10000个临时发往武汉的口罩。
10000 temporary masks sent to Wuhan.
吴呈杰。
Wu Chengjie.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
几位口罩行业的从业者，都是在大量微信、电话疯狂轰炸的间歇，接受我们采访的。
Several mask industry practitioners, are in a large number of micro-letters, telephone frenzied bombing interval, we were interviewed.
所有人的语速都异常急促——在过去的一周时间内，他们接过工信部、各地应急办、市级政府的电话；也接过各省医院、药店、大小代理商的电话；还有从未打过交道的，阿里巴巴、抖音等大型互联网公司的急迫需求——“你们有没有100万只？”“我们要买过来捐武汉！”“我们平时开足马力，一天能生产10万只以上。
Everybody spoke at a breakneck pace - they got calls from the ministry, emergency offices and city governments over the past week; they also got calls from hospitals, pharmacies, big and small agencies in the provinces; and the urgent need of big internet companies like Alibaba and Chatter who have never dealt with each other - "Do you have a million?
”宗光辉是广州一家口罩厂家的总经理，他所在的中康防护用品科技有限公司平时有几十号工人。
Shining is the general manager of a mask manufacturer in Guangzhou, where his company usually has dozens of workers.
他们生产的KN95型号口罩，是本次疫情中被疯抢最热的型号之一。
The KN95 mask they produced was one of the hottest models of the epidemic.
KN95是中国标准，N95是美国标准，两个型号的口罩都能在对应标准下，达到95%的过滤效率。
KN95 is a Chinese standard and N95 is an American standard, with both types of masks achieving a 95% filtering efficiency under the corresponding standards.
平时除了防雾霾，这种口罩大多作为劳保产品，给水泥厂工人、装修工等职业在粉尘环境下佩戴。
Usually in addition to fog-proof haze, most of these masks as labor protection products, cement factory workers, assemblers and other occupations in dust environment wear.
普通的KN95口罩并不是医用采购对象，宗光辉告诉我们，全国能生产KN95的口罩厂家分散在不同省份，大约有上百家。
Ordinary KN95 masks weren't for medical purchases, Shining told us that KN95 mask manufacturers nationwide were scattered in different provinces, numbering about a hundred.
然而正值春节，工人放假，宗光辉给核心工人支付机票，陆陆续续从河南等北方省份，召唤回十几位工人，现在每天的产能刚刚恢复到4、5万只。
However, the Spring Festival, workers holiday, living in glory to pay for the core workers, gradually from Henan Province and other northern provinces, called back a dozen workers, the capacity is just restored to 40,000 to 50,000 a day.
口罩的原料是熔喷、无纺布、热风棉、以及呼吸阀、耳带、鼻梁条、海绵条等配件，这些材料的厂商也在全国各地，面临物流中断的窘境。
The mask is made of fusible spray, non-woven cloth, hot air cotton, and accessories such as respirators, ear straps, nose straps and sponges. The manufacturers of these materials are also facing logistical disruptions throughout the country.
从大年初二开始，宗光辉的厂子开始从江苏等地，直接约大卡车拉材料，以免工厂停工。
From the beginning of New Year's Day, living in brilliant factory began from Jiangsu and other places, directly about large trucks pull materials, so as not to stop the factory.
工人三倍工资，所有的材料都在涨价，“天津泰达不是做熔喷吗，你看他股票都涨了好多涨停板了。
Workers triple wages, all the materials are rising, "Tian Zintai do not do spray, you see his stock has increased a lot of trading board.
”口罩的成本不可避免地翻了一两番，从1块多涨到两三块钱，不同质量的产品涨幅也不同。
The cost of masks inevitably quadrupled, from $1 to $2 or $3, with products of different quality rising differently.
好消息是，宗光辉看到新闻，工信部等部门已经到原材料企业视察，一是管控价格，二是优先调配。
The good news is that Shining saw the news, the Ministry of Industry and Communications and other departments have visited raw materials enterprises, one is to control prices, the other is to prioritize deployment.
长期看，不会涨得太离谱了。
In the long run, it won't go too far.
“我们也要尽一点责任嘛。
"We must do our part, too.
”大年初二刚开机，宗光辉抽出来几千个产品，打算免费捐送给武汉的医院。
"New Year's Day just turned on, living in glory out of thousands of products, intended to donate free of charge to Wuhan hospitals.
此前发送库存，也以湖北十堰、武汉等地优先。
Prior to sending inventory, Hubei Shiyan, Wuhan and other places of priority.
但他依然担心，中国有十几亿人口，口罩是个快速消耗品，眼下的巨大缺口还远远没有解除。
But he remains concerned that with a billion people in China and a fast-moving supply of face masks, the huge gap is far from over.
我们还采访了一位叫小雨（化名）的25岁女孩，她是一位口罩代理商，也是一家互联网医疗公司的负责人。
We also interviewed a 25-year-old girl named Xiaoyu (not her real name), a mask agent and head of an Internet medical company.
今年春节她原本带着家人到三亚度假，没想到抱着手机，每天处理几百条调配信息，度过了不眠不休的除夕和大年初一。
She originally took her family on holiday to Sanya this Spring Festival, did not expect to hold mobile phones, hundreds of daily information deployment, spent sleepless New Year's Eve and New Year's Day.
两天内，小雨调配了超过1万个口罩发往武汉，其中有1000余个免费捐赠给医院，“这是一种责无旁贷的选择，账总是能补得回来，人命没了就是没了啊。
In two days, light rain deployed more than 10,000 masks to Wuhan, more than 1,000 of which donated to hospitals free of charge, "this is an unavoidable choice, the accounts can always be made up, the loss of human life is no ah.
”以下是小雨的口述——···············❶“我们就在行业里的都没有消息”我叫小雨，今年25岁，是一家叫中科贝思达的国产口罩零售端的总代理。
The following is Xiaoyu's dictation -... "We have no news in the industry." My name is Xiaoyu, 25, the general agent at the retail end of a Chinese-made mask called Middle Kobesida.
我们主要销售三种口罩：纳米纤维KN97级别、纳米纤维KN95级别和工业KN95级别的口罩，有自己的线上零售平台。
We mainly sell three kinds of masks: nano-fiber KN97 grade, nano-fiber KN95 grade and industrial KN95 level mask, and have their own online retail platform.
我们的公司在成都，口罩工厂在厦门，是厦门最大的口罩生产企业。
Our company in Chengdu, mask factory in Xiamen, Xiamen is the largest mask production enterprises.
1月20号，我们厂家的工人已经回家过年了，只剩下一些办公室的人还在上班。
On January 20th, the workers from our factory have been home for the New Year. Only some people in the office are still at work.
1月21号，工厂突然接到了沿海某市市政府5万口罩的单子，当时厂里的库存不到10万个，一下就买走了一半。
On January 21, the factory suddenly received a list of 50,000 masks from a coastal city government. At that time, the factory had less than 100,000 in stock, and immediately bought half of them.
当晚各种途径又销售出去几万单，一天之内，库存就只剩下几千个。
Tens of thousands more were sold that night, leaving only a few thousand in one day.
结果两天后，1月23号，相关部门又下了订单——这次是数百万个。
As a result, two days later, on January 23rd, orders were placed - this time for millions.
那时候政府已经意识到疫情的严重性了，有市委的人来到我们工厂督战。
By then the government was aware of the severity of the epidemic, and city officials came to our factory to supervise the war.
我们工厂本来打算发完此前的单子，下午2点就彻底锁大门了，但市委要求一定不能关，可眼下谁都没办法：厂里面没有工人了，根本没有办法生产。
Our factory had intended to send out the previous order and had completely locked the door at 2: 00 p.m., but the city council demanded that it not be shut, but no one could do anything about it at the moment: there were no workers in the factory and there was no way to produce them.
最后谈的结果是，让我们初五就恢复上班，年后第一批货给他们。
As a result of the last talk, let's get back to work on the fifth day of junior high and deliver the first batch to them.
那批货是20万个口罩。
That's 200,000 masks.
这次疫情前期的信息太少了，我们医疗行业的人也聊过武汉新型冠状病毒的新闻，行业内完全没想到会在春节爆发，春节又是人员流动大、物资匮乏的时候。
The medical profession has talked about the news of the new coronavirus in Wuhan. Little did the industry expect the Spring Festival to break out and the Spring Festival will be a time of great mobility and material shortages.
我们零售商手里的囤货也不多，一般囤个几千就了不起了，卖完了再进，导致全线很快就断货了。
Our retailers don't have much stock, and hoard a few thousand dollars is great. When we sell it out, we run out of stock quickly.
但凡早一两天告诉我们，比如20号或者19号，那时候还没放假，我们还能想办法，看看能不能留下一部分工人。
But if you tell us a day or two early, like the 20th or 19th, when the holidays are not over, we can try and see if we can keep some of the workers.
现在你要想把别人劝回来，那是很难的，也不能说不让人家过年吧？像河南就做的很好，20号就有经销商找到我，采购了1万个口罩，21号我就给他们出货了。
Now if you want to persuade people back, it is very difficult, can not say do not let people New Year, like Henan do very well, I have a dealer found me on the 20th, bought 10,000 masks, 21 I shipped them.
那时候河南还没有确诊病例，老百姓层面已经开始高度戒备，我觉得是值得全国人民学习的。
At that time, Henan has not confirmed the case, the level of the common people has begun to be on high alert, I think it is worth learning.
❷两种人1月22号是个分水岭。
The two kinds of people are a watershed on January 22nd.
22号之前，我看行业内都在正常售卖，我们自己生产的口罩零售价格没变，批发微涨了大概10%——要调派员工飞到厦门去发货，还要再算上加班的三倍工资。
Before the 22nd, I saw that there were regular sales in the industry, that the retail price of our own masks had not changed, and that the wholesale price had risen slightly by about 10% - employees had to be flown to Xiamen to deliver the products, plus three times the salary for overtime.
22号之后，这个行业内就分出来两批人，一批人疯狂涨价。
22, the industry will be divided into two groups, a group of crazy price increases.
1月23号，我想去调一些口罩给武汉的医院，那口罩平时的批发价就1到2块，我问了其他经销商的价格，一听批发价15块一个，我都吐血了。
January 23, I would like to go to Wuhan hospital to adjust some masks, the usual wholesale price of one or two, I asked other dealers prices, a listen of wholesale prices 15 dollars, I spat blood.
我们想做点好事，也不用这么坑我的吧？发国难财的真的挺多的。
We want to do something good, do not have to pit me like this? The country is really difficult to make a lot of money.
而且很多消费者分不清口罩的型号，以为样子相似就都是高级口罩。
And many consumers can't tell the type of face mask from the other, thinking it looks like a high-level mask.
很多防粉尘、防花粉的工业口罩，平时卖1.5-3块，那几天趁乱跟高级纳米纤维防雾霾、防病毒的口罩一样，都卖到了30、50块钱。
Many anti-dust, anti-pollen industrial masks, usually sold 1.5-3, those days with advanced nano-fiber haze, anti-virus mask, the same sales of 30, 50 yuan.
后来淘宝出台了禁止涨价的规定，但肯定防不完的，很多是口罩不涨价，涨运费。
Taobao later issued a ban on price increases, but certainly can not prevent the end, many are not raising the price of masks, rising freight rates.
线下店更不好管了，连锁店可能还好，越小的店、夫妻店就越不好管。
Offline stores are more difficult to manage, chain stores may be good, the smaller the store, the more difficult it is to manage the store.
我想不通怎么会有人去赚这种钱。
I can't figure out how anyone can make such money.
口罩每天都要换，疫情又必定要持续一段时间，如果这个家庭月收入很低，戴一个月口罩都要花一两千块钱，这不是不让别人生活了吗？另一批人是疯狂捐赠。
If the family's monthly income is low and it costs a month or two to wear a mask, isn't that to keep others from living? Another group is making donations crazily.
23号早上，我起床后刷到很多视频，看到患者在医院门口哭，说“我也发烧了，你救救我”，还有医护人员情绪崩溃的视频，我一下懵了。
On the morning of the 23rd, I got up and brushed many videos. I saw the patients crying in front of the hospital, saying, "I have a fever, you save me," and the video of the collapse of the medical staff, I was stunned.
当时另一个股东在我身边，我问他能不能捐赠，他直接答应了，我又去征求另一个股东、运营总监和技术总监的同意。
Another shareholder was at my side, and I asked him if he could donate, and he said yes, and I asked another shareholder, the Operations Director, and the Technical Director to agree.
我说这是一种责无旁贷的选择，以后有的是赚钱的机会，没必要非赚这一笔。
I said that this is an unavoidable choice, there will be some money-making opportunities, there is no need to earn this money.
底下的员工我也不敢和他们商量，就直接在群里@大家：员工也很支持，没人提加班工资，也没人说怕公司利润受损，影响自己的奖金。
I do not dare to discuss with the staff below, directly in the group @ Everybody: employees are also very supportive, no one said overtime pay, no one said that fear of corporate profits loss, affect their bonus.
这两天我们一直在退单， 把年前发了一半的货半路修改配送地，改派给急需的各地医院，也给武汉捐赠了一大批。
In the past two days, we have been returning bills, reassigning half of the goods delivered half way through the year to badly needed hospitals, and donating a large number of donations to Wuhan.
刚才你联系我的时候，我才把最后一批处理好，把一批货转回到我们仓库，再安排发货。
Just now, when you contacted me, I handled the last batch, transferred a shipment back to our warehouse and arranged for delivery.
我一直在担心会不会被客户骂，只能厚着脸皮去要，但大部分人还是很好商量的。
I've been worried about being scolded by my clients and have to be brazen about asking for it, but most of them are still very open-minded.
我们给客户看发去武汉的顺丰单号，他们都表示理解。
We sent customers to Wuhan Shunfeng Shan number, they all expressed understanding.
有些人会说，那你把年后第一批给我们，相当于双方各退一步。
Some would say that you would give us the first batch in a year's time, a step back from each other.
顺丰可以修改配送地，像转发给武汉的货，一批货三四十箱，省外配送费得一千多。
Shunfeng can modify the distribution site, such as forward to Wuhan goods, a shipment of 30 and 40 cases, the cost of extra-provincial distribution more than 1000.
几千块上万肯定是花了的，但现在不是计较这个的时候。
Thousands of dollars must have been spent, but this is not the time to worry about it.
转卖给外地医院或者经销商的口罩，我们都按照正常的价格给他们，发去武汉几家医院的口罩主要是捐赠，朋友还笑我，你口罩要是像其他商家涨到十几块去卖，你不就别墅靠海了？到现在我都没算过损失了多少利润，只要公司不彻底亏损，还是应该去做这么一点事情。
We send masks to hospitals in Wuhan mainly for donation. My friends laugh at me. If your mask goes up to a dozen dollars like other businesses, you won't be near the sea.
相比大多数工薪阶层，我们更有这个能力。
We have more ability than most salaried people.
账总是能补得回来，人命没了就是没了啊。
Accounts can always be made up for, the loss of life is no ah.
❸“去哪儿都找不到”到现在，我们一共往武汉发了超过1万个口罩。
To date, we have sent more than 10,000 masks to Wuhan.
看到各医院的捐赠公告时，我们手头已经没多少货了，就给武汉市第一人民医院捐赠了500个，给荆州市胸科医院捐赠了500个。
Seeing the announcement of donation from hospitals, we had no more goods on hand, so we donated 500 to Wuhan First People's Hospital and 500 to Jingzhou Chest Hospital.
成都发了5000个，也准备给华西医院捐赠一批。
Chengdu issued 5000, also ready to donate a batch to Huaxi Hospital.
成都毕竟病患还比较少，也够他们稍微撑一撑了。
Chengdu, after all, is still relatively few patients, but also enough to support them a little.
年后我们打算以500个口罩为单位，继续捐赠。
We plan to continue donating 500 face masks after 2000.
医院用不了带阀的，会交叉感染，我们就把没有阀门的寄给医院，有阀的给前线的其他人，比如量体温的、输送物流的工作人员、警察。
Hospitals can't use valves, they can cross-infect, and we send those that don't have valves to hospitals, to other people on the front lines, like body temperature, logistics workers, police.
前线那些大多是通过淘宝主动联系到我们，上网看哪些KN95口罩还有货，说明他们的自救能力比较强。
Most of the front-line through Taobao contact us, online to see which KN95 masks are still in stock, indicating that their self-help ability is relatively strong.
我们厂家能做的是口罩，像防护服、护目镜都需要别的厂去做，但前线同样很缺。
What we can make is masks, like protective clothing, goggles need to be done by other factories, but the front line is also very short.
我们公司做互联网医疗，有一些其他的合作商，最紧急的时候，我们往武汉调过泳镜，也能起差不多的效果。
Our company does Internet medicine, there are a number of other partners, the most urgent time, we have to Wuhan to adjust the swimming mirror, can have similar effect.
包括一些不太符合医用标准的手套、消毒水，当地药房还是需要，我们就都给调过去了。
Including some gloves, disinfectant water that do not meet medical standards, local pharmacies or need, we were all transferred.
现在最缺的还是防护服，防护服大部分是一次性的，只能穿四小时，据我了解，武汉的医生很多已经穿好几天了。
The most missing is protective clothing, most of which is disposable, can only last four hours, according to my understanding, Wuhan many doctors have been wearing for several days.
防护服一旦有破洞或磨损，对医生的损伤是非常大的。
Once the protective clothing has broken holes or wear, the damage to the doctor is very large.
1月22号，我们往武汉发了一批口罩，23号上午10点，武汉就封城了。
On January 22, we sent a batch of masks to Wuhan. Wuhan was closed at 10 a.m. on January 23rd.
顺丰的飞机飞不了了，就只能改陆运，顺丰联系我们，我们说不管多少天能送到，你都得送。
Shunfeng's aircraft can not fly, only to land transport, Shunfeng contact us, we said no matter how many days you can deliver, you have to send.
24号晚上，这批口罩到了武汉，再拿去二次消毒，最快也得到25号或者26号投入使用。
On the night of the 24th, the masks arrived in Wuhan, where they were re-sterilized and put into use as soon as they were on the 25th or 26th.
中间是有个时间差的，到这两天武汉的物资还短缺，前两天就更不敢想了。
In the middle there is a time difference, to the last two days Wuhan material shortage, the first two days even more afraid to think.
我们现在基本上已经没货了。
We're almost out of stock now.
1月25号，有个厦门的卫生医院在挨家挨户上门测体温时，发现了一名疑似病例，但那时候他们所有医护人员都没有口罩。
On January 25, a Xiamen health hospital found a suspected case of fever from door to door, but none of its staff had masks at the time.
他们就很急地来问我采购，我只能把成都仓库还剩的200只发过去。
They came to me very quickly to ask me to purchase, I can only Chengdu warehouse to the remaining 200 to the past.
这两天顺丰的武汉空运恢复，应该有很多厂商、企业都开始往武汉寄物资了，中央也在发物资，这两天应该会好很多。
The two days of Wuhan Shun Fengfeng resumption of air transport, should have a lot of manufacturers, enterprises began to send materials to Wuhan, the central government is also in the distribution of materials, these two days should be much better.
不过我担心的是，春节工厂都放十多天假，大部分的厂子都没有工人，最早也要等初七才上班。
However, I am afraid that the factory will have more than 10 days of vacation, most of the factory workers, the earliest also wait until the seventh day of junior high school.
像口罩开工后加上包装、运送，中间又有两三天时间差，这就是有10天左右的生产缺口，我现在特别担心这10天的时间差。
I'm particularly worried about the 10-day gap between packing and shipping when the mask starts, and two or three days between now and then.
我们现在在泰国订到了1000盒医用口罩，希望能送到武汉。
We have ordered 1000 boxes of medical masks in Thailand now and hope they can be delivered to Wuhan.
现在也遇到了一些困难，捐赠机构要求对方出示营业执照、生产许可证、质检标准等等，泰国那边邮件回复比较慢，电话沟通他们英语也不好。
Some difficulties have been encountered, with donors demanding business licenses, production licenses, quality standards, etc. Thais have been slow to respond to emails and poor communication over the phone in English.
但我们必须得走这些流程，要对物资负责，不合格的物资对前线来说没用。
But we have to go through these processes, we have to be responsible for the materials, unqualified supplies to the front line is useless.
我们还有些口罩做出来了，但找不到人来包装。
We had some masks made, but we couldn't find anyone to wrap them.
我和员工说我好着急，梦里都在包口罩，希望自己能拥有这项技术。
I told the staff that I was worried. I was wearing a mask in my dream and wanted to own the technology.
除此之外也没有其它办法了，只能等。
There is no other alternative but to wait.
❹“疫情得不到控制的话，全国哪里都逃不掉”我17号带全家来三亚度假，结果20号拿上手机到现在，根本停不下来，我妈抱怨我不陪她。
"If the disease is not under control, the country can not escape anywhere." I took my family to Sanya on holiday on the 17th, and now I can not stop to take the mobile phone on the 20th, my mother complained that I did not accompany her.
确实挺内疚的，平时工作很忙，本来一年就只能带他们出去玩个一两次。
Really quite guilty, usually very busy work, originally can only take them out to play once or twice a year.
到除夕的晚上稍微缓过一点气来，客户休息了，顺丰小哥休息了，我也不好意思催他们了。
By New Year's Eve a little bit slow down a bit, the customer rest, Shunfeng younger brother rest, I am also ashamed to rush them.
因为家里人有在疾控系统的，那时说“疫情好像有点升温”，也只是圈内人聊着玩儿。
Because the family has in the disease control system, then said "the outbreak seems to warm up a bit", but also the inner circle of people to play.
我就带了10个KN95的口罩去三亚，当时想的是过年之后回成都用。
I took 10 KN95 masks to Sanya and thought about returning to Chengdu after the Spring Festival.
我们一家五口，出去玩了两天，10个口罩就全用完了。
Our family of five went out to play for two days and ran out of 10 masks.
这几天我小区都没出过，在小区里看到路人，都互相退半米，我怕他，他也怕我。
In these days my neighborhood has not been out, in the community to see passers-by, are all half meters back, I am afraid of him, he is afraid of me.
现在我就在等员工给我寄的口罩送到了，也许就可以出门了。
Now I'm waiting for my mask to arrive, and I may be ready to go out.
我也让我的员工都把机票退了，在家办公，反正办公室空着就空着，每天写日报就好。
I also asked all my employees to return their tickets and work from home. Anyway, the office is empty and I would like to write a daily newspaper every day.
我也呼吁大家要减少出行，尽量待在家。
I also appeal to everyone to travel less and stay at home as much as possible.
之后我回到成都，也会把自己隔离个14天。
Then I would go back to Chengdu and isolate myself for 14 days.
除夕那天，我发了条朋友圈，附上了很多医院的捐赠公告，底下我评论了一条，说希望大家跟我们一样捐。
On New Year's Eve, I sent out a circle of friends with announcements of donations from many hospitals.
我本意是想让员工看看，不要怪我，大家都在这么做。
I meant to show it to the staff. Don't blame me. Everybody's doing it.
没想到我朋友圈里的医疗同行，真的有两家这么做了。
I did not expect my friends in the community of medical colleagues, really two do so.
所以我想，我也能影响一下身边的企业。
So I think, I can also influence around the enterprise.
普通人想要捐赠物资的话，我建议还是找腾讯、阿里这样大的互联网企业的捐赠渠道，政府会监督他们。
If ordinary people want to donate, I suggest looking for a donation channel for a company as big as Tencent and Ali, and the government will monitor them.
微博上好多人也没几个粉丝，主页挂着一个“捐赠”，这种还是要警惕一点。
Many people on Weibo also have few fans, with a "donation" on their homepage, so be wary of it.
我是成都人，2008年汶川地震的时候，我妈被派到了北川前线。
I am Chengdu, Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, my mother was sent to the front of Beichuan.
她不是一线医护，但她是学医的，人手不够，就也被征调了。
She was not a front-line care provider, but she was a medical student, understaffed, and was called in.
地震那几天手机不通，卫星电话只能两三天打一次，一有余震，说北川又垮了多少房，我们家里人就特别担心。
The days after the earthquake cell phones were not available, satellite phones can only be called once every two or three days, one aftershock, said Beichuan how many rooms collapsed, our family is particularly worried.
2008年我才上初中，但当时就感觉“一方有难，八方相助”。
I only went to junior high school in 2008, but then I felt "one side has difficulty, eight sides help."
这种事情就是应该大家一起扛过去。
This is the kind of thing we should do together.
像这一次，我也觉得我们应该站出来。
Like this one, I think we should stand up.
这次和地震还不一样，如果我们不站出来，疫情得不到控制的话，那全国哪里都逃不掉。
This time is not the same as the earthquake, if we do not stand out, the epidemic is not controlled, then the whole country can not escape.
疫情期间，我们联合“爱与生命”整理了一份实时更新的官方信息、防护措施、援助渠道汇总。
During the outbreak, we worked with Love and Life to compile an up-to-date list of official information, protective measures, and aid channels.
您可以划至文末点击阅读原文，即可查看实时更新的疫情相关信息。
You can browse to the end of the article to read the original text to see real-time updates on the epidemic information.
让我们一起加油努力！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：吴呈杰编辑：刘敏运营编辑：二水部分配图由采访对象提供。
Let's cheer up! In the public backstage reply to eggs, send you a colorful egg writing: Wu Chengjie editor: Liu Min-operation editor: Ershui part of the map by the interviewee.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
10000个临时发往武汉的口罩。
10000 temporary masks sent to Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "10000个临时发往武汉的口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 10,000 temporary masks & quot; & quot; sent to Wuhan temporarily.
var msg_desc = "“这是一种责无旁贷的选择，账总是能补得回来，人命没了就是没了啊。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "It was an unavoidable choice, always paid for, lost."
”";。
";;
title: '一份实时更新的新冠肺炎防护援助指南（官方信息、防护措施、援助渠道汇总）',。
A real-time update of its New Crown Pneumonia protection assistance guide (official information, protective measures, and a summary of aid channels) & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
