武汉封城后的宠物营救计划：人类犯错的后果，不该由它们承担。
Wuhan after the Pet Rescue Plan: the consequences of human error, should not be borne by them.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
武汉封城，已有10日。
Wuhan has been closed, has 10 days.
近900万人滞留在城内，本地人蜗居在家不敢出门，外地人在陌生的城市里寻找住处，而同样滞留的，还有独居空房等待主人归来的宠物。
Nearly 9 million people remain in the city, locals cower at home, outsiders seek shelter in strange cities, and so do pets who live alone in empty houses awaiting the return of their owners.
在“自救”的同时，人们也在积极营救宠物。
In the "self-help", people are also actively rescue pets.
李考拉是一个25岁的武汉女生，从2017年年底到现在，她帮助700多只流浪猫找到了新主人，还因为家里猫太多被爸妈嫌弃，搬出来单住。
Li, a 25-year-old Wuhan schoolgirl, has helped more than 700 stray cats find new owners since late 2017, and has moved out into separate quarters because so many cats are rejected by their parents.
疫情来临后，她接收了30多只寄养猫咪，和爸妈一起跨越大半个武汉上门喂养独居猫咪，为不敢出门采购的猫主人配送猫粮。
After the outbreak, she received more than 30 foster cats, with their parents across the majority of Wuhan door-to-door feeding cats, for owners afraid to go shopping cat food distribution.
值得注意的是，目前出现了少量宠物主因担心宠物会传染新型冠状病毒，因此将宠物遗弃、伤害。
It is worth noting that there are a small number of pet owners worried that pets will infect the new coronavirus, so pet abandonment, injury.
对此，世界卫生组织已迅速做出反应出面辟谣，目前没有证据显示猫狗等宠物会感染新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）。
In response, the World Health Organization has responded quickly to deny rumors that pets such as cats and dogs are infected with the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV).
在此，我们也呼吁大家能够尊重、保护宠物的生存权。
Here, we also appeal to you to respect and protect the right to life of pets.
人类犯错的后果，不该由它们承担。
The consequences of human error should not be borne by them.
···············❶60平，30只我今年25岁，武汉人，现在是一名初中老师。
[/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red] [/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red]
2017年，我刚刚大学毕业，想自己养流浪狗，就接触到了流浪动物救助的团体，大概是在年底收养了第一只流浪猫。
As soon as I graduated from college in 2017 and wanted to raise my own stray dog, I came into contact with a homeless animal support group, probably adopting the first stray cat by the end of the year.
其实我最开始很不喜欢猫，从小就特别害怕，觉得猫爪子特别吓人。
In fact, I did not like cats at the beginning, especially afraid from childhood, feel that cat claws are particularly scary.
可是当时在下大雪，猫猫在外面腿也瘸了，眼睛也瞎了，就觉得它很可怜，打算把它在家里关两个星期后放走，没有想到要养，只是想帮它把冬天给度过去。
But it was snowing heavily, and the cat, lame on the outside and blind in the eye, felt sorry for her, and decided to keep her at home for two weeks before she thought of having anything to eat, but to help her through the winter.
我一开始是跟猫不接触的，把它关在阳台，隔两天去喂水，喂猫粮。
At first I didn't touch the cat. I shut it off on the balcony and fed water and cat food every two days.
关了两个星期，我就发现猫很好养很爱干净，也开始喜欢养猫了。
After two weeks of confinement, I found the cat was very well cared for and became fond of cats.
后来我又收养了一只怀孕的母猫，就想到要做流浪猫的救助。
Then I adopted a pregnant female cat and thought of doing the rescue of stray cats.
本来我没想过做猫咪寄养，是因为救助了猫咪，给它们找主人，很多主人过年不在武汉，就会问我，能不能把猫放到我这里来。
Originally I did not want to do cat foster care, because of the rescue cats, to find their owners, many owners are not in Wuhan, will ask me, can put the cat here.
他们是找我领养的，所以放我这里比较安心。
They're looking for me for adoption, so it's easier to put me here.
我就买了一个猫咪柜，柜子里是小单间，一个单间里住一只猫。
I bought a cat cupboard with a small compartment and a cat in a single room.
起初只接了8只猫，柜子里可以放6只，外面还可以散养两只，寄养到1月31号，每只猫50块钱一天。
At first, there were only eight cats, six in the cupboard, and two outside for foster care until January 31, at $50 a day for each cat.
1月23号，“封城”毫无征兆地到来，武汉市内交通停摆、离汉通道关闭。
January 23, the "closure" of the city came without warning, Wuhan city traffic stop, the Han channel closed.
很多人来咨询我寄养，一开始我会都拒绝了，因为我要保证家里猫猫的安全，猫猫是应激性的，如果受了惊吓，是会把自己吓死的，我也不能收养太多只。
A lot of people came to my foster care, and I turned it down at first because I wanted to make sure my cat was safe, the cat was stressed and would scare myself to death, and I couldn't adopt too many.
有个人找我想寄养，他也是在我这里领养了猫。
A man came to me for foster care, and he adopted a cat with me.
那个小猫猫刚送出去一两个星期，大概才三个月。
The kitten had been out for a week or two, about three months.
猫主人已经回老家过年了，他之前给了我钥匙，让我帮忙上门喂养。
Cat owner has returned home for the New Year, he had given me the keys, let me help feed door-to-door.
没有想到封城了，也不知道会封到什么时候，封城那么多天，小猫猫害怕了可能会应激死掉。
Did not think of the closure of the city, do not know when, the closure of the city for so many days, cat fear may be stressed to die.
我想着好不容易给它找到了领养，让它从流浪的猫变成了享福的猫，不能不帮帮它，就接到我家来了。
I thought I'd find him an adopter and turn him from a stray cat into a happy cat. I had to help him, so I got him from my house.
反正每天睡觉之前我都会想好，第二天不能再做这些事情了，但是第二天一醒，又在做这些事情。
I thought about it before I went to bed every day, and I couldn't do it again the next day, but I woke up the next day and did it again.
别人找你也是信任你，一开始想放弃是非常容易的事情，但现在我的微信上已经有很多人了，关于动物的一点风吹草动，都会有很多人来找我，所以想放弃也没法放弃了。
Other people look for you is trust you, at the beginning want to give up is very easy things, but now I have a lot of people on the micro-letters, about animals, will be a lot of people will come to me, so want to give up can not give up.
现在家里已经寄养了30多只猫。
There are now more than 30 cats in the family.
之前救助流浪猫的时候，家里也有过这么多猫，但总有猫被领走，不会每天都这么多。
Before the rescue of stray cats, there have been so many cats, but always cat was taken away, not so much every day.
有的猫运气好，刚捡回来，就被领养了。
Some cats were lucky enough to be adopted as soon as they picked them up.
我家只有60平，现在却住了我和30多只猫咪。
My home is only 60 flat, but now I live with more than 30 cats.
每天铲屎的时候，我都会让猫出来放风，但因为地方小，只能一只只地放。
Every day when I shovel the excrement, I will let the cat out of the wind, but because of the small space, can only put one.
刚开始的时候猫会叫，但现在只有看到我的时候才会叫。
At first the cat barked, but now it barks only when it sees me.
晚上我睡觉的时候，大家也安静了，只有发情了的会叫。
When I go to bed at night, everyone is quiet, and only those who are passionate will scream.
头几天我被吵得睡不着，但过了这么多天，我也习惯了。
I was kept awake for the first few days, but after so many days, I got used to it.
因为有养在柜子外面的猫，每天早上起来，家里都是一片狼藉，桌子上的所有东西都在地上。
With the cat outside the cupboard, the house was in a mess every morning and everything on the table was on the floor.
但是我不生气，因为它们是猫，不是人，不是故意的。
But I am not angry, because they are cats, not people, not intentional.
寄养的猫吃的是主人带过来的猫粮。
The foster cat ate cat food brought in by its owner.
每只猫吃的都不一样，但因为“封城”，再加上寄养是把猫关在猫咪柜里，猫吃的变多了，现在大家的猫粮差不多都吃完了。
Every cat eats differently, but now everyone has nearly run out of cat food because of the "closure" and the fact that foster care keeps cats in the cat's cupboard.
疫情来临之前，我囤了很多倍内菲猫粮，当时只是因为便宜，六千块可以买二十几包。
Before the outbreak hit, I hoarded a lot of beanefir food, then just because it was cheap, six thousand dollars could buy twenty bags.
现在封城了，家里至少要吃十几种猫粮，采购很不方便。
Now the closure of the city, at least to eat at least a dozen cat food, procurement is very inconvenient.
1月29号，我给主人们发了通知，在各自的猫粮吃光后免费提供倍内菲猫粮。
On January 29th, I sent a notice to the owners to provide free mealtimes after their cat food had been eaten.
猫砂也要省着用。
Cat sand should also be used sparingly.
以前我给每只猫会铺3-5厘米厚的猫砂，但是现在我只能铺一两厘米。
I used to give each cat 3 to 5 centimeters of cat litter, but now I can only spread it a centimeter or two.
即使这样用得还是很快，沙发上已经摆满了猫砂的空袋子。
Even so, the sofa was filled with empty bags of cat litter.
现在寄养价格很贵，黑心的宠物店已经涨到了一天200块，均价也基本上是100块一只猫。
Foster care is expensive now, the black heart of the pet shop has grown to 200 dollars a day, the average price is basically 100 dollars a cat.
但是我没有涨价，两只猫一起寄养的也只加10块，不想因为钱的事伤了感情。
But I did not increase the price, the two cats together foster care with only 10, do not want to hurt the money because of the feelings.
这几天还有不想养猫了的人到我这来找新主人，我估计是因为担心封城太久，交不起寄养费，索性就不要了。
These days people who do not want to have a cat came to me to find a new owner, I guess because of fear of sealing the city too long, can not pay foster care fees, simply do not.
但现在我也找不到想养猫的人，就算有人想领养，也不敢出门。
But right now I can't find anyone who wants to have a cat, and even if someone wants to adopt, they won't go out.
我只能走温情路线，劝想弃养的人先留着猫。
All I could do was take the gentle route and persuade the abandoned to keep their cats first.
对在我家寄养的猫，我也已经做好了最坏的打算。
I had prepared for the worst for the cat in my foster home.
可能有主人交不起钱、短时间不交钱，甚至最后连猫都不要。
There may be owners who cannot afford to pay, who do not pay for a short period of time, even finally do not even cats.
我会好好养着它们的，但我不希望发生这样的事情。
I'll keep them well, but I don't want that to happen.
我已经和这30多只猫产生感情了。
I've had an affair with more than 30 cats.
猫咪们刚开始都很害怕我，我一靠近它们，它们就冲我哈气，但现在已经会冲我撒娇了。
The cats were afraid of me at first. As soon as I got close to them, they blew on me, but now they will act like a spoiled brat to me.
我铲屎的时候，它们喜欢扒拉我，我会趁这个机会检查它们的爪子，如果指甲长了，我就给它们修剪。
When I shovel dirt, they like to pick me up. I take this opportunity to check their claws, and if they grow, I trim them.
看着它们从躲着我到亲近我，我感觉挺暖心的。
Watching them from hiding from me to getting close to me, I feel very warm.
在解决猫猫问题的同时，我还自己掏钱捐了6000个口罩，找厂家去对接，大概跑了100多公里才把口罩拿到。
While solving the cat problem, I donated 6000 masks at my own expense and asked the manufacturer to dock them. It took me about 100 kilometers to get the mask.
我不是只关心动物，我也关心人。
I don't care about animals. I care about people.
可能也有些人会说“人的生命比猫重要”什么的，如果在平常的话，这是不负责任的表现，但是在灾难面前你怎么选，我没办法去指责你。
Perhaps some people will say that "human life is more important than cats," if in normal times, this is irresponsible performance, but in the face of disaster how you choose, I can not blame you.
李考拉家的寄养猫咪，图片由受访者提供❷3天，19只疫情还不严重的时候，我接了19家上门喂养，就是给主人不在家的猫咪喂食、铲屎，50块一次。
Pictures of a foster cat in the Koala family were provided by the respondents for 3 days. When 19 cases were not serious, I took 19 home-feeding items, including feeding and shoveling faeces for cats whose owners were not at home.
我住在青山区，这19家有在江岸区的，有在江夏区的，最远的离我家40多公里。
I live in the Qingshan area, these 19 in the river area, some in the Jiangxia area, the farthest away from my home more than 40 kilometers.
封城那天，我打算去喂猫，我妈不想让我去。
I was going to feed the cat that day. My mother didn't want me to go.
她问我，能不能不去？都封城了，说明疫情很严重，我收的喂养费还抵不上开车过去的油钱。
She asked me if I could go or not? It was a sign of the severity of the epidemic that I didn't charge enough to drive past the gas.
可我已经答应别人了，要言而有信。
But I've promised to keep my word.
猫就像人一样，如果没有补给的话，待两三天就不舒服了。
A cat is like a human being. If you don't have supplies, you won't feel well for two or three days.
毕业后我在外面租了个房子，后来搬回家，我妈看我猫太多了，又把我赶出来了。
After graduation I rented a house outside and moved home. My mother saw that I had too many cats and drove me out again.
今年过年，我是和父母分开住的，家里猫太多了，每天都要做两次清洁，所以要在这边住。
This New Year, I live separately from my parents. There are too many cats in our house. I have to clean them twice a day, so I want to live here.
我爸妈对收养动物的态度，从非常抗拒，转变到有一点点支持我。
My parents' attitude toward adopting animals has shifted from being very resistant to giving me a little support.
我第一次感觉到他们态度的变化，是我没有经过爸妈同意，直接往家里放了四条小狗。
For the first time I felt a change in their attitude. I put four puppies directly into my house without my parents' permission.
我妈说家里就这么大一点，你还要放狗，我说外面在下雨，如果狗狗不放回来的话，可能就死了。
My mother said the house is so big, you have to let the dog, I said it is raining outside, if the dog does not put back, may die.
我妈说那好吧，限你一个星期之内把领养找到，不准没送出去又把新的带回来。
My mom said all right, you have a week to find the adoption, not to send it out and bring the new one back.
送出去那一天，我把狗送到江夏，路上又偷偷带了两只回来。
On the day of the delivery, I sent my dog to Jiangxia. On the way, I secretly brought back two more dogs.
带回家我妈说，怎么又带了，不是说好了吗？我就说家里这些不是都送完了吗，我妈也妥协了，说我“无缝衔接”。
Take home my mother said, why not? I said the family is not all finished, my mother also compromised, said I "seamless connection."
就是这样每天做一点点小让步，后来我妈还会帮忙找领养，会在微信上催我，说几栋又有一只流浪猫了，你想想办法啊。
That's how it is to make small concessions every day, and then my mother helps me find adoption, pushes me on the micro-mail to say there's another stray cat in the house. Think about it.
现在封城了，我妈还每天戴着口罩出去喂流浪猫。
Now that the city is closed, my mother goes out every day wearing a mask to feed stray cats.
所以上门喂猫的事，我妈也没有特别激烈地反对，她就说好吧，我跟你一起去吧。
So when it came to feeding the cat, my mother didn't object too much, so she said, OK, I'll go with you.
为了这19家的猫，我爸妈开车载着我跑了3天。
For these 19 cats, my parents drove me for three days.
其实我也会有点担心附近可能有传染源什么的，但是一直在想如果不去的话，猫可能就饿死了，只要有这个念头，那些问题就都还好了。
I was a little worried about the possible source of infection nearby, but I kept thinking that if I didn't go, the cat would starve to death.
为了预防，我们也带了酒精，隔几分钟就喷一下。
As a precaution, we also brought alcohol and sprayed it every few minutes.
1月23号是第一天，我们晚上六点出发，因为觉得人会少一些。
January 23rd is the first day. We leave at six in the evening because we think there will be fewer people.
出发前，我们在楼下的小卖部买了30多个一次性纸碗、10多桶1升的矿泉水和一些垃圾袋。
Before we left, we bought more than 30 disposable paper bowls, more than 10 barrels of 1-liter mineral water and some garbage bags at the grocery store downstairs.
那时候还不知道疫情会这么严重，我们都只戴了口罩。
It was not known then that the outbreak would be so severe that we were all wearing masks.
我们先去了离得比较远的江夏区，因为担心第二天会有新的政策，万一封路或者机动车禁行就过不去了，近一些的随时都可以去。
We went first to the far Jiangxia area, fearing that the next day there would be a new policy, 10,000 roads or motor vehicles will not be allowed to cross, the more recent can go at any time.
那天晚上很黑，街上一个人都没有。
It was dark that night and there was nobody on the street.
平时，如果你没有单元门的门禁，5-10分钟就可以遇到回来的人帮你开门。
Usually, if you don't have a cell door, you can meet someone back in 5-10 minutes to open the door for you.
但是封城之后，没有人了。
But after the siege, there was no one left.
因为没有门禁，我们在一家楼下等了半个小时，才等来人。
As there was no access, we waited for people for half an hour downstairs.
进门之后，我会把主人家剩下的所有猫粮都倒在纸碗里，铺在地板上。
When I came in, I would pour all the cat food that was left of my master's house into a paper bowl and spread it on the floor.
一般是5-7天的量，能分成十多个纸碗。
Generally 5-7 days of quantity, can be divided into more than 10 paper bowls.
矿泉水是我和我妈一起拎上来的，也倒在碗里。
The mineral water was brought up with my mother and poured into the bowl.
我把猫砂也换了，但不能像平时一样，保证一天一换。
I've changed the litter, but I can't make sure I change it every day, as usual.
我只能跟主人们说，没有办法，能不饿死就先不饿死，没法保证你们回来家里还是干干净净的。
I can only tell the masters that there is no way to starve without starving, and that there is no guarantee that you will come home clean.
其实很多人家都比较乱，甚至有一家，走的时候连厕所都没冲。
In fact, many families are more chaotic, even a family, even when the toilet did not flush.
我妈又很较真，恨不得帮别人把被子都叠了。
My mother is very real, would like to help others fold the quilt.
挨家挨户地跑，一家要搞一个多小时。
Door to door, more than an hour for a family.
上门喂养的第一天，我们凌晨一点才回到家。
The first day of door-to-door feeding, we got home at 1: 00 a.m.
我把外穿的衣服脱下来消了毒，才发现里面衣服全湿了。
I took off my outer clothes and poisoned them before I realized they were all wet.
做好这件事，我跟这些主人拉了一个群，发通知说我先在家里给你们放置3到5天的猫粮，后面怎么办，大家一起想想办法。
To do this well, I have a group with these owners, sent a notice that I put you at home for three to five days of cat food, how to do the latter, we think about the way.
主要是我害怕有可能会封区，之前非典就有过这样的情况，如果封区，我就没法上门了，现在我已经把这19家都匹配到他们小区附近的人喂养了。
The main thing is I'm afraid of the possibility of a zone, as was the case with SARS before. If it were sealed, I would not be able to come to the door.
李考拉家的寄养猫咪，图片由受访者提供❸平台把这19家都安顿好了之后，我就不再接上门喂养了，改成为需要帮助的主人们“牵线搭桥”。
Pictured here is a photo of a foster cat at the Likora's home. After the 19 homes were fitted up on a quilted platform, I stopped feeding them and acted as a "matchmaker" for those in need.
我有4000多个微信好友，因为之前做流浪猫救助，很多人在我这领养过猫、买过猫咪用品。
I have more than 4000 micro-friends, because before doing stray cat rescue, many people in my adoption of cats, bought cat supplies.
现在封城了，回不来的主人没法喂猫，我就帮他们匹配愿意帮忙的人。
Now that the city is closed, and the owners who can't get back can't feed the cats, I match them with people who are willing to help.
在我这领养出去的猫，我都会拉一个小群，方便对接，这些群有些就发展成了两三百人的大群。
In my adopted cat, I would pull a small group to facilitate docking, and some of these groups grew into large groups of two or three hundred people.
我查了当年SARS时北京的政策，担心武汉以后也会封小区，所以只匹配同小区的喂养。
I checked the SARS when Beijing's policy, worried that Wuhan will also be sealed in the future, so only match the feeding of the same community.
匹配的时候，我一边私信我知道地址的人，一边在这些领养群里不停地问。
When the match was made, I privately believed the person I knew the address and kept asking among the adoption groups.
现在，我每天早上睁开眼就开始看消息，一直到晚上一两点钟才处理完。
Now, every morning I open my eyes and read the news until one or two o'clock in the evening.
除了给家里30多只猫铲屎、消毒和喂食，我所有的时间都在看消息、发消息。
In addition to shoveling, disinfecting and feeding more than 30 cats at home, I spent all my time reading and sending messages.
因为一直盯着手机看，最近我的眼睛不是很舒服，不知道是不是得了青光眼。
As I have been staring at my mobile phone, my eyes have not been very comfortable recently, I do not know if I have glaucoma.
匹配成功之后，还要解决钥匙的问题。
Once the match is successful, the key problem is also solved.
有的主人会把钥匙用顺丰寄过来，但更多的是找开锁公司换个锁芯，也不会把门破坏了。
Some will send the key with Shunfeng, but more often than not find the lock company to change the lock core, will not break the door.
开锁前我会问猫主人，你们家有没有什么贵重物品，是猫命重要还是东西重要？他们就说猫命重要一些。
Before I unlock it, I ask the cat owner if you have anything valuable in your house, important for your cat's life or something important.
之前的19家，我为他们找好了愿意帮忙的人，其中有个人来我家拿钥匙，还塞了一包口罩给我。
In the 19 previous ones, I found people who were willing to help. One of them came to my house to get my keys and stuffed a bag of masks for me.
25号的时候，一个之前在我这领养过猫咪的护士告诉我，她要“上前线”了，可能不会回家住，没办法喂猫了。
On the 25th, a nurse who had previously adopted a cat with me told me that she was "on the front line" and might not be able to live at home and feed the cat.
我把求助信息在几十个群里都发了个遍，才找到了愿意帮忙的人。
I had to go through dozens of groups to find someone who was willing to help.
也有不着急的主人。
There are masters who are in no hurry.
我帮他找到了人、谈好了价格，还专门找了人把钥匙从我家带到喂养人的家，花了很多精力。
I found him, negotiated the price, and had my keys brought from my house to the nurse's house, and spent a great deal of energy.
我问主人可不可以明天上门，他两天后回我：已经处理好了，不需要我帮忙。
I asked the host if he could come tomorrow, and he returned to me in two days.
我就被气哭了：明明是别人的猫，反而是我在操心。
I was angry to cry: it was obviously someone else's cat, but I was worried.
除夕是封城的第二天。
New Year's Eve is the second day of the city.
那天晚上，很多主人都很着急，担心自己家的猫没人喂。
Many owners were worried that night that their cat would not be fed.
我忙到了凌晨两三点钟，一直在帮忙匹配和找人开锁，没顾得上吃饭，凑合吃了点泡面和薯片。
I was busy until two or three in the morning, helping to match and find the lock, rather than eating, so I made do with some noodles and chips.
家里没有电视，我也没办法看春晚。
I can't watch the Spring Festival Gala without a TV at home.
我一直在看消息，零点的时候都没有注意到。
I've been reading the news. I didn't notice it at 0.
因为没想到会封城，很多主人家都没有猫粮了。
Because did not expect to close the city, many host families do not have cat food.
1月29号，我联系上武汉郊区的仓库和配送公司，建了一个送货上门的群。
On January 29th, I contacted the warehouse and distribution company in the outskirts of Wuhan and set up a group to deliver goods door to door.
猫粮和猫砂是最紧缺的。
Cat food and cat litter are the most scarce.
我在群里贴出来了一张报价单，所有产品都不溢价，也不收配送费。
I posted a quote in the group, all products are free of premium, and there is no delivery charge.
群里现在有200多个客户，还不断有人向我咨询，但我决定不能再加人了，不能让配送小哥们冒着生命危险一直在外面跑。
There are more than 200 clients in the group, and I'm constantly being consulted, but I've decided that I can't add people and keep the delivery buddies out running at the risk of their lives.
群里也有一些很自私的人。
There are also some very selfish people in the group.
有个猫主人只买了一件东西就要求送货上门，我就生气了：不是钱多钱少的问题，是你尊不尊重别人的问题，你把人家配送小哥的生命当成什么？还有人在群里买了猫粮，但是不在武汉，希望配送小哥帮他喂一下猫。
A cat owner only bought one thing and asked for a door-to-door delivery, and I was angry: It was not a question of money or money, it was a question of disrespect for others, what do you think of the life of a little brother who distributes food to the group, but not in Wuhan, hoping to send younger brothers to feed the cat.
配送小哥没养过猫，一天要送40多家，我告诉这个客户，如果小哥忙忘了就算了，他回我，你们智商是有问题吗？喂个猫都不会。
I told this client that if the younger brother forgot about it, he would return to me. Is there something wrong with your IQ? Not a cat.
我真的又想哭又想笑。
I really want to cry and laugh.
爸妈起初不支持我救助流浪动物，一直劝我：少养一点、少养一点。
My parents at first did not support me to help stray animals, has always advised me: less to feed, less to feed.
可我听不进去，两年多救助了700多只小动物。
But I can not listen to, more than two years to save more than 700 small animals.
我平日里上班忙，总是我爸来遛狗，我妈偶尔从我家里拿些猫粮出去流浪猫。
I am always busy at work. My father is always walking my dog. My mother occasionally takes some cat food from my house and goes out to stray cats.
他们嘴上劝我别做了，实际却在帮我，这次上门喂养猫咪，我爸开车，我和我妈上门，如果没有他们，我一个人怎么喂的过来。
They tell me not to do it, but actually help me, this time home-feeding cats, my father driving, my mother and I door-to-door, if not, how can I feed them alone.
前天晚上，我妈告诉我，爸爸主动报名参加雷神山医院的建设工程了。
The night before yesterday, my mother told me that my father had volunteered to take part in the construction project of Lei Shenshan Hospital.
收到消息的那一瞬间，我真的很想哭。
The moment I received the news, I really wanted to cry.
我还年轻，怎么折腾自己都没关系，但是我爸爸老了，经不起折腾。
I'm still young, it doesn't matter how I toss myself, but my father is old and can't stand toss.
我和30多只猫的主人们拉了一个微信群，群名叫“春田花花幼儿园”，每天给他们发猫猫们的小视频报平安。
I and the owners of more than 30 cats pulled a micro-group called "Chuntian Hua Flower Kindergarten," giving them daily small videos of cats and cats.
希望疫情能快点过去，武汉能早日解禁，猫咪们也能早点见到主人。
Hopefully, the epidemic can be quickly over, Wuhan can be lifted as soon as possible, cats can see the owner.
应受访者要求，李考拉为化名GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that can contribute to the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, please contact us at any time! We are always ready to hear your voice!
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：少少编辑：诺查监制：何瑫运营编辑：肖呱呱。
We will work together to tide us over! Reply eggs backstage in the Public Interest, send you a colorful egg interview, and write: As soon as possible, as soon as possible!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉封城后的宠物营救计划：人类犯错的后果，不该由它们承担。
Wuhan after the Pet Rescue Plan: the consequences of human error, should not be borne by them.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉封城后的宠物营救计划：人类犯错的后果，不该由它们承担";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "希望疫情能快点过去，武汉能早日解禁，猫咪们也能早点见到主人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Hopefully, the outbreak will soon pass, Wuhan can be lifted, and cats can see their owners earlier.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉',。
Ride out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, and volunteers... Found City 9, and they maintain Wuhan's blood at & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情中的心理援助：寻找局部的安全',。
AT & P: Psychological assistance in the epidemic: Looking for local security & amp; apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; when the epidemic ended.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
