黄冈，一个武汉周边城市的疫情防控样本。
Huanggang, a sample of disease control in a city surrounding Wuhan.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
这名医生担心疫情在黄冈下面的县市地区进一步扩散。
The doctor is concerned that the outbreak is spreading further in the counties and cities below Huanggang.
「现在所有人都把目光放在武汉，少有人注意到周边地区。
"Now everyone is looking at Wuhan and very few people are paying attention to the surrounding area.
这些地区的医疗物资本来就不足，要是没人关注的话，就会变成第二个武汉。
These areas are already inadequate medical supplies, if no one attention, will become a second Wuhan.
」文｜苏东编辑｜楚明关系密切1月23日，黄冈封城的这一天，周伟带着疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎的父亲来到黄冈市传染病医院，希望住院治疗。
+ yeg + yeg + yeg + + + + + + +, + yeg + + +, + yeg + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, +, +, +, +, +, +,
传染病医院是黄冈市新型肺炎的定点医院之一，医院外有一道铁门。
Infectious disease hospital is one of the new type of pneumonia in Huanggang city, outside the hospital iron door.
周伟和父亲连这道铁门都没能进去。
Neither Zhou Wei nor his father could get in the iron gate.
因为医院已经收满了，让他想别的办法。
As the hospital was full, let him think of something else.
「但我能有什么办法？」周伟的父亲已经74岁，如今发烧39度，肺部已经出现感染性病变。
"But what can I do?" Zhou Wei's father, 74, now has a fever of 39 degrees and his lungs are infected.
当天上午，他带父亲去发烧门诊做过诊断，一百多号人在排队，他和父亲排了一上午队才看上病。
That morning, he took his father to the fever clinic for a diagnosis, more than a hundred people in line, he and his father queued up all morning to fall ill.
看病的医生告诉他，现在发热门诊4个医生两班倒，平均每个医生每天要看150个病人。
The doctor who saw him told him that there were now two shifts of four doctors at the fever clinic, with an average of 150 visits per doctor per day.
去发热门诊并不能解决什么实质性的问题。
Fever-free clinics don't solve any real problems.
父亲照了CT，肺部显示出「磨玻璃影」，这是新型冠状病毒CT片的症状之一。
His father took a CT scan and his lungs showed "glassy shadow," one of the symptoms of a new coronavirus CT scan.
同时，医生还做了进一步病毒排查，排除了甲流和乙流病毒的感染可能。
At the same time, the doctor also did further virus screening, excluding the possibility of A and B virus infection.
「然后他们就没法进一步检测了，因为他们说现在没有试剂盒，也没法确诊。
"Then they couldn't go any further because they said there was no test kit and no way to confirm the diagnosis.
」23日中午，他和父亲从发热门诊走出来，只能回家。
"At noon on the 23rd he and his father came out of the fever clinic and had to go home.
周伟必须照顾他父亲，但二人的隔离措施只有戴口罩。
Zhou Wei had to take care of his father, but their isolation was limited to wearing a mask.
他曾想过给自己买个护目镜，但也没地方卖。
He had thought about buying himself a goggles, but there was no place to sell them.
他夜里10点的时候，抱着试一试的心态又带父亲去了传染病医院一趟，还是不让进。
At 10 p. m., he took his father to the infectious disease hospital with a try-out mentality, but he was still not allowed in.
他又给黄冈另外两家定点医院打电话，所有的定点医院都告诉他：没有床位。
He telephoned two other designated hospitals in Huanggang, all of which told him there were no beds.
他只能把父亲带回家隔离。
He had to take his father home and isolate him.
周伟父亲的相关检查报告。
A report on Zhou Wei's father's examination.
受访者供图黄冈成为武汉之外的疫情重灾区。
The interviewee provided Tu Huanggang with an epidemic disaster area outside Wuhan.
在黄冈市区内，三家定点医院专门收治新型冠状病毒病人和高度疑似病人，一共有300个左右床位，两天前基本满员。
In the Huanggang district, three designated hospitals are specialized in treating new coronavirus patients and highly suspected patients, with a total of about 300 beds, nearly full two days ago.
而此时，每天依然有数百人在发热门诊排队就诊，而这仅仅是在黄冈市区，如果算上黄冈下辖的7县2市的疑似病例，人数可能还会更多。
At the same time, hundreds of people are still queuing for treatment at the fever clinic every day, and the number is likely to be even higher if the suspected cases in two of the seven counties under the jurisdiction of Huanggang are included.
截至目前，黄冈市对外发布的疫情数据为64人确诊患新型冠状病毒肺炎。
So far, the data released by Huanggang City is 64 people diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
作为湖北省人口第二多、打工人口第一多的黄冈市，历来与武汉关系密切。
Huanggang City, with the second largest population and the largest working population in Hubei Province, has always had close relations with Wuhan.
这种密切首先指的是地理位置：黄冈紧邻武汉东北部，从黄冈市区到武汉80公里左右，坐车走高速需要一个多小时，坐城际列车只需要半个小时左右。
This closeness refers first and foremost to geographical location: Huanggang is close to northeast Wuhan, from Huanggang District to Wuhan about 80 kilometers, it takes more than an hour by bus, and only about half an hour by intercity train.
密切更体现在人口和经济的交流上，黄冈市统计公报显示，2018年，黄冈户籍总人口740.64万人，常住人口633万人，净流出107.64万人。
In 2018, Huanggang has a population of 7.4064 million and a resident population of 6.33 million, giving a net outflow of 1,076,400, according to the Huanggang statistics bulletin.
其中，外出务工人员大部分涌入中东部地区，武汉是重要目的地。
Among them, the majority of migrant workers into the central and eastern regions, Wuhan is an important destination.
密切的人员流动，给病毒的传播带来风险。
Close movement of people poses a risk to the spread of the virus.
在武汉封城之前，百度迁徙的数据显示，从武汉出发返乡的人群，人口流入量第一的城市就是黄冈市，约占14.53%。
Before the city was closed in Wuhan, data on Baidu's migration showed that the city of Huanggang accounted for 14.53 percent of the influx of people returning home from Wuhan.
转折在过去，黄冈这座城市出现集体紧张情绪，可能只会在每年黄冈中学高考的时候。
The turn in the past, the city of Huanggang collective tension, may only be in the annual Huanggang secondary college entrance examination when.
与广州、北京等地不同，17年前的SARS疫情下，黄冈乃至整个湖北，都没怎么经历过防疫战的考验。
Unlike Guangzhou or Beijing, Huanggang and even Hubei, where SARS was prevalent 17 years ago, had little experience of the epidemic.
比如，直到2003年4月21日，SARS在广州爆发约4个多月后，整个湖北才出现了第一例SARS患者。
For example, it was not until April 21, 2003, more than four months after SARS broke out in Guangzhou, that the first case of SARS occurred in Hubei Province.
1月23日，突然而来的黄冈封城决定，让很多当地人最先感到的是惊讶，而不是紧张。
On January 23, the sudden decision to seal the city of Huanggang first struck many locals as surprise, not nervousness.
直到封城之前，黄冈市区的居民赵亮夫妻都在等上海的女儿回家吃团年饭。
Until the closure of the city, Huanggang residents Zhao Liang husband and wife are waiting for the daughter of Shanghai to eat reunion dinner.
他们买了20斤牛肉、5斤猪肉、4条草鱼、1条胖头鱼，另外还有3只鸡。
They bought 20 kilos of beef, 5 kilos of pork, 4 grass carps, 1 fat head fish and 3 chickens.
女儿喜欢吃炸豆腐，19日那天赵亮妻子还特地开车去下面的罗田县买了10斤土豆腐。
Daughter likes to eat fried tofu, 19 days Zhao Liang's wife also specially drove to the following Luotian County to buy a 10-jack bean curd.
在此之前，黄冈官方传递出来的讯息也跟紧张无关。
Until then, the official Huanggang message had nothing to do with tension.
《黄冈日报》报道，1月19日，2020年「春风行动」启动仪式暨新春招聘会在黄州遗爱湖举行，近万人参加了招聘会。
The Huanggang Daily reported that on January 19, the start-up ceremony of the 2020 Spring Festival was held in Lake Lok, Huangzhou. Nearly 10,000 people attended the fair.
也是这一天，全市各界人士迎春茶话会举行，报道称，「大家欢聚一堂，共叙友谊，共话发展，共迎新春，以良好精神状态迎接新年到来。
Also on this day, the Chinese New Year tea party was held by people from all walks of life in the city.
」赵亮家里塞满食材的冰箱，寓意也是过个丰满的好年。
"Zhao Liang's family stuffed with food refrigerators, the moral is also a plump good year.
年关将近，夫妻二人的手机朋友圈里都是年底同事们相互感谢的消息。
Close to the end of the year, the couple's mobile phone friends circle is the end of the year colleagues thank each other news.
还有一件事绝对不能忘，按照黄冈的习俗，腊月二十八就该吃年饭了。
One thing must not be forgotten, according to the Huanggang custom, the Lunar New Year dinner on the 28th.
所以在22日的时候，赵亮带着家里老人和亲戚出门吃了年饭。
So on the 22nd, Zhao Liang took the old man and his relatives out for the New Year dinner.
年饭定在黄冈市区十字街的一家煨汤馆，去的时候已经爆满。
Lunar New Year dinner in Huanggang District Cross Street simmer soup hall, to go when the time has been full.
他们一家人从楼下走上二楼包房，一路上看到一层大厅里还有人在办酒席，没有一个人戴口罩。
The family went downstairs to the second floor of the cabin, and along the way they saw people serving in the ground floor hall, none of them wearing masks.
就在赵亮一家人出门吃年饭的这一天，疫情实际上已经相当严重，武汉做出封城的决定。
Zhao Liang family went out to eat New Year's Day, in fact, the epidemic has been quite serious, Wuhan made the decision to seal the city.
紧张感首先传导到在上海工作的女儿那里，女儿打电话回来：「爸，记得戴口罩啊，少出门，武汉封城了！」赵亮仍是一副无所谓的态度，他在电话里回答女儿：「没事，黄冈才十几个，要知道黄冈七百多万人呢，才感染十几个怕啥。
"Dad, remember to wear a mask, don't go out, Wuhan is closed!" Zhao Liang is still indifferent attitude, he answered his daughter: "Nothing, Huanggang only a dozen, you know Huanggang more than 7 million people, just infected with a dozen fear.
你快回来吧。
You should come back soon.
」一天后，黄冈也做出封城的决定，女儿回不来了。
"A day later, Huang Gang also made the decision to seal the city, the daughter could not go back.
武汉周边七个地区相继封城。
Wuhan surrounding seven areas have been closed.
「这样是不是小题大做了？」封城当天，黄冈市步行街入口，正在逛街的刘同跟同事讨论。
"Is this a fuss?" said Liu Tong, who was shopping with colleagues at the entrance to Huanggang Street on the same day.
在这条黄冈最热闹的步行街，来往穿流的人群与往年相比并没有减少。
In this most bustling pedestrian street in Huanggang, the number of people crossing the street has not decreased compared to previous years.
不过他也发现一些变化，比如街上行人戴口罩变多了。
But he also found some changes, such as more face masks on the streets.
他想着也给自己去买个口罩，连跑了三个药房，口罩都卖断货了。
He thought of buying a mask for himself too. He ran three pharmacies and sold out of masks.
刘同这才意识到一丝紧张。
Only then did Liu realize a little nervousness.
身边朋友告诉他，听新闻里说，酒精也可以杀灭病毒，买不到口罩不妨买点酒精回去消毒。
Friends around told him, listen to the news, alcohol can also kill the virus, can not buy a mask can buy some alcohol back to disinfect.
他又去药房询问医用酒精，也卖完了。
He went to the drugstore to inquire about the medical alcohol, but it was sold out.
最后，按照当年防治非典时的习惯，他买了一袋板蓝根回家。
Finally, he bought a bag of Banlangen to go home, in line with his SARS habit.
在刘同的记忆里，2003年非典时他正在黄冈中学读高二，整个学校都弥漫着一股烧白醋的味道。
In Liu's memory, he was a high school sophomore at Huanggang High School in 2003, and the whole school smelled of burning white vinegar.
老师们在教室后面支了个火锅，他作为副班长的任务，就是每隔一段时间往锅里加醋。
The teachers set up a hot pot at the back of the classroom. His job as deputy monitor was to add vinegar to the pot every once in a while.
他反思自己，17年过去了，他从当年的SARS里学到了什么靠谱的防疫理念吗？并没有。
He reflected on himself, 17 years later, from the SARS he learned from what the idea of a sound epidemic prevention? Not really.
封城是一个转折点。
The closure was a turning point.
在这之后，黄冈市的防疫宣传每一天都在强化。
Since then, the city's immunization campaigns have intensified every day.
如果说22日还是劝说的口吻，「尽量少出门，在人流密集的情况戴口罩」；到了24日，宣传已经变成了命令式，「一律不准探亲访友，一律不准开展大型活动。
If the 22 th is still persuasive, "as little as possible out of the home, in densely populated situations wearing masks"; by 24, publicity has become an imperative, "no family, no friends, no large-scale activities.
」也正是在这个时期，黄冈市的三家定点医院出现了床位饱和的现象。
"It was also during this period that the capacity of the three designated hospitals in Huanggang city became saturated.
一些集中出现疑似病人的地方，比如黄冈市内的一个菜市场，已经清空，并且开始消毒。
Some of the suspected areas, such as a vegetable market in Huanggang, have been emptied and disinfected.
女儿没法回来之后，赵亮夫妻24日在家里躲了一天。
When her daughter couldn't come back, Zhao Liang and his wife stayed home for a day on the 24th.
由于实在无事可干，他们只能大量阅读网上关于疫情的信息，「你只有各种信息看多了，才能真正紧张起来，想到我们22日还出去吃了年饭，我心里就后怕。
Because there is nothing to do, they can only read a lot of information about the epidemic on the Internet. "You have to read a lot of information to really get nervous, thinking that we also went out to eat Chinese New Year dinner on the 22nd, I was afraid.
」在黄冈这样的小城市里，熟人的一句话可能抵得过10条新闻报道。
In a small city like Huanggang, a single word from an acquaintance could be worth ten news articles.
赵亮一个朋友告诉他，「黄冈的疫情比实际公布的厉害得多。
A friend of Zhao Liang told him, "The situation in Huanggang is much worse than actually announced.
」这个朋友在医院工作，赵亮曾经找他办过入院，医疗上的问题一直很信任他。
"The friend worked in the hospital and Zhao Liang had admitted him to hospital, where he had always been trusted for medical problems.
赵亮的另一个朋友也对他说，打网球可以预防新型冠状病毒，因为一来网球在室外，二来可以增强身体抵抗力。
Another friend of Zhao Liang also told him that playing tennis can prevent the new coronavirus, because on the one hand, tennis is outdoors, and on the other hand, it strengthens the body's resistance.
这个朋友是赵亮的球友，赵亮也信了，准备等天晴就出去打网球。
This friend is Zhao Liang's ball friend, Zhao Liang also believed, ready to wait for the weather to play tennis.
此时，黄冈正阴雨绵绵。
At this time, Huanggang is rainy.
赵亮夫妻在家坐了一天，妻子感叹，「结婚这么多年，像这么从早坐到晚的还是头一回。
Zhao Liang husband and wife sit at home all day, wife exclaims, "After all these years of marriage, it is the first time to sit from morning till night like this.
」最后，他们决定挨个给亲戚朋友打电话，告诉他们，「今年不要来拜年了。
Finally, they decided to call their relatives and friends one by one and tell them, "Don't pay New Year's Eve this year.
」湖北省新型肺炎疫情实时动态（截至1月25日下午3时）。
Real-time dynamics of the new pneumonia epidemic in Hubei Province (as of 3 p.m. on January 25).
图源丁香园自我隔离市区里的人渐渐开始紧张起来，许多人的家庭群里都在转发「今年过节不拜年」的倡议。
clove Garden Self-Segregation People are getting nervous in the city, and many families are forwarding the "No New Year to the holidays" initiative.
只不过，这样的倡议在市区行得通，在黄冈下面的乡镇却未必能起作用。
But while such initiatives work in urban areas, they are unlikely to work in the townships below Huanggang.
除了市区之外，黄冈市还下辖七个县、两个县级市，整个黄冈市人均GDP位居全省倒数第二，市内工作机会较少，因此去武汉打工者众多。
Huanggang has seven counties and two counties in addition to the city, which has the second-lowest per capita GDP in the province and fewer jobs in the city.
而赶在武汉封城前，已经有相当一部分人回到黄冈。
And in Wuhan before the closure of the city, a considerable number of people have returned to Huanggang.
以黄冈市团风县淋山河镇为例，这是与武汉联系最密切的乡镇之一。
Take Lingshan River Town in Tuanfeng County Huanggang City as an example, which is one of the most closely linked towns with Wuhan.
淋山河镇还拥有民营建筑企业「山河集团」，参与了不少武汉工程项目的施工建设，打工者数以万计。
Linshan River Town also owned private construction enterprises "Shanhe Group," involved in the construction of a number of Wuhan projects, workers tens of thousands.
打工者周红说，他是听到武汉封城的消息后，连夜赶回淋山河的。
Zhou Hong, a migrant worker, said he was rushed back to the mountain river after hearing the news of the city's closure.
他的工友基本都跑回来了。
His workmates were mostly back.
「离开前的那一晚，我们已经感受到了武汉的紧张，当时只要不发烧的人，就想着赶紧出来。
"The night before we left, we were already feeling the tension in Wuhan and wanted to get out as soon as we didn't have a fever.
」武汉铁路局的数据显示，仅通过铁路，有30万人赶在封城前去往全国各地，而像周红这样和人拼车回家的更是无法统计。
Wuhan Railway Bureau figures show that 300,000 people have been driven across the country by rail alone, and others like Zhou Hong, who carpool their way home, are unable to count.
周红当天还算离开得早，「晚的话，拼车一个人收费1500块」。
Zhou Hong that day also calculate leaves early, "If late, carpool a person to charge 1500 dollars."
回到淋山河后，周红照常走亲访友，「我在武汉没有发烧，肯定没问题，再说了，一家人在一起过年是村里的习俗，怎么可能不走动？」「但这个病是有潜伏期的呀？」「没事，农村通风好。
Back at the Linshan River, Zhou Hong went to visit his friends and relatives as usual. "I have no fever in Wuhan. I am sure there is no problem. Besides, it is the village custom to celebrate the New Year together.
」封城对村民影响不大，他们日常的串门本来就不依靠公共交通，都自备汽车、三轮车和摩托车。
The closure had little impact on the villagers, who did not rely on public transport for their daily visits, but brought their own cars, tricycles and motorcycles.
也有一些从武汉回来的人有自我隔离的意识。
There are also some people who come back from Wuhan have a sense of self-isolation.
张林和5个工友一起在武汉打工，平时住在一个宿舍，一起吃饭，回来的时候也是一起，「我们中间如果有一个人得病，其他5个人绝对跑不了。
Zhang Lin and his five co-workers worked together in Wuhan, usually lived in a dormitory, ate together, and came back together. "If one of us got sick, the other five couldn't run away.
」张林在黄冈有个三居室，他把房间提供出来，和五个朋友一起住在里面。
Zhang Lin had a three-bedroom apartment in Huanggang. He offered it and lived in it with five friends.
他们称之为「集体自我隔离」。
They call it "collective self-segregation."
隔离的方式就是整天打麻将，轮出来的两个人做饭。
Isolation of the way is playing Mahjong all day, the rotation of two people cooking.
如果不出意外，他们可能会打麻将打到十四天隔离期满。
If nothing happens, they may play Mahjong until the end of the 14-day quarantine period.
连夜从封城的武汉里跑出来的，不光有外地人，也有出来躲避的武汉本地人。
The night ran out of Wuhan, where the city was closed. There were not only foreigners, but also Wuhan natives who had come out to escape.
在黄冈罗田县一处度假山庄，一家农家乐店主发现有很多鄂A牌照的车来他这里过年，他戴着口罩挨个给他们测体温，不发烧的才能住。
At a resort in Luotian County, Huanggang, a farmer found cars with a lot of E-E license plates coming to him for the New Year.
测的时候，一个武汉人告诉他，「放心，我们能出来都是经过体温检测了，没事。
At the time of the test, a Wuhan man told him, "rest assured, we can come out after the temperature test, nothing.
」他们说，这时候住进度假山庄，就是为了躲避疫情。
They said they were staying at the resort just to avoid the outbreak.
所幸的是，村庄里的情形渐渐得到改观，尽管显得有些迟缓。
Fortunately, the situation in the villages is gradually improving, albeit slowly.
罗田县已经通知村庄负责人，必须以敲锣、喇叭播放的方式，告知村民不要出门、不要串门，尤其是从武汉回来的人必须自我隔离。
Luotian county has informed village leaders that they must use percussion gong, trumpet broadcast, tell villagers not to go out, do not visit the door, especially those who return from Wuhan must self-isolation.
首个新冠病毒检测试剂盒通过检验。
The first new crown virus detection kit passed the test.
图源网络医院求助如果不是因为父亲生病去医院，周伟对疫情的感知也不会那么强烈。
If it had not been for his father's illness to the hospital, Zhou Wei's perception of the outbreak would not have been so strong.
大部分市民不了解具体情况的当地医院，已经成为火热的战场。
Local hospitals, where most citizens are unaware of the situation, have become a fiery battleground.
黄冈市中心医院是黄冈市内最大的医院，也是黄冈市公布的三家有发热门诊的医院之一。
Huanggang City Central Hospital is the largest hospital in Huanggang City, Huanggang City has announced that one of the three hospitals with fever clinic.
中心医院一名医生说，医院最开始也没有重视，「一开始医院内部都没有采取隔离措施，十多个医护人员和家属感染后，当时都被收治到呼吸内科和内分泌科。
A doctor at the Central Hospital said the hospital had not paid much attention at first. "At first, there was no quarantine inside the hospital. More than a dozen medical staff and family members were admitted to the respiratory and endocrinology department after infection.
一开始还有送饭的家属，后来送饭的家属也感染上了，才开始采取隔离措施。
At first there were family members who delivered the food, but later the family who delivered the food also became infected and began to take isolation measures.
」黄冈市中心医院昨天发布的官方微信也显示，医院里的呼吸科副主任黄虎翔和呼吸科医生张玉娇均已被隔离。
An official letter from Huanggang Central Hospital yesterday also showed that Huang Huxiang, the hospital's deputy respiratory director, and Zhang Yujiao, a respiratory doctor, had been quarantined.
这名医生担心疫情在黄冈下面的县市地区进一步扩散。
The doctor is concerned that the outbreak is spreading further in the counties and cities below Huanggang.
「现在所有人都把目光放在武汉，少有人注意到周边地区。
"Now everyone is looking at Wuhan and very few people are paying attention to the surrounding area.
这些地区的医疗物资本来就不足，要是没人关注的话，就会变成第二个武汉。
These areas are already inadequate medical supplies, if no one attention, will become a second Wuhan.
」如今，确切的消息显示，黄冈市中心医院正在开辟新病区，以应对床位不够。
Now, accurate information indicates that the Huanggang Central Hospital is opening up a new area to cope with the shortage of beds.
但随之而来的问题同样是，需要充足的医护人员、物资和设备。
But so, too, is the need for adequate medical personnel, supplies and equipment.
黄冈下辖的黄梅县人民医院负责物资采购的戴立东说，医院已经把一整个楼都用来装县城里的疑似病人，「已经收了50多个病人了，目前医院的医疗物资严重紧缺，仅够一周使用」，连最基本的口罩和手术衣都快用尽。
Dailiton, who is in charge of supplies procurement at the Huangmei County People's Hospital in Huanggang, said the hospital had already used up an entire building for suspected patients in the county.
戴立东说，他已经向上面反映了，但整个黄冈都缺物资。
Mr. Dailiton said he had reflected above, but that the entire Huanggang area was short of supplies.
他只能跑到各个微信文章下面留言，希望能够有人支援他们。
All he could do was run down to the microphone articles and leave a message, hoping someone would back them up.
对医院来说，这几乎近似于在自救了。
For the hospital, this is almost self-help.
医院尚且在自救，对周伟的父亲这样的疑似病人，目前也只能在家自救。
Hospital is still in self-help, Zhou Wei's father such a suspect, at present can only help themselves at home.
周伟下载了官方发布的诊疗方案，把方案里的药买回来，自己当起了父亲的「医生」。
Zhou Wei downloaded the official diagnosis and treatment plan, the plan to buy back the drug, his father as a "doctor."
只是，他也不知道自己什么时候会被父亲传染，也不知道还能照顾父亲多长时间。
Only, he does not know when he will be infected by his father, and do not know how long he can take care of his father.
黄冈疾控中心急需相关检测设备。
Huanggang CDC urgently needs relevant detection equipment.
图源黄冈市疾控中心（文中周伟、赵亮、刘同、周红、张林为化名。
Map source Huanggang City CDC (text Zhou Wei, Zhao Liang, Liu Tong, Zhou Hong, Zhang Lin as aliases.
本文封面及文中部分图片来自掌上黄冈微信公众号）文章为每日人物与腾讯联合出品侵权必究。
The cover and some of the pictures in this article come from Huanggang Weixin Public Number on the Palm.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄冈，一个武汉周边城市的疫情防控样本。
Huanggang, a sample of disease control in a city surrounding Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "黄冈，一个武汉周边城市的疫情防控样本";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Huanggang, an outbreak control sample from a city near Wuhan;;
var msg_desc = "距离武汉仅80公里的黄冈，如何应对疫情？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
