长江从此少了一位救援者。
The Yangtze River has since lost a rescuer.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
俞关荣本文约3957字预计阅读时间10分钟作者 | 尹海月 龚阿媛编辑| 从玉华俞关荣大半辈子在救人。
Yu Guanrong About 3957 words Expect to Read About 10 Minutes Author & # 45; Yin Haiyue Gong & nbsp; Editing & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2010年，他创建武汉市长江救援志愿队，带领这个队伍挽救了700多个人的生命。
In 2010, he founded the Wuhan Yangtze River Rescue Volunteer Corps, leading the team to save more than 700 lives.
他说，“我不可能看到一条生命在我面前消失。
"I can't see a life disappear in front of me," he said.
”他熟悉长江，他知道哪里的堤岸坡度超过30度，哪里的青苔最厚最滑，哪里的台阶下面被江水掏空。
He knew the Yangtze River well, and he knew where the embankment slope was more than 30 degrees, where the moss was thickest and slippery, and where the river emptied the bottom of the steps.
他把黄鹤楼码头回流50米的“三角区”，称为武汉水域最危险的地方，2014年，他和同伴在这里救了24条生命。
He called the 50-meter "triangle" of the Yellow Crane Tower Wharf, the most dangerous part of Wuhan's waters, where he and his companions saved 24 lives in 2014.
他曾描述，年轻的他第一次救人时，“那个人按着你的肩膀往水下按”，那种恐怖的眼神他怎么也忘不掉，那是一种“求生的本能”。
He once described the young man who, when he saved his life for the first time, "pressed the man on your shoulder and pushed underwater," a "survival instinct" that he could never forget.
他可以在水下憋3分20秒。
He can hold it underwater for three minutes and 20 seconds.
可2月6日上午9时30分，他没有憋过那口气。
But at 9: 30 a.m. on February 6, he could not hold his breath.
71岁的俞关荣因患肺炎去世，死前未被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Yu Guanrong, 71, died of pneumonia and was not diagnosed with pneumonia before his death.
在生命最后的日子，他给朋友留言：“一个多余的字，一个多余的动作都能让人喘个不停”。
At the end of his life, he left a message for his friend: "A redundant word, a superfluous action can make a person gasp."
妻子王天蓉说：“他救了一辈子人，最后自己需要人救的时候，连亲人都没有办法。
"He saved his whole life," said his wife, Wang Tianrong. "Finally, he needed someone to save him.
”1生病前几天，俞关荣去成都参加救援培训。
A few days before his illness, Yu went to Chengdu to attend rescue training.
临走前，他跟队员郝振海说，有关救援队的后续发展，自己有很多想法，回来再跟大家交流。
Before he left, he told his team member Hao Zhenhai that he had a lot of ideas about the follow-up development of the rescue team.
没想到，这是两人最后一次见面。
Unexpectedly, this was the last time they met.
在圈子里，大个子俞关荣是有名的健美先生，他跑马拉松，横渡长江，家里的哑铃太太提都提不起来，不打麻将不喝酒，没有一根白发，大家说他“最少得活到90岁”。
In circles, big Yu Guanrong is a famous bodybuilder, he ran marathon, cross the Yangtze River, home dumbbell Mrs. Tian can not lift up, do not play Mahjong do not drink, not a single white hair, they say he "must live at least 90 years.
起初，没有人将他与新冠肺炎联系起来。
At first, no one associated him with pneumonia in the new crown.
妻子王天蓉记得1月11日那天，俞关荣出去跟老同学聚会，玩了一整天，晚上回家后说有点冷，“一会就开始流鼻涕”。
On January 11, Yu Guanrong went out to have a party with his old classmates. After playing all day, he came home at night and said it was a bit cold.
她给不怎么吃药的丈夫吃了两天感冒药，“多喝点开水”。
She gave her husband, who didn't take much medicine, two days of cold medicine. "Drink plenty of water."
1月13日，星期一他就去上班了。
He went to work on Monday, January 13th.
1月16日，王天蓉发现，俞关荣不仅感冒没有好转，咳嗽了，还有点喘，身上关节也有点疼，“像是没精打采”。
On January 16, Wang Tianrong found that Yu Guanrong not only did not get better cold, cough, but also a little wheezing, a little pain on his joints, "like listless."
一量体温，发烧到38.4摄氏度。
A temperature, fever to 38.4 degrees Celsius.
1月17日一早，他们去协和医院，挂了普通门诊，还拍了片子，医生告诉他们，俞关荣的肺部有感染，要打针，“连着3天，打3支头孢”。
In the early morning of January 17, they went to Concorde Hospital, hung up a general clinic and took a film. The doctors told them that Yu Guanrong had an infection in his lungs and needed an injection.
然而，打针后，俞关荣的身体没有一点好转的迹象。
However, after the injection, Yu Guanrong's body did not show any signs of improvement.
王天蓉后来后悔不已，当时，她让丈夫找医生换成进口药打，但俞关荣不肯，说“买点维C银翘片，煮点红糖水在家里喝”。
When Wang regretted it later, she told her husband to replace it with imported medicine, but Yu refused, saying "Buy some vitamin C silver warp and cook some brown sugar water at home."
“当时我们在协和看病，提都没提，什么发热门诊，什么新冠状肺炎，根本都没有往上面想。
"We were at the Concorde, and we didn't mention anything about the fever clinic or the new coronary pneumonia.
”王天蓉说。
"said Wang.
俞关荣生病的这几日，也是武汉疫情通报的空白期。
Yu Guanrong's illness these days, is also the Wuhan epidemic information gap period.
1月12日至1月17日，武汉卫健委称，无新增病例。
From January 12 to January 17, Wuhan Health Commission said there were no new cases.
1月19日，武汉通报一夜新增136名患者，不过新闻说：传染性不强，疫情可防可控。
On January 19, Wuhan announced the addition of 136 patients overnight, but the news said: infectious, preventable and controllable.
直到1月22日，王天蓉发现丈夫的病情开始加重，高烧到39摄氏度，去协和医院再次看病时，丈夫坐在板凳上，头倚墙，“咂着嘴巴喘气”。
Until January 22, Wang Tianrong found that her husband's illness began to worsen, with a high fever of 39 degrees Celsius. When he went to Concorde Hospital to see him again, the husband sat on the bench with his head against the wall and "smacked his mouth and gasped."
但这次，医生让她马上到发热门诊看病。
But this time, the doctor asked her to see the fever clinic immediately.
医生让俞关荣去打两天针。
The doctor asked Yu Guanrong to take two shots.
23日，武汉市封城，市内没有地铁与公交车，她只好和俞关荣骑共享单车去看病。
23, Wuhan, the city closed, there is no subway and bus, she and Yu Guanrong ride a bicycle to see a doctor.
王天蓉看见喘气的老伴将单车骑得左右摇摆，像扭麻花一样。
Wang Tianrong saw his panting mate swinging his bike from side to side like a twist of hemp.
第二天是除夕，女儿送他们到红十字会医院。
The next day was New Year's Eve and my daughter took them to the Red Cross hospital.
王天蓉说，医院人挨人，连坐的位置都很难找。
Wang Tianrong said that the hospital people were people, even sitting in the location are very difficult to find.
他烧到39.8摄氏度，不想讲话，坐在一个不会吹到风的地方，头靠着墙。
He burned to 39.8 degrees Celsius, didn't want to talk, sat in a windless place with his head against the wall.
那天下中雨，王天蓉打着伞站到外面，队伍很长，半天动一个，跟前面人贴着，人都急死了。
When it was raining, Wang Tianrong stood outside with an umbrella. The line was long, moving one for half a day.
上午10点多钟去的，打完针到凌晨4点多钟才回家。
I went in at more than 10 am and didn't come home until after 4 am after the injection.
王天蓉说，自己怀疑老伴可能就是在那段时间感染的。
Wang said he suspected his wife might have contracted the infection at that time.
1月26日，她陪着俞关荣去武汉市红十字会医院拍CT，医生告诉他们，俞关荣“双肺感染很严重”，当时，俞关荣已没有了上楼梯的力气。
On January 26, she accompanied Yu Guanrong to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to take a CT, doctors told them Yu Guanrong "two lung infections very serious," when Yu Guanrong no longer have the strength to go up stairs.
郝振海给他打电话时，俞关荣直言“太难受了”，每两分钟就要喝一口水，将口腔里的黏痰压下去，“否则呼吸不畅通”。
When Hao Zhenhai called him, Yu Guanrong bluntly said "too bad," every two minutes to drink a mouthful of water, the mucus in the mouth down, "otherwise the breathing is not smooth.
27日，他已经不能自己穿袜子和裤子，喘得厉害，平时5分钟的路，走了半个小时，“脚都抬不上车了”。
27, he can not wear their own socks and pants, panting hard, usually five minutes walk, half an hour, "feet can not lift up the car.
王天蓉曾多次向医院、社区求助，希望能将俞关荣安排住院，都没有结果。
Wang Tianrong many times to the hospital, the community, hoping to be able to arrange Yu Guanrong hospitalization, all without results.
1月29日，在朋友帮助下，俞关荣终于住进武汉市第六医院，王天蓉松了口气，说“心里的铁坨掉地上了”，她跑了3条街给老伴买了面吃，但没想到，那是自己见他的最后一面。
On January 29, with the help of friends, Yu Guanrong finally moved into Wuhan Sixth Hospital. Wang Tianyong let out a sigh of relief and said, "The iron tuo in my heart fell." She ran three blocks to buy noodles for his wife.
22月6日，俞关荣去世的消息很快在救援圈传开。
On June 6, news of Yu's death quickly spread through the rescue circle.
得知消息，64岁的张建民哭了一上午。
Zhang Jianmin, 64, cried all morning after hearing the news.
张建民是长江救援队的第二任队长。
Zhang Jianmin is the second captain of the Changjiang Rescue Team.
他说，老俞从不发脾气，讲义气，总是笑眯眯的，“大家都很喜欢他”。
He said that Lao Yu never lost his temper, said the righteousness, always smiling, "we all like him."
2010年，俞关荣在网上召集大家成立一支救援队，“相互传授一些救人经验。
In 2010, Yu called online to form a rescue team to "teach each other some experience in saving lives."
”张建民回忆，当时有100多人加入了救援队，俞关荣以全票当选队长。
Zhang recalled that more than 100 people joined the rescue team and Yu Guanrong was elected captain by a unanimous vote.
据武汉市水上公安局统计，2010年以前，武汉市平均每年都会发生100多起溺亡事故。
Before 2010, Wuhan city had an average of more than 100 drownings, according to the Wuhan Municipal Water Public Security Bureau.
2010年到2013年，这个数字下降到每年60起左右，2014年，溺亡事故减少到了20多起。
Between 2010 and 2013, the number fell to around 60 per year, and in 2014, the number of drowning incidents decreased to more than 20.
张建民说，以前大家都是凭借一腔热情救人，“没有掌握科学的救援方法”。
Zhang Jianmin said that before everyone is relying on a cavity of enthusiasm to save people, "do not grasp the scientific rescue method."
俞关荣想找到一套救援体系。
Yu wants to find a rescue system.
54岁的郝振海是长江救援队培训部的负责人。
Hao Zhenhai, 54, is in charge of training for the Yangtze rescue team.
俞关荣带他一起去北京参加应急救援课程，去红十字会做志愿者，学习急救知识，“我们学完后，再去教别人”。
Yu took him to Beijing to take part in an emergency rescue course, to the Red Cross as a volunteer, to learn first aid knowledge, "we finish, then go to teach others.
俞关荣说：“一个救援队单在长江里救人还是不全面，应该把培训搞上去，两条腿一起走。
"A rescue team that rescues people along the Yangtze River is still incomplete," Yu said. "We should train them and walk on two legs together.
”培训的第一节课就是心肺复苏。
The first lesson in training is cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
3心肺复苏一直是他心里最深处的“疙瘩”。
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation has always been the deepest "knot in one's heart."
2005年，俞关荣的儿子在上班时搬电扇，意外触电身亡，死时只有23岁。
In 2005, Yu Guanrong's son carried an electric fan to work and died of an electric shock when he was 23 years old.
“这件事对他的打击非常大。
"It was a very hard blow to him.
”王天蓉记得，俞关荣呆呆坐在沙发上，3天不吃不喝，任由眼泪和鼻涕流。
Yu Guanrong sat on the sofa for three days without eating or drinking, leaving tears and a runny nose in his mouth.
很长一段时间，他坐公交车时哭，下雨时哭，半夜时哭，他总想，如果有人给心脏骤停的儿子做心肺复苏，儿子可能就不会死了。
For a long time he cried when he was on a bus, when it rained, and when he cried in the middle of the night.
他一个人去登珠峰，他说，那里的山离天最近，爬到顶峰，就能跟儿子离得更近一些。
He went alone to Mount Everest, where the mountains were closest to the sky and where he could climb to the top, he said.
在珠峰大本营，俞关荣发现优秀的登山者都提前做好了各种应急预案，他们看起来最不怕死，其实他们最尊重生命，他们会用一切办法“活下去”。
At Everest's base camp, Yu found that the best climbers had prepared contingency plans in advance. They seemed the least afraid of death.
“登山改变了他。
"Mountaineering changed him.
”王天蓉说。
"said Wang.
他感觉“还有很多事要做。
He felt that "there was still a lot to do.
”长江救援队的队友成了俞关荣的第一批学生。
Team-mates of the Yangtze River rescue team became Yu Guanrong's first students.
队员们救过人，也眼睁睁看过生命在自己手中离去。
The players saved lives and watched them leave at their own hands.
2002年，他们救过1个溺水的大学生，捞上岸后，郝振海眼看着学生的脸色从青到黑，十几分钟后，他的鼻子、嘴巴开始流血，等急救医生赶到，一摸颈动脉，已没有生命迹象。
After they rescued a drowning college student in 2002, Hao Zhenhai watched his students bleed from blue to black. A few minutes later, his nose and mouth began to bleed until the emergency doctor arrived and touched the carotid artery.
医生问他，给做心肺复苏了吗？“不会做，不敢做！”郝振海说，那时他只会拨打120。
The doctor asked him if he had cardiopulmonary resuscitation? "No, no!" Hao said, then he would call 120.
后来，大家开始培训急救课程。
Later, people began to train first aid courses.
郝振海培训很紧张，生怕讲错，俞关荣鼓励他，你只管讲，讲错了我给你纠正，你要是不讲，永远也上不了台。
Hao Zhenhai training is very nervous, afraid of making a mistake, Yu Guanrong encouraged him, you can speak, tell wrong I correct you, if you do not speak, you will never get off the stage.
后来，郝振海每年都讲个几百场，“徒弟教徒弟。
Later, Hao Zhenhai spoke hundreds of times a year.
”他们不再只是湿着脚在江边了，他们去学校进社区，教居民如何防火防触电，教老人如何预防心血管疾病，应对出血与烫伤。
Instead of just wet their feet on the river, they went to school to teach residents how to prevent electric shocks, how to prevent cardiovascular disease, and how to deal with bleeding and burns.
在俞关荣看来，每挽救一个生命，都是在挽救一个家庭。
In Yu's view, every life saved is to save a family.
他的目标是“让城市因溺水而死亡的家庭悲剧减到最少”。
His goal is to "minimize the number of family tragedies in the city caused by drowning."
俞关荣还倡导器材优先的救援理念。
Yu also advocated the equipment priority rescue concept.
他说，贸然下水救人很容易遭遇危险，他提倡救人时要学会用竹竿、救生圈、抛绳包等器材，紧急时，一个塑料水壶、一块泡沫、一只排球，甚至一根手指粗的树枝都能发挥作用。
He said it was easy to jump into the water to save people. He called for saving lives by learning to use bamboo poles, life buoys and rope-throwing kits. In an emergency, a plastic kettle, a bubble, a volleyball and even a finger-thick twig all work.
在他看来，只有保护好自己的生命，才能救人。
In his view, only to protect their own lives, can save people.
仅2014年一年，他自己就救过52个落水者。
In 2014 alone, he saved 52 people from drowning.
2014年5月起，长江救援队推出值守制度，在8个值守点，定时定点值守。
Since May 2014, the Changjiang Rescue Team has been rolling out the watch system, with regular fixed-point duty at eight duty stations.
如今，两江四岸有20个常规值守点。
Today, there are 20 conventional posts on the four banks of the two rivers.
中国人民大学教授任剑涛曾评价长江救援队，超越了个人英雄主义，把个人救助深化为具有现代感的组织化行为。
Ren Jiantao, a professor at Renmin University of China, has appraised the Changjiang rescue team, transcending personal heroism and deepening personal aid into a modern-day organized act.
俞关荣还将目光投向了国外。
Yu also set his sights on foreign countries.
2012年，周汉明接到世界冰泳协会邀请，去白令海峡参加接力赛。
In 2012, Zhou was invited by the World Ice-Swimming Association to participate in the relay race in the Bering Strait.
周汉明起初不想去，俞关荣劝他，比赛中，国外的游泳者会采取一些应急的救援措施，“你跟他们接触，就能看得到，学得到。
Zhou did not want to go, Yu Guanrong advised him, the foreign swimmers will take some emergency measures, "you contact them, you can see, can learn.
”“他走早了，他如果还有10年……”周汉明说。
"He left early, if he had ten years..." Zhou said.
4俞关荣住院后，两位老人都度过了人生中最漫长的9天。
After Yu Guanrong was hospitalized, both old people spent the longest nine days of their lives.
直到俞关荣死去，王天蓉也没能见他一眼。
Not until Yu Guanrong died did Wang Tian Rong not see him.
她只能在电话里听着老伴的声音越来越微弱。
All she could do was listen to her partner's feeble voice on the phone.
住院第3天，俞关荣给老伴打电话，口气很艰难，他说，我离不开呼吸机，又站不起来，手也没劲，因为医护太忙，我的尿盆和便盆她们都来不及倒，你能不能进来帮帮我？“我一听他说话的口气，我都急死了。
On the third day of hospitalization, Yu called his wife in a very difficult tone. He said, 'I couldn't get away from the ventilator, I couldn't stand up, my hands were dull,' because I was too busy to take care of my urinal and potty.
骑着车子就往医院赶。
I rode to the hospital.
”但护士不让家属进入病房，她只能买两个脸盆，递进去，让老伴代替便盆使用。
But the nurse refused to let the family into the room, so she had to buy two basins and offer them to her wife instead.
俞关荣死后，王天蓉发现，递进去的脸盆和毛巾都干净如新，连抽纸巾都没动过。
After Yu died, Wang Tianrong found that the washbasins and towels put in were as clean as new.
这让王天蓉感到痛苦，他那么爱干净的一个人。
This makes Wang Tianrong feel pain, he loves a clean person so much.
每天要洗头、洗澡，上班前，还要用水将头发打顺再走。
Wash your hair every day, bathe, and before you go to work, use water to smooth your hair before walking.
吃水果，洗干净后还要放到盐水里浸泡。
Eat fruit and soak in salt water after washing.
临走前两天，他电话里说，快去给他买成人纸尿裤。
Two days before he left, he said on the phone to buy him adult diapers.
70岁的王天蓉哭着去超市找纸尿裤。
70-year-old Wang went to the supermarket crying for diapers.
她说，没用过这个东西，不知道长什么样。
She said she hadn't used it and didn't know what it looked like.
她提着纸尿裤，央求护士让自己进病房，再次被拒绝。
She carried diapers, begged the nurse to let herself into the ward, and was again refused.
说到这些，她不停地哭起来，在电话里对记者说：“我觉得他心理上受的煎熬，比那个病可能还要难受。
"I think his mental ordeal is worse than that," she told reporters over the phone, crying.
”直到生命的最后时刻，王天蓉也不知道，丈夫是否真的死于新冠肺炎。
Until the last moment of his life, Wang did not know whether his husband had really died of pneumonia.
她曾电话叮嘱俞关荣，让他请医院做核酸检测，俞关荣说，医生告诉他不需要做，肯定是。
She called Yu Guanrong and asked him to take a nucleic acid test. Yu said the doctor told him he didn't need to do it.
2月4日，俞关荣电话交代遗愿，声音很慢很弱，老伴都不太听得清楚。
On February 4, Yu Guanrong telephone to confess his last wishes, the voice is very weak, the wife is not very clear.
他叮嘱王天蓉，要好好保重自己，自己临走也不要抢救，不要切喉管切气管，把骨灰洒在龙王庙外的江水里。
He advised Wang Tian Rong to take good care of himself, do not save himself before going, do not cut the pipe cut trachea, the ashes sprinkled outside the Dragon King Temple in the river.
那里位于汉江与长江交汇处，生前，他常常在这里游泳，也在这里挽救了很多生命。
It was at the confluence of the Han and Yangtze rivers, where he used to swim and saved many lives.
王天蓉说，俞关荣喜欢唱歌、唱戏，京剧、越剧、黄梅戏，他都会唱。
Yu likes singing, singing, Beijing Opera, Yueju opera, Huangmei opera, he can sing, said Wang.
他还会跳舞，会拉手风琴、二胡。
He can dance, play accordion and erhu.
郝振海说，“只要哪里有灾难，他扛着包就走。
"Wherever there is disaster, he carries the bag and goes," Hao said.
”2015年，“东方之星”沉没，俞关荣一大早联系队员，赶去救人。
"In 2015, when Orient Star sank, Yu Guanrong contacted his team members early in the morning to save lives.
2016年，湖北多地暴发洪水，俞关荣开着私家车，带着冲锋舟，帮忙去转移灾民。
In 2016, floods erupted in many parts of Hubei Province, with Yu Guanrong driving a private car, with zodiac boats, to help evacuate the victims.
郝振海至今记得，他两脚站在水中，背着灾民上岸的场面。
Hao remembers standing with his feet in the water, carrying the victims ashore.
“他这一生挽救了很多生命。
"He saved many lives in his life.
”周汉明说，但老俞总说救人是一件“很正常的事情”。
But Lao Yu said saving lives was a "very normal thing," Zhou said.
俞关荣的微博名为“大磉”。
Yu Guanrong's micro-blog called "Big Magic".
有朋友曾问他网名的来由，他解释，“磉”是柱子底下石礅和垫脚石，寓意为中流砥柱，坚固、四平八稳。
A friend once asked him the reason for the name of the net. He explained that "Wen" was a stone post and a stepping stone under the pillar.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
长江从此少了一位救援者。
The Yangtze River has since lost a rescuer.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "长江从此少了一位救援者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "2月6日上午9时30分，他没有憋过那口气";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at 9.30 a.m. on 6 February.
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
