金银潭护士自述：我们一起加油吧！因为我想家了。
Gold and Silver Pool Nurse Self-talk: Let's cheer up together! Because I'm homesick.
。
.
吴蕴博。
Wu Yun-bo.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
从1月22号开始，宝莉就在武汉金银潭医院支援。
Since January 22, Polaroid has been providing support at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
她之前的工作也和养老、死亡有关，这次来到金银潭救助病人，可能也是冥冥之中，上天的安排吧。
Her previous work is also related to old age, death, this time came to the gold and silver pool to save the sick, may also be in the dark, God's arrangement.
文| 吴蕴博最后一次聊天的时候，宝莉告诉我，她的父亲两年前因为车祸去世了，母亲也在去年年末病逝。
When Wu Yun-bo last spoke, Polly told me that her father died in a car accident two years ago and that her mother died late last year.
今年的新年计划，本来是准备好好祭拜一下他们，也想为在世的公公婆婆好好尽孝。
This year's New Year's resolution was meant to be a good sacrifice for them, but also for the living father-in-law good filial piety.
聊了好多次，她都对我说，“我们其实没有那么惨，反正我是觉得还好，可能我这个武汉人天生比较乐观吧。
Many times, she said to me, "we are not so sad, anyway I feel good, maybe I am a Wuhan people born optimistic.
”以下是她的自述：不报名的话，我自己心里都过不去我是土生土长的武汉青山人，今年四十岁了，做护士十七年。
Here is what she says: 'If I don't sign up, I can't bear to think that I'm a native of Wuhan Green Mountain.
之前我在一家综合医院做门诊护士，这次因为疫情来到金银潭医院的重症病房增援。
I worked as an out-patient nurse at a general hospital, and this time came to the intensive care unit of the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital.
22日一大早，医院的领导就在群里发信息，征召去大医院支援疫情的志愿者。
In the early morning of the 22nd, the leaders of the hospital sent messages in the group and called up volunteers for the big hospital to support the outbreak.
我老公一听到这个消息，是坚决反对的。
When my husband heard the news, he resolutely opposed it.
他觉得我一大把年纪了，为了这个事冒生命危险，很不值得，这个应该是年轻人们去干的事儿。
He felt that I was old enough to risk my life for it. It was not worth it. It was supposed to be the work of young people.
但我还是报名了，我自己觉得身为一个党员，不报名的话，都不用别人说，我自己心里都过不去。
But I still signed up, I think as a party member, do not sign up, do not have to say, my own heart can not pass.
我一开始报名的时候想，如果被选中，我多半会被分配到离我家比较近的那家大医院，说不定隔三差五还能回来看看。
When I first signed up, I thought if I was selected, I'd probably be assigned to the big hospital near my home, and maybe come back a few days from now.
22日上午报名，中午我们领导就通知我被选上了，下午就让我准备出发，快走的时候我才知道原来去的是金银潭。
On the morning of the 22nd, our leader announced that I had been selected. In the afternoon, I was ready to start.
走之前，我老公对我有挺多怨气的，也不怎么搭理我。
Before I left, my husband had a lot of grudges against me and didn't pay much attention to me.
我没管他，吃完饭，简单打包了一套衣服，提了包转身就出了家门。
I left him alone, finished my meal, packed a simple suit of clothes, took the bag and turned around and left the house.
外面很冷，一股寒风吹过来，我开始回想最近听到的消息。
It was cold outside and a cold wind was blowing, and I began to think back to what I had heard recently.
虽然那时社会上还没有广泛关注这次疫情，但在各大医院工作的朋友和同事身边，都有被感染的医务工作者。
Although the epidemic was not widely noticed in the community at the time, infected health workers were among the friends and colleagues working in major hospitals.
而且最近门诊的病人也增多，我开始有点担心，怕自己没有足够多传染病方面的经验，然后被感染。
And with the recent increase in out-patient visits, I began to worry that I didn't have enough experience with infectious diseases to get infected.
走出小区，坐上车，感觉家离我越来越远。
Out of the community, sit in the car, feel that home away from me more and more.
虽然心里很忐忑，但是也有义不容辞的感觉，就好像战士要上战场一样。
Although the heart is perturbed, but also a sense of obligation, as if the soldiers to go to the battlefield.
之前非典爆发的时候，我刚工作没多久，而且那时武汉的情况比较轻，基本体会不到非常时期的氛围。
Before the outbreak of SARS, I just worked for a short time, and then Wuhan relatively light, basic experience of the unusual period of the atmosphere.
这一次责任终于落到了我的肩上。
This time the responsibility finally fell to me.
车走在路上，我也没有什么多余的想法，安慰自己估计也就一两周吧，我们应该就可以把这个病控制。
I don't have any extra thoughts when I'm on the road, and I think it's only a week or two before we can get the disease under control.
之后说不定还能赶在元宵之前回家，再和家人多聚聚。
Maybe I can get home before the Lantern Festival and get together with my family.
快到傍晚的时候，我收到老公发来的短信道歉。
Towards evening, I received a text message from my husband apologizing.
他说之前态度不好，应该全力支持我的工作。
He said he had a bad attitude and should give me his full support.
想到马上要到一个陌生的环境工作，又要面对未知的病毒，和各种各样的挑战，我一时有点控制不住自己，掉了眼泪。
The thought of working in a strange environment, facing an unknown virus, and all sorts of challenges, made me lose control of myself for a moment and shed tears.
我们22号晚上八点到了金银潭。
We arrived on the 22nd at eight o'clock in the evening.
一下车，还没来得及清行李，就立即被排到了夜班，开始了工作。
As soon as he got off the train, he was put on the night shift and began to work before he could clear his luggage.
雨中的金银潭医院第二天早上，我听到了封城的消息，有些惊慌。
The Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in the Rain The next morning I heard the news of the closure of the city.
从我一入住，就有很多新住进来的病人，十几个空余的床位很快就填满了。
From the moment I checked in, there were many new patients, and a dozen or so vacant beds soon filled up.
我看到窗外有很多救护车，将转运的病人一床一床的送过来。
I saw ambulances out of the window, delivering beds to patients in transit.
我身边也多了很多省内其它医院过来增援的医疗人员。
I also around a lot of other hospitals in the province to strengthen the medical personnel.
我发现实际情况比我预期的要严重得多，有了一种之后都很难回家的感觉。
I found the situation to be much more serious than I had expected, with a feeling that it would be difficult to go home.
对于疫情初期的记忆 From 云林街十七号             00:00 01:28       我很想念以前的生活这种不好的感觉很快就被工作上的忙碌所取代。
Memories of the early days of the epidemic From Seventeen Fromm Street 00: 00 01: 28 I miss the bad feelings of my past life and are quickly replaced by the hustle and bustle of work.
开始几天的工作是最紧张的，科室里新到的病人需要逐个确认情况，我自己也需要适应这里的工作节奏。
The first few days are the most stressful, new patients in the department need to confirm the situation one by one, I need to adapt to the pace of work here.
那段时间，算上交接班，我每天要工作十个小时左右。
At that time, I had to work about ten hours a day, counting the shift.
医院的日程备忘录除此之外，因为那是疫情爆发之初，很多物资和后勤都没有跟上。
The hospital's schedule memo was in addition to that, as it was at the beginning of the outbreak and many supplies and logistics had not kept pace.
防护服的质量层次不齐，遇到质量不好的那一批，我们需要自己用胶带贴合。
The quality level of protective clothing is uneven, we need to use adhesive tape to attach ourselves to the batch of poor quality.
遇到一次性隔离服短缺，我们得将平常的手术服穿在里面，每次用完再仔细消毒。
In the event of a shortage of one-time isolation suits, we have to wear them in our usual clothes and disinfect them carefully each time we use them.
因为排班的磨合，还有三层防护所需要的更衣、消毒的时间，我好几次都错过了吃饭。
I missed my meal several times because of the running of the shift, the change of clothes needed for the three layers of protection, and the time to disinfect.
冰冷的饭菜难以下咽，有好几个深夜，我只能吃一些自己之前医院里送过来的零食和泡面。
Cold food was hard to swallow, and for several nights I had to eat snacks and noodles from my previous hospital.
我所在的重症科室，有6个护士和2个医生同时上班，负责30来个病人。
My intensive care unit, with six nurses and two doctors working at the same time, is responsible for about 30 patients.
病人的床位按照病情的严重程度依次编号，最严重的4-5个病人由2个护士集中看护。
The beds of patients are numbered in order of severity of illness, with the most severe cases being under the intensive care of two nurses.
如果我们无法控制他们的病情，会将他们送到ICU。
If we can't control their condition, we send them to ICU.
病情减轻的，我们会将他们转到其它的轻症科室。
If their condition is alleviated, we will refer them to other light units.
大概是26号左右，我所在科室的所有病床都住满了，我的工作也逐渐变得规律起来。
It was about the 26th and all the beds in my section were full and my work was becoming regular.
算上消毒和交接班的时间，我们一般一天工作8-9个小时。
When disinfection and hand-over time are included, we usually work 8 to 9 hours a day.
每周看个人的排班情况，可以得到一天左右的休息。
You can get a day or so off by looking at your shift schedule every week.
每天需要穿的防护服让我工作起来特别的不方便。
The protective clothing I need to wear every day makes it particularly inconvenient for me to work.
平常一些简单的动作，在防护服下都变得十分缓慢与困难。
Usually some simple actions, in the protective clothing has become very slow and difficult.
更加不便的是上厕所，所以我们早餐都不敢喝稀饭和牛奶，休息的时候也不敢多喝水，怕万一内急，浪费一套防护服不说，还耽误了很长的工作时间。
Even more inconvenient is to go to the toilet, so we dare not drink porridge and milk for breakfast, rest time do not dare to drink more water, in case of emergency, waste a suit of protective clothing, but also delay a long working time.
更换防护服其实身体上的疲倦还能承受，更大的压力来自于心理的恐惧。
Change protective clothing in fact physical fatigue can bear, more pressure from the psychological fear.
我每天都会给自己量两次体温，每隔几天都会拍CT来确认自己有没有被感染。
I take my temperature twice a day and take a CT every few days to make sure I'm not infected.
我上一次拍CT的时候，显示肺部有些炎症，放射科的主任还打电话过来，让我多休息几天。
The last time I took a CT scan, I showed some inflammation in my lungs, and the radiologist called and asked me to take a few more days off.
之后的CT结果比较乐观，应该不是病毒感染。
After the CT results are more optimistic, should not be viral infection.
虽然还是很怕，但我又开始工作了。
I was still afraid, but I began to work again.
我最近很想念以前的生活，无忧无虑，挺自由的，但是现在这一切都离我好远。
I miss my old life recently, carefree, quite free, but now all this is far from me.
死亡在这里很常见，但我们选择坚强与平常的工作相比，在金银潭工作的最大不同是，我们一线护士也同样承担着护工的角色。
Death is common here, but the biggest difference we make in working with gold and silver is that our front-line nurses also take on the role of care giver.
所以这让我和一些年老的患者，有更多相处的机会。
So it gives me more chances to get along with some older patients.
有一位双目失明的大爷，他的生活完全没有办法自理，我们需要给他喂饭，给他负责大小便。
There is a blind grandfather, his life is completely unable to take care of himself, we need to feed him, responsible for his urine and urine.
他虽然双目失明，但是来的时候非常精神，神志也很清楚。
Blind as he was, he came in spirit and clear in mind.
七十多岁了身体还很有劲儿，能自己做的事儿都自己做。
In their seventies, they are still strong enough to do all the things they can do themselves.
每次我们帮他做，他都会说，“谢谢，辛苦你们了，实在是不好意思给你们添麻烦了”，因为他嗓门大，所以我对他印象很深。
Every time we do it for him, he says, "Thank you. I'm sorry to bother you." Because of his loud voice, I was impressed.
但是当我休息了两天，再回来的时候，他的病情就突然一下恶化了。
But when I came back after a two-day rest, his condition suddenly deteriorated.
我们给他身体装上了很多仪器，也很快把他转到了ICU。
We fitted him with many instruments and quickly transferred him to the ICU.
我隔着走廊的玻璃看他，感觉他好像瞬间没了精神。
I looked at him through the glass in the hallway and felt as if he had lost his nerve in a moment.
那是我最后一次见他，听其它科室的同事说，转过去没几天，他就去世了。
That was the last time I saw him. I heard colleagues from other departments say he died within a few days of turning around.
死亡在这里很常见，但是与以往不同的是，这里没有家属，也没有告别仪式，眼泪和痛苦也并没有随着一个个生命的流逝而到来。
Death is common here, but unlike in the past, there is no family, no farewell ceremony, and tears and pain do not come with the passing of life.
做完一些基本处理，我们医护人员会把死者包起来，放在外走廊，或者其它患者看不到的地方，然后打电话给殡仪馆。
After some basic treatment, our paramedics would wrap the dead, put them in the hallway or out of sight of the patients, and call the funeral home.
我也不知道怎么形容那种感觉，就是很凄凉吧。
I don't know how to describe that feeling, but it is very bleak.
每次在病房听到病人和他们的家属打电话，我都觉得他们挺可怜的，也会想到我现在在读初三的女儿，和家里的老人。
Every time I hear the patients and their families on the phone in the ward, I think they are pitiful, and I think of my daughter in junior high school and the old people at home.
我女儿在开始的几天，每次和我打电话都会嚎啕大哭，好像我再也回不去了一样。
My daughter wailed every time she called me for the first few days, as if I couldn't go back.
我只有给她讲病房里那些轻症病人的故事，说有几个大叔都在病房里面每天滑稽地做体操，还有一个大爷在打太极，打完太极又拉着我们医护人员开玩笑，感谢我们。
I had to tell her the stories of the sick people in the ward, how many uncles did their gymnastics in the ward every day, and one of them was playing tai chi.
只有这样，女儿才能轻松地接受我这么长时间都待在一线，不能回家。
Only in this way can my daughter easily accept that I have been in the front line for so long that I cannot go home.
我真的希望她可以平静地对待这件事情，并且学会理性思考。
I really hope she can take it calmly and learn to think rationally.
现在，她的担心没有那么多了，只是会在挂电话之前说，“妈妈，你要好好的！”整个过程，我很想感谢我家里的几位老人，他们承担了很多我的家庭责任。
Now she doesn't have that much to worry about, except that before hanging up, she says, "Mom, you have to be fine!" Throughout the process, I'd like to thank the older members of my family who have taken on so many of my family responsibilities.
只有他们没事，我每天才能安心地去工作。
Only if they're okay can I go to work in peace every day.
我也经常会在朋友圈刷到一些小视频，里面有一些医生嚎啕大哭，小护士崩溃的内容。
I also often brush in the circle of friends some small video, there are some doctors wailing, the collapse of nurses content.
但在我们科室没有这种情况。
But that is not the case in our department.
可能是武汉人天生的乐观，也可能是从各个医院支援来的同事，之前就已经做了一些心理建设吧。
Wuhan people may be born optimistic, or from a variety of hospital support colleagues, have done some psychological construction before bar.
平常遇到那些比较难的时刻，我们科室的护士们都会互相打气，逐渐也形成了一种精神力量。
Usually encounter those difficult times, our department nurses will encourage each other, and gradually formed a spiritual force.
作为医务工作者，我们需要坚强，社会也需要我们坚强。
As medical workers, we need to be strong, and society needs us to be strong.
这个世界没有如果但是我们都心里有数为了防止外界的细菌和病毒，医护人员的手机一律不让带进隔离病房。
There is no cell phone in the world If but we all know that to prevent germs and viruses from the outside world, medical staff are not allowed to bring their cell phones to the isolation ward.
所以对于疫情的宏观控制和数据的更新，我们甚至还没有外面的人了解到的及时。
So for the macro-control of the epidemic and the updating of data, we even do not have the outside people to understand the timely.
社会上因为数字的激增而造成了极大的恐慌，但作为医护人员，我不能慌。
There is a lot of panic in society because of the explosion of numbers, but as a health care worker, I can't panic.
我愿意相信的是，数字的逐步增长代表了系统性的救援在持续展开，有更多的人得到了医疗帮助。
I would like to believe that the gradual increase in numbers represents a continuation of a systematic relief effort, with more people receiving medical assistance.
我希望用自己的专业性让病人们安心。
I want to reassure patients with my expertise.
同时，对于我们在救援一线的医护来说，物资紧缺这个问题的确存在。
At the same time, there is a real shortage of supplies for our first line of care.
但当我看到医院里所有的行政人员都在为此不停地忙碌时，我又觉得我不应该有太多抱怨。
But I don't think I should have much to complain about when I see all the administrators in the hospital working on it all the time.
他们的工作已经很辛苦了。
They have worked very hard already.
对医院里的所有人来说，最重要的是病人都能得到救治，都能吃好。
For everyone in the hospital, the most important thing is that patients can be treated, can eat well.
而且令我欣慰的是，有很多志愿者的出现，为我们送上了需要的水果和生活物资，有一种众志成城的感觉，让我觉得很踏实。
And to my relief, there are a lot of volunteers for us to send the necessary fruits and supplies, there is a sense of unity of purpose, let me feel very secure.
宝莉的工牌最近网络上也有很多关于李文亮医生的报道，同为医护人员，我为李医生感到非常痛惜。
There have been many reports about Dr. Li Wenliang on the Internet recently. As a medical worker, I deeply regret Dr. Li.
我能理解大家现在的心态都不太好，会发表出一些比较情绪化的观点。
I can understand that everyone is not in a good mood, and will express some more emotional points of view.
但作为专业的医护人生，我觉得在传染病初期，个人对病毒的了解真的是非常有限的。
But as a professional healthcare professional, I think in the early days of infectious disease, personal knowledge of the virus is really very limited.
我们很难预料到病毒未来的走势的，尤其是这种传染性很强、又是可以通过呼吸道传播的病毒。
It is difficult to predict the future of the virus, especially this highly contagious virus that can be transmitted through the respiratory tract.
这个世界没有如果，但是目前我了解到的，无论是集体和个人，都在拼尽全力对抗疫情，这也是现在最重要的事。
There is no ifs in the world, but what I've learned so far, both collectively and individually, is that we are doing everything we can to combat the epidemic, and that is the most important thing.
最近这两天，疫情的爆发得到了有效的控制，很多疑似人员也得到了有效隔离，我们科室也有很多病人转为轻症。
Over the past two days, the outbreak has been effectively contained, many suspected personnel have been effectively quarantined, and many patients in our department have turned mild.
作为一线人员，我们都心里有数，也都会做好自己份内的事情，希望形势逐渐会变得更好。
As front-line personnel, we all know and will do their part, hope that the situation will gradually become better.
后记：从1月22日到现在，宝莉一直在金银潭医院的重症病房工作。
Postscript: From January 22 to the present, Polaroid has been working in the intensive care unit of Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
她告诉我，她希望疫情早点结束，大家又可以自由自在地生活。
She told me that she hoped the epidemic would end soon and that everyone would be free to live again.
稿件完成之前，宝莉朋友圈转发了最近湖北日报发的视频，她在下面写，“我们一起加油吧！因为我想家了。
Before the manuscript was finished, Polly's circle of friends forwarded a recent video from Hubei Daily, which she wrote below: "Let's cheer up! Because I'm homesick.
”（文中“宝莉”为化名）「相关文章」疫区日记 I我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”「我们是谁」我们是独立纪录片团队“云林街十七号”致力于记录疫情之下民间最真实的光景「征集活动」我们想要邀请你参与我们的创作，为我们提供湖北本地市民的一手素材城市和社区是如何消毒杀菌的？窗外的街道在此刻又是怎样的光景？出口封闭后您的居家生活是怎样的？只要是你在疫情期间曾经拍摄过的视频我们都欢迎你们的投稿「投稿方式」来稿至邮箱：774217664@qq.com标注“视频投稿”，并留下联系方式（请在邮件正文简单介绍一下各个视频的拍摄时间）也可以加我们工作人员的微信15827608198了解征集详情并答疑「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信点击“阅读原文”，报名参与“故事征集”。
We want to do something for this city. "" We live in the same house but we can't meet each other. "" Who are we? "We want to invite you to participate in our creations.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
金银潭护士自述：我们一起加油吧！因为我想家了。
Gold and Silver Pool Nurse Self-talk: Let's cheer up together! Because I'm homesick.
。
.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "金银潭护士自述：我们一起加油吧！因为我想家了。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“感觉家离我越来越远”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫区日记 I',。
A diary I & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情',。
We are from Wuhan and would like to do something with & apos; for this city.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
