“封城”之前逃离武汉，温州商人回乡隔离记。
"Shengcheng" before fleeing Wuhan, Wenzhou businessmen back home isolation.
吴晔婷毛晓琼刘冉。
Wu selected Mao Xiaoqiong Liu Ran.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
在武汉经商、务工、求学的温州人大约有18万。
Wuhan in the business, labor, study Wenzhou about 180,000 people.
春节前后，至少5万温州人从武汉等地返回温州。
Around the Spring Festival, at least 50,000 Wenzhou people returned to Wenzhou from Wuhan and other places.
他们中很多人一到家乡就进行了14天的隔离观察。
Many of them were quarantined for 14 days as soon as they arrived home.
有的是居家隔离，当地政府工作人员每天定时“查岗”，确认隔离者是否在家。
Some are isolated at home, where local government staff conduct regular "checks" every day to see if the quarantined are at home.
这些人员集中返乡，对当地疫情防控压力不言而喻。
These personnel return home, the local disease control pressure is self-evident.
后来的事实证明，浙江在防控上的提前警觉是必要的。
Later the fact that Zhejiang in the prevention and control of early warning is necessary.
乐清市卫健局局长和疾控中心主任因防控工作疏漏被免职，分管的副市长也受了处分。
The director of the Yueqing Health Bureau and the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were dismissed and the deputy mayor disciplined.
那些在外打拼的温州人，现在更关心什么时候可以出去，恢复正常的工作和事业。
Wenzhou people who are fighting outside are now more concerned about when they can go out and get back to their normal jobs and careers.
△ 新冠疫情中的武汉街头1月23日（腊月廿九）早上8点半，在武汉做服装生意的温州商人莱莱（化名），在睡梦中被父亲的电话吵醒，老人在电话里说：再不回来就回不来了！就在几个小时前，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通告，决定实行交通“封城”。
2007-3-1 15: 48 2007-09-23 09: 48 Wuhan, Wenzhou businessman (not his real name), who was engaged in the clothing business in Wuhan, was woken up by his father on the phone and the old man said on the phone that he would not be able to return.
莱莱和丈夫当机立断，迅速动身，赶在10点之前出了城。
Laila and her husband made a quick decision to leave town before ten o'clock.
一路上夫妻俩换着开车，回到温州家中时，已是午夜12点。
It was midnight when the couple drove back to their home in Wenzhou.
在武汉工作的黄坤（化名），则是在1月20日就离开了武汉，乘飞机返回温州。
Huang Kun, who works in Wuhan (not his real name), left Wuhan on January 20 and returned to Wenzhou by plane.
由于当时武汉轻松的氛围，直到离开时，他都没把疫情当一回事。
Because of the relaxed atmosphere in Wuhan at the time, he did not take the outbreak seriously until he left.
目前，在武汉经商、务工、求学的温州人大约有18万。
At present, there are about 180,000 Wenzhou people engaged in business, labor and education in Wuhan.
武汉也是除温州之外，温州人最聚集的城市。
Wuhan is also in addition to Wenzhou, Wenzhou is the most concentrated city.
根据媒体报道，春节之前，约2万人返回温州；从除夕（1月24日）开始到2月2日，10天内又有29000人从外地返温。
According to media reports, about 20,000 people returned to Wenzhou before the Spring Festival, and 29,000 people returned from the field during the 10-day period from New Year's Eve (January 24) to February 2.
莱莱夫妻二人，还有黄坤，正是这数万人当中的几分子。
Lailai and his wife, and Huang Kun, are just a few of the tens of thousands of people.
他们在此次疫情形势陡然升级之际，从武汉回到温州家乡，再在老家接受隔离观察的经历，既是数万离汉返温大军的一个缩影，也在微观上构成了温州接受武汉新冠疫情冲击的受力点。
Their experience of returning from Wuhan to Wenzhou and observing the outbreak in their hometown is both a microcosm of tens of thousands of troops returning to the Han Dynasty and a microcosm of Wenzhou's acceptance of the impact of Wuhan's new crown.
截至2月11日，温州尚有5115名密切接触者正在接受医学隔离观察，累计已解除医学观察的有6864人。
As of February 11, 5,115 people in Wenzhou were being medically quarantined, and 6,864 people had been released from medical observation.
温州的防控不仅有政府行为，几乎动员了政府全部力量，也有民间组织的积极参与，得到了从社区到家庭个人的快速响应。
Wenzhou's prevention and control not only has the government action, has mobilized the government's entire strength, but also has the civil society organization's active participation, obtains the community from the family individual quick response.
距离封城还有一个半小时1月18日以来，武汉市确诊新冠肺炎病例突然迅速增加，截至22日24时，已累计确诊400多例，且有17例死亡，疫情也已经蔓延至全国20多个省（区、市）。
Since January 18, one and a half hours before the closure of the city, Wuhan city confirmed a sudden rapid increase in cases of new crown pneumonia, as of 2400 as of 2400, with 17 deaths, the epidemic has spread to more than 20 provinces (districts, cities).
情势紧急，为切断病毒传播途径，武汉市发布了“封城令”：“自2020年1月23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, 2020, the city has temporarily suspended the operation of public transport, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport throughout the city. For no special reason, citizens should not leave Wuhan, and the airport and railway stations are temporarily closed.
”莱莱的爸爸看到这个新闻，立刻打来电话报信。
"When Laila's father saw the news, he immediately called to tell him.
莱莱和丈夫决定马上走。
Lale and her husband decided to leave at once.
作为一个90后，她长这么大还从来没听说哪个地方会出这样的政策。
As a 90-year-old, she had never heard of such a policy anywhere in her life.
她判断事态已经很严重了。
She judged the situation to be serious.
上午10点“封城”，留给他们的时间还有一个半小时。
"Seal the city" at 10 a. m., leaving them an hour and a half.
夫妻俩简单收拾了一下行李就出门。
The couple just packed up and went out.
一路有惊无险，他们幸运地赶在10点前出了城。
They were lucky enough to get out of town by ten o'clock.
两个人换着开车，没敢多停服务区，回到家里的时候，已经是半夜12点。
The two of them did not dare to stop in the service area, but by the time they got home it was twelve o'clock in the morning.
莱莱是在著名的汉正街做服装生意。
Laila is in the well-known Hanzheng Street clothing business.
汉正街位于汉口的繁华地带，是一条有着数百年历史的商业街，从小商品到服装、家纺用品，种类繁多，人气很旺。
Hancheng Street is located in the bustling area of Hankou. It is a commercial street with hundreds of years of history.
这里聚集了大量温州商人。
A large number of Wenzhou businessmen gathered here.
莱莱估计，光是在品牌服装城，就有至少1000家温商。
In Brand Clothing City alone, Mr. Lailey estimates, there are at least 1,000 temperance quotients.
很不幸，汉口成为此次新冠疫情首先爆发的地区。
Unfortunately, Hankou was the first region to experience a new crown outbreak.
疫源地华南海鲜市场，距离汉正街批发市场大约6公里，与华南眼镜城仅一街之隔。
Epidemic focus of South China Seafood Market, about 6 kilometers away from the Hanzheng Street Wholesale Market, and South China Glasgow City only one street away.
据媒体报道，眼镜城里的温商店铺，大概有20多家。
According to media reports, the temperature shop in Glasgow City, about 20.
△ 华南眼镜城莱莱认识的温州老乡，都回得比她早。
South China glasses city Lailai knew the Wenzhou Laoxiang, all returned earlier than her.
“因为20号左右就有一点新闻了，他们就都有点害怕。
"Because there's a little bit of news around the 20th and they're a little scared.
”正是在1月20日晚间，钟南山院士在接受央视主持人白岩松采访时，首次肯定新冠肺炎存在人传人。
It was in the evening of January 20 that Academician Zhong Nan Shan first confirmed the existence of human-to-human transmission of pneumonia in an interview with CCTV host Bai Yansong.
在武汉工作的温州苍南县人黄坤，就是在1月20日乘飞机返回温州的。
Huang Kun, from Cangnan County, Wenzhou, who works in Wuhan, flew back to Wenzhou on January 20.
黄坤所在的公司位于洪山区，离汉口较远。
Huang Kun's company is located in Hongshan, far from Hankou.
去年12月底，他就收到武汉本地同事的提醒：“汉口火车站尽量不要去，边上的海鲜市场出现了流感疫情”。
At the end of December, he received a reminder from his local Wuhan colleague: "Hankou railway station is trying not to go, the seafood market on the edge of an influenza epidemic."
1月初，又听到有家属在医院工作的朋友说：可能是跟之前SARS差不多的疫情出现。
In early January, friends with family members working in the hospital said: It could be a similar outbreak to the previous SARS outbreak.
“他当时还跟我说，这是内部消息，不要宣传，可能会带来恐慌。
"He told me it was inside information, not publicity, it could be scary.
”此时黄坤开始有点警觉。
Huang Kun began to feel a little alert.
但这期间，他还是行动如常，回温州前两天，还从武汉去了一趟宜昌。
But in the meantime, he still acts as usual, back to Wenzhou two days ago, but also from Wuhan to Yichang.
黄坤注意到，除了量体温，武汉市的公共场所并没有其他防控措施。
Huang noted that in addition to temperature measurement, Wuhan City's public places do not have other control measures.
或许正因为这种氛围，黄坤坦言，直到1月20日离开武汉的时候，也完全没把疫情当回事。
Perhaps because of this atmosphere, Huang admitted that the epidemic was not taken seriously until he left Wuhan on January 20.
12月30日前后，莱莱所在的业主群里，也有在医院工作的业主发出警告（李文亮医生在同学群里提醒大家注意防范，也是在12月30日）。
Around December 30, there were warnings from landlords working in the hospital in Lailai's neighborhood (Dr. Li Wenliang alerted the class to precautions, also on December 30).
那时候莱莱就买了口罩，只是没有戴。
At that time, Laila bought a mask, but she didn't wear it.
当时新闻报道并没有透露更多的信息，大家也不是很在意。
News reports at the time did not reveal more information, and people do not care very much.
莱莱说，她在汉正街一直都有观察，到1月22日，所有人才都戴上口罩，前一天都几乎没人戴。
Ms. Lailey said she had been on the lookout in Hancheng Street, and by January 22, all were wearing masks, which had been virtually unworn the previous day.
即便如此，莱莱还是没有立刻就走。
Even so, Laila did not leave immediately.
他们原计划是1月24日除夕当天回家，从武汉到温州约900公里，大概12个小时的车程，早上7点出门的话，到家刚好赶上年夜饭。
They had planned to return home on New Year's Eve on January 24, about 900 kilometers from Wuhan to Wenzhou, about 12 hours' drive, leaving home just in time for New Year's Eve.
直到父亲在1月23日早上看到新闻，打来电话催促，莱莱夫妻俩才匆忙启程。
It was not until his father read the news on the morning of January 23, when he called and urged, that the two hurried off.
隔离的春节莱莱和丈夫到家以后，就开始自我隔离。
When Laila and her husband got home for the isolated Spring Festival, they began to isolate themselves.
夫妻二人各住楼上的一间卧室，卧室都带着卫生间，可以完全不出门。
Both husband and wife live in a bedroom upstairs, bedroom with toilet, can not go out completely.
吃饭都由父母把饭菜送到门口，敲下门，他们再自己开门拿，“跟送牢饭一样的”。
Dinner was delivered to the door by the parents, who knocked on the door, and they opened the door for themselves.
他们有一个一岁多的儿子，夫妻俩平时在武汉打拼，孩子就留在家里由老人照看。
They have a son more than a year old, the couple usually fight in Wuhan, the children stay at home by the elderly care.
他们回来之后，连孩子面都没见，就直接把自己关在房间里。
When they returned, they shut themselves up in their rooms without seeing the children.
老人配合保密工作，孩子也并不知道他们回来。
The old man cooperated with the secrecy, and the child did not know they were back.
“天天跟他视频（通话），有时候在楼上说话声音大点，被他听到了，他就在那边喊妈妈，但就是找不到。
"Every day with him video (calls), sometimes upstairs to speak louder, he heard, he was there to call his mother, but could not find.
”在本该骨肉团聚的时刻，对年轻的妈妈来说，这是一个极大的考验。
"It was a great test for the young mother at a time when she should have been reunited.
如果心一软，开门见了儿子，可以想象，隔离将很难继续。
If the heart is soft, open the door to see the son, can imagine that isolation will be very difficult to continue.
莱莱的老家在乐清，是由温州代管的省辖县级市。
Lailai's hometown in Yueqing, by Wenzhou escrow of the provincial county-level city.
“其实当时，我们那边还没有针对武汉回来的人出台什么政策，我们做这些都是主动自觉，也怕万一染上了，传给家里的老人孩子。
"In fact, at that time, we did not have to Wuhan back to the people out of what policies, we do these are active, but also in the event of infection, to the family of the elderly and children.
”但没过几天，社区就打来电话，询问莱莱是否已经回家。
But a few days later, the community called to ask if Lailai had gone home.
“不知道他们是从什么渠道拿来的我们的电话。
"I don't know where they got our phone.
知道我们在家自我隔离以后，他们也比较安心，但还是差不多每天都会派人来家里给我们量体温。
They felt more at ease after we isolated ourselves at home, but they would send home almost every day to take our temperature.
”就在1月23日，莱莱从武汉返回温州的当天，温州市委市政府就开会部署：对近期回温的有武汉居住史、旅行史人员要排查“全落地”，逐村逐户明确责任人，严格实施医学观察、上门随访。
On January 23, the day Lailai returned to Wenzhou from Wuhan, the Wenzhou municipal government held a meeting to plan for the visit.
同日上午，浙江省政府紧急召开全省新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作视频会议，决定启动重大公共突发卫生事件一级响应。
On the morning of the same day, the Zhejiang provincial government held an emergency videoconference for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection in the province.
浙江也是在此次疫情中，全国最早启动一级响应的省份。
Zhejiang is also the first province in the country to initiate a first-level response to the epidemic.
事实上，早在1月21日，浙江省就开会部署了防控工作。
Indeed, as early as January 21, Zhejiang Province held a meeting to deploy prevention and control efforts.
当天下午，省政府主要领导专门到浙大一院召开疫情防控座谈会，将新冠疫情防控称为一场“硬仗大仗”。
In the afternoon, the provincial government led a special seminar on the prevention and control of the epidemic in Zhejiang University, calling the new crown disease prevention and control a "hard battle."
而在当时，浙江仅发现了5例疑似病例。
At the time, only five suspected cases were found in Zhejiang.
浙江省如临大敌，主要是因为浙江外出在湖北，尤其是在武汉经商、学习和工作的人员较多，春节前夕，这些人员集中返乡，对浙江省的疫情防控压力不言而喻。
Zhejiang Province as a great enemy, mainly because Zhejiang Province in Hubei, especially in Wuhan business, study and work more people, these people concentrated on the eve of the Spring Festival, these personnel return home, the disease prevention and control pressure on Zhejiang Province is self-evident.
后来的事实证明，浙江在防控上的提前警觉是必要的。
Later the fact that Zhejiang in the prevention and control of early warning is necessary.
截至2月12日，浙江省的确诊病例已达1131例，仅次于湖北、广东与河南，但无一例死亡。
As of February 12, 1,131 cases had been confirmed in Zhejiang Province, second only to Hubei, Guangdong and Henan, but none of them had died.
苍南县动作迅速。
Cangnan County moves quickly.
1月21日，黄坤回到温州第二天，户籍所在地苍南县钱库镇就给他父亲打电话，询问黄坤从武汉回来以后身体情况怎么样，有没有发热。
On January 21, Huang Kun returned to Wenzhou the next day, Cangnan County Qianku Town, where his household registration is located, called his father and asked Huang Kun how he was getting back from Wuhan and if he had any fever.
1月23号左右，黄坤居住地宜山镇要求他居家隔离。
Around January 23, Huangkun residential Yishan Town asked him to stay in isolation.
和莱莱夫妻俩一样，关在房间里，家人送饭。
Like Mr. and Mrs. Lilley, they were locked up in their rooms, with their families delivering food.
由当地政府工作人员和医务人员组成的二人小组，每天来给他量两次体温，并且询问有没有咳嗽和不舒服。
A two-person team of local government staff and medical staff came to take his temperature twice a day and asked if he had coughed or was sick.
这个时候，黄坤才意识到问题的严重性。
Only then did Huang realize the seriousness of the problem.
隔离期间，除他之外的家里人也不能出门。
The rest of the family, except him, were not allowed to go out during the isolation.
镇政府工作人员每天下午三四点会打来电话，确认是否在家，“我说在家，还要头探出去给他看一下”。
Township officials call in late afternoon to make sure they're at home. "I said I was at home and I'd lean out and show him."
黄坤的居家隔离到2月3日解除。
Mr. Huang's home was isolated until Feb. 3.
身在乐清的莱莱，则是从居家隔离中途又转为集中隔离。
In Yueqing, Leilai, from the separation of the middle of the family into a concentrated isolation.
居家隔离时，莱莱从新闻里发现，从1月28日开始，温州确诊病例突然迅速增加，连续三天新增病例都超过50个，而乐清是全温州确诊人数最多的县市。
When quarantined, Lailai found on the news that the number of confirmed cases in Wenzhou, the county with the largest number of confirmed cases in all of Wenzhou, jumped to more than 50 for the third day running, according to the report.
截至1月31日24时，乐清确诊病例达到69例，占全温州（241例）的28%；温州确诊病例占浙江全省（599例）的40%，是湖北省外疫情最严重的城市。
As of 2400 hours on January 31, 69 cases had been confirmed in Yuqing, accounting for 28 percent of all cases in Wenzhou (241 cases), and 40 percent of the confirmed cases in Wenzhou were in the province of Zhejiang (599 cases), the worst outside Hubei province.
2月1日，乐清市的防控力度也突然加强。
On February 1, the city of Yueqing also suddenly strengthened the prevention and control efforts.
莱莱夫妻俩，和当地其他从武汉返回的人员，都被集中安排到一家宾馆进行隔离。
The couple, along with other local returnees from Wuhan, were herded into a hotel to be quarantined.
可以一人一间，也可以夫妻同住。
Can be one person, or couples can live together.
莱莱和丈夫跟在家里隔离一样，各要了一间。
Laila and her husband separated at home and ordered one each.
隔离期间有专人送饭，食宿都是免费。
During the isolation period there are special persons to deliver food, accommodation and meals are free.
他们是1月23日返回，隔离期仍旧从23日开始计算。
They returned on 23 January and the isolation period continued to run from 23 January.
△ 隔离点的饭菜（受访者供图）第二天，莱莱才得知，乐清市因为在这次疫情防控中存在疏漏，市里卫健局的局长和疾控中心主任被免职，分管的副市长也受了处分。
Only the next day, Lailai learned that the director of the city health service and the director of the CDC had been dismissed and the deputy mayor of Yueqing city had been disciplined for omissions in the prevention and control of the disease.
此事在当地引起很大震动，最直接的影响就是，全市所有像莱莱这样从武汉返回的“高危人群”，连带有密切接触的人员，全部被排查出来，送到宾馆集中隔离。
The immediate impact of the incident was that all "high-risk groups" like Lailai returning from Wuhan, with close contacts, were rounded up and sent to hotels to be isolated.
按隔离14天的标准，莱莱可以在2月6日解除隔离。
By the standard of 14 days of isolation, Lailai could be unquarantined by 6 February.
但他们又多等了几天，因为隔离结束之后又做了病毒核酸检测，确认没有问题，直到9号晚上才回家。
But they waited a few more days because the isolation was followed by a viral nucleic acid test, which confirmed that there was no problem until the evening of the 9th.
这一天已经是正月十六，她终于可以见到儿子了。
It was the sixteenth of the first month and she was finally able to see her son.
没有被感染，实属幸运。
Lucky not to be infected.
莱莱了解到，早于她返回温州的老乡当中，大概有两个发病，都是在汉正街做生意的。
Lailai learned that before she returned to Wenzhou among the villagers, about two cases, are doing business in Hanzheng Street.
如果不是做了检测，莱莱可能还不敢回家，她看到报道说，过了14天潜伏期也不一定安全，虽然自己没有任何症状，还是有点害怕。
If it had not been for the tests, Laila might not have dared to go home, and she saw reports that the incubation period of 14 days was not necessarily safe, although she did not have any symptoms and was somewhat afraid.
莱莱和丈夫在隔离的宾馆，也度过了温州“管控升级”的7天。
Lailai and her husband spent seven days in a quarantined hotel in Wenzhou, "upgrading control."
他们被送到宾馆的当日，温州市就宣布，从2月1日24时起至2月8日24时，在全市范围实行村(居)民出行管控，每户家庭每两天仅可指派1人出门采购生活物资。
On the day they were taken to the hotel, Wenzhou announced that from 2400 hours on February 1 to 2400 hours on February 8, village (resident) travel controls would be implemented city-wide, with only one person per household assigned every two days to purchase household goods.
防控战线从武汉返回的温州人，在家中或宾馆接受隔离观察时，为他们提供服务的众多工作人员当中，就有张炳钩创立的苍南县壹加壹应急救援队。
The prevention and control front from Wuhan returned to Wenzhou, in the home or guesthouse quarantined observation, they provide services to a large number of staff, Zhang Binghook founded the Cangnan County one plus one emergency rescue team.
“隔离点主要有两个，一个点是隔离酒店，我们每天有二十几个人在，还有一个是有几栋房子的居家隔离点，一些武汉回来的或者是有接触史的人居家隔离，这里安排了三十几个人。
"There are two main quarantine points, one is the isolated hotel, where we have about twenty people a day, and the other is a home quarantined with several houses. Some Wuhan or historical contacts are isolated, and there are thirty or so people here
我们做一些服务工作，帮他们买菜、买生活用品送上门；还得看着他们不能外出。
We do some service, help them buy food, buy supplies to the door, and see that they can't go out.
也没有什么监控，就是人工盯着。
There's no surveillance. It's just a manual stare.
”张炳钩说道。
"said Zhang.
张炳钩表示，救援队本来第一阶段主要任务是帮助社区，那个时候普通民众的防控意识还没有那么强。
Zhang said the first phase of the rescue team's main task was to help the community, when the awareness of the general public is not so strong.
“但现在百姓的意识增强了，我们在社区的排查工作相应会减弱，工作主要集中在高速路口和交通卡点。
"But now that people are more aware, our community inventory is going to be reduced and we're concentrating on high-speed crossings and traffic points.
”正如黄坤所说，整个春节都没有走亲戚，对温州人来说，是挺难的。
As Huang Kun said, the whole Spring Festival has no relatives, for Wenzhou people, is very difficult.
“但我们这里跟风也挺厉害的，不出去，大家就都不出去，还是管得住的。
'But we have a good deal of wind here, and if we don't go out, we won't go out, or we'll manage.
”从1月23日（腊月廿九）开始，张炳钩就在安排队员协助政府部门在路口设卡，对来往车辆进行排查。
Since January 23 (Lap-29), Mr Cheung has been arranging for members of the team to assist government departments in setting up roadblocks to screen traffic.
从早上六七点要查到晚上十二点多，有时要到凌晨四五点。
From six to seven in the morning until midnight, and sometimes until four or five in the morning.
△ 救援队员在道口协助排查（受访者供图）在主要交通路口，都配置有交警、路政、医务人员，部分路口有壹加壹应急救援中心的队员协助，做一些防控工作。
Rescue workers at the crossing points are equipped with traffic police, road administrators and medical staff. Some of them are assisted by a member of the Emergency Rescue Centre at the junction to do some control work.
包括查身份证、测体温、看车牌。
This includes checking ID cards, taking body temperature and looking at license plates.
警方会给前线工作人员提供移动数据终端，输入通行者的身份证号码，就可以查询是否为疑似人员。
Frontline staff will be provided with mobile data terminals to enter the identity card number of the operator to check if they are suspected officers.
张炳钩透露，温州县与县之间的交通管控做得更加严格。
Zhang Bing-hook revealed that Wenzhou county and county traffic control do more stringent.
“比如说你身份是苍南县之外的，你几乎也不能进来。
'For instance, you are outside Cangnan County, and you can hardly come in.
之前高速出口有好几个，现在几乎是每个县保证只有一个口。
There used to be several high-speed exits, and now almost every county guarantees only one mouth.
”其他省道、县道，卡点会多一些。
Other provincial and county roads have more card points.
他认为，如果说目前抗疫第一战场是在医疗一线，第二战场就在高速出口。
He believes that if the first battleground of the current epidemic is the medical front, the second battlefield is the high-speed exit.
壹加壹的队员是协助做排查和分流，总共派出了200多名队员，负责的道路卡点有36个。
One plus one team is assisting with screening and diversion, with a total of more than 200 members assigned to cover 36 road checkpoints.
“如果有疑似的，卫健委有派医务人员在那里，交给他们处理。
"If there is a suspicion, the Wei BodyCare Commission has medical personnel there, to be placed at their disposal.
”疑似的包括：体温不正常的，和根据身份证号码跳出结果是疑似的。
Suspected of including: abnormal body temperature, and jumping out of the ID number is suspected.
身份证号排查是依靠一套基于大数据的算法。
Identity card number checking relies on a set of algorithms based on big data.
张炳钩认为，算法依据应该包括武汉人、湖北人，以及去过武汉、湖北的人等等。
Zhang Bing-hook believes that the algorithm should include Wuhan people, Hubei people, as well as those who have been to Wuhan, Hubei and so on.
车辆和人员集中在一个出口，拥堵就非常厉害。
The concentration of vehicles and people at one exit can be very congested.
虽然通过警务信息终端，查询速度很快，三四十秒就可以返回结果，但因为被排查的人员情绪波动较大，工作并不是很顺利。
Although the results can be returned in 30 or 40 seconds through the police information terminal, the work is not smooth because of the volatility of the emotions of the screened personnel.
张炳钩就遇到过一个情绪激动的司机，车子直接撞过来，一点一点顶着队员往前走。
Zhang Bing-hook encountered an emotional driver, the car directly hit, bit by bit against the team to move forward.
他依然对这些人表示理解，毕竟是回家心切，“他可能在想，如果说这个时候不能下来（高速），到哪里可以下来？”回家心切也只有耐心等待。
He still understood these people, after all, on his way home. "He might wonder if he could not get down at this time," he said.
1月27日的温州市委常委扩大会议上，对于疫情防控，强调了多个“坚决”，其中两个与交通管控有关：对于机场、动车站、高速公路出口、长途客运站等重点对外交通窗口，坚决做到24小时全覆盖从严检测；坚决做到最彻底的隔离阻断，全面暂停省际、市际班车客运和包车客运，严格落实省际、市际和乡间道路的属地管控。
At an expanded meeting of Wenzhou's Standing Committee on January 27, several "resolute" measures were stressed, two of them related to traffic control: strict 24-hour coverage of key external transport windows such as airports, bus stops, highway exits and long-distance passenger terminals.
作为湖北之外发现确诊病例最多的地级市，温州市不得不加强防控力度。
As the city with the most confirmed cases outside Hubei, Wenzhou has to strengthen its prevention and control efforts.
而且有权威专家发现，温州一些确诊病人的病毒标本浓度较强，也建议温州采取更严格的防控措施。
In addition, some authoritative experts found that Wenzhou virus samples of some confirmed patients are strong, Wenzhou is also recommended to take more stringent control measures.
不过到了现在，那些在外打拼的温州人，更关心的就不是何时能回家了，而是什么时候可以出去，把因为疫情中断的工作和事业恢复正常。
But by now, the more concerned people in Wenzhou are not when to go home, but when to get out and get their jobs and careers back to normal because of the epidemic.
往年这个时候，莱莱在汉正街的服装店差不多又要继续营业了。
At this time of the year, Laila's clothing store on Hanzheng Street was almost open again.
但今年不行，那些关闭的市场，还不知道什么时候开业。
But not this year, the closed markets, do not know when to open.
如果晚开张一个月，铺面租金、物业费，加上错过季节的积压货物，损失大概有十万元。
If the opening month late, paving rent, property costs, plus missing the backlog of the season goods, loss of about 100,000 yuan.
问到什么时候回去，莱莱说，肯定是等疫情稍微好一点。
Asked when he would be back, Laila said he would wait until the outbreak was a little better.
“赚再多钱也还得有命花。
"It takes life to make more money.
”吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19毛晓琼|撰稿微信号：234379189刘冉|撰稿微信号：foooorest王晨|统筹微信号：2174127季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: wytlucky19 & # 160; Mao & # 44; Writing microsignals: 2343 79189 Liu & # 124; Writing microsignals: Foooorest Wang & # 124; Co-ordinated Microsignals: 2174127 Season Minhua & # 124; Blame microsignals: janejiminhua We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“封城”之前逃离武汉，温州商人回乡隔离记。
"Shengcheng" before fleeing Wuhan, Wenzhou businessmen back home isolation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "“封城”之前逃离武汉，温州商人回乡隔离记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "被新冠疫情波及，没有人能置身事外。
var msg _ desc = & quot; No one was spared by the new Crown outbreak.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
