除夕夜，他们在武汉。
They were in Wuhan on New Year's Eve.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
图源B站UP主林晨同学自制视频九位在武汉度过了除夕夜的普通人，他们从事着不同的职业，拥有不同的人生经历，但都在这座城市度过了可能是人生中最难忘的一个除夕。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n. Nine ordinary people who spent New Year's Eve in Wuhan had different careers and different life experiences, but all spent perhaps the most memorable New Year's Eve in their lives in this city.
他们讲述的，不只是一个简单的夜晚，而是一场大疫之下，一个个普通人，被改变的生活。
They tell a story not just of a simple night, but of a life transformed by an epidemic of ordinary people.
文｜翟锦 林秋铭 韩逸罗芊 曹原 王梓帆编辑｜金石平安出租车司机 42岁除夕这一天早上，我接到通知，出租车实行单双号限行，这在以前是从来没有过的。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108 ^ # 108] / n. Taxi driver is 42 years old This morning, I was told that taxis were restricted to a single number, which had never been seen before.
这两天，公共交通都停了，网约车上街的也很少，街上只有出租车和私家车。
These two days, public transportation has stopped, there are few cars on the street, only taxis and private cars.
单双号之后，街上的车更少了。
There are fewer cars on the street after the singles.
武汉人爱热闹，往年除夕这一天，人们都会涌到街上，逛庙会，去归元寺烧香祈福，再去江汉路走一走，好吃的吃一吃，看场贺岁电影，天亮之后回家。
Wuhan people love to bustle, New Year's Eve in previous years, people will pour into the streets, temple shopping, Guiyuan Temple burning incense blessing, then go on a walk, eat a delicious eat, see a New Year's film, after dawn back home.
我吃完中饭出车，跑一宿可以收入七百多块钱，一单连着一单。
I can earn more than seven hundred dollars a night, one at a time, from my lunch break.
但今年除夕，我只跑了一单，还是熟悉的客人打电话过来，我实在不好拒绝。
But this New Year's Eve, I only ran a single, or familiar guests called, I really can not refuse.
沿路很多打不到车的人，拦车求我带他们一程，可是我不敢再在外面逗留了，因为我女儿还在家里等我。
Many people along the road who couldn't get a ride asked me to give them a ride, but I didn't dare stay out anymore because my daughter was still waiting for me at home.
事情是20号那天突然严重起来的。
It was suddenly serious on the 20th.
我们天天在路上跑，20号以前，感觉大街上戴口罩的人还很少，20号之后，街上戴口罩的人明显多了，但五个人里至少还有两个人不戴。
We ran on the road every day. Before the 20th, the number of people wearing masks in the street was still low. After the 20th, the number of people wearing masks on the streets was noticeably higher, but at least two of the five were not.
这几天，我每天都会戴上口罩，再用84消毒液兑水，一遍遍擦洗车里车外，毕竟，到处都是打车四处跑的病人。
These days, I put on a mask every day, add 84 disinfectant to water, scrub the car over and over again, after all, there are patients running around by taxi.
他们去得最多的是同济和协和，没有床位。
They went most often to Tongji and Concorde, without beds.
再转武警医院，没有床位。
Then transferred to the Carabineros Hospital, no beds.
又跑到友谊医院、中南医院，都是接收不了，仿佛所有的医院都没有床位了。
Run to the Friendship Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital, are unable to receive, as if all the hospitals have no beds.
很多人是通过网约车软件下的单，一看到是去医院的单子，我们有时真的不敢接，毕竟，只从下单的记录上看，我们也分辨不出哪些人是病号，哪些人是需要上下班的医护人员。
A lot of people are through the Internet contract under the software, a look at the list to go to the hospital, we sometimes really dare not take, after all, only from the records of the order, we can not distinguish between those who are sick and those who need to work.
更何况有一部分人根本没有防护意识。
What's more, some people have no sense of protection at all.
直到今天，我还看到路边有人不戴口罩，我停下车，摇下车窗劝他们，他们回答，「没事儿，我现在很好啊！」封城那天，封城前的最后一刻，我带着一个鄂州人紧急出城，是一个学生，他父母替他叫的车。
To this day, I still see people not wearing masks on the side of the road, I stopped the car, rolled down the window and advised them, "It's all right, I'm fine!" On the closing day, I rushed out of town with a Hubei, a student whose parents called for him.
下午3点，我到学校门口接到他时，整个学校里空空荡荡，他告诉我，他是整个学院里最后一个没回家的学生了，因为做功课耽误了。
When I received him at the school gate at 3 p.m., the whole school was empty and he told me that he was the last student in the college not to return home because his homework had been delayed.
为人父母，理解那种心情，我就想，一定要把他送回家。
Being a parent, understanding the mood, I just want to be sure to send him home.
我们从省道往下走，出城的时候是下午四点，警察已经拦在那里了。
We walked down the provincial road and out of town it was four o'clock in the afternoon and the police were already there.
听说这是要回家的孩子，警察告诉我，国道还没有完全封路，可以出城。
I heard that this is going home of the child, the police told me, the national road has not been completely closed, can leave the city.
我又绕路跑上国道，从那里把他送到鄂州，他的家人在那里等他。
I made a detour and ran up the state road, from where I sent him to Huizhou, where his family waited for him.
原路返回的时候，遇到很多人，有人劝我，别回去啦！现在的人已经出不去啦！也有人求我，想要拼我的车再出城一次，但我都拒绝了。
On my way back, I met a lot of people, who told me not to go back! Now people can't get out! I was also asked to go out of town in my car, but I refused.
我看到等待出城的车被拦在那里，密密麻麻的，有几百辆。
I saw cars waiting to get out of town being stopped there. There were hundreds of them.
回到武汉市内，隧道封了之后，进出长江大桥也需要量体温，车辆行驶得非常慢，在检测的人前面排起长队。
Back in Wuhan, after the tunnel was sealed, the bridge needed to be taken in and out of the bridge, the vehicles were moving very slowly and there was a long line of people in front of the inspectors.
除夕这一天的武汉，冷冷清清，超市里已经买不到什么了，饭店也大多关了门。
On New Year's Eve, Wuhan, cold and clear, the supermarket has not been able to buy anything, most of the hotel closed the door.
我回家和女儿点外卖吃了她最喜欢的炸鸡腿，算是年夜饭。
I went home to order takeaway with my daughter and ate her favorite fried chicken leg. It was New Year's Eve.
接下来的这几天，我也不准备开火了，外卖能点到什么，我们就窝在家里吃什么。
For the next few days, I'm not going to open fire, take-out can order anything, we nest at home to eat.
新年钟声敲响的时候，我用手机刷着疫情的动态新闻，女儿在旁边安静地看她最喜欢的动画片。
When the New Year's bell rang, I used my mobile phone to brush the news of the epidemic, my daughter quietly watching her favorite animation.
武汉今晚一直在下雨，室外的温度，又冷了一些。
Wuhan has been raining tonight, the outdoor temperature, and a little cold.
熊浩外卖员 33岁除夕这天，我早上9点就出门了，跑到晚上过了0点才回家，做了30多单，这一天，很多人点了火锅，即使没点火锅也点了比平时贵很多的菜。
On New Year's Eve, when Xiong Hao was 33, I went out at 9: 00 a.m. and didn't come home until 0 p.m. to make more than 30 orders. On that day, many people ordered hotpot, even if they did not order hotpot more expensive than usual.
月初，情况还不严重的时候，我回了一趟安徽老家，待了一周，18号又回了武汉。
At the beginning of the month, when the situation was not serious, I returned to my hometown of Anhui, stayed for a week, and returned to Wuhan on 18th.
那时，大家还都不怎么戴口罩，街上热热闹闹，但23号就封城了。
At the time, people were still not wearing masks, the streets were noisy, but the 23rd was closed.
肺炎越来越严重，街上也没什么人了，连常晃悠在美食广场的「傻子」都戴上口罩了，他40岁上下，常常到处晃，大小便也不会遮掩，口罩我猜大概是他家里人给他戴上的吧。
Pneumonia grew worse and the street was empty. Even the "fool" who used to hang around the food plaza was wearing a mask. He was about 40 years old and he used to go around and pee and pee. I guess his family put it on him.
这几天，客户基本都会戴着口罩开门接外卖，有的还会让我就放在门口然后走掉，这些我都觉得很正常。
For a few days, customers will basically wear a mask to open the door to take away, some will let me put on the door and then walk away, I feel very normal.
只是有一个客户，50多岁的老太太，一开门，她用毛巾把脸都捂住，对我摆手，让我赶快走，一句话也没说，我心里觉得挺不舒服的。
Just one client, an old lady in her fifties, when she opened the door and covered her face with a towel, waved to me to hurry away without saying a word, I felt uncomfortable.
但过了阵子就好了。
But it'll be all right after a while.
我们跑外卖，本身就不愿意接医院的单子，因为医院的院子不让外卖车进，上电梯也很难。
We took out the food and were reluctant to take out the hospital orders because the hospital yard was closed to takeaway cars and it was difficult to get to the elevator.
现在这个状况，我更不愿意跑医院了。
At the moment, I'm even more reluctant to go to the hospital.
我记得之前看一个新闻说北京一个医生是通过眼结膜感染了肺炎，你说我连护目镜都没有，去医院要怎么保护自己呢？如果我被感染了，我又到处去送外卖，不就成了超级感染者了吗？其实我不怕肺炎，不然我也不会在这个时候出门到处跑。
I remember reading about a Beijing doctor who contracted pneumonia through the conjunctiva. You said I didn't even have goggles, so how do I protect myself when I go to a hospital? If I get infected and go to a takeaway shop again, I'm a super-infected person.
说不怕，是因为我觉得这事就像噩运一样，怕是怕不掉的，该怎么生活就还是怎么生活。
I'm not afraid because I think it's like bad luck. I'm afraid I can't be afraid to live as I should.
我以前炒股，挣了些钱，前些年和人合伙开公司，两年就倒掉了，变得身无分文，开始送外卖。
I used to trade stocks, make some money, started a company with people a few years ago, fell out in two years, became penniless, and began to deliver takeout.
公司垮掉的那年，母亲也走了。
Mother left the year the company collapsed.
在这之前一年，我刚在老家给她建了房子，两层两百多平，让妈妈住进去了，这可能是后来能够安慰到我的事情。
A year before that, I had just built her a house in my hometown, two hundred square stories, and let my mother live in it, which might later comfort me.
虽然不怕，但防护我会做，比如，以前冬天，我都是戴棉口罩，现在我会戴N95的口罩，我也会在租的房子煮醋来消毒，我们的土方子。
Although not afraid, but I will do protection, for example, I used to wear cotton masks in the winter, now I will wear N95 masks, I will also boil vinegar in rented houses to disinfect our earthwork.
除此之外，其它也没做更多了。
Nothing else has been done.
春节跑外卖，一单能比平时多3块5。
Spring Festival take-out, a single more than usual 3 yuan 5.
原本，晚上9点多我就想回家休息了，但想了想，又跑了两趟，接了五六单，都送完已过了零点。
Originally, more than 9 p.m. I would like to go home to rest, but think about it, ran twice, took 56 tickets, are over midnight.
年三十儿的晚上，武汉的街上很安静，没有什么人，也没什么开着的店，我现在跟你打电话的时候，武汉还在下雨，我刚好送完手里的单子，躲在一个车棚避雨，觉得有个人能聊聊天，也挺好的。
Wuhan is a very quiet night, no one, no open shop, I now call you when Wuhan is still raining, I just sent the list of hands, hiding in a shelter to shelter from the rain, think someone can chat, good.
李梦孕妇 26岁这是我过得最焦虑的一个除夕，因为，我的预产期是1月27号，大年初三，可直到除夕，我还没有找到待产的医院。
Li Meng pregnant women 26 years old This is my most anxious New Year's Eve, because I expected to give birth on January 27, the third, but until New Year's Eve, I have not found a hospital to give birth.
1月21号的时候，我还和家人出门逛超市，虽然我们戴了口罩，但看到很多人没有戴——当时，大家包括我自己，都还没有太把肺炎当回事。
On January 21st, I went out to the supermarket with my family, and although we wore masks, we saw many of them didn't wear them - everyone, myself included, wasn't taking pneumonia seriously.
直到后来看到武汉要封城的消息，我心里一下就凉了，没想到疫情已经到这么严重的程度了。
Until then saw Wuhan to seal the news, my heart immediately cool, did not expect that the epidemic has reached such a serious level.
我失眠了，从3点醒到了6点，天快亮了才睡过去。
I lost sleep. I woke up from 3 to 6 o'clock. It was almost daylight before I went to sleep.
9点多一醒来，就又开始刷微博，看肺炎的新闻。
9 o'clock more than woke up, began to brush Weibo, to see the news of pneumonia.
我本来一直都是在家门口的中山医院做产检，但医院这几天开设了发热门诊，我是除夕前一天打电话过去问才知道这个消息的，他们说要到2月1号才可以接收新病人，幸好我自己主动打了这个电话。
I had been doing a check-up at Zhongshan Hospital in front of my house, but the hospital had a fever clinic these days. I just called the day before New Year's Eve to ask about the news.
我问了其他公立的综合性医院，基本上都开设了发热门诊，我就开始找私立医院，但看了很多家，查了很多评价，说什么的都有，很不放心，就还是想去公立医院。
I asked other public general hospitals, basically opened fever clinics, I began to look for private hospitals, but looked at a lot of homes, looked up a lot of evaluation, said everything, very worried, still want to go to the public hospital.
我开始打市长热线，问我们这些孕妇要怎么办？去哪个医院待产、产检才是安全的？市长热线那边建议我们去打城市卫生健康委员会12320，但这个电话我一直打不通。
I started calling the Mayor's Hotline and asked us what we were going to do. Which hospital was safe for labor and delivery? The Mayor's Hotline advised us to call the City Health Council 12320, but I couldn't get through.
我就在网上找，找那些评论里的孕妇，问问她们的情况，都非常焦虑，不知道怎么办，有些人建议我去武汉市妇幼医院，那里好像没有接诊发热病人，我去打了电话，那边说可以接收，但问题是妇幼医院和武汉市儿童医院紧挨着，儿童医院也是武汉的定点发热门诊医院……而且我家没有车，现在网约车也停了，我在想，要有个紧急情况要怎么办？现在，我已经一周多没有产检了，只能每天自己听一听胎儿心跳，留意胎动，我以前每天十点多就困了睡觉，现在得挨到一两点才能睡着，也没心思给宝宝放胎教音乐。
Some people suggested that I go to Wuhan Women and Children's Hospital, where there seems to be no treatment for febrile patients. I called and said it was acceptable, but the problem is that the mother and child hospital and Wuhan Children's Hospital are next to it.
除夕的晚上，我坐在沙发上看春晚，眼睛一直盯着手机刷微博，看肺炎的消息，根本安心不下来，究竟要去哪个医院待产，我完全不知道。
On New Year's Eve, I sat on the sofa watching the Spring Festival Gala, eyes on the mobile phone brush Weibo, the news of pneumonia, no peace of mind, exactly which hospital to go to labor, I have no idea.
我之前想过给宝宝取小名叫「佑佑」，保佑的佑，本来还在犹豫，但现在，觉得这个名字还挺好的，希望他能平平安安的。
I had thought about calling the baby "You You," but I was still hesitating, but now I think it's a good name and I hope he's safe.
任杰大学生 22岁我们学校1月12号已经放假了，我为了实习，准备在武汉留久一些。
Ren Jie University students 22 years old Our school has been closed on January 12, I have to internship, ready to stay in Wuhan a little longer.
学校寒假要断电断水，因此我拉着行李箱去了酒店，想等除夕再回爷爷家过年。
School winter break to cut off electricity and water, so I took the suitcase to the hotel, want to wait New Year's Eve to Grandpa's home.
没想到23号的早上，我接到我爸妈的电话，说武汉封城了，我走不了了。
Unexpectedly, on the morning of the 23rd, I received a phone call from my parents saying that Wuhan had been closed.
我试着抢了几张票，都显示无票，叫了几次滴滴都没有人愿意接单，只好留在武汉过年。
I tried to snatch a few tickets, all showed no tickets, called a few drops are not willing to accept orders, had to stay in Wuhan for the New Year.
封城的那天，我不仅没买到票，酒店房间的卫生都没人打扫了。
Not only did I not get tickets on the day the city was closed, but no one cleaned the hotel rooms.
经理告诉我，保洁阿姨突然不来上班了，但是推车还在，我们把推车给你拉过来了，你自己换一下东西吧。
The manager told me that Aunt Procter had suddenly stopped coming to work, but the trolley was still there. Let's bring you the trolley. You can change it yourself.
后来，我只好换了个房间，原来那房间估计到现在还没人收拾。
Then I had to change my room, which was supposed to be empty by now.
除夕早上10点多，我离开酒店，住回了学校。
On New Year's Eve at more than 10 a.m., I left the hotel and went back to school.
学校基本上已经空了，我们这一片宿舍区可能只住了不超过10个人。
The school is almost empty, and we may have no more than 10 people living in our dormitory area.
整座宿舍楼里也只剩我和另外一个同学两个人。
I was the only one left in the dormitory with another classmate.
好在学校重开了食堂，除夕晚上，只有一个窗口是开着的，一共10个菜，但是不要钱，我随便吃了点，就回宿舍开始看春晚了。
Fortunately, the school canteen, New Year's Eve, only one window is open, a total of 10 dishes, but no money, I casually ate a bit, back to the dorm began to watch Chunwan.
说来好笑，我三四年没有看春晚了。
Funny to say, I haven't seen Chunwan in three or four years.
我当时特别不理解，出国念书的朋友为什么坚持看春晚，但这个除夕，我似乎明白了，这会让我觉得自己好像跟外面的家人是同步的，有共同的联系，我没有真正跟他们隔开——只是，看春晚的同时我还在刷微博，两边切换两个屏幕，感觉两块屏幕上发生的事情，不在一个时空。
I didn't really understand why friends who study abroad insist on watching Spring Festival Gala, but this New Year's Eve, I seem to understand that it makes me feel like I'm in sync with my family out there, I'm not really separated from them -- just, I'm still brushing my tweets, twirling two screens and feeling what's happening on the two screens, not in time and space.
今年很奇怪，家人给我的红包突然翻了很多倍，爷爷奶奶给了我5位数的红包，他们会问你那边怎么样，最后说我给你点钱吧，可能是担心我处境比较危险吧。
My grandparents gave me a five-digit red envelope and they would ask how you were doing. Finally, they said, "I'll give you some money. Maybe I'm worried about my situation."
我爸妈也很担心我，但是我跟他们视频的时候，发现他们还是完全没有戴口罩。
My parents worry about me too, but when I videotaped them, they were still completely free of masks.
我现在有点慌。
I'm a little nervous now.
家里两个老人都快80了，可是一大家子人没有一个戴口罩的。
The two old people in our family are nearly 80 years old, but not a large family member wears a mask.
但是当时是拜年的电话，我不知道该怎么说这个事情，只能打个招呼，问个好。
But it was a New Year call, I do not know how to say this matter, can only say hello, say hello.
现在学校就是把在校学生给锁死在宿舍里，除了吃饭的时候，尽量不让你出那栋楼。
Now school is to lock the students in the dormitory, except for eating, try not to let you out of the building.
晚上8点之后，门会彻底封掉，还要再加一道锁。
After 8 p.m., the door will be completely closed and a lock will be added.
武汉街头也基本没有什么人了，封城那天早上9点多钟，街头还有零星的人提着箱子想试着看看能不能冲一下。
Wuhan streets are also basically no people, the closure of the city at more than 9 o'clock that morning, there are pockets of people carrying boxes to try to see if it can be washed.
除了那些人之外，就剩下一些挤到药店或超市里的人。
In addition to those people, there were only a few people huddled into pharmacies or supermarkets.
那天我跑到一个小的社区诊所买口罩，KN95的口罩50个一盒，1200块钱。
The other day I went to a small community clinic to buy masks, 50 KN95 masks a box, 1200 yuan.
我看到有人一次性买了三盒，加上其他一些零零碎碎的东西，一次性结了快4000块钱。
I saw someone buy three boxes at a time, plus a few other odds and ends, and a lump sum of nearly $4000.
药店基本上只要是消毒的那些东西，整个都卖空了，我还碰到一个人来退货，说他早上来抢消毒水，结果看错了，抢了十几瓶漱口水回去。
Drug stores basically as long as the disinfection of those things, the whole sold short, I also encountered a person returned, said he came in the morning to seize the disinfectant, the results wrong, seized a dozen bottles of mouthwash back.
坐出租车，司机师傅也喷了一车的消毒水，味道很浓，但是那是一种安全的味道。
In a taxi, the chauffeur also sprayed a load of disinfectant. It tasted strong, but it was a safe smell.
除了消毒水，口罩现在也是我安全感的来源。
In addition to disinfecting water, masks are now a source of security for me.
我自己在宿舍，还是会全天戴着口罩的。
I wear masks all day long in my dorm room.
按照现在换的频率，口罩应该是不太够用了，但是可以到学校的一个宿舍楼里领取新的。
At the current rate of change, the mask should be less than adequate, but you can go to a boarding house in the school to get a new one.
我还会每隔一两个小时就会拿酒精棉球擦一遍椅子、手机。
I also clean chairs and cell phones with an alcoholic cotton ball every hour or two.
我最近睡得不是很好，每天晚上睡觉前忍不住就会开始看微博，一直看到凌晨3点，但自己完全没有意识，就是不受控制地往下刷。
I haven't slept very well lately. Every night before I go to bed, I can't help but watch microblogging until 3: 00 in the morning.
外面在发生这么大的事情，而我只能在20平米的一个小宿舍里从早待到晚，很不是滋味。
It was such a big thing happening outside, and I had to stay in a small 20 square meter dorm from early to late.
我并没有买很多东西存着。
I don't buy a lot of things to keep.
不知道为什么，我总觉得可能过两天，这个事就会变好，总隐隐约约有这样的感觉。
I do not know why, I always think that in two days, this thing will be better, always vaguely feel like this.
我想，这可能是一种幻觉，因为自己打心眼里不希望这个事一直持续。
I think it could be an illusion, because I really don't want it to go on.
朱婷护士 26岁我做了6年的护士，今年是第一年无法回家去过除夕。
Nurse Zhu Ting 26 years old I worked as a nurse for six years, this is the first year can not go home to New Year's Eve.
我所在的医院是武汉的一家三甲医院，负责收治疑似病例，我们病区全体的医护人员都在一线。
My hospital is Wuhan, a three-A hospital, in charge of treating suspected cases, all of our hospital staff are in the front line.
原本，我和丈夫计划在大年初八举办婚礼，这是2019年9月就定好了的，但医院的一则通知，改变了这个计划。
Originally, my husband and I planned to hold the wedding on the eighth day of New Year, which had been fixed in September 2019, but a notice from the hospital changed the plan.
那天，我们病区30多位护士聚在科室里，护士长通知了大家疫情，同事们马上给家人打了个电话，只是简单地跟他们说了一下，让他们平常出门戴口罩。
On that day, more than 30 nurses from our ward gathered at the hospital. The head nurse informed us of the outbreak, and colleagues immediately called their families and simply told them to go out and wear masks.
大家脸上都有点担心，或者恐慌的表情，但都没有说什么，只是相互鼓励，当天下午就一起上了一线。
Everyone was worried, or scared, but nothing was said. They just encouraged each other and came together in the afternoon.
我的丈夫也是一名护士，他和我说，要不我们暂时取消婚礼？我答应了。
My husband is also a nurse, he told me, or we temporarily cancel the wedding? I agreed.
做决定的那一刻，我哭得可厉害了。
The moment I made my decision, I cried like hell.
我们大学的时候就认识，恋爱了三四年，感情一直都特别好，我们都很期待这场婚礼。
We met when we were in college, had been in love for three or four years, and always had a great relationship. We all looked forward to the wedding.
这场婚礼很不容易，我们平时没有所谓的假期和节假日，都是按照排班，休息时间总对不上，我们花了至少三个月才筹备好这场婚礼，婚纱照都是通过换班、换休才拍成。
It wasn't easy. We didn't usually have so-called holidays and holidays. It was arranged according to the schedule. It took us at least three months to prepare for the wedding.
而且，老家有习俗，定好的日子，不管怎么样就不要改。
Besides, it is the custom in our hometown to fix the day, no matter what.
但家里人都很理解。
But the family understood it.
我们两个人都在武汉，回不去老家孝感，只能打电话跟亲戚朋友通知了这个事情，跟酒店、婚庆、摄影还有其他联系好的人一个个打了电话，也赔了一定的钱。
Both of us are in Wuhan, can not go home filial piety, can only call relatives and friends to inform about this matter, with hotels, weddings, photography and other well-connected people one by one, also paid a certain amount of money.
一线的工作很紧张，我们大概4个小时就要换一下防护镜和口罩。
The front-line work is very tight, we need to change the protective glasses and face mask in about 4 hours.
4个小时在病房能不出来就不出来。
You can't come out of the ward for four hours.
我们都尽量不喝水，不上厕所。
We all tried not to drink water or go to the toilet.
因为穿脱隔离衣，第一很麻烦，第二确确实实很浪费资源，我们的资源现在真的很紧张。
Because the first thing we have is wearing the paraphernalia, the second is really a waste of resources, and our resources are really tight right now.
只能节约换口罩、防护服这些用具的频次，这些东西真的不太够了，具体的数量我不清楚，我的医院还没接到具体通知，但我老公的医院也只能坚持3到5天了。
I can only save the frequency of changing masks, protective clothing these things, these things really not enough, I do not know the exact amount, my hospital has not received specific notification, but my husband's hospital can only last three to five days.
双层的橡胶手套很不透气，戴了4个小时之后，相当于在水里面浸泡了4个小时。
The duplex rubber gloves were impermeable, and after four hours of wearing them, they were equivalent to soaking in water for four hours.
N95口罩戴久了鼻子上面的话会有压痕，慢慢会产生压疮，有一道鲜红的印子。
N95 mask will have indentation if worn over nose, will slowly produce pressure sore, there is a bright red print.
我记得每个人脱下防护服后，基本上都挂着很沧桑的脸。
I remember everyone taking off their protective clothing, basically hanging very vicissitudes of the face.
但我们有时候还是会苦中作乐。
But sometimes we still have a hard time.
我们穿上防护服后基本都认不出对方是谁，大家就会在对方的衣服上给他画画，写上姓氏，然后画个笑脸、动物或者一朵花。
When we put on our protective clothing and barely recognize each other, we would draw pictures of each other's clothes, write his last name, and draw a smiling face, an animal or a flower.
我们病区还是会有那种清醒的病人，我们把氛围调节得没有那么紧张，他们也没有那么大的压力。
There will still be sobering patients in our area, we will not be so nervous about the atmosphere, and they will not be so stressed.
上一线之后，我和丈夫只有同时回到家的时候才能见到。
On the front line, my husband and I could only see each other when we got home together.
除夕过得非常简单，我前一天上的夜班，除夕休息。
New Year's Eve passed very simply. I was on night shift the day before.
我老公凌晨一点的夜班。
My husband works night shift at 1 in the morning.
我们的年夜饭是火锅，几个简单的菜品，都是疫情发生之前备的，当时没舍得吃，把它特意存到了除夕，也算是过个年。
Our dinner is hot pot, a few simple dishes, are prepared before the outbreak of the epidemic, then did not give up to eat, it deliberately saved New Year's Eve, is also a passing year.
两个人一起看看春晚，他就要去上班了。
Two people together to watch the Spring Festival Gala, he will go to work.
在医院的ICU，患者住的都是隔离病房，出不去，也没有办法见到外面的太阳。
At the ICU in the hospital, patients live in isolation wards, unable to get out, and no way to see the sun outside.
但我们ICU病区的窗户正好对着太阳，有时候，我们把两层窗帘拉开后，他们就真的可以看到太阳。
But our windows in the ICU are right in front of the sun. Sometimes when we pull the curtains apart, they can actually see the sun.
阳光洒进来，他们都很开心。
They were all happy when the sun came in.
我们真的希望有那么一天，春天可以早点来。
We really hope that one day spring can come early.
尚杰公司职员 25岁我是20号晚上从深圳回到武汉的。
Shang Jie Company 25 years old I returned to Wuhan from Shenzhen on the evening of the 20th.
肺炎这件事，在那之前，都是湖北以外的人比湖北人更担心，我在深圳的时候，就有很多人提醒我买口罩。
Pneumonia, before that, is outside Hubei people are more worried than Hubei people, when I was in Shenzhen, a lot of people reminded me to buy masks.
我本来也不太想回来，但我爸妈不同意，说没什么事，我就一路戴着口罩回家了。
I didn't want to come back, either, but my parents wouldn't agree. I went home wearing a mask.
20号当晚，钟南山院士在新闻里说确定人传人，以及医护人员有被感染，感觉自那之后，相关的数据越来越吓人，新闻也越来越多。
On the evening of the 20th, Academician Zhong Nan Shan said in the news that people-to-people and health-care workers were infected.
我当时就准备待在家里不出门，但是我爸22号的时候要出去家庭聚餐，算是我们的传统吧，我们大家族，几十人一桌一起吃饭。
I was going to stay home, but it's our tradition to go out and have a family dinner when my dad is 22.
我劝不住他，只好跟他一起去吃了。
I couldn't persuade him, so I had to go to eat with him.
我有个长辈，对肺炎非常不屑，我在家族群里，会说疫情的消息，告诉他们朋友圈很多人退票了，不回家过年了。
I have an elderly, very disdainful of pneumonia, I will say in the family group, will say the epidemic, told them friends and many people returned tickets, do not go home for the New Year.
但他说，都是外面的人自己吓自己，还说，这个事情，就是让更多人知道武汉，「上次军运会还没有这次宣传力度高」。
But he said it was the outside world who scared themselves, adding that the thing was to let more people know Wuhan, "the last military games have not been as strong as this propaganda."
他还吃野味，在吃年夜饭的时候，他抓住服务员问了我好多没听过的菜，其他人就说你别吃野味，不怕得病啊，他就哈哈哈大笑说：「没事，我平时吃得多了……」他这番话吓得我，埋头一个劲吃，加速寒暄的进程，在大家还没离席的时候就先赶紧回家了。
He also ate game, in the New Year's Eve dinner, he grabbed the waiter asked me a lot of unheard-of dishes, the others said you do not eat game, do not fear disease ah, he said with a laugh: "nothing, I eat more than usual..."
回家之后就觉得这样不行，太危险了，我就开始每天发很多肺炎的新闻和视频给我爸妈看，那些在医院里排很长队黑压压挤满了门诊的、哭号着说自己也感染了的阿姨、走着走着就躺倒在地上的戴口罩的病人、号啕大哭的医护，还有像钟南山讲话、央视新闻，「你们是忘记非典死多少人了吗」和「武汉肺炎，绝不仅仅是戴口罩那么简单」这种。
I started to send news and videos of pneumonia every day to my parents. There were long queues of out-patients crying about being infected, patients lying on the ground as they walked, crying medical attention, "Did you forget how many died of SARS" and "Wuhan pneumonia, not just wearing a mask."
但直到武汉封城，我爸妈才开始真正紧张起来，取消了后头的几场年夜饭。
But it wasn't until Wuhan was sealed that my parents really got nervous and canceled a few New Year's Eve dinners.
现在我爸妈遛狗，我都不让他们去小区楼下，他们本来想去地下车库，我想想觉得密闭环境不安全，不如去天台，于是我们现在一家人就去天台遛狗，一天遛五六回。
Now my parents walk their dogs and I won't let them go downstairs. They wanted to go to the underground garage. I thought it would be unsafe to go to the roof, so we're going for a walk on the roof five or six times a day.
除夕这天也是一样，小狗在天台上跑，但我觉得自己像是在家里像坐牢，不知道这种日子什么时候能结束。
It was the same on New Year's Eve, when the dog was running on the roof, but I felt as if I was in prison at home, not knowing when it would end.
于敏大学生 24岁这个除夕，我们家是在浓浓的消毒水味儿中度过的。
Yu Min University students 24 years old this New Year's Eve, our family is in the thick smell of disinfectant spent.
我开始担心疫情是在17号，当时是看到一些微博消息，然后去咨询了我一个在同济医院上班的亲戚。
I began to worry that the outbreak was on the 17th, when I saw microblogging messages and went to consult a relative working at Tongji Hospital.
她就回我两个字：严重。
She answered me in two words: very serious.
那个时候，我开始留意她的朋友圈，发现她那几天的朋友圈都在科普新型冠状病毒，还说，她回家都给孩子的玩具消毒。
At that time, I began to look at her circle of friends, she found that her friends in those days are in the new coronavirus, and said that she returned home to disinfect the children's toys.
看到这些，我开始叫家人戴口罩。
Seeing this, I started to tell my family to wear masks.
一开始我爸妈都还不太重视，但随着情况越来越严重，我们开始越来越紧张。
At first my parents didn't attach much importance to it, but as the situation got worse, we began to get more and more nervous.
我那两天的心态很不好，一开始经常看到报告疫情数字增加得特别快，死亡数字到17的时候，我真的吓傻了。
I was in a bad mood for those two days, and I was really scared when I first saw the number of reported cases increase so fast that the death toll reached 17.
有两天晚上我睡不着觉，咳嗽一下就慌得不行。
I couldn't sleep for two nights and coughed until I was blue in the face.
封城那天早上，我还吐了，但我不敢跟爸妈说，怕他们担心。
I still vomited that morning, but I didn't dare to tell my parents that I was afraid they would worry.
去给爷爷奶奶送口罩，他们家离我家有两站公交的距离，但我不敢坐公交，就走着去送。
To send a mask to grandparents, their home is two stops away from my home bus, but I dare not take the bus, just walk to send.
我妈买了好多消毒液，还买了含75%的酒精棉片，家里垃圾桶也都换成翻盖的。
My mother bought a lot of disinfectant and bought 75% of the alcohol cotton pieces. The garbage cans in the house were all overturned.
我家门口放着一桶消毒水，进门就消毒。
There was a bucket of disinfectant in front of my house.
每天家里要消两遍毒，对着通风的纱窗喷消毒水。
Twice a day in your home, spray disinfectant against the vented screen.
衣服洗之前，要用衣用消毒液兑水浸泡，然后再搓洗或者丢洗衣机。
Soak clothes in water with disinfectant before washing. Then rub or throw away the washing machine.
碗、盘子、刀具、刷牙杯子、牙刷、水杯，我妈也会统统放盆里浸泡消毒。
Bowls, plates, knives, toothbrushing cups, toothbrushes, water cups, my mother will also be soaked in a basin disinfection.
在街上一旦碰到不戴口罩的人，她也会保持距离。
She keeps her distance whenever she meets someone in the street without a mask.
她和我爸出门前戴上口罩，我都让他们戴上我的眼镜哈气，看出没出雾，来判断口罩有没有戴好。
She and my father put on masks before they went out. I told them to put on my glasses.
我爸要出去买两斤肉，我妈不要他去，说她去。
My father is going out to buy two kilos of meat. My mother doesn't want him to go.
我说不行，你们都别去，我去。
I said no, neither of you. I'll go.
搞得像上战场一样。
Make it look like a battleground.
除夕这天，我们原计划是去奶奶家吃饭的，但后来取消了。
On New Year's Eve, we had planned to go to Grandma's house for dinner, but it was cancelled.
我们在自己家吃饭，我妈在家里准备，我爸出去逛了一圈，回来后，我和我妈又一通给他身上喷消毒水，包括鞋底……晚上，我们就在消毒水味中开始吃饭，吃完饭看了会春晚就睡了，毕竟，为了提高免疫力，得保证早睡早起。
We ate in our own house, my mother prepared it at home, my father went out for a walk, and when my mother and I came back, we started eating in the smell of disinfectant and slept at the end of the dinner.
Linda律所职员 26岁我和男朋友都是河南人，这也是我们第一次在外乡过年。
Linda, age 26 My boyfriend and I are both from Henan Province, and this is our first Spring Festival in a foreign country.
我原本买的是除夕当天的票从武汉回河南，结果看到封城的消息，那天半夜我刚好没有睡，给我妈打了好多电话，她睡着了没接到，我就给她发长长的微信，这些话是对她说的，也像在劝自己——武汉封城了，我可能回不去了。
I originally bought tickets from Wuhan to Henan on New Year's Eve, only to see the news that I just did not sleep that night, to my mother made many phone calls, she fell asleep did not receive, I sent her a long message, these words to her, as if persuading himself - Wuhan closed, I may not go back.
虽然我还有时间改签7点的票，但是我觉得我还是不要回去了。
I still have time to change my ticket to 7, but I don't think I should go back.
既然已经走到封城这一步，那就说明武汉疫情已经很严重了，半夜2点发封城的消息肯定也是为了防止我这种订了票的人改签回去。
Now that we have reached the stage of sealing the city, that means Wuhan epidemic is already very serious, 2: 00 in the middle of the night issued the news is also sure to prevent my booking people to re-sign back.
目前我自己很健康，没有任何感冒症状，但是我们律所，我对面坐的姑娘就感冒了，咳嗽了好多天，武汉每天都会增加新的病人，我很怕我自己会是一个病毒携带者，这次的肺炎本身就有潜伏期。
At present I am in good health and do not have any cold symptoms, but our law firm, I sit opposite the girl caught a cold, cough for many days, Wuhan every day to add new patients, I am afraid I will be a carrier of the virus, this time the pneumonia itself has latency.
最重要的是，这次肺炎目前死亡病例比较多的是年纪大的人，如果我回家了，大年初一姥姥的生日肯定要去，奶奶肯定要见，我本身年轻人抵抗力强没什么事情，但是携带了病毒感染你们怎么办呢？我记得我上初一的时候，上课被老师问到，人活着的意义是什么？我回来问妈妈，妈妈说，为了社会的延续吧。
Most importantly, the pneumonia is now more deaths are older people, if I go home, the birthday of grandma must go, Granny must see, my own young resistance is strong nothing, but how do you do? I remember my first year of junior high school, the teacher asked, what is the meaning of living?
我当然也想回家啊，过年，谁不想和家人在一起呢。
Of course I also want to go home, New Year, who do not want to be with their families.
但我想到妈妈说，为了社会的延续。
But I think of Mom saying, for the sake of social continuity.
虽然我不是什么伟大的人，但在这种敏感时刻，这一点小小的牺牲，我应该是可以做到的。
Although I am not a great man, I should be able to make this small sacrifice at such a sensitive time.
虽然我不能回家过年了，但是我们心在一起，家就在一起。
Although I can not go home to celebrate the New Year, but our hearts together, the family together.
等武汉的疫情控制住了，我一定第一时间请假也会回家的！发完微信已经是凌晨3点20分，早上6点，我妈电话把我吵醒，哭得稀里哗啦，我劝了她好久才平复。
Wuhan control of the epidemic, I will be the first time to leave home! It was 3: 20 a.m., 6: 00 a.m., my mother called me wake up, crying, I advised her for a long time to recover.
不能回去过年其实我心里有点愧疚感，但是觉得这样的情况下我不回去应该是个正确的选择。
Can not go back to the New Year in fact, I feel a little guilty, but I do not feel like this situation should be the right choice.
这些天，妈妈每天会给我发微信——土豆、胡萝卜、白萝卜、白菜、葱，都可以长时间放，买点吧；花菜不易清洗干净，面包不好加热，不再加买；可以自己做煎饼，没事自己做热的吃呗；多休息，锻炼身体；吃好饭，增加抵抗力；水果也备点，苹果可以放很久；手机上学做个健身操，或者贴墙站，贴墙站也很耗体力，晚上早点吃饭，四点半到五点吃，再饿就吃水果，喝水；我想，这么严肃的时刻，她还想着趁机让我减肥，心态很好。
These days my mother sends me letters every day -- potatoes, carrots, turnips, cabbage, onions -- all for a long time, buy some cauliflower is not easy to clean, the bread is not easy to heat and no more; you can cook your own pancakes and eat nothing hot; rest and exercise; eat good food and build up resistance.
结果仔细一问，她是怕我一个人在这边孤独。
It turned out that she was afraid that I would be alone.
除夕这天，我在武汉。
On New Year's Eve, I was in Wuhan.
睡到自然醒，然后和男朋友出门买菜，超市菜价比平常稍微偏高一些，想想临近春节，也算正常。
Wake up naturally, and then go shopping with boyfriend, supermarket prices than usual slightly higher, think of the Spring Festival approaching, also normal.
我们买了一些排骨炖汤，晚上就用汤下点面条，等到半夜，煮了饺子当夜宵，我们北方过年一定要吃饺子，虽然我不怎么爱吃。
We bought some spareribs stew soup, at night with soup noodle, until midnight, cooked dumplings for supper, we must eat dumplings in the north, although I do not like to eat dumplings.
其实也没有太多想说的，只想说，希望疫情能够得到控制，周边地区能够得到支持，我在武汉，一切还好。
In fact, there is not too much to say, just want to say, hope that the epidemic can be controlled, surrounding areas can be supported, I in Wuhan, everything is OK.
小荷记者 27岁除夕夜是我自我隔离的第二天。
Little Dutch reporter 27 years old New Year's Eve is my self-isolation day.
之前，我连续两天进入武汉市几个重点医院采访，从那回来逐渐感觉嗓子不舒服，23号晚上嗓子痛得厉害，我把症状告诉了我一位医生朋友，他听到后非常凝重地劝我，一定要重视，一定要隔离。
Before that, I went to several key hospitals in Wuhan city for two days in a row. From there I gradually felt a sore throat. On the evening of 23rd I had a sore throat.
因为「这次肺炎，根本就不确定表现出来是什么鬼症状。
Because "this pneumonia, is not at all certain to show what the ghost symptoms.
」据他说，他们的医院对所有一线医护人员都进行了CT排查，一些毫无症状的医生和护士，CT片子也出现了肺部感染，这其实是新病毒的厉害之处，全无症状或者症状轻微，不代表还没中招。
His hospital, he said, had CT scans of all front-line staff, asymptomatic doctors and nurses, and CT scans showing lung infections, which are in fact new viruses that are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and do not mean they haven't done so.
我本身就有咽炎，这两天说话又比较多，很难判断是否是因为感染了新病毒。
I have pharyngitis myself, these two days to talk more, it is difficult to determine whether it is due to infection with the new virus.
但和父母商量过后，我还是决定搬到了楼上邻居的家里。
But after consulting my parents, I decided to move to the neighbor's house upstairs.
武汉封城的前一天，他们举家到北京亲戚家过年，空出房子和猫狗给我照顾。
Wuhan, the day before the city, they went to Beijing relatives to celebrate the New Year, leaving the house and dogs free to take care of me.
我们真正重视肺炎的报道，是从20号那天、钟南山院士肯定「存在人传人现象」开始的。
We really attach importance to the report of pneumonia, from the 20th, Academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the existence of "human-to-human phenomenon."
21号，我们去重点医院采访，感觉就和往日截然不同。
21, we went to the key hospital interview, the feeling is very different from the past.
虽然武汉各个医院都早已启动了针对疫情的应急预案，有的把四个病区都开辟为发热门诊，但根本没用，医生好像全都扎堆聚集在急诊发热科，里面的病人坐在角落，躺在地上，医生人手有限，根本管不过来。
Although Wuhan hospitals have all started emergency plans for the epidemic, some of the four areas have been opened into fever clinics, but no use, doctors seem to gather in the emergency fever department, where patients sit in the corner, lying on the ground, doctors limited hands, can not control.
两天的采访，我也感受到了防护措施的两重天。
Two days of interviews, I also felt the protection of the dual days.
第一天是在发热门诊，我们每个记者都配备了二级防护措施。
The first day was a fever clinic, and each of us was equipped with secondary protection.
N95口罩，脚套，一层蓝色无纺布的隔离衣，防止眼部感染的面屏。
N95 mask, foot mask, a blue non-woven cloth covering to prevent eye infections on the screen.
到了第二天，我在医生办公室的区域采访，没有直接进入发热门诊，医生们就只给我们配备了一个外科口罩。
The next day, I was in the doctor's office area, did not enter the fever clinic directly, the doctors only equipped us with a surgical mask.
我问，没有N95了吗？医生们面露难色地回答，「这个其实就可以。
I asked, is there no N95? The doctors replied with a sullen look, "This is all right."
」到了发热诊区，病人脸上的口罩五花八门，有N95，有外科口罩，有普通的医用护理口罩，防雾霾口罩，还有五颜六色的劳保口罩，物资供应严重不足的情况下，大家把家里能戴出来的都戴上了。
"At the fever clinic, patients' faces ranged from N95 to surgical masks, to regular medical masks, to smog masks, to colorful labor masks, and to the severe shortage of supplies, where everyone was able to wear what they could.
医院里也没有多余的床位。
There are no extra beds in the hospital.
22号，我有同事的亲人开始发烧，他找了熟悉的记者朋友，也打听了十几家医院，几乎问遍了武汉有条件收治的重点医院，得到的都是相同的答案——没有床位。
22, I have a colleague's relatives began to have a fever, he found familiar reporters and friends, also asked about a dozen hospitals, almost all of Wuhan conditional admission key hospitals, the answer is the same - no beds.
发热患者太多，医院只能优先提供床位给重症高烧的患者。
Fever patients too much, hospitals can only give priority to the provision of beds for patients with severe fever.
其他轻症患者，确实收不进来。
Other light cases do not come in.
何况，医院也是感染重灾区，对轻症患者来说，住进来不见得是件好事。
Moreover, the hospital is also infected with the disaster areas, light patients, living in may not be a good thing.
短缺的还有各种医疗物资。
There is also a shortage of medical supplies.
在各大医院公布出救援物资接收的地址电话后，我们对接了很多公益团队和组织，安排接应捐赠者的车辆。
After each major hospital announced the address telephone received by the relief supplies, we docked a number of pro bono groups and organizations and arranged to receive the donor's vehicle.
目前他们都还在路上，城里只能靠私家车和货拉拉走物流。
At present they are still on the road, the city has to rely on private cars and goods Lala logistics.
即便情势都这么严峻了，我父母还不戴口罩上街遛弯儿，根本拦不住。
Even though the situation was so serious, my parents were walking around the streets without a mask and couldn't stop them.
这也代表了武汉很多中老年人的态度，新闻报道里冷冰冰的数字不足以让他们警惕。
This also represents the attitude of Wuhan many middle-aged and old people, the cold number in the news report is not enough to make them alert.
这几天，封城了，他们终于有点着急了。
These days, the city closed, they finally a little anxious.
因为之前的大意，家里的蔬菜已经在除夕前一天全部吃光了，除夕这一天，我们午饭的饺子是之前包好速冻的，到了晚上，伙食就没有年夜饭的排场，只能吃一碗面。
The vegetables in our house had been eaten the day before New Year's Eve. On New Year's Eve, the dumplings we had packed for lunch had been frozen. At night, there would be no dinner, only a bowl of noodles.
除夕晚上，我从我妈手里接过她亲手煮好的面条，没有多说什么话。
On New Year's Eve, I took the noodles she had cooked herself from my mother and said nothing more.
她走下楼，我关上门，自己吃完一个人的年夜饭。
She went downstairs, and I closed the door and ate a man's New Year's Eve.
其实，吃什么已经不重要了。
In fact, it doesn't matter what you eat.
我没有心情看春晚，和朋友聊了一会儿天，就按时睡了。
I was not in the mood to watch the Spring Festival Gala. I chatted with my friends for a while and slept on time.
说完全不害怕是不可能的，我只能在心里期盼不会有事。
It's impossible to be completely unafraid. I can only hope in my heart that it will be all right.
但我还没有跟父母严肃认真地去谈论生死，毕竟，在除夕夜谈论这个问题，看上去并不是一个好的时机。
But I haven't been serious about life and death with my parents. After all, talking about it on New Year's Eve does not seem like a good time.
。
.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
除夕夜，他们在武汉。
They were in Wuhan on New Year's Eve.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "除夕夜，他们在武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at Wuhan & quot; on New Year's Eve;
var msg_desc = "「我们真的希望有那么一天，春天可以早点来。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We do hope one day spring can come early.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
