数百号源几秒抢光，新冠疫情会成就互联网医疗吗。
Hundreds of seconds to snatch the light, the new crown will be the result of Internet health.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
新冠疫情期间，居家隔离的疑似患者，和非新冠肺炎患者，都需要诊疗服务，但去医院有交叉感染风险。
During the New Crown Epidemic, homebound quarantined patients, and non-new crown pneumonia patients, required treatment services, but there was a risk of cross-infection to hospitals.
于是在线问诊需求暴增。
As a result, demand for online consultations surged.
好大夫创始人王航估计，目前“线上每天能服务12万人”。
Wang Air, founder of a good doctor, estimates that "120,000 people can be served online every day."
黑龙江、武汉、上海等地多家公立医院迅速开通互联网医疗服务。
Heilongjiang, Wuhan, Shanghai and other public hospitals quickly opened Internet medical services.
多家互联网医疗平台，甚至社交媒体平台也搭建了线上问诊通道。
A number of Internet medical platforms, even social media platforms, have built online access channels.
但先天准备不足，和运行机制的不成熟，使得互联网医院在此次疫情中起到的作用有限。
But innate preparation is insufficient, and operation mechanism is immature, make Internet hospital in this epidemic action is limited.
业内人士认为，在医患双方需求倒置情况下，拐点必然出现。
Industry insiders believe that in the case of inversion of demand on both sides, the inflection point is inevitable.
△ 图片来源：yestone“一开始没有想到，线上义诊会有那么大量，只要把号源放出去，几秒钟就迅速被抢光。
2007-9-24 16: 48 "Originally, we didn't think that there would be so many free consultations online. Just let the number go out and it will be stolen in seconds
”2020年1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布封城。
Wuhan announced the city's closure in the early hours of January 23, 2020.
这时，武汉之外的老百姓才意识到疫情来势汹汹。
At this time, the common people outside Wuhan only realized that the outbreak of menacing.
疫情最严重的武汉，医护人员的负荷也到了一个极限。
Wuhan, where the epidemic is most severe, has stretched the capacity of medical staff to its limits.
好大夫创始人王航在那一天紧急上线了线上免费义诊。
The founder of the good doctor, Wang Airways, went online for free treatment on that day.
几百个号源，几秒钟被抢光。
Hundreds of numbers, stolen in a few seconds.
这让王航始料不及。
This surprised Wang Airlines.
对居家隔离的疑似患者而言，线上的医生咨询有一些帮助，至少是稍有宽慰。
On-line consultations with doctors can be helpful, or at least a little comforting, for homebound patients in isolation.
但随着全国确诊与疑似患者猛增，很快，线上的医生也不够用了。
But as the number of diagnosed and suspected patients surged across the country, doctors on-line soon ran out of them.
另一方面，非新冠肺炎感染的其他患者因为担心院内交叉感染，也不敢去医院，转而选择了线上。
On the other hand, other patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia did not dare to go to the hospital for fear of cross-infection in the hospital.
公立医院也纷纷加班加点部署互联网医院的服务。
Public hospitals are also working overtime to deploy Internet hospitals.
向来不温不火的互联网医疗，在这次疫情中，终于被大大方方地推向了“幕前”。
Traditionally tepid Internet medical treatment, in this outbreak, was finally pushed to the "curtain."
疫情持续，新的问题出现了大年初二，新冠疫情带来的恐慌仍在蔓延。
The epidemic continues, new problems have emerged in the second year of the New Year, the new crown epidemic of panic is still spreading.
王航需要每天调用两三千医生，在线上免费义诊，他估计目前“线上每天能服务12万人”。
Wang needs to call two or three thousand doctors a day for free online consultations, and he estimates that "120,000 people can be reached online every day."
咨询的人来自五湖四海，前三名的省份中，山东最大，其次才是湖北。
The consultants came from all over the country, Shandong was the largest of the top three provinces, followed by Hubei.
山东省胸科医院呼吸内科主治医生魏敏，最多的时候，一天就回复了200多位患者。
Wei Min, chief physician of respiratory department of Shandong Chest Hospital, answered more than 200 patients in one day.
自己的症状是否感染新冠病毒、目前的症状是否需要去医院就诊——是问得最多的问题。
Whether one's symptoms are infected with the new crown virus, or whether current symptoms require a visit to a hospital, is the most frequently asked question.
王航也意识到居家隔离的那部分患者更需要管理起来。
Wang also realized that the isolated portion of the home needs to be managed more.
在此之后，好大夫组织了医疗团队，一对一给居家隔离的疑似患者提供服务。
After that, the good doctor organized a medical team to provide one-on-one services to suspected patients isolated in their homes.
线上把这些人管理起来，有的问题可以指导他们在家里解决，如果发现病情恶化，就提醒他们到医院就诊。
The online management of these people, some problems can guide them to solve at home, if found to be deteriorating, to remind them to go to the hospital.
但这种轻问诊+轻诊断模式有其局限性。
But this light consultation + light diagnostic model has its limitations.
尤其是处于疫情之中的中、重度患者无法获得相应帮助。
Particularly in the midst of the epidemic in the middle and severe patients can not get the corresponding help.
对多数互联网医院而言，问诊很难由“轻”向“重”转变。
For most Internet hospitals, the transition from "light" to "heavy" is difficult.
原因就在中国的医疗资源整体不足，面对新冠疫情这样的特殊状况，线下的需求已让医生们应接不暇，更难以顾及线上，而且普通医生轻问诊在能力上也显得捉襟见肘。
The reason is that China's health-care resources are generally inadequate, with off-line needs overwhelming doctors, making it more difficult to keep track of them, and the capacity of general practitioners to conduct minor consultations stretched beyond their capacity.
这往往需要专家与普通医护配合组队，各司其职，才能应对短时间大量涌入的患者需求。
This often requires specialist and general care teams, each with its own responsibilities, to cope with the rapid influx of patients.
如何把线下的医生团队运营模式复制到线上，这是关键。
How to copy the off-line physician team operating mode onto the line is key.
“轻问诊的底层架构都是一个医生对一个患者，而我们相当于把底层架构全换掉，相当于一组医生对一群患者，形成大楼的结构，工程极为复杂，而且风险极高。
"The underlying architecture of light consultation is a doctor-to-patient process, and we're changing the underlying structure, which is the equivalent of a team of doctors to a group of patients, building structures that are extremely complex and high-risk.
”王航说，去年一度把技术团队折磨的够呛，终于把底层结构全部打通。
Mr Wang said last year it had tortured the technical team to the point of breaking through the underlying structure.
而这一布局始于九年前。
This pattern began nine years ago.
2010年，中国医学科学院阜外医院心血管内科主任医师吴永健找到王航，“他的心脏支架术后患者越来越多，管不了了，想做个系统，把这些病人管起来。
In 2010, Wu Yongjian, chief physician of cardiovascular medicine at Fuwai Hospital of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, approached Wang, saying, "The number of patients after cardiac stent surgery is increasing.
”王航说，一头扎进去就做了这么多年。
"said Wang, jumping in and doing it for so many years.
患者离开医院之后的长期管理，一度占了好大夫一半的业务。
The patient's long-term management after leaving the hospital once occupied half of the business of a good doctor.
“对于（新冠肺炎）中重度患者，我们做了一个标准的流程。
"We did a standard procedure for people with moderate to severe [new crown pneumonia].
”王航说，此次疫情之中用来管理居家隔离患者的，正是原先管理出院患者的系统。
Mr Wang said it was the system originally in place to manage patients being discharged from the hospital that was used to manage the quarantine.
系统很庞大、很复杂，花了这么多年才逐渐把它搭起来的。
The system was huge and complex, and it took so many years to build it up.
比如要有服务流程，不同科室、不同疾病，标准诊疗流程是不一样的，包括病人在不同时段的具体医嘱，还要有一套病情的追踪系统。
For example, to have service flow, different departments, different diseases, standard procedures are different, including patients in different time specific medical orders, but also a tracking system.
除此之外，上述医生团队是一个关键点。
In addition, the above team of doctors is a key point.
如今，基本形式是一个领衔专家带几个助手、护士。
Today, the basic form is a leading specialist with a few assistants and nurses.
“就跟线下一样，专家早上过来查查房，说这个病人没问题，那个病人的方案有问题，待会做个病历讨论，来指导一下，然后领衔专家就走了，今天一天见不到他，但他会来把控整体的服务质量、医疗风险，我们要在线上复制这套东西。
"Just like offline, the expert came in this morning and said that the patient had a problem with the patient's plan. He would discuss it later, give guidance, and then the leading specialist would leave.
把团队建起来。
Build the team.
这是非常关键的一大步，也是很难啃的一个过程。
This is a crucial big step and a difficult process to nibble through.
”王航说。
'said Wang.
只有复制这样一套东西之后，王航认为，医生对于整个患者群体的承载能力才能提高。
Only after copying such a set of things, Wang believes that doctors for the entire group of patients can improve the carrying capacity.
1月29日以后，王航发现疫情发展又有了新的更大问题。
After January 29, Wang found that the outbreak of the development of a new and larger problem.
北大人民医院的风湿免疫科主任栗占国给他打电话，提到春节假期后，医院开始上班，但是很多患者都不敢上医院了，而且医生们也在劝告患者如果不是急症、重症，先不要来医院以免增加交叉感染的机会。
Li Zhanguo, director of rheumatism immunity at the Peking University People's Hospital, called him to say that after the Spring Festival the hospital began to work, but many patients were afraid to go to the hospital and doctors were advising patients not to come to the hospital if it was not urgent or serious.
栗主任就问王航，他的病人每隔一段时间需要来一趟医院，能不能在线上给该规律复诊的老病人提供服务。
Chestnut director asked Wang Hang, his patients need to come to the hospital at regular intervals, can provide services online to the regular old patients.
“这是典型标志性的一件事，我们的线上服务就转向了全部的患者，而不仅仅是疑似肺炎患者以及恐慌患者。
"It's a classic sign that our online services are turning to all patients, not just suspected pneumonia patients and panic patients."
”王航记忆犹新。
"Wang remembered vividly.
2月4日起，好大夫线上的21万医生全部开通了线上义诊，所有的医生都可以针对自己的老患者发一张二维码，告诉患者可以在线上联系自己。
Since Feb. 4, 210,000 doctors on Good Doctor Line have opened online free consultations, and all doctors can send a two-dimensional code to their old patients, telling them they can contact them online.
三天之内，2万多名医生对自己的患者，通过朋友圈、患者群、微信群等渠道，发出了这样的通知。
Within three days, more than 20,000 doctors sent out such notices to their patients through a network of friends, patients, and micro-groups.
互联网医疗的一剂催化剂1月22日，大年二十七，黑龙江尚未被疫情阴影笼罩。
Internet medicine a catalyst January 22, about 27, Heilongjiang has not been overshadowed by the epidemic.
老板亲自带团队在春运高峰中去哈尔滨医科大学附属第一医院洽谈，翟雪连颇为意外，这所黑龙江省的“协和”医院，竟有意向建立互联网医院，并且要求服务功能完善、速度要快。
The boss personally led the team to Harbin Medical University in the peak of the first hospital, Zhai Xuelian quite surprised, this Heilongjiang "Concorde" hospital, the intention to set up Internet hospitals, and requested that the service function well, fast.
她是卓健科技首席战略官，她所在的公司比较重要的一项业务，就是帮助公立医院建立互联网医院服务。
She is the chief strategic officer of Zhuang Jian Technology, and one of the most important aspects of her company's business is to help public hospitals set up Internet hospital services.
与往年不一样的是，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，卓健科技从年前开始，就陆陆续续收到全国大大小小公立医院要求上线发热门诊、搭建区域应急平台的要求，整个春节几乎全员加班。
Unlike previous years, due to the new crown pneumonia epidemic, since the beginning of the year, health technology has gradually received requests from large and small public hospitals across the country to set up an on-line heating clinic, set up a regional emergency platform, the entire Spring Festival almost all overtime.
之后的剧情发展，更是出乎翟雪连意料。
After the development of the plot, is more than Zhai Xuelian surprised.
中国的三甲医院向来处于强势地位，医生太忙，患者太多，互联网医院是“新兴事物”，一向属于医院内重要但不紧急的事务。
China's Sanjia Hospital has always been in a strong position, too busy doctors, too many patients, Internet hospitals are "new things," has always been an important but not urgent matter within the hospital.
真正搭建一个互联网医院，涉及到省级监管平台完成、行政审批、技术对接多个环节，通常花费的时候少则半年，多则一年以上。
Building a real Internet hospital involves the completion of a provincial regulatory platform, administrative approval, technical docking many links, usually spent less than half a year, more than a year.
新冠疫情无疑给了互联网医院一剂催化剂。
The new crowning epidemic has undoubtedly given Internet hospitals a catalyst.
1月23日，也就是除夕的前一天，黑龙江省确认首例新冠肺炎病例。
On January 23, the day before New Year's Eve, Heilongjiang Province confirmed the first case of new crown pneumonia.
两天之后，哈尔滨医科大学附属第一医院要求紧急上线互联网医院。
Two days later, Harbin Medical University attached to the first hospital emergency access to the Internet hospital.
短短一周后，1月31日，哈医大线上门诊服务就开通。
Just a week later, on January 31, the HATU online outpatient service opened.
“先把最紧急的功能上线。
"Put the most urgent functions on line first.
48小时不到，图文资讯就上线了。
In less than 48 hours, graphic and textual information is on line.
现在，也开始支持视频问诊。
Video consultations are now also supported.
”翟雪连说。
"said Zhai.
与此同时，黑龙江省卫健委做出了迅速反应：以省为单位建立互联网发热门诊平台，接入了全省101家医院。
At the same time, Heilongjiang Wei Bodyguard Committee made a rapid response: the province as a unit to establish an Internet fever clinic platform, access to 101 hospitals throughout the province.
一位参与开发设计的工作人员表示，计划是7天开通服务。
One staff member involved in the development of the design indicated that the service was planned to be operational for seven days.
“如果没有疫情，这种量级的对接，最快也要三个月。
"Without the outbreak, it would have taken up to three months at the earliest for this kind of kind of docking.
也是非常时期非常手段，各个厂商和医院的响应都会很快。
It is also extraordinary means of extraordinary times, the response of various manufacturers and hospitals will be rapid.
费用什么的都往后放了，疫情期间很多厂商很多建设服务都免费。
The cost of everything has been put back, many manufacturers during the epidemic many construction services are free.
”2月4日，哈医大各附属医院和省医院，全部暂停医院门诊工作。
On February 4, all hospitals attached to the university and provincial hospitals were suspended.
院长们都在紧锣密鼓地布置线上门诊。
The deans were busy setting up the online clinic.
从全行业来看，互联网医疗无论是第三方平台还是医疗机构主导，整个疫情中都不曾停歇。
From an industry-wide point of view, whether the third-party platform or medical institutions dominated, the entire epidemic has not stopped.
1月24日，阿里健康联合支付宝，定向针对湖北地区紧急推出在线义诊服务。
January 24, Ali health joint payment treasure, directed toward Hubei region to launch an emergency online free clinic service.
平均每小时有3000人发起在线咨询，超过90%的问题集中在新冠肺炎的防治上。
With an average of 3,000 online consultations per hour, more than 90 per cent of the questions focused on the fight against pneumonia.
平安好医生、微博、京东健康、丁香医生等平台也开通了线上问诊通道。
Ping An good doctor, Weibo, Jingdong health, clove doctor and other platforms have also opened online consultation channels.
微医集团数据显示，至1月29日13时，微医互联网总医院抗冠免费义诊专区，访问量超过7198万，累计提供医疗咨询服务约64.5万人次。
As of 1300 hours on January 29, over 71.98 million visits were made to the anti-crowning free medical consultation area of the General Hospital of Micromedicine Internet, providing a cumulative total of 645,000 medical consultations.
春雨医生相关负责人透露，其平台上呼吸内科的问题量增长大约6倍，全平台问题量最近相比2019年平均问诊量接近翻番，APP日活约提升了30%。
The number of questions in respiratory medicine on its platform has increased about six-fold, the average number of consultation sessions across the platform has nearly doubled recently compared to 2019, and APP daily life has increased by about 30%, said Dr. Chunyu, director of Respiratory Medicine.
春雨还与湖北地区300多家地产或物业公司合作，将免费义诊带入小区的居家隔离用户。
Spring Rain also works with more than 300 real estate or property companies in Hubei Province to bring free free medical treatment to residential isolated users.
与此同时，多家公立医院也开始在线问诊。
At the same time, several public hospitals began to consult online.
1月24日，华中科技大学附属同济医院在医院官方APP“掌上同济”和官方微信公众号上，开通“发热门诊”在线问诊功能，并提出“不限号”。
On January 24, Tongji Hospital, an affiliate of the Central University of Science and Technology, launched an online consultation service with an unlimited number on the official APP, Palm Tongji, and the official microphone public sign.
在线门诊上线首日，近400位同济专家接诊，问诊患者达1万人次。
On the first day of the on-line outpatient consultation, nearly 400 co-workers received consultations, and 10,000 patients were treated.
至1月30日，在线门诊量已累计超过4.6万人次。
By January 30, more than 46,000 outpatient visits had been made online.
上海市卫健委主任邬惊雷在新闻发布会上表示，1月29号起，上海市8家市级医院已开通互联网咨询服务，1月29～30日总计访问量达到17.6万人次，2387人次咨询。
Since January 29, eight municipal hospitals in Shanghai have opened Internet consultation services, with a total of 176,000 visits and 2,387 consultation visits on January 29 to 30, Wu Jilai, director of the Shanghai Fitness and Fitness Committee, said at a press conference.
2月1日起，再增加17家市级医院开通咨询服务。
Since 1 February, an additional 17 municipal hospitals have opened counselling services.
在王航看来，疫情发生在武汉，面对如此大的疫情爆发，当地医生资源全部投入进去，远远不够用，医生资源已经枯竭了。
In Wang's view, the outbreak occurred in Wuhan, in the face of such an outbreak, local doctors are fully committed to resources, far from enough, doctors have exhausted resources.
这个时候，国家再调派、投放大量医生，也还是不够。
At this time, the state redeploying and putting in a large number of doctors, is still not enough.
“因为有大量病人在家里，其实只有互联网才能调动起来。
"Because there are so many patients at home, only the Internet can be mobilized.
”地位关键，但作用有限国家统计信息中心数据显示，2019年1至10月，全国医疗卫生机构总诊疗人次达70.2亿人次。
Statistics from the National Statistical Information Center, a key but limited provider of health services, show that 7.02 billion visits were made between January and October 2019.
但微医、好大夫、春雨等几个互联网第三方大平台的问诊量，只占全国问诊量的6%。
However, the number of consultations on several large Internet-based third-party platforms, such as microdoctors, good doctors and spring rain, accounted for only 6 per cent of consultations nationwide.
动脉网的数据显示，截至2019年10月底，互联网医院数量已经达到269家。
Data from the Arterial Network show that by the end of October 2019, the number of Internet hospitals had reached 269.
与之相比，据不完统计，全国有三级医院2501家，其中三甲医院1479家。
By comparison, according to statistics, there are 2,501 tertiary hospitals in China, of which 1,479 are triple A hospitals.
由此可见，线上、线下力量的差距依然悬殊。
Thus, the gap between online and offline forces remains wide.
与第三方互联网医疗平台显著的流量增长相比，公立医院的互联网医院在此次疫情中，数量增长还较为有限。
Compared with the significant increase in traffic on third-party Internet medical platforms, the number of Internet hospitals in public hospitals has increased only slightly during the epidemic.
例如，某省医院的用户量近期增长率为36%。
For example, the number of users in a provincial hospital has recently increased by 36 per cent.
翟雪连肯定的说，医疗互联网化在此次疫情中是非常关键的一部分，“提升效率、防止交叉感染、服务更多患者，很多地方把它用起来了”是一个事实，但她觉得遗憾的是，互联网医院在这场战役中的地位关键，从数据看，却没有变成中流砥柱，“这非常可惜。
Zhai affirmed that medical internet access is a crucial part of the epidemic, "improving efficiency, preventing cross-infection, serving more patients, and making it available in many places," but she regretted that the Internet hospital's place in the battle was crucial, but the numbers were not the mainstay.
”这种可惜，一方面，源自于互联网医院的先天准备不足。
This pity, on the one hand, stems from innate lack of preparation in Internet hospitals.
正如一栋大楼，基建不牢再做改造会有各种问题。
Like a building, there are problems with poorly built and renovated buildings.
“HIS等院内软件行业已经30年了，但直到现在，都没有完全符合院内业务对外互联网化的产品出来，医院院内系统都是定制的，换个HIS，医院要经历大半年、一年的时间，还要再适应，HIS不轻易换。
"Hospital software industry such as HIS has been 30 years, but until now, there is not fully in line with the external Internet products hospital hospital system is customized, change HIS, the hospital will go through most of the half year, a year, but also to adapt, HIS is not easy to change.
”一位行业人士说，网络挂号、移动支付刚出来的时候，几乎每个医院都是这样的，一做系统直连，院内系统就挂。
One industry source said that when the internet was registered and mobile payments first came out, it was the case in almost every hospital, with the hospital system hanging as soon as the system was connected.
另一方面，源自于大部分公立医院没有建立成熟的运行机制。
On the other hand, most public hospitals do not have well-established operational mechanisms.
从2016年开始，翟雪连给很多医院建互联网医院时都会告诉对方，功能完善的互联网医院不只是线问诊，它是线下服务能力的线上版，线上流程是需要再造的，而且需要相关科室部门配合。
Starting in 2016, when Zhai built Internet hospitals in many hospitals, he told the other side that a fully functioning Internet hospital is not just an online consultation, it is an online version of the capacity of offline services, and online processes need to be re-engineered and coordinated by the relevant sections and departments.
就从机制上来讲，门诊排班、医技服务、收费机制、客服能力、开药、复诊甚至医生绩效等都需要每家医院根据自己的实际情况来调整和磨合。
In terms of mechanism, out-patient scheduling, medical technology service, charging mechanism, customer service ability, drug prescribing, reexamination and even doctor performance all need to be adjusted and fitted by each hospital according to its actual situation.
“系统先行，制度配套。
"System first, system supporting.
有了系统之后，制度、绩效配套等完善，后面线上、线下宣传推广用互联网行业已经成熟的那套办法，才好使。
With the system, the system, performance matching, and so on, after the line, the promotion of the Internet industry with mature methods, just so good.
”翟雪连说，泛互联网运营，工具只是其次，院内制度如何，流程怎么配合，怎么把线下的流量导到线上，用户如何运营，这些都很关键。
Zhai said Internet-wide operations, tools are only the second most important, how the hospital system works, how the process works, how to channel offline traffic to the line and how users operate.
现实与理想的差异颇为明显。
The difference between reality and ideals is stark.
一位医院负责人透露，很多三甲医院上线了互联网医院之后，院长说信息科上完了，医务科来负责，医务科也说好，简单地排了一下班，再知会一下老百姓。
After many hospitals went online, the dean said the information section was finished and the medical section said it was OK to simply queue up for work and let people know.
这个热闹劲一过，医生对排班意见很大。
As soon as the excitement was over, the doctor had a great deal of opinion about scheduling.
“因为坐了一上午，没几个患者来，这半天就被浪费了，之后就不愿来。
'Because after sitting all morning, not many patients came, and the half-day was wasted, and then I didn't want to come.
但偶尔还是会有一两个患者来咨询，医生却不在线，这就是一个双向的恶性循环。
But once in a while one or two patients consult, but the doctor is not online, which is a two-way vicious circle.
”即使基建牢固、机制完善，没有足够的医生在线服务，最为致命。
Even if the infrastructure is strong and institutional, the lack of adequate online services for doctors is the most lethal.
“很多互联网医院做得很好，我们给它上线了发热门诊，就发现没有相应的医生在线做支撑，根本忙不过来。
"A lot of Internet hospitals do very well, we put it on-line heating clinic, found no corresponding doctors online to do support, simply busy.
有些医生甚至要求把接诊停掉。
Some doctors have even asked to have their appointments stopped.
”一位互联网医院负责人说。
"said a director of the internet hospital.
阿里健康遇到了同样问题。
Ali's health suffers from the same problem.
“访问量大量增加后，可提供服务的线上医生资源不足。
"With the significant increase in visits, there is a shortage of online doctors available to provide services.
”阿里健康的一位负责人表示，通过各种渠道在全国范围内招募更多专业的医生加入平台支援。
Ali's health official said more doctors had been recruited nationally through various channels to join the platform.
但在这个过程中，也客观存在着有过往线上服务经验，可以第一时间快速、熟悉使用互联网工具解答患者咨询的医生还是比较少。
But in this process, there are also objective online service experience, can be the first time quickly, familiar with the use of Internet tools to answer patient consultations or relatively few doctors.
翟雪连团队在疫情期间与医院沟通是否开通线上发热门诊时发现，有些公立医院直接回复，不开通线上门诊，线下医生忙不过来。
Zhai Xuelian's team during the epidemic with the hospital whether to open an online fever clinic found that some public hospitals directly responded, do not open an online clinic, doctors busy offline.
“线下来一个患者，医生必须要处理，这就是他第一紧急的事情，而线上这个患者，其实是没有办法先顾及。
"There's a patient down the line that the doctor has to deal with, that's his first priority, and the online patient, in fact, can't take care of it first.
”拐点会不会来临？2003年“非典”，因为一名员工感染，阿里巴巴当时500多人在家隔离。
Will the inflection point come? In 2003, more than 500 people were isolated at home after an employee became infected.
但也因此，淘宝的电商模式，迅速得以成为用户习惯。
But also as a result, Taobao's electric business model, quickly became a user habit.
17年后，全国老百姓在新冠病毒的阴影下，又一次出不了门。
Seventeen years later, ordinary people across the country are again in the shadow of the new crown virus.
这会是互联网医疗的拐点吗？线上的患者和线下患者，数量对等，甚至更多。
Will this be the inflection point for Internet medicine? Online patients and offline patients, equal in number, or even more.
在翟雪连看来，是一个相对比较漫长的过程。
In Zhai Xuelian's view, is a relatively long process.
因为这次疫情，这个过程可能会提速。
Because of this outbreak, the process is likely to accelerate.
即使没有本次疫情，拐点早晚也会来的。
Even without this outbreak, the inflection point will come sooner or later.
在医患双方需求倒置情况下，拐点必然出现。
The inflection point must appear when the demand of doctor and patient is inverted.
“现在是卖方市场，大家都求着大医院。
"It's a seller's market and everyone is begging for a big hospital.
当反过来，医院要去求患者的时候，要考虑经营收入的指标，要提高患者服务能力的时候，其实这个拐点就来了。
When, on the other hand, the hospital to ask patients, to consider the indicators of operating income, to improve the ability to serve patients, in fact this inflection point.
”在王航看来，“疫情会不会是互联网医疗的转折点，很难说。
In Wang's view, "It is hard to say whether the outbreak will be a turning point in Internet medicine.
但有一个词，是可以体现出这次互联网医疗的一个作用，叫第二战场。
But there is a word that can be reflected in this Internet medical role, called the Second Battlefield.
一端连接了在家里边这些人，另外一端连接了分布在全国各地的医生们。
One end connects these people at home and the other end connects doctors across the country.
”第二战场里，既有公立医院主导的互联网医院，也有第三方平台的互联网医疗。
In the second battleground, there are both public-hospital-led Internet hospitals and third-party platforms for Internet medicine.
至少从目前的情况看，在此次疫情中，第三方平台的用户与医生均更为活跃一些。
For now, at least, third-party platform users and doctors are more active in the epidemic.
一位互联网医疗的人士认为，公立医疗体系一方面是此前重视不够，另一方面是围绕自身的需求构建互联网平台，还是服务于局部地区、有限的患者群。
One Internet health-care expert argues that the public health-care system is not focused enough on the one hand, but on the other, whether it is built around one's own needs or serves a limited, localized group of patients.
但是当疫情爆发的时候，当地医疗资源都不够用，更需要跨区域去调动，“单个医院的互联网医院是不够用的，只能是第三方平台，更具备跨医院之间、跨地域之间调动医疗资源的能力。
But when the outbreak occurred, local medical resources were insufficient, and cross-regional mobilization was even more necessary. "Internet hospitals in single hospitals are not sufficient, but can only be a third-party platform with the ability to mobilize medical resources across hospitals and regions."
”王航以为，更深层的是机制问题。
Mr Wang thinks the deeper problem is the mechanism.
“第三方平台最大的机制，就是代表患者的利益，靠患者更近。
"The biggest mechanism of a third-party platform is to represent the interests of the patient, closer to the patient.
我们把患者的诉求放在平台上，据此制定游戏规则。
We put patients' claims on the platform and set the rules of the game accordingly.
”不过，第三方平台在疫情爆发期间也有自身的局限。
However, third-party platforms have their own limitations during outbreaks.
王航说，现在好大夫在线最大的问题就是药品送达，例如武汉封城，配送药品有赖于顺丰、圆通，但在疫区目前已无法实现。
The biggest problem with good doctors online these days, says Wang, is the delivery of medicines, such as Wuhan, which depends on Shunfeng and Yuantong, but is currently unavailable in affected areas.
一位行业人士指出，此次疫情的传播力惊人，带来的问题是医疗资源的挤兑和交叉感染的风险，政府也采取了隔离、封城等措施，然而，老百姓的病不能不看，在这种情况下，互联网医疗线上、远程、高效的优势就体现出来了。
One industry source pointed out that the spread of the epidemic is alarming, the risk of a run on medical resources and cross-infection, the government has also taken measures such as isolation, blockades, etc. However, the common people can not see the disease, in this case, the Internet medical online, remote, efficient advantages.
谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: tzz19930706 Seasonal Mini-Signal: janejiminhua We respect original copyright and do not reprint it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
数百号源几秒抢光，新冠疫情会成就互联网医疗吗。
Hundreds of seconds to snatch the light, the new crown will be the result of Internet health.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "数百号源几秒抢光，新冠疫情会成就互联网医疗吗";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "线上优势明显，但目前作用有限。
var msg _ desc = & quot; While its online advantages are clear, its impact is limited.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
