失去的机会，新冠疫情早期被忽视的小医院病例。
A lost opportunity for the early neglect of the New Crown in small hospital cases.
吴靖 王晨。
Wu Jing Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
优抚医院距离华南海鲜市场200米，2019年12月接诊了3名“不明原因肺炎“患者，包括后来转诊至金银潭医院的第一例确诊患者。
Yaocao Hospital is 200 meters from the South China Seafood Market. In December 2019, three patients with "unknown pneumonia" were admitted, including the first confirmed case subsequently referred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
疫情伊始，各级疾控部门做的流行病学调查中，小医院的医生没有被重视，这很可能导致新冠肺炎早期诊断标准失误。
At the beginning of the outbreak, doctors in small hospitals were not taken seriously in epidemiological investigations conducted by disease control departments at all levels, which may have led to a failure in the early diagnosis criteria for Newcomial Pneumonia.
1月上旬，优抚医院发现医护人员和住院患者感染，但因为没有华南市场接触史，不符合诊断标准，没有上报。
Early in January, Yaocao Hospital found infections among medical staff and hospitalized patients, but did not report them due to lack of contact history in the South China market, non-compliance with diagnostic criteria.
1月20日，钟南山宣布新冠肺炎“人传人“，这已是10天之后。
10 days later, Zhong Nan Shan announced January 20 as the "human-to-human" new crown pneumonia.
2019年12月12日，武汉市优抚医院门诊医生刘永（化名），接诊了一位病情有点奇怪的病人。
December 12, 2019, Wuhan Youcao Hospital out-patient doctor Liu Yong (alias), received a somewhat strange patient.
以至于近两个月后，一提起这个病人，他当时的状况，说的每一句话，刘永都记得异常清晰。
Almost two months later, Liu Yong remembered the patient, his condition and every word he said.
病人症状并不严重，但不像这个季节常见的流感：干咳，但不发烧，也不流鼻涕。
The patient's symptoms are not serious, but unlike the usual flu of the season: dry cough but no fever and no runny nose.
病人说他是华南海鲜市场商户，隔壁商户的七八个员工连续几天高烧不退，干咳，整个店铺都没人上班，担心自己也被传染，于是来做检查。
The patient said he was a seafood market merchant in southern China. Seven or eight employees of the next door had a high fever for several days.
现在回头看，这很可能是新冠肺炎最早的患者之一。
In retrospect, this is probably one of the earliest cases of new crown pneumonia.
武汉市优抚医院，是一个以精神专科为主的二级综合医院，距离华南海鲜市场仅有200米。
Wuhan Youcao Hospital, is a mental specialty-based secondary general hospital, only 200 meters from the South China seafood market.
华南海鲜市场的2000多户商家和附近的居民，构成了来这家医院就诊人群的一部分，他们还会去附近的另一家二甲医院——武汉市红十字会医院和一家三甲医院——湖北省中西医结合医院。
More than 2,000 businesses and nearby residents of the South China Seafood Market make up part of the hospital's attendance, and they will visit another nearby hospital, Wuhan Red Cross, and Hubei, a triple-A hospital, which combines Chinese and Western medicine.
△图片来源：手机截图十二月中旬，这三家医院就开始陆续发现有一些和以往季节性流感症状不一样的病人：不少人并无发热，只是干咳，肺部却有显著病变。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Mobile phone screenshots In mid-December, the three hospitals began to find patients with different seasonal flu symptoms. Many people had no fever, only dry cough, but had significant lung lesions.
小医院的发热门诊无法确诊这些病例，医生建议他们转往另外的医院。
Fever clinics in small hospitals were unable to confirm these cases and doctors advised them to transfer to another hospital.
12月27日，在武汉金银潭医院被确诊的、最早的新冠肺炎病人之一，就来自优抚医院的转诊。
On December 27, one of the first cases of Newcomial Pneumonia diagnosed at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital came from a referral to the Youcao Hospital.
多数不发烧的病人，不会第一时间选择去武汉当地医疗资源最强大的协和、同济、中南、人民等四大医院，往往先去小诊所，或者二级医院。
Most patients who do not have a fever will not be the first choice to Wuhan local medical resources, the most powerful Concorde, Tongji, the Central South, the people, and other four major hospitals, often go to small clinics, or level II hospitals.
而四大医院接诊的病人，大多是在辗转诊所、二级医院之后，高烧不退、有严重肺炎症状的病人。
Most of the patients treated in the four major hospitals were patients with severe pneumonia and high fever after referral clinics and level II hospitals.
这意味着，这些小医院，反倒是早于大医院最早接触新冠肺炎病人的医院。
This means that these smaller hospitals were the first to come into contact with patients with Newcrown Pneumonia before the major hospitals.
一些在这些医院工作的医生，敏锐地发现了这类病例的异常。
Some of the doctors who work in these hospitals are keenly aware of the unusual nature of these cases.
但在疫情确定伊始，各级疾控部门做的流行病学调查和访谈中，这些医生却没有被重视，这很可能是导致新冠肺炎早期诊断标准失误的重要原因。
But at the beginning of the outbreak, these doctors were not taken seriously in epidemiological investigations and interviews conducted by disease control departments at all levels, which may be an important reason for the failure of the early diagnosis criteria for new crown pneumonia.
“疾控部门应该重视我们这些一线临床医生，尤其在新型流行病出现时。
"CDC should focus on us as frontline clinicians, especially when new epidemics emerge.
”上述医院一位医生感叹。
"sighed a doctor at the hospital.
△武汉一家医院急诊室，吴靖摄最早一批病人：不一定发烧，不一定有华南海鲜市场接触史12月12日那天刘永值班，来门诊看病的人不如以往多，一位69岁的病人黄某，主动来门诊咨询。
Wuhan Hospital Emergency Room, Wu Jing the earliest patients: do not necessarily have a fever, do not necessarily have access to the South China seafood market December 12 duty, Liu Yong duty, less than before, a 69-year-old patient, Huang Mou, came to the outpatient consultation.
刘永研究过传染病学，黄某说“隔壁七八个员工突然发烧“，一下子让他开始警惕，建议病人做一个CT检查一下。
Liu Yong has studied infectious diseases, Huang said "seven or eight staff next door suddenly feverish," suddenly let him start alert, the patient was advised to have a CT examination.
黄某觉得自己的症状不严重，坚决不做——这符合很多人的想法，海鲜市场的部分商户，平时习惯在小诊所和小医院看病，不愿意花钱做自己觉得没必要的检查。
Huang felt that his symptoms are not serious, do not do - this is in line with many people's ideas, seafood market part of the business, usually used to small clinics and hospitals, do not want to spend money on their own unnecessary inspection.
既然不愿意检查，刘永建议去附近的武汉红十字医院或新华医院去看看。
Since unwilling to check, Liu Yong suggested to the nearby Wuhan Red Cross Hospital or Xinhua Hospital to see.
因为这两家医院有一年四季都开的发热门诊，防护设施比优抚医院高级。
Because these two hospitals have a year-round hot clinic, the protection facilities than caress hospitals advanced.
刘永感觉到这可能是一种传染性很强的疾病。
Liu Yong felt that this could be a very infectious disease.
他担心，优抚医院简易的门诊设施，完全抵挡不住烈性比较强的传染病。
He fears, caress the hospital simple outpatient facility, completely can not resist the more intense infectious disease.
刘永的警觉来自高中时的经历。
Liu Yong's vigilance comes from his high school experience.
当年他家乡的村民得过出血热，一开始被误认为是上呼吸道感染，按照普通感冒治疗，很多人去世，此后，他就非常关注传染病。
The villagers in his hometown suffered from haemorrhagic fever, initially mistaken for upper respiratory tract infections, and many died as a result of common cold treatments, after which he became very concerned about infectious diseases.
他不敢确定病毒百分之百来自华南海鲜市场，但结合黄某所言，至少意味着这类病例可能会在华南海鲜市场突然、集中爆发。
He was unsure that 100% of the virus came from the South China seafood market, but, combined with Huang, at least it could mean a sudden, concentrated outbreak in the South China seafood market.
第二天（12月13日）是一个星期五，一上班刘永就提醒同事，只要是华南海鲜市场来看病的人，每个人都免费提供一个普通外科口罩。
The next day (December 13) was a Friday, and Liu Yong reminded his colleagues as soon as they arrived at the South China Seafood Market that everyone would provide a general surgical mask free of charge.
同时他建议放射科和门诊科的所有医生全部戴口罩。
He also recommended that all doctors in the radiology and outpatient departments wear face masks.
12月16日，另一个病例出现了。
On 16 December, another case appeared.
刘永的同事接诊了一位总是来华南海鲜市场进货的湖北荆州市人。
Liu Yong's colleagues treated a man from Jingzhou, Hubei, who had always come to the South China seafood market.
这位男性患者70岁，已经发烧好几天，症状是干呕。
The male patient was 70 years old and had a fever for several days, with dry nausea.
当天，做了血常规检查，没有异常，当时判断是上呼吸道感染，同事担心是流感，开了专治流感的药物奥司他韦。
The day, a routine blood test, no abnormalities, was judged to be upper respiratory tract infection, colleagues worried about the flu, prescribed the special treatment of influenza oseltamivir.
他在优抚医院输液2天后，症状还是不见好转。
Two days after caressing the hospital for infusion, his symptoms did not improve.
医生建议他做一个CT，他觉得213元一个CT不值得，拒绝了，只做了一个79元的胸片，但胸片看不出有什么异常。
The doctor advised him to do a CT, he felt 213 yuan a CT is not worth it, refused, only made a 79-yuan chest film, but no abnormalities.
医生建议这位病人转院到武汉红十字医院。
The doctor advised the patient to be transferred to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
八点健闻后来联系到这位患者，他在武汉红十字医院被诊断为肺部感染，住了7天院，还是没见好转。
Eight JianWen later contacted the patient, he was diagnosed with a lung infection in Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, living in the hospital for seven days, has not improved.
12 月 24 日，他去了同济医院办理住院，后被确诊为新冠肺炎，1月23号武汉封城前治愈，已回到荆州家中。
On 24 December, he went to Tongji Hospital for hospitalization and was later confirmed to be suffering from Newly Coronary Pneumonia, which was cured in Wuhan on January 23 and returned to his home in Jingzhou.
武汉市卫健委2020年1月5日发布的关于不明原因肺炎情况通报中，根据当时开展的病例搜索和回顾性调查工作，最早发病的患者病例，和这位患者的发病时间接近。
On January 5, 2020, the Wuhan Health Commission issued a circular on unknown causes of pneumonia, according to the case-finding and retrospective investigation work carried out at that time, the earliest cases of the disease, and the patient's onset time is similar.
优抚医院的医生在讨论过后，确定了这种“不像普通流感”病人的检查方案，常规的血常规检查和胸片并检查不出异常，必须做CT。
After discussion, doctors at Youcai Hospital decided on a test plan for patients with "unlike ordinary flu." Routine blood tests and chest radiographs, and no abnormalities, must be computed tomography.
从这例患者开始，优抚医院的门诊医生们形成了共识：患者如果不做CT，医生就不给做诊断。
Starting with this patient, the outpatient doctors at Youcao Hospital formed a consensus that if the patient did not have a CT, the doctor would not give a diagnosis.
12月27日，第三个类似情况的患者出现。
On December 27, a third patient in a similar situation appeared.
他没有发热，只是咳嗽，他常年在华南海鲜市场采购货物，因为看到周围的许多商户发热，内心有些恐惧，自己主动来做体检。
He had no fever but coughed. He spent years shopping in the South China seafood market. Seeing that many of the merchants around him were feverish and frightened, he took the initiative to have a medical examination himself.
即便他没有发烧，优抚医院的医生按照刚讨论的原则给他做了CT，却发现这个当时不发热的病人，肺部有严重异常，诊断为“肺炎”，并建议他住院治疗，治疗两天后，12月29日，医生让他转诊到武汉金银潭医院。
Even if he did not have a fever, the doctor at the Youcao Hospital gave him a CT scan in accordance with the principles just discussed, but found that the patient, who was not feverish at the time, was diagnosed with pneumonia and advised to be hospitalized. Two days later, on 29 December, the doctor referred him to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
这个病人，成为武汉金银潭医院有了核酸检测后，首批被确诊的病人之一。
The patient, who became one of the first patients diagnosed after being tested for nucleic acid at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
接诊过这三例患者之后，优抚医院的医生感觉不简单，自己医院并不能解决。
After receiving these three cases, the doctor who caresses the hospital feels not simple, oneself hospital is unable to solve.
他们内部决定再遇到这种患者，第一时间建议转诊到更高级别的医院。
They decided internally to re-encounter such patients and immediately recommended referral to a higher level hospital.
与此同时，优抚医院附近的湖北省中西医结合医院医生张继先也发现了此类病例。
At the same time, Yucao Hospital near Hubei Province, the combination of Chinese and Western medicine doctors Zhang Jishan also found such cases.
据媒体报道，2019年12月26日，一对家住医院附近小区的老两口因发烧、咳嗽来中西医结合医院看病，拍出来的胸部CT片，呈现出与其他病毒性肺炎完全不同的改变。
According to media reports, on December 26, 2019, an elderly couple living in a small neighborhood near their home hospital came to the hospital with a fever and a cough and took a CT scan of their chest that was very different from that of other viral pneumonia.
张继先让老两口叫来他们的儿子也做下检查，没有任何症状的儿子，CT一照，肺上也有那种表现了。
Zhang Ji first let the old couple call their son also to have a check-up, no symptoms of the son, CT photo, lung has that performance.
第二天，她把这三个人的情况，和另外一个来自华南海鲜市场的类似病例，向医院作了汇报，医院立即上报给江汉区疾控中心。
The next day, she reported the condition of the three to the hospital, along with another similar case from the South China seafood market, which was immediately reported to the CDC.
张继先成为这次武汉新冠疫情中病例上报第一人。
Zhang Jixian became the first person to report the case of the new crown epidemic in Wuhan.
据这几位优抚医院最早接触新冠肺炎病人的临床医生观察：发热不是这种新型肺炎的必要表现；张继先发现，也不是所有的病例都有华南海鲜市场接触史。
Fever is not a necessary sign of the new pneumonia, according to the clinicians who first came into contact with patients in these hospitals. Zhang found that not all cases had a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
△武汉一家医院的输液室，吴靖摄1月上旬，“人传人”现象已经存在12月31日，武汉卫健委首次向公众发出“不明原因肺炎”疫情公告。
Wuhan Hospital infusion room, Wu Jing She early January, "person-to-person" phenomenon has existed on December 31, Wuhan Health Commission issued the first public "unknown causes of pneumonia" notice.
国家卫健委派了一批专家来到武汉，对武汉金银潭医院调研，随后制定了不明原因肺炎病例上报的三个标准，1、有华南海鲜市场接触史；2，发热； 3、CT，排除支原体、衣原体等其它感染。
State health appointed a group of experts to Wuhan, to study the Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, and then set three criteria for reporting cases of unknown causes of pneumonia, 1.
之前一天，武汉市卫健委医政医管部门发了一个通知，华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人，立即清查一周内接诊过的不明原因肺炎病人。
The day before, Wuhan health care administration issued a notice, the South China seafood market began to appear unknown causes of pneumonia patients, immediately identified within a week received unexplained pneumonia patients.
据刘永回忆，首批去金银潭的病人，应该有一部分是从离华南海鲜市场最近的这三家医院转入的，大多有华南海鲜市场接触史。
According to Liu, some of the first patients to go to the gold and silver pools should have been transferred from the three hospitals closest to the South China seafood market, most of which had a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
等转入到金银潭医院后，病情可能已经发展了一段时间，这可能会影响专家们的判断。
The disease may have developed for some time after it was transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, which may affect the experts' judgement.
与此同时，一位医生回忆，武汉卫健委向各大医院内部传达了几个信息：1，不是非典；2，不会人传人；3，不会死病人；4，不会让医护人员感染。
At the same time, a doctor recalled that Wuhan Wei Bodybuilding Commission to the major hospitals to convey several messages: 1, not SARS; 2, not human-to-human; 3, not dead patients; 4, will not let health-care personnel infected.
以至于12月31日封闭华南海鲜市场后，一些医院内部在议论：觉得有点太夸张，小题大做。
So much so that after the closure of the South China seafood market on December 31, some hospitals are saying: It's a bit of a exaggeration.
然而，后来发生的事情让他们很震惊。
However, they were shocked by what happened later.
2020年1月上旬，不明原因肺炎已经被命名为新型冠状病毒肺炎，而即使优抚医院的医生们遇到这类病例都建议转诊，但院内的部分医护人员和第一病区、第三病区住院的精神病患者，却出现了集中发热、干咳的症状。
In early January 2020, unknown pneumonia was named the new coronavirus pneumonia, and even though doctors at the caress hospital recommended referral in such cases, some hospital staff and mental patients hospitalized in the First and Third Districts developed symptoms of concentrated fever and dry cough.
住院的精神病患者并无直接的华南海鲜市场暴露史。
There was no direct history of exposure to the South China seafood market for hospitalized psychiatric patients.
医生会诊后，结合之前12月份在优抚医院初诊，转诊到其它医院后被确诊为新冠肺炎的病人都有华南海鲜市场的接触史的例子，认为医院离华南海鲜市场太近，一些患者家属在探望住院病人时，带进了病毒。
After the doctor's consultation, the patients diagnosed as New Crown Pneumonia who were referred to other hospitals after their initial consultation in Youcao Hospital in December all had contact history in the South China Seafood Market.
这意味着病毒“人传人”现象是存在的。
This means that the virus "human-to-human" phenomenon exists.
当时医院没有核酸检测试纸，不知道是不是冠状病毒。
At that time the hospital did not have nucleic acid test paper, do not know whether coronavirus.
但按照之前专家们给出的疑似病例的三个诊断标准，这类集中爆发的发热病人，大部分并无华南海鲜市场接触史，因此，他们当时并未按不明原因肺炎上报这些病例。
But according to the three diagnostic criteria previously given by experts for suspected cases, most of these concentrated outbreaks did not have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market, so they did not report these cases of unexplained pneumonia at the time.
现在回头看，有关疑似病例上报的上述三个标准并不合理，很多病人没有华南市场接触史，也有很多病人门诊时没有发热。
In retrospect, the above three criteria for reporting suspected cases are not reasonable, with many patients without a history of exposure to the South China market and many without fever during outpatient visits.
据钟南山院士团队的最新研究论文，对全国31个省市552家医院的1099名新冠肺炎确诊患者的研究结果表明，就诊时出现发热症状的患者的比例为43.8％，但在住院后发生发热的比例为87.9％，发生严重肺炎的比例为15.7％。
A study of 1,099 patients diagnosed with pneumonia in 552 hospitals in 31 provinces and municipalities showed that 43.8 percent had fever symptoms, but 87.9 percent developed fever after hospitalization and 15.7 percent developed severe pneumonia, according to the latest research paper by the Zhong Nan Shan Academician Team.
1月初，优抚医院的一个科室主任被确诊为新冠肺炎。
In early January, the director of a department at Youcao Hospital was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
他去武汉市中心医院住院治疗，主动要求隔离治疗，最后情况严重转去金银潭医院。
He was hospitalized at Wuhan Central Hospital and voluntarily requested isolation treatment, which culminated in a serious transfer to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
同一时期，因“在互联网上发布不实言论”，一批医护人员被武汉市公安局警示和通报，这一消息传到了优抚医院的冯云（化名）主任耳里。
During the same period, a group of medical personnel were alerted and informed by Wuhan Public Security Bureau for "publishing false statements on the Internet," which was relayed to Feng Yun (alias) director of Youcao Hospital.
几件事情集合到一起，冯云感到不对劲，于是去发热门诊、检验科和放射科各个科室搜集资料，和院领导商议后，打算邀请另一个医院的主任来汇总、分析这些病例。
Feng Yun felt something was amiss, so he went to the fever clinic, the examination department and the radiology department to collect the data. After consulting with the hospital leadership, he decided to invite the director of another hospital to compile and analyze the cases.
1月17日上午，另一个医院的主任会诊后，得出判断，是病毒性肺炎，不是细菌性肺炎。
On the morning of 17 January, the director of another hospital met and concluded that it was viral pneumonia, not bacterial pneumonia.
这也符合当初刘永的判断：“细菌性肺炎短期内不可能传播那么快，应该是病毒性肺炎。
This is in line with Liu Yong's judgment: "Bacterial pneumonia is unlikely to spread that fast in the short term, it should be viral pneumonia.
”1月17日那天正是小年，本来医院内部要办个春节联欢会，临时决定把下午的活动取消，开始建隔离病房。
January 17 is a small year, the original hospital to hold a Spring Festival party, the temporary decision to cancel the afternoon activities, began to build isolation rooms.
上报机制不畅，钟南山宣布“人传人“已是10天后虽然因为住院患者的病例不符合疾控中心最初制定的三个标准，没有按不明原因肺炎上报，但医院依旧在1月10号左右将这种医院医护人员和病人集中发热的情况告诉给了上级疾控部门。
Despite the fact that cases of hospitalized patients did not meet the three criteria originally set by the CDC and were not reported as pneumonia on an unspecified basis, the hospital told the CDC about January 10 about the concentration of fever among hospital staff and patients.
据一位优抚医院医生回忆，当时上级疾控部门没有马上来医院进行调研，而是反问他们：“你们没有接触过华南海鲜市场，为什么有这个病？”优抚医院将最初内科医生接诊的三个病例反馈给上级疾控部门，后者既不肯定也不否定。
The CDC did not come to the hospital immediately to conduct research, but instead asked them, "Why did you not come into contact with the South China Seafood Market," recalled a doctor at Youcao Hospital, who reported the three cases initially treated by a physician to the disease control department at a higher level, which was neither positive nor negative.
1月12日，疾控部门开始给各大医院下发文件和表格，要求医院上报门诊发热情况。
On January 12, the CDC began issuing documents and forms to hospitals asking them to report outpatient fever.
起初要求每天下午四点前上报，后来逐渐改成晚上8—10点之间上报。
At first, they were required to report by four in the afternoon, then gradually by 8 to 10 pm.
1月17日，上报新冠肺炎疑似病例的标准放宽，并不要求一定要有华南海鲜市场接触史。
On January 17, the criteria for reporting suspected cases of pneumonia were relaxed without requiring a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
优抚医院开始向疾控部门上报大量的病例，一下子上报了 30个发热病人。
Youcao Hospital began to report a large number of cases to the disease control department, a sudden report of 30 febrile patients.
1月18日，国家卫健委高级专家组成员再次来武汉调研，这次的调研对象包括中南医院、人民医院等四大医院的专家，调研中，四大医院报告了医护人员的感染情况，并再次提出了降低疑似病例诊断标准的要求。
On January 18, senior members of the National Fitness and Health Commission visited Wuhan again, this time to study four major hospitals, including Zhongnan Hospital and People's Hospital.
1月18号，疾控部门给医院发放的上报表格中增加了医护人员的感染病例一项。
On January 18, the CDC issued a report form to hospitals that included a list of cases of infection among health-care workers.
1月20日，国务院高级别专家组组长钟南山，指出新冠病毒“人传人”。
January 20, the State Council high-level expert group leader Zhong Nan Shan, pointed out the new crown virus "person-to-person."
此时，距离优抚医院发现医护人员和住院患者感染的情况，已经过去了10天。
At this point, 10 days have passed since the hospital was able to detect infection among medical staff and hospitalized patients.
1月20日之后，武汉当地的确诊病例和疑似病例急剧上涨，确诊人数由一个月前宣布的41例，涨至2月10日近两万例。
Since January 20, Wuhan has seen a sharp rise in confirmed and suspected cases, from 41 cases announced a month ago to nearly 20,000 on February 10.
疫情因为人传人也扩展到其它地区，全国确诊人数已超4万。
The epidemic has spread from person to person to other areas, with more than 40,000 people diagnosed nationwide.
优抚医院医生们感到庆幸的是，现在只有16名医务人员感染，在武汉各大医院的医务人员感染情况中，算相对较轻的。
Doctors at Youcai Hospital are grateful that only 16 medical staff are now infected, which is relatively low in Wuhan major hospitals.
而12月中旬就开始做好防护措施四名放射科医生，没有一人被感染。
Four radiologists began taking protective measures in mid-December, and none of them was infected.
此外，虽然还有86个确诊和疑似病人转不出去，因为有相当一部分是精神病人，没有医院愿意接收。
In addition, while 86 confirmed and suspected patients could not be transferred, a significant proportion were mentally ill and no hospitals were willing to accept them.
但这部分病人，很早就被安置在医院的一所新建的大楼隔离。
But this part of the patient, was very early placed in the hospital in a new building isolation.
2月7日，优抚医院的相关医生，被疾控部门约谈。
Feb. 7, the relevant doctor of Youcao Hospital, was interviewed by the CDC.
疾控部门认为他们在12月底、1月初时，漏报少报病例。
The CDC said they missed out on underreporting in late December and early January.
这位医生反对：“卫健委要求同时具备三个条件才能上报，当时确实不符合这三个条件。
The doctor objected: "The Wei BodyCare Commission required three conditions to be reported at the same time, and indeed did not meet these three conditions.
”“如果当时重视我们这些疫情集中区的小医院，相信我们临床医生的报告和判断，也许情况不会发展到现在这样。
"If we had paid attention to our small hospitals in concentrated areas and believed in the reports and judgments of our clinicians, we might not have been where we are now.
”一位医生感叹。
"sighed a doctor.
吴靖|撰稿微信号：1136352312王晨|统筹、撰稿微信号：2174127王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: 1136352312; Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated, contributing microsignals: Wang Jiriku & # 124; At & # 124; Blame microsignals: wangjilu006; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
失去的机会，新冠疫情早期被忽视的小医院病例。
A lost opportunity for the early neglect of the New Crown in small hospital cases.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "失去的机会，新冠疫情早期被忽视的小医院病例";。
var msg _ title = & quot; missed opportunity; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var msg_desc = "在钟南山公布10天前，已出现第一批人传人病例";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
