瑞德西韦，距离真的成为新冠特效药还有多远？。
Rhetsevius, how far is it from becoming the new crown magic drug?
特约作者张小乙。
Invited author Zhang Xiaoyi.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
美国一个新冠肺炎患者使用瑞德西韦治愈的消息发布后，流传出很多该药有“奇效”的消息，但都仅仅是“美好的愿望”。
News of a cure in the United States of Rhetsevir following the release of a New Crown Pneumonia patient has spread word that the drug has "miraculous effects," but only "good wishes."
新冠肺炎确诊、疑似、死亡人数都在不断上升，人们太需要看到希望了。
With the number of confirmed, suspected, and dead cases of New Crown Pneumonia rising, there is a great need for hope.
瑞德西韦的前一代药物，对治疗猫冠状病毒引起的猫传腹有效。
Rhetsevier's previous generation of drugs was effective in treating the cat coronavirus-induced abdominal transmission.
于是，甚至有人希望代购这一款猫药来给新冠肺炎患者治病。
As a result, some people even hope to buy this cat medicine to treat patients with new crown pneumonia.
孤例不能说明问题。
Solitary cases do not speak for themselves.
两项瑞德西韦针对新冠肺炎患者的临床试验正在进行中，是不是有效，要试验结束时才知道。
Two clinical trials of Rhetsevir in patients with new crown pneumonia are underway, and it is not known whether they are effective until the end of the trial.
在特效药出炉之前，新冠肺炎患者最大的希望还是自身的免疫力。
Until specific drugs are available, the best hope for new-crown pneumonia patients is their immunity.
这个周末，关于瑞德西韦对新冠肺炎患者产生“奇效”的消息再次在社交媒体引起关注。
This weekend, news of Rhetsevir's "miracle" effect on patients with Newcastle Pneumonia caught the attention of social media once again.
2月8日，一位自称入住武汉金银潭医院的患者发出一个消息：“美国那个新药瑞德西韦真的牛，看着同病房的重症吃了一天，肉眼可见的好转，现在精神地坐着跟我聊天”，引起很多转发和评论。
On February 8, a patient who claimed to be living in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital sent a message: "The new drug Rhetsevir, who has been watching his patients suffer from severe eating in the same ward for a day, is now sitting and chatting with me spiritually.
△ 图片来源：微博截图这样的信息看上去充满希望，但很可惜，跟之前的种种不明来源的传言——“17个小时就从ICU状态恢复了96%的肺功能”“ 随机盲选，700多例全部见效”一样，更大的可能只是美好的愿望。
2007-3-1 15: 48 "After 17 hours, 96 percent of lung function has been restored from ICU status," "Random Blind Voting, more than 700 cases all working," but unfortunately, just as promising.
首先，瑞德西韦是注射剂，不是“吃”的，其次，双盲试验中，医生和患者都不可能知道用出去的是安慰剂还是真的药物。
First, Rhetsevir is an injection, not an "eater," and second, in double-blind trials, neither doctors nor patients can know whether to use a placebo or a real drug.
自从1月31日权威医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）在线发表了一篇论文，介绍还未上市的药物瑞德西韦在美国首例确诊新冠肺炎的患者治疗中发挥作用以来，已经有很多这样的传言。
Since January 31, when the leading medical journal NEJM published an online paper on the role of the unmarketable drug Rhetsevir in the treatment of the first confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia in the United States, there have been many such rumors.
新冠肺炎确诊、疑似、死亡人数都在不断上升，人们太需要看到希望了。
With the number of confirmed, suspected, and dead cases of New Crown Pneumonia rising, there is a great need for hope.
而瑞德西韦（Remdesivir），甚至在民间被音译为“人民的希望”。
And Remdesivir, even among the people, is transliterated as "the hope of the people."
但是，到目前为止，还只有美国的一个成功案例，孤例不能说明问题。
So far, however, there has been only one successful case in the United States, and that alone does not speak for itself.
中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院院长王辰院士在2月5日的临床试验启动会上表示，各界对这一试验有期望，但有无效果，还需要等待严格的科学试验结果。
At the start of the clinical trial on February 5, Vice President of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and Dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, Wang Chen, said there was hope for the trial, but its effectiveness would depend on rigorous scientific tests.
那么，瑞德西韦能成为特效药吗？距离具体真正变成“人民的希望”还有多远？△ 图片来源：yestone什么样的临床试验结果算是成功？2月9日，在美国临床试验数据库官网输入关键词“Remdesivir”检索，显示有3项临床研究正在开展：一个试验为针对轻/中症新冠肺炎患者的III期RCT试验（随机对照试验），预计完成时间为4月27日；一个针对重症新冠肺炎患者的III期RCT试验，预计完成时间为5月1日。
So how far is Rhetsevir going to be a miracle drug? What kind of clinical trials have turned out to be successful? On Feb. 9, the key word Remdesivivir was entered into the US Clinical Trials Database Office.On February 9, three clinical studies were conducted: a trial with RCT III (randomized controlled trial) for patients with severe coronary pneumonia, expected to be completed on May 1.
另外一个试验为美国研究人员开展的瑞德西韦针对埃博拉病毒的研究，2018年10月25日开始，预期完成时间为2023年11月30日。
Another trial, conducted for US researchers on the Ebola virus, began on 25 October 2018 and is expected to be completed by 30 November 2023.
据美国临床试验数据库中刊载的消息，这两项研究将纳入轻、中症患者308例，重症患者452例，均为随机、双盲、安慰剂对照、多中心研究。
Both studies will include 308 cases of mild and moderate illness and 452 cases of severe illness, all randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter studies, according to the US clinical trial database.
据新华社报道，在针对重症新冠肺炎患者的临床试验中，不像1：1的传统分组（一组治疗用药；一组对照组），这次分组为2：1，这意味着参加研究有67%的机会用上这个药。
In clinical trials of patients with severe new crown pneumonia, the subgroup was 2: 1, unlike the traditional group of 1: 1 (one group of therapeutics and one control group), meaning that 67 per cent of participants in the study had a chance to use the drug.
两项研究临床试验成功的标准不同。
The success criteria for clinical trials differ in both studies.
在评估轻/中度患者的临床研究中，主要看规定的时间窗（28天）内患者病情的缓解，主要结果指标为：发热：腋温≤36.6°C，或口温≤37.2 °C，或肛温或耳温≤37.8°C呼吸频率：≤24次/分（室内空气下）血氧饱和度：>94%（室内空气下）咳嗽：轻度或无（咳嗽程度按“重度/中度/轻度/无”分级）在评估重症患者临床效果的试验中，主要看规定的时间窗（28天）内，患者病情的临床评估等级是否下降两级，6级临床评估如下：6、死亡5、重症监护病房，需要ECMO（人工膜肺）或IMV（有创机械通气）；4、重症监护病房/住院治疗，需要NIV（无创机械通气） / HFNC治疗（高流量鼻导管）；3、住院，需要补充氧气（但不需要NIV / HFNC）；2、住院治疗，不需要补充氧气；1、出院。
In clinical studies evaluating mild / moderate patients, the main outcome indicators were: fever: armpit ≤ 36.6 ° C or HFNC therapy (high flow nasal catheter); moderate or moderate acute care unit requiring oxygen supplementation (but not NIV / HFNC); 2. Hospital care, no oxygen supplementation; 1.
在上述规定的时间窗（28天）内，使用瑞德西韦的轻/中症患者在发热、血氧饱和度方面得到缓解的情况，或者重症患者临床评估下降2级的情况，和两组使用安慰剂的患者相比，有明显的统计学差异，就会被认为试验成功。
Within the prescribed window of time (28 days), mild / moderate patients using Rhetsevir were considered successful if they had a reduction in fever, blood oxygen saturation, or a 2-degree decrease in the clinical assessment of a severely ill patient, compared with two groups of patients using placebo.
△ 图片来源：yestone瑞德西韦为什么会被视为“特效药”？瑞德西韦之所以被寄予厚望，除了有一个成功治疗案例，还因为它已经经过了漫长而复杂的历程，许多试验研究其活性和安全性。
2007-9-24 16: 48 Why is Rhetsevir regarded as a "miracle drug" Rhetsevius has high hopes not only because of a successful treatment case, but also because it has gone through a long and complicated process, with many trials looking for its activity and safety.
身居国外的药物研究者赵勇（化名）最近收到一个特殊的需求，一位武汉的女士希望他代购一种代号为GS-441524的猫药，但不是给猫用，而是给她家里人治病。
Zhao Yong (not his real name), a drug researcher living abroad, recently received a special request from a Wuhan woman who wanted him to buy a cat medicine code-named GS-441524, not for cats but for her family.
她的父亲因为感染新冠肺炎已经去世，姑姑和爷爷也感染了，她希望这一款药能挽救他们的生命。
Her father had died of pneumonia and her aunts and grandfathers had been infected, and she hoped the drug would save their lives.
GS-441524还没有批准上市，没有商品名，但是丝毫不影响这个晦涩的科学术语在养猫界的名气，它被誉为治疗猫传染性腹膜炎（FelineInfectious Peritonitis，FIP，下称猫传腹）神药，治愈率90%以上。
The GS-441524, which has not yet been approved for sale, has no trade name, but it does not in any way affect the reputation of the obscure scientific term in cat ownership, which has been hailed as a miracle drug for treating infectious peritonitis in cats, with a cure rate of more than 90%.
但这位女士为什么会想到把猫药用在人身上呢？猫传腹是猫携带的猫冠状病毒发生变异而引起的疾病，“都是冠状病毒感染，作用机理一样。
But why would the woman have thought of using cats as medicine in humans? Cat-to-abdomen is a disease caused by the mutation of the cat-borne coronavirus, "all of which are coronavirus infections.
”赵勇说。
"said Zhao Yong.
2012年，吉利德发表了关键化合物GS-441524的相关报道，该化合物显示了广泛的抗病毒活性，针对甲型流感、人流感以及SARS-CoV等均有效果。
In 2012, Geely published reports on the key compound GS-441524, which showed a wide range of antiviral activity and was effective against influenza A, human influenza and SARS-CoV.
一些兽医科学家发现GS-441524对治疗猫传腹非常有效。
Some veterinary scientists have found the GS-441524 to be very effective in treating cat abdominals.
猫传腹，是一种发生于猫的致命异常免疫反应，由猫携带的猫冠状病毒发生变异而引起。
Cat-to-abdomen is a fatal abnormal immune response in cats, caused by the cat-borne coronavirus mutation.
这种疾病目前仍为绝症，发病后死亡时间不定，但极少活过一年时间。
The disease is still terminal and the time of death following its onset varies, but rarely for more than a year.
传统上，只能接受以缓解痛苦为主要目的的治疗。
Traditionally, treatment aimed primarily at alleviating suffering has been accepted.
国内外一些养猫论坛上有大量关于GS-441524的介绍。
At home and abroad, there are a lot of presentations on GS-441524.
八点健闻采访了一个猫主人，她的猫曾患有猫传腹因此比较关注GS-441524的消息，也在发表过很多GS-441524的介绍资料， “目前国内外猫用的比较多，效果很好。
Eight Jiangnan interviewed a cat owner, her cat had a cat belly so more attention to the GS-441524 news, also published a lot of GS-441524 profiles, "At present, domestic and foreign cats use more, the effect is very good.
”而瑞德西韦（代号GS-5734）正是由GS-441524磷酸化而来的药物，“简直是艺术品一样的分子。
Rhettigrew, code-named GS-5734, was a drug that had been phosphorylated by GS-441524, "an art-like molecule."
相对于克力芝等药物，起效浓度低，毒副作用少,是目前情况下最推荐的一款小分子药物。
Compared with Kaletra and other drugs, low potency concentration and few side effects, is the most recommended small molecule drug in the present situation.
随着研发人员不断修饰，其活性越来越高，安全性也越来越好。
As R & D personnel continue to be modified, their activities become more and more active and safety is better.
”赵勇激动地对八点健闻说。
"Zhao Yong said excitedly to eight JianWen.
埃博拉、MERS、SARS疾病的出现使得人们对抑制RNA病毒复制的药物进行深入研究，瑞德西韦被被认为是针对新兴RNA病毒最有潜力的药物之一，研究人员认为瑞德西韦作为广谱抗病毒药物的进一步开发，可用于治疗具有高死亡率和重大爆发潜力的病毒感染。
The advent of Ebola, MERS, and SARS has led to an in-depth study of drugs that inhibit the replication of RNA viruses. Rhetsevir is considered one of the most promising drugs for the emerging RNA virus, and researchers believe that Rhetsevir, as a further development of broad-spectrum antiviral drugs, could be used to treat viral infections with high mortality and potential for major outbreaks.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，一些前期研究显示瑞得西韦可能是有潜力的抗新型冠状病毒药物之一。
In the wake of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, some early studies suggest that Rexicavir may be one of the potential new coronavirus drugs.
1 月 27 日Science在线刊文称，目前研究尚不能确认抗艾滋药物的有效性，最有潜力的药物可能是瑞德西韦。
The effectiveness of anti-AIDS drugs cannot be confirmed by current research, and the most promising drug is likely to be Rhetsevir, according to the online journal Science on January 27.
2月4日，中科院武汉病毒研究所发布消息称，他们的研究表明，瑞德西韦在细胞水平上能有效抑制2019-nCoV的感染。
On February 4, Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences announced that their research showed that Rhetsevir could effectively inhibit 2019-nCoV infection at the cellular level.
武汉病毒研究所还为此申请了专利，引起了一番争议。
Wuhan virus research institute also applied for a patent for this cause has caused some controversy.
一种分析认为，武汉病毒所的专利注册，是瑞德西韦在治疗新冠肺炎病毒方面的用途，从利益的角度来看，如果获批，能够避免专利持有者携专利肆意抬价。
One analysis suggests that the patent registration of Wuhan Virus Institute is the use of Rhetsevir in the treatment of the new crown pneumonia virus, which, if approved, would prevent patent holders from carrying patents at will.
但专利获批可能没有那么容易，从2011年以来，吉利德至少申请或被授予了100余件与瑞德西韦相关的专利。
But patentability may not be easy, and Geely has applied for or been granted at least 100 Rhettigrew-related patents since 2011.
据吉利德官方发布的消息，2016年，针对瑞德西韦在冠状病毒上的应用，吉利德在中国以及全球申请了更多的专利。
In 2016, Geely filed more patents in China and around the world for the coronavirus, according to Geely's official report.
2月5日，吉利德全球CEO Daniel O’Day在一场公司会议中回应专利争议时说：患者第一，公司的核心关注在于病人，不希望卷入专利纠纷。
Patients first, the company's core concern is the patient and does not want to get involved in patent disputes, Geely Global CEO Daniel O'Day said in a company meeting on Feb. 5 in response to a patent dispute.
据2月8日吉利德官方发布的消息，公司已与中国卫生部门达成了协议，无偿提供研究所需的药物，并为研究的设计和开展提供支持。
The company has reached an agreement with China's health ministry to provide drugs for the research free of charge and to support the design and implementation of the research, according to official news release on Feb. 8.
临床试验与新冠疫情哪个先结束？此刻，疫情仍在蔓延。
Which is the end of clinical trials and the new crown? At the moment, the epidemic is still spreading.
截至2月9日24时，全国（除港澳台外）累计报告报告确诊病例40171例，治愈出院3281例，死亡908例，现有疑似病例23589例。
As of 2400 hours February 9, a cumulative total of 40,171 confirmed cases had been reported nationwide (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan), 3,281 cases had been cured and 908 cases had died, with 23,589 suspected cases.
（信息来自国家卫生健康委员会官方网站）但是中日友好医院牵头的评估瑞德西韦疗效的临床试验结束时间分别为4月27日和5月1日。
(Information from the official website of the National Board of Health) But the clinical trials led by the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital to assess Rhetsevir's efficacy ended on April 27 and May 1, respectively.
除非在试验中出现极端情况，例如大面积死亡危险，或者大面积明显好转，从而提前揭盲，否则，结果要到两个多月后才会揭晓。
The results will not be known for more than two months unless extreme conditions, such as a large risk of death, or large areas of significant improvement occur in advance of exposure.
在三期临床结束之前，临床上能通过同情用药渠道给患者药物吗？同情用药，正是美国那个案例中将瑞德西韦应用在患者身上所采取的流程。
Is it possible to give medication to patients through sympathetic medication before the end of the third phase? Sympathy is the process used to apply Rhetsevir to patients in the United States case.
“应该不会。
"It shouldn't be.
”一位三甲医院ICU医生告诉八点健闻。
A doctor at Sanjia Hospital told Eight Health News.
对于临床上抗病毒治疗，按照卫生健康委出台的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第五版)》，推荐呼吸支持加上抗病毒治疗等。
For clinical antiviral treatment, respiratory support plus antiviral treatment are recommended in accordance with the CHH's "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 5)."
他认为，在特效药的临床价值未被验证之前，做好常规治疗措施，也能取得好的治疗效果的。
He believes that until the clinical value of specific drugs has been proven, good results can be achieved with conventional treatment measures.
根据FDA官方网站的规定，同情用药具有一定的应用条件：患者病情危急以至于影响生命；没有相当的或更好的替代疗法；无法将患者纳入临床试验；患者得到的利益大于潜在风险；同情用药不影响正在开展的临床试验。
According to the FDA's official website, compassionate medication has certain application conditions: patients are so critical that they affect their lives; there is no equivalent or better alternative therapy; patients cannot be included in clinical trials; patients receive more benefits than potential risks; and compassionate medication does not affect ongoing clinical trials.
浙江大学生命科学院教授王立铭撰文说，国内情况与其有很大的不同。
'There is a big difference between China and Zhejiang University, 'wrote Wang Liming, a professor at the School of Life Sciences.
“一是在国内，新冠病毒肺炎的患者数量庞大，设计和完成一个人体临床试验并不是特别困难的事情；二是患者绝大多数是轻症患者，在治疗过程中依靠传统的支持治疗和抗病毒治疗就足以顺利痊愈，也不需要动用未知风险很大的新治疗方法。
"One is the large number of patients with Newcomovirus pneumonia at home. Designing and completing a clinical trial in humans is not particularly difficult. The second is that the vast majority of patients are mild patients, and reliance on traditional supportive and antiviral treatment during the treatment process is sufficient for a smooth recovery without the need for new treatments with unknown risks."
”这也意味着，患者想要用到瑞德西韦，唯一的渠道是被纳入临床试验中。
This also means that patients want to use Rhetsevir and that the only way to do so is through inclusion in clinical trials.
在特效药出炉之前，新冠肺炎患者最大的希望还是自身的免疫力。
Until specific drugs are available, the best hope for new-crown pneumonia patients is their immunity.
华山医院感染科主任、上海医疗救治专家组组长张文宏在接受采访时说，“最有效的药物，是人的免疫力。
"The most effective drug is people's immunity," Zhang Wenhong, director of infection department at Huashan Hospital and head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group, said in an interview.
我们医生在做什么？就是帮病人挺过两个礼拜，挺过去，他自身的抗体就起来了，有了强大的力量。
What are we doctors doing? To help the patient through the last two weeks, his own antibodies are up and powerful.
”Play张小乙|撰稿王吉陆|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing for Wang Jilu & # 44; & # 45; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
瑞德西韦，距离真的成为新冠特效药还有多远？。
Rhetsevius, how far is it from becoming the new crown magic drug?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "瑞德西韦，距离真的成为新冠特效药还有多远？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Rhettiver, how far is it from becoming a new crown jewel?;
var msg_desc = "特效药出炉之前，最有效的药物是人的免疫力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the most effective drug was human immunity before the specific drug came out.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
