科普、辟谣……抗疫战场上，互联网医疗还能做什么。
Science, rumor-fighting... what else can Internet medicine do on the battlefield of the plague.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
The following article comes from 八点健闻Plus。
The following article comes from eight good news Plus.
Author 关其。
Author is concerned.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
面对突发的疫情，互联网医疗能做的还有很多。
In the face of a sudden epidemic, Internet medicine can do a lot more.
17年前的SARS疫情中，吸烟、吃碘盐能防“非典”等谣言，一度给全国人民带来很大困扰。
Seventeen years ago, SARS epidemic, smoking, eating iodized salt can prevent "SARS" and other rumors, once brought great trouble to the nation.
17年后，当新冠病毒来袭，迅速建立的信息通道，让在家中躲避疫情的人们可以及时接触到可靠的疫情信息，避免被谣言误导。
Seventeen years later, when the new crown virus struck, the rapidly established information gateway gave people who had fled the outbreak access to reliable information in time to avoid being misled by rumours.
以防止大蒜杀菌、熏醋杀毒、板蓝根预防等“迷惑行为”卷土重来。
To prevent garlic sterilization, anti-virus fumigation, Banlangen prevention and other "confused behavior" re-emergence.
对比SARS与新冠病毒这两场时隔17年的疫情，除去SARS遗留下的应对经验、防护机制以及不断发展的医疗科研与诊疗能力，这次的“抗疫”战争中还增加了一支新的力量——互联网。
By comparing the 17-year gap between SARS and the New Crown Virus, the fight against SARS added a new force - the Internet - to the fight against SARS, despite the fact that SARS left us with coping experiences, protection mechanisms, and developing medical research and treatment capabilities.
据国家卫健委消息，截至2月7日24时，31个省（自治区、直辖市）和新疆生产建设兵团累计报告，现有确诊病例31774例（其中重症病例6101例），累计治愈出院2050例，累计死亡722例，累计报告确诊病例34546例（黑龙江省核减14例），现有疑似病例27657例。
As of 2400 hours February 7, 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps had cumulatively reported 31,774 confirmed cases, including 6,101 serious cases, a cumulative total of 2050 hospital discharges, 722 cumulative deaths and 34,546 confirmed cases (14 nuclear reductions in Heilongjiang Province), with 27,657 suspected cases.
累计追踪到密切接触者345498人，尚在医学观察的密切接触者189660人。
A cumulative total of 345,498 contacts were traced, with 18,9660 close contacts still under medical observation.
与此同时，为了防止疫情进一步大规模扩散，哈尔滨、南京、宁波、福州、临沂、杭州等多个城市已经宣布对所有小区村屯单位实施封闭管理；原则上每家每两天1人外出采购生活物资。
At the same time, in order to prevent further large-scale spread of the epidemic, a number of cities, including Harbin, Nanjing, Ningbo, Fuzhou, Linyi, Hangzhou, have declared closed management of all small village and village units; in principle, one person per household every two days will go out to purchase household goods.
当隔离成为人们防控疫情的最佳手段，当人们不得不停止一切不必要的外出和聚会，互联网已经成为广大居民的底层需求。
When isolation becomes the best way to control the epidemic, when people have to stop all unnecessary travel and gatherings, the Internet has become the basic needs of the general population.
△图片来自 yestone腾讯医疗相关负责人表示，面对突发的疫情，互联网，尤其是互联网医疗有着更大的价值：首先可以快速普及疫情信息，加速全社会每个个体的应对速度，在短时间内呼吁全社会每个人的防护动员和参与；其次可以快速普及科学防护知识，提升全民防护能力；再者就是可以提供高效的自诊自查及在线问诊服务，有效分流非新冠肺炎患者，缓解线下医院压力。
The Internet, especially Internet health care, is of greater value in the face of sudden outbreaks: first, it can quickly popularize epidemic information, accelerate the response rate of every individual in society, and appeal to everyone's protection mobilization and participation in a short time.
让信息及时传递，让谣言无所遁形家住哈尔滨市松北区的李明（化名）刚刚收到社区送来的消毒酒精，瓶子上还贴着用高浓度酒精消毒的安全注意事项。
Li Ming (not his real name), who lives in Songbei District, Harbin, has just received disinfectant alcohol from the community, along with safety tips for disinfecting it with a high concentration of alcohol.
虽然已经宅在家里很多天了，但是李明并没有因此感到恐慌。
Although he had been in his house for many days, Li Ming did not panic.
“非典的时候，我还在上小学。
"I was still in primary school when SARS was here.
记忆里那时候学校都用醋消毒，满屋子醋味。
Back then, the school used vinegar to disinfect the house with vinegar.
直到长大我才明白，原来用醋消毒是根本没用的。
It was not until I grew up that I realized that it was useless to sterilize with vinegar.
”拿到消毒酒精后，李明感慨，现在人们很容易获得权威的信息，谣言很快就会被辟谣的。
After getting the disinfectant alcohol, Li lamented that it was now easy to get authoritative information and rumors would soon be refuted.
手机里，一些权威的微信公众号和 App会及时发布很多疫情信息，社区的工作人员每天会通过业主微信群发布每个楼层消毒的照片，随时给大家同步各种防疫信息。
In the mobile phone, some authoritative micro-public and App will release a lot of epidemic information, community workers through the owners micro-groups issued daily disinfection photos of each floor, ready to synchronize the various epidemic prevention information.
电视里，新闻每天都会通报最新的疫情进展，专家也会出来给大家讲解如何防疫。
Television, the news will be daily updates on the progress of the epidemic, experts will also come out to explain how to vaccination.
“前几天，网上流传双黄连可以预防新冠病毒，我还没出门去买，就已经有专家在网上辟谣了。
"A few days ago, online circulation Shuanghuanglian can prevent the new crown virus, I have not gone out to buy, there have been experts in the Internet rumor.
”李明说到。
"said Li Ming.
在汹涌的疫情下，碎片化的信息来源导致着恐慌的情绪，加剧恐慌的谣言或是伪科学的治疗方式都在掣肘这场全民阻击战。
Fragmented sources of information lead to panic in a raging epidemic, and rumors of panic or pseudo-scientific treatments are holding back the national fight.
除了紧缺医疗物资支持，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控进展至今，主战场在基层，而基层重点人群的筛查、疫情的防控宣教尤为迫切。
In addition to the shortage of medical supplies support, the new coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control progress so far, the main battlefield at the grass-roots level, and the grass-roots key population screening, disease prevention and education is particularly urgent.
1月26日，国家卫健委发布《关于加强基层医疗卫生机构新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》。
On January 26, the National Health Commission issued the Notice on Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Infected by the New Coronavirus Infection in Primary Health Care Institutions.
通知指出，基层医疗卫生机构要充分运用信息技术手段进行疫情防控，可通过电话、智能语音提醒等手段，向辖区居民精准、及时推送疫情防控和健康教育信息。
The circular pointed out that primary health-care institutions should make full use of information technology to prevent and control the disease, and could provide accurate and timely information on disease prevention and control and health education to residents of their districts through telephone and intelligent voice alerts.
在协助政府进行肺炎疫情宣教方面，互联网医疗平台也在积极发挥作用。
The Internet Medical Platform is also playing an active role in assisting the Government in educating the Government about the pneumonia epidemic.
腾讯医典、微医、好大夫等垂直医疗平台，纷纷设立科普栏目，扫除大众知识盲区，帮助人们更为理性客观地看待新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情。
Tencent medical code, micro-medicine, good doctors and other vertical medical platforms, set up popular science columns, wipe out the mass knowledge blind areas, help people more rational and objective view of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
以腾讯为例，疫情爆发之初，微信“支付”页就面向全国用户上线了“医疗健康”服务，通过这个入口可以打开“腾讯健康”小程序，进入“全国新型肺炎疫情动态”专区。
Take Tencent, for example, at the start of the outbreak, when the Weixin "payment" page put its "health" services online for users across the country, opening Tencent Health's little program into the "New Dynamics of Pneumonia" section.
专区里既包括权威医学科普知识，也提供了来自国家卫健委的权威24小时实时疫情统计、发热门诊等功能。
The district includes authoritative medical science knowledge, but also provides authoritative 24-hour real-time epidemic statistics, fever clinic and other functions from the National Health Commission.
△微信支付页面医疗健康版块可进入“全国新型肺炎疫情动态”专区。
Micromail Payment Page Medical Health Section can enter the "New Pneumonia Dynamics" section of China.
其中，科普内容是在中国疾病预防控制中心、国家卫生健康委中国人口宣传教育中心官方渠道的科普内容支持下，由腾讯医典联动百位专家，以图文、视频、直播等多种方式制作。
Among them, the popular science content is supported by the official channels of China Population Publicity and Education Center of the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the State Council for Health and Hygiene.
据了解，腾讯医典在“全国新型肺炎科普实时查”专区也将相关知识体系化划分为为预防指南、检查诊断、治疗进展不同阶段的知识，并区分热点科普、辟谣、针对老/幼/孕群体的专门知识和疾病自查等板块，便于用户一站式获得具有针对性的疾病知识。
It is understood that the Tencent medical code in the "National New-style Pneumonia Real-time Research" section also classifies the relevant knowledge systems into prevention guidelines, diagnostic examinations, knowledge of different stages of treatment progression, and hot spots such as popular science, rumour denial, old / young / pregnant group expertise and disease self-examination to facilitate one-stop access to targeted disease knowledge.
为了让需要就诊的市民第一时间找到正确的医院，腾讯健康、微信团队、腾讯地图、腾讯新闻等腾讯内部多个团队联动，在国家卫生健康委宣传司的指导下，以一手权威门诊信息，快速发布“全国发热门诊地图”。
Tencent health, micro-letter team, Tencent map, Tencent news, and other Tencent internal teams linked up, under the guidance of the publicity department of the National Health Council, with a first-hand authoritative out-patient information, to quickly release the "National Heating Clinic Map."
截至2月4日，地图已覆盖357个城市，可查询12000多家医院，其中发热门诊医院11637家，1960家医疗救治定点医院。
As at 4 February, 357 cities had been covered by the map and more than 12,000 hospitals were available for consultation, 11,637 of which were fever outpatient hospitals and 1,960 were designated hospitals for medical treatment.
随着该地图迎来2.0版本的升级，用户还可查看部分医院的实时详情，包括医院实时人流查询，找出附近排队最快的医院；查看医院开诊时间及动态公告，方便用户规划自己的就诊安排。
With the 2.0 version of the map being upgraded, users will also be able to view the real-time details of some hospitals, including real-time hospital traffic enquiries, to find out which hospital is the fastest in the vicinity, and to check hospital opening times and dynamic announcements to facilitate users in planning their own appointments.
△“全国新型肺炎疫情动态”专区在线问诊，居家就医，缓解线下就医压力这场疫情牵动着所有人的心，也给普通患者的求医带来了不便。
"New Pneumonia Dynamics" nationwide online consultation, home medical treatment, relieve the pressure of online medical treatment This epidemic affects all people's hearts, but also causes inconvenience to ordinary patients seeking medical care.
疫情期间，为避免交叉感染，专家建议人们尽量居家隔离，一些小病痛的患者不建议去大医院就医。
During the outbreak, to avoid cross-infection, experts advise people to stay at home, and some patients with minor ailments do not recommend going to a major hospital.
这种情况下，该如何保证不因疫情耽误其他疾病的正常治疗？在线问诊为人们提供了居家就医的可能。
In this case, how to ensure that the epidemic does not delay the normal treatment of other diseases? Online consultation provides people with the possibility to seek medical treatment at home.
疫情期间，腾讯联合微医、好大夫在线、企鹅杏仁、医联、丁香医生等各大互联网医疗服务平台，联合数万名来自全国各地的持证医生，针对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，联动腾讯看点、腾讯视频、微信等平台提供在线义诊，包括居家防护、导诊建议、心理咨询等服务，向大众提供实时权威的在线咨询服务，并助力缓解线下医院压力。
During the outbreak, Tencent combined micromedicine, good doctor online, penguin almonds, medical association, clove doctor and other major Internet medical service platforms, joined tens of thousands of doctors from all over the country to provide online medical treatment, including home protection, counseling video, micro-letter and other services.
△腾讯联合微医、好大夫在线、企鹅杏仁、医联、丁香医生等各大互联网医疗服务平台提供在线义诊服务。
Tencent combined micromedicine, good doctor online, penguin almonds, medical association, clove doctor and other major Internet medical service platforms provide online free consultation service.
据透露，这些医生大部分来自三甲医院，利用空余时间以在线的方式云端驰援疫情。
Most of the doctors came from the Sanjia hospital and used their spare time to help the outbreak online, according to reports.
很多医生不乏处理过禽流感、季节性流感、手足口等传染病诊治经验，甚至还有医生处理过当年的SARS。
Many doctors have had experience in the management of avian influenza, seasonal influenza, hand, foot and mouth diseases, and even doctors have handled SARS in those years.
而每一个真实有效的问诊，背后都是一个焦虑的个体；而每一单有效的问诊问诊，也减少了一个去医院的人，规避一次交叉感染新冠肺炎的可能。
And every real and effective consultation is backed by an anxious individual; and every effective consultation reduces the likelihood of a person going to a hospital to avoid a new crown pneumonia.
据腾讯方面提供的数据显示，疫情时间，在线义诊服务平台上线48小时内，覆盖全国百万用户，累计回答用户咨询数十万条，帮助降低线下求诊不当造成的交叉感染风险。
According to Tencent's data, the epidemic's duration, the online free-clinic platform, reached a million users nationwide within 48 hours of coming online, answering hundreds of thousands of inquiries from users, helping to reduce the risk of cross-infection caused by improper off-line consultations.
目前，用户在线上问诊最关心如何辨别、预防这种新型冠状病毒。
At present, users on-line consultation is most concerned about how to identify and prevent this new coronavirus.
比如该如何预防冠状病毒感染，如果出现发热、干咳、乏力等症状，是否意味着已经感染新冠状病毒，新型冠状病毒有哪些传播方式等。
For example, how to prevent coronavirus infection, if there is fever, dry cough, fatigue and other symptoms, whether it means that has been infected with the new coronavirus, the new coronavirus transmission, and so on.
在线AI小工具，提升新冠肺炎自查效率对于大部分没有明显染病症状、并无明确病例接触史的用户，通过权威、专业的疫情科普，以及实时更新的辟谣科普，可以获得正确、科学的新冠肺炎预防知识。
On-line AI gadgets to improve the efficiency of self-examination of new crown pneumonia For most users who do not have obvious symptoms and no clear case history of exposure, correct and scientific knowledge of new crown pneumonia prevention can be obtained through authoritative, professional epidemiological science and real-time updated rumor-free science.
对于不确定是否需要线下求诊，但急需医生专业意见的用户，线上免费义诊则是一个新选择。
Online free medical treatment is a new option for users who are unsure of the need for off-line consultation, but are in desperate need of professional advice from a doctor.
而对于明确急需线下就诊的用户，第一时间找到正确的发热门诊或者定点收治医院至关重要。
And for the user who needs the hospital urgently, it is very important to find the right heating clinic or the designated hospital first.
当线上、线下问诊的服务面临压力的时候，人工智能的自查产品承担起了为更多人提供快速知情、分诊、导医服务的功能。
When the online and offline consultation services are under pressure, the self-check products of artificial intelligence take on the function of providing more people with quick and informed consultation and medical guidance.
2月5日，中华预防医学会联合腾讯，发布“新冠肺炎症状AI辅助自查工具”，帮助遇到发热、咳嗽等症状的用户，快速自我评估病情，做出合理的就医安排。
Tencent February 5, the Chinese Preventive Medicine Society jointly released the "New Crown Pneumonia Symptoms AI Assisted Self-Examination Tool" to help users with fever, cough and other symptoms, quickly assess their condition and make reasonable arrangements for medical treatment.
据了解，在中华预防医学会的指导下，“新冠肺炎症状AI辅助自查工具”中所有的AI决策逻辑，均经过专家的审核，保证AI辅助判断的可靠性。
It is understood that under the guidance of the Chinese Preventive Medicine Society, all AI decision-making logic in the AAI-aided self-examination tool for SARS symptoms is checked by experts to ensure the reliability of AI-assisted judgment.
同时，专家也将参与AI标注，提升AI辅助判断的准确率。
At the same time, experts will also participate in AI annotation to improve the accuracy of AI-assisted judgment.
腾讯医疗相关负责人表示，从正确预防查科普，到出现疑似症状找自查，再到寻求专业意见问义诊医生、正确求医查发热门诊地图，至此，腾讯医疗已经在线上打通了应对新冠肺炎的全流程决策工具。
Tencent Health officials say Tencent has online access to a full-process decision-making tool for dealing with new crown pneumonia, from correctly preventing Chacope, to looking for self-examination for suspected symptoms, to seeking professional advice from a medical consultant and getting a proper medical check-up of a fever clinic map.
腾讯医疗期望这个完整的线上链条，可以像一个漏斗，在帮助大众提供医疗及疫情权威及时信息的而同时，层层分解用户的需求，用线上方式解决较轻的需求，并最终将较重、需要线下就诊的需求快速、精准地引导到适合的下线医院最大可能地帮助医院形成精准收治，节约医疗资源，提高分配和使用的效率。
Tencent Medical expects this complete online chain, which can act as a funnel to help the public provide timely medical and epidemiological information, while at the same time breaking down user needs, addressing lighter needs online, and ultimately directing the heavier, off-line needs to the right down-line hospitals as quickly and accurately as possible to help hospitals develop accurate care, save resources, and distribute and use more efficiently.
面向C端提供便捷服务和窗口，面向B和G端腾讯也提供了工具的快速接入平台。
C-side to provide convenient services and windows, B and G-end Tencent also provides a tool for rapid access platform.
目前，腾讯“新冠肺炎疫情服务平台”以及各类疫情服务工具也已经服务16个省份40余个卫健和疾控部门，包括湖北、广东、北京、湖南、陕西、山东、河南、河北、江苏、安徽、江西、吉林、辽宁、黑龙江、内蒙古、青海等省区市，公众可通过相应微信公众号、小程序等进入疫情专区。
Tencent's "New Crown Pneumonia Service Platform" and various epidemic service tools have also served more than 40 health and disease control departments in 16 provinces, including Hubei, Guangdong, Beijing, Hunan, Shaanxi, Shandong, Henan, Hebei, Jiangsu, Anhui, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai.
腾讯方面表示，希望这种完整的线上线下结合与微信这个社交平台有效结合，实现对大众人群的充分和第一触达。
Tencent said that the hope of this integrated online offline integration and Weixin this social platform to achieve full and first contact with the general public.
本文为八点健闻Plus原创。
This article is original for Eight Jiangnan Plus.
八点健闻Plus，聚焦健康商业报道。
Eight Keen Hear Plus, Focus on Health Business Report.
商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922。
Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
科普、辟谣……抗疫战场上，互联网医疗还能做什么。
Science, rumor-fighting... what else can Internet medicine do on the battlefield of the plague.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "科普、辟谣……抗疫战场上，互联网医疗还能做什么";。
var msg _ title = & quot; science & amp; rumour & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "打开微信，关注“全国新型肺炎疫情动态”专区。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
