李文亮医生，那个最早预警新冠肺炎的人，走了。
Dr. lee wenliang, the first to warn of new crown pneumonia, has gone.
毛晓琼 王晨。
Xiao Qiong Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
There are no heroes but mortals who come out of the sky.
李文亮医生走了。
Dr. LiWenLiang has gone.
2020年2月7日凌晨3点48分，武汉市中心医院微博发布消息：我院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世，对此我们深表痛惜和哀悼。
At 3: 48 a.m. on February 7, 2020, the Weibo microblog of Wuhan Central Hospital announced that our hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang passed away at 2.58 a.m. on February 7, 2020 after a desperate and unsuccessful attempt to fight the pneumonia epidemic infected by the new coronavirus.
几个小时前，2月6日晚22点左右，李文亮病逝的消息，已经在很多人的微信群、朋友圈传开。
A few hours ago, around 22 pm on February 6, the news of Li Wenliang's death has spread in many people's micro-faith groups, friends and circles.
李文亮是最早预警此次新冠肺炎疫情的人之一。
Li Wenliang was one of the first to warn of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
2019年12月30日傍晚，他在一个同学群中发出相关信息。
On the evening of 30 December 2019, he sent a message among a group of students.
几天后的2020年1月3日，他因“在互联网发布不实言论”被辖区派出所训诫。
A few days later, on January 3, 2020, he was reprimanded by the police station for "making false statements on the Internet."
之后回到工作岗位。
Then back to work.
1月8日，他在接诊中不幸感染，1月10日开始咳嗽，16号之后呼吸困难加重，完全不能下床，2月1日确诊为新冠肺炎。
On 8 January, he was unhappily infected during medical consultations, began coughing on 10 January, became more difficult to breathe after 16 and was unable to leave bed at all, and was diagnosed with pneumonia on 1 February.
2月5日，病情出现恶化。
On 5 February, the condition deteriorated.
据透露，李文亮是在2月6日的晚上19点多被送进了抢救室。
Li Wenliang was taken to the rescue room at 19: 00 pm on February 6, according to the report.
21点18分，使用了肾上腺素针，21点30分左右停止心跳，用了ECOM（人工膜肺）进行抢救，23点58分再次使用肾上腺素针。
At 21: 18, the adrenaline needle was used, the heartbeat was stopped around 21: 30, with ECOM (artificial membrane lung) being used for rescue, and adrenaline was reapplied at 23: 58.
2月7日0点38分，武汉中心医院微博发布消息：“在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情中，我院眼科医生李文亮不幸感染，目前病危，正在全力抢救中”。
At 0038 on February 7, Wuhan Central Hospital Weibo announced: "In the fight against the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia, our hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang unfortunately infected, is now critically ill, is fully in rescue.
这一消息下方，排第一的留言是：不睡了！在线等一个奇迹！此前李文亮接受媒体采访时，还通过文字告诉记者，“康复后我想赶快回到一线工作，继续为患者看病。
"I want to get back to the front-line work and continue to see the patients," Li Wenliang told reporters in a written interview.
”然而，没有等到奇迹，只等到了这个令人伤心的消息。
And yet, without waiting for a miracle, only for the sad news.
预警：健康的社会不该只有一种声音李文亮是最早警示新冠肺炎疫情的人之一。
Warning: Healthy societies should not have only one voice. Li Wenliang was one of the first to warn of the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
李文亮出生于1986年，籍贯辽宁省锦州市北镇市。
Liwen Liang was born in 1986 in Beizhen, Jinzhou, Liaoning Province.
2004年考上武汉大学临床医学七年制专业，毕业后在厦门短暂工作3年，之后重返武汉，在武汉市中心医院工作。
He was admitted to Wuhan University in 2004, where he majored in clinical medicine for seven years. After graduating, he worked briefly in Xiamen for three years.
2019年12月30日，李文亮在医院看到了一份病人检测报告，报告显示该病人检出SARS冠状病毒高置信度阳性指标。
On December 30, 2019, Li Wenliang saw a patient test report at the hospital, which showed that the patient tested positive for the SARS coronavirus.
出于提醒同学注意防护的角度（其同学多为临床医生），他在大学同学微信群里发布了一段“华南海鲜水果市场确诊7例SARS”的文字。
As a precaution (most of his classmates are clinicians), he published a text on "7 Cases of SARS Diagnosed in the South China Seafood Fruit Market" in a group of university students.
一个小时后，他在群里更正道，“最新消息是，冠状病毒感染确定了，正在进行病毒分型”，并提醒大家不要外传，让家人亲人注意防范。
An hour later, he corrected himself in the group. "The latest news is that the coronavirus infection has been confirmed and the virus is being typed."
同一天，武汉市卫健委医政医管处发布《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》。
On the same day, Wuhan Health Commission Medical Administration issued the "Emergency Notice on Treating Unknown Causes of Pneumonia."
通知称，武汉市部分医疗机构陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人。
The notice said that some medical institutions in Wuhan city have been unexplained pneumonia patients.
通知要求各医疗机构要及时追踪统计救治情况，并按要求及时上报。
The notice requires all medical institutions to keep track of the statistical treatment and timely reporting as required.
该通知特别强调“未经授权任何单位，个人不得擅自对外发布救治信息”。
The circular stresses, inter alia, that "individuals shall not, without authorization, release treatment information to any other entity."
12月31日，武汉卫健委发布“不明原因肺炎”消息，国家卫健委相关人员也抵达武汉调查。
On December 31, Wuhan Health Commission issued "unknown causes of pneumonia" news, the National Health Commission related personnel also arrived in Wuhan to investigate.
2020年1月1日，武汉市公安局微博发布消息称，“近期，武汉市部分医疗机构发现接诊了多例肺炎病例，武汉市卫健委就此发布了情况通报。
On January 1, 2020, the Weibo Bureau of Wuhan Public Security Bureau announced: "Recently, several cases of pneumonia have been found in some medical institutions in Wuhan.
但一些网民在不经核实的情况下，在网络上发布、转发不实信息，造成不良社会影响。
But some netizens in the absence of verification, in the network to publish, forward false information, resulting in adverse social impact.
当地公安机关经调查核实，已传唤8名违法人员，并依法进行了处理。
After an investigation, the local public security organs verified that eight illegal personnel had been summoned and dealt with in accordance with the law.
”1月3日，李文亮收到了辖区派出所发出的训诫书，训诫理由为“在互联网上发表不属实的言论”。
On January 3, Li Wenliang received a reprimand from a police station in the jurisdiction for "publishing untrue statements on the Internet."
据他事后表示，当时只想着不被拘留就已经算好了，所以直接签了字。
After the incident, he said, he signed it directly, thinking only that he would not be detained.
此后，李文亮的工作并未受到影响，仍然在医院工作。
Since then, his job has not been affected and he still works in the hospital.
1月8日，他在医院接诊了一位82岁的女性患者，就诊疾病为急性闭角型青光眼。
On 8 January, he attended an 82-year-old female patient in hospital for acute angle-closure glaucoma.
因为病人当时没有发热症状，他并没有采取防护措施。
As the patient had no fever at the time, he did not take protective measures.
第二天，该病人发烧，CT结果显示为“双肺磨玻璃样病变”，但因为没有核酸试剂盒，并未得到确认。
The next day, the patient had a fever, and CT results showed "double lung grinding glass-like lesions," but the absence of nucleic acid test kits was not confirmed.
1月10日中午，李文亮开始咳嗽，并未引起注意。
At noon on January 10, Li Wenliang began to cough and did not attract attention.
1月11日，李文亮开始高烧，最高烧到38.6度。
On 11 January, Li Wenliang had a high fever, reaching a peak of 38.6 degrees.
当天，他做了CT检查，结果同样显示为“双肺多发感染，磨玻璃样病变”。
On the same day, he had a CT scan, which also showed "multiple lung infections, grinding glass-like lesions."
出于医生的职业敏感，他当天就实施了自我隔离，住到了外面的酒店。
Due to the doctor's professional sensitivity, he imposed self-isolation the same day, living outside the hotel.
同一天，武汉市卫健委发布关于不明原因的病毒性肺炎情况通报，表示目前未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
On the same day, Wuhan Health Commission issued a circular on unknown causes of viral pneumonia, said that no medical staff have been found to be infected, no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.
1月12号下午，李文亮被转入医院病房。
On the afternoon of January 12, Li Wenliang was transferred to the hospital ward.
当天，他的父母也出现了发热、呕吐的症状，并检测出肺部磨玻璃样病变，并于3天后入院治疗。
On the same day, his parents also developed symptoms of fever and vomiting, detected glassy lesions in the lungs, and were hospitalized three days later.
1月24号，李文亮被转到呼吸内科重症监护室，采用抗生素、激素、抗病毒类药物和高流量吸氧治疗，并于当天做了第一次核酸检测，结果不明。
On January 24, Li Wenliang was transferred to the intensive care unit of the Department of Respiratory Medicine for antibiotics, hormones, antiviral drugs and high-flow oxygen therapy.
此后，他又做了第二次核酸检测，结果为阴性，但出于稳妥起见，医院一直按照新型冠状病毒的临床指南为他进行治疗。
He then underwent a second nucleic acid test, which proved negative, but just to be on the safe side, the hospital has been treating him according to the clinical guidelines for the new coronavirus.
1月31日，李文亮做了第三次核酸检测，次日的结果显示为阳性，他被确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎。
On January 31, Li Wenliang did a third nucleic acid test, the next day results showed positive, he was diagnosed with the new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
当天，他在个人社交平台上表示，“尘埃落定，终于确诊了。
"The dust settled and the diagnosis was made," he said on his personal social networking platform.
”当时，他插着氧气管不能说话，只能通过手机和外界联系。
He was unable to speak with his oxygen tube plugged in and had to communicate with the outside world on his mobile phone.
1月28日，最高人民法院刊文评论“武汉市公安机关处罚的8名发布‘华南水果海鲜市场确诊7例SARS’的案件”，认为：尽管新型肺炎并不是SARS，但是信息发布者发布的内容，并非完全捏造。
On January 28, the Supreme People's Court published a commentary on "eight cases of SARS confirmed in the South China Fruit and Seafood Market" by eight people who were punished by Wuhan public security organs and concluded that although the new pneumonia was not SARS, the content released by the publisher was not a complete fabrication.
如果社会公众当时听信了这个“谣言”，并且基于对SARS的恐慌而采取了佩戴口罩、严格消毒、避免再去野生动物市场等措施，这对我们今天更好地防控新型肺炎，可能是一件幸事。
If the public had listened to this "rumour," and based on fear of SARS, measures such as wearing masks, strictly disinfecting, and avoiding going to wildlife markets again would have been a boon to our efforts today to better control the new form of pneumonia.
中国疾控中心首席科学家，国家卫健委高级专家组成员曾光在接受采访时表示，“这8个人是可敬的，他们是忧国忧民，有一定见解的。
"These eight people are respectable," Zeng Guang, chief scientist at the China CDC and a senior expert member of the National Fitness Commission, said in an interview.
作为公共卫生专家，希望同他们对话，希望从他们身上学点东西。
As a public health expert, I hope to talk to them and learn something from them.
”而李文亮在接受采访时说，“看到最高法院的文章后，我心里放松了许多，不太担心医院的处理了。
"Seeing the Supreme Court's article, I was a lot more relaxed and less worried about the hospital's handling," Li said in an interview.
我觉得一个健康的社会不该只有一种声音”。
I don't think a healthy society should have only one voice.
预言：从今天起你们也许就联系不到我了李文亮是一个热爱生活的普通人。
Prophecy: From today you may not be able to reach me. Li Wenliang is an ordinary person who loves life.
从他的微博可以看出，他喜欢肖战、毕导和虎扑，经常转发各种抽奖微博，有送手机、送车厘子、送免费旅游，他宠子、宠妻，在微博上给怀二胎的妻子买叶酸，看到别人拍秋天的长城，说有时间要带小李（爱人）去体验一下。
From his microblog, he likes Xiao, Bidding and Tiger Leap. He often relays all kinds of lucky tweets, including cell phones, caddy, free travel, his favorite son and wife, buying folic acid for his wife with two children on Weibo, watching others photograph the Great Wall of Autumn, saying he had time to take Xiao Li to experience it.
他喜欢美食，一碗9块钱的刀削面，在他笔下是：面条柔韧、红油清亮、牛肉紧实、泡菜酸爽……他会一次叫两家店的鸡排，还做了个比较……有时候也很文艺，分享了《滚石唱片突然发布不朽金曲<明天会更好>高清MV……》更多时候，他关注电子产品，早年经常给自己的手机跑分，会付钱去围观罗永浩对如何评价iPhone11的评价。
He loves food, a bowl of $9 sharpened noodles, in his pen: Noodles pliable, red oil crisp, beef firm, pickle sour... he calls chicken chops from two stores at a time and makes a comparison...
罗永浩发布新手机，他也要发个微博：昨天晚上守在电脑前听了2个小时的相声，9:59准时去京东守着抢购，结果被老婆及时阻止，为此我们冷战了一个晚上，早上的吻别也取消了，男人没点私房钱就是不行！！！另外，32G什么时候有货呐？对，他有时候也会自黑。
Lo Yonghao released the new mobile phone, he will also send a micro-blog: last night in front of the computer to listen to two hours of cross talk, 9: 59 to the Jingdong on time to buy, but his wife stopped, so we cold-war night, the morning kiss also canceled, men do not have private money!!!
他的微博中，也有很多关于医生的内容。
There is also a lot about doctors in his microblog.
比如去年12月28日，在同学群发出预警前两天，他转了声援北京民航医院杨文医生的文章，标题是《地狱空荡，恶魔人间》。
For example, on December 28, two days before a warning was issued by his fellow students, he turned to an article entitled "Hell is empty, demons are mortal," in solidarity with Dr. Yang Wenwen, Beijing's civil aviation hospital.
有时候会记录一些工作中的小故事，例如：今天手术真你妹的多，7点半了，给最后一个女病人包扎。
Sometimes there are little work stories, such as: Today's surgery is more than your sister, 7: 30, for the last female patients bandage.
病人:这么晚了，你们还没吃饭吧？ 我:为病人服务最重要，吃饭算什么？ 病人:好吧…微博呈现了一个平凡的李文亮，过着非常日常的生活。
Patient: Haven't you eaten at this late hour? I: Serving the sick is the most important thing, what is eating? Patient: OK... micro-blog presents an ordinary Li Wenliang, leading a very daily life.
2月7日凌晨1点41分，李文亮的同行，武汉协和医院的一位医生，协和医生Do先生分享了一张图片，上面写着：世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
At 1: 41 a.m. on Feb. 7, Li Wenliang's colleague, a doctor from Wuhan Hsiao He Hospital, shared a picture with the Chinese doctor, Dr. Do, which said: There are no heroes who come from heaven, only mortals who come out.
八年前的2012年12月21日，传说中的“世界末日”。
Eight years ago, on December 21, 2012, the mythical "end of the world."
这一天，李文亮发了微博调侃说：朋友们，从今天起你们也许就联系不到我了，因为我要去拯救地球了。
On this day, Li Wenliang made a joke: Friends, you may not be able to contact me from today, because I am going to save the earth.
如果22日太阳照常升起，那就说明我成功了，不用感谢我，这都是应该的！毛晓琼 王晨|撰稿王吉陆|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
If the sun rises as usual on the 22nd, it means I have succeeded, without thanking me, and rightly so! & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李文亮医生，那个最早预警新冠肺炎的人，走了。
Dr. lee wenliang, the first to warn of new crown pneumonia, has gone.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "李文亮医生，那个最早预警新冠肺炎的人，走了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Dr. Lim Wenliang, the first person to have warned of pneumonia, took & quot; & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; No hero ever came down from the sky, only mortals who stood up.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
