淘大花园SARS疑案复盘：楼上楼下粪便传播如何发生？。
Taobao large garden SARS suspicion: upstairs and downstairs feces spread how to occur?
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
1月31日，《新英格兰医学杂志》报道中提到，在美国首例确诊患者的粪便样本中发现病毒。
On January 31, the New England Journal of Medicine reported that the virus had been found in faecal samples from the first confirmed patient in the United States.
2月1日，深圳市第三人民医院也有类似发现。
A similar discovery was made in Shenzhen's Third People's Hospital on February 1.
这让人联想到2003年的SARS疫情，香港淘大花园300多个病例，就是被粪便传播感染。
This is reminiscent of the SARS epidemic in 2003, when over 300 cases of Taobao Garden in Hong Kong were infected by fecal feces.
香港特区卫生部门经过调查发现，帮助病毒传播的真凶，是藏在卫生间地漏下，毫不起眼的U形存水弯。
An investigation by the HKSAR health authorities found that the real culprit in helping the virus spread was hiding under a leaky toilet floor and an invisible U-shaped water bend.
△图片来源：yestone2003年3月22日，位于香港九龙区的淘大花园出现了一例SARS患者。
2007-9-25 21: 48 A SARS case occurred in Taobao Garden, Kowloon, Hong Kong on March 22, 2003.
这原本并不是什么大新闻，因为当时的香港已经有100多人感染SARS。
It wasn't big news, as more than 100 people were infected with SARS in Hong Kong.
但在此后的十多天里，SARS疫情在这个大型住宅区里像着魔一样蔓延开来。
But for more than a decade, the SARS epidemic spread like an obsession in a large residential area.
从3月22日到4月15日，淘大花园总共出现321个病例（最后死亡42人），成为全球范围内短时爆发SARS疫情最集中的重灾区。
From March 22 to April 15, Taobao Garden registered 321 cases (42 deaths), making it the worst affected area in the world for a short outbreak of SARS.
这些病人普遍出现腹泻、发烧和呼吸困难的症状，有人在送进医院不久后便不治身亡。
Diarrhoea, fever and dyspnea are common in these patients, and people die shortly after they are admitted to hospital.
更让人不安的是，根据香港特区卫生署对这些病人的问卷调查，他们中只有4%的人接触过SARS患者，和当时公认的SARS病毒通过近距离飞沫传播的特征不符。
What is more disturbing is that, according to a survey of these patients conducted by the Department of Health of the HKSAR, only 4% of them had ever been exposed to SARS patients, which is not consistent with the accepted characteristics of SARS virus transmission through droplets at close range.
这意味着，在淘大花园潜伏着一种不为人知的传播机制，SARS病毒可以通行无阻。
This means that there is an unknown transmission mechanism lurking in the Taobao Gardens, where the SARS virus can pass unimpeded.
一时间，淘大花园“毒楼”的名号不胫而走。
For a while, Taobao garden "poison building" name spread everywhere.
为了阻止疫情扩散，香港特区破天荒地发布了隔离令，共涉及200多户居民。
For the first time, the HKSAR issued isolation orders to stop the spread of the disease, affecting more than 200 families.
而转机也恰好在此时出现，在排除了电梯、饮用水污染等因素外，调查组把目光锁定在了大楼的污水处理系统。
The turnaround also happens at this time, in the removal of elevators, drinking water pollution and other factors, the investigation team focused on the building's sewage treatment system.
后来的调查证明，病毒确实藏身在污水里。
Subsequent investigation proved that the virus did hide in the sewage.
它通过感染者的粪便进入污水管道，再通过其他住户干涸已久的地漏进入卫生间，附着在毛巾、地毯以及各种浴室设备的表面，最终引发人体感染，构成了“粪便传播”的全链条。
It enters sewers through the feces of infected people, drains into bathrooms through leaks from other households that have dried up long ago, and attaches itself to towels, carpets and surfaces of bathroom fixtures, eventually causing infection and creating a chain of "faecal transmission."
17年后，与SARS冠状病毒同属一个家族的新型冠状病毒来袭，又呈现出类似的传播特征。
Seventeen years later, the new coronavirus, which belongs to the same family as the SARS coronavirus, showed similar transmission characteristics.
近日，钟南山院士表示，由于已经在患者粪便中发现了新型冠状病毒，所以不能排除新冠病毒通过粪便传播的可能性。
Recently, academician Zhong Nan Shan said that because the new coronavirus has been found in patients' feces, the possibility of transmission of the new coronavirus through feces cannot be ruled out.
淘大花园里的SARS疑案2003年3月22日，香港威尔斯亲王医院收治了一名33岁的男性患者A，他患有慢性肾病，曾是医院的常客。
Suspected SARS in Taobao Gardens On March 22, 2003, a 33-year-old male patient, A, was admitted to the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong.
但这一次，他不仅发烧腹泻，还伴随严重的呼吸障碍。
But this time, he had not only a fever and diarrhea, but also severe respiratory problems.
A的病情引起了医院的高度重视。
A's illness has aroused great attention in the hospital.
半个月前，威尔斯亲王医院确诊了香港首例SARS患者，并造成数十名医护人员感染，A的症状和他们几乎完全一样。
Half a month ago, Prince of Wales Hospital confirmed the first case of SARS in Hong Kong and infected dozens of health care workers with symptoms almost identical to theirs.
出于谨慎考虑，医院在对A进行救治的同时，询问了他过去几天的行踪。
Cautious, the hospital, while treating A, questioned him about his whereabouts over the past few days.
据称，A曾在3月14日和3月19日两天，到过其弟弟位于淘大花园E座的家中，并且两次都使用了卫生间的抽水马桶。
On 14 March and 19 March, A allegedly visited his brother's home in Amoy Garden, Block E, and used toilet flush toilets on both occasions.
△图片来源：yestone两天后，A的弟弟和弟媳因为相同症状入住了香港基督教联合医院，很快被确诊为SARS。
After two days, A's brother and sister-in-law were admitted to the United Christian Hospital in Hong Kong with the same symptoms.
此后两天，淘大花园陆续出现SARS病例，截至3月26日，共有15名患者入院，来自7个家庭，多数居住在E楼的7号和8号单元。
Over the following two days, SARS cases began to appear in the Taobao Gardens. As of 26 March, 15 patients from seven families had been admitted, most of them living in Units 7 and 8 in the E building.
这一现象立即引起了香港特区卫生福利及食物局的注意。
This phenomenon was immediately brought to the attention of the Health, Welfare and Food Bureau of the HKSAR.
在3月26日的例行会议上，时任局长杨永强要求立即对淘大花园疫情展开调查。
At a regular meeting on March 26, then-director Yang Yongqiang called for an immediate investigation into the epidemic in Taobao.
淘大花园是一个由19幢大楼簇拥组成的大型住宅区，共有住宅4896套，人口稠密。
Taobao Garden is a large residential area consisting of 19 buildings, 4,896 residential units, densely populated.
其中，E楼为36层楼，每层8个单元，呈井字形分布，每个单元约为48平米。
Of these, the E building consists of 36 floors, 8 units per floor, with a well-shaped distribution of approximately 48 m2 per unit.
A的弟弟就住在这幢楼的16层7号单元。
A's brother lives in Unit 7 on the 16th floor of the building.
3月26日下午，香港卫生署九龙区办事处的工作人员到淘大花园E座实地考察，他们到了出现病例的7个楼层，向20户居民进行查问。
On the afternoon of 26 March, staff of the Kowloon Regional Office of the Department of Health visited Amoy Garden, Block E, where they visited 7 floors where there were cases and questioned 20 families.
起初，他们判断病毒来自电梯或大堂等公共空间。
Initially, they determined that the virus came from public spaces such as elevators or lobbies.
这个想法很快就被推翻，因为大楼的清洁工每晚都要乘坐电梯收集垃圾，但没有被感染。
The idea was quickly overturned because the building's cleaners used elevators every night to collect rubbish, but were not infected.
连日调查只得出一个结论，淘大花园的感染源头就在E座，因为这里的病例出现得最早，数量也最多，占到了整个小区的4成以上。
Day after day the survey concluded that the source of the infection in the Taobao Garden was Block E, where the earliest and most numerous cases occurred, accounting for more than 40 percent of the community.
调查没有进展，疫情却在加速扩散。
The investigation has not progressed, but the epidemic is accelerating.
截至3月30日，淘大花园的感染人数已经上升到了190人，其中E座93人。
By March 30, the number of people infected with Taobao Gardens had risen to 190, of whom 93 were in Block E.
这一天的例会上，杨永强向当时的特区行政长官董建华提出了隔离E座的方案，董建华表示同意，并把这个任务指派给了时任卫生署长陈冯富珍。
At the day's meeting, Yang Yongqiang proposed a plan to isolate seat E to Tung Chee Hwa, then the chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Tung agreed, assigning the task to then-Health Minister Margaret Chan.
后来的公开资料显示，陈冯富珍对隔离方案有所保留，包括她在内的众多卫生署人士认为，一旦发出隔离令，香港将面临巨大舆论压力。
Subsequent public sources indicated that Ms Chan had reservations about the separation package and many members of the Department of Health, including her, felt that Hong Kong would be under considerable pressure if an isolation order was issued.
但事态的恶化没有给她犹豫的时间。
But the deterioration did not give her time to hesitate.
3月31日早晨6点，陈冯富珍代表香港卫生署对淘大花园E座发出为期10天的隔离令。
On behalf of the Department of Health of Hong Kong, Ms Margaret Chan issued a 10-day isolation order for Block E of Amoy Garden at 6: 00 a.m. on March 31.
隔离期间，除非有官方的书面文件，任何人不能出入大楼。
During isolation, no one may enter or leave the building unless there is an official written document.
这是自上世纪60年代霍乱疫情以来，香港首次发布隔离令。
It was Hong Kong's first quarantine since the cholera epidemic in the 1960s.
就在这时，一个不经意的发现让形势出现了转机。
It was then that an inadvertent discovery turned the situation around.
4月1日，隔离令生效的第二天，时任香港环境运输及工务局局长廖秀冬在勘察E座时发现，大楼的污水管道和部分住户的卫生间存在气体流通，她将这一发现告知了杨永强。
On April 1, the day after the quarantine order came into effect, the then Secretary for the Environment, Transport and Works, Dr Sarah Liao, told Mr Yeung Wing-keung during a survey of Block E that there was gas circulation in the sewers of the building and in some households' toilets.
杨永强立刻感到事态不同寻常，因为他在前几天刚刚得知，部分患者的粪便样本中携带SARS病毒。
Yang immediately felt the situation unusual, because he just learned a few days ago, some patients in the stool samples with the SARS virus.
他们开始怀疑污水排放系统是导致SARS在E座垂直楼层传播的原因。
They began to suspect that the sewage system was responsible for the spread of SARS on the vertical floor of Block E.
出于安全考虑，他们连夜撤走了E楼的200多户居民，将他们送去远离市区的度假村定点隔离。
For security reasons, they evacuated more than 200 families from E-building overnight and took them away from urban resorts for targeted isolation.
另一方面，廖秀冬牵头成立了专职小组，对E座的污水排放系统展开详细调查。
On the other hand, Liao took the lead in setting up a dedicated team to conduct a detailed survey of Sewage Disposal System in Block E.
四天后，廖秀冬以技术报告的形式提交了初步调查结果，解释了受污染的水如何产生液滴，这些液滴又是如何通过卫生间干涸的地漏进入其它住户家中。
Four days later, Liao presented her preliminary findings in the form of a technical report explaining how contaminated water produced droplets, which in turn leaked into other households' homes through dried-up toilets.
至此，悬置半个月之久的淘大花园SARS疑案终于告破。
At this point, suspended for half a month Taobao garden SARS suspects finally broken.
香港特区政府在4月17日公布了调查报告——真凶是藏在卫生间地漏下，毫不起眼的U形存水弯。
The Hong Kong SAR government reported on April 17 that the real culprit was hiding in a leaky bathroom floor, with an unobtrusive U-shaped water storage bend.
致命的U型存水弯U型存水弯是建筑中非常常见的一种管件，作用是隔绝下水道的空气，防止臭气进入室内。
Deadly U-shaped water storage bend U-shaped water storage structure is a very common pipe, the role of isolation sewer air, to prevent stink into the room.
淘大花园E座，在建筑设计上有8个垂直的污水管，每条管道都收集来自同一单元各楼层的污水。
Amoy Garden Block E has eight vertical sewers, each collecting sewage from each floor of the same unit.
这些污水分别来自抽水马桶、洗手池和浴室的地漏，这3个卫生设备上都安装了U型存水弯，只有当存水弯里有足够的水量时，才能够发挥隔离作用。
The effluent comes from the spillage of the toilet, sink and bathroom, all of which are equipped with U-shaped water storage bends, which can only be isolated if there is sufficient water in the water storage bend.
根据对E楼住户的调查，多数居民都提到了卫生间臭味明显的现象，反映出上述的3个存水弯里，至少有1个存在问题。
According to a survey of E-building households, most residents referred to the marked stench of toilets, reflecting the presence of at least one of the three water storage bends mentioned above.
抽水马桶、洗手盆都是常用的，这2个存水弯应该长期留有积水，所以问题大概率是出在浴室地面的地漏上。
The toilet and sink are commonly used, the 2 water storage bends should be long-term water accumulation, so the probability of the problem is in the bathroom floor leakage.
根据卫生署工作人员的入户调查，淘大花园的大部分住户都习惯于拿拖把拖地，而不是拿水冲洗，这就容易导致地漏下的U型存水弯存不下水，起不到隔离污水管臭味的作用。
According to a household survey conducted by the staff of the Department of Health, most households in the Taobao Garden are used to mopping the floor with mop instead of washing with water.
SARS疫情爆发后，香港大学的科学家曾在淘大花园E座某一单元里做了一次实验。
Scientists from the University of Hong Kong conducted an experiment in a unit in Block E of Taobao Garden after the SARS outbreak.
当打开浴室的排风扇时，浴室内气压为负，污水管里的空气可以通过地漏被吸入到浴室。
When the bathroom fan is turned on, the air pressure in the bathroom is negative and the air in the sewer can be sucked into the bathroom through leakage.
如果污水管里的空气中含有病毒，那么这条路线就成了病毒传播最隐蔽的途径，这也能够解释为什么淘大花园的传染病例大多集中在垂直方向上的7号和8号单元。
If the air in the sewer contains viruses, the route becomes the most hidden route for the virus to spread, which explains why most cases of infection in Taobao Gardens are concentrated in units 7 and 8, which are located vertically.
但另一方面，污水管的水流是往下走的，按着这个规律，病毒传播也应该往下。
On the other hand, the flow of water from the sewer runs downwards, and according to this law, the virus should also spread downward.
以16楼的首个患者为例，他不可能通过上述途径感染到16楼以上的住户，真实的情况却是，不管是7号单元还是8号单元，集中感染的楼层都为13楼到24楼之间，这说明病毒还有向上的渠道。
In the case of the first patient on the 16th floor, it was unlikely that he would have been able to infect households above the 16th floor through the above-mentioned means that, in the case of both Unit 7 and Unit 8, the centrally infected floor was between the 13th and 24th floors, indicating that there were upward avenues for the virus.
针对这一问题的解释，4月17日香港特区发布的调查结果中并没有提及，但一个月后世界卫生组织的调查报告作了补充。
The explanation was not mentioned in the April 17 survey published by the Hong Kong SAR, but was supplemented a month later by a WHO survey.
报告指出，当浴室抽气扇开动时，可能会将从污水管抽出的病毒带到天井，令受污染的空气通过打开的窗户，进入相隔数层的住户。
The report notes that when the bathroom fan is activated, viruses drawn from the sewer may be brought into the patio, allowing contaminated air to enter the separated floors through open windows.
△ 资料图淘大花园的建筑构造也助推了这种传播。
The architecture of the Taobao Great Garden also contributed to this spread.
例如，在E座7号和8号单元之间，是一个宽度为1.5米的狭窄天井。
For example, between Units 7 and 8 of Block E is a narrow patio 1.5 metres wide.
根据空气动力学，狭窄天井内的空气很难横向流动，但能够快速上下流动。
According to aerodynamics, the air in a narrow patio is difficult to move horizontally, but can move up and down quickly.
一旦带有病毒的气体在抽气扇的作用下逸出室外，它就可以在这个狭长的空间里通行无阻，这就为病毒向上播散提供了可能。
Once the gas with the virus escapes out of the house under the action of the fan, it can pass through the long, narrow space, making it possible for the virus to spread upward.
向下靠地漏，向上靠天井，这就是淘大花园SARS病毒快速扩散的真相。
Leakage down and up the patio is the truth about the rapid spread of the SARS virus in Amoy Gardens.
新冠病毒可能通过粪便传播无独有偶，17年后，新冠病毒能够通过粪便传播的概率正在加大。
The new crown virus may also spread through faeces, and 17 years later the probability that it will be able to spread through faeces is increasing.
1月31日，权威医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》报道，美国首例确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎患者成功治愈，其中提到了在患者发病第7日采集的粪便样本中发现了病毒。
The first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia in the United States was successfully cured, the New England Journal of Medicine reported on January 31, citing the discovery of the virus in fecal samples collected on the seventh day of the disease.
2月1日，深圳市第三人民医院肝病研究所也有了类似发现，他们在当地某些新冠肺炎确诊患者粪便中，检测出新型冠状病毒核酸呈阳性。
On February 1, a similar finding was made at the Liver Disease Institute of Shenzhen's Third People's Hospital, which tested positive for the new coronavirus in the feces of patients diagnosed with certain new coronary pneumonia.
香港大学医学院微生物系教授张其威此前接受《新京报》采访时表示，目前还没有在粪便上检测到活病毒，但是参考淘大花园事件，他认为，粪便中含有活冠状病毒的概率非常高，粪便传播的途径清晰存在。
Zhang Qiwei, a professor in the Department of Microbiology at the University of Hong Kong's School of Medicine, told the Beijing News that no live virus had been detected in feces, but referring to the Taobao incident, he said there was a very high probability that fecal coronavirus was present and the route of faecal transmission was clear.
“至少会有两种方式。
"There are at least two ways.
一种是粪便沾到了裤子的某个部位，然后手碰到了这个部位，再碰到鼻子或者嘴巴，人就会传染病毒。
One is that the feces stick to a part of the trousers, then the hand touches the area, then touches the nose or mouth, and the person becomes infected.
第二种是感染者上完厕所冲马桶时，冲马桶的水一般有较大的冲击力，把粪便中的病毒挥发到空气中。
The second is that when infected toilet flushing toilet, flush toilet water generally has a greater impact, the virus in feces volatile into the air.
如果厕所是封闭的，有人正好在边上，就有可能通过呼吸被感染。
If the toilet is closed and someone is right next to it, it is possible to get infected by breathing.
”张其威表示，虽然从真实生活来看，这两种途径的可能性都不高，但依然不能轻视，尤其是要注意公共厕所，它符合第二种方式，是非常高危的传播源。
Mr Zhang said that while neither approach was likely to be high in real life, it could not be discounted, particularly with regard to public toilets, which fit into the second approach and were a very high-risk source of transmission.
好消息是，截至目前，还没有发现类似淘大花园这样的传播案例。
The good news is that so far, there have been no such cases of spreading as the Taobao Garden.
在此前公布的全国确诊新冠病例中，深圳和内蒙古先后出现了两例楼上楼下邻居传染患病的情况，但都基本排除了通过污水系统发生粪便传播的可能。
Of the newly confirmed cases reported nationwide, Shenzhen and Inner Mongolia have had two cases of infection from neighbors downstairs and upstairs, but both have largely ruled out faecal transmission through sewage systems.
经过流行病学调查，深圳的感染病例最大可能是因为同乘一部电梯。
After the epidemiological investigation, Shenzhen's infection cases are most likely due to the use of the same elevator.
而在内蒙古的个案中，被感染者白某住在确诊患者宋某楼上，两人虽然没有直接接触，但有共同接触者，且同样已被确诊。
But in the Inner Mongolia case, the infected person Bai lives in the diagnosed patient Song Mou upstairs, although two people do not have direct contact, but have common contacts, and has also been diagnosed.
17年前，淘大花园用极其惨重的代价，证明了SARS病毒可以通过粪便传播。
Seventeen years ago, Taobao Gardens proved, at great cost, that the SARS virus could spread through feces.
回望过去，希望历史不再重演。
Look back and hope that history will never repeat itself.
【参考资料】香港淘大花园非典传染原因的再探讨，《水务世界》香港特区《立法会调查政府与医院管理局对严重急性呼吸系统综合症爆发的处理手法专责委员会报告》新冠病毒患者粪便测出核酸阳性，意味着什么？新京报网毛晓琼|撰稿刘冉|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Revisiting the Causes of the SARS Epidemic in the Amoy Garden in Hong Kong, China The Legislative Council of the HKSAR Legislative Council investigates the handling of SARS outbreaks by the Government and the Hospital Authority. What does it mean if feces of patients with new crown virus test positive?
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
淘大花园SARS疑案复盘：楼上楼下粪便传播如何发生？。
Taobao large garden SARS suspicion: upstairs and downstairs feces spread how to occur?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "淘大花园SARS疑案复盘：楼上楼下粪便传播如何发生？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "真凶是卫生间地漏下，毫不起眼的U形存水弯";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
