武汉物资紧缺，民间力量把援助送进医院到底有多难？。
Wuhan is in short supply, how difficult is it for civilian forces to send aid to hospitals?
毛晓琼谭卓瞾吴靖。
Mao Xiaoqiong Tam Jing Wu Jing.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
2月1日，一家专业从事医药分销配送的企业，开始协助武汉红十字会处理仓库中堆积的援助物资。
On February 1, an enterprise specializing in the distribution and distribution of medicines began assisting the Wuhan Red Cross Society in handling the accumulation of aid in warehouses.
无序的状况有了很大改观。
The disorderly situation has improved considerably.
1月23日武汉“封城”以来，医院防护物资告急，各种民间力量应声而动。
January 23, Wuhan "closure", the hospital protection material crisis, a variety of civil forces responded to the call.
华中科大和武汉大学的美国北加州校友会，联合行动，跨越太平洋，将2.5吨的口罩、隔离服等物资送到武汉协和。
Huazhong University and Wuhan University's North California Alumni Association, joint operations across the Pacific, 2.5 tons of masks, isolation clothing and other materials sent to Wuhan Concorde.
一家外资医疗器械公司在湖北的负责人，充当起协调捐赠物资对接的志愿者。
The head of a foreign medical equipment company in Hubei acts as a volunteer to coordinate the donation and docking of materials.
越来越多的民间公益组织，选择自己包办，物资直送受赠单位，以提高效率，在红十字会或者慈善总会只是进行登记备案。
More and more non-governmental public organizations choose to arrange their own arrangements and send goods directly to grantees in order to improve their efficiency.
2月1日中午，汇集了来自四面八方援助物资的武汉红十字会临时仓库，相比此前新闻视频中呈现出来的混乱无序，有了巨大变化。
The makeshift warehouse of Wuhan Red Cross Society, which gathers aid from all sides at noon on February 1, has changed dramatically from the chaos seen in previous news videos.
4个来自九州通的医疗物流专业人员，与武汉红十字会、武汉市卫健委以及武汉市市场监督管理局的工作人员一起，负责指挥调度仓库员工，24小时轮值。
Four medical logistics professionals from Kyushu Tong, along with staff from Wuhan Red Cross Society, Wuhan City Health Commission and Wuhan Municipal Market Supervision Authority, are in charge of directing and dispatching warehouse staff on a 24-hour shift.
2月1日，武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部指派九州通医药集团协助红十字会处理物资。
On February 1, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command assigned Kyushu Tong Pharmaceutical Group to help the Red Cross deal with materials.
九州通是一家专业从事医药分销配送的上市企业，总部位于武汉。
Kyushu General is a professional distribution and distribution of medicine listed enterprises, headquartered in Wuhan.
仓库里存放的物资，既有定向捐赠的，也有不定向捐赠的。
The materials stored in the warehouse are either donated or donated in an untargeted way.
此前，定向和不定向捐赠物资都被曝出过医生拿着齐全的证明文件前来，最后空手而归的情况。
Previously, both targeted and undirected donations were revealed to have arrived with complete documentation and returned empty-handed.
一边是各家医院物资告急，纷纷向外界求援；一边是红会仓库物资积压，流通不畅。
On the one hand, hospitals are in urgent need of help; on the other hand, ICRC warehouse supplies backlog, circulation is not smooth.
九州通加入之后，多方通力协作，终于把面积有两个足球场大小的仓库清空了不少。
Kyushu after joining, multi-cooperation and finally the area of a two-football-field-sized warehouse empty a lot.
八点健闻在现场看到，前来领取物资的医生排队拿着介绍信和货物领取单，交给仓库的工作人员，再随工作人员进去取回物资。
At the scene, the doctor who came to collect the supplies queued up with a letter of introduction and a bill of lading, which was given to the warehouse staff, who then went in to retrieve the goods.
同时，统一把控的快递渠道也松开了口子。
At the same time, the unified control of the express delivery channels also loosened.
原本从1月29日开始，顺丰对武汉开通的绿色渠道不再接收个人业务，直通医院的社会捐赠渠道被关闭。
Originally started on January 29, Shunfeng opened to Wuhan on the green channel no longer accept personal business, through the hospital's social donation channels were closed.
到1月31日晚上，顺丰和京东两家物流公司紧急召开内部会议，调整为从2月1日起，从北京、上海、广州等9个城市发往武汉的物资均可在线下单，物资将直送指定单位，不用经过红十字会中转。
By the evening of January 31, two logistics companies, Shunfeng and Jingdong, had held an emergency internal meeting, which was rescheduled to start February 1. From February 1, goods sent to Wuhan from 9 cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, could be ordered online and delivered directly to designated units without passing through the Red Cross.
这些转变的背景，是武汉红十字会在援助物资接收和分发中的效率低下，招致舆论广泛批评。
The background to these changes was the inefficiency of the Wuhan Red Cross in receiving and distributing aid, which drew widespread criticism from public opinion.
专业社会力量的加入，显然有助于缓解困局。
The addition of professional social forces has clearly helped to alleviate the situation.
事实上，尽管困难重重，各种社会民间力量一直满怀热情，尽力为湖北抗疫一线提供援助。
In fact, despite the difficulties, various social forces have been enthusiastic, trying to provide frontline assistance to Hubei plague.
面对新冠病毒疫情这样的重大危机关头，在物资供应上，官方组织和民间力量各展所长，汇成合力，更有利于资源的优化配置，从而为一线“作战”的医务人员提供充足的后援保障。
In the face of a major crisis such as the New Crown Virus outbreak, the combined efforts of official organizations and private forces in the supply of materials are more conducive to the optimal allocation of resources, thus providing adequate back-up support to frontline "combat" medical personnel.
跨越太平洋的接力1月23日，武汉“封城”当天，武汉各大医院纷纷向社会求援：防护物资告急。
The Trans-Pacific Relay January 23, Wuhan "closed the city" day, Wuhan major hospitals to the community to call for assistance: protection supplies are in urgent need.
其中就包括抗疫一线重点医院——武汉协和医院。
Among them, including the first-line anti-epidemic hospital - Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
身在美国北加州的张歆（化名），第一时间看到了协和医院的募捐信息。
In the United States in Northern California Zhang Xin (alias), the first time saw Concorde Hospital fund-raising information.
他毕业于华中科技大学，武汉于他而言，是有至少四年回忆的城市。
He graduated from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, for him, is a city with at least four years of recollection.
当晚，他参加了华科北加州校友会的一场紧急电话会议，讨论救济计划。
That evening, he attended an emergency conference call from the North Carolina Alumni Association to discuss relief efforts.
另一边，远在美国硅谷的武汉大学校友也接到DR（Direct Relief，国际直接救援组织）咨询捐赠的电话。
On the other hand, alumni of Wuhan University, far from Silicon Valley, also received a phone call from Direct Relief International to solicit donations.
DR是美国最大的国际救援组织之一，曾在2008年汶川地震中捐助过大批救援物质。
DR, one of the largest international aid groups in the United States, donated large amounts of relief materials in the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake.
一天之后，华科和武大两所高校的北加州校友会联合成立了WuhanUnited（wuhanunited.org，武汉加油行动联盟），成员一共20多名，负责对武汉协和的定向捐赠。
A day later, the North Carolina Alumni Association of Waco and WU universities jointly founded the Wuhan United (Wuhanunit.org), a coalition of more than 20 members responsible for targeted donations to Wuhan Concorde.
毕业于华科的智慧商圈创始人龚义涛，是这次行动的总指挥。
Gong Yitao, founder of Wise Business Circle, who graduated from China, is the general commander of the operation.
DR捐赠的物资，包括20万个外科口罩、2.75万双医用手套和4000件隔离服，重量有2.5吨。
DR donations included 200,000 surgical masks, 27,500 pairs of medical gloves and 4,000 pieces of protective clothing, weighing 2.5 tons.
校友中的几位医生特意从清单中清理出了非医用产品。
Several of the alumni have deliberately removed non-medical products from the list.
这看似细微末节，却是众多捐赠者容易忽视的。
This may seem trivial, but many donors tend to ignore it.
不符合规格的物资非但派不上用场，还会造成人力物力的浪费。
Materials that do not conform to specifications are not only useless, but also wasteful of human and material resources.
1月25日，疫情形势愈加严峻，但龚义涛带来了好消息——两天后，联邦快递有一架货机从加州起飞，可以免费运输救助武汉的物资。
The situation worsened on January 25, but Gong Yitao brought good news - two days later, FedEx had a cargo plane from California that could deliver free supplies to Wuhan.
但问题是，捐赠的相关手续还没有落实。
The problem, however, is that the relevant procedures for donations have not yet been implemented.
他们必须和时间赛跑，在物资出发前，搞定手续问题。
They have to race against the clock to get the paperwork done before the supplies leave.
在后续的36个小时内，负责这批物资在广州海关清关事宜的是武汉大学广州校友会成员黎文全。
Within the next 36 hours, Li Wenquan, a member of Wuhan University Guangzhou Alumni Association, was responsible for customs clearance of the goods in Guangzhou.
他认为，团队完成了一次“不可能”的任务。
In his view, the team performed an "impossible" task.
DR和武汉协和签订捐赠协议之后，确认通过湖北省慈善总会的渠道过海关。
DR and Wuhan Concorde signed a donation agreement, confirmed through the Hubei Charities Association channel through the customs.
黎文全说，他们权衡了武汉红十字会和湖北慈善总会，选择了后者。
He said they weighed the Wuhan Red Cross against Hubei Philanthropy and chose the latter.
DR有专业的物资援助经验，后来的经历表明，他们坚持的两点原则，在任务完成中起到了至关重要的作用。
DR has professional material assistance experience, and later experience has shown that their adherence to two principles played a crucial role in the completion of the mission.
其一是只在慈善总会备案，坚持不进仓库；其二是坚持清关时不拆包。
The first is only in the charitable records, insist on not entering the warehouse; the second is to adhere to customs clearance when the package.
捐赠物资要经过湖北慈善总会的审核，需提供相应的进口单据、捐献人资料、货物品种数量。
Donations of materials to be examined by the Hubei Charity Association, to provide the corresponding import documents, donor information, the number of goods.
审查环节花了几个小时，但比想象的顺利。
The vetting process took several hours, but it went more smoothly than expected.
1月27日下午3点，援助武汉协和医院的物资，离开DR的仓库，前往机场。
On 27 January, at 3 p.m., assistance was provided for supplies from Wuhan Concorde Hospital, leaving the DR warehouse for the airport.
不过，此时通过海关的手续并没有完成。
However, the customs clearance process was not completed at this time.
他们必须在货车开往机场，到物资飞越太平洋的21个小时内，完成过关手续。
They must complete the clearance process within 21 hours of the goods being transported to the airport and across the Pacific Ocean.
“我们通过湖北省侨联和湖北慈善总会对接，拿到湖北省慈善总会的批文，并将所有通关文件，交给联邦快递中国团队。
"We docked through the Hubei Overseas Association and Hubei Philanthropy Association, got the approval from the Hubei Provincial Charity Association, and handed all the customs documents to the FedEx China team.
”张歆说，所有的工作说起来简单，但给湖北慈善总会的资料，要怎么修改、怎么盖章，有很多细碎的问题要处理。
Zhang Xin said that all the work is simple, but to Hubei Charities Information, how to modify, how to seal, there are a lot of small problems to deal with.
“大家在深夜还开电话会议，讨论一些问题的解决方案，而华科武大北美负责人几乎一天只睡四小时。
"There were teleconferences late at night to discuss solutions to some of the problems, and Wakovuddin's North American chief sleeps almost four hours a day.
”飞机抵达广州，是在1月29日。
The plane arrived in Guangzhou on January 29.
接下来，是清关环节。
Next, there is clearance.
邮政愿意免费运输，但按规定，必须百分百实名、百分百开箱验货、百分百X光检测。
The postal service is willing to transport the goods free of charge, but according to regulations, 100% real name, 100% open box and 100% x-ray test are required.
考虑到拆了之后，可能会污染破损，甚至有遗漏风险，捐赠方并不同意拆包检查，要求原包装送到协和医院。
Considering the risk of contamination breakage or even leakage after demolition, the donor did not agree to the unpacking inspection and requested that the original packaging be sent to Concorde Hospital.
最后的结果是邮政特事特办，开了绿色通道。
The final result is the special postal service, opened the green channel.
但整个的沟通过程，并非一人之力可以完成。
But the whole communication process can not be accomplished by one person.
在黎文全看来，协调至关重要。
For Le Van Quen, coordination is essential.
尤其是体制内的单位，需要逐级上报。
In particular, units within the system need to be reported on a cascade basis.
好在群策群力的结果是好的。
Fortunately, the results of teamwork are good.
物资通关后，是否专车送达武汉也曾有过争议。
After clearing the goods, whether the special bus to Wuhan has also been disputed.
有人认为，一定要专车送。
Some people believe that it is necessary to special bus delivery.
但现实情况是，只运一两吨货，专车过去并不划算。
But the reality is that with just a tonne or two shipped, it wasn't cost-effective in the past.
况且司机去了之后，还要隔离14天。
Besides, the chauffeur is in quarantine for another 14 days.
最终，1月30日晚上10点，一辆邮政EMS货车，从广州启程前往武汉。
Eventually, at 10 p.m. on January 30, a postal EMS van left Guangzhou for Wuhan.
1月31日下午，这批物资成功送达武汉协和的医生护士手中。
On the afternoon of January 31, the supplies were delivered to doctors and nurses in Wuhan Concorde.
至此，一场跨越太平洋的接力，才算画上句号。
At this point, a relay across the Pacific Ocean is the end of the painting.
△图片来源：中国民航网采购与物流，困难重重华科和武大校友会的越洋接力，是各类民间组织参与援助武汉的一个缩影。
www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn)
新冠疫情爆发后不久，很多积极援助的国内基金会就发现，国内市场上很快就采购不到急需的医疗物资了。
Soon after the outbreak of the new crown, many activist domestic foundations found that much-needed medical supplies were soon unavailable on the domestic market.
而据国家工信部此前的统计，全国医用口罩的最大产能是每天2000万只，防护服每天不到1万件。
According to the Ministry of Industry and Communications, the country's maximum capacity for medical masks is 20 million a day, protective clothing less than 10,000 pieces a day.
武汉大学北京校友会医学分会秘书长李大林此前接受《人物》采访时表示，他们曾经照着一本全国医疗用品采购目录，几乎给上面的每一家企业都打了电话，几天下来得到的反馈是，绝大多数都已经和政府对接上了，能够卖给他们的物资不到总产量的10%。
Li Dalin, secretary-general of the medical section of Wuhan University's Beijing Alumni Association, told People that they had called almost every company in the country according to a nationwide catalogue of medical supplies, and over the past few days had received feedback that the vast majority had been linked to the government and were able to sell less than 10 per cent of their output.
一些手上屯着货的经销商则更难争取。
Some dealers with goods in stock are harder to fight for.
李大林碰到过一个卖N95口罩的商人，市场价6块钱的东西，他报价70块。
Li had met a businessman who sold N95 masks for $6, and he was offering them for $70.
“他们都是个人经营，不会管你是不是援助前线的医院，反正你不要，有的是人要。
"They're all personal and don't care if you're a frontline hospital or not, you don't want anyone else.
”国内很多公益组织，不得不纷纷到海外扫货。
Many public-interest groups in China have had to sweep their wares overseas.
华夏公益第一时间成立了全球物资小组，这家机构总部在杭州，而浙江有大量华侨资源，就把分散在全球各地的华侨志愿者都组织了起来。
The Global Materials Group was first set up by the Chinese Community, which is headquartered in Hangzhou, while Zhejiang has a large number of overseas Chinese resources, thus organizing volunteers from overseas Chinese scattered all over the world.
随后又成立进口医疗器械商小组和医疗器械鉴别小组，在微信群里协助海外华侨采购符合要求的医疗物资。
Subsequently, an import medical device dealer group and a medical device identification team were set up to assist overseas Chinese in purchasing the required medical materials in the micro-letter group.
但这些还不够，于是又纳入义乌国际电商平台以及全球各国的浙江商会。
But these are not enough, so they include Yiwu International Electronic Commerce Platform and Zhejiang Chamber of Commerce all over the world.
动员了各方力量，才采购到20万只N95口罩、100万只医用外科口罩、5万套防护服等急需物资。
Efforts were mobilized to procure urgently needed supplies such as 200,000 N95 masks, 1 million medical surgical masks and 50,000 sets of protective clothing.
海外采购的最大难点在于通关。
The biggest difficulty in overseas purchasing is customs clearance.
浙江省慈善联合总会副秘书长、华夏公益负责人郑壹零告诉八点健闻，华夏公益在各个流程节点上都能聚集上百人来支持，但通关是一个半官方的小组负责，目前只有四个人在运作。
Zheng Jian, deputy secretary-general of Zhejiang Philanthropy General Association and head of Chinese public welfare, told Eight Jiangnan that Huaxia pro bono can gather hundreds of people to support it at each process point, but customs clearance is the responsibility of a semi-official group, only four people are currently operating.
“每晚通关要忙到凌晨2点，虽然是薄弱环节，但已经是没日没夜的在那里帮忙。
"Customs clearance every night until 2 a.m., although the weak link, but has been there day and night to help.
”由于传染病防控对交通运输有限制，物资运送也困难重重。
Transportation is also difficult because of restrictions on transport caused by infectious diseases.
周俊（化名）是一家外资医疗器械公司在湖北的负责人。
Zhou Jun (alias) is the director of a foreign medical device company in Hubei.
1月23日武汉“封城”以后，被隔离在家的他在网上看到一家海外基金公司希望给武汉十多家定点医院捐赠物资的消息，当时，对方已经采购了价值100多万元的口罩、防护服等医疗用品，正发愁如何在武汉分发。
After the city was closed on January 23 in Wuhan, he saw on the Internet the news that an overseas fund company was hoping to donate materials to more than a dozen designated hospitals in Wuhan, where he was worried about distributing medical supplies such as masks and protective clothing worth more than one million yuan.
靠着长期积累的人脉，周俊为这家基金会找到了一家武汉当地的医药公司，顺利承接下从机场运回物资并且分发到各家医院的任务，因为医药公司本身就有GSP（药品经营质量管理规范）认证的仓库，以及人力和运输车辆，事情完成得很顺利。
Based on his long-standing contacts, Zhou Junjun found a local Wuhan pharmaceutical company for the foundation, which successfully took over the delivery of materials from the airport and distributed them to hospitals, as the pharmaceutical company itself had a warehouse certified by the GSP, as well as manpower and transport vehicles, and things went well.
因为这件事颇有成就感的周俊，干脆做起志愿者，专门负责对接各个民间公益组织向湖北捐赠的物资。
Because of this matter quite a sense of achievement Zhou Jun, simply become a volunteer, specially responsible for docking various non-governmental public welfare organizations donated materials to Hubei.
由他经手的最大一笔物资，是来自安徽一家化工企业的500多吨高浓度双氧水。
The biggest item he handled was more than 500 tons of high-concentration hydrogen peroxide from a chemical company in Anhui province.
他把这些货源分发到了武汉、孝感、黄冈、恩施、荆门等十多个城市的医院、学校和社区。
He distributed these supplies to hospitals, schools and communities in more than a dozen cities, including Wuhan, Xiaogan, Huanggang, Enshi and Jingmen.
“我自己是做医疗的，高浓度双氧水在医院很有用，稀释了以后也可以用在城市的环境消杀。
"I do my own medicine. High concentrations of hydrogen peroxide are useful in hospitals and diluted to be used in urban environments.
”武汉新冠疫情扩散以来，武汉红十字会等组织的低效运转，严重拖慢了物资的供应节奏，给一线医护人员带来了不必要的困扰。
The inefficient operation of Wuhan Red Cross and other organizations since the spread of the new crown in Wuhan has seriously slowed the supply of materials and caused unnecessary distress to front-line medical staff.
“其实完全可以走民间公益组织这条路。
"In fact, we can take the road of non-governmental organizations.
”周俊告诉八点健闻，民间公益组织的捐赠有两种模式，一种是只负责筹款和物资采购，把东西给到当地的红十字会或者慈善总会，由他们来完成最后一公里的分发；另一种则是民间公益组织全程包办，但需要在红会或者慈善总会登记备案。
Zhou told the reporters that there were two models for donations from non-governmental organizations, one being fund-raising and material purchases, the other giving to the local Red Cross or the General Charity Association to complete the last kilometre of distribution, and the other to non-governmental organizations, which are required to register with the Red Cross or the General Charity Federation.
“现在越来越多的民间组织都选择第二种模式。
"More and more civil society organizations are opting for the second model.
”周俊说，他现在的工作就是在这种模式下，为民间物资寻找在湖北当地有运输能力的组织，比如说医疗物资流通企业，比如说救援队，让他们从机场或者高速路口，把东西运到市区做分发。
Zhou said his job now is to find organizations with local transportation capacity for civilian goods in Hubei, such as medical supplies, such as rescue teams, to take things from airports or high-speed junctions to urban areas for distribution.
“最多一天半的时间，肯定能送到医院手上。
"A day and a half at the most, definitely to the hospital.
”作为国内最大的民间公益组织之一，壹基金采取的也是在红会登记备案的模式。
As one of the largest civil society organizations in the country, One Foundation has adopted a model of registration with the Red Cross.
从壹基金官网可以看到，壹基金支援武汉市的物资主要由武汉云豹救援队负责协调发放，湖北省内其他地区的发放，由壹基金联合救灾项目在湖北的40多家机构一起行动。
As you can see from the official website of the One Fund, the materials supporting Wuhan city are mainly distributed by Wuhan Yun Leopard Rescue Team. The distribution of other areas in Hubei Province is coordinated by a joint fund relief project involving more than 40 agencies in Hubei Province.
2月1日，壹基金向湖北各州市发放口罩157000个，防护镜12800个。
On February 1, the One Fund distributed 157,000 masks and 12,800 protective goggles to Hubei provinces and municipalities.
同日运抵的还有990台对讲机和500套防护服，按计划也将于次日陆续送到医院。
Also arriving on the same day were 990 walkie-talkies and 500 suits, which were scheduled to be delivered to hospitals the following day.
“我们现在有好几个人同时在协调这些物资的匹配。
"We now have several people who are co-ordinating the match.
”周俊说，自己参与多个基金会的物资调配，这几天已经加了上百个群，群里是有捐赠意向的公司或者个人，他们负责沟通资方能够提供什么，并且匹配到有需要的医院。
Zhou said he was involved in the deployment of materials from several foundations, which have grown in the past few days to hundreds of groups of potential donors who communicate what management can offer and match hospitals in need.
“每天只能睡3、4个小时，信息多得看不过来，好几个捐赠人连真名都不知道，因为来不及改备注。
"Only 3 or 4 hours of sleep a day, information too much to see, several donors do not even know the real name, because there is no time to change the remarks.
”武汉周边城市更难最近几天，因为疫情蔓延，交通管制随之升级，周俊明显感到，能够调配的运力越来越紧张。
Wuhan's surrounding cities have become more difficult in recent days, as the epidemic spreads and traffic control escalates, making it clear to Zhou that the capacity to deploy is increasingly tight.
“前几天，有一家国外撤侨的飞机，带过来一些医用物资。
"A few days ago, there was an overseas evacuation of the aircraft, brought some medical supplies.
我光是协调让这些物资能够从机场运到市区，就花了一个多小时。
It took me more than an hour to coordinate the delivery of these supplies from the airport to the city.
”周俊说，现在武汉全市的大车资源都很紧张，更别提能开大车的司机了。
"Wuhan is now a city with very limited resources, not to mention drivers who can drive big cars," Zhou said.
按照规定，只要是往周边地市送过物资的司机，回来之后就要被隔离14天，这意味着每跑一趟长途，就少一个司机。
As a rule, drivers who bring supplies to neighbouring cities are kept in quarantine for 14 days upon their return, meaning that for every long trip, there is one less driver.
另外，随着外界捐赠物资的数量越来越多，诸如顺丰、德邦、京东这样的大型物流公司已经加入政府组织的公益运输当中，很难再兼顾民间这一头。
In addition, with the increasing number of donations, large logistics companies such as Shunfeng, De Pont and Jingdong have joined the public service transportation organized by the government, which makes it difficult to balance the private sector.
周俊还讲了前几天的另一个例子。
Zhou Jun also gave another example from the previous few days.
武汉一个企业家找到他，希望协调帮助运一批物资到恩施。
Wuhan, an entrepreneur to find him, hope to coordinate to help transport a batch of goods to Enshi.
预定的方案是，在武汉找辆车把东西运到高速口，让恩施那边派车来交接。
The plan is to find a car in Wuhan to take things to the highway and have Enshi send someone to hand it over.
结果恩施来的车在高速口等了4个小时，他们还没有协调到能把东西运出去的大车。
As a result, Enshi's car waited at the highway for four hours, and they did not coordinate with the carts that could carry things out.
当时，周俊急哭了。
At that time, Zhou Junjun cried.
绝大多数的新闻报道中，武汉都是此次疫情的中心，所以国内外的物资，都源源不断地发往武汉。
Wuhan is the epicentre of this epidemic in most news reports, so domestic and foreign materials are continuously sent to Wuhan.
但事实上，武汉周边的黄冈、孝感、襄阳在“封城”以前，承接了大量武汉外溢的人口，在目前的新冠确诊人数上，这3个地市排在武汉以外的前几位，加起来超过了3000人。
But in fact, Wuhan surrounding Huanggang, Xiaogan, Xiangyang before the "closure", to take over a large number of Wuhan overflow of the population, the current number of confirmed in the new crown, these three cities outside Wuhan, the three cities together more than 3,000 people.
这些地方对医用物资的需求，甚至比武汉更为迫切。
The need for medical supplies in these places is even more pressing than in Wuhan.
湖北襄阳一家医院的院长告诉八点健闻，从收治新冠病人到现在，医院的储备已经差不多枯竭，连消毒液都只剩一天的用量。
The director of a hospital in Xiangyang, Hubei Province, told Eight Jiangnan that since the admission of new patients to the hospital has almost exhausted, even the use of disinfectant only one day.
“但即便是什么防护都没了，病人来了也还得上，这是命令，也是天职。
"But even if there is no protection, the patient will have to come, it is an order and a duty.
”周俊表示，“我们现在的想法就是，希望这些地市的指挥部能够出面协调一下，比如说可以整合当地的医药物流公司，让他们去武汉拖物资回来，当然前提是征得红会的同意。
"What we're thinking is that we want the local headquarters to co-ordinate, say, integrating the local pharmaceutical and logistics companies and sending them back to Wuhan, subject of course to the consent of the ICRC," said Mr Zhou.
”一方有难八方支援，民间力量怎么用？从1月23日武汉“封城”算起，这场对抗新疫情的战役已经持续了十余天。
From the January 23 "closure" of Wuhan, the battle against the new outbreak has lasted for more than a decade.
这场战役开始以来，有权接收捐赠物资的湖北省与武汉市红十字会，却没能完成好为前线医护人员输送资源的任务，备受舆论压力。
Since the beginning of the campaign, the Red Cross Societies in Hubei and Wuhan, which have the right to receive donations, have been under public pressure for failing to fulfill their task of channelling resources to frontline medical personnel.
另一方面，由于当地红会等机构垄断了物资接收，使得一些民间组织在援助过程中处处受限。
On the other hand, the monopolization of goods by institutions such as the local Red Cross has limited the access of some civil society organizations to assistance.
一位公益基金会的工作人员透露，他曾经协调过一次捐赠，公司包了辆车把物资送到了指定的医院，但由于没法提供红十字会开具的资质证明，证明车上的医用物资符合捐赠条件，医院领导始终不敢接收，最后公司负责人只好掉头离开。
A staff member of the Pro Bono Foundation revealed that he had coordinated a donation and that the company had contracted a vehicle to deliver the goods to the designated hospital, but the director of the company turned away because it was not possible to provide a certificate from the Red Cross certifying that the medical supplies were eligible for donation.
对此，北京师范大学公益慈善与非营利法治研究中心主任马剑银在接受《三联生活周刊》采访时表示，理论上，由红十字会牵头可以实现更好的捐赠效率，而个人或企业的点对点捐赠是一种效率更低的捐赠方式。
Ma Jianyin, director of the pro bono charity and non-profit rule of law research center at Beijing Normal University, told Triple Life Weekly that, in theory, the Red Cross could lead to better donation efficiency, while point-to-point giving by individuals or businesses is a less efficient way to donate.
“然而这一次，无论是捐赠者还是医院，都对物资的协调和调配效率并不满意。
"This time, however, neither donors nor hospitals were satisfied with the efficiency of the coordination and deployment of supplies.
”郑壹零认为，疫情或者灾难面前，官方、半官方与民间的力量应该能够齐头并进，三方各自发挥专长。
Zheng believed that in the face of an epidemic or disaster, official, semi-official and civil forces should be able to go hand in hand, each bringing its expertise to bear.
他以2014年的雅安地震为例，当时地方政府联合了慈善总会、红会这些半官方组织，以及积极参与的民间基金会组织，三方共同成了一个社会组织服务中心，使得赈灾工作十分顺利。
He cited the 2014 Ya'an earthquake, when local governments joined forces with the General Association of Charities, the Red Cross as parastatal organizations, and active civic foundation organizations to form a service center for social organizations, making the relief effort smooth.
服务中心就是提供一条龙服务的平台，共享物资需求的动态信息，然后让民间力量能在此基础上实现点对点的服务。
Service center is to provide one-stop service platform, share the dynamic information of material demand, and then let the civil power realize point-to-point service on the basis of it.
民间基金会最担心的就是类似于此次红会的忙乱无措。
The biggest worry for private foundations is the kind of hustle and bustle of the Red Cross.
点对点，才能让基金会在交付物资之后，及时向捐赠人作出交代。
Point to point, so that the Foundation in the delivery of goods, timely accountability to donors.
这一次的困局在舆论升温后出现转机。
This time the dilemma turned around in the wake of rising public opinion.
2月1日，武汉市政府官网发布《武汉市红十字会感谢各界爱心答复各方疑问》：为进一步缩短捐赠物资的运转时间，武汉市红十字会对定向捐赠流程作出适当调整，境内外单位或个人如有定向捐赠医院，可直接与定向捐赠医疗机构对接，确认后可直接将物资发往受捐单位。
In order to further shorten the operation time of donated materials, the Wuhan Red Cross Society has made appropriate adjustments to the targeted donation process. Units or individuals inside or outside the country who have a targeted donation hospital may dock directly with the designated donor medical institution, confirming that the materials can be sent directly to the recipient unit.
如需捐赠凭证，后期可凭受捐单位相关证明到红十字会办理捐赠手续。
If donation voucher is needed, the donation certificate can be presented to the Red Cross for donation later.
同一天，武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部指派九州通医药集团协助红十字会分装物资。
On the same day, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control Command assigned Kyushu Tong Pharmaceutical Group to assist the Red Cross sub-loading.
截至发稿前，九州通已经完成了紧急物资的分装入库，分类码放。
By the time the draft, Kyushu has completed the emergency material restocking, classification code.
“这是我这几天来听到的最好的消息，政府终于能够启用民间的专业力量，而不是把宝全都压在只有十几个人的红十字会身上。
"This is the best news I've heard in the last few days that the government has finally been able to tap into the expertise of civil society rather than focusing on the Red Cross, which has only a dozen people.
”周俊如是说。
"said Zhou Jun.
马剑银也觉得这是更好的办法，“在这样的特殊时期，其实不应该按照思维惯性将捐赠物资的接收任务限定于某几家机构，可以考虑特事特办，整合进社会力量，开放民间通道。
"In such a special period of time, we should not restrict the task of receiving donated materials to a few institutions according to the mental inertia. We can consider special agencies, integrate social forces and open up private channels.
”毛晓琼谭卓瞾吴靖|撰稿刘冉 季敏华|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Mao Xiaoqiong Tam Ju Jing Wu Jing & # 124; Writing by Liu Ran Minhua & # 44; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉物资紧缺，民间力量把援助送进医院到底有多难？。
Wuhan is in short supply, how difficult is it for civilian forces to send aid to hospitals?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉物资紧缺，民间力量把援助送进医院到底有多难？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "公益组织可选择不进红会仓库，援助物资直送医院";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
