火神山医院今天开始接收患者，院长是SARS防治专家。
Mount Fujimori Hospital is receiving patients today. The director is a SARS prevention specialist.
健闻吴晔婷。
Nicknamed Wu selected.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
拥有1000张床位的火神山医院今天开始接收病人，主要救治确诊患者。
The 1,000-bed Mount Huoshen Hospital began accepting patients today, mainly to treat confirmed patients.
1400位来自军队的医护人员已经抵达，院长张思兵大校是SARS防治专家。
More than 1,400 medical personnel from the army have arrived, and Dean Major Zhang Sibing is a SARS prevention specialist.
拥有1600张床位的雷神山医院预计2月5日完工。
The 1,600-bed Raytheon Hill Hospital is scheduled to be completed by February 5.
两家医院投入使用一定程度上能缓解武汉当前新冠肺炎患者就医难的困境，也有助于减少恐慌情绪。
To some extent, the two hospitals can alleviate the plight of Wuhan patients with new crown pneumonia, and also help to reduce panic.
临危受命的武汉火神山新冠肺炎专科医院，今天就要开始接收病人了，主要救治确诊患者。
Wuhan under the mandate of the special hospital for fire-god mountain pneumonia, today will begin to receive patients, the main treatment of confirmed patients.
火神山医院共1000张床位，1月24日动工，到昨天（2月2日）正式交付，历时10天，前后7500名左右建设者参与，工地的24小时直播页面超过8000万人次观看。
The 1,000-bed Mount Huoshen Hospital started construction on January 24 and was officially delivered yesterday (February 2). It lasted 10 days and involved about 7,500 builders.
昨天上午，950位从联勤保障部队所属医院抽调的医护人员，从沈阳、兰州、南京、广州四地分别出发抵达武汉，和已支援武汉近10天、第一批抵达的来自陆军军医大学、海军军医大学、空军军医大学的450位医护人员一起，组成一个包含1400人的医疗团队，承担火神山医院的医疗救治任务。
Yesterday morning, 950 medical personnel drawn from the hospitals affiliated with the PLA arrived in Wuhan from Shenyang, Lanzhou, Nanjing and Guangzhou. Together with 450 medical personnel from the Army Medical University, the Naval Military University and the Air Force Medical University who arrived in Wuhan for the past 10 days, a medical team of 1,400 people was formed to take charge of medical treatment at the Mount Fire Hospital.
院长张思兵大校昨天也已亮相，此前是解放军总医院（301医院）卫勤部部长，公开资料显示，他出生于1969年，曾参加过2003年抗击SARS、援建小汤山医院等重大任务。
The dean, Major Zhang Sibing, also made a public appearance yesterday after serving as secretary of the PLA General Hospital (301 Hospital). He was born in 1969 and was involved in major tasks such as fighting SARS in 2003 and helping build Xiaotangshan Hospital.
。
.
△资料图张思兵发表过多篇关于SARS防治的论文，例如《SARS诊断、出院标准和医院收治策略研究》、《严重急性呼吸综合征的医学防护》等等，其中第二篇他是第三作者，而第四作者正是北京小汤山医院院长张雁灵。
He has published several papers on SARS prevention and treatment, such as SARS Diagnosis, Discharge Standards and Hospital Admission Strategies, Medical Protection for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, of which he is the third author and the fourth is Zhang Yanling, director of the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital.
火神山以及预计2月5日完工的雷神山医院，被称为武汉的“小汤山”。
Flamingo Hill and the expected completion of the February 5 Lui Shenshan Hospital, known as Wuhan "Xiaotangshan."
小汤山医院接收了680名非典病人，其中672人康复出院，参与治疗和护理的1383名医护人员没有一人被感染，被认为是北京SARS防治的转折点。
Xiaotangshan Hospital received 680 SARS patients, of whom 672 were discharged and 672 were rehabilitated. None of the 1,383 medical personnel involved in treatment and care were infected, which is considered a turning point in the fight against SARS in Beijing.
小汤山医院建立之时，正是北京SARS疫情最紧张的时候，医院全线告急，病床缺口1500到2000张。
When Xiaotangshan Hospital was established, it was at the height of the SARS epidemic in Beijing that the hospital was in a critical condition, with a shortage of 1,500 to 2,000 beds.
张雁灵后来说，“当时给我的感觉是很可怕，病人已经多到了没有地方容纳的地步，甚至治疗病人的医生也在不断倒下。
"I felt terrible at the time," Zhang said later. "The number of patients was so high that there was no room for them, and even the doctors who treated them continued to fall.
”此时的武汉，同样告急，八点健闻两天前的文章《未确诊新冠病例：隐藏在统计数字背后的生命故事》中，介绍了患者面临着确诊难、入院难的困境。
Wuhan, meanwhile, is also in a hurry, with an eight-point-eight article "Undiagnosed New Crown Cases: A Story of Life Hidden Behind the Statistics," describing the difficulties patients face in getting diagnosed and hospitalized.
截至昨天下午，当时采访的几位患者，只有一位已经入院，其他人都还在等待中。
As of yesterday afternoon, only one of the patients interviewed had been admitted to the hospital and the others were still waiting.
目前武汉开放的三批定点医院床位数一共6754张，2月2日提出将改造开放的两批定点医院能够新增2183张床位，加上火神山的1000张，雷神山1600张床位，困境能够在一定程度上得到缓解。
At present, the number of beds in the three designated hospitals in Wuhan is 6,754, and the situation can be alleviated to some extent with the addition of 2,183 beds in the two designated hospitals, plus 1,000 in Fosen Mountain and 1,600 in Raytheon Mountain.
而曾任小汤山医院重症监护室主任、现任上海市第四人民医院院长熊利泽接受《新民周刊》采访时认为，临时医院启用后更重要的作用是提高治愈率、降低死亡率，减少社会恐慌情绪。
In an interview with Xinmin Weekly, Xiong Lize, director of the intensive care unit of Xiaotangshan Hospital and now head of the Shanghai Fourth People's Hospital, said the more important role of the temporary hospital was to improve cure rates, reduce mortality and reduce social panic.
。
.
△来源：央视频截图十天时间，如何建成一座医院和小汤山不一样，“火神山”“雷神山”两所应急医院的命名并非直接来源于地名，而是被赋予了特殊意义。
2007-9-24 16: 48 How to Build a Hospital Unlike Xiaotangshan, the names of the two emergency hospitals, Mount Fire and Mount Raytheon, were given special significance instead of being derived directly from geographical names.
湖北乃古楚之地，在楚文化传说中，楚国人被认为是火神祝融的后代。
Hubei is a land of ancient Chu. In Chu culture, Chu people are regarded as descendants of the god of fire.
人的肺部五行属金，火克金，而荼毒人类肺部的新型冠状病毒惧怕高温，火神正好能驱瘟神，于是“火神山”之名应运而生。
The five elements of the lungs are gold and fire. The coronavirus, which destroys the human lungs, fears the heat. The god of fire can repel the plague, so the name Mount of Fire came into being.
过去的10个昼夜里，建设者们分两班轮换，在相当于7个足球场大小的工地上不断赶工。
For the past 10 days and nights, builders have rotated in two shifts, working on a site the size of seven football fields.
与抗疫的紧张情绪并存的，是观看视频直播的网友们给建筑工地上叉车（叉酱）、挖掘机（小小黄）、水泥泵机（呕泥酱）等起的萌系名字和加油助威。
Along with the nervousness of fighting the epidemic, netizens watching the live video feed gave germination names and encouragement to forklifts (forklifts), excavators (small yellows) and cement pumps (vomit sauce) on construction sites.
。
.
△来源：央视频截图火神山建设时间轴：1月23日下午，武汉市城建局紧急开会，要求参照2003年抗击“非典”期间北京小汤山医院模式建设一座专门医院；1月24日，除夕，第1天，完成相关设计方案，上百台挖机抵达现场，开始土地平整；1月25日，大年初一，第2天，正式开工；1月26日，大年初二，第3天，第一间样板房建成；1月27日，大年初三，第4天，场地整平、碎石黄沙回填全部完成；首批箱式集装箱板房吊装搭建；1月28日，大年初四，第5天，双层病房区钢结构初具规模；1月29日，大年初五，第6天，300多个箱式板房骨架安装完成；机电管线作业同步展开；1月30日，大年初六，第7天，防渗膜铺设全面完成；污水处理间设备吊装同步展开；1月31日，大年初七，第8天，9成集装箱的拼装均已完成；活动板房骨架安装3000平方米；2月1日，大年初八，第9天，全面展开医疗配套设备安装；2月2日，大年初九，第10天，交付。
January 29, the year of the first day of the year, the first day of the day, complete the installation of medical equipment, January 26, the first day of the new year, the first day of the first day of January 27, January 26, about the second day of the year, the first day of January 27, the year of February 27, the tenth day, delivery.
Play医院内部设施十天抢建出来的医院，内部环境究竟如何？跟着昨天下午央视直播的镜头可以去看看。
Play Hospital internal facilities built 10 days, the internal environment after all? Following yesterday afternoon's CCTV footage can go to see.
。
.
每间病房内有两张病床，病床旁有柜子和医疗设备。
Each ward has two beds, a cupboard next to the bed and medical equipment.
。
.
氧气管道是重要的基础设施。
Oxygen pipelines are an important infrastructure.
。
.
空调及通风管道，保障输送到房间的空气已经过净化；且每个房间配有一台空气净化机。
Air conditioning and ventilation to ensure that the air delivered to the room has been purified; and each room is equipped with an air purifier.
。
.
传染病房特有的隔离传递舱，用于医疗物资、药品和食品的传递，传递舱内有紫外线系统消毒，避免感染。
Infectious disease room-specific isolation module, used for the delivery of medical supplies, drugs and food, the transmission module has ultraviolet system disinfection, to avoid infection.
。
.
每个病房配有独立卫生间，卫生间内配备有热水器、马桶、洗手池等基本用品。
Each ward is equipped with a separate toilet, bathroom equipped with water heater, toilet, sink and other basic supplies.
。
.
病房也安装了电视机。
Television sets have also been installed in wards.
。
.
病区走廊安装有消毒灯。
Disinfection lights are installed in the corridors of the affected areas.
。
.
医疗废水排向哪里是个重要的问题，对于传染病医院而言，这更是防疫的关键。
Where medical waste water is discharged is an important issue, which is the key to epidemic prevention in hospitals for infectious diseases.
此前，中信建筑设计研究总院有限公司副总建筑师、火神山设计总负责人汤群接受八点健闻专访时表示，火神山医院采取了雨水全收集消毒处理和全基地铺设防渗膜的技术措施。
Earlier, Tangqun, deputy chief architect of CITIC Architectural Design Research Institute Limited and chief design officer of Mount Fukuyama, said in an interview with Mr. Tang, chief design officer of Mount Huoshen, that the hospital had taken technical measures to collect and disinfect all rainwater and lay seepage-proof membranes.
5万平方米的建设用地采用防渗膜全覆盖，污水接触消毒4小时后排入城市管网，场地雨水则通过专门系统全面收集，消毒半小时后排入城市管网，医疗垃圾按照环保部门的相关规定进行专门处置。
Fifty thousand square meters of construction land is fully covered with impermeable film, four hours after the sewage contact disinfection is discharged into the urban water network, and the field rainwater is collected through a special system. After half an hour of disinfection, it is discharged into the urban water network.
△ 中信建筑设计研究总院供图作为传染病隔离治疗医院，火神山医院对于防护隔离的要求极高。
Zhongxin Architecture Design Research Institute supply diagram as a hospital for the isolation and treatment of infectious diseases, the fire Shenshan Hospital for the protection of the high requirements.
汤群介绍称，通过设置清洁区、半污染区、污染区及医护人员专用通道和病人通道的布置方式，以及相对应的零压清洁空间到负压病房的通风系统，避免交叉感染。
Tang said that by setting up clean areas, semi-polluted areas, contaminated areas, special passages for medical staff and patient passageways, and the corresponding zero-pressure cleaning space to ventilation systems in negative pressure wards to avoid cross-infection, Tang said.
医护人员进出病区设置包括风淋在内的专用卫生通过设施，最大限度地保护医护人员的健康安全。
Medical personnel enter and leave the sick area to set up special sanitary passage facilities, including the wind shower, to protect the health and safety of medical personnel to the greatest extent.
院长是SARS防治专家据中华口腔医学会官网消息，火神山医院院长张思兵是口腔医学出身的医疗保健管理专家，毕业于原第四军医大学88级口腔系，历任原309医院口腔科医师、解放军总医院医疗处处长、解放军总医院海南分院医务部主任、解放军总医院卫勤部部长等职等职。
Zhang Sibing, former director of the 88-grade oral medicine department of the former 4th Military Medical University, has been the 309 former hospital stomatologists, the Chief of the General Hospital of the Liberation Army, the Hainan Branch of the PLA General Hospital, and the Secretary for Health of the PLA General Hospital.
张思兵曾参与抗击SARS，发表了多篇关于SARS的论文，主要探讨SARS定点医院提高治愈率、降低死亡率、争取“ 零” 感染的综合策略。
Zhang Sibing has participated in the fight against SARS, published a number of papers on SARS, focusing on SARS designated hospitals to improve cure rates, reduce mortality, and strive for "zero" infection comprehensive strategy.
除了小汤山医院的成绩，他和张雁灵等作者合作的《严重急性呼吸综合征的医学防护》中，还提到：（2003年）解放军309 医院 3 个月收治 202 例SARS 患者, 发热门诊收治 2500 余例发热病人,有 248 名医务人员轮流工作在防“非典”一线,均未感染SARS 。
In addition to the achievements of Xiaotangshan Hospital, he and Zhang Yanling and other authors of the "Medical Protection of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome" also mentioned: (2003) 309 hospitals treated 202 SARS patients, fever clinics treated more than 2,500 cases of fever patients, 248 medical staff rotated on the SARS prevention line, and did not contract SARS.
。
.
△来源：央视频截图1400名医护人员已就位据空军新闻，2月2日凌晨，空军出动8架大型运输机，先后从某军用机场起飞，凌晨4时陆续抵达沈阳、兰州、广州、南京等地，开始装载795名军队医疗队队员和58吨物资，之后再次升空飞赴武汉。
The Air Force flew eight large transport aircraft to take off from a military airport in the early hours of February 2 and arrived in Shenyang, Lanzhou, Guangzhou and Nanjing at 4 a.m., carrying 795 members of the PLA medical team and 58 tons of supplies.
上午8时55分开始，8架大型运输机每间隔5分钟依次降落在武汉天河机场。
Beginning at 8.55 a.m., eight large transport aircraft landed at Wuhan Tianhe Airport at five-minute intervals.
中午，军队筹组医疗力量全部到位。
At noon, the army assembled medical forces in place.
。
.
△来源：央视频截图火神山医院开设重症监护病区、重症病区、普通病区，设置感染控制、检验、特诊、放射诊断等辅助科室。
Source: Central video screenshot of Fosen Mountain Hospital, set up intensive care area, severe disease area, common disease area, set up infection control, examination, special consultation, radiologic diagnosis and other auxiliary departments.
无锡联勤保障中心卫勤处处长沈烈在接受央视采访时表示，和以往不同的是，这次除了医疗、护理人员，还抽组了管理、信息和勤务保障人员，以满足新医院的运行要求。
In an interview with CCTV, Shen Lie, chief of the medical service at Wuxi Lianqin Support Center, told CCTV that unlike in the past, management, information and support staff were also drawn from among the medical and nursing staff to meet the operational requirements of the new hospital.
出发之前，医疗队已经进行了三天的全封闭式管理培训，建立了行政管理、医疗救护、个人防护、后勤保障四个方面28个方案，并邀请了呼吸、传染、重症医学的专家进行授课。
Prior to departure, the medical team had completed three days of full-closed management training, established 28 programmes in administration, medical assistance, personal protection and logistics, and invited specialists in respiratory, infectious and severe medicine to give lectures.
除了来自军区不同医疗机构的1400名医护人员，解放军疾病预防控制中心、军事科学院军事医学研究院还抽出15名专家组成联合专家组，现地指导医院疫情防控工作。
The PLA Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Institute of Military Medicine of the Academy of Military Sciences have drawn up a joint group of 15 experts, in addition to 1,400 medical personnel from different medical institutions in the military region.
医护人员中，有不少人曾参加小汤山医院抗击非典任务以及援助塞拉利昂、利比里亚抗击埃博拉疫情任务，具有丰富的传染病救治经验。
Many of the medical staff have had extensive experience in the fight against SARS in Xiaotangshan Hospital and in the fight against Ebola in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
小汤山的奇迹能否再现小汤山建设于北京SARS最紧张之时，后来也成为了SARS防治的转折点。
Whether the miracle of Xiaotangshan can reproduce the construction of Xiaotangshan in Beijing SARS at the most intense time, has become a turning point in SARS prevention and treatment.
张雁灵在《回望小汤山》中说：“有专家断言，如果没有小汤山医院，北京至少还要增加2000至3000名非典病人，至少还要再死200人以上”。
"Some experts assert that without Xiaotangshan Hospital, Beijing would have at least 2,000 to 3,000 more SARS patients dead and at least 200 more dead," Zhang Yanling said in "Looking back at Xiaotangshan.
。
.
△图片来源：《回望小汤山》截图17年后，火神山向小汤山学习了不少经验。
2007-9-25 21: 48 After 17 years of looking back at Xiaotangshan, Mount Fukuyama has learned a lot from this experience.
张雁灵受邀担任专科医院专家顾问，在他看来，火神山医院、雷神山医院建设的规模质量、设计的科学合理性以及设备的配备都优于、高于小汤山。
Zhang Yanling was invited to serve as expert consultant of the specialized hospital. In his opinion, the scale quality, scientific rationality of the design and the equipment are superior to and higher than that of Xiaotangshan.
中信建筑设计研究总院建筑师田怡告诉八点健闻，小汤山医院的大病区是分开独立的，要从一个区到另一个区只能从户外穿行，且病人通道都直接对外，没有封闭。
Tian Yi, architect at CITIC Architectural Research Institute, told Mr Tian that the big-illness area of Xiaotangshan Hospital was separate and could only travel outdoors from one district to another, and that the patient passageways were open and unsealed.
火神山医院则根据小汤山医院和武汉医疗专家组的意见，将医护流线和病人流线都在室内，同时又分别隔离。
The hospital, based on advice from Xiaotangshan Hospital and Wuhan Medical Expert Group, kept both the hospital streamline and the patient streamline indoors while secluded.
医护人员通过建筑中的医护清洁走道可以到达每一个病区，不需要达到室外，更有效地保护了医护人员的安全。
Health-care workers can reach every area of the building through the medical and cleaning walkway, which does not need to be outside, thus protecting the health care workers more effectively.
而且火神山的病房使用了17年前还没有的集装箱房。
And the fire god mountain ward uses container rooms that did not exist 17 years ago.
如今，新冠肺炎的确诊病例数已经超过当年的SARS，火神山医院被予以厚望。
Today, the number of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia has exceeded the number of SARS in that year, Huoshen Mountain Hospital is high hopes.
为什么在核心疫区武汉必须建火神山、雷神山医院？据《长江日报》报道，张雁灵谈到了四点：第一，当务之急是缓解当前病人多，现有医院过载，收不进院的问题。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, must build a mountain of fire and a hospital in Raytheon Mountain, according to the Changjiang Daily.
第二，是使这些患者能够得到正规、规范化的治疗。
The second is to enable these patients to receive regular, standardized treatment.
第三，集中收治，减少了传染病、传播地的扩散。
Third, centralized treatment has reduced the spread of infectious diseases and transmission areas.
第四，给老百姓树立信心。
Fourth, to build confidence in the common people.
吴晔婷|撰稿王吉陆|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Ms. Wu selected and written by Wang Jielu. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火神山医院今天开始接收患者，院长是SARS防治专家。
Mount Fujimori Hospital is receiving patients today. The director is a SARS prevention specialist.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "火神山医院今天开始接收患者，院长是SARS防治专家";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; SARS.
var msg_desc = "缓解患者入院难，更重要是减少社会恐慌情绪";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; alleviated hospitalization and, more importantly, social panic;;
title: '未确诊新冠病例：隐藏在统计数字背后的生命故事',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; hidden behind the statistics.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '未确诊新冠病例：隐藏在统计数字背后的生命故事',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; hidden behind the statistics.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
