武汉社区告急：领导干部亲自搬遗体，基层防疫压力巨大。
Wuhan community crisis: leading cadres personally moved the body, the grass-roots epidemic prevention pressure is enormous.
吴靖 王晨。
Wu Jing Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
社区是预防和分诊的第一道防线。
The community is the first line of defence for prevention and referral.
如今，在前所未有的疫情冲击之下，在巨大的困难面前，社区和社区工作者们被潮水般的求助人群不断冲击，已到了难堪其负的境地。
Today, in the face of an unprecedented epidemic and enormous hardship, communities and community workers have been hit hard by the flood of people seeking help.
△武汉街头，吴靖摄1月23日武汉封城后，武汉某社区居委会书记张平（化名）和同事们，每天都要接到许多社区居民的电话，有要求派车送病人去医院的，有要求社区人员陪同去医院的，还有要求他们去家中抬走遗体的……工作内容的改变令张平负责的社区服务中心猝不及防。
Wuhan After Wu Jing She January 23 in Wuhan, Wuhan after the Secretary of a community neighborhood committee Zhang Ping (not real name) and colleagues every day to receive a number of community residents, the request to send a car to the hospital, asked community members to accompany them to the hospital, also asked them to carry the body home... Changes in job content caught Zhang Ping's community service center off guard.
1月23日封城前，张平和同事们的工作不算复杂，他们响应政府“不信谣、不传谣”的号召，向所在社区的居民宣传“疫情没有那么严重”。
Before sealing the city on January 23, Zhang Ping and his colleagues did not have a complicated job. They responded to the government's call to "disbelieve and not spread rumors" and told residents in their communities that "the epidemic is not so serious."
一月上中旬，居民们依旧像以前一样，在没有消毒措施的菜市场里买菜、闲谈，街上没多少人戴口罩。
In mid-January, residents continued to shop and chat in unsterilized vegetable markets, and few people on the streets wore masks.
一些感觉有些发热症状的人，习惯性地自己买药或排队去大医院看门诊。
Some people who feel a little feverish are used to buying their own medicine or queuing up to see a big hospital.
岁月静好，现世安稳。
Time and tide wait for no man.
之后很久，张平和同事们才知道，就在他们的这个社区内，1月中旬时，就已经有两名医护人员确诊感染了新冠病毒。
It took long before Zhang Ping and his colleagues learned that in their community, two health-care workers had diagnosed the virus by mid-January.
这两名医护人员就是该社区的住户。
The two paramedics are the residents of the community.
而在1月中旬期间，当地大医院的医生们开始感觉到的忙碌和恐慌，还没有传递到社区里来。
In mid-January, the bustle and panic that began to be felt by doctors at major local hospitals did not yet reach the community.
封城之后，上级指令陡变，要求社区工作人员向居民宣传新冠肺炎传播的严重性，要求居民勤洗手、戴口罩。
After the closure of the city, superior orders changed dramatically, requiring community workers to inform residents of the seriousness of the spread of pneumonia and requiring them to wash their hands frequently and wear masks.
居民的防护意识和恐慌心情一同增加，不断增长的还有新冠肺炎的确诊人数、疑似人数，以及得不到确诊、住不进医院的危重病人——此时，他们一窝蜂地都涌向了社区。
The population's sense of protection and panic has increased, as has the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia, the number of suspected cases, and the number of critically ill people who are undiagnosed and unhospitalized - all of whom are rushing to the community.
张平带领着社区13名工作人员，9名保安队员，开始24小时值班，面对这个中等社区的2000多户居民、5000多个人。
Zhang Ping, who heads a community of 13 workers and nine security guards, began a 24-hour shift, targeting more than 2,000 families and more than 5,000 people in the middle-income community.
面对从未有过的工作强度和工作内容，他们在每日的奋战之余，也难免感到疲惫、焦虑和不安。
In the face of unprecedented intensity of work and job content, they have to struggle daily, but also feel tired, anxious and uneasy.
在疫情防控中，社区是预防和分诊的第一道防线。
The community is the first line of defense in the prevention and control of epidemics.
如今，在前所未有的疫情冲击之下，在巨大的现实困难之前，社区和社区工作者们被潮水般的求助人群不断冲击，已到了难堪其负的境地。
Today, under the impact of an unprecedented epidemic, communities and community workers have been overwhelmed by the flood of people seeking help, before enormous practical difficulties.
全武汉的2000余个社区，第一道防线，亟需各方支援。
Wuhan of more than 2,000 communities, the first line of defense, badly need the support of all.
一场猝不及防的社区防疫战封城前，武汉各大三甲医院的发热门诊已是人满为患。
Before a community epidemic prevention war sealed city, Wuhan major three A hospitals fever clinic is already full.
封城后，恐慌的市民更是把各大医院的发热门诊堵得水泄不通。
After the closure of the city, panic-stricken citizens are the major hospitals in the hot out-patient plug.
政府开始让社区承担分流病人的第一道关口。
The Government has begun to place the community at the first point of diversion.
1月24日，武汉封城后第二天，政府将武汉全市2000多个社区书记的联系方式，在各个居民微信群中公布。
Wuhan on January 24, the day after the closure of the city, Wuhan, the government will be the city's more than 2,000 community secretaries contact information, published in the various residents micro-letter group.
同时传达的，还有一份武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部的七号文件：由全市各社区负责，全面排查所服务辖区发热病人（含已就医和未就医市民），并送社区卫生中心对病情进行筛选、分类。
At the same time, a copy of Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Control Command document No. 7: the city's communities are responsible for a comprehensive screening of fever patients (both medical and non-medical) in the areas they serve, and sent to community health centres to screen and classify cases.
对于需要到发热门诊的病人，各区统一安排车辆送达指定发热门诊就诊；对于不需要到发热门诊就诊的病人，由各社区落实在家居家观察，社区负责做好市民居家观察服务工作。
For patients who need to go to a fever clinic, the district arranges vehicles to be delivered to designated fever clinics; for patients who do not need to go to a fever clinic, home-based observation is carried out by the communities, and the community is responsible for the home observation service.
已确定或高度疑似的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病人，由市卫健委负责，安排车辆送至指定治疗点治疗；疑似的发热病人，留在发热门诊留滞观察；发热情况较轻，还不能确定为疑似的病人，由各区负责接回指定地点隔离观察；确定不是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病人，由各区负责送回家中居家观察。
Pneumonia patients with a confirmed or highly suspected new coronavirus infection will be referred to designated treatment points by the MCHC. Suspected fever patients will be kept under observation at the fever clinic.
一夜之间，社区工作成为整个防疫工作中最重要的一环。
Overnight, community work became the most important part of the overall epidemic prevention effort.
张平所在的社区，距离疫情的发源地华南海鲜市场直线距离不到5公里，人群聚集，流动性特别高，居民的新冠肺炎感染率很高。
Zhang Ping's community, less than 5 kilometers from the source of the outbreak's south China seafood market, is crowded, particularly mobile, and residents have a high incidence of new crown pneumonia.
社区以老旧住宅小区为主。
The community is dominated by old residential areas.
老旧小区的居民，很多都是一些国企下岗职工，失去单位的他们，就成了没有单位管理的“社会人”。
Old residential areas, many are laid off workers from state-owned enterprises, lost their units, they have become no management of the "social person."
这些小区大多也没有物业。
Most of these communities also have no property.
有物业的小区，社区相对轻松一些，因为宣传、消毒、封闭管理等工作，小区物业可以承担一部分。
There are properties in the small community, the community is relatively light, because of publicity, disinfection, closed management and other work, residential property can bear a part.
而没有物业的小区，所有的工作，就落在了社区服务中心的头上。
And no property community, all the work, fell on the head of the community service center.
比起街道办事处的其它十几个社区，张平所在的这个社区疫情比较严重。
More than a dozen other neighborhoods in the neighborhood where Zhang Ping lives, the epidemic is more severe.
社区里有一个新建的小区，许多附近的医生在那里买房。
There is a new small area in the community where many nearby doctors buy houses.
一些医护人员被感染，已有两名确诊新冠肺炎，还有一些疑似病例。
Some health care workers have been infected, two have confirmed pneumonia, and there are a number of suspected cases.
张平的手机被迅速打爆，许多发热患者开始走到社区服务中心咨询治疗事宜。
Zhang Ping's mobile phone was exploded quickly, and many fever sufferers began to walk to the community service center to ask for treatment.
武汉封城的第一天，张平和同事们没有任何的防护措施。
On the first day of Wuhan, Zhang Ping and his colleagues had no protection.
1月26日，街道办事处才给他们配备了一次性口罩。
It was only on 26 January that street offices equipped them with disposable masks.
2000个口罩分两次配给，其中一部分要分给社区独居的困难户和买不到口罩的居民。
Two thousand face masks were distributed twice, some to needy families living alone in the community and those unable to buy masks.
1月27日，社区分到了20件防护服，一些护目镜，还有少量的消毒水，要求社区人员每天给小区消毒。
On 27 January, the community was provided with 20 protective clothing, some goggles and a small amount of disinfectant, requiring community members to disinfect the community on a daily basis.
消毒水明显不够，只好是给条件比较差的小区喷洒多一点，环境稍微好一点的小区，一天喷洒一次，或隔天喷洒一次。
Disinfectant water is obviously not enough, had to spray a bit more, slightly better environment of the area, sprayed once a day, or every other day spraying.
1月28日，政府公告要求社区工作人员陪同发热病人去社区卫生服务中心或医院看病。
On 28 January, the Government announced that community workers would accompany patients with fever to community health centres or hospitals.
封城之后，私家车不允许上路，病人们都来到社区要求派车，而给社区配备的三辆出租车，司机都没有防护措施，只能用于被隔离居民的送餐、买菜等辅助性工作，并不能送发热病人。
After the closure of the city, private cars were not allowed to go on the roads, patients came to the community to ask for a car, and the three taxis provided to the community were equipped with no protective measures and could only be used for supplementary work such as food delivery, food and food for isolated residents, and could not deliver fever sufferers.
“司机自己也要保护自己，怎么送发热病人呢？”街道要求社区工作人员每天要上门排查发热病人，张平决定以打电话的方式替代。
"Drivers themselves to protect themselves, how to send feverish patients?" The street asked community workers every day to check fever patients, Zhang Ping decided to telephone instead.
“看到疫情越来越严重，传染风险很大。
"There is a great risk of contagion as we see the epidemic getting worse.
我们决定，绝对不敲开别人家的门，而是在小区内进行灭菌消毒工作。
We decided not to knock on the doors of others, but to sterilize the area.
我们把如何居家隔离、如何注意卫生的宣传单放在家门口，但不接触居民。
We keep leaflets on how to keep people at home, how to pay attention to hygiene, on the doorstep of our homes, but do not touch the residents.
”张平说。
"said Zhang Ping.
政府要求如果社区发现疑似病人，需要病人在家隔离。
The government requires patients to be isolated at home if the community detects a suspected patient.
张平所在的社区，社区网格员、社区书记、卫生院工作人员，还有派出所民警，对在家隔离的住户进行实时跟踪，确保该住户不传染并扩散病毒。
Zhang Ping's community, community grid workers, community secretaries, health center staff, and police station police officers follow up on isolated homes in real time to ensure that the household does not infect and spread the virus.
但这一切，都是用电话追踪的方式进行。
But all this is done by telephone tracking.
当疑似病人需要去社区卫生院复查时，社区会让他们自行去复查，这就丧失了在家隔离的意义。
When patients are suspected of having to go to a community health clinic for a review, the community will allow them to do so themselves, thus losing the significance of isolation at home.
遇到这种情况，社区能做的就是向上汇报，看上面怎么处理。
When this happens, all the community can do is report back up and see how it's handled.
一场社区工作人员和居民的博弈在24小时不断的居民求助电话中，有不少是投诉电话。
A game between community workers and residents Many of the 24-hour calls to help residents are complaints.
投诉最多的内容，是社区拒绝派车送他们到发热门诊。
The most frequent complaint was the refusal of the community to send them to the fever clinic.
2003年的非典，张平经历过，“那时武汉主要是输入性病例，而且也没有封城和禁止交通工具，感觉那时要比现在轻松。
As Zhang Ping experienced with SARS in 2003, "Wuhan was predominantly an imported case, and there was no cordon and no means of transport. It felt easier then than it is now.
”居民交通不便，急需用车，他们的要求来源于政府的规定：对于需要到发热门诊的病人，各区统一安排车辆将其送达指定发热门诊就诊。
Their demand for cars, which are badly needed because of their lack of transportation, stems from government regulations that require all districts to arrange vehicles to deliver patients to designated fever clinics.
政府还有规定，要社区服务人员陪同他们就诊。
The Government also requires community service personnel to accompany them.
初衷是防止这些病人成为移动感染源。
The idea was to prevent these patients from becoming mobile sources of infection.
张平所在的社区服务中心，往往要求居民自行去卫生院分诊、发热门诊和医院。
Zhang Ping's community service center often requires residents to go to clinics, hot clinics and hospitals themselves.
一方面，有车辆不足的现实原因，一个社区才配备三辆出租车，确实极难安排；另一方面，社区工作人员自身防护不足，他们也担心自己被感染。
On the one hand, there are practical reasons why a community is not equipped with three taxis, which is extremely difficult to arrange; on the other hand, community workers are not sufficiently protected themselves and they fear being infected.
1月27日晚，社区里一位被确诊冠状肺炎的老人，因为医院没有床位一直在家，在高烧四天后去世。
On the night of January 27, an elderly man in the community who had been diagnosed with coronary pneumonia died after a four-day fever because the hospital had no bed at home.
他的亲密接触者是老伴和女儿，都出现了发热的迹象。
His intimate contacts were his wife and daughter, both of whom showed signs of fever.
死者家属不断打电话给社区服务中心，要求派车送死者的老伴去医院。
Families of the deceased repeatedly called the community service centre to ask for a car to take the deceased's wife to the hospital.
随后，社区派车把她送到了最近的社区卫生中心做筛查，社区卫生中心筛查之后，判断老人高度疑似，分流到了协和医院确诊。
She was then transported by car to the nearest community health centre for screening. After screening by the community health centre, the elderly were assessed as highly suspected and diverted to Concorde Hospital for diagnosis.
一直到当晚11点，老人才看完病，家属打电话来要求社区派车来医院接。
Not until 11 o'clock that night did the old man finish his illness. His family called and asked the community to send a car to the hospital.
社区派不出车来，家属便打电话到街道办投诉。
When the community could not send a car, the family called the street office to complain.
街道办再打电话给社区服务中心，要求派车。
The street office called the community service center and asked for a car.
等到社区服务中心派出一辆电瓶车时，那位老人和家属们等待无望，已经走回家了。
By the time the community service center sent out an electric truck, the old man and his family had walked home in despair.
第二天中午，老人要到医院复查，家属再次要求社区派车。
The next day at noon, the old man to go to the hospital to review, the family again asked the community to send cars.
社区不派车，家属直接带老太太去社区服务中心坐着。
The community did not send cars, the family directly took the old lady to the community service center to sit.
所有的工作人员都吓跑了。
All the staff were scared away.
最后，是老人家属自己找电瓶车把她送到了医院。
Finally, it was the old man who found his own electric car and took her to the hospital.
医院最终诊断老太太高度疑似新冠病毒肺炎，应该收治入院，但因为没有床位，难以入院。
The hospital finally diagnosed the old lady's high suspected pneumonia, should be admitted to hospital, but because there are no beds, difficult to hospitalize.
老太太的家属又找到社区，要求社区找到可以收治病人的定点医院，但社区并无能力要求已经爆满的医院接收病人。
The old lady's family went back to the community and asked the community to find a designated hospital where the patient could be treated, but the community was not in a position to request a full hospital to receive patients.
于是，又一轮的争吵、投诉、博弈，在社区和居民之间开展。
Thus, another round of quarrels, complaints, games, between the community and the residents.
类似这样的博弈，并没有赢家。
There are no winners in games like this.
稍微松了口气随着疫情的发展，武汉各大定点医院的状况已经很脆弱。
Relax a little With the development of the epidemic, Wuhan major designated hospitals have been very fragile.
物资紧缺、床位爆满、医护人员人手有限，使一些本该入院治疗的重症病人，只能在家。
Shortages of supplies, overcrowded beds and limited medical staff have left some seriously ill patients who should have been hospitalized at home.
某家定点医院的隔离病房并未住满，但工作群却发送出了让医护人员不再接收病人的信息。
The isolation ward at one of the designated hospitals was not fully occupied, but the staff sent a message that the staff would no longer receive patients.
因为资源紧缺，医院也要保护自己的医护人员不受感染。
Hospitals also have to protect their staff from infection because of resource constraints.
这些在家等候、毫无办法的重症病人，有些一家人都会有发热的症状，家属不断找社区解决问题，反倒成了社区最担心的感染源。
Some families have febrile symptoms, and families are increasingly turning to the community to solve their problems, becoming the most worrying source of infection for the community.
张平所在的社区，有一位82岁确诊新冠病毒肺炎的老人，住不进医院。
Zhang Ping lives in a community where an 82-year-old man diagnosed with Newcomovirus pneumonia is unable to get to a hospital.
他的女儿和妻子都发低烧，做了CT检测，高度疑似新冠肺炎。
His daughter and wife both had low fever, had CT tests, and were highly suspected of pneumonia.
1月25日晚上8点，老人的情况极其危急，只有呼出去的气息。
At 8 p.m. on January 25, the old man's condition was critical and he could only exhale.
家属不断打电话让社区派车，社区没有车。
Families repeatedly call the community to send cars, and the community has no cars.
又打电话给120，120回应只有医院同意接收，才可以派车。
Call 120, 120 and respond only if the hospital agrees to take the car.
再打电话给卫健委和疾控部门，无人接听。
Call health committee and disease control department again, nobody answer.
当晚10点，老人不幸去世。
At 10 o'clock that night, the old man died.
悲痛的家属打电话给殡仪馆。
The grieving family called the funeral home.
殡仪馆表示，因新冠肺炎去世的人，必须要先进行消杀之后，殡仪馆才能派人过来。
The funeral home said people who died of pneumonia had to be sterilized before the funeral home could send someone over.
家属把死者的物件堆在门口和楼道里，社区人员担心被感染，把情况上报给街道，要街道来对死者的物品进行消毒。
Families piled the deceased's belongings in doorways and aisles, and community members, fearing infection, reported the situation to the street and asked the street to disinfect the deceased's belongings.
街道人手不足，请人也请不到。
The streets were understaffed, and no one was invited.
后来，街道办事处副主任和社区卫生院的医生，自己穿着防护服对死者的物品进行了消杀。
Later, the deputy director of the neighbourhood office and the doctors at the community health centre, wearing protective clothing themselves, sterilized the deceased's belongings.
消杀之后，1月26日上午，殡仪馆还没派人前来。
On the morning of 26 January, after the extermination, the funeral parlour had not been attended.
于是，上级政府开始协调这件事情。
The higher authorities then began to coordinate the matter.
之后，殡仪馆同意了出车，但要求派两个人帮忙抬尸体。
The undertaker then agreed to leave, but asked for two men to help lift the body.
最后，还是上级部门的一位领导干部，自己穿着防护服去抬走了尸体。
Finally, a leading cadre of higher authorities, wearing their own protective clothing to carry away the body.
尽管极其注意自我防护，但张平社区的工作人员已有几个病倒。
Despite extreme self-protection, several Zhang Ping community workers have fallen ill.
小区的管理措施日趋严格，每个小区只设一个门进出，进出的人员要被询问，测体温。
The community management measures are increasingly strict, each small area only set up a door in and out, in and out of the personnel to be questioned, temperature.
各方人马都已经疲惫到了极点。
All sides are exhausted to the limit.
一些难以被收治入院的疑似病人，做不到居家隔离的要求，天天跑到社区，问社区工作人员何时才能安排住院。
Suspected patients who find it difficult to be admitted to hospital are unable to meet the requirement of home isolation and travel daily to the community to ask when community workers will be able to arrange hospitalization.
1月30日，市政府开始给每个社区配备两位民警，协助他们完成上门探访、消毒等措施。
On 30 January, the municipality began equipping each community with two civilian police officers to assist them with home visits, disinfection and other measures.
区里也在酒店设置了强制医学隔离点，有医生和护士给疑似病人进行检测和简单的治疗。
The district has also set up a compulsory medical quarantine at the hotel, where doctors and nurses conduct tests and simple treatments for suspected patients.
这时，张平和同事们才稍微松了一口气。
Only then did Zhang Ping and his colleagues breathe a little relieved.
吴靖 王晨|撰稿吴晔婷对本文亦有贡献我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Wu selected some articles to this article also contributed to our respect for original copyright, do not reproduce without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉社区告急：领导干部亲自搬遗体，基层防疫压力巨大。
Wuhan community crisis: leading cadres personally moved the body, the grass-roots epidemic prevention pressure is enormous.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉社区告急：领导干部亲自搬遗体，基层防疫压力巨大";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "社区和社区工作者，被潮水般的求助人群不断冲击";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by the flood of help.
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
