独家现场视频｜火神山医院工程建筑师详解工地内部进展。
Exclusive live video, the engineer architect of Mount Huoshen Hospital explained the progress inside the site.
健闻莫杨。
Good smell of poplar.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
Play1月31日早晨6点多，打开武汉火神山医院建设现场24小时直播画面，可以看到天还没亮，但工地灯火通明，画面近端的挖掘机和工程车辆一直处于工作状态，病房已经初具雏形，不断有施工人员穿梭于病房之间。
PlayOn January 31, more than 6 a.m., opened Wuhan fire god mountain hospital construction site 24 hours live footage, you can see that it is not light, but the construction site lights, the excavation and engineering vehicles near the screen has been in operation, the ward has been embryonic, construction staff shuttling between the wards.
△ 直播画面截图而在7天之前，这里还是一片空地。
Live footage of?? seven days ago, it was a vacant lot.
△1月24日的医院施工现场（新华社记者 肖艺九摄）2020年1月23日下午，武汉市城建局紧急开会，要求参照2003年抗击“非典”期间北京小汤山医院模式（4000工人用7个昼夜火速建成），在武汉职工疗养院建设一座专门医院——武汉蔡甸火神山医院，来应对严峻的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情。
On the afternoon of January 23, 2020, the URA of Wuhan City held an emergency meeting and demanded to build a special hospital in the Wuhan Workers' Sanatorium to cope with the severe new-style coronavirus pneumonia.
在1月23日，新冠病毒疫情已经波及全国25个省（区、市），截至当天0点，25省区累计报道确诊病例571例，其中300多例来自疫情首发地和重灾区武汉。
On January 23, the new crown virus epidemic affected 25 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities across the country.By 0 o'clock on the same day, a total of 571 confirmed cases had been reported in 25 provinces and autonomous regions, including more than 300 from the outbreak site and Wuhan, a major disaster area.
截至1月31日0点，湖北省累计报告新冠病毒肺炎病例5806例，其中武汉市2639例，对于当地现有医疗资源，压力可想而知。
By 0 o'clock on January 31, a total of 5,806 new cases of pneumonia had been reported in Hubei Province, 2,639 of which were in Wuhan.
根据建设要求，武汉蔡甸火神山医院24日完成相关设计方案， 2月3日前建成投入使用，规划建筑面积2.5万平方米，可容纳1000张病床。
According to the construction requirements, Wuhan Cai dian fire god mountain hospital 24 completed the relevant design proposal, completed by February 3, the planning area of 25,000 square meters, can accommodate 1000 beds.
1月25日，武汉市又决定再建一所“小汤山模式”医院——雷神山医院，目前规划面积约6万平方米，床位1600张。
On January 25, Wuhan city decided to build another "Xiaotangshan mode" hospital - Lei Shenshan Hospital, the current planning area of about 60,000 square meters, 1600 beds.
火神山、雷神山两所医院开建以来，一直处于公众的注目之下。
Since the opening of the two hospitals, Mount Fire and Lei Shenshan, they have been in the public eye.
视频直播平台开设了24小时不间断网络直播。
The live video platform is available 24 hours a day.
春节期间，因为新冠疫情而不能出门的数千万网友，便在可以俯瞰工地全景的直播画面前，做起了两所医院的“网络监工”。
During the Spring Festival, because of the outbreak of the new crown can not go out of the tens of millions of netizens, overlooking the construction site panorama live screen, started two hospitals "network overseer."
1月30日，承担火神山医院设计任务的中信建筑设计研究总院建筑师田怡，来到施工现场查看工程进度，并拍下了本文开头的这段视频。
On January 30, Tian Yi, the architect of Zhongxin Architectural Design Research Institute, who was tasked with designing the Mount Huoshen Hospital, came to the construction site to check the progress of the project and filmed the video at the beginning of the article.
通过视频，可以从内部看到火神山医院截至当天的建设进展。
Through video, can see from inside the fire god mountain hospital construction progress as of that day.
△ 中信建筑设计研究总院 供图为了获得医院工程的更多情况，八点健闻当晚对中信建筑设计研究总院有限公司副总建筑师、火神山设计总负责人汤群，建筑专业负责人之一田怡进行了采访。
In order to obtain more information about the hospital project, Tian Yi, Deputy Chief Architect of CITIC Architectural Design Research Institute Limited and Chief Design Officer of Mount Fukuyama, was interviewed by Tian Yi, one of the architectural specialists.
八点健闻：是在怎样的情况下接到这个任务的？有多少人参与？汤群：1月23日下午，中信建筑设计研究总院接到武汉火神山医院的紧急设计任务，迅速集中总院具有医疗设计经验的工程师，组建起60余人的火神山应急项目组，当晚18:00即投入设计工作。
On the afternoon of January 23, the General Institute of Architectural Research of CITIC received the urgent design task from Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, quickly assembled engineers with experience in medical design, and set up a project group of 60-strong Mount Fire Emergency Project Team, which was put into operation at 18: 00 that evening.
5小时内拿出了场地平整设计图，24小时拿出了方案设计图并得到通过，60小时即1月26日凌晨交付了施工图。
The site formation plans were produced within five hours, the schematic drawings were produced and approved in 24 hours, and the drawings were delivered in the early hours of 26 January, 60 hours later.
而施工团队在拿到场地平整设计图之前，已经开始连夜平地，这也是网友们看到的一百多辆施工车同时作业、平整地面的场景。
The construction team had already begun leveling the site before getting the plans, a scene where netizens saw more than a hundred construction vehicles working simultaneously to level the ground.
△ 中信建筑设计研究总院供图八点健闻：你们以往有医院设计方面的经验吗？雷神山医院设计情况您了解吗？汤群：武汉的设计院很多，但是专业设计过医院的不多。
Zhongxin Architectural Design Research Institute: Have you ever had any experience in hospital design? Do you know anything about the design of Lei Shenshan Hospital? Tang Qun: There are many design institutes in Wuhan, but few have specialized in designing hospitals.
我们曾设计过武汉市金银潭医院（收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎定点医院），具有丰富的传染病医院设计经验。
We have designed the Gold and Silver Tam Hospital in Wuhan (the designated hospital for treating the new coronavirus infection) and have rich experience in the hospital design of infectious diseases.
除了金银潭医院以外，在国内外设计了数十个综合医院项目，如武汉市协和医院金银湖院区、武汉市第一医院、武汉市儿童医院、武汉市中医院、武大中南医院、西安市儿童医院、援尼日尔综合医院等等。
In addition to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, dozens of general hospital projects have been designed at home and abroad, such as the Gold and Silver Lake Hospital of Wuhan Concorde Hospital, Wuhan City First Hospital, Wuhan Children's Hospital, Wuhan City Chinese Hospital, Wu Da Zhongnan Hospital, Xi'an Children's Hospital, and Assistance Niger General Hospital.
设计雷神山的，也是一家很有经验的设计院。
The design of Lei Shenshan, is also a very experienced design institute.
八点健闻：能按预定时间完工吗？汤群：我们在1月26日凌晨交付图纸以后，这几天的主要任务都是配合现场施工，根据工地的实际进展状况加上这几天武汉的天气比较好，估计应该在市政府预定的2月3日左右交付给使用单位。
The main task of these days is to cooperate with the site construction. According to the actual progress of the construction site and the weather in Wuhan these days, it should be delivered to the users around February 3 as scheduled by the municipal government.
八点健闻：火神山医院和一般综合医院相比有什么不同？保障呼吸道传染疾病交叉感染的重点是什么？汤群：防护隔离的级别不仅比综合医院，而且比现有的传染病医院要求还要高。
Eight points: What is the difference between Fo Shen Shan Hospital and General Hospital? What are the key points for cross-infection of respiratory infectious diseases? Tang Qun: The level of protective isolation is not only higher than that of general hospitals, but also higher than the existing hospitals for infectious diseases.
通过设置清洁区、半污染区、污染区及医护人员专用通道和病人通道的布置方式，以及相对应的零压清洁空间到负压病房的通风系统，避免交叉感染。
Avoid cross-infection by setting up a clean area, a semi-polluted area, a dedicated passage for medical staff and a patient passageway, and a corresponding zero-pressure clean space to a ventilation system in a negative pressure ward.
医护人员进出病区设置包括风淋在内的专用卫生通过设施，最大限度地保护医护人员的健康安全。
Medical personnel enter and leave the sick area to set up special sanitary passage facilities, including the wind shower, to protect the health and safety of medical personnel to the greatest extent.
每个病房均设有独立的卫生间，利用集装箱下面的架空空间组织排水管道，且每个病房均设有专用隔离防护窗，用于药品和食品的传递。
Each ward is equipped with a separate toilet that uses the overhead space under the container to organize the drains, and each ward is equipped with a special isolation window for the delivery of medicines and food.
△ 中信建筑设计研究总院供图八点健闻：在视频中看到田怡建筑师好像特别关注层高的问题，为什么？田怡：是的。
Zhongxin Architecture Design Research Institute for Figure 8: Tian Yi Architects in the video seems to pay special attention to the problem of floor height, why? Yi: Yes.
这是第一次用集装箱房来建设医院。
This is the first time a hospital has been built in a container.
集装箱是现成的，外形高度固定是3米，而通常医院设计层高在3.8米左右,铺设管线后净高可以达到2.8米。
Containers are readily available, with a height of 3 metres fixed, whereas hospital design floors are typically about 3.8 metres high and the net height of pipelines can reach 2.8 metres.
我们非常担心病房层高是否足够，因为太低病患会很容易觉得压抑。
We are very concerned about the adequacy of the height of the wards, as it is too low for patients to feel depressed.
而今天（1月30日）到现场亲自感受，安装了风管后的走廊层高达到2.4米。
Today (January 30) came to the scene to personally experience the installation of the air duct after the corridor floor up to 2.4 meters.
病房内管线较少，层高会更高一些，使用感受也会更好一些。
Ward pipe is less, the height of the higher level will be higher, the use of the feeling will be better.
所以我说还是OK的。
So I said OK.
△ 中信建筑设计研究总院供图八点健闻：有哪些避免环境污染的措施？汤群：我们采取了雨水全收集消毒处理和全基地铺设防渗膜的技术措施。
What measures are in place to prevent environmental pollutionTang Qun: We have taken measures to collect and disinfect all rainwater and lay anti-seepage film on the whole base.
5万平方米的建设用地采用防渗膜全覆盖，污水接触消毒4小时后排入城市管网，场地雨水则通过专门系统全面收集，消毒半小时后排入城市管网，医疗垃圾按照环保部门的相关规定进行专门处置。
Fifty thousand square meters of construction land is fully covered with impermeable film, four hours after the sewage contact disinfection is discharged into the urban water network, and the field rainwater is collected through a special system. After half an hour of disinfection, it is discharged into the urban water network.
八点健闻：医院设计得到了小汤山设计团队的哪些帮助？汤群：小汤山设计团队——中国中元国际工程有限公司在接到有关需求后第一时间将优化的项目图纸和说明文件发送给武汉市城建局并转交我院，当晚即成立以黄锡璆大师为组长的技术专家组，连夜联系我院建立在线沟通机制，为火神山医院设计工作提供24小时技术支持，为医院设计建设工作的顺利进行发挥了极为重要的作用。
Eight points Jianmin: What help did the hospital design get from the design team of Xiaotangshan? Tang Qun: The design team of Xiaotangshan - China Zhongyuan International Engineering Co. Ltd. sent the optimized project drawings and instructions to the URA and forwarded them to our hospital.
八点健闻：17年后建设火神山医院，有哪些条件比小汤山更好？有什么经验借鉴？田怡：小汤山医院的大病区是分开独立的，要从一个区到另一个区只能从户外穿行。
Eight points of health news: 17 years after the construction of the fire god mountain hospital, what conditions better than Xiaotangshan? Tian Yi: Xiaotangshan Hospital's major disease areas are separate, from one district to another only through the open air.
且病人通道都直接对外，没有封闭。
And the patient passageway all direct outward, does not close.
火神山医院则根据小汤山医院和武汉医疗专家组的意见，将医护流线和病人流线都在室内，同时又分别隔离。
The hospital, based on advice from Xiaotangshan Hospital and Wuhan Medical Expert Group, kept both the hospital streamline and the patient streamline indoors while secluded.
医护人员通过建筑中的医护清洁走道可以到达每一个病区，不需要达到室外，更有效地保护了医护人员的安全。
Health-care workers can reach every area of the building through the medical and cleaning walkway, which does not need to be outside, thus protecting the health care workers more effectively.
而且火神山的病房使用了17年前还没有的集装箱房。
And the fire god mountain ward uses container rooms that did not exist 17 years ago.
八点健闻：是否知道网络上有几千万人在线“监工”？怎么看待这种热情？田怡：1月27日以前，设计团队的所有精力都集中在尽快地完成和优化图纸，为现场施工争取更多的时间上，关于现场的事情，我们都放心地交给了我院24小时在现场配合的团队手上。
Tian Yi: Before January 27, the design team was focused on completing and optimizing the drawings as soon as possible and getting more time for the site construction. We were relieved to hand over everything to our 24-hour on-site team.
但是当我们把完善的图纸交到施工方手中后，我们都关注到此事，而且也会利用工作休息的时间看一下在线视频，了解一下现场的状况，看是不是能如期完成并投入使用。
But when we put the perfect drawings in the hands of the builders, we were all concerned and would take the time to take a break from work to see the online video and see if it could be completed and put to use on schedule.
让我们欣喜的是，工地现场有很多人在没日没夜的干，现场的视频不是每天有多少变化，而是上午和下午就会有很大的不同。
Much to our delight, there were a lot of people working around the clock at the site. The video was not changing much every day, but would be very different in the morning and afternoon.
我们相信很多网友也跟我们有着一样的心情，而且几千万的“云监工”也表明中国人都站在一起，和武汉站在一起！八点健闻：你们专业的监工的心情如何？是在盯哪些重点？田怡：我们更多关心的是这么短的时间，我们设计要求的建材是否能够采购得到？如果采购不到，能否有其它的替代方案？我们的设计是否能兼顾到短施工周期的需求？八点健闻：视频中看到现场工人都戴口罩了，还带了馒头干粮。
We believe that many netizens are in the same mood as us, and tens of millions of "cloud workers" show that the Chinese people are standing together and standing with Wuhan! Eight Keen Wen: What is the mood of your professional supervisors?
不知道现场防控和后勤供给怎么样？田怡：这部分主要由指挥部统一负责。
I don't know how about on-site control and logistics? Tian Yi: This part is mainly under the unified command.
我今天去之前也很担心现场防控。
I was worried about site control before I went today.
到了看到有体温筛查，所有人都带上了口罩。
By the time they saw the screening, all of them were wearing masks.
后勤上因为旁边有个疗养院，可以供应三餐，虽然现在武汉的情况不能保证工人们吃得很好。
Logistics because there is a sanatorium nearby, can provide three meals, although the current situation in Wuhan does not guarantee that the workers eat well.
我拍摄到他们带馒头后也专门问了一下，是有时饭点怕拖延工作，就没去打饭，带的补给。
I photographed them with steamed bread after a special question, is sometimes afraid to delay work, do not go to dinner, with supplies.
莫杨|撰稿刘冉|责编我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing with Liu Ran & # 44; & # 45; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
独家现场视频｜火神山医院工程建筑师详解工地内部进展。
Exclusive live video, the engineer architect of Mount Huoshen Hospital explained the progress inside the site.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "独家现场视频｜火神山医院工程建筑师详解工地内部进展";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; exclusive live video, engineering architect at Mount Heroine Hospital. & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "医院估计在武汉市政府预定的2月3日左右交付。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the hospital is estimated to have been delivered by Wuhan city government around February 3.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
