当载满武汉人的航班降落，浙江省人性化应对的底气从何而来？。
When the flights full of Wuhan people landed, Zhejiang humanized response to the bottom from where?
毛晓琼吴晔婷王晨。
Xiao Qiong Wu selected Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
全国第一个公开通报疑似病例的省份；全国最早启动一级响应的省份。
The first province in the country to report suspected cases publicly; the first in the country to initiate a first response.
虽是“人口小省”，但因与湖北经贸往来密切，目前确诊人数名列全国第二，确诊比例远超广东河南。
Although "small population province," but because of the close economic and trade ties with Hubei, the number of confirmed people ranked second in the country, far more than Guangdong Province Henan.
在发现5例疑似病例的时候，省政府高层即以“硬仗大仗”严阵以待。
When five suspected cases were found, provincial government officials were bracing themselves for a "hard fight."
从省到地市到乡镇街道，各级政府组织快速激活响应，卫生、交通、电信等相关行业几乎全员发动。
From provinces to cities to townships, government organizations at all levels quickly activated the response, and health, transportation, telecommunications and other related industries were almost fully mobilized.
浙江事例再次证明，在面对重大疫情时，医疗机构尤其是大三甲医院只是最后一道防线。
Zhejiang example proves once again, in the face of a major epidemic, medical institutions, especially the Big Three A Hospital is only the last line of defense.
地方政府对疫情的防控，考验的是一个组织从大脑到毛细血管的反应能力、判断能力和组织能力。
The control of the epidemic by local governments tests an organization's ability to respond, judge and organize from the brain to the capillaries.
2020年1月25日，大年初一，以往人流如织的杭州西湖、灵隐寺空空荡荡，习惯在那一天求神拜佛的人们，改变了多年以来坚持的习惯。
On January 25, 2020, the first day of the Lunar New Year, the people who used to weave the West Lake and Lingyin Temple in Hangzhou are empty.
这是1月23日浙江省启动重大公共突发卫生事件一级响应的第三天。
It was the third day of a major public health emergency level response in Zhejiang Province on January 23.
浙江省是这一波疫情中，全国最早启动一级响应的省份，甚至比疫情爆发地湖北还要早。
Zhejiang Province is the first province in the country to initiate a first-level response, even before the outbreak of Hubei Province.
浙江省也是最早向社会公开通报疑似病例的省份。
Zhejiang is also the first province to publicly inform the community of suspected cases.
1月20日上午10点06分，浙江省卫健委官网发布通报：1月17日以来，浙江省温州、舟山、台州、杭州陆续发现5例武汉来浙并出现发热等呼吸道症状患者，均在定点医院进行隔离观察……患者实验室结果正在按规定复核中，一旦确诊，将及时向社会公布。
Since January 17, five cases of respiratory symptoms such as Wuhan, Zhejiang Province, Zhoushan, Taizhou and Hangzhou have been found in Wuhan, Zhejiang Province. Fever and other respiratory symptoms have been observed in designated hospitals.
通报虽仅有短短一段话，然而意义重大。
The briefing, although only a short one, was significant.
此前，其它各省市的病例需要省卫健委、国家卫健委双重审核后才能发布，需要走两周左右的程序，并且在确诊之前不发布疑似病例。
Previously, cases in other provinces and cities need to be double-checked by the provincial health committee and the national health committee before being issued, a two-week process is needed, and no suspected cases are released before diagnosis.
但浙江在未完成复核前，就发布疑似病例数据，对社会的警示至少提前一周。
But Zhejiang did not complete the review before the release of suspected case data, the warning to the community at least a week in advance.
一位浙江省的工作人员坦言，这一次浙江几乎出动了政府全部力量，从省到地市，从地市到乡镇街道，各级政府组织快速激活响应；卫生、交通、电信等核心相关行业几乎全员发动。
This time, Zhejiang Province has deployed almost all of its forces, from provinces to cities, from cities to townships, to jump-start the response of government organizations at all levels, said a Zhejiang worker.
在他看来，这并非政府过度紧张，而是基于事实的预测。
In his view, this was not an overstretched government, but a fact-based prediction.
之所以快速启动一级响应，是因为浙江省早在发现疑似病例之前，根据武汉到浙江的人员流动情况做出的分析：每年浙江和武汉经商、务工的往来人数约有几十万，这一人群流动基数，预示着浙江将会有一定数量的新型冠状病毒肺炎感染者。
The rapid start-up of the first response is based on an analysis of the movement of people from Wuhan to Zhejiang Province long before a suspected case is discovered: The annual number of business and labor exchanges between Zhejiang and Wuhan is in the hundreds of thousands, indicating that Zhejiang will have a certain number of new coronavirus pneumonia.
疫情的防控，考验的是一个组织从大脑到毛细血管的反应和组织能力：省一级的高层要有对形势的准确预判和大胆决策；地市一级的中层要有强大的传导和落实能力；基层的街道、乡镇和社区，既要有坚决贯彻上级指令的意志和能力，还要有因地制宜的灵活应变能力。
The prevention and control of the epidemic tests an organization's ability to respond and organize itself from the brain to the capillaries: it requires accurate forecasting and bold decision-making at the provincial and municipal levels; it requires strong transmission and implementation capacity at the local level; and streets, towns and communities at the grass-roots level must have the will and ability to follow orders from higher levels and the ability to adapt to local conditions.
在这套自上而下层层部署，自下而上高效反馈的群防群治的体系中，医疗卫生系统仅是其中一环。
The health-care system is only one component of a top-down, bottom-up, high-impact crowd-control system.
这再次证明，在面对重大疫情时，医疗机构尤其是大三甲医院只是最后一道防线。
This proves once again that in the face of a major epidemic, medical institutions, in particular the Big Three A Hospital, are only the last line of defence.
政府的综合治理水平、各级组织的协同作战能力，以及基层群众的防疫意识和自主自律性，环环相扣，缺一不可。
The comprehensive government management level, the coordination ability of organizations at all levels, as well as grass-roots people's consciousness of epidemic prevention and self-discipline, are inextricably linked.
这些因素的组合，构筑了最后一道防线前的层层防御，是战胜疫情的关键。
The combination of these factors, the construction of the last line of defense layer after layer of defense, is the key to defeat the epidemic.
为什么浙江成为确诊人数最多的省之一？自1月20日浙江省通报疑似病例之后，随后的一周，被确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎感染的人数急剧增多。
The number of people diagnosed with coronavirus pneumonia rose sharply in the week after Zhejiang reported a suspected case on Jan. 20.
截至1月28日24时，浙江累计报告确诊病例296例，除去疫情爆发地湖北省以外，确诊人数最多。
As of 2400 hours on January 28, a total of 296 cases had been reported in Zhejiang, with the exception of Hubei province, where the outbreak had occurred, with the largest number of confirmed cases.
而如果只看1月25日至1月27日这三天的确诊人数，浙江总计确诊了111例，比广东省多1例。
Looking only at the number of people diagnosed over the three days from January 25 to January 27, Zhejiang Province confirmed a total of 111 cases, one more than Guangdong Province.
按照病毒潜伏期2-14天计，现在正是发病集中的时间区间。
According to the incubation period of the virus 2-14 days, now is the time interval of concentrated disease.
浙江是“人口小省”，2018年末常住人口数为5735万，和目前在确诊人数上同样名列前茅的广东、河南相比，差不多只有后者的一半。
Zhejiang is a "small-population province" with 57.35 million inhabitants at the end of 2018, about half the number of people diagnosed in Guangdong and Henan, which are also among the highest in terms of number of confirmed cases.
这意味着，浙江的确诊比例要远远超过广东和河南。
That means Zhejiang has a much higher rate of diagnosis than Guangdong and Henan.
浙江省卫健委主任张平近日在接受采访时表示，浙江确诊人数较多，增长快，主要有两个原因：第一个原因，是浙江外出在湖北，尤其是在武汉经商、学习和工作的人员比较多。
There are two main reasons for the high number of confirmed cases in Zhejiang Province. The first reason is that Zhejiang Province has gone out to Hubei, especially the people doing business, studying and working in Wuhan.
春节前夕，这些人员集中返乡，所以这些重点人员的基数本身就比较大。
On the eve of Spring Festival, these people return home, so the base of these key personnel itself is larger.
“从浙江省现在发病数最高的温州、台州地区来看，这两个地区本身就是在武汉经商、学习、工作人数最多的两个地区，这和我们的基数是匹配的。
"From the Wenzhou and Taizhou regions, which now have the highest number of cases in Zhejiang Province, the two regions themselves are the two regions with the highest number of people doing business, studying and working in Wuhan, which matches our base.
”第二个原因，是浙江政府比较早地对疫情防控做了部署，对重点人员的排查和密切接触人群的隔离观察，落实到浙江省的每一个街道组织、村镇，几乎做到了极致。
"The second reason is that the Zhejiang government had earlier made arrangements for epidemic prevention and control, and carried out checks on key personnel and isolated observation of close contact with people in every street organization and village in Zhejiang Province, almost to the limit.
据八点健闻整理发现，早在1月21日，浙江省长袁家军就在浙大一院召开了疫情防控座谈会，并将之称为是一场“硬仗大仗”。
As early as January 21, Yuan Jiajun, Zhejiang University president, held a symposium on the prevention and control of the epidemic at the Zhejiang University campus, calling it a "hard fight."
而在当时，浙江仅仅是发现了5例疑似病例。
At the time, Zhejiang had found only five suspected cases.
会后，浙江省各医疗机构将医院力量着重分配到发热门诊。
After the meeting, Zhejiang medical institutions will focus on the distribution of hospital strength to the fever clinic.
浙江省第一时间公布了11个市的发热门诊及疾控中心24小时值班电话；第一时间确定并公布了省市县三级95间定点医院，335个发热门诊。
Zhejiang Province first announced the first 11 city fever clinics and CDC 24-hour telephone call; the first time identified and announced the provincial and municipal level of 95 designated hospitals, 335 fever clinics.
一位在浙江省某三甲医院工作的医生说，1月17日开始，浙江省级的三甲医院紧急召集，开传达会议。
A doctor working at a three-A hospital in Zhejiang province said the Sanjia hospital in Zhejiang Province was called urgently for a meeting starting on January 17.
连续三天，强调在院研究生和住院医护人员一定要参加。
Three consecutive days, the emphasis in the hospital graduate students and hospital medical personnel must participate.
连开了五六场，让所有人务必去一场。
Five or six games in a row. Let's make sure everyone goes.
每场持续半个小时到一个小时，主要是当时的疫情传达，然后注意接诊时的病史和症状询问，注意有没有武汉的接触史。
Each session lasted from half an hour to an hour, mainly the transmission of the epidemic, then pay attention to the medical history of admission and symptoms inquiry, pay attention to whether there is Wuhan contact history.
同样是在1月21日的疫情防控座谈会上，浙江省提出了“五个严格，十个最”的具体举措，号召动员全社会的力量，排摸传染源，重点是排查近一个月去过或接触过武汉及周边地区的人员。
Also in January 21, the epidemic prevention and control seminar, Zhejiang Province put forward "five strict, ten most" concrete measures, calling for the mobilization of the entire community, the source of infection, the focus is on the last month has visited or contacted Wuhan and surrounding areas.
1月21日当晚，浙江省卫健委发布《武汉回浙人员须知》，要求近期从武汉回浙的人员不要外出参加聚会，避免去人群密集场所，必须外出时要戴口罩。
On the night of January 21, Zhejiang Wei Bodyguard Commission issued "Wuhan Zhejiang personnel notice," the recent demand from Wuhan Zhejiang Province personnel not to go to parties, avoid crowds of places, had to wear masks when going out.
如有发热、呼吸道感染等症状，及时到当地医疗机构发热门诊就诊。
If there is fever, respiratory tract infection and other symptoms, timely to the local medical institutions fever clinic.
在具体方法上，浙江鼓励基层根据自身情况大胆创新。
In the concrete method, Zhejiang encourages grass-roots innovation boldly according to its own situation.
启动一级响应的第二天，台州全市公众聚集场所一律临时关闭，公众集聚活动一律取消，重点区域及主要道路出入口等一律实施体温测量。
The day after the first response was launched, all public gathering places in Taizhou were temporarily closed, public gatherings were cancelled, and temperature measurements were taken in key areas and main road entrances and exits.
温州泰顺新兴村的村干部用妇女们平时跳广场舞的拉杆音箱，从村头拖到村尾，挨家挨户循环播放疫情防控知识。
Village officials in the village of Taishun, Wenzhou, use women's usual piazza-dancing boom boxes to drag from the village head to the end of the village, circulating epidemic prevention and control knowledge door to door.
杭州滨江新州社区的基层工作人员动员物业和业委会，一天时间完成小区2200多户业主的排查……如何发挥基层组织的作用？温州市，是浙江省确诊病例最多的城市。
Grass-roots staff of the Binjiang New State Community in Hangzhou mobilized the Property and Industry Commission to complete the screening of more than 2,200 owners in a single day... How to play the role of grass-roots organizations? Wenzhou is the city with the highest number of confirmed cases in Zhejiang Province.
截至1月26日24时，已有32例确诊，高于杭州市的27例。
As of 2400 hours on January 26, 32 cases had been confirmed, up from 27 in Hangzhou.
虽然温州去湖北务工的人数不多，但常年以来，温州和湖北省生意往来的人数，在整个浙江省是最多的。
Although the number of people from Wenzhou to Hubei Province is small, the number of people doing business in Wenzhou and Hubei provinces has been the highest in Zhejiang Province over the years.
据当地商会统计，温州在武汉经商、务工、就学有十几万人，前期经过劝阻提醒，仍有大量人员春节返温。
According to local Chamber of Commerce statistics, Wenzhou in Wuhan business, migrant workers, study hundreds of thousands of people, early after dissuasion, there are still a large number of people warming up.
经排摸，截至1月27日，返温人员约2.63万人，其中武汉封城后抵温的，3天时间就达9800多人。
As of January 27, about 26,300 people had returned to the city, including more than 9,800 people who had arrived in Wuhan after the city was sealed.
这些人均属于高危人群，有些在武汉已被感染，回温后发病，发病曲线与回温人流高潮成正比，比如鹿城、乐清和瑞安病例数较多，也与这些地方返温人数成正比。
These are high-risk groups, some in Wuhan has been infected, after the re-temperature onset of the disease curve and the return flow of people in direct proportion to the number of cases, such as Lucheng, Yueqing and Ryan, also proportional to the number of people warming in these places.
1月23日，温州市某村村长接到了浙江省下发的整体防控的要求。
On January 23, the mayor of a village in Wenzhou received a request for overall control from Zhejiang Province.
在整体防控要求下，村委会自己又制定了一个详细的工作步骤：1、着重排查武汉返回人员，进而对其进行居家隔离观察，并对居家观察人员家庭张贴温馨提示；2、居住在本村的武汉籍人员，要跟踪排查其行程；3、其他非本地人士以及曾经到过湖北的人士也是排查对象（排查依据：三大电信运营商数据）；4、本村拥有武汉居住证的本地人员的行踪情况；5、近期在湖北住宿名单内的本村村民行踪和体温情况；6、本村内及途经本村的湖北籍车辆排查；7、排查并关停人员聚集场所，如足浴店、宗教场所等；8、通知酒店等人员密集场所，要求测量体温和停用中央空调；9、通知企业对湖北籍务工人员疫情解除后再回；10、张贴宣传横幅。
In the context of the overall control requirements, the village committee itself set up a detailed work steps: 1, focus on screening Wuhan returnees, then their home quarantine observation, and home observation, such as home observation of the local residents of the village, to track the whereabouts of local residents of the village and have visited Hubei;
除夕那天，这项工作是村长负责，大年初一是村支书负责。
On New Year's Eve, the village chief is responsible for this work, the first day is responsible for the village.
大年初二开始，村委会全体出动，一起加班。
New Year's Day began, the village committee all out to work overtime together.
每天早上8点，村委会成员去村里，主要做的事情是排查往来武汉人员，最早是挨家挨户，当摸排过了一轮后，不用挨家挨户，随后是电话跟访。
Every morning at 8 a.m., members of the village committee go to the village, the main thing is to do is to check the traffic in Wuhan, the first is door-to-door, after the feel of a round, do not need door-to-door, followed by telephone follow-up.
这位村长谈到，排查人员，在各方面的配合下，难度并不大。
The village chief spoke of the fact that it was not very difficult for the inspectors to cooperate in any way.
他们有一个名单，汇总了武汉返回温州的人口情况。
They have a list of people who have returned to Wenzhou in Wuhan.
其中，数据直接跟民航系统、铁路系统打通，由温州市发给各个区，然后区里发到街道，最后到各个村。
Among them, the data directly with the civil aviation system, the railway system, from Wenzhou to the districts, then to the streets, and finally to the villages.
人员名单每天都会更新。
The list of names is updated daily.
他所在的村里目前总计有三户是从武汉回来的，根据名单，村委会先电话跟他们要返回的人员的联系方式，先确定出行情况。
According to the list, the village committee first called the contact information of the people they wanted to return to and made sure of the trip.
“人还没到温州，我们就先联系上了。
"We'll get in touch before we get to Wenzhou.
”其中一户的居民，春节之前去武汉要账，当时人还没回到温州，村里电话就打过去，要求他自行隔离。
One of the residents went to Wuhan before the Spring Festival to ask for accounts. Before he returned to Wenzhou, the village called and asked him to isolate himself.
他们家还有一套空置的房子，在距离这个村8公里的小区。
The family also has an empty house in a small area 8 kilometers from the village.
他回来之后，没有回村里，直接去那套空房子里，自己一个人单独隔离。
When he returned, he did not return to the village, but went straight to the empty house and isolated himself.
在其它村里，一些没有多套房子的人员，由区政府安排酒店，在酒店单独隔离。
In other villages, some people who do not have more than one house are housed separately in hotels arranged by the district government.
此外，在高速公路上，也进行返温人员排查。
In addition, on the expressway, a thermostat check is also conducted.
如果遇到鄂牌车辆，会让他们停下来，询问及量体温，视情况进行单独隔离。
If they encounter an E-card vehicle, they will be asked to stop, question and take temperature, isolated as appropriate.
那些隔离在家的人，在第一轮上门排查过后，村委会每天电话跟踪，中午给他们打电话，确认有没有出门。
After the first round of door-to-door searches, the village council calls them every day and calls them at noon to make sure they're out of the house.
每天安排医护人员上门查体温。
Arrange medical staff to check body temperature every day.
每天把隔离人员和当天的排查情况上报给街道，每天两次，上午11至12点一次，下午4点一次。
Isolators and day-to-day screening are reported to the street twice a day, 11 to 12 a.m. and 4 p.m.
街道再逐级向上汇报。
The streets are reported back up.
上报的内容包括：根据民航、铁路的名单，每天排查疑似人口及密切接触人口的情况；疑似病例每天的体温情况。
According to the civil aviation and railway lists, daily census of the suspected population and close contact with the population, and the daily temperature of suspected cases are reported.
对当地居民的宣教也是极其重要的一环。
The education of the local population is also of the utmost importance.
村里在年前就停止了所有的宗教活动。
All religious activities in the village ceased before the year before.
和其它地方情况类似，当地居民中的年轻人比较配合，几乎都戴口罩，但是老年人不太在意。
Similar to other places, the local population of young people are more cooperative, almost all wearing masks, but elderly people do not care.
如果村委会看到敬老院、祠堂、榕树下、小卖部附近有老年人聚集，村委会会去提醒，但有些老人还是不太听劝。
If the village committee saw elderly people gathered around the ancestral home, ancestral hall, banyan tree, commissary, the village committee would remind, but some elderly people are not very persuaded.
对于当地的菜市场，从1月28日开始，消费者和经营者进菜市场都要测体温。
For the local vegetable market, from January 28 onwards, consumers and operators enter the market to take temperature tests.
突发事件中的人性化自从1月24日武汉“封城”，对人员进出实行严格管制以后，大量此前出境旅游的武汉市民在返回时，只能改签航班，在国内其它城市先行落脚。
Since the closure of Wuhan on January 24, a large number of Wuhan city residents who had previously traveled abroad had to change flights to take up residence in other cities of the country after strict controls were imposed on the entry and exit of people.
过去的三天，杭州成了接收武汉游客最多的城市之一。
In the past three days, Hangzhou has become one of the most tourist-receiving cities in Wuhan.
根据杭州官方通报，截至目前，已有4架载有武汉乘客的航班降落杭州萧山机场，其中就包括了一架总共载有116名武汉乘客的TR188次航班。
Up to now, four flights carrying Wuhan passengers have landed at Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport, including one TR188 carrying a total of 116 Wuhan passengers, Hangzhou said.
这无疑给已经非常严峻的浙江疫情防控工作带来了巨大挑战。
There is no doubt that this has brought great challenges to the prevention and control of the Zhejiang epidemic.
根据浙江卫健委的官方通报，截至1月26日，浙江确诊的128例病例中，就有2例来自于TR188次航班。
As of January 26, two of the 128 cases confirmed in Zhejiang had come from flight TR188, according to the official report from Zhejiang Wei Jiancommittee.
这架航班属于新加坡航空下属的酷航，于1月24日晚上10点多飞抵萧山机场，飞机上除了有原先就搭乘该航班的219名杭州旅客外，还临时增加了116名武汉旅客。
The flight, owned by Singapore Airlines, arrived at Xiaoshan Airport at 10: 00 pm on January 24, adding 116 passengers to the 219 who had previously flown there.
酷航方面表示，这116名武汉旅客是因为原本飞往武汉的航班取消，所以自发改签为飞往杭州。
Cruise said the 116 Wuhan passengers because the original flight to Wuhan canceled, so spontaneously re-signed to Hangzhou.
航班的突发安排，难免导致同行者的不满。
The unexpected arrangement of the flight inevitably leads to the dissatisfaction of the fellow passengers.
据多位乘坐此航班的杭州乘客表示，他们事先对有武汉乘客搭乘同一航班并不知情。
According to Hangzhou passengers aboard the flight, they had no prior knowledge of Wuhan passengers on the same flight.
“我们是等到飞机落地后，听到广播里说，武汉籍的游客请坐在原位不要动，才知道同行的有武汉人。
"We waited until the plane landed and heard on the radio that Wuhan-born tourists please sit in their seats and do not move.
”其中一位乘客告诉八点健闻。
One of the passengers told the eight-minute news.
他们的担心并非多余，经过排查，116名武汉乘客中有2人出现发热症状，落地后被直接送往就近的萧山区第一人民医院，并于次日确诊为感染了新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Their fears were not superfluous. After a thorough examination, two of the 116 Wuhan passengers developed fever symptoms and were taken directly to the nearest Xiao Shan People's Hospital, where they were diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia the next day.
同机的其它114名武汉乘客被临时安排在机场附近的宝盛道谷酒店暂时隔离。
The other 114 Wuhan passengers on board were temporarily quarantined at the Po Shing Road Valley Hotel near the airport.
让武汉乘客感到温暖的是，他们的生活条件得到了比较好的保障：每人一间房，一日三餐由酒店供应，每个楼层的电梯口有公安人员值守，产生的生活垃圾也由专人负责清运处理，确保疫情不会在杭州当地发生蔓延。
To the warmth of Wuhan passengers, their living conditions have been better guaranteed: one room per person, three meals a day provided by the hotel, each floor of the elevator at the entrance to the public security personnel, the generated domestic waste is also handled by special personnel to ensure that the epidemic does not spread in Hangzhou.
杭州市疾控中心副主任陈珺芳表示，对这些武汉乘客，杭州市政府派出了3个行动组。
Chen Zhenfang, deputy director of Hangzhou CDC, said the Hangzhou municipal government sent three action teams to the Wuhan passengers.
一组是医疗组，由萧山卫生系统抽调，负责每天早晚的体温监测，一旦发现有发烧、咳嗽等情况，需要立即上报给疾控中心；第二组是生活保障组，由酒店和当地街道的工作人员组成，负责一日三餐，同时也帮忙代购药品或其它生活必需品。
The second is the CDC. The second is a life support group consisting of hotel and local street workers who are responsible for three meals a day while helping to purchase medicines or other necessities.
第三组是安全保障，由公安系统负责。
The third is security, which is the responsibility of the public security system.
而对于同机的219名杭州乘客，出于稳妥考虑，杭州市政府将他们安置在了位于杭州市西南方向的市委党校，同样是一人一间房，每天接受体温检测，只有连续14天没有出现异常，才能解除隔离回家。
As for the 219 Hangzhou passengers on the same plane, the Hangzhou municipal government, out of concern, placed them in the same one-person, one-room party school in the southwest of Hangzhou.
杭州市民刘先生和家人都在这架航班上。
Mr. Liu, a citizen of Hangzhou, and his family are on this flight.
在进入杭州市委党校之前，他们每个人都领到了两张单子，一张是《来杭人员集中医学观察告知书》，上面写着观察期限“自1月25日起至2月7日止”。
Before entering the Hangzhou Municipal Party School, each of them was given two lists, one of which was "Notice on Concentration of Medical Observation by Hangzhou Personnel," which says that the observation period is "from January 25 to February 7.
另一张是一个二维码，可以扫描进群，200多名乘客和相关工作人员都在群里，主要用于日常交流。
The other is a two-dimensional code that scans the incoming group, with more than 200 passengers and associated personnel in the group, primarily for daily communication.
刘先生说，一开始大家的情绪都比较激动，一来是因为航空公司事先并没有告知他们会有武汉乘客同行，导致他们都有被感染的风险。
At first, Mr. Liu said, 'Everyone was excited because the airlines didn't tell them they would have Wuhan passengers, which put them at risk of infection.
二来是大多数人都着急回家和亲人过年，可现在一隔离就是14天，多少有点怨气。
The second is that most people are anxious to go home and relatives to celebrate the New Year, but now a separation is 14 days, somewhat resentful.
但现在，大家都平静下来了。
But now everyone has calmed down.
在这里待了两天，他们发现政府提供的服务非常到位。
After two days here, they found that the services provided by the government were in place.
一日三餐有专人送到门口，头一天晚上吃的是梅干菜烧肉和水煮牛肉，吃好后放回门口就行。
Three meals a day by hand to the door, the first night to eat dried prunes cooked meat and boiled beef, eat it and put back to the door.
有急需的东西，比如说药品、奶粉什么的，在群里说一下，就有人买好送来，不用掏钱。
There is a much-needed thing, such as medicine, powdered milk and so on, said in the group, someone bought and delivered, do not pay for it.
因为宾馆不能开中央空调，工作人员还给每个人发了个热水袋。
Since the hotel could not operate the central air conditioner, the staff also gave everyone a hot water bag.
“听说还搞了一个临时家人送货点，可以让家人把需要的东西拿过来，工作人员再给我们送上门。
"I heard there was also a temporary family delivery point where the family could bring what they needed and the staff would deliver it to us.
”此外，为了避免交叉感染，杭州市委党校27日还在两个楼层试用了机器人送餐服务，预计第二天16个机器人就能全部上岗，承担所有楼层的送餐任务。
In addition, to avoid cross-infection, Hangzhou Municipal Party School on the 27th floor of the robot delivery service was also piloted in two floors, the next day is expected to be full 16 robots to take on all the tasks of delivery on all floors.
1月25日晚，又有3架载有武汉乘客的国际航班（AK1574、CA734、MF8642）降落杭州萧山机场。
On the night of January 25, three more international flights carrying Wuhan passengers (AK1574, CA734, MF8642) landed at Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport.
3架飞机上共有武汉乘客25名，其中有1名发热病人，已送定点医院治疗，其余24名安排在定点宾馆医学观察。
There were 25 Wuhan passengers on board the three aircraft, including one feverish patient, who was taken to a designated hospital for treatment and the remaining 24 were placed under medical observation at designated hotels.
因为实验室诊断该发热病人系普通发热，同机的其他乘客在集中等候数小时后解散。
Because the lab diagnosed the feverish patient as a normal febrile, the other passengers on the same plane dissolved after several hours of intensive waiting.
在1月28日萧山区政府的通报中，包括通过机场输入的二例病例在内，目前萧山区的四例确诊病例均未二次传染。
In a report from the government of Xiaoshan on January 28, four confirmed cases, including two imported through the airport, have not been re-infected.
这四名病人情绪稳定，病情也趋于好转，其中三名体温已恢复正常，另一名患者的症状也有所缓解。
The four patients were in stable mood and tended to improve, with three having recovered their temperature and the other showing signs of remission.
毛晓琼 吴晔婷王晨|撰稿识别二维码查看新型冠状病毒疫情跟踪我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Ms. Mao selected Wang Chen & # 44; # 124; Writing Identity 2-D Code to View New Coronavirus Outbreak Tracking We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当载满武汉人的航班降落，浙江省人性化应对的底气从何而来？。
When the flights full of Wuhan people landed, Zhejiang humanized response to the bottom from where?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "当载满武汉人的航班降落，浙江省人性化应对的底气从何而来？";。
Where did Zhejiang's humanitarian response come from when a plane carrying Wuhan people landed?;
var msg_desc = "面对重大疫情时，大三甲医院只是最后一道防线。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
