千人医疗队驰援武汉，诊治难度并无想象中可怕，未来最大挑战来自武汉之外。
Thousands of medical teams rushed to Wuhan, the difficulties of diagnosis and treatment is not imagined terrible, the greatest future challenges from outside Wuhan.
晔婷 卓曌 敏华。
Ye Zhong Min Hua.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
支援武汉的医护人员已上千，地方900多人，军队450人，随后将再派1600多人。
Wuhan has thousands of medical personnel, more than 900 places, 450 troops, and then will send more than 1,600 people.
武汉医护人员身心俱疲，难以应对不断增长的病例和民众的恐慌。
Wuhan medical personnel are exhausted, unable to cope with the growing number of cases and public panic.
外援的到来，缓解了他们的负担。
The arrival of foreign aid eased their burden.
不少援汉医护人员感到，仅从肺炎诊治难度而言，并没有想象中可怕。
Many Chinese paramedics feel that the difficulty of treating pneumonia alone is not as frightening as it might seem.
接下来武汉之外的疫情更让人担心，很多地方物资与人员更是紧缺，技术能力也比武汉差很多。
The epidemic outside Wuhan is more worrying, with many places facing shortages of supplies and personnel and far worse technological capabilities than Wuhan.
“武汉，到了，雨，寒风凛冽。
Wuhan, here comes the rain, chilly wind.
”广州医科大学附属第一医院心血管内科主任医师陈爱兰大年初一（1月25日）在她的朋友圈中记录。
"Chen Erlan, chief physician of cardiovascular medicine at Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, wrote in her circle of friends on January 25.
同一天，来自上海一家医院重症科护士黄燕（化名），在抵达武汉之后，为了第二天工作不碍事，剪去了自己的长发。
On the same day, Huang Yan (alias), an intensive care nurse from a Shanghai hospital, cut off her long hair in order to work the next day in Wuhan.
她们都是第一批支援武汉的医疗救治队成员，目前抵达武汉的已经1300多人。
They were among the first medical teams to support Wuhan, where more than 1,300 people have arrived.
武汉医务人员和医疗物资的紧缺，难以应对不断增长的病例，和裹挟在各种恐慌情绪中，大量涌入大医院的患者以及家属。
Wuhan is short of medical staff and supplies to cope with the growing number of cases, and in a variety of panic, a large influx of patients and family members.
除夕夜（24日），一位医生在朋友圈说：“我们已经顶不住了，门诊挤满了病人，24小时都满满的……我们的防护用具也已经用光了，防护服、口罩、……都用完了”。
On New Year's Eve, a doctor said in a circle of friends: "We were overwhelmed. The clinic was full of patients... we ran out of protective gear, protective clothing, masks, etc."
外援医生们的到来，犹如一场及时雨，缓解了他们的负担。
The arrival of foreign aid doctors, like a timely rain, relieved their burden.
昨天下午国新办的发布会上，卫健委主任马晓伟介绍，武汉新开放了2400张床位，未来三天，武汉还有可能开放近5000张床位。
Wuhan, which opened 2,400 beds in Wuhan yesterday afternoon, is likely to open nearly 5,000 beds in the next three days, said Ma Xiaowei, director of the National Health Center.
医疗资源紧张、住不进去院的情况将会有所缓解。
The shortage of medical resources and the lack of access to hospitals will be alleviated.
对于疫情，一位上海支援医护人员对八点健闻说，重症患者的病情比想象的要严重，但轻症患者的治疗难度并不大，大部分可以治愈。
In response to the outbreak, a Shanghai medical support worker told Eight-point Jiangnan that the serious cases were worse than expected, but that the treatment for the mild cases was not so difficult and most of them could be cured.
上海市浦南医院呼吸科主任赵云峰说，目前上海医疗队是按照国家卫健委1月23日发布的第三版新型冠状病毒诊疗指南来实施具体的治疗工作。
Zhao Yun-feng, the respiratory director of Shanghai's Poonan Hospital, said the Shanghai medical team was carrying out treatment in accordance with the nation's third edition of the guidelines for diagnosing coronavirus on January 23.
“其实目前没有特效抗病毒药物，基本上就是对症治疗，积极防治并发症，提高免疫力。
"In fact, there is no specific antiviral drugs, basically is symptomatic treatment, active prevention and treatment of complications, improve immunity.
有些病人免疫功能逐渐恢复，病毒的毒性逐渐下降，慢慢也就康复了。
Some patients gradually restore immune function, virus toxicity gradually declined, and slowly recovered.
”上海市医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏在他的文章中分析：通过对所有发病患者的收治，不出2周，武汉实报病例应该能出现拐点。
In his article, Zhang Wenhong, head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group and director of the Infection Department at Huashan Hospital, said: "By treating all patients, Wuhan should be able to report cases of inflection within two weeks.
上千名医护人员支援武汉国家卫健委主任马晓伟在昨天下午的新闻发布会上说，已经派出7支900多人的医疗救治队伍驰援武汉，军队派出了450人的医疗队，随后还将再派出12支1600多人的队伍。
At a press conference yesterday afternoon, Ma Xiawei, director of the Wuhan National Fitness and Health Commission, said that more than 700 medical treatment teams had been dispatched to Wuhan, and 450 medical teams from the army were dispatched, followed by another 12 dozen or more.
最早出发的是军医。
The first person to leave was a military doctor.
1月24日除夕夜，上海大雨。
On January 24, New Year's Eve, heavy rain in Shanghai.
在万家灯火团圆之时，上海第二军医大学（海军）150名医护人员集结完毕，在夜幕中乘坐空军包机直飞武汉。
As the lights reunited, 150 medical personnel from Shanghai's Second Military University (Navy) assembled and flew directly to Wuhan on an air charter at night.
陆军军医大学、空军军医大学医疗队则分别从重庆、西安抵达武汉。
Army Medical University and Air Force Medical University medical team from Chongqing, Xi'an arrived in Wuhan.
从24日凌晨接到援助通知到医疗队伍完成抽组，陆军军医大学仅用了6小时。
From the early morning of the 24th to the medical team to complete the withdrawal team, the Army Medical University only took six hours.
这些军医医疗队中，不少曾执行过抗击非典、抗震救灾、援非抗埃等重大任务。
Many of these medical and medical teams have carried out major tasks such as fighting SARS, earthquake relief and aiding Africa and Ethiopia.
Play与此同时，空军航空兵某师派出3架军用运输机，连夜分赴上海、西安、重庆执行医疗队员和医疗物资器材紧急空运任务。
Meanwhile, an Air Force division dispatched three military transport planes to Shanghai, Xi'an and Chongqing overnight to carry out emergency airlift of medical personnel and medical equipment.
紧随其后，1月25日凌晨，上海医疗队抵达武汉，他们来自该市52家不同医院，共136人，包括呼吸科、感染性疾病科、医院感染管理科、重症医学科和护理部门等。
Immediately afterwards, in the early morning of 25 January, the Shanghai medical team arrived in Wuhan, from 52 different hospitals in the city, with 136 people, including the respiratory department, infectious diseases department, hospital infection management section, severe medicine department and nursing department.
上海医疗队的工作重点一是帮助金银潭医院扩建ICU病房，二是进入医院已有病区支援。
The focus of the Shanghai Medical Team is to help the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital expand the ICU ward.
Play广东医疗队128人也于凌晨2点到达。
128 members of the Play Guangdong Medical Team also arrived at 2 a.m.
医疗队将对口援助武汉市汉口医院，接管武汉市汉口医院2个病区。
The medical team will provide assistance to Hankou Hospital in Wuhan and take over two sick areas of Hankou Hospital in Wuhan.
下午，浙江医疗队135人抵达；晚上，四川医疗队138人抵达，对武汉红十字会医院进行支援。
In the afternoon, 135 members of Zhejiang Medical Team arrived. In the evening, 138 members of Sichuan Medical Team arrived to provide support to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
此外，江苏、湖南、山东等省也迅速组建医疗队，前往武汉市金银潭医院、汉口医院、武昌医院等定点医院，开展救援。
In addition, medical teams were quickly set up in Jiangsu, Hunan and Shandong provinces to visit designated hospitals such as Jintan Hospital, Hankou Hospital and Wuchang Hospital in Wuhan City.
陈爱兰抵达武汉当日上午的工作会议部署了具体的任务，下午包括她在内的第一批抵达的医生们进行了最严格的防护措施和要求训练。
Chen Eilan arrived in Wuhan on the morning of the working session of the deployment of specific tasks, including her first arrival in the afternoon of the doctors carried out the most stringent protective measures and requirements training.
26日深夜，她写道“又是凌晨，希望后面按部就班，顺利运作，平安健康每一天。
"It was early morning," she wrote late on the 26th. "I hope it will follow the procedure and work smoothly and healthily every day.
”目前没有好的药物，但绝大部分患者可被治愈剪去了长发的黄燕，未来一段日子都要守着金银潭医院。
There are no good drugs, but most patients can be cured of yellow swallows with their long hair cut off and will have to guard the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital for some time to come.
这里是此次肺炎疫情最初的定点医院，上海的救援医疗队接管了两层病区，其中二楼收治30名轻症患者，三楼收治了27名重症患者。
Rescue teams in Shanghai took over the two-storey area, with 30 light cases on the second floor and 27 patients on the third floor.
在澎湃拍摄的一段视频中，金银潭医院的医护人员向上海医疗队的医护人员交接时说：“病人比你们想象的情况要重一点。
"The patient is a little heavier than you think," he said in a video of the hospital staff handing over to the medical staff of the Shanghai medical team.
”“哪个病房的病人最重？”“都很重”。
"" Which ward was the heaviest? "" Both were heavy.
△ 1月26日，上海援鄂医疗队第六人民医院重症医学科副主任医师汪伟在金银潭医院值首个夜班。
On January 26, Wang Wei, deputy director of severe medicine at the Sixth People's Hospital of the Shanghai Medical Team Hubei, performed his first night shift at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
来源：澎湃新闻上海第一人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科周新教授曾抢救了上海第一例SARS病人，他对澎湃新闻表示，武汉的医疗条件比想象的要简易，但比非典时期好。
Source: Pai Pai News Shanghai First People's Hospital Respiratory and Critical Medicine Professor Zhou Xin, the first case of SARS in Shanghai, told the roar news that medical treatment in Wuhan was easier than expected but better than during SARS.
一位组织医生救治队的四川某医院管理层表示，派出的医护人员心态都比较好，仅从此次肺炎诊治难度而言，并没有想象可怕。
The management of a hospital in Sichuan, which organises a medical treatment team, said the mentality of the hospital staff sent were better, only from the difficulty of treating pneumonia, not to imagine terrible.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇在接受采访时说：“虽然目前没有好的药物治疗，但70%患者都很轻微，绝大部分可被治愈”。
"Although there is no good medication available, 70 percent of the patients are very mild and the vast majority can be cured," Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told an interview.
他所在的病区，单独隔离出了一个ICU病区，设置了16张病床，收治重症肺炎患者。
His ward, isolated from an ICU ward, has 16 beds for patients with severe pneumonia.
“16张病床，永远都是满的，出来一个，马上又有一个病人要进来，基本上每天都有两三个病人能够转到轻微的病房去。
"" Sixteen beds, always full, come out one, another patient is coming in, basically two or three patients a day can be transferred to the mild ward.
”中国疾控中心（CDC）流行病学首席科学家曾光也说，死亡率是传染病中的关键指标，仅从当前的死亡率看，此次新型冠状病毒肺炎不如SARS严重。
Zeng Guang, chief epidemiologist at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), also said the death rate is a key indicator of infectious disease and that the new coronavirus pneumonia is not as severe as SARS in current mortality rates alone.
根据临床观察，最终使用激素的危重病例很少。
According to clinical observations, the number of critical cases of final hormonal use is very low.
而当年SARS时期，很多患者后期都需要呼吸机和插管，这次并没有。
In the SARS period, many patients needed ventilators and intubation later in life, but this time they did not.
医护人员面临更大的挑战，还是当地人群的焦虑。
The bigger challenge for health care workers is the anxiety of the local population.
大众的恐慌已超过疾病的严重程度张文宏的文章中，引用了中国著名的病毒学家闻玉梅院士对疫情的的看法，她说“现在全国一片恐慌，但防疫有其自身规律，目前需要的是理性科学对待。
In her article, Zhang Wenhong, a famous virologist in China, quoted a well-known Chinese virologist, Wen Yumei, who said: "There is a national panic, but epidemic prevention has its own laws, what is needed is rational science.
早期武汉疫情是盲目乐观，现在过度恐慌，反而不能科学对待眼前的疫情”。
The early Wuhan epidemic is blind optimism, now excessive panic, but not scientific treatment of the current epidemic. "
一位武汉协和的外科医生，1月25日在文章《武汉一医生的心声》中谈及目前各种谣言漫天飞，“日均要在微信上辟谣20次以上，原因是大众的恐慌已远远大过疾病的严重程度，反思“因为这次疾病症状比较轻，所以一开始大家并没有重视”；但是同样因为症状比较轻，呼吁大家“不要过于恐慌”。
A Wuhan Concorde surgeon, speaking on January 25 in the article "The voice of a doctor in Wuhan," said the rumors are flying more than 20 times a day, "because the public panic has greatly exceeded the severity of the disease," reflection "because the symptoms of the disease relatively light, so people did not pay attention to," but also because the symptoms are relatively light, appeal to "not too panic.
恐慌来自小道消息铺天盖地：“在武汉上空开始播撒消毒粉液”、“武汉卫健委领导感染后逃往上海”、“武汉断油”……尤其是封城以后，城中之人害怕自己是下一个“中招者”，一有感冒发烧症状，就纷纷涌向医院。
The panic came from rumors: "over Wuhan began to sow disinfectant powder," "Wuhan health committee leader fled to Shanghai after the infection," "Wuhan severed oil..." Especially after the closure of the city, people fear that they are the next "recruit," the flu fever symptoms, rushed to the hospital.
谣言引发焦虑。
Rumors set off anxiety.
在武汉市，疑似患者的诊断滞后，更加剧了这种焦虑，并导致医院里的人潮滞留，加剧医护人员的情绪崩溃。
In Wuhan, the diagnosis of suspected patients lags behind, exacerbating the anxiety and leading to hospital congestion, exacerbating the emotional breakdown of medical staff.
大量发烧，肺部CT显示疑似肺炎的疑似患者，在过去的一周里面临着医疗资源有限，得不到医院及时收治的尴尬处境。
A large number of fever, lung CT shows suspected pneumonia patients, in the past week faced with limited medical resources, hospital admission in the embarrassing situation.
更加剧恐慌情绪的是，作为最好的确诊方式，病毒检测并不那么容易获得，所以人们难以判定自己究竟是普通的流感，还是新型冠状病毒的感染者。
What added to the panic was the fact that the best way to diagnose the virus was not so easily available, making it difficult for people to determine whether they were common or infected with the new coronavirus.
通常而言，病原检测至多不过一天。
Typically, the pathogen is tested for no more than a day.
一位到上海某三甲医院就诊的患者，其时间节点大致如此：第一天深夜到医院急诊，根据从武汉抵沪、发烧及肺部CT结果，确定为疑似病例，在院内进行隔离治疗。
The time node for a patient visiting a Shanghai triple-A hospital was roughly the same: the first day of the night in the hospital emergency, according to Wuhan arrival, fever and lung CT results, identified as a suspected case, the hospital for isolation treatment.
这个阶段主要是开具退烧药和抗病毒的达菲。
This stage is mainly to issue antipyretics and antiviral Tamiflu.
第二天上午，疾控中心到院内采样，带回疾控中心实验室进行检测分析。
The next morning, CDC took samples from the yard and brought them back to the CDC laboratory for testing and analysis.
阳性结果是第二天晚上九点左右得到。
Positive results were obtained at around 9 p.m. the following night.
第三天，疾控中心把患者从医院带到全市集中的隔离医院，类似“小汤山模式”，确诊患者在这里统一治疗。
On the third day, the CDC took patients from the hospital to a citywide quarantined hospital, similar to the "Xiaotangshan model," where patients were diagnosed and treated uniformly.
但这样的流程在武汉目前做不到。
But such a process is currently not possible in Wuhan.
财新记录过一位患者家属的经历：吴先生要求武汉红十字会医院给父亲做病毒检测，被告知医院没有测试病毒的试剂盒，不能做检测。
Mr. Wu asked Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to test his father for the virus. He was told that the hospital did not have a test kit for the virus and could not test it.
“不能检测，就不能确诊，不能确诊就很难住院。
"Without testing, it can't be diagnosed, it's very difficult to be hospitalized without a diagnosis.
不能住院，就没办法检测。
No hospitals. no way to test.
我们就一直在这个怪圈里绕不出来。
We just can't get around it all the time.
这个发热门诊和我父亲一样遭遇的人有很多。
There were many people at the fever clinic like my father.
”在1月23日晚间央视的《新闻1+1》节目上，主持人白岩松介绍了一线信息，其中也提到了同样的问题——收治的病人无法进行及时的病原检测，导致院内交叉感染存在。
On CCTV's "News 1 + 1" program on the evening of January 23, host Bai Yansong presented a first-line message that also raised the same problem - patients who were admitted were unable to undergo timely pathogen testing, leading to cross-infection in the hospital.
正如《武汉一医生的心声》中说，“这个时候你如果发烧了想来医院， 会发现你量个体温，前面有一百个人在排队，查个血又有一百个人，去做个CT又有一百个人......在等待的过程中，你会加重焦虑感和不安，最可怕的是，你很可能稀里糊涂的就真的被传染到！”目前，武汉的医院正在疏通此前滞留的患者人群。
"If you have a fever and want to come to the hospital, you'll find a hundred people in front of you queuing up for a blood check, a hundred more going on a CT scan and a hundred others... You'll get more anxiety and uneasiness while waiting.
同时，武汉从1月26日开始，已启动从社区层面的疫情排查，挨家挨户摸清情况，做好人群的居家隔离，避免过多的人群再继续涌入大医院。
Meanwhile, Wuhan has started a community-level epidemic since January 26 to find out the situation door-to-door, so as to keep the crowd at home and avoid a further influx of people into major hospitals.
医生们也提到，目前有一个特殊的情况，就是虽然发热门诊人满为患，但病房并没有住满。
Doctors also note that there is a special case of fever clinics being overcrowded, but the wards are not full.
一个原因可能是，此前有多名武汉医生院内交叉感染，有些在隔离，有些在住院，“医生不够，没有那么多人干活，就不能往（病房）里塞病人。
One reason may be that there were a number of Wuhan doctors hospital cross-infection, some in isolation, some in hospital, "doctors are not enough, there are not so many people to work, can not to the [ward].
”此外，物资匮乏也让武汉医生不敢再收病人进来。
"Wuhan doctors are also deterred from admitting patients because of lack of supplies.
疫情进入第二阶段，接下去最大挑战来自武汉之外医护人员支援武汉的同时，物资也正在支援。
The epidemic entered its second phase, and the next greatest challenge came from the support of medical staff and supplies from outside Wuhan.
武汉当前的医疗物资是很匮乏的，一位医生说，他们的防护设备只有500套，加上随队带去的物资，大概能用两、三天。
Wuhan is short of medical supplies at the moment, and a doctor says they have only 500 sets of protective equipment and can take about two or three days with the team.
但是他听说两天左右防护用品紧缺的情况可能会改善，因为捐赠的物资会陆续到位。
But he heard that shortages of protective equipment might improve in the next two days or so, as donations continue to arrive.
一位从武汉调任湖北某地市的卫生干部告诉八点健闻，随着医疗外援与物资的到位，他一点都不担心武汉的疫情会明显改善，更令人担心的是武汉之外。
A health cadre transferred from Wuhan to a city in Hubei Province told Eight JianWen that with the arrival of medical aid and materials, he did not worry about the situation in Wuhan will significantly improve, more worrying is outside Wuhan.
过去两天内，自己只睡了三个多小时，因为非常担心所在的地市会出现更多的疫情。
Over the past two days, I have only slept more than three hours because I am very worried about more outbreaks in my city.
据他所知，武汉封城之前，连夜跑了30万人，很多就是散落在湖北各地。
According to his knowledge, Wuhan before the closure of the city, running 300,000 people, many scattered throughout Hubei.
他所在的地市，24日确诊8人，25日确诊人数上升至21人。
His city, 24 confirmed 8 people, 25 confirmed to the number of 21.
“增长还是很快，不乐观，湖北其他城市也差不多。
"Growth is still rapid, not optimistic, Hubei other cities are similar.
”在这些地方，物资与人员更是紧缺，技术能力也比武汉差很多。
In these places, supplies and personnel are in short supply, and technical skills are much worse than in Wuhan.
他所在的地市已经通过社区向下派人做疫情排查，但是技术实力是个大问题。
His city has sent people down through the community to conduct an epidemic, but technical prowess is a big problem.
黄冈下属县人民医院的一位医生说，自1月19日起，那里的发热门诊人手完全不够，机器也累，人也累。
A doctor at the Wanggang County People's Hospital said there had been a complete shortage of staff, tired machines and people since January 19.
呼吸内科病人太多，内分泌科、肿瘤科等等的医生都来帮忙分诊，“都没有防护，只有帽子、口罩。
There are too many respiratory patients, endocrinology, oncology and other doctors to help diagnosis, "there is no protection, only hats, masks.
”医院四楼的感染科几乎已经住满了重症病人。
The infection section on the fourth floor of the hospital was almost full of seriously ill patients.
黄冈是武汉之外比较重灾的地方，原因是黄冈人在武汉打工的特别多，更容易出现输入性病例。
Huanggang is a place outside Wuhan more serious disaster, because the Huanggang people work in Wuhan, more easily imported cases.
1月26日下午，卫健委主任马晓伟在新闻发布会上也提到，从近期的临床资料来看，病毒的传播力有所增强，疫情传播速度还比较快。
In the afternoon of January 26, Wei Xiaowei director Ma Xiaowei also mentioned in the press conference, from recent clinical data, the transmission of the virus has increased, the spread of the epidemic is still relatively fast.
“现在疫情进入了一个比较严峻而复杂的时候，处于防控关键时期。
"Now the epidemic has entered a more serious and complex time, in a critical period of prevention and control.
”尤其困扰的是，从病人早期症状来看，体温往往不高或者正常，轻症病例较多，呈隐形感染的特点，因而行走的传染源大大增强了防控的难度。
Particularly troubling is the fact that the early stages of a patient's symptoms are often characterized by low or normal body temperature, a high number of mild cases and a hidden infection, making walking a source of infection much more difficult to control.
上海市医疗救治专家组组长张文宏的文章中分析，出现人传人之后的二代病例与三代病例，就标志着疫情进入了第二阶段，武汉乃至整个湖北出现病例数飙升实属意料之中。
Zhang Wenhong, head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group, analyzed that the emergence of second-generation and third-generation cases after human-to-human transmission marked the second phase of the epidemic, with a predictable surge in the number of cases in Wuhan and throughout Hubei Province.
接着最大的挑战就是各地的输入性病例。
The biggest challenge then is getting imported cases from all over the world.
其中的核心防治策略就是当地政府严格按照流程诚实的实施疫情管理，对所有潜在的输入性病例进行迅速有效的筛检，这个阶段怎么投入都不会白费。
The central strategy is for the local government to strictly follow the procedure of honest epidemic management, and to screen all potential imported cases quickly and effectively.
“抗击新型冠状病毒，到了目前这个阶段，比的已不仅仅是勇气，而是理性、耐心与科学了。
"To fight the new coronavirus, at this stage, it is not just courage, but reason, patience and science.
”今早，国家卫健委发布最新疫情通报：截至1月26日24时，国家卫健委收到30个省（区、市）累计报告新冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例2744例（26日新增769例），现有重症病例461例，累计死亡病例80例，累计治愈出院51例。
"This morning, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued an update on the situation. As of 2400 hours on January 26, the National Fitness and Health Commission had received a cumulative total of 2,744 confirmed cases (769 new cases on 26 days) of new coronavirus pneumonia.
现有疑似病例5794例。
There are 5794 suspected cases.
其中，湖北累计确诊1423例，武汉累计698例。
Among them, 1423 cases were diagnosed in Hubei province and 698 cases in Wuhan.
1月26日晚间，武汉市长周先旺在湖北政府新闻发布会上表示，武汉确诊病例可能再增加约1000例。
On the night of January 26, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang told a Hubei government news conference that the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan could increase by about 1,000.
吴晔婷 谭卓曌 季敏华|撰稿王吉陆|责编识别二维码查看新型冠状病毒疫情跟踪我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Wang selected her name at 2-D code to view the new coronavirus tracking. We respect original copyright and do not reprint it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
千人医疗队驰援武汉，诊治难度并无想象中可怕，未来最大挑战来自武汉之外。
Thousands of medical teams rushed to Wuhan, the difficulties of diagnosis and treatment is not imagined terrible, the greatest future challenges from outside Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "千人医疗队驰援武汉，诊治难度并无想象中可怕，未来最大挑战来自武汉之外";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "早期武汉疫情是盲目乐观，现在是过度恐慌";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
