不缺顶尖医院、有SARS前车之鉴，为何武汉仍然每一步都走晚了？。
There is no shortage of top-notch hospitals, there is a precedent for SARS, why Wuhan still go late every step?
王晨谭卓曌毛晓琼。
Wang Chen Tam Qiao Qiao Qiong.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
武汉各大医院发热门诊的紧张态势已有一周，七家定点医院启动才两天已被压到极限。
Wuhan major hospitals fever clinic tension has been a week, seven designated hospitals have been launched only two days have been stretched to the limit.
武汉不缺顶级医院，不缺顶级专家，不缺顶级医疗能力，缺的是公共卫生防控能力、行政效率和疫情处理流程。
Wuhan is not short of top-class hospitals, not a lack of top-level experts, not lack of top-level medical capacity, lack of public health control capacity, administrative efficiency and epidemic management processes.
在患者和大医疗机构之间，未见到基层医疗机构和基层社区组织的分流、筛选与疏导作用，导致患者自发、直接冲击大医疗机构。
Between patients and major medical institutions, there is no diversion, screening and channelling of primary health-care institutions and grass-roots community organizations, leading to spontaneous and direct attacks on large medical institutions.
17年前SARS战役的宝贵经验，本可应用于本次防疫，以更快的响应速度、更有序的社会动员、更低的经济成本，将不如SARS严重的疫情控制住。
The valuable experience of the SARS battle 17 years ago could have been applied to the epidemic, with faster response times, more orderly social mobilization, and lower economic costs that would not have been contained by the SARS epidemic.
然而事与愿违。
But it didn't work.
1月23日下午，武汉市第五医院的急诊室内，挤满了发热病人。
On the afternoon of January 23, the emergency room of Wuhan Fifth Hospital was full of febrile patients.
普通发热病人和疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎的病人挤在一起，他们不管是否符合入院指征，都在等待尽快住院。
Common fever patients and patients suspected of a new coronavirus pneumonia were huddled together, waiting to be hospitalized as soon as possible, whether or not they met the admission requirements.
人群越来越急躁。
The crowd grew impatient.
短短一个小时内，这些心急如焚的病人们为了能够住院，已和医护人员起了两次冲突。
Within an hour, the distraught patients clashed with paramedics twice to stay in hospital.
一位正在输液的发热病人，忽然情绪激动，将一把百元大钞洒向空中。
A feverish patient undergoing transfusion suddenly felt excited and poured a hundred-dollar bill into the air.
武汉市第五医院，刚被宣布为武汉七家收治发热病人的定点医院之一。
Wuhan Fifth Hospital has just been declared one of seven Wuhan designated hospitals for treating febrile patients.
这七家医院是在两天前的1月21日才接到通知，要求把病房改造成隔离病房，清退原有的住院病人，自1月23日下午6点起，对口接收来自大三甲医院的已确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎病人住院，并收治体温在37.3度以上的新的发热病人。
The seven hospitals were notified on January 21, two days ago, that they would be converted into isolation wards, that they would be discharged as inpatients, and that from 6: 00 pm on January 23, they would be hospitalized with the newly diagnosed coronavirus pneumonia patients from the University Sanjia Hospital and take in new patients with fever above 37.3 degrees.
与此同时，之前一周被大批患者冲击的的当地大三甲医院暂停收治发热病人。
Meanwhile, the local Big Three A hospital, which had been hit by a flood of patients the previous week, suspended treatment of febrile patients.
这一举措是为了防止大三甲医院的交叉感染（这些大医院已不断发现医护人员感染病例），并以“7+7”的结对方式进行管理，也即每家定点医院由一家三甲医院输出技术和管理。
The move is aimed at preventing cross-infection at the Big Three A hospitals, which have seen frequent cases of infection by health-care workers, and is managed as a "7 + 7" twinning, whereby each designated hospital is technically and administratively exported by a triple-A hospital.
武汉市第五医院，是七家定点医院中唯一的一所三甲医院，其余的六家医院都是等级较低的三乙或二级医院。
Wuhan Fifth Hospital is the only one of the seven designated hospitals, and the remaining six hospitals are lower level III B or II hospitals.
1月23日下午6时全面开放发热门诊后，七家定点医院马上就被大批涌来的发热病人挤得水泄不通。
After the full opening of the fever clinic at 6 p.m. on 23 January, the seven designated hospitals were immediately overwhelmed by the influx of fever patients.
形形色色的病人中，有大三甲转来的确诊肺炎病人，更有大批发热病人，呼吸道感染者，或疑似肺炎患者。
Among a wide variety of patients, there are confirmed pneumonia patients transferred from about 23 A, but also a large number of fever patients, respiratory infections, or suspected pneumonia patients.
在巨大的患者人流冲击下，一方面，七家定点医院被迅速压垮，医护人员高度紧张忙碌，身心俱疲；另一方面，大批求诊者、求入院者因不满漫长的排队候诊，或不满被拒收入院，而群情激动。
On the one hand, the rapid collapse of seven designated hospitals caused a high level of stress and exhaustion among medical staff, while on the other hand, a large number of patients and hospitalized patients were agitated by long queues or complaints of denial of admission.
Play△ 武汉一家医院，人满为患武汉各大医院发热门诊的紧张态势，已持续一周。
A hospital in Wuhan, Wuhan, full of major hospitals fever clinic tension, has lasted for a week.
原本，这座华中地区的大都会医疗资源超强，仅次于北上广一线城市，拥有武汉协和、中南、省人民医院、武汉同济等四家在全国排名前二十的超级医院。
Originally, the central China metropolitan medical resources are super-strong, after the northbound city of Guangzhou, with Wuhan Concorde, Central South, Provincial People's Hospital, Wuhan Tongji, and other four of the country's top 20 super hospitals.
此时，却迎来了前所未有的压力时刻。
At this point, but ushered in unprecedented pressure moment.
“技术一流的医疗资源，例如大三甲医院，只是疫情防控中的最后一个环节。
"The availability of state-of-the-art medical resources, such as the Big Three A hospital, is only the last link in the epidemic's prevention and control.
武汉不缺顶级医院，不缺顶级专家，不缺顶级医疗能力，缺的是公共卫生防控能力、行政效率和疫情处理流程。
Wuhan is not short of top-class hospitals, not a lack of top-level experts, not lack of top-level medical capacity, lack of public health control capacity, administrative efficiency and epidemic management processes.
”一位在医疗系统工作多年的专家称。
"says one expert who has worked in the health-care system for years.
以本周以来大批患者的流向为例：惊慌的人群先是自发冲向大三甲医院，其后再集中转向七家定点医院。
Consider the massive flow of patients since this week: panic-stricken people first rushed to the hospital and then concentrated on seven designated hospitals.
然而无论哪种情形，在患者和大医疗机构之间，均未见到基层医疗机构和基层社区组织的分流、筛选与疏导作用。
In neither case, however, has the role of diversion, screening and channelling of primary health-care facilities and grass-roots community-based organizations been seen between patients and major medical institutions.
在上述专家看来，武汉市政府采取的举措，从疫情上报到关闭传染源头，从不得已而为之的封城，到开辟定点医院接治患者，每一步都对，但每一步都晚了。
In the opinion of the above-mentioned experts, the measures taken by the Wuhan city government, from the outbreak of the epidemic to the closure of the source of infection, from the closure of the city to the opening of a designated hospital for the treatment of patients, every step is right, but every step is late.
2003年的SARS战役，令中国在灾难中积累了宝贵的经验，形成了世界一流的流行病学科研能力、应急响应能力和社会动员能力。
The battle of SARS in 2003 enabled China to accumulate valuable experience in the disaster and to form a world-class epidemiological research capacity, emergency response capacity and social mobilization capability.
原本，这些来自实践的宝贵经验，理应充分运用到17年后爆发的这次新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情中，令政府和民众以更快的响应速度、更有序的社会动员、更低的经济成本，将不如SARS严重的疫情控制住。
Originally, these valuable lessons from practice should be fully applied to the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak 17 years later, making the government and the people less able to control the SARS epidemic with faster response time, more orderly social mobilization and lower economic costs.
然而，此时此刻，上上下下却陷入“晚了一步”的尴尬局面中。
However, at this moment, up and down has fallen into the "one step late" embarrassing situation.
为什么晚了一步？17年前的那场SARS疫情，令中国在应对未知疫情上积累了宝贵的经验。
Why is it a little late? The SARS outbreak 17 years ago has given China valuable experience in dealing with an unknown epidemic.
此次肺炎疫情爆发，中国在某些方面已比17年有了很大进步。
In some respects, China has come a long way since the outbreak of pneumonia in 17 years.
首先，是疫情首次公告和上报的时间明显加快。
First, there has been a marked increase in the first time the epidemic was announced and reported.
从2019年12月12日出现第一例病例，到12月31日武汉市卫健委首次发出疫情公告，引发社会关注，中间相隔还不到20天。
From December 12, 2019, the first case, to December 31 Wuhan Health Commission issued the first notice of the epidemic, social concern, the interval between less than 20 days.
12月中旬，当武汉意识到这场不明原因肺炎可能是一场疫情时，迅速将病毒样本传至CDC（国家疾控中心）。
In mid-December, when Wuhan realized that pneumonia might be an outbreak of unknown causes, it quickly passed virus samples to the CDC.
1月9日，中国科学家又成功破译武汉发现的新型冠状病毒基因组，并于1月10将该病毒基因组信息共享到了相关国际网站上。
On January 9, Chinese scientists successfully deciphered the Wuhan genomes of the new coronavirus, and on January 10 shared information about the virus's genome on international websites.
世界卫生组织驻华代表高力表示，中国对此反应非常迅速，快速研究和识别新的病毒种类。
The World Health Organization representative in China, Gao Li, said China responded very quickly, quickly studying and identifying new virus types.
这种病毒增殖速度缓慢，样本含量较低，识别是一个很大的技术挑战，这表明近年来中国在这方面的能力发展迅速。
The slow proliferation of the virus and the low sample size make identification a major technical challenge, indicating that China's capacity in this area has developed rapidly in recent years.
这一举动赢得了国际赞誉。
The move has won international acclaim.
美国福瑞德.哈金森癌症研究中心的演化遗传学家TrevorBedlford说道：“这是非常不容易的事情”。
"It's not easy," says Trevor Bedlford, evolutionary geneticist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in the United States.
相比2003年的SARS疫情，当年第一例病例出现于2002年11月16日，而新华社首次公开报道是在2003年2月12日，中间相隔几近三个月。
The first case occurred on November 16, 2002, compared with the 2003 SARS outbreak, and Xinhua's first public report came almost three months later, on February 12, 2003.
其次，在1月18日疫情出现较大范围蔓延后，国内的医学专家们迅速编制出了科学有效的诊疗指南。
Second, following the widespread spread of the outbreak on January 18, domestic medical experts quickly developed scientific and effective guidelines for diagnosis and treatment.
1月20日，北京地坛医院感染中心牵头制订了第一份《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》。
January 20, Beijing Ditan Hospital Infection Center led the development of the first "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial)."
1月22日和23日，这份方案又接连更新了两版。
On 22 and 23 January, the programme was updated in two successive editions.
一位经历过SARS的医生告诉八点健闻，这在17年前根本不可想象。
A doctor who had experienced SARS told Eight Health News that 17 years ago it would have been unthinkable.
“那个时候根本没有统一的临床指南，医院里流行的是各种中药的偏方。
"There was no single clinical guideline at that time. What was prevalent in the hospital was the prescription of all kinds of Chinese medicine.
尤其是到了2003年后期时，为了救命，对于激素的使用没有很好的限制。
By late 2003, in particular, hormonal use was not well restricted in order to save lives.
后来回头看，用了那么多激素，其实是无效的，还留下了很多后遗症。
Later, looking back, using so many hormones, is actually ineffective, but also left a lot of after-effects.
”尽管技术上的进步显而易见，但今天武汉的疫情控制显然还算不上得当。
Despite the obvious advances in technology, it is clear that control of the epidemic in Wuhan today is not yet adequate.
截至目前，全国绝大多数省份都已经出现了来自武汉的输入性病例，从疫情的波及范围来看，比SARS有过之而不无及。
Up to now, the vast majority of provinces have appeared from Wuhan imported cases, from the scope of the epidemic, more than SARS.
在疫情的控制上，武汉市疾控系统依旧遵循传统的“内紧外松”的方式，即病毒感染者的确认要经过一系列流程，在省级、国家疾控部门双重确定后才可对外发布，意在不让民众产生恐慌情绪。
In the control of the epidemic, Wuhan city disease control system still follows the traditional "internal tight loose" way, that is, the identification of virus-infected people through a series of processes, in the provincial, national disease control departments before release, intended to avoid panic among the public.
此外，武汉市也需要在疫情发布和经济、社会影响方面做一个平衡：武汉作为春运时期的中部交通枢纽，任何有关疫情信息的发布，必将带来重大的后果。
Moreover, Wuhan needs to strike a balance between the spread of the epidemic and its economic and social impact: Wuhan, as the central transportation hub during the Spring Transportation Period, will surely bring about significant consequences if any information about the epidemic is released.
在诸多权衡之后，决策者选择了政治决策中较保守的一种。
After many trade-offs, policymakers have opted for the more conservative option in political decision-making.
2020年1月1日，武汉市仅将传染源华南海鲜市场关闭并消毒。
On January 1, 2020, Wuhan city will only infect the source of the South China seafood market closed and disinfected.
武汉各大医院的医生们仍像以往的冬季一样，如常诊治流感高发期的发热病人。
Doctors at Wuhan's major hospitals are still treating febrile patients with high flu outbreaks, as they have in previous winters.
在他们看来，12月底以来的发热病人虽然增多，但重症病人的比例与往年相比并没有增加，有部分医生在接诊病人甚至没有戴口罩。
In their view, the number of febrile patients had increased since the end of December, but the proportion of patients in serious condition had not increased compared to previous years, and some doctors were treating patients without even wearing masks.
12月31日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员曾光第一次来到武汉时，当地的临床医生比较乐观，告诉他疫情并不严重，依旧是一代病例，没有出现人传人的情况。
On December 31, when Zeng Guang, a member of the high-level group of experts of the National Fitness and Health Commission, first came to Wuhan, local clinicians were optimistic, telling him that the epidemic was not serious, that it was still a one-generation case and that there had been no human-to-human transmission.
随后的两周，在外界看来，疫情一度近乎稳定可控：1月5日晚8时，武汉卫健委官网披露截至当日，该市共报告“不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊断患者59例”。
Over the next two weeks, the outbreak appeared to have been almost stable: at 8 p.m. on January 5, Wuhan Health Officers' Network revealed that as of the same date, the city had reported "59 cases of unidentified viral pneumonia diagnosis."
1月5日-1月11日，武汉市卫健委官网没有任何疫情病例通报。
January 5 - January 11, Wuhan City Health Officers Network did not report any outbreak of the disease.
期间，1月9日，国内科学家确定此次肺炎的病原为新型冠状病毒。
Meanwhile, on January 9, Chinese scientists identified the pathogen of pneumonia as the new coronavirus.
为此，1月11日晨，武汉卫健委官网恢复通报：截至1月10日24时，该市报告新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例41例。
As of 2400 hours on January 10, the city had reported 41 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
这个通报同时表示，自1月3日以来未发现新发病例。
The briefing also indicated that no new cases had been reported since 3 January.
与此同时，武汉之外的城市不曾有一例病例通报。
Meanwhile, no cases have been reported in cities outside Wuhan.
于是，外界对武汉疫情的感觉极为乐观，有一种武汉已将疫情控制住了的错觉。
As a result, the outside world on the Wuhan epidemic feeling extremely optimistic, there is a Wuhan has been under control of the epidemic illusion.
香港大学教授管轶，凭外界已披露数据，一度乐观表示：传染源已经消灭，疫情已控，民众可安心过年。
Guan Yi, a professor at the University of Hong Kong, once said optimistically that the source of infection had been eliminated.
反转来自1月18日之后，武汉的新增病例开始逐渐增多，其它城市也出现来自武汉的新型冠状病毒。
Since January 18, the number of new cases in Wuhan has gradually increased, and new coronavirus from Wuhan has appeared in other cities.
1月18日前后，武汉各大医院的发热门诊病人急剧增多，一些医院的多名医生出现了感染情况。
Around January 18, the number of fever clinics in Wuhan's major hospitals increased dramatically, and a number of doctors in some hospitals developed infections.
医院的压力、民众的恐慌被瞬间放大，并蔓延至全国。
The pressure on hospitals and the panic among the population were instantly magnified and spread throughout the country.
1月19日，曾光再次来到武汉，临床医生改变了判断：“比想象的要严重。
On January 19, Zeng went to Wuhan again and the clinician changed his mind: "It's more serious than I thought.
”“最大的问题还是出在不重视，既然早就意识到是传染病了，为什么不先在全市范围内做防控？”一位资深的医疗界人士向八点健闻表示，关闭病毒源头的华南海鲜市场就至少晚了一周时间，更别提后续四万多户居民参与的万家宴，也在官方的默许下进行了。
"The biggest problem is the lack of attention. Why not control it citywide, when I realized it was infectious?" A senior medical source told Eight Health News that closing the South China seafood market, where the virus originated, was at least a week late, not to mention a mass dinner attended by more than 40,000 households, with official acquiescence.
“总的来说，还是政府对这件事的反应慢了一拍，如果早一点关市，并且对大规模的人员流动采取控制，很大概率不会是今天这个样子。
"Overall, it is the government that has been slow to respond, and if the markets were closed earlier and controls were put in place for mass movements, the chances would not be the way they are today."
”这人士说， “特殊时期，应有铁腕手段。
"Special times require an iron fist," said the man.
就像这次的封城决定，作为一名武汉市民我都举双手支持。
Like the decision to close the city, as a Wuhan city I have both hands support.
唯一的遗憾就是，这样的果断来得太晚了。
The only regret is that such decisiveness comes too late.
”但这位专家也坦言，如果政府在疫情初始阶段就“大动干戈”，确实会取得比较好的防控效果，但也很可能因此被老百姓扣上“无端制造恐慌”的帽子。
But the expert also admitted that the government would have had a better control effect if it had started the epidemic, but would probably have been branded "panic-mongering."
这其中的尺度拿捏，很考验当地官员乃至国家队专家对疫情的判断。
The scale of the pinch, the local officials and even the national team experts to judge the epidemic.
跟不上的防控措施这个冬季像往常一样，按照武汉人的就医习惯，遇见发热高烧之类的疾病，首先会去大医院。
Unable to keep up with the control measures this winter as usual, in accordance with Wuhan's medical habits, encountered fever and fever and other diseases, the first will go to the big hospital.
一位在武汉市肺科医院工作的设备厂商技术人员，回想起1月初该院重症监护室的医生们，感到他们都很淡定，一些医生不仅没穿防护服，连口罩都没有戴。
A manufacturer of equipment and technicians working at Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital recalled doctors in the intensive care unit of the hospital in early January, feeling that they were all very quiet and that some doctors were not only not wearing protective clothing but also wearing masks.
另一位在武汉市某三甲医院工作的医生谈到，1月初，虽然知道有新型冠状病毒肺炎，但一些在潜伏期没有任何发热症状的其它科室病人，却成了最大的传染源。
Another doctor working at a three-A hospital in Wuhan said that although the new coronavirus pneumonia was known in early January, some patients from other departments who did not show any symptoms of fever during the incubation period were the biggest source of infection.
他在该院泌尿外科的同事，给一位尚在新型冠状病毒肺炎潜伏期的病人冲洗膀胱时，没有任何防护措施，病人的体液溅在他的外套上。
His urologic colleagues at the hospital washed the bladder of a patient who was in the incubation phase of a new coronavirus pneumonia without any protection and his body fluids spilled on his coat.
等这位病人一周后确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎时，这位医生才意识到问题，立即进行了自我隔离。
When the patient was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia a week later, the doctor became aware of the problem and immediately isolated himself.
同样的情况，出现在武汉协和等四家大三甲医院。
The same situation, in Wuhan Concorde and other four big three A hospitals.
在1月20日前一周，这四家医院的多名医护人员疑似感染新型冠状病毒肺炎。
In the week before January 20, the four hospitals are suspected of contracting the new coronavirus pneumonia.
据知情人士透露，在湖北省人民医院，呼吸科有一半医护人员被感染；肿瘤科发现了一位病人，隔离了4名医生。
At the Hubei People's Hospital, half of the staff in the respiratory department were infected, while the oncology department found a patient and quarantined four doctors, according to people familiar with the matter.
省人民医院为此开辟了两个病区，约100张床位。
The Provincial People's Hospital opened two wards for this purpose, with approximately 100 beds.
武汉市中心医院至少开辟出4个病区，来隔离院内的医护人员。
Wuhan Central Hospital has opened at least 4 disease areas to isolate hospital staff.
上述知情人士谈到，这些临时开辟的病区并未严格按照隔离病房的标准设置。
These makeshift wards were not set up in strict accordance with the isolation ward standards, the people familiar with the matter said.
“大家床位都在一起，还可以聊天，可以出来走动。
"Everyone has beds together, they can talk and they can get out and walk around.
病区外没有任何提示和专人把守，外面的人如果按错了电梯楼层，也可以到达这几个病区。
Outside the area, there were no signs or personal guards, and people outside could reach the areas if they pressed the wrong elevator floor.
”在1月18日前一周的时间内，和外界不同的是，医院的医生们已经开始意识到问题的严重性。
In the week before Jan. 18, doctors at the hospital, unlike the outside world, began to appreciate the seriousness of the problem.
一位三甲医院急诊科的医生谈到，平时冬季确实是病毒性肺炎高发，但今年的病毒性肺炎特别多。
A doctor in the emergency department of the Three-A Hospital said that the high incidence of viral pneumonia was observed during the winter, but particularly so this year.
虽然都是病毒性肺炎，对于一些有经验的医生来说，看看CT片子，大致能感觉到有疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎的可能。
Although they are viral pneumonia, for some experienced doctors, to see CT films, can roughly feel the suspected new coronavirus pneumonia.
可是，那个时候武汉的各大医院，本身没有用于检测病毒的核酸试剂盒，也没有省CDC的工作人员来收疑似病例的样品做检测，因此，在1月18号前一周时间，武汉市并无新型冠状病毒肺炎病人增加，其实是“不真实的平静”。
However, the major hospitals in Wuhan did not have nucleic acid test kits to detect the virus and did not have provincial CDC staff to receive samples of suspected cases for testing. As a result, Wuhan did not have an increase in the number of patients with new coronavirus pneumonia in the week before January 18.
医务人员被感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，对专家们来说是一个非常严重的信号，这意味着病毒开始人传人，在防控上的措施应该大幅调整，仅仅关闭一代病例感染源华南市场，已经远不能解决“人传人”导致的危机。
The infection of medical staff with the new coronavirus pneumonia is a very serious signal to experts, which means that the prevention and control measures should be drastically adjusted. The closure of the South China market, the source of a single generation of cases, is far from a solution to the "human-to-human" crisis.
但这一在医护人员那里已现实存在的情况，政府相关部门却一直没有主动披露。
But this already existing in the medical staff, the relevant government departments have not taken the initiative to disclose.
直到钟南山院士1月18日奔赴武汉，了解到这一情况后，在1月20日率先披露了已有14名医护人员被感染的消息。
When Academician Zhong Nan Shan traveled to Wuhan on January 18th to learn about the situation, he took the lead in revealing that 14 medical personnel had been infected on January 20th.
第二天，武汉市卫健委才将这一消息发布。
The next day, Wuhan city health care committee released the news.
当疫情进展到“人传人”阶段，防控远比治疗更重要。
As the epidemic progresses to the "person-to-person" stage, prevention and control are far more important than treatment.
公共场合的消毒措施、群众自我隔离意识的科普，非常考验一个城市处理疫情的能力。
Disinfection measures in public places and the populace's consciousness of self-isolation test a city's ability to deal with the epidemic.
不断蔓延的恐慌1月22日，华中科技大学附属同济医院专家组，根据武汉各大医院诊治的第一批患者的第一手资料，制定了《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗快速指南》：对于所有疑似病例，需要就地医学隔离。
A team of experts from Tongji Hospital, a subsidiary of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, worked out the "Quick Guide to Diagnosis and Treatment of Coronavirus Pneumonia" on the basis of first-hand data from the first batch of patients treated in Wuhan major hospitals.
对于轻症患者，可在门诊隔离观察或居家隔离观察。
Patients with mild illness can be observed in outpatient isolation or in-home isolation.
所有回家观察的患者，要求其一旦出现任何疾病的恶化表现，应立即回到指定医院集中治疗。
All patients who return home for observation are required to return to designated hospitals for intensive care as soon as any symptoms of the disease worsen.
重症病例者、危重症病例者，需住院治疗。
In-patient treatment is required in cases of severe or critical illness.
但此时，人群日益陷入慌乱，发热、感染人数不断增加，医疗资源日益趋紧，对这一指南的执行已经很难。
However, at this time, the crowd is increasingly into panic, fever, the number of infections, and increasingly tight medical resources, the implementation of this guidance is already difficult.
随着各地不断披露的病例数增加，武汉百姓开始慌乱。
Wuhan people began to panic as the number of reported cases increased everywhere.
各大医院发热门诊人满为患。
Fever clinics in major hospitals are overcrowded.
1月23日，政府启动七家定点医院，集中接受从大三甲医院转过来的肺炎确诊病人，并收治新的发热病人。
On 23 January, the Government launched seven designated hospitals to focus on patients diagnosed with pneumonia referred from the hospital and to treat new cases of fever.
交接时期，是最混乱的时刻。
The transition period is the most chaotic of times.
一方面，在七家定点医院，已住院的病人不肯离开。
On the one hand, in seven designated hospitals, hospitalized patients refused to leave.
与此同时，这些定点医院要在短短两天内，按照一个正常的传染病医院的流程做病房改造。
At the same time, the designated hospitals were to be renovated within two days, following the procedures of a normal infectious-disease hospital.
部分定点医院既缺乏经验，也无演练，更缺乏专门的医生，防护服、口罩等也远远不足。
Some of the designated hospitals have neither experience nor practice, and there is a shortage of specialized doctors, protective clothing, masks, etc.
另一方面，原来的大三甲医院已不接诊发热病人，让患者直接去七家定点医院。
On the other hand, the original big three A hospital has not accepted the fever patients, let the patients go directly to seven designated hospitals.
1月22日晚间，李丁带着父亲来到武汉市第七医院，在急诊室待了一宿，还是没能让父亲如愿住院。
On the evening of January 22, Li Ding took his father to Wuhan seventh hospital and spent the night in the emergency room.
五天前，李丁带父亲在一家医院的急诊科就诊，大夫告诉李丁，你父亲肺部出现了两个阴影，可能是新型肺炎。
Five days ago, Li Ding took his father to the emergency department of a hospital. The doctor told Li Ding that your father had two shadows in his lungs, possibly a new type of pneumonia.
为了确诊，李丁带着父亲先去了汉口医院的发热门诊，医生认为不严重，也因为没有床位，“让回家自行隔离，开了5天的药，并告诫出现高烧不退及时就医。
To confirm the diagnosis, Li and his father went to Hankou Hospital fever clinic, doctors do not think serious, and because there are no beds, "let home isolation, opened for five days, and warned of a high fever timely medical treatment.
”1月22日这天，李父发烧不退，病情加重，李丁带着父亲紧急赶往汉口医院，却发现整个发热门诊排队的就已经有几百个人。
On January 22, Li, who had a fever and became seriously ill, rushed to Hankou Hospital with his father only to find that hundreds of people were queuing up at the fever clinic.
好不容易排上队，但医生告诉她，医院实在腾不出床位。
She had a hard time lining up, but the doctor told her that the hospital could not spare beds.
李丁父女再赶往武昌医院的发热门诊，同样人满为患。
Li Ding and his daughter rushed to the fever clinic in Wuchang Hospital, which was also overcrowded.
当晚，父女俩经人指点，得知第七医院将是收治发热病人的定点医院，于是再赶到第七医院。
That night, the father and daughter were instructed that the seventh hospital will be a hospital for fever patients, and then rushed to the seventh hospital.
此时，这家医院的发热门诊外已排起了几百米的长队。
At this point, the hospital outside the fever clinic has been lined up hundreds of meters long queue.
人群里，没有喧闹。
There was no noise in the crowd.
11点半时，李丁已经站了2个小时。
At half past eleven, Li Ding had been standing for two hours.
此时的武汉街头，温度接近零下。
Wuhan street at this time, the temperature near zero.
她裹好衣服，时不时探头看看进度。
She wraps up her clothes and pokes her head at the progress now and then.
之后，终于排进了这家医院的急诊室。
After that, he was finally admitted to the hospital's emergency room.
然而，结果令李丁再一次失望——医院没有核酸试剂盒，没法当场检测确认，因此不能收治李父入院。
Once again, however, Li was disappointed that he could not be admitted to hospital without a nucleic acid kit for on-the-spot testing and confirmation.
那一个夜晚，可能是李丁最漫长的一个晚上。
That night, it may be the longest night for Li Ding.
一边是父亲越来越严重的病情，一边是没有尽头的漫长等待。
On one side is my father's increasingly serious illness, on the other side is endless waiting.
在急诊室的过道里，轻度患者、重度患者挤在一起，他们戴着口罩，神情疲惫，靠打点滴缓解症状，有人已等了近12个小时，只为了等一个确诊信息。
In the emergency room hallways, mildly ill and seriously ill people huddled together, wearing masks and looking tired, had to wait for a diagnosis for nearly 12 hours to relieve their symptoms.
李丁似乎感到，病毒在医院弥漫开来，死亡的气味越来越近，内心夹杂着无助、焦灼和恐惧。
Li Ding seemed to feel that the virus was spreading through the hospital, that the smell of death was getting closer and closer, and that there was a mixture of helplessness, anxiety and fear.
一直到1月23日下午2点，武汉市第七医院急诊室的所有病人都是留观，一个病人都没有被安排住院。
Until 2: 00 pm on January 23, all patients in the emergency room of Wuhan seventh hospital were under observation, and none of the patients had been hospitalized.
武汉一名顶级三甲医院医生谈到，是否收治病人入院还是要看临床症状的严重程度，并不是一定要等待核酸检查。
Wuhan, a top doctor at the Sanjia Hospital, said admission depends on the severity of the clinical symptoms, not necessarily waiting for a nucleic acid test.
临床医生的诊治指南是，结合病人发热情况、验血结果，结合CT分析肺炎严重情况，决定是否收治入院。
The clinician's diagnosis and treatment guide is to combine the patient's fever, blood test results, combined with CT analysis of severe pneumonia, to decide whether admission to hospital.
而一些临床症状不严重的新型冠状病毒携带者，住院的意义不大，隔离、防止感染他人更重要。
But some clinical symptoms are not serious new coronavirus carriers, hospitalization is of little significance, isolation, prevention of infection of others is more important.
按照治疗指南，无论是否确诊，先按照一般病毒性肺炎治疗，病人自我隔离三天。
According to the treatment guidelines, patients are first treated for general viral pneumonia, with or without diagnosis, and are isolated for three days.
“如果所有病人都收治住院的话，医疗资源就不能满足那些危重病人了。
"If all the patients are hospitalized, the medical resources will not be able to meet the needs of the critically ill.
”上述医生说道。
'said the physician.
但处于恐慌中的人们，住院成为他们的首要选择，这位医生一天要接到许多领导的电话，要求将他们熟人收治入院，他坚持不符合住院指证的还是不能收。
But for those in a panic, hospitalization became their first choice, and the doctor received calls a day from many leaders asking to be admitted to a hospital, insisting that those who did not meet the admission criteria were still unable to do so.
但他同时也承认，医院确实会漏诊一些本该收治入院的病人。
But he admits hospitals do miss out on patients who should be admitted to hospitals.
“这就是整体和局部的问题。
"This is a whole and part of the problem.
”而李丁的父亲，这类自我隔离三天以上，症状依旧不断恶化的病人，本应收治入院，此时却因医疗资源匮乏，而迟迟难以被收治。
Li's father, a patient whose symptoms have been worsening for more than three days and who should have been admitted to hospital, is suffering from a lack of medical resources.
在医生们看来，最糟糕的局面是：大家都涌向医院，症状较轻的病毒携带者已具备较强的感染能力，成为移动的传染源，他们本应在家自我隔离。
The worst-case scenario, according to doctors, is that everyone flocks to the hospital and the milder carriers, already infected and a source of mobile infection, are supposed to isolate themselves at home.
这样一来，会导致医院成为最容易感染病毒的地方。
This makes hospitals the most susceptible to infection.
一座围城1月18日，国家卫健委高级别专家组再次考察武汉，集体做出了“不进不出”的四字原则。
On January 18, a high-level group of experts from the National Fitness and Health Commission visited Wuhan again and collectively made the "no drop" four-word principle.
他们的建议上报国家相关部门后，22号晚间，政府最终做出了武汉封城的决定。
Their recommendations were reported to state authorities, which finally made the decision to ban Wuhan on the night of May 22.
一位高级别专家组成员认为，在春节前夕封城的决定非常果断、正确。
A member of a high-level panel considered the decision to seal the city on the eve of Spring Festival to be decisive and correct.
“现在各省的确诊病例，绝大多数来自武汉。
"Wuhan now accounts for the vast majority of confirmed cases in all provinces.
封城前，还有大批人从武汉出来。
Before the closure of the city, a large number of people from Wuhan.
这些人最后去了哪里，是掌握不到的。
Where these people ended up is beyond control.
这些人还会人传人，其它省市很可能就变成第二疫区，第三疫区。
These people will also pass from person to person, other provinces and cities are likely to become the second epidemic area, the third epidemic area.
而现在封城后，只有武汉一个疫区，控制疫区人口流动，是乙类传染病甲类管理非常重要的一步。
Now, after the closure of the city, there is only one epidemic area in Wuhan. Controlling the movement of population in epidemic areas is a very important step in the management of Class A infectious diseases.
”曾光认为，仅从当前的死亡率来看，此次的新型冠状病毒肺炎不如SARS严重。
Zeng Guang believes the new coronavirus pneumonia is not as severe as SARS in terms of current mortality rates alone.
根据临床观察，最终使用激素的危重病例很少。
According to clinical observations, the number of critical cases of final hormonal use is very low.
当年SARS时期，许多病人后期都需要呼吸机和插管，这次并没有。
During the SARS period, many patients needed ventilators and intubation later in life, but this time they did not.
截至目前，全国新型冠状病毒死亡病例，90%以上仍集中于年长，且有脑梗、心脏病、肿瘤、高血压、糖尿病等基础疾病的病人。
So far, more than 90 percent of the new coronavirus deaths nationwide are still concentrated in elderly patients with basic diseases such as cerebral infarction, heart disease, tumor, hypertension and diabetes.
全国其它地区已迅速启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Elsewhere in the country, a major public health emergency first-level response has been rapidly activated.
1月23日，广东、湖南和浙江三省率先启动一级响应后，随后，湖北、天津、安徽、北京、上海、重庆、四川、江西、福建、湖南等十余个省市相继启动。
On January 23, Guangdong, Hunan and Zhejiang provinces took the lead in launching a first-level response, followed by Hubei, Tianjin, Anhui, Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Sichuan, Jiangxi, Fujian and Hunan provinces.
而此时的武汉，宛如一座围城，里面的人出不去，外面的人不想进来。
Wuhan at this time, like a siege, the people inside can not get out, outside people do not want to come in.
王晨谭卓曌毛晓琼|撰稿识别二维码查看新型冠状病毒疫情跟踪我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Name two-dimensional code for new coronavirus tracking We respect original copyright and do not reprint without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不缺顶尖医院、有SARS前车之鉴，为何武汉仍然每一步都走晚了？。
There is no shortage of top-notch hospitals, there is a precedent for SARS, why Wuhan still go late every step?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "不缺顶尖医院、有SARS前车之鉴，为何武汉仍然每一步都走晚了？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情进展到“人传人”阶段，防控远比治疗更重要。
var msg _ desc = & quot; prevention and control was far more important at the "person-to-person" stage of the outbreak.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
