最新疫情：全国确诊440例，三地出现人传人的“二代病例”。
Latest Epidemic: 440 cases were diagnosed nationwide, and "second generation cases" of human-to-human transmission appeared in three places.
王晨 毛晓琼 刘冉。
Wang Chen Mao Qiong Liu Ran.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
截至1月21日24时，13个省（区、市）累计报告新型肺炎确诊病例440例。
As of 2400 hours on January 21, 440 cases of confirmed new pneumonia have been reported in 13 provinces, districts and municipalities.
专家认为，1月18日以来确诊病例迅速增加，有疫情由“一代病例”转为“二代病例”的因素。
Experts believe there has been a rapid increase in confirmed cases since January 18, with a shift from "one generation of cases" to "second generation cases."
此次冠状病毒肺炎疫情传播，可明确是二代病例的，迄今已有广东、武汉、上海三地通报。
The transmission of coronavirus pneumonia, can be identified as the second generation of cases, so far Guangdong, Wuhan, Shanghai has been notified.
国家卫健委、国家医保局都采取了相应措施，应对疫情。
The National Health Commission and the National Health Insurance Bureau have taken appropriate measures to deal with the epidemic.
为防止疫情扩散，武汉对进出人员启动严格管控。
In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic Wuhan on the entry and exit of personnel to initiate strict control.
1月22日凌晨，湖北省政府宣布启动突发公共卫生事件二级应急响应。
In the early morning hours of January 22, the Hubei provincial government announced the launch of a public health emergency secondary response.
1月22日上午10时，国务院新闻办举行新闻发布会，公布新型冠状病毒肺炎的最新疫情：截至1月21日24时，国家卫健委收到13个省（区、市）累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例440例，报告死亡病例累计9例，新增3例，全部为湖北病例。
At 10 a.m. on January 22, the State Council Information Office held a press conference to announce the latest outbreak of coronavirus pneumonia. As of 2400 hours on January 21, the National Health Commission had received 440 confirmed cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection in 13 provinces, districts and municipalities.
其中，1月21日当天（0-24时），报告新增冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例149例（详细数据见文末）。
On January 21 (0-24 hours), 149 new cases of coronavirus infection were reported (see the end of the article for further data).
自2019年12月31日武汉市卫健委首次通报肺炎疫情病例以来，官方通报疫情病例迄今已超过20天。
Since Wuhan first notified the case of pneumonia on December 31, 2019, the official case has been notified for more than 20 days.
这期间，转折节点发生在2020年1月18日以后——确诊病例数迅速增加，由之前的41例增至440例；病例发生地也由武汉一地扩展至全国13个省份。
During this period, the transition occurred after January 18, 2020 - the number of confirmed cases increased rapidly, from 41 to 440; the number of cases also spread from Wuhan to the country's 13 provinces.
自1月18日至今，新型冠状病毒肺炎的确诊病例数、病发地的急剧增加，引发社会紧张情绪。
Since January 18, the number of confirmed cases of new coronavirus pneumonia, the sharp increase in the incidence of the disease, caused social tension.
当前公众的首要问题是，为何病例数在短短三四天内迅速增加扩大？有疫情专家认为，1月18日以来的确诊病例迅速增加，既有病毒诊断速度加快、疫情通报机制改变的因素，也有疫情由“一代病例”转为“二代病例”的因素。
The first question facing the public today is why the number of cases has increased rapidly in just three or four days? Some epidemic experts believe that the number of confirmed cases has increased rapidly since January 18, with both factors contributing to an increase in the rate of diagnosis of the virus, changes in notification mechanisms, and a shift from "one-generation cases" to "second-generation cases."
二代病例，简言之，就是指人传人的病例。
Second-generation cases, in short, are cases of human-to-human transmission.
如何防控二代病例，正是当前疫情防控的重心。
How to prevent and control the second generation of cases is the focus of current epidemic prevention and control.
官方通报疫情病例第一阶段此次疫情的官方病例通报经过了三个阶段。
Official notification of the first stage of the outbreak The official notification of the outbreak went through three stages.
第一阶段，是2019年12月31日至2020年1月5日，通报者是武汉市卫健委。
The first stage, from 31 December 2019 to 5 January 2020, was given by the Wuhan Health Commission.
第一阶段的首次通报，是在2019年12月31日下午13时，武汉市卫健委披露“目前已发现27例（肺炎）病例”。
The first phase of the notification, on December 31, 2019 at 13: 00 pm, Wuhan city health committee disclosed that "27 cases [pneumonia] have been found."
第一阶段的最后一次通报，是在2020年1月5日晚间8时，武汉市卫健委披露，截至1月5日8时，该市共报告“不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊断患者59例”。
The last notice of the first phase came at 8 p.m. on January 5, 2020, when the Wuhan Health Commission revealed that as of 0800 hours January 5, the city had reported "59 cases of patients diagnosed with unspecified viral pneumonia."
在上述官方通报疫情病例的第一阶段，对于肺炎的病原并未确定，因此称为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”。
In the first stage of the official notification of the outbreak, the etiology of pneumonia has not been determined and is therefore known as "unspecified viral pneumonia."
病例发生地点均在武汉市。
The cases occurred in Wuhan city.
官方通报疫情病例第二阶段官方通报疫情病例的第二阶段，是在1月11日-1月18日期间。
The second phase of the official notification of the outbreak took place between January 11 and January 18.
通报者是武汉市卫健委。
The reporter is Wuhan Health Commission.
在1月5日-1月11日期间，武汉市卫健委未有疫情病例通报。
Between January 5 and January 11, Wuhan Health Commission did not report any cases of the disease.
但在此期间，国家有关部门已确定此次肺炎为新型冠状病毒肺炎。
But in the meantime, the state authorities have identified the pneumonia as a new coronavirus pneumonia.
第二阶段的首次通报，是在1月11日晨7时，武汉市卫健委通报：截至1月10日24时，该市报告新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例41例。
As of 2400 hours on January 10, the city had reported 41 confirmed cases of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
这个通报同时表示，自1月3日以来未发现新发病例。
The briefing also indicated that no new cases had been reported since 3 January.
此后，1月12日、13日、14日、15日、16日，武汉市卫健委每日均做病例通报。
Subsequently, on January 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, Wuhan city health committee made a daily case report.
每次通报，均显示上一日的0-24时，该市无新增确诊病例。
At 0-24 hours on the previous day, no new confirmed cases were reported in the city.
由此，第二阶段的官方疫情病例报告，呈现出三个特征：其一，将此前的不明原因肺炎确定为新型冠状病毒肺炎；其二，这一阶段并无新增确诊病例，确诊病例数保持在41例；其三，所有病例均在武汉，外地尚未有病例通报。
As a result, the second phase of the official case report presented three features: first, the previously unidentified pneumonia was identified as the new coronavirus pneumonia; second, there were no new confirmed cases at this stage and the number of confirmed cases remained at 41. Thirdly, all cases were reported in Wuhan and no cases have been reported from the field.
△ 制图：吴晔婷官方通报疫情病例第三阶段官方通报疫情病例的第三阶段，始于1月18日凌晨零时10分，武汉市卫健委通报，1月16日当天新增确诊病例4例。
Cartography: Wu selected the third stage of official notification of epidemic cases, starting from 0: 10 a.m. on January 18, Wuhan city health committee informed that four new confirmed cases occurred on January 16.
这是自1月3日以来，武汉市第一次新增确诊病例。
This is the first confirmed case in Wuhan since January 3.
1月19日凌晨零时43分，武汉市卫健委通报，1月17日当天新增确诊病例17例。
January 19 0: 43 a.m., Wuhan city health committee reported 17 new confirmed cases on January 17.
1月20日凌晨2时42分，武汉市卫健委通报，1月18日-1月19日两天，总计新增确诊病例136例。
On January 20, at 2: 42 a.m., Wuhan city health committee reported a total of 136 new confirmed cases between January 18 and January 19.
1月20日凌晨2时44分，北京大兴区卫健委通报，该区确诊两例病例。
January 20 at 2: 44 a.m., Beijing Daxing District Health Commission reported that the region confirmed two cases.
几分钟后，1月20日凌晨2时51分，广东省卫健委通报，该省确诊1例病例。
A few minutes later, at 2: 51 a.m. on January 20, the Guangdong Health Commission reported that a case had been confirmed in the province.
1月20日晚间，上海市卫健委通报，该市出现首例确诊病例。
On the night of January 20, the Shanghai Health Commission reported the first confirmed case in the city.
1月21日，国家卫健委开始汇总、通报全国确诊病例数量：截至1月20日24时，收到国内四省（区、市）累计报告确诊病例291例（湖北省270例；北京市5例；广东省14例；上海市2例）。
On 21 January, the National Health Commission began compiling and reporting the number of confirmed cases nationwide: as of 2400 hours on 20 January, 291 cases had been reported in four provinces (districts and cities) of the country (270 in Hubei Province; 5 in Beijing; 14 in Guangdong Province; and 2 in Shanghai).
截至1月22日上午10时国务院新闻办疫情通报，第三阶段官方疫情通报呈现出两个特点：其一，确诊病例数量快速增加，由第二阶段末的41例，快速增至440例（1月22日上午10时通报数据）；其二，病例发生地由武汉一地，扩展至13省。
As of 10 a.m. on January 22, the State Council Information Office informed the public that the third phase of the official epidemic notice was characterized by a rapid increase in the number of confirmed cases, from 41 cases at the end of the second phase to 440 cases (data reported at 10 a.m. on 22 January), and the spread of cases from Wuhan to 13 provinces.
人传人的“二代病例”已经出现由此可见，此次冠状病毒肺炎疫情的近90%的确诊病例，是在官方通报疫情病例的第三阶段出现的，且大大超出武汉一地。
The second generation of human-to-human cases has emerged, suggesting that nearly 90 percent of the confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia occurred in the third phase of the official notification, well beyond Wuhan alone.
为什么？这其中，一是有病毒检测速度加快的原因：约自1月中旬起，各地使用了新型的病毒检测试剂盒，病毒检测速度加快，由原来的一到两周左右，缩短至两到三天。
One of the reasons for this is the increased rate of virus detection: Since about mid-January, new virus detection kits have been used everywhere, and the rate of virus detection has accelerated, from about one to two weeks to two to three days.
二是各地的报告机制有所调整：在1月20日之前，各地均等待国家卫健委确诊后才对外通报。
Second, the local reporting mechanism has been adjusted: until 20 January, all localities waited for the National Health Commission to be diagnosed before informing the public.
1月20日之后，各地开始根据《国家卫生健康委办公厅关于印发新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第二版）》，自行确诊病例并自行公布，病例披露速度加快。
After January 20, local authorities began to identify and publish their own cases under the NCHC Office's Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for New Coronavirus Infections (Trial Version 2), and the rate of disclosure of cases has increased.
而在此前，各地最初通报的确诊病例，发病时间大多在一月初，确诊时间需要十几天。
Prior to this, the first local notification of confirmed cases, the onset of most of the time in early January, diagnosis time takes a few days.
例如广东省通报的第一例冠状病毒感染性肺炎患者，2019年12月29日赴武汉探亲；2020年1月3日发病；1月4日返回深圳就诊；1月11日转院隔离；1月19日确诊；1月20日通报。
For example, Guangdong Province notified the first case of coronavirus infection pneumonia, on 29 December 2019 to Wuhan family visit; January 3, 2020 the disease; January 4, return to Shenzhen for medical consultations; January 11, transfer isolation; January 19 diagnosis; January 20 notification.
专家认为，这是因为新的检测标准和试剂没出来之前，流程问题导致的。
Experts believe this is because new testing standards and reagents were not available before process problems.
首先，各地医院发现疑似病例后，要上报地方CDC。
First, hospitals everywhere should report suspected cases to the local CDC.
当地疾控中心检测后，再将样本运送至国家CDC，由国家CDC复核后，才能作病例确诊。
After testing by the local CDC, the samples were sent to the National CDC for review by the National CDC before the case could be confirmed.
除了上述两个原因，当前，最令专家们担心的是，最近阶段的确诊病例快速增加，表明当前已有明显的“二代病例”出现。
Beyond these two reasons, experts are most concerned about the rapid increase in the number of confirmed cases in the recent period, suggesting that there are now clear "second-generation cases."
所谓二代病例，是指病毒由传染源（本次疫情中，传染源在华南海鲜市场，传染源可能是野生动物）直接传染到人之后（此为一代病例），再由一代病例的感染者，通过人传人的渠道继续传染给新的感染者（二代病例）。
The so-called second generation cases refer to the direct transmission of the virus from the source of infection (in this case, the source of infection is in the South China seafood market, the source of infection may be wild animals) to humans (in this case, one generation), and from one generation of infected persons to another through person-to-person transmission (second generation cases).
此次冠状病毒肺炎疫情传播，可能涉及二代病例的，迄今已有三地通报：最早是广东。
This coronavirus pneumonia spread, may involve the second generation of cases, so far has been notified in three places: the earliest is Guangdong.
广东省卫健委1月20日晚20时通报，当天广东省专家组根据《国家卫生健康委办公厅关于印发新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第二版）》，确认新增13例确诊病例，其中“11例病例均有武汉居住或旅行史，2例与病例有密切接触史”。
The Guangdong Expert Group confirmed 13 new cases of coronavirus infection under the experimental second edition of the "National Health Commission's Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for New Coronavirus Infections." Of these, "11 cases have a history of residence or travel in Wuhan, and 2 cases have close contact with the case," he said.
这2例“与病例有密切接触史”者，即可能是由人传人的二代病例。
These 2 cases "have close contact with the case history", that is, may be the second generation of human-to-human cases.
后据媒体报道，广东人传人病例中，其中1例发生在珠海：一对从武汉到珠海探亲的父母，把病毒传给了生活在珠海的女儿。
One of the cases happened in Zhuhai, where a pair of parents visiting from Wuhan to Zhuhai passed the virus on to their daughter, who lives in Zhuhai, local media reported.
其次是武汉。
Wuhan comes next.
1月21日凌晨1时45分，健康武汉官微发布消息，通报已有15名医务人员确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎。
At 1: 45 a.m. on January 21, the Health Ministry announced that 15 medical personnel have confirmed the new coronavirus pneumonia.
1月21日晚，武汉市长周先旺在接受央视采访时进一步披露，武汉医务人员感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，发生在华中科技大学附属协和医院。
Wuhan medical staff were infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia, which occurred at the Concoronavirus Hospital, an affiliate of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
传染源是该院脑神经外科的一位病人，在为这名病人手术期间，一名医生、13名护士被感染。
The source of the infection was a patient in brain neurosurgery at the hospital. During the surgery on the patient, a doctor and 13 nurses were infected.
新型冠状病毒，在病人手术过程中，由病人传染给医护人员，也是人传人的二代病例。
The new coronavirus, in the patient's operation process, from the patient to the medical staff, is also the second generation of human-to-human cases.
再后是上海。
Then there is Shanghai.
上海市卫健委21日发布消息，截至当晚19:00，上海新增4例新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例。
As of 19: 00 pm today, four new cases of coronavirus-infected pneumonia had been confirmed in Shanghai, the Shanghai Health Commission reported Tuesday.
其中，3例有武汉居住史或旅行史，1例从密切接触者中发现。
Among them, three cases had Wuhan residence history or travel history, and one case was found from close contacts.
这1例“从密切接触者中发现”者，同样表明是人传人的二代病例。
The one case, "found in close contact," also suggests a second generation of human-to-human transmission.
国家卫健委高级别专家组成员曾光认为，出现二代病例是疫情传播中的一个明显信号。
Zeng Guang, a member of the national health committee's high-level panel, said second-generation cases were a clear sign of the epidemic.
但这是否表明病毒产生了变异，目前还无确切的证据。
But there is no conclusive evidence that the virus has mutated.
如果病毒产生变异，最严重的后果是，病毒更适应在人身上传播，造成更多的感染。
If the virus mutates, the most serious consequence is that it is more adaptable to human transmission, causing more infections.
另一位不愿透露姓名的专家谈到，现在CDC只测了最初的一些病例，那些病例的病毒没有变异。
Another expert, who declined to be named, said the CDC had only detected the first cases in which the virus had not mutated.
现在当务之急是进行后发病例的基因组测序，以确定病毒是否出现变异。
It is now imperative to sequence the genomes of late cases to determine whether the virus has mutated.
上述专家认为，在2020年1月1日武汉的华南海鲜市场关闭后，不会再出现造访市场而被感染的可能。
The experts do not believe that after the closure of Wuhan's south China seafood market on January 1, 2020, there will be no risk of infection by visiting the market.
算上此次冠状病毒的潜伏期，可以大致推断，1月10号之后感染的病例，基本可以认定为二代病例，也即人传人的病例。
Taking into account the incubation period of this coronavirus, we can roughly infer that the cases of infection after January 10 can be regarded as second-generation cases, that is, human-to-human cases.
另一个值得警惕的信号是，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山在接受媒体采访时，不但提到病毒已具备人传人的能力，他最担心的是下一步出现“超级传播者”。
Another alarming sign is that Zhong Nan-shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of the National Fitness and Health Commission's High-Level Group of Experts, said in an interview with the media that the virus was capable of human-to-human transmission.
所谓超级传播者，是指具有极强的将病毒传染给他人的患者。
The so-called super disseminator, refers to has the extremely strong transmission virus to other people's patient.
1月21日武汉市市长披露的华中科技大学附属协和医院发生的传染病例中，14名医务人员被同一个病人传染。
On January 21, 14 medical personnel were infected by the same patient in a case of infectious disease at the Concorde Hospital, an affiliate of Wuhan University of Science and Technology.
此名病人有可能就是“超级传播者”。
The patient could have been a "super communicator."
曾光认为，这说明人传人现象存在，但不说明每一例都有传染性。
Zeng Guang thinks, this illustrates the existence of human-to-human phenomenon, but does not show that every case is infectious.
“这种情况的产生，有可能是病毒变异，也有可能是其它原因引起的，例如病毒传播到了人口稠密的地方，遇上易感群体，或者到了密闭接触的环境里。
"It could be a viral mutation or something else, like a virus spreading to a densely populated area, meeting a vulnerable group, or being in a closed environment.
”最初隔离人群中并无二代病例曾光认为，我们此次关注并介入新型冠状病毒肺炎的防治时间点，和2003年的SARS疫情不一样。
"There was no second-generation case in the original quarantined population. Zeng Guang said we were concerned about and involved in the prevention and treatment of the new coronavirus pneumonia, unlike the SARS outbreak in 2003.
当年介入SARS的时候，时间已经比较晚了，所以SARS的演变过程呈现得比较完整。
When the year involved SARS, the time has been relatively late, so the evolution of SARS appeared more complete.
现在的新型冠状肺炎病毒，只能观测早期情况，所以不论是从流行病学还是临床观察，都将有一个过程。
Now the new coronary pneumonia virus, can only observe the early conditions, so whether from epidemiology or clinical observation, there will be a process.
2019年12月8日，首例不明原因肺炎患者在武汉出现。
On December 8, 2019, the first case of unexplained pneumonia occurred in Wuhan.
12月底，随着患者人数的增加，武汉市疾控部门意识到这是一场疫情，并将相关样本递交给国家CDC。
At the end of December, as the number of patients increased, Wuhan CDC realized it was an epidemic and sent samples to the National CDC.
2020年1月1日，在病毒基因序列尚未查清的情况下，武汉市采取行动，迅速对传染源华南海鲜市场进行关闭和消毒处理。
On January 1, 2020, Wuhan City took action to close and disinfect the South China seafood market, where the virus's genetic sequence had not yet been identified.
另一方面，对患者的几百例密切接触人群进行了隔离控制。
On the other hand, several hundred cases of close contact with patients were isolated and controlled.
上述专家谈到，华南海鲜市场关闭前一周，应该是病毒传染性最强的时期，算上病毒一周左右的潜伏期，在2020年1月10日前发病的病例，应该算一代病例­，即这些患者因为直接暴露于华南海鲜市场而感染，并非被他人感染。
The experts said the week before the South China seafood market shut down should be the most infectious period for the virus, with a incubation period of about a week after the virus, and cases that develop before January 10, 2020 should be counted as a generation of patients infected through direct exposure to the South China seafood market and not infected by others.
曾光谈到，在最初隔离的几百例人群里没有发现第二代病例。
Zeng said no second-generation cases were found in the hundreds of people initially isolated.
说明这个病毒初期的毒性并不强，人传人的能力比较差。
This shows that the virus is not strong at the beginning of the virus, human-to-human capacity is relatively poor.
一开始的感染都是环境暴露。
The first infections are all environmental exposures.
参与救治的临床医生也提到，最初病人的病情不是特别严重，发热不是特别高，这也说明病毒能力弱，和流行病学的观测是一致的。
Clinical doctors involved in the treatment also mentioned that the initial patient's condition was not particularly severe and fever was not particularly high, which also indicates weak viral capacity and is consistent with epidemiological observations.
联防联控，措施升级近日，国家卫生健康委牵头成立应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控工作机制，还向武汉派驻国家级医疗专家指导医疗救治工作，对重症病例实行“一人一案”，尽最大努力减少重症和死亡。
In recent days, the National Health Council has taken the lead in setting up a joint prevention and control mechanism for pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection. It has also sent national-level medical experts to Wuhan to give guidance to medical treatment.
1月21日，国家医保局决定对确诊为“新型冠状病毒感染肺炎”等患者采取特殊报销政策。
On January 21, the NHS decided to adopt a special reimbursement policy for patients diagnosed with coronavirus pneumonia.
一是将国家卫生健康委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》覆盖的药品和医疗服务项目，全部临时纳入医保基金支付范围。
First, all the drugs and medical service items covered by the NCHC's "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infection" are temporarily covered by the medical insurance fund.
二是保证及时支付患者费用，特别是发挥医疗救助资金的兜底保障作用，打消患者就医顾虑。
Second, to ensure timely payment of patients' expenses, especially to play the role of medical assistance funds to ensure the underpinnings, remove patients from medical care concerns.
对异地就医患者先救治后结算，报销不再执行异地转外就医支付比例调减规定，减少患者流动带来的传染风险。
After the treatment of patients in different places after settlement, reimbursement no longer carry out the rate of transfer out of the payment of a reduction in the proportion of patients to reduce the risk of transmission of patients.
三是对集中收治的医院，医保部门将预付资金减轻医院垫付压力，患者医疗费用不再纳入医院总额预算控制指标。
Third, for the centralized hospitals, the medical insurance departments will prepay funds to relieve the pressure on the hospital, patients' medical expenses will no longer be included in the total hospital budget control indicators.
1月21日晚，交通运输部表示，交通运输部和国家铁路局、中国民航局及中国国家铁路集团有限公司决定，对选择铁路、公路、水路、民航等交通出行方式的旅客，免收其到达、离开武汉的火车票、客车票、船票、机票的退票手续费。
On the evening of 21 January, the Ministry of Transport and Communications indicated that the Ministry of Transport and National Railway Administration, the Civil Aviation Administration of China and China National Railway Group Limited had decided to exempt passengers who chose the mode of transport, including railways, highways, waterways and civil aviation, from the handling fees for train tickets, passenger tickets, boat tickets and air tickets.
1月22日凌晨，湖北省政府发布关于加强新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控工作的通告：为加强新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控工作，有效防止新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎传播，决定启动突发公共卫生事件二级应急响应。
In the early morning hours of January 22, the Hubei provincial government issued a notice on strengthening the prevention and control of pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection. To strengthen the prevention and control of pneumonia in this new coronavirus infection and to effectively prevent the spread of pneumonia, the government decided to start a secondary emergency response to a public health emergency.
△ 制图：吴晔婷王晨 毛晓琼 刘冉|撰稿谭卓瞾 吴晔婷亦有贡献武汉肺炎疫情更新：15名医务人员感染，全国累计218例确诊北京确诊新冠状病毒肺炎2例，广东1例，武汉新增136例我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Drawing: Wu selected Wang Chen Mao Qiao Qiong Liu Heng contributed to the update of Wuhan Pneumonia: 15 medical staff were infected, a total of 218 cases of confirmed new coronavirus pneumonia in Beijing, 1 case in Guangdong, 136 new cases in Wuhan We respect the original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最新疫情：全国确诊440例，三地出现人传人的“二代病例”。
Latest Epidemic: 440 cases were diagnosed nationwide, and "second generation cases" of human-to-human transmission appeared in three places.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "最新疫情：全国确诊440例，三地出现人传人的“二代病例”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; latest outbreak: 440 cases diagnosed nationwide, with human-to-human "second generation cases" at & quot; & quot; in three locations.
var msg_desc = "切实防控二代病例，正是当前疫情防控的重心。
var msg _ desc = & quot; effective prevention and control of second-generation cases is the focus of current epidemic prevention and control.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉肺炎疫情更新：15名医务人员感染，全国累计218例确诊',。
Wuhan & amp; Pneumonia update: 15 medical personnel infected, with 218 cases diagnosed and analyzed nationwide.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '武汉肺炎疫情更新：15名医务人员感染，全国累计218例确诊',。
Wuhan & amp; Pneumonia update: 15 medical personnel infected, with 218 cases diagnosed and analyzed nationwide.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '北京确诊新冠状病毒肺炎2例，广东1例，武汉新增136例',。
At least two cases of new coronavirus pneumonia were diagnosed in Beijing, one in Guangdong and 136 in Wuhan.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
title: '北京确诊新冠状病毒肺炎2例，广东1例，武汉新增136例',。
At least two cases of new coronavirus pneumonia were diagnosed in Beijing, one in Guangdong and 136 in Wuhan.
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
