口罩为什么会短缺？。
Why is there a shortage of masks?
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
《人物》记者向多位寻求捐赠的医护人员咨询，他们均表示，很多医院的医用外科口罩库存量大概在一个星期左右，「平常有时口罩也戴一天，如果不去视察病房，有的科室没有戴口罩的需求。
People consulted a number of healthcare professionals who sought donations. They said that many hospitals have about a week's worth of surgical masks in stock. "Sometimes they wear masks for one day at a time, and if they do not visit the wards, some departments do not need them.
」用得不多、存量少，脆弱的库存和供应系统很快被疫情冲垮，导致各地医院亮起红灯。
Underused and poorly stocked, vulnerable stockpiles and supply systems were quickly overwhelmed by the epidemic, leading to red lights in hospitals across the country.
文|林秋铭 郑丹 俞禾 曹原编辑 |萧祷口罩告急「我们这儿什么都没有了，一天接了几百个问口罩的电话了。
Ring Qiu-ming Cheng Dan Yu Wo-yuan, the former editor and former editor of small prayer masks, says: "We have nothing here. Hundreds of calls have been made a day asking for masks.
」北京金象大药房的员工翁芳在电话里告诉《人物》记者。
"Weng Fang, an employee at the Golden Elephant Pharmacy in Beijing, told People by telephone.
她记得，临近年关的时候，肺炎的相关报道蔓延开来，随之来店里买口罩的人数剧增。
As she remembered, reports of pneumonia spread as the year drew to a close, and the number of people coming to the store to buy masks soared.
每天早上药店一开门，门口就聚集了一群等着买口罩的人。
Every morning, as soon as the pharmacy opens, a crowd of people waiting to buy a mask gathers at the door.
店里设置了限购的数额，N95的口罩一人限购3个，但库存一上架就会售空。
The store has set a sales limit of three for N95 masks, but the stock will be sold out as soon as it is on shelves.
售空后，其余顾客也不散去，眼巴巴地等着下一批货。
After the sale, the rest of the customers also did not scatter, looking forward to the next batch of goods.
除夕那天，翁芳还在库房里拉货，「都在那儿等着呢，全乱套了。
On New Year's Eve, Weng Fang was still pulling goods in the storeroom. "They are waiting there.
」口罩的价格也飙升，《人物》记者发现，去年12月份时购买30只N95口罩只需要138元，1月21日页面价格涨到了698元，仍旧卖断了货。
The price of masks has soared, with People reporting that buying 30 N95 masks in December cost only 138 yuan, while the price rose to 698 yuan on January 21, still running out of stock.
口罩恶意涨价经由市场监管总局大面积查办后，得到了一定控制，但家中日益减少的口罩依然是稀缺品。
Malicious price increases for masks have been checked by the General Administration of Market Regulation, but the dwindling number of masks in the home is still scarce.
一夜之间，口罩成了硬通货，人们学会了如何快速辨认N95和普通医用口罩。
Overnight, masks became hard currency, and people learned how to quickly identify N95 and regular medical masks.
戴着N95口罩出门，会引来旁人的询问：「你这口罩哪里买的？」各地的口罩数量吃紧，电商平台不断的补货仍不及公众的抢购速度，刚补足的货源秒秒售罄。
"Where did you buy this mask?" asks someone else as he went out wearing the N95 mask. "The number of masks around the world is tight and the electrical platform is still not up to the public's buying speed, just replenish the source seconds sold out.
更急迫的是医用口罩的紧缺。
Even more urgent is the shortage of medical masks.
1月23日，湖北省中医院、华科大协和医院、湖北省儿童医疗中心、武汉大学中南医院、武汉市中心医院、武汉市中西医结合医院、武汉市第三医院、武汉大学人民医院等8家医院相继发出公告，向社会各界征集捐赠N95口罩、外科口罩、一次性医用口罩等防护物资。
On January 23, eight hospitals in Hubei Province, Huabei University Concorde Hospital, Hubei Provincial Children's Medical Center, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan Central Hospital, Wuhan Chinese and Western Medical Association Hospital, Wuhan Third Hospital and Wuhan University People's Hospital issued notices and solicited donations of N95 masks, surgical masks and disposable medical masks from all walks of life.
同时，武汉市周边的各县市开始在志愿组织的帮助下，自制求援的图片，向外求救。
At the same time, Wuhan around the county began in the help of voluntary organizations, self-made pictures, external help.
湖北省恩施州巴东县人民医院的护士接受《人物》记者采访时称，物资在疫情前期就濒临殆尽，检验科和呼吸科只能用医用外科口罩。
In an interview with People, nurses at Badong County People's Hospital in Enshi, Hubei province, told People that supplies were running out in the early stages of the epidemic and that only medical surgical masks were used by the laboratory and respiratory departments.
吃饭时摘下收好，饭后再继续戴上。
Pick it down for dinner and put it on after dinner.
N95的口罩只能让给身处一线的感染科，为了仅剩的物资，科室主任们发生了争执。
The N95 masks had to be given up to the infection department on the front line, and department directors were at loggerheads over what was left.
医用外科口罩库存不足1000只，恐支撑不了2天。
There are fewer than 1,000 medical surgical masks in stock for fear they will not last two days.
截至26日受访，该医院仍然没有接收到捐赠物资。
As at 26 June, the hospital had still not received donations.
紧接着，湖北以外其他省市的医院也陆续发出公告。
Immediately after, the hospital of other province outside Hubei also issues announcement successively.
北京安贞医院、海南省三亚市人民医院、广州医科大学附属第一医院（钟南山团队所在医院）等都在各个平台上求助。
Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Sanya City People's Hospital in Hainan Province, Guangzhou Medical University affiliated with the First Hospital (Zhong Nan Shan team's hospital) are all on various platforms for help.
孝感市第一人民医院的公告，此前有网友提供信息称该院医生没有护目镜，用文件袋制作塑料隔板替代 图源微博@新浪湖北河南南阳一家三甲医院的基层护士告诉《人物》记者，她所在的医院被划为冠状肺炎定点医院。
A netizen told People that her hospital had been designated as the Coronal Pneumonia Hospital after netizens reported information that the hospital's doctors had no goggles and used them to make plastic partitions instead of microblogs @ Sina Hubei, a nurse at a Sanjia hospital in Nanyang, Henan Province.
每人每天只能领取到一个一次性医用口罩，按照规定，医护人员4小时必须更换一次，口罩告急后，只能硬撑12个小时，戴到湿软也舍不得脱下。
Only one disposable medical mask per person per day is available. According to the regulation, medical staff must change once every 4 hours.
1月26日开始，除感染科外，其他科室只允许领取到纯白色的棉纱口罩，只能阻挡部分粉尘，「这种口罩根本起不到防病毒的作用，但总聊胜于无。
Starting on 26 January, only pure white cotton gauze masks are allowed in all sections except the Infection Unit, which only blocks some of the dust. "This mask does nothing to prevent the virus, but it is better than nothing.
」不仅是医院亟需口罩，1月26日晚，中建三局三公司抢建火神山项目部通过湖北广播电视台电视经济频道向外呼吁捐赠，施工队需要大量N95口罩、雨衣、胶鞋等。
More than just hospitals in desperate need of masks, on the night of January 26, three companies from the China Construction Industry Bureau rushed to build a fire-god mountain project department to donate through Hubei Radio and Television's television economic channel.
一篇关于医用防护口罩开发的论文指出，医用口罩的研发和疫情有密切关系。
A paper on medical mask development points out that the development of medical masks is closely related to the epidemic.
2003年的春天，对抗SARS的武器仍是普通的棉纱口罩，医用口罩标准尚未由国家标准所统一。
In the spring of 2003, the weapons against SARS were still ordinary cotton masks, and medical mask standards had not been unified by national standards.
据知情人士解释，在「全国标准信息公共服务平台」上查阅，2003年之前的口罩标准主要关注点皆为防粉尘。
According to people familiar with the matter, the primary focus of mask standards until 2003 was dust prevention, which is available on the National Standard Information Public Service Platform.
直到疫情的刺激下，同年4月29日，国家标准化管理委员会批准发布了GB19083-2003《医用防护口罩技术要求》。
Until the outbreak, on 29 April of the same year, the State Standardization Administration approved the publication of the Technical Requirements for Medical Protective Mask GB 19083-2003.
那篇论文的最后，作者沈志明写上了自己对口罩事业未来的憧憬和担忧，「从2003年上半年SARS疫情的情况看，反映出了我国医疗机制上的一些问题，通过这次疫情也将会促进我国医疗机制的转变。
At the end of the paper, author Shen Zhiming wrote about his vision and worry about the future of the mask business. "Judging from the SARS epidemic in the first half of 2003, it reflects some problems in our medical system.
尽管这个转变，因存在经济和认识上的局限将不会很快。
Despite this shift, economic and cognitive constraints will not be immediate.
」17年后，口罩这一重要医疗资源的缺乏依然成为困境之一。
Seventeen years later, the lack of a vital medical resource, masks, remains a problem.
中国作为世界最大的口罩生产和出口国，年产量占全球约50%。
As the world's largest producer and exporter of masks, China accounts for about 50% of global annual production.
为什么口罩这一重要医疗资源会走向紧缺和供应不足？生产维艰新型冠状病毒性肺炎让我们看到了口罩生产的源头——生产口罩的厂商，它们在这个冬天突然吸聚了全国的目光。
Production of the new coronavirus pneumonia has given us a glimpse of the source of the mask-making process - the mask makers - that have suddenly caught the nation's attention this winter.
为了提高产能，各个工厂迅速召唤工人回厂作业，以3到5倍工资鼓励生产。
To boost production capacity, factories quickly called workers back to work, encouraging production at three to five times wages.
以浙江省建德市朝美日化有限公司为例，该公司的120名工人留守或者返回生产线，被要求年初五之后，日产能必须达到5万只。
For example, 120 workers at Zhejiang Jiande Chaomei Chemical Co., a company whose 120 workers stay behind or return to production lines, are required to produce 50,000 a day after the start of the year.
1月26日，工信部副部长王江平也坦陈，从目前武汉的需求来看，大部分物资供应能够满足需要，通过这段时间的努力，目前复工复产面达到了40%，但防护服、口罩等物资需求显得十分突出。
On January 26, Wang Jiangping, deputy minister of the Ministry of Industry and Communications, also admitted that, judging by the current demand in Wuhan, the bulk of the supply of materials could meet the demand.
在这场疫情爆发以前，口罩厂的生存维艰很少获得关注。
Until the outbreak, little attention was paid to the survival of mask factories.
由于口罩存在有效期，生产厂商不敢囤货。
Manufacturers are afraid to hoard masks due to their expiration date.
冬天一过，5月至8月的时节口罩的销量甚微，口罩厂的压力剧增，「工人你不能解雇吧，解雇之后到冬天你怎么办？要是给工人找活干，找活干他就给你做一大堆库存出来。
As soon as winter is over, sales of respirators between May and August are negligible and pressure on mask factories is mounting. "You can't fire workers. What do you do in the winter after a layoff? If you get a job for a worker, he makes a lot of stock for you.
」广东东莞的一家口罩生产厂的负责人谢阳说。
"Xie Yang, director of a mask-making factory in Dongguan, Guangdong, said.
口罩行业定价透明，很难有价格优势，口罩厂只能依靠薄利生存，工人的压力，还有房租、库存的压力，很多人顶不住，离开了这一行。
The mask industry is transparent in pricing, it's hard to get a price advantage, the mask factory has to rely on thin profit, workers pressure, rent, inventory pressure, a lot of people can not resist leaving the industry.
谢阳发现，这次对各个口罩厂的调动存在滞后。
Xie Yang discovers, this time to each mask factory mobilization existence lag.
采购新设备、安装调试，至少需要一个月的时间，新厂的机器要到三月底或四月初才能启用。
It will take at least a month to procure new equipment, install and debug, and the new plant's machines will not be operational until late March or early April.
河南省长垣市医疗器械的从业人员李明忠早前接受媒体采访时提到，生产出的口罩要按规定放置14天，检验合格才能出厂，「这个流程时间是国家规定的，没法缩短。
In an earlier interview with the media, Li Mingzhong, a practitioner of Changyuan medical equipment in Henan province, said the mask should be placed 14 days before passing the test before leaving the factory.
」谢阳认为自己手里的这一批口罩「应该是合格了」，但如果需要送往医院，必须要拿到检测报告和医疗器械生产许可证等资质。
"Xie said he believed the masks were" supposed to be up to par "but needed to be certified for tests and licenses to manufacture medical devices if they needed to be taken to hospital.
「一个企业要办医疗器械的证，可能需要两三年，还不一定办得下来。
"It may take two or three years for an enterprise to obtain a certificate of medical equipment, but it may not be possible.
」春节期间，资质无人可批，他只好将这一批口罩销往民间药房。
During the Spring Festival, when no one was allowed to approve the masks, he had to sell them to folk pharmacies.
为了这场疫情，谢阳花了30万买了12台新机器，以4倍工资召回了10多位员工回厂，保持超负荷工作。
To cope with the outbreak, Xie spent 300,000 on 12 new machines and recalled more than 10 workers to their factories at four times their wages, keeping them overworked.
待疫情过后，口罩又将回归销售低迷的状态，口罩厂引进的新机器可能会大量过剩。
After the outbreak, the mask will return to the status of low sales, the mask factory may introduce a large number of new machines surplus.
届时如何处理闲置的机器，将是棘手的难题。
How to deal with idle machines will be a thorny problem.
「只能用来做口罩，你还能用来做什么呢？无菌车间，不可能做一些有污染的东西，到时候没办法清理。
"Can only be used to make masks, what else can you do? Sterile workshop, it is impossible to do some contaminated things, then there is no way to clean it up.
」他解释从商业的角度看，现在可以正常售卖，可「这一波之后，以后大家会更难」。
He explained that from a commercial point of view, it was now possible to sell normally, but "after this wave, it would be even harder for everyone."
武汉一本已停工企业召回200多工人春节加班生产防护用品 图源人民日报微博储备不足「武汉不明肺炎刚出来的时候，我们业内就有注意了。
Wuhan Unknown Pneumonia When Wuhan Unknown Pneumonia first came out, our industry paid attention to it.
但是当时正值年尾，一些报道让人觉得无足轻重。
But at the end of the year, some of the stories seemed inconsequential.
」林杰在一家商贸公司，负责医疗器械的采购工作。
"Lin Jie is in charge of purchasing medical equipment for a trading company.
1月20日下午，林杰关注到疫情相关新闻。
On the afternoon of January 20, Lin Jie followed the news of the outbreak.
出于从业习惯，他咨询了广州市各大药房，得知当地的连锁药房出于盈利目的，紧急向各个厂家购买现货，以满足社会群体购买需求。
As part of his practice, he consulted major pharmacies in Guangzhou and learned that local drugstore chains were urgently buying stock from various manufacturers for profit in order to meet the purchase needs of social groups.
当晚，林杰所能联系到的口罩相关现货均被订走，口罩仓库基本被搬了个空。
That night, Lin Jie can contact the relevant spot masks were ordered away, the mask warehouse was basically moved empty.
各地单位尚没有反应过来时，由于了解口罩等医疗产品的业内存量，也预见到疫情的后续，敏感的林杰马上联系了广州当地的卫健委。
Units have yet to respond, because of the knowledge of medical products such as masks inventory, but also to anticipate the follow-up epidemic, the sensitive Linjie immediately contacted the Guangzhou local health committee.
受当地卫健委的委托，他在浙江朝美公司订购了18万个N95口罩，分别预供应给各个单位。
Commissioned by the local health committee, he ordered 180,000 N95 masks from the Zhejiang Chaomei Company, which were pre-supplied to each unit.
两天以后，厂家告诉林杰，他们收到有关部门的征调令，所有货源优先供给武汉，货量大概在80万个。
Two days later, the manufacturers told Lin Jie, they received the relevant departments of the transfer order, all sources of priority supply Wuhan, cargo of about 800,000.
「作为业内人士，我认为每个环节都有问题，无论是厂商、供应商、相关单位、药房、医院、群众，都存在对疫情的松懈。
"As an insiders, I believe that there is a problem at every link, whether it be manufacturers, suppliers, related units, pharmacies, hospitals and the public, there is lax response to the epidemic.
」大学时，林杰曾在卫计局（现卫健局）实习，后来借调在药监局参与工作。
In college, Lin Jie worked as an intern for the Health Protection Bureau (now the Health Bureau) and later seconded to the Drug Enforcement Administration.
当时，他极少听说单位有对防疫的演练，「防火防震防洪都有，但大众防疫意识很薄弱。
At that time, he rarely heard of the unit has anti-epidemic drill, "fire prevention and flood prevention are available, but the public awareness of epidemic prevention is very weak.
」林杰发现，医用护理产品很受轻视，从一般消费者到医护人员，基本无应急保障准备。
Lin found that medical care products were looked down on, from the general consumer to the medical staff, with little or no provision for emergency care.
此次疫情以前，极少有人关注口罩的分级分类。
Before the outbreak, few people paid attention to the classification of masks.
孝感市第一人民医院医用耗材科的冯主任告诉《人物》记者，医院对N95口罩、防护服等储备长年不足。
Filial piety City First People's Hospital medical supplies department of director Feng told People, the hospital N95 mask, protective clothing and other reserves for years insufficient.
平日里，他们按照一定数额领取口罩，但这个数量只是保障医护人员自己使用，「之前的口罩只能由上级单位分配，不能由供应商单独给医院。
On weekdays, they receive a certain amount of face masks, but only for their own use. "Previously, masks could only be distributed by higher-level units and not by suppliers to hospitals alone.
当时只进货医用外科口罩，没有任何N95的储备。
Only medical surgical masks were in stock at the time, and no stocks of N95 were available.
」《人物》记者向多位寻求捐赠的医护人员咨询，他们均表示，很多医院的医用外科口罩库存量大概在一个星期左右，「平常有时口罩也戴一天，如果不去视察病房，有的科室没有戴口罩的需求。
People consulted a number of healthcare professionals who sought donations. They all said that the stock of surgical masks in many hospitals was around a week. "Sometimes masks are worn for one day at a time, and some departments do not need them if they do not visit the wards.
」用得不多、存量少，脆弱的库存和供应系统很快被疫情冲垮，导致各地医院亮起红灯。
Underused and poorly stocked, vulnerable stockpiles and supply systems were quickly overwhelmed by the epidemic, leading to red lights in hospitals across the country.
医护人员在救治过程中必须有包括口罩、护目镜、防护服等完备的防护措施才能有效保护自己图源武汉协和医院微信公众号抵达困难工信部近日发布消息称，我国口罩最大产能可以达到每天2000多万只。
Medical staff must have complete protective measures including masks, goggles and protective clothing to effectively protect themselves during the treatment process. Wuhan Concorde Hospital Weixin Public No.
通过协调采购，将为武汉落实各类口罩300万个。
Through coordinated procurement, Wuhan will implement a variety of masks 3 million.
其他力量也在补充进来。
Other forces are being added.
接到湖北各个医院发出的求援信号，许多志愿者组织开始协调不同厂商和物流，实施了一场民间自救。
Received from hospitals in Hubei Province, many volunteer organizations began to coordinate different manufacturers and logistics, implemented a civil self-help.
只是捐赠的口罩，在抵达医护人员手上之前，仍要历经困难的最后一公里。
Donated masks, however, still have to travel the last mile before reaching paramedics.
武汉周边地区的路段几乎被封死，乡村道路上被挖出了一道道沟壑、堆起了石头和土坡。
The road around Wuhan was almost sealed off, and the country roads were dug up with ravines, stones and earth slopes.
冯主任陆续接到志愿者的电话，但大量的物资被卡在几公里的路口外，「很多好心人捐来了口罩，但我们却拿不到。
Feng continued to receive calls from volunteers, but a large amount of supplies were stuck at the intersection several kilometers away. "Many good people donated masks, but we couldn't get them.
」湖北各县市交通陆续封锁，志愿者们召集市内汽车或使用人力，将物资发散到各个医院。
Traffic was blocked in Hubei counties and cities, and volunteers gathered cars or manpower to distribute supplies to hospitals.
但1月26日起，这些民间自救受到一定的阻截。
However, from 26 January, these civilian self-help was somewhat blocked.
官方发布公告，宣布物资捐赠将收归湖北省红十字会、湖北省慈善总会、湖北省青少年发展基金会等3个机构管理，物资悉数接收后再派发到各个医院。
An official announcement was made announcing that the donation would be managed by the Hubei Red Cross Society, the Hubei Provincial Charity Federation and the Hubei Provincial Youth Development Foundation, and distributed to hospitals after receiving all the materials.
各大医院陆续关闭了私人捐赠的渠道，部分周边地区的医院迫于情况紧急，在求助群里隐晦地表示可以由医生用个人名义接收捐赠。
Hospitals have been closing down private donations, and hospitals in some of the surrounding areas have been forced by the exigencies of the situation to say implicitly that donations can be received by doctors in their own names.
武汉市第五医院曾向外求助，《人物》记者致电该院院办，对方不透露物资是否紧缺，只回答「你们打电话问武汉市红十字会，现在由它们统一调配」。
Wuhan Fifth Hospital asked for help. People called the hospital office. People did not disclose whether supplies were in short supply. They answered, "You have called Wuhan Red Cross Society, and now they are unified."
多数志愿者认为这样的做法迟缓。
Most of the volunteers said it was slow.
志愿者组织之一的「北美留学生组」只好将第五医院的捐赠计划搁置，把原定给该医院的物资均分给其他医院。
The North American Student Group, one of the volunteer organizations, had to shelve its donation plan for the Fifth Hospital and distribute all its supplies to other hospitals.
「医院才是一线，医护人员的信息才是最及时的，我们就是希望跳过一环环的手续，直接资源点对点对接医院。
"The hospital is the front line, the information of the medical staff is the most timely, we just hope to skip the procedures of a ring, direct resources point-to-point docking hospital.
高效高速，这才是我们的初心。
High speed, this is our first heart.
」组织者李文杰说，「我们没有更好的办法。
"We don't have a better way," said organizer Li Wenjie.
」他接受采访的同时，正在进行手头上的物资调配，「我们说话的时候，从广州送来的5万只口罩已经分配给武汉各个医院及周边了。
"As he was being interviewed, he was working on the deployment of materials at hand." As we speak, 50,000 masks from Guangzhou have been distributed to hospitals in and around Wuhan.
」赵益是湖北省仙桃市的一位捐赠志愿者，他帮助将外部物资分散到各个医院。
Zhao Yi, a volunteer in Xiantao, Hubei province, helped spread external supplies to hospitals.
如果走官方途径，口罩必须要按国家的标准（医用防护口罩：GB 19083-2010/医用外科口罩：YY 0469-2011），他预估手上的口罩只有10%能达到国标。
If he takes the official route, the mask must conform to national standards (medical mask: GB 19083-2010 / medical surgical mask: YY 0469-2011) and he estimates that only 10 per cent of the face masks on his hands will meet the national standard.
红十字会需要多久才能将物资派发到各单位，仍是个未知数。
How long it will take for the Red Cross to distribute supplies to its units remains unknown.
有医生告诉赵益，他们向其申请了30套防护用具，最后只能落实到10余套，质量堪忧。
Zhao Yi was told by a doctor that they had applied for 30 sets of protective gear, which could only be put into practice in more than 10 sets, of poor quality.
昨天深夜，赵益开着运送物资的16米长大卡车在高速路口的警戒线内等待接应的28辆。
Late yesterday night, Zhao Yi was waiting to pick up 28 of the 16-meter trucks carrying supplies at a high-speed junction on the cordon.
凌晨4点，他们必须将物资送到医院，医生和护士才能在上班时间及时得到口罩和防护服。
At 4 a. m., they have to deliver supplies to the hospital so doctors and nurses can get masks and protective clothing in time for work.
有时，赵益会绕过医院主楼，在约定好的地点卸下货后马上离开，让医生自行取货。
Sometimes Zhao would bypass the main hospital building, unload the cargo at an agreed location and leave it for the doctor to pick up.
「有时候医生们不能出来，我们也不能进去。
"Sometimes doctors can't come out, and we can't go in.
」他身处两难的处境，「我们拉过去的那种非标准医用口罩，万一把其他人给害了，我们都需要负连带责任。
"He was in a dilemma." We pulled a non-standard medical mask like the one we used to pull, and ten thousand others got hurt.
但这个事情我们又不能不做，分分秒秒有人会被感染死掉的。
But this thing we have to do, minute by minute someone will be infected to death.
」一位受捐赠的医生告诉赵益，「如果没有标准防护的口罩，我们就戴非标准的。
"If there is no standard face mask, we will wear a non-standard mask," a donor doctor told Zhao.
戴一个不行，就戴两个，两个不行就戴三个。
If one doesn't work, wear two. If two don't, three.
」（除李文杰外，文中受访者均为化名）目前，各地捐赠的物资都纷纷抵达武汉，但前线的医护人员何时能真正使用到还是未知数图源CCTV新闻频道截图。
At present, donations from all over the country have arrived in Wuhan, but it is not known when the medical staff on the front line will actually use the CCTV news channel screenshots.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩为什么会短缺？。
Why is there a shortage of masks?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩为什么会短缺？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why is there a shortage of masks?;
var msg_desc = "17年后，口罩这一重要医疗资源的缺乏依然成为困境之一。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; 17 years later, the lack of a vital medical resource, masks, remains a problem.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
