邮轮结束漂泊，经济靠岸尚早。
The cruise ship is drifting and the economy is too early.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
被多个国家拒绝停靠之后，在海上流浪数日的“威士特丹号”终于在柬埔寨上岸文 |《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿编辑 |余乐在海上近乎漫无目的地航行数日后，荷美邮轮公司的“威士特丹号”(MS Westerdam )终于在2月13日上午找到了停泊之处。
After being refused permission to park in more than one country, Rotterdam, which had been wandering the ocean for days, finally landed at & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
荷美邮轮公司的这只邮轮1月16日从新加坡出发，停靠东南亚多个港口后到达中国香港。
The cruise liner arrived in Hong Kong, China, on January 16 after calling at various ports in Southeast Asia from Singapore.
在一些新乘客登船后，2月1日离开香港，本计划前往上海，但因新冠病毒疫情而改变航线。
After some new passengers boarded the ship, they left Hong Kong on February 1 and planned to leave for Shanghai, but changed course due to the new Crown Virus outbreak.
同样出于担心新冠病毒传染，该船被至少5个国家或地区的港口拒之门外。
The ship has been shut out of ports in at least five countries or regions, also out of fear of a new crown virus.
在柬埔寨之前，“威士特丹”号邮轮尝试在泰国普吉岛靠岸，遭泰国当局拒绝。
Prior to Cambodia, the Rotterdam-based cruise ship attempted to land on the Thai island of Phuket, which was rejected by the Thai authorities.
在此之前，它已被日本、中国台湾、关岛和菲律宾等地的几个港口拒绝停靠。
It had been denied access to several ports in Japan, Taiwan, Guam and the Philippines.
在海上漂泊十余天后，该邮轮终于收到柬埔寨政府的批准，于2月13日在西哈努克港靠岸。
After more than a decade at sea, the vessel finally received approval from the Government of Cambodia to dock at Sihanouk port on 13 February.
这让邮轮上的二千多号人松了口气，也让关注这条邮轮命运的人松了口气。
It was a relief to the more than 2,000 people on board and to those watching the fate of the cruise ship.
按该邮轮公司此前在其网站上发表的声明，邮轮抵达柬埔寨后即结束行程，1455乘客们将在未来几天上岸，乘坐包机转到金边，然后在乘飞机回国。
According to a statement posted on the cruise company's website, the cruise will end its journey upon arrival in Cambodia, and 1455 passengers will be disembarked in the coming days, transferred to Phnom Penh on charter flights and then repatriated by air.
世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞表示，根据世卫组织得到的信息，这艘邮轮上没有怀疑或确诊的新冠病毒病例。
According to WHO information, there are no suspected or confirmed cases of the new crown virus on board the ship, according to WHO.
他还表示，目前有三艘邮轮经历延迟通关或被拒绝进入港口，而且通常没有基于有证据的风险评估。
He also indicated that there were currently three cruise ships that had experienced delays in customs clearance or had been denied access to ports, often without an evidence-based risk assessment.
泰国媒体报道说，柬埔寨首相洪森在接到邮轮方的请求，且对方声明船上无人生病后批准威士特丹号停靠西哈努克港，并全力为船上乘客提供便利。
Thai media reported that Cambodia's prime minister, Hun Sen, received a request from a cruise ship that none of the ship's passengers had been ill and approved a trip to Sihanouk port.
除去免费检疫、免签证外还将提供其他多种邮轮必需的服务，大概需要2-3天后所有乘客方可下船。
In addition to free quarantine and visa-free access to a wide range of other cruise services, it will take about 2-3 days for all passengers to disembark.
此外，洪森还将为船上的每一位乘客送上水布作为纪念品。
Hun Sen will also give a water cloth to every passenger on board as a souvenir.
自从1月21日疫情全球扩散以来，邮轮公司嘉年华(Carnival Corp.)股价下跌了17%。
Carnival Corp. shares have fallen 17% since the global spread of the epidemic on January 21.
其竞争对手皇家加勒比邮轮有限公司(Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.)和诺唯真邮轮公司（Norwegian Cruise Lines Holdings Ltd.）的股价也分别下跌了17%和12%。
Shares of rivals Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. and Norwegian Cruise Lines Holdings Ltd. have also fallen 17% and 12%, respectively.
嘉年华2月12日表示，如果在4月底前暂停在亚洲的所有业务，它对全年每股收益的影响将为每股0.55美元至0.65美元。
If all businesses in Asia were suspended until the end of April, its impact on full-year earnings per share would range from $0.55 to $0.65, Carnival said Feb. 12.
金融服务公司B. Riley FBR Inc.首席全球策略师兼董事总经理马克·格兰特(Mark J. Grant)对《财经》记者表示，从航空业到远洋邮轮公司、内河游轮公司，或者说任何公众聚集的地方，疫情引发的恐慌都在持续。
Mark J. Grant, chief global strategist and managing director at financial-services firm B. Riley FBR Inc., told Caijing that the panic continues from the airline industry to ocean liners, river liners, or any public gathering place.
邮轮的不同命运亚洲邮轮旅游业是价值456亿美元的全球邮轮市场的重要一部分。
Different Destinations of Cruises Asian Cruise Tourism is an important part of the $45.6 billion global cruise market.
有数据显示，自疫情暴发以来，邮轮预订量已下降了10％至15％。
Data show that cruise bookings have declined by 10 to 15 per cent since the outbreak.
威士特丹号近两周时间无处可去，尽管乘客在社交媒体上表示邮轮的消毒防护设施齐备，也无人患病，却在相当一段时间内找不到愿意收留这2000多人的港口。
Rotterdam has nowhere to go for nearly two weeks, and although passengers on social media say the ship is well protected against disinfection and no one is ill, it will not be able to find a port for more than 2,000 people for some time.
根据《国际卫生条例》，世卫组织表示，WHO将与国际海事组织（IMO）一起向所有国家发布一份公报，敦促各国尊重船舶的检疫证明（Free Pratique）原则和对所有旅客提供适当照顾的原则。
According to the International Health Regulations, WHO, together with the International Maritime Organization (IMO), will issue a communiqué to all countries urging them to respect the Free Pratique principle and the principle of proper care for all passengers.
嘉年华是全球最大的邮轮公司，也是全球最大的休闲旅游集团。
Carnival is the world's largest cruise company and the world's largest leisure tourism group.
和其他邮轮公司一样，嘉年华也把目光放在了近年来蓬勃发展的亚洲邮轮旅游业。
Like other cruise companies, Carnival has focused on the booming Asian cruise industry in recent years.
在邮轮行业内部，他们知道这个最初由北美需求推动的产业，靠欧洲发力的中期走势已过，邮轮市场在东移，以中国、日本为代表的亚洲邮轮旅游业市场是他们的明天。
Within the cruise industry, they know that this industry, initially driven by North American demand, has passed the mid-term trend of European strength, the cruise market is moving eastward, and the Asian cruise tourism market represented by China and Japan is their tomorrow.
于是嘉年华旗下的公主邮轮利用春节的销售档期，推出了由“钻石公主号”执行的“东南亚春节之旅”。
So Carnival's Princess Cruise took advantage of the Spring Festival sales season to launch the "Princess Diamond" implementation of the "Southeast Asia Spring Festival Tour.
按照计划，邮轮从横滨港出发，将依次经停鹿儿岛、香港、岘港、下龙湾、台北、冲绳，再返回横滨，航程历时15天。
According to the plan, the ship will depart from Yokohama port via Kagoshima, Hong Kong, Danang, Ha Long Wan, Taipei, Okinawa and then return to Yokohama for a 15-day voyage.
按照计划，邮轮本该于2月4日在横滨靠岸结束行程。
According to the plan, the ship was due to call at Yokohama on February 4.
1月20日，“钻石公主号”邮轮满载来自多个国家和地区的2666名乘客和1045名工作人员从横滨出发。
On January 20, the MV Princess Diamond set sail from Yokohama with 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members from various countries and regions.
1月25日，邮轮抵达香港，在此停留一天、部分乘客上下船后继续前行。
On January 25, a cruise ship arrived in Hong Kong, where it stayed for a day. Some passengers disembarked and continued on their way.
由于搭乘过邮轮的一名香港乘客被确诊感染新冠病毒，日本政府紧急禁止邮轮靠岸。
The Japanese government has imposed an emergency ban on the docking of a Hong Kong passenger on a cruise ship after she was confirmed to have contracted the virus.
自2月3日晚起，日本检疫官直接上船，对船上273人进行取样。
Since the evening of February 3, Japanese quarantine officials have boarded the ship directly and taken samples of 273 people on board.
其中120人报告有发烧、咳嗽等症状，另153人则与确诊的香港乘客有过密切接触。
Of these, 120 reported symptoms such as fever and cough, while 153 had close contact with Hong Kong passengers who had been diagnosed.
确诊病人被陆续送往日本当地医院接受治疗。
Confirmed patients are being sent to local hospitals in Japan for treatment.
日本官方2月13日指出，停泊在横滨港的钻石公主号邮轮新增加44例新冠病毒确诊病例，目前的感染人数已经达到218例。
A total of 44 new cases of the new Crown virus have been confirmed on board the vessel Princess Diamond, which docked in Yokohama, with 218 cases reported today, officials said on Tuesday.
一名戴口罩及手套登船实施检疫的检疫官也确诊感染。
A quarantinable quarantine officer wearing a mask and gloves was also confirmed to be infected.
同样把赌注放在亚洲的皇家加勒比邮轮（Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.）也面对疫情的影响。
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., also betting on Asia, is also facing the impact of the epidemic.
这家公司目前已经取消了八个中国航程，并修改了途径该地区的几条航线。
The company has now cancelled eight Chinese voyages and revised several routes through the region.
名人游轮（Celebrity Cruises）是总部位于美国迈阿密的皇家加勒比邮轮旗下产品之一。
Celebrity Cruises is one of the products of the Royal Caribbean Cruise, headquartered in Miami, USA.
一个刚刚结束东南亚之旅的马里兰居民对《财经》记者表示，搭乘邮轮让人开心，但其中最让人兴奋的是停靠在不同的国家，认识世界。
A Maryland resident who has just returned from a trip to Southeast Asia told Caijing that it was fun to ride on a cruise, but one of the most exciting things about being in a different country and getting to know the world.
她选择了名人游轮推出的今年1月18日到2月1日的名人千禧号（Celebrity Millennium）。
She chose the celebrity cruise ship Celebrity Millennium, which runs from January 18 to February 1 this year.
在船抵新加坡后不久，她就听说了新冠疫情，但是千禧号的旅程一直继续。
Soon after the ship arrived in Singapore, she heard of the new Crown outbreak, but the Millennium journey continued.
在到达香港并停留时，船上的乘客已经开始担心美国机场关闭的可能。
By the time they arrived in Hong Kong, passengers were already worried about the possibility of a US airport closing down.
在他们离开香港的第二天，香港特区政府就宣布自1月30日起，关闭高铁西九龙站，暂停所有来往香港和中国大陆的高速铁路服务。
On the day after their departure from Hong Kong, the HKSAR Government announced the closure of the West Kowloon MTR Station and the suspension of all high-speed rail services to and from Hong Kong and Mainland China with effect from 30 January.
这位马里兰居民随后到了澳门。
The Maryland resident then went to Macao.
在澳门，一切都还是热闹的景象，但是第二天他们离开时，澳门就已经开始受疫情影响了，“感觉街一下子就空了，我们上了船也忐忑不安，不知道我们会不会被隔离”，她对《财经》记者说。
Everything was still alive in Macao, but by the time they left the territory the next day, Macao was beginning to be affected by the epidemic. "It felt like the streets were empty and we were in a state of anxiety about whether or not we would be quarantined," she told Caijing.
幸运的是，千禧号邮轮按计划完成了亚洲之旅，已回到家中的邮轮乘客对《财经》记者感慨，“真是太幸运了，回到家里我们才意识到疫情的严重性远远超过我们的想象。
Luckily, Millennium Cruise completed its planned trip to Asia, and passengers on board the ship that had returned home lamented to Caijing, "It was fortunate that we came home to realize that the severity of the outbreak was far greater than we had imagined.
”实际上随着太平洋地区和国家纷纷收紧船只的靠港规定，包括名人游轮在内的很多邮轮航次已经取消或改变航程。
Indeed, many cruise liners, including celebrity cruise ships, have been canceled or changed course as the Pacific region and countries tighten port requirements for ships.
有些邮轮避开了新加坡和泰国，因为这两个国家拒绝任何携带中国护照持有人的船只入境。
Some have dodged Singapore and Thailand, which have denied entry to any vessels carrying Chinese passport holders.
皇家加勒比邮轮此前曾预期，2020年中国将占其总运力的6%，其中第一季度中国将占其总运力的4%。
Royal Caribbean Cruises had expected China to account for 6 per cent of its total capacity in 2020, with China accounting for 4 per cent of its total capacity in the first quarter.
自一月底起，皇家加勒比邮轮已经暂停了“海洋光谱”号的多次航程。
Since the end of January, the Royal Caribbean Cruise has suspended several voyages of the Ocean Spectrum.
有消息称，皇家加勒比邮轮计划将“海洋光谱”号暂时撤离中国大陆市场，转而以台湾为母港，为期两个月。
The Royal Caribbean Cruise is planning to temporarily pull out of mainland China and use Taiwan as its home port for a two-month period, sources said.
港口码头的冲击国际邮轮在深耕亚洲市场时，选择通过对港口的投资推动业务发展。
The impact of port docks International cruise ships in the deep ploughing of the Asian market, choose to promote the development of business through investment in ports.
以嘉年华集团为例，该集团曾表示，希望通过对佐世保港和未来更多亚洲港口的长期投资，促进亚洲邮轮出行需求的不断增长，促进日本成为亚洲邮轮航运枢纽，推动亚洲邮轮旅游业的高速发展。
Carnival, for example, has said it hopes to boost demand for Asian cruise travel by making long-term investments in Saussao and more Asian ports in the future, boosting Japan's role as an Asian cruise hub and driving the rapid growth of cruise tourism in Asia.
而港口城市也希望通过旅游业来提升港口的竞争力，从而推动实体经济的发展。
The port city also hopes to enhance the competitiveness of the port through the tourism industry, thus promoting the development of the real economy.
位于美国佛罗里达州西海岸的坦帕（Tampa）的官员就把目光投向了亚洲。
Officials in Tampa, on the West Coast of Florida, are looking to Asia.
在去年底的一次采访中，坦帕地方官中对《财经》记者表示，坦帕所在的位置使其成为进出拉丁美洲市场的枢纽，有很多到拉丁美洲的出口贸易。
In an interview late last year, Tampa told Caijing that Tampa's location made it a hub for Latin American markets, with many exports to Latin America.
坦帕在美国位置绝佳, 是最接近巴拿马运河的深水港。
Tampa is in excellent position in the United States and is the closest deep-water port to the Panama Canal.
亚洲可能会发现通过坦帕可以进入美国、从而覆盖佛罗里达州、进入美国东南部，它也是进入拉丁美洲的一个通路。
Asia may find its way into the United States via Tampa, thus Florida, and into the southeastern United States, and it is a route into Latin America.
坦帕湾港(Port TampaBay)身处墨西哥湾，自身有大量的土地资源，也希望能够成为各种新贸易的门户。
Port Tampa Bay, in the Gulf of Mexico, has plenty of land and wants to be a gateway to new trade.
他们试图吸引集装箱和汽车运输业务，而邮轮的停靠能给坦帕带来了经济效益和活力。
They are trying to attract container and car transport, and the docking of a cruise ship can bring economic benefits and dynamism to Tampa.
坦帕湾港负责市场营销和业务开发的副总裁韦德·埃利奥特（Wade Elliott）对《财经》记者说，坦帕湾一个拥有六条邮轮线路的港口，每年有超过一百万的旅客。
Wade Elliott, vice president of marketing and business development at Tampa Bay, told Caijing that Tampa Bay, a port with six cruise lines, has more than a million passengers a year.
几年前，在名人邮轮进驻坦帕湾市场时，坦帕湾港口负责人就兴奋地预测说，到2020年，名人游轮将提供从坦帕出发的精选路线，其中包括在加勒比海南部和东部的极具吸引力的停靠地点。
A few years ago, when a celebrity cruise entered the Tampa Bay market, the head of the Tampa Bay port was excited to predict that by 2020, celebrity cruise ships would offer selected routes from Tampa, including highly attractive destinations in the southern and eastern Caribbean.
坦帕湾正在经历爆炸式飞速的发展，加上这一高端品牌的加入，将为坦帕湾众多度假者的选择锦上添花。
Tampa Bay is experiencing explosive growth, and the addition of this high-end brand will add to the selection of many holidaymakers in Tampa Bay.
邮轮旅游经济的蓬勃发展遇到疫情打击，此前上海国际邮轮经济研究中心副主任叶欣梁对媒体表示，某些邮轮公司因为取消航次直接损失在7-10亿元左右，小型邮轮公司的损失也在5000万元左右，而为邮轮公司和港口配套的其他供应商、企业等，相关损失初步预计在10亿元左右。
The boom in the cruise economy has been hit by an epidemic, Ye Xinliang, deputy director of the Shanghai International Cruise Economic Research Center, told reporters that some cruise companies have lost about $700 million to $1 billion as a direct result of cancellations.
同时货物贸易也受损。
Trade in goods was also impaired.
按体量计算，全球货物贸易的80%通过海洋运输，截至2020年2月7日，BDI指数报415点，同时创下2016年4月5日以来的新低。
By volume, 80 per cent of global trade in goods is transported by sea, with the BDI index reporting 415 points as at 7 February 2020, a new low since 5 April 2016.
不过多年面向亚洲的努力尚未带来大进展的坦帕，此次也稍得喘息。
But Mr Tampa, whose years of Asia-wide efforts have yet to deliver much progress, is also taking a breather.
当地官员表示，由于坦帕出发的邮轮主要航行地为墨西哥和西加勒比海地区，因此疫情影响可控。
Local officials said the outbreak could be contained because the main cruises from Tampa were to Mexico and the western Caribbean.
在亚洲港口变得冷清之际，前往欧洲目的地、美国阿拉斯加和加勒比海地区的邮轮预订量有所增加。
Cruise bookings to European destinations, Alaska and the Caribbean have increased as Asian ports have languished.
在美国，西海岸受到的疫情影响更大。
In the United States, the west coast has been more affected by the epidemic.
一个受雇于不同邮轮的美国艺术家对《财经》记者说，他已经收到4月份在某大型邮轮上工作的邀请，显然疫情的影响是短期的。
An American artist employed by different cruise lines told Caijing that he had been invited to work on a large cruise ship in April, and it was clear that the impact of the outbreak was short-term.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
邮轮结束漂泊，经济靠岸尚早。
The cruise ship is drifting and the economy is too early.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "邮轮结束漂泊，经济靠岸尚早";。
var msg _ title = & quot; cruise terminal; economy early and quot;;
var msg_desc = "被多个国家拒绝停靠之后，在海上流浪数日的“威士特丹号”终于在柬埔寨上岸";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; after several days at sea.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
