中小微企业如何抗疫渡难关？VC支招：止血、造血、输血。
How to fight the difficulties of micro and small enterprises? VC support: hemostasis, hematopoiesis, blood transfusion.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 读数一帜。
The following article comes from the reading is unique.
Author 杨秀红。
Author Yang Xiuhong.
读数一帜。
The reading is unique.
读数一帜由《财经》杂志资本证券组创建。
The first reading was created by Caijing Capital Securities Group.
数说资本故事，解读财富密码。
Count capital stories and decipher the code of wealth.
。
.
“企业要想活下去，当前最关键的是要管理好现金流。
"The key to survival is managing cash flow," he said.
如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
If cash flow dried up, it would be hard for companies to get out of business.
”文|《财经》记者杨秀红编辑| 陆玲2020年的春节，对于春光里产业资本集团创始人杨守彬而言，是一个异常忙碌的假期。
At Caijing's 2020 Spring Festival, it was an unusually busy holiday for Yang Shoubin, founder of Caijing's industrial capital group.
庚子鼠年，疫情肆虐。
Gengzi Year of the Rat, ravaging epidemic.
全国各地的医务工作者们不顾安危奋战在一线，努力帮助数以万计的病患逃离生死之困。
Medical workers across the country are fighting on the frontlines to help tens of thousands of patients escape from life and death.
杨守彬和他的团队，则奋战在另一个战场上。
Yang and his team fought on another battlefield.
他们紧急和公司投资的数十家企业沟通，商讨如何应对这次罕见疫情给企业带来的冲击，协助个别企业破解经营上的生死之局。
They are urgently communicating with dozens of companies the company has invested in to discuss how to deal with the impact of this rare epidemic on companies, to help individual companies break the business of life and death.
“我们投资的一家商旅企业，因为受到疫情影响，国际国内航班停飞，已为客户无条件退了几十万张机票。
"We have invested in a business enterprise, because of the impact of the epidemic, international and domestic flights were stopped, customers have unconditionally returned hundreds of thousands of tickets.
仅春节一个假期，这家企业的业务退款已达6-7亿元。
The business refund of this enterprise has reached 600-700 million yuan for the Spring Festival alone.
”2月12日晚，杨守彬对《财经》记者称。
On the night of February 12, Mr Yang told Caijing.
目前，他领衔的春光里产业资本，已累计投出12亿元，管理基金规模达30亿元。
At present, he has led the Chunguang industrial capital, has invested 1.2 billion yuan, the size of the management fund reached 3 billion yuan.
根据他们团队近期的分析统计以及和被投企业的沟通，杨守彬认为，这场疫情对企业的影响有三个层面：如可能有90%的企业会因疫情而面临经营压力；约10%的企业会因为疫情带来业务的逆势增长；局部企业可能会面临生死危机等。
According to his team's recent statistics and communications with the companies targeted, Yang said the epidemic's impact on companies has three levels: if 90% of companies are likely to be under operational pressure because of the epidemic; about 10% will experience adverse business growth due to the epidemic; and some local companies may face a life-or-death crisis.
2月12日，中国投资协会创业投资专业委员会（简称“中国创投委”）发布了一份疫情对创投机构和其投资企业影响的调研报告。
On February 12, the Special Committee on Venture Capital of the China Investment Association (CCIA) issued a report on the impact of the epidemic on VCs and their investment enterprises.
中国创投委对近200家创投机构的随机抽样调查显示，近90%的调研对象认为此次疫情对创投行业影响很大或有一定影响。
A random sample survey of nearly 200 VCs by the CVRD showed that nearly 90% of the respondents thought the epidemic had a great or moderate impact on the VCs industry.
超过95%的调研对象表示此次疫情对已投项目产生了不利影响，其中认为影响很大的占比23.35%；认为有一定影响的占比61.93%。
More than 95 per cent of the respondents said the epidemic had had a negative impact on the projects put forward, with 23.35 per cent believing that the impact was significant and 61.93 per cent believing that it had had an impact.
此外，超过70%的创投企业和天使投资人认为疫情将对“双创”（大众创业、万众创新）产生严重影响或较大影响。
In addition, more than 70 percent of venture capital and angel investors believe the epidemic will have a severe or significant impact on "double creation" (mass entrepreneurship, mass innovation).
从受疫情冲击行业来看，调查显示，受疫情影响最为严重的行业主要有四大行业，包括消费产品和服务业，特别是线下消费零售餐饮和服务行业；物流与交通运输；文化及娱乐传媒，特别是影视行业；制造业特别是劳动密集型工业制造行业。
In terms of the sectors hit by the epidemic, the survey showed that the four main sectors most affected by the epidemic were consumer goods and services, particularly offline consumer retail catering and services; logistics and transport; cultural and entertainment media, particularly the film and television industry; and manufacturing, particularly labour-intensive industrial manufacturing.
“企业要想活下去，当前最关键的是要管理好现金流。
"The key to survival is managing cash flow," he said.
如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
If cash flow dried up, it would be hard for companies to get out of business.
”杨守彬认为：“管理现金流，需要从止血、造血、输血三方面着手。
"To manage cash flow, we need to start with hemostasis, hematopoiesis and blood transfusion," Yang said.
”此前，国内餐饮业知名品牌西贝董事长贾国龙曾表示，公司经营告急，春节损失七八亿，员工工资每月支出超1.5亿，靠贷款资金撑不过3个月。
Jia Guolong, chairman of the famous domestic restaurant industry brand Xibe, had said the company was running on short notice, losing 7.8 billion yuan on the Lunar New Year and spending more than 150 million yuan a month on salaries and loans for less than three months.
很多中小企业亦表示，靠现有资金很难支撑3个月。
Many small and medium-sized enterprises also said it would be difficult to sustain them for three months.
一项对于延期开工的调查结果则更显严峻。
The results of a survey into the delay are even more grim.
近日，中国社会科学院社会学研究所牵头推出的《企业开工力调查·报告》显示，疫情导致企业延迟开工，约96%的企业难以承受两个月以上的延期。
Some 96 percent of companies can ill afford a two-month extension, according to the Work Start Survey Report, led by the Institute of Social Sciences of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
其中，约67.7%的被调查企业表示最多能承受两周以内的延期，能够承受2周-1个月延期开工的企业约占五分之一，能够承受1个月以上延期开工的企业为7.1%，能够承受2个月以上延期的企业仅占1.7%。
Of these, 67.7 per cent indicated that they could afford extensions of up to two weeks, about one fifth of enterprises could afford a two-week-to-one-month extension, 7.1 per cent of enterprises were able to withstand a delay of more than one month and only 1.7 per cent of enterprises were able to withstand delays of more than two months.
关于止血和造血，杨守彬为其投资的企业提供了多项建议，比如砍掉资金流消耗过多的业务、和员工协商缓发薪酬和降低薪酬，相关差价公司用对应期权来补偿，以此让员工与公司共克时艰等。
With regard to hemostasis and hematopoiesis, Yang provided suggestions for the companies he invests in, such as cutting out businesses that consume too much capital flow, negotiating with employees to slow down pay and pay cuts, and compensating them with options to keep employees together.
对于输血，他认为目前政府针对中小企业出台的扶持措施“远水难解近渴”，很多措施难以实际落地。
As for blood transfusions, he said the government's current support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises "distant water does not quench thirst," many measures can not be practical landing.
他期待政府出台更为细化的扶持政策，如将缓交社保落到实处；并建议一些有能力的城市成立专项扶持基金，为中小企业输血；同时，他建议监管层督促银行建立绿色通道，比如网上信贷等快速贷款方式，让身处困境的中小企业能更快获得资金。
He expects the government to put in place more detailed support policies, such as extending social security rebates to small and medium-sized enterprises, and suggests that some cities with the capacity to do so set up special support funds to provide blood for small and medium-sized enterprises. He also suggested that regulators urge banks to establish green channels, such as fast-track loans such as online credit, to enable troubled SMEs to access capital more quickly.
“疫情结束后，我们会加大对中小企业的投资。
"After the epidemic is over, we will invest more in small and medium-sized enterprises.
”他认为：“能够在经济寒冬和罕见疫情的双重冲击下活下来的企业，肯定更具投资价值。
"Companies that can survive the combined impact of an economic winter and a rare outbreak are sure to have more investment value," he said.
”“灾难并不必然催生伟大企业，但有的企业会因灾难而伟大。
"Disasters do not necessarily lead to great businesses, but some businesses can be great because of them.
”杨守彬称。
"said Yang.
以下为杨守彬的自述，《财经》记者进行了整理删减。
The following is Yang Shu-bin's self-report, "Caijing" reporter carried on the reorganization and deletion.
部分企业损失惨重我们现在已经开始居家在线办公，2月10日是国家规定的名义开工日，据我们和被投企业沟通，约有80%的企业采用居家在线办公，尤其是一些员工数量比较多的公司，因为担心疫情传染等影响，都选择在线办公。
Some companies are losing a lot of money We are now working online from home, February 10 is the nominal start date set by the state, and about 80 percent of the companies we invest in are using telecommuting, especially some companies with large numbers of employees who have opted to work online for fear of contagion, etc.
只有极个别企业开始线下办公，比如和疫情密切相关的企业，其中我们投资的一家商旅企业，需要为客户退票，一直在忙于工作。
Only a few companies, such as those closely related to the epidemic, have started operating offline, and one of our business ventures, which needs to return tickets for its customers, has been busy working.
这家企业也是受疫情影响比较大的企业，受到国内国际很多航班停运的影响，目前这家公司退票数量已经达到十几万张，直接业务损失达到6-7亿元。
The company is also affected by the epidemic relatively large enterprises, affected by the suspension of many domestic and international flights, the number of tickets has reached the number of refunds has reached tens of thousands of, direct business losses reached 600-700 million yuan.
根据我们团队近期的分析统计以及和被投企业的沟通，我认为，这场疫情对企业的影响有三个层面。
According to our team's recent analysis of statistics and communication with the investment enterprises, I believe that the impact of the epidemic on enterprises has three levels.
第一层面，从整体来看，这场疫情的影响无疑是非常广泛的。
First, on the whole, there is no doubt that the impact of the epidemic is widespread.
可能有90%的企业会因疫情而面临经营压力，剩下的10%的企业，会因为疫情带来业务上的逆势增长，迎来前所未有的发展机遇，主要包括智能化数字化的企业，疫情令其线上业务迎来大爆发。
The epidemic is likely to put 90% of businesses under operational pressure, and the remaining 10% will see unprecedented growth opportunities as a result of the epidemic, including intelligentized, digitalized businesses that have seen their online businesses explode.
第二层面，对于春光里资本的被投企业而言，其整体影响并不大，因为公司投资重点集中于互联网新经济产业。
Second, for the investment companies in Spring Light, the overall impact is not large, because the focus of the company's investment in the new Internet economy industry.
这次受影响特别大的企业主要是完全线下场景模式的企业，比如一些传统的消费类企业等，我们对这类企业投资相对较小。
This time the particularly affected enterprises are mainly those that are completely offline scene, such as some traditional consumer enterprises, we have relatively small investment in this kind of enterprises.
第三层面，对于局部企业而言，疫情可能给其带来巨大危机，其面临的业务损失可能相当惨重。
Third, for local companies, the epidemic may bring them a huge crisis, and the business losses they face can be quite severe.
根据我们的统计分析，局部受影响比较大的企业主要有三类，第一类是纯线下场景的企业，因为疫情带来业务的巨大停滞；第二类是国家禁止开业的，比如一些度假公寓，我们春光系企业中有一家度假公寓类公司，有几十万间房间无法出租出去，损失还是相当惨重的；第三类是现金流极不充足的，依靠现金流来运转的，比如餐饮类公司，在供应链上的一些企业，比如近期报道的北京奔驰要求天津的供应商复工等，还有需要大量资金进行采购的企业等。
According to our statistical analysis, there are three main categories of enterprises that are locally affected, the first being enterprises in pure offline situations where the business is stagnating because of the epidemic; the second are those whose operations are prohibited by the State, such as some holiday apartments in our Chunguang enterprise, where hundreds of thousands cannot be rented out.
为了帮助这些企业要渡过难关，我们提出了一些建议，比如有一家线下餐饮企业，他们的直营店有四五十家都无法正常开业，我们建议其将业务更多的转移到线上，当然在现有疫情下，这一过程只是在引导和培养更多客户流量，但是这一转型，有望帮助企业再造流程，提升效率，为疫情过后的业务提升打好基础。
To help these companies survive, we offer some advice, such as an offline restaurant where 40 or 50 of their direct stores are unable to operate properly. We recommend moving more business online, although the process is only leading and nurturing more customer traffic in the current epidemic, but this transition is expected to help companies rebuild their processes, improve efficiency and lay the groundwork for post-epidemic business upgrading.
对于因不可抗力导致大量退票的商旅公司，我们建议其和航空公司商谈，毕竟机票最终没有被消费，需要航空公司和商旅公司一起共担机票退票的损失。
For travel companies with large refunds due to force majeure, we suggest that they discuss with the airline that the ticket has not been consumed and that the airline and travel company share the loss of the refund.
同时，这家企业此前引进了供应链金融，也可以帮助其化解一部分风险。
At the same time, the company has introduced supply-chain finance, which can also help it mitigate some of its risks.
对于国家规定不能开业的度假公寓，每天有几百万元的损失，全球十几万间公寓无法出租。
Millions of dollars are lost every day to vacation apartments that the state has ruled out, and tens of thousands of apartments around the world cannot be rented.
这家公司可能会和出租者商谈能否减免部分房租。
The company may negotiate a partial rent reduction with the lessor.
这家公司体量比较大，在业内还是有比较好的声誉的，利益链条上的各方都不希望其倒下。
This company is relatively large, in the industry or have a good reputation, the interests of all parties do not want it to fall.
实际上，相对于此，那些规模更小的企业可能会更快倒闭。
In fact, smaller firms are likely to fail faster than this.
生死系于现金流企业最核心的问题就是资金问题。
Life and death depends on the cash flow of the enterprise the most central issue is funding.
很多企业可能在1-2月内资金不能周转，就可能休克。
Many businesses may not be able to turn their money around in January-February and may go into shock.
等到企业休克或者没有生命体征再去想办法补救，将无力回天。
When the enterprise shock or no signs of life to find a way to remedy, will be unable to recover.
现金流如同一个企业的血液，在当前疫情下，现在需要考虑的是，依靠自身造血还是靠外部输血活下去？我认为，维持现金流，需要止血、造血和输血三步。
Cash flow is like the blood of an enterprise. In the current epidemic, what needs to be considered is whether to live on its own blood or through external transfusionsIn my opinion, three steps are needed to maintain cash flow: hemostasis, hematopoiesis and blood transfusion.
在这方面，我们也为被投企业提出了一些应对措施。
In this regard, we also put forward some countermeasures for the investment enterprises.
止血即是截流，现金为王。
Stop bleeding is intercepting, cash is king.
不过止血有一个非常重要的前提，即合情合理合法地活下去，比如不能随意裁员，降低员工薪酬等。
But stopping the bleeding has a very important premise, that is, legitimate living, such as can not lay off people at will, reduce staff remuneration, and so on.
至于止血的措施，一是企业可考虑是否能够砍掉现金流消耗比较大的业务；企业还可以协调上下游，将应付款项改为延期付款等。
As for the measures to stop bleeding, first, enterprises may consider whether they can cut down the cash flow consumption of relatively large business; and enterprises can also coordinate upstream and downstream, payable into deferred payments, etc.
第三类是否能和员工商量薪酬缓发薪酬，降低薪酬，和员工协商，做出补偿方案，比如缓发的计划，如果为了保证现金流，降薪，用公司期权来补偿，对公司共克时艰的激励。
The third category deals with employees about slow pay, pay cuts, and compensation plans, such as slow-release programs, if the company's options are used to compensate for cash flow cuts.
这些方法可以帮助企业短期内降低经营的现金流成本。
These methods can help companies reduce cash flow costs in the short term.
就造血而言，每个企业不一样，需要根据自身状况寻找创收条件，比如线下转到线上，开发线上服务，目前已经两三家企业业绩因此反而变好。
As far as hematopoiesis is concerned, each enterprise needs to find income-generating conditions based on its own circumstances, such as offline switching to online services, which has led to better results for two or three companies.
为了共克时艰，我们近期还发起成立了一个春光战“疫”共同体，让被投企业、春光系企业和春光里的合作单位之间有效对接资源与技术，互帮互助，在疫情期间也能促进业务增长。
In order to overcome these difficulties, we also recently launched the Spring Light War "plague" community, which enables investment enterprises, Chunguang enterprises and partners in Chunguang to effectively connect resources and technology, help each other, and promote business growth during an epidemic.
比如一些做线上业务的公司可以帮餐饮企业开发线上业务，做直播的公司可以帮助其他企业在直播平台做业务推广等。
For example, some companies doing on-line business can help catering enterprises to develop online business, do live companies can help other enterprises in the live broadcast platform to do business promotion.
输血的方式主要有政府和银行的扶持等。
Blood transfusions are mainly provided by the government and banks.
除了这些方式，还有一种方式，从融资的角度来做，向原股东和投资人继续融资。
In addition to these approaches, there is also a way to do this from a financing perspective, by continuing to raise capital from former shareholders and investors.
比如一些企业还处于烧钱的阶段，需要依靠融资支撑的公司，这些企业还没到真正产生效益的时候，可以考虑降低估值等来进行融资。
For example, some companies are still in the money-burning stage, need to rely on financing to support the company, these enterprises have not really come to the benefit of the time, can consider lowering valuation and so on to finance.
同时还可以实行股转债，如果最终企业经营失败，可以将投资人的股权转为债权，公司经营者合力承担这部分债权。
At the same time, it can also carry out the debt conversion. If the enterprise fails, the investor's equity can be converted into a creditor's right.
建议成立疫情专项基金目前政府也出台了一些扶持政策，不过有些政策“远水难解近渴”。
Proposed the establishment of a special fund for the epidemic is also the Government has introduced some support policies, but some "distant water not quenching thirst."
政策的制定者，对企业实际痛点的需求了解不够，这可能导致制定政策的准确性、及时性和普惠性上会出现一些问题。
Policy makers do not have sufficient knowledge of the actual pain point needs of enterprises, which may lead to problems in the accuracy, timeliness and inclusiveness of policy formulation.
在政策的准确性上，目前的银行放贷本身有很多条框，对于没有固定资产的企业很难获得银行的贷款。
In terms of policy accuracy, current bank lending itself has many rules, making it difficult for companies without fixed assets to obtain bank loans.
政府或者监管机构应该制定更详细的放贷条件。
More detailed lending conditions should be set by the government or regulators.
政策的及时性也有待提高，很多企业急等资金周转，但是目前的贷款流程偏长。
The timeliness of the policy also needs to be improved, many enterprises such as emergency liquidity, but the current loan process is too long.
，很多企业此外，政策的普惠性不够，往往一些和政府对接比较多的企业能更快得到贷款，而对接不多的企业则难以获得资金。
In addition, many firms are not inclusive enough to get loans faster for those that are more connected to the government and harder to access finance for those that do not.
针对这些不足，我提出几点建议，供决策层参考。
In response to these shortcomings, I put forward several recommendations for decision-making reference.
一是设立快速申请贷款的端口，比如集中几家大的银行，针对疫情中的企业，形成一个约定贷款利率，建立在线的审批机制，满足哪些具体条件，企业可以获得贷款，这样整个贷款流程才能更快更及时。
One is to set up fast-track loan application ports, such as a few large banks, to form an agreed lending rate for enterprises in the epidemic, set up an online approval mechanism, and meet specific conditions, so that enterprises can obtain loans, so that the entire loan process can be faster and more timely.
现在的状况是，政策对银行没有约束，依靠银行自觉，哪个银行愿意做就做，不愿意做就不做。
What is happening is that policy is not binding on banks, depending on their self-awareness, which banks are willing to do, and unwilling not to do.
二是将社保的缓交和免交结合，并让政策真正落地。
Second, the social security of the slow and non-exchange combination, and let the real landing policy.
目前很多地方政府出台了社保缓交政策，实际上应该将缓交和免交结合，结合企业自身情况，让企业免交2-3个月社保，以帮助企业平稳渡过资金关。
At present, many local governments have introduced social security deferment policy, in fact should be deferred and exempted from the combination of the company's own situation, so that enterprises can pay 2-3 months of social security, to help enterprises smooth over the financial customs.
不要等到企业没有生命体征了，再进行挽救。
Don't wait until the company has no signs of life before rescuing it.
三是建立有能力的城市成立疫情专项基金，这部分资金来自政府的引导基金，有的城市有一两百亿元的基金，可以暂时拿出10-20亿元，用于特定扶持。
Third, set up special funds for the establishment of epidemic diseases in capable cities. These funds come from government-guided funds. Some cities have 10-20 billion yuan in funds, which can be used temporarily to provide 1-2 billion yuan for specific support.
政府可以遴选一些有发展潜力的企业，进行定向的救助、投资。
The government can select some enterprises with development potential and make targeted aid and investment.
未来三类投资机构能生存这场疫情的影响显然是非常广泛的，无论对创投机构而言，还是对一般企业而言。
The impact of the next three types of investment institutions on the survival of the epidemic is clearly widespread, both for VCs and for businesses in general.
不过，在这场空前的危机中，一些机遇正在向我们走来。
However, in this unprecedented crisis, a number of opportunities are coming to us.
事实上，创投企业寒冬在这场疫情之前早已到来，目前已经从“钱荒”转变到了“钱空”的状态。
In fact, venture capital enterprises in the winter in the pre-epidemic has long come, from "money shortage" to "money empty" status.
根据我的判断，未来只有三类投资机构能生存，第一类是已经处于头部的投资机构，他们处于强者恒强阶段；第二类是狙击手型的投资机构，对企业投资瞄得特别准；第三类是生态链式的创投机构，这也是春光里在遵循的模式。
In my judgement, there are only three types of investment institutions that will survive in the future, the first being investment institutions that are already in the forefront and that are in the strong, the second being sniper-type investment institutions, which are particularly well targeted towards businesses, and the third, eco-chain venture capitalists, which is the pattern being followed in Spring.
投资机构在国内大发展已经有20多年的历史了，生态链式的创投模式，在抵御寒冬的能力上也会更强一些，这一模式除了帮助投资人进行产业落地，赚取投资回报以外，还可以为其提供其他生态链上的服务。
Investment institutions have been growing in China for more than 20 years, and the eco-chain model is better able to withstand the winter, providing investors with other ecological services in addition to landing in the industry and earning a return on their investment.
跳出传统的投资机构来看，目前中国投资规模最大的公司是腾讯，腾讯依靠自身的生态链，在过去几年，投资了110多家独角兽公司，其中有70几家公司上市。
Tencent, by far the largest investor in China, has invested outside the traditional institutions, relying on its own ecological chain and investing in more than 110 Licorne companies over the past few years, of which more than 70 are listed.
它依靠生态赋能企业，获取了超额回报。
It relies on eco-enabling enterprises to obtain excess returns.
还有阿里、小米等都在采用这一模式。
And Ali, millet and so on are using this model.
我们虽然无法和这些行业巨头相比，但是我们认为，遵循生态链的模式，才能让自身有更好的发展。
We cannot compare ourselves to these giants, but we believe that only by following the ecological chain can we be better able to develop ourselves.
至于未来的投资方向，短期的疫情不会对我们的投资逻辑带来重大影响。
As for the future direction of investment, the short-term epidemic will not have a significant impact on our investment logic.
我们未来会继续重仓智能新经济，这次疫情让我们意识到，未来还需加大这个方向的投资力度。
We will continue to build a smart new economy in the future, and the epidemic has taught us that we need to invest more in this direction in the future.
根据我们的判断，未来的企业分为三类：一是人工智能企业，；二是智能+企业，如智能+消费，智能+文旅等，让智能和传统产业相结合；三是被智能淘汰的企业。
According to our judgment, enterprises of the future are divided into three groups: those of artificial intelligence, two are intelligent + enterprises, such as intelligent + consumption, intelligent + cultural brigade, etc., so that the combination of intelligence and traditional industry; and third, enterprises that are intelligently eliminated.
2003年的非典催生国内电子商务的崛起，这一轮疫情则有可能加速产业向移动互联网、智能互联网的升级。
The 2003 SARS epidemic spawned the rise of domestic e-commerce, which could accelerate the upgrading of industries to mobile Internet and smart Internet.
从微观上看，这次疫情对未来的创业可能带来的影响包括：催生众多智能化平台、加速众包合伙人的发展趋势。
At the micro level, the potential impact of the epidemic on future start-ups includes: the emergence of a number of intelligent platforms, accelerate the trend of crowd-sourcing partners.
未来的趋势是反大公司化，被平台赋能的个体的合伙人会越来越多；同时一些企业之间的合伙模式会增强，比如在这次疫情中，一些快递公司招募了很多餐饮公司的员工，帮助其理货等；还有一种模式是内部裂变式创业，一家几百人的公司裂变为多个事业部，各个事业部自负盈亏，这样的模式既可以调动员工的积极性，还可以令企业将风险化解到各个事业部身上，增强抗风险的能力。
In the future, there will be more and more partners of individuals who are empowered by the platform. At the same time, some companies will strengthen their partnerships. For example, in this outbreak, some express delivery companies have recruited many employees of catering companies to help them manage their goods.
如果把疫情看做一场灾难的话，并不必然产生伟大企业，不过，我们也不能排除，可能有企业因为灾难而伟大。
If the epidemic is seen as a disaster, it does not necessarily lead to great business, but we cannot rule out that there may be enterprises that are great because of disaster.
在此次疫情结束后，我们会加大对中小企业的投资。
After this outbreak is over, we will increase our investment in small and medium-sized enterprises.
投资要判断波峰和波谷，疫情令一些企业跌到波谷，其估值更具潜力。
Investment to judge peaks and troughs, the epidemic caused some companies to fall to the trough, its valuation more potential.
同时，我们相信，能够在经济寒冬和罕见疫情的双重冲击下活下来的企业，肯定更具投资价值。
At the same time, we believe that companies that can survive the double winters of an economic winter and rare outbreaks will certainly have more investment value.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中小微企业如何抗疫渡难关？VC支招：止血、造血、输血。
How to fight the difficulties of micro and small enterprises? VC support: hemostasis, hematopoiesis, blood transfusion.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "中小微企业如何抗疫渡难关？VC支招：止血、造血、输血";。
var msg _ title = & quot; How did MSMEs survive? VC Tips: Stop bleeding, hematopoiesis, and blood transfusion & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "“企业要想活下去，当前最关键的是要管理好现金流。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "The most critical thing a company can do to survive is managing its cash flow.
如果现金流枯竭，企业很难摆脱倒闭的命运。
If cash flow dried up, it would be hard for companies to get out of business.
”";。
";;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
