穿行疫区的快递员：单量倍增基层全上阵，社区门难进。
Passing through epidemic area courier: Single multiplication grass-roots all up, community door difficult to enter.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 俞琴。
Author Yu Qin.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
_在新冠肺炎疫情中心区域，远比平时忙碌的快递员在街头难见其他人，遇到别家公司的快递员，大家叫不上名字，但都打个招呼，在特殊的时点里惺惺相惜_文|《财经》记者俞琴编辑 |鲁伟新冠肺炎疫情在武汉蔓延后，整座城市开始对体温敏感起来，街巷旁、社区口，不时有人喊住尚黎明：“来，量个体温！”尚黎明是一名快递员，供职于京东物流武汉宝丰营业部，其配送范围在疫情中心区域，囊括了武汉协和医院、武汉肺科医院。
... in the heart of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, far more busy couriers than usual in the streets, meeting couriers from other companies who can't name them, greet each other, but greet each other.
截至2月10日，人口超过千万的武汉，新冠肺炎确诊病例为18454人。
As of February 10, Wuhan, with a population of more than 10 million, had 18,454 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia.
对于这份身处疫城中心的工作，尚黎明谈不上有多害怕，主要是担心把病毒传给家人，“一个人不幸染上，能靠自己扛。
There was little fear of working in the center of the plague city until dawn, mainly for fear of transmitting the virus to family members. "A man who has the misfortune to live on his own.
”到了2月5日，危险一下子在他眼前“变得直观”。
By February 5, the danger had suddenly become apparent to him.
那是一个开放式的老小区，每栋楼新标注了“有疫楼栋”或“无疫楼栋”，黄底黑字，一进楼梯口便赫然入目。
It was an old open area, each building was newly marked with "plague building" or "epidemic-free building," in black and yellow letters, into the stairwell.
楼栋很矮，爬上“有疫楼栋”，尚黎明不敢照常喘息，“一个人下来，你不知道他是不是发热的。
The building is very short, climbed the "epidemic building", but the dawn dare not as usual breathing, "a man down, you do not know whether he is feverish.
”自1月23日10时起，有九省通衢之称的武汉宣布暂停轮渡、长途客运，暂时关闭机场、火车站等离开通道，严防新冠肺炎疫情扩散。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, Wuhan, which has been the thoroughfare of nine provinces, has suspended ferry service and long-distance passenger transport, temporarily closing airports and railway stations to prevent the spread of the disease.
这些罕见的重大举措，被外界称为“封城”抗疫情。
These rare major measures, known as the "closure" of the city against the epidemic.
城内，公交、地铁停运，社区实行封闭式管理。
City, public transport, subway stop, the community to implement a closed management.
物流成了武汉城内不可或缺的依赖。
Logistics has become the city of Wuhan indispensable dependence.
医院向外发出物资紧缺的求援信号；居家隔离的武汉市民，从互联网下单，囤积米面油盐；大量物资涌向武汉，分派到各个物流点。
Hospitals sent out desperate signals for help; homebound Wuhan residents, ordered from the Internet, hoarded rice noodle oil and salt; and a flood of supplies poured into Wuhan, where they were dispatched to various logistics points.
和尚黎明一样，快递员罗宗平的配送范围也在疫情中心区域，他所在的丹鸟物流武汉花桥站，距华南海鲜市场仅1公里左右。
Monk dawn, express delivery Luo Zongping's distribution scope is also in the center of the epidemic area, his Danish Bird logistics station Huaxao Wuhan, only about 1 km from the South China seafood market.
华南海鲜市场位于武汉市江汉区，曾是华中地区最大的海鲜水产批发市场，除海鲜外，市场还以其售卖的兔子、野鸡、蛇等“野味”而为人知晓。
South China Seafood Market, located in Jianghan District, Wuhan, was once the largest wholesale seafood market in central China. Besides seafood, the market is known for its game of rabbit, pheasant and snake.
一场疫情令这个市场往日的热闹戛然而止。
An outbreak of the disease brought an end to the old bustle of the market.
2019年底，武汉发生多起不明肺炎病例，患者多与华南海鲜市场有关联。
At the end of 2019, Wuhan has a number of cases of unidentified pneumonia, patients are mostly associated with the South China seafood market.
这之后，有关部门决定对华南海鲜批发市场实行休市，进行环境卫生整治。
After this, the department concerned decided to South China Seafood Wholesale Market to suspend market, carry on the environmental hygiene rectification.
在罗宗平配送的快递里，有时仍会收到地址写成华南海鲜市场的，他只好打电话问来新地址。
In Luo Zongping delivery, sometimes still received the address of the South China Seafood Market, he had to call to ask for a new address.
记下一串新的地址，至于电话那头的收件人，是否曾在华南海鲜市场做生意，是卖水果的还是卖野生动物的，罗宗平没敢细想。
Write down a list of new addresses. As for the addressees on the other end of the line, have they ever done business in the seafood market in South China, be they fruit sellers or wild animals? Luo Zongping didn't dare to think about it.
他表示，当骑车经过休市整顿的华南海鲜市场时，他还会觉得害怕。
He said he was still frightened as he rode past the South China seafood market, which had been closed.
尚黎明和罗宗平均对《财经》记者表示，今年春节单量暴涨，相比往年同期至少翻了一番。
Shang Dawn and Luo Zong told Caijing on average that the volume of Spring Festival has soared this year, at least double the same period in previous years.
由于人手不足，基层管理人员重回一线送快递。
Lack of staff, grass-roots managers back to express delivery line.
街面冷清，送件途中遇到的，多是环卫工、协警、社区工作人员、外卖员，或是别家的快递员。
Street surface cold, on the way to meet, are sanitation workers, police, community workers, take-out workers, or other express delivery.
同一派送区域，两家公司的快递员一打照面，仿佛见到老朋友。
In the same sending area, couriers from two companies met each other as if they had met an old friend.
一个招呼说：“哎，你也出来了！”另一个则打趣：“这么危险，你还出来啊？”他们说不出对方的名字，在特殊的时点里惺惺相惜。
One said, "Hey, you came out, too!" Another joked, "So dangerous, you come out?" They couldn't name each other, and at a particular point in time they were dear to each other.
单量大涨，基层管理者也上一线“这次疫情，真的是感觉大数据在中间的角色特别重要。
Single-volume rise, grass-roots management also on the first line "This outbreak, is really feel big data in the middle of the role is particularly important.
”京东物流华中市场部负责人司思向《财经》记者表示，日常情况下，京东会通过数据分析预测未来的订单量。
Jing Dong's head of central China logistics, Shisi, told Caijing that under normal circumstances, Jingdong will use data analysis to forecast future orders.
早在疫情前期，京东就从后台数据观察到，口罩、消毒液，甚至白醋、维生素C的订单量开始上涨了，这促使他们去及时备货、调动资源。
Early in the epidemic, Jingdong observed from backstage data that orders for masks, disinfectants, and even white vinegar and vitamin C began to rise, prompting them to stock up and mobilize resources in time.
数据所反馈的信息远不止于此。
The data provide much more than that.
司思称，整个供应链环节都是环环相扣的，京东能够从数据上看到问题，也从前线获得一些声音，通过整体数据的研判做出决策。
'The entire supply chain is interconnected, 'says Mr. Sims.' Jingdong can see problems from the data and get some voice from the front line and make decisions based on the overall data.
比如，在多少车辆、人员的储备的情况下才能满足这些消费者的订单；部分城市“封城”后，医疗物资可以送过去，但是民生物资不一定能送过去，这种情况下，需要注意哪些商品存在超时的可能性，再决定上游是否要调整生产；如果末端发生特殊情况，仓储端能够通过大数据反应过来，马上停止生产或者智慧排布产能，不会出现货物全部到站点或者堆在高速口的情况。
For example, the number of vehicles and personnel in the stock to meet these consumer orders; some cities "closed", medical supplies can be delivered, but not necessarily delivered, the need to pay attention to the possibility of overtime, upstream to determine whether to adjust production; if special circumstances occur at the end, the warehouse can immediately stop production or intelligent layout capacity.
司思表示，疫情期间，京东物流由集团进行统筹，区域公司去做前线的调度，区域公司之所以能够有效地去做决策，正是因为有大数据的支撑。
During the epidemic, says Sith, Jing Dong Logistics was co-ordinated by the group, regional companies did front-line dispatching, and regional companies were able to make decisions effectively because of big data support.
除了科技的力量，人更是物流的重要环节。
In addition to the power of technology, people are an important link in logistics.
物流行业人士表示，高科技、大数据的力量再大，一个完整的物流行业，还是需要最平凡的、最传统的人的坚守，其中包括线下的救援平台、供货平台，以及克服恐惧的物流工作者。
Logistics industry personnel said that the power of high-tech, big data, a complete logistics industry, or the most mundane, the most traditional people adhere to, including online rescue platform, supply platform, and overcome the fear of logistics workers.
罗宗平是丹鸟物流武汉花桥站站长，包括他在内，花桥站共有12名员工，日均派件量为1000件左右。
Luo Zongping is the stationmaster of Wuhan Huaxiao Station, including him, Huaxiao Station has 12 employees, with an average daily dispatch of about 1000 pieces.
往常过年期间，单量要下跌一半，只需一半员工留守。
Normally during the New Year, the unit volume to fall by half, only half of the staff left behind.
此次受疫情影响，单量蹭蹭往上涨，但一半员工已经回家过年，留守下来的员工，要比平时多干一倍的活儿。
As a result of the outbreak, half of the workers have returned home for the Chinese New Year and the rest of the staff are doing twice as much work as usual.
丹鸟物流是菜鸟网络旗下的配送公司，负责天猫超市的配送。
Dan bird logistics is a rookie network distribution company, responsible for the distribution of the cat supermarket.
抵达丹鸟物流站点前，快件的上一站在猫超仓。
Arrive at the Danish Bird Logistics Station before the express stop at the Cat Overrun.
负责仓储的猫超仓，面临和末端物流站点同样的压力。
The cat in charge of warehousing is facing the same pressure as the terminal logistics site.
菜鸟武汉猫超仓负责人严佩告诉《财经》记者，疫情期间，单量增加一两倍，员工每天的工作时间从8小时增加至12小时。
The head of the rookie Wuhan Cat Hyperbarn told Caijing that during the outbreak, the number of unit hours tripled, and the number of hours a day worked by employees increased from 8 to 12.
春节期间，严佩在武汉的家里，为了尽快赶回单位支援同事，她驾车尝试了许多条路线才走通。
During the Spring Festival, Yan Pei in Wuhan home, in order to hurry back to support her colleagues, she tried a lot of routes to go through.
大年初三，丹鸟物流硚口站站长井凤玲从河南老家返回武汉支援同事。
On the third day of New Year, the station master Jingfeng Ling back from Henan back to Wuhan to support colleagues.
由于“封村”，老家乡镇的道路被泥土、石头和树干堵住，她找了挖掘机开路才得以从老家出来。
As a result of the "village," her hometown township roads were blocked by earth, stones and tree trunks, she found excavators to open the way out of her hometown.
上高速时，交警提醒她，“现在进武汉就出不去了。
On the high speed, the traffic police reminded her, "now into Wuhan can not get out.
”她解释，自己是负责配送的，保障武汉市民网购的生活物资能送达，必须进武汉，最终被放行。
She explained that she was in charge of distribution and that the supplies bought by Wuhan People's Net could reach her and had to go into Wuhan and eventually be released.
尚黎明是站长助理，他所在的物流点规模稍大，日均派送量2500件左右，正常配置是站长1人、站长助理2人、送件员21人。
Shang Dawn is assistant station master, his logistics point is a bit larger, the daily average delivery capacity of around 2,500 pieces, the normal configuration is a stationmaster, two assistant station master, 21 messengers.
到“封城”时，共有16名员工回家过年。
By the time the city was closed, 16 employees had come home for the New Year.
单量一涨，两个站点都忙成了陀螺，本不送件的基层管理者纷纷上一线，另一面，焦急地呼唤员工返岗。
A single rise, both stations are busy into gyroscope, not the basic managers have a line, the other side, anxiously called staff back to work.
但此时，即便员工有心回来也难了，“就算出得了村，也进不了城”。
But at this point, even if the staff have the heart to return to the difficult, "even if you can get out of the village, can not enter the city."
罗宗平称，回家过年的员工，远的有在新疆的，由于是从武汉返回的，正在家中隔离。
Luo Zongping said that the staff back home for the New Year, far away in Xinjiang, as a result of returning from Wuhan, is isolated at home.
最近的一位住在武汉黄陂区，往常通勤一小时，但现在公交停了，出行困难。
The nearest Pi District of Huangpi District, Wuhan, used to commute for an hour, but now the bus has stopped and it is difficult to travel.
大多数人来自湖北其他地区，而此时，武汉以外，湖北大多数城市同样处于“封城”状态，想从家里回到武汉，可谓关卡重重。
Most of them come from other parts of Hubei province, while outside Wuhan, most of the cities in Hubei are also in a "closed" state.
春节期间，菜鸟武汉猫超仓有150人留守，最近常有员工担心，自己什么时候才能回家。
During the Spring Festival, Wuhan cat rookie 150 people stay behind, recently often staff worried about when they can go home.
因此，对于基层管理者，如何安抚在岗员工也成了一项重要工作。
Therefore, for the grass-roots managers, how to pacify the incumbent staff has also become an important work.
严佩说，在武汉“封城”的形势下，员工无法离开武汉。
Yan said that in Wuhan "closed" situation, the staff can not leave Wuhan.
从1月22日开始，菜鸟武汉猫超仓给所有一线员工配备了防护物资，包括医用口罩和硫磺皂。
Since Jan. 22, the rookie Wuhan Cat has outfitted all front-line workers with protective gear, including medical masks and sulphur soaps.
所有的仓、分拨中心、站点每天定时消毒，执行最严格的预防措施，对于工作人员尤其是一线配送员的健康状况做到每日多次监测，“让员工觉得在仓库工作比在家里更安全”。
Regularly disinfect all warehouses, distribution centres and stations on a daily basis, implement the most stringent preventive measures, monitor the health of staff, especially front-line distributors, several times a day, and "make employees feel safer working in warehouses than at home."
同时，公司也给员工购买了专门的新型冠状病毒保险，从衣食住行等多个方面给员工增加福利，从心理上鼓舞他们。
At the same time, the company also bought special coronavirus insurance for employees, from food, clothing, housing and other aspects to increase the welfare of staff, psychological boost them.
员工有任何诉求，人力部门都会给予解答。
The HR department will give answers to any requests from employees.
罗宗平所在的站点也把防护措施升到了最高级——每日3次以上的测温，带护目镜手套、医用口罩配送，还按照协和医生给的建议，让配送员基本与家人隔离住宿。
Luo Zongping's site has also upgraded its protective measures to the highest level - more than three times a day - with goggles, gloves, medical masks, and, on the advice of Concorde's doctor, the distributor is largely separated from his family.
口罩之外，米面油盐订单最多一面是单量暴涨，另一面则是难以逾越的社区大门。
In addition to masks, orders for rice noodle oil and salt are at best single-digit surges, while the other side is an impenetrable community door.
往常，快递员可以进社区，敲响收件人的家门。
Usually, couriers can enter the community and knock on the recipient's door.
即便没人在家，大多数人也会同意把快递放门口。
Even if no one is at home, most people will agree to leave the express at the door.
但疫情期间，社区采取了封闭式管理，快递员进不了小区，门卫也不愿代收快递，因此只能在小区门口完成交接。
However, during the epidemic period, the community adopted a closed management, express delivery workers can not enter the community, the doorman is not willing to collect express, so can only be completed in the cell door.
这一过程有时极为漫长。
This process is sometimes extremely lengthy.
“有时候打个电话要等20分钟，如果一堆货，要送二三十个人怎么办？”尚黎明说，快递不能进小区导致送件效率低下，每天站点都有快递囤积。
"Sometimes it takes 20 minutes to make a phone call, and if you have a pile of goods, what do you do with twenty or thirty people," Shang Dawn said.
罗宗平怕去大型社区送件，面积大，从边角上的那幢楼走到门口，本就需要不少时间，再加上里面道路七绕八弯，出楼栋、出小区还都要经历关卡，更是让他等得心焦。
Luo Zongping afraid to send pieces to the large community, the area, from the corner of the building to the door, it would have taken a lot of time, plus the inside road seven twists and turns, out of the building, out of the block also have to go through checkpoints, let him worry.
一次，他去武汉万松园小区送件，还不到社区，就提前打了电话，让收件人准备下楼，但等他到小区门口，还没见着人。
Once, he went to Wuhan Wansong Garden district to send pieces, not to the community, called ahead of time, let the recipient ready to go downstairs, but when he arrived at the gate of the district, he has not seen anyone.
他反反复复打了好几次电话，“每次客户都说，快了快了”，但罗宗平最终等了将近1个小时，收件人才出现在小区门口。
He made several phone calls over and over again. "Every time the customer said it was fast," Luo finally waited for nearly an hour before the recipient showed up at the gate.
“禁止快递员进小区，乍看是为了更有力地防疫，但很可能走向防控的反面。
"Banning couriers from the area may at first appear to be an attempt to prevent disease more forcefully, but is likely to lead to the opposite side of the spectrum.
”在2月6日的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，国家邮政局市场监管司副司长侯延波就“小区不让快递员进入影响投递速度”问题回应称，通过邮件快件传播的风险极低，从疫情防控的角度考虑，更优的做法是让快递员进小区，而不是将他们挡在小区门外，让居民亲自下楼去拿。
In a February 6 news conference, Hou Yanbo, deputy director of the National Post Office's Market Supervision Department, said the risks of express mail transmission were extremely low. From the point of view of disease prevention and control, it would be better for couriers to enter the area rather than block them out and send residents downstairs for collection.
他同时呼吁，设有智能快件箱的小区能够为快递小哥打开方便之门，至于没有智能快件箱的也建议划定出特定区域用来收投邮件和快件。
He also called on small areas with smart express boxes to open the door for couriers, and those without smart express boxes were advised to designate specific areas for mail and express delivery.
往常过年期间，坚果类的单子较多，今年画风突变。
Normally during the New Year, the list of nuts more, this year's painting style mutated.
除了口罩，武汉地区的消费者，更倾向于囤粮。
Besides masks, consumers in Wuhan tend to hoard grain.
罗宗平经手的快递，多是米面油盐。
Luo Zongping through the express delivery, mostly rice noodle oil salt.
一天，他送一个快件，电话迟迟没人接听，直到晚上8点，天黑了，客户才回电。
One day, he sent a express. No one answered the phone until 8 pm. It was dark before the customer called back.
那是一对老夫妇，罗宗平对他们说，现在已经下班了，再送要到明天。
It was an old couple, Luo Zongping told them that it was time to leave work and send it to tomorrow.
老人解释道，家里快断粮了，疫情期间不敢出门，特地让儿子在网上买的米。
The old man explained that the family was running out of food and did not dare to go out during the outbreak.
罗宗平找到那个快件，果然是袋米。
Luo Zongping found the express and it was a bag of rice.
他突然发觉，原来自己做的事情，是在解决别人的温饱问题。
It suddenly dawned on him that what he had done was to feed and clothe others.
口罩是另一项刚需。
Mask is another just needed.
罗宗平向《财经》记者提到一个最近令他“哭笑不得”的案例：客户是个20多岁的女孩，接到罗宗平送货的电话千恩万谢：“非常非常感谢，我还以为收不到了！”但此时，罗宗平被拦在小区门外不让进，而女孩也下不了楼——出楼必须要戴口罩，但她连一个口罩都没有，这次快递送到的也正是一盒口罩。
Lo told Caijing about a recent case that made him "cry and laugh": a 20-year-old girl who received a phone call from Luo Zongping for delivery: "Thank you very much, I thought I couldn't get it!" But at this point, Luo Zongping was barred from entering the compound and the girl could not get out.
罗宗平跟保安说了很多好话，量体温、填登记表、喷消毒水，总算进了小区。
Luo Zongping and the security guard said a lot of good words, temperature, fill in the registration form, spray disinfectant, finally entered the community.
客户拆开包裹，拿出两只口罩送给罗宗平，让他高兴了很久。
The customer opened the package, took out two masks for Luo Zongping, let him happy for a long time.
偶尔也有令罗宗平生气的事。
Occasionally there are things that make Luo Zongping angry.
一次，订单是两箱水，送货地点是一个距离华南海鲜市场数百米远的小区，客户不愿下楼来拿，保安又不让罗宗平进。
Once, the order is two boxes of water, delivery location is a seafood market hundreds of meters away from the small area, customers do not want to come downstairs to pick up, security guards do not let Luo Zongping.
客户态度强硬，在电话里说：“你不送就投诉。
The customer was tough and said on the phone: "If you don't send it, complain.
”货没送成，罗宗平收到这名客户的三个投诉。
The goods were not delivered, and Luo received three complaints from the customer.
后来保安告诉罗宗平，他送货的客户早就感染了，所以没法出来。
Later the security guard told Luo Zongping that his delivery customer had been infected, so he could not come out.
罗宗平心有余悸。
Luo Zongping's heart palpitates.
“整个过年，几万件包裹，就遇到这么一件（令人生气的）事。
"This is the kind of thing that happens to tens of thousands of parcels over the New Year.
”罗宗平说，大部分客户对他态度友好，有的还会发消息跟他说，“非常感谢，注意安全”。
Mr. Luo said most of his clients were friendly and some would send messages saying, 'Thank you very much, be safe.
司思称，疫情期间，很多商品在线下都买不到的情况下，大家发现原来线上还可以购买，即便有些地区做了延迟发货，但是对于消费者来说，能够把货交到他手上，已经是超出人们的预期了。
During the epidemic, when many goods were not available online, it was found that the original line could still be purchased, and even if some areas delayed delivery, it was more than consumers expected to be able to deliver the goods to him.
因此，收到了不少来自消费者的好评。
As a result, many positive comments were received from consumers.
京东以往对员工有效率、时效的指标，但疫情期间，没有对送件员做那么严格的考核了，因为快递小哥是战斗在前线的“逆行者”。
Jingdong used to be efficient, time-sensitive indicators of staff, but during the epidemic, the inbox did not do so strict assessment, because the courier is the front-line "inverse."
送到协和的物资，“每天要拖四五趟”临近春节的一天，罗宗平注意到一个奇怪的快件，收件地址写了武汉协和医院，但没写收件人的姓名、电话。
On the eve of the Spring Festival, Luo Zongping noticed a strange express which had written the name and telephone number of the recipient of Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
他很懵，拨通了寄件人的电话，对方让他直接到医院，“随便找个医生护士”。
He was so stunned that he dialed the sender's phone and asked him to go directly to the hospital.
罗宗平照做了，护士却被吓了一跳，忙向他摆手：“我不收东西、不收东西。
When Luo Zongping did it, the nurse was startled and waved to him, "I don't take anything or anything.
”这之后，寄往协和医院的物资，一下子多了起来。
"After that, supplies to the Concorde hospital jumped to a head.
罗宗平这才想到，原来之前那个没有收件人的快递，实际上是网民的捐赠物资。
Luo Zongping this just thought, the original there was no recipient express, in fact, is a donation of materials netizens.
由于医疗物资和药品在市场上都很难买到、处于短缺状态，不少医护人员只能自己寻找途径购买。
Because medical supplies and medicines are hard to get in the market and in short supply, many medical workers have to find their own way to buy.
自1月23日起，湖北省中医院、华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院、武汉大学人民医院、武汉大学中南医院、武汉市第三医院等医院先后发出公告，向社会各界征集捐赠医疗物资。
Since January 23, hospitals in Hubei Province, Tongji Medical College of Huabei University of Science and Technology, Concorde Hospital, Wuhan University People's Hospital, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital and Wuhan Third Hospital have issued notices to solicit donations of medical materials from the general public.
据罗宗平介绍，“封城”以来，每天站里都能收到上百件送往协和医院的爱心物资，最多的时候有200多件，有时候是站里配送到医院，有时候是医院派车来接收，最早的时候是早晨5点多就有车来安排接收，收货的医生看到贴着黄标签的包裹特别高兴，因为这些是防护物资。
According to Luo Zongping, hundreds of items of charity were sent to Concorde Hospital every day. At best, more than 200 items were delivered to hospitals. Sometimes they were delivered to hospitals.
协和医院有不少新冠肺炎病人，病人通常从1号门进出，4号门靠近家属区，有少量患者出入。
Concorde Hospital has a number of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia, patients usually enter and leave Gate 1, Gate 4 is close to the family area and a small number of patients are admitted.
罗宗平往常卸货是在3号门、4号门，偶尔也能碰见病人，“一看见穿条纹衣的，立马就站得远远的。
Luo Zongping used to unload the goods at gates 3 and 4, and occasionally he would run into patients. At the sight of those in striped clothes, they would stand far away.
”每天早晨7点，分拣中心的车到站点，尚黎明早早在那等候卸货。
Every morning at seven o'clock the pick-up centre drove to the station, where the dawn was still waiting to be unloaded.
疫情期间，派送到协和的物资量特别大，如果用站点的车运送，“至少要拖四五趟”。
During the outbreak, supplies sent to Concorde were particularly large, "at least four or five times" if transported by station wagon.
收件栏上写得五花八门，比如“白衣天使”、“任意医务人员”、“门卫转医生护士”、“请快递小哥替我转送到这些可敬可爱的人手上”……尚黎明说，他第一次见到这些快递单上的文字，感到振奋人心、很震撼。
The receipt column was full of things like "angels in white," "arbitrary medical staff," "doorman to doctor nurse," "please courier brother transfer me to these respectable lovely hands..." Shang Dawn said that he was heartened and shocked to see the words on these express lists for the first time.
据《财经》记者了解，京东物流疫情物资专项行动小组承担内外部物资统筹等职责，但在武汉以及疫情较为突出的其他城市，前方有很大的决策以及应变权利。
According to Caijing News reporter, Jingdong Logistics Epidemic Materials Task Force is responsible for internal and external material coordination, but in Wuhan and other cities where the epidemic is more prominent, there are great decision-making and contingency rights ahead.
经过申请，在武汉，京东方面同意直接让分拣中心的车把货物送到协和医院。
After the application, in Wuhan, Jingdong agreed to let the sorting center's car deliver the goods directly to Concorde Hospital.
第一次去协和医院送货，司机到了协和医院4号门，不愿再开进去，而这里距离捐赠中心还有500米远。
At the first delivery to Concorde Hospital, the driver arrived at Gate 4 of the Concorde Hospital and refused to drive in again, 500 metres from the donation center.
“趋吉避凶，是人之常情，我能理解。
"It's human nature to try to avoid evil, I understand.
”尚黎明说，最后他下了车，用拖车来来回回拉了三四趟。
"At last he got out of the car and dragged the trailer back and forth three or four times.
菜鸟网络相关人士介绍，武汉“封城”第三天，菜鸟联合国内外30多家物流公司开通武汉救援物资免费运输的绿色通道。
Wuhan "closed city" on the third day, more than 30 logistics companies inside and outside the United Nations opened Wuhan rescue materials free transport green channel.
全国、全球范围内的捐赠需求通过24小时的400热线汇总后，菜鸟的智能供应链后台结合当地路况、运力资源等因素，实时、动态地进行运力调配。
National and global donation needs through the 24-hour 400-hour hotline aggregate, the rookie's intelligent supply chain backstage combination of local road conditions, transportation resources and other factors, real-time, dynamic deployment of capacity.
截至2月10日，已将来自全球30个国家、地区的救援物资运往或正在运往国内，仅从韩国接货的口罩就达近1400万只。
As of February 10, aid supplies from 30 countries and regions had arrived or were in the process of being shipped to China. Nearly 14 million masks had been received from South Korea alone.
京东物流在1月21日即开始为湖北当地药企提供紧急药品运输，1月22日宣布开始优先配送医疗机构指定订单，1月25日正式开通全国各地驰援武汉救援物资的义务运输通道。
On January 21, Jingdong Logistics began to provide emergency drug transportation for local pharmaceutical companies in Hubei Province. On January 22, it announced that it would start assigning priority orders to medical institutions, and on January 25, it officially opened voluntary transportation routes across the country to help Wuhan rescue materials.
截至2月6日，京东物流通过智能动态调配，仓、运、配全面协同，将来自全国的共计超过1600吨防疫救援物资以及民生应急物资送往武汉及周边地区。
By February 6, Jingdong Logistics had sent more than 1,600 tons of epidemic prevention and rescue materials and emergency supplies from all over China to Wuhan and surrounding areas through intelligent and dynamic deployment, warehousing, transportation and distribution.
早在疫情发生前，尚黎明就看过韩国电影《流感》。
Even before the outbreak, South Korean film "Influenza" had been seen at dawn.
这部电影讲述的是致命猪流感病毒在城市蔓延的故事。
The film tells the story of the spread of deadly swine flu in the city.
和现实相似的是，电影里也封城了。
Similar to the reality, the movie has been closed.
尚黎明说，他看这部电影时，有一种无助感，认为人实在是很平常、很普通的。
Shang Dawn said he watched the film with a sense of helplessness that people were really ordinary and ordinary.
不同于观剧时的绝望，当电影里面的情节真实发生了，“最起码，我还能做点小事。
Unlike the desperation of watching a play, when the plot actually happens, "at least I can do a little thing.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
穿行疫区的快递员：单量倍增基层全上阵，社区门难进。
Passing through epidemic area courier: Single multiplication grass-roots all up, community door difficult to enter.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "穿行疫区的快递员：单量倍增基层全上阵，社区门难进";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在新冠肺炎疫情中心区域，远比平时忙碌的快递员在街头难见其他人，遇到别家公司的快递员，大家叫不上名字，但都打个招呼，在特殊的时点里惺惺相惜";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
