他拉着10万只口罩，开往已经封城的武汉。
He pulled 100,000 masks and headed for Wuhan, which has been closed.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
The following article comes from 卖家。
The following article comes from a seller.
Author 金斌。
Author Jin Bin.
卖家。
Seller.
浙报集团旗下创新媒体，讲述互联网人物故事。
Zhejiang Newspaper Group's innovative media, tell the story of Internet characters.
。
.
49岁的王慎才从未去过武汉，这是一趟完全陌生的旅程，前途未卜。
49-year-old Wang Shen-chai has never been to Wuhan, this is a completely strange journey, the future is uncertain.
他和这辆满载着口罩的蓝色大货车，将横穿安徽、江西两省，进入肺炎疫情的重灾区湖北，他的目的地是武汉的东西湖区卫生健康局，距离此次肺炎传播的核心重灾区汉口火车站，不过十几公里。
He and the blue van, loaded with face masks, will cross Anhui and Jiangxi provinces into the heavily pneumonia-stricken province of Hubei. His destination is Wuhan's East-West Lake District Health Bureau, just a dozen kilometers from Hankou Railway Station, the worst-hit area for pneumonia transmission.
文｜金斌编辑｜屠雁飞农历庚子年，初一正午12点多，安徽宁国的中通快递货车司机王慎才接到经理的电话，要他送一批救灾物资去武汉。
+ yeg + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, + +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, Wang Shen, the manager, received a telephone call from the manager.
老王感到很突然，他刚刚从村里的亲戚家串门回来，「舅舅、姑父、小姨家都还没走。
"Lao Wang felt very suddenly. He had just returned from his relatives' house in the village." My uncle, uncle and aunt are still at home.
」更何况，目的地是武汉，是疫区。
What's more, the destination was Wuhan, an epidemic area.
经理在电话那头没说话。
The manager didn't say anything on the phone.
老王问，什么物资？「十万个口罩。
Old Wang asks, what kind of material? "100,000 masks."
」「没事，跑一趟就跑一趟。
"" It's all right, just a run.
」老王说。
"said Wang.
启程初一下午3点，王慎才坐上了自己的大货车，发动机启动的那一刻，他心里突然有些紧张。
On the first day of departure at 3: 00 pm, Wang Shen just sat on his own big truck, the moment the engine started, his heart suddenly a little nervous.
跑了十几年的大货车，大风大浪经过不少，这种感觉却只有非典那一年才有过。
After more than 10 years of running big trucks, the wind and waves through a lot of this feeling is only SARS that year.
那时他被困在宁波，车不让上路，「好几天都躲在宾馆里，真的害怕。
He was trapped in Ningbo, and the car was not allowed to go on the road. "He stayed in a hotel for days, really scared.
」这是一辆9米6的新车，去年三月份才买，跑了不到十万公里。
It was a new 9 '6, bought in March last year and ran less than 100, 000 kilometers.
平时，老王只负责在宁国和芜湖之间跑，一天跑一个来回，忙的时候就跑两趟。
Usually, Lao Wang is only responsible for running between Ningguo and Wuhu, running back and forth once a day and twice while busy.
去年一直忙到年二十九，下午一点多才拉完最后一趟货。
I was so busy last year that I didn't finish the last one until one o'clock last afternoon.
老王把车子里里外外打理了一遍，干干净净地停到车位上，本想着，怎么也得过完了年，才能跟这个伙伴见面。
The old man took care of the inside and outside of the car, and stopped neatly in the parking lot, thinking that he would not be able to see his companion for another year.
不曾想，初一就要出车了。
Did not think, the first day of junior high school travel.
下午5点，王慎才接上副驾驶之后，将货车开到约定的仓库，两个装卸工把十万副口罩装进他的车厢，「挺大的一个仓库，货全都拿完了，空了。
At 5: 00 pm, Wang Shen took the copilot and drove it to the agreed warehouse. Two loaders put 100, 000 masks into his car.
」这十万副口罩的捐赠方说，这批口罩都是日本进口，级别非常高，「都是N100的。
The 100,000 mask donors said the masks were imported from Japan at a very high level, "all of them N100."
」点货签单时，王慎才突然想起，出门时，只带了点吃的和一件衣服，忘了戴上口罩，他急忙跟仓库要了几个，耳朵上挂一个，剩下的塞在仪表台上。
When he ordered the order, Wang Shen suddenly remembered that when he left home, he had only brought something to eat and a coat. He forgot to put on a mask.
一个装卸工问他，货送哪儿？老王也不隐瞒，说是送武汉的。
A loader asked him where the goods were to be delivered. Lao Wang did not conceal that he had sent them to Wuhan.
装卸工「哦」了一声，从兜里掏出半包烟塞给他说，去那边，注意安全。
"Oh," said the loader, taking half a pack of cigarettes out of his pocket and telling him to go over there, be careful.
从宁国出城上高速时，王慎才瞄了一眼时间，时间刚好走过下午6点。
Wang took a glimpse of the time just before 6 p. m., as he was taking a quick peek out of Ningguo.
他轻轻地踩下油门，福田大货车发出低沉的声浪，码表指针缓缓地转动起来。
He gently stepped on the gas pedal, the Fukuda truck made a low sound, and the hands of the watch slowly turned.
49岁的王慎才从未去过武汉，这是一趟完全陌生的旅程，前途未卜。
49-year-old Wang Shen-chai has never been to Wuhan, this is a completely strange journey, the future is uncertain.
他和这辆满载着口罩的蓝色大货车，将横穿安徽、江西两省，进入肺炎疫情的重灾区湖北，他的目的地是武汉的东西湖区卫生健康局，距离此次肺炎传播的核心重灾区汉口火车站，不过十几公里。
He and the blue van, loaded with face masks, will cross Anhui and Jiangxi provinces into the heavily pneumonia-stricken province of Hubei. His destination is Wuhan's East-West Lake District Health Bureau, just a dozen kilometers from Hankou Railway Station, the worst-hit area for pneumonia transmission.
在车上，他想了很久，最后还是决定跟老婆坦白。
In the car, he thought for a long time, finally decided to confess with his wife.
老婆只说了一句话，把自己保护好。
Wife just said a sentence, to protect themselves.
车往湖北开王慎才每天都会跑高速，对高速很熟悉，但这次一上去，就感觉跟平时不太一样。
Cars to Hubei Kaiwang Shen will run high speed every day, very familiar with high-speed, but this time up, feel not the same as usual.
「路上的车比较少，小车多一点，货车只有一两辆，极少，比平时少很多。
"There are fewer cars on the road, a little more cars, one or two wagons, very few, much less than usual.
」平时送快递，他也是傍晚六七点左右上高速，「大货车少了很多很多。
"Express delivery, he is also around 6 or 7 p.m. on the high speed," a lot of big trucks are missing.
」车少，路况不错，老王心里估算了一下，大概八个小时能到武汉。
"There were fewer cars and the road was in good condition, so Lao Wang thought he could get to Wuhan in about eight hours.
他们在宣城的一个服务区加了点油，吃了泡面。
They added a little oil to a service area in Xuancheng and ate noodles.
在那里，王慎才第一次看到了戴口罩的人，「加油的员工都戴着口罩，店里卖东西的人，全都戴口罩。
It was there that Wang Shen first saw a man wearing a mask. "The employees were wearing masks, and all the people in the shop were wearing masks.
」他本来习惯在等加油时，跟工作人员随便聊两句，但这次所有人都戴着口罩，除了加油必要的几句交流，「都特别安静。
"He was used to talking to the staff while waiting for the gas, but this time all of them were wearing masks and, except for a few necessary conversations to refuel," were particularly quiet.
」他也只好加完油，赶紧离开。
"So he finished the oil and left quickly.
第二天凌晨2点多，王慎才看到了湖北的省界。
The next morning at 2: 00 a.m., Wang Shen saw Hubei province boundaries.
他赶紧叫醒了身边的同伴，提醒对方戴起口罩。
He quickly wakes up his companion to remind him to wear a mask.
说来也奇怪，49岁的王慎才，跑物流天南海北走了不少地方，却从来没到过湖北，这里甚至还是他的祖籍所在。
Strange to say, 49-year-old Wang Shengcai, running logistics Tiannanbei walked many places, but has never been to Hubei, here is even his ancestral home.
十几岁的时候，湖北老家有族人来到安徽宁国，找到老王的爷爷、父亲一支，补进来族谱当中，那时候他才知道，自己老家竟然是湖北的。
As a teenager, some people from Hubei Province came to Ningguo, Anhui Province, and found an old Wang's grandfather, a father, to fill in the genealogy, then he knew that his hometown was Hubei.
父亲告诉他，早年湖北人下江南，父亲就跟着长辈们，挑担子走路，来到宁国。
His father told him that in his early years, Hubei people went down to Jiangnan.
他的父亲已经八十多岁了，只告诉他老家在湖北的大悟县。
His father, already in his eighties, told him that his hometown was in Dawu County, Hubei Province.
「大悟属于哪个市？」王慎才想了半天，也没想起来。
"Big Enlightenment belongs to which city?" Wang Shen just thought for a long time, also did not remember.
其实，王慎才的大货车正在全速前往湖北时，他的老家，湖北省孝感市大悟县新型冠状病毒肺炎防控指挥部就发出公告，表示防控物资采购十分困难，公开接受爱心捐赠，所需物资包括医用口罩、防护服、鞋套、医用乳胶手套、医用隔离服、医用消毒液等等。
In fact, Wang Shengcai's truck was heading to Hubei at full speed when his hometown, the new coronavirus pneumonia control command in Dawu county, Hubei Province, issued a notice saying that the procurement of prevention and control materials, including medical masks, suits, shoes, medical latex gloves, medical isolation clothing, medical disinfectant, and so on.
凌晨4点，大货车下高速，在出口处，被交警拦了下来。
At 4 a.m., the van got off the highway and was stopped at the exit by the traffic police.
看着远处招手示意靠边，用防护服全副武装的交警，驾驶室里的两个人不约而同地屏住了呼吸。
Watching the distance beckon to the side, armed with protective clothing of the traffic police, two people in the cab held their breath.
「也不是害怕，就是觉得，终于到了那个疫情很严重的地方。
"It's not fear, it's just that, at last, it's where the epidemic is most serious.
」下车前，副驾驶冷不丁丢出一句话：「咱们一回宁国，会不会马上被隔离？」穿行在深夜的武汉城武汉下着不小的雨水，很冷。
Before getting off the bus, the copilot dropped a word: "Shall we be isolated in Ningguo?" The rain was not small and cold as it traversed Wuhan, Wuhan, late at night.
高速下口静得吓人，四下无人无车，远处的警示灯一闪一闪，才让人略微觉察出笼罩在这座城市上空的紧张与不安。
The breathtaking hush of high-speed silence, with no one in sight, and the distant warning lights twinkled, gave a glimpse of the tension and uneasiness that hung over the city.
一个戴着口罩和帽子、穿着像雨衣一样的黄色防护服的交警过来询问，得知是送口罩的，很快做了登记，开出一张特别通行证，便放行了。
A traffic policeman in a mask and hat, wearing a yellow raincoat-like suit, came to ask and was told that the mask had been given. He quickly registered, issued a special pass and released it.
临走时，对方跟他们说了句「辛苦了」，王慎才第一次对交警有了好感。
Before leaving, the other side and they said a "hard", Wang Shen only the first time to the traffic police had a good impression.
这辆9米6的大货车径直开进了武汉的主城区，这或许是这辆车唯一一次有幸能在大城市的主干道上行驶了。
The 9. 6-meter van made its way straight into Wuhan's main city, perhaps the only time it had been lucky enough to drive on a major thoroughfare in a big city.
他把车速放慢下来，开得特别小心，偶尔压到井盖，发出的响声，都会让他心头一震。
He slowed down and drove with great care, occasionally hitting the well cover and making noises that made him tremble.
他看了眼车窗，确认是紧闭的，才稍稍安心一些。
He looked through the window to make sure it was closed, and felt a little more at ease.
但他们很快在空荡荡的街头迷路了。
But they soon lost their way in the empty streets.
在这意料之外多出来的一个多小时中，王慎才和同伴「不紧张是不可能的」，他们俩都在默默地关注着，这座已经刷爆全国的城市。
For more than an unexpected hour, Wang Shen-cai and his companion, "It's impossible not to be nervous," were both quietly watching, the city that had swept through the country.
车子非常少，路上没有什么人，超市倒是开着的，他们看到几个环卫工人，在冒雨扫地，都戴着口罩。
There were very few cars, there were no people on the road, the supermarket was open, they saw a few sanitation workers, sweeping the floor in the rain, wearing masks.
这时，有一块儿开货车的同事打通了他的电话，「别人都在往外跑，你们怎么还往里去？」王慎才告诉他，车已经到武汉了，「没有外面感觉的那么严重啊，都很寻常。
At this point, a colleague driving a lorry called him on the phone. "Everybody else is running out, why are you going in?" Wang Shen told him that the bus had arrived in Wuhan.
」早上四点多，货车到达收货地点。
"The lorry arrived at the receiving end at four in the morning.
武汉市应急指挥中心办公室的一个负责人下来迎接。
Wuhan City Emergency Command Center Office of a person in charge to meet.
看着一群戴着口罩的人涌上来，王慎才和同事才突然心生紧张，不自觉地退了一步，「连保安都戴着严严实实的口罩。
Watching a group of people wearing masks surged up, Wang Shen-cai and his colleagues suddenly felt nervous and stepped back unconsciously.
」那个四十多岁、戴眼镜的负责人一面跟他们说着辛苦了，一面大声招呼一群同事，将货车上的口罩飞快地卸下来。
"The 40-something, bespectacled supervisor, while working hard with them, shouted to a group of colleagues and quickly unloaded the mask from his truck.
王慎才这个时候才知道，自己拉的口罩是由菜鸟网络组建的「武汉救援物资绿色通道」第一单发往武汉的物资。
Wang Shen-only then knew that his own mask was formed by the rookie network "Wuhan Rescue Materials Green Channel" the first single issue of materials to Wuhan.
1月25日，菜鸟联合海内外物流企业发布公告，正式开通国内及全球绿色通道，免费从海内外各地为武汉地区运输社会捐赠的救援物资。
On January 25, the inexperienced logistics enterprises at home and abroad issued an announcement, officially opening domestic and global green channels, free of charge from home and abroad to transport relief materials donated by the community to Wuhan.
各捐赠机构可以拨打菜鸟武汉物资捐赠免费运输热线400-900-5656联系。
Donor agencies can call Wuhan Donation of Noodle Bird free transport hotline 400-900-5656.
这条绿色通道在公布后的短短16个小时，截至1月26日上午10时，就接到全球数百家企业、机构、团体的电话接洽捐赠需求，涉及的救援物资包括口罩、检测试剂盒、护目镜、防护服、乳胶手套、消毒液双氧水、照明设备等。
Within 16 hours of its launch, the Green Channel had received calls from hundreds of businesses, institutions and organizations around the world as of 10 a.m. on Jan. 26 to solicit donations of respirators, test kits, goggles, protective clothing, latex gloves, disinfectant hydrogen peroxide, lighting and so on.
捐赠不仅来自国内，海外捐赠方包括美国、英国、日本、韩国、泰国、菲律宾、迪拜的企业捐赠、民众众筹捐赠、留学生集资捐赠等。
Overseas donors include corporate donations from the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, the Philippines and Dubai, popular fundraising, and donations from foreign students.
王慎才抽空给老婆发了一个信息，告诉她，「没事，好得很，安全得很，马上就能返程。
Wang Shen took the time to send a message to his wife, saying, "It's all right. It's good. It's safe.
」不受欢迎的人十万个口罩顺利送达武汉那一刻，王慎才的任务便宣告完成，但对他而言，接下来将面临许多可以预想到的局面。
"Wang Shen-cai's mission was completed when 100,000 masks were successfully delivered to Wuhan, but for him, there will be many predictable scenarios ahead.
当他还在回程途中时，已经接到五六个亲戚朋友的电话，「询问武汉的情况，是不是电视上说的那么严重，我说没什么事，没什么大不了的。
"Asked if the situation in Wuhan was as serious as it was on TV, I said it was nothing serious, nothing serious," he said.
」王慎才理解他们的不安。
"Wang Shen understood their uneasiness.
一个正在从武汉回来的货车司机，在眼下这个草木皆兵的时刻，不可能不成为重点关注的对象。
A lorry driver returning from Wuhan is unlikely not to be the main focus of attention at this time.
村里已经有人发信息过来，让他不要回家了，等疫情控制好了再回去，都是一个村里的左邻右舍。
Someone in the village has sent a message to him not to go home, and when the outbreak is under control and then back, it is a village neighbourhood.
「我说，你们没到那边去看，去过之后就会知道，没那么严重，就是你们怕死。
"I said, you didn't go over there, you know after you've been there, it's not that serious, you're afraid of death.
」不过，王慎才也说，接下去一段时间，估计要在家里自我隔离了。
However, Wang Shengcai also said that for some time to come, it was estimated that he would have to isolate himself at home.
「去武汉送货，那是一方有难、八方支援。
"To Wuhan delivery, that is a difficult, eight-way support.
回家了，得替家乡人考虑。
Home. We have to think about it for the family.
」人到中年，他的确有一大家子要顾。
"In middle age he did have a large family to look after.
他有两个女儿，大女儿26岁，成了家，有个小孩子，小女儿十几岁，还有老父母健在。
He had two daughters, a 26-year-old daughter, a family, a young child, a teenage daughter and old parents.
今年的年夜饭一家老小，跟兄弟四个一块儿吃，四代人坐了满满两桌，一大锅辣味羊肉，热热闹闹。
This year's New Year's Eve dinner, with four brothers eat together, four generations of people sat full of two tables, a pot of hot mutton, hot.
「不用乡亲们提醒，我自己都不可能出门。
"I can't go out myself without my folks reminding me.
」「希望大家都能跨过这个坎，我呢，回家自我隔离，我有这个自觉，一定不给大家添麻烦。
"" I hope everyone will be able to cross this barrier, and I, too, will go home and isolate myself.
」王慎才说。
"said Wang Shen-cai.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他拉着10万只口罩，开往已经封城的武汉。
He pulled 100,000 masks and headed for Wuhan, which has been closed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他拉着10万只口罩，开往已经封城的武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一辆9米6的大货车往武汉开去。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A 9 m. 6 van drove to Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
