上千名被感染的武汉医护，如何扛过最艰难的一个月。
Thousands of infected Wuhan medical workers, how to carry through the most difficult month.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
对病毒的未知、医疗物资缺乏，又因高强度的工作压力影响到免疫力，导致医护感染达到高峰。
Unknown viruses, lack of medical supplies, and high levels of stress affect immunity, leading to a peak in health care infections.
随着医护人员防护意识、对病毒认识的增强，相关防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少文 | 《财经》特派武汉记者 言清 《财经》记者辛颖 实习记者 朱贺编辑 | 王小2020年2月10日，康复医生刘书连续两次咽拭子检测呈阴性，新冠肺炎治愈，可以出院了。
As health care workers become more aware of the virus and protective measures are in place, fewer and fewer health-care workers should be infected at a later stage. Wuhan correspondent Singhe Wang, a journalist with Caijing, has tested negative for two consecutive pharyngeal swabs on February 10, 2020.
步行回家近30分钟，刘书仍觉呼吸困难，不敢走太快。
After walking home for nearly 30 minutes, Liu Shu still found it difficult to breathe and dared not walk too fast.
街边店铺紧闭着，零星烟酒店、水果店开着，路口有警察，放眼望去无一行人。
Street shops closed, sporadic cigarette hotels, fruit shops open, the intersection of the police, looking at no one line.
刘书走走停停，"这一路静的可怕，好像劫后余生”。
Liu Shu stopped and stopped. & quot; It was a quiet, gruesome ride that seemed to last forever.
整个春节刘书都是在医院度过。
Liu Shu spent the whole Spring Festival in the hospital.
在隔离治疗19天中，当第一次出现呼吸困难，刘书也萌生过与“死亡”有关的想法，但更多的时候是，“我还年轻，能扛过去”。
During the 19 days of isolation, Liu also had thoughts about death when he first had difficulty breathing, but more often than not, "I am young and can carry the past."
刘书扛过来了，也有医生没有捱过。
Liu Shu came over, and some of the doctors did not survive.
2月7日，武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮离世，他曾在新冠肺炎出现早期向身边人提示风险，自己却终未幸免。
Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, died on Feb. 7 after he warned people of the risks in the early days of pneumonia.
2月11日下午，钟南山院士分析，疫情拐点还无法预测，但峰值应该在2月中下旬出现， “人传人的问题，在武汉仍然没能解决”。
Feb. 11 afternoon, academician Zhong Nan Shan analysis, the inflection point is not yet predictable, but the peak should appear in the middle and second half of February, "the problem of human-to-human transmission remains unresolved in Wuhan."
如何避免院内感染，一直是医学界最头疼的问题，更遑论身处这场大疫，病人如潮、防护缺失，在湖北的医护人员每天面临的都是生死之搏。
Avoiding nosocomial infections has long been the biggest headache in the medical community, not to mention the fact that in the midst of a pandemic, where patients suffer from flooding and lack of protection, hospital staff in Hubei face daily life-and-death battles.
自疫情出现后，医护感染也几乎每天都在发生。
Health care infections have been occurring almost daily since the outbreak.
武汉大学中南医院（下称“中南医院”）重症医学科主任彭志勇的研究样本中，1月1日到1月28日，该院138名患者确诊，有40位是医务工作者。
From January 1 to January 28, a sample of 138 patients at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital (hereinafter referred to as "Zhongnan Hospital"), the director of severe medicine, Pang Zhiyong, identified 40 medical workers.
其中，受感染最多的不是来自重症监护室，而是自普通科室的医护人员，共31人占比77.5%。
Of these, the most affected were not from intensive care units, but from the general service, with a total of 31 patients (77.5 per cent).
2月初，一张网传图表显示，截止1月底，武汉市医务人员感染新冠病毒确诊病例和疑似病例数已逾1000人。
By the end of January, more than 1,000 medical staff in Wuhan had been diagnosed and suspected to have contracted the new crown virus, according to an online chart.
该统计只包括了确诊医护人员在15例以上的医院。
The statistics include only hospitals with more than 15 confirmed medical personnel.
从这张图表中可见，武汉协和医院是重灾区，确诊人数过百人。
As can be seen from this chart, Wuhan Concorde Hospital is a serious disaster area, confirmed more than 100 people.
一位武汉协和医院的医生向《财经》记者证实了图片中有关协和医院的数据属实。
A doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital confirmed to Caijing that the pictures of Concorde Hospital were true.
网传医务人员发病情况图片“我们科室一共有10名医生，约20名护士（护士是流动作业的，具体人数并不固定），截至1月29日，仅我们科室就出现疑似感染医护人员7人。
"Our department has 10 doctors and about 20 nurses (nurses are mobile, the number is not fixed), as of January 29, there are only seven suspected infected medical personnel in our department.
截至1月27日，全院疑似感染医护人员61名。
As at 27 January, 61 medical staff were suspected to be infected.
”武汉市一家定点收治新冠肺炎患者的三甲医院的医生告诉《财经》记者。
A doctor at a hospital in Wuhan designated to treat patients with pneumonia in the New Crown told Caijing.
据《中国新闻周刊》2月8日报道，武汉市精神卫生中心出现院内感染，至少有30名医务人员确诊感染。
At least 30 medical workers have confirmed the infection at the Wuhan Mental Health Center, a hospital spokesman said.
“非典的时候，也没有这么多的医护人员被感染。
"There were not so many people infected when we had SARS.
”彭志勇对《财经》记者说。
"Pang Zhiyong told Caijing.
2003年，非典肆虐。
In 2003, SARS raged.
自2003年4月5日接诊第一名非典患者后，不到20天，北大人民医院共有93名医护人员感染。
Less than 20 days after receiving the first SARS patient on April 5, 2003, a total of 93 medical staff were infected.
4月23日，整座医院被隔离，以遏制可能出现的传染大暴发。
On 23 April, the entire hospital was quarantined to contain a possible major outbreak of infection.
这是该院建院80余年第一次被隔离。
It was the first isolation in more than 80 years.
彭志勇观察认为，与SARS病毒相比，此次新冠病毒的传染性更强。
Peng Zhiyong observed that compared with the SARS virus, the new crown virus is more infectious.
早期医护被感染是因为不知道人传人，没防护，当知道人传人后，已有大量病人涌进医院，防护不够，医护面临的感染风险丝毫未减。
Early care has been infected because there is no known human-to-human transmission, no protection. When it is known that human-to-human transmission, a large number of patients have flooded the hospital with inadequate protection, leaving the risk of infection undiminished.
“撑了一个月，你们不容易。
"It wasn't easy for you to do that for a month.
”上海市第一人民医院副院长郑军华向《财经》记者回忆，带队进驻金银潭医院后，他先是对当地医护说了这句话。
Zhengjunhua, vice-president of Shanghai's First People's Hospital, told Caijing that he first spoke to local doctors after leading the team to the gold and silver pool hospital.
1月27日，郑军华带领第一批上海援鄂医疗队到达武汉。
On January 27, Zheng Junhua led the first group of medical teams to Hubei to Wuhan.
第一批医护感染，来得猝不及防研究者还没有看清新冠病毒的真面目，它就已在人间散开。
The first health care infections, so unexpected researchers have not seen the true face of the new crown virus, it has spread across the world.
1月10日前后，一名患者因腹部不适，被中南医院收治。
Around 10 January, a patient was admitted to the South-Central Hospital because of abdominal discomfort.
此时，新冠病毒人传人的特点还未被官方确认。
At this point, the new crown virus human-to-human characteristics have not been officially confirmed.
在彭志勇的研究样本中，最早引发医护感染的正是这名腹病患者，他感染了相关的10余名医护人员，其中一名医生又将病毒传染给了家人。
In Peng Zhiyong's study, it was the abdominal patient who first triggered the infection, infecting more than a dozen health-care workers, one of whom passed the virus on to his family.
至少在早期，中南医院已加强重点科室防护。
At least in the early period, the hospital has strengthened key departments of protection.
“疫情发展的风声很紧，院内已经预警”，彭志勇说，在可能遇到感染者的门诊、急诊和呼吸科都加强防控，让医生戴口罩。
"The spread of the epidemic is very tight, the hospital has been warned," said Pang Zhiyong, in outpatient, emergency and respiratory departments at risk of infection to strengthen prevention and control, let doctors wear masks.
彼时，刘书所在的黄冈市蕲春县刘河镇中心卫生院，还没有拉响警报。
At that time, the Liu Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County Central Health Center in Huanggang City did not sound the alarm.
1月14日，刘河镇中心卫生院康复科接诊了一位腰痛患者，不到50岁的女性，康复科能提供针灸、牵引等治疗。
On January 14, the rehabilitation department of Liu He Town Central Health Center received a patient with low back pain. She was under the age of 50.
“那时谈不上防护，没有特别通知疫情，压根没提防，康复科医生平时也很少戴口罩。
"There was no protection, no special notification of the outbreak, no precaution at all, and the convalescent doctors rarely wore masks at all.
”刘书介绍，5天后，这位腰疼患者说疼痛缓解，但有点感冒、低烧，医生给她开了感冒、咳嗽和退烧药后，患者在第6天如期出院。
"Liu said five days later, the patient said the pain was alleviated, but she had a cold and a low fever.
当患者在1月24日再度返回时，CT检查已“双肺大面积感染”。
When the patient returned on January 24, the CT scan showed "massive bilateral lung infection."
此时，刘书和卫生院的多名同事已出现发热、咳嗽症状，肺部CT检查后，已有4名医护人员先被确诊隔离。
At this time, Liu Shu and many colleagues of the hospital have had fever, cough symptoms, lung CT examination, has been diagnosed four medical personnel were first isolated.
1月24日下午，蕲春县医院派人到卫生院为他们做咽拭子检测。
On the afternoon of 24 January, Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County Hospital sent a person to the health centre to conduct a swabbing test on them.
这一天，也是刘书30岁的生日。
This day is also Liu Shu's 30th birthday.
在1月20日之前，国家卫健委尚未确认“人传人”特性时，医院对医护感染讳莫如深。
Before Jan. 20, the National Fitness Commission has yet to confirm the "person-to-person" character of the hospital to care about medical infection secret.
1月16日，星期四，是武汉市中心医院后湖院区过年前的最后一次周例会，田璐悄悄向医院知情人求证医生感染的消息，对方没说话，只是点了点头。
January 16, the central hospital in Wuhan after the last weekly meeting before the New Year, Tian Lu quietly asked the hospital insider for evidence of the infection, the other side did not speak, just nodded.
领导在那天的会议上尤其强调了，新冠肺炎可防可治可控。
The leader especially emphasized at that day's meeting that the new crown pneumonia could be prevented and controlled.
”没有人预想到接下来的进展。
No one anticipated the next steps.
1月20日下午，针对“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情”有关防控情况，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山在答记者问时，证实了新冠病毒可“人传人”。
On the afternoon of January 20, Zhong Nan-shan, leader of the high-level group of experts of the National Health Commission, confirmed that the new coronavirus could be passed from person to person.
钟南山证实武汉协和医院发生院内感染。
Zhong Nan Shan confirmed that hospital infection occurred in Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
该院神经外科收治的一名脑垂体瘤患者后被确诊感染，同时有14名医务工作者被感染，其中还有妇科，心脏外科和心脏病科的4名护士。
A patient with a pituitary tumor admitted to the hospital's neurosurgery unit was diagnosed with infection, while 14 medical workers were infected, including four nurses from the gynecology, cardiology and cardiology departments.
此次疫情中，“在普通科室遇见感染者概率低，反而警惕性没那么高，医护没有戴口罩”。
In this outbreak, "in the general department encountered a low probability of infection, on the contrary, vigilance is not so high, no medical care wearing masks."
彭志勇指出，“所有科室都有防护当然是最好，但早期的情况是，还没有把这个疾病定位在那么高的级别。
"All departments have protection, of course, is best," says Peng. "But the early days did not place the disease at that high level.
”1月20日，国务院将新冠肺炎纳入法定传染病，乙类病症，甲类管理。
On January 20, the State Council added pneumonia to the statutory list of infectious diseases, group B, and category A.
两天后，湖北省启动突发公共卫生事件二级应急响应机制；三天后，武汉封城。
Two days later, the province of Hubei initiated a secondary emergency response mechanism for public health emergencies; three days later, Wuhan closed the city.
此时，医护感染已有上升趋势。
Healthcare infections are now on the rise.
刘书在做完咽拭子检测后整整一天没有跟家里沟通，1月26日，打电话给父亲，“我应该是感染了，但是症状很轻，会治好的”。
Liu did not communicate with his family all day long after swabbing tests. On January 26, he called his father and said, "I should be infected, but the symptoms are mild and will heal."
武汉市金银潭医院副院长黄朝林对《财经》记者分析，早期的医护人员感染，与对新冠病毒的认识有关，“早期传染病专科的医护人员，防护措施可能做得比较好，感染人数少。
Huang Chaolin, vice-president of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, told Caijing that early medical and nursing infections were related to the understanding of the new crown virus. "Health care professionals specializing in early infectious diseases may have done better with fewer infections.
在其他非传染病科室，有些病人并非因为发热来就诊，而是患有其他的病症，但同时也是新冠肺炎患者，由于早期医护人员对病毒认识不够，可能会导致部分感染”。
In other NCD units, some patients are suffering not from fever, but from other conditions, but also from Newcastle Pneumonia, which may cause partial infection due to insufficient awareness of the virus among early medical staff.
1月29日，《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）发表对425例首批确诊为新冠肺炎的患者调查。
On January 29, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) published a survey of 425 patients diagnosed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
数据显示，在1月1日之前发病的确诊病例中，没有医护；但是在1月1日—11日之间，确诊患者中医护人员比例达到了3%；在1月12日之后，这个比例增加到7%，1月1日至22日有15名医务人员感染。
The data show that there was no medical care for the confirmed cases before 1 January; however, between 1 and 11 January, 3 per cent of the patients were diagnosed; after 12 January, the proportion rose to 7 per cent, and from 1 to 22 January, 15 medical personnel were infected.
“我们医院几个科室的大主任相继病倒，派来分管中心医院后湖院区的院长也病倒了。
"The directors of several departments of our hospital fell ill one after the other, and the dean of the backlake courtyard area assigned to the central hospital also fell ill.
”田璐意识到，情况比预想的要严重。
Tian Lu realized that the situation was more serious than expected.
多家医院对外喊话：我们缺防护物资“各科室排查未戴口罩人员，无口罩科室速来领取。
A number of hospitals shouted: We lack protective materials "departments to check the personnel wearing no masks, no mask department to pick up quickly.
”2月9日中午，刘河镇卫生院负责人在微信群再次通知。
"February 9 noon, Liu He Town Health Center in the micro-group to notify again.
卫生院的口罩很紧张，领导反复强调做好防护，这是刘书确诊隔离后，获知医院情况的唯一途径，他并不知道其他感染医生的情况，没人想说。
The hospital face mask is very tense, the leadership repeatedly stressed to do well, this is the only way to learn Liu Shuo isolation, he did not know about other infected doctors, no one wants to say.
全力筹备防护物资，成为保卫医护人员的首要战役。
Make every effort to prepare protective materials and become the first battle to protect medical personnel.
早在除夕前夜，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部以通告形式，公布的接受捐赠物资，有医用设备、防护设备、耗材（其中口罩需求量较大）等。
As early as New Year's Eve, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command announced the receipt of donated materials in the form of medical equipment, protective equipment, consumables (one of which more demand for masks).
同日，武汉同济医院、武昌医院等定点收治发热病人的医院，也陆续发布社会捐赠公告，急求护目镜、N95口罩、防护服等。
On the same day, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuchang Hospital and other designated hospitals to treat febrile patients, also issued social donation announcements, urgently seeking goggles, N95 masks, protective clothing, etc.
那时，还没有哪个机构预测到，在未来一段时间全球几乎都缺口罩了。
At the time, no institution had predicted that the global gap would be closed for some time to come.
N95口罩及防护服，属于一线医护人员的基本防护。
N95 masks and protective clothing are the primary protective measures for frontline medical staff.
《财经》记者获得一份武汉1月31日的内部专报指出，医疗防护物资供需缺口之大：武汉市日均N95口罩需求量6万个左右，但获得的日均调拨不到3万个，缺口一半多，医用防护服更甚，日均需求3万套左右，调拨供给仅几千套。
According to an internal Wuhan January 31 special report, the gap between supply and demand for medical protection materials is huge: Wuhan City needs an average of 60,000 N95 masks a day, but receives less than 30,000 a day, more than half of the shortfall, more medical protective clothing, an average daily demand of about 30,000 sets, allocation of supplies only a few thousand sets.
这意味着，当时防护物资供应已如崩断的弦，防护不足的医护人员被置于高浓度的病毒环境中。
This meant that the supply of protective materials had broken down and underprotected health-care workers were placed in a highly concentrated viral environment.
“我们向院方领导反映防护服时效性的问题，被告知没有商量的余地。
"We asked the hospital leadership about the timeliness of the suit and were told there was no room for consultation.
社会上有很多帖子提到武汉有不少病人高度疑似（新冠病毒感染）但无法就医的问题，从医护人员的角度来说，我们真的尽力了，直到今天。
There are many posts in Wuhan mentioned that a lot of patients are highly suspected (new crown virus infection) but no access to medical care, from the medical point of view, we really tried to do, until today.
”上述武汉一家定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者。
The doctor at the Wuhan designated hospital told Caijing.
1月23日，武汉协和医院率先向外求援，急缺护目镜、N95口罩、防护服等物资。
On January 23, Wuhan Concorde Hospital, the first outside assistance, urgently needed goggles, N95 mask, protective clothing and other materials.
该医院门诊部一位工作人员形容，当日转运新冠肺炎病人至第二批定点医院时，只临时申请到40套防护服。
A staff member of the hospital clinic described that only 40 suits had been requested on an ad hoc basis by the time the patients were transferred to the second batch of designated hospitals.
科室负责人反复提醒，防护物资已经没有了，要特别申请。
Section heads repeatedly reminded that no protective materials, to be applied for.
随后，两日前临时征用为第二批新冠肺炎的定点医院纷纷发布募捐公告：武汉七医院、九医院等。
Subsequently, two days ago, temporary requisition for the second batch of new crown pneumonia Ding hospitals have issued fundraising announcements: Wuhan seven hospitals, nine hospitals, and so on.
1月23日晚23点35分，一位知情人士向《财经》记者透露，她正在连夜找人帮忙制作武汉五医院募捐物资的图片。
At 23: 35 pm on January 23, a person familiar with the matter told Caijing that she was asking someone overnight to help make pictures of the five Wuhan hospitals soliciting donations.
武汉市中心医院的可用物资必须按天规划。
The available materials of Wuhan Central Hospital must be planned by day.
“负责接收物资的同事反馈，因李文亮医生在本院去世，有捐赠者指明不给中心医院捐物资。
"Colleagues responsible for receiving supplies feedback, because Dr. Lee Wenliang died in the hospital, a donor indicated that no donations to the central hospital.
我们现在是还能保证一线科室用量，一人一天一个N95口罩，但今天通知，接下来急诊可能就没有N95用了，优先保障隔离病房。
We are still able to guarantee the use of front-line departments, a one-person-a-day N95 mask, but today, the emergency may not be the next use of N95, the priority to safeguard the isolation ward.
”田璐的语气很平静，这是她在过去的一个月中慢慢学会的。
Tian Lu's tone was calm, and she had learned it over the past month.
2月10日、11日接连两天，武汉市中心医院在官方网站发布《急需抗击新冠肺炎防控设备》，现急需社会各界依法合规爱心捐赠各型号无创、有创呼吸机，以及高流量呼吸治疗仪。
On February 10 and 11, Wuhan Central Hospital published "Urgent Need to Combat New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Equipment" on its official website. There is an urgent need for all sectors of society to donate non-invasive, invasive breathing machines and high-flow breathing apparatus in accordance with the law.
“年前，除了储备、发放、捐赠，还有很多企业加班加点供货，医院紧急采购。
"Five years ago, in addition to reserves, distribution, donations, there are many enterprises working overtime, hospitals emergency procurement.
但现在没有采购渠道，捐赠和发放的量还很有限。
However, there are no procurement channels and the amounts donated and disbursed are still limited.
”田璐对《财经》记者说。
"Tian Lu told Caijing.
上述武汉内部专报中还提到，物资缺口，除本地医院外，还要保障4000多名外地支援队伍，物资远远不足。
Wuhan internal special report also mentioned that the material gap, in addition to local hospitals, but also to ensure that more than 4,000 field support teams, the material resources are far from enough.
驰援医生的数量还在增加。
The number of chiropractors is increasing.
2月4日，国家卫健委介绍医护人员总的驰援力量已经达到1.1万多人，其中有3000多名是重症专业的医生和护士。
On February 4, the National Fitness and Health Commission said more than 11,000 medical personnel had been deployed as medical personnel, including more than 3,000 doctors and nurses specializing in severe diseases.
驰援医院都自觉地自带物资前来。
Mercedes-aid hospitals have consciously brought their own supplies to come.
上海一家医疗支援队出发时随身自带10吨物资，医院还在后方继续筹备补给。
A Shanghai medical support team left with 10 tons of supplies with it, and the hospital continued to prepare supplies from the rear.
“防护物资补充后，医护人员感染的情况是会有改善的”。
"There will be an improvement in the infection rate of health care workers after the restocking of protective equipment," he said.
彭志勇介绍，中南医院之前派医生支援的武汉七医院，由于他们物资不够，早期防护不到位，医生感染的概率是有上升。
Mr. Pang said the seven Wuhan hospitals, which are supported by doctors from the South China Hospital, had an increased risk of infection because they lacked supplies and early protection.
被感染的医护人员，也是一床难求2月2日上午11点左右，武汉大学中南医院发热门诊挂号处，上午的55个号已经挂完，大多数患者仍不死心，十几人的队伍延伸至门外。
About 11: 00 a.m. on February 2, the fever clinic of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital registered office, the 55 in the morning has been hung up, most patients are still reluctant to give up, a dozen people extended to the door.
患者越来越多，而感染医护人员却减员了。
The number of patients has increased, while the number of infected health workers has decreased.
人手太紧张，武汉不少医院不得已出方案：医务人员只要还没有确诊，都坚持在岗位。
Too tight hands, Wuhan, many hospitals had to out of the programme: as long as the medical staff have not been diagnosed, adhere to the post.
2月3日早上7点45分，武汉七医院发热门诊内，身穿防护服的王木向工作人员询问，这里是做核酸检测的地方吗，得到肯定回答后，她才放心地等在门口。
At 7: 45 a.m. on February 3, Wuhan Seven Hospital fever clinic, Wangmu wearing protective clothing asked the staff, this is the place to do nucleic acid testing, received a positive answer, she was relieved to wait at the door.
因刚上完一个夜班，她不住地用手支撑，很难直起腰。
As she had just finished a night shift, she could hardly straighten up with her hands.
最终，斜靠在墙边，勉强找到一处支撑点。
Eventually, leaning against the wall, she managed to find a point of support.
王木是该院肝病科的医生，可自1月23日，武汉七医院成为发热病人定点医院，和其他科室同事一样，她也转成发热门诊或隔离病区的工作人员。
Wang Mu is a doctor in the department of liver disease, but since January 23, Wuhan Seven Hospital has become a hospital for fever patients, like colleagues in other departments, she has also turned into a fever clinic or quarantined staff.
在新科室工作16天后，王木排上了做核酸检测。
After 16 days in the new department, Wang Mu-Pai was tested for nucleic acid.
2月2日，王木收到通知，院内医护人员开始陆续做核酸检查，但名额有限，“不是每个人都能排上，先做即先有”。
On February 2, Wang Mu received notification, hospital medical staff began to do nucleic acid screening, but a limited number of seats, "not everyone can be ranked, do it first.
此前，医院内已陆续安排出现症状的医护人员做CT检查，如果肺部有阴影，需再排队做核酸检测确诊。
Previously, the hospital has arranged for medical staff with symptoms CT examination, if there is a shadow in the lung, need to queue for a nucleic acid test confirmed.
在核酸检测标本取样室门外，王木拿到三张核酸检测单，一张是她自己的，另两张是同事的。
Outside the DNA sample room, Wang got three nucleic acid test sheets, one for herself and two for her co-workers.
今天来做核酸确诊，看看是不是新冠肺炎。
Today, come to the diagnosis of nucleic acid, to see if the new crown pneumonia.
如果是，立即入院隔离，如果不是，回家自己隔离。
If so, immediately hospitalize and, if not, go home and isolate themselves.
“这几天，有点发烧，嘴里有痰”，2月2日的CT片中，王木的肺部已出现阴影。
"I've had a fever and sputum in my mouth these days," Wang's lungs have been shaded in a CT scan on February 2.
一床难求，对感染的医护人员也一样。
One bed is hard to find, and the same is true for infected paramedics.
武汉同济医院医护人员如是疑似病例，就自己回家隔离，医院提供药品，家人打电话预约后去医院领药。
Wuhan Tongji Hospital medical staff such as suspected cases, on their own home isolation, the hospital provides medicines, family members call the appointment to pick up medicine.
“病人在找病床，医生生病了也没床位，也得等”。
"The patient is looking for a bed, and the doctor is ill and has no bed, and so on."
2月11日上午，田璐被抽调往发热门诊的朋友收到确诊感染通知，“他申请床位，但没有。
On the morning of February 11, Tian Lu is sent to the fever clinic to receive a confirmed infection notice, "He applied for a bed, but did not.
我知道，如果是轻症，他不会申请住院的”。
I knew that if it was a minor illness, he would not apply for hospitalization.
田璐对《财经》记者说。
Tian Lu told Caijing.
刘书在1月27日确诊后被送往蕲春县人民医院治疗，该院新楼床位已满，启用了许久不用的旧楼。
On 27 January, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital was sent to Agkistrodon court for treatment. The new building is full and the old building has been in use for a long time.
但还是人满为患。
But there is still overcrowding.
两天后，刘书又被二次转到空置许久的铁路分院，医护人员和床铺都是从各医院临时抽调来的，“吃饭都是饱一餐饿一顿的”。
Two days later, Liu was transferred to the long-vacant branch of the railway, where staff and beds were temporarily drawn from hospitals to "eat a full meal."
医院还在想办法，为了先隔离出现症状的医护人员，2月2日，武汉七医院临时开辟了一个病区，专门收治医护人员。
The hospital is still trying to isolate medical staff with symptoms. On February 2, Wuhan Seven Hospital temporarily opened a sick area for medical staff.
穿过武汉七医院发热门诊后的室外长廊，可见一桩墙面斑驳的小楼，这是多位院内医护人员口中的“老住院楼”。
After passing through the outdoor corridor after the fever clinic of Wuhan Seven Hospital, we can see a small building with mottled walls, which is the "old hospital building" of many hospital medical staff.
从楼外绕至身后，穿过栽种高大林木的花园，有一处后门。
There was a back door leading from the outside to the back of the building through a garden planted with tall trees.
二楼以门相隔，贴着“隔离病区”。
The second floor is separated by a door, next to the "isolation area."
《财经》记者从多方信源了解到，这个临时开辟的隔离病区，有30张床位，收治武汉七医院和中南医院的医护人员。
The Caijing reporter learned from many sources that this temporary quarantined area, with 30 beds, admitted medical personnel from Wuhan Seven and Zhongnan hospitals.
该病房内一位护士告诉《财经》记者，30张床的病人一半来自武汉七医院，一半为中南医院。
A nurse in the ward told Caijing that half of the 30-bed patients came from Wuhan Seven Hospital and half from Zhongnan Hospital.
“没有床位，很多职工还挂在外面”，对于是否为新冠肺炎确诊患者，她说，护士长说了，全部是确诊患者。
"There are no beds and many workers hang outside," she said, referring to the head nurse who said it was all confirmed.
说着便迅速把门关上，门内传来，“30床病人呼叫”，“30床病人呼叫”。
"Then he quickly shut the door, and inside came," Thirty patients cry, "" Thirty patients call.
超乎医院掌控能力的硬仗病人涌来，隔离病房从急诊开始，一间间地扩，医院被划分成隔离病房和非隔离区两个世界。
Hard-fought patients surged out of the hospital's control, and the isolation ward began as an emergency, spreading from room to room, dividing the hospital into two worlds: the isolation ward and the non-isolation ward.
非隔离区在一天天后缩。
The exclusion zone is shrinking day by day.
在成为定点医院之前，武汉市中心医院的患者，已骤然增长。
Before becoming a designated hospital, patients at Wuhan Central Hospital had increased dramatically.
1月20日，武汉市中心医院还只是61家发热门诊医院之一，一面接待发热病人，一面派驻医生前去定点对象武汉汉口医院支援。
On January 20, Wuhan Central Hospital was only one of 61 out-patient hospitals with fever, while dispatching doctors to support Hankou Hospital in Wuhan.
“病房收治不下的患者就在医院过道中，确诊的就进入隔离病房，所有其他发热、疑似患者及医护人员都在隔离病房之外，随意穿行。
"Patients not admitted to the ward are in the hospital hallway, and those diagnosed are admitted to the isolation ward, where all other fever, suspected patients and medical staff are walking outside the isolation ward.
”田璐回忆。
Tian Lu recalled.
1月20号新冠病毒“人传人”的信息一公布，人们开始恐慌，更多的人要到医院里检查有没有问题。
As soon as the January 20 "human-to-human" message was released, people began to panic and more people went to the hospital to check for problems.
“那个时候，可能很多人在医院被感染了。
"At that time, maybe a lot of people were infected in the hospital.
”彭志勇说。
'he said.
《财经》记者获得一份来自武汉卫健委“医疗救治有关数据情况”的文件显示，1月22日，发热门诊量激增至约13000，是1月18日的近4倍。
The Caijing reporter obtained a document from the Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission on the "medical treatment related data situation," the number of fever clinics surged to about 13,000 on January 22, nearly four times as high as on January 18.
此后一直到1月28日，发热门诊量一直保持在万位以上。
From then until January 28, the number of fever clinics remained above 10, 000.
最高点为1月23日，也就是武汉封城的当日，发热门诊量为14486。
The highest point was January 23, the day Wuhan closed, with a heat clinic of 14,486.
1月27日，一份来自武汉开发区有关机构的文件，特别提到了因收治能力有限引发交叉感染的风险。
On January 27, a document from the Wuhan Development Zone said, among other things, the risk of cross-infection due to limited capacity.
这份文件显示，原汉南区人民医院的感染病区隔离病房床位10张，现已收治11人，已超员。
The document shows that the original Hannan District People's Hospital of the isolation ward of the 10 beds, has admitted 11 people, has been overstaffed.
经紧急履行相关程序后，在该院住院部综合楼11楼临时设置新冠肺炎病人观察病床20张，现已收治患者24人，已超员，该区域已不能满足收治需求。
As a result of the urgent implementation of the relevant procedures, 20 hospital beds for patients with pneumonia have been temporarily installed on the 11th floor of the hospital's inpatient complex, and 24 patients have been admitted to the hospital.
且同一栋楼8楼及以下原有临床科室，现共收治150余名患者，均存在新冠病毒院内交叉感染的风险。
And the same building 8 floor and below the original clinical department, now admitted more than 150 patients, there is a new crown virus hospital cross-infection risk.
《财经》记者了解到，在此次新冠肺炎疫情中，汉南区相比其他区，床位压力相对已算小。
Caijing reporter learned that in this new crown pneumonia, compared with other districts, the bed pressure has been relatively small.
华南海鲜市场所处的江汉区，曾在1月30日和2月1日，连续两日向武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组及副市长陈邂馨请示，措辞为“恳请协调解决病人收治事宜”。
South China Seafood Market in the Jianghan District, on January 30 and February 1, two consecutive days to Wuhan City New Crown Pneumonia Command Medical Treatment Group and Vice Mayor Chen Yingxin, the wording "please coordinate to solve patient admission matters."
“目前仍有142例确诊病人无法收治入院，其中红十字会医院65例，其他医院77例，情况异常危急”。
"There are still 142 cases of confirmed patients who cannot be admitted to hospitals, including 65 Red Cross hospitals and 77 other hospitals," he said.
这是《财经》记者获得的来自江汉区疫情防控指挥部的文件中所写，江汉区四家定点医院，在医疗条件差、医护人员缺乏、医疗资源有限的情况下收治了大量病人。
According to a document obtained by Caijing reporter from the Jianghan epidemic prevention and control command, four designated hospitals in Jianghan district treated a large number of patients in poor medical conditions, lack of medical personnel and limited medical resources.
直到2月4日，武汉市中心医院后湖院区成为定点医院，支援汉口医院的人员全部撤回。
Until February 4, Wuhan central hospital back lake courtyard area into a designated hospital, support Hankou hospital personnel all withdrew.
福建和甘肃两省的医疗队先后入驻中心医院，共接管3个病区。
Medical teams from Fujian and Gansu provinces were first stationed at the central hospital and took over three sick areas.
医院才明确划分出清洁区和污染区。
It is only in hospitals that clean areas and contaminated areas are clearly demarcated.
田璐再没有机会进入过污染区。
Lu never gets into the contaminated area again.
“我做院长十三年，从未采用过如此高等级的感控防护措施。
"I've been dean for thirteen years and I've never used such a high level of sensitivity protection.
”驰援队长郑军华称。
The rescue team captain Zheng Junhua said.
他所带领的上海医护团队到达金银潭医院后，用了近一周的时间，研究制定一份详细的感染控制方案。
His Shanghai medical team arrived at the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital and spent nearly a week working out a detailed infection control plan.
按该方案，医院必须要三区两通道，有清洁区、污染区、缓冲区，医护人员和患者要走不同的通道。
Under the programme, the hospital must have three areas, two corridors, a clean area, a contaminated area, a buffer zone and different access routes for medical staff and patients.
有些感染控制调整还需获得医生的理解，更换口罩就是其中之一。
Some infection-control adjustments also need to be understood by doctors, and changing masks is one of them.
郑军华介绍，早期团队全部使用N95-1860口罩，材质较厚，吸收力强。
Zheng Junhua said that the early team all use N95-1860 mask, thick material, strong absorption.
后来，国家标准调整，也可带N95-9132口罩，这款较薄，吸水性能差，戴4个小时就会在口鼻处积水，影响呼吸。
Later, the national standard adjustment, also can take N95-9132 mask, this thin, absorbent performance, will wear four hours in the mouth and nose will be stagnant water, affect the breathing.
但物资紧张时刻，没有N95-1860要说服医生理解。
But in times of material stress, doctors must be persuaded to understand without N95-1860.
为了将院内感染的风险降至最低，医院的消毒细致到每一个动作的指导：每天分别使用双氧水湿巾和物表消毒湿巾擦拭物体表面，包括门把手、桌面、键盘、鼠标和显示屏。
In order to minimize the risk of nosocomial infections, the hospital pasteurizes carefully to the instructions of each movement: daily use of hydrogen peroxide moisturizers and a table of disinfectant wipes to wipe surfaces, including doorknobs, desktops, keyboards, mice and screens.
地面使用1000mg/L含氯消毒剂拖地，使用后浸泡在1000mg/L含氯消毒剂浸泡30分钟，垂直悬挂晾干。
Drain with 1000 mg / L chlorine disinfectant on the ground and soak in 1000 mg / L chlorine disinfectant for 30 minutes and hang dry vertically.
防护鞋表面可以使用75%酒精或1000mg/L含氯消毒剂擦拭、喷洒或消毒湿巾表面擦拭消毒。
The surface of protective shoes can be cleaned, sprayed or disinfected with 75% alcohol or 1000 mg / L chlorine disinfectant.
在生活中，对所有医护人员在酒店进出、房间防护、个人防护以及酒店管理也都规范操作。
In life, all health care workers in the hotel access, room protection, personal protection and hotel management are also standardized operation.
如必须去的饭厅公共区域，按照酒店要求手消毒进入，除吃饭时候需全程戴好口罩，不要一起聚集，分散吃饭，饭后立刻洗手。
If you have to go to a public area, disinfect your hands according to hotel requirements. Wear a mask throughout the meal. Do not gather together. Spread your food and wash your hands immediately after meals.
“我的任务就是医护人员零感染。
"My job is to have zero infections among paramedics.
”郑军华说，到目前我们做到了，是我们的努力，也是我们的幸运。
'So far we have done it, 'says Mr. Cheng.' It's our effort and our luck.
黄朝林自1月22日确诊新冠肺炎之后，病情一度出现反复，出现反复发热并曾有缺氧症状，经过氧疗、抗病毒治疗和其他对症治疗，2月12日晚，“感觉越来越好了”。
Huang, who was diagnosed with pneumonia on January 22, was "feeling better" on the night of Feb. 12 after suffering recurrent fever and hypoxic symptoms after being diagnosed with pneumonia on January 22.
他告诉《财经》记者，随着医护人员防护意识、对病毒认识的增强，相关防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少。
He told Caijing that as health-care workers become more aware of protection and better aware of the virus, protective measures are put in place and fewer and fewer health-care workers should become infected later.
《财经》记者刘以秦对本文亦有贡献；文中刘书、田璐、王木为化名本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
Liu Yicheng, a journalist with Caijing, also contributed to this article; Liu Shu, Tian Lu and Wang Mu in this article, an exclusive collaboration between Caijing and Tencent News, declined to reprint Caijing & amp; Caijing; Huang Duanhuang @ cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
上千名被感染的武汉医护，如何扛过最艰难的一个月。
Thousands of infected Wuhan medical workers, how to carry through the most difficult month.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "上千名被感染的武汉医护，如何扛过最艰难的一个月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; How did the thousands of infected Wuhan health workers who carried Ryder & quot; s hardest month at service?
var msg_desc = "对病毒的未知、医疗物资缺乏，又因高强度的工作压力影响到免疫力，导致医护感染达到高峰。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The unknown nature of the virus, the lack of medical supplies, and the impact on immunity due to high levels of stress led to a peak in health care infections.
随着医护人员防护意识、对病毒认识的增强，相关防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少";。
; With health-care workers' awareness of prevention, increased awareness of the virus, and related precautions in place, late-stage infections should have fewer and fewer health-care workers.
title: '“啥都停了”雾霾咋还这么重？原来如此',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '追踪钻石公主号：邮轮上有两名内地乘客，一人已确诊',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '复工，一场更大的考验',。
Running back to work, a bigger test and a new job.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '接待医护人员的武汉酒店：“现在不是谈钱的时候”，但真的快撑不住了',。
Wuhan, which has hosted paramedics: "This is not the time to talk about money," but it certainly has not held up & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
