现场 | 百步亭困局。
AT & # 124; BIT'S TIME.
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
社区曾经拥有的强大社会动员能力，在那些个人命运里，无足轻重。
The strong social mobilization capacity once possessed by the community does not count for much in those individual destinies.
记者 | 王海燕 (发自武汉)原标题：个人与社区，疫情爆发后的百步亭本文选自新冠特刊「武汉现场」 一名中风患者的就医困境2月7日傍晚，我是在湖北省中医院的停车场里见到李高秋的。
Wang Haiyan (from Wuhan): Individuals and Communities, 100 Steps After the Outbreak The Dilemma of a Stroke Patient at Wuhan Site. On the evening of February 7, I saw Li Gaoqiu in the parking lot of Hubei Provincial Hospital.
听到我的电话后，他从小轿车里钻出来，手里拿着一个小小的喷雾瓶，一边站直，一边往身上从上到下喷了一通，稀薄的酒精味道随即飘过来。
When he heard my phone, he emerged from the car, holding a small spray bottle in his hand, and as he stood upright, he sprayed the top and bottom of his body with a thin whiff of alcohol.
我朝他走过去，离他大约1.5米左右，再往前，他立刻踮着脚尖开始往后退，是下意识的警觉。
I walked towards him, about one and a half metres away, and further on he tiptoed back, subconsciously.
我赶紧停下，懊恼地意识到，自己又忘了，此刻身处武汉，应该遵循远离他人的防疫原则。
I hastened to stop, chagrined to realize that they forgot again, at this moment in Wuhan, should follow the principle of epidemic prevention far away from others.
天气阴沉沉的，停车场出乎意料地冷清，几乎没有患者，只有穿着白大褂的医护人员来来回回，运送着一板车一板车的白萝卜。
The weather was bleak, the parking lot was unexpectedly deserted, there were few patients, only white-coated paramedics coming and going, carrying carts and carts of white turnips.
李高秋跟我说话时，羽绒服的帽子紧紧扣在头上，既像是要抵御寒冷，也像是要抵御病毒。
When Li Gaoqiu talked to me, the cap of his down jacket was clasped tightly around his head, as if to protect against the cold and the virus.
他的头发很乱，眼睛也是肿的，加上瘦，又弓着腰，看起来疲惫已极。
His hair was disheveled, his eyes were swollen, he was thin, he stooped, and he looked very tired.
汉阳医院里，医务人员正在运送萝卜。
Medical staff deliver radishes at Hanyang Hospital.
（黄宇 摄）李高秋已经在大街上飘荡三天了，他是带着岳父出来看病的，但无法入院。
(Ms. Huang) Li Gaoqiu has been wandering the streets for three days. He came out with his father-in-law, but couldn't be hospitalized.
我们说话时，老人不断敲打着车窗玻璃，李高秋拉开车门给我看，首先映入眼帘的，是胡乱堆在轿车后座的暖水瓶、衣服、枕头和日常用品，然后才看到他岳父，50多岁的人，缩在狭小的座位上，嘴巴微微张着，茫然地看着我们。
As we spoke, the old man kept pounding on the window of the car, and Li Gaoqiu opened the door and showed me the thermos, clothes, pillows and groceries littering the back seat of the car before seeing his father-in-law, a man in his fifties, huddled in a narrow seat with his mouth slightly open and staring blankly at us.
李高秋也不知道他要表达什么，2月4日上午，老人突然脸歪了，手也抬不起来，是中风的迹象。
On the morning of February 4, the old man's face suddenly crooked and his hands held up was a sign of stroke.
李高秋是武汉市江岸区百步亭花园社区立春园的居民，岳父中风时，跟女儿（李高秋的妻子）田欣住在一起。
Li Gaoqiu, a resident of the Bumbuting Garden Community Spring Garden in the Jiangan District of Wuhan, lived with his daughter Tian Xin (Li Gaoqiu's wife) when his father-in-law suffered a stroke.
田欣本来准备自己带父亲去看病的，老人当时还能走路、说话，他不愿意去医院，因为怕感染上新冠肺炎。
Tian Xin was going to take her father to see a doctor himself. The old man was still able to walk and talk, and he did not want to go to the hospital for fear of contracting pneumonia.
田欣想得简单，不管感不感染，一定得去医院。
Tian Xin thought simple, whether feeling infected or not, must go to the hospital.
她知道，脑中风是有黄金治疗时间的，必须在3到6小时内送医，否则致残率、致死率将成倍提高。
She knew that stroke had a golden time and had to be treated within three to six hours, otherwise the disability and death rates would increase exponentially.
10多年前，老人中过一次风，治疗及时，很快就痊愈了，如今跟同龄人一样，还能出门旅游、徒步，抱抱小孩。
More than 10 years ago, the old man had a wind, timely treatment, soon recovered, and now, like their peers, can travel, walk, hug children.
田欣不会开车，所以李高秋劝她，还是自己带岳父去看病吧。
Tian Xin can't drive, so Li Gaoqiu advised her to take her father-in-law to see a doctor.
从家里出发时，除了带上口罩、衣服、一次性手套等东西，他还带上了电脑和几本书，准备给老人陪床时用来打发时间。
From home, in addition to wearing masks, clothes, disposable gloves, and other things, he took a computer and a few books to spend time with the old man when he was in bed.
离李高秋家最近的是汉口医院，但汉口医院是新冠肺炎定点医院，人多，感染风险大，李高秋最后带着岳父去了省中医院。
The nearest to the Li Gaoqiu family is Hankou Hospital, but Hankou Hospital is the new Grown Pneumonia designated hospital, many people, high risk of infection, finally Li Gaoqiu took his father-in-law to the provincial Chinese hospital.
在那里，医生给老人拍了颅部CT，结果显示“脑梗塞、脑萎缩”，的确是中风了。
There, doctors took a skull CT scan of the elderly, which showed "cerebral infarction, brain shrinkage," and indeed a stroke.
但李高秋没想到的是，肺部CT还显示，老人“右上肺感染性病变”，医生无法下结论，“建议结合其他相关检查综合考虑”。
But what Li did not expect was that the lung CT also showed that the elderly "right upper lung infectious disease," doctors can not draw conclusions, "recommended in combination with other relevant examinations.
医生给老人开了一点降压药后，建议李高秋去给岳父做个新冠肺炎的病毒核酸检测，排除新冠肺炎，才能正常收治。
The doctor gave the old man a little antihypertensive medication and suggested that Li go to his father-in-law for a new crown pneumonia viral nucleic acid test to remove the normal treatment.
湖北省中医院停车场内，李高秋正在打求助电话。
Li Gaoqiu is calling for help in the parking lot of Hubei TCM Hospital.
（黄宇 摄）田欣立刻在家里给社区打了电话，询问怎么办。
(Huang Yu She) Tian Xin immediately called the community at home and asked what to do.
按照武汉市1月24日的规定，跟新冠肺炎相关的治疗，需要上报社区，再由社区统一安排，分级诊疗。
According to Wuhan City January 24, the treatment related to the new crown pneumonia, need to be reported to the community, and then arranged by the community, graded diagnosis and treatment.
田欣当时对这一规定并不清楚，她只知道，如今从出行到看病，一切正常的社会功能都发生了变化，她本能地向社区求助，但社区建议她，自己去大医院排队做检测，效率更高。
Ms. Tian, who wasn't clear about the rule at the time, only knew that now everything from travel to medical care had changed, and she instinctively turned to the community for help, but the community advised her that it would be more efficient for her to stand in line for tests at the big hospital herself.
李高秋知道后，立刻带着岳父去了武汉协和医院。
When Li Gaoqiu heard about this, he immediately took his father-in-law to Wuhan Concord Hospital.
他运气好，去医院的时间是半夜，虽然不能检测，但从值班护士处拿到了排队的号牌，第二天早上7∶40，李高秋再次去医院排队，上午9∶00带着岳父顺利完成了采样。
Luckily, he went to the hospital in the middle of the night. Though he could not be tested, he got the number plate from the nurse on duty.
李高秋那时还没意识到，这将成为岳父求诊过程中最顺利的时刻，他再难拥有这样的好运气。
Li did not realize that this would be the best time for his father-in-law to seek medical treatment.
新冠肺炎病毒核酸检测结果出来前，李高秋又带着岳父去了离家最近的长航医院和汉口医院，都无法收治。
Before the test results, Li and his father-in-law went to Changhang Hospital and Hankou Hospital, the nearest hospitals, were unable to receive treatment.
在此期间，他眼睁睁看着岳父急转直下，手变得抖抖索索，无法拿稳一块小面包，完整的字词从他的喉咙里消失了，取而代之的是一些咿咿呀呀的无意义音符。
In the meantime, he watched as his father-in-law dithered, his hands shaking, unable to hold on to a loaf of bread, the whole word disappearing from his throat, replaced by gurgling meaningless notes.
田欣让李高秋拍点父亲的视频发过去，他始终没有照办。
Tian Xin asked Li Gaoqiu to shoot some of his father's video sent to the past, he has not complied.
在那两天里，李高秋甚至希望，医院可以开点药，自己来帮岳父打针、输液。
In those two days, Li Gaoqiu even hope that the hospital can prescribe some medicine, to help his father-in-law injection, infusion.
他无法清楚地知道这样做能有什么效果，但无论他还是病人，都太需要“在治疗”的安慰了。
He doesn't know exactly what this is going to do, but he and his patients need the comfort of "therapy."
汉阳医院，无处可去的患者在路边打吊瓶。
Hanyang Hospital, nowhere to go for patients hanging bottles by the side of the road.
（黄宇 摄）最终，2月7日上午，李高秋拿到了岳父的检测结果，显示“阴性”，意味着排除新冠肺炎感染。
Eventually, on the morning of February 7, Li Gaoqiu got his father-in-law's test results, which showed that he was "negative," meaning to rule out a new crown pneumonia infection.
按照常理来说，这本是一个好结果，但当他把这个结果拿回省中医院时，医生认为，核酸检测的准确率不高，要求他岳父再次拍胸部CT，并根据两次结果判定，李高秋的岳父依然有感染新冠肺炎的可能，拒绝收治。
This would have been a good result, but when he returned the results to the provincial Chinese hospital, the doctor decided that the nucleic acid test was not accurate. He asked his father-in-law to take another chest CT and, based on the results, determined that Li's father-in-law was still at risk of contracting pneumonia.
医生的判断并非全无来由，2月5日，呼吸与危重症医学专家、中国医学科学院院长王辰接受媒体采访时也称，核酸对于真实病例的检测率不过30%至50%。
The doctor's judgment was not without cause, and Wang Chen, a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine and dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, told reporters on Feb. 5 that nucleic acids test for real cases is only 30 to 50 percent.
李高秋只能回到社区，准备进入分级诊疗的流程，但这时他才发现，核酸检测的好结果带来了坏消息，原因是社区只负责新冠肺炎的分级诊疗，且严格按照核酸检测标准上报，这意味着，社区最多只能为李高秋的岳父申请第二次核酸检测。
He had to go back to the community to prepare for a tiered procedure, when he found that the good results of DNA testing had brought bad news because the community was only responsible for the grading of New Crown Pneumonia, which was reported strictly according to nucleic acid testing criteria, which meant that the community could only apply for a second nucleic acid test for Li's father-in-law.
但社区每天只能上报一个检测名额，在李高秋岳父的前面，还有一个需要透析的病人，同样在等待排除新冠肺炎，他们无法保证，什么时候能够排到李高秋的岳父。
But the community was able to report only one test a day, and in front of Li's father-in-law, a patient in need of dialysis, who was also waiting to be cleared of pneumonia, could not guarantee when he would make it to Li's father-in-law.
更需要李高秋和妻子权衡的是，经由社区上报，老人如果确诊，就只能进入新冠肺炎定点医院；而如果老人无法确诊，他们将被彻底排除出分级诊疗流程，只能自己去寻找医院。
What Li and his wife need to balance is, through the community reported, the elderly can only be admitted to the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital if diagnosed, and if the elderly can not be diagnosed, they will be completely excluded from the grading process and will have to find the hospital themselves.
这几乎是一个无解的死循环。
This is almost an unsolved cycle of death.
确定的疾病和不确定的感染如果自我判断，李高秋和田欣都觉得，老人没有感染新冠肺炎。
Confirmed by self-diagnosis of the disease and uncertain infection, both Li and Tian felt that the old man was not infected with pneumonia.
从1月22日封城开始，除了李高秋偶尔下楼丢垃圾外，这一家人就再也没有出过一次门。
Since the city was closed on January 22, the family has never been outside more than once, except for Li Gaoqiu, who occasionally drops litter downstairs.
除了偶尔咳嗽，老人也没有出现发热、浑身酸痛、腹泻、呼吸困难等新冠肺炎典型症状。
In addition to occasional coughing, the elderly did not appear fever, aching all over, diarrhea, breathing difficulties and other typical symptoms of new crown pneumonia.
关于父亲肺部的感染，田欣倒是想到，老人平时每天能抽三包烟，肺部有其他感染和病变的可能。
With regard to his father's lung infection, Tian thought that the old man could smoke three packs a day, and his lungs were likely to be infected and diseased.
但这个理由既无法说服医生，也无法说服他们自己。
But this argument neither convinces the doctors nor convinces them.
从李高秋和岳父走出家门那一刻起，新冠肺炎的阴影就和突然到来的中风纠缠在一起，莫名击倒了这一家人。
From the moment Li Gaoqiu and his father-in-law left the house, the shadow of pneumonia was entangled in a sudden stroke that knocked the family down.
田欣把她父亲房间里所有的衣服、床单、被套，全部扔进了洗衣机，水温调到了93℃。
Tian Xin threw all the clothes, sheets and coverings of her father's room into the washing machine, and the water temperature was set to 93 ℃.
整所房子的地板、柜子、台面，田欣都用84消毒水擦了一遍，这本来是一家人自我隔离以来的日常习惯。
The entire house floor, cupboard, countertop, Tian Xin used 84 disinfectant water to wipe over, this was originally a family self-isolation since the daily habit.
而如今，田欣又增加了酒精喷洒环节。
Now, Tian Xin adds the alcohol spraying link.
老人使用过的枕头、牙刷、毛巾，统统都被扔掉了。
Pillows, toothbrushes and towels used by the old man were all thrown away.
我最后一次采访田欣时，距离老人离开家已经过去5天了，这也是国家卫生健康委专家组认为新冠病毒在体外可存活的最长时间，前提是温度、环境等各种条件适宜。
When I last interviewed Tian Xin, five days after the old man left home, it was the longest time the NIH team thought the new crown virus could survive in vitro, provided conditions such as temperature and environment were favorable.
田欣告诉我，直到那时，老人的房间始终保持开窗关门，无人踏进一步。
Tian Xin told me that until then, the old man's room was always open and closed, with no one stepping further.
田欣还让两个孩子和母亲每天至少洗手10次，居家戴口罩，甚至睡觉也不换下。
She also asked her two children and mother to wash their hands at least 10 times a day, wearing masks at home and not even changing their beds.
她开始庆幸，父亲平时脾气暴躁，不爱跟孩子们在一起玩闹，总把自己关在房间里，与电脑作伴。
She began to rejoice that her father was usually grumpy, did not like to play with the children, always shut himself in the room, with the computer for company.
在无法得到有效救治的情况下，田欣的父亲最需要合理的休息和饮食，但被感染的忧虑，让李高秋和岳父不敢回家。
In the absence of effective treatment, Tian Xin's father most needs reasonable rest and diet, but the worry of infection, let Li Gaoqiu and his father-in-law dare not go home.
李高秋本来打算带着岳父去黄陂区休息，那里有一栋房子，是老人平时居住的地方，但在进入黄陂区界时，两人的车被拦了下来。
Li Gaoqiu was going to take his father-in-law to the District of Huangpi District to have a rest. There is a house where the old man usually lives.
拦车的人看起来并不是交警，甚至看不出身份，只是连连让李高秋“回去！回去！”。
The man who stopped the car did not look like a traffic policeman, or even identity, just let Li Gao Qiu "go back! Go back!"
远征 摄李高秋是个程序员，并不擅长跟人起冲突和纠缠，他几乎没问什么，就倒回了武汉的主城区。
Li Gaoqiu is a programmer, not good at fighting and pestering people, he almost did not ask, back to the main city of Wuhan.
他唯一能想到的办法，是去社区开了一份接送患者的通行证明，但这没能帮助他回到黄陂区的房子里。
The only way he could think of was to go to the community and issue a passageway certificate to transport the patient, but it didn't help him return to the house of Huangpi District.
后来他才了解到，连居委会的人去社区取物资，也被拦下来过好几次。
Later, he learned that even the neighborhood committee went to the community to collect supplies, was stopped down several times.
即便如此，“回家”也没有成为一个选项，甚至这个念头丝毫没有从他和田欣的脑海里闪起来过。
Even so, "going home" was not an option, even though the idea never flashed in his mind.
在田欣看来，“就算他们出门前没有感染，去医院后，肯定也感染上了”。
In Tian Xin's view, "even if they do not have infection outside the door, after going to the hospital, must have been infected."
在新闻里，她看到太多这样的例子。
She sees too many examples in the news.
田欣无法准确判断，只知道家里还有两个孩子，她一丁点风险也不想冒，很难再去计算不同行为的性价比。
Tian Xin can not accurately judge, only that there are two children in the family, she did not want to take the slightest risk, it is difficult to calculate different behavior cost-effective.
李高秋虽然尽力避免靠近各个医院的发热门诊区域，但他也赞同妻子的想法，岳父的肺部CT让他忧心忡忡，2月5日下午，他找亲戚借了辆面包车，和岳父在晚上分开睡。
Although Li tried to avoid the hot-out areas near hospitals, he agreed with his wife that his father-in-law's lung CT made him worried. On the afternoon of February 5, he borrowed a van from his relatives and slept separately from his father-in-law at night.
为了洗漱方便，他尽力找靠近公厕的地方停车。
He tried to find a place close to the public toilet for convenience.
为了减少和人打交道的次数，他和岳父两人都靠袋装小面包填肚子。
Both he and his father-in-law were filling their stomachs with baggy buns in an effort to cut down on people.
因为缺少消毒用品和一次性手套，他在超市买了清洁用品，倒出里面的液体，洗干净后灌入了朋友送来的酒精；一次性手套则是用保鲜膜自制的。
Lacking disinfectant supplies and disposable gloves, he bought cleaning products at the supermarket, emptied the liquid, washed it and filled it with alcohol delivered by his friends; disposable gloves were made of plastic wrap.
田欣说，李高秋以往在家里，每天早上，连衬衣和袜子都要她准备好，她没想到，他还会做这些。
Ms. Tian says Ms. Li used to be at home, preparing shirts and socks every morning. She didn't expect him to do any of that.
2月8日，百步亭路边开放的菜场里，不时有居民出门买菜。
On February 8, residents went out to buy vegetables in a vegetable farm that opened along the road at Bumpting.
随后，2月10日起，部分社区实行出行管制。
Subsequently, on 10 February, travel controls were introduced in some communities.
（黄宇 摄）流落街头的几天里，李高秋和家人互动了两次，一次是给妻子和孩子送了些口罩、消毒水和感冒药；另一次则是让他自己的父母送了两个灌满热水的暖水壶出来。
During the days he spent wandering the streets, he interacted with his family twice, once by giving his wife and children masks, disinfectant and cold remedies, and once by asking his parents to send out two thermos kettles filled with hot water.
两次交接中，他都没有和家人见面。
On neither occasion did he meet with his family.
除了工作敲代码，李高秋平时少有社交生活，家里的大小事务几乎都由田欣处理。
In addition to work code, Li Gaoqiu rarely social life, the size of the family almost all deal with by Tian Xin.
如今突然接下照顾岳父的重担，还要和家人隔绝，李高秋感到异常孤独和疲惫，岳父的核酸检测结果出来前，除了小范围求助，几乎没人知道李高秋家出事了，李高秋总觉得，事情应该能够解决。
Today, suddenly taking over the burden of caring for his father-in-law and being cut off from his family, Li Gaoqiu felt very lonely and tired. Before his father-in-law's nucleic acid test results came out, almost no one knew anything about the accident of the Li Gaoqiu family.
他是那种慢吞吞的人，也总是体谅他人，但核酸检测结果出来，定点医院和非定点医院都无法接纳岳父后，李高秋开始疯了一样拨打110、市长热线、报社电话，但每一方的反馈都是令人失望的。
He was a slow eater and always considerate of others, but when nucleic acid tests came out and the designated and non-designated hospitals were unable to take in his father-in-law, Li Gaoqiu went crazy calling 110, the mayor's hotline and the newspaper's telephone, but the feedback from each side was disappointing.
李高秋是做IT的，2008年就开始跟人合伙创业，他在厦门做过门户网站，在北京做过网上遗嘱项目，很早之前还在武汉做过外卖送餐平台，大大小小的项目，遭遇过很多困难和失败，但没有哪一次，让他生出过这种绝望和溃败的心情。
Li Gaoqiu was an IT worker who started his own business with others in 2008. He did a portal in Xiamen, an online will project in Beijing, and a long time ago in Wuhan as a delivery platform for takeaway food.
远征 摄他请医生朋友看了岳父的片子，对方唯一能给出的建议是，“好好休息”。
He invited his doctor and friends to see his father-in-law's film. The only advice he could give was, "Take a good rest."
但这个平时看起来无比简单的事情，李高秋根本做不到，白天总有这样那样的事情，而在夜里，最多两三个小时，他就会惊醒一次。
But this usually seemingly simple thing, Li Gaoqiu can not do, there are always some things during the day, and in the night, at most two or three hours, he will wake up.
也有一些来自其他渠道的建议，2月8日晚，李高秋终于在一家医院为岳父找到一个位置可以打针，医护人员答应，可以让他陪着岳父，在医院的留观室里住一晚。
On the night of February 8, Li finally found a place for his father-in-law to be injected in a hospital. Medical staff agreed to let him spend the night with his father-in-law in the hospital's observation room.
有护士建议他，可以让老人再拖一拖，拖到疑似新冠肺炎重症，入院的几率就会大大提高。
A nurse advised him to let the old man delay until the suspected severe pneumonia, hospital admission will be greatly increased.
而田欣在跟社区交涉的时候，社区工作人员则建议她，让李高秋带着老人去发热门诊，赖着不走，也有机会被收治。
While Tian Xin was dealing with the community, the community workers advised her to let Li Gaoqiu take the elderly to the fever clinic, hang on, but also have the opportunity to be admitted.
显然，这些办法都要付出巨大代价。
Clearly, these approaches come at great cost.
2月8日下午，田欣接到李高秋的电话，他说“老婆，我真的太累了”，随即挂断了电话。
Feb. 8 afternoon, Tian Xin received a telephone call from Li Gaoqiu. He said, "Wife, I'm really tired" and hung up the phone.
在那之前，他告诉田欣，老人的状态已经恶化到小便失禁。
Before that, he told Tian Xin that the old man's condition had deteriorated to incontinence.
他独自面对的，不只是老人的疾病，也不只是如何避免感染，而是城市基本功能完全暂停后，每一条路都走不通的无助和惊慌。
It was not just the old man's illness that he faced alone, not just how to avoid infection, but the helplessness and panic that made every road impassable after the complete suspension of the city's basic functions.
也是在那天下午的某一刻，田欣的脑海里突然冒出一个念头，她想让李高秋把父亲放在医院里，自己找个地方好好休息一下，如果他真的那样做，她想，自己绝不怪他。
At some point that afternoon, an idea occurred to Tian Xin that she wanted Li Gaoqiu to put her father in the hospital and take a good rest by himself. If he did, she thought, she would never blame him.
但这个念头，她最终没有说出口。
But this idea she did not say in the end.
作为社区居民采访田欣时，我很难分清，父亲中风和全家被感染的可能，到底哪件事更让她忧虑。
When I interviewed Tian as a community resident, it was hard to tell what worried her more than my father's stroke and the possibility that his family was infected.
在她父亲刚出事时，她把最重要的希望寄托在社区身上，这是她目前唯一能一对一联系上的代表政府的机构。
When her father first had an accident, she pinned her most important hopes on the community, the only body she had left to represent the government on a one-on-one basis.
但她打电话的第一个社区工作人员告诉她，自己也在发烧，被隔离了。
But the first community worker she called told her she, too, had a fever and was quarantined.
在和另一个社区工作人员联系时，对方建议她，带着母亲和两个孩子找朋友或酒店自我隔离，把家里的房子留给李高秋和她父亲，这样全家都有机会好好休息。
When contacted by another community worker, she was advised to take her mother and two children to a friend or hotel to isolate herself, leaving the family home to Li Gaoqiu and her father so that the family could have a good rest.
田欣觉得，这是天方夜谭，“现在兵荒马乱的，我带着两个幼小的孩子和另外一个老人去外面找房子？我们被感染了怎么办？”。
Tian Xin felt that it was a faraway story. "Now I'm in a mess. I'm going out looking for a house with my two young children and another old man. What do we do if we get infected?"
双方立刻谈崩了。
The two sides fell apart at once.
远征 摄田欣入住立春园5年多，这是她和社区居委会关系最糟糕的时刻。
The expedition to LiChun Garden for more than five years was the worst time for her relationship with the neighborhood committee.
她当初搬到立春园小区，一是看中这里的教育资源和生活条件，二是她有电梯恐惧症，喜欢这里的老式楼梯房。
She moved to LiChunyuan District, first, to see the educational resources and living conditions, and second, she has elevator phobia, like the old stairs here.
结婚后很长一段时间，田欣都在家做家庭主妇。
For a long time after marriage, Tian Xin was a homemaker at home.
她喜欢做各种好吃的，中餐、西餐都会做，每年5月到10月，她家会流水般迎来一波又一波的客人，她用虾和蟹招待自己的朋友，丈夫的朋友，儿子的朋友，虾有油焖的、蒜蓉的、香辣的、咖喱的。
She likes to cook all kinds of delicious food, Chinese food, Western food can be done, her family will welcome each May to October wave after wave of guests, she used shrimp and crab friends, her husband's friends, son's friends, shrimp stew oil, garlic, spicy, curry.
她还会给邻居送自制糕点，所以和大多数年轻人不一样，田欣很快就在立春园交到了众多朋友，还进入了社区居委会的志愿者群。
She would also give homemade pastries to her neighbors, so unlike most young people, Tian Xin quickly made many friends in LiChun Garden and joined the volunteer corps of community neighborhood committees.
2019年底，还有人问过田欣，是否愿意进入居委会工作，工资1800元，但当时田欣已经有工作了，所以拒绝了这一邀请。
At the end of 2019, Tian Xin was also asked if she would like to work for a neighborhood committee. The salary was 1,800 yuan, but Tian Xin had a job at the time, so she declined the invitation.
百步亭的基层居委会给她的印象确实不一般，这个社区光志愿者就有超过1000人，田欣对他们印象很好，“总是有一群叔叔阿姨，这里去跳舞，那里去徒步，拍照片，看着也蛮好的”。
Tian Xin was impressed with the community of more than 1,000 light volunteers. "There is always a group of uncles and aunts going to dance here, going there on foot, taking photos and looking good."
她让自己的妈妈报了五花八门的兴趣班，比如太极拳班、太极扇班、唱歌班、模特班、钢琴班。
She told her mother to take various interest classes, such as Taijiquan class, tai chi fan class, singing class, model class, piano class.
她还参加过两次传统的万家宴，第一次做了两道菜，蓝莓山药和剁椒鱼头；第二次则是社区分配的任务，做了个大蛋糕。
She also attended two traditional family dinners, the first two dishes, blueberry yams and chopped peppers head; the second was a community assignment and made a big cake.
她记得，参加万家宴的大致流程是，头天志愿者们会到不同的居民家里确认菜品名字，第二天一早则去收集菜品，拿到居委会，由居委会将菜品分类，好看的送到展览会场，好吃的留下给工作人员做团年饭，还有一些会送给社区的空巢老人，田欣还带着儿子做过万家宴的志愿者。
She remembers that the general procedure for attending the feast was that the first day the volunteers went to different residents' homes to confirm the names of the dishes, and the next morning they went to collect dishes and take them to the neighborhood committees, which sorted the dishes and sent them to the exhibition.
百步亭“万家宴”展厅场景，宴会上居民并不会就餐。
Hundred steps Pavilion "Banquet" exhibition hall scene, the dinner party residents will not eat.
（中新社供图）2019年以来，田欣开始在附近的一家民营口腔医院上班，因为工作忙，所以今年接到万家宴邀请时，她拒绝了。
Since 2019, Tian Xin has been working at a nearby private oral hospital, so she declined an invitation to a family dinner this year because of her busy schedule.
为此，她还特意嘱咐父母，不要去万家宴上逛，免得被人问起她怎么不参加。
To this end, she also specially enjoined her parents, do not go to Wanjiefei stroll, lest she be asked why she did not attend.
和社区工作人员一样，1月18日的时候，田欣并没有强烈意识到万家宴有何不妥。
Like community workers, Tian did not feel strongly about what was wrong with the feast on January 18th.
她平时不爱看新闻，一月初曾偶然瞟到过“武汉发现不明肺炎”的信息，当时正值儿子期末考试，她没有精力去关注这些一闪而过的消息。
She doesn't usually read the news, glancing at the "Wuhan discovery of unidentified pneumonia" message in early January, when her son's final exam, she had no energy to focus on the passing news.
万家宴的头一天，她工作得太晚，第二天一直睡到中午，等到起床时，她父母已经从万家宴上逛了一圈回来了，她依然没有觉得不妥。
On the first day of the feast, she worked too late and slept the next day until noon, when her parents had returned from a round of banquets, and she still felt comfortable.
此后，直到武汉封城，她才突然意识到，疫情可能比之前公开的信息更严重。
It was not until Wuhan was sealed that she suddenly realized that the epidemic might be more serious than previously disclosed information.
也就是从封城那天起，田欣一家再没出过家门。
That is, from the day the city was closed, the Tian Xin family never left home.
自从万家宴的新闻在网上引起巨大争议后，时不时有朋友问她，是否参加过万家宴，百步亭社区疫情如何。
Since the Wan family dinner news caused a huge controversy on the Internet, from time to time friends asked her if she had attended a 10,000-family dinner, how about the epidemic situation in the 100-foot-pavilion community.
但事实上，田欣和外界一样想知道，整个百步亭到底有多少人确诊和疑似感染新冠肺炎。
But in fact, Tian joined the outside world in wondering how many people had been diagnosed and suspected to be infected with New Crown Pneumonia.
2月4日，也就是田欣父亲中风的头一天，一张“百步亭爆发了”的截图开始在网上疯传。
On Feb. 4, the day before Tian's father suffered a stroke, a screenshot of the "100-foot pavilion burst" began to circulate wildly online.
截图显示，离田欣家不远的另一居委会安居苑和百合苑中，有57个单元出现了发热病人。
As shown in the screenshot, 57 units of Qu Nga Court and Lilium Court, not far from the Tin Hin Home, had fever cases.
2月5日，本刊记者在小区中的走访证实，网传发热病人的单元门上，的确都贴上了“发热楼栋”字样。
Feb. 5, our reporter in the district of the visit confirmed that the heat transfer patients unit door, are indeed affixed with the words "fever building."
没人能确切地知道，这些发热的单元楼里，病人们到底是什么状况，又是怎么安置的。
No one knows for sure what kind of situation patients are in these feverish apartment buildings and how they are housed.
百步亭某社区的一名工作人员方家敏告诉我，发热门栋的病人都是自己向居委会报告身体状态，或者经由社区卫生中心共享信息后跟踪。
Fang Jiamin, a worker in a community at Bumpingting, told me that patients with fever doorsteps reported their condition to the neighborhood committee or followed up by sharing information through community health centers.
根据方家敏的了解，立春园3000多户居民里，在1月25日过后，社区跟踪到的发热病人接近30个，截止到2月8日，确诊新冠肺炎的重症患者4个，另有3个轻症患者送入方舱医院，1个疑似患者在酒店隔离，另有部分患者在家排队等待检测，其中包括已经使用了呼吸机的老人。
According to Fang's understanding, after Jan. 25, the community had tracked nearly 30 cases of fever among more than 3,000 residents. As of February 8, four patients with severe cases had been diagnosed with pneumonia, another three had been admitted to the cabin hospital, one was quarantined at the hotel, and others were waiting to be tested at home, including elderly people who had already used a ventilator.
截止到2月7日下午，全武汉市已经有起码190个社区公布了社区内的确诊、疑似和隔离病例，部分社区还公布了死亡和治愈病例，但百步亭花园社区的9个居委会并不包括在内。
By the afternoon of February 7, at least 190 communities across Wuhan had announced cases of diagnosis, suspicion and isolation in their communities, and some communities had announced cases of death and cure, with the exception of nine neighborhood committees in the Baebuting Garden community.
如果方家敏的数据真实，立春园小区的感染比例并不高。
If the data of Fang Jiamin is true, the infection rate of LiChunyuan district is not high.
我问他，既然居民强烈要求，为什么不公布这些数据，他说：“那是领导的事情，我不评论。
I asked him why, given the strong demand from residents, he said, "It's a leadership matter, and I'm not commenting on it.
”除此之外，小区居民尤为在意的事情是，小区消杀工作不到位，只有发热门栋的单元门口做了简单消毒。
In addition, the residents of the area are particularly concerned that the work is not in place, only the heating door of the unit to do a simple sterilization.
方家敏说，这个情况是真实的，原因是小区物业缺乏人手，只有几名接近60岁的物业工作者负责消杀，“这个年纪了，背个三四十斤的桶，7楼去喷（消毒水），怎么喷得过来”。
Fang said the situation was real because property in the area was understaffed, with only a few property workers close to the age of 60 responsible for extermination. "At this age, take a bucket of thirty or forty pounds and spray it on the 7th floor."
他还提到，百步亭花园社区的架构和普通街道办事处不一样，从开发至今，整个社区的居民事务，都由百步亭集团主管。
He also mentioned that the structure of the Bumpting Gardens community was different from that of the ordinary street offices and that, from its inception to the present, the residents of the whole community were run by the Bumpting Group.
百步亭集团下设百步亭花园社区管委会和百步亭物业服务公司，管委会下面设9个居民委员会，百步亭物业服务公司下设各小区物业。
There are nine residents committees under the Management Committee, and residential properties under the Baebuting Property Services Company.
这个架构在平时的合作中可以亲密无间，但特殊时期，方家敏称，居委会只能督促物业加强消杀工作，没法代替落实。
This structure in peacetime cooperation can be intimate, but special period, Fang Jiamin said that the neighborhood committee can only urge the property to strengthen the elimination of work, can not replace the implementation.
他还提到，在疫情防控工作开始后，百步亭一些小区有工作人员辞职，包括保洁、保安和居委会网格员。
He also mentioned that after the beginning of the epidemic prevention and control efforts, there were staff resignations in some quarters of the Pavilion, including cleaning, security and neighborhood committee members.
这种情况在百步亭花园社区的其他几个居委会也存在。
This situation also exists in several other neighborhood committees in the Bumpting Garden community.
在另一个百步亭的小区群里，直到2月9日晚上，才有居委会书记提到，招募到了一个志愿者，可以帮助消杀，另外居委会还会将工业泡腾片放置在单元门口，鼓励居民自行取用和消杀。
On the night of February 9, a neighborhood committee secretary at another 100-foot pavilion mentioned that a volunteer had been recruited to help eliminate the disease, and that the neighborhood committee would place the industrial bubble film at the entrance to the unit, encouraging residents to take it and kill it themselves.
这一行为再次引来小区微信群里居民们的强烈反弹。
This behavior once again drew a strong response from residents of the small community micro-letter group.
舆论聚焦、信息不透明和消杀工作不到位，加上医疗资源短缺，让恐慌和病毒一样在社区中有了传染性。
The focus of public opinion, the lack of transparency and eradication, coupled with a shortage of medical resources, have made panic as contagious as the virus in the community.
在我加入的百步亭各个小区群里，有业主不敢下楼买菜，送货员送到楼下后，他们会用绳子把菜吊回家里；有人看到对面楼栋的老人坐在阳台上晒太阳，未戴口罩，于是询问是否可以举报；还有人自称，下楼丢完垃圾后，要在通风的楼道里停留几个小时后才敢进门。
Some of the owners of the 100-foot pavilion I joined were afraid to go downstairs to buy groceries. They used ropes to hoist the food home. Old people in the opposite building were seen sitting on the balcony in the sun without a mask and asked if they could report it.
亲人之间方家敏说，百步亭社区每年最隆重和热闹的活动，其实不是万家宴，而是元宵灯会。
Family members between Fang Jiamin said that the 100-step-ting community the most solemn and lively activities, in fact, is not a feast, but Lantern Festival.
灯会上的灯都是居委会领着志愿者们自己扎的，今年的灯扎了3个多月，如今只能被蒙起来，摆在了居委会的院子里。
Lights on the meeting are led by the neighborhood committee volunteers Zha, this year's lights for more than three months, can now only be put up blindfolded, put in the courtyard of the neighborhood committee.
说起这件事，方家敏的语气有点遗憾。
Speaking of this matter, Fang Jiamin's tone is a bit regrettable.
他已经在百步亭花园社区工作多年了，他挺喜欢这里的氛围。
He's been working in the Bumpting Garden community for years, and he likes the atmosphere.
我采访他那天，他的一项工作是去超市买菜，给独居老人们送上楼，老人们跟他很熟，热情地感谢他，虽然累，但这是他熟悉、擅长和喜欢的工作。
On the day I interviewed him, one of his jobs was to go to the supermarket to buy food and send upstairs to the old people who lived alone. The old people were familiar with him and thanked him warmly.
但除此之外，在防疫工作中，他得心应手的工作几乎没有了：比如公布疫情信息，这不在居委会的权限范围内；消杀工作，物资和人力都不够；居民买菜困难，他们联系到的商家，居民并不满意；有的发热病人强烈要求隔离，但也有确诊患者躲藏起来，需要到处寻找。
But beyond that, there were few easy jobs for him in the epidemic prevention work: for example, publishing epidemic information, which was not within the purview of the neighbourhood committees; eradication efforts, insufficient material and human resources; difficulties in purchasing food from residents, who contacted businesses with unsatisfactory residents; feverish patients who clamoured for isolation, but also confirmed patients who went into hiding and needed to be looked for everywhere.
然而，最困难的依然是分级诊疗中的上报工作，“都是人命关天的事”，责任和压力就这么集中到他们手上了。
However, the most difficult thing is still the reporting in the grading process, "it's all a matter of life," where responsibility and pressure are concentrated.
上报和跟踪患者情况，需要对患者的情况做出准确判断，但社区工作人员很难做到，为了给自己社区的居民争取名额，有的社区工作人员会把自己社区的患者通通报成危重。
Reporting and tracking patients requires an accurate diagnosis of the patient's situation, but it is difficult for community workers, some of whom will inform patients in their own communities of the critical nature of the situation, in order to obtain quotas for residents of their communities.
百步亭花园社区的文化长廊边，大红灯笼已早早布置好，却没有迎来一个祥和的春节。
Baebuting Garden Community Cultural Corridor, big red lanterns have been arranged early, but did not usher in a peaceful Spring Festival.
（黄宇 摄）武汉的防疫工作开始后，方家敏就预料到，基层会参与一些工作，但他以为，分级诊疗政策实施后，起码会有医生来帮忙，防护物资充足，结果什么都没有，只有名额限制。
When the epidemic prevention work in Wuhan began, Fang anticipated that the grass-roots level would take part in some of the work, but he thought that after the implementation of the tiered approach, at least doctors would come to help and the supplies would be sufficient.
2月9日，我采访田欣的时候，她已经把自己关在卧室里5天了，其间一直足不出户。
When I interviewed Tian Xin on February 9, she had kept herself in her bedroom for five days, without leaving her house.
因为洗过父亲的衣物和床上用品，她总怀疑自己是不是携带了病毒。
After washing her father's clothes and bedding, she wondered if she was carrying the virus.
她甚至不敢洗头，因为家里只有一个吹风机，“传给孩子们的话怎么办呢”。
She didn't even dare to wash her hair, because there was only one hairdryer in the house.
田欣自己也知道，这些念头并不都是出于理智，但她忍不住。
Tian herself knew that these thoughts were not always rational, but she could not help it.
她一直都是个喜欢好消息，不喜欢坏消息的人。
She has always been a person who likes good news and dislikes bad news.
封城后，一家人刚刚开始隔离时，田欣刻意忽略掉了网上的疫情信息，给孩子们播放各种各样的喜剧电影，鼓励妈妈在家里练太极，为孩子们做各种好吃的，奶油培根意大利面，咖喱鸡块，羊排火锅，她有本事让一家人在家也过得欢声笑语。
When the family was just beginning to isolate the city, Tian deliberately ignored the epidemic information on the Internet, showing children a variety of comedies, encouraging their mothers to practice tai chi at home, making delicious, creamy bacon spaghetti, curry chicken and lamb chops for their children.
那时候，她偶尔会看看新冠肺炎的致死率、病重率，但看得不太认真，只记住了14天隔离期这个日子，一天一天数着，总觉得新冠肺炎离自己很近，但又很远。
At that time, she occasionally looked at the death rate and the severity rate of pneumonia, but she did not take it too seriously, remembering only the 14-day isolation period, counting from day to day.
但父亲中风后，大量信息开始扑面而来，几乎是顷刻之间，她觉得自己好像突然失去了对信息的分辨能力。
But after her father's stroke, a flood of information began to pour down her face, almost instantaneously, and she felt as if she had suddenly lost all sense of information.
网上有各种各样的传闻，超长的潜伏期，超级传播者，远距离传播，以前不相信的，现在她都相信了。
There are all kinds of rumors on the Internet, super latency, super-spreaders, long-distance spread, things she didn't believe before, and now she believes.
她还时刻关注自己的身体状态，总觉得心跳加速，头皮发紧，想让人带自己去医院拍个胸部CT，做个核酸检测。
She was also concerned about her physical state and felt her heart beat fast and her scalp tight. She wanted someone to take her to the hospital for a chest CT and a nucleic acid test.
只有检测了，她才放心。
Only when she had been tested was she reassured.
父亲中风前，田欣经常抱怨李高秋，觉得他太闷了，天天都是自己对着手机和电脑。
Before his father's stroke, Tian Xin often complained about Li Gaoqiu, feeling that he was too stuffy, and that he was facing his mobile phone and computer every day.
李高秋是个孝顺的人，以前总跟田欣说：“我爸妈生我养我不容易，你以后要跟我一起孝顺他们。
Li Gao Qiu is a filial piety person, always said to Tian Xin before: "My parents gave birth to me to raise me is not easy, you will be filial with me in the future.
”田欣心里多少是有怨气的，因为自己生两个孩子，公公婆婆帮忙不多。
"Tian Xin was somewhat resentful, because she had two children of her own, and her father-in-law did not do much to help.
她总是直白地跟李高秋说：“我不妨碍你尽孝，但是你不要要求我。
She always told him bluntly, "I'm not in your way, but don't ask me.
”直到这一次，田欣才发现，李高秋对她父母比她这个女儿都好。
It was not until this time that Tian discovered that Li Gao Qiu was nicer to her parents than her daughter.
以前李高秋的生活自理能力差，田欣总觉得自己像是多养了个儿子，但这次她发现，李高秋比她冷静，比她成长更快。
Li Gao Qiu's life before poor self-care ability, Tian Xin always felt like she had an additional son, but this time she found that Li Gaoqiu is calmer than her, growing faster than her.
她在家里急得痛哭想要放弃时，反而是不善言辞的李高秋安慰她，要稳住，要坚持。
She cried at home in a hurry to give up, but the inarticulate Li Gaoqiu consoled her, to calm down, to persist.
结婚这么多年，她第一次觉得，自己跟李高秋之间，有了无法斩断的亲情。
After all these years of marriage, she felt for the first time that she and Li Gaoqiu had an unbreakable relationship.
情绪最激动的时候，田欣跟居委会的社区书记吵架，说要发动所有业主去投诉。
The emotional most exciting time, Tian Xin and the neighborhood committee's community secretary quarreled, said to mobilize all owners to complain.
但社区书记说了一句话，她瞬间低落下去。
But a word from the community secretary sent her down in a flash.
社区书记说：“我真希望自己立刻感染，起码就可以隔离在家不出门了。
"I wish I were infected right away," the community secretary said. "At least I could be isolated and stay home.
”最终，田欣没有发动业主去投诉，社区书记也没有推病回家。
In the end, Tian did not initiate a complaint from the owner and the community secretary did not push her home.
2月9日下午，田欣第一次接到了社区主动打来的电话，告诉她，社区为她爸爸买了两包纸尿裤、两包垫子，还弄到一副轮椅，并且争取到第二次核酸检测的名额。
On the afternoon of February 9, Tian first received a call from the community, telling her that the community had bought two bags of diapers, two mattresses and a wheelchair for her father, and had won a second nucleic acid test.
田欣只希望，爸爸能够再撑一撑。
Tian Xin only hoped, the father can support again.
（本文刊载于《三联生活周刊》2020年第7期【新冠特刊】，点击阅读原文一键下单，文中李高秋、田欣、方家敏，立春园为化名）作者档案王海燕三联记者，比较喜欢采访，偶尔也喜欢写稿26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信公众号：解放路97号（jm-freetree）请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
(This article is published in the 2007 issue of Triple Life Weekly's new crown special issue. The article is written by Li Gaoqiu, Tian Xin, Fang Jiamin and Li Chun Yuan (alias).
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠特刊】       。
Click to read the original text, enter the weekly bookstore, buy the new crown special issue.
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
现场 | 百步亭困局。
AT & # 124; BIT'S TIME.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "现场 | 百步亭困局";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "舆论聚焦、信息不透明和消杀工作不到位，加上医疗资源短缺，让恐慌和病毒一样在社区中有了传染性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; focused public opinion, opaque information and poor sterilization, coupled with a shortage of medical resources, have made panic as contagious as the virus in the community.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
