全国多地小区发“出入证”限制进出次数，专家：有法律依据，应注意尺度。
Many small areas throughout the country to issue "pass" to limit the number of access, experts: there is a legal basis, should pay attention to the scale.
赵孟  汪畅。
Zhao Mengwangchang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：赵孟 汪畅（实习记者）“ 小区封闭式管理，是社区切断病毒的好办法，加强社区管理没有错，但是封闭小区的具体措施是值得考虑的。
Reporter: Zhao Mengwangchang (trainee reporter) "The community closed management, is a good way to cut off the virus, strengthen community management is not wrong, but the specific measures of the closed community is worth considering.
”2020年2月11日凌晨，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部第12号通告发布，决定自即日起在全市范围内所有住宅小区实行封闭管理。
In the early morning hours of February 11, 2020, Wuhan Hsinchuang Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Notice No. 12, which decided to implement the city-wide closure of all residential areas with immediate effect.
界面新闻通过梳理发现，2月3日，杭州连夜紧急发布全城封闭式管理通知，此后封闭式管理在全国效仿开来。
Interface news through carding found that on February 3, Hangzhou issued an emergency overnight management notice of the whole city, closed management in the country to emulate.
随着疫情防控措施不断加码，目前已经有江苏、天津、福建、北京、重庆、广东等省市实行小区封闭管理。
As the measures to prevent and control the disease have been stepped up, Jiangsu, Tianjin, Fujian, Beijing, Chongqing, Guangdong and other provinces and municipalities have implemented closed management of small areas.
这些封闭管理的小区出入都要测体温，以派发“出入证”的方式，严控每天或每周进去小区的人数和次数。
The enclosed neighborhoods have their body temperature checked in and out to distribute "passes" that control the number and number of people entering the area every day or week.
公开信息显示，深圳等地的一些小区发放了“通行证”，重庆、昆明、哈尔滨、黄山的小区，封闭管理中限制了每户出入的人数，要求居民定期采购。
Public information shows that some communities in Shenzhen and other places have issued "laissez-passer," while the small districts of Chongqing, Kunming, Harbin and Huangshan have restricted the number of people entering or leaving their homes under closed management, requiring residents to purchase them regularly.
安徽黄山市某小区并未有新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的确诊人员，但是规定除了需要上班的人员，一家只有一人能领取通行证，每两天能出门一次，出行的时间为两小时，快递也不让进。
An area of Huangshan City, Anhui Province, does not have a new coronavirus infection pneumonia confirmed personnel, but only one person in a family except those who need to work, can go out every two days, travel time of two hours, express delivery is not allowed.
四川省南通市某小区则制定了单双日出行的规定。
A small area in Nantong City, Sichuan Province, has made provisions for single two-day trips.
封闭小区是否有法律依据？陕西恒达律师事务所高级合伙人、知名公益律师赵良善对界面新闻表示，封闭小区等措施，是当地政府在疫情特殊时期所采取的特殊措施，是为保障公共卫生安全和公众身体健康，这样必然牺牲部分个人利益，坚持公共集体利益高于个人利益的原则，封闭小区等措施是有必要的。
Zhao Liangshan, senior partner of Hengda Law Firm in Shaanxi Province and a well-known public welfare lawyer, told the Interface News that measures such as sealing off small areas are necessary to protect public health safety and public health, thus inevitably sacrificing some private interests and upholding the principle that public collective interests take precedence over private interests.
《传染病防治法》第四十二条规定，传染病暴发、流行时，县级以上地方人民政府应当立即组织力量，按照预防、控制预案进行防治，切断传染病的传播途径，必要时，报经上一级人民政府决定，可以采取下列紧急措施并予以公告：（一）限制或者停止集市、影剧院演出或者其他人群聚集的活动；（二）停工、停业、停课；（三）封闭或者封存被传染病病原体污染的公共饮用水源、食品以及相关物品；（四）控制或者扑杀染疫野生动物、家畜家禽；（五）封闭可能造成传染病扩散的场所。
(1) to restrict or stop the performance of bazaars, cinemas or other mass gatherings; (2) to close down or close down public drinking water sources, foodstuffs and related articles contaminated with infectious disease pathogens; (4) To close down or close down places where infectious diseases may spread.
上级人民政府接到下级人民政府关于采取前款所列紧急措施的报告时，应当即时作出决定。
When receiving the report on emergency measures listed in the preceding paragraph from the people's government at a lower level, the people's government shall make a decision immediately.
紧急措施的解除，由原决定机关决定并宣布。
The original decision-making organ shall decide and announce the lifting of the emergency measures.
赵良善认为，法律赋予了当地政府采取措施切断传染病的传播途径的权力，比如封闭小区等措施。
Zhao argued that the law gave local authorities the power to take measures to cut off the spread of infectious diseases, such as sealing off small areas.
在执行中，由小区物业来落实执行。
In the implementation of the property by the community to implement the implementation.
如因小区物业执行不力，导致新型冠状病毒传染的，可根据《治安管理处罚法》的有关规定，对小区物业的负责人进行治安处罚。
If the new coronavirus infects because the property in the neighbourhood is not executed properly, the person in charge of the property in the neighbourhood may be punished according to the relevant provisions of the Law on Punishment of Public Security Administration.
中国人民大学公共管理学院教授毛寿龙称，“新冠病毒太凶猛，小区封闭式管理，是社区切断病毒的好办法，加强社区管理没有错，但是封闭小区的具体措施是值得考虑的。
Mao Shoulong, professor at the School of Public Administration at Renmin University of China, said: "The new crown virus is too ferocious and the closed management of small areas is a good way for the community to cut off the virus.
”他认为，扫码进入小区、量体温等手段都没有问题，但是单双号限制进出、宵禁等措施是防控不专业的体现。
He said there was no problem sweeping code into the area or measuring body temperature, but that single-digit restrictions on entry and exit, curfews and other measures reflected a lack of professionalism.
毛寿龙认为，小区封闭式管理指的是对流动人口的管理，目的应该在于早发现、早隔离和减少互相之间的串门，而不是限制进出。
Mao Shoulong believes that the closed management of the community refers to the management of the floating population, the aim should be to detect early, early isolation and reduce mutual visits, rather than restricting access.
尽管政府或物业公司封闭小区的行为合法，但赵良善提醒，政府在发布类似决定、命令时，要注意坚持所发布的决定、命令合法性、合理性、必要性，不能无限度地扩大其权力。
Zhao Liangshan reminds the government that when issuing similar decisions and orders, it should pay attention to upholding the legality, rationality and necessity of the decisions issued, and cannot extend its powers indefinitely.
“比如，制定决定、命令时，应严格依照《行政强制法》规定，程序需合法。
"Decisions and orders, for example, should be made in strict compliance with the provisions of the Administrative Enforcement Code and the procedures need to be legal.
据目前临床判断，新型冠状病毒在人体内潜伏为7到14天，每个人需自我隔离约14天，政府在发布决定、命令时，不能将隔离延长为1个月、或无限地延长期限。
According to the current clinical judgment, the new coronavirus lurks in the human body for 7-14 days, and each person has to isolate himself for about 14 days.
”毛寿龙建议，在疫区的小区或者有确诊病例的小区里，应该密切监视，做好封闭管理，如有发现疑似患者，交由疾控中心获医院进行隔离。
Mao suggested that in small areas of affected areas or small areas with confirmed cases, close surveillance should be carried out, and suspected patients should be placed under quarantine at the CDC.
或者是流行病调查还未完成的小区，应该完全封闭做好调查，之后再进行一般性的封闭管理，如保安值守、出入量体温等。
Or the epidemiological investigation has not been completed in the community, should be completely closed to do a good job of investigation, then general closed management, such as security guard, access to temperature, and so on.
如果说小区内有人封闭式管理而延误病情，直接管理者应该负责。
If people in a small area are closed management and delay the disease, the direct management should be responsible.
中国人民大学公共管理学院教授刘鹏则指出，地方政府升级防控措施要有依据，不能过度反应。
Liu Peng, a professor at the School of Public Administration at Renmin University of China, said local governments should be well advised not to overreact.
依据在于发现确诊案例或者确诊数量多，各地政府要出台相关内容对市民进行提示，否则不仅造成生活不便，还可能导致心理恐慌。
Based on the discovery of confirmed cases or a large number of confirmed cases, local governments should issue relevant content to inform the public, otherwise not only cause inconvenience to life, but may also lead to psychological panic.
除了封闭小区，有些单位还通过抗疫、开会等形式进行抗疫。
In addition to the closed areas, some units through the fight against the epidemic, meetings and other forms of anti-epidemic.
刘鹏提醒，防控既不能一刀切、简单粗暴，也不能形式主义。
Liu Peng reminded that prevention and control can not be uniform, simple and brutal, nor formalism.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国多地小区发“出入证”限制进出次数，专家：有法律依据，应注意尺度。
Many small areas throughout the country to issue "pass" to limit the number of access, experts: there is a legal basis, should pay attention to the scale.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全国多地小区发“出入证”限制进出次数，专家：有法律依据，应注意尺度";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "小区封闭式管理，是社区切断病毒的好办法，加强社区管理没有错，但是封闭小区的具体措施是值得考虑的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; neighbourhood management is a good way for a community to cut off viruses. There is nothing wrong with strengthening community management, but specific measures to close communities are worth considering.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
