武汉“外卖老哥”：我们的存在是种安慰。
Wuhan "take-out": our existence is a kind of comfort.
阳关  闻夏。
Yangguan Wen Xia.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
撰文 |阳关 摄影 | 闻夏“ 老计说，在外人眼中武汉现在是座空城，但每一个房间后面，都是一个个活生生的生命，他们都在等着武汉一天天变好。
Ran Xia says Wuhan is now seen by outsiders as an empty city, but behind every room are living creatures waiting for Wuhan to improve day by day.
”送外卖的老计被关注，居然是因为这场波及全国的疫情。
Old-fashioned takeaway plans have come to the fore because of the epidemic that has spread across the country.
最早，他在微博上被人发现。
He was first spotted on Twitter.
他给自己取了个名号——“外卖老哥”，每天更新封城后的武汉生活，点点滴滴，写日常小事儿，挺温暖的，一下就吸引了很多网友。
He gave himself a name - "take out", every day to update the life of Wuhan after the closure of the city, bit by bit, write daily small things, very warm, soon attracted many netizens.
武汉封了城，医生吃热饭成了问题，只能吃泡面。
Wuhan sealed the city, the doctor to eat hot rice has become a problem, can only eat noodles.
老计决定开工。
The old planner decided to start.
他和其他外卖兄弟，穿着鲜艳的黄，像摆渡人，在武汉空荡荡的大街上疾行，从这儿到那儿，继续维持着这座城的运转。
He and the other take-out brothers, dressed in bright yellow, like ferrymen, raced down the empty Wuhan streets, from where they continued to run the city.
2020年2月11日，武汉，每天开工前，老计都会对外卖箱进行消毒。
February 11, 2020, Wuhan, every day before the start of the old plan will be sold to the external disinfection box.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计在口罩上写下使用当天的日期。
On Feb. 11, 2020, Wuhan, the old planner wrote down the date of use of the mask.
2020年2月11日，武汉，外卖骑手每天测量体温，并记录在“骑手安心卡”上，佩戴在胸前。
Wuhan, Feb. 11, 2020, take-out riders take their body temperature daily and record it on their riders' comfort cards, wearing them on their chests.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计（右二）和其他外卖兄弟在外卖站点内等待开工。
Wuhan, February 11, 2020, the old plan (second right) and other take-out brothers in the take-out site waiting to start.
除夕一过，老计就开工了。
As soon as New Year's Eve passed, the old plan began.
开工的第一单去了武汉大学中南医院，第二单是武昌医院，都是发热病人收治点。
Start the first single to Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, the second only Wuchang Hospital, are febrile patients admission point.
两个单子都在同一家餐馆订了鲍鱼饭。
Both lists ordered abalone rice at the same restaurant.
大部分外卖员不敢去医院，老计不怕。
Most take-out workers are afraid to go to the hospital.
他身上长着一股荆楚人惯有的“匪气”。
He has a kind of "gangster" in his body.
他总说，没那么可怕啊。
It's not that terrible, he would say.
然后在微博上告诉网友，这两个医院超负荷运转，医生顶不容易。
Then told netizens on microblog, these two hospitals are overloaded operation, the doctor is not easy.
日头照常升了又落，老计也就照常给武汉人送餐。
As usual, the sun rose and fell, and the old plan was to deliver meals to the Wuhan people as usual.
过去，武汉喧闹得很，车啊人啊，道上常常水泄不通。
In the past, Wuhan noisy, ah, ah, the road is often full of traffic.
老计这样的外卖小哥，一整天都要连轴转。
Old plan such a take-out brother, all day long have to work in tandem.
现在的武汉，路上冷清清，顶多有些医用车辆和物资运输车在跑。
Wuhan, now, the road is deserted, at most some medical vehicles and supplies in the run.
路宽了，过去四十分钟送到的单，现在十分钟就送到了。
The road was wide, and the orders of the past forty minutes were delivered in ten minutes.
封城后，餐馆少了，叫单的人也少了，人们宁愿躲在家里自己做饭吃。
After the closure of the city, there are fewer restaurants and fewer people to order, people would rather hide at home to cook their own meals.
但老计依旧忙叨叨的。
But the old planner kept talking.
封城第四天，有一单外卖的备注，说家里没存粮了，托他买生鸡蛋。
On the fourth day of the city, there was a note saying that there was no food in the house and he was asked to buy raw eggs.
还有一单，让他跑腿帮送，备注里写“妈妈做的饭给爸爸送去，爸爸是前线医生，辛苦外卖小哥了。
Another one, let him run errands, notes to write: "Mom made the food sent to Dad, father is the front-line doctor, hard take out brother.
”老计看得想流眼泪。
The old plan wept with tears.
微博上也有不少粉丝私下找他。
There are also many fans on Weibo looking for him in private.
有个女孩向他求助，说自己咳嗽了，自我隔离，很无助很害怕。
A girl asked him for help, saying she had coughed, isolated herself, and was helpless and afraid.
老计不晓得怎么安慰她，就把她的求助信息发上了微博。
Old plan does not know how to comfort her, send her help message on Weibo.
全国各地成千上万的网友发来鼓励和支持，老计截了图，转发给女孩。
Thousands of netizens from all over the country sent encouragement and support, the old scheming, forwarded to the girl.
他不知道自己该说什么，就出门帮女孩买了药，送到她的小区楼下。
He didn't know what to say, so he went out and bought some medicine for the girl and took it downstairs to her neighborhood.
还有人找老计买菜、买药。
Some people look for old plans to buy vegetables, medicine.
有次他跑了十几个药房，帮一位武汉的母亲寻找温度计和消毒水，实在买不到，买了一大包蔬菜安慰她。
Once he went to a dozen pharmacies to help a Wuhan mother find a thermometer and disinfectant, but could not buy a large bag of vegetables to comfort her.
有好几天早晨，他跟武汉的大爷大妈一块儿在超市抢大白菜，动作慢些，连菜叶子也找不到了。
On a few days of morning, he and the uncle and aunt Wuhan together in the supermarket to grab cabbage, slow action, even the leaves can not be found.
有时老计也会迷茫，不知道自己能做什么，不能做什么。
Sometimes the old plan will be confused, do not know what they can do, can not do.
有一回，他看到有个老人在路上打车，一直打不到，老人状态看着不好。
Once he saw an old man taking a taxi on the road. He couldn't fight and the old man looked bad.
换做平时，老计肯定要送她，但在这个特殊时期，他只能低头默默走开。
In other words, the old plan must give her, but in this special period, he had to bow his head and walk away silently.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计在手机上接单。
Wuhan, February 11, 2020, the old plan to receive orders on the mobile phone.
老计送单，口罩戴得严实。
Old plan delivers bill, mask is worn tight.
他时刻提着神，送餐走楼梯，按电梯用车钥匙。
He carried God around all the time, taking the stairs and pressing the elevator car keys.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计接到一单去药房取货的订单。
February 11, 2020, Wuhan, Lao Yi received a single order to the pharmacy to pick up the goods.
目前平台的订单，基本上都是配送酒店或者一些小区。
At present, the platform's orders are basically distribution hotels or some small areas.
2020年2月11日，武汉，疫情期间，老计经常穿梭于武汉市的各个药房之间。
February 11, 2020, Wuhan, during the epidemic, the old plan often shuttle between Wuhan city pharmacies.
今天的订单主要购买感冒药和眼药水。
Today's order is for cold medicine and eye drops.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计在药店内取货，店员大多会明显与外卖员保持一定的安全距离，避免正面接触。
On February 11, 2020, Wuhan, the old plan to pick up goods in pharmacies, shop assistants will obviously and take away to maintain a certain distance from the safety, avoid direct contact.
老计是去年夏天来武汉的，39岁了，开始送外卖。
Old plan came to Wuhan last summer, 39 years old, began to deliver takeaway.
在这之前，他当过服务员，干过广告行业，被骗过，创业也失败了，于是开始重新思考人生。
Before that, he had worked as a waitress, had been in the advertising industry, had been cheated, had failed to start a business, and had begun to rethink his life.
老计是湖北十堰人，在武汉上过四年大学。
Old plan is Hubei Shiyan people, in Wuhan after four years of university.
以前他对武汉的印象不太好，它像个大乡镇，一直在建设，灰蒙蒙的，道上总是坑坑洼洼。
Before, his impression of Wuhan is not very good, it is like a big township, has been building, gray, the road is always pock-marked.
老计晕车，每次坐车晃晃悠悠，晕得一塌糊涂。
The old plan carsick, each time the car wobbles, faints badly.
大学一毕业，老计就离开了武汉。
As soon as he graduated from college, Old Planning left Wuhan.
十堰、深圳、广州、重庆，全国各地折腾一番，又回了武汉。
Shiyan, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Chongqing, all over the country toss, and back to Wuhan.
老计玩笑，自己不喜欢武汉，但冥冥之中又离不开武汉。
Old plan joke, oneself do not like Wuhan, but imperceptible and inseparable from Wuhan.
他的亲朋好友都在这儿。
His friends and relatives are here.
又回到武汉后，老计就开了微博，记录在这个江城送外卖的生活点滴，好的孬的，他想起来就记上一笔。
Back in Wuhan, old plan opened a micro-blog, recorded in this river city to take away the life drops, good bad, he remembered one.
1月23日，武汉封了城。
On January 23, Wuhan closed the city.
老计想，得记录点什么。
The old plan is to write something down.
他写微博挺勤快。
He is diligent in writing microblogging.
在他笔下，武汉冷冷清清，门关了，店闭了，但温度依然不减。
In his writings, Wuhan is cold and clear, the door is closed, the shop is closed, but the temperature still does not decrease.
经常有人下单给医生送外卖，打电话喊他给医生“送份海鲜饭咯”“买点果子咯”。
Often someone orders a doctor to take away and calls him to "give the doctor a seafood meal." "Buy some fruit.
有天夜里，他的电动车坏了，推了三公里走路回家。
One night, his electric car broke down and walked three kilometers home.
终于快走到小区，停下抽了根烟，头顶突然响起一阵齐喊“武汉加油”。
Finally quickly walked to the community, stopped to smoke a cigarette, head suddenly sounded a chorus shouted "Wuhan refueling."
他没忍住，眼眶湿了。
He couldn't contain himself and his eyes were wet.
老计上微博记了这一笔：“麻蛋，烟熏了眼睛！”2020年2月11日，武汉，老计按导航路线配送，发现路被封掉了，隔离墙上贴着封路通知。
On February 11, 2020, in Wuhan, the old planner distributed along the navigation route and discovered that the road had been sealed and road closures placed on the wall.
经过询问，老计绕了一大圈才完成配送。
After the inquiry, the old circle before the completion of distribution.
2020年2月11日，武汉，疫情期间，绕路配送是常有的事。
On February 11, 2020, Wuhan, during the epidemic, detour distribution is common.
2020年2月11日，武汉，老计拎着一袋药品准备进入居民楼，放在家门口。
February 11, 2020, Wuhan, old plan with a bag of medicine ready to enter residential buildings, put in front of their homes.
现在的订单以购买药品和生活用品为主。
Orders are now based on the purchase of medicines and daily necessities.
2020年2月11日，武汉，居民需要下楼来取件，全程进行无接触式配送。
February 11, 2020, Wuhan, residents need to go downstairs to pick up the parts, the entire process of contact-free distribution.
老计说，在外人眼中武汉现在是座空城，但每一个房间后面，都是一个个活生生的生命，他们都在等着武汉一天天变好。
Old plan, in the eyes of outsiders Wuhan is now an empty city, but behind each room, is a living life, they are waiting for Wuhan day by day become better.
有时他也想，现在街上流动的那些黄色，送什么都不重要，外卖小哥的存在是种安慰，他们在证明“武汉不是座空城！”。
Sometimes he thought that the yellow color that flows through the streets now doesn't matter, and the existence of the take-out boy is a comfort, proving that "Wuhan is not an empty city!"
春节期间有一阵，武汉连下了好几天雨。
During the Spring Festival, it rained in Wuhan for several days.
好不容易出了太阳，天空澄蓝，老计骑着车在太阳底下晃悠，绕了几圈，发现一家可以过早的店，有热干面吃。
When the sun came out and the sky was blue, the old man was walking around in the sun several times and found a shop that was too early to eat hot, dry noodles.
老计钻进去，吃了一大碗。
The old man dived in and ate a big bowl.
吃完面，他在微博上写：“武汉人只要能吃上热干面，那就都不是事儿！”2020年2月11日，武汉，老计骑车行驶在武汉长江二桥前。
After eating noodles, he wrote on a microblog: "Wuhan people as long as they can eat hot and dry noodles, that is not the case!" February 11, 2020, Wuhan, veteran cyclists ride in front of the Wuhan Yangtze River Erqiao.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“外卖老哥”：我们的存在是种安慰。
Wuhan "take-out": our existence is a kind of comfort.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“外卖老哥”：我们的存在是种安慰";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "老计说，在外人眼中武汉现在是座空城，但每一个房间后面，都是一个个活生生的生命，他们都在等着武汉一天天变好。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Old Guy says Wuhan is now seen by outsiders as an empty city, but behind every room are living creatures waiting for Wuhan to get better every day.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
