方舱医院的上海医生：预计很快有人出院。
Doctor Shanghai of Fang Cao Hospital: Some people are expected to be discharged soon.
刘素楠。
Liu Su-nan.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院记者：刘素楠 编辑：徐菲“ 大多数病人都比较稳定，多数患者只需药物治疗甚至可以不服药物。
Photograph: Tongji University Affiliated Oriental Hospital Journalist: Liu Su-nan, editor: Xu Fei, most patients are relatively stable, most of the patients only need medicine treatment or even against the drug.
”2月9日下午2点至次日凌晨，武汉客厅方舱医院B区来了百余位患者。
From 2 p.m. on February 9 to the early morning of the next day, more than 100 patients arrived at section B of the Wuhan living room hospital.
他们一批批从大巴上下来，进入舱内，医护人员的工作量瞬间剧增，一位医生要独自完成平日里住院医师和主治医师两个人的工作。
As they descend from buses and enter the cabin, the workload of medical staff jumps, a doctor to complete the day-to-day resident and attending physicians work alone.
在B区值班的医生华晶来自上海，他是同济大学附属东方医院呼吸内科医生、中国国际应急医疗队（上海）队员。
The doctor on duty in Area B, Hua Jing, a respiratory physician at the Oriental Hospital affiliated with Tongji University and a member of the China International Emergency Medical Team (Shanghai), is from Shanghai.
2月4日，这支55人的医疗队从上海出发，增援武汉。
On February 4, the 55-member medical team set out from Shanghai to reinforce Wuhan.
2月7日晚，救援队正式进驻武汉客厅方舱医院，开始收治患者。
February 7 night, the rescue team officially entered the Wuhan living room cabin hospital, began to accept patients.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院华晶的工作是完成患者病情的评估、病历的书写、医嘱的开具以及所有病人的安抚和特殊病情的处理。
Source: The work of Huajing, an affiliated Oriental Hospital of Tongji University, is to complete the evaluation of the patient's illness, the writing of medical records, the drawing up of medical orders and the pacification of all patients and the handling of special cases.
9日当晚一个班下来，他收治了30多名患者，加上前一个班次，前后共收治了60多位新患者，同时他还要处理管辖区域内200余位患者的突发状况。
On the evening of the 9th, he admitted more than 30 patients, plus the previous shift, and admitted more than 60 new patients, as well as attending to the emergencies of more than 200 patients in his jurisdiction.
2月4日，武汉开始征用11家场馆改造成“方舱医院”，上海医疗队所在的武汉客厅方舱医院将床位隔断为ABCD四个区，“跟A区相比，B区的防护设施更齐全了，以前我们A区还自己准备长筒鞋套，在B区武汉已备好了，我们的防护设备还是够的。
On February 4, Wuhan began to requisition 11 stadiums to be converted into "Fang Cao Hospital." The Wuhan living room hospital, where the Shanghai Medical Team is located, has partitioned the beds into four ABCD districts.
”华晶介绍道。
"said Hua Jing.
新冠肺炎患者分成四个类型：轻症、普通、重症、危重，方舱医院原则上只收前两种患者。
New crown pneumonia patients are divided into four types: mild, ordinary, severe, critical, in principle, only the first two types of patients.
目前，武汉客厅方舱医院的ABC三区可收治患者1500余人，每个区每班安排6-8名医生、16名护士在岗。
At present, the ABC III area of Wuhan living room hospital can take in more than 1500 patients, with 6-8 doctors and 16 nurses per shift in each district.
华晶医生绘制方舱医院图。
Doctor Hua Jing draws the plan of the cabin hospital.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院9日是华晶医生第二次入舱。
Photo: Tongji University attached to the Oriental Hospital on the 9th is the second time Dr. Hua Jing cabin.
2月8日他首次入舱，收治了约25位患者，这次收治了约35名。
On February 8, he made his first infusion, treating about 25 patients, this time about 35.
一晚的工作结束后，他感触颇深，“跟A区相比，B区进来的病人数量大且速度快，‘嗡——’地涌入B区后，患者四处走动，护士长用高音喇叭劝导，请患者坐在床边等待问诊，但效果并不明显。
After an evening's work, he was struck by the fact that "the number and speed of patients entering Area B was large and fast compared to Area A, and the patients were moving about, with the matron using a megaphone, asking the patient to sit by the bed and wait for treatment, but the effect was not obvious.
”同时，他也坦言，因部分新上岗的医护人员还在熟悉环境，加上B区内两名医生共用一台电脑，现场工作仍显杂乱。
He also admitted that the scene was still cluttered because some of the new staff were still familiar with the environment and because two doctors in Area B shared a computer.
“如何更有效地管理这种大客厅式病区？”华晶说，他想建议武汉防疫指挥部，不仅要加强医护对流程和系统的熟悉，还要发动群众，让患者学会自我管理，而自我管理要做的第一件事就是不要乱走动。
"How to manage this large living room-like area more effectively?" Hua Jing said he wanted to suggest that Wuhan Preventive Command not only strengthen medical staff's familiarity with the process and system, but also mobilize the masses to let patients learn self-management, and the first thing to do with self-management is not to walk about.
不让患者乱走，有几层原因。
There are several reasons why patients should not be allowed to wander.
一是方舱里有数百上千人，留给患者走动的空间很小。
First, there were hundreds of thousands of people in the cabin, leaving little room for patients to move about.
如果患者到处走动，医生护士由于穿上了隔离服视野只有90度（平时是108度），难免碰撞患者，有可能造成服装破损，风险很大。
If the patient is walking around, the doctor nurse, with an isolation suit only 90 degrees (108 degrees normal), is unable to avoid colliding with the patient, potentially causing a breakage of the garment and posing a high risk.
再者，乱走动也耽误问诊，医生问诊的时候患者不在床位上，或者问完后却发现患者并没有在护士处登记，就容易造成漏诊、重复诊断。
Moreover, the disorder also delays consultation, the doctor when the patient is not in bed, or after the inquiry found that the patient did not register with the nurse, easy to cause missed diagnosis, repeated diagnosis.
此外，方舱的整个区域被分为污染区、缓冲区、清洁区，患者和医护各有不同的出入口。
In addition, the entire area of the capsule is divided into contaminated areas, buffer zones, clean areas, and different entrances and exits for patients and care.
患者要避免进入清洁区，否则有可能引发清洁区中的医护人员感染，导致非战斗性减员。
Patients should avoid entering the cleaning area, which could cause infection among health care workers in the cleaning area, leading to non-combatant attrition.
准备收治病人的方舱医院。
To prepare for the treatment of the cabin hospital.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院华晶医生注意到，B病区里每一个小隔间共有12名病人，其中往往有两三名年轻的白领患者，他们大多个人素养不错，且有管理经验，“把他们选成寝室长，这样医护抓头羊，管理就方便多了。
Photo: Dr. Hua Jing, an affiliated Oriental Hospital in Tongji University, notes that there are 12 patients in each cubicle in the B-ward, often two or three young white-collar patients, most of whom are well-educated and experienced managers.
”同华晶医生并肩作战的，是同济大学附属东方医院呼吸内科医生、中国国际应急医疗队（上海）队员赵黎明。
Along with Dr Hua Jing, Zhao Dawn, a respiratory physician at the Oriental Hospital affiliated with Tongji University and a member of the China International Emergency Medical Team (Shanghai).
2月9日也是他第二次进舱，从下午2点开始，一直工作到晚上9点半。
On 9 February, he entered the cabin for the second time, starting at 2 p.m. and working until 9.30 p.m.
“穿上这套防护服，手脚就是笨笨的。
"My hands and feet are all thumbs in this suit.
”他说。
'he said.
他说，这是中国当代史上第一次建立的“通铺式”医院。
He said it was the first time in Chinese contemporary history that a "paved" hospital had been established.
每位患者分发了一件保暖军大衣，食物是免费的，按需索取。
Each patient was given a warm military coat and the food was free on demand.
截至2月10日，方舱医院已收治1213名患者，数字还在快速增长。
As of February 10, Fang Cao Hospital had treated 1,213 patients, and the number was growing rapidly.
自从进入方舱，赵黎明已接诊了42名患者，轻症占30%，普通型占70%。
Since entering the cabin, Zhao Dawn has treated 42 patients, 30% for mild cases and 70% for ordinary ones.
所谓“普通型”，是指那些CT有病变，临床症状轻微的患者。
The so-called "ordinary" refers to those patients with CT lesions, mild clinical symptoms.
“武汉人民真不容易！”赵黎明感慨。
"Wuhan people really not easy!" Zhao Lai Lai feeling.
在他接诊的患者中，有一位24岁的小伙子。
Among the patients he treated was a 24-year-old boy.
他外婆感染新冠肺炎后已经离世，母亲感染后在另外一家医院住院，他和父亲进入了方舱医院。
His grandmother died of pneumonia and his mother was hospitalized in another hospital after contracting the infection. He and his father entered the cabin hospital.
“我刚接触时，小伙子情绪低落，我一边去安慰一边打听他妈妈的情况，晚上小伙子听说妈妈情况好转后，情绪开始好起来了。
"When I first got in touch with him and the guy was depressed, I went to comfort him and asked about his mother, and that night he started to feel better when he heard his mother was getting better.
”赵黎明说。
"said Zhao Dawn.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院护士没有输液的工作，一般不需要照顾患者生活，故而护理操作少一些，但维持秩序的工作在初期较重。
Source: Eastern Hospital nurses attached to Tongji University do not have infusion work, generally do not need to take care of patients, so less nursing operations, but the maintenance of order in the early work.
2月10日，按照应收尽收的原则，方舱医院收治了不少65岁以上的患者，之后生活护理的工作将变重。
On 10 February, in accordance with the principle of best collection, the Fang Cao Hospital admitted a number of patients over 65 years of age, after which the work of life care would become heavier.
赵黎明发现，入住的患者以普通型肺炎居多，交叉感染、聚集性发病居多，病程比较长，一般超过两周。
Zhao dawn found that the majority of patients check-in to common pneumonia, cross-infection, concentrated disease more than the course of disease, generally more than two weeks.
因此，他建议加大调配医护人员和医疗设备的力度，“只有应收尽收，才有可能遏制武汉疫情蔓延的势头”。
Therefore, he proposed to increase the deployment of medical personnel and equipment, "only the receivable, it is possible to curb the spread of the epidemic in Wuhan."
同济大学附属东方医院药学部药剂师、中国国际应急医疗队（上海）队员黄国鑫在到达武汉后，就进入方舱医院内的药房开始忙碌。
Since his arrival in Wuhan, Huang Guoxin, a pharmacist in the pharmacy department of Tongji University affiliated with Oriental Hospital and a member of the China International Emergency Medical Team (Shanghai), went into the pharmacy inside the Fangcao Hospital.
“武汉人民太苦了！希望他们早点好起来！”从2月9日晚8点到2月10日早8点，一个大夜班，黄国鑫在药房就入了超过1500袋汤剂，每袋200毫升，“中药用来抗病毒，是汤剂，当天熬制当天分发到方舱里。
"The people of Wuhan are so bitter! Hope they get well early!" From 8pm on Feb. 9 to 8am on Feb. 10, Huang Guoxin put in more than 1500 bags of decoction at the pharmacy.
”药剂师的工作除了满足方舱内患者的需求，还要负责医护人员的日常用药，“我们是12小时一班，做一休一，但休一时也会工作。
The pharmacist's job is not only to meet the needs of patients in the square, but also to take care of the doctors and nurses' daily medication.
人手紧，任何时间队员有不舒服，我们随叫随到。
People are tight, any time the team members have discomfort, we are on call.
”黄国鑫说。
"said Huang.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院药师团队由十人组成，人员来自各省市国家紧急医学救援队，由陕西队药师廉江平担任组长。
Photo: Tongji University attached to the Oriental Hospital pharmacy team of 10 people, from the provincial and municipal emergency medical rescue team, led by Shaanxi team pharmacist Lianjiang Ping.
由于药品都是从不同地方紧急调拨的，寻找起来困难，也无规律性。
As medicines are allocated from different places on an emergency basis, finding them is difficult and irregular.
此前，黄国鑫和药师团队一起整理药房，安装冰箱组件，手工绘制药品分布图。
Earlier, Huang Guoxin and the team of pharmacists together to tidy pharmacies, install refrigerator components, hand-drawn drug distribution.
由于长时间戴口罩，黄国鑫的腮帮、鼻梁上留下了一条宽宽长长的勒痕。
As a result of long wearing masks, Huang Guoxin's parotid, nose beam left a wide, long leash.
他说，救援队就是战时的样子，“快速集结、快速进入战斗状态，快速获得战场的主动权、控制权，我们上海东方医院国家紧急医学救援队长期以来就是这样训练的，所以药品分类归档的技能也能迅速派上用场。
He said the rescue team is the wartime appearance, "rapid assembly, rapid entry into combat status, quickly to gain the initiative, control of the battlefield, we Shanghai Oriental Hospital National Emergency Medical Rescue Team has long been trained, so the skills of drug classification archiving can quickly come into use.
”随着方舱医院的投入使用，总还有好消息传来。
As the cabin hospital came into use, there was always good news.
据华晶医生介绍，截至2月10日，大多数病人都比较稳定，多数患者只需药物治疗甚至可以不服药物。
As of February 10, most patients were fairly stable, and most needed only medication and could even disagree with their medication, according to Dr Hua.
药师团队。
The team of pharmacists.
图片来源：同济大学附属东方医院“不服药的患者，是早期服用过，或服药快结束了。
Source: Tongji University attached to the Oriental Hospital "do not take medicine patients, is early to take, or near the end of the drug.
还有就是局部感染了，且在转好。
And there's a local infection, and it's getting better.
”他预计舱内很快就有病人可以出院，但需要符合两次复查核酸阴性以及影像学检查好转的条件。
He expects patients to be released shortly, subject to two negative reviews of nucleic acid and better imaging.
华晶值班时遇到过一位年纪稍长的女性患者。
While on duty, Hua met a woman who was a little older.
看到病历之后，他问诊提的所有问题都和患者的症状相符，他甚至知道患者家中养鸟。
After seeing his medical record, all the questions he asked were consistent with the patient's symptoms, and he even knew that the patient kept a bird in his home.
这让患者本人对眼前的上海医生佩服不已，本来女儿联系好汉口医院的床位，她却不打算再转走。
This allows the patient to the eyes of the Shanghai doctor admire, originally daughter contact Hankou Hospital bed, she did not plan to move away.
“遇到神医了！”她对隔壁病友说。
"Encountered the doctor!" she said to her sick friend next door.
在收治患者的过程中，华晶发现“有个别患者进来之后又想出去的。
In the course of receiving patients, Hua Jing found that "a few patients came in and wanted to go out.
我问他，他说他害怕。
I asked him, and he said he was afraid.
”但他也欣慰地看到一些入舱患者很乐观，“发病早的、时间长的患者会给刚刚发病的新人讲述自己的故事、体会，听得病友一会儿开心大笑、一会儿紧蹙眉头。
But he is also pleased to see that some cabin patients are optimistic: "Early, long-term sufferers will tell their stories and stories to new patients who are newly ill, listening to their sick friends laughing and frowning.
看着高声说话的老病友，新来的患者也会对我们说，‘看他，生了那么久的病，现在还是活蹦乱跳的，个把马的老子凭么事吓不过（武汉话：凭什么害怕）！’”“这场战役的成功，除了必不可少的医护人员，患者更是核心力量。
Looking at the old patient who was talking aloud, the new comer would say to us, 'Look at him, after so long a illness, he is still alive and kicking, and the old man on horseback is scared out of his wits (Wuhan: Whats the fright)!
如果每位患者都能够做到对自己负责、对集体负责、对医护负责，那这场众志成城的战役，一定能够打赢。
If every patient is accountable to himself, to the community, to health care, then this battle of the minds of men will be won.
”他说。
'he said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院的上海医生：预计很快有人出院。
Doctor Shanghai of Fang Cao Hospital: Some people are expected to be discharged soon.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "方舱医院的上海医生：预计很快有人出院";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "大多数病人都比较稳定，多数患者只需药物治疗甚至可以不服药物。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Most patients are fairly stable, and most require only medications or even medications.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
