购物中心经历疫情大考，运营商与租户携手自救。
Shopping centers experience the epidemic test, operators and tenants to help themselves.
张子怡。
Zhang Ziyi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：张子怡“ 行业自救，保证经营稳定，扛过疫情。
Reporter: Zhang Ziyi "industry self-help, ensure stable operation, carry the epidemic."
”从小年夜开始，家居龙头红星美凯龙旗下商场暂停了营业，开始春节休假。
"From the small beginning, home faucet Hongxing Meikailong store suspended business, began the Spring Festival holiday.
但疫情袭来，让他们的开业时间一推再推。
But the outbreak has hit, pushing back their opening hours.
红星美凯龙最初的计划是1月29日恢复营业，由于疫情形势愈发严峻，开业时间先是延期至2月15日后，最新的通知是暂定为2月29日开业。
The company's initial plan was to resume operations on January 29, which was initially postponed until after February 15 and was tentatively set to open on February 29 because of the increasingly dire situation.
受疫情影响的不仅有家居卖场，即便能正常开门营业的大型商场，人流量也是骤降。
Affected by the epidemic are not only home stores, even if the normal opening of large shopping malls, traffic is also plummeting.
大年初二，深圳华润万象城还有戴着口罩的行人闲逛，餐饮店空空如也，时装店里倒有不少人在兴致勃勃的挑选衣服。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, people in Vientiane, Shenzhen, wear masks, restaurants are empty, there are a lot of people in the fashion shop are interested in the selection of clothes.
到了2月3日，万象城开始缩短营业时间，不少店铺甚至直接选择短期闭店。
By February 3, Vientiane began to shorten business hours, many shops even directly choose short-term closure.
从春节到现在，已有越来越多的购物中心选择缩短营业时间，甚至在官方公号中号召：宅在家里更安全。
Since the Spring Festival to the present, more and more shopping centers have chosen to shorten business hours, even in the official call: Home is safer.
疫情冲击下，被按下暂停键的不止是城市的车水马龙，还有购物中心的簇拥人潮。
Under the impact of the epidemic, it is not only the traffic in the city that has been suspended, but also the crowds in shopping malls.
全联房地产商会商业地产工作委员会发布《购物中心行业抗击疫情专项调查报告》指出，2020年春节期间，几乎所有购物中心的客流和销售额都在大幅度下滑。
Almost all shopping centers experienced a sharp drop in passenger and sales during the 2020 Spring Festival, according to the report of the Commercial Property Work Committee of the All-Union Real Estate Association.
“减租”成为多数商业地产运营商与商户共克时艰的重要方式。
"Rent reduction" has become an important way for most commercial real estate operators to overcome difficulties with merchants.
“减租”之外，商业地产运营商们也在思考如何自救，有的趁势发展线上业务；有的则原地等待疫情结束，努力应对着复工潮后的防疫考验。
In addition to "rent cuts," commercial real estate operators are thinking about how they can help themselves, either by developing online services or by waiting for the end of the epidemic to cope with the epidemic as it returns to work.
自救与借势刘强已经在中国大家居教育平台上，听了两天的课程，学习的是“用半年时间抢全年业绩——家居老板打赢‘战疫’的六脉神剑。
Self-Help and Borrowing Power Liu Qiang has been listening to two days of classes on China's residential education platform, learning to "use half a year to seize the full-year results - home boss won the" plague "of the six-vein magic sword.
”他经营的家居店开业时间未定，担心未来业绩的他想听听营销老师传授的方法。
He runs a home store with an open date and wants to hear from his marketing teacher if he worries about future results.
该课程由红星美凯龙免费提供。
The course is offered free of charge by Red Star Macallon.
这家中国最大的家居卖场运营商在2月4日宣布免费开放“中国大家居教育平台”，希望利用市场目前的低潮期，让行业从业者正好学习下相关知识。
China's largest home-store operator announced on Feb. 4 that it would open its "platform for all Chinese people living in education" free of charge, hoping to capitalize on the current market downturn and give industry practitioners a chance to learn about it.
在这之前的2月2日，为减轻租户的损失，红星美凯龙宣布了免除符合条件的82家自营商场相关商户2020年度任意一月的租金及管理费。
Prior to that date, on February 2, to alleviate the tenant's losses, Red Star Magellan announced that it would waive the rent and management fee for any month of 2020 for 82 self-employed shop-related businesses.
这项减租规模超过5亿元。
The rent reduction is over $500 million.
红星美凯龙家居集团执行总裁兼大营运中心总经理朱家桂告诉界面新闻记者，“正式公告发布前，从1月28日开始，我们内部就开始讨论减租以及后续举措来应对疫情，希望能联合行业的上游、中游、下游共同抗击疫情。
"Since January 28, we have been discussing rent reduction and follow-up actions to deal with the epidemic, and we want to combine upstream, midstream and downstream parts of the industry to fight the epidemic," Zhu Jiagui, executive president and general manager of Red Star Mekailong Home Group, told UI News.
”除自营商场的减租措施外，红星美凯龙还与旗下委托管理商场的合作方进行沟通，希望合作方也能出“减租”政策，缓解商户压力。
In addition to the rent reduction measures for the self-employed, Red Star has also been in communication with its partners who have commissioned the management of the mall, hoping that they will also be able to offer "rent reduction" policies to ease the pressure on merchants.
“从目前的反馈来看，大部分合作方都能够理解也愿意支持‘减租’政策，具体情况后续我们会披露。
"From the feedback we have received so far, most partners understand and are willing to support the rent reduction policy," he said.
”朱家桂表示。
"said Zhu.
红星美凯龙呼吁上游工厂、品牌给经销商相应的帮扶，形成1+1+1的模式，共同扛过三个月困难时期。
Red Star Meikailong calls on upstream factories, brands to the corresponding assistance to dealers, form a 1 + 1 + 1 model, jointly carry through three months of difficulties.
具体的方式是，“商场方出一个月租金，工厂承担一个月的工资，经销商拿出一个月资金咬牙扛一个月。
In particular, "the mall pays a monthly rent, the factory pays a month's wages, and the dealer spends a month nibbling away for a month.
100天的时间，共同对抗疫情，市场能得到很好的稳定。
100 days to fight the epidemic together, the market can be very stable.
”截至2月12日，已有200家家居品牌企业参与对经销商的帮扶政策，有降低产品出厂价的企业，也有选择承担全国经销商导购一个月底薪的企业......对于面临资金流紧张的部分商户，红星美凯龙还在从融资端给予相应扶持。
By February 12, 200 home-brand companies had joined forces to help distributors, ranging from companies that cut factory prices to companies that choose to underwrite a month's worth of dealerships across the country.
他们旗下的供应链金融平台与中国农业银行上海分行和上海银行浦西分合作，长期为红星美凯龙商户提供优惠利率的信用贷款支持，为商户提供小微经营贷款总授信额达25亿元人民币。
Their supply chain finance platform, in collaboration with the Shanghai branch of the Agricultural Bank of China and the Shanghai branch of the Shanghai Bank, has long provided credit support at preferential interest rates to Red Star Mercantile Merchants.
此外，红星美凯龙还携手阿里巴巴、蚂蚁金服、网商银行等为商家提供全方位支持，包括线上销售支持、商家融资支持及利率优惠等，其中网商银行针对此次疫情专项提供15亿资金给予符合资格的商户流动资金支持。
In addition, Red Star Meikailong has joined hands with Alibaba, Ants Gold Clothing, Internet Business Bank, etc. to provide all-round support to businesses, including online sales support, merchant financing support and interest rate concessions.
阿里巴巴是美凯龙（601828.SH）的第三大股东。
Alibaba is the third largest shareholder in Mekalon (601828.SH).
“现在所有行业都很难，对于我们而言，一定要先实现行业自救，保证经营稳定，扛过疫情。
"All industries are very difficult now, for us, we must first achieve industry self-help, ensure stable operation, carry the epidemic.
等疫情结束，相信行业一定会迎来爆发性增长。
By the end of the epidemic, the industry is sure to usher in explosive growth.
”朱家桂说。
"said Zhu.
自救之外，红星美凯也在借势发展线上业务。
In addition to self-help, Red Star Mecca also in the development of online business.
“以前很多经销商没有发展线上业务的动力，但现在因为疫情，他们认识到线上的重要性，更加积极的同我们合作。
"Many dealers didn't have the power to develop online business before, but now because of the epidemic, they recognize the importance of the line and are working more actively with us."
”据朱家桂介绍，2020年2月3日至2月23日期间，他们的家具软装供应链平台“设计云”已面向红星美凯龙所有入驻商家，免费提供2个月云设计软件无限渲染功能。
Between February 3 and February 23, 2020, the design cloud, their furniture-soft-supply-chain platform, was available to all Hong Kong-based businesses, offering two months of free cloud-design software for unlimited rendering, Zhu said.
通过3D设计云的服务，提供线上做方案的能力，进行远程沟通。
Design cloud services in 3D to provide the ability to do solutions online and communicate remotely.
红星美凯龙还宣布在2月10日至4月10日期间将“筋斗云”免费向全家装、家居行业开放使用，帮助商家充分运用线上营销工具。
The company also announced plans to open its doors free of charge to the entire family and home sector between February 10 and April 10 to help businesses make full use of online marketing tools.
去年5月，阿里巴巴入股红星美凯龙后，美凯龙上线了天猫同城站，以上海、南京两大“家装同城站”为中心，以城市为维度，打造本地化家居建材旗舰店。
Last May, Alibaba took a stake in the Red Star Mekailong, Mekailong on-line with the city, to Shanghai, Nanjing, the two "home-mounted Tongcheng Station" as the center, with the city as the dimension, to build a local home building materials flagship store.
受此次疫情影响，朱家桂表示：“2020年红星美凯龙要建立覆盖全国的同城站，而且现在主动申请加入同城站的商户数量在不断增多。
"By 2020, the red star Michaelone will be building a city with nationwide coverage and the number of businesses that are now actively applying to join the city is increasing," Zhu said.
”与一些房企想要学李佳琦直播卖房相似，红星美凯龙也计划培养商场导购员，希望他们也能成为给家居卖场带货的网红主播。
Like some homeowners who want to learn from Li's live sales, Red Star plans to train shop stewards in the hope that they too will become Web anchormen bringing goods to home stores.
以往在“线上业务”方面投入极少的购物中心，如今也在想办法从线上为商户引客。
Shopping malls, which used to invest very little in "online business," are now trying to lure customers online.
深圳海雅缤纷城、卓悦汇、星河cocopark等商场的官方微信推送中，在为店铺做推广的同时，也加入商场导购员的微信二维码，称可进行“无接触配送”；深圳万象天地的公号则更新着可进行“无接触配送”的外卖商家名单；深圳卓悦中心的公号推送中，嵌入了商户的品牌公号以及小程序；天虹百货则推广自家小程序，号召线上购物.....“‘自救’肯定是我们的首要目标，在这之外，我们也希望国家能够出台帮扶政策，在税收、财政、金融等方面给予我们一些政策支持，度过艰难时期。
In the official micro-mail delivery of shopping malls such as Shenzhen Haiyan City, Zhuo Yuehui and Xing He Cocopark, the two-dimensional micro-mail code for shop assistants has been added to the "no contact distribution" list.
”朱家桂说道。
"said Zhu.
房地产咨询公司莱坊预计，除了业主对于零售商的优惠措施，政府及金融机构或将在减税、增加货币流动性、贷款展期等方面推出扶持政策，来帮助这些企业渡过难关。
In addition to owner-to-retailer incentives, the government and financial institutions may introduce supportive policies on tax cuts, increased liquidity and loan rollover to help them tide over difficulties, according to Laifang, a real estate consultancy.
借助“线上”自救，无论效果如何，都成为商业地产运营商面对特殊时期的不多办法。
With "online" self-help, no matter what the effect, commercial real estate operators face a special period of limited means.
随着各地开始有序复工，商业地产运营商的防疫压力将更大。
With the orderly resumption of work everywhere, commercial real estate operators will be more pressure to prevent disease.
复工后的防控考验“现在的订单可能要比平常减少98%吧，每天的主要工作不是做奶茶，而是做店铺的消毒工作，每隔一小时就会消毒一次，商场的工作人员每天都会来检查一次。
"Orders may now be down 98 percent from normal," he said. "Instead of making milk tea, the main daily task is to disinfect the shops, disinfecting them every hour, and the staff at the mall come to inspect them every day.
”深圳福田CBD一商场的奈雪的茶工作人员说道。
"ShenZhen Fukuda CBD a shopping mall's tea staff said.
疫情让定时消毒成为商场标配。
The outbreak has made regular disinfection standard in shopping malls.
凯德集团已经要求全国各项目启动应急流程、做好各项防疫措施。
The Cade Group has asked projects across the country to initiate emergency procedures and take preventive measures.
据凯德介绍，在商场中开展了一系列预防措施，包括组织相关人员培训、公共区域消杀、清洗空调滤网、发热排查、设立隔离间等，并准备了口罩、急救药箱、防护衣、测温枪、一次性手套等医疗应急物资，确保消费环境安全卫生。
According to Cade, a series of preventive measures were carried out in shopping malls, including training of relevant personnel, elimination of public areas, cleaning of air-conditioning filters, heat screening, installation of isolation rooms, and medical emergency supplies such as masks, first aid kits, protective clothing, thermostats and disposable gloves to ensure a safe and hygienic consumption environment.
依据世界卫生组织和国家卫健委的指南，凯德制定了成套的公共场所传染性疾病防控预案及流程。
Based on guidelines from the World Health Organization and the National Institutes of Health, Cade has developed a set of prevention and control plans and procedures for infectious diseases in public places.
拿隔离间举例，流程细化到隔离间位置、房间大小、通风模式、房间标志及配套设施、人员进出等各项要求，还有详细的检查表确保各项措施到位。
Take the example of the isolation room, where the process is broken down to the isolation room position, room size, ventilation mode, room sign and supporting facilities, access requirements, and a detailed checklist to ensure that measures are in place.
凯德旗下的商场，其中武汉、西安等城市的部分商场根据当地政府政策，实行闭店（其中超市照常营业）；全国其他地区的商场均缩短了营业时间，并允许租户根据自身情况选择继续营业或者申请暂时闭店。
Some stores in Wuhan, Xi'an and other cities have closed their stores in accordance with local government policies. Shopping malls in other parts of the country have shortened their opening hours and allowed tenants to choose to continue operating or apply for temporary closure, depending on their circumstances.
2月10日后，各地已陆续复工。
Work has resumed in various locations since 10 February.
但大型商场缩短营业时间、商家闭店的这些防疫措施仍在继续。
But large shopping malls shorten business hours, the business closed these epidemic prevention measures continue.
深圳多数商场的营业时间已调整为11:00-19:00，只有超市才会延长营业时间。
The opening hours of most shopping malls in Shenzhen have been adjusted to 11: 00-19: 00. Only supermarkets can extend their opening hours.
“拒绝聚餐”甚至成为部分商场的防疫口号。
"Refuse to dine" has even become the slogan of some shopping malls.
卓悦中心一家香港茶餐厅的工作人员告诉界面新闻：“虽然深圳企业复工了，但无论是堂食还是外卖，订单依然很少。
"Although Shenzhen enterprises are back to work, there are still very few orders, whether for lunch or take-out," a staff member at a Hong Kong tea restaurant told Interface News.
”东莞卓为城的策划部经理黄小娟表示：“我们从1月27日到2月9日，商场暂停营业，只有超市、便利店营业。
Huang Xiaojuan, director of planning for Dongguan Zhuowei City, said: "From January 27 to February 9, the mall was closed except for supermarkets and convenience stores.
2月10日复工后，公司员工也是分批上班，满足日常运营需要。
After resuming work on 10 February, the company's employees also worked in batches to meet their daily operational needs.
商家只有部分营业，全部商家的营业时间还未确定。
Businesses only partially open, the business hours of the entire business has not been determined.
”莱坊预计，受疫情影响，短期内由于零售商的扩张开店的需求有所放缓和延迟，将会导致零售商对于市场新建的购物中心开店的需求不足，致使新建购物中心的招商难度加大，招商中业主不得不提供更多优惠条件。
"Laifang predicts that the epidemic will slow and delay demand for new shops in the short term as retailers expand, leading to insufficient demand from retailers to open new shopping centres in the market, making it more difficult for new shopping centres to be opened and employers having to offer more favourable terms.
一些新建的购物中心的空置率预计会有所上升，这会导致一些在建购物中心项目减缓交付，市场供应有所减少。
Vacancy rates are expected to rise in some new shopping centres, which could slow delivery of some shopping centre projects under construction and reduce market supply.
此外，莱坊还预计部分仍在开店的零售商也会提出对其自身更为有利的租赁条件，而租金水平的谈判也面临较大的下行压力。
In addition, Laifang also expects some retailers who are still operating stores to offer more favourable terms to themselves, and negotiations on rental levels face greater downward pressure.
长期来看，零售商对于未来持续消费能力增长还是具有信心，预计在疫情得到控制后，零售商的扩张计划将会持续发展。
In the long run, retailers remain confident of continued consumer capacity growth and are expected to continue their expansion plans once the epidemic is under control.
奈雪的茶就在官方表示：2020年我们计划开更多的门店，深耕二三线城市。
'By 2020 we plan to open more stores and cultivate two or three-tier cities, 'Nessie's tea official said.
新的开店计划现在仍在按计划准备过程中，鉴于疫情影响，一季度开店进度会有一些延迟。
The new store opening plan is still on schedule, with some delay in the first quarter due to the impact of the epidemic.
我们时刻做好准备，在疫情过后迅速投入到正常运营中。
We are ready to move quickly into normal operation after the outbreak.
面对这场突如其来的疫情，商业地产运营商和零售商们都愿意携手自救。
In the face of this sudden outbreak, commercial real estate operators and retailers are willing to help themselves.
在严格的防疫工作中，等待“战疫”结束，期待车水马龙与簇拥人潮的那天。
In the strict epidemic prevention work, waiting for the end of the "epidemic," looking forward to the day of traffic and crowds.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
购物中心经历疫情大考，运营商与租户携手自救。
Shopping centers experience the epidemic test, operators and tenants to help themselves.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "购物中心经历疫情大考，运营商与租户携手自救";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Mall & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "行业自救，保证经营稳定，扛过疫情。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Industry helps itself, ensures stable operations, and carries the disease.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
