「经过这次，我最担心的是武汉人的心理创伤」。
"After this, I am most worried about the Wuhan people's psychological trauma."
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
据相关数据统计，春节前，有近500万人离开武汉，他们中有近30%的人离开湖北，他们或出差、或进行计划许久的旅行，或回家过年，但伴随着疫情的加剧，他们成了一群「不被欢迎的人」。
Before the Spring Festival, nearly five million people left Wuhan, nearly 30 percent of whom left Hubei province for business trips, long-planned trips, or New Year's Eve, but with the spread of the disease, they became an "undesirable group."
一位武汉的小学老师已经连续三年去厦门过年，但这个春节，她因为感冒发烧，也因为来自武汉，终日拉着箱子在厦门寻找可以收留她的酒店，即便医院开具的诊断证明证实她得的不是新冠肺炎；还有从武汉去三亚旅游的一家人，因为酒店不让续住，大年初二那一天，他们除了在肯德基小憩，一下午都待在车里。
Wuhan primary school teacher has been to Xiamen for three consecutive years, but this Spring Festival, because she had a cold fever, but also because from Wuhan, pulling boxes to find her hotel, even if the hospital issued a diagnosis certificate that she is not suffering from pneumonia, Sanya from Wuhan, because the hotel is not allowed to stay, they rest in KFC all afternoon.
……过去的几天，我们采访了大量离开武汉的人，他们多次提及的，令人印象最深刻的三句话分别是——「我们不是有意出来的，离开武汉时，我们并不知道疫情会这么严重。
In the past few days, we interviewed a large number of people who had left Wuhan and the three most impressive words they had mentioned on many occasions were, "We didn't mean to come out.
」「我们也是受害者，我们只是想回家。
"We're victims, too. We just want to go home.
」「武汉人的心理创伤，令人担心。
"Wuhan people's psychological trauma is worrying.
」以下是八个离开武汉的人的故事，他们中的大多都在这个春节经历了歧视、拒绝、信息泄露、举报、甚至驱赶、网络暴力，当然，也有善待——我们也记录了这个故事，我们希望从这个故事开始，这样的善待会越来越多。
The following are the stories of eight people who left Wuhan, most of whom experienced discrimination, rejection, information leaks, reports, even evictions, cyber violence and, of course, kindness during the Spring Festival - and we have recorded this story, and we hope that it will start with this story.
文｜翟锦 韩逸编辑｜金石图｜受访者供图（除署名外）居无定所朱迪 26岁代购我15号去欧洲旅行，25号回国之后，武汉机场已经关闭了，我们原地在机场散团。
+ yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + + + + + + + + + + + +, + + + + +, + +, + + + + + + +, + + + + + +, + +, + + + + + + + +, + +, + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + +, + +, + + + + + + +, +, + + + + +
我坐了十几个小时的火车，26号凌晨4点半赶到江西九江，想先住一宿，再通过长江大桥回武汉。
I took the train for more than ten hours. I arrived at Jiujiang River at 4: 30 a.m. on the 26th and wanted to stay for a night before returning to Wuhan through the Yangtze Bridge.
没想到接下来的七八个小时里，一连串的拒绝在等待我。
I didn't expect a succession of refusals to wait for me for the next seven or eight hours.
我先打电话给九江的七天连锁酒店订房间，对方听说是武汉回来的游客，直接拒绝了。
I called Jiujiang seven-day hotel chain to book a room, the other side heard that Wuhan tourists, directly refused.
汉庭也拒绝了。
Hanting refused, too.
我又换了一家本地的酒店，说没有问题，我坐车赶到后，前台女孩跟我说，经理不允许我住在这里。
I changed to a local hotel and said no problem. When I got there by bus, the girl at the front desk told me that the manager would not allow me to stay here.
我出不去城，又进不了店，只好打110寻求帮助。
Unable to get out of town or into the store, I had to call 110 for help.
这期间，我还打电话给了疾控中心报备自己的行程。
Meanwhile, I called the CDC to report on my trip.
他们回答好的，也没嘱咐别的。
They answered well, and gave no other orders.
20分钟后，民警来了，说做不了主，请当地居委会来看我的情况。
After 20 minutes, the police came, said can not be master, asked the local neighborhood committee to see my situation.
两小时后，居委会来了人，当时我已经十几个小时没有好好休息了，时差也没有完全倒好，又困又累。
Two hours later, the neighborhood committee arrived and I hadn't had a good rest for more than ten hours.
他们量了我的体温，37.1度。
They took my temperature. 37.1 degrees.
看到这个数字，那两个警察先是让我赶紧走，汇报完情况又不允许我擅自离开了，带我去了医院。
Seeing this number, the two policemen first told me to hurry to go, after reporting the situation and not allowing me to leave, took me to the hospital.
到了医院，所有检查的费用都是我自己出的，检查结果一切正常，可我仍然哪里也去不了。
When I got to the hospital, the cost of all the tests was my own, and the results were all right, but I still couldn't go anywhere.
我想让我爸开车到长江大桥的另一头接我，请警察把我送到长江大桥，「我自己走过去可以吧。
I want my father to pick me up at the other end of the Yangtze River Bridge and ask the police to take me to the Yangtze River Bridge.
」但长江大桥也封了，行人不能通过。
But the Yangtze River Bridge was also closed to pedestrians.
胸部CT报告结果后来，警察把我送到了救助中心，门口贴着一张公告，写着收容的对象：未成年人、乞讨者、无家可归的流浪汉……我越想越辛酸。
Chest CT Report Results Afterwards, the police took me to the drop-in center, where a notice was posted on the door. It said, "The minors, the beggars, the homeless vagabonds... the more poignant I became.
一进门，里面的人说话也像吵架，隔着口罩没有一点温度：「你是武汉来的，现在哪一个不怕武汉的。
Once inside, the people inside also like a quarrel, through the mask no temperature: "You are from Wuhan, which is not afraid of Wuhan.
」外面天下着雨，我背着一个包，拖着两个箱子，一屁股坐在里面的凳子上，只想他对我说话温柔些。
"It was raining outside, and I was carrying a bag and two suitcases and I was slumping down on a stool inside, wanting him to talk gently to me.
救助中心的住宿，外面有一道铁推拉门，进去之后排着几个房间，每个四张床，不允许带行李箱，就连随身带包也要寄存在外面。
There was an iron push-and-pull door outside the shelter, and after entering there were rooms, each with four beds, no luggage allowed. Even the carry-on bags had to be kept outside.
他们告诉我，一日三餐都有一个阿姨送来，免费吃住。
They told me that an aunt had brought all three meals a day for free.
我在他们要求我按手印办理入住的时候情绪失控了，眼泪往下掉，满肚子委屈。
I was feeling out of control when they asked me to check in with my fingerprints. Tears went down and my stomach swelled.
我好歹也去过十几个国家了，也不是住不起酒店，现在成了被收容的流浪人员了。
At any rate, I have been to a dozen countries, nor can I afford to stay in a hotel, now become a homeless shelter.
我在救助中心呆到11点多，不停地联系酒店，终于又找到了一家愿意让我入住的酒店。
I stayed at the drop-in center until more than 11: 00, kept contacting the hotel, and finally found a hotel willing to let me stay.
上了出租车，那个师傅听说我是武汉人，一个急刹车，从驾驶座跳了出去，往救助中心跑，问他们，「你们怎么搞了个武汉人在我车上？」在救助中心的担保下，他最终拉着我出发，一路数落武汉人吃野味，说全国人民都为你们变成现在这样。
When the master heard that I was from Wuhan, he jumped out of the driver's seat and ran to the rescue center, asking them, "How did you get a Wuhan man in my car?" With the help of the rescue center, he finally pulled me out and told the Wuhan people to eat the game, saying that the whole country had become what it is for you.
我已经没有力气跟他辩驳了，只想快一点赶到酒店。
I don't have the strength to argue with him anymore. I just want to get to the hotel quickly.
在新的酒店，凌晨的事情再一次上演，不让我住，但我实在是走不动了，跟他们说，我报过警了，也去过医院检查了，但酒店的人一定要带我去居委会量体温，结果我们去了，居委会说，没有体温计。
In the new hotel, I was refused permission to stay in the early hours of the morning, but I could not walk enough to tell them that I had called the police and had been examined by the hospital, but the people at the hotel had to take me to the neighborhood committee to take my temperature, so we went, the neighborhood committee said, no thermometer.
这时候已经是下午一点了，看我确实扛不住了，酒店就给我办了入住。
By this time it was one o'clock in the afternoon, I really can not carry it, the hotel for me to check in.
就这样，30个小时没吃没睡之后，我终于找到了一个暂时收留我的酒店。
So, after 30 hours without sleep, I finally found a hotel where I could stay for a while.
昨天，朋友开车来接我，走了很曲折的路线，我终于回家了，没有人再赶我了。
Yesterday, my friends came to pick me up, took a very tortuous route, I finally went home, no one to drive me.
个人信息泄露吴晴 23岁 医学生2019年12月31日，当时看到李文亮医生那个微信截图，还有肺炎病人的动态CT的片子，我就有注意戴口罩。
Personal information leaks Wu Qing 23-year-old medical student December 31, 2019, when I saw Dr. Lee Wenliang that micro-screenshots, as well as pneumonia patients dynamic CT film, I have to pay attention to wearing masks.
但当时李文亮被批评了，有很长时间里，我都没听到肺炎的消息。
But at that time, Li Wenliang was criticized, for a long time, I did not hear of pneumonia.
直到1月19号，大家讨论，哪个医院很多病人高热，医护人员感染，我很恐慌，当天我就在医院拍了CT，没有任何问题。
It was not until January 19th, when we discussed which hospital had a lot of patients with high fever and medical infection and I panicked. I took a CT scan at the hospital the same day.
1月21号我坐高铁回山东老家。
January 21st I took the high-speed train back to Shandong.
在火车上，我全程戴着口罩。
I wore a mask all the way on the train.
关于回家，其实还挺纠结的，怕把肺炎带给家人。
About going home, actually quite tangled, afraid to bring pneumonia to the family.
我当时还提议过年不串门，被群起攻之，我爸妈说我夸大其词，虚张声势，胡扯，造谣。
I also proposed not to visit the door, was attacked by the group, my parents said I exaggerate, bravado, bullshit, rumor.
回家那两天，我陆续听到一些医生被感染的消息，23号，就又去了县医院做体检。
Two days back home, I continued to hear that some doctors were infected, 23, and then went to the county hospital for a medical examination.
县医院的医生听说我是从武汉回来的，量了我的体温，是37.2，就让我隔离，我也是医学生，我知道37.2在医学上不算发热，37.3度才算，而且我有点甲亢，基础体温比较高。
The doctor at the county hospital heard that I had come back from Wuhan, took my temperature, was 37.2, let me isolate, I am also a medical student, I know 37.2 is not a medical fever, 37.3 degrees, and I have a hyperthyroidism, higher base temperature.
我跟他解释，但他仍然在我的病历上写了「发热」，还说我双肺呼吸音粗，但他并没有给我听诊，而且我CT和血常规都是正常的。
I explained to him, but he still wrote "fever" in my medical record, and said that my lungs were thick, but he did not give me a hearing, and my CT and blood routine were normal.
但我还是回家自我隔离了。
But I went home and isolated myself.
令我万万没想到的是，后来，我的个人信息被泄露了。
To my great surprise, my personal information was leaked.
一开始是一个Excel表格，里面有几百人的信息，从武汉回来乘坐哪趟车，身份证号，住址都写得清清楚楚，包括有些人的姓名和电话。
It started as an Excel form with information about hundreds of people, the train they had returned from Wuhan, their identity numbers, and their addresses, including the names and telephone numbers of some of them.
我当时还没有特别在意，但后来很多人加我微信，说希望我平安，我很惊讶，通过了几个，想问问情况，他们给我发了一个截图，上面是我们县里的几个发热病人信息的统计，其中我的姓名、身份证号、住址、体温、电话都写了。
I didn't care, but then a lot of people told me that they wanted me to be safe. I was surprised and passed a few. They sent me a screenshot of several feverish patients in our county with my name, identity number, address, body temperature and telephone number.
被泄露到网上的个人信息图源网络我觉得很害怕，就加那个截图里一个小组长的微信，说希望能够快速解决这件事，但他说信息泄露应该找公安部门解决，他是卫生部门。
I was scared and added a message from a team leader in the screenshot, saying he hoped the matter could be resolved quickly, but he said the leak should be addressed to the public security department, which is the health department.
过了几个小时，又有更多人加我微信了，我只好报警了，当时，我还跟警察说别来我们家，万一来了，你被隔离了怎么办，不然我发消息给你说这件事。
A few hours later, more people sent letters to me and I had to call the police. At that time, I told the police not to come to our house. What if you were quarantined or I would send you a message about it.
后来，警察的确没来，他们找到我家的亲戚过来劝我，亲戚批评我说不要找麻烦，大家都在搞疫情，说我不懂事，我只好取消报警了。
Later, the police did not come, they came to my relatives to persuade me, relatives criticized me not to make trouble, everyone is doing epidemic, said I do not understand, I had to cancel the police.
前天下午，我爸发现家门口有人看着我们，因为我家有监控，监控的一角停着一辆车，里头有人。
The day before yesterday afternoon, my father found someone looking at us in front of my house, because we had surveillance, a car parked in the corner of the surveillance, there was someone inside.
我们也没驱赶也没报警，关于疫情，我甚至能够理解这种做法。
We didn't chase it or call the police, and I can even understand it about the outbreak.
但隐私泄露这件事不处理，我的个人信息还在疯狂传播，我很生气。
But I'm angry that this privacy leak is not being addressed and that my personal information is still circulating frantically.
这些天，我们家人都非常注意。
These days, our families are very attentive.
23号武汉封城之后，我爸妈意识到了我不是在危言耸听，他们也不怎么出门了。
After the closure of Wuhan No. 23, my parents realized that I was not alarmist and that they didn't go out much anymore.
有人要来我家串门，也都拒绝了。
Some people wanted to come to my house, but also refused.
但因为信息泄露了，这些天，总有村里的人打电话给我爸爸，问：你女儿怎么样了？还好吧？现在她在哪里呀？你知道她发热了吗？吞吞吐吐绕半天，他们都在那张截图上看到了我。
But because of the leaks, people from the village called my father these days and asked, "How's your daughter? Is she okay? Where is she now? Do you know she's feverish?"
我们虽然从武汉回来，但我们不是非法吃野味的人，我们也很自觉减少对社会可能的伤害。
Although we have come back from Wuhan, we are not illegal game eaters, we also consciously reduce the possible harm to the society.
武汉有我的同学，老师，我比谁都想让疫情快点解决，但隐私被随意泄露的事，让我觉得很难受。
Wuhan has my classmates, teachers, I want to let the epidemic quickly than anyone else, but the fact that privacy was let loose, let me feel very uncomfortable.
这两天，每天还是有人来加我，我也一直在打电话，他们总是彼此推诿，或是说在处理中，但你也不知道有没有在处理。
These two days, people come to me every day, I have been on the phone, they always prevaricate, or in the process of dealing with, but you do not know whether to deal with it.
昨天，我打电话去了市卫健委，接电话的人说，那个Excel表格是要求被公布的，那张我们县所谓发热病人的截图他们不知道是怎么回事。
Yesterday, I called the city health committee and the caller said the Excel form was requested and they didn't know what happened to the screenshot of the so-called feverish patient in our county.
我联系一同在截图上的几个人，他们现在也都在家隔离，也都在找相关部门解决隐私泄露问题，大家都没有进展。
I contacted several of the people on the screenshot who are now also isolated at home, and are looking to the authorities to resolve the privacy issue, and no one has made any progress.
我现在还在自我隔离期，也不知道什么时候能回武汉，怎么回去，但我真的很想回武汉，哪怕是去医院值班，或者在宿舍一个人待着。
I am still in self-segregation, I do not know when can go back to Wuhan, how to go back, but I really want to go back to Wuhan, even if it is to go to the hospital on duty, or to stay alone in the dormitory.
我在老家很不开心，我的信息被泄露了，我想解决这个问题，但所有人都跟你说，不要惹麻烦，这几天我心情都很烦躁，刚回来的时候，总觉得有愧疚，给家人和各部门都添麻烦了，但现在，我的感觉是，我自己被牺牲了。
I was unhappy in my hometown, my message was leaked, and I wanted to solve the problem, but everyone told you, don't get into trouble. I've been feeling restless for a few days, and on my way back, I always felt guilty and troubled both my family and the authorities.
凤凰新闻发起的呼吁拒绝登机石莉 40岁 公司职员我们是20号下午从武汉出发到日本的武汉人，原计划27号返回武汉。
-An Appeal from Phoenix News -An Appeal to Boarding Shilly 40-year-old company A: We, the Wuhan people who left Wuhan for Japan on the 20th afternoon, had planned to return to Wuhan on the 27th.
这次的行程是2019年12月初定下来的，跟团游是没办法退费的，接近三万块钱。
This trip is set in early December 2019, with the tour is no way to refund, close to 30, 000 yuan.
出发前，新闻报道里的武汉肺炎没有那么严重，说有限人传人，我们坐地铁看到很多人没戴口罩。
Before the departure, the news report that Wuhan pneumonia is not so serious, said limited person-to-person, we took the subway to see many people do not wear masks.
20号下午，我们去机场走了红外线测体温，很顺利地出境。
In the afternoon of the 20th, we went to the airport to take infrared temperature, very smooth exit.
到了日本之后的几天，才知道疫情爆发。
It was only a few days after arriving in Japan that the outbreak became known.
如果我们当时知道现在回家这么难，我们绝不会出来。
If we had known it was so difficult to get home now, we would never have come out.
24号我们得知自己的返程航班被取消，国内外乱成一片，我们只好各自买票回到国内其他城市再想办法。
On the 24th we learned that our return flight had been canceled and there was a great deal of confusion at home and abroad. We had to buy our own tickets and go back to other cities in the country.
我们28人的团，包括我们一家在内，有9个人搭乘了那班从名古屋飞上海经停再发长沙的航班。
Nine of our 28-member group, including my family, took the flight from Nagoya to Shanghai to stop and reissue Changsha.
到了登机口我们才知道乘坐同一个航班的武汉人有19个，我们也互相也不认识。
Arriving at the gate, we learned that there were 19 Wuhan people on the same flight, and we did not know each other.
登机前半小时，问题出现了。
Half an hour before boarding the plane, the problem arose.
有六十多名非武汉籍旅客拉住机场地勤，说他们不同意跟我们搭乘同一架飞机。
More than 60 non-Wuhan-based passengers pulled up at the airport and said they did not agree to take the same plane with us.
这些天，我们在外头非常低调，生怕被人、特别是中国人知道我们是武汉人，因为你预料不到会有什么遭遇。
These days, we keep a low profile outside, for fear that people, especially the Chinese, will know that we are Wuhan people, because you do not expect what will happen.
但他们还是知道了，他们中还有人会日语，一直在跟机组人员沟通，不愿意跟我们登上同一班飞机。
But they did know that some of them spoke Japanese, talked to the crew, and didn't want to board the plane with us.
后来，我们先上了飞机，机组人员给我们反复测体温证实我们没有发热，电子体温计、水银体温计，来回测，跟那些不愿意上飞机的人沟通。
Later, we boarded the plane, and the crew took repeated temperature checks to confirm that we had no heat, electronic thermometers, mercury thermometers, back and forth, and people who didn't want to board the plane.
我们在机舱被困了五个小时，到后来陆续上了一些人，坐在靠前的机舱，与我们隔得很远。
We were stuck in the engine room for five hours, and then there were people who were sitting in the front cabin, a long way off from us.
也有行李被卸下来，有些人就不搭乘了。
Some of the luggage was unloaded and some people stopped.
从当地时间早晨9点等到下午2点多，我们的飞机才起飞，四点多才到上海。
From 9am to 2pm local time, our plane didn't take off until four o'clock in Shanghai.
体温监测 图源网络在日本的时候，导游告诉我们，只要交4000日元的手续费，签证可以延期30天，可我们从没想过要留在日本。
While we were in Japan, the guide told us that visas could be extended for 30 days for a handling charge of 4000 yen, but we never thought of staying in Japan.
其实如果我们真得肺炎了，在日本会有人管，费用全免，医疗资源也更好。
In fact, if we do get pneumonia, there will be someone in Japan, free of charge, and better medical resources.
可我们想回家，我们家里有四个老人在武汉，没有我们他们不能开车，每天无时无刻不在发消息，叮嘱他们不要出门，怕他们没吃没喝。
But we want to go home, we have four old people in Wuhan, without us they can not drive, every day around the clock to tell them not to go out, afraid they did not eat or drink.
在日本的时候，我们只要在外面，都戴上了口罩。
When we were in Japan, all we had to do was wear masks outside.
从名古屋到富士山、东京、大阪、奈良，日本导游也一直陪着我们走完这8天，最后还把我们送到机场，看着我们安检离境。
From Nagoya to Mount Fuji, Tokyo, Osaka and Nara, the Japanese tour guide accompanied us through the eight days, and finally took us to the airport to watch our security check leave.
我们也非常配合检查，不愿意给人添麻烦，飞机上，我们的座位都被安排在60排以后，有三个武汉人本来坐45排，后来也很自觉坐到60排了。
We also very much cooperate with the inspection, do not want to cause trouble, on the plane, our seats are arranged after Row 60, three Wuhan people originally sat in row 45, and then consciously sat in Row 60.
其实，我买这张机票时，想过最坏的情况，回国后可能统一安置、隔离，这些我们都做好了准备，这毕竟是不可抵抗的力量，可至少我们离家里更近了。
In fact, when I bought this ticket, I thought about the worst-case scenario. When I returned home, we were ready for the worst.
你看看我们海外群，95%以上的人都是想通过各种途径回家的。
If you look at our overseas communities, more than 95 percent of the people want to go home by various means.
但在机场，看到拒绝登机的人在闹的时候，我们当时特别害怕，怕这次又回不去了。
But at the airport, when we saw the people who refused to board the plane, we were so afraid that we would not be able to go back.
我就想着回来了，哪怕你给我们开趟车，把我们集体遣返湖北也好。
I was thinking of coming back, even if you were to drive us back to Hubei collectively or not.
当天下午四点在上海下飞机后，防疫人员给我们反复检测了体温，晚上八点多，我们被统一送到了酒店，后来又被带到浦东的一家传染病医院做病毒检查。
After disembarking in Shanghai at 4: 00 pm on the same day, we were repeatedly tested for body temperature, more than 8 pm, we were unified to the hotel, and then taken to a Pudong infectious disease hospital for a virus test.
我们是通过上海市召开的新闻发布会才知道那次的检查结果都是阴性，但为了保险起见，我们现在还在医院隔离，等待二次检测。
We only learned about the negative results at a press conference in Shanghai, but just to be on the safe side, we are still being quarantined in hospital awaiting a second test.
我们愿意做检查，愿意接受隔离，但想到那个被国人拒绝上同一班飞机的上午，我们觉得非常难受。
We were willing to be screened and quarantined, but the thought of the morning the Chinese refused to go on the same flight made us miserable.
我们甚至能理解他们排斥我们的心理，但我们也是这次疫情的受害者，有家不能回。
We can even understand their psychological rejection of us, but we are also victims of this epidemic and cannot return home.
武汉市委书记回应武汉人受到歧视宰客婷婷 27岁 老师我们19号就来云南旅游了。
Wuhan party secretary response to discrimination against Wuhan Zhai Tingting 27-year-old teacher we 19 on the Yunnan tour.
行程是提前定好的，不是为了逃避肺炎。
The trip was made in advance, not to escape pneumonia.
从武汉飞到昆明，五六天玩下来，去了大理、丽江，爬了玉龙雪山，没有受到什么歧视。
From Wuhan to Kunming, five or six days to play down, to Dali, Lijiang, climbed the Yulong snow mountain, no discrimination.
可从昆明来到西双版纳之后，我们一下飞机就被旅行社团拒了，25号下午，没有导游来接我们了。
But when we arrived in Xishuangbanna from Kunming, we were turned down by the tour group as soon as we got off the plane.
这一天，所有酒店都不接收湖北籍游客。
On this day, all hotels do not accept Hubei tourists.
老板的统一口径是，政府政策是这样的，湖北籍不能办入住。
Boss's unified voice is that the government policy is like this, Hubei nationality can not be accommodated.
他们戴着口罩，叫我们走，不要影响他们做生意。
They were wearing masks and told us to go without affecting their business.
我打给了西双版纳景洪市公安局。
I called Xishuangbanna Jinghong City Public Security Bureau.
12点钟，公安局的民警来，给我们做了笔录。
At twelve o'clock the police from the police station came and took notes for us.
我把自己的行程路线详细回忆了一遍，接触过的人也都说了，可记录完了，他们说只负责出警和记录。
I went over my itinerary in detail, and all the people I spoke to said it was all I could record. They said they were only responsible for the police and the records.
我只好继续打电话，市长热线让我打给旅游局，旅游局又让我打给市疾控，工作人员发来的号码要么是空号，要么是错误的……就这样打了无数电话后，疾控中心终于给我提供了几个可以去的酒店。
I continued to call, the mayor's hotline asked me to call MGTO, and MGTO asked me to call CDC. The numbers were either dead or wrong... After making countless calls, the CDC finally offered me a few hotels to go to.
这些酒店，要么客满，要么让我们去医院开证明，终于找到了一家酒店，标间价格680元一晚，远高于正常价位，这时候已经是晚上11点了，我觉得很累了。
The hotels, which were either full or let us go to the hospital for a certificate, finally found a hotel. The standard room price was 680 yuan a night, well above the normal price.
心想算了，先将就一晚再说。
Just think about it. We'll talk about it one night.
第二天，酒店要续费了，但我不想再被宰了。
The next day, the hotel is up for renewal, but I don't want to be killed again.
我再次给疾控打电话，又打给旅游局。
I called CDC again and the Tourist Board.
旅游局领导说，你可以联系物价局。
You can contact the price bureau, 'said the head of the bureau.
物价局告诉我们，「春节溢价很正常」，你们可以搬到别的酒店去。
The price office told us that the Spring Festival premium is normal and you can move to another hotel.
我被他们不耐烦的语气伤透了心。
I was hurt by their impatient tone.
现在大家受疫情影响都不旅游了，酒店很多空房间，为什么还要这么赚我们的钱？后来，在我反复拨打电话之后，市疾控给我们协调了一个比较低的价格，230元，可以继续住在现在的酒店了。
Now everyone is affected by the epidemic do not travel, the hotel many empty rooms, why do we still earn our money? Later, after I repeatedly called, the city disease control gave us a lower price, 230 yuan, can continue to live in the present hotel.
昨天，西双版纳旅游局打电话给我，告知我们的酒店从第一天开始就以160元每天计价。
Yesterday, Xishuangbanna Tourist Office called me and told me that our hotel had been priced at 160 yuan a day since the first day.
我们安心了一些。
We're a little relieved.
我数了数，这几天，加上没有打通的电话，我累计拨打了115个电话。
I counted a total of 115 calls over the past few days, plus unconnected calls.
其实，别人对我们冷漠，我可以理解，有人在网上骂武汉人去死，活该，我知道那只是少数。
In fact, other people are indifferent to us, I can understand, someone online scold Wuhan people to die, deserve it, I know it is only a minority.
我只是希望这种对立情绪不要继续下去，武汉人和其他人互相误解，不要在恐慌中恶语相向。
I just hope that this antagonism does not continue, Wuhan and other people misunderstand each other, not in fear of each other.
图源B站躲藏雯婕 38岁 瑜伽教练我之前根本没有认识到疫情的严重，只知道有人吃野味引发了肺炎。
Stationery B Hidden Vivien Jai 38 Yoga Coach I didn't realize the severity of the outbreak.
我经常锻炼，身体很好，没有觉得害怕。
I exercise regularly, I am in good health and I am not afraid.
1月6号，我离开武汉去深圳学习，谁成想，这一走，我差一点就回不了家。
January 6, I left Wuhan to study in Shenzhen, who thought, this walk, I almost can not go home.
1月19号，深圳的学习结束之后，我去了上海，因为两天后，我要带着母亲和孩子坐游轮去福冈玩。
On January 19th, after my studies in Shenzhen ended, I went to Shanghai because two days later, I would take my mother and children on a cruise ship to Fukuoka.
游轮出发的时候，全船没有人戴口罩。
When the cruise ship left, no one on board was wearing a mask.
只听到一起玩的团友说，口罩脱销了。
The group that heard only one play said that the mask was out of stock.
我们在导游的要求下反复量体温，吃饭量一次，洗手量一次，酒店出来再量一次。
We took temperature repeatedly at the request of the guide, took a meal, took a hand wash, and the hotel came out to take a second check.
以前出门旅游恨不得每天都来个五连拍，但到了日本的第一天就没有心情拍照。
I used to be in the mood to take pictures on my first day in Japan.
回到国内的那天是25号，武汉已经封城了，回家的车次全部显示售完。
Back home on the day of the 25th, Wuhan has been closed, the home of the train show all sold out.
我原定2月8日要在北京培训，于是就买了上海到北京的车票，带着母亲和女儿去了北京。
As I was due to train in Beijing on February 8, I bought a ticket to Beijing from Shanghai and took my mother and daughter to Beijing.
去北京的路上，我还没有意识到疫情的严重性，还想着去爬长城。
On my way to Beijing, I didn't realize the severity of the epidemic and wanted to climb the Great Wall.
到了北京，所有景点全部关闭，街上没有一个不戴口罩的人。
When we arrived in Beijing, all the attractions were closed and there was not a single man in the street wearing a mask.
我们的心凉透了，赶紧买一个口罩，想挡住病菌也想挡住说武汉人的流言蜚语。
Our heart is cool enough, buy a mask quickly, want to block the germs also want to block the gossip of Wuhan people.
坐出租车和买东西的时候，我们一张口，旁边所有人都看我们，我们也不敢再开口说话。
When we took taxis and did our shopping, we all looked at each other, and we didn't dare to talk.
听说五环内入住会查身份证，我担心被抓起来隔离，就用朋友的身份证租了一间六环外的民房，像做贼一样住了下来。
I heard that inside the Fifth Ring Check ID card, I was afraid of being arrested and quarantined, so I rented a house outside the Sixth Ring Road with my friend's identity card and settled down like a thief.
女儿四岁半，正是好动的年纪，喜欢在家里蹦蹦跳跳。
My daughter, four and a half years old, is an active age who likes to bounce around the house.
我吓唬她，你跳了，我们可能被抓走。
I scared her, you jumped, and we could be taken.
我们给房东打电话，他看到我的手机号是武汉号码，吓坏了，我一再解释出武汉的日期他才放心，还叮嘱我们，千万不要出门。
We called the landlord, he saw my mobile phone number Wuhan, scared, I explained the Wuhan date until he was reassured, and told us not to go out.
我们好害怕。
We're so scared.
因为出门的时候根本不知道疫情的严重程度，也不知道根本回不了家。
Because out of the door did not know the severity of the epidemic, do not know that there is no return home.
在群里，我看到了武汉老乡全国各地的遭遇，有人一天换了三四个酒店都被赶出来，被人指着鼻子骂，还有人住在小区里被人举报，我最害怕的是被抓起来隔离，卫生条件不达标，反而被感染。
In the group, I saw Wuhan Laoxiang across the country, someone was one day to change three or four hotels were thrown out, the nose was scolded, people living in the community was reported, I was most afraid of being arrested and isolated, sub-standard sanitary conditions, instead of being infected.
大年初一，我们就在屋里呆着，没有出门。
On New Year's Day, we stayed indoors and did not go out.
初二，我走了四站地，找到了一个超市，背了五桶方便面回来，一路上，所有的药店都没有口罩和酒精了。
On the second day, I walked four stops, found a supermarket, carried five barrels of instant noodles back, and along the way, all pharmacies were free of masks and alcohol.
看到我买的方便面，我妈嫌不好吃，说，我们干脆自己举报自己算了。
See I buy instant noodles, my mother is not good to eat, said, we simply report their own calculation.
我也想，如果真的被抓，也就被抓了。
And I think if I'm caught, I'm gonna get caught.
北京部分超市货架图源网络唯一庆幸的是，这次把老公留在了家里，婆婆有人照顾。
Beijing supermarket shelves map source network is only lucky, this time left her husband at home, mother-in-law someone to take care of.
我们俩只能在视频的时候互相打气，他们跟我们一样，躲在家里，不再出门。
We had to cheer each other up on the video, and they were like us, hiding at home and not going out.
我受够这种担惊受怕的日子了。
I've had enough of these days of fear.
大年初四，我们按照武汉老乡北京群里的攻略，买了北京到长沙南的高铁票。
At the beginning of the year, we bought high-speed train tickets from Beijing to Changsha in accordance with the tactics of Wuhan Laoxiang Beijing Group.
上了车，乘务员告诉我们，车在武汉会停靠，没有人会阻止我们下车。
On getting on, the conductor told us that the bus would stop at Wuhan and no one would stop us from getting off.
但她也没说武汉可以下车。
But she also did not say Wuhan can get off.
这个非常时期，每个人说话都很小心。
Everyone is very careful what he says at this unusual time.
告诉她我们要回武汉之后，一路上也没有乘务员再来过我们这两节车厢。
After telling her we were going back to Wuhan, no flight attendant came back to either of our two carriages.
中午1:16，我们一家三口顺利抵达武汉站。
At 1: 16 noon, three members of our family arrived at Wuhan Station smoothly.
和我们一起下车的还有五六个武汉人。
Five or six Wuhan people got off the bus with us.
朋友开车来接我们回家。
Friends drove us home.
回家的路上，他告诉我们，每天都能看到有人从火车站走十几站路回家。
On his way home, he told us that every day he could see people walking a dozen stops from the railway station to get home.
武汉成了空城，街上空荡荡的，比北京冷。
Wuhan has become an empty city. The streets are empty and colder than Beijing.
但我心里真的温暖多了，因为我回家了。
But I'm really much warmer because I'm home.
徒步回家崔涛 20岁 车商我们1月22号从武汉天河机场出发到的三亚，当时去的飞机上也一直戴着口罩，以为这样就可以了，那时候还不知道肺炎疫情有这么严重，23号武汉封城，我们当时很想回家，但已经回不去了，三亚的旅游景点也都关了。
We were travelling to Sanya from Wuhan Tianhe Airport on January 22. We were wearing masks on all the planes and thought it would be all right. At that time, we didn't know that the pneumonia was so serious.
25号那天，我们在海口。
On the 25th, we were in Haikou.
酒店不给我们的房间提供热水了。
The hotel doesn't serve hot water to our room.
当天，我打市民求助热线12345，得到的回复是：没封岛，可以让你们走，但你们能不能回到你们那个地方，就不知道了，你们得联系当地部门。
On the same day, I called the Citizen's Helpline 12345 and got the reply: No islands, you can go, but if you can go back to your place, I don't know. You have to contact the local authorities.
挂了电话，我们就决定回家。
When we hung up, we decided to go home.
我打电话给潜江的朋友，他说，高速没封，可以回来。
I called a friend of Qianjiang, who said that the speed is unsealed and can come back.
我们当时的想法是，先想办法去岳阳，坐车到潜江的高速路口，让朋友在那头接我们。
Our idea at the time was to find a way to go to Yueyang and take a bus to the high-speed intersection of the submerged river.
我们25号晚上十点半到的岳阳，足足花了一个多小时，找了20多家酒店，才找到一家愿意接受我们入住的酒店。
Yueyang, where we arrived at 10: 30 p.m. on the 25th, spent more than an hour looking for more than 20 hotels before we found one willing to accept our stay.
这时，潜江的朋友打电话说，高速也封了，进出都不行。
At this time, friends of Qianjiang called to say that the high speed is also sealed, not in or out.
我当时就觉得很无助，但只能继续往前走。
I felt helpless at the time, but I had to move on.
在岳阳待了一晚，第二天，我们找了出租车准备过桥到潜江。
After a night in Yueyang, the next day we found a taxi to cross the bridge to the river.
我们用了很长时间说服司机载我们，他好不容易同意了，但并不愿意过桥，我们只能下车走过去。
It took us a long time to convince the driver to give us a ride. He had a hard time agreeing, but he didn't want to cross the bridge.
当时是1月26日上午11点多，我们一行三个人，从岳阳的荆岳大桥开始，徒步横跨大桥。
It was more than 11: 00 a.m. on January 26, and we crossed the bridge on foot, starting with the Jingyueyue Bridge in Yueyang.
收费站的人问我们去哪里，我们说去荆州监利，他听了就跟我们说靠边走，注意安全。
People at the toll booth asked us where we were going. We said we were going to Jingzhou prison.
走了将近10几分钟之后，一个交警来了，估计是有人看到我们在高速上走，就报警了。
After walking for nearly 10 minutes, a traffic policeman arrived. Someone might have seen us walking on the highway and called the police.
交警一直跟着我们后面，让我们靠边上走，注意安全，帮我们把行李放到警车的后备箱，一路陪着我们到桥的另一边，虽然他没有让我们上车，但是我们也理解，他们能帮我们把行李放车里，我们已经觉得很温暖了。
The traffic police followed us all the way to the side, took care of our safety, helped us put our luggage in the trunk of the police car, and accompanied us to the other side of the bridge. Although he didn't let us on, we understood that they could help us put our luggage in the car.
那天是阴天，桥上的风很大，底下是长江，我们徒步走了两个小时，10多公里，途中，看到一个男生，一个女生，也都在大桥上走着，他们都是一个人。
It was cloudy and windy on the bridge. The Changjiang River walked on foot for two hours and more than 10 kilometers. On the way, we saw a boy and a girl walking on the bridge.
下桥后，朋友开车接我们，绕了很长的路，才终于回到家。
After we got off the bridge, our friend picked us up and had a long way to go before we finally got home.
生活里大部分时候，不发生事情，大家看起来都一样，但这一次事件里，各种人性都表现出来了。
Most of life, nothing happens, everyone looks the same, but in this case, all kinds of human nature show up.
我想要强调，我们湖北人也不想到处乱跑，我们不是有意出来的，出来后到处都不待见我们，一次次被驱赶，我们只能离开。
I would like to stress that we Hubei people do not want to run around, we do not intend to come out, out of nowhere to see us, repeatedly expelled, we have to leave.
在桥上走的时候，很累，但心是安定的，因为你知道你是在回家。
Walking on the bridge, very tired, but the heart is stable, because you know you are going home.
回到潜江，我很开心，比离开的时候更开心，虽然街上人也少了，大家都戴上了口罩，但你会觉得自己是安心的。
Back in the submerged river, I am more happy than when I left. Although there are fewer people in the street and everyone is wearing masks, you will feel at ease.
在大桥上徒步到湖北省界网络暴力武岩 40岁 客栈老板我是武汉人，在大理经营一间民宿六年。
On foot on the bridge to Hubei province border network violence Wushan 40-year-old innkeeper I am Wuhan, I run a residential house in Dali for six years.
1月25日开始，大理的酒店开始拒绝武汉人入住，我在网上发布信息，接待无处可去的武汉老乡入住，但没想到却遭遇了前所未有的网络暴力。
From January 25, the hotel in Dali began to refuse to let Wuhan people live in, I posted information on the Internet, received nowhere to go to the old villagers live, but did not expect to encounter unprecedented network violence.
各种难听的辱骂从那天开始就没停息。
All sorts of nasty insults have been going on since that day.
有人说我是「丢人现眼的跳梁小丑」，「土狗丑八怪」这都是客气的词汇，还有人直接诅咒，「你家今晚必死」。
Some call me a "disgraced clown," "Ugly dog" is a polite word, and some curse directly, "Your family will die tonight."
他们骂我的母亲，骂我的家庭。
They called my mother names and called my family names.
但他们不知道的是，我来自医生世家，家里很多亲人都在武汉的医疗系统工作。
What they did not know was that I came from a family of doctors, many of whom worked in Wuhan's medical system.
我不想告诉这些亲人，他们在前线奋战的时候，他们的城市和家人因为想帮助武汉人，正在经历这样的侮辱。
I don't want to tell them that while they are fighting on the front lines, their city and their families are experiencing such insults because they want to help the Wuhan people.
我比大多数骂我的人都更了解疾病防疫和消毒流程。
I know the disease prevention and disinfection process better than most of the people who blame me.
我的民宿里成箱囤着消毒液，接待武汉老乡之前和之后，我都认真消毒，从开民宿以来，这就是我每天的常规操作。
Before and after I received the old villagers in Wuhan, I disinfected them carefully. This is my routine daily operation since I opened the house.
听说武汉人无处可去的消息，我毫不犹豫地决定为他们提供住宿，我妈妈也坚决支持我，而且，我说了，武汉老乡来我的民宿入住，可以享受一百块钱一晚的优惠价格。
Hearing that Wuhan people have nowhere to go, I decided without hesitation to provide them with accommodation, my mother also firmly supported me, and, as I said, Wuhan Laoxiang came to my residential quarters, can enjoy a hundred dollars a night preferential prices.
十几个武汉老乡陆续赶过来。
More than a dozen Wuhan villagers rushed in succession.
在别处，他们都已经被拒绝过无数次了。
Elsewhere, they have been rejected countless times.
可惜我只有十间客房，也住了别的客人，只能接待这么多人。
It's a pity that I have only ten guestrooms and other guests and can only accommodate so many people.
这些武汉客人只住了两夜，就去大理市的定点酒店了。
These Wuhan guests stayed only two nights, then went to the designated hotel in Dali City.
但即便是他们离开之后，对我的暴力和伤害依然没有消除。
But even after they left, the violence and harm against me continued unabated.
谩骂没有停止，还有很多人匿名举报我。
The invective did not stop, and many anonymous reports were made against me.
27号，警察来了我的民宿两次，他们看了我的健康报告和身份信息，登记了所有入住的武汉游客的信息。
27, the police came to my house twice, they read my health report and identity information, registered all the visitors to Wuhan.
我店附近一辆湖北牌照的私家车也被人砸了，两个人坐在车里，一群村民戴着口罩围在车外，车前玻璃被砸出一个坑，像个蜘蛛网。
A private car with Hubei license plate near my shop was also smashed. Two people were sitting in the car. A group of villagers wearing masks surrounded the car.
还有人以为那是我的车，在网上评论，「那个老板的车被砸了，恶人有恶报。
Others thought it was my car, commenting on the Internet, "The boss's car was smashed, evil people have bad results."
」被砸成蜘蛛网的车窗28日，有村民领着我们这个村子的书记进了的民宿，警告我，「你信不信你再敢接武汉客人，我们把你营业执照吊销，把你赶出村。
"Broken into a spider's web window on the 28th, villagers led the secretary of our village to the residential housing, warning me," Believe it or not, we will revoke your business license and drive you out of the village.
」我只能说放心放心，我不接待客人了。
"I can only assure you that I do not receive visitors.
现在，手机还是不断有陌生短信发过来，辱骂我。
Now, mobile phones are still sending me strange text messages, abuse me.
我只能关掉声音。
I can only turn off the sound.
以前一个闭眼睡到天亮的人，现在睡觉会突然惊醒，总觉得警察会来敲我门家的门，像是犯了多大罪一样。
A man who used to sleep till dawn now wakes up with the feeling that the police would knock on my door as if he had committed some terrible crime.
我觉得唯一连累的人就是我的几位常住客人，他们也因此不得不和我们一起隔离，14天内不能出门。
I felt that the only people involved were some of my usual guests, who had to be separated from us for 14 days.
这个礼拜，我被骂得有些失控，只能每天靠唱歌发泄，一个礼拜录了30多首。
This week, I was scolded a bit out of control, can only rely on singing daily vent, a week recorded more than 30.
28日晚上，我遭遇网络暴力的第四天，我开始一条一条地删除那些辱骂和评论，删了20多分钟，还剩10多页没有删完。
On the evening of April 28, the fourth day of cyber violence, I began deleting the abuse and comments, one by one, for more than 20 minutes, leaving more than 10 pages uncensored.
经过这次，我最担心的事情就是武汉人的心理创伤。
After this, I am most worried about the psychological trauma of Wuhan people.
我们当然理解大家的害怕，但对待同胞，为什么就不能好好说话呢？我很爱大理的阳光，但是经过这次的灾难，我想回武汉。
Of course we understand the fear, but to our compatriots, why can't you talk well? I love the sunshine of Dali, but after this disaster, I want to go back to Wuhan.
善待老欧 49岁 房产经理如果知道武汉的疫情这么严重，那我们一家人一定不会往外跑。
Be kind to Old Europe 49-year-old real estate manager If I knew Wuhan had such a serious epidemic, then our family will not run outside.
我们六口人是18号离开武汉的，准备自驾到海南环岛过年。
The six of us left Wuhan on the 18th, ready to drive to Hainan Island for the New Year.
行程早就提前规划好了，酒店也是很早就预订了，出高速的时候，整个武汉对疫情还没有防备。
The itinerary was planned well in advance and the hotel was booked well in advance, leaving Wuhan unprepared for the outbreak at high speed.
我们按照计划在海南玩了几天，情况却一天比一天坏。
We had been playing in Hainan for a few days as planned, but the situation was getting worse every day.
23号武汉封城之后，我停在酒店门口的车被人举报，接着酒店老板又告诉我们，有的客人因为看到我们的武汉牌照，直接要求退房。
Wuhan after the 23, I parked in front of the car was reported, and then the owner of the hotel told us that some of our customers because saw our Wuhan license plate, direct request check out.
我们不得已，按照老板给的办法，停车不上路的时候，就用写着「福禄寿喜，迎福纳财」的红纸把车牌糊起来。
We had to follow the boss's advice and stick the license plate on red paper with the words: "Fortune likes to meet fortune" when the car is off the road.
吃饭的时候，把车停得很远，再步行去饭店，吃饭也尽量不张口说话。
During the meal, park your car far away, walk to a restaurant, and eat as quietly as you can.
但上了路之后，还有很多人拿出手机拍我们，看我们的眼神，就像是看瘟神。
But on the way, many people took out their cell phones and patted us, looking at our eyes, as if to see the plague.
被糊起来的车牌我们在自我隔离中度过了春节。
We spent the Spring Festival in self-segregation.
到了27号，我们已经无法在海南找到任何一家接收我们的酒店，海口市的指定酒店，不是客满就是歇业，我们无处可去了。
By the 27th, we had been unable to find any of our hotels in Hainan, designated hotels in Haikou, either full or closed. We had nowhere to go.
我查了网上的信息，看到湛江收留武汉人，就决定坐船去广东。
I checked the information on the net, saw Zhanjiang take in Wuhan people, decided to go to Guangdong by boat.
下了船，我们打电话给湛江市市长热线，他们立刻给我们指引了一家位置在徐闻的酒店。
When we got off the boat, we called Zhanjiang Mayor's Hotline and they showed us a hotel in Xuwen immediately.
开过来已经是深夜一点钟了，还有志愿者等在门里。
It was already one o'clock in the night, with volunteers waiting at the door.
量完体温，正式入住，我们总算找到了一个可以停下来的地方。
After taking the temperature, we finally found a place where we could stop.
这里的两栋楼全部住满，一百多位武汉人在这里寄住。
The two buildings here are fully occupied and more than one hundred Wuhan people live here.
在这里，我们终于感受到了一点温暖。
Here, at last, we felt a little warmth.
每天上午，都会有医护人员来给我们量体温，大家正常戴着口罩防护，没有人作出远远地把温度计递给我们那种害怕的动作。
Every morning, paramedics come to take our temperature, people wear masks normally, and no one makes the fearful gesture of handing us a thermometer at a distance.
这里的食宿也全部免费。
There is also free room and board.
一日三餐营养搭配，中午有白斩鸡和青菜，晚上还有当地的特色小吃。
Three meals a day with nutrition, white chopped chicken and vegetables at noon, and local snacks at night.
怕我们吃不饱，志愿者还给我们买了方便面、酸奶、果汁、矿泉水和啤酒，每天供应苹果、橘子、橙子、冬枣。
Fearing that we would not get enough to eat, the volunteers also bought us instant noodles, yogurt, juice, mineral water and beer, serving apples, oranges, oranges and dates every day.
在一块发给我们的榴莲蛋糕上面，贴着一张黄色的小纸条，写着，「手足情深，共度时艰。
On a piece of durian cake we were given, there was a small yellow note saying, "It's hard to be together.
」这几天，百余位武汉人的体温都正常。
"Over a hundred Wuhan people have normal body temperature these days.
我们建了一个群，有什么需要的东西，就在群里接力写下来，再由志愿者帮我们统一购买。
We built a group and what we needed was written down in a relay in the group. Volunteers would help us buy everything together.
在徐闻，口罩根本买不到，但当地的志愿者这些天都给我们送来，优先保证供应酒店里的武汉人。
In Xu Wen, masks can not be bought, but the local volunteers these days sent us, priority to ensure the supply of Wuhan people in the hotel.
志愿者还说，如果对条件不满意，还可以换住其他酒店。
The volunteers also said they could stay at other hotels if they were dissatisfied with their condition.
对于在湛江徐闻经历的一切，我们非常感激。
We are very grateful for what we have experienced in Zhanjiang Xu Wen.
我经历过2003年非典，还记得那时候的情形。
I experienced SARS in 2003, and I remember what happened then.
那年，很多广东人和北京人跑到我们武汉去，看到这两地牌照的车，我们都是同情、欢迎，从来没有过举报。
That year, many Cantonese and Beijingers came to us in Wuhan, to see the license plates of both cars, we are sympathetic, welcome, never reported.
宾馆是开放的，我也为非典疫情捐了款。
The hotel is open and I have contributed to the SARS epidemic.
我相信，不管疫情发生在哪个城市，道理都像是志愿者给我们的另一张小纸条上写着的一样：「你们的城市生病了，但很快会治好，我们全国人民一起加油哈。
I believe that no matter where the outbreak occurred, it was like the message on another note that volunteers gave us: "Your city is sick, but it will soon be cured.
」（应采访对象要求，文中人物皆为化名）。
"(All characters in the text are aliases when asked to do so).
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「经过这次，我最担心的是武汉人的心理创伤」。
"After this, I am most worried about the Wuhan people's psychological trauma."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「经过这次，我最担心的是武汉人的心理创伤」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "What concerns me most about this time is Wuhan's trauma";;
var msg_desc = "这些天，离开武汉的人都经历了什么？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
