口罩厂获特批赶工，52小时工作制下韩国人想加班也不容易。
The mask factory has been given special permission to work, and it is not easy for South Koreans to work overtime under the 52-hour work schedule.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：pexels记者：肖恩“ 对一些韩国人来说，强制“减负”后加班工资也跟着缩水了，中小企业的劳动力成本压力也随着劳动时间减少而不断增加，导致就业岗位减少。
Source: Sean: For some South Koreans, overtime pay has shrunk as a result of the imposition of "load reduction," and labor cost pressures on small and medium-sized enterprises have increased with fewer hours of work, leading to job losses.
”对上班族来说，工作时间越少越好？韩国人会告诉你，未必。
The less time you have to work, the better. South Koreans will tell you, not necessarily.
已经出台了近两年的52小时工作制正逐渐覆盖韩国各行各业，上班族们开始有更多的时间回归家庭，但这把双刃剑的另一面也随之浮现。
The 52-hour workday, which has been in place for nearly two years, is gradually covering all walks of life, giving workers more time to return home, but the flip side of the double-edged sword has emerged.
2月4日，韩国为应对在中国爆发的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情提出了一项特别措施：免除对口罩和医疗卫生物品生产企业的工作时间限制。
South Korea on Feb. 4 proposed a special measure in response to the outbreak of a new coronavirus pneumonia in China: a waiver of working hours for factories manufacturing masks and medical supplies.
根据韩国《劳动基准法》规定，在发生灾难和重大事件时，应对工种企业可以提出延长工作时间的要求，前提是要获得员工的同意和劳动部批准。
According to the Labor Benchmarks Act of Korea, in the event of disasters and major events, an extension of working hours may be required from an enterprise in the case of a disaster or major event, subject to the consent of the employee and approval of the Ministry of Labour.
由于疫情对供应链的影响，韩国车企也要求放宽52小时工作时限，避免出现供应不足的现象。
South Korean carmakers are also demanding a 52-hour limit to avoid shortages because of the epidemic's impact on supply chains.
韩国两大车企巨头现代和起亚正面临供应链瘫痪带来的生产危机，其中现代汽车已宣布暂停部分生产。
Hyundai and Kia, two of South Korea's biggest carmakers, are facing a production crisis as supply chains collapse, with Hyundai announcing a partial moratorium on production.
韩国汽车零部件生产企业3日在与贸易、工业与能源部的会议上提出，最高工时规定限制了企业利用有限的人力提高产量。
South Korean auto parts manufacturers in a meeting with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said the maximum working hours limit the use of limited manpower enterprises to increase production.
韩国从2018年7月开始实行52小时工作周制度，并从2020年1月起将实施范围从公共机构和大企业扩大至50人以上、300人以下的中小企业。
Since July 2018, Korea has been implementing a 52-hour week system and since January 2020 has expanded the scope of implementation from public institutions and large enterprises to small and medium-sized enterprises with more than 50 employees and fewer than 300.
但这些企业将享有1年的过渡期，享受过渡期优惠的企业将被排除在监管对象之外。
However, these enterprises will have a one-year transition period, and those benefiting from transitional benefits will be excluded from regulation.
到2021年7月，这项规定将覆盖至员工人数低于49人的公司。
By July 2021, this will cover companies with fewer than 49 employees.
该制度适用于包括公交公司、餐馆、酒吧、批发和零售店等在内的21个行业。
The system applies to 21 industries, including bus companies, restaurants, bars, wholesale and retail outlets, etc.
但韩国雇佣劳动部在1月31日出台了一条补充规定，涉及关键研究项目的机构和企业在申请获批后可以免除最高工作时间限制。
However, the Ministry of Employment and Labour issued a supplementary regulation on January 31, according to which institutions and enterprises involved in key research projects may be exempted from the maximum working time limit if their applications are approved.
一周最多工作52小时，其中工作日40小时，也就是每天8小时封顶，周末加班不能超过12小时。
A maximum of 52 hours are worked a week, of which 40 hours, or 8 hours per day, are capped, and no more than 12 hours are allowed on weekends.
这听起来似乎是很合理和普遍的工作时间规定。
This sounds like a very reasonable and universal regulation of working hours.
但相比此前韩国一周68小时的最高工作时间，整整减少了16小时。
But that is down 16 hours from a peak of 68 hours a week in South Korea.
这项“52小时工作制”是韩国总统文在寅竞选期间作出的承诺之一，旨在缩短常被韩国人称为“无人道般的长”的工作时间，并改善工作与生活的平衡。
The 52-hour working day was part of a pledge made by South Korean President Wen Jiabao during the election campaign to cut what South Koreans often call "inhumane working hours" and improve work-life balance.
在2017年，韩国人均年工作时间以2024个小时高居经合组织（OECD）成员国第二位，高出该组织平均水平近300个小时。
In 2017, South Korea will have the second-highest average annual working time of 2,024 hours, nearly 300 hours above the OECD average.
过度工作所引发的“过劳死”乃至“过劳自杀”层出不穷，让韩国政府不得不思变。
The government has been forced to think about the "karoshi" and "overwork suicides" caused by overwork.
2018年3月，缩短工时的法律以压倒性的多数投票在韩国国民大会通过。
In March 2018, a law shortening working hours was passed by an overwhelming majority in the South Korean National Assembly.
新法律生效后，韩国人的工作时间有了显著变化。
Since the new law came into effect, Korean working hours have changed significantly.
据韩国劳动部发布的数据，2018年全年韩国员工平均工作1986小时，首次低于2000小时。
South Korean workers worked an average of 1986 hours in 2018, the first time less than 2,000, according to data released by South Korea's Ministry of Labour.
而文在寅政府正力图在2022年将其缩短至1800小时。
The Win government is trying to shorten it to 1800 hours by 2022.
一些企业采取自动关闭电脑等手段来“逼”员工下班。
Some companies have resorted to turning off computers and other means to "force" employees to leave work.
工作时间减少了，家庭生活时间就增加了。
When working hours are reduced, family life time increases.
据韩国中央银行的数据，2018年私人教育和娱乐支出分别呈现九年来和七年来的最快增长。
According to the Central Bank of Korea, private spending on education and recreation grew the fastest in nine and seven years, respectively, in 2018.
韩国政府相信这也有助于增加韩国的出生率。
The South Korean government believes this will also help increase South Korea's birth rate.
韩国的新生儿出生率一直在走下坡，甚至在2018年跌破1，成为世界第一个零出生率的国家。
South Korea's birth rate has been declining, falling below 1 in 2018, making it the first country in the world to have zero births.
但这个“减负”规定却让一些韩国人开心不起来，主要原因是加班工资也跟着工作时间一起缩水了。
But the "load-reduction" rule has made some South Koreans unhappy, largely because overtime pay has shrunk with working hours.
一些人提出工作时间减少了，工作量却没有减，导致他们不得不在家零工资加班。
Some people argue that working hours have been reduced without any reduction in workload, resulting in them having to work overtime at home without pay.
新规对收入影响在从事制造行业的上班族身上更为明显。
The impact of the new rules on incomes is more pronounced among workers in the manufacturing sector.
据韩国财经周刊《MoneyS》报道，一名制造业企业员工称，新规实施后他的月收入减少了约100万韩元（约合人民币6000元）。
A manufacturing employee said his monthly income fell by about one million won (about 6,000 yuan) after the new rules came into effect, according to MoneyS, a South Korean economic weekly.
2019年5月，韩国的公交车司机工会也曾通过罢工表达对工时规定的不满。
In May 2019, South Korea's bus drivers' union also went on strike to express dissatisfaction with working hours.
除了韩国人，这样的规定也成了许多外籍劳工离职转岗的重要诱因。
In addition to South Koreans, such rules have become an important incentive for many migrant workers to leave their jobs.
韩国雇佣劳动部的最新统计数据显示，2020年中小企业的外籍劳工岗位申请率仅为86.2%。
According to the latest statistics from the Ministry of Employment and Labour, the application rate for foreign workers in SMEs was only 86.2 per cent in 2020.
原本这些企业雇用约1.4万名外籍劳工，但最新申请人数仅为1.2万人。
These companies used to employ about 14,000 foreign workers, but the latest number of applicants was only 12,000.
根据2020年外国劳动力资源运用方案，政府明年将通过“就业许可制”（E-9签证）引进5.6万名外籍劳工，其中制造业为4.07万人。
Under the 2020 program for the use of foreign labor resources, the government will introduce 56,000 foreign workers through the Employment Permit System (E-9 visas) next year, including 40,700 in manufacturing.
韩国引入外籍劳工数量已经连续4年维持在这个水平。
South Korea has been importing foreign workers at this level for four consecutive years.
对于一些中小企业来说，劳动力成本压力也随着劳动时间减少而不断增加。
For some small and medium-sized enterprises, the pressure on labour costs also increases with the reduction of working hours.
有企业主表示，雇用外籍劳工大多是针对韩国人不愿从事的工作，随着劳动成本上升，如今法规下又不能满足一些劳工多挣加班费的要求，只能主动或被动减少岗位。
Some employers say that foreign workers are mostly employed for jobs South Koreans do not want to do, and that with rising labor costs, regulations now do not meet the demand for overtime pay for some workers, actively or passively reducing jobs.
《韩国经济》11日就报道称，釜山一位造船原材料提供商表示，随着近来政府各项规定的出台，原本针对外籍劳工的诸如提供食宿费补助、加班补助、计件奖励等都已消失。
A supplier of raw materials for shipbuilding in Busan said yesterday that subsidies for accommodation, overtime and piecework incentives for foreign workers had disappeared in the wake of recent government regulations.
随着52小时周工时制的实施，外籍劳工纷纷与所在公司产生矛盾。
With the introduction of a 52-hour week, foreign workers have been at odds with their companies.
更出乎政府意料的是，新规对韩国整体就业情况也带来负面影响。
To the government's surprise, the new rules have also had a negative impact on overall employment in South Korea.
韩国统计厅2019年3月发布的统计结果显示，同年2月韩国员工人数超过300人的大企业就业总人数为245.9万人，与开始实施52小时工作制之前的2018年6月份相比，八个月时间减少了10.6万人。
Statistics released by Statistics Korea in March 2019 showed that the total number of people employed in large enterprises with more than 300 employees in South Korea in February was 2.459 million, a decrease of 106,000 in eight months compared with June 2018, before the 52-hour system was introduced.
韩国建国大学经济系教授金元植表示，52小时工作制实施的时间恰好是第四次工业革命的发展导致人工劳动力被取代的速度加快的时期，制度实施后，人工成本大幅上升，促使企业用器械取代人工劳动，这也导致就业岗位不断减少。
Kim Yuanzhi, a professor in the economics department at Korea Jianguo University, said the 52-hour work schedule coincided with the accelerated replacement of manual labor by the development of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, with labor costs rising sharply, prompting companies to replace manual labor with devices, which also led to job losses.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩厂获特批赶工，52小时工作制下韩国人想加班也不容易。
The mask factory has been given special permission to work, and it is not easy for South Koreans to work overtime under the 52-hour work schedule.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩厂获特批赶工，52小时工作制下韩国人想加班也不容易";。
Valar msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "对一些韩国人来说，强制“减负”后加班工资也跟着缩水了，中小企业的劳动力成本压力也随着劳动时间减少而不断增加，导致就业岗位减少。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; For some South Koreans, overtime pay has shrunk as a result of mandatory "load reduction," and labor-cost pressures on small and medium-sized enterprises have increased with fewer hours worked, leading to job losses.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
