疫情下的小农场样本：“一刀切”封路致农产品断供，没有工人回来春耕。
Samples of small farms under the epidemic: "one-size-fits-all" road closures cut off agricultural supplies and no workers returned to spring ploughing.
唐俊。
Tang Jun.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
拍摄：石嫣记者：唐俊 编辑：沈霄戈“ 很多小农场都因为运输问题而受到影响。
Film: Shi Yan reporter: Tang Jun editor: Shen Xiaogo "A lot of small farms are affected by the transportation problem.
”大米仅有几百斤库存，一些食品已经售罄，这种情况下一个小型农产品电商平台最多再正常运转两周，石嫣急坏了。
With only a few hundred pounds of rice in stock and some food sold out, Shi Yan had winced as a small agribusiness platform functioned normally for at most two weeks.
石嫣是北京顺义“分享收获”农场的主人。
Irene Shi is the owner of Shunyi shared harvest farm in Beijing.
她在中国人民大学读博士期间去美国农场实习，回国后创立了中国第一批CSA（社区支持农业）农场。
She worked as an intern on an American farm at Renmin University of China, where she founded the first Chinese CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) farms.
目前农场有400亩土地在耕作，主要农作物是蔬菜，兼有少量果树，同时也饲养了一些家禽。
The farm currently has 400 acres of land under cultivation, with vegetables as its main crop and a small number of fruit trees, as well as some poultry.
随着农场业务逐渐成熟，开始与其他地方的生态小农合作种植粮食，或者直接采购农产品卖给自己的会员及零散消费者。
As farm operations mature, they begin to grow food in partnership with eco-small farmers elsewhere, or directly purchase agricultural produce for sale to their own members and scattered consumers.
受疫情影响，多地的农产品无法运出，平台面临全面断货的风险。
Affected by the epidemic, many agricultural products cannot be shipped out, the platform faces the risk of a complete shutdown.
大米运不出村，生猪进不了屠宰场目前分享收获农场的电商平台上大概有150种产品，来自近百位供应商，大约一半供应商存在运输困难，导致货物无法送达。
Rice is not delivered to the village and pigs cannot be brought to the slaughterhouse. About 150 products are currently on the commercial platform of the harvester farm, from nearly 100 suppliers, and about half of the suppliers have difficulties transporting the goods, making it impossible to deliver them.
石嫣对界面新闻表示，包括黑龙江五常的大米、甘肃的猪肉、天津的莲藕、怀柔的板栗、烟台的苹果、云南的沙琪玛和饼干等供货，目前都无法运出。
Irene told the Interface News, including Heilongjiang five permanent rice, Gansu pork, lotus root in Tianjin, Huairou chestnut, Yantai apples, Yunnan Shaqima and biscuits, etc., can not be shipped at present.
大米是最紧缺的产品之一，现在库存只有几百斤，这周之内就会断供，其他产品最多也只能再维持两周的销售。
Rice, one of the most sought-after products, now has only a few hundred pounds in stock and will be out of stock within a week, with sales of other products limited to a maximum of two weeks.
农场的大米来自黑龙江五常，是与当地农户五叔合作种植的。
Farm rice from the five permanent Heilongjiang, with the local farmers five uncle planting.
五叔告诉界面新闻记者，他所在的村庄实行交通管制，不让村民随意进出，更不让货车进出，大米无法运出来。
Uncle Five told the Interface News that his village imposed traffic controls that prevented villagers from entering or leaving, let alone trucks, and that rice could not be shipped out.
五叔的仓库中还有2万斤稻谷，是去年11月份左右收割的。
He also had 20, 000 pounds of rice in his warehouse, which he harvested around November last year.
根据以往的经验，大米销售基本在春节前后结束，如果再有一个月大米运不出来，后面销售起来也很困难。
According to past experience, rice sales basically end around the Spring Festival, if a month more rice can not be delivered, it is difficult to sell later.
农场与五叔的合作模式为预付款式，即农场会提前将货款付给五叔，并参与到水稻的种植过程中。
The cooperative model between the farm and Uncle Five was an advance payment, in which the farm paid Uncle Five in advance and was involved in rice cultivation.
如果这些大米最后销售不出去，损失将落在石嫣身上。
If the rice doesn't sell, the loss will fall on Irene.
甘肃的猪肉也遇到同样的问题。
Pork in Gansu suffers from the same problem.
吴平在甘肃省庆阳市开了一个养猪场，他所在的村限制人员和车辆随意流动，并在所有道路设了关卡，猪肉无法运出。
Wu Ping opened a pig farm in Gansu province's Qingyang City. His village restricts the free movement of people and vehicles and places roadblocks on all roads so that pork cannot be shipped out.
吴平还和界面新闻记者提到他遇到了另外一个问题，之前常用的一家小型屠宰场还没获得许可恢复营业，而大型屠宰场并不屠宰小养殖户的生猪，这也导致吴平的业务无法持续下去。
Wu also mentioned to the interface reporter that he had a problem with a small slaughterhouse that had not yet been licensed to resume operations, and that the large slaughterhouses did not slaughter pigs from small farmers, which also made it impossible for Wu Ping's business to continue.
分享收获农场与吴平的合作采取的是订货制，这就意味着如果猪肉滞销，将会给吴平造成不小的损失。
The cooperation between the harvest farm and Wu Ping is based on an order system, which means that if the pork is unsaleable, it will cause Wu Ping a lot of losses.
即使道路畅通的地方，由于快递还未全面复工，也存在物流配送成本的问题。
Even if the road is unblocked, because express delivery has not yet fully resumed work, there are logistics distribution costs.
河北的三和雨顺农场给分享收获农场供应花生，当地现在只有顺丰在正常营业，货量大的话运价至少是“三通一达”快递的两倍。
The Sanhe Rushun Farm in Hebei, which supplies peanuts to the shared harvest farm, is now open only to Shunfeng, which charges at least twice the price of "three direct links one da" couriers.
物流两端都是小型农场，难以承担突然高出的成本。
At both ends of the logistics chain are small farms that cannot afford suddenly high costs.
除会员外，光顾农场微店的散客每年有上万人次，年销售额四五百万元，如果道路运输长时间无法彻底恢复，预计会造成今年不少损失。
Apart from the members, there are tens of thousands of retail customers who patronize the farm microshops each year with an annual turnover of $45 million. If road transport fails to recover completely for a long time, it is expected to cause considerable losses this year.
不少农产品的销售运输也遇到了类似的问题。
Similar problems have been encountered in the sale and transport of many agricultural products.
北京昌平的草莓基地，每年主要依靠春节前后的参观采摘进行销售，而今年无法组织采摘，临时又难找其他销售渠道。
Beijing Changping strawberry base, mainly rely on the Spring Festival before and after the sale of the harvest, but this year can not organize picking, temporary and difficult to find other sales channels.
界面新闻了解到，昌平目前大约有上万斤草莓滞销。
Interface news learned that Changping has about tens of thousands of strawberry unsalable.
换不了供应商每年春节分享收获农场都会暂停一段时间营业，一般到初八再恢复配送。
Can not change the supplier to share the annual Spring Festival harvest farms will be suspended for a period of business, generally to resume distribution on the eighth day.
今年由于疫情影响，为了保证会员食材不断供，在初二就开始配送，但很快就发现外地货物运不过来。
This year due to the impact of the epidemic, in order to ensure that members of the food supply, began to distribute in the second day of junior high school, but soon found that foreign cargo can not be delivered.
根据以往经验，春节期间大家对食材配送需求不是很高，所以农场并没有准备多少库存。
According to past experience, during the Spring Festival you do not have high demand for food distribution, so the farm did not prepare much stock.
现在大家都宅在家中采购需求增多，很多品种都已经断货了。
Now everyone is home in the increased demand for procurement, many varieties have been out of stock.
本来石嫣预计情况正月十五会有所缓解，这样农场撑过一两周就可以正常营业，但目前看来仍未可知。
Irene had expected the situation to ease by the 15th of the first month so that the farm could be open for a week or two, but it was still unknown.
而且供应商涉及全国各地，各地执行的措施也不一样，很难预计何时完全正常收到供货。
Moreover, suppliers are spread throughout the country and the measures implemented vary from place to place, making it difficult to predict when deliveries will be fully normal.
有机农业建立合作是一个漫长的过程。
Establishing cooperation in organic agriculture is a long process.
五叔为农场种水稻的前几年，石嫣会经常前往五常进行监工和检测，同事也会前往五常劳动，保证产出的大米符合标准。
In the years before Uncle Wu began planting rice for the farm, Shi Yan would regularly visit the P5 to check and supervise their work, and colleagues would visit the P5 to make sure the rice produced met standards.
对于甘肃吴平的猪肉也一样，石嫣需要了解猪的养殖过程，吴平需要了解怎样切割猪肉消费者最容易接受，双方逐步磨合。
Like Wu Ping's pork in Gansu Province, Shi Yan needed to understand the process of pig farming. Wu Ping needed to know how to cut pork consumers most easily.
也有朋友愿意提供猪肉的供应，但是农场无法接受。
There are also friends who are willing to provide pork, but the farm can't accept it.
石嫣称，基于食品安全和有机标准，与供应商更重要的是信任的建立，这意味着农场无法轻易更换供货来源，以填补目前的库存空缺。
Based on food safety and organic standards, what matters most to them, Irene says, is trust-building with suppliers, which means farms can't easily replace supply sources to fill existing inventory gaps.
目前农场约有1200户会员，基于信任大部分已经习惯从农场下单采购。
The farm currently has about 1,200 members, and most of them are used to buying from farms based on trust.
如果农场部分产品断供，他们也面临重新选择食材来源的问题。
If parts of the farm are out of service, they also face the problem of re-sourcing.
另外，由于蔬菜是自己农场种植，供应上没有太大问题，但劳动力极其紧缺。
In addition, since vegetables are grown on their own farms, there is not much supply problem, but there is an acute shortage of labour.
目前分享收获农场有20多位工人，大部分来自外地农村。
At present, there are more than 20 workers on the shared harvest farm, mostly from rural areas.
相较于城市，部分农村的交通管制更严格，在加上大巴停运，一半的工人都被困在老家无法返回。
Traffic control is more stringent in some rural areas than in urban areas, and half of the workers are trapped in their homes and unable to return when buses are stopped.
由于人工短缺，以前会员可自选配菜已经改为统一配菜，这样可以节省劳动力。
Due to the shortage of manpower, members can choose their own side dish has been changed to a uniform side dish, which can save labor.
更重要的是，如果工人再无法返回农场工作，自产蔬菜的生产也会受到影响。
More importantly, if workers are no longer able to return to their farms to work, the production of home-grown vegetables will also be affected.
“马上春耕要开始了，我们要搭建大棚、播种、翻地、施肥、除草，如果他们回不来，这些工作无法正常开展，直接影响到后续的蔬菜供应。
"Now that spring ploughing is about to begin, we have to build sheds, sow seeds, turn the ground, fertilize and weed, and if they cannot get back to work, it will not work properly and directly affect the subsequent supply of vegetables.
”这是石嫣最担心的问题。
"This was Irene's biggest worry.
蔬菜供应是农场的主业，加上农业生产有一定的周期性，如果生产无法跟上，后续农场运营会受到更大影响。
Vegetable supply is the main occupation of the farm, which, together with the cyclical nature of agricultural production, will have a greater impact on subsequent farm operations if production does not keep pace.
政策保障盼落实到位早在1月29日，交通部就发出过通知，要求交通运输做到“一断三不断”，即阻断病毒传播渠道，保障公路交通网络不断、应急运输绿色通道不断、必要的群众生产生活物资的运输通道不断。
As early as January 29, the Ministry of Transport issued a notice to stop the transmission of the virus, guarantee the continuous road transport network, the continuous emergency transportation green passage, and the necessary mass production and living materials transport corridors.
但不少地方，特别是一些农村地区采取了“一刀切”的做法，出现了“硬隔离”，即完全禁止人员和货物进出。
But many places, especially in rural areas, have adopted a "one size fits all" approach, with a "hard separation" - a complete ban on the movement of people and goods.
2月11日，在国务院联防联控机制举办的新闻发布会上，交通部运输服务司徐亚华提到，在疫情防控的早期，部分地方采取了道路封堵、车辆劝返等一些措施，对控制疫情的蔓延起到了一定作用；但同时，对人民群众的正常生活、物资运输以及农民工返岗都带来了一定程度的不便。
On February 11, at a press conference organised by the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, Xu Yahua, the transportation service department of the Ministry of Communications, mentioned that in the early days of epidemic prevention and control, some measures, such as road blocking and vehicle persuasion, had played a role in controlling the spread of the epidemic.
徐亚华再次强调，各地要严格落实“一断三不断”及“五个严禁”，并明确在疫情防控期间，将粮、油、肉、禽、蛋、奶、果、蔬等生活必需品纳入应急运输的保障范围，要求各地落实好绿色通道政策，保障优先便捷通行。
Xu Ya-hua reiterated that all localities should strictly implement the "One and Three Continues" and the "Five Prohibitions," and made it clear that during the period of epidemic prevention and control, grain, oil, meat, poultry, eggs, milk, fruits and vegetables should be included in the scope of emergency transportation.
“像山东寿光这种规模化的生产基地对外运输可能还好些，小农户或者中小型农业生产者，在运输方面受到了更大的影响。
"Large-scale production bases such as Shouguang in Shandong may be better shipped abroad, and small farmers or small and medium-sized agricultural producers are more affected in terms of transport.
”石嫣说。
"said Irene.
据她了解，除了给自己供货的农户，很多小农场都因为运输问题而受到影响，都在盼着交通物流运输尽快恢复正常。
As far as she knew, in addition to their own supply of farmers, many small farms are affected by transport problems, are looking forward to transport logistics as soon as possible return to normal.
（文中吴平为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(Wu Ping in the text for alias) unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的小农场样本：“一刀切”封路致农产品断供，没有工人回来春耕。
Samples of small farms under the epidemic: "one-size-fits-all" road closures cut off agricultural supplies and no workers returned to spring ploughing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情下的小农场样本：“一刀切”封路致农产品断供，没有工人回来春耕";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; small farm sample in an epidemic: "one size fits all" road closures that shut down agricultural production, and no workers at & quot; spring ploughing;;
var msg_desc = "很多小农场都因为运输问题而受到影响。
var msg _ desc = & quot; many small farms were affected by transportation problems.
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
