柳叶刀：暂未发现新冠病毒母婴垂直传播证据，不排除接触传播。
Lancet: No evidence of vertical transmission of HCV from mother to child was found, and contact transmission was not excluded.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
（资料图）图片来源：视觉中国记者：刘芳“ 由于论文分析的病例数有限，且研究期限较短，需要进行更多随访研究以进一步保护感染新冠肺炎孕产妇及新生儿的安全和健康。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn Liufang: Because of the limited number of cases analysed and the short duration of the study, more follow-up studies are needed to further protect the safety and health of pregnant women and newborns with pneumonia
”2月12日，来自武汉大学中南医院、北京大学第一医院和美国西北大学的14位妇产科专家们在权威医学杂志《柳叶刀》发表联合署名文章称，就目前的情况来看，尚未发现新冠肺炎（COVID-19）有母婴垂直传播的迹象。
On February 12, 14 obstetrician-gynaecologists from Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, Peking University Hospital No. 1 and Northwestern University published a joint report in the leading medical journal Lancet.
同日，北京大学第三医院乔杰也在《柳叶刀》发表评论文章称，不排除母婴接触传播，需要进行更多调研以进一步保护感染新冠肺炎孕产妇及新生儿的安全和健康。
In a commentary in The Lancet on the same day, Qiao Jie, the third hospital of Peking University, said mother-to-child transmission was not ruled out and more research was needed to further protect the safety and health of pregnant women and newborns with pneumonia.
在上述名为《9例新冠肺炎感染孕妇临床特征及母婴垂直传播可能性的回顾性分析》的论文中，湖北省产前诊断与优生临床医学研究中心主任张元珍教授等作者，在对9例被确诊为新冠肺炎的孕产妇样本进行比对分析后表示，目前未发现任何证据表明在与妊娠有关的生物样本及婴儿生物样本中存在新型冠状病毒颗粒。
In the above-mentioned paper, "Retrospective analysis of the clinical characteristics of 9 cases of newly infected pregnant women and the possibility of vertical transmission," the authors, Professor Zhang Yuanzhen, director of Hubei Province's Center for Antenatal Diagnosis and eugenic Clinical Medicine, said no evidence of the presence of new coronavirus particles in pregnancy-related biological samples or in infant biological samples was found.
《柳叶刀》2月12日最新论文截图。
A screenshot of The Lancet's latest paper, Feb. 12.
在论文中，专家们回顾性分析了2020年1月20日至1月31日在武汉大学中南医院住院的9例新冠肺炎确诊孕产妇的临床记录、实验室结果和胸部CT扫描结果。
In the paper, the experts retrospectively analyzed the clinical records, laboratory results and chest CT scan results of 9 cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia in Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, from January 20 to January 31, 2020.
截至2月4日，这9名孕妇已通过剖腹产方式顺利产子。
As at 4 February, the nine pregnant women had delivered their children successfully by Caesarean section.
在此之间，专家们通过检测羊水、脐带血和新生儿咽拭子样本来评估母婴内垂直传播的证据。
In between, the experts assessed evidence of vertical transmission in mothers and children by testing samples of amniotic fluid, cord blood and swabs of newborns.
在第一次哺乳后，专家们还从患者身上采集和检测了母乳样本。
After the first breast-feeding, experts also took and tested breast milk samples from patients.
9名确诊新冠肺炎孕妇的胸部CT 扫描片。
Chest CT scan of 9 pregnant women with newly diagnosed coronary pneumonia.
来源：《柳叶刀》由于孕妇和新生儿的特殊性，是否存在母婴垂直传播成了备受关注的问题。
Source: "Lancet" due to the particularity of pregnant women and newborns, the existence of vertical transmission of mother and child has become a concern.
2月12日，《柳叶刀》也刊发了北大第三医院妇产科生殖医学中心乔杰医生针对《9例新冠肺炎感染孕妇临床特征及母婴垂直传播可能性的回顾性分析》的评论文章。
On 12 February, The Lancet also published a review by Dr. Jodje of the Obstetrics and Gynecology and Reproductive Medicine Centre of Peking University's Third Hospital on the clinical features of nine cases of nosocomial pneumonia in pregnant women and the possibility of vertical transmission from mother to child.
乔杰表示，虽然这篇论文的研究样本数量仅为9人，但在目前的紧急情况下，这项研究结果仍然对中国及其它地区的预防和临床实践具有重要价值。
Although the sample size of the study was just nine, the findings are still important for prevention and clinical practice in China and elsewhere in the current emergency, he said.
对于近日新闻报道的新生儿被确诊感染新冠肺炎的现象，乔杰认为，不排除接触性传播。
Recent news reports of newborns being diagnosed with pneumonia in the new crown, Giorgio says contact transmission is not ruled out.
其中一名在出生后17天被确诊的新生儿与两例确诊患者有密切接触史（婴儿的母亲和月嫂）。
One newborn, diagnosed 17 days after birth, had close contact with two confirmed cases (the mother of the baby and the sister-in-law).
另一名被报道的新生儿于出生后36小时被确诊，也不能排除有密切接触史的可能性。
Another reported newborn was diagnosed 36 hours after birth, and the possibility of close contact cannot be ruled out.
乔杰在文章中强调，由于论文分析的病例数有限，而且研究期限较短，需要进行更多的随访研究以进一步保护感染新冠肺炎孕产妇及新生儿的安全和健康。
In his paper, he stressed that because of the limited number of cases analysed and the short duration of the study, more follow-up studies were needed to further protect the safety and health of pregnant women and newborns with pneumonia.
另据《北京青年报》报道，2月10日，湖北省妇幼保健院新生儿科夏世文主任在《Translational Pediatrics》发表题为《对新冠肺炎产妇所生10例新生儿的临床分析》（Clinical Analysis of 10 Neonates Born to Mothers with 2019-nCoV Pneumonia）的文章，据悉这是首份针对中国新生儿新冠肺炎感染的相关研究。
According to the Beijing Youth Daily, on February 10, the director of neonatology at Hubei Provincial Maternal and Child Health Center published the article "Clinical Analysis of 10 Neonates Born to Mothers with 2019-nCoV Pneumonia," in the journal Transnational Pediatrics.
论文同样认为，母亲围生期感染新冠肺炎对新生儿可能存在不良影响，但暂未发现新型冠状病毒存在母婴垂直传播的证据。
The paper also suggested that the perinatal transmission of new coronavirus to newborns may have a negative impact, but did not find evidence of vertical transmission of the new coronavirus.
夏世文主任介绍，自2019年12月以来，以武汉首发的新型冠状病毒感染引起了国内外广泛关注，新生儿作为一个特殊的群体，由于其免疫功能发育不成熟，容易受到各种病原体的感染，但目前因缺乏对新冠病毒感染产妇及新生儿影响的研究，导致对新冠病毒感染高危新生儿的防控缺乏足够依据。
Since December 2019, Wuhan-based new coronavirus infection has aroused widespread concern at home and abroad, said Xia Shiwen, director of the department. As a special group, newborns are vulnerable to various pathogens because of their immature immune function.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
柳叶刀：暂未发现新冠病毒母婴垂直传播证据，不排除接触传播。
Lancet: No evidence of vertical transmission of HCV from mother to child was found, and contact transmission was not excluded.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "柳叶刀：暂未发现新冠病毒母婴垂直传播证据，不排除接触传播";。
var msg _ title = & quot; lancet: No evidence of vertical transmission of the new crown virus has been found so far, not excluding contact with & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "由于论文分析的病例数有限，且研究期限较短，需要进行更多随访研究以进一步保护感染新冠肺炎孕产妇及新生儿的安全和健康。
var msg _ desc = & quot; given the limited number of cases analysed in the paper and the short duration of the study, additional follow-up research is needed to further protect the safety and health of pregnant women and newborns with new crown pneumonia.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
