艺术类校考延期，艺培机构在找出路。
Art school examination postponed, the arts institutions are looking for a way out.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 界面教育。
Education at the interface of the following articles.
Author 柳书琪。
Author Liu Shuqi.
界面教育。
Interface education.
独立思考 读懂教育 | 界面·财联社旗下教育频道。
INDEPENDENT RESEARCH & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & FCO's education channel.
图片来源：图虫记者 |柳书琪“ 线下招生渠道受阻后，已有艺培机构开始重视在线招生。
Source: Toothworm Reporter & # 124; Liu Shu-qi "After the obstruction of the online admissions channel, has begun to pay attention to online recruitment.
”每年2月本是艺考生备战各高校校考的关键时期，但今年受新冠病毒肺炎疫情影响，不少学生和艺考培训机构不得不调整计划。
"February is a crucial time for candidates to prepare for college entrance examinations, but this year's outbreak of the virus has forced many students and institutions to adjust their plans.
1月23日，中央美术学院宣布推迟原定于2月22日至23日举行的专业考试，学校将视疫情发展对考试作另行安排。
On 23 January, the Central Academy of Fine Arts announced that it had postponed the professional examination, originally scheduled for 22 to 23 February, and that the school would make alternative arrangements for the examination depending on the evolution of the epidemic.
同样推迟专业考试的还有中央戏剧学院、清华大学美术学院、北京电影学院等多所艺术类院校。
Also delaying the professional examination are the Central Drama Academy, Tsinghua University School of Fine Arts, Beijing Film Institute and other art institutions.
据北京市教委统计，2020年在京共有46所高校组织艺术类、高水平艺术团等特殊类型测试，其中大部分院校仍未组织考试。
According to the Beijing Education Commission, in 2020, 46 colleges and universities in Beijing will organize special types of tests, such as art and high-level art ensembles.
艺考主要包含每年12月至次年1月的省级统考，2至3月各院校再组织校考，而此时正值艺术生冲刺备战校考之际。
The examinations are held every year from December to January at the provincial level, and from February to March they are organized at the same time as the art students are preparing for the school examinations.
完成校考后，他们还需要补习文化课，以迎战高考。
After finishing the college entrance examination, they also need to take remedial cultural classes to meet the college entrance examination.
校考延期后，艺考生不得不做好应战专业课与文化课的两手准备。
After the postponement of the school examination, arts candidates have to do a good job of professional and cultural preparation.
“专业考试没有结束，就很难回去专心复习文化课。
"It's hard to go back and concentrate on my cultural studies until the professional exam is over
”艺考生张琼告诉界面教育。
Artist Michelle Cheung told Interface Education.
另一方面，各高校对艺术生的高考文化课要求越来越高。
On the other hand, colleges and universities demand more and more college entrance examination cultural courses for art students.
据教育部历年发布的特殊类型招生基本要求，在2018年及以前，艺考生高考文化课录取控制分数要求不低于当地二本线的65%，2019年已提升至70%以上。
According to the basic requirements for special types of enrollment issued by the Ministry of Education in the past year, by 2018, the requirements for admission control scores for arts candidates in the college entrance examination will not be less than 65% of the local two-line, which has increased to more than 70% in 2019.
另外，高校还不得为了完成招生计划而降低初次划定的最低录取分数线。
In addition, institutions of higher learning may not lower the initial minimum entry points in order to complete the admission plan.
“现在是两方面都抓不起来。
"Now it is impossible to grasp either.
”艺考生王方说。
"said Wang Fang, an art candidate.
她认为，目前大部分中学将教学转至线上，这对很久没接触文化课的艺考生来说更难跟上了。
She believes most secondary schools are now shifting to online instruction, which is harder for those who haven't had access to culture for a long time.
中国传媒大学教师张充认为，文化课录取标准逐渐上涨，成绩中游的学生最易受到影响。
Zhang Chong, a teacher at the Communication University of China, thinks that the admission criteria for cultural courses are gradually rising. Middle-achievers are the most vulnerable.
“‘学霸’和‘学渣’都不会受到外在环境的干扰，中间的学生再缺乏监督，或滋生惰性，文化课极有可能不达标。
"Neither the bully nor the dregs will be disturbed by the outside environment, and the middle students will no longer be supervised or will breed inertia.
”他对界面教育表示，部分高校艺术类专业甚至因为分数线设定，出现实际录取人数低于招生计划的情况。
He told Interface Education that some university arts majors even had lower admissions than planned because of fractional intakes.
对此，张充建议艺考生先以文化课学习为重点，分配比重应在70%以上。
In this regard, Zhang Chong suggested that arts candidates to first focus on cultural studies, the proportion of distribution should be more than 70%.
表演培训机构“King 艺考”的赵老师认为，重视文化课也应该是现阶段学生的备考策略。
The acting training institution "King Arts" teacher Zhao believes that attention to cultural classes should also be the current stage of student preparation strategy.
即便校考被取消，艺术生仍可以通过省统考或文化课分数线进入综合类大学艺术专业。
Even if the examination is canceled, the art students can enter the art majors of comprehensive universities through provincial examinations or cultural classes.
除文化课外，针对艺术专业课的培训也成为了困扰学生们的难题。
In addition to culture extracurricular, the training for art major courses has become a difficult problem for students.
近日，位于北京市朝阳区的一所美术培训机构也因擅自开课，被市场监管局吊销营业执照。
An art training institute in Beijing's Chaoyang district has been stripped of its business license by the market regulator after it opened classes without permission.
线下培训被全面叫停后，艺考培训机构也陷入停滞。
After the off-line training was stopped completely, the art examination training institutions also stagnated.
据赵老师介绍，其机构从去年7月开始为学生集训，预计到今年2月，学生备考状态应达到最佳水平。
Zhao said his organization, which began training students in July last year, expects to have the best preparation for the exam by February.
但校考延期，学生状态会因缺乏练习下降，并不利于备考。
However, because of the delay of school examination, the student's state will decline due to lack of practice.
美术生王方也向界面教育表示，由于缺乏老师指导和画室氛围，停课后她独自在家练习的效率很低。
Wang Fang, an art student, also told Interface Education that she practiced at home alone after school hours because of a lack of teachers' guidance and studio atmosphere.
对艺考培训机构而言，高度依赖线下教学，转型线上并不容易。
The transition line is not easy for an art exam training institution, which relies heavily on offline teaching.
赵老师告诉界面教育，表演专业讲究“声台形表”（声乐、台词、形体、表演），其中仅有台词课转至线上，其余三门均处于停课状态。
Zhao teacher told the interface education, performing professional stress on the "sound table" (vocal music, lines, body, performance), only lines to the line, the other three are suspended.
“即便是台词课，传递台词的眼神、情绪、感受也和当面教学完全不一样。
"Even in a speaking class, the eyes, emotions and feelings that deliver a line are completely different from those in person.
”她说。
'she said.
张充对界面教育表示，由于绝大部分艺考培训的专业知识已教授完毕，现阶段不建议学生盲目上网课，而应权衡如何学习更有效率。
Zhang Chong to the interface education, because the vast majority of professional knowledge of the examination training has been taught, students do not recommend blind online classes at this stage, but should weigh how to learn more efficiently.
“学生可以着重关注疫情进展、多加思考，相关话题很有可能会在即兴评述中出现。
"Students can focus on the progress of the epidemic and think more about it, and the topic is likely to come up in impromptu comments.
”他说。
'he said.
此次校考延期的影响不仅波及学生，也对艺考培训机构提出挑战。
The impact of the postponement of the examination not only affected students, but also posed challenges to the arts examination training institutions.
赵老师告诉界面教育，由于校考时间未定，培训老师有可能面临既要给新学生开课，又要给老学生备考的双重教学压力。
Zhao told the interface education that because the school examination time is not fixed, the training teachers are likely to face the dual teaching pressure of giving classes to new students and preparing old students for exams.
工作量变大，但费用却无法额外收取。
The volume of work has increased, but the cost cannot be charged extra.
该机构原定于3月和4月的招生季，现也已无限期延后。
The agency's recruitment season, originally scheduled for March and April, has also been postponed indefinitely.
此外，该机构在北京市朝阳区租用的五层楼店面也处于闲置状态。
The five-storey storefront rented by the agency in Beijing's Chaoyang district is also idle.
即便是往年艺考空闲期，场地也可以用作开办表演兴趣班或课外活动。
Even in the free time of previous art exams, venues can be used for performing interest classes or extracurricular activities.
“但现在就只能空着，什么活动也办不了。
'But there's nothing left to do now, and nothing to do.
”赵老师表示，她所在的机构原本计划年内在外地开设加盟分校，但计划是否能顺利进行也已成未知数。
Ms Zhao said her organization had planned to open branches outside the country by the end of the year, but it was not clear whether the plan would go ahead.
线上招生并未停止。
Online admissions have not stopped.
赵老师表示，他们仍在微博、抖音、艺考生App上进行正常招生，这些渠道也缓解了线下门店的经营焦虑。
Mr. Zhao said they still enroll regularly on Weibo, Chatter and App, channels that also ease business anxiety in off-line stores.
另外，艺考培训客单价较高，学生寻找信息会较其它类培训更有针对性，机构并不用担心线上流量转化率。
In addition, there is a higher unit price for TOEIC trainees, students find information more targeted than other types of training, and institutions do not have to worry about online traffic conversion rates.
受疫情影响，信息化已成为教育企业们的关注重点。
Affected by the epidemic, informationization has become the focus of educational enterprises.
虽受限于场地面积和师生交互，艺考培训仍无法完全线上教学，但在线授课与招生推广等新尝试将带来新契机。
Although limited by the area of the venue and teacher-student interaction, arts exam training can not fully online teaching, but new attempts such as online teaching and enrollment promotion will bring new opportunities.
应受访者要求，张琼、王方为化名未经授权 禁止转载。
At the request of interviewees, Zhang Qiong, Wang Fang for alias unauthorized reprint.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
艺术类校考延期，艺培机构在找出路。
Art school examination postponed, the arts institutions are looking for a way out.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "艺术类校考延期，艺培机构在找出路";。
var msg _ title = & quot; arts school exam postponed, and Art & amp; Culture is looking for & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "线下招生渠道受阻后，已有艺培机构开始重视在线招生。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Apec's focus on online admissions came after its offline admissions channels were blocked.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
