送走奶奶和爸爸，武汉女孩的漫长一月。
Take away Grandma and Dad, the long month of Wuhan girl.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
武汉女孩薇薇到现在也不确定妈妈是怎么感染的，她只能想到一个可能性：1月6日，家里为爷爷办了葬礼。
Wuhan girl Wei Wei is still not sure how her mother was infected, she can only think of a possibility: January 6, home for Grandpa's funeral.
当时，大部分人对「出现不明原因病毒型肺炎」的消息并不在意。
At the time, most people were not bothered by the news of "unexplained viral pneumonia."
亲戚们从武汉各地赶来。
Relatives came from all over Wuhan.
葬礼后，妈妈开始发烧，之后，爸爸和奶奶也开始发烧。
After the funeral, my mother began to have a fever, after which my father and grandmother also began to have a fever.
1月27日，奶奶去世；第二天，爸爸去世。
On January 27, my grandmother died; the next day, my father died.
死亡医学证明书上写的原因都是：新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎。
The reasons given on the medical certificate of death are: pneumonia of the new coronavirus infection.
据死亡医学证明（推断）书显示，薇薇的父亲和奶奶发病至死亡大概间隔时间均为12天。
According to the medical certificate of death (inference), the approximate interval between the illness and death of Vivian's father and grandmother was 12 days.
此时，她的妈妈仍在隔离病房治疗。
Meanwhile, her mother was still being treated in the isolation ward.
采访在1月29日进行，那是薇薇父亲离世的第二天，电话那头，她没有哭，语气平静，她一直强调，自己现在「还好」，「这个事情可以直接拿出来说」，「我也没有什么」。
The interview took place on Jan. 29, the day after Vivian's father died. She didn't cry on the other end of the line. She kept saying, "OK," "It's OK." "I don't have anything."
她曾是一个很爱哭的人，现在感觉自己好像一夜之间长大了——妈妈还在隔离病房，弟弟还未能独当一面，这个家还有太多的事情需要她处理，她没有时间伤心。
Once a crybaby, she felt as if she had grown up overnight - her mother was in the isolation ward, her brother was not alone, there were so many things for her family to deal with, and she had no time to grieve.
以下是薇薇的讲述：文｜罗芊编辑｜槐杨                     1我家里面有3个人感染，妈妈、奶奶还有爸爸。
The following is Wei Wei's story: less than three people in my house are infected, mother, grandmother and father.
奶奶前天没扛住，下午去世了；爸爸昨天早上去世，妈妈目前治疗有好转。
Grandma didn't carry it the day before yesterday and died in the afternoon. My father died yesterday morning and my mother is getting better.
最开始生病的是妈妈，我不太确定妈妈是怎么被感染的。
Mother was the first to get sick, and I'm not sure how she got the infection.
妈妈平时因为要照顾爸爸，很少到汉口，也不太会直接或者间接接触华南海鲜市场的人。
Mother usually has to take care of her father, rarely to Hankou, nor will she have direct or indirect contact with people in the South China seafood market.
唯一能想到的，是1月6日爷爷去世，家里面办丧事。
The only thing I could think of was the death of my grandfather on January 6 and the funeral in my house.
我家在武汉郊区，当时，各种亲戚从武汉各地赶过去吃饭，我猜妈妈可能是那个时候感染了。
My home in Wuhan suburb, when a variety of relatives rushed to Wuhan from all over the meal, I guess my mother may have been infected at that time.
也不知道亲戚们还有没有人被感染，我现在只顾得上自己家里。
I don't know if any of my relatives are infected. I just care about my family now.
爷爷葬礼后，妈妈就持续发烧，1月10日，妈妈开始去诊所打退烧针，稍微退一点又继续发烧。
After Grandpa's funeral, his mother continued to have a fever. On January 10, she went to the clinic to get rid of the fever.
那段时间也没有人说（肺炎的事）有多严重，但是我知道这个事情。
No one said how serious it was at the time, but I knew it.
1月13日，我让妈妈去区里的人民医院检查一下，拍了胸部X光，医生说，不是肺炎（注：武汉某区人民医院检查结果显示薇薇母亲「双下肺纹理增强，心隔正常」），我当时觉得还好，继续打针吃药就好了。
On January 13, I sent my mother to the people's hospital in the district for a check-up and a chest X-ray. The doctor said it was not pneumonia.
那时，爸爸和奶奶在家里，开始有一点点发烧。
At that time, my father and grandmother at home, began to have a little fever.
后来我想到，应该是妈妈传染给了爸爸和奶奶。
Later, I thought that my mother should have infected my father and grandmother.
但当时他们俩的症状不算严重，我只能先顾着给妈妈治疗。
But the symptoms were not serious, so I had to treat my mother first.
1月18日，我所在的公司放假了，妈妈发烧还是没好，她一晚上没睡着，很难受。
January 18, my company holiday, my mother or fever, she did not sleep all night, very uncomfortable.
我赶紧把妈妈从武汉郊区接到市区，一大早去武汉市中心医院急诊科，急诊科的医生给妈妈拍了肺部CT，诊断报告显示，妈妈双肺纹理增粗，双肺多发斑片状、条片状磨玻璃影。
I hastened to take my mother from the Wuhan suburb to the city. Early in the morning, I went to the emergency department of Wuhan Central Hospital.
医生没有很明确说妈妈是这个病（新型冠状病毒肺炎），但是我追问他，他说「很有可能是的」。
The doctor did not say clearly that his mother was suffering from the coronavirus pneumonia, but I pressed him and he said, "most likely."
他还让我们去感染科检查，那边全都是类似妈妈这样的症状。
He also asked us to have an infection check-up. It's all like mom's symptoms over there.
你知道的，试剂盒一直到现在都有点供不应求，18号的时候确诊更是很难。
You know, the kit has been in short supply until now, and it was even harder to diagnose when it was 18.
那天我们在急诊科排队打针，排了三个多小时，全是发热病人，还有很多全家人过来的，大家都戴着口罩。
We queued up at the emergency department for more than three hours, full of feverish patients and a lot of other family members, all wearing masks.
分诊台前全是人，输液室座位也全满了，排队输液的队伍大概有30米长。
The clinic was full of people, the infusion room was full, and the line was about 30 meters long.
医护人员很辛苦，每天24小时值班，我在医院看到有患者家属跟医生吵起来。
The paramedics worked very hard, 24 hours a day, and I saw family members arguing with the doctor at the hospital.
患者和医生都没有错，但是没有办法，大家真的是着急，都很绝望。
The patient and the doctor are not wrong, but there is no way, we are really anxious, very desperate.
因为没有床位，我在中心医院附近的酒店开了一间房，每天白天送妈妈去医院打针，晚上把她安顿在酒店，我回住处。
Since there were no beds, I opened a room in the hotel near the central hospital. I took my mother to the hospital by day, put her in the hotel at night, and I went back to my apartment.
因为没有特效药，妈妈打了3天抗肺炎并发症的药。
As there was no specific drug, my mother took three days of anti-pneumonia complications.
医生说，他们只能做到这些，剩下的要靠妈妈自身的抵抗力。
Doctors say they can only do this, the rest depends on the mother's own resistance.
为了提高妈妈的抵抗力，除了吃有营养的东西，还可以注射免疫球蛋白，这个东西很贵。
In order to improve the mother's resistance, in addition to eating nutritious things, but also can be injected immunoglobulin, this thing is very expensive.
我感觉有一点点希望都要抓住，去医院附近的药店问，正常是500块左右一瓶，那天卖到700块。
I felt like I needed to hold on to any hope. I went to the drugstore near the hospital and asked if it was 500 bucks a bottle and 700 bucks that day.
又打听到武汉有一条街都是卖这种药的，去到那边，550一瓶，我买了9瓶。
Also learned that there is a street in Wuhan are selling this medicine, to go over there, 550 bottles, I bought nine bottles.
中心医院的医生建议，免疫球蛋白要按人的体重来算，那9瓶全给妈妈打上了。
Doctors at the Central Hospital suggested that the immunoglobulin should be based on a person's weight and that all nine bottles should be given to the mother.
我到处托关系帮妈妈找床位，始终找不到，只能准备把妈妈往老家那边的医院送。
I entrusted a relationship to help my mother find a bed, always could not find, can only be prepared to send her mother to the hospital across the home.
郊区医院肯定没有市区这边的医疗设备、各种环境好。
Suburban hospitals certainly don't have the medical facilities and amenities on this side of town.
1月22日，我开车送妈妈回郊区住院，半路上接到电话，武汉市汉口空军医院有一张空床位，我立马掉头，过来办了住院。
On January 22, I drove my mother back to the suburb and got a call on the way. I had an empty bed at Hankou Air Force Hospital in Wuhan.
空军医院的医生告诉我，免疫球蛋白可以打，但不能一次打9瓶。
Doctors at Air Force Hospital told me that immunoglobulins could be beaten, but not nine at a time.
我这才知道，之前给妈妈打太多了，但那时妈妈有点严重，我没有办法。
I just know, before to mother hit too much, but at that time my mother was a bit serious, I have no way.
我又去买免疫球蛋白，又涨价了。
I went back to buy immunoglobulin, and it went up again.
这一次，我买了16瓶备着。
This time, I bought 16 bottles and kept them.
在药店门口排队采买物资的武汉群众图源中国日报2帮妈妈办好了住院后，1月23日一大早，我又赶回郊区的家安顿爸爸和奶奶，他们俩发烧的情况越来越严重了。
After my mother was admitted to the hospital, I returned to my suburban home early on January 23 to settle down with my father and grandmother. Their fever became worse and worse.
爸爸是高血压病人，中风7年，生活不能自理，偏瘫，一直有护工看着。
Father is hypertensive patient, stroke 7 years, life cannot take care of oneself, hemiplegia, have nurse to watch all the time.
爸爸胖胖的，很重，我搬不动他，找了一些熟人帮忙，一起把爸爸送到区里的人民医院，好不容易多加了床位，住上院了。
Dad was fat and heavy. I couldn't move him. I got some acquaintances to help me. Together, I took my father to the People's Hospital in the district.
在区人民医院，爸爸和奶奶住在同一个隔离区不同的病房。
At the District People's Hospital, my father and grandmother lived in separate wards in the same colony.
中风后，爸爸有点像个小孩，每天嚷嚷，想要抽烟，想要吃东西。
After the stroke, he was a little bit like a child, yelling, wanting to smoke and eating.
现在他病了，住在病房，我怕他影响别人，嘱咐他，乖一点，听话一点，多吃东西。
Now that he was ill and living in the ward, I was afraid that he might influence others, telling him to behave better, be obedient and eat more.
他说好。
He said yes.
我走的时候，他坐在轮椅上，等着姑父铺床。
When I left, he was in a wheelchair, waiting for my uncle to make his bed.
他很疲惫，要睡着了似的，但我跟他说话的时候，他会应我。
He was tired and going to sleep, but he would answer me when I talked to him.
我记得他发烧接近39度，脸特别红。
I remember him with a fever of nearly 39 degrees and a particularly red face.
从爸爸病房出来，我又去奶奶的病房，看到奶奶戴着口罩在睡觉，感觉她特别难受。
Out of my father's ward, I went to Grandma's ward and saw Grandma sleeping in her mask, which made her feel terrible.
被子掉下来一半，我给她盖好，这时，奶奶睁开眼睛看了看我，我喊她，「奶奶」。
Half way down the quilt, I covered it up. Then Grandma opened her eyes and looked at me. I called to her, "Grandma."
她说，她特别难受，怕是熬不过去。
She said that she was so unhappy that she was afraid she would not make it.
我只能安慰她，多吃点东西会好的。
I can only comfort her that it will be all right to eat more.
临走前，她还嘱咐我，让我把妈妈照顾好。
Before she left, she told me to take good care of my mother.
其实那时候我有一点预感，这可能是最后一面。
In fact, I had a hunch that this might be the last one.
因为爸爸和奶奶都有基础疾病，爸爸高血压，奶奶有糖尿病，加上年纪大了，抵抗力差，但我还是希望有奇迹发生。
Because both my dad and grandma have basic illnesses, high blood pressure in my dad, diabetes in my grandma, and poor resistance due to old age, but I still want miracles to happen.
那天从医院出来，刚上车我就哭，一直哭。
I came out of the hospital that day, and as soon as I got on the bus, I cried and cried.
天很黑了，我跟男朋友还没有吃饭，去超市里买了一点面包，坐在车上吃，边吃边哭，边吃边哭，吃完还得赶回武汉市区，妈妈还在那边的医院。
It was dark. My boyfriend and I had not eaten yet, so we went to the supermarket to buy some bread, sat in the car and ate and cried while eating.
武汉封城了，我和妈妈在市区，爸爸和奶奶在郊区，我一个人开车去看爸爸和奶奶，不知道哪条路能走，哪条路不能走，这些都会耽误时间。
Wuhan closed the city, my mother and I in the city, my father and grandmother in the suburbs, I drove a car to see my father and grandmother, do not know which road can go, which road can not go, which will lose time.
同时，妈妈24小时随时都有可能需要我。
At the same time, Mom might need me 24 hours a day.
当你家里有病人，需要被照顾和被帮助的时候，那种无助……真的没有办法。
When you have a sick person in your family who needs to be cared for and helped, there's no way to help.
都说「患难见真情」，还有一种情况，是「患病见虚情」。
They say, "to see the truth," and in other cases, "to be ill and see false feelings."
通过疫情，你能看到很多东西。
You can see a lot through the epidemic.
这段时间我体会很深。
I've had a lot of experience.
封城那天，我要给爸爸送身份证，车程需要一个小时，要上高速。
On the day of the siege, I would send my father my ID card, an hour's drive up the freeway.
因为头天晚上我跟男朋友两个人看消息，焦虑得几乎一晚没睡，不敢开车，不敢疲劳驾驶，就在亲戚群里求助，问谁可以帮忙带身份证给我爸爸，没人回应。
Because my boyfriend and I were watching the news the night before last, worried almost all night, afraid to drive, afraid to drive tired, I asked for help from relatives, ask who can help bring my father ID card, no response.
没办法，只能我跟男朋友两个人叫车过去。
There's no other way but me and my boyfriend to call the car over.
那是晚上，下着大雨，路都封了，叫车没人接单，有人接了单，又打电话让我们退掉，或者跟我们讲价，本来200元的路要线下付款600元。
It was night. It was raining hard. The road was closed. No one took the ticket. Someone answered the ticket and asked us to return it.
后来我们运气好，碰到一个滴滴直接接单的，是个年轻人。
Then we were lucky enough to run into a young man who took orders directly from one to another.
他把我们送到汉口这边封城的入口，让我们走进去后再叫车。
He took us to the entrance of the sealed city on this side of Hankou and let us go in and call the bus.
真的很感谢那个年轻人，他说自己晚上睡不着，出来接接人。
Really thank the young man, he said he could not sleep at night, out to pick up people.
爸爸住院后，是姑父24小时守着他，姑姑也一直在帮忙。
After his father was in hospital, his uncle watched him around the clock, and his aunt helped.
前天，奶奶走了，群里面很多亲戚在悼念，但是爸爸那时候还活着。
The day before yesterday, Grandma left, many relatives in the group in mourning, but Dad was still alive.
姑父和姑姑身体也不太好，我很想哪位亲戚能去替换一下姑父，照顾一下爸爸，但是他们都在群里面悼念奶奶。
My aunts and aunts were not very well, and I wanted to know which relative would replace my uncle and take care of my father, but they mourned Grandma in the group.
我说到替姑父的事情，没有人回应，叔叔伯伯或者哥哥，都没有说话。
When I spoke of my uncle's place, no one answered. Neither my uncle nor my brother spoke.
其实我也能理解。
I can understand that, too.
这个病，谁过去都有感染风险。
This disease, who used to be at risk of infection.
但这种时候，我就会想起妈妈那句话，「谁都靠不住，要靠自己」，听起来像是气话，但现在我真觉得，还是得靠自己。
But at times like this, I think of my mother's words, "no one can rely on themselves, on their own," which sounds like angry words, but now I really feel that I have to rely on myself.
没有办法，真的没办法。
There's no way. No way.
最后，爸爸和奶奶都是在隔离病房里去世的。
Finally, both father and grandmother died in the isolation ward.
我给奶奶和爸爸买了20瓶免疫球蛋白，他们共着用，打了两天，用了一半。
I bought Grandma and Dad 20 vials of immunoglobulin, which they used together for two days and used half.
也就打了两天，就都走了。
After two days of fighting, they all left.
我也不知道后续会怎么处理，不允许家属跟过去，遗体直接送到了殡仪馆。
I don't know what to do next. I don't allow family members to follow me, and the body goes straight to the funeral home.
薇薇奶奶在桔子树下。
Grandma Vivian is under the orange tree.
她对薇薇说：桔子结满了，你快把手机拿来给我拍照图源受访者3妈妈说，她现在状态好一点了。
The orange is full, she told Vera. Bring me your cell phone and get me a picture. Respondent 3 Mother says she's better now.
刚住院那几天，她没有氧气瓶很难活动，说话也很难。
During the first few days in hospital, she had difficulty moving around without oxygen cylinders and talking hard.
现在慢慢可以脱离氧气瓶，自己爬起来洗碗、洗衣服，吃东西也变好了。
Now you can slowly get out of the oxygen bottle, get up to wash dishes, wash clothes, and eat things have become better.
她求生欲很强，很积极配合。
She has a strong desire for life and is cooperative.
开始生病时，她什么东西都吃不下，但是她知道必须得吃，逼着自己吃，到现在，她渐渐知道自己想吃什么，会向我们点菜，让我们做了送过去。
When she began to get sick, she couldn't eat anything, but she knew she had to eat and force herself to eat, and now she began to know what she wanted to eat.
有时候她想吃牛肉萝卜汤，有时候是排骨汤，舅舅要给她炒红菜苔，她还会说一句，「红菜苔莫炒咸了」。
Sometimes she wants beef carrot soup, sometimes ribs soup, my uncle wants to stir-fry her red moss, and she says, "red moss is salty."
大年初一，妈妈在「点菜」图源受访者妈妈这个人挺强大的，她知道目前把自己治好最要紧。
New Year's Day, the mother in the "order" source of the interviewee mother is quite strong, she knows that the current cure for themselves the most important.
除了这个，她也不能怎么样，她肯定很难过。
She can't do anything but that. She must be upset.
昨天早上，我去给她送东西，出发前听到爸爸走了的消息，想先瞒着她，可是家里人在微信群里说了，我没瞒住。
Yesterday morning, I went to deliver things to her. Before I left, I heard that my father had gone. I tried to hide it from her, but my family told me in the mail.
我很担心，但是见到她的时候，她看着很淡定，还嘱咐我把自己保护好。
I was worried, but when I saw her, she looked very quiet and told me to protect myself.
每次去送东西，医生和朋友都说不要送进去，但是我每次都送进去，嘱咐几句就赶紧出来。
Every time I went to deliver something, the doctor and my friend told me not to go in, but every time I did, I asked for a few words and hurried out.
我今年27岁，其实很多事情我也不知道怎么办，没有发生在自己身上的时候都是不知道怎么办。
I am 27 years old, in fact, I do not know how to do a lot of things, do not happen to their own time do not know how to do.
不到一个月，爷爷、奶奶、爸爸都不在了，我就希望妈妈能好吧。
Less than a month, grandpa, grandma, father is not in, I just hope my mother can be well.
前天知道奶奶走了的时候，真的很难受；昨天知道爸爸走了，那时候我正准备开车出去，也不能有太大情绪；现在稍微好一点，看妈妈表现出来的没有多大事，我就还好。
The day before yesterday, when I learned that Grandma had gone, it was really hard. Yesterday I knew my father was gone, and I was just about to drive away, and I couldn't be in a great mood.
我主要担心妈妈，我自己现在也不能有啥事，眼泪擦一下就还好。
I mainly worried about my mother, I can not have something now, tears wipe just fine.
其实高考那年，爸爸中风了，我就开始有长大的感觉。
In fact, the college entrance examination year, my father stroke, I began to feel grown up.
但那个时候妈妈把我们保护得很好，她一直撑着。
But at that time my mother protected us very well. She kept it up.
我们家条件还可以，开驾校，爸爸以前也做工程。
Our family conditions are OK, driving school, Dad used to do engineering.
爸爸中风后，妈妈没有让我们在生活上经济上有多大落差。
Mom didn't make much difference in our lives after Dad had a stroke.
最近这一段时间，我觉得自己才算真的长大，虽然我不想以这种方式长大。
These days, I feel like I've really grown up, although I don't want to grow up that way.
1月上旬，我家在市区买的电梯房提前交房了。
In early January, the elevator house I bought downtown was handed in in advance.
买电梯房，是为了爸爸行动方便。
The elevator house is for Dad's convenience.
那时，爷爷已经走了，妈妈说，奶奶照顾了爷爷快20年，以后要带奶奶享享福，等房子装修好了，我们要带奶奶来一块住。
At that time, Grandpa had gone, his mother said, grandmother took care of Grandpa nearly 20 years, after the grandmother to enjoy the good fortune, when the house decoration, we will take Grandma to live together.
以前过年，奶奶会做一大桌菜。
Grandma used to cook a big table for Chinese New Year.
初一到初三，家里一直挺热闹，好多人来拜年。
The first three days of junior high school, the family has been quite busy, many people visit.
今年除夕，我把iPad打开播着春晚，自己一直在刷各种新闻。
On New Year's Eve this year, I opened the iPad and broadcast the Spring Festival Gala, brushing all kinds of news.
有好消息会觉得有点希望。
Good news is a bit of a hope.
看到微博上很多病患家属分享自己的情况，特别能感同身受。
It is especially empathetic to see so many sick family members on Weibo sharing their stories.
薇薇家族群聊页面图源受访者这些天，把爸爸安顿好那天我睡得最好。
The Vivian Family Chatting Page Source Interviewees these days, Dad settled down the day I slept best.
那天，我把医保卡、身份证还有各种做检查要用的东西交给姑姑，告诉她，哪些东西在她那里，哪些东西在医生那里。
That day, I gave my aunt my health care card, my ID card and all the things I needed for the examination, telling her what was with her and what was with the doctor.
我跟她说得很清楚，但她也挺累的，总是忘记。
I made it clear to her, but she was also tired and always forgot.
我有点崩溃，在病房里哭，哭得很大声，把心里积压的东西全发泄出来了。
I broke down a bit, cried in the ward, cried loudly, let out the backlog of things out of the heart.
那天晚上，从医院回来的路上，我在车上睡着了，睡得很沉。
That night, on my way back from the hospital, I fell asleep in the car and slept soundly.
剩下这些天，每天睡一下，醒一下，隔一两小时醒一次。
For the rest of the day, get some sleep, wake up, wake up every other hour or two.
我不能睡着，也不敢静音，怕妈妈需要什么东西，半夜发来消息。
I couldn't sleep, I didn't dare to keep quiet, for I was afraid my mother needed something. Late at night.
中间收到很多朋友的关心，老板给发了大红包，朋友也发红包，还有寄口罩的。
In the middle of a lot of friends care, the boss gave a big red envelope, friends also issued red envelopes, and send masks.
这些我都收下了，疫情结束了，看用什么方式回报一下吧。
I'll take it all. The epidemic is over. Let's see what we can do in return.
前几天，武汉天气特别不好，天气预报说，从昨天开始，后面几天天气都特别好，天气好，心情稍微就好一点，天气不好，就跟电视剧里演的一样，人已经很惨了，这边还要下大雨。
The other day, the weather in Wuhan is particularly bad, the weather forecast said yesterday, the next few days are very good, the weather is good, slightly better mood, bad weather, like the TV show, people are already miserable, this side of the heavy rain.
我终于能理解为什么电视剧电影里面都爱那么演，因为我最伤心的时候，武汉也在下雨。
I can finally understand why the TV drama love to do so, because when I was most sad, Wuhan is also raining.
我昨天发朋友圈，终于出太阳了，但爸爸不在了。
I sent friends yesterday, finally out of the sun, but Dad is not in.
弟弟说，前天晚上他去医院跟姑父换班照顾爸爸，半夜，爸爸是清醒的，一直在跟他说话，说，不想拖累家里人。
Brother said that the night before yesterday he went to the hospital with his uncle to take care of his father, in the middle of the night, his father is awake, has been talking to him, said that do not want to drag his family down.
以后，我只希望平平安安、健健康康的。
In the future, I only hope to be safe, healthy and healthy.
去年生日，好朋友说我，鼠年属鸡的人会犯太岁，她帮我求了一条手链，问我希望得到什么东西，我说求健康。
Last year on my birthday, my best friend said that the Year of the Rat chicken would be too old. She helped me find a bracelet and asked me what I wanted.
当时我的工作强度特别大，导致我生病了，觉得赚多赚少没那么重要，健康最重要。
At that time, my work intensity was so intense that I became ill. I felt that earning more and earning less was less important and my health was more important.
戴上那条手链后，我又找了一份工作，特别满意，状态也好，工作也开心，就跟朋友说，她给我求的手链很灵。
After wearing that bracelet, I found another job, especially satisfied, in good condition, happy work, and told my friends that she gave me a very good bracelet.
朋友开玩笑，早知道这么灵，应该求财。
Friend joking, already knew this spirit, should ask for money.
我说我不要求财，我只要健康。
I said I don't want money, I just want health.
现在每天出门，我都戴着这条手链，我把它当成吉祥物、护身符。
Now I wear this bracelet when I go out every day. I use it as a mascot and amulet.
现在家里这个情况，不允许我有太多情绪，就算有情绪，也得把当下该做的先做了。
This situation at home, do not allow me to have too much emotion, even if there are emotions, also have to do the right thing to do now.
有个心理疾病，叫创伤后应激障碍，我不知道我是不是这样，可能这个事情过了，我想起来还是会流眼泪。
There is a mental illness, called post-traumatic stress disorder, I do not know if I am not so, perhaps this matter is over, I still think of tears.
我是个特别容易流眼泪的人，但是最近反而没有那么爱哭。
I am a person who can shed tears easily, but recently I am not so fond of crying.
现在还好，这个事情可以直接拿出来说，我也没有很激动、很怨恨，好像也没有什么力气去那个。
Fortunately, this matter can be taken out directly to say, I am not very excited, very resentful, as if there is no strength to go there.
我希望后面好消息越来越多，不再有坏消息，现在家里面也没有办法有更坏的消息。
I hope there will be more good news, no more bad news, and now there is no way to have any worse news in the house.
今天就说到这里吧，我得吃药了，吃一些预防的药，然后下午去看妈妈。
Let's call it a day. I have to take some medicine, take some preventive medicine, and then go to see my mother in the afternoon.
。
.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
送走奶奶和爸爸，武汉女孩的漫长一月。
Take away Grandma and Dad, the long month of Wuhan girl.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "送走奶奶和爸爸，武汉女孩的漫长一月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; saw Grandma and Dad, Wuhan Girl's long January & quot;;
var msg_desc = "这段时间，我觉得自己才算真的长大，虽然我不想以这种方式长大。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; At the time, I felt like I had grown up, though I didn't want to grow up that way.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
