前所未有，香港海港城为商户减免一半租金。
Hong Kong Harbour City offers half the rent relief to merchants.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
来源：图虫记者：卢奕贝 编辑：牙韩翔“ 但对经历了去年大半年的社会局势动荡，又遭遇肺炎疫情雪上加霜的香港零售行业来说，减免租金只是杯水车薪。
Source: Toothbug Editor: Tony Lew, "But for Hong Kong's retail industry, which has been through a tumultuous social situation for much of the past year and has been hit by a pneumonia epidemic, rent relief is only a drop in the ocean.
”疫情之下，香港最大的高端购物中心、亚洲最赚钱的商城海港城，也开始减租了。
In the wake of the outbreak, Hong Kong's biggest high-end shopping centre, the most profitable seaport in Asia, has also started cutting rents.
2月12日，多家香港媒体报道称，海港城给租户的一封内部邮件显示，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，商场客流量骤减，多个品牌商家业绩受到严重影响。
On February 12, Hong Kong media reported that an internal e-mail from the port city to tenants showed a sharp drop in traffic to the mall as a result of the new Crown Pneumonia epidemic, severely affecting the performance of a number of brands.
为减缓商户压力，海港城决定将2月租金减半。
To ease the pressure on merchants, Harbour City decided to halve the rent in February.
由于涉及与租户间的保密条款，海港城未透露更加具体的洽谈内容和合约安排。
The city did not disclose more specific details of the negotiations and contractual arrangements because of confidentiality clauses with tenants.
根据国家卫健委数据，截至2月13日19:55时，香港地区累计确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎51例。
As of 19: 55 on February 13, 51 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia had been confirmed in Hong Kong, according to the National Health Commission.
海港城是香港零售业的标志之一。
Harbour City is one of the hallmarks of retail trade in Hong Kong.
自2007年起的10年间，受益内地游客的访港购物热潮，海港城销售额年均复合增长率超过10%，2018年更是达到24%。
In the 10 years since 2007, port city sales have grown at an average annual compounded rate of over 10%, reaching 24% in 2018, following a boom in visitor arrivals from the Mainland.
2018年海港城销售额超过370亿元港元，平均每天超过一亿元港元。
In 2018, HEC sales exceeded HK $37 billion, averaging over HK $100 million per day.
到2019年，海港城去年上半年总收入依然增长5%至61.56亿港元，商场的出租率维持在96%。
By 2019, the city's total revenue rose by 5 per cent to HK $6,156 million in the first half of last year, and the occupancy rate of shopping malls remained at 96 per cent.
目前，海港城内有许多商铺闭店暂停营业，其中围上了装修板的门面更多达24个。
At present, many shops in the harbour city are closed, among which the fitment panels are surrounded by up to 24 facades.
一位名叫“Patrick the Reporter”的香港用户，在社交网络Twitter上发布了一张海港城的照片，并且配文“2020.02.06 平日下午的海港城。
Patrick the Reporter, a Hong Kong user, posted a picture of Seaport City on social networking Twitter with the text "2020.02.06 weekday afternoon seaport town."
”曾经人流涌动的海港城入口，如今格外空旷。
The entrance to the harbour city, once flooded, is now particularly empty.
网友拍摄的海港城。
Seaport city filmed by netizens.
“受疫情影响，大家都有意减少了出门聚会，但上班族仍然需要搭乘公共交通出行，许多必经站点会设在商场楼下，经过是不可避免的，其实，逛街还是可以的。
"There has been a deliberate reduction in out-of-town parties because of the epidemic, but commuters still have to travel on public transportation and many of the necessary stops will be downstairs.
”在香港尖沙咀附近工作的Hugo Wong对界面新闻说。
"Hugo Wong, who works near Tsim Sha Tsui, Hong Kong, told Interface News.
虽然所有香港市民都戴上了口罩，但是街道上的人流并没有明显减少。
Although all Hong Kong residents wear masks, there has been no significant reduction in the flow of people on the streets.
但香港奢侈品零售业的最大消费客群来自内地，为应对疫情，香港政府自2020年2月4日起加强了对出入境的管控，访港旅客人次跌至谷底。
However, Hong Kong's largest consumer base in luxury retail comes from the Mainland. In response to the outbreak, the Hong Kong Government has tightened immigration controls since 4 February 2020, with visitor arrivals falling to the bottom.
2019年香港局势影响的冲击尚未消化，新冠肺炎又来临，如今的购买力可能并不足以支撑它们过往的辉煌。
With the impact of the 2019 situation yet to be absorbed, and the arrival of new crown pneumonia, purchasing power may not be enough to sustain their past glory.
海港城的母公司是九龙仓置业，旗下还拥有时代广场、荷里活广场以及中环组合等5项物业，目前并没有其他减租信息。
The parent company is Kowloon Warehouse, which owns five properties, including Times Square, Hollywood Plaza and Central. There is no other information on rent reduction.
但在新冠肺炎尚未爆发以前，全球最大奢侈品牌之一的Louis Vuitton，由于业主九龙仓置业拒绝为品牌位于香港铜锣湾时代广场2楼的分店减租，正计划关闭该分店。
But before the outbreak of pneumonia, Louis Vuitton, one of the world's biggest luxury brands, was planning to close as its owner, Kowloon Warehouse, refused to reduce its rent for its 2 / F Times Square branch in Causeway Bay, Hong Kong.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，不只奢侈品，香港的化妆品与珠宝行业也变得黯淡。
After the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, Hong Kong's cosmetics and jewellery industries have also darkened, not just luxury goods.
莎莎已经宣布旗下香港及澳门21间分店已暂时停止营业；周大福表示港澳有40多间分店暂停营业，其余分店也已经缩短营业时间；谢瑞麟则在社交平台公布，已停止超一半的香港门店营业。
Sasha has announced that 21 of her Hong Kong and Macao branches have been temporarily closed, Zhou said more than 40 branches in Hong Kong and Macao are closed and the rest have been cut short.
目前暂停营业的零售门店在香港仍是少数，但香港零售行业人士不再报以乐观。
Retail stores, which are currently closed, are still a minority in Hong Kong, but the retail sector is no longer optimistic.
据香港零售管理协会上周四公布的调查显示，自1月24日起共10天的春节期间，大部分香港零售商的平均生意额下跌高至50%，零售业正步入“超级寒冬”。
According to a survey released on Thursday by the Hong Kong Retail Management Association (HKRMA), the average Hong Kong retailer's business has fallen as much as 50 percent during the 10-day Spring Festival period starting January 24.
而在新冠病毒疫情肆虐下，协会会员预计2至3月的生意额仍会下跌40%至60%。
Its members expect business to fall by 40% to 60% from February to March amid a new crown-virus epidemic.
零售寒冬让香港各界决定守望相助。
Retail winters have made Hong Kong people decide to help.
2月11日，香港地产建设商会发布了一份声明，指出鉴于零售餐饮业当前的困难境况，旗下会员将继续与有需要租户按个别情况探讨各种可行办法，包括提供宽减租金等措施，以纾缓他们的经营压力。
On February 11, the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong issued a statement stating that in view of the difficult circumstances prevailing in the retail catering industry, its members would continue to explore with tenants in need, on a case-by-case basis, various options, including rent relief measures, to alleviate their business pressure.
新鸿基地产、新世界集团、恒隆地产和太古地产纷纷响应，或减免租金，或承诺加强推广，以携手共度时艰。
Sun Hung Kai Properties, New World Group, Hang Lung Estate and Swire Properties have responded by offering rent relief or promising to step up promotion to meet the tough times together.
而这些地产公司的减免措施，将覆盖国际金融中心商场、apm、K11、太古广场购物商场等香港核心商场。
The relief measures for these property companies will cover Hong Kong's core shopping centres such as the International Financial Centre, Apm, K11 and Shopping Mall in Swire Square.
但对经历了去年大半年的社会局势动荡，又遭遇肺炎疫情雪上加霜的香港零售行业来说，减免租金或许杯水车薪。
But for Hong Kong's retailing industry, which suffered social unrest for much of last year and a severe case of pneumonia, the rent cuts may be paltry.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
前所未有，香港海港城为商户减免一半租金。
Hong Kong Harbour City offers half the rent relief to merchants.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "前所未有，香港海港城为商户减免一半租金";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "但对经历了去年大半年的社会局势动荡，又遭遇肺炎疫情雪上加霜的香港零售行业来说，减免租金只是杯水车薪。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; but the rent cut was a drop in the bucket for Hong Kong's retail sector, which has experienced social unrest for much of the past year and has been hit by pneumonia.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
