乐华娱乐旗下艺人涉嫌口罩诈骗案被捕。
Lok Wah Entertainment's artist arrested in connection with mask fraud.
刘睿欣。
Liu Weishin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：刘睿欣“ 颇为讽刺的是，一周前（2月4号），也就是被捕的前一天，黄智博还在微博发布手写信，支援奋战在抗疫一线的工作者，表示“我们同心协力打赢这场战疫，武汉加油！中国加油！”这也是黄智博迄今为止发布的最后一条微博。
Journalist: "Ironically, a week ago (February 4), the day before his arrest, Huang wrote a letter to support the frontline workers in the fight against the epidemic, saying," Together we won the battle, Wuhan Come on! China Come on! "This is Huang's last microblog to date.
”2月13日晚间，有网友爆料称，乐华娱乐旗下艺人黄智博因涉嫌口罩诈骗案在家被捕。
On the night of Feb. 13, netizens reported that entertainment artist Huang Zhibo was arrested at home on suspicion of mask fraud.
根据身份证号、生日以及随后曝光的审讯视频，确认为黄智博本人。
According to the identity card number, birthday and subsequent exposure of the interrogation video, confirmed as Huang Zhibo himself.
在视频中，黄智博被问及卖口罩骗人的原因时，回答道：“脑子一乱，然后就……”由时间及事件过程倒推来看，黄智博诈骗案指向上海市公安2月6日发布的一则消息：2020年2月1日上午，家住浦东的陆女士通过贴吧寻找到一位卖口罩的商家，双方通过微信商定以单价0.9元购买40万个口罩，并预付50%的定金10.7万元。
Asked in the video why he was selling masks, Huang replied: "The brain is in a muddle, and then..." In the morning of February 1, 2020, Lu Zhibao, a resident of Pudong, found a dealer selling masks by putting up a sticker.
但商家收到预付款后，却要求陆女士自己去扬州取货。
But after receiving the advance payment, but asked Ms. Lu to go to Yangzhou to pick up the goods.
陆女士到达扬州无法找到提货地点，遂报警。
Ms. Lu arrived in Yangzhou unable to find the pick-up point, so called the police.
警方经缜密侦查后，于2月5日上午在广东省陆丰市抓获了犯罪嫌疑人，并确认这是一起系列网络诈骗案，总案值人民币28万余元。
After careful investigation, the police arrested the suspects on the morning of February 5 in Lufeng City, Guangdong Province, and confirmed that it was a series of Internet fraud cases with a total value of more than 280,000 yuan.
上海市警民直通车通过微博发布了当时的现场照片，在被缴获的众多物品中，除黄智博的个人证件、少量现金外，还包括一张由粉丝拍摄的个人照片。
Among the many items seized was a personal photograph taken by a fan, in addition to Huang's personal documents and a small amount of cash.
图源：警民直通车-上海微博截图而根据2020年最新诈骗罪量刑标准，诈骗公私财物价值达到三万元至十万元以上的，应当被认定为刑法第266条规定的“数额巨大”，处三年以上十年以下有期徒刑，并处罚金。
Source: Police-Community Through Train-Shanghai Weibo screenshot. Anyone who defrauds public or private property worth between 30,000 yuan and 100,000 yuan according to the 2020 latest sentencing standard for fraud shall be deemed to be "substantial" under section 266 of the Criminal Law and sentenced to three to ten years' imprisonment and a fine.
再加上黄智博在诈骗过程中涉嫌发布虚假信息、诈骗救灾医疗款物，在量刑时还会酌情从严惩处。
In addition, Huang Zhibao in the process of fraud suspected of publishing false information, fraud disaster relief medical supplies, will also be appropriate when sentencing severe penalties.
有网友甚至仿照平日里追星的口气调侃道：“出黄智博探监名额，名额1个，不贵，速来。
Some netizens even mimic the tone of the usual star fun: "Huang Zhibo out of prison, a place, not expensive, come soon.
”黄智博出生于1999年11月18日，今年刚满20岁。
Huang, who was born on November 18, 1999, is just turning 20.
据公开资料显示，他曾是韩国Big Hit娱乐公司的练习生，并通过了CUBE娱乐公司的面试。
According to public sources, he was a student at Big Hit Entertainment in South Korea and passed an interview with CUBE Entertainment.
2019年，黄智博以乐华娱乐公司练习生的身份参加优酷的选秀节目《以团之名》，并成为星耀班的一员。
In 2019, Huang took part in the cool draft show "In the Name of the Troupe" as a Lehua Entertainment student and became a member of Star Wars.
在节目中，黄智博一直给人寡言少语的印象。
In the program, Huang Zhibo has always given the impression of silence.
因为第二期同公司队友周艺轩未能选择他加入队伍，黄智博最后只能进入赵品霖的团队，这一消息还在网络上激起了小小的水花。
Because the second phase of his teammate Zhou Yexuan failed to select him to join the team, Huang could only enter Zhao Pinglin's team, the news also sparked a small splash on the network.
最终，黄智博因一名之差未能出道，有消息称他又重新前往韩国练习，为将来出道做准备。
In the end, Huang failed to make the trip because of a gap, news that he went back to South Korea to practice, to prepare for the future.
黄智博在乐华娱乐练习室，图源：黄智博个人微博2020年1月，有粉丝拍到了黄智博前往《少年之名》（《以团之名》第二季）录制的照片。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Huang Zhibo's Personal Weibo In January 2020, fans took a photo of Huang Zhibo going to "The Name of the Teenagers" (Second Season of The Name of the Group).
同时期被曝光的其他参赛选手还有李希侃、胡文煊、林陌等人。
Other contestants who were exposed at the same time included Lixian, Hu Wenxuan and Lin Mo.
后因疫情影响，《以团之名2》延期录制，黄智博也回到了广东老家。
Later due to the epidemic, "the name of the Mission 2" delayed recording, Huang Zhibo also returned to Guangdong home.
13日晚，针对练习生黄智博“借卖口罩实施诈骗被抓”一事，乐华娱乐在新浪微博发表声明，表示黄智博此举严重违反了公司训练生合同及管理制度规范，公司已与黄智博解除《训练生合同》。
In a statement released on Sina Weibo Thursday night, Le Hua Entertainment said the move was a serious breach of the company's rules and regulations on trainee contracts and management.
乐华娱乐强烈谴责利用疫情扰乱社会秩序的违法犯罪行为，并针对此事件对社会造成的恶劣影响深表歉意。
Lok Hua Entertainment strongly condemns the criminal act of using epidemic situation to disrupt social order and apologizes for the evil effects of this event on society.
但颇为讽刺的是，一周前（2月4号），也就是被捕的前一天，黄智博还在微博发布手写信，支援奋战在抗疫一线的工作者，表示“我们同心协力打赢这场战疫，武汉加油！中国加油！”这也是黄智博迄今为止发布的最后一条微博。
But ironically, a week ago (Feb. 4), the day before his arrest, Huang posted a letter of support for those on the front line of the epidemic, saying, "Together we won the battle, Wuhan Come on! China Come on!" This is Huang's last microblog to date.
图源：黄智博个人微博未经授权 禁止转载。
Source: Huang Zhibo personal microblogging unauthorized reprint.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
乐华娱乐旗下艺人涉嫌口罩诈骗案被捕。
Lok Wah Entertainment's artist arrested in connection with mask fraud.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "乐华娱乐旗下艺人涉嫌口罩诈骗案被捕";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "颇为讽刺的是，一周前（2月4号），也就是被捕的前一天，黄智博还在微博发布手写信，支援奋战在抗疫一线的工作者，表示“我们同心协力打赢这场战疫，武汉加油！中国加油！”这也是黄智博迄今为止发布的最后一条微博。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Ironically, a week ago (February 4), the day before his arrest, Mr. Huang posted a letter of support for those on the front line of the epidemic, saying, "Together we won the battle, Wuhan Come on! China Come on!"
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
