两个贫困县的艰难战“疫”。
Two poor counties of the difficult battle "epidemic."
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 何利权 实习生 粟满莺 李佳悦因缺乏物资，都安县医护人员自制防护用品。
Peng Pai journalist He Liquan intern Sui Man Ying Li Jiayue due to lack of supplies, Duan County medical staff self-made protective supplies.
因新冠肺炎确诊患者在短期内陡增，且感染人数占到所在市（州）的绝大部分，个别位置偏僻的贫困县正面临着一场艰难的“战疫”。
Due to the sudden increase in the number of patients diagnosed with Newcastle pneumonia in the short term and the large majority of those infected in their city (state), isolated poor counties are facing a difficult "epidemic."
截至2月11日，广西壮族自治区河池市都安瑶族自治县确诊新冠肺炎14例，而河池全市确诊病例不过21例。
As of February 11, 14 cases of new crown pneumonia were diagnosed in Du'an Yao Autonomous Prefecture in Hechi, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, and only 21 cases were confirmed in Hechi city.
仅有5万人口的四川省甘孜藏族自治州道孚县目前确诊31例，这个数据超过了四川大多数地市，也让甘孜州的感染人数在四川地市（州）中排到第二，仅次于成都。
Thirty-one cases have been confirmed in Dawu, a southwestern Sichuan province with a population of only 50,000, more than most other cities in Sichuan.
都安县新冠肺炎防控指挥部一名工作人员告诉澎湃新闻，“疫情爆发太过突然”，每个人都“绷紧了神经”。
"The outbreak was too sudden," a staff member of the Du'an Prefecture's New Crown Pneumonia Control Command told the roar news.
而在新冠肺炎袭扰之下，因医疗基础薄弱、物资储备不足，当地医护人员有些“疲于应对”。
But under the new crown pneumonia, because of the weak medical base, insufficient material reserves, some local medical personnel "overworked."
因缺乏物资，都安县医护人员自制防护用品。
Due to lack of supplies, medical staff in Du'an self-made protective supplies.
此前，部分都安医生发布的求助信息显示，因防护医疗用品紧缺，有医护人员只能临时用文件夹、一次性治疗巾、塑料袋等物品替代。
Earlier, some doctors issued help information, because of shortages of protective medical supplies, medical staff can only use temporary folder, disposable towels, plastic bags and other items.
2月9日，都安因此上了热搜，“成为广西抗击疫情最严峻的战场之一”。
Feb. 9, Duan on the hot search, "to become one of the most serious fighting epidemic in Guangxi."
不过，情况正在得到改善。
However, the situation is improving.
随着都安、道孚向外求助，引起上级政府及社会关注，医护力量、防护物资等资源正在通过各种渠道向当地汇集。
With Duan and Dover turning to the outside world for help, the government and the community at large are paying close attention to them.
道孚县人民医院工作人员称，目前已经接收了政府以及爱心人士的帮助，医疗资源紧张的状况得到一定缓解。
Staff at the People's Hospital in Tawu County said they had received help from the government and caring people and that the strain on medical resources had been alleviated.
医护人员向外求助后，得到各方支援，物资短缺问题得到缓解。
The shortage of medical staff was alleviated by the support of all concerned after they turned to the outside world.
疫情来袭，政府部门“绷紧了神经”1月29日，都安县出现首例新冠肺炎确诊患者，此后该县确诊病例一路攀升，至2月11日已有14例，其中6例为家庭聚集性感染。
Confirmed cases of pneumonia rose in Duan county on January 29 after the outbreak of the first confirmed case of the disease, with 14 cases reported as of February 11, including six cases of familial infection.
而河池全市确诊病例21例，都安就要占到三分之二。
And the city of Hechi confirmed 21 cases, will account for two-thirds of the total.
2月8日，都安确诊患者中有1人死亡，这也是广西出现的首例死亡比例。
On February 8, one of the patients diagnosed in Duan died, the first death rate in Guangxi.
河池市第一人民医院医护人员前往都安支援。
Medical staff from First People's Hospital of Hechi City went to Du'an Support.
河池日报 图都安是广西四个极度贫困县之一，有70多万人口，因此处石山遍布，被外界称为“九分石头一分土”。
He Chi daily Tudu'an is one of the four poorest counties in Guangxi, with a population of more than 700,000.
确诊患者陡增，令这里的抗“疫”形势颇为紧张。
Diagnosis of the sudden increase in patients, so that the anti-" epidemic "situation is quite tense.
中国新闻网报道称，都安确诊病例涉及多个小区、村庄，“人员分散、行踪难以确定”，给疫情防控带来很大难度。
China News Network reported that Du An confirmed cases involving a number of small areas, villages, "scattered personnel, the whereabouts of difficult to determine", the disease prevention and control brought great difficulties.
而通报显示，多名病例至今未能查明感染路径。
According to the circular, several cases have so far failed to identify the route of infection.
都安俨然成为“广西抗击疫情最严峻的战场之一”。
Du An has become "one of the most serious battleground of fighting epidemic situation in Guangxi".
2月11日，该县新冠肺炎防控指挥部一名工作人员告诉澎湃新闻，“都安疫情爆发太过突然”，也是广西首次出现死亡病例的县市，政府部门的每个人都“绷紧了神经”。
On February 11, a staff member of the county's New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command told roar news that the "Du'an outbreak was too sudden" and was the first case of death in Guangxi. Everyone in the government department was "tense."
对于都安的复杂情况，河池市采取了严格排查管控、严格实行封闭式管理、严格控制人员外出、严禁一切聚集性活动、严格对重点人员的管理、严格公共场所管理、严格垃圾收运处置工作和严格酒店和房屋出租管理等八项措施。
In response to the complex situation in Du'an, the city has adopted eight measures, including strict control of refuse collection, strict enforcement of closed management, strict control of people going out, strict prohibition of all gathering activities, strict management of key personnel, strict management of public places, strict collection and disposal of refuse and strict management of hotel and house leases.
相比于都安，仅有5万人口的四川省甘孜藏族自治州道孚县的“抗疫”形势或更为严峻。
Compared with Duan, the situation in Dawu, the autonomous prefecture of Ganzi-Tibet Autonomous Prefecture in Sichuan Province, with a population of only 50,000, may be more severe.
据甘孜州政府新闻办消息，2月11日新增的9例新冠肺炎确诊病患，全部来自道孚县。
According to the news office of the Kardze state government, 9 new cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia were reported on February 11, all from Dawu county.
至此，甘孜累计确诊新冠肺炎36例，其中31例发生在道孚。
So far, Ganzi cumulative diagnosis of new crown pneumonia 36 cases, of which 31 cases occurred in Dover.
这个川西小县的确诊病例甚至超过四川大多数地市，也让甘孜州的感染人数在全省排到第二，仅次于成都。
The confirmed cases in this small county in western Sichuan exceed those in most cities in Sichuan and place the number of people infected in Kanzi province second only to Chengdu.
1月24日，大年三十，道孚县收治了首名新冠肺炎疑似患者。
January 24, about 30, the county admitted the first suspected new crown pneumonia patients.
该患者最终化验结果为“阳性”，确诊新冠肺炎。
The patient was found to be "positive" in the final test and was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
彼时，当地还很少有人能够想到，远在湖北肆虐的新冠肺炎会在这里掀起巨大风波。
At that time, few people in the area could have imagined that the New Crown Pneumonia, which was raging in Hubei province, would set off a great storm here.
特别是2月9日、10日、11日，甘孜州确诊病例三天增加19例，均发生在道孚。
In particular, on 9, 10 and 11 February, 19 more cases were diagnosed in Kardze County over a three-day period, all in Dover.
至此，道孚县累计31人被确诊，这些人中，常住人口居多，仅有个别病例有武汉旅居史。
So far, a total of 31 people have been diagnosed in Dawu County, of which the resident population is the majority, only a few cases have Wuhan sojourn history.
其中有18例来自三个家庭，均为家庭聚集导致感染。
Eighteen of the cases came from three families, all of which were family-based and resulted in infection.
疫情来袭，道孚县人民医院医护人员坚持工作。
The outbreak hit, the people's hospital workers in Tawu adhere to work.
道孚县人民 医院微信公众号 图道孚县地处川西高原，平均海拔3500米，位置偏远，仅有5万人口。
People's Hospital Weixin Public Hospital Tu Dawu County is located in the western Sichuan Plateau, an average elevation of 3,500 meters, remote location, only 50,000 people.
医护条件本就有限，突然袭来的疫情令当地“如临大敌”。
Medical conditions are already limited, the sudden outbreak of the disease so that the local "enemy."
2月7日，道孚县两名干部在疫情防控工作中没有落实工作，且擅离职守，被立案调查；8日，道孚对“五乡一镇” 实施封闭式管理，居民不得外出，生活必需品由政府分户配送；9日，道孚县建立新冠肺炎疫情联防联控举报和奖惩机制，最高奖励5万元。
On February 7, two cadres from Tawu county failed to implement the work of epidemic prevention and control, and were dismissed from their posts and investigated for desertion. On February 8, Dawu closed its doors to the residents of Wuxiang One Town.
2月11日，道孚县疫情防控举措再次“升级”。
Feb. 11, the Dover County epidemic prevention and control initiative again "upgrade."
据《川报观察》报道，道孚县进一步严格县、乡、村“三圈层”的通道管理，人车必查，严防疫情输入和输出。
According to Sichuan Post Watch, Tawu County further strict county, township, village "three circles" channel management, people and vehicles must check, strictly prevent the outbreak of input and output.
一名居民告诉澎湃新闻，当地市面上买不到口罩、酒精等物资，“街上几乎没人没车了，大家更多的是在家里不出门”。
One resident told the roar news that supplies such as masks and alcohol were not available in the local market. "There is almost no one on the street without a car.
物资告急，医护人员自制防护用品“数十人确诊，上百人被隔离，这对于一个小县来说，相当困难。
Supplies were in short supply and homemade protective gear "Dozens of people were diagnosed and hundreds were quarantined, which is quite difficult for a small county.
”一位甘孜州当地人士告诉澎湃新闻，道孚地广人少，隔离病人不难，但因此产生的防护物资、医护人员等需求，这样的挑战，道孚县的医疗水平很难“支撑”。
A local source in Kardze told the roar news that it was not difficult to isolate patients because of the small size of the country, but the resulting need for protective equipment and medical staff made it difficult to "sustain" the standard of care in Dawu prefecture.
首先感到压力的是极少面对这类疫情的本地医护人员。
The first is the pressure on local health-care workers, who rarely face such outbreaks.
道孚县人民医院官微载文透露，儿科护士长胡小燕大年三十（1月24日）晚上接到同事电话，“我们科好像收治了一位疑似患者，症状与新型冠状病毒导致的肺炎相似”。
"Our department seems to have admitted a suspected patient with symptoms similar to that of pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus," said Wei Yan, an official at the People's Hospital in Tawu County.
她赶回医院，进入隔离病区，消毒、采血、送样。
She rushed back to the hospital, into the quarantine area, disinfection, blood collection, sample delivery.
同事为她担心，但她自知“不能退缩”，“我不能让我的护士们去冒险。
Her co-workers worried about her, but she knew she couldn't back down. "I can't let my nurses take risks.
”这名患者确诊后，道孚县人民医院陆续收治多名病例。
After the patient was diagnosed, the People's Hospital in Tawu County received a number of cases.
为应对疫情，全院医护人员组建了四支梯队，每队由一名院领导和16名医护人员组成——在前一组人员疲惫后，其余梯队则依次替换、增援。
In response to the outbreak, the hospital's medical staff formed four echelons, each composed of a hospital director and 16 paramedics - the remaining echelons were replaced and reinforced as the first group was exhausted.
疫情来袭，道孚县人民医院医护人员坚持工作。
The outbreak hit, the people's hospital workers in Tawu adhere to work.
道孚县人民 医院微信公众号 图医院官微一篇文章提及，一次，从隔离区出来的手术麻醉科负责人杨灵莉见到同事，第一句话是，“我是换了衣服上来的，全身都换了，也做了正规的消毒”。
Yang Lingli, the head of the anaesthesiology department who came out of the quarantine area, met her colleagues and said, "I changed my clothes, changed my whole body and disinfected properly," an article said.
文章作者感慨，“听起来有些无奈，又有些心酸”，大家既是亲密战友，也是“最近的敌人”，但还是要保证在工作期间的安全。
The article author laments, "sounds a little helpless, also some sad", everybody is close comrade-in-arms, also is "the nearest enemy", still want to ensure the safety at work.
在医院工作群里，大家相互打气，“不是不怕，每个人都怕，但职责所在”。
In the hospital work group, everybody encouraged each other, "not afraid, everyone is afraid, but duty."
随着确诊病例增多，道孚县的医护力量很快开始“捉襟见肘”。
As the number of confirmed cases increased, care in Dawu County quickly began to "stretch."
2月2日，道孚县向成都郫都区“求援”，称当地“专业医卫人手不足，疫情防控物资紧缺”；4日，道孚县发布接收社会捐赠的公告，筹集防护服、一次性隔离衣、N95口罩等医用防护用品。
Feb. 2, Tawu Prefecture to Chengdu Pixu, said the local "lack of professional health personnel, epidemic prevention and control supplies"; 4, the county issued a public donation announcement, collection of protective clothing, disposable protective clothing, N95 masks and other medical supplies.
都安瑶族自治县医护人员面临的困境或更为艰难。
The plight of medical staff in Duan Yao Autonomous County is even more difficult.
该县定点收治医院都安瑶族自治县人民医院，因防疫物资紧缺，医务人员只能在简陋的条件下工作，甚至“自制防护用品”。
Because of the shortage of epidemic prevention materials, medical staff can only work in poor conditions, even "self-made protective equipment."
2月9日，网上流传的消息和照片显示，当地一线医护人员的口罩要用2到3天，有的防护服是用一次性治疗巾、雨衣或床单制成，文件袋拿来充当防护面罩，放射科的资料袋、塑料袋则成为防护鞋套。
On February 9, news and photos circulated on the Internet showed that local front-line medical staff spent two to three days wearing masks, some of them made of disposable towels, raincoats or sheets, some used as protective masks, and radiology kits and plastic bags as protective shoes.
此事经广西当地媒体报道后，登上微博热搜。
After Guangxi local media coverage of the matter, boarded Weibo hot search.
2月11日，该县疫情防控指挥部一名工作人员向澎湃新闻证实，上述情况属实。
This was confirmed to the media on 11 February by a staff member of the Prefectural Command for Disease Control and Prevention.
一线医护人员面临着暴露在新冠肺炎病毒下的风险。
Front-line health care workers are at risk of exposure to the new crown pneumonia virus.
中国新闻网报道称，都安14例新冠肺炎确诊患者中，即包括县人民医院麻醉科36岁女医师韦某，她曾为确诊病例莫某进行气管插管术，后在2月7日被确诊。
A 36-year-old woman, including Wei Mou, a 36-year-old anesthesiologist at the county People's Hospital, was diagnosed on February 7 after performing tracheostomy on Momoy, a confirmed case, China News reported.
各方驰援抗疫“主战场”因疫情严重，都安和道孚两县，成了所在市州甚至省份的抗疫“主战场”，得到各方支援。
Due to the serious outbreak of the epidemic, Du An and Dao fu counties have become the main battleground of the epidemic in their cities, counties and even provinces.
甘孜州道孚县向成都市郫都区求援后，后者即刻予以回应。
Pi Du District, Chengdu City, requested help from Tawu County, Ganzi Province, which responded immediately.
《天府早报》报道称，郫都区派了17名医护人员前往道孚，并带了300套防护服，5000个一次性口罩，5000个医用口罩以及数十桶医用酒精、消毒液等物资。
The Tian Fu Morning Post reported that Pixu District sent 17 medical personnel to Dover with 300 suits of protective clothing, 5,000 disposable masks, 5,000 medical masks, and dozens of buckets of medical alcohol and disinfectant.
2月10日，同属甘孜州的联社县也向道孚县捐赠现金20万元、医用口罩2000个。
On 10 February, Union County, also in Kanzi, also donated 200,000 yuan in cash and 2,000 medical masks to Tawu County.
道孚县人民医院一位工作人员2月12日告诉澎湃新闻，目前道孚县已经接收了来自四面八方爱心人士以及政府的帮助，医疗资源紧张的状况得到缓解。
A staff member of the People's Hospital of Tawu told the news on Feb. 12 that Tawu County had received help from loving people from all sides and the government.
据澎湃新闻了解，道孚县部分确诊患者和危重患者都会转入甘孜州人民医院，这是康定市唯一定点接收确诊肺炎患者的医院。
According to the surging news, some confirmed patients and critically ill patients in Dawu County will be transferred to Kanzi People's Hospital, the only designated hospital in Kangding to receive patients with confirmed pneumonia.
该院的物资情况也比较紧张，曾经于1月29日发布捐赠公告。
The hospital's material situation is also tense, and a donation announcement was made on 29 January.
十多天过去了，甘孜州的物资匮乏问题已经得到缓解。
More than a decade later, the shortage of goods in Kardze has been alleviated.
2月12日，甘孜州人民医院一位工作人员称，在政府和社会各界的帮助下，医院收到很多医用物资，但是一线医护人员所需的N95口罩和防护服依旧缺乏。
On 12 February, a staff member of the Kardze People's Hospital stated that the hospital had received many medical supplies with the help of the Government and various sectors of society, but that the N95 masks and protective clothing needed by front-line medical personnel were still lacking.
“现在全国物资都很紧缺，甘孜也不例外。
"Things are in short supply across the country now, and Ganzi is no exception.
但是政府已经通过其他渠道调运物资，首先保障临床一线医护人员的需要。
But the government has moved supplies through other channels, first to ensure the needs of clinical front-line health care workers.
” 医院院长吴丹告诉澎湃新闻。
Hospital director U Thant told Peng Pai News.
医护力量也得以增补。
Healthcare capacity has also been supplemented.
2月8日，四川省、甘孜州两级医疗专家组赴道孚县，协力当地医院抗击新冠肺炎。
February 8, Sichuan, Ganzi state two-level medical experts to Tawu County, the local hospital to fight New Crown Pneumonia.
2月6日下午，州卫健委通知下属各地组派医生驰援道孚，此后至12日，包括丹巴、泸定等在内的县均有调派人员前往支援。
On the afternoon of February 6, the State Fitness Commission informed the sub-groups to send doctors to rescue Dao fu, and from then until 12 February, including Tamba, Luding and other counties have seconded personnel to support.
“疫情紧张，作为一名医务人员，应该冲在前面，责无旁贷。
"The epidemic is intense, and as a medical worker, it's up to you to get ahead.
”丹巴县疾控中心检验科强巴泽仁接受媒体采访时表示，“道孚的环境我熟悉，会藏语，是男同志，去最适合。
"I am familiar with the environment, I know Tibetan and I am a gay man," said Zambazren, an inspector at the CDC in Tamba County.
”因防疫物资紧缺，2月6日，广西壮族自治区河池市都安瑶族自治县人民医院也曾发布捐赠公告，请求各界紧急援助N95口罩、医用外科口罩、防护服、防护面罩等物资。
Due to the shortage of epidemic prevention materials, on February 6, the People's Hospital of Duan Yao Autonomous Prefecture in Hechi City, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, issued a donation notice requesting emergency assistance for N95 masks, medical surgical masks, protective clothing and face masks.
9日下午，广西壮族自治区疫情防控指挥部立即紧急调配物资，次日凌晨发往都安。
9 afternoon, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, immediately emergency deployment of supplies, the next morning sent to Duan.
据南方plus报道，肩负着扶贫协作都安县任务的深圳市宝安区，也于9日特别调拔400个PPF2口罩，100件防护服送往都安。
According to Southern Plus, Baoan District of Shenzhen, which has undertaken the task of helping the poor, also allocated 400 PPF2 masks and 100 pieces of protective clothing to Du'an on September 9.
民间自发组织的捐献也络绎不绝。
There is also a steady stream of donations from spontaneous civil society organizations.
广西大学EMBA同学于2月10日向都安送去10000双医用乳胶检查手套和100套杜邦医用防护衣。
EMBA students from Guangxi University sent 10,000 pairs of medical latex gloves and 100 sets of DuPont medical protective clothing to DuPont on February 10.
远在杭州的广西人梁嘉宁，一看到都安告急的消息，立即动员“南宁辣妈群”筹集物资，送去60副护目镜和200套一次性隔离衣。
As soon as he saw the urgent news, Liang Jiangning, a Guangxi resident from Hangzhou, immediately mobilized the "Nanning Spice Mauna" to collect supplies and send 60 sets of goggles and 200 disposable protective clothing.
“不管民间还是政府，我觉得广西人的自救反应特别快，不少人都在筹集物资。
"Whether the government or the people, I think Guangxi people's self-help response is particularly fast, many people are raising materials.
”梁嘉宁告诉澎湃新闻，“希望都安能好好的”。
"I hope all well," Liang told Pong Pai News.
2月8日，河池市第一人民医院向都安派遣10名医护人员。
On 8 February, the First People's Hospital in Ho Chi City dispatched 10 medical personnel to Du'an.
据《河池日报》报道，2月9日，因都安“疫情防控形势严峻”，且医护人员工作强度高、工作时间长，需要大量的专业医护人员支援，河池市委、市政府向市第一人民医院发出“增援”信号，当天，医院又派出20人。
On Feb. 9, Indoğan sent 20 more people to the city's First People's Hospital on February 9, the newspaper said, citing a "serious situation of disease prevention and control" and the intensive work and long working hours of medical staff, requiring a large number of medical professionals.
2月11日，该院相关工作人员告诉澎湃新闻，这批前往支援的医护人员正和都安县人民医院进行交接。
On February 11, the hospital staff told the roar news that the medical staff who had come to support the hospital were handing over to the People's Hospital in Duan County.
次日，都安新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部透露，河池市第一人民医院支援队已经全面接管都安县人民医院传染病科。
The next day, Du'an Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command revealed that the Hebei First People's Hospital Support Team had taken full control of the Du'an People's Hospital Infectious Disease Unit.
目前，河池市派往都安县援助的医疗队已有6批次，共99人。
At present, Hechi City sent to Duan County to assist six batches of medical teams, a total of 99 people.
据中国新闻网报道，河池市工业和信息化局局长韦安宁表示，在防疫物资调配方面将向重点疫区都安县倾斜。
Wei Ning, director of Hechi City's Bureau of Industry and Information Technology, said the epidemic prevention materials will be deployed to the main epidemic area of Du'an County tilted.
本期编辑邢潭推荐阅读。
This issue editor Xingtan recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
两个贫困县的艰难战“疫”。
Two poor counties of the difficult battle "epidemic."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "两个贫困县的艰难战“疫”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in two poor counties.
var msg_desc = "“数十人确诊，上百人被隔离，这对于一个小县来说，相当困难”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Dozens of people were diagnosed and hundreds isolated, which is quite difficult for a small county to service.";
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '女子排队买烤鸭时被感染',。
Was AT & P's service at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
