口罩进价6毛卖1元被罚？官方回应了！_媒体_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Mask Priced 6 Yuan Gross Penalty? Official Response! _ Media _ surging News - The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
澎湃号 > 人民法治。
Ruling by the people.
口罩进价6毛卖1元被罚？官方回应了！。
The mask was bought for $6 gross and fined? The authorities responded!
2020-02-13 16:30 来源：澎湃新闻·澎湃号·媒体。
2020-02-13 16: 30 Source: Peng Pai News, The Media.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
人民法治。
People rule by law.
关注。
Concern.
昨日，一则“进价6毛的口罩售价1元被罚”的消息在网络上引发争议。
Yesterday, the news that a six-cent mask was fined $1 sparked controversy on the Internet.
据羊城晚报13日消息，目前湖北省洪湖市已对该处罚启动重新调查，同时纪检部门也介入调查是否存在执法人员违纪等情况。
Yangcheng Evening News reported on the 13th, Hubei Province, the city of Honghu has launched a re-investigation of the punishment, disciplinary departments have also been involved in the investigation of whether there are law enforcement officials disciplinary cases.
图片来源：羊城晚报被处罚药店的老板毛先生在现场接受记者采访时表示，他并不支持口罩卖高价，被罚是内部沟通出了点问题。
Source: Yangcheng Evening News punished drugstore owner Mr. Mao told reporters at the scene that he did not support the high price of masks, was punished because of internal communication problems.
毛先生告诉记者，这次疫病，他还向红十字会捐了5万块钱，他经营的一家医院也腾出来给政府专门收治新冠肺炎病人。
Mao told reporters he also donated 50,000 yuan to the Red Cross, and that a hospital he runs has been set aside for the government to treat patients suffering from pneumonia.
“我的觉悟不会那么低，主要是药店最近我交给我女婿管了，他不太了解情况，因为口罩的进价一直在涨，这次涨价也没有跟我说。
"My consciousness is not so low, mainly because I recently handed over to my son-in-law, he did not understand the situation, because the purchase price of masks has been rising, this time did not tell me.
”被罚药店老板毛先生 图片来源：羊城晚报毛先生说，他没有去申请复议，也不想评价罚款是否有问题，但确实认为口罩在这个时期不应该涨价。
Source: Yang Cheng Evening News, Mr. Mao, said he did not apply for reconsideration and did not want to assess whether the fines were wrong, but did believe that the price of masks should not rise during this period.
记者在洪湖市几个较大的药店了解到，目前口罩仍有存货，普遍卖得不贵，一个医用外科口罩卖1块元左右，但有些药店要凭身份证限量购买。
Several large pharmacies in Honghu City learned that the mask is still in stock, generally not expensive, a medical surgical mask selling about $1, but some pharmacies have to rely on identity card limited purchase.
此前回顾据微信公众号“今日洪湖”9日消息，湖北洪湖一药房将进价0.6元的口罩卖1元，涉嫌哄抬价格被洪湖市市场监管局查处，没收违法所得14210元，罚款42630元。
A pharmacy in Honghu, Hubei Province, sold $1 worth of masks for 0.60 yuan, and was fined $42,630 for illegal earnings after being investigated and punished by the Honghu Municipal Market Regulatory Administration, a newspaper reported Wednesday.
12日下午，洪湖市市场监管局通过微博@洪湖发布 对相关处罚作出回应，表示该药房违反了两条规定。
On the afternoon of December 12, the Honghu Municipal Market Supervisory Authority issued a response to the punishment through Weibo @ Honghu, saying the pharmacy had violated two provisions.
声明称，2020年1月28日，因接到消费者投诉，洪湖市市场监管局执法人员对相关事实进行了调查，经了解，该药房于元月23日从仙桃某公司购进一次性劳保口罩44000支，购进价格0.6元/支，销售价格1元/支，该批次口罩没有中文标识。
The statement said that on January 28, 2020, due to a consumer complaint, law enforcement officers of the Honghu City Market Supervisory Authority investigated the facts and found that the pharmacy purchased 44,000 disposable labor masks from a company in Xiantao on January 23 at a purchase price of 0.60 yuan per unit and a sales price of $1.00 / unit.
声明称，根据湖北省市场监管局《关于新冠肺炎防控期间有关价格违法行为认定和处理的指导意见》，该药房违反两条规定：一是“公共卫生一级响应期间，与疫情相关的医用商品、防护消毒商品等一律不得涨价”；二是“所售商品无参照原价，购销差价额超过15%”的，构成哄抬价格行为。
According to the Hubei Provincial Market Supervisory Authority's Guidance on the Determination and Handling of Price Violations during the Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia, the pharmacy violated two provisions: "During the public health first-level response period, no price increase may be allowed for medical commodities related to the epidemic," the statement said.
报道消息和声明出来后，在网络上引起较大争议，不少网友认为，一块钱的口罩在“一罩难求”的当下完全是“良心价”，处罚哄抬物价不可理解。
After reporting news and statements, in the network caused more controversy, many netizens think that a dollar of masks in the "difficult to find" the moment is a "total conscience price", punishment coaxing price is incomprehensible.
针对该处罚，微博@国是直通车 采访了中国政法大学法治政府研究院院长王敬波。
In response to the punishment, Weibo @ China is a through train interview with the Dean of the Chinese University of Political Science and Law Wang Jingbo.
王敬波表示，这种处罚属于执法过度。
Mr Wang said the punishment was excessive.
疫情期间，各地政府虽应从重从快从严打击涉疫情产品的违法行为，但也要慎重执法。
During the outbreak, governments at all levels should severely crack down on illegal activities involving epidemic products, but they should also exercise caution in enforcing the law.
来源：中国青年报综合羊城晚报（记者 温建敏）、“今日洪湖”微信公众号、@国是直通车等责任编辑：王雪推荐阅读请长按二维码进行关注人民法治为良法善治发声为公平正义张目为法治中国建言为中华复兴鼎力原标题：《口罩进价6毛卖1元被罚？官方回应了！》。
www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn Yangcheng Evening News (reporter Wen Jianmin), "Honghu Today" micro-letter public number, @ country is through train.
关键词 >> 媒体号。
Keywords & gt; & gt; media number.
特别声明本文为媒体在澎湃新闻上传并发布，仅代表作者观点，不代表澎湃新闻的观点或立场，澎湃新闻仅提供信息发布平台。
Special statement this article for the media in the surging news upload and release, only represents the author's point of view, does not represent a strong news point of view or position, surging news only provides information dissemination platform.
。
.
收藏。
Collection.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
口罩进销差4毛就算“哄抬物价”？专业人士解惑。
Selling 4 cents on a mask is considered a "price hike"? Professionals are puzzled.
湖北洪湖一药房6毛口罩卖1元被罚4万，法学专家：执法过度。
Hubei Honghu a pharmacy 6 fur mask selling 1 yuan was fined 40, 000, legal expert: excessive law enforcement.
进价12售价128，市场监管总局公布哄抬口罩价格典型案件。
Purchase price 12 128, the General Administration of Market Supervision announced the price model case of bid masks.
评论（0）。
Comment (0).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
钟南山团队实验室在患者粪便中检出新冠活病毒。
The Zhong Nan Shan team laboratory detected the new coronary virus in patients' feces.
国家卫健委：新增15152例确诊病例，累计59804例。
National Health Commission: 15,152 new cases confirmed, a cumulative total of 59804 cases.
湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例4823例，累计51986例。
There were 4,823 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei province, a total of 51986 cases.
中央领导小组：孝感、黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等隔离救治措施。
Central leading group: filial piety, Huanggang and other places to take the same isolation and treatment measures as Wuhan.
热血出征。
Hot-blooded combat.
日本北方四岛海域发生7.0级地震。
Earthquake of magnitude 7.0 occurred off the northern islands of Japan.
中国生物：康复者血浆制品投入临床，患者体征症状明显好转。
Chinese Biology: The convalescent patients put the plasma products into clinical practice, the symptom of the patient obviously improved.
中疾控近九千新冠患者分析：老年男性风险大，R0为3.77。
Analysis of nearly 9 000 new crown patients with middle disease: elderly men at high risk, R0 was 3.77.
编造“上海出现3000例确诊病例”，男子被行拘10日。
The man was detained for 10 days to fabricate "3000 confirmed cases in Shanghai."
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
马上评丨诉诸情感的钟南山和诉诸专业的钟南山，合起来才完整。
Zhong Nan Shan, who immediately comments into emotion, and Zhong Nan Shan, the professional resort, are integrated.
武汉市中心医院主任蔡毅发文：悼念林军老板，我就这么送你了。
Wuhan City Central Hospital Director Cai Yi Fat Message: mourning Lin Jun boss, I gave you so.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
上海首例！一女子躲轿车后备厢入沪被查，目前已被强制隔离。
Shanghai's first case! A woman in a woman's back-up car into Shanghai has been investigated, has been forcibly isolated.
“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭：一线社区工作者口述。
"Seal the city" in Wuhan on the 20th century Pavilion: first-line community workers oral.
湖北首次将临床诊断病例数纳入新增数据，中央指导组专家详解。
Hubei for the first time the number of clinical diagnosis cases into the new data, the central guidance group of experts detailed understanding.
广州市疾控中心人员倒卖口罩被查处：降级并收缴违规所得。
Guangzhou CDC personnel resell masks were investigated and punished: demotion and seizure of illegal proceeds.
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
国家监委派调查组赴武汉就涉李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
The State Supervision sent an investigation team to Wuhan to make a comprehensive investigation on the matter concerning Dr. Li Wenliang.
武汉天佑医院防护服严重短缺，呼吁捐赠：否则只能用保鲜膜了。
Wuhan Tianyou Hospital protective clothing serious shortage, appeal for donations: otherwise can only use plastic film.
关注疫情防控 | 跟疫情赛跑，充实组织力量势在必行。
Concern with the epidemic has made it imperative to strengthen it in a race against the epidemic.
武汉市人社局对李文亮医生认定工伤：工亡补助金78万余元。
Wuhan Municipal Social Bureau of Dr. Lee Wenliang identified the injury: work-related benefits of more than $780,000.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
马上评丨让我们一起守住这座城。
The commentary keeps the city together.
湖北省卫健委党组书记主任双双被免职，两职务由王贺胜兼任。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary group secretary of the two were dismissed, both posts by Wang He Sheng double-hatted.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
国家监委调查组抵达武汉。
NNSC investigation team arrives in Wuhan.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
联防联控机制新闻发布会丨国家卫健委向李文亮表示深切哀悼。
The JCMB press conference expresses its deep condolences to Li Wenliang.
中央赴湖北指导组：以战时状态全力抓好源头防控。
Central guidance group to Hubei: to the wartime state of full focus on prevention and control at the source.
钟南山谈抗病毒特效药：这个要小心，伦理审查一定要通过。
Zhong Nan Shan talks about antiviral special medicine: This should be careful, the ethical examination must pass.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
