天津宝坻战“疫”记。
Tianjin Baodi Battle "Epidemic" Record.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
郭强/津云客户端一次猝不及防的病毒来袭，一场争分夺秒的防疫战，一个静悄悄的城区。
Guo Qiang / Zinyun client an unexpected virus attack, a race against the clock, a quiet city.
夜幕降临，离天津市区80多公里的宝坻区主干道上，绚丽的彩灯依次明亮起来，只是灯光扫描之处，没有了以往的喧嚣。
As night falls, more than 80 kilometers away from Tianjin downtown area of the main thoroughfare, gorgeous colorful lights turn bright, only the light scanning place, there is no previous noise.
除部分超市和药店外，其余各类商铺、饭馆都大门紧闭，马路上偶尔见到路人戴着口罩匆匆而过。
In addition to some supermarkets and pharmacies, other types of shops, restaurants are closed doors, the road occasionally saw passers-by wearing masks and hurried by.
这片位于天津、北京和唐山三个城市几何中心的区域，是京津冀防疫工作重要的一部分。
Located in the geometric center of Tianjin, Beijing and Tangshan, this area is an important part of Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei epidemic prevention work.
成为重点，意味着责任的重大。
To be focused means a great deal of responsibility.
所以，在这个表面沉寂安静的地方，一场空前的宝坻战“疫”紧锣密鼓、环环相扣地推进着。
So, in this seemingly quiet place, an unprecedented Baodi battle "epidemic" has been pushed forward in a series of close-knit attacks.
大幕拉开：一个不得不想到的严峻问题宝坻百货大楼位于繁华商业街，4000平方米营业面积，是宝坻人购物打卡地，尤其节假日，周边村镇的百姓也相约赶来，人流四方而至。
Baodi islet, a busy shopping area with 4000 square meters, is home to Baodi people who have been shopping in Baodi area, especially on holidays, when people from surrounding villages and towns have come to their homes.
宝坻百货大楼 本文图均为津云微信公众号 图谁都不会想到，2020春节前人们喜庆的采购，会引发一场空前的防疫战。
Baodi Department Store is designed to tell you nothing about the festive shopping spree ahead of the 2020 Spring Festival, triggering an unprecedented epidemic prevention campaign.
1月24日零时，天津市启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
At 0000 hours on 24 January, Tianjin launched a first-level response to major public health emergencies.
正月初一，宝坻百货大楼停业。
Baodi Department Store closed on January 1.
尽管形势严峻，但直到大年初六，宝坻一直安然无恙。
Despite the grim situation, Baodi was safe until the sixth day of the year.
紧张的气息是在2020年1月31日开始在宝坻区蔓延的。
The tension began to spread in the Po Zen district on January 31, 2020.
那天中午11∶00，一位50余岁、戴着口罩的女士走进宝坻人民医院，在分诊台问询后，她被安排到了发热门诊就诊。
At 11: 00 noon that day, a 50-year-old woman in a mask walked into Baodi People's Hospital and was admitted to a fever clinic after being questioned at the clinic.
原以为只是普通感冒发烧的她，经过门诊大夫的检查后，暂时被留在了医院。
Originally thought to be just a common cold fevers, after the outpatient doctor's examination, was temporarily left in the hospital.
11∶30，正在宝坻区疾控中心值班的郝肖阳接到了医院发热门诊电话：“我们这里有一例发烧病人，她没有武汉和湖北的接触史。
At 11: 30, Hao Xiao Yang, who is on duty at the CDC in Po Chao district, received a fever clinic call from the hospital.
但经过初步检查，症状很像新冠肺炎。
But after a preliminary examination, the symptoms look very much like new crown pneumonia.
”这是一个信号。
"It was a signal.
郝肖阳和同事马上驱车前往医院，“并没有觉得紧张，认为这是个例，我们完全可以进行防控。
"Hao and his colleagues drove to the hospital immediately." There was no nervousness about it.
之前我们已经做过多轮培训和学习。
We've had several rounds of training and study before.
”当时，郝肖阳还是比较乐观的。
"Hao Xiao-yang was optimistic at the time.
11∶45，赶到医院的郝肖阳见到了正在病房里的张女士。
Hao Xiao-yang, who arrived at the hospital at 11: 45, met Ms. Zhang who was in the hospital room.
郝肖阳和同事在病房里一边向张女士了解情况，一边等待进一步检测结果。
Hao and his colleagues were in the ward, checking with Ms. Zhang and waiting for further tests.
“当我们了解到，她是百货商场的一名销售人员时，紧张了起来。
"We got nervous when we learned that she was a saleswoman in a department store.
可以想象到她接触人肯定很多。
I can imagine how much she must be in touch with.
”郝肖阳回忆，通过和张女士沟通，他们掌握了她发病前14天行动轨迹，以及发病后的出行时间轴，时间精确到了每小时。
"Hao recalled communicating with Ms Zhang, who tracked her movements 14 days before her onset and the travel time axis after the onset of illness, to the point of being precise to an hour.
16∶40，郝肖阳接到了张女士的初诊结果，确诊为新冠肺炎。
16: 40 Hao Xiao-yang was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia after receiving the results of Ms. Zhang's initial diagnosis.
随后，张女士的检测标本被送往市疾控中心，等待最后的检测确定。
Subsequently, Ms. Zhang's test specimens were sent to the CDC, pending final test confirmation.
这时候，郝肖阳不得不想到一个严峻的问题：从第一例病例感染，到百货大楼闭市，其间，到底有多少人彼此擦肩而过？他们身在何处？防疫就是抢时间。
At this time, Hao Xiao Yang had to think of a serious problem: from the first case of infection, to the closure of department stores, in the meantime, how many people passed each other? Where are they? Vaccination is time.
郝肖阳和同事迅速赶到张女士的家里，通过问询和采样，张女士的丈夫也被确诊为感染新冠肺炎，随后被送往海河医院救治。
Hao and his colleagues rushed to Ms. Zhang's home. After questioning and sampling, Ms. Zhang's husband was also diagnosed with pneumonia and taken to Haihe Hospital for treatment.
当晚，宝坻区开始全方位寻找密切接触者和1月19日至1月25日在百货大楼的购物者，把他们妥善安置好，成为当务之急。
That evening, Po Chao District began a full-scale search for close contacts and January 19 to 25 in the department store shoppers, they were properly arranged, become a priority.
一场与病毒的角逐，拉开大幕。
A fight with the virus, the curtain went up.
全城动员：“吓我一跳，不让出门了”这是一场全城大动员。
The whole city mobilizes: "frighten me, do not let go out" this is a big mobilization of the city.
“还在睡觉，大喇叭忽然一下响起来了，吓我一跳。
"" While I was sleeping, the big horn blared suddenly and startled me.
告诉我们疫情严重，不让出门了。
Tell us the epidemic is so serious that we can't go out.
”宝坻辛务屯村村民王建说。
"Baodi islet village villager Wang Jian said.
不止王建一个人为此感到惊讶。
Wang Jian was not the only one who was surprised.
2月1日一大早，全区各街镇、村居和社区的大喇叭、小喇叭都轰然响起，且每天不限次巡回播报。
Early in the morning of February 1, loudspeakers and loudspeakers blared across the streets, villages and neighborhoods, and broadcast daily.
同时，全区成立了由公安、街镇、社区、卫生院组成的4人小组，深入各社区、村摸排走访。
At the same time, a four-member group composed of public security officers, street towns, communities and health institutions has been set up throughout the region to make detailed visits to communities and villages.
电视、广播、宣传车、融媒体“紧急寻人”。
TV, radio, propaganda vehicles, financial media "emergency tracing."
此时，在百货大楼超市工作、20岁的王丽（化名），正在家里玩着手机，一条宝坻区确诊人员的消息，进入她的视线。
Wang Li (not her real name), 20, who works in a department store, was playing with her cell phone when news of a diagnosis came out of a Po Zen district.
“心里咯噔了一下，我和被确诊人员不在一个区域内工作，但是，谁知道呢？离得也没那么远。
'I thought, 'I didn't work in the same area with the confirmed, but who knows? Not that far away.
”王丽说，疫情刚开始，她也看到了区里和居委会的通知，让大家少出门，戴口罩。
Wang said the outbreak had just begun when she saw signs from the district and neighborhood committees that people should go out less often and wear masks.
她没有出现任何的不适，所以就一直在家里待着。
She didn't feel any discomfort, so she stayed at home all the time.
很快，王丽接到了街道工作人员和区卫健委的电话。
Soon, Wang Li received phone calls from street workers and district health officials.
“电话里通知我，需要对我进行隔离观察，希望我配合。
"I was told by telephone that I needed to be quarantined and wanted me to cooperate.
”这让王丽有些崩溃，不知道将要面对什么，也不知道会跟什么样的人隔离在一起。
"This caused Wang Li to crumble, not knowing what she was going to face or what kind of person she was going to be isolated from.
2月3日，王丽拿了一些换洗衣服，家人开车送她到位于宝坻开发区的钰曦医学观察所。
On February 3, Ms. Wang took some change of clothes and her family drove her to Baodi's medical observatory in Baodi District.
“感觉很魔幻，穿着全套防护服的工作人员对我进行消毒，让我想起电影《生化危机》里的场景。
"It felt magical, disinfecting me in full protective gear and reminding me of the scenes from the film" The Crisis of Life. "
”随后，王丽被带进了6层一间有将近30平方米的房间，采光和视野还不错，可以看到远处的写字楼。
"Later, Wang Li was taken to a room on the sixth floor, nearly 30 square meters, with light and a good view of the office buildings in the distance.
房间有一股浓郁的酒精味道，桌子上放着口罩、体温计以及一张印着注意事项和医生联系方式的A4纸。
The room smelled of alcohol, with a mask on the table, a thermometer and an A4 sheet of paper bearing a note and doctor's contact details.
王丽在留观所让王丽印象最深刻的是2月3日晚上，她到这里吃的第一顿饭。
Wang Li was most impressed by Wang Li's first meal on the evening of February 3.
“三菜一汤，还有水果，非常好吃，比家里做的好。
"Three course and one soup, and the fruit, very delicious, better than at home.
”但孤单的感觉让王丽的前几天并不那么好过，“太静了，被隔离的人互相不会见面，就像一座座孤岛。
"But the feeling of loneliness made Wang Li's first few days not so good." It was so quiet that the isolated people would not meet each other, just like islands.
最难的时候，就给医护人员打电话，她们会陪我聊天。
The hardest part is to call the paramedics and they'll talk to me.
”随着时间的推移，王丽的这种疏离感在慢慢减少，走廊会传来有人打电话的声音，还有小孩子的哭闹声。
Over time, Wang's sense of alienation dwindled, and there were calls from people in the hallway, as well as cries from children.
通过声音感知彼此，虽然看不见，“但是你知道他们都陪着你。
Perceiving each other through sound, invisible as it is, "but you know they're all with you.
”王丽告诉记者，未知的才最可怕，刚开始很不理解为什么要单独隔离，感觉自己像是被关起来了，或担心已经受到了感染，恐惧让她不愿意配合医护人员的工作。
Wang told reporters that the unknown was the most frightening, beginning to understand why she had to be isolated, feel like she was locked up, or afraid she had been infected, and that fear made her reluctant to cooperate with health workers.
“现在想想，这段时间除了无聊一点，更像给自己放了一个长假，通过手机看新闻、看视频、玩游戏、跟家人聊聊微信，日子过得也不慢。
"Now think about it, it's more like a long vacation from your cell phone, watching the news, watching videos, playing games, talking to your family and having fun.
过几天我就结束观察期，可以回家了。
In a few days I'll be out of observation and ready to go home.
我就希望这场‘战疫’能早点结束，医护人员也能正常回家。
I just hope this' plague 'will be over soon and that the paramedics will be able to go home normally.
”报声平安：打赢之时才是团聚之日海滨医院副院长郭一是钰曦医学观察所的负责人，她陪王丽聊过两次天。
Winning was the day of the reunion. Guo Yi, vice-dean of the beachfront hospital, was the director of Yuxi's medical observatory, where she spent two days talking with Wang Li.
她能够感同身受被隔离人员的心理困境，因为她也已经有10多天没有回家了。
She was able to empathize with the psychological plight of the isolated person, as she had not returned home for more than 10 days.
留观所的医护人员郭一1月29日，她接到设立集中医学观察点的通知。
Guoyi, a medical worker at the detention center, was notified on January 29 that a centralized medical observation point had been set up.
很快，钰曦酒店被征用，在酒店现有布局的基础上，划分出了清洁区和污染区。
Soon, Yuxi hotel was requisitioned, in the existing layout of the hotel on the basis of the division of clean areas and contaminated areas.
酒店四到六楼的客房，被规划为污染区域。
Rooms on the fourth to sixth floors of the hotel are planned as contaminated areas.
从大堂西侧门进入，沿楼梯间通往二楼的医护人员工作区，这是清洁通道。
Access to the west entrance of the lobby. Follow the staircase to the second floor of the medical staff working area. This is a clean passage.
1月31日晚上，隔离点刚刚改造完成，陆陆续续就迎来了79位住客，他们中有老人，也有独自照顾孩子的母亲……依照相关规定，从入住起，他们需要被隔离14天并接受医学观察。
On the evening of January 31, just after the completion of the renovation of the quarantine point, a trickle of 79 residents arrived, including elderly people and mothers taking care of their children alone... According to the rules, they had to be quarantined for 14 days and under medical observation.
“您好，今天早上醒来体温多少？36.4℃，好的，注意开窗，口罩戴着，尽量多喝水……”电话机前，隔离点的医护人员郭一开始对着住客信息表，挨个给各房间打电话询问体温。
"Hello, how much is your temperature when you wake up this morning? 36.4 C, OK, open the window, wear a mask and drink as much water as possible..." Guo, a paramedic at the isolation point, started to call the room after room to ask for his temperature.
由于污染区与清洁区完全隔离，彼此之间的日常沟通全凭一根电话线。
As the contaminated area is completely isolated from the clean area, daily communication between the two depends on a single telephone line.
“电话里虽然只有只言片语，但从住客的语调、语言和周围的环境声能听出他们的情绪和状态，如果住客比较焦虑，我会和他多聊一点。
"There is only one phrase on the phone, but I can hear the mood and state of the guests from their tone of voice, their language and the ambient sound.
”一位住客量出的体温比平时略高一点，在电话里能听出对方非常害怕。
One resident took a slightly higher body temperature than usual and was able to detect fear on the phone.
“你别紧张，多休息，有时候体温是受情绪影响的……”临近11点钟，挂上最后一通电话，郭一才喝上今天的第一口水。
"Don't be nervous, take more rest. Sometimes your temperature is affected by your moods..." It was nearly 11 o'clock when Guo hung up the last phone and drank his first saliva today.
在这里，隔离人员被称为住客，而非病人。
Here, quarantine people are called residents, not patients.
“他们是确诊人员的密切接触者，需要重点观察。
"They are in close contact with people who have been diagnosed and need focused attention.
”进入隔离点，住客本身承受着巨大的心理压力，医护人员的大量工作是消除住客的焦虑。
Entering the isolation point, the occupants themselves are under great psychological pressure, and much of the work of the staff is to relieve the anxiety of the residents.
“要让他们觉得，‘我只是为了家人和其他人的安全来这里观察一下’。
"Make them feel, 'I'm just here to watch for the safety of my family and others'.
”自从进驻观察点，郭一已经没有回家的概念了，10名医护人员24小时轮班，每天工作十几个小时，与外界联系就靠一部手机，向家人只能深夜报声平安。
"Since the start of observation, Guo has had no idea of going home, with 10 paramedics working around the clock, working more than 10 hours a day, communicating with the outside world on a cell phone and telling their families that they were safe late at night.
“打赢这场战役之时，才是和家人团聚之日。
"The day we win this battle is the day we get together with our families.
”而像钰曦这样的留观所，宝坻区共准备了9个，目前启用了3个。
"And such a place as Yosei, Po Chao District prepared a total of nine, so far opened three.
截至2月12日早晨8点，宝坻区留观人员共366人。
As of 8 a.m. on Feb. 12, 366 people were visiting Po Kong.
万人筛查：隔离病毒不隔心疫情在发酵。
Million screening: Isolated virus is not isolated in fermentation.
截至2月11日，筛查百货大楼相关人员总数已达14000人以上。
As of 11 February, the total number of persons involved in screening department stores had reached more than 14,000.
截至2月12日，宝坻区确诊人数达到41人，绝大多数都与百货大楼相关。
As of February 12, 41 people had been diagnosed in Po Chao district, the vast majority associated with department stores.
不断上升的数字，强化着这样一个信息：这不是儿戏，这是切切实实的危险。
Rising numbers reinforce the message that this is not a joke, that it is a real danger.
为了进一步阻断疫情传播，宝坻区决定再一次主动出击，“撒大网捞小鱼”，将隐患清仓见底，确保患者能够及时得到救治。
In order to further stop the spread of the disease, Po Zen District decided to take the initiative once again, "net fishing small fish," hidden dangers to see the bottom, to ensure that patients can be timely treatment.
宝坻战“疫”进入白热化。
Baodi Battle "Iodi" enters into intense heat.
涉及宝坻全区的万人大筛查开始了。
Mass screening has begun in Baodi district.
这其中包括在钰曦留观所隔离的王丽所在的朝霞街道。
Among them is Wang Li's Chaoxia street, which is isolated from Ms. Yu.
2月11日晚上，为了让居民和村民能够提前了解筛查安排，减少人为阻力，提高执行效率。
On the night of 11 February, in order to enable residents and villagers to learn about screening arrangements in advance, artificial resistance was reduced and implementation efficiency improved.
宝坻区通过短信、微信公众号等形式，向全区居民发放了《关于广大群众配合入户调查的倡议书》。
Through SMS, micro-letter to the public in the form of the whole district, the "large masses of people to cooperate with the initiative to investigate."
2月12日一大早，宝坻的24个街镇1个开发区的所有基层工作人员开始行动起来。
Early in the morning of 12 February, all staff at the grass-roots level in a development area in Baodi, 24 neighbourhoods, were mobilized.
“我是街道工作人员，请开下门。
"I'm on the street. Open the door, please.
”“你什么时候去过百货大楼？最近有没有发烧、咳嗽、嗓子疼？密切接触者都有谁？身体怎么样？有什么不舒服的地方吗？”宝坻朝霞街道党工委委员、武装部长白永清在这次万人筛查中，和其他基层工作者共筛查了朝霞街道2000多人，无一发热人员。
"When have you been to a department store? Have you had a fever, cough, sore throat recently? Who's in close contact? How are you? What's wrong?" Armed Minister Bai Yongqing, a member of Baodi Chaoxia street party working committee, and other grass-roots workers screened more than 2,000 people from Chaoxia Street.
平时，白永清负责朝霞街道下属9个村的筛查和防疫工作，对百货大楼相关人员密切关注，一天两次记录他们的体温，要求居家隔离。
Normally, Bai Yongqing is responsible for screening and epidemic prevention in nine villages under Chaoxia Street, keeping a close watch on department stores, keeping track of their body temperature twice a day and demanding isolation.
每天走好几万步，接100多个电话，处理各种群众反映的信息，安抚大家的紧张情绪，挨家挨户打电话确认情况，对多个重点院落进行走访……白永清忙得脚不沾地。
Tens of thousands of steps a day, answering more than 100 phone calls, handling a variety of messages from the masses, calming people's nerves, calling from house to house to confirm the situation, visiting various key compounds... Bai Yongqing was very busy.
有些小区和村子的居民租户多，很多都在外地没回来。
Some communities and villages have large numbers of tenants, many of whom do not return from the field.
“我们只有反复上门，张贴温馨告知，经常去敲门，多做尝试。
"We only have to repeatedly door, post warm information, often knock on the door, try more.
”几天下来，白永清手都敲红了，甚至有些破皮。
"A few days down, Bai Yongqing's hands are red, even some broken skin.
“大部分居民都很自觉，个别有抵触。
"Most of the residents are conscious and individually resistant.
”白永清说，村子和小区的居民老人比较多，刚开始不是很理解，但是经过多轮的劝导，都知道了防疫的严重性，从原来的不配合到现在有情况主动汇报。
"Bai Yongqing said that the residents of the village and small areas are more elderly, not very understanding at the beginning, but after several rounds of persuasion, all know the seriousness of the epidemic prevention, from the original non-cooperation to the present situation of voluntary reporting.
“现在这个时期，每个人都需要配合，只有这样才能战胜疫情。
"This is a time when everyone needs to work together to overcome the epidemic.
”白永清说，疫情防控无小事，基层工作就是要让群众感受到党和政府的温暖一直都在。
"Bai Yongqing said that there are no trivial disease control, grass-roots work is to let the masses feel the warmth of the party and the government has always been.
隔离病毒不隔爱、不隔心，只要我们众志成城，一定能打赢这次疫情阻击战。
Isolation of the virus is not separated from love, as long as we are determined to win the battle against the epidemic.
封闭管理：进小区的，和进不了小区的雷霆出击，昼夜作战。
Closed management: into the community, and can not enter the district of Thunder Strike, day and night operations.
24个街镇一个开发区的筛查工作在24小时内如期完成，筛查百货大楼相关人员总数达19718人。
Screening of a development area in 24 blocks was completed on time and within 24 hours, bringing the total number of persons screened to 1,9718.
雷厉风行的背后，与宝坻区基层工作人员平时的奋战一线分不开。
Reactive behind, and Baoji District grass-roots staff in peacetime battle inseparable.
2月7日宝坻区区长毛劲松在新闻发布会上说：“只要一个小区或一个村子，发现两例以上确诊病例，将进行封闭管理。
"If only one community or village finds more than two confirmed cases, it will be under closed management," Mao Jinsong, chief of the district of Pao Zheng, said at a press conference on February 7.
”疫情防控在升级。
Prevention and control are escalating.
宝平街河景馨园社区是最早实行全封闭管理的小区之一。
Baoping Street Hejingxingyuan community is one of the first fully closed management of the community.
社区工作人员、志愿者和公安干警组成的小组负责管理整个小区的防疫安全。
A team of community workers, volunteers and public security constables manages the security of the entire neighbourhood.
在小区入口处，张贴着封闭管理的公告：“因新型冠状病毒形势非常严峻，涉及地域不断增加，为了确保小区所有居民健康、安全，小区实施封闭管理。
At the entrance to the small area, a notice of closed management was posted: "Because of the serious situation of the new coronavirus, involving an increasing number of localities, closed management is being carried out in order to ensure the health and safety of all residents of the small area.
非本小区人员、车辆，一律不得入内。
No person or vehicle in this area shall be admitted.
”河景馨园小区门口“整个小区有964户居民，2000多人。
"The area has 964 residents and more than 2,000 people," he said.
其中两栋楼里的居民实行完全隔离，其他居民除非特殊情况，不允许离开小区。
The residents of two of the buildings were completely isolated and the others were not allowed to leave the neighbourhood except in exceptional circumstances.
”河景馨园居委会主任孙冰告诉记者，疾控部门对隔离区周边的环境，包括公共区域、过道、大门、门把手、电梯、地下室，都按照国家标准进行了彻底消毒。
Sun Bing, director of a residential committee for Hejingxingyuan, told reporters that the CDC had thoroughly disinfected the environment surrounding the area of separation, including public areas, walkways, gates, doorknobs, elevators and basements, in accordance with national standards.
现在河景馨园小区严格执行“全民不出门”行动，每户家庭（居家隔离家庭除外）每两天可指派一名家庭成员出门采购生活物资，其余人员除生病就医、疫情防控工作需要，以及在保障公共事业运行、群众生活及其他涉及重要国计民生的重要岗位上班外，一律不得外出。
Every two days, every family (except those living in isolated homes) may assign a family member to go out to purchase household goods. The rest are not allowed to go out except for sick medical treatment, epidemic prevention and control work, and work in important public utility operations, public life and other important posts related to the livelihood of the country.
“目前社区已给被隔离的居民建立了档案，并且专门建立了一个群，需要什么只要及时跟我们沟通，我们会有专门的工作人员出去采买，对于居家隔离的家庭，会给他们送上门。
"The community has now set up an archive of isolated residents and a special group to talk to us about what needs to be done.
”孙冰说。
"said Sun Bing.
社区隔离，居民生活保障是关键。
Segregation of the community, the security of the population is key.
孙冰介绍，在小区开始实施隔离后，上级部门协调了劝宝超市进驻小区，作为物资供应点，不论是米面油，还是菜肉副食奶制品，一应俱全。
Sun Bing said that after the implementation of isolation in the community, superior departments have coordinated the persuasion of the supermarket into the small area, as supplies point, whether rice noodle oil, vegetable meat and dairy products.
“居民可以不用外出，在小区内就可以买到基本的生活物资。
"Residents can buy basic necessities in small areas without going out," he said.
在超市里基本生活物资保证充足，并且每天物资都会进行补充，不会让小区居民因为小区封闭而生活不便。
In the supermarket to ensure adequate basic necessities, and daily supplies will be replenished, will not let the residents of small areas because of the isolation of living inconvenience.
”河景馨园小区居民在进驻超市买菜“宝坻区现在设有4个物资储备库，对米、面、油、蛋、绿叶菜等21种生活必需品进行了充足储备。
The Po Zang district now has four stores, stocked with 21 necessities, including rice, flour, oil, eggs and leafy greens.
”宝坻区商务委办公室副主任科员马宏颖告诉记者，宝坻区货源充足，物价平稳，确保关键时刻群众买得到、用得上。
Ma Hongying, deputy director of the commerce committee office, told reporters that Baoji district is well-stocked and prices are stable to ensure that the people can buy and use it.
宝坻区发改委副处级调研员曹庆玲介绍，宝坻是农业大区，拥有大型蔬菜基地20余个，大型养殖场数量也很多，自身供应很充足。
Baoji District Development and Reform Commission deputy investigator Cao Qingling said Baodi is a large agricultural area, with more than 20 large vegetable bases, a large number of farms and its own supply.
目前全区储备米面347吨、肉类2.5吨、鸡蛋10吨、蔬菜210吨、水果21吨、原粮31000吨、小麦7000吨，够全区80万人口2个月的供应。
It now has 347 tons of rice, 2.5 tons of meat, 10 tons of eggs, 210 tons of vegetables, 21 tons of fruit, 31,000 tons of raw grains and 7,000 tons of wheat, enough to feed the region's 800,000 people for two months.
严防死守：“每一户都走访和打过电话”宝坻是一个涉农区，农业人口较多，现在宝坻区的任务从“内防扩散、外防输入”到对内防止疫情扩散，对外，防止疫情输入的同时，更要防止疫情输出。
Every Household Visit and Call Update is a rural area with a large agricultural population. Now the tasks of Baoquan district range from internal non-proliferation and external defense to preventing the spread of the disease at home and, externally, to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
其中，防止疫情由城区向农村扩散是重中之重。
Preventing the spread of the epidemic from urban to rural areas is a top priority.
宝坻区正在对351个社区和村进行严防死守！宝坻区辛务屯村，像诸多村庄一样，随着疫情扩散和政府的宣传，村民逐渐意识到此次疫情的严重性。
The village of Xinzutun in Pauvn district, like many other villages, is becoming aware of the severity of the outbreak as the epidemic spreads and the government publicizes it.
为了减少不必要的人员流动，减少病毒传播的可能，村子开始设卡封村，不允许随意进出。
In order to reduce the unnecessary movement of people and reduce the possibility of virus transmission, the village began to set up the village block, not allowed to enter and leave freely.
路口拉上隔离线，设置了登记桌位，要求村民进出时登记信息，并测量体温。
Crossings were closed, registration desks were set up, villagers were asked to register information when entering and leaving, and temperature was taken.
封闭的辛务屯村“每一户人家我们都走访和打过电话，去过省外的进行登记，自我观察；如果是近期从湖北省回来的，那就强制要求居家隔离。
In every house we visit and call, we register and observe ourselves outside the province; if we have recently returned from Hubei province, it is mandatory to keep people in isolation.
”辛务屯村党支部书记唐连江说，现在基本全村人都不出门，如果一些必要岗位有工作需求的，必须拿着单位的证明信才能进出。
Tang Lianjiang, secretary of the party branch in Xintun village, said the village was now largely closed and had to bring letters of attestation from the unit if there was a need for jobs.
“我们每天给隔离人员打电话，要求两次报体温。
"We called the quarantine man every day and asked to have our temperature taken twice.
不允许出门，有需求提出来，村里成立了服务队，满足隔离群众各种生活需求。
Not allowed to go out, there is a need to put forward, the village set up a service team, to meet the isolation of various living needs.
”唐连江说，全体村民平常采买物品，可以先打电话给村子里的供应超市，超市给准备好以后，村民付款后直接拿走，减少接触和聚集。
All villagers can call the village's supply supermarket, which is ready to pay for them and then take them directly, reducing contact and gathering, Tang said.
唐连江告诉记者，农村地区医疗条件相对薄弱，村党组织充分发挥战斗堡垒作用，严格加强管理检测，减少人员流动，切实做到早发现、早报告、早隔离、早治疗，严防病毒蔓延。
Tang told reporters that medical conditions in rural areas are relatively weak, the village party organizations play a full role in the role of the Fort Battle, strictly strengthen management and testing, reduce the movement of personnel, ensure early detection, early reporting, early isolation, early treatment, and strictly prevent the spread of the virus.
充分利用农村大喇叭，向村民们讲清楚，严格管理就是对乡亲们生命健康的高度负责。
Make full use of the rural loudspeaker to tell the villagers clearly that strict management is highly responsible for the life and health of villagers.
有人动起来，是在跟时间赛跑，争夺健康主动权，有人宅在家，是在用一部分自由让渡严峻形势下的疫情防控。
Some people are moving, is a race against time, for the right to health initiative, some people at home, is a part of the freedom to surrender the severe situation of the disease control.
摸排、隔离、留观、诊断 ……登记在册、现状追踪、封闭管理、设卡封路……储备物资、充足供应、个体服务……方方面面，都在践行着“采取有力措施，加大联防联控、群防群控力度，严之更严、细之更细，坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战”的信心和决心。
Mapping, quarantining, visiting and diagnosing... registration, status quo tracking, containment management, barricading and sealing... reserves, adequate supplies, individual services, etc., are carrying out the confidence and determination to "take vigorous measures to strengthen joint control and group control, tighten and tighten the detail, and resolutely win the battle against epidemic prevention and control."
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
天津宝坻战“疫”记。
Tianjin Baodi Battle "Epidemic" Record.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "天津宝坻战“疫”记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '继续延迟！',。
continues to delay! & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
