曾在华南海鲜市场打工，荆州第一例治愈者口述：我是幸运的。
Once worked in the South China Seafood Market, the first cure in Jingzhou oral: I was lucky.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
截至1月30日10点03分，中国新型冠状病毒感染肺炎确诊病例突破7000例，达到7736例，疑似病例12167例，死亡170例，治愈出院124例。
By 1003 hours January 30, the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia in China had exceeded 7,000, reaching 7,736, with 12,167 suspected cases and 170 deaths, and 124 cases cured.
据报道，在武汉封城之前，有500万人离开了这座城市。
Five million people reportedly left the city before the city was closed in Wuhan.
位于武汉西南部、曾是湖北第二大城市的荆州市，成为湖北省承接离汉人口最多的城市之一，仅次于黄冈和孝感。
Located in southwest Wuhan, once the second largest city in Hubei Province, Jingzhou has become one of the most populous cities in Hubei Province to receive Han population, after Huanggang and filial piety.
截至1月29日24时，这座拥有641万人口的城市确诊新型冠状病毒感染肺炎151例，死亡3例，治愈1例，荆州版「小汤山」医院已投入使用。
As of 2400 hours January 29, the 6.41 million-strong city had confirmed 151 cases of pneumonia, 3 cases of death and 1 case of cure.
在严峻的疫情面前，希望是珍贵的。
In the face of a severe epidemic, hope is precious.
《人物》记者采访到了荆州市第一例、也是目前唯一一例治愈的患者王平和他的接诊医生、荆州市胸科医院感染科主任刘昌华。
"People" reporter interviewed Jingzhou City's first case, and is currently the only case of cure Wang Ping and his doctor, Jingzhou Chest Hospital Infection Director Liu Changhua.
王平46岁，在武汉华南海鲜市场工作了四年，感染病毒之后，他一度濒临极其危险的处境。
Wang Ping, 46, worked for four years at Wuhan South China Seafood Market and was once in serious danger after contracting the virus.
从他的讲述里，我们可以看到，他没有遭遇确诊的艰难、湖北医疗系统的过载，在大部分人对这场大疫的警觉还未被唤醒时，得到了恰当的诊断和不计成本的治疗，他是幸运的。
From his account, we can see that he did not encounter the difficulties of diagnosis, Hubei medical system overload, when most people have not been awakened to the pandemic, the appropriate diagnosis and cost-free treatment, he is fortunate.
文｜张月编辑｜槐杨荆州市首例治愈出院患者王平的口述我是在武汉华南海鲜市场关停那天（1月1日）感觉到症状的，觉得浑身有点疼。
less than twenty-one month old, locust, less than a month, yesteryear, less than locust, yeg's dictation I felt a little sore on the day the seafood market in south China closed in Wuhan (January 1).
那天上午我还在工作，海鲜市场关了就跟着老板去汉口的另外一家海鲜市场「四季美市场」卖鱼，下午就觉得不舒服，以为是感冒，去一家小诊所里打了针，第二天继续去上班。
When the seafood market closed, I went to the Four Seasons Market, another seafood market in Hankou. I felt sick that afternoon and thought I had a cold. I went to a small clinic and went back to work the next day.
过了两天就觉得胸闷，开始发烧，烧到38度5，还是去小诊所打退烧针，打一针体温下去点儿，降到37度多，但过半天又会烧起来。
After two days feeling chest tightness, began to fever, burning to 38 degrees 5, or go to a small clinic to reduce the fever, a shot temperature down to 37 degrees, but will burn up in half a day.
1月4号，我看新闻上说华南海鲜市场有很多人都得了那个新型冠状病毒肺炎，被送到金银潭医院了，我有点担心自己，就去武汉红十字会医院（第十一医院）做了个检查，抽血，给肺部照了个片子，医生看完片子，说我没有那个新型病毒的迹象。
On January 4, I read on the news that a lot of people in the South China seafood market have got the new coronavirus pneumonia and were taken to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. I was a little worried about myself.
他们也没问我在华南海鲜市场的工作经历，那个时候大家都不重视这个事，哪个知道会这么严重？武汉也只是把海鲜市场封了。
They also did not ask me about my work experience in the South China Seafood Market. At that time, people didn't attach importance to it.
医院说我没事，我就走了，上午去市场正常上班，下午就继续在小诊所里输液。
The hospital said I was fine, so I left. I went to the market in the morning and continued infusion in the afternoon.
输了两天还是没好，1月6号我就换了一家诊所。
After two days of losing, I changed my clinic on January 6.
那个医生给我打了两针，但我当时已经高烧39度了，我就说，你这个针没有用。
The doctor gave me two shots, but I had a high fever of 39 degrees and I said, You needn't work.
他问我的症状，我说胸闷、高烧，他说我跟金银潭医院里那些得肺炎的差不多，我说我做了检查，把片子给他看，他也说，从片子上看，我不是那个症状，但他觉得我可能是另外一种病毒，建议我回老家荆州看，还可以报销。
He asked me the symptoms, I said chest tightness, high fever, he said I and the gold and silver pool hospital pneumonia, I said I did check, show him the film, he said, from the film, I was not that symptoms, but he thought I might be another virus, back home Jingzhou, can be reimbursed.
1月7号下午两点半，我就到了荆州市胸科医院，直接跟他们说，我是华南海鲜市场出来的。
January 7th, at 2: 30 p.m., I went to Jingzhou Chest Hospital and told them directly that I was from the South China Seafood Market.
那个戴口罩的医生一听就很惊讶，马上就去穿衣服（隔离服），十几分钟之后就把我隔离了，关在一个房间里面。
Surprised, the mask-wearing doctor went to dress (in isolation) and locked me up in a room after ten minutes.
因为我是荆州第一个病例，整个医院都很惊讶，也非常重视。
Because I was the first case in Jingzhou, the whole hospital was surprised and attached great importance to it.
后来护士跟我说，7号晚上市卫健委就组织专家来研究我这个病。
Later the nurse told me that on the night of the 7th, the city health committee organized an expert to study my illness.
他们给我做检查，CT，抽血，该做的、能做的，都做了。
They gave me a checkup, a CT, a blood sample, something to do, something to do, everything.
那天晚上一点钟吧，医生说，认为我是新型冠状病毒肺炎。
'At one o'clock that evening, 'said the doctor,' and consider me the new coronavirus pneumonia.
护士劝我不要紧张，放松就好弄。
The nurse advised me not to be nervous, just relax.
其实我不紧张，我已经得了这个病了，还紧张什么呢？我一个打工的农民，治好了就治好了，没治好，我又不是个什么人物，治死了也就治死了，能怎么搞呢？我后来想，得这个病可能是因为我在华南海鲜市场工作的时候没有戴口罩。
In fact, I am not nervous, I have this disease, what is nervous about? I work a farmer, cured, not cured, I am not a figure, I die, what can happen? I later thought that the disease may be because I worked in the South China Seafood Market without wearing a mask.
我在那边工作四年，一开始是卖菜，后来帮别人搬运海鲜，主要是鲑鱼和鲈鱼，每天凌晨三点开始工作，把货车运到市场门口的海鲜搬到摊位上，分拣鱼类，一直到上午十点钟结束，每个月大概有五千块的收入。
I worked there for four years, first selling vegetables, then helping others carry seafood, mainly salmon and perch. I started working at three in the morning, hauling seafood from lorries to the market door to the stalls, sorting the fish, until ten in the morning and earning about $5,000 a month.
我们那个市场卫生状况不是蛮好，一走进去，里面的气味就挺大，一种说不上来的味道。
Our market sanitary situation is not quite good, once walked in, the smell inside is quite big, a kind of indescribable taste.
我在里面工作那么长时间根本就没戴过口罩，干活的哪能戴？市场里卖野味的有二十多家，集中在一条通道上，蛇都是堆在门口卖，还有杀了的鸡鸭也摆在门口卖，地上都是油，一走就带起来了，我们基本不走那条道，怕滑倒。
I have been working there so long that I have not worn a mask at all, how can I work? There are more than twenty venison in the market, gathered in one passage, snakes are sold at the door, and killed chickens and ducks are sold at the door, and the ground is full of oil.
当时我觉得我是运气不好，跟我一起干的人都没事，啥症状都没有。
At the time, I felt that I was unlucky. The people I worked with were fine and had no symptoms.
我一个亲戚在市场里待了一个星期，他没事，就我一个人有事。
One of my relatives stayed in the market for a week. He was fine. I was alone.
在荆州市胸科医院，我进了隔离病房之后就没有出来，待了整整21天。
In Jingzhou Chest Hospital, I entered the isolation ward and did not come out, stayed for 21 days.
就每天抽血、化验、量体温、输液，具体用了哪些药我也不知道，反正早上做完检查后，就开始吊水（输液），每天吊十多瓶，从早上吊到晚上两点钟。
I don't know what kind of medicine I use every day for blood sampling, testing, temperature measurement and infusion. Anyway, after the morning check, I began to hoist water (infusion), hanging more than ten bottles a day, from morning till two o'clock at night.
一开始病情不断加重，我就感觉呼吸困难，烧到了39度。
At first it got worse and I had difficulty breathing until I was 39 degrees.
这个病毒把人整得太狠，头五六天根本没法下床，人都是恍恍惚惚的，一点力气都没有，连拿个手机都没劲，也吃不下饭，大小便都在床上。
The virus makes people too tough to get out of bed for the first five or six days, and people are either stupefied or stupefied, or have no energy to pick up a cell phone, or eat or eat, or urinate in bed.
病区里三个护士轮流照顾我，我很感激她们。
The three nurses in the sick area took turns taking care of me. I appreciate them.
按我们土话说，我就是个定时炸弹，除了医生护士他们，哪还有人接触我，接触我就要被感染。
In our vernacular, I am a time bomb, except for the doctors and nurses, there is no contact with me, I will be infected.
好在我没有什么其他疾病，只是感染了这个病毒，在重症隔离病房治疗十几天之后，基本稳定住了，也不发烧了，就转出到轻症隔离病房，做一些比较基本的治疗，渐渐状况稳定了，27号我就出院了。
Fortunately, I did not have any other diseases, just infected with the virus, after 10 days of treatment in the intensive care unit, basically stable, no fever, then transferred out of the light disease isolation ward, do some more basic treatment, gradually stabilized, I left the hospital on the 27th.
现在觉得身体挺好的，就是瘦了点，住院的时候我150多斤，现在140斤出头。
Now I feel in good health, is a bit thin, when I was hospitalized more than 150 jin, now 140 jin.
我感觉我还是很幸运的。
I feel like I'm lucky.
要是在武汉的话，我估计都治疗不上，按当时的标准，我只能算轻微，可能就让我回家了。
If I had been in Wuhan, I would not have been able to treat it. By the standards of the time, I would have been only slightly, and probably would have sent me home.
但当时荆州只有我一个人，得到了充分的治疗。
But I was the only one in Jingzhou who received adequate treatment.
我很感激他们救了我一条命。
I'm grateful they saved my life.
感染科主任刘昌华的口述1月7号下午两点半，王平来了，正好是我的门诊。
Director of Infection Liu Changhua oral January 7 at 2: 30 p.m., Wang Ping came, just my clinic.
当时我关注了华南海鲜市场关闭的事情，就问了他几句。
I followed the closure of the South China seafood market and asked him a few questions.
他说自己是从华南（海鲜市场）回来的，我当即就疏散了我们门诊的病人，通知医护人员做好防护，并向院领导和医务科汇报，又把其他病人撤走，把他单独隔离。
He said he had come back from South China (seafood market) and I immediately evacuated the patient from our clinic, told the paramedics to take precautions, reported to the hospital director and medical section, evacuated the other patients and isolated him.
我从事传染病治疗30年了。
I've been treating infectious diseases for 30 years.
在医院里，感染科并不是最受重视的，医护人员待遇也不高。
In the hospital, the infection department is not the most important, and the treatment of medical personnel is not high.
有很多同行改行，去做肝病或者其他治疗，但我一直在感染科，我有这个专业的敏感性。
There are a lot of colleagues who have changed careers to liver disease or other treatments, but I've been in the infection department and I have this professional sensitivity.
4点10分左右，院领导组织了专家会诊，高度怀疑是这个病（新型冠状病毒肺炎），我们就在CT机下做经皮肺穿刺，排除了结核病和真菌，又做血检，检验科加班检查，一直做到晚上11点半。
At about 4: 10 a.m., the hospital leadership organized an expert consultation, highly suspicious of the disease (new coronavirus pneumonia), and we had percutaneous lung puncture, tuberculosis and fungi excluded under the CT machine, blood tests, overtime inspection, until 11: 30 pm.
为了采样，还给他做了纤支镜肺泡灌洗，这个检查风险比较高，我们一般不会做，这次是冒着风险，也做了检查。
He was also given a fiberoptic alveolar lavage for sampling, which was a high-risk examination that we would not normally do, this time at the risk of doing so.
最后我们排除了其他病，认为是这个病，于是向市卫健委和市委汇报，市委向省委汇报，1月9号，省里就派了专家过来，也认为是这个病。
Finally, we ruled out other diseases, think it is the disease, so the city health committee and municipal committee reported to the provincial committee, January 9, the province sent experts to come, also think it is the disease.
这是荆州市首例新型冠状病毒肺炎，应该说我们反应还是很快的，在第一源头就把它掐住了。
This is the first case of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Jingzhou. It should be said that we still responded quickly and choked it at the first source.
后来市里说，那天幸好是我的门诊，要换一个不是搞传染病的人，可能会造成这个病人到处走，情况就不一样了。
Luckily, the city said, it was my outpatient department, and it would be different if someone other than the infectious disease could cause the patient to walk around.
当时，武汉已经出现了新型冠状病毒肺炎，荆州也采取了一些措施，但是跟「非典」那时一样，一开始没有引起太大的重视。
At that time, Wuhan has appeared a new coronavirus pneumonia, Jingzhou also took some measures, but like SARS at the time, did not attract much attention at the outset.
我们湖北在疫情信息公开化这一块，当时大家都觉得没有人传人，可防、可控、可治，有些误导在里面，大家都不怎么急。
We in Hubei in the epidemic information open this piece, at that time everyone felt that there was no human-to-human, preventable, controllable, treatable, some misleading in the inside, we are not too anxious.
但他的家属挺害怕的。
But his family was scared.
他刚来我们医院的时候，有两个家属陪他一起就诊，我一说是这个病，他的家属就不见了，我再找家属也找不到了。
When he first came to our hospital, he was accompanied by two family members. As soon as I said it was the disease, his family disappeared and I couldn't find any more family members.
荆州胸科医院感染科早上交班，右二为刘昌华开始一周，他的病情在不断加重。
Jingzhou Chest Hospital infection division in the morning shift, the second right for the beginning of a week, his condition in the worsening.
这个病毒性肺炎没有特效药，它有一个发展过程，到顶峰就只能靠他自己扛。
This viral pneumonia has no specific medicine, it has a development process, to the summit can only be carried by himself.
一度他出现了严重的呼吸衰竭，在不给氧的情况下氧分压只有30。
At one point he developed severe respiratory failure, with oxygen partial pressure of only 30 without oxygen.
通常我们正常人是80，低于60就是呼吸衰竭，他还不到40，那是要死人的。
Usually we're normal 80, below 60 or respiratory failure, and he's under 40, and he's dead.
我们就给他面罩供氧，调节氧流量，同时输免疫球蛋白，这个是增强抵抗力的，相当贵，15克一支600块钱，每天要输6支。
We give him oxygen for the mask, regulate oxygen flow, and induct immunoglobulin, which increases resistance and is quite expensive, at 15 grams of $600 a day, losing six.
他不知道我们吊的是多么金贵的东西。
He didn't know what a gold thing we were hanging from.
他当时没办住院手续，也没交钱，我们也没有考虑费用的问题，除了免疫球蛋白，抗病毒、抗细菌真菌的药，还有激素，全方位都给他用上了。
He didn't check in, he didn't pay, and we didn't consider the cost, except for immunoglobulins, antiviral, antibacterial fungal drugs, and hormones.
还成立了专班，三个护士八个小时一班轮班倒，对他进行特护。
A special class of three nurses working in shifts of eight hours was also set up to provide him with intensive care.
他在隔离病房里面，所有的吃喝拉撒都是护士在照顾。
He was in the isolation ward, and all the food and drink and rasa were taken care of by nurses.
最终治疗费用可能有20多万。
The final cost of treatment could be more than 200,000.
到1月15号，他的病情就逐步缓解，状况稳定下来了。
By January 15, his condition gradually eased and stabilized.
他是幸运的，没有什么基础疾病，扛过来了。
He's lucky. There's no underlying disease. Come on.
现在有这么多的死亡病例，大部分都是有基础疾病的。
There are so many deaths, most of which are of a basic nature.
也是那一天，我们医院接收了第二个病例，从那之后，人越来越多。
On the same day, our hospital received a second case, and since then, more and more people have been admitted.
我们感染科加我一共4个大夫、11个护士，15个人连轴转，其他科室的人也来支援。
We've got Cogar I've got 4 doctors, 11 nurses, 15 people running around, and people from other departments.
医院领导给我们下了命令：只要怀疑是新型冠状病毒的，病人不挂号，不交费，直接住院，无条件。
Hospital leadership gave us an order: as long as the suspicion of a new coronavirus, patients do not register, do not pay fees, direct hospitalization, unconditional.
最开始荆州的定点医院就我们一家，因为我们胸科医院，在治疗肺病、呼吸道疾病方面有专长，其他医院只要怀疑的随时会转到我们这儿来，我们有几个专家一起看，往往晚上10点或者11点钟还在会诊，如果一致觉得这个病人疑似，马上报市里疾控中心，采样送疾控中心确诊，做核酸测试最少需要8个小时的时间。
Since our Chest Hospital is specialized in treating lung and respiratory diseases, other hospitals are always ready to transfer their suspicions to us. We have a few experts at the same time. If the patient is suspected, we will report to CDC and send samples to CDC for diagnosis.
我侧面了解到，确诊一个病人的成本也很高，检查成本大概几千多。
I've learned in profile that the cost of diagnosing a patient is also high, and the cost of an examination can be in the thousands.
确诊之后，我们要在两小时内把「疑似」改成「确诊」，上报国家疾控网，计入现在公布的确诊人数。
After the diagnosis, we have to change the "suspected" to "confirmed" within two hours and report it to the National CDC.
确诊之后我们要马上收治，最高的一晚上收了六七个，我们医院的隔离床位最多收治65个病人，后来收不下了，荆州其他医院也开始收治病人。
After the diagnosis, we have to accept treatment immediately, the highest one night received six or seven, our hospital isolation bed for a maximum of 65 patients, later unable to collect, Jingzhou other hospitals began to accept patients.
那时王平的状况已经很稳定了，我们就把他转移到了另一个病区，做一些基本治疗。
Wang Ping's condition was stable by then, so we moved him to another area for some basic treatment.
后来又给他做了两次核酸检测，都是阴性，加上他的大多数症状已经没有了，符合国家的出院标准，26号，我们就通知他出院。
He was later tested for nucleic acid twice, both negative, and since most of his symptoms were gone, in accordance with the State's discharge criteria, No. 26, we informed him to leave the hospital.
27号早上，离开的时候，王平跟他的管床医生说，虽然你穿着防护服，我不认识你，但你一讲话，声音一听我知道是你了。
On the morning of the 27th, as he was leaving, Wang Ping told the doctor in charge of his bed that even though you were wearing protective clothing and I didn't know you, your voice when you spoke I knew it was you.
护理他的三个护士，他一看，说我知道你，我知道你，特别感谢你。
Nursing his three nurses, he looked, said I know you, I know you, special thanks to you.
医院里还有一个确诊病人，住院一段时间了，状况不太好，自己也很灰心，但现在王平出院了，我们荆州第一个确诊病人出院了，给他很大信心，他也正在认真配合我们的治疗，估计7到10天之后，他会成为我们第二例出院的确诊病人。
At the hospital there was a confirmed patient who had been hospitalized for some time. He was in a bad condition and he was very frustrated with himself. But now Wang Ping is discharged from hospital.
荆州市胸科医院感染科医护人员（王平为化名。
Department of Infection Department of Jingzhou Chest Hospital (Wang Ping alias.
本文封面及文中所有图片由荆州市胸科医院供图。
The cover and all pictures in this article are supplied by Jingzhou Chest Hospital.
）。
).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
曾在华南海鲜市场打工，荆州第一例治愈者口述：我是幸运的。
Once worked in the South China Seafood Market, the first cure in Jingzhou oral: I was lucky.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "曾在华南海鲜市场打工，荆州第一例治愈者口述：我是幸运的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "他幸运地得到恰当的诊断和不计成本的治疗。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he was lucky to have had proper diagnosis and reckless treatment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
