黄冈医生讲述隔离区经历：穿防护服小憩，有动静就蹦起来。
Dr. Huanggang told about the isolation zone experience: wear protective clothing to rest, there is movement on the jump.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
黄冈的第一个病例是一名司机，是给武汉的华南海鲜市场运送海鲜的。
The first case in Huanggang was a driver delivering seafood to Wuhan's South China seafood market.
因为业务原因，这个司机在黄冈的黄州中心菜市场逗留过。
For business reasons, the driver stayed at the Huangzhou central market in Huanggang.
黄州区人民医院的医护人员在防护服背面贴上了“黄冈加油”，以此鼓励自己。
Huangzhou District People's Hospital medical personnel in the back of protective clothing affixed "Huanggang refueling" to encourage themselves.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者梁静怡 王飞翔编辑｜滑璇校对|李世辉►本文约4875字，阅读全文约需9分钟最近几日天气不错，阳光散发着暖意。
Respondents for Beijing News: Liang Jingyi Wang, flight editor, about 4875 words. It takes about 9 minutes to read the full text. The weather has been nice these days, and the sun is warm.
2月10日，从一线下来后在家中自我隔离、调整的湖北省黄冈市黄州区人民医院医生林方（化名）收到了一条信息：“感觉身体状况恢复得还不错！感谢你这段时间在这个非常时期陪我们渡（度）过的每一天……为今天有你们这样一群人感到骄傲、温暖、感动。
Lin Fang (not his real name), a doctor at Huangzhou District People's Hospital in Huanggang, Huanggang City, Hubei Province, received a message on Feb. 10, 2008.
”信息来自一名治愈出院的新冠肺炎患者，林方感觉自己的付出都是值得的。
"The information came from a man who had been discharged from hospital with pneumonia in the New Crown, and Lin felt his efforts were worth it.
黄冈距离武汉市大约70公里，搭乘城际列车半小时即可到达。
Huanggang is about 70 kilometers away from Wuhan and can be reached by intercity train in half an hour.
当众人将目光聚焦武汉时，作为湖北省人口第二多的地级市，黄冈的疫情同样凶猛。
When the public focus on Wuhan, Huanggang as the second most populous city, Huanggang epidemic is equally ferocious.
正如黄冈市副市长陈少敏所说，因为对新冠肺炎认知不足、准备不足，医疗条件相对较差，后期治疗、检测能力相对滞后，黄冈的疫情一度非常严重。
As the vice mayor of Huanggang, Chen Shaomin, said, because of the lack of awareness of the new crown pneumonia, lack of preparation, relatively poor medical conditions, late treatment, detection capacity is relatively backward, Huanggang epidemic once very serious.
截至2月11日24时，黄冈市累计报告新冠肺炎病例2398例。
As of 2400 hours February 11, the city of Huanggang reported 2398 cases of new crown pneumonia.
作为直面新冠肺炎的一线医生，从1月15日起，林方见证了黄冈疫情发展的全过程。
As the front-line doctor facing the new crown pneumonia, Lin Fang has witnessed the development of the Huanggang epidemic since January 15.
新京报记者与她对话，听她讲述自己的亲身经历与观察。
The Beijing News reporter spoke with her and listened to her tell her own personal experience and observation.
不希望有病人来，又要微笑着迎接每一个人剥洋葱：你是从什么时候开始接触新冠肺炎的？林方：我本来是中西结合科的医生，1月15日被临时抽调到了呼吸二科。
Instead of expecting a sick person to come, greet everyone with a smile: When did you first come into contact with pneumonia? Lin Fang: I was originally a doctor in the Western and Chinese Department of Combination.
那之前的1月13日，医院突然成立了呼吸二科，派过去一个主任、三个医生，开始收治疑似病人。
Then, January 13, the hospital suddenly set up a respiratory two, sent a director, three doctors, began to treat suspected patients.
15日刚过去时，我被排到了下午的班。
Just after the 15th, I was assigned to the afternoon shift.
一下午，就收治了8名新冠肺炎疑似病人，实在忙不过来，只好把主任请来帮忙。
One afternoon, admitted 8 patients suspected of pneumonia, really busy, had to ask the director to help.
第二天我上夜班，类似情况的又来了10个。
The next day when I was on the night shift, another 10 had arrived.
这引起了医院的重视，院长都很关注这个事。
This has aroused the attention of the hospital, the dean is very concerned about this matter.
剥洋葱：病人不断增加，你和其他医护人员是什么样的工作状态？林方：最开始的时候比较辛苦，三班倒。
Onion peeling: How do you and other healthcare personnel work with the ever-increasing number of patients? Lin: It was hard work at the beginning, three shifts.
上夜班基本不能休息。
Night work is almost impossible.
而且夜班本来是头一天下午5点来，第二天早上8点走。
And the night shift was supposed to come at 5pm on the first day and leave at 8am the next.
但因为病人、家属很恐慌，总是有人咨询问题，所以好几次夜班都是第二天下午1点多才走的。
But because the patient, the family is very scared, always have someone to ask questions, so several night shift is the next day more than 1 pm.
1月17日凌晨，我真的是心力交瘁，就发了一条朋友圈，“无数次在这样凌晨时分已经筋疲力尽，心中默默地祈祷不要再来病人”。
January 17 in the early morning, I really tired out, issued a circle of friends, "countless times in the middle of the morning was exhausted, silent prayer in the heart not to come patients."
因为2019年12月时，因为甲流的关系，我们就一直在熬夜。
Because in December 2019, because of A-liu, we've been staying up all night.
好不容易甲流过去了，新冠肺炎又来了，我们确实不希望再有病人来了。
With the passage of A and the arrival of the new crown pneumonia, we really do not want to have another patient.
但我还是挺正能量的，后来又鼓励自己，要“微笑着迎接下一位再下一位，无需别人的赞赏或是评判，我们就是我们自己心中最可爱的人。
But I was still energetic, and then encouraged myself to "greet the next one with a smile, without appreciation or judgment. We were the loveliest people in our hearts."
”剥洋葱：最初的病人情况怎么样？有什么特点？林方：我记得第一名病人是一位59岁的女性。
What was the initial patient like? Lin Fang: I remember the first patient was a 59-year-old woman.
来我们医院前，她已经在外面治疗了十多天，不发烧也不怎么咳嗽，症状就是气短、呼吸困难。
Before coming to our hospital, she had been outside for more than 10 days without a fever or cough. The symptoms were shortness of breath and dyspnea.
但一做CT，就发现肺上呈云絮状。
On CT, however, the lungs were found to be cloudy.
后来的病人情况比较相似，大多是发烧几天不退、干咳。
Later the patient's condition is more similar, basically is feverish a few days do not return, dry cough.
一查血常规，就发现他们和普通的细菌感染不一样，细菌感染的话是白细胞高，这些人都是白细胞值、淋巴细胞值低，属于病毒性肺炎。
A blood test revealed that they were different from common bacterial infections, which are high in white blood cells, low lymphocyte values and viral pneumonia.
CT片子也和以前流感的不一样，双下肺是云絮状的，短期内发展很快。
CT film is also different from the previous flu, the lower lung is cloud-like, rapid development in the short term.
作为一名工作了20多年的医生，2003年的“非典”时期又上过一线，我感觉不太对。
As a doctor who has worked for more than 20 years, the SARS period in 2003 was on the line again.
剥洋葱：你当时意识到这是新冠肺炎了吗？林方：最初接到这些病例时，黄冈市疾控中心还没办法进行核酸检测（注：黄冈市副市长陈少敏曾对媒体表示，1月19日前，黄冈市无权做新冠肺炎检测；1月20日-22日，湖北省下放检测权，但黄冈没有新冠检测试剂；1月23日后才有试剂），所以这些病人都不能确诊，只能算是疑似。
Onion peeling: Did you realize that this was the new crown pneumonia? Lin: When the cases were first received, the CDC in Huanggang was unable to test for nucleic acids.
不过我们心里大概知道这些病例很可能是新冠肺炎，有传染性。
But we know in our hearts that these cases are likely to be new crown pneumonia, infectious.
后来我们听说，黄冈市的第一个病例是黄州区的一名司机，是给武汉的华南海鲜市场运送海鲜的。
Later we heard that the first case in Huanggang was that of a driver in Huangzhou, who was delivering seafood to the south China seafood market in Wuhan.
因为业务原因，这个司机在黄冈的黄州中心菜市场逗留过。
For business reasons, the driver stayed at the Huangzhou central market in Huanggang.
那是一个人流非常密集的市场，后来的许多患者都去过那个市场，包括我接诊的第一个病例——那位59岁的女性，她在中心菜市场附近陪读，天天去买菜。
It was a very crowded market, and a lot of patients have since gone to that market, including the first case I treated, the 59-year-old woman, who was reading near the central vegetable market and went shopping every day.
1月24日凌晨，龙王山老年公寓的隔离病房内，林方悄悄拍下了同事穿着防护服在椅子上休息的照片。
In the early morning hours of January 24, Lin quietly took photos of his colleagues resting in protective clothing on a chair in the isolation ward of the Longwangshan Apartment.
受访者供图剥洋葱：对你来说，今年春节和往年有哪些不一样？林方：其实腊月二十左右，黄冈过年的气氛还是很浓的，老人都拎着大包小包在路上走，去菜场买鱼买肉。
What's the difference between the Spring Festival and other yearsLin Fang: In fact, the atmosphere of the Spring Festival in Huanggang is still very strong around the 20th lunar month, and the old people are carrying bags of small bags on the road to buy fish and meat.
1月14日，我和儿子去菜市场买菜做丸子，菜场也没什么人戴口罩，因为说不会人传人嘛，大家也不怎么担心。
On January 14, my son and I went to the vegetable market to buy meatballs, and there were not many people wearing masks in the market because they said there would be no human-to-human transmission.
不过我那段时间一直很忙，每天和患者、家属打交道，嗓子都是哑的。
But I was busy all that time, dealing with patients and family every day, my voice was hoarse.
那时候防护物资很少，防护服也没有几套，大家都想着要节约。
At that time there were few protective materials and few suits, and everyone wanted to save money.
基本上每个人都是一早就穿上防护服，不喝水、不上厕所穿一天，有年纪大点的医生干脆带着尿不湿。
Almost everyone wears protective clothing early in the morning, doesn't drink water, doesn't go to the toilet for a day, and has older doctors who simply pee.
今年的除夕夜，我也是在医院里度过的。
On New Year's Eve this year, I also spent in the hospital.
除夕那天，好多医护人员是拿方便面当年夜饭的。
On New Year's Eve, many medical workers eat instant noodles.
我因为一直戴着口罩，有点恶心，就找了一个有窗户的房间，在窗边吃。
I felt sick from wearing a mask all the time, so I found a room with a window and ate it by the window.
那里有风吹进来，可以呼吸一下新鲜空气。
The wind is blowing in there to breathe the fresh air.
重回17年前的“非典”抗击现场剥洋葱：黄冈是什么时候公布新冠肺炎确诊患者、疑似患者定点隔离医院的？林方：1月23日，黄冈市政府发布了第一批三个发热门诊定点医院，包括黄冈市中心医院、市中医医院和我们医院。
Back to SARS 17 years ago, when did Huang Gang announce the designation of hospitals for patients diagnosed with pneumonia and suspected sufferers? Lin Fang: On January 23, the Huanggang Municipal Government issued the first batch of three designated hospitals for fever clinics, including Huanggang Central Hospital, City Chinese Medicine Hospital and our hospital.
当时大别山区域医疗中心还没建好，所以可疑病人的定点医疗救治机构就定在了市惠民医院、市传染病医院、黄州区龙王山老年公寓。
At that time, the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center had not been built, so the designated medical treatment institutions for suspicious patients were set up in Huimin Hospital, City Hospital of Infectious Diseases and Longwangshan Apartment of Huangzhou District.
我们医院门诊遇到的疑似病人就转到龙王山老年公寓治疗，那里的老人已经被提前转移走了。
Suspected patients at our hospital clinic have been transferred to Longwangshan Apartment for treatment, where the elderly have been moved ahead of schedule.
之所以选择龙王山，可能因为那里离市中心比较远、比较偏，过去是黄州区人民医院的旧址，也是2003年抗击“非典”的地方。
The reason why Longwang Mountain was chosen may be because it is far from the center of the city, which used to be the site of the People's Hospital in Huangzhou and the place to fight SARS in 2003.
剥洋葱：龙王山老年公寓的情况怎么样？林方：我和一些医护人员是1月22日搬到龙王山老年公寓隔离区的。
How are things with the old people in Longwangshan? Lin Fang: Some of my medical staff and I moved to the old people's apartment block in Longwangshan on January 22.
那里的装修有些年头了，墙面有些斑驳，有的病床护栏不能用了。
The decoration there some years ago, the wall is a bit mottled, some bed guardrail can not be used.
搬进去的前两天，院里好多人帮忙打扫卫生，光是灯管就换了好几箱。
The first two days after moving in, many people in the courtyard helped clean up the house.
老年公寓一共四层。
The old man's apartment has four floors.
一层是药房、划价大厅以及安保人员；四层是给医护人员住的；二层、三层收治病人，一共有90个床位。
On the first floor were dispensaries, row halls and security personnel; on the fourth floor, for medical staff; and on the second and third floors, for a total of 90 beds.
大别山区域医疗中心投入使用前，我们还在走廊上加了一些床位，都算上差不多有100个。
Before the opening of the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center, we added beds to the corridor, almost 100 in all.
剥洋葱：在隔离区期间，医护人员的情况怎么样？林方：在隔离区时，大家也很辛苦，但比之前好一些。
How were the paramedics doing in the area of separation? Lin: While in the quarantine zone, everyone was working hard, but a little better than before.
有时候可能一坐下就睡着了，吃着饭就睡着了。
Sometimes you may fall asleep as soon as you sit down and fall asleep while eating.
有一天凌晨5点多，我偷拍了换班的同事，她们都穿着隔离服，坐在椅子上睡着了，也看不清是谁，我就把她们称作“睡美人”。
One day at more than 5 a.m., I secretly filmed my shift colleagues, all in segregated clothing, sitting in chairs asleep, and I called them "Sleeping Beauty."
因为要想脱下隔离服睡觉，就要到清洁区，所以大家基本都是很累的时候坐在隔离区的椅子上就睡了。
Because to get out of the quarantine and go to the clean area, everyone is usually very tired sitting in a chair in the quarantine area and fall asleep.
如果附近的病人有什么情况，一下子就可以条件反射一样从椅子上蹦起来。
If a nearby patient has a problem, he can jump out of his chair like a reflex.
那几张椅子挺舒服，只是隔离服很薄，白天总是走动不觉得，晚上坐下睡着了就会觉得有点冷。
The chairs were comfortable, except for the thin quarantine suit, which was always moving about during the day, and it was a bit cold to sit down and fall asleep at night.
其实护士比医生更辛苦，因为隔离区不许家属陪床，病人都由护士照顾。
Nurses work harder than doctors because family members are not allowed to stay in the colony and patients are cared for by nurses.
有一个重症病人，刚换新床单就小便了，护士就又换了一张新床单，可是没一会儿病人又大便了，护士就要再清理、再换床单。
One serious patient peed just after changing the sheets, and the nurse changed a new sheet, but in a few minutes the patient had stools again and the nurse had to clean and change the sheets again.
这些护士都是二十几岁年轻小姑娘，一直还在坚持，都是尽心尽力的。
These nurses, all in their twenties, young girls, had been insistent and diligent.
1月24日凌晨，龙王山老年公寓的隔离病房内，林方悄悄拍下了同事穿着防护服在椅子上休息的照片。
In the early morning hours of January 24, Lin quietly took photos of his colleagues resting in protective clothing on a chair in the isolation ward of the Longwangshan Apartment.
受访者供图剥洋葱：湖北省卫健委的疫情通报显示，春节前后几天，黄冈市每日新增确诊病例都在几十人甚至上百人，100个床位够用吗？林方：其实还是挺紧张的。
In the days before and after the Spring Festival, dozens or even hundreds of new cases were diagnosed every day in Huanggang city, with enough beds for 100 bedsLin Fang: It's really quite stressful.
我记得1月24日来了一家三口，都是疑似，父母住进来了，儿子却没床位了。
I remember that January 24 came to a family of three, are suspected, parents came in, but the son did not have a bed.
为了让孩子也能住院，父亲就跟我们的医生、护士吵架，母亲就不停地给我们磕头。
My father fought with our doctors and nurses to get our kids in the hospital, and my mother kowtowed to us all the time.
医院也想帮帮他们，就在父母的床位中间给儿子加了个小床。
The hospital wanted to help them, too, and added a small bed in the middle of their parents' beds.
剥洋葱：疑似病人入院后会得到怎样的治疗？林方：最开始的用药，主要就是一些常规抗病毒药，再加一些连花清瘟胶囊一类的中成药。
Onion peeling: Suspected patients after admission to the hospital what treatment? Lin Fang: The first drugs, mainly some conventional antiviral drugs, plus some Lianhuaqing capsule and other proprietary Chinese medicine.
我们还用过一种针对艾滋病的药物，因为一些研究机构认为它对新冠病毒可能有效。
We also used an AIDS drug because some research groups think it might be effective against the new crown virus.
也有家属自己跑去买了免疫球蛋白，说没有特效药就增加免疫力。
There are also family members who run to buy immunoglobulins and say that without specific drugs immunity is increased.
总之那个时候真是飞机大炮都在用，只要病人耐受就可以。
In short, the aircraft and cannons were in use at that time, as long as the patient tolerated.
不过现在比初期好了很多，2月4日，《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》出来了，诊疗常规的细节多了很多。
But it's much better now than it was in the beginning. On February 4, the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 5) came out.
比如其中提到可以试用α-干扰素雾化吸入、洛匹那韦/利托那韦、利巴韦林静脉注射等，很详细。
For example, reference is made to the possibility of testing out-of-towed aerosol inhalation, Lopinavir / ritonavir, intravenous injection of ribavirin, etc.
现在基本可以按照上面的标准来。
Now you can basically follow the above criteria.
经历过“非典”的人，应该更淡定剥洋葱：龙王山老年公寓床位紧张的情况，是从什么时候开始缓解的？林方：1月23日，黄冈市疾控中心派人到黄州区人民医院为患者抽血、采集咽拭子样本，之后进行了核酸检测。
People who have experienced SARS should peel onions more calmly: When did the acute shortage of geriatric beds in Longwangshan begin to lighten? Lin: On January 23, the CDC sent personnel to the Huangzhou People's Hospital to collect blood and swabbing samples for patients, and then tested for nucleic acid.
1月25日返回结果，90多个人有50多个确诊，1月28日之后，确诊的病人就被转到了大别山区域医疗中心，这边的床位就不那么紧张了。
Upon return on 25 January, more than 50 cases were confirmed for more than 90 individuals and, after 28 January, patients were transferred to the regional medical centre in Dabie Mountain, where the beds are less strained.
剥洋葱：那些转到大别山区域医疗中心的确诊患者，后来又和你联系过吗？林方：有的。
Onion peeling: Those patients who were referred to Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center and then contacted you? Lin Fang: Yes.
一名转到大别山的患者说，过去支援的山东医疗队很好、很负责，给了他们很大的信心，他现在快出院了。
A patient who was transferred to Dabie Mountain said the Shandong medical team, which used to support him, was very good and responsible and gave them a lot of confidence.
因为之前有患者家属担心病人会受到歧视，我怕他也有这方面的担心，所以告诉他不要有什么心理压力，要好好锻炼身体，及时补钙，年轻力壮的都还好。
Because the family members of patients are afraid of discrimination, I am afraid that he also have this concern, so tell him not to have psychological pressure, to do good exercise, timely calcium supplements, young strong are okay.
剥洋葱：湖北省卫健委的消息显示，黄冈市新增确诊病例的高峰在2月1日、2日左右，分别达到276例、244例；2月8日后基本保持在百例左右，2月10日、11日降到了百例以下。
Onion peeling: The peak of newly confirmed cases in Huanggang was 276 cases on February 1 and 244 cases on February 2, the Huanggang health committee said.
但2月11日，黄冈市委书记刘雪荣表示已排查发现发热病人13000人。
But on Feb. 11, Liu Xueyong, the Huanggang Communist Party secretary, said he had cleared 13,000 people with fever.
所以最近黄冈的情况怎么样？林方：从整体情况来看，黄冈的新增病例还是有所回落的。
So what's the situation in Huanggang recently? Lin Fang: From the overall situation, the new cases in Huanggang has decreased.
已经确诊的病人也被陆续转到了大别山区域医疗中心，那里有从山东、湖南来的医疗队对我们进行支援。
Confirmed patients were also transferred to the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center, where medical teams from Shandong and Hunan provinces supported us.
排查发热病人的话，其实从1月就开始了，各社区挨家挨户打电话询问有没有人发热或者咳嗽，然后登记、随访确诊的、疑似的病人及其家属，我自己也接到过电话。
Checking out feverish patients actually started in January, with communities calling from house to house asking if anyone had a fever or cough, then registering, following up on confirmed, suspected patients and their families, and I got calls myself.
但打电话没法督促患者到医院治疗，还是有一些人会到药店买药，自己在家吃。
But a phone call can't get patients to a hospital, or some people will go to the drugstore to buy drugs and eat at home.
但从2月10日起，黄冈的药店不许卖发烧药、咳嗽药了，凡是有症状的必须到发热门诊排查。
However, from February 10, Huanggang pharmacies are not allowed to sell fever drugs, cough medicine, all symptoms must go to the fever clinic to check.
对疫情来说，这样的举措肯定有好处的。
Such a move would certainly be good for the epidemic.
众多志愿者帮忙改建黄冈市大别山区域医疗中心。
Volunteers helped renovate the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center in Huanggang.
刚下过雨，地面泥泞，志愿者将病床抬起来运进楼里。
Just after it rained and the ground was muddy, volunteers picked up the bed and carried it into the building.
图/新京报APP剥洋葱：你对黄冈未来的疫情怎么看？林方：这几天，我的几个病人已经出院了，我觉得病人肯定会变少，因为电视宣传、小区管理等越来越多、越来越严，没有聚集性的接触，传染的可能性肯定小多了。
How do you feel about the future of the disease in Huanggang? Lin Fang: Several of my patients have been discharged from the hospital these days.
我比较担心的是医护人员感染人数增加。
I'm more worried about the increase in the number of health care workers infected.
因为普通病房内其实有很大风险，因为一个恶心、呕吐、急性胃肠炎病人，说不定就是一个疑似病例或者阳性病人。
Because there is a real risk in the general ward, because a patient with nausea, vomiting, acute gastroenteritis may be a suspected case or a positive patient.
但防护服等资源都是优先支持隔离病房的，所以普通病房的医护人员不容易防范。
However, protective clothing and other resources are prioritized to support the isolation ward, so the general ward medical staff is not easy to prevent.
我身边也有一些医护人员感染，目前确诊的大概有四五个。
I also have a number of health care workers infected, the current diagnosis of about four or five.
好在医护人员感染的，发现的都还比较及时，肺部感染灶比较小，症状不太严重，所以大家看上去心态挺好。
Fortunately, the hospital staff infected, found more timely, lung infection focus is relatively small, symptoms are not serious, so everyone seems to be in good mood.
当然，也可能内心还是很紧张的。
Of course, there may be tension inside.
剥洋葱：17年前你经历过“非典”，现在又经历了新冠肺炎，感觉两次有什么不一样吗？林方：肯定不一样的。
Onion peeling: You experienced SARS 17 years ago, and now you have pneumonia in your new crown. Do you feel different twice? Lin Fang: It must be different.
2003年“非典”时，黄冈只有一例输入性病例，一发现就全科室隔离了。
In 2003, there was only one imported case of SARS in Huanggang, and the department was isolated on discovery.
那时候是所有人围着一个人转，普通民众都是在电视里看到的，大家其实没有学到太多大规模传染病的经验。
It was a time when people were all around one person. Ordinary people saw it on TV. They didn't really learn much about the pandemic.
这次的感染人数很多，大家对疫情都有了直接感受。
The number of people infected this time, we all have a direct feeling of the epidemic.
在隔离区，医生、护士之间互相照顾，谁的口罩、手套没戴好会相互提醒。
In the quarantine area, doctors and nurses look out for each other, reminding each other whose masks and gloves are not worn properly.
后勤保障的工作人员也很暖心，因为当时搬到龙王山很仓促，好多生活用品没到位，他们帮我们各种物资都保障到位了，包括护手霜、拖鞋这些小东西都有。
The logistics workers were also warm because they moved to Longwang Mountain in a hurry and didn't get many things in place. They helped us to put everything in place, including hand cream and slippers.
甚至我的邻居知道我去一线隔离区了，还给我们医院捐了1000个护目镜。
Even my neighbors know that I went to the frontline exclusion zone and donated 1000 goggles to our hospital.
大家都说城里的邻居不怎么打交道，各过各的，但这一次让我觉得很温暖。
It was said that the neighbours in town had little contact with each other, but this time it made me feel warm.
黄州区人民医院的医护人员在防护服背面贴上了“黄州区人民医院必胜！！！”受访者供图剥洋葱：经历了这次新冠肺炎，你想过疫情过后要做什么吗？林方：对我来说，健康是首位的，对医护人员来说健康是一种责任。
The medical staff of the People's Hospital in Huangzhou have posted on the back of the protective clothing the phrase "People's Hospital in Huangzhou District will win!!" The interviewee offered to peel onions.
其实作为最早一批进入一线的人，我坚持了半个月之后，心里也会忐忑不安，担心患者病情严重、治疗不佳，也害怕疲劳之下自己被感染，但最终还是决定打起精神。
In fact, as one of the first people to enter the line, I insisted on half a month later, the heart will also worry about the patient serious illness, treatment, and fear of fatigue under their infection, but finally decided to pick up the spirits.
毕竟我是经历过“非典”战役的人，应该比当年更从容淡定。
After all, I am a man who has experienced the battle of SARS and should be calmer than I was then.
疫情过后，我就想跟朋友们聚一下，因为我是一个喜欢热闹的人，希望可以找个地方大家面对面地吃一顿大餐，唱唱歌，尽情地喧闹。
After the outbreak, I wanted to hang out with my friends, because I was such a busy person that I wanted to find a place where we could have a big meal face to face, sing songs and make a big noise.
洋葱话题▼你所在的地方目前是什么情况？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读被治愈的二胎母亲：黄石首例确诊孕妇治疗9天出院隔离中的“钻石公主号”邮轮对话武昌方舱医院医生：不久后，将有很大一部分患者治愈出院既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell me why = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄冈医生讲述隔离区经历：穿防护服小憩，有动静就蹦起来。
Dr. Huanggang told about the isolation zone experience: wear protective clothing to rest, there is movement on the jump.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "黄冈医生讲述隔离区经历：穿防护服小憩，有动静就蹦起来";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Dr. Huang Gang about & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in protective clothing.
var msg_desc = "当众人将目光聚焦武汉时，作为湖北省人口第二多的地级市，黄冈的疫情同样凶猛。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Huanggang was just as violent as Huanggang, the second most populous city in the province, when its eyes were focused on Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '被治愈的二胎母亲：黄石首例确诊孕妇治疗9天出院',。
A cured second child: Yellowstone's first confirmed case of pregnant women with 9 days of hospital discharge.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '隔离中的“钻石公主号”邮轮',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '对话武昌方舱医院医生：不久后，将有很大一部分患者治愈出院',。
Dialogue Script 1 1 Doctor: Not long after, a large number of patients will have been cured and discharged from hospital.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
