特别报道 | 小哥不够用，物流配送复工不易。
Special report & # 124; Brother shortage, logistics distribution back to work is not easy.
邓舒夏 刘娉婷。
Ms. PING-TING DUNG Shuxia.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
《第一财经》YiMagazine告读者___因疫情持续，杂志在印刷和物流配送等环节受到很大影响，2月刊肯定已经无法按时出版。
First Finance Yi Magazine reports that the magazine has been greatly affected in printing and logistics distribution due to the continuing epidemic. The February issue is definitely not published on time.
《第一财经》YiMagazine编辑部因此决定将2020年2月刊、3月刊合并出版。
The editorial board of First Finance Yi Magazine has therefore decided to publish the February and March 2020 issues together.
合刊将包含一组“武汉新冠疫情”主题的重磅封面报道。
The joint issue will include a blockbuster cover story on the theme of Wuhan New Crown Epidemic.
同时，商业报道如研报、访谈以及专栏等常规栏目仍然保留，因此它会很厚——但定价不变，仍为48元。
Meanwhile, regular items such as research papers, interviews, and columns will remain, so it will be thick - but at the same price of $48.
合刊的出版时间为2020年3月5日，即国内大部分城市的订阅读者和零售点将在那之前（正常物流下）拿到杂志。
The joint issue will be published on 5 March 2020, by which time subscribers and retail outlets in most of the country's cities will have access to the magazine (under normal logistics).
届时，在杂志的微店、App和小程序，及第一财经App上，新刊也会上线售卖。
New issues will also be available for sale at the magazine's microstore, App and apps, as well as on First Finance App.
很抱歉由此给读者带来不便。
I'm sorry to inconvenience the readers.
各行业在非常时期都难免仓促，望大家理解。
All industries are inevitably rushed in times of crisis, I hope you understand.
疫情结束之后，我们在下半年亦有计划推出增刊和特定主题的单行本，回报一直以来支持我们的订户和读者。
Since the end of the epidemic, we also plan to launch supplements and issue booklets on specific topics in the second half of the year. The payback has been to support our subscribers and readers.
2020年农历春节以来，编辑部其实从未放假。
The editorial office has never had a holiday since the 2020 Lunar New Year.
自疫情升级，我们在微信和微博坚持每天推送关于疫情的报道，也欢迎关注。
Since the escalation of the epidemic, we have persisted in tweeting and tweeting daily reports of the epidemic, and welcome attention.
请继续阅读《小哥不够用，物流配送复工不易》国家邮政局官宣的复工可能更像是一个表态，落实到具体而微的配送环节上，小哥不够用仍是短期内无法解决的问题。
"Brother is not enough, logistics distribution is not easy to resume work" National Post Office official publicity may be more like a statement, to the specific and micro distribution links, the short-term problem is still not enough Brother.
记者 | 邓舒夏刘娉婷编辑 | 陈 锐物流运输和本地配送的时效性曾是中国最引以为豪的商业指标之一，但疫情之下，这套运转多年的成熟的物流体系正遭遇罕见的“用工荒”。
Ms. Ping-ting Tang Shuxia Liu, editor and local distribution, once one of China's proudest business indicators, is experiencing a rare 'shortage of labour' in a mature logistics system that has operated for years under the epidemic.
从2月1日开始，位于上海的生鲜供应链服务商九曳，为自己的物流合作伙伴引入了大量原先来自餐饮行业的新司机。
From Feb. 1, Shanghai-based fresh supply chain service provider Jiuyu introduced a large number of new drivers from the catering industry to its logistics partners.
正式上岗前，这些新司机需接受半小时“速成班”的培训，了解生鲜供应链大体的配送流程。
The new drivers will undergo a half-hour "crash course" to learn about the general delivery process along the fresh supply chain before they take up their duties.
一些更具体的操作细节问题，则只能在实际运输过程中遇到时通过直播或者看操作手册等方式解决。
Some of the more specific operational details can only be met in the actual transport process through live broadcast or read the operation manual and so on.
“这是特殊情况下的特事特办。
"This is a special case in point.
过去我们对于司机的培训流程是相对苛刻和复杂的，还要参加考核才能正式上岗。
In the past, our driver training process is relatively harsh and complex, but also to take part in the assessment before the formal onboarding.
”九曳供应链鲜运事业部总经理马玉君告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine。
Ma Yujun, general manager of the Fresh Transport Division of the Nine-Drawn Supply Chain, told First Finance Yi Magazine.
春节假期至今，受疫情影响，生鲜电商出现了全行业的单量爆发式增长，这给供应链带来了巨大的压力。
Spring Festival to date, affected by the epidemic, fresh electricity merchants have a single explosive growth industry-wide, which brings great pressure on the supply chain.
以往春节，九曳供应链的承运商留下1/10的司机作为运力就已足够，但今年，供应链节奏的调整和司机复工难两个问题叠加，即使已经招聘了近50名临时新司机，九曳的运力也只恢复到正常时期的40%左右。
In the past, carriers in the 9-troll supply chain left 1 / 10 of their drivers as capacity, but this year, the combination of supply-chain adjustments and the difficulty of getting drivers back to work combined to restore capacity to about 40% of normal levels, even though nearly 50 temporary new drivers have been recruited.
2月10日，国家邮政局发布消息称，中国邮政、顺丰速运、京东物流、苏宁物流及三通一达等13家寄递企业已自当日起全面恢复。
On February 10, the State Post Office announced that 13 postal enterprises, including China Post, Shunfeng Fasten, Jingdong Logistics, Suning Logistics and Three Direct Links, had resumed full operation on the same day.
不过，官宣的复工可能更像是一个表态，落实到具体而微的配送环节上，小哥不够用仍是短期内无法解决的问题，因为他们要么无法顺利回到大城市，要么回来之后还得按规定经历数日“隔离”。
However, the resumption of official announcements may be more like a statement that the shortage of younger brothers will not be solved in the short term as they will either not be able to return to the big cities or will have to undergo the required days of "isolation" upon their return.
顺丰速运是最早恢复的寄递企业之一。
Shun Fenghao shipping is one of the earliest resumed delivery enterprises.
生鲜和外卖：奖励拉新，共享员工九曳供应链的业务主要涉及生鲜产品的仓储、运输和配送。
Fresh and take-out: Reward pull Xin, share the staff nine troll supply chain business mainly involves the storage, transportation and distribution of fresh products.
按照原计划，九曳供应链在春节前已经统筹好客户的用车需求，每天的用车数也已经排好。
According to the original plan, the nine trolley supply chain before the Spring Festival has coordinated the customer's car demand, the daily number of cars has been arranged.
但疫情导致生鲜电商的单量暴涨，司机却无法临时返工，这给九曳供应链和生鲜电商的物流运输带来了极大挑战。
However, due to the outbreak of fresh electricity business, the driver can not rework temporarily, which brings great challenges to the logistics transportation of the nine-troll supply chain and the fresh electric enterprises.
根据九曳供应链提供给《第一财经》YiMagazine的数据，春节期间，九曳供应链的客户——如每日优鲜、京东、天猫等——需求量相比去年都上涨百倍之多，还有一些自身物流运输能力跟不上供给的新客户。
According to YiMagazine, the nine-troll supply chain, customers of the nine troll supply chain - such as Daily Premium, Jingdong and Tiantong - grew hundreds of times over the past year, according to YiMagazine, the nine-troll supply chain.
“有些客户在疫情期间做业务转型，例如先前平时每天补一车货，但前端业务模式的变化导致一天可能要补三车货。
"There are customers who are doing business transformation during an epidemic, such as replenishing a truckload a day previously, but changes in the front-end business model are likely to require three carts of cargo a day.
货量的突然增加是没有计划性的，有时候可能提前两小时突然要用车。
Sudden increases in volume are unplanned and may sometimes require the use of vehicles two hours in advance.
”马玉君说。
'said Ma.
人手不够成为最大的困难。
Lack of manpower became the biggest difficulty.
九曳供应链在武汉当地只有2名同事，主要负责捐赠物资的出库和入库，无法提供商业业务的支持，而北京和上海等地区只有40%的司机返工，整体产能也只是恢复到七成左右。
The nine-track supply chain, which has only two colleagues in Wuhan, is primarily responsible for the depot and warehousing of donated goods, unable to provide business support, while only 40 per cent of drivers in areas such as Beijing and Shanghai have returned to work and overall capacity has recovered to only about 70 per cent.
生鲜企业配送人员不足，单人配送任务繁重。
Fresh enterprise distribution personnel is insufficient, single person distribution task is heavy.
为了解决复工问题，九曳供应链除了使用增加收入30%至50%的方式激励司机，还主动联系一些先前做餐饮配送的司机。
In order to solve the problem of back-to-work, the nine-troll supply chain, in addition to providing incentives for drivers to increase their income by 30 to 50 per cent, reached out to a number of former catering drivers.
疫情期间，餐饮企业几乎停摆，一些司机因此陷入无交易状态，九曳号召他们临时加入生鲜行业，成为冷链输送司机。
During the epidemic, catering enterprises almost stopped, so that some drivers fell into non-trading state, nine calls for them to join the fresh industry temporarily, as a cold-chain delivery driver.
生鲜的冷链运输不仅涉及到城市干线，还包括离消费者最近的距离三公里的配送到家服务，这对生鲜电商企业的运力是一个挑战。
Fresh cold-chain transport not only involves urban trunk lines, but also includes a three-kilometer distribution home from the nearest consumer, which poses a challenge to the capacity of new electrical enterprises.
许多近日在盒马鲜生、叮咚买菜等平台下单的消费者，会发现配送的时间通常需要4小时以上。
Many consumers who place orders on a box of fresh, tinkling, and other platforms recently will find that the delivery time usually takes more than four hours.
叮咚买菜就此对《第一财经》YiMagazine书面回复称，春节期间，该公司包括配送小哥、前置仓分拣员工和包装员工等在内共保留了一线总员工数的75%。
Ding Dong told First Finance Yi Magazine in a written reply that the company retains 75% of its front-line staff during Spring Festival, including its younger brother, front-loading sorting staff and packaging staff.
1月22日，叮咚买菜就已意识到需求量会持续对供应和物流产生压力。
On January 22, Dong-dong shoppers realized that demand would continue to put pressure on supply and logistics.
因此鼓励放假的员工回来上班，并且鼓励员工介绍亲朋好友加入，每介绍成功一名，员工可以获得1200元至2000元的奖励。
Therefore, employees are encouraged to come back to work, and staff members are encouraged to introduce their friends and relatives to the work force.
除此之外，生鲜电商还纷纷“共享员工”。
In addition, the live electricity business has also "shared staff."
2月3日，盒马联合云海肴、西贝、探鱼、青年餐厅等餐饮品牌达成“共享员工”合作，截至2月10日，陆续有餐饮、酒店、影院等32家企业加入盒马，项目覆盖了超过1800余人。
On February 3, 32 enterprises, including catering companies, hotels and cinemas, joined the staff of the restaurant. As of February 10, 32 enterprises, including catering, hotels and cinemas, had joined the club, covering more than 1,800 people.
北京一家盒马鲜生门店，共享员工在仓内理货。
A box-horse store in Beijing shares staff's work in the warehouse.
叮咚买菜也寻求与餐厅、酒店等服务型企业合作，目前已经有400多名员工加入其一线工作岗位，据称整体计划招纳1500人左右。
Dong-dong also seeks to work with service-oriented companies such as restaurants and hotels, where more than 400 employees have joined its front-line jobs, reportedly recruiting around 1,500 people.
“目前店中有10位共享员工，后期陆续还会有。
"There are currently 10 shared employees in the store and there will be more later."
我们的内仓更需要人员，共享员工可以满足这方面的运营需求。
There is a greater need for personnel in our inner sanctuaries, and shared staff can meet the operational requirements in this regard.
”盒马鲜生（北京国贸世纪财富中心店）店长朱梅告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine。
Zhu Mei, head of box-horse store Xiansheng, a Beijing-based trade hub, told First Finance Yi Magazine.
来自云海肴的王紫轩便在这10人之列。
Wang Zixuan, from the sea of clouds, was among the 10.
此前他是云海肴的前厅主管。
Previously he was the head of the front hall in Yun Hai.
过年期间，王紫轩一直待在北京，大约两周前，他收到了公司推送的有关和盒马鲜生合作用工的邮件。
During the Lunar New Year, Wang Zixuan stayed in Beijing until about two weeks ago, when he received an email from the company about his collaboration with Mr. Ma.
“当时报名的就有200人左右，都是一直在北京没有回老家的人，后来筛选了年龄，要求18到45岁，通过率挺高的。
"At the time, there were about 200 applicants, all of whom had not been back home in Beijing, who were later screened for age and asked to be between 18 and 45, with a high pass rate.
”王紫轩说。
"said Wang Zixuan.
2月4日，王紫轩到达盒马鲜生的门店，经过2小时的业务培训后便开始了理货、盘点等工作。
February 4, Wang Zixuan arrived at the box horse fresh store, after two hours of business training began to tally, inventory and other work.
他没有透露具体的酬劳金额和每日用工时长。
He did not disclose the exact amount of remuneration and the number of hours worked per day.
而在配送方面，盒马鲜生正在尝试“更直接”的解决方案——与运力公司合作，用汽车统一送到社区再定点配送。
In terms of distribution, Boxer is experimenting with a "more direct" solution - working with transport companies to deliver cars to communities for onward distribution.
相比电瓶车，这样的单次配送量能高出2-3倍，且更能实现“无接触配送”。
Compared to electric vehicles, such a single delivery can be 2-3 times higher, and more able to achieve "non-contact distribution."
自2月8日起，上海大众出行、财新联合汽车租赁（北京）有限公司、壹玖壹玖酒类平台科技股份有限公司也宣布与盒马达成全国范围的用工合作，覆盖北京、广州、上海、成都等城市，目前试点区域以有停车条件的门店为主。
Since February 8, Shanghai Volkswagen Travel, Finance & amp; Finance United Car Rental Co., Ltd. and One Beauty Platform Technology Co. Ltd. have also announced nationwide cooperation with Boxer, covering cities such as Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and Chengdu.
同时，疫情对实体餐饮的打击也直接传导到外卖配送行业，饿了么和美团外卖甚至都拒绝了《第一财经》YiMagazine的官方采访。
At the same time, the outbreak of physical food attacks also directly to the delivery industry, hungry and American take-out even refused to "First Finance" Yi Magazine official interview.
“在我负责的100多个外卖商家中，只有2家还在营业。
"Of the more than 100 takeaway businesses I head, only two are still in business.
”一位北京的美团外卖经理对《第一财经》YiMagazine透露，他负责的片区不久前发现了新型肺炎确诊病例，大多数餐饮商铺都被禁止营业，而能开业的店铺也被告知不允许接待超过3人的就餐团体，否则会被视为“聚餐”。
Yi Magazine, a Beijing-based American take-out manager, told First Finance that his area had recently detected confirmed cases of new pneumonia, that most restaurants were closed and that stores that could open were told not to allow groups of more than three people to eat, otherwise it would be considered a "potluck."
除了成品外卖，不少餐饮也在探索更多的提振业绩的方式，比如云海肴正在开发基于社区和供应链的“上门卖菜”业务，以门店三公里范围内的小区为半径建立服务站，为居民提供采购食品原材料和半成品的服务。
In addition to finished take-out, many restaurants are exploring more ways to boost their performance. For example, sirens are developing community-based and supply chain-based "door-to-door vegetable-selling" businesses, with service stations set up within a three-kilometre radius of stores to provide residents with the services of purchasing food raw materials and semi-finished products.
另一名在北京饿了么跑单的配送人员表示，他准备这两天就回北京，为隔离后的复工做准备。
Another distribution worker, who was hungry in Beijing, said he plans to return to Beijing in the next two days to prepare for work in quarantine.
“我算幸运的，年前回了家，有的同事过年留在北京，年前一天的收入就能达到六七百，但这半个月没有多少单可接，拿不到多少奖励工资，也买不到口罩，现在他们都后悔了，还不如回家里过年舒服。
"I was lucky enough to be back home a few years ago. Some of my colleagues had stayed in Beijing for the New Year and made six or seven hundred a day before, but there were not many receipts for half a month, they didn't get much reward and they couldn't buy masks.
”快递小哥：单子和收入都少了，但更忙了疫情叠加春节的传统淡季，让货拉拉遭遇了订单的骤降。
Express Brother: Both the list and revenue are low, but the traditional low season, when the epidemic adds up to the Spring Festival, has led to a sharp drop in orders.
“毕竟大家不敢出门了，企业停工，交通也受到管制，我们的业务量在春节和疫情期间下降了93%，单量只有疫情前的7%。
After all, people are afraid to go out, businesses are out of business, traffic is regulated, and our business volume is down 93 percent during the Spring Festival and the epidemic, just 7 percent of what it was before the outbreak.
”货拉拉创始人兼CEO 周胜馥对《第一财经》YiMagazine说。
Zhou Shengfu, founder and CEO of Cargo Labrador, told First Finance Yi Magazine.
2月8日货拉拉推出“新冠肺炎司机保障计划”，司机只要在2月8日前3个月内曾经完成过1个订单即可申领。
Pneumonia driver's insurance plan, introduced Feb. 8, can be claimed by drivers who have placed an order within three months before Feb. 8.
如果不幸感染了新型冠状病毒而身故，其家庭可获得货拉拉司机关怀基金50万元的救助。
If the victim dies of a new coronavirus, the family will receive $500,000 from the Cargo Labrador Care Fund.
“我非常理解疫情下仍然在一线工作的司机的忧虑和他们家人的担心。
"I understand very well the concerns of drivers who are still working on the front lines and the concerns of their families.
对很多司机家庭来说，司机是顶梁柱，是一个家的支撑。
For many driver families, the driver is the pillar of the roof, is the support of a home.
”周胜馥说。
"said Zhou Shengfu.
中通、圆通等快递公司也设立了相似的疫情保障基金。
Chong Tong, Yuantong and other express delivery companies have set up similar epidemic protection funds.
根据国家邮政局2019年发布的快递员人群报告，76.31%的快递员来自农村，15.89%的快递员来自县城，来自城市的比例仅为7.8%。
According to the courier population report issued by the National Post Office in 2019, 76.31 per cent of couriers come from rural areas, 15.89 per cent from county capitals and 7.8 per cent from cities.
这样的从业者结构意味着，即便不少城市相继出台了疫情防控规定，要求小区不能随意限制快递、外卖等行业复工及送达服务，但快递员想要从老家顺利回来复工，仍然并非易事。
Such a practitioner structure means that even though a number of cities have introduced epidemic prevention and control regulations, requiring communities not to arbitrarily restrict express delivery, take-out and other industries from returning to work, it is still not easy for couriers to get back to work smoothly from home.
菜鸟网络和京东物流都拒绝接受有关快递复工问题的采访。
Both the rookie network and Jingdong logistics refuse to accept the interview on express delivery rework.
“我们组本来有5个人，现在只有我和另外一名同事到岗了，剩下的要么被困在村里出不来，要么在小区里隔离着，不让出来上班。
"There were five of us in our group, and now there's only one co-worker and me on the job, and the rest are either stuck in the village or isolated in the neighborhood and not allowed out to work.
”赵志雄告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine，他在快递行业工作了近20年，如今负责海淀某个片区内的中国邮政和中通的快递揽收工作。
Mr Zhao told First Finance Yi Magazine, who has worked in the express delivery industry for nearly 20 years and is now in charge of China Post and China Telecom's express collection in one of Haidian's regions.
相比其他“三通一达”的同行，赵志雄是幸运的。
Zhao Zhixiong is lucky compared with other "three direct links one da" counterparts.
他的人事关系在中国邮政，即便推迟复工也能拿到基本工资。
His personal relationship with China Post allows him to get a basic salary even if his job is delayed.
中国邮政对揽收人员规定的复工时间为2月3日，也就是正月初十，但为了早点为客户服务，他每年都会在初六左右从河北回京，今年也是如此——当时北京对于外地抵京人员的管控并不像现在这么严格。
China Post has set February 3, the 10th day of the first month, as the deadline for resumption of work. But to serve its customers early, he travels back to Beijing from Hebei around the sixth day of the year, and this year, too, when Beijing did not exercise as much control over foreign arrivals as it does now.
而中通的复工时间是2月10日，很多想要返京的同事此时已经回不来了。
And Tongtong's resumption of work is February 10, many would-be Beijing colleagues have been unable to return.
“现在邮政的快递人员缺口不大，毕竟是国企，过年期间也会有三分之一左右的人员在岗，我们这片区的复工人员现在能达到三分之二，大家老家都是周边省份的。
"There is not much shortage of express delivery personnel, after all, state-owned enterprises, during the New Year will be about a third of the staff, we can now restore workers in this area of two-thirds, we are all from the surrounding provinces.
但是中通在除夕前两天时就全员放假了，所以他们现在缺人比较厉害。
But Zhongtong in the first two days of New Year's Eve when the full holiday, so they are now more severe shortage of people.
”赵志雄说道。
"said Zhao.
据他了解，对于刚回京的工作人员，中国邮政要求回京员工在家至少隔离4天，中通要求的隔离时间更长。
For those who just returned to Beijing, he said, China Post requires its employees to stay at home for at least four days, with China Telecom requiring longer periods of isolation.
在各种兼职招聘App上，很容易找到近一周发布的快递员招聘信息，其中不少标注有“当天入职”，“包吃包住”等关键词，开出的月薪是在8000元至1.2万元之间。
On the various part-time job offers, it's easy to find job postings for couriers posted in the past week, many of them with keywords such as "On-boarding" and "Bag-in-a-bag" with a monthly salary ranging from 8,000 yuan to 12,000 yuan.
据赵志雄介绍，一般快递公司开给临时代派人员的提成是每单2至3元，相比正式员工的1至1.5元高出不少。
According to Zhao Zhixiong, the general delivery companies to the temporary personnel commission is 2 to 3 yuan, compared to the regular staff of 1 to 1.5 yuan is much higher.
“但我没有在站点看到任何新人，都是老员工。
"But I didn't see any new people at the site. They were old employees.
”即便顺利开工，赵志雄对自己近期的工作前景并不乐观——由于很多同事没有复工，他需要帮忙承担一部分相邻区域的揽收工作，且大多数小区禁止快递车辆进入，他只能在小区门口等待揽收，以前一天能揽收200多单，现在一天也就70至80单。
Even if things start smoothly, Zhao is not optimistic about his near-term prospects - he will need to help with some of the collection work in neighboring areas as many of his colleagues do not return to work, and most are off limits to express delivery vehicles, who have to wait at the gates to collect more than 200 orders a day, compared with 70 to 80 a day.
“其实需要揽收的单量也不多，我的很多客户都是淘宝卖教辅书的，本来年后是发快递的旺季，但现在开学延期，他们的生意也不好了，我揽收几天下来，收入至少比平时减少了一半吧。
In fact, many of my customers are Taobao sales auxiliary books, after this year is the peak season for express delivery, but now that the school is postponed, their business is not good, I collected a few days down, at least half of the revenue than usual.
”这几天赵志雄经手最多的快件是口罩、消毒液，手套、鞋套，其中不乏从国外转运进来的防疫物品，其次就是蔬菜等生鲜。
Zhao Zhixiong's top shipments these days are masks, disinfectants, gloves, shoe covers, some of which are being shipped from abroad, followed by fresh vegetables.
2月11日，中国邮政为浙江省学校运送教材。
On February 11, China Post delivered textbooks to schools in Zhejiang Province.
| 图片来源：中国邮政官方微博揽收上来的快件后续会经过分拨、分拣两层消毒环节，赵志雄每天也都能从中国邮政和中通那分别领到口罩、手套和84消毒液等工作用品，但他只拿其中一份，“一线的医生都不怕，我一个送快递的怕什么，该复工时就复工，注意好自己的防护就行。
Photo: China Post's official microphone collection of express mail is followed by an allocation and sorting process. Zhao Zhixiong receives daily work supplies such as masks, gloves, and disinfectant 84 from China Post and Zhongtong. But he only takes one.
”他说道。
'he said.
尽管收入令人焦虑，但赵志雄在疫情期间收获了不少公司自豪感：“武汉只有中国邮政和顺丰能发，顺丰能发3kg以下的小件，我们什么都能发。
Despite the worries about his income, Zhao Zhixiong gained a lot of pride from his company during the epidemic. "Wuhan has only China Post and Shun Fengfei, and we can send small pieces under 3kg in abundance.
”物流仓储：什么时候上班要等政府通知“每天都有客户在群里催我们开仓拿货，但仓库都被封条贴着呢，什么时候能开要等园区通知，园区则要等政府部门的审批。
"Every day customers rush through the crowd to get our goods, but the warehouses are sealed. When can we wait for the park to open and for the park to wait for government approval?
”李帝文告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine，他在上海德邦快递的“仓储与供应链”部门就职，主要负责对接购买德邦仓储服务的物流客户，但目前正被小区强制隔离观察中。
Li told First Finance Yi Magazine, who works in Shanghai's "warehousing and supply chain" division and is primarily responsible for docking logistics customers who buy German warehousing services, but is now under forced quarantine observation in the neighborhood.
“有的仓库经理连小区都进不去，只能在宾馆隔离。
"Some warehouse managers can't even get into small areas, they can only be isolated in hotels.
”他补充道。
'he added.
据李帝文了解，目前德邦上海总部已经开工，保障系统后勤的职能部门已经悉数复工，外地返沪的则需要居家隔离十四天，期间远程办公。
According to Li, the headquarters in Shanghai has been opened, the support system logistics function has been back to work, and the non-resident in Shanghai need to stay in isolation for 14 days during the telecommuting period.
“老家在湖北的同事需要等疫情结束后才能回来上班。
"My colleagues back in Hubei need to wait until the epidemic is over before returning to work.
”网传的一份《德邦快递总部园区防疫手册》中提到，员工进入园区需要测量体温和佩戴口罩，并且提倡自带餐盒在卡位上就餐，园区内禁止在便利店和餐厅用餐，晚餐则需自己回家解决——晚上六点以后园区要清场消毒。
Staff needed to take temperature and face masks to enter the park, and were encouraged to bring their own lunch boxes, no meals in convenience stores and restaurants, and dinner at home after 6pm, the website said.
在办公区内，员工之间要至少相隔2个卡位以上，使用会议室必须窗户全开，用完一次消毒一次。
In the office area, the staff should be at least two blocks apart, the use of conference rooms must be all the windows, a sterilization once.
为了防止大面积感染发生，整个园区的中央空调都将关闭。
To prevent widespread infection, central air conditioning will be shut down throughout the campus.
在被隔离之前，李帝文每天能去公司前台领到一枚口罩，被告知建议使用三天。
Before being quarantined, Li Ti-wen was able to go to the front desk to get a mask every day and was told to suggest three days.
后来被隔离在小区后，他主要靠打游戏来消磨在家的时间，偶尔去微信群里安抚一下客户的情绪。
After being isolated in his neighborhood, he spent most of his time at home playing games, occasionally tucking in to reassure customers.
“现在是非常时期，大家都在渡难关，我们收到订单了，如果德邦不能提供物流支持，那我们只能另选物流商了，现在订单是我们第一位的。
"We're in a very difficult situation, we're getting orders, if we can't provide logistics support, we'll have to choose a logistics provider," he said.
”一位客户在工作群中抱怨道。
One client complained in the work group.
李帝文自己的收入也与仓库操作量直接挂钩，这几天的“提成荒”自不必说。
Li Ti-wen's own income is also directly linked to the amount of warehouse operations, these days "royalty" need not be said.
对于顺丰和京东物流的顺利开工，他并不意外：“听同行说，京东这边的自营店铺有防护用具备货，而顺丰本来就有化工运输这种特种运输资质，本身就储备了很多防护物资。
He was not surprised by the smooth start-up of Shunfeng and Jingdong logistics: "According to his peers, the proprietary stores on the east side of Beijing have protective goods, while Shunfeng already has the special transport qualification of chemical transportation, and has a large stock of protective materials.
”2月10日，德邦通过微信公众号宣布了“快递”复工的消息，但李帝文所在部门预计的复工时间是17日前后。
On Feb. 10, De Pont announced the resumption of work on the Weixin Public, but Li's department estimated it would resume work around 17 days.
“很多同事还在家隔离，没法去现场操作系统，临时工也不好找，想正常运转起来挺难的。
"Many co-workers are still isolated at home, unable to access the on-site operating system, and casual workers are not easy to find.
”他说道。
'he said.
为了补齐配送缺口，“共享用工”的方式也同样被快递物流行业所采用。
In order to make up the distribution gap, the "sharing" mode has also been adopted by the express logistics industry.
2月9日，京东联合旗下配送平台“达达”宣布将以灵活用工的方式向社会提供3.5万个就业机会，其中京东物流向全国开放包括仓储员、分拣员、快递员、驾驶员等在内的超过2万个一线岗位。
On Feb. 9, Jing Dong's joint distribution platform, Dada, announced that it would provide 35,000 jobs in a flexible manner, with Jingdong Logistics opening up more than 20,000 front-line jobs to the nation, including warehouse workers, sorters, couriers and drivers.
目前参与进来的企业有永辉超市、步步高等。
At present, the enterprises involved in Yonghui supermarket, step high, etc.
至于这一连串的B端连锁反应何时才能结束，恐怕只有等待疫情过去之后了。
As for when this chain reaction will end, I am afraid we will have to wait until the epidemic is over.
（应采访对象要求，文中李帝文、赵志雄为化名）本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to the first finance and economics, and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 小哥不够用，物流配送复工不易。
Special report & # 124; Brother shortage, logistics distribution back to work is not easy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 小哥不够用，物流配送复工不易";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "国家邮政局官宣的复工可能更像是一个表态，落实到具体而微的配送环节上，小哥不够用仍是短期内无法解决的问题。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
