武汉被打医生：我从来没有让自己崩溃过。
Wuhan Hit Doctor: I never let myself break down.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
1月29日晚，武汉市四医院西院区的隔离病房内发生了一起严重的伤医事件。
On the night of January 29, a serious injury occurred in the isolation ward of the west courtyard of Wuhan Fourth Hospital.
据硚口警方通报，柯某的岳父（68岁）因病毒性肺炎于29日在医院去世，柯某情绪激动，抓扯并殴打医生头部和颈部，在场医生的口罩和防护服被扯坏。
Komou's father-in-law (68 years old) died of viral pneumonia on the 29th, according to a police report, Komou emotional, grabbed and beat the doctor in the head and neck, the doctor's mask and protective clothing were damaged.
目前，警方对柯某进行了刑事拘留。
At present, the police detained Komou on criminal charges.
柯某的殴打行为造成了在场一位心胸外科医生的严重职业暴露，当晚，这位高医生被送往隔离病房等待观察，多处软组织损伤，右侧跟腱存在断裂可能，已无法正常执业。
Kemou's assault resulted in a serious professional exposure of a cardiothoracic surgeon who was sent to the isolation ward for observation that night, with multiple soft tissue injuries and the possibility of rupturing the right Achilles tendon, making it impossible for him to practise his profession properly.
同时，也有一名护士长在推搡中受了伤。
At the same time, a head nurse was injured in a shoving.
这是武汉市是第一批公布的7家发热门诊定点医院之一。
This is Wuhan City is one of the first 7 out-patient hotspots to be announced.
《人物》记者电话联系了被殴打的高医生，他的伤处已经打上了石膏。
People called Dr. Gao, who had been beaten, and his wounds had been plaster cast.
采访过程中，他缄口不提自己的伤势，避开了所有有关当晚细节的追问。
During the interview, he kept silent about his injuries and avoided all questions about the details of the night.
他反复提醒《人物》记者，不要将这件事放大，他接受采访的唯一原因，是「希望能让公众知道政府其他方面的医疗支持，不要恐慌地冲到医院来，现在有很多网上的就诊渠道，我们都在努力，请他们不要恐慌，不要担心。
He repeatedly warned PEOPLE not to magnify the matter, and the only reason he was interviewed was "to let the public know about other aspects of the government's medical support and not rush to the hospital in panic.
」昨天，在由丁香园发表的高医生的自述中，他也表达了同样的想法，「现在是敏感时期，我不想打击医务人员的积极性，因为现在疫情很严重，临床一线医务人员很辛苦，我不想对他们造成负面影响。
Yesterday, in a self-report by Dr Gao, published by the Lilac Garden, he said the same thing: "This is a sensitive time and I don't want to discourage medical staff because of the severity of the epidemic and the hard work of clinical front-line staff.
如果您现在是关注我，就帮我们医院多募集些物资，因为我们还有两个病区没有开。
If you are concerned about me now, help our hospital collect more supplies, because we still have two sick areas open.
没有物资就不能开病区，病人就收治不进来（泣不成声）。
Without supplies, the sick could not be opened, and the sick could not be admitted.
」今天下午，他的朋友圈还在继续分享关于疫情的科普信息：「20个需要关注的有关防控的真相！求转发！」以下是《人物》与高医生的对话：文｜林秋铭编辑｜糖槭《人物》：目前的伤势怎么样？高医生：我还好，已经做过检查了，医院已经针对性处理了。
This afternoon, his circle of friends continued to share popular science information about the epidemic: "20 facts about prevention and control that need attention! Please forward!" The following is the dialogue between People and Dr. Gao: How's the injury so far? Dr. Gao: I'm OK, I've been examined and the hospital has targeted it.
不好意思，我希望这个方面你就不要关注了，我对所有找我的人都说，现在不要管我的伤怎么样，你们应该看看，现在医务人员都在干什么，一线人员都在临床一线，给我们到处找物资，如果再关注这个事情，真的一点意义都没有。
I'm sorry, I hope you don't pay any attention to this. I'm telling everyone who's looking for me, don't worry about my injury now. You should see what the paramedics are doing, the front-line staff are on the clinical front, looking for supplies everywhere.
我始终都不提这个事情本身，你可以去看看在这之前有多少医务人员挨打了，我只是那么多人中的一个而已，没有必要去过多地去关注这个事情。
I never mentioned the incident per se, you can see how many medical staff had been hit before that, I'm just one of those people, and there's no need to focus on it much.
这个放大只有害处，没有好处，我们的精力现在应该放在防疫上面去。
This amplification is only harmful, it is not good, our energy should now be put on vaccination.
高医生被抓伤的痕迹 图源网络《人物》：你所在的医院目前物资状况怎么样？高医生：很多物资他们都在往这里边送，但是临床上有个问题，我们开的病床越多，消耗也就越大。
| | | | | | | | | [dvnewspage] www.youtheme.cn [dvnewspage] www.youtheme.cn [dvnewspage] Dr. Gao: They're sending a lot of things here, but there's a clinical problem, the more beds we open, the more we burn.
这是一个不争事实。
This is an indisputable fact.
我们现在还在不断地接收病人，一直在开病区，要开到医院所有的楼层都开完。
We're still receiving patients, we've been opening sick areas, and we're going to drive all the floors to the hospital.
要有物资才能开，没有物资没有防护进去的话，所有医务人员又变成隔离者，有可能就增加病患人数，这个是毫无意义的。
There is no point in opening a hospital without supplies, or turning all medical staff into isolators and possibly increasing the number of patients.
医务人员首先要保证自己的安全。
Medical personnel must first ensure their own safety.
现在国家也在调拨，我们私底下也是通过各种渠道在募集物资，物资肯定是缺的。
Now the state is also in the allocation, we are also privately through various channels in the collection of materials, the material is certainly lacking.
后面收治的病人慢慢越来越多，每天消耗也会越来越多，很多人都想在医院住院，我们也在不停地征集床位，火神山和雷神山的医院建成了以后，后面应该会好一些，但是目前床位肯定比较紧张。
As more and more patients are admitted to the hospital and consume more and more each day, many people want to be hospitalized, we are also collecting beds, and the hospitals in Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain should be better in the future, but the beds are sure to be tight at the moment.
我们基本上只要开一个病区都会一下子收满。
Basically all we need to do is open a sick area and fill it up.
《人物》：你们怎么解决物资问题？高医生：我们不停地募集物资，这个时候我们医护人员的心情不是无奈，我们想得到更多的帮助。
People: How do you solve the material problem? Doctor Gao: We keep collecting materials. At this time, our medical staff is not helpless, we want more help.
不管是现在上了一线，还是没上一线的人员，都是这种状态，大家积极性都很高。
Whether now on the first line, or not on the first line of personnel, are this state, we are very positive.
我们医务处群里面，一说有物资需要去搬运，哗哗哗很多人说我有车，再开着私家车去搬，没有车的就出人力。
Our medical service group, said that there is material to be moved, many people said I have a car, then drive a private car to move, no car on the manpower.
我们规定的4个小时要换一套防护服，我们尽量是能做到这个时间。
We have four hours to change a suit, and we try to do that.
所以在进入病区之前，我们要先搞清楚我今天要做哪些事情，把这些事列个条条条框框出来，做完了以后才能出来，不能浪费一点时间，东西要用在刀刃上。
So before we get into the area, we need to figure out what I'm going to do today. Make a list of these things and you can't come out until you've done it. Don't waste any time.
紧急的时候，在防护服里穿纸尿裤的情况也是有可能出现的。
It is also possible to wear diapers in protective clothing in case of emergency.
比如我要进去了，我肯定先要做好准备，进去后尽量不会中途跑出来，因为每一套防护服，每一个防护装备都是很金贵的，不能浪费。
If I'm going in, I'm sure I'll be ready to go in and try not to get out halfway, because every suit, every piece of protective equipment is expensive and should not be wasted.
《人物》：早上大概几点来上班？晚上几点走？高医生：从我们开始接收病人，我就没回家了，在医院提供的地方去休息，累的时候一下就能睡着。
PEOPLE: What time do you come to work in the morning? What time do you leave in the eveningDr. Gao: I haven't been home since we began to receive patients.
如果我感觉累了，疲惫得很厉害，我就赶快去休息，等我休息好了，我赶快回来。
If I feel very tired and tired, I will go and have a rest. When I have a good rest, I will come back soon.
现在不允许按原来的生物钟去睡，也不分早晚了。
Now does not allow to go to sleep according to the original biological clock, also does not distinguish sooner or later.
医院划为定点以后，我是第一批医院通知我的，我立马就来了。
After the hospital was designated, I was informed by the first hospitals, and I came at once.
具体是什么时候接到的通知，我已经记不起了。
I can't remember exactly when I received the notice.
我记得我大年三十晚上还在值班，具体时间我记不得了，今天初几我都不知道，没有时间概念了。
I remember I was still on duty on New Year's Eve. I couldn't remember the exact time. I didn't know it at the beginning of the day.
奋战在一线的医护人员图源网络《人物》：你接触的这些病人精神状况怎么样？会怎么去平复他们的心情？高医生：我们碰到的人目前情绪都还比较稳定的。
People: How are the patients you're in contact with? How can you calm their moods? Dr. Gao: The people we meet are still in a fairly stable mood.
我们医务人员去关心他，去鼓励他。
We, the paramedics, care for him and encourage him.
病区里面，医生、护士基本24小时随时都会去看他们，一般来说，他们的情绪还是比较稳定的。
Doctors and nurses come to see them 24 hours a day in the sick area. Generally speaking, their mood is more stable.
我第一天接诊的时候，我听到他们很多人说，我住到医院来，我就安全了。
On my first day of treatment, I heard many of them say, 'I live in a hospital, and I'm safe.'
到了医院，他们可能就觉得我到了一个安全屋，因为能接触到医生和护士，他们的心情会完全不一样。
At the hospital, they might feel like I was in a safe house, and they would be in a completely different mood because they had access to doctors and nurses.
我们平时查房的时候，也会跟病人沟通，主要是关心他一些情况，然后去安抚他。
When we check in, we will also communicate with the patient, mainly concerned about his situation, and then to appease him.
如果防控病毒，现在最主要是提高自己的免疫力。
If the prevention and control of the virus, the most important thing is to improve their immunity.
我最喜欢说的一句话就是：「吃好喝好睡好，把心情放好，这是抗击病毒最大的法宝。
One of my favorite words is: "Eat, drink, sleep well, put your mood away, this is the greatest antivirus magic weapon."
」我喜欢跟病人这样说，我不知道这句话是不是还有漏洞，但是最起码我要鼓励他们，只要他们有信心。
"I like to say this to patients, I don't know if there is a loophole, but at least I want to encourage them, as long as they have confidence.
《人物》：来一线工作，你有犹豫过吗？高医生：没有。
People: Come to the front line, have you ever hesitated? Doctor Gao: No.
因为我爱人是另一家医院的护士，她跟我是一个战线的，比我更早接触这一类的病人。
Because my wife is another hospital nurse, she and I are on the same line, earlier than I came into contact with this kind of patients.
她们医院的培训在我们之前，所以培训一旦有新的东西，她就回来跟我讲。
Her hospital training is ahead of ours, so she'll come back and talk to me as soon as there's something new.
我蛮早就开始学习这些，国家指南，还有同济医院、协和医院的指南，我都很熟。
I started learning these early. I know the National Guide, the Tongji Hospital, the Concorde Hospital Guide.
所以去之前，我已经做好准备了。
So before I go, I'm ready.
不做好准备，你上战场不就是假的吗？上去无非就是增加一个患者。
If you're not prepared, isn't going to be a fake? Going up is just adding a patient.
《人物》：在就诊的时候，你担心过传染性吗？高医生：我之前没想过这个问题。
People: Did you worry about being contagious when you went to the doctor? Doctor Gao: I didn't think about that before.
当然，我现在因为处于隔离状态，我会考虑这个问题。
Of course, now that I'm in isolation, I'll think about it.
但是当时，我还真的没有认真去考虑这个事情。
But at the time, I really wasn't seriously thinking about it.
就像现在战争来了，当兵的义无反顾地上战场，这是你的职责。
It is your duty to be a soldier on the ground, just as the war is now coming.
现在疫情来了，我们是医生，这就是我们的战场，我们没有什么可犹豫的。
Now the outbreak is here, we are doctors, this is our battlefield, we have nothing to hesitate about.
这些都是应该的，你想那么多干什么呢？我每天都在想，如果我们能够把病人的身体状况调到最好，防治可能并发的一些感染，比如呼吸衰竭，肝功能不好。
What do you want so much to doI wonder every day if we can put our patients in the best possible condition and prevent possible co-infections such as respiratory failure and poor liver function.
我们如果能把这些状况扭转过来，也许等国家的那些针对性的药物出来了，疫情会得到极大的缓解。
If we can turn this around, maybe by the time the targeted drugs are out of the country, the epidemic will be greatly alleviated.
《人物》：会感到疲惫或者无力吗？高医生：累肯定都会累。
People: Do they feel tired or powerless? Doctor Gao: Tired is bound to be.
工作累了，我就睡，我从来没有让自己崩溃过。
Work tired, I sleep, I never let myself collapse.
我也没有听到我们病区有医生抱怨，大家多半都在想物资怎么办。
I didn't hear any complaints from the doctors in our area. Most of us were wondering what to do with the supplies.
其实大家心都是这样想的，我要弄物资，我要开更多的病区，我要帮助更多的人，尽量减少死亡率。
In fact, the hearts of all people think so, I want to make materials, I will open more sick areas, I will help more people, to minimize the death rate.
《人物》：你在心里有责怪过患者家属吗？高医生：没有，从来没有过。
People: Do you have any family members to blame in your heart? Dr. Gao: No, never.
他当时说要和我道歉，我跟他说我明白他现在的心情，因为我自己的父亲已经去世10多年了，我知道自己当时的心情，我也能够理解他。
He said he wanted to apologize, and I told him I knew how he felt now that my own father had been dead for more than 10 years, and I knew how I felt and understood him.
他其实挺后悔自己的举动的，至于具体的事情我不想过多地去提。
He really regretted his behavior, as to the specific things I do not want to mention too much.
我觉得这个事情真的是一个很小的事情，因为放在目前这个情况下，根本不值一提，特别是当我看到我们的同事，他们虽然在家里休息，还是义无反顾地去帮医院这边做事情，随叫随到。
I think it's really a small thing because in the present situation it doesn't matter at all, especially when I see our colleagues who, while resting at home, are doing things on the side of the hospital on call.
我们再去讨论我这一件小事情有意义吗？根本没有价值。
Will it make sense for us to discuss my little affair again? It's of no value at all.
如果说通过我这个事情，能够让医生和患者家属真正形成一个共同战线，我是很欣慰的，我也希望能达到这个效果。
If through me this thing, can let the doctor and the patient's family truly form a common front, I am glad, I also hope to achieve this result.
《人物》：如果在这样一个高压环境下，医患关系一定要有一个切口解决的话，两边应该怎么做？高医生：比如说我查了房以后，虽然家属们不能到病房，我电话跟他们沟通交流，有什么问题直接打我们电话，随时都有人接听。
Doctor Gao: After I checked my room, for example, although my family members could not get to the hospital room, I communicated with them by phone.
这是可以沟通的途径。
It's a way to communicate.
另一方面，其实患者和家属对这个疾病的认识，不像我们想象的那么多。
On the other hand, patients and family members do not know as much about the disease as we think.
临床一线的医务人员肯定会仔细去看那些指南，但是家属面对医学词汇，不一定看得懂。
Clinicians on the front line are sure to look closely at the guidelines, but the family may not be able to understand the medical vocabulary.
所以我希望很多媒体大家尽量用很通俗、很科普的方法，去让大家知道这个病是怎么回事，让大家能够去理解这个病是什么样子的，让我们和医生护士共同去为患者找到一个最好的治疗效果。
So I hope a lot of media people try to use very popular, very popular method, to let everyone know how the disease is, so that everyone can understand what the disease looks like, let us work with doctors and nurses to find the best treatment for patients.
如果让我来说就是两个字，理解。
If it's two words for me, understand.
医生要理解患者，病患的家属也要理解医务人员，我们之间要有信任。
Doctors need to understand the patient, the patient's family needs to understand the medical staff, we have to trust each other.
图源梨视频《人物》：这件事会磨损你从医的热情吗？高医生：不会，因为能够理解，怎么会磨损自己的热情呢？怎么会减轻自己的热情呢？不会的。
Tu Yuan pear video "People": This will wear away your enthusiasm from the doctor? Dr. Gao: No, because I can understand, how can I wear away my enthusiasm? No.
《人物》：你大概就从医多少年了？高医生：我2000年读的本科，08年读的研究生，到现在有十几年了。
People: How long have you been a doctor? Doctor Gao: I studied in 2000, and in 2008, I have been studying in graduate school for more than a decade now.
当时05、06年的时候，我在心血管专科工作，发现了一个比较特殊的病例，想进一步研究的时候，发现自己本科的知识不够用，我想继续学得更多，所以又回去读研了，慢慢地提高自己，也慢慢地走到了今天。
I was working in Cardiovascular College in 2005 and 2006, and I found a special case. When I wanted to further study, I found that I didn't have enough knowledge in this field.
《人物》：家人知道你受伤了吗？高医生：昨天我是被电话和微信吵醒的，我都没搞清楚什么情况，有很多朋友就问我怎么回事，情况怎么样。
People: Does your family know you're hurt? Dr. Gao: Yesterday, I was woken up by phone calls and microphone calls.
我说，什么事情怎么样？怎么别人都比我知道的多得多？快把我搞懵了。
I said, what's going on? Why do people know so much more than I do? I'm so stunned.
我没敢告诉我妈妈这件事，怕她担心。
I didn't dare to tell my mother about it for fear that she should worry.
她昨天晚上才知道这件事。
She only learned about it last night.
她和我视过频，妈妈自然是担心孩子的。
She and I looked too often, mother is naturally worried about the children.
我妈身体也不好，她是帕金森重症，在家照顾我的儿子。
My mom's not in good health either. She's Parkinson is in serious condition, taking care of my son at home.
我妈妈是我们坚强的后盾，她来照顾小孩的起居。
My mother is our strong backing, she took care of the children's living.
我小孩也5岁了，有很多事情，他自己也可以做。
My kid's 5 years old, and he can do a lot of things himself.
我安慰我妈，不用担心我，自己在家里好好的。
I comforted my mom. Don't worry about me. I'm fine at home.
《人物》：现在确诊了吗？高医生：我昨天已经取了咽拭子做检测。
PEOPLE: Is the diagnosis now? Doctor Gao: I took a swabb yesterday to have it tested.
还没确诊，还在隔离观察。
It's not confirmed. We're still in quarantine.
我现在也没有什么特别的变化，还在观察期间，自己很乐观。
I haven't changed much at the moment, and I'm optimistic while I'm watching.
虽然我是基层的医生，我站不了那么高，现在不能够在一线，但我尽量去帮大家。
Although I am the grass-roots doctor, I can not stand that high, now can not be in the front line, but I try to help everyone.
我们一定要相信医疗系统，相信医护人员。
We have to trust the medical system, trust the medical staff.
《人物》：从一线退下来后，你的心情怎么样？高医生：当天晚上，我突然走了，我对这个事情很焦急，我如果离开了那个岗位，我们的同事就会少一个人，他们就更辛苦。
How do you feel when you step back from the frontDoctor Gao: That night, I suddenly left, I was worried about this, and if I left that position, our colleagues would be alone and they would have worked harder.
每个岗位每个人都很重要。
Everyone in every position is important.
如果突然一个人倒下的话，这个岗位上面就需要人填补，没有人填补，一个人就要做两个人的事情。
If a person suddenly falls, the post needs to be filled above, no one to fill, a person to do two things.
我现在肯定是要隔离一段时间，不能在一线工作了。
I must be isolated for a while now. I can't work on the front line.
我还是很不愿从医院一线上退下来的。
I'm still reluctant to step back from the hospital.
跟病人接触以后，基本上很少人愿意退下来。
After contact with patients, few people are willing to step down.
很多急诊科的主任患病以后，他们都会哭，自己不愿意离开。
When many emergency department directors get sick, they cry and don't want to leave.
这些是我的前辈，是我的学长们，我都很感动。
These are my predecessors, my senior students, I am very moved.
《人物》：你不太想提前两天发生的那件事吗？高医生：那件事情有警察去处理，有国家法律。
PEOPLE: Wouldn't you like it to happen two days earlier? Doctor: It's a matter for the police.
现在医院也给我配备了很多防护药品，我现在在吃药，在做好每天的监护工作。
Now the hospital has also equipped me with a lot of protective drugs, I am now taking medicine, in the daily work of monitoring.
它不是百分百中招，也不是得了马上就不行了，我也不怕，及早治疗就好。
It is not 100% hit, not immediately can not, I am not afraid, early treatment is good.
我毕竟学了这么多知识，我自己还是了解的，我该吃的要吃，该做的检测去做。
After all, I have learned so much knowledge, I still know that I should eat, to do the test to do.
如果大家关注那件事情，会释放很多负能量，不适合现在说给大家听。
If we focus on that event, it will release a lot of negative energy, which is not suitable for everyone to listen to now.
一关注很多人就会跳出来很气愤，这样不好。
It's not good to pay attention to a lot of people and jump out in anger.
把他们的积极性和战斗力拉起来，这个才是最重要的。
Put their initiative and fighting ability together, and that's the most important thing.
我在群里面都是鼓舞我的同行，跟我同学说不要转发我的事，要转就从另外一个角度转。
I in the group are inspired by my peers, and told my classmate not to forward my things, to turn from another angle.
我们同学也很能理解我的想法，他们很多是学医的，一说大家都懂。
My classmates can understand my ideas very much. Many of them are studying medicine.
医生的誓言、我们的职责大家都很熟悉，面对疾病，医生、护士、患者、家属，我们本身就是一条战线上的人。
We are all familiar with the doctor's oath, our duty, and in the face of disease, doctors, nurses, patients, family members, we are all on the same front.
不管什么时候，我们都是一条战线上的，疾病才是我们最大的敌人。
At all times, we are all on the same front, and disease is our greatest enemy.
图源央视新闻文末注：1月29日，就在高医生被殴打的当晚，湖北省公安厅发布了《关于依法严厉打击涉医违法犯罪维护医疗秩序的通告》，第二条、第三条明确：新型冠状病毒携带者在公共场合向他人吐口水、患有或疑似患有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎拒绝接受检疫、强制隔离或治疗，过失造成传染病传播的，将被追究刑事责任；故意伤害医务人员，造成轻伤以上严重后果的，随意殴打医务人员，情节恶劣的，任意损毁公私财物，情节严重的，采取暴力或者其他方法公然侮辱、恐吓医务人员，情节严重（恶劣）的，依法追究刑事责任。
Article 2 and Article 3 state that whoever refuses to accept quarantine, compulsory isolation or treatment for pneumonia with new coronavirus infection in public places refuses to accept quarantine, compulsory isolation or treatment. Those who willfully injure medical personnel and suffer from or suspect new coronavirus infection willfully beat medical personnel.
。
.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉被打医生：我从来没有让自己崩溃过。
Wuhan Hit Doctor: I never let myself break down.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉被打医生：我从来没有让自己崩溃过";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "「不要管我的伤怎么样，一点意义都没有。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Whatever happened to my injury, it doesn't make any sense.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
