紧急求助通道里的夹缝求生。
The seam in the emergency aisle.
左异。
On the left.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
痛苦和绝望中，梁述滔坠楼自杀。
In pain and despair, Liang Suidao committed suicide in a building.
生命瞬止于 2020 年 2 月 10 日 14 时 57 分。
Life ceased at 1457 hours on 10 February 2020.
2 月 8 日 13 时至 15 时， 70 岁的梁述滔，曾独自哭嚎在铁门紧闭的社区服务中心，以求安排核酸检测。
Between 1300 and 1500 hours on February 8, 70-year-old Liang Shurao cried alone at the iron gate's tightly closed community service centre to arrange nucleic acid tests.
罹患尿毒症，又因 1 月 27 日起疑似新冠肺炎后无法确诊，必须每周一次的常规透析，亦难以为继。
Uremia, due to the suspected new crown pneumonia since January 27 can not be diagnosed, must be a weekly routine dialysis, is also difficult to continue.
但梁述滔接到的社区（武汉硚口区古田街道罗家墩）解决方案，一直是——等。
But Liang Shuidong received the community (Wuhan Zhangkou District Zhangjiao Street Luo Jiatun) solution, has been - and so on.
法医鉴定后，梁述滔的尸体，至近 22 时才被运离。
After forensic examination, Liang Shurao's body was removed only towards 22: 00 pm.
此前的 21 时 09 分及 21 时 32 分，原武汉市委书记马国强，则在防控新闻发布会上强调：截止 2 月 9 日，已完成全民健康排查人数比 99% ；到 11 日，实现所有疑似患者检测的「清零」。
Earlier, at 2109 and 2132 hours, Ma Guoqiang, the former secretary of Wuhan Municipal Committee, stressed at a press conference on control and prevention that as of February 9, 99 percent of people had completed the national health check-up, and by February 11, all suspected patients had been tested for "zero."
似为游离在官方数据外的「 1% 」，梁述滔之死引发的「重视」，不过是其同为疑似新冠肺炎病患的妻子，终于被武汉市普爱医院收治。
Mr Leung's death, which appears to be "1 per cent" outside the official figures, was treated at Purdue Hospital in Wuhan with the wife of a suspected New Crown Pneumonia patient.
面对诸如此类的悲剧不断，人民日报（《国家人文历史》）于 2 月 4 日开通直报中央指导组的紧急求助通道。
In the face of such tragedies, the People's Daily (National Human History) opened an emergency help channel to the Central Steering Group on 4 February.
相关对接帮扶，则同步运运作于微博平台。
Related docking assistance, then synchronous operation in the micro-blog platform.
梁述滔的情况，以其妻求助的方式，既被反复报送，但最终未能及时落地于社区协调。
Liang's situation, with his wife's way of seeking help, has been repeatedly reported, but ultimately did not fall in time to community coordination.
2 月 12 日，武汉市委机关报刊发评论：战「疫」不可压抑沉闷，更需「冲天豪气」。
Feb. 12, Wuhan Municipal People's Party organ newspaper published comments: "Plague" can not be suppressed dull, more need "soaring."
而在求助通道中夹缝求生的「幸运」与否，正尖锐而冰冷地印刻下，区别于此的另一面——残酷现实。
The "lucky" or "lucky" nature of sustenance in the help aisle is being sharply and coldly engraved, as opposed to the other side - the harsh reality.
一1 月 27 日，梁述滔在湖北省中山医院硚口院区透析时出现发热症状， CT 显示疑似新冠肺炎。
January 27, Liang Shuyu in Hubei Province Zhongshan Hospital Zhenkou District Zhenkou dialysis symptoms, CT showed a suspected new crown pneumonia.
由此，中山医院停止其 5 年来每周一次的「续命」透析。
As a result, Zhongshan Hospital stopped its weekly dialysis for five years.
2 月 2 日，梁述滔辗转至武汉市普爱医院透析，但最为紧急的是新冠肺炎的确诊。
On February 2, Liang shuttled to a dialysis clinic in Pu Ai Hospital in Wuhan, but the most urgent case was the diagnosis of New Crown Pneumonia.
否则，再无医院可满足其透析需求。
Otherwise, there is no hospital to meet their dialysis needs.
雪上加霜的是，此后，其 68 岁的妻子程小兰亦疑似感染新冠肺炎。
To add insult to injury, his 68-year-old wife, Cheng Xiaolan, is also suspected of contracting pneumonia.
家属被要求自我隔离且居住于不同小区，梁述滔夫妻只能不断与罗家墩社区沟通，催促联系核酸检测。
Family members were asked to isolate themselves and live in different communities, and Mr. and Mrs. Leung could only keep in touch with the Lo Ka Tun community to press for nucleic acid testing.
对重度尿毒症病患而言，透析切断意即「等死」。
For people with severe uremia, dialysis cutoff means "waiting to die."
虽情况危急，但罗家墩社区的回复，仅为「已上报，走流程」。
Although the situation is critical, the response from the Lo Ka Tun community is only "reported and followed the procedure."
梁述滔所在的广电·江湾新城居民，开始为其登记人民日报等紧急求助通道。
Mr Leung, whose resident radio station, Jiangwan New Town, began to register emergency help channels such as the People's Daily.
一直收集求助信息并转发呼吁的华东政法大学教授童之伟，知晓梁述滔情况后，即通过其微博（ID：童之伟）影响，进行舆论「施压」。
Tong Zhiwei, a professor at the East China University of Political Science and Law who has been collecting help messages and relaying appeals, knows about Liang Shuwei and then uses his micro blog (ID: Tong Wei) to exert "pressure" on public opinion.
确认到太多病患因无法及时救治，从疑似到病重，甚至死亡后，童之伟深知唯有「等待」的揪心。
Recognizing that too many patients can not be treated in time, from suspected to serious illness, or even death, Tong Zhiwei knows that only "waiting" the worry.
2 月 8 日，据最后一次透析已过 7 天的梁述滔，几无进食，虚弱不堪。
On February 8, Liang Shurao, who had been on dialysis for the last seven days, ate very little and was weak.
当他颤巍地借助轮椅，前往江湾新城内的罗家墩社区服务中心再度求援时，社区却闭门不见。
When he reached the Luo Ka Tun Community Service Centre in the new town of Jiangwan with a shaking wheelchair, the community was not seen behind closed doors.
2 月 8 日，梁述滔在铁门禁闭的社区门外哭嚎图片来源：受访者供图无助到极限下，梁述滔在社区门外哭嚎近两小时。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Liang Shu-howl outside the iron gate closed-door neighborhood on Feb. 8. Pictures of interviewees crying outside the confines of the community were overwhelming.
多有江湾新城住户对偶尔治愈表示，自始至终，未见相关工作人员接待或安抚。
Many residents of Jiangwan New Town on the occasional healing, from beginning to end, there was no staff reception or comfort.
自社区服务中心离去时，梁述滔已病重及悲愤至咳血。
Since the departure of the CSC, Mr Leung has been suffering from serious illness and coughing up blood.
2 月 9 日，「转机」突现。
On February 9, the "connecting flight" came to a head.
梁述滔家属接到罗家墩社区通知，古田街社区卫生服务中心可安排核酸检测。
Mr Leung's family was informed by the Lo Ka Tun Community Health Service Centre that nucleic acid testing could be arranged.
但当梁述滔赶到时，却被告知医生已离岗，推迟至 10 日早晨。
When Mr Leung arrived, however, he was told that the doctor had left his post until the morning of October 10.
次日，依约定时间，梁述滔夫妻提前来到古田街社区卫生服务中心。
The next day, according to the appointed time, Liang Shurao husband and wife early to Gutian Street Community Health Service Centre.
候诊许久后，对接医生突然告知，缺乏检测所需的咽拭子。
After waiting for a long time, docking doctor suddenly told, lack of the pharyngeal swab needed for the test.
针对家属询问，罗家墩社区的解释是，得继续留待。
In response to the family's enquiries, the Lo Ka Tun community explained that it would have to continue.
已大小便失禁的梁述滔无法再强撑。
Liang Shu-woo, already incontinent, can no longer force himself.
家属请求加急处理时，罗家墩社区则建议梁述滔夫妻先回家，等候通知。
When the family members requested urgent treatment, the Lo suggested that Mr and Mrs. Leung should go home first and wait for notification.
但再无消息。
No further information was forthcoming.
直至 14 时 57 分，梁述滔自 9 楼跳下。
Until 1457 hours, Liang Shuk-chuang jumped from the 9th floor.
目击居民对偶尔治愈叹息道，梁述滔已行走困难，但撑翻过阳台护栏却「太快」。
Eyewitnesses to the occasional cure sigh, Liang Shu has difficulty walking, but over the balcony fence "too soon."
似是耗尽最后气力，「走得毫不犹豫」。
It's like running out of energy and "walking without hesitation."
22 时，梁述滔家属再为程小兰入院问题与社区交涉。
At 22: 00, Liang Shurao's family intervened with the community for Cheng's admission.
质问工作人员内心有无愧疚时，反复而用力地捶打着自己的胸口。
Questioning the staff to feel guilt or not, repeatedly and forcefully hit his chest.
梁述滔自杀后，家属与社区人员交涉图片来源：受访者供图梁述滔的遭遇，引燃居民对社区不满情绪的爆发。
Photo sources of family members' representations to community members after Mr Leung's suicide: interviewees' accounts of what happened to Tu Liang triggered an outburst of discontent in the community.
江湾新城住户对偶尔治愈表示，疫情防控至今，社区均未对小区进行过任何排查。
Jiangwan New Town residents on the occasional cure, the disease prevention and control so far, the community has not carried out any screening of the small area.
每日公示数据，实来源于居民于附近医院自查后的反馈，除却重症和发热提示，无疑似统计。
Daily published data, in fact, from residents in the nearby hospital after self-examination feedback, in addition to severe illness and fever tips, no doubt like statistics.
此外，社区疏于管理下，一直未能安排小区内重症病患的入院。
In addition, the community has not been able to arrange for the hospitalization of serious patients in the small districts.
就志愿者自冒风险运送蔬菜进小区的行为，社区亦拒绝经办手续。
The community also refused to handle the transport of vegetables into the community at their own risk.
加之保安基本辞职，入室抢劫竟在疫情期间发生两起等，居民至今仍在与社区的不断交涉，甚至「对抗」中，紧张度日。
This, coupled with the resignation of security guards and the occurrence of two house robberies during the outbreak of the epidemic, continue to be the residents of the community and even "confrontation," tension days.
二相比于梁述滔，同属硚口区的李国栋夫妇，或为紧急救助通道中的「幸者」。
Compared with Liang Shuidong, Li Kwok-tung, who are also a martyr, or a "lucky man" in the emergency rescue channel.
但被收治过程，依旧焦灼而复杂。
But the admission process, still anxious and complex.
1 月 27 日及 24 日，李国栋及其妻任芳华分别出现高烧和低烧症状。
On January 27 and 24, Li Guodong and his wife Ren Fanghua developed high fever and low fever respectively.
2 月 4 日，李国栋被确诊为新冠肺炎，医院告知需社区（宝康苑）协调床位住院事宜；任芳华则 CT 显示双肺多发（磨玻璃样）感染，疑似新冠肺炎。
On February 4, Li Guodong was confirmed to have pneumonia and the hospital informed the community (Po Kang Court) to coordinate the hospitalization of his bed. Ren Fang Hua showed multiple (ground glass-like) lung infections, suspected to be New Crown Pneumonia.
李国栋确诊前，一直与宝康苑社区沟通住院安排，但几无进展。
Prior to his diagnosis, Li Kwok Tung had been communicating with the Po Kang Court community about the hospitalization arrangements, but little progress had been made.
2 月 5 日，李国栋的紧急求助信息经童之伟转发引起关注。
On February 5, Li Guodong's urgent help message was relayed by Tong Zhiwei to arouse concern.
2 月 6 日午时，社区通知李国栋夫妇前往武汉会展中心方舱医院。
February 6 noon, the community notified Mr. and Mrs. Li Guodong to Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Center Fang cabin hospital.
但被方舱医院告知未修建完善，只能再回家中自行隔离。
But was told by the cabin hospital did not build perfect, can only go home in isolation.
2 月 7 日 20 时，李国栋夫妇再被社区通知，赶去方舱医院。
At 2000 hours on February 7, Mr. and Mrs. Li Guodong were again notified by the community and rushed to the cabin hospital.
22 时到达，排队协调至次日凌晨1时。
Arrive at 2200 hours and line up until 1 a.m. the next day.
经方舱医院检查，任芳华可入住；但李国栋血氧饱和度已降至 77% ，属新冠肺炎重症，按规无法收治。
Ren Fanghua can be admitted after being checked by the Fang Cao Hospital. However, Li Guodong's blood oxygen saturation has been reduced to 77%.
因均感染，李国栋夫妇拒绝家人的陪护；而丈夫又发展为重症无人照料，所以任芳华决定，放弃入住方舱医院。
As they were both infected, Mr. and Mrs. Li refused to be accompanied by their families and Ren Fang-hua decided to give up the cabin hospital because he developed serious neglect.
针对李国栋夫妇的特殊情况，童之伟继续跟进。
Li Guodong's special situation, Tong Zhiwei continued to follow up.
关注及求助信息，不断汇集于李国栋父母家属处。
The attention and the help information, unceasingly collects in Li Guodong's parents family place.
8 日，基于舆情监测，宝康苑社区协调李国栋夫妇至武汉广发肿瘤医院，隔离留观。
8, based on public opinion monitoring, Baokangyuan community coordination Li Guodong to Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital, isolated for observation.
但由广发证券实控的民营广发肿瘤医院，自 2 月 5 日被临时征用，导致癌症病患被清退后，一度陷入混乱。
But the private Guangfa Cancer Hospital, controlled by Guangfa Securities, was temporarily requisitioned on February 5, leaving cancer patients in turmoil after being evacuated.
基本医疗条件均无法保障。
Basic medical care is not guaranteed.
临时征用的广发肿瘤医院，并无医疗条件图片来源：求助者微博李国栋夫妇面对的，是无医务人员和输液能力的险况。
2007-9-25 21: 48 The temporarily requisitioned Guangfa Cancer Hospital has no medical conditions Source: The callers, Weibo Li and Li Guodong, are faced with the danger of lack of medical personnel and infusion capacity.
和童之伟相同，亦在整理紧急求助信息的读物博主莫非（ID：我不是谦哥儿），因友人关系，可将核查情形，直报中央指导组。
Like Tong Zhiwei, Mo Fei (ID: I am not a humble friend), who also collates the urgent help information, can report the verification situation directly to the Central Steering Group.
11 日，偶尔治愈将李国栋夫妇求助信息反馈于莫非，再次上报。
On the 11th, the occasional cure sent Mr. and Mrs. Li to Murphy for help and reported it again.
12 日，李国栋夫妇终被妥善安置。
Mr. and Mrs. Li were finally properly settled on May 12.
李国栋由定点武汉亚心总院收治，任芳华则入住方舱医院。
Li Guodong from the fixed point Wuhan Axin General Hospital admission, Ren Fanghua is admitted to the cabin hospital.
此外，「拥挤」于紧急求助通道里的，不仅是新冠肺炎病患。
Moreover, it is not only patients suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown that are "crowded" in the emergency access roads.
居住于百步亭社区温馨苑的唐常安，于 2 月 4 日突发中风。
Dang Changan, who lives in Bai Buting Community Warm Garden, suffered a stroke on February 4.
头颅和肺部 CT 显示脑梗及感染。
CT scan of the skull and lungs shows cerebral infarction and infection.
但只有确诊新冠肺炎与否后，方能考虑收治可能。
But only after the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia or not, the possibility of admission can only be considered.
但百步亭社区却告知唐常安家属，每日上报检测名额仅有一名。
But Bumpting community has told Tang Changan's family that only one test place is reported every day.
经紧急求助渠道的登记督促，百步亭社区虽开始安排相关医院隔离，但脑跟治疗均因新冠肺炎检测反复受阻。
Prompted by the registration of emergency aid channels, the Bumpting community began to arrange isolation of the relevant hospitals, but brain and heel treatment were repeatedly blocked by the new crown pneumonia test.
于是，女婿陈堪便带着唐常安「住」进车里，每日四处寻求医院自救。
So his son-in-law, Chen Kan, took Tang Chang-an into the car and sought help from the hospital every day.
休息时，则停靠在公厕旁，为方便洗漱。
Rest, then parked next to the public toilet, for convenience gargle.
2 月 5 日至 11 日，陈堪与病重的岳父，奔波于协和医院5次，航运总院和汉口医院 3 次，省中医药 2 次，紫荆医院、东湖医院、武大人民医院、中部战区总院、弘济骨科医院各 1 次。
From 5 to 11 February, Chen Kan and his seriously ill father-in-law travelled five times to Concorde Hospital, three times to the Shipping General Hospital and Hankou Hospital, two times to save Chinese medicine, and one each to Bauhinia Hospital, East Lake Hospital, Wuda People's Hospital, Central War Area Hospital and Hongji Orthopaedic Hospital.
最终，陈堪为唐常安争取到两次核酸检测，均显示阴性。
In the end, Chen Kan won two nucleic acid tests for Tang Changan, both negative.
但无一家医院愿收治脑梗。
But no hospital was willing to treat cerebral infarction.
「错过黄金（救治）期后，只能再回家，通过药物保守治疗」，陈堪无奈道。
"After missing the gold (cure) period, can only go home again, through the drug conservative treatment," Chen Kan helplessly.
三童之伟和莫非均体察到，每一次紧急救助背后，都存在病患和社区矛盾的激化。
Three children Zhiwei and Murphy realized that behind every emergency relief, there is a patient and community contradictions intensified.
综合居民对社区问题的反映，则集中于排查不到位，救助不及时；沟通无效率，调解无诚意。
Comprehensive residents to community problems, the focus is not in place, assistance is not timely; communication is not efficient, mediation is not sincere.
2 月 11 日，环球时报发布报道称，经跟拍 2 月 9 日晚间，武昌区新冠肺炎重症病患的转移现场，发现「工作滞后、衔接无序、组织混乱」；且街道和社区工作人员无跟车服务，导致重症病患情绪失控，「做法十分恶劣」。
On Feb. 11, the Global Times reported that after filming the scene of serious cases of Newcastle Pneumonia in Wuchang District on the night of February 9, he found that "work lag, disorganization and disorganization" and the lack of follow-up service for street and community workers had caused serious patients to lose control of their emotions.
同日，武昌区政府领导前往同济医院中法新城院区重症监护病房，向新冠肺炎重症病患代表当面致歉。
On the same day, Wuchang District Government went to the intensive care unit of the French New Town Hospital in Tongji Hospital to offer personal apologies to the representatives of patients with severe pneumonia.
但偶尔治愈多方了解到，行政强令下，社区的表现，其实差异明显。
But occasionally cure many understand that under the administrative order, the performance of the community, in fact, the difference is obvious.
期间的无能为力，也在不断显现。
The impotence of the period is also unfolding.
尤其在涉及家庭式感染的严峻情况时。
Especially when it comes to the severity of family-type infections.
莫非曾收到来自汉阳区汇福园社区工作人员的求助。
Murphy has received help from community workers in Huifu Garden, Hanyang District.
求助信息显示：汇福园社区居民周明夫妇均显示肺片感染但未进行核酸检测；周明婆婆确诊新冠肺炎，弟弟则疑似感染，唯剩 19 岁的儿子安全，暂被隔离。
Helping information showed that both Zhou Ming and Zhou Ming residents showed pulmonary infection but did not have nucleic acid test; mother-in-law Zhou Ming confirmed pneumonia, while his brother-in-law was suspected of infection, leaving the 19-year-old son safe and in isolation.
针对此，汇福园社区工作人员表示，虽已加急上报，但「等待上级排号很慢」。
To this end, Huifuyuan community workers said that although the urgent report, but "waiting for the superior platoon very slow."
希望通过紧急求助通道，和微博舆论关注，尽快帮助周明一家进行检测和收治。
Hope through the emergency help channel, and Weibo public opinion concerns, as soon as possible to help the Zhou Ming family for testing and treatment.
舆情发酵后，汉阳区收到武汉市委网信办的告知函，要求依照防控指挥部要求，速报区委区政府主要领导核查周明家庭感染事件，并于 24 小时内回复办理结果。
Following the fermentation of public sentiment, the Hanyang District received a letter from Wuhan Municipal Committee of the Internet, requesting the district government to quickly report the case to the district government to verify Zhou Ming's family infection and reply the result within 24 hours.
紧急求助引发舆论关注后，相关部门的督办介入图片来源：求助者微博于是，周明一家方被加急安排核酸检测。
Emergency help after the attention of public opinion, the relevant departments of the supervision of the intervention picture source: Weibo so that the Zhou Ming family was expedited to arrange nucleic acid testing.
但遗憾的是，周明弟弟因不属于汇福园社区，未能及时检测治疗，最终去世。
But unfortunately, because Zhou Ming brother did not belong to Huifuyuan community, failed to timely detection and treatment, and finally died.
汇福园社区知情人士对偶尔治愈表示，除却 7 名在职人员，上级琴断口街道，仅委派 2 名年龄均 60 岁左右的领导协助工作。
People familiar with the situation in the Huifuyuan community said that apart from the 7 serving staff members, Chin Chuankou Street, only 2 leaders aged 60 or so were appointed to assist.
上报信息，挨户送菜；安抚病患，协调住院等全部重压，均被强制承担。
Reporting information, door-to-door delivery of food; pacify patients, coordinate hospitalization, all the stress, are forced to bear.
此外，针对紧急求助信息，一旦网络扩散或上报至中央指导组后，解决方式即下发督办文件。
In addition, once the network has spread or been reported to the central steering group, the solution is to issue a supervisory document.
但政策指令上，每个街道又只允许提供极少的加急名额。
But policy dictates that only a minimal number of emergency places are allowed on each street.
而街道领导，又只会每天端坐在空调房开会，喊口号。
Street leaders, and will only sit in the air-conditioned room every day for meetings, shouting slogans.
所以，每当悲剧发生，民众的怨怒都直接指向社区，社区只能「背锅」到底。
Therefore, whenever a tragedy occurs, people's anger is directed at the community, the community can only "back pot" the end.
本质而言，武汉自上而下均未构建起效率化的协调系统。
In essence, Wuhan has not built an efficient coordination system from top to bottom.
莫非分析道，至今仍近乎「文件式办公」的情况下，来自防控指挥部的精细指令，街道人员根本无法执行。
In a situation that is still close to "document office," Murphy said, street personnel simply cannot execute the elaborate instructions from the command and control command.
加之资源匮乏且布置混乱，相关主管部门和机构，来回推卸责任，「动不起来」。
Coupled with the lack of resources and the deployment of chaos, the relevant authorities and agencies, back and forth shirking responsibility, "can not move."
前述江湾新城居民，即对偶尔治愈表示，最初为梁述滔寻求帮助时，社区让找街道，街道告知转至区，区则要求联系市长热线；市长热线则答复安排区逐级处理，最后再回到社区时，社区只能答复再次上报。
The aforementioned residents of the Jiangwan New Town, who initially sought help for Liang Shurao, were asked to find streets, the streets were told to transfer to the district and the mayor's hotline was asked to contact the mayor's hotline. The mayor's hotline replied that the arrangements were handled step by step and that when the community finally returned to the community, the community could only respond to re-reporting.
2 月 13 日，中共中央决定，上海市长应勇调任湖北省委书记；济南市委书记王忠林，调任武汉市委书记。
On February 13, the CPC Central Committee decided that the mayor of Shanghai should be transferred to the post of secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee.
四人事调整或将引发防控变动。
Four personnel adjustment may cause the control change.
童之伟和莫非，亦在希望紧急求助的减少，甚至不再需要。
Tong Zhiwei and Murphy are also hoping for fewer, if not more, emergency help.
至今，紧急求助信息汇总于网络平台的数据及解决占比，尚难统计。
So far, the emergency help information summarized in the network platform data and the percentage of the solution, is difficult to statistics.
偶尔治愈自人民日报志愿者热线了解到， 2 月 4 日至今，人民日报全媒体平台受理紧急救助信息几万条。
Occasionally cured from the People's Daily volunteer hotline, February 4 to date, the People's Daily all-media platform to receive tens of thousands of emergency relief information.
其中，仅经联系人王般若（ 13126806707 ）对接的微信及信息渠道，收集上报紧急求助信息即达 4000 余例；协助解决主动反馈的病患检测、入院需求 1000 余例。
Among them, only by contact Wang Pangruo (13126806707) docking micro-letter and information channels, the report of more than 4000 emergency help information, to help solve the active feedback patient testing, hospital needs more than 1000.
此外，人民日报相关志愿者表示，希望武汉社区可主动与人民日报求助渠道对接，以及时上报紧急需求，共同提升工作效率。
In addition, the relevant volunteers of the People's Daily expressed the hope that Wuhan community can take the initiative to connect with the People's Daily help channels, so as to timely report urgent needs, jointly enhance work efficiency.
当然，不管是志愿者，抑或童之伟及莫非，都经历着太多处理求助信息的过程中，被告知病患已经离世的失落。
Of course, volunteers, as well as children and Murphy, have experienced too much of the process of processing information for help, being told that a patient has passed away.
而当被迫寻求紧急求助时，病患及家属，亦在承受着无法言说的压力。
When forced to seek emergency help, patients and their families are also under unspeakable pressure.
童之伟说道，很多时候，求助病患接到社区承诺，加急安排检测或入院前，会被要求告知曾转发其求助信息的博主，先删除微博，消除舆论影响。
In many cases, patients who seek help receive a commitment from the community that they will be asked to inform the blogger who has forwarded their help message before they are rushed to the hospital, he said.
而莫非在核实到相关求助信息，为医务人员发出后，则忧虑道，紧急求助的密集，关键原因之一，也是因为疫情战役中一线医务人员的「折损」，导致医疗资源及时跟进的艰难。
But after verifying the relevant help information, for the medical staff, worried that one of the key reasons for the intensive emergency assistance, but also because of the outbreak of the battle of frontline medical staff, leading to difficulties in timely follow-up of medical resources.
2 月 14 日，国家卫健委公布全国医务人员确诊病例 1716 例（ 6 人死亡）。
On 14 February, the National Board of Health announced 1,716 cases (6 deaths) confirmed by medical personnel nationwide.
与此同时，正如一处理求助信息的前线对接人士对偶尔治愈所言，疑似病例外，「危重非常多，超危重更多」——「所有人都在生扛」。
At the same time, just as a frontline docker handling help messages said about occasional cures and suspected cases, "there is a lot more at stake and much more at risk" - "everyone is carrying it."
（李国栋、任芳华、莫非、陈堪为化名）（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）撰文：左异责任编辑：李珊珊封面图来源：人民日报—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
(Li Guodong, Ren Fang Hua, Mo Fei, Chen Kan-wei's alias) (The People's Daily: Between Life and Death) Our new book, Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cure to disease, aging, and death - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death.
左异。
On the left.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
紧急求助通道里的夹缝求生。
The seam in the emergency aisle.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "紧急求助通道里的夹缝求生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the seam in the emergency aisle.
var msg_desc = "「武汉加油」中，另一面残酷现实。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
