一位护士被感染后。
A nurse was infected.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
郭琴（右）与同事。
Guo Qin (right) with colleagues.
受访者供图作者 杨杰编辑 从玉华新冠肺炎康复后，武汉大学中南医院的护士郭琴复工了。
The interviewee offered Yang Jie, the nurse of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, to resume work after he recovered from Yuhua Xinguan Pneumonia.
“看我站在那里，病人心安。
"See me standing there, sick man.
”郭琴在自己躺过的隔离病床前，护理新的病人，“我的出现，即使不说什么，也是鼓励。
"Guo, nursing a new patient in front of the isolation bed where he lay," My presence is encouraging, if not encouraging.
”短短十几天，她由一名急诊护士变成患者，再回归医护队伍。
In just a few days, she was transformed from an emergency nurse into a patient and back into the medical community.
再次穿起防护服时，郭琴的改变不可避免地发生了。
Again put on the protective clothing, Guo Qin changes inevitably took place.
6号病床很难确定病毒是从什么时刻找上郭琴的。
Bed 6 is hard to determine when the virus hit Guo.
1月12日下午，头疼，发冷。
January 12th afternoon, headache, chills.
她下了夜班，一量体温，37.8摄氏度。
She worked the night shift and took a temperature of 37.8 degrees Celsius.
“我们1月7日开始穿防护服，此前还没有排查‘不明原因的肺炎’。
"We started wearing protective clothing on January 7 and we had not cleared 'unidentified pneumonia' before.
”她可能在穿上防护服前被不知情的患者传染。
She may have been infected by unwitting patients before putting on protective clothing.
病毒也可能来自她穿上防护服后接触的6位确诊患者。
The virus may also have come from six confirmed patients she came in contact with after wearing protective clothing.
采血、吸痰，都是高风险的暴露工作。
Blood collection and sputum suction are high-risk exposures.
一位53岁的姓胡的患者，从菜市场回家后接连高烧，转入中南医院急诊中心。
A 53-year-old patient named Hu returned home from the Halles market with a high fever and was transferred to the Central South Hospital Emergency Centre.
郭琴把手伸进他的口腔，气管导管插进呼吸道，他的痰喷了出来，溅出粉色的泡沫。
Guo Qin put his hand into his mouth, trachea ducts into the respiratory tract, his sputum spattered out, spilling pink foam.
看到体温计的数字后，郭琴立马隔离家人，通知单位，大量喝水，“当时往好的方向想，是不是甲流。
Seeing the thermometer figures, Guo Qin immediately isolated the family, notify the unit, a large amount of water, "the direction of the good thinking, is not A flow.
”第二天，体温一度升到39.5摄氏度。
The next day, the temperature rose to 39.5 degrees Celsius.
她验了血、做咽拭子检测，一看到是阳性，心凉了半截。
She tested the blood and swabbed the pharynx, and when she saw it was positive, her heart cooled.
当双肺毛玻璃样的CT结果出来时，医生下达指令，必须住院。
When the results of a double-lung plexiglass-like CT come out, the doctor orders that the patient must be hospitalized.
6号病床在一个两人的房间里，10平方米，没有窗户，白炽灯昼夜亮着。
Bed 6 is in a two-person room, 10 square meters, with no windows and incandescent lights burning day and night.
她在这张病床上护理过无数病人，也抢救过危重患者。
She cared for countless patients in this hospital bed and saved the critically ill.
这回，她第一次以的病人视角扫视曾经工作的地方。
This time, for the first time, she scanned the place where she had worked from a patient's perspective.
“会联想到这张床上发生的不好的事情。
"Think of all the bad things that happen in this bed.
”她想到那位原本健康的胡姓患者，竟要靠机器维持生命，“如果到了需要仪器支持的地步，你的生命直接托付给医疗团队，你无能为力。
She thought of the otherwise healthy Hu sufferer, who had to rely on machines to keep her alive. "If you need instrument support and your life is entrusted directly to a medical team, there is nothing you can do."
”她想到自己最坏的结果，想到病人痛苦的呻吟、呼吸频率加快、指甲因为缺氧而变干，不能一口气说出一句完整的话。
She thought of her worst results, of the patient's painful moans, of faster breathing, of her nails drying up from lack of oxygen, and of not being able to utter a single, complete word.
她给儿子发了一条信息，“自己能做的要多承担一些，爸爸一个人很辛苦。
She sent a message to her son, "You can do more than you can do, Dad alone very hard.
”她心里内疚，陪伴孩子的时间太少了。
"She felt guilty about not spending enough time with her children.
夜晚在焦虑中度过，抢救仪器就在枕边，输液瓶滴滴答答到凌晨两点。
Night spent in anxiety, rescue equipment on the pillow, infusion bottles Tick Tock until 2 a.m.
原本与郭琴搭班的男徒弟，一个人在病房里穿行，监护仪报警声频繁响起。
The male apprentice who used to work with Guo Qin, a person in the ward, monitor alarm sounds frequently sounded.
从晚上10点接班到第二天上午8点，脚步声没有停下来，不是平稳的步伐，而是急促的小碎步。
From 10 p.m. onwards, until 8 a.m. the next morning, the footsteps did not stop, not at a steady pace, but in small, rapid steps.
同事忙完，走到郭琴跟前，观察她的呼吸和睡眠。
When her work was over, she went up to Guo Qin and observed her breathing and sleeping.
“曾经我也是这样无数次巡视病人，日日夜夜地坚持了15年，现在想想都不知道是怎么做到的。
"I used to do the same for so many times, day and night for 15 years, and now I don't know how I did it.
”“如果我没有症状，就可以帮同事一下，他就没有那么辛苦。
"" If I don't have symptoms, I can help colleagues; he doesn't have to work so hard.
”同事来护理她，她很不好意思，她不能走动，需要喝水时，也不想过多麻烦他们。
"Her co-workers came to nurse her, and she was embarrassed that she could not walk about and needed water and didn't want to bother them too much.
“我终于理解了有些病人不忍打扰护士的心理，宁可自己憋着，也不跟护士说。
"I finally understand that some patients don't want to bother a nurse, preferring to hold their breath rather than talk to the nurse.
”等她重返岗位时，添了主动询问病人需要的习惯。
When she returned to her job, she added the habit of asking questions about her patients' needs.
“病人最需要的是重视，人一生病就变脆弱，渴望别人多陪伴。
"What patients need most is attention. When they get sick, they become vulnerable and crave more company.
”郭琴说，“对轻症病人给予心理上的鼓励，重症病人有的神志不清楚，只能用一些音乐安抚。
"Psychological encouragement is given to patients with mild cases, some of whom are delirious and can only be soothed with some music," Guo said.
”住院的第二天，连轴转的护士长抽空给郭琴送来早餐，郭琴讲着前一夜的观察，两人忍不住抱住痛哭。
The day after the hospital stay, the rotating head nurse took time to bring Guo Qin breakfast. Guo Qin talked about the night before and they could not help crying.
“逃兵”郭琴是武汉大学中南医院第一个感染的医护人员，同事们都在紧张地盯着她的变化。
Guoqin, a "deserter," was the first infected medical worker at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital. Her colleagues watched nervously as she changed.
幸运的是，住院3天后，她的体温恢复正常。
Fortunately, after three days in the hospital, her temperature returned to normal.
她腾出床位，开始回到父母家居家隔离。
She vacated her bed and began to return to her parents' home.
父亲不大同意，每天问她，为什么待在家里？为什么不去医院打针？知道郭琴感染了，邻居开始减少与她家人接触，母亲气不过，总是跟人说：“我女儿没什么，你们为什么要远离她？”郭琴的先生与儿子在另一处隔离，儿子许久未见妈妈，只能看到手机屏幕上露出的一双眼睛。
Her father disagreed, and asked her every day why he was at home? Why not go to the hospital for an injection? Knowing that Guo was infected, neighbors began to reduce contact with her family.
以前孩子最喜欢问郭琴：“妈妈你今天上什么班？”她常年倒夜班，一旦在家，孩子总是特别开心。
Children used to like to ask Guo Qin: "What class do you work todayShe works night shifts all year round, and when she is at home, the children are always very happy.
“他其实想说妈妈今天不上班才好。
"He really wanted to say Mom wasn't going to work today.
”听到要去上班的答案，儿子默默走开。
"Hearing the answer to go to work, the son walked away silently.
郭琴在家里隔离，看工作群里同事格外忙碌，大家讨论今天又收治了几个病人、讨论物资输送，讨论寄贺卡的小朋友。
Guoqin isolation at home, to see the workgroup particularly busy colleagues, we discussed today a few patients, discuss the delivery of supplies, discuss the children to send cards.
不论几点都有人在群里说话，好像没人休息、没人睡觉。
No matter what time someone is talking in the group, no one seems to rest, no one sleeps.
1月27日，郭琴的血液检测结果、核酸检测结果和CT都显示正常。
On January 27, Guo's blood test results, nucleic acid test results and CT all showed signs of normality.
护士长意外地收到了郭琴的微信：“护士长，了解到病房现在重患越来越多，大家压力也大……护士长看能不能请示一下，问问专家们不发烧几天后可以（工作），要是没大碍，我就来上班。
The head nurse accidentally received a letter from Guo Qin. "The head nurse, aware that the wards are suffering from more and more serious diseases, is also under a lot of pressure... The head nurse asked the specialists if they had no fever in a few days.
”父亲得知后有些不高兴，不愿意跟她说话。
"When the father heard this, he was displeased and did not want to speak to her.
“好不容易没事了，还要再去，你在单位就是个员工，在家里父母就你一个孩子，儿子就你一个妈。
"After a hard time, but also to go, you are an employee at work, parents at home on one of your children, the son on your mother.
”家人劝阻她。
Her family discouraged her.
她说服了家人：“我是第一个被感染的医护人员，也有其他同事病了，哪个家庭没有孩子，我现在要是不回去，我不知道算不算逃兵。
She convinced her family, "I'm the first health care worker to be infected, there are other colleagues who are ill, which family has no children, and I don't know if I don't go back now," she said.
”　　欢迎归队返岗那天，同事们一起为郭琴喊了口号，“欢迎归队！”然后穿着隔离服，一一拥抱。
"On the day of his return, his colleagues shouted slogans for Guo Qin," Welcome back to the team! "and hugged each other in quarantine.
“疫情留下很多思考，关于你和家人、关于同事之间、关于你和整个社会的关系，以及如何面对病人。
"The epidemic leaves a lot to think about, about you and your family, about co-workers, about your relationship with society as a whole, and about how to deal with patients.
”郭琴说。
"said Guo.
郭琴又依次套上粉色贴身的手术衣、蓝色的隔离服、白色的防护服，戴上面屏与护目镜，套上两层手套和脚套。
Guo then donned a pink, close-fitting surgical suit, a blue suit, a white suit, a screen and goggles, and two layers of gloves and foot covers.
同事们在防护服外给彼此写名字，有的还写着“彭于晏”。
Colleagues wrote names for each other outside their protective clothing. Some of them said, Peng Yu Yan.
6号床又收进了新病人。
Bed 6 has new patients in.
得知郭琴是康复的新冠肺炎患者，病人们对她更信赖，围着她问“胸闷到底是什么导致的”“我今天喝的水够不够”。
Hearing that Guo was recovering from pneumonia, patients placed more trust in her and asked her, "What caused the chest tightness?" "I didn't drink enough water today."
病人们愿意看到她，仿佛她站在那里，就意味着一种治愈的希望。
Patients want to see her, as if standing there means a hope of healing.
一个感染的护士拿到确诊结果时，哭了。
An infected nurse cried when she got the diagnosis.
她向郭琴求助，“我该怎么办”。
She asked Guo for help, "What should I do?"
郭琴安慰她：“你看我不好好的嘛。
Guo Qin comforted her: "You see I am not good.
”医院里有了变化，走廊上贴着市民寄来的卡片，一个小学生用零花钱给他们买来午餐。
There was a change in the hospital, and on the porch were cards from citizens, and a pupil bought them lunch with pocket money.
还有人送鲜花、蛋糕、水果、煲仔饭。
Others give flowers, cakes, fruits and souvenirs.
郭琴上班的第一天，交通停摆，警察敬了礼，送她到医院。
On her first day at work, the traffic stopped and the police saluted her to the hospital.
同样充当护送者的，还有外卖小哥。
Also acting as escort, there's the take-out guy.
郭琴说自己爱感动，以前在急诊常遇到各种突发状况，一个两三岁的宝宝被货车撞伤，家人一分钱都掏不出来。
Guo said he loves to be moved, and used to encounter emergencies, a two-to-three-year-old baby was injured by a truck, the family can not afford to pay a single penny.
病床那么大，他只有小小的一点，睁着眼睛，不哭不闹。
The bed was so large that he was only a little bit small, with his eyes open, and did not cry.
她和几位同事看不下去，凑钱给孩子治疗。
She and some of her colleagues couldn't bear to put up the money for the child's treatment.
她现在每天都会流泪，看到武汉封城的消息，哭了；一个志愿者护送了50多位病人，哭了；雷神山的工人连夜建医院，她也哭了，“工人很朴素，说想为国家做点事情，以后好跟孩子吹牛”。
Every day she would shed tears, see the news of Wuhan sealing the city, cry; a volunteer escorted more than 50 patients, crying; the workers of Raytheon Mountain built the hospital overnight, and she cried, "The workers are simple and want to do something for the country so that they can talk to their children later."
如今，一天下来，她的防护服干了又湿，湿了又干，护目镜一片模糊。
Now, at the end of the day, her suit was dry and wet, wet and dry, and her goggles were vague.
一个40多岁的女病人，刚刚失去了父母，呼吸很差。
A woman in her 40s had just lost her parents and was breathing badly.
她向郭琴倾诉，觉得自己的一生就要结束了。
She confided in Guo Qin and felt that her life was coming to an end.
郭琴护理她、安慰她、陪伴她。
Guo Qin nurtures her, comforts her and accompanies her.
经过治疗，她能下床走路了，还能跟家人视频。
After treatment, she was able to walk out of bed and video with her family.
儿子渐渐习惯隔着屏幕看到戴口罩的母亲，他把母亲写进作文里，那是“永远在说减肥，永远没有瘦下来的妈妈”。
As he grew used to seeing his mother wearing a mask across the screen, he wrote her down in his composition, "Always talking about losing weight, never losing weight".
武汉的街头呈现从未有过的安静，让人怀念起堵车的日子。
Wuhan's streets have never been quiet, let people remember the days of traffic jam.
医院人少了，受疫情影响，医护之间减少走动，在餐厅里也要分开进食。
Hospitals are small, affected by the epidemic, there is less movement between doctors and nurses and separate meals in restaurants.
“等疫情过去，我最想做的是拥抱孩子，和朋友聚餐，跟同事拌嘴。
"When the epidemic is over, all I want to do is hug my children, have dinner with my friends and quarrel with my colleagues.
”郭琴说。
"said Guo.
那位吐出粉色泡沫痰的胡姓患者经过体外膜肺氧合（ECMO）治疗，重获健康。
The patient with the pink foamy sputum was treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and regained health.
他出院那天，正是郭琴返岗的日子。
The day he was discharged from hospital, it was Guo's return day.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位护士被感染后。
A nurse was infected.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一位护士被感染后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; when a nurse was infected;;
var msg_desc = "“等疫情过去，我最想做的是拥抱孩子，和朋友聚餐，跟同事拌嘴。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "When the epidemic passed, all I wanted to do was hug my children, have dinner with friends, and quarrel with a colleague.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
