谁夺走了你的微信运动榜冠军。
Who stole your tweets from the top.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
受访者供图实习生 徐竞然“如果让我也去一线，你说我去吗？” 大年三十，看着讲述抗击新冠肺炎疫情的春晚节目，杨璐（化名）问女儿。
Interviewee Xu Jingran "if let me go to the line, do you say I go?" New Year's Eve, looking at the story of the fight against the New Year pneumonia program, Yang Lu (alias) asked her daughter.
“不去，你又不是医生、记者，去有什么用？” 女儿说。
"No, you're not a doctor or a reporter. What's the point of going?" said the daughter.
这里是天津，距离武汉一千多公里。
This is Tianjin, more than one thousand kilometers from Wuhan.
杨璐是一名社区工作者，提起这个职业，人们的理解通常是“居委会的”。
Yang Lu is a community worker, mentioned this profession, people's understanding is usually "neighborhood committee."
11小时后，加班开始了。
Eleven hours later, the overtime began.
杨璐的微信工作群“炸了”。
Yang Lu's micro-letter work group "bombed."
上级部门在群里发了一份武汉返津人员名单，指示逐一排查。
Superior departments in the group issued a list of Wuhan people back to Tianjin, instructions to check one by one.
“上级”指街道，国家、省市、区县、街道……社区是网络的末梢。
"Higher level" refers to the street, national, provincial and municipal, district, street... community is the end of the network.
新闻里常提到的“逐人落实”和“逐户落实”，最后都要落实到社区。
Often referred to in the news "person by person" and "door-to-door implementation," and finally to the community.
放下正在擀的饺子皮，杨璐挑出名单内自己辖区的居民，挨个打了遍电话，得知目前还没有咳嗽发烧的才踏实下来。
Put down the dumpling skin is rolling, Yang Lu picked out the list of their own area residents, one after another made phone calls, know that there is no cough and fever before the down down.
她不仅要掌握这些“重点保护对象的户籍地、现住址、现联系方式、近期行动轨迹，还要逐人建档，一天两次地询问身体情况、记录体温并督促“自我隔离”14天。
Not only does she need to keep track of where people live, where they live, how they are contacted, how they are doing in the near future, but also file them individually, asking questions twice a day about their health, taking their temperature, and urging them to "insulate themselves" for 14 days.
初一，杨璐和同事正式上班。
Junior 1, Yang Lu and her colleagues officially work.
公交车上加司机一共4个人，马路空得“一眼从这头望见那头”。
There were four drivers on the bus, and the road was empty "from one end to the other."
等杨璐想到要拍个小视频时，车都到站了。
When Yang Lu thought of making a short video, the bus arrived.
她工作的社区同样安静。
The community in which she works is equally quiet.
往年春节，几个小卖部门口总是成箱地摞着礼盒，喇叭里循环着“六个核桃”广告歌，但今年没一家营业。
During the Spring Festival, boxes of gift boxes were stacked at the door and six walnut songs were played on the loudspeakers, but none of them were open this year.
辖区内近两百个楼门，杨璐和同事挨个贴了宣传单，除了“戴口罩少聚集勤洗手”，还提示“武汉返津人员到居委会报到”。
Almost two hundred buildings in the area, Yang Lu and her colleagues put up a leaflet, in addition to "wearing masks less frequent hand-washing," also prompted "Wuhan back to Jin personnel to report to the neighborhood committee."
初二，杨璐和同事又挨个楼门转了一圈，用马克笔把“武汉返津人员到居委会报到”涂掉。
Junior 2, Yang Lu and her colleagues turn around one by one, with a marker pen "Wuhan back to Jin people to report to the neighborhood" smear.
补上“给居委会致电”。
Fill in the "Call the neighborhood committee."
“尽量不让大家出门”，杨璐觉得“病毒在变化，自己的工作也得变化”。
"Try not to let everyone out," Yang Lu felt "the virus is changing, their own work has to change."
工作“全面铺开”了。
The work is "all out."
先是挨家挨户打电话，询问有无武汉返乡史、武汉人员接触史、发热史，叮嘱防疫事项。
First, door-to-door calls, asking whether Wuhan has a history of returning home, Wuhan contact history, fever history, ordered epidemic prevention matters.
杨璐和同事10个人，分摊辖区内的3000多户居民。
Lu and her colleagues 10 people, share the jurisdiction of more than 3,000 households.
听见老人接电话，杨璐和同事们还要提醒“别轻易给人身份证号和银行卡号，小心诈骗”。
Hearing the elderly answer the phone, Yang Lu and her colleagues also reminded "do not easily give people identity numbers and bank card numbers, be careful of fraud."
全部打完要10个小时，“耳朵嗡嗡的”。
It all took ten hours to finish, "ears buzzing."
年轻人把感谢和拜年话挂在嘴边，中年人经常极不耐烦。
Young people to thank and pay tribute to the New Year talk, middle-aged people are often extremely impatient.
总体上，杨璐觉得大家比平时更配合了，尤其是租户。
In general, Yang Lu feels more cooperative than usual, especially the tenants.
不像之前，一问房间住了几个人，对方就很躲闪，甚至会直接挂掉电话。
Unlike before, when asked how many people live in a room, the other person dodges and even hangs up the phone.
初二晚上，杨璐又接到上级通知，从初三开始，挨家挨户上门。
On the evening of the second day of junior high school, Yang Lu received notification from her superiors.
发现异常联系居委会，居委会帮忙叫120。
Find abnormal contact neighborhood committee, neighborhood help to call 120.
“这时候你们一户户上门？” 家里有个1岁多的孩子，社区工作者小红的丈夫放出话来，“让你去，你就马上辞职。
"At this point you door-to-door?" The family has a more than a year old child, community worker Xiao Hong's husband sent out a message, "let you go, you immediately resign.
”小红理解丈夫，“但姐妹们都在岗，必须和她们一起战斗”。
"Xiao Hong understood her husband." But the sisters are on guard and must fight with them.
2“等疫情结束，孩子长大，你可以告诉他，当初妈妈在一线。
"When the epidemic is over and the child grows up, you can tell him that his mother was on the line.
”杨璐说。
'said Yang Lu.
“一线”这个词，杨璐只在给自己人打气时说说，“不好意思和别人说，怕别人觉得居委会还好意思叫自己一线？”。
"A line" this word, Yang Lu only to their own people said, "I am sorry to say to others, afraid others feel that the neighborhood committee also good call their own line?"
她和同事负责约20个楼门，楼上楼下跑一趟是4000级台阶。
She and her colleagues managed about 20 doors, and a trip up and down the stairs was 4,000 steps.
微信步数列表里，满屏的十位数和个位数，他们以五位数雄踞榜首。
The ten-digit and single-digit scale of the microtreadmill table ranks them at the top in five digits.
爬完一趟，杨璐腿是抖的，手指关节敲门敲疼了。
When she finished her climb, her legs trembled and her knuckles banged on the door.
有的门要敲很多遍，里面电视声吵闹，听到门外自报居委会，马上陷入安静。
Some of the doors to knock many times, inside the noise of television, heard outside the door reported to the neighborhood, immediately fell silent.
爬完楼梯出了汗，让风一吹凉嗖嗖的，她也担心“会不会发烧”。
After climbing the stairs out of the sweat, let the wind blowing cool, she also worried "will not have a fever."
上级曾给社区工作者发过口罩，虽然不够一周的用量，也没再追加，但杨璐很感激，“口罩难买，上级真的尽力了” 。
superiors have given community workers a mask, although less than a week's dosage, also did not add, but Yang Lu very grateful, "masks difficult to buy, superiors really do their best."
大年初一，她看药店口罩18元一个，没舍得买，回家想了想，“入户刚需，必须得买”。
New Year's Day, she looked at the pharmacy mask 18 yuan a, not willing to buy, home thought, "just need to enter the house, must buy."
初二再去，连着跑20多家店，都买不到一个了。
Second day of junior high school go again, run continuously more than 20 stores, can not buy one.
后来有自称是医院的人卖给她一沓“N95”，她回家一看，是普通的一次性口罩”。
Later, someone claiming to be a hospital sold her a wad of "N95," and she went home to see that it was a common disposable mask.
花了多少钱，杨璐不想再提。
Yang Lu doesn't want to mention how much money she spent.
社区工作者的装备里还有近视镜、老花镜和平光镜。
Community workers are also equipped with short-sightedness mirrors and goggles.
杨璐本打算入几户就给身上喷点酒精，但看到叼着烟开门的居民，她怕着火，放弃了。
Hiroute tried to spray alcohol on a few households, but when she saw residents holding a cigarette open the door, she gave up for fear of catching fire.
很多居民问“居委会为什么不给我们发口罩、酒精、消毒液”，还有人说“肯定是你们自留了！虚伪！举报投诉你们”。
Many residents asked "why the neighborhood committee does not give us masks, alcohol, disinfectant," and others said "you must have left it! Hypocrisy! Report complaints against you."
被指着鼻子骂的时候，杨璐告诉自己“别上火，居民只是在撒气”。
Pointed at the nose scold, Yang Lu told herself "do not get angry, the residents are just throwing gas."
“但不害怕是假的。
"But it's not true.
病毒传染给社区工作者，他们就成了移动的传染源。
When the virus infects community workers, they become a source of infection.
”虽然上级通知社区志愿者协助他们下户，还有中共党员身份的居民想主动帮忙，但杨璐不敢接受，“万一大家因此生病了呢？”很多人都质疑：“打电话不行吗？非要面对面？”“确实下户摸排会更全面。
Although her superiors told community volunteers to help them, and residents who were party members wanted to help, Yang Lu was afraid to accept, "What if everyone got sick?" Many people questioned: "Can't you phone? Must you meet face to face?"
有时候打电话问有没有接触史、发热史，他说没有，多问几遍或上门问他，看见他本人了，他又说有了。
Sometimes he called and asked if he had any contact with history or fever. He said no. He asked him a few more times or came to him.
”杨璐觉得，“人是很复杂的，隐瞒或告知、配合与否，很大程度上要仰仗居民的善意。
"People are very complicated, so much depends on the goodwill of the residents to hide or inform and cooperate," Yang Lu said.
”3但也不仅仅靠“善意”。
But it is not just "goodwill."
他们贴了宣传单，打过电话，下过户，还拖着跳广场舞用的大音箱满小区广播，加上居民个人也会获取疫情信息，杨璐本以为，“少聚会，戴口罩”执行起来不难。
They posted leaflets, made phone calls, transferred houses, and shuttled megaphones across their neighborhoods, and individual residents got information about the epidemic. "Little party, wearing masks," Yang thought, was easy to carry out.
但她发现，几乎没有居民戴上口罩再开门，常常是不戴口罩的居民和戴口罩的社区工作者倚着门边聊几句。
But she found few residents wore masks before opening doors, and often residents without masks and masked community workers leant against the door to talk.
“春节大家凑在一起，又比较闲，一栋楼里好几户在家里吵架”，有时上门还顺带调解家庭矛盾。
"Spring Festival together, and relatively idle, a building in several families quarrel at home", sometimes accompanied by the reconciliation of family contradictions.
一位武汉返乡人员曾让杨璐觉得“觉悟很高”，他独自住在酒店。
Wuhan returnees have made Yang Lu feel "high consciousness," he lives alone in the hotel.
后来杨璐才知道，每到饭点他回家和父母同桌同吃。
Later Yang Lu learned that he went home to eat with her parents at every meal.
“这样的隔离有什么意义？”杨璐赶紧给他讲居家隔离知识。
"What is the point of such segregation?" Yang Lu quickly told him about home isolation.
一听到打乒乓球的声音，她就紧张。
She was nervous at the sound of playing table tennis.
小区楼下露天的兵乓球台，俩人打球，一群人围观，一个戴口罩的都没有。
There were two players playing table, a group of people watching and no one wearing a mask.
杨璐看得胆战心惊。
Yang Lu shuddered to see.
有一次，她劝两位打球的大爷“没事别出门，出门戴口罩”。
At one point, she advised two of her players to "stay out of the house and wear masks."
大爷摆摆手说：“没事！越有病毒越要运动加强抵抗力，就在院里打安全得很。
The grandpa waved his hand and said: "Nothing! The more viruses have to exercise to strengthen resistance, it is very safe in the yard.
”她好说歹说把老人劝回家，没过一会儿又听见乒乒乓乓。
She coaxed the old man home, and presently heard ping-pong again.
“明明从远处看，俩人打球又没戴口罩”，但大爷看到她靠近，一个提醒另一个，从兜里掏出口罩，戴上继续打。
"From a distance, the two of them were playing ball without a mask," but the man saw her approach, alerted the other, pulled out a mask from his pocket and continued to beat her.
杨璐走远了再回头，发现一个大爷正在摘口罩，还说：“戴着打太闷！”她被气笑了。
Yang Lu walked away and turned back to find a man taking off his mask and saying: "It's too stuffy to wear!" She laughed angrily.
“我像求小学生写作业的班主任。
"I'm like the head teacher asking pupils to do their homework.
”她给大爷点开一张科普图，“喷嚏可以打8米远，病毒可以悬浮24小时”。
She ordered a Coptic Chart for him. "A sneeze can hit up to 8 meters and a virus can hang for 24 hours."
之后，她再没见过大爷打球。
After that, she had never seen him play.
有老人带小孩玩儿雪，杨璐过去制止，“专家说空气中的新冠病毒会被雪花带到地面”。
There are old children playing with snow, Yang Lu stopped, "experts say the air in the new crown virus will be brought to the ground by snow."
老人拉起小孩就往楼上跑，“回去洗手去！”转天，杨璐又看到“辟谣！雪花不会把病毒带到地面”。
The old man took the child and ran upstairs, "Go wash your hands!" The next day, Yang Lu saw "Ballad! Snow will not bring the virus to the ground."
“专家互相打架”，她不知道该相信谁，“但让居民回家呆着肯定没坏处。
"Experts fight each other," she said, not knowing who to trust. "But there's definitely no harm in letting residents go home.
”有人给她发“特效药制成”的消息，她来不及打开，瞄一眼标题。
She had no time to open the news that she had been given "special effects" and glanced at the headlines.
“开始很激动，新冠肺炎马上就能治好了！被女儿科普后，杨璐才知道“还在路上”。
"At first very excited, the new crown pneumonia will soon be cured! By the daughter of science, Yang Lu only know" still on the road. "
“是谁说的，是哪个单位的人说的，是哪发布的，让年轻人验证”是杨璐判断信息真伪的一组标准。
"Who said, which unit of people said, where the release, let young people verify" is Yang Lu judged the authenticity of the information set standards.
之前因为违章建筑，和社区工作者红过脸的居民这次塞给居委会几个口罩。
Residents with red faces and community workers have this time put up a few face masks for the neighborhood committee because of illegal construction.
有人在家门外贴上“自述家庭武汉返乡史、接触史和身体情况”的小纸条，减轻社区工作者入户压力，落款还备注“感谢居委会”。
Some people posted outside their homes "self-described family Wuhan return history, contact history and physical conditions," a small note to ease the pressure on community workers to enter the home, the paragraph also note "thank you committee.
“双黄连口服液”走红的晚上，有居民对杨璐说：“我帮你买！”她很感动，“这时候人家想着你呐”。
"Shuang Huanglian oral liquid" popular night, some residents to Yang Lu said: "I help you buy!" She was very moved, "when people think about you."
第二天她专门跑了趟辖区附近的药店，看看有没有排队，“如果有就把他们揪回去，这个哪能随便喝？”“我的居民我得负责。
The next day she made a special trip to the drugstore near her district to see if there were any queues, and if she could get them back, how could I drink this anywayMy residents I had to answer for it.
”她说。
'she said.
4老同学在马路上碰见杨璐，喊她名字没反应，但喊一声“主任”，杨璐马上回头。
4 old classmates met Yang Lu on the road, called her name did not respond, but cried out "director," Yang Lu immediately turned around.
疫情之前，她更爱看电视剧，不怎么看新闻。
Before the epidemic, she was more likely to watch TV shows than news.
现在回到家，她看各个省市的城市新闻，尤其是社区工作报道。
Back home, she reads the city news from every province and city, especially the community work report.
“看看有什么能学的，这工作不爱操心的干不了，爱操心的干不完。
"Look at what you can learn. The work is too much to worry about, too much to worry about.
”春节，菜市场的摊贩大多没出摊，出摊的又卖得很贵。
During the Spring Festival, most of the vendors in the Halles market didn't come out.
杨璐找来“菜美价廉”的菜贩，规范售菜现场的秩序：买菜的人必须戴口罩，排队的人与人要相隔1.5米。
Yang Lu found "cheap dishes" vegetable vendors, the norms of order at the scene: buyers must wear masks, queuing up to 1.5 meters apart.
社区工作者们还要为出行不便的孤老户和隔离在家的武汉返津人员买菜送菜。
Community workers also have to buy and deliver food to isolated families and isolated people returning from Wuhan.
他们排查了辖区内所有“鄂”牌车，不仅上报信息，还要告知附近住户。
They raided all "E" cars in their area, reporting not only information but also nearby residents.
疫情之下，人的情绪被放大了。
People's emotions are magnified by the epidemic.
有一天，居民听说楼门内有人去世，致电居委会要求防疫站来消毒，要求医院对楼内逐人体检，尽管大家都知道，逝者不是感染者。
One day, residents heard that someone died in the building door, calling the neighborhood committee to ask for disinfection, the hospital to the building on a person-by-person medical examination, although it is known that the deceased is not infected.
越接近复工，越多人担心被驱逐，问杨璐“能不能回小区”。
The closer you get to work, the more people are afraid of eviction and ask Yang Lu if she can "go back to the area."
还有人问“我的狗会被居委会抓走吗？”一位一直配合杨璐工作的武汉返津者突然开始躲着社区工作者，因为“网上看到其他人的经历，害怕信息也被泄露”。
Others ask, "Will my dog be taken away by the neighborhood committee?" A Wuhan reentrant, who has been working with Yang Lu, suddenly shuns community workers because "he sees other people's experiences on the Internet and fears that information will be leaked."
还有人举报“楼上经常传来洗澡的水声，是不是有异常”。
Still others report "upstairs often came the sound of bath water, is there something unusual".
“要排查更要保护。
"It's more protective to check.
”在杨璐看来，预防“对立气氛”形成和鼓励居民有情况及时报告同样重要。
Lu thinks it is equally important to prevent an "atmosphere of confrontation" from forming and to encourage residents to report in a timely manner.
疫情像一场考试，考的不仅是临场应变，更是长期积累。
The epidemic situation is like an examination, not only on-site response, but also a long-term accumulation.
响应上级安排，杨璐和同事手持测温枪24小时把守入口，只有本小区内的居民（包括租户）可以进入，进入者测体温、登记，以户为单位为发放出入卡。
In response to superior arrangements, Yang Lu and her colleagues hand-held thermostat guns 24 hours at the entrance, only residents of the small area (including tenants) can enter, temperature measurement, registration, on a household basis for the issuance of access cards.
难题可能出现在任何一个环节。
Problems can arise at any point.
气温过低时，测温枪无法正常工作，社区工作者们就把测温枪揣在怀里。
When the temperature is too low and the gun doesn't work properly, community workers put it in their arms.
“站马路站得冻透了”，就先去贴宣传单，巡逻棋牌室、理发店，看有没有偷偷开张的，卖元宵的地方有没有排队的。
"Standing on the road is freezing", first to post propaganda, patrol chess room, barber shop, to see if there is a secret opening, there are no Yuanxiao sales line.
跑完一趟热乎了再回来，大家轮流跑——“热循环”。
After a hot run almost came back, everyone took turns running - "hot cycle."
一些社区需要封住几个入口，引导居民走有人负责登记测温的大门。
Some communities need to seal off several entrances and direct residents to the gates where temperature measurements are registered.
社区工作者遭遇过“堵门，居民踹门，再堵，居民再踹”。
Community workers have encountered "blocking the door, residents opened the door, plug again, residents tread again."
到了饭点，要注意骑着电动车强行闯入的外卖员。
When it's time to eat, watch out for takeout workers on electric cars.
大家想过拉一条绳，强闯就挨摔，但“大家都很难，我们只想做好工作，不想和谁作对”。
People want to pull a rope, forced into the fall, but "we are very difficult, we just want to do a good job, do not want to against whom."
有女孩开车几百公里来给男朋友送口罩。
A girl drove hundreds of kilometers to bring her boyfriend a mask.
有附近饭馆的伙计抬来成筐蔬菜到测温点，让居民按需自取，每人可拿两样。
A man from a nearby restaurant carried baskets of vegetables to the temperature measuring point so that the residents could get what they wanted.
菜是饭馆为春节囤的，赶上疫情没人去店里吃饭了。
Food is a restaurant for the Spring Festival hoard, in time for the epidemic situation no one went to the store to eat.
“工作还比较顺利，穿制服的民警在时会更顺利。
"The job is going well and uniformed civilian police will be more successful.
”杨璐感慨，鸡毛蒜皮里有很多智慧——怎么说服性格不同的居民？怎么发动群众的力量，让一部分人帮助说服一部分人？居民和社区工作者吵起来了，居民骂人了，同事哭了，怎么让居民冷静？怎么给同事做心理疏导……因为找来几件军大衣，小李的丈夫是大家公认的“好家属”。
Yang Lu laments that there is a lot of wisdom in the slightest - how to persuade people with different personalities and how to mobilize the masses to help persuade some people? Residents and community workers are quarrelling, residents crying, how to calm residents?
如果没看到妻子“禽流感抓鸡，创文创卫捡垃圾，下暴雨清下水道”，小李的丈夫原本也以为“居委会工作就是坐在办公室里喝茶”。
If he had not seen his wife "bird flu chicken, Chuang Wen Chuang Wei pick up garbage, under the rain clear the sewer," Xiao Li's husband also thought "the neighborhood committee work is sitting in the office tea."
朋友以为小李抱上“铁饭碗”，实际上她并不在“体制内”。
The friend thinks Xiao Li holds "iron rice bowl", actually she is not in "system".
小李本以为鼠年是她第一个可以放假的春节，在此前的那些年里，因为城市禁燃烟花爆竹，她们要巡逻社区直到后半夜才能回家。
Xiao Li thought the Year of the Rat was the first Spring Festival for which she could take a holiday. In previous years, they had to patrol the community until after midnight because of the city's ban on fireworks.
5事实上，体力活杨璐和同事们抢着分担，只需要坐在屋里打打字的“报表”却人人都怕。
In fact, physical work Yang Lu and her colleagues scramble to share, only to sit inside the typing "report" but everyone is afraid.
“总是在报，但成功的没几份。
"It's always in print, but not many.
”他们摸排出来的信息每天都要上报，报给不同的单位。
The messages they map out are reported daily to different units.
相似的内容反复粘贴，一会用word，一会用excel，一边做一边搜索怎么调格式，很多时间都花在修改表格上。
Similar content repeatedly paste, one time with word, one time with excel, while doing a search for how to format, a lot of time spent on modifying the form.
新表越来越多，老表又在变动，一个表要反复填若干回。
More and more new watches, the old watch is changing, a table has to be filled in several times.
报表的人很忙，“但却好像没干什么，就是报了个表”。
The person who made the statement was busy, "but he didn't seem to do anything but make a list."
每天，至少有一个人力被报表“绑住”。
Every day, at least one person is "tied" to the report.
最让杨璐崩溃的是，“好不容易快填完了，格式也调好了，却收到消息说体谅大家的工作，老表先不填了，等会填新发的表就可以了”。
Yang Lu most of the collapse, "hard to fill out, the format has been set, but received the message that considerate of everyone's work, the old watch did not fill out, will fill out the new form.
天气逐渐转暖，一些企业开始复工，学生还未开学。
Gradually, the weather began to warm up and some businesses began to work.
杨璐曾撞见一伙孩子下楼玩耍，没人戴口罩，她在后面追着喊叫，没人理她。
When Lu saw a group of children coming down to play, no one was wearing a mask, she chased after her, no one paid attention to her.
那一瞬间她感到巨大的失望：为什么还是有人不听？要是感染病毒咋办？十余个社区工作者怎么才能管住近万人的行动？好在，从另一个方向追出来的杨璐同事及时堵住那群孩子。
At that moment she felt great disappointment: Why not listen? If infected with the virus? How can more than a dozen community workers control the actions of nearly 10,000 people? Fortunately, from the other direction of the pursuit of colleagues Yang Lu timely blocked the group of children.
上级明察暗访，城市热线收集群众意见，信息都反馈到社区。
The superior inspects secretly, the city hotline collects the public opinion, the information all feedback to the community.
一位社区工作者表示曾听到过“改变公交车发车频率”“让公交车站离小区近点”的要求。
One community worker said he had heard of "changing the frequency of bus departures" and "getting bus stops close to the neighborhood."
杨璐听说有的社区用上了“很先进的监控、消毒或信息登记系统”，她期待并持观望态度，“技术并不能解决所有问题”。
When Lu heard that some communities had "very advanced monitoring, disinfection or information registration systems," she looked on and looked on. "Technology will not solve all problems."
一次深夜做完报表，电视还开着杨璐就睡着了，睡到一半突然惊醒。
When she finished her report late one night, with her TV still on, she fell asleep and woke up in the middle of her sleep.
“恍惚间听到电视里播报，一位新冠肺炎确诊者行动轨迹和自己辖区内一位武汉返津人员轨迹有重合”。
"Trance to hear the television broadcast, a new crown pneumonia confirmed by the track of action and their jurisdiction within a Wuhan re-Tianjin trajectory overlap.
排查后发现是虚惊一场，但她已经睡不着了。
After checking it, it was a false alarm, but she couldn't sleep.
她有时感觉肩负重大责任，要保护好一方居民，“医生在拆雷，我们在排雷”，有时又感觉“很渺小，处理的都是琐事，不值一提”。
She sometimes feels a heavy responsibility to protect one side of the population, "the doctor is removing the mine, we are demining," and sometimes feel "very small, dealing with trifles, not worth mentioning."
不过她从未怀疑过自己工作的意义，最大的愿望是疫情快点过去，大家都健康。
But she never doubted the significance of her work, the biggest wish is that the epidemic quickly over, everyone is healthy.
“保持正能量充沛是居委会主任的职业素养。
"Maintaining a high level of positive energy is the professional quality of neighborhood committee directors.
”杨璐在睡不着的时候安排了第二天的工作：早上调解一户吵架的母子，修好一盏不亮的楼道电灯，去小区门口给居民测温，接着排查外地返津人员并登记造册。
When she could not sleep, Yang Lu arranged for the next day's work: mediating between a quarrelling mother and child in the morning, fixing an unlit light in the hallway, going to the gate to take temperature measurements for the residents, and then checking out and inventorying people returning from abroad.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁夺走了你的微信运动榜冠军。
Who stole your tweets from the top.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "谁夺走了你的微信运动榜冠军";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Who took Ricky & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "体力活抢着干，最怕是填表。
var msg _ desc = & quot; manual labor fought for jobs, afraid to fill out a form.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
