他们开始了一场24小时的抢菜战役。
They began a 24-hour battle for food.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
此地不宜久留，双方远远点个头，就匆匆离开了。
This place should not stay long, the two sides far away, and hurried away.
「我们和农民像一对情侣，农民想卖，我们也想买，阻隔我们不能见面的就是这次疫情，但我们内心还是相互吸引的（笑）。
"We were like a couple of farmers who wanted to sell and we wanted to buy. It was the outbreak that kept us from seeing each other.
」文｜苏铁编辑｜萧祷「砸手里了」李肖林推着一辆三轮车，车上是一筐筐装得满满当当的黄瓜，刚摘没两天，还是翠绿的。
less than twenty-four iron editor,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Lisholin pushed a tricycle loaded with baskets of cucumber, which was green just two days after picking it.
他把车子推到村里扔垃圾的沟旁边，把黄瓜从车上搬下来，统统倒进了沟里。
He wheeled the car down the village garbage ditch, lifted the cucumbers out of the car and emptied them into the ditch.
过完年之后四五天，他估摸着一共倒掉了上万斤黄瓜，损失有几万块，他心疼又难受，「倒的都是钱，都是血汗钱。
Four or five days after the end of the year, he guessed that he had lost tens of thousands of cucumbers and tens of thousands of them.
」他所在的山东烟台市西埠前村村民靠种植黄瓜为生，家家都倒，沟里的黄瓜堆成了高山，邻居家的媳妇儿躲在家里偷偷地哭，村民之间碰了面，不是唉声叹气就是沉默，李肖林感觉「整个村子都死气沉沉的」。
The villagers in Xibu Qiancun, Yantai City, Shandong Province, lived on cucumbers and their families collapsed. The cucumbers in the ditch formed a high mountain. The daughter-in-law of the neighbor hid in the house and met the villagers.
正月本来是黄瓜的销售旺季，销量大，售价高，夏天卖一两块钱一斤，正月能卖到四五块，这个月的收入能占到全年的一半以上。
The first month was supposed to be a sales season for cucumbers, with high sales and high prices. One or two dollars a catty for the summer and four or five dollars for the first month, would account for more than half of the revenue for the month.
李肖林盼着这个春节能多卖一些，他种了四个大棚的黄瓜，每天成熟的大约有两千公斤，他采摘下来，一筐一筐码好放进仓库，怕黄瓜受冻，还小心地一层层盖上棉被，等着蔬菜商进村子来拉走。
Li Xiao Lin looked forward to selling more cucumbers for the Spring Festival. He planted four cucumbers in four sheds, about two thousand kilos a day. He picked them and put baskets of them in the barn for fear of freezing the cucumbers, and carefully covered them with quilts and waited for the veggies to come and pull them away.
然而，一场突如其来的疫情摧毁了他所有的念想。
However, a sudden outbreak of disease destroyed all his thoughts.
过完大年三十，李肖林就发现村口的推拉门上了锁，本村人进出需要登记，外村的人和车辆一律不让进，往年此时来去熙攘的蔬菜收购商也被关在了门外。
At the end of the New Year's Eve, Li Xiao Lin found that the push and pull doors at the village's entrance were locked, people from the village needed to register and people and vehicles from the outside village were not allowed in. Vegetable collectors who had come and gone at this time of the year were also shut out.
「收购商进不来，菜农卖不出去，黄瓜就烂在家里了。
"Buyers can't get in, vegetable farmers can't sell, cucumbers rot at home.
」李肖林说。
"said Li Shaolin.
他想了很多办法，在村子里摆地摊，联系城里的超市，但前面的方法卖不出去，后者想尽办法还是进不来村。
He thought of many ways to put up stalls in the village and contact supermarkets in the city, but the methods ahead could not be sold.
大棚里的黄瓜还在生长、成熟，瓜翠生生的，卖相很好，一根一根挂在枝头，李肖林看着心急如焚，他甚至不知道应不应该再采摘，摘下来吧，卖不出去，往家里拉还浪费人力，只能就近找地方倒掉。
The cucumbers in the shed were still growing and ripening, the melons were green and sold well, one by one hanging on the branches, and he was so anxious that he did not even know whether to pick them or not.
不摘吧，这些瓜就要老了，再长下去影响下一茬黄瓜的生长。
Come on, these melons are getting old, and growing will affect the growth of the next cucumber.
「你一点办法都没有，就眼看着那么长时间的心血没了。
"You have nothing to do with it, and you have seen so much work lost.
」他说。
'he said.
李肖林家滞留的黄瓜图源受访者在李肖林焦头烂额时，150公里外的大成家村村民成硕也陷入了类似的困境。
While Li Shaolin was wrestling with a cucumber source, a similar dilemma befell him in the village of Dachengjiakura, 150 kilometers away.
大年二十八的时候，他发现村口拉了一条红线，不让人过。
When he was about twenty-eight years old, he found a red line at the entrance of the village.
没几天，红线换成了一辆车，彻底不让人走了。
A few days later, the red line was replaced by a car, completely closed.
几个干部在村口搭了个小棚子，轮流值班，一人守一天一宿，吃睡都在棚里，不让外人进。
Some cadres set up a hut at the beginning of the village, took turns at work, stayed alone all day, ate and slept in the shed, and did not let outsiders in.
大成家村靠种植韭菜为生，成硕家里种了四亩韭菜，打算年后割头茬，往年都是本地小商贩进村收韭菜，有时候故意压价，拖欠菜钱也是常事儿，但这是村里出售韭菜的唯一渠道，村民老实，「稀里糊涂也就卖了。
Dacheng Jia Village live by growing leeks, grow four acres of leeks, planning to cut stubble after the next year, is usually small local vendors into the village to collect leeks, sometimes deliberately undervalued, defaulting vegetable money is also common, but this is the only way to sell leeks in the village, villagers honest, "confused also sold.
」成硕计划着，一亩地一茬产两三千斤，分两茬卖个四五万块钱就挺满意了，这笔钱是这个农村家庭一年的全部收入，但那条唯一的渠道在年后被彻底切断了。
"Asus plans to make two or three thousand pounds a acre and sell it for forty-five thousand dollars in two lots, which is the total income of the rural family for a year, but the only channel was completely cut off a year later.
韭菜和别的蔬菜不一样，长好了要赶紧割，长太高叶子会成排倒下，再也起不来，意味着这茬韭菜全完了。
Leeks and other vegetables, grow quickly to cut, long too high leaves will fall down in rows, never to get up, meaning that the entire crop of leeks is over.
割了也很为难，韭菜潮湿，根上培土也放不了两天，卖不出去就开始烂。
Cut also very difficult, leek wet, root soil can not put two days, can not sell began to rot.
成硕记得，这茬韭菜从去年5月份就种下了，7、8月份长出翠绿的小苗，他一株一株地把小苗移植到大棚里，细致地施肥、浇水……这些金钱和时间看上去都要血本无归了，家里被一片愁云惨雾笼罩，吃年夜饭的时候，全家人闷声不响，食不知味。
In July and August, he transplanted seedlings into the shed, fertilizing and watering them carefully... all the money and time seemed to be going to waste, and the whole family was silent and dispirited at New Year's Eve dinner.
五十多岁的母亲着急上火，满嘴都是泡，在床上躺了好几天。
His mother, in her fifties, was in a rage, bubbling and lying in bed for several days.
村里有比成硕家更严重的，一家种了十多亩的韭菜，割完了卖不出去，放在家里白白腐烂，「一年就没收入了，家里人天天哭。
The village is more serious than the master, a family planted more than ten acres of leeks, cut out can not sell out, put on the white rot at home, "a year no income, the family cried every day.
」成硕说。
"said Cheng.
整个村子都陷入了绝望，「就觉得这茬韭菜全完了，就砸手里了。
The whole village was in despair. "I thought it was all over," he said.
」无人问津的韭菜 图源受访者「孤独的行者」转机是在一周之后出现的。
The "lone traveler" turnaround came a week later, according to a survey of Chinese chives.
淘宝吃货项目组发现了李肖林和成硕们面临的困境，而全国各地还有无数个「李肖林」和「成硕」。
The Taobao project team discovered the plight of Li Shaolin and his men, and there were countless "Li Shaolin" and "Asus" all over the country.
为了帮助这些农民，淘宝吃货仅用12小时就上线「吃货助农」频道，首批选择了山东、四川、浙江、辽宁等六省的十款滞销优质农产品。
To help these farmers, Taobao only spent 12 hours on the online "food aid" channel, the first choice of Shandong, Sichuan, Zhejiang, Liaoning and other provinces of 10 unsold high-quality agricultural products.
活动上线的前一天，负责蔬菜行业运营的新人、90后江西女孩龚梦倩一整天都在和蔬菜行业的商家打电话，沟通产品上线的事情。
The day before the launch, Gong Mengqian, a newcomer to the vegetable industry and a 90-year-old girl, Gong Mengqian, has been making phone calls to vendors in the vegetable industry all day to communicate about products going online.
她找到梦强旗舰店，这家店去年线上营收做到了1个亿。
She found Mengqiang flagship store, which last year achieved 100 million online revenue.
创始人郭靖和成克龙是两位三十出头的年轻人，出身农村，店里主要卖水果和蔬菜，郭靖本来想着，过年的时候终于能歇几天了，但疫情打乱了全部的计划。
Founder Guo Jing and Cheng Kelong are two young men in their early thirties, born in rural areas and selling mainly fruits and vegetables. Guo Jingben thought that he would finally be able to rest for a few days during the New Year.
龚梦倩问郭靖，问他「敢不敢试一下绿叶菜」。
Gong Mengqian asked Guo Jing, "dare not try green leafy vegetables".
以前他们店里只有西红柿、南瓜或地瓜等易储藏、运输难度小的农产品，对于一些运输难度较大的绿叶蔬菜，他们是不敢尝试的。
Before, they only had tomatoes, pumpkins or melons, easy to store, transport less difficult agricultural products, for some difficult to transport green vegetables, they are afraid to try.
这次，郭靖说了「敢」。
This time, Guo Jing said "Dare."
他的父母种黄瓜，也遭遇了滞销的困境，他眼看着超市的黄瓜从4块一斤涨到了10块，「其实供应端没有问题，需求端也没有问题，就是中间的那条运输链断了，我感觉到非常难受。
His parents, who grew cucumbers, also had trouble selling them. He watched the cucumbers in the supermarket rise from $4 to $10. "There was nothing wrong with the supply side, nor was there any problem with the demand side.
」郭靖家里种菜、自己卖菜，所以有两重身份，「既想让和我一样在城市居住的人能吃上菜，又想让家里的父母，能把菜卖出去，所以今年就下决心一定要去把这个事去做一做。
Guo Jing, who grows vegetables and sells vegetables himself, has the dual status of "trying to make sure that people who live in cities like me can eat and that their parents can sell their food, so this year I have decided to do something about it.
」他们开始了一场24小时抢菜的战役。
"They began a 24-hour battle to grab the vegetables.
他和成克龙筛选出了几个滞销的蔬菜大品类，包括黄瓜、西红柿、萝卜、白菜、韭菜等，然后开着5米长的卡车到烟台方圆200公里的村子里找货源。
He and Chenkron sifted through several large unsaleable vegetable categories, including cucumbers, tomatoes, turnips, cabbages, leeks, etc., and drove five meters of trucks to search for supplies in a village within a 200-kilometer radius of Yantai.
他们的店此前做过水果出口，资质齐全，在经过了复杂的审批流程之后，终于从当地政府那拿到了一张珍贵的通行证。
Their store, which had previously been a fruit exporter and was fully qualified, received a precious pass from the local government after a complicated approval process.
成硕第一次见到成克龙的时候，他来村子里看韭菜，看了几家之后，他给大家介绍了淘宝的活动，然后说：「你们割吧，韭菜我们全收了。
When Shengsheng first met Cheng Kluong, he came to the village to see leeks, looked at a few, he gave everyone Taobao activities, and then said: "You cut, leek, we have taken all.
」成硕母亲是村里的干部，听完马上去村支部用大喇叭做广播，「有人来买韭菜了！」村里人乌泱乌泱就从家里跑出来了。
Asus mother, a cadre in a village, went to the village branch to broadcast on a large trumpet. "Resplendent scallions come to you."
成硕记得，那会儿的村民们已经不指望能挣多少钱了，哪怕赔钱也想卖出去，别放在家里烂了心疼。
At that time, Asus remembered, villagers have no hope of earning much money, even if the loss of money also want to sell, do not put at home rotten heartache.
但成克龙没压价，每斤收购价比线下收购还多了一两毛，他反复跟心急的村民说，「大家别着急，都会给大家带出去的。
But Cheng Klux did not underbid the purchase price per catty than the offline purchase price is 10 or 20 cents more, he repeatedly told anxious villagers, "Everybody, don't worry, all will be brought out.
」收到消息的那天，成硕家里的阴霾一扫而空，他的母亲中午做了一桌丰盛的菜，有油泼鱼和烩菜，「他们（成克龙）真的是帮大忙了。
"On the day he received the news, the family's haze was gone. His mother cooked a big lunch of oily fish and chowder.
」从过年起，郭靖和成克龙的一天都是从凌晨三点开始，起床第一件事情是打电话，跟菜农挨个确认菜准备好了没，如果准备好了，就以最快的时间穿衣服洗漱，吃点昨晚的剩饭或者煮个泡面，开着卡车出发了。
"Guo Jing and Cheng Kron have been up since the Chinese New Year. The first thing they get up from is to make a phone call, make sure each dish is ready, and if you're ready, get dressed as quickly as you can, eat leftovers or boil noodles from last night and drive off in a truck.
即使拥有通行证，这趟旅程也常常跟游戏过关一样艰难。
Even with a pass, the trip is often as difficult as getting through the game.
在高速路口常常遇到拦截，不让他们出入；种菜的村子有时候连成一片，最里面的那个是最艰难的，「你要过好几道卡，其中有一道卡过不去的话，那你就过不去了。
At high-speed junctions, they are often stopped and denied access; the villages where the vegetables are grown are sometimes connected, the innermost being the hardest. "You have to go through several cards, and if one of them gets stuck, you can't get through.
」郭靖最难受的事情是，农民打电话来，告诉他，「菜运不出来了。
"Guo Jing's worst thing was, when the farmer called and told him," The food won't come out.
」对方语气焦灼，他也难受，但都没什么办法。
"His voice was burning, and he was worried, but he could do nothing.
在一些不熟悉的村子，他们常常受到敌意和驱赶，只能把卡车停得远一点。
In unfamiliar villages, they are often subjected to hostility and eviction and have to park their trucks further away.
执行封锁措施的村民的复杂心情，郭靖也能感觉到，「他们既欢迎我们又不欢迎我们，不欢迎是怕传染，欢迎是因为，我们是来解决他们燃眉之急的，不把菜卖掉，春天怎么活？」后来，他们想到的解决办法是，让村民把菜放到村口，成克龙上去称斤、计算，从支付宝上把钱转给他们，然后把那些菜筐搬到卡车上。
Guo Jing felt the mixed feelings of the villagers who had implemented the blockade, "They welcomed us and did not welcome us, they were afraid of contagion, because we were here to meet their immediate needs, not to sell the vegetables, how to live in the spring?"
此地不宜久留，双方远远点个头，就匆匆离开了。
This place should not stay long, the two sides far away, and hurried away.
「你就感觉跟地下工作者似的。
"You feel like an underground worker.
」郭靖笑着说，「我们和农民像一对情侣，农民想卖，我们也想买，阻隔我们不能见面的就是这次疫情，但我们内心还是相互吸引的（笑）。
"We are like a couple of lovers, farmers want to sell and we want to buy," Guo said with a smile. "It was the outbreak that kept us from seeing each other.
」李肖林的村子一开始也不让成克龙进，成克龙去乡政府做了各种疏通和努力，终于能把车开进村，李肖林家看着家里的黄瓜被卡车运走时，长长出了一口气，如释重负。
"Li Xiao Lin's village did not allow Chenkorong to enter the village at the beginning. Cheng Kelong went to the township government to do all kinds of facilitation and efforts and was able to drive into the village.
本来，家里的老人过年连菜都舍不得买，现在也舍得买些鱼和肉了。
Originally, the old people in the family are reluctant to buy even vegetables, now also willing to buy some fish and meat.
一天下来，郭靖和成克龙要跑大约20多个村子，每天上千公里的路程，拉回七八吨的蔬菜，把菜筐搬到车上的动作要重复上千次。
At the end of the day, Guo Jing and Cheng Kluong had to run about 20 villages, covering thousands of kilometers a day, pulling back 78 tons of vegetables, and carrying the baskets to the cars thousands of times.
他们没有时间吃饭，喝下去的水在高强度的劳动中基本被消耗殆尽，几乎不怎么上厕所。
They have no time to eat, and the water they drink is used up in intense labor and rarely goes to the toilet.
下午就要开始返回，他们得抢在快递车来之前把东西送回去，开车的时候，郭靖能感觉到眼睛发酸发疼，他只能靠大量喝红牛提神，实在撑不住了，只能停车缓一会儿，下车呼吸几口冰冷的空气，挨一会儿冻，清醒了，继续往前开。
They had to get things back in the afternoon before the express van arrived, and Guo felt a twinge of pain in his eyes as he drove. He had to stop for a while, get out of the car, take a few cold breaths, get cold, wake up and move on.
路上几乎没有什么车，城市像是被按下了暂停键。
There were few cars on the road, and the city seemed to have been pressed to pause.
郭靖能看到的，只有警车、救护车、工程车，偶尔还有消防车。
All Guo can see are police cars, ambulances, engineering vehicles and, occasionally, fire engines.
郭靖不喜欢这些车，它们的独自出现像是代表着某件糟糕的事情发生了，「我们不愿意看到这些车，我们更愿意见到的是私家车熙熙攘攘的，和普通人在一块开车。
Guo Jing didn't like the cars. Their solitary appearance seemed to mean something bad happened. "We don't want to see these cars.
」那个时刻，他会感觉到孤独，「以前总感觉生活在一个喧闹的大都市，现在就感觉路上就你自己在这儿跑，就像个孤独的行者，离别人很近又很远，也不知道这疫情会持续多久。
"At that moment, he would feel lonely." He used to feel like he was living in a big, noisy city, and now he feels like you're on the road, like a lonely traveler, near and far away, and not knowing how long the epidemic will last.
」支撑他们的，也许是一些不起眼的瞬间。
"They may be propped up by unremarkable moments.
成克龙记得，有一次他去寿光收油菜。
Chenkron remembers that once he went to Shouguang to harvest rape.
把一个农民的油菜搬到车上之后，双方告别，农民60多岁了，衣着朴素，他用一种几乎是乞求的眼神望着成克龙，「你下次什么时候来啊？我家里还有很多油菜，再长就老了，不值钱了。
After carrying a farmer's canola to the car, the two sides said goodbye. The farmer was in his sixties and plain clothes. He looked at him with an almost beseeching look. "When will you come next time? I still have a lot of canola at home.
」成克龙心中酸楚，安慰他：「我很快就又来了，你放心。
"You can rest assured that I will come again soon," said Chenkron.
」「我就想赶紧帮他们把菜卖出去，尽最大努力帮一帮他们。
"" I just wanted to sell them the food and try my best to help them.
」成克龙说。
"said Cheng.
成克龙在韭菜地里用泡面填饱肚子图源受访者「撑久一点，撑到疫情过去」把菜运回来并不是结束。
Chenkron stuffed his belly with noodles in leek fields. "Hold on a little longer and stay out of the epidemic." Getting the food back is not the end.
平台为了保证消费者的权益，要求商家做到48小时内发货。
In order to protect the rights and interests of consumers, the platform requires businesses to deliver goods within 48 hours.
韭菜需要垫报纸吸水防潮，黄瓜要用珍珠棉包起来，西红柿得塞进塑料充气柱，土豆得一个一个套网套……尽管郭靖已经把30人的团队扩展到了100多人，还是不够用。
Leeks need to pad newspapers to absorb moisture, cucumbers to wrap up with pearl cotton, tomatoes have to be stuffed into plastic inflatable columns, potatoes a sleeve... although Guo Jing has expanded the 30-strong team to more than 100, it is not enough.
按照疫情时期的管理措施，他们不能聚集在一起工作，只能三五个人分成一个小组打包。
According to the management of the epidemic, they could not get together to work and had to pack three or five people in small groups.
更大的困难是纸箱厂大多没有复工，他们到处搜罗各种各样的纸箱，纸箱厂的库存、卖给酒厂的、牛奶厂的箱子，只要是未使用过的干净箱子，他们来者不拒。
More difficult was the fact that most of the cartons had not been returned to work. They searched everywhere for various cartons, cartons, boxes for the winery, boxes for the dairy, and whatever was left of the clean boxes that had not been used.
在接受《人物》记者采访时，成克龙已经找了一天的箱子，但成果寥寥，采访并未持续太久，他便匆匆挂掉电话，继续去寻找。
In an interview with People, Jackie Chan had been looking for a day's box, but results were few, the interview did not last long, he hastily hung up the phone, continue to search.
一些农民知道他们人手不够，让郭靖把打包的材料运过来，「我们帮你打包，你直接拉走就行了。
Some farmers knew they were short of hands and asked Guo Jing to bring in the packed materials. "We'll pack your bags and you can just pull them away.
」郭靖试图支付农民打包费，一个件一块钱，农民都没要。
Guo Jing tried to pay farmers a yuan a piece by piece, but the farmers didn't ask for it.
有些农民卖完了自己的菜，还会帮他找其他货源，半夜11、12点还在帮他联系。
Some farmers sold out of their food and found other sources of supply. They were still in touch with him at 11 or 12 in the middle of the night.
「以前来来回回大家就是买卖，但这次你突然感觉到在这个非常时期，互相帮助的那种朴实无华的温暖。
"People used to come and go to buy and sell, but this time you suddenly felt the unpretentious warmth of helping each other in these difficult times.
」自「吃货助农」上线之后，郭靖和成克龙店里的订单量迎来了一次比双十一还要疯狂的井喷，以前每天蔬菜的订单有三四百个，现在最多时一天能卖十万多单，每天发货量接近一百万斤，那来自于在疫情封闭管控措施之下无法出门买菜的人们，「你就感觉，大家为了吃口蔬菜都抢疯了。
Order volumes at Guo Jing and Cheng Ke Lung's stores have soared to a frenzied pace since the launch of "food aid," with orders of three to four hundred vegetables a day, and shipments of nearly one million pounds a day from people unable to go out and buy food under the containment regime.
」郭靖说。
"said Guo Jing.
龚梦倩也看到，这段时间整个淘系蔬菜类中小商家的成长非常快，线上卖的蔬菜通常不是五斤就是三公斤，组合装、周期购的方式很受欢迎。
Gong Mengqian also saw that the whole Taobao vegetable small and medium-sized business growth is very fast, online vegetables are usually sold either five kilograms or three kilograms, the combination of the approach is very popular.
在她的沟通下，这些商家开始拓展更多的品类，像香椿之类的时令菜有更多的商家去选择。
With her communication, these businesses began to expand more categories, such as Toon more seasonal dishes to choose from.
但商家并没有高价出售这些来之不易的蔬菜，李肖林去梦强旗舰店的页面看过，「他们销量很高，但卖的价格不高，很亲民。
But the merchants did not sell these hard-won vegetables at a high price. LiXiao Lin went to the flagship store of Mengqiang and read it.
」郭靖解释了原因，依他的经验，每年也就这几天菜价涨高，「我们知道它是短暂的，过几天会回落到一个正常值，你就为这四五天调个高价，不是那个事。
Guo Jingjie explained why, in his experience, vegetable prices rose every year over the past few days. "We know it is short-lived and will fall back to a normal value in a few days.
小商小贩你可能会随着行情去调价格，但做大宗货品的时候，少赚一点或者略亏一点还是能行，实在撑不住人家才会涨，我现在还能撑住。
Small business hawker you may adjust the price with the market, but when doing bulk goods, it is possible to earn little or a little less, it is impossible to support the others will go up, I can still support.
」他说。
'he said.
郭靖每天只能睡四五个小时，回到家里在沙发上一闭眼就睡过去了，连衣服都来不及脱。
Guo Jing can only sleep four or five hours a day. He goes home and sleeps on the sofa without even taking off his clothes.
他常常觉得疲惫，四肢酸疼，但想着还得撑下去，「你就是跟时间赛跑，跟体力赛跑，你说你没有那么多体力，不行，你就得挨着。
He often feels tired and sore limbs, but he thinks he has to keep going. "You just race against time, you run against the body, you say you don't have that much energy, no, you got to be next to you.
你能从农民手里合法地把菜拿过来，你能供应上给大家菜吃，你有这个能力，你就得去做，要是以后身体实在撑不住了，那就不干了，但我现在还能干就希望能撑久一点，撑到疫情过去。
You can legally get the food from the farmers, you can serve it to everyone, you have to do it, and if you can't do it later, then quit, but I can still hope to last a little longer and survive the epidemic.
」自淘宝助农上线一周时间以来，卖出了1.8万吨农产品。
Since Taobao put farmers on line for a week, they have sold 18,000 tons of farm produce.
2月13日，淘宝宣布设立10亿规模的爱心助农基金，帮助卖光全国滞销农产品，并实施助农10项措施，包括开通「爱心助农专线」（钉钉号：aixinzhunong）收集滞销农产品信息、在淘宝上推出农产品特卖系列专区、增加对核心产地农产品的集中采购、降低农产品在平台的销售成本、帮助涉农商家免费开通淘宝直播等。
On February 13, Taobao announced the establishment of a 1 billion-dollar farmers' fund to help sell unsaleable agricultural products across the country, and implemented 10 measures to help farmers collect information on unmarketable farm products, launch special selling zones for agricultural products on Taobao, increase centralized purchasing of agricultural products from core areas, reduce the cost of selling agricultural products on the platforms, and help farmers set up free live Taobao broadcasts.
全国上千个蔬菜瓜果大棚在这一天变身淘宝直播间，政府代表、直播大V也上阵帮着吆喝。
Thousands of vegetable melon and fruit greenhouses around the country turned out to be taobao studios on this day, government representatives, live big V also shouted.
龚梦倩说，爱心助农专线公布后，钉钉也已经爆了，接到了来自全国各地1500多个求助销售滞销农产品的请求。
After the release of the special line, Nailing has exploded and received more than 1,500 requests from around the country for help selling unsold agricultural products, Gong said.
放下电话，她要继续战斗去「卖菜」了。
Put down the phone. She's going on fighting to sell vegetables.
衢州柑橘上直播图源受访者她时不时打电话跟进郭靖和各商家发货的情况，叮嘱一定要保证质量。
Quzhou Citrus live chart source interviewees from time to time she calls Guo Jing and various businessmen to deliver goods.
在她眼里，助农的产品，每一笔订单，背后都可能是一个家庭的生活所需，也多多少少是对农民的一份心意。
In her eyes, the products of farmers, each order, behind a family may be needed for life, is more or less a matter of concern to the farmers.
淘宝吃货内部估算，每销售2000斤农产品，就可以帮助一户农民筹备到开春复耕所需费用。
Taobao internal estimate, each sales of 2000 jin of agricultural products, can help a farmer to prepare for the cost of ploughing again in the spring.
在首批登录「吃货助农」频道的商家中，还有不少商家都为武汉疫情捐赠过蔬菜和水果。
Among the first businessmen to sign up for the channel, many have donated vegetables and fruits to the Wuhan epidemic.
淘宝吃货也向外界呼吁，希望有更多消费者通过下单的方式帮助遭受滞销之苦的农民。
Taobao also appealed to the outside world, hope that more consumers through the way of orders to help farmers suffering from unmarketable.
李肖林最近在和村民们商量，本来这些黄瓜肯定是砸了，结果还能卖钱，他们心中感激，想着都拿一部分蔬菜或者钱出来，支援武汉，他们正在联系物流车，「物流车有了的话，我们立马就能捐蔬菜的捐蔬菜，能捐钱的就捐钱。
They are thankful that they will all come out with some vegetables or money to support Wuhan. They are contacting a logistics van. "When the logistics truck is available, we can donate vegetables immediately, and those who can donate will donate money.
」成克龙想着，疫情结束之后，自己要去看一看自己帮助过也帮了自己的农民。
"After the outbreak was over, he thought, he wanted to see the farmers he had helped and helped himself.
过去的那么多天里，大家戴着口罩，远远点头，熟悉对方的声音，但却不知道对方长什么样，连握个手都不敢，「我就是想看看他们。
Over the past few days, people wearing masks, nodding far away, knowing each other's voice, but not knowing what the other person looked like, didn't even dare to shake their hands.
」郭靖则想着，疫情结束，生活恢复正常了，自己也不用再这么紧绷，一定要出去走走，「透透风，串串门，健健身，带上小孩上个游乐场去。
"Guo Jing thought," When the epidemic is over and life is back to normal, you don't have to be so tight anymore. You have to go out for a walk.
」他希望到那个时候，大家都能摘下口罩，过上正常的生活。
"By then, he hopes, everyone will be able to take off their masks and lead normal lives.
图源受访者没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Did the source respondents not see enough? There are more exciting stories waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们开始了一场24小时的抢菜战役。
They began a 24-hour battle for food.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们开始了一场24小时的抢菜战役";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; They started a 24-hour battle to snatch food;;
var msg_desc = "一辆卡车，每天1000公里，从20个村抢运蔬菜。
var msg _ desc = & quot; one truck, 1,000 kilometres a day, hauling vegetables from 20 villages.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
