一对情侣拍摄的武汉：长江、猫咪、眯眼的老人，都在晒太阳。
Wuhan, pictured by a couple: Yangtze River, cat, squint-eyed old man, are all in the sun.
刘楚楚。
Liu Di.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
今天是情人节，这个往日总是被商家消费过度了的浓墨重彩的日子，这次有些暗淡。
Today is Valentine's Day, which used to be overconsumed by merchants on a dark day, this time a little dim.
许多情人依旧还在两地分离，这只是他们这个漫长的分离期中的其中一天。
Many lovers are still separated, just one day during their long separation.
因为疫情，家住武汉的齐薇与男友杨瑜瑾也极少能见面，他们封闭在各自的父母家里，只在上月底相约着拍了一组照片，在大街小巷穿了一遍。
Because of the epidemic, Qiwei and her boyfriend Yang Yu Jin, who lived in Wuhan, also rarely met. They were confined to their parents' homes and only met at the end of last month to take a group of photos and walk through the streets.
我们选择在情人节这天推出这组照片，那是个晴朗的日子。
We chose to launch this set of photos on Valentine's Day. It was a sunny day.
···············1月25日，大年初一，武汉封城的第三天，齐薇的一位朋友在整点发了一条朋友圈——“第一次在我家楼上听到武汉关的敲钟声。
On January 25, the third day of Wuhan on the first day of the Lunar New Year, a friend of Zi Wei sent out a circle of friends on the hour, "The first time I heard the bell of Wuhan Guan in my house.
”一场疫情，让武汉安静了。
Wuhan was quiet after an outbreak of the disease.
过去，在这座人声、汽车声交错的喧闹大都市里，要听见这座古老钟楼的钟声，除非你在整点时候正好贴在大楼旁。
In the old days, in this bustling metropolis of people and cars, you could hear the bells of this old clock tower, unless you were right next to the building at exactly the right time.
她拿出手机，录下了这段声响，那是三公里外传来的钟声。
She took out her cell phone and recorded the sound of a bell three kilometers away.
1月28日，齐薇和男友杨瑜瑾一同出门“扫街”。
On January 28, Qiwei and her boyfriend Yang Yu Jin went out to "clean the street".
“扫街”，即揣着镜头用脚步丈量城市。
"Sweep the street", that is, with the lens of the city measured with feet.
那是齐薇印象中武汉半月里来的第一个晴天，之后，这样的晴天持续了有两三日，又回归阴雨。
It was Qiwei's impression of Wuhan in the first half of a sunny day, after which such a sunny day lasted for two or three days, and returned to the rain.
为了拍摄纪录片，杨瑜瑾在这之后一直在断断续续地出门，拍纪录片之余继续记录着城市的片段。
For the documentary, Yang Yu Jin has been going out intermittently since then, after filming documentaries continue to record the city's fragments.
这几天，随着确诊标准的改变，武汉新冠确诊数再度爆发，2月12日0时-24时，武汉市新增新冠肺炎病例13436例。
In the past few days, with changes in the criteria for diagnosis, Wuhan Xinguan diagnosis broke out again, February 12 0-24 hours, Wuhan City, a new case of 13 436 cases of pneumonia.
疫情严峻程度加重，摄影师们不再出门，待在家里，带着一张张滑动着的照片，以一种特别的方式重新游览了这座江边的城市。
As the severity of the outbreak increased, photographers stopped going out and stayed at home, visiting the river city in a special way with slipping photos.
在网络的记忆中，在一线医院里，1月31号是那些最紧张严峻的日子里其中的一天，但对这座城市里的一些居民来说，它是最好的一天，阳光温煦，久久不散。
January 31 is one of the most stressful days in the online memory of the first-line hospital, but it is the best day for some of the city's residents, and the sun is warm and lasting.
。
.
这里是四美塘公园，几个社区环绕它在中间，过去一直很热闹。
This is Simeitang Park, surrounded by several neighborhoods in the middle. It used to be very busy.
齐薇录下了公园里还在大声播放的流行歌曲，《思念是一种病》。
Qi Wei recorded the popular song still playing loudly in the park, "Missing is a Disease."
当切到下一首郑秀文的《值得》时，桥墩下打太极拳的老人起了势。
When cut to the next Zheng Xiuwen "worth", the bridge pier played Taijiquan old people began to rise.
站在3楼窗口的女孩正探出窗外，举着一副望远镜。
The girl standing in the third floor window was leaning out of the window, holding a pair of binoculars.
当她发现自己也出现在别人的镜头里时，笑出了声。
She laughed when she found herself in someone else's camera.
这是汉口的中山大道，天气好，一些人搬着板凳出来戴着口罩“咵天”。
This is Hankou Zhongshan Boulevard, the weather is good, some people come out with bench wearing masks "weather."
武汉人所说的“咵天”，类似成都和重庆方言中的“摆龙门阵”，闲来无事，扯东扯西。
Wuhan people said that "the weather", similar to Chengdu and Chongqing dialect in the "pendulum", idle, rambling.
江汉路街边，老爷子搬张凳子出来晒太阳。
Jianghan Road street, the old man moved a stool out to bask in the sun.
这在平时几乎是不可能实现的——这里属于汉口早年间的租界区，欧洲风情建筑以及本地老城区特色房屋交错，游客总是要把这条街占满，一旦有人停下来拍照，就会造成交通堵塞。
This is almost impossible in normal times - a concession area in Hankou in the early years of Hankou, European-style architecture and the crisscross of homes in the region's old urban areas that tourists always fill up to create traffic jams if someone stops to take photos.
一位老太正斜穿过马路，正好直视了镜头。
An old woman was zigzagging across the road and looking straight at the camera.
也看到不肯戴口罩的老人，人们用武汉方言“不服周”（不服）来形容他们的刚烈性格，劝”不服周“的中老年人不出门是件极为困难的事，“觉得自己的身体素质好得很”。
Also see the elderly who refuse to wear masks, people use Wuhan dialect "do not agree with the week" to describe their strong character, advised "not to go out of the week" is an extremely difficult thing, "feel their physical quality is very good.
齐薇的姑姑到现在还在每天坚持去上班，做些简单的清扫、消毒工作，姑姑觉得，这个工作做起来很安全，消毒过程中顺便把身上也消了。
Qi Wei's aunt is still going to work every day, do simple cleaning, disinfection work, aunt feel that the work is very safe to do, disinfection process by the way.
这里是同兴里。
This is Tongxingli.
这种叫”里份“的武汉典型民居形式，许多生活设施都为公用，居民生活密集，互帮互助，小巷虽旧，洒扫得干净敞亮。
This is a typical Wuhan residential form called "Lian," many of the living facilities are public, residents living closely together, mutual help, although the alley is old, clean and bright.
巷子两旁两栋楼之间拉一根线，衣服就晾在中间。
The two buildings on either side of the alley pull a line between the clothes hanging in the middle.
平日里穿过，个儿高一点，床单要拂过面庞的。
In the usual way, a little taller, the sheets will brush across the face.
里份的一楼，如今租给了很多年轻人，屋主自己在楼上居住，互不干扰。
The first floor of the building, now rented to a lot of young people, the owner of their own upstairs living, do not interfere.
年轻人进驻后，将古老的房屋改成创意店铺，挂上漂亮的手绘招牌。
After the young people moved in, they turned the old houses into creative shops and hung beautiful hand-painted signs.
往日，这里挤满了同样年轻的游客，试戴手镯、喝点咖啡，参加手工作坊、在旅游攻略上划勾“打卡”。
It used to be crowded with equally young tourists, trying bracelets, drinking coffee, joining craft workshops, and ticking "punch cards" on travel guides.
如今，店门紧闭，年轻的店主与游客们如潮水褪去，这条巷子仿佛又被归还给了这里的老居民——不管怎样，衣服还是要晒的，武汉阴雨潮湿是常态，难得晴天。
Today, shop doors are closed, young shopkeepers and tourists fade, and the alley seems to have been returned to the old residents - anyway, clothes are still to be basked in, Wuhan rainy damp is the norm, rarely sunny days.
晃一圈，杨瑜瑾觉得，全巷子里的居民都出来晾衣服了。
Around, Yang Yojin felt that all the residents in the alley came out to dry clothes.
天气好，杨瑜瑾家楼下关闭许久的小店也悄悄开张，一家鲜花店，一家水果店。
The weather was fine and Ms Yang's long-closed shop, a fresh flower shop and fruit shop, was quietly opened.
老板娘在店内能晒到阳光的位置坐着，打着盹。
The landlady sat in the sun and dozed in the shop.
有人来就卖一点，没人来也可以。
If someone comes, sell a little. No one comes.
这是外卖配送员老计。
It's a take-out distributor's plan.
杨瑜瑾跟拍了他一天，老计讲起送外卖时遇到的一个女孩子，一个人在家自我隔离了十多天，一切获取外界信息的渠道来源于网络。
One day Yang Yu Jin took photos with him. He talked about a girl he met while delivering takeaway food. She was isolated at home for more than ten days.
她咳嗽，总怀疑自己得病，又不敢去验证，总是在家哭。
She coughed, always suspected that she was ill, did not dare to test, and always cried at home.
老计劝慰她，这个世界还没有那么可怕。
Old advice to her, the world is not so terrible.
回来老计对杨瑜瑾感慨，“人如果在一个地方待着不动久了，是会出问题的，你不出来晒晒太阳，你都不知道自己还活着。
Come back to Yang Yu Jin lament, "If you stay in a place for a long time, it will be a problem, you do not get out of the sun, you do not know that you are still alive.
”      这里是武昌区的长湖正街。
This is Changhu Street in Wuchang District.
两个大伯坐着下棋，一个小孩站在旁边看。
Two great-great-great-great-uncles sat playing chess, and a child stood watching.
再旁边是一家寿衣店，被菊花盆簇拥着。
Next to it was a shroud shop, surrounded by chrysanthemum pots.
这种菊花也是武汉的春节一景。
This chrysanthemum is also a scene of Wuhan Spring Festival.
每年春节前夕，主干道的路口、立交桥下、十字路口，菊花大量出现，安安静静的一溜又一溜，像是没有人看管。
Every Spring Festival Eve, the main road junction, overpass, intersection, chrysanthemums appear in large numbers, quietly moving, as if no one watching.
但只要你走近，做出要买的样子，就会有人突然蹦出来，“买花吗”。
But as soon as you get closer and act like you want to buy, someone pops up and says, "Buy flowers?"
我们所看到的武汉，这座拥有上海、北京所无法比拟的第一代城市移民数量，并依靠他们发展起来的城市，每年春节照旧要把这些劳动者还给他们的家乡。
What we see is Wuhan, a city with a first generation of urban migrants unmatched in Shanghai and Beijing, and growing up on them, returning these workers to their home towns every Spring Festival.
有人做过统计，近几年，每年都会有占总人口数三分之一的人回乡过年，其中绝大部分是涌回湖北省内其他的小城、村镇。
Some people have made statistics that in recent years, one-third of the total population has returned home for the Spring Festival, the vast majority of them to other small cities and towns in Hubei Province.
他们家中的老人，去世后就葬在屋后的山上，当他们春节时收拾行囊，要顺手带一盆摆放在墓前的菊花。
The older members of the family, who died and were buried in the hills behind the house, collected their bags for the Spring Festival with a basin of chrysanthemums placed in front of them.
即使是疫情期间，即使在下雨的时候，这些看上去无人看管的鲜花也还待在它的位置里。
Even during the outbreak, when it rained, the seemingly unattended flowers remained in their place.
刚刚封城那一两天，齐薇路过老人聚居较多的青山区，每一条街道都摆着菊花。
Just one or two days after the closure of the city, Qiwei passed the old people living in more Qingshan area, every street put chrysanthemum.
她觉得神奇，“也不知道还会不会有人冒着雨去买，也不知道看管的人还会不会突然蹦出来。
She felt magical. "I don't know if anyone will risk the rain to buy it, and I don't know if the caretaker will pop up suddenly.
”      关于死亡丧葬的仪式感，在这个时间自然是要陷落了。
The ritual of the funeral of the dead, of course, is about to fall at this time.
传染病当前，死去的亲人被迅速处理，再见面，只能是一捧骨灰。
Infectious Diseases At present, the dead relatives are quickly disposed of, meet again, can only be a handfuls of ashes.
而那些以此为业的人依然还在工作。
And those who do so are still working.
巷子里的殡葬用品店里，老头正在制作用来烧给先人的纸房子。
At the funeral parlour in the alley, the old man was making a paper house to burn for his ancestors.
三层的豪宅，刚搭好了骨架，放上大木柜子和彩电，贴上新春“福”字。
The three-storey mansion, just completed the skeleton, put on the wooden cabinet and color TV, affixed the New Year "blessing."
老爷子桌子上的香烟，一包是黄鹤楼，40块一包那种，可阔气，另两包是便宜货，一包白金龙一包红金龙。
The old man's cigarette on the table, a package of yellow cranes, 40 yuan a pack of that, but rich, the other two packs are a bargain, a bag of platinum dragon red dragon.
过年了，人们兜里揣一包好烟，一包便宜烟，见人时好烟发出来，有面子。
The New Year, people in their pockets a good pack of cigarettes, a package of cheap cigarettes, good smoke issued when the face.
没有人的时候，就偷偷抽回便宜烟。
When no one else is around, sneak back cheap cigarettes.
照片只拍了一张，刚摁一下，老爷子偏头余光扫到，气汹汹，“拍么司拍（拍什么拍）”。
Photographs only took one, just press, the old man turned head to sweep, angry, "who beat (what beat)."
吓跑了。
She scared away.
从巷子一直往外穿，就走到了桥头堡，武汉每年的渡江节都从这里出发。
From the alley continued to wear out, came to the bridgehead, Wuhan every year from the ferry from here.
站在这个著名的观景位置上，扫一个连贯镜头，你可以同时看到长江大桥、湖北龟山电视塔等地标建筑。
Standing in this famous view position, sweeping a coherent lens, you can see the Yangtze River Bridge, Hubei Turtle Hill TV Tower and other landmarks.
对于杨瑜瑾来说，这条江早就失去了其神秘性。
For Yang Yu Jin, the river had long lost its mystery.
长江、汉江在武汉交汇后，将武汉全城分为三个镇。
The Yangtze River and the Han River meet in Wuhan, Wuhan will be divided into three towns.
长江大桥连接武昌和汉阳，二桥连接武昌和汉口。
Changjiang Bridge connects Wuchang and Han Yang, Erqiao connects Wuchang and Hankou.
杨瑜瑾爱走路，长江大桥、二桥，他走了无数遍。
Yang Yu Jin loves walking, Changjiang Bridge, Erqiao, he walked countless times.
“在武汉，不管你住在哪里，你几乎是每天都要过江的。
Wuhan, no matter where you live, you have to cross the river almost every day.
”从巷子里走出来，一直往下，你会下到临江的一排很长的阶梯，人们一般坐在上面看江景。
Get out of the alley and go straight down. You'll go down a long row of stairs along the river, where people generally sit and watch the river.
图中背影是个年轻男性，戴了口罩，在那坐了很久。
The back image shows a young man wearing a mask and sitting there for a long time.
如果你在武汉长大，你记忆里关于这个城市的光色 ，也许一半都要被长江的粼光占据。
If you grew up in Wuhan, you will remember the light of the city, perhaps half of it will be occupied by the shimmering of the Yangtze River.
比起许多其他同样号称水都、江城的城市，长江对武汉人而言亲密得多。
The Yangtze River is much closer to Wuhan people than many other cities that are also called water capitals and river cities.
每一位武汉父亲，在正值壮年时可能都游过长江，并在反复讲述中将故事渲染成孩子眼中的传奇。
Every Wuhan father, who swam across the Yangtze River in his prime, told the story repeatedly as a legend in the eyes of his children.
齐薇上小学的时候，坐在江边上玩沙子，看着爸爸和伯伯结伴下江，她记得那种当视线中失去爸爸的身影时的恐惧。
When Qi Wei was in primary school, sitting on the river playing sand, watching my father and uncle go down river together, she remembered the fear of losing his father in sight.
那条去往天兴洲的超过1000米宽的河道，爸爸最后游了估摸有1/4。
The river to Tian Xingzhou, more than 1000 meters wide, father's last swim estimated that a quarter.
在武汉，江水无处不在，它属于日常的市民生活，属于老一辈人刮风下雨雷打不动的江边散步，而对于那些桀骜不驯的年轻人，它也努力地长进他们的身体。
Wuhan, the river is ubiquitous, it belongs to the daily life of the citizens, belong to the old generation of wind and rain can not beat the river walk, but for the rebellious young people, it also try to grow into their bodies.
齐薇跟我讲，武汉人教小孩学游泳，不去游泳池子里，大人们认为，把孩子往江里一丢是更好的方法。
When the Wuhan people taught their children to swim instead of swimming in the pool, the grown-ups thought it would be better to throw the children into the river.
她去年夏天拍了张照片，一个5、6岁的小男孩穿个裤衩嗷嗷大哭，妈妈在一旁怒吼，奶奶在一旁着急。
She took a picture last summer of a 5 or 6-year-old boy in a panty cry, her mother yelling, and Grandma worried.
妈妈说来说去只有一句，“哭么司哭，你下去了你就会游了。
Mom said it all over again, "Well, cry, you'll swim when you get down.
”在武汉的老人口中，一个柔情的说法被反复传颂，觉得夏天蚊子嗡嗡，咬的难受吗？你只要去江里面把脚泡一泡，蚊子就不咬了。
In the old man's mouth of Wuhan, a tender saying is repeated, do you think the mosquito buzzes and bites hard in summer? You just go inside the river and soak your feet, and the mosquitoes won't bite.
在疫情压城的这些日子里，许多不同的摄影师去往江边拍照，因为江边总是有人。
In the days of the epidemic, many different photographers went to the river to take pictures, because there was always someone on the river.
28号那天，有个老爷子钓上了好大一条鱼。
On the 28th, an old man caught a big fish.
“真大呀，我觉得我一个人吃，可以吃一个星期。
"It's so big, I think I can eat it alone for a week.
”杨瑜瑾回味起来啧啧称奇。
Yang Yu Jin marveled at the aftertaste.
老人很沉稳，口罩下看不出表情，把鱼往地上一甩。
The old man was so calm that he could not see under his mask and tossed the fish to the ground.
齐薇用手机拍了一段视频，”他开不开心不知道，我们挺开心的。
Zellwey took a video with his cell phone. "He wasn't happy. We were happy."
“Play鱼就躺在干干的地上，卡在两个石头缝里面，一直奋力蹦着，直到他们离开的时候还在挣扎。
"The Play lay on the dry ground, stuck in two crevices, and hopped on until they left, still struggling.
调转方向，往户部巷深处走，走到青龙巷，你就能看到远处的黄鹤楼。
Turn around and walk deep into the alleyway of Qinglong Lane and you will see the Yellow Crane Tower in the distance.
夜晚，黄鹤楼亮了起来，红得让人心惊，“像着了火一样。
At night, the Yellow Crane Tower is bright, red is startling, "like a fire.
” 灯亮归亮，生活在这里的人没有一个人往那边望。
The light came back, and no one living here looked out.
在齐薇印象中，自去年十月军运会开始，黄鹤楼就像这样一到夜晚就”发光“了。
In Qiwei's impression, since last October's military games began, the Yellow Crane Tower just like this to "shine" at night.
晚上七时，秒针刚敲过00分，整条江两岸的，包括黄鹤楼在内的所有地标楼体、山体、大桥同时亮起，赤橙黄绿青蓝紫，不停地变换。
At 7 p. m., the second hand had just struck 100, the entire river, including the Yellow Crane Tower, all landmarks, mountains, bridges, red orange, yellow, green, blue and purple, constantly changing.
这几日，“武汉加油”的巨型LED灯又被加了上去，更加璀璨夺目。
These days, "Wuhan refueling" giant LED lights were added up, more brilliant.
“加油”只是几个字，勇气都在武汉人心里。
"refueling" is only a few words, courage in the hearts of Wuhan people.
疫情期间，在这个国家的各个角落，数不清的个人体验正在同步发生。
Countless personal experiences are occurring simultaneously in all corners of the country during the epidemic.
我们希望对这段特殊时期的个人经历加以收集和呈现，以此作为一种记录与见证。
We hope to collect and present personal experiences from this particular period as a record and a witness.
图片、文字、视频……任何介质、任何形式的个人记录，都可以发送给我们。
Pictures, text, videos... any medium, any form of personal records, can be sent to us.
您可以选择将你的故事或者想提供的线索发送邮件至gqreport@163.com ，也可以点击阅读原文，在问卷中上传与填写您的答案。
You may choose to send your story or any clues you wish to provide to gqreport @ 163.com, or you may click on the original text to upload and fill in your answers in the questionnaire.
在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：刘楚楚编辑：何瑫摄影：杨瑜瑾、齐薇运营编辑：肖呱呱。
In the background of the public response to eggs, sent you a colorful article: Liu Dou Editor: As soon as possible, Yang Yu Jin, Qiwei Operations Editor: Xiao Quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一对情侣拍摄的武汉：长江、猫咪、眯眼的老人，都在晒太阳。
Wuhan, pictured by a couple: Yangtze River, cat, squint-eyed old man, are all in the sun.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "一对情侣拍摄的武汉：长江、猫咪、眯眼的老人，都在晒太阳";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; a couple photographed Wuhan: the Yangtze River, cats, and squint-eyed elderly people, all at & quot; & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "这时候你出去，拍到的都是中老年人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; when you went out, you took pictures of middle-aged and elderly people.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '一个武汉人的春节朋友圈',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一边送餐一边拍照：我看到了最真实的武汉',。
Take a picture while delivering a meal: I saw the truest Wuhan & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '彼此隔离的日子里，我们想听到你的消息',。
At the time of our separation, we wanted to hear from you at & apos; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
