外卖订单里的武汉：穿越隔离的爱情、亲情与勇气。
Wuhan in the take-out order: across the separation of love, family and courage.
丁畏。
Terror Ding.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
除夕前夜，因疫情蔓延，武汉宣布封城，机场、火车站、市内公共交通停闭，江城困围。
On New Year's Eve, due to the spread of the epidemic, Wuhan announced the closure of the city, airports, railway stations, public transport closed, Jiangcheng siege.
封城以来，许多武汉人都承受着分离的苦楚，担心年迈独居的父母买不到菜，惋惜爱人最需要的时却不能陪在身边，常年在外工作的父亲错过仅有的看望孩子的机会。
Since the closure of the city, many Wuhan people have suffered the pain of separation, fear that elderly parents living alone can not buy food, regret that their loved ones most in need of time can not accompany, the father who has been working outside all year long missed the only chance to see their children.
疫情可以隔绝空间，却不能隔离爱。
Outbreaks can isolate space, but not love.
如今在武汉，有一条链接外界的隐秘通道正在建立起来。
Now in Wuhan, a secret passageway linking the outside world is being built.
过去的一周，在阿里巴巴的平台上，共有超过20万个异地订单被送往武汉，它们是外地女儿给行动不便老人买的菜，是困守别处的父亲送给儿子的新年礼物。
Over the past week, more than 200,000 off-site orders have been sent to Wuhan on Alibaba's platform for non-resident daughters to buy meals for elderly people with reduced mobility and New Year's gifts to their sons from their father elsewhere.
这些爱心任务，全都落在街头驱驰的送货骑手身上，在他们眼里，可以看到一个未被隔绝的武汉。
These loving tasks, all fell on the streets of the delivery riders, in their eyes, you can see an unisolated Wuhan.
文|丁畏送给妈妈的玫瑰花阿里巴巴的数据显示，武汉外卖的「异地订单」里，有三万笔是给老人的。
Figures from Alibaba, a rose given to his mother by Ding Wei, show that 30,000 of Wuhan's take-out "off-site orders" were for old people.
下单人多是远方的游子，疫情之下的春节里，武汉是他们想回却回不去的家，而留在城中的父母，是他们心里最深的牵挂。
Under the epidemic situation of the Spring Festival, Wuhan is they want to go home but can not go back, and the parents left in the city, is their deepest concern.
口述骑手：冯庆元 男 40岁春节前不久，我就回过一次家，之后再回来继续加班，二十九这天早晨刚起床，就看到新闻说武汉要封城，想着家里老人多，干脆就留下来，不把危险带回去。
I just got up on the morning of the 29th, and saw the news that Wuhan was to be closed down, thinking of the old people at home, so I simply stayed and did not take the danger back.
没能回家过年，好多人都给我打电话，父母兄弟姐妹这些，连很久没见的远房亲戚都打来问候，女儿则是早晚一个电话「监督」我。
Failing to go home for the New Year, many people called me, my parents and brothers and sisters, even the distant relatives have not seen for a long time called greetings, my daughter is a telephone "supervision" me sooner or later.
其实最开始也怕，下班回来躺在床上，总是要失眠，到凌晨五六点才睡得着。
In fact, the most afraid of coming back from work in bed, always insomnia, until 5 or 6 a.m. can sleep.
后来我就想吧，医生是一线，咱们送外卖的也算二线了，我要不出来，有人真没办法。
Then I thought, the doctor is a line, we send to take away is also a second line, I do not want to come out, someone really can not do.
武汉的街头空荡荡，有时一个人骑车走在路上，想起这些天遇到的那些人和事儿，也不算太糟。
Wuhan streets are empty, sometimes a person on the road, think of the people and things encountered these days, is not too bad.
那天接了个盒马的单子，给一对老年人送水果蔬菜。
That day received a box of horses to send fruit and vegetables to an old man.
盒马的店员告诉我，这是客服特殊处理的，下单的人是位四十多的女士，人在上海回不来，武汉家里只有两个老人相依生活。
The clerk in the box told me that it was a special case of customer service. The person who ordered it was a lady of more than 40.
因为买不到东西，两个老人已经吃了好几天剩菜，店员告诉我说，那个女士在电话里直接哭了，事情紧急，让我抓紧。
Unable to buy anything, the two old men had been eating leftovers for days. The clerk told me that the woman was crying over the phone.
上了楼，开门的果然是个老人，头发花白，身体有些佝偻，隔着口罩连忙说谢，还硬要塞给我两个口罩。
Upstairs, the door is really an old man, gray hair, some bent body, thanks through the mask, but also hard fortress to give me two masks.
后来听说，那位女士还专门打电话感谢客服，都是为人儿女，她的心情我懂。
Later I heard that the lady also made a special phone call to thank the customer service, are all sons and daughters, her mood I understand.
我做的这个工作，一直都很平淡琐碎，但这种特殊时期，突然又有一些挺有意义的事，竟然都落在我身上。
I have been doing this work, has been very trivial, but this special period, suddenly there are some quite significant things, even fell on me.
很多订单上都会有一些特别的备注。
Many orders have special comments on them.
近段时间在武汉的饿了么、盒马异地订单都会有类似备注像叮嘱戴口罩这种备注，还有些明确的目的，可以看出背后儿女们的着急，我可以转告老人。
Recently in Wuhan hungry, box horse off-site orders will have similar remarks such as orders to wear masks, there are clear objectives, you can see behind the children's anxieties, I can tell the elderly.
有的备注，没有什么直接目的，比如说「送给爸妈的！麻烦了。
There are some remarks, there is no direct purpose, such as "for parents!"
」、「辛苦了，爸妈独自在家，我们在外回不来」、「辛苦了，武汉封城，无法回来看望爸妈。
"" Hard work, parents at home alone, we can not go home "," Hard, Wuhan sealed the city, unable to come back to see their parents.
」一开始我想，他们写这些，有什么实际意义，我又能做什么呢？后来我想明白了，他们这是无奈啊，想爸妈了，又不知道哪里去说，只好写给我这个会见到他们爸妈的人看，给自己一点安慰。
"At first I thought," What are the practical implications of their writing, what can I doLater I realized that they were helpless, missing their parents and not knowing where to say it, so I had to write to someone who would meet their parents and give them some comfort.
所以后来每次载着这些东西出去送，总会觉得沉甸甸的，觉得意义不同，它们不只是物体，更是感情。
So every time I go out with these things, I always feel heavy and different. They are not only objects, but also feelings.
有个身处山东的小伙子，给武汉家里送的东西是84消毒液；有个北京的小姑娘会特意打电话跟我说，过去时一定要多找找路，因为小区不好走，一定要等到东西送达她才挂电话；还有个远在安徽合肥的女儿，给她妈妈买的东西，是一束鲜红的玫瑰花。
There was a young man in Shandong who gave the Wuhan family disinfectant 84; a little girl from Beijing would have called to tell me that in the past, she had to look for more directions because the neighborhood was not easy to go until things arrived before she hung up.
「请骑手小哥跟男朋友说声：我想你。
"Ask the rider brother to say to his boyfriend," I miss you.
」疫情隔绝了家人，也隔绝了身处武汉内外的朋友和情侣们。
The outbreak has cut off families and friends and couples in and around Wuhan.
在这段时间里，他们不得不忍受无法见面的困扰。
During this time, they had to endure being unable to see each other.
但疫情没有隔绝他们之间的互动，通过异地下单，许多人向武汉的朋友和伴侣传递出了各自的关切。
But the outbreak did not sever their interaction, and by placing orders elsewhere, many people conveyed their concerns to friends and partners in Wuhan.
武汉也向外传递着自己的声音，虽然身处封城之中，武汉的用户仍在初一到初三期间，给外地的亲友投喂了3995单。
Wuhan also transmitted its voice to the outside, although in the middle of the city, Wuhan users are still in the first three days of junior high school, to the outside world to feed 3995 relatives and friends.
口述骑手：康卓玉 男 33岁初二下午三点左右，我接到一个订单，是去超市拿东西，仔细一看，东西还真多，估计我一车拉不完。
Oral Rider: CangZhuoyu male 33 years old about 3 pm, I received an order, is to go to the supermarket to pick up things, a closer look, things are really much, estimated I can not pull a load.
我又扫了一眼备注，当时就有点被感动到，上面写着蛮长一段字：「您好，这是给我朋友点的，她来参加医疗援助，我不知道具体房间号，请务必送至本人手上，谢谢。
I took another look at the note, and it was a little touched. It said, "Hello, this is for my friend. She came for medical assistance. I don't know the exact room number.
」我很快就找到那家超市，别的门店都关着，长长的街道上，只有这一家还孤零零的开着。
"I quickly found the supermarket, where all the other shops were closed, and the only one on the long street was left standing alone.
订单里的东西大都是吃的，牛奶、饼干、八宝粥之类，装满三个怡宝矿泉水包装箱，因为不需要保温，我把其中一箱放在前面踏板上。
Most of the items in the order were food, milk, biscuits, porridge, etc., filled with three Jardine's mineral water boxes, one of which I placed on the front pedal because it did not require heat preservation.
武汉街头从没这么空过，路上一个行人都没看到，只偶尔有辆车经过。
Wuhan street has never been so empty, a pedestrian did not see, only occasionally a car passed by.
目的地并不远，三公里多，以前161医院，现在的中部战区总医院，我要送东西的地方是隔壁酒店，这里现在也隔离起来收治病人。
The destination is not far, more than three kilometers, the former 161 hospital, now the central war zone general hospital, the place I want to deliver things is the hotel next door, which is now also isolated for patients.
东西只能送到门口，给收货人打电话过去，接电话的是个声音细细的女生，好一阵过后，她才从大楼里走出来，我一看顿时惊了：小巧玲珑的个子，全身军装。
It was only to the door that I called the consignee. It was a thin-voiced girl who answered the phone. After some time, she came out of the building.
我看东西重，就隔得远远从口罩里说话，想帮她送一下。
I looked at the heavy things, and spoke from a distance through the mask, trying to give her a hand.
她回我谢谢，说自己可以分批搬，我不能进去。
She thanked me and said I could move it in batches. I couldn't get in.
看着她小小的背影，我一下明白，远方那个关心她的男生为何那么焦急。
Looking at her small back, I understand why the distant boy who cares about her is so anxious.
饿了么骑手正在为武汉一线医护人员运送配餐。
Hungry riders are delivering meals to Wuhan first-line medical staff.
送过的饿了么单子里，还有不少这样的故事。
There are many such stories in the list of hungry people.
有个广州的女生，给武汉的男朋友点了一份黄焖鸡米饭，她在备注里写着：「今天男朋友生日，麻烦外卖小哥送到的时候帮我说句生日快乐！异地恋又封城，男朋友一个人吃了很久泡面了。
A girl from Guangzhou ordered a chicken stew rice for her boyfriend in Wuhan. In her remarks, she said, "Today is my boyfriend's birthday, please say Happy Birthday to me when he arrives.
」另外一个广州的哥们，也在小四川家常菜的湖大店点了餐：「我人在外地，担心女朋友一个人在武汉没饭吃。
"Another Guangzhou buddy also ordered a meal at a small Sichuan home-cooked food store:" I am away, afraid my girlfriend alone in Wuhan do not eat.
」我还接过一个非常棘手的活，是个浙江女生给武汉的男朋友买水果，备注里却提了个特殊的要求：请给他说声我想你。
"I also took over the delicate task of a Zhejiang schoolgirl buying fruit for her boyfriend in Wuhan, but made a special request in the remarks:" Please tell him I miss you.
一路上我都在斟酌，这句话怎么说，以及要不要说，不说其实不会有什么影响，我觉得有些臊。
I thought about it all the way, and felt ashamed to say it, or not, that it didn't really make any difference.
到了小区进不去，等人出来拿，我远远看到一个男生走过来，裹着袜子，穿着拖鞋，戴个黑框眼镜，胡子也没刮，整个人看起来都很萎靡。
Arriving at the neighborhood, waiting for someone to come out to pick it up, I saw a boy from afar, wrapped in socks, slippers, wearing black-rimmed glasses and no shaving.
他接了东西，转身就走，走了两步又忽然停下来，有些嘟哝地说了声：「辛苦啊，谢谢。
He took something, turned away, took two steps and then stopped short, murmuring something like, "Oh, thank you.
」然后我也忽然喊住他，先是哎一声，再说的：「你女朋友让我给你说，她想你。
"Then I stopped him, too, and said," Your girlfriend asked me to tell you that she missed you.
」他听了，咧着嘴笑起来，又说了声：「谢谢。
"With a grin on his face, he said," Thank you.
」「给一线的英雄们，麻烦老板全部切块！」在这段特殊的日子里，上万用户在外卖订单备注里给武汉这座城市加油、祈福。
"To the heroes on the front line, please cut the boss into pieces!" On this special day, tens of thousands of users cheered and blessed the city of Wuhan in their take-out orders.
其中，备注「武汉加油」、「祈福武汉」等的订单中超过8成来自上海、北京、杭州等200多个城市。
"Wuhan refueling," "blessing Wuhan" and other orders of more than 80 percent from Shanghai, Beijing, Hangzhou and other more than 200 cities.
同时，骑手接到的、类似送往武汉抗疫一线的外卖订单超过6万单。
Meanwhile, riders have received orders for more than 60,000 takeaway orders similar to those sent to Wuhan.
口述骑手：刘军武 男 42岁我是河南人，老婆家乡在湖北，孩子都是岳母在这边带大，高中毕业后，四处打拼二十多年，最后落脚武汉，当了一名饿了么骑手，比以前工厂挣得多。
Oral rider: Liu Junwu male 42 years old I am a Henan, his wife's hometown in Hubei, the children are brought up here, high school graduates, after more than 20 years, finally settled down in Wuhan, become a hungry rider, than before the factory earned more.
本来春节也没打算回家，想着有补贴，可以多挣点，又遇上疫情，只好加紧着干。
Originally Spring Festival also did not plan to go home, think of subsidies, can earn more, and encountered an epidemic, had to step up to do.
我所在的站点，有个特别的任务，每天给附近的中南医院配送两顿餐，300多份饭，我们8个骑手，由站长带头，轮番上阵，每次回来都要全身消毒。
My site, a special task, to distribute two meals a day to the nearby Zhongnan Hospital, more than 300 meals, we eight riders, led by the station master, rotation, every time back to disinfect the whole body.
武汉发生疫情以来，全国人民都伸手援助，之前都是看到新闻上说，有人捐钱，有人捐物资，没想到我也有机会亲身经历这些。
Wuhan since the outbreak of the epidemic, the people all over the country have reached out to help, the previous is to see the news that someone donated money, some donated goods, did not expect me to have the opportunity to experience these.
武汉虽然封城了，但大家的爱心却没有被隔断，对于这个我尤其有体会。
Wuhan although the closure of the city, but everyone's love has not been cut off, for this I have a special experience.
因为挨着医院近，我们这边经常都接到一些特别的外地订单。
Because of the proximity of the hospital, we often receive some special overseas orders.
对方就是点一份东西，既不是送给家人，也不是送给朋友，而是关心那些一线医护人员，他们也不指定是谁，只说送到医院就行。
They order something, not for family or friends, but for front-line health care workers, who do not specify who is going to the hospital.
这些无名的爱心都特别令人感动，我本来就是要去医院的，所以每当接到这种「爱心订单」，我都直接放到本来的配餐里，一起送过去，这样即满足了网友们献爱心的心愿，把单子接下来，同时也不至于找不到人接收，白白浪费。
When I received a love order, I put it directly into my original meal and sent it to them. This satisfied the desire of the netizens to show their love, and then the list could not be lost and wasted.
这些来自全国各地的订单，一般都会有很长的备注，表达他们对武汉和一线医护人员的关心。
These orders from all over the country, will generally have long remarks, to express their concern about Wuhan and front-line medical personnel.
「我是福建安溪人，在安溪与武汉人同在，加油！尽一份绵薄之力，给医院在岗医生护士」「这是来自成都的关心，希望医护人员每一位都好好的，不用给我打电话，放前台就可以谢谢」「我是天津这边的，请您帮忙送你们喜欢吃的饺子就可以！除夕夜让医护人员也能吃上饺子！武汉加油！」「来自南京，老板请按照你们武汉的口味做！」「甘肃同胞为武汉加油，奋战在一线的英雄们，您们辛苦了，麻烦老板全部切块！」虽然东西不多，但每一份外卖背后，都是实实在在的热情，我去实现它们，只是举手之劳，心意最重要。
"I am from Anxi, Fujian Province, with the Wuhan people, Come on!" "This is a concern from Chengdu, I hope every health-care staff can eat dumplings! Wuhan!" "I am from Tianjin, please help you to eat dumplings!
「爸爸爱你的心与你同在」此刻还在武汉街头送货的骑手，许多是外地人。
"Daddy loves your heart with you." The rider, many of whom are outsiders, is still on the street in Wuhan.
因为封城，这个春节他们也无法与家人团聚，众多关心家人的异地订单，不免在他们的心里激起波澜。
Since the closure of the city, they can not be reunited with their families this Spring Festival, many care about the family's orders in different places, unavoidably stirred waves in their hearts.
好在，他们也有人关心。
Fortunately, there are people who care.
口述骑手：孙青田 男 28岁我儿子今年两岁，本来打算回家过年，后来武汉封城，没能回得去，就一个人待在出租屋里，每天跟家里视频，很想他们啊。
Oral Rider: Sun Qingtian male 28-year-old My son was two years old and had planned to go home for the New Year.
虽然整天在外面跑着有风险，但也能收获一些别人没有的东西。
While it's risky to run outside all day, you can harvest something that others don't have.
我骑车走在街上，就不止一次看到别人对我竖大拇指，对我喊「加油」，那种感觉还真是挺好的。
More than once, as I rode down the street, I saw people give me thumbs up and yell, "Come on."
有人会送我口罩，有人托我买东西，还特地给我说，不要勉强，买不到没关系，注意自己安全。
Someone will give me a mask, someone asked me to buy things, but also specially told me, do not force, can not buy all right, pay attention to their own safety.
这种陌生人之间的关心，真的，说实话，以前还挺难有这种经历的。
This kind of care between strangers, really, to be honest, used to be hard to experience.
其实处在我这个位置上，尤其能感受到大家平时都不表现出来的感情。
In fact, I am in this position, especially to feel that everyone usually do not show the feelings.
那天送一份水果，是一位在北京的大姐买的，留言里的口气，一听就是个北方姑娘，称人「大妹子或者大兄弟」，还特嘱咐商家，要把水果洗好切好，「我家那口子」不会。
I'm sorry to hear that you are a big brother or sister of Northern Ireland. I am very glad to hear that you have given me a piece of fruit that day.
路程不远，几分钟便到，是个新小区，铁栅门的黑漆发亮。
The distance was short, and in a few minutes it was a new quarter, with the grating doors glowing with black paint.
保安把我拦下来，说进不去，只好给收货人打电话。
The security guard stopped me and, unable to get in, had to call the consignee.
打了三次才通，是个粗厚的声音接起来，对方很忙的样子，只说放在门卫室就好，讲过谢谢就挂了电话。
Hit three times, is a thick voice to connect, the other side is very busy appearance, just said to put in the guard room, said thank you hung up the phone.
那边的声音听起来有些杂，像是在医院，难怪，会被人那么挂念。
That sounds a bit miscellaneous, like in the hospital, no wonder, people will be so worried about.
有个单子我送得特别有劲，是杯奶茶，但却有个很特别的需求，要店家画一个小猪佩琦。
I have a special request to draw a Piggy Piggy. It is a cup of milk tea.
我坐在那里等，店员是个年轻姑娘，她在柜台琢磨半天，终于在白纸上画出一个简易的佩琦，小小的，有些变形，但也还蛮可爱。
As I sat there waiting, the clerk, a young girl, worked her way through the counter and finally drew a simple Peggy on white paper.
也是进不了小区，给对方打电话，一个女人接的，旁边还有孩子在嚷，喊爸爸。
Is also unable to enter the community, to each other on the phone, a woman picked up, there are children shouting, calling father.
我想着自己儿子也在家，不能回去看，心里还挺酸。
I thought that my son was at home, too, and could not go back to look at it.
有个在湖北恩施的爸爸，在仟吉KenGee星汇维港店，给他儿子买了好大一堆零食，订单备注里写的是：「新年快乐，照顾好自己，虽然不能回来，但是爸爸爱你的心与你同在，❤啵唧！」印象还比较深刻的，是给一个小姑娘送吃的，我把东西放在门卫室，远远站着等她来拿。
A father in Enshi, Hubei Province, bought his son a huge pile of snacks. The note said, "Happy New Year, take care of yourself, although you can't come back, but Dad loves your heart and gives you something to eat."
是个戴眼镜的女生，裹着围巾，走路的时候两只手抱在身前，显得冷。
She was a girl with glasses, wrapped in a scarf, and walked with her hands in front of her, looking cold.
她远远地看到穿着骑手制服的我，头轻微点了一下。
She caught a glimpse of me in the rider's uniform, and gave me a slight head.
这份订单备注里写的是：「我妹一个人被困武汉，给她点了东西。
"My sister was alone in Wuhan and ordered something for her," the note to the order said.
感谢骑手！」「新年好，我很好」武汉内外的人们通过外卖订单，传递出的关切各有不同。
Thanks to the riders! "Happy New Year, I'm OK." People inside and outside Wuhan have different concerns through take-out orders.
通过订单内容和备注，外界得以一窥疫情之下，全国各地对武汉的温情。
Through the order content and remarks, the outside world can peek under the epidemic, Wuhan across the warmth of the country.
人们给武汉朋友送的外卖订单上，备注里有四千余句「注意疫情」、五千多句「武汉加油」……还有一些订单令人忍俊不禁，譬如，在这些日子里，武汉人通过外卖一共收到了上千副扑克牌、象棋、五子棋，超过100笔订单的备注里都写着：「千万别出门！」阿里巴巴的数据还显示，即便身处疫区，许多武汉人仍不忘好好过个年。
Wuhan people sent to friends on the take-out order, notes of more than 4,000 "pay attention to the epidemic", more than 5,000 "Wuhan refueling"... and some orders can not help but laugh at the thousands of orders received by Wuhan people through take-out these days, such as: "Do not go out!"
武汉人之间互相点了一千多笔外卖订单，并留言：「过年好」「新年好」。
Wuhan people between each other more than 1000 take-out orders, and message: "Happy New Year" "Happy New Year."
甚至还有三百多位武汉用户，在给外地朋友点的外卖里备注——「新年好，我很好。
There are even more than 300 Wuhan users, in order to point out to friends in the takeaway remarks - "New Year, I am very good.
」。
. "
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
外卖订单里的武汉：穿越隔离的爱情、亲情与勇气。
Wuhan in the take-out order: across the separation of love, family and courage.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "外卖订单里的武汉：穿越隔离的爱情、亲情与勇气";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉不孤。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan is not alone.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
