北上广：新冠疫情考验超级城市。
North Shengguang: New Crown Epidemic Test Supercity.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
“新冠病毒就是一个阉割版的SARS和加强版的流感”2月7日，上海永嘉路。
"The New Crown Virus is a castrated version of SARS and an enhanced version of influenza" February 7, Shanghai Yongjia Road.
街角店铺墙上有画着蝙蝠的广告，疫情当下，让人触目惊心。
On the corner shop walls were advertisements for bats, and the epidemic was striking.
摄影/雍和北上广：新冠疫情考验超级城市本刊记者/杜玮 杨智杰 苏杰德发于2020.2.17总第935期《中国新闻周刊》800万人返京的压力王海今年的返京之路充满了变数。
Photo / Yong and North Shangguang: New Crown Epidemic Test Supercity Journalist / Tu Wei Yang Jie Jie Jie put pressure on 8 million people to return to Beijing for China Newsweek issue No. 935 of 2020.2.17 Wang Hai's return to Beijing this year is fraught with uncertainty.
2月2日那天，他本该在回京的路上，却接到房东的短信：韩家川村封村，从外地回来的一律不准进村，现在严得很。
On Feb. 2, he was supposed to be on his way back to Beijing when he received a text message from his landlord that anyone returning from outside the village would not be allowed to enter the village.
这条信息让王海感到焦虑。
The news worried Wang Hai.
他是北京一家科技公司的程序员，韩家川村位于北京市海淀区的西北旺镇，出于经济上的考量，他选择住在这里。
Han Jiachuan, a programmer at a Beijing technology company based in the northwestern town of Wangzhen, Haidian District of Beijing, chose to live there for economic reasons.
他所住公寓里的二三百户人，绝大多数都和他一样是外地人。
The vast majority of the two or three hundred families in his flat were strangers like him.
如果提早返京，王海可能会无家可归，成为新冠肺炎疫情下的“北漂”。
If returned to Beijing early, Wang Hai may be homeless, become the new crown pneumonia under the "North drift."
2月7日，他再次给房东打电话才得知，“封村”被解除了，可以回租所，但要自行隔离。
On February 7, he called the landlord again and learned that the "Village Sealing" had been lifted and that he could go back to the rented house but isolate himself.
而因为新冠肺炎，老家道路也封了，王海还是只能暂缓返京。
And because of the new crown pneumonia, home road is also sealed, Wang Hai can only put off returning to Beijing.
新冠病毒疫情让春节假期一再延长，复工日终于来临了：2月6日，中央应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情工作领导小组会议提出，湖北省以外地区要在继续做好科学防控的同时，有序推动恢复正常生产。
With the outbreak of the new coronavirus extending the Spring Festival holiday, the resumption of work day finally came: February 6, the Central Government to respond to the new coronavirus infection pneumonia working group meeting, proposed that outside Hubei Province, while continuing to do a good job in scientific prevention and control, orderly promote the resumption of normal production.
王海只是800多万返京人口中的一员，复工的焦虑摆在每个人的面前。
Wang Hai is just one of more than 8 million people returning to Beijing, and the anxiety of returning to work is before everyone.
800万人如何返京，也是北京市防疫战的焦灼之处。
How to return to Beijing 8 million people, also is the Beijing epidemic prevention war anxious place.
1月31日，北京市政府果断决策：除疫情防控、保障城市运行等必需行业，各企业不得早于2月10日上班。
On January 31, the Beijing municipal government made a firm decision not to start work before February 10, except for the prevention and control of epidemics and the safeguarding of essential industries such as urban operation.
这一决定引发了很多城市陆续跟进这一政策。
This decision has prompted a number of cities to follow suit.
家在江西宜春的郑恺很早就踏上了返京的路途，途中历经了进出站测温、火车上填写旅客信息登记表、出站将信息表投递到收集箱中等一系列过程。
Zheng Kai, who lived in Yichun, Jiangxi, started his journey back to Beijing very early. He went through a series of steps including temperature measurement at the station, filling in passenger information forms on the train, and delivering the information form to the drop-in box.
2月1日晚9点，郑恺抵达了北京西站，提前抵京并不是单位要求，而是为了先做好14天的自我隔离。
February 1 evening at 9: 00, Zheng Kai arrived at the Beijing West Station, not the unit request, but to do a good 14 days of self-isolation.
受疫情影响，北京今年的返京客流与以往有很大不同。
Affected by the epidemic, Beijing's return to Beijing this year is very different from the past.
在2月2日举行的北京市新冠肺炎疫情防控新闻发布会上，北京市交通委副主任容军表示，从数据来看，不会出现集中返京的大客流。
At a press conference on February 2 to prevent and control the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia in Beijing, Yung Jun, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Traffic Committee, said the figures showed there would be no major passenger flow back to Beijing.
春运开始14天，通过铁路、民航出京的超过1000万人，截至2月2日，还有800万人未返京。
More than 10 million people have left Beijing by rail and civil aviation for the first 14 days, and as of February 2, another 8 million had not returned to Beijing.
从订票数据来看，铁路、民航进京客流出现了明显下降。
From the booking data, railway, civil aviation passenger flow into Beijing has shown a significant decline.
从2月2日至2月18日（春运最后一日）铁路进京旅客总人数206.02万人次，同比下降74.27％，民航进京旅客总人数71.42万人次，同比下降73.83％。
From February 2 to February 18 (the last day of the Spring Festival), the total number of rail passenger arrivals in Beijing dropped by 74.27% year on year, and the total number of passenger arrivals to Beijing dropped by 73.83%.
剩余593万余人，将逐步订票回京。
The remaining 5.93 million people will be gradually booked back to Beijing.
虽然可能不会有集中客流，但800万的人流量依然会为北京防疫带来严峻考验。
Although there may not be a concentration of passengers, the flow of 8 million people will still bring Beijing a severe test of epidemic prevention.
北京南站客运质量监督科科长潘仕刚在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时称，目前，铁路部门针对旅客采取的举措依然以测温、填写信息表为主，对于无症状患者的筛查也没有更好的办法。
At present, the measures taken by railway departments are still based on temperature measurement, filling out information forms and there is no better way to screen asymptomatic patients, Pansy, chief of the Beijing South Railway Station Passenger Quality Supervision Section, told China News Weekly.
北京南站的发车线路不途经武汉，对于浙江等疫情相对较为严重地区的返京旅客也暂时没有采取其他特别的措施。
The Beijing South Railway Station does not run through Wuhan, and no other special measures have been taken for returning passengers from areas with relatively serious epidemics, such as Zhejiang Province.
2月6日北京市召开的新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组会议，要求疫情高发区人员暂不返京。
February 6, Beijing held the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention and control work group meeting, asked the high-prevalence area personnel not to return to Beijing.
2月8日，北京市卫健委新闻发言人高小俊表示，可以明确湖北武汉属于疫情高发地区，病例超过千例的其他区域也要格外关注。
On Feb. 8, Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Fitness and Health Commission, said Wuhan, Hubei province, could be identified as a high-risk area with more than 1,000 cases.
中国工程院院士韩德民称，对于湖北返京的人群，要限制人流量，对于在湖北有效隔离期未满的人员，可以考虑拒绝其返京。
Han Demin, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said people returning to Beijing from Hubei province should be restricted and those who had not yet been effectively separated in Hubei Province could be considered for returning to Beijing.
但如何证明返京人员完成了足够时间的自我隔离，这是一个问题，目前监督保障体系还没有建立起来。
But how to prove that the returnees have completed enough time to isolate themselves is a problem, and the supervisory system is not yet in place.
韩德民说，未来两三周对于北京是关键时期，返程要控制好。
Han said the next two to three weeks is a crucial time for Beijing to get back on track.
尤其以湖北为出发地人员的返京，如果控制不好，可能会带来北京疫情的加重。
Especially to Hubei as the departure of personnel back to Beijing, if the control is not good, may bring about the aggravation of the Beijing epidemic.
而在复工后，在办公室等公共场所，也要佩戴口罩。
When you get back to work, wear masks in public places such as offices.
美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风说，除了车站及列车要做好常规消毒，车站工作人员要做好自我防护，如果可能的话，乘客的座位应保有间隔，乘客彼此间保持一定距离。
Zhang style, senior professor of epidemiology and vice president of the UCLA School of Public Health, said station staff should guard themselves against routine station and train disinfection. If possible, passengers should be seated at intervals and kept at arm's length from each other.
对于疫情高发区的乘客，可集中安排在几个车厢，但乘客要做好自我防护。
Passengers in high-prevalence areas can be concentrated in several compartments, but passengers should be prepared to protect themselves.
张作风说，800万人返京，给北京疫情防控带来的压力很大，如果疫情控制不好，还会进而带来医疗资源紧张的问题。
'Eight million people are coming back to Beijing, 'he said.' It's putting a lot of pressure on Beijing's epidemic prevention and control.
在此背景下，医护人员的防护措施尤其要做好，不仅是发热门诊，其他科室医护人员也要戴好口罩、一次性手套等，把院内感染控制好，有助于全局的疫情防控工作。
In this context, health care workers should do a good job of protection, not only fever clinic, other medical staff should also wear masks, disposable gloves, etc. to control hospital infection, contribute to the overall prevention and control of the disease.
张作风分析，以2月2日的数据看，北京市的新增确诊病例是32例，至2月9日，新增病例是11例，新增病例的下降幅度已达66.5%。
According to Zhang style analysis, the number of newly confirmed cases in Beijing was 32 on Feb. 2 and 11 on Feb. 9, a decrease of 66.5%.
而从2月3日到2月7日的五天里，北京市新增病例保持在20个上下新病人的平稳期。
In the five-day period February 3 to February 7, the number of new cases in Beijing remained stable at around 20.
如果在未来的返程期里，仍能保持住这个水平，北京市的疫情将能够有效控制。
If this level is maintained in the coming return period, the epidemic in Beijing will be brought under effective control.
“上海经验”的优势缪晓辉是上海市公共卫生临床咨询专家，曾全程参与2003年上海市和北京小汤山SARS防控。
"Shanghai Experience" advantage Muse Xiaohui is the Shanghai public health clinical consultant, has participated in the entire process in 2003 Shanghai and Beijing Xiaotangshan SARS prevention and control.
在他看来，对此次疫情防控的反应，上海不算走在全国的最前头。
In his view, Shanghai is not at the forefront of the national response to the epidemic.
1月20日，一位56岁的武汉籍女性被确诊为上海第一例新冠病毒感染的肺炎病例。
A 56-year-old Wuhan woman was confirmed as the first case of pneumonia in Shanghai on January 20.
也是这一天，国家卫健委高级专家组组长钟南山接受央视采访，明确了新型冠状病毒会人传人。
Also this day, the senior expert group leader of the National Health Commission Zhong Nan Shan CCTV interview, identified the new coronavirus meeting person-to-person.
上海市卫健委等多部门随即展开一系列行动，每天通报新增和疑似病例，制定相关防控工作方案，派出了第一批135名医疗专家驰援武汉。
The Shanghai Fitness and Health Commission and other departments immediately launched a series of actions, daily notification of new and suspected cases, work out the relevant prevention and control work programme, dispatched the first 135 medical experts to Wuhan.
四天后，1月24日，上海市政府启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应机制。
Four days later, on January 24, the Shanghai municipal government launched the Primary Response Mechanism for Major Public Health Emergencies.
而在此之前，浙江、湖南和北京比上海的行动早了一步。
Before that, Zhejiang, Hunan and Beijing were one step ahead of Shanghai.
“一开始，大家都是蒙的状态。
"At first we were all in a state of obscurity.
”缪晓辉对《中国新闻周刊》说，当时的上海市街头，并没有多少人戴着口罩。
Mr Mui told China News Weekly that not many people were wearing masks in the streets of Shanghai at the time.
1月23日，他在个人微信公众号上发布了一篇新型冠状病毒个人防护的科普文章，不到两个小时，点击量就超过10万，如此大的传播量对他而言非常少见。
On January 23, he published a popular science article on personal protection against the coronavirus on his personal message to the public. Less than two hours later, the number of hits exceeded 100,000.
他理解，这意味着当时大众仍处在认识新冠病毒的初期。
This, he understands, meant that the public was still in the early stages of understanding the new crown virus.
变化大概从三天后开始。
The change will begin in about three days.
缪晓辉感觉，到了1月26、27日，上海市从居委会到各部门的行动，恢复到了2003年非典时期的“备战”状态。
By January 26 and 27, Shanghai's actions from the neighborhood committee to various departments had returned to the "war-readiness" state of the SARS epidemic in 2003.
2月3日，上海长海医院架设3顶军队野战帐篷作为入院通道，患者在此初检、测体温、登记健康信息。
February 3, Shanghai Changhai Hospital set up three military field tents as admission channels, patients here for initial screening, temperature measurement, registration of health information.
摄影/雍和“目前上海的疫情进展，正处于从第一阶段的输入型转变为第二阶段的本地散发型。
Photography / Yong and "At present the epidemic in Shanghai is in the transition from the first phase of input to the second phase of local dissemination.
”复旦大学上海医学院副院长吴凡，也是上海市专家组成员，在她看来，尽管进入了第二阶段，但目前上海新发确诊病例，已经从最高点开始下落。
Wu Fan, vice-dean at Fudan University's Shanghai School of Medicine and a member of the Shanghai panel, said the newly confirmed cases in Shanghai had begun falling from their highest point, despite entering the second phase.
吴凡认为：“从专家组的角度来看，截至目前，上海的疫情防控是有序有力有效的。
"From the expert group's point of view, so far, the epidemic prevention and control in Shanghai is orderly, strong and effective," Wu said.
”	在应对公共卫生事件上，上海可以说“身经百战”。
When it comes to dealing with public health issues, Shanghai can be described as having "a lot of experience."
1988年春季，由于市民食用受到甲肝病毒污染的毛蚶，上海甲肝大暴发，仅3个月内造成了31万多人感染，31人死亡，恐慌情绪笼罩整个上海。
In the spring of 1988, an outbreak of hepatitis A in Shanghai caused more than 310,000 infections and 31 deaths in just three months, causing panic across the city as a result of the consumption of cockles contaminated with hepatitis A.
此后，上海经历了2003年“非典”、2005年禽流感、2009年甲型H1N1流感疫情。
Since then, Shanghai has experienced SARS in 2003, avian influenza in 2005 and influenza A (H1N1) in 2009.
2013年，上海又报告了两例人感染H7N9禽流感，这是在全球首次发现，上海当时启动了市联防联控工作机制和流感大流行应急预案三级响应。
In 2013, Shanghai reported two new human cases of H7N9 avian influenza, the first to be detected globally, when it launched the Joint Municipal Prevention and Control System and a three-tiered response to an influenza pandemic preparedness plan.
在受访专家看来，上海在这些突发疫情中一路摸索过来，也为此次新冠病毒疫情的防控积累了经验。
According to experts interviewed, Shanghai has found its way through these outbreaks and gained experience in the prevention and control of the new crown virus.
缪晓辉告诉《中国新闻周刊》，在此次新冠病毒疫情防控中，上海市公共卫生临床中心（以下简称“上海公卫中心”）发挥了重要作用。
The Shanghai Public Health Clinic Center (hereinafter referred to as "Shanghai Public Health Center") played an important role in the control of the new crown virus, Miao Xiahui told China News Weekly.
2003年“非典”过后，上海市政府为了加强公共卫生体系建设，在距离市中心60多公里外的金山区，建设了专门用于收治传染病患者的三甲医院，即上海公卫中心。
After SARS in 2003, the Shanghai Municipal Government, in an effort to strengthen the public health system, built the Shanghai Public Health Center, a three-year-old hospital specializing in treating patients with infectious diseases, in Jinshan District, more than 60 kilometers away from the city centre.
这项工程被列为了当年政府的1号工程，2004年11月开业。
The project was included in the Government's Project No. 1 of that year and opened in November 2004.
16年后，这里处于此次上海治疗新冠病毒肺炎的一线。
Sixteen years later, here in Shanghai is the first line of treatment for the new crown virus pneumonia.
上海公卫中心的主任朱同玉在接受《新民周刊》采访时提到，12月31日武汉宣布出现不明原因肺炎，1月2日、3日，公卫中心就开展了两整天的实战演练。
Zhu Tongyu, director of the Shanghai Public Health Center, told Xinmin Weekly that on December 31, Wuhan announced an unidentified pneumonia, and on January 2 and 3, the public health center conducted a two-day field drill.
上海按照“集中患者、集中专家、集中资源、集中救治”原则，疑似病例在各家医疗机构集中收治，确诊后全部送往公卫中心进行救治。
In accordance with the principle of concentrating patients, experts, resources and centralized treatment, all suspected cases are admitted centrally in medical institutions, and all of them are sent to public health centers for treatment after diagnosis.
这免去了上海临时修建本地版“小汤山”医院的过程。
This eliminates the need for Shanghai to temporarily build a local version of the "Xiaotangshan" hospital.
同时，公卫中心在医疗条件、医护人员、仪器、药品配备上，都有绝对的优势。
At the same time, the public health center in the medical conditions, medical personnel, equipment, medicine equipped, all have absolute advantages.
该中心有4栋应急病房，327张负压病床。
The Centre has four emergency wards and 327 negative-pressure beds.
这在世界卫生组织的规定中，是抢救“非典”等传染病病人时特别强调的一个重要条件。
This is in the World Health Organization regulations, is the "SARS" and other infectious disease patients to rescue a special emphasis on an important condition.
病房内气压低，被污染过的空气不会泄漏出去，而是专门排放，可以减少院内感染和病毒的传播。
The air inside the ward is low and the contaminated air does not leak out, but is discharged specifically to reduce nosocomial infections and transmission of the virus.
上海市公共卫生临床中心教授、上海市专家组成员卢洪洲告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“从全国来看，我们有最多的负压病房。
"We have the largest number of negative pressure wards in the country," Shanghai Public Health Clinic Professor and member of the Shanghai Expert Group, Lu Hongzhou, told China News Weekly.
2004年建成以来，我们一直有这个战略储备。
Since its establishment in 2004, we have maintained this strategic reserve.
”朱同玉还提到，如果上海的确诊人数增至150例，上海公卫中心就要启动临时病房的开建，草皮和图纸都已准备好，预留了地面600张床，需要建设时随时开始。
Zhu also mentioned that if the number of confirmed cases in Shanghai rises to 150, the Shanghai Public Health Center will start construction of temporary wards, turf and drawings are ready, and 600 beds are set aside for construction at any time.
上海市2月9日新闻发布会透露，上海市公卫中心目前在院收治了250例新冠肺炎确诊患者，其中10例重症，10例危重症，数量早已超过150例。
The Shanghai Public Health Center has admitted 250 cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia, 10 of them critically and 10 critically, more than 150 of them already, according to a press conference on February 9.
尽管官方尚未宣布启动临时病房建设，但近日，一张公告的照片出现在网上。
Although officials have yet to announce plans to open a temporary ward, a photo of the announcement appeared online recently.
公告显示，2月4日，上海公卫中心向闵行区浦江镇人民政府发函，提到“因疫情严重，我中心受上海市委市政府委托，组织建设‘上海市公共卫生临床中心应急救治临时医疗用房项目’”。
On February 4, the Shanghai Public Health Center sent a letter to the people's government of Pujiang town, Minhang district, saying, "Because of the serious epidemic, our center has been commissioned by the Shanghai Municipal Government to organize the construction of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center's Temporary Medical Housing Project."
除此之外，卢洪洲认为，“非典”之后，上海在国内最早实行三级防护网络，即市、区（县）、社区医院防控体系，在管理上，为突发传染病的防控打下了基础。
In addition, Luhong Zhou believes that after SARS, Shanghai first implemented the three-tier protection network in China, namely the city, district (county), community hospital control system, in management, laid the foundation for the prevention and control of sudden infectious diseases.
吴凡解释，三级防护网络，平日老百姓不会有特别感觉，但在当下的非常时期，这个历经多年努力构建起的“大网”就发挥作用了，“大量疑似病例、轻症患者就在基层，这是更庞大的数量，就靠三级网络来防控。
Wu explained that the three levels of protection network, ordinary people do not have special feelings, but in the current emergency, after many years of hard-built "big network" work, "a large number of suspected cases, light cases of patients at the grass-roots level, this is a larger number, rely on the tertiary network to control.
”她对《文汇报》表示。
"She told the paper.
社区卫生服务中心在此次疫情防控中，被放在了重要的位置。
The community health service center has been put in an important position in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
张阳是杨浦区一个社区卫生服务中心的公共卫生医师，过去半个多月，他每天穿梭在小区内，开展对重点地区来沪人员上门走访、对集中隔离人员宣教等工作。
Zhang Yang, a public health doctor at a community health service center in Yangpu district, has spent more than half a month shuttling around the district every day, carrying out house-to-door visits to key areas and educating people in concentrated isolation.
此次，上海市公布了110家设置发热门诊的医疗机构，覆盖全市16个区，包括三级、二级医院和社区卫生服务中心。
This time, Shanghai announced 110 medical facilities with fever clinics, covering 16 districts of the city, including level-III, level-II hospitals and community health centres.
社区卫生服务中心，需要与街道居委联动，摸排发现疑似病例。
Community health service center, need to link up with street neighborhood committee, map to find a suspected case.
防控下沉到社区，上海还有一个优势。
Prevention and control sink into the community, Shanghai also has an advantage.
“上海率先培养全科医生，全科医学系招生前就明确，毕业后进入社区工作，这些全科医生经过上海复旦、交通、二军医大等著名高等医科院校5年正规培训，并在三甲医院实习。
"Shanghai has taken the lead in training general practitioners, who have entered the community after their graduation. They have gone through five years of formal training at prestigious medical colleges, such as Shanghai Fudan, Transport and Military Medical University, and worked as interns at Three-A Hospital.
可想而知，这些全科医生对传染病防范、面临重大公共卫生突发事件的鉴别能力，都会比曾经的地段医院（上海社区卫生服务中心的前身）强很多。
It is conceivable that these general practitioners would be much better at preventing infectious diseases and facing major public health emergencies than the former district hospital, the predecessor of the Shanghai Community Health Service Center.
”缪晓辉说。
"said Muse.
他解释，在全科医生的教材中，第一堂课就是讲流行病学调查。
He explained that the first lesson in the general practitioner's textbook was an epidemiological investigation.
全科医生在上门走访和出诊时，对重点排查是否从疫区来沪、如何处理应急情况等，都会具备较丰富的经验。
General practitioners in the home visits and visits, the key to check whether from the epidemic area to Shanghai, how to deal with emergency situations, will have more extensive experience.
不同于武汉，在病例相对较少的上海，缪晓辉认为，可以充分利用全科医生，通过分级诊疗的方式防控疫情。
Unlike Wuhan, in Shanghai, where the number of cases is relatively small, Miao Xiaohui believes that general practitioners can be fully utilized to prevent and control the epidemic through hierarchical diagnosis and treatment.
经历了多次突发公共卫生事件的上海，另一个副产品是，培养了上海人更为敏感和警惕的神经。
Another by-product of the public health emergency in Shanghai has been the development of more sensitive and vigilant nerves.
目前，同样面临返程高峰和全面复工，从微博的热搜显示，上海人要比北京、广州、深圳人显得更为焦虑。
At present, also facing the return peak and full resumption of work, from Weibo hot search shows that Shanghai people than Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen people appear more anxious.
对于返沪人员，上海医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏并没有上海式的含蓄细腻，他直率地说，“不管你的身份是老板、员工还是学生，都请配合好我们，返回上海后自觉在家‘闷’两个星期。
For those who return to Shanghai, Zhang Wenhong, head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group and director of the Infection Department of Huashan Hospital, has no Shanghai-style subtlety. He said bluntly, "Whether you are a boss, an employee or a student, cooperate with us and be at home for two weeks.
等把发病的人都找出来后，其余人就安全了，这个策略叫‘闷’，需要你们每个人都作贡献。
The rest of you will be safe after you find the person who has the disease. This strategy is called 'boredom' and requires each of you to contribute.
”广东的“非典”后效应截至2月10日，广东省新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例1151人。
"Guangdong's Post-SARS Effect As of February 10, 1,151 people had been diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia in Guangdong Province.
在重灾区湖北之外，广东省排名第二，与浙江、河南同为三个确诊病例破千的省份。
Hubei in the hardest-hit areas, Guangdong Province ranked second, with Zhejiang, Henan as the three confirmed cases of 1,000 provinces.
“广东和湖北人员往来密切，每天通过高铁和飞机交流的人员有数万人，因此必定带来输入病人，带来本地的发病风险。
"Guangdong and Hubei have close contact with each other and there are tens of thousands of people communicating through high-speed rail and air every day.
”广东省疾病预防控制中心在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时表示， 广东是人口流动大省，人口流动会带来传染病的输入风险。
Guangdong is a province with large population movements, which can bring in the risk of infectious diseases, the Guangdong Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told China News Weekly.
与这次的输入性病例不同，17年前，“非典”疫情在广东最早暴发，给广东留下了伤痛的回忆和深刻的教训。
Unlike this imported case, 17 years ago, the earliest outbreak of SARS occurred in Guangdong, leaving Guangdong with painful memories and profound lessons.
17年后，当新型冠状病毒来袭，广东严阵以待。
Seventeen years later, when the new coronavirus hit, Guangdong stood ready.
因而，早在2019年12月31日，广东省疾控制中心就对武汉疫情启动了内部应急响应准备机制，做好物资储备；1月3日，在全省对不明原因肺炎进行强化监测和动物市场环境监测；1月14日，广东发现疑似病例后，不仅成立了领导小组，还成立了以钟南山院士为总顾问的专家小组；1月23日，广东率先在全国启动了重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Thus, as early as December 31, 2019, the Guangdong Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched an internal emergency response preparedness mechanism for the Wuhan epidemic, and set up a material reserve. On January 3, 2008, Guangdong set up the Leading Group and a Team of Experts with Academician Zhong Nan Shan as its general adviser.
不过，即使提前准备，各方还是低估了病毒的传染能力。
However, even if prepared in advance, each side underestimated the virus's ability to transmit the virus.
广州市第八人民医院（下称广州八院）感染病中心ICU主任李粤平告诉《中国新闻周刊》：“新型冠状病毒狡猾而不凶狠，SARS是凶狠而不狡猾。
"The new coronavirus is cunning but not ferocious," Li Yuping, director of ICU at Guangzhou Eight People's Hospital, told China News Weekly.
”狡猾的病毒迅速在广东扩散开来，社会总动员再次启动。
The cunning virus quickly spread in Guangdong and social mobilization was restarted.
“非典”之后，广东对公共卫生体系与社会响应进行了反思、重建和补短板，投入大量财政资金提升医院能力、完善疾控功能，这一切如今面临严峻疫情的“质量验收”。
After SARS, Guangdong rethought, rebuilt and shortened the public health system and social response, invested a large amount of financial resources to improve hospital capacity and improve disease control function, all of which now face severe epidemic "quality acceptance."
“最开始没预料到会这么严重。
"I didn't expect it to be this serious at first.
”李粤平说，作为经历过“非典”防控的医生，她虽然听说了这个病毒，但没有想到会这么严重。
As a doctor who has experienced SARS prevention and control, Li said she had heard about the virus but had not expected it to be so serious.
广州八院始建于1921年，以传染病防治及肝病综合治疗为特色。
It was founded in 1921 and is characterized by the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases and the comprehensive treatment of liver diseases.
2003年“非典”期间，该院是广州市收治“非典”病人最多、时间最长的医院，总共收治了确诊和疑似病例413例（其中确诊265例），占广州市总确诊病例的近四分之一。
During the SARS epidemic in 2003, the hospital was the longest and most frequently treated SARS patient in Guangzhou, receiving a total of 413 confirmed and suspected cases (265 of which were confirmed), accounting for nearly a quarter of all confirmed cases in Guangzhou.
其中收治的第一、第二代病人较多，包括转过两次院、传染了120多人的周姓“毒王”。
Among them, more patients in the first and second generation, including two hospitals, infected more than 120 people infected with the surname "King poison."
“非典”时期，广州八院面临巨大的挑战，病房、设备、资源都比较落后。
During the SARS period, the Eight Hospitals in Guangzhou faced great challenges, and their wards, equipment and resources were rather backward.
“非典”第二年，广州市政府迅速加强了传染病的医疗资源的建设，在白云区嘉禾开辟广州八院新院区，一期工程投资4.1亿元，二期建成后总投资达到10亿元。
In the second year of SARS, the Guangzhou Municipal Government quickly strengthened the construction of medical resources for infectious diseases, and opened a new courtyard in Jiahe, Baiyun District, with an investment of 410 million yuan for the first phase and 1 billion yuan for the second phase.
新院区隔壁就是广州市疾病预防控制中心。
Next to the new courtyard is the Guangzhou Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
广东出现新型冠状病毒疑似病例时，李粤平还在老院区工作，随着病人数量的快速增长，她被调到新院区。
When a new case of coronavirus was suspected in Guangdong Province, Li Yue Ping was still working in the old hospital area and was transferred to the new compound as the number of patients increased rapidly.
“基本上是以一天一层楼的速度来收病人的”，李粤平介绍，“疑似的和密切观察的病例，一个人需要住一间病房。
"Patients are basically admitted at the rate of one floor a day," Li said. "Suspected and closely observed cases require a person to stay in a ward.
一般来说，一个病区50张床左右，大概也就十几间病房，十几个人就占用了一层楼。
Generally speaking, a sick area of about 50 beds, about a dozen wards, a dozen people occupy a floor.
”而在“非典”时期，第八医院只有一座住院楼，肝炎、艾滋病和一些杂病都住在其中，隔离条件不理想。
In the SARS era, there was only one hospital building in the Eighth Hospital, where hepatitis, AIDS and some miscellaneous diseases lived in substandard conditions.
设备更不齐全，没有正规的ICU重症监护室，没有中央供氧，更不要说负压病房。
More inadequate equipment, no formal ICU intensive care unit, no central oxygen supply, let alone negative pressure ward.
截至2月10日，广州市共确诊病例313位，病人数量略低于深圳，大约占广东省确诊病例的27%，广州市确诊的病例大部分都安置在广州八院。
As of February 10, 313 cases had been confirmed in Guangzhou. The number of patients was slightly lower than Shenzhen, accounting for about 27 percent of the confirmed cases in Guangdong Province.
对于这次发源于武汉的新型冠状病毒，和全国其他地方一样，在1月20日之前，广东也没有对病毒的严重性作出认定，但前期的防控重点放在了加强对医护人员的防护上。
The new coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, like the rest of the country, was not identified as serious until January 20, but prevention and control in the early stages was focused on strengthening the protection of medical personnel.
李粤平介绍，这是汲取了非典的教训，包括外科、口腔科等所有的医生都要做好普遍防护。
Li said the lessons learned from SARS, including surgery, stomatology and all doctors to do a good job of universal protection.
1月10日至14日之间，广州市卫生系统还专门安排人到各区的医院做督导，检查医院的发热门诊，重点检查医护有没有戴好口罩和手套。
Between January 10 and 14, Guangzhou's health system specially arranged visits to hospitals in all districts for supervision and check-up of the hospital's fever clinics, with special emphasis on medical care for wearing masks and gloves.
每家医院都要求所有员工参加培训，而且要求全部考核过关。
Every hospital requires all staff to take part in the training, and requires full clearance.
“2003年，医护人员没有什么防护，就是简单的棉布口罩，一般的隔离衣、手套和帽子。
"In 2003, there was little protection for paramedics, which were simple cotton masks, general paraphernalia, gloves and hats.
”广州八院心内科副主任医师童裕维说，相比于“非典”，这次疫情医护人员的防护要好很多，更重要的是，“这次很快就分离出来毒株，传播途径也比较清楚，防护起来针对性强，就没有那么害怕。
Tong Yuwei, deputy director of cardiology at Guangzhou's eight hospitals, said the epidemic's medical staff were much better protected against SARS and, more importantly, that "the strain was quickly isolated and spread more clearly, with better protection and less fear.
”不过，即使有过“非典”期间的经验，这次新型冠状病毒还是让医生感到非常棘手。
But even after what happened during SARS, the new coronavirus is a thorny one for doctors.
控制传染病有三板斧，一是控制传染源，二是切断传播途径，三是保护易感人群。
There are three main ways to control infectious diseases, one is to control the source of infection, the other is to cut off transmission routes.
“现在来看，我觉得控制传染源是最难的，”李粤平说，这次病毒太狡猾了，“病毒潜伏期长，不会安稳地在上呼吸道里待着，我们发现一些病情好转的病例，第一次检测达到解除标准后，又变成阳性的。
"From now on, I think controlling the source of infection is the most difficult," said Li, who said the virus was too cunning. "The virus has a long incubation period and won't stay in the upper respiratory tract.
此外，原来说潜伏期两周，现在也发现有潜伏期三周。
In addition, the incubation period was originally two weeks and now a latency period of three weeks has been found.
还有一些上呼吸道感染病例，怎么检测都是阴性，突然加重了之后，检测发现下呼吸道病原是阳性的。
There are also some cases of upper respiratory tract infection, how to test negative, suddenly aggravated after the detection of the lower respiratory tract pathogen is positive.
”不过，虽然新型冠状病毒来势汹汹，但在李粤平看来，这个病毒更像是大号流感，不必那么惊慌。
However, although the new coronavirus is menacing, in Li's view it is more like a large influenza and should not be so alarmed.
截至2月8日，广州八院已经有28个病例出院，他们从发病到出院的时间，基本在两周以内，年龄大都在65岁以下，大部分人是轻症患者。
As of February 8, 28 cases had been discharged from the eight hospitals in Guangzhou. They had been discharged from the hospital for a period of less than two weeks, mostly under the age of 65. Most of them were mild cases.
“对比‘非典’， 其病死率在10%左右，而新型冠状病毒的病死率是2.1%左右，流感的病死率大概是0.1%。
"In contrast to SARS, the mortality rate is about 10 percent, while that of the new coronavirus is about 2.1 percent, and the mortality rate for influenza is about 0.1 percent
”经过临床观察和分析后，李粤平认为，新冠病毒就是一个“阉割版的SARS和加强版的流感”。
After clinical observation and analysis, Li believes the new crown virus is a "castration version of SARS and an enhanced version of influenza."
但对危重病人，医生们不敢轻敌。
But for the critically ill, doctors dare not make light of their enemies.
目前，很多突然恶化的案例发生在武汉。
At present, many cases of sudden deterioration occurred in Wuhan.
李粤平认为，这是因为武汉病人太多，医护精力有限，医疗资源缺乏所致。
This is because Wuhan has too many patients, limited medical care and a lack of medical resources, he said.
病人住在隔离病区里，进去一次要穿戴很多防护服，资源短缺限制了医生经常近距离观察病人，“很多时候是通过视频来观察，这样医生有可能就发现不了病人缺氧等问题。
The patient lives in a quarantined area and goes in wearing many protective clothing at a time. The shortage of resources limits the ability of doctors to observe patients closely, "often via video, so that they may not be able to detect problems such as lack of oxygen."
”据李粤平介绍，在广州八院，每隔几个小时就会有医护人员去床边探视病人。
At the Eight Hospitals in Guangzhou, medical staff visit patients by the bedside every few hours, according to Li.
“我们到床旁去跟病人聊天，看他们的呼吸有多少次、脖子是不是有三凹征，通过胸廓起伏看他说话是否费力，病人喘着气跟你说话的状态，不到病床是观察不到的。
"We go over to the bed and talk to the patient, see how many times they breathe, if there are three notches in their necks, if he is struggling to speak through the thoracic gallery, where the patient is panting to speak to you, and cannot be observed until the bed is full.
”在广东，以社会动员的方式弥补卫生资源的不足，扩大防控战线，也被当做“非典”后的重要经验。
In Guangdong, making up for the lack of health resources through social mobilization and expanding the front line of prevention and control have also been regarded as important experiences after SARS.
社会公众的应对心态也更从容。
The public's response mentality is also more leisurely.
“非典”时期，广东先后出现了“抢醋”“抢盐”“抢药”的恐慌状况。
"SARS" period, Guangdong successively appeared "jealous", "salt" and "snatch medicine" panic situation.
而这一次，随着信息透明度的大力提升，公众心态明显更加平稳。
And this time, with information transparency greatly enhanced, the public mentality is obviously smoother.
李粤平坦言，此次疫情防控，“社会力量和个人力量的参与，明显比‘非典’的时候好了很多。
Li Yue flat, this epidemic prevention and control, "social forces and personal forces involved, clearly better than when 'SARS'.
”（应受访者要求，文中王海、郑恺为化名）值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼武汉之战：一场史无前例的超级行动图片故事| 方舱医院恒大全面实施网上购房，在家没事赚现金VR看房亲身体验，恒大全国楼盘即将特大优惠点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情 。
At the request of the interviewee, Wang Hai and Zheng Caesar are on duty editor: Wuhan battle: an unprecedented super-operation photo story & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北上广：新冠疫情考验超级城市。
North Shengguang: New Crown Epidemic Test Supercity.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "北上广：新冠疫情考验超级城市";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“新冠病毒就是一个阉割版的SARS和加强版的流感”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉会战：一场史无前例的超级行动',。
Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉会战：一场史无前例的超级行动',。
Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '图片故事｜方舱医院',。
picture + g + g + g + g + g + g + g + g + g Hospital has been service.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
