守护白衣天使，每个人都献出了自己的力量。
The guardian of the angel, each gave his own strength.
浣浣。
It will be fresh.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
同力协契 共克时艰武汉“封城”已三周，新冠肺炎全国感染人数还在持续上涨。
Wuhan "closed the city" has been three weeks, the new crown pneumonia nationwide infection number continues to rise.
所有人都在期待拐点的到来，无数白衣天使依旧坚守在抗击疫情第一线，一刻不敢松懈。
Everyone is looking forward to the arrival of the inflection point, countless angels still clung to the front line of the fight against the epidemic, dare not relax.
社会各界也在通过各种方式参与到这场没有硝烟的抗疫保卫战里。
All sectors of the community are also through various ways to participate in the battle against the epidemic without smoke.
这期间，温暖善良频频显现。
During this time, warm and kind frequently appeared.
病毒无情，人有情。
Viruses are merciless. People love.
“脱下防护服已近虚脱”在湖北防控疫情一线，无数医护人员不分昼夜地连续奋战，他们全副武装，由于长时间穿戴着口罩、护目镜、防护服、隔离衣、手套等多层防护，再加上负压病房空调的温度，医护人员几乎都是热得额头上汗如雨注。
"Taking off protective clothing is close to collapse" In Hubei province on the front line of the epidemic, countless medical personnel are fighting day and night, heavily armed, with many layers of protection such as masks, goggles, protective clothing, protective clothing, gloves, etc., plus the air conditioning temperature in the negative pressure ward, almost all medical personnel sweat on their foreheads.
在这样高强度的身体透支下，出病房的时候，不少人感觉“脱下防护服就像脱了一层皮”，身体的水分不断流失，已近虚脱。
In such a high-intensity body overdraft, out of the ward, many people feel "take off the protective clothing like a layer of skin", the body's moisture loss, has nearly collapsed.
前不久钟南山团队发布的关于老年人新型冠状病毒肺炎的防范指引中也建议大家，注意合理的饮食习惯，均衡膳食，勤喝水，保持健康的生活状态，提高抵抗力。
Recently, the Zhong Nan Shan team issued a set of guidelines on the prevention of coronavirus pneumonia in the elderly. They also recommended that we observe proper eating habits, eat a balanced diet, drink plenty of water, maintain healthy living conditions and improve resistance.
因此很多医护人员也在不停地提醒一线同行：保持健康的生活状态，适当补充水分，否则很容易虚脱，反而耽误救治病人。
As a result, many health care workers are constantly reminding their frontline counterparts to stay healthy and replenish their water supply, otherwise they will easily collapse and delay treatment.
短缺的医护人员，紧缺的防疫物资，每一条关于武汉的新闻都牵动着大家的心，而当下最迫切要解决的问题就是：如何支援武汉？如何支援医护人员？“你守护大家，我守护你”疫情爆发后，各行各业都伸出了捐助之手，捐款、捐献医疗物资、提供生活物资等，为抗疫防病毒贡献着自己的力量。
The shortage of medical personnel, the shortage of epidemic prevention materials, every news about Wuhan affect our hearts and minds, and the most urgent question to be solved is: how to support Wuhan? How to support medical personnel? "You guard you, I guard you" outbreak, all walks of life extended a helping hand, donated medical supplies, supplies and other materials to the fight against the epidemic.
阿里巴巴设立10亿元医疗物资供给专项基金；美的集团向武汉火神山医院、武汉雷神山医院捐献所需全部家电；顺丰速运开通救援物资免费公益运输通道；武汉当地的康师傅员工自发组织抗疫救援活动，为武汉各大医院运送生活所需食用物资，保障医务人员的安全饮水。
Ali Baba set up a special fund of 1 billion yuan for the supply of medical materials.The group donated all the household appliances needed to Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital and Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital.
在武汉“封城”的情况下，武汉当地康师傅员工自发通过各种公开渠道和个人社会资源来汇整医院信息，向当地各大医院打去电话，确认急需哪些物资援助，做好需求统计。
Wuhan "closure" of the situation, Wuhan local staff through various open channels and personal social resources to complete the hospital information, to the major local hospitals to confirm the urgent need for material assistance, demand statistics.
同时紧急召开抗疫支援行动协调会，商议物资捐赠计划和实施方案。
Meanwhile, an emergency coordination meeting was convened to discuss the material donation plan and implementation plan.
当地员工收到消息后，也纷纷主动放弃休假，申请加入到这次抗疫支援特别行动中来。
When local staff received the news, they also volunteered to give up their holidays and apply to join the special anti-epidemic operations.
康师傅湖北行销公司湖北市场处主管郝海波，第一时间就站出来，与志愿者车队一同从前期联络医院的需求，资料整理，到发货以及配送，不停为支援行动忙碌着。
Hao Haibo, head of Hubei Marketing Company, a marketing company in Hubei province, first came out and worked with the volunteer team to contact the hospital in the early stages, from documentation to delivery and distribution.
他作为医护人员的家属，特别理解在疫情迅速发展变化下，医护人员的辛劳和不易，也明白在医院这种高危且人群密集场所，桶装水或水杯会长时间暴露在空气当中，容易受到飞沫感染，而即开即饮的包装水则大大降低了交叉感染的几率，可以让医护人员们有一个更安心的饮水环境。
As a family member of the medical staff, he particularly understands the hard work and difficulty of medical staff during the rapid development of the epidemic. He also understands that in high-risk and densely populated places like hospitals, buckets of water or water cups can be exposed to droplets for long periods of time, while ready-to-drink packaged water greatly reduces the risk of cross-infection and gives health workers a safer drinking environment.
但其实，无论是在家休息还是在外奔波，都要注意合理的生活习惯和个人防护措施。
But in fact, no matter at home or travel around, we should pay attention to reasonable living habits and personal protective measures.
日常生活中安心且健康的水源也是必不可少的。
A safe and healthy source of water for daily life is also essential.
近日，生态环境部出台了《应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情应急监测方案》，要求在疫情防控期间加强饮用水水源地水质预警监测，增加余氯和生物毒性等疫情防控特征指标的监测。
Recently, the Ministry of Ecology and Environment issued the Emergency Monitoring Program for Response to the Novel Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia, which calls for the strengthening of early warning and monitoring of the quality of drinking water sources during the period of epidemic prevention and control, and for the monitoring of disease prevention and control indicators such as residual chlorine and biotoxicity.
虽然在水中添加氯可起到杀菌及去除水中微生物的作用，但想更彻底地消除余氯，日常烧水时就需让水多沸腾几分钟。
Adding chlorine to water can kill bacteria and remove microorganisms from the water, but to get rid of residual chlorine more thoroughly requires boiling water for a few more minutes on a daily basis.
如果想要追求更安心的饮水方式，也可直接选择经过RO反渗透技术过滤的包装水，能有效过滤掉水中重金属和病毒，这类包装水通常符合国家HACCP体系认证，饮用起来更加方便、安心。
If you want to pursue more secure drinking water, you can also directly choose RO reverse osmosis filter packaging water, can effectively filter out heavy metals and viruses in water, such packaging water is usually in line with the national HACCP certification system, more convenient to drink and more comfortable.
虽然疫情还在继续，但不乏温暖的故事让我们相信胜利的曙光就在前方。
Although the epidemic continues, there are many warm stories that lead us to believe that the dawn of victory lies ahead.
不管是在前线与疫魔做斗争的白衣天使们，还是坚守在一线的各行各业人员，以及承担起社会责任的企业们，大家都希望尽绵薄之力，为疫情笼罩的寒冬带来一丝温暖。
Whether it's the white angels fighting the plague on the front line, the people on the front line, and the corporate social responsibility, we all want to do our best to bring a little warmth to the winter.
并都相信，只要我们齐心合力，各尽所长，灾难就能抗过来，春天就会到来。
And all believe that as long as we work together to do their best, the disaster can withstand, spring will come.
本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场。
This article only represents the author's point of view, does not represent this print position.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
守护白衣天使，每个人都献出了自己的力量。
The guardian of the angel, each gave his own strength.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "守护白衣天使，每个人都献出了自己的力量";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Guardian of the White Angels, all of whom gave their share of service;;
var msg_desc = "同力协契 共克时艰";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
