一群00后留学生的捐赠行动：“我们和真实的社会接上了”。
A group of students after the donation action: "We are connected with the real society."
王宇。
Wang Yu.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
新冠疫情爆发后，许多人自发组建捐赠团体。
After the outbreak of the New Crown, many people spontaneously formed donor groups.
一些在新加坡读书的中国留学生加入了这个行列，他们大多是00后，捐赠物资价值约13万元，在大量成绩漂亮的团体中并不起眼。
Some Chinese students studying in Singapore joined the group, most of them 100 years later, donating material worth about $130,000, which is not unusual in a large number of high-performing groups.
但这持续六天的捐赠，成为了他们人生中第一次公民实践行动。
But the donation, which lasted six days, became the first act of civic action in their lives.
···············❶疫情改变了一切黄磊珂特意换上一套灰色格子西服，打一条墨蓝色领带，坐进东方卫视《这就是中国》录制现场的观众席。
The disease changed everything. Huang Lei put on a grey checked suit and a blue-and-ink tie and sat in the audience of "This is China" on Eastern TV.
他今年20岁，刚结束新加坡高考，为了与一位喜欢的嘉宾见面，专门从家乡广州赶到上海。
He is 20 years old and has just finished the Singapore College Entrance Examination. He traveled to Shanghai from his hometown of Guangzhou to meet a favorite guest.
6个小时的录制结束后，黄磊珂走出演播厅，打开手机，上面突然弹出国家领导人“对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情作出重要指示”的新闻，他觉得事态严重，抬头发现南京西路上所有人都戴上了口罩。
After six hours of recording, Huang left the studio and turned on his cell phone, suddenly popping up the news that the country's leader had given "important instructions on pneumonia for a new coronavirus infection." He felt that push had come to shove, and looked up to see that all the people on Nanjing Road West were wearing masks.
没有手机的6个小时里，危机仿佛骤然降临。
For six hours without a cell phone, the crisis seemed to come suddenly.
“被吓到了。
"" I was scared.
”那天是1月20日。
"It was January 20.
第二天，黄磊珂一大早就去买口罩，繁华的上海市中心，他跑了七八家药店、便利店，已经找不到一只。
The next day, Huang Lei early to buy masks, bustling downtown Shanghai, he ran seven or eight pharmacies, convenience stores, has not found one.
黄磊珂回到家乡广州，南方生活仍然如常，口罩存货充足，一个N95口罩8块钱。
She returned to her hometown of Guangzhou, where life in the south remains as usual, with a well-stocked mask and a $8 N95 mask.
他看到相熟的小卖部老板正拆一整箱口罩，一箱500个，4000块钱。
He saw the familiar commissary owner removing a whole case of face masks, a box of 500, 4,000 dollars.
气氛在除夕晚上再度紧张起来。
The atmosphere became tense again on New Year's Eve.
家族20多人聚在一起吃年夜饭，在越秀区中医院工作的舅妈缺席了。
More than 20 family members gathered for New Year's Eve dinner, and aunt working in Yuexiu District Chinese Hospital was absent.
广州的南方医院开始集结支援武汉的医生团队，他注意到支援队伍里有军医是大校军衔，那意味着从业时间超过30年。
The Southern Hospital in Guangzhou began to assemble a team of doctors to support Wuhan. He noted that the support team included military doctors with the rank of senior colonel, which meant working for more than 30 years.
“别人都在吃年夜饭，他们却统一穿着迷彩服，背上背包出征。
"Everyone else is eating New Year's Eve dinner, but they wear camouflage uniform, backpack to go out.
”黄磊珂出生在军人家庭，从曾祖父到父亲，四代人从军。
Born into a military family, from her great-grandfather to her father, Huang Lei joined the army four generations later.
父亲1985年参加老山轮战也就是20岁的年龄。
My father was twenty years old when he took part in the Shiraz Battle in 1985.
南方医院出征的医生，和当年上战场的父亲年龄相仿。
Southern hospitals had doctors of the same age as their fathers who had gone to war.
那是他第一次感到远在武汉的疫情与自己有关。
It was the first time he felt that the epidemic in Wuhan had anything to do with him.
但很快，事情超出了他的认知，到处都是医院募资的消息。
But soon it was beyond his knowledge, and there was news everywhere about hospital fundraising.
“我当时根本就想不到会有物资短缺这种事情。
"I never thought there would be a shortage of supplies.
”采访中，他仍是难以置信的语气。
In the interview, his tone was still implausible.
父亲和舅舅在年夜饭的饭桌上谈论起医生缺少防护服、护目镜和N95口罩。
At the dinner table, my father and uncle talked about the doctor's lack of protective clothing, goggles and N95 masks.
他觉得难以理解，上战场的战士怎么可能会缺少弹药和粮草？他们告诉他，医院平时并不储备这些物资，购买需要通过卫健委集中招标，眼下哪有时间去走那个流程？黄磊珂想买一点儿口罩捐出去。
He found it difficult to understand how soldiers on the battlefield could be short of ammunition and grass? They told him that the hospital did not usually store such supplies.
之前看到疫情消息，他留了个心眼儿，问楼下小卖部的老板要到了供货商的微信。
When he saw the news of the outbreak, he left a message and asked the owner of the shop downstairs to get a message from the supplier.
但就算把自己的压岁钱和零用钱全都买成口罩，也只能凑一两箱。
But even if you buy your New Year's money and pocket money into masks, you can only scrape together a box or two.
也许可以找同学朋友凑一凑，多买些，一起寄过去？他在新加坡留学，2019年11月刚从淡马锡初级学院毕业，1月24日晚上8点，他在新加坡高二年级毕业群里发布新群聊二维码，发起第一次召集，“各位同学大家好！这个群聊以资金的形式来远程支援武汉。
He studied in Singapore, graduated from Temasek Junior College in November 2019, and on January 24th, at 8 pm, he launched a new two-dimensional chat in Singapore's sophomore class to launch his first call, "Hello everyone! This group chat in the form of money to remote support Wuhan.
”。
"
黄磊珂，20岁，新加坡淡马锡初级学院毕业生。
Huang Lei-ke, a 20-year-old graduate of Singapore's Temasek Junior College.
看到群里的消息时，刘彦汝家里十口人的年夜饭刚结束。
When I saw the news in the group, Liu Yanyu's family had just finished the dinner for ten people.
和黄磊珂一样，刘彦汝也结束了新加坡高考，从莱佛士初级学院毕业。
Like Huang Lei-ke, Liu Yanyu also finished his Singapore college entrance examination and graduated from Leifus Junior College.
除夕夜，在厦门的家中，她窝在沙发上刷微博，看到武汉各大医院向社会募资的消息。
On New Year's Eve, at her home in Xiamen, she nestled on the sofa and saw the news that Wuhan major hospitals were raising funds from society.
刘彦汝把医院的行为理解为对疫情严重程度的暗示。
Liu interpreted the hospital's behavior as an indication of the severity of the outbreak.
微博热搜几乎全是关于武汉的消息，刘彦汝觉得没办法置身事外。
Weibo hot search almost all about Wuhan news, Liu Yan Ru felt unable to stay out of the way.
正好在群里看到黄磊珂的提议，她主动联系了这个陌生人，简单寒暄后，她询问是否可以将这个群聊二维码转进另一个留学生大群。
In the group saw Huang Lei's proposal, she contact the stranger, after a brief greeting, she asked if this group chat two-dimensional code into another large group of foreign students.
此外，她还提醒黄磊珂，为了增加募资的公信力，应该细化善款的用途信息，包括货源厂家姓名，发货方式。
In addition, she reminded Huang Lei that in order to increase the credibility of fund-raising, should be detailed information on the use of the money, including the name of the source manufacturers, the mode of delivery.
供货商还没有回复消息，黄磊珂正为货源焦虑。
The supplier had not yet replied, and Huang Lei-ke was worried about the source.
此前，他通过在地方慈善总会担任名誉会长的亲戚咨询过究竟是捐物还是捐钱，对方说可以捐款，由机构统一购买。
Previously, he had asked relatives who were honorary presidents of local charities about whether to donate or donate money, saying they could donate and be bought by the organization.
他告诉刘彦汝，如果找不到货源，就直接捐款。
He told Liu Yan Ru to donate directly if he could not find the source of the goods.
但刘彦汝提醒他，“个人拙见，能实物就实物。
But Liu Yanu reminded him that "personal ineptitude can be in kind.
”黄磊珂回复一个“捂脸”表情，“懂的，哈哈哈哈。
Huang Lei replied with a face-covering expression, "Yes, Ha-ha-ha.
”黄磊珂把第二版召集文案发给刘彦汝，寻求建议。
Huang sent the second edition of the call to Liu for advice.
意识到刘彦汝的细心和谨慎，黄磊珂邀请她加入筹划小群。
Aware of Liu Yanyu's carefulness and discretion, Huang Lei-ke invited her to join the planning group.
温鞣旖刚进入莱佛士初级学院读高一，也是在除夕夜，她从QQ上了解到新加坡留学生群体的募捐活动。
Wentannin just entered the first year of high school in Lefferth Junior College, but also in the New Year's Eve, she learned from QQ students in Singapore fund-raising activities.
没有多想，立刻扫码进群了。
Not much to think about, immediately swept into the group.
作为武汉人，她急迫地想要做点儿什么，但又不知道能做什么。
As a Wuhan person, she urgently wants to do something, but does not know what to do.
1月12日离开家乡时，一切看起来都很正常，但23日早上5点，妈妈突然告诉她武汉封城，她嚎啕大哭，惊醒了同为武汉人的室友，两人抱着哭肿了眼睛。
When she left her hometown on January 12, everything seemed normal, but at 5 a.m. on the 23rd her mother suddenly told her that Wuhan had been closed.
她不知道事情如何走到这一步。
She did not know how it had come about.
回想起来，从11月初到1月上旬，回武汉过假期的两个多月里，温鞣旖发现“有很多人都感冒了”。
In retrospect, during the two-month holiday back to Wuhan in early November and early January, the tanners discovered that "a lot of people catch a cold."
在1月9日媒体公布“不明原因肺炎”的病原体是新型冠状病毒后，父母提醒过她，出门要戴口罩。
She was warned by her parents to wear a mask after the media said on January 9 that the pathogen "unknown pneumonia" was the new coronavirus.
他们还告诉温鞣旖，2003年SARS爆发时，为了保护她，妈妈把1岁的她送到乡下。
They also told Wen that when SARS broke out in 2003, her mother sent her 1-year-old to the countryside to protect her.
现在，她不想陷在焦虑和抑郁里，也想保护点儿什么。
Now, she doesn't want to get caught up in anxiety and depression, and she wants to protect something.
新加坡的中国留学生群体不算太大。
The Chinese student community in Singapore is not too large.
进群以后，温鞣旖查看了群成员，发现除了自己，没有其他武汉人，那意味着捐助团队无法对接到武汉本地医院的需求。
After entering the group, the tanners looked at the group members and found that there were no other Wuhan people besides themselves, which meant that the donor team could not respond to the demand for local hospitals in Wuhan.
她主动加了“看起来像负责人”的黄磊珂的微信。
She volunteered Huang Lei-ke's micro-letter, "Looking Responsible."
“我爸爸刚捐过东西，我同学家长也是武汉的医生。
"My father just donated something and my classmates' parents are Wuhan doctors.
所以想提一些建议，首先不是很建议捐钱了，他们不缺钱，他们缺用钱买不到的东西。
So I would like to make some suggestions, first of all not very much to donate money, they do not lack money, they lack money can not buy things.
”她告诉黄磊珂，前线医生最缺的是N95口罩，其次是过氧化氢消毒水。
She told him that doctors on the front line needed N95 masks, followed by hydrogen peroxide disinfectant.
很快，温鞣旖也被黄磊珂邀请进筹划小群。
Soon, warm tanning was also invited by Huang Lei into the planning group.
三个人之前没有交集。
Three people didn't meet before.
如果不是新冠疫情，黄磊珂此时应该在为自己选择的政治学专业做准备，预读《君主论》、《国富论》与《历史的终结与最后的人》。
Had it not been for the new crown, she would have been preparing for her chosen major in political science, prereading The Monarchy, The Wealth of Nations, and The End of History and the Last Man.
刘彦汝则会陪爷爷奶奶看看电视、聊聊天。
Liu would watch TV and chat with his grandparents.
因为在国外读书，她已经四年没有回国陪他们过年了。
Because she is studying abroad, she has not come back to stay with them for four years.
而温鞣旖，不出意外的话，还是会像以前一样，追星、交朋友、“窝在自己的圈子里小声说话”。
But warm tanning, not unexpected words, or as before, the pursuit of stars, friends, "nest in their own circle whisper."
但疫情改变了一切。
But the epidemic has changed everything.
❷无知无畏连续好几天，黄磊珂使用手机屏幕的时间都接近10小时，最长的一天是12小时。
Zen ignorant dauntless for several days, Huang Lei Cosette used the cell phone screen almost 10 hours, the longest day is 12 hours.
1月26日，早上8点多，因为连续几天缺少睡眠，温鞣旖没熬住，趴在宿舍的桌子上睡着了。
January 26, more than 8 a.m., because of a lack of sleep for several days, warm tanned did not stay down, fell asleep on the dormitory table.
一个小时后醒来，微信上有600多条未读消息，来自募资协调小组和三个募捐大群。
An hour later, I woke up with more than 600 unread messages from the fundraising coordination group and three fundraising groups.
而在厦门的家中，从早上7点睁眼抓手机开始，刘彦汝就躺在床上一刻不停地处理信息，父母为叫她吃早餐几乎动怒。
At his family's home in Xiamen, Liu Yanyu has been lying in bed constantly processing information since he opened his eyes to grab the phone at 7 a. m. His parents were almost furious to make her eat breakfast.
自从除夕夜做了筹款捐助医院的决定后，这就已经成为三个人生活的常态。
Since New Year's Eve's decision to raise money for the hospital, it has become the norm for all three.
捐助发展得太快了。
Donations are moving too fast.
决定募资时，黄磊珂的目标只是4000块，刚好够买一箱楼下小卖部那样的N95口罩。
When he decided to raise money, Ms. Huang's goal was just 4,000 dollars, just enough to buy a box of N95 masks like the one in the store downstairs.
他对物资标准之类的问题一无所知，唯一的判断是：“8块钱一个，还挺贵的，肯定符合标准。
He knew nothing about the material standards, and his only judgment was, "Eight dollars a piece is expensive and certainly up to the standard.
”募资对象首先集中在以前打过交道的新加坡留学生。
The initial focus was on Singaporean students who had dealt with them before.
黄磊珂参与筹备过两届新加坡留学生的春晚，还参与过一个孵化学生社团的名为“Emergence涌基金”的NGO。
Ms Huang helped prepare two Spring Festival gala events for Singaporean students and participated in an NGO called Emergence Chung Fund, which incubates student groups.
所以，他最先发动的是参与过这两个项目的同学。
So, he started with the students who had been involved in the two projects.
除夕夜晚上不到9点，黄磊珂在新加坡留学生的微信群里发布了二维码，宣布组建用于募资的“新加坡武汉留学生武汉捐款群”。
On New Year's Eve, less than 9 p. m., she released a two-dimensional code in a small group of letters from Singaporean students announcing the formation of the Wuhan Donation Group of Wuhan Students from Singapore for fund-raising.
“我们已经找到了一个口罩商家，一箱500个，4000RMB，希望大家一起捐款！如果没有货源了，就直接捐款！”扫码进群的人源源不断。
"We have found a mask merchant, a box of 500, 4000RMB, hope we all donate together! If there is no source of goods, direct donations!"
接二连三的危机很快出现。
Crisis after crisis quickly set in.
先是刚刚通过微信验证的口罩供货商已经没货了。
The supplier of the mask, which had just passed the microphone test, was out of stock.
黄磊珂第一次感受到压力。
For the first time, Huang Lei felt pressure.
“你建群的时候就告诉大家找到了货源要买口罩，但现在又没货了。
"When you built a group, you told people you found a source to buy a mask, but now you're out of stock.
”在那之后，他在协调群里和其他组织者商议，是否按照约定，在找不到货源的情况下，直接捐钱。
After that, he held discussions with the other organizers in the coordination group to decide whether to donate money directly if no supply could be found, as agreed.
“物资其实比钱有用。
"Material is better than money.
”协调小组有人提出异议。
Objections were raised by the coordination group.
“我觉得物资不仅难运，而且会有信息不对称。
"I think the material is not only difficult to transport, but there is information asymmetry.
”另一名成员提出反对。
Another member objected.
“物资买不到的。
"We can't buy it.
”黄磊珂有点儿沮丧。
"Cosette was a little depressed.
温鞣旖刚刚进群，看到这三条关于物资的讨论，就把与一位前线医生的微信沟通截图发进协调小群：物资是最匮乏和最紧急的。
The warm morocco had just entered the fold, and seeing the three discussions on supplies, it sent a message to a front-line doctor in a coordinated small group: supplies were the most scarce and urgent.
“But the question is what Wuhan needs，not what we can offer.” 多轮沟通后，在捐助方式上，大家终于达成一致：捐物资，口罩、护目镜和手套。
"After several rounds of communication, there was finally a consensus on how to donate: donations of supplies, masks, goggles and gloves.
那个时候，用于筹划指挥的“坡党集资捐款协调中心”不到10个人。
At the time, the Pools Fund-raising Coordination Center, which was used to orchestrate the operation, numbered less than 10.
真正集中精力商讨出力的，只有四五个人。
There were only four or five people who really concentrated their efforts.
黄磊珂把“湖北之声”发布的“湖北紧急求援”消息发进群，作为物资的功能和防护标准参考。
Huang Lei-ke sent the urgent request for help from Hubei Sound to the group as a reference for the function and protection standard of materials.
找货源，大家只能分头想办法：黄磊珂通过亲友寻找口罩厂商，剩下的人分头去各大电商平台检索。
Looking for a source, we can only find a way: Huang Lei Cosette through relatives and friends to find mask manufacturers, the rest of the people go to the major commercial platform search.
筛选条件有三个：满足防护标准；春节发货；可以通过顺丰绿色通道运往武汉和周边地区。
There are three screening conditions: meet the protection standards; Spring Festival delivery; can be transported to Wuhan and surrounding areas through Shunfeng Green Channel.
满足这条件的口罩货源寥寥无几。
Few face masks meet this condition.
即便满足，供货商的资质和口罩的质量也难有保障。
Even if satisfied, the supplier's qualifications and the quality of the mask are not guaranteed.
“这毕竟是发往一线的口罩，标准要非常高才行。
"It's a first-line mask, after all. It has to be very high standard.
”刘彦汝第一次感到“绝望”。
For the first time Liu felt "desperate."
黄磊珂在大群如实相告。
Huang Lei-ke told the truth in large groups.
有群友提议从海外购置，被黄磊珂否决：“春节海关放假，再算上邮寄和清关时间。
A group of friends proposed to buy from overseas, was rejected by Huang Lei: "Spring Festival Customs holiday, counting the time for mailing and customs clearance.
”有人坚持认为应该想办法找口罩。
Some insist on finding a way to find a mask.
黄磊珂提醒：“所有物资都需要，不是只有口罩急需的。
"Everything is needed, not just masks," Mr Huang cautioned.
”又是几轮商讨，大家决定“主攻”货源相对充足的护目镜和手套。
After several rounds of discussion, it was decided that the "main attack" consisted of relatively ample supplies of goggles and gloves.
温鞣旖记得那天晚上，每个人分头询问了大约80家店铺。
The warm mornings remember that night everyone separately asked about 80 stores.
有些店家“狮子大开口”，但也有店家听说是捐往武汉的物资，主动降价。
Some shops "lion big mouth", but also heard that the store donated materials to Wuhan, took the initiative to reduce prices.
最终，几个人在200多家店铺里筛选出不到10个货源。
Eventually, a few people sifted through more than 200 stores for fewer than 10 sources.
质疑的声音在陌生捐赠者中间零星出现。
Scattered voices of questioning were heard among unknown donors.
货源怎么证明？你们的身份怎么证明？钱的流程怎么证明？“我们什么都没有。
How to prove the origin? How do you prove your identity? How does the money flow prove? "We have nothing."
如果你不相信我们，就不要捐了，我没办法向你证明。
If you don't believe us, don't donate. I can't prove it to you.
你可以观望一段时间，等我们完成第一批购买，如果你还有疑问，可以考虑退群。
You can wait and see for a while, until we complete the first purchase, if you still have doubts, you can consider withdrawing from the group.
”黄磊珂选择用最简单的办法回应。
She chose to respond in the simplest way.
那天晚上，每个人都忙到凌晨两点半。
Everyone was busy until half past two that night.
黄磊珂记得他把一段编辑好的护目镜问询在京东上发了30几遍，没有店家回复。
Huang Lei remembered that he had made more than 30 enquiries about an edited set of goggles on Jingdong, without a reply from the shop owner.
1月25日，大年初一，早上7点多，才有一家回复有货。
January 25, the first day of the New Year, 7: 00 in the morning, only a response to have goods.
他垫付5500元，买下200副发往武汉协和医院——那家店的全部存货——随后，他们把订单截图发进募资群，并给出捐助物资预算：1.5万元到2万元。
After paying 5,500 yuan in advance, he bought 200 copies for the Wuhan Concorde Hospital, the store's entire stock, and then sent them to fund-raisers with a budget of 15,000 to 20,000 yuan.
几乎在同一时间，第一个筹款群满员，有更多人要求入群。
Almost at the same time, the first fundraising group was full, with more people demanding to join the group.
他们很快组建了第二个群。
They soon formed a second group.
上午10：20，团队把收款码放进捐款群，宣布筹款正式开始。
At 10.20 a.m., the team put the collection code into the collection group and announced the official start of fund-raising.
资金骤然涌入，刘彦汝的手机开始震个不停，从100元到2000元，各种金额都有，最常见的是200元到500元之间，捐赠者还会附上“武汉加油”一类的留言。
With the sudden influx of funds, Liu Yanyu's mobile phone started to shake all the way from 100 yuan to 2,000 yuan. The most common amount of money is between 200 yuan and 500 yuan.
为了锁定货源，黄磊珂早就授权刘彦汝随时下订单。
In order to lock the source of goods, Huang Lei Yu has authorized Liu Yan Ru to place orders at any time.
所以，上午10：57，刘彦汝下了第二笔订单，单价39.9元的医用手套，按照武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部针对捐赠方式发布的第4号通告“统一调配”的要求，发往武汉市红十字会。
So at 10: 57 a.m. Liu placed a second order with a unit price of 39.9 yuan for medical gloves, which was sent to the Wuhan Red Cross Society in accordance with the requirements of Circular No. 4 "Uniform Allocation" issued by the Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command concerning the donation method.
12：04，第三笔订单，单价26元的护目镜250个，发往武汉同济医院。
The third order, 250 goggles with unit price of 26 yuan, was sent to Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
12：09，第四笔订单，同样的护目镜，发往协和武汉红十字会医院（武汉协和医院分院）。
12: 09, the fourth order, the same goggles, was sent to the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital (Wuhan Concorde Hospital Branch).
12：24，第五笔，发往孝感市第一人民医院。
12: 24, the fifth, sent to Xiaogan City First People's Hospital.
13：58，第六笔，发往宜昌市第一人民医院。
No.13: 58, the sixth one to the First People's Hospital in Yichang.
14：07，第七笔，发往仙桃市第一人民医院。
No.14: 07, the seventh one to the First People's Hospital in Xiantao City.
15：04，第八笔，发往武汉市第一医院。
1504, the eighth, sent to Wuhan City Hospital No. 1.
从正式发布到宣布结束，第一轮筹款和物资购买只用了不到7个小时。
The first round of fund-raising and material purchases took less than seven hours from the official launch to the announcement.
16：30，第一批物资购置、账目清算结束，黄磊珂在捐款大群里公告了明细：共计1.5万副手套、1450个护目镜。
At the end of the first batch of purchases and liquidation of the accounts Huang Lei announced the details in the donation group: 15,000 pairs of gloves and 1,450 goggles in total.
剩余款项是3410.31元，几个组织者又自掏腰包，凑到了5100。
The remaining sum was $3410.31, and several organizers raised the balance from their own pockets to 5,100.
他们打算把这笔钱全数捐赠给武汉市慈善总会。
They intend to donate all the money to the Wuhan Municipal Charity Association.
垫资下第一笔订单的时候，黄磊珂想过这笔钱“可能回不来”。
When the initial order was placed, Huang Lei thought that the money "may not come back."
但很快，他就意识到，筹款并不难。
But soon he realized that raising money was not difficult.
第一轮募资结束，他们收到53000元，远超预期。
At the end of the first round, they received $53,000, far more than expected.
真正难的，是找到符合防护标准的货源。
The real challenge is to find a source that meets the standards of protection.
一线医生提出的要求有时要高于官方标准。
The demands of front-line doctors are sometimes higher than official standards.
理论上相同的防护等级，一线医生更倾向于使用N95而不是KN95。
In theory, with the same level of protection, first-line doctors prefer N95 to KN95.
刘彦汝则发现有很多“坑”都需要小心绕过。
Liu found that there were many "pits" that needed to be carefully circumvented.
比如，需要很小心地核实实物究竟带不带呼吸阀，带呼吸阀的不能用于一线医护人员。
For example, it is necessary to verify with great care that objects are not breathing valves and that respirators cannot be used by front-line medical personnel.
有些商家会推荐9501和9502的3M口罩，但它其实主要防雾霾。
Some businesses will recommend 9501 and 9502 3M masks, but it's actually mainly fog-proof.
护目镜要选防雾的，这样不会影响医护人员的临床操作。
The goggles should be foggy so as not to affect the clinical operation of medical staff.
在克服“绝望”的过程中，刘彦汝已经能够熟练背诵各种物资标准。
In the process of overcoming "despair," Liu Yan Ru has been able to recite various material standards skillfully.
接受采访时，她随时会背出一段一长串数字。
When interviewed, she recites a long list of numbers at any time.
“9132、1860、4565、1621AF，真的，这几天看到这些比看到啥都高兴，简直像中头奖了。
"9132, 1860, 4565, 1621AF, really, these days it's better than seeing anything. It's like winning the jackpot.
”她在朋友圈里写道。
'she wrote in her circle of friends.
莱佛士初级学院毕业生刘彦汝更难的是决定把物资给谁。
Liu Yan Ru, a junior college graduate of Raffles, finds it harder to decide who to give to.
温鞣旖对接医院，每一家医院都告诉她：“我们太缺了”。
Warm mornings and docking hospitals tell her, "We're too short."
除了首先要考虑的协和、同济、人民医院三家，她只能考虑能直接对接到的医院。
In addition to the first to consider Concord, Tongji, People's Hospital three, she can only consider directly to the hospital received.
熟人社会开始起作用。
The circle of acquaintances came into play.
有来自宜昌的留学生主动协调联络到了宜昌的医院，那宜昌就进入考虑范围。
There are students from Yichang actively coordinated to contact the Yichang hospital, then Yichang entered the scope of consideration.
温鞣旖的妈妈是孝感人，能直接联系到孝感的医院，那它也可以列入名单。
The warm tanned mother is filial, can be directly linked to filial piety of the hospital, then it can also be listed.
还有一些患者求助会提到无法入院是因为医院紧缺物资，这样的医院也可以立即联络。
Other patients referred to the inability to hospitalize because of shortages in hospitals, which could also be contacted immediately.
总之，没有太多时间来考量分析，只能依靠有限的熟人推荐，综合考虑物流、地域平衡，用直觉迅速做决断。
In short, there is not much time for analysis, only a limited number of acquaintances to recommend, comprehensive logistics, geographical balance, intuitive rapid decision-making.
温鞣旖一位初中同学的父母分别是协和和同济两家医院的医生。
Wen tanning a junior high school students parents are Concorde and Tongji two hospitals doctors.
捐赠物资发出后，同学的父亲特意到班级的微信群了感谢了她。
After the donation of materials, the students' father specially to the class micro-letter group thanked her.
那条长微信里，他说了好多个“感谢”。
In the long letter, he said many "thank you."
温鞣旖看到以后就哭了，“我们这么一点小小的努力不值得他们这些在前线的医生这样感恩。
The warm mornings cry when they see it. "Our small efforts don't deserve the gratitude of their doctors on the front lines.
医护人员现在有多辛苦，我都不敢想象。
I can't imagine how hard the paramedics are working now.
他们不应该承受这些。
They don't deserve this.
”❸“神秘的王先生”第二轮筹款在大年初三晚上开始。
The second round of fund-raising for "The Mysterious Mr. Wang" started on the third night of New Year.
团队把筹款目标设定为5万。
The team set a fundraising target of 50,000.
能发动的对象都已经捐过一轮了，黄磊珂对第二轮的预期很低，“也许只能筹到一两万吧。
The targets that could be launched had already been donated, and Huang's expectations of the second round were low. "Maybe only ten or twenty thousand.
”物资仍然极度紧张，为了尽可能多替医院筹集物资，他们决定把握住一个人——“神秘的王先生”。
Supplies remained extremely tight, and in order to raise as much supplies as possible for the hospital, they decided to hold one man, the "mysterious Mr. Wang."
没有人知道王先生的身份，也没有人清楚他是怎么进群的。
No one knows Mr. Wang's identity, and no one knows how he got into the group.
大年初一，王先生加了黄磊珂的微信，上来就问他要银行账号和开户名。
On New Year's Day, Mr. Wang added a micro-letter to Huang Lei-ke, asked him to bank account and open an account.
黄磊珂觉得奇怪：微信转我不就好了吗？王先生说，微信转不了。
Miss Huang Lei felt strange: Wouldn't it be nice if the letter were turned over to me? Mr. Wang said.
黄磊珂说，怎么，你要捐多少？王先生说，十万。
said Huang Lei-ke. Why, how much do you want to donate? Mr. Wang said, 100,000.
黄磊珂赶紧拒绝，“吓了一跳。
Huang Lei-ke quickly refused. "Startled."
”王先生又说，三万。
'said Mr. Wang, thirty thousand.
黄磊珂还是不敢要。
She dared not have it.
最后，他收了一万。
At last he collected ten thousand.
王先生不提任何要求，一味地想要捐钱。
Mr. Wang made no mention of any request and was always trying to donate money.
第二轮筹款超过预期，他们就和王先生达成默契，不再收钱，把物资链接和医院地址直接发给他，让他自己下单，算是个人捐赠。
The second round of fund-raising exceeded expectations, they and Mr. Wang reached a tacit understanding, no longer collect money, the material link and hospital address directly to him, let him order his own, as a personal donation.
事后总结，小组发现，仅王先生一人，就购买了总价近10万元的护目镜，最大一笔，55000元，1000个护目镜，寄给武汉协和医院，剩下的几笔分别发往孝感、仙桃和武汉的社区卫生服务中心。
After the event, the team found that Mr. Wang alone had bought nearly 100,000 yuan worth of goggles, the largest, 55,000 yuan, 1000 goggles, and sent them to Wuhan Concorde Hospital. The remaining pieces were sent to the community health service centers in Xiaogan, Xiantao and Wuhan respectively.
就像病毒传播需要超级传播者，他们的筹款对象中出现了王先生这样的“超级贡献者”。
Just as the spread of the virus requires super communicators, their fund-raisers include "super contributors" like Mr Wang.
除了第二笔订单外，其余物资，他们都直接发给医院，最快的一单，从购买到接收只用了4天时间。
With the exception of the second order, they sent the rest directly to the hospital, the fastest, in only four days from purchase to receipt.
2月1日，舆论聚焦红十字会以后，黄磊珂没忍住，晒了一张武汉协和医院开具的物资签收单。
On February 1, after the public opinion focused on the Red Cross, Huang Lei-ke could not help bask in a receipt from Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
在这条朋友圈里，他写道：“堂堂一个省级红十字会，做事效率还没有我们一群高中生和大学生快。
In this circle of friends, he wrote: "A provincial Red Cross, not as efficient as our group of high school and college students.
”“我是想要做实事的人。
"" I want to be practical.
只有看到真正需要的人拿到物资，我才放心。
I am relieved to see that the people who really need it get their supplies.
”接受采访时，王先生解释他选择这群高中生的原因。
In an interview, Mr. Wang explained why he chose the group of high school students.
他自己也曾是在新加坡读书的中国留学生。
He himself was a Chinese student studying in Singapore.
不是没有意外。
Not without a hitch.
1月26日，筹款二群的一位群友告诉温鞣旖，有自称组织者的人私下加人，发二维码筹款。
On January 26, a group of fundraisers told Wen Tannan that people claiming to be organizers were secretly adding people to raise money in two dimensions.
温鞣旖立即向群友道歉。
The warm chamois immediately apologized to the group.
筹划组商议后，决定公开所有组织者的姓名、学校、联系方式，并统一在大群中澄清。
After consultation with the planning group, it was decided that the names, schools and contact details of all organizers would be made public and uniformly clarified in a large group.
为了加强管理，在大群里，每一个组织者都在备注前添加了【管理员】的标签。
To strengthen management, in large groups, each organizer adds a "caretaker" label to the comments.
“公开、透明才能解决问题，回应质疑。
"Openness and transparency can solve problems and respond to questions.
”温鞣旖事后总结。
Warm tanning prices were summed up afterwards.
莱佛士初级学院高一新生温鞣旖，18岁，武汉人。
Raffles Junior College freshman Wen tanning, 18 years old, Wuhan.
新加坡留学生的捐助规模并不算大。
The donation from Singaporean students is not very large.
1月底，影响力更大的北美留学生“百万口罩”、“武汉加油”项目相继被曝出物资不合标准。
At the end of January, more influential North American students "million masks," "Wuhan refueling" projects have been exposed to substandard materials.
“我觉得就是一场闹剧，可能他们中有些人是真的想为祖国做一些事情，但是更多人好像是为了搏眼球，搞宣传。
"I think it's a farce, maybe some of them really want to do something for the motherland, but more people seem to be fighting for their eyeball, propaganda.
最奇怪的就是多转发一次，就多捐一个口罩。
The weirdest thing is to pass it on a second time and donate one more mask.
情况这么紧急，大家都在争着往疫区送口罩，他们却还有时间在这里等转发？口罩不符合标准的事情更无语，劳民伤财。
The situation is so urgent, everyone is fighting to send masks to the affected areas, but they still have time to wait here to forward them.
要是我们自己没有做这个事就批评他们，可能算是站着说话不腰疼。
If we criticize them for not doing it ourselves, we may be speaking up without a backache.
但是现在，我觉得找到符合标准的厂家并没有那么难。
But right now, I don't think it's that hard to find a company that meets the standards.
不明白他们是怎么把好好的一个事情做成这样的。
I don't know how they managed to do such a good thing.
”黄磊珂说。
"said Huang Lei-ke.
❹真实世界的启蒙1月23日，得知武汉最“牛”的三家医院竟然开始向社会募资，温鞣旖曾下过结论：造谣，假的。
The Three Hospitals of Wuhan's Most Cow Began to Raise Funds, a conclusion drawn from the tanners of wenchao: rumor, fake.
但后来，看到常去新疆出差的爸爸甚至已经开始从新疆找口罩供应商，用以支援前线医生时，温鞣旖终于相信那是事实。
But then, seeing his father, who travels to Xinjiang on business, even start looking for a mask supplier from Xinjiang to back up the front-line doctors, the wenchao turned out to be true.
“知道不妙了，整个心都在滴血，又愤怒，又无助，又着急想做点事情。
"Know bad, the whole heart is dripping blood, angry, helpless, anxious to do something.
”温鞣旖哭过很多次。
The tanners wailed many times.
收到同学的医生父母发来的感谢信会哭，看到武汉的Vlogger发布的空城视频她会哭，看到武汉的小区集体唱国歌她还会哭。
Received from the students of the doctor's parents will cry, see Wuhan Vlogger issued by the empty city video she will cry, see Wuhan community singing the national anthem she will cry.
没有别的办法，最简单的平复方式就是“忙起来，为武汉做点事”。
There is no other way, the simplest form of rehabilitation is "busy, do something for Wuhan".
采访中，我们提起前《新闻调查》记者柴静在SARS期间的一次经历：一位女医生在得知疫情的严重程度以后，神思恍惚，嘴里念叨“我的孩子才3岁”。
In the interview, we referred to the story of Chai Jing, a former reporter for the News Investigation, who said, "My child is only 3 years old" after learning of the severity of the outbreak.
但在一间被隔离的学生宿舍里，她又去安慰惊慌失措的女学生。
But in an isolated hostel, she went to comfort panicked schoolgirls.
出了屋子，她告诉柴静：“我也是一位母亲。
Out of the room, she told Chai Jing, "I am a mother, too.
”柴静写：人只有在关心别人的时候，才会忘了自己。
"Only when one cares about others can one forget himself," he wrote.
“我知道那本书！”温鞣旖说。
"I know that book!" said Wen tanning.
做事情让她有力量感，“我一定要把它做大，无论周围人怎么说，我一定要收到款，一定要确保它能送到武汉和周边城市的医院。
"I must make it big. No matter what people around me say, I must receive the money and make sure it reaches the hospitals in Wuhan and the surrounding cities.
”她说了好多个“一定”。
She said quite a few things.
到新加坡读初中的第一年，她上了一门讲社会分层的通识课，老师带大家讨论社会阶层和流动的问题。
In her first year of junior high school in Singapore, she took a class on social stratification, in which teachers discussed social class and mobility.
疫情爆发后，看到不同人的境遇，她想起课上的讨论，“有一些群体得不到口罩，这就与社会分层有关。
After the outbreak, seeing the plight of different people, she recalled the discussion in class, "There are groups who do not have masks, which is related to social stratification.
”温鞣旖到现在都还悬着心。
The warm tannins were still hanging in their hearts.
因为还有很多物资没有送到医院。
Because a lot of supplies didn't get to the hospital.
她担心会有半路截胡的事情发生，不停地追踪物流信息。
She was afraid of a cut-off in the middle of the road and kept tracking logistics information.
以前，黄磊珂认为在家读书是最紧要的事。
Once upon a time, Huang Lei-ke thought that studying at home was the most important thing.
但现在，他会用“死读几本书”形容那种闭门读书的状态。
Now, however, he will use the phrase "to read a few books" to describe the closed-door state.
“再过可能10年、20年，回想起当年的疫情，可能其他人都是躲在家里刷手机，我可以问心无愧地说，我不是在数我家有几粒米，我家的猫有多少根毛，我和几个朋友在一起，为前方的医生做了一点事情。
"In another 10, 20 years, looking back on the epidemic, maybe everyone else was hiding at home, brushing their mobile phones, and I can safely say, I'm not counting how many meters there are in my house, how many hairs my cat has, with a few friends and doing something for the doctors ahead.
”黄磊珂说。
"said Huang Lei-ke.
1月30日，团队以“Emergence涌基金”的名义宣布守护行动募资结束。
On January 30, the team announced the end of the Guardian Initiative as the Emergence Surge Fund.
组织者已从最初的几个人扩充到14人。
The number of organizers has expanded from a few to 14.
团队募捐筹集的13万元善款，一共购买了24批物资。
The team collected 130,000 yuan and bought 24 lots of materials.
他们通过石墨文档、微信公众号，公示了收支台账、订单、医院接收凭证和物流记录。
They posted their balance sheets, orders, hospital receipts and logistics records through graphite files and microletters to the public.
结余的3400元，他们悉数转赠给武大校友会，请其代为支配。
The balance of $3,400 was transferred to the alumni association of Wu University, who placed it at their disposal.
“怎么可能？神奇。
"How could it be? Magic.
”看到第一轮捐赠成功，刘彦汝的妈妈陈静（化名）觉得不可思议。
"Seeing the success of the first round of donations, Liu Yue's mother, Chen Jing (not her real name), found it inconceivable.
陈静一开始嫌女儿瞎掺和，“那是中央政府的事。
Chen Jing initially disliked her daughter for meddling. "That's for the central government.
”刘彦汝没有反驳。
Liu Yanyu did not reply.
事情做成，陈静觉得女儿跟充满问题和风险的真实社会“接上了”。
As things turned out, Chen felt that her daughter was "connected" to the real world of problems and risks.
刘彦汝之前不喜欢扩展社交，但事后，她讶异与陌生人凝聚后形成的能量。
Liu Yan Ru did not like to expand social intercourse before, but later, she was surprised at the energy formed by agglomeration with strangers.
一直以来，因为同辈压力，刘彦汝喜欢用“渣渣”来形容自己。
All the time, Liu likes to use "slag" to describe himself because of peer pressure.
她反复强调自己的“普通”。
She insisted on being "ordinary."
但在组织捐助的过程里，她找到了价值感。
But in organizing the donation, she found a sense of value.
温鞣旖则说，“以前参加过一个比赛，需要做自我介绍，我不知道我该说什么，我就凑字数，说我的梦想是改变世界。
"I didn't know what to say. I just scraped together the words and said my dream was to change the world.
我很外向，可是我一直都没有行动。
I'm very outgoing, but I haven't been able to move.
直到这件事情，现在，我知道，我可以做出改变。
Until this, now, I know, I can make a difference.
” GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
GQ reports that you are soliciting information about epidemic prevention and treatment. If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or if you know all kinds of information contributing to the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, please contact us at any time!
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：王宇编辑：靳锦运营编辑：肖呱呱、二水。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! Reply eggs in the background of the public, send you a colorful egg interview, write: Wang Yu editor: Jin Jin Operations Editor: Xiao Quack, Ershui.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一群00后留学生的捐赠行动：“我们和真实的社会接上了”。
A group of students after the donation action: "We are connected with the real society."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "一群00后留学生的捐赠行动：“我们和真实的社会接上了”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我们只有在关心别人的时候，才会忘了自己。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We only forget ourselves when we care about others.
”";。
";;
title: '鸡在瘟疫蔓延时',。
At & quot; & quot; hen & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when the plague spread.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '武汉封城后的宠物营救计划：人类犯错的后果，不该由它们承担',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉',。
Ride out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, and volunteers... Found City 9, and they maintain Wuhan's blood at & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
