断药危机：封城封村之后的艾滋感染者。
Drug crisis: people infected with AIDS after the closure of the city.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
刘全有能做的事情，就是在家里打电话，一遍遍地给天门市疾控中心打电话。
Liu Quan has the ability to do is to call the CDC over and over again at home.
无人接听。
No one answered.
后来他才知道，整个艾防科室的人几乎被调去处理肺炎疫情了。
Later, he learned that the entire Ai defense department was almost transferred to deal with the pneumonia epidemic.
大年初三，在打了十几个电话之后——每一个电话都要避开家人注意——疾控中心终于有人接听了，对方告诉他，这个事情现在交给市第一人民医院的一位主任来处理了。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, after making a dozen phone calls -- every call had to be avoided by family members -- the CDC was finally heard and told that the matter was now being handled by a director of the First People's Hospital in the city.
他打去电话，又不通了。
He called, but he couldn't get through.
他看了看自己的药。
He looked at his medicine.
倒数计时的闹钟悬在他的头顶，还有5天。
The countdown alarm clock hung over his head for five days.
很快他将知道，电话打通，只是过了第一关。
Soon he'll know that the call was through, just past the first level.
文|谢梦遥编辑 |糖槭告急那种不安的感觉是逐渐浮现的。
The uneasiness with which Xie Mengyao's editor and sugar maple has emerged.
1月23日，武汉的「封城」消息传来的时候，刘军并没有太担心。
On January 23, when word of the Wuhan "closure" came, Liu Jun was not too worried.
年前一周，他从工作所在地广州回湖北孝感老家的时候，他看到路上只有很少的人戴口罩。
A week ago, when he was returning to his hometown of filial piety in Hubei Province from Guangzhou, where he worked, he saw only a few people wearing masks on the road.
似乎是一夜之间，疫情就爆发了。
It seems to have happened overnight.
他没有那么快地消化掉接踵而来所有的信息，「我不是武汉本市的嘛，再观望几天吧。
He did not digest all the incoming information so quickly. "I am not from Wuhan city, just wait and see for a few days."
」他告诉《人物》，按照他的计划，他将在大年初八回广东。
"He told People that according to his plan, he would return to Guangdong on the eighth day of the New Year.
他多带了两天的药，可以吃到初十。
He took two extra days of medicine so that he could eat until the tenth grade.
准确地说，是三种药。
Three, to be exact.
身为一个艾滋感染者，刘军需要每日服药抑制体内病毒。
As a person infected with AIDS, Liu Jun needs daily medication to suppress the virus in the body.
国家免费提供的药物有8种，针对不同个体，医生通常会从中选择三种作为治疗方案。
There are eight drugs offered free of charge by the State, and doctors usually choose three of them as treatment options for different individuals.
「三联」，他们都这么说。
"Triple Union," they all said.
每三个月，感染者会去定点医院取一次药。
Every three months, the infected person visits the hospital for a pill.
一切发生得太快了，继武汉发布停运消息后，同一天湖北省再陆续有多个城市跟随，至1月24日上午，全省鄂州、黄冈、孝感等13座城市相继「封城」。
Everything happened so fast that after Wuhan released the news of the suspension, many cities in Hubei Province followed suit on the same day. By the morning of January 24, 13 cities in Hubei province, Huanggang and filial piety had been closed down.
人出不去了。
I can't get out.
他慌了。
He panicked.
治疗艾滋的药物不像粮食或者口罩，可以在市面上买到。
AIDS drugs, unlike food or masks, are commercially available.
也不是随便一个医院都可以取药，按属地管理原则，只能在关系所在地的医院取药。
Also, medicines are not available in any one hospital and are available only at the hospital where they are related, in accordance with the principle of territorial management.
上海只接纳本地户籍人士，武汉则宽限至有居住证和本地学生证的人。
Only local residents are admitted to Shanghai, while Wuhan is restricted to those with residence permits and local student cards.
这种定点取药规定在患者社群内早有反对声音，但难以撼动，毕竟免费的艾滋病治疗涉及到地方财政支出。
Such targeting rules have long been opposed within the patient community, but are difficult to shake, because free AIDS treatment involves local financial outlays.
史无前例的封城，有利于抑制疫情的扩散，但也引发了一些混乱，艾滋感染群体断药是次生问题的其中一个。
Unprecedented closures have helped to contain the spread of the epidemic, but they have also caused some confusion, with the AIDS-infected community disabling one of the secondary problems.
但对于个体来说，这无疑于一场灾难。
But for the individual, it was a disaster.
断药后果很严重。
The consequences of the interruption are severe.
艾滋治疗要求极高的依从性，每天按时服药以抑制病毒数量——时间卡到分钟，很多感染者为此设了三四个闹钟。
AIDS treatment requires a high degree of compliance, with regular daily doses of the drug to contain the virus - a time card that many infected people set up three or four alarm clocks.
药一旦停，病毒反弹，有可能引得病发，还会令身体产生耐药性。
Once the drug stops, the virus bounces back, which can lead to illness and lead to resistance.
一旦防艾体系内免费供给的药不再奏效，就需要换天价自费药，甚至无药可治。
Once the free supply of drugs within the AIDS control system no longer works, they need to replace expensive self-funded drugs, or even no cure.
截至2018年10月底，湖北省报告现存艾滋病病毒感染者和病人19166例，病例数排全国第13位，同样的麻烦也影响到了统计数据之外的人。
By the end of October 2018, 19,166 cases of HIV-infected people and patients were reported in Hubei Province, the 13th largest number of cases in the country.
湖北人汪树林在美国留学，家境殷实，他从来没有用过中国免费药，一直用的是「美国最好的药」，「美国保险可以报销」。
Hubei Wang Lin studied in the United States in a prosperous family, he has never used the free Chinese medicine, has been using "the best medicine in the United States," "American insurance can be reimbursed."
按早早订下的计划，回湖北休假的他将在1月24日从湖北当时还未封城的某市去武汉搭飞机回美国。
He is scheduled to return to Hubei province on January 24 for a flight back to the United States from a city in Hubei province that had not yet been closed.
武汉封城后，他马上重新买票，改从广州飞。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, he immediately re-purchase tickets, fly from Guangzhou.
他需要解决的是国内这一程，某市飞广州的机票卖光了，于是他买了年后先去南京，再换去广州的票。
He needed to solve the domestic flight, a city to Guangzhou sold out, so he bought a year after Nanjing, and then change tickets to Guangzhou.
一通折腾，总算搞定了，他感到稍稍心安。
He felt a little relieved that he had managed to get it over with.
大年三十的晚上，他在打包行李时，由某市机场出发的所有航班取消了。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, when he was packing, all flights from the airport of a city were canceled.
他去不了美国，他去不了广州，他哪里也去不了。
He can't go to America, he can't go to Guangzhou, he can't go anywhere.
像湖面涟漪，封锁自武汉开始，在各个湖北县市推及，很快就到了村一级。
Like ripples on the lake, the blockade began in Wuhan, in Hubei county pushed forward, soon arrived at the village level.
荆州的李京发现他村子唯一通往外界的那条路，被小车堵上了，只留一道缝隙，「最多能走个人，或者是骑个摩托车之类的」。
Li Jing in Jingzhou found his village's only road to the outside world blocked by a small car, leaving a gap, "at most can walk a person, or ride a motorcycle and so on."
没有特殊情况，人员和车辆都不得通行。
No persons or vehicles shall be allowed to pass under special circumstances.
天门的刘全有所在的村更彻底，所有交叉路口都堆上了土，堵得严严实实，这下，连救护车和物资车都进不来了。
Tianmen's Liu Quan in the village is more thorough, all the intersection of the pile of dirt, blocked up, under this, even ambulance and supplies can not enter.
封村给一般人确实能带来安全感，却给这些面临断药的艾滋感染者带来了巨大的恐惧。
Village closures do provide a real sense of security for the general population, but they have created a great deal of fear for people living with AIDS who are facing the threat of dying.
如果说他们的活动范围尚能在村内，那些在湖北工作的省外人回乡后，将发现他们面临严厉的禁足。
If their area of activity is still within the village, those from outside Hubei province who return home will find that they face severe restrictions.
何旺生自年前回到河北乡下后，作为高危对象，他和家人被要求在家进行隔离。
He and his family have been asked to stay at home since returning to rural Hebei province a year ago.
他感到村里人对他倒是通情达理，村支书和社区医生只是反复对他强调要注意监控体温，也没有什么嫌弃与敌意。
He felt that the villagers were understanding of him and that the village branch and the community doctor had repeatedly stressed to him the need to monitor his body temperature, without any aversion or enmity.
何旺生算了下，药可以撑到14天隔离期结束，他略感宽心。
He Wangsheng calculated that the medicine can last until the end of the 14-day isolation period, he felt a little relieved.
他对村支书说：「我肯定会配合，各方面我做好真正自我隔离。
"I will certainly cooperate," he told the village branch. "In all respects, I am truly self-isolated.
但是完了以后的话，我是不是可以自由？」「这个的话，不能给你确定的答复。
But after that, am I free? "" I can't give you a definite answer to that.
」武汉封城后的街道 图源B站UP主林晨同学隐私从开始服药的第一天起，一个担忧就深深埋入艾滋感染群体的脑中，用武汉人王亚东的话说，「如果遇上天灾地震，或者战争爆发，还能不能吃得上药？」每次去医院都是发三个月的药，服药是终身的，这意味着，每隔三个月，倒数计时的闹钟将重新启动。
From day one of the medicine began, a concern was buried deep in the minds of people infected with the disease, and in the words of Wuhan Wang Yadong, "If an earthquake or war breaks out, can you take medicine?" Every time you go to a hospital, the countdown alarm clock will be restarted.
几位受访者都告诉《人物》，断药的恐惧要远远大于得知感染那一刻的恐惧。
Several interviewees told People that the fear of losing a pill was far greater than the fear of getting infected.
王亚东习惯去哪里，药不离身。
Where Wang Yadong used to go, medicine does not leave.
他把几百个药片藏到书包深处，回家就锁在柜子里。
He hid hundreds of pills deep in his schoolbag and locked them in his cupboard when he got home.
除了医生开的3个月的药，他通过自己的渠道额外多买了一个月作为储备。
In addition to the three-month medication prescribed by his doctor, he bought an extra month of reserves through his own channels.
还有最后一道保险，他的钥匙扣上挂着一个小小的金属瓶，里面有着3天的药，他怕出门忘带书包。
Then there was the last safety, a small metal bottle on his key-chain, which contained three days' worth of medicine. He was afraid to leave his bag behind.
何旺生经常出差，他永远会把药分装在两个盒子里，「如果有一个盒子遗失的话，另外一个盒子还有补救。
He travels a lot and will always put the medicine in two boxes. "If one box is lost, the other has to be fixed.
」身边带够药，是个根深蒂固的常识，但与春节回家发生了冲突。
"Taking enough medicine with you was a ingrained common sense, but it clashed with returning home for the Spring Festival.
很少有人把艾滋感染的事情告诉家人，而过多的药片与瓶瓶罐罐容易被发现，引起怀疑。
Few people tell their families about HIV infection, and too many pills and bottles are easy to spot and cause suspicion.
外地回乡感染者的选择几乎是一样的，预估好天数，多带个几天，剩下的留在常住地。
The choice of those who return home is almost the same, with an estimated number of days, plus a few days, with the rest remaining in their usual place of residence.
所有需要长期服药的慢性病患者，在封城封村之际都将面临断药的危机。
All chronically ill patients who need long-term medication face the prospect of losing their medication when the city is closed.
相比其他慢性病患者，艾滋感染者处境更为艰难，四处寻药的同时，他们要保住这个秘密。
People living with HIV are in a more difficult situation than those with other chronic diseases, and they have to keep the secret as they look for drugs.
隔离在河北家中，当村支书表示有什么困难都可以提出帮忙解决的时候，何旺生只有一个念头，不能说，宁肯断药也不能说。
Isolated in the Hebei home, when the village branch said that any difficulties can be put forward to help solve, He Wangsheng only one idea, can not say, rather than medicine.
在不知情的家人面前，他们需要掩饰住内心的慌乱。
In the presence of unsuspecting family members, they need to hide their inner panic.
大年三十那天，收到孝感封城的消息之后，刘军转向母亲，平静地问起晚饭是吃饺子还是米饭。
On New Year's Eve, after receiving the news of filial piety, Liu Jun turned to his mother and calmly asked if dinner was dumplings or rice.
那个问题在说出口时就已经完成了使命，他根本没有在听母亲的回答。
He was not listening to his mother's reply to the question, which he had accomplished by the time it was said.
《人物》所有的电话采访都进行得极为艰难。
All of PEOPLE's phone interviews were extremely difficult.
担心隐私泄露，许多人拒绝了采访。
Fearing for privacy, many people refused the interview.
愿意接受采访的人，有些因为和家人在一起，只能打字，不能语音。
Some of those who were willing to be interviewed could type only and could not speak English because they were with their families.
那位在美国留学的汪树林，为避开父母，选择去了哥哥家接听电话——哥哥是整个家族中唯一知道他情况的人。
"To avoid his parents, Wang Lin, who studied in the United States, chose to answer the phone at his brother's home - the only one in the family who knew about him.
刘全有在家与《人物》通话时，审慎地选择措辞，将所有可能引发家人怀疑的敏感语句，含糊处理。
Liu Quan, speaking to People at home, carefully chooses the wording and vaguely deals with all the sensitive statements that might arouse suspicion in his family.
刘军有两个微信，两个手机，随身携带，只用一个处理艾滋治疗的事情。
Liu Jun has two micro-letters, two mobile phones, with him, only one to deal with AIDS treatment.
问及身份泄露的后果时，一位同性恋的艾滋感染者对《人物》记者连说了3遍「不能想象」。
Asked about the consequences of the leak, a gay AIDS sufferer told People three times: "I can't imagine."
「你是这个（同志）身份，在普通的农村里就已经是大逆不道了，如果你再把你因为这个身份而得病的情况再说出去的话，那真的就是容不下你了。
"As such, you are already a traitor in the country, and if you speak again of your illness as a result of your status, there is no room for you.
」在当今的医学条件下，艾滋感染者外部特征与常人无异。
In today's medical world, people living with HIV have the same external characteristics as normal people.
在日常情况下，只要小心行事，这处隐私能够守住。
In everyday situations, this privacy can be maintained as long as care is taken.
没有人会把药物储存在原装瓶子里，都是撕掉标签，重新装瓶。
No one would store the drug in the original bottle, but would tear it off and refill it.
王亚东买了3个黑色瓶子，这样从外部也看不出药片的形状和颜色。
Wang bought three black bottles, so the shape and color of the tablets could not be seen from the outside.
有一次在机场，过X光时安全人员看到了他的药，问他是什么。
On one occasion at the airport, after X-rays, the security personnel saw his medication and asked him what it was.
「我有心脏病，这是心脏病类的药。
"I have a heart attack. It's a heart medicine.
」这是一套早就准备好并演练的回答，为此，他还查过资料，哪些药是不能漏掉的。
"This was a well-prepared and rehearsed set of answers, for which he had checked the data on which drugs could not be omitted.
他需要在午饭后服药，在单位，他的闹钟会准时响起。
He needs to take the medicine after lunch. At work, his alarm clock goes off on time.
这个问题也早早解决了，他一直以来给同事「灌输了一个观念」，控制心脏病的药是属于高血压类的一种，因为高血压类的药是需要准时吃的，所以订了闹钟。
The problem was solved early, and he has been "indoctrinating" his colleagues that drugs to control heart disease belong to the high blood pressure group, because hypertension drugs need to be taken on time, so set alarm clocks.
江苏大学生谢小剑服药时间在晚上，虽然室友从来没有问起他闹铃的事，一套措辞早已想好了，说自己肠胃不好。
Jiangsu college student Xie XiaoJian took medicine in the evening, although the roommate never asked him about the alarm bell, a set of wording has been thought out, said his stomach bad.
他睡上铺，举动不易察觉，他会趁着室友们打游戏的时候，把药片塞进嘴里。
He sleeps in his upper bunk and acts imperceptibly, stuffing pills into his mouth while his roommates play games.
身兼一个同性恋者，谢小剑明白，承认艾滋感染是一件比同志出柜更难启齿的事情。
As a gay man, Xie understood that admitting to HIV infection was a harder thing to say than coming out of the closet.
这个局面不是他们造成的，而是社会氛围逼着他们只有如此选择。
They are not responsible for this situation, but the social climate compels them to choose this way.
他曾向他的家人出柜得到了接纳，而他曾有过恐同言论的室友在得知他的性取向后，对他也很友好。
He had been admitted to his family and his roommate, who had been intimidating, had been friendly to him when he learned of his sexual orientation.
「我很难想象他们知道我是一个艾滋感染者之后会怎么看待我，会不会把我赶出这个宿舍。
"It's hard to imagine what they would think of me if I was an HIV-positive person, and whether they would kick me out of this dorm.
」他学校与老家都不在湖北，他现存的药也够吃一个月，但在大年初一的晚上，网上关于艾滋感染者断药的求助消息传出来的时候，他哭了。
"Neither his school nor his hometown is in Hubei, and he still has enough medicine for a month, but on New Year's Eve, when news of an online AIDS-related death came out, he began to cry.
他想起一位朋友，正是因为服药延误而去世。
He thought of a friend who had died as a result of the delay in taking the medicine.
他开始一遍遍地在微博转发信息，并私信一些大V帮忙转发。
He began relaying messages over and over again on Weibo, and privately trusted some large V to help forward it.
但很快他发现，信息被限流了，阅读量远远低于正常数字。
But soon he found that the flow of information was limited and the reading was far below normal.
「从感染到现在的经历，因为我自己对这个疾病的认识，没有觉得天要塌下来，我觉得我一个人完全能够扛得住，完全可以应对得来。
"From the infection to the present, because my own knowledge of the disease did not feel that the sky was going to collapse, I felt I could bear it all alone and could handle it.
」电话接受《人物》采访时，谢小剑再一次哽咽，「直到这次事情出现的时候，我才意识到，在这种突发的情况之下，像我们边缘群体的需求是很容易被忽视掉的，从来没有觉得我们这个社群那么脆弱。
In a telephone interview with People, Xie again choked. "It was only when this happened that I realized that in such a sudden situation, the needs of groups like ours could easily be ignored and our community never felt so vulnerable.
」天门艾滋感染者刘全有大学专业是传播，他考虑过在网上发出求助。
"Tianmen AIDS infected Liu Quan has a university major in communications, and he has considered sending out help online.
但当他看到网友「化妆师邹俊熙」的遭遇后，打消了念头。
But when he saw netizens "makeup artist Zou Junxi" after the experience, gave up the idea.
那人与他情况几乎一样，同样是天门人，在微博求助后，民警上门核实，感染的事因此被家人得知，他还遭遇了大量的网络暴力，最后清空并注销了微博。
The man, who was almost identical to him, was also a Tien Men. After the Weibo call, the civilian police came to the house to verify that the infection had been reported to his family. He also suffered a great deal of cyber violence, which culminated in the clearance and cancellation of Weibo.
刘全有能做的事情，就是在家里打电话，一遍遍地给天门市疾控中心打电话。
Liu Quan has the ability to do is to call the CDC over and over again at home.
无人接听。
No one answered.
后来他才知道，整个艾防科室的人几乎被调去处理肺炎疫情了。
Later, he learned that the entire Ai defense department was almost transferred to deal with the pneumonia epidemic.
《人物》据多个渠道了解，湖北各疾控中心情况都大致如此。
"People" according to a number of sources, Hubei CDC situation is roughly the same.
大年初三，在打了十几个电话之后——每一个电话都要避开家人注意——疾控中心终于有人接听了，对方告诉他，这个事情现在交给市第一人民医院的一位主任来处理了。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, after making a dozen phone calls -- every call had to be avoided by family members -- the CDC was finally heard and told that the matter was now being handled by a director of the First People's Hospital in the city.
他打去电话，又不通了。
He called, but he couldn't get through.
他看了看自己的药。
He looked at his medicine.
倒数计时的闹钟悬在他的头顶，还有5天。
The countdown alarm clock hung over his head for five days.
很快他将知道，电话打通，只是过了第一关。
Soon he'll know that the call was through, just past the first level.
变通措施武汉封城这天开始，黄豪杰就不断接到艾滋感染者断药的求助，每天几十个。
Wuhan sealing measures began this day, Huanghaojie continued to receive AIDS patients to stop the drug help, dozens of every day.
他知道他的春节假期提早结束了。
He knew that his Spring Festival was over early.
作为武汉同志中心的负责人，他与湖北省疾控中心的艾防办的工作人员保持日常联系。
As the head of Wuhan Comrade Center, he maintains daily contact with the staff of EPD of Hubei Province CDC.
事实上，封城发生后，省疾控中心也意识到了问题，迅速推出了变通措施，要求省内各治疗点允许异地艾滋感染者只需填写一份领药申请，即可领药。
In fact, after the siege, provincial CDC recognized the problem, and quickly introduced alternative measures, requiring provincial treatment sites to allow people living with HIV to fill out only one application for a drug.
但湖北的政令难达省外，考虑到那些隔离在外省的感染者，省疾控中心又制作了工作联系函模板，让他们请主治医生签署后，在省外治疗点寻求帮助。
But outside the province of Hubei, the provincial CDC has developed a template for working contact letters for people who are isolated in the provinces, asking them to seek help at out-of-province treatment sites after signing by their attending physicians.
这些措施是在省疾控人员的微信群组内发布的，无法直接抵达感染者社群。
These measures were issued within the micro-letter group of provincial disease controllers and did not directly reach the infected community.
黄豪杰将这些消息不断汇总更新发布到了公号上。
HuangHaoJie these messages continue to aggregate the update published on the official.
整个机构的7个工作人员和2个义工在大年初一回到了岗位。
Seven staff members and two volunteers from the whole organization returned to their posts on the first day of the New Year.
他们四散各地，全部在家办公，从早上10点开始处理个案咨询，每天都忙到晚上11点以后。
They are scattered, work from home, handle case counselling from 10 a.m. and are busy until after 11 p.m. every day.
黄豪杰在微信公号上发出呼吁，标题里写道，「紧急求援，这群人的生死不该被遗忘」。
HuangHaoJie issued a message on the official message, the title reads, "Emergency assistance, the life and death of this group should not be forgotten."
相比以往的温和、谨慎，这一次他行事作风似乎有些过于大胆了，可能触碰到敏感的神经。
More modest and cautious than ever, this time he seemed to be acting too boldly, possibly touching a sensitive nerve.
不像有社交需求的同志社群，再加上讳莫如深的病历，艾滋感染者的社群联结松散得多。
Unlike gay communities with social needs, and with a shrouded medical record, people living with HIV have much looser social ties.
尤其在老家，很多人更是完全切断了与附近病友的联系。
At home, in particular, many have completely cut off contact with their sick friends nearby.
「只是对自己生活的城市比较熟悉一点，对老家这边的话都已经不是很熟了，怎么去找啊，脑子里面一头雾水。
"Just a little familiar with the city they live in, on the home side of the words are not very familiar, how to find ah, the brain inside a fog.
」刘军说。
"said Liu Jun.
像他一样，很多人是靠着网络搜索，看到武汉同志中心发布的消息，才知道异地取药的步骤。
Like him, a lot of people are relying on the network search, see Wuhan gay center released the news, just know the steps in different places to get medicine.
艾滋治疗药物作为处方药，发放前确认病人身份是必要的。
AIDS drugs are prescribed and it is necessary to confirm the identity of the patient before release.
黄豪杰告诉《人物》，曾有大批艾滋感染者的身份信息泄露并遭到勒索威胁，自那以后，出于对隐私权的保护，中国疾控部门调整了对艾滋病人的信息管理权限，异地无法查询。
Huang told People that China's CDC has adjusted its information management rights for people with AIDS because of the protection of the right to privacy after a spate of leaks and blackmail threats.
新规在落实的过程，也发生了某些变形。
There has also been some distortion in the implementation of the new regulations.
比如，本意是为了解决滞留省外感染者领药问题的工作联系函，在湖北省内一些市区领药时，却变成了一个同样必要的文件。
For example, a working letter purporting to address the problem of drug collection by those infected outside the province became an equally necessary document when it was collected in some urban areas of Hubei Province.
某些地方还加上更多的要求，比如确诊报告。
In some cases, additional requirements have been added, such as diagnostic reports.
但新规确实也解决了大量的问题。
But the new rules do solve a lot of problems.
在美国留学、从未在中国领过免费药物的汪树林在某市领到了药。
Wang Lin, who studied in the United States and never received free medicine in China, received his medicine in a city.
被卡住的人也不在少数。
There are many who get stuck.
孝感的刘军卡在工作联系函上。
The filial piety of Liu Jun card in the working contact letter.
在新规尚未推行时，本地疾控中心给他答复，需要请治疗地广州的疾控中心工作人员或者主管医生打电话来证明他的身份。
Before the new rules were introduced, the local CDC gave him an answer, asking the CDC staff or the competent doctor in Guangzhou, the place of treatment, to call him to prove his identity.
他打过广州一个市级和两个区级防治机构电话，无一接通。
He called a municipal and two district-level prevention and control agencies in Guangzhou, none of which was connected.
新规推行后，刘军领药的门槛反而变得更高了。
After the implementation of the new regulations, the threshold for Liu Jun to receive medicine has become even higher.
之前，他只需要找到主管医生打个电话，现在，他不仅要找到他，还需要他签署一封盖章的工作联系函。
Previously, he had only to find the competent doctor to make a phone call, and now he needed not only to find him but also to sign a sealed working contact letter.
「他无非想要证明你的身份，这件事本来就很简单，很多方法，挂号记录、医院的电子检查报告，上面是有姓名的，你再凭身份证一对照片。
"He's just trying to prove who you are. It's a simple thing. There's a lot of things, you know, registered records, electronic hospital reports, there's a name on it, and you get a pair of pictures with your ID card.
没必要搞得这么繁琐，难道一个正常人，谁还拿了这个药去吃啊。
There is no need to be so fussy, is it a normal person, who also took this medicine to eat ah.
」在河北的村里，何旺生告诉自己，按着流程一步步走，尽量先不去想最后要解决的问题——取药，因为不止是他，就连家人也无法迈出屋子。
In the village of Hebei, he told himself to follow the procedure and try not to think about the final problem - getting the medicine - because not only he but also his family could not get out of the house.
他倒是顺利拿到了湖北开出的工作联系函。
He managed to get a working contact letter from Hubei.
但他发现，再往下就走不下去了。
But he found that he could not go any further.
本地疾控中心根本打不通电话。
The local CDC couldn't get through.
即便走到最后一步的人，也可能像湖北武穴的两位感染者一样，被医院告知药不足，要优先供给本地。
Even those who reach the last step, like the two infected people in Hubei Wuxue, are told by the hospital that medicine is insufficient and should be given priority in local supply.
他们需要的是克力芝——国家卫生健康委颁布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》试行版本中，已指出克力芝可试用于新型冠状病毒的抗病毒治疗。
What they need is a trial version of Kaletra, the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme promulgated by the National Health Council, which has indicated that Kaletra can be used as an antiviral treatment for the new coronavirus.
艾滋病治疗药物由省疾控统一下发给各个城市，本身就是限量供应。
AIDS treatment drugs from the province under the unified control of the city is itself a limited supply.
克力芝在免费药中属于二线药，一线药不起作用后才需使用，使用人群有限，储备量更少。
Kaletra is a second-line drug in the free medicine, after the first-line drugs do not work, limited use of the population, less reserves.
1月26日，中国疾控中心发布了《关于保障异地滞留艾滋病病毒感染者免费抗病毒治疗药品的通知》。
On January 26, the China CDC issued the Notice on Guaranteeing Free Antiviral Therapy for People Living with HIV in Other Places.
黄豪杰略感欣慰，「因为有国字头的单位，既然文件下发下来，就带有一定的强制性嘛。
Huang Haojie a little relieved, "because there are Chinese prefix units, since the document under distribution, with a certain degree of mandatory it.
」但他也担忧，正如湖北省疾控中心推出的措施一样，「在底下怎么落实，怎么去传达这个东西，其实还有很多不确定因素。
But he is also worried that, as with the measures launched by the Hubei CDC, "there is a lot of uncertainty about how to implement it and how to communicate it."
」他知道，很多人还将拿不到药，需要回到社群去求助。
"He knew that many people would still be denied medicine and would need to go back to their communities for help.
药品克力芝社群自救民间迅速在行动。
The Kaletra community is quickly moving to save the civilian population.
一个个药物支援群相继成立，病友以快递或者同城交付的方式借出药物，去解救面临断药者的燃眉之急。
One by one, drug support groups have been set up, patients to express or with the way the city to lend out drugs, to save the urgent needs of people facing drug deprivation.
在官方渠道之外，药物流通起来。
Drugs circulate outside official channels.
早在2018年，为解决出门在外的病友临时缺药问题，网友「HIV松鼠哥」在全国多座大中型城市内安置「急救包」，交给值得信赖的病友保管——他称之为「守护者」。
As early as 2018, to solve the problem of temporary drug shortage outside the home, netizens "HIV Squirrel Brother" in a number of large and medium-sized cities throughout the country to put "first aid kits" into the custody of trusted friends - he called "Guardian."
这一次，许多曾被援助过的病友与「守护者」受到他的感召，成为援助者。
This time, many of the sick and "guardians" who had been helped were called to his aid.
山东青岛一名医生「李辉时空」发起「借药公益组织接龙」，重庆、新疆、广西、深圳等全国各个地方的20家机构加入，公布求助方式。
A doctor in Qingdao, Shandong Province, named Li Hui spatiotemporal launched the "Drug Borrowing Public Interest Organization to Connect Long," which was joined by 20 organizations in Chongqing, Xinjiang, Guangxi and Shenzhen.
免费药急救包 图源HIV松鼠哥微博武汉同志中心也建立了药物支援群。
Free first aid kit source HIV Squirrel Cobb Wuhan gay center also set up a drug support group.
在这个50多人的群里，除了工作人员，大家都改了群内称呼。
In this group of more than 50 people, all but the staff changed their names within the group.
「辽宁-舒发泰」意味着人在辽宁，可借出的药物是舒发泰；「武汉-依非」意味着人在武汉，可借出依非韦伦；「鄂州-替依拉」意味着人在鄂州，可借出替诺福韦、依非韦伦、拉米夫定——这是最常见的三联组合。
"Liaoning-Shufat" means that people in Liaoning, can lend out the drug is Shufaatai; "Wuhan-Yi Fei" means that people in Wuhan, can lend Ephelen; "Huzhou-Teiyira" means that people in Hubei state, can lend Tenofovir, Yifilan, Lamivudine - this is the most common triple combination.
1月26日，在武汉同志中心获得基金会批准，可报销病友之间的借药的快递费用后，随后就发现，湖北的快递系统几乎瘫痪了。
The express delivery system in Hubei was almost paralyzed after the Wuhan Gay Center obtained approval from the foundation on January 26 to reimburse courier fees for medicines between sick friends.
打了多家电话，即便客服总台表示可以寄送，揽件的网点没有人上班了。
A number of calls, even if the customer service desk said that can be sent, the Range Rover network no one to work.
揽件成功也不意味着可以发出，「这些快递在我们的站点都已经积压了很多天了，我们的车离不开武昌。
Nor does the success of the Range Rover mean that it can be delivered. "These express deliveries have been piling up on our site for many days and we cannot leave Wuchang without them.
」随着时间推进，情况越来越糟糕，EMS之前还可以寄，到了1月26日的晚上这条路也堵上了，武汉的所有网点关停，到下级县市更无可能。
As time went on and things got worse and worse, the EMS could have sent it back. By the night of January 26, the road was blocked and all branches in Wuhan were closed, even less so in the lower counties.
顺丰倒是可以空运，但不寄药物。
Shunfeng can be transported by air, but not by medicine.
在这种情况下，命运的沙盘发生了反转。
In this case, the fate of the sandbox has been reversed.
原来形势似乎最严峻的何旺生——他困在河北农村的家中，反而更早得到了救助。
He was stranded at his home in rural Hebei province and was rescued earlier, when the situation seemed to be the most serious.
由于物流并不受阻，河南一个病友向他寄出的药已经在路上了。
As the logistics is not blocked, a patient in Henan sent him the medicine has been on the way.
另一方面，武汉同志中心组建了「爱心车队」，运送武汉市内的往返医院取药的艾滋感染者。
Wuhan Comrade Center, on the other hand, set up a "love team" to transport Wuhan city to the hospital to pick up drugs infected with AIDS.
所有网约车在大年夜就全部停了。
All the internet cars stopped on New Year's Eve.
到了年初二，出租车也被政府征用了。
On the second day of the new year, taxis were also requisitioned by the government.
每个社区内分配到三四辆，运力有限，就连接送医务人员的需求也只能部分满足，因此武汉各区都涌现出了志愿者车队。
With three or four vehicles allocated to each community and limited capacity, the need to connect medical staff can only be partially met, resulting in a surge of volunteer convoys in all districts of Wuhan.
黄豪杰没有向他们求助，「很重要的一个原因就是，别人不一定愿意去送艾滋感染者这样的一个社群。
Wong did not turn to them for help. "One important reason is that people are not necessarily willing to give to a community like people living with HIV.
」「爱心车队」里全部是同志或者艾滋感染者。
All the Caravan members are gay or infected with HIV / AIDS.
解决了车的问题，城内道路封锁的问题却是无解的。
The problem of the car was solved, but the problem of the road blockade in the city was solved.
你很难分辨，哪些信息是可以信赖的。
It's hard to tell which information is trustworthy.
汉口、武昌、汉阳三区将各自封锁的消息是一早传出来的，腾讯实时辟谣平台辟了谣。
Hankou, Wuchang, Hanyang District will be the news of the respective blockade early in the morning, Tencent real-time refutation platform of the ballad.
但行驶在路上会发现，封锁正在变成事实。
But on the road, the blockade is becoming a reality.
1月27日，「爱心车队」的司机王建国只在白天时遭遇了盘龙城大桥的一次封锁，晚些时候那座桥就解禁了，但到了1月29日，汉口去往盘龙城区的所有桥都设置了卡点。
On January 27, Wang Jianguo, the driver of the Loving Caravan, was blocked by the Panlong City Bridge only once during the day. The bridge was later lifted, but by January 29, all the bridges from Hankou to Panlong City had been blocked.
想通过卡点，有时需要一点运气，只监测了一下体温就放行了。
Sometimes it takes a bit of luck to get through the card, just monitor the temperature and let it go.
有时需要几句谎言，他会说车上坐的人是慢性病患者，对艾滋感染者的身份守口如瓶。
Sometimes it takes a few lies. He says the people on the bus are chronically ill and keep a tight lid on the identity of people infected with AIDS.
有的卡点网开一面就放人了，有的卡点不管车上是什么人，只看有没有通行证。
Some card points open on the side of the release, some card points regardless of who the car is, only to see if there is a pass.
除非持有公务员或者医务人员的通行证，跨区运输已无可能。
Inter-district transportation is no longer possible unless a civil servant or medical officer has a permit.
但就算把活动范围设置在区内，也会时不时遇上封锁。
However, even if the movement of the area, but also occasionally encountered blockades.
有时是某条主干道，有时是二环与三环之间。
Sometimes a main road, sometimes between the Second Ring Road and the Third Ring Road.
昔日便捷的手机导航失效了。
Convenient mobile phone navigation failed in the past.
变化时刻发生，靠着群内传递的消息，并不准确。
Change happens at a time, and the message passing through the group is not accurate.
有一次，王建国在接到一个取完药的感染者后，才发现原路已无法返回，他只有把感染者搁置到那人在城中的另一处住所。
Once, Wang Jianguo received a drug after an infected person, only to find that the original road could not return, he had to shelve the infected person in the city to another residence.
严格来说，他的车开在路上是违规的。
Strictly speaking, it was illegal for his car to drive on the road.
武汉自1月26日起实行除特定车辆之外的所有机动车禁行，违反者从严从重处罚，直至记12分。
Wuhan has imposed a ban on all motor vehicles except certain vehicles since January 26, with severe penalties up to 12 marks.
但根据防控指挥部的解读，「对禁止通行的机动车通过手机短信形式提前24小时告知车主，未接到短信通知的机动车可以通行」。
However, according to the Control and Prevention Command, "banned motor vehicles are informed 24 hours in advance by text message that motor vehicles not notified by text message are allowed to pass."
除了是「爱心车队」的司机，王建国也在接送医务人员的志愿者车队里。
In addition to being the driver of the Loving Caravan, Wang Jianguo was in a convoy of volunteers carrying medical personnel.
两个车队没有人收到过短信。
None of the two convoys received text messages.
在1月底的时候，他所在的接送医务人员的志愿者车队暂停了服务。
At the end of January, his volunteer convoy carrying medical personnel was suspended.
协调员在群内发了通知，有人已经被扣了12分。
The Coordinator had informed the Group that 12 points had been deducted.
「我们做公益没有办法保证自身，再看后续的政策再决定我们要不要继续做志愿工作。
"There is no way we can guarantee ourselves that we can do the public good, and then follow-up policies determine whether we want to continue volunteering or not."
」他说。
'he said.
最后一步随着时间的推进，城区断药的情况大部分得到了解决。
In the last step, over time, most of the drug problems in urban areas were resolved.
刘军最终也没打通广州的电话。
Liu finally failed to get through to Guangzhou.
但通过武汉同志中心的协助，他的个人信息以省疾控中心对接的方式，得到了确认。
But through the assistance of Wuhan Comrade Center, his personal information was confirmed by docking with the provincial CDC.
他骑着电动车，取到了药。
He got the medicine on his electric bike.
湖北省内村里的情况完全不同。
The situation in the villages in Hubei Province is completely different.
公益机构能帮的忙都帮了，但快递无法抵达，村被封了，附近也找不到可以借药的病友。
Public-interest groups have been able to help, but express delivery can not reach, the village has been sealed, there is no nearby patients to borrow medicine.
相应的文件备齐了，到了取药的最后一步，每个人只有重新各自为战。
The appropriate documents were in place, and at the final step of getting the medicine, everyone had to work on their own.
天门的刘全有发现自己正在尴尬的处境里。
Tianmen Liu Quan found himself in an awkward situation.
他的村子在两地交界处。
His village is at the junction of the two places.
他的路似乎比别人多了一条，既可以去A县，又可以去天门。
His road seems to be one more than others, can go to A county, can go to Tianmen.
两个地方的医院都承诺可以给他药。
Hospitals in both places promised him medicine.
但一条路也行不通。
But one way won't work.
公共交通都没了，有病友确实通过步行3个小时拿到了药。
Public transportation was gone, and some patients did get their medicine by walking for three hours.
他查了地图，他距离天门的取药点有100多公里，走过去要9个小时，即使排除人生地不熟而发生的迷路以及路上拦截的关卡，一大早出门到了那里也下班了。
He checked the map. He was more than 100 kilometers away from Tianmen's pick-up point and it took him nine hours to walk there. Even after he had lost his way and stopped the road, he went out early in the morning and got off work.
更不要说，这么长时间出门在外，如何向蒙在鼓里的家人解释。
Not to mention, so long out of home, how to explain to the family in the dark.
距离A县的取药点倒是近，只有6公里，只隔着一条江。
A county from the drug collection point is close, only 6 kilometers, just across a river.
渡轮停了，跨江大桥上设有路障。
The ferry stopped and there were roadblocks on the bridge across the river.
早在年初一他就知道行不通了，他的舅舅想过桥去探亲，被拦回来。
As early as the New Year's Day, he knew that it would not work, his uncle to cross the bridge to visit, was stopped back.
因为涉及到跨区，需要通行证。
Permits are required because of cross-zone implications.
他不死心，抱着试一试的态度去了跨江大桥。
Reluctantly, he took a try and went across the river bridge.
这次出门，也是冒着风险的。
It was a risky trip.
他向家人撒了谎，说去隔壁村探望一位姑妈。
He lied to his family about visiting an aunt in the next village.
其实两方只要一问起来，谎言就戳破了，他想，如果再问，就说路上遇见了老同学。
In fact, as long as the two sides to ask, a lie burst, he thought, if asked again, on the way to meet an old classmate.
走到桥边，对话几个回合就结束了。
Walking to the bridge, the conversation ended in a few rounds.
「我要去医院。
"I'm going to the hospital.
」「你什么情况？」「我家里的亲人病了。
"" What's the matter with you? "" My family is ill.
」「不行，不行。
"" No, no.
」他不敢再纠缠下去。
"He did not dare to go on.
他再给A县的疾控中心打电话，请求对方送药上门。
He called the CDC in County A again, asking for medicine to be delivered.
「这不现实的，一两百个这样的人要服务，不可能我挨家挨户给你送吧。
"It's not realistic. One or two hundred of these people want to serve, and I can't send them door to door.
」在湖北农村，类似刘全有这样的例子很普遍。
In rural Hubei province, examples like Liu Quan's are common.
荆州的李京成了其中的幸运儿。
Jingzhou's Li Jing became one of the lucky ones.
他告诉《人物》，他能够拿到药，是因为恰好地符合了几个条件。
He told People that he was able to get the medicine because several conditions had been met.
本村封锁不是太严，没有挖沟，没有填土，有物资车来往。
The village blockade is not too strict, there are no trenches, no fill, there are goods and vehicles to and from.
他的邻居是村干部，正好在这辆车上，能够帮助，他只是告诉他，「有个东西很急，在县城里」。
His neighbor, a village cadre, was in the car and was able to help. He just told him, "There's something urgent in the county."
县城里他有个亲戚，可以去取药，交给这位村干部。
In the county he had a relative who could fetch medicine and give it to the village official.
针对农村面临的棘手情况，在武汉同志中心的工作人员群里，讨论紧迫进行着。
In view of the intractable situation facing the countryside, discussions are going on urgently among the staff of the Wuhan Comrade Center.
他们想到了终极解决方法，报警，请警察开车带去医院。
They thought of the ultimate solution, called the police, asked the police to drive to the hospital.
如何向警方解释呢，大家展开讨论，可以称自己有抑郁症，也可以说有糖尿病。
How to explain it to the police? Discuss both views and say you have depression or diabetes.
为此，他们还查了相关资料，准备了一套话术，「青年糖尿病的并发症很快，给他讲一些比较严重的数据」。
To this end, they also checked the relevant information, prepared a set of words, "young diabetes complications quickly, tell him some of the more serious data."
确有感染者用这个方法，成功取得了药。
In this way, infected people have succeeded in obtaining medicine.
但刘全有对这个终极解决方法很排斥，「这个理由感觉好像有点牵强吧。
But Liu Quan is very resistant to this ultimate solution, "this reason seems a bit far-fetched."
万一他觉得我是编造的呢，又怕乱讲搞得更麻烦。
In case he thinks I'm making up, he's afraid to make it harder.
」年初四，一个更糟糕的状况发生了。
Early Thursday, a worse thing happened.
村里出现了一名确诊患者，是在武汉卖菜的菜农。
A confirmed patient appeared in the village, a vegetable farmer selling vegetables in Wuhan.
找借口出门更难了。
Making excuses for going out is harder.
「坐立难安，心态都崩掉了。
"It's hard to sit down. It's all gone.
」刘全有对人物说。
"Liu Quan said to the personage.
倒计时的闹钟不等人，药只有4天了。
Countdown alarm clock not waiting for people, medicine only 4 days.
终于，他做了那件原本以为他根本不敢做的事情，报警。
Finally, he did what he thought he didn't dare do. He called the police.
领药流程图 图源武汉同志中心微信公众号闯关他没有隐瞒艾滋病人的身份，除了个人信息，在电话里，刘全有把他的情况如实陈述了。
Wuhan Comrade Center Weixin Public No. He did not hide the identity of AIDS patients, in addition to personal information, Liu Quan in the telephone, Liu Quan his true state of affairs.
那个电话只是一个开始，他进入到一个复杂的迷宫里。
The call was only the beginning, and he entered a complicated labyrinth.
110建议他跟检疫站指挥中心联系，检疫站指挥中心又让他去找交通部门。
It is recommended that he contact the Quarantine Command Centre, which in turn refers him to the Transport Department.
交通部门电话不通，他又打回110。
The traffic department couldn't get through and he called back 110.
110让他打派出所电话。
110 Tell him to call the station.
找到派出所，对方告诉他，通行证是必要的，让他联系卫生院。
Find the police station, the other side told him that the pass is necessary, let him contact the health center.
兜兜转转，好不容易找到卫生院的电话，对方告诉他，可以开具通行证，但权限只在天门市，无法去A县。
Around the circle, hard to find the hospital telephone, the other side told him that he can issue a pass, but only in Tianmen City, can not go to A County.
他再去找110，对方态度还是很好，又经过再一次内部的反馈，最后回答他，不好意思，确实帮不上忙。
He goes to look for 110, the other side is still very good attitude, and after another internal feedback, finally answered him, sorry, really can not help.
他又打电话天门信访局，对方说可以开证明让他去A县，但需要他带来身份证复印件，原件都不行，「那里不能复印」。
He also called Tianmen Letters and Visits Office, the other side said that he can be issued a certificate to go to A county, but he needs to bring a copy of his identity card, not the original, "there can not be copied."
这意味着，他还要先找一个复印店。
This meant that he had to find a copy shop first.
「这是村里面，我到哪里去找复印的地方？」当他查看了信访局所在的位置后，他哭笑不得，去到那里，和去到天门市医院的距离差不多了。
"This is the village. Where can I find a copy?" When he checked the location of the office, he laughed and cried. He went there about the same distance to the Tianmen City Hospital.
他再次给天门和A县的疾控中心打了一轮电话，寄希望于可以托人代领，对方说，必须本人到场，抽血确认。
He made another round of calls to the CDC in Tianmen and A counties in the hope that someone would be asked to pick them up.
他用了整整两天时间打电话，每一次电话，都要把事情来龙去脉讲一遍，每一次电话，都要冒着极大隐私暴露风险。
He spent two days on the phone, and every time he made a call, he told the whole story. Every time he made a call, he risked his privacy.
最终，他发现自己回到了起点。
In the end, he found himself back to square one.
刘全有发现，他什么也做不了了。
Liu Quan found out that he could do nothing.
他不能在没有任何计划的情况下贸然闯关，见机行事，因为光是出门这件事，「都要找很久的机会，要想很多的理由」。
He could not rush through the gates without any plan, and act quickly, for the mere fact of going out meant "looking for a long time, a lot of reasons."
一旦失败，「有很大被发现的风险」。
In the event of failure, there is a "high risk of discovery."
「太难了，没有任何一个机构可以帮助我。
"It's too difficult for any organization to help me.
虽然我就离疾控中心只有6公里的距离，我现在跟隔个天堑一样。
Although I am only six kilometers away from the CDC, I am now like a graben.
」他说。
'he said.
只有等着断药了。
Just wait for the medicine to die.
还有两天。
Two days to go.
截至1月底，武汉同志中心接到近500宗断药求助，其中80%已找到解决办法，未完结的，是最困难的。
By the end of January, Wuhan Gay and Lesbian Center had received nearly 500 requests for help. Of these, 80 percent had found a solution.
有个案例是，当事人因发烧被隔离了，「除非跟自己的父母摊牌，更没有办法去领药了。
In one case, the patient was quarantined with a fever, "and there was no way to collect the medicine except by showdown with his parents."
」1月31日，武汉同志中心的公号转载了一篇名为《当前不可抗力因素下造成服药中断时该如何处理》的文章。
On January 31, the Wuhan Gay Center published an article entitled "What to do if medication is discontinued due to force majeure."
黄豪杰没有第一时间转发，而是拖了几天，他内心里并不希望把它发出来，多少会传递处悲观的情绪。
Huanghao Jie did not forward the first time, but a few days, he did not want to send it out of his heart, some will convey a pessimistic mood.
但这是一个不得已的选择。
But it is a last resort.
那些看似与断药危机还很遥远的人，也会突然陷入恐慌。
Those who seem distant from the drug crisis will suddenly panic.
那位江苏的大学生谢小剑，将自己的药借了出去。
Xie Xiaojian, a college student from Jiangsu, borrowed his medicine.
他信誓旦旦地告诉对方，不用担心他，他的药够吃。
He vowed to tell the other side not to worry about him, he had enough medicine.
但很快，他就看到家乡所有客运班车无限期停运的消息。
But soon he saw the news that all bus service in his hometown had been suspended indefinitely.
他所在区域疫情并不严重，也早有通知2月3日会上班，他根本无法预料到变化的状况。
He could not have foreseen the change in his region, where the outbreak was not serious and where he had been told to go to work on February 3.
现在，他回不到取药地，而剩下的药不足10天。
Now, he can't get his medication back, and he has less than 10 days left.
更令他沮丧的是，寄出的快件经过3天才抵达省会南京。
To his dismay, the despatch took three days to arrive in Nanjing, the capital.
他援助的那个人，马上要断药了。
The man he helped is about to lose his pills.
他让自己陷入危险，却可能没有改变对方的结果。
He puts himself in danger, but may not change the outcome of the other party.
「无力感、绝望感」，「卑微」，「脆弱」，「边缘群体」，「被遗忘的人」，在《人物》对艾滋感染者的采访中，类似的表述在采访中一再出现。
"A sense of powerlessness, despair," "inferiority," "vulnerability," "marginal group," "forgotten people," similar statements were repeated in interviews with people living with AIDS.
「短期内不好解决，因为它是一个体系的问题。
"It's not easy to solve in the short term because it's a systemic problem.
切断交通，切断物流，并且没有一个很好的应对机制，各方各面都出现了问题，只不过对某一类人群而言，问题比较凸显。
Cutting off traffic, cutting off logistics, and not having a good coping mechanism, all sides have problems, but for a certain group of people, the problem is more obvious.
」黄豪杰说。
"said Huang Haojie.
一位志愿者告诉《人物》，目前能够被他们听到的援助请求，几乎都是来自习惯使用社交网络、有着大学学历的青年人，可能不过是冰山一角。
One volunteer told People that almost all of the requests for help they now hear come from young people who are used to using social networks and have university degrees, and may be just the tip of the iceberg.
而中老年群体、文化水平较低的农民工群体，「不知道怎么去发声」。
The middle-aged and elderly groups, the level of education of the lower migrant workers, "do not know how to voice."
在记者截稿前的最后时刻，刘全有发来消息，事情突然有了转机。
In the press deadline before the last moment, Liu Quan sent a message, things suddenly had a turning point.
完全出乎他的预料。
It was completely out of his expectation.
在还有2天断药的那个晚上，在B市医院当医生的父亲告诉他，B市疫情严重，医院派出救护车接送在外的医务人员回去上班。
On the night of the two-day cut-off, his father, a doctor at the B city hospital, told him that the outbreak was severe in B city and that the hospital had sent out ambulances to take the medical staff back to work.
他抓住机会，说想去A县看望在那里的母亲，请求父亲捎带上他。
He seized the opportunity and said that he wanted to visit his mother in A county and asked his father to take him with him.
于是，混在救护车上，他通过了关卡。
So, mixed in with the ambulance, he passed through the barrier.
图源视觉中国（除黄豪杰外，其他人名为化名。
Graph source vision China (except Huang Haojie, others name is alias.
）。
).
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
断药危机：封城封村之后的艾滋感染者。
Drug crisis: people infected with AIDS after the closure of the city.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "断药危机：封城封村之后的艾滋感染者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; after the closure.
var msg_desc = "「虽然我就离疾控中心只有6公里的距离，现在跟隔个天堑一样。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Although I was only six kilometers from the CDC, it's like a graben.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
