北京：社区防控“不能造成恐慌”。
BEIJING: Community control "must not cause panic."
贺佳雯。
Eugenia Ho.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲北京地坛医院是北京市新冠肺炎定点治疗医院，2020年2月3日，一名护士走过张贴着护士生活照的走廊。
Beijing Ditan Hospital is Beijing's Xinguan Pneumonia designated treatment hospital, February 3, 2020, a nurse walked across the corridor posted a nurse's life photos.
（新华社/图）全文共2934字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2,934 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
于是，各个社区街道办都将摸排返京人员情况当作战“疫”的第一要务。
Thus, each community street office will map the situation of returning to Beijing personnel when fighting "epidemic" the first priority.
封锁小区进出口、只开一个门，人人出入测量体温，联合社区警务室给每一位租户打电话询问......本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 贺佳雯南方周末实习生 任欢欣责任编辑 | 钱昊平2020年2月3日，农历正月初十。
Close the entrance and exit of the district, open only one door, take temperature in and out of everyone, call every tenant to check their temperature... This article was launched at Southern Weekend without authorization.
北京迎来节后首个工作日，因为新冠肺炎疫情的影响，这个假期比往年长了3天。
Beijing's first working day since the holiday, which is three days longer than usual, has been affected by the outbreak of pneumonia in the capital.
晚上9时左右，北京市委、市政府通过政府官网发出了致全市人民的一封信，点明疫情防控进入关键阶段。
At around 9 p.m., the Beijing municipal government, through the official website, issued a letter to the whole city people, pointing out that the prevention and control of the epidemic entered a critical stage.
截至2月4日24时，北京已经累计确诊253例新冠肺炎。
By 2400 hours on February 4, 253 new cases of pneumonia had been diagnosed in Beijing.
比前一天增加了25例。
This represents an increase of 25 cases over the previous day.
从确诊病例来看，相较其他省市，北京不算多，但确诊病例与总人口的比例已高于广东和浙江，疫情防控不可谓不严峻。
In terms of confirmed cases, Beijing is relatively small compared to other provinces and municipalities, but the ratio of confirmed cases to the total population is higher than in Guangdong and Zhejiang.
作为全国政治中心，北京的防疫有其特殊性。
As the national political center, the epidemic prevention in Beijing has its particularity.
北京市委、市政府在信中指出，“北京作为首都，开年后一系列重点工作、重大活动将陆续开启，各项工作更是容不得丝毫懈怠，出不得半点闪失。
"Beijing, as the capital, will have a series of major tasks and activities starting from the year after the opening of the year," the municipal government and municipal government said in a letter.
”疫情发生不久，北京就宣布取消春节期间的庙会活动、取消北京冬奥会首场测试赛，停运省际客运、延迟开学、延迟施工......不过随着节后返京人员增加，北京的疫情防控又迎来了新挑战。
Shortly after the outbreak, Beijing announced it would cancel temple fairs during the Spring Festival, cancel the first test run of the Beijing Winter Olympics, suspend inter-provincial passenger traffic, delay the start of classes and delay construction... But as the number of people returning to Beijing increases after the holiday, Beijing's epidemic prevention and control are facing new challenges.
1修缮“小汤山”“坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战”“七天七夜建成小汤山非典医院彰显铁军风采、再担使命全力护卫首都平安践行国企担当”。
"Seven days and seven nights to complete the construction of the Xiaotangshan SARS Hospital to highlight the style of the iron troops, and to undertake the mission to fully protect the capital safe practice of state-owned enterprises.
2月4日，北京小汤山医院康复中心E区大楼外，横挂若干个写着不同标语的条幅。
On February 4, banners with different slogans were hung across the E building of the Xiaotangshan Hospital Rehabilitation Center in Beijing.
随着疫情由武汉向全国扩散，农历新年之前，小汤山医院的重修工作就已启动。
With the spread of the epidemic from Wuhan to the whole country, the renovation of Xiaotangshan Hospital began before the Lunar New Year.
1月24日，小汤山医院发表声明称，尚未收治新冠肺炎病例，但为改善收治环境和条件，将于近期对部分病房改造升级。
On January 24, Xiaotangshan Hospital issued a statement saying it had not yet admitted new cases of pneumonia, but would upgrade some wards in the near future to improve the treatment environment and conditions.
南方周末记者多次致电小汤山医院，询问改造是否为防控疫情所需，得到的回应为“等卫健委通知”。
Southern Weekend reporter called Xiaotangshan Hospital several times, asked whether the reform is necessary for the prevention and control of the epidemic, the response is "waiting for the health committee notice."
1月29日，北京市卫健委公共卫生处相关人士告诉南方周末记者，“按照防疫惯例，北京作为首都，在任何重大突发公共卫生事件压力之下，首都的(防控)力度只会比别的地儿更大。
"Beijing, as the capital of China, is the capital of China for any major public health emergency and will only be able to control it more than anywhere else," a public health official told Southern Weekend.
”一位北京市级定点医院的医生告诉南方周末记者，其所在的医院已派医生去小汤山医院“考察环境”。
A doctor at the Beijing-level designated hospital told Southern Weekend that his hospital had sent doctors to Xiaotang Shan Hospital to "examine the environment."
“小汤山”在2003年“非典”时期为北京防疫工作做出过巨大贡献。
"Xiaotangshan" in 2003 "SARS" period for the Beijing immunization work has made a great contribution.
用7天时间建好的小汤山医院，在51天里先后收治了680名“非典”患者，死亡8例，病死率不到1.2%，为世界最低，且1383名医护人员没有一人被感染。
Built in seven days, Xiaotangshan Hospital has treated 680 SARS patients in 51 days, resulting in 8 deaths and a mortality rate of less than 1.2 percent, the lowest in the world.
“非典”结束后，小汤山医院的存废在一段时间内产生争议。
"SARS" after the end of the hospital in Xiaotangshan waste in a period of time generated controversy.
最终，原北京市卫生局在2010年4月宣布，拆除小汤山医院的非典病房。
Finally, in April 2010, the former Beijing Municipal Health Bureau announced the demolition of the SARS ward at Xiaotangshan Hospital.
在此次疫情来临之前，小汤山医院已经更名为小汤山康复医院。
Before the outbreak, Xiaotangshan Hospital was renamed Xiaotangshan Rehabilitation Hospital.
孰料十年之后，医院又因一场蔓延全国的传染病疫情成为关注的焦点。
Ten years later, the hospital was again the focus of attention because of an epidemic that spread across the country.
1月30日，北京市卫健委主任雷海潮回应媒体称，目前小汤山医院建筑陈旧，需要更新修缮，提供更好的就诊条件，视疫情变化启用作为补充。
On January 30, Lei Haitiao, director of the Beijing Municipal Health Care Commission, responded to media reports that the building of Xiaotangshan Hospital is old and in need of renovation to provide better access to health care, supplemented by the introduction of the epidemic.
2封不封城?小汤山医院尚在修缮，北京确诊病例每天还在增加。
Two sealed cities? Xiaotangshan Hospital is still under repair, Beijing confirmed cases are increasing every day.
当下需未雨绸缪的是，如何迎接即将到来的返程高峰。
What is needed now is how to prepare for the upcoming return rush.
从春运开始到2月2日，通过铁路、民航离京的人员超过1000万，截至2月2日，回京的大约有200万人，尚有约800万人没有回京。
From the start of the Spring Festival until February 2, more than 10 million people left Beijing by rail and civil aviation. As of February 2, about 2 million people had returned to Beijing.
如何控制、筛查返京人流，是北京面临的一大难题。
How to control and screen the flow of people back to Beijing is a major challenge facing Beijing.
从节前的1月22日起，北京西站已开始在进、出站口给往来旅客测体温。
From January 22 before the festival, the Beijing West Station has started to take temperature at the entrances and exits for travellers.
北京也成了继武汉之后，第一个在城市进出要塞设测温关卡的城市。
Beijing has also become the first city to set up temperature checkpoints in and out of the city, after Wuhan.
北京新冠肺炎疫情的防控工作也是从这一天开始全面铺开。
The prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak in Beijing has also been rolled out since that day.
当天，北京市成立新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组，市委书记蔡奇任领导小组组长，市长陈吉宁任副组长。
On the same day, the Beijing Municipal Government established the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia.
领导小组开的第一场会，明确提出要“维护首都社会大局稳定”。
The first meeting of the Leading Group explicitly called for "safeguarding the stability of the society in the capital."
截至22日18时，北京市确诊新冠肺炎14例。
Up to 18: 00 on the 22nd, Beijing confirmed 14 cases of New Crown Pneumonia.
随着确诊病例的增加，北京的交通关卡不断收缩。
With the number of confirmed cases increasing, traffic barriers in Beijing are shrinking.
1月25日，媒体从北京市交通委得到消息，从1月26日起暂停进出北京的经营性长途客运班线(不含跨市运营的地面公交线路)和旅游包车，恢复时间另行通知。
On January 25, the media received news from the Beijing Municipal Transportation Commission that the operation of long-distance passenger lines (excluding intercity bus lines) and tourist charter cars to and from Beijing would be suspended from January 26 until further notice.
这一举动让生活在北京的人开始紧张，毕竟武汉已经“封城”，他们担心北京也会步武汉后尘。
The move has created tensions among Beijing residents, who fear Beijing will follow suit after Wuhan has already closed the city.
26日，交通委正式发布公告，当天是大年初二，但不少离京者都已紧急返京，并通过微信朋友圈分享自己的动态，他们改签航班、车次的理由都是担心“晚了回不来”。
On July 26, the Transport Committee issued a formal announcement, the day is the New Year's Day, but many people who left Beijing have returned to Beijing emergency, and through micro-friends to share their own dynamics, they signed flights, the reasons are worried about "late return."
北京一些公务员的神经也因交通委的公告开始紧绷，只不过他们的担心有所不一样。
The nerves of some civil servants in Beijing have been strained by the transport commission's announcement, but their fears are not the same.
基层公务员张军(化名)说自己那一天“啥也没干，死盯着手机”，同事们都在微信群里议论会否要求提前返京到岗，毕竟天津当时已要求公务员提前返岗。
Zhang Jun (not his real name), a grass-roots civil servant, said he had "done nothing and was staring at his mobile phone" that day.
他最终收到的消息是，在开工日前，自行安排返京时间。
He eventually received word that he would arrange his own return to Beijing before the start of the project.
市民对“封城”的担忧依旧没有消解，面对传言，1月26日傍晚，北京市交通委副主任容军在发布会上一锤定音:“没有封城，也不会封城。
Faced with rumors that the city was still closed, Hong Jun, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Traffic Committee, hammered it out at a press conference on the evening of January 26.
”但对交通工具、交通运输方式有所限制，可以有效地阻断病毒传播的通道。
However, restrictions on means of transportation and transportation can effectively block the transmission of the virus.
在国新办1月26日举行的发布会上，交通部副部长刘小明特别解释道，原来北京长途客运从正月初一到初四是停运的，初五开始恢复，“现在暂缓了这项工作”。
Liu Xiaoming, vice minister of transport, explained at a press conference on January 26 that the long-distance passenger transport from the first to the fourth day of the first month was suspended.
北京还陆续停飞了不少航班，部分列车临时停运。
Beijing has also stopped a number of flights, some of the train temporary suspension.
1月28日至2月26日，北京铁路局停运列车38趟。
From 28 January to 26 February, the Beijing Railway Administration stopped 38 trains.
1月30日一天，首都机场取消航班546架次，涉及北京往返武汉、襄阳、广州、上海等地。
On January 30, 546 flights were canceled at the capital, involving Beijing commuting to Wuhan, Xiangyang, Guangzhou and Shanghai.
在此之前，北京市教委率先决定大中小学、幼儿园、校外培训机构延期开学。
Prior to this, the Beijing Education Commission took the lead in deciding to postpone classes in schools, kindergartens and extracurricular training institutions.
有北京高校学生收到学校微信通知:“任何学生不得以任何理由，提前返京。
"No student is allowed to return to Beijing early for any reason," a letter from a university student in Beijing said.
”3返京不易尽管没封城，但张军没想到的是，他1月30日返京后，却被拦在了自家小区门外。
It wasn't easy to return to Beijing. But what Zhang didn't expect was that he was stopped outside his own compound after returning to Beijing on January 30.
他居住的图景嘉园位于北京市海淀区西北旺镇，居委会要求他在外自行隔离14天，开具健康证明，才能入住。
His picture Jiayuan is located in Wangzhen, northwest of Haidian District, Beijing. He was asked by the neighborhood committee to isolate himself outside for 14 days and to issue a health certificate.
被拦下的不止张军，那两天，许多“北漂”在微信朋友圈中诉苦回京不易，有的地方甚至采取封村封路的极端做法。
Zhang Jun was not stopped, that two days, many "north drift" in the micro-letter circle of friends to complain back to Beijing is not easy, some places even adopt the extreme practice of sealing the village road.
连日的战“疫”中，北京一再强调社区防控的重要作用，临近返京高峰时，又数次重申其紧迫性。
After days of fighting, Beijing has repeatedly stressed the importance of community control and has reiterated its urgency several times as it approaches the peak of its return to Beijing.
北京市疫情防控工作领导小组里就于1月30日增设了一个社区防控组。
On January 30, a community prevention and control group was added to the Beijing Leading Group for Disease Control and Prevention.
此前一天，领导小组制定的社区(村)防控工作试行方案中明确指出，社区防控要实施群防群治、联防联控，网格化、地毯式管理。
The previous day, the Leading Group developed a pilot community (village) prevention and control programme clearly stated that community control to implement group control, joint control, grid, carpet management.
朝阳区一街道办工作人员对南方周末记者说，当天晚上他们就收到了方案，紧接着加紧部署专门针对返京人员的社区防控工作。
A street office worker in Chaoyang told Southern Weekend that they had received the program that evening and stepped up community control efforts aimed specifically at returning residents.
事实上，在1月28日北京市委市政府下发的关于进一步做好防疫工作的通知里已经指出:“全市确诊病例逐步攀升，疫情出现由输入期转入扩散期的迹象。
In fact, the notice issued by the Beijing Municipal Government on January 28 on the further improvement of epidemic prevention has pointed out that "the number of confirmed cases in the city is gradually increasing and there are signs that the epidemic is shifting from the period of importation to the period of spread.
春节后返京大人流即将到来，防疫工作到了紧要关头。
After the Spring Festival back to Beijing large crowds are coming, immunization work to a critical juncture.
”北京市委组织部副部长张革还强调:“区领导要包街道、乡镇，街道乡镇班子成员要包社区、村，实现333个街道乡镇和7000余个社区、村全覆盖。
Zhang Ge, vice-minister of the organizing department of the Beijing Municipal Party Committee, also stressed that district leaders should package streets and townships, and that members of the township squad should contract communities and villages so that 333 streets, towns and more than 7,000 communities and villages can be covered.
”于是，各个社区街道办都将摸排返京人员情况当作战“疫”的第一要务。
"So, each community street office will map the situation of returning to Beijing personnel when fighting" epidemic "the first priority.
封锁小区进出口、只开一个门，人人出入测量体温，联合社区警务室给每一位租户打电话询问......所幸，返京人员与街道办之间的胶着状态在1月31日得到缓解。
Close the entrances and exits of the area, open only one door, take temperature in and out of everyone, call every tenant from the United Community Police Office and ask... Fortunately, the stalemate between the Returning People and the Street Office eased on January 31.
北京市民政局副局长赵济贵是日在新闻发布会上表示，返京人员没有疫情症状的，可以正常进入小区，但是要戴口罩、测体温，做好防护措施。
Zhao Ji-gui, deputy director of the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau, said at a news conference today that those returning to Beijing who do not have symptoms can enter the area normally, but wear masks, take temperature tests and take protective measures.
赵济贵说，但是也有一些社区在执行过程中太严了，对于这些现象“我们会及时劝阻，让其改正”，“不能造成恐慌，或者带来无形的压力”。
But there are also communities that are too strict in their implementation, Zhao said. "We will try to dissuade them in time to correct them," and "not cause panic or invisible pressure."
但派出所、街道办、社区卫生中心并没有因此松一口气。
But police stations, street offices, community health centers have not breathed a sigh of relief.
朝阳区委开始“敲门行动”后，截至2月2日24时，全区入户走访155万户，走访人数3878534人，基本实现全知晓。
As of 2400 hours on February 2, 1.55 million households in the region had been visited by 3878534 people, all of whom were basically aware.
“上头千条线，到我们底下就一根针。
The first thousand threads, a needle under us.
”前述朝阳区一街道办工作人员指了指办公桌上的一沓文件:“也就10天，市委市政府的、市委组织部的、区政府的、公安局的......每天都有文件送来，基层压力确实不小。
One of the office workers in Chaoyang District pointed to a wad of documents on his desk: "In just 10 days, documents are coming in from the city government, the city government, the local government and the public security bureau... and there is a lot of pressure at the grassroots level.
”“北京作为首都，在社区防疫工作上不能有丝毫的马虎。
"Beijing, as the capital, cannot afford to be careless in its community vaccination efforts.
”赵济贵说，“大家的相互支持是打赢这场防疫战的群众基础。
"Mutual support is the basis of winning the battle against epidemic diseases," Zhao said.
”2月3日起，北京已不再要求无湖北接触史人员居家隔离14天再上班，返京人员陆续走进家门。
"Since February 3, Beijing has stopped requiring people with no contact with Hubei to work for 14 days without being separated from their families, and people returning to Beijing have been coming in.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北京：社区防控“不能造成恐慌”。
BEIJING: Community control "must not cause panic."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "北京：社区防控“不能造成恐慌”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Beijing: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“及时劝阻，让其改正”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "promptly dissuaded from correcting" & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
