回武汉第二天封城、发烧，一个青年导演的自救口述。
Back to Wuhan the second day of closure, fever, a young director of self-help oral.
何豆豆。
He Doudou.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月29日，钱珵戴着用文件袋改装的面罩，在医院抽完血后自拍。
On 29 January Qian wore a metal mask converted from a paper bag and took pictures after the blood was exhausted in the hospital.
（受访者供图/图）全文共4492字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
(The full text is 4492 words. It takes about 10 minutes to read.
这次疫情有影响到我最近写剧本的内容，我会把主角都改成比较普通的人。
This outbreak has affected the content of my recent screenplay, I will change the protagonist to more ordinary people.
每一天所有感动我们的东西全部来自我身边的普通人。
Every day all the things that move us come from the ordinary people around me.
我的朋友们都在做志愿者，去解救那些在家里困着的小动物，跑去送口罩，接送医生上下班。
My friends are volunteering to save small animals stranded at home, run to send masks and take doctors to and from work.
我爸妈也是，帮家里一个没人照顾的瘫痪了的同学，他老婆被隔离在其他城市了，我爸妈每天帮忙送饭。
My parents, too, helped a crippled classmate who was left to fend for himself. His wife was quarantined in another city. My parents helped deliver food every day.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特约撰稿 何豆豆责任编辑 | 刘悠翔青年导演钱珵毕业于北京电影学院摄影系，武汉人，在北京从事影视工作。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint the newspaper He Bean, the responsible editor and young director of Liu Yuxiang's metal working for Beijing Film Academy, a Wuhan native who worked in film and television in Beijing.
1月21日，钱珵参加的电影项目有了眉目，她坐火车从北京回武汉过年。
On 21 January the projects in which Qian participated came into play and she returned to Wuhan by train for the New Year.
火车上，钱珵在朋友圈看到大量关于疫情暴发的文章。
On the train, Qian saw a lot of articles about the outbreak in his friends' circle.
此前，就有中国台湾、香港地区和美国的朋友发相关报道给她看，说注意到“那边很可怕”。
Earlier, friends from Taiwan, Hong Kong and the United States had posted stories about it, saying it was "terrible over there."
钱珵回复：“没事，我12月份就听武汉的亲人、朋友说这个事。
"Nothing happened," Qian said. "I listened to relatives and friends in Wuhan in December.
”回到武汉，钱珵发现事情似乎比她想象得严重。
Back in Wuhan, Qianjid found that the events seemed to be more serious than she had imagined.
1月24日晚上是除夕夜，钱珵一家吃年夜饭，只有她一个人戴口罩。
On the evening of January 24, the metal family ate New Year's Eve and only she wore a mask.
口罩是她白天出门买的，晚上武汉的长辈们见到她，说：“怕什么，昨天晚上我们还打麻将，你在北京待胆小了。
The mask she bought during the day, Wuhan elders saw her at night, said: "Fear what, last night we also played Mahjong, you treat Beijing timid.
”大年初一全家出去囤货，回来后钱珵就发烧了。
"On the first day of the New Year the whole family went hoarding and then Qian's fever returned.
在自我隔离的这些天里，她经历了一个普通疑似病患的心理情绪过程：焦虑、恐惧、后悔。
During these days of self-isolation, she experienced the emotional processes of a common suspected patient: anxiety, fear, and regret.
也感受到了武汉医院的紧张程度，看到了医护人员的艰难和崩溃。
Also felt the degree of tension in Wuhan hospital, saw the difficulties and collapse of medical staff.
作为导演，她用自己的相机拍摄了这一切，在观察自己身体状况的过程中也为这场疫情做一些记录。
As a director, she took all this with her own camera and recorded the outbreak as she watched her body.
2月3日，钱珵接受南方周末采访，以下是她的口述，小标题为编者所加。
On 3 February Qianjid was interviewed by Southern Weekend. The following is her oral statement, subtitle given by the Editor.
1月29日，武汉一家非定点医院，市民在医院排队检查身体，其中老年患者居多。
January 29, Wuhan, a non-designated hospital, the public in the hospital line up for physical examination, the majority of elderly patients.
（受访者供图/图）1为什么我要跑回来武汉人本来胆就很大，爱玩、豪爽、江湖气重。
Why do I have to run back Wuhan people would have been very bold, like to play, cool, Jiangshui heavy.
他们一开始觉得我太矫情了，说：我们“非典”的时候每天都抽烟打麻将，有什么呀，这难道比“非典”还严重吗？这个事情果然就比“非典”严重。
At first, they thought I was too affectionate. They said, We smoke and play Mahjong every day when we are SARS.
武汉人一开始没有提高警惕是因为辟谣了。
Wuhan people at first did not increase vigilance because of rumor.
说不会人传人，可防可控，还把造谣的人给抓了。
They say they can't be passed from person to person, they can be controlled, and they catch the rumor-mongers.
原本武汉人刚听到新闻可能有点紧张，但是辟谣了这事就过了，再有人提这个事情的时候，武汉人反而会觉得是你们知道晚了，你们现在知道的还是那时候的事。
Wuhan people may have just heard the news may be a little nervous, but refuted the rumors of this matter, and when this matter was mentioned, Wuhan people will think that you know it is late, you now know it is still at that time.
当时我朋友圈的武汉人都在转一张图，那张图上写着，全世界都说中国是疫区，中国人都说武汉是疫区，只有武汉人还在聚会、吃烧烤，懒得搭理你们。
At that time, Wuhan people in my circle of friends were turning over a picture, which said that the whole world said China is an epidemic area, the Chinese all say Wuhan is an epidemic area, only Wuhan people are still gathering, eating barbecue, lazy to pay attention to you.
我回到武汉那一天，上网看了很多信息以后，发现这个事情挺严重的。
I returned to Wuhan that day, the Internet read a lot of information, found that this matter is quite serious.
我记得吃完饭我还跟我妈吵架。
I remember fighting with my mom after dinner.
当天我妈没戴口罩就跑到花鸟市场，买了一堆绿植鲜花回来装饰。
My mother went to the market without a mask and bought a bunch of green flowers to decorate it.
我就跟他们吵，说：你们太没有防护意识了。
I would argue with them, saying, You are too defenseless.
我还发了一个朋友圈，在朋友圈里求助：我家里人不戴口罩怎么办？劝他们也不听。
I also sent out a circle of friends, in the circle of friends to help: My family do not wear masks? Advise them not to listen.
1月22日晚上，因为跟我妈吵架，我气得一直没睡着，就一直看手机。
January 22 night, because of quarrel with my mother, I have been angry has not fallen asleep, has been looking at the mobile phone.
23日凌晨两点钟，我在微博上看到一个封城的通知，说早上十点会封城。
At 2 a.m. on the 23rd I saw a notice on Weibo that the city would be closed at ten in the morning.
还有8个小时就要封城。
Eight hours to go.
我准备出逃，大半夜把我爸妈还有我妹妹全部摇醒，开家庭会议。
I'm going to run away and shake up my parents and my sister in the middle of the night and have a family meeting.
我当场就买票，劝他们跟我去北京。
I bought tickets on the spot and advised them to follow me to Beijing.
但是我妈作为一个老共产党员把我劝住了。
But my mother persuaded me as an old communist.
我妈说，不行，这时候我们怎么能走呢，给我发了通知了，说我们不能离开。
My mother said, no, how can we get away at this moment? I've been notified that we can't leave.
她给我进行了一番思想教育，就待着吧。
She gave me a little ideological education, so stay with me.
结果一看网上不能退票，只能到窗口退票，我就在封城那一天目睹了武汉火车站的情况。
One look at the Internet can not refund tickets, can only be returned to the window, I saw the day of the closure of Wuhan railway station.
我买了早上八点钟的票，早上六点钟就去火车站排队退票，看到很多人提着箱子。
I bought tickets at eight o'clock in the morning, and at six o'clock in the morning I went to the train station to get a refund.
当时有很多人告诉我，现在这时候往外走的很多人，是已经生病了的人。
There were a lot of people who told me that a lot of people who were going out at this time were already sick.
因为当时的情况是武汉的医疗资源是极其不够的，大量的医院都已经饱和了。
Because the situation at the time is Wuhan's medical resources are extremely inadequate, a large number of hospitals have been saturated.
当时的武汉还没有足够的试剂盒和试纸，所以很多人已经病得很严重了也无法确诊，医院也没有办法。
Wuhan at the time did not have enough test kits and paper, so many people are already very sick can not be diagnosed, the hospital can not do.
这些被拒诊的人要么就只能待在家里，要不然就想到外地去求医。
Those who were denied medical treatment either stayed at home or sought medical treatment elsewhere.
一看马上要封城的消息，他们就在那之前赶紧连夜跑掉了。
Seeing the news that the city was about to be closed, they ran away overnight just before that.
我当时非常害怕，我就戴了个一次性口罩，当时火车站人很多。
I was so scared that I wore a disposable mask when the train station was crowded.
我在那一边排队，一边后悔，我想为什么我现在要跑到这里来感染病毒。
I lined up on the other side, regretting why I was running here to get the virus.
退完票以后我跟我爸去采购。
I went shopping with my dad after the refunds.
早上商店都开门了，大家就开始囤货，因为封城以后肯定会出现物价上涨、买不到口罩的情况。
When the shops opened in the morning, people began to hoard supplies because prices would surely rise and masks would not be bought.
囤完货回来，我就发烧了。
I have a fever since the arrival of the goods.
1月29日，武汉一家非定点医院，医护人员全副武装正在消毒。
On January 29, Wuhan, a non-designated hospital, medical personnel are heavily armed is disinfecting.
（受访者供图/图）2那个医生都快哭了那天是大年三十，晚上看春晚，我一直觉得很冷，喉咙很痒痒，测体温后发现是37.6度，非常恐慌。
It was New Year's Eve. I had been feeling very cold and itching my throat. After taking my temperature, I found it was 37.6 degrees and panicked.
那个时候我在想，我可能是去火车站的时候被感染了，而且我从北京回武汉的时候也没有戴口罩。
At the time, I was thinking that I might have been infected when I went to the railway station, and I didn't wear a mask when I returned from Beijing to Wuhan.
因为我们刚搬家，家里没有任何的药。
Because we just moved, we don't have any medicine at home.
这边的药店大多下午五点就关门了，开车很久很久，只有一两家药店开门，进去以后几乎所有的药都被一抢而空，导致前两天我没有药吃。
Most pharmacies here close at five in the afternoon, driving for a long time. Only one or two pharmacies open, and almost all the drugs are emptied, leaving me without medicine for the last two days.
到第二天，我有一个好朋友的妈妈知道了。
The next day, I had a good friend's mother know.
她是一线医院工作人员，呼吸科的医生，她说绝对不能掉以轻心，一定要让我跟家里人隔离开，在家里要戴口罩，所以我在家里过起了疑似病例的生活。
She was a front-line hospital worker and respirator. She said she must not take it lightly. I had to be kept away from my family and wear a mask at home, so I had a suspicious life at home.
我好朋友说，你家没有药是不行的，他大半夜送药过来。
My good friend said that you can't do without medicine in your house. He sent the medicine in the middle of the night.
送药的过程，就像玩生化危机一样，他开车开到院子门口，把药丢进我们家院子里，空投，我爸再到那把药拣回来。
He drove to the gate of the yard, threw the medicine into our yard, dropped it by air, and my father went back there to pick it up.
朋友说这症状非常危险，因为你一上来就是发烧，就说明你不是受凉了。
Friends say this symptom is very dangerous, because you come up with a fever, that means you are not cold.
如果你是着凉的话，你会先鼻塞、先流鼻涕，但是你没有。
If you catch a cold, you'll have a stuffy nose and a runny nose first, but you don't.
你一上来就发冷，说明你的身体是被一种病毒入侵了，你的免疫力正在和它打架，所以就导致你一直在低烧，也没有什么太多的症状，只有喉咙痒和胃寒，这就很典型了。
You get cold when you come up, it means your body is invaded by a virus, your immunity is fighting it, so you have a low fever, not too many symptoms, only throat itching and stomach cold, this is typical.
我吃了药以后也没有好，一直发烧了六天，每一天都是低烧的状态，吃了各种各样的药。
I did not take medicine after the fever for six days, every day is a low-fever state, took a variety of drugs.
发烧期间我觉得我要死了。
During the fever I felt like I was going to die.
我的心情先开始是恐慌，恐慌就导致愤怒，我就开始边看新闻边骂：为什么要瞒报这种情况，把人害死了！如果是公开透明的话，像我这种人我就不会回来，我就可以避免。
My mood began with panic, panic led to anger, and I began to read the news and scold: Why should I hide this fact and kill people! If it was transparent, people like me would not come back and I could have avoided it.
我如果真的感染上了，就完全是受害者，我是一个在封城前一天从北京跑过来的人。
If I do get infected, I'm a complete victim. I'm a man who ran from Beijing the day before the cityscape.
但是朋友们跟我讲，你现在不能再这么生气了，恐慌加生气会让你的免疫力变得更低。
But my friends tell me that you can't be so angry now. Panic and anger can make your immunity lower.
你现在如果真的已经感染上了，那就纯靠免疫力来扛，如果你现在每天情绪不稳定的话，免疫力就会更低。
If you're really infected now, it's based solely on immunity, and if you're feeling unstable every day, your immunity will be lower.
我开始随手拍一些东西，记录一下我的生活。
I began to take random pictures of my life.
我觉得自己这个经历还真挺戏剧化的，好不容易回到武汉，封城了，我发烧了，后来去了医院——我烧到第六天的时候，实在觉得害怕，就硬着头皮找了一家人很少、比较偏的医院。
I felt that my experience was really dramatic, I returned to Wuhan, closed the city, I had a fever, and then went to the hospital--I burned to the sixth day, really afraid, so I forced the family to find a small, more distant hospital.
我必须要查血，必须要拍胸片我才知道我是不是这个问题，要不然我一直提心吊胆。
I have to get blood. I have to take a chest film before I know if I have a problem, or I'm afraid.
去那家医院以后，排队排了很久。
After going to the hospital, there was a long queue.
其实那家医院已经相对来说人不多了，也排了很久。
In fact, that hospital has been relatively few people, also long queuing.
我亲眼见证了这边有很多的人感染了，但是没有确诊，并且没有办法住院，真的就是被劝回家了。
I've seen a lot of people here get infected, but there's no diagnosis, and there's no way to be hospitalized, so I'm being persuaded to go home.
我排队的时候，我前面有三四个患者都是一直在咳嗽，胸片的情况也非常不好。
There were three or four patients in front of me who had been coughing while I was standing in line, and my chest was in very bad shape.
医生一直在跟他们说：你这个情况，我们医院没有确诊资格，你们再去有资格确诊的医院排队可能要排一两天，因为那里试剂盒也不太够。
The doctors kept telling them, You're in a situation where we don't qualify, and it could take you a day or two to wait in line at a hospital that qualifies for diagnosis, because there are not enough kits.
但是我可以告诉你们，你们就是这个病，你们现在所有的症状和情况，包括你的肺片的情况已经很严重了。
But I can tell you that you are suffering from this disease and that all your symptoms and conditions, including your lungs, are already very serious.
你一定要想办法找个地方去住院，不要再去协和（医院），不要再去同济（医院）了，那里都满了。
You have to find a place to stay, don't go to Concorde, don't go to Tongji, it's full.
其实，这些人已经找遍那些医院了才过来这家医院。
In fact, these people have been looking for the hospitals before they come to this hospital.
但这家医院说他们没有隔离收治资格，让他们再继续找。
But the hospital said it had no quarantine and asked them to continue looking.
家属把老头老太太搀扶着颤巍巍走出去，也不知道他们能不能找到地方去住院。
The family held the old man and the old woman trembling and wondered if they could find a place to be hospitalized.
也有家属情绪非常激动，大喊：什么才叫定点医院，定点医院我们过去以后人排队都排到后天了。
There were also family members who were very excited and shouted: What's the designated hospital? Order a hospital We used to line up until the day after tomorrow.
医生很无奈，说我们也没有办法，因为我们这里确实没有资格。
The doctor is very helpless, said we also have no way, because we really do not qualify here.
我只是在那边排了一会儿队就已经看到了这样的情况。
I was just waiting there for a while and the queue was already seeing it.
我不是全程在排队，我只是排队拿了一下我的号就赶紧走了，到外面等，等到号差不多快到我的时间才进去，我不敢在那里一直待着，那里全是病人。
I didn't stand in line all the way, I just lined up to take my number and hurried outside to wait until it was almost time for me to get in. I didn't dare stay there all the time.
我拍完胸片验完血，拿报告单回去复诊。
I took a chest X-ray blood test, take the report back to the re-examination.
过去找医生的时候已经没有多少病人了，我正好听见医生在抱怨，他都快哭了，跟护士说：我今天其实就是值了一天发热门诊，我的价值观、人生观要崩塌了。
There were not many patients when I went to the doctor. I happened to hear the doctor complaining. He was about to cry. He told the nurse, I was actually worth a day of febrile clinics today and my values and outlook on life were about to collapse.
这是他的原话，他用武汉话讲的。
This is what he said. He said it in Wuhan.
他说居然有这么多的人感染，我今天就看了六个小时，从中午十二点到现在，来一个就是一个，而且居然有那么多重症患者，找不到地方住院。
He said so many people are infected, I watched today for six hours, from 12 noon to the present, one is one, and there are so many serious patients, can not find a place to hospitalize.
医生说我可能是甲流什么的，胸片情况还好，给我开了一些抗病毒的药让我自己回家继续隔离，继续休息，其实也算是一个轻症疑似病例。
The doctor said I might be A-liu or something, but the chest film was fine, I was given some antiviral drugs to keep me in isolation and continue to rest, which is a mild case of suspicion.
买不到防护品，钱珵把文件袋改装成简易面罩。
Unable to buy protective goods, Qian changed the newspaper bag to a simple mask.
（受访者供图/图）3失业了我们能干点什么我本来打算二月份过完年以后赶紧回北京，把一个电影项目敲定，看看能不能立项，包括现在我们公司的另外的一个项目，其中也会有我的一个剧集，也是二月份回去以后就开剧本会。
What can we do about it I had planned to go back to Beijing in February after the New Year and finalise a film project to see if it could be finalised, including another project now with my company, which will also have a play for me when I go back in February.
我现在过不去了，只能远程开会。
I can't get through now. I have to meet remotely.
因为我是新导演，对新导演来说，你有一个项目能赶紧定下来的话，争取时间很重要。
Since I'm a new director, it's important for the new director to gain time if you have a project that can be finalized quickly.
因为我们做院线电影，也不是发月工资的，青年导演其实属于自由职业。
Because we do the movie, also not pay the monthly salary, the young director actually belongs to the liberal profession.
我本来有一个网剧，其中有一个单元剧本都已经写完了，找到资金就开始启动，现在已经半个多月没有和我们联系了。
I originally had a network play, one of the unit script has written, found the funds to start, now has not been contacted with us for more than half a month.
还有一个国外的运动品牌广告，说过完年以后就开始聊，我指望能拍那个广告稍微有一点收入，但是也没有音讯了。
There was also a foreign sports brand advertisement saying we would start talking after the end of the year, and I expected to make a little bit of money for that ad, but nothing came of it.
而且它是国外的广告品牌，原本是带着资金过来，想弄一个系列，也不知道现在还会不会有这个资金过来。
And it is a foreign advertising brand, originally with funds to come over, would like to get a series, do not know whether there will now be this money to come.
现在流量其实没有效果了，观众对那一套东西没有那么热衷了。
Now the flow is actually no longer effective, the audience is not so enthusiastic about that set of things.
我喜欢电影就是因为电影可以时常给我们带来安慰，我也希望自己拍的东西能够给人带来安慰。
I like movies because they can bring us comfort from time to time, and I hope that what I do can be comforting.
我不喜欢非常无脑的那种自欺欺人式的安慰，我会希望一个东西里有说到现实层，但是最后的结果导向，还是能够安慰人心的。
I don't like that very brainless kind of self-delusion. I would like to see a real side to something, but the end result orientation is comforting.
4互相搭救彼此这些天，我感受到了温暖也感受到了恶意。
Save each other these days, I feel the warmth and the malice.
有些很冷漠的人，我都给拉黑了，每次发一些事情，都是朋友圈的一次洗礼。
Some very cold people, I have been black, every time some things, are a baptism of friends circle.
网上一些人的言论说：都是武汉人把我们害成这样，然后你们还到处乱跑。
Wuhan people have done this to us, and then you are still running around, some people on the Internet said.
我就在想，我们谁会跑出去故意感染你们呢？市长说500万武汉人离开了武汉。
I was just thinking, who are we going to run out to infect you? The mayor said five million Wuhan people left Wuhan.
除了封城前一天晚上以外，其他时间大家就是正常出行，根本不知道。
Except for the night before the closure of the city, everyone was travelling normally, not knowing at all.
还有像我这种人，从外地跑回武汉的，跑回武汉来发烧，因为我们根本不知道。
There are people like me, from other places back to Wuhan, run back to Wuhan to have a fever, because we do not know.
有人觉得这500万武汉人都因为听到疫情的原因就跑出来祸害大家，其实根本不是这样，我们也是受害者。
Some people think that the five million Wuhan people because of the reason to hear the epidemic to run out to harm everyone, in fact, not at all, we are also victims.
我很亲密的朋友，就有三四家去外地被赶出来了，我这些天都在和他们联系。
Three or four of my closest friends have been driven out of the country, and I've been in touch with them these days.
有两个人，她和她朋友去成都玩。
There are two people, she and her friends to play in Chengdu.
她去的时候根本不知道这个情况，就是正常出去玩。
When she went there, she had no idea that it was a normal outing.
去了成都以后，武汉宣布封城第二天，他们就被成都的酒店赶出来了，不让他们住了，因为他们是武汉人。
After going to Chengdu, Wuhan announced the second day of the closure of the city, they were driven out of Chengdu hotel, do not let them live, because they are Wuhan.
他们拿着武汉的身份证到各个地方都住不了酒店，然后联系了一家民宿。
They took Wuhan identity cards to various places can not stay in the hotel, and then contact a residential.
但是民宿在小区里面，小区是不放他们进去的。
But the residents live in the small area, the community is not allowed to let them in.
他们第一个晚上都在网吧待着，我那个朋友有一点发烧的情况，她就赶紧去医院看了，她专门去找那种可以测试的医院，直接测试纸，测完以后是阴性的，没有感染。
They spent the first night in the Internet cafe, my friend has a little fever, she quickly went to the hospital, she can test the kind of hospital, directly test paper, after the test is negative, no infection.
尽管没有感染，她拿着报告还是没有任何宾馆收她。
Despite the fact that she was not infected, she had no hotel to receive her with the report.
他们现在待在成都，也不能回武汉，其实被困在外面了，无家可归。
They now stay in Chengdu, can not go back to Wuhan, in fact trapped outside, homeless.
我还有个朋友，她和她老公是封城之前开车去的哈尔滨。
I also have a friend. She and her husband drove to Harbin before the city was closed.
我的那个朋友是在医院工作的，是护士长。
My friend works in a hospital. He's the head nurse.
她当时请的是年假，因为他们医院不是定点医院，所以不是那么忙。
She was on annual leave because their hospital was not a scheduled hospital, so she was not so busy.
他俩在哈尔滨也是到处被赶。
They were driven everywhere in Harbin, too.
我有朋友是武汉的医生，他们真的是戴着墨镜去上班。
I have friends who are Wuhan doctors, they really wear sunglasses to work.
因为没有护目镜，他们戴着墨镜上岗，医院的物资一直跟不上。
With no goggles and sunglasses on, hospitals have been unable to keep up with supplies.
一般如果医院物资缺乏应该向上级汇报，他们在网上求助，最关键的是他们已经等不及了，所以直接向外发。
Usually if the lack of hospital supplies should be reported to superiors, they help online, the most critical is that they have been unable to wait, so directly to outsource.
这次疫情有影响到我最近写剧本的内容，我会把主角都改成比较普通的人。
This outbreak has affected the content of my recent screenplay, I will change the protagonist to more ordinary people.
每一天所有感动我们的东西全部来自我身边的普通人。
Every day all the things that move us come from the ordinary people around me.
我的朋友们都在做志愿者，去解救那些在家里困着的小动物，跑去送口罩，接送医生上下班。
My friends are volunteering to save small animals stranded at home, run to send masks and take doctors to and from work.
我爸妈也是，帮家里一个没人照顾的瘫痪了的同学，他老婆被隔离在其他城市了，我爸妈每天帮忙送饭。
My parents, too, helped a crippled classmate who was left to fend for himself. His wife was quarantined in another city. My parents helped deliver food every day.
我在朋友圈写过这句话：“在苦难当中的众生，承受苦难的众生，恰好也是互相搭救彼此的众生。
I wrote this in my circle of friends: "The beings who suffer, the beings who suffer, happen to be one another's rescuers.
”大家在互相自救着，所以他们会有一种无法被剥夺的作为人的尊严。
"People are helping each other, so they have a sense of human dignity that they cannot be deprived of.
（应受访者要求，钱珵为其化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Qianjid collected his name, and South Weekend openly solicited news leads from all those who were present in the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
回武汉第二天封城、发烧，一个青年导演的自救口述。
Back to Wuhan the second day of closure, fever, a young director of self-help oral.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "回武汉第二天封城、发烧，一个青年导演的自救口述";。
var msg _ title = & quot; returned to Wuhan the next day with a fever, a young director's self-help oral & quot;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
