病毒捕手：15秒就感染？这些悬案是怎么“侦破”的。
Virus Hunter: Infected in 15 seconds? How are these open cases "solved"?
崔慧莹 杨凯奇。
Cui Huiying Yang Cage.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月8日，医务人员在武汉客厅方舱医院查房。
February 8, the medical staff in the Wuhan living room cabin hospital room inspection.
（新华社/图）全文共4994字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text of 4,994 words will take about 10 minutes to read.
进一步摸排发现，宝山的3例病例曾经去过安徽蚌埠参加婚礼，其间曾经多次到某健身房进行健身活动——发现高度怀疑线索。
Further investigation revealed that three cases from Baoshan had been to Bengbu, Anhui Province, where they had been to a gymnasium several times during their wedding and found highly suspicious clues.
印证则来自安徽蚌埠召开的新闻发布会：蚌埠龙子湖区国祯广场元素健身房有确诊患者，而此前在此健身的人士中，6人有从武汉返家记录。
Confirmed from Bengbu, Anhui Province, a news conference: Bengbu Longzi Lake Guozhen Square Elemental Gym has confirmed patients, and the fitness of the previous six people from Wuhan records.
2月8日凌晨三点，淮安区委书记在公开信中向全区人民喊话，“如果您去过‘浅深’浴室，恳请您说出来。
"If you've been to the 'shallow' bathroom, please speak up," Huai'an District Secretary addressed the district in an open letter at 3 a.m. on Feb.
”并称这些不隐瞒的人是英雄。
He said the people who did not hide were heroes.
他还号召大家举报相关人员线索，一经查实可获得200元奖励。
He also called on everyone to report clues to the relevant personnel, once verified can be awarded 200 yuan.
淮安当地市民将王某、陶某戏称为“大小毒王”，把他们的行动轨迹、传染案例画成关系图。
Huaian local citizens will Wang Mou, Tao Mou as the "big and small poison king", their track of action, the case of infection painted a relationship map.
孙晓冬一直在劝说政府接受客观事实：流调是一个循序渐进的过程，并非一开始就能搞清所有的情况，即便流调到最后，也未必能真正把问题都搞清。
Sun Xiaodong has been trying to persuade the government to accept the objective fact that transfer is a gradual process that does not always lead to a clear understanding of everything in the first place.
本文由南方周末独家授权腾讯平台，任何第三方未经授权不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 崔慧莹 杨凯奇南方周末实习生 宋炳晨责任编辑 | 汪韬如果早知道15秒买个菜，都能被新冠肺炎病毒“命中”，56岁的宁波男子秦子毅，怕是一秒钟都不会在宁波市双东坊菜场内停留。
This article by Southern Weekend exclusive authorization Tencent platform, any third party without authorization Southern Weekend reporter Cui Huiying Yang Cage Southern Weekend Intern Song Bingchen If I had known 15 seconds to buy a dish, Wang Ping-chen could have been hit by the new pneumonia virus.
视频监控显示，2020年1月23日7:47，秦子毅和另一位61岁女性患者在同一摊位前共同驻留，时间只有15秒，但距离很近，两人均未佩戴口罩。
Video surveillance showed that on January 23, 2020, at 7: 47, Qin Ziyi and another 61-year-old female patient were at the same booth for 15 seconds, but close enough that neither was wearing a mask.
“只能说有可能是这15秒传上的。
"It could have been 15 seconds," he said.
”2月7日，宁波市江北区疾控中心流调组组长周楠告诉南方周末记者。
On February 7, Zhou Nan, head of the CDC Transfer Team in Jiangbei District, Ningbo, told Southern Weekend reporter.
就现有流行病学调查（简称流调）来看，这是秦子毅最有可能的一次与病毒的“亲密接触”。
In terms of the current epidemiological investigation, this is the most likely Qin Ziyi and the virus "intimate contact."
此次新冠肺炎疫情中，天津是最早公布详细流调过程的城市之一，其对宝坻百货大楼出现的聚集性病例，进行了抽丝剥茧的推理分析；江苏淮安浅深洗浴中心有5位顾客确诊，当地政府深夜急寻顾客与搓澡工；上海市病毒“追凶”甚至跨省追到了安徽蚌埠的健身房。
Tianjin was one of the first cities to publish detailed flow profiles in the latest outbreak. Five customers were diagnosed at Baodi Bathing Center in Jiangsu province, where local authorities rushed late at night to find customers and washers. Shanghai's viral pursuers even chased the gymnasium in Bengbu, Anhui Province.
福尔摩斯般的探案者，是一群的“病毒捕手”。
Sherlock Holmes-like investigators are a group of "virus hunters."
他们跟踪病毒，关切每一例病患因何患病；与病毒赛跑，找到密切接触人群尽早隔离观察；回溯病毒来源，在病例间探寻联系，直至找出最初感染的“零号病人”和释放病毒的潘多拉魔盒。
They keep track of the virus, concerned about the cause of each case; race against the virus and find close contact with the crowd for early isolation; trace the source of the virus and explore the links between cases until it finds the original infected "patient zero" and the Pandora's box that releases the virus.
在人类对抗传染性疾病的历史上，流行病学调查第一次大放异彩是在1854年的伦敦。
For the first time in the history of man's fight against infectious diseases, epidemiological investigations flourished in London in 1854.
英国医生约翰·斯诺详细调查霍乱暴发的地点和死亡病例后发现，几乎所有死亡病例都饮用过一口水井的水。
John Snow, a British doctor who examined the location of the cholera outbreak and the number of deaths, found that almost all deaths were caused by drinking water from a well.
关闭水井，这场酿成616人死亡的霍乱很快告终。
The well was closed, and the cholera, which killed 616 people, soon ended.
鲜为人知的是，虽有诸多高科技手段加持，如今流调队员的工作仍普遍以传统的询问方式进行。
What is less well known is that, despite the availability of high-tech tools, the transfer of personnel is now generally conducted in the traditional way of questioning.
线索繁杂琐碎，患者隐瞒或回忆不全；监控录像保存时间太短、数据信息共享不足；部分地区疫情严重人手不足，防护不足有暴露风险……他们要面对一系列难关。
The clues are tedious, the patient conceals or recalls incomplete; the surveillance video is too short, data and information sharing is insufficient; parts of the region are seriously understaffed, inadequate protection risks exposed... They have to face a series of difficulties.
“追凶”固然精彩，但在庞大而专业的疾病防控系统中，流行病学调查只是承担疾病监测功能的一个环节、一小部分。
The "pursuit" is wonderful, but in the vast and professional disease control system, epidemiological investigation is only a part of the disease monitoring function, a small part.
昆山杜克大学全球健康研究中心主任汤胜蓝告诉南方周末记者，要复盘此次疫情防控的得与失，仍需要从整个医疗、疾控体系上找到症结。
Tang Shenglan, director of the Center for Global Health Research at Duke University in Kunshan, told Southern Weekend that to renegotiate the gains and losses of the epidemic, we still need to find the crux of the whole medical, disease-control system.
1刨根问底似破案跟公安做笔录、记者做采访类似，流调的第一步工作是：问。
1 to find out the root of the case with the public security records, reporters do interviews, the first step in the flow is: ask.
14天内到过哪些地方？每一天的移动轨迹是什么？乘坐了哪些公共交通工具？接触了哪些人员？去过哪个医疗机构就诊？上海市疾控中心副主任孙晓冬告诉南方周末记者，问完一个疑似病例的情况，至少要两个小时。
Where were you visited in 14 days? What was your daily trajectory? Who you travelled on? Who you contacted? What medical institution did you visit? Sun Xiaodong, deputy director of the Shanghai CDC, told Southern Weekend reporter that it would take at least two hours to ask about a suspected case.
如果疑似转为确诊，还要补充完善信息，最多达10个小时。
If the diagnosis is suspected, complete information is added up to a maximum of 10 hours.
有时可能要重复五六次以后，才能把故事基本说圆。
It may sometimes be repeated five or six times before the story is basically complete.
在上海，黄浦区1月26日发现的2例患者是个“悬案”：没有湖北旅行史、可疑人员的接触史，也没有食用过野生动物，查不出感染来源。
In Shanghai, the two patients found on January 26 in Huangpu District are "open cases": no history of travel to Hubei, no history of contact with suspicious people, no consumption of wild animals, and no source of infection.
直到1月29日，宝山区出现3例确诊患者，才发现他们之间的病毒传播可能因为一次聚餐。
It was not until January 29 that three confirmed cases emerged in Baoshan that the virus spread between them, possibly because of a dinner party.
“一开始黄浦区的患者并没有想起有过聚餐，直到发现宝山的确诊病例，黄浦区患者才告诉流调队员这条线索。
"At first, the Huangpu people didn't think about having a dinner until they found a confirmed case of Baoshan. Only then did Huangpu patients tell the messengers this clue.
”孙晓冬说，“流调人员会用各种提问方式，不断地去提示、引导，帮助对方回忆，但人的记忆差别太大，有不少信息存在误差。
"Transferred personnel use a variety of questions to prompt, guide and help them recall," Sun said. "But people's memories differ too much and there are many errors in information.
”流病调查费时，对密接人群和部分疑似病例，需流调人员进入隔离区进行面对面交流；已进入负压病房的确诊病例，通常以电话、视频连线来进行调查。
Investigation of flow is time-consuming, requiring the transfer of personnel into the area of separation for face-to-face communication in dense groups and some suspected cases; confirmed cases that have entered negative pressure wards are usually investigated by telephone or video link.
调查费时之外，要求却又很紧。
The investigation was time-consuming and demanding.
高度疑似病例在完成问询、咽拭子采样送检等程序后，关于他/她的流调报告要在24小时内完成。
In highly suspected cases, the report on his / her transfer is completed within 24 hours after completion of procedures such as enquiry, swabbing of the pharynx, etc.
这些来自疫区最深处的“一手素材”，将为各相关部门在医治、消毒、管控、预防、处置等工作环节提供参考。
These "first-hand materials" from the deepest part of the epidemic area will provide references for related departments in treatment, disinfection, control, prevention and disposal.
不只是记不清，有的患者甚至故意隐瞒行踪。
Not only can't remember, some patients even deliberately hide their whereabouts.
山东潍坊的确诊患者张某芳就因为刻意隐瞒自己的旅行史和接触史，导致包括68名医护人员在内的117人被隔离，有15人确诊。
Zhang Mifang, a confirmed patient in Weifang, Shandong Province, was isolated and 15 people were diagnosed because he deliberately concealed his travel history and contact history, resulting in 117 people being quarantined, including 68 medical personnel.
面对这一情况，由于流调人员没有执法权，只能帮助患者舒缓压力，引导他们自己说出来。
Faced with this situation, since the transfer of personnel do not have law enforcement powers, can only help patients relieve pressure, guide them to speak out.
“我们要有足够的耐心。
"We need to be patient.
”孙晓冬说。
"said Sun.
张某芳康复出院后，随即因涉嫌以危险方法危害公共安全罪移交公安机关。
Zhang recovered from hospital and was handed over to the public security organs on suspicion of endangering public security by dangerous means.
而类似隐瞒病情的行为，据南方周末记者粗略统计，有媒体报道的已有上百起。
Similar concealment of the disease, according to Southern Weekend reporter rough statistics, there have been hundreds of media reports.
2让病例“孤岛”连成片建立起黄浦区和宝山区的患者关系后，这5个病例依然是个悬案：找不到传染源，5位患者都没有湖北旅行史、湖北人接触史。
After the patient relationship between Huangpu District and Baoshan area was established by connecting isolated islands, the five cases remain open: no source of infection could be found, and none of the five patients had a history of travel to Hubei or contact with Hubei people.
进一步摸排发现，宝山的3例病例曾经去过安徽蚌埠参加婚礼，其间曾经多次到某健身房进行健身活动——发现高度怀疑线索。
Further investigation revealed that three cases from Baoshan had been to Bengbu, Anhui Province, where they had been to a gymnasium several times during their wedding and found highly suspicious clues.
印证则来自安徽蚌埠召开的新闻发布会：蚌埠龙子湖区国祯广场元素健身房有确诊患者，而此前在此健身的人士中，6人有从武汉返家记录。
Confirmed from Bengbu, Anhui Province, a news conference: Bengbu Longzi Lake Guozhen Square Elemental Gym has confirmed patients, and the fitness of the previous six people from Wuhan records.
孙晓冬介绍，长三角地区有一套联防联控机制，用于密切接触者的互相协查追踪。
Sun Xiaodong introduced, the Yangtze River Delta area has a set of joint defense control mechanism, used for close contacts with each other tracking.
但这一案例并没有用到，“安徽方面尚未追踪到健身房病例的密切接触者来了上海，还没给我们发协查函。
But the case was not used. "Close contacts in Anhui province who haven't traced cases to the gym have arrived in Shanghai and haven't sent us a letter of assist.
”如果不是蚌埠市的公开信息具体到了一家健身房，上海疾控人员恐仍将对该案的病毒源头一筹莫展，在大量冗杂信息中迷茫一段时间。
If Bengbu's public information had not reached a gymnasium, disease officials in Shanghai would have been at a loss as to the source of the virus and lost time amid a deluge of jumbled information.
宁波15秒接触即感染的案例，此前也是悬案。
The case of Ningbo infection by 15 seconds of exposure was also pending.
在发病前的14天内，患者秦子毅没有疫区旅行史，没接触过野生动物，病发前主要在江北地区活动，与辖区内已确诊患者不相识……“撒网式”询问，并未获得有效线索。
In the 14 days before the onset of the disease, patients Qin Ziyi did not have a history of travel epidemic areas, no contact with wild animals, the disease occurred mainly in the northern region of Jiangbei, and the area has been confirmed that the patients do not know... "cast-net" inquiries, no effective clues.
直到公安机关通过比对公共视频后发现，该男性患者在买菜时与一路人（目前已知为确诊患者）在同一摊位有过短暂（约15秒）的近距离共同驻留。
It was not until the public security organs examined the public video that the male patient had a brief (approximately 15 seconds) close co-location with a group of people (currently known as confirmed patients) at the same booth when they purchased the food.
“15秒的接触不是流调组最先发现的，是公安机关通过视频和病例的行踪轨迹追踪才发现的。
"The 15-second contact was not first detected by the flow pattern team, but by the public security organs through video and case tracking.
”周楠告诉南方周末记者。
Zhou Nan told Southern Weekend reporter.
15秒的关键线索，让秦子毅从一座“孤岛”，变成了整张病毒传播树状图里的一根枝蔓。
The key clue of 15 seconds, let Qin Ziyi from a "lonely island," into the virus spread throughout a tree branches.
他在菜摊前偶然遇到的路人，是一名61岁女性确诊患者陈澜，1月19日上午10：00，她搭上了一辆旅行大巴车，参加香客们自行组织赴宁波天童寺的祈福活动。
Chenlan, a 61-year-old woman diagnosed with Chen Lan, met by him in front of a vegetable stall. At 10: 00 a.m. on January 19, she hitchhiked a bus to join the pilgrims' self-organized prayer service to Tian Tong Temple in Ningbo.
她并不知道同车的乘客胡某，在这一天已经开始感到畏寒、发热，尚未及时就诊。
She did not know that the same passenger Hu Mou, in this day has begun to feel chilly, feverish, not timely medical treatment.
截至2月2日24时，与此次祈福活动相关的感染者已有25人，其中14人是同一辆大巴车上的乘客。
As of 2400 hours on February 2, 25 people had been infected, 14 of them passengers in the same bus.
流调结果显示，所有劳师动众的追溯极可能要归结于：1月17日晚胡某参加了宁波海曙区一美容养生会所老板组织的聚餐，聚餐中有去过武汉的人。
The results show that all the labor movement back to the most likely attributable to: January 17 evening Hu attended the Ningbo Haishou District Aesthetic Health Association owners organized a dinner, the dinner has been Wuhan people.
3“喊话”密切接触者接受隔离就当前情况来看，各地的流行病学调查紧锣密鼓，但仍有不少“悬案”。
Contacts with Close Contacts Isolated As things stand, epidemiological investigations are intense everywhere, but there are still many "open cases."
“这个健身房里面发现了5个病例，宝山的病例是哪一天，跟这些病例有什么样的接触？”孙晓冬坦率地说，“说不清楚，全国各地都一样，就像天津宝坻百货大楼，也还有很多未知。
"Five cases have been found in the gym, what's the date of Baoshan's case and what kind of contact with these cases?" Sun said bluntly.
”上海交通大学-耶鲁大学卫生政策联合研究中心执行主任赵大海告诉南方周末记者，当前疫情紧急，流行病学调查工作的重点已经不仅仅是溯源，还要找到疑似病例隔离。
Zhao Dahai, executive director of the Shanghai Jiaotong University-Yale University Center for Joint Research in Health Policy, told Southern Weekend that the focus of epidemiological investigations is no longer just traceable to the source, but on finding suspected cases of isolation.
天津宝坻百货大楼已发现39例确诊，14000人被隔离排查。
Tianjin Baodi Department Store has found 39 cases diagnosed and 14,000 people isolated.
宁波辖下宁海、镇海两地政府发布公告，寻找那起祈福活动的参与者，376人被隔离观察。
Ningbo's Ninghai and Zhenhai governments issued notices seeking participants in the blessing ceremony, and 376 people were quarantined.
在江苏淮安，因浅深浴室引发的追踪和隔离已经是全民参与。
In Huaian, Jiangsu, tracing and isolation caused by shallow bathrooms is already a popular activity.
49岁的江苏淮安市民王某，这位常年在武汉工作的男士回到淮安后，病发前多次到淮安区浅深浴室洗浴、过夜，与他一起洗浴的陶某，以及39岁的一名搓澡工均被传染。
After returning to Huaian, a 49-year-old resident of Huaian, Jiangsu, the 39-year-old baker was infected after he went to the shallow bathhouse in Huaian district to bathe and spend the night in a shallow bath with him.
截至2月11日，与浅深浴室相关联的确诊病例已有15人，占淮安确诊总数的三分之一。
As at 11 February, there were 15 confirmed cases associated with shallow bathrooms, representing one third of the total number of Huaian diagnoses.
确诊前，陶某在市内的踪迹遍布希尔顿浴场、布丁酒店、天竺宾馆和五个居民小区。
Before the diagnosis, Tao in the city's traces throughout the Hilton Baths, pudding hotels, hotels and five residential areas.
还有当地市民将王某、陶某戏称为“大小毒王”，把他们的行动轨迹、传染案例画成关系图。
There are also local citizens will Wang Mou, Tao Mou as "the size of the King", their track of action, the case of infection painted a diagram.
2月8日凌晨三点，淮安区委书记在公开信中向全区人民喊话，“如果您去过‘浅深’，恳请您说出来。
On February 8 at 3 a.m., Huaian District Secretary in an open letter to the people of the region, "If you have been to the 'shallow depth', please speak out.
”并称这些不隐瞒的人是英雄。
He said the people who did not hide were heroes.
他还号召大家举报相关人员线索，一经查实可获得200元奖励。
He also called on everyone to report clues to the relevant personnel, once verified can be awarded 200 yuan.
在淮安以外，其他城市也发现多名确诊病例曾去过淮安。
Besides Huaian, many confirmed cases have been found in other cities.
淮安周边的几个城市，还将淮安“苏H”号牌车辆作为进城重点核查的对象。
Huaian around several cities, Huaian "Su H" vehicles as the focus of verification in the city.
有网友调侃“不知深浅入浅深，一入浅深误终身”。
Some netizens ridicule "do not know deep into shallow deep, a deep mistake in life."
从几百列高铁动车组、飞机航班等交通工具到浴池、健身房，各地政府陆续“喊话”密切接触者接受隔离。
From hundreds of lines of high-speed trains, airplane flights and other means of transport to bathtubs, gymnasiums, governments across the country have been "shouting" close contacts to be isolated.
4“流调不是万能的”在流行病学调查中，“零号病人”又被称为“初始病例”或“标识病例”，指的是第一个感染某种传染病，并开始散播病毒的病人。
"Flux is not a panacea" In epidemiological investigations, "patient number zero," also known as an "initial case" or "marker case," refers to a patient who first contracted an infectious disease and started spreading the virus.
理论上来讲，完美的流行病学调查可以追溯到零号病人，将病患串联成一个源头或多个源头的传播网络。
Theoretically, the perfect epidemiological investigation can be traced back to patient number zero, cascading the patient into a network of sources or multiple sources.
当流行病学调查结果最终如案件卷宗呈现出来时，公众会表示惊讶和敬意。
The public will be surprised and respected when the results of the epidemiological survey are finally presented as case files.
但在面对一种突发且人们知之甚少的新发传染病时，早期流行病学调查结论需要不断被验证或纠偏。
But in the face of a sudden and poorly understood emerging infectious disease, early epidemiological findings need to be constantly validated or corrected.
“个案需要验证，15秒到底能不能感染上，需要进行动物试验，或更细致地分析视频里两个病例到底是如何接触，通过什么样的途径。
"The case needs to be tested to see whether 15 seconds of infection will require an animal test or a more detailed analysis of how and how the two cases in the video actually come into contact.
”孙晓冬提出一串疑问。
"Sun asked a string of questions.
与公众一样，孙晓冬发现一些政府官员有时会过度依赖流行病学调查结果，觉得“把（确诊病例的活动）轨迹一公布，把信息一查，把这个人一锁定，什么东西就都能够搞明白了”，他一直在劝说政府官员接受客观事实：流调是一个循序渐进的过程，并非一开始就能搞清所有的情况，即便流调到最后，也未必能真正把问题都搞清。
Like the general public, Sun has found that some government officials sometimes rely too much on epidemiological surveys, feeling that "once the trajectory [of confirmed cases] is made public, everything can be understood once the information is checked and the person locked in." He has been trying to persuade government officials that the flow is a gradual process that does not always clarify everything in the first place.
每次信息公开看似破了案，其实流调人员依然战战兢兢，一些“反转”新闻好像“打了脸”，实际是流行病学调查不断深入后出现的新发现。
Every time the disclosure of information seems to break the case, in fact the transfer personnel are still trembling, some "reverse" news seems to "hit the face," is actually the epidemiological investigation after the emergence of new findings.
2月9日，晋中市卫健委官网发布了一起确诊病例的生活轨迹：65岁的新冠肺炎患者王某花从2019年12月25日离开武汉，到2月5日确诊，前后一共42天。
On February 9, Jinzhong's network of health officials released a life story of a confirmed case: Wang, a 65-year-old patient with pneumonia, left Wuhan on December 25, 2019 and was diagnosed on February 5, a total of 42 days.
媒体敏锐捕捉到了这一信息，并很快成为公众关注的焦点——新冠肺炎的潜伏期可能长达42天之久吗？关键词“42天潜伏期”敲在人们心上，加重了公众对开工日期延长、防控措施升级的焦虑。
The media captured this message keenly and quickly became the focus of public attention - could the incubation period for pneumonia last as long as 42 days? The keyword "42-day incubation period" struck at people's minds, adding to public anxiety about an extended start date and escalating control measures.
没想到，两天后更新的信息让公众悬着的心落了地。
Unexpectedly, two days later the update of the information so that the public overhanging the heart of the ground.
原来，该患者的儿媳妇已于1月25日确诊，经平遥县疾控中心流行病学调查，王某花为她的密切接触者，一起吃过饭，系二代病例。
Originally, the patient's daughter-in-law has been diagnosed on January 25, after Pingyuan County CDC epidemiological investigation, Wang Mu-hua for her close contacts, eating together, is the second generation of cases.
数据公布不精准，订正、修改的情况时有发生。
Data dissemination is inaccurate, and revisions and revisions occur from time to time.
前述的宁波案例中，官方新闻发布会上通报，15秒的传播者胡某，她的丈夫和女儿在1月26日被确诊为新冠肺炎，但南方周末记者查询“宁波发布”公众号的消息显示，宁波市1月26日并无新增确诊病例。
In the Ningbo case, the official news conference reported that 15-second broadcaster Hu Mou, her husband and daughter were diagnosed with pneumonia on January 26, but Southern Weekend reporters queried the "Ningbo release" of the public, reported no new confirmed cases in Ningbo on January 26.
对于胡某本人的确诊时间，发布会和宁波海曙区区政府微信公号“海曙发布”通报的时间也不一样。
As for the time of his diagnosis, the press conference and the notice of "Akebone release" issued by the government of Haishou District of Ningbo were different.
决定流调报告质量的外部因素还有很多。
There are many external factors that determine the quality of the flow report.
流调工作需与医院、公安机关、社区甚至监管部门配合，造成了一些难靠自身突破的瓶颈。
Transfer work needs to work with hospitals, public security organs, communities and even regulatory authorities, resulting in some of the bottlenecks difficult to break through themselves.
例如有些地方的监控储存时间短，找到线索再去追溯已经太迟；人脸识别技术虽然先进，但一戴上口罩也失灵了；有的现场被第一时间消毒了，采集的环境样本拿回去检测不出来什么东西，“就相当于去看一看消毒措施是不是到位了。
For example, in places where surveillance is stored for short periods of time, it is too late to find clues to trace; face recognition technology, although advanced, fails once a mask is worn; some sites are disinfected for the first time, and environmental samples collected cannot be detected.
”孙晓冬说。
"said Sun.
“（当然）你也不能让这个巨大的传染源就一直呆在那儿。
"(Of course) You can't keep this huge source of infection there.
所以流调是很重要，但不是万能的。
So the tunes are important, but not universal.
需要逐步运用各种手段，要全社会一起配合，才能说把它基本搞清楚。
Need to use all kinds of means step by step, want the whole society to cooperate together, can say to understand it basically.
”孙晓冬说。
"said Sun.
5人才是最关键的流行病学是一门归纳性的科学，也被称为“遗憾的学科”——只有人死了、得病了，数据才拿过来做统计。
5 Talent is the most critical epidemiology is an inductive science, also known as the "regretful discipline" - statistics are collected only when people are dead and ill.
此次新冠肺炎疫情下忙碌的流调人员从事的工作可称为“现场流行病学调查”。
The work being done by the busy transferees following the outbreak of new crown pneumonia can be called "field epidemiological investigation."
除了这种突发的流调之外，各地疾控中心也有日常的流调工作，例如糖尿病、癌症等慢性病的观察，比如吸烟和肺癌的关系，以提出防控措施。
In addition to this sudden shift, the CDC also has routine shift work, such as diabetes, cancer and other chronic diseases such as observation of the relationship between smoking and lung cancer, to propose control measures.
传染病防治属于公共卫生学的一个分支。
The control of infectious diseases is a branch of public health science.
多位专家强调，中国自SARS以来对公共卫生系统投入巨大人力物力，培养出了一批庞大的公卫队伍。
Many experts stressed that China has invested enormous human and material resources in the public health system since SARS, training a large number of public health teams.
上海市首个确诊病例在1月20日正式公布，针对该病患的流调在18、19日出现疑似症状时就启动了。
Shanghai's first confirmed case was officially reported on January 20, when the first symptoms of the patient appeared on the 18th or 19th.
截至2月5日24时，市区两级疾控中心550名公共卫生专业技术人员，分为三组出动三千多人次，完成了对1071名疑似病例的流调。
As of 2400 hours on February 5, 550 public health professionals at the two-level CDC in urban areas had completed the transfer of 1,071 suspected cases through three sorties.
孙晓冬介绍，“全市上下疾控有两千多人作为流调人员储备，这还不算在实验室做检测的人手。
"There are more than 2,000 people in charge of disease control in the city," Sun said. "This is not counting people doing tests in the laboratory.
”不过，国内广大基层、乡村地区，各级疾控中心的人力储备远不及上海，南方周末记者在采访中发现，有的流调人员从疫情暴发开始从未轮休，忙于奔赴现场调查只能在车上小憩。
However, the country's vast grassroots and rural areas, the CDC at all levels of manpower reserves far less than Shanghai, Southern Weekend reporter found in an interview that some of the transfer personnel from the outbreak of the outbreak never rotating, busy on-site investigation can only rest in the car.
在疫情严重的湖北省内，流调人员更是紧缺。
In Hubei province, where the epidemic is severe, there is a shortage of migrant workers.
昆山杜克大学全球健康研究中心主任汤胜蓝认为，虽然医疗系统“强基层”的口号喊了多年，但基层医疗、疾控力量仍然薄弱。
Tang Sheng-blue, director of the Center for Global Health Research at Duke University in Kunshan, says that while the health-care system has been crying out for years, primary care and disease control remain weak.
据他观察，很少有高等院校毕业的人才愿意去基层、去边远地区。
Few graduates of higher education, he observes, are willing to go to the grassroots and remote areas.
一位北大公共卫生学院的毕业生告诉南方周末记者，她的同学毕业后的首选都是留在北京，其次是杭州这样的大城市，以及家乡的省会城市。
A graduate of the Beijing University School of Public Health told Southern Weekend that her classmates' top choice after graduation was to stay in Beijing, followed by big cities like Hangzhou and the provincial capital of her hometown.
公卫专业稍弱的院校的毕业生，也更多选择在地级市找工作，“地级市的疾控人员还能保证有很多是公卫专业的，再到县一级就很难说了。
Graduates of public health colleges and universities are also more likely to look for jobs in prefectural cities. "CDC staff at the local level can still guarantee that many are public health professionals, and it's hard to say at the county level.
”“殊不知，人、财、物里，人才是最关键的。
"" People, money, things, people are the most important.
”汤胜蓝强调。
Tangsheng Blue stressed.
除了疾控部门之外，医疗机构、科研机构乃至制药企业也可能进行流调，从而了解一个疾病发生、发展的情况。
In addition to the disease control departments, medical institutions, scientific research institutions and even pharmaceutical enterprises may also conduct transfer, so as to understand the occurrence and development of a disease.
所有新发传染病防控的第一环是医院，但汤胜蓝在国内调研时发现，一些医生并没有上报病例的动力“，现在医院重视赚钱的科室比如肿瘤科，传染科、感染科这些公共卫生科室相对比较边缘。
The first ring in the chain of control of all new infectious diseases is the hospital, but Tangsheng Blue found in domestic research that some doctors do not have the motivation to report cases. "Now hospitals focus on profitable departments such as oncology, infectious disease and infection, which are relatively marginal.
”此外，科研机构具有较强的分析能力，但曾做过结核病流行病学调查的赵大海介绍，各方收集到的流调数据共享还不够。
In addition, scientific research institutions have strong analytical capabilities, but Zhao Dahai, who has conducted an epidemiological survey of tuberculosis, said data-sharing on TB was insufficient.
（文中秦子毅、周楠、陈澜为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Qin Ziyi, Zhou Nan, Chen Lanwei's pseudonym) collect "Southern Weekend" to all readers who are on the front line of the new crown pneumonia open for news clues.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
病毒捕手：15秒就感染？这些悬案是怎么“侦破”的。
Virus Hunter: Infected in 15 seconds? How are these open cases "solved"?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "病毒捕手：15秒就感染？这些悬案是怎么“侦破”的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Virus catcher: Infected in 15 seconds? How did & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
