为何湖北一天新增1.4万新冠肺炎确诊病例？。
Why did Hubei add 14,000 newly diagnosed cases of pneumonia a day?
崔慧莹 马肃平。
Cui Huiying Ma Su Ping.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月2日，武汉大学中南医院影像科主任徐海波教授（白衣者）和同事查看患者的CT检查影像。
On February 2, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Imaging Director Professor Xu Haibo (white clothes) and colleagues to see the patient's CT imaging.
（新华社/图）全文共1150字，阅读大约需要3分钟。
The full text is 1,150 words and takes about three minutes to read.
武汉确诊患者单日新增1.3万，数据统计口径变化是主因。
Wuhan confirmed the patient a day to add 13, 000, the data is the main cause of statistical change.
为与全国其他省份对外发布的病例诊断分类一致，从2月12日起，湖北省将临床诊断病例数纳入确诊病例数进行公布。
Since February 12, Hubei Province has included the number of clinical diagnosis cases in the number of confirmed cases, in keeping with the classification of cases published by other provinces.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 崔慧莹 马肃平责任编辑 | 曹海东一天内，湖北新增14840例新冠肺炎病例。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2020年2月13日清晨，迅猛增长的确诊患者数据让很多人怀疑“眼花了”。
In the early morning hours of February 13, 2020, the rapidly growing number of confirmed patients made many people suspicious.
据湖北省卫生健康委员会通报，从当日起将临床诊断病例数纳入确诊病例数进行公布。
From the same day, the number of cases of clinical diagnosis was included in the number of confirmed cases for publication, the Hubei Health Commission said.
也就是说，数据统计口径的变化，临床诊断病例13332例被纳入，是确诊患者数量剧增的主因。
That is to say, the change in the statistical caliber of the data and the inclusion of 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis are the main reasons for the sharp increase in the number of confirmed patients.
1医生呼吁，CT影像终纳入诊断标准十天前，一线医生强烈呼吁将CT影像作为新冠肺炎诊断依据的消息在全网刷屏。
Ten days ago, doctors called for CT images to be included in the diagnostic criteria. First-line doctors urged that CT images be used as the basis for diagnosing new crown pneumonia.
2月4日上午，发出这条“爆款”朋友圈的武汉大学中南医院医学影像科副主任张笑春告诉南方周末记者，仅以核酸试剂检测结果作为标准，将出现很多漏诊。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of medical imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, who issued the bomb, told Southern Weekend that testing results using only nucleic acid reagents as a criterion would lead to many missed diagnoses.
“可能要咳出很深的痰才能检测出阳性，但留痰质量不高，检测试剂盒本身的质量也可能影响检测结果，有假阴性可能。
"It may be necessary to cough up very deep sputum in order to detect positive sputum, but the sputum quality is not high and the quality of the test kit itself may influence the test results, with false negative results.
”张笑春建议在湖北省疫情严重地区，尽快将CT影像作为诊断依据。
Zhang suggested that CT images be used as a diagnostic basis as soon as possible in areas with severe epidemics in Hubei province.
已经看到“白肺”影像，但尚未进行核酸试剂检测的患者，需尽早隔离。
Patients who have seen "white lung" images but have not been tested for nucleic acid reagents need to be isolated as early as possible.
“因为没有特效药，临床上对于普通的急性肺炎跟新冠肺炎，在我们重点疫区的治疗方法都是一样的，不存在报告详细的鉴别诊断。
"Because there are no specific drugs, the clinical treatment for common acute pneumonia and new crown pneumonia is the same in our priority areas. There is no reported detailed differential diagnosis.
”张笑春说。
"said Zhang.
按照当时的诊疗指南，利用荧光 RT-PCR 检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性是确诊的金标准。
According to the diagnosis and treatment guidelines at that time, fluorescent RT-PCR detection of new coronavirus nucleic acid positive is the gold standard of diagnosis.
现实是，从新冠肺炎疫情暴发开始，在疫情严峻的湖北，试剂盒短缺的问题、获得诊断结果需要一定时间的困境，始终未能妥善解决。
The reality is that from the outbreak of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, in Hubei province, the shortage of test kits and the difficulties in obtaining the diagnosis results have not been properly solved.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇也告诉南方周末记者，一线医生在2020年1月份就提出过要将CT影像纳入诊断标准，但未获“正名”。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, also told Southern Weekend that front-line doctors had raised the idea of adding CT images to the diagnostic criteria in January 2020, but were not given a "proper name."
变化出现在2月5日，在国家卫健委最新公布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》中，将 CT 影像学结果纳入新型肺炎疑似病例的临床诊断标准，暂限湖北地区。
The changes occurred on February 5, in the newly released "New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial 5th Edition)," CT imaging results were incorporated into the clinical criteria for the diagnosis of suspected new cases of pneumonia.
也就是说，湖北省内的疑似病例患者，如果同时具有肺炎影像学特征，即可计入确诊病例数。
That is, suspected cases in Hubei province can be counted as confirmed cases if they share the image of pneumonia.
2湖北与全国看齐，临床诊断病例纳入确诊病例2月8日，时任湖北省委书记蒋超良在武汉市督导疫情防控工作，指出要在两天之内将全市累积的所有疑似患者检测完毕。
2 Hubei and the country as a whole, clinical diagnosis of the case into the diagnosis February 8, then-Hubei Provincial Party Secretary Jiang Xiuliang in Wuhan City, the supervision of the epidemic prevention and control, said the city will be the city's accumulated all suspected patients within two days to complete the test.
数据亦可看出变化，自2月8日湖北开始公布疑似病例存量后，湖北省每日现有疑似病例出现大幅下降。
The figures also show a sharp drop in the number of suspected cases per day in Hubei province since February 8, when the company began to release a stock of suspected cases.
2月8日-12日五日现有疑似病例数量分别为23638、18438、16687、11295、9028。
The current number of suspected cases on February 8-12 is 23638, 18438, 16687, 11295, 9028.
但在2月8日-12日，湖北省的确诊患者数增量并不大，2月11日，湖北省报告新增新冠肺炎病例仅有1638例。
But February 8-12 saw little increase in the number of confirmed cases, with only 1,638 new cases reported in Hubei province on Feb. 11.
武汉市数据同样如此，2月12日武汉报告新冠肺炎13436例，前一日仅有1104例。
The same is true of Wuhan, which reported 13,436 new cases of pneumonia on February 12, compared with 1,104 the day before.
2月13日，据湖北卫健委官网，近期湖北省对既往的疑似病例开展了排查并对诊断结果进行了订正，对新就诊患者按照新的诊断分类进行诊断。
On February 13, Hubei Wei Health Officers Network, Hubei Province recently conducted a screening of suspected cases and revised the diagnosis results, new patients according to the new diagnostic classification.
为与全国其他省份对外发布的病例诊断分类一致，从2月12日起，湖北省将临床诊断病例数纳入确诊病例数进行公布。
Since February 12, Hubei Province has included the number of clinical diagnosis cases in the number of confirmed cases, in keeping with the classification of cases published by other provinces.
值得注意的是，新纳入的确诊病例主要集中在武汉。
It is worth noting that the newly confirmed cases were mainly concentrated in Wuhan.
武汉市新增的13436例确诊患者，包含临床诊断病例12364例。
In Wuhan, 13,436 new patients were diagnosed, including 12,364 clinical cases.
对疫情严峻的武汉来说，为患者能及早按照确诊病例接受规范治疗，进一步提高救治成功率，明确标准、摸清底数是第一步。
For Wuhan with severe epidemic situation, it is the first step for patients to receive standardized treatment according to the confirmed cases, further improve the success rate of treatment, clear criteria and figure out the number of cases.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
为何湖北一天新增1.4万新冠肺炎确诊病例？。
Why did Hubei add 14,000 newly diagnosed cases of pneumonia a day?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "为何湖北一天新增1.4万新冠肺炎确诊病例？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why did Hubei add 14,000 newly diagnosed cases of pneumonia a day?;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
