岂曰无衣，与子同裳，“日本诗词大会”背后的中国人。
Is there no clothes, and children with the clothes, "Japanese Poetry Conference" behind the Chinese.
黄思卓。
Huang Sijo.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲贴着“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”的物资送达武汉当地医院。
Sticked "do not say clothes, and children with the same clothes" supplies to the local hospital in Wuhan.
（日本湖北商会供图/图）全文共3277字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(Supply diagram / diagram of Hubei Chamber of Commerce, Japan) The full text is 3277 words and takes about 8 minutes to read.
外交部发言人华春莹在例行记者会上说，病毒无情人有情，中方注意到了日本人民温暖人心的举动，对包括日本在内的其他国家人民给予中国的同情、理解和支持表示衷心感谢，铭记在心。
The Chinese side has taken note of the warm-hearted actions of the Japanese people and sincerely appreciates the sympathy, understanding and support extended to China by the people of other countries, including Japan, "Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said at a regular press conference.
鲜为人知的是，这些来自日本的物资和诗句背后，也有在日华人华侨和武汉本地志愿者的奉献。
What is less well known is that behind the material and verses from Japan, there is also the dedication of the overseas Chinese in Japan and the local volunteers in Wuhan.
很多想支援湖北的在日华人华侨团体没有渠道采购和运输医疗物资，“湖北商会有渠道，办事很受在日华人华侨的信赖，他们愿意把货把钱委托我们来办。
Many organizations of overseas Chinese living in Japan who want to support Hubei have no channels to procure and transport medical supplies. "Hubei Chamber of Commerce has channels and is very trusted by overseas Chinese in Japan.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 黄思卓责任编辑 | 汪韬数百年来，一位英国诗人的诗被反复吟唱，没有人是一座孤岛，在大海里独踞。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2020年1月底，欧亚大陆的东边，贴着“山川异域，风月同天”的捐赠物资从日本发往中国。
At the end of January 2020, east of Eurasia, donations of material from Japan were sent to China, "exotic mountains and rivers, same-day winds."
之后，一箱箱来自日本的捐赠物资仿佛掀起了“诗词大会”：“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”、“同气连枝，共盼春来”……不少网友看到这些诗句后感叹自愧不如，还有网友温馨提示，今年高考很可能考这几句诗词。
Later, a box of donated materials from Japan seems to set off the "Poetry Conference": "do not say clothes, and children with clothes," "share the same breath, look forward to spring"... many netizens see these lines lament, there are warm tips, this year's college entrance exam is likely to take these words.
2月4日，外交部发言人华春莹在例行记者会上说，病毒无情人有情，中方注意到了日本人民温暖人心的举动，对包括日本在内的其他国家人民给予中国的同情、理解和支持表示衷心感谢，铭记在心。
On February 4, Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Hua Chunying said at a regular press conference that the virus is heartless. China has taken note of the warm-hearted actions of the Japanese people and sincerely appreciates the sympathy, understanding and support extended to China by people from other countries, including Japan.
鲜为人知的是，这些来自日本的物资和诗句背后，也有在日华人华侨和武汉本地志愿者的奉献。
What is less well known is that behind the material and verses from Japan, there is also the dedication of the overseas Chinese in Japan and the local volunteers in Wuhan.
2月2日，在日本草加市的物流仓库里，志愿者们忙着清点捐赠物资，贴下“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”的诗句，期待五六吨的防护用品可以为医护人员披上“战袍”。
At a logistics depot in the Japanese city of Naga on February 2, volunteers were busy counting donated goods, plastering the phrase "Wearing clothes and clothes with children" in the hope that 56 tons of protective equipment would give medical personnel a "war robe."
当时，志愿者们满脑子还为医护人员缺少防护设备而忧心忡忡，并没有想到这些小小的A4打印纸，会成为网友热议的话题。
The volunteers were so worried about the lack of protective gear that they didn't expect the tiny A4 printouts to become a hot topic for netizens.
许多医院医护人员告诉志愿者，这些漂洋过海的物资，不仅是物质上的支持，更是精神上的鼓励。
Many hospital staff told the volunteers that these materials are not only material support, but also spiritual encouragement.
1偶然诞生的金句“山川异域，风月同天”应该是此轮“诗词大会”的起点。
The golden phrase "mountain, river, wind and moon" should be the starting point of this round of "Poetry Conference."
日本汉语水平考试事务局在捐赠给湖北高校的物资外包装上写下了这句话，意思是虽然我们身在不同的地方，但我们头顶同一片天空，心意相通。
The Chinese Language Proficiency Examinations Authority of Japan (HSEA) wrote on the material package donated to universities in Hubei province, which meant that although we were in different places, we had the same sky and the same mind.
据《唐大和上东征传》记载，大约在一千三百多年前，天皇之子日本长屋王命人造了千件袈裟，赠予唐朝众僧。
About 1,300 years ago, the emperor's son, the King of the Long Room of Japan, ordered thousands of cassocks to be put on to the monks of the Tang Dynasty.
袈裟上绣着四句偈语：“山川异域，风月同天，寄诸佛子，共结来缘。
Saffron embroidered in gaatha four sentences: "Hills and rivers alien to the same day, send all Buddhas together to form a bond.
”此举让鉴真和尚很受触动，决心东渡日本，传授佛法。
"Motivated by this, the Buddhist monk decided to go east to Japan and teach Buddhism.
元宵节前夕，贴着“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”的医疗物资搭乘货运专机，从大阪机场直抵武汉天河机场。
Lantern Festival eve, affixed with "no clothes, and children with clothes" medical supplies aboard the cargo plane, from Osaka Airport to Wuhan Tianhe Airport.
与此同时，这批货物的图片也从捐赠团体之一的日本华人华侨医药界非营利组织“仁心会”理事长刘超的朋友圈，火到了各大社交媒体平台。
At the same time, images of the shipment were taken from the circle of friends of Liu Chao, director of the Benevolent Society of Overseas Chinese Medicine, a non-profit group of donors, to major social media platforms.
“岂曰无衣”典出《左传》，公元前506年，吴国军队攻陷楚国国都郢都（今湖北荆州），楚臣到秦国求援，哭声日夜不绝。
In 506 BC, the army of the State of Wu captured the capital of Chu Ying-du (now Jingzhou, Hubei Province). The courtiers went to the State of Qin to ask for help, crying day and night.
秦哀公为之赋《无衣》，鼓励战士们哪怕物资不全也要共穿一件战袍，一起抗战。
Qin MeiGong for the "no clothes", encouraged the soldiers even if the material is not complete to wear a war robe, together with the war.
大阪至武汉的这架专机上，共有日本湖北商会和其他支援湖北的华人华侨团体的两百余箱物资，共计四万只N95口罩和四千套防护服等医疗物资。
The Osaka-Wuhan special plane contains more than 200 boxes of medical supplies, including 40,000 N95 masks and 4,000 sets of protective clothing, from the Hubei Chamber of Commerce and other Chinese support groups in Hubei Province.
很多想支援湖北的在日华人华侨团体没有渠道采购和运输医疗物资“，湖北商会有渠道，办事很受在日华人华侨的信赖，他们愿意把货把钱委托给我们来办。
Many organizations of overseas Chinese living in Japan who want to support Hubei have no channels to procure and transport medical materials.Hubei Chamber of Commerce has channels and works well under the trust of overseas Chinese in Japan who are willing to entrust their goods to us.
”日本湖北商会成员、日本华人华侨龙舟协会创始人之一许溪澜说。
Xu Xilan, a member of the Hubei Chamber of Commerce and co-founder of the Chinese Dragon Boat Association, said.
回到这句金句诞生的起点，其实也有些偶然。
Back to the beginning of the golden sentence, in fact, there are some accidental.
2月2日，在距离东京约1小时车程的草加仓库，不仅储存着日本湖北商会采购的物资，还堆放着在日华人华侨团体比如华中科大日本校友会等募集或认捐的货物，“堆起来像山一样”。
On February 2, goods collected or pledged by groups of overseas Chinese in Japan, such as the Japan Alumni Association of the Chinese University of Central China, "piled up like mountains" at the Cao Gang warehouse, about an hour's drive from Tokyo.
当天，许溪澜打电话请参与募捐的团体过来检验，在场的一位中国学生提议，参考“山川异域，风月同天”，他们也要写一句诗来为武汉人民加油。
On the same day, Xu Xilan called groups involved in fund-raising to check, the presence of a Chinese student proposed to refer to "mountain and rivers exotic, the same day," they would also write a poem to cheer the people of Wuhan.
最终，仁心会决定采用“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”，他们在仓库附近的便利店打印了写有这句诗词的传单。
Eventually, benevolence will decide to use "Wrong clothes and clothes with children," printing flyers with the poem in a convenience store near the warehouse.
之后，这些诗句，缠绕着透明胶带和在日华人华侨的祝福漂洋过海，到达了武汉。
Afterwards, these verses, entangled with transparent tape and blessings of overseas Chinese in Japan, reached Wuhan.
在这批物资出发之前，仁心会理事长刘超发了个朋友圈，没想到这张图就火了。
Before the departure of this batch of goods, Yan Xin board director Liu Chaofa a circle of friends, did not expect this map on fire.
后来，越来越多来自日本的物资贴上了诗句。
Later, more and more materials from Japan were pasted with verses.
日本富山县捐助辽宁的物资上写着“辽河雪融，富山花开；同气连枝，共盼春来”，舞鹤市捐助大连的物资上贴着“青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡”，出自唐代诗人王昌龄的《送柴侍御》。
Fushan County, Japan, donor Liaoning material written "Liaohe snow melting, rich mountain flowers open, together with the hope of spring," Dance City donated Dalian materials with "Qingshan together with the clouds rain, the moon has been two townships", from Tang Dynasty poet Wang Changling's "firewood.
2020年2月11日，JR涩谷站对面的松本清药妆店显示口罩售罄。
On February 11, 2020, JR Shibuya Shu Gu Station opposite Matsumoto makeup shop showed that the mask sold out.
（汪国彰/图）2先找货，再认捐大年三十，武汉交通“封城”的第二天，东京银座珞珈一号餐厅，面对眼前的藕煨汤，许溪澜没有心思喝汤。
Looking for goods, then pledging 30 years, Wuhan traffic "closed the city" the next day, Tokyo Ginza Lahaga No. 1 restaurant, in front of the lotus soup simmer, Xu Xi Lan was not in the mood to drink soup.
珞珈一号与武汉大学研发的首颗专业夜光遥感卫星同名，在这里可以尝到最正宗的武汉热干面和藕煨汤。
The first professional night-light remote sensing satellite developed by Lopa No. 1 and Wuhan University has the same name, where the most authentic Wuhan hot and dry noodles and lotus root simmer soup can be tasted here.
吴小玲、许溪澜、孟志三个武汉人在此商量当前最紧迫的事情——如何帮助武汉。
Wu Xiaoling, Xu Xilan and Mengzhi three Wuhan people here to discuss the most urgent matter - how to help Wuhan.
五天前，日本湖北商会的新春会上，大家还其乐融融；一天前，武汉朋友们还在酒吧街把酒言欢，传来了聚会的图片视频。
Five days ago, at the Spring Festival of the Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan, everyone was happy. A day earlier, Wuhan friends were having a barbecue at the bar, and a video of the party came.
震惊和焦急之下，筹集医疗物资初步方案拟定，他们将人手分为募捐组、物资组和物流组。
Alarmed and anxious, they launched a preliminary plan to collect medical supplies. They divided their staff into a fund-raising group, a material group and a logistics group.
当天晚上就在在日湖北人的“热干面群”、商会群和龙舟群等微信群里募资。
That night in Hubei people in the "hot dry noodle group," the Chamber of Commerce group and the dragon boat group and other micro-groups fund-raising.
对于在日的华人华侨团体来说，最难的不是找钱，而是找货。
For the overseas Chinese community in Japan, the hardest thing is not to change money, but to look for goods.
即便很多货源信息第一时间就被在日华人华侨推送给湖北商会，他们还是遇到了不少困难，比如说在筹集第一批货物时，他们在专业医疗物资采购网站下单，却被告知订单取消无法购买。
Even though many source information was first sent to Hubei Chamber of Commerce by overseas Chinese in Japan, they had some difficulties. For example, when they raised the first batch of goods, they placed orders on the professional medical purchase website and were told that they could not purchase them.
“我们后来决定先找货，再认捐。
"We decided to look for it first and pledge again.
”日本湖北商会执行会长吴小玲说。
Wu Xiaoling, executive director of the Hubei Chamber of Commerce.
她1980年代就来到日本，在日本营商多年，凭借湖北人的一股韧劲和真诚在日本结识了不少朋友。
She came to Japan in the 1980s, doing business in Japan for many years, relying on Hubei people's tenacity and sincerity to make a lot of friends in Japan.
日本湖北商会成立五年，成员二百多人，每年举办十余次湖北与日本之间的商务活动，人脉甚广。
Established five years ago, the Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan has over 200 members and organizes more than a dozen business activities between Hubei and Japan each year.
这次湖北疫情严重，许多在日本的团体和企业积极帮忙。
Hubei epidemic is serious, many groups and enterprises in Japan actively help.
吴小玲和商会成员们遍访日本各地的朋友，终于凑到了一线人员最缺的医疗物资。
Wu Xiaoling and members of the Chamber of Commerce visited friends all over Japan and finally collected the most needed medical supplies on the ground.
筹集的货物集中在埼玉县草加市的一个物流仓库内，每一箱上都贴好物品序号、名称、数量、单价、总价，以及赠送单位、受赠单位、单位联系人的姓名和联系方式等，此举为了方便后续的接手人、登记员清点。
The goods raised were concentrated in a logistics warehouse in Saitama City, in Saitama City, with serial numbers, names, quantities, unit prices and total prices, as well as the names and contact details of the contacts of the giver, grantee and unit, in order to facilitate subsequent recipient and registrar counts.
3送上“战袍”的最后一公里货买到手之后，难点是怎么运进“封城”的武汉。
3 sent to the "war robes" of the last kilometer of goods bought, the difficulty is how to get into the "closed" Wuhan.
日本湖北商会找到了跨境电商平台和航空公司的高管，了解物资跨境运输的出入关手续，又与湖北省慈善总会商量好对接事宜，之后计划让武汉的志愿者送到医院。
The Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan found senior executives from cross-border electric business platforms and airlines to understand the procedures for the import and export of goods across the border, and discussed docking with the Hubei Philanthropy Association before planning to send volunteers from Wuhan to the hospital.
超出在日华人华侨预料的是，在武汉运送货物实在不是一件易事。
Beyond the expectations of the overseas Chinese in Japan, shipping goods in Wuhan is no easy task.
疫情笼罩之下，普通人连家门槛都不敢迈出去，出去了也是交通“封锁”状态，没有通行证的车辆可以说寸步难行。
The epidemic is shrouded, ordinary people do not dare to cross the threshold of their homes, out is also a traffic "blockade" state, no permit vehicles can be said to be impossible.
在武汉，对接的任务落在了樊平（化名）身上，她是一名家庭主妇，她和朋友们承担起约2300万日元的医疗物资的协调、分配和运送责任。
In Wuhan, the docking task fell on Fan Ping (alias), a housewife who and her friends assumed responsibility for the coordination, distribution and delivery of medical supplies of about Yen23 million.
樊平和朋友们找到了有通行证的爱心车队帮忙，和八九个志愿车主协调好了运送时间和运送车辆。
Fan Ping and his friends found a laissez-passer team to help them coordinate delivery times and vehicles with eight or nine volunteer owners.
尽管这次运送有一两台车是空车去空车回，看上去浪费了宝贵的通行证，但实际上这种“浪费”是必要的，因为爱心车队无法预计物资的尺寸大小，为了能一趟把货拉完，他们选择尽量多出几台车。
Although one or two of the vehicles were carried empty to return empty, which appeared to be a waste of valuable permits, in practice this "waste" was necessary because the loving fleet could not predict the size of the material and, in order to be able to complete the trip, they opted for as many vehicles as possible.
2月7日到达天河机场，已是晚上8点。
February 7 arrived at Tianhe Airport, it is 8 pm.
武汉的夜晚湿冷，出门太急的志愿者们没有顾上吃晚饭，就在车里凑合吃点泡面。
Wuhan night is wet and cold, the volunteers go out too fast not to have dinner, so they make do with some noodles in the car.
几个机场仓库登记员看到这些焦急等待物资的志愿者后，专门给志愿者烧水，还拿来了牛奶。
When several airport warehouse clerks saw the volunteers waiting anxiously for supplies, they cooked water for the volunteers and brought milk.
将近9点，日本湖北商会的专机到达武汉，志愿者在机场的寒风中搬完了两百余箱物资，凌晨一点半左右终于从机场回到汉口的物资储存地，货物分散开来后，再由志愿者们一件件送到各个医院。
At nearly 9: 00 a.m., a special plane from the Hubei Chamber of Commerce arrived in Wuhan. Volunteers carried more than 200 boxes of materials in the cold wind at the airport. At about 1: 30 a.m., they finally returned to the hankou material storage area from the airport.
志愿者张从生（化名）是一名医护人员，由于缺乏物资，他所在的医院已停诊。
Volunteer Zhang Cong-sheng (alias), a paramedic, was stopped at his hospital for lack of supplies.
闲在家里的他想着也要为同行们出一份力，正好他的车是商务车，在配送物资上派上了大用场。
At home he thought he would also contribute to the colleagues, just as his car is a business car, in the distribution of supplies in great use.
从汉口物资储存地领到物资的张从生，脑海中想着要以最快速度将物资送到医院，于是开车将货物拉回了家，准备稍微睡会儿起来就送去医院，到家已是早晨五点多了。
Zhang Jingsheng, who had received the supplies from the Hankou Material Storage Area, was thinking of getting the supplies to the hospital as quickly as he could, so he drove them home, prepared to get up for a little sleep and rushed home by five o'clock in the morning.
当天九点多，张从生在小区里整理物资时，一位路人看到捐赠物资上贴着网红标语“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”和一些日语标示时，拿出手机拍照，还以一种令张从生反感的语气说了几句。
More than nine o'clock that day, Zhang Cong-sheng in the community to arrange supplies, a passer-by saw donations of materials affixed to the red slogan "clothes, and children with clothes" and some signs in Japanese, took photos of the mobile phone and said something in a tone that made Zhang resent.
张从生很担心路人会做文章。
Zhang Cong-sheng worried that passers-by would write.
果然，随后日本湖北商会即被在国内的朋友提醒，贴着“岂曰无衣，与子同裳”的物资出现在居民小区内，救灾物资被人抱回家。
Sure enough, then the Japanese Hubei Chamber of Commerce was reminded by friends in China, affixed with "Wrong clothes, and children with clothes" material appeared in the residential quarters, relief materials were taken home.
正在与医院感染区一线医生交接的张从生接到了“调查电话”。
Zhang Cong-sheng, who is in contact with a front-line doctor in the hospital infection area, received an investigation call.
网民质疑日本湖北商会，这是张从生最担心的事情：如果捐赠团体被质疑后，就无法再援助武汉。
Netizens questioned the Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan, which is Zhang's biggest concern: If the donor community is questioned, it will no longer be able to help Wuhan.
张从生拿出手机给樊平一连录了十五六个小视频，并请医院人员作证，证明防护物资一件不少送到了医院。
Zhang took out his mobile phone and recorded fifteen or six video clips for Fan Ping, and asked the hospital staff to testify that not less than one piece of protective materials arrived at the hospital.
送完货后，张从生又给樊平和日本湖北商会解释了原委，讲述中，这位医护人员忍不住开始嚎啕大哭。
After the delivery, Zhang Cong-sheng explained the story to Fan Ping and Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan, and the paramedics could not help bursting into tears.
事后，张从生说，他不是为了自己被误会而哭，是为了那些在一线出生入死的同行而哭。
Later, Zhang said he was not crying because he was misunderstood, but for those who died on the first line of life.
“我从来没有向别人要过一个口罩，所有口罩钱、油钱都是我自己出的”，张从生认为自己虽然做不了“吹哨人”，但至少能做“盯哨人”，把救命物资送到一线人员手里。
"I've never asked anyone for a mask, and all the money for masks and gas is mine," said Zhang, who believes he can't be a "whistle-blower," but at least he can be a "lookout" and deliver life-saving supplies to front-line personnel.
如今，张从生所在的医院已开始接收病人，张从生也回到医院，可谓“修我甲兵，与子偕行”。
Today, Zhang Cong-sheng's hospital has begun to accept patients, Zhang Cong-sheng also returned to the hospital, can be called "repair my soldiers, with the son journey."
（文晶晶、戴布拉、汪国彰对本文亦有帮助）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Wen Jingjing, Debra, Wang Guoxin are also helpful to this article) Call Southern Weekend now to solicit news leads from all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
岂曰无衣，与子同裳，“日本诗词大会”背后的中国人。
Is there no clothes, and children with the clothes, "Japanese Poetry Conference" behind the Chinese.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "岂曰无衣，与子同裳，“日本诗词大会”背后的中国人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
