老幼所依：武汉“封城”后，他们照顾孤独的老人和孩子。
Old and young depending on: Wuhan "closed the city", they took care of lonely old people and children.
高伊琛。
Gao Yichen.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月9日，武汉市江岸区永清街道某社区，社区工作人员给困难居民送菜上门。
February 9, 2020, Wuhan Jiangan District Yongqing Street community, community workers to deliver meals to residents in need.
（新华社/图）全文共4294字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4,294 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
安吉拉觉得自己仿佛活成了一座孤岛，独自负责着八个社区里八十多户共179人的一日三餐供给。
Angela felt as if she were an island, responsible for three meals a day for more than 80 families and 179 people in eight communities.
“我上班几个月，从没遇过一例死亡。
"I've been at work for months and I've never had a death.
那一天忽然来了，第二天有人来，第三天又有人来，我当时心里就开始有点不是滋味了。
One day came suddenly, another came the next day, and on the third I began to feel a little uneasy.
”“他们一般都不开口。
"" They don't usually open their mouths.
武汉这些老人特别善良，不想给人家增添太多麻烦。
Wuhan these old people are very kind, do not want to give others too much trouble.
”橘子知道，一旦老人开口，通常事情已经很紧急了。
The orange knew that once the old man opened his mouth, it was usually very urgent.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 |南方周末记者 高伊琛责任编辑 |吴筱羽安吉拉家里“养”了两个孩子，都是在疫情中陷入困境，被他“捡回来”的。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
第一个孩子10岁。
The first child was 10 years old.
2020年2月8日，安吉拉上他家时，他一个人在家，还戴着口罩。
On 8 February 2020, when Angela came to his house, he was alone and wearing a mask.
男孩说，妈妈出门看病，过几天回来。
The boy said his mother went out to see a doctor and would be back in a few days.
家里放着泡面和零食。
There are noodles and snacks in the house.
孩子的母亲在电话那头告诉安吉拉，自己在火神山医院，情况不乐观，拜托他帮忙照顾孩子。
The child's mother told Angela over the phone that she was at Mount Fire Hospital and asked him to take care of the baby.
第二个孩子11岁。
The second child was 11 years old.
前段时间奶奶因病离世，其他亲人都不在身边，暂时由社区里一位大爷在照顾。
Grandma died of illness some time ago, other relatives are not around, temporarily in the community in the care of a great-grandfather.
安吉拉2月9日得知情况，也将他带回了家。
Angela was informed of the situation on 9 February and brought him home.
“能想到吗，空城禁行，瘟疫就在空气里，有人还在为陌生人奔波。
Can you imagine that the empty city is forbidden, the plague is in the air, and some people are still running for strangers?
”网友熊小默在微博感叹，武汉前线有民间志愿者组织起来照顾独居老人和孤儿，自己随份子凑了点油盐钱。
Xiong Xiaomo lamented in Weibo that there were folk volunteers on the Wuhan front to take care of the elderly and orphans living alone.
1991年出生的安吉拉正是他提到的志愿者之一。
Angela, born in 1991, was one of the volunteers he mentioned.
安吉拉是网名，他说圈子里以网名相称，彼此知道是谁。
Angela is the name of the network, he said that the network in line with each other, know who.
出于尊重，南方周末记者均采用志愿者的网名。
Out of respect, Southern Weekend reporters are using the name of volunteers.
采访中断了一次，安吉拉下楼取物资，然后给两个孩子做晚饭。
The interview was interrupted when Angela went downstairs to get her supplies and then cooked dinner for the two children.
他看向窗外，挨家挨户灯都是亮的，外面却空无一人，像是在电影大片现场。
He looked out of the window, door to door lights on, but it was empty, like in the movie scene.
他觉得自己仿佛活成了一座孤岛，独自负责着八个社区里八十多户共179人的一日三餐供给。
He felt as if he were a lonely island, responsible for three meals a day for more than eighty families and 179 people in eight communities.
他不知道，武汉这座特大城市里还有另一些人同他一样，正在帮助疫情中最无力自救的人——独居老人和孩子。
He did not know that there were others in this mega-city of Wuhan who, like him, were helping the most vulnerable in the epidemic - the elderly and children living alone.
1“送货上门”安吉拉帮助的大多是“老人社区”，都是武昌区低矮的楼梯房。
"Door-to-door" Angela is most of the "elderly community" is the low stairs in Wuchang District.
行动之初，他带着朋友们挨户敲门，想统计一下有多少困难户。
At the beginning of the operation, he and his friends knocked on the door, trying to count the difficulties.
“困难”的标准被他放宽，家中有老人、没有年轻人的，都会被算在名单之中。
"Difficult" criteria were relaxed by him, the family has old people, no young people, will be counted on the list.
一天跑下来，一百多户中有八十多户都符合标准。
One day running down, more than a hundred households in more than 80 households are up to standard.
老人们不敢出门，家中余粮渐少，不知道该怎么办。
Old people are afraid to go out, the family food surplus gradually less, do not know how to do.
现在，他们都在等着安吉拉“送货上门”。
Now they are all waiting for Angela to "deliver the goods."
武汉封城后，物价波动，大白菜、猪肉价格都涨了。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, price fluctuations, cabbage, pork prices have risen.
物资也缺，汤圆、饺子、面条都空了，84消毒液、酒精和口罩更难买到。
Material shortages, dumplings, noodles are empty, 84 disinfectant, alcohol and masks are more difficult to buy.
感叹物资短缺的不仅是安吉拉，还有社区基层工作者刘安安。
It was not just Angela who lamented the shortage, but Liu An'an, a community worker at the grassroots level.
早上七点，刘安安出门买菜，将西红柿、胡萝卜、白菜、韭菜等称重，分成四十余份，一一包好。
At 7: 00 a.m., Andy Liu out to buy vegetables, tomatoes, carrots, Chinese cabbage, leeks and other weighing, divided into more than 40, a good package.
她要将这些蔬菜和牛奶，送到社区四十余位独居、空巢和鳏寡老人门口。
She would take the vegetables and milk to the door of a community of more than 40 single, empty nests and widowers.
刘安安和同事们在农历年末统计出这些老人名单，当中很多家庭条件不好，少数住在面积只有一二十平米的老平房，还是公用卫生间。
Anan Liu and his colleagues counted the elderly at the end of the Chinese calendar year. Many of them were in poor condition, with a few living in old bungalows measuring only one to 20 square metres or in communal toilets.
但那时，她还没做出任何行动，突如其来的疫情砸下来太多任务。
But by then, she hadn't done anything, and the outbreak had hit too many missions.
她所在的社区有七八千人，对应着12名工作人员，3人发烧没上班，两个在50岁以上，还有一个残疾人，每个人都在超负荷工作。
Her community consisted of seven or eight thousand people, corresponding to 12 workers, three with fever, two over the age of 50 and one disabled person, each of whom was overworked.
他们做得最多的工作是解释，“接电话接得都想死”。
The most common task they did was to explain that they wanted to die when they answered the phone.
社区每天有4个名额，可以转去方舱医院治疗。
The community has four places a day and can be transferred to the cabin hospital for treatment.
每栋楼几乎都有发热的人，打通电话，就带着哭腔要求加急。
Almost every building has a feverish people, on the phone, with a cry to ask for more urgent.
但更着急的反而不是患者及家属，而是那些担心自己被感染的健康住户，“每天不断有人打电话问，怎么他们这栋楼的人还没送走。
But the worry is not so much with the patients and their families, but with healthy people who are worried about getting infected. "Every day people call and ask why their building hasn't been taken away.
”刘安安从早忙到晚，在单元门上贴告示，给社区主干道消毒，拿着喇叭走街串巷宣传防疫知识，对实质帮助老人有心无力。
"Anan Liu put up signs on the door of the unit from morning to night, disinfected the main roads in the community, carried a trumpet and traveled the streets to publicize epidemic prevention knowledge, powerless to actually help the elderly.
直到她看见一篇微信推送，关于疫区的老年人。
Until she saw a tweet push, about older people in affected areas.
她在下面留了言，寻求帮助。
She left a message below for help.
“我跟你讲我为什么有这个想法。
"I'll tell you why I think so.
”刘安安说，有一个老人在家里死了，家属过来开死亡证明。
"An'an said an old man had died at home and his family had come to issue a death certificate.
“我上班几个月，从没遇过一例死亡。
"I've been at work for months and I've never had a death.
那一天忽然来了，第二天有人来，第三天又有人来，我当时心里就开始有点不是滋味了。
One day came suddenly, another came the next day, and on the third I began to feel a little uneasy.
”刘安安开了好几天死亡证明，这些在家死亡的老人没做CT和核酸检测，不属于新冠肺炎病人。
Anan Liu issued death certificates for days saying the elderly who died at home did not have CT and nucleic acid tests and were not among those suffering from pneumonia.
在这个七八千人的社区中，核酸检测为阳性的确诊患者、CT检测肺部呈磨玻璃状的疑似患者及其密切接触者，三类加起来约百人。
The seven or eight thousand people in the community are identified patients who tested positive for nucleic acid, suspected patients whose lungs are grinded by CT, and their close contacts, who add up to about 100 people.
社区病人大多在六七十岁以上，最年轻的39岁。
Most of the patients in the community are over 60 or 70 years old and the youngest is 39 years old.
“家里妈妈先得病，儿子媳妇慢慢都得了，最后一家人全部感染。
"My mother got sick first, my son's wife slowly got it, and finally the whole family got infected.
”刘安安说。
"said Liu Anan.
2“加班找工作”自媒体人赫兹想找疫区老人们做个选题。
2. "Overtime job-hunting" Since media person Hertz wants to find the old people in affected areas to do a topic.
有一天早上，他听到母亲和外婆吵了一架，外婆要出去，母亲坚决不让。
One morning, he heard his mother and grandmother quarrel. She wanted to go out.
那个瞬间他突然想，不能出门的武汉老人大概也有同样的场景。
That moment he suddenly thought, can not go out of Wuhan old people probably have the same scene.
采访中，他听到了很多故事。
In the interview, he heard many stories.
有老人起得很早，怕打扰孩子们休息，电视不敢开得很大声，屏幕闪烁，坐在沙发上发呆。
Some old people get up early, afraid to disturb the children to rest, TV dare not open very loud, screen flicker, sitting on the sofa dazed.
还有两个老人，儿子在国外，无法归家，每天在阳台上晒着一排口罩。
There are also two old men, sons abroad, can not come home, every day on the balcony in a row of masks.
他将这些都写了下来。
He wrote it all down.
渐渐地，不断有人找来，想要做点什么。
Little by little, people kept looking for something to do.
刘安安也看到了，给他看了自己的工作证件、劳工合同。
Liu Anan also saw, showed him his working papers, labor contracts.
他们商量着，发布了一则招募信息，招给老人送菜和打电话的人。
They talked about it and posted a job posting for the old man to deliver food and call the caller.
55岁的橘子在朋友圈看见了招募信息，她想，自己反正退休在家，闲着也是闲着，不如尽一份力。
Orange, 55, saw recruiting messages in her circle of friends and thought it would be better to do her part, since she was retired anyway and idle.
打电话的志愿者总共有五位，每人负责10个老人，如无特殊需求，隔两天打一次。
A total of five volunteers called, each responsible for 10 elderly people, if no special needs, every two days.
在与刘安安进行了一番恳谈后，橘子得到三个老人的电话，并被要求不能外泄。
After an earnest conversation with Anan Liu, the orange got a call from the three old men and was told not to leak.
一位杜姓老人告诉橘子，自己的儿媳妇是医生，一直上班没回家，孙子10岁，儿子在照顾孙子，她很担心，边说边流泪。
An old man named Du told Orange that her daughter-in-law, a doctor, had not come home from work. Sun Tzu, 10, was looking after her grandson.
聊到后来，杜奶奶拜托橘子买些汤圆。
Later, Grandma Du asked the oranges to buy some dumplings.
过了十多分钟，又打电话问，能不能再买些瘦肉、青椒和豆腐干。
After more than ten minutes, I called again and asked if I could buy more lean meat, green pepper and bean curd.
“他们一般都不开口。
"They don't usually open their mouths.
武汉这些老人特别善良，不想给人家增添太多麻烦。
Wuhan these old people are very kind, do not want to give others too much trouble.
”橘子知道，一旦老人开口，通常事情已经很紧急了。
The orange knew that once the old man opened his mouth, it was usually very urgent.
她将情况反馈给刘安安，隔天再问，东西已经送到。
She reported back to Anan Liu, the next day to ask, things have been delivered.
五十余人的志愿者群就这样诞生了。
Thus was born a community of more than fifty volunteers.
更多志愿者身处外地，负责在群里找物资、捐物资，尤其是口罩。
More volunteers are in the field, looking for supplies, donations and, above all, masks.
活动进入良性循环。
Activities enter a virtuous circle.
一些志愿者给老人打电话，叮嘱他们不要出门，陪他们聊天，将老人的需求反馈到志愿者群，刘安安带着人去配送。
Some volunteers called the elderly, telling them not to go out, chatting with them and giving their needs back to the volunteer group.
但真正行动遇到的阻力比想象中大。
But the resistance to real action is greater than expected.
有时候刘安安敲老人的门，对方一看人送东西，马上说自己家里还有菜，要她将东西送给更需要的人。
Sometimes Andy Liu knocked on the old man's door, the other side looked at the delivery, immediately said that there are dishes at home, asked her to give things to more needy people.
她听到这些话时，心里蛮高兴的。
When she heard this, she was quite happy.
但也有些人不理解，隔着门让刘安安快点走。
But also some people do not understand, across the door to let Liu'an hurry to go.
她就将菜转送给了路上穿着荧光色衣服的保洁人员。
She then relayed the dishes to cleaners in fluorescent clothes on the road.
刘安安是个网格员，扣掉社保，每月工资两千多块钱。
Anan Liu is a grid worker, social security deductions, more than two thousand dollars a month.
同事问她，为什么要给自己加班找工作。
A colleague asked her why she had to work overtime for herself.
做社区工作，他们大多不敢回家。
As community workers, most of them are afraid to go home.
“每天接触那么多人，也担心会被感染，自己不知道，再传染给家里人。
"Contact so many people every day, also worry about being infected, do not know, and then infect their families.
”刘安安一个人住，65岁的父母离得不远，骑车10分钟能到。
"Anan Liu lives alone, her 65-year-old parents are not far away and can ride for 10 minutes.
每天上班时，她会顺路将生活补给给父母拿过去。
Every day at work, she would stop by to get supplies for her parents.
但东西，她只敢放在楼下，不敢送上楼。
But she only dared to put it downstairs, and not upstairs.
她知道，与自己的父母情况相似，社区的老年人年纪大，抵抗能力弱，大多没有口罩，出门买东西容易被感染。
She knew that, similar to her parents, the elderly in the community were old, vulnerable, mostly without masks, and vulnerable to infection when they went out to buy things.
这是她决定帮老人们买菜的原因之一。
That's one of the reasons she decided to help the old people buy food.
赫兹将刘安安的超负荷工作看在眼里，“我们不是要成立民间组织，自己来做一件事，我们应该成为基层工作者的手跟脚。
"We are not going to set up civil organizations to do something for ourselves. We should be the hands and feet of grassroots workers.
”他想，如果这种模式可行，就写文章告诉大家。
If this model works, he thought, then write an article and tell everyone.
而关键是，要有一个如同刘安安般，愿意“加班找工作”的人。
The key is to have a person like Liu An-An who is willing to "work overtime to find work."
3基层工作者的苦恼刘安安现在负责社区车辆调度，有四辆车和四个司机待命。
Grass-roots Worker Anan Liu is now in charge of the community vehicle dispatch, with four cars and four drivers on standby.
这些车辆主要用来送医护人员上班，送有慢性病的老年人去医院开药，送肾衰竭病人做透析。
These vehicles are mainly used to transport medical staff to work, to take chronically ill people to hospitals to prescribe drugs and to deliver dialysis to patients with renal failure.
“今天司机跟我反映了，他说他不愿意接医护人员了。
"The driver told me today he said he didn't want to pick up the paramedics.
虽说他知道医护人员辛苦，但他也怕被感染。
Though he knew the paramedics were hard-working, he was afraid of getting infected.
”一名医护人员在他车上，一边打电话跟妈妈哭，一边咳嗽。
"A paramedic was in his car, crying over the phone and coughing.
司机看在眼里，有点慌。
The driver saw it with a slight fright.
刘安安提起这件事颇为感慨，“医生比我们可怜，他们压力太大了，武汉蛮多医院防护不到位的，很多同事可能感染了，他们都怕。
"The doctors are more miserable than we are. They are under too much pressure. Wuhan multi-hospital protection is not in place, many colleagues may be infected, they are afraid.
”她还遇到过一名用车者，拜托司机将发热病人的物品送去医院。
She also met a motorist who asked him to take items from a heating patient to a hospital.
“她不在车上，家属都怕，叫我们司机去送。
"She's not in the car. Her family are afraid. Call our driver.
”还有一次，一个婆婆哭着跟刘安安说，儿子在医院感染，已经死亡，“婆婆说我不想活了，就想去看我儿子最后一面。
"On another occasion, a mother-in-law tearfully told Liu An that her son had contracted the infection in the hospital and died.
”刘安安心里难受，还是将这位密切接触者送到了医院。
"Anan Liu was very upset and took the close contact to the hospital.
发热人员由街道工作人员统一安排车辆接送，但车只有一辆，刘安安听说是由工作人员自家的皮卡车改装，他们叫它“敞篷车”。
Fever by the street staff unified arrangement of vehicles, but only one car, Liu Anan was heard by the staff of their pickup truck modification, they call it "convertible."
没有病床，病人会找社区工作人员，骂他们不作为。
Without beds, patients turn to community workers and scold them for inaction.
刘安安觉得冤枉，按照工作流程，居民发热需向社区上报，社区再报给街道卫生服务中心，由街道安排就诊，由医生安排做CT与核酸测试，确诊后排队住院。
Anan Liu feels wronged, according to the workflow, residents need to report fever to the community, the community reported to the street health services centres, arranged by the streets, doctors arranged for CT and nucleic acid testing, after diagnosis queuing up for hospitalization.
床位紧张，在家隔离的病人，都要坐“敞篷车”去医院打针。
Bed is tight, the patient that is isolated at home, must take "convertibles" to the hospital to inject.
为了保证司机安全，社区用车不接发热病人。
In order to ensure the driver's safety, the community car does not take heat patients.
刘安安明白，如果防护到位，他们估计不会那么害怕，但实际情况是，连口罩都需要自费购买，消毒液也只剩下一两瓶了。
Anan Liu knows they wouldn't be so scared if they had the protection in place, but the truth is that even masks need to be bought at their own expense, leaving only one or two bottles of disinfectant.
她曾经和母亲说，“拿这么点钱做这种事情就是卖命了，真的不想做。
She once said to her mother, "To do such a thing for such a small sum of money is to die, really do not want to do it.
”母亲说，“你可以走，但你得把这段时间忙完，现在绝对不能逃避。
"You may go," said his mother, "but you must get through this time, and you will not escape now.
”刘安安无奈调侃，父母都是国企退休老员工，思想作风“特别好”。
"Liu'an helpless mockery, parents are retired state-owned employees, ideological style" particularly good. "
以前她自己在家开淘宝店。
She used to run her own Taobao store.
供应商不做了，她也就打算改行。
If the supplier doesn't do it, she plans to switch.
附近一个社区在招网格员，这份工看起来舒服、离家近、有双休，2019年10月入职。
A nearby community is hiring a grid worker who looks comfortable, close to home, has a double break, and took up his job in October 2019.
刘安安也不愿以真名示人。
Anan Liu also does not want to show his real name.
“我不想出名，也不想被领导问责。
"I don't want to be famous or accountable.
”她现在心里最不舒服的，是有的领导摆拍作秀，来拍了照就走了，前后待不到10分钟。
"The most uncomfortable thing about her now was that some of the leaders put on a show and took pictures and left in less than 10 minutes.
4恐惧与责任一些志愿者报名配送，后来又告诉刘安安，家里人不放心，还是不去了。
Fear and Responsibility Some volunteers signed up to deliver, and later told Liu An'an that the family was not at ease, or did not go.
更多的时候，司机将她送到楼下，安保陪她将东西拎上楼。
More often than not, the driver took her downstairs, and the security guard accompanied her upstairs with her.
发热人数多的居民楼，贴着红色警示字牌。
The residential buildings with a large number of heating people are affixed with red warning signs.
刘安安将东西送上楼，放在门口，远远地给老人拍个照，彼此不敢近距离接触。
Liu An sent things upstairs and put them in front of the door, taking pictures of the old man from afar, afraid to get close to each other.
有司机问，你们有什么保护措施吗？刘安安答，有防护服，很薄的那种。
Drivers asked, do you have any protection measures? Anda Liu, there are protective clothing, very thin kind.
赫兹听了难过。
Hertz was sorry to hear that.
他说，“大家就凭着那么一点点道德意识跟人道主义精神，做那么一点点事情。
"People do a little bit of it with a little bit of moral awareness and humanitarianism," he said.
但面对现实，我们也会害怕。
But in the face of reality, we are afraid.
”安吉拉顾不得考虑那么多。
Angela did not mind that much.
他其实不是武汉人，只是来武汉出差，封城之际，选择了留下，成为一名志愿者。
In fact, he is not Wuhan, just came to Wuhan on business trip, when the city chose to stay, to become a volunteer.
“当时是我这个人的本能，我知道我有能力做很多事情，我现在不能走，没有那么多为什么。
"It was my instinct, I knew I had the ability to do a lot of things, I can't go now, not so much why.
”他想尽力救人。
He tried to save lives.
有些老小区根本没有物业，他就找附近小卖部的阿姨去问，哪里有低保户，谁家需要帮助。
Some old residential areas have no property at all, he went to the aunt of the nearby commissary to ask, where there are low-income households, who needs help.
将零散的信息拼到一起。
Put together scattered pieces of information.
老社区里，让他难受和恐惧的事很多，但看得多了，他开始有些麻痹，现在还顾不上担心自己的情绪。
In the old community, there were many things to grieve and fear, but he saw more, he began to be a little paralyzed, and now he was not worried about his emotions.
安吉拉从1月20日晚开始行动，最开始是自己找货源，自己去拉，自己送去医院。
Angela started her operation on the night of January 20th, first of all by herself to find supplies, to pull their own, to the hospital.
在供货商处，他遇到了其他四个志愿者，三观一致，很聊得来，就组了一个志愿者小群。
At the supplier's, he met four other volunteers, who looked at each other in the same light and talked to each other.
疫情前期，他们一直在帮忙购买、运输物资，送去各大医院。
Prior to the outbreak, they have been helping to buy, transport supplies, to major hospitals.
群里大多是90后，只有一位37岁，被安吉拉称作“大财主”，出资很多。
Most of the group was 90 years old, and only one, 37, was referred to by Angela as the "rich man," who contributed a lot.
湖北物资渐少，他们叫人从安徽阜阳、合肥那边拉货，直到29日晚上，送货必经路被挖断了，车过不去，人也过不去，只得停止运送物资。
Hubei fewer supplies, they had people from Anhui Fuyang, Hefei side pull goods, until the evening of 29, delivery must be cut through the road, cars can not cross, people can not cross, had to stop the delivery of goods.
也正是从那以后，他们决定转去救助武汉城里的老人和孩子。
Since then, they have decided to turn to Wuhan to help the elderly and children.
后来，其他同伴渐渐停了下来，没钱、没心力，都累了。
Later, the other companions gradually stopped, no money, no effort, are tired.
采访邀约发出五天后，安吉拉才有时间接受连线采访。
It was five days after the interview that Angela had time for the interview.
前两天，电商巨头阿里巴巴联系他，承诺会将八十多户的每日菜品供应运至他处，由他负责分发，减少了物资采买这一步。
Two days ago, electric giant Alibaba contacted him, promising to ship more than 80 daily food supplies to other locations, where he distributed them, reducing the need for procurement.
他还联系各个社区，拜托愿意帮忙的工作人员，把菜送到老人门口，减轻了分发物资的任务量。
He also reached out to communities, asking willing staff to bring food to the old man's door and lightening the task of distributing supplies.
他打算将更多时间用来照顾家里的两个孩子。
He plans to spend more time looking after his two children.
安吉拉联系过一家小区福利院，里面住着十几个孩子。
Angela contacted a community welfare home where a dozen children lived.
疫情发生后，福利院做好防护，封闭起来，不再接收新的孩子。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, the welfare homes were well protected, sealed off and no new children were received.
10岁男孩有一个小姨，他打过电话去问，对方说自己和姐姐关系不好，自己不管，挂了电话。
A 10-year-old boy had an aunt who called and asked if she was on good terms with her sister. He hung up the phone.
11岁男孩至今也不知道，奶奶已经不在人世。
The 11-year-old boy still does not know that Grandma is no longer alive.
两个小男孩捧着安吉拉的iPad上网课。
Two little boys were holding Angela's iPad online class.
而这个29岁的大男孩苦恼的是，等他们长大后，他该如何讲述这一年发生了什么。
The 29-year-old bothered about how he would tell what happened when they grew up.
（应受访对象要求，刘安安为化名，安吉拉、赫兹、橘子为网名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Anan Liu's call for Southern Weekend, a pseudonym for Angela, Hertz and Orange, is now open to all readers on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
老幼所依：武汉“封城”后，他们照顾孤独的老人和孩子。
Old and young depending on: Wuhan "closed the city", they took care of lonely old people and children.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "老幼所依：武汉“封城”后，他们照顾孤独的老人和孩子";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Old & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
