平均每天3.1篇文章  中国科学界“战疫”。
An average of 3.1 articles a day are written about "epidemic" in Chinese science.
周小铃。
Zhou Xiaoling.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲（数据整理：南方周末记者周小铃、南方周末实习生叶梓。
(Data collation: Southern Weekend reporter Zhou Xiaoling, Southern Weekend internship Ye Zi.
时间截止于2月5日）全文共4521字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4 521 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
自1月15日至2月5日，中国学者参与发表的新冠肺炎学术文章共66篇，平均每天发表3.1篇，参与研究人员总计590位。
From January 15 to February 5, Chinese scholars participated in the publication of 66 academic articles on New Crown Pneumonia, with an average of 3.1 articles per day, for a total of 590 researchers.
内容上，对传染病流行预测的研究最集中，共有26篇文章；病毒分析的20篇；临床数据分析9篇；药物研发6篇。
In terms of content, the most concentrated research on epidemic prediction of infectious diseases included 26 articles; 20 articles on virus analysis; 9 articles on clinical data analysis; and 6 articles on drug research and development.
非研究论文的专家观点和信息资讯共有5篇。
There are 5 expert opinions and information about non-research papers.
SARS期间，2002年11月－2003年7月，在WebofScience和PubMed两个数据库上进行检索发现，前者的SARS相关文献2295篇，其中中国学者发表588篇，平均每天2.17篇；后者共680篇，中国学者占119篇，平均每天0.44篇。
During the SARS period, November 2002-July 2003, a search was made on the WebofScience and PubMed databases. The former contained 2,295 SARS-related articles, of which 588 were published by Chinese scholars, averaging 2.17 articles per day; the latter 680 were published by Chinese scholars and 119 were by Chinese scholars, averaging 0.44 articles per day.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 周小铃南方周末实习生 叶梓责任编辑 | 张玥2020年2月9日，由国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山领衔的“中国2019年新型冠状病毒感染的临床特征”研究，在预印本网站medRxiv上发表。
This paper was first published in Southern Weekend without authorization by Zhou Xiaozheng Southern Weekend Intern. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
该研究对国内已确诊的1099例新冠肺炎患者的临床特征进行了回顾，其中仅1.18%的患者与野生动物有过直接接触，31.30%的患者去过武汉，71.80%的患者与来自武汉的人员接触过。
The study reviewed the clinical features of 1,099 newly diagnosed cases of pneumonia in China, with only 1.18 percent of patients having direct contact with wild animals, 31.30 percent having visited Wuhan, and 71.80 percent having had contact with people from Wuhan.
并发现，新冠肺炎的中位潜伏期为3.0天（范围从0至24天），最长可达24天。
Median latency was found to be 3.0 days (ranging from 0 to 24 days) for new crown pneumonia and up to 24 days.
在此六天前，中共中央政治局常务委员会指出，要加大科研攻关力度，“战胜疫情离不开科技支撑”，要组织动员全国科研工作者参与疫情防控方面的科研攻关，推动相关数据和病例资料的开放共享。
Six days ago, the Standing Committee of the Politburo pointed out that "scientific and technological support is indispensable for overcoming the epidemic," and that the country's scientific research workers should be mobilized to take part in scientific research on disease prevention and control, so as to promote open sharing of relevant data and case data.
据南方周末记者梳理，国际论文期刊数据库中最早一篇关于新冠肺炎的研究发表于2020年1月15日——来自浙江大学的一篇题为《检测人类呼吸道病毒感染的最新进展》的论文发表于《医学病毒学杂志》。
According to Southern Weekend correspondent, one of the earliest studies of new crown pneumonia in an international journal journal database was published on January 15, 2020 - a paper from Zhejiang University entitled "Recent Progress in Detection of Human Respiratory Virus Infection," published in the Journal of Medical Virology.
自1月15日至2月5日，中国学者参与发表的新冠肺炎学术文章共66篇，平均每天发表3.1篇，参与研究人员总计590位。
From January 15 to February 5, Chinese scholars participated in the publication of 66 academic articles on New Crown Pneumonia, with an average of 3.1 articles per day, for a total of 590 researchers.
这其中，11篇发表于国际顶级刊物。
Of these, 11 were published in top international journals.
而在SARS期间，2002年11月－2003年7月，在Web of Science和PubMed两个数据库上进行检索发现，前者的SARS相关文献2295篇，其中中国学者发表588篇，平均每天2.17篇；后者共680篇，中国学者占119篇，平均每天0.44篇。
During the SARS period, from November 2002 to July 2003, a search was made on the Web of Science and PubMed databases. The former contained 2,295 SARS-related articles, of which 588 were published by Chinese scholars, or an average of 2.17 articles per day; the latter consisted of 680 articles, 119 by Chinese scholars, or an average of 0.44 articles per day.
121天，66篇论文2020年1月15日以来，国内外的中国学者关于新冠肺炎的论文数量逐渐增多，1月29日和2月4日达到最高峰，分别达到11篇和9篇。
21 Days, 66 Papers Since January 15, 2020, Chinese scholars at home and abroad on the new crown pneumonia gradually increased, January 29 and February 4 reached a peak of 11 and 9, respectively.
比如1月24日，全天发表5篇文章，其中4篇发布于国际顶级刊物。
On January 24, for example, five articles were published throughout the day, four of them in top international journals.
南方周末记者查询的数据主要来源于中国科学院武汉文献情报中心推出的“2019-nCov”新型冠状病毒科研动态监测平台，以及中国知网、Elsevier、Wiley Online Library等期刊论文平台。
The data collected by Southern Weekend reporters mainly come from the 2019-nCov new coronavirus research dynamic monitoring platform launched by the Wuhan Documentation and Information Center of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, as well as the China News Network, Elsevier and Wiley Online Library.
这66篇论文按照发布平台，可以分为两类，一类是正式发布于专业期刊的，有32篇；另外一类发布于BioRxiv预印版平台和MedRxiv预印版平台，34篇。
The 66 papers were divided into two categories, one officially published in professional journals, with 32 papers, and the other published on the BioRxiv pre-printing platform and MedRxiv pre-printing platform, 34.
BioRxiv预印版平台是一个储存及发布医学类学术论文的平台。
BioRxiv pre-printing plate platform is a platform for storing and publishing medical academic papers.
在该平台发表的论文未经同行评议，只要经过专业人员进行相关学术及非学术审查（如抄袭、明显错误等）后1-2天内，论文就会在网站上刊登。
Papers published on the platform are not peer-reviewed and are posted on the website within 1-2 days of professional review (e.g., plagiarism, obvious errors, etc.).
刊登后的论文有单一的电子标识符，可被检索和引用，后期亦不影响正式发表。
The published papers have a single electronic identifier that can be retrieved and referenced without affecting their official publication at a later stage.
MedRxiv预印版平台亦是医学研究论文预印本发布平台。
MedRxiv pre-printing plate platform is also a preprint of medical research papers published platform.
在正式发布的文章中，有11篇发布于全球顶级刊物，21篇发布于其他期刊杂志，这21篇依据发表数量排名为《医学病毒学杂志》（Journal of Medical Virology）、中国知网、SSRN社会科学研究网、《旅游医学与传染病》（Travel Medicine and Infectious Disease）、《新兴微生物与感染》（Emerging Microbes & Infections）、《病毒学杂志》（Journal of Virology）、《传染病杂志》（Journal of Infection）、《中国科学：生命科学》（SCIENCE CHINA Life Sciences）、《放射学》（Radiology）。
Among the official articles, 11 were published in top global journals and 21 in other journals, based on published numbers: Journal of Medical Virology, China Knowledge, SSRN Social Science Research Network, Chinese Science: Emerging Microorganisms and Infections, SCIENCE CHINA Life Sciences, Radiology.
（数据整理：南方周末记者周小铃、南方周末实习生叶梓。
(Data collation: Southern Weekend reporter Zhou Xiaoling, Southern Weekend Intern Ye Zi.
时间截止于2月5日）2“四大顶级医学期刊”的影响因子《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）、《柳叶刀》（Lancet）、《美国医学会杂志》（JAMA）、《英国医学期刊》（BMJ）被称作全球“四大顶级医学期刊”。
The New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), The Lancet, the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) and the British Medical Journal (BMJ) are called the world's four top medical journals.
在这66篇论文中，发表于这“四大顶刊”的共8篇，另有3篇发表于顶级科学杂志《自然》（Nature）。
Of the 66 papers, eight were published in the top four and three in Nature, the top science journal.
其中《新英格兰医学杂志》2篇，均出自中国疾病预防控制中心。
Two of the New England Journal of Medicine are from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in China.
《柳叶刀》6篇，有2篇的第一作者为武汉金银潭医院，2篇来自香港大学李嘉诚医学院，1篇的第一作者出自中国疾病预防控制中心，最后1篇通讯作者为中国工程院院士、中国医学科学院院长王辰和中国科学院院士、中国疾控中心主任高福以及英国牛津大学和美国弗吉尼亚大学的医学专家，是对武汉新冠肺炎事件的评论文章。
"Lancet" 6, the first author of 2 articles is Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, 2 from Li Ka Shing Medical School, The University of Hong Kong, 1 piece by Wang Chen, Dean of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Gao Fu, Director of CDC, and medical experts from Oxford University and the University of Virginia.
《自然》的3篇文章中，有两篇第一作者出自中国科学院武汉病毒研究所的石正丽团队，一篇的第一作者出自复旦大学上海公共卫生临床中心和公共卫生学院的张永振团队。
Two of the Nature's three articles were by Shi Zhengli of the Wuhan Institute of Virus at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and one by Zhang Yongzhen of Fudan University's Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and School of Public Health.
值得一提的是，张永振教授也是中国疾控中心传染病研究所的研究员。
Professor Zhang Yongzhen is also a researcher at the China CDC Infectious Diseases Research Institute.
文章发表在顶级刊物上，对研究者而言意义不同。
The articles are published in top journals and have a different meaning for researchers.
根据2019年6月20日公布的最新SCI影响因子，不同期刊“影响因子”为：《新英格兰医学杂志》最高，70.67；其次是《柳叶刀》（59.1），《自然》（43.07），《传染病杂志》（5.099）、《病毒学杂志》（4.324），目前中国学者发表数量最多的《医学病毒学杂志》影响因子为2.049。
According to the latest SCI impact factor published on June 20, 2019, the New England Journal of Medicine had the highest impact factor of 70.67, followed by The Lancet (59.1), Nature (43.07), Infectious Diseases (5.099) and Virology (4.324).
在学术研究领域，“影响因子”指期刊前两年发表的文献在当前年的平均被引用次数。
In academic research, "impact factor" refers to the average number of citations of the literature published in the previous two years.
影响因子越高，表明文章的被引用率越高，反映出该期刊发表的研究成果影响力越大，学术水准越高。
The higher the influencing factor, the higher the citation rate, and the higher the impact of the journal's published research, the higher academic standards.
一位该领域的高校研究者对南方周末记者说，“《新英格兰医学杂志》是70个影响因子，分数很高，（作者所属单位）有的机构会奖励数万元。
"The New England Journal of Medicine is a high score of 70 influencing factors, with some organizations rewarding tens of thousands of yuan," a researcher in the field told Southern Weekend.
”一位曾就职于国内顶尖三甲医院的业内人士说，发表论文是为了对科研成果进行说明和公布，而目前全球论文发表的数量和质量决定着科研成就。
A former employee at the country's top triple-A hospital said the paper was published to illustrate and publicize the results of research, which is now determined by the number and quality of global papers published.
她解释，如果能发表SCI文章，即被SCI（Scientific Citation Index，《科学引文索引》）收录的期刊所刊登的论文，基本上每个医疗机构都有明文规定奖励。
She explained that if SCI articles were published, they would be published in journals published by the SCI (Scientific Citation Index), and that virtually every health-care institution had an explicit incentive.
在一份顶级刊物中，也分有不同栏目。
In a top-level publication, there are also different columns.
上述高校研究者举例，以《柳叶刀》为例，它的目录上有research paper（研究论文）、也有case report（案例汇报）。
The Lancet, for example, has a catalogue of research papers and case reports.
“目前疾控中心发表的不是科学研究，是案例汇报，也就是说‘掌握病人的治疗信息，把这个信息公布出去’，这也是文章。
"What CDC is publishing is not scientific research, it's case reports, that is to say, 'get the patient's treatment information and make it public', said the paper.
”据其观察，在《科学》（Science）杂志中，研究论文不占主流，“案例汇报”“科学史回顾”和“广告”占60%。
He observed that research papers were not in the mainstream in the journal Science, with 60 per cent of "case reports," "reviews of the history of science" and "advertisements."
因为案例汇报是一手信息呈现，在审核上也会比研究论文快一些。
Because the case report is a first-hand information presentation, in the audit will also be faster than the research paper.
在新冠肺炎的突发疫情中，为了鼓励科研工作者尽快推出针对疫情的研究成果，1月22日，国家自然科学基金委员会启动了新冠肺炎研究专项，资助对此次疫情进行的研究项目，资助期2年，选择20个项目，每个项目资助150万。
In order to encourage researchers to launch research on the outbreak as soon as possible, on January 22, the National Natural Science Foundation launched the New Crown Pneumonia Research Project to fund research into the outbreak for a two-year period, selecting 20 projects and funding 1.5 million each.
次日，中国科技部启动了新冠肺炎疫情应急科研攻关项目，包括15位专家组成员，当天已有8个应急攻关项目启动，经费拨付到位。
The following day, China's Ministry of Science and Technology launched the New Crown Pneumonia Emergency Research Key Project, including 15 expert group members.
同日，中科院病毒所牵头，多院校联合，成立了13位专家组成的应急攻关专家组。
On the same day, the Chinese Academy of Sciences led by the virus, multi-university joint, the formation of 13 experts to solve the emergency expert group.
3“公开数据的方式就是发表论文”据南方周末记者计算，在这66篇文章中，参与的中国研究人员多达590位。
"The way to publish data is to publish a paper," according to Southern Weekend, in which 590 Chinese researchers participated.
据作者的所属单位，可分为高校、科研机构、疾控中心和医院四类。
According to the author's subordinate units, can be divided into four categories: universities, scientific research institutions, CDC and hospitals.
其中，高校人数占比45%，涉及43所国内外高校；疾控中心其次，占20%，涉及国家、省、市、区各级疾控中心17个；医院占18%，武汉金银潭医院参与人数最多。
Colleges and universities account for 45 percent of the total, with 43 domestic and foreign universities involved; CDC, with 20 percent; CDC, 17; hospitals, 18 percent; and Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, the largest number.
研究机构占比17%。
Research institutions account for 17 per cent.
高校和科研机构当中表现突出的是，中国科学院发表论文11篇、复旦大学参与发表论文8篇、香港大学9篇、首都医科大学3篇。
Notable among universities and scientific research institutions are 11 papers published by the Chinese Academy of Sciences, 8 papers published by Fudan University, 9 papers by the University of Hong Kong and 3 articles by the Capital Medical University.
（数据整理：南方周末记者周小铃、南方周末实习生叶梓。
(Data collation: Southern Weekend reporter Zhou Xiaoling, Southern Weekend Intern Ye Zi.
时间截止于2月5日）疾控中心在发表论文的人数和质量上，都很突出。
The CDC stands out for the number and quality of papers it publishes.
除了中国疾病预防控制中心外，此次发表新型冠状病毒论文的省市区级疾控中心达14家，省级包括湖北省、广东省、湖南省、贵州省、内蒙古疾控中心；市级包括武汉市、荆州市、成都市、安阳市、盘锦市、南昌市、咸阳市疾控中心；区级包括上海嘉定区、上海宝山区疾控中心；还有解放军疾控中心。
In addition to the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 provincial and municipal CDC centers have issued this new coronavirus treatise.The provincial level includes Wuhan, Jingzhou, Chengdu, Anyang, Panjin, Nanchang and Xianyang City.
中国疾病预防控制中心（The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention，简称“CDC”）成立于2002年，前身是中国预防医学科学院。
The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") was established in 2002, formerly the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
《中国健康报》曾采访原中国疾控中心主任李立明，他提到组建中国CDC的目的是让研究人员以控制疾病和解决公共卫生问题为目的搞科研。
In an interview with Li Liming, former director of the China CDC, China Health News mentioned that the CDC was formed in China to allow researchers to conduct scientific research aimed at controlling disease and solving public health problems.
目前，各级疾控中心共参与发表了11篇英文文献。
At present, CDC at all levels participated in the publication of 11 English literature.
其中，有2篇发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》，2篇发表于《自然》，1篇发表于《柳叶刀》，1篇发表于SSRN社会科学研究网，其余5篇中，3篇发表于BioRxiv预印版平台，2篇发表于medRxiv预印版平台。
Of these, two were published in the New England Journal of Medicine, two in Nature, one in The Lancet, one in the SSRN Social Science Research Network, three in the BioRxiv preprint platform and two in the medRxiv pre-printing platform.
各级疾控中心正式发表的6篇英文文献，均以手中所获得的一手患者数据为样本。
CDC at all levels of the official publication of the six English literature, are available in the hands of primary patient data as a sample.
疾控中心的论文集中，一大优势是对数据的掌握。
One of the great advantages of CDC's paper collection is its mastery of data.
一位公共卫生领域在读博士生告诉南方周末记者，她所在学院就有老师招募团队从网络上爬取数据写论文，“这属于有想法、没数据，只能辛苦地从网上获取数据。
A doctoral student in public health told Southern Weekend that her college had a team of faculty members who crawled data from the Internet to write essays. "It's an idea, no data, it's hard to get data online.
就看谁掌握了数据库”。
It depends on who has the database.
前述高校研究者说，中国暴发疫情，疾控中心必须第一时间汇报给WHO（世界卫生组织），“对于研究机构来说，公开数据的方式就是发表论文”。
The CDC must first report the outbreak to the World Health Organization (WHO) and "for research institutions, the way to release data is to publish papers," said the university researcher.
4病毒来源等疑团待解从研究内容来看，这些论文中，在传染病流行预测、药物研发、病毒检测与基因分析、临床数据研究等方面都有所突破。
From the point of view of research contents, these papers have made breakthroughs in infectious disease epidemic prediction, drug research and development, virus detection and gene analysis, and clinical data research.
具体来看，对传染病流行预测的研究最集中，共有26篇文章；病毒分析的20篇；临床数据分析9篇；药物研发6篇。
Specifically, the highest concentration of epidemiological studies was in 26 articles; 20 in viral analysis; 9 in clinical data analysis; and 6 in drug research and development.
非研究论文的专家观点和信息资讯共有5篇。
There are 5 expert opinions and information about non-research papers.
（数据整理：南方周末记者周小铃、南方周末实习生叶梓。
(Data collation: Southern Weekend reporter Zhou Xiaoling, Southern Weekend Intern Ye Zi.
时间截止于2月5日）在病毒基因分析方面，早在2020年1月10日，中国疾控中心、复旦大学公共卫生临床中心和公共卫生学院教授张永振通过GenBank公开了暴发于武汉的新型冠状病毒的基因组序列，以供研究人员下载、使用和分析，同时声明，如需发布使用数据的结果，需与其联系。
In terms of viral genetic analysis, as early as January 10, 2020, China CDC, Fudan University Public Health Clinical Center and Professor Zhang Yongzhen of the School of Public Health released through GenBank the genome sequence of the new coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan for researchers to download, use and analyze.
2020年1月22日，南开大学生命科学学院教授高山团队在使用张永振教授公开的基因组数据后，将研究结果发布在《生物信息学》期刊上，引发张永振教授不满，并要求其立即撤稿。
On January 22, 2020, Professor Alpine's team at Nankai University's School of Life Sciences published the results in the journal Bioinformatics, using Professor Zhang's published genome data, provoking Professor Zhang Yongzhen to withdraw his work immediately.
对此，高山回应南方周末记者，重大卫生公共事件中的数据需要共享，没有人拥有这些数据的所有权，而疾控中心需要在第一时间向社会公开。
In response, Alpine responded to Southern Weekend reporter that data from major public events in health need to be shared, that no one owns the data, and that the CDC needs to be made publicly available in the first place.
截至发稿前，张永振教授尚未回复南方周末记者的采访邮件。
By the time of writing, Professor Zhang Yongzhen had not replied to Southern Weekend reporter's interview email.
备受关注的武汉病毒所石正丽团队最早的病毒基因分析文章1月23日发在BioRxiv预印版平台，由中科院病毒研究所、武汉市金银潭医院和湖北省疾控中心等机构共同署名，研究5个病人体内的病毒全基因序列溯源，研究结果表明，蝙蝠中的冠状病毒的序列一致性高达96%。
The earliest genetic analysis of the virus by the Wuhan virus team was published on January 23 on the BioRxiv pre-printing platform, co-signed by the Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Hubei Province CDC. The results show that the sequence consistency of coronavirus in bats is 96%.
近日，一名印度研究人员在上述平台发表文章称，武汉新型冠状病毒棘突蛋白中含有四个特有的插入序列，其中有序列与艾滋病病毒相似，引发舆论猜疑，矛头直指武汉病毒所。
Wuhan coronavirus spines contain four distinct sequences of the coronavirus, which have sequences similar to those of the virus, sparking public suspicion and pointing to the Wuhan virus, an Indian researcher said on the platform.
2月2日，石正丽回复南方周末记者短信称，“相信美国不良媒体造谣，相信印度无底线的科学家猜疑，不配我费口舌。
On February 2, Shi Zhengli sent a reply to Southern Weekend reporter text message saying: "I believe that the US media disinformation, believe that India's bottomless scientists suspect, not worthy of my tongue.
”当日，石正丽亦在其朋友圈发表了类似观点，并转附印度学者撤稿消息。
Shi Zhengli made a similar comment in her circle of friends and forwarded a copy of the draft from an Indian scholar.
次日，石正丽团队早先发表在BioRxiv预印版平台的研究成果，正式发表于《自然》，并提出这种新型冠状病毒与SARS-CoV使用相同的细胞进入受体ACE2（紧张素转化酶2）。
The next day, Shi Zhengli's team published the results of an earlier study published on the BioRxiv pre-printing platform, officially published in Nature, and suggested that the new coronavirus uses the same cells as SARS-CoV to enter the receptor ACE2.
根据最新研究成果来看，目前对于病毒基因分析的讨论还没有得到充分回答，尤其是对于病毒传播中间宿主的分析仍没有明确答案。
According to the latest research results, the current discussion of virus gene analysis has not been fully answered, especially for the virus transmission intermediate host analysis is still not clear.
此外，病毒源头等问题，答案仍然不清楚。
Moreover, questions like the source of the virus remain unclear.
斯克里普斯研究所（Scripps Research Institute）的进化生物学家克里斯蒂安•安德森（Kristian Andersen）在《柳叶刀》上推测，存在感染者将病毒带至华南海鲜市场的可能性，即病毒可能诞生自其他场所，传播到华南海鲜市场，而后在该市场大规模暴发。
In The Lancet, Kristian Andersen, an evolutionary biologist at the Scripps Research Institute, speculates in The Lancet that there is a possibility that infected people could bring the virus to the South China seafood market, where it could have been born elsewhere and spread to the South China seafood market, where it then erupted on a large scale.
在武汉首批41名患者中，有14例无华南海鲜市场接触历史。
Of the first 41 patients in Wuhan, 14 had no history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
同样，由中国多级、14家疾控中心发表于1月29日的论文显示，在2020年1月1日前发病的病例中，与华南海鲜批发市场相关的为55%。
Similarly, a paper published on January 29 by 14 Chinese multi-level, disease-control centers showed that 55 percent of the cases that developed before January 1, 2020 were related to the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
在药物研究方面。
In the field of pharmaceutical research.
2月4日，武汉病毒所最新研究发现，瑞德西韦（remdesivir）和氯喹（chloroquine）在体外控制2019-nCoV感染中有效。
A recent study by Wuhan Virus Institute on February 4 found that remdesivir and chloroquine were effective in controlling 2019-nCoV infection in vitro.
据公开资料介绍，中国科学院武汉病毒研究所在1月21日申报了瑞德西韦（remdesivir）的中国发明专利（用途专利），针对抗2019新型冠状病毒的用途。
The Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences announced on January 21 a Chinese patent for invention (patent for use) for a new coronavirus resistant to 2019, according to public sources.
并将通过PCT（专利合作协定）途径进入全球主要国家，但最终是否能够申请通过，还无法确定。
And it will be through PCT (Patent Cooperation Agreement) access to key countries around the world, but it is uncertain whether it will ever be able to apply for passage.
2月5日下午，据新华社消息，瑞德西韦在国家卫健委、国家药监局等多部门支持下，完成临床试验的注册审批工作，首批新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎重症患者将于2月6日试用该药。
On the afternoon of February 5, Xinhua reported that Rhetsevir had completed the registration and approval of clinical trials with the support of the State Health Commission and the State Administration of Pharmacy and Supervision, with the first serious cases of coronavirus-infected pneumonia to be tested on February 6.
对病毒的研究是艰难的。
The study of the virus is difficult.
在《血疫》这本描述埃博拉病毒的非虚构名著中写道，“在生物学上，不存在百分之百肯定的事情，一切都那么复杂，一切都千头万绪，每当你以为自己搞懂了什么，剥开一层迷障，却发现地下还有更深一层的复杂结构。
"There is no such thing as 100 percent biological certainty, everything is so complicated, everything is so jumbled up that every time you think you know something, you peel it off and discover a layer of complexity in the ground," says Bloody Plague, a nonfiction book describing the virus.
大自然和简单没什么关系。
Nature has nothing to do with simplicity.
”（南方周末记者高伊琛对本文亦有帮助）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Southern Weekend reporter Gao Yichen was also helpful to this article) called for "Southern Weekend" to solicit news leads from all readers on the front line of the New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
平均每天3.1篇文章  中国科学界“战疫”。
An average of 3.1 articles a day are written about "epidemic" in Chinese science.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "平均每天3.1篇文章  中国科学界“战疫”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
