当家庭主妇开起医护专车。
When a housewife drives a medical van.
蒋芷毓。
Jiang Zhiyu.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲新疆人何明荣本想晚点回家过年，不料遇上肺炎疫情，留下当起了志愿司机。
Xinjiang people He Mingrong originally wanted to go home late to celebrate the New Year, unexpectedly encountered pneumonia, left behind as a volunteer driver.
（受访者/图）全文共3066字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
(interviewee / diagram) The full text is 3066 words and it will take about 7 minutes to read.
这件事对我们一家人影响都挺大的，我小儿子还跟我说，妈妈，我最后悔就是没有学医，觉得出不了什么力。
It had a big impact on my family, and my little son told me, Mom, I regret that I didn't study medicine and didn't think I could do anything.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文|南方周末特约撰稿 蒋芷毓责任编辑 |吴筱羽何明荣1971年生，新疆人。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization. Jiang Zhi Yu, editor-in-charge at Southern Weekend, born in 1971, was born in Xinjiang.
过去二十多年里，“家庭主妇”的生活是她的全部。
For the past twenty years or so, "housewife" life was all she had.
2018年来武汉后，她没和家人商量，本着打发时间的念头，做了网约车司机。
Wuhan since 2018, she did not discuss with her family, in the idea of passing the time, do a car driver.
2020年春节，她一个人留在武汉，打算晚点回疆过年，哪知遇上了疫情暴发。
In 2020, the Spring Festival, she stayed alone in Wuhan, planning to delay the New Year back to the frontier, but it was an outbreak of the outbreak.
为阻止疫情蔓延，武汉中心城区自2020年1月26日零时始，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，实行机动车禁行管理。
In order to stop the spread of the epidemic, Wuhan central city has been under the ban on motor vehicles since 0000 hours on January 26, 2020, except for licensed transport vehicles, free transport vehicles and official vehicles.
城内封锁，医护、社区等各方面却还有着迫切的交通需求。
City blockades, medical, community and other aspects of the urgent transport needs.
禁行令4天前，滴滴开始招募志愿接送医护的司机，何明荣作出了当首批志愿者的决定。
Four days before the ban, dripping began to recruit drivers to volunteer for medical care, Ho Mingrong made the decision to be one of the first volunteers.
“咱们不能躲，没有地方躲。
We cannot hide; there is no place to hide.
”角色转换之下，家人有不理解，但到现在，也觉得做志愿者光荣。
"Under the role change, the family did not understand, but now, also feel honored to be volunteers.
从大年初一至今19天，何明荣一直无休。
From the New Year's Day to date 19 days, He Mingrong has not rest.
她见证了医护的辛劳心酸，她心疼他们，也被很多人感动。
She witnessed the pain of medical care, she loved them, and was touched by many people.
这些天里看见与听见的，让她“有时候都忘了自己是一个快五十的人”。
What she sees and hears these days makes her "sometimes forget that she is almost fifty."
2月11日19:00，医护接送高峰期过去后，何明荣才有时间和南方周末聊聊。
February 11, 19: 00, after the rush hour, Ho Mingrong had time to chat with Southern Weekend.
她说，武汉经过这次疫情，人和人之间似乎贴近了很多。
Wuhan, she said, had experienced this outbreak and people seemed to be close to a lot.
如果没有意外，她会做到最后，疫情结束为止。
If there were no surprises, she would be the last, the end of the epidemic.
▲ 滴滴保障车队司机出车前接受安全培训（资料图/图）以下为何明荣的口述整理：1 有人送盒饭，充电站免费充我是负责接送医护的，我们没有换班，一顶就是一天，基本从早上7点开到晚上10点，跟医护人员的上下班时间一致，现在人手还相对欠缺。
The following is why the drivers of the convoy received safety training before they left home: 1. Someone sent boxed rice to the charging station free charge. I was responsible for the delivery of medical care. We did not change shifts.
1月22日，滴滴发起了招募志愿者的活动，当时我就报名了。
On January 22, Drop launched a campaign to recruit volunteers, and I signed up.
放假的时候孩子先走了，我本来打算晚一点再回去过节，结果碰上疫情大暴发。
The children left first during the holiday, and I had planned to go back later for the holiday, only to have an outbreak of the disease.
武汉是重灾区，谁都躲不了，我想我一个人在这，还不如站出来做点事，响应一下号召。
Wuhan is a disaster area, no one can escape, I think I alone here, rather than stand up to do something, respond to the call.
到大年三十(1月24日)，我们第一批50个人接到指令，接受了一些培训，发了护目镜、N95口罩、防护服、消毒液，防护都是向医护人员靠拢的。
By the end of the New Year (24 January), our first group of 50 people had received instructions, received some training, issued goggles, N95 masks, protective clothing, disinfectant, and were all close to the medical staff.
还有方便面和水。
And instant noodles and water.
大年三十集结完，初一开始运作，中途没有休息过。
New Year's 30 rally, the beginning of the operation, did not rest the way.
后来公司又增加了一批，党员又上了一批，我估计医护组应该有两百多人。
Then the company added a new batch, the party joined a new batch, I estimate that the medical team should be more than 200 people.
这些天，我一般早上五点多就要起床，吃好饭六点出门，因为我开新能源车，得去把电补足，大概半小时。
These days, I usually get up at five in the morning and go out at six, because I drive the new energy car, to make up the electricity, about half an hour.
之后做车内消毒，现在酒精很缺，我们都是用84(消毒液)，用完必须把车敞上10分钟。
And then we disinfect the car, and now there's a shortage of alcohol, and we all use 84 (disinfectant), so we have to take the car open for 10 minutes.
我再穿上防护服这些装备，准备好了6:30或者6:40就可以出发。
I'll put on my protective gear and I'm ready to go at 6: 30 or 6: 40.
医护7:00就开始上班了，早一点的也有6:50就往医院走的。
The doctor started work at 7: 00, and the earlier one went to the hospital at 6: 50.
刚开始，由于公司根据政府号召，系统关了，单子就是人工调配的。
At first, because the company according to the government call, the system closed, the list is a manual deployment.
比方说20个人负责协和医院，协和那边再出一个管理员，拉到我们群里。
For example, 20 people are in charge of Concorde Hospital, and there's another supervisor in Concorde who will pull us into the group.
用车需求反馈到管理员手上，他再在群里发单，谁近谁就报名去接。
The car demand is fed back to the supervisor, who then sends out the tickets in the group and whoever comes near signs up to pick them up.
这还是非常麻烦，每接一个人还要记录人家的姓名、联系方式。
This is still very troublesome, each person also needs to record the family name, the contact information.
然后公司赶紧做了一套系统，专门面向医护人员和我们这些保障医疗的车，和以前的系统差不多。
The company then hurriedly made a system specifically for health care workers and us who guarantee medical care, similar to the previous system.
还做了一些改进，以前3公里派单，现在车没这么多，可能9公里、10公里之外的，也会派过去。
Improvements have also been made to the previous 3-kilometer dispatching order, which now has not so many cars, perhaps 9 km, 10 km away, will also be sent.
对医护的接送都是免费的，对我们也有一些补贴。
Transportation to and from the hospital is free of charge, and there are some allowances for us.
今年的春节不能跟往年比，今年我们都已经面临这样的关头，大家现在都是不计报酬。
This year's Spring Festival can not be compared with previous years, this year we have all faced such a juncture, we are now all reckless.
这些天在我们这些小人物身上发生的故事，晚上下了班，有时我这么一回忆，就是热泪盈眶的。
The stories that have happened to us little people these days come off duty at night, and sometimes, as I recall, tears welled up in my eyes.
笼统一点的，现在中午没办法吃饭，都发方便面。
General, there is no way to eat lunch now, all instant noodles.
有一些普通人，了解到这个情况以后，就联系爱心企业，每天中午免费给我们提供300份盒饭，送到一个位置，到时间我们就过去领盒饭。
Some ordinary people, aware of this, contact Loving Enterprises and provide us with 300 boxes of rice free of charge every day at noon and take it to a place where we can get a box of rice by then.
还有一些充电站，听说我们是义务接送，也给免费充电。
There are also some charging stations that we hear are voluntary and charge free.
这次疫情让我觉得，每一个人都环环相扣，最前线医护人员直接和病人接触，我们又为医护人员服务，我们背后又有许多人在为我们服务。
The epidemic made me feel that everyone was connected, that the front-line medical staff were in direct contact with the patients, that we were serving the health care workers, and that there were many people behind us.
每一环都有让我感动的人和事。
Every link has people and things that move me.
我们这些车，贴有医护服务标志，现在城里每个地方都设有卡点、量体温的，路过卡点的时候，有些车就会主动刹一脚，让我们先走。
These cars, with medical service signs, are now located in every part of the city to take temperature, when passing the checkpoint, some cars will actively brake one foot, let us go first.
2上车第一句，都是感谢我们武汉经过这次疫情，人和人之间贴近了很多。
The first sentence of the car, is to thank us Wuhan after the outbreak, people and people close to a lot.
现在同济、协和的医生护士，一上车最多的话都是非常感谢我们。
Now Tongji, Concorde of doctors and nurses, once aboard the most words are very grateful to us.
然后第二句话，你们一定要防护好，希望我们都好好的。
And then the second sentence, you must be good security, hope we are all good.
在还没有外地支援的时候，那些年轻的护士，90后、95后的孩子，上一个夜班，下午五点进去，早晨八点下班，我感觉她们累得不行了。
When there was no field support, the young nurses, the children after 90 and 95, worked the night shift, went in at five in the afternoon and finished work at eight in the morning, and I felt exhausted.
之前防护服缺得要命，她们进隔离病房前一个小时就不喝水不吃饭，为了省一套防护服，还穿着纸尿裤。
They had been deprived of protective clothing for an hour before entering the isolation ward without drinking water and wearing diapers in order to save a suit.
你说听了心疼不心疼？后面全国各地的医疗队来了，孩子们才算是能正常一点。
Did you say heartache or heartache? After the national medical team came, the children can be regarded as normal.
为了避免交叉感染，我们一次只接一个。
To avoid cross-infection, we only take one at a time.
有时候我看到身体状况、心情都好一点的，就问，如果这场疫情过去，有没有咱们把这个工作辞了的想法。
Sometimes when I see people in better health and mood, I ask if we have any idea of quitting the job if the epidemic is over.
我接触了这么多孩子，没有一个说不干的。
I've been in contact with so many kids, and none of them said no.
有个女孩子上车就哭了。
A girl got on the bus and cried.
她是护士，家人都隔离在别的地方没回来，还是个孕早期的孕妇。
She was a nurse, her family was isolated from the rest of the country, and she was a pregnant woman in her early years.
她上完夜班，早上在家休息的时候，觉得肚子不舒服，打算到妇幼保健站去检查。
She finished the night shift, in the morning when the rest at home, feel upset stomach, planning to go to maternal and child health check-up.
在车上我劝了她，看她哭了一会，发泄了一下，然后到医院，我说，我找地方停车，我等着你，检查完了我再把你拉回去。
I talked to her in the car, watched her cry for a while, let out a little, then went to the hospital, and I said, I'll find a place to park, I'll wait for you, I'll check you out and pull you back.
她应该比我家老大还要小一点。
She should be a little younger than my eldest son.
我看她一个人，还是个孕妇，还上着班，确实很心疼。
I think she was alone, pregnant and on duty, and it really hurt.
你想他们在前线忙死忙活，如果不幸感染，可能连个名字都不会有。
You want them to be busy on the front lines, And if they get infected, they may not even have a name.
有时好像都不知道是为了什么。
Sometimes I don't seem to know why.
等她检查完了，高高兴兴地给我打电话，说没有什么事儿。
When she was through, she called me cheerfully and said it was all right.
到车上她问我，你下午还能不能送我去上班？我说你这样子，还去上班？工作不干算了——我看她心情好了，就开个玩笑。
She went to the car and asked me if you could take me to work this afternoon? I said you were going to work like this.
那怎么行，她说，现在不上班怎么行？后来，她还给我发了一条短信，说我给她带来了这半个月以来最大的温暖。
Well, she said, what's the point of not coming to work nowAnd then she sent me a note saying I'd brought her the warmest she'd been in half a month.
昨天还有一个护士，她接同事电话哭了。
There was also a nurse yesterday who answered her colleague's phone and cried.
同事确诊了，和婆婆两个人都隔离了，老公带着两岁的娃娃在家，老公也有症状了，要去隔离，就说这娃娃怎么办？哭得一塌糊涂。
Colleagues diagnosed, and mother-in-law are separated, husband with a two-year-old baby at home, husband also has symptoms, to go to quarantine, say how the doll do? Cry a mess.
这我都没办法出主意，我就说做两步打算，如果孩子也有，就跟爸爸一块隔离;孩子健康，就托给社区。
I can't even figure this out. I'm going to say two steps. If you have children, separate them from your father; if they're healthy, leave them to the community.
看这么多事，我心里也难过，但可能我这年龄在这儿，既然事实是这样，难受是不行的，一定得想办法解决。
I am sorry to see so much, but I may be here at my age, and since it is true that suffering is impossible, something must be done about it.
3“妈妈，武汉这么大，你行吗？”我以前在家里带孩子，是个全职太太，有两个儿子，大的已经成家，小儿子前年考大学，考到武汉来了，我就跟着过来。
"Mom, Wuhan so big, can you do?" I used to raise children at home, is a full-time wife, has two sons, the older has a family, the youngest son the year before the examination to Wuhan, I followed.
孩子一上大学，就周六周天回来，我就感觉好像时间太充裕了。
As soon as my child came back from college Saturday, I felt as if I had too much time.
像我这个年龄，退休还有点早，找工作又很尴尬。
At my age, it's a little early to retire, and it's embarrassing to find a job.
我想了想，驾照拿了有7年，在新疆就是天天接送孩子，我就出来开车了。
I think about it, driving license for seven years, in Xinjiang is to pick up the children every day, I came out to drive.
刚开始家里人都不支持。
At first none of the family members supported it.
我也没跟他们沟通，等通过公司考核才告诉他们。
I also did not communicate with them, until the company assessment to tell them.
儿子还说，妈妈，武汉这么大，你行吗？他们特别怀疑，因为我们家在新疆是个小县城，车也少路也宽。
The son also said, Mom, Wuhan is so big, you can? They are particularly suspicious, because our home in Xinjiang is a small county, the car is also wide.
做司机的女性少，对女司机的偏见也是有的，特别是碰到赶时间的乘客，有时候会很吃惊，怎么是个女的？我就说是没有男孩子那么利索？有婉约一点的，就笑一笑。
There are fewer women drivers, there are prejudices against female drivers, especially when the passengers are in a hurry, sometimes it is very surprised, how is it a woman? I said is not as agile as the boys? If there is a little more gentle, smile.
一开始可能有一点歧视，但后面就越来越好。
It may be a little discriminatory at first, but it's getting better and better.
到现在，我已经有六千多单了。
So far, I've got more than six thousand tickets.
和以前做家庭主妇相比，我感觉现在人生好像精彩一些，好像都忘了自己是个快五十的人。
Compared with being a housewife, I feel as if my life is better now, and I seem to forget that I am almost fifty years old.
如果做家庭主妇，就会想，哎呀这两道皱纹，那儿把斑祛祛。
If be housewife, can think, alas these two wrinkles, there dispels the spot dispels.
家庭主妇只是缺少了一些机会，如果给她一点机会，做别的事也可以很厉害。
The housewife is just missing some opportunities, if give her a chance to do something else can be very strong.
现在又当了志愿者，他们也担心。
Now they're volunteers again, and they're worried.
我说，武汉本来就是重灾区，咱们不能躲，没地方躲。
I said, Wuhan is the original disaster areas, we can not hide, there is no place to hide.
趁着我现在还健康，能给别人做一点事，就做点事，要真不幸染病了，还会有人来给我做饭。
Just do something while I'm still healthy enough to do something for someone else. If I'm unlucky enough to get sick, someone else will cook for me.
公司也买了意外险，每天也都有防护服，还配了救援车。
The company also bought accident insurance, every day there are also protective clothing, but also equipped with rescue vehicles.
我们要干的就是在岗位上，把车开好，自己多注意防护。
We should do is in the post, drive a good car, pay more attention to their own protection.
我觉得这件事对我们一家人影响都挺大的，我小儿子还跟我说，妈妈，我最后悔就是没有学医，觉得出不了什么力。
I think this matter has a great impact on our family, my little son also told me, mother, I regret that I did not study medicine, feel no force.
他们现在给我说得最多的话就是注意防护。
The most they say to me right now is to watch out for protection.
如果说不出现什么意外情况，我一定会把它做完。
If nothing unexpected happens, I will certainly finish it.
等到疫情过去，其他地方的朋友都能开开心心地到武汉来，看武大的樱花。
When the epidemic is over, friends from other places can happily come to Wuhan to see Wu Da cherry blossoms.
我想呢，等到孩子来了，我们能把口罩摘下来，放心地出去，喝一个贺胜桥的土鸡汤，到潜江去吃虾。
I think, when the baby comes, we can take off the mask, feel free to go out, drink a Heshengqiao soil chicken soup, to eat shrimp diving river.
我们能在武汉的大街上，开上车，漫无目的地溜一溜，看一看车流，看一看人。
We can drive in Wuhan's streets, aimlessly stroll around, take a look at the traffic, look at people.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当家庭主妇开起医护专车。
When a housewife drives a medical van.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "当家庭主妇开起医护专车";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when a housewife started RV & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“我接触了这么多孩子，没一个说不干了”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I've spoken to so many children, and not one has said no";;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
