民间组织疯狂捐赠，为什么武汉的医院还缺物资？。
Non-governmental organizations frantically donated, why Wuhan hospitals are still short of supplies?
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
「不是告急！是没有了！！」近两日，武汉协和医院、中南医院再次通过社交网络对外募集物资，对此，网友们纷纷发表质疑：全国各地都在往武汉捐医疗物资，物资到底去哪了？文|易方兴 郑丹编辑 |金石采购难没货，没货，没货「一开始觉得能募集到50万就差不多。
"Not in a hurry! No more!!" On the last two days, Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital and Zhongnan Hospital again solicited supplies via social networking sites. Netizens have questioned where supplies are donated to Wuhan.
」2020年1月23号上午10点，武汉封城，武汉市各大医院物资紧缺的消息也相继传出。
At 10: 00 a.m. on January 23, 2020, the city of Wuhan, Wuhan, major hospitals shortage of supplies also came out.
其中，武汉大学两家附属医院——人民医院和中南医院医疗向校友紧急求助，当晚9点多，武汉大学北京校友会先用垫付的方式买下了1000套防护服，随后开始募款——50万，这是武大临床医学2002级校友李大林心中的期望值。
Two hospitals attached to Wuhan University, People's Hospital and Zhongnan Hospital, rushed to alumni for help. At 9: 00 that evening, Wuhan University's Beijing Alumni Association bought 1,000 suits in advance and began to raise money -- 500,000, which is the expectation of Li Dailin, a 2002-grade alumnus of Wuhan University.
钱像潮水一样涌来。
Money poured in like the tide.
募款信息发出后，仅用了一个小时，50万的目标就已经达到，39个小时后，捐款达到了校友会的成员们谁都不敢想的数字——1600万。
In just one hour after the fund-raising message was sent out, the target of half a million was met, and 39 hours later, the donation reached the figure of 16 million that no alumni would dare to think of.
这期间，微信收款码失效，他们不得不换成了支付宝和银行卡。
During this time, the micromail billing code lapsed and they had to replace it with payables and bank cards.
捐款者来自全国各地，早已超过了武大校友的范围。
The donors come from all over the country and have already surpassed the alumni of WU.
一位名叫雅君的捐款者在文章下留言，「不是武大校友，但是在朋友圈看到这个捐助渠道，并选择信任，已捐款。
A donor named Yajun wrote in the article, "Not Wu alumni, but in the circle of friends to see this donation channel, and chose to trust, has contributed.
希望物资能顺利到武汉医护人员手上。
It is hoped that supplies will reach Wuhan medical staff smoothly.
」这让李大林非常感动，他加入了校友会采购组，负责医疗物资的采购——随后发生的事不断证实着一个结论：民间团体驰援疫区，筹款成了其中最容易的事。
"Li was very moved when he joined the Alumni Association's procurement team, which procures medical supplies - and events since then have consistently confirmed the conclusion that fund-raising is the easiest of these areas for civil society to reach.
武大抗击新型肺炎基金的微信捐款页面。
The micro-letter donation page of the Wu Da New Pneumonia Fund.
图源武汉大学北京校友会微信公号「我每天花16个小时找物资。
Tuyuan Wuhan University Beijing Alumni Association Weixin official "I spend 16 hours a day looking for supplies.
」1月28日，李大林对《人物》诉苦。
On January 28, Li Daolin complained to People.
包括他在内，武大校友会采购组一共七人，成员包括了医疗集团、一线医务人员、制药公司、疾控中心等医疗链条各环节的专业人士，但采购依然困难重重。
Including him, the alumni association has a total of seven members, including medical groups, front-line medical staff, pharmaceutical companies, CDC and other medical chain professionals, but procurement is still difficult.
这些天，他做得最多的事就是接电话和打电话，听到最多的话是「没货了」。
The most important thing he does these days is to answer the phone and make phone calls. The most he hears is "out of stock."
他们先是找到了一本医疗用品采购目录，上面列举了全国各个地方有资质的医疗物资生产厂家，每天挨个打电话，几天下来把全国所有的相关企业都打了一个遍。
They first found a catalogue of medical supplies, listing qualified medical manufacturers in various parts of the country, and made phone calls every day for a few days, covering all the relevant businesses in the country.
「目前国内的大工厂，绝大部分都在与政府对接，真正能给我们争取到的只有剩下的一成。
"At present, most of the big factories in China are docking with the government. The only thing we can really get is the remaining ten percent.
」有一次，李大林他们连钱都付了，结果货被征用，厂家又把钱退了。
"Once they paid for everything and the goods were requisitioned. The manufacturer returned the money.
还有一次，他给某个省的厂家打电话，对方委婉地说，他们厂刚刚捐给武汉一批医疗物资，现在也要给当地留一点。
On another occasion, he telephoned a factory in a province that, to put it mildly, had just donated medical supplies to Wuhan, and was now going to save some for the region.
他也理解，「整个中国都在抗疫，各地也要有所准备。
He also understood that "the whole of China is fighting the epidemic, and every place has to be prepared."
」武大深圳校友会也遇到了同样的情况，他们在短时间内筹集到近2000万捐款，但也难花出去。
"The same thing happened to the Shenzhen Alumni Association, which raised nearly 20 million donations in a short period of time, but it was also difficult to spend.
以防护服为例，据相关数据统计，湖北省内医院目前每天约消耗10万件防护服，但整个中国的防护服产能只有每天3万件。
Taking protective clothing as an example, according to statistics, hospitals in Hubei Province currently consume about 100,000 protective clothing units per day, but the total production capacity of protective clothing in China is only 30,000 units per day.
武大深圳校友会采购组的刘宇凌说，一开始，他拿到了全国所有防护服厂家的电话，并且做好了有多少买多少的打算，但现实是残酷的，他每天从早上打电话到凌晨2点，回应他的是不断的失望，「现在最不缺的就是钱。
'At first, he got a phone call from all the protective clothing manufacturers in the country and made plans to buy as much as he could, but the reality was brutal, 'said Liu Yu-lin, of the Wuhan Alumni Association of Wuhan University.
」与国内的民间机构相比，海外民间机构的采购难度似乎要小很多，毕竟，他们交出的答卷也「漂亮」很多——华中科技大学德国校友会在不到一周的时间内，采购到了2万5千件防护服，24万个医用级别口罩，外加4000个护目镜，但在这背后，是一个「差点下跪」的故事。
After all, the German Alumni Association of the Central University of Science and Technology bought 25,000 protective suits, 240,000 medical masks and 4,000 goggles in less than a week, but behind this story is a story of "almost kneeling."
大年三十当天，看到国内的疫情，华科德国校友会会长叶继文当即拍板，先不募捐，先去找货源是第一位的。
New Year's Day, to see the domestic epidemic, the president of the German Alumni Association of China Ye Jiwen immediately beat the board, first do not fund-raising, first to find sources of goods is the first.
他是易优集团创始人，这本身就是一家跨国物流公司，在德国颇有人脉。
He is the founder of the easy-to-do group, itself a multinational logistics company with strong connections in Germany.
他了解到当地医疗物资供货商Dach公司有一批货，马上自掏腰包20万欧元全部订下。
He learned that Dach, a local supplier of medical supplies, had a shipment and immediately made a full order out of his own pocket of 200,000 euros.
但Dach公司的CEO压下了这批货，原因是：「如果德国也爆发了怎么办？我们也要给德国医院留口罩。
But the CEO of Dach suppressed the shipment, saying: "What if Germany also erupts? We're going to have to put a mask on German hospitals."
」就在对方计划全部退款的时候，该校友会副会长徐涛开车赶到了工厂，徐涛是做采购谈判的，他跟德国人谈了一个多小时，对方一直不松口，情急之下，他拿出了武汉医院的视频，「把德国人看崩溃了」，徐涛告诉德国人，「如果武汉顶住了，德国就能顶得住！」最终，这笔交易也被这几段视频挽救。
Xu Tao, vice-president of the Alumni Association, drove to the factory just as the plan was being refunded. Xu Tao, the vice-president of the alumni association, drove to the factory to negotiate the purchase. After talking to the Germans for more than an hour, he pulled out a video from Wuhan Hospital.
事后，徐涛感慨，「干采购这么多年，头一回体会到了买东西差点下跪的感觉。
After the event, Xu Tao lamented, "dry procurement so many years, the first experience of shopping almost kneel.
」华科德国校友会向武汉协和医院定向捐赠的首批物资已清关。
The first batch of goods donated by the Wako German Alumni Association to Wuhan Hsiao Wo Hospital was cleared.
图源中国红十字基金会微博决策难防溢价，防被骗这些天，像武汉大学北京校友会这样的民间机构所能找到的医疗物资货源，大多都集中在一些经销商手中，这时，价格就成了最大的问题。
2007-3-1 00: 00 (Xinhua) -- China Red Cross Foundation micro-blogging decision-making difficult to prevent a premium, these days, Wuhan University, such as the Beijing Alumni Association can find supplies of medical supplies, most of which are concentrated in the hands of dealers, prices become the biggest problem.
李大林接触的最离谱的一个经销商，把此前市场价6块左右的N95口罩，卖到了70块钱一个，翻了十倍多，而李大林最多能接受的也就是20块钱以内。
One of Li's most outrageous dealers, who sold his previously priced N95 mask for about $6 a year, has more than doubled by a factor of 70, while Li can accept less than $20.
他试图跟对方打情感牌，但基本没用，「他们都是个人经营，不会管你是不是援助前线的医院，比如说他有10万口罩在手上，他这卖贵一点，一下能多赚多少钱？反正，你不要有的是人要。
He tried to play emotional cards with each other, but they were basically useless. "They're all personal and don't care if you're a frontline hospital, like he has 100,000 masks on his hands.
」「我们的钱都是捐赠的，购买的价格必须对得起大众的检验。
"" All our money is donated, and the prices we buy must meet the public scrutiny.
」李大林思量再三，还是决定放弃了那批溢价过多的口罩。
After much thought, Li decided to give up the overpriced masks.
后来，在与其他成员商量后，武大北京校友会决定，医疗物资的采购价顶多是平时的两倍，特殊的比较紧缺的可以三倍。
Later, after discussion with other members, the WU Beijing Alumni Association decided that the purchase price of medical supplies should be at most twice the usual price, and that the special ones could be tripled.
比如一次性医用口罩，以前接近一块钱一个，李大林看到一个货源，2万个，2块5一个，「我还是觉得有点贵，就没买。
For example, disposable medical masks, formerly close to a dollar a, Li Dalin saw a source, 20, 000, 2, 1, "I still feel a bit expensive, did not buy.
」花钱实在是太难了。
"Money is so hard.
李大林每天都淹没在信息的海洋中。
Li Daolin is submerged in the ocean of information every day.
「打电话过去，这些供货信息里，百分之八十以上都是民用的物资，医院不要；然后剩下百分之十几是合格的医用物资，但是要价太高，也不能买；剩下只有不到百分之五可以考虑，但在审核查询企业资质、或者沟通洽谈的过程中，货就被抢完了。
"In the past, more than 80 percent of the supply information was for civilian use and hospitals didn't want it. Then there were about 10 percent of qualified medical supplies, but it was too high to buy, and less than 5 percent could be considered.
」而在这种「抢购」风潮中，采购信息的筛选也成了很多民间机构采购人员面临的重要问题。
In this rush, the selection of procurement information has also become an important issue for many private sector procurement staff.
以一个500人的「医护资源互助」微信群为例，每天会发布2000条以上的信息，其中需要筛选的供货方的信息就超过200条。
For example, a 500-person "Healthcare Resources Mutual Aid" micro-group publishes more than 2,000 messages a day, of which more than 200 are from suppliers that need to be screened.
像这样的群，每个负责采购的人都要加十个以上。
In a group like this, there are more than ten people in charge of purchasing.
壹心娱乐是一家艺人经纪公司。
One Heart Entertainment is an entertainer agency.
按照以前的模式，艺人们捐了钱，发一个消息，就差不多了。
According to the old model, the entertainers donated money and sent a message, and that's about it.
但这次不一样，疫区缺的是物资，所以钱只有变成物资才有意义，因此，这家公司募款后也开始找渠道采购医疗物资，希望点对点对医院进行援助。
But unlike this time, the epidemic area is short of supplies, so money only makes sense if it is turned into supplies, so the company is also looking for ways to purchase medical supplies, hoping for point-to-point assistance to hospitals.
目前，市面上的N95医用口罩已经涨到了均价16块钱一个，而壹心娱乐的采购人员张雪在一堆信息中看到了一个8.5元的报价，于是迅速联络对方。
Now that N95 medical masks are on the market at an average price of 16 yuan a year, Zhang Xue, an entertaining buyer, quickly contacted her after seeing an 8.5 yuan offer amid a pile of information.
接电话的是一个年轻女孩，很快拉了张雪进群。
Answering the phone was a young girl who quickly pulled snow into the crowd.
那个女孩在群里提供了口罩视频，说是朋友开的厂子，每天都会催促大家「快买」，抢购心切的买家纷纷出手，张雪也下了一笔一万只口罩的订单，价值8万5千元。
The girl provided a video of the mask in the group, saying it was a factory owned by a friend, urging everyone to "buy quickly" every day. Buyers snapped up their wares and Zhang Xue placed an order for 10,000 masks, worth $85, 000.
只是，款付了，对方给的订单号是个三无订单，既查不到寄送地址，也查不到任何物流信息。
Only, the payment, the other party to the order number is a three-no-order, neither find the address, nor find any logistics information.
张雪急了，截图、录音、打电话告诉对方要走法律程序，最终，对方答应「再等两天，如果货还没到就退款」。
Zhang rushed, screenshots, recordings, phone calls to tell the other party to go through legal procedures, and finally, the other side promised "two days, if the goods do not arrive refund.
买家谨防卖家，而卖家也同样在提防买家。
Buyers beware of sellers, and sellers are equally wary of buyers.
张雪遇到过一个疑心特别重的厂家。
Zhang Xue met a particularly suspicious factory.
这个厂家在山东，专门生产医用的免洗消毒液，对方的问题很尖锐：「你们是谁？你们买到底出于什么目的？你们要怎么证明你们是捐给医院的？」在这样的时期，厂家也会接到大量的电话，其中也不乏一些想以低价收购物资囤货、然后高价卖出牟利的商家，因此，厂家也很警觉。
This factory in Shandong, specializing in the production of medical disinfectant, the other side of the problem is very acute: "Who are you? What exactly do you buy for what? How do you prove that you donate to the hospital?"
除了发给对方营业执照等证明材料之外，张雪想出一个办法，把对方拉到自己所在的不同的医院对接群里，「对方可以自己判断。
In addition to issuing business licenses and other supporting documents, Zhang thought of a way to pull each other to his own hospital docking group, "the other side can judge for themselves.
而且收货地点直接写医院，过程我们都不参与。
And the place of delivery is written directly to the hospital, and we're not involved in the process.
」花了整整一天的时间，她终于得到了厂家的信任——275箱医用免洗消毒液的订单最终达成。
"It took her a whole day to win the trust of the manufacturers - 275 cases of medical disinfectant were finally ordered.
李大林还在艰难地花钱，根据最新的公告，截至1月29日下午6点，武大北京校友会一共买到了约700个N95口罩、2500套防护服、约3600个护目镜、200台医用空气消毒机，以及数以万计的一次性手术隔离衣、医用外科手套、消毒液等物资，共花费538万元，还不到捐款总额的三分之一。
Li is also struggling to spend money, with the Beijing Alumni Association buying about 700 N95 masks, 2,500 suits of protective clothing, about 3,600 goggles, 200 medical air sterilizers and tens of thousands of disposable surgical jackets, medical surgical gloves and disinfectant at a cost of 5.38 million yuan, less than one-third of the total, according to a new announcement.
而与此同时，物资采购的价格也越来越高，例如，1月24日时，防护服的价格为140元一件，到了1月27日，防护服的价格已经涨到了262元一件。
At the same time, the price of goods is increasing. For example, on 24 January, the price of protective clothing was 140 yuan a piece. By 27 January, the price of protective clothing had risen to 262 yuan.
为了让捐赠人们放心，武汉大学北京校友会将采购的防护物资在公号上展示。
In order to reassure donors, the Wuhan University Beijing Alumni Association will purchase protective materials on display on the official.
图源武汉大学北京校友会微信公号物流难道路不畅，送货有去无回买到275箱医用免洗消毒液的时候，张雪觉得终于松了一口气，但很快，她发现了更大的麻烦，这些消毒液只能以每天20到60箱的数量发往湖北的众多医院——物流问题几乎已经成了制约物资运往前线的「最后一公里」。
When Zhang Xue was finally relieved that 275 boxes of medical disinfectant were delivered without return, Zhang Xue felt relieved that the disinfectant could be sent to many hospitals in Hubei Province in quantities of 20 to 60 cases a day.
目前，大型物流公司例如顺丰、德邦、京东物流已加入政府官方组织的公益运输之中。
At present, large logistics companies such as Shunfeng, De Pont and Jingdong Logistics have joined the public transport of government official organizations.
根据京东物流对外的公告称，日均运输20吨的物资送达武汉。
According to the announcement of Jingdong Logistics, an average of 20 tons of goods per day arrived in Wuhan.
但这些大型物流公司不一定顾得上民间捐助，顺丰也曾发公告表示：「非常时期，为提升运输效率，保障一线特殊需求，目前暂无法为个人捐赠物资提供公益物流运输支持。
However, these large logistics companies do not necessarily pay close attention to private donations. Shun Fung has also issued a notice saying: "In order to enhance the efficiency of transport and protect the first-line special needs, it is not possible to provide public logistics support for individual donations at this time.
」因此，民间机构募集的医疗物资的运输更多的还是需要自己想办法，但各地隔离的举措给物流的运输带来了困难。
As a result, the transport of medical supplies collected by private institutions still has to be done on its own, but local isolation has made it difficult to transport logistics.
武大北京校友会在24日采购到的第一批医疗物资，是口罩和一次性手术隔离衣。
Wu Da Beijing Alumni Association on the 24th of the first procurement of medical supplies, masks and disposable surgical isolation clothing.
「买到了我们都很高兴，但没想到找不到愿意进武汉的货车司机，因为武汉只能进不能出。
"We are all happy to buy, but did not expect to find a truck driver willing to enter Wuhan, because Wuhan can only go out.
」按照防疫隔离的要求，外地车辆进入武汉，司机要隔离14天。
According to quarantine requirements, foreign vehicles entering Wuhan, the driver to be isolated for 14 days.
「哪怕是加一千块钱运费，也没有人愿意拉。
"No one wants to pull even a thousand bucks.
无奈，供货商只能将货运到湖北天门市，我们再想办法送到武汉去。
Helpless, the supplier can only deliver goods to Hubei Tianmen City, we think of ways to send to Wuhan.
」行业里把给武汉运物资形容为「有去无回」。
The trade describes the shipment of goods to Wuhan as "no return."
据《AI财经社》报道，一家电商企业的高管透露，现在最困难和最混乱的是，支援武汉的物流到达武汉后都不让离开。
The most difficult and confusing thing is that Wuhan-backed logistics will not be allowed to leave once it arrives in Wuhan, according to an executive at an electronics company, according to AI Financial.
「再这样下去，大车都快折腾没了。
"If it goes on like this, the cart will be a wreck.
」不光如此，即便是运到武汉且成功出来了，回到出发地之后还会被要求隔离14天。
"Moreover, even if transported to Wuhan and successfully completed, they would be required to remain in isolation for 14 days after returning to their original location.
「几家头部快递公司都遇到这种问题，本来春节期间到岗的员工就不多，现在战士们越来越少。
"Several head delivery companies are experiencing this problem. There were not many employees coming to work during the Spring Festival, and there are fewer and fewer fighters now.
」货运员在搬运防护物资。
The freight man is carrying the protective goods.
图源AI财经社微信公号与此同时，其他地区对湖北牌照车辆的警惕也令整个运输变得越来越难。
At the same time, vigilance over Hubei licensed vehicles in other parts of the world has made it increasingly difficult to transport.
52岁的湖北襄阳人赵军，刚刚经历了一次从河南长垣拉医疗物资回襄阳的经历，堪比谍战片。
Zhao Jun, a 52-year-old Hubei Xiangyang, has just gone through an ultimatum war movie from Changyuan, Henan Province, back to Xiangyang.
1月28日，他临时得到生产厂家的消息，他此前订购的、准备捐给医院的4万多个口罩、200套防护服、200副护目镜没法发物流了，需要他们自己来取。
On 28 January, he temporarily received information from the manufacturer that more than 40,000 masks, 200 suits and 200 goggles, which he had ordered for donation to the hospital, could not be delivered and needed to be collected by themselves.
「长垣是中国的医疗耗材之都，很多地方开救护车去找货，有的是副市长去都拿不到货，还好我们打招呼比较早。
"Changyuan is China's medical supplies capital, many places to drive ambulance to find goods, some deputy mayor can not get goods, but we say hello earlier.
」赵军说，即便如此，情况也已经相当紧急。
"Even so, the situation is quite urgent," Zhao said.
为了守住这批货，他们的供应商一直守在厂里没敢动，晚上还在车里睡觉。
To hold on to the shipment, their supplier stayed inside the factory and slept in the car at night.
再不去拿，货就没了。
If you don't get it, the goods will be gone.
出发之前，他花了一整天的时间办《紧急防疫保障物资运输通行证明》，找襄阳应急指挥部、疾控中心、公安局、医院挨个盖了章，然后把证明像宝贝一样放到羽绒服最里层。
Before setting out, he spent the whole day organizing the Certificate of Passage of Emergency epidemic prevention supplies, looking for Xiangyang Emergency Command, CDC, Public Security Bureau and Hospital to seal one by one, and then put the certificate in the innermost layer of his down jacket like a treasure.
一位将物资运往武汉的货车司机得到的特别通行证。
A special pass was given to a lorry driver who transported supplies to Wuhan.
图源界面新闻从襄阳到长垣，停了三次高速服务区，赵军本想吃碗面，但对方一看是湖北牌照，面都不让吃，就撵人了，「都说赶紧走不走就报警了。
Graph source interface news from Xiangyang to Changyuan, stopped three high-speed service areas, Zhao Jun would like to eat noodles, but the other side is a Hubei license plate, face refused to eat, put people, "said hurry to walk away on the police.
」到了长垣下高速，赵军一看当地已经封闭了，凡是外地车，没有正当证明，全要给拦回去，甚至有个当地牌照的车，但车主是贵州身份证，说回来看亲戚也被拦了。
On reaching the Changyuan expressway, Zhao Jun saw that the local area had been closed, and that all cars without proper certification would be stopped, even one with local license plates, but the owner of the car was a Guizhou identity card.
他赶紧把证明掏出来，递给警察，还不停地说好话，说「我们离武汉300多公里，是唯一没有封城的城市。
Quickly he pulled out the certificate and handed it to the police, saying, "We are more than 300 kilometers away from Wuhan, is the only city that has not been closed.
」警察还是在犹豫，看得出很不情愿。
"The policeman hesitated, apparently reluctantly.
这是赵军这辈子「除了媳妇生娃之外感受到的最长的几分钟」，冷汗都从背上下来了。
This is Zhao Jun's life "except daughter-in-law to feel the longest minutes of the baby", the cold sweat from the back down.
好不容易终于放行了，还不敢进厂子取。
I finally let it go and dared not go into the factory to pick it up.
因为当地对湖北牌照很敏感，只能约在一个偏僻无人的地方把货装了，「装货的时候我感觉厂里的人比我们还紧张，装了就跑，数目也没点，手都没握。
Because of the local sensitivity of Hubei license plates, the goods had to be packed in a remote and uninhabited place. "At the time of loading, I felt the people in the factory were even more nervous than we were.
」为了解决湖北物流运力紧张的状况，武汉物流协会组织了一个「防疫志愿货车群」，三百多名跑湖北运输的货车司机自愿报名，加入进来，但这仍然是杯水车薪，再加上疫情的蔓延，不仅运输需求远远大于供给，运输效率也比往常低了很多。
In order to solve the problem of the shortage of logistics capacity in Hubei Province, the Wuhan Logistics Association organized a "voluntary epidemic prevention truck group" in which more than 300 truck drivers from Hubei Province volunteered to join the group.
武汉本地的货车司机梁勇已经连续五天参与志愿运输了。
Wuhan local truck driver Liang Yong has been involved in voluntary transport for five consecutive days.
他的车不大，是一辆红色的7米8厢式货车，能装10吨，是武汉牌照，进出武汉不用隔离，瞬间成了宝贵的运力，各种物流的活都来找他。
His car is not big, is a red 7 meters 8 van, can hold 10 tons, is Wuhan license plate, in and out of Wuhan without isolation, instant has become a valuable capacity, all kinds of logistics work to find him.
1月28日，梁勇帮一个民间机构运送了一批护目镜，以及消毒水，目的地是武汉周边的另一个重灾区——黄冈市人民医院。
On January 28, Liang helped a civilian agency deliver goggles and disinfect water to the Huanggang People's Hospital, another major disaster area around Wuhan.
平时武汉到黄冈，一个多小时可能就到了，但现在要3个小时，因为疾控中心的关卡很多，每过一个关卡，就要进行车身消毒，还要给他测体温。
Usually Wuhan to Huanggang, more than an hour may have arrived, but now it takes three hours, because of the CDC's many checkpoints, each passing a barrier, to disinfect the body, and to take his temperature.
湖北此前的阴雨天气也加大了运输的难度。
The rainy weather before Hubei also increased the difficulty of transportation.
货车司机曾翔宇在运物资走国道的时候，车子陷入泥潭，一天都没出来。
Truck driver Zeng Xiangyu was carrying supplies through the national road when the car sank into a quagmire, a day did not come out.
此外，湖北境内很多村与村的道路「好多都挖断了」，运输更是难上加难。
In addition, many villages and villages in Hubei "a lot of cut off" roads, transport is even more difficult.
有的运货司机口罩都来不及换，一个口罩要戴两三天。
Some freight drivers have too little time to change their masks, and one takes two or three days to wear.
图源新京报视频截图医院难民间物资能救急，但数量奇缺通过社交网络直接募集医疗物资——对于绝大多数的公立医院而言，这是从未有过的做法。
The Beijing News video screenshot hospital in Gu Yuan can save emergency supplies, but there is an acute shortage of medical supplies raised directly through social networks - an unprecedented practice for most public hospitals.
武汉某三甲医院一位不愿透露姓名的医生说，通常的做法是，各个科室向采购部门提需求，汇总之后再找指挥部申请。
A doctor at a Wuhan Sanjia hospital, who declined to be named, said it was common practice for sections to make requests to the procurement department and gather them before seeking a command request.
「但现在来不及了，民间点对点的捐助，比走这个流程快多了。
"But it's too late, and the private point-to-point donation is much faster than this process.
」通常，医院会在募集公告上直接公布收集物资的医生电话，民间机构看到后，会将不同医院的医生拉进各自的捐赠群，进行物资的分配，医院在收到捐助后，医生们会拍下照片发到对接群里，一一确认。
Normally, the hospital will announce the telephone number of the doctor collecting the goods directly on the call notice. When the private organizations see the telephone, they will draw doctors from different hospitals into their respective donation groups for distribution of materials.
武大互联网AI分会的副秘书长吴杨把这称之为「去中心化」。
Wu Yang, deputy secretary-general of WU's Internet AI branch, calls this "deconcentration."
这种模式会大大提高捐赠的沟通效率，但是，捐赠效率一开始却并不高。
This model will greatly improve the efficiency of donor communication, but the efficiency of the donation is not high at the beginning.
王良是武汉某医院负责接收物资的医生，为了找物资，他加了七八个对接医院的群，每天都在群里对接各种信息，他所在的医院也陆续收到了不少来自民间机构的医疗物资，但符合临床医疗标准的物资只有两成。
To find supplies, Wang Liang, a doctor in charge of receiving supplies at a Wuhan hospital, added seven or eight docking groups to the hospital, docked various messages every day, and his hospital continued to receive many medical supplies from non-governmental organizations, but only 20 percent met clinical standards.
「27号接到电话，说有快递让我下去，我很激动，喊了两个同事下去搬，结果是一批黑色的没有写明标准的口罩，四箱，这个我们都不敢用；28号上午又收到了，捐过来的虽然是N95口罩，两箱，但是很可惜带了呼吸阀，我们转给后方的医生用了。
"I got a call on the 27th saying there was a courier let me down. I was so excited that I called two colleagues down to move. It turned out to be a bunch of black, unmarked masks, four boxes, which we didn't dare to use.
这时候我们自己科室只剩40个n95口罩了，很紧急，结果下午我又收到快递，打开一看是洗手液，这个我们也用得上，但是不是最急缺的。
By this time, we had only 40 n95 masks left in our own department. It was urgent. As a result, I received a courier service this afternoon and opened it.
」医疗物资是特殊商品，武大深圳校友会的采购人员刘宇凌说，国内的医用口罩分为医用防护口罩（N95）、医用外科口罩、以及一次性医用口罩三种。
"Medical supplies are special commodities," said Liu Yu-ling, a procurement officer with the Shenzhen Alumni Association of Wu University. "Medical masks are classified as medical masks (N95), medical surgical masks and disposable medical masks.
各种之间执行不同的标准，价格差距大，使用范围也各不相同。
Different standards are applied across different sectors, with large price differentials and varying degrees of use.
其中，一线医护人员需要的是符合GB19083-2010的医用防护口罩——如武大、华科校友会这样的机构，由于采购人员都是从事医疗行业的校友，因此比普通民间机构把关更严，采购的医疗物资也合格率更高。
First-line health care workers need medical masks that meet the requirements of GB 19083-2010 - institutions such as WU and the Alumni Association, which, because their procurement staff are alumni of the medical profession, are more tightly controlled than the general civilian sector and purchase higher quality medical supplies.
为了解决捐赠质量的问题，王良此后会要求民间机构采购物资时拍照，「如果他们找到货源了，会第一时间把照片发在群里，问我们这种能不能用，如果我们看了确实能用，他们就会安排直接往医院发货，但是物流什么都是他们想办法，说实话也很感谢他们。
To solve the problem of donation quality, Wang will ask civil organizations to take photos when purchasing goods. "If they find the source, they will send the photos to the group first and ask if they can use it.
」《人物》联系了二十多家前线医院的物资采购人员，对方均表示民间捐助的物资对他们起了很大帮助。
People contacted more than two dozen front-line hospital procurement staff, all of whom said the supplies donated by non-governmental organizations had helped them a lot.
在防护物资充足的情况下，医护人员每人每天需使用三件防护服才能有效保护自己。
In the case of adequate protective material, the medical personnel need to use three protective clothing per person per day to effectively protect themselves.
图源视频截图「我觉得民间力量给我们提供最大的帮助在于，在官方渠道申请的物资还没下来的这几天里，民间提供的医疗物资救了急。
Source video clip "I think the greatest help to us from the civilian forces is that in the days before the official application came down, the civilian medical supplies saved the emergency.
」 武汉市另一家医院的采购科科长告诉《人物》，「自从疫情爆发到现在，就没从红十字会得到一点东西，相比之下，民间捐助倒是不断有过来的。
The head of the procurement section at another Wuhan hospital told People: "Since the outbreak, there has been little from the Red Cross, compared to the steady flow of private donations.
」据他介绍，1月27日，他所在的医院仅剩300多个N95口罩，只能够勉强用一天，但「当天还好收到了一批民间捐助，从美国捐来的，500个美国标准的N95口罩，把我们高兴坏了，又能坚持一天多了。
On January 27, he said, his hospital had more than 300 N95 masks left -- barely enough to last a day -- but "we had a good day of private donations, and 500 American-standard N95 masks donated from the United States delighted us and lasted for more than a day.
」这也是目前民间机构捐赠能发挥的最大作用——能救急，只是，偶尔的救急并不能解决武汉及周边的各个医院医疗物资短缺的问题，自1月23日武汉封城、疫情加剧以来，民间机构的捐助相当踊跃，但是采购难、物流难等问题使得募集到的物资相比医院巨大的缺口，仍然是杯水车薪。
This is the biggest contribution that can be made by donations from non-governmental organizations at present - emergency relief, although occasional relief cannot solve the problem of shortage of medical supplies in Wuhan and surrounding hospitals. Since the closure of Wuhan on January 23 and the intensification of the epidemic, donations from private organizations have been quite enthusiastic.
武汉一家三甲医院的医生说，他们医院里，病人装了两栋楼，两栋楼一共上千个医务人员，每天都要消耗掉1000个N95口罩、1000件防护服、1000副护目镜。
Doctors at a three-A hospital in Wuhan say patients in the hospital have installed two buildings with thousands of staff consuming 1,000 N95 masks, 1,000 suits and 1,000 pairs of goggles a day.
而这还是在医务人员每天省着用的前提下做的统计。
And that's the same statistic that medical workers do on a daily basis.
这还只是一家医院，按照武汉市「7+7」的模式，一共有14家医院投入到抗疫前线中，每天光定点医院消耗的防护口罩、防护服、护目镜就数以万计。
This is just a hospital, according to Wuhan "7 + 7" model, a total of 14 hospitals into the frontline of the epidemic, every day light point hospitals consume tens of thousands of face masks, protective clothing, goggles.
1月30日及31日两天，武汉协和医院和中南医院再次通过社交网络发布募集信息，两家医院的公告都使用了大量的感叹号，且都言辞紧迫：「不是告急！是没有了！！」甚至还表示，「只要你弄到了符合标准的医用物资，邮费可以到付！！」对此，武大北京校友会采购人李大林相当无奈，「我们尽全力找物资，结果现在对口医院医疗物资还是缺。
On Jan. 30 and Jan. 31, Wuhan Concorde Hospital and Zhongnan Hospital again issued a collection of information via social networks. The announcements of both hospitals used a lot of exclamation marks and were urgent: "Not urgent! No!!!"
」不过也有好消息，华中科技大学德国校友会与北京校友会联合捐赠的第一批临床医护物资，连同德国同济校友会委托华科德国校友会捐赠的医护物资已经运抵武汉，总数超过40万只的口罩、2.5万套防护服以及4000个防护面罩正在按照登记的先后顺序分批发往武汉及其周边的医院，而同等数量的后续物资也已于北京时间1月31日开始陆续登机前往武汉。
But the good news is that the first batch of clinical materials donated by the German Alumni Association of the Central University of Science and Technology and the Beijing Alumni Association, together with medical supplies donated by the Alumni Association of Germany, have arrived in Wuhan.
只是，这样的成功已经不好再复制了，因为，「德国已经有确诊患者，我们预定的后续物资，德企已经留用为德国预备了。
However, this success is no longer easy to replicate, because, "Germany already has confirmed patients, we have ordered follow-up supplies, German enterprises have been retained for Germany.
」华科德国校友会会长何烁说。
"said Ho Shuo, president of the Wako German Alumni Association.
（应采访对象要求，赵军、张雪、王良均为化名）。
(At the request of the interviewee, Zhao Jun, Zhang Xue, Wang Liang are aliases).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
民间组织疯狂捐赠，为什么武汉的医院还缺物资？。
Non-governmental organizations frantically donated, why Wuhan hospitals are still short of supplies?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "民间组织疯狂捐赠，为什么武汉的医院还缺物资？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "「现在，最不缺的就是钱。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "At the moment, the last thing I need is money.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
