苏州市医疗队、丰县医疗队……“散装江苏”究竟是怎么来的？。
Suzhou medical team, Fengxian medical team...... "Bulk Jiangsu" how come after all?
陈星萌等。
Meng Chen et al.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
散是十三星，聚是苏大强。
Scattered is 13 stars, is the Soviet Union.
8000万江苏人，是“苏大强”最坚实的后盾。
Jiangsu 80 million people, is the "Soviet Union" the most solid backing.
文 | 陈星萌 陈嘉玲 田蔚琪  编辑 | 沈小山2月7日，国家部署“一省包一市”支援湖北疫情工作，网传江苏对口支援除了武汉以后疫情最严重的孝感，随后“散装江苏”的话题也登上了热搜。
Chen Xingmin Chen Jialing Tian Wei Qi, editor and vice versa. On February 7, the state deployed "one province, one city" to support the Hubei epidemic. Jiangsu's online counterpart provided support for the worst sense of filial piety since Wuhan, and the topic of "bulk Jiangsu" was also ferreted.
其他省：江西省对口支援随州市医疗队、浙江省援湖北荆门医疗队……江苏省：苏州市支援武汉同济医院医疗队、启东市人民医院驰援湖北医疗队、丰县人民医院驰援湖北医疗队……但是就是没有江苏医疗队。
Other provinces: Jiangxi Province counterpart support Suizhou Medical Team, Zhejiang Province Hubei Jingmen Medical Team... Jiangsu Province: Suzhou supported Wuhan Tongji Hospital Medical Team, Qidong People's Hospital rushed to Hubei Medical Team, Fengxian People's Hospital to assist Hubei Medical Team... but there was no Jiangsu Medical Team.
一时间，“内部battle”、“江苏十三太保争相驰援孝感”等话题也被网友们捧上了热搜。
For a while, "internal Battle," "Jiangsu 13 Bao rushed to help filial piety" and other topics were praised by netizens hot search.
就连江苏各地医疗队从哪个机场出发，都成了“散装江苏”的佐证。
Even the departure of medical teams from different parts of Jiangsu from which airport, has become "loose Jiangsu" evidence.
不过要澄清的一点是，虽然江苏各地都派出了医疗队，但其实他们并非各自出发。
It should be made clear, however, that although medical teams were sent from all over Jiangsu, they did not depart individually.
据央广网报道，2月9日下午，第五批江苏援湖北医疗队958人分别在南京禄口机场、无锡硕放机场集结，启程出征湖北。
On the afternoon of February 9, 958 members of the fifth contingent of rescue medical teams from Hubei Province of Jiangsu gathered at Nanjing Lokou Airport and Wuxi Master Fang Airport respectively, leaving for Hubei province, CCBA reported.
至此，江苏省已派出1438名医务工作者奔赴湖北参与疫情防控工作。
So far, Jiangsu Province has sent 1,438 medical workers to Hubei Province to participate in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
2月10日，国家卫健委公布官方配对名单，江苏对口支援黄石，而非此前网传的孝感。
February 10, the National Fitness Commission announced the official match list, Jiangsu counterpart to support Yellowstone, rather than the previous network filial piety.
然而“散装江苏”这个说法已经深入人心，并被广大网友认可。
However, "bulk Jiangsu" has been deeply popular, and has been recognized by the majority of netizens.
其实，“散装江苏”调侃的背后，更多的是责任与团结。
In fact, "bulk Jiangsu" ridicule behind, more is the responsibility and unity.
以前有多“散装”，现在就有多团结。
How much "bulk" there used to be, how much unity there is now.
正是“江苏十三太保”的合体，才有了如今的“苏大强”。
It is the combination of "Jiangsu Thirteen Taibao" that has today's "Soviet Union."
“苏大强”到底有多强？火神山和雷神山医院也可以告诉你。
"Su Da Qiang" how strong after all? Fire god mountain and thunder Shenshan hospital also can tell you.
（火神山和雷神山参与建设的部分江苏企业名单，图源微博网友瘦阿梨）除了这些基建企业，还有很多江苏企业纷纷提供了资金援助。
Apart from these infrastructure enterprises, many Jiangsu enterprises have also provided financial aid. (The names of some enterprises in Jiangsu Province that participated in the construction of Flamingo Mountain and Lei Shenshan Mountain are listed.
根据江苏省工商联数据，截至2月4日，《支援武汉抗疫参与2个医院建设的江苏民营企业》名单上的企业数已经接近三位数，江苏500多家民企累计捐赠达7.6亿元。
As of February 4, the number of enterprises on the list of Jiangsu Private Enterprises Supporting Wuhan Anti-epidemic Participation in the Construction of Two Hospitals had reached nearly three figures, with more than 500 private enterprises in Jiangsu totaling 760 million yuan.
“散是十三星，聚是苏大强”，8000万江苏人，是苏大强最坚实的后盾。
"Sanzhang is 13 stars, is the Soviet Union", 80 million Jiangsu people, is the strongest Soviet Union's most solid backing.
这样看来，江苏省其实很是团结，那么它“内斗大省”的名号是怎么来的呢？这背后，到底有什么解不开的结呢？历史渊源久，分分又合合一直以来江苏都被调侃为「大内斗省」、「宇宙苏」，而这样的称号其实也颇有历史渊源。
In fact, Jiangsu Province is very united, so how did it get its name from the "Big Dipper Province"? It has a long history and has long been ridiculed by Jiangsu Province as "Dinner Dou Province" and "Universe Su," which also has a long history.
这其中还有个著名的段子，说江苏内斗要从2000多年前，一个淮安人韩信帮助一个徐州人刘邦，打败了一个宿迁人项羽，导致另一个宿迁人虞姬殉情的故事说起。
There is a famous passage that says that since 2000 years ago, Han Xin, a Huaian, helped a Xuzhou man named Liu Bang and defeated a Suqian Xiang Yu.
在江苏省这块面积不到十一万的大地上，却汇聚着楚汉中原文化、吴文化、江淮文化、金陵文化等。
Jiangsu Province in this area of less than 110,000 land, but the Chu Han Central Plains culture, Wu culture, Jianghuai culture, Jinling culture and so on.
由于南北跨度大，江苏可按照地理位置划分为黄淮、江淮和江南三个部分。
Because of the large span between north and south, Jiangsu can be divided into Huanghuai, Jianghuai and Jiangnan.
在历史上，这三个地区长期分属于不同的行政单位，乃至不同的政权，再加之自然条件的差异，久而久之，自然形成了不同的文化、语言、习俗。
Historically, these three regions have been divided into different administrative units and even different political regimes over a long period of time, which, together with differences in natural conditions, has naturally resulted in the formation of different cultures, languages and customs.
苏南和苏北两个行政公署在我国历史上是唯一以“苏南”、“苏北”命名的权威行政区划单位，这也是现代人对于“苏南”和“苏北”概念的源头和最早的认知。
In the history of China, the two administrative offices are the only authoritative administrative divisions named after "Su Nan" and "Subei," which is also the origin and earliest cognition of the concepts of "Su Nan" and "Subei" by modern people.
在数百年的分裂史上，扬州崛起，成为了南朝统治的核心地带。
In the centuries-old history of division, Yangzhou rose to become the core of the Southern Dynasty rule.
大运河的修建带动了扬州城的兴盛。
The construction of the Grand Canal led to the prosperity of Yangzhou.
扬州一度成为最富庶之地。
Yangzhou was once the richest place.
到了清朝年间，乾隆将江苏省分设为江宁、江苏二布政使司，前者治江宁府，后者治苏州府。
During the Qing Dynasty, Qianlong divided Jiangsu Province into two divisions: Jiang Ning, the former treating Jiangning Province, and the latter Suzhou Prefecture.
虽然江苏省境内有两布政使司，但统受一巡抚领导。
Although there are two cloth emissaries in Jiangsu Province, they are under the leadership of a governor.
由此可见，在这个时期，江苏省的省会实际上确实是有两个，一个南京，一个为苏州。
It can be seen that in this period, the capital of Jiangsu Province is actually two, one in Nanjing and one in Suzhou.
这也拉开了南京和苏州“内斗”的序幕。
This also opened the Nanjing and Suzhou "infighting" the prelude.
（图源：铲史官漫画）再后来，由于种种历史因素和政治影响，南京成立特别市，镇江一度成为江苏省会。
Later, due to various historical factors and political influence, Nanjing set up a special city, Zhenjiang once became the capital of Jiangsu Province.
总之，自古以来，江苏并没有一个一直占据非常强势地位的中心城市，故而直至今日，人们调侃南京的省会地位，也有这层历史在。
In short, Jiangsu did not have a very strong position in the center of the city since ancient times, so to this day, people joke about Nanjing's provincial capital status, there is this history.
河流水系多，地理再分割水系，这是造成江苏“内斗”很重要的一个原因。
Many rivers and rivers, and the geographical division of the water system, this is a cause of "internal strife" in Jiangsu is very important.
打开地图,你会发现长江穿过江苏省境内，把江苏一分为二，长江以南为苏南,长江以北为苏北。
You will find that the Yangtze River divides Jiangsu into two parts, south of the Yangtze River and north of the Yangtze River.
然而除了长江，淮河也从江苏流过, 淮河作为中国地理分区北方地区和南方地区的地理分界线，一下子就把江苏分成了南北两方。
However, in addition to the Yangtze River, the Huaihe River also flows through Jiangsu Province. As the geographical demarcation line between the northern and southern regions of China, the Huaihe River immediately divided Jiangsu into two parts, North and South.
重重分割，实在容易让人分不清南北。
Divided, it is easy to distinguish between North and South.
而且，从纵向上看,大名鼎鼎的京杭大运河也从江苏流过,甚至在古代，黄河还从江苏流过。
And, vertically, the famous Great Canal also flows through Jiangsu, and even in ancient times, the Yellow River flows through it.
全省有200多个湖泊, 中国五大淡水湖江苏有两个,洪泽湖和太湖。
There are more than 200 lakes in the province, two in Jiangsu, Hongze Lake and Taihu Lake.
江苏省水网全国最密,18%的面积是水面。
Jiangsu Province water network is the most dense, 18% of the surface area.
古代水面面积则更多。
Ancient water surface area is more.
发达的水系把江苏分割成一块一块的，一定程度上也阻碍了沟通。
The developed water system, which divides Jiangsu into parts, also hinders communication to a certain extent.
方言差异大，实在难说和如果你问江苏话怎么说，大概所有的江苏人都会异口同声地告诉你：“没有江苏话。
It's hard to tell how different the dialects are. If you ask Jiangsu how to say it, probably all Jiangsu people will tell you in unison: "There is no Jiangsu dialect.
”事实上，不同地区的江苏人之间交流也多是用普通话，因为他们根本听不懂对方的方言。
In fact, Jiangsu people from different regions communicate mostly in Mandarin because they do not understand each other's dialects.
比如，同样夸人身体好，用苏州话就是“砸墩”；用淮安话就是“身体多吉杠啊！”。
For example, the same boast of good health, in Suzhou dialect is "smash trick"; in Huaian language is "body multi-bar!"
完全不同的两个词，就问你能不能懂。
I'm going to ask you if you can understand two completely different words.
（江苏省方言图，来源：《中国语言地图集》(第2版)江苏省分为三个方言区，即江淮官话区、吴语区、中原官话区。
(Jiangsu Province Dialect Map of Jiangsu Province, Source: China Language Atlas (2nd Edition) Jiangsu Province is divided into three dialects, namely Jianghuai Dialect Area, Wu District and Central Plains Guanyuan District.
各个方言区内部则能够互通，例如吴语区内各城市之间方言互通，但吴语区城市和江淮官话区城市之间则完全不能互通。
Dialect districts are able to communicate with each other, such as the dialects of the cities in the Wu-speaking region, but not between the cities in the Wu and Jianghuai Dialects.
连沟通都尚有障碍，这也难怪时不时就“打一架”了。
Even though there are obstacles to communication, it is no wonder that every once in a while "hit".
经济发达，“内斗”也欢乐要说到散装的根本，到底还是经济问题。
Economic development, "infighting" also happy to say that the bulk of the root, after all, is an economic problem.
在苏南地区，不仅苏州、无锡、南京几乎分别都“富可敌省”，许多县级市都实力强大，比如江阴、宜兴等，可能连自己所属的地级市都不怎么待见。
In southern China, not only Suzhou, Wuxi and Nanjing are almost all "Fuke and Enemy Provinces," but many county-level cities are strong, such as Jiangyin and Yixing, and may not even be well received by their own prefectural cities.
就连常被吐槽GDP相对落后的苏北地区，放在全国可还是十分能打。
Even the North Jiangsu, which is often left behind in terms of gross domestic product, can still fight well across the country.
(图源21数据新闻实验室）江苏是全国唯一所有地级市都跻身百强的省份，直接占了名单五分之一的名额，经济综合竞争力位列全国第一。
Jiangsu Province is the only province in China where all prefectural-level cities are among the top 100, accounting for one-fifth of the total number of people on the list.
综合竞争力第一是什么概念呢，江苏13个市就有实力建出9个机场。
What is the concept of comprehensive competitiveness first? Jiangsu 13 cities have the strength to build 9 airports.
举个例子来说，江苏最穷的宿迁排名13，搁浙江排第8，搁广东能排第6，在安徽直接挤列第3。
For example, Jiangsu's poorest Suqian 13, placed in Zhejiang 8th place, Guangdong can be ranked 6th, in Anhui Province directly row 3.
大家都挺有钱，也就谈不上谁觉得低谁一等，相反可能还互相你不服我我不服你，结果形成了正循环，各家经济都向好了。
We are all rich, and there is no question of any one feeling inferior; on the contrary, you and I may not agree with each other. The result is a positive cycle in which all economies are doing well.
这种区域平衡群星璀璨的发展制度让江苏十三市有足够的底气“散装”。
This regionally balanced and star-studded development system gives Jiangsu's thirteen cities enough gas to "bulk".
无论如何，各种因素交织使得江苏成为今天的「宇宙苏」，但当疫情来临，人心凝结，曾经的散装也即刻集聚，能爆发出“宇宙级能量”。
In any case, various factors conspire to make Jiangsu what it is today, but when the epidemic strikes and the human heart condenses, the bulk that used to be there immediately accumulates, producing "cosmic-level energy."
参考资料：江苏地情网、中国江苏网、《江苏年鉴》、搜狐网     来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
Reference: Jiangsu Province, Jiangsu Net, Jiangsu yearbook, Sohu.net: less-than-usual welcome to share with your friends, if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~      。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
苏州市医疗队、丰县医疗队……“散装江苏”究竟是怎么来的？。
Suzhou medical team, Fengxian medical team...... "Bulk Jiangsu" how come after all?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "苏州市医疗队、丰县医疗队……“散装江苏”究竟是怎么来的？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "散是十三星，聚是苏大强。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Scattered 13 stars; Ju is Su Da-qiang.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
