那些日本捐赠物资上的诗句。
The verses of the Japanese donating the material.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
日本支援物资上的中国诗，是支持，也是表达友情。
Japan supports Chinese poetry in material terms, both as an expression of support and as an expression of friendship.
整理 | 韩凤兰 蒋敏玉 甘笠男 吴敏霞编辑 | 沈小山近日，日本捐赠的抗疫物资引起了大家的广泛关注，这些物资的外包装上引经据典，除了有取自日本国长屋王偈子的“山川异域，风月同天”，还有诸如《诗经》等取自中国古典文学中的、意蕴深厚情感丰沛的诗句，这些诗句，表达的不仅是日本对中国抗击疫情的支持，还有中日源远流长的友情。
The Japanese donation of anti-epidemic materials has attracted extensive attention recently, except for the "mountain and river outback, the same day" poems from the ancient Chinese literature such as the Songs, which express not only Japan's support for China's fight against the epidemic, but also its long-standing friendship with China.
山川异域，风月同天日本汉语水平考试HSK事务局支援湖北高校物资上印有“山川异域，风月同天”。
On the same day, the HSK supported Hubei colleges and universities in printing "exotic mountains and rivers, the same day."
公元七世纪，佛学文化走出大唐，异域生花；而今，21世纪新十年的开端，来自日本的文化慰藉给疫情笼罩下的武汉带来了别样的温暖。
In the seventh century, Buddhist culture came out of the Tang Dynasty, exotic flowers; now, at the beginning of the new decade of the 21st century, cultural comfort from Japan has given Wuhan a different kind of warmth under the shadow of the epidemic.
一千三百多年前，佛学文化在日本面临着“自发”的困境，尽管“拿来”佛学，但却始终无法发挥其真正的作用。
More than 1300 years ago, Buddhist culture was faced with the dilemma of "spontaneous" Buddhism in Japan.
和尚鱼龙混杂，佛学声誉受损，正是此时，舍人亲王前往大唐，找寻名僧。
Monks mixed, damage to the reputation of Buddhism, it is precisely at this time, Xue Prince to the Tang Dynasty, looking for a famous monk.
“山川异域，风月同天。
"Mountains and rivers exotic, the same day.
寄诸佛子，共结来缘。
Sending all Buddhas a common bond.
”绣在袈裟上的这句偈语感动了鉴真，自此两渡日本。
This gatha embroidered in the surplice moved the appreciation of truth, and since then both transited Japan.
2020年2月2日，偈语穿越千年，化身为中日友谊的见证，在这个春天感动了中国人民。
In agatha on February 2, 2020, agatha became the witness of Sino-Japanese friendship and touched the Chinese people this spring.
山河不同，人事迥异，但是我们同处一片天空之下，共沐清风，同赏皎月。
Different mountains and rivers, different personnel, but we are under the same sky, a total bathe in the breeze, the same appreciation of the moon.
HSK对武汉高校的捐赠，是雪中送炭，是“但愿人长久，千里共婵娟”的满心祝福。
The donation of HSK to Wuhan University, is a gift in the snow, is "long, reunions and reunions" full blessing.
动人的不只是物质上的帮助，还有这背后日本对中国传统文化的尊重、认同和传承，以及日本民众对中日两国情谊的珍视。
What is moving is not only the material help, but also the respect, identification and inheritance of the traditional Chinese culture behind it, as well as the Japanese people's attachment to the friendship between China and Japan.
中日文化“一衣带水”，中国唐朝文化更是对日本文化产生深远的影响。
The culture of China and Japan "one coat with water" and the Tang Dynasty culture of China had a profound influence on Japanese culture.
在日本，有很多人热爱着中国传统文化。
In Japan, there are many people who love Chinese traditional culture.
如今，越来越多的日本大学开设了中文课程，民间中文教学也越来越活跃。
Nowadays, more and more Japanese universities offer Chinese courses, and folk Chinese teaching is becoming more and more active.
2019年日本青少年育成协会会长增泽空就曾表示，参加HSK考试的考生可能会超过4万人。
In 2019, Japan's Association of Teenagers and Adults president Yoshikawa said more than 40,000 candidates could take the HSK test.
岂曰无衣，与子同裳同样附上诗句的还有来自日本医药NPO法人人心会、日本湖北总商会、Huobi Global、株式会社Incuba Alpha四家机构联合捐赠给湖北的医疗物资。
No clothes, and the children with the same clothing also attached poetry from NPO Japanese medicine, Hubei General Chamber of Commerce, Huobi Global, plant Incuba Alpha four agencies jointly donated medical supplies to Hubei.
其他三句诗均含”山”、“河”等自然风光之字，而“岂曰无衣，与子同袍”却吐露出一种激昂慷慨之士气。
The other three lines contain the words "mountain," "river" and other natural scenery, while "no clothes, with the children's robe" reveals a passionate and generous morale.
原诗：岂曰无衣？与子同袍。
Psalm: Wouldn't it be clothed? With the robe of the son.
王于兴师，修我戈矛。
Wang Yu-xing, repair my spear.
与子同仇！岂曰无衣？与子同泽。
Hatred with the Son! Or without clothing? With the Son?
王于兴师，修我矛戟。
Wang Yu-xing, repair my spear halberd.
与子偕作！岂曰无衣？与子同裳。
Grow together with your children, will you say no clothes and take your clothes with your children?
王于兴师，修我甲兵。
Wang Yu-xing, repair my soldiers.
与子偕行！该诗出自《诗经·秦风·无衣》，原是一首战歌，表现秦国军民团结一心、同仇敌忾的气氛，也是爱国主义精神的展现。
Grow together with the children! This poem is from "The Sutra of Qin Feng: No Clothes." It was originally a war song, expressing the unity and solidarity of the people and troops of the State of Qin and the enemy and a manifestation of patriotism.
其中的“岂曰无衣？与子同裳”可译为：“谁说我们没衣穿？与你同穿那战裙”。
Who says we have no clothes? We wear the same dress with you.
当时的秦国位于今甘肃东部及陕西一带，秦人骁勇善战，民性厚重质直。
The Qin Dynasty was located in the eastern part of Gansu Province and the Shaanxi area.
朱熹《诗集传》曾言：“秦人之俗，大抵尚气概，先勇力，忘生轻死，故其见于诗如此。
Zhu Xi's "Book of Poems" once said: "Qin people's vulgarity, most of the noble, first brave, forget life light death, so it is seen in poetry.
”沙场上铁血奋战的男儿、马蹄激起的滚滚黄沙仿佛近在眼前，秦人高昂之士气不得不令人心神澎湃。
The sandy rolling sand stirred by the horseshoes and the iron-blooded men on the battlefield seemed to be in sight, and the morale of the Qin people had to be breathtaking.
据《左传》记载，鲁定公四年（公元前506年），吴国军队攻陷楚国的首府郢都，楚臣申包胥到秦国求援，“立依于庭墙而哭，日夜不绝声，勺饮不入口，七日，秦哀公为之赋《无衣》，九顿首而坐，秦师乃出”。
According to the Zuo Zhuan, four years after the Duke of Lu (506 BC), Wu's army captured the capital of the State of Chu, Ying-tu.
以诗势师，壮秦军之士气。
Poetry division, Zhuang Qinjun morale.
今天“岂曰无衣？与子同裳”一句虽非用作鼓舞将士上战场杀敌，却有异曲同工之妙。
Today "do not say clothes? with children" sentence is not used to encourage soldiers to go to the battlefield to kill the enemy, but there is similar work.
“疫情”当前，医护人员、军人就如同当时的秦国军民，在这没有硝烟的战场上勇敢与病毒抗争，挽救生命。
"Epidemic Disease" At present, medical personnel, military personnel are like the Qin people, in this smoke-free battlefield bravely fighting with the virus, saving lives.
日本以此诗赠与湖北，或希望振奋奋斗在前线的人们，团结友爱、共抗“新冠肺炎”。
Japan gave this poem to Hubei, or hope to inspire people struggling in the front line, unity and fraternity, together to fight "New Crown Pneumonia."
辽河雪融，富山花开；同气连枝，共盼春来这句话印在了日本富山县向辽宁省捐赠的口罩箱子上。
This sentence is printed on the mask box donated to Liaoning Province by Fushan Prefecture of Japan.
2月10日由中国南方航空公司免费承运，1万枚口罩从日本富山机场运往辽宁大连，支援辽宁抗击疫情。
February 10 by China Southern Airlines free carrier, 10,000 masks from Fushan Airport in Japan to Liaoning Dalian, Liaoning Province to support the fight against the epidemic.
它引用自南朝梁·周兴嗣《千字文》“孔怀兄弟，同气连枝。
It quotes from the South Chaoliang Zhou Xing-hei's Thousand-character Text.
交友投分，切磨箴规。
Make friends, cut the rules.
”“同气连枝”比喻同胞的兄弟姐妹。
This idiom refers to a sibling of a compatriot.
大意是说兄弟之间要相互关心，因为同受父母血气,如同树枝相连。
To the effect that brothers should be concerned about each other, because they share the flesh of their parents and are connected to each other like branches.
而富山县和辽宁省自1984年5月9日缔结友好省县关系以来，已保持了36年的友好合作关系。
However, Fushan and Liaoning provinces have maintained friendly and cooperative relations for 36 years since the conclusion of friendly provincial and county relations on May 9, 1984.
正如辽宁省长唐一军曾在致辞中说，“辽宁是中国的老工业基地，与日本一衣带水、隔海相望。
"Liaoning is the old industrial base of China, separated by water and the sea from Japan," said Tang Yung Jun, Liaoning's minister.
特别是与富山县友谊深厚、源远流长。
Especially with the rich mountain county friendship deep-rooted.
”富山县综合政策局长藏堀祐一也表示：“我知道目前当地对口罩的需求是迫在眉睫的，辽宁省的各位正在面临着困难，我们将给予支持。
"I know there is an urgent need for masks here, and everyone in Liaoning Province is facing difficulties, and we will support them," said Sukei Holobori, director of integrated policy for Fushan County.
”青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡2月9日到达大连的一批防护物资上同样印着一句让人动容的诗句“青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡。
"Qingshan with a cloud rain, the moon has been the two villages on February 9 arrived in Dalian on the protection of the same sentence printed a moving line" Qingshan with the clouds rain, the moon has been two townships.
”这批物资的捐赠方是日本京都府舞鹤市。
The donor was the Japanese city of Kyoto Dance Crane.
这句诗出自唐代王昌龄的《送柴侍御》:沅水通波接武冈，送君不觉有离伤。
This poem comes from Wang Changling of Tang Dynasty: Yuanshui is connected with Wugang.
青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡。
Qingshan with a cloud rain, the moon is where the two townships.
两地的青山同承云朵荫蔽、雨露润泽，同顶一轮明月又何曾身处两地呢？这首诗通过想象来创造各种形象，以化“远”为“近”，使“两乡”为“一乡”。
The green hills of the two places share the shade of clouds and the rain and dew cover, and where has the same moon ever been? This poem uses imagination to create images to turn "Yuan" into "nearness" and "two townships" into "one township."
它蕴涵的正是人分两地、情同一心的深情厚谊。
It implies the deep friendship between two places and one heart.
1982年5月8日，大连市与舞鹤市缔结友好城市关系。
On 8 May 1982, Dalian concluded a friendly city relationship with the city of Danhe.
38年来两城市在经济文化教育等领域开展了丰富多彩的交流活动，两个海港城市守望相助，舞鹤市已成为大连市在日本最为重要的“亲戚”城市之一。
In the past 38 years, the two cities have carried out rich and colorful exchanges in economic, cultural and other fields.
每年5月，在大连的赏槐会期间，都有众多的舞鹤市民访问大连。
In May each year, during the locust party in Dalian, a large number of crane citizens visit Dalian.
随这批物资一同抵连的，还有大连市荣誉公民、舞鹤市市长多多见良三的慰问信。
Along with this material arrived, there are Dalian Honorary Citizens, Mayor of Dance Crane City to see more than three letters of comfort.
信中，多多见良三市长表达了对大连的挂念，对大连医护工作者的祝福，以及舞鹤市会继续为大连筹集物资。
In his letter, Mayor Dodo expressed his concern for Dalian, his blessing of Dalian's medical workers, and the city of Dance Crane would continue to raise supplies for Dalian.
用“青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡”用来表达舞鹤市对大连市的的情谊是很合适的。
With "Qingshan together with cloud rain, bright moon who was once two townships" used to express the city of Dance Crane City to Dalian's friendship is very appropriate.
又何况那青山云雨、明月之夜，更能撩起舞鹤市人民对大连友人的思念，一面是对朋友的宽慰，另一面已将深挚不渝的友情，渗透在字里行间。
How much more that Qingshan cloud rain, bright moonlight night, more dancing crane city people to Dalian friends miss, on the one hand is comforted friends, on the other side has deep deep deep friendship, permeated between the lines.
诗词泼墨流传千年，这样优秀的文化值得我们为之自豪，同样，珍视文化的友好邻邦也值得我们虚心学习。
Poetry splashed around for thousands of years, such an excellent culture is worthy of our pride, just as, cherish the culture of friendly neighbors also worthy of our humble study.
在疫情面前，比物资匮乏更让人心寒的是对疾病的歧视，而这种文化尊重则足以带来精神的慰藉，疫情也许会暂时阻挡我们前进，但文化的根基不倒，终有一日可以拨云见日。
In the face of the epidemic, even more chilling than the lack of supplies is discrimination against disease, and that cultural respect is enough to bring spiritual comfort. An epidemic may temporarily stop us from moving forward, but the roots of culture will not fail and one day we will see the light of day.
参考资料：搜狐、新京报、大连新闻网、澎湃新闻、西窗烛APP、古诗文网来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
Reference: Sohu, Xinjing News, Dalian News Network, Peng Pai News, Western Window APP, Ancient Poetry Web, welcome to share with your circle of friends, if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些日本捐赠物资上的诗句。
The verses of the Japanese donating the material.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那些日本捐赠物资上的诗句";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "日本支援物资上的中国诗，是支持，也是表达友情。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Japan's support for Chinese poetry in material terms is both a gesture of support and an expression of friendship.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
