湖北新增病例为何大幅增加？临床诊断病例和疑似病例有何不同？。
Why did the number of new cases increase significantly in Hubei? What are the differences between clinical diagnosis and suspected cases?
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
据湖北省卫健委官网2月13日消息，2月12日0时-24时，湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，较前几日大幅增加。
A total of 14,840 new cases of pneumonia were reported in Hubei province between 0000 and 2400 hours on February 12, a sharp increase over the previous days, Hubei Province, Hubei Province.
原因何在？湖北省卫健委今日公布的《湖北省新冠肺炎疫情情况》给出答案：从今天起，湖北省将临床诊断病例数纳入确诊病例数进行公布。
From today, Hubei Province will report the number of cases of clinical diagnosis to the number of confirmed cases, according to the results of the Hubei Provincial Health Commission's report on the situation of new cases of pneumonia in Hubei Province.
湖北省卫健委在此前一天的官方通报中，便首次出现“临床诊断病例”一项，不过当时并未纳入新增确诊病例，而是予以了单列——截至2月11日24时，湖北新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1638例，新增临床诊断病例4890例，现有临床诊断病例10567例。
The case was first reported in an official notice the day before, although it was not included in the list of newly confirmed cases - as of 2400 hours Feb. 11, Hubei had 1,638 new cases of confirmed pneumonia, 4,890 new cases of clinical diagnosis and 10,567 cases of existing clinical diagnosis.
湖北省卫健委称，随着对新型冠状病毒肺炎认识的深入和诊疗经验的积累，针对湖北省疫情特点，国家卫生健康委办公厅、国家中医药管理局办公室印发的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》在湖北省的病例诊断分类中增加了“临床诊断”，以便患者能及早按照确诊病例接受规范治疗，进一步提高救治成功率。
According to the Hubei Wei Health Commission, with the deepening of the understanding of the new coronavirus pneumonia and the accumulation of clinical experience, the National Bureau of Health and Hygiene and the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine issued the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection" (Trial Version 5).
根据该方案，近期湖北省对既往的疑似病例开展了排查并对诊断结果进行了订正，对新就诊患者按照新的诊断分类进行诊断。
According to the program, recent cases of suspected cases in Hubei Province were screened and the diagnosis revised, and new patients were diagnosed according to the new diagnostic classification.
为与全国其他省份对外发布的病例诊断分类一致，从今天起，湖北省将临床诊断病例数纳入确诊病例数进行公布。
Since today, Hubei Province has included the number of clinical diagnosis cases in the number of confirmed cases, in line with the classification of cases published by other provinces of the country.
那么“临床诊断病例”代表什么含义？总台央视记者特地前往武汉金银潭医院，专访了中央指导组专家、北京朝阳医院副院长童朝晖。
So what does "clinical diagnosis case" mean? CCTV reporter went to Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital specially, interviewed the central guidance group expert, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital vice-president Tong Chaohui.
记者：什么是“临床诊断病例”？中央指导组专家、北京朝阳医院副院长童朝晖：我们在看病诊断肺炎时，能够拿得到的病原学，也就百分之二三十，剩下的百分之七八十要靠临床诊断。
Reporter: What is a "clinical diagnosis case"? Children Chaohui, vice-dean of Beijing Chaoyang Hospital and an expert of the Central Steering Group: When we visit the doctor to diagnose pneumonia, we can get 2: 30 percent of the etiology, and the remaining 80 percent is based on clinical diagnosis.
从临床思维和临床医生的临床路径角度来说，增加临床病例的诊断，有益于临床医生对疾病多一个判断。
From the point of view of clinical thinking and clinician's clinical path, increasing the diagnosis of clinical cases is helpful for clinicians to judge the disease.
Play前一段时间我们主要是靠核酸来进行确诊病例。
PlayWe used to rely on nucleic acids to confirm cases a while ago.
实际上按照我们临床诊断的标准，是有一大部分疑似病例的。
In fact, by the standards of our clinical diagnosis, there is a large number of suspected cases.
在临床工作中，我们从这几个方面综合诊断：第一，如果病人在湖北或者在武汉地区，那肯定是已经有流行病学史了；第二是发热、呼吸道咳嗽、憋气的症状，这是临床症状；第三是临床有体征，查体检查；第四个是CT影像。
First, if the patient is in Hubei or Wuhan area, there must be an epidemiological history. Secondly, there are symptoms of fever, respiratory cough and suffocation, which are clinical symptoms.
比如说我们常见的肺炎链球菌肺炎，实际上能拿到阳性的比例以及培养的比例也就百分之二三十，大部分是靠临床医生来对临床病例下一个临床诊断。
For example, our common pneumonia streptococcus pneumoniae, can actually get the positive rate and the proportion of culture is only 2. 30 percent, mostly clinicians to the next clinical diagnosis of clinical cases.
记者：怎样认识核酸检测和CT检测的价值？童朝晖：经常会有人讨论，化验重要还是CT影像重要。
Reporter: How to recognize the value of nucleic acid testing and CT detection? Children Chaohui: It is often discussed whether testing is important or CT imaging.
很多放射科的专家也强调CT影像的重要性，实际上在临床工作中我们都是要有依据的。
Many radiologists also emphasize the importance of CT imaging, in fact we have to have evidence in clinical work.
病人的病史、症状体征、临床化验、CT，都要分析，所以说这些对临床医生来讲都不可缺少，需要做综合判断，综合分析。
The patient's medical history, symptomatic signs, clinical tests, CT, all have to be analyzed, so said that these clinicians are indispensable, need to do comprehensive diagnosis, comprehensive analysis.
Play我们不能强调核酸的重要性，也不能强调CT的重要性。
We cannot emphasize the importance of nucleic acids, nor the importance of CT.
我们临床医生要会分析核酸相关的化验，对CT影像也要会分析、会看、会读。
Our clinician will analyze nucleic acid-related tests, and CT images will be analyzed, read, and read.
作为一个呼吸科医生，一个临床危重症医生，我们要仔细地去询问病史，发现临床的蛛丝马迹，通过临床的查体手段，还有先进的检验技术。
As a respiratory physician, a clinician in critical condition, we have to carefully inquire about the history, find signs of clinical signs, through clinical means of physical examination, and advanced testing techniques.
其实读CT影像，既是放射科医生的看家本领，也是临床医生的看家本领。
In fact, reading CT images is not only the radiologist's home skills, but also the clinical doctor's skills.
做疾病综合诊断的时候，化验和CT影像，我们要综合分析，不能强调某一个的重要性。
When we do a comprehensive diagnosis of the disease, the laboratory and CT images, we have to synthesize the analysis, can not emphasize the importance of one.
2月12日，医护人员将患者送入武汉体育中心方舱医院。
Feb. 12, medical staff sent the patient to Wuhan Sports Center Fang cabin hospital.
新华社 图2月12日0时-24时，湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例14840例。
Xinhua News Agency reported 14,840 new cases of pneumonia in Hubei province between 0000 and 2400 hours on February 12.
其中，仅临床诊断病例一项便有13332例，占了12日新增确诊病例的近九成。
Of these, 13332 cases were clinically diagnosed alone, accounting for nearly 90% of the 12 newly diagnosed cases.
那么，临床诊断病例和疑似病例有何不同？据澎湃新闻报道，根据《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，湖北省内和省外疑似病例、确诊病例的定义有所不同，并且新增了“临床诊断”这一分类。
So what is the difference between a clinical diagnosis and a suspected caseAccording to a roaring news report, the definition of suspected and confirmed cases in Hubei Province differs according to the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 5)," adding a new classification of "clinical diagnosis."
就湖北省外来说，疑似病例为：有明确流行病学史；有发热和/或呼吸道症状；具有肺炎影像学特征；发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少的，系疑似病例。
For those outside Hubei province, the suspected cases are: clear epidemiological history; fever and / or respiratory symptoms; imaging features of pneumonia; normal or decreased leukocyte counts in the early stages of onset, or reduced lymphocyte counts.
确诊病例为：需有呼吸道标本或血液标本行实时荧光RT-PCR检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性；或病毒基因测序，与已知的新型冠状病毒高度同源。
The confirmed cases are: a real-time fluorescent RT-PCR performed on a respiratory specimen or blood specimen to detect a new coronavirus nucleic acid-positive; or viral gene sequencing, which is highly homologous with the new coronavirus.
针对湖北省内，疑似病例为：有明确流行病学史；符合“发热和/或呼吸道症状”和“发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少”的临床表现。
In Hubei province, the suspected cases were: clear epidemiological history; clinical manifestations consistent with "fever and / or respiratory symptoms" and "normal or decreased leukocyte counts in the early stages of onset, or reduced lymphocyte counts."
确诊病例为：需有呼吸道标本或血液标本行实时荧光RT-PCR检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性；或病毒基因测序，与已知的新型冠状病毒高度同源。
The confirmed cases are: a real-time fluorescent RT-PCR performed on a respiratory specimen or blood specimen to detect a new coronavirus nucleic acid-positive; or viral gene sequencing, which is highly homologous with the new coronavirus.
临床诊断病例为：上述疑似病例具有肺炎影像学特征者。
The clinically diagnosed cases were: the above-mentioned suspected cases have the characteristics of pneumonia imaging.
此前，国家卫健委于1月28日发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第四版）》中明确，新冠肺炎确诊病例需有“呼吸道标本或血液标本行实时荧光RT-PCR检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性”。
Earlier, the National Health Commission announced on January 28, "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia (Trial 4th Edition)," the new coronavirus nucleic acid-positive case must be detected with "real-time fluorescent RT-PCR in respiratory specimens or blood samples."
简单来说，就是若核酸检测结果显示为阳性，则可确诊为新冠肺炎患者。
Simply put, if the nucleic acid test results are positive, it can be diagnosed as a new crown pneumonia.
但临床经验显示，一直作为新冠肺炎确诊“金标准”的病毒核酸检测在实践中出现了假阴性的情况。
But clinical experience has shown that viral nucleic acid testing, which has always been the "gold standard" for new crown pneumonia, has turned out to be false-negative in practice.
也就是说，有一部分病人没有检测出来，出现了漏诊。
In other words, some patients did not detect, there is a missed diagnosis.
这样可能造成一些传染源没有真正地被识别出来，造成疫情扩散的风险。
This may result in some sources of infection not actually being identified, creating a risk of the spread of the epidemic.
核酸检测假阴性的出现，也让针对新冠肺炎的诊疗方案作出微调。
The appearance of false-negative nucleic acid testing has also allowed for fine-tuning of the diagnosis and treatment of Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
疫情发生后，国家卫健委对《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》不断更新，并于2月5日发布了试行第五版。
After the outbreak, the NCHC continuously updated the "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infection" and released the fifth edition of the trial on February 5.
这一版的诊疗方案在病例诊断上，将湖北省和湖北省以外其他省份有所区别。
This version of the diagnosis and treatment program in the case of diagnosis, Hubei Province and Hubei Province outside the other provinces are different.
2月5日晚间，中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院院长王辰接受央视《新闻1+1》采访时也表示，并不是所有的病患都能检测出核酸阳性，对于真是新型冠状病毒感染的病人，也不过只有30%至50%的阳性率。
In an interview with CCTV's "News 1 + 1" during the night of February 5, Wang Chen, vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and director of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, said not all patients tested positive for nucleic acid.
通过采集疑似病例咽拭子的办法，还是有很多假阴性。
By collecting swabs from suspected cases, there are still a lot of false negatives.
（南都周刊综合新华视点、央视新闻、澎湃新闻报道）END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(NANDU WEEKLY synthesizes Xinhua News, CCTV News, Peng Pai News) Welcome to your circle of friends. If you want authorization, please email: newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北新增病例为何大幅增加？临床诊断病例和疑似病例有何不同？。
Why did the number of new cases increase significantly in Hubei? What are the differences between clinical diagnosis and suspected cases?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北新增病例为何大幅增加？临床诊断病例和疑似病例有何不同？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why has there been a sharp increase in new cases in Hubei? What's the difference between clinical and suspected cases?
var msg_desc = "专家解释来了";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
