一个武汉女孩的自述：慌乱中被迫成长，以后要学做家务学烧菜。
Wuhan girl told her story: she was forced to grow up in panic and learn how to cook at home.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
我很清楚地感受到，自己成长的速度跟不上家庭在危机中前进的节奏，我开始重新审视自己在家庭中所扮演的角色。
I clearly felt that I had not grown up fast enough to keep pace with my family's progress during the crisis, and I began to re-examine my role in the family.
我觉得我应该成为连接父母和世界的一座桥梁。
I feel like I should be a bridge between my parents and the world.
文|孟予编辑|小豆版式| 陈星萌22岁的李湘明一直在武汉生活，2019年大学毕业后，她在武汉江岸区后湖附近一家财会公司工作。
At the age of 22, Li Xiangming, who has been living in Wuhan since graduating from university in 2019, worked for a accounting company near Houhu in Wuhan.
从未离开过父母的她，生活上几乎不用操心。
Having never left her parents, she hardly had to worry about life.
2019年的跨年夜，李湘明还和朋友来到江汉路的步行街聚会。
In 2019, Li Xiangming and his friends also came to JiangHan Road pedestrian street meeting.
那天，她第一次听说“不明原因肺炎”。
That day, she first heard of "pneumonia for unknown reasons."
那时并没有消息说，这个病毒可以“人传人”。
At the time, there was no word that the virus could "pass from person to person."
直到2020年1月18号，一家人一起发烧后的第十天，父母再次发烧，李湘明开始慌了。
By January 18, 2020, 10 days after the family had a fever together, Li Xiangming began to panic again.
她开始陪着父母去打针，凌晨2点出发去医院排队，次日下午5点才能回家。
She began to accompany her parents to the injection, 2 a.m. to go to the hospital queue, the next day at 5 p.m.
之后，母亲的病情一步步加重，却一直无法做核酸检测，也无法住院。
Since then, the mother's illness gradually increased, but has not been able to do nucleic acid testing, and can not be hospitalized.
而网上关于肺炎的消息越来越多，李湘明的心也越来越乱。
And the news of pneumonia on the Internet more and more, Li Xiangming's heart is more and more chaotic.
终于在1月28日，母亲去做了核酸检测，几天后获知是阴性。
Finally on January 28, my mother went for a nucleic acid test and a few days later she learned she was negative.
李湘明悬着的心总算放下了。
Li Xiangming's overhanging heart finally let go.
这一个月来，李湘明在手足无措中被迫成长。
For a month, Li Xiangming was forced to grow up in bewilderment.
以下是李湘明的口述：一全家发烧，辗转多院1月8日，平常几乎不生病的爸爸发烧了。
The following is Li Xiangming's dictation: A family with a fever, tossing and turning hospital Jan. 8, the father, who was usually barely ill, developed a fever.
我开车带他到离家最近的武昌医院，打了一针消炎药，他好了，但是随后的两天，我和母亲也陆续开始反复发低烧。
I drove him to the nearest hospital in Wuchang for an injection of anti-inflammatory drugs. He was OK, but for the next two days my mother and I both had recurring fever.
我们同样来到武昌医院打针，退了烧。
We also came to Wuchang Hospital injection, the fever.
我曾在12月31日和爸妈提过，在微博里看到武汉出现了“不明原因肺炎”，但是具体是什么病，什么症状，是否传染都一概不知。
On December 31, I mentioned to my parents that in Weibo, I saw the emergence of "unknown pneumonia" in Wuhan, but I knew nothing about the disease, its symptoms or whether it was contagious.
因此，也没有多想，没有做任何防护。
Therefore, also did not think much, did not do any protection.
1月17日，爸爸再次发烧，他在武汉人民医院开了点药。
On January 17, my father had a fever again. He prescribed some medicine at Wuhan People's Hospital.
我觉得有点不对劲，开始隐隐地担心，是不是肺炎？次日，我妈妈也发烧了，还开始咳嗽。
I felt something was wrong, and began to worry vaguely, was it pneumonia? The next day, my mother also had a fever and began to cough.
这个时候正值新闻对新型冠状病毒的报道增多，不知道是不是心理作用，我也觉得嗓子不太舒服。
This comes at a time when news reports of a new coronavirus are on the increase. I don't know if it is psychological.
于是决定一家三口去华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院（以下简称协和医院）拍胸部CT。
So decided that a family of three to Huazhong University Tongji Medical College affiliated Concorde Hospital (hereinafter referred to as Concorde Hospital) chest CT.
我的肺部显示正常，父母的CT检查单则说，“考虑感染病变”。
My lungs are showing signs of normality, and my parents' CT scan says, "Consider the infection."
母亲的片子里显示，左肺有一点感染，那时候我还没往这方面想，我更担心的是，会不会演变成肺癌，因为母亲本身体质就不好。
My mother's film shows a little infection in her left lung, and I wasn't thinking about it then. I was more worried about it becoming lung cancer because my mother was not in good health.
（受访者供图）当晚，我把母亲的片子发给一位在武汉市黄陂区一家医院的放射科上班的朋友，请他帮忙看看。
That night, I sent my mother's film to a friend working in the radiology department of a hospital in Huangpi District, Wuhan, asking him to take a look.
他告诉我，这个情况主要考虑感染病变的肺炎，但是也没有提到新型冠状病毒。
He told me that the case mainly considered pneumonia, but did not mention the new coronavirus.
从这时起，医院的人逐日增多。
Since then, the number of people in hospitals has increased day by day.
每天凌晨，我陪爸妈一起去协和医院打针。
Every morning, I go to Concorde Hospital with my parents for an injection.
排队的人特别多，要到第二天下午5点才能回家。
The line was so heavy that they couldn't get home until 5pm the next day.
因为我爸妈病了，所以我让他们去旁边坐着，我一个人站着排队。
Because my parents were sick, I asked them to sit next to me and I stood in line.
长时间不吃不喝，又打乱了作息，大家真的都很累，但是有什么办法。
For a long time did not eat and drink, and interrupted the rest of the work, we are really tired, but what can be done.
我放眼望去，大家都是很疲惫的样子，有的人就直接坐在地下了。
I look around, everyone is very tired, some people just sit directly under the ground.
我陪着爸妈在协和医院打了三天针，父亲完全好了，能吃能喝，但是母亲还没好转，依然在咳嗽。
I spent three days with my parents at Concorde Hospital. My father was perfectly well, able to eat and drink, but my mother was still coughing.
1月21日，母亲在协和医院做了第二次胸部CT，片子显示右肺也有一部分被感染了。
On 21 January, the mother underwent a second chest CT scan at Concorde Hospital, which showed that part of the right lung had also been infected.
医生口头上告诉我，看片子的结果，多半是病毒性肺炎，至于是否是新型冠状病毒，还有待检测，现在这样的情况最好住院，但是医院现在没有病床，所以先自己回家隔离。
The doctor told me verbally that the result was mostly viral pneumonia. As to whether it was a new coronavirus, it was better to be hospitalized, but the hospital did not have beds, so I went home and isolated myself.
（受访者供图）1月23日，协和医院将发热门诊的一些病人转移到武汉市红十字会医院。
On January 23, Concorde Hospital transferred some patients from the fever clinic to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
次日，我说自己有点呼吸困难，我妈急死了，很担心我被感染，一直催我去检查。
The next day, I said I was having trouble breathing, and my mother, worried that I was infected, kept pressing me for an examination.
最后显示没有感染病毒，但是我妈不许我跟着她去打针了，那天全家都很着急，我想去给我妈争取一个病床，一来妈妈身体一直很虚弱，常年小手术不断，2019年8月还做了两次大手术。
It turned out there was no infection, but my mother forbade me to follow her, and the family was worried that day. I wanted to get a bed for my mother, who had been in poor health for years with minor surgery and had two major surgeries in August 2019.
我担心她挺不过去，每天这样跑来跑去、排队打针，太折磨人了。
I'm afraid she won't make it. Running around and queuing up and down every day is torture.
二来我怕他们听到医生说什么，就真的认为是什么。
Second, I'm afraid they really think it is when they hear what the doctor says.
我妈越说越急，她都要哭了，最后说，如果今天我也跟着去医院，那这个病她就不治了，就在家等着。
The more my mother spoke, the more she cried. Finally, if I went to the hospital with me today, she would die of the disease and wait at home.
我们全家沉默了足足有三分钟吧，最后我妥协了，放他们走了。
My family was silent for three minutes before I finally relented and let them go.
也是在这一天，武汉宣布封城了。
On the same day, Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
虽然是为了控制疫情，但我真的好难过，为什么武汉变成这样了？接下来的每一天，我就在家里做消毒，在网上查很多相关信息。
Although it is to control the epidemic, but I am really sad, why did Wuhan become so? The next day, I do disinfection at home, a lot of information on the Internet.
我按照同济治愈医生的自述给我妈做吃的。
I cooked food for my mother according to the Tongji Healing Doctor.
其实也不是我做，我不会做饭。
It's not really me. I can't cook.
我还冒着风险点了鸡汤的外卖，看了那家外卖那几天的评论，一直有人买，我就也买了，等我妈打针回来就给她喝。
I also took the risk of ordering the chicken soup takeout, read the takeout reviews of those days, and when anyone bought them, I bought them and gave them to my mother as soon as she came back.
我白天在家，切好菜、做些家务，蒸一碗鸡蛋羹，等我爸妈回来。
I stay at home during the day, cut food, do some housework, steam a bowl of chicken egg soup, wait for my parents to come back.
二苦等检测，网络求助1月25日，妈妈咳嗽还未好转，感觉肺部烧得慌，她又去红十字会医院检查，结果显示双肺全部感染。
She went to the Red Cross hospital for tests and found that all her lungs were infected. But she did not feel better and her lungs burned.
我真的急疯了，我迫切地想知道，到底是不是新型冠状病毒感染。
I'm really crazy. I'm dying to know if it's a new coronavirus infection.
但是我妈去过的每一家医院，包括武昌医院、武汉人民医院、协和医院和武汉市红十字会医院，都说自己没有权限做试剂盒检测。
But every hospital my mother visited, including Wuchang Hospital, Wuhan People's Hospital, Concorde Hospital and Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, said they were not authorized to test kits.
（受访者供图）我问他们怎样才能有权限？医生说需要专家申请。
I asked them how they would be allowed to apply. The doctor said they needed experts to apply.
但是他们既不知道专家在哪，也不知道怎么找专家。
But they don't know where the experts are or how to find them.
网上有传闻说试剂盒不够，我就问，是不是试剂盒不够，他说不是，就是需要有专家申请，才能做测试。
On the Internet there are rumors that the kit is not enough, I asked if the kit is not enough, he said no, it is necessary to have an expert application to do the test.
想要住院，医院也说没有病床。
Want to be hospitalized, the hospital also said there are no beds.
我实在不知道该怎么办，当天发了两条微博求助。
I really do not know what to do, that day issued two Weibo for help.
后来就有微博的工作人员说帮我认证，我就给了对方资料，认证后引起了很多关注。
Later, there were Weibo staff said to help me authenticate, I gave each other information, certification after a lot of attention.
网友告诉我，还有很多医院，我就给一医院、五医院、七医院、汉口医院、肺科医院、人民医院的东院这6家医院打电话，询问能否做核酸测试，都说不行。
Netizens told me that there are still many hospitals, I gave a hospital, five hospitals, seven hospitals, Hankou hospital, lung hospital, people's hospital, the East Hospital of the six hospitals, asked if you can do nucleic acid tests, said no.
还有网友提到，可以先去社区卫生服务中心治疗。
Still netizen mentions, can go to community health service center to treat first.
我立刻从网上找到号码，联系了社区，社区工作人员做了信息登记，告诉我最快明天会有反馈。
I immediately found the number online, contacted the community, and the community workers registered the information and told me that there would be feedback as soon as tomorrow.
但是具体能不能做核酸检测，他也没给我一个明确的答案。
But he didn't give me a clear answer as to whether he could do a nucleic acid test.
在社区登记以后，每天都有工作人员来询问情况。
After registration in the community, staff members come to ask questions on a daily basis.
我之前完全不知道这件事，我想，像我爸妈那个年纪的人，他们怎么能接收到这么多信息呢？我觉得宣传太不到位了。
I had no idea about this before, and I thought, how could people my parents' age receive so much information? I think the publicity is too bad.
包括武汉禁行后，是可以联系社区要车用的。
Including Wuhan banned after the community can be contacted for cars.
这些信息如果不是我看到了，很可能等他们知道的时候已经很晚了，就会耽误病情。
If I hadn't seen the information, it would have been too late for them to know, and it would have delayed the process.
我印象中最深刻的一幕，是在武昌医院里给我妈联系病床的时候。
The most impressive scene I remember was when I contacted my mother for a hospital bed in Wuchang.
当时我拿到了住院单，护士登记之后，说要去找急诊科的主任签字，她抬手指了一个方向，我找了半小时也没找到人。
When I got the admission slip and the nurse signed up to see the director of the emergency department, she pointed in one direction and I searched for half an hour without finding anyone.
然后就又问了个医生，医生说可以直接去登记，有床位的话会通知的。
Then asked a doctor, the doctor said that can go directly to register, if there is a bed will notify.
我又去找护士，护士说，只能去找主任签字。
I went to the nurse again, and the nurse said she could only ask the chief for her signature.
我就这样被推来推去，不知所措的时候，看到旁边一对互相搀扶着的老爷爷老奶奶。
I was pushed around like this, at a loss when I saw a pair of grandpa and grandma holding each other.
他们佝偻着身体，走路很慢，也是跟我们一样情况。
They hunched over and walked very slowly, just like us.
他们两个最后直接把住院单撕了，说不看了，就直接走了。
The two of them finally tore up the hospital bill, said no, and went straight away.
我真的很难受，我在想，像他们这样的，又该怎么办呢？可我现在自顾不暇，现在应该有很多人跟我们一样，不知道怎么办吧。
I'm really sick, I wonder, what should I do with people like them, but I'm so busy right now that there should be a lot of people like us who don't know what to do.
（小区放国歌，居民们大喊“武汉加油”，图源微博）27号晚上，我们家小区自发地在阳台唱国歌，很多人喊，武汉加油。
(The community played the national anthem, residents shouted "Wuhan refueling," Tuyuan Weibo) 27 night, our community spontaneously in the balcony singing the national anthem, many people shouted, Wuhan refueling.
那一刻我心里又苦涩，又感动，我也走出去喊了几句。
At that moment my heart again bitter, moving, I also went out to shout a few words.
我想，如果我们团结一致，一定可以渡过难关。
I think if we stand together, we can make it through.
三虚惊一场，反省成长1月28日，我妈妈接到协和医院打来的电话，说可以去做核酸检测。
On January 28th, my mother received a call from Concorde Hospital saying she could have a nucleic acid test.
随后，社区也打来电话，说今天确定登记的话，明天可以去武昌医院做核酸检测。
Subsequently, the community also called, said today to confirm the registration, tomorrow can go to Wuchang Hospital for nucleic acid testing.
我觉得有点矛盾，27号我自己在武昌医院问，他们的答复是没有权限。
I felt a bit ambivalent. I asked myself at Wuchang Hospital on the 27th and their answer was no authority.
但是我没有时间考虑，为了尽快知道消息，我在社区登记了爸爸的名字，然后让妈妈今天赶紧去协和医院做测试。
But I didn't have time to think about it. To get to know the news soon, I registered Dad's name in the community and told my mother to rush to Concorde Hospital for a test today.
妈妈做完检测后，协和医院说可以预约明天的检测，就顺便在协和给父亲约了，大医院做检查会更放心。
After her mother did the test, Concorde Hospital said that tomorrow's test can be booked, incidentally in Concorde to father's appointment, the big hospital will be more relieved.
之后，医生告诉我妈妈，如果晚上没有接到电话，就说明没事。
After that, the doctor told my mother that if she didn't get a call at night, it would be all right.
过了好几天，我妈妈收到短信，说结果是阴性。
Several days later, my mother received a text message saying that the result was negative.
她戴着口罩，走到客厅里，告诉我们这个消息。
Wearing a mask, she went into the living room and told us the news.
我蛮庆幸的，提着的一颗心总算放下了。
I'm glad I finally let go of a heart I was carrying.
因为父亲第一次打针后，症状全无，看起来已经恢复如常了，所以我不太担心父亲，而母亲的核酸测试已经有结果了，整个人从紧绷的状态中缓和了一些。
Since my father had no symptoms after the first injection and seemed to have recovered to normal, I was less worried about my father, and my mother's nucleic acid test had already yielded results, easing the tension a little bit.
但是检测还是要做的，目前还在等待父亲的检测结果。
But the tests still have to be done, and the results of the father's tests are still awaited.
我没有立即把确诊消息发在微博里，不是不愿意分享好消息，而是社交媒体上的阅读太多，稍有不慎就会引发恐慌。
I did not immediately post the diagnosis on Weibo, not unwilling to share the good news, but rather too much reading on social media, a little carelessness will trigger panic.
现在每天都有很多人私信我，我每一条都认真看了。
There are a lot of people who trust me every day, and I read every one of them carefully.
有的人是过度恐慌的，说Ta的体温现在37度了，是不是感染了，该怎么办。
Some people are too scared, said Ta's temperature is 37 degrees now, is not infected, how to do.
也有人是和我一样，拖了很多天无法确诊、住院的。
Others are like me, delayed for many days can not be diagnosed, hospitalized.
老实说，我也只是一个求助者，能做的只有安慰他们，再分享我这些天所了解的“干货”，比如同济治愈医生的那篇文章。
To be honest, I'm just a supplicant, and all I can do is comfort them and share what I've learned these days about "dry goods," like the article by the Tongji healer.
但是后来总有人问，我就在结果出来的第二天发了微博。
But then someone would ask me, I just posted a tweet the day after the results.
活了22年，这是我人生中最难熬的一个月。
I lived for 22 years. It was the hardest month of my life.
第一次遇到这么大的事，我不敢在父母面前哭，不想让他们担心，就晚上自己躲在被子里哭。
The first time I encountered such a big event, I dare not cry in front of their parents, do not want to let them worry, on their own at night hiding in the quilt to cry.
以前我每晚10点准时睡觉，但是这段时间我经常失眠，已经开始服用安神药。
I used to go to bed at 10 every night, but I often had insomnia and started taking sedatives.
其实我爸妈每次凌晨出门去医院的时候，我都是醒着的。
In fact, my parents go out to the hospital every morning, I am awake.
我会立刻下床，戴上口罩走到客厅，跟他们强调一遍，一定要戴上我买的医用外科口罩，否则在那里很容易交叉感染。
I would get out of bed immediately, put on a mask and walk into the living room, emphasizing that I must wear the surgical mask I bought, otherwise it would be easy to cross-infect there.
我也知道，我妈其实只是没对我说而已，她可能更慌乱，更不知道怎么办。
I also know, my mother just did not tell me, she may be more confused, do not know how to do.
有一次，我发现她手机的搜索记录里，全部都是新型冠状病毒相关的内容。
On one occasion, I discovered that the search logs on her cell phone were all related to the new coronavirus.
我们都只是不想让对方担心。
We just don't want each other to worry.
这一次，我很清楚地感受到，自己成长的速度跟不上家庭在危机中前进的节奏。
This time it was clear to me that I had not grown up fast enough to keep pace with my family's progress through the crisis.
成长都是被逼出来的，我开始重新审视自己在家庭中所扮演的角色。
Growing up forced, I began to re-examine my role in the family.
以后，我要学习做家务和做菜，总不能像这次一样，我妈生病了，戴着口罩还要给我烧菜。
In the future, I will learn to do housework and cooking, always like this, my mother is sick, wearing a mask and cooking for me.
还要督促我爸妈锻炼身体。
And urge my parents to exercise.
只有免疫力强，才不会轻易被病毒打倒。
Only immunity is strong, will not be easily knocked down by the virus.
再有，我觉得我应该成为连接父母和世界的一座桥梁。
Moreover, I feel that I should be a bridge between my parents and the world.
他们年纪大了，不怎么上网，微信是使用最多的手机软件。
They're older, don't get much Internet access, and micromail is the most widely used mobile software.
现在已经是网络社会了，信息爆炸的状态下，如果不主动去搜集信息，很难了解到最新的情况。
Now is the network society, the state of information explosion, if not actively to gather information, it is difficult to understand the latest situation.
27号武汉开始实行社区分级分类诊疗，如果不是网友在私信和评论里告诉我，我也完全不知道，原来社区还可以登记，还可以安排就诊。
Wuhan began to implement community classification diagnosis and treatment, if not in private letters and comments told me, I do not know, the original community can also register, and can arrange medical consultations.
我觉得这次微博求助多少发挥了点作用，至少更快速地从各路网友那里听到更多的新情况。
I think this micro-blog help more or less played a role, at least more quickly from the various netizens to hear more new information.
其实以前我自己都不怎么玩微博，但现在给妈妈也下载了微博，我帮她关注了几个健康科普类的博主，没事时总可以看到几眼消息。
I didn't really use to be a microblogger myself, but now I'm downloading microblogs for my mom, and I've been following a couple of health science bloggers for a while.
以后如果我知道了什么新消息，我一定会当面详细讲给他们听，而不是像以前一样甩个链接或者发消息到我们三个人的群里，他们是否点开仔细看了，我都不能确定。
In the future, if I learn anything new, I will tell them in person, rather than send a link or a message to the three of us as before.
现在我迫切期盼着疫情结束，我从未见过这样的武汉，街道上空空荡荡，入眼的全是戴着口罩的人。
Now I look forward to the end of the epidemic, I have never seen such Wuhan, the streets empty, eyes full of people wearing masks.
如果疫情结束了，我最想做的事情是带着父母出去转转。
If the epidemic is over, what I want to do most is take my parents out for a walk.
他们从来没有离开过武汉这座城市，我想陪他们一起，再去看看这个美丽的大世界。
They have never left the city of Wuhan, I would like to accompany them to see this beautiful big world.
（应被采访者要求，李湘明为化名。
(At the request of the interviewee, Li Xiangming is an alias.
）小南征集：疫情过后你最想做的一件事是什么？许多计划由于这场疫情被拖滞在寒冬，在家的这段日子，我们关注着每天的疫情，期待着每天醒来之后能刷到好消息，希望能够早日走出门去，完成自己这段时间心心念念最想做的事。
Many plans are stuck in the cold winter.During this time, we are watching the epidemic every day, looking forward to the good news when we wake up every day, hoping that we will be able to get out of the house and do what we want to do.
疫情过后你最想做的事是什么？是大口吃肉？还是立马见到那个人？又或是想明白了一些事情，想在之后改变一些什么？戳链接↓↓http://ccc20200206.mikecrm.com/iYjgCwz说说你春天的愿望吧，我们将精选留言在“南都周刊”的微博和公众号上推送，让我们一起盼春来！来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
What do you most want to do after the epidemic? A stammer? Or to see that person right away? Or to understand something, and try to change something later? Wee Pound http: / / ccc20200206.mikecrm.com / iYjgCwz, let's hope for spring!
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉女孩的自述：慌乱中被迫成长，以后要学做家务学烧菜。
Wuhan girl told her story: she was forced to grow up in panic and learn how to cook at home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个武汉女孩的自述：慌乱中被迫成长，以后要学做家务学烧菜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a Wuhan girl's self-report that she was forced to grow up in panic and learn to cook and cook at home.;
var msg_desc = "疫情过后，我要带他们出去看看美丽的大世界";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; after the epidemic, I'll take them out to see & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; beautiful world;;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
