售楼处关闭怎么办？房企这样“战疫”。
Sales Office closed how to do? Housing enterprises like this "plague."
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
未来楼市调控松绑预期渐浓。
Future housing market regulation is expected to loosen gradually.
记者 |王晓珊编辑 | 盛倩玉 小豆“销售旺季的时候，每个人每个月也就是接待20-30批次的客户，一场直播下来，可以加到40批的客户，相当于一个半月的客户量，线上直播还是有效果。
"When sales season was booming, everyone received 20 to 30 batches of customers a month, a live broadcast that can be added to 40 batches of customers, the equivalent of a month and a half of customers.
”一位龙头房企的销售员工说，自己的第一场直播，就获得了10万左右的播放量。
A sales staff member of a leading housing company said his first live broadcast generated about 100,000 broadcasts.
由于受到疫情影响，很多地方的房地产开发企业响应政府号召，售楼处关闭，工地停工。
As a result of the epidemic, many local real estate developers responded to the Government's call for the closure of sales offices and site work.
短期看，疫情给房企带来的影响无可避免，但房企们也开始积极反思自身的投资及营销策略。
In the short term, the impact of the epidemic on the housing sector is inevitable, but housing companies are also actively reflecting on their investment and marketing strategy.
多地房企暂停售楼处销售1月26日，为有效预防新冠肺炎疫情蔓延，中国房地产业协会发布倡议书指出，房地产开发企业应暂时停止售楼处销售活动，待疫情过后再行恢复。
The China Association of Real Estate Agents issued a proposal to temporarily halt sales of housing units until after the outbreak of the disease, in order to effectively prevent the spread of the disease.
随后，各城市纷纷跟进出台相关政策通知。
Subsequently, cities have been followed up with relevant policy notices.
据克而瑞研究中心（CRIC）不完全统计统计，截止目前，已有包含湖南、江西、广东、海南、黑龙江以及武汉、成都、重庆、福州、南京、苏州、杭州、合肥在内至少60余个省市下发通知，明确要求暂停售楼处销售活动。
According to incomplete statistics, so far at least 60 provinces and municipalities, including Hunan, Jiangxi, Guangdong, Hainan and Heilongjiang, as well as Wuhan, Chengdu, Chongqing, Fuzhou, Nanjing, Suzhou, Hangzhou and Hefei, have issued notices explicitly calling for the suspension of sales activities.
“由于疫情原因，售楼部关门不接待客户，关闭时间将近有大半个月了。
"Because of the epidemic, the sales department closed its doors to customers for almost half a month.
”一名龙头房企的营销人员告诉南都周刊记者，目前仍未有明确的开放期间，“在这期间，有很多客户想来项目看房，但是由于疫情原因，都暂不接待客户。
A leading home marketer told Nandu Weekly that there was still no clear opening period during which "many customers would like to see the project, but because of the outbreak, they are temporarily not receiving customers.
”发布售楼处暂停营业通告的省市（图片来源：诸葛找房）售楼处销售活动“停摆”，导致多地面临无房可供现象。
Sales offices in cities and provinces where notices of suspension have been issued (Source: Zhuge Looking for a room) have stopped selling their properties, causing many of them to face a lack of housing supply.
CRIC监测到94个典型城市自1月20日以来，供应面积便呈现出稳步下行趋势，且周度同环比降幅均有不断扩大趋势，节后一周，各城基本为零供应。
The CRIC has monitored a steady downward trend in the supply area of 94 typical cities since 20 January, with an increasing trend in the weekly and ring-to-ring decreases, with cities having a virtually zero supply in the week following the festival.
与此同时，楼市热度在春节假期也骤然降温。
At the same time, the property market heat in the Spring Festival also suddenly cooled.
CRIC在另一份关于春节楼市的报告指出，与去年春节假期相比，2020年春节假期供应尚能与2019年基本持平，可春节后一周（初七-十三）随着疫情形势逐步严峻，84城供应量由假期时的25万平方米降至4万平方米。
In another report on the Spring Festival holiday, the supply of Spring Festival in 2020 will remain at the same level as in 2019 compared to last year's Spring Festival holiday, according to another CRIC report on the sector.
新房成交下跌，融资规模下降销售渠道受阻，疫情防控措施不断加强，居民关注焦点多集中于疫情发展和如何抗疫，新房成交量出现下降。
New houses fell, financing scale dropped sales channels blocked, epidemic prevention and control measures were strengthened, residents focused on the development of the epidemic and how to fight the disease, the volume of new homes declined.
CRIC监测的楼市成交量显示，春节期间（除夕到初六），88个重点城市成交量仅为37万平方米。
CRIC monitoring of the property market volume shows that during the Spring Festival (New Year's Eve to the sixth day), 88 key cities turnover is only 370,000 square meters.
疫情爆发后，房企更像重新走入冬季，88个重点城市春节假期成交量环比前一周出现下跌，降幅达93%，与2019年春节假期相比，88个城市新房成交面积减少30%，相比2018年春节假期下跌63%。
After the outbreak, housing companies are more like a return to winter, with 88 key cities experiencing a 93 per cent drop in volume during the Spring Festival compared with the previous week, and 88 cities seeing a 30 per cent decrease in the number of new home transactions compared with the 2019 holiday season, a 63 per cent decrease from the 2018 Spring Festival.
疫情爆发后，房企春节以来融资规模下降。
After the outbreak of housing enterprises since the Spring Festival financing scale declined.
CRIC表示，一方面受春节法定假期延长的影响，另一方面出行及活动管控等导致大部分融资机构路演停摆，监管层在融资审批方面进度放缓叠加等原因，房企发债大幅减少。
CRIC said, on the one hand, the impact of the extended Spring Festival statutory holidays, on the other hand travel and activities control led to the suspension of most of the financing institutions, regulators in the financing approval process slowed down the superposition, and other reasons, housing loans significantly reduced.
据CRIC不完全统计，从2020年1月25日到2月10日，95家典型房企春节后完成发债融资的仅有4笔，分别为建业地产、新城控股、佳源国际及容盛发展发行的境外有限票据，涉及金额不足百亿元人民币，与2019年春节相对应的时间段相比，减少86%。
According to incomplete statistics, from January 25 to February 10, 2020, only four out of 95 typical housing companies completed debt financing after the Spring Festival, involving less than RMB 10 billion in overseas bills issued by Jianyi Properties, Xincheng Holdings, Jiayuan International and Yongsheng Development.
房地产是资金密集型行业，疫情影响融资减少持续对房企造成压力。
Real estate is capital-intensive industry, the epidemic affects the financing of continued pressure on housing enterprises.
诸葛找房提供给南都周刊记者的一份报告中显示，房企一季度销售预期较差，房企拿地积极性下降；其次，由于房地产建筑施工高度依赖外来务工人员，加之疫情导致全国范围内短期开工不足，拉长上市供应的节奏，对房企资金链来说是一个很大的挑战。
Zhuge said in a report provided to Nandu reporters that housing companies had poor first-quarter sales expectations and reduced incentives for homeowners. Second, because real estate construction is highly dependent on migrant workers and the epidemic has led to a nationwide shortage of short-term work, lengthening the pace of supply is a big challenge for the housing finance chain.
“从销售方面来看，目前多家售楼处关闭，对房企最直接的影响就是销售额明显下滑。
"From the point of view of sales, the current closure of a number of sales offices, the most direct impact on the housing sector is a significant decline in sales.
”报告中分析指出，“房企一方面面临着还债压力，另一方面受疫情影响销售回款也有所延后。
"Housing companies are under pressure to pay down their debts, while sales of cash due to the epidemic have been delayed," the report said.
这对于一些资金紧张的中小房企，无疑是加大压力。
This is a number of capital constraints on small and medium-sized housing enterprises, is undoubtedly increased pressure.
施工暂停、营销暂停，影响后续推盘节奏，也会影响房企的“高周转”模式。
Suspension of construction, marketing suspension, affecting the pace of subsequent push, will also affect the "high turnover" model of housing enterprises.
”在融资受阻，销售停滞，开工延迟多种原因叠加下，企业可能将面临债务违约。
Companies could face a default on their debts, compounded by a combination of stalled financing, stagnant sales and delayed start-up.
据CRIC统计，2020年截止2月10日，共有69家房企破产，其中2月上旬就有20家。
According to the CRIC, 69 housing companies went bankrupt as of February 10, 2020, including 20 in the first half of February.
疫情对房企的影响（图片来源：诸葛找房）需求犹在，疫情过后或将迎“小高潮”但当前情况并不意味着刚需的消失，客户购房需求犹在。
2007-9-25 09: 48 The Epidemic Affects Housing Epidemic Demand is still there, and the epidemic may be headed for a "mini-orgasm," but the current situation does not mean just the need to disappear, and customer demand for housing is still there.
以广州为例，广州中原研究发展部指出，不少刚需客户担心业主趁着小阳春的节点上调楼价，因此抢先在春节回乡前把握“上市”时机，周度成交维持在1100宗的相对高位水平，成交量明显优于去年春节同期（500-800宗）。
Taking Guangzhou as an example, Guangzhou Zhongyuan Research and Development Department has pointed out that many newly-needed customers are worried that the owners will take advantage of the rising prices of their properties to seize the opportunity to go public before the Spring Festival returns.
“步入春节后，1月24日-31日，广州二手中介网签总数为2宗。
"Into the Spring Festival, January 24-31, Guangzhou second-hand intermediary total of two.
但疫情结束后，市场或将迎来‘小高潮’。
But the end of the epidemic, the market may usher in a 'little climax'.
”广州中原研究发展部预测。
Guangzhou Zhongyuan Research and Development Department forecasts.
“本次疫情对于购房需求没有太大影响，购房需求并不会减少，”诸葛找房在报告中提到，随着需求的集中释放，对于开发商来说是一个机会。
"The epidemic will have little impact on the demand for homes and demand will not diminish," Zhuge said in a report that as demand is concentrated it is an opportunity for developers.
而且，随着当前改善类需求迅速增加，加之疫情期间的需求的延期释放，改善性市场迎来发展机会。
Moreover, with the current rapid increase in demand for improved classes, coupled with the delayed release of demand during the epidemic, improved development opportunities for the sex market have emerged.
线下不行转战“线上”疫情之下，不能眼看着线下运行受到冲击，很多房企“坐不住”了。
Line can not turn "line" under the epidemic, can not see the offline operation by the impact, many housing enterprises "sit tight."
世茂、绿地、保利等房企通过房天下、新浪乐居等平台开启了线上看房；一些房企通过小程序、微信公众号的方式开启网上营销模式，例如万科的万科在线家小程序、金地的金地好房小程序等；各大房地产平台也利用VR等技术搭建起线上展示的新模式。
Real estate companies such as Shimao, Greenfield, Poly and other platforms have opened up online marketing models by means of small programs and micro-credit public numbers, such as Vanke's Vanke online home applet and Golden Terrace applet; real estate platforms also use VR and other technologies to build new models for on-line display.
“线上直播看房刚开始启动，效果仍待观察。
"Online live viewing has just started, and the effect remains to be seen.
”一龙头房企营销人员称，通过线上直播卖出房子的都是以前的老客户，新客户更多是在观望中。
One leading home marketer said it was former customers who sold their homes live online, with new customers watching more.
“毕竟疫情仍未结束，征信查询、银行的贷款面签问题等仍待解决，对市场行情的不看好，也是新客户观望的重要原因。
"After all, the epidemic is still not over, credit inquiry, bank loans face-to-face problems, such as still to be resolved, the market is not optimistic, is an important reason for new customers to wait and see.
”另一家国内Top20的房企销售人员告诉南都周刊记者，不看好线上直播，直言体验感很差：“看直播的都是小鲜肉，直播受众与购房受众不是一个层次的。
Another home-company salesperson at Top20 told Nandu Weekly that it didn't like the live broadcast, and the experience was bad: "It's all small, and the audience is not the same as the audience.
”他认为，网络购物在淘宝推出直播带货之前就遇到瓶颈期，很多消费在网上并没有很好的消费体验。
He argues that online shopping hit a bottleneck before Taobao launched live delivery, and that many consumers don't have a good consumer experience online.
“房产还是着重落地，强调物联、实体、可感，而且直播还很容易把楼盘的问题给传播出去。
"The real estate is still focused on landing, the emphasis on the physical, sensuous, and the live broadcast is also easy to spread the problem of the property.
”此外，诸葛找房近期发布的研究报告中同样提到，目前线上售房只是一个在线看房的平台，供购房者和需求方在线浏览，并不能主动获客及筛选客户，很难促成客户成交。
Also, a recent study by Zhuge said that online sales are just a platform for online house-watching, for both buyers and demand-side online browsing, and that it is difficult to reach customers and screen them.
疫情下线上售房会维持购房者对房企和购房的好感及意识，但并不会对整体的销售有较大改善。
Outbreak on-line sales will maintain buyers of housing and home ownership and awareness, but will not have a significant improvement in overall sales.
线上销售虽无法完全替代线下销售，但仍有房企销售员工认为好的效果会在未来显现。
Online sales can not completely replace offline sales, but there are still housing sales staff think the good results will appear in the future.
“销售旺季的时候，平时每个人每个月也就是接待20-30批次的客户，一场直播下来，可以加到40批的客户，相当于一个半月的客户量，线上直播还是有效果。
"During the sales season, everyone usually receives 20 to 30 batches of customers a month, and a live feed can be added to 40 batches of customers, the equivalent of a month and a half of customers.
”一龙头房企销售员工告诉记者，“目前客户对于直播看房接纳度挺高，一方面也是因为在家没事干，可以参与到直播的新事物中，另一方面，由于直播形式和内容的新颖，可以在直播当中给大家带来一些福利和笑容。
A leading housing company sales staff told reporters, "At present, the degree of acceptance of live viewing is very high, on the one hand, because there is no work to do at home, can participate in the live broadcast of the new things, on the other hand, the format and content of live broadcast can bring you some benefits and smile.
”他表示，自己的第一场直播，最后的统计数据显示有10万左右的播放量，在市场中还是很可观的。
He said his first live broadcast, with the final statistics showing about 100,000 broadcasts, was still "substantial" in the market.
采取线上看房的房企及推广方式（数据来源：诸葛找房整理）在房企遭遇资金流压力的时候，中国恒大已经走出延迟开工的一步。
China Everton has stepped out of a delay in building construction at a time when housing companies are under pressure to fund their own homes.
据该公司2月1日下发的通知显示：全国1246个在建项目，在2月20日前不得开工，具体开工时间将根据疫情另行通知。
According to the notice issued by the company on February 1, 1,246 projects under construction nationwide will not begin before February 20.
疫情或给房企提供一个调整发展规划的机会。
Epidemic or to provide housing enterprises with an opportunity to adjust development planning.
诸葛找房认为，当前房企要谨慎拿地，未来在产品做精做细方面多下功夫，“面对疫情，房企的现金流受到严重考验，因此房企务必要把握机会，拓宽融资渠道，加强融资，保证现金流安全。
Zhuge found that the current housing enterprises should be careful to take the land, in the future in the fine details of the product to do more work, "the epidemic, the cash flow of housing enterprises are severely tested, so it is imperative that housing enterprises seize the opportunity, broaden financing channels, strengthen financing, ensure cash flow safety.
”疫情下，未来楼市调控松绑预期渐浓。
"Under the epidemic, the future housing market deregulation is expected to intensify.
银河证券发布于2月11日的研报称：近期的央行投放1.2万亿流动性、LPR降息和因城施策的密集实施，释放出政策托底和改善的信息，后续政策的弹性有望扩大。
The recent release of 1.2 trillion liquidity by the central bank, LPR interest rate cuts and intensive implementation of the city's policy measures, releasing policy cover and improved messages, are expected to increase the flexibility of follow-up policies, Yinhe Securities reported on Feb. 11.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
售楼处关闭怎么办？房企这样“战疫”。
Sales Office closed how to do? Housing enterprises like this "plague."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "售楼处关闭怎么办？房企这样“战疫”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "楼市调控松绑预期渐浓";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
