口罩供与需：一场没有硝烟的战争 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Mask Supply and Demand: A Smoke-Free War-Economic Watch - Professional Financial News Website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="于惠如";。
Var auther = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot;
口罩供与需：一场没有硝烟的战争。
Mask supply versus demand: A war without smoke.
于惠如2020-02-13 15:25。
In favour: 2020-02-13 15: 25.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 于惠如 深圳报道2月12日晚7点58分，桌上的手机开始震动，李娜从沙发上坐直，拿过手机关掉闹钟，开始登陆穗康小程序，随后的十几分钟她一直盯着手机，不断刷新页面。
At 7: 58 pm on Feb. 12, Li Na sat upright on the sofa, took her cell phone off the alarm clock and began landing on the Sakai gadget. For the next ten minutes, she stared at her mobile phone and refreshed the page.
8点10分，她叹了口气，放下手机。
At 8: 10, she sighed and put down her phone.
“预约未成功，页面一直处在未成功界面动不了。
"Appointment failed, the page has been in an unsuccessful interface can not move.
”。
"
1月31日，避免市民排长队聚众，广州在全国推出首个线上口罩购买实名登记系统。
On January 31, avoiding long queues of citizens, Guangzhou launched its first online mask purchase system nationwide.
从那天起，李娜必每晚定闹钟上线预约，但13天来，她从未成功过。
From that day on, Li Na had to set an alarm clock every night to make an appointment, but for 13 days, she never succeeded.
据口罩购买实名登记机制的设计方介绍，小程序刚上线时，规则是先到先得，系统正式版使用后，规则变成了摇号，中签率不到5%。
According to the designer of the mask purchase mechanism, when the application first went online, the rule was first come, first served. When the system was in use, the rule was changed to a shake-up, with less than 5%.
。
.
李娜遇到的困难，也是大部分人正在面临的问题。
Li Na's difficulties are also the problems most people are facing.
时至今日，“一罩难求”依然是全国人民的真实写照。
To this day, the "one size does not fit all" remains the true image of the nation.
。
.
中国是世界最大的口罩生产国，工信部公开数据显示，我国口罩最大产能是每天2000多万只。
China is the world's largest producer of face masks, and its maximum capacity is more than 20 million a day, according to Ministry of Industry and Communications data.
截至2月10日，全国口罩企业复工率已经超过76%。
As of February 10, the national recovery rate of mask enterprises has exceeded 76 percent.
为扩大产能，全国多个产业集群区转产、新建、扩建口罩产线，但对于普通市民来说，口罩难购买问题仍然普遍。
To expand production capacity, a number of industrial clusters across the country to convert, build, expand the production line, but for the general public, the problem of purchasing masks is still common.
“买不到口罩”依然是最近的热门话题。
"Buying face masks" is still a hot topic of late.
。
.
在一位纺织行业专家看来，简单从供需来看，目前我国口罩供应量远远小于需求量，这也是造成“一罩难求”最直接最简单的原因。
In the view of an expert in the textile industry, simply from the supply and demand, the supply of masks in China is far less than the demand, which is also the most direct and simple cause of "difficult access."
“加上临时新建、扩产的产线，全国口罩日产量肯定会大于2000万，我们以3000万计算。
"With the addition of temporary new and expanded production lines, the national output of masks will certainly be more than 20 million a day, we count 30 million.
那需求是多少呢？眼下的情况，每天一个亿的需求是有的，这个缺口还是很大的，所以说要让每个人每天保证有一个口罩，我觉得短期内是很难实现的。
What's the demand? There's a billion dollars a day and the gap is huge, so I don't think it's going to be easy for everyone to get a mask every day.
”。
"
在这个庚子年的春天，口罩的“供与需”如同一场没有硝烟的战争，影响着每个人。
In this Gengzi spring, the "supply and demand" of masks is like a war without smoke, affecting everyone.
。
.
口罩生产供应链条上，哪一环节才是“卡脖子”环节？随着企业陆续复工、新建、扩建产线逐步释放，口罩产能否进一步扩大？口罩需求何时才能填补？。
Mask production supply chain, which is the "neck" link? With the resumption of work, new construction, expansion of the production line gradually released, mask production can be further expanded? When can the demand for masks be filled?
非口罩生产企业转产。
Conversion of non-mask manufacturing enterprises.
“年初四晚上开会讨论，年初五落实转线。
"Meeting early Thursday night and turning on early Friday.
”广东先来医疗器械有限公司（以下简称：先来医疗）副总经理陈志强告诉经济观察报记者，这是他从业十余年来，开过的效率最高的会议。
Chen Zhiqiang, deputy general manager of Guangdong Medical Devices Ltd., told the Economic Observer it was the most efficient conference he had held in more than a decade.
。
.
陈志强说的会议是广东省为缓解口罩稀缺而号召部分非口罩生产企业转线生产口罩的会议。
Chen said the meeting was a meeting in Guangdong Province to ease the scarcity of masks and called on some non-mask manufacturers to switch production line masks.
近日，广东各地政府部门主动开辟绿色通道，已帮助一批企业实现转产，投入到口罩生产中。
Recently, Guangdong government departments across the initiative to open green channels, has helped a number of enterprises to achieve conversion, into the production of masks.
。
.
茂名本来没有口罩生产企业，由于口罩成为当前最紧缺的物资之一，茂名相关部门在全市具备生产加工能力的企业中排查后，最终确定先来医疗作为转产厂商。
Maoming originally did not have mask production enterprises, because masks become one of the most scarce materials, Maoming-related departments in the city has the production and processing capacity of enterprises after the final determination of medical treatment as a conversion manufacturers.
。
.
“我们本来是做医疗器械的，场地、技术过关，人员均有过相关培训，并且以前也生产过口罩，要转线相对比较容易。
"We used to do medical equipment, site, technical clearance, personnel have relevant training, and have previously produced masks, to turn the line relatively easy.
”陈志强介绍说，日前，先来医疗借助绿色通道，仅用半天时间就完成口罩生产资质备案手续，当前日产能可达5万只一次性医用口罩。
Chen Zhiqiang said that the first medical treatment with the help of the Green Channel, only half a day to complete the mask production qualification procedures, the current capacity of 50,000 disposable medical masks.
。
.
虽在短时间内完成转产，但因为设备不足、原材料紧缺等问题，先来医疗口罩产量仍然跟不上。
Although in a short period of time to complete the conversion, but due to insufficient equipment, raw materials, and other problems, first to the production of medical masks still can not keep pace.
“通过政府调配，公司现在有一套设备，但是按照目前公司的场地、人员，支撑5至6套设备都是足够的，但现在没有设备。
"Through the government, the company now has a unit, but according to the company's premises, personnel, to support five to six sets of equipment is sufficient, but there is no equipment.
”。
"
先来医疗并非个案。
First aid is not a case in point.
记者了解到，为缓解口罩稀缺状况，非口罩生产企业转为口罩生产企业成为一条重要途径。
Reporters learned that in order to alleviate the scarcity of face masks, non-mask manufacturers to become an important way of manufacturing enterprises.
日前，各省药品监管部门已启动医疗器械应急审批的程序。
Recently, the provincial drug regulatory departments have initiated emergency approval procedures for medical equipment.
。
.
启信宝数据显示，2020年1月1日以来，全国已经有170家企业新增与“口罩”相关的经营范围。
Since January 1, 2020, 170 companies across the country have added new business lines to their masks, according to Qixin Bao.
其中，“口罩生产”相关企业118家，“口罩销售”相关企业151家。
Among them, "mask production" related enterprises 118, "mask sales" related enterprises 151.
。
.
事实上，为生产防疫物资，我国多个产业集群区自政府层面采购口罩产线。
In fact, for the production of epidemic prevention materials, China's industrial clusters from the level of government procurement mask production line.
。
.
作为中国最大的外贸制鞋业和纺织品产业集群，莆田市在2月1日下发通知称，将支持企业加快生产口罩和防护服。
As China's largest foreign trade shoemaking and textile industry cluster, Putian City on February 1 issued a notice saying it would support enterprises to speed up the production of masks and protective clothing.
并明确鼓励企业通过扩产、转产、新建等方式加快生产口罩和防护服。
Enterprises are explicitly encouraged to speed up the production of masks and protective clothing through expansion, conversion and new construction.
并针对不同时间段购置设备安装到位并生产的企业给予补助。
And for different periods of time to purchase equipment installed in place and production enterprises to grant subsidies.
。
.
一些科技企业、车企也纷纷跨界，转产生产口罩，如：富士康、比亚迪、五菱。
Some technology enterprises, car enterprises also cross the border, to produce masks, such as: Foxconn, BYD, Wuling.
。
.
口罩机告急。
Mask machine is in emergency.
“我这边要口罩设备，越快交货越好。
"I need mask on this side. The sooner I deliver, the better.
”2月13日早上7点多，曾乐就在微信群里收到了求购口罩生产设备的信息。
At more than 7 a.m. on February 13, Mr. Zeng received a message from his microphone group about the equipment used to make masks.
曾乐从事的是材料行业，2月10日，他组建了一个口罩行业产业链交流微信群，希望能起到对接供需的作用。
Zeng Le is engaged in the material industry, February 10, he formed a mask industry chain to exchange micro-faith groups, hoping to play the role of docking supply and demand.
短短两天，群成员已达到230人。
In just two days, the group has reached 230 members.
。
.
在交流群里，商家可以发布产品信息，需家可以提出要求。
In the exchange group, the merchant may publish the product information, the home may request.
“我统计了一下，群成立这两天来，需家更多，都是求购设备、原材料的。
"I have counted the two days since the establishment of the group, need more home, are the purchase of equipment, raw materials.
”曾乐告诉经济观察报记者。
Mr Tsang told the Economic Observer.
。
.
“我有生产2000万只口罩的材料，就是没有设备。
"I have the materials to make 20 million masks, but I don't have the equipment.
”一位设备需求商说，他已经通过各方渠道打听设备信息了，但交货期都没法令他满意，都没有现货，最快商家交货期也要30天，部分企业交货期50天以上。
One equipment supplier said he had asked for information about the equipment from various sources, but the delivery dates were not satisfactory, he said, noting that none were available and that the quickest seller would take 30 days to deliver and some companies would have to deliver more than 50 days.
。
.
口罩生产设备商最近也很头疼。
Mask makers have also had headaches lately.
“我们没有存货了，现在接的单都要一个月后才能交付，这已经是全负荷状态下的速度了。
"We have run out of stock and now it takes a month for all the receipts to be delivered," he said.
”广东一家小型自动化设备生产商说。
"said a small manufacturer of automation equipment in Guangdong.
。
.
在曾乐给记者提供的一份平面口罩生产设备报价单中，一家广东的供应链管理公司明确表示：半自动平面口罩机交货期为30天，全自动平面一拖一口罩机以及全自动平面一拖二口罩机交货期为40天。
In a quotation from Zeng Le for a planar mask-making device, a Guangdong supply chain management company made it clear: semi-automatic planar mask machine delivery period is 30 days, fully automatic plane a mask machine and fully automatic plane a two-mask machine delivery period is 40 days.
此外，因为配套物料供应商工厂暂时未能复工，全自动机型2月份无法生产。
In addition, the fully automated aircraft could not be manufactured in February because the supporting material supplier factory was temporarily unable to resume work.
。
.
2月10日，南兴股份（002757.SZ）的一份公告将公司股票拉到涨停，这家家具生产设备企业表示，与东莞市汇通自动化设备科技有限公司（以下简称：汇通自动化）及其股东签署《战略合作框架协议》，利用公司在通用设备的技术研发、管理及生产优势，快速提升汇通自动化的口罩生产加工设备的产能。
On February 10, 2006, Nanxing shares (002757.SZ) drew shares of the company to trading and trading. The furniture manufacturing equipment company said it had signed a Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreement with Huitong Automation Technology Co., Ltd. and its shareholders to use its technological development, management and production advantages in general equipment to rapidly upgrade the production capacity of its automated mask production and processing equipment.
并约定一次性或分批次向汇通自动化提供口罩机100台。
And agreed to one-off or sub-batch to Huitong Automation to provide 100 masks.
。
.
汇通自动化官网信息显示，公司是专业超声波口罩机制造商，产品主要有：超音波医疗口罩制造设备、工业口罩制造设备等。
Huitong Automation, the company is a professional manufacturer of ultrasound masks, products include: ultrasonic mask manufacturing equipment, industrial mask manufacturing equipment and so on.
。
.
“口罩机告急的不止汇通自动化一家，在我们的微信群里，每天的求购信息中，有一半是跪求口罩机的。
"It's not just the Messenger Machine that is in a hurry. Half of the daily requests for information in our microphone group are for masks."
”曾乐说。
"said Zeng.
。
.
紧俏的口罩原料。
Tight mask material.
从1月下旬至今，前述纺织行业专家每天都要给口罩行业的企业打电话了解情况。
From late January to the present, the textile industry experts mentioned above every day to the mask industry enterprises to find out the situation.
在他的报告中，半个月前，口罩企业生产难题里，最明显突出的问题是人工、物流。
In his report, half a month ago, the most obvious problem in the production of masks business is labor, logistics.
如今，这一项变成了原料、设备紧缺。
Today, the project is starved of raw materials and equipment.
。
.
上述纺织行业专家提到，原材料中最重要的过滤材料熔喷无纺布尤为紧张。
The textile industry experts mentioned that the most important filter material in the melt-jet non-woven fabric is particularly tense.
“熔喷无纺布除了用在口罩上，也可以用在空调过滤、汽车隔音等。
"Spray non-woven cloth in addition to the mask, but can also be used for air-conditioning filter, car noise, and so on.
而且此前全国产量并不多，根据2018年的统计数据，全国熔喷无纺布产量不到10万吨。
And the previous national production is not much, according to 2018 statistics, the national melt-jet non-woven production of less than 100,000 tons.
一个口罩只需要用到几克熔喷，而新增一条熔喷生产线通常需要一年时间。
A mask requires only a few grams of spray, and a new production line usually takes a year.
”。
"
熔喷无纺布被业内称作医用外科口罩和N95口罩的“心脏”，是口罩中间的过滤层，具有很好的过滤性、屏蔽性、绝热性和吸油性，是生产口罩的重要原料。
The melt-blown nonwoven fabric, known in the industry as the "heart" of medical surgical masks and N95 masks, is a filter layer in the middle of the mask, with good filtration, shielding, insulation and oily properties, is an important raw material for the production of masks.
。
.
常见的医用口罩主要由三层无纺布组成，内层是普通无纺布，外层是做了防水处理的无纺布，主要用于隔绝患者喷出的液体，中间的过滤层就是经过驻极处理的聚丙烯熔喷布，可以把附着在体液上的病毒过滤掉。
Common medical masks consist of three layers of non-woven fabric, the inner layer is plain non-woven cloth, the outer layer is a waterproof non-woven fabric, mainly used to insulate the patient from the liquid, the middle filter layer is a stationary polypropylene spray that filters out viruses that attach to body fluids.
。
.
早在1月20日，金滤科技（惠州）有限公司（以下简称：金滤科技）负责人段静芳就预料到受疫情影响，高效熔喷无纺布的需求会激增。
As early as 20 January, Duan Jingfang, head of Jinzhou Filtration Technology Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Jinzhou"), anticipated a surge in demand for high-efficiency melt-blown non-woven fabrics due to the epidemic.
于是，便在朋友圈通知客户，春节期间可接单排期。
So, then in the circle of friends to inform customers, Spring Festival can take a single row.
令她出乎意料的是，熔喷无纺布订单的激增量超过了她的预想，原本打算正月初九复工的她，在正月初三便挨个给工人打电话通知紧急复工生产。
To her surprise, the increase in orders for the melt-blown nonwoven fabric exceeded her expectations, and she, who was due to resume work on early January 9, telephoned workers one by one on the third day of the first month to announce the resumption of emergency production.
。
.
虽已提前复工，两条产线24小时无间断运转，但每天只能产1吨的熔喷无纺布，这个量根本无法满足订单需求。
Despite the early resumption of work, the two production lines operate 24 hours a day, but can produce only 1 ton of fusible non-woven fabric per day, a quantity that simply cannot meet the demand for orders.
产量有限使段静芳不敢大规模接单，“不夸张的说，从现在来找们的订单来看，几乎是我们以前一年的量。
Limited production of Jing Fang do not dare large-scale orders, "it is not an exaggeration to say, from now on look for our orders, almost the previous year's volume.
但我现在只接到3月底，不敢大规模接，担心生产不出来承担违约责任。
But now I only received the end of March, afraid of large-scale response, worried that production will not bear the responsibility for breach of contract.
”。
"
生产熔喷布的主要原料聚丙烯并不缺，段静芳想到了扩产，但生产设备又成了问题。
The main raw material for producing melt-jet fabric is polypropylene, Duan Jingfang thought of expanding production, but production equipment has become a problem.
“生产熔喷无纺布的设备也很紧俏，我们原来的两台是进口的，但现在要购置并在短期内投入使用，就得买国内的设备，零部件齐全的情况下，设备最快也要三个月才能出来，现在是特殊时期，政府部门正在帮我们协调，还得再等等。
"The equipment for producing the melt-blown non-woven fabric is also very tight. We used to have two imported, but now we need to buy our own equipment to buy it and put it to use in the short term.
”。
"
在这个春天，东莞一家生产熔喷无纺布企业的负责人何黎，经历着与段静芳类似的故事——每天24小时无缝隙生产，订单量激增却不敢大规模接单，设备不够导致产量跟不上。
In the spring, Ho Li, the head of a Dongguan-based nonwoven manufacturing company, experienced a story similar to that of Duan Jingfang - 24-hour seamless production, orders surging but not enough equipment to keep up with production.
。
.
唯一不同的是，何黎不打算再购买设备。
The only difference is that he has no plans to buy more equipment.
“到国外购买，再回来组装，整个周期差不多要5个月，我就打消了这个念头。
"It takes me almost five months to go abroad and come back and assemble," he said.
”。
"
曾乐提供给记者的信息显示，稀缺的不仅仅是熔喷无纺布。
Zeng Le provides the information to the reporter to show, scarce is not just melt spray non-woven cloth.
耳带、鼻梁条这些辅助材料也是正是部分厂商求购的稀有物品。
Ear belt, nose girder these auxiliary materials are also the rare items that some manufacturers want to buy.
。
.
“辅助材料缺，还可以想办法解决。
"There is a shortage of supporting materials, and we can work it out.
有个业内的朋友建议厂家简化口罩的耳带，快速生产一种半成品，例如‘口罩卷筒’，口罩一张连接一张地卷着，每张可以单独撕下来。
An industry friend has suggested that manufacturers simplify the muzzle and quickly produce a semi-finished product, such as a mask reel, which can be torn off one piece at a time, one after the other.
另附带口罩的耳带或者皮筋之类的东西，由用户使用口罩时自己装上，这样还可以节省时间。
Ear bands or leather bands with masks can also save time by fitting them on when users use them.
”曾乐说。
"said Zeng.
。
.
统一调配。
Alignment.
据受访对象反映，口罩、关键性材料熔喷无纺布都已被各地政府调用，由各地政府统一协调。
Respondents to the survey said that masks, key materials melt-sprayed non-woven cloth have been mobilized by local governments, by the local government to coordinate.
。
.
但截至目前，暂无公开信息显示全国口罩是如何统一协调、分配的。
But so far, there is no public information on how the national mask is unified coordination, distribution.
。
.
早在1月27日，记者打电话给浙江嘉兴的一家口罩生产商时，对方回复称：“口罩已由政府管控，谢谢您的来电。
As early as January 27, a reporter called a mask manufacturer in Jiaxing, Zhejiang, the other side replied: "The mask has been regulated by the government, thank you for calling.
”。
"
2月12日，湖北仙桃一家口罩生产商在回复记者采访时表示：“政府非常关心与支持我们，叮嘱我们只生产，我们正在按政府要求抓紧生产，其他信息暂不方便说。
"The government is very concerned and supportive," Hubei Xiantao mask manufacturer told reporters on Feb. 12. "The government is very concerned about and supports us.
”。
"
“据我了解，目前东莞一共有4家有资质的企业，这4家的生产资源已经全部被政府接管，生产多少全部给政府，由政府统一协调。
"So far as I know, there are four qualified enterprises in Dongguan, and all of them have been taken over by the government.
”何黎说，他的公司生产两种熔喷无纺布，一种是生产N95口罩的材料，一种是生产bf199口罩的材料。
His company makes two types of fusible non-woven cloth, one for the production of N95 masks and the other for the production of bf199 masks, he said.
其中，生产bf199口罩的熔喷无纺布全部供给政府调配，而生产N95口罩的熔喷无纺布则有部分剩余共给其他客户，“因为政府对N95的需求没那么大。
The melt-sprayed nonwoven fabric used to make BF199 masks was fully supplied to the government, while the fusible non-woven fabric used to produce N95 masks was partially distributed to other customers, "because government demand for N95 was not so strong."
”。
"
（根据受访者要求，李娜、曾乐、何黎为化名）。
(At the request of the respondents, Li Na, Zeng Le, He Li are aliases).
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
于惠如经济观察报部门主任。
Director of Economic Observation Department.
深圳采访部主任。
Director, Shenzhen Media Department.
关注华南地区上市公司，重点关注新科技、新材料领域。
Focus on South China listed companies, focusing on new technology, new materials field.
线索请联系：yuhuiru@eeo.com.cn。
For further information, contact: yuhuiru @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、快讯 ｜ 湖北省新冠肺炎新增4823例   。
1, Quick news, new crown pneumonia in Hubei province added 4823 cases.
2、受疫情、春节双影响1月汽车销量下   。
2, affected by the epidemic, Spring Festival in January under the impact of auto sales.
3、特斯拉上演“魔幻”之旅，A股概念   。
3, Tesla staged a "magic" trip, A-share concept.
4、疫情下超七成车企开启复工：生产基   。
4, the epidemic situation over 70% of auto enterprises to restart: production base.
5、回不去的养老院   。
A nursing home that you can't go back to.
6、救援5G供应链： MWC停办，巨头提供   。
6, rescue 5G supply chain: MWC discontinued, giant to provide.
7、透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值   。
7. Look at the value of the property management industry through the epidemic situation.
8、新通联股东违规减持被罚 重组标的   。
(8) Unauthorized reduction of the shares of New Tonglian shareholders by penalty of reorganization.
9、面对面展业受阻 保险代理人线上寻   。
Face-to-face Disruptive Insurance Agents Online Search.
10、100多家新生军“跨界”  这些企业   。
More than 100 freshmen are "crossing the border" with these enterprises.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
