苏州工业园区企业复工记 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Suzhou Industrial Park enterprises resume work - Economic Observation Network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="叶心冉";。
Var auther = & quot; YES & quot;;
苏州工业园区企业复工记。
Suzhou Industrial Park enterprises resume work.
叶心冉2020-02-13 14:59。
Ye Xin Ran 2020-02-13 14: 59
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 叶心冉 上海报道2月12日，苏州工业园区经济发展委员会公布数据称，辖区目前“三必需一重要”（涉及保障公共事业运行必需、疫情防控必需、群众生活必需及其他涉及重要国计民生的相关领域）企业100%开工，规模以上企业95%已开工。
The Economic Development Committee of the Suzhou Industrial Park reported in Shanghai on Feb. 12 that 100 percent of enterprises at or above the required level of public utility operation, epidemic prevention and control, necessities for the public and other areas of vital importance to the livelihood of the people have been started.
。
.
据悉，截至目前，苏州工业园区顺利复工复产的企业已经超过1000家，各复工企业整体产能恢复50%左右，预计一周后可以逐步提升至80%。
So far, more than 1,000 enterprises have successfully resumed operations in the Suzhou Industrial Park, and the overall capacity of the enterprises has been restored by about 50 percent, and is expected to gradually increase to 80 percent in a week.
。
.
逐渐攀升的复工数据背后，是在坚持疫情防控和经济社会发展“两手抓”之间的平衡，也是企业、园区、社区、员工等等的多方协调和配合。
The gradual increase in the number of workers is behind the insistence on disease control and economic and social development "hand in hand" balance, but also enterprises, parks, communities, staff and other multi-party coordination and cooperation.
。
.
然而，如何做到？。
But how?
复工焦虑。
Resumption of work anxiety.
日前，清华、北大联合对995家中小企业受武汉新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情影响的情况及诉求进行了问卷调查，包括收入下降幅度、可维持的时间、成本支付压力、自身对策及对政府诉求等8个问题。
Recently, Tsinghua University and Peking University jointly conducted a questionnaire survey on 995 small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the new Wuhan coronavirus-infected pneumonia epidemic.
调查结果显示，受疫情影响，约30%的企业预计2020年营业收入下降幅度将超过50%，85.01%的企业账上现金余额最多维持3个月。
According to the survey results, some 30 per cent of enterprises are expected to experience a decline in operating income of more than 50 per cent in 2020, with 85.01 per cent of their corporate accounts maintaining cash balances for up to three months.
。
.
此次调研的995家企业，高科技企业占18.51%，零售服务业占17.1%，餐饮住宿娱乐及文化旅游占15.69%，加工制造业占14.19%，物流运输、批发贸易分别占比8.35%、8.15%。
Of the 995 enterprises surveyed, 18.51 percent were high-tech enterprises, 17.1 percent were retail services, 15.69 percent were catering, entertainment and cultural tourism, 14.19 percent were processing manufacturing, and 8.35 percent were logistics and wholesale trade, respectively 8.35 percent and 8.15 percent respectively.
。
.
在电子信息业、装备制造业、轻工业作为支柱产业的苏州，订单锐减、工厂停摆、刚性支出等这些可以想见的压力势必会催生出企业家的复工焦虑与诉求。
In Suzhou, where electronic information industry, equipment manufacturing industry and light industry are the mainstay industries, the pressure that can be imagined such as order drop, factory stop, rigid expenditure can produce entrepreneur's return to work anxiety and appeal.
苏州清华企业家商会创始会员周斌告诉记者，这其中还有其他更为深层次的原因。
Zhou Bin, a founding member of the Tsinghua Chamber of Entrepreneurs in Suzhou, told reporters there were other, deeper reasons.
。
.
周斌告诉记者，他所在的企业家商会群里，前段时间，很多上市公司高管表达出对复工的焦虑情绪。
Zhou Bin told reporters that in his group of chambers of commerce for entrepreneurs, some time ago, many listed company executives expressed anxiety about returning to work.
。
.
焦虑在于，一方面，政策通知、复工要求持续下发、更新，企业负责人把握不准，着手准备之时，在硬件软件条件上遇到困难。
Anxiety lies in, on the one hand, policy notice, resume work request continuously issue, update, enterprise responsible person grasps indeterminate, begin to prepare, in hardware software condition is difficult.
。
.
以苏州工业园区为例，为保障企业顺利、有序复工复产，苏州工业园区一手抓疫情防控，一手抓工作攻坚。
Taking Suzhou Industrial Park as an example, in order to ensure the smooth and orderly resumption of industrial production, the Suzhou Industrial Park, with one hand on disease prevention and control, and the other on hard work.
园区要求企业须提前3天提交疫情防控工作方案、复工方案和承诺书等相关材料申请复工备案。
The park requires enterprises to submit three days in advance of the disease prevention and control work plan, the resumption of work and other relevant materials such as the commitment to apply for resumption of records.
复工企业需做到组织机构到位、防控预案到位、资金物资到位、健康排查到位、人员管理到位、环境消毒到位、日常管理到位等七个方面。
Resumption of industrial enterprises should put in place organizational structure, prevention and control plan in place, funds and materials in place, health screening in place, personnel management in place, environmental disinfection in place, day-to-day management in place.
其中，“物资到位”要求口罩、温度计、消毒药械等储备不少于一周用量，并保证后续能够持续供应。
Among them, "material in place" requires no less than a week's supply of masks, thermometers, antidotes and so on, and ensure a continuous supply.
受理企业提前复工申请，园区采用“100%现场审核+突击抽查”方式开展验收，40个评估验收组每天分赴数百家企业开展现场审核。
The park adopts the method of "100% on-site audit + surprise spot check" for acceptance, and 40 evaluation and inspection teams go to hundreds of enterprises every day to conduct on-site audit.
。
.
但这其中有一定的困难所在。
But there are some difficulties.
周斌告诉记者，很多企业的员工出不去，回不来，复工备案的准备材料公司缺乏专人对接。
Zhou Bin told reporters that many enterprise employees can not get out, can not go back to work the preparation of the record of the company lack of personnel docking.
另一方面，国内生产的口罩都归国家卫生部门统一调度。
On the other hand, the national production of masks are under the unified control of the national health department.
。
.
这一难题，济中节能技术（苏州）有限公司的副总经理许力也遇到了。
This difficult problem, Jizhong energy-saving technology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. Deputy General Manager Xu Li also encountered.
开工在即，口罩难寻。
Masks are hard to find as soon as work begins.
“这个时候就各显神通了。
This is the time to show off.
”许力表示，自己匆忙联系了在国外的朋友，请其帮忙购买口罩。
Xu said he hastily contacted friends abroad to help him buy masks.
。
.
不过，记者注意到，苏州工业园区成立了防控物资协调小组、物流运输协调小组、人员进出协调小组解决企业在相关方面遇到的困难。
However, the reporter noted that the Suzhou Industrial Park has set up a coordination group on prevention and control materials, a coordination group on logistics transportation and a coordination group on personnel entry and exit to resolve difficulties encountered by enterprises in this regard.
其中，防控物资协调小组的主要职责是负责收集登记园区企业疫情防控物资需求，征集物资购买渠道，按照优先民生保障类企业、已复工企业的原则对接供需。
Among them, the main responsibilities of the coordination group are responsible for collecting and registering the epidemic prevention and control material needs of enterprises in the park, collecting material purchase channels, and docking supply and demand according to the principle of priority livelihood security enterprises and reactivated enterprises.
。
.
焦虑的另一方面在于，上下游供应商尚未开工，生产链条便无法运转。
Another aspect of anxiety is that the production chain cannot function before upstream and downstream suppliers have started.
许力告诉记者，其公司的一位制造业客户告诉他，即使开工也没用，没有配套零部件、配套生产资料。
Xu told reporters that one of his company's manufacturing customers told him that it was useless even to start work, with no spare parts and supporting production materials.
“上下游的配套供应、物流都受到了比较大的影响。
"Both upstream and downstream supply and logistics have been greatly affected.
”周斌举例，如果供应商的一张塑料包装衬垫企业无法同步复工，那么产业链就会跳闸。
Zhou Bin, for example, if a supplier of plastic packaging liner cannot synchronize the resumption of work, then the industrial chain will trip.
。
.
产业链跳闸了以后呢？这是更为深层次的焦虑原因。
What about the industrial chain after the trip? This is a deeper cause of anxiety.
周斌表示，时间越久，供应链上企业要么被替换，要么供应链瘫痪。
Over time, Mr. Zhou says, companies in the supply chain will either be replaced or supply chains will collapse.
在周斌看来，苏州的工业企业大多扮演的是供应链配套者、嵌入者的角色。
In Zhou Bin's view, the Suzhou industrial enterprises mostly play the role of supply chain supporting, embedding.
产业链就像一个网状结构，经过这么多年的编织，网已经越来越密，企业细胞越来越小，如果出现破洞，企业很快就会从破洞里掉下去，随之被取代。
Industrial chain is like a network structure, after so many years of knitting, the network has become more and more dense, enterprise cells become smaller and smaller, if holes appear, enterprises will soon fall out of holes and be replaced.
周斌表示，全球来讲，独一无二的技术或产品本身也不多，“企业家着急的是我们这张网必须保持高密度。
Zhou said that, globally, the unique technology or product itself is not much, "the entrepreneur is anxious that our network must remain high density."
”。
"
发出同样观点的亦有南山工业书院创始人、北京联讯动力咨询公司总经理林雪萍，其在《战疫情！中国制造的生死时速 》一文中表示，中国的供应链是全球嵌入式，如果这一块松动，而让全球产生备用基地，这一损伤将是不可恢复的。
Similar views were expressed by Lin Xueping, founder of Nanshan Industrial College and General Manager of Beijing-based Power Consulting, who said in The Battle Outbreak! The Life and Death of Made in China that China's supply chain is a global embedded system, and the damage would be irreversible if it were allowed to create a global reserve base.
。
.
“我的员工回不来”。
"My staff can't get back."
需要协调的还有人员进出的问题。
The issue of access also needs to be coordinated.
。
.
“公司要求10号复工，且外来人员需要隔离7-14天。
"The company asked for the 10th to resume work and the outsiders had to be quarantined for 7-14 days.
但是，我租住的小区不让返苏人员进入，我不敢回去，可是公司将未按期到岗的员工做请假处理扣除工资。
However, I rented a small area not to allow Soviet personnel to enter, I dare not go back, but the company will not be scheduled to the staff to do leave processing deducted wages.
”小李这两天的心情跌宕起伏，原因在于其收到的“一天三变”的物业管家通知。
Xiao Li's mood in the past two days has fluctuated because of the "three-change-a-day" notice it received from housekeepers.
一开始通知2月9日之前不允许返苏人员进入，后来改为在房间自觉隔离7天，房间内居住两人的，留苏一人，新返苏者不可以一同居住再后来变为返苏住户自行选择宾馆隔离7天。
Returnees were initially advised not to enter the country until 9 February, but were later placed in self-imposed isolation in their rooms for seven days. If the rooms were occupied by two persons, only one person remained in Suzhou.
。
.
小李租住的小区位于苏中工业园区钟园路1号青年公社，隶属于东沙湖社区，据介绍里面有四家公寓：贝客、A+、冠寓、红璞，外来务工人员占绝大多数。
Xiao Li's rented community is located in Zhongyuan Road, 1 Zhongyuan Road, a Soviet industrial park, which belongs to the Dongsha Lake community. It is said that there are four apartments: Beike, A +, Guan Pu and HongPu, with the overwhelming majority of migrant workers.
据东湖区社工委的统计，青年公社所在青年汇社区常住人口7000余人，春节在苏人员约3700名。
According to statistics from the Eastern Lake District Social Work Commission, there are more than 7,000 permanent residents in the youth exchange community where the commune is located, and about 3,700 people live in the Soviet Union during the Spring Festival.
。
.
记者电话询问了东沙湖社工委负责新闻宣传的工作人员，其告诉记者，并非是租客认为的“一刀切”，社区管控是工业园区做出的统一规定，要求留苏人员与返苏人员进行分层分栋管理，如果达不到此种隔离要求，要将返苏人员送到园区统一安排的三个观察点进行隔离，隔离住宿费用自理。
The reporter called the staff of Dongsha Lake Bureau, who is in charge of public information, and told reporters that community control is not a "one-size-fits-all" as perceived by tenants. Community control is a uniform regulation of industrial parks that require people to be separated from returning Soviet personnel at three centrally arranged observation points in the park.
。
.
记者询问，青年汇社区人员密度大，分层分栋管理是否难以实施？工作人员告诉记者，正是因为青年汇社区人员密度大，所以要通过这样的方式来规避风险。
Reporter asked the youth exchange community density, stratified management is difficult to implement? Staff told reporters precisely because of the density of youth exchange community, so to avoid risk.
记者同时询问了是否有社区、物业执行的时候，自主增加多余条件，阻碍返苏人员的进入。
Reporters also asked whether there is a community, property implementation, increased the redundant conditions on their own, impeding the entry of Soviet personnel.
该工作人员回复，此前，疫情较为严重的时期，会有这样的情况，但现在采取了统一的规定。
The staff member responded that this had previously been the case during the more severe period of the epidemic, but that uniform provisions were now in place.
。
.
小李提供给记者的物业通知显示，持《复工证明》的员工，提交个人承诺书，居委会开具隔离期满《情况说明》，获得《园区通行证》，可以赴企业复工并且正常出入小区。
The property notice provided by Xiao Li shows that employees holding the Return of Work Certificate submit a personal undertaking, that the neighborhood committee issues an information note on the expiry of the quarantine period, obtains a "park pass," can go back to work at the enterprise and has regular access to the community.
。
.
修炼内功 产业优化。
Optimization of Internal Work Industry.
作为产业链的配套企业，虽然有被后来者替代的风险，但是不至于形成崩盘式的影响。
As a supporting enterprise of industrial chain, although there is the risk of being replaced by the later, but will not form a crash-like impact.
周斌认为，这也正是产业优化的过程。
Zhou Bin believes that this is precisely the process of industrial optimization.
。
.
延期复工以及复工期间遇到的阻碍，在周斌看来，此种压力会过滤掉一些产品竞争力、企业竞争力缺乏，摇摇欲坠的企业。
Delays in resuming work, as well as obstacles encountered during the resumption of work, will, in Zhou's view, filter out companies that are competitive and lack competitiveness.
“这种外部的危机也是一种滤网，会将产业链上的不合格、不健康的企业淘汰掉。
"This external crisis is also a filter, will be the industrial chain of unqualified, unhealthy enterprises to eliminate.
”。
"
根据苏州工业园区2月12日统计的数据显示，辖区目前规上企业95%已开工。
According to the February 12 statistics of the Suzhou Industrial Park, 95 percent of enterprises in the jurisdiction have started construction.
周斌告诉记者，苏州工业园区大多数的规模企业春节期间并未停产，所以本身就在开工数据里。
Zhou Bin told reporters that the Suzhou Industrial Park most of the scale of enterprises during the Spring Festival did not stop production, so it is in the start-up data.
另外，像园区的一些外资企业，其对于公共危机，有一套完整、成熟的调度资源应急方案。
In addition, like some foreign-owned enterprises in the park, they have a complete and mature emergency plan of dispatching resources for public crisis.
。
.
一生产电路板的企业负责人告诉记者，并没有会被挤出供应链之外的担心，一方面，公司春节保留了部分产能，另一方面，公司的客户都是合作长达十年之久的粘性客户。
On the one hand, the company retains some of its production capacity for the Spring Festival, and on the other hand, its customers are sticky customers who have been working together for a decade.
。
.
民创控股首席经济官、研究院院长周荣华在接受经济观察报采访时表示，苏州的产业结构以第二产业为主，产业结构由中低端向中高端持续提升，延迟复工短期内将对苏州的服务业、劳动密集型工业制造业产生冲击，但对于自动化程度高、创新能力强、供应链完善的企业来说，受冲击的程度将相对可控。
In an interview with the Economic Observer, Zhou Ronghua, chief economic officer and dean of the institute, said Suzhou's industrial structure was dominated by the secondary industry, with the industry structure moving from the lower to the middle and high end.
目前来看，政策层面已经出台融资支持、财政补贴等帮助企业渡过难关，预计自身具备核心竞争力的企业将能够经受考验，并将在信息化管理、生产自动化等方面持续优化经营模式。
At present, at the policy level, financing support, financial subsidies and other measures have been put in place to help enterprises tide over difficulties. It is expected that enterprises with core competitiveness will be able to withstand the test and will continue to optimize their business models in terms of information management and production automation.
。
.
许力也看到了问题更为积极的一面。
Xu Li also saw a more positive side to the problem.
许力所在的济中节能技术（苏州）有限公司主要通过互联网进行远程、数字化的能源管理，目标就是要实现设备运行状态的无人化监控，通过后台的专家规则库，利用模型分析，为用户提供分析报告，预警提示。
Xu Li's Ji Zhong Energy Saving Technology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. mainly manages energy resources remotely and digitally through the Internet. The goal is to realize the unmanned monitoring of the running state of the equipment.
。
.
许力表示，在这期间，对其企业而言，可以静下心来，把所有的资源、精力聚焦在内部的技术研判、研发方向、架构调整上，将之前疲于应对的项目进行更进一步的优化。
During that time, he said, his company could calm down and focus all its resources and energy on in-house technology research, research and development direction, and structural adjustments, further optimizing projects that had previously been overstretched.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
叶心冉经济观察报记者。
Ye Xin Ran Economic Observer reporter.
华东新闻中心助理记者。
Assistant journalist, East China Information Centre.
关注华东地区上市公司，重点在消费、制造领域，善于捕捉热点，追踪有趣之事。
Focus on East China listed companies, focus on consumption, manufacturing, good at catching hot spots, tracking interesting things.
。
.
新闻线索联系邮箱：yexinran@eeo.com.cn。
News leads contact mailbox: yexinran @ eeo.com.cn.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、苏州工业园区企业复工记   。
Record of Resumption of Work of Suzhou Industrial Park Enterprises.
2、复工进行时 温州企业等候返岗“发   。
When the work resumes, Wenzhou enterprises are waiting to return to work.
3、疫情下的问候：你上网课了吗   。
Greetings Under the Epidemic Situation Have you had any Internet classes yet
4、远程办公被加速 写字楼市场短期承   。
Telecommuting has been promoted as a short-term commitment to the office market.
5、钢厂电厂煤炭频频告急 山东能源集   。
Steel plant coal frequency urgent Shandong energy set.
6、企业复工：订单足够，缺的是人   。
The Company Resumes Work: Orders are sufficient; what is lacking is people.
7、车载急救包、空气净化系统受追捧     。
7, vehicle-borne first aid kit, air purification system is sought after.
8、在线生鲜催热“共享员工”，行业巨   。
8, online fresh promote hot "shared staff," the industry is huge.
9、教育行业的疫情防控：另一场“大考   。
9. Prevention and control of disease in the education sector: another "big test."
10、快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常   。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
