珠三角打响防“疫”保卫战 街坊村民自发做志愿者测体温设路障 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Pearl River Delta to fight "epidemic" defense neighborhood villagers spontaneous volunteers set up roadblocks - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="老盈盈";。
Var auther = & quot; Old Ying & quot;;
珠三角打响防“疫”保卫战 街坊村民自发做志愿者测体温设路障。
Pearl River Delta to fight against "epidemic" defensive neighborhood villagers volunteered to set up a barricade temperature measurement.
老盈盈2020-02-13 16:35。
Old Ying Ying 2020-02-13 16: 35.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 老盈盈廖阿姨是广州的一位志愿者，她从大年初二开始在越秀区的某个公交站点驻守，2月8日起则转到了小区。
Auntie Yingying Liao, a reporter for the Economic Watch network, a volunteer from Guangzhou, has been stationed at a bus stop in Yuexiu District since February 8.
她和她读中学的女儿每天早上七点从两公里外的家里到越秀某小区值班量体温，每天站岗六个小时，元宵节最忙的时候几乎从早做到晚。
She and her daughter in high school every morning from two kilometers away from home to Yuexiu a small area on duty to take temperature, six hours a day, the peak of Lantern Festival almost from early to late.
。
.
在广东各地区，从小区、公园、公交站点、村庄路口等等，都有街坊、村民放弃了春节假期，自发做志愿者，替进出居民量体温、提醒居民戴口罩、设置路障等。
In various areas of Guangdong, from small areas, parks, bus stops, village intersections, etc. there are neighborhoods and villagers who give up Spring Festival, volunteer spontaneously, measure the temperature of residents, remind residents to wear masks, set up roadblocks, etc.
。
.
新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情来袭，珠三角各地从政府、街道办居委会到居民都打响了一场场没有硝烟的防“疫”战争。
The new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, the Pearl River Delta from the government, the neighborhood committee to the residents have opened a battle without the smoke of the epidemic.
。
.
测温志愿者：从早做到晚。
Temperature Volunteers: From early to late.
“今天，这个小区有个居民从湖南开车带了个保姆回来，我们测了体温是正常的，就让他们做了登记，如果后续有情况街道办或者居委会会跟进。
"Today, a resident of this neighborhood drove back from Hunan with a babysitter. We took a temperature check and had them registered. If there was any follow-up, the neighborhood office or neighborhood committee would follow up.
”廖阿姨说道。
"said Aunt Liao.
。
.
2月3日，广州越秀区应元路三眼井路口设岗量体温。
February 3, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou Yingyuan Road, Sanyangjing junction set up to measure body temperature.
廖阿姨从2月8日开始驻守，她并不是该小区住户，最近几天她和她读中学的女儿每天早上七点从两公里外的家里到小区值班。
Aunt Liao, who has been stationed since February 8, is not a resident of the neighborhood, and in recent days she and her high school daughter have been on duty from their home, two kilometers away, to the neighborhood at seven every morning.
据她介绍，值班是两班制，一班是从早上七点半到中午一点，另外一班是从中午一点到晚上七点，每次轮班设两名志愿者，七点过后由街道办派出所的保安值班。
There were two shifts on duty, one from 7: 30 a.m. to 1: 00 noon, the other from 1: 00 noon to 7: 00 p.m., two volunteers on each shift, after seven o'clock by the street police station security guard on duty.
。
.
他们的工作内容是：提醒出入人员佩戴口罩进出小区；对进出人员进行体温检测，发现体温高于37.3摄氏度，立即报告；还有谢绝外来人员和车辆入内，如有特殊情况要进行登记；对不配合工作、不服从测量体温者及突发事件，立即报派出所。
They are responsible for alerting people to wear masks in and out of the neighbourhood, conducting temperature checks of people entering and leaving the premises and finding that their body temperature is above 37.3 degrees Celsius, and denying entry to outsiders and vehicles, registering in special cases, and immediately reporting to police stations for non-cooperation, non-compliance with temperature measurements and emergencies.
。
.
“这条路很多的出口都封掉了，这个出口最靠近超市和小吃店，每天进出的人流非常大，特别是元宵节那天，从早做到晚，根本没停过。
This exit is closest to supermarkets and snack bars and there is a lot of traffic going in and out every day, especially on Lantern Festival, from early to late.
”廖阿姨说。
"said Aunt Liao.
。
.
在这四天里，她也遇到过有疑似发烧的个案。
During these four days, she also encountered suspected cases of fever.
那是一个开车的人，在车内测体温到了37.5摄氏度，已经高于规定温度。
It was a driver with a temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius, which was already above the required temperature.
但是想着有可能是车内温度比室外高，他在车内呆的时间太久，导致体温出现误差，于是她让这位开车的人从车上下来，稍作休息重新测量后体温恢复正常。
But thinking it was possible that the car was hotter than it was outside and that he had stayed too long in the car, causing a temperature error, she told the motorist to get out of the car, take a break and take a warm retake.
。
.
据了解，这些志愿者都是广州团委属下公益组织的成员，他们大都是抱着为这份疫情出一份力的心态来做志愿者。
It is understood that these volunteers are members of Guangzhou League Committee under the public welfare organizations, they are mostly with the idea of contributing to the epidemic to do volunteers.
有的住在很远的地方，每天坐四十分钟公交来到值班小区；有的年初二已经上岗在别的地方蹲点，春节都没有休息，廖阿姨的搭档小刘除了小区侧温之外，还给小区的居民逐个打电话，询问过去一个月的出行以及身体情况。
Some live far away, take a 40-minute bus to the community on duty; some New Year's Day has been posted in other places, the Spring Festival did not rest, Aunt Liao's partner Xiao Liu in addition to the side temperature, but also the residents of the small residential area to inquire about the past month's trips and physical conditions.
。
.
廖阿姨在做小区测温志愿者前几天，在应元路附近的公交站驻点做志愿者，提醒乘客戴口罩、司机测温，如果遇到发烧的人士需要询问其是否从湖北回来、是否有聚会，并建议到就近医院检查就诊，而且需要第一时间与街道办联系。
Auntie Liao volunteers a few days ago, in the vicinity of Yingyuan Road bus stop volunteers, to remind passengers wearing masks, driver temperature, if they need to ask whether they return from Hubei, whether there is a party, and to the nearest hospital, and need to contact the street office immediately.
她曾经遇到一个小伙子，因为测温超过37度，三辆车都不让上；廖阿姨询问后得知他最近没有去过湖北，也没有任何聚会，她估计他可能在家呆久了有点感冒，指引他立刻去医院就诊。
When Aunt Liao asked him if he had not been to Hubei recently, nor had any party, she figured he might have stayed at home for a long time with a cold and directed him to the hospital immediately.
。
.
片区防“疫”保卫战。
The area was defended against the plague.
在应元路这个片区的街道里，开业的餐饮店和药房均在店面外部贴着“不戴口罩不得入内”的贴纸，各种预防告示也贴满小区和大街，提醒居民避免前往人群密集场所、注意个人卫生、食物煮透煮熟等等，并告知出租屋主和承租人，承租人返穗后应马上告知街道办，重点疫区人员从抵穗之日起14天内自我隔离观察，不得外出；重点疫区未返穗承租人不得返穗。
In the streets of Yingyuan Road, restaurants and pharmacies have put "no masks on" stickers on the outside of the storefront, and various precautionary notices have been posted around the area and streets to warn tenants to avoid going to crowded places, personal hygiene, cooking, etc.
。
.
在应元路附近的越秀公园，早在一月底也打响了疫情防御的保卫战，将对涉及游客亲密接触的游乐和健身设施进行封闭，并告知未戴口罩的游客禁止进园、凡体温37.1摄氏度以上干咳等症状的游客谢绝入园等等。
In Yuexiu Park, near Yingyuan Road, defense against the epidemic began as early as the end of January, with the closure of recreational and fitness facilities involving close contact with tourists, and the denial of entry to visitors not wearing masks, visitors with dry cough with temperatures above 37.1 degrees Celsius, etc.
落户在越秀山公园的越秀好人志愿服务中心负责人对记者表示，他们和公园管理处联动，设置了专门发烧隔离室，一但发现疑似病例马上进行隔离并报告街道办。
The director of the Yuexiu Good People Volunteer Service, based in Yuexiu Mountain Park, told reporters they were working with the park authorities to set up a special fever isolation room to isolate suspected cases and report them to the street office.
。
.
据了解，志愿者服务中心每天派出两名志愿者与公园管理处的工作人员一道在公园门口站岗测体温，从早上9点到下午五点值班，以轮岗制形式进行，每位测量者值班二十几分钟就会接替换人。
The volunteer service center sends two volunteers a day to work with park officials at the park gate to take temperature measurements from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on a rotating basis, with each surveyor replacing him or her after twenty minutes of duty.
按照上述负责人的说法这种轮岗制工作时间不长，有利于志愿者的身体健康，他们还会煲姜茶和凉茶给志愿者们，因为体会到他们的不易。
The volunteers were also given ginger tea and herbal teas because they knew they would not be able to work long enough to keep them healthy.
。
.
现在他们面临最大的问题是口罩稀缺，有时靠街道办提供，但街道口罩也不够数，没法配给志愿者。
The biggest problem they face now is the scarcity of masks, sometimes provided by street offices, but the number of street masks is insufficient to allow volunteers.
“今天有个志愿者跟我说，他们小区现在封闭式管理，物业知道他是出来做志愿者，就不让他出小区门了，说他每天接触大量的人，万一把病毒带进小区了怎么办，所以他明天就来不了了，大家都是自愿出来做志愿者的，图个啥呢？”上述负责人对记者表示。
"Today, a volunteer told me that his neighborhood was now under close management. The property knew he was coming out as a volunteer and would not let him out of the neighborhood. He said he was in contact with a large number of people every day.
。
.
越秀区应元路片区的防“疫”战只是广州众多街道片区的缩影。
Yuexiu District Yingyuan Road area of the "epidemic" battle is just a microcosm of Guangzhou's many streets.
2月12日，广州市委政法委副书记岳向阳在疫情存续期间社会秩序保障工作新闻通气会上表示，1月24日至2月12日，全市共发动广州街坊群防共治力量170余万人次参与疫情防控（平均每天8万余人次），全市各区“广州街坊”群防共治志愿者放弃春节假期，佩戴口罩，穿上马甲，带上袖章，逆行而上，深入各社区、重要路段、重要部位支援协助开展疫情防控工作。
From January 24 to February 12, more than 1.7 million people from all over the city took part in the prevention and control of the epidemic (an average of more than 80,000 people per day).
。
.
此外，广州市11区已全部暂停餐饮单位堂食服务，广州将督促网络餐饮服务第三方平台落实送餐人员的晨检及健康管理制度，推行疫情期间“无接触配送”，避免消费者与配送人员面对面取餐。
In addition, Guangzhou has suspended all catering units catering service in Area 11. Guangzhou will urge the third-party platform of network catering service to implement the morning inspection and health management system for food delivery personnel, promote "no contact distribution" during the epidemic period, and avoid the face-to-face collection of meals by consumers and distributors.
。
.
珠三角打响无硝烟战争。
Pearl River Delta smoke-free war.
不仅是广州，珠三角各地一场场无硝烟的战争也悄然打响。
Not only Guangzhou, but also around the Pearl River Delta, a smoke-free war quietly started.
陈昊是惠州市交通集团的一名员工，春节以来，惠州各省道、高速路口都设联合检疫站查车查体温，他也被派到了一线与卫生和交警等部门一起执行任务。
Chen Hao is an employee of Huizhou Transport Group, Huizhou Province Road, high-speed junction since the Spring Festival, the joint quarantine stations are set up to check temperature, he was sent to the frontline with the health and traffic police and other departments.
。
.
在各联合检疫站点，由当班交警做组长，由组长分配工作任务：交警负责拦车检查车辆证件、公安检查身份证、医护测体温、交通负责登记检查车辆人员信息，配合医务测体温。
At each joint quarantine station, the traffic police on duty shall be the leader, and the work shall be assigned by the team leader: the traffic police shall be responsible for stopping and inspecting vehicle certificates, public security identity cards, medical temperature taking, traffic check-up of vehicle personnel information, and medical temperature control.
对湖北、温州区域返回的车辆、人员实行登记隔离，一旦发现其他地区人员异常通知当地隔离部门或120接收；对需隔离人员，由镇办负责押送。
Vehicles and personnel returned to Hubei and Wenzhou regions shall be registered and segregated, and when personnel from other areas are found to have unnaturally notified the local isolation departments or received them, the township offices shall be responsible for the escort of the persons to be isolated.
陈昊出勤多天，发现有发烧的可疑病例还挺多的，特别是从湖北地区回来的人。
Chen Hao attendance many days, found that there are a number of suspected cases of fever, especially from Hubei people back.
。
.
据惠州日报报道，目前惠州市的“两站一场”，以及所有71个高速公路出入口、31个国省道出入口均设置了24小时联合检疫站，而在惠州火车站，车站出入口均设置了人体自动测温系统，出站口还设有一间留观室，往来旅客也需要佩戴着口罩配合测温工作。
Huizhou Daily reported that the city now has 24-hour joint quarantine stations for "two stops" and all 71 expressway entrances and exits and entrances to 31 national highways, while in Huizhou railway station, automatic human body temperature measurement system is installed at the entrance and exit of the station.
。
.
在惠州的小区和村庄，现阶段实行封闭式管理。
In Huizhou small areas and villages, the current stage of implementation of closed management.
陈珊感觉她所在的小区行动很快，在封村封小区文件下来之前，物业就已经封闭了小区，外人以及外卖一律不能进，外卖统一到保安处领取；在小区内，物业每天都有采取喷洒消毒水消毒。
Chen felt her neighborhood was moving fast. Before the documents from the village were sealed, properties had been sealed off. Outsiders and take-out were not allowed in and were collected at the security office. In the small area, property was sprayed daily with disinfectant.
不仅在小区，在惠州的农村地区也采取了行动。
Action has also been taken not only in the small districts but also in the rural areas of Huizhou.
陈珊她先生的乡下就是村民自发封路封村的，例如设置入村主路障碍，不允许外来人外来车辆进入等等。
Chen Shan her husband's countryside is the villagers spontaneously sealed off the village, such as set up the main road barriers, do not allow foreign vehicles to enter, and so on.
。
.
随着各地对疫情防控的重视，居民的防疫意识也在逐步加强。
With the local attention to disease prevention and control, the residents of epidemic prevention awareness is also gradually strengthening.
冯伟从过年到现在都在珠海，还没有回深圳上班。
Feng Wei has been in Zhuhai since the New Year and hasn't returned to work in Shenzhen.
截止2月12日24时，珠海累计确诊病例89例，在全省“排名”第三，仅次于深圳广州。
As of Feb. 12, 2400, Zhuhai cumulative confirmed cases of 89 cases, in the province "ranked" third, after Shenzhen Guangzhou.
冯伟家隔壁栋出现了一例确认病例，这几天早上附近都有喷洒消毒水，对确诊病例该栋楼进行了封闭隔离，但由于离的太近，他们全家都害怕，除了买菜之外，纷纷减少了出外的频次。
A confirmed case occurred in the building next door to the Feng family, where the building had been sealed off with disinfectant sprays in the early morning hours, but the family was too close to the building to be afraid and went out less often than they had been buying.
。
.
从广东省的层面，紧急立法为战“疫”提供硬核保障。
From the level of Guangdong Province, emergency legislation provides hard nuclear protection against the plague.
《广东省人民代表大会常务委员会关于依法防控新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定》是该省人大常委会在新冠肺炎疫情防控时期作出的一项特别性决定，旨在为打好疫情防控阻击战提供应急、及时、有效的法治支撑。
The Decision of the Standing Committee of the Guangdong Provincial People's Congress on Preventing and Controlling the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Effectively Safeguarding People's Lives, Health and Safety is a special decision made by the Standing Committee of the Guangdong Provincial People's Congress in the period of prevention and control of New Coronavirus pneumonia.
此外，广东省还专门成立农村疫情防控专班，组织协调13个省直部门，构筑联防联控严密防线，要求上门每户家庭、每栋出租屋，开展人员排查；在各村庄、小区设立进出关口；全面暂停一切公众聚集活动。
In addition, Guangdong Province has set up special classes for the prevention and control of diseases in rural areas, and coordinated 13 provincial and straight-line departments to build a tight joint defence line, requiring house-to-house and rent-house searches; set up access points in villages and microregions; and suspend all public gatherings altogether.
。
.
截至2月12日24时，全省累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例1241例。
As of 2400 hours February 12, the province reported a cumulative total of 1241 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia.
累计报告确诊病例中，深圳市391例、广州市327例、珠海市89例、佛山市81例、东莞市70例、中山市64例、惠州市55例、汕头市25例、江门市22例、湛江市21例、肇庆市16例、阳江市13例、梅州市13例、茂名市13例、清远市12例、揭阳市8例、韶关市8例、汕尾市5例、潮州市5例、河源市3例。
Of the total number of confirmed cases reported, 391 were in Shenzhen, 327 in Guangzhou, 89 in Zhuhai, 70 in Foshan, 64 in Zhongshan, 55 in Huizhou, 25 in Shantou, 22 in Zhanjiang, 16 in Zhaoqing, 13 in Yangjiang, 13 in Maoming, 8 in Shaoyang, 5 in Shaoguan, 5 in Chaozhou and 3 in Heyuan.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
老盈盈经济观察报部门主任。
Head of Department, Old Ying Ying Economic Observer.
广州采访部主任。
Director, Guangzhou Media Department.
关注华南金融机构、资本市场及区域内重大新闻事件报道。
Focus on South China financial institutions, capital markets and regional coverage of major news events.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、珠三角打响防“疫”保卫战 街坊村   。
1, the Pearl River Delta to fight against the "epidemic" defensive Kaifang village.
2、环境部：全国涉疫医疗废物实现“日   。
2, Ministry of Environment: National epidemic medical waste realization "day."
3、一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉   。
3, a "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan.
4、在家备考的高三学生，正在经历一场   。
The junior high school students preparing for the exam are going through a test.
5、苹果客商的“生意经”：企业开始复   。
Apple merchants "business": the enterprise began to recover.
6、破解新冠肺炎确诊困局 新型试剂盒   。
6. Decoding the new kit for diagnosing the complications of New Crown Pneumonia.
7、一位中小企业主的复工守望：一边是   。
7, a small and medium-sized business owners back on guard: one side is.
8、口罩供与需：一场没有硝烟的战争   。
Mask Supply and Demand: A War Without Smoke.
9、快讯 | 湖北：省内各类企业不早于2   。
Hubei: Not earlier than 2 for all kinds of enterprises in the province.
10、一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%   。
10. First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56%.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
