​我在金银潭重症监护室。
I'm in Gold and Silver Pool Intensive Care Unit.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
走进武汉金银潭医院，第一感觉是安静。
Walking into Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital, the first feeling is quiet.
与在武汉闹市区其他综合类的三甲医院不同，这家传染病专科医院，楼与楼之间隔得很远，种了好多树，即使在冬季也是郁郁葱葱。
Unlike the other three-A hospitals in downtown Wuhan, the hospital specializes in infectious diseases, built far away from the buildings and planted many trees, which are lush even in winter.
收治了几百位新型冠状病毒肺炎患者的住院楼，门窗紧闭，站在楼下几乎听不到人声。
Hundreds of inpatients with the new coronavirus pneumonia were admitted to the hospital, their doors and windows closed, and they could hardly be heard standing downstairs.
因为患者不需家属陪同，路上也没人来往走动。
No one moved in or out of the road because the patients were not accompanied by their families.
但安静之下是持续不断的战争，在住院部南楼五到七层的重症病房里，是不断增加的给氧量，一天要发生许多次的抢救，和医护们对被感染的恐惧。
But the quiet was a constant war, a constant increase in oxygen delivery in the intensive care unit on the fifth to seventh floor of the south wing of the inpatient department, many rescues a day, and the fear of infection among the medical staff.
在武汉的疫情中，金银潭医院作为第一批定点收治病人的医院，是战斗的第一现场。
In Wuhan, the gold and silver pool hospital, as the first designated hospital for patients, is the first scene of the battle.
从1月下旬至今，已经有来自上海、北京、陆军军医大学和湖南等地的医疗队进入金银潭医院，支援病人的医疗和护理工作。
Since late January, medical teams from Shanghai, Beijing, the Army Medical University and Hunan have entered the gold and silver pool hospital to support the medical and nursing work of patients.
在重症病房，来自各地的医护们一起工作。
In the intensive care unit, doctors and nurses from all over the world work together.
1月27日，中南大学湘雅医院派出第一批医疗队，这其中有5位来自重症医学科的护士，他们在金银潭医院的重症监护室里帮助患者进行「持续血液净化治疗」。
On January 27, the first medical teams were dispatched from Xiangya Hospital, Zhongnan University. Among them were five nurses from the intensive care unit of Jinan Tam Hospital who helped patients undergo "continuous blood purification treatment."
这种治疗方式俗称「血透」，能清除患者体内的杂质。
This treatment, commonly known as "hemodialysis," removes impurities from the patient's body.
由于新冠病毒肺炎可能会引起多器官衰竭，通过血透可以延长患者的治疗时间，让他们得以继续等待更好的药物和更好的治疗方式。
Because pneumonia may cause multiple organ failure, hemodialysis can prolong treatment and allow patients to continue to wait for better drugs and better treatments.
其中的3位护士，在2月1日向《人物》讲述了在重症监护室的经历，她们分别是张春艳、朱恋和李湘湘。
Three of the nurses, named Zhang Chunyan, Zhu and Li Xiangxiang, told People on February 1 about their experiences in the intensive care unit.
以下是她们的口述：文|罗婷编辑 |糖槭11月28日，是我们在金银潭医院正式下临床的第一天。
The following is their oral statement: & # 45; Rating & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
我们负责的病区，在金银潭医院住院部南楼的五层、六层、七层，是收治最危重病人的病区。
We are responsible for the disease area, gold and silver pool hospital in the south building of the 5th, 6th, 7th floor, is the most critically ill patients admitted to the area.
进到病房前，光穿衣服就要花快半个小时——先在更衣室换工作服，换完会经过医生办公室，进入一个缓冲间，这个缓冲间里也有医生们在配药、写文书，我们就在这里洗手，洗完手戴口罩、戴帽子，再洗手，穿防护服。
It took us half an hour to get into the ward naked - changing clothes in the locker room, passing through the doctor's office and entering a buffer room where doctors dispensed medicine and wrote paperwork, where we washed our hands, wore masks, wore hats, washed hands and wore protective clothing.
再进入一个缓冲间，在这里再穿一层防水服，穿两层鞋套。
Enter a buffer room, where you wear another layer of waterproof clothing and two layers of shoe covers.
接下来还是一个缓冲间，是平常外围的工作人员给我们递东西的地方。
Then there is a buffer room, where the usual outside staff deliver things to us.
最后就到病房了。
And finally to the ward.
第一次进到监护室的感觉，不是别的，是真没想到，监护室的条件那么艰苦。
The first time I went to the intensive care unit, I didn't think of anything else. The conditions in the intensive care unit were so difficult.
因为这次是临时把病房改成了监护室，严格意义上来讲，只有病人的病情达到了监护室的要求，病房的条件没达到。
Since the ward was temporarily converted into a ward, strictly speaking, only the patient's condition met the requirements of the ward, the conditions of the ward were not met.
真正的监护室，是一个很大的房间，能一目了然看到病人的所有情况。
A real monitor room is a large room with a clear view of the patient's condition.
床上的设施也可以做到串联，比如我现在在看一号床的病人，如果二号床的病人生命体征不好了，我在一号床也能看得到，床边有个红灯会一直闪烁，告诉我二号床出了什么问题。
Bed facilities can also be connected, like the one I'm looking at in bed number one, I can see it in bed number one if the patient's vital signs aren't good, and there's a red light on the bedside that keeps flashing, telling me what's wrong with Bed Two.
而这个监护室，是一个个的病房，每个病房里有两到三个病人，都要靠自己发现。
And this ward, is a ward, each ward has two or three patients, have to rely on their own discovery.
你要时刻走来走去，观察、巡视，病房之间还是会有距离，你就担心哪个病人没观察到位。
You walk up and down, watch, walk, there's still a distance between wards, and you worry about which patients aren't there.
心里慌，没谱。
I'm scared. I can't.
对病人来讲，条件也比较艰辛。
Conditions are also difficult for patients.
这里的氧气不是中心给氧，需要我们自己推氧气罐，氧气罐好大、好高，我们要用尽全力。
The oxygen here is not the center of oxygen supply, we need to push the oxygen tank ourselves, oxygen tank is very large, very high, we have to use all our strength.
也因为整个医院都是确诊的病人，又没有家属陪同，我们一个人管六七个病人，我觉得他们心里应该也很害怕，被隔离在这里，不像平时住院，好歹有家人陪，或者可以散步，在这里只能躺在床上休息。
And because the whole hospital was a confirmed patient, with no family with us, and we had six or seven patients on our own, I felt that they should also be frightened in their hearts, isolated here, unlike in normal hospitals, with their families, or walking, where they could rest only in bed.
监护室里，至少说我们护理的病人，基本年龄都偏大，主要集中在50岁到70岁，基本的肺部情况本身就不是很好。
In the intensive care unit, or at least the patients we cared for, the basic age was too large, concentrated between the ages of 50 and 70, and the basic lung condition itself was not very good.
也碰到过29岁的、40多岁的，但他们病情相对没那么重。
I've also met people in their 40s who are 29, but they're not that sick.
大多数病人的症状都是呼吸困难。
The symptoms in most patients are dyspnea.
每个人的严重程度不一样，有的靠着无创呼吸机和高流量就可以了，有的要插管，最严重的也有，用上了体外肺。
The severity varies from non-invasive ventilators and high flow rates to intubation, to severe cases, and to the use of external lungs.
我们觉得很不忍心的一点是，他们是两到三个人一个病房，中间是没有遮挡的。
What we find hard to bear is that they are two or three people in a ward, with no shelter between them.
三分之二的病人用了镇静镇痛，是一直在睡觉，但还有三分之一的人是清醒的、有意识的。
Two-thirds of the patients were sedative and analgesic, sleeping all the time, but a third were conscious and conscious.
他们肯定会目睹同病房的病人抢救的过程。
They will surely witness the rescue of patients in the same wards.
有时候病人呼吸实在太难受了，无创呼吸机没办法支持你的呼吸了，我们就要搞人工气道，从病人嘴里插一根管子，有时候还要做胸部按压。
Sometimes the patient's breathing is so bad that a non-invasive ventilator can't support your breathing. We need artificial airways, a tube in the patient's mouth, and sometimes chest compressions.
被抢救的病人难受，同病房的病人看到了，我们想应该也挺难受的吧。
The patient that is rescued suffers, see with the patient of ward, we think also quite afflictive.
不想让他们看到这个抢救过程，但在这里做不到，没有帘子可以给他们隔开。
Do not want them to see this rescue process, but can not do here, there is no curtain to separate them.
他们态度很好，人也很好，但是大家都是同一种病毒感染的，肯定心理压力大，他们没有表现出来，但我们心里都清楚，看着也觉得好心酸的。
They have a good attitude and nice people, but they are all infected with the same kind of virus. They must be very stressed out. They don't show it, but we all know it in our hearts.
那些病人是清醒的，只是呼吸很费力，给他们氧浓度打高一点，他们就会呼吸得舒畅一些。
The patients were awake, breathing hard, giving them a little more oxygen, and they would breathe better.
他们很安静，不是真的有事不会喊我们，跟我们说话说得最多的就是「谢谢」，「对不起」，「麻烦了」。
They're quiet, they're not really in business, they don't call us, and the most common words we speak to us are "thank you," "sorry," "trouble."
有一次碰见一个病人，40多岁，因为没有家人在身边，大便小便都是靠我们清理。
I once came across a patient in her 40s who had to clean up her stool and urine because she had no family with her.
每给他搞一回粑粑，倒一回尿，他都会跟你说「对不起」。
Every time you give him baba and pour out a piss, he says "I'm sorry."
听了这个话，都不晓得该怎么回答了。
I don't know how to answer that.
他觉得什么脏活都给你干了，但对我们重症监护室的人来说，这是职责内的事情，我一般都回答「没关系的」。
He thinks you've got all the dirty work for you, but for our intensive care unit, it's part of his job, and I usually answer, "It's okay."
就算在这个时候，你其实也能看到一个人的体面和尊严。
Even at this time, you can actually see a person's decency and dignity.
护士们用玻璃上贴纸的方式与外界沟通图源受访者2其实第一天上完班，我们三个人里就有一个人（朱恋）哭了。
Source: interviewee 2: Actually, one in three of us cried when we finished our first day on the job.
一是环境比较陌生，我们在湘雅医院单纯做重症监护，其实很少接触这种需要隔离的传染病人，大批呼吸衰竭的病人，可能这一秒还好好的，下一秒就发生了变化。
First, the environment is relatively unfamiliar, we only do intensive care in Xiangya Hospital, in fact, little contact with this need for isolation of infectious diseases, a large number of patients with respiratory failure, may be good this second, the next second changed.
所以现在的工作跟原来的工作，节奏不一样，更重一些。
So now the work is not the same as the original work, the rhythm is different, heavier.
另外你的搭档又是第一天来的，你们之前不认识，你说话的那个点，对方也不一定知道。
Besides, your partner came the first day, and you didn't know each other, and the point you spoke to wasn't necessarily known.
比如在抢救的时候，谁负责按压，谁负责喷药，谁来记录抢救时间，谁下医嘱，一个团队的人分工都应该很明确。
For example, in rescue, who is responsible for pressure, who is responsible for spraying, who records the rescue time, who orders, a team division of labor should be very clear.
但是现在大家都穿着防护服，谁也不认识谁，你刚过来，也不清楚抢救物资在哪里，又要喊人帮忙，但是别人也要管六七个病人，她们自己的病人可能状况也不是很好。
But now that everybody is wearing protective clothing and no one knows anyone, and you've just come here, you don't know where the emergency supplies are and you need help, but the other people have to take care of six or seven patients, and their own patients may not be in very good shape.
整个人在慌乱和盲目中做这些事情，压力真的很大。
The whole person in panic and blind to do these things, the pressure is really great.
那天从早上8点到晚上6点，10个小时的班，我（朱恋）从来没有穿着防护服、戴着N95，这么长时间的工作过。
That day from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., 10 hours of work, I (Zhu love) have never been wearing protective clothing, wearing N95, so long work.
真的是全身汗湿了，身体其实很不舒服，最危险的是，口罩被汗打湿了。
The body is really wet with sweat, the body is actually very uncomfortable, the most dangerous is, the mask is wet with sweat.
我当时心里想，按道理来说，打湿了口罩，防护作用就没那么大了。
I thought to myself, logically speaking, wet the mask, the protective effect is not so big.
我给病人喂饭喝水的时候，呼吸机里吹出来的风刮在我脸上，口罩又湿了，暴露风险很大，我心理压力也特别大。
As I fed and drank, the wind from the ventilator blew in my face, my mask was wet, my exposure was high, and my psychological stress was particularly intense.
回去就哭了。
Go back and cry.
哭完就好了点，第二天慢慢适应了，现在心情已经挺平稳了。
After crying a little better, the next day slowly adapted to the mood has been quite smooth.
来之前原本我（张春艳）还在担心，因为病毒的存在，一直不能开空调，会又冷又困，但实际上，在这种封闭又忙碌的环境中，真的会没有困意，每次大汗淋漓的时候，我都会站在走廊上，闭着眼睛，数10秒，然后再开始忙碌的工作。
Before I came, I (Zhang Chunyan) was worried, because the virus has been unable to open the air-conditioning, will be cold and sleepy, but in this closed and busy environment, really will not sleepy, every time sweat, I will stand on the corridor, closed eyes, count 10 seconds, then start busy work.
说真心话，我们是医护人员，主动请缨来上战场，但也都是别人的女儿，都是普通人，都怕被感染，也都经历过一些比较惊险的时刻。
To tell the truth, we were medical workers who had chosen to go to war, but they were also the daughters of other people who were afraid of being infected and who had been through some very dangerous moments.
也是第一天上班，当时我（张春艳）戴着眼镜和口罩，没有戴面罩，只是一个常规的防护。
It was my first day at work, too, when I was wearing glasses and a mask, not a mask, just a routine protection.
在里面时间一长，口罩全部汗湿了，眼镜就容易起雾。
In the inside of a long time, the mask all wet, glasses easy to fog.
起雾是一个标志——说明你的密封性不好，气体会跑出来。
Fog is a sign that your seal is not good and the gas will run out.
我们有规定，眼镜一旦起雾就必须立即去更换。
We have a policy that glasses must be replaced as soon as they get foggy.
但那天我刚好在帮一个病人插管，眼镜一直在起雾，那种情况下你是根本不可能拿你的手去调节的，因为你的手一直在被污染。
But I was helping a patient intubate the other day, and my glasses kept fogging, and in that case it was impossible to adjust with your hands, because your hands had been contaminated.
也没想过去更换，再说，更换的话更没有物资，你也不想浪费。
Also did not want to replace in the past, moreover, the replacement of materials, you do not want to waste.
本来防护服就少，你一更换，就是从头到尾，面屏、防护服、N95。
Originally, the protective clothing is less, you replace, is from beginning to end, face screen, protective clothing, N95.
这件事一直在我心里压着，从来没讲出来过，但是心理压力还是很大的。
This matter has been in my heart pressure, has never said, but the psychological pressure is still very big.
不只是这些时候，我们帮病人喂饭喂水，处理大小便、抢救，一直都是在近距离接触他们。
Not only this time, we help feed and water patients, deal with urine, rescue, has been in close contact with them.
这些病人们会经常咳嗽、打喷嚏，这是止不住的。
These patients often cough and sneeze, which cannot be stopped.
所以如果说医生是一线，其实我们是超一线吧。
So if doctors are the first line, in fact we are a super-line bar.
我们在重症监护室里工作，手上拿着对讲机和外面对话，要什么东西，也是贴个条子在玻璃上面，他们再送进来。
We worked in the intensive care unit, holding a walkie-talkie and talking to the outside world, asking for something, also taped to the glass, and they brought it in.
所以对我们来说，对吃、住都没什么要求。
So for us, there is no need to eat or live.
最担心、最紧张、最敏感的，就是怕防护物资跟不上。
The most worrying, nervous and sensitive thing is the fear that the protective material will not keep up.
我们现在的防护其实还不是最高级别的。
Our protection is not really the highest level yet.
N95戴的是两层的，蓝色的那种薄款，其实不符合要求。
N95 is a two-storey, blue, thin model that doesn't meet the requirements.
标准的应该是那种三层的白色N95。
The standard should be the three-storey white N95.
但是物资短缺，现在没有那一种。
But there is no such thing as a shortage.
我们就自己注意点。
Let's just take care of ourselves.
到了这边之后，我们都剪短了头发，不能去理发店，就自己在超市买了把剪刀，互相帮着剪。
When we got here, we all cut our hair short, couldn't go to the barber's, bought a pair of scissors at the supermarket, and helped each other cut.
按规定来说，脱完防护服，我们最好是在医院里洗澡洗头，那肯定是头发短一点方便些，也容易干，所以就剪了。
According to the regulations, we had better take a bath and shampoo in the hospital. It must be shorter and easier to dry, so we cut it.
但也不能剪太短，要能绑起来，帽子才能遮得住。
But also cannot cut too short, must be able to tie up, the hat can cover.
如果太短了，会从边边露出来，扎到眼睛，其实也是一个污染。
If too short, will come out from the side, piercing the eyes, is also a pollution.
从病房出来，整个流程也很繁琐。
The whole process of getting out of the ward is also tedious.
穿隔离衣其实还好，脱比较麻烦，每脱一层，都要洗一次手。
Wear the isolation clothing is actually good, take off more trouble, every layer off, must wash a hand.
每一个洗手的动作大于15秒，洗手的过程要达到3分钟，这些天洗了多少次手，早就数不清了。
The hand washing process takes up to three minutes for each hand washing operation of more than 15 seconds, and the number of times the hands have been washed in those days has already been innumerable.
护士们在互相剪头发 图源受访者3这一次来金银潭医院，我们都是自愿报名。
The Nurses were HairclipsThe interviewees came to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital this time. We all signed up voluntarily.
当时护士长在群里发了个消息，说国家卫健委需要5位有重症护理经验、又能够做连续性血液净化的护士，我们就马上报名了，不到半个小时就报满了。
At the time, the head nurse sent a message to the group that the NHS needed five nurses with intensive care experience who could provide continuous blood purification. We signed up immediately and filled it up in less than half an hour.
当时我们有的人在家里穿着睡衣，躺在沙发上嗑瓜子、看电视，有的是还在逛街。
Some of us were at home in pajamas, lying on the sofa on the Kegua Zi, watching TV, some are still shopping.
报完名马上消息就来说，让我们一个小时后赶到医院，真的是只有半个小时收拾行李。
The news immediately came out. Let's get to the hospital in an hour. It was only half an hour.
也不晓得来多久，随便收拾了点，我爸爸也没问我要什么，就跑下去，买了5盒方便面上来。
I don't know how long it will take. My father didn't ask me what I wanted, so he ran down and bought five boxes of instant noodles.
中南大学湘雅医院派出的5位来自重症医学科的护士 图源中南大学微博到了医院就马上培训，怎么穿脱防护服。
Five nurses from Xiangya Hospital of Zhongnan University came to the hospital for training on how to wear protective clothing.
虽然说我们都在湘雅的重症医学科工作了快十年，但是真是没有这么长时间地穿过防护服。
Although we've been working in Xiangya's intensive care unit for nearly a decade, we haven't worn protective clothing for that long.
晚上培训完，第二天坐高铁到了武汉，第三天就上班了。
Evening training finished, the next day by high-speed rail to Wuhan, on the third day of work.
几年前的埃博拉疫情，当时也在我们这里招募，我们都想报名，但是硬性条件很高，要求是党员、英语六级、主管护师，那时候我们都很年轻，没有达到这些要求。
We wanted to sign up for the Ebola outbreak a few years ago, and we all wanted to sign up, but the hard conditions were high, Party members, English 6, supervisors, and we were young and did not meet those requirements.
雅安地震也是一样的，想报名，没达到标准。
Ya'an earthquake is the same, want to register, not up to standard.
这一次不一样，我们都上班这么多年，很多经验也有了，就希望能把自己专业上面的东西，服务于他们吧。
This time is different, we all work so many years, a lot of experience also has, hope to be able to their professional things, to serve them.
作为医护人员没有谁不想贡献自己的力量，只是岗位不同而已。
As a medical staff who do not want to contribute their own strength, just different positions.
我们留在湘雅的同事，同样也是在一线。
Our colleagues who stayed in Xiangya are also on the front line.
我们是觉得没什么，但跟家里人说话还是挺注意的。
We didn't think much of it, but we were careful to talk to our family.
不会跟爸妈视频，就怕跟他们搞视频，他们就会问这个问那个，问得自己有情绪了，所以基本都是聊微信，给他们报平安。
Will not video with their parents, afraid to do video with them, they will ask that, ask their own emotions, so basically chat micro-letters, give them peace.
我（朱恋）外婆年纪大了，快80了，每次我跟她打电话，一听到我的声音她就会哭，觉得我很可怜，在这里上班很辛苦，就会心疼，我后来也干脆不打电话了，每天在家族群里报个平安就行了。
I (love) grandmother is old, nearly 80 years old, every time I call her, she will cry at the sound of my voice, feel very poor, work here very hard, will be distressed, I will not even call later, every day in the family group to bring peace.
我（张春艳）女儿今天还跟我老公讲，说妈妈怎么还不回来？好久没有看到她了，我们一起开车去接她。
I (Zhang Chunyan) daughter still told my husband today, said why mother has not come back? Haven't seen her for a long time, we drive together to pick her up.
因为我以前上班，我老公每天都开车去接我，她今天就拉着爸爸，说要去接妈妈回来。
Because I used to go to work, my husband every day to pick me up, she took Dad today, said she was going to pick up mother back.
我能做的就是每天和她视频，让她每天都能看得到我。
All I can do is watch her video every day so she can see me every day.
离开长沙的时候，我们匆忙打包了行李，预计是待上一个月。
By the time we left Changsha, we had packed our bags in a hurry and expected to stay for a month.
但现在，我们其实不知道会持续多久。
But for now, we don't really know how long it will last.
最大的愿望有两个，一个就是防护物资充足。
There are two greatest wishes, one is the adequacy of protective materials.
前两天上夜班，他们告诉我防护服不够了，夜里不能出来，我当时就拿了两大条士力架，立马灌了下去，好腻好甜，但是我必须吃一点，士力架热量高，经得起熬，我怕在里面我撑不了那么长时间。
The other day I was on night shift. They told me that my suit was not enough and I couldn't get out at night. I took two large stacks of stacks and immediately filled them with them.
另外一个愿望就是，希望赶快研发出药物，或者有效的疗法，治好他们的病。
Another desire is to hasten the development of drugs, or effective therapies, to cure them.
原来我们一直想来武汉看樱花，一直没来成，现在再过一个多月，樱花就要开了。
Originally we always wanted to Wuhan to see cherry blossoms, has not come, now more than a month later, cherry blossoms will be opened.
希望到时候疫情也过去了，看完樱花，我们都可以回家。
Hopefully, the outbreak will be over, we can all go home after seeing the cherry blossoms.
这是最好的。
This is the best.
护士的朋友圈 图源受访者。
Nurse's circle of friends source interviewees.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​我在金银潭重症监护室。
I'm in Gold and Silver Pool Intensive Care Unit.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "​我在金银潭重症监护室";。
var msg _ title = & quot; took me to Riley's intensive care unit;;
var msg_desc = "「我们是医护人员，但也都是别人的女儿，都是普通人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We are paramedics, but also the daughters of others, all ordinary people.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
