速冻行业遇特殊用工潮  工厂自动化加速被提上日程 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Fast-frozen industry encountered special industrial wave factory automation was put on the agenda - Economic Observation Network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="郑淯心";。
Var auther = & quot; Zheng Zhen quot;;
速冻行业遇特殊用工潮  工厂自动化加速被提上日程。
Fast-frozen industry encountered special industrial wave factory automation has been put on the agenda.
郑淯心2020-02-13 17:44。
Zheng Zhenxin 2020-02-13 17: 44
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者郑淯心 北京报道三全食品（002216.SZ）今年的招工启事发得格外早。
Zheng Zhenxin, a reporter for the Economic Observer, reported that a job advertisement for Sanquan Foods (002216.SZ) was circulated earlier this year.
。
.
往年春节过后，进入三月即是速冻食品的淡季，工厂的生产线也不再日日满工，变得清闲起来。
After the Spring Festival of previous years, it is the low season for frozen food to enter March, and the factory production line is no longer working full time and becoming idle.
流水线上的员工，一部分会去宁夏采摘枸杞、去新疆摘棉花、或回家务农，他们最大效率用自己的体力换取更高收入。
Some people on the assembly line pick wolfberry in Ningxia, pick cotton in Xinjiang, or return home to work in the fields.
。
.
2月8日，正值正月十五，三全食品发出了招工启事，招聘从事包制饺子、面点、春卷、馄饨等岗位的成型工，从事配料、菜处理、和面、包装、机械操作等岗位辅助工、技能工。
On February 8, the fifteenth day of the first month, SanQuan Food issued a job advertisement, recruiting workers for jobs such as making dumplings, pasta, spring rolls and wonton, and engaged in ingredients, dish processing, flour, packaging, mechanical operations and other positions auxiliary workers, skilled workers.
三全食品总裁陈希向记者介绍，这是为了开足马力生产，释放更大产能，在防控疫情的特殊时期，保障生产满足市场供应。
Sanquan Food President Chen Xi told reporters that this is to produce at full capacity, release more capacity, in the prevention and control of the epidemic in special periods, to ensure production meet the market supply.
。
.
疫情期间，速冻米面食品需求量陡增，一些电商和零售终端也提前迎来用工考验。
During the epidemic period, the demand for frozen rice noodle food surged, some electrical businesses and retail terminals also welcomed the test ahead of time.
受疫情影响，盒马、苏宁家乐福和京东等企业订单量上升也产生了更多的劳动力需求。
Affected by the epidemic, boxed horse, Suning Carrefour and Jingdong and other enterprises order volume also generated more labor demand.
。
.
生产线需要大量的工人，但是一线工人因疫情防控，无法第一时间返岗，用工难、用工贵再度凸显。
The production line needs a large number of workers, but because of the epidemic prevention and control, the first-line workers can not return to work, difficult, expensive re-highlighted.
面对突如其来的挑战，企业也有了更长远的打算。
Faced with unexpected challenges, companies also have longer-term plans.
三全、思念等均向记者表示，疫情更加坚定了公司对生产工艺更高效、自动化研发的决心。
Sanquan, missing, and so on to reporters, the epidemic has strengthened the company's production process more efficient, automated research and development determination.
电商们则把人力提前投放到了疫情期间作用凸显的到家业务、一小时场景生活圈等，这些也将成为它们2020年的重点。
Electric vendors have put their manpower ahead of schedule into home-to-home operations and one-hour scenes during the epidemic, which will also be their focus in 2020.
。
.
传统淡季迎来用工高峰。
The traditional low season ushered in peak employment.
疫情来了，速冻米面行业的用工节奏被打乱了。
The epidemic has come and the pace of employment in the frozen rice noodle industry has been disrupted.
三全的招聘信息率先释放了信号，今年的速冻工厂用工高峰期在行业传统淡季之时已经到来。
Sanquan's job offers are the first to signal that this year's peak use of frozen plants has come at a time of traditional slack seasons in the industry.
。
.
三全在2月8日发出的招聘信息显示，他们急需从事包制饺子、面点、春卷、馄饨等岗位的成型工，从事配料、菜处理、和面、包装、机械操作等岗位辅助工、技能工。
According to the job posting on Feb. 8, Sanquan is in urgent need of workers in such jobs as making dumplings, pasta, spring rolls and wonton dumplings, as well as auxiliary and skilled workers in ingredients, dish processing, pasta, packaging and mechanical handling.
另外，招聘信息还特别提到，操作设备的技能工，增设有岗位补贴，每月400-1000元；设立全勤奖励，并在旺季增设稳岗补贴。
In addition, the recruitment information specifically mentions the addition of a job allowance of between $400 and $1,000 per month for skilled workers operating equipment, the establishment of full-time incentives and the introduction of a post-stabilization subsidy during peak seasons.
。
.
“这是考验企业弹性管理的时刻，”陈希对记者称，突如其来的疫情让订单量迅速增加，三全食品一边进行着招聘，一边也在调整现行人员结构，把之前部分行政人员调到工厂车间生产一线，以保证和增加产品的生产供应。
"This is a time to test the resilience of companies," Chen told reporters, adding that the sudden outbreak has led to a rapid increase in orders, and SanGourmet is reorganizing its current staffing structure and moving some of its former administrative staff to the factory floor to secure and increase production supplies.
“由于工厂机械化水平较高，对工人的操作技术要求变低，新员工培训难度不大，增加一线人手就可以提高汤圆水饺产能。
"Because of the higher level of mechanization in factories, the lower the skill requirements for workers and the difficulty of training new employees, more frontline workers can increase the production capacity of dumplings.
”陈希补充。
Mr Chen added.
。
.
2月2日，三全食品公告称，疫情期间家庭内就餐频次提高，水饺面点等作为家庭备餐的作用凸显，速冻食品需求量上升。
During the outbreak, the frequency of meals in the home increased, the role of dumplings as a family meal preparation was highlighted, and demand for frozen food increased, according to the February 2 notice.
从终端上看，部分地区部分终端门店速水饺和面点等产品出现了缺货情况，经销商及商超节前库存消化较快，渠道库存低于历史同期。
From the terminal point of view, some parts of the terminal store dumplings and noodle products have been out of stock, dealers and stores before the pre-festival inventory digestion faster, channel inventory lower than the historical period.
。
.
同样的情况也发生在思念食品，思念食品副总裁王亚飞对记者介绍，多地库存告急，有的超市思念水饺和汤圆已经卖空了，思念食品京东旗舰店相较去年同期，呈数十倍的销量增长，其生产的商品来不及入库直接发往终端超市，目前只能加紧赶工扩大供应。
Some supermarkets are missing dumplings and dumplings, and some supermarkets are missing dumplings and dumplings. Compared with the same period last year, sales of flagship stores in Jingdong have increased dozens of times over the same period last year.
。
.
记者了解到，永辉超市、京东等向思念发函要求增加供应。
Reporters learned that Yonghui supermarket, Jingdong and other missing letter to request an increase in supply.
永辉超市的函件显示，希望能从供给侧发力，在货源紧张、成本上涨的情况下，依然按照合同价格履约，保障市场价格稳定。
The letter from Wing Fai Supermarket shows that we hope to make efforts from the supply side to keep the contract price in line with the tight supply and rising cost to ensure stable market prices.
。
.
陈希称，现在市场需求增长，但困难在于年前准备的库存即将用完，受疫情影响新招工人较难，没有足够的生产力应对抢购热潮。
'Market demand is growing, but the difficulty is that inventories prepared a year ago are running out, it's harder to recruit new workers affected by the epidemic and there isn't enough productivity to cope with the rush, 'he said.
。
.
三全食品和思念食品均位于河南省郑州市，截至2月11日24时，河南省累计报告新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例1135例，多地封存，很多工人未能出村赶到郑州，一部分工人赶到郑州还需要自行隔离数天，目前还没有达到100%复工。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, a total of 1,135 confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia had been reported in Henan Province. Many workers were unable to leave the village for Zhengzhou.
。
.
工厂想了很多办法。
The factory thought of many ways.
。
.
2月10日，思念食品副总裁王亚飞对记者称，对于这次疫情的防范，思念食品早在1月25日就已经开始行动，比如对假期中员工身体状况的及时监控，对防护产品的提前准备，以及与各地政府的紧密沟通，都是为了确保节后生产的快速恢复。
On Feb. 10, Wang Yafei, vice-president of food thoughts, told reporters that the prevention of the epidemic, missing food items as early as January 25, such as timely monitoring of the health of staff during the holidays, early preparation of protective products, and close communication with local governments to ensure a rapid recovery of post-holiday production.
考虑到原料备货等问题，物流部门、供应链部门在初四、初五就已经复工，但是各地对速冻食品的大量需求，依然导致现在速冻饺子汤圆的库存告急。
Considering the stock of raw materials and other issues, logistics departments, supply chain departments have resumed work in the fourth, fifth, but the large demand for frozen food around the world still leads to the current stock of frozen dumplings dumpling dumplings.
。
.
陈希对记者介绍，为了尽快复工，三全组织员工在当地宾馆集中隔离，再将隔离期满身体健康的员工集中送到工厂，以缩短自行返工两地隔离所花费的时间。
Chen told reporters that in order to get back to work as soon as possible, the staff of the organization have been grouped together in local hotels, and those who have reached the end of their isolation period have been concentrated in factories to reduce the time spent in self-rework.
。
.
陈希对记者称受春节假期及疫情影响，目前物流发运能力尚未完全恢复，有些地方有货也发不过去。
Chen told reporters that due to the Spring Festival and the impact of the epidemic, the current logistics capacity has not been fully restored, some places can not send goods.
另外，生产人员返程和原材料供应上尚有一些问题需要解决，例如，做水饺需要采购蔬菜、肉，这些上游厂家不开工也会影响三全的原材料供应。
In addition, there are still some problems to be solved in the production process and the supply of raw materials. For example, dumplings need to purchase vegetables, meat, and these upstream manufacturers will also affect the supply of raw materials.
。
.
陈希介绍，各地政府为确保供应，也正在积极协调与帮扶，当地政府优先批准了保民生的工厂以及上下游企业复工。
Chen said governments around the world are also actively coordinating and helping to ensure supplies, with local governments giving priority to approving factories to protect people's livelihood and resuming work at upstream and downstream enterprises.
2月10日，河南省省长尹弘来到三全食品调研企业疫情防控和生产恢复工作，他强调要一手抓好疫情防控，一手抓好恢复生产。
On February 10, Henan Governor Yun Hong came to Sanquan Food Research Enterprise epidemic prevention and production recovery work, he stressed to do a good job of disease prevention and control, hand in hand with resumption of production.
。
.
另外在品类方面，三全优先生产饺子汤圆等自动化程度高的产品，在渠道上，思念则加大了电商、到家及社区团购等新零售渠道的产品供应，方便消费者购买速冻食品。
In addition, in the category, the priority production of dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling dumpling high degree of automation in the channels, missing the electricity business, home and community group purchase and other new retail channels, so as to facilitate consumers to purchase fast-frozen food.
。
.
王亚飞对记者介绍，目前思念食品的管理层都已上班，流水线上的工人被安排在第一批优先复工行列，其他工种按照时间错开复工，结合生产基地就近招募新工、行政人员直援生产等措施，生产正在有序复工中，他时刻关注着疫情的进展。
Wang told reporters that the management of missing food was at work, workers on the pipeline were placed in the first batch of priority jobs, other jobs were staggered according to the time, and production is resumed in an orderly manner in combination with the production base nearby recruit new workers, administrative personnel direct production, etc., he is monitoring the progress of the epidemic.
从正月初一到十五，王亚飞都在忙着把汤圆送到武汉、郑州和广州的定点医院。
From the first to the fifteenth day of the first month, Wang Yafei is busy delivering Tangyuan to the designated hospitals in Wuhan, Zhengzhou and Guangzhou.
。
.
需求提前释放。
Need for early release.
智联招聘基于2月3日—2月7日招聘和求职大数据，作为春节后第一周的样本进行观察分析得出：节后复工第一周企业招聘需求同比下降七成，求职市场降温明显。
According to the survey conducted in the first week after the Spring Festival, recruitment demand for enterprises dropped 70% year-on-year during the first week after the Lunar New Year.
但是疫情期间，专业服务、医疗、教育等行业人才需求相对扩张。
But during the epidemic period, professional services, medical care, education and other industries demand relative expansion of human resources.
。
.
另外，一些生鲜电商平台的用工需求也在疫情期间提前释放。
In addition, some fresh electricity commercial platform's employment demand also early release during the epidemic.
2月12日，盒马称即日起面向全社会、2020届应届生开放3万个岗位。
On February 12, Boxer said that the society as a whole, the 2020 session of students open 30,000 jobs.
除了补充现有人力缺口，也为2020年的经营储备人才。
In addition to filling the existing manpower gap, but also for the 2020 operating reserve talent.
。
.
盒马方面对记者称，受疫情影响，今年春节期间人们使用App线上买菜的需求激增，远远超过盒马的服务能力。
Boxed horses told reporters that because of the epidemic, the demand for App online shopping surged during the Spring Festival, far outstripping the capacity of box horses.
尽管盒马紧急调配人力，取消休假、与其他企业临时“共享员工”，仍无法满足居高不下的线上需求。
Despite the rush to deploy staff, cancel vacations and temporarily "share staff" with other companies, the box is still unable to meet high online demand.
目前，盒马的线上服务能力已经恢复到了春节前的80%，但不少用户反馈，在盒马App买菜还是需要卡点预约配送。
Boxed horse online service capacity has been restored to the pre-Spring Festival 80%, but many users feedback that buying vegetables in the box App or card point delivery.
随着复工复产的推进，“共享员工”将陆续回到原来的工作岗位上，大量空缺岗位又将出现。
As work resumes, "shared employees" will continue to return to their previous jobs, and a large number of vacancies will emerge.
。
.
根据盒马预估，当前全国盒马工作岗位缺口在1万人以上。
According to the box horse estimate, the current national box horse jobs gap of more than 10,000 people.
加上拓店规划，全年人才需求预计在3万人左右。
Combined with the expansion plan, the annual demand for talent is expected to be around 30,000.
新招的3万个岗位不仅有门店的配送、分拣等一线岗位，也包括采购、市场、技术、运营等岗位。
The 30,000 new jobs include not only distribution, sorting and other frontline positions, but also procurement, marketing, technology and operations.
其中配送小哥是最优先招聘的岗位。
One of the highest priority recruitment posts is the distribution of younger brother.
。
.
京东物流也将面向全国开放包括仓储员、分拣员、快递员、驾驶员等在内的超过2万个一线岗位。
Jingdong Logistics will also open more than 20, 000 front-line jobs, including warehouse workers, sorters, couriers, drivers, etc.
同时，已有十余家企业与京东物流开展了多种形式的异业合作，输送了700余名员工在京东物流各园区、转运中心、营业部等参与拣货、打包、分拣、配送等工作。
At the same time, more than a dozen enterprises have carried out various forms of foreign cooperation with Jingdong Logistics, and have sent more than 700 employees to participate in the collection, packing, sorting and distribution of goods in various parks, transit centers and business departments of Jingdong logistics.
。
.
达达集团旗下达达快送平台将面向全国超过2400个县区市招募骑士，首批拟招募1万个骑士；达达集团旗下京东到家平台将协助零售合作伙伴面向全国超过30个城市招募拣货员、打包员等门店岗位，开放岗位超过5000个。
The Dada Group's Dada Express platform will recruit knights from more than 2,400 counties and cities across the country, with the first 10,000 knights to be recruited. The Dada Group's Kindong platform will help retail partners recruit packers, packers and other stores in more than 30 cities across the country, opening more than 5,000 jobs.
。
.
京东7FRESH也已于2月5日发布了“人才共享”计划，面向全国招募临时员工，并邀请临时歇业的员工在此期间以短期打工的方式加盟，提供收银、理货、拣货打包、客服等多种岗位选择。
On Feb. 5, Jingdong 7FRESH launched a "talent sharing" program, targeting temporary employees across the country and inviting temporary hirers to join the company on a short-term basis, offering a variety of job options including cashier, tally, pick-up and customer service.
目前，大洋世家、花里家、小鹤食堂等多家餐饮企业员工已开始到京东七鲜超市上班。
At present, the family of oceans, flowers, cranes and many other catering enterprises employees have begun to work in the Beijing East Seven Fresh Supermarket.
。
.
2月12日晚间，苏宁家乐福也对外发布消息称，将开放包括理货、配送、收银、客户服务等一线作业岗位及产品采购、O2O运营、门店店长等管理岗位，预计吸纳人才超1万人。
During the night of Feb. 12, Suning Carrefour also announced that it would open up front-line operations such as tally, distribution, cashier, customer service and product procurement, O2O operations, store managers and other management positions, which are expected to absorb more than 10,000 people.
苏宁家乐福对记者称，基于2020年公司的发展策略，到家业务的快速发展、门店社区生活中心功能定位的改造、苏宁一小时场景生活圈的更多运用等，对人员的需求快速增长。
'Based on the company's strategy for 2020, the demand for people is growing rapidly, 'Mr. Suning told reporters, citing the company's strategy for 2020, the rapid growth of home-based businesses, the revamping of the store's community living centre function and the increased use of Suning's one-hour scene life cycle.
。
.
改变。
Change.
速冻行业里本就存在的用工难，用工贵问题在疫情期间更加凸显。
Fast-frozen industry in the pre-existing labor difficulties, the use of workers during the epidemic is even more prominent.
如何去解决这个难题？。
How to solve this problem?
王亚飞对记者称，工厂继续提升机械化自动化程度是一个大的发展趋势。
Wang Yafei told reporters that the factory continues to upgrade the degree of automation mechanization is a major development trend.
他回想思念创业伊始，包饺子全靠人工，两万多人包饺子，场面颇为壮观。
He recalled thinking of the beginning of business, dumplings are all by artificial, more than 20,000 people pack dumplings, the scene is quite spectacular.
思念发展二十余年产能也翻了许多倍，如果只靠一线工人数量的等比例增长，肯定是行不通的，工业化、自动化、未来的智能化一定是趋势，这是作为生产型企业必须要解决的问题，也是思念食品一直在努力的方向。
Thinking of the development of more than 20 years of capacity has also increased many times, if only by the number of front-line workers, growth is certainly not feasible, industrialization, automation, the future of intelligence must be the trend, as a production-oriented enterprises must solve, and food has been missing the direction of efforts.
。
.
他称，思念在努力提高国内工厂的自动化程度，2019年思念食品国内首创的“速冻主食自动化生产与品质提升关键技术研究及产业化示范”项目成功通过科技部门验收，这项关键技术的应用在提高自动化生产效率的同时，确保思念中央厨房达到家庭厨房的品质级别。
He said he was thinking of efforts to improve the automation of domestic factories. The 2019 project, "Research and Industrialization Demonstration of Key Technologies for Automated Production and Quality Improvement of Frozen Staples," the first of its kind in China, was successfully accepted by the science and technology department.
此外，思念也在大力推动粽子自动注馅机等智能装备，以减少粽子等产品对于大量人力资源的依赖。
In addition, missing also vigorously promote Zongzi automatic stuffing machine and other intelligent equipment to reduce the dumplings and other products on a large number of human resources.
。
.
陈希对这一观点表示认同，他称此次疫情的发生更加坚定了三全食品对生产工艺自动化研发的决心。
Chen expressed agreement with this view, he said the outbreak of the outbreak of SanQuan Food to automatic production technology research and development determination.
疫情给速冻米面行业带来了新的增长。
The epidemic has brought new growth to the frozen rice noodle industry.
三全食品公告称，受疫情的影响，从需求端呈现订单和需求增加的态势，同时公司存货和部分生产恢复尚在业务运行的合理范围。
Due to the epidemic, orders and demand have increased from the demand side, while the company's inventory and some production recovery is still a reasonable range of operations, said the notice.
。
.
“一方面开放利用社会资源，一方面也坚持自主研发，要投入更多资源，一定要加快生产工艺的自动化，中国特色的食品还是要靠自己来开发。
"On the one hand, opening up the use of social resources, on the one hand, and adhering to independent research and development, on the other hand, we need to invest more resources and accelerate the automation of production processes.
”陈希如是称。
"Chen Xi said.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
郑淯心经济观察报记者。
Zheng Zhenxin Economic Observer reporter.
大消费新闻部记者。
Correspondent, Consumer Press Department.
长期关注大消费行业的市场发展和公司动向，擅长深度调查报道、高端人物专访和产业剖析。
Long-term attention to the large consumer industry market development and company trends, good at in-depth investigation and reporting, high-end interviews and industrial profiling.
。
.
线索请联系：zhengyuxin@eeo.com.cn。
For further information, contact: zhengyuxin @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、速冻行业遇特殊用工潮  工厂自动化   。
1. Automation of special-purpose industrial plants in the frozen industry.
2、瑞德西韦仿制药量产 专利问题何解   。
How to solve the patent problem of Rhetsevier's generic drug production.
3、“回来上班吧，路费我出！”  复工   。
Come back to work, and I'll pay for it!
4、珠三角打响防“疫”保卫战 街坊村   。
4, the Pearl River Delta to fight against the "epidemic" defensive Kaifang village.
5、环境部：全国涉疫医疗废物实现“日   。
5, Ministry of Environment: National epidemic medical waste realization "day."
6、一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉   。
6, a "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan.
7、在家备考的高三学生，正在经历一场   。
The senior high school student preparing for the exam is going through a test.
8、苹果客商的“生意经”：企业开始复   。
8. Apple's "business as usual": the business begins to recover.
9、破解新冠肺炎确诊困局 新型试剂盒   。
9. Decoding the new kit for diagnosing the complications of New Crown Pneumonia.
10、一位中小企业主的复工守望：一边是   。
10, a small and medium-sized enterprise owner's return watch: one side is.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
