回不去的养老院 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Inaccessible Home for the Aged - Economic Watch - Professional Financial News Website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="田进";。
Var auther = & quot; T & quot; T & quot;
回不去的养老院。
A nursing home that cannot be returned.
田进2020-02-13 20:42。
Tian Jin 2020-02-13 20: 42.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 田进三十余家养老机构，每家机构常住两百多位老人，这对于湖南康乐年华养老产业集团（以下简称康乐年华）副总经理龙攀而言，成为了当前最为棘手的问题。
Economic Observer reporter Tian Jin into more than 30 old-age institutions, each resident more than 200 elderly people, Hunan Leisure and Love Pension Industry Group (hereinafter referred to as the "Leisure Love") vice-president of Longan, has become the most thorny issue.
。
.
“年后这段时间，我们的风险其实很大。
"In the years to come, our risk is very high.
养老机构是一个典型的人群聚集场所，而且还不能像学校、商场那样选择暂时关闭，必须持续运营，我们以前也没有遇到过这样的特殊情况，所以一直非常紧张”，龙攀表示。
"Old-age institutions are a typical crowd gathering place, and they can't choose to close temporarily like schools or shopping malls. They have to continue to operate. We haven't had such a special situation before, so we've been very nervous," he said.
。
.
为此，1月25日，康乐年华发布了临时封院的紧急通知，暂停了在院人员的探视，不接待外来人员。
To that end, on 25 January, the Fiesta issued an emergency notice of temporary closure, suspending visits by hospital personnel and not receiving visitors.
。
.
从1月26日开始，北京、陕西、青海、贵州等多个省市民政部门发布通知要求区域内养老机构实行封闭式管理。
Since January 26, the civil affairs departments of Beijing, Shaanxi, Qinghai and Guizhou provinces and municipalities have issued circulars requiring regional institutions for the aged to adopt closed management.
1月28日，民政部也印发了《关于印发＜养老机构新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指南（第一版）＞的紧急通知》，对养老机构提出了七个方面45条措施，外控输入，内防感染。
On January 28, the Ministry of Civil Affairs also issued the Emergency Notice on the Issuance of Guidelines on the Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Infection in Elderly Institutions (First Edition), proposing 45 measures in seven areas for the elderly, including external input and internal infection prevention.
。
.
现在，龙攀的三十余家养老机构封院已进行二十余天，各种问题也接踵而至。
Now, more than 30 institutions for the elderly have been closed for more than 20 days, a variety of problems have also followed.
龙攀对经济观察报表示：“不知道这样的情况还将持续多久。
"I don't know how long this is going to last," Longan told the Economic Observer.
目前最担心防护物资接下来出现短缺问题。
The immediate concern is the next shortage of protective equipment.
如果严格按照规范的防护要求，就要消耗大量的口罩、消毒液等，而这些物资已开始出现短缺。
If strictly in accordance with the protection requirements of the code, the consumption of large quantities of masks, disinfectant, and so on, and these supplies have begun to appear shortage.
”。
"
当下的养老机构。
Current institutions for the elderly.
“以往这个时候，应该是老人返回或入住养老机构的高峰期。
"At this point in the past, it should be the peak period for seniors to return to or stay in institutions.
因为春节过后子女复工时，家里的老人就没人照料，便会选择送到机构进行养老”，湖南省湘民康复养老中心院长张书清对经济观察报表示。
Because when children return to work after the Spring Festival, the elderly in the family will not be cared for, will choose to be sent to institutions for old age, "Zhang Shuqing, director of Hunan Rehabilitation Center for the Aged, told the Economic Observer.
。
.
现在，老人的返院却被按下了暂停键。
Now, the old man's back yard has been pressed the pause button.
。
.
从2019年8月开始运营，张书清负责的养老院目前入住了四十余位老人，春节前请假回家的十二位老人现在面临着回不了养老院的困境。
Since August 2019, Zhang Shuqing responsible for the home for the elderly has been living in more than 40, the Spring Festival home of 12 elderly people now face the dilemma of not returning to the old people's homes.
“家属和老人都提出要求希望能够尽早回来，但是我们只能按照规定去收住老人。
"Families and elderly people are asking to be back as soon as possible, but we have to follow the regulations to stop the elderly.
目前采取的措施就是从请假出院那一天开始，不收取所有的费用。
The current measure is to start on the day of discharge from the hospital without charging all fees.
这对于我们机构而言其实是一个很大的损失，但是有时候，社会责任还是得担当起来。
This is a big loss for our institution, but sometimes social responsibility has to be shouldered.
”。
"
龙攀所在的康乐年华也面临同样的问题。
The age of recreation, where dragons are located, faces the same problem.
。
.
龙攀介绍：“按照民政部门的规定，老人需经过14天的医学观察才能返院，因此要求养老机构设置医学观察点，但是我们大部分养老机构是没有这个条件的，医学隔离观察有相应的要求、标准，所以就导致了实际操作中，年前离院的老人回不来。
"Civil affairs departments require 14 days of medical observation before returning, so they require medical observation points," Longan said. "But most of our institutions do not have this condition, and medical check-ups have their own requirements and standards, so in practice, people who leave their homes before the end of the year cannot return
”。
"
2月10日，在国务院联防联控机制召开的新闻发布会上，民政部养老服务司副司长李邦华表示，如果说老年人在家里能够得到很好的照顾，我们建议暂缓回到养老机构。
On 10 February, at a press conference convened by the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, Li Bonghua, Deputy Director-General of the Elderly Services Department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, said that if elderly people were well cared for at home, we would recommend suspending their return to institutions.
如果确实因为家庭无力照顾，老人需要回到养老机构，如果没有六类禁止进入（比如接触过感染的或者疑似人员等）的情况，经过医学隔离观察14天无异常之后是可以回到养老机构的。
If it is true that the family is unable to care for the elderly, the elderly need to return to the institution, and if there are no six categories of prohibited entry (such as contact with infected or suspected persons, etc.), they can return to the institution after 14 days of medical isolation.
。
.
不仅老人，养老机构的员工也面临同样的问题。
Not only the elderly, but also employees in institutions face the same problems.
。
.
“养老机构护理员一年365天基本都是不休息的，春节假期时，因为有一部分老人回家了，工作压力没那么大，所以我们会进行员工调休。
"Nursing home care workers don't get much rest 365 days of the year. During the Spring Festival, because some elderly people come home, the stress of their jobs is not so great, so we take staff vacations.
现在的情况是，大部分调休的员工因为要做14天的居家隔离，导致目前还没办法进入养老机构，这也就导致春节期间机构工作的一批工作人员已经持续的、高强度工作了很久”，龙攀表示。
As it stands, most employees on vacation are still unable to attend an institution because they have to spend 14 days in isolation, which has led to a group of staff working at the agency for the Spring Festival period working long and hard, Longan said.
。
.
张书清也介绍，如果换到往年平常，员工少一点机构都还能正常运转。
Zhang Shuqing also introduced, if changed to the usual year, the staff a little less institutions are still able to function normally.
这段时间，养老机构的工作量加大了很多，包括日常的体温监测、消杀、老人的心理辅导，都导致工作人员疲于应对。
During this period, the workload of the institutions has increased considerably, including daily temperature monitoring, sterilizations and counselling for the elderly, which has led to staff burnout.
“一旦老人出现体温升高，我们就会非常敏感、紧张，必须第一时间把老人安排住单间，对房间进行一遍全面的消毒处理，停止使用中央空调。
"Once the temperature rises in the elderly, we will be very sensitive, nervous, the elderly must be arranged to live in a single room, a comprehensive disinfection of the room, stop the use of central air conditioning.
”。
"
如履薄冰的企业。
Treadmill-like businesses.
“刚开始，我们养老机构真的就是在’裸奔’。
"At first, we were really running naked in a retirement institution.
”。
"
养老机构的防护能力与防护物资的供应，让龙攀发出了这样的感慨。
The protection ability of the old-age institutions and the supply of protective materials let the dragon climb out of this feeling.
。
.
龙攀介绍，绝大多数养老机构本身的防护能力很弱，不像医院有基本的隔离、消毒功能。
Longan introduction, most of the old-age institutions themselves are very weak protection, unlike hospitals have basic isolation, disinfection function.
养老机构属于生活照料机构，本身也不是按医疗机构建设的，工作人员也不是经过专业护理培训的护士，护理员本身的防护意识和专业的能力是不够的。
Institutions for the elderly are not built by medical institutions per se, nor are staff trained in professional nursing, and the caregivers' own awareness of protection and professional competence is inadequate.
。
.
为此，龙攀所在的集团每天运营都如履薄冰。
To that end, the group where Longan is based operates on thin ice every day.
。
.
“1月22日，集团就召开了第一次应对工作会，这时已经有很多老人回家过年去了，从1月23日开始，三十余家养老机构就开始提醒家属，尽量不要接老人回去，1月25日，正式封院，”龙攀向记者介绍。
"On January 22, the group held its first response session, by which time many elderly people had already returned home for the Lunar New Year. Starting on January 23, more than 30 institutions began to remind families not to take old people back.
。
.
对于老人的看病问题，龙攀需时刻关注排查。
For the elderly to see a doctor, Longan need to pay close attention to inventory.
。
.
“2月10号，集团的一家养老机构的一位老人出现发烧的情况，我们当时特别紧张，马上了解到老人正好是大年三十回家吃了个年夜饭，当天晚上就返回养老院，因此机构马上送老人去医院做临床观察等，同时排查到老人的接触史之后，最终证明是虚惊一场”，龙攀介绍。
"We were particularly nervous when we learned on February 10 that the old man was coming home for dinner on New Year's Eve, and had returned to the nursing home that night. So the institution sent the elderly to the hospital for clinical observation.
。
.
龙攀同时介绍，因为老人本身易生病且常伴有多种慢性疾病的身体状态，这段时间，老人在机构里面生病的，都要安排工作人员，在进行一些防护处理的情况下，送到医院去就医就诊。
Longan also introduced, because the elderly themselves prone to illness and often accompanied by a variety of chronic diseases, during this period, the elderly in the institutions of illness, staff will be arranged, after some protective treatment, sent to the hospital for medical treatment.
。
.
对于老人的精神状态，龙攀需要特别安排人员。
For the old people's mental state, Longan needs special arrangement personnel.
。
.
龙攀介绍，现在养老机构聚集性活动都停止了，机构一般都是以一个楼层为一个护理单元来做一些日常活动，虽不是完全的封闭在房间，但是不能出去散步。
Longan introduction, now the agglomeration activities of old-age institutions have stopped, institutions are generally a floor as a nursing unit to do some daily activities, although not completely closed in the room, but can not go out for a walk.
因为活动减少以及不断更新的新闻信息，还是给老人造成了压力和恐慌，所以各个机构也都特别安排社工人员和护理员对老人进行一些心理的疏导。
As a result of the decline in activities and the constant updating of news information, which creates stress and panic among the elderly, various institutions have also made special arrangements for social workers and caregivers to provide psychological guidance to the elderly.
。
.
对于防护物资的短缺，龙攀需要去四处奔波。
To meet the shortage of protective materials, climbers have to travel extensively.
。
.
龙攀介绍，集团在开完第一次应对工作会之后，就意识到防护物资短缺的问题，各个养老机构没有任何防护物资储备，当时集团马上就组织采购，但当时很多防护物资就已经很难买到或者有些价格特别高。
Longan said the group was aware of the shortage of protective materials after its first meeting, that there was no stock of protective equipment in the institutions and that the group immediately organized the purchase, but at that time many of the protective materials were already difficult to obtain or at particularly high prices.
在紧急情况下，集团还是采买了一部分口罩、体温枪、洗手液、消毒液等。
In case of emergency, the group still bought some masks, body temperature guns, hand sanitizer, disinfectant and so on.
。
.
只是，持续的封院以及每天的消杀，让集团的采购仍显不足。
However, the continued closure of the hospital and the daily elimination, so that the Group's procurement is still inadequate.
。
.
“因为机构是24小时运营的，我们每天都得多次消杀。
"Because the organization operates around the clock, we have to kill it many times a day.
比如公共活动区、扶手等，至少每天两次消杀，因此酒精消耗量很大；口罩的使用量也很大，工作人员和老人都必须佩戴口罩。
For example, public areas, handrails, etc., are eliminated at least twice a day, resulting in a high level of alcohol consumption; the use of masks is also high, and staff and older persons are required to wear masks.
一个机构两三百人，一人一天两个口罩，折算下来就需要五六百个口罩，整个集团每天就需要近两万个口罩”，龙攀对经济观察报表示。
An organization of two or three hundred people, one for two masks a day, would need five to six hundred masks, and the entire group would need nearly 20,000 masks a day, "Longan told the Economic Observer.
。
.
为此，龙攀介绍，一方面集团采购了一部分医疗防护物资，另一方面依赖于政府的支持，各个养老项目所在地的民政局定期会派送一些。
To this end, Longan said, on the one hand, the group purchased a portion of medical protection materials, on the other hand rely on the support of the Government, pension projects where the civil administration regularly send some.
“每个养老机构上也都在实时汇总，目前为止，勉勉强强还是能够用，大概有3-5天的储备量，但也是持续不了太久，我们担心接下来口罩来源可能是个最大的问题。
"Every institution is also aggregating in real time, and so far, it's still up and running, about three to five days, but it won't last long, and we're worried that the next source of masks could be the biggest problem.
正规途径可能买不到，其他渠道价格又都水涨船高。
Formal access may not be available, and prices in other channels are rising.
”。
"
“集团只能积极利用自有资源进行全国各地的医疗防护物资调货、采买，目前集团也还有资金去应对采购的压力。
"The group can only actively use its own resources to transfer and purchase medical protection materials throughout the country, and it also has the funds to cope with the pressure of procurement.
但是如果长时间持续下去，我们可能就会受不了”，龙攀表示。
But if it continues for a long time, we may not be able to bear it, "says Mr Long.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
田进经济观察报记者。
Tian Jin Economic Observer reporter.
大国资新闻部记者。
Correspondent, Department of Public Information.
关注宏观经济以及人社部相关产业政策。
Attention to macroeconomic and related industrial policies of the Ministry.
擅长细节深度写作。
Good at writing in detail.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、回不去的养老院   。
1. A nursing home that cannot be returned.
2、救援5G供应链： MWC停办，巨头提供   。
Rescue 5G Supply Chain: MWC discontinued, giant provides.
3、透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值   。
Look at the value of property management industry through "epidemic situation".
4、新通联股东违规减持被罚 重组标的   。
(4) Unauthorized reduction of shares of NTC shareholders by penalty of reorganization.
5、面对面展业受阻 保险代理人线上寻   。
face-to-face exhibition obstruction insurance agent online.
6、100多家新生军“跨界”  这些企业   。
More than 100 freshmen are "crossing the border" with these companies.
7、外资行解读中国经济：一季度受影响   。
Foreign banks interpret China's economy: first quarter affected.
8、信托公司股权管理暂行办法出台 股   。
Temporary Measures for the Administration of Equity in Trust Companies.
9、复工下的A股投资调研：公私募看好   。
9, A-share investment under the resumption of research: public private placement bullish.
10、万泽股份全面复工前后：紧急返岗    。
10, Wan Ze shares before and after full resumption of work: emergency return to work.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
