瑞德西韦仿制药量产 专利问题何解 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Rhetsevier Patents for Generic Medicines - Economic Watch - Professional Finance News Web site.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="瞿依贤";。
Var auther = & quot; Cu & quot;;;
瑞德西韦仿制药量产 专利问题何解。
How to solve the patent problem of Rhetsevier's generic drug production.
瞿依贤2020-02-13 17:27。
Qu Yexian 2020-02-13 17: 27.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 瞿依贤2月12日这一天，博瑞医药（688166.SH）董秘王征野接了100多个电话，媒体、投资机构和政府部门都来询问：博瑞医药仿制吉利德的原研药瑞德西韦，具体情况怎么样？。
The economic observer reporter Qu Yexian February 12, Bo Rui medicine (688166.SH) secretary Wang Zhonye received more than 100 phone calls, the media, investment agencies and government departments have asked: how about Bori pharmaceutical copy of Geely's original Rhettivir?
王征野11日下班后开始写公告：其公司近日成功仿制开发了瑞德西韦原料药合成工艺技术和制剂技术，已经批量生产出瑞德西韦原料药，制剂批量化生产正在进行中。
Wang Zhongno 11 after work began to write a notice: his company recently successfully imitated the development of Rhetsevir bulk drug synthesis technology and preparation technology, has been mass-produced Rhetsevir bulk drug production is in progress.
当晚9点多公告发出，即引来无数关注。
The 9: 00 pm announcement drew a lot of attention.
。
.
瑞德西韦（Remdesivir）治疗2019-nCoV新型冠状病毒的三期临床试验已经在武汉市金银潭医院启动，疫情困扰下的人们都期待着这个药能成为“特效药”。
The third phase of Remdesivir's clinical trial of 2019-nCoV, a new coronavirus, has been launched at Wuhan's Gold & amp; Silver Pool Hospital, and people are looking forward to the drug becoming a "miracle drug."
博瑞医药在此时量产仿制药，还面临着专利问题。
At this time, Bori medicine mass-produced generic drugs, but also face patent problems.
。
.
瑞德西韦三期临床试验所使用的安慰剂。
A placebo used in a clinical trial of Rhetsevier III.
仿制药量产。
Generic drug production.
王征野告诉经济观察报，其公司在看到美国1例新冠肺炎患者使用瑞德西韦治愈的新闻后开始“开发这个产品”，大约十几天做出原料药，2月13日开始生产制剂。
Wang told the Economic Observer that his company began "developing the product" after seeing news of a case of New Crown Pneumonia cured by Rhetsevir in the United States, making APIs for about a decade, and starting preparations on February 13.
“我们的原料药是自产的，原材料向外面购买，有很多种。
"Our APIs are home-grown and our raw materials are purchased externally in a variety of ways.
”。
"
除了部分原材料有小量库存以外，酒精等原材料需要向外部工厂购买，前期很多企业还未复工，所以受到限制，随着企业慢慢复工，现在这些问题都已经解决。
In addition to the small stocks of some raw materials, raw materials such as alcohol need to be purchased from outside factories, and many enterprises have not resumed work in the earlier period, so restrictions have been placed on these problems, which have now been resolved as the enterprise slowly resumes its work.
王征野表示，目前还是小规模生产，没有放大，“毕竟只有十来天，生产几吨我觉得也不可能”。
Wang Zhongno said, is still small-scale production, did not enlarge, "after all, only about ten days, production of a few tons I feel impossible."
。
.
据王征野介绍，博瑞医药在很多年前做过类似瑞德西韦的化合物，所以做原料药有技术积累，“捡起来重新做的话就比较简单”；有了原料药，制作成制剂的难度在于要做成注射剂，要让原料药溶解，这个属于复杂注射剂的范畴，不是一般的注射剂。
According to Wang Zheng-no, BORI had compounds similar to Rhetsevir many years ago, so there was a technical build-up of APIs that "it is relatively easy to pick them up and do them again"; with APIs, it is difficult to make them into injectables that dissolve them.
。
.
在清华大学药学院院长、全球健康药物研发中心（GHDDI）主任丁胜看来，仿制原料药，开发相应制剂，做出候选的临床用药并不存在多大的技术难度，“这个技术过程是有路可循的，例如专利过期的仿制药就是这么做的”。
According to Ding Sheng, Dean of the School of Pharmacy at Tsinghua University and Director of the Global Centre for Research and Development in Medicines for Global Health (GHDDI), there is little technical difficulty in copying APIs, developing corresponding preparations and making candidate clinical treatments.
。
.
启信宝数据显示，博瑞医药成立于2001年10月，注册资本4.1亿元，经营范围为研发大环内脂、多肽、多糖、杂环、唑类、嗪类、苯醚类、四环素类化合物等，该公司于2019年11月登陆科创板，在业界以仿制药见长。
Established in October 2001 with a registered capital of 410 million yuan, BORI Pharmaceuticals operates in the areas of research and development of macrocyclic lipids, polypeptides, polysaccharides, heterocyclic, azines, benzene ethers and tetracycline compounds.
。
.
根据博瑞医药公告，截至目前，该公司在瑞德西韦的原料药和制剂开发和生产中已发生的成本预计约为500万元，后续进一步放大生产，预计还需要投入约1000万元。
The company's costs for the development and manufacture of Rhetsevir's APIs and preparations are estimated at about $5 million so far, with further expansion expected to cost about $10 million, according to the BORI announcement.
“公司开发瑞德西韦是为了响应国家号召，尽早获得抗击新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）疫情治疗药物。
"The company developed Rhetsevir in response to a national call for early access to drugs to combat the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) epidemic.
若该产品能够获批上市，疫情期间主要通过捐赠等方式供应给相关病人，预计不会对公司 2020 年度经营业绩产生重大影响。
If the product can be approved to go on the market, during the epidemic mainly through donations to the relevant patients, is not expected to have a significant impact on the company's business performance in 2020.
”。
"
该公告同时还提示了三条风险：目前瑞德西韦用于新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）感染的三期临床试验并未结束，因此该药物对于新冠病毒感染是否有效存在重大不确定性。
The announcement also suggests three risks: The third phase of clinical trials for the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection is not over, so there is significant uncertainty about the efficacy of the drug for new coronavirus infections.
如果相关临床试验结果不理想，则对瑞德西韦的仿制技术就无重大价值可言；如果新冠病毒感染造成的疫情短期内迅速获得控制和缓解，确诊病人持续减少，即使瑞德西韦获得注册批准用于治疗新冠病毒感染，预计也不会对抗击本次疫情有重大帮助；即使瑞德西韦用于新冠病毒感染的临床试验成功，公司的前述研发要最终转化为产品投入市场，仍需经过获得专利人授权、药物临床、药品审批等多个环节，这一过程将存在重大不确定性。
If clinical trials are not satisfactory, there is no significant value for Rhetsevir's imitation technology; if the outbreak is quickly controlled and alleviated in the short term, the number of confirmed patients is expected to decline significantly even if Rhetsevir is registered for new crown virus infection.
。
.
多重预先声明之下，资本市场反应仍然热烈，博瑞医药12日涨停，13日开盘即封在涨停板。
Under the multiple pre-announcement, the capital market response is still enthusiastic, BORI medicine trading on the 12th, opened on the 13 th in the trading board.
。
.
跨不过的专利。
A patent that does not cross.
业界对博瑞医药量产瑞德西韦仿制药的讨论主要集中在，瑞德西韦不是专利过期的上市药，而是正进行三期临床试验的在研药物。
The industry's discussion of the bulk production of Rhetsevir generics has focused on the fact that Rhetsevir is not a patent-expired marketed drug, but a drug under development in the third phase of a clinical trial.
。
.
瑞德西韦原本是吉利德针对埃博拉病毒研发的一款药物，目前该药物没有在任何国家获批上市，吉利德也表示“有效性未被证实”。
The drug, originally developed by Geely for the Ebola virus, has not been approved for sale in any country, and Geely says it is "not proven."
这款药此前没有在国内做过临床试验，国家药品监督管理局在2月2日批准了三期临床试验。
The drug, which has not undergone clinical trials in China, was approved by the State Administration of Pharmacy on February 2.
。
.
经济观察报了解到，吉利德已经将瑞德西韦的化合物结构和用于治疗冠状病毒的用途申请了专利，治疗冠状病毒的专利已经概括了所有冠状病毒应用，还提到冠状病毒科聚合酶被抑制的技术特征。
The Economic Observer understands that Geely has patented the structure of Radesivir's compound and the use used to treat the coronavirus, that the patent for the coronavirus covers all coronavirus applications, and that it refers to the technical features of coronavirus-like polymerase inhibition.
。
.
中国科学院武汉病毒所（下称“武汉病毒所”）也在2月4日发布消息称，对在我国尚未上市，且具有知识产权壁垒的药物瑞得西韦，武汉病毒所依据国际惯例，“从保护国家利益的角度出发，在1月21日申报了中国发明专利（抗2019新型冠状病毒的用途），并将通过PCT（专利合作协定）途径进入全球主要国家”。
Wuhan virus research institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Wuhan Virus Institute) announced on February 4 that the Wuhan virus, a drug not yet on the market in China and a barrier to intellectual property rights, had declared on January 21 that it patented a Chinese invention (anti-2019 coronavirus) in accordance with international practice.
。
.
不管武汉病毒所的专利申请能否通过，如果博瑞医药的仿制药要上市销售，吉利德已经拥有的专利就是横亘在面前的现实问题。
Whether or not the Wuhan virus institute's patent application can pass, if the generic version of Berry medicine to be sold on the market, Geely already has a patent is the reality of the problem ahead.
。
.
王征野表示，专利授权是上市销售时必须要获得的，现在博瑞医药生产原料药和制剂还属于研发阶段，“完全不涉及专利的问题，因为专利只是保护专利权人的权益不被别人伤害，非法获取利益，做研发是不受这个条例限制的。
Wang Zhongno said that patent authorization was required for sale on the market and that the production of APIs and preparations by BORI was still a research and development stage. "There is no patent issue at all because patents only protect the patentee's rights and interests from harm and illegal gains.
目前为止不存在任何专利的纠纷。
So far there have been no patent disputes.
”。
"
王征野还表示，博瑞医药未与吉利德进行过专利授权的洽谈。
Wang Zhongno also said that Berry medicine and Geely did not have a patent authorization negotiations.
记者询问是否计划先做出仿制药再来和吉利德谈专利，其表示并不是没有考虑过沟通，但是现在“还没有完全进入一个谈的状态”。
Reporters asked if there were plans to make generic drugs before coming to Gillide to talk about patents, saying they had not considered communication, but were "not quite in a state of conversation."
如果瑞德西韦的临床试验不成功，“我可能就亏掉1500万，我也算尽一份力”；如果成功了，那其公司还要做临床试验，“可能还有专利的问题，这个事情都会一层一层去解决”。
If Rhetsevier's clinical trials don't work, "I could lose 15 million dollars, and I count on it," and if it does, it will do clinical trials, "and there may be patent issues, which will be dealt with layer by layer."
。
.
丁胜告诉经济观察报，由于瑞德西韦还未上市，其药效和安全性尚不明确；同时，由于其专利没有过期，未来使用的范围、方式和相关法律约定仍不清晰。
Ding told the Economic Observer that the efficacy and safety of Rhetsevir were unclear because it was not yet on the market, and that the scope, modalities and legal commitments for future use remained unclear because his patent had not expired.
在目前的疫情背景下仿制这个药，确实有很多复杂的不确定因素，需要协调优质资源、搭建合理机制来应对。
There are indeed many complex uncertainties associated with copying the drug in the context of the current epidemic, requiring the coordination of quality resources and the establishment of appropriate mechanisms to deal with them.
。
.
经济观察报向吉利德公司询问是否与博瑞医药沟通过专利授权一事，吉利德回复称：“我们已知悉博瑞医药发布了公告。
When the Economic Observer asked Geely if it had communicated with Boreal about its licensing, Geely replied: "We have been informed that Boreal Pharmaceuticals has issued a notice.
我们的关注点仍然是迅速确定瑞德西韦用于治疗COVID-19（世界卫生组织对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的命名）的潜力，并尽我们的全力帮助应对冠状病毒的暴发。
Our focus remains on quickly determining the potential of Rhetsevir to treat COVID-19, the WHO's new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, and to do our utmost to help respond to the coronavirus outbreak.
我们认为，瑞德西韦的临床试验数据对于决定药物的后续举措十分关键。
We believe that Rhetsevier's clinical trial data are critical in determining follow-up to the drug.
”。
"
“同情用药”。
"Sympathetic medicine."
瑞德西韦的三期临床试验将入组轻、中度病症患者308例，重症患者453例，并将以严格的随机（患者吃的药物按安慰剂组、全量组、半量组等随机发放）、双盲（医生和患者均不知道患者服用的是药物还是安慰剂）方式进行试验。
The third phase of the Rhetsevir clinical trial will involve 308 patients with mild or moderate symptoms and 453 severe cases, and will be conducted in a strictly randomized manner (patients are given placebo, full dose, half-dose, etc.), double-blind (neither doctors nor patients know whether the patient is taking a drug or a placebo).
据新华社报道，2月6日，一位68岁的男性重症患者成为首位用药者。
A 68-year-old man became the first drug user on Feb. 6, Xinhua reported.
。
.
按照试验设计，轻、中度病症患者按1:1（治疗用药：安慰剂组）进行分组，重症患者则按2：1进行分组，也就是说重症患者中有66%可以接受瑞德西韦治疗，这是在保证试验科学性的前提下向重症患者的救治倾斜。
According to the experimental design, patients with mild to moderate conditions were grouped by 1: 1 (therapeutic: placebo group), while patients with severe diseases were grouped by 2: 1, meaning that 66% of the critically ill patients could receive Rhetsevir treatment, which favoured treatment for patients with severe illnesses, provided that the trials were scientific.
。
.
按照规定，双盲试验在揭盲以前不会有任何试验数据流出，因此即便有了关于安全性和有效性的初步数据，外界也无从得知。
The double-blind test does not require any test data to flow out before it is exposed, so even if preliminary data on safety and efficacy are available, it is not known.
。
.
同济大学附属东方医院肿瘤医学部主任李进建议，在瑞德西韦的三期临床试验中设立独立数据管理委员会（IDMC），对所有实验数据进行统计、评估再做决定。
Li Jin, director of oncology at Tongji University's Oriental Hospital, suggested setting up an independent data-management committee (IDMC) in Rhetsevier's third phase of clinical trials to measure and evaluate all experimental data before making a decision.
首先是因为研究组患者的毒性反应可能会比安慰剂组高，独立数据管理委员会可以评估患者是不是可以接受、可不可以耐受毒性反应、有没有损害受试者的利益，“如果他们认为毒性比较大，安全性存在重大问题，他们可以停止临床试验”。
For starters, because the study group's patients may have a higher toxic response than the placebo group, the independent data-management board was able to assess whether the patients were acceptable, tolerant of toxic reactions, or harmful to the subjects' interests.
。
.
其次，设立独立数据管理委员会可以在药物安全性和有效性得到初步验证的情况下，放开条件对所有重症患者“同情给药”（Compassionate Use，也称为扩大使用）。
Second, the establishment of an independent data-management board would allow for the release of "Compassioned Use" (also known as expanded use) for all patients with severe conditions, provided that the safety and efficacy of the drug have been preliminarily demonstrated.
瑞德西韦在国外已经做过一二期临床试验，安全性得到验证，李进认为，设立IDMC实时统计数据以后，一旦初步发现该药物对重症患者有用，可以放开给所有重症患者“同情给药”，同时收集治疗后的所有信息，相当于一个小规模的真实世界的数据，提交给国家有关药品审批部门参考。
He believes that once the IDMC real-time statistics are found to be useful for patients in serious condition, he can release the "compassionate drug" to all patients in serious condition, and collect all the information, which is equivalent to a small-scale real-world data, for reference to the national department of drug approval.
。
.
基于随机、双盲的特性，丁胜也曾建议加入独立的第三方数据监测机构，“什么患者吃药，什么患者不吃药，患者所有的反应，通过即时录入的数据提前进行数据的定期分析和解读。
Because of his randomized, double-blind nature, Ding also suggested joining an independent third-party data monitoring body, "What patients take and what patients don't take, all patients' reactions, and advance the regular analysis and interpretation of data through real-time data entry."
在完全揭盲以前，就可以初步判断这个实验是失败了还是成功了。
Before we completely uncover the blindness, it is possible to judge whether the experiment was a failure or a success.
”。
"
丁胜认为，假如按照“同情用药”的规则使用，也可以收集“同情用药”病人的数据，或许可以使用部分数据指导临床用药或应用于药物的报批，“这些问题都可以进一步探讨”。
Ding believes that "compassionate medication" patients could also be collected if used according to "compassionate medication" rules, and that some data might be used to guide clinical use or drug approval, "all of which could be explored further."
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
瞿依贤经济观察报记者。
Qu Yexian economic observer reporter.
大健康新闻部记者。
Journalist, Department of Health.
关注医疗、医药等大健康领域，新闻线索请联系邮箱：quyixian@eeo.com.cn。
For more information about health care and medicine, contact your mailbox at: quyixian @ eeo.com.cn.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、瑞德西韦仿制药量产 专利问题何解   。
How to solve the patent problem of Rhetsevier's generic drug production.
2、“回来上班吧，路费我出！”  复工   。
Come back to work, and I'll pay for it!
3、珠三角打响防“疫”保卫战 街坊村   。
3, the Pearl River Delta to fight against the "epidemic" defensive Kaifang village.
4、环境部：全国涉疫医疗废物实现“日   。
4, Ministry of Environment: National epidemic medical waste realization "day."
5、一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉   。
5, a "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan.
6、在家备考的高三学生，正在经历一场   。
The senior high school student preparing for the exam is going through a test.
7、苹果客商的“生意经”：企业开始复   。
7. Apple's "business as usual": the business is beginning to recover.
8、破解新冠肺炎确诊困局 新型试剂盒   。
8. Decoding the new kit for diagnosing the complications of New Crown Pneumonia.
9、一位中小企业主的复工守望：一边是   。
9. A small and medium-sized business owner back to work watchman: Yes.
10、口罩供与需：一场没有硝烟的战争   。
Supply and demand for masks: A war without smoke.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
