穿梭在疫区的摆渡人：武汉的每个人都在努力。
Ferrymen shuttling through the affected areas: Everyone in Wuhan is trying.
邢吟欢。
Xing Yinghuan.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
疫情爆发以来，武汉市公交、地铁系统相继停运，加之私家车禁行，这座一千万人口的巨型城市，在短时间内，迅速从喧嚣中沉寂下来。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, Wuhan city's public transport, subway system, and the ban on private cars, this 10 million-strong city, in a short time, quickly fell from the uproar.
曾经繁华、拥堵的武汉街头，如今显得空荡而寂寥。
Once bustling, congested streets of Wuhan, now seems empty and desolate.
但仍有一群人活跃在武汉的路面上，他们穿上全身防护服，配备消毒液、口罩等装备，组成了志愿者车队，在各个医院间来回穿梭，免费接送无法出行的一线医护人员。
However, a group of people still active on the Wuhan road, wearing body protective clothing, disinfectant, masks and other equipment, formed a convoy of volunteers, shuttle between hospitals, free of charge to transport unable to travel first-line medical personnel.
在安静得不寻常的城市里，志愿者们的车队，组成了武汉的临时动脉，将医护人员输送往前线。
In an unusually quiet city, convoys of volunteers form the makeshift arteries of Wuhan, carrying medical personnel to the front.
同时也见证着每个寻常武汉人的抗疫故事。
It also bears witness to the anti-epidemic story of every ordinary Wuhan people.
我们采访了4位高德打车「医护专车」志愿者。
We interviewed four volunteers from the "Medevac" taxi company.
在空荡的街上，他们制造着这座城市为数不多的发动机声，给武汉带来温暖和慰藉。
In the empty streets, they made the city's few engines, bringing warmth and comfort to Wuhan.
整理| 邢吟欢「跟医生说句『加油』，他能感动好几天」成冬 37岁 男我老家黄石的，从武汉开车过去，1小时不到。
"Speak to the doctor and he can touch me for days," says Wang Yinghuan, a 37-year-old man from my hometown of Huang Shi who drove past Wuhan in less than an hour.
因为离得很近，经常来，所以我对武汉很熟，大学也在这边读的。
Because of the close proximity, often come, so I know Wuhan very well, the university also read here.
我对武汉很有感情。
I have strong feelings for Wuhan.
我是去年结的婚，把根扎在这里。
I got married last year. put roots here.
宝宝现在5个多月了，在武汉总医院出生的，现在那里是接收发热病人的重灾区。
Baby now more than 5 months, born in Wuhan General Hospital, is now there to receive febrile patients in the disaster areas.
武汉人的性格和这个城市的地理位置很像，从武汉出发，不管去哪，都不会特别远，所以它包罗万象，每天接触的都是全国各地的人。
Wuhan people's character and the geographical location of the city, from Wuhan, no matter where, will not be particularly far, so it is all-inclusive, daily contact with people from all over the country.
武汉人比较热情，很多人都很自来熟。
Wuhan people are more enthusiastic, many people are very familiar with themselves.
你外地人，你不会说武汉话？没关系。
You stranger, you can not speak Wuhan language? Never mind.
武汉人不会觉得外地人是来抢他们饭碗的。
Wuhan people will not feel that foreigners are to rob them of their jobs.
所以一开始，这种事发生的时候，武汉人的心态没那么糟，觉得这个事很快就会过去。
So at the beginning, this kind of thing happened, Wuhan people's mentality is not so bad, think this matter will soon pass.
在这个事之前，我有时做做代驾，总之是跟开车有关的一些工作，年底代驾生意比较好，所以就不着急回老家，反正一个小时就能到。
Before this matter, I sometimes act as surrogate driver, in short, some work related to driving, the end of the business is better, so do not worry back home, anyway an hour can arrive.
但没想到发生了这个事，现在回不去了。
But I didn't expect this to happen. I can't go back now.
有一天早上，我打开我注册的网约车APP，发现很多一两百公里的订单。
One morning, I opened my registered Netscape APP and found a lot of orders for one to two hundred kilometers.
平时二三十公里就算大单了，一百多公里的，一个月有一两单就很不错了。
Usually 20 or 30 kilometers even a large order, more than a hundred kilometers, a month a single or two is very good.
当时我觉得反常，后来知道，是听说要封城，很多人都慌了。
At that time I feel abnormal, later know, is to hear to close the city, a lot of people panic.
蜂拥而来的「大订单」，令成冬感到反常，他第一时间截图保存封城以后，出租车不够，又打不到网约车，很多医护人员只能骑共享单车上下班，然后他们就发现，其实武汉很大。
The rush of "big orders" made it unusual for him to spend the winter in Wuhan. When he first tried to save the city, there were not enough taxis, and many doctors and nurses could only use bicycles to get to work.
我当时有个车友群，在招募接送医护人员的志愿者，我就报名了。
I had a motoring crew, and I was recruiting volunteers to pick up the paramedics, so I signed up.
武汉这个城市比较开放，不限车不限牌，除了长江大桥，也不限单双号。
Wuhan this city is more open, unrestricted cars, except for the Yangtze River Bridge, there is no single double number.
所以平时上下班高峰很堵的，从武昌到汉口可能要走两个小时，现在20分钟最多了。
So usually rush hour is very blocked, from Wuchang to Hankou may take two hours, now 20 minutes maximum.
我穿着公司发的防护服，不透气，两个小时全身就湿了。
I wore the company's protective clothing, breathless, and got wet all over for two hours.
那些医生，他们从医院出来的时候，身上也都是汗湿的。
The doctors, when they came out of the hospital, were sweaty, too.
我们小区有个医生，最近一个多星期我都在接他。
There's a doctor in our neighborhood. I've been picking him up for over a week.
他的情况比较尴尬，他是独生子女，父母生病了，他又要值班。
His situation is more awkward, he is an only child, his parents are sick, he has to watch.
超市9点多开门，下午4点多关门，他早上7点多上班，晚上八九点下班，根本买不到菜。
The supermarket opens at nine o'clock and closes at four in the afternoon. He goes to work at seven in the morning and leaves work at eight or nine in the evening.
我就会帮他买菜，社区也会统一采购，送到他家里。
I will help him buy vegetables, the community will be unified procurement, sent to his home.
他很感动，会给我带口罩、酒精，跟我说一些注意事项。
He was so moved that he would bring me a mask, alcohol, and tell me some precautions.
还有个护士，家住得比较远，离医院20多公里，平时就住在酒店里。
There is also a nurse, living far away from the hospital more than 20 kilometers, usually live in a hotel.
家里还有个孩子，她父母身体不太好，那天她要回去送药，打不到车，我就去接她。
There was also a child in the family whose parents were not in good health. She was going back to get some medicine that day, so I picked her up.
她告诉我，在照顾病人的时候，他们会对她说：医生加油。
She told me that when they were taking care of the sick, they would say to her, "Come on, doctor.
我才知道，其实大部分患者，和医生之间都会互相鼓励。
I just know that most patients, and doctors, encourage each other.
医护人员其实很需要正能量的，像我们这种志愿者去接他们的时候，说上一句加油，他们甚至都会哽咽。
Health care workers really need positive energy, like when we volunteers to pick them up, said refueling, they will even choke.
成冬打开车门「通风」在网上看到，一些临床的医生被感染了，因为他们不做的话，就没人做这个事情了。
Open the door "Ventilation" to see online this winter, some clinical doctors have been infected, because if they do not do, no one will do it.
所以他们一直坚持。
So they keep it up.
你在路上或者电梯里，如果遇见一个下班的医生，你跟他说一句加油，照顾好自己。
If you meet an off-duty doctor on the road or in the elevator, talk to him or her and take care of yourself.
他能感动好几天。
He can move for days.
现在我每天出车之前要消毒，下车后也要消毒。
Now I have to disinfect every day before I get out of the car and also after getting off.
为了家人，我注意保护好自己。
I take care to protect myself for the sake of my family.
回到家，会先把外衣和鞋子拿到阳台去。
When we get home, we take our coats and shoes to the balcony.
只要回家看见老婆和宝宝，我就觉得没什么遗憾。
As long as I go home and see my wife and baby, I feel no regret.
宝宝以前每天我都要抱的，现在他要抱抱就不行了，我不会接触他的。
I used to hold my baby every day, but now he can't hug me. I won't touch him.
但是每天还是要看看他。
But look at him every day.
「他们都说外面危险，所以我出去当志愿者，没告诉任何人」李杰50岁 女我是宜昌人，今年50岁了，在武汉呆了快30年了。
"They all said it was dangerous outside, so I went out as a volunteer and didn't tell anyone." Li Jie, 50, a woman from Yichang, is 50 years old and has been in Wuhan for nearly 30 years.
我之前自己开了个公司做些生意，现在生活条件还不错，就在家里收收租，打打麻将，经常也到庙里住一两天，也会做义工，去奉粥什么的。
I used to run my own business, and now my living conditions are good. I collect rent at home, play mahjong, and often spend a day or two at the temple.
我1月中旬的时候听到传言，当时也没觉得是个大事。
I heard the rumor in mid-January and didn't think it was a big deal at the time.
我是22、23号才开始紧张的，因为公交停运，武汉封城了。
I was 22, 23 just began to nervous, because the bus stop, Wuhan closed the city.
我先生和女儿之前去了宜昌外婆家，如果没这个事，他们本来23号是要回武汉过年的，结果回不来了。
My husband and daughter went to the home of Grandmother Yichang. If it hadn't happened, they would have returned to Wuhan on the 23rd New Year.
大年三十我一个人过，那天我在群里看见有人丢二维码，说是专车志愿者，我就报名了。
Year 30 I live alone, that day I saw someone in the group lost two-dimensional code, said that the car volunteers, I signed up.
医生都在一线，我觉得我也应该为他们做点什么。
Doctors are on the line, and I think I should do something for them.
那个时候天天有人给我打电话，说不要出去。
I was called every day and told not to go out.
我女儿也天天跟我视频，交代我别出门，说外面很危险。
My daughter also video me every day, tell me not to go out, said it is dangerous outside.
所以，我没告诉任何人，要做就自己去做。
So I didn't tell anyone to do it myself.
他们知道的话，可能会阻拦我，我也怕家人担心。
If they knew, they might stop me, and I was afraid my family would worry.
刚开始还没有防护服，我就戴了两层口罩。
At first I didn't have a suit, so I wore a two-layer mask.
我没什么纠结的，反正自己保护好自己。
I don't have any problems. I just have to protect myself.
每天车子都要消毒，从桥上过的时候，我会把车窗都打开，通风，就是挺冷的。
Every day the car has to be disinfected, from the bridge, I will open the windows, ventilation, but quite cold.
现在我每天要花10来分钟穿防护服，擦拭消毒相对比较麻烦，我一般擦两到三遍，穿的时候特别注意不要接触皮肤。
Now I spend about 10 minutes a day to wear protective clothing, cleaning and disinfection is relatively troublesome, I usually wipe two or three times, when wearing special care not to touch the skin.
穿着全套防护装备的志愿者李杰（右）我们在等单的时候都不下车，觉得外面有风险，大家都坐在自己的车上刷手机。
Li Jie (right), a volunteer in full protective gear, didn't get off while we were waiting for the order. We thought it was dangerous outside.
我接的很多都是女同志，她们的家人，如果不是医护人员，也走得早，回家过年了，就剩下她们一个人留在武汉，跟我一样。
I answered a lot of lesbian, their families, if not medical staff, also walked early, home for the New Year, leaving them alone in Wuhan, just like me.
她们从春节到现在都没休息，很多人就一直住在医院。
They haven't rested since the Spring Festival and many people have been living in hospitals.
偶尔才回家，就是拿点东西，洗个澡什么的。
Occasionally I come home, just get something, take a shower or something.
有人到车上，尽管累的只能倒在那里，不想说话，但还是提醒我一定要注意防护，保护好自己，大家都特别客气。
Some people to the car, although tired can only fall there, do not want to talk, but reminded me to pay attention to the protection, protect themselves, we are very polite.
也有很多女性在做专车志愿者。
There are also a lot of women volunteering in cars.
有一次我送一个医生的时候，看到有其他车的志愿者在送一个发烧的病人，因为大家穿的都是防护服，看不清长相，但是从她的声音我能听出来是个姑娘。
Once, when I was sending a doctor, I saw volunteers with other cars delivering a feverish patient because they were wearing protective clothing and could not see clearly, but I could tell from her voice that it was a girl.
高德打车「医护专车」产品入口武汉人嘛，平时挺泼辣的，但这个时候都很和气。
Gaud take the car "the medical car" product entrance Wuhan people, usually quite spicy, but this time are very kind.
我们小区，有人说我家里有茼蒿，我想吃萝卜，然后就有人来说，我有萝卜，我来跟你换茼蒿。
Our neighborhood, someone said I have garland chrysanthemum, I would like to eat radish, then someone said, I have radish, I and you exchange chrysanthemum.
谁家没有口罩了，别人知道了，就会挂在自家门上，然后在群里说，我家有，挂在门上了，自己来拿吧。
If anyone knows about the mask, they will hang it at home. Then they say in the group, 'My house has it. It's on the door.
我们都想让病毒早日散去。
We all want the virus to go away soon.
等这次疫情过了之后，我觉得，一定要珍惜生命，其他事情都可以想开点，日子过得简单一点。
After this epidemic, I feel that we must cherish life, other things can be opened, a little easier to live.
「医生把早餐递给我，说，别嫌弃」代敏 39岁 男我是武汉本地人，在武昌造船厂工作，和70岁的父亲一起住。
"The doctor handed me breakfast and said," Don't be averse to it. "I am a native of Wuhan, working in Wuchang Shipyard and living with my 70-year-old father.
每天朝九晚五，按部就班，下班后就在高德上面跑一下专车。
Work nine to five every day, step by step, and take a ride over Gaud after work.
去年11月底，我母亲过世了，今年的大年三十，就我和父亲两个人在家里，自己做饭吃。
At the end of last November, my mother passed away. This year, my father and I were at home cooking and eating.
按照习俗，初一到初三，不能走亲戚，初四以后才能出去拜年。
According to custom, the first day of junior high school to three, can not leave relatives, after four days can go out.
所以我提前买了好几千块钱吃的东西，准备春节家里来客人的时候，用来招呼。
So I bought thousands of dollars to eat in advance, to be used to greet the Spring Festival home guests.
结果现在只能放在家里，自己慢慢吃了。
The result now can only put at home, oneself eat slowly.
我跟我老爸说，你在家里呆着，不要出去，家里吃的很多。
I told my dad you stay at home, don't go out and eat a lot at home.
我大概12月底的时候，听到了一些消息，然后就有一点关注。
I heard some news about the end of December, and then I had a little bit of concern.
那个时候，说心里话，觉得离自己还有点远，没想过会发生在自己身边，像现在这么严重。
At that time, speaking from the bottom of my heart, I felt a little far away from myself, never thought it would happen to me, as serious as it is now.
后来政府发通知的时候，我还不敢相信这个事情是真的。
When the government informed me later, I couldn't believe it was true.
然后单位就放假了，头几天，我呆在家里看新闻，事情越来越严重，我就在家里呆不住了，想出去做点什么，想出一点力。
Then the work unit on holiday, the first few days, I stay at home to watch the news, things are getting worse, I can not stay at home, want to do something, think a little bit.
报名的时候，我没告诉我父亲，他年纪大了，肯定会担心。
When I signed up, I didn't tell my father he was old enough to worry.
但后来出去的时候，我还是告诉他了。
But when I went out later, I told him.
他没说什么，就让我把防护措施做好。
He didn't say anything. Let me do the right thing.
我告诉他，口罩我戴了，手套我也戴了，我还有摩托车头盔，就连衣服，我都穿着连体的防护服。
I told him I was wearing a mask, I was wearing gloves, I had a motorcycle helmet and even clothes, and I was wearing overalls.
虽然有点热，但我都准备好了。
It's a little hot, but I'm ready.
车里还放了消毒片。
There's a disinfectant in the car.
说完，他就比较放心了，但还是提醒我要注意。
Then he was more at ease, but warned me to be careful.
等待接单的代敏最多的一天，我送了8个医护人员上下班。
On the day of waiting for orders, I sent eight paramedics to and from work.
他们的工作压力很大，每天都在不停的忙，看得出来，有的人很累。
They work under a lot of pressure and keep busy every day. I can see that some people are very tired.
我就想给他们提供一点方便，让他们早一点回家。
I just wanted to make it a little easier for them to get home earlier.
有一次，我早上六点半出门，7点接了一个人。
Once I went out at 6: 30 in the morning and picked up a man at 7: 00.
这是我第二次送他了，他给我带了一瓶牛奶，两个面包。
This is the second time I sent him. He brought me a bottle of milk and two loaves of bread.
他说，我知道现在外面没有早点卖，你可能还没吃饭，希望你不会因为我是医护人员，而嫌弃这些食物。
'I know there's no early sale out there and you probably haven't eaten yet, 'he said.' I hope you don't hate it because I'm a paramedics.
这样的事情很多，有人送口罩，有人送饮料。
There are a lot of things like that, people giving masks, people giving drinks.
其他专车志愿者也遇到过，他们很关心我们这些接送他们的人。
Other car volunteers have met, and they care a lot about those of us who pick them up.
虽然我们是自愿做这个事的，不求回报，但还是很感动。
Although we do this thing voluntarily, do not ask for return, but still very moved.
我其实没想到，会有这么多人来做这个志愿者，冒着风险，免费接送医护人员。
I didn't know that there would be so many people doing this volunteer, risking free transportation of medical personnel.
两个几百人的大群都满了，有的志愿者接不到人，还会有点遗憾，开玩笑说：今天生意不好啊。
Two large groups of several hundred people are full, some volunteers can not catch people, but also a bit of regret, joking: Business is not good today.
「他们从死神手里抢人」刘伟 30岁 男我是武汉本地人，从小到大一直在武汉，家人都在这，家里还有个三岁的女儿。
"They snatch men from death" Liu Wei 30-year-old man I was born in Wuhan, I have been growing up in Wuhan, my family are here, there is a three-year-old daughter.
今年春节本来计划和家里人去重庆旅游。
The Spring Festival was planned to go to Chongqing with my family.
一月中旬就听到一些传言，当时也没太当回事，因为还只是传言。
Some rumors were heard in mid-January and were not taken seriously at the time because they were just rumors.
20号以后，就开始紧张了，在手机上看到有新闻报道，微信、朋友圈都在说。
After the 20th, began to nervous, in the mobile phone to see news reports, micro-letters, friends are saying.
那时我就买了口罩和84消毒液放在家里了。
Then I bought a mask and put it at home with disinfectant 84.
封城之后，我听说在招募志愿者，接送医护人员，我就报名了。
After the siege, I heard that I was recruiting volunteers to pick up the paramedics, and I signed up.
你说危不危险，我当时没想那么多，看着报名的人很多，我就想，如果自己被选上了，就好好做这件事。
You said danger is not dangerous, I did not think so much, looking at the registration of a large number of people, I just think, if they were selected, do it well.
因为躲在家里，疫情也不会过去。
Because of hiding at home, the outbreak will not pass.
刚开始报名的时候，家里人是不支持的，主要是担心防护。
At the beginning of the registration, the family is not supportive, mainly for fear of protection.
我选上之后，出去跑了一两天，公司一开始就给我们发了防护服和口罩，措施都做得很到位，慢慢家里人也就接受了。
After I got elected, I went out for a day or two, and the company gave us protective clothing and a mask at the beginning. It was done very well and gradually the family accepted it.
今天早上出来到中午12点，接了6个，一天能接送9到10个。
This morning came out until 12: 00 noon, picked up 6, can carry 9 to 10 a day.
有的早上六七点就要上班，晚上很晚才回家，我接过最晚的一位，接近12点才回家。
Some go to work at six or seven in the morning and come home late at night. I pick up the last one and come home near twelve.
有的人住得很远，我上午接了一个，差不多快50公里，跨了两个区。
Some people live a long way, I picked up one this morning, almost 50 kilometers fast, across two districts.
「医护专车」的车辆和司机均进行了全面安全防护我问过一个医护人员，你怕不怕？他说，这是我的责任，我们现在是从死神手里抢人，能抢一个是一个。
I asked one of the paramedics if you're not afraid? It's my responsibility, he said. We're taking people from death now.
医院床位紧张，其实他们都很着急。
The hospital bed was tight. In fact, they were all worried.
武汉的每个人都在努力。
Everyone in Wuhan is working hard.
不管是医生、志愿者车队，还是街道工作人员，还是环卫，每个人都在付出。
Whether it be doctors, volunteer convoys, street workers, or sanitation, everyone is paying.
我是一个公司职员，原来一直是朝九晚五的，下班就陪女儿。
I am a company staff, has been working nine to five, after work with her daughter.
我女儿三岁了，现在她每天都要找爸爸，因为我最近总是不在家，她还没起床我就出门了，有时候回来比较晚，她都睡了。
My daughter is three years old, and now she has to find her father every day because I am always away from home recently. I go out before she gets up.
我只有偶尔才能刚好碰到她，她还太小，理解不了复杂的疫情，我只告诉她：「爸爸在做一件非常有意义的事。
I met her only occasionally. She was too young to understand the complex epidemic. I told her, "Dad is doing something very meaningful."
」没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
穿梭在疫区的摆渡人：武汉的每个人都在努力。
Ferrymen shuttling through the affected areas: Everyone in Wuhan is trying.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "穿梭在疫区的摆渡人：武汉的每个人都在努力";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by everyone in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "如果遇见一个下班的医生，跟他说句「加油」，他能感动好几天。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
