张定宇 一个病人的逆战。
Zhang Dingyu a patient of the war.
姚远。
Yao Yuan.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
张定宇常说，自己“太急了”。
Zhang Dingyu often said that he was "too urgent."
他的急迫感，来自于自己逐渐萎缩的运动神经元细胞，也来自于肆虐武汉城的新型冠状病毒，他想从死神手中抢夺回更多的生命。
His sense of urgency came from his dwindling motor neuron cells, as well as from the new coronavirus that is ravaging Wuhan City, and he wanted to snatch more lives from death.
张定宇很急。
Zhang Dingyu is in a hurry.
国家电视台拍摄他那天，他从门诊大厅、病房、值班室、会议厅、CT室疾速走过，脚步有些踉跄。
The day he was filmed on state television, he stumbled through the outpatient lobby, ward, duty room, conference room and CT room.
与医生护士们交谈时，语速极快。
Talk to the doctors and nurses very quickly.
一名护士采痰的操作有误，可能会影响样本的病毒检测结果，他当众发了火。
A nurse caught fire in public after picking up sputum in a manner that could affect the results of a virus test on the sample.
近一两年来，金银潭医院的医生护士们都知道，院长的脾气越来越急躁，腿脚也变得不太利索。
For almost a year or two, the doctors and nurses at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital knew that the dean had become increasingly irritable and that his legs and feet were becoming less agile.
感染科主任文丹宁回忆，张定宇走路时脚步高低不平，上下楼梯总是抓紧扶手，行动困难。
Director of Infection Wentining recalled that Zhang Dingyu walked with uneven steps, up and down the stairs always hold on to the handrail, difficult to move.
她问过许多次，他只说“膝关节动过手术”。
She had asked many times that he had only said "knee surgery."
等到这次疫情，张定宇不得已才坦白了病情，他患上了“渐冻症”，腿部肌肉正在逐渐萎缩、坏死。
By the time of the outbreak, Zhang had to confess, and he was suffering from "accretion," with his leg muscles contracting and necrosis.
图| 源自央视网新冠肺炎到来，急性子院长就更急了。
As a result of CCTV's arrival of the new crown pneumonia, the acute suburban dean is even more anxious.
“全院都知道，我性子急，嗓门大。
The whole court knows I'm quick and loud
”从医34年，张定宇已经是武汉传染病界的权威。
After 34 years as a doctor, Zhang Dingyu has been an authority on infectious diseases in Wuhan.
2019年12月29日，金银潭医院收治了首批7位不明原因肺炎患者。
On 29 December 2019, the first batch of seven patients with unexplained pneumonia was admitted to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
医护人员为病人做咽拭子检测，发现检测结果是阴性，肺部CT却显示异常，肺部斑点加大，病人病情持续加重。
The results were negative, but the pulmonary CT showed signs of abnormality, enlarged pulmonary spots and a steady increase in the patient's condition.
他们怀疑病毒通过下呼吸道进入肺泡，咽喉检查根本不起作用。
They suspect that the virus enters the alveoli through the lower respiratory tract and that a pharyngeal examination does not work.
第二天一早，张定宇紧急决策：加强消毒防护，腾退隔离病房，转移其他病人，调配院内医疗资源。
The next morning, Zhang Dingyu emergency decision-making: strengthen disinfection protection, vacate isolation ward, transfer other patients, allocate hospital medical resources.
同时带领医护人员采集7位病人的支气管肺泡灌洗液，送往中科院武汉病毒所进行检测。
At the same time, we collected bronchoalveolar lotion from 7 patients and sent it to Wuhan virus department of the Chinese Academy of Sciences for testing.
4天后，金银潭医院开辟了针对不明肺炎病例的隔离病区。
Four days later, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital opened a quarantined area for unidentified pneumonia cases.
张定宇的雷厉风行一度给同事们带来不少压力。
Zhang Dingyu's vigorous and resolute behavior once brought a lot of pressure to colleagues.
他们回忆：张定宇常常比换班的同事来得更早，追问当天收治病人的细节：当天收治的病人数、转走的病人数。
Zhang, they recall, often came earlier than his replacement colleagues, asking for details of the patients admitted that day: the number of patients admitted that day, the number of patients transferred.
一位医生给院长打电话反映新开的病区缺少人手，张定宇即刻带着护理部、后勤科室来现场协调。
A doctor called the dean to report a shortage of staff in the newly opened area, and Zhang immediately brought the nursing department and logistics department to coordinate the scene.
南三病区主任张丽总结说，“（这次）任务布置急、要求高，事无巨细，骂起人来都不留情面。
Zhang Li, director of the Southern Three Disease Group, concluded, "The assignment was urgent, demanding and undemanding, and the scolding was unkind.
”图 | 源自央视网现在回想，她说，“幸亏靠了他的暴脾气和果断。
"Thanks to his temper and determination," she says, looking back on CCTV.
”1月7日，中国疾控中心科研团队分离了张定宇和同事们收集的样本。
On January 7, the CDC research team separated samples collected by Zhang and his colleagues.
1月8日，国家卫建委公布，初步确认“新型冠状病毒”为此次疫情的病原。
January 8, the National Health Commission announced that the preliminary confirmation of the "new coronavirus" as the pathogen of the epidemic.
接着，疫情在武汉爆发。
Then the outbreak broke out in Wuhan.
金银潭医院作为传染病专科医疗机构，也是武汉首批开放的定点医院，收治的都是确诊的重症、危重症患者。
As a special medical institution for infectious diseases, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was also the first designated hospital in Wuhan.
春节期间，从其他医院转诊而来的病患数量急剧增加，ICU14张床位根本就是杯水车薪。
During the Spring Festival, the number of patients referred from other hospitals increased dramatically, and ICU 14 beds were a drop in the bucket.
张定宇把工作重心放在了开辟新的ICU病房、尽力收治更多病患上。
Zhang has focused his efforts on opening new ICU wards and trying to treat more patients.
硬扛了20多天后，1月24日，除夕夜，晚上8点，张定宇接到武汉市卫健委电话，得知：来自上海的316名医护人员将于凌晨2点乘专机抵达武汉，入驻金银潭医院。
After more than 20 days, on January 24, New Year's Eve, at 8 pm, Zhang Dingyu received a telephone call from the Wuhan Health Care Commission and learned that 316 medical personnel from Shanghai would arrive in Wuhan by special plane at 2 a.m. and be admitted to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
第二天，陆军军医大学医疗队接管金银潭2个病区，负责20名确诊患者的治疗。
The next day, the Army Medical University medical team took over two areas of gold and silver pool, responsible for the treatment of 20 confirmed patients.
上海医疗队正式接手金银潭医院老病房，共2个病区、80张床位。
The Shanghai Medical Team officially took over the old ward of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, with 80 beds in 2 sick areas.
截至当日，金银潭医院累计收治患者657人。
As at the same date, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital had treated 657 patients.
上海瑞金医院重症医学专家陈德昌教授，在所属病区首次开展在患者清醒状态下的ECMO体外膜肺氧合的治疗，取得了良好的效果。
Professor Chen Dechang, an expert in severe medicine at Shanghai Ruijin Hospital, has performed ECMO in vitro oxygenation for the first time in the patient's conscious state, and good results have been achieved.
上海市第一人民医院副院长郑军华对医护人员进行高效调配，带领医疗队在陌生环境中迅速开展工作。
Zhengjunhua, vice-president of Shanghai First People's Hospital, allocates medical staff efficiently and leads medical teams to work quickly in unfamiliar environments.
来自上海专家的倾囊相助，张定宇稍微安下心来，感激又钦佩。
From the experts in Shanghai to help Zhang Dingyu a little ease, gratitude and admiration.
这些来自上海、北京的医学专家团队中，不乏令他敬仰已久的业界前辈。
The teams of medical experts from Shanghai and Beijing are among those he has long admired.
张定宇行走不便，常常无法亲自接待，心有愧疚。
Zhang Dingyu walking inconvenience, often unable to receive personally, the heart has guilt.
不久后，他决定向大家坦白病情，自己确诊患上运动精神元病，也就是人们常说的“渐冻症”。
Before long, he decided to confess his illness, and he diagnosed it as a form of motor illness, often referred to as "phlegm."
这是一种罕见的绝症，目前为止，没有任何方法可以治愈。
This is a rare and incurable disease. So far, there is no cure.
患者会慢慢发展为全身肌肉萎缩和吞咽困难，直至产生呼吸衰竭而亡。
The patient will slowly develop muscle atrophy and dysphagia, until the onset of respiratory failure and death.
“性子急，是因为生命留给我的时间不多了。
"" I am impatient because life has not left me much time.
”早在2018年10月，张定宇久确诊了“渐冻症”。
As early as October 2018, Zhang Dingyu diagnosed "asymptomatic".
作为医生，他很清楚自己接下来要遭遇什么，疾病提前宣告了他人生的终点。
As a doctor, he was well aware of what lay ahead of him, and his illness predated his end.
他知道，随着全身肌细胞的逐渐萎缩，自己高大的身材会萎缩成小小的一团，先被困在轮椅上，然后被困在床上，凭眨眼和他人交流，会用上呼吸机，在胃里做造管，最后呼吸衰竭，迎来死亡。
He knows that as the body's muscle cells shrink, his stature will shrink into a tiny ball, confined to a wheelchair, then trapped in bed, interacting with others in the blink of an eye, using a ventilator, doing a tube in his stomach, and finally breathing down and dying.
每一位“渐冻症”病人，都是这样眼睁睁看着自己慢慢消逝的。
Every "phlegmatic" patient, is thus to see their own slowly disappearing.
剩下的时间越来越少，张定宇决定做点什么。
With so little time left, Zhang decided to do something.
他选择不对同事们公开生病的消息，不知情的同事们只觉得，在时间流逝过程中，院长的性子越来越急了，对待工作愈发容不得马虎。
He chose not to tell his colleagues about his illness, and unwitting colleagues felt that, as time went on, the dean became more and more impatient and less tolerant of his work.
2007年和2011年，张定宇曾随中国医疗队出征，先后赴往阿尔及利亚，巴基斯坦开展国际医疗援助。
In 2007 and 2011, Zhang Dingyu accompanied the Chinese medical team to Algeria, Pakistan to carry out international medical assistance.
2008年5月14日，四川汶川地震发生后的第三天，张定宇作为湖北省第三医疗队的负责人出现在重灾区什邡市，全力救治伤员。
In the town of Shifang, the town of Fang, the head of the third medical team in Hubei province, where the government has settled the wounded, the government said Wednesday.
这次新型冠状病毒的侵袭，是张定宇从业以来面临的最大挑战。
The attack of this new coronavirus is the biggest challenge Zhang Dingyu has faced since he started his career.
长期超负荷工作，他的身体也已不堪重负。
His health was overburdened with long hours of overwork.
一次采访中，他透露，最近2、3个月，他感觉到自己的臀大肌正在萎缩。
In an interview, he revealed that he had felt his gluteal muscles shrink over the past two or three months.
晚上睡觉时，他可以明显摸到自己关节囊和关节之间的间隙。
At night he could feel the gap between his knuckle sac and his joints.
肌细胞比自己预料中萎缩得还要快。
Myocytes shrank faster than they had expected.
在接受《面对面》节目的采访时，这位“渐冻症院长”表现出出人意料的乐观和坦荡，他预料自己以后会被固定在轮椅上，现在多做一点，以后或许能少留一些遗憾。
In an interview with Face to Face, the Abbess showed surprising optimism and magnanimity, anticipating that he would be confined to a wheelchair and now do more, perhaps with less regret.
他说：“所有人的终点都是死亡，而我只是知道了自己的终点可能不会离得太远，所以我想把这段时间用足、用好，不是一样可以再做一些事情吗？”图 | 张定宇在CCTV-13《面对面》1月14日，张定宇在武汉第四医院工作的妻子被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染。
"The end point for all of us is death, and I just knew my end point might not be too far away, so I wanted to spend enough time doing something else, right?" Zhang Dingyu was diagnosed with a new coronavirus infection at Wuhan's Fourth Hospital on January 14.
一向镇定的张定宇，突然慌了神。
Zhang Dingyu, always calm, suddenly panicked.
晚上，在开车去探望妻子的路上，张定宇哭了。
In the evening, Zhang Dingyu cried as he drove to see his wife.
相伴28年，那是最令张定宇感到害怕的一个晚上。
It was the most frightening night for Zhang Dingyu for 28 years.
坐在隔离病房里，张定宇陪妻子聊了会天。
Sitting in the isolation ward, Zhang Dingyu chats with his wife.
看着她呼吸窘迫，虚弱不堪的样子，张定宇十分痛苦。
Looking at her breathing embarrassment, weak appearance, Zhang Dingyu is very painful.
之后的3、4天，金银潭医院接诊的病人越来越多，张定宇分身乏术，实在顾不上再去探望妻子，他非常内疚，在后来的采访中说：“我也许是个好医生，但不是个好丈夫。
"I may be a good doctor, but I am not a good husband," Zhang said in a later interview, feeling guilty after receiving more patients and leaving him too weak to visit his wife.
”不久后，好消息传来，妻子在使用抗病毒药物后，病情有所好转。
Soon after, the good news came that his wife was getting better after taking antiviral drugs.
1月29日，她正式痊愈出院，回家休养。
On 29 January, she was fully discharged and returned home to recuperate.
2月3日，武汉市人力资源和社会保障局发布通告，为表彰张定宇同志的先进事迹，决定给予张定宇同志记功奖励。
On February 3, the Human Resources and Social Security Bureau of Wuhan issued a circular, in recognition of Comrade Zhang Dingyu's advanced deeds, decided to award Comrade Zhang Dingyu a commendation.
2月6日，湖北省人民政府决定给予张定宇记大功奖励。
February 6, Hubei Province People's Government decided to give Zhang Dingyu a merit award.
2月9日，农历十五。
February 9, the fifteenth day of the lunar calendar.
在中央电视台的元宵特别节目上，主持人水均益连线了正在前线的张定宇医生。
In the CCTV Lantern Festival special program, the host Shuijinyi connected to the front of Dr. Zhang Dingyu.
在白大褂的左胸上，张定宇别了一枚党徽。
In the white coat on the left breast, Zhang Dingyu parted a party emblem.
他说，感谢全国人民的驰援，我之前每天睡3小时，现在我可以睡6个小时了，“非常感谢大家，我的睡眠是全国人民给的。
"Thanks to the help from all over the country, I used to sleep three hours a day, but now I can sleep six hours," he said.
”截至10日晚，在武汉市金银潭医院以及驰援武汉的各地医护人员的努力下，医院累计收治病人1500余人，部分病患已顺利出院。
By the end of the night, more than 1,500 patients had been admitted to hospitals and some of them had been discharged successfully thanks to the efforts of medical staff from Wuhan city and the gold and silver pool hospital.
金银潭医院共有9名医护人员院内感染，一些已出院，没有重症案例。
There were 9 nosocomial infections in Au Tam Hospital. Some of them were discharged from the hospital.
这同张定宇早期的敏锐、雷厉风行的举措不无关系。
This is related to Zhang Dingyu's early acumen and vigorous action.
2月4日凌晨1点，张定宇到武汉客厅方舱医院，查看这里的筹备状况。
February 4 1: 00 a.m., Zhang Dingyu to Wuhan living room cabin hospital, to check the status of preparations here.
在网友上传的视频中，他一路蹒跚跛行，留给人们一个急匆匆的背影。
In the netizen uploads the video, he all the way hobbles limp, left people a hurriedly behind.
参考资料：武汉金银潭医院院长：身患绝症，妻子被感染，抗击疫情最前线奋战30余天——湖北日报记疫情“风暴眼”中武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇——新华社 武汉市金银潭医院院长张定宇：用渐冻的生命 托起信心与希望——湖北日报走近张定宇尘封10年的国际救援往事：枪林弹雨中，一个中国医生的无疆大爱——湖北日报张定宇 向极限挑战——CCTV3-END -撰文| 姚远编辑 | 崔玉敏。
Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Xinhua News Agency, approached Zhang Dingyu, the director of the Jintan Hospital in Wuhan, China's largest hospital.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
张定宇 一个病人的逆战。
Zhang Dingyu a patient of the war.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "张定宇 一个病人的逆战";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a patient with Zhang Dingyu.
var msg_desc = "风暴眼上的病人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at storm eye.
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
