那些储备的医用物资都去了哪儿？。
Where are the stocks of medical supplies going?
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
过去的十多年里，这个储备制度经历了2003年非典型性肺炎、2008年汶川地震和2009年甲型H1N1流感等一次次大考。
Over the past decade or so, the reserve system has undergone major examinations such as the SARS epidemic in 2003, the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 and the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in 2009.
然后就是2020年初的武汉疫情爆发，但从目前情况来看，医药物资仍有很大缺口。
Then came the Wuhan outbreak in early 2020, but there is still a huge gap in medical supplies.
文 |罗婷编辑 |糖槭武汉N95口罩、防护服等医疗物资持续缺乏，不时有人在问：供需缺口那么大，甚至连疫区都无法满足，国家除了储备粮食的粮仓，是不是也要有储备医药的药仓？实际上，我国医药储备制度已经存在近50年，不仅国家有储备，地方也有。
At times, people have asked: Is there such a big gap between supply and demand that even epidemic areas cannot be met that the country has a drug-storage bin in addition to grain depots? In fact, China's medical reserve system has existed for nearly 50 years, not only in China but also locally.
本就是为了重大灾情、疫情时使用。
This is for the major disaster, the use of the epidemic.
但目前口罩、防护服等用品的供给情况并不乐观。
But at present, the supply of masks, protective clothing and other supplies is not optimistic.
以防护服为例。
Take protective clothing for example.
按照25日新闻发布会上工信部副部长王江平的介绍，湖北每天需要10万件防护服。
Hubei needs 100,000 protective suits every day, according to Wang Jiangping, vice minister of industry and communications at a press conference on the 25th.
但据湖北省工信厅的通报，截至27日下午，湖北组织省级医药储备企业一共筹集了10.645万套。
However, as of the afternoon of July 27, the Hubei Provincial Medical Reserve Enterprise had raised 106.45 million units.
只能满足全省一天所需。
Can only meet one day's needs throughout the province.
截至25日，国家调动了1.4万件防护服。
As of 25 July, 14,000 protective clothing pieces had been mobilized by the State.
同样远远不足。
It is also far from adequate.
疫情还在爬坡阶段的当下，整个社会的应急储备及公共卫生反应能力都面临大考。
The epidemic is still in the uphill phase of the current society's emergency reserves and public health response capacity are facing a major test.
为什么医药储备制度没能解决问题？整个1月，湖北华润医药公司都在加班。
WHY THE MEDICAL RESERVE SYSTEM HAS NOT SOLVED THE PROBLEM? Hubei Resources Pharmaceuticals Inc. was working overtime throughout January.
公司的一位工作人员告诉《人物》，1月1号他们便监测到「整个武汉的发热病例非常多」。
A company official told People that on January 1 they had detected "a very high number of cases of fever throughout Wuhan."
在疫情未全面爆发前，他们已接到订单开始大量采购。
Prior to the outbreak, they had received orders to start making large purchases.
华润医药公司是一家经销商，从母公司华润集团拿药，也从全国各大医药企业购药。
China Resources Pharmaceutical Company is a distributor, from the parent company Hua Run Group medicine, but also from major pharmaceutical enterprises throughout the country.
一个月来，这家企业已经为湖北提供了2.1万件（箱）的医用物资，比如抗病毒药物、消毒液、听诊器、N95口罩和防护服。
In the past month, the company has supplied Hubei with 21,000 medical supplies, such as antiviral drugs, disinfectants, stethoscopes, N95 masks and protective clothing.
另一家企业湖北本土医药企业九州通同样如此，春节期间全员无休。
Another enterprise Hubei native medicine enterprise Jiuzhou Tongtong same, the Spring Festival period does not have the entire staff.
这两家企业有共同的身份——都是湖北为数不多的国家医药储备企业。
The two companies share a common identity - both are among the few state medical reserve companies in Hubei.
也是湖北前三强的医药经销商，每年为整个湖北省提供相当数量的医用物资。
Hubei is also the top three pharmaceutical dealers, each year for the entire Hubei Province to provide a considerable amount of medical supplies.
在这样的关键时刻，它们是医药物资供应的第一道防线。
They are the first line of defense for medical supplies at a critical time like this.
何为医药储备制度？这一制度始于1970年代，最初是为了战备，1997年国务院正式出台《国务院关于改革和加强国家医药储备管理工作的通知》规定，国家医药储备用于保障大灾、大疫等突发事件发生时药品、医疗器械能够及时、足量供应。
In 1997, the State Council issued the Circular of the State Council on the Reform and Strengthening of the Administration of the National Pharmaceutical Reserve, stipulating that the state medical reserve shall be used to guarantee the timely and sufficient supply of pharmaceuticals and medical instruments in the event of major disasters and epidemics.
2019年12月18日刚刚出台的 《中华人民共和国基本医疗卫生与健康促进法》对此也有提及。
Reference is also made to the Law of the People's Republic of China on Basic Health Care and Health Promotion of 18 December 2019.
第六十三条写到：国家建立中央与地方两级医药储备，用于保障重大灾情、疫情及其他突发事件等应急需要。
Article 63 states: The State shall establish a reserve of medicines at the central and local levels to meet emergency needs in case of major disasters, epidemics and other emergencies.
而工业和信息化部，是我国现在医药储备工作的主管部门。
And the Ministry of Industry and Informatization is now China's medical reserve work of the competent departments.
国家食药监的一位处长向《人物》透露，这次武汉疫情的国家物资储备组，由工信部牵头，食药监等部门也是成员单位。
A director of the State Food and Drug Administration told People that the Wuhan Outbreak of the National Materiel and Materials Reserve Group, led by the Ministry of Industry and Communications, and other departments are also members.
过去的十多年里，这个储备制度经历了2003年非典型性肺炎、2008年汶川地震和2009年甲型H1N1流感等一次次大考。
Over the past decade or so, the reserve system has undergone major examinations such as the SARS epidemic in 2003, the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 and the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in 2009.
然后就是2020年初的武汉疫情爆发，但从目前情况来看，医药物资仍有很大缺口。
Then came the Wuhan outbreak in early 2020, but there is still a huge gap in medical supplies.
华润医药的工作人员说，一个重要原因是——N95口罩、防护服这一类的医疗器械不属于湖北的医药储备重点，存储数量不多。
An important reason is that N95 masks, protective clothing and other medical devices are not key to Hubei's medical reserves and are not stored in large quantities, according to the company's staff.
该员工告诉《人物》，他们医药储备最多的，是一些抗病毒的药品和消毒药品，比如84消毒液和酒精，这些占了比较大的体量。
The employee told PEOPLE that the stocks of antiviral drugs and disinfectants, such as disinfectant 84 and alcohol, accounted for most of the stock.
「因为好生产，生产企业也多。
"Because good production, there are many production enterprises.
」口罩、防护服属于易耗品。
Masks and protective clothing are perishable.
「如果你存多了，这种易耗品就要面临过期的风险，如果不是这种大的疫情，实际上这些口罩和防护服很少能用得到。
"If you save too much, this perishable product is at risk of going out of date. If it were not for this major outbreak, these masks and protective clothing would have been virtually unavailable.
」再深究一层，在于存储成本。
A further layer is the cost of storage.
按规定，这些承储企业的库存总量不得低于计划总量的70%，企业要实行「动态库存」制，一方面要不断按计划购买、补充需要储备的药械，一方面又要在药品失效前将其卖出。
In accordance with regulations, the total stock of these enterprises must not be less than 70 percent of the total quantity of the plan.Enterprises are required to adopt a "dynamic inventory" system whereby they purchase and replenish the items they need to keep in reserve and sell them before the drugs become obsolete.
承储企业中国医药公司的一位负责人曾经在2008年接受《中国医药报》采访时说：「动态库存不是不简单，而是非常复杂。
"Dynamic inventory is not simple; it is very complicated," a head of China Pharmaceutical Company, a Chinese medicine company, told the China Medical Journal in 2008.
」如果药品过期了，那么这个损失需要企业自己承担。
"If the drug expires, the loss will have to be borne by the company itself.
华润公司的员工介绍，他们会拿到一些补贴，实际上还是要自己贴钱。
The employees at China Resources said they would get some subsidies, but would in fact have to subsidize themselves.
「这也是为什么央企必须成为一级经销商，因为民营企业不愿意干的事情，我们得干。
"That's why they have to be first-class distributors because private companies don't want to do things we have to do.
」但这种激励机制，也在一定程度上影响了企业存储口罩、防护服等易耗品的积极性。
But the incentive mechanism also has an impact on the willingness of companies to store consumable products such as masks and protective clothing.
更不幸的是，疫情爆发撞上春节，工厂停工。
More unfortunately, the outbreak hit the Spring Festival and the factory shut down.
华润公司是很早便得知消息，开始大量采购。
China Resources was informed of the news at an early stage and began to make large purchases.
但问题在于，大多数民营生产厂家并不知道，已经纷纷清库存准备过年。
But the problem is that most private manufacturers do not know, has been clearing inventory for the New Year.
武汉一停工企业春节期间临时召回员工生产防护用品图源人民日报新浪微博疫情爆发后，黄石便遇到了一个典型困境——1月25日，黄石第一次宣布有人确诊，且一下就确诊了31例，全城陷入恐慌，四处都在求购N95口罩。
2007-3-1 00: 00 Wuhan Shutdown Enterprises Recall Employees Producing Protective Products During the Spring Festival, Huang Shi encountered a typical dilemma after the outbreak of the Sina Weibo epidemic in the People's Daily on January 25, when Huang first announced a diagnosis and confirmed 31 cases.
黄石口罩厂本就不多，储备明显不足，据华润的那位员工称，当时民营企业不愿意把口罩供给黄石市的鄂东医疗集团（一个包括了黄石市中心医院、中医医院、妇幼保健院的医疗集群）。
Huangshi mask factories are small, stocks are clearly inadequate, according to China Resources employees, private enterprises were reluctant to supply Huangshi City Huangshi City Huodong Medical Group (a medical cluster that includes the Huangshi City Central Hospital, the Chinese Medical Hospital, and the Maternal and Child Health Care Home).
最后华润高价从民营企业收购，然后低价供给了黄石。
Finally, China Resources high prices from private enterprises to buy, and then low-cost supplies Yellowstone.
「你要应急生产，要在春节期间动员工人来加班，你的原料、人工成本全部涨上去，作为生产企业，不能自己来承担，只能涨价。
"You have to give birth on an emergency basis, you need to mobilize workers to work overtime during the Spring Festival. Your raw materials and labor costs have all gone up.
我们就只能自己硬撑着买下来，采购的价格远远高于供应的价格。
We can only force ourselves to buy it, and the price is much higher than the price of the supply.
」按照华润这位工作人员的意思也就是，他们亏本了。
"According to Hua Run, the staff member meant they were losing money.
这是当时黄石的情况。
This was the case with Yellowstone.
最近这些天，政府接管了大量民营口罩厂，并派专人入驻。
In recent days, the government has taken over a large number of private mask factories, and sent staff into the site.
这样的情况也许不会再发生。
This may not happen again.
但储备企业始终处于两难之中：一旦疫情暴发，须大量高价购进药械，一旦疫情解除则损失巨大。
But reserve companies remain in a dilemma: once an outbreak breaks out, large quantities of high-priced ordnance are needed, and once the outbreak is over, the losses are enormous.
这样的例子在非典期间就发生过。
Such an example occurred during SARS.
济南市医药站的工作人员曾在接受《经济参考报》采访时回忆，非典期间医药站根据指令，大量购进隔离服等一次性防护用品，但并没有动用多少，疫情解除后大量积压。
Staff at Jinan Medical Station told the Economic Reference News that during SARS, medical stations had been ordered to purchase large quantities of disposable protective equipment such as quarantine suits, but little was done to eliminate the backlog.
这些产品日常的需求量很少，有效期内根本无法找到销路，只能报废。
These products daily demand is very small, within the validity period can not find a market, can only scrap.
2014年，曾有一篇发表单位为财政部财政科学研究所的论文，分析了医药存储体系的利弊，称越来越多的迹象表明，这个体系从战备时期转轨到市场经济条件下，日渐僵化和不适应，看起来像一个「软骨病人」。
In 2014, a paper by the Institute of Fiscal Sciences of the Ministry of Finance analysed the pros and cons of the medical storage system, stating that there were growing indications that the system was becoming increasingly rigid and unadapted to the conditions of a market economy from a period of war to one of "soft bone disease."
这位作者翻阅了财政部的大量资料，得出结论——全国的医药储备情况都不容乐观，「实际情况是，除个别省份外，地方医药储备普遍薄弱」。
The author reviewed a large amount of data from the Ministry of Finance and concluded that the national stock of medicines was not encouraging and that "the reality is that, with the exception of a few provinces, local medical reserves are generally weak."
这与武汉疫情爆发后的现象相符，在湖南、河南、四川甚至北京，甚至是最好的医院，都贴出了求助公告。
This is in line with what happened after the outbreak of the Wuhan epidemic, with help notices posted in Hunan, Henan, Sichuan and even Beijing, even in the best hospitals.
「是不是尽责、有经验，基本素质足够好」如果国家医药储备不能解决这个问题，那地方的其他职能部门是否能有储备？一些人把疑问投向了2018年成立的应急管理体系，从中央应急管理部到各省厅、市局。
If the national medical stockpile cannot solve this problem, will the rest of the local functionaries have reserves? Some have turned to the Emergency Management System, which was set up in 2018, from the Central Emergency Management Department to departments, offices and municipalities.
湖北某县应急管理局的一位官员告诉《人物》，从职能来看，应急管理局主要是面对重大自然灾害，比如火灾、防旱防涝、安全生产等。
'Functionally, the Emergency Management Bureau is dealing with major natural disasters, such as fire, drought and flood prevention, and production safety, 'an official from an emergency bureau in a county in Hubei province told People.
这一次的疫情，县里应急指挥部最初是卫健委在牵头，应急管理局只是辅助。
This time, the county emergency command is initially led by the Health Wei Commission, the Emergency Management Agency is only a supplement.
「虽说是辅助，但也没休息过。
"I didn't get any rest, though it was a help.
」这个局从2018年成立，仅仅运行一年，准备还不充分。
The bureau, set up in 2018 and operating for just one year, is ill-prepared.
这位官员说，他们平常储备不多，有一部分口罩，但在这种情况下根本不够用。
The official said they usually don't have enough supplies and some face masks, but that's not enough in the circumstances.
「更缺的是医用器械，像防护服和护目镜，是完全没有的。
"What's more, medical devices, such as protective clothing and goggles, are completely missing.
」这次疫情里，应急管理局、医院等基层机构都是靠上级拨发物资。
"In this outbreak, emergency management authorities, hospitals and other grass-roots organizations are relying on higher-level distribution of materials.
这位官员介绍，该县比较大的问题仍是试剂、口罩和防护服短缺。
The county still faces a shortage of reagents, masks and protective clothing, the official said.
「一开始是国家统一拨给湖北省，武汉都不够用的时候，其他市里面就没有。
"Initially the state allocated to Hubei Province, Wuhan is not enough time, there are no other cities.
拨到市里面，先给中心城区使用，区里不够的话，下面县里就没有了。
Diving into the city, first for the use of the central city, if the district is not enough, the county is no longer.
所以直到现在，县里都不够用。
So until now, the county was short of money.
」最后是因为南方的专家团队到了此地，带着试剂盒和医疗器械，他们才最终获得了确诊病例的机会。
Finally, because a team of experts from the South arrived with kits and medical equipment, they were finally given a chance to confirm the case.
这距离白岩松与钟南山在新闻中公布武汉疫情，已又过去了几天时间。
The distance between Baiyansong and Zhong Nan Shan in the news announced the Wuhan epidemic, has been a few days.
而直到现在，该县的防护服等物资还是相当短缺。
Until now, the county's protective clothing and other supplies are still quite short.
另一个与疫情直接相关的部门是疾控，我们无法直接从公开资料中得知这一次湖北疾控体系物资储备的情况。
Another department directly related to the epidemic is disease control, we can not directly from the open data to know this time Hubei disease control system material reserve.
但据《南方周末》报道，2019年12月，疫情爆发前夕，湖北疾控中心工作人员曾发表论文称，2014-2016年，湖北省所有医院储备的实物价值各年度分别为35.84万元、41.09万元和67.01万元。
But in December 2019, just before the outbreak, Hubei CDC staff issued a paper saying that the in-kind value of all hospital reserves in Hubei Province was 358,400 yuan, 410,900 yuan and 670,100 yuan in 2014-2016, respectively, according to Southern Weekend.
2008年及2017年，还有两篇论文研究了湖北省疾控系统的物资储备状况。
In 2008 and 2017, there are two papers on the state of the disease control system in Hubei Province.
2008年，华中科技大学一位硕士研究生曾对湖北省县级疾控机构的工作人员做过一个调查，调查显示，疾控人员认为最应该储备的物资就是消杀药品和器械、个人防护用品（如服装、口罩和脚手套等）。
In 2008, a master's degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology conducted a survey of staff of county-level disease control agencies in Hubei Province. The survey showed that the materials that disease controllers believe should be stored most are antiseptic drugs and devices, personal protective equipment (such as clothing, masks and foot gloves).
作者分析，「这可能是与SARS对大家产生的深刻影响相关」。
"This may be related to the profound impact of SARS on people," the authors analyze.
作者还在文末写到：「（疾控系统）未形成一个完整的应急机制……应急物资的常规储备有待进一步完善。
"[The disease control system] does not form a complete emergency mechanism... [The] conventional stockpile of emergency supplies needs to be further improved," the author wrote at the end.
」9年后的另一次调查，情况并未好转。
Nine years later, the situation did not improve.
一位武汉科技大学的硕士研究生对湖北省疾控中心的物资储备做了调查，查了物资清单、出入库账目和实物储备情况，发现「现有符合要求应急物资储备占要求数量总和的49%，物资储备齐全率为49%。
A postgraduate student from Wuhan University of Science and Technology investigated the material reserve of the CDC in Hubei Province, checked the material list, the record of storage from and to and from stores, and found that "the existing qualified emergency stock accounts for 49% of the total quantity required, and the material reserve ratio is 49%.
」结论为：「物资储备不足」、「本级财政无公共卫生应急准备专项经费储备」。
The conclusions were: "insufficient material reserves" and "no special reserve for public health emergency preparedness at this level."
新余市人民医院防护服耗尽，医护人员身穿雨衣防护图源网络亲历2003年非典、担任过中国疾控中心副主任的杨功焕告诉《人物》，到了武汉这样一个级别的疫情，单个部门已经不足以解决问题，「还是要靠地方政府整体统筹」，包括公共卫生，也包括后勤。
At a level like Wuhan, individual departments are no longer sufficient to solve the problem. "It is up to the local government as a whole," including public health and logistics, said Yang Gonghwan, deputy director of the China CDC and a veteran of SARS in 2003.
当出现物资供不上的情况，「应该是政府出面协调，各个部门来响应。
When supplies are not available, "it should be the government that coordinates and the departments that respond."
」到具体的执行层面，哪个部门负责解决物资，省市之间都有所不同。
At the implementation level, which department is responsible for solving the material problem varies from province to province.
比如在四川，是省经信委去生产液氯的企业订货。
In Sichuan, for example, it is ordered by enterprises producing liquid chlorine by the provincial economic commission.
有的地方是省应急厅去口罩厂订货，还有的，是物资局发文到工厂来「国家征用」。
Some places are the provincial emergency department to go to the mask factory to order, and still others, the material bureau sent a letter to the factory to "national requisition."
杨功焕认为，疫情能否控制，物资是否能很好调配，最核心的就是当地的具体执行。
Yang Kung-hwan believes that whether the outbreak can be controlled, whether the materials can be well deployed, the most important thing is the concrete implementation of the local.
她说：「这也跟实际的人有很大的关系。
"It has a lot to do with real people," she said.
第一，他是不是尽责。
First, is he conscientious.
第二，他是不是有经验。
Second, is he experienced or not.
第三，他是不是基本素质够好，能够在这个过程中迅速地调整，这都考验一个地方政府的执政能力，是很关键的地方。
Third, whether he is good enough to be able to adjust quickly in the process is a test of a local government's ability to govern, which is crucial.
」在采访中，一位采访对象提到了湖北一位基层官员感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的故事。
In the interview, one interviewee told the story of a grassroots official in Hubei province infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
这位县级政协主席去市里开会，遇到了从武汉回来的官员，相邻坐着，就被感染了。
The county-level CPPCC chairman went to a meeting in the city where he met officials returning from Wuhan and sat down next to him, infected.
那几天召开的会议，经常是全场几十人，门窗紧闭，只有两三人戴口罩。
The meetings of those days were often attended by dozens of people, with doors and windows shut and only two or three wearing masks.
戴的人，还会被同僚嘲笑。
Dai people, but also be ridiculed by colleagues.
基层官员们对此类事件的认知与处置水平，都还需要提升。
The level of awareness and handling of such incidents among officials at the grassroots level needs to be improved.
响应速度1月27日晚上，一位参与火神山援建的某公司员工向《人物》讲了她的遭遇。
Response Speed On the night of January 27, a company involved in the building of fire god staff told "People" about her experience.
当他们的援建团队到了武汉，武汉政府没有发口罩，但工人们必须有口罩才能开工。
When their construction team arrived in Wuhan, the Wuhan government did not wear masks, but the workers had to wear masks to start.
她被逼无奈，发了个朋友圈，结果被一位重庆网友看到了。
She was forced to be helpless, made a circle of friends, as a result of a Chongqing netizen saw.
她们是一起追星认识的。
They got to know each other together.
这位重庆的追星女孩，最近在做志愿者，手上积累了很多资源。
This Chungking star-chasing girl, who recently volunteered, has accumulated a lot of resources.
她拉了个群，先是进来一个上海人，说有口罩，但是送到武汉要两天，时间不符，上海人退群了。
She pulled a group, first came in a Shanghainese, said there are masks, but sent to Wuhan two days, the time is not appropriate, Shanghai people retired.
又来了个广州商家，发货时间合适但型号不对，退群了。
Here comes another Guangzhou merchant, the delivery time is suitable but the model is wrong, has retired from the group.
又来了个西安人，还是发货时间不行，退群了。
Another Xi'an people, or the delivery time is not possible, out of the group.
最后是一个汉口人进群，条件都符合，给了100个口罩应急。
Finally, a Hankou people into the group, the conditions are met, gave 100 masks emergency response.
完成了。
It's done.
整个过程高效、简洁、点对点。
The whole process is efficient, concise and point-to-point.
但最后，他们想开车去拿口罩，因为车没有通行证，无法在武汉市区行驶，又被困住了。
In the end, however, they wanted to drive to get a mask because they could not drive in Wuhan city because they did not have permits and were trapped again.
几百公里外，同一时间，湖南省常德市第一人民医院发布公告，向社会征求口罩、防护服等各种物资，最紧缺的就是防护服。
A few hundred kilometers away, at the same time, the First People's Hospital in Changde City, Hunan Province, issued a notice asking the community for masks, protective clothing and other materials, the most scarce is protective clothing.
负责征集的工作人员说，整个常德市只有他们一个单位储备有防护服，大概有500套。
Staff in charge of the collection said they were the only unit in Changde with protective clothing, about 500 units.
因为只有在大型传染病和突发公共卫生事件时才需要这么高级别的防护，他们平常储存并不多。
Because such a high level of protection is required only in the case of major infectious diseases and public health emergencies, they usually do not have large stockpiles.
这几百件衣服，从年前撑到现在，实在撑不住了。
These few hundred pieces of clothing, from the year before to the present, really can not sustain.
在平常这件事可以找卫健委，但现在工厂没开工，常德市卫健委也没有办法。
In normal times this matter can look for health care committee, but now the factory did not start, Changde City health committee has no way.
年初五发热门诊一开，形势更严峻。
At the beginning of May fever clinic opened, the situation is more serious.
那位负责征集的工作人员说，「如果卫健委能解决，我们也不会用这种方式。
"If the health care committee could solve this problem, we wouldn't use it," said the recruitment agent.
」一位曾经在北京药监局工作过的人士告诉《人物》，按照政府体系，如果出现应急响应，施工单位需要口罩，需要先找政府，政府应急办的工作人员找到卫健委，卫健委再传达给负责医疗器械的科室，负责医疗器械的科室再发文给采购供应商，采购供应商再去找代理商，代理商再找工厂。
A person who worked for the bureau told People that under the government system, if an emergency response occurs, the construction unit needs a mask and needs to seek advice from the government. Emergency workers from the government emergency department find the committee, which then passes it on to the medical device department, which sends letters back to the supplier, who then goes to the agent, who in turn looks for a factory.
工厂生产完了科室开车去拖，再一级级送到真正需要的人手中。
The factory finished the production department to drag the car, and then a level to the people who really need it.
这个系统不仅仅在同级政府间运行，也在各级政府间运行。
The system operates not only at the peer-to-peer intergovernmental level, but also at the intergovernmental level.
她打了个比方，比如北京某个区县发生了突发应急事件，区县没有足够资源了，可以申请启动更高一级响应，让北京市来调动全市的资源。
She cited, for example, a sudden-onset emergency in a county in Beijing, where the county didn't have enough resources to apply for a higher-level response to mobilize the city's resources.
如果北京市也无法满足，再启动更高一级响应，民政部来管，全国调用资源。
If Beijing is also unable to meet, then start a higher level of response, the Ministry of Civil Affairs to manage, the national mobilization of resources.
过去，这个体系可以流畅运转。
In the past, the system worked smoothly.
特别是在信息不通畅的年代，某个地区的短缺不为人知，最后还是会由上级行政单位解决。
Especially in the age of poor information, the shortage of a region unknown, will eventually be resolved by higher administrative units.
但武汉疫情的特殊之处在于，疫情速度太快，爆发强度太大，考验了行政速度。
But Wuhan epidemic is unique in that the epidemic is too fast, the intensity of the outbreak too large, tested the administrative speed.
而互联网信息交换速度之快、调用资源能力之强，叠加公民的参与热情及行动力，也许会比行政速度跑得更快。
And the speed of Internet information exchange, the ability to mobilize resources, superimpose the enthusiasm and action of citizens, may run faster than administrative speed.
这次武汉疫情中，武大、华科等高校的校友会迅速并成规模地募集了大量物资。
During the Wuhan epidemic, the alumni associations of Wuhan University, Huaco and other colleges and universities raised large amounts of materials quickly and on a large scale.
一位武大校友会的志愿者这些天会在睡前写些心得，在1月28日晚上，募集资源的第4天，她总结了自己「专业医疗买手」的工作流程：先看各种型号-请专家鉴别-物流对接（国内顺丰、菜鸟，海外报关）-火速对接到急需的医院-打款签合同-等待物流单-处理后续问题。
On the evening of January 28, the fourth day of resource collection, she summed up the work flow of her "Professional Medical Purchaser": first look at various models - please ask experts to identify - link (domestic Shun Fung, Noodle, Overseas Declaration) - rush to the hospital receiving the urgent need - sign the contract - wait for the logistics list - to deal with follow-up questions.
繁琐的流程一个人便可以完成。
A cumbersome process can be accomplished by one person.
她还分享了这个民间自组织网络里极具凝聚力的细节。
She also shared the cohesiveness of the web of civic self-organization.
美国、中东、拉美等各路人在前线采买；正在发愁洛杉矶的货源怎么回国时就有朋友发来一个链接，是洛杉矶回国的物流协助。
The United States, the Middle East, Latin America and other passersby on the front line; worried about how Los Angeles supplies back home when a friend sent a link, Los Angeles back home logistics assistance.
前文所提到的参与火神山援建的某公司员工，在看到自己公司向武汉运输相关建筑物资的货运火车空了一个车厢时，也会自发询问武汉志愿者是否有物资要帮忙运输。
The staff of a company involved in the construction of Mount Huoshen, mentioned above, will spontaneously ask Wuhan volunteers if they have any supplies to help transport when they see an empty carriage in a freight train carrying construction-related materials to Wuhan.
但这两个系统并非独立运行，有许多发生碰撞的时刻。
But the two systems do not work independently, and there are many collisions.
1月25日上午，武大校友会北美分会就把一批口罩送到了武汉。
On the morning of January 25, the North American branch of WU Alumni Association sent a batch of masks to Wuhan.
这是他们的第一批物资，募捐了40万美元在美国买的，用东航专线回国，又联系了大使馆和小米公司运输，「每一天都在和时间赛跑」，但最终送到疾控部门时，却因为口罩不达标而被拒收了。
This was their first batch of supplies, raised $400,000 to buy in the United States, returned on the China Eastern route, contacted the embassy and millet company, "raced against time every day," but was eventually sent to the CDC only to be turned down for failing to meet the standards.
武汉大学深圳校友物资捐赠统计清单图源武汉大学深圳校友会微信公众号1月27日深夜，《人物》拨通国家疾控中心原副主任杨功焕的电话，也想问问她，亲历过SARS，又曾在一个这么重要的岗位上任职，她怎么看我们当下的医药储备体系，这个体系在武汉疫情中表现如何？在物资储备方面，我们应该怎么应对这样的大型公共卫生事件？但事实上，杨功焕说，她认为物资并不是最关键的问题，最关键的是要说真话。
Wu Han University Shenzhen Alumni Materials Donation Statistics Chart source Wuhan University Shenzhen Alumni Association Weixin Public Call January 27 Late at night, People dialed the former deputy director of the National CDC Yang Kun-hwan.
「没有在1月10号之前把疫情告诉大家，这显然是对有效控制疫情不利的。
"The failure to report the outbreak to the public by January 10 is clearly not conducive to effective control of the outbreak," he said.
武汉之所以封城，当然是有点失控了，这是我们不愿意看到的。
Wuhan, of course, is a bit out of control, which we do not want to see.
」她解释愿意一次次接受采访的原因：「SARS期间我们学到的最大的教训，就是要让疫情透明，要让大家知道。
She explained why she was willing to be interviewed again and again: "The biggest lesson we learned during SARS was to make the epidemic transparent and known to all.
说真话，是应对这种大型公共卫生事件里非常关键的一条。
Telling the truth is a crucial part of dealing with such a large public health event.
这是非常非常关键的，我希望能自始至终让大家记住这一条，我觉得怎么强调都不过分。
This is very, very critical, and I hope to keep this one in mind from beginning to end, and I don't think I can overstate it.
」没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些储备的医用物资都去了哪儿？。
Where are the stocks of medical supplies going?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那些储备的医用物资都去了哪儿？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Where did all that medical equipment in stock go? & quot;;
var msg_desc = "N95口罩、防护服这一类的医疗器械不属于湖北的医药储备重点，存储数量不多。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; N95 masks, protective clothing and other medical equipment are not part of Hubei's medical stockpile, and are stored in small quantities.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
