武汉一线送奶工：我们只能相互依靠。
Wuhan first-line milkman: We can only rely on each other.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
新冠肺炎疫情下的2020年农历新年，被封在武汉这座城内的不仅有当地市民，还有数以万计的外来务工人员。
In the 2020 Lunar New Year following the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the city was sealed off not only by local citizens but also by tens of thousands of migrant workers.
他们没有选择返乡，而是选择成为这座城市的坚守者，继续维持城市系统的运转。
Instead of returning home, they chose to remain the city's stalwarts, continuing to run the city's system.
一边忙碌，一边观察，他们亲历着武汉或宏大或细微的变化。
While busy, while observing, they experience Wuhan or great or subtle changes.
送奶工胡学军是其中一位。
Hu Xuejun, a milkman, was one of them.
封城后，他比以往更频繁地出现在街上，开着2米7长的电动冷藏车，一箱一箱地给当地的医院送酸奶。
After the siege, he appeared more frequently on the streets, driving 2. 7 meters long electric refrigerated trucks, boxes of yoghurt delivered to local hospitals.
新冠肺炎疫情发生后，他所在的蒙牛集团决定向疫区捐赠乳制品，它们将被运送到数千家医院，运到抗击疫情的前线。
After the outbreak, his group decided to donate dairy products to affected areas, which will be transported to thousands of hospitals to the front line of the epidemic.
迄今，在武汉，胡学军已经跑过了7家医院。
So far, Hu Xuejun has run through seven hospitals in Wuhan.
他在网上看到，益生菌对人的身体有好处。
He saw on the Internet that probiotics are good for the body.
他有个质朴的愿望，一线的医护人员喝到他送的酸奶，能够增强抵抗力，救更多的人。
He has a simple desire, the front-line medical staff to drink the yoghurt he sent, can strengthen resistance, save more people.
胡学军在武汉生活了10年。
Hu Xuejun lived in Wuhan for 10 years.
他喜欢这里，觉得哪儿都挺好，但疫情发生后，一夜之间，人们的距离拉开好远，原本开放的城市，变得冰冷封闭。
He loved it here and thought it was good everywhere, but suddenly, after the outbreak, people were far apart, and the city that was once open became cold and closed.
往年这个时候，他会回到河南商丘的老家，陪伴在父母妻儿身边，一起点燃新年的烟花。
This time of year, he will return to his hometown of Shangqiu, Henan province, to accompany his parents and children and light the fireworks together.
今年，他执拗地做了决定，要留在武汉，把手里的酸奶送完。
This year, he made a stubborn decision to stay in Wuhan and deliver the yogurt.
以下是胡学军的自述：文｜林念编辑｜槐杨11月23号，武汉封城。
The following is Hu Xuejun's self-report: Wen Lin Nan, editor of yeg locust Yang, wuhan's city, November 23.
从那天开始，我们往医院送捐赠的酸奶。
From that day on, we sent donated yoghurt to the hospital.
我去了第四医院、新华医院、金银潭医院，到现在已经去过7个大大小小的医院了。
I went to the Fourth Hospital, Xinhua Hospital, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. So far, I have visited seven large and small hospitals.
封城后，尤其初二开始，武汉变得特别空。
After sealing the city, especially the beginning of the second day of junior high school, Wuhan became particularly empty.
往常我去配送货，一些核心区域商圈总是堵车。
Usually I go to the delivery of goods, some core regional business circles are always blocked.
现在街上一路畅通，不管走商圈还是主干道，都非常安静，看不到什么人。
The streets were clear now, and the streets were very quiet, with no one in sight, either in the business circle or on the main roads.
偶尔看到人，走在路上也非常匆忙，低着头，人与人之间没有什么可以沟通的机会，距离越来越远。
Occasionally saw the person, walks in the road is also very hurriedly, lowers the head, between the person has no opportunity to communicate, the distance is getting further and further away.
以前武汉人与人的接触不是这个样子的。
Wuhan people in the past and human contact is not like this.
开着车，我把酸奶送到医院的食堂或者后勤部门。
Driving, I take yogurt to the hospital canteen or back office.
送货的数量是根据医护人员规模来做匹配的，大医院就送得比较多，比如人数在2000到3000人，我就送3000份或者4000份。
The number of deliveries is matched according to the size of the staff. Large hospitals deliver more, say 2,000 to 3,000 people. I deliver 3,000 or 4,000.
在一家医院的食堂，蒙牛一线员工给医护人员分发酸奶到医院去，肯定会恐惧。
In a hospital canteen, the front-line staff of Mengniu distributed yoghurt to medical staff to the hospital.
公司给我们配了口罩、消毒液、酒精，个人防护还可以。
The company has equipped us with masks, disinfectant, alcohol, personal protection is OK.
出门前，我戴上口罩和一次性手套，还会备几个口罩放身上。
Before I go out, I put on a mask and disposable gloves, but also a few masks put on the body.
口罩有两种，一种是N95的，一种是一次性的。
There are two kinds of masks, one is N95 and one is disposable.
我们这种终端作业的人要搬东西，还要来回跑动，戴N95，呼吸很困难，所以我们习惯戴两个一次性口罩，走到靠近医院的区域，再多戴上一层。
We end up moving things back and forth, wearing N95, and breathing is difficult, so we're used to wearing two disposable masks, walking to areas close to the hospital and putting on one more layer.
有天去第四医院的古田院区，刚好碰上一起纠纷。
One day I went to the courtyard of the Fourth Hospital and had a dispute.
医生站在那里，穿着防护服，戴着口罩。
The doctor was standing there, wearing protective clothing and a mask.
旁边躺着尸体，十几个人围着，大概是病人家属，有几个冲过去和医生纠缠在一起，还把医生的防护服给撕破了。
Beside them lay the dead body, surrounded by a dozen people, probably family members of the patient, several of whom rushed to entangle themselves with the doctor and tore his suit.
这个事就发生在我眼前，那个场面，我印象很深刻。
It happened right in front of my eyes and I was very impressed with the scene.
我那时候觉得，医生真的特别不容易。
I thought at the time that doctors were really not easy.
一个医生肯定不愿意看到患者去世。
A doctor certainly doesn't want to see a patient die.
家属失去亲人的感受，我也能够理解。
I can understand how it feels when a family member loses a loved one.
看到这种场景，我心里很害怕，也觉得这种环境下，大家都不够理智。
Seeing this scene, I was very scared, but also felt that under such circumstances, people are not rational enough.
我不知道能做什么，还是去送酸奶。
I don't know what to do, so I'll go get yogurt.
酸奶送到医生护士手上的时候，他们都非常疲惫，但是他们拿到的时候还是开心的。
When yogurt was delivered to the doctors and nurses, they were all very tired, but they were happy when they got it.
他们戴着口罩，穿着防护服，和我们隔开了至少一米，但你能感觉到那种真诚。
They were wearing masks and protective clothing, at least a meter away from us, but you could feel that sincerity.
不是说我们从小被教导的那种客气，而是非常真诚地和你说「谢谢」。
Not that we were taught to be polite when we were young, but that we said "thank you" to you very sincerely.
我就会说，「你们是一线的战斗人员，我做这个行业帮不了什么忙，但我就想给你们带来一些身体的健康。
I would say, "You are the front-line fighters, I can't help you in this business, but I just want to bring you some physical health."
」这是我最近说得最多的一句话。
"That's the most recent thing I've said.
我很感谢医生们，想尽一下自己的微薄之力。
I am grateful to the doctors for trying to do their part.
从除夕到现在，我一直都没有好好休息过。
I haven't had a good rest since New Year's Eve.
做终端，压力非常大，医院的物资也非常紧缺。
To be a terminal, the pressure is very high, hospital supplies are also very scarce.
以前搬货8个小时，我会感觉特别累，但现在我一天干12小时，甚至20个小时，都没觉得累，只想尽快把这些酸奶送到医生护士手上，他们喝到了，能放开点脾胃，多吃点东西，提高自己的抵抗力。
I used to feel very tired after eight hours of moving, but now I'm working 12 hours or even 20 hours a day and I don't feel tired. I just want to get the yoghurt to the doctor and nurse as soon as possible.
有时从早上忙到晚上八九点，想着要歇歇吃点饭了，但是把货送到医院，听到医生护士说「谢谢」的时候，又想，要快点再送下一家。
Sometimes from morning till 8: 00 pm, thinking of taking a break for dinner, but when I heard the doctor and nurse say "thank you," I thought, "I want to send the next one soon.
胡学军2我是河南商丘人，大学毕业后就到了武汉，今年刚好是我在武汉的第10年，做蒙牛酸奶的终端配送员，一般是从库房往商超送奶。
Hu Xuejun 2 I am a Shangqiu people in Henan Province, after graduation from university to Wuhan, this year happened to be my 10th year in Wuhan, do Mengniu yogurt terminal distributor, generally from the warehouse to send milk.
我喜欢这里，天天跑来跑去，很熟了，武汉的每个地方我都觉得特别好。
I like here, running around every day, very familiar, Wuhan every place I feel particularly good.
23号那天，送完货已经凌晨3点多了，突然看到有人给我转发了一条消息，说武汉要封城，所有人员不能进出。
On the 23rd it was after 3: 00 in the morning after the delivery of the goods, I suddenly saw a message forwarded to me that Wuhan want to close the city, all personnel can not enter and leave.
看到信息后，我预感今年的销售会有压力，当时就决定春节不回老家了。
After seeing the information, I had a presentiment that this year's sales would be under pressure, then decided not to return home for the Spring Festival.
商超最好的几天生意都在过年那会儿，所以我们都在这个节点备货，今年也比往年准备得更充分，订单节奏、销售节奏，都掌握得特别好。
Business was at its best for the past few days, so we were all on hand at this point, and this year was better prepared than usual, with a particularly good rhythm of orders and sales.
除夕前我们每天都工作到很晚，就是想着赶紧把所有的货送完，能早点回老家。
Before New Year's Eve, we worked very late every day, just thinking of hastening to deliver all the goods, can return home earlier.
没想到碰上这个情况。
I didn't expect this.
孩子幼儿园放假后，已经先回老家了，媳妇跟我在一起。
After the children's kindergarten holidays, has gone home first, daughter-in-law with me.
我让她先回去，她说，如果我不回，她也就不回了。
I told her to go back first, she said. If I don't come back, she won't.
除夕那天，我们俩就在武汉，超市买了点菜和肉，回去吃了顿饭，看了春晚。
On New Year's Eve, we were in Wuhan, the supermarket to buy a la carte and meat, back to eat dinner, watched the Spring Festival Gala.
吃完饭，我们跟在老家的父母、孩子视频。
After dinner, we followed our parents and children back home video.
孩子说，他很想我们，都哭了。
The child said he missed us so much that he cried.
我一想起孩子的样子就很心酸。
The thought of the child makes me sad.
我知道小孩子对过年有憧憬，以前不管多晚，我们一定会回老家，过年应该是热热闹闹的，爸爸妈妈都在身边。
I know that children have a vision for the Spring Festival, no matter how late, we will return home, the Spring Festival should be noisy, parents are around.
今年过年好冷清，我俩没回去，父母也觉得像是少了很多东西。
This year the New Year is so lonely, we did not go back, parents feel like a lot of things are missing.
但没办法，疫情后，机场也好，高铁也好，全部给封闭了，感觉武汉从非常开放变得非常封闭，我们像被关在一个笼子里。
But no way, after the outbreak, the airport or high-speed rail or all closed, feel Wuhan from very open to very closed, we like to be locked in a cage.
这些天我们基本上是连轴转，平均下来，我一天要跑10个左右终端，库房、商超、医院，开着2米7的电动冷藏车，循环着走。
These days, we basically link the axis, down the average, I have to run about 10 terminals a day, warehouses, supermarkets, hospitals, driving 2 meters 7 electric refrigerated trucks, circulation.
以前还有固定的工作时间，疫情发生后，我们每天差不多工作到凌晨一两点，在仓库里摆了一张临时的双人床，其实就是一块木板，吃完饭躺上面睡一会儿，或者在车上睡一会儿，最多睡4个小时就起来，用很零碎的时间去休息，差不多了又起来干活，没有几点上班、几点下班的概念。
After the outbreak, we put up a makeshift double bed in the warehouse about one to two in the morning. We slept on it for a while, or slept in the car for four hours at most.
每天早中午晚，媳妇和父母轮流给我打电话，一天至少五六个。
Every morning at noon night, my wife and parents take turns to call me, at least five or six times a day.
尤其去医院送货，他们都非常紧张，每次打都是问我差不多的问题，我也都是那几句话。
Especially to the hospital to deliver goods, they are very nervous, each call is to ask me almost the same questions, I am also those few words.
有一个家庭在背后支撑，我会提醒自己防护好。
With a family behind me, I'll remind myself to stay safe.
晚上，我和媳妇也都会跟家里人视频，报个平安。
At night, my daughter-in-law and I will also video with the family, a message of peace.
我们尽量不聊工作和疫情，只聊过年开心的事情。
We try not to talk about work and epidemic situation, just talk about happy New Year.
各城市都有像胡学军一样的坚守者，加入到对医护工作者的捐赠行动中3一线工作不容易。
Cities have holdouts like Hu Xuejun, and it is not easy to join the front-line work in the donation campaign for health-care workers.
我们有很多导购大姐，在疫情这么严重的时候，还是守在卖场。
We have a lot of stewardesses, in such a serious outbreak of the disease, or at the store.
比如有家大型超市的3个导购大姐，两个都感冒了，一个已经到了退休年龄，挂吊瓶的同时坚持上班，另一个吃着药，又叫上自己的老公协助搬货。
For example, there is a large supermarket of three purchase elder sister, two have caught a cold, one has reached retirement age, hanging bottles while at work, the other is taking medicine, and asked her husband to assist in moving the goods.
她们那个商场另外一个区域，有个导购员已经确诊是新冠肺炎了，其他人内心一定是非常恐惧的，那种情况下，她们还能够坚持在岗位上，不断掉供应链，给我的触动很大。
In the other part of the mall, where an assistant had confirmed that it was New Crown Pneumonia, other people must have been terrified that they would still be able to hold on to their posts and keep dropping out of the supply chain.
现在我们一起送奶只有3个人，除了我，另外两位都是女性，一个是武汉的，另一个和我一样是外地的。
Now we have only three milk delivery, except me, the other two are women, one is Wuhan, the other is as far away as I am.
她们非常了不起，真的非常了不起。
They're amazing, they're really amazing.
她们都有自己的家庭，但这些天也一直都在忙，没怎么过年，搬东西的时候也非常有力量。
They all have their own families, but these days has also been busy, little New Year, moving things when very powerful.
这么多货，压在我们身上。
So many goods, it's on us.
我非常钦佩这两个女同事。
I admire these two female colleagues very much.
其实心里都害怕，但是干起活来，很多东西就抛开了，比较忘我。
In fact, the heart is afraid, but to do work, a lot of things on the left, more selfless.
你说感染的问题，我从来不敢想、也不去想自己会不会感染，就觉得自己像铁人一样。
You say the problem of infection, I never dare to think, do not think about whether they will not infect, I feel like an iron man.
如果总逼着自己想，我怎么去前进？我不敢往后看。
How am I going to go if I keep trying to think? I'm afraid to look back.
再说，我们三个人也算一个小团体，你一提害怕，大家都知道。
Besides, the three of us are a small group; you mention it, and we all know it.
谁不害怕呢？但如果把这种畏惧感说出来，我们可能就互相影响了。
Who is not afraid? But if we speak out about this fear, we may be able to influence each other.
我们更想抛开那些负面的影响，聊聊我们今天干了多少事情，有谁和我们说了「谢谢」。
We'd rather put aside the negative influences and talk about how much we did today and who said "thank you" to us.
说白了，我们这个小组就剩三个人，只能相互依靠。
To put it bluntly, there are only three of us left in this group and we have to depend on each other.
我只是一个终端的销售人员，没有想过这个疫情会这么严重，从没想过。
I was just a terminal sales person, did not think the epidemic would be so serious, never thought.
当时我很乐观，觉得国家发展这么好，不管是医药也好，科技也好，都发展得这么迅速了，不像5年前、10年前那样了，对不对？疫情应该是非常好解决的一件事情。
I was optimistic that the country was growing so well, both in medicine and technology, not like it was five or 10 years ago, right?
如果我提前就知道疫情会发展成这样的话，我更不会回家了，会彻底打消回家的念头，提前把准备工作做得更好，而不是离开。
If I had known in advance that the epidemic would develop, I would not have gone home, I would have given up completely the idea of going home, and I would have done a better job of preparation in advance than I would have left.
准备更多人，准备更多车，不会像现在，只有3个人，让她们那么辛苦。
Prepare more people, prepare more cars, not like now, only three people, let them so hard.
但是现在假设这些也没用，只是希望一切能够快点结束。
But suppose it doesn't work now, just hope it ends soon.
今天，我听说有个好久不见的导购大姐确诊了。
Today, I heard that a long time no see the elder sister diagnosed.
我们一听说她得了这个病，赶紧打电话问，目前身体状况怎么样？需不需要联系医院？手上的钱够不够？我们能帮你做什么事情？更多的是聊这些，想做一些自己力所能及的事情。
As soon as we heard she had the disease, we called and asked, "How is she doing? Do you need to contact the hospital? Is there enough money on hand? What can we do for you? More talking about it, trying to do something for yourself."
我从来没有想过，她得病了，我们要怎么跟她保持距离。
It never occurred to me that she was ill and how we should keep her at arm's length.
虽然不是武汉人，但是看到武汉变成这样，我心里非常难受。
Although not Wuhan people, but to see Wuhan become so, I feel very uncomfortable.
我觉得我们特别像在一个孤岛上。
I think we're especially like being on an island.
可能不在武汉的人体会不到这些，但是在这里，大家想得更多的是怎么去帮助那些生病的人。
Maybe those who are not in Wuhan can not experience these, but here, people think more about how to help those who are sick.
他们也很无助，没有任何人想得肺炎，想自己身体状况不好。
They are also very helpless, no one wants to get pneumonia, want their own health bad.
一会儿搬完货，我想给同事找点炒饭吃，看看一些街头小店能不能有。
After moving the goods later, I want to find some fried rice for my colleagues, to see if there are some street shops.
现在武汉没什么吃的，好多快餐都停了，这些天我们在车上备了泡面、火腿肠、卤鸡蛋，或者超市买点面包，每顿饭都是这样应付。
Now Wuhan has no food, a lot of fast food has stopped, these days we are equipped with noodles, ham sausage, halogen chicken eggs, or supermarket to buy some bread, every meal is to cope with this.
吃了这么长时间，吃得难受，确实不能再吃泡面和面包了，我就想找份炒饭，大家也能改善一下伙食。
After such a long time, eating miserable, really can not eat noodles and bread, I would like to find a fried rice, we can also improve the food.
这时候，我们不能倒下，明天还得给医院送酸奶呢。
At this point, we can't fall down, we have to send yogurt to the hospital tomorrow.
医生护士日夜不休，守护生命；我们加班加点，守护他们。
Day and night doctors and nurses keep watch over life; we work overtime to guard them.
蒙牛在苏州等城市也开展了捐赠，奶制品一定要交到医务人员手中没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Mengniu in Suzhou and other cities also launched donations, dairy products must be put into the hands of medical staff not enough? Long two-dimensional focus on the people message more exciting story waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线送奶工：我们只能相互依靠。
Wuhan first-line milkman: We can only rely on each other.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉一线送奶工：我们只能相互依靠";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "医生护士守护生命，我们守护他们。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; doctors and nurses are with us; we guard them.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
