如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶。
If I could, I'd like to give Grandma roses for Grandpa.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
2月10日凌晨，爷爷头七那天，我在隔离酒店给他点了三根烟，磕了三个头，求他在天之灵保护他深爱的奶奶。
In the early morning of February 10, Grandpa's first seven days, I ordered three cigarettes for him in the isolation hotel, knocked three heads, begged him to protect his beloved grandmother in the spirit of heaven.
文| 吴美芬大黄，是武汉当地一支乐队的乐手，今年26岁。
Rhubarb Wu Mei-fen, a 26-year-old musician from a local Wuhan band, is now with us.
爸爸妈妈因病走得早，他自小在爷爷奶奶身边长大。
His parents left early because of his illness. He grew up near his grandparents.
1月底，爷爷奶奶相继感染新型冠状病毒，他独自承担起了照顾两位80岁老人的责任，不顾生命安危，在医院陪护。
At the end of January, his grandparents were infected with a new coronavirus, and he took on the responsibility of caring for two 80-year-olds while staying in hospital, risking their lives.
我于2月2日与大黄联系上，那时他还在为爷爷奶奶住院抢救奔走，过去十几天我一直在通过微信陪伴和鼓励他，也见证他在医院为爷爷奶奶求医的过程。
I contacted Rhubarb on February 2, when he was still in hospital to rescue his grandparents, and for the past 10 days I have been accompanying and encouraging him through letters and witnessing his process of seeking care for his grandparents in the hospital.
2月3日，大黄的爷爷因为新冠肺炎去世，他至今没有把这个消息告诉仍在住院的奶奶。
Rhubarb's grandfather died of pneumonia on February 3, and he has yet to tell his grandmother, who is still in hospital, of the news.
尽管隔着很远的距离，我也能感受到他在医院的焦虑——既不想放弃生活无法自理的爷爷奶奶，也害怕自己会被感染。
Despite the distance, I could feel his anxiety in the hospital - not wanting to give up his grandparents, who were unable to look after themselves, but also fearing that he would be infected.
2月13日，大黄作为病人家属在隔离酒店调整后，接受了我的采访。
February 13, Rhubarb as the patient's family in isolation after the adjustment of the hotel, I gave an interview.
以下是他的自述：如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶今天是情人节，在朋友圈看到这样两张照片：“无论如何，保持浪漫。
Here's what he said: If I could, I'd like to send a rose to Grandma for Grandpa. Today is Valentine's Day.
”“无论如何，保持浪漫”他们俩是娃娃亲，从小青梅竹马，在一起有80余个春秋了。
"" Anyway, stay romantic. "They were baby-marrieds, had been together for more than 80 years.
爷爷一辈子默默地支撑家庭，照顾奶奶，挣钱、做饭、家务基本是爷爷在做，他特别爱我奶奶。
Grandpa spent his life quietly supporting his family, taking care of his grandmother, making money, cooking, housework is basically grandpa doing, he especially loved my grandmother.
在这场疫情中，如果不是爷爷先离开，医院可能也不会重视奶奶，为她安排住院。
In this epidemic, if grandpa had not left first, the hospital might not have attached importance to Grandma and arranged for her hospitalization.
奶奶是最幸福的女性。
Grandma is the happiest woman.
住院前，奶奶跟爷爷一起为春节包的饺子放在冰箱里，我吃了一些，还剩一些。
Before the hospital, Grandma and Grandpa together for the Spring Festival bag dumplings in the refrigerator, I ate some, there are some left.
现在她还在住院治疗，我想等她出院了一起吃。
She's still in hospital, and I want to wait until she gets out of the hospital.
四岁时，爸爸因为脑肿瘤去世，妈妈独自带我比较困难，就把我寄托在爷爷奶奶家。
At the age of four, my father died of a brain tumor. My mother took me alone.
高三时，妈妈因病也走了。
In her senior year, my mother also left because of illness.
我从小在爷爷奶奶身边，他们是我唯一的亲人。
When I was young, I was around my grandparents. They were my only relatives.
大学毕业后，我在外面工作，没再跟爷爷奶奶住，只是偶尔回家看看。
After I graduated from college, I worked outside. I didn't live with my grandparents any more.
每次回家我都喜欢跟奶奶聊天，她经常跟我讲他们年轻时的事情。
Every time I go home, I like to talk to Grandma. She often tells me about their youth.
爷爷不怎么说话，闷声做事。
Grandpa doesn't talk much and does things quietly.
爷爷是处女座，做什么事情都做得很完美，特别能干。
Grandpa is a Virgo, doing everything perfectly, very capable.
一直以来都是他照顾奶奶。
He's been taking care of grandma.
腊月二十八，我回家过年。
On the 28th of December, I go home for New Year.
奶奶已经发烧几天了，她没跟我讲，我也没发现什么异常。
Grandma has been feverish for a few days. She didn't tell me. I didn't see anything unusual.
直到当天晚上，突然看见爷爷拿体温计给奶奶量体温，我才发现奶奶发烧了。
Not until that night, suddenly saw Grandpa take a thermometer to take grandmother's temperature, I found that grandmother had a fever.
他们对于疫情预防的意识比较薄弱，虽然之前我一直打电话跟他们讲尽量不要出门，但估计他们没当回事，还是出门去买年货。
Their awareness of disease prevention is weak, although I have been calling them to try not to go out, but they are not serious, or go out to buy New Year's goods.
当时我抱着侥幸的心理，认为爷爷奶奶只是出过一次门，而且都80多岁了，应该去不了很远，只是在家附近的市场，不会那么容易就感染新型冠状病毒。
At that time, I was lucky to think that grandpa and grandma have only been out of the door once, and are more than 80 years old, should not go far, only near the market, not so easy to become infected with the new coronavirus.
过了两天，奶奶不见好转。
After two days, Grandma didn't get any better.
大年初一中午，一直照顾着奶奶的爷爷突然说不行了，一点力气都没了，浑身发冷。
New Year's Day at noon, grandpa who has been taking care of Grandma suddenly said no, a little strength is gone, chills all over.
他躺在床上都起不来了。
He can't get up while lying in bed.
这时，我才意识到可能是奶奶患了新型冠状病毒肺炎，然后传染给爷爷了。
At this time, I realized that Grandma may be suffering from the new coronavirus pneumonia, and then transmitted to Grandpa.
我马上给爷爷量体温，发现爷爷在发烧。
I took Grandpa's temperature right away and found him feverish.
我赶紧通知家里的亲戚，并联系了社区，看有没有车送到医院去检查。
I hastened to inform my relatives at home and contacted the community to see if there was a car to be taken to the hospital for examination.
当时武汉刚封城，城内特别的混乱，根本没法出行，社区也没车。
Wuhan had just closed the city, the city is particularly chaotic, no way to travel, the community did not have a car.
我打电话给120，一直打不进去，后来又联系110， 110直接回复说没有防护服来不了。
I called 120, couldn't get in, then called 110, 110 and replied directly that there was no protective clothing.
我们只好走路到社区医院，两个老人搀扶着，走了大概有20分钟，特别吃力。
We had to walk to the community hospital. Two elderly people helped us, walking for about 20 minutes, with great difficulty.
下午3点左右到社区医院，挂号排队后，医生说爷爷奶奶发热了，社区医院看不了，要直接去大医院。
About 3 p.m. to the community hospital, registered after the queue, the doctor said grandparents febrile, the community hospital can not see, to go directly to the main hospital.
我给社区负责人打电话沟通，最后社区医院给看了病，开了些药。
I called the head of the community, and finally the community hospital was seen sick and prescribed some medicine.
我们家住在一栋旧楼的10层，电梯是有专人看管的，看管的人下班后，电梯就会关掉。
Our family lives on the 10th floor of an old building. The elevators are attended by someone who will turn them off after work.
我们回到家是晚上7点半，电梯已经停了。
We got home at 7: 30 p.m. The elevator had stopped.
我没有看管电梯师傅的电话，没办法，只能爬楼，两个人老人去医院看病靠走路，回来还要爬10层楼，加上生病浑身乏力，真的耗费很多体力。
I had no choice but to climb the stairs. The two old men walked to the hospital and had to climb ten stories back.
从那天开始，爷爷奶奶的病情慢慢恶化。
From that day on, Grandpa and Grandma got worse slowly.
1月26日，我联系到120将他们带到了指定的汉口医院看病。
On 26 January, I contacted 120 and took them to the designated Hankou Hospital.
医生开了三天药，也没有安排住院。
The doctor prescribed the medicine for three days and made no arrangements for hospitalization.
只是说没核酸检测确诊，没办法安排住院，从CT上看是新型冠状病毒感染，让爷爷奶奶拿药回去吃，增强营养。
Only said that no nucleic acid test confirmed that there is no way to arrange hospitalization, from CT is a new coronavirus infection, let grandparents take medicine back to eat, enhance nutrition.
当天排队、检查、等结果，搞了六七个小时，夜里12点才结束。
Queuing, checking, waiting for the result of the day, six or seven hours, until the end of the night at 12.
回到家，电梯又停了，又爬10层楼梯。
Back home, the elevator stopped and climbed 10 flights of stairs.
两个老人看病的流程很繁复，特困难，耗费大量体力，病情进一步恶化，没得到及时的治疗。
The process of two elderly people to see a doctor is complicated, extremely difficult, consumes a lot of physical strength, the condition further aggravates, did not receive timely treatment.
三天药吃完，他们的病情没见好转。
After three days of taking the medicine, they didn't get any better.
1月29号，爷爷难受得直喊“不舒服”。
On January 29th, Grandpa was so upset that he shouted "Not feeling well."
我给他量体温，高烧到39度。
I took his temperature. It was 39 degrees.
我感觉再耗下去肯定是不行的，就联系了社区。
I felt like I couldn't do it anymore, so I got in touch with the community.
社区给我们安排车，把爷爷奶奶送到了协和医院。
The community arranged for a car to take our grandparents to Concorde Hospital.
当时医院人已经非常多，都爆满了，连号都挂不上。
There were so many people in the hospital, they were so full, they couldn't even hang up the numbers.
护士说：“今天发热门诊的号挂完了，你在这等一天都不可能有号，明天再来”。
The nurse said: "Today, the fever clinic number hung up, you can not wait a day here have the number, come again tomorrow."
我肯定是不会带爷爷奶奶回去的，因为两个老人本来就是病到不行了才来医院。
I'm sure I won't bring my grandparents back, because the two old people were too ill to come to the hospital.
我们就在医院门诊坐着等，最起码人在医院还是会安全一点的。
We'll just sit in the hospital clinic and wait, or at least it'll be safe in the hospital.
爷爷奶奶从中午一直等到晚上八九点，人稍微少了一点。
Grandma and Grandpa waited from noon until eight or nine in the evening, a little less.
我就去找医生求情，希望没有挂到号也可以帮爷爷奶奶看病。
I went to the doctor to beg for mercy, hope not hang the number can also help grandfather and grandmother to see a doctor.
那个医生人比较好，就帮忙看了。
The doctor was better, so he helped with the reading.
医生给爷爷奶奶检查了血液和CT，基本确定是受到感染了，但还要做核酸检测，他给我们开了单子，让我第二天早上7点来排队，因为核酸检测是限额的，做完就不做了。
The doctor gave Grandma and Grandpa a blood test and a CT scan and it was almost certain they were infected, but he had to do a nucleic acid test. He gave us a list and told me to stand in line the next morning at 7: 00, because nucleic acid testing was limited and would not be done.
幸好，那晚奶奶睡着了1月30日，我们一大早跑去排队做核酸检测，一直等到下午两点半才做到。
Luckily, Grandma slept that night. On Jan. 30, we were in line for a nucleic acid test early in the morning and didn't do it until 2: 30 p.m.
2月1日上午10点左右，我的手机收到核酸检测的结果，爷爷奶奶均是阳性。
February 1 around 10 a.m., my mobile phone received nucleic acid test results, grandparents are positive.
我把结果告知社区，社区当天下午两三点钟，给我们发了一个红十字医院的入诊通知单。
I told the community that at two or three in the afternoon, we were given a Red Cross hospital admission notice.
当时社区跟我讲，有了入诊通知单就可以住院，并安排车把我们送到了红十字医院。
The community told me we could be hospitalized with an admission notice and arranged for a car to take us to the Red Cross hospital.
医院门口有人看守，手里拿着一份名单，查了一遍，没看到我爷爷奶奶的名字，不让我们进去。
There was a guard in front of the hospital. He had a list in his hand. He didn't see the name of my grandparents.
我们就只能坐在医院门口等。
We had to wait in front of the hospital.
我是强行着把爷爷奶奶送进医院的。
I sent my grandparents to the hospital by force.
我以为进去了，有了名单就可以住院了。
I thought I was going in. With the list, I could be hospitalized.
其实不是，有了名单，只是可以进医院看病做检查。
Not really. I have a list. I can just go to the hospital and have a checkup.
2月2日，我们一直在医院等到晚上11点，根本没人管我们，就只是坐在那。
On February 2, we waited at the hospital until 11 p. m. and no one cared about us, just sat there.
我想社区的信息不靠谱，只能靠自己。
I think the community information is unreliable, can only rely on themselves.
我就跑到门诊去找医生，医生说已经确诊门诊管不了，去急诊那边找急诊医生。
I went to the clinic to see a doctor. The doctor said it was beyond the scope of the clinic and went to the emergency doctor.
我赶紧又跑到急诊去，到那一看，一个医生都没有，只有一个护士，医生都去抢救病人了。
I ran to the emergency room again. There was no doctor. There was only a nurse and the doctors were there to save the sick.
大概两个小时后，急诊的医生才来开了药，给爷爷奶奶安排了留院观察，在板凳上打吊瓶。
About two hours later, the doctor at the emergency department came to prescribe the medicine and arranged for Grandma and Grandpa to stay in the hospital to observe and lift the bottle on the bench.
爷爷奶奶在医院打针，自己带的小板凳就是个心型就我一个在医院看着他们，爷爷浑身发冷，奶奶不停地在喘气，都走不动路，上厕所一定要有人带着去。
Grandpa and Grandma in the hospital injection, his own small bench is a heart-type I looked at them alone in the hospital, grandpa is cold, grandma kept gasping, can not walk, must be taken to the toilet.
爷爷还在医院的厕所摔倒过一次，蹲下去根本起不来。
Grandpa had fallen down once in the hospital toilet, and he couldn't get up at all.
当时我想留观的话，不是一天两天的事情，坐着也不是办法，就想着弄折叠床或者躺椅。
At that time, I wanted to watch the words, not a day-to-day thing, sitting is not a way, think of folding beds or lounge chairs.
后来社区的人帮我弄来了两个躺椅，摆医院的走道上，氧气瓶放在旁边。
Later, the community helped me get two lounge chairs, put the hospital aisle, oxygen cylinders on the side.
氧气瓶好重，我帮他们铺好躺椅，搬好氧气瓶累到心跳加速，呼吸到肺都疼。
The oxygen cylinders were so heavy that I helped them make their chairs, carry the oxygen cylinders so fast that my heart beat faster and my lungs ached.
到了2月3日晚上，我有点坚持不住了。
By the evening of February 3, I could not hold out.
已经一天一夜没睡觉了，特别累，睡不着，也不敢睡，怕自己睡着了，爷爷奶奶有事情不能及时去叫医生。
Has not slept day and night, particularly tired, sleep, do not dare to sleep, afraid of their sleep, grandparents have things can not be called to the doctor in time.
这晚，爷爷奶奶都在喘气，喘、喘、喘，我看了特别心疼。
This night, my grandparents are panting, panting, panting, I saw a special pain.
爷爷奶奶在过道入睡还有个病人在路过时把氧气瓶绊倒了，氧气不断地往外喷，幸好有三个护士冲了过来解决了危机。
Grandma and Grandpa were sleeping in the hallway and a patient tripped over an oxygen bottle as he passed. Oxygen kept squirting out. Fortunately, three nurses rushed in to solve the crisis.
晚上9点，爷爷的行为举止有点奇怪，不断地呻吟。
At nine o'clock in the evening, Grandpa was behaving strangely and moaning.
医生说老人感染了这个病毒到了末期，大脑缺氧损伤神神经是这样的，让我做好心理准备，然后平淡地走开了。
The doctor said the old man was infected with the virus by the end of the day, brain hypoxia damage God nerve is like this, let me prepare mentally, and then quietly walked away.
22点，爷爷奶奶被分配到了不同的床位，爷爷去的是抢救室的病床，当时我心里就有数了。
At 22 o'clock, Grandpa and Grandma were assigned to different beds, Grandpa went to the rescue room bed, then I knew.
因为我看到好几个人从那里被抬走，才空出来的病床。
Because I saw several people being carried away from there, just to leave the hospital bed.
2月3日爷爷奶奶在医院抢救室里睡着很多需要抢救的病人，门口还有尸体，白布包裹得严严实实的，摆在那里等着第二天殡仪馆来送走。
February 3 Grandparents in the hospital rescue room sleep a lot of patients in need of rescue, the door still has the body, white cloth wrapped tightly, waiting for the next day funeral parlour to send away.
两个老人都要打针，我只能两头跑。
Two old men need needles, and I have to run on both ends.
一边是爷爷快不行了，神智不清地胡说话，需要医生抢救。
On one side grandpa is nearly exhausted, delirious Hu said, need a doctor rescue.
一边是奶奶要上厕所，我不能让她直到爷爷的情况，很焦急，却只能假装淡定地陪她聊天。
On the one hand grandma to go to the toilet, I can not let her until Grandpa's situation, very anxious, but can only pretend to calm her down to chat.
跟她说会好的，没事的。
Tell her it's gonna be okay. it's okay.
我也在心里给自己大气：“很多人走的时候，亲人都不在身边，都不能相互看一眼，爷爷奶奶，起码我在。
I also give their own atmosphere: "a lot of people away, relatives are not around, can not look at each other, grandparents, at least I in.
没事儿，不留遗憾。
No problem, no regrets.
”当天晚上医生跟我说，如果爷爷断气了，他不会采取心外按压的抢救措施，因为一按压的话，病毒全都出来了，反而不安全。
That night the doctor told me that if Grandpa had given up, he wouldn't have taken the extra-cardiac resuscitation because the virus was coming out and it wasn't safe.
他还说老人基本上到了这个程度是救不回来的了。
He added that the old man had basically reached that point where he could not be saved.
医生就在那里不断地跟我做心理工作，要我做好准备。
The doctor was there constantly doing the mental work for me to be ready.
我只能静静地等候，2月3日凌晨4点06分左右，爷爷就走了。
I could only wait in silence. At about 4: 06 a.m. on February 3, Grandpa left.
幸好，那晚奶奶睡着了，我可以在爷爷这边一直陪着。
Luckily, Grandma slept that night and I could be there for Grandpa.
我肯定放弃不了当天，医生因为爷爷去世的事，照顾我们为奶奶安排了住院。
I'm sure I can't give up. The doctor took care of us that day and arranged for Grandma to be hospitalized because of Grandpa's death.
住院大楼的病房跟我想象的不一样。
The ward in the hospital building was different from what I expected.
我在电视上面看到央视报道金银潭医院的病房是那种有隔离玻璃隔离的，一个人专门看护两个病人那种。
I saw on TV CCTV that the gold and silver pool hospital ward was the sort of glass-isolated ward where one person cared for two patients.
这边的医院完全不是。
The hospital here is completely different.
当时我以为奶奶住院了，有专人看管，我就可以去隔离了。
I thought my grandma was in the hospital, and I could be quarantined.
其实就是普通的病房。
Actually it's a regular ward.
奶奶生活无法自理，没人照顾，我不放心，只好硬着头皮留了下来。
Grandma's life can not take care of themselves, no one to take care of me, I feel uneasy, had to bravely stay down.
我是被迫住进病房的，医生都不让我待在里面，还说只要发现我摘下口罩，就把我赶走。
I was forced into the hospital room and the doctors wouldn't let me in, saying that if I took off my mask, I would be turned away.
当时我在想，不能摘口罩，怎么吃饭怎么喝水呢？但我还是不能走，奶奶吃饭、打针、上厕所都需要人盯着，我走不开。
At that time, I was thinking, can not take off masks, how to eat how to drink water? But I still can not leave, grandmother to eat, injection, toilet needs to be stared at, I can not leave.
爷爷走了，我也不能让奶奶知道。
Grandpa's gone, and I can't let Grandma know.
我喂奶奶吃饭时，她会问爷爷吃了没，喝水没。
When I fed Grandma, she would ask Grandpa if he had eaten or drunk.
我就骗她说，爷爷情况比你好一些，稳定一些，你自己该吃吃该喝喝，不用担心他那么多。
I lied to her, Grandpa is better off, stable, you should eat and drink your own, do not worry so much about him.
病房是男女分层的，男的一层，女的一层，有时候我喂奶奶吃完饭，或者扶她上完厕所后，我会故意说，你睡一会，我去爷爷那边看一下。
The ward is male-female stratification, male layer, female layer, sometimes I feed Grandma finished eating, or help her to go to the toilet, I deliberately said, you sleep a while, I go to Grandpa look.
然后我就出病房，在医院走道或者其他地方角落逛一下再回来。
Then I would go out of the room, stroll down the hospital aisle or anywhere else and come back.
我不想因为爷爷去世这件事情吓到她，一直在鼓励她，没有给她很多压力。
I didn't want to scare her about Grandpa's death. I kept encouraging her and didn't put much pressure on her.
我一直跟她讲，把饭吃了，药吃了，病就好了。
I kept telling her that I had eaten the food, taken the medicine, and was cured.
她也一直在坚持，没有吓自己。
She kept at it, too, without scaring herself.
2月4日，我已经在医院联系待了四天，没有防护服，只有口罩。
On 4 February, I had been in hospital for four days, without protective clothing and only with a mask.
大黄在陪护奶奶医院给每个病人准备了饭，同病房阿姨每次都跟医生多要一份饭给我，后来几天护士主动分饭给我。
Rhubarb prepared a meal for each patient at Grandma's Hospital. She asked the doctor for an extra meal each time, then offered to share the meal with me for a few days.
刚开始两天没饭吃，吃的是我在武汉的同学送来的泡面和饮料。
The first two days did not eat food, eat my classmates in Wuhan sent bubble noodles and drinks.
吃是够的，但不太方便，因为口罩不能随便摘。
Eating is enough, but it's not very convenient, because masks can't be removed casually.
我就在医院找一个我觉得安全的角落，摘下口罩赶紧吃完。
I just found a safe corner of the hospital, took off my mask and ate it quickly.
可能是心理的原因，我开始感觉支气管有灼烧感，吸气会疼。
Maybe it was psychological. I began to feel a burning sensation in my bronchus. Inhalation hurt.
可能口罩戴太久了，闷住了，当时我有点害怕。
Maybe the mask was worn too long and suffocated, and I was a little scared.
我拿体温计测了一下，是37.2度，我问医生这个算不算发烧，他说没发烧，但也要注意。
I took a thermometer and measured it at 37.2 degrees. I asked the doctor if it counted as a fever. He said he had no fever, but he wanted to be careful.
我想临时在医院做一个CT检查，医生却说要通知社区到对口的医院才能做检查。
I wanted to have a CT examination at the hospital temporarily, but the doctor said that the community should be informed to the corresponding hospital before the examination.
我戴了4天的口罩，几乎没摘下来过，皮筋勒得紧紧地，火辣辣地疼。
I wore a four-day mask, almost unplucked, and my skin was cramped and burning.
当时我特别想摘一下口罩，让耳朵休息一下，然后再好好睡一觉。
I wanted to take off my mask, give my ears a rest, and get a good sleep.
可是我不能，因为奶奶生活不能自理，走不开。
But I can't because Grandma can't take care of herself and can't go away.
我觉得很失望，特别无助，感觉自己会猝死。
I felt so disappointed and helpless that I felt like I was about to die.
2月5日，我在医院的第五天，奶奶的情况终于好了一点，主动吃东西，吃了一个包子，喝了很多水，也打了免疫球蛋白。
On February 5, my fifth day in the hospital, Grandma's condition finally improved a little bit, eat a steamed bun, drink a lot of water, also hit immunoglobulin.
我自己也终于可以睡了一觉，还吃了点预防感染的药。
At last I was able to sleep and take some medicine to prevent infection.
真的很感恩，当时我对自己说，疫情过后要好好生活，奶奶也是放不下我，盼着我能有个好的生活。
Really grateful, when I said to myself, after the outbreak of good life, Grandma is not able to put me, I hope I can have a good life.
很多人都劝我，说奶奶已经这么大岁数了，完全靠自己，我要赶紧去隔离，保全自己。
Many people have advised me that Grandma is so old, completely on her own, I have to hurry to quarantine, to save themselves.
有亲戚也跟我讲：“你要保住自己，你是家里的独苗，你要是倒了，怎么办？要考虑一下。
Some relatives also told me: "You want to save yourself, you are the only seedling in the family, if you fall, how to do? Think about it.
你出来保全自己，家里人都不会怪你的。
Your family will not blame you for coming out to save yourself.
”前两天医院还可以正常进出，后来突然封了门，家属进不了。
The hospital was open two days ago, but the door was suddenly closed and the family could not get in.
有一次我被关在外面进不了。
Once I was shut out.
我就跟守门的那几个人求情，说爷爷奶奶在里面生活不能自理，我必须要进去。
I pleaded with the gatekeepers that my grandparents could not take care of themselves in the house and I had to go in.
他说你自己决定好，你一个正常人，里面全是病人，进去了就出不来了，自己做好准备。
He said you make up your mind, you are a normal person, full of patients, go inside can not get out, prepared yourself.
当时我下定决定一定要进去，不管会不会被感染。
I made up my mind to go in there, whether I was infected or not.
其实他们说的道理我都懂，但是在病人跟前，在生活无法自理的爷爷奶奶跟前，不是说走就走的。
In fact, I understand what they say, but in front of the patient, in the life can not take care of the grandparents, not walk and walk.
我现在走了，就相当于放弃了他们生命。
When I go now, I give up their lives.
我肯定放弃不了。
I can't give up.
2月7日，也就是在医院待的第七天，我开始有点发热，也累到不行了。
On February 7, my seventh day in the hospital, I began to get a little feverish and exhausted.
医生建议我赶紧去隔离观察，说奶奶九死一生，没必要再搭上我了。
The doctor advised me to go to the isolation observation quickly, said that the grandmother died, no need to hook up with me.
奶奶这边有护士可以照顾，该做的他们都会做。
Grandma has nurses on her side to take care of. They do whatever needs to be done.
最后我也想通了，跟奶奶交代了很多要注意的细节，就回家了。
Finally I also thought through, told Grandma a lot to pay attention to the details, and went home.
我跟奶奶讲，一定要吃药，一定要吃饭，氧气面罩不可以脱下来，吃喝拉撒也不要下床。
I told my grandmother, must take medicine, must eat, oxygen mask must not take off, eat, drink Lazarus do not get out of bed.
不吃药、不吃药、没氧气就会死。
No medicine, no medicine, no oxygen, death.
奶奶听了就一直说好好好。
Grandma always said good-bye.
奶奶是很想活下去的，她很有信心，没交代遗言之类的话。
Granny wants to live very much, she is very confident, did not give the last words and so on.
她让我回家把家里吃的东西和碗之类的清理一下，因为我们离开家那天走得特别急，什么都没收拾。
She told me to go home and clean up the food and dishes at home, because we left home in such a hurry that we didn't do anything.
爷爷奶奶为春节包的饺子走的时候，我在心里对自己说：“我实在是没办法了，奶奶，你自己一个人要坚强活下去，你说你想看我接媳妇那你就一定要看着。
When my grandparents left for the dumplings for the Spring Festival, I said to myself: "I really can not help it, Grandma, you have to be strong to live, you said you want to see me pick up daughter-in-law then you must watch.
”现在我在社区安排的隔离酒店进行隔离。
"Now I'm quarantined at an isolated hotel arranged by the community.
有时跟奶奶通电话，她说话还比较有力气，没有很虚弱了。
Sometimes she talked to her grandma on the phone. She was more forceful and did not feel very weak.
今天已经是25天了，奶奶很有毅力，还在坚持。
Today is already 25 days, Grandma has a lot of perseverance, but also insisted.
2月10日凌晨，爷爷头七那天，我在隔离酒店给他点了三根烟，磕了三个头，求他在天之灵保护他深爱的奶奶。
In the early morning of February 10, Grandpa's first seven days, I ordered three cigarettes for him in the isolation hotel, knocked three heads, begged him to protect his beloved grandmother in the spirit of heaven.
后记：大黄跟我说，爷爷走后，他有很多的抱怨，甚至想过要去做一些破坏性的行为。
Postscript: Rhubarb told me that after Grandpa left, he had a lot of complaints and even wanted to do something destructive.
后来，因为有来自全国各地的网友的支持和鼓励，他不满的情绪慢慢消退了。
Later, with the support and encouragement of netizens from all over the country, his discontented mood gradually subsided.
他说，疫情会让我们更团结。
'The epidemic will bring us closer together, 'he said.
我很高兴，看到一个有孝心、有勇气的青年，在众人的陪伴中，重新恢复了对美好生活的希望，在尽己所能改变世界。
I am very happy to see a young man with filial piety and courage, in the company of all, to restore the hope of a better life, in the best possible way to change the world.
我想，这就是这个情人节的特殊之处吧。
I guess that's what makes Valentine's Day special.
人间自有真情，无论多难，我们都可以携手往前走。
There is a truth in the world, no matter how difficult, we can all go forward together.
（文中“大黄”为化名）「相关文章」疫区日记 I我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”「我们是谁」我们是独立纪录片团队“云林街十七号”致力于记录疫情之下民间最真实的光景「征集活动」我们想要邀请你参与我们的创作，为我们提供湖北本地市民的一手素材城市和社区是如何消毒杀菌的？窗外的街道在此刻又是怎样的光景？出口封闭后您的居家生活是怎样的？只要是你在疫情期间曾经拍摄过的视频我们都欢迎你们的投稿「投稿方式」来稿至邮箱：774217664@qq.com标注“视频投稿”，并留下联系方式（请在邮件正文简单介绍一下各个视频的拍摄时间）也可以加我们工作人员的微信15827608198了解征集详情并答疑「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信。
We are from Wuhan city and would like to do something for this city. We would like to send a message to our staff on how to make a contribution to the city.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶。
If I could, I'd like to give Grandma roses for Grandpa.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“无论如何，保持浪漫”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Be romantic at all costs";
title: '疫区日记 I',。
A diary I & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情',。
We are from Wuhan and would like to do something with & apos; for this city.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
