关于火神山医院的七个细节。
Seven details about Mount Fire Hospital.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2020年2月4日上午9点26分，备受瞩目的武汉火神山医院收治了它的第一批患者，一共50位。
At 9: 26 a.m. on February 4, 2020, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, the attention of the first batch of its patients, a total of 50.
据媒体报道，他们分别来自汉口医院、武昌医院等三所医院，转运任务由武汉市急救中心负责。
According to media reports, they came from Hankou Hospital, Wuchang Hospital and other three hospitals.
从武汉城区，到远郊的蔡甸知音湖边，这50名病人将在火神山医院的感染七科度过接下来的一段时间。
The 50 patients will spend the rest of their lives at Mount Fujimori Hospital's infection section from Wuhan City to Lake Cai Mianyin in the far suburbs.
火神山医院从1月25日动工，到2月4日第一个病区启用，一共是11天。
Work began on 25 January at Mount Huoshen Hospital, and the first area was opened on 4 February, for a total of 11 days.
期待之后一个个病区陆续建好、收治，缓解武汉患者看病之难。
Expect one after another after the construction of a good, treatment, Wuhan patients to alleviate the difficulties of medical treatment.
以下是《人物》记者在火神山医院注意到的七个细节。
Here are seven details that People took note of at Mount Fire Hospital.
文｜梅枚编辑｜金石1首批转院至火神山的50名患者，基本都是轻症患者，从汉口医院等医院转运而来。
+ yeg + + + + + + + + + + + the first 50 patients transferred to Mount Fire were mainly mild patients who were transferred from hospitals such as Hankou Hospital.
医生介绍了这样选择的原因——这次转院是军地之间的交接，第一次转运算是试水，双方相互磨合、熟悉流程，以防转运过程中出现一些不可预估的问题。
The doctor explained the reason for this choice - the transfer was a military-to-military transfer, the first transfer was a test run, and the two parties were comfortable with each other and familiar with the process in order to prevent some unpredictable problems during the transit.
所以先运轻症患者，先轻后重。
So the first light transport patients, before the weight.
在央视昨晚的直播中，负责转运的丁医生介绍了转运病人的流程。
In the CCTV broadcast last night, responsible for transshipment of the doctor introduced the process of patients in transit.
每辆救护车接五位病人，医生会拿到一个五人名单。
Each ambulance receives five patients, and the doctor receives a list of five.
这些病人身上也会有一个二维码，记录了他们的基本信息、就诊记录，也有他们的编号。
The patients also had a two-dimensional code that recorded their basic information, their medical records and their numbers.
之后到了火神山医院，也会按照这个编号收治和入住。
Afterwards arrived at the fire god mountain hospital, also can accept and check in according to this number.
这样一来，二维码会追溯病人看病的整个过程。
In this way, the two-dimensional code traces the entire process of patient care.
转运病人的救护车，也是特有的救护车。
The ambulance that transports the patient is also a unique ambulance.
驾驶舱与后面车厢之间存在负压。
There is a negative pressure between the cockpit and the rear compartment.
病人上车后，驾驶员可以摁下按钮，开启负压模式，两边的空气不会产生交换。
When the patient gets on the bus, the driver can press the button to open the negative pressure mode, the two sides of the air will not be exchanged.
整个运输过程中，两舱之间的玻璃也是严禁打开的。
The glass between the two cabins is strictly forbidden to be opened throughout the transit.
转运病人 图源人民日报250位患者将在感染七科接受治疗。
Transshipment patients 250 patients will be treated in 7 subjects of infection.
一部分患者在一楼的感染七科一病区，剩下患者则在二楼的感染七科二病区。
Some of the patients were infected in the first floor of the seven infection section I area, while the remaining patients in the second floor of infection seven II.
住院楼修有斜坡，有几米高，从地面直接通到楼上，患者从救护车上下来，可以直接被推到二楼。
The in-patient building, which is sloping a few metres high, runs directly from the ground to the upper floor, where the patient dismounts from the ambulance and can be pushed directly to the second floor.
根据病房的标识，感染七科一病区是48个床位，二病区是56个床位，加起来是104个床位。
According to the sign of the ward, the infection in the seven-ward area is 48 beds, and the second-degree area is 56 beds, making a total of 104 beds.
一病区有病房被改造成了检验室，所以预估下来，感染七科可以容纳的病人大概在100位左右。
A ward in one of the affected areas has been converted into a laboratory, so it is estimated that about 100 patients can be accommodated in the seven infection sections.
火神山医院的病房，都按照标准的传染病医院设计——病房前后门都有走廊，前门外的走廊是医护人员专用通道，病人不能进出。
The wards at Mount Fukuyama Hospital are designed according to standard infectious-disease hospitals, with corridors all around the front door and hallways outside the front door that are inaccessible to patients.
后门外的走廊，病人可以进出，属于污染区。
A corridor outside the back door, accessible to patients, is a contaminated area.
这样设计是防止交叉感染。
This design is designed to prevent cross infection.
打开病房的第一扇大门，首先看到的是一个缓冲区，有几平米的空间。
Opening the first door of the ward, the first thing I saw was a buffer zone with a few square metres of space.
再打开一扇小门，才是真正的病房。
Open a small door, is the real ward.
房间里有空调、电视、紫外线消毒灯、马桶与淋浴。
The room has air conditioning, TV, ultraviolet disinfectant lights, toilet and shower.
床头有呼叫器，有吸引器，用来给病人吸痰和做雾化。
There is a pager at the head of the bed with an attractor to suck sputum and atomize the patient.
2月3日，各种治疗所需的器械也已经摆放在病房。
On 3 February, equipment for various treatments was also placed in the wards.
和小汤山医院一样，火神山的每个病房也有一个传递窗，内外都有开关。
Like Xiaotangshan Hospital, every ward in Mount Fujimori has a transfer window with switches inside and outside.
医护就通过它来向患者传递药品和食物。
Healthcare uses it to deliver medicine and food to patients.
传递窗 图源网络3同样是在央视的直播中，这位负责转运的丁医生介绍了火神山医院的完工情况。
Transfer window source network 3 is also in the CCTV broadcast, the transfer of the doctor in charge of the transfer of the completion of the Mount Huoshen Hospital.
「火神山的主体结构已经基本完工。
"The main structure of Mount Fire has been basically completed.
电水已经通了，现在是一个病区一个病区地去施工。
Electricity and water have been through, is now a sick area to work.
已经完工一个病区，可以入住，其他病区的主体已经完工，但内部工程及设备等等，还在完善。
A sick area has been completed and can be occupied. The main body of the other areas has been completed, but the internal works, equipment and so on are still being improved.
」这与《人物》在现场看到的情况基本相同。
"It's basically the same thing that People saw on the spot.
目前完工的这个病区，就是处在火神山医院最里面的感染七科，这是一座白色的两层建筑。
The current completion of this disease area, is located in the innermost Mount Fire Hospital infection seven families, this is a white two-storey building.
在感染七科完工后，另一座接近完工的，是与它相邻的一栋同样规格的建筑。
Another building near completion, after seven infections, is the same size building next to it.
施工工人应该是最了解具体施工进度的人之一，负责安装风机的工人和负责机电的工人说，这栋楼的完工大概还需要三天左右的时间。
Construction workers are supposed to be among the most knowledgeable about the progress of construction, and the workers who install the fans and those in charge of electromechanics say it will take about three days to finish.
同样在等待最后完善的，还有位于医院中部的ICU病房和与它相邻的医技楼。
Also waiting to be finalised are the ICU ward in the central part of the hospital and the hospital building next to it.
火神山医院的全貌 图源网络42月3日下午，火神山感染七科的负压病房完成了最后的验收。
The complete picture source network of Mount Huoshen Hospital completed the final acceptance on the afternoon of Feosen Mountain, a negative pressure ward of seven families.
负压病房通常是传染病医院特有的病房，病房内气压低于病房外气压，这样一来，外面的新鲜空气可以流进病房，而病房内被患者污染过的空气，则是通过专门的通道及时排放到固定的地方，从而降低医务人员被感染的风险。
The negative pressure ward is usually a special ward of an infectious disease hospital. The air pressure inside the ward is lower than that outside the ward, so that fresh air from outside can flow into the ward, while the air contaminated by the patient in the ward is discharged into a fixed place in a timely manner through a special passageway, thus reducing the risk of infection for medical staff.
火神山医院负压病房的设置是，天花板上有一个进风口，靠近地面处有一个大管子，是出风口。
The negative pressure ward of Fosen Mountain Hospital is set with an inlet on the ceiling and a large tube near the ground, which is an outlet to the air.
工作人员介绍，空气是从室外取出来的，病房外装有风机，把空气抽进来，进入病房后，再由出风口排到室外，完成一个循环。
The air was taken out of the room, and a fan was installed outside, sucking in the air, then venting the air out of the room to complete a cycle, workers said.
排入大气之前，来自病房的空气会经过三级过滤，分别是初效、中效和高效。
Before it is discharged into the atmosphere, the air from the ward goes through three levels of filtration: primary, secondary and high efficiency.
到高效阶段时，网格很密很密，气溶胶等大部分颗粒都过不去，都会被过滤掉。
At the high efficiency stage, the grid is dense and dense, and most particles, such as aerosols, get stuck and are filtered out.
负压病房的要点是，让病房内排风的速度比送风的速度大，排多送少，而被病房包围的中间那条医护人员通道，则基本只送风。
The point of the negative pressure ward is that the rate of ventilation in the ward is faster than that of the air supply.
《人物》在现场看到，医护人员走廊里有几个巨大的进风口，比病房里的进风口要大得多。
People saw at the scene that there were several huge inlets in the hallway of the paramedics, much larger than the inlet in the ward.
这样一来，医护人员走廊的气压就会高于病房气压，两者的空气不会交换，以达到保护医护人员的目的。
In this way, the air pressure in the hallways of medical staff will be higher than that in the wards and the air between the two will not be exchanged for the purpose of protecting medical staff.
在现场我们看到，湖北省疾控中心的工作人员扯掉一根自己的头发，分别放在出风口和进风口，测试风的大小和方向。
At the scene, we saw the staff of the CDC in Hubei Province tear off one of their hair and place it in the air outlet and inlet respectively to test the size and direction of the wind.
据他们介绍，目前开放的感染七科是普通病房，压力差大概为5帕。
According to them, the current seven open infection is the general ward, the pressure difference is about 5 Pa.
目前还未开放的重症病房，因为收治的是更重症的病人，对负压的要求会更高些，要达到10帕。
The intensive care unit, which has not yet been opened, has a higher requirement of 10 Pa for treating patients with more severe conditions.
负压病房，对房间密封性的要求很高。
Negative pressure ward, the requirement of room sealing is very high.
在验收前，大量工作人员都在病房里做密封工作。
Before receiving and inspection, a large number of staff in the ward to do sealing work.
大的缝隙用泡沫胶，小的缝隙用密封胶。
Large gaps with foam glue, small gaps with sealant.
要来回检查好几遍，确认全部封死。
Check back and forth several times to make sure it's all sealed.
负压病房52月3日上午，在检验七科一楼的一个病房，检验科的工作人员正在做最后的设备调试。
On the morning of March 3, 52, in a ward on the first floor of Section 7, the staff of the Inspection Section was making the final equipment adjustment.
火神山医院的检验科主任夏欣一，是东部战区总医院的检验科副主任，这次来组建检验科队伍。
Xia Xinyi, director of the laboratory department at Mount Fukuyama Hospital, is the deputy director of the laboratory department of the Eastern War Department General Hospital.
他告诉《人物》，目前他们还只能完成一些常规检测，正在等待医技楼的最后完工，等医技楼全部建好，实验室就可以做核酸检测了。
He told People that they could only complete some routine tests and were waiting for the final construction of the building, which would allow the lab to test for nucleic acids.
火神山医院所有的核酸检测，不需要送到外面，医院自己就可以解决。
All nucleic acid tests at Mount Fujimori Hospital do not need to be sent outside, the hospital itself can solve.
医院根据一千张床位的规模，设计了实验室，据夏欣一预计，他们每天能检测300—400份样本。
The hospital has designed laboratories based on the size of a thousand beds, and Shaheen expects to be able to test 300-400 samples a day.
火神山医院的出院标准和其他医院一样，必须达到连续两次的核酸检测阴性，且两次检测的间隔时间要在一天以上。
The criteria for discharge from Mount Fukuyama Hospital, like those of other hospitals, must be negative for two consecutive nucleic acid tests, with intervals of more than one day between tests.
在还在整修的医技楼内，做CT的设备也已经到位。
CT equipment has also been put in place in the medical technology building, which is still under renovation.
病房内部 图源新京报6在火神山医院选址最初公布时，有人质疑过，靠近水源（武汉知音湖）是否会造成污染。
When the site of Mount Huoshen Hospital was first announced, some people questioned whether the proximity to the water source, Wuhan Boxing Lake, would cause pollution.
2月3日，负责污水处理的某公司工作人员也向《人物》说明了目前污水处理的情况。
On 3 February, a company employee in charge of sewage treatment also briefed People on the current sewage treatment situation.
这一次火神山使用的污水处理设备，可以被称为是一组碳钢结构的「集成集装箱」，里面包括了调节池、应急、消毒、高效能生物反应、高效沉淀等5大功能设备。
This time, the Flamingo Hill sewage treatment plant can be described as a set of carbon steel "integrated containers," including the regulation pool, emergency, disinfection, high-efficiency biological reaction, high-efficiency precipitation and other major functional equipment.
这是此前早已设计好的，在运到火神山现场后，只需要快速拼接安装即可。
This is already designed, in the Mount Fire site, only the need for rapid mosaic installation can be.
这套集装箱，每天可以处理800—1000吨污水，同时还配备了「双保险」系统，也就是说，准备了一套备用的装置，在一套系统发生故障时，仍有另一套系统可用，保证医院的所有污水都能得到及时处理。
The container, which can handle 800-1000 tons of sewage each day, is equipped with a "double insurance" system. That is, a backup system is in place to ensure that all hospital sewage is treated in a timely manner in the event of a system failure.
这套设备已在江浙沪的许多医院使用过，这次的技术和流程，也都是按照中国对传染病医院的施工要求来的。
This set of equipment has been used in many hospitals in Zhejiang and Shanghai, this time the technology and procedures, are also in accordance with China's requirements for the construction of hospitals for infectious diseases.
火神山目前已经交付，他们现在又到了雷神山，继续施工。
Mount Fire has now been delivered, they are now in the thunder Shenshan, continue to work.
火神山的污水处理设备 图源环球网7在感染七科收治病人前的两三天，工人们都在通宵赶工。
The Fire Goddess of Fire Mountain sewage treatment plant graph source The workers worked all night for two or three days before they became infected with the seven treated patients.
2月3日上午，《人物》记者在一病区遇见几个水电工，他们熬了一整晚，白天还在做最后的收尾工作。
On the morning of February 3, People met some electricians in a sick area. They stayed up all night, finishing the day before.
没有办法，只好抽烟解困。
There was no alternative but to smoke and drown.
有不少工人都是女性，是施工单位从江夏区召集起来的，她们负责铺草坪、打扫卫生，但是也做搬运、电焊等体力活。
Many of the workers are women. The construction units have been called up from the Jiangxia area. They are responsible for lawn-laying and cleaning, but they also do manual work such as moving and welding.
收治前夜，11点，中建三局的十几个工人还在处理一处沟渠的漏水问题，他们戴的是薄薄的粉红色口罩，手因为长时间浸泡在水里，已经发白。
On the eve of the treatment, at 11: 00, a dozen workers from CCB III were still dealing with a leak in a ditch wearing a thin pink mask and their hands were white from prolonged immersion in the water.
一个工人过来加我的微信，说了两个字：「幸会」。
A workman came over to add my message and said two words: "Nice to meet you."
他的头像是一张红色的图，上面还有一行小字，「武汉是一座勇于面对困难、不断战胜困难的城市」。
His portrait is a red picture with a small line, "Wuhan is a brave face of difficulties, constantly overcome the difficulties of the city."
他的最新一条朋友圈是四个字：深夜逆行，配了两张图，其中一张是他从湖北广水老家前往武汉，社区给他开的通行证。
His latest circle of friends had four characters: retrograde late at night with two diagrams, one of which was a laissez-passer from his hometown of Guangshui, Hubei Province, to Wuhan.
上面写道：「我社区居民XX，因支援火神山医院建设需要，驾车前往武汉，情况属实，请予以放行。
"XX, a resident of our community, driving to Wuhan in support of the construction of Fo Shen Shan Hospital, is hereby granted clearance.
」工人就地休息图源长江日报没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People, the Daily Changjiang Daily.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
关于火神山医院的七个细节。
Seven details about Mount Fire Hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "关于火神山医院的七个细节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; about Mount Fire Hospital.
var msg_desc = "火神山的第一天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; day one at Mount Fire.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
