那些隐秘的，伤心的，无畏的故事，都留在了他们车上。
The hidden, sad, fearless stories were left in their cars.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
除了牛奶和饼干，司机的后座上常会捡到医生和护士们留下的礼物，有时候是一罐八宝粥，或者一枚珍贵的N95口罩。
In addition to milk and biscuits, doctors and nurses often pick up gifts from doctors and nurses in the back seat, sometimes a jar of eight-treasure porridge or a precious N95 mask.
文 |林秋铭编辑 |金匝1如果没有这场疫情，今年春节，52岁的李明和他的妻子将会出现在希腊。
RIM & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
这是他和妻子计划已久的旅行，两人提前买好了1月20日的机票，从武汉出发。
It was a long planned trip for him and his wife, who had booked a January 20 flight from Wuhan.
18日那天，他们提前吃了年夜饭，他收到别人转来武汉疫情的消息，随即把机票退了，转身和妻子说，「你一个人去吧。
On the 18th, they ate Chinese New Year's Eve in advance. He received word of the transfer to Wuhan, then returned the plane ticket and said to his wife, "You go alone.
」他决定一个人留在武汉，为了这事儿，妻子到现在都还埋怨他。
"He decided to stay alone in Wuhan, and his wife still complains about it.
李明的警惕不是没有来由。
Li Ming's vigilance is not without cause.
他是一名非全职滴滴司机，他想，如果武汉的疫情爆发，自己留下来一定会有帮助。
He was a part-time drip driver and thought it would help if Wuhan had an outbreak.
2003年，他报名参加了非典抗疫的志愿者。
In 2003, he signed up to volunteer for the SARS epidemic.
那年春天，他驮着18斤的喷雾器到各个街道喷洒消毒药水。
That spring, he carried an 18-pound spray on his back and sprayed disinfectant across the streets.
来回走4个小时，每天要喷4壶，他喷了3个多月。
He spent four hours walking back and forth, four pots a day, and he sprayed them for more than three months.
那时候防护设备还不齐全，他戴最普通的一次性口罩，穿的是一次性雨衣。
At that time the protective equipment was incomplete, he wore the most common disposable mask, wearing a disposable raincoat.
「非典都参加过了，我还怕什么呢？」和李明预想的一样，1月23日，武汉市内的公共交通停摆，各类平台的叫车业务下线，这个城市被强制按下了暂停键。
"SARS has participated, what do I fear?" As Li Ming anticipated, January 23, the city of Wuhan, public transport stopped, all kinds of platforms called off the line, the city was forced to press the pause button.
封城后的一两天，有民间志愿者自发组建过车队接送市民，很快因为安全问题被叫停。
A day or two after the closure of the city, civilian volunteers spontaneously formed a convoy to pick up the citizens, soon because of security problems was stopped.
但情况严峻，医护人员上下班无车可乘，有报道指出，一些医护人员只能选择骑2小时的共享单车到值班的医院。
However, the situation is critical and medical staff do not have access to transport to and from work and there are reports that some medical personnel can only choose to ride bicycles for two hours to the hospital on duty.
另一个巨大隐患也在凸显，武汉各个定点医院清空非肺炎患者后，他们大多在家里服药或被转到偏远的医院，医疗资源被挤兑的同时，如果交通再遇到阻滞，他们将面临断药、中断治疗的风险。
Another huge danger is looming, with Wuhan's designated hospitals emptying patients of non-pneumonia, mostly taking drugs at home or being transferred to remote hospitals, while running out of medical resources while facing the risk of losing medicines and interrupting treatment if they encounter further blockages.
为了解决「禁车」之难，23日封城当天，滴滴平台开始招募武汉当地的司机志愿者，分别负责社区和医院的「摆渡」工作，消息在平台上发出后，李明和另一位滴滴司机安飞在第一时间报了名。
In an effort to solve the problem, drip-drop platforms began recruiting local Wuhan motorists to perform ferry service for their communities and hospitals on the same day. After the announcement was made on the platform, Li Ming and another drip driver made their name at the first time.
李明安飞比李明小14岁，他们和另外两位司机组成了一支社区保障队，负责接送社区里的非肺炎病人来往医院拿药打针、做透析治疗，以及为社区购置药物和蔬菜。
Li Mingfei, 14 years younger than Li Ming, and two other drivers have formed a community support team to transport non-pneumonia patients from the community to hospitals for injections, dialysis treatments and the purchase of medicines and vegetables for the community.
武汉全市，和他们相似的，还有1000多名司机志愿者。
Wuhan city, and their similar, there are more than 1000 drivers volunteers.
社区的工作人员会将消息转发到4位司机的群聊里，对他们分配相应的任务。
Community workers forward messages to a group of four drivers, who are assigned tasks.
李明记得，每次社区发来请求，他们4个人都同时在群里发「我去！」，像以前抢单似的，没有人犹豫。
Li Ming remembers that each time the community sent a request, the four of them simultaneously issued "I go!" in the group, as before, no one hesitated.
「带一个病人去打针。
"Take a patient for an injection.
」一次，李明接到社区的工作人员发来的消息。
"Once, Li Ming received a message from the community workers.
他到了那里才知道，那是一位脑癌患者。
When he got there, he knew it was a brain cancer patient.
她瘫痪了好几年，当时正处于昏迷状态，完全失去了意识，左半边身子是僵硬的，整只手臂都无法动弹。
She was paralyzed for several years, unconscious, stiff on the left side and unable to move her entire arm.
李明和她的丈夫配合着给她穿上了毛衣，把她抬下楼。
With her husband, Li Ming put on a sweater for her and carried her downstairs.
老房子楼道狭小，不过1米左右，无法并肩站人。
The old house is small, but it is about one meter long and cannot stand side by side.
楼梯也陡斜，如果用担架，病人很可能会从担架上滑下来。
The stairs are also steep and, with a stretcher, the patient is likely to slide off the stretcher.
他们只好叫来了邻居和另一位司机，用床单将她整个人兜起，一人拉着床单的一角，一前一后地向下走，将140斤重的她慢慢腾挪到一楼的车里。
So they called in a neighbor and another driver, took her whole person up with the sheets, pulled one corner of the sheet back and forth, and moved the jagged girl slowly into the car on the ground floor.
一层楼的距离，4个男人走了近20分钟。
A floor away, four men walked for nearly 20 minutes.
大年初一直到初十，李明每天都要重复这些动作。
Li Ming repeats these movements every day until the beginning of New Year.
早晨9点钟接到这位病人，在医院门口等待她打完针，12点再开车接她回家。
At nine o'clock in the morning the patient was waiting in front of the hospital for her injection and at twelve he picked her up and went home.
有一回，吊瓶挂了500毫升的量，比平时多了一倍。
In one case, the bottle was hung 500 ml, twice as much as usual.
他们下车后，李明注意到座位上有一滩尿渍——病人小便失禁了。
After they got off the bus, Li Ming noticed a pool of urine stains on his seat---the patient was incontinent.
他默默用水清洗了尿渍，没有和她的家人提起这件事。
He washed the urine stains in silence and did not mention it to her family.
「唉，怎么好意思说呢，人家是病人呀。
"Well, how can you be so kind as to say that they are ill?
」南方人喜欢吃叶子菜，绿油油的青菜是超市里的抢手货，中午就卖得所剩无几。
People in the south like leafy vegetables. Green vegetables are a hot dish in the supermarket and they sell very little at noon.
超市下午5点关门，李明5点30收车，他得在订单之间的缝隙里，抓紧时间去附近的超市排队抢菜，再送往社区。
The supermarket closes at 5pm and Li Ming closes at 5: 30. He has to hurry to the nearby supermarket to grab food and send it to the community in the gap between the orders.
最多的时候，他抢了200多块钱的青菜，开心坏了。
Most of the time, he robbed more than 200 dollars of vegetables, happy bad.
比买菜更困难的是买药。
Buying medicine is more difficult than buying vegetables.
刚封城的那几天，武汉的药房大多都歇业了，李明和他的车队不得不开车走遍了各个城区的药房，一家一家地询问。
During the days after the city was closed, most pharmacies in Wuhan were closed, and Li Ming and his team had to drive around the city's pharmacies, asking questions one after another.
曾经为了某一种特定的处方药，他们4个人从清晨找到下午。
Once for a specific prescription drug, the four of them spent the morning until the afternoon.
司机们在运送物资21月24日的除夕夜，滴滴平台的程序员们也在同样的焦灼中度过。
Drivers in the 21 st of the New Year's Eve delivery materials, drip-drop platform programmers spent the same anxiety.
得到封城的消息后，他们率先发起动作，前后用了31个小时，紧急上线了一套新程序，将它植入App后台。
When word of the siege reached them, it took them 31 hours to jump-start a new program and install it in the App backstage.
医务人员通过滴滴app就能自主完成叫车，并能实时看到车辆的位置。
By dripping apps, paramedics are able to call cars autonomously and see the location of vehicles in real time.
比起人工调配，效率快得多。
It is much more efficient than manual deployment.
截至2月9日，滴滴武汉医护专车已经接入了15家医院和25个院区，共接送了8600多名医护人员。
As of February 9, the drip-drip Wuhan Medical Center had been connected to 15 hospitals and 25 hospital districts, carrying more than 8,600 medical personnel.
程序之外，是鲜活的个体。
Outside the program, is the fresh individual.
与李明、安飞共同维持武汉运转的，是另一支专门保障医护人员的车队，目前人数达到了200余人。
Together with Li Ming and Anfei to maintain the operation of Wuhan, is another specialized medical support team, the current number of more than 200.
他们被拆分为多支小分队，分别驻守不同的医院，接送医护人员上下班，费用由滴滴来承担。
They were split into sub-teams, stationed in separate hospitals to transport medical staff to and from work, and the cost was covered by drops.
胡建斌是其中一支分队的队长，他的队伍里一共有5台车，对接同济医院中法新城院区，那是一家收治肺炎危重病人的救治定点医院。
Hu Jianbin is the leader of one of the team, his team of a total of five cars, docked Tongji Hospital in France Xincheng District, a hospital for the treatment of critically ill patients with pneumonia.
胡建斌的生物钟被完全打乱。
Hu Jianbin's biological clock was completely disrupted.
每天，他至少会接10个左右的订单，为了接下夜班的医生和护士，他需要在凌晨1点左右蹲守在医院门口，3点到家入睡，7点起床继续送早班的医护上班。
Every day, he would take at least 10 orders and, in order to pick up night-shift doctors and nurses, he would have to stay at the hospital gate at around 1 a.m., get home by 3 a.m. and get up at 7 o'clock to continue the morning shift.
疲惫得不行，他就把车停在离医院2公里左右的位置，趴在方向盘上小小地打个盹。
Exhausted, he parked his car about 2 kilometers from the hospital and took a small nap on the steering wheel.
胡建斌医疗保障队里仅有2名女性司机，何明荣是其中一位。
He is one of only two female drivers on Hu's medical support team.
和胡建斌一样，她也是第一批报名接送医护人员的100位滴滴司机之一。
Like Mr. Hu, she was one of the first 100 drip drivers to pick up paramedics.
武汉封城之后，何明荣执意留了下来。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, Ho Mingrong insisted on staying.
她把儿子和丈夫支回了新疆的老家，独自一人在武汉跑车。
She sent her son and husband back to Xinjiang, alone in the Wuhan sports car.
留下来的司机中，她是为数不多的外地人。
She was one of the few strangers left behind.
她一个人在出租屋里度过了除夕，公司给他们每人都发了「年夜饭」，那是一个番茄味的自热小火锅，「你看，公司多贴心，这个火锅是不辣的。
She spent New Year's Eve alone in a rental house, and everyone was given a "New Year's Eve dinner," a tomato-flavored hot pot. "You see, how close the company is, this hot pot is not hot.
」前年，还是全职太太的她跟随上大学的儿子到了武汉居住。
The year before last, as a full-time wife, she went to live in Wuhan with her son, who was a college student.
她笑自己只会开车，所以做了一名滴滴司机。
She laughed at her ability to drive, so she became a drip driver.
「我喜欢武汉这座城市。
"I like the city of Wuhan.
以前开车，就是想多看看武汉的风景，去年我和儿子去看了武大的樱花，非常震撼。
Before driving, just want to see more Wuhan scenery, last year my son and I went to see Wu Da cherry blossoms, very shocked.
」她说，「但武汉被封以后，就完全变了样。
"Wuhan," she said, "was completely different after the closure.
」何明荣在车里听到过不同的哭声。
He heard different cries in the car.
几天前，她接一位同济医院的护士下班。
A few days ago, she picked up a nurse from Tongji Hospital.
护士看起来二十出头，在路上，她接到了一通电话，边打边哭了起来。
The nurse looked in her early twenties, and on the way she got a phone call and began to cry.
她告诉何明荣，电话那头是她的同事，一家四口有两人确诊，那位同事和婆婆住进了隔离病房，剩下丈夫和一个两岁多的孩子。
She told him that at the other end of the line was her colleague, who had been diagnosed by two out of four. The colleague and her mother-in-law were admitted to the isolation ward, leaving her husband and a two-year-old.
现在，丈夫也出现了咳嗽发烧的症状。
Now, the husband also has cough and fever symptoms.
「娃娃该怎么办呀？」护士哭得停不下来，她和同事都慌了阵脚。
"What should I do with the doll?" cried the nurse, and she and her colleagues panicked.
何明荣劝她，「娃娃抵抗力好，先带他检查一下。
He Mingrong advised her, "doll resistance is good, take him to examine first.
你现在不能哭，要鼓励你的同事，她家里人都还很年轻，康复的可能性很大。
You can't cry now. Encourage your co-workers, all of whom are still young and have a good chance of recovery.
」她劝完那位护士，自己扭头在护目镜下无声流泪。
"She persuaded the nurse to turn her head and shed silent tears under the goggles.
一天早上10点，一位同样年轻的护士哭着坐进了她的车。
One morning at ten o'clock, an equally young nurse sat down in her car, crying.
那位护士才怀孕不久，丈夫和婆婆都回了老家，她留在武汉，继续在一线工作。
Not long after the nurse became pregnant, her husband and mother-in-law returned home. She stayed in Wuhan and continued to work on the front line.
前一天晚上，她上完夜班，一觉醒来，肚子莫名剧痛。
The night before, she had been on the night shift and had woken up with a terrible pain in her stomach.
她艰难地走下了楼，准备去妇幼保健院，却一直打不到车。
She trudged downstairs to go to the MCH, but could not get a taxi.
坐进何明荣的车，护士开始嚎啕大哭。
The nurse began to wail as she got into Ho Mingrong's car.
「我不明白，这一切究竟是为什么？」何明荣劝了她两句，过了好一会儿，她才缓过来。
"I don't understand why all this is?" He Mingrong advised her to talk, after a while, she recovered.
后来，护士把眼泪擦了擦，带着哭腔自言自语，「我今天还要上夜班，等我白天检查完了，我得好好休息一下，吃个饭，才能上好夜班。
"Then the nurse wiped her tears and said to herself," I have to work at night today. When I have finished my daytime check, I need a good rest and a meal before I can get into the night shift.
」何明荣扭过头，仔细端详了她的脸，那位护士不过才二十七八岁的模样。
He turned his head and studied her face. The nurse was only seven or eight years old.
何明荣心疼她，「孩子，你有没有想过，疫情过去了，咱们不干这一行？」护士挂着一双朦胧的泪眼，摇了摇头。
Ho Ming-rong loved her. "Have you ever thought, son, that the epidemic is over and let's not do this?" The nurse shook her head with hazy tears.
「我那时候心想，她还都只是孩子，碰到这种大是大非，都能这么明事理。
"I thought at the time that she was only a child, that she could be so sensible in such a big situation.
」何明荣说，「在这个环境里做司机，我听到太多故事了。
"I've heard too many stories about being a driver in this environment," he said.
一到晚上的时候，我都不能细想，不敢从头理一遍，太难了，太难了。
At night, I can't even think about it, dare not cut it all over again, it's too difficult, too difficult.
」何明荣3每天早晨5点，李明便起床了。
He Mingrong 3 Every morning at 5 o'clock, Li Ming got up.
武汉人讲究「过早」，他给自己煮了些饺子或面条，那是一天中重要的一顿，因为下一顿还不知道什么时候再能吃上。
Wuhan people stress "too early," he cooked himself some dumplings or noodles, that is an important meal of the day, because the next do not know when to eat.
车里弥漫着浓郁的消毒液的味道，穿戴上亮黄色的防护服和口罩，整个人像置身在一个蒸笼里，不断向外冒汗。
The car smelled of disinfectant, wearing a bright yellow suit and mask, and the whole body was in a steamer, sweating.
他偶尔会开窗透透气，但过了一会儿又有些担心，赶紧把车窗摇上。
Occasionally he would open the window to air, but after a while he was a little worried and hurriedly rolled up the window.
自从武汉开始大力建设地铁之后，堵车就成了这个城市撇不开的话题。
Since Wuhan began to vigorously build the subway, the traffic jam has become the topic of the city.
但现在这个问题不复存在，街上已经没有多少行人和车，安静得只听见外头的雨水轻轻打在车窗上的声音。
But now that the problem was over, there were not many pedestrians or cars on the streets, and the quiet could only hear the rain beating against the windows outside.
他是土生土长的武汉人，但从这个冬天开始，他对武汉有了些许陌生。
He is a native of Wuhan, but since this winter, he has a little strange to Wuhan.
中午，社区保障队的司机可以回到社区的办公室，用方便面解决午饭这个难题。
At noon, the community support team driver can go back to the community office and use instant noodles to solve the lunch problem.
医护保障车队没有定点休息，只能在给车充电的间隙，边等着充电，边找热水泡面。
Medical support convoys have no fixed rest, only to charge the car in the gap, while waiting to charge, while looking for hot water bubble.
20分钟电就能充满，他们要利用短暂的间隙，在狭小的驾驶座上把面吃完，暂时没有接到订单的时候，还能在后座躺上几分钟。
They can fill it in 20 minutes, eat it up in the narrow cockpit, and lie in the back seat for a few minutes if they don't get an order.
现在，留守在武汉的每个滴滴司机都害怕再看到泡面。
Now, every drip driver left behind in Wuhan is afraid to see the noodles again.
不论是哪种口味的，闻到那股味道就反胃，但还是得吃。
Whatever the taste, it turns your stomach when you smell it, but you still have to eat it.
滴滴公司定期向他们发放物资，包括防护服、口罩、一次性手套和消毒液。
Drop-drop companies regularly distribute supplies to them, including protective clothing, masks, disposable gloves and disinfectant.
每次出车前，他们要花上近半小时对全车进行消毒，再套上防护服和手套，口罩需要戴两层，一次性口罩的外面罩着一个N95口罩。
Before each trip, they spent nearly half an hour disinfecting the vehicle, wearing protective clothing and gloves, wearing a two-layer mask and a N95 mask over the outside of a disposable mask.
防护服里湿闷，口罩透不过气，但只能忍上整整一天。
Damp in protective clothing, mask suffocating, but only for a whole day.
口罩上的绳子常把耳朵后根磨破，暴露的伤口让司机们心慌。
The rope on the mask often rubs the back of the ear and exposes the wounds to the driver's nerves.
物资的紧俏始终是抗疫的共同痛点。
The shortage of supplies has always been a common sore point in the fight against epidemics.
滴滴公司在后方为一线司机四处求援，公司总裁柳青在微博上发出抗疫物资求助帖。
Drop-drip company in the rear for the first-line driver around, the company president Liu Qing on Weibo issued anti-epidemic material help post.
不论是前线还是后方，都在竭力守卫着每一套防护服。
Every suit was being guarded, whether on the front or the rear.
无法预知下一次发放的时间点，司机们只能尽可能地节省。
Unable to predict when the next release will take place, drivers will have to save as much as possible.
逼不得已的时候，一套防护服要穿上3天，用酒精喷过一遍后，放在后备箱里，下次接着穿。
As a last resort, a suit should be worn for three days, sprayed with alcohol, placed in the trunk, and worn next time.
防护服穿脱不方便，内层一旦接触到外部空气就会遭到污染。
Wear protective clothing inconvenient, the inner layer once in contact with the outside air will be contaminated.
有一回，李明着急上厕所，「脱不赢」防护服，不得不尿在了防护服里。
Once, Li Ming was in a hurry to go to the toilet. He had to pee in his protective clothing.
他后来有了经验，每天出车前只喝一杯水，尽量不去卫生间。
He later had the experience of drinking only one glass of water before going out every day and trying not to go to the bathroom.
回一次社区就要洗一次手，每天近乎要洗上二三十遍。
The community washes its hands once a day, nearly twenty or thirty times a day.
李明的手被洗得通红，长了不少冻疮。
Li Ming's hands were washed red and he grew many frostbite.
冻疮破了，冲冷水的时候生疼。
Frostbite is broken and hurts when you flush cold water.
和李明相反，安飞的手泛着不同寻常的雪白，他有时着急出任务，没来得及戴手套，只能干完活再用酒精消毒。
In contrast to Li Ming, Anfei's hands were unusually white. Sometimes he was too anxious to go out on a mission. He had to finish his work before disinfecting it with alcohol.
因为长期直接接触酒精和消毒液，原来粗糙坚硬的双手被泡得柔软，干巴巴的，没有血色。
Because long-term direct contact with alcohol and disinfectant, originally rough hard hands were soaked soft, dry, no color.
滴滴司机们在运送物资4除了物资和工作上的难，司机们还需要承担更多的苦。
Drop-drop drivers are delivering supplies. In addition to material and work difficulties, drivers have to bear more hardship.
高压的环境里，心中的压力与日俱增。
Stress increases with each passing day in a stressful environment.
「现在的武汉就在生死边缘，没有那么多考虑的东西，大家无非就是默默地干。
"Wuhan is now on the edge of life and death, there is not so much to consider, we do nothing but silently.
」胡建斌说。
"said Hu.
接受采访那天，他才送完一位医护人员，把车停在小区的停车场里，又有另一位队员找他拿物资，他急着把车开出去，没想到在小区花坛的拐角，一不留神，撞了。
On the day of the interview, he was able to deliver a paramedics, parked in the parking lot of the community, another member of the team to get supplies, he rushed out of the car, did not expect in the corner of the flower beds, inadvertently hit.
车子右边的后轮撞落了花坛的一大块瓷砖，车身被刮出近半米长的划痕。
The rear wheel to the right of the car hit a large piece of tile in the flower bed and the body was scratched nearly half a metre long.
那条划痕成了压垮胡建斌的一根小小稻草，他在电话里语气激动，「你知道吗？我们小区不到25栋楼，已经有10个确诊，都没能住进医院，我那个单元就有一个。
The scratch became a little straw that crushed Hu Jianbin, and he said excitedly on the phone, "You know, we have less than 25 buildings in our neighborhood, 10 of them have been diagnosed, none of which can be admitted to the hospital, and one in my unit.
你有没有在网上看到一个叫做何辉的志愿者？他以前是我的领导，都是朝夕相伴的人啊，几天就没了，孤零零地一个人走了，火化的时候旁边没有一个人。
Have you ever seen a volunteer named Ho Hui on the Internet? He was my leader, he was accompanied by the people, a few days away, alone, no one beside the cremation time.
根本没有什么感同身受，你明白吧？」他变得越来越谨慎。
There's no empathy at all, you know? "He became more cautious.
过去几天，他在地下室停好车，会把护目镜和防护服悉数脱下再上楼。
In the past few days, he had parked his car in the basement and would take off all his goggles and protective clothing before going upstairs.
现在，他开始担心了，什么也不敢脱下，就穿着这么一身鼓鼓囊囊的衣服走回家。
Now, he began to worry, did not dare to take off anything, wearing such a bulging clothes walk home.
开车走过武汉的街头，他想起自己曾经读过一本法国作家写的书，名叫《垂直的国度》，「武汉有那么多高楼，就和书里写的一样，每一栋都是垂直的街道，都在向外散发着病毒。
Driving through the streets of Wuhan, he remembered that he had read a book by a French writer called The Vertical Country. "Wuhan had so many tall buildings, every one of which, like the book, was a vertical street, spreading the virus outwards.
」面对这些压力和恐惧，胡建斌的方法是「打碎了牙，往肚子里咽」、「要让别人看到正向的一面」。
In the face of these pressures and fears, Mr. Hu's approach was to "smash your teeth, swallow into your stomach" and "let others see the positive side."
医护人员开了车门，他就转过身，冲他们喊一句，「加油啊」，这是他的例行告别。
When the paramedics opened the door, he turned to them and shouted, "Come on," which was his usual farewell.
报名了这次志愿者活动，安飞已经十多天没有和家人好好相处过了。
After registering for this volunteer activity, Anfei has not gotten along well with her family for more than ten days.
他把妻子和孩子安排到了妻子的娘家，每天只有一次见面的机会。
He placed his wife and children at his wife's house, where they met only once a day.
下午下班以后，安飞把车停在路边，妻子把做好的饭菜放在饭盒里，递给他，过程不过几秒。
After work in the afternoon, Amway parked his car on the side of the road. His wife put the food in the lunch box and handed it to him.
「家里有小孩，有老人，我怕万一把病毒带给他们的话，就不知道去照顾谁了。
"There are children, there are old people, I am afraid a million viruses brought to them, do not know who to take care of.
」孩子只有4岁大，以前安飞出完车下班回家，总会抱一抱他。
The child, who was only four years old, used to hug Ann when she came home from work.
现在，他只能在视频里逗逗他。
Now, he can only tease him in the video.
前天，他和妻子念叨：「我半个月都没有抱他了。
The day before yesterday, he and his wife said, "I haven't held him for half a month.
」「我家里也有亲人确诊去世了，那天他走了之后，我突然意识到自己真的在做一件危险的事。
"" I also had a family member diagnosed and died, and when he left that day, I suddenly realized that I was doing something really dangerous.
可是总是还要有人去做啊，要是都不出来的话，社区里那些病人怎么办呢？我们不能让他们直接等死，对不对？」安飞说。
But there will always be people to do it. If they don't come out, what will happen to the patients in the community? We can't let them just wait to die, can we? "Anfield said.
李明和安飞所在的车队，原来共有5个人。
The convoy in which Li Ming and Anfei were travelling was originally five men.
偶然，安飞联系到那位离开的司机，才知道他已经被隔离了。
By chance, Amway contacted the departing driver and found out that he was in quarantine.
闲聊中，他对安飞说，「当时接了一个老太太，没有发烧和任何异状，也没说有病，但过了3天，那老太太就因为新冠走了。
During the chat, he told him, "There was an old woman who was not feverish or ill, but three days later the old lady went away with her new crown.
」安飞听完，心里一惊，「我当时想，完了，谁知道下一个乘客有没有病呢。
"When he heard this, he was startled," I thought, "It's over. Who knows if the next passenger is sick?
」安飞说，「我现在只庆幸一件事，我没有接触过我的家人，即使有病毒，到我为止就好了。
"I'm just glad I didn't touch my family," Anfield said. "I wish I had the virus.
」比起自己，安飞更担心李明师傅。
"He was more worried about Master Li Ming than he was about himself.
李明长期患有高血压和糖尿病，虽然他会随身带着这些药片，但安飞知道，有基础疾病的人，感染新型冠状病毒肺炎后，病症会更加凶猛。
Li Ming has a long history of high blood pressure and diabetes, and although he will carry these tablets with him, Feifei knows that people with basic diseases will become more severe after contracting the new coronavirus pneumonia.
身边的人劝李明别做了，他一一婉拒。
People around him advised Li Ming not to do it, he declined.
「我觉得我身体没问题的，」像他曾经参加的非典一样，「我会坚持到疫情结束的那天。
"I think I'm fine," he said. "Like SARS, which he once attended," I will stay there until the end of the epidemic.
」滴滴社区保障车队5疫情发生的当下，1300多位滴滴司机的后座上承载着太多的情绪。
More than 1,300 drip-drip drivers are carrying too much emotion in the backseat of a drip-drip convoy at a time when the epidemic is unfolding.
一名护士在车里倾吐自己的无助，独自照顾6个床位的病人已经让她备感吃力，现在又被增加了2个床位的工作量。
A nurse who poured out her helplessness in the car to care for a six-bed patient on her own has stretched her to the limit, adding two beds to her workload.
另一名护士半开玩笑地说起自己第一次值班的窘态，她不熟悉那些器械，手忙脚乱，和病患沟通，平缓他们的情绪，也耗尽了她的精力。
Another half-joked about her first duty embarrassment. She was unfamiliar with the equipment, frantic, communicating with patients, calming their emotions and draining her energy.
但更多时候，司机们会看到医护人员沉默地瘫坐在后座上。
But more often than not, drivers see paramedics crashing in the back seat in silence.
「我把车开慢一点，你可以眯一下。
"I'll slow the car down. You can have a squint.
」李明做完社区的工作，也会帮忙着接一些医院的单子。
"When Li Ming finishes his community work, he will also help with some hospital bills.
他只能用这样的方式，安抚那些累坏了的医生和护士。
This was the only way he could placate the tired doctors and nurses.
他对一位曾姓医生印象很深。
He was impressed by a doctor with a surname.
在李明接送他上下班之前，曾医生靠自己的腿足足走了三天的路。
Before Li Ming saw him off to work, he had covered three days on his own legs.
他所在的武汉市第三医院和社区距离7公里，他走得慢，每天要徒步走3个小时。
He walked slowly, walking three hours a day at Wuhan City's Third Hospital and the community, 7 kilometers away.
大年初四，曾医生无法坚持下去，只好打电话给了社区，请李明帮忙。
At the beginning of the year, Dr. Zeng couldn't hold on, so he called the community and asked Li Ming for help.
李明问他，「你需要车的话，为什么不直接和我们说呢？」「我不好意思和你们说，不想麻烦你们，但我实在是走不动了。
Li Ming asked him, "If you need a car, why don't you just tell us?" "I'm sorry to tell you that I don't want to bother you, but I can't walk anymore."
」曾医生苦笑。
"Dr Tsang smiled bitterly.
偶尔碰面，他总会给李明塞些牛奶和饼干，向他解释，是「医院发给他们的」。
Once in a while, he would cram some milk and biscuits into Li Ming and explain that it was "given to them by the hospital."
李明知道，曾医生对他说了谎，牛奶是8盒一个的礼品包装，一定不是医院送的。
Li Ming knew that Doctor Zeng had lied to him. Milk was a gift package of eight boxes. It must not have been sent by the hospital.
除了牛奶和饼干，司机的后座上常会捡到医生和护士们留下的礼物，有时候是一罐八宝粥，或者一枚珍贵的N95口罩。
In addition to milk and biscuits, doctors and nurses often pick up gifts from doctors and nurses in the back seat, sometimes a jar of eight-treasure porridge or a precious N95 mask.
沉默的城市里，关怀也是悄然的。
In the silent city, the concern is also quietly.
何明荣几乎没见过车队的其他同伴。
He has barely seen the rest of the team.
她称他们为「兄弟」，只记得他们的名字和头像，会偶尔闪现在群聊里。
She called them "brothers" and only remembered their names and heads, which occasionally flashed into group chats.
但是他们有各自打招呼的方式，在外出车的时候，如果看到车上贴着滴滴的标识，她会按上一喇叭。
But they say hello to each other, and when out in the car, if she sees a drip mark on it, she honks.
对方也会回一声喇叭，以示问好。
The other person also honks back to say hello.
然后，两辆车又在下一个路口分离，驶向不同的街道。
The two vehicles then separated at the next intersection and headed for a different street.
他们车上备有84消毒液，但没有酒精。
They had 84 disinfectants in their cars, but no alcohol.
偌大一个武汉，哪里都买不到酒精了。
Such a large Wuhan, can not buy alcohol anywhere.
有一次，她记不清是哪个兄弟弄来了一矿泉水瓶的酒精，就在群里吆喝「我这儿搞到了一点酒精，在XX地点，你们快过来取。
Once, she could not remember which brother had got a bottle of alcohol, and shouted in the group, "I have got some alcohol here. Come and get it at XX.
」路过的司机就拿着随身携带的小喷壶去分，大家都只敢接几十毫升，不敢接多，酒精太珍贵，要留给其他兄弟。
"Passing the driver with a small pot to share, we are only dare to take dozens of milliliters, do not dare to take more, alcohol is too precious, to leave other brothers.
每晚到家后，她要在群里发一句「到家了」报平安。
Every night when she got home, she would send a "home" message in the group.
这一群没有打过照面的司机们约好，疫情结束后，要出来好好吃个饭。
The group of drivers who had not been seen had made an appointment to come out and have a good meal after the outbreak.
滴滴公司为这些前线的车队兄弟们筑好了防护的后盾，从2月11日起，滴滴在武汉等地试点，在网约车的车内装上了防护隔离膜，为网约车带上一层口罩。
From February 11, drip drops in Wuhan and other places were pilot-tested, in the car equipped with a protective barrier film, for the mesh car wearing a mask.
看上去，就像给司机罩上了一个透明的防护舱。
It looks like a transparent protective capsule for the driver.
他们向医护人员和专业人士请教过，在车内加装塑料隔离膜可行性较高，一定程度上可以防止飞沫传播。
They consulted medical staff and professionals, in the car with plastic isolation film feasibility is high, to some extent can prevent the spread of droplets.
滴滴在公开发布的声明里承认，这是「特殊时期的笨办法，甚至有点简陋」，但「愿意尝试多种可能」，保护一线司机。
In a public statement, the drip acknowledged that it was "a clumsy, even rudimentary, approach in special times," but "willing to try many possibilities" to protect front-line drivers.
车内的防护隔离膜作为车队长的胡建斌说话直爽，他对队员的关怀来得有些粗暴。
The car's protective barrier film as the car captain of Hu Jianbin straightforward to speak, his care for the team members came a bit rough.
一位护士在车上和他闲聊，在同济医院中法新城院区有司机没有穿防护服、戴护目镜。
A nurse chatted with him on the bus and there were drivers in Tongji Hospital wearing no protective clothing and goggles.
他气坏了，「中法新城院区是收治危重病人的，医护都是极高危人群。
He was so angry that he said, "The Xincheng District is for the critically ill. Medical care is a very high-risk group.
我们还要接其他医护人员，要是不保护好自己，把其他人感染了怎么办？」他急得在群里发消息，警示其他司机：「我们是次高危人群，一定要高度注意自身防护措施。
What if we don't protect ourselves and infect other people? "he warned other drivers," We're a sub-high-risk group. We have to be very careful about our own precautions. "
」他在最后说，「我们医护保障首发战队，一定要做到零感染、零伤亡，全胜归来！！！」发出的消息占了满屏，这两句只是其中的节选——他急切地想保护好车队里的兄弟。
In conclusion, he said, "Our primary care team, to ensure zero infection, zero casualties, win back!!" issued a full screen of news, these two sentences are just one of the two sentences - he is eager to protect his brother in the convoy.
「医护队员200多人，社区服务队还有1000多号人。
"There are more than 200 medical staff and more than 1,000 community service teams.
我不想说自己多英雄，我只是群像中的一个，只能是群像。
I don't want to say how heroic I am, I am just one of the group, can only be a group image.
」胡建斌说。
"said Hu.
2月8日那天，胡建斌发了一条朋友圈，将车队兄弟的名字一一写上——「我们没有英雄事迹，只有行驶的轨迹。
On February 8, Hu sent out a circle of friends and wrote down the names of the team's brothers. "We have no heroic deeds, only a track.
多年以后请记住这些普通的名字：曹畅、黄飞、童亮、刘金鑫、何明荣、刘青洲、係金玉、黄腾飞、周义凯、周世钧、宗涛、刘树成、刘邱斌、王有为、别华容、李亚平、董浩、毛腾……」车内的椅背上的贴纸没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
After many years, please remember these common names: Cao Chang, Huang Fei, Tong Liang, Liu Jinxin, He Mingrong, Liu Qingzhou, Rongyu, Huang Tengfei, Zhou Yicai, Zhou Shijun, Zong Tao, Liu Shu-shing, Liu Qiubin, Wang Youwei, Bei Hua Rong, Li Yaping, Dong Hao, Maoteng.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些隐秘的，伤心的，无畏的故事，都留在了他们车上。
The hidden, sad, fearless stories were left in their cars.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那些隐秘的，伤心的，无畏的故事，都留在了他们车上";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
var msg_desc = "穿梭在武汉街头的1300多位司机。
var msg _ desc = & quot; more than 1,300 drivers who shuttled through Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
