湖北数据大幅波动意味着什么？。
What does Hubei data fluctuate greatly mean?
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
The following article comes from DT财经。
The following article comes from DT Finance.
Author 持续更新的DT君。
Author continuously updates the DT Prince.
DT财经。
DT Finance.
第一财经旗下数据研究型新媒体，用大数据解读消费社会和商业图景，连接数据、机构和人群。
First Financial's new data-research media uses big data to decipher consumer social and business landscapes, linking data, institutions and people.
。
.
15.02.2020本文字数：2814，阅读时长大约5分钟导读：我们尽力梳理和分析了疫情爆发以来湖北的公开信息与数据，应该可以帮助大家快速了解湖北现在的处境、接下来的挑战，以及可见的希望。
We have tried our best to comb and analyze the open information and data of Hubei Province since the outbreak of the outbreak, which should help us to quickly understand the current situation of Hubei, the challenges ahead and the prospects for the future.
作者 | 罗钰婧、何书瑶数据 |罗钰婧、张倍迪、高斌设计 |邹磊、赵芸来源 | DT财经（ID：DTcaijing）2月13日一大早，大家醒来的第一件事，应该都是收到了湖北新增14840例新冠肺炎确诊病例的推送消息；随后，接连两天下降，2月15日早上，这个数字又降到了2420。
Rao Yujing, Ho Shuyao, Lo Yujing, Zhang Beidi, Gao Yun-ying and Zhao Yun-yun first woke up early February 13. DT Finance (ID: DTcaijing) woke up with news of 14,840 new cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia in Hubei province.
从这几天的新闻中，各位想必也了解，新增病例数飙升主要是因为首次将临床诊断病例纳入统计，并且可参照确诊病例治疗。
As you are aware from the news these days, the increase in the number of new cases is mainly due to the inclusion of clinical diagnoses in the statistics for the first time and can be treated with reference to confirmed cases.
具体来说这里的临床诊断标准是：只要符合“发热和/或呼吸道症状”、“发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少”这两条临床表现，便可考虑为疑似病例。
Specifically, the clinical criteria are: as long as the "fever and / or respiratory symptoms", "the number of leukocytes in the early stage of onset is normal or reduced, or the lymphocyte count decreases," these two clinical manifestations can be considered as suspected cases.
疑似病例只要具有肺炎影像学特征者，为临床诊断病例。
Suspected cases are clinically diagnosed as long as they have the imaging features of pneumonia.
新增病例一日破万的数据虽然像一座大山压在人们心头，但也实实在在地告诉我们，那些曾经在名单之外的患者终于得到了确诊，可以接受治疗。
New cases per day, though overwhelming, tell us that those who were not on the list have finally been diagnosed and treated.
当然，还有很多人不解，数字剧烈波动的湖北现在到底是个什么情况。
Of course, many people do not know, the number of violent fluctuations in Hubei is now what the situation is.
跟各位一样，我们没办法测算湖北还有多少病人需要确诊，也很难预判接下来的数字会继续飙升，还是大幅回落。
Like all of you, we have no way of measuring how many patients in Hubei need to be diagnosed, and it is hard to predict whether the next numbers will continue to soar or fall sharply.
但是，我们尽力梳理和分析了疫情爆发以来湖北的公开信息与数据，应该可以帮助大家快速了解湖北现在的处境、接下来的挑战，以及可见的希望。
However, we have tried our best to comb and analyze the open information and data of Hubei province since the outbreak, which should help us understand the situation of Hubei, the challenges ahead and the hope.
湖北疫情发展的几个转折点我们先来回顾一下，湖北的新增确诊病例数量变化，以及对应各个时间节点上的事件。
Several turning points in the development of Hubei epidemic Let us first review the number of newly diagnosed cases in Hubei Province and the corresponding events at various time points.
各位对于武汉和湖北在这场疫情前期的“遗憾”表现应该都有所了解，比如说，尽管12月31日已经有国家卫建委专家组抵达武汉，但“未见明显人传人”、“疫情可防可控”、“不排除有限人传人”一直延续到了湖北省“两会”闭幕。
Wuhan and Hubei provinces in the early stage of the epidemic should be aware of the "regrettable" performance, for example, although December 31 has been the National Health Commission experts arrived in Wuhan, "no obvious person-to-person," "epidemic preventable controllable," "do not exclude limited person-to-person" until the end of the "two-party congress" in Hubei Province.
下图的盘点中，也可以清晰地看出各个遗憾点，这里我们不再赘述。
In the stock-taking below, we can also clearly see the various regret points, we will not repeat them here.
我们主要关心几个与新增确诊病例数量上升相关的转折点。
We are primarily concerned with a few turning points related to the increase in the number of newly confirmed cases.
可以看到，湖北省新增确诊病例的数字变化，除了与核酸检测试剂的研发与生产进度有关外，与有关部门疫情防控力度不断加强也息息相关。
As can be seen, the number of newly diagnosed cases in Hubei Province, in addition to the development of nucleic acid detection reagents and production schedule, and the strengthening of disease prevention and control efforts with the relevant departments.
1月19日，国家卫健委宣布开始下放检测试剂盒；1月20日，经国务院批准同意，国家卫健委将新冠肺炎纳入法定传染病，钟南山通过央视确认新冠病毒人传人——这一天之后，新冠肺炎新增确诊病例数开始达到三位数。
On January 19, the National Fitness and Health Commission announced that it had begun to decentralize test kits. On January 20, with the approval of the State Council, the State Council added the new crown pneumonia to the statutory infectious disease.
1月25日，党中央成立应对疫情工作领导小组，向湖北等疫情严重地区派出指导组；1月27日，中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理孙春兰率中央指导组抵达湖北。
On January 25, the Central Committee of the Party established a Leading Group to Address the Epidemic and other Serious Epidemics, and on January 27, a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC, Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, led the Central Steering Group to Hubei Province.
1月30日，黄冈市卫健委主任唐志红被免职；2月4日，湖北省红十字会3名领导因渎职被问责。
On January 30, Tang Zhihong, director of the Huanggang Health Care Commission, was dismissed. On February 4, three Hubei Red Cross leaders were held accountable for negligence.
这期间，湖北的每日新增确诊病例数开始上升至四位数。
During this period, the number of newly confirmed cases per day in Hubei began to rise to four digits.
▲图片来源：央视网在2月4日新华社对中央指导组的报道中，提到了“应收尽收”。
Source: CCTV reported on the February 4 Xinhua news agency to the central guidance group, referred to "receivable received."
▲图片来源：新华网2月5日，《湖北省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部令》提出确保疑似和确诊病例“应收尽收、应治尽治”。
Xinhua News Network February 5, Hubei Province, the new coronavirus infection pneumonia command order to ensure that suspected and confirmed cases of "receivable, should be treated."
从之后的公开报道来看，这也是湖北这段时间以来防控工作的重点。
From the public reports that followed, this is Hubei this time since the focus of the prevention and control work.
在这期间，随着湖北省卫健委领导免职、湖北省委书记和武汉市委书记调任，湖北新增确诊病例数量呈现出“W型”的波动，在2月12日更是因为改变标准而骤增。
During this period, the number of newly confirmed cases in Hubei Province fluctuated "W-type" with the dismissal of the Hubei Wei Bodyguard leadership, the transfer of the secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee and the secretary of Wuhan Municipal Party Committee, and a sharp increase in the number of newly diagnosed cases in Hubei Province.
这个数字飙升的同时，我们可以看到：2月11日，孙春兰在实地查看隔离观察点和方舱医院时指出，宁可让床等人，也不要让人等床；在2月12日的武汉疫情防控指挥部会议上，中央指导组副组长陈一新判断，武汉感染者底数还没有完全摸清，蔓延扩散的规模也没有较为精准的估计预测。
While the figures are soaring, we can see that on February 11, Sun Chunlan, visiting the quarantine observation point and the cabin hospital on the spot, said that he would prefer to let people wait for beds rather than wait for beds.
据有关方面推算，武汉潜在被感染的基数可能还比较大。
According to the relevant calculation, Wuhan is likely to be infected with a large base.
流行性传染病的防控有三把刀——控制传染源、切断传播途径和保护易感人群。
The prevention and control of epidemic diseases has three knives - controlling the source of infection, cutting off transmission routes, and protecting vulnerable populations.
只有每把刀都落到实处，才有可能以最快的速度控制住它的流行。
Only when every knife is in place will it be possible to control its popularity as quickly as possible.
所以，我们可以认为，2月12日这个飙升的数字，是疫情防控的又一个转折点。
So we can say that the February 12 surge was another turning point in the epidemic's prevention and control.
湖北面临的困境但我们也要认识到，即便有向好的迹象，湖北现在的防控工作还是很难。
Hubei faces the predicament but we also must realize, even if has the good sign, Hubei present control work is very difficult.
我们这里要继续说一下重症率和收治率这两个数字。
Let's move on to the numbers of severe cases and admissions.
从1月23日到2月11日，湖北省内的滚动重症率走向大致呈“W”型。
From January 23 to February 11, the rolling critical-disease rate in Hubei province was roughly "W" type.
在疫情爆发早期的1月27日前后，湖北省的重症率出现第一次高峰。
Hubei province had its first peak on or about January 27, the early days of the outbreak.
由于当时核酸检测试剂不足，只能供症状明显的患者使用，因而重症率较高。
Due to the lack of nucleic acid detection reagents at that time, can only be used for patients with obvious symptoms, so the rate of serious illness is high.
2月初，湖北的重症率开始降低，但也维持在15%左右。
In early February, the rate of serious illness in Hubei province began to decline, but also remained at about 15 percent.
但如果与湖北省外的数据相比，这个数字还是偏高很多。
But when compared with data from outside Hubei province, the figure is still much higher.
到目前为止，湖北外地区的重症率虽然略有波动，但已连续多日低于10%，而且还处于下降的轨道上。
So far, the rate of serious disease outside Hubei area has fluctuated slightly, but it has been less than 10% for several days in a row, and it is on a declining track.
即使是在2月12日，由于湖北省将临床病例纳入确诊病例导致累计病例大幅增加，湖北的重症率依旧有14.7%，比湖北外地区的数据高出6.5个百分点。
Even on Feb. 12, the rate of serious cases in Hubei province rose by 14.7 percent, 6.5 percentage points higher than that in Hubei province, due to the inclusion of clinical cases in confirmed cases.
而且，确证病例大幅上升背后，还有收治能力难以匹配的困境。
And, behind the surge in confirmed cases is the difficulty of matching treatment capacity.
这里，我们还计算了另外一个数据，入院收治率。
Here, we also calculated another data, admission rate.
从1月27日开始，湖北省卫健委开始公布在院治疗病例的数量。
From Jan. 27, the Hubei Wei Bodyguard Commission began to announce the number of cases being treated in hospitals.
通过确诊病例、死亡病例、治愈病例和在院治疗病例的数量，我们可以计算出确诊但未能入院患者的数量。
Through the number of confirmed cases, deaths, cured cases and cases treated in institutions, we can calculate the number of patients diagnosed but not admitted.
再结合现有确诊病例数量，我们可以算出湖北省的确诊病人入院收治率。
Combined with the existing number of confirmed cases, we can calculate the admission rate of confirmed patients in Hubei Province.
在湖北省公开入院收治人数的前几天，我们可以看到，官方公布的收治率连续5天达到100%。
A few days before admission to hospitals in Hubei province, we could see that the official admission rate reached 100 percent for five consecutive days.
在2月1日，人民网报道称：截至1月31日23时，武汉23家定点医院仍有空床位389个。
As of 2300 hours on January 31, 389 beds remained available in 23 designated hospitals in Wuhan, the People's Daily reported on February 1.
这也再次证明了收治率一度达到了100%。
This is further proof that the admission rate once reached 100 per cent.
但从2月1日起，床位告急，收治率快速下跌。
But since February 1, beds have been in short supply and admission rates have fallen rapidly.
在2月5日这一天，收治率已经下滑到72.6%。
By 5 February, admissions had fallen to 72.6 per cent.
不过，之后得益于火神山、雷神山和一系列方舱医院的建立和改造，让床位数有了一定增长，收治率也开始走高稳定在88%左右。
However, thanks to the establishment and renovation of Mount Fire, Raytheon Mountain and a series of square-cabin hospitals, the number of beds has increased and admission rates have begun to rise and stabilize at around 88 per cent.
2月12日，由于统计标准的改变，收治率一夜回到2月初。
On 12 February, treatment admissions returned overnight to the beginning of February owing to changes in statistical standards.
这也意味着，虽然有更多病人获得确诊，但湖北仍有至少2成、近万名病人无法在医院得到有效的治疗。
It also means that while more patients have been diagnosed, at least 20 percent and nearly 10,000 patients in Hubei province still do not receive effective treatment in hospitals.
不管是偏高的重症率还是偏低的收治率，都指向一件事，医疗资源严重不足。
Both the high rate of severe illness and the low rate of admission point to one thing, and medical resources are grossly inadequate.
挑战到底有多大？湖北省目前的收治率为77.5%，但其实省内各个城市的情况有所不同。
Hubei province has a 77.5 percent admission rate, but the situation varies from city to city in the province.
在湖北省12个地级市中，我们目前只找到了黄石市、十堰市、襄阳市、孝感市、荆州市和黄冈市六个城市的相关数据。
At present, only six cities in Huangshi, Shiyan, Xiangyang, Xiaogan, Jingzhou and Huanggang have been found.
除了孝感市的收治率为98.7%，其他5个城市都达到了100%的收治率。
With the exception of filial piety, where 98.7 per cent of cases are treated, five other cities have achieved 100 per cent treatment coverage.
然而，最核心的武汉市却没有公布入院收治人数，从湖北其他城市及湖北省的收治率中，我们大致可以推断出，武汉的收治情况并不乐观。
However, the most central Wuhan city has not announced the number of admissions, from other cities in Hubei and Hubei Province, we can roughly infer that the treatment situation in Wuhan is not optimistic.
我们从床位数量和确诊人数的匹配也能看出。
We can also see from the match between the number of beds and the number of people diagnosed.
2月12日的数据显示，武汉市累计报告病例32994例，累计死亡1036例，累计治愈出院1915例，那么现阶段需要收治的病例超过3万例。
Figures from Feb. 12 show that Wuhan city has 32,994 reported cases, with a cumulative total of 1,036 deaths, and 1,915 cases have been cured.
根据武汉市卫健委的数据，我们统计了2月1日以来武汉市定点医院的开放床位数量变化。
According to Wuhan Health Commission data, we calculated the number of open beds in the designated hospital in Wuhan since February 1.
截至2月12日，武汉市定点医院用于收治新冠肺炎患者的开放床位达到14269张。
As of February 12, there were 14,269 open beds in Wuhan Dingzhi Hospital for treating patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
自2月5日以来陆续投用的11个方舱医院，目前开放了6929张床位。
Of the 11 cabin hospitals that have been in operation since 5 February, 6,929 beds are currently open.
也就是说，武汉市目前所有方舱医院和定点医院的开放床位为21198张——以此来粗略计算武汉市的收治率，结果并不让我们轻松。
In other words, Wuhan City currently has 21,198 beds in all square-cabin hospitals and designated hospitals - a crude measure of Wuhan's admission rate.
这意味着，通过修订诊断分类，帮助更多病患得到确诊，湖北省走出了加快患者及早接受规范治疗的第一步。
This means that by revising the diagnostic classification and helping more patients to be diagnosed, Hubei Province has stepped out of the first step of accelerating the early and standardized treatment of patients.
但在这之后，湖北，尤其是武汉，仍要面对医疗资源的巨大挑战。
But after this, Hubei, especially Wuhan, still has to face the huge challenge of medical resources.
尽管如此，我们最后还是要强调一下从数据变化里看到的希望——2月以来，武汉的床位数量一直在快速增长：2月1日时，武汉市定点医院开放床位数仅为6754张，现在已经是当时的2.1倍。
Nevertheless, we should like to conclude by emphasizing the hope from the data that the number of beds in Wuhan has been increasing rapidly since February: by February 1, the number of beds open at the designated hospital in Wuhan was only 6,754, now 2.1 times the number at the time.
而且，方舱医院的扩容工作还在进行中。
Furthermore, the expansion of the Fang Cavern Hospital is still ongoing.
根据人民日报报道，11家方舱医院的计划床位将达到9029张。
According to the People's Daily, 11 cabin hospitals have a planned capacity of 9,029 beds.
我们期待，在下一次关注收治率这个数字时，它已经接近100%。
We expect it to be close to 100 per cent the next time we look at the admission rate.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北数据大幅波动意味着什么？。
What does Hubei data fluctuate greatly mean?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北数据大幅波动意味着什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们尽力梳理和分析了疫情爆发以来湖北的公开信息与数据，应该可以帮助大家快速了解湖北现在的处境、接下来的挑战，以及可见的希望。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We tried to comb and analyse Hubei's public information and data since the outbreak, which should help us quickly understand Hubei's current situation, the challenges ahead, and its prospects.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
