黄冈，疫情下的床位扩张战。
Huanggang, the spread of beds under the epidemic.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
和病毒的战争，也是一场和床位有关的战争。
The war with the virus is also a war related to the bed.
1月30日，黄冈卫健委主任唐志红接受督察组询问时无法回答黄冈有多少床位这个问题，一天后被撤职。
On January 30, Huang Zhihong, director of the Wanggang Fitness Commission, was dismissed a day later after being unable to answer the question of how many beds there were in Huanggang.
那么，黄冈的床位究竟有多少？在这场争夺战中，怎么才能赢得更多的时间？文｜易方兴 郑丹编辑｜楚明孙亮的母亲可能是黄冈转院次数最多的新冠肺炎病人。
How many beds does Huang Gang have, then? How can more time be gained in this battle? less than Zheng Yuang, editor of Zheng Zheng's, Sun Liang's mother may be the most frequently transferred patient with New Crown Pneumonia.
最早是1月初，她身体不适，在黄冈中医院住院。
As early as early January, she was unwell and was hospitalized at Huanggang Chinese Hospital.
由于连续高烧，肺部出现阴影，她转院到条件稍好的黄州区人民医院的ICU病房。
She was transferred to the ICU ward of the People's Hospital in Huangzhou, where conditions were better, as a result of a continuous high fever and shadow of her lungs.
过了一周多，她被确诊为新冠肺炎，再次转院到黄冈市中心医院的ICU病房，这是整个黄冈市唯一一所三甲医院。
More than a week later, she was diagnosed with pneumonia and was transferred to the ICU ward at Huanggang Central Hospital, the only triple-A hospital in the city.
又过了一周，2月2日，她最后转院去了大别山医疗中心，那里也被称为「黄冈小汤山」，是黄冈市新开辟的确诊病人集中医疗地。
Another week later, on February 2, she was finally transferred to the Dabie Mountain Medical Center, also known as "Wanggang Xiaotangshan," a newly opened intensive care facility for confirmed patients in Huanggang.
目前，她仍未脱离危险。
She is still in danger.
不到一个月里，这个70多岁的老人转院3次，辗转过至少4张病床。
Less than a month later, the 70-year-old man was transferred three times and ran over at least four beds.
这段时间，也是黄冈确诊人数大量增长的时期，也是黄冈市床位数从「不够——扩张——再不够——再扩张」的时间。
It was also a period of significant growth in the number of diagnosed cases in Huanggang, and a time when the number of beds in Huanggang City had "not expanded - not enough - further."
床位问题是如此重要，还直接导致黄冈一名官员被免职。
The issue of beds is so important that it led directly to the dismissal of an official in Huanggang.
作为仅次于武汉的全国第二大疫区，黄冈的床位数量一度紧缺。
The number of beds in Huanggang, the country's second-most-affected region after Wuhan, was once scarce.
黄冈市政协副主席郭应虎说，1月21日之前，整个城区里都找不到一家符合条件的传染病医院，孙亮的母亲频繁转院的原因也在于此。
Guo Yinghu, vice president of the Huanggang Municipal CPPCC, said that before January 21, no one in the city could find a hospital for infectious diseases, and that was why Sun Liang's mother frequently moved to hospital.
直到「黄冈小汤山」启用后，黄冈市区开辟出来至少1818张床位。
At least 1 818 beds were opened in the Huanggang District after the opening of "Wanggang Townhill."
这一定够吗？感染者数量仍在增长。
Is that enough? The number of infected people is still growing.
2月5日，黄冈市确诊病例数量达到1645人，其中黄冈市区为527人。
On February 5, the number of confirmed cases reached 1,645 in Huanggang, including 527 in Huanggang.
和病毒的战争，也是一场和床位有关的战争。
The war with the virus is also a war related to the bed.
想打赢这场战争，床位数只能跑在病毒前面。
To win the war, the number of beds is in front of the virus.
大别山区域医疗中心病房图源黄冈新闻网没有传染病医院，没有隔离床位母亲到底是在什么时候被感染的？孙亮琢磨了很久。
There is no hospital for infectious diseases. When did the mother get infected with the disease? Sun Liang thought for a long time.
他回忆起1月13日前后，母亲已经住院了一周多，病情渐好，准备出院，正好可以一家人开心过年。
He recalled that his mother had been in hospital for more than a week, around January 13, and was getting well, ready to leave the hospital just in time for a happy New Year.
诊断书显示，母亲有高血压，出现脑梗症状。
The medical certificate showed that the mother had hypertension and cerebral infarction symptoms.
对于一个70多岁的老人来说，脑梗是常见病，他不为此特别担心。
For a 70-year-old man, cerebral infarction is common and he is not particularly worried about it.
直到病房住进来一个新病人。
Until a new patient was admitted to the ward.
病人猛烈地咳嗽、呕吐，在病房里折腾了一夜，直到第二天被转走。
The patient coughed and vomited violently and spent the night in the ward until he was transferred the next day.
1月15日，本来准备出院的母亲开始发低烧，低烧很快转为持续3天的高烧。
On 15 January, the mother, who was due to leave the hospital, began to develop a low fever, which quickly turned into a high fever lasting three days.
CT显示，母亲之前没有病症的肺部，出现了斑片状的高密度影。
The CT revealed that the mother's lungs, which had no symptoms before, had a patchy, high-density shadow.
「我后来才知道，中医院当时收的病人里就有肺炎的，只是当时包括医生在内，可能都不知道这是新冠肺炎。
"I learned later that pneumonia was among the patients admitted to the TCM hospital, although doctors, among them at the time, probably did not know it was pneumonia.
」由于母亲当时住院已近半个月，孙亮推测，母亲是在住院期间被人传染。
Since his mother had been in hospital for nearly half a month, Sun speculated that her mother had been infected while in hospital.
其中最有可能的传染源，就是那个病人。
The most likely source of infection is the patient.
母亲曾告诉孙亮，在1月15日转院之前，她所在的普通病房的医生和护士都没有什么隔离措施，更不用说病人与家属了。
Her mother had told Sun Liang that doctors and nurses in her regular ward had no segregation, let alone patients and family members, until her transfer to hospital on January 15.
在1月23日黄冈下达封城决定之前，整个城市在病毒面前几乎是毫无防备的。
Before the Huanggang decision on January 23, the city was almost defenseless against the virus.
由于没有传染病医院，新冠肺炎病人大都住在普通病房里。
Since there is no hospital for infectious diseases, most patients with Newcomial Pneumonia live in ordinary wards.
交叉感染不光出现在患者之间，也发生在医护人员之间。
Cross-infection occurs not only among patients but also among health-care workers.
如今回看，在钟南山院士宣布新冠肺炎人传人之前，黄冈市就已经发生了人传人的案例。
In retrospect, there were cases of human-to-human transmission in Huanggang before Academician Zhong Nan Shan announced the new crown pneumonia.
黄冈市中心医院的医生赵秋说，1月初，医院里来了个肺炎病人，后来病重，转院到武汉。
Zhao Qiu, a doctor at Huanggang Central Hospital, said a pneumonia patient arrived at the hospital in early January and was transferred to Wuhan.
从1月10日起，陆续开始有医护人员发病。
From January 10 onwards, medical staff began to suffer from illness.
「最开始是一名叫做董春风的护士，接着是呼吸科的医生，最后甚至连医院里收费的人员都感染上了。
"It started as a nurse named Tung Chun-feng, then a respiratory doctor, and eventually even the hospital toll takers became infected.
」赵秋提供的一份医院内部住院的名单显示，从1月10日董春风住院，到1月22日决定开设传染病医院，一共有21名医院职工因感染住院。
Zhao provided a list of hospital admissions that showed that 21 hospital staff had been hospitalized for infection from January 10 to January 22, when Dong Chunfeng was hospitalized.
「一开始我自己都不戴口罩。
"I didn't wear a mask myself at first.
直到20号左右医院里面传言已经很厉害了，我才开始天天戴口罩。
I didn't start wearing a mask every day until the rumor in the hospital around number 20 got so strong.
」董春风护士在后来《黄冈日报》的采访视频中，也承认最初对这个病并不重视。
Nurse Dong Chunfeng admitted in a video interview with the Huanggang Daily that she had paid little attention to the disease at first.
「1月7号我出现了发热、咳嗽，当时并没有重视，就当普通感冒在治疗。
"On January 7 I had a fever and a cough, which I did not take seriously at the time, just as the common cold was being treated.
」结果到了1月10日，她开始胸闷、呼吸困难，连续高烧，一度生活不能自理，才住进院。
As a result, on January 10, she began to have chest tightness, dyspnea, a high fever, and for a time was unable to look after herself before living in the hospital.
22日前，这些医护人员因为肺炎住院，在当时也很难确诊。
The doctors and nurses were hospitalized with pneumonia, which was difficult to diagnose at the time.
黄冈市政协副主席郭应虎说，1月19日之前，黄冈市无权做新冠检测；到了1月20日至22日，省下放检测权，但黄冈市里也没有检测试剂。
Huanggang, vice-president of the Huanggang municipal government, said the city had no right to a new crown test until Jan. 19.
直到1月23日之后，检测试剂陆续到位，才能开始检测。
Testing reagents were not available until after 23 January.
没法确诊、外加没有传染病医院，导致早期的黄冈医院里没有符合隔离标准的床位。
The lack of diagnosis and the absence of a hospital for infectious diseases resulted in the early Huanggang hospital not having beds that met the quarantine criteria.
医生赵秋说，「那段时间医生和患者都是一种不设防的状态。
"Doctors and patients were in an unguarded state during that time," said Zhao Qiu, a doctor.
」图源黄冈新闻网紧急开辟360个床位，很快装满从1月21日起，黄冈市连续3天的确诊病例都停留在12人。
Huanggang News opened an emergency 360-bed facility and was quickly filled with 12 cases confirmed in the city of Huanggang for three days starting January 21.
与3天不变的确诊人数形成鲜明对比的，是激增的高度疑似患者数。
In stark contrast to the three-day number of confirmed cases, the number of highly suspected patients has risen sharply.
由于当时没有能力确诊，统一叫做病毒性肺炎。
Since there was no ability to diagnose at the time, uniformity was called viral pneumonia.
多方信源显示，1月22日，黄冈病毒性肺炎患者已达300人。
According to multiple sources, the number of cases of viral pneumonia in Huanggang reached 300 on January 22.
收治在普通病房已经不行了。
The treatment is no longer available in the regular ward.
在钟南山宣布可以人传人的第二天，1月21日，黄冈市决定，用3天时间，紧急开辟3家定点医院用来隔离病人，包括传染病医院和原本是社区医院的惠民医院以及一家老年公寓。
On January 21, the day after Zhong Nan Shan was declared man-to-human, the city of Huanggang decided to urgently open three designated hospitals for the isolation of patients, including the Infectious Diseases Hospital and the Huimin Hospital, which was originally a community hospital, and an apartment for the elderly for three days.
黄冈市这才诞生了第一批有隔离意义的床位，一共360张。
The city of Huanggang was the site of the first batch of 360 secluded beds.
黄冈市中心医院内分泌科的护士刘彩接到指令，从1月22日下午3点半开始，要把目前医院里的病人陆续转院到传染病医院去。
Liu Cai, a nurse in the endocrinology department of Huanggang Central Hospital, was ordered to transfer patients from the hospital to an infectious disease hospital starting at 3: 30 pm on January 22.
时间太紧急。
Time is running out.
「那边医院都没收拾，21号才派人过去紧急打扫。
"There's no hospital there," he said. "The 21st sent someone over to clean it up.
」3天后，经过简单打扫，安装了一些设备，刘彩和呼吸科、内分泌科共约80名医护人员正式调去传染病医院。
After 3 days of simple cleaning and installation of some equipment, about 80 medical staff from the Departments of Liucai and Respiratory and Endocrinology were transferred to the Hospital for Infectious Diseases.
在那边，她看到了与普通病房完全不同的病房构造，「一个房间一个窗口，护士每天可以把药放进窗口，防止交叉感染。
There, she saw an entirely different set of wards from the general ward. "One room, one window, a nurse can put medicine in the window each day to prevent cross-infection.
」就在黄冈市开辟3家定点医院的时期，1月23日，孙亮发现，之前在病房陪护母亲的父亲，也开始高烧。
During the opening of three designated hospitals in Huanggang City, on January 23, Sun Liang discovered that his father, who had been accompanying his mother in the ward, had also had a high fever.
他带父亲去拍CT，父亲的肺部也出现了感染的迹象，呈现出「磨玻璃影」，这是新冠肺炎的典型症状之一。
He took his father to a CT scan and showed signs of infection in his father's lungs, presenting a "grinding glass shadow," one of the typical symptoms of pneumonia in the new crown.
但在那个时候，黄冈缺少检测试剂，无法确诊。
But at that time, Huanggang lack of detection reagents, can not be confirmed.
但按照黄冈市的规定，只有确诊才能住进定点医院。
But according to the city of Huanggang, only diagnosis can be admitted to the designated hospital.
孙亮经历了为期3天的替父亲找病房的难熬时间。
Sun Liang went through a three-day period to find a ward for his father.
带上发高烧的父亲，光传染病医院就跑了两次，结果连门都进不去。
With a high fever of his father, the light infectious disease hospital ran twice, so that the door can not even enter.
对方说只接受医院送来的确诊病人。
They say they accept only confirmed patients from the hospital.
然后他又只能跟父亲排了几个小时队，重新在市中心医院发热门诊看病，希望确诊。
Then he waited in line with his father for hours and went back to the hot clinic at the downtown hospital, hoping to confirm the diagnosis.
医生也没有别的办法，只能用排除法，排除了流感的可能性，然后让他回家等待。
The doctor had no choice but to remove the possibility of flu and let him wait at home.
这是24日之前，前往黄冈市发热门诊看病的患者们的共同遭遇——拍CT，然后查甲乙流感病毒，最后得到一句话，回家等消息。
This is 24 days ago, Huanggang fever clinic patients to see the common experience - take a CT, and then check A-B influenza virus, finally get a sentence, home and so on.
黄冈也在这一天封城。
Huang Gang also closed the city on that day.
24日0点起，黄冈停运公共交通，关闭城铁站、火车站，所有娱乐场所停业。
From 0 pm on the 24th, Huang Gang stopped public transport, closed the city railway station, railway station, all entertainment places closed down.
黄冈人直到这一刻才真正紧张起来。
It was not until this moment that the Huanggang people became really nervous.
这一天，全市确诊人数仍显示为12人。
On that day, the number of confirmed cases in the city remained at 12.
孙亮的父亲终于住进传染病医院是在1月25日。
Sun Liang's father was finally admitted to the infectious disease hospital on January 25.
25日上午，他接到父亲已经确诊的消息。
On the morning of the 25th he received the news that his father had been diagnosed.
由于检测权下放，加上检测试剂逐步到位，黄冈市疾控中心开始检测。
Because of the decentralization of testing rights, coupled with detection reagents gradually in place, Huanggang CDC began testing.
不过，由于整个疾控中心只有一台ABI的Q6，即便是满负荷运转，检测效率依然不高。
However, because the CDC has only one ABI Q6, even at full capacity, detection efficiency is still low.
另一个坏消息是，检测人员需要穿戴三级防护装备，但这时实验室里的三级防护装备已经用空，不得不向社会求助。
Another bad news is that the level-III protective equipment required by the tester is empty and has to be turned to the community.
不光疾控中心，缺少口罩、防护服等防护物资的，还有市内各家医院。
Not only CDC, lack of masks, protective clothing and other protective materials, but also the city's hospitals.
黄冈这座城市，在短短几天时间里，突然之间被推向一个前所未有的困难局面。
The city of Huanggang, in a matter of days, was suddenly pushed to an unprecedented difficult situation.
图源黄冈日报1818张床位，带来希望的「黄冈小汤山」床位还是不够。
The 1,818-bed Huanggang Daily brings hope that the "Wanggang Xiaotangshan" bed is still insufficient.
感染人数进一步扩大。
The number of infected persons has further increased.
随着检测能力提高，从1月25日起，黄冈确诊病例数量迅速上升，从最开始的12例，增长到1月26日的122例，10天后，达到了1645例。
With improved detection capacity, the number of confirmed cases in Huanggang rose rapidly from 12 at the beginning to 122 on 26 January and 1,645 10 days later.
留给决策者反应的时间也不多。
Decision makers are also left with little time to respond.
就在1月21日作出决定，要临时开辟三家定点医院的三天后，1月24日，黄冈市政府再次决定，紧急启动还没有完全竣工的大别山区域医疗中心，也就是黄冈版的小汤山。
Just three days after the decision of 21 January to temporarily open three designated hospitals, on 24 January, the Huanggang municipal government again decided to activate urgently the unfinished regional medical centre in Dabie Mountain, the Huanggang version of Xiaotangshan.
大别山医疗中心并不是以传染病医院为目的修建的。
The Dabie Mountain Medical Center was not built for the purpose of an infectious disease hospital.
大别山医疗中心一期投资12.6亿元，占地500亩，病床1500张，2016年开工，2017年主体结构封顶。
The Dabie Mountain Medical Center invested 1.26 billion yuan in the first phase, covering 500 mu and 1,500 beds. Construction began in 2016, capping the main structure in 2017.
原本预计，2020年5月份，把整个黄冈市中心医院搬迁过去，是一家综合性医院。
It had been expected that the entire Huanggang central hospital would be relocated to a general hospital in May 2020.
要把一家综合性医院，在3天时间里临时改造成传染病医院，难度颇高。
It is very difficult to transform a general hospital into an infectious disease hospital in three days.
从公开的照片可以看到，护士站的隔离玻璃都是临时打的玻璃胶，有的还贴上了透明胶布。
As can be seen from the open photos, the nurses stand on the isolation of the glass are makeshift glass, some are also affixed with transparent tape.
《中国新闻周刊》也报道，一开始，大别山医疗中心整体框架非常简陋，护士站、医生站与病房是相通的，也没有污染区、缓冲区的划分。
At first, the overall framework of the Dabie Mountain Medical Center was rudimentary, with nurses, doctors and wards in common, and no pollution zone or buffer zone, the China News Weekly reported.
无奈之下，只能用塑料板、木板对这些通道进行简单划分。
Helpless, can only use plastic board, plank to these passageways carry on the simple division.
但也有好消息。
But there is good news.
得知湖北的疫情后，山东、湖南一共组建了两批医疗队定点支援黄冈，有约540名医务人员。
After learning of the outbreak in Hubei Province, Shandong and Hunan set up two medical teams to support Huanggang, with about 540 medical staff.
这些医务人员均为呼吸科、内分泌科等相关科室，统一进驻大别山医疗中心。
These medical staff are respiratory department, endocrinology and other related departments, integrated into the Dabie Hill Medical Center.
有队员把这次支援行动，称之为「挺进大别山」。
Some members of the team called the support operation "Forward to Dabie Mountain."
负责协助支援医疗队熟悉本地医疗系统的，是黄冈本地的医生们。
It is the local doctors in Wong Kang who are responsible for assisting the support team in familiarizing themselves with the local medical system.
市中心医院的外科医生董虎就是其中之一。
Dong Hu, a surgeon at the downtown hospital, is one of them.
当时，由于人手不足，医院要求所有有临床经验的医生都去大别山医疗中心帮忙，而好多医生没有传染病治疗经验，刚过去连防护服都不会穿。
At the time, because of a shortage of staff, the hospital required all clinically experienced doctors to help at the Dabie Mountain Medical Center, and many doctors had no experience in infectious disease treatment and were unable to wear protective clothing.
「当时医务科调我们过去，我们这些待命的医生，没有一个说不去的，都是很积极地去那边。
"We were transferred to the Medical Section, and none of us doctors on standby, who didn't say no, went there very actively.
」董虎说。
"said Dong Hu.
大别山医疗中心下面3层作为辅助科室使用，从4层开始，收治新冠肺炎病人，4层收满了，就继续开5层。
The 3 floors below Dabie Mountain Medical Center are used as auxiliary departments. Starting from the 4th floor, patients with pneumonia are admitted to Dabie Mountain.
医院分为东西两个病区，每一层都有110到120张床位。
The hospital is divided into two disease areas, each with 110 to 120 beds.
床位数量也是逐步扩张的。
The number of beds is also gradually expanding.
这段过程中，外地来的医疗队给黄冈带来了希望。
In the process, medical teams from outside the field brought hope to Huang Gang.
医护人员在大别山区域医疗中心做准备图源黄冈新闻网「我们都是起衔接作用，帮他们了解我们电脑上的医疗系统，每个楼层培训三天，然后就交给外地来的医疗队接管。
"We all work together to help them understand the healthcare system on our computer. They train for three days on each floor and are then taken over by a medical team from the outside world.
从1月28日正式启动算起，4、5、6、7层的病区都开设完毕。
From the official start of the operation on 28 January, the 4, 5, 6 and 7 floors have been opened.
」与此同时，病人数量仍在增加。
At the same time, the number of patients is increasing.
大别山交给外地医疗队的整整4层楼，也很快装满了。
The entire four-story building handed over to the field medical team in Dabie Mountain was quickly filled.
按照集中收治的要求，黄冈此前3家定点医院的病人，被陆续转移到这里，其中就包括孙亮的母亲。
In accordance with the requirements of centralized treatment, Huanggang before the three designated hospitals, have been transferred here, including Sun Liang's mother.
「现在的问题是，外地医疗队的医生数量也不够用了，我们自己本院的医生们也要开新病区了。
"The problem is that we don't have enough doctors in the field and the doctors in our own hospital are going to open new areas," he said.
」董虎接下来，要去医院的2层和3层，开设未来的病区。
Dong Hu then went to the second and third floors of the hospital to open a future area.
黄冈的床位数量正在与病毒赛跑。
The number of beds in Huanggang is racing against the virus.
1月30日，黄冈卫健委主任唐志红接受督察组询问时无法回答黄冈有多少床位这个问题，一天后被撤职。
On January 30, Huang Zhihong, director of the Wanggang Fitness Commission, was dismissed a day later after being unable to answer the question of how many beds there were in Huanggang.
那么，黄冈市究竟有多少床位？一天后，1月31日，黄冈市召开的疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，这个问题有了准确答案。
So how many beds is there in Huanggang A day later, at a news conference in Huanggang on Jan. 31, the exact answer was given.
「黄冈市区已紧急启用了6个定点收治点和3个备用收治单位，分别是大别山医疗中心（1000张床，576间房）、市传染病医院（210张床，120间）、龙王山老年公寓（90张床，56间房）、市惠民医院（60张床，24间）、南湖老年公寓（120张床、100间）、中职培训楼（200张床、200间），备用单位还备有350间房，共计可提供床位1818张。
"The district of Huanggang has urgently opened six designated treatment points and three alternative treatment units, namely Dabie Mountain Medical Center (1,000 beds, 576 rooms), City Infectious Diseases Hospital (210 beds, 120 rooms), Huimin City Hospital (60 beds, 24 rooms), South Lake Apartment for the Elderly (120 beds, 100 rooms) and Secondary Vocational Training Building (200 beds, 200 beds).
全市已明确29家定点医院共可提供4200张床、2831间房。
A total of 4,200 beds and 2,831 rooms are available in 29 designated hospitals throughout the city.
」黄冈市政协副主席郭应虎说。
"said Guo Yinghu, vice president of the Huanggang Municipal CPPCC.
孙亮的父亲没能等到住进大别山医疗中心那一天，去世了。
Sun Liang's father did not wait until the day he was admitted to Dabie Mountain Medical Center.
悲伤之余，他盼着躺在医疗中心病床上的母亲治愈出院的那天。
Sadly, he looked forward to the day his mother, who was lying in her hospital bed, would be cured.
图源新京报我们视频（文中孙亮、赵秋、刘彩、董虎为化名）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not enough of the Beijing News video (Sun Liang, Zhao Qiu, Liu Cai, Dong Hu as an alias)? There are more wonderful stories waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄冈，疫情下的床位扩张战。
Huanggang, the spread of beds under the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "黄冈，疫情下的床位扩张战";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Huang Gang, beds expansion at & quot; & quot; with the outbreak.
var msg_desc = "想打赢这场战争，床位数只能跑在病毒前面。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
