援助武汉周边地区的志愿者们。
Assist volunteers in the surrounding area of Wuhan.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
医院人员领取志愿者送的医疗物资。
Hospital personnel receive medical supplies from volunteers.
受访者供图文|李晓芳编辑|胡大旗新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩大后，湖北省内的医院医疗物资告急。
Hospital medical supplies in Hubei province are in urgent need of help as the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak at Hu Dazhang has expanded.
从1月23日开始，很多医院自行发布物资募捐公告。
Since January 23, many hospitals have issued their own fund-raising notices.
几乎同一时间，各种民间力量行动起来，捐钱、义务募集物资、贡献物流渠道，将口罩、防护服、护目镜、医用酒精等急缺的物资输送到医院。
At about the same time, various non-governmental forces began to donate money, voluntarily collect materials, contribute logistics channels, and transport urgently needed materials such as masks, protective clothing, goggles and medical alcohol to hospitals.
一些民间志愿者留意到，武汉周边地区同样形势严峻，防止出现“灯下黑”的情况，他们集中为黄冈、荆州、孝感等城市，乃至医疗资源更贫瘠的县、乡镇一级医疗单位输送物资。
Some non-governmental volunteers noticed that the situation around Wuhan is also serious, preventing the "black lights" situation, they concentrated in Huanggang, Jingzhou, filial piety, and even more barren medical resources in counties, township-level medical units.
作为官方力量的有益补充，在疫情扩大、医院物资急缺的时间段，志愿者的工作对一些医疗机构起到了救急的作用。
As a useful complement to the official force, the work of volunteers has helped to rescue some medical institutions during a period of expanding epidemics and acute shortages of hospital supplies.
他们也很清楚，“光靠我们这些民间力量，很难填补医院的物资缺口”，即使到现在，一线医院物资仍然存在庞大缺口。
They also know that "it is difficult for us, the civil forces alone, to fill the material gap in hospitals." Even now, there is a huge gap in supplies for first-line hospitals.
以下是三位志愿者的口述：1_熊某人，“燃灯计划”志愿者组织「我以为他在说段子，过了几秒反应过来，根本不是段子」“燃灯计划”志愿者组织最早算是由一个叫“吾意清流”的妹子弄起来的，她是一名编剧，家里有一间工厂。
The following is the dictation of three volunteers: 1 _ Bear, a volunteer organization of the Lighting Program. "I thought he was talking, but after a few seconds, it wasn't even a paragraph.
1月23号武汉“封城”那天，她发了一条朋友圈，工厂还有60万只口罩，她舅舅说这种财不能发，打算全部捐赠给荆州政府。
On January 23, the day Wuhan was closed, she sent out a circle of friends, the factory still has 600,000 masks, her uncle said this money can not be issued, intends to donate all to the Jingzhou government.
从这批口罩开始，他们弄了个小团队运输物资，加入的志愿者越来越多，现在群里的志愿者大约有200多个。
Starting with the masks, they set up a small team to transport supplies, joined more and more volunteers, and now there are about 200 volunteers in the group.
我在1月27号左右加入，主要负责物资的对接和配送工作。
I joined on or about January 27th and was mainly responsible for the docking and distribution of materials.
“燃灯计划”早期的发起人都来自荆州、黄冈等武汉周边城市，他们在对接医院的时候，发现武汉之外的情况非常差，为了防止这些城市陷入“灯下黑”的境地，就想着给武汉周边地区输送一些医疗物资。
When docking the hospitals, the early promoters of the lighting scheme, all from Wuhan-surrounding cities such as Jingzhou and Huanggang, found that the situation outside Wuhan was very bad.
我这边建了16个地、市微信群（注：16个地、市，是指神农架林区外，剩余的湖北省12个地级市、1个自治州、3个省直辖县级市），把湖北省分成了16个组。
The remaining 12 prefectures and autonomous prefectures and 3 prefectural-level cities in Hubei Province, in addition to the Shennongshan forest area, have been built here, dividing Hubei Province into 16 groups.
每个组有组长，组长就在各个地方，根据城市的大小，还有他们的人脉情况，把自己的团队给拉起来，比如现在黄冈组有40多个志愿者，最小的潜江组现在只有一个人。
Each group has a team leader, who is based in each place and pulls up his team according to the size of the city and their contacts. For example, there are now more than 40 volunteers in the Huanggang group, and the smallest submerged river group now has only one person.
每个小组的志愿者会对接到更下一级的县、乡镇的医院和卫生所，到目前为止，我们一共对接了727所医疗单位，名单还一直在涨。
So far, we have docked a total of 727 units, and the list has been on the rise.
现在湖北省的交通都是受到管制的，不要说出城了，出小区都是非常困难的一件事情。
Now the traffic in Hubei Province is regulated, do not say the city, out of the district is a very difficult thing.
把这些医疗物资配送到更下一级的医院，通过快递是完全不可能了，我们现在的解决办法，是在湖北省内建了6个分仓，后续会建到8个左右，1个分仓覆盖1到2个地方，这些分仓就可以接受外省的物资直接进省内，再由当地的组长协调人手去仓库把物资拉出来进行分发。
The solution is to build six sub-warehouses in Hubei province, with one sub-warehouse covering one to two places. These sub-warehouses can receive supplies from the provinces directly into the province, where the local team leader will coordinate the delivery of materials to the warehouse.
有些时候，我们会找志愿者车队，或者是蓝天救援队，找当地的红十字会或疾控办开证明，自己开车去仓库里拖货。
Sometimes we find volunteer convoys, or blue sky rescue teams, get a certificate from the local Red Cross or the Office of Disease Control and drive to the warehouse to tow the goods.
有一次，为了运送14000只口罩到某市，我们找到了疾控办，疾控办再找到当地武警，用警车去拉的货。
On one occasion, to transport 14,000 face masks to a city, we found the disease control office, the disease control office found the local armed police, using police vehicles to pull the goods.
拖回来以后，组长会根据前期确认的医院情况，判断哪些医院更缺医疗物资，再根据物资数量分配。
After towing back, the group leader will judge which hospitals are more short of medical supplies according to the hospital situation confirmed in the previous period, and then distribute them according to the quantity of materials.
直接送到医院，就不经过其他组织了。
Get directly to the hospital, and you're not going through any other organization.
现在管控越来越严格。
Controls are becoming more stringent.
外地的车不愿意来湖北，因为来一趟，司机回去之后要隔离14天，相当于这14天没有任何收入，是很大的损失。
Non-local vehicles do not want to come to Hubei, because a visit, the driver to return to quarantine for 14 days, equivalent to 14 days without any income, is a great loss.
就算你想来，也需要花很大功夫去办通行证。
Even if you want to come, it takes a lot of effort to get a pass.
我们前几天筹集到了一车医用酒精，要送到某地级市，发货地在山东。
A few days ago we raised a load of medical alcohol, to be sent to a certain city, the place of shipment in Shandong.
酒精属于易燃易爆物品，我们找到了湖北当地一个志愿者，他是一家化工园的老板，有存放易燃易爆物品的仓库，还找了运送易燃易爆物品的拖车，然后去请示当地的书记，批了一堆放行条，甚至还去省里请示，最后才从湖北发了一辆空车，用警车护送，开了一千多公里去拉回来。
We found a local volunteer in Hubei, the owner of a chemical park, a warehouse where inflammable and explosive substances were stored, and a trailer for inflammable and explosive substances. He then went to the local secretary, approved a bunch of release slips and even asked for instructions from the province.
运输途中，一批医疗物资在每个关卡都有可能被各个地方政府统筹掉。
In transit, a number of medical supplies may be co-ordinated by local governments at each level.
现在每个地区真的是特别难，我做志愿者工作也就短短4、5天时间，已经有很多政府官员来问我有没有相应的物资。
It's really hard in every region right now, and in just four or five days as a volunteer, there have been a lot of government officials asking me if I have the right supplies.
放在以前，他们这些级别的官员，我根本不可能接触到。
In the past, I would never have been able to reach these ranks of their officers.
他们的红十字会实在筹集不到医疗物资了，就把我们的物资截留过去，进行分发，也算是完成了我们的志愿者工作。
Their Red Cross, unable to raise any more medical supplies, took our supplies over and distributed them, and did our volunteer work.
现在一线医院最缺的就是口罩、防护服和医用酒精。
The biggest shortages in first-line hospitals are masks, protective clothing and medical alcohol.
有一次，我们配送9000只一次性医用口罩到恩施州，9000只口罩其实非常少，只有9箱，一箱20盒。
Once, when we distributed 9,000 disposable medical masks to Enshi state, 9,000 masks were actually very rare, only 9 boxes, 20 boxes.
恩施州的志愿小组硬生生拆分出来派给下面8个县市20多家医疗单位。
Enshi state volunteer groups were forcibly split up and sent to more than 20 medical units in the eight counties and municipalities below.
恩施那边到处山，我们靠本地车队给县一级医院和更小的卫生院送口罩，完全就是地狱模式。
There are mountains around Enshi, and we rely on local convoys to deliver masks to county-level hospitals and smaller health centers, which is hell-like.
比如车主就送5个口罩到山里的卫生院，加起来才5块钱，油钱都远不止这个数，但没办法，你还得送，不送的话，人家就没有物资可以用了。
For example, the owner of the vehicle sent five masks to the health center in the mountains, the sum of five dollars, oil money is far more than that, but there is no way, you have to deliver, or else people have no supplies to use.
我们还碰到过恩施下面一个乡的卫生院医生，他走路到县里，拿了5个一次性医用口罩。
We also met the doctor of a township below Enshi, who walked to the county with five disposable medical masks.
他还主动跟县里说，县里的医院比较急，你们先用。
He also took the initiative to tell the county that the county hospital is more urgent, you use first.
也不用给我们送，我们自己来拿，给我们留5个口罩就行。
You don't have to deliver it to us. Let's get it ourselves. Just leave us five masks.
物资就这么缺。
We're short of supplies.
前几天，有一个黄冈的医生，晚上10点多了，在微信群说，他明天就要开始每天连续12个小时发热门诊的值班工作，他有一套防护服，就一套，接下来如果没有新物资补充，就一直用这套防护服了。
A few days ago, there was a doctor in Huanggang who said he would start his 12-hour daily shift at the fever clinic tomorrow. He had a suit of protective clothing.
他还没有防护口罩，女同事给了他一张卫生巾，可以放在普通口罩里面用。
He did not have a face mask, and female colleagues gave him a sanitary towel that he could use inside a mask.
我一开始以为他在说段子，过了几秒反应过来，根本就不是段子。
At first I thought he was talking, but after a few seconds, it wasn't a paragraph.
我已经很久没有听人跟我说过物流配送费用是多少，湖北省内所有跟我们合作的组织，没有人再谈钱，大家都在贴钱、贴时间去搞这个事情。
I haven't heard from anyone for a long time about the cost of logistics distribution. No one in Hubei province talks about money anymore.
但说实话，我们很清楚，所做的事情杯水车薪，只是尽可能地去做一点事情。
But to be honest, we know very well that what we do is only a fraction of what we do, and we do what we can.
2_胡海流，26岁，“口罩下乡”志愿小组「“光靠我们这些民间力量，很难填补医院的物资缺口”」我是湖北黄冈人，家里就是重灾区，大家的注意力都在武汉，所以想到其他地方肯定会缺物资。
I am from Huanggang, Hubei Province. I am from Huanggang, and my family is the hardest hit area, so I think there will be a shortage of materials in other places.
我没什么资源，跟朋友说了我的想法，他又找他的朋友，一起找可以给武汉周边地区提供物资的组织，最后成功对接了一批医疗物资到我们县里。
I have no resources, told my friends my idea, he found his friends, together with the organizations that can provide supplies to the surrounding areas of Wuhan, finally docked a batch of medical supplies to our county.
我们不是做完这件事就完了，还希望把这个志愿者项目进行下去，取了个名字，叫“口罩下乡”。
We do not finish this thing is finished, but also hope to continue this volunteer project, took a name, called "Mask to the countryside."
我一开始是对接医院，家乡有些同学在医院工作，可以了解前线医院的一些情况，把他们的需求在微信群里提出来，再去找可以提供物资的组织。
I started by docking the hospital. Some of my hometown students worked in the hospital. They could learn about the front-line hospitals, put their needs forward in the micro-mail group, and then look for organizations that could provide supplies.
后面物资太繁杂了，各种各样的商品，所以我又接手了另一项工作，鉴别确认这些物资是不是符合医疗标准。
There was a lot of stuff behind, all sorts of goods, so I took over another job, checking to see if it met the medical standards.
口罩是非常紧缺的物资。
Masks are very scarce supplies.
国内很多厂家都被统一调配了，不会再卖口罩给民间志愿组织。
Many domestic manufacturers have been unified deployment, will no longer sell masks to non-governmental voluntary organizations.
剩余的一些厂家，质量没办法保证，我们就决定不买。
Some of the remaining manufacturers, quality can not guarantee, we decided not to buy.
海外的各种各样的口罩都有，大部分是不匹配国内标准的，但很多医院也会接收，因为还有很多二线医护人员也需要口罩，他们不直接接触患者，普通N95口罩就可以使用，或者是按欧洲标准，符合FFP2类别的口罩也可以。
There are a wide range of masks available overseas, most of which do not match domestic standards, but many hospitals also accept them because there are also many second-line staff who need masks, who do not come into direct contact with the patients. Ordinary N95 masks can be used, or FFP2-type masks can be used by European standards.
一线医护人员需要使用N95医用口罩，才能在手术过程中保护医生，防止血液等液体飞溅到口罩上，继而发生渗透。
First-line medical staff need to use the N95 mask to protect doctors during surgery, prevent blood and other liquids from spilling onto the mask, and then infiltration.
但所有捐赠口罩都要符合这个标准太难了，全国的医院几乎都需要，很难买到。
But all donations of face masks are too difficult to meet. Hospitals across the country need them and are hard to get.
很多县里医院的医生，就像你们在网上看到的那样，戴一层普通N95口罩，外面再套一层透明的塑料壳子来阻隔飞溅的液体或飞沫。
Doctors at many county hospitals, as you can see on the Internet, wear an ordinary N95 mask and a transparent plastic shell on the outside to block out splashing liquids or droplets.
防护服和试剂盒也非常紧缺。
Protective clothing and kits are also in short supply.
县、镇一级的医院有很多发热病人，但没有试剂盒，医生没办法给他们确诊。
Hospitals at the county and township levels have many febrile patients, but there are no kits, doctors can not give them a diagnosis.
防护这块，很多医生基本没什么防护可言，比如我同学所在的医院，他们可能就只有一个口罩，戴着口罩就去进行治疗了，防护服、护目镜统统没有。
Many doctors, such as my classmate's hospital, may be treated with a mask and a mask. There are no protective clothing or goggles.
志愿者清点护目镜数量。
Volunteers counted the number of glasses.
受访者供图我们也出现过问题，在仙桃买医疗物资时，没有志愿者在本地，一个商家主动说给我们介绍其他厂家，后来发现他暗中拿了提成，一件隔离衣33元，他卖给我们就变成了36元。
The interviewee told us that we also had a problem. There were no volunteers here when the peach bought some medical supplies. A businessman offered to introduce us to other manufacturers.
但我一开始也没想通过红十字会这些组织去捐赠物资，效率很难保证。
But I didn't start by thinking of donating supplies through Red Cross organizations. It was difficult to guarantee efficiency.
像我们这样直接和医院对接，尤其是联系好医疗物资，让医院自己去厂家那里提货，基本一天就能完成整个流程。
As we so directly and hospital docking, especially good contact with medical supplies, let the hospital to the factory to pick up the goods, basic one day can complete the entire process.
稍微近一点的，可能花半天时间，物资就能直接到医院了。
A little bit closer, maybe half a day, and the supplies can go straight to the hospital.
现在物资有缓解吗？我看到的情况是并没有。
Is there any relief now? I see that it is not.
很多医疗用品是一次性的，它是不断消耗的，送过去的物资就只能维持一周，或者只能维持两三天的样子。
Many medical supplies are one-off items that are consumed over time, leaving only a week or two or three days of deliveries.
光靠我们这些民间力量，很难填补医院的物资缺口。
It is difficult for us folk forces alone to fill the material gap in hospitals.
3_二师兄，25岁，“口罩下乡”志愿小组「想到以前在武汉的日子，会很心痛，这座城市怎么变成这个样子了？」我从1月中旬就开始关注疫情信息，知道要买口罩，狂洗手，一直在刷新闻，特别焦虑。
Brother 3 _ 2, 25, Mask Down to the Countryside Volunteer Group, "How did this city get this way when I thought about my old days in Wuhan?" I started to pay attention to the epidemic in mid-January, knew to buy masks, washed my hands, had been painting the news, and was particularly anxious.
我加了一个打卡群，说在疫情期间，持续正常的生活，但我到第三天就没有打卡了，被踢出群。
I added a punch card group, saying that during the outbreak, the normal life, but I did not card the third day, was kicked out of the group.
还加了一个读书群，计划在疫情期间坚持读书，结果一本没读。
A reading group was added to plan to stay in school during the outbreak and none of them was read.
现在我打算开始读一点，看到很多人在看加缪的《鼠疫》，都说书里写的好像就是现在的情况，所以我也有点好奇。
Now I'm going to start reading a bit and see a lot of people watching Camus' Plague, which says it looks as if it's what it is today, so I'm a little curious.
焦虑情绪最严重的时候是除夕那晚，春晚还在照常进行，但网上铺天盖地全是求助信息，那一晚让我觉得特别魔幻。
Anxiety was most acute on New Year's Eve, and the Spring Festival Gala was still going on, but the internet was full of help messages, and that night made me feel special.
大年初一那天，我们在微信群里聊，公益机构可以在这次疫情中做什么。
On the first day of the New Year, we talked in a small group of micro-letter, public welfare organizations can do in this epidemic.
我说我有一个朋友正在做网络募捐筹款的跟踪。
I said I had a friend who was tracking fundraising for the online fundraiser.
群里一个朋友就私信我，他是黄冈蕲春县人，一直很关注湖北的疫情，之前看到家乡的医院发了筹集物资的公告，就来问我募捐是怎么做的，可不可以给他家乡的医院捐物资？我们又拉了几个朋友，组成一个6人小组。
However, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon has been following the outbreak in Hubei province, and has come to ask me how the fund-raising is being carried out and if we can donate anything to the hospital in his hometown.
当天傍晚，就对接到了武汉大学校友会的物资，确认可以给到县、镇的医院，第二天他们就发快递了。
That evening, received the Wuhan University Alumni Association supplies, confirmed to the county, town hospital, the next day they sent express.
这是我们做的第一个对接。
This is our first docking.
开始做志愿者组织后，反而没有那么焦虑了，因为还算在行动，在做一些事情，可以分散注意力，不然会一直看着新闻停不下来。
After starting out as a volunteer organization, you're less anxious because you're still on the move, doing something that distracts you, or you'll be watching the news stop.
有了第一次，组里一个朋友就说要不要再多做几个。
For the first time, a friend in the group asked if he wanted to do more.
当时我们预估自己的能力，计划是给10家医院对接运送物资就差不多了，到现在，真正对接的是14家医院。
At the time, we estimated our capabilities, and the plan was to dock the supplies for 10 hospitals. So far, 14 hospitals have actually docked.
考虑到县、乡镇本身就缺资源，而且物资一层层地从省到市，要经过比较长的时间才发放到他们手上，我们一开始的定位就是主要支持湖北省内县、乡镇一级的医院。
Considering that counties and townships themselves lack resources and that it takes a long time for supplies to reach them from the provinces to the municipalities, our initial orientation was mainly to support hospitals at the county and township levels in Hubei Province.
我们也没有经验，刚开始把医院、物资方，志愿者都拉到一个群里，流程非常乱，物资方可能会一下给所有医院群发消息，问他们需不需要物资。
We also have no experience, just began to pull the hospital, supplies, volunteers into a group, the process is very chaotic, the material side may send a message to all the hospitals, ask them whether they need supplies or not.
每家医院的需求又不太一样，就有点懵。
The demand of each hospital is not quite the same, just a little muddle.
后来慢慢调整流程，我们先去找发了募捐公告的医院，打电话核实相关情况，确认了需求，再去找相应的物资对接，跟医院确认物资合不合适，能不能用，再确认数量，然后在物资方下单，跟物流，到了以后找医院开接收单，包括让他们拍反馈图，做公示总结。
Then slowly adjust the process, we went to the hospital that issued the announcement, telephone to verify the relevant situation, confirm the need, and then find the appropriate material docking, can be used, confirmed the quantity, then ordered in the material side, logistics, and then to the hospital to open a receipt, including their feedback map, do a summary of the public.
一切都是自己摸索出来的。
Everything came out of my own hands.
我们最后一次筹资购买防护服，花了差不多12个小时，募捐到了6、7万。
The last time we raised money for protective clothing, it took us almost 12 hours to raise money for sixty or seventy thousand dollars.
那天非常紧张，因为要筹钱，还要确认这笔钱是不是能用到位。
That day was very tense, because to raise money, but also to make sure that the money can be used.
我们那天一直到很晚才能睡，联系好了厂家订了防护服，但老板一直不收我们的钱，就很担心会被骗。
We didn't go to bed until late that day. We contacted the manufacturer and ordered the protective clothing. But the boss didn't charge us any money, so he was worried about being cheated.
结果第二天，他真的就跳票了，医院的人已经到厂家打算提货了，结果老板说不发货。
As a result, the next day, he really jumped tickets, the hospital people have been to the factory to pick up the goods, the boss said not to deliver.
当时负责对接的志愿者特别着急，又联系了另外一个厂家，最后紧急带着医院的人跑了四个厂家，在湖北仙桃分批采购齐了需要的防护服。
At that time, the volunteers in charge of docking were very anxious, and then contacted another factory. Finally, the people with the hospital ran to four factories and purchased the necessary protective clothing in batches in Xiantao, Hubei Province.
那天所有事情弄完了，负责的志愿者特别感慨，跟我说她觉得今天很厉害，控制了4个车队，去了4个厂家，采购了4500套防护服，这些防护服又一一分发到了8个不同的县市乡镇。
When all was finished that day, the volunteer in charge lamented that she felt very strong today, took control of four convoys, visited four factories and procured 4,500 protective suits, which were then distributed to eight different counties and municipalities.
其中有一个通山县的医生犹豫了很久，在想要不要开车过去仙桃取防护服。
One of them, a doctor in Tongshan County, hesitated for a long time to decide whether to drive past the peach to get a protective suit.
他们很缺物资，但一次来回好几个小时，大半天就没了，还需要费很多功夫开通行证，医生还担心去了也不一定能拿到防护服，说不定会在中途被截留。
They are short of supplies, but they return for hours at a time, lose most of the day, require a lot of effort to issue permits, and doctors fear that if they do, they may not be able to get protective clothing and may be intercepted en route.
志愿者跟医生聊了三个多小时，才让医生有信心去仙桃试一试。
The volunteer chatted with the doctor for more than three hours before giving the doctor the confidence to try the peach.
车辆通行证。
Vehicle passes.
受访者供图最后医生顺利拿到了防护服，也都能用得上。
At the end of the chart, the doctor was able to get the protective clothing and use it.
我们都很感慨，对接的志愿者说，“眼泪唰的一下（掉下来）。
We were all very moved, said the docking volunteer, "Shua tears.
”我们当时还约定，等疫情过去，要一起去通山县喝酒。
"We also agreed that when the outbreak was over, we would go to Tonshan County to drink.
我是四川人，在武汉理工大学待了四年，毕业后去了广州。
I am from Sichuan. I stayed in Wuhan Technical University for four years. After graduation, I went to Guangzhou.
我在武汉的时候天天吐槽，说它又脏，空气又差，每天都要戴口罩出门。
I spit every day when I was in Wuhan, saying that it was dirty and bad air, every day to wear a mask to go out.
但我对武汉挺怀念也挺喜欢的，那个时候我们一起做校园团队，写学校里的新闻，你会觉得记录还是有一些力量和作用的。
But I miss Wuhan quite also like it, when we do the campus team together, write the news in the school, you will feel that the record has some power and function.
想到以前留下的经历，去过的地方，自己的学校，现在可能全部都空了，或者是处于很混乱很绝望的状态，还是会很心痛，觉得这座城市怎么变成这个样子了？等做完最后的账目审计和公示，我们小组的工作也差不多要宣告结束了。
Think of the experiences we left behind, the places we visited, the schools we have attended, all of them may now be empty, or in a state of confusion and despair, or heartache as to how the city has become like this? By the time the final audit of accounts and announcements have been made, the work of our group is almost over.
很现实的原因：我们都有工作，有两个没有工作的人要找工作，精力确实有限。
Realistically, we all have jobs, and there are two jobless people who do have limited energy to find a job.
现在也逐渐有政府的支持和物资过来了。
And now government support and supplies are coming.
等疫情过去之后，和团队朋友去通山县喝酒是我一定要做的，不知道为啥，感觉是一个句号或者是一个纪念吧。
After the epidemic, and a team of friends to drink in Tongshan County is I must do, do not know why, feeling is a period or a memorial bar.
（应受访者要求，文中人物为化名）后台回复“读者群”，加入更多讨论作者简介李晓芳总幻想一夜暴富。
In response to the interviewee's request, the persona is a pseudonym.) backstage reply to the readers group, add more discussion writer profile Li Xiaofang always fantasizes about getting rich overnight.
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
援助武汉周边地区的志愿者们。
Assist volunteers in the surrounding area of Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "援助武汉周边地区的志愿者们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "\x26quot;只是尽可能地去做一点事情\x26quot;";。
var msg _ desc = & quot;\ x 26quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
