四天四夜，湖北司机高速漂流记。
Four days and four nights, Hubei driver high-speed drift.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
文| 陈怡含编辑| 林鹏元宵节的下午，50岁的货车司机肖红兵终于住进了汉中北服务区一个设施齐全的房间，洗上了20多天来的第一个热水澡。
At last, on the afternoon of last night's Lantern Festival, Xiao Hongbing, a 50-year-old lorry driver, took his first hot bath in more than 20 days in a fully equipped room at Hanzhong North Service.
肖红兵是湖北天门人，整个春节，他几乎没有离开过那辆鄂M3B350。
Xiao Hongbing was from Tianmen, Hubei Province, and he hardly left the E-E M3B 350 during the Spring Festival.
一桩临时的生意推迟了他原本在除夕前归家的计划，而扩大的疫情让1月初就离开湖北的他彻底困在了路上。
A temporary business deal delayed his plans to return home before New Year's Eve, and the outbreak left him stranded in early January after leaving Hubei.
挂着醒目的“鄂”字的红色江淮卡车原本是他的“兄弟”，他常赞美它，“兄弟，最辛苦的就是你，拖多少、跑多远也不吱声”。
The red Jianghuai truck with the bold "E" word was originally his "brother" and he often praised it. "Brother, the hardest thing is you, how much you drag, how far you run silent."
这个春节，“兄弟”除了帮他挣钱，还成了疫情进展的晴雨表。
This Spring Festival, "brothers" in addition to helping him earn money, but also become a barometer of the progress of the epidemic.
起初，面馆的老板娘相信他，大年三十卖给他一碗四川臊子面；后来，他去买鞋子，59块钱的鞋，不等他开口，“30块钱卖给你”，要求是：付款码打开，往后站两三米，老板再扫码；再后来，村民开始报警，他不断被拦截，甚至不得不开上山间的悬崖。
Later, he went to buy shoes, 59 yuan of shoes, without him, "30 yuan to sell you", asked: payment code opened, stand two or three meters back, the boss sweeps again; then villagers began to alarm the police, he was repeatedly intercepted, even had to drive up the cliff between the mountains.
最糟糕的时候，当每个人都告诉他，“哪儿来的车回哪儿去”，他却握着手机完全不知道该导航去哪里——高速救助电话说，回家吧，现在疫情比较严重。
At its worst, when everyone told him, "Where did the car come from?" he held his cell phone and didn't know where to navigate.
家乡湖北天门的110说，路都封了，等疫情解除了再回来。
110 in his hometown of Tianmen, Hubei, said the road was closed until the outbreak was resolved.
他理解政策，很不想给别人添麻烦，只好漫无目的往前开。
He understood the policy, did not want to cause trouble to others, had to drive aimlessly.
如今，他在离家900多公里的地方，等待疫情的解除。
He is now more than 900 kilometers away from home, waiting for the outbreak to be resolved.
他最大的愿望是能在春耕时节回到家乡，开上那辆红色的江淮，运送种子、化肥，还有上一季收获的小麦和油菜。
His greatest wish was to return home in the spring, drive that red Jianghuai, and deliver seeds, fertilizer, and wheat and canola from the previous season.
以下是肖红兵的口述：流浪的除夕夜去年年末，12月27、28号的样子，我就离开家了。
The following is Xiao Hongbing's dictation: The New Year's Eve of vagrancy, December 27, 28 appearance, I left home.
最初在离家三四百公里的地方拉货，1月7号从湖北荆州出来，先后去了义乌、贵阳、湘潭、深圳等地，腊月二十六七号到了福州。
Originally three or four hundred kilometers away from home, January 7 out of Jingzhou, Hubei, to Yiwu, Guiyang, Xiangtan, Shenzhen and other places, Lai Yun 27 to Fuzhou.
原本计划把货送到福州就回家过年，离开前来了个急活，要运一批美食节的展览品，临近年关，跑在路上的车比较少，货主说多给点钱，让我把货拉到四川。
Originally planned to send the goods to Fuzhou on the New Year, leaving a rush, to transport a number of gourmet festival exhibits, near the New Year, running on the road less, cargo owners said to give more money, let me pull the goods to Sichuan.
原本这一单是2000块钱，他又加了200。
The original bill was 2,000 yuan and he added 200 more.
我想，咱们跑车也是为了多挣点钱，就同意了。
I think we agreed to the sports car in order to make more money.
家里本来就不富裕，我儿子今年要考初中，也需要钱。
My son will need money to take the middle school exam this year.
我就给老婆打电话，说春节没法回家了。
I called my wife and said I couldn't go home for the Spring Festival.
去年10月，我买了这辆二手货车。
I bought this used car last October.
一开始没想着拉长途，就接一两百公里内的单子，当天打个来回。
At first I didn't want to pull the long distance, then one or two hundred kilometers inside the list, that day back and forth.
跑了一个多月，发现天门这个地方货源有限，有时待了几天都拉不到活。
Run for more than a month, found that Tianmen this place is limited supply of goods, sometimes stay for several days can not pull live.
后来我想了想，还是跑长途吧。
Then I thought to myself, I'd better run long distance.
刚开始老婆和我一起跑，车里空间小，后排只能躺一个人，另一个人要坐在副驾驶上睡觉。
At first my wife and I ran together, the car space is small, the back row can only lie alone, another person will sit on the copilot to sleep.
每天连轴转，车上又颠簸得厉害。
The car jolted hard every day as it spun round and round.
跑了一个月，看她实在辛苦，就不让她跟着了。
Run for a month, see her really hard, do not let her follow.
跑四川这趟，出发前，货主送了我三样东西——两瓶红牛、一副手套，还有二三十个一次性口罩。
Before going on this trip to Sichuan, the owner gave me three things - two red oxen, a pair of gloves, and twenty or thirty disposable masks.
他说：“你用得着。
"You need it," he said.
”我想，手套肯定用得着，开夜车的，红牛也用得着，就是这口罩不知道怎么用得着。
I think gloves will be needed, an all-nighter, and a red bull, if you don't know how to use it.
当时我完全不知道疫情的事，也没多问。
I didn't know anything about the outbreak, and I didn't ask much about it.
我从福州出发，经过江西、湖南到达四川。
I set out from Fuzhou and arrived in Sichuan via Jiangxi and Hunan.
一路上车很少，我想着过年嘛，车少也是正常的，没往别的地方想。
On the way there are few cars, I think of the New Year, fewer cars are normal, no other way to think.
直到除夕下午到了四川开江，我在高速出口准备交费时，才发现不对劲。
When I arrived in Kaijiang, Sichuan Province on New Year's Eve afternoon, I was preparing to pay for the high-speed exits when I realized something was amiss.
交费窗口往前五六十米的地方有检查站，好多警察穿着蓝色的、带帽子的防护服，对着我的车指指点点。
There were checkpoints fifty or sixty metres ahead of the toll window, and a lot of policemen in blue, cap-and-mortar suits pointed at my car.
之前我一直没戴口罩，到了检查站，看到大家都戴着口罩，我也顺手拿了一个戴上。
I had not been wearing a mask before. I went to the checkpoint and saw that everyone was wearing a mask.
警察给我测体温、消毒，拿我的身份证登记信息。
The police took my temperature, disinfected me, and took my ID card to register.
我问他们什么情况，他们说现在新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩大，全国都在防控，源头是我们湖北，我才知道这个情况。
I asked them what the situation was. They said the new coronavirus pneumonia is spreading and the whole country is controlling it.
这段时间的高速收费票据我都保留着，证明我近期没有到过湖北，体温也正常，36.3℃，他们就放行了，提醒我卸完货后尽快离开。
I kept all the high-speed billings, proving that I hadn't been to Hubei recently and my temperature was normal. They let me off at 36.3 ℃, reminding me to leave as soon as possible after unloading.
卸货的时候，陆陆续续来了七八个老百姓，聚集在车前二三十米的地方。
At the time of unloading, seven or eight people trickled in, gathering twenty or thirty metres in front of the vehicle.
不一会儿来了两个警察，我把情况又说了一遍，票据和证件又拿出来，这才没事。
Two policemen came in a moment later, and I told them again, the papers and papers were out again, and that was all right.
卸了货之后，我去了一个小面馆。
After unloading, I went to a small noodle shop.
老板娘说：“刚才警察拦的是你的车吧？”我想，怎么传得这么快？弄得我跟瘟神一样。
"The police stopped your car, didn't they?" she said. "I thought," how did it spread so quickly? I was like Misery. "
好在她人很好，知道我半个月没回湖北，就说：“我不怕，这面我卖给你吃。
Fortunately, she is very good, know that I did not return to Hubei half a month, said: "I am not afraid, I sell you this side to eat.
”我吃了一碗最普通的四川的臊子面，就算是年夜饭了。
"I ate a bowl of the most common pungent son noodles from Sichuan, even if it was Chinese New Year's Eve meal.
后来我去买东西，对方听到我的口音就有点警惕，他们说相信我，但看到湖北人还是有点怕，让我站远一点。
Later I went shopping, the other side heard my accent on a bit alert, they said they believe me, but see Hubei people or a little afraid, let me stand away.
我看中一双原价59块钱的鞋子，想着讲一讲价，他们直接说，30块钱卖给你算了。
I liked a pair of shoes that cost fifty-nine dollars, and, thinking of bargaining, they said, 'I'll give you thirty dollars.
本来我还想试一下，后来想想算了，不给他们添麻烦。
I wanted to try it, and then I thought about it, so I wouldn't bother them.
付钱的时候，他们让我把付款码打开，往后站两三米，他们再扫码。
When they paid, they told me to open the payment code and stand two or three meters back, and they scraped it again.
回到车上，我想休息一会，两个五十多岁的男性推着三轮车过来，一前一后把我的车拦住了。
Back in the car, I wanted to take a break. Two men in their fifties came by on a tricycle and stopped my car one way and the other.
一个人拿着手机拍照，还有一个在打电话。
One man was taking a picture with a cell phone and another was on the phone.
后来他们走过来说：“我们已经报警了，你赶快走。
"Then they came over and said," We've already called the police.
”我已经知道了大概的情况，也理解他们的心情，就把车开走了。
I knew the general situation, I understood their feelings, and drove off.
我想，还是上高速吧。
Let's get on the highway, I think.
之前警察就跟我说，卸了货以后不要停留：“你在我们这里是安全的，但是到了别的地方，有些老百姓可能比较急躁。
Before the police told me not to stop after unloading: "You are safe with us, but somewhere else, some people may be impatient.
”他们嘱咐我尽量走高速，没有老百姓设卡，安全一点。
"They told me to go as fast as I could without people setting up checkpoints.
上高速之前，我给家里打了个电话。
Before I got on the freeway, I called home.
当时快7点了，我的老婆、孩子和父母聚在一起，刚好是准备开饭的时候。
It was almost seven o'clock, and my wife, children and parents were gathered together just as we were getting ready for dinner.
按照我们那边的习俗，不管家里有钱没钱，都是10个菜。
According to our custom, no matter whether the family has money or not, it is 10 dishes.
父亲亲自上阵，尽管知道我回不去，还是做了好几个我爱吃的菜，比如醋溜鱼、猪蹄、花生。
My father went to the war himself and though he knew I couldn't go back, he cooked several of my favorite foods, such as vinegar fish, hog's hoof and peanuts.
老婆说，你不在家吃饭，总是少了点啥。
His wife said that if you don't eat at home, there will always be something missing.
我说没事，我给家里挣钱嘛。
I said it's okay. I'll make money for my family.
电话打了三四十分钟，我没跟他们说刚刚的经历。
The call lasted thirty or forty minutes and I didn't tell them what I had been through.
父母70多岁了，血压高，心脏也不是很好，我不想刺激他们。
My parents are in their 70s, their blood pressure is high, their heart is not very good, I don't want to stimulate them.
跟老婆、孩子也是捡好的说，我跟孩子说了一会儿，让他听话，鼓励他成绩搞好一点，如果考得好，咱们就能省点入学的费用。
With his wife, children also pick up said, I talked to the child for a while, let him listen, encourage him to do better in the test, if well done, we can save the cost of admission.
肖红兵和他的红色江淮。
Xiao Hongbing and his red Jianghuai.
（图片来源：搜狐视频）很想哭，没时间哭上了高速，我还不能回家。
(Photo: Sohu video) I want to cry, there is no time to cry on the high-speed, I can not go home.
从四川到湖北有1000多公里，如果空车回去，开支要2000多块，相当于把上一单挣的钱都跑在路上了，太划不来。
From Sichuan to Hubei there are more than 1000 kilometers, if the empty car back, the expenditure of more than 2,000, equivalent to the last single income on the road, too worthwhile.
家人也说，尽量选离家近一点的单子，把货拉来以后，就近回家一趟。
The family also said, try to choose a closer home list, after hauling the goods, the nearest home.
我在货车帮（类似货车版滴滴）上找了半天，真找到一个，到陕西的城固装货，送到安康。
I looked for a long time on the wagon train (similar to drip drip), really found one, to the city of Shaanxi solid loading, sent to Ankang.
我距离城固有400多公里，城固到安康也不太远，平时我是不会接这种单的，但是当时我想回家，就接下了。
I am more than 400 kilometers away from the city, solid to well-being is not too far, usually I will not accept such a single, but then I want to go home, and took it.
我和平台沟通好，交了100块订金，就往城固开。
I and the platform to communicate well, paid a deposit of 100 yuan, solid open to the city.
开出八九十公里后，他们发现我是湖北的，就说不行。
After driving for eighty or ninety kilometers, they found out that I was from Hubei, so they said no.
那时已经夜里12点左右了，我只好把车停在四川江油附近的一个服务区。
It was around 12: 00 in the night and I had to park my car in a service area near Jiangyou, Sichuan Province.
好大的服务区，人都看不到一个，只停着这一台车。
What a large service area, people do not see one, only parked this car.
那晚还没有人撵我，但是我好多天没洗澡了，身上有点痒，睡了不到3个小时就醒了。
No one put me out that night, but I hadn't bathed for days, I had some itching and woke up after less than 3 hours of sleep.
天刚刚亮，我就启程，准备下高速找个便宜的小旅馆，开个钟点房洗个澡、换身衣服。
As the day dawned, I set out to find a cheap hotel on the freeway and set up an hour room to shower and change.
结果到处设卡，高速也不让下了，收费站贴着标语，写着“疫情防控、禁止出入”。
As a result, checkpoints were set up, highways were closed, toll gates were posted with signs that read "epidemic prevention and control, no access."
我有点慌了，但是人家说上面已经下发通知了，尽量哪儿来的车回哪儿去。
I'm a little nervous, but they say it's been posted up there, trying to get the car back where it came from.
疫情很严重，都能理解、能接受，我就又上高速了。
The epidemic is so serious, it's understandable, it's acceptable, and I'm on top of the highway again.
没想到，这次我在路上漂了四天四夜。
Unexpectedly, I spent four days and four nights on the road this time.
一次，我把车停到一个停车区，想吃口泡面，很快就过来一个年轻的工作人员，让我赶紧走。
Once, I pulled into a parking area, wanted to eat bubble noodles, soon came a young staff member, let me hurry to go.
我们吵了半天。
We had a long quarrel.
我说，我在这儿歇一会行不行？一晚上都没怎么睡觉，开车开得疲惫。
I said, can I take a break here? I haven't slept much all night and I'm tired of driving.
我半个月都没回去了，警察调查过了，防疫人员也检查过了，都没有问题，为啥不能停？他说，反正就是不能在这儿停。
I haven't been back in half a month, the police have investigated, the cordon sanitaire has checked, it's all right, why can't you stop? 'he said.
接着，就狠狠地拍我的车门。
And then I slammed the door of my car.
没办法，我只能继续往前走了。
I can't help it. I have to move on.
不过，那时我有点生气了，总得给我个离开的道理，我有不在湖北的证据，警察都没撵我走，你撵我走？我很想回家，导航的目的地已经从城固换成荆州。
However, I was a little angry at that time, I have to give me to leave the reason, I have no evidence of Hubei, the police did not put me out, you put me out? I would like to go home, navigation destination has changed from solid city to Jingzhou.
结果导航出了问题，导到一个叫宁强的地方，由高速改国道。
As a result, the navigation problem, leading to a place called Ningqiang, by high-speed national road.
夜里1点到了国道入口，去路被一个横杆拦住了，上面用绳子挂着一张纸，写着“非本镇人员车辆严禁入内”，我只好改道乡道。
At 1 p. m., I got to the entrance of the National Road. The way was stopped by a crossbar with a piece of paper hanging from it that said "No cars in this town" and I had to change the country road.
开到要进省道的地方，又被几张桌子拦住了。
When we reached the point where we wanted to get into the province, we were stopped by several tables.
旁边有个棚子，有人值守，他看见我是湖北牌照，就指着我说：“赶紧走，不然我报警了。
He saw that I was a Hubei license plate, so he pointed to me and said, "Hurry or I'll call the police.
”本来经过一个隧道，很快就能到达我要去的路，但是他不让我走，给我指了一条老路，要沿着山上的悬崖走。
A tunnel would have taken me very far, but he would not let me go, and showed me the old way along the cliffs on the hill.
那段山路真的太危险了。
That mountain road is really too dangerous.
我的车两米宽，路也就两米七八宽的样子。
My car is two meters wide and the road is two meters seven and eight wide.
不时会遇到团雾，把大灯打开也只能看到三四米。
Occasionally encounter fog, turn on the headlights can only see three or four meters.
一路上静极了，一辆车都没遇到。
It was so quiet all the way that no car was encountered.
我的车收不到广播，手机是个400块钱的国产杂牌，牌子我都说不出来，上面连品牌名都没有，为了省下流量，我也没下载什么歌曲。
My car can not receive the radio, the mobile phone is a 400 yuan domestic miscellaneous card, I can not even say the brand name, in order to save traffic, I did not download any songs.
就这样恍惚地开着，不知道是虚幻还是现实。
Just like this trance open, do not know is illusory or reality.
说出来你别笑话，为了保持清醒，我掐大腿、薅头发，最惨的时候，打嘴巴。
Don't joke about it. To stay awake, I pinch, pick up my hair and, worst of all, hit my mouth.
什么都不敢想，怕一分神就掉下悬崖了。
Do not dare to think of anything, for fear of falling off a cliff.
凌晨，父亲发来一个微信自带的笑脸，当时我很想哭，但是没时间哭。
In the wee hours, my father sent me a small smile. I wanted to cry, but I didn't have time to cry.
后来终于上了省道。
Then I finally got on the dart.
清晨6点，我到了陕西汉中。
At 6: 00 in the morning, I arrived at Hanzhong Shaanxi Province.
走了这么远，我又有点不甘心，就去平台上找，又发现了一个合适的单子，也是从城固出发，运大米去湖北十堰。
Walking so far, I am a little reluctant to go to the platform, and found a suitable list, also from the city solid, to transport rice to Hubei Shiyan.
我事先让平台转告货主，说我是湖北的。
I asked the platform to tell the owner in advance that I was from Hubei.
他们说没事，哪儿的车都能拉。
They say it's okay. You can pull any car anywhere.
去的路上也有卡点，但是时间太早，没人上班，我很顺利地过去了。
There was a jam on the way, too, but it was too early for anyone to go to work and I got through it all right.
等我把车开到工厂门口，老百姓又报警了。
When I pulled over to the factory gate, the people called the police again.
我问警察，湖北还回得去吗？听上去，他们也不知道我往回开会是什么情况。
I asked the police if Hubei could make it back? It sounded as if they didn't know what it was like to go back to the meeting.
在四川的时候，我并没觉得生气或委屈，疫情这么严重，国家有什么调控政策，咱们也理解。
In Sichuan, I did not feel angry or aggrieved, the epidemic so serious, the country has any regulatory policy, we also understand.
后来到处不能停、不能走，这才有点心酸。
Later, I could not stop or walk anywhere, which is a bit sad.
高速不能停车，我总不能一直跑下去。
I can't stop at high speed. I can't keep running.
我已经几天几夜没睡了，也没怎么吃东西，方便面没有开水泡，饿得不行了，就嚼干的。
I hadn't slept for days and nights, I hadn't eaten much, I hadn't had any blister on my instant noodles, and I was so hungry I chewed it dry.
我当时都不知道导航该导哪了，根本不知道怎么走。
I didn't even know where to navigate, I didn't know how to get there.
我就这么漫无目的地开着，后来我想，尽量还是往湖北靠靠。
I just drove around aimlessly, and then I thought, try to pull up to Hubei.
“还有好人”其实，一路上，我想了很多办法。
"And the good guys" Actually, I thought a lot along the way.
打了12122高速救助电话，对方说能够回家的话还是回家，现在疫情比较严重。
A 12122 high-speed telephone call, the other side said to be able to go home or go home, now the epidemic is more serious.
我又打给天门的110，他们说湖北的路都封了，回不来，能不能跟当地的110求助，等疫情解除了再回来？我想，之前那些警察都让我尽量回去，他们也很为难，就没再打。
I called Tianmen 110, they said Hubei roads are closed, can't go back, can you ask the local 110 for help, when the disease is resolved? I think, before the police asked me to go back as far as possible, they are also very difficult, did not fight again.
中途导航出了问题，我又头昏脑涨的，竟向着相反的方向开。
When something went wrong with the navigation, I was dizzy and headed in the opposite direction.
29号中午，临近汉中，我实在困得不行了，就把车停在紧急停车道上，想着睡一会。
At noon on the 29th, near Hanzhong, I was so sleepy that I parked in the emergency lane and thought about going to sleep for a while.
之前也停在紧急停车道上睡过，被警察教育了，但是我实在受不了了，一躺下就睡着了。
I had slept on the emergency parking lot and was educated by the police, but I couldn't take it any more and fell asleep as soon as I lay down.
下午3点，我被警察敲窗户的声音叫醒了。
At 3 p.m. I was woken up by the sound of the police knocking on the window.
他们看到我快崩溃的样子，就说：“你跟我们走吧，带你去个地方休息。
When they saw how close I was to collapse, they said, "Come with us and take you somewhere to rest.
”我跟着警车去了勉县北的一个高速收费站。
I followed the police car to a high-speed toll station north of Prey County.
路上我很忐忑，毕竟这是违章停车，我不知道他们会怎么处理。
On the way I perturbed, after all this is illegal parking, I do not know how they will deal with.
结果下了车，就有工作人员给我拿了几个小面包、几个橘子，还有牛奶。
As a result, someone brought me some buns, some oranges, and milk.
我估计那是他们自己的工作餐，因为小面包的外包装已经撕开了。
I suppose it was their own working dinner, for the outer packing of the bun had been torn.
他们把食物拿给我的时候，我眼泪马上就下来了。
When they brought me the food, my tears came down immediately.
前面几天总是被赶来赶去，我真的没想到还有这样的好人。
A few days ago always been rushed to and fro, I really did not think there are such good people.
之后他们把我带到汉中北服务区，说这里没人撵我，可以安心待着。
Then they took me to the Hanzhong North service area and said no one wanted me there to stay.
肖红兵和汉中警察的合影。
The photo of Xiao Hongbing and Hanzhong police.
受访者供图到了服务区，我睡了一个很长的觉，从下午一直睡到第二天10点。
The interviewee showed up at the service area and I slept a long night's sleep from the afternoon until 10: 00 the next day.
醒来之后，我给家里打了电话。
When I woke up, I called home.
从除夕开始，我就没有和他们联系。
I haven't been in touch with them since New Year's Eve.
打来的电话都没有接，一是手机信号不好，怕导航一中断就很难重新连接了，二是不想告诉他们我这么狼狈。
Phone calls did not answer, one is bad cell phone signals, afraid of navigation is very difficult to re-connect, and two do not want to tell them that I am so embarrassed.
电话一接通，我母亲就哭了，他们就我一个孩子，她说的第一句话就是，还活着就好。
As soon as the phone got through, my mother began to cry. They were just me. The first thing she said was, just be alive.
那几天，他们怕我出事，不过好在手机一直开着机，他们知道我手机还充着电，说明发动机还开着，我应该还活着。
Those days, they were afraid of something happening to me, but luckily the phone was on, and they knew my phone was still charged, indicating that the engine was still on and I should still be alive.
我告诉他们，服务区领导很好，专门安排了人，每天给我量体温、消毒、送吃的。
I told them that the head of the service area was very good, specially arranged for people to take my temperature, disinfect and deliver food every day.
交警队的领导也来看望，拿了慰问品。
The head of the traffic police came to see him and took comfort.
他们说，不回来也好，家乡形势挺严峻的，小区封掉了。
They said, do not come back, the situation in his hometown is quite serious, the community closed.
后面这些天，我一直待在服务区。
I've been in the service area for the last few days.
开始需要有个隔离期，我白天基本不下车，到了晚上，确认四周没人，就赶快跑下车，泡点方便面、上个厕所。
To begin with, I need a period of isolation. At night, when I can make sure no one is around, I run out of the car, make some instant noodles and go to the toilet.
我尽量不给服务区的人添麻烦，就怕他们赶我走。
I tried not to cause trouble to the people in the service area, for fear that they would send me away.
附近100米有个加油站，来加油的司机经常侧过头看，一个石家庄的司机还对着我的车拍了照。
There was a gas station about 100 metres away, and the driver who came to refuel often turned his head. A driver from Shijiazhuang also took a picture of my car.
后来看到有车冲我开过来，我都害怕。
I was scared when I saw a car coming towards me.
我们开货车的，经常一个人在路上，孤独惯了。
We drive trucks, often alone on the road, used to be lonely.
话虽这么说，我还从来没有遇到过这种情况，之前每两三天还能和货主聊聊，现在我唯一能见到的人就是送饭的王主管。
Having said that, I had never been in a situation where I had been able to talk to the owner every two or three days, and now the only person I could see was the head of the rice-delivery department.
我天天都盼着他来，说个一句话、两句话。
I looked forward to him every day, saying a word or two.
每隔一天，我和家人视频一次。
Every other day, I have a video with my family.
手机不敢用太久，要把车发动了才能充电，费油，我每天只看十几分钟，看看朋友圈，看看家里人发来的天门疫情通报。
Cell phones do not dare to use too long, to start the car to charge, fuel, I only watch 10 minutes a day, to see friends, to see the family from the Tianmen epidemic notice.
剩下的时间就是发发呆，或者想一想以前学的东西。
The rest of the time is to daze or think about what I learned before.
五六年前我搞过蔬菜种植，投资过一个110亩的蔬菜基地，前些年的积蓄加上向亲戚朋友借的钱，总共投入了一百多万，后来全打水漂了。
I grew vegetables five or six years ago and invested in a 110-acre vegetable base. The savings from previous years, together with money borrowed from relatives and friends, put in more than a million dollars.
因为当时是种植业的一个洗牌期，供大于求。
Because it was a reshuffle in the plantation industry, supply exceeded demand.
但是我还是喜欢这个，之前存了一些相关的论坛在手机浏览器的书签里，这十几天，我偶尔会翻出来看看，想想如果是我做，可以怎么扬长避短。
But I still like this one, I have saved some related forums in the bookmark of mobile phone browser, these ten days, I occasionally look out, think if I do, how can avoid the disadvantages.
为了省油，我几乎不开空调。
To save fuel, I hardly turn on the air conditioner.
白天还好，晚上睡觉，经常在后半夜被冻醒。
Good day, sleep at night, often in the middle of the night was frozen awake.
这时我才会打开空调，吹一个小时暖风，然后赶紧关了。
Then I would turn on the air conditioner, blow for an hour warm wind, then hurriedly shut off.
偶尔，我会下车看看太阳，停车的地方是背阴面，一天到晚黑漆漆的。
Occasionally, I would get out of the car and look at the sun. The parking place was shady and dark all day long.
这里也没什么风景，光秃秃的。
There's no scenery here. It's bare.
看看太阳，好像心里舒坦一点。
Look at the sun. It feels better.
“等到春天，再开上我的车跑一跑”大概五六天以前，服务区放假了。
"Wait till spring, drive my car to run" About five or six days ago, the service area was closed.
过了两天，没人来送饭了。
Two days later, no one brought any food.
我知道，他们住的地方有些远，来回不方便，就吃车上的存粮吧。
I know, they live a little far away, back and forth inconvenient, eat the food on the car bar.
之前交警队的领导送来一箱方便面，我原本不想动，想着回到湖北以后，和媒体说说这边对我的帮助，到时候，这箱面就作为一个原始依据。
Before the delivery of a case of instant noodles by the police leadership, I did not want to move, thinking of returning to Hubei, and the media about this side of my help, when the time came, this box as an original basis.
后来犹豫了半个小时，我还是把这箱面拆开了。
After hesitating for half an hour, I took the box apart.
拆开之前，我给它拍了张照。
Before I opened it, I took a picture of it.
到了2月7号，只剩下3盒方便面、3个苹果、6小盒牛奶，我有点慌了。
By February 7, there were only three boxes of instant noodles, three apples and six boxes of milk left.
我在陕西当过兵，认识了不少朋友，就给西安的一个朋友打电话，看他能不能帮忙。
I had been a soldier in Shaanxi Province, knew many friends, and called a friend in Xi'an to see if he could help.
他注册过微博，我委托他发布了求助信息。
He signed up for microblogging, and I commissioned him to post help messages.
2月7日，肖红兵给仅剩的食物拍照，委托朋友在网上求助。
On Feb. 7, Xiao Hongbing took photos of the only food left and entrusted a friend to ask for help online.
受访者供图大概一个小时后，第一通电话打来了，是位西安的男性。
About an hour later, the first call came from a man in Xi'an.
他想开车给我送点吃的，后来发现有两三百公里远，车开出来，再想回去就有点困难。
He wanted to drive me something to eat, but then he found it was two or three hundred kilometres away, and it was difficult to get back.
后来又接了大概20个电话，都是好心的陌生人打来的，但是最近的也要六七十公里，没办法过来。
Then I answered about 20 more calls, all from well-meaning strangers, but the nearest had to be sixty or seventy kilometers away.
不过我还是很谢谢他们的鼓励。
But I do appreciate their encouragement.
当时自嘲地想，一天吃一盒方便面，还能撑3天，加上苹果，5天没问题，还有6小盒牛奶，应该可以再撑3天。
One box of instant noodles could last three days, plus apples, no problem for five days, and six small boxes of milk, which should hold out for another three days, I thought to myself.
2月8日元宵节，服务区的工作人员来了。
February 8 Lantern Festival, the service area staff came.
他们给我安排了一个房间，像酒店的标间，有两张床、空调、电视、烧水壶，还有独立的卫生间。
They arranged for me to have a room like a hotel's standard room with two beds, an air conditioner, a TV, a kettle and a separate bathroom.
王主管说，之前照顾不周，你在这里可以一直免费住到回家。
Wang said that before the poor care, you can stay here for free until home.
他们端来了红豆馅的元宵，吃着挺甜。
They brought red bean stuffing Yuanxiao, eating very sweet.
晚上我洗了个澡，20多天了，第一次洗上热水澡，真舒服。
I took a bath in the evening, more than 20 days, the first time to take a hot bath, really comfortable.
现在我距离天门有900多公里。
Now I am more than 900 kilometers from the Tianmen Gate.
天门是个农业大市，往年过了正月十五，就开始运送春耕物资了。
Tianmen is a big agricultural market, usually after the fifteenth day of the first year, began to transport spring ploughing materials.
春天到来，人们开始播种了，就有一点希望的感觉。
When spring came, people began to sow, and there was a sense of hope.
人就是活在希望中间嘛。
Man lives in the midst of hope.
到了五一，之前种下的小麦和油菜收获了，还要插秧。
By May Day, the wheat and rape planted before the harvest, but also planting rice seedlings.
我们称这段时期为“双抢”，抢丰收、抢种植，是最需要货车的时候。
We call this period as "double-grabbing," grabbing harvest, planting, is the most need of trucks.
我希望疫情尽快过去，赶在“双抢”之前，再开上我的车跑一跑。
I hope the epidemic is over as soon as possible, before the "double-rob," then drive on my car for a run.
我的车是辆红色的江淮。
My car is a red Jianghuai.
这半年我们已经培养出感情了，我经常跟它说：“兄弟，最辛苦的就是你，拖多少、跑多远也不吱声。
I have often said to him, "Brother, the hardest thing is you, to drag and run as far as you can.
”最近，它终于可以歇一歇了。
"Recently he was able to take a break.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介陈怡含我情愿相信世界不愚昧。
Back-office reply & quot; Reader & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
四天四夜，湖北司机高速漂流记。
Four days and four nights, Hubei driver high-speed drift.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "四天四夜，湖北司机高速漂流记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“哪儿来的车回哪儿去。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Where did you get the car?
”";。
";;
title: '被租客带走的杭州女孩',。
Hangzhou girl & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; & & quot; & & quot
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '上万人曾被强制绝育，半世纪后终于等到了国家道歉',。
Tens of thousands of people have been forcibly sterilized and waited at least half a century to see the nation apologize and say hello.
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
