疫情中的城市救助站，安顿着无家可归者。
Urban rescue stations in the midst of the epidemic have settled the homeless.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
仙桃救助站工作人员给房间消毒。
The staff at the Peach Rescue Station disinfected the room.
受访者供图文| 周航编辑| 陶若谷细小的角落也在与疫情抗争，城市救助站（全称救助管理站）就是其中之一。
The small corner of Taurou Valley where interviewees fought against the epidemic was one of the first urban rescue stations (known as the Rescue Management Station).
这个并不总是引人注目的地方，收留着无家可归者，在城市中起着不可或缺的兜底作用。
This is not always a high-profile place, home to the homeless, in the city plays an indispensable role as a backstop.
突然肆虐的新型冠状病毒拦住了一些人归家的道路。
Suddenly a new coronavirus has blocked the way for some people to return home.
流浪乞讨的生活方式和脏乱差的卫生习惯，让这个群体的感染风险高于常人。
Vagrancy begging lifestyle and dirty hygiene habits, so that this group of people at higher risk of infection than normal.
而且，他们中有不少罹患精神疾病或有智力障碍，无法自行对抗疫情。
Moreover, many of them suffer from mental illness or disorders that prevent them from fighting the epidemic on their own.
生存空间被进一步挤压，依旧敞开大门的救助站成了他们唯一的去处。
Living space is further squeezed, still open to the rescue station has become their only place.
这个春节，仙桃市救助站的工作人员林力（化名）和同事取消了休假，每天在一线工作，忙碌于消毒杀菌和紧缺的物资采购。
Lin Li (not his real name) and his colleagues at the Xian Tao rescue station cancelled their holidays and worked daily on the front lines, busily sterilizing and purchasing scarce supplies.
在这个距离武汉不到100公里的县级市，特殊时期里的无家可归者面临怎样的境遇？工作人员遇到什么新的挑战，又是如何应对的？以下是林力口述：我们（救助站）是民政系统下面的事业单位，平时专门救助流浪乞讨人员。
In this county-level city less than 100 kilometers away from Wuhan, what is the situation of homeless people in this special period? What are the new challenges and how to deal with them?
疫情突然爆发，我们的任务也紧张了。
With the outbreak of the outbreak, our task has been strained.
大年二十九夜，仙桃“封城”第一天，警察就领来了一个人，巡查时发现的流浪者，一个50多岁的男子。
On the first day of the year, the police brought a man, a vagabond, a man in his fifties, who had been spotted on patrol.
他眼神呆滞，一看就是智力有缺陷，外面套着睡袄，手一直插在兜里，里面直接穿着秋衣，脚上一双布鞋。
His eyes were glazed with intelligence, he wore a sleeping jacket, his hands were always in his pockets, he was wearing an autumn coat and a pair of slippers on his feet.
他随身什么东西都没有，几乎没法沟通。
He had nothing with him and could hardly communicate.
还有一个精神异常的，也是警察送过来，状况比较稳定，没有明显狂躁，但沟通之后发现有被迫害妄想症。
There is also a mental abnormality, also sent by the police, relatively stable, not obviously manic, but after the communication found that there are persecutory delusions.
立即送医院有风险，我们就把他安置在隔离间观察。
It's dangerous to get him to the hospital right away, so we'll put him in a seclusion.
这时候来人，肯定有风险。
It must be risky to come at this moment.
如果不收，我们这点地方也没什么问题。
If we don't take it, there's nothing wrong with this place.
但特殊时期，你不收留他们，他们能去哪，吃饭、睡觉地方都没有。
But special period, you do not take them in, they can go where, eat, sleeping place is not.
2018年2月，住在江苏南京地铁里的无家可归者。
February 2018, living in Nanjing, Jiangsu homeless people.
图文无关以前春节，我们会放假，轮流值班。
Before Spring Festival, we would have a holiday and take turns on duty.
去年就大年初三收了一个。
Last year I received one on the third day of New Year.
今年不行，正月初一下午，站里紧急开会，取消休假，全部上岗。
Not this year, the first month of the afternoon, the station emergency meeting, cancellation of holidays, all on duty.
现在我们已经收留了9个，除了上面说的那两个，剩下的都是因为“封城”回不去家。
Now we have taken in nine, except for the above two, the rest of the "closure" can not go home.
正月初三，一个老先生自己过来求助。
On the third day of the first month, an old gentleman came to help himself.
河南人，59岁，头发有点花白，样子很朴实，穿得也比较整齐。
Henan people, 59 years old, a bit graying hair, look very simple, also dressed neatly.
他身上有一两千块钱，本来打算大年二十九回家，正好赶上“封城”。
He had one or two thousand dollars on him, and had intended to return home about twenty-nine years old, just in time to meet the siege.
之前他应该是在（打工的）老板那住了几天，也不是长久之计，人家让他来救助站看看。
Before he should be in the boss's house for a few days, is not a long-term solution, he was asked to see the rescue station.
来的时候挺不安的，问我们收不收，我们当然要收的。
When I came, I was very upset. I asked if we would accept it or not. Of course we would.
还有个小伙子，17岁4个月大，打工仔模样，穿得挺时尚，外套是韩版那种，提了个拉杆箱，身上一分钱没有。
There was another guy, 17, 4 months old, who looked like a wage earner, dressed in style, had a Korean jacket, carried a pole case and didn't have a penny on him.
前几天靠工友接济，现在没地方去了，网吧都关了，在街头流荡，警察带来我们这里。
A few days ago rely on the help of fellow workers, now no place to go, Internet cafes are closed, wandering in the streets, the police brought us here.
小伙子老家重庆的，大概因为第三方招工虚假宣传，报高工资，报低劳动强度，去了承受不了，干一两个月就走了，试用期没过，工资也拿不到。
The young man's hometown of Chongqing, probably because of the third party recruitment false propaganda, high wages, reported low labor intensity, go to can not bear, after a month or two left, the probationary period did not pass, the salary was not paid.
他话很少，不联系家里，也不给我们联系方式。
He said very little, did not contact his family and did not give us contact information.
但是他有身份证，等交通恢复，我们就给他买车票，送他回家。
But he had his ID card, and when the traffic was back, we bought him a ticket and took him home.
去年和他情况差不多的，我们就送回（老家）了二十多个。
Last year, like him, we sent him back more than twenty times.
在我们这，吃得说不上多好，但肯定不会饿到。
It's not good to eat here, but it's definitely not going to be hungry.
过来先洗澡，他们也很需要这个。
Come take a shower first. They need this too.
衣服也是免费的，冬天发羽绒服，男的黑色，女的红色。
Clothes are also free, winter hair down jacket, male black, female red.
救助站也有规则，我们半封闭化管理，来了后只能在救助站内活动，屋里没插座，随身物品包括手机需要代替保管。
Rescue stations also have rules, we semi-enclosed management, after the arrival of only in the rescue station activities, there is no socket, accessories, including mobile phones need to replace the custody.
可以给家人打电话，有电话也会通知到位。
You can call your family and you will be notified if you have a phone call.
重庆那小伙子这几天估计憋得也难受，但还是挺配合的。
That guy in Chongqing may have been hard to hold up these days, but he still works well.
接受救助全凭自愿。
Recourse to assistance is voluntary.
这几天也有人过来，我们把规则讲给他听，觉得受不了，直接走了。
We told him the rules. I couldn't bear it, so we went straight away.
我们有辆救助车，每天会跑出去，特别是去涵洞、桥底，但最近这些地方白天都没人了，整个城市都空了。
We have a rescue car that goes out every day, especially to culverts and bridges, but these days they're empty and the city is empty.
晚上倒是会有一些人流荡，警察碰到，就带到我们这里。
In the evening, there will be some people drifting, the police encountered, brought to us.
公安、城管巡逻发现需要救助的，也有及时救助的责任。
Public security, urban patrol found in need of help, but also have a timely responsibility to rescue.
说实话，别的地方像宜昌救助站工作更细，不间断街头巡查，但我们的人员力量偏少，只能24小时值守。
To tell the truth, other places like Yichang Rescue Station work more subtly, constantly patrolling the streets, but our staff is too small to be on duty 24 hours a day.
算上护工，我们站一共十多个人。
Including the nursing staff, we stand a dozen or so people.
一个在老家回不来，两个被抽调到村里督导疫情防控工作，其他人一律在岗，每晚安排值班。
One could not return home, two were transferred to the village to supervise the work of disease prevention and control, all the others are on duty every night.
仙桃市救助站春节值班表。
Xiandao City Help Station Spring Festival duty table.
受访者供图现在市区，每户每两天可以有一个人出门采购。
The survey shows that one person can go shopping every two days in urban areas.
我们上下班，都要有单位出证明，但车开不了，一般机动车都禁行了，只能骑自行车上下班。
We have to work, units have to prove, but the car can not drive, general motor vehicles are banned, can only use bicycles to work.
回家肯定要作个人防护，消毒液稀释后喷洒衣服，袖口、裤腿都喷一遍，脱下外套，晒在阳台通风的地方。
To go home must do personal protection, disinfectant dilution after spraying clothes, cuffs, trouser legs are sprayed again, take off the coat, sun in the balcony ventilation place.
前段时间，有人到救助站，我们都会测体温，看有没有咳嗽，没问题就收留进来。
Some time ago, someone came to the rescue station, we will take temperature, to see if there is a cough, no problem to take in.
之前还一直用水银温度计。
Mercury thermometers have been used until now.
疫情爆发后，有医院送了我们两个新式的温度计，红外感应，头上一照就行。
After the outbreak, a hospital sent us two new thermometers, infrared sensors, one on the head.
方便是方便，但可能是厂家赠品缘故，质量不怎么样，经常报错，所以只能两者一块用。
Convenience is convenient, but may be a manufacturer of gifts, quality is not good, often reported wrong, so can only be used together.
这也是我们仅有的健康筛查手段了。
This is the only health screening tool we have.
要求是救助对象都要先体检，没问题再送进站，但前段时间形势严峻，定点医院也少，没有症状的人医院根本顾不上。
The request is to rescue the object to have a medical examination, no problem to send to the station, but some time ago the situation is serious, there are few designated hospitals, no symptoms of the people at the hospital.
现在医疗资源的紧张状况稍有所缓解。
The strain on medical resources has now eased somewhat.
最近来的两个都是乡镇设卡发现的，他们带去医院做检查，拍胸片，没问题送了过来。
The last two were found in the townships. They took them to the hospital for a check-up and a chest film. No problem.
有一个是从宜昌走了几天，想走回江西老家，说自己又饿又冻。
There is a few days walk from Yichang, want to go back to Jiangxi home, said they are hungry and frozen.
他说起自己经历，我们都很吃惊。
We were all surprised when he told of his experiences.
人员进来，我们会单独隔离，三人间只住一个人。
Personnel come in. We'll be isolated. Three people living alone.
我们一共48个床位，正好未成年人的男区和女区都空着，就可以把他们安置起来。
We have a total of 48 beds, just when the minors' male and female quarters are empty, so they can be accommodated.
工作中尽量还是避免直接接触，吃饭就放在门口，他们吃完把碗筷递出来。
Work or try to avoid direct contact, eating on the door, they eat out a bowl of chopsticks.
每天，我们都会给工作人员和新收留的人发口罩。
Every day, we give staff and new hires hair masks.
一天两个，上午用一个，下午用一个。
One in the morning and one in the afternoon.
除了大年二十九夜里警察领来的那个，另外几个人来的时候都戴着口罩，但只有河南的老先生包里还有两个备用的，其他人都没多的。
Except for the one brought in by the police on the night of the twenty-ninth of the year, several others came wearing masks, but only the old gentleman in Henan had two spare ones in his bag.
我都不知道，要是不来救助站，他们怎么办。
I don't even know what they're gonna do if they don't come to the station.
口罩我们平常也用，之前备了500个，普通的一次性口罩，15块钱一包，一包50个。
We usually use masks, before the 500, ordinary disposable masks, 15 yuan a pack, a pack of 50.
大年初五又补了1000个，单独包装那种，三块钱一个，用十天半个月没问题。
At the beginning of the year, another 1000 were replenished, one for each of the three, and ten days for half a month.
但消毒用品太紧缺了。
But disinfectant supplies are in short supply.
我们平常一个月采购一次。
We usually go shopping once a month.
最近一次采购是元旦后，20瓶84消毒液，5瓶医用酒精。
The most recent purchase was after New Year's Day, 20 bottles of disinfectant 84 and 5 bottles of medical alcohol.
既然还在收人，消毒工作肯定不能停。
Since it's still being collected, the disinfection must not stop.
如果出现一个病患，我们这可能就要全军覆没了。
If a patient shows up, we could be totally destroyed.
早上7点，护理人员上班，给他们房间消杀（消毒杀菌）。
At 7 a. m., paramedics go to work and kill their rooms (sterilize).
以前我们可能一天消杀一次，但现在早上做一遍，下午趁着他们活动做一遍，晚上再做一遍。
We used to kill them once a day, but now we do them in the morning, do them in the afternoon and do them again in the evening.
其他地方，像工作台也要消杀。
Elsewhere, like the workbench, it must be eliminated.
酒精主要是工作人员出去，回来用喷壶给衣物消毒。
Alcohol is mostly used by staff going out and coming back to disinfect clothes with a spray bottle.
仙桃市救助站工作人员为无家可归者做体温、血压常规检测。
Xiantao City rescue workers for homeless people temperature, blood pressure routine testing.
受访者供图疫情来得太突然，不可能有充分准备。
The respondents' response to the outbreak was too sudden to be fully prepared.
1月22日之前，一切工作还是按部就班，23日“封城”开始，我们就到处找消毒用品，全卖完了，没渠道买。
Before January 22, everything was still on schedule. Starting with the "Seal of the City" on January 23rd, we searched everywhere for disinfectant supplies.
仙桃是医疗物资生产重地，但兄弟单位跑了7家工厂也买不到——产品下线直接拉到武汉和一些大医院，联系好熟人都不能进。
The nectarine is a major producer of medical supplies, but brother units have been unable to buy it in seven factories - products are taken off the line directly to Wuhan and some major hospitals, and no one can get in contact with them.
2月2日，消毒液和酒精全用完了，一滴不剩。
On February 2, we ran out of disinfectant and alcohol. Not a drop was left.
防护服更是从来没有。
And protective clothing is never there.
接触人员太复杂，像我们接待岗，保安岗，其实也需要这个。
The contact personnel is too complicated, like our reception sentry post, security guard, also needs this actually.
我们就自己到处想办法。
We'll figure it out for ourselves.
2月3日，通过私人关系，找到本土超市，说好话，他们让了自用的10小瓶84消毒液给我们。
On February 3, through a personal relationship, they approached a local supermarket and, to put it mildly, gave us 10 bottles of disinfectant 84 for their own use.
但再节约使用，也只能五天。
But again economizes use, also can only five days.
好在第二天，有朋友单位有宽裕，又友情转让了一点，20瓶消毒液、100双医用手套、10件防护服，算是缓了口气。
Fortunately, the next day, there are friends rich, and the transfer of a bit of friendship, 20 bottles of disinfectant, 100 pairs of medical gloves, 10 pieces of protective clothing, is a relief.
这天市里也在高速公路设置了集中交易点，可以定点购买医疗用品。
On that day, the city also set up a central highway trading point, can be targeted to purchase medical supplies.
我们没有酒精，消毒液也不够长时间支撑，防护服太少，本来打算到指挥部去争取采购一批，但说只限于跟生产企业签订合同的单位，没有现货摆摊销售。
We had no alcohol, no disinfectant for long enough, too few protective clothing, and had intended to go to the headquarters to procure a batch, but said that it was limited to those who had contracted with the production company and that there were no spot stalls for sale.
后来（民政）局里统一向指挥部争取了一批物资，加上中国社会福利基金会通过省厅也拨了一批，消杀用品的问题算解决了。
Later, the unified (Civil Affairs) Bureau to the command of a batch of materials, together with the China Social Welfare Foundation through the provincial offices also allocated a batch, the problem of sterilization was solved.
但防护用品还是急缺。
But protective equipment is in short supply.
等交通管制结束，站里可能会安排大家适当轮休。
At the end of traffic control, the station may arrange for appropriate rotation.
但疫情结束前，除非身体原因需要隔离，我们肯定会全员上岗，继续自己的工作。
But until the end of the epidemic, unless we need isolation for physical reasons, we will certainly be on full duty to continue our work.
我们这还有30个滞留对象。
We still have 30 people left.
2003年收容遣送制度取消，改成救助制度后，沉淀下来的这些无家可归者，绝大多数都是精神、智力有问题的。
With the abolition of the internment and repatriation system in 2003, the vast majority of these homeless persons who have settled down are mentally and intellectually challenged.
这些人常年在外，有些家里甚至以为人不在了，户口都注销了。
These people are out all year round, some families even think the person is no longer, the account has been canceled.
有的人验DNA，做人像识别都找不到身份信息。
Some people do DNA testing, human image recognition can not find identity information.
大年二十九来的那个人，我们倒是通过人脸识别找到他老家，是隔壁县的。
The man who came around twenty-nine years old, we found his hometown through face recognition, is next door county.
最近，通过那边救助站，我们知道原来他家人也在找他。
Recently, through the help station over there, we knew his family was looking for him, too.
但到处都封路了，村和村都不通，上面也下了通知，停止互相之间的接送。
But everywhere blocked the road, the village and village are impassable, the above also issued a notice, stop the transfer between each other.
就继续安心待在我们这吧。
Just stay with us.
最早过来的人，现在差不多都过了隔离期，没有异常反应，我们也逐渐放心了。
The first comers, now almost out of quarantine, have no abnormal reaction, we are gradually relieved.
这9个人现在都很好。
All nine are fine now.
仙桃市救助管理站。
Xiantao Municipal Rescue Management Station.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介周航故事是历史的茧。
Background & quot; Reader & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的城市救助站，安顿着无家可归者。
Urban rescue stations in the midst of the epidemic have settled the homeless.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的城市救助站，安顿着无家可归者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the midst of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "细小的角落也在与疫情抗争。
var msg _ desc = & quot; small corners are also battling the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '喝风辟谷和它的信徒们',。
Running Valley and its followers & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '争吵中长大，争吵中死去 | 长沙最小植物人在医院的九年',。
Rise and file with AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
