从确诊到康复，一个医学研究生的生死10天。
From diagnosis to rehabilitation, a medical graduate student lives and dies for 10 days.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：年前一次同学聚会后，在武汉读医科的河南女孩李霖琳开始感到不舒服，返乡后确诊患上新型冠状病毒肺炎，住进医疗条件不太充分的县医院隔离病房。
Li Linlin, a Henan girl studying medicine in Wuhan, began to feel ill after a class meeting last year. She was diagnosed with a new coronavirus pneumonia after returning home and was admitted to the isolation ward of a county hospital with inadequate medical care.
她的家人也出现发烧症状，母亲确诊。
Her family also developed fever symptoms and the mother was diagnosed.
从1月23日发热到2月1日基本康复，李霖琳运用专业知识和当地医护人员一起，和病毒斗争了10天。
From fever on January 23 to a near recovery on February 1, Lin Lin used her expertise to fight the virus with local health care workers for 10 days.
目前她还在留院观察，等待出院。
She is still in the hospital for observation and is awaiting discharge.
文丨周航编辑 丨陶若谷随着疫情蔓延，新型冠状病毒正展现它复杂的一面。
As the epidemic spreads, the new coronavirus presents a complex aspect.
有人表现轻微，甚至没有肺炎，但也有不少人情况危重，甚至累及生命。
Some behaved mildly, even without pneumonia, but many others were in critical condition and even life-threatening.
李霖琳则介于两者之间，和很多年轻患者像得了一场感冒不同，24岁的她经历了数小时的呼吸窘迫，自觉是从鬼门关走了一趟。
Lin Lin Lin is somewhere in between. Unlike many young patients who seem to have caught a cold, the 24-year-old experienced hours of respiratory distress and thought she had gone through a ghost door.
危急时刻，在医院供氧的条件下，这位武汉知名高校的医学院研究生开始了堪称教科书式的“自救”。
At the critical moment, in the hospital oxygen supply conditions, the Wuhan University of the medical school graduate students began what can be called a textbook "self-help."
据国家卫委通报，截至2月2日24时，全国确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例共17205例，治愈出院475例。
As of 2400 hours February 2, there were 17,205 confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia nationwide, and 475 cases were cured, the State Sanitary Commission reported.
不久，李霖琳也将被统计到治愈者的数字里面，成为其中一个。
Soon, Lin Lin Lin will also be counted into the number of healers, become one of them.
经历了从发病到康复的10天，她的体悟是，作为个体面对疫情，医学知识是必要的，意志力也是必要的。
After 10 days of illness and recovery, she realized that as an individual facing the epidemic, medical knowledge was necessary, as was willpower.
渡过这一劫，她说未来会更无所畏惧。
Going through this, she said, the future would be more fearless.
以下是她口述的抗疫过程：李霖琳生活照。
Here is her oral history of the epidemic: Lin Lin's life.
受访者供图怎么可能轮到我现在看，这次疫情起病太隐秘了，很多人不知道自己患病，就已经接触、感染了很多人。
Now I see that the epidemic has become so insidious that many people have come into contact with and become infected without knowing that they are ill.
我最早出现症状是1月16日，年前，八九个同学聚餐，吃完饭回实验室，就开始不舒服，头有点晕，我备着体温计，一量果然有点发热，37度2。
My first symptoms are January 16, eight or nine students eat dinner, eat back to the laboratory, began to feel uncomfortable, a bit dizzy, I prepared a thermometer, a measure really a little feverish, 37 degrees 2.
我猜可能因为吃太多，喝了点红酒。
I guess I drank some red wine because I ate too much.
那天本来还想做点事，要毕业了，课题和论文都要忙，但是感觉很困，就直接回宿舍睡了。
I wanted to do something else that day, I was going to graduate, I was busy with my project and thesis, but I felt sleepy, so I went straight back to my dormitory.
那时候根本不会想到新型冠状病毒，当时公布病例只有四十几个，怎么可能轮到我，何况我没去过华南海鲜市场。
At that time, I never thought of the new coronavirus. It was announced that there were only 40 cases of coronavirus.
奇怪的是，后面几天没有不舒服，该干嘛该干嘛，还和朋友出去吃了烤鱼，甚至熬了夜。
Strangely enough, I didn't feel very well in the next few days. I went out with my friends for roast fish and even stayed up all night.
这就是这个病毒可怕的地方，太隐秘了。
This is the hideous part of the virus. It's too secretive.
之所以肯定那次聚餐有问题，是因为我已经七八年没感冒了，鼻涕都很少流，唯独那天不舒服。
I'm sure it was a bad dinner because I hadn't had a cold in seven or eight years, my nose didn't flow much, only that day.
现在想，可能也因为太久不感冒，免疫系统没锻炼过，抵抗力反而不行。
Now think, perhaps also because too long do not catch a cold, immune system has not exercised, resistance is not.
一块吃饭的同学，后来或多或少都有症状，发热、咳嗽，跟感冒一样。
The classmate who eats together, later all have symptom more or less, fever, cough, with cold same.
据我所知，大多没有确诊，只是在医院隔离。
As far as I know, most of them are undiagnosed, isolated in the hospital.
也有个别确诊的。
There have also been individual diagnoses.
我是1月19号回的家，高铁转普快到县城，再回村里。
I return home on January 19th, high-speed rail to the county, and then back to the village.
后面几天疫情突然爆发，我就待在家里，不走亲戚，出门也只有晚上散散步。
A few days later, the outbreak of the outbreak, I stay at home, no relatives, only to go out for a walk at night.
回家第四天，1月23号中午，吃完一碗饺子，我就感到发烧，一量38度，又感觉很冷，还想今年冬天怎么了，家里开了空调还那么冷，钻进被窝，肌肉开始发酸。
On the fourth day of my return home, at noon on January 23, after eating a bowl of dumplings, I felt a fever, a measurement of 38 degrees, and feel very cold, but also wanted to this winter, the air conditioning is still so cold at home, get into bed, muscles began to sour.
那时候我就很恐慌：怎么办，自己是不是”中枪”了？我偷偷哭，憋着哭，还吐了口痰——这口痰是透明的，带着泡沫，医学上叫卡他（症）状，我知道肯定有问题了。
Then I panicked: What if I was "shot"? I secretly cried, choked and spat - this phlegm is transparent, foamy, medically called cataract, and I knew there must be something wrong.
擦完痰，扔了垃圾桶，我跟爸妈说不要碰这个垃圾桶，回头密封处理好。
After wiping sputum, throwing the garbage can, I told my parents not to touch the garbage can, back sealed to deal with it.
我戴上口罩，让他们戴，让他们和亲戚朋友说，也赶紧戴起来。
I put on my mask, let them wear it, let them talk to their relatives and friends, and put it on quickly.
我爸打120，我接过电话，明确告诉对方：我发热了，很可能感染上这次病毒。
My father called 120, I took the phone, clearly told each other: I feverish, most likely to be infected with the virus.
对方也很冷静，问了我情况。
The other side is also very calm, asked me the situation.
等了一两个小时，救护车才到村里。
It took an hour or two for the ambulance to arrive in the village.
路上拥堵，车开得不快，透过玻璃，只能看到灰蒙蒙的天空。
The road was congested and the car was not moving fast. Only the gray sky could be seen through the glass.
我心里想，天哪，这些人怎么还都在外边晃荡。
I thought to myself, God, why are all these people hanging around outside?
那时候心理就有“负反馈效应”了——越想着严重，越会放大病情，一担心全国疫情会不会失控，自己体温又上去了。
At that time there was a "negative feedback effect" - the more serious the thought, the more it magnified the disease, a fear that the national epidemic would get out of control, and his body temperature went up again.
甚至要吐了，赶紧找个垃圾袋，吐完，我一路提着，到隔离病房才扔掉。
Even to vomit, quickly find a garbage bag, vomit, I carry all the way, to the isolation ward before throwing away.
到县医院才知道，我是全县第一个住进隔离病房的。
To the county hospital only know, I was the first to live in isolation ward.
真的很扯，怎么就轮到我了呢。
It's really bullshit. It's my turn.
小县城的隔离病房条件很一般，门是木头做的，厕所要走出门才能上，里面灯坏了，要自己用手机照着。
The isolation ward condition of small county town is very ordinary, door is made of wood, toilet to go out door ability, inside lamp broken, want oneself use mobile phone to shine.
刚开始我想，干嘛要回来，武汉医疗条件不是更好吗。
At first I thought, why to come back, Wuhan medical conditions are not better.
后来庆幸，还好回来了，我的天，在武汉肯定排不上号。
Later, fortunately, fortunately returned, my God, in Wuhan certainly can not arrange the number.
隔离病房医生蒙了几层口罩，只能看到眼睛，那几天还没防护服，只穿了蓝色隔离服，进出就要换。
Isolation ward doctor blindfolded a few layers, can only see the eye, that a few days has not been protective clothing, only wear blue isolation clothes, in and out to change.
我很担心他们，不想让他们碰我。
I'm worried about them. I don't want them to touch me.
有什么事都尽量打电话、发微信。
Try to call or post a letter whenever you have anything.
但他们真的很勇敢，没有人退缩。
But they were really brave and no one flinched.
医生告诉我，这是他们的工作。
The doctor told me it was their job.
资料图。
Map of information.
突然缺氧进医院当天，我就做了全部检查。
On the day of my sudden hypoxia, I had all the examinations.
拍CT，做血常规，各种指标像转氨酶都不正常，和免疫有关的细胞少了特别多，白细胞几乎降到0。
CT, blood routine, various indicators such as transaminase are abnormal, and immune-related cells are very much fewer, white blood cells almost to 0.
第二天，疾控的人过来，从喉咙取样做“咽拭子检查”。
The next day, the disease controller came over and took a sample from his throat for a "swabbing test."
晚上结果就出来了，没有意外，阳性。
The results came out at night. No accidents. Positive.
我确诊了。
I got a diagnosis.
亲戚打电话通知我时，语气很沉重。
My tone was heavy when my relatives called to tell me.
那会儿我反而淡定了，说没事，我早就知道了。
At that point, I calmed down and said it was okay. I already knew.
难受是慢慢到来的。
The pain is slow to come.
治疗就是输液，各种各样的液，对症下药，抗炎、护肝。
Treatment is infusion, a variety of fluids, the right medicine, anti-inflammatory, liver care.
但我知道，免疫系统出现问题，药物治疗几乎都是辅助作用，更要依赖自己的身体和信念。
But I know that when the immune system is compromised, medication is almost always supportive, relying more on one's body and beliefs.
配合医生是一方面，心态放松是一方面。
Working with a doctor is one thing; relaxing is another.
那几天我就一点点想办法，用身边的食物、水去调整身体的不适。
That few days I think a little bit, with the food around me, water to adjust to the discomfort.
得了这个病，人会特别想喝水。
With this disease, people want to drink water very much.
三四百毫升一杯，我能喝十杯，没有尿意，但上了厕所才发现，其实膀胱快不行了，说明它的敏感度降低了。
Three or four hundred milliliters a cup, I can drink ten, no urine, but when I go to the toilet, I realize that the bladder is almost dead, which means it is less sensitive.
发病后没有食欲，一天下来喝一盒牛奶，吃两三个鸡蛋，一个我们当地的烧饼。
After the onset of appetite, drink a box of milk, eat two or three eggs, a local pancake.
牛奶得温热一下，一口一口慢慢喝。
The milk has to be warmed up and eaten slowly.
不要吃太多，以免体温升高，也不要吃太少，以免低血糖。
Do not eat too much, lest the body temperature rise, also do not eat too little, lest hypoglycemia.
我是全院第一个病人，医生们也没有经验。
I was the first patient in the hospital and the doctors were inexperienced.
很多时候我就自己在网上搜治疗手段，和他们交流。
A lot of times I find myself searching and talking to them on the Internet.
比如，看到治疗HIV的某种药物有效，我请教的教授也觉得靠谱，就和他们说。
For example, seeing that a drug to treat HIV is effective, the professor I consulted felt confident enough to talk to them.
两个小时后，县疾控主任就把药物调过来了。
Two hours later, the county CDC director brought in the drugs.
后来我知道，我住进来那天，县里很紧张，如临大敌，开了紧急大会，布置任务，包括调用各种物资、药物，来保障我们。
Later I knew that the day I came in, the county was very nervous, like an enemy, opened an emergency conference, the deployment of tasks, including the mobilization of various supplies, drugs, to protect us.
住院第二天，大年三十，本命年最后一天，本来以为过了这天，水逆就会结束，一切都会好起来，但那天晚上12点，我突然感觉自己呼吸有点无力。
The next day I was in hospital, about thirty years ago, the last day of my life. I thought that day would be over and everything would be all right.
我摸了自己的心跳，发现弱了下来，再摸了颈动脉，几乎感受不到跳动，有声音也是沙沙沙，不是正常人的咚咚咚。
I touched his heartbeat, found the weak down, touch the carotid artery, almost no beat, there is a voice is rustling, not normal Dongdong Dong.
我一下子反应起来，自己缺氧了，拼命呼吸，同时让自己冷静下来——紧张会更缺氧，呼叫护士送氧气瓶，吸着氧气大口地呼吸，身体胸廓努力地配合、起伏。
I suddenly responded, breathing desperately, and calming down - nervous, more hypoxic, calling for a nurse to deliver oxygen bottles, breathing heavily with oxygen, and struggling to fit in and out of the chest.
我告诉自己，这时候再艰难都不能睡着，否则可能会忘了自主呼吸。
I told myself I couldn't fall asleep at this point, or I might have forgotten to breathe on my own.
不能躺下，否则会压迫肺腑，所以始终斜靠着，腿和身子保持100度左右。
Can not lie down, otherwise will oppress the viscera, so always recline, legs and body around 100 degrees.
医学上，我经历的呼吸窘迫，是这次疫情的重症表现之一。
Medically, the respiratory distress I experienced was one of the most serious manifestations of the epidemic.
平常人捏着鼻子也呼吸困难，但呼吸窘迫的时候，我都想不起来去呼吸了。
Ordinary people pinch their noses and find it difficult to breathe, but when I feel short of breath, I can't even remember to breathe.
我求救了医生，告诉他们随时准备抢救，但如果没抢救过来，器官衰竭了，就尽早放弃，不要再浪费医疗资源。
I called the doctor, told them to be ready to rescue, but if the rescue did not come, organ failure, give up as soon as possible, do not waste medical resources.
医生来之前，我拼命吸氧，努力活动四肢，想让它们热起来，同时录了临终视频。
Before the doctor arrived, I sucked in oxygen, tried to stretch my limbs, tried to warm them up, and recorded an end-of-life video.
我想要和大家有个告别，断断续续录了二十分钟。
I want to say good-bye to you all for 20 minutes on and off.
医生半夜两三点到了，鼓励我，让我挺住，可是我的手脚是冰的，麻木的，脸色发白，听力很弱，说话都没有任何力气。
The doctor arrived in the middle of the night at two or three o'clock to encourage me and hold me up, but my hands and feet were icy, numb, pale, hard of hearing, and powerless to speak.
两三个小时后，手脚才热了起来，整个人不再是濒死状态，再后来发烧近39度，但我想这是好事，免疫系统终于又开始战斗了。
It took two or three hours for the hands and feet to warm up, the body to stop dying, and then a fever of nearly 39 degrees, but I think it was a good thing, the immune system finally began to fight again.
后来我吸着氧气，让自己平静，不敢入睡，虽然继续肌肉酸痛，但是存在即合理——如果不酸痛，我睡过去，忘了呼吸怎么办。
Then I sucked on oxygen, calmed myself down, and dared not fall asleep, and though my muscles ached, it was reasonable to exist - if it didn't hurt, I would sleep and forget what to do with my breath.
恍惚中挨到了早上，我明显感觉到自己度过了一劫，脱离氧气，自主呼吸逐渐恢复。
Trance in the middle of the morning, I obviously felt that I had spent a robbed, out of oxygen, breathing gradually recovered.
新型冠状病毒肺炎治疗中。
The treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia.
受访者供图我就想好好洗个澡第三天，护士送来了医院饭菜，但是忘拿筷子了，我把牛奶的吸管当筷子，只有体验过才知道这多难。
On the third day, the nurse delivered the hospital meals, but forgot to take the chopsticks. I used the milk straw as a chopstick.
这天情况好了很多。
It was a much better day.
体温一度恢复到36.5，吃过饭，体温又慢慢升高，但也顶多38度，没之前那么高，肌肉没之前那么酸痛。
At one point, the body temperature returned to 36.5. After eating, the temperature rose slowly, but it was 38 degrees, not as high as before, and the muscles were not as sore as before.
这天我爸妈、我哥也来了医院。
That day my parents, my brother also came to the hospital.
他们前一天都发烧了，我让他们再观察一天，但他们挨不住都过来了。
They had a fever the previous day, and I told them to observe it for another day, but they couldn't get over it.
只有我妈确诊了，住进医院隔离。
It's just my mom's diagnosis. Stay in the hospital.
我爸和我哥估计抵抗力好，病毒量小，检测不出来，都回家隔离了。
My father and my brother estimated that resistance is good, virus quantity is small, cannot detect come out, all went home to isolate.
我每天和他们通个电话，告诉他们自己很好。
I called them every day and told them I was fine.
来往的七大姑、八大姨也都在家隔离了，自己在家里做饭。
The seven sisters-in-law and the eight aunts were also isolated at home and cooked their own meals.
医院给我标的是“轻症”。
The hospital gave me the sign of "light illness."
但我妈才是真的轻症，除了刚开始发烧，后来几乎就没有症状。
But my mother was really a mild case, except that she had a fever at first and then had almost no symptoms.
我俩搬到了一间，我就让她多做深呼吸，按时吃饭，每天跳广场舞，锻炼身体。
When we moved to one room, I told her to breathe more, eat regularly, dance in the square every day and exercise.
我不想让她老记着这个事。
I don't want her to keep this in mind.
那几天和同学、朋友沟通，发现大家都很害怕，不知道疫情何时控制住，我一开始也怕，但经历过最危险时刻后，不怕了。
In those days and students, friends to communicate, found that we are very afraid, do not know when the outbreak was under control, I was afraid at first, but experienced the most dangerous moment, not afraid.
既然想活着，就要平静面对这一切。
If you want to live, you have to face it calmly.
我的状态也越来越好。
I'm getting better and better.
第四天早上7点多，体温37度。
Day 4 more than 7 am, temperature 37 degrees.
护士来抽血，我说我好了，她说我很强大，长得真好看。
The nurse came to take the blood and I said I was OK. She said I was strong and beautiful.
听了这话真的特别感动，想哭。
Hearing this, I was really moved and wanted to cry.
那时我一周多没洗澡，刚经历完与疾病的一场厮杀，狼狈不堪。
I hadn't bathed for more than a week and had just gone through a fight with illness and was in a panic.
说实话，以前我不太关注时事，但现在很关注这场疫情。
To be honest, I didn't pay much attention to current affairs before, but now I'm concerned about this epidemic.
不过，很多新闻我都不太相信了，除非是钟南山说的，他清楚疫情发展，也不会撒谎。
However, I don't believe much of the news, unless Zhong Nan-shan said, he knows the spread of the epidemic and won't lie.
2月1日，前一晚新闻说双黄连可以抑制病毒，我妈说，你看双黄连有效，我说，这你都信，不如睡觉吧。
February 1, the evening before the news that Shuanghuanglian can suppress the virus, my mother said, you see Shuanghuanglian effective, I said, you believe that it is better to sleep.
她说专家都说了，我说你听专家的还是听你闺女的。
She said the experts said, I said you listen to experts or listen to your daughter.
她就觉得我理论学太多了，还是不相信我。
She just thought I was learning too much theory and still didn't believe me.
后来我姨打来电话，跟我妈说买不到了，都卖完了。
Then my aunt called and told my mother she couldn't buy it. It was sold out.
照理说她应该隔离的，但不知道为什么偷偷跑出去买双黄连了。
She was supposed to be quarantined, but somehow managed to sneak out and buy the Couple Couple.
我就接过电话，告诉她双黄连那么苦，喝它干嘛啊，喝水不好吗。
I took the phone, told her Shuang Huanglian so bitter, drink it why ah, drinking water is not good.
我的亲身体验是，喝水都有效。
My own experience is that drinking water works.
但也不能刷太多新闻，否则会越看越恐惧，“负反馈效应”非常明显。
But do not brush too much news, otherwise you will see more fear, "negative feedback effect" is very obvious.
现在我觉得这个病本身没那么可怕，有时也需要靠意志力战胜。
Now I think the disease itself is not so terrible, sometimes need to rely on willpower to overcome.
我在朋友圈告诉大家可以练习平静的深呼吸，保持淡定，我能挺过来，其他人也可以。
I told everyone in my circle of friends that I could practice deep, quiet breathing, keep calm, I could make it, and others could do it.
最近医生又给我做了CT，结果很好，肺部炎症在吸收，几乎没啥了。
Recently the doctor gave me a CT, the result is very good, lung inflammation is absorbing, almost nothing.
但接下去还要隔离一段时间，医生怕我以后免疫力还是不行，这几天都在打免疫球蛋白。
But the next period of isolation, the doctor is afraid of my immunity or not, these days are playing immunoglobulin.
算上别的药，我一天要输20小时，十几瓶液，左右手都肿了，合不上拳头，抬不起胳膊。
I lose 20 hours a day, plus any other medicine, a dozen bottles of fluid, swollen left and right hands, no fists, no arms.
不过，经历过濒死状态，能躺着输液已经是很舒服的事了。
However, having experienced a near-death condition, it is comfortable to be able to lie down with an infusion.
进医院后，我就一直在关注治愈病例，从发病到出院，病程在十四天左右，最新版的诊疗方案说，两次核酸检验阴性能出院。
Since entering the hospital, I have been focusing on curing cases, from onset to discharge, lasting about 14 days, and the latest version of the protocol says that two negative nucleic acid tests can be discharged.
我估计会很快治愈。
I expect it to heal soon.
全程治疗没用到激素，加上现在身体没有不舒服，不会有后遗症。
The whole treatment did not use hormones, plus the body is not uncomfortable, will not have sequelae.
不用担心这个。
Don't worry about that.
跟很多人一样，我只是得了一场病而已。
Like a lot of people, I just got sick.
要感谢医生护士，相比我，他们才是拼尽全力的战士。
Thanks to the doctors and nurses, they are the best fighters in the world.
我就是个普通人。
I'm just a normal guy.
未来，我也想给公共卫生做贡献。
In the future, I also want to contribute to public health.
动物疾病防控，活禽市场交易，这些都需要改进。
Animal disease control and trading in live poultry markets need to be improved.
但现在，我就想好好洗个澡。
But right now, I just want to take a shower.
李霖琳生活照。
LiLin Lin's life picture.
受访者供图后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Respondents provided RR & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从确诊到康复，一个医学研究生的生死10天。
From diagnosis to rehabilitation, a medical graduate student lives and dies for 10 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "从确诊到康复，一个医学研究生的生死10天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a medical graduate from diagnosis to rehabilitation.
var msg_desc = "我的亲身体验是，喝水都有效。
var msg _ desc = & quot; my personal experience is that drinking water works.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
