钟南山的春节。
Spring Festival in Zhong Nan Shan.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
文|王丹妮 编辑|林鹏话筒从车上一直跟到了钟南山的会议现场，镜头摇摇晃晃，他一路上都在讲话。
Ren Peng & amp; P Lin's microphone wobbled from the car to the meeting at Zhong Nan Shan, where he spoke all the way.
这是2月3日央视对疫情最新进展的采访，工作人员拦了几次，最终都没能把记者拦下。
This is February 3 CCTV to the latest progress of the epidemic interview, staff stopped several times, ultimately failed to stop the reporters.
这个春节，民众想从这位84岁院士口中获得的信息太多了——大到疫情拐点的预测，小到口罩应该怎么戴，记者们肩负着这些期望，一次次把他围住。
This Spring Festival, people want to get too much information from the 84-year-old academician - from predictions of the inflection point of the epidemic to how small masks should be worn, and journalists have been around him over and over again.
1月20日，呼吸病学专家钟南山被任命为国家卫健委高级别专家组组长，参与到此次新冠肺炎防控工作中。
On January 20, Zhong Nan Shan, a cardiologist, was appointed head of the high-level group of experts of the State Sanitary Commission to participate in the prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
当晚，他在央视访谈中披露，发现14名医务人员感染，直言“有明确的人传人现象”。
In an interview with CCTV that evening, he revealed that 14 medical personnel had been infected, bluntly saying "there is a clear human-to-human phenomenon."
像在“非典”中的发言一样，这次发言一改此前“有限人传人”的专家论断，全国防控由此加强。
As in the case of SARS, national control has been strengthened by the shift from the previous "limited human-to-human" approach.
“非典”结束，钟南山的名字随着疫情的结束淡出公众视野。
When SARS ended, Zhong Nan Shan's name faded from public view as the outbreak ended.
17年后，当与SARS相似度极高的病毒再次出现在人类的肺部，他又站在了熟悉的位置上。
Seventeen years later, when the SARS-like virus reappeared in the human lungs, he was in a familiar position.
有人把他的头像画成漫画宣传预防策略，还有人编了段子：“过年在家一动不动，钟南山说动再动”。
His avatar was painted as a cartoon to promote prevention strategies, and a paragraph was written: "The New Year at home motionless, Zhong Nan Shan said move again."
谣言也包围了他，一则“白岩松对话钟南山”的假消息被疯传了上千万次，在腾讯新闻较真平台总结的“新型冠状病毒十大谣言榜”上，与钟南山相关的谣言，占到 4 条。
Rumors also surrounded him, a "dialogue Zhong Nan Shan Bai Yongsong dialogue" false news has been crazy about 10 million times, in Tencent news summary of the "new coronavirus list of the top 10 rumors," Zhong Nan Shan-related rumors, accounted for four.
他害怕被神化，多次在采访中声明，“我不过是一个看病的大夫。
Afraid of being deified, he repeatedly declared in interviews, "I'm just a doctor.
”1月20日，钟南山接受央视《新闻1+1》采访，指出“有明确的人传人现象”。
In an interview with CCTV's "News 1 + 1," Zhong Nan-shan said on January 20 that "there is a clear human-to-human phenomenon."
图片源自节目截图。
Picture taken from the screenshot.
疫情降临时_钟南山太忙了。
Zhong Nan Shan was too busy when the outbreak came.
这是广州一位专访过钟南山的记者对他最深的印象。
This is a reporter who interviewed Zhong Nan Shan in Guangzhou who impressed him most.
“非典”十周年时，他曾早早约访，采访提纲发过去，又专门跑去广州呼吸疾病研究所堵截，在钟南山的办公室外等到睡着，最后仍被婉拒。
On the 10th anniversary of SARS, he made an early interview, sent the outline to the Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Diseases to intercept, outside the office of Zhong Nan Shan until he fell asleep, was finally declined.
“马上就要参加一个病例讨论，下午类似的讨论有两个……”80岁以后，他每周会花一个下午亲自为患者看病，还要组织、参与病例讨论，做研究，更有数不清的会议和访问活动。
"There's going to be a case discussion right away, two similar discussions in the afternoon..." After age 80, he spends one afternoon a week personally attending patients, organizing, participating in case discussions, doing research, and having countless meetings and visits.
当他又一次频繁出现在媒体的镜头里，17年后，一场新的疫情出现了。
Seventeen years later, a new outbreak appeared when he was once again in the media spotlight.
“我总的看法，就是没有特殊的情况，不要去武汉。
"My general opinion is that there are no special circumstances, do not go to Wuhan.
”但在1月18日傍晚，一张钟南山乘火车去武汉的照片在网上刷屏，人们称他为“逆行者”。
But on the evening of January 18, a photograph of Zhong Nan Shan travelling to Wuhan by train was filmed online, and people called him "The Reverse Walker."
那一天，刚刚在广东省卫健委开完会的他接到通知，即刻赶往武汉。
On that day, just after the meeting of the Guangdong Wei Jiangheng committee, he was informed, immediately rushed to Wuhan.
广州到武汉的航班全部售罄，他挤上傍晚五点开往武汉的高铁，被安排在餐车一角。
All flights from Guangzhou to Wuhan were sold out, so he packed the 5 p. m. high-speed train to Wuhan and was placed in a corner of the dining car.
电脑、文件和一副黄色镜片的眼镜摊在窄小的桌面上，仰着靠背，他闭目休息。
Computers, files and a pair of yellow glasses were spread out on the narrow table, back to back, and he closed his eyes.
1月18日傍晚，钟南山乘坐高铁前往武汉实地调研。
On the evening of January 18, Zhong Nan Shan took the high-speed railway to Wuhan for field investigation.
图片源自《广州日报》。
Photo taken from Guangzhou Daily.
随后半个多月，钟南山进入了连轴转的状态。
More than half a month later, Zhong Nan Shan entered the state of coupling.
1月19日，他在研讨会后前往武汉市金银潭医院和武汉市疾控中心实地调研；下午五点，从武汉赶往北京，赴国家卫健委开会至凌晨；1月20日，全国电视电话会议、新闻发布会、媒体直播连线等行程填满了他的一天；1月21日，他回到广州，继续参加各种新闻发布会和工作研讨会，接下来，钟南山继续在国务院会议上提建议，在车上接受媒体采访，在机场大厅外与美国教授维尔特·伊恩·利普金——被Discover杂志誉为“世界上最知名的病毒猎手”——探讨疫情。
On January 19, he visited the Jintan Hospital in Wuhan and the CDC in Wuhan City after the symposium. At 5 p.m., he traveled from Wuhan to Beijing to attend the National Fitness and Health Commission until early morning.
当疫情拐点、春运返程的影响、特效药等争议问题出现时，他的声音也都未缺席。
When the inflection point of the epidemic, the impact of the return journey, specific drugs and other controversial issues, his voice was not absent.
1月24日，农历大年三十，各地都笼罩在疫情的阴云里，年味索然。
January 24, the Chinese New Year's Eve, all over the clouds in the epidemic situation, the annualized.
钟南山在广州医科大学附属第一医院新住院大楼23 楼负压病房区接受记者采访，他带着口罩，眼神疲惫，白大褂里边穿的，是六天前连夜奔赴武汉时的那套衣服。
Zhong Nan Shan was interviewed by reporters in the negative pressure ward area on the 23rd floor of the new in-patient building of Guangzhou Medical University's First Hospital. He wore a mask, tired eyes and white coat, the same suit he had on during his night trip to Wuhan six days ago.
时间退回到十七年前，1月31日除夕当天，钟南山也守在医院。
Seventeen years ago, on New Year's Eve on January 31, Zhong Nan Shan was also in the hospital.
广州呼吸疾病研究所党支部书记程东海对媒体回忆，当晚，钟南山根据可能发生的大规模感染，连夜组建隔离病房，取消一线人员休假，同时采购物资。
Zhong Nan Shan set up isolation wards overnight, canceled frontline staff vacations and procured supplies based on possible mass infections, Cheng Donghai, secretary of the Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Institute, told reporters.
投建3 天的呼吸危重症监护中心整建制投入，将优质资源全部投入了“非典”防治工作。
Construction of a 3-day respiratory critical care center full establishment input, the quality of resources into the "SARS" prevention and treatment work.
当时的广州市民，和如今的武汉市民一样，并未得知这些危险的讯号。
The citizens of Guangzhou at that time, like the citizens of Wuhan today, were not aware of these dangerous signals.
普通人仍像往常一样上下班，期待着新年的到来。
Ordinary people still commute as usual, looking forward to the New Year.
没有人想到，一场可怕的疫情即将由他们生活的城市蔓延到全国、全球。
No one thought that a terrible epidemic would soon spread from the cities they lived in to the national and global levels.
17年过去，人们对他的信任没有改变。
Seventeen years on, confidence in him has not changed.
自媒体翻出他69岁时打篮球的照片，称赞他仍然拥有强健的身体。
He has been praised for his fitness since the media showed him playing basketball at the age of 69.
事实上，鲜有人知道，“非典”后，因为透支得厉害，他的身体一直出状况：2004年得了心肌梗塞，做手术装了支架；2007年出现心房纤颤，逼得他告别篮球场；2008年得了甲状腺炎，短短两个月瘦了10斤；2009年又做了鼻窦手术。
In fact, few people know that after SARS, suffering from a severe overdraft, he suffered from cardiac arrest in 2004, surgery with a scaffold, atrial fibrillation in 2007, which forced him to bid farewell to the basketball court, thyroiditis in 2008, which caused him to lose 10 pounds in just two months, and sinus surgery in 2009.
但是也有一些东西没有改变。
But there are things that have not changed.
“非典”十周年时，他在接受采访时说，“我还是原来那个钟南山，不唯书、不唯上，不唯权，只唯实。
"I am still the same Zhong Nan Shan," he said in an interview on the 10th anniversary of SARS.
”“捡难的事做”_在成为2020年开年的热点人物之前，钟南山的一项重要工作是研究和宣传慢阻肺的预防和治疗。
Before becoming a hot topic for 2020, one of Zhong Nan Shan's major tasks is to research and promote the prevention and treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
与媒体聚光灯下抗击疫情的勇士不同，这是一项需要埋头在社区一线的工作，而且收效缓慢。
Unlike the warriors fighting the epidemic in the spotlight, it is a task that needs to be done on the front lines of the community, and with slow results.
慢阻肺是“慢性阻塞性肺疾病”的简称，和糖尿病、冠心病、高血压一样，是四大慢性病之一，中国的患者有1亿——占全球的三分之一。
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the acronym for "chronic obstructive pulmonary disease," is one of the top four chronic diseases, along with diabetes, coronary heart disease, and high blood pressure, with 100 million patients in China - one-third of the world's total.
“需要和社区、街坊联动，去动员患者，你该吃药了。
"You need to connect with your community, your neighborhoods, to mobilize people, you need to take your medicine.
”钟南山说，慢阻肺被发现的时候大多已经是中晚期，而且没有很好的治疗手段，只能提前筛查、预防。
Zhong Nan-shan said the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was mostly found in the middle and late stages, and there was no good treatment but early screening and prevention.
但在基层开展肺功能的普查并不被同行看好，连美国专家委员会的研究者都说，在没有症状的人群里，没有必要筛查。
But grass-roots lung function surveys are not as popular as their peers, and even researchers at the US Council of Experts say screening is not necessary in asymptomatic populations.
等他真正去做了，才发现，之所以国际上一直没人做，是因为要动员的人很多，“难度很大”。
When he did, he found that the reason why there has been no international action, because to mobilize a large number of people, "very difficult."
他推掉很多礼节性的访问，去跟社区医院联合做双盲研究。
He pushed off many courtesy visits to do double-blind research in conjunction with the community hospital.
工作很琐碎，改善社区空气质量、说服参与者改变烹饪方式，减少柴火使用。
Work is trivial, improving community air quality, persuading participants to change cooking styles and reduce firewood use.
两年后开盲，成果显著，他们第一次从流行病学证实生物燃料可引起慢阻肺，第一次发现两种老药用于预防慢阻肺急性发作安全有效，相关成果被写进世卫组织编撰的新版慢阻肺全球防治指南。
After two years of blindness, the results were remarkable. For the first time, they epidemiological confirmed that biofuels could cause chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. For the first time, two older drugs were found to be safe and effective in preventing acute COPD attacks.
钟南山兄妹与父母的合影。
A photo of Zhong Nan Shan brothers and sisters with their parents.
图片源自网络。
Pictures come from the Web.
他把这种研究的热情归为家庭的影响。
He attributed the enthusiasm of the research to the influence of the family.
“我们家都是讲医疗，讲学术上的追求”，1936年，钟南山出生于医生之家——父亲钟世藩是我国著名的儿科医学专家，母亲廖月琴是广东省肿瘤医院的创始人之一。
In 1936, Zhong Nan Shan was born in the family of doctors-father Shi-fan Zhong Shi-fan, a famous expert in pediatric medicine in our country, and Liao Yueqin, one of the founders of the Guangdong Cancer Hospital.
小家之外，他母亲所在的廖家是厦门鼓浪屿上的名门，钟南山的舅舅和舅妈也都是当地名医。
In addition to his mother's family, Liao family in Xiamen Gulangyu famous door, Zhong Nan Shan's uncle and aunt are also well-known local doctors.
父亲钟世藩1930年从北京协和医学院毕业后，又去美国纽约州立大学留学，拿到博士学位，是当时中国为数不多的医学博士之一。
His father, Zhong Shifan, graduated from Beijing Concorde Medical School in 1930 and went to New York State University to receive a PhD, one of the few medical doctors in China at the time.
钟南山的童年和父亲自费买来研究乙型脑炎病毒的小白鼠相伴，父亲早早在他心中树立了治病救人的医者形象。
Zhong Nan Shan's childhood and his father's self-funded purchase of a study of the virus B mice accompanied by his father early in his heart set up a medical treatment to save people's image.
但与父亲一路深造、长期在一线做研究不同，钟南山的从医路起初并不顺利，他24岁即从北京医学院（现北京大学医学部）毕业，因为时代原因，直到35岁才在爱人的帮助下成为一名医生。
But unlike his father, who studied all the way to the frontline for a long time, Zhong Nan Shan's career as a doctor didn't go smoothly until he graduated from Beijing Medical School (now Beijing University Medical Department) at the age of 24.
从1960年到1970年的十年间，他干过很多工作：先是留校当辅导员，后来去了农村，当过工人、校报编辑，还干过一年多的文艺宣传队。
Between 1960 and 1970, he did a lot of work: first as a tutor, then in the countryside, as a worker, editor of a school newspaper, and for more than a year as an art and literature advocate.
1971年，广州医学院第一附属医院接收了他，在那里他成为一名急诊科医生。
In 1971, he was admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical School, where he became an emergency doctor.
那时候，他觉得“人生苦短”，一心扑在工作上，曾经8个月瘦了12公斤。
At that time, he felt that "life is too short," his heart devoted to work, once eight months lost 12 kilograms.
钟南山成为医生的1970年代，中国流行慢性支气管炎。
Zhong Nan Shan became a doctor in the 1970s when chronic bronchitis was prevalent in China.
国家号召“开展群防群治”，但是医生都知道，“治咳不治喘，治喘不露脸”——没有医院能真正治好慢性支气管炎，做这个工作根本不出成绩。
The state has called for "crowd control," but doctors know that there is no hospital that can really cure chronic bronchitis and do it without success.
他回家征求父亲的意见。
He went home and asked his father for advice.
钟世藩说，“捡难的事做未必是坏事。
He said, "It is not necessarily a bad thing to do what is difficult.
”在那之后，钟南山去了慢性支气管炎防治小组，花了五年时间，他与同行合作，写下了论文《中西医结合分型诊断和治疗慢性气管炎》。
After that, Zhong Nan Shan went to the Chronic Bronchitis Prevention and Control Group, and spent five years working with his peers to write a paper on "Combining Type Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Bronchitis in Chinese and Western Medicine."
这篇获得全国科学大会成果一等奖的论文，为他赢得首批国家公派留学机会奠定了基础。
This paper, which won the first prize for the achievements of the National Science Congress, laid the foundation for him to win the first opportunity to study abroad.
钟南山一直记得，1979年，那趟开往英国的火车走了九天，列车穿越苏联、波兰、德国、荷兰等国到达伦敦，出发那天他刚好43岁。
Zhong always remembered that in 1979, nine days after the British train arrived in London through the Soviet Union, Poland, Germany and the Netherlands, he was just 43 years old.
彼时，距离他成为顶尖的呼吸病学专家还有很长的路要走。
At the time, he was still a long way from becoming a top cardiologist.
鱼刺_2月7日，前往广东省卫健委出席会议的钟南山院士再次被媒体拦截。
Stinger _ February 7, the Guangdong Wei Bodyguard attended the meeting of academician Zhong Nan Shan was again intercepted by the media.
短短几分钟的采访，全是预警：“没有继续的新增病例明显增高，这是个好事。
In just a few minutes of interviews, it was all a warning: "It is good that there has been a marked increase in new cases that have not continued."
但是这是不是意味着拐点就来了呢？言之过早。
But does this mean that the inflection point is coming? It is too early to say.
”他提醒大家不要只关注出院病例或者死亡病例，“出院的话大家标准不一样，最关键的是新增病例。
He cautioned against focusing only on discharges or deaths: "People are not discharged by the same standards, the most important being new cases.
”当对医生请战上前线的赞美充斥网络时，他特别提醒，“各个地方的医护人员应该有轮休制度，因为过度疲劳更容易被感染。
When praise for doctors on the front lines flooded the Internet, he cautioned, "Health-care workers everywhere should have a rotation system, as overwork is more likely to become infected.
”严谨不是与生俱来的，他付出过代价。
"Rigour is not innate, he has paid the price.
刚进急诊科当医生时，钟南山误诊了一名病人，因为分不清咳血和呕血，他诊断为结核病，把病人送进了传染病医院，但同行通过手术发现，病人出血是因为胃里扎了一根鱼刺。
When he entered the emergency department as a doctor, Zhong Nan Shan misdiagnosed a patient because he could not distinguish between hemoptysis and hematemesis. He diagnosed tuberculosis and sent the patient to an infectious disease hospital.
这根“鱼刺”刺进了他的职业准则，甚至成为性格的一部分。
This "Stinger" stuck in his professional code and even became a part of his character.
2003年，记者发布会后，钟南山遭到记者围堵。
In 2003, after the press conference, Zhong Nan Shan was blocked by journalists.
图片源自网络。
Pictures come from the Web.
最为人所知的，便是17年前，那场为世界卫生组织官员和中外记者举办的发布会。
The best-known event was the one held 17 years ago for World Health Organization officials and Chinese and foreign journalists.
当时，权威说法是“非典”“疫情已经得到控制”，有关部门也提前叮嘱他，“不要讲太多”。
At the time, authorities said SARS "has been brought under control," and the authorities told him in advance, "don't talk too much."
在此之前，钟南山在父亲的坟前站了很久，想起自己从小受到的教诲，“讲实话、讲真话”。
Before that, Zhong Nan Shan in front of his father's grave for a long time, think of his childhood education, "tell the truth, tell the truth.
当记者在现场追问时，钟南山大声地说出，“现在病原不知道，怎么预防不清楚，怎么治疗也还没有很好的办法，病情还在传染，怎么能说是控制了？我们顶多叫遏制，不叫控制！连医护人员的防护都还没有到位。
When the reporter asked in the scene, Zhong Nan Shan loudly said, "Now the pathogen does not know, how to prevent unclear, how to treat is not a good way, the disease is still infectious, how can we say control? We call containment at best, not control! Even the protection of medical personnel is not in place.
”在后来的《荒废集》中，陈丹青将他当时的状态形容为“平心静气咬牙切齿”。
In a later episode, Chen described his condition as one of "quiet gnashing of teeth."
钟南山在其后的采访中多次提到父亲的影响。
In a subsequent interview, Zhong Nan Shan repeatedly mentioned the influence of his father.
“文革”时父亲写儿科鉴别诊断的书，让他帮忙改一下序言。
During the Cultural Revolution, my father wrote a book on pediatric differential diagnosis and asked him to help revise the preface.
他说你这样写，跟不上形势，序言里都没有主席语录。
He said that you could not keep up with the situation by writing like that, and there was no Chair's quotation in the preamble.
父亲回了一句：“加了干什么？”在钟南山的记忆里，父亲很少说话，“但他说话都是有证据的。
The father replied, "What did you add?" In Zhong Nan Shan's memory, the father said very little, "but he spoke with proof.
”他跟父亲一起出诊，遇到一个尿血的孩子，钟南山说：“这应该是结核。
When he went out with his father for a visit, he met a child with blood in his urine, which Zhong Nan-shan said.
”钟世藩反问，“你怎么知道他是结核？尿血可能是结核，也可能是膀胱炎，还可能是其他炎症，你凭什么说他是结核？”这些经历在从医之初便帮助他构建了坚固的职业准则，“医者人命，没有十足的证据，不可轻下判断。
How did you know he was a tuberculosis? Urine blood could be tuberculosis, cystitis, or other inflammation. "What makes you say he was a tuberculosis?
”2003年底，接受《三联生活周刊》采访时，钟南山将这一年称为“特殊的一年”。
In an interview with Triple Life Weekly in late 2003, Mr Zhong called it a "special year."
“我遇到的很多课题都是未和数，无章可循。
"Many of the issues I have come across are unreconciled and undisciplined.
时间也很特殊，一天我要做出几天的工作——要面对治疗的问题、学术上的问题，还要出文章，制订国家规划。
The time is also special, I have to work a few days a day - to face the problem of treatment, academic problems, but also to write articles and formulate a national plan.
这原本是要一星期完成的工作，变成了一天来完成。
What was meant to be a week's work became a day's work.
”他说，“我的思想遭遇也很特殊，从原来不太被重视，甚至遭到误解，到后来变成被关注的对象，甚至是众矢之的。
"I had a very special mental experience, too, from being undervalued and even misunderstood, to being the object of attention and even the target of public criticism.
”在高速发展的中国社会，信息爆炸中，他成了“真相”和“良心”的代名词。
In China's fast-growing society, he has become synonymous with "truth" and "conscience" in the explosion of information.
他一下子拥有了更多的身份：政协委员、人大代表、“感动中国年度人物”、中华医师学会会长……钟南山曾在政协医卫界会议上提出质疑，“现在药品名称这么多，我临床45年，有的药我都叫不出名字，这么多新药是怎么出来的？同一种药能有十几到几十个名字，往往是一个药品改个名，摇身一变成新药，’身价’立刻飙升。
"With so many drug names now, I can't name them for 45 years, how do so many new drugs come outThe same medicine can have a dozen or dozens of names, often a drug that has changed its name and become a new drug
这些批号是怎么拿到的？这些问题到底谁来把关？”在广东省“两会”上，他对官员的大话空话感到不满，“现在大家的发言，8分钟是肯定和表扬，2分钟是自我表扬，最后一分钟提点问题，而且还鼓掌，我一直想，鼓什么掌呢？”当人们还不了解雾霾时，他就在广州的论坛上批评空气污染的现象，多次呼吁检测公布PM2.5数值，并在2013年全国两会上提出：“灰霾与肺癌有极大的关系”。
"At the NPC and CPPCC in Guangdong Province, he was dissatisfied with officials' empty words." Now, eight minutes of speeches, eight minutes of self-praise, two minutes of self-praise, last-minute questions and applause.
钟南山感觉自己“好像专门喜欢跟谁较劲”，直言不讳招致质疑，他认为自己“不管走到哪儿，都不太受欢迎。
Mr Zhong, feeling that he "seemed to have a special liking for someone" and was outspoken, thought he was "unpopular wherever he went."
”他解释过这种直言的心理。
He explained the psychology of this outspokenness.
非典时，央视《面对面》的记者王志曾问他：为什么反对衣原体的说法？这在当时是一个很权威的声音。
When SARS, CCTV "Face to Face" reporter Wang Zhi asked him: Why against chlamydia? It was a very authoritative voice at the time.
“我们应该首先尊重事实，而不是尊重权威。
"We should respect facts first, not authority.
”钟南山说，历史证明，权威的假话并不能带来平静。
Mr Zhong says history has proved that false statements of authority do not bring peace.
病毒也没有那么高的觉悟。
The virus is not as aware as it is.
1月28日，钟南山在新华社的专访中流泪。
Zhong Nan-shan wept in an interview with Xinhua News Agency on January 28.
图片源自新华社。
Picture taken from Xinhua.
害怕被神化_“非典”之后的十七年，钟南山致力于呼吸系统疾病的预防和治疗，并承担起突发公共卫生事件专家代言人的角色，向公众普及卫生知识，推动公共卫生事件应急体系建设。
Afraid of being deified after SARS 17 years, Zhong Nan Shan dedicated to the prevention and treatment of respiratory diseases, and assumed the role of expert spokesman of public health emergencies, to popularize health knowledge to the public, and to promote the construction of public health emergency response system.
在2009年甲型H1N1流感、2017年H7N9禽流感期间，医护人员和防疫机构通过“非典”后设立的几百个疾病监测点，迅速地找到病原并及时防控。
During the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic and the 2017 H7N9 avian influenza, health-care workers and epidemic prevention agencies quickly located and controlled the disease through hundreds of disease surveillance sites set up after SARS.
这些成就夯实了公众对钟南山的信任。
These achievements have strengthened the public's trust in Zhong Nan Shan.
一位好友评价道，“这种信任超越了学术范畴，使他的存在有了另一层含义，他打破了传统意义上某一领域的学术专家形象。
"This trust goes beyond the realm of scholarship to give his existence a different meaning," one friend remarked, "breaking the image of an academic expert in a field traditionally.
”这种信任的直接表现是，“谁出来说话可能大家都不信，但钟南山一出来说，大家就都信了。
"The direct expression of this trust is," Everyone may not believe who speaks, but as soon as Zhong Nan Shan comes out, everyone believes.
”在公众心中，这个年过八旬的老人几乎成为神一般的存在。
In the public mind, this 80-year-old man had become almost divine.
一位同事介绍，钟南山去北京、天津出差时，常被当成猴子一样围观，有些地方还像迎接明星一样铺起了红毯。
A colleague said that when Zhong Nan Shan went to Beijing and Tianjin on business, he was often surrounded by monkeys, and some places even put up red carpets like stars.
广东省以他为原型拍了个影片，但拍摄者连他本人都没见过。
Guangdong Province has made a film based on him, but the filmmaker has never seen him in person.
甚至连钟南山的雕像都出来了，“可是在哪儿摆就成了问题，总不至于在人家还活着就摆上个塑像吧？”钟南山害怕被神化，他多次在媒体采访中声明，“我不过是一个看病的大夫。
Even the statue of Zhong Nan Shan came out, "but where it becomes a problem to put on a statue while people are still alive?" Zhong Nan Shan, fearing deification, has repeatedly declared in media interviews, "I'm just a doctor.
”无论外界怎么看，他始终保持着自己生活和工作的节奏：每周三、周四查房问诊，下班后快走或跑步20到25分钟，接着花一个小时进行双杠、仰卧起坐、单杠等锻炼，每周三到四次。
Whatever the outside world may think, he has always maintained the pace of his life and work: conducting house searches on Wednesdays and Thursdays, walking or running for 20 to 25 minutes after work, and then spending an hour doing parallel bars, sit-ups, horizontal bars, etc., three to four times a week.
每周五18:00到20:30是钟南山固定的篮球时间，但做完心脏支架手术后，他不太能做对抗性运动，这一项日程才被搁置。
Friday from 18: 00 to 20: 30 is Zhong Nan Shan fixed basketball time, but after doing cardiac stent surgery, he is not very able to do antagonistic sports, the agenda was put on hold.
他还在不断拒绝一些非学术的访问。
He has also continued to refuse some non-academic visits.
在央视拍摄的纪录片里，同事一再劝他抽几分钟见几位到访者，“他们都很仰慕您，就礼节性见一见”，他少有地表现出不悦和无所适从：“我没什么好讲的……又是这样……”2020年的冬天，一场与十七年前相似的疫情降临，84岁的钟南山再次守在防控一线。
In a CCTV documentary, his colleagues repeatedly urged him to spend a few minutes with several visitors. "They all admire you and see you as a courtesy." He showed little displeasure and disorientation: "I have nothing to say... again..."
公众一边感叹“幸好还有钟南山”，一边忧虑，“不能只有一个钟南山”。
While sighing that "fortunately there is Zhong Nan Shan," the public worried, "there can not be only one Zhong Nan Shan."
感喟于他的高龄，媒体开始发出声音，相比于个人，更重要的是从此前的经验中吸取教训，以更成熟的公共卫生事件应急体系对抗疫病。
Marked by his old age, the media has begun to speak, and it is more important than individuals to learn from previous experiences and to use a more mature public health emergency system to fight the epidemic.
在2013年《南方都市报》关于“非典十年”的采访中，钟南山分享了那场“遭遇战”在传染病的防治和防控方面的启示：对不明原因的死亡，不再是死了就死了，要考虑死亡与传染的关系。
In an interview with the Southern Metropolis Daily in 2013 on the "Decade of SARS," Zhong Nan-shan shared the enlightenment of the encounter on the prevention and control of infectious diseases: death from unknown causes is no longer dead, but the relationship between death and infection should be taken into account.
花大力度把事情搞清，是对生命的敬畏。
It is a reverence for life to spend so much effort to get things right.
“如果再来一次‘非典’，广东能承受得住吗？”当记者问出这句话时，钟南山立即给出了肯定的回答。
"If the SARS again, Guangdong can afford it?" When asked by reporters, Zhong Nan Shan immediately gave a positive answer.
他说，“中国已经搭好了传染病防控、治疗、应对公共卫生事件的框架，再出现类似的情况就能(应对)。
"China has put in place a framework for the prevention and control of infectious diseases, treatment and response to public health events," he said.
这就是‘非典’带来的经验累积。
This is the accumulated experience of SARS.
另外一个经验教训，就是40多年来新发的传染病中，80%为人畜共患疾病。
Another lesson learned is that 80 per cent of new infections over the past 40 years are zoonotic.
这就说明不仅是人跟人需要和谐、人跟自然也需要和谐，这个和谐一旦破坏，就会受到教训。
This means that harmony is needed not only between man and man, but also between man and nature, and that when this harmony is broken, lessons are learned.
”（参考资料：《钟南山传》、《一个院士的生命历程——钟南山自述》、纪录片《敢医敢言》、《不老人生》、南方都市报《非典十年专访钟南山：不明原因死亡 不会再白死》等）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介王丹妮描述复杂性。
(Reference: Zhong Nan Shan Biography, The Life Course of an Academician: An Autobiography of Zhong Nan Shan, the documentary Dare to Speak, An Immortal Life, Southern Metropolis Daily's Ten-Year Interview with Zhong Nan Shan: Unexplained Death Will Not Die Again
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山的春节。
Spring Festival in Zhong Nan Shan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "钟南山的春节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Zhong Nan Shan & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我还是原来那个钟南山，不唯书、不唯上，不唯权，只唯实。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I was the same Zhong Nan Shan, with its books, its upper limit, its power, its only reality.
”";。
";;
title: '独家口述 |《我住进了全世界最拥挤的群租房》作者回家之后',。
Ritual & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '争吵中长大，争吵中死去 | 长沙最小植物人在医院的九年',。
Rise and file with AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
