武汉外卖员穿过人间烟火。
Wuhan take-out staff through fireworks.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：新型冠状病毒肺炎袭城之后，外卖员老计（化名）觉得武汉的马路变宽了，武汉人的面目也温柔下来。
Abstract: After the new coronavirus pneumonia, the old plan (alias) to take out that Wuhan road has become wider, Wuhan people's face has softened down.
大年初一，他给武昌医院的医生送了一餐鲍鱼饭。
On New Year's Day, he gave the doctor of Wuchang Hospital a meal of abalone rice.
才华街友谊大道路口的药店口罩卖完了，消毒液还有少量存货，他秒发微博，广而告之。
Talent Street Friendship Road junction drugstore masks sold out, disinfectant still a small stock, he seconds Weibo, widely announced.
路上一句普通的问候，抱着泰迪的阿姨在他身后大喊：“谢谢你啊！” 那句谢谢，他理解为整座城市在默默承受之下的一种发泄。
On the way a common greeting, holding Teddy's aunt behind him shouted: "Thank you!" Thank you, he understood the city in silent under a vent.
文丨叶雯编辑 丨陶若谷武汉人性子急，用外卖员老计的话说是“匪气重”。
Wuhan people are quick-tempered and take out, saying it is "gangster heavy".
以往春节热热闹闹，楚河汉街连电动车都堵死，超时了顾客生气，老计也跟着发飙，“不闯红灯啊，那早就饿死啦。
In the past Spring Festival bustle, Chu He Han Street even electric cars are blocked, time-out customers angry, old plan also with the outburst, "do not run a red light, that would have starved to death.
”今年街上冷清。
The streets were deserted this year.
老计的电动车跑得飞快，以前40分钟的任务，10多分钟就跑完了。
The old electric car ran fast, the previous 40-minute mission, more than 10 minutes to run out.
“封城”后送外卖，接跑腿代买的散单，他说是为了多挣点儿钱。
"Seal the city" to send out the delivery, pick up running errands to buy loose bills, he said to earn more money.
最近每天他都发微博，比如这条：“车胎气不够，修车铺没有一家开门，还好能买到打气筒！别问为啥美团骑手用饿了么的餐箱，我不想说；也别问为啥蓝色车身有个红色前挡，我还是不想说！”跑腿途中，路过螃蟹岬的盒马鲜生，他看到在那里工作的配送员，涌起一种“游击队对正规军的复杂情感”。
He has been posting tweets recently, like this one: "There's not enough air in the tires, no garage is open, no one can buy a pump! Don't ask why the rider is hungry in the diner, I don't want to say; why the blue body has a red front, I still don't want to say!
网友回复他，“你就是我们心中的正规军”。
The netizen replies him, "You are the regular army of our heart".
他记录的武汉城没有生离死别，而是到处烟火气。
The Wuhan city he records is not a dead end, but a smoke everywhere.
网友叫他小哥哥，实际他已经39岁，自称“外卖老哥”。
Net friend calls him little brother, actual he already 39 years old, call oneself "take out elder brother".
年轻时从家乡十堰考到武汉读书，他原本对这座城市印象不好，甚至讨厌，毕业后近20年漂泊在外，直到去年才回到湖北。
When he was young, he studied in Wuhan from his hometown of Shiyan. He had a bad impression of the city and even hated it.
年近不惑，对外乡人老计来说，他和武汉这座城市的连结，似乎在“封城”10天里找到了。
Nearly puzzled, to the foreigner old plan, he and Wuhan this city's connection, seems to have found in the "closed city" 10 days.
开门的热干面店铺。
Open the hot dry noodle shop.
以下是他的口述：麻蛋，烟熏了眼睛！我们送外卖的喜欢自嘲。
Here's his dictation: Stink, Smoked Eyes! We take away people who like to laugh at themselves.
中午吃饭拍照发群里，都是素菜，大家就调侃，“你都送外卖了还吃啥肉？” 最近也调侃，“你都送外卖了还怕病毒，怕死？”大年初一我接的第一单就是武汉大学中南医院的。
Noon meal, photograph group, are vegetarian dishes, everyone ridicule, "you are sent to take away to eat what meat?" Also recently ridiculed, "you sent to take away also afraid of the virus, afraid of death?"
进了电梯发现16楼是呼吸内科，心里咯噔一下：这就是我要去的楼层啊。
When you get into the elevator you'll find that on the 16th floor you think, This is the floor I'm going to.
我不摸医院的东西，按电梯都用车钥匙按。
I don't touch anything in the hospital. Press the keys to the elevator.
出了电梯门正对着RICU（呼吸重症监护病房），我不知道RICU是什么意思，只知道它左边是ICU，右边是普通病房。
Outside the elevator door facing the RICU (Respiratory Intensive Care Unit), I don't know what RICU means, except for the ICU on the left and the general ward on the right.
没什么病人，没有特别紧张，护士很镇定，没有拦我，给我指，这一餐是最里面那个床位的，我走进去放下餐就离开了。
No patients, no particular tension, the nurse was calm, did not stop me, I pointed out that this meal is the innermost bed, I went in, put down the meal and left.
过了一会儿，又看到一个武昌医院的单，中南医院都去了，也不差这一趟。
After a while, and saw a single Wuchang Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital to go, not bad for this trip.
到了饭店，老板看到我很高兴，因为他等了好久都没人接，加送餐费也没用。
When he got to the restaurant, the boss was glad to see me, because he had been waiting for a long time, and it was no use adding food.
两家医院都在同一家餐厅点的鲍鱼饭，听起来很补。
Both hospitals ordered abalone rice at the same restaurant, which sounds like a tonic.
到了武昌医院，对方说没有点餐，电话打了几次他都否认，只好联系下单的顾客，过了一会儿又让送到三公里外的洪山区梨园街社区卫生院。
At Wuchang Hospital, the other side said there was no order, several phone calls he denied, had to contact the order of customers, and after a while was sent to the Hong Shan Li Yuan Street Community Health Center three kilometers away.
搁平常我就发飙了。
I just freaked out when things were normal.
但是他点了500多块钱餐，手提袋子装满了，餐箱也放不下，我想可能不是医生护士点的，是别人帮点的。
But he ordered more than five hundred dollars worth of food. The bag was full and the box wouldn't fit. I don't think it was ordered by a doctor or a nurse.
接餐的人穿着白大褂戴着口罩和一次性头罩，一直跟我说感谢。
People in white coats wearing masks and disposable hoods kept saying thank you to me.
去旁边便利店买水我才知道，以前社区医院的人吃饭都由武昌医院的后勤统一解决，现在武昌医院超负荷远转，顾不上这边啦。
Go to a convenience store to buy water I know, before the community hospital by the logistics of Wuchang Hospital to solve the problem, now Wuchang Hospital overload far away, ignore this side.
我两个室友都是外卖员，去医院送餐的事情我没有告诉他们，怕他们介意。
I didn't tell my two roommates, both of whom were takeaway clerks, about going to the hospital to deliver their food, for fear they would mind.
之前我们收工回家，就聊哪些顾客难搞，哪些单子难送。
Before we came home from work, we talked about which customers were hard to handle and which ones were difficult to deliver.
“封城”那天下雨，滴答滴答的，晚上我犯懒就没有送餐，和室友只聊了多少人确诊，多少人死了。
"Seal the city" that day rain, tick to tick, at night I did not send food lazy, and roommates only talked about how many people diagnosed, how many died.
他们嘴上说“有什么大不了的”，但实际很担心。
They say, "What's the big deal," but they're actually worried.
年三十那天，我下楼买罐粥，没戴口罩被人鄙视，便利店老板强制性送我一个棉口罩，这种口罩基本没什么用，但戴上后其实挺暖和。
Thirty years ago, I went downstairs to buy porridge, no mask was despised, convenience store owners forced me to send me a cotton mask, basically useless, but it is actually quite warm.
晚上吃饭刷微博，看到医生的年夜饭就是泡面，送医院的单子没有外卖员敢接，很愧疚，当时决定明天开工。
Evening brushes Weibo, see doctor's New Year's dinner is bubble noodles, the list sent to the hospital did not dare to take away, very guilty, then decided to start tomorrow.
老计到医院送餐。
Old plan to send food to hospital.
往医院送鲍鱼饭的时候，看到门口不停有人进进出出，路边停满车，有救护车刚好拉来病人，医务人员和人起了争执，但也不是网上说的那么混乱。
While delivering abalone rice to the hospital, I saw people coming in and out of the door, cars parked on the side of the road, ambulances just pulling in sick people, medical staff and people quarrelling, but not as confused as the Internet said.
5天后（1月30日）我又经过武昌医院——救护车停在门口，穿防护服的医护正在对担架车上的人做心脏按压，有点远，听不清周围的人在说什么；路口，一个中年人背着一个年纪稍微大的看不清性别的人，慢但很稳地走过，背上的人一动不动；门口坐着晒太阳的阿姨忽然身子往一边倒，一个医护人员和另一个人走过来扶住，抱着她往医院里面走。
Five days later (Jan. 30) I passed Wuchang Hospital - the ambulance stopped at the door, and the nurse in protective clothing was massaging the man on the stretcher, too far away to hear what the others were saying.
很平静，周围站着的人，拦住的绳子后面的保安，拦路的铁马（交警）旁的医护人员，身后商店的老板，都很平静，但是我觉得好像一座山向我压过来，我只想背转身，离开。
It was quiet, the people standing around me, the guard behind the stopped rope, the paramedic at the iron horse (traffic policeman) in the way, the owner of the shop behind me were calm, but I felt as if a mountain was pressing on me and I just wanted to turn around and leave.
我把这些记到微博上。
I put this on the microblog.
刚开始做外卖员我就想记录，“记录外卖骑手们的故事，或者事故？” 疫情期间记得多一些，到@长江日报下面留言：“外卖骑手（比如我）也还在工作中，也需要鼓励。
When I first started as a takeaway, I wanted to record, "Record the stories of takeaway riders, or accidents?" Remember more during the epidemic, and go to @ Changjiang Daily and leave a message: "Take out riders (like me) are still at work and need encouragement."
” 收到两万多赞。
More than 20,000 compliments were received.
有一个跑腿单是清理猫砂，我看价格49.5元，划算。
There is a running errands clean cat sand, I think the price is 49.5 yuan, cost money.
姑娘家在黄石，离开武汉四天，她室友开的门。
Aunt's house in Yellowstone, four days away from Wuhan, her roommate opened the door.
猫把家里弄得非常乱，一共三只猫，只有灰胖的在外面，猫笼里应该有只大猫，找了半天，发现在柜子后面。
The cat made a mess of the house. There were only three cats. Only the fat one was outside. There was supposed to be a big cat in the cage.
刚进屋，眼镜雾蒙蒙，看不清，以为地上有死老鼠，结果竟然是死掉的猫崽，原来有只大猫下崽啦，最后我也没搞清楚是谁的。
When I first came into the house, my glasses were foggy and I could not see clearly that there were dead mice on the ground. It turned out to be a dead cat.
姑娘知道了泣不成声，我也不知道怎么办，就戴着一次性手套，找了个袋子，把猫砂铲了，猫崽处理了，门一关，东西一拎离开。
When the girl learned to cry and I did not know what to do, she put on her disposable gloves, found a bag, shovelled the cat's litter, handled the cat's litter, closed the door, and carried everything away.
大年初五我路过一个公交车站，看到有个戴口罩的胖嬢孃前后徘徊，离她好几米就停下问，“诶，阿姨，怎么啦？”她头发花白，戴着口罩但能看出来脸红红的，要拦出租车去徐东，和我同路。
Earlier this year, I passed a bus stop and saw a fat man in a mask prowl a few meters away from her and asked, "Auntie, what's the matter?" She was grey-haired, wearing a mask, but could see red-faced and wanted to stop a taxi to Xu Dong and follow me.
要是以前我会拉（载）她，但那天没有拉。
I would have pulled her, but I didn't pull her that day.
我们骑手每天到处接单送单，尽量避免跟其他人近距离接触，万一有事儿呢？可哪儿有车啊，我一路过来一辆车都没看到。
We riders pick up tickets from place to place every day and try to avoid getting in close contact with other people, what if anything happened?
1月27号，电动车没电了，我骑共享单车回家换电池。
On January 27th, when the electric car ran out of electricity, I rode my bike home to change batteries.
坐在街边抽烟休息的时候，身后密密麻麻的小区里，很多住户突然把窗户打开，探出头开始喊：“武汉加油。
Sitting on the street smoking rest, behind a dense community, a lot of residents suddenly opened the window, and began to yell: "Wuhan refueling.
” 我拍下来发了个微博：“麻蛋，烟熏了眼睛！”其实，我并没有被这种喊口号的行为感动，感动我的是每个人。
"I took pictures and posted a micro-blog:" Snuggle eggs, smoke your eyes! "In fact, I was not moved by such slogans, it was everyone who moved me.
路口卖菜的小贩。
A hawker selling vegetables at a junction.
不接触，不见面，我也不会等他们去年7月我开始送外卖，10点多起床，11点开始送餐，晚上11、12点收工。
No contact, no meeting, I won't wait for them to take off last July. I get up at ten o'clock, start at eleven, and close at eleven or twelve in the evening.
我比较懒，一个月收入五六千，好点儿的时候能拿一万多。
I'm lazy. I make five or six thousand a month. I can take more than ten thousand when I feel better.
以我的住处为圆心，5公里为半径画圆，哪个小区有电梯，哪栋必须自己爬楼，哪里的单好接，我已经摸得一清二楚，之前最夸张的一次，可以一趟送10个单，也没有超时。
To my residence for the center, 5 kilometers for the radius painting circle, which community has elevator, which must climb their own buildings, where the single, I have touched, the most exaggerated, can send 10 tickets at a time, there is no overtime.
现在送餐，如果能够进入单元楼，我就放在门边，然后打电话告诉他，扭头离开，就算顾客没有“备注”我也这样操作。
Now, if I can get into the apartment building, I'll put it by the door and call him and tell him to turn around and leave, even if the customer doesn't have a "remark".
我专门买了硫磺皂，把水温打到最高，洗三遍。
I specially bought sulphur soap, hit the water temperature to the highest, wash three times.
每天回家就把衣服挂在椅背上，靠着电油汀烘烤。
Every day when I go home, I hang my clothes on the back of my chair and bake them with electric grease.
很多小区已经不让进外人了，我就放在保安那儿，打电话让顾客取。
Many neighborhoods are off limits to outsiders, so I put them over at the security guard and call customers to pick them up.
如果他们不理解，我就解释两句。
If they don't understand, I'll explain.
我们不接触不见面，我也不会等他们。
We don't meet or meet, and I don't wait for them.
没有碰到很嫌弃我的顾客，有表情嫌弃的，我能感觉到，但我不想跟他们计较。
I don't meet customers who hate me and have expressions of disgust. I can feel it, but I don't want to worry about them.
听同行说起，有顾客拿着纸巾垫着拿餐，我遇到过戴着啃鸭脖的一次性手套接餐的，我猜他进屋后会把手套扔了，可能还会喷消毒液。
At first, I met someone with a disposable gloves nibbling on his neck. I guess he would throw the gloves into the house and maybe spray the disinfectant.
有顾客非常客气，住七楼一直下到三楼来取，接过餐之后不停说谢谢。
Customers are very kind, living on the seventh floor to the third floor to pick up, after the reception said thank you.
这让我觉得疫情让大家变得特别理解别人，比较宽容。
This makes me feel that the epidemic has made people understand others in particular, more tolerant.
我也接跑腿代买的单，因为经常有顾客给大红包。
I also take errands because customers often give red packets.
有个顾客说要在家带孩子，出不来，让我帮买菜啊，酒精啊，温度计啊，很多东西。
One of the customers said he was bringing up the kids at home, so he couldn't get out. Let me buy some food, alcohol, thermometers, a lot of things.
我有些为难，说“怕不好买”，对面误会了，赶紧说再给我个红包。
I am a little embarrassed, said "afraid not to buy", opposite misunderstanding, said quickly give me a red envelope.
其实为难，是因为时间不早了，附近有青菜卖的超市恐怕买不到了。
In fact, the dilemma, because it is late, there are vegetables near the supermarket may not be able to buy.
果不其然，沃尔玛里凡是带叶子的都卖光，就剩下土豆、尖椒，洋葱。
Sure enough, Wal-Mart has sold out all its leaves, leaving potatoes, peppers and onions.
还好我知道一个专门卖青菜的小店，乱七八糟买了一些，花了166元，临走时老板告诉我因为进不来货，马上就关门了。
Fortunately, I know a small shop specializing in green vegetables, bought some at random, spent 166 yuan, the boss told me that the goods can not enter, immediately closed.
路口也有小贩，白菜4元/斤，菜苔10元/斤，平时白菜就一两元，要贵很多。
Junction also have vendors, cabbage 4 yuan / jin, moss 10 yuan / catty, usually cabbage on a one or two yuan, much more expensive.
药店显示口罩酒精基本无货。
Pharmacies show that alcohol is almost non-existent.
沃尔玛的三文鱼打折，我自己买了一点发到微博，马上就有人劝我不要生吃。
Wal-Mart salmon discount, I bought a bit of their own to Weibo, immediately someone advised me not to eat raw.
我心想怎么不能吃？网友说，医疗资源太紧张了，三文鱼可能有寄生虫，芥末如果轻微变质，可能也吃不出来，“现在身体太重要了，病不起”。
Netizens said: "Medical resources are too tight, salmon may have parasites, mustard if slightly spoilage, may not be able to eat," now too important to afford illness.
大家都是好意，晚上回去后，我做熟了三文鱼又发微博：“芥末就是要黏在三文鱼身边，即使是煎熟的，这是芥末最后的倔强；再滴一滴国产酱油，抹上老干妈，是煎熟的三文鱼最后的妥协！” 他们留言说，煎熟吃就放心了。
Everybody was kind, and when I got home in the evening, I cooked the salmon and tweaked it: "Mustard is to stick to the salmon, even if cooked, it's the last stubble of mustard; and to drip a drop of homemade soy sauce on the dried salmon is the last compromise!
微博越发越多，有个女生私信我：“我知道你很忙，但是外面买是不是特别可怕，我看了你的微博，我哭了，你拍的很多照片都是我每天要走的路。
As the microblogging grew, a girl privately wrote to me, "I know you're busy, but it's not terribly scary outside. I saw your microblog, I cried, and many of the pictures you took were the ones I had to walk every day.
”她说她咳嗽，但是不发热，在家自我隔离，她说害怕，几乎每天都哭……我不擅长安慰人，就发到微博让大家安慰她。
She says she coughs, but doesn't get hot, isolates herself at home, says she's afraid and cries almost every day... I'm not very good at comforting people, and sends microblogs to comfort her.
她要买的念慈菴川贝枇杷膏、莲花清瘟胶囊、奥司他韦和阿莫西林，我买了放在她家门边的楼梯上，过会儿她出来拿进去。
She was going to buy a loquat loquat, a lotus rinderpest capsule, oseltamivir and amoxicillin, which I bought on the stairs next to her door, and she came out later to take them in.
让我铲猫砂的女生后来又让我去。
The girl who asked me to shovel cat sand later let me go.
跟上次一样，三个猫砂盆满满当当……猫们都很好，依旧是上次的家伙接客，另外两只猫躲起来，猫粮剩一小半，水也剩小半，都加满，摸摸这个憨货，拎了一袋东西（猫砂）走了。
As before, the three cat litter pots were full... the cats were fine, the same as before, the other two cats were hidden, the cat food was less than half full, the water was half full, he felt this honest and honest, and carried away a bag of things (cat litter).
路过螃蟹岬的盒马（鲜生），看到他们还在工作，瞬间有一种游击队对正规军的复杂情感。
Passing crab cape box horses (rare), see they are still working, a moment there is a guerrilla of the regular army complex feelings.
人家是有组织有队伍，我相当于兼职的业余游击队呀。
People are organized. I'm the equivalent of a part-time amateur guerrilla.
现在不能进的小区越来越多了。
There are more and more small areas that cannot be accessed now.
1月23日“封城”前两天，即便已经都知道“人传人”，也没有感觉到顾客异常或者嫌弃，我敲门，他们来开门接过东西，这前后的变化太快。
On January 23, two days before the city was closed, I knocked on the door, even though I knew "person to person" and didn't feel unusual or distasteful.
这两天有顾客点了炸鸡和可乐，送餐费也很贵，18块钱。
Over the past two days, customers have ordered fried chicken and cola, food delivery is also very expensive, 18 yuan.
小区之前一直让进，那天保安把我拦住了。
The neighborhood kept letting me in until the security guard stopped me that day.
我打电话给顾客，他一直埋怨为什么这次不让进，让我把电话给保安，保安解释都这个时候了，不能进就下来取一下。
I called the customer and he kept complaining about why he wouldn't let me call the security guard. It was high time the security guard explained that he couldn't come in and get it.
他很生气，说：那我不要了！“谢谢”，我说，扭头走了，炸鸡我就自己吃了。
He is very angry, said: I do not want! "Thank you", I said, turned his head away, fried chicken I ate.
我不怕他们打一星，他给我差评我也不怕，这种特殊时期平台也不会扣钱。
I am not afraid of them playing a star, he gave me poor comments I am not afraid, this special period platform will not deduct money.
还有一次送完餐被保安大姐和大哥拉住当模特，大姐拿个体温计对着我额头，大哥在旁边手机拍照……我配合完成了摆拍，不过好尴尬，体温计都没打开，闹什么眼子！送餐时搁在单元楼无人的桌子上等待顾客取餐。
Another meal by the security elder sister and elder brother when the model, elder sister took a thermometer to my forehead, Big Brother on the side of the mobile phone photo... I finished the pendulum, but it was embarrassing, the thermometer did not open, what eyes!
武汉人只要能吃上热干面，那就都不是事儿其实我对武汉印象并不好，也没什么感情。
Wuhan people as long as they can eat hot and dry noodles, it is not a matter of fact I do not have a good impression of Wuhan, there are no feelings.
大学四年在武汉，感觉很乱，学校外面天天建设，都是坑坑洼洼的，一下雨跟水房一样，可以游泳。
University four years in Wuhan, feel very chaotic, daily construction outside the school, are pock-marked, like a rain room, can swim.
武汉是码头城市，匪气重。
Wuhan is a wharf city.
我晕车，没法坐公交，每次坐出租车都闹得不是很愉快。
I get carsick and can't take a bus. Every time I take a taxi, I don't have a good time.
被司机绕路多收钱，拒载的时候说他们两句，他们下车就要打你。
Drivers around to collect more money, even when they say two words, they get out of the car to hit you.
上大学跟别人踢球或者打球，因为抢场地跟人打架，对方都是武汉人。
Go to college to play football or ball games with other people, because the venue to fight, each other is Wuhan.
大学毕业我就离开武汉，一直没有回来。
After college I left Wuhan and never came back.
我在重庆待过，感觉热情大气，武汉人少了那种大气。
I stayed in Chongqing, feeling warm atmosphere, Wuhan people less that atmosphere.
现在是不抓电动车了，去年我的电动车被扣过一次，当时餐箱里还有三个餐没送，第二天跑到武大医学院后边提车，不给提，要排队取号，我说了半天好话，装可怜，才把车还我，最后网上还交了二十块钱罚款。
Now I don't catch electric cars. Last year, my electric car was impounded once, when there were three meals left in the box. The next day, I ran to the back of the College of Medicine of Wu University to pick up the car.
但是，这个“但是”很重要。
But this "but" is important.
我老家在十堰，武当山脚下。
My hometown is at the foot of Shiyan Wudang Mountain.
工作后一直在外面漂，给骗子公司卖过邮票，摆过地摊儿，在广告公司搞过视频，直到去年生意破产，才到武汉送外卖。
After work I floated outside, sold stamps to swindlers, put up stalls, made videos at advertising agencies, and only went to Wuhan last year to deliver takeaway goods.
一旦出了湖北，家乡就是湖北，武汉就是半个家乡。
Once out of Hubei, hometown is Hubei, Wuhan is half hometown.
你会嫌你妈做饭不好吃，唠叨，没有文化，但是她还是你妈，就这个感觉。
You'll think your mother's cooking is bad, nagging, and uneducated, but she's still your mother, that's what it feels like.
我在洪山区，经常路过首义广场和火车头体育场，也去黄鹤楼那边送餐。
I am in the Hongshan area, often passing through the first righteousness square and locomotive depot, but also to the Yellow Crane Tower to deliver meals.
武汉理工的女生很好，偶尔超时她们从不介意。
Wuhan Polytechnic girls are very good, occasionally overtime they never mind.
平时的楚河汉街，电动车堵在路上一动不动，急死了，除了骂人一点儿办法没有。
Usually Chu He Han Street, electric cars stuck in the road motionless, anxious to death, except for cursing no way.
慢慢跟这个城市也亲密了。
I'm getting closer to this city.
我喜欢下雨天送单，因为奖励高，心情不好的时候就接东湖附近的单，送完单去东湖转转。
I like to send tickets in rainy day, because the reward is high, when the mood is not good, take the East Lake near the single, send the order to the East Lake.
留在武汉过年就是为了多挣点钱。
To stay in Wuhan for the Spring Festival is to earn more money.
餐箱两三百一个，有点儿贵，我现在到“美团”做骑手，还一直在用之前“饿了么”的餐箱。
It was two or three hundred cases, a little expensive, and I'm now a rider at the "Mission" and have been using the "hungry" diner before.
早在元旦之前我就打算今年不回家了，春节订单量大，送餐费高，平台奖励也高。
As early as New Year's Day before I intend not to go home this year, Spring Festival orders large, high delivery costs, platform rewards are high.
23日“封城”，起初我还有点儿小窃喜，很多人要留在武汉，大家还是要吃饭，单子会多一些吧，送外卖的外地的可能回家了，也没人抢单了。
23, "closed the city", at first I was a little bit happy, many people want to stay in Wuhan, we still have to eat, a more list of it, the delivery of foreign countries may go home, and no one snatched the tickets.
我们的电动车速度很快，大路任你跑，平常很多规矩，不让走机动车道啊，限速啊，不逆行啊，我微博还发过一条，“不闯红灯啊，那早就饿死啦，一天挣不了50块钱。
Our electric cars are so fast that you can run along the main roads, and it's not normal to use motorways, speed limits, not retrograde. I've also posted a line on my microblog that says, "Don't run a red light, you're starving. You can't make 50 bucks a day.
”现在单也不多，平时可能40分钟配送时间，现在10几分钟就可以了。
There is not much on the list, perhaps 40 minutes of shipping time in normal times, but now 10 minutes is fine.
每单的跑腿费、送餐费也比平时高，顾客还会给我大红包，一月份我挣了一万多。
The cost of running errands and delivering meals was also higher than usual, and customers gave me big red packets, which I earned more than 10,000 in January.
有个朋友在武汉郊区，响应动员去了火神山，每天工资一千块钱，干完十天要隔离两个礼拜，每天还能拿三百。
A friend of mine went to Mount Fire in the suburb of Wuhan and got a thousand yuan a day. After ten days of work, he would be isolated for two weeks.
但有些事情不能细想。
But there are things you can't think about.
1月30日下午在销品茂路口等红绿灯，一个阿姨骑电动车停在我旁边，问我现在能过么？我说还不能。
January 30 afternoon at the sales Maomao intersection waiting for the traffic lights, an aunt on an electric car parked next to me and asked me now? I said not.
她说第一次骑电动车，不太会。
She said she didn't know how to ride an electric car for the first time.
一起过了红绿灯，我问她去哪儿？她说，要回小东门。
After the traffic light, I asked her where she was going, she said, to go back to Dongmen.
我很奇怪，七公里啊，就这样慢慢骑？她继续像自言自语一样说着，“来送饭，前两天都是骑车来，很累，骑不动了，今天骑电动车。
She went on talking to herself, "Come and give me your rice, I've been cycling for the last two days, I'm tired, I can't ride, today I ride an electric car.
”我沉默着不知道该说啥。
I was silent, not knowing what to say.
现在医生不需要送饭了，她这是给病人送饭吧，觉得很伤感。
Now the doctor does not need to deliver food. She is bringing food to the patient. She feels sad.
但是武汉人很看得开，就我的观察，“封城”也没发生很大的恐慌。
But Wuhan people can see very much, on my observation, "closure" has not taken place great panic.
我妈和我姐让我小心，不想让我再送外卖，我都岔开话题。
My mother and my sister told me to be careful not to let me take out again, and I turned the conversation around.
听我姐说，十堰还不如武汉，出小区都困难。
Listen to my sister said, Shiyan is not as good as Wuhan, out of the community are difficult.
大家都非常压抑，窝在家里，也没什么发泄的渠道。
Everyone is very depressed, nest at home, there is no outlet.
昨天我在路上经过一个抱着泰迪的阿姨，看她步履匆匆的，她后面跟着三个流浪狗对着他们叫唤。
Yesterday I passed an aunt with Teddy in her arms and saw her walking hurriedly as she was followed by three stray dogs barking at them.
我扭头大声问她，没事儿吧。
I turned my head and asked her aloud, It's all right.
她说，没事儿。
It's all right, she said.
我扭头继续走，听到她在后面大喊：“谢谢你啊！”那句谢谢，我觉得是一种发泄。
I turned my head and continued walking until I heard her yell behind me, "Thank you!" Thank you, I felt like an outlet.
我们都是普通人，都很脆弱，谁都不是铁打的，不能在一块儿吹牛逼打麻将是多大的痛苦啊，现在无法排解，只能默默承受。
We are all ordinary people, are very vulnerable, no one is made of iron, can not brag together play mahjong is how much pain, now can not solve, can only bear silently.
但是阿姨还能遛狗，在小区里戴着口罩聊天。
But the aunt can walk the dog, wearing a mask to chat in the neighborhood.
大年初四那天，武汉出太阳了，我走了三公里，发现了唯一有热干面吃的一家店。
On the fourth day of the year, Wuhan out of the sun, I walked three kilometers, found the only hot dry noodles to eat a shop.
武汉人只要能吃上热干面，那就都不是事儿。
Wuhan people as long as they can eat hot and dry noodles, it is not a matter.
老计的电动车，用的“饿了么”餐箱。
The old-fashioned electric car, using the "hungry" dinner box.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介叶雯端庄朋克。
Back-office reply & quot; readers & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉外卖员穿过人间烟火。
Wuhan take-out staff through fireworks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉外卖员穿过人间烟火";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan take-out man with & quot; & quot; through & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉人只要能吃上热干面，那就都不是事儿。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
";。
;; & quot;
title: '锤杀父母13岁乡村少年的“江湖人生”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '被毕业论文卡住的499天 |  中科大博士生刘春杨之死',。
& # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
