骑摩托车返乡的年轻人，路上想起宫崎骏。
A young man riding a motorcycle home remembers Hayao Miyazaki on his way home.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
编者按：2020年1月12日，在广东省中山市打工的李小刚骑上拉力摩托车，载着老婆开始了1400多公里的返乡路。
Editor's Note: On January 12, 2020, Li Xiaogang, a man working in Zhongshan City, Guangdong Province, started his 1,400-kilometer journey home with his wife on a scooter.
彼时，路上还没有戴口罩的人，李小刚的返乡路是中国历年春运大潮中无比普通的一次。
At that time, there were no people wearing masks on the road, Li Xiaogang's return road is the Chinese New Year in the Spring Festival traffic tide of unparalleled ordinary.
一周后，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩大。
A week later, the new coronavirus pneumonia spread.
为了减少人口流动，控制疫情，一部分人没能返乡过节。
To reduce population movements and control the epidemic, some people did not return home for the holidays.
但对此刻的中国人来说，返乡的路就像李小刚的旅程，身隔两地，心相系，虽远必至。
But for the Chinese at the moment, the road home is like the journey of Li Xiaogang, separated from the two places, although the heart is far away.
《极昼》愿每一个读者能像李小刚一样，平安抵达，幸福康乐。
"Extreme Day" I hope that every reader can be like Li Xiaogang, safe arrival, happiness and well-being.
文｜高佳编辑｜林鹏1月12日，春运开始的第三天，在广东省中山市打工的李小刚骑上拉力摩托车，载着老婆开往1400多公里外的四川省泸州老家。
+ yeg + yeg Xiao Gang, who worked in Zhongshan City, Guangdong Province, on the third day of the Spring Festival, rode her motorcycle, carrying her to her hometown of Luzhou, Sichuan Province, more than 1,400 kilometers away.
这是李小刚来到中山的第15年，他第一次成为“摩托大军”中的一员。
This is Li Xiaogang came to Zhongshan's 15th year, he first became a member of the "motorcycle army."
骑摩托车返乡最早可以追溯到2000年春运，珠三角的一些务工者三五成群，结伴而行，骑车回广西、贵州、湖南、四川等老家过年。
Motorcycle home can be traced back to the spring transport in 2000, some workers in the Pearl River Delta in groups, bicycling back to Guangxi, Guizhou, Hunan, Sichuan and other home for the New Year.
2008年，春运期间骑行在路上的务工者们吸引了媒体关注，广西省梧州市——不少务工者西行的必经之地，过境的摩托车高达13万辆，他们成了人们口中的“摩托大军”。
In 2008, workers riding on the road attracted media attention during the Spring Games, and Wuzhou, Guangxi Province, a must-see for westbound workers with 130,000 motorcycles, has become what people call a "motor army."
根据梧州市交警支队的统计，今年春运，“摩托大军”的数量降至3万左右，在2013年春运高峰时，这个数值达30万之高。
According to Wuzhou traffic police, the number of "motorcyclists" dropped to around 30,000 this spring, reaching a peak of 300,000 in 2013.
选择骑行上路的人，例如90后李小刚有骑摩托的爱好，也不再仅仅因为“一票难求”，最早打算骑车返乡时，把它计划成一次“旅程”。
Those who choose to ride their bikes, such as Li Xiaogang after 90, no longer have a taste for motorcycles, and no longer plan a "journey" when they first plan to cycle home.
李小刚打算开春时去别的省份打工，他之前在中山做工装水电工，“现在扩张、翻新的厂房少，活也越来越难找。
Li Xiaogang plans to work in other provinces in the spring. He used to work as a plumber in Zhongshan.
”中山到泸州，这趟路他走了15年，2020年或许是最后一趟，这些年的“广漂”生涯，就借摩托车返乡画个句号。
"He waded 15 years into Luzhou, probably for the last time in 2020, when he ended a career of riding a motorcycle home.
和所有在路上的人一样，30岁的李小刚在年尾短暂“歇脚”，然后继续为了生计奔波，在故乡和下一个远方。
Like everyone else on the road, Li Xiaogang, 30, took a short "rest" at the end of the year, then continued to make a living in his hometown and beyond.
以下是李小刚的口述：1我有一台拉力车，是去年8月份花一万六千块钱买的。
I have a pull-up car, which I bought last August for sixteen thousand yuan.
它比一般的摩托底盘高，可以跑山间路。
It is taller than an ordinary motorcycle chassis and can run on mountain roads.
我喜欢“跑山”（编者注：山路多弯道，跑山是常见的摩托车玩法），中山有个五桂山，我和车友群里的朋友常去，在那儿能看景，能呼吸新鲜空气。
I like to run the mountain. There is a Wugui Mountain in Zhongshan. My friends and I often go there to see the view and get some fresh air.
除了满足爱好，这车平常接活做工时也能骑，车的极限速度是117km/h，在市区，我一般控制速度在30km/h到50km/h。
In addition to satisfying my hobbies, the car can be ridden during normal working hours. The extreme speed of the car is 117 km / h. In urban areas, I normally control the speed from 30km / h to 50km / h.
它油耗低，在市区通行，油耗1公里1毛2分钱。
It is low fuel consumption, in urban areas, 1 km of fuel consumption 12 cents.
我早就打算过年时骑摩托回家。
I had planned to go home by motorcycle in Spring Festival.
今年1月12号早上7点，我骑着它从中山向北，赶到佛山，跟另外两个骑摩托回四川的老乡汇合之后，10点多钟往西走，正式踏上返乡路，加上我老婆和《新京报》做直播的记者，我们一共有9个人。
At 7 a.m. on January 12 this year, I rode north from Zhongshan to Foshan, where I joined two other villagers on motorcycles back to Sichuan. At 10 o'clock or so, we were on our way home.
1月初，记者联系到我，说想跟拍一对夫妻骑摩托车春节返乡，定下的启程日期是12号。
In early January, I was contacted by a reporter who said that he wanted to go home with a couple on a motorcycle for the Spring Festival.
我做水电工，接一些零散的小商户、小厂房的水电装修，做一天活拿一天工资，放假时间能自己定。
I work as a water electrician, pick up a few scattered small businesses, small workshop of hydropower decoration, do a day's work for a day's wages, holiday time can set their own.
我老婆在制衣厂打工，经常有客户年底发单，说要赶工卖年货，她们放假的日期就跟着推迟，好在今年老板松了口，说1月份接的1万件货做完就放假，她们紧赶着，也在12号前完工了。
My wife works in a garment factory and often end-of-year orders from customers asking for work to sell their new year's merchandise. Fortunately, this year the boss said that the 10,000 items taken in January would be on vacation. They were in a hurry and finished by the 12th.
一起回家的老乡常年骑摩托车返乡，跑过十多趟，我们商量走福昆线，经过广东江门，广西贵港、河池，进了贵州就从麻尾收费站直接上高速，一直往北到仁怀，再进四川。
We talked about taking the Fukukunline through Jiangmen in Guangdong Province, Guigang in Guangxi and Hechi in Guizhou Province. We went straight up the freeway from the Ma Mei toll station to the north to Yan Huai and then to Sichuan.
去年国庆假期我走的是反方向，骑摩托从老家到中山。
Last year's National Day holiday I went in the opposite direction, riding a motorcycle from my hometown to Zhongshan.
那次直接走夏蓉高速，从贵州仁怀进，广西桂林出，假期期间高速路免费。
That direct Xia Rong high-speed, from Guizhou Renhuai Jin, Guangxi Guilin out, during the holidays freeway free.
当时我不赶时间，也没具体计划，会转转景点，找些当地小吃，在广西吃了老友粉、麻鸭、梧州龟苓膏，几乎全程走高速，路上只花了两天时间。
I wasn't in a hurry, I didn't have a specific plan, I would turn scenic spots, find some local snacks, in Guangxi eat old friends powder, mallard duck, Wuzhou tortoise Ling paste, almost all the way high-speed, the road took only two days.
返乡前，李小刚在检查摩托车。
Before returning home, Li Xiaogang was checking his motorcycle.
图片源自网络这次带着老婆一起，又是冬天，骑得慢些，一般跑40km/h到60km/h的速度，半天下来有个把小时跑上70km/h。
The picture comes from the network this time with his wife, it is winter, riding more slowly, generally running 40 km / h to 60 km / h, half a day down a 70 km / h run.
我们早上7点钟出发，晚上7、8点钟在路上经过的乡镇歇脚。
We set out at seven in the morning and rested at seven or eight in the evening in the town by which we passed.
前三天每天走400多公里，最后一天下了贵州的高速，走了大概270公里，15号回到老家泸县洪滩村。
The first three days of walking more than 400 kilometers, the last day of the Guizhou Highway, about 270 km, 15 returned to his hometown Luxian Hongtan village.
在路上，每跑一两个小时，我们就得停下来休息10分钟。
On the way, for every hour or two we have to stop and have a rest for 10 minutes.
最强烈的感受是冷，第二天过了广西河池之后开始下毛毛雨，我穿了四条裤子，还是冷。
The strongest feeling is cold, the next day after the Guangxi River basin began to drizzle, I wore four pants, or cold.
毛毛雨很难形成水滴，要时不时用手套把面罩上的雨擦掉，后来因为头盔内外的温差太大，总是起雾，只能把面罩打开，面部裸露在外面，雨一直往眼睛里钻，下车的时候，眼睛都充血。
It is difficult to form drops of water. Use gloves to wipe away the rain from the mask from time to time. Later, because of the large temperature difference inside and outside the helmet, it is always foggy and can only turn on the mask, exposing the face, the rain drills into the eyes, and the eyes become bloodshot as you get off.
那天也原本打算天黑时就歇脚，但广西的交警看起了雾，又下雨，已经在前面20公里处等我们，准备好给我们开路。
It was supposed to be dark, but the traffic police in Guangxi looked at the fog and it was raining. They were waiting for us 20 kilometers ahead, ready to make way for us.
我们赶到他们的站点，在他们护送下到了广西和贵州交界处，又往前走了10公里，到了贵州的麻尾镇，夜里11点半，才找了住处休息。
We hurried to their station, escorted by them to Guangxi and Guizhou at the junction of the junction, and walked another 10 kilometers, to the town of Massachusetts in Guizhou, until 11: 30 at night, found a place to rest.
我老婆穿着黑色的雨衣，当时我越看越觉得她像个粽子，从那天一直笑她到家。
My wife was wearing a black raincoat, the more I looked at her like a dumplings, from that day to laugh at her home.
她在后座，没办法活动手脚，更是冷得厉害，在麻尾上高速之前，我怕她抵不住，让她坐上了记者们的汽车。
She was in the back seat, unable to move her hands or feet. It was even colder. I was afraid that she would not be able to resist and get into the journalists' car before driving at a high speed.
这一路虽然天气恶劣，但有人陪着，没觉得很难度过。
Although the weather is bad all the way, but accompanied by someone, did not feel very difficult to pass.
我本身就喜欢骑摩托，它给人一种自由、没有束缚的感觉。
I like to ride a motorcycle, it gives people a sense of freedom, not bound.
一个人骑车的时候，耳朵边只有“轰轰”的风声，感觉自己真正地属于自己，唱啊、吼啊，都没人会在意。
When a person bikes, the ear side only "rumble" the wind sound, feel oneself really belong to oneself, sing, roar ah, no one cares.
路上让我印象深刻的，还有广西贵港平南县的白切鸡。
I was impressed by the way, and Guangxi Guigang Pinnan County, white-cut chicken.
虽说是四川人，在广东待了十几年，我的口味也变淡了。
Even though I was from Sichuan, I have stayed in Guangdong for more than ten years, and my taste has changed.
我喜欢吃广东的粉，水烧开，粉烫上15到20秒，加一点佐料就成了每天的早餐。
I like to eat Guangdong powder, boiled water, powdered 15 to 20 seconds, add a little seasoning to become a daily breakfast.
2往常我们过年回家，大多时候是坐大巴。
Usually we go home on New Year's Day, most of the time by bus.
我们那儿在中山打工的人多，光我们村就有十几个，中山有直接开到泸县的大巴车，53座，票价最便宜的时候卖80元，平常浮动在180元到280元之间，孩子开学前后和年关涨价厉害。
There are dozens of people working in Zhongshan, just a dozen of our villages. Zhongshan has 53 buses going directly to Luxian. The fares are 80 yuan at the cheapest price.
2009年，我爸妈还在中山打工，老婆第一次回我家过年，票价涨到560元，我们四口人过年车费花了5000多块钱。
In 2009, my parents are still working in Zhongshan, my wife's first New Year return home, the fare rose to 560 yuan, we four people spent more than 5000 yuan.
大巴一般凌晨4点钟发车，第二天中午到泸县，选择坐大巴，也不光是因为抢不到火车票。
General bus departure at 4 a.m., the next day to Luxian at noon, choose to take buses, not only because the train ticket.
每年都有人打算离开，回家时带着锅碗瓢盆，这些东西坐火车不好带，但客运大巴可以接受，装在底层车厢里，多带了东西也只另收三五十块钱。
Every year, people are going to leave with pots and pans on their way home. It's hard to carry on a train, but a coach is acceptable.
这次骑车返乡是计划已久，我也算车技熟练，没太大担心，但路上还是差点遇到危险。
The ride home was long planned, and I was skilful, not too worried, but I was almost in danger on the way.
在高速上，有个黑色的大众轿车，进服务区之前从左侧连跨两个车道，在我面前导流线上轧了过去。
On the freeway, there was a black Volkswagen, which crossed two lanes on the left before entering the service area and ran over the diversion line in front of me.
他的车尾距离我的摩托前胎不到一米，如果我车速快，肯定撞了。
The back of his car is less than a meter from the front tyre of my motorcycle. If I go fast, I must have hit it.
那句话怎么说的，别人是铁包肉，咱们摩托是肉包铁，只能万般小心。
That sentence how to say, other people are iron packet meat, we motorcycle is meat package iron, can only be very careful.
在国道、省道上情况就更复杂。
The situation is even more complicated on national roads and provincial roads.
我们经常看到一些面包车、小车经过路口时，不管单黄线、双黄线，直接就掉头。
We often see some vans, small cars crossing, regardless of the single yellow line, double yellow line, directly turned around.
从广西经过的时候，会路过一些乡镇集市，开得慢慢地，喇叭也不敢摁。
When passing through Guangxi, will pass some township bazaars, drive slowly, horns do not dare to press.
因为是外地人，打了喇叭，如果真遇到蛮横不讲理的，不爽了，直接倒在我面前，那真是百嘴难辩。
Because it is a stranger, played the trumpet, if really encountered outrageous unreasonable, uncomfortable, directly fell in front of me, that is really inarguable.
有时候大人在集市上买东西，小孩子没被牵住，一下子跑到路中间，也危险得很，所以碰到这种路段就急不得。
Sometimes adults in the market shopping, children were not caught, suddenly ran into the middle of the road, is also dangerous, so encounter this road section is urgent.
从贵州下了高速之后，到四川省内，又走了一段山间路，地势上麻烦一些，路几乎都是盘山而建，弯度大，路面又窄，我们刚好遇到一队货车，他们一边走，一边给刹车片降温，我们也不敢超车，摩托车的喇叭声小，货车可能听不到我们鸣笛，所以一直跟在后面走。
When we got off the expressway from Guizhou to Sichuan Province, we took another section of the mountain road. The terrain was more troublesome. The roads were built almost entirely from Panshan, and the roads were very steep and narrow.
好像骑车的时候，思维会很发散。
It seems that when you ride a bike, your mind will diverge.
在广西梧州，我看到有工程队在开山采石，灰尘很大，旁边地里的庄稼都没法活，会想到以前看过的宫崎骏的动画片。
In Wuzhou, Guangxi, I saw a team of engineers quarrying stones in Kaishan. The dust was so high that the crops nearby could not live.
环境真的会被破坏到像片子里那种地步吗？每个人都戴口罩，或者戴头套来呼吸，孩子们只能通过课本或电脑，来看到蓝天、白云、绿树。
Can the environment really be destroyed to the point where it's like in a movie? Everyone wears a mask, or wears a hood to breathe, and children can only see the blue sky, white clouds, and green trees through textbooks or computers.
转念一想，怎么这个地方的监管部门不去管呢？又联想到自己的工作，我也是做城市建设的，城市建设需要这些原材料，目前没有更好的科技手段去介入来制造这些原材料，那也只能就地取材。
In other words, how can the regulatory authorities in this area ignore it? I also think of my own work, I am also doing urban construction, urban construction needs these raw materials, there is no better technological means to intervene to make these raw materials, it can only be taken from the local materials.
天气好了，我就想，等一下不知道能在路边看到什么小摊，不知道能买到什么东西吃。
The weather is good, I thought, wait a moment do not know what can see in the roadside stall, do not know can buy something to eat.
下雨的时候，就想不知道什么时候天会变晴，骑到哪里可以变晴。
When it rains, I wonder when it will clear up and where it will clear up.
返乡路上的李小刚夫妇。
Mr. and Mrs. Li Xiaogang on their way home.
图片源自网络3因为被记者选中跟拍，在我们村里人看来，我也算出名了。
The picture originates from the network 3 because was chosen by the reporter to follow the filming, in our village, I also appeared to be well-known.
其实不过是因为我正好和老婆一起回家，又能赶上12号这天启程，正好符合他们的拍摄需要。
It was only because I happened to be home with my wife, and I was able to leave on the 12th, just in time for their shooting.
刚到家那两天，村里人见面都说：“这下出名了。
On the two days after arriving home, everyone in the village met and said, "This is famous.
”我说：“出啥名，不还是那个人名？”要说买个福利彩票中了500万，还能让我高兴个两三年，出名就是一个短期内的事，不稀奇。
"I said," What's the name, or the name of the man? "It's not uncommon to say that five million welfare lottery tickets make me happy for two or three years.
像前几年我们这儿勘测石油一样，那时候外国的专家也来了，飞机成天在头上飞，村里人很稀奇，我说：“有什么好稀奇的？我也不希望把我的地占了，把我弄到城市里去。
As we surveyed the oil here a few years ago, foreign experts came and the plane flew overhead all day long, and everyone in the village was very strange.
”在城市里不自由，我在老家音箱开多大声，都没有人来投诉。
"I wasn't free in the city and no one came to complain about how loudly I spoke on my home speakers.
城市是发展的方向，但我的归属还是在农村，农村才给我安全感，让人放松下来，城市太紧张。
City is the direction of development, but I still belong in the rural areas, the rural security, let people relax, the city is too tense.
我们装修工去城里小区做事，看见人家停车还要抢个车位，麻烦得很。
Our decorator went to work in the downtown area and got into a lot of trouble when he saw someone stop and grab a parking space.
我家院子里，只要亲戚朋友来，那不是随便让你停？在中山，我们这行去年生意不景气。
My yard, as long as relatives and friends come, that does not let you stop casually? In Zhongshan, our business was sluggish last year.
我有时一个月只接到一两个礼拜的活，挣三四千块钱，开支都不够。
Sometimes I only get a week or two of work a month, and I make three or four thousand dollars, and I don't spend enough.
去年元旦，我在东莞的工厂接了一单，工厂门卫说：“你看现在100个人都不到，以前我们这厂人多得很。
Last New Year's Day, I received a single order in Dongguan factory gate guard said: "You see there are less than 100 people, we used to have a large factory.
”可能因为国家注重抓环保，最近两年广东的厂子经济效益不像以前那样好，间接导致了我们这些做散工的没活。
Perhaps because of the government's focus on environmental protection, Guangdong's economic performance in the last two years has not been as good as it used to be, leading indirectly to our inactivity as casual laborers.
记得2015年、2016年，赚到钱的厂子总是要翻新，我们总有事情做。
Remember that in 2015, 2016, the money-making factory will always have to renovate, we always have something to do.
有不少还要扩大规模，四五百平的厂房，3、4个人做水电装修，差不多要做十几天，我几乎每个月都能接上两三单，干满30天。
A lot of them will have to be enlarged. Four or five hundred level factories, three or four people doing hydroelectric renovation, it will take almost ten days, I can connect almost every month two or three, working 30 days.
现在不光翻新、扩张的少了，连日常维修，比如修风扇、换灯泡这些也少了，都将就着用，控制成本。
Not only are there fewer renovations and expansions, but even routine maintenance, such as fixing fans and changing light bulbs, will be used to control costs.
所以我去年有一段时间只能在外地找活，8月份在老家买了摩托车之后，接到广西玉林的一单，骑车过去，干了半个月后回家。
So I had to look for work in other places for a time last year. After buying a motorcycle in my hometown in August, I got a ticket from Guangxi Yulin.
10月份又从家骑车到中山，我想，2020年我应该要离开广东了，车肯定也要骑回去，它体积大，用物流的话要花800多块钱。
Bicycle home to Zhongshan in October. I think I should leave Guangdong in 2020. I think the car will have to go back too. It is big and will cost over 800 yuan in logistics.
和李小刚同行的还有两个四川老乡。
Along with Li Xiaogang are two fellow villagers from Sichuan.
图片源自网络去年过年时，我就不想再回广东了，但在老家做工，一整天东奔西跑也就（挣）200块钱，去掉油费、生活费，剩下150块都难，这低于我的预算。
I didn't want to go back to Guangdong when the Spring Festival came last year, but working in my hometown, running around all day was just 200 yuan.
前两天我表哥放假回来，说有两个工地要人，一个在江西，一个在山西，可能过完年我就定下去哪。
Two days ago my cousin came back from holiday, said that there are two construction sites, one in Jiangxi, one in Shanxi, probably after the next year I will decide where to go.
广东那边见了太多人情世故，说出来都是苦。
Guangdong has seen too many people, said is bitter.
2018年10月份，我在做活的时候敲钉子，钉子尾部爆了，有碎渣进了眼睛里，我以为进了沙子，没当回事，后来开始流血，跑去医院又打电话给工头，他们都不接。
In October 2018, while I was doing my job, the nail blew out of its tail and bits of slag entered my eyes. I thought I was entering the sand, but I didn't take it seriously.
我们不签劳动合同，也没有医保，又没人证明我在那里做事，工地上的人甚至说：“我又没叫你来，你是谁我都不认识。
We have no labor contracts, no health insurance, and no one to prove that I was working there. The people on the site even said, "I didn't ask you to come.
”最后我只能自己贴了13000块的医药费。
I ended up paying $13,000 for my own medicine.
再早几年，我一连丢了4辆公路单车，一辆要350块钱。
A few years earlier, I had lost four highway bikes in a row, one for 350 yuan.
保安也不管，我跟老板说：“不做了，在你这做一个月，得拿半个月的工资来买单车。
The security guard did not care, I told the boss: "No, you do this for a month, you have to pay half a month's wages to pay for the car.
”老板说：“我给你赔一辆。
"The owner said," I'll pay you one.
”又坚持做了一个礼拜，单车没有赔给我，我又去辞职，老板不爽：“又不是没事情给你做，你每天多加一个小时班，干几天又可以买一部单车了。
"I kept doing it for a week and I quit, and the boss was upset:" It's not like there's nothing I can do for you, you can take an extra hour a day and buy a bike for a few days.
”我刚来到中山时才15岁，还在读初一。
I was only 15 years old when I arrived in Zhongshan and was still in junior high school.
那时候我父母都在中山沙溪镇打工，母亲在制衣厂剪线头，父亲在工地上干活，我在老家听说他们要离婚，急着来找他们，就这样待下来，在制衣厂里找了个活，工资拿1100多块钱。
When my parents were working in the town of Shashi Zhongshan, my mother was cutting thread in the clothes factory and my father was working on the construction site.
我们初中班上的同学，凡是出来打工的，90%都来了广东。
Our junior middle school students, who have come out to work, 90% have come to Guangdong.
那时还有些叛逆心理，想着交朋友，过成年人的生活，等过了青春的懵懂期，到了18、9岁，就开始想着赚钱了，其他一切都不那么重要，有钱说话才硬气，不用看别人的脸色。
At that time there was a rebellious mentality, to make friends, to live an adult life, and so on after the youth of the ignorant period, at 18 or 9 years old, began to think of making money, everything else is not so important, the money to speak hard, do not look at other people's face.
其实，按照我之前的计划，最后这趟从中山到泸县的路应当是这样走的：12号从广东出发，13号把广西跑完，去贵州遵义转一下，接着出发去四川爬折多山，如果能爬上去，身体没有高反的话，就为以后走318（国道）进拉萨做好了准备。
In fact, according to my previous plans, the last road from Zhongshan to Luxian should go as follows: Departing from Guangdong on the 12th, running Guangxi on the 13th and going to Zunyi in Guizhou Province.
从山上下来去自贡，那边产卤水井盐，营养更好，从自贡下来到永川，跟永川的朋友聚一天，19或20号返回老家。
From the mountains to Zigong, where the brine production of salt, better nutrition, from Zigong down to Yongchuan, with Yongchuan friends, 19 or 20 back home.
但接受拍摄就要符合“返乡”主题，不能绕路，这个计划暂时搁浅了。
But to be filmed was to meet the theme of "going home," not a detour, and the project temporarily ran aground.
也有一点好处，就是能早几天见到儿子。
There is also the advantage of seeing my son a few days earlier.
我儿子读二年级，平常是他奶奶带着。
My son is a sophomore, usually with his grandmother.
我曾经也是留守儿童，现在长时间出去打工，更觉得愧对他。
I was also a child left behind, now a long time out to work, more ashamed of him.
有一次开家长会，老师指定要孩子父母亲参加，不许奶奶代替，我就把活给推了，特意等着。
There was a parent-parent meeting, the teacher designated the children's parents to participate, do not allow grandmother to replace, I pushed the work, especially waiting.
看到别人的爸妈陪着孩子开学、过生日，他没有，他难过，我也难过。
To see someone else's parents accompany their children to school, birthday, he did not, he sad, I am sad.
但他挺懂事的。
But he's very sensible.
去年10月份，我骑摩托去中山的时候，他就问：“那你之后还骑回来吗？”现在每天早上，奶奶骑车20分钟把他送去读书，这么短一段路，他也感觉到冷，知道在路上会打瞌睡，他就说：“骑车太冷了，把车放在客运车上拉回来吧。
Last October, when I was riding my bike to Zhongshan, he asked, "Do you still ride back?" Now every morning, Grandma rides him to school for 20 minutes, and for such a short distance he feels cold and knows that he will doze off on the road.
”后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介高佳因为时间永远分岔，通向无数的将来。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
骑摩托车返乡的年轻人，路上想起宫崎骏。
A young man riding a motorcycle home remembers Hayao Miyazaki on his way home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "骑摩托车返乡的年轻人，路上想起宫崎骏";。
var msg _ title = & quot; young man with a motorcycle back home, remembering Miyazaki and his wife.;
var msg_desc = "下雨的时候，就想不知道什么时候天会变晴，骑到哪里可以变晴。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; When it rains, wonder when the weather clears and where it clears.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '张艺兴被闭麦前后：“电音元年”争夺战',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '六个少男少女在一个无所事事的中午',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
