专访王广发：快速诊断是当务之急。
Interview with Wang Guangfa: Rapid diagnosis is a top priority.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
王广发在2月3日晚上接受了《人物》的采访，这是他从新型冠状病毒肺炎中康复出院的第4天，也是他重新回到医院开始工作的第二天。
Wang was interviewed by People on the evening of February 3, the fourth day he was discharged from the new coronavirus pneumonia and the day after he returned to work.
作为北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任，他最初态度很谨慎，他说自己不想要再接受采访，但是，他愿意跟我谈一些技术上的问题。
As the director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, he was initially cautious and said he didn't want to be interviewed again, but he was willing to talk to me about technical issues.
他愿意以一个呼吸科的临床医生，以及一个亲历过新型冠状病毒肺炎的患者身份，分享他对这场突如其来的疾病的理解——面对一个未知的新发传染病，我们应该怎么去认识它、理解它、应对它？科学的对策是什么？所以，这篇文章的写作也是特殊的。
He is willing to share his understanding of this sudden disease as a respiratory clinician and a patient who has experienced the new coronavirus pneumonia - how we should recognize, understand, and respond to an unknown new infectious disease.
在这篇对话稿件里，我们保留了大量王广发教授提到的临床经验、操作建议、诊断思考。
In this dialogue article, we retain a large number of Professor Wang Guangfa mentioned clinical experience, operational advice, diagnostic thinking.
这对于非医学背景的读者而言大概会有些枯燥，但是在这个疫情肆虐的时期，有效的临床经验是最宝贵的资源。
This may be a bit dull for non-medical readers, but effective clinical experience is the most valuable resource in this era of epidemic.
希望这篇文章中所提到的操作细节能够对临床医生有所帮助，也能让不在一线的读者更多理解一种医学的细致思考方式。
Hopefully, the operational details mentioned in this article will be helpful to clinicians and help non-frontline readers to understand a medical and thoughtful way of thinking.
新型冠状病毒肺炎，对普通人来说是一场突如其来的冲击，我们慌张地学习着与它相关的有限知识，去理解它的复杂，与它的变化赛跑。
The new coronavirus pneumonia, for ordinary people is a sudden impact, we hastily learn the limited knowledge associated with it, to understand its complexity, to race with its changes.
我们希望科学家能够给我们一个完美答案，但是对他们来说，这也是一个需要不断发现、认知的巨大未知。
We hope that scientists can give us a perfect answer, but for them, it is a huge unknown that needs to be constantly discovered and recognized.
这是摆在现代医学面前的严峻挑战。
This is a serious challenge to modern medicine.
医学并不能天然地马上给出解药，但是只要我们诚实地面对未知，分享真实的经验，在专业的指导下，实践科学的方法路径，我们就能知道最终的答案。
Medicine is not a natural and immediate antidote, but as long as we honestly face the unknown, share real experiences, and practice the path of science under professional guidance, we will know the final answer.
以下是王广发与《人物》的对话。
The following is a dialogue between Wang Guangfa and People.
文｜李斐然编辑｜糖槭《人物》：我们在采访一些医生时，他们提到，诊断标准让他们遇到了很大的困难。
Yeg: When we interviewed some doctors, they mentioned that the diagnostic criteria had made them very difficult.
王广发：是这样的，新型冠状病毒肺炎这个病，疑诊的病例包括肺炎表现。
Wang Guangfa: Well, the new coronavirus pneumonia this disease, suspected cases including pneumonia symptoms.
虽说有一些轻症病例，有一些没有肺炎表现，但多数还是有肺炎的。
Although there have been some minor cases, and some have no symptoms of pneumonia, most of them have pneumonia.
所以现在有发烧、咳嗽、白细胞不高、淋巴细胞降低这些病毒性肺炎的表现，再加上流行病学史，我们就考虑是疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎。
So now we have fever, cough, low white blood cells, lymphocytes to reduce the performance of these viral pneumonia, coupled with an epidemiological history, we are thinking of a suspected new coronavirus pneumonia.
《人物》：这是疑似的标准。
PEOPLE: This is a suspect standard.
王广发：那么确诊呢，还是需要病原学的检测。
Wang Guangfa: Then the diagnosis, or the need for etiology testing.
病原学的检测现在可用的方法就是核酸的PCR检测或者基因测序。
Detection of etiology is now available through PCR or gene sequencing of nucleic acids.
但是基因测序的特点是特异性高，敏感度差，所以它在临床上其实不太实用。
But gene sequencing is characterized by high specificity and poor sensitivity, so it is not very practical clinically.
它主要用在特别重大病例的认定，比如各省的第一例病例认定建议基因测序，确保检测它一定是这个病毒。
It is mainly used in the identification of particularly serious cases, such as the first case identified in the provinces and the recommended genetic sequencing to ensure detection of the virus.
但是目前来讲，临床上最重要的还是核酸的PCR检测。
But for now, the most important thing clinically is PCR detection of nucleic acids.
PCR本身来讲，现在的技术比较成熟，很多单位如果具备了实验室条件，做PCR一般是没有问题的。
PCR itself, the current technology is more mature, if many units have laboratory conditions, do PCR is generally not a problem.
《人物》：但是临床医生现在卡在了核酸检测这件事上。
PEOPLE: But the clinician is now stuck in the matter of nucleic acid testing.
他们实际操作核酸检测的时候，遇到很大困难，有时候核酸测出来假阴性，测不出、测不对，有的需要反复两三次。
When they actually perform nucleic acid tests, they encounter great difficulties. Sometimes the nucleic acids are false negative, cannot be detected, cannot be detected, and some need to be repeated two or three times.
王广发：关于核酸检测阴性的问题，其实有很多技术层面的问题。
Wang Guangfa: On the negative nucleic acid test, there are many technical aspects of the problem.
比如，你的采样采得合不合适，也就是采样质量。
For example, your sampling is not appropriate, that is, the quality of the sample.
实际上我们有一些经验，就是你采样采得浅，它的阳性率就低。
In fact, we have some experience, that if you sample shallow, its positive rate is low.
你采样得采得深，可能阳性率就高。
If you sample deeply, you may have a high positive rate.
什么叫采样采得深？就是用咽拭子采样的时候，尽量深一些，特别注意蘸取分泌物的量。
What is deep sampling? When sampling with swabs, as deep as possible, pay special attention to the amount of secretion dipped.
因为我亲身经历了，我得病的时候护士给我采，采得很深，采得我非常不舒服、恶心，都要吐，但是我一采就是阳性的。
Because I personally experienced, I was sick when the nurse picked for me, very deep, I picked very uncomfortable, nausea, vomiting, but I picked up a positive.
采咽拭子，采得越深病人越不舒服，所以要提前跟病人说一声，让他有个心理准备，取得患者理解。
Pick up swabs, the deeper the patient is uncomfortable, so speak to the patient ahead of time to prepare him mentally to understand.
还有些病人会没有痰，这样没有痰的病人上呼吸道咽部病毒载量可能也是比较低的，这时候可以考虑用一下雾化吸入，做完雾化吸入以后，再留取痰液，这样也可能增加我们检测的准确性。
Some patients will not phlegm, so that pharyngeal virus load may also be relatively low, you can consider using aerosol inhalation, after the aerosol inhalation, and then leave phlegm, which may also increase the accuracy of our tests.
需要注意的一点是，做雾化吸入最好让他单独在一个房间，因为这个过程有可能会带病毒，所以不主张在发热门诊这种隔离措施不充分的地方来做。
One caveat is that it is best to leave him alone in a room for aerosol inhalation, as this process can carry a virus, so it is not recommended to do so in places where isolation measures such as fever clinics are inadequate.
有很多技术细节会影响我们的检测，所以，实验室检测并不是那么简单的。
There are a lot of technical details that can affect our tests, so laboratory testing is not that simple.
核酸检测试剂盒《人物》：有医生提到，现在最危险的一种状况是核酸测出来是阴性的，但CT看上去是阳性的，是毛玻璃，现在的处理是家庭留观。
Nucleic acid test kit People: Doctors have suggested that one of the most dangerous conditions is that nucleic acids are negative, but the CT looks positive, it's glass, and now it's a family visit.
王广发：我觉得对于这样的病人，如果临床有症状，影像学符合，虽说实验室检测阴性——但不知道他是做了几次是阴性的——可以考虑多采一两次（样）。
Wang Guangfa: I think if there are clinical symptoms, imaging is consistent, although the laboratory test negative - but did not know that he did a few times is negative - can consider more than one.
这对于还是以输入病例为主的省份的确是很有价值的，因为你一旦放走一个病人，假如他回家隔离不好，造成社区传播，那就有可能把输入性病例转化成本土型病例，本土型病例再扩展起来，就可能落地生根。
This is indeed valuable in a province where imported cases predominate, because if you release a patient, if he returns home in poor isolation, causing community transmission, it is possible to convert imported cases into native cases, which can then spread and take root.
落地生根后控制不住，那就容易出现第二个武汉。
When the ground takes root, it is easy to have a second Wuhan.
所以从防控角度讲，如果当地收治能力允许，对可疑病例建议更加严格的排查。
Therefore, from the point of view of prevention and control, stricter screening of suspected cases is recommended if local capacity allows.
但是像武汉地区，就不太一样了，因为这样的病人太多了。
But like Wuhan, it is not the same, because there are so many patients.
现在面临的问题我确实很理解，因为那天我看到电视上，武汉金银潭医院一天做300份的标本，要做到晚上12点多，检测人员非常辛苦。
Now I really understand the problem, because the other day I saw on TV, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital to do 300 samples a day, to do more than 12 p.m., very hard testing staff.
这个要解决怎么办？我想就是要向科技、要向创新要效率。
What to do with this? I think it is to technology, to innovation to be efficient.
《人物》：具体怎么做？王广发：我们想做一个研究，就是一种快速检测的方法。
People: What exactly? Wang Guangfa: We want to do a research, is a rapid test method.
它相当于一种床旁的PCR（注：又称即时检测POCT，是指病人在采样现场利用试剂盒或便携仪器即时进行的临床检测，是检验医学发展的一种新趋势），就是在床旁就可以做PCR，它现在是用于流感（病毒）检测的。
It is the equivalent of a bedside PCR (also known as Instant Detection POCT), which is a new trend in the development of medicine when a patient is tested on the spot using a kit or portable device. PCR can be done next to a bed and is now used for influenza (virus) testing.
这个在美国已经上市，而且（产品）在超市里都可以买到。
This one is already on sale in the United States and is available in supermarkets.
这种床旁PCR的流感检测，半个小时就出结果，是很快的。
The results of this bedside PCR flu test in half an hour are fast.
因为国家药监局要求对这种快速诊断试剂要做临床研究，所以我们本来就是准备好要和美国合作方做临床研究的，结果赶上这么一场疫情，所以我就强烈建议合作方和我们一起开发诊断新冠状病毒的方法。
Because of the NDA's request for clinical research on this rapid diagnostic reagent, we were ready to do clinical research with our US partner, only to catch up with such an outbreak, so I strongly recommend that the partners work with us to develop a diagnosis for the new coronavirus.
我觉得这真是特别需要。
I think it's really necessary.
我看到合作方给我提供的资料，（这种检测）对流感病毒的诊断敏感性和特异性几乎都是在95%。
I see the information provided to me by my partner that the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of influenza viruses is almost 95%.
这是一个很高的诊断效率了，我觉得值得推广。
This is a very high diagnostic efficiency, and I think it's worth promoting.
我建议他们迅速地开发新冠状病毒快速诊断的方法，他们已经答应了，所以我们想跟他们合作，尽快把这个方法建立起来，形成产品，能够推向我们前线，这是我们的一个良好愿望，这几天我一直在沟通这个事，希望能够把这个工作推动得快一点。
I suggest they quickly develop a new method for the rapid diagnosis of coronavirus, and they have already agreed to do so, so we want to work with them to establish this method as soon as possible, to form a product and to be able to push us to the front line.
当然，对它也要有一个合理的期待，它作为流感病毒检测能够达到95%的敏感度、特异度，但是它在新病毒上能不能达到，我还真不能百分之百打包票。
Of course, there should be a reasonable expectation that it can be tested for influenza viruses with 95% sensitivity and specificity, but I can't guarantee that it will be able to reach the new virus.
但是，我觉得成功的可能性要比你从一张白纸从头研发要快得多，而且把握更大。
But I think the chances of success are much faster and better than if you had developed it from scratch.
《人物》：你指的这种床旁PCR，就是像我这样的普通人，我去超市也可以买一个，在家里自己测？王广发：对，是这样的。
People: The kind of bedside PCR you mean, an ordinary person like me, I can buy one at the supermarket and take it at home? Wang Guangfa: Yes, it is.
它在美国获批，不单可以在医院用的，在家也可以用。
It is approved in the United States and can be used not only in hospitals but also at home.
就像流感的快速诊断试剂，现在流感检测抗原，其实自己在家也可以做。
Like the flu's rapid diagnostic reagent, now the flu detection antigen, you can actually do it at home.
现在的问题就是它的敏感度太低，也就是说，检测出来阳性只能说是，但是检出来阴性，你不能说不是。
The problem is that the sensitivity is too low, which means that positive tests can only be said to be yes, but negative tests, you can't say no.
就像警察抓贼似的，我从贼的兜里掏出来赃物了，我就说他是贼。
Like a thief, I took the loot out of the thief's pocket and I called him a thief.
但是有人怀疑他偷了，结果我把他抓着以后，从他身上没有搜到赃物，那么我作为警察判断，不能说他不是贼，但是我也不能把他抓起来。
But if he was suspected of stealing, and I caught him, and found nothing stolen from him, I, as a policeman, cannot say that he was not a thief, but I cannot arrest him either.
《人物》：你是怎么想到这个主意的？王广发：大家现在更加关注的是救治病人，但其实，一个很大的瓶颈是我们能不能迅速诊断病人，迅速根据诊断，把病人分流。
People: How did you come up with this idea? Wang Guangfa: People are more concerned with the treatment of patients, but in fact, a big bottleneck is whether we can diagnose patients quickly and divide them according to the diagnosis.
如果有一个很准确、快速的诊断方法，我们的效率就会大幅度的提高。
If we have a very accurate and rapid diagnostic method, our efficiency will be greatly improved.
因为我曾经在武汉，我看到的问题就是很多病人积压在发热门诊，这里面肯定有病人，但是也肯定有不是这种病的病人，他们混在一起，实际上就会互相传染。
Because I was in Wuhan, I saw a lot of patients in the fever clinic, there must be patients, but there must be non-patients, they are mixed together, will actually infect each other.
SARS的经历和这次的经历我都看到了这种现象——当大量的病人涌入一个狭小的空间，又没有办法去分流病人，保持病人之间的空间距离，那么大家都拥挤在一起，病毒浓度高了，医生也在里面，这时候就容易发生交叉感染。
The SARS experience and this one I've seen is that when large numbers of patients swarm into a small space, unable to separate patients and keep patients away from each other, they crowd together, the virus concentrations are high and doctors are in it, making them susceptible to cross-infection.
所以我强调诊断，迅速诊断，迅速把病人分流。
So I emphasized diagnosis, rapid diagnosis, and rapid diversion of patients.
另外，我看到武汉建了两所医院，扩张了很多病房，但似乎仍然满足不了病人的需要，其实这里面要提高床位的使用效率，该出院的病人及时出院，但是要有可靠的检测方法，去判断病人该不该出院。
In addition, I saw Wuhan built two hospitals and expanded many wards, but it still does not seem to meet the needs of patients, which is to improve the efficiency of the use of beds, the discharged patients timely discharged from hospital, but there should be reliable testing methods to determine whether patients should be discharged from the hospital.
所有人（的采样）都要送到CDC检测？肯定不现实。
Does everyone have to be sent to the CDC for testing? It's definitely not realistic.
像金银潭医院，一天检测300份标本工作人员都得干到12点，你想想这个压力有多大。
Like the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, which tests 300 specimens a day until 12: 00, think about how stressful it is.
所以现在一定要重视对快速诊断方法的快速研发，研发出来迅速评价，评价有效，迅速地推到我们前线使用，迅速地减轻前方的收治病人的一些压力，我觉得这是当务之急。
So now we have to focus on the rapid development of rapid diagnostic methods, developed rapid evaluation, effective evaluation, quickly pushed to our front line to use, quickly relieve some of the forward pressure on patients, I think this is the most urgent.
《人物》：我理解上这种跟公共卫生相关的产品，它的审批以及制造流程可能会比较长。
PEOPLE: I understand that this public health-related product is likely to take a long time to be approved and manufactured.
那么类似于床旁PCR这种快速检测产品，预估它多久能落地？王广发：我觉得检测方法相对简单，因为它不涉及到进入人体，这个实际上是可以很快。
So how often does a fast-track product like a bedside PCR expect it to land? Wang Guangfa: I think it's relatively simple because it doesn't involve getting into the body.
只要我们证实它的检测稳定，在实验室操作具有可行性，它的质量控制得到保障，我们就可以在临床上去检测这个标本。
As long as we prove that it is stable, feasible to operate in the laboratory, and that its quality control is guaranteed, we can test the specimen clinically.
如果是有一定的差距，我们会分析在什么情况下我们用它，什么时候需要再做PCR进行验证，这样会有一个非常好的效应是，我们可以大大减少送检实验室的压力，实验室的压力会大幅度减轻。
If there is a gap, we will analyze the circumstances in which we use it and when we need to do PCR validation. A very good effect is that we can greatly reduce the pressure on the testing laboratory, the pressure on the laboratory will be greatly reduced.
当然，这个快速检测方法也需要培训，但因为这种比较简单，培训起来比较快，那么经过培训的人员就会比较多。
Of course, this rapid test method also requires training, but because it is simpler and faster to train, there will be more trained personnel.
这是真的我们特别特别需要。
It's true We're especially in need of it.
《人物》：这种快速检测方法的技术原理是什么？王广发：它已经有了专利，是成熟的技术，美国FDA（注：美国食品药品监督管理局）已经批准它在流感上的应用。
People: What is the technical principle of this rapid test? Wang Guangfa: It already has a patent, it's a mature technology, and the FDA has approved its use for influenza.
它实际上是一种方法。
It is actually a method.
这个产品有一种设计，电路的设计，元器件的设计，让它接上电源以后，能够自动做分析，这是它的核心技术。
This product has a design, circuit design, component design, let it connect to the power supply, can do analysis automatically, this is its core technology.
为什么我提出来它可能用于新型冠状病毒的检测呢？因为流感病毒检测的是它的核酸，新型冠状病毒检测的也是它的核酸，采用的都是PCR技术，也就是我给你一个模板，然后我用多聚酶进行扩增，就象用个模子，复制很多的砖瓦一样。
Why did I suggest that it might be used to test for the new coronavirus, which detects its nucleic acid, and the new coronavirus detects its nucleic acid, using PCR technology.
假设原来是一根链，一个链我很难通过现有技术直接检测出来，但是扩增几十个循环后，可能变成很多条一样的核酸链，那时候再检测就很容易检测出来。
Assuming it turns out to be a chain, a chain that I can hardly detect directly with existing technology, but after expanding dozens of loops, it could turn into many more nucleic acid strands that can then be easily detected.
这个技术用于新型冠状病毒的检测，我只是说我给它的模板不一样。
This technique is used to detect the new coronavirus, and I'm just saying I gave it a different template.
给它流感病毒，它检测流感病毒；我给它新型冠状病毒，它就检测新型冠状病毒。
Give it the flu virus, it detects the influenza virus; I give it a new coronavirus, and it detects a new coronavirus.
《人物》：这个成熟专利技术在中国落地，可能最花时间的环节是什么？王广发：我觉得要把实验条件摸稳。
People: What is probably the most time-consuming part of this mature proprietary technology in China? Wang Guangfa: I think we need to get the experimental conditions right.
这需要拿一些临床的标本进行实验，所以我建议他们赶紧在国内做这一方面的研究。
This requires some clinical specimens to be tested, so I recommend that they do the research at home.
一旦把它弄好，下一步就是把它形成产品，拿产品推向临床试用，我们叫做临床试验。
Once you get it right, the next step is to make it into a product and push it into clinical trials, which we call clinical trials.
做完临床试验，对比它和PCR的结果，看它的敏感度、特异度。
After clinical trials, compare the results with those of PCR to see if it is sensitive and specific.
我觉得放低了说，80%以上就很好了，如果它真的能像流感（检测）那样超过90%，那对疫情防控真的太有用了，至少能够更快地把病人进行分类。
I think it would be nice to say more than 80%, and if it could really be more than 90% like influenza, it would really be too useful for disease prevention and control, at least to classify patients faster.
工作人员正在进行核酸检测图源CGTN记者团视频《人物》：问题是现在特别是在湖北，有很多病人难就难在无法确诊。
Staff are working on a video of the CGTN press corps as a source of nucleic acid testing.
他们的一个现实困难是，疑似的时候……王广发：我知道，就是疑似的时候要做核酸检测，但是又做不了核酸检测，然后病人又不敢放走，就积压在发热门诊或者隔离病房，又新来了一些病人，然后呢，没有空间收治。
One of their real difficulties is the suspected time... Wang Guangfa: I know, when suspected to do nucleic acid tests, but can not do nucleic acid tests, then patients do not dare to release, then piled up in the fever clinic or isolation ward, some new patients, and then, there is no room for treatment.
我明白，我太了解武汉现在的这个情况。
I understand, I know this Wuhan situation too much.
因为在武汉的时候，我看发热门诊已经看到了这个苗头，在北京SARS疫情的时候，我真是亲身体验到了同样的情况。
Because in Wuhan, I see the fever clinic has seen this beginning, in Beijing SARS outbreak, I really experienced the same situation.
那时候在北大医院，急诊室的病人到院子里去打点滴，这就说明收不下，这病人该怎么办啊。
At Peking University Hospital, emergency room patients went to the yard to take a drip, which means that the patient can not collect, what should the patient do.
《人物》：医疗资源已经严重过载了。
PEOPLE: Medical resources are already severely overstretched.
王广发：对，实际上从北京的经验来讲，那是非常影响到疫情控制的重要一环，武汉的情况我觉得现在已经是过了那个时期，但就是现在仍然面临着类似的问题。
Wang Guangfa: Yes, in fact, from the experience of Beijing, it is very important to control the epidemic, Wuhan situation I think has passed that period, but even now is still facing similar problems.
《人物》：所以假定这个快速检测方法能行，那么从现在开始，到新的快速检测方法落地，这中间我们有更好的缓冲解决方案吗？王广发：影响核酸检测结果的两个因素，一个是试剂，我不是实验室的专家，我没有太多的发言权。
Do we have a better buffer between now and the arrival of a new rapid detection method? Wang Guangfa: One is reagent, I'm not an expert in the lab, I don't have a lot of say.
但是这里面有一些技术上操作的要点，各地做的时候要注意这些问题。
But there are a few technical operational points here and there that need to be looked at as you work around the world.
比如，我们现在发现一些病人表现的是上呼吸道症状，打喷嚏、流鼻涕，所以这种情况下采鼻拭子有可能会阳性（准确率）更高。
For example, we now find that some patients show symptoms of the upper respiratory tract, sneezing or runny noses, so picking a nose swab in this case is likely to be more positive (accurate).
这个在卫生部最新的指南当中已经提出来了，原来我们写的是咽拭子，现在写鼻咽拭子，大家要结合病人的症状来决定。
This is what the ministry of health said in its latest guidelines. We wrote swabs, and now we write nasopharyngeal swabs, depending on the patient's symptoms.
最开始我们实际上不太认识这个病的全貌，当时觉得鼻塞、打喷嚏、流鼻涕不是它的特点，我自己得了以后深深体会到，有认识上的变化。
We didn't really know the full extent of the disease at first. It didn't have a stuffy nose, sneezing or a runny nose.
理论上哪个地方病情重，你就应该采哪个地方的分泌物。
Where in theory you are seriously ill, you should collect secretions from any place.
但这是我的个人经验，没有经过特别严格的研究。
But this is my personal experience and has not been the subject of particularly rigorous research.
另一个因素是病人的因素。
Another factor is the patient factor.
比如有的人在疾病特别早期，症状很轻，他的病毒载量很低，这时候采样有可能就测不到。
For example, if a person has a mild symptom in the early stages of a disease and his viral load is low, sampling may not be possible at this time.
比如留痰的采样方法，尽量深咳留痰。
For example, the sputum sampling method, as deep as possible cough to keep phlegm.
需要特别注意，千万不要在封闭的空间里面留痰，要注意对其他人的保护。
Special care must be taken not to leave phlegm in enclosed spaces and to protect others.
像那次晚上我留痰，就是自己跑到室外，找个没人的地方深咳。
If I was phlegm that night, I would run outside and find a place where no one was coughing.
假阴性、假阳性，我们不能完全避免，所以碰到一个阴性结果，大家要综合分析，把所有环节都考虑到，这样才能减少误判。
False negative, false positive, we can not completely avoid, so a negative result, we have to be comprehensive analysis, take all links into account, so that the miscarriage of justice can be reduced.
我们的临床大夫要很细致地去询问，你是上呼吸道症状为主，还是下呼吸道症状为主，问得细一点，这很重要。
Our clinician should be very meticulous to ask, you are upper respiratory symptoms or lower respiratory symptoms mainly, ask a little more carefully, this is very important.
比如采鼻拭子的同时，如果能同时查一个咽拭子，或者有痰再采一个痰液，采得多了，阳性（准确）率可能也会高。
For example, if a pharynx swab can be checked at the same time, or if sputum is picked up with another sputum, the positive (accurate) rate may also be higher.
从临床上我们留标本，实际上是有一些讲究的。
From the clinical, we keep specimens, in fact there are some fastidious.
标本采样水平提高了，诊断阳性率就会提高。
A higher level of specimen sampling would increase the rate of positive diagnosis.
《人物》：今天有医生提出，很有经验的大夫是可以看出来肺部CT差异的。
PEOPLE: A doctor today suggested that an experienced doctor could tell the difference in lung CT.
能不能把这个也加入诊断标准，和核酸检测并列二选一？王广发：这不行。
Could you add this to the diagnostic criteria and check for nucleic acids? Wang Guangfa: That's not right.
为什么不行呢？因为有类似表现的肺炎其实还挺多的，就是有些病毒性肺炎完全可以是这样的，也可以是毛玻璃，所以不能以此作为确诊的标准。
Why not? Because there is a lot of pneumonia with similar performance, that is, some viral pneumonia can be this way, or can be a wool glass, so it is not a standard for diagnosis.
肺部CT是疑似的标准，你有了影像学特征，列为疑似，这个没有问题，按照疑似进行隔离、排查，甚至进行相应治疗，这都没有问题。
The pulmonary CT is the suspected standard, you have the imaging features listed as suspected, there is no problem, according to the suspected isolation, screening, or even corresponding treatment, this is not a problem.
但是如果你把病人仅仅依据影像学判断确诊，这存在一个风险，就有可能把不是新冠肺炎的无关病人诊断为确诊了，和其他病人混在一起交叉感染，结果就算他不是，最后也得是了。
But if you diagnose a patient solely on the basis of imaging findings, there is a risk that unrelated patients who are not New Crown Pneumonia may be diagnosed with a cross-infection with other patients, and even if he is not, it will have to be.
这样是不可取的。
This is not desirable.
我很理解，为什么医生提出来这样的建议，就是因为他们觉得检测能力不足，卡在那儿了。
I quite understand why doctors make such suggestions because they feel they don't have the ability to detect and are stuck there.
我很理解很理解，真的很理解，所以我也是真的特别特别积极地推动（快速检测）。
I understand it very well and really understand it, so I am really especially active in pushing [quick testing].
我看到有一些公司已经推出来了快速诊断试剂，我就讲，尽快地把这些试剂，赶紧评价，评价真实有效了，赶紧推到前方去，真正地帮助我们前线的医务人员，减轻一些负担。
I've seen companies that have come up with rapid diagnostic reagents, so I'm going to say, evaluate these reagents as quickly as possible, evaluate them quickly, evaluate them realistically and effectively, and move forward quickly to really help our front-line medical staff and lighten some of the burden.
《人物》：你看自己的肺片能看得出来是新冠肺炎吗？王广发：我看我的肺片是很像了，但是我们对这些肺片的总体描述是什么呢？叫非典型肺炎，有影像学特征，白细胞不高，肺内啰音不多。
People: Can you see the new crown pneumonia in your lungs? Wang Guangfa: I see my lungs are very much alike, but what is our general description of these lungs?
临床医生的判断，判断来判断去也就是到病毒性肺炎，然而它到底是流感，还是新冠状病毒肺炎，实际上我们不知道。
To judge by the clinician's judgment, we do not know whether it is influenza or new coronavirus pneumonia.
这是也是我想要跟大家做的一个知识普及，其实临床大夫不容易，他有很多临床思维，一般人是理解不了的。
This is also I would like to do with you to do a general knowledge, in fact, clinical doctors are not easy, he has a lot of clinical thinking, the general people are not able to understand.
过去我们同行有一些是不搞临床的专家，就说，那个SARS你们怎么就认定不了呢？你们临床（怎么做不到）说是就是，说不是就不是。
In the past, we've had a few non-clinical experts in the field, so we said, 'How come you didn't know that SARS?' Yes, yes, no.
我就跟他解释，我可以判断出来它是一个病毒性肺炎，它有流行病学史，我最多就断定到它是一个传染性的病毒性肺炎，再往深入我就没法定了。
I explained to him that I could tell that it was a viral pneumonia, that it had an epidemiological history, and that the most I could conclude was that it was an infectious viral pneumonia, and I had no legal basis to go any further.
它到底是腺病毒、流感病毒、SARS冠状病毒，还是其他的，我就没法定了。
Is it adenovirus, influenza virus, SARS coronavirus, or whatever, I have no legal status.
我们临床医学并不是一加一等于二那么简单，临床医生的判断有时候真的是需要实验室，它需要考虑很多因素，做一个综合的判断。
Our clinical medicine is not so simple as one plus one equals two. The clinician's judgment sometimes really requires a laboratory. It needs to consider many factors and make a comprehensive judgment.
图源武汉协和医院微信公众号《人物》：这意味着，尤其是面对一个未知的新发疾病，临床大夫的经验最终一定需要落在像核酸检测这种病原学的诊断上，才能给它最后盖章？王广发：对，因为我们现在处的时代已经不是那个时代了，像我们几十年前诊断肺炎，大概也没有办法去做那么多的病原学的检测。
This means that, especially in the face of an unknown new disease, the clinician's experience must eventually fall on an etiological diagnosis such as nucleic acid testing before it can be stamped? Wang Guangfa: Yes, because we are now in a different era.
现在我们办法多了，才能发现这些传染性肺炎。
Now we have more ways to find these infectious pneumonia.
《人物》：但是为什么现在会有这样的一种认知落差，就是一方面我看到咱们有了很好的技术，有试剂盒，有好的预警系统，但结果看上去还跟SARS的时候很像？王广发：不一样，不一样，那明显的不一样了。
People: But why is there such a cognitive gap right now when I see that we have good technology, a kit, and a good early warning system, but the results look very much like SARS? Wang Guangfa: No, different, that's obviously different.
现在我们诊断基本上都要依据核酸检测阳性才能定，这和SARS当时真的完全不一样了。
Now our diagnosis is basically based on a positive nucleic acid test, which is really different from SARS at the time.
因为我是两次的亲历者，所以这一点我的感受很强，我们的诊断方法是不一样的，这次的方法更加精准。
Since I have been there twice, I feel this very strongly, and our diagnosis is different, this time with greater precision.
但是，差别在于这一次的疫情的确是和SARS不太一样的。
The difference, though, is that this time the outbreak is not quite the same as SARS.
比如SARS期间，我不敢说百分之百，至少很大程度上是没有（这次疫情里出现的）隐性感染者，或者特别轻症的感染者，甚至是无症状的隐匿病例。
During SARS, for example, I'm afraid to say 100%, at least for the most part, that there are no hidden infections, or particularly mild cases, or even asymptomatic occult cases.
别看它轻，它在流行病学上意义很大，就是因为它排毒，它排毒别人还警觉不了，因为不发烧嘛，它就很容易传。
Although light, it is of great epidemiological significance, because it detoxification, it is not alert to others, because it is not feverish, it is easy to spread.
（注：根据卫健委的第五版诊疗方案，目前所见传染源主要是新型冠状病毒感染的患者。
(Note: According to the Fifth Edition of the Wei Bodyguard Commission, the source of infection is mainly patients with new coronavirus infection.
无症状感染者也可能成为传染源。
Symptomatic infections can also be a source of infection.
）SARS的时候我们还真的是特别关注有没有这样的病人，至少我们没有看到明确的这种病例。
) When SARS came up, we were really concerned about whether there were any such patients, at least we didn't see a clear case of this.
这次的新冠状病毒感染，轻症的病人比较多，这说明了什么？这些轻症病人容易被忽略，容易造成这个疾病传播，我觉得这是很重要的不同点之一。
What does this new coronavirus infection show? I think it is one of the most important differences because these patients are easily overlooked and prone to spread of the disease.
《人物》：我刚才指的是人们所感受到的恐慌和无措，是一样的。
PEOPLE: I was just talking about the kind of panic and panic people feel, the same thing.
王广发：恐慌呢，我觉得当时我们在北京，武汉人是感受不到的。
Wang Guangfa: Panic, I think we were in Beijing, Wuhan people do not feel.
其实北京当时的情况和武汉的情况，从人的心态上来讲是相似的，大家都比较紧张，比较恐惧，这个可以理解，因为疫情都是比较严重，但是实际上大家还应该有信心。
In fact, the situation in Beijing and Wuhan at that time, from the mentality of the people is similar, we are more nervous, more afraid, this is understandable, because the epidemic is more serious, but in fact everyone should have confidence.
我们现在的防控措施是应该能够把疫情控制下来的，只不过我们需要耐心，需要等一段时间，我们的防控的这个效果起作用，有一定的延迟。
Our current control measures should be able to bring the epidemic under control, but we need patience, it will take a while, and the effect of our control is working, with some delay.
比如说我把所有发病的病人都收进去了，但是外面还有没发病的病人，会随着潜伏期逐渐出现，假如我们把所有病人都找到了，那么14天以后就会有一个明显的新发病例减少。
For example, I take in all patients with the disease, but there are patients outside who do not develop, and with the incubation period, if we find all the patients, there will be a significant decrease in new cases after 14 days.
当然这是假设，我们把所有的病人都收进去，现在看有一定的困难，但是你把大多数病人收进去，也会对疫情有好处。
Of course it's supposed to be that we take in all the patients, and it's going to be a bit difficult right now, but if you take most of the patients in, it will also be good for the outbreak.
随着又在扩建医院，又去了一批医疗队员，大家还是在加强这个力度，所以我相信武汉会逐渐往下走，出现拐点，这个是我们期待的。
With the expansion of the hospital and the arrival of a number of medical team members, we are still strengthening this strength, so I believe Wuhan will gradually downward, the inflection point, this is what we expect.
《人物》：你现在怎么理解这种病？现在有一种情绪是困惑，看到现在公布的数据，一方面看到它很强，传播途径越来越多，飞沫、接触、现在连门把手上也可以检测到了，但另一方面很多致病表现是轻症，全国病死率不到3%。
People: What do you think of the disease now? There is a feeling of bewilderment, seeing the data now published, on the one hand, seeing it strong, spreading it more and more, foaming, touching, and now even on the doorknobs, but on the other hand, many of its manifestations are mild, with a national fatality rate of less than 3%.
这是不是有点像有一点重的流感？王广发：不对，不是这样，流感光看病死率，可能觉得没什么，一般在1%以下。
Is it a little bit like a bit of flu? Wang Guangfa: No, not so, the flow of light to see the death rate, may feel nothing, generally less than 1%.
死亡率每10万人1.4-16.7人，可是流感总数多，涉及人口特别多。
The mortality rate is between 1.4 and 16.7 per 100,000, but the total number of influenza cases is high, and the population is particularly large.
它的绝对死亡人数，那一看，全世界每年几万到几十万人啊，那就相当可怕了。
Its absolute death toll, then, tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of people a year around the world, that's pretty scary.
而现在的这个疫情，到现在武汉地区病死率超过3%，相对来讲病情比较重。
But now this epidemic situation, to the present Wuhan region disease mortality rate of more than 3%, relative to the disease is more serious.
不是说病情重、病情危急，疫情就严重，站的角度不一样。
Not that the disease is serious, critical, the epidemic situation is serious, the point of view is different.
我觉得还是得从科学上去理解这个疾病，其实不是那么简单的。
I think we still have to understand the disease from a scientific point of view, it is not so simple.
《人物》：我们对它应该的警惕来自于它是一个我们并不完全理解未知疾病。
PEOPLE: We should be wary of it because it is an unknown disease that we do not fully understand.
王广发：对，它是一个新的疾病，我们才刚刚认识它的一点。
Wang Guangfa: Yes, it is a new disease. We just got to know something about it.
我们主要是怕它什么呢？怕它再有一些基因的突变。
What are we mainly afraid of? We fear that it will have some genetic mutations.
像钟南山院士，他一直怀疑有没有超级传播者，就是怕它基因逐渐变异，变异完了以后就特别容易感染人。
Like Academician Zhong Nan Shan, he has always suspected that there is no super-disseminator, is afraid of its genetic mutation, after the mutation is particularly vulnerable to infection.
为什么大家当时对流感大流行特别恐惧，实际上美州的新发流感要远超过我们现在这个疫情的损失，虽然它总的病死率并不高，但是涉及影响面太大了。
Why was the flu pandemic so feared that, in fact, the new flu in the United States far outweighed the loss of the epidemic we now have, although the overall fatality rate was not high, but the implications were too great.
大家恐惧的就是它这种传染性，如果再整合出现像我们讲的禽流感，高致病的禽流感人群的病死率大概在50%到60%。
The fear is that it is contagious, and if we recombine the appearance of avian influenza as we speak, the mortality rate of the highly pathogenic avian influenza population will probably be between 50% and 60%.
如果有一个疾病能够像流感一样传播，而它的致病性又可以像禽流感这么严重，那就非常可怕了。
It would be terrible if a disease could spread like the flu and its pathogenicity could be as severe as avian flu.
所以我们应该警惕的是这个。
So we should be on the lookout for this.
但是目前来讲，看来这个病毒至少它的致病性没有那么强，它的传播肯定不如流感。
But for now, it seems the virus is at least less pathogenic and certainly not as contagious as the flu.
《人物》：如果不是有这样的一个疫情，本来冬季这个时候您会是在主攻什么样的病？王广发：我在医院的这个危重呼吸科，专攻疑难危重病，但因为我们很多是外地病人，现在这个阶段，病人来就诊的少了。
If it hadn't been for the outbreak, what kind of illness would you be dealing with at this time of winter? Wang Guangfa: This critical respiratory unit in the hospital specializes in difficult and dangerous diseases, but because many of us are out-of-town patients, patients now come less often.
我们现在全院已经上班了，我也已经上班了。
We're all at work now, and I'm already at work.
其实我们准备着再去派出医疗队支援武汉，我们已经有了两批的医疗队员，我们科的两位副主任都已经在武汉了，我们院长也在武汉。
In fact, we are ready to send medical teams to support Wuhan, we have two groups of medical team members, our two vice-directors have been in Wuhan, our dean is in Wuhan.
家里（北京）工作还在进行，但是我们还是准备着随时再把人员派到武汉前线去。
Work is still going on at home, but we are ready to send our men to Wuhan at any time.
因为疫情比较紧张，昨天卫健委召开一个讨论第五版的治疗方案的会，我昨天就出去开会了。
Yesterday, I went out for a meeting with the health committee to discuss the treatment plan for the fifth edition, because the epidemic was rather tense.
因为有一部分在武汉，像钟院士在广州，专家组大部分人又在北京，我们是开的视频会议，见到很多老朋友，见的钟院士、王辰院士和李兰娟院士，我们都很高兴，他们也很高兴我能那么快出院。
Since some of them are in Wuhan, like Academician Zhong in Guangzhou, and most of the experts are in Beijing, we are holding a videoconference. We met many old friends, such as Academician Chung, Academician Wang Chen and Academician Li Lan Juan.
另外我们还肩负着北京的疫情防控，压力也是相当大的。
In addition, we are also shouldering Beijing's epidemic prevention and control, the pressure is also considerable.
《人物》：从医学统计数据上来看，看到哪些指征或者哪种表现的时候，我们就可以放心地出来彼此见面了？王广发：我觉得这个时间可能还要比较长一点，至少我们要看到疫情的拐点。
People: When we look at medical statistics and see what signs or manifestations, we can safely meet each other? Wang Guangfa: I think it may be a little longer, at least we need to see the inflection point of the epidemic.
疫情的拐点是什么呢？我们现在的新增病例还在增加，那么，直到有一天我们看到了新增的病例在减少，这时候就出现拐点了。
What is the inflection point of the epidemic? We are now seeing an increase in new cases, so until one day we see a decrease in new cases, and then there is an inflection point.
我们什么时候就安全了呢？我们看到新增的病例逐渐没有了，这时候才可以说比较安全了。
When are we going to be safe? We're seeing new cases gradually disappear, and it's safe to say so.
大家关注一下每天的这个数字，对疫情的判断是有一定帮助的。
Everybody pays attention to this number every day, it is helpful to judge the epidemic situation.
但疫情的走势和我们的措施是否到位，社会人口的流动等是有关系的，多种因素决定了疫情的走向，现在还很难下明确的结论何时疫情才能完全控制。
However, the trend of the epidemic and whether our measures are in place, social and demographic mobility, and so on are related, a variety of factors determine the course of the epidemic, it is difficult to draw a definitive conclusion as to when the epidemic will be fully under control.
另外我想说，个人是我们防控疾病最重要的一道防线。
And I would like to say that the individual is our most important line of defense against disease.
政府有责任，我们的各种医疗机构有责任，但是最后还得落实到个人。
It is the responsibility of the Government and of our various medical institutions, but ultimately it is the individual.
对个人的健康的负责，这是最后一道防线。
Responsibility for one's health is the last line of defence.
图源B站UP主林晨同学视频我们关心科学和技术，如有相关的经验、启发、困惑希望沟通，欢迎联系lifeiran09@163.com或者微信号goodtimemusic没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Welcome to Lifeiran 09 @ 163.com or the microsignal goodtimemusic. More exciting stories are waiting for you to focus on People in 2-D code.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访王广发：快速诊断是当务之急。
Interview with Wang Guangfa: Rapid diagnosis is a top priority.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专访王广发：快速诊断是当务之急";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; rapid diagnosis.
var msg_desc = "我强调诊断，迅速诊断，迅速把病人分流。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I emphasized diagnosis, rapid diagnosis, and rapid diversion.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
