生下儿子后，大年初一我确诊了新冠肺炎。
After giving birth to my son, I confirmed the new crown pneumonia on New Year's Day.
狐狸罐头。
Canned fox.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：正月初一，武汉产妇刘露露被确诊新冠肺炎，5天前她刚刚生下一名男婴。
Wu Lulu, a Wuhan woman who gave birth to a baby boy five days ago, was diagnosed with pneumonia on January 1.
她是武汉大学中南医院产科第一例确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎患者，到今天仍在经历生命的考验。
She is the first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia in the obstetrics department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital.
文 |陈怡含编辑 |林鹏除夕夜，一位新型冠状病毒肺炎高度疑似患者在武汉大学中南医院成功生子。
At the end of New Year's Eve, a newly diagnosed patient with coronavirus pneumonia was born at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital.
（图片来源：梨视频，图文无关）对刘露露来说，眼下正在经历的是一个万万想不到的“月子”。
(Source: Pear video, photo and text irrelevant) For Liu Lulu, what she's going through is a "moon" beyond her wildest expectations.
作为一个准妈妈，她曾无数次想过应该怎样坐月子。
As a expectant mother, she had wondered many times how she should go about getting pregnant.
那是女人“元气大伤的时候”，需要很多营养。
It was a time when women were "bruised" and needed a lot of nutrition.
但是现在，生下儿子后，她被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，只能待在隔离病房里，吃医院送来的盒饭。
But now, after giving birth to her son, she has been diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia and has to stay in an isolation ward, eating a box of hospital meals.
因为家人被隔离在家，电动吸奶器无法送去医院，涨奶后，她的身体更加不适。
As the family was isolated at home, the electric milksucker could not be sent to the hospital, after the milk, she was even more ill.
更糟糕的是，其余亲朋无一在武汉，她甚至找不到一个可以帮她把刚出生的孩子从医院接走的人。
To make matters worse, none of her other relatives were in Wuhan, and she couldn't even find anyone to help her take her newborn baby out of the hospital.
2020年的除夕夜，武汉大学中南医院产科的手术室里，一位新型冠状病毒肺炎高度疑似患者成功生下一名婴儿。
On New Year's Eve 2020, a highly suspected patient with a new coronavirus pneumonia gave birth to a baby in the operating room of the hospital's obstetrics department in Wuhan University.
医护人员身穿白色防护服进行手术的画面被媒体传到网上，因纪录片《生门》被大众熟知的产科主任李家福戴着口罩说，自从1月20日武汉市卫健委发布肺炎疫情定点医院信息后，截至当时，他们陆续在七位发热的孕产妇中排查出了两位高度疑似患者。
Medical staff dressed in white protective clothing were posted online, said Li Jiaofu, director of obstetrics and gynecology, well-known for his documentary Shengmen, wearing a mask. As of January 20, two highly suspected cases had been picked up among seven febrile women since Wuhan's health committee issued information on the hospital.
大年初一的上午，作为两名高度疑似患者之一，刘露露的核酸检测结果为阳性。
New Year's Day morning, as one of the two highly suspected patients, Liu Lulu's nucleic acid test results are positive.
1月20日，怀孕37周的刘露露因为肝功能异常、心肌酶高转入中南医院，剖腹产生下一名男婴。
On January 20, Liu Lulu, 37 weeks pregnant, was transferred to a hospital in the south-central region with abnormal liver function and high myocardial enzymes.
术后第三天凌晨，本该在几个小时后出院的她出现发热症状，医生怀疑是新型冠状病毒肺炎，将她隔离观察。
In the early morning hours of the third day of surgery, she was released a few hours later with fever symptoms. Doctors suspected a new coronavirus pneumonia and isolated her for observation.
刘露露入院的时候，没有人把她和新型冠状病毒肺炎联系在一起。
When Liu was admitted to hospital, no one linked her to the new coronavirus pneumonia.
“现在大家都知道了，这个肺炎早期不一定发烧。
"Now we all know that this pneumonia does not necessarily have a fever in its early stages.
当时大家的认识并没有现在充分，她没有发烧、乏力、咳嗽、腹泻，早期最主要的四大临床表现都没有。
She had no fever, fatigue, cough, diarrhea, and none of the four major early clinical manifestations.
”随着对疫情的认知不断提高，结合与其他医生的业务交流，李家福认为，刘露露入院时检验指标的异常应该与新型冠状病毒有关。
"As knowledge of the outbreak increased and business exchanges with other doctors intensified, Li suggested that the abnormalities in Lulu's admission criteria should be linked to the new coronavirus.
刘露露成了中南医院产科第一例确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
Liu Lulu became the first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia in the obstetrics department of Zhongnan Hospital.
与此同时，为她取样的助理护士长开始居家进行医学观察。
Meanwhile, the assistant head nurse who sampled her began medical observation at home.
刘露露对此并不知情，她不仅要打起精神和病毒对抗，还不得不面对另外一些棘手的问题。
Without Liu's knowledge, she not only had to fight the virus, but also had to deal with other thorny issues.
以下是刘露露的口述：大年初一确诊我的预产期在2月，正月十五的样子。
The following is Liu Lulu's dictation: On the first day of New Year's Day, my due date is February, the 15th of the first month.
去年12月，做常规产检的时候，谷丙转氨酶的值有一点点高，医生说不需要做特别处理。
Last December, when the routine check-up was done, the glutaminase had a slightly higher value and doctors said no special treatment was needed.
到1月19号，差不多快足月了，医生让我复查一下这个指标，结果就很吓人了——正常的值是0-40，但是我的值飙到了一千多，快两千，肝功能极度异常、心肌酶高，医生当即就让我住院了。
On January 19th, almost full term, the doctor asked me to review the measure and it was scary - the normal value was 0-40, but my score was more than a thousand, nearly two thousand, extremely abnormal liver function, high cardiac enzymes, and the doctor immediately admitted me to the hospital.
我并不是在中南医院建的档，而是在普仁医院，从我们家到那里走路只要15分钟。
I didn't build it at Zhongnan Hospital, but at Puren Hospital. It's only 15 minutes walk from our house.
我一直规规矩矩地产检，自己从没有感觉到明显的不舒服，胎心也都很正常。
I have always been orderly property inspection, I have never felt obvious discomfort, fetal heart is very normal.
后来产检医院的主任找我谈话，建议我转上级医院，先把孩子生下来，再做治疗。
Later, the director of the maternity hospital to talk to me, advised me to transfer to a higher hospital, the baby was born, and then do treatment.
我们就转去中南医院的产科。
We're going to the obstetrics department at the south central hospital.
1月20号下午，我剖腹产生下一个男孩。
On the afternoon of January 20th, I gave birth to the next boy by Caesarean section.
手术持续了一个多小时，还算顺利。
The operation lasted more than an hour and went smoothly.
术后，我住进了三人病房。
After the surgery, I was admitted to a three-person ward.
我的妈妈和婆婆从外地急急忙忙赶过来，准备照顾我和孩子。
My mother and mother-in-law hurried from the field to take care of me and my children.
起初我没有出现什么症状，正常地进行产后恢复。
At first I did not have any symptoms, normal postpartum recovery.
孩子一出生就被带到了新生儿科，我没见到。
The baby was brought to the neonatal unit at birth. I didn't see it.
老公在监护室外拍了孩子的照片，拿给我看，我很开心，叫他把照片发到我的手机上，反复地看。
My husband took a picture of the child outside the monitor room and showed it to me. I was very happy and asked him to send it to my mobile phone and read it over and over again.
转折点在23号凌晨。
The turning point was in the early morning of 23rd.
因为开窗通风，我穿着衣服就钻进被窝了，睡了一会儿觉得很热，又把衣服脱掉，这个过程中可能有点着凉了，后来感觉鼻子也有点堵。
Because of the ventilation in the window, I got into bed in my clothes, slept for a while, felt very hot, took off my clothes, probably got a bit cold in the process, and finally felt a bit stuck in my nose.
老公出去帮我倒杯热水，路过护士站的时候，他借了个温度计，一测，38（摄氏）度多。
My husband went out to help me pour a cup of hot water, passing the nurse station, he borrowed a thermometer, a test, 38 degrees Celsius.
隔20分钟再测，还是那么高。
Every 20 minutes, it's still so high.
当天下午，我和老公被叫到病房外面，医生说我现在是疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎患者，为了防止传染，要转去单人病房，重点观察。
That afternoon, my husband and I were called outside the ward. The doctor told me that I was suspected to be suffering from the new coronavirus pneumonia.
下午4点钟，我查了CT，结果肺部已经有实变了。
At 4: 00 p. m., I checked my CT and my lungs have consolidated.
医生说，要取样做核酸检测。
Doctors say you need to take samples for nucleic acid tests.
取样的那天是除夕，武汉“封城”的第二天。
The day sampled was New Year's Eve, the second day of Wuhan's "city closure."
老公透过病房的窗户向外看，街道上已经没什么人了。
My husband looked out the window of the ward. There was no one left on the street.
我们俩在病房里过了年。
We spent the next year in the ward.
年夜饭是医院食堂买来的，他吃了一份盒饭，我不敢吃太油腻的东西，吃了稀饭和鸡蛋。
Chinese New Year's Eve meal is bought by the hospital canteen, he ate a box of rice, I dare not eat too greasy things, eat porridge and eggs.
那天晚上我一直躺在床上打吊针，春晚也看不了，也没给家人拜年。
That night I was lying in bed with a chandelier. I couldn't watch the Spring Festival Gala, nor did I pay my family a New Year call.
大年初一的上午，检测结果出来了，是阳性。
New Year's Day morning, the test results came out, is positive.
我们很快就开始担心孩子。
We soon began to worry about our children.
之前还没有那么担心，因为看到网上说这个病毒婴儿和儿童是不易感人群。
There was not that much to worry about before, because watching the Internet say babies and children are not susceptible to the virus.
但拿到确诊结果之后，我们拜托产科的医生转告新生儿科，希望能给孩子也做个核酸检测。
But when we got the diagnosis, we asked the obstetrician to tell the neonatology department that we wanted to have the baby tested for nucleic acid.
1月26日，武汉大学中南医院检验科在进行新兴冠状病毒核酸检测。
January 26, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Inspection Department in the new coronavirus nucleic acid testing.
（图片来源：武汉大学中南医院微博）来之不易的床位去年12月底，新型冠状病毒肺炎的新闻报出来的时候，老公就打电话跟我说了，他在学校工作，他们学校排查得很严，但是当时因为报道的情况并不严重，没想到会扩散得这么大。
(Source: Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Weibo) Hard-won bed late last December, when the news of the new coronavirus pneumonia came out, my husband called me and told me that he was working at school.
我一个孕妇，既没有乱吃东西，也不怎么跟外面的人接触，之前每天吃过晚饭我都会出去走动，总觉得这个东西好像离我比较远。
I was a pregnant woman who neither ate freely nor had much contact with the outside world. I used to go out and walk around after dinner every night and I always felt as if this thing was far away from me.
19号产检的时候，人们也没有大范围地戴口罩。
Also, people did not wear masks on a large scale during the check-up on the 19th.
20号住进中南医院产科的时候，有些医护人员也没有戴口罩，还穿着普通的白大褂。
Some doctors and nurses did not wear masks and wore plain white coats when they were admitted to the obstetrics department of Zhongnan Hospital on the 20th.
直到22号，情况有了明显的变化。
By the 22nd, the situation had changed markedly.
医院给我们每个病房都发了口罩，而且仅允许一名家属陪同。
Each of our wards was provided with a mask and only one family member was allowed to accompany them.
到了23号，管理得更严格了，为了控制人员流动，医院把电梯间通往病房的门都关了。
On the 23rd the hospital closed the doors leading from the elevator to the ward in an effort to control the flow of people.
我实在想不出自己是在哪里染上病毒的，现在也很难查证了。
I can't really figure out where I got the virus, and it's hard to find out now.
确诊之后，病床非常紧张，李家福主任托人协调了好久，终于在中南医院本院的感染科给我找了一个床位。
After the diagnosis, the hospital bed was very tight, Li Jiaofo director coordination for a long time, finally found me a bed in the infection department of the hospital.
产科在3号楼，感染科在6号楼。
Obstetrics is in Building 3. Infection is in Building 6.
初一那天外面下着雨，很冷，我穿着隔离服，被裹得严严实实，护士长拉着我，老公在后面拿着东西，就这么往感染科走。
It was raining and cold outside on the first day of junior high school. I was wrapped up in an isolation suit. The head nurse was pulling me. My husband was carrying something in the back.
我很感激，那天，护士长自己都在咳嗽。
I appreciate it. The head nurse coughed herself that day.
很多人都在超负荷地工作。
A lot of people are working beyond their capacity.
在产科隔离时，一个护士给我打针，打了三次都没有打进去，我感觉她都找不到我的血管了，也不知道是护目镜影响了她的视线，还是她太劳累了。
In obstetrics isolation, a nurse gave me an injection, three times did not hit it, I feel she can not find my blood vessels, do not know it is the goggles affected her vision, or she is too tired.
病床有限，条件也有限。
The number of beds is limited and conditions are limited.
同屋住了两位男士，而且没有帘子。
There were two men in the room, with no curtains.
产科的病房是有空调的，这里没有。
The obstetrics ward is air-conditioned, not here.
但是，这样一个床位已经是来之不易了。
But such a bed has not come easily.
这些天我一直在打点滴，起初是剖腹产后收宫的点滴，现在是消炎的。
These days I have been dripping a bit, first is a cesarean section after closing the palace drops, is now anti-inflammatory.
目前新型冠状病毒还没有特效药，只能对症用药。
At present, there is no specific coronavirus, only symptomatic medication.
我两只手已经快没地方扎针了，手臂都有点僵直、水肿。
My hands have almost no place to pin, arms are a bit stiff, edema.
前几天，老公一直陪在我身边。
A few days ago, my husband has been with me.
转到感染科后，他不能再陪护了。
After he was transferred to the infection department, he could no longer accompany him.
从生产到现在，我都没有洗过澡，老公在的时候，还能帮我擦擦身体，现在实在不方便，既要小心手上的针头，也要小心剖腹产的伤口。
From birth to now, I have not bathed, my husband in the time, can also help me wipe the body, now is not convenient, both careful hand needles, but also careful Caesarean section wounds.
我还跟老公说要把头发给剪了，因为头发已经（打）结了。
And I told my husband I was going to have my hair cut because it was already tied.
他离开之后，我晚上不敢睡熟，怕呼吸不畅，怕半夜发烧，怕自己睡过去。
After he left, I dare not sleep at night, afraid of breathing bad, afraid of midnight fever, afraid of their sleep past.
要保存体力活着一切都太突然、太紧急了，大家都没有准备好，不管是个人、医院还是政府。
It's all so sudden, so urgent, that no one is ready, whether it's an individual, a hospital or a government.
医院的物资非常紧缺，我老公听护士们说，感染科只能保证人均一个口罩，第二天还不知道是什么情况，而整个产科，当时只有10套防护服。
The hospital was so short of supplies that my husband heard from the nurses that the infection department could only guarantee one mask per person, and the next day he did not know what the situation was.
这些防护用品，肯定陆陆续续会补上来，但是有些病患有特殊的需要，就不一定顾得到。
These protective devices will certainly add up, but some patients have special needs, not necessarily care.
我就是一个例子。
I am an example.
我已经涨奶好几天了，孩子又不在旁边，急需一个电动吸奶器，前几天我用手动吸奶器，不好用，（乳房）都出血了。
I've been milking for days, and the baby's not around, so I need an electric sucker. I used a hand-sucker a few days ago. It's not working.
病房的老人，连上厕所的纸都快用完了，手机充电器也没有，送不进来。
The old people in the ward were running out of paper to put on the toilet, and there was no cell phone charger to send in.
还有牛奶，我现在坐月子，免疫能力很低，我老公说，按中医的话，现在就是元气大伤的时候， 而这个病毒就是考验人的免疫能力，我在这里抵抗病毒，需要营养。
And milk, I'm sitting now, immune, very low, my husband said, according to Chinese medicine, now is the time of great injury, and this virus is a test of human immunity, I resist the virus here, need nutrition.
其实家里准备了很多坐月子需要的东西，按照产科现在的惯例，住院三天就要出院，原本带到医院的物资也是够的。
In fact, the family prepared a lot of things for the baby, according to the current obstetrics practice, three days in hospital to be discharged, the original materials brought to the hospital is enough.
但是我们不知道会“封城”，不知道会停掉公共交通。
But we did not know that it would be "closed" and that public transport would be suspended.
这些措施都是临时采取的，我们哪知道不能够再补充东西进来呢？大年初一晚上，我老公从医院回家，在路上拦的士，拦了五六辆都没有停，也许是因为他在医院附近，司机会害怕。
On New Year's Eve, my husband came home from the hospital, stopped a taxi on the way, and stopped five or six of them, perhaps because he was near the hospital and the driver was afraid.
他想找扫码支付的电瓶车，一直没有找到。
He tried to find a sweeper to pay for the electric car, but could not find it.
后来走了大概两公里，终于拦到一辆的士，给他带回了家。
After walking for about two kilometers, he finally got a taxi and brought him home.
有的外卖也不送医院了。
Some take-out food doesn't go to the hospital.
初一中午我点外卖，商家直接把订单取消了。
I order take-out at noon, the businessman cancelled the order directly.
我没有打电话问，这不很明显嘛，人家不做这个生意。
I did not call to ask, it is not very obvious that people do not do this business.
初二早上，社区工作人员到了我家，测了我老公、妈妈和婆婆的体温，发了口罩和消毒药，让他们把家里清洗一遍，并告诉他们，需要居家隔离14天。
On the morning of the second day of junior high school, community workers came to my house, took my husband, mother and mother-in-law's temperature, put on masks and disinfectants, told them to clean the house and told them that they needed to be kept in isolation for 14 days.
那我需要的物资怎么办？我的孩子怎么办？他们可以派其他人送物资、接孩子吗？没有这个措施。
What about the supplies I need? What about my kids? Can they send someone else to deliver supplies and pick up the kids? No such measure.
有时候，不是疾病把我们逼得没办法了。
Sometimes, it's not the disease that drives us crazy.
直到那天晚上，我还在四处找人帮忙买电动吸奶器，老公告诉我，产科那栋楼的超市应该就有卖，我找医生，医生说不能脱岗，我说给她转账，请她下班之后买了带来，反复沟通了几次。
Until that night, I was looking for someone to help me buy an electric sucker. My husband told me that the supermarket in the maternity ward should sell it. I went to the doctor and the doctor said she couldn't get off the job.
初三早上，我拿到了吸奶器，焦虑一下子减轻了，心里一块大石头落了地。
On the morning of the third day of junior high school, I got the sucker and my anxiety was relieved. A big stone fell.
医生说，是感染科的主任帮忙买的，我很感激。
The doctor said it was the director of the infection department who helped buy it, and I appreciate it.
我还很担心孩子的安全。
I'm also worried about the child's safety.
花了这么大的力气生下这个孩子，还一眼都没有看到呢！这几天他和我一直是分开的，不过这样我也放心一点，免得他被我传染。
He and I have been parted these last few days, but I am relieved that he should not be infected with me.
初二那天，新生儿科的医生说，孩子的身体状况不错，要求他出院。
On the second day of junior high school, doctors said the baby was in good health and asked to be discharged.
可是没有人去接：家里三个人都被限制出行，其他家人都不在武汉，也不敢让他们现在来武汉。
However, no one answered: the three family members were restricted to travel, the other family members are not in Wuhan, do not dare to let them now to Wuhan.
我老公问了很多朋友，都在“封城”之前返乡过年了。
My husband asked a lot of friends, before the "closure" before returning home for the New Year.
我们只好和新生儿科沟通，他们原本不同意，但后来考虑到我们的特殊情况，说孩子可以继续留在那里，但是不排除有感染的风险。
We had to communicate with the neonatal unit, which they had disagreed with, but then, considering our special circumstances, said that the children could stay there, but the risk of infection was not ruled out.
我老公发了一段声明过去，表示后续孩子出现什么变化，我们自行承担后果。
My husband issued a statement saying that what happened to the children in the follow-up would be for us to bear the consequences.
初三，产科的主治医生过来看了我的刀口，还给我通乳，吸奶器也让我的身体得到了舒缓。
On the third day of my life, the obstetrician came to see my knife and gave me milk, and the sucker soothed my body.
另一个好消息是，我的宝宝在初二做了核酸检测，结果显示他没有被感染。
Another piece of good news is that my baby had a nucleic acid test on his second day of junior high, and it turned out he wasn't infected.
我一下子有信心多了。
I felt much more confident at once.
在武汉大学中南医院产科，一个健康的新生儿出生了。
A healthy newborn was born in the obstetrics department of Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital.
（图片来源：武汉大学中南医院微信公众号，图文无关）现在，我最需要的是休息，我同房间的两个病人一个高烧，另一个老人病得很重，他们也需要休息。
(Photo: Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, Wei Xin Public No.) Now, what I need most is rest. I have a high fever with two patients in my room.
这两天我也只是跟家人简单报了个平安，我们都要保存体力活着。
These two days I also just told the family a simple peace, we all want to save physical strength to live.
我活下去的信念就是要跟家人团圆、要照顾我的孩子。
My belief to live is to reunite with my family and take care of my children.
之前我们已经给孩子取好了名字，但是现在要重想了，因为当时是按照鼠宝宝来取的。
We had named the baby before, but now we need to think about it, because it was the baby mouse.
现在很多武汉的孕妇都想给孩子取个保佑的意思，我们也想，碰到这种事情，肯定希望有保佑的意思，希望他健健康康成长。
Now many pregnant women in Wuhan want to give the child a blessing, we also want to, this kind of thing, must hope to have a blessing, hope that he healthy growth.
对了，这两天武汉出太阳了，希望我们的身体跟这暖阳一样明媚。
By the way, Wuhan is out of the sun these two days, we hope that our bodies as bright as this warm sun.
（文中刘露露为化名，部分内容由其老公转述）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介陈怡含我情愿相信世界不愚昧。
(Liu Lulu, alias, partly paraphrased by her husband) Back-office reply & quot; & quot; Join more discussion writer Introduction Chen Yi-han I'd rather believe the world isn't stupid.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
生下儿子后，大年初一我确诊了新冠肺炎。
After giving birth to my son, I confirmed the new crown pneumonia on New Year's Day.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "生下儿子后，大年初一我确诊了新冠肺炎";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我活下去的信念就是要跟家人团圆、要照顾我的孩子。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; My idea of survival is to be with my family and take care of my children.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '被租客带走的杭州女孩',。
Hangzhou girl & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; & & quot; & & quot
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '上万人曾被强制绝育，半世纪后终于等到了国家道歉',。
Tens of thousands of people have been forcibly sterilized and waited at least half a century to see the nation apologize and say hello.
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
