武汉“封城”后，志愿者车队故事。
Wuhan "closed the city" after the story of the volunteer convoy.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
武汉“封城”后公共交通停运，自1月24日开始，路上开始出现民间自助形式的车队。
Wuhan "closed the city" after the suspension of public transport, since January 24, began to appear on the road in the form of private self-help convoys.
私家车主轮班，车队昼夜不停，每天接送医护人员、运输医疗物资，每送一趟要用75%酒精浓度的消毒液喷洒一遍车辆，油钱、防护口罩、消毒液都自掏腰包。
Private car main shift, day and night, transport medical personnel, transport medical supplies, every time the use of 75% alcohol solution spray vehicles, oil money, face masks, disinfectant all out of their own funds.
据媒体报道，参与的志愿者已超过4000人。
According to media reports, more than 4,000 volunteers have participated.
他们就像城市“封城”后的毛细血管，连通被堵住的动脉，希望通过自己的力量，为共同留在这里的人提供一些帮助。
They are like capillaries behind the city's "closed" city, connected to blocked arteries, hoping to provide, through their own efforts, some help for those who stay together.
1月26日，“封城”第四天，中心城区机动车“禁行”首日的武汉市区。
January 26, the "closure" of the fourth day, the central city of motor vehicles "banned" the first day of Wuhan City.
文|王丹妮 李晓芳编辑|陶若谷11月26日凌晨，杨林所在的微信群炸了，志愿者的车不在许可上路范围内，群消息一条接一条弹出来，“收到短信冇？（方言）”、“到底么回事？”、“能不能上路？”几小时前，武汉市疫情防控指挥部发布第9号通告，自26日零时开始，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区实行机动车禁行管理。
In the early morning hours of November 26, Yang's cell phone exploded. Volunteers were not allowed on the road. One after another of the group's messages popped up, "Received SMS?" and "What's the matter?"
随后市交管局又作出调整，对禁行机动车通过手机短信提前24小时告知车主，未接到短信通知的可以通行。
Subsequently, the MRA made adjustments to prohibit motor vehicles through mobile phone text messages 24 hours in advance to inform the owner, not to receive SMS notice of the passable.
群里持续活跃到凌晨3点，29岁的杨林强迫自己闭眼睡一会，打算第二天照常上路。
The group remained active until 3 a.m., when Yang Lin, 29, forced himself to shut his eyes and sleep for the next day.
按照之前的预约，他要在早晨5点起床，先接一个武汉大学人民医院的医生上班，然后是中山医院的护士、亚心总医院的医生、汉口医院的护士……连着三天，他都在这个时间出发，开上自己的奔驰车，穿梭在武汉的13个城区之间，接下班最晚的护士，送上班最早的医生。
According to his previous appointment, he was to get up at 5: 00 in the morning, take a doctor from Wuhan University People's Hospital, then a nurse from Zhongshan Hospital, a doctor from Axin General Hospital, and a nurse from Hankou Hospital.
那天早晨，街上的车少了很多。
There was a lot less traffic on the street that morning.
他估算，车队里大概有200个司机担心被扣分，把握不好政策，不敢上路。
He estimated that about 200 drivers in the convoy were afraid of penalty points and bad policies and would not dare to go out on the road.
往医院运送酒精的途中，他被交警拦下，没有查他通行证，只说“不要再出来了”。
On his way to the hospital, he was stopped by the traffic police, who did not check his pass, saying only, "Don't come out again."
三天前市内公交停运，杨林在微博看到医护人员上下班没车，就发私信联系，接送了三个人。
Three days ago, the city bus stopped, Yang Lin saw the medical staff in the micro-blog to work without a car, on the personal letter contact, picked up three people.
之后求助者越来越多，他拉来几个平时一起听现场演出的朋友，组建了医生出行互助群，成立“鲁磨路救援”车队。
Later, more and more clients, he drew a few friends to listen to live performances together, formed a group of doctors travel mutual help, set up a "Lu Mill Road Rescue" convoy.
鲁磨路是武昌的一个地名，知名现场音乐演出场地 VOX 所在地。
Lu Meng Road is a place name of Wuchang, famous live music performance site VOX site.
在这座“朋克之城”，杨林和这群朋友音乐品味比较一致，经常约着去那里看摇滚乐演出。
In this "punk city," Yang Lin and the group of friends have a good taste in music, often asked to go there to see rock music performances.
让杨林没有想到的是，摇滚青年组车队很靠谱，一晚之内，私人小群迅速扩大成4个近500人的大群，司机和医护人员超过1500，私家车主占到四分之一。
What Yang didn't think of was that the rock 'n' roll youth team was very reliable. Within a night, the private sector grew into four large groups of nearly 500 people, with more than 1,500 drivers and paramedics and a quarter of the owners of private cars.
1月26日，杨林给车队志愿者发放免费酒精用于车辆消毒。
On January 26, Yang Lin gave motorcade volunteers free alcohol to disinfect their vehicles.
尽管全市征集了6000辆出租车，分配给中心城区每个社区3到5辆，为居民提供免费服务，但这些车远远不够。
Although 6,000 taxis have been collected throughout the city and distributed between three and five to each community in the central city, providing free services to residents, these cars are far from adequate.
就在1月26日凌晨1点多，一位年轻女孩在朋友圈发布求助信息，希望能有车接。
At just over 1 a.m. on January 26, a young girl posted help messages in her circle of friends, hoping for a car.
女孩和她的父母都是新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
The girl and her parents are both patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
三个人分别在不同医院治疗，而她的父亲刚刚去世，她要从医院出发，把父亲的身份证送到他所在的医院，才能将遗体火化。
The three men were treated in different hospitals, and her father had just died, and she had to leave the hospital to have her father's identity card sent to his hospital before the body could be cremated.
110没人接，公共交通瘫痪，她找到了李小熊组建的志愿车队。
No one answered. Public transportation was paralyzed. She found a volunteer convoy set up by Li Xiong.
微信群沉默了好久。
The microbelief community remained silent for a long time.
为了保障司机安全，车队第一大原则就是不接送确诊或疑似患者，避免交叉感染。
In order to ensure the safety of drivers, the first principle of the convoy is not to transport confirmed or suspected patients, to avoid cross-infection.
而受到新限行令的影响，也出于对车主健康的担忧，李小熊本来已经在25日深夜决定，停止接送医护人员。
Affected by the new restrictions, but also out of concern for the health of the owner, Li Xiong had decided late on the 25th night to stop the transport of medical personnel.
但女孩已经没有其他办法。
But the girl had no other choice.
一位司机硬着头皮接了，穿上防护服，戴上口罩、护目镜，顺利把女孩送到医院。
One driver bravely took the girl to hospital wearing protective clothing, masks and goggles.
那位志愿者一回到家，马上用消毒液彻底清洁了一遍车辆，把衣服全脱下来，又洗了一遍澡，才跟家里人见面。
As soon as he got home, the volunteer cleaned the car thoroughly with disinfectant, took off all his clothes, and took a bath before meeting his family.
他的车在未来几天也没办法继续服务，需要自我隔离一段时间才能外出。
His car will not be able to continue service for the next few days and will need to be isolated for some time before going out.
而处理完父亲后事，女孩又回到救治中心。
After handling her father's affairs, the girl returned to the treatment center.
她回复的信息显示，1月27日早晨，她又开始发烧。
The information she responded to showed that on the morning of 27 January, she had a fever again.
这几天，李小熊手机的“滴滴”声总是以“秒”的频率不停响起。
Over the past few days, Li's cell phone "drop" sound is always "seconds" the frequency of non-stop ringing.
“每天点手机就不知道要点多少下”，她说，事发突然，车队也没有更高效的服务方式，只能采用笨办法，一刻不停盯着手机，将医护人员的需求、物资运送的地点、联系方式及时转到车主群里，能接的司机会在群里回应，双方再对接。
"We don't know how much to order every day," she said. "Suddenly, there is no more efficient way to serve the team. Instead, they just stare at their mobile phones, transfer their needs, location and contact information to their owners in time.
组建车队，她起初只是顺手发了个朋友圈，让在附近需要去医院上班的人联系她，可以接送。
In forming the convoy, she initially made a group of friends who could be picked up by people who needed to go to the hospital nearby.
结果复制转发的人越来越多，还有院长看到朋友圈，把消息转到医院内部群。
As a result, more and more people were copying and forwarding, and the dean saw the circle of friends, sending the message to the hospital inner circle.
李小熊怀疑，那天可能全城的医生都给她打电话了，“滴滴”声一刻没停过。
Li suspected that the whole city doctors might have called her that day, "drop by drop" sound never stopped.
1月26日早上，志愿者送一位医生到武汉市亚心总医院上班。
On January 26 morning, volunteers sent a doctor to work at the General Hospital of Yaxin in Wuhan.
2市民的需求几乎都在微信群里。
The needs of the citizens are almost always in the micro-groups.
有医生提前结束休假，赶回来待命，因为“封城”没办法坐火车，求助志愿者从周边地区开车带进城；寻找拥有A2驾驶证的司机，帮医院驾驶救护车；便利店老板免费提供矿泉水和泡面，希望送到医生手上。
Doctors came back from their vacation early because they couldn't take the train to help volunteers drive into the city from the surrounding area, to find drivers with A2 driving permits to drive ambulances to hospitals, and to provide free mineral water and noodles to convenience store owners in the hope of getting them to doctors.
30岁的周鑫第一次出车，就接了一个要去武汉市中心医院的医生。
30-year-old Zhou Xin the first trip, took a doctor to Wuhan city central hospital.
他戴上三层口罩，准备好84消毒液，在车上放了医用消毒酒精。
He put on a three-layer mask, prepared 84 disinfectant, and placed a medical disinfectant alcohol in the car.
顺利抵达后，又有一个市第五医院的护士刚下班，周鑫犹豫了一下还是接了，电话一打过去，护士就忍不住恳求，“她当时就说希望我快一点，因为她真的特别累特别困。
After the successful arrival, a nurse from the Fifth Municipal Hospital just finished work. Zhou Xin hesitated to take the call. As soon as the call was made, the nurse could not help pleading.
”从医院到那位护士的家大约七八公里，周鑫不熟悉路况，女护士一边给他指路，一边倾诉——病患实在太多，她们人手不够，物资也缺，大多数病人还是老人，血管不明显，扎针困难，有些老人情绪激动，会对护士口出恶言。
From the hospital to the nurse's house about seven or eight kilometers, Zhou Xin was unfamiliar with the road conditions, and the nurse poured out her words as she gave him directions - there were too many sick people, they were short of staff and supplies, most of the patients were old people, blood vessels were not obvious, difficult to pin, and some elderly people were excited and verbally abusive to the nurses.
护士告诉她，几乎每个急诊处的医生护士都哭过。
The nurse told her that almost every doctor and nurse at the emergency department cried.
她们人手不够，上班基本五六个小时不能休息，没时间喝水，嗓子干疼，只能让同事给她打生理盐水紧急补充水分。
They do not have enough hands to work for five or six hours, do not have time to drink water, dry throat pain, can only let her colleagues make physiological saline emergency water recharge.
女护士最后说，有时也想不干了，家里也有小孩老人。
The nurse concluded that she sometimes wanted to quit and that there were older children at home.
周鑫不知道怎么安慰。
Zhou Xin does not know how to comfort.
晚上他刷朋友圈，看到女护士又准时发了信息，寻找明天能送她上班的志愿者司机。
At night he brushed friends and saw the nurse send messages on time, looking for a volunteer driver who could take her to work tomorrow.
周鑫所在的车队，有几个司机已经检测出发热现象，被车队管理人员勒令停止服务，自行隔离。
Zhou Xin in the convoy, several drivers have been detected by the heat, the team management ordered to stop service, self-isolation.
他住的小区晚上也有救护车开进来，抬走两个疑似患者。
Ambulances also drove in at night in his neighborhood, carrying two suspected patients.
他有点紧张，考虑到老人孩子，决定暂停志愿服务。
He was a little nervous, considering the old man and his children, and decided to suspend volunteering.
1月26日，司机志愿者帮忙卸货。
On January 26, volunteer drivers helped unload the goods.
没有人知道究竟是什么时候，疫情什么时候开始在华南海鲜市场悄然扩散。
No one knows when, or when, the outbreak began to crept into the South China seafood market.
但40岁的女店主王娜早在去年12月中旬，官方通报第一例不明原因感染的肺炎之前，就从医生朋友那边得知，“事情可能在短期内解决不了”。
But the 40-year-old shopkeeper, Wang Na, was told by her doctor's friends as early as mid-December that "things may not work out in the short term" before the official announcement of the first case of unexplained pneumonia.
她往家里的冰箱塞了15只鸡、20条鲷鱼和10斤红菜苔，早早囤好了食物，还提醒自己所服务的公益机构，提前准备好防护用品。
She fills her refrigerator with 15 chickens, 20 snappers, and 10 kilos of red moss, hoards food early, and reminds her public-interest groups to get supplies ready in advance.
1月23日凌晨“封城”的消息发布时，她正在武汉西高速口附近的加油站装运100 箱酒精，一起装卸的8 个司机朋友里，只有她觉得“意料之中”，大家笑着骂她“嘴巴毒”，“好的不灵，坏的灵”。
She was loading 100 cases of alcohol at a gas station near Wuhan West Expressway in the early hours of January 23, and was the only one of her eight driver friends to be "expected," laughing and calling her "mouth poison," "good bad, bad spirit."
2003年“非典”期间，她就是运送物资的司机，当时在部队，接到任务加入支援广州和北京的车队，“一台车，一个人，几千公里的路，几天都不能休息”。
She was the driver of supplies during SARS in 2003, when she was sent to support convoys in Guangzhou and Beijing. "A car, a man, thousands of kilometers away, no rest for days."
17年后，类似的事情在她居住的城市重演，她相对镇静。
Seventeen years later, something like that happened in her city, and she was relatively calm.
好几个朋友打算赶在高速封闭前离开武汉，王娜没打算走。
Several friends decided to leave Wuhan in time for the high-speed closure. Wang Na had no intention of leaving.
她听说“鄂A”在外地不敢上路，去海南的朋友被小区重点检查，去南京的朋友也被测体温、查询出行记录，“去哪都一样”，王娜放弃了跟女儿自驾游的新年计划，打算留在武汉，“这种情况下，物资和运力的紧缺，是肯定的。
She heard that "E-E A" in other places dare not go on the road, friends to Hainan were checked by the district focus, friends to Nanjing were also taken temperature tests, travel records, "go everywhere the same," Wang gave up her daughter driving their own plans to stay in Wuhan, "in this case, the shortage of material and transportation capacity is positive.
”“封城”之后，多家医院物资紧张的消息传遍全网。
"After the closure of the city, news of material shortages spread all over the network.
随后装满口罩、酒精、防护服的卡车从各地开往武汉，却堵在城市边缘的入口处。
Then trucks loaded with masks, alcohol and protective clothing headed from place to place, blocking the entrance to the city's edge.
来自市外的捐赠物资，一部分可以通过武汉市红十字会，发放到各定点医院，而一些民间机构和居民直接捐赠的物品，要进入武汉市难度不小。
Donations from outside the city, in part through the Wuhan Red Cross Society, can be distributed to designated hospitals, while some non-governmental organizations and residents directly donated items, to enter Wuhan city is not small difficulties.
医疗设备要符合医疗级别，同时要证明是救援物资，关卡处才会放行，有些还要出具医院的接收证明。
Medical equipment must be of a medical standard and must be certified as a relief item before the checkpoint is cleared, and in some cases a hospital acceptance certificate is required.
“开这些证明非常麻烦，”李小熊说，“刚封城前两天，我们老被卡在高速的出口上，不给放行。
"It was very troublesome to do this," Li said. "We were stuck in a high-speed exit two days before the city was closed.
”拿不出证明，她只能承担市内运输，像蚂蚁搬家，往这个医院送两箱防护服，那个医院运几万只口罩。
Unable to prove it, she had to carry the city, like ants moving, two boxes of protective clothing to the hospital, which carried tens of thousands of masks.
她也补充道，绿色通道开设后，流程简便了许多。
She added that with the opening of the Green Channel, the process was much easier.
王娜2.0T排量的越野车里，塞满12箱60cmx40cm的纸箱，副驾驶座位上也堆满了，全是酒精、口罩等医用物资。
Wang's 2.0-T Land Cruiser is packed with 12 boxes of 60cm x 40cm cartons, and the co-pilot's seat is full of medical supplies such as alcohol and masks.
有一次她被交警拦下，没有“市内通行许可”证件，她朝警察吼，“没证，你要扣分就扣吧！等我忙完再来处理这些事！” 旁边年长一些的交警冲她摆摆手，让她赶紧走。
Once she was stopped by traffic police and had no "city pass" permit. She yelled at the police, "No license, you have to deduct points! I'll deal with these things when I'm busy!" The older traffic policeman waved her around and told her to go.
像她一样开着私家车，凌晨赶到高速路口的志愿者不在少数。
Like her driving a private car, in the early morning to a high-speed junction of volunteers.
物资入关后，一些零散的捐赠品需要私家车来送，还有一些不方便进入城区的货车也会把物资卸到高速口，通过志愿者的车转运。
After the goods enter customs, some scattered donations need to be delivered by private cars, and some trucks that are not convenient to enter the city will unload the goods to the expressway and transship them through volunteer vehicles.
面包车、小型轿车、越野车就像城市的毛细血管，连通被堵住的动脉，带着物资向这座8494平方公里的城市延伸。
The vans, minibuses, and SUVs act as the capillaries of the city, connecting blocked arteries and carrying supplies to the 8494-square-kilometer city.
1月26日，司机志愿者帮忙卸货。
On January 26, volunteer drivers helped unload the goods.
3为了方便像王娜这样的司机取货，有货车司机趁着天黑把车往市区方向多开20多公里，停在酒店停车场，“这样你们近一点，不用那么辛苦。
To make it easier for drivers like Wang Na to pick them up, truckers take advantage of darkness to drive more than 20 kilometers to the city and park in the hotel parking lot.
” 接收一批口罩时，王娜跟货车司机简单聊了两句，得知他已经两天没合眼。
When she received a batch of masks, Wang talked briefly with the lorry driver and learned that he had not slept for two days.
这几天，货车司机很多往返于仙桃和武汉之间。
These days, many truckers come and go between Xiantao and Wuhan.
仙桃是湖北的口罩产地之一，多家工厂通宵赶工，货车司机和很多买口罩的人一样，日夜守在工厂门口，产出一箱，搬走一箱，他告诉王娜，“大家都缺货，谁先抢到就是谁的。
Fairy peaches are one of Hubei's mask-producing areas, and drivers of lorries, like many people who buy masks, stay at the factory gates day and night, producing boxes and removing boxes.
”26日早晨，同样等在高速口的刘威在车里睡着了，6点左右被其他车友叫醒。
"Liu Wei, who was also waiting at the freeway, fell asleep in the car on the morning of Saturday and was woken up around six o'clock by other motorists.
他前一晚刚刚加入，一直抢不到订单，“其他志愿者的速度太快了”。
He joined the team the night before and couldn't get the order. "The other volunteers were too quick."
直到凌晨2点接到一个转运物资的活儿，货车司机说不准几点到，20多个司机都和他一起在夜里等着。
It was two o'clock in the morning when a transhipment arrived, and the truck driver couldn't say what time it was. More than 20 drivers were waiting with him at night.
看到一车防护服、口罩和鞋套抵达武汉，他们立即装车，一个小时内完成分配，9点之前，这批货物会分别送到协和医院、同济医院、武汉市中心医院等需要的地方。
Seeing a truckload of protective clothing, masks and shoe-covers arrive in Wuhan, they immediately load the vehicles and distribute them within an hour. By 9 o'clock, the goods will be delivered to areas in need, such as Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital and Wuhan Central Hospital.
刘威是自由职业者，“封城”之后几乎每晚都躺在家里沙发上闲着。
Liu Wei is a freelancer and has spent almost every night lying idle on the couch at home since the city was closed.
母亲在江夏区一家社区医院里当保洁，每天去医院两次，把医生护士弃用的口罩等防护品用黄色塑料袋统一整理好，交给上一级医院收走。
Her mother worked as a cleaner at a community hospital in Jiangxia. She went to the hospital twice a day. She collected all the protective products, including masks abandoned by doctors and nurses, in yellow plastic bags.
父亲在中建三局的项目当保安，建设火神山医院紧急召集，三局要求增调集装箱支援，父亲和十几个六七十岁的老人都去加班，将电缆从箱子里清空。
My father worked as a security guard for the three Bureau projects, and the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital was called up urgently. The three bureaus asked for additional container support.
看到父母都在为疫情而忙，刘威觉得惭愧，于是通过朋友介绍加入志愿者车队。
Seeing that his parents were busy with the epidemic, Liu Wei felt ashamed and joined the volunteer team through his friends.
弹出消息的“滴滴”的声像是一个巨大的缺口，怎么也填不满。
The sound of pop-up messages "drip by drop" is a huge gap that cannot be filled in.
王娜感到无力，民间志愿者没有任何资金补贴，她不知道这样的日子还要持续多久，“每天光油钱都要四百多”。
Wang Na feels powerless, folk volunteers do not have any financial subsidies, she does not know how long such a day will last, "light oil cost more than 400 per day."
1月26日，交警集中拦下过往机动车，叮嘱“不要再开车出门”。
On January 26, traffic police stopped passing cars and told them not to drive out again.
相比于交警的阻拦和政策的限制，更让她感到难过的是旁人的不理解。
Compared with the obstruction of the traffic police and policy restrictions, she felt more sad than others do not understand.
群里有个开农庄的提出，以低价向医院提供一批蔬菜，结果被认为是打广告谋私利，把他踢出群了。
One of the ranchers in the group offered to provide the hospital with a batch of vegetables at a low price, only to be kicked out of the group because of perceived self-interest in advertising.
还有一次深夜送货，王娜费劲把几大箱口罩搬下车，收货的人一边在收条上签字，一边嘀咕，“一个女人大晚上出来跑什么，怎么不在家好好待着？” 忙完一天回家躺在床上，她翻看新闻，看到有网友留言说志愿者是“吃饱了撑的，多管闲事”，眼泪一下子就出来了。
Another late-night delivery, Wang struggled to lift several boxes of masks out of the car, and the receiver signed the receipt, muttering, "What is a woman going out to run around all night, why not stay home?"
王娜有时候也在想，做这些到底是为了什么。
Ms. Wang sometimes wonders what all this is all about.
她始终瞒着老家的亲戚，不敢在朋友圈发布任何做志愿者的消息，怕家人担心。
She is always hiding from her relatives back home, afraid to publish any volunteer news in the circle of friends, afraid of family worry.
大年三十，好几个亲戚打来语音电话，她在开车，几次拒接电话，无奈之下，最后接了嫂子的视频电话，骗她说没有出门，只是到车里拿点东西。
In her late thirties, several relatives phoned her. She was driving and refused to answer the phone several times. She finally got a video call from her sister-in-law.
嫂子再一次叮嘱，不要出门乱跑，照顾好女儿。
Again my sister-in-law told her not to run around and take care of her daughter.
丈夫去世得早，王娜的女儿在单亲家庭长大，没有安全感。
Her husband died early and Wang Na's daughter grew up in a single-parent family, feeling insecure.
凌晨两点，王娜出门前，女儿拉着她说，“现在外面这么危险，如果你出事了，我怎么办？”王娜心里发酸，但微信群消息一直在响，她忍不住去看，女儿拦不住，最后说，“一个人待在家里要疯了”，求妈妈带她一起出门。
When Wang Na left the house at 2 a. m., her daughter took her by the door and said, "It's so dangerous outside now, what should I do if something happens to you?" Wang Na felt sour, but the tidings of the microphone kept ringing.
已经进入“封城”第四天。
Has entered the fourth day of the "closed city."
1月26日阴云聚集在城市上空，断断续续飘着雨。
Clouds gathered over the city on January 26, drizzling with intermittent rain.
长江大桥、楚河汉街、江汉路步行街几乎见不到人影，只有几个穿橘色外套的环卫工人晃动手中的扫帚。
The Yangtze River Bridge, Chu He Han Street, Jiang Han Road Pedestrian Street are almost invisible, except for a few sanitation workers in orange jackets shaking their brooms.
除了几家超市，街边商铺几乎都拉着卷闸门，偶尔有店铺门口摆着花篮，黄色与白色在清冷的街道上显得扎眼。
Except for a few supermarkets, street-side shops were almost always sluice gates, flower baskets were occasionally placed in front of the shops, and yellow and white were conspicuous in the cold streets.
最近，杨林每天几乎只睡两个小时，吃几个面包。
Recently, Yang Lin slept almost two hours a day and ate a few loaves of bread.
中午群里的出行需求少了，他开车去东西湖区的医药厂，用朋友自发筹集的经费买酒精和口罩。
With less demand for lunch, he drove to a medicine factory in the Lake District and bought alcohol and masks with money raised by friends on their own initiative.
晚上又赶去武汉西高速路口附近的三丰加油站，在运送物资的货车抵达之前做好准备。
Evening to Wuhan West Highway junction near the Sanfeng gas station, in preparation for the arrival of goods trucks.
“从没见过车这么少的武汉。
"Wuhan, which has never seen so few cars.
” 他左手扶着方向盘，右手时不时翻看微信群里的消息，车速保持在30码。
His left hand held the wheel, and his right hand kept to 30 yards as he scanned the microphone.
（为保护受访者隐私，文中人物均为化名）1月26日，司机志愿者完成卸货后，清点物资。
To protect the privacy of the interviewee, the characters are all aliases. On January 26, the volunteer driver unloaded the goods and counted the goods.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“封城”后，志愿者车队故事。
Wuhan "closed the city" after the story of the volunteer convoy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉“封城”后，志愿者车队故事";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "他们就像城市“封城”后的毛细血管。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they look like capillaries after the city was "closed".
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
