流浪的武汉人。
A wanderer from Wuhan.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
图片来源：世卫组织网站文 |周航 李晓芳 王彦入 殷盛琳编辑 |王珊这原本应该是趟完美的旅行。
Source: WHO's Web site. Li Xiaofang Wang entered Yin Shenglin at Ren Sheng Lin. This was supposed to be a perfect trip.
武汉出发，成都集合，沿着318国道，一路往西，大年初一抵达拉萨——在布达拉宫瑰丽光彩的映照下，度过庚子新年的第一天。
Wuhan, Chengdu Gathering, along the 318 National Highway, all the way west, arrived in Lhasa on the first day of the Boxer New Year, in the brilliant light of the Potala Palace.
为了这趟旅程，陈寞和几位朋友谋划半年，买了成套的户外保暖服装，物资塞满了后备箱，除了大雪封住了稻城亚丁，一切如计划进行。
For this trip, Chen and a few friends planed for half a year and bought outdoor warm clothes. Everything was packed in the trunk, except that the snow sealed the rice town of Aden, and everything went as planned.
但第五天，旅程脱离了轨道。
But on the fifth day, the trip was off track.
西藏自治区芒康县检查站，一位医生，带着两位护士和一队警察，拦住了这辆湖北牌照汽车的去路。
A doctor, along with two nurses and a team of policemen, stopped the Hubei license plate at a checkpoint in Mankang, Tibet.
他们在检查站烤着火炉，用小太阳取暖，两个小时，量了四次体温，都是36度多。
They roasted the stove at the checkpoint, warmed themselves in the little sun for two hours and took four temperature readings, all of them above 36 degrees.
最后，检查人员传达了上级的回复，不允许再往前走，也请他们理解，“藏区医疗条件有限。
Finally, the inspectors conveyed the response of their superiors and did not allow them to go any further, asking them to understand that "Tibetan medical conditions are limited.
”这天是1月23日，武汉“封城”首日。
It was the first day of the Wuhan Sealing City on January 23.
和很多在外出游的武汉人一样，陈寞突然发现，自己成了回不了家的流浪者。
Like many Wuhan people traveling abroad, Chen Fei suddenly found that he became a homeless man who could not go home.
1月26日，武汉市市长周先旺在湖北省召开的新闻发布会上表示，目前大约有500多万人离开武汉。
On January 26, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said at a news conference in Hubei province that more than five million people had left Wuhan.
大多数武汉人是在“封城”前离开的。
Most of the Wuhan people left before the city was closed.
他们中，有外来务工人员、在湖北读书的大学生、武汉本地人，由于迟到的预警，他们照常返乡、探亲、旅游。
Among them, migrant workers, university students studying in Hubei, Wuhan native people, because of late warning, they return home as usual, family visits, tourism.
现在，一道“封城”令将他们阻隔在武汉之外，散落于异乡。
Now, a "closure" order will block them outside Wuhan, scattered in a foreign country.
电视里，所有人为武汉加油，现实中，武汉人在“流浪”。
Television, all for Wuhan refueling, in reality, Wuhan people in the "vagrant."
不受欢迎的过客禁止入藏的那一刻起，陈寞的出行就成了流浪之旅。
From the moment when unwelcome passers-by are forbidden to enter Tibet, Chen's lonely journey becomes a wandering journey.
他们掉转车头，一路向南，往云南前进。
They turned around and headed all the way south to Yunnan.
晚上到香格里拉，先买了温度计，严峻的形势让他们也担心，每天给自己量几次体温。
When they went to Shangri-La in the evening, they bought thermometers first, and the grim situation made them worry, taking their temperature several times a day.
游玩的心情也没了。
The mood of the play is gone.
第二天到丽江，一直在宾馆打游戏、打牌，只在吃饭时出了门，陈寞看到，古城游客不少，但大多数都没戴口罩。
The next day to Lijiang, has been playing games and cards in the hotel, only to eat out of the door, Chen Fei saw, many tourists, but most do not wear masks.
1月25日，除夕那天中午，到大理古城，麻烦再次出现了。
On January 25, at noon on New Year's Eve, the old city of Dali was again in trouble.
收费站检查，前面三辆大巴车游客测完体温后放行，他们却被留在了收费站，反复沟通一个小时，才得以进入。
The toll station checks, the first three bus visitors after the temperature of the release, they were left at the toll station, repeated communication for an hour before access.
到了酒店，量体温，入住，还没10分钟，前台就打电话，要求退房，“看到我们是湖北牌照。
At the hotel, temperature, check-in, not more than 10 minutes, the front desk called and asked to check out, "see we are Hubei license plate.
”最后沟通结果是可以住，但第二天必须离开。
The result was that they could stay, but had to leave the next day.
当天，大理市古城保护管理局发布通知，鉴于云南省启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应，1月25日晚上7点半起，大理古城不允许接待新客。
The ancient city of Dali was closed to new visitors from 7.30pm on January 25 in response to a major public health emergency, the city's ancient city of Dali said.
一家大理民宿的老板说，之前民宿店主们已自行劝退客人，陆续关店，“还自发举报接待了武汉游客的宾馆。
The owner of a residential building in Dali said that residents had withdrawn their guests and closed their stores. "They have also spontaneously reported that they have received tourists from Wuhan hotels.
”陈寞等人在云南接受卫生检疫。
Feb Chen and others are receiving health and quarantine in Yunnan.
受访者供图疫情扩散的风险真实存在着。
There is a real risk of spreading the epidemic among interviewees.
据官方通报，1月23日，一位28岁的武汉游客随团赴泸沽湖景区游玩，因发热咳嗽，当日下午到盐源县人民医院就诊，第二天被列入疑似病例。
An official report said that on January 23, a 28-year-old tourist from Wuhan, accompanied by a delegation to Lugu Lake Scenic Area, went to the People's Hospital of Yanyuan County in the afternoon of the same day and was included in the suspected case the next day.
也是在1月25日，泸沽湖景区一位客栈老板接到消息，景区只能出不能进，“剩下的客人26日必须全部走。
Also on January 25, an innkeeper in the Lugu Lake scenic area was told that the scenic area could not enter, "the rest of the guests must leave on the 26th.
”这天一早，货车司机林霖也被大理的宾馆老板娘赶了出来，她冷冰冰地吐出几个字：“酒店接到通知，暂停营业，不好意思，麻烦退一下房。
"Early that morning, Lin Lin, a lorry driver, was also driven out by the landlady of Dali's hotel." The hotel is informed, business is suspended.
”林霖关上门，收拾行李。
Lin Lin shut the door and packed his bags.
他知道，是自己的身份“闯了祸”。
He knew that it was his own identity that had "caused the disaster."
一个月前，他从湖北襄阳出发，拉了一车快递到武汉，去年12月9日，又从武汉接了一车快递到昆明。
A month ago, he set out from Xiangyang, Hubei Province, and took a express delivery to Wuhan on December 9 last year.
之后，他辗转贵州，广西，从广西拉了一车砂糖橘，1月22日抵达到大理。
After that, he rolled over Guizhou, Guangxi, pulled a load of sugar oranges from Guangxi, and arrived in Dali on January 22.
疫情爆发后，他在入住酒店时，会主动报身份，“我是湖北人”，为打消老板疑虑，又补了一句，“出来一个多月了，没回去过。
When the outbreak of the outbreak of the hotel, he will take the initiative to state his identity, "I am a Hubei people," to reassure his boss, added, "more than a month out, not back.
”他几乎整天待在房间，打王者荣耀，刷抖音，避免出门。
He stayed in his room almost all day, honoring the king, shaking his voice and avoiding going out.
但现在，他还是被赶了出来。
Now, however, he was thrown out.
林霖走到大理水果市场，钻进货车驾驶室，准备窝在这里，将就几晚。
Lin Lin walked to Dali fruit market, got into the cab of the truck, ready to nest here, will be a few nights.
因为疫情，能容纳八十台货车的市场，不见车影，大部分档口已关门。
Because of the outbreak, there is no sign of a market that can hold 80 trucks, and most of the stalls are closed.
砂糖橘也剩了半车，货主说特殊时期，没办法接货，林霖只能自己承受损失，眼看橘子堆在后车厢，蔫儿了下去。
Sugar orange also left half of the car, cargo owner said that special period, can not pick up goods, Lin Lin can only bear their own losses, watching the orange pile in the back of the car, slouching.
不仅是大理，这一天，全国旅游业按下了暂停键。
Not only Dali, this day, the national tourism press the pause key.
武汉姑娘温晴的地陪在电话里听说她是武汉人，干脆不来接了。
Wuhan girl gently accompanied in the telephone heard that she is Wuhan, simply not to come to pick up.
两个月前，温晴就报了旅行团，放假后带妈妈一起到云南玩一圈。
Two months ago, Wen Qing reported a tour group, after the holiday to take her mother to Yunnan for a visit.
她们1月18日从武汉启程，1月24日到达西双版纳机场，这是旅程的最后一站，地陪却消失了，温晴向旅行社反映情况，对方虽然迟疑，但还是为她们安排了一家酒店。
They left Wuhan on January 18th and arrived at Xishuangbanna Airport on January 24th. It was the last stop of their journey. However, Wen Ching told the travel agency that she hesitated but arranged a hotel for them.
但到了第二天，1月25日，她们就被酒店通知不再接收武汉籍的旅客了，让她们马上搬离。
But the next day, January 25, they were notified by the hotel no longer take in Wuhan passengers, let them move away immediately.
温晴带着妈妈在大街上游荡了一上午，找了好几家酒店，都得到一样的回复。
Warm and clear in the streets with her mother loitering all morning, found several hotels, all got the same response.
她打电话给当地110、疾控中心，甚至联系了政府热线和市长热线，最后被允许住进特定的酒店。
She called local 110, the CDC, even contacted the government hotline and the mayor's hotline, and was eventually allowed to stay in a specific hotel.
已经夜里十一点多，跑了一天，她和妈妈打算先住一晚再协商，680元一晚的价格她们实在消费不起。
It was past eleven o'clock in the night, and after a long day of running, she and her mother were going to stay one night and negotiate.
温晴母女住进酒店的时候，1月25日凌晨，30岁的赵洁和5岁的儿子，被拦在了泰国普吉机场。
Zhao Jie, 30, and her 5-year-old son were stopped at Phuket Airport in Thailand in the early morning of January 25.
赵洁猜测，问题大概出现在办托运时，自己说了几句武汉话，被身边的游客听到举报了，他们大多是同一个团的人。
Zhao Jie conjectures, the problem appears probably when do check-in, oneself said a few Wuhan words, be heard by nearby tourist to report, they are mostly same regiment person.
在登机口，无人敢排在她身后。
At the gate, no one dared stand behind her.
工作人员检查了护照，不允许登机，体温一量再量，都是36.2摄氏度左右，还是拒载。
The staff checked the passport, was not allowed to board the plane, body temperature is measured again, around 36.2 degrees Celsius, or refused to carry.
她愤怒地和对方争吵，最激动时摘下口罩，吓得本就四五米远的众人又后退几步。
She quarreled angrily with each other, took off her mask when she was most excited, and frightened the crowd, who were already four or five metres away, to step back a few steps.
儿子问她，“妈妈，为什么我们没病，这些人要说我们有病？”赵洁和儿子被拦在登机口，托运的行李也被从飞机上拿下来。
The son asked her, "Mommy, why aren't we sick, and these people say we're ill?" Zhao Jie and her son were stopped at the gate, and the checked luggage was taken off the plane.
受访者供图时间过去了很久。
It was a long time before the interviewee gave his plan.
儿子在椅子上睡着了。
The son fell asleep in his chair.
凌晨5点，泰方工作人员把精疲力竭的她带走了，给了一张医院照片，让她自己去开健康证明。
At 5 a. m., Thai staff took her out of exhaustion and gave her a picture of the hospital, leaving her to write her own health certificate.
后来旅行社派来了翻译帮她沟通。
Later the travel agency sent an interpreter to help her communicate.
排了两三个小时队，抽血，做心电图，量血压，检查口腔，量体温，36.4度，都没问题，出示了两份报告。
Two or three hours of queuing, blood extraction, electrocardiogram, blood pressure, oral examination, temperature, 36.4 degrees, no problem, two reports.
等她再次打车到机场时，已经是中午12点，买了祥鹏航空从昆明到济南的机票。
By the time she took another taxi to the airport, it was 12: 00 noon and had bought Xiangpeng airfare from Kunming to Jinan.
结果一直到傍晚坐上飞机，都没人找她要健康证明。
As a result, no one asked her for a health certificate until evening when she boarded the plane.
凌晨1点抵达昆明，还没出海关，她被边检人员带去检查，量体温，两天没睡，体温升到了37.2度，一下子成了高危人物，好在后续再量降了下来。
When she arrived in Kunming at 1: 00 a.m., she was taken to Kunming by border control officers to take her temperature. She did not sleep for two days. Her temperature rose to 37.2 degrees.
和飞机上另外几个武汉人一块，她生平第一次坐救护车，来到附近宾馆作进一步检查，集中观察，包吃包住。
Along with a few other Wuhan people on the plane, she took an ambulance for the first time in her life, came to a nearby hotel for further examination, focused on observation, package.
早先来的同乡告诉她，至少要隔离8天。
Earlier fellow countrymen told her to keep her in quarantine for at least eight days.
据统计，截止到1月26日24时，4096名武汉游客仍在境外。
According to statistics, as of 2400 hours on January 26, 4,096 Wuhan tourists were still outside China.
事后看，很多事情是在武汉“封城”之后彻底起变化的。
In hindsight, many things were completely changed after the "closure" of Wuhan.
各地陆续启动重大公共卫生突发事件一级响应。
Major public health emergency first-level responses have been launched.
在厦门，一家六口，五人从杭州来，一位老人从江西来，只因老人籍贯湖北，酒店拒绝他们入住。
In Xiamen, a family of six, five people from Hangzhou, an old man from Jiangxi, only because the old people from Hubei, the hotel refused them to stay.
一对34岁的武汉夫妻自驾西部游，抵达青海省刚察县时，被人举报到疾控中心。
A 34-year-old Wuhan couple drove west, arriving in Gangcha County, Qinghai Province, was reported to the CDC.
夫妻俩被单独隔离在酒店，车也被全面消毒。
The couple were kept in solitary confinement at the hotel and their car was thoroughly disinfected.
丈夫说，最近遭受的压力实在太大，“给青海遭成恐慌实在不好意思，但我们真的不是逃离武汉，很早就出门了。
The husband said that the recent pressure is too much, "Qinghai into panic really embarrassed, but we really do not flee Wuhan, very early out.
”不是没有人考虑过取消行程。
"Not that no one considered canceling the trip.
很早前，陈立就安排了普吉岛行程，武汉爆发疫情后，他也犹豫，但直到1月21日出发前，武汉市疾病预防控制中心主任的说法都是，“新型冠状病毒的传染力不强，疫情可防可控”。
Chen Li had arranged a trip to Phuket a long time ago. He hesitated after the outbreak of the disease in Wuhan, but until his departure on January 21, the director of the Wuhan CDC said, "the new coronavirus infection is not strong, the outbreak can be controlled."
他当时也没太在意。
He didn't care much either.
他和妻子顺利到达普吉岛，出海，浮潜，坐海景秋千，看无边落日。
He and his wife made it to Phuket, to sea, to snorkeling, to a seagoing swing and to the sunset.
直到1月23日一早，陈立醒来，从新闻上刷出“封城”的消息，他有些不安，“我们回去怎么办？”随即，他打开航司APP，页面显示，普吉直飞武汉的航班取消。
Chen woke up on the morning of January 23rd with some uneasiness about the news that the city had been closed. "What shall we do then?" Then he opened the Shipping Department APP and the page showed Phuket's direct flight to Wuhan cancelled.
陈立急了，联系领事馆，电话不通。
Chen Li is in a hurry. Contact the consulate.
联系航司、旅行社，客服不通。
Contact shipping department, travel agency, customer service is impassable.
1月25日，他提前退了房，来到机场，航司柜台工作人员告诉他，只能改签到深圳或广州。
On 25 January, he left his room early and arrived at the airport, where he was told by the airline counter staff that he could only sign to Shenzhen or Guangzhou.
广州最早那趟航班已满，他与妻子乘坐六点左右的飞机，返航深圳。
The earliest flight in Guangzhou was full. He and his wife flew back to Shenzhen on a plane around six o'clock.
当晚，他来到酒店，刚推开房门，走进房间，派出所的电话进来了。
That night, he arrived at the hotel, just opened the door, entered the room, the police station telephone came in.
“从哪里来？”“什么时候离开武汉的？”派出所提醒他，需要在酒店自行隔离14天。
"From where?" "When to leave Wuhan?" The police station reminded him that he needed to be isolated in the hotel for 14 days.
挂掉电话，陈立还没来得及喘口气，酒店经理和服务员带着体温计敲门进来，36.5度，体温正常。
Before Chen could catch his breath, the hotel manager and waitress knocked on the door with a thermometer. It was 36.5 degrees and normal.
接下来，他们又举起手机，对着陈立与妻子一通拍，理由是“给派出所报备”。
Next, they held up their cell phones and patted Chen Li and his wife on the grounds of "reporting to the police station."
陈立很生气。
Chen Li was angry.
他理解外地人对于武汉的恐慌。
He understood the fears of outsiders about Wuhan.
但作为普通市民，他也是受害者，人有户籍，病毒没有。
But as an ordinary citizen, he is also a victim, has household registration, the virus does not.
图片来源网络回不去的家突然爆发的疫情拦住了各地武汉游客的归乡路。
Picture source network can not go home sudden outbreak of the epidemic has stopped Wuhan tourists around the road home.
李曼原本应该在23号从三亚飞回武汉。
Li Man should have flown back to Wuhan from Sanya on the 23rd.
“封城”后，她取消航班，买了第二天取道杭州飞回老家恩施的机票。
After the city was closed, she cancelled her flight and bought a plane ticket the next day via Hangzhou to her hometown of Enshi.
但第二天，恩施也“封城”了。
But the next day, Enshi also "closed the city."
这是第一次全家外出过年，没想到滞留在了这里。
This is the first time the whole family went out to celebrate the New Year.
她买口罩、温度计，轻易不出门，去买吃的也把自己包得严严实实，“我相信自己的身体是好的，但也不能去害别人。
She bought masks, thermometers, went out easily, and wrapped herself up in food. "I believe my body is good, but I can't hurt anyone.
”住是最大的问题。
"Living is the biggest problem.
从酒店离开，她租了房子，一个月5000，不知为何走漏消息，当天就被邻居举报。
From the hotel left, she rented a house, a month 5000, do not know why leaked the news, the same day was reported by neighbors.
第二天，她拖着两个大行李箱，带着老小住进机场附近的小旅馆，两个房间，每晚600块。
The next day, she dragged her two large suitcases and took the young and old to a small hotel near the airport.
宾馆偏僻，附近餐馆歇业，只有一家便利店还开着，四个人中午啃了面包，晚饭每人吃了一碗泡面。
The hotel was remote, the nearby restaurant was closed, only a convenience store was open, four people nibbled bread at noon and everyone had a bowl of noodles for dinner.
除了旅游，不少武汉人是去和家人团聚的，他们也发现，自己成了不受欢迎的人。
Besides traveling, many Wuhan people go to reunite with their families. They also find themselves unwelcome.
刘宇的弟弟长居厦门。
Liu Yu's brother lives in Xiamen.
今年春节，一家人打算过去团聚。
The family is going to get together this Spring Festival.
住酒店的时候就因为他们来自武汉，闹了一场，110都惊动了。
When they live in the hotel because they are from Wuhan, made a scene, 110 are alarmed.
到了除夕当天，刘宇弟弟居住的小区居委会，给全员发送信息，家中若有湖北来访亲戚，请主动登记。
To New Year's Eve, Liu Yu brother living in the neighborhood committee, to send information to the full, if the family has Hubei visiting relatives, please voluntarily register.
刘宇弟弟打了电话。
Liu Yu's brother phoned.
原本，一家人打算除夕夜吃团年饭，但居委会通知，“不能再见面了”。
Originally, the family planned to eat New Year's Eve reunion dinner, but the neighborhood committee informed, "can not meet again."
晚上，弟弟来酒店送年夜饭，排骨藕汤，是刘宇儿子喜欢吃的。
In the evening, my brother came to the hotel to send dinner, the ribs lotus root soup, Liu Yu's son likes to eat.
但居委会知道后，勒令“不能再接触了”。
But when the neighborhood committee learned about it, it ordered "no more contact."
刘宇一家只能待在酒店，自行隔离。
The family could only stay in the hotel and isolate themselves.
她挺委屈的。
She's really wronged.
出发前，她记得，武汉政府的领导一直说疫情“可防可控”。
Before leaving, she recalled that Wuhan government leaders had said the outbreak was "preventable and controllable."
朋友圈转发一些段子，“莫碰我，我是武汉人”，她也以自嘲的方式与朋友调侃。
Friends circle forward some passages, "Do not touch me, I am Wuhan people," she also laughed at her friends in a self-deprecating way.
谁都没想到，疫情会发展到今天这个地步，“知道这么严重，我就不出来了。
No one expected the outbreak to reach the point where it is today. "Knowing how serious it is, I won't come out.
”眼下，她也回不去。
She could not go back now.
唯一的办法，就是等。
The only way is to wait.
她想起前两天，在弟弟小区碰到邻居，邻居的表情显得有些奇怪，现在她明白了，被等同于“病毒”的他们，让人避之不及。
She remembered the odd look on her neighbor's face the other day when she met her neighbor in her brother's neighborhood. Now she understood that they, who were equated with the "virus," were being shunned.
年轻妈妈陈笑和6个多月的宝宝则被隔离在丈夫老家汕头的一家精品酒店。
Chen Xiaolian, a young mother, and her six-month-old baby were quarantined at a boutique hotel in her husband's hometown of Shantou.
来到这个10多平米的宾馆房间已经3个小时，她依旧惊慌失措，宝宝在旁边哇哇地哭。
Three hours into the 10-square-metre hotel room, she still panicked and the baby cried.
回忆过去24小时内发生的所有事，陈笑只觉得脑子“嗡嗡地痛”。
Looking back at everything that had happened in the past 24 hours, Chen only felt a "buzzing pain" in his head.
前一天下午，家人在微信群里转来一份镇委办公室的的紧急通知，上面要求各村摸查两类人员：一类是湖北籍人员，一类是1月10日后从湖北回来的一切人员。
On the afternoon before, the family had sent an urgent notice from the township government office asking the villages to search for two groups of people: those of Hubei nationality and all those who had returned from Hubei after January 10.
陈笑来自武汉乡下，1月15日和老公带着宝宝回汕头婆家过年。
Chen smiled from Wuhan countryside, January 15 and her husband with her baby back to Shantou home for the New Year.
刚出武汉时，关于肺炎的消息还停留在“不存在人传人”，回到婆家后，她每天都在关注网上的相关新闻，担心湖北家人的情况。
Just out of Wuhan, the news about pneumonia is still "no human-to-human", returned to her mother-in-law every day, she is concerned about the news, worried about Hubei family.
直到1月20日钟南山院士接受采访，她才警觉起来，在家隔离，不怎么出门。
It was not until the interview with the academician Zhong Nan Shan on January 20th that she became alert, isolated at home, and rarely went out.
一家三口每天都测量体温，从未有过异常。
Three people in the family take their body temperature every day.
她觉得自己是从武汉来的，街坊邻居都知道，也不太敢出门。
She felt that she was from Wuhan, and that her neighbours knew and dared not go out.
看到登记表时，陈笑以为只是登记一下，就让公公将三个人的信息都报给了村委。
Seeing the registration form, Chen laughed to think it was just a registration, let the father-in-law report the information to the village committee.
结果到了下午4点多，村委的干部就带着穿着防护服的医务人员来挨家挨户接人，送到市区宾馆隔离。
As a result, more than 4 p.m., village committee cadres with protective clothing of medical personnel to pick up people door-to-door, to be sent to the city hotel isolation.
现场来了两辆警车，一辆救护车，闹哄哄一群人。
There were two police cars, an ambulance and a noisy crowd.
陈笑的婆婆和村委会的人认识，听说要被隔离的消息，婆婆先和他们吵了一架，问能不能不去，在家隔离。
Chen Xiaolin's mother-in-law and the villagers' committee knew each other and heard that they would be quarantined.
“他们说不行，那样的话就把全家都接走，一家人，包括公公婆婆全部都要带走。
"They said no, and then they would take the whole family away and the whole family, including my parents-in-law, away with them.
”最后没有办法，陈笑和丈夫仓促收拾了行李，带着宝宝跟着医务人员上了救护车。
As a last resort, Chen and her husband hastily packed their bags and took the baby to the ambulance with the paramedics.
“那一瞬间，我就掉眼泪，哭了，那是我最怕的时刻”，陈笑说，救护车上除了他们三口人，还有另外几个带着口罩的陌生人，车窗打不开，特别闷。
"At that moment, I shed tears and cried. That was the moment I feared most," Chen said. "In addition to the three of them, there were several strangers wearing masks on the ambulance.
下车后，医务人员为他们量了体温，陈笑老公被检测出温度37度，对方说偏热，将他与母子两人分开，带到市区医院进行隔离。
After getting off the bus, the medical staff took their temperature. Chen laughed at the temperature of 37 degrees. He said it was hot, separated him from mother and child and took him to the city hospital for isolation.
陈笑被送到宾馆后，给老公打了电话，老公被隔离在医院病房，什么防护的东西都没有发，病房里的人都绕着他的床位走。
Chen was sent to the hotel, his husband made a phone call, his husband was isolated in the hospital ward, everything was not delivered, the ward people around his bed.
陈笑一边哄着哭闹的儿子，一边担心老公的情况。
Chen laughed as he coaxed his crying son and worried about his husband.
没有人告诉她会被隔离多久。
No one told her how long she would be held in isolation.
出来的匆忙，她担心给孩子带的尿不湿不够，也不知道该找谁解决。
Out of the rush, she worried about the child brought not wet enough urine, do not know who to look for a solution.
酒店的人只告诉她们，不要瞎走动。
They only told them not to walk about.
到了吃饭时间，有人敲了两下房门，陈笑开门去接，外面一个人也没有，只看到地上的一袋食物。
At mealtime, someone knocked at the door twice. Chen smiled and opened the door to meet him. There was no one outside but a bag of food on the floor.
河南一村庄对武汉返乡人员的排查。
An investigation of Wuhan returnees in a village in Henan Province.
图片：《健康时报》“你让他们回哪里去？”如果不是这场疫情，董启农会迎来一年中最忙也是最充实的几天。
Photo: "Where do you want them to go?" If it hadn't been for the outbreak, Dong Qinghong would have had the busiest and most fulfilling days of the year.
厦门鼓浪屿小岛上的300多家民宿，4000多间客房会陆续被全国各地的游客挤满，并在大年初二到年初五抵达流量高峰。
More than 300 residential accommodation on the island of Gulangyu, Xiamen, more than 4,000 rooms will be filled by tourists from all over the country, and reached the peak flow between the second year of the New Year and the beginning of the fifth.
天气似乎都在为节日做准备，阳光在1月20日洒满整个小岛，但另一片乌云却渐渐笼罩头顶。
The weather seemed to be getting ready for the holidays. The sun was shining all over the island on January 20, but another dark cloud was gathering overhead.
也是从那天开始，岛上的居民、民宿老板开始向董启农表达自己的担忧。
From that day on, residents and homeowners on the island began to express their concerns to Dong Qinong.
72岁的董启农是鼓浪屿民宿协会会长，自己也在岛上经营着两家民宿。
Dong Qinong, 72, head of the Gulangyu Residential Association, also runs two residential homes on the island.
22日，岛上的60多名武汉游客中，有一位确诊患上了新型病毒肺炎，有居民看到疾控中心专人专车将患者转移出岛，“吓得腿都软了”。
One of the island's more than 60 Wuhan tourists was diagnosed with pneumonia yesterday, and residents were "scared to death" when they saw a CDC specially assigned car to remove the patient from the island.
董启农回忆，在武汉疫情还没大规模爆发时，有些谨慎的湖北游客选择取消预订，当时民宿的老板们还不太乐意，担心影响自己的收入。
Dong recalled that some cautious Hubei tourists chose to cancel bookings before the Wuhan epidemic broke out on a large scale, when homeowners were reluctant to allow their incomes to be affected.
董启农还做了动员，让民宿老板们给武汉旅客全额退订。
Dong Qinong also made a mobilization, let residential owners to Wuhan tourists to withdraw in full.
现在，岛上的人开始希望这群来自湖北的游客主动办理退房，离开鼓浪屿。
Now, the island people began to hope that the group of tourists from Hubei volunteered to check out, leaving Gulangyu.
双方戴着白色口罩，隔着两米远的距离交流，没有人知道怎么安置这60多名游客，也没有人愿意收留他们。
Wearing white masks and communicating two meters apart, no one knows how to place the 60-strong tourists and no one will take them in.
鼓浪屿的夜晚有些寒凉，游客里有一对年轻夫妻带着4岁的孩子，一家人在风中瑟瑟发抖。
Gulangyu's nights are chilly, with a young couple with four-year-old children among the tourists and the family shivering in the wind.
一家民宿的老板娘不忍心，让他们量了体温后，办理了入住手续。
A homeowner's wife couldn't bear to let them take their temperature and check in.
“人家已经到岛上了，你不能把人家扔下海吧。
"They have arrived on the island, and you cannot leave any one behind.
”董启农首先想找政府解决，“政府就让我们帮忙接待下来，尽量想办法，不能把人家拒之门外。
Dong Qinong wanted to see the government solve the problem first. "The government asked us to help by trying to find a way out of the way.
”他只能去说服民宿老板们让武汉游客多待几日，做好防护措施，每天测两次体温，定期消毒，报备，等待政府出台后续的安置方案。
He had to convince homeowners to let Wuhan tourists stay longer, take precautions, take temperature twice a day, disinfect them regularly, and wait for the government to come up with follow-up plans.
董启农决定开放自己的民宿，所有房型都以280元的价格提供给武汉游客居住。
Dong Qinong decided to open his own residential accommodation, all types of houses for 280 yuan to Wuhan tourists to live.
他把这一想法写成文章，发布在互联网上，呼吁“岛上兄弟民宿业者响应！不能将自己的骨肉同胞拒之门外！”没想到招来了谩骂和质疑。
He wrote the idea and posted it on the Internet, calling on "the island's brother residential workers to respond! Don't shut out their own brothers and sisters!"
“凭什么让我们全岛居民担风险？”“为什么不赶紧把他们赶出岛去？”甚至有人揣测他，“是不是想借机敛财？”说起这些，董启农几次忍不住拔高了声音，“我们民宿价格平均在500元上下，280元我们是赚了什么？23号武汉“封城”，你让他们回哪里去？政府部门第一次处理这个事，一下子也拿不出方案，难道就让他们都流落街头吗？”董启农也害怕被感染，“没有人想当圣父。
"Why not send them off the island quickly?" Some even wondered, "Are we trying to amass a fortune?" Dong raised his voice several times. "What do we earn by averaging about 500 yuan and 280 yuan?
”可是岛上居民和网友的反应让他疑惑，“为什么要把武汉人当成瘟神一样？”鼓浪屿街头 图片来源网络大理一家民宿的老板娘沫沫这几天也刚经历一场骂战。
But the reaction of the islanders and netizens left him wondering, "Why do you think Wuhan people are the plague?" The source network of Gulangyu Street Pictures Dali, a residential boardroom, has just experienced a few days of swearing.
近日，云南开始管控游客，各个旅游城市的酒店、停车场都不接待武汉人。
Recently, Yunnan began to control tourists, each tourist city's hotels, parking lot do not receive Wuhan people.
沫沫曾经接到过一个求助电话，是一家在疫情扩散前就出来旅游的武汉游客，一路被驱赶，从昆明被赶到大理，赶去丽江，又被赶回大理，没有酒店允许他们入住，一家人挤在车上睡了好几天。
Once Foam got a call from Wuhan, a tourist who had traveled before the epidemic spread. He was driven from Kunming to Dali, to Lijiang and back to Dali. No hotel allowed them to stay, and the family slept in the car for several days.
因为车牌号是“鄂A”，他们的车还被人砸了。
They also had their car smashed up because the number plate was "E-E."
那个妻子说着说着，在电话里哭了出来。
As she spoke, the wife burst out crying over the phone.
40岁的沫沫也是一名武汉人，2013年到大理经营民宿。
The 40-year-old foam is also a Wuhan, in 2013 to Dali to run residential accommodation.
去年12月底，她就开始关注武汉的情况。
At the end of December, she began to pay attention to Wuhan.
1月25日，她看到大理的同行发布信息，欢迎武汉人入住客栈。
On January 25, she saw Dali's peers release a message welcoming Wuhan people to the inn.
她也发帖声援：“武汉的乡亲们，带着健康证明来，我家可以提供30个以上的床位，绝不涨价。
She also sent a message of solidarity: "Wuhan folks, with health certificates, my family can provide more than 30 beds, never increase the price.
”她同样遭到了围攻，留言达到了几百条，网友质问她，为什么要私自收留武汉人？为什么不上报给政府部门？那家人也不敢去她的客栈，怕自己真的有问题，拖累了她。
"She was also besieged, leaving hundreds of messages, asking her why she had taken in Wuhan people without permission, why not report them to the government authorities, and the family did not dare to go to her inn for fear that they might have a problem and drag her down.
他们已经开车往湖北走，还不知道何时能回到武汉。
They have been driving to Hubei, but do not know when to return to Wuhan.
和鼓浪屿、大理一样，民间力量在救助过程中先发挥了作用，有人腾出地方义务收留，有人整理出各地还能接收武汉人的酒店地址，呼吁理性对待。
Like Gulangyu and Dali, the civil forces in the rescue process played a role in the first place, some local volunteers to take in, some collated places can also receive Wuhan hotel address, appeal for rational treatment.
陈祥国儿女都在国外，一个人住在重庆。
Chen Xiangguo's sons and daughters live abroad and live alone in Chongqing.
疫情爆发后，他很少出门。
He rarely went out after the outbreak.
前两天，他留意到，各地开始举报武汉车牌，赶武汉人离乡，不让武汉人住酒店，他觉得“太没人性了”。
Two days ago, he noticed that all over the world began to report Wuhan license plate, Wuhan people to leave, not to let Wuhan live in the hotel, he felt "too inhuman."
他瞒着家人，在同学群发了一则信息：武汉“封城”，大量武汉人逃离在外……我一个人在家生活，若有在重庆的武汉人，可以来我家自我封闭，我负责期间全部生活，直到疫情结束。
Without telling his family, he sent a message to the students: Wuhan "closed the city," a large number of Wuhan people fled from the outside... I live alone at home, if there are Wuhan people in Chongqing, can come to my home closed, I am responsible for my entire life until the end of the epidemic.
这则信息经截屏，在网络大量转发。
The message was captured and relayed over the network in large numbers.
陈祥国住的房子有四个卧室，三个卫生间，“如果需要，还有很大的改造空间。
Chen's house has four bedrooms and three bathrooms. "There is still a lot of room for improvement if necessary.
”他戴着口罩去超市采购日用品，收拾屋子，他他每天在家里等，害怕错过求助信息。
He went to the supermarket with a mask to shop for groceries and clean the house, and he waited at home every day for fear of missing help messages.
“我就觉得，应该站出来，帮助他们。
"I felt it was time to stand up and help them.
”至今，还没有武汉人与他联系。
So far, no Wuhan people have been in touch with him.
伤痕离开大理后，陈寞一行开车到了昆明。
After leaving Dali, Chen Lang and his wife drove to Kunming.
她希望从这里回家，但队伍里有人反对，武汉情况更严重，“路上也怕事”。
She wanted to go home from here, but some people in the team objected, Wuhan more serious situation, "fear of the road."
最后的决定是留下。
The final decision was to stay.
在找了十几家宾馆后，陈寞和朋友终于找到了一家愿意接纳他们的民宿，一次性订了十天。
After looking for a dozen hotels, Chen Fei and his friends finally found a home willing to accept them, a one-off booking for 10 days.
与此同时，各地陆续出台官方安置措施。
Meanwhile, official resettlement measures have been put in place throughout the country.
厦门市政府将鼓浪屿上的所有武汉旅客迁移出岛，安置在同一家酒店进行隔离观察。
Xiamen city government will Gulangyu all Wuhan visitors to move out of the island, placed in the same hotel for quarantine observation.
晚上10点，鼓浪屿民宿协会会长董启农搭乘着隧道巴士从鼓浪屿返回厦门，将岛上的武汉游客全数送出。
At 10 pm, Dong Qinong, the head of the Gulangyu Residential Association, returned to Xiamen from Gulangyu on a tunnel bus, sending off all Wuhan tourists on the island.
云南省也在这天出了方案，拨出酒店专门安置武汉游客；聚集了大量武汉人的广东湛江徐闻县提供了几个专门安置点；海南三亚市发布公告，明确市内所有酒店不得强迫已住店旅客离店。
Yunnan province also has plans to set aside hotels for Wuhan tourists; Guangdong's Zhanjiang Xu Wen county, which has a large number of Wuhan residents, has offered several special resettlement places; and Sanya Hainan has issued a notice making it clear that no hotel in the city can force its residents to leave.
温晴母女也等来了好消息：当地公安局协调母女俩住进指定的几所酒店，价格区间在380～680元之间。
The good news is that the local public security bureau has coordinated the stay of mothers and daughters in designated hotels with prices ranging from 380 yuan to 680 yuan.
但折腾了两天，接近半百的妈妈情绪已经不太稳定，一看到别人的冷脸，或者看到温晴和人吵架就开始掉眼泪。
But tossing two days, nearly half of the mother mood has not been stable, to see other people's cold face, or to see the warm and quarrelsome people began to shed tears.
温晴说，这两天见识了太多冷漠，她可能这辈子再也不会到云南来了。
Wen said she had seen so much apathy in the past two days that she would probably never come to Yunnan again.
在武汉游客聚集的微信群里，人们也对集中住宿持有不同看法。
In Wuhan tourists gathered in the micro-letter group, people also have different views on centralized accommodation.
有人对费用感到担心，更多的人则顾虑集中安置是否相当于隔离。
Some have concerns about the cost, while many more are concerned about whether the concentration of resettlement amounts to segregation.
“法律依据在哪里，难道所有武汉人都是疑似病人吗？”一位武汉游客说。
"Where is the legal basis? Are all Wuhan people suspected patients?" said a Wuhan tourist.
在和家里人商量后，他们计划在云南再住半个月。
After consulting with their families, they plan to stay in Yunnan for another half month.
1月27日，武汉市文化和旅游局致兄弟城市旅游行业同仁的一封信， 请求各地帮助武汉返家。
On January 27, Wuhan City Culture and Tourism Bureau sent a letter to colleagues in the tourism industry, requesting local help back home Wuhan.
在此之前，一些人已经踏上回乡的路。
Before that, some had set out on their way home.
滞留在昆明那几天，周晨和朋友自驾的那辆鄂A牌照车辆格外醒目，其他车路过时总是放慢速度，到哪都是警惕的眼神。
A few days later in Kunming, Zhou Chen and his friend's car with the E-E license plate stand out, other cars always slow down as they pass, everywhere are vigilant eyes.
昆明下了大雪。
It's snowing heavily in Kunming.
鹅毛那么大的雪花，周晨在武汉都没见过，居然在四季如春的昆明见到了。
Goose hair so big snowflakes, Zhou Chen in Wuhan have never seen, actually in the spring of Kunming saw.
看着窗外，她觉得一切事情就和这场雪一样扯，而她的心情就跟天气一样冷。
Looking out of the window, she felt that everything was pulling like the snow, and that her mood was as cold as the weather.
1月25日晚上，周晨在群里看到消息，虽然去武汉高铁停售，但可以曲线救国——坐到郑州东或驻马店，经停武汉时下车。
On the evening of January 25, Zhou Chen saw the news in the group, although to Wuhan high-speed rail stop selling, but you can curve to save the country - sitting in Zhengzhou East or Ma shop, stop at Wuhan when you get off.
她马上订了一张票。
She booked a ticket at once.
第二天8点上车，车厢空空荡荡，只有零散的旅客，都戴着口罩。
The next day at 8: 00, the car was empty, only scattered passengers, wearing masks.
她把乘务员拉到一边，问是否经停武汉，对方顿时紧张起来。
She pulled the flight attendant aside and asked if the train had stopped in Wuhan.
乘务长也来了，在车厢连接处的另一头，隔着一米多，再次详细询问了她。
The conductor also arrived, at the other end of the carriage junction, more than a meter apart, asked her again in detail.
乘务长说，车会停，但劝周晨别下。
The conductor said the bus would stop, but advised Zhou Chen not to leave.
周晨让对方放心，她明白各种利害关系，责任自负。
Zhou Chen reassured the other side that she understood the various interests, responsibility at her own risk.
她还告诉对方，这天是自己生日，自己只想回家。
She also told each other that it was her birthday and that she wanted to go home.
北方人嗓门大，交谈的声音传到了车厢，周晨回车厢发现，之前客客气气的一位阿姨躲到了后面，另外几个年轻人倒是镇定自若。
The voices of the northerners were loud, and the voices of conversation reached the compartments of the carriages. Chou Chen returned to the car, where a polite aunt had taken refuge behind, and the other young men were calm and collected.
乘务员开始不停在车厢里拖地，收拾垃圾，给周晨身上喷洒消毒剂。
The conductor began to mop the floor of the car, collect the rubbish and spray disinfectant on Zhou Chen.
他告诉周晨，摸排后发现全车有十多个武汉人，已经集中到前面车厢，等会儿统一下车。
He told Zhou Chen, after the layout of the car found more than a dozen Wuhan people, has gathered in the front compartment, later unified get off.
他还告诉她，自己经历过非典，给病人送过餐。
He also told her that he had experienced SARS and delivered meals to patients.
乘务员带来了一箱水，分发给每个武汉人，给周晨前面自称医务人员的那个，更是多发了几瓶。
The flight attendant brought a box of water, which was distributed to everyone in Wuhan, and several more bottles were given to the man claiming to be a medical worker in front of Zhou Chen.
列车终于在下午4点到达武汉。
The train finally reached Wuhan at 4 pm.
下车时，乘务员向人群挥手致意，大声地说保重。
As they got off, the conductor waved to the crowd and said take care.
出了站，人们纷纷和空旷的武汉站留影。
Out of the station, people in succession and the open Wuhan Station to take photos.
周晨终于见到了父母。
Zhou Chen finally met his parents.
1月22日出门的时候，她叮嘱他们戴口罩，父母还不以为意，照样出门遛狗，如今却如临大敌，第一时间奉上一次性手套。
When she left the house on January 22, she told them to wear masks. Her parents, still reluctant to walk their dogs, were now giving them disposable gloves.
武汉已经和她离开时完全不一样。
Wuhan is quite different from the one she left.
空空荡荡的，既孤独，又带给她一种庄严肃穆的感觉。
It was empty, lonely, and gave her a sense of solemnity.
回家的三环已经封路，车辆绕了一圈，又经过了一次检查，量了体温，才回到家。
The three rings have been closed home, the vehicle around a circle, after a check, took temperature, before returning home.
一路上，家里人都在埋怨，当初不让出去还跑出去。
Along the way, the family complained that they would not go out and run out.
但周晨内心是温暖的。
But Zhou Chen's heart was warm.
她觉得自己从没像现在这样爱武汉。
She felt that she had never loved Wuhan as much as she did now.
这天是大年初二，她的农历生日。
It was the second day of the New Year, her birthday.
她去超市买了本地的珍珠丸子，蒸着吃，软软糯糯的，她最好这口。
She went to the supermarket to buy local pearl balls, steamed, soft waxy waxy, she had better mouth this.
旅途的劳累很快就恢复了。
The strain of the journey soon recovered.
可是对于另外一些创痕，她觉得或许需要很久才能弥补。
But there were other scars that she felt might take a long time to make up for.
（除陈祥国、董启农外，文中人物为化名）版权声明：本文所有内容不得转载、摘编或以其他形式使用，另有声明除外。
(Except for Chen Xiangguo and Dong Qinnong, the characters are pseudonyms) copyright notice: All content in this article shall not be reproduced, excerpted or otherwise used, unless otherwise stated.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
流浪的武汉人。
A wanderer from Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "流浪的武汉人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; stray Wuhan & quot;;
var msg_desc = "一道“封城”令将他们阻隔在武汉之外，散落于异乡。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; isolated from Wuhan and scattered abroad.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
