肺炎疫情下的TR188航班全员隔离事件。
Full isolation of flight TR188 in the event of pneumonia.
肺炎疫情下的TR188航班全员隔离事件。
Full isolation of flight TR188 in the event of pneumonia.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：1月26日晚间，杭州官方发布“新型冠状病毒肺炎”最新通报，25日9时至24时，杭州市新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例15例，其中2名确诊患者正是乘坐TR188次航班抵达杭州萧山机场的乘客。
A New Coronavirus Pneumonia A new coronavirus has been confirmed in Hangzhou between 0900 and 2400 hours on January 26, 2008. Two of the confirmed cases were passengers arriving at Xiaoshan Airport on flight TR188.
文 |殷盛琳 程静之编辑 |王珊如果按照原本的计划，大年初一这天，杭州人戴军要带妻儿一起去探望父母，给小辈包几个红包。
Ren Sheng Lin's editor and daughter Wang Sheng If Wang had followed the original plan, Hangzhou Dai Jun would have taken his wife and children to see their parents and wrapped up some red envelopes for the younger generation.
这次从新加坡旅游回来，他还给家人买了礼物。
On his return from a trip to Singapore, he bought gifts for his family.
但现在，由于从新加坡回杭州的TR188航班上乘坐了116名武汉旅客，其中两人发烧，他们一家三口只能分别待在杭州市委党校的三个房间里，与其他216名乘客及11名机组人员一起，接受持续两周的隔离医学观察。
But now, with 116 Wuhan passengers aboard flight TR188 from Singapore back to Hangzhou, two of them have a fever and the family can only stay in three rooms of Hangzhou Municipal Party School for two weeks under quarantine with 216 other passengers and 11 crew members.
这场突如其来、事先毫不知情的的同乘经历，让这架航班上的乘客不得不重新审视正在全国蔓延的疫情。
The experience, which came suddenly and without prior knowledge, forced passengers on the plane to re-examine the epidemic that is spreading across the country.
他们中的绝大多数经历了人生第一次在机场度过的除夕夜，也头一遭面对这样的突发事件。
Most of them experienced their first New Year's Eve at the airport, and for the first time faced such an emergency.
有人崩溃大哭，也有人想到17年前非典时期隔离在家的经历，有人担心自己是否已经感染病毒。
Some people cry, others think of the SARS quarantine 17 years ago, and some worry about whether they are infected with the virus.
慌乱之中，这群素不相识的陌生人也展露出相同处境的盟友之谊。
In a panic, the group of strangers also revealed the same situation of alliance friendship.
他们在微信群里互相鼓劲，相信能一起挨过去。
They encouraged each other in the small group, confident that they would get through it together.
1月26日晚间，杭州官方发布“新型冠状病毒肺炎”最新通报，25日9时至24时，杭州市新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例15例，其中2名确诊患者正是乘坐TR188次航班抵达杭州萧山机场的乘客。
On the evening of January 26, Hangzhou authorities released the latest report on the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia," a new coronavirus infection confirmed in 15 cases in Hangzhou between 0900 and 2400 hours. Two of the confirmed cases were passengers arriving at Xiaoshan Airport on flight TR188.
酒店外医务人员为乘客测量体温。
The medical staff outside the hotel took the passenger's temperature.
受访者供图党校里的隔离房间1月25日上午11点，飞机抵达杭州14小时后，戴军一家终于坐上了机场大巴。
The Dai family boarded the airport bus 14 hours after the plane arrived in Hangzhou at 11 a.m. on January 25.
大巴的终点是杭州市委党校。
The bus terminates at Hangzhou Municipal Party School.
航班上，除了116名武汉乘客，其余多为去新加坡的杭州旅行团成员，为了方便安排，避免交叉感染，大巴车上，大家按照旅行团为单位坐在一起。
In addition to the 116 Wuhan passengers, most of the other members of the Hangzhou package tour group to Singapore were on board. To facilitate the arrangement and avoid cross-infection, the bus passengers sat together as tour groups.
另外也有像戴军一家这样的散客，以及零星几个外国人。
There are also individual visitors like Dai Jun and a few foreigners.
车上有不少小孩，闹腾得很，气氛从最开始的凝重慢慢缓和起来，甚至有人调侃说，“我们要养老去啦。
There were many children on the bus, noisy, from the beginning of the atmosphere slowly relaxed, even some joke, "we are going to old age.
”12点多，大巴抵达一栋白色外墙，灰色顶盖的建筑，这里便是市委党校的宾馆区，TR188航班219位乘客及11位机组人员将在这里进行两周的隔离观察。
At more than 12 o'clock, the bus arrived at a white-walled, grey-roofed building, the guesthouse block of the city's Party School, where 219 TR188 passengers and 11 crew members will spend two weeks in quarantine.
那时他们并不知道，同机的两位武汉乘客因发烧被送到萧山区第一人民医院，其他武汉乘客被隔离在机场附近的酒店。
At the time, they did not know that two Wuhan passengers on the plane had been taken to Xiaoshan First People's Hospital for fever, and other Wuhan passengers were quarantined in a hotel near the airport.
入住党校宾馆之前，戴军和其他乘客需要先确认健康状况。
Dai and other passengers need to confirm their health before being admitted to the Party School Hotel.
穿着防护服，佩戴医用口罩及护目镜的医务人员在宾馆大门外摆了两张桌子，逐一为乘客测量体温。
Medical staff wearing protective clothing, medical masks and goggles set up two tables outside the main entrance to the hotel to take the passengers' temperature one by one.
推着宝宝车的年轻妈妈走到桌前，医务人员弯下腰给小孩子做检查。
The young mother wheeled the baby car to the table, and the paramedics bent down to examine the child.
戴军被分到一间十几平米的房间，有电视和电脑，可以在室内办公。
Dai was assigned a room of about 10 square meters with TV and computer, which could be used indoors.
每个人拿到两份文件，《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎健康科普知识》以及《来杭人员集中医学观察告知书》，上面明确了有关肺炎的防护以及隔离的时长、注意事项。
Each person was given two documents, "Health science knowledge of pneumonia of new coronavirus infection" and "Notice of concentrated medical observation of Lehang personnel," which clarifies the protection of pneumonia and the duration and precautions of isolation.
另外，在办完入住之后，党校的工作人员组织大家建了一个微信群，工作人员在群里分别介绍了自己的职责，从生活到卫生，每项需求都有定点对接的人。
In addition, after the check-in, the staff of the Party School organized a micro-group of people to introduce their respective roles in the group, from life to health, each need to have a designated docking person.
由于是被紧急隔离，起飞时，新加坡仍然是夏天的温度，很多人以为到达杭州后能打车或者被家人接回，并没有准备羽绒服。
Because of the emergency isolation, Singapore was still at summer temperatures at the time of take-off, and many people thought they would be able to take a taxi or be picked up by their families when they arrived in Hangzhou.
一些乘客开始在群里提需求，杭州人曾先生说，大家的物资准备非常匮乏，需要的物品很多，“小到牙膏、牙刷、大牙签、酒精、棉棒，大到棉衣、各种衣服。
Some passengers began to demand demand in the group, and Mr. Zeng, a Hangzhou native, said supplies were scarce, ranging from toothpaste, toothbrushes, toothpicks, alcohol, cotton rods, to cotton clothes and clothes of all kinds.
”带着宝宝的乘客，奶粉没带够，也在群里求助。
Passengers with babies, who didn't bring enough milk, also sought help in the group.
接到信息汇总后，就有工作人员去紧急采购。
Once the information is aggregated, staff members go on an emergency basis.
工作人员为被隔离乘客送来棉衣。
The staff delivered cotton clothes to the segregated passengers.
受访者供图之后，大家在宾馆大厅分开，各自进入房间。
After the interviewees supplied the drawings, they separated in the hotel lobby and entered the rooms separately.
午餐很快分发下来，豌豆炒虾仁、手撕包菜、大虾，荤素搭配，还有水果。
Lunch was quickly handed out, with peas fried shrimp, hand-ripped cabbage, prawns, meat dishes, and fruit.
碗筷是一次性的。
Chopsticks are disposable.
自此之后，每日三餐由工作人员统一敲门发放。
Since then, three meals a day have been delivered by staff knocking on doors.
当天下午，一份落款为“市委党校隔离点临时指挥部”的通知就发到微信群里。
In the afternoon, a notice signed for the "temporary headquarters of the Party School Separation Point" was sent to the message group.
规定在隔离期内，留观人员非必要不许离开房间，不许串门，禁止点外卖。
During the isolation period, the visitors are not required to leave the room, not to visit the door, not to order take-out.
如果需要家属送东西的，可以放在党校对面的指定地点，工作人员登记后定时运送并转交。
If the need for family delivery, can be placed in the party school opposite the designated location, staff members registered regular delivery and transfer.
每天，乘客们需要在上午9点和下午三点半各量一次体温，在群内及时报告相关情况。
Passengers are required to take temperature at 9: 00 am and 3: 30 pm each day to report the situation in the group.
工作人员送餐时，22岁的杭州女孩尹笑每次都将门拉开一条缝，伸出手接过塑料餐盒，道一声“谢谢”。
When the staff delivered the meal, 22-year-old Hangzhou girl Yin laughed at the door opened each time, reached out and took the plastic box, said "thank you."
一次，一名工作人员给尹笑送饭时没有戴好口罩，“你把口罩戴好，我再出来。
On one occasion, a staff member did not wear a mask when delivering food to Yin. "Put your mask on and I'll come out again.
”尹笑提醒他。
Yin smiled to remind him.
“我们都不怕，你们就更不要怕了。
"We are not afraid, let alone you.
”对方说。
"said the other.
隔离观察的措施完善，但因一次意外的航班，被困在十几平米房间里的乘客仍不可避免地感到恐慌。
The quarantine measures are perfect, but the passengers trapped in a dozen square meters room are still unavoidably frightened by an unexpected flight.
晚上九十点钟，一名女生哭了，在群里发语音，声音都是颤抖的。
At nine o'clock in the evening, a girl cried and spoke in the group, her voice shaking.
“我有点难受，可以过来人吗？”“不用急，医生马上过去了。
"I feel a little sick, may I pass?" "Don't worry, the doctor will be there in a minute.
”工作人员回复。
"the staff replied.
“来了吗，我真的好怕。
"Are you coming? I'm really scared.
”大家开始互相鼓励。
"Everyone began to encourage each other.
有人安慰她，“不要紧张，喝点热水，窗户打开透透气”；有人转发一些抖音上的搞笑视频，试图岔开话题；有人在群里问：“可以喝酒吗，家里的小吃、特产可以带来吗？”另一些人感觉自己“没病也要关出病来了”，“我觉得好多人身体没有毛病，内心都好恐惧”。
Someone comforted her, "Take it easy, drink hot water, open the windows"; someone relayed some funny videos on the jitter and tried to sidestep the conversation; someone in the group asked, "Can you drink, the family snacks, specials can bring?" Others felt "sick without illness" and "I think a lot of people are healthy and fearful."
后来，党校就在群里配备了一名心理医生，为大家提供心理咨询。
Later, the Party School in the group to provide a psychologist, to provide psychological counselling.
隔离让他们的生活彻底被打断。
Isolation completely disrupted their lives.
几名新加坡的留学生担心赶不回学校考试，还有探亲人员会误了回新加坡的航班。
Several Singaporean students feared they would not be able to return to their school exams, while others would miss their return flight to Singapore.
戴军从事餐饮业，平时工作繁忙，现在哪也去不了，他干脆让自己静下来，泡茶喝。
Dai Jun engaged in catering, usually busy work, can not go anywhere now, he simply let himself calm down, make tea to drink.
上高二的儿子被隔离在另一个房间，他打电话跟儿子说，让哥哥把寒假作业送过来，特殊情况也不能偷懒。
The son of a high school sophomore was quarantined in another room. He called his son and told him to send in his winter homework.
尹笑和妈妈、姑姑、外婆一一联系报平安，剩下的时间就和隔壁房间的男朋友视频，并打算刷完美剧《良医》。
Yin contacted his mother, aunt and grandmother one by one and spent the rest of the time with her boyfriend in the next room.
做汽车行业的曾先生领到了自己的笔记本电脑，未来这段日子，他打算过规律的生活，他和孩子在同一个房间，还可以辅导孩子作业。
Mr. Zeng, who works in the auto industry, has received his laptop, and plans to live a regular life in the future, sharing a room with his children and helping them with their homework.
但关掉手机，不再浏览满屏的消息后，很多人还是忍不住想：为什么事件没有通知大家飞机上有武汉人？自己究竟会不会感染？隔离期间的午餐。
But after turning off the phone and skimming through the screen, many people couldn't help but wonder why the incident did not inform everyone that there were Wuhan people on the plane.
受访者供图坐在前排的武汉乘客早在几个月前，44岁的曾先生就订好了去新加坡的往返机票。
Wuhan passenger planning to sit in the front row The 44-year-old Mr. Zeng booked a round trip ticket to Singapore as early as a few months ago.
这趟旅行是他给上小学的儿子的一份礼物，想带儿子感受一下新加坡的国立大学、博物馆和美术馆。
The trip was a gift he gave to his son in elementary school, who wanted to take him to Singapore's state universities, museums and galleries.
他们定在1月19日下午出发，24日下午回国，还能赶上除夕的年夜饭，也不耽误春节走亲戚。
They are scheduled to leave on the afternoon of January 19, return home on the afternoon of 24, can also catch New Year's Eve dinner, do not delay the departure of relatives.
出发之前，曾先生就看到了新型冠状病毒肺炎的相关新闻，不过病例只出现在武汉，官方也通报未发现明显人传人现象，曾先生觉得问题不大。
Before leaving, Mr. Zeng saw news of the new coronavirus pneumonia, but the case only appeared in Wuhan, officials also reported no apparent human-to-human transmission, Mr. Zeng felt the problem was not serious.
没有料到的是，事情在两天后就转变了一个风向。
Unexpectedly, two days later the wind changed direction.
钟南山院士在央视的采访中肯定了病毒人传人现象，国内确诊病例的数字不断翻新，新加坡很快也出现了首例确诊病例。
Academician Zhong Nan Shan in the CCTV interview confirmed the phenomenon of human-to-human transmission of the virus, the number of confirmed cases in the country is constantly renovation, Singapore soon has the first confirmed case.
回程成了曾先生最大的忧虑，“毕竟这么多中国人在一个密闭的飞机里。
The return trip became Mr Tsang's biggest worry: "After all, so many Chinese are in an airtight plane.
”曾先生是TR188航班中为数不多的散客，他记得，过海关时，新加坡并没有对他进行体温检测。
Mr Tsang, one of the few retail passengers on flight TR188, remembers that Singapore did not conduct a temperature test when he passed through customs.
上机后，他和儿子坐在经济舱，位置靠后，一路往后走，他发现有些人戴了口罩，有些人则没有，不过机组人员都戴上了口罩。
After boarding the plane, he and his son were sitting in economy class, back, and walking all the way back. He noticed that some of them were wearing masks, while others were not, although the crew were wearing masks.
除去疫情的阴影，这趟旅程与以往并没有什么不同。
Despite the shadow of the epidemic, the journey is no different than it used to be.
四个多小时里，曾先生和儿子照常进餐、喝饮料、上洗手间，睡一会儿又玩一会儿iPad。
For more than four hours, Mr. Zeng and his son ate, drank, went to the bathroom, slept for a while and played with the iPad.
飞机提前到达了，曾先生还挺开心，“能提前回家吃年夜饭了。
The plane arrived early, and Mr. Zeng was very happy. "I can go home early for New Year's Eve dinner."
”与曾先生不同，戴军在登机前就意识到TR188航班上很可能有武汉乘客。
"Unlike Mr Zeng, Dai realized before boarding that there were probably Wuhan passengers on flight TR188.
“新加坡樟宜机场是全世界最漂亮的机场，大家都在拍照，戴口罩的人很少，结果到了登机口，突然就发现怎么那么多中国人戴着口罩？”戴先生当时就感觉有点奇怪，上高二的儿子在手机上查到酷航在一天前就发了微博，通知1月23日至1月27日武汉新加坡往返航班被取消，已购买机票的旅客可进行退改申请，其中一条是“可提出更改出发地或目的地申请”，他们猜测那些戴口罩的旅客有可能是打算飞回家乡不得不改签至杭州的武汉人。
"Singapore's Changi Airport is the most beautiful airport in the world, everyone is taking photos, few people wearing masks, and suddenly found out why so many Chinese are wearing masks." Mr. Dai felt a little strange at the time.
登机后，发现包括空姐在内的机组人员也佩戴了口罩，戴军更加坚信了自己的判断。
After boarding the plane, found that the crew including the stewardess also wore masks, Dai Jun confirmed his own judgment.
因为不想错过回家过除夕，戴军一家仍然坐上了TR188航班。
Not wanting to miss New Year's Eve, the Dai family still boarded flight TR188.
他现在想来有些后怕：一家三口在乘机过程中并没有佩戴口罩。
He now wanted to be afraid: the family of three did not wear masks during the flight.
之前，杭州市内的口罩已经接近脱销，家人托他在新加坡代购一些回国，他去了几个药店和超市，都卖光了。
Before, the mask in Hangzhou city has nearly run out of sales, his family entrusted him in Singapore to buy some home, he went to several pharmacies and supermarkets, all sold out.
走进711，还没来得及开口，工作人员直接说，我们没有口罩。
Walking into 711, before he could open his mouth, the clerk said straight away, We had no masks.
“就等于中国人已经把一个核心的旅游区域的口罩全部买完了。
"It's like the Chinese have already bought all the masks in a core tourist area.
”戴军说。
"said Dai.
飞机上，戴军一家三口的座位在高级经济舱，比较靠前，曾有空姐来问，可以给他们换一个更安静点的地方，但最终也没有给换。
On the plane, Dai Jun family of three seats in high-class economy class, more forward, have been asked by the stewardess, can give them a quieter place, but ultimately did not change.
后来在机场隔离区，戴军找过这个空姐问原因，空姐告诉他，本以为大部分武汉人在经济舱，想把一家三口调到前面，安全一些。
Later in the area of separation of the airport, Dai Jun asked the stewardess why, stewardess told him, had thought that most Wuhan people in the economy class, would like to move the family to the front, safer.
结果一问才发现，商务舱里面基本全部都是武汉人。
As a result, I found that the business class is basically all Wuhan people.
因为有很多小孩子，机舱里比较吵闹，戴军记得有几个乘客在咳嗽，儿子在旁边提醒他，戴军并没有太在意。
As there were so many children and the cabin was noisy, Dai remembered several passengers coughing. His son reminded him that Dai didn't care too much.
他赶着回去做年夜饭，出来旅行前，已经备好了食材放在冰箱里。
He hurried back to the New Year's Eve dinner, and before he went out on a trip, he had prepared ingredients for his trip and put them in the refrigerator.
他们谁都没有想到，事情早已偏离既定的轨道。
None of them expected that things would have gone off track.
1月25日晚9点45分，TR188航班提前15分钟到达杭州萧山机场，大家各自取下行李，准备下机。
January 25 evening at 9.45 p.m., flight TR188 arrived 15 minutes early Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport, everyone took down their respective luggage, ready to get off the plane.
这时，机上广播突然响起，要求所有人放下行李，坐回原位。
At this point, the announcement suddenly sounded, and asked everyone to put down their luggage and sit back.
大概十分钟过后，三四名穿着白色防疫服的工作人员上机，要求每个人填写一份健康说明表格，包括户籍所在地、近28天出行情况、跟武汉人是否有过接触、身体是否感到不适等信息。
About 10 minutes later, three or four workers in white uniforms boarded the plane and asked each person to fill out a health statement form that included information about the domicile, travel conditions for nearly 28 days, whether there had been contact with Wuhan people and whether they felt unwell.
“我们以为只是例行检查，是必须要做的。
"We thought it was just a routine check-up, something we had to do.
”尹笑说。
"said Yin.
她和男朋友去新加坡跟团旅行，也是1月19日出发，24日回国，航班由旅行社安排。
She and her boyfriend to Singapore on a tour, also set out on January 19, 24 home, the flight arranged by the travel agency.
一路上，飞机遇过两三次颠簸，有小孩总在哭闹，原本害怕疫情的她忧虑感加重了。
Along the way, the plane encountered two or three bumps, there are always children crying, fear of the outbreak of her anxiety increased.
除了吃东西，她和男友一直都戴着口罩。
In addition to eating, she and her boyfriend have been wearing masks.
表格填写完后，他们在座位上等待。
After completing the form, they waited in their seats.
机上的广播又开始播报，来自武汉、去过武汉、和武汉人有过接触的旅客，坐在原位不要下机。
The radio began to broadcast, from Wuhan, has been to Wuhan, and Wuhan people have had contact with the passengers, sitting in situ do not get off the plane.
走到前排时，曾先生发现整个舱位都没动，有的还用武汉方言聊天，他心里立马“咯噔”了一下，“原来觉得可能是个位数，怎么可能有100多个武汉人！”他不知道怎么跟儿子描述眼前的事，只是叮嘱口罩不许拿下来。
When he got to the front row, Mr. Zeng found the whole cabin still untouched, some were chatting in Wuhan dialect, and immediately thought, I thought it might be a single digit, how could there be more than 100 Wuhan people!
同样看到这一幕的尹笑感到愤怒。
Also saw this scene Yin laughed angrily.
她发现附近留下来的人大概就有七八个，最近的只隔了三排，下飞机时她瞄了一眼那个人的健康信息表，户籍信息是湖北十堰。
She found that there were about seven or eight people left nearby, the latest only three rows, and as she disembarked she glanced at the man's health information sheet.
那些武汉乘客，有人低着头不说话，有人似乎避开了她的眼神。
Those Wuhan passengers, some bowed their heads do not speak, someone seems to avoid her eyes.
“都到杭州了，为什么会有这样子的事情？”尹笑忍不住哭了。
"All to Hangzhou, why can there be such a thing?" Yin could not help crying.
下飞机坐接驳车时，防疫人员发放了新口罩，她在自己的口罩外面又加了一层。
As she got off the plane and got on the feeder, a new mask was issued and she added another layer to her mask.
那时，他们的家人还不知道发生了什么。
At that time, their families did not know what had happened.
曾先生的妻子已经准备好了饭菜、烧好了洗澡水，等待父子俩回家，一起度过除夕夜。
Mr. Zeng's wife had prepared the food, cooked the bath water, and waited for the father and son to return home for the New Year's Eve.
尹笑的朋友在机场大厅里接机，母亲则在家里等着她。
Yin's friends pick up the plane in the airport lobby while his mother waits at home waiting for her.
党校隔离宾馆房间。
Party school quarantined hotel rooms.
受访者供图除夕的雨“请TR188的乘客在指定的通道行走，或者是指定的通道离开。
Respondents for New Year's Eve Rain "please ask TR188 passengers to walk along the designated channel or to leave the designated channel."
”杭州萧山机场的广播循环播放。
"Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport broadcast the cycle.
戴军回忆，出来到机场大厅后，乘客就被隔离了，现场拉起警戒线，将大厅分成三部分。
Dai recalled that after coming out to the airport lobby, the passengers were isolated, the scene pulled up the security line, the hall divided into three parts.
穿着防护服的医务人员隔在TR188乘客和其他乘客中间。
The medical personnel in protective clothing were separated between the TR188 passengers and the other passengers.
周围有很多警察，穿着防护服的人冲他们喊：往左边走，就在那等！“这种架势已经吓得不敢说话了”，戴军说。
There were a lot of policemen around, and people in protective clothing shouted to them, Go left, wait there! "The pose is too scared to speak," Dai said.
现场先是安静了一会儿，随着时间推移，陆续有人不耐烦，和工作人员起了冲突，质问他们怎么还不让大家走？他上前疏解，告诉对方，要先解决一下大家的个人问题，飞机上没有餐食，大家还饿着肚子。
The scene was quiet for a while, and as time went on, there was some impatience and a struggle with the staff asking why they would not let us go He stepped forward and told each other to solve their personal problems first, there was no food on the plane and everyone was hungry.
很快，机场人员给大家提供了免费的餐食，不限量。
Soon, the airport staff gave you free meals, unlimited.
一名机场负责人告诉他们，等武汉乘客的确诊信息过来，如果都没有问题，他们就可以在家隔离。
An airport official told them they could stay at home if there were no problems with the confirmed information from Wuhan passengers.
曾先生告诉妻子，晚饭赶不上吃了，争取一结束就回去，“不管怎样，回来以后会自我隔离，也跟亲戚打电话，过年不走动了。
Mr. Zeng told his wife that he could not catch up with dinner and would go back as soon as he was finished. Anyway, he would isolate himself on his return and call his relatives.
”大家还期待着，可能武汉人全部检查完了，就可以放行。
"We also look forward to the possibility that Wuhan people have all checked out, can be released.
那是他们当时所做的最坏打算。
That was the worst they had ever done.
但之后的几个小时里，他们没有收到任何放行的消息。
However, in the hours that followed, they did not receive any information about their release.
戴军心里明白，可能真的要被隔离观察了。
Dai knew in his mind that he might really be watched in isolation.
一月的杭州天气阴冷，外面下起了淅淅沥沥的小雨。
It was cold and cloudy in Hangzhou in January and the drizzling rain was falling outside.
很多人上飞机穿的是短袖，厚衣物在行李箱里，行李还没有取到，大概是为了空气流通，大厅里的空调并没有开，有人开始感觉到冷。
Many had boarded the plane in short sleeves, heavy clothes in suitcases, luggage that had not yet been collected, presumably to keep the air flowing, the air-conditioning in the hall not on, and people began to feel cold.
冷暖交替间，有人心跳加速，开始出现不适；一名孩子体温上升，伴有咳嗽，医护人员量过体温后，将孩子抱走了。
During the warm and cold spells, someone's heart beat faster and he began to feel unwell. One child had a temperature rise with a cough, and the staff took the baby away after taking his temperature.
工作人员提供了毛毯，人们靠喝热水取暖。
Workers provided blankets and people drank hot water to keep themselves warm.
戴军记得有个高血压的老年人找不到药，家人着急地向工作人员求助，要买准确类型的降压药。
Dai remembers an elderly man with high blood pressure who couldn't find any medicine. His family asked the staff anxiously for an accurate type of antihypertensive medication.
新年的钟声在机场循环的广播声中敲响。
The bells of the New Year are rung on the air at the airport.
零点那一刻，有人打破了沉重的气氛，彼此问候“新年快乐”，一些人脸上露出了笑容，孩子们在一旁蹦蹦跳跳。
At 0 p.m. someone broke the heavy atmosphere, greeting each other Happy New Year. Some people smiled and the children were jumping around.
接近凌晨一点，老人和三十多名小孩需要休息了，大厅里的位置不够人们平躺，一些成年人找来箱子之类的东西垫在地上，把座位留给了老人和小孩。
Toward one o'clock in the morning, the old man and more than thirty children needed to rest. There was not enough room in the hall for people to lie on their backs. Some adults found boxes and things like that on the floor and left their seats for the old and children.
很多人没有睡意，他们和机场负责人在现场开了一个小会，得到的回复是，对武汉乘客的检查包括抽血、口腔黏膜，要等到早上9点。
Many people did not sleep, they and airport officials held a small meeting on the scene, was told that Wuhan passengers including blood extraction, oral mucosa, until 9 a.m.
戴军看着妻儿入睡，自己睡不着，在机场隔离区乱晃，后来干脆躲到卫生间抽烟。
Dai Jun watched his wife and children fall asleep, couldn't sleep on their own, wandered around the airport quarantine zone, and then simply hid in the bathroom to smoke.
一起抽烟的几个乘客商量，能不能找机会离开，他听了立马劝人家，“你要对自己负责，也要对家人负责对不对？你跑出去，政府明天肯定来抓你。
The passengers who were smoking together discussed whether they could find a chance to leave. He was told, "You are responsible for yourself and for your family, right? You run out and the government will come to you tomorrow.
”第二天是大年初一，机场提供了早饭，包子、鸡蛋、粥，但还是没有消息。
"The next day was New Year's Day. The airport offered breakfast, steamed buns, eggs and porridge, but there was no news.
直到9点半，他们在新闻上看到，TR188飞机上的所有人员已经到市委党校隔离入住。
By 9: 30, they saw on the news that all the people on the TR188 had been quarantined at the Party School.
“那个时间，其实我们还在机场。
"At that time, we were actually at the airport.
”曾先生说，也是这时他们才知道，飞机上有两个武汉乘客发烧了。
It was then that they learned that two Wuhan passengers were feverish on the plane, Mr. Zeng said.
“说句实话，到现在我们心里都挺懵圈的，我们反而是通过网络的渠道，去了解这个事情的信息和过程。
"To tell you the truth, we are ignorant of the circle of mind, we are through the network channels, to understand the information and process of this matter.
”曾先生说。
"said Mr. Zeng.
就在他们前往市委党校的路上，1月25日中午，针对网络上有关“武汉人被新加坡遣返”的谣言酷航发布声明澄清，“由于中国湖北省所有公共交通网络暂时停运”，酷航才取消了相关航班。
On their way to the Communist Party School, on January 25, cool flights were canceled due to "temporary suspension of all public transport networks in Hubei Province of China," according to a statement released on the Internet in response to rumor that Wuhan people had been repatriated from Singapore.
尹笑觉得酷航的声明有些不负责任，“保障他们改签，我们这些正常旅游回国的人就不用保障了吗？”她也为新加坡的声明感到担忧——如果是遣返，就说明在机场哪也没去；如果不是，他们的路径可能就会和部分人有重合。
Yin said Cool's announcement was irresponsible. "Do we have to guarantee that we normal tourists would not have to sign it again?" She was also worried about Singapore's statement that if returned, they would not be at the airport; if not, their route might overlap with some people.
刚毕业一年的新人律师阿含庆幸自己放弃了春节旅行计划。
Just graduated a year new lawyer A Ham is glad that he gave up the Spring Festival travel plan.
她原本订了1月24日23点15分从杭州飞往新加坡的航班，航班号为TR189，与TR188是同一架飞机。
She had booked a flight from Hangzhou to Singapore at 2315 hours on January 24 under flight number TR189, the same aircraft as TR188.
当天到机场后，凌晨左右，她看到整个机场的航班都处于停滞状态，觉得情形不对，就去搜了微博。
Arriving at the airport that day, around dawn, she saw the entire airport flight in a state of stagnation, feel wrong, went to search Weibo.
大概凌晨2点多，播报称可以登机了，“我觉得很惊讶，因为TR188是九点多着落的，看照片上穿着防护服的人员在检测每位乘客，那我们理解中300多位乘客没那么快下机。
At about 2 a.m., the announcer said it was ready to board the plane. "I was surprised because TR188 landed at nine o'clock and the people in protective clothing were checking every passenger, so we understand that more than 300 passengers didn't get off the plane that fast.
”阿含说，她推算了时间，认为消毒的过程很短，她不放心，最终和152位乘客一起放弃了这趟行程。
'Ms. Hahn said she calculated the time and said she wasn't comfortable with the disinfection, and ended up giving up the trip with 152 passengers.
乘坐大巴车去往隔离点。
Take the bus to the quarantine point.
受访者供图事故与故事曾先生对2003年的非典疫情还有印象。
The interviewee gave his impressions of the SARS epidemic in 2003.
那是他毕业后工作的第一年，杭州有很多被隔离的小区楼房、学生宿舍，家人拿着最大的容器去买醋，认为醋可以消毒，跑了许多药店买板蓝根和口罩，囤了粮食。
In his first year of work, Hangzhou had many isolated community buildings, dormitories for students, families carrying the largest containers to buy vinegar, think vinegar can be disinfected, went to many pharmacies to buy blue roots and masks, and hoarded food.
有过那段经历后，他觉得不必为这次的疫情感到恐慌。
Having had that experience, he felt no need to panic about the outbreak.
1月27日，曾先生起床后吃早饭时在群里看到一条信息，那是一条新闻链接，“杭州新增确证15例，萧山区3例，其中机场排查2例。
On January 27, Mr. Zeng got up for breakfast and saw a message in the group. It was a news link. "Fifteen new cases were confirmed in Hangzhou and three in Xiaoshan.
”患者男，45岁，为1月25日乘TR188次航班自新加坡到达萧山机场武汉乘客，入境排查时体温38.1℃，无咳嗽等其它临床表现；患者女，26岁，入境排查时自述有咽痛症状，体温36.8℃，无其它临床表现，现在杭州市定点医疗机构隔离治疗。
The patient, aged 45, arrived at Xiaoshan Airport on flight TR188 from Singapore on January 25 with a body temperature of 38.1 degrees Celsius and no other clinical manifestations, such as cough.
尽管此前已有了心理准备，得到准确的消息后，曾先生还是不免感到焦急，“外面的人看着像故事，里面人人是事故啊。
Despite his previous psychological preparation, Mr. Zeng was anxious when he got the accurate news. "People outside look like stories. Everyone inside is an accident."
”乘客微信群里有人开始怀疑，现在没有体温异常的人是否也存在感染风险。
People in the passenger microphone group began to wonder if people without abnormal body temperatures were at risk.
“不是每个人都（喉液）采样了吗？”“我没有。
"Isn't everyone taking samples?" "I didn't.
”“我们也没有。
"We haven't.
”这时，他们才知道，党校并不是对所有人都进行了喉液采样。
It was then that they learned that the party school had not taken samples of everyone's larynx.
对此，医护人员答复他们，采样根据每个房间的情况进行，48小时后才能出结果。
In response, the paramedics replied that the samples were taken on a room-by-room basis and the results could not be produced until 48 hours later.
他们从新闻里得知，1月26日晚，又有两架抵达杭州的国际航班上有15名武汉籍旅客，分别来自沙巴和泰国。
On the evening of January 26, 15 more Wuhan-based passengers arrived on international flights to Hangzhou from Sabah and Thailand, they said.
海关通报，如发现疑似病例1-2名，需隔离20名旅客（前三排后三排）；如三人及以上体温异常，全机旅客隔离。
The Customs informs that in case of a suspected case 1-2, 20 passengers should be quarantined (three rows behind the first three rows); if the temperature of three or more persons is abnormal, the whole aircraft should be isolated.
“求告知，那几个人（确诊）的座位号。
"Please tell me the seat numbers of those people.
”一名乘客在群里说。
"said a passenger in the group.
“抱歉，我们不掌握这个信息，我跟你们得到的信息一样多。
"Sorry, we don't have this information. I have as much information as you do.
”党校工作人员回复。
Party school staff replied.
群里的TR188乘客开始进行自我排查，甚至画出了一张机舱位置分布图。
TR188 passengers in the group began to self-screen, even drawing a map of the cabin position.
一名工作人员试图制止，“不要以讹传讹，积极配合党校和政府的工作。
"Don't cooperate actively with the Party school and the government on the basis of false information," one official said.
”曾先生觉得，此时他们最需要的是知道确诊病例的座位号，而不是从新闻上了解自己的处境，“我们想做的无非是（信息）畅通和及时。
Mr Tsang felt that what they needed most at the moment was to know the location of the confirmed cases, not their situation on the news. "All we wanted to do was [information] be clear and timely.
”就在得知两名武汉乘客确诊的这一天，从日本名古屋飞往上海的南方航空CZ380遭遇了与TR188类似的处境。
"On the day two Wuhan passengers were diagnosed, Southern Airlines CZ380, which flies from Nagoya, Japan, to Shanghai, was in a similar situation to TR188.
不过，上海乘客在登机前就发现了同行者中有湖北人。
However, Shanghai passengers found Hubei among the passengers before boarding the plane.
“我们还看到他们在那量体温，有人见过他们吃退烧药。
"We also saw them take their temperature there and someone saw them taking antipyretics.
没有确诊的情况下，只能拒绝登机！”一名上海乘客说。
Without a confirmed diagnosis, I had to refuse to board the plane, "said a Shanghai passenger.
据另一乘客描述，下午一点多，16名湖北乘客乘坐CZ380专机回国，但其他80余名乘客滞留在机场。
According to another passenger, 16 Hubei passengers returned home on board the special CZ380 at one o'clock in the afternoon, but more than 80 other passengers stayed at the airport.
1点半左右，领事馆人员赶到现场，为滞留乘客免费改签。
At about 1: 30, consular staff arrived at the scene to re-sign the stranded passengers free of charge.
据航班软件信息显示， CZ380将于1月27日下午16:08预计到达上海。
According to flight software information, CZ380 is expected to arrive in Shanghai on January 27 at 16: 08 p.m.
在TR188一些乘客的要求下，今天早晨，杭州市委党校给每个房间配发了抗病毒的药。
At the request of some TR188 passengers, this morning Hangzhou Municipal Party School distributed antiviral drugs to each room.
那是一种中药配方颗粒，三天的量，早晚各一次，冲泡服用。
It is a Chinese medicine formula granule, the quantity of three days, morning and night, each time, take.
下午1点，党校人员开始在走廊里调试送饭机器人。
At 1: 00 p. m., party school officials began debugging rice-delivery robots in the hallway.
“大家好 ，可爱的小花生来给大家送饭了，祝您用餐愉快。
"Hello, everyone, lovely peanuts to bring everyone a meal, I wish you a pleasant meal.
”工作人员在群里解释，“各位亲，明天实现全部机器人送餐。
"Staff explained in the group," Ladies and gentlemen, complete the robot meal tomorrow.
全国第一个！”（文中人物为化名，王一然对本文亦有贡献）版权声明：本文所有内容著作权归属于搜狐享有，未经搜狐书面许可，不得转载、摘编或以其他形式使用，另有声明除外。
The copyright in this article belongs to Sohu and shall not be reproduced, edited or used in any other form without Sohu's written permission, except as otherwise stated.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介殷盛琳正在跌跌撞撞地认识世界。
AT RATE & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
作者简介程静之认识远方的你。
Brief Introduction Cheng Jing knows you from afar.
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎疫情下的TR188航班全员隔离事件。
Full isolation of flight TR188 in the event of pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "肺炎疫情下的TR188航班全员隔离事件";。
var msg _ title = & quot; fully quarantined flight TR188 with pneumonia;;
var msg_desc = "“外面的人看着像故事，里面人人是事故啊。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
”";。
";;
title: '漫长的告别 | 家暴后，她用了两年时间被“准许离婚”',。
She spent two years with & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '大桥下的北京，一些无关紧要的活法',。
At the foot of the bridge at Beijing, some unimportant service & amp; apos; s.
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '等待章莹颖 | 女儿失踪的464个日夜',。
AT & T & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '木里的风，带走了凉山消防四中队三班',。
The wind at Rangshan & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
