疫情时期的爱情：隔着十米，他在地上放了一盒费列罗巧克力。
Epidemic Love: Ten meters across, he left a box of Ferraro chocolates on the ground.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：这是几对医护夫妻的故事。
Healthcare Couples This is the story of several medical couples.
他们有的结婚超过十年，有的还没来得及举办婚礼。
Some of them had been married for more than ten years, and some had not had time to get married.
他们在同一栋楼里工作，却很少见面，或者因为穿着防护服，差点没认出彼此。
They worked in the same building, but rarely met, or almost didn't recognize each other because they were wearing protective clothing.
情人节这天，他准备了一盒费列罗巧克力，但为了避免传染的风险，隔着十米远放在地上。
On Valentine's Day, he prepared a box of Ferraro chocolates, but put them on the ground ten meters away to avoid the risk of infection.
这一天不再需要鲜花，电影，亲吻和拥抱。
No flowers, movies, kisses or hugs are needed for this day.
这就是爱在疫情下展现的模样。
That is what love looks like in an epidemic.
文 |程静之殷盛琳编辑 |王珊事实上，人们在情人节这天说过很多谎言。
Ren Shenglin, editor and secretary of Cheng Sheng-lin. In fact, many people have told lies about Valentine's Day.
电影的票根、餐厅的灯光、酒吧的烟味，很快都会被忘记。
The stubs of movies, the lights of restaurants, the smell of bars will soon be forgotten.
而现在，席卷全国的疫情让“永远”的承诺看起来可信了那么一些。
Now, the epidemic sweeping across the country makes the promise of "forever" seem credible.
2020年情人节注定成为无数爱人们一生中最难忘的回忆之一。
Valentine's Day 2020 is destined to be one of the most unforgettable memories of a persons life.
爱情、爱人、相守，每一个词都有了更深的意味。
Love, love, each other, every word has a deeper meaning.
一对医生夫妻在病房前偶遇，穿着防护服，差点没认出彼此；一对夫妻在同一栋楼里工作，却很少见面，情人节的电话里，只是挂念彼此不被感染；一对不久前领完结婚证的恋人，已经很久没见，丈夫准备了一盒费列罗巧克力，为避免传染的风险，他只能隔着十米远放在地上，等他走了妻子再去拿。
A couple of doctors met in front of the ward in protective clothing and barely recognized each other. A couple who worked in the same building but rarely met each other on Valentine's Day phones were worried about each other.
这是爱情在疫情下展现的模样。
This is what love looks like in an epidemic situation.
它不限于一张法律上的证明，也不限于任何节日。
It is not limited to a statement of law or to any holiday.
它没有边角，也无法丈量。
It has no corners, and it cannot be measured.
《霍乱时期的爱情》里，德圣阿莫尔在60岁时告别爱人说，请以一支玫瑰纪念我。
In Love in the Cholera, Saint-Amor says goodbye to his sweetheart at age 60 and says, "Please remember me with a rose."
如今，天知道爱人们多么想用此名句，告别蔓延的疫情。
Now, God knows how much love people want to use this phrase, farewell to the spread of the epidemic.
以下是四位医护人员的口述：一盒费列罗巧克力郭春飞29岁 湖北荆州市第一人民医院 耳鼻喉科医生 结婚两个月我是荆州市第一人民医院的一名耳鼻喉科医生，我爱人谢倩是中医院心病科的一名护士。
I am an otorhinolaryngologist at Jingzhou First People's Hospital. I am an otorhinolaryngologist at Jingzhou First People's Hospital. My wife Xie Qian is a nurse in the CHINESE CHINESE department.
算起来我们是闪婚，2019年3月份的时候，我们才刚刚认识，她有过敏性鼻炎，正好到我们医院看病，我接的诊。
In March 2019, when we just met, she had allergic rhinitis, just came to our hospital to see a doctor, I received the consultation.
然后就一起聊天，互有好感，一来二去就约出来见了面。
Then we chatted together, had a good opinion of each other, come and see each other.
我记得是先去看了场电影，一个什么港片，然后吃了饭，很平常的方式。
I remember going to see a movie, a port movie, and then having dinner, in a normal way.
谈了8个多月恋爱，去年12月5号，我们领了结婚证，本来打算今年正月初六在老家举办婚礼。
Having been in love for more than eight months, we got our marriage certificate on December 5th last year and had planned to hold the wedding in our hometown on early January 6 this year.
过年嘛，亲戚有在外面打工的也会回家，比较方便，我们两个属于医护人员，平时根本请不下来假。
Chinese New Year, relatives have to work outside will also go home, more convenient, we belong to the medical staff, usually do not ask down the holiday.
别人放假的时候，我们要值班，正月初六那会儿正好休年假。
We have to be on duty when everyone else has a holiday. We are on annual leave at the beginning of January.
结果疫情出来，我们婚礼要延迟了。
As a result, our wedding was delayed.
腊月二十九，武汉“封城”的消息发出来，我们医院当天就通知大家随时待命，疫情已经比较严重了。
On the 29th of December, when the news of "sealing the city" came from Wuhan, our hospital announced that we would be on standby at any time that day.
我那天值夜班，大年三十早上才下夜班回家。
I was on night shift and didn't get home until about the morning of New Year.
我老丈人开车接我和老婆回家吃年夜饭，结果晚上正吃着饭，我老婆的护士长就打来了电话，说医院马上要把她们的住院大楼腾出来了，建成隔离病房，接收新型冠状病毒肺炎的患者，需要所有的护士都去参与这个工作。
My father-in-law took my wife and I home for New Year's Eve dinner, and the head nurse phoned to say that the hospital was about to vacate their hospital building and set up an isolation ward for patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
其实，如果想请假还是有空间的，毕竟要结婚嘛，人之常情。
In fact, if you want to ask for leave or space, after all to get married, normal human conditions.
但我们俩接到这个消息的时候，根本没怎么商量，两个人都明白，婚礼没法办了，肯定要延期，想都不用再想。
But when we received the news, there was little consultation, and both of us understood that the wedding could not take place, that it would be postponed, and that we could think of nothing more.
说实话，每个人都不想让自己的家属去前线，我们知道这个病毒目前没有特效药，死亡案例里面也有比较年轻的，风险并不小，会恐惧。
To be honest, no one wants their families to go to the front. We know that there are no specific drugs for the virus, and there are younger people in the death cases.
但我们是医护人员，虽然有风险，还是要冒，这是我们份内的事情。
But we're paramedics, and it's our job to take risks and take risks.
我相信绝大多数的医护人员都是这样，到现在为止，我没有听到过我们医院或者她们医院有哪个人说，因为我害怕感染，所以不去了。
I'm sure that's the case with most health care workers. So far, I haven't heard anyone from our hospital or their hospital say that I didn't go because I was afraid of infection.
我老婆做了7年护士，是她们医院住院大楼第一批护士，一些新来的小护士还不熟，也没有经验，（老婆）她们肯定是要冲在前面的。
My wife worked as a nurse for seven years. She was the first nurse in the hospital building. Some of the new nurses were new and inexperienced.
跟她比，我反而是二线。
Compared to her, I'm a second-line.
我们荆州的感染情况比较严重，光我们院就至少有500例患者，医生的资源很紧张，像我这样耳鼻喉科的医生也要接受培训，在家里随时待命。
There are at least 500 patients in our hospital alone. The doctors are under a tight resource. Doctors like me have to be trained and on call at home.
如果前方需要，我们得立刻去补上。
If we need it in front of us, we need to fix it now.
我老婆初一就去了医院，收拾隔离病房，初四就开始培训了，之后有病人陆续住进来。
My wife went to the hospital the first day of junior high school, tidied up the isolation ward, began training on the fourth day of junior high school.
正月初六那天，她被通知要隔离，不能回家了。
On the sixth day of the first month, she was told that she could not go home.
那天本来该是我们结婚的日子，天气特别好，风和日丽的，我老婆也很遗憾，那天给我发微信说，要是没有疫情该多好，那天在户外办婚礼特别合适。
It was supposed to be our wedding day. The weather was very nice and the wind was beautiful and my wife was sorry to send me a message that if it hadn't been for the outbreak, it would have been especially appropriate to have a wedding out there.
我老婆调侃说，初六到今天，我们一直在网恋。
My wife joked that from the sixth day of junior high to today, we have been in online love.
她在前线特别忙，每天值班6小时，而且不固定，来回倒班。
She was particularly busy on the front lines, working six hours a day, with irregular shifts.
我们每天白天会打会儿视频，我也不敢多打，她需要休息。
We play video every day during the day, and I'm afraid to play more. She needs some rest.
看着视频里，她那个脸勒得呀，一道道的，护目镜和口罩戴久了会有印子。
Looking at the video, her face is strangled, line by line, goggles and masks wear a long time will have prints.
她说医院的物资紧张，防护服出了隔离区就要浪费了，一次性的，她们就不喝水不上厕所，吃饭也不敢吃很多。
She said the hospital materials are tight, protective clothing out of the separation zone will be wasted, disposable, they do not drink water to go to the toilet, eat too much.
我真的挺心疼的，我这个人嘴笨，不会讲肉麻的话，就写了封信给她，让她能感受到我的担心。
I really quite distressed, I this person stupid, cannot speak the meat numb words, wrote a letter to her, let her feel my fear.
她们不许家属送东西，我想做饭给她送也没办法。
They don't allow their families to deliver food, and I can't help it if I want to.
知道她今天（2月14日）要体检，可以休息一下，能见上面，我前天就去超市买了一盒费列罗巧克力。
I know she needs a checkup today (Feb. 14). I can take a break. I went to the supermarket the day before yesterday to buy a box of Ferraro chocolates.
今天我们约在我去医院那个拐角见面，结果她不让我靠近，隔着十米就喊我把东西放下，走了她再拿。
Today, we met at the corner where I was going to the hospital and she wouldn't let me come near. She called me to put things down ten meters away and she took them again.
我说没那么夸张吧，她说怕感染我，不能靠近。
I said it wasn't that big. She said she was afraid to infect me. Not close.
她也送了我情人节礼物，特别实在，微信红包。
She also gave me valentine's day gifts, special, micro-letter red envelopes.
我老婆很细心，在跟她在一起之前，我经常值夜班，晚上患者很多，点了外卖也来不及吃，很多时候就过去了，饿肚子就忍着嘛。
My wife is very careful, before with her, I often work night shift, evening patient many, ordered take-out also too late to eat, a lot of time passed, hungry stomachs endure it.
现在她会给我带很多小零食，让我记着带上，生活里面就是这些普通的东西。
Now she will bring me a lot of snacks, let me remember to take with me, life is these ordinary things.
之前她选的婚纱特别好看，还在我老丈人家里，没来得及穿上。
Before she chose the wedding dress particularly good-looking, still in my father-in-law's home, did not have time to put on.
为了这条婚纱，我们逛了好几次街。
We visited the streets several times for the wedding dress.
后来她偷偷还和闺蜜又去看了几次，没有告诉我，我偷看她微博才发现的。
Later, she secretly also and her daughter to see a few times, did not tell me, I peeked at her Weibo only to discover.
等疫情过去，最快五一假期吧，我想好好办场婚礼，把亲戚朋友都请来。
When the epidemic is over, as soon as the May Day holiday, I would like to have a wedding, friends and relatives invited.
郭春飞、谢倩婚纱照。
Guo Chunfei, Xie Qian wedding photo.
谢倩30岁 荆州市中医院心病科护士 郭春飞太太他没说错，初六那天天气确实很好，我们原本的婚礼安排是传统的接亲形式，应该会很热闹。
Xie Qian 30-year-old Jingzhou CHINESE CHUNG CHUNG CHUNG Feifei, nurse of CHINESE CHENG Hospital. He is not mistaken.
但那天，我是在隔离病房里度过的。
But that day, I spent it in the isolation ward.
我们医院大年三十晚上紧急通知的腾空病房筹备隔离病区，记得那天大家才刚刚端起团年饭，我就接到了通知电话。
Our hospital emergency room on the eve of the 30-night emergency to prepare the isolation ward, remember that only that day we had a reunion dinner, I received a call.
然后我们就着急赶回去，到了医院后，大家几个小时内就要腾空整栋大楼。
Then we hurried back to the hospital, where everyone had to vacate the whole building in a few hours.
那天还下雨，大家没来得及吃团年饭，还都饿着肚子，过了一个不一样的跨年。
It also rained that day, we did not have time to eat reunion dinner, are hungry, a different cross-year.
大家真的很辛苦，初五那天，我们要往自己的隔离病区搬物资，大多是消毒液之类的东西。
Everyone really hard, on the fifth day of the day, we have to move to their own quarantine area, mostly disinfectant and other things.
因为电梯留给病人使用了，我们物资要保证清洁，几个女生就徒手爬楼梯把所有物资都搬到了四楼病房区。
As the elevator was left for patients to use and our supplies had to be kept clean, several girls climbed the stairs unarmed and moved everything to the fourth floor ward.
到了下午两点多，护士长鼓励我们说马上好了，可以吃饭上厕所了，结果刚刚说完话她就接到电话，病人太多，要紧急开科。
At two o'clock in the afternoon, the head nurse encouraged us to say that we were ready to have dinner and go to the toilet. As soon as she had finished speaking, she got a phone call.
我们（目前）有八个病区，一个病区13个病房，因为要单间隔离，所以只能单间收治。
We have eight wards and 13 wards in one ward, so we have to stay in separate rooms.
我们上班前先去专门的地方换手术衣和隔离衣，然后穿消毒好的棉袄进到隔离区。
Before we went to work, we went to a special place to change the operation clothes and the paraphernalia. Then we put on the sterilized cotton-padded jacket and went into the quarantine area.
出来的时候有专人测体温，喷消毒液全身消毒。
When out of the body a special person temperature, spray disinfectant general disinfection.
每天回到隔离的宾馆后，我会用酒精棉签清洗耳鼻，然后洗澡洗头，洗半个小时以上。
Every day after returning to the isolated hotel, I clean my ears and nose with an alcohol cotton swab, then wash my hair and wash it for more than half an hour.
隔离的这十几天里，我和郭狗子每天视频说的最多的话就是，希望疫情早点结束，他反复嘱咐我做好防护。
Over the past 10 days of isolation, Guo and I said the most video every day is, hope that the epidemic ended soon, he repeatedly told me to take precautions.
我也会给他布置作业，让他在家学习好防护服的穿脱，学习各类感染知识，学习医院发的各种资料，并且每天都要做笔记，我要检查。
I would also give him homework, let him learn how to wear protective clothing at home, learn all kinds of infection knowledge, learn various materials from the hospital, and take notes every day, I want to check.
这样上了一线，他就能保护好自己，也能服务好患者。
In this way, he will be able to protect themselves, but also to serve good patients.
决定婚礼延期后，我爸妈帮我们给亲戚们挨个打电话，取消仪式。
After deciding to postpone the wedding, my parents called our relatives one by one to cancel the ceremony.
这场婚礼我们准备了很久，连喜帖都发了，餐桌都订好了，通通需要取消。
This wedding we have been preparing for a long time, even the wedding post, the table has been booked, all need to cancel.
我爸那天还发了一个朋友圈支持我，说自己虽然担心、不舍，但觉得临床更需要我们。
My father that day also sent a circle of friends to support me, said that although he worried, reluctant, but feel more need of us clinically.
婚礼延期，但幸福不会延期。
Marriage is postponed, but happiness is not postponed.
这场疫情打乱了我们很多计划，我们本来初六办婚礼，然后马上开始装修房子，准备要宝宝。
The outbreak disrupted many of our plans. We were planning to have a wedding on the sixth day of school, then we immediately began to decorate the house and prepare for the baby.
但说到底，这些计划都是可以延缓的，我一想到那些被疫情耽误着不能看病、不能正常工作的人，就希望能和可爱的同事们一起加油，赶紧打赢这场仗。
But after all, these programs can be delayed, and I hope to win the war with my lovely colleagues when I think of the people who have been delayed by the epidemic and are unable to work properly.
等疫情结束，我最想做的事就是两个人在一起。
When the epidemic is over, the most I want to do is to be with two people.
一起吃饭、一起睡觉。
Eat and sleep together.
就是很普通的事情，但是要在一起一辈子。
It's just a normal thing, but it's a lifetime together.
情人节他偷偷在物资这么匮乏的时期给我准备了巧克力，但因为我进了隔离区，接触了病人，不能和他近距离接触，隔着几米就让他把巧克力丢下，默默看了一下对方就分开了。
On Valentine's Day he secretly prepared chocolates for me at a time of such scarcity, but because I was in the quarantine zone, I was in contact with patients, I couldn't get in close contact with him, he dropped the chocolate a few meters away, silently looked at each other and parted.
我的婚纱是简单的款式，绸面的，很漂亮。
My wedding dress is a simple style, silk, very beautiful.
再办婚礼要增加什么仪式我没想清楚，但我想一定会很高兴，因为那证明我们都是平平安安的。
I don't know what ceremony to add to the wedding, but I think it will be a pleasure because it proves that we are all safe.
谢倩与郭春飞“ 头晕好了一点没？”王洁39岁 武汉肺科医院护士长 结婚14年其实，我压根都忘记是什么节，领物资的时候，看到是2月14号，才知道是情人节。
Xie Qian and Guo Chunfei "dizziness is a little better?" Wang Jie 39-year-old Wuhan Lung Hospital matron marriage 14 years in fact, I even forget what festival, when the goods, see February 14, only to know it is Valentine's Day.
我们（在一起）快20年了。
We've been together for nearly 20 years.
以前情人节，我们会互相送点礼物，偶尔会出去吃个饭，但没有那种特别记忆犹新的，因为每年大家都很忙，只能简单地庆祝一下。
On Valentine's Day we used to give presents to each other and occasionally go out for a meal, but there was no special memory because everyone was so busy every year that we had to simply celebrate.
今天早上9点，很难得，他竟然给我打了个电话。
He called me this morning at 9 o'clock, which is very rare.
从疫情开始到现在，这是一件让我非常惊讶的事情，因为他早上很忙，要查房，打得很少。
From the beginning of the outbreak to the present, this is a very surprising thing, because he is very busy in the morning, to check the room, play very little.
我以为他记得情人节，结果只是打了个电话问，头晕好了一点没，要不要去做检查？我说今天好一些了，昨天可能是颈椎不舒服……你知道今天是情人节吗？他说，今天情人节啊，情人节快乐。
I thought he remembered Valentine's Day, only to call to ask, dizziness a little better, do you want to go for a checkup? I said today better, yesterday may be cervical spine uncomfortable... you know today is Valentine's Day? He said, Happy Valentine's Day.
前天，我上楼去领防护物资，他下去接一个会诊的专家，我们在电梯里碰了一面。
The day before yesterday, I went upstairs to get protective gear. He went down to pick up a consultant. We met in the elevator.
疫情扩大以来，为数不多的一次。
There has been only one outbreak since the outbreak spread.
压力大的时候，我们之间根本没有时间互相排解，从早到晚地忙。
In stressful times, we simply don't have time to work with each other, from morning to night.
谁闲下来，就打个电话报一下平安，仅此而已。
If anyone is free, just call and tell them it's okay. That's all.
明明是在同一个楼里，但是好像有就两个跨度。
It was clearly in the same building, but there seemed to be only two spans.
明明很近，实际上很远。
It's very near, actually it's far.
他是97年入行的，（现在）是重症ICU那边的一个主治医生，我是2001年，（现在）是护士长。
He entered the profession in '97 and is (now) a attending physician on ICU's side. I was a (now) head nurse in 2001.
他跟我这边刚好是两个极端，一边是发现，一边是进一步救治。
He and I are just two extremes, one is discovery, the other is further treatment.
这段时间，医务人员全部要求到一个定点的酒店。
During this time, the medical staff all requested to go to a designated hotel.
我这边护士长的话，早上7点，到晚上7点才能回去，真的是一分钟都没停过。
My head nurse said, 7: 00 in the morning and 7: 00 in the evening to go back, really a minute did not stop.
接诊的时候，很多病人都很恐慌，有的打针晚了一分钟就破口大骂，有的为了争床就说自己病情很重，有的为了入住就往地上一倒。
During the consultation, many patients were panicked, some shot a minute late and scolded, some said they were seriously ill in order to get into bed, and some fell to the ground in order to check in.
整个春节期间，我这边每天来就诊的大概200左右，留观（留院观察）人数多的时候快到250，有时候十几个人同时给你发出指令。
During the Spring Festival, I came here about 200 times a day to see the visitors, stay in the hospital observation when the number of people almost 250, sometimes a dozen people at the same time give you instructions.
很多病人不停地要来，但我们没办法提供床位，特别是有些家庭（感染），真的很无奈，不知道怎样提供一个好的治疗，提供更有效的床位。
A lot of patients keep coming, but we can not provide beds, especially some families (infections), really helpless, do not know how to provide a good treatment, provide more effective beds.
印象深的有一个五六十岁的老婆婆，情况特别不好，血氧饱和度只有八十几，喘得也特别厉害。
Impressed with a woman in her fifties and sixties, the situation is particularly bad, blood oxygen saturation is only about 80, pant is particularly fierce.
当时床位满了，大家都在等，我们也无能为力。
The bed was full, everyone was waiting, and there was nothing we could do.
老太太特别有同理心，就跟我说了一声，是不是要留观。
The old lady has empathy especially, said to me, whether want to take a look.
我说是，等床出来了，就把你收进去。
I said yes. I'll take you in when the bed comes out.
后来，婆婆就坐在那里，等了好几个小时，再没有说什么。
"Then the mother-in-law sat there and waited for hours, saying nothing more.
我说，真是难为您，等了这么长时间。
I say it's hard for you to wait so long.
她说，姑娘你们也不容易，看到你们脚不停手不停的。
'Girls, 'she said,' it's not easy for you to see that your feet don't stop.
后来，婆婆也蛮快就收进病房了。
Later, my mother-in-law was admitted to the ward quickly.
慢慢地，病在变，人也在变。
Slowly, the disease changes, and so do the people.
方舱医院开始启用之后，我们的病人就陆陆续续降下来了，没有先前那么焦虑。
As the cabin hospital opened, our patients continued to trickle down, less anxious than before.
这两天，门诊这边的病人稍微下降一点，但他那边可能还是比较忙，因为重症病情往后发展，肯定是越来越重。
Over the past two days, the patient on this side of the clinic has fallen a little bit, but he may still be busy there, as the severity of his illness is bound to get heavier and heavier.
这段期间，我孩子都是跟老人一起。
During this time, my children were with old people.
昨天，奶奶突然给我发了个微信说，孩子上了一个心理课，老师要求做亲子活动，有一个环节是要家长画一幅画，然后孩子画一幅画。
Yesterday, Grandma suddenly sent me a message saying that the child took a psychology class, the teacher asked for parent-child activities, there is a link is parents draw a picture, and then the child draws a picture.
他爷爷画了一个人，没画耳朵，老师就说，这幅画体现了家长没有去倾听孩子的心声。
His grandfather painted a man, did not draw ears, the teacher said that the picture reflects the parents did not listen to their children.
听了这句话，我儿子哭了40多分钟，说爸爸妈妈以前很忙，现在还是很忙，没人陪伴。
After listening to this, my son cried for more than 40 minutes, saying that my father and mother used to be very busy, but now they are still very busy.
双医务人员的话，家庭生活就不算是太正常，两个人相处的时间不很多，给孩子的陪伴也是欠缺的。
Double medical personnel, family life is not too normal, two people do not spend much time together, to the children's company is also lacking.
但这个职业也带来一些成就感，像我儿子班上老师都在群里发，说向某某的爸爸妈妈致敬，我相信孩子也会以我们的职业为荣。
But the profession also brings some sense of accomplishment, like my son's class teacher in the group, said to pay tribute to the parents, I believe the children will also be proud of our profession.
在我们家，生活中的大事他说了算，小事我管，但我们家也没有什么大事，基本上我说什么，他去执行就完了。
In our family, he is the master of the big things in life, I care about the small things, but there is no big deal in our family, basically what I say, he goes to execute it.
他人心很细，孩子生病了，有时候比我更紧张。
His heart is very thin, the child is sick, sometimes more nervous than me.
我们很少一起旅行，除了年轻时候出去拍了照片，就很少一起合影。
We seldom travel together. We seldom take pictures together except when we were young.
等整个事情结束了，我们应该穿着防护装，一起纪念一下。
When the whole thing is over, we should wear protective gear and commemorate it together.
望他能保证保重身体，坚决不能倒下！王洁与丈夫的自拍非典时，我们还是男女朋友徐小奇41岁 浙江省绍兴市人民医院小儿内科副护士长 结婚15年我从1月30号开始就在隔离病房上班。
Wang Jie and her husband's autoclap SARS, we are still men and women friends Xu Xiaoqi 41-year-old Zhejiang Shaoxing City People's Hospital Pediatric Nurse 15 years I have been working in the isolation ward since January 30.
老公是放射科的副主任，也在隔离病房，负责影像学检查，也是24小时轮班。
Husband is the deputy director of radiology, also in the isolation ward, responsible for imaging examination, is also a 24-hour shift.
年初一那天，绍兴有了第一例确诊，他一直加班到晚上8点多，2月1日开始，他就专做发热门诊疑似病人拍片这一块。
On the first day of the new year, Shaoxing had his first case diagnosed. He worked overtime until more than 8 pm.
总的来说，绍兴情况还可以，到今天为止42例。
On the whole, Shaoxing situation is OK, so far 42 cases.
绍兴市人民医院是定点医院，收治了30余例，相对危重一点的都收在我们这儿，病房最多的时候有23个病人，有一部分也上了呼吸机。
Shaoxing People's Hospital, a designated hospital, admitted more than 30 cases, the relative critical point are collected here, the largest number of patients, 23 patients, some of them also on the ventilator.
当然，大家的忙碌还是很有成果的。
Of course, we are very busy or very fruitful.
到目前为止，绍兴有个三四天没有新发病例，我们也有15例已经出院了，治愈率还挺高的。
So far, there have been no new cases in Shaoxing for three or four days, and 15 of us have been discharged from the hospital.
进入疫情以来，院里防护做得挺到位的，但他是这边最先接触到病例的医生，说不担心是假的，但2003年的时候，他接触过SARS，比较有经验，我也相信他能够做好。
The hospital has been well guarded since the outbreak, but he was the first doctor to come into contact with the case and said he was not afraid it was false, but in 2003 he was more experienced with SARS and I believe he was able to do it well.
我们俩也相互提醒对方，我给他发消息：“别得瑟，做好防护，喝水买矿泉水瓶喝，自己的茶杯别带过去了。
The two of us reminded each other, and I sent him a message: "Don't be afraid, don't drink from the fountain, don't take your cup with you.
”为了防止交叉感染，我们的宿舍在两个不同的地方，就没有碰到过。
To prevent cross-infection, our dorm rooms were in two different places and did not come across one another.
有一天，我上傍晚4点到凌晨的夜班，下午5点多，去病房给病人送药，我老公刚好也到病房来，两个人就在走廊里见到了。
One day, when I was on night shift from 4pm to 5pm, I went to the hospital room to deliver medicine to the patients.
隔着厚厚的衣服，其实我也不能肯定他是我老公，但是他个子挺高的，就问他是不是陈炳，他也怀疑地看着我，这是小奇吗？我们98年就认识了，是一起进医院的。
Through thick clothes, I am not sure that he is my husband, but he is very tall, he asked him if Chen Ping, he also looked at me suspiciously, this is a strange? We have known each other since 1998, is the hospital together.
平时，我们两个都不善表达，出门手牵手这样是没有的。
Usually, we are both not good expression, out hand in hand this is not.
我也蛮独立，出去外面进修，他也放心。
I was quite independent, too, and he was at ease when he went out to study.
但那天，刚接触到隔离的病人，医学上出现了一种未知的东西，心里还是蛮有压力的。
But that day, just contact with isolated patients, there is an unknown thing in medicine, the heart is quite stressful.
我又好几天没看到他了，所以有一种惊喜的感觉，一兴奋，情不自禁地拥抱了一下。
I hadn't seen him for days, so there was a feeling of surprise and excitement and I couldn't help hugging him.
非典时候，我们还是男女朋友。
In SARS, we were still male and female friends.
我俩经常一起下班，我比较晚，他很腼腆，从来不会到我们科室来，老在医院门口的一个自助银行取款机门口等，老是被整个医院的人调侃。
We often work together, I am late, he is very shy, never come to our office, always in front of a self-service bank ATM outside the hospital, etc., is always ridiculed by the whole hospital.
现在，自助银行取款机都拆掉了，但我还是记得。
Now the self-service ATMs have been taken down, but I still remember.
平时生活，我们还是有点仪式感。
In ordinary life, we still have a sense of ceremony.
情人节，他会送我一些小礼物，比如口红、一束花。
On Valentine's Day, he will give me some small gifts, such as lipstick and a bunch of flowers.
我也会准备一些小礼物，剃须刀、CK内裤，有点小奢侈，他平时舍不得买。
I will also prepare some small gifts, razor, CK underwear, a little luxury, he is reluctant to buy.
今年情人节不能像以往一样，等（疫情）好了，我们再补过。
Valentine's Day this year will not be the same as it used to be. When it's all right, let's fix it.
昨天，医院又来统计，浙江省可能还要支援（湖北），我跟他商量了，如果有需要的话，我还是会想去，他也表示支持。
Yesterday, the hospital statistics, Zhejiang Province may have to support (Hubei), I discussed with him, if need be, I would like to go, he also expressed support.
医生和护士之间，他比较容易理解我的想法，我也能够理解他的想法，怎么说呢？志同道合。
It was easier for him to understand what I thought between the doctor and the nurse, and I was able to understand what he thought.
最近，我们俩又碰到过一两次，但还不能坐下来一起吃饭。
We had met once or twice recently, but we couldn't sit down and eat together.
想起我们以前，我夜班，6点上班，他是白班，5点下班，我们两个人就会去食堂，一起吃个晚饭。
Reminds us before, I night shift, 6 o'clock work, he is day shift, 5 o'clock off work, we two will go to the canteen, have dinner together.
现在，我想对他说，谢谢他，有他这样一起真好。
Now, I'd like to say thank you to him. It's nice to have him like this.
徐小奇与丈夫合影。
Xu Xiaoqi took a picture with her husband.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情时期的爱情：隔着十米，他在地上放了一盒费列罗巧克力。
Epidemic Love: Ten meters across, he left a box of Ferraro chocolates on the ground.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情时期的爱情：隔着十米，他在地上放了一盒费列罗巧克力";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; love at the time of the epidemic: Ten metres away, he set a box of Ferraro & quot; on the ground.
var msg_desc = "它没有边角，也无法丈量。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it has no corner and cannot be measured.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
