康复后的那顿早餐，我在武汉街头吃了热干面和豆皮。
After the recovery of that breakfast, I ate hot dry noodles and soybean hides on the streets of Wuhan.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：寒假上日语课期间，21岁的小孙突然感到浑身酸痛，出现症状8天后，他被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎。
A Japanese Language Course During Winter Holiday, Sun, 21, suddenly felt sore all over and was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia eight days after he developed symptoms.
整个春节，他往返于武汉的家和医院之间，看见了疑似感染的医生，无法确诊的患者，濒临死亡的病人。
Throughout the Spring Festival, he shuttled between his home and hospital in Wuhan and saw doctors with suspected infections, patients who could not be diagnosed, and patients who were dying.
因为病情较轻，他没有住院，在家隔离，遵从医嘱吃药，通过泡澡、吃火锅、刷剧的方式放松。
Due to his mild condition, he was not hospitalized, isolated at home, took medicine as ordered by his doctor, and relaxed by soaking in the bath, eating hot pot and brushing opera.
患病20天后，他的试剂盒检测两次为阴性。
After 20 days of illness, his kit was tested negative twice.
目前，他被隔离在宾馆观察，等待第三次试剂盒检测结果。
At present, he is quarantined at the hotel, awaiting the results of the third dose-box test.
文 | 程静之编辑 | 王珊挂号、复查、确诊，整个春节，21岁的小孙往返于武汉的家和医院之间，直到大年初五这天，他被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
Registered, reviewed and diagnosed by Cheng Shan. Throughout the Spring Festival, his 21-year-old grandson commuted between his home and hospital in Wuhan until late Friday, when he was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
这是一个喜爱日本动漫的男孩。
This is a boy who loves Japanese anime.
在最痛苦的几天里，他浑身酸痛、呕吐、腹泻、咳到肚子疼，只能通过泡澡、吃火锅、刷剧这样的方式来放松。
During the most painful days of his life, he suffered from aches and pains, vomiting, diarrhea, coughing up stomach pains, which he could only relax by soaking in the bath, eating a hot pot and brushing a play.
“讲真，我就去了鬼门关一日游，没往里走就回来了。
"To tell the truth, I went on a ghost tour and came back without going in.
”截止到2月11日统计，全国新型冠状病毒肺炎的确诊患者已达42638人，治愈3996人，死亡1016人。
By February 11, 2006, the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia nationwide had reached 42,638, cured 3,996 and killed 1,016.
小孙属于轻症偏中度，治疗过程中，又经历了一连串的幸运。
Sun is a mild to moderate disease, treatment process, and experienced a series of lucky.
如今，经过两次试剂盒检测，他的结果都显示阴性。
Now, after two kit tests, his results are negative.
回望生病的20天，他甚至不知道自己是如何感染上病毒的，或许是在封闭的教室里，又或许是在距离华南海鲜市场只有5站的地铁上。
Looking back on his 20 days of illness, he doesn't even know how he got the virus, either in a closed classroom or on the subway, just five stops from the South China seafood market.
他在微博中写下自己与病毒抗争的全程，希望能给其他病患一些勉励。
In Weibo, he wrote about his entire fight against the virus, hoping to inspire other patients.
以下根据小孙的口述整理：“只在‘非典’的纪录片里看过这些东西”_1月17日，我开始浑身酸痛，和普通感冒有一点微妙的差别，但我没有注意，以为吃泰诺就可以应付。
"I only read them in a SARS documentary." _ January 17, I began to feel a slight twinge of pain, a subtle difference from the common cold, but I didn't notice that I could cope with it.
奇怪的是，泰诺这一次并没有起到太大的效果。
Curiously, Tyler did not do much good this time.
我在武汉上大学，因为喜欢动漫，以后想入声优行业，寒假给自己报了一个日语班。
I went to Wuhan University, because I like animation, later want to enter the sound industry, winter vacation for themselves reported a Japanese class.
坐在左边的一个同学一直戴着N95口罩，我还觉得太夸张了。
One of my classmates on the left was wearing a N95 mask all the time. I thought it was an exaggeration.
后来才知道，班里有几个同学在发烧，他们吃药，可能把病毒抑制下去了，但我放松了警惕，耽误了5天，错过了最佳治疗期。
Later, I learned that several students in the class had a fever. They took the medicine and the virus might have been suppressed. But I let my guard down and delayed for five days, missing the optimal treatment period.
1月20日，这一天是周一，我的食欲开始减退。
On January 20th, which was Monday, my appetite began to wane.
楼下有一家很正宗的广式烧腊，平常可以吃个精光，那天居然有剩饭，爬楼变得困难，睡觉的频率也变高。
There was an authentic Cantonese roast below, which was usually eaten up, but there was leftovers that day, and it became difficult to climb buildings and sleep more often.
1月21日周二，我去药店看了一下，口罩卖完了，我从没见过这样的情况，觉得有点不对劲，但还是戴着口罩去上日语课了。
January 21 Tuesday, I went to the pharmacy to see that the mask was sold out. I had never seen anything like it, but I still wore a mask to a Japanese class.
到了中午，我实在不舒服，跟我爹打电话，他是医药行业的，很敏锐，“赶快回来！”语气很凶，很急。
At noon, I really uncomfortable, with my father, he is a pharmaceutical industry, very sharp, "hurry back!" tone is very fierce, very urgent.
“不就是个感冒吗？”当时我有点意外，也很不舍，毕竟那个课不便宜。
"Is it a cold?" I was a bit surprised, but also reluctant to give up, after all that class is not cheap.
这之前的三个月，我的身体一直处于亚健康状态。
For the first three months, my body had been in a subnormal state.
因为我睡觉打鼾，影响室友，家又离得远，回去有三个小时的行程，我就搬到校外，住进一个出租房。
As I slept and snore, and my roommate was far away from home, I moved out of school and into a rental room for three hours.
房间小于10平米，一张床、一个桌子、一个厕所，空气不太流通，感冒的频率比平常要高很多，可能削弱了我的抵抗力。
The room is less than 10 square meters, a bed, a table, a toilet, the air is not very good and the frequency of colds is much higher than usual, which may have weakened my resistance.
回到家那天晚上，我和哥哥、奶奶边看电视，边吃了火锅，电视在滚动播放（新型冠状病毒肺炎）这些东西。
Back home that night, my brother and grandmother and I watched TV, while eating hotpot, TV rolling broadcast (the new coronavirus pneumonia) these things.
华南海鲜市场是我从小去到大的，开车十分钟就能到，离学校只有5站地铁。
South China Seafood Market is my childhood to the big, 10 minutes drive to the city, only five stations from the school subway.
那边确实挺脏、挺乱，但东西全，我们会去买海鲜、甲鱼。
It was dirty and messy, but everything was good and we would buy seafood and turtle.
后来我痛风，不能吃海鲜，家人很长时间没有接近过那里。
I later gout, can not eat seafood, the family has not been there for a long time.
吃完饭，我感觉身体有点热，一量，有点低烧，11点再量，还是低烧，立马去了同济医院。
After dinner, I feel a little hot, a bit low fever, 11 o'clock, or low fever, immediately went to Tongji Hospital.
医院已经把密封门安装好了，医生全穿着隔离服，病患人山人海，气氛不太对劲。
The hospital has installed the sealing door, the doctors are all dressed in isolation clothes, patients mountain sea, the atmosphere is not quite right.
说实话，我只在“非典”的纪录片里看过这些东西，感觉有点恐怖。
To tell you the truth, I only saw it in the SARS documentary and it was a little scary.
排在我前面大概有100个人，看到堆积成山的病例，我果断决定去不远处的武汉肺科医院，也在发热门诊和定点医院的名单上，我打个车就走了，事后证明这是正确的选择。
About 100 people ahead of me, seeing a mountain of cases, decided to go not far away to Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital, but also in the list of fever clinics and designated hospitals, and I got away with a car, which proved to be the right choice.
肺科医院挺宽敞的，过去以后，那里居然一个人都没有。
The pulmonary hospital was spacious. After all, there was nobody there.
分诊台的护士戴着护目镜和口罩，但没有全副武装。
The nurses at the clinic wore goggles and masks, but were not fully armed.
我很顺利地挂号，拍CT，查肝功能、血常规以及 DNA检测，排除了甲流、乙流、诺如病毒等这些恐怖的东西。
I successfully registered, took CT, checked liver function, blood routines and DNA tests, and ruled out the horrible things like A, B, and norovirus.
CT显示有斑片状影，双下肺感染，超敏C反应蛋白（CRP）略高，但我的血常规一切正常，医生开了药，认为我可以回家观察，三天之后再过来复查。
CT showed patchy shadow, lower lung infection, hypersensitive C-reactive protein (CRP) was slightly higher, but my blood routine was fine, and the doctor prescribed the drug, thinking I could go home to observe it and come back in three days.
之后又来了一对夫妻。
Then came another couple.
他们大概是想把病人（家属）转进来，但护士说没有接到转院通知，没办法接收病人。
They probably wanted to transfer the patient, but the nurse said she had not been notified of the transfer and was unable to receive the patient.
他们就跟护士吵架，他家里的情况确实不太好，病人确诊，已经病危。
They quarreled with the nurse and things were really not so good in his family. The patient was diagnosed and critically ill.
那对夫妻还是在那里站着，我也很无助，不知道那家人的命运是什么样了。
The couple was still standing there, and I was helpless, not knowing what the fate of the family was.
就在我去医院的前一天，奶奶跟我说她的同学确诊了，妈妈也在家庭群里发，因为同事的家人确诊，他们提前放假了。
Just the day before I went to the hospital, Grandma told me that her classmate had been diagnosed and that her mother had been in the family group because her colleagues' families had confirmed that they had taken early vacations.
我发了条微博，感觉危险在迫近。
I posted a tweet and felt the danger looming.
但那时还不知道，其实病毒已经降临到我头上来了。
But I didn't know at the time that the virus had actually hit me.
奶奶的同学1月27日去世。
Grandma's classmate passed away on January 27th.
听到这个消息确实太可怕了，一个80多岁的老人，经常跟我奶奶打牌，我也见过一次，怎么也想不到，身边的人因为这个病死掉了。
It was terrible to hear that, an 80-year-old man who often played cards with my grandma, and I never thought of anyone else dying of the disease.
1月21日晚的同济医院。
Tongji Hospital on the evening of 21 January.
受访者供图逃票“鬼门关”_接下来几天，我在自己家里隔离，和哥哥、奶奶三个人，刚好三个卧室。
The next few days, I was isolated in my own home, with my brother and grandmother, just three bedrooms.
奶奶戴着口罩把饭菜、热水送进来，我吃不下饭，就吃火锅、泡面，煮点潮汕牛肉丸、红薯粉，重口一点。
Grandma wearing a mask to food, hot water into the food, I can not eat hot pot, bubble noodles, boiling point Chaoshan beef balls, sweet potato powder, a point.
奶奶给我蒸鸡蛋，把蛋液打散，加点水煮，软软的，能慢慢咽下去。
Grandma gave me steamed eggs, eggs scattered, add some water boil, soft, can slowly swallow.
年三十晚上，奶奶没做什么特殊的菜，我点了一份外卖，油焖大虾，一个人在房间里吃。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, Grandma didn't cook anything special. I ordered a takeaway, stewed prawns, and ate it alone in the room.
没食欲也逼着自己吃饭，只有吃饱了免疫系统才能发挥最大作用。
Have no appetite to force their own eating, only eat full immune system can play the most important role.
这是我最痛苦的几天。
This has been my most painful day.
浑身上下酸痛，没有改善，咳嗽开始加剧，东西好不容易吃下去，又吐出来，腹泻。
All over the body aching, no improvement, cough began to intensify, things hard to eat down, and vomit out, diarrhea.
咳出痰的难度非常大，最严重的时候，咳到肚子疼。
The difficulty of coughing up sputum is very great, the most serious time, coughing up stomach pain.
有一次咳嗽，突然把痰咳出来，还挺有成就感。
Have a cough, spit coughing out suddenly, still feel a sense of accomplishment.
为了减缓咳嗽，我只能短呼吸，让咳嗽的频率短一点。
In order to relieve my cough, I can only take short breaths and keep my cough shorter.
卧室里有澡盆，我就经常泡澡，放松一下。
There is a bathtub in my bedroom, so I often take a bath and relax.
身体稍微好一点了，就看《偶像大师灰姑娘女孩》，这是日本偶像动画的巅峰之作，能提醒我，别忘了自己喜欢的人，以及选好的人生道路。
Better yet, watch "The Idol Masters Cinderella Girl," the pinnacle of Japanese Idol animation, to remind me of the people I love and the path I take.
我要活下来！我要活着去看她们的演唱会！1月25日晚上，我第一次复查，感染扩散，病情在恶化，已经高度疑似，但专家组不在，没办法会诊。
I'm going to live to see their concert! On the night of January 25, I had my first review, the infection spread, it was getting worse, and it was highly suspected, but the team was not available for consultation.
老妈开始分析数据，“超敏C反应蛋白升高，一般提示急性感染加重”，好在血氧饱和度是正常的，就是说，肺部被感染了，仍在努力工作。
Mom began to analyze the data. "A rise in hypersensitive C-reactive protein generally suggests an increase in acute infection." Fortunately, blood oxygen saturation is normal, that is, the lungs are infected and still working hard.
我拿了两天的输液药量，三天的（口服）药量，医生给我换药后，就没有（呕吐）副作用了。
I took two days of infusion, three days of (oral) doses, and the doctor changed my medication and there were no side effects.
第二天，我起床格外困难。
The next day, I got up very hard.
开着空调，我感觉非常冷，在被窝里发抖，烧到39度多。
With the air conditioner on, I felt very cold, shivering under the covers until it was more than 39 degrees.
我放了偶像演唱会的视频，音量开到最大，才慢慢有力量起来。
I played the video of the idol concert, the volume opened to the maximum, just slowly have the strength.
这一天是大年初二。
It is the second day of New Year.
我去医院输液，一辆殡仪馆的黑色长面包车，停在发热门诊的侧面，离我只有20米远，看到这东西，心里很不是滋味。
I went to the hospital for infusion, a long black van at the funeral parlor, parked on the side of the fever clinic, only 20 metres away, and it was very unpleasant to see it.
我去了医院对面的一个早点摊，味道挺差的，每次去吃都很不爽，就水饺比较好，因为有肉。
I went to a breakfast stall opposite the hospital. It tasted very bad. Every time I went to eat it, it was better to eat dumplings because there was meat.
没有办法，填饱肚子才有力气去看病。
There is no way to feed oneself before one has the strength to see a doctor.
肺科医院挂号的流程挺快。
The process of registering a lung hospital is fast.
拿到发票、排队、面诊，医生在电脑上看CT片子、出结果、开药，办事的效率还可以。
Get invoices, line up, face-to-face treatment, doctors in the computer to see CT films, results, medication, the efficiency of doing business.
输液室里大概20个人，已经坐满了。
There are about 20 people in the infusion room. They're full.
我靠着玻璃门，旁边是一个六七十岁的大爷，针打漏了，整个手背鼓起来。
I leaned against the glass door, next to a sixty or seventy-year-old man who had leaked and bulged his whole hand.
护士不停地打，老人的血管比较脆，容易打漏，他又按歪了（针头），手指都是血，蛮吓人的。
The nurse kept on beating, the old man's blood vessels were brittle and prone to leaks, and he pushed crooked [needle] again, his fingers were bloody and quite frightening.
老人没有发脾气，语气很无助。
The old man didn't lose his temper.
他想坐进去，因为（玻璃门）漏风，太冷了。
He wanted to sit in because the wind was leaking and it was too cold.
整个输液室里基本都是这种中老年人，中度患者，但看起来已经很痛苦。
The entire infusion room is filled with this middle-aged, medium-sized patient, but it seems to be in pain.
有的一边吸氧一边输液，有的针打漏了两三次，有的在跟护士吵架。
Some are sucking oxygen while infusion, some are leaking two or three times, and some are quarreling with nurses.
还有一个八十岁左右的老太，躺在走廊里在吸氧，因为（里面）没有床位了。
There was also an old woman of about eighty who was lying in the corridor sucking oxygen because there were no beds.
她的呼吸断断续续，有一点濒死的状态。
Her breath was intermittent, a little moribund.
我记得一个中年男性，质问护士为什么没有试剂盒，为什么不能确诊，声音挺大的。
I remember a middle-aged man asking a nurse why he didn't have a kit and why he couldn't diagnose it. It was loud.
护士说，试剂盒必须得专家组会诊，流程没走完，就没办法做检查。
The nurse said the kit had to be consulted by a panel of experts and could not be examined until the process was complete.
我看不下去了，就说“你很吵诶，声音小点，我们都是患者，互相理解，都不容易！”他也没说什么，回去继续排队了。
I couldn't take it anymore, so I said, "You're noisy, low-pitched, we're all patients, we understand each other, it's not easy!" He said nothing, and went back to the queue.
前期就诊到确诊就是这样：发热门诊——查血常规、拍CT——不严重的三天后复查。
Pre-diagnosis is like this: fever clinic - check blood routine, take CT - not serious after three days review.
严重了，专家组会同意试剂盒检验。
Seriously, the panel will agree to a kit test.
我看到有试剂盒放在护士的工作台上，两个蒙牛牛奶箱大小，但是对于病人来说，还是远远不够，只能先给最需要的人。
I saw a kit on the nurse's desk, the size of two Mengniu milk cartons, but for the patient, it was still not enough. It was for those who needed it most.
我属于轻症偏中度的，也没法用，有的病人就没熬到确诊。
I was a mild to moderate disease, there is no way to use, some patients did not boil down to diagnosis.
不过，现在湖北允许CT确诊了，试剂盒紧张的情况也有所缓解，可以少几次循环，争取更多时间治疗。
However, now that CT diagnosis has been allowed in Hubei Province, the tension in the kit has been alleviated, allowing less circulation and more time for treatment.
接下来几天，发热门诊的人数在缓慢增加，（医护）人手明显不够，叫了好几次叫不来。
Over the next few days, the number of people at the fever clinic increased slowly. There was a palpable shortage of staff and several calls could not be made.
但比起同济医院，这里人还不算多，秩序都挺好的。
But compared to Tongji Hospital, there are not many people here, order is quite good.
除了试剂盒之外，其他防护资源也不太够。
In addition to test kits, other protective resources are also inadequate.
发热门诊里，医生和护士穿不同颜色的防护服，杜邦、稳健、3M、金佰利，他们说自行采购的全部用完了，全是社会捐赠的。
In the fever clinic, doctors and nurses wear different colors of protective clothing. DuPont, DuPont, Steady, 3M and Kimberly-Clark say all their self-procurement has been used up.
他们也会进行一些改造，比如在脚上套一个浅蓝色的大鞋套，长度跟雨靴差不多，能把整个小腿包住；再用一个黑色三角的铁夹子夹住衣领，增加（防护服）密封性；扣在脸上的是一种透明的硬塑料，有的出现褶皱，可能是在消毒的情况下重复使用。
They also make changes, such as putting a light blue shoe cover on their feet, the length of which is similar to that of a rain boot, to wrap the whole calf around them, and a black triangular iron clamp to hold the collar and increase the seal; a transparent hard plastic, some wrinkled, may be reused in disinfection.
我拍CT的时候，看到有医生和护士也在拍CT，一问，在发烧，可能也被感染了。
When I took my CT scan, I saw a doctor and a nurse taking a CT, asking if he had a fever and might have been infected.
1月28日，我第二次复查，9点拍的片，10点之前出结果，CT检测报告显示，“双肺感染，好转。
On January 28, I reviewed for the second time, the 9: 00 film, the results before 10: 00, CT test report showed, "Two lung infections, better.
”这次，专家组给了我试剂盒测试资格。
This time, the group gave me a test kit qualification.
十一二点的时候，护士对我进行采样。
At 1112, the nurse took a sample of me.
第二天，结果显示阳性，我正式被确诊。
The next day, the results were positive, and I was officially diagnosed.
不过，医生说我不需要住院，发了5天抗病毒的药，回去隔离就行。
However, the doctor said I do not need to be hospitalized, issued anti-viral drugs for five days, just go back to isolation.
没想到，“鬼门关一日游”还逃票了！我就回家了，待在房间内基本不出来。
Unexpectedly, "Ghost door one day tour" also escapes the ticket! I went home, stay in the room basically does not come out.
陪伴小孙度过艰难时期的动漫。
Accompanying Sun through the difficult period of animation.
受访者供图活着去看演唱会_武汉原本是一个非常热闹的城市，吃的东西多，有两个高铁站，交通方便，江汉路步行街是最热闹的。
Interviewees to live to see concert _ Wuhan was originally a very busy city, eat a lot of things, there are two high-speed rail stations, convenient transportation, Jianghan Road pedestrian street is the most lively.
“封城”的消息一出来，公交系统突然停摆，行人变少了，病人越来越多，想想挺可怕的，城市能在瞬间产生这种变化。
As soon as the news of the "closure" came out, the bus system suddenly stopped, pedestrians became fewer and the number of patients increased. It was terrible to think that the city could make such a change in an instant.
因为家里人懂药物，知道吃什么药最可能有效，又研究了之前“非典”的各种报道，提前购买了一些药，家里也有储备的口服药，让我少跑了腿，不用总去医院，方便了不少。
Because my family knew the medicines and what was most likely to work, I studied all the previous SARS reports, bought some medicines in advance and took them orally at home, making it easier for me to run less and not to go to the hospital all the time.
事后证明，我们赌对了。
It turned out we were right.
2月1日复查，拍了CT，查血常规，病灶已经从整个肺吸收到双下肺了，医生说，这是正在康复的明显标志，建议三天后再一次复查。
February 1 Review, took a CT, blood routine, the lesion has been absorbed from the entire lung to the lower lungs, the doctor said, this is a clear sign of recovery, recommended three days later review.
下午，我爸开车去医院拿肝功能的结果，CRP降至2mg/L，已经是正常水平了。
In the afternoon, as a result of my father's drive to the hospital for liver function, CRP dropped to 2 mg / L, which is normal.
我严格按照医嘱吃药，症状几乎消失了，食欲恢复，开始正常吃东西，感觉身体慢慢脱离了危险。
I took the medicine strictly as advised, and the symptoms almost disappeared, my appetite returned and I began to eat normally, feeling my body slowly out of danger.
每天，我大概12点起来，吃个饭，开始刷剧。
Every day, I get up at about 12 o'clock, have a meal and start brushing.
我还看了《血疫》（编者注：一部记录人类抗击埃博拉病毒的非虚构作品），倒想看看这玩意到底怎么传播的。
I also watched Bloody Plague (note to the editor: a non-fiction recording the fight against Ebola in humans) and wanted to see how it spread.
2月4日，我又拍了CT，显示肺部病灶继续吸收好转，也不再咳嗽了。
On February 4, I took another CT scan, which showed that the lung lesions continued to absorb better and that I no longer coughed.
医生补开了两天的药量，并允许做试剂盒测试，用的是一支短试管，一支长的采样棒，他们用采样棒采样完毕，插进试管，盖上盖子，放入转运箱，送到楼上的检测室，检测结果显示为阴性。
The doctor prescribed the dosage for two days and allowed the kit to be tested, using a short test tube and a long sampling rod, which they sampled with sampling rods, inserted into the test tube, covered with a lid, placed in a transhipment tank and sent to the testing room upstairs, where the test results were negative.
之后，我收到一条短信，让我2月6日上午8点至10点，凭本人身份证到院门诊发热预检分诊处，再次做核酸检测，进一步确诊。
Then, I received a short message, let me February 6 8: 00 am to 10: 00 am, with my identity card to the outpatient clinic, again do nucleic acid testing, further confirmed.
7号出结果，再次显示阴性。
Number 7 results, negative again.
从患病到治愈，历时20天，全程未住院。
From the illness to the cure, lasted 20 days, the entire process was not hospitalized.
回家途中，我们路过一家早餐店，有热干面、豆浆、烧卖和豆皮。
On our way home, we passed a breakfast shop with hot and dry noodles, soy milk, roast and peas.
吃到久违的热干面和豆皮，感觉真棒！但在原来，这些对我们来说就是一个平常的早餐而已。
It's great to eat hot, dry noodles and peas after a long time, but in fact, it's just a normal breakfast for us.
我很兴奋地拍了豆皮，发了条微博，“还有豆皮，还有希望。
I was very excited to pat the peel, made a tweet, "and bean skin, there is hope.
”回家路上吃到的豆皮。
"Peas on the way home.
受访者供图我给疾控中心，社区、防疫指挥部打电话（上报）。
The interviewee told me to call the CDC, the community and the epidemic prevention command.
社区主任手里甚至有两三个电话，我听到她对另一个电话说，“没有床位了， 转不进去。
The community director even had two or three phone calls, and I heard her say to another, "There's no bed, no turning in.
我也没有车，没办法接。
I don't have a car. I can't pick it up.
我总不能跟你一个人聊两三小时，还有其他人要打起来。
I can't talk to you alone for two or three hours, and someone else is going to fight.
”这段时间，他们每天收到“病重了”“人不行了”“床位不够”“转不了院”这种消息，我的消息或许是一个极大的鼓舞。
In the meantime, they received the news every day that they were seriously ill, that there were not enough beds and that they could not get to the hospital, and my news was perhaps a great encouragement.
我对社区主任说，“今天试剂盒第二次检测结果出来了，是阴性，我已经康复了。
I told the community director: "The second test results from the kit came out today. They're negative. I've recovered.
”她的语气立马变了，好像比我还高兴，“恭喜恭喜，又有了一个治愈的案例！”两天后是元宵节，奶奶特意煮了元宵，分发到各自房间里。
"Her tone changed immediately, as if happier than I did," Congratulations, there's another case of cure! "Two days later, on the Lantern Festival, Grandma cooked the Lantern Festival specially and distributed it to her room.
因为吃不下饭，我下楼买了老干妈。
Unable to eat, I went downstairs and bought an old wet nurse.
我爸把我骂死了，说我太大意了。
My father called me dead and said I was too careless.
虽然我的病灶转阴了，但没有完全吸收干净，双肺仍没有完全康复。
Although my lesion turned cloudy, it was not completely absorbed and my lungs still did not fully recover.
2月9日，社区工作人员通知我，（最新要求）无论是否转阴，都要送到酒店去隔离。
On 9 February, community workers informed me that they would take them to the hotel to be quarantined, regardless of whether they were overcast or not.
酒店离我家一公里不到，社区工作人员穿着防护服，站在门口，让我做第3次复诊，按照程序来讲，只要试剂盒送来，检测结果还是阴性，我就可以回家了。
Less than a kilometer from my home, community workers in protective clothing stood at the door and asked me to make the third revisit. As a matter of procedure, as long as the kit arrived and the test results were negative, I could go home.
（编者注：截止至2月11日，试剂盒尚未送到，小孙仍在宾馆隔离，但根据《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，小孙第二次试剂盒检测显示仍为阴性，医生告诉他已达到治愈标准。
(Note to Editor: As of Feb. 11, the kit had not yet arrived and Sun was still in quarantine at the hotel. However, according to the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 5), Sun's second dose-box test showed negative and the doctor told him that the standard had been met.
）这里房间很大，是个双人间，空调是独立的。
) The room is large, it is a double room, and the air conditioner is independent.
三餐都是盒饭，有牛肉、虾、娃娃菜，也有烧鸡，相当不错。
Three meals are boxed rice, there are beef, shrimp, baby vegetables, but also roast chicken, quite good.
但热水不太热，照明不够，也没有窗户，光线有点暗。
But the hot water was not too hot, the lighting was not enough, there were no windows, and the light was a little dark.
我带了两套衣服、电脑、手机、一本偶像大师的漫画、一本日语书加上配套练习册。
I brought two suits of clothes, a computer, a cell phone, a cartoon of an idol master, a Japanese book and a companion exercise book.
当然，我最喜欢的娃娃也没有落下。
Of course, my favorite doll also did not fall.
我爸爸说，宾馆外面已经拉起警戒线，门外，有医护人员和保安。
My dad said that a security cordon had been set up outside the hotel. Outside, there were paramedics and security guards.
今天，医护人员来测体温，询问是什么情况，登记疑似、阳性还是转阴的患者。
Today, paramedics come to take a temperature test to ask what is happening and to register patients who are suspected, positive or overcast.
但被关在房间里，空气不流通，反而让我有些担心。
But being shut in the room, the air is not circulating, but let me worry a little.
隔离宾馆。
Isolate the hotel.
受访者供图现在，武汉还是没有恢复到之前的样子。
The interviewee supply picture now, Wuhan has not returned to the previous situation.
但城市也在慢慢苏醒，从我房间的窗户望去，就是二环线上高架桥，有顺丰的快递车路过。
But the city is also slowly waking up, from my room window, is the Second Ring Road viaduct, there is Shunfeng express cars passing by.
街上的车变多了，开业的店也变多了，医院回家的路上，能看到开门的副食店，有人去买。
There were more cars on the streets and more shops opening. On the way home, the hospital could see the grocery store that opened the door and someone went to buy it.
我平时是个吃货，胃口恢复后，就想吃好吃的，很怀念如意馄饨、日式牛肉饭。
I am usually a food, appetite to recover, would like to eat delicious, very nostalgic wonton, Japanese beef rice.
回想最难受的那几天，《偶像大师灰姑娘女孩》陪伴着我。
Think back to the most miserable days, the "idol master Cinderella Girl" accompanied me.
她们是一群学生，女主角想当偶像，训练了一年多，一直没有放弃。
They are a group of students, heroines want to be idols, training for more than a year, has not given up.
第一集有一个镜头特写：女主在一个小公园，捧着地上的花瓣，对着镜头微笑，后面是一棵大樱花树，阳光明媚，特别美。
In the first episode, there is a close-up of the lady in a small park, holding the petals on the ground, smiling at the camera, behind which is a big cherry tree, bright and beautiful.
当时我就哭了，想到自己反差特别大，平凡的生活没有了。
At that time, I cried, thinking that their contrast is particularly large, ordinary life is no longer.
武大的樱花也快开了，我可能以后也看不到了。
Wu Da cherry blossoms are opening soon, and I may not see them again.
后来，女主遭受了精神上的困难，不过，她最后走出来了，其实对我来说就是一种激励，帮助我战胜恐惧与死亡。
Later, the woman suffered from mental difficulties, however, she finally came out, in fact, for me is an inspiration, to help me overcome fear and death.
当然，我现在也走出来了，就是这样，挺好的。
Of course, I'm coming out now. That's it. That's good.
等到2024年，我又能活着去看偶像十周年的演唱会。
By 2024, I will be alive again to see the tenth anniversary concert of my idol.
（文中小孙为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论作者简介程静之认识远方的你。
At Rite & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
康复后的那顿早餐，我在武汉街头吃了热干面和豆皮。
After the recovery of that breakfast, I ate hot dry noodles and soybean hides on the streets of Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "康复后的那顿早餐，我在武汉街头吃了热干面和豆皮";。
var msg _ title = & quot; At rehabilitation breakfast, I had hot, dry noodles and bean skin at & quot; & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "“还有豆皮，还有希望。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "And bean skin, and hope.
”";。
";;
title: '等待章莹颖 | 女儿失踪的464个日夜',。
AT & T & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '木里的风，带走了凉山消防四中队三班',。
The wind at Rangshan & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '极昼工作室',。
Subject _ name: & apos; day studio & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
