全民在线上课，一块屏幕改变了什么？。
Universal online classes, a screen changed what?
誉瑾。
Yu Jin did not.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
为什么这次在线教育又火了？“到了2020年，老师和学生都不用去学校了，在家里就能上课”。
"By 2020, teachers and students will no longer need to go to school and will be able to take classes at home," he said.
这是2000年梦想杯作文大赛特等奖节选中的一句话，没想到在二十年后的今天却由于新冠肺炎疫情影响而变成了现实。
This is the dream cup 2000 composition competition special prize extract, unexpectedly 20 years later today because of the new crown pneumonia epidemic has become a reality.
近年来在线教育被社会各界寄予了厚望，也是教育领域长盛不衰的话题，但受制于各种原因，在线教育距离广泛普及还有一段路要走。
In recent years, online education has been widely expected by the general public. It is also a hot topic in the field of education. However, due to various reasons, online education has a long way to go.
疫情影响之下，这也是第一次，在线教育从“备选项”成为”刚需“，在更大范围内被认可和接受。
For the first time under the epidemic, online education has gone from "optional" to "just-needed," gaining wider acceptance and acceptance.
在线学习浪潮汹涌而来为响应教育部疫情期间“停课不停学”的号召，2月10日，全国超过1亿中小学生在家上起了网课。
More than 100 million primary and middle school students nationwide took classes at home on February 10 in response to a call from the Ministry of Education to "stop classes and study.
这是中国互联网发展20年，首次出现学生的日常教学从线下转移到了线上的情况。
This is China's Internet development 20 years, the first time students day-to-day teaching from the offline to the online situation.
过去一周，全国31个省市自治区推迟了原先制定的开学时间。
In the past week, the country's 31 provinces and municipalities have delayed the start of the school year.
众多在线教育机构相继在全国推出免费或低价课程，线下教育机构和学校也将课堂搬到了线上。
Numerous online educational institutions have introduced free or low-cost courses across the country, and offline educational institutions and schools have moved classrooms online.
据不完全统计，截至目前，已有新东方在线、学而思网校、猿辅导、作业帮、网易有道、跟谁学等超过20家在线教育企业向全国学生提供免费课程。
According to incomplete statistics, up to now, more than 20 online educational enterprises, including New Oriental Online, Learning to Think, Apes Counselling, Homework, Netease, and Whom to Learn, offer free courses to students across the country.
“开放免费直播课以来，短短不到十天时间，2000万中小学生报名领取课程，这是一个在线教育平台往往需要几年时间才能完成的用户积累。
"In less than 10 days since the opening of free live classes, 20 million primary and secondary school students have signed up for the course, an online education platform that often takes years to complete.
”猿辅导在线教育平台的一位相关负责人表示。
A director of the Apes Counselling Online Education Platform said.
此前，根据艾媒咨询预测，2020年中国在线教育用户规模将达到2.96亿人。
Earlier, China's online education users will reach 296 million by 2020, according to Aimedia.
疫情期间用户对在线教育产品的集中尝试，将加速在线教育用户规模的扩张。
User focus on online education products during the epidemic will accelerate the expansion of online education users.
一场全民在线学习潮正在掀起。
A wave of online learning for all is underway.
全民在线学习的背后突然的线上教学，对习惯了线下授课的老师们是个不小的挑战：不仅要重新编写教案、制作PPT，还要学习直播平台的交互方式。
The sudden online instruction behind Universal Online Learning presents a major challenge for teachers used to offline instruction: not only rewriting the curriculum, making PPT, but also learning how to interact on a live-broadcast platform.
陈宁是山西某高中的数学老师，回忆最近第一次上网课时的情形，他用”难度堪比再就业“来形容。
Chen Ning, a math teacher at a Shanxi high school, recalled his first online class, describing it as "as difficult as re-employment."
微博上网课“翻车现场”也比比皆是：生物老师上课被直播平台封号，政治老师上课忘记开麦……除此以外，网课的流畅度低、体验差等也遭到人们的频频吐槽。
Microblogging classes "flip-flop scene" is everywhere: biological teachers were broadcast live platform cover, political teachers forget to open wheat... In addition, the network courses fluency, poor experience and other people frequently spit.
这些“翻车现场”在让人哭笑不得之余，也再次引发了人们关于在线教育行业的价值探讨。
These "roll-over scenes", in addition to making people laugh and cry, have also triggered a new discussion about the value of the online education industry.
“此前一直习惯于线下教学，由于没有实操过，并不了解线上授课到底是什么”。
"I had been used to teaching offline, and I didn't know what online instruction was because I didn't know what it was."
陈宁依旧在忙碌地准备着课件，但在短短两天的试播课中，他通过不断尝试，经验总结，已经很快熟悉了网上教学的流程。
Chen is still busy preparing his courseware, but in just two days of trial-and-error sessions, he has quickly familiarized himself with the online teaching process by experimenting and summarizing his experiences.
“尽管是一个挑战，但网络教育一定是大势所趋。
"Although it is a challenge, online education must be the trend.
“陈宁说。
"said Chen Ning.
事实上，在线教育经历多年的发展，早已经有了相对成熟的运营模式，在在线1对1、小班课、双师制等模式的应用和尝试下，一些在线教育机构初显规模雏形，拥有了稳定的学习用户群体。
In fact, after many years of development, online education has developed a relatively mature mode of operation. With the application and trial of online 1-to-1, small-class classes and duplex models, some online educational institutions are beginning to take shape and have stable learning user groups.
比如为保证学习效果，猿辅导采用了特有的双师辅导模式，主讲老师授课，班主任老师跟进孩子的学习。
For example, to ensure learning effect, ape counseling adopted a unique dual tutoring model, the main teacher lectures, the head teacher followed up on the children's learning.
班主任老师会观察学员的课上学习状态，通过实时互动回复学员提出的问题，引导他们及时听课，并在课后答疑补缺。
The head teacher will observe the learner's state of study in class, respond to questions in real time, guide them to attend classes in time, and answer questions after class.
又如抢麦这一特色功能的设置，让每个学员都有机会通过视频上麦的方式，与主讲老师实时沟通。
And such as the features of the set-up, so that each student has the opportunity to use video on the way, and real-time communication with the lecturer.
这就类似于线下课堂中学生被老师点名回答问题，既方便了老师对于学习效果的检验，也有助于学生学习兴趣的提升。
This is similar to the off-line classroom students are called by the teacher to answer the question, not only convenient for teachers to test the results of learning, but also conducive to the improvement of students learning interests.
正在上小学三年级的兰兰性格比较内向，一次上了麦，被老师点到了，“觉得特别激动，学习爱好就提升起来了，每次上课前都认真准备。
Lanlan is in the third grade of primary school character more introverted, once on the Mai, was called by the teacher, "feel particularly excited, learning hobbies on the rise, every time before the class carefully prepared.
”11岁的苗苗则很喜欢猿辅导的视频剪辑和回放功能，“有时候想要记笔记，就可以剪下来慢慢抄，遇到一个知识点不是很懂，还可以看回放。
"The 11-year-old loves ape-assisted video editing and playback." Sometimes you want to take notes, you can cut them out and copy them slowly.
”此外，课堂PK答题环节，通过在屏幕上拖曳、连线完成的课堂小测验等，都能激发学生的专注力。
In addition, the PK part of the class, through dragging on the screen, completed classroom quizzes, etc., can stimulate students' concentration.
一直以来，在线教育为人诟病的参与感低，缺乏互动和趣味性不足已经在很大程度上得以弥补和改善。
Online education has long been criticized for a low sense of engagement, and a lack of interaction and interest has largely been remedied and improved.
而在这种新型的学习方式下，学生也真正感受到了“教与学”带来的快乐。
In this new way of learning, students also really feel the "teaching and learning" brought happiness.
2月3日，猿辅导在线上开学，500万人同日在线学习。
On 3 February, ape counselling began online, with 5 million people learning online on the same day.
“确实想念学习”，有不少学生发出了这样的感慨，这是在线教育发挥的真正意义与价值。
"Really miss learning," a lot of students issued such feelings, this is the real significance and value of online education.
在进化中迎接未来在线教育异常火爆的当下，挑战也依然存在。
The challenge remains to evolve to meet the future explosion of online education.
眼下，突然暴增的需求，首当其冲的是对平台稳定性的考验，此外，对师资力量、课程内容的要求也在随之剧增。
At present, the sudden surge in demand, the first test of the stability of the platform, in addition to the teacher force, curriculum content requirements are also soaring.
“网课老师，技术人员每天基本都在连轴转。
"Network teachers, technicians are basically in contact with each other every day.
”猿辅导在线教育相关负责人表示，疫情发生以来，为了给学生学习提供支持，公司第一时间开放了免费直播课，这其中投入巨大。
Since the outbreak, the company has opened its first free live lessons to support students' learning, which has been a huge investment, according to the director of online ape instruction.
据了解，猿辅导免费直播课动员了356位主讲老师、412位助教老师、151位技术人员以及更多相关工作人员持续“作战”。
The Apes Free Live Program is understood to have mobilized 356 lecturers, 412 teaching assistants, 151 technicians and more to fight.
对很多老师来说，免费直播课既是对教育行业的坚守，也是一次挑战。
For many teachers, free live lessons are a challenge as well as a commitment to the education industry.
另一个方面，在线教育作为一个有温度的产品，借助优势技术手段和资源优势，打破师生配比和时空限制，让优质师资实现共享。
On the other hand, online education as a temperature products, with the advantage of technological means and resources, break down the ratio of teachers and students and space-time constraints, so that quality teachers can be shared.
像学生们平时难以面见的余秋雨、周国平、刘墉、詹青云、熊浩等一些名家学者、青年榜样一一应邀，他们通过在线教育平台分享所得，让更多地区的学生从中受益。
Some famous scholars, such as Yu Qiuyu, Zhou Guoping, Yong Yong Liu, Zhan Qingyun and Xiong Hao, who are difficult to meet, have been invited to share their earnings through an online education platform, benefiting more students from all over the region.
在疫情期间，猿辅导特意邀请到北师大教授刘嘉分享如何应对疫情期间的紧张情绪，让学生们能够在这个特殊时期进行有效心理疏导。
During the outbreak, ape counseling specifically invited Professor Liu Jia from Beijing Normal University to share how to deal with the tensions during the outbreak so that students can effectively manage their psychological counseling during this particular period.
对此，余秋雨曾经评论说，“我们不必在每个课堂里面重复劳动。
"We don't have to do it in every classroom," Yu once commented.
而学生们可以通过互联网获得全世界最前沿的知识和最优质的教师，这是现代科技给我们带来的方便。
And students can access the world's most cutting-edge knowledge and the best teachers through the Internet, which is brought us convenience by modern technology.
”在科技的加持下，一些未来的“教与学”场景正逐步在真实生活上演：智能工具实时捕捉教学反馈，教师备课有了更多参考依据；学生遇到不懂的题目不用再等待老师救场，手机扫一扫获得解题指导；手写英文作文、古诗文背诵由系统就可以自动完成批改和语音识别，老师有了更多时间去做教育创新……猿辅导和公司旗下小猿搜题、猿题库、小猿口算、斑马AI课等多款在线教育产品，根据各自功能属性发挥不同优势，为用户提供从网课、智能练习到难题解析等多元化的智能教育服务，最终形成系统性、高效率的完整学习闭环。
With the help of technology, some future scenarios of "teaching and learning" are playing out in real-life situations: smart tools capture real-time teaching feedback, teachers have more references to prepare for classes, students have different advantages in terms of their functional attributes, and teachers have more time to develop intelligent educational services ranging from online lessons, apes, apes, and zebra AI.
2013年被普遍认为是在线教育的元年。
The year 2013 is widely regarded as the first year of online education.
七年间，从萌芽到成长，再到疫情期间的火爆入场，我们已经看到在线教育带来的改变和价值，行业的成熟和完善更需要整个社会的包容和支持。
In seven years, from germination to growth, to hot entry during the epidemic, we have seen the change and value of online education, and the maturation and perfection of the industry requires the inclusion and support of the whole society.
疫情总有一天会过去，返校总有一天会到来。
The epidemic will pass and homecoming will come one day.
但在线教育倒逼传统教与学的改变不会戛然而止，其对教育教学领域的重要变化和深远影响也许才刚刚开始。
But online education will not force a sudden change in traditional teaching and learning, and its important changes and far-reaching effects on education and teaching may be just beginning.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全民在线上课，一块屏幕改变了什么？。
Universal online classes, a screen changed what?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "全民在线上课，一块屏幕改变了什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "为什么这次在线教育又火了？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Why did this online education catch on?;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
