和疫情一线的医生聊的越多，就越尊重他们。
The more you talk to doctors on the front lines of the epidemic, the more you respect them.
王维。
Wang Wei.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2020庚子年春节，武汉封城、全国防控，商场歇业、餐厅关门……肆虐的疫情打破了中国人习以为常的普通生活。
2020 Gengzi Spring Festival, Wuhan sealing city, national control and control, shopping malls closed down, restaurants closed... raging epidemic broke the normal life of the Chinese accustomed to.
一批又一批医护人员，从全国各地赶往武汉。
Groups of medical personnel from all over the country rushed to Wuhan.
疫情期间，除了政府和医疗机构外，中国互联网公司也都纷纷出手。
During the epidemic, in addition to the government and medical institutions, China's Internet companies have also taken action.
阿里10亿物资驰援武汉，腾讯向武汉捐款3亿、字节跳动捐赠2亿……互联网公司展现出了强大的资源调度能力，为这场疫情战争贡献物力、财力、运力，通过平台进行公众防疫教育、引导社会秩序，支持着特殊时期的社会生活运转。
Tecent donated 300 million yuan and 200 million bytes to Wuhan... Internet companies have demonstrated their great ability to deploy resources, contribute material, financial and transportation capacity to the epidemic war, educate the public on epidemic prevention through the platform, guide social order and support the operation of social life in special periods.
2020年的这个春节，可能是很多互联网公司和员工最累的一个春节。
The Spring Festival in 2020 is probably the most exhausting one for many Internet companies and employees.
因为疫情，很多人放弃假期在家加班——有些是被迫的，也有很多是主动请战的。
Because of the epidemic, many people have given up working at home on holidays - some under compulsion and many on their own initiative.
这些公司和员工这段忙碌的经历，是互联网公司参与社会公共问题治理的又一个缩影。
The busy experience of these companies and employees is another microcosm of Internet companies participating in the governance of public issues in society.
文｜王维睡衣客服：接听医生的电话越多，越尊敬他们大年初三早上7:30，湖南益阳，支付宝客服李鼎准时坐到电脑前，开始一天的工作。
+ 8 The more you answer the doctor's phone calls, the more respect they have for them. At 7: 30 a.m. on Wednesday morning in Yiyang, Hunan Province, Li Ding, a customer service provider, sits punctually at his computer and starts the day's work.
这个春节，她带着丈夫回老家过年。
This Spring Festival, she took her husband home for the New Year.
但实际上，她跟丈夫一天也说不上几句话。
In reality, however, she and her husband could not say much for a day.
「眼睛一睁穿着睡衣就开始工作，一整天都顾不上洗脸。
"I started working with my eyes open in my pajamas and didn't wash my face all day.
」因为客服电话内容会涉及到来电用户的隐私，她把自己关在房间内工作。
"Because customer service calls involve the privacy of incoming customers, she confines herself to work in her room.
除了喊吃饭，家人也不敢轻易去打扰她。
The family did not dare to disturb her except to shout for food.
打电话来的，都是来自武汉各大医院的医生。
The callers were doctors from all the major hospitals in Wuhan.
为了保护一线医护人员，支付宝这天凌晨上线了「医护人员保障金」，被感染的医护人员可以免费申请最高10万元的保障金。
To protect front-line health care workers, Pao paid a "Medical Staff Security Fund" in the early hours of the morning. Infected healthcare personnel can apply for a maximum of $100,000 free of charge.
打电话来的医生，有些已经不幸被新冠病毒感染，有些则单纯来咨询保障金的规则。
Some of the doctors who have called have been tragically infected with the new crown virus, while others have simply come to ask for the rules.
这个春节，支付宝总共有248名客服和李鼎一样，在这个春节加班接听全国医生的咨询电话、处理申请需求。
This Spring Festival, a total of 248 paid Bao customer service and Li Ding, the Spring Festival overtime to answer the national doctor's calls, processing requests.
每天早上9点，他们通过在线视频开例会安排一整天的工作。
Every morning at 9 o'clock, they plan a full day's work by holding regular meetings via video link.
平均每位客服一天要接50多个来电。
On average, each customer receives more than 50 calls a day.
第一天，收到了40多位感染的医护人员的保障金申请。
On the first day, more than 40 applications for funding were received from infected health-care workers.
李鼎所在客服团队的每日线上例会，视频显示名字为阿里花名武汉大学中南医院急救中心病房主任赵医生，27号那天给支付宝客服打了电话，是李鼎的同事陈爽接到的。
Li Ding's customer service team's daily online meetings, the video shows the name of Ali Hua Name Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, the hospital ward director of the hospital, Dr. Zhao, 27 to pay treasure customer service on the phone, Li Ding's colleague Chen Shuang received.
陈爽是湖北孝感人，因为武汉封城这个春节没能回家，留在杭州工作。
Chen Shuang is Hubei filial piety moving, because Wuhan Fengcheng this Spring Festival failed to return home, stay in Hangzhou to work.
早在1月10日，赵医生所在的中南医院急救中心就被抽用为发热病房，病情严重的发烧病人都要在急救中心观察三天，进行核酸检测确认是否感染新型肺炎。
As early as January 10, Zhao's emergency center at the South China Hospital was pumped into a fever ward, where patients with severe fever were observed for three days at the emergency centre for a nucleic acid test to confirm their new pneumonia.
赵医生和同事开始了连轴转的工作，急救中心一直是满床的状态。
Dr. Zhao and his colleagues began the work of connecting the axis, the emergency center has been full of beds.
赵医生军医出生，参加过2003年SARS和2008年的汶川地震救援。
Dr. Zhao was born as a military doctor and participated in the rescue of SARS in 2003 and Wenchuan earthquake in 2008.
经历过大风大浪的他被陈爽称为「硬汉医生」，因为即使发现自己被感染后赵医生也非常淡定。
After the storm, he was called "Dr. Tough Man" by Chen Shuang, because even after discovering that he had been infected, Dr. Zhao was very calm.
为了不占用医院床位，他选择回家隔离治疗。
In order not to occupy hospital beds, he chose to go home for isolation treatment.
在家隔离的日子他也不愿意闲着，在医院网站上在线问诊，20小时接诊了200个病人。
Nor did he want to be idle on days of home isolation, consulting online on the hospital's website, where he treated 200 patients in 20 hours.
穿着防护服的赵医生（中间）和同事们「协和医院有位被感染的医生来申请保障金的时候，建议我们把保障金额度降低一些，怕我们的负担太重。
Dr. Zhao (middle), wearing protective clothing, and his colleagues at Concorde Hospital, when an infected doctor came to apply for a pension, suggested that we reduce the allowance so that we would not be overburdened.
接医生的电话越多，就会越尊敬他们。
The more you answer a doctor's phone call, the more you respect them.
」很多医生康复后会选择回到医院继续战斗。
"Many doctors, when they recover, choose to return to the hospital and fight on.
作为湖北人，陈爽有几次都差点在接医生电话的时候哭出来。
As a person from Hubei province, Chen Shuang almost cried when he answered the doctor's phone.
「我们能做些什么？」李鼎和陈爽的老板，支付宝保险事业群的总裁尹铭，从大年初一晚上就开始忙碌了起来。
"What can we do?" Li Ding and Chen Shuang's boss, Yin Ming, president of Alipay Insurance Group, have been busy since the New Year's Eve.
这一天，是武汉封城第三天。
This day is the third day of Wuhan Seal.
浙江、四川、山东、湖南等省份组织医疗队，驰援武汉。
Zhejiang, Sichuan, Shandong, Hunan and other provinces organized medical teams to help Wuhan.
全国30个省（区、市）宣布启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Thirty provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities have announced the start of a first-level response to major public health emergencies.
全国疫情形势陡然严峻。
The national epidemic is acute.
「我们能做些什么？」大年初一晚上，家在上海的尹铭在他的团队工作群里问。
"What can we do?" asked Yin Ming, who lives in Shanghai on the first night of the Chinese New Year.
他们最先想到的是医疗险启动新冠肺炎快速理赔，协调合作的保险公司打开绿色理赔通道。
They are the first to think of health insurance to start a new crown pneumonia claims quickly, co-ordinated insurance companies open green claims channel.
但早在1月21日，国家医保局就宣布为新冠肺炎患者采取特殊报销政策，也就是新冠肺炎患者医疗费基本由国家医保承担。
But as early as January 21, the NHS announced a special reimbursement policy for new cases of pneumonia, whereby the cost of care for patients with Newcrown Pneumonia would be covered largely by Medicare.
按照医疗险行业规则，由国家兜底的疾病治疗，医疗险无法进行重复理赔。
According to the rules of the medical insurance industry, the state-run treatment of diseases, medical insurance can not be repeated claims.
「现在风险最高、最需要保障的是一线的医护群体。
"What is at greatest risk and most in need of protection is the front-line health care community.
」支付宝保险平台产品总监梁越平在浙江东阳参与群里的讨论。
"Alipay Insurance Platform Product Director Liang Yuping in the Zhejiang Dongyang participating group discussion.
在他看来，医护人员是抗击疫情的主力军，他们需要更多保障的防护来减轻后顾之忧。
In his view, health care workers are the main force in the fight against the epidemic, and they need more protective protection to ease their worries.
「免费给医护人员提供保障」的产品方向得到了很多同事的支持。
The "Free Health Care" product orientation has won the support of many colleagues.
而一位医生在朋友圈的呼吁让他们更坚定了这个想法。
The appeal of a doctor in a circle of friends reinforced the idea.
放弃精算，「盲拍」预算，连夜上线大年初二下午13点，在经过初步的方案论证之后，项目正式立项。
Abandon the actuarial, "blind shooting" budget, even after the launch of the New Year's Day at 13: 00 p.m., after the preliminary program after the project formal project.
支付宝保险事业群的技术、产品、运营、UED(用户体验设计)、法务和财务，一共50人左右的虚拟团队，在全国各地瞬间到位。
The technology, products, operations, UED (user experience design), legal affairs and finance of the Alipay Insurance Group, a virtual team of about 50 people, were deployed instantaneously throughout the country.
但产品要落地，一堆技术性问题也迎面而来：新冠肺炎传染源还未确定，这种突发疫情如何做精算？2003年的SARS的发病率、死亡率能作为参考吗？一线医生护士都在忙于抗击疫情，如何简化他们领取保障、申请保障金的流程和步骤？保障金是免费捐赠给医生，没有准确精算的话，如何预估可能产生的资金预算？……资深数据专家徐海军当时人在杭州。
First-line doctors and nurses are busy fighting the epidemic, how to simplify their procedures and procedures for receiving the guarantee and applying for the subsidy? How do you estimate the likely budget of the fund if there is no exact actuary?
他分析了2003年SARS的统计数据：全国确诊感染人数5327例，死亡349例，其中医护人员感染近1000例，殉职约100人。
He analyzed the 2003 SARS statistics: 5,327 cases and 349 deaths were diagnosed nationwide, with nearly 1,000 cases of infection and 100 deaths among health-care workers.
而1月27日这天，新冠肺炎当时的全国确诊人数为1975例，被感染医护人员为15人。
On January 27, the number of confirmed cases nationwide was 1975, with 15 people infected.
「我们不知道这次疫情会不会比SARS严重，会严重多少倍。
"We do not know if this outbreak will be more serious than SARS, how much more serious.
这种情况下，精算手段基本失效。
In such cases, the actuarial instrument is largely ineffective.
」支付宝的资深财务专家胡铮透露，团队最后只能「盲拍」一个预算数字，如果发放完了再补充申请。
Mr Hu, a senior financial expert at Alipay, said the team could only "blind shoot" a budget figure if it ran out of applications.
为了节省医护人员的操作成本，产品经理许卫杰提出了最简化领取和「无接触理赔」的产品方案。
In order to save the operation cost of medical staff, product manager Xu Weijie put forward the most simplified claim and "no contact claims" product proposal.
医生只需在支付宝里点击确认领取，支付宝的实名体系自动登记、核实领取人身份信息。
The doctor only needs to click on the confirmation receipt in pay treasure, pay treasure's real name system to register automatically, verifies the recipient's identity information.
保障金申请的所有环节可在支付宝内完成，无需提交纸质资料，更无需接触支付宝的工作人员。
All aspects of the application can be completed in pay treasure, do not need to submit paper materials, not to mention contact pay treasure staff.
当许卫杰在湖州设计产品方案，徐海军在杭州分析数据的时候，支付宝的视觉设计师金晶在湖南邵阳的家里设计产品页面。
When Xu Wei-jie designed the product plan in Huzhou and Xu analyzed the data in Hangzhou, Jin Jing, the visual designer of Zhifu, designed the product page in Shaoyang, Hunan.
「一般情况下，交互都是在需求确认后开始做，而视觉则是在交互确认后开干的。
"In general, interaction starts after requirements are confirmed and vision starts after cross-validation.
这次是一边定需求一边定交互，视觉也同步开始设计。
This time the interaction is set while the requirements are set and the visual design is synchronized.
」感谢与质疑保险产品的链条比较长，一般一个有影响力的保险产品，从立项、评估、精算、理赔服务和风控体系搭建，至少需要半个月或一个月的时间。
Thanks to the longer chain of questioning insurance products, an influential insurance product typically takes at least half a month or a month to set up from project establishment, appraisal, actuarial, claims-settlement services and wind-control systems.
而支付宝的医护人员保障项目，从立项到上线仅用了13个小时。
And pay treasure's medical personnel safeguard project, from the establishment of the project to go online in only 13 hours.
13个小时后，大年初三的凌晨2点，产品发布上线了。
13 hours later, on the third day of the New Year at 2 a.m., the product released on line.
早上10点多，消息在医生圈子里传开。
It was past ten in the morning, and the news spread through the medical community.
1个小时，1万人领取；4个小时，10万人领取。
One hour, 10,000 people receive it; four hours, 100,000 receive it.
许卫杰看着后台直线上升的领取人数，知道这个产品「成了」。
Xu Weijie looked at the backstage straight up the number of recipients, know this product "become."
申请保障金、咨询、感谢的电话也涌进了支付宝的客服热线。
Calls for money, advice and gratitude also poured into Alipay's customer service line.
河南省信阳市潢川县人民医院重症监护室的张医生，传来了一张他在病房工作的照片，并且留言道：「在一线，很苦，很累。
Dr. Zhang from the intensive care unit of Yokohama Chuan County People's Hospital in Xinyang, Henan Province, sent a picture of him working in the ward, saying, "It's very hard, very tired.
谢谢你们在我们医护人员最艰难困苦的奋战中，为我们提供的一份保障。
Thank you for providing us with a guarantee in the most arduous battle of our medical staff.
」张医生给支付宝客服发来的工作照国家卫健委的数据显示，2019年我国执业医生、注册护士人数为770万人。
The number of medical practitioners and registered nurses in the country was 7.7 million in 2019, according to figures from the National Institutes of Health.
但是，本次在一线参与疫情防护的医护人员暂未有统计数据。
However, no statistics are available for the first-line health care workers involved in the epidemic.
三天后，在支付宝上领取保障的医护人员数量超过了100万。
Three days later, more than a million health-care workers were receiving coverage on PayPal.
「希望每一位医护人员都能平安回到家人身边，永远用不上这份保障。
"I hope that every health care worker can safely return to his family, never need this protection.
」产品上线后，尹铭在社交平台上发了这么一段话。
"After the product went online, Yin made this comment on a social networking platform.
质疑的声音也出现了。
There were voices of doubt.
由于本次疫情主要采取定点集中收治，所以医护人员保障只免费赠送给全国二级以上公立医院的医护人员。
Because this epidemic mainly adopts the fixed-point centralization treatment, the medical personnel guarantee only to give free of charge to the country's public hospitals above level 2 medical personnel.
「难道我们基层医护人员不配拥有这份保障吗？」微博上，一位来自上海社区卫生服务中心的医生发出了这样的质疑。
"Aren't our primary care workers worthy of the protection?" a doctor from the Shanghai Community Health Service Center on Weibo questioned.
也有不少网友希望将村镇医院医护人员、技师等纳入保障范围。
Many netizens also hope to bring village hospital medical staff, technicians into the scope of protection.
也有热心媒体发出倡议：接下来将进入春运返程高峰，支付宝能不能把高铁工作人员、边境检疫人员也纳入保障？也有医护人员的家属不能理解这个产品，在朋友圈情绪激动。
There are also enthusiastic media initiatives: the next will enter the Spring Transportation back to peak, pay Bao can be high-speed rail workers, border quarantine personnel also included in the protection? Some medical staff's family members can not understand the product, in friends and emotional circles.
严峻的疫情形势下，这些声音让项目组的人清醒地认识到，一个项目，一个公司的能力是有限的。
In the face of a severe epidemic, these voices are a sobering reminder to the project team that a project, a company, has limited capacity.
他们只能量力而行，优先保障风险最高、最需要保障的群体。
They can only do what they can and prioritize the groups that are most at risk and in need of protection.
更大的挑战在于，截至2月5日，全国新冠肺炎确诊病例28018例，已经是2003年SARS的5倍，也远超项目组当初的预测。
A bigger challenge is that, as of February 5, 28,018 new cases of pneumonia nationwide had been confirmed, five times the number reported in 2003, and far more than the project group had originally predicted.
并且，疫情拐点还未出现。
And the inflection point of the epidemic has yet to emerge.
支付宝这个团队的故事，只是这个春节里很多互联网公司团队的一个缩影。
Pay treasure this the story of the team, just this Spring Festival many Internet company team epitomizes.
在各地采购医疗物资的阿里员工、为武汉医院做饭送饭的盒马厨师，义务接送医生护士上下班的滴滴司机，坚持送餐的外卖小哥……他们都在为疫情而忙碌奔走，在这场疫情的洪流里做着自己的努力。
Ali employees who buy medical supplies everywhere, box horse chefs who cook meals for Wuhan hospitals, drip drivers who volunteer to take doctors and nurses to and from work, and take-out brothers who insist on delivering meals... they are all busy fighting the epidemic and doing their part in the ravages of the epidemic.
也因为他们的努力，人们被疫情打破的生活多了一些便利和安全感。
As a result of their efforts, people have been affected by the outbreak of life to a little more convenience and security.
期待疫情早日结束。
Expect an early end to the epidemic.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
和疫情一线的医生聊的越多，就越尊重他们。
The more you talk to doctors on the front lines of the epidemic, the more you respect them.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "和疫情一线的医生聊的越多，就越尊重他们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; the more you talk to a doctor at the forefront of the epidemic, the more you respect & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一群普通人，在这场疫情的洪流里做着自己的努力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a group of ordinary people who did their part in the ravages of the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
