专访王庆：疫情是典型事件型冲击，不影响中长期轨迹|巴伦投资家。
Interview with Wang Qinghe: The epidemic is a typical incident type of impact that does not affect & nbsp; medium- and long-term trajectory & # 124; barone investors.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 巴伦。
The following article comes from Barents.
Author 张晓添。
Author Zhang Xiaotiao.
巴伦。
Baron.
中国最具影响力的财经新闻媒体《财经》携手道琼斯媒体集团，引入百年历史的《巴伦》（Barron's）独家内容，打造涵盖全球金融信息、市场动态、行业分析、公司研究及理财顾问评估的全球投资平台。
China's most influential financial news media, Caijing, teamed up with Dow Jones Media Group to introduce the 100-year-old Barron & amp; apos; s exclusive content to create a global investment platform that covers global financial information, market dynamics, industry analysis, corporate research and financial advisory assessments.
。
.
资本市场关注的是“变化的变化”，即二阶导数，所以资本市场认为疫情影响的拐点已经出现了文 |《巴伦》中国撰稿人张晓添编辑 | 康娟进入2月中旬，新型冠状病毒引发的疫情正在从爆发期进入平稳期。
Capital markets are focused on "changing" or second-order derivatives, so the inflection point at which capital markets view the impact of the epidemic has emerged. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
国内外资本市场从回调到反弹，基本走完了一个“V”字型行情。
Domestic and foreign capital markets from callback to rebound, basically went through a "V" type of market.
敏锐的投资者开始淡化风险，冷静观察疫情对经济各个领域的影响及持续时间，试图找到买入机遇。
Sharp investors began to play down risk, calmly observe the impact of the epidemic on all sectors of the economy and duration, trying to find buying opportunities.
2月12日，重阳投资总裁王庆博士接受《巴伦》中国专访，通过电话分享了他对当前形势下资本市场的看法。
On February 12, Dr. Wang Qing, president of Chongqing Investment, gave an interview with Barone China and shared his views on the capital market under the current situation by telephone.
王庆拥有美国马里兰大学经济学博士学位，在金融行业有着丰富的履历。
Wang has a doctorate in economics from the University of Maryland and a strong track record in the financial industry.
1999年，他加入国际货币基金组织（IMF）担任经济学家。
In 1999, he joined the International Monetary Fund as an economist.
2005年起，王庆先后担任美国银行大中华区经济研究和投资策略主管、摩根士丹利大中华区董事总经理及首席经济学家、中国国际金融有限公司董事总经理，投资银行部执行负责人。
Since 2005, Mr. Wang has been head of economic research and investment strategy for Greater China for Bank of America, managing director and chief economist for Greater China for Morgan Stanley, managing director of China International Finance Limited and executive director of investment banking.
于2013年4月加入重阳投资。
Joined Chung Yeung Investment in April 2013.
重阳投资是中国国内最大的阳光私募基金之一，管理资产规模逾两百亿人民币。
Chong Yang is one of China's largest private equity funds, with more than Rmb20bn in assets under management.
王庆表示，面对疫情冲击，投资者最重要的是要继续保持对于中长期趋势的观察。
Mr Wang said it was important for investors to keep an eye on medium- and long-term trends in the face of the epidemic.
他说，投资者的“初心”是通过参与市场投资，从中国中长期经济增长和经济转型中受益。
He said investors' "starting point" was to benefit from China's medium- and long-term economic growth and transformation by participating in market investments.
短期的市场冲击，其实是为进入市场创造了比较好的时间窗口。
Short-term market shocks, in fact, to enter the market to create a better window of time.
对于A股投资者，王庆提醒说，即使没有疫情的冲击，中国股票市场的整体估值水平仍处在一个偏低的区域，也就是明显处在历史平均估值水平之下。
For A-share investors, Mr. Wang cautioned that even without the impact of the epidemic, China's stock market as a whole is still valued at a low level, which is clearly below the historical average.
与此同时，港股相对A股的动态估值也几乎处在历史最低位。
At the same time, Hong Kong stocks relative to A-share dynamic valuation is almost at an all-time low.
在这个基础上，疫情的冲击实际上使A股短期估值水平变得更低了。
On this basis, the impact of the epidemic has actually made the A-share short-term valuation level even lower.
对于A股近两周的反弹，王庆认为，目前的反弹是在最低估值水平的基础上产生的，股市估值仍比年初水平要低。
With A-shares rebounding in the past two weeks, Wang believes the current rebound is based on the lowest valuations, which are still lower than at the beginning of the year.
“总体上，我认为整体估值水平的下行空间是比较小的，反而上行空间是打开的。
"Overall, I think the overall valuation level of the downward space is relatively small, on the contrary, the upward space is open.
”他说。
'he said.
以下是采访实录《巴伦》中国：目前许多机构都在关注疫情对经济增长的冲击，甚至有人担心这会对其他地区产生溢出性影响。
The following is the interview with Barents China: Many organizations are concerned about the impact of the epidemic on economic growth, and some fear that it may have spillover effects on other regions.
您的总体判断是什么？王庆：疫情对增长肯定是有影响，这毫无疑问。
What is your overall judgementWang Qing: There is no doubt that the epidemic has an impact on growth.
疫情的影响在我们身边随处可见。
The impact of the epidemic is visible around us.
但关键是影响多大，以及持续多长时间。
But what matters is how much and for how long.
我们更关心影响持续多长时间，而非短期内影响多大。
We care more about how long the impact lasts than how much in the short term.
因为影响多大，在短期内很难评估。
Because of its impact, it is difficult to assess in the short term.
可以肯定的是，在相关的防控政策措施结束后，经济活动反弹也会很强劲，这是可以期待的。
To be sure, the rebound in economic activity is also expected to be strong after the end of the relevant control and policy measures.
目前来看，我们预计一季度的环比增速很可能是负的。
For now, we expect the ring growth rate to be negative in the first quarter.
问题在于环比负增长多少。
The question is how much negative ring ratio.
如果是同比增速的话，可能会降到4%左右，甚至可能会低于4%。
If growth is year-on-year, it could fall to about 4%, or perhaps below 4%.
虽然环比是负增长，但同比还是正增长，因为有翘尾效应。
Although the ring ratio is negative, but also positive year-on-year growth, because of the warping effect.
但实际上，疫情带来的更多可能是行业层面的影响。
In reality, however, the epidemic is more likely to be at the industry level.
防控疫情措施对于有些行业影响是比较大的，比如交通运输、餐饮、零售、住宿等。
Prevention and control of the epidemic for some industries are relatively large impact, such as transport, catering, retail, accommodation, etc.
坦率说，我觉得目前很难进行量化评估，当我们观察疫情对资本市场的影响时尤为如此。
Frankly, I find it difficult to make a quantitative assessment right now, especially when we look at the impact of the epidemic on capital markets.
资本市场更关心的是这种影响持续时间的长短，而不是短期的冲击有多大。
Capital markets are more concerned with the duration of the impact than with the short-term impact.
《巴伦》中国：就在疫情发酵前不久，各大机构都发布了2020年的资产走势展望，其中当然也包括重阳投资。
BARREN (Reuters) - Shortly before the outbreak began, major institutions issued asset outlook for 2020, including, of course, Chong Yang investment.
疫情发展到目前这个阶段，有没有改变您最初的展望？王庆：从大的方面来讲是没有改变的。
Is there any change in your initial outlook at this stage of the epidemic? Wang Qing: In a big way, it has not changed.
从历史的经验和理论的指引来看，疫情冲击是典型的事件型冲击，不影响资本市场的中长期运行轨迹，它只是短期的扰动。
From the historical experience and theoretical guidance, the epidemic impact is a typical event-type impact, does not affect the capital market in the medium and long-term track, it is only a short-term disturbance.
我们当时提出的策略观点是基于综合分析，是对全年走势的判断，也是基于经济周期、政策周期等基本面因素所做的判断。
The strategic view we put forward at that time was based on a comprehensive analysis, a judgment of year-round trends and a judgment based on fundamental factors such as economic cycles and policy cycles.
目前疫情构成了短期的扰动，但不影响整体的趋势。
The current outbreak constitutes a short-term disturbance, but does not affect the overall trend.
具体来讲，疫情对经济周期的扰动，我认为无非是影响经济的拐点。
Specifically, the epidemic on the economic cycle of disturbance, I think nothing more than the impact of the economic inflection point.
本来我们预判经济将是一个企稳、逐渐复苏的过程，那么它就有一个拐点。
If we had predicted that the economy would be a steady, gradual recovery, it would have had an inflection point.
疫情冲击可能会使这个拐点推迟一两个月、或两三个月。
The impact of the outbreak could delay the inflection point by a month or two or three months.
另外一点是政策的周期，也就是逆周期调节力度逐渐加大的过程。
Another is the policy cycle, which is the gradual increase in countercyclical forces.
疫情对政策周期的冲击，使逆周期调节的力度和节奏会提前加大加快。
The impact of the epidemic on the policy cycle will accelerate the intensity and rhythm of counter-cyclical regulation ahead of time.
但是，疫情不改变经济整体周期运行的态势和政策的态势。
However, the epidemic does not alter the dynamics and policy dynamics of the overall economic cycle.
《巴伦》中国：您提到的短期扰动，是基于疫情持续多长时间的一个判断？有没有比较具体的指标？王庆：对经济的影响，取决于实际复工的速度。
Baaren China: The short-term disturbance you mentioned is a judgment based on how long the outbreak has lasted? Are there any specific indicators? Wang Qing: The impact on the economy depends on the actual rate of resumption of work.
而复工的速度、节奏同时又受疫情整体态势的影响。
The speed and tempo of returning to work are also affected by the overall situation of the epidemic.
我们现在实际关注的，如果具体到数字上来说，就是每天发布的相关疫情数据，包括武汉的数据、湖北的数据，以及湖北以外的数据；包括新增确诊病例数量、新增疑似病例的数量等等。
What we are really concerned about now, if only in numerical terms, is the relevant epidemic data released every day, including Wuhan data, Hubei data and data from outside Hubei, including the number of newly confirmed cases, the number of new suspected cases, etc.
基于这些数据的判断，至少从确诊数据和疑似数据上来讲，湖北以外地区有个明显的拐点，新增病例是处在每天逐渐下降的趋势。
Based on these data, there is an obvious inflection point outside Hubei at least in terms of confirmed data and suspected data.
虽然实际的疫情数量还在增加，但增加的速度是减缓的。
While the actual number of outbreaks is increasing, the rate of increase is slowing.
我区分这两个概念，是因为疫情对实体经济影响和对资本市场的影响是不一样的。
I distinguish between these two concepts because the impact of the epidemic on the real economy is different from that on capital markets.
资本市场关注的是“变化的变化”，即二阶导数，所以资本市场认为疫情影响的拐点已经出现了。
Capital markets focus on "changing" or second-order derivatives, so the inflection point on which capital markets view the epidemic's impact has emerged.
《巴伦》中国：过去两周，我们看到一些关键市场都出现了先回调、后反弹的趋势。
BARREN (Reuters) - Over the past two weeks, we have seen a downward trend in some key markets.
经历了一个完整的V字型走势之后，金融市场是否已充分消化了疫情相关的风险？王庆：我觉得资本市场对疫情相关风险的消化有两个层次。
After a complete V-shaped trend, have financial markets fully absorbed the risks associated with the outbreak? Wang Qing: I think there are two levels of risk digestion in capital markets.
一个是由于疫情冲击所产生的巨大不确定性，另一个是疫情对经济真正的影响、对业绩的影响、对经济增速的影响。
One is the enormous uncertainty created by the epidemic's impact, the other is the real impact of the epidemic on the economy, the impact on performance and the impact on economic growth.
应该说，疫情爆发给经济和市场造成的巨大不确定性，市场对于这最坏的一部分已经消化完成了。
It is fair to say that the market has absorbed the worst of the enormous economic and market uncertainty created by the outbreak.
对资本市场来讲，体现为它的估值波动，这个冲击已经过去了。
For capital markets, reflected in the volatility of their valuations, the shock is over.
另一部分冲击是对实体经济、对上市公司业绩实实在在的冲击，但还是要区分短期冲击的程度和持续时间。
Another part of the shock is a real impact on the real economy and on the performance of listed companies, but there is a need to distinguish between the magnitude and duration of short-term shocks.
我觉得从资本市场层面上来看，尤其是股市，它更在意疫情冲击时间而非冲击程度。
I think in terms of the capital market, especially the stock market, it is more concerned with the timing of the outbreak than with the magnitude of the shock.
尽管疫情短期可能影响很大，但由于股票市场，即所谓的权益，是通过对上市公司未来永续现金流的折现来估值的，所以，即使短期影响很大，只要持续时间不长，对有核心竞争力的公司创造未来永续现金流能力的影响都是很小的。
Although the epidemic may be significant in the short term, because the stock market, the so-called equity, is valued by discounting the future sustainable cash flows of listed companies, the short-term impact, even if short-term, will have little impact on the ability of companies with core competitiveness to generate sustainable cash flows in the future.
因此，疫情对当前资产价格的影响是短暂的和有限的。
As a result, the impact of the epidemic on current asset prices is short-lived and limited.
《巴伦》中国：此次疫情之后，政府做出了迅速的反应，一些宽松政策已经落地。
BARREN (Jan. 23 - Aug. 22) China: After the outbreak, the government reacted quickly, and some easing policies were already on the ground.
您如何看待政策宽松的趋势？王庆：假如我们先抛开疫情不看的话，整个政策大体的周期是这样的：2017年、2018年以及2019年上半年，我们经历了一个明显的信用周期下行过程，大背景是“去杠杆”，防范化解金融风险。
What do you think about the trend of policy laxity? Wang Qing: If we put aside the epidemic first, the overall policy cycle is as follows: 2017, 2018, and the first half of 2019, we are going through a clear credit cycle downward, with "deleveraging" in the background to prevent and defuse financial risks.
实际上，信用周期的拐点应该是在2019年的一季度末，集中体现在社会融资增速已经开始企稳。
In fact, the inflection point of the credit cycle should be at the end of the first quarter of 2019, which means that the growth rate of social financing has begun to stabilize.
这背后实际上是政策的调整，从2018年底、2019年初开始逐渐采取逆周期调节政策。
This is in fact behind the adjustment of policies, starting from the end of 2018, early 2019 to gradually adopt countercyclical adjustment policies.
这首先体现在金融数据上，即信贷增速、社会融资增速。
This is reflected in the first financial data, that is, credit growth, social financing growth rate.
政策效果开始逐渐体现出来，相关政策的发力程度也在加强。
Policy effectiveness is beginning to manifest itself, and the strength of related policies is increasing.
我相信到2020年，逆周期调节政策会继续延续。
I believe that the policy of countercyclical adjustment will continue until 2020.
首先体现在金融数据、信用周期数据的企稳，出现拐点，甚至反弹。
First of all, the financial data, credit cycle data stabilization, inflection point, or even rebound.
后续会体现在实体经济的数据中。
The follow-up will be reflected in the real economy data.
这个背景下出现了疫情的爆发，那么它对刚才提到的政策会有什么影响？我认为疫情会使逆周期调节政策的原有节奏加快，会促使一些政策提前释放。
What is the impact of the outbreak on the policies just mentioned? I think the epidemic will accelerate the pace of counter-cyclical adjustment and prompt some policies to be released early.
有一些措施我们已经看到了，包括流动性的注入、逆回购利率的下调，特别国债的额度提前下达等等。
There are a number of measures that we have seen, including liquidity injections, reductions in reverse repurchase rates, and early issuance of special government bonds.
这些政策对投资者风险偏好的提升有帮助，自然也对股票市场估值有帮助。
These policies helped investors to improve their risk appetite and, of course, contributed to stock market valuations.
比如说，在这一背景下出现了一个很重要的变化：10年期国债收益率出现了明显的下行触及近年来的新低。
In this context, for example, there has been a significant change: 10-year Treasury yields have fallen sharply to new lows in recent years.
显然，这对股票市场估值有很好的支撑作用。
Obviously, this is a good support for stock market valuations.
《巴伦》中国：一些投资者可能会疑惑，是否有必要配置一些避险资产，比如说债券或者黄金。
BARREN (Reuters) - Some investors may be wondering if it is necessary to have some hedging assets, such as bonds or gold.
您觉得到目前阶段，投资者有必要采取这类避险操作吗？王庆：我觉得必要性不大。
Do you think it is necessary for investors to take such safe operation at this stage? Wang Qing: I don't think it is necessary.
黄金这类资产虽然具有避险功能，但是在出现明显的尾部风险，即“黑天鹅”事件的过程中才会体现的。
Although gold and other assets have the function of hedging, but in the emergence of a clear tail risk, that is, the "black swan" event will reflect.
也就是说，存在巨大的不确定性的情况下，黄金才会有明显的避险功能。
In other words, there is a great deal of uncertainty, gold will have a significant hedging function.
现在，可以说这种不确定性已大大降低了，所以现在去做避险操作有点晚，必要性也不大了。
Now, it can be said that this uncertainty has been greatly reduced, so it is a little late and not necessary to do the safe-haven operation now.
《巴伦》中国：您怎么判断当前A股的估值水平？您如何看待A股大幅回调之后的持续反弹？王庆：整体来看，即使没有疫情的冲击，中国股票市场的总体估值水平仍处在一个偏低的区域。
Ball China: How do you judge the current A-share valuation level? How do you view the continued rebound after the A-share correction? Wang Qing: Overall, even without the impact of the epidemic, the overall valuation level of the Chinese stock market is still in a low region.
所谓偏低区域，就是它明显处在历史平均估值水平之下。
The so-called low area is clearly below the historical average valuation level.
第二，我们如果看港股的话——我指的是H股，即在香港上市的中国大陆公司——港股相对A股的估值也几乎处在历史最低位。
Second, if we look at Hong Kong stocks - I mean Hong Kong shares, mainland Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong - they are also valued at near-record lows relative to A-shares.
综合两点来看，A股本身在历史平均估值水平之下，H股相对A股的折价率也在几乎历史最低水平。
Taken together, A shares themselves are below historical averages, and H-shares are trading at near-record lows relative to A-shares.
所以，整体市场是以一个相对低的估值水平进入2020年的。
So the overall market entered 2020 at a relatively low valuation level.
在这个基础上，此次疫情的冲击实际上使A股短期估值水平变得更低了。
On that basis, the impact of the epidemic has actually made the A-share short-term valuation level even lower.
目前出现的反弹，是在最低估值水平基础上产生的，但估值仍比年初水平要低。
The current rebound was based on the lowest valuation level, but the valuation was still lower than at the beginning of the year.
所以，我认为整体估值水平的下行空间是比较小的，反而上行空间是打开的。
Therefore, I think the overall valuation level of the downward space is relatively small, on the contrary, the upward space is open.
《巴伦》中国：您提到经济活动强劲反弹的预期趋势。
Ball China: You mentioned the expected trend of a strong rebound in economic activity.
在这个反弹当中，A股和港股的哪些板块会随之明显回升？王庆：我们一直认为，随着经济景气的改善，对经济景气比较敏感的行业会受益。
In the midst of this rebound, which segments of A-shares and Hong Kong stocks will rebound noticeablyWang Qing: We have always believed that as the economic climate improves, industries that are more sensitive to the economic climate will benefit.
包括一些传统行业、比如金融、地产和传统制造业，甚至一些能源行业都应该是会受益的。
Some traditional industries, such as finance, real estate and traditional manufacturing, and even some energy industries, should benefit.
这一点跟2019年和2018年是不一样的，那两年整个经济景气下行，所以跟经济景气相关的行业是受到压制的。
This is not the same as in 2019 or 2018, when the economy was in a downturn, so sectors associated with the boom were depressed.
相反，随着经济景气回暖，这些行业应该是受益的。
On the contrary, these industries should benefit as the economy recovers.
《巴伦》中国：我们注意到，随着金融开放力度加大，中国内地债券市场也越来越受到关注。
BARREN (BARREN) China: We note that as financial openness intensifies, so does the domestic bond market.
您如何看待国内债券市场的配置价值？王庆：对于不同类型投资者来说，国内债券的投资价值是不一样的。
What do you think of the allocation value of the domestic bond market? Wang Qing: For different types of investors, the investment value of domestic bonds is different.
对于国际投资者来讲，中国债券的投资价值、甚至中长期配置价值都是很高的，因为他们的比较基准是不一样的。
For international investors, the investment value, and even the medium-to-long-term allocative value, of Chinese bonds is high, because their comparative benchmarks are different.
国际投资者是在国际范围内寻找有价值的投资资产。
International investors are looking for valuable investment assets at the international level.
在国际环境下，低负利率蔓延的情况没有缓解，从而就彰显了中国债券市场的投资价值，毕竟我们的收益率是不错的。
In the international environment, the spread of low negative interest rates has not abated, thus highlighting the value of Chinese bond market investments, after all our yield is good.
再加上人民币汇率的稳定，对于这些寻求比较确定性的、注重债券收益率的长期国际投资者而言，中国债券是有价值的。
Coupled with the stability of the RMB exchange rate, Chinese bonds are valuable to these long-term international investors who seek more certainty and focus on bond yields.
在金融开放背景下，他们的兴趣会一直保持下去。
Their interest will continue in the context of financial openness.
对于国内投资者来讲，尤其是那些可以在股和债之间自由选择的投资者，应该说股票市场的投资价值要明显优于债券的投资价值。
For domestic investors, especially those who can freely choose between stocks and debt, it should be said that the value of the stock market is significantly better than the investment value of the bonds.
我们重阳也有宏观大类资产配置模型，我们模型的分析结论也表明，当前股票市场相对债券市场的投资价值是非常突出的。
We also have macroscopic asset allocation model in Chongqing. The conclusion of our model also shows that the current stock market investment value relative to bond market is very prominent.
也就是说，如果两边都可以配置的话，当前股票投资价值要优于债券的投资价值。
That is, if both sides are configurable, the current value of a stock investment is better than the investment value of a bond.
《巴伦》中国：关于房地产市场，去年房地产投资保持了稳健态势，而部分城市价格出现小幅调整。
Barents China: With regard to the real estate market, real estate investment remained steady over the past year, with modest price adjustments in some cities.
您如何分析此次疫情对房地产市场的影响？王庆：疫情对于房地产的短期影响，最直接的体现在于：由于经济活动不活跃，多数城市房地产销售量基本上是零成交。
How do you analyze the impact of the epidemic on the real estate market? Wang Qing: The short-term impact of the epidemic on real estate, the most direct reflection of the economic inactivity, most urban real estate sales are basically zero transactions.
这是一个非常不正常的现象。
This is a very abnormal phenomenon.
短期冲击肯定会有，但是疫情好转以后，中长期又会有什么影响？我觉得从整体上来看，可以说中国房地产市场最好的时期已经过去了，目前应该进入缓慢增长的阶段，在“房住不炒”这样一个大的政策基调下尤其如此。
Short-term shocks are bound to occur, but what will happen in the medium to long term after the epidemic improves? I think the best part of China's housing market, taken as a whole, is over, and it is time to move into a period of slow growth, especially in a broader policy context of "no housing, no fire."
但另一方面，房地产市场的大周期内仍存在波段性的小周期。
On the other hand, there are still small cycles in the real estate market.
结合政府逆周期调节政策和去杠杆政策的节奏，我认为从短期来看，房地产市场最坏的时期应该已经过去。
Given the pace of government countercyclical adjustment and deleveraging, I think the worst of the housing market should be over in the short run.
所以我认为，随着疫情冲击告一段落，房地产市场在短期内可能会有比较明显的恢复性表现，尤其是一二线城市。
So I think, with the epidemic over, the real estate market may have relatively obvious recovery performance in the short term, especially in the first and second-tier cities.
《巴伦》中国：最新公布的通货膨胀数据显示，1月消费者价格指数（CPI）同比增幅进一步上升至5.4%，但国内外市场似乎都没有理会这些数据。
BARREN (Reuters) - China's consumer price index (CPI) rose further to 5.4% YoY in January, according to the latest inflation data, but the domestic and foreign markets seem to ignore the data.
您是如何看待当前国内通胀走势的？王庆：首先，仅凭CPI来看待通货膨胀，这不是一个好的方法。
How do you feel about the current trend of domestic inflation? Wang Qing: First of all, the CPI alone is not a good way to look at inflation.
通胀和CPI不是一个概念。
Inflation and CPI are not a concept.
通胀是价格总体水平的持续上涨。
Inflation is a steady rise in the overall price level.
我们在实践中使用CPI，是因为它正常情况下是一个能够反映价格水平持续上涨的指标。
We use CPI in practice because it is normally an indicator of a sustained rise in price levels.
但是，我们知道本轮CPI的上涨主要是因为猪肉价格一次性上涨引起的。
However, we know that the current CPI rally is mainly due to a one-off rise in pork prices.
那严格意义上来讲，这不能叫做通货膨胀。
That, strictly speaking, cannot be called inflation.
这也是为什么CPI这么高的情况下，反而货币政策是边际放松的。
That is why, with CPI so high, monetary policy has become marginal.
这说明央行层面对这个问题也有非常清醒的认识。
This shows that the central bank level also has a very clear understanding of this issue.
当然，如果通货膨胀真的抬升，对资产价格的影响当然是很不利的，对债券、股票都是如此。
Of course, if inflation does rise, the impact on asset prices will certainly be negative, both for bonds and stocks.
但根据目前情况综合判断，我觉得这个风险是很小的。
But judging by the overall situation, I think the risk is very small.
《巴伦》中国：就当前这种情况，您能否给投资者一些忠告？此类情况下投资者最应该做什么？王庆：参与投资最重要是“不忘初心”。
China: Can you give some advice to investors in the current situation? What should investors do most in such a situation? Wang Qing: The most important thing about participating in an investment is not to forget the first mind.
基于资产配置的角度，如果你参与投资是为了从中国中长期经济增长和经济转型中受益的话，这个“初心”不能改变。
From an asset allocation perspective, if you're investing to benefit from China's medium- and long-term economic growth and transformation, the "beginner's heart" cannot be changed.
虽然存在短期的市场冲击，但这其实会为进入市场创造比较好的时间窗口。
Although there is a short-term market shock, but this will actually create a better time window into the market.
《巴伦》中国：谢谢您的分享。
Barents China: Thank you for sharing.
（本文作者为《巴伦》中国撰稿人张晓添，实习生张愉康对本文亦有贡献。
(The writer is Zhang Xiaotian, a Chinese writer for Barents, to whom Zhang Youkang, an intern, also contributed.
）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the outbreak, see below: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访王庆：疫情是典型事件型冲击，不影响中长期轨迹|巴伦投资家。
Interview with Wang Qinghe: The epidemic is a typical incident type of impact that does not affect & nbsp; medium- and long-term trajectory & # 124; barone investors.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访王庆：疫情是典型事件型冲击，不影响中长期轨迹|巴伦投资家";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "资本市场关注的是“变化的变化”，即二阶导数，所以资本市场认为疫情影响的拐点已经出现了";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Capital markets are concerned with "changing change," or second-order derivatives, so capital markets believe that it has at least & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
