新能源项目建设推迟，业内称长期影响不大。
Construction of new energy projects delayed, the industry said the long-term impact is small.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 徐沛宇。
Author Xu Pei-woo.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
受疫情影响，风电、光伏项目建设时间有所推迟。
The construction of wind power and photovoltaic projects has been delayed by the epidemic.
那些希望赶上补贴末班车的风电、光伏企业，将在疫情结束后面临更紧迫的施工周期文|《财经》记者徐沛宇编辑 |马克风电、光伏项目建设受疫情影响有所推迟，但 业内人士对疫后恢复表示乐观。
Wind and photovoltaic companies hoping to catch up with last-minute subsidies will face a more pressing construction cycle after the epidemic ends. Caijing reporter Xu Pei-yu has delayed construction of the Mark Wind Power and Photovoltaic projects.
今年是风光发电进入平价时代前的最后一年。
This year is the last year before the era of power generation parity.
为了赶上补贴的末班车，诸多项目都计划在今年完工并网。
Many projects are scheduled to be completed and connected this year in order to catch the last subsidized bus.
突如其来的疫情，让风电、光伏企业抢工期、抢生产的节奏被迫放缓。
Sudden epidemic, so that wind power, photovoltaic enterprises to seize the construction period, the rhythm of production had to slow down.
国家发改委规定，2018年底前核准的陆上风电项目，2020年底前仍未完成并网的，国家不再补贴。
The National Development and Reform Commission has stipulated that land-based wind power projects approved before the end of 2018 that have not been connected to the network by the end of 2020 shall no longer be subsidized by the State.
《财经》记者从多家头部风电制造企业了解到，企业总部和各行政职能部门都已恢复上班，生产工厂和项目建设工地仍未有明确的复工时间。
"Caijing" reporters from a number of wind power manufacturers understand that the enterprise headquarters and various administrative functions have been restored to work, production plants and project construction sites have not yet been clear resumption of work.
一位中型风电制造企业中层对《财经》记者表示，风电业主现在要求项目建设都暂缓开工，具体开工时间待定。
A medium-sized wind power manufacturer told Caijing that wind power owners are now demanding that construction on the project be put on hold for a time to be determined.
不过，疫情严重的湖北没有多少风电设备生产工厂，预计各地风电制造企业都能很快恢复生产。
However, in Hubei, where the epidemic is severe, there are few wind power plants, and it is expected that wind power manufacturers everywhere will soon resume production.
国电集团公司原副总经理、龙源电力原总经理谢长军对风电行业的复工前景表示乐观。
Xie Changjun, former deputy general manager of Guodian Group and former general manager of Longyuan Power, expressed optimism about the prospect of resuming work in the wind power industry.
谢长军对《财经》记者说，目前风电相关的央企、国企都在按要求恢复工作，但整个产业链完全恢复正常还有难度，很多风电制造企业，尤其是民营企业现在由于人工、物流等因素，还难以完全开工。
At present, the state-owned enterprises and enterprises related to wind power are resuming their work as required, but it is still difficult for the entire industrial chain to return to normal, and many wind power producers, especially private enterprises, are having difficulty fully starting work because of labor and logistics factors, he told Caijing.
谢长军表示，按照目前的疫情形势，风电项目建设肯定会受影响。
Xie Changjun said, according to the current epidemic situation, wind power project construction will certainly be affected.
一季度是传统淡季，风电建设往往从二季度才开始发力，而相关物料的生产和安排几乎都是半年前就开始有所准备，所以如果全国的疫情能在两三周内得到控制，那么对今年全国风电建设的影响不会超过20%。
The first quarter is a traditional off-season, wind power construction often starts from the second quarter, and the production and arrangement of related materials almost half a year ago, so if the national epidemic can be brought under control within two or three weeks, the impact on national wind construction this year will not exceed 20%.
对于陆上风电项目进入补贴目录的最后时间节点，有业内人士认为，受疫情影响，应该适当延长项目建成的时间节点。
For the land wind power project into the final time of the subsidized catalogue, the industry believes that due to the impact of the epidemic, the project should be appropriate to extend the completion of the time node.
谢长军说，可能会有一些项目难以在今年年底的补贴时间节点内完工，但是政策应该保持稳定，目前看来时间节点还没有延长的必要。
There may be some projects that will be difficult to complete by the end of this year, Mr. Xie said, but policy should remain stable.
不过，疫情的影响到底会持续多久现在还不清楚，后续还需要观察。
However, it is not clear how long the impact of the outbreak will last, and it remains to be seen.
光伏行业亦有抢装的需求。
There is also a rush in the photovoltaic industry.
2019年全国有5-10GW的光伏项目未按原计划于20年底前并网。
Nationwide, 5-10 GW PV projects were not connected by the end of 20 years, as originally planned.
根据国家能源局的规定，这批项目中，在今年3月31日前并网的，补贴比去年年底降0.01元/千瓦时；6月30日前并网，补贴比去年年底降0.02元/千瓦时。
According to the regulations of the State Energy Administration, subsidies for those connected to the Internet by March 31 fell by 0.01 yuan per kilowatt-hour from the end of last year, and by June 30 by 0.02 yuan per kilowatt-hour.
6月30日之后，则全部取消补贴。
After 30 June, all subsidies will be eliminated.
目前全国各地的光伏项目几乎都处于停工状，大多难以在3月31日之前完成抢装。
Almost all photovoltaic projects across the country are currently in shutdown mode, and most of them will be difficult to complete by 31 March.
业内人士认为，如果疫情能在近期得到控制，对全年的光伏项目建设影响将不会很大。
Industry sources believe that if the epidemic can be controlled in the near future, the impact on the year-round construction of photovoltaic projects will not be significant.
光伏制造业方面，春节期间大约有五六成的工厂停工，业内人士预计这些工厂最快到2月底才可以完全恢复生产。
In the photovoltaic industry, where about 50-60% of factories shut down during the Spring Festival, industry insiders expect full production to resume as early as the end of February.
上游的硅料、单晶硅片生产则基本不受影响，春节期间仍然正常生产。
Upstream silicon, monocrystalline silicon wafer production is basically unaffected, Spring Festival is still normal production.
也有一些未停产的光伏产品生产工厂，如今面临难以满产的难题。
There are also a number of unshut photovoltaic production plants that are now facing problems of full production.
正泰新能源总裁陆川对《财经》记者表示，公司旗下工厂春节期间没有完全停产，现在不存在不能复工的问题，只是工人没有满编，而且由于封路和疫情管控因素，工厂物料和物流资源不足。
Lu Chuan, president of Zhengtai New Energy, told Caijing that the company's factories during the Spring Festival did not completely stop production, there is no problem can not resume work, only workers do not fully staffed, and due to road closures and epidemic control factors, factory materials and logistics resources are insufficient.
国内光伏组件龙头协鑫集成(002506.SZ)董事长罗鑫告诉《财经》记者，公司假期停工的工厂已向属地政府递交复工申请，正待批复。
Pioneer Luo Xin, chairman of the National Photovoltaic Unit's Pioneer Pioneer (002506. SZ), told Caijing that the company's holiday shutdown plant had submitted its application to the territorial government for reinstatement and was awaiting approval.
罗鑫认为，今年一季度，整个光伏行业出货量受疫情影响将大幅下跌，很难有新增光伏电站并网。
Luo Xin believes that the first quarter of this year, the whole photovoltaic industry shipments will be affected by the epidemic will drop significantly, it is difficult to add new photovoltaic power stations connected.
整年来看，此次疫情对光伏行业的影响在于，宏观增长可能会放缓，光伏企业的资金成本增高，光伏装机增长需求放缓。
Throughout the year, the impact of the epidemic on the photovoltaic sector is likely to be a slowdown in macro-growth, higher capital costs for photovoltaic companies and slower demand for photovoltaic growth.
一季度是淡季，对光伏企业的真正挑战是在二季度，各种成本预期可能会上涨的情况下，如何保障生产和安装。
The real challenge for photovoltaic companies in the first quarter is how to safeguard production and installation in the second quarter, when costs are expected to rise.
中国光伏制造业的海外订单现在已占很多企业的半壁江山，协鑫集成的海外业务收入占比就已超过60%。
Overseas orders from China's photovoltaic industry now account for half of many businesses, and Pioneer's overseas revenue accounts for more than 60%.
罗鑫表示，目前海外市场出口受阻，出货时间延后。
Luo Xin said that at present the overseas market export is blocked, shipping time is delayed.
但长期来看，此次疫情对海外订单影响不会很大， 因为海外光伏项目的产品交付、安装周期等方面一般预留时间较为充裕，能支持延迟一段时间交货。
In the long term, however, the impact on overseas orders will not be significant, as overseas photovoltaic projects typically have sufficient lead time to support a delay in delivery.
陆川也表示，由于物流的问题，出口产品只能延迟交付，但合同仍将顺利执行，因为中国光伏企业的产品在全球并没有竞争对手。
Mr. Lu also said exports had to be delayed because of logistical problems, but contracts would still run smoothly because Chinese photovoltaic companies had no global rivals.
对于此次疫情带来的间接影响，罗鑫表示，公司的长远战略会有一些改变，会重新定义供应链体系。
For the indirect impact of the epidemic, Luo Xin said the company's long-term strategy will be changed, will redefine the supply chain system.
在订单需求全球化之后，要更多考虑将供应链也做到全球化，以应对未来可能出现的不可控因素。
In the wake of the globalization of demand for orders, more consideration should be given to globalizing supply chains in response to possible future uncontrolled factors.
协鑫集成已经在越南建设了供应链基地，未来考虑在东南亚增加供应链工厂。
Pioneer Integration has built a supply chain base in Vietnam and will consider adding supply chain factories in Southeast Asia in the future.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新能源项目建设推迟，业内称长期影响不大。
Construction of new energy projects delayed, the industry said the long-term impact is small.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新能源项目建设推迟，业内称长期影响不大";。
var msg _ title = & quot; delayed construction of a new energy project, which the industry says didn't include AT & quot;;
var msg_desc = "受疫情影响，风电、光伏项目建设时间有所推迟。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; construction of wind and photovoltaic projects has been delayed by the epidemic.
那些希望赶上补贴末班车的风电、光伏企业，将在疫情结束后面临更紧迫的施工周期";。
Wind and photovoltaic companies hoping to catch up with last-minute subsidies will face even more pressing construction cycles and calls after the epidemic.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
