从实验室到病房，阻击新冠病毒。
From the lab to the ward, stop the new crown virus.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 孙爱民。
Author Sun Oi-min.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
病毒的溯源、从动物到人的传播路径、人与人间的传播方式，这些研究还在进行中，抗病毒的疫苗和特效药的研发、验证，还只是初现曙光文|《财经》记者 孙爱民 信娜 辛颖编辑|王小谁也不会想到，2019年的最后一天，武汉市卫健委发布的一则“武汉市华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎”的通报，会掀开一场比SARS袭击更多的人的疫情。
The virus's traceability, route of transmission from animal to human, and modes of human-to-human transmission are still under way. No one would have expected that the announcement by Wuhan Health and Rehabilitation Commission on the last day of 2019 of "unidentified pneumonia in the south China seafood market in Wuhan" would open up an epidemic of more people than SARS attacks.
在疫情暴发40多天后，2020年2月11日，世界卫生组织（WHO）宣布将新冠状病毒所引发疾病命名为COVID-19，国际病毒分类委员会则宣布，新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）的正式分类名为SARS-CoV-2，即“严重急性呼吸综合征冠状病毒2”。
More than 40 days after the outbreak, on February 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the new coronavirus-induced disease would be named COVID-19, and the International Commission on the Classification of Virus announced that the official classification of the new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) would be called SARS-CoV-2, or "Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2."
此次疫情与病毒的名称，几经更改，也是科学界对于病毒、疫情的逐渐认知，从“不明”到精准命名。
The epidemic and the name of the virus, changed several times, is also the scientific community of the virus, epidemic gradually, from "unknown" to precise name.
不仅钟南山、李兰娟、高福、曾光等著名医学界人士，就疫情防控频频给出建议。
Not only Zhong Nan Shan, Li Lan Juan, Gao Fu, Zeng Guang and other well-known medical circles, frequently give advice on disease prevention and control.
在镜头之外，更多的中外科研团队进行从零开始科研攻关。
Outside the lens, more and more Chinese and foreign research teams carry out research from scratch.
从病毒的分离、测序，到疫情的溯源；从疾病的诊治、检测工具的研发，到疫苗、特效药的探索，实验室与病房是科学家们的主战场。
From the isolation and sequencing of viruses to the traceability of outbreaks, from the diagnosis and treatment of diseases, the development of detection tools, to the discovery of vaccines and specific drugs, laboratories and wards are the main battleground for scientists.
仅在疫情发生的前30天，全球就有50多篇论文发表，其中20多篇研究来自中国学者。
In the first 30 days of the epidemic alone, more than 50 papers were published worldwide, of which more than 20 were from Chinese scholars.
科学研究从来都是在摸索中曲折前进，难以一蹴而就。
Scientific research has always been in the fumble in the twists and turns forward, difficult to achieve overnight.
病毒的溯源、从动物到人的传播路径、人与人间的传播方式的研究还在进行中，临床诊疗方案标准化还待完善，疫苗、特效药的研发、验证也还只是初现曙光。
The research of virus traceability, animal-to-human transmission path, human-to-human transmission is still in progress, the standardization of clinical diagnosis and treatment programmes is still to be improved, and the development and validation of vaccines and specific drugs are only beginning to dawn.
疫情终会结束，科研攻关不会停止。
The epidemic will eventually end, and scientific research will not stop.
于科学家与临床专家，广泛的临床数据公开、数据共享，是攻克疾病的基石。
With scientists and clinical experts, extensive open clinical data, data sharing, is the cornerstone of overcoming the disease.
锁定：病毒是谁上海复旦大学公共卫生学院教授张永振，在2019年12月26日收到一份来自武汉市中心医院和武汉市疾控中心的标本。
Locking: Who is the virus? Zhang Yongzhen, a professor at Shanghai Fudan University School of Public Health, received a specimen from Wuhan Central Hospital and Wuhan CDC on December 26, 2019.
标本来源于一名12月26日入住武汉市中心医院的患者，入院时患有严重的呼吸系统综合症，包括发烧，头晕和咳嗽。
The specimen was taken from a patient admitted to Wuhan Central Hospital on December 26 and admitted with severe respiratory syndrome, including fever, dizziness and cough.
2020年1月5日上午，张永振团队从标本中检测出一种与SARS病毒相似的冠状病毒，并通过高通量测序获得了该病毒的全基因组序列。
On the morning of January 5, 2020, Zhang Yongzhen's team detected a coronavirus similar to the SARS virus from a specimen, and obtained the virus's entire genome sequence through high-throughput sequencing.
几乎同时获取病毒信息的，还有中科院武汉病毒所研究员石正丽团队。
Almost simultaneously obtains the virus information, also has the Chinese Academy of Sciences Wuhan virus researcher Shi Zhengli team.
石正丽团队也收到了武汉市疾控中心发来的患者样本；1月2日，获得了病毒的全基因组序列，证实是这是一种全新冠状病毒，并于1月5日分离出病毒毒株。
Shi Zhengli's team also received a patient sample from Wuhan CDC. On January 2, they obtained a genome-wide sequence of the virus, which proved to be a new coronavirus, and isolated the virus strain on January 5.
冠状病毒在显微镜下，外模有明显的棒状粒子突起，因之看上去像中世纪欧洲帝王皇冠，遂得名“冠状病毒”。
The coronavirus is microscopically known as a coronavirus. The coronavirus (coronavirus) appears as a coronavirus in the form of a medieval monarch's crown.
这种病毒在80多年前首先从鸡身上分离出来。
The virus was first isolated from chickens more than 80 years ago.
1965年，科学家分离出第一株人的冠状病毒。
In 1965, scientists isolated the first human coronavirus.
此次病原检测结果初步评估专家组组长、中国工程院院士徐建国，1月9日接受新华网采访时称，“本次不明原因的病毒性肺炎病例的病原体初步判定为新型冠状病毒。
"The pathogen of this unknown case of viral pneumonia has been preliminarily identified as a new coronavirus," Xu Jianguo, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and leader of the preliminary evaluation team, told Xinhua on January 9.
”彼时，距离武汉首次通报疫情间隔9天。
Wuhan was then notified of the outbreak nine days after the outbreak was first reported.
当年的SARS病毒，基因测序做4个月才出来，科学家用5个多月的时间才最终确定为新型冠状病毒；2013年的H7N9禽流感疫情，20多天找到新病毒。
It took scientists more than five months to finalize the new coronavirus, which took four months to sequence, and the H7N9 avian flu outbreak in 2013, with new viruses found for more than 20 days.
此次锁定病毒，中国科学家用时9天。
Chinese scientists spent nine days locking in the virus.
1月10日，张永振团队将新型病毒的序列公布在virological.org网站上，这是一个病毒学、传染病学网上论坛。
On January 10, Zhang's team posted the sequence of the new virus on the virological.org website, an online forum on virology and epidemiology.
第二天，石正丽团队受国家卫健委指派，向WHO提交了病毒全基因组序列,并将序列提交GISAID（全球共享流感数据倡议组织）平台。
The next day, Shi Zhengli's team, appointed by the National Health Commission, submitted a complete genome sequence of the virus to WHO and submitted it to the GISAID (Global Shared Influenza Data Initiative) platform.
“中国在监测疫情暴发、分离病毒、对基因组测序并与世卫组织和世界分享方面的速度令人印象非常深刻。
"China has been very impressive in monitoring outbreaks, isolating viruses, sequencing genomes and sharing them with WHO and the world.
”世卫组织总干事谭德塞在1月30日的新闻发布会，如此评价中国科学家的工作。
At a news conference on January 30, WHO Director-General Lindsey described the work of Chinese scientists as such.
中国向全球科学家分享病毒全基因组序列的第二天，即1月12日，WHO将新型病毒命名为2019-nCOV。
On January 12, the day after China shared its entire genome sequence with scientists around the world, the World Health Organization named the new virus 2019-nCOV.
“病毒全基因组序列，对于科学研究与疫情初步认识极为重要。
"The whole genome sequence of the virus is very important for scientific research and preliminary understanding of the epidemic.
”复旦大学公共卫生学院一名教授接受《财经》记者采访时说，“新病毒与相似病毒的进化分析，新病毒的检测方法、发病机制，以及后期的的疫苗与药物研发，都要基于全基因组序列。
"The evolution of new viruses and similar viruses, their detection methods and pathogenesis, and later vaccine and drug development are based on whole genome sequences," a professor at the Fudan University School of Public Health told Caijing.
”锁定新冠病毒的身份信息后，张永振、石正丽两个研究团队旋即进行了科学研究，并分别向国际学术期刊《自然》提交了论文。
After locking in the identity of the new crown virus, Zhang Yongzhen and Shi Zhengli immediately conducted scientific research and submitted papers to the international academic journal Nature.
2月3日，《自然》在线发表了两篇论文。
On 3 February, Nature published two papers online.
张永振团队的论文，认为新病毒与先前从中国蝙蝠中获得的一组SARS样冠状病毒，核苷酸相似性达89.1%，亲缘关系最为密切。
Zhang Yongzhen's team concluded that the new virus is closely related to a group of SARS-like coronavirus previously acquired from Chinese bats, with a nucleotide similarity of 89.1%.
石正丽团队在5名病人身上，获取了全长度基因组序列，发现彼此之间相似度超过99.9%，与SARS病毒有79.5%的序列一致；并发现该病毒序列与一种蝙蝠冠状病毒，在全基因组水平上相似度高达96%。
Shi Zhengli's team obtained a full-length genome sequence from five patients, found to be more than 99.9% similar to each other and 79.5% consistent with the SARS virus; and found that the virus sequence was 96% similar to a bat coronavirus at the genome-wide level.
此外，该团队论文确认了新冠病毒进入细胞的路径与SARS冠状病毒一样，即通过ACE2细胞受体。
In addition, the team's paper confirmed that the new crown virus enters the cell on the same pathway as the SARS coronavirus, which passes through the ACE2 receptor.
早在1月23日，石正丽团队就将论文在预印版平台bioRxiv上发表。
As early as January 23, Shi Zhengli's team published the paper on the pre-printing platform bio Rxiv.
“这两篇最初的论文，非常重要。
"These two original papers are very important.
”上述复旦大学教授告诉《财经》记者，“第一篇让人们认识了这是什么病毒，第二篇的主要贡献是描述了病毒进入细胞的路径。
"The first one shows people what the virus is, and the second one describes the route through which the virus enters the cell," Fudan University professor told Caijing.
”冠状病毒为RNA病毒，特征是变异性高，因为它的RNA和RNA之间重组率非常高。
The coronavirus, known as RNA, is characterized by high variability due to the very high rate of recombination between RNA and RNA.
也就是说，决定其病毒特性的遗传物质在不断变化。
That is, the genetic material that characterizes the virus is constantly changing.
此前冠状病毒家族中已知能感染人体的冠状病毒共有6种。
Previously there were 6 coronavirus known to infect the human body in the coronavirus family.
其中， SARS和中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒（MERS），则可引起严重的呼吸系统疾病。
Among them, SARS and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS) can cause severe respiratory diseases.
前者（SARS）人际传播明显，令疾病迅猛蔓延。
The former (SARS) interpersonal transmission is obvious, causing the disease to spread rapidly.
1月24日，中国疾病预防控制中心主任高福领衔的科学家团队，在《新英格兰医学杂志》发表论文：“对三名患有严重肺炎的成年患者的疾病特征进行了深入分析，并从临床标本中分离毒株，并得到了2019-nCoV病毒。
On January 24, a team of scientists led by Gao Fufu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, published in the New England Journal of Medicine: "An in-depth analysis of the characteristics of three adult patients with severe pneumonia and the isolation of virulent strains from clinical specimens yielded 2019-nCoV.
”同样得到毒株的，还有上海市疾控中心，于2月7日，获得4株高滴度的病毒株。
Also getting the strain was the Shanghai CDC, which on Feb. 7 acquired four high-ticking strains of the virus.
分离得到的病毒株可用于疫苗研制、快速检测试剂开发、抗病毒药物筛选，也可用于疾病谱、传染谱等研究领域。
The isolated virus strains can be used in vaccine development, rapid detection reagent development, antiviral drug screening, but also in disease spectrum, infectious spectrum and other research fields.
1月24日，国家病原微生物资源库发布了第一株病毒毒种信息及其电镜照片，新冠病毒的“真容”，第一次展现在世人面前：该病毒外模的棒状粒子凸起，完美呈现一个皇冠状。
On January 24, the National Pathogenic Microbe Resource Bank released the first ever viral drug and electron microscope image of the new cap virus. For the first time, the virus's wand-shaped particles protrude, presenting a crown-like appearance.
“全基因组序列找到了‘贼’的证据，把病毒培养出来，则是把‘贼’抓住了。
"The whole genome sequence has found evidence of a 'thief' and, by breeding the virus, has caught the thief.
”浙江大学医学院第一医院、传染病诊治国家重点实验室副主任肖永红在接受《新京报》采访时如此评价，“全基因序列拿到病毒的信息，把病毒培养出来，这对于研究病毒致病机制、药物研发都非常有帮助。
Xiao Yonghong, deputy director of the National Key Laboratory for Infectious Diseases and Hospital No. 1 of Zhejiang University Medical School, told the Beijing News that "whole gene sequences get information about the virus and cultivate it, which is very helpful for studying the pathogenesis of the virus and drug development.
”溯源：病毒从哪里来锁定“真凶”后，下一步是病毒溯源，也就是试图描绘出新冠病毒从动物到人的路径。
Tracing the source: Where does the virus lock in the "true killer," the next step is to trace the virus to its source, which is to try to map the route of the new crown virus from animal to human.
追踪病毒的复杂，在2003年暴发的SARS疫情中可见一斑。
The complexity of tracking the virus is illustrated by the SARS outbreak in 2003.
当年，研究者从6只果子狸标本中分离到3株SARS病毒，确认果子狸为感染SARS的直接原因。
That year, the researchers isolated three SARS viruses from six civet samples and identified civet beavers as a direct cause of SARS infection.
可是直到两年后，石正丽团队在《科学》上发表的论文才揭示，“蝙蝠是SARS样冠状病毒的自然宿主”。
But it was not until two years later that Shi Zhengli's team published in Science that "bats are the natural hosts of the SARS-like coronavirus."
新冠状病毒的自然宿主是谁？最早和新冠病毒发生直接联系的是武汉华南海鲜市场，早期确诊的病例，大多来自于此地。
Who is the natural host of the new coronavirus? The earliest direct contact with the new coronavirus is Wuhan South China Seafood Market.
中国疾控中心病毒病所选派专家组1月1日在华南海鲜市场采集到515份环境样本，运送至病毒病所进行检测。
On January 1, a group of experts selected by the China CDC Virus Disease Center collected 515 environmental samples at the South China seafood market and sent them to virus disease clinics for testing.
1月12日，中国疾控中心病毒病所专家再次在华南海鲜市场采集野生动物贩卖商铺相关标本70份，并转运至实验室进行检测。
On January 12, experts from the China CDC Virus Disease Institute once again collected 70 specimens from wildlife shops at the South China Seafood Market and transferred them to laboratories for testing.
两批样本共计585份，PCR检测结果显示其中33份标本为新型冠状病毒核酸阳性。
Two batches of 585 samples, PCR test results showed that 33 samples of the new coronavirus nucleic acid positive.
1月17日，南开大学生命科学学院高山等学者在《生物信息学》杂志发表论文，称溯源分析的结果支持武汉2019冠状病毒源自中华菊头蝠；6天后，石正丽团队在线发表的预印本论文中写道，根据新冠病毒与蝙蝠冠状病毒的同源性则高为96%，就此推测新型冠状病毒可能来源于蝙蝠。
The results support that Wuhan 2019 coronavirus originated from Chinese chrysanthemum bats, according to a paper published in the journal Bioinformatics on January 17. Six days later, Shi Zhengli's team wrote in a pre-printed paper published online that the coronavirus is 96 percent higher than that of bat coronavirus.
“这个数字的确很惊人。
"That's an amazing number.
”南方医科大学教授张其威在其科学网博客中写道，但是，云南的蝙蝠是如何到达武汉海鲜市场的？是否有一个中间宿主把新冠病毒传播到了海鲜市场？中国疾控中心发现华南海鲜市场的585份环境样本中，有33份环境样品中检测到了新型冠状病毒核酸，这33份样品，是在市场内的外界环境中检测到的，而不是在某种动物中检测到的，“这次暴发的冠状病毒的中间宿主和直接源头，还无法确定”。
But how did bats in Yunnan reach the Wuhan seafood market? Did an intermediate host spread the virus to seafood markets? The CDC found that new coronavirus nucleic acids were detected in 33 of 585 environmental samples from the South China seafood market, rather than in an animal.
1月24日，北京首都医科大学的呼吸病学系的常务副主任曹彬、武汉市金银潭医院胸外科主任医师黄朝林等人，在《柳叶刀》上在线发表的论文，对最初感染的41个病人的临床症状进行了分析和总结，发现41例患者中有27例曾接触过华南海鲜市场。
On January 24, Cao Bin, deputy director of the Department of Respiratory Disease at Beijing Capital Medical University, Huang Chaolin, chief thoracic surgeon at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, and others, published online in The Lancet, analyzed and summarized the clinical symptoms of 41 patients who had been exposed to the South China seafood market.
并发现，前四名感染者中有三人没有华南海鲜市场暴露史。
And found that three of the top four infected people have no history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
两天后，《科学》杂志因此撰文援引美国乔治敦大学传染病学专家Daniel Lucey的说法：如果41个病患中那个在12月1日出现的首个病例，确实没有华南海鲜批发市场的暴露史，考虑到潜伏期的因素，这个人很可能是在11月就感染了病毒的，“这种病毒是先被带入市场，然后才被带出市场的”。
Two days later, the journal Science quoted Daniel Lucey, an infectious diseases specialist at Georgetown University, as saying that if the first of the 41 patients had occurred on December 1, there was indeed no history of exposure at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
此后，曹彬在接受《科学》采访时表示：“现在看来，华南海鲜批发市场并不是病毒唯一的来源了”，并进一步表示说“说实话，我们仍然不知道病毒来自哪里”。
"It now appears that the South China seafood wholesale market is not the only source of the virus," Cao told Science.To be honest, we still don't know where the virus came from.
“不管华南海鲜批发市场在其中的位置如何，蝙蝠仍是可能性最大的宿主。
"Wholesale seafood markets in South China, regardless of their location, are still the most likely hosts.
”中科院动物所一名研究员告诉《财经》记者，SARS、MERS、埃博拉、马尔堡病都源自蝙蝠，并非巧合，“蝙蝠的免疫系统对病毒的防御能力强，能将病毒隔离在细胞外，保护蝙蝠不受高病毒载量的感染的同时，会促使病毒在宿主体内更快地繁殖，蝙蝠就容易成为快速繁殖和高度传播病毒的独特宿主”。
It is no coincidence that SARS, MERS, Ebola and Marburg disease all originate in bats, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences told Caijing. "It is no coincidence that bats' immune systems are highly resistant to viruses, able to isolate them from cells and protect them from high viral loads.
2月11日，WHO发布的一份报告显示：越来越多的证据表明，新冠病毒和在蝙蝠中传播的冠状病毒之间存在联系，更具体地说，是与在蝙蝠亚种菊头蝠中传播的冠状病毒有关。
There is growing evidence of a link between the new crown virus and the coronavirus circulating in bats and, more specifically, the coronavirus in bat subspecies, according to a report released on February 11 by the World Health Organization.
蝙蝠是宿主，逐渐成为科学界的共识。
Bats are hosts and have gradually become the consensus of the scientific community.
这也与美国电影《传染病》中的情节不谋而合：蝙蝠在吃香蕉时，将病毒注入其中，香蕉被树下的猪食用，而厨师在处理猪肉后未洗手，将病毒传染给一名食客，从而引发传染病的大暴发。
This coincides with the story in the American film Infectious Diseases, in which bats feed the virus while eating bananas, bananas are eaten by pigs under trees, and chefs who treat pork without washing their hands transmit the virus to a diner, triggering a major outbreak of infectious disease.
该电影也为当下的疫情划出一个问号：蝙蝠与人之间有没有中间宿主？科研人员认为：这次新冠病毒目前的研究结果来自蝙蝠，但是这次武汉疫情暴发是在冬季，冬季蝙蝠是在冬眠状态的，直接感染人微乎其微，这中间需要一个“桥梁”作用的中间宿主。
The film also raises the question of whether there is an intermediate host between bats and humans, researchers said: The new strain comes from bats, but the current Wuhan outbreak occurred in winter, when bats hibernate and have little direct contact with humans, requiring an intermediate host to act as a bridge.
2月12日，在日内瓦举行的世界卫生组织相关论坛上，与会专家认为病毒来源自蝙蝠，并通过某种中间宿主到达人类，可能是蛇或者穿山甲。
At a World Health Organization forum in Geneva on 12 February, experts believed that the virus had originated in bats and had reached humans through an intermediate host, possibly a snake or pangolin.
此前，1月24日，北京大学工学院生物医学工程系教授朱怀球团队发表的研究文章提示，蝙蝠和水貂可能是新型冠状病毒的两个潜在宿主，其中水貂可能为中间宿主。
Earlier, on January 24, a research paper published by Zhu Huaiqiu, a professor of biomedical engineering at Peking University's Faculty of Engineering, suggested that bats and mink could be potential hosts for the new coronavirus, with mink possibly acting as an intermediate host.
该团队通过比较所有宿主在脊椎动物上的病毒传染模式，发现水貂病毒的传染性模式更接近新型冠状病毒。
By comparing the viral transmission patterns of all hosts on vertebrates, the team found that the infectious pattern of mink virus is closer to the new coronavirus.
2月7日，华南农业大学官方微博发布消息，称发现穿山甲为新型冠状病毒潜在中间宿主：该校教授沈永义、肖立华等科研人员，最新研究表明穿山甲为新型冠状病毒的潜在中间宿主。
Pangolin has been identified as a potential intermediate host for the new coronavirus, according to a report released on Feb. 7 by the official Weibo of South China Agricultural University.
沈永义等通过对病毒的基因组分析，发现从穿山甲身上分离的病毒株与目前感染人的毒株序列相似度高达99%。
Genomic analysis of the virus by Shen Yongyi and others showed that the strain isolated from pangolin was 99% similar to that of the present infected human strain.
此次实验样本中的穿山甲，并不是来自武汉华南海鲜市场。
The pangolin in this experiment sample did not come from the south China seafood market in Wuhan.
穿山甲如何将病毒传播至人？截至发稿《财经》记者未收到通过沈永义的回复。
How does pangolin spread the virus to people? As of the release of "Caijing" reporter did not receive through Shen Yongyi's reply.
抵抗：药物和疫苗新冠病毒引起的肺炎，有没有特效药？这是疫情发展之初，全球关注的问题。
Resistance: Is there a specific drug for pneumonia caused by drugs and vaccines? This was a global concern at the beginning of the epidemic.
自WHO与中国疾控部门都表示，“目前对本次新型冠状病毒没有任何特定的治疗药物”，这一现状至今未改变。
"There is no specific treatment for the new coronavirus," the WHO and China's CDC have said, and the situation remains unchanged.
2月8日，国家卫健委推出的《新冠病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）修正版》中，推荐试用药物时，也只能根据过往病毒性疾病的诊疗经验，列入“α-干扰素（雾化吸入），洛匹那韦/利托那韦（口服剂），利巴韦林（静脉注射），以及相关辩证诊治的中医治疗方案”。
On February 8, the revised CHP Program for Diagnosis and Treatment of New Crown Virus Pneumonia (Trial 5th Edition) recommended the inclusion of "Char-Interferon (Aerosol Inhalation), Lopinavir / Ritonavir (Oral Agent), Libavirin (intravenous injection) and TCM Therapy Scheme for Diagnosis and Treatment of Past Viral Diseases."
多家药企启动针对新冠病毒的新药进行研发与试验。
Many pharmaceutical companies have initiated research and development and trials of new drugs for the new crown virus.
不过，引发最大关注的是瑞德西韦（Remdesivir），也被视为目前最大的希望。
The biggest concern, however, is Remdesivir, also seen as the best hope for now.
1月20日，美国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）证实，一名 35 岁、居住在华盛顿州男子的鼻咽和口咽拭子检测为新冠病毒阳性。
On January 20, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirmed that a 35-year-old man living in Washington State had tested positive for the new crown virus.
该患者住院第七天，临床医生使用了研究性抗病毒治疗，在第7天晚上开始静脉注射瑞德西韦，未观察到与输液有关的不良反应。
The patient was hospitalized for seven days, the clinician used research antiviral treatment, and Rhetsevir was intravenously injected on the night of the seventh day. No adverse reactions were observed in relation to the infusion.
住院第8天，也就是注射瑞德西韦后第二天，患者的临床状况得到明确改善。
On the eighth day of hospitalization, the day after Rhetsevier's injection, the patient's clinical condition was definitely improved.
据《新英格兰医学杂志》报道：在注射该药物之后，患者病情有所好转，且无任何副作用，截止目前为止，该患者有且仅有咳嗽症状。
According to the New England Journal of Medicine, the patient improved without any side effects after the drug was injected and has so far only developed cough symptoms.
瑞德西韦，是一种正在开发的新型核苷酸类似物，最早是美国吉利德公司针对埃博拉病毒研发的一款药物，已在国外完成一、二期临床试验，安全性获得验证。
Rhetsevier, a new nucleotide analogue being developed, was first developed by Geely Corp. of the United States for the Ebola virus, and has completed phase I and II clinical trials abroad, where safety has been demonstrated.
1月31日，吉利德首席医学官Merdad Parsey在一则声明中表示：瑞德西韦已在动物模型中被证明对中东呼吸综合征病毒（MERS）和SARS病毒病原体的体外和体内活性，MERS和SARS是与新冠病毒结构相似的冠状病毒。
On January 31, Merdad Parsey, Geely's chief medical officer, said in a statement: Rhetsevir has been shown in animal models to be active in vitro and in vivo against pathogens of the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) and SARS virus, a coronavirus similar in structure to the new crown virus.
新型冠状病毒与埃博拉病毒在生成病毒RNA的聚合酶方面具有机制的相似性，这或许是该药在美国患者身上起效的原因。
The new coronavirus is similar to the Ebola virus in the generation of viral RNA polymerase, which may be the reason why the drug works in patients in the United States.
但一个病例并不能说明药物的有效性。
But a case does not account for the efficacy of the drug.
在科技部、国家卫健委、国家药监局等多部门支持下，瑞德西韦已完成临床试验的注册审批工作。
With the support of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the State Sanitary Commission and the State Administration of Pharmacy and Supervision, Rhetsevier has completed the registration and approval of clinical trials.
首批新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎重症患者2月6日接受用药。
The first patients with severe pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus received medication on February 6.
据介绍，瑞德西韦临床试验由中日友好医院、中国医学科学院药物研究所牵头，研究在武汉金银潭医院等多家临床一线接诊新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者的医院中进行，拟入组761例患者，采用随机、双盲、安慰剂对照方法展开。
The clinical trial of Rhetsevir was led by the China-Japan Friendship Hospital and the Institute of Medicine of the Chinese Academy of Medicine. The study was carried out in a number of hospitals where patients with new coronavirus-infected pneumonia were treated first-hand in Wuhan.
除了瑞德西韦，据《自然》子刊的《自然综述·药物发现》报道，法匹拉韦、利巴韦林等核苷类似物药物，均可以用于治疗广谱的RNA病毒，包括冠状病毒，或可对此次疫情有效。
In addition to Rhetsevir, the journal Nature's Nature Review: Drug Discovery reports that nucleoside analogues, such as Fabiravirin and ribavirin, can be used to treat a broad spectrum of RNA viruses, including coronavirus, and may be effective against the outbreak.
中国的多支研发团队，已经在进行老药新用的药物筛选。
Several research and development teams in China are already screening new drugs for older drugs.
中科院发布的消息显示，由中国科学院院士蒋华良、饶子和领衔，成立了抗2019-nCoV病毒感染联合应急攻关团队，通过对数个数据库进行筛选，获得30种可能对2019-nCoV有治疗作用的药物、活性天然产物。
According to the Chinese Academy of Sciences, academicians Jiang Hua-liang, Raozi and lead the Chinese Academy of Sciences have set up a joint anti-2019-nCoV virus infection emergency response team, which sifted through several databases to obtain 30 potentially therapeutic drugs, active natural products for 2019-nCoV.
该药物研究仍处于非常早期。
The drug research is still at a very early stage.
2月4日，中国工程院院士李兰娟宣布：阿比朵尔和达芦那韦两种药物，在体外细胞实验中显示对新冠病毒有抑制作用。
On February 4, Li Lanjuan, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, announced that Abidol and Daruinavec had both been shown to inhibit the new crown virus in vitro.
李兰娟团队的一名研究人员告诉《财经》记者：“这两种药物已经在浙江患者中与其他药物合用，下一步将对其他药减量，直至替代，进一步看单独使用效果。
"These two drugs have already been used with other drugs in Zhejiang patients, and the next step is to reduce the number of other drugs until they are replaced," Li Lan-juan's team told Caijing.
”中药的老药新用，受到有关部门的重点推荐。
The new use of traditional Chinese medicine has been highly recommended by the relevant departments.
2月4日，一份由武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组发布文件流传出来，通知要求各定点救治医疗机构“成立中医药防治专班”“成立中医药治疗专家组”，并要求于2月3日24时前，确保所有患者服用中药。
On February 4, a medical treatment group of Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a circular requesting designated medical institutions to set up special classes for the prevention and treatment of traditional Chinese medicine and a panel of experts on Chinese medicine treatment.
武汉市卫健委中医药管理处相关负责人向《财经》记者证实了该通知。
Wuhan Health Commission of Chinese Medicine Administration of the relevant officials to "Caijing" confirmed the notice.
“就像当年的SARS疫情，采用中西医结合的做法是有效的。
"Like the SARS epidemic of that year, the combination of Chinese and Western medicine was effective.
但是，中药在治疗冠状病毒引发的疾病方面，经验还不足。
However, Chinese medicine in the treatment of coronavirus-induced diseases, the experience is not enough.
在使用时，不能把西药停掉。
Do not stop using western medicine.
”与中药可以直接在临床使用不同，候选的西药制剂或无缘驰援此次疫情。
Unlike traditional Chinese medicine, which can be used directly in clinical practice, the candidate Western medicine preparation or lack of access to help with the outbreak.
中国临床试验注册中心官网显示：目前共有60多项针对“新型冠状病毒”的注册研究，而在2020年6月1日之前结束的只有14项。
More than 60 studies of the coronavirus have been registered, up from 14 by June 1, 2020, according to the official website of the China Clinical Trial Registration Center.
新药的研发、审批，动辄历经数年，对于此次疫情意义不大,“现在疫情紧张，研发全新的抗新冠病毒药物耗时长、进展慢，更现实的选择就是老药新用。
The new drugs, which have been developed and approved for years, are of little significance to the epidemic. "Now that the epidemic is intense, the development of a new antiretroviral drug is taking a long time and is making slow progress.
”中科院院士陈凯先告诉《财经》记者。
Chen Kai, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told Caijing.
疫苗是抗御病毒最有效的武器。
Vaccines are the most effective weapon against the virus.
中国疾控中心成功分离了新型冠状病毒毒株，为疫苗研发奠定基础。
China CDC successfully isolated a new coronavirus strain and laid a foundation for vaccine research and development.
WHO的信息显示：澳大利亚、英国、中国、法国、德国、美国的多支研究团队，正在竞逐疫苗研发。
Research teams from Australia, the UK, China, France, Germany and the United States are vying for vaccine development, according to the WHO.
据亿欧大健康不完全统计，已有超15家国内外机构和企业正在进行针对新型冠状病毒疫苗的研发。
According to the 100 million EU health incomplete statistics, more than 15 domestic and foreign institutions and enterprises are carrying out research and development for the new coronavirus vaccine.
可是，疫苗能否及时成功问世、助力疫情控制，还是大大的问号。
However, whether the vaccine can be successfully launched in time to help control the epidemic is still a big question mark.
国内公司、研发团队往往释放乐观的消息，有的表示四月份能进临床，有的声称三个月内能制备出来。
Domestic companies, research and development teams tend to release optimistic news, with some saying it will be clinically available in April and others within three months.
2月12日，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞表示：新型冠状病毒的疫苗可能在18个月内完成；此前，法国巴斯德研究所教授克里斯托夫·当费尔于1月31日曾表示：“如果一切顺利，希望该所研发的疫苗在20个月内上市。
The new coronavirus vaccine could be ready within 18 months, said Christopher Daffer, director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO), on Feb. 12. "If all goes well, we hope the vaccine will be on the market within 20 months.
”事实上，疫苗研发上市与疫情发展的时间差，常常使得疫苗“难产”。
Indeed, the time lag between the launch of vaccine development and the spread of the epidemic often makes vaccines "difficult to deliver."
2013年，钟南山在抗击非典十周年学术研讨会曾直言，SARS疫情时，“做SARS疫苗非常辛苦，全部鉴定完成了，（做出）要到2006年，但是已经没有病人，所以就不做了”。
In 2013, Zhong Nan Shan told the SARS Symposium on the 10th anniversary of SARS that "SARS vaccine is very hard work, all the identification is completed, but by 2006, there are no patients, so do not do it."
他的团队在推进应用细胞实验所筛选得到的双链RNA小分子后，对SARS病毒感染模型——20只恒河猴进行体内药效实验，但后续研发未再实质推进。
His team, after pushing forward with small molecules of double-stranded RNA filtered by the cell lab, conducted in vivo experiments on 20 rhesus monkeys, a model of the SARS virus, but no further substantive advances were made.
在那次会上，中科院院士赵国屏上提到西班牙一个教授曾对他说，“自己一辈子做了好几个疫苗，但是从来没有挣过一分钱，因为疫苗做出来后，病就没了”。
On that occasion, Zhao Guoping, a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, mentioned that a Spanish professor had told him, "He made several vaccines in his life, but never made a penny, because when the vaccine was made, it was gone."
有专家分析，针对疫情的药物、疫苗研发不得不面临这种风险：为防止病毒泄露，疫情结束后，直接使用病毒的项目往往会被停掉。
Experts say research and development of drugs and vaccines against the epidemic has had to face the risk that projects that use the virus directly will be halted once the outbreak is over, to prevent the virus from leaking.
无论如何，面对传染性极强的“看不见的敌人”，以探索未知为己任的科研团队，需跨越国界、打破藩篱，携手合作、充分共享信息，方能尽早遏止疫情、减少伤亡。
In any case, in the face of a highly contagious "invisible enemy," the search for an unknown scientific team will require crossing borders, breaking down barriers, working together, and sharing information fully, so that the disease can be stopped and casualties reduced as soon as possible.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从实验室到病房，阻击新冠病毒。
From the lab to the ward, stop the new crown virus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "从实验室到病房，阻击新冠病毒";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from laboratory to ward.
var msg_desc = "病毒的溯源、从动物到人的传播路径、人与人间的传播方式，这些研究还在进行中，抗病毒的疫苗和特效药的研发、验证，还只是初现曙光";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; traceability, route of transmission from animal to human, and modes of human-to-human transmission, all of which are still ongoing; and that the development and testing of antiviral vaccines and specific drugs is only beginning to dawn and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
