清冷的金融街背后，一场隐形“战疫”正在展开。
Behind the cool financial streets, an invisible "plague" is unfolding.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
金融街的“清冷”背后，是一场隐形“战疫”，且将是一场持久战。
Behind the "chill" of the financial street is an invisible "plague," and it will be a protracted war.
因为疫情对于经济金融的影响尚未尽显，即便疫情结束，回归经济本身，金融依然面临考验摄影/黎立文|《财经》记者 张威 张颖馨 俞燕 王颖 编辑|袁满2020年2月10日，新冠肺炎疫情之下，北京迎来企业复工日。
Because the economic and financial impact of the epidemic has yet to be felt, even after the outbreak ended and the economy itself returned to the economy, finance is still facing the test of photography / Li Liwen & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
位于复兴门长安街以北的金融街一改往日的人流川息、车尾长龙，显得格外安静，直到傍晚6点，街道行人寥寥无几。
The financial street just north of Changan Street in Fuxing Gate was unusually quiet, with few pedestrians in the streets until 6 p. m.
一位金融监管人士告诉《财经》记者，这一景象已持续多日，因为他从正月初三（1月27日）开始上岗已经连续加班十几天，每天看到那条街道都很清冷。
One financial regulator told Caijing that the scene had been going on for days because he had been on duty for more than a decade since the third day of the first month, January 27, and every day he saw the street was very cold.
根据《国务院办公厅关于延长2020年春节假期的通知》，各类金融机构及金融基础设施相关机构，自2020年2月3日起正常上班。
According to the Circular of the Office of the State Council on the Extension of the Spring Holiday 2020, all types of financial institutions and institutions related to financial infrastructure have been in operation since 3 February 2020.
事实上，在那条平静的金融街上，很多金融人士早在1月27日就已到岗，处理假期金融服务以及研究稳定节后金融市场方案。
Indeed, in that calm financial street, many financiers were on duty as early as January 27th, handling holiday financial services and studying post-holiday financial-market stability programs.
只是，受疫情影响，一些人选择在家办公，实行轮流值班，而接收文件、需要内网的人则只能到单位。
However, due to the epidemic, some people choose to work from home and work on a rotational basis, while those who receive documents and need the intranet can only go to work.
上述金融监管人士则属于后者，他没得选择。
The financial regulator belongs to the latter, and he has no choice.
他说，一场突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情，已经打破了金融系统原有的工作节奏。
He said a sudden outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown had disrupted the financial system.
2月9日，人民银行副行长刘国强表示，在国务院金融委的指导下，人民银行将打赢疫情防控阻击战作为当前金融工作头等大事，抓紧出台一系列政策措施，全力以赴做好金融支持疫情防控工作。
On February 9, Liu Guoqiang, vice-president of the People's Bank of China, said that under the guidance of the State Council's financial committee, the People's Bank of China had made winning the battle against the epidemic a top priority in its financial work.
一行两会为“战疫”相继发声并出台多项政策。
A two-party epidemic for the "epidemic" one after another and issued a number of policies.
金融支持疫情防控，主要体现在两个方面：一是支持春节期间生产医用物品和生活必需品的企业加班加点生产；二是帮助中小微企业和民营企业抗击疫情，渡过难关，有序恢复生产，促进经济系统健康运转。
The prevention and control of financial support for the epidemic mainly manifests itself in two aspects: first, supporting enterprises that produce medical articles and necessities during the Spring Festival to work overtime; and secondly, helping MSMEs and private enterprises to fight the epidemic, tide over difficulties, resume production in an orderly manner and promote the healthy operation of the economic system.
2月10日，央行设立的3000亿元专项再贷款，首批资金正式发放，这意味着，一些生产应对疫情使用的医用防护服、口罩等重要医用物资企业最快在一两天内便可获得贷款资金，受益于贴息政策，它们的实际融资成本将低于1.6％。
On February 10, the central bank set up a 300 billion yuan special refinancing loan, the first official release of funds, which means that some enterprises producing important medical supplies such as protective clothing and masks to cope with the epidemic will be able to obtain loan funds within a day or two at the earliest.
瑞银证券(UBS)中国首席经济学家汪涛向《财经》记者表示，在疫情面前，金融系统很重要的作用是确保经济和金融市场稳定运行，其中充裕的流动性最为重要。
'In the face of the epidemic, the financial system plays an important role in ensuring the stability of the economy and financial markets, with ample liquidity being paramount, 'Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS, told Caijing.
金融街的“清冷”背后，是一场隐形“战疫”。
Behind the "chill" of the financial street is an invisible "plague."
2月3日，央行在节后开市第一时间向市场提供了1.2万亿元的流动性，并同步呈现利率下调，在这一操作之前，股市、汇市一度因恐慌情绪承压下行。
On February 3, the central bank provided 1.2 trillion yuan in liquidity to the market immediately after the holiday and synchronized interest rate cuts, a move that followed a period of intense panic in the stock and currency markets.
隔日，恐慌情绪减少，金融市场逐渐恢复正常运行。
The next day, panic subsided and financial markets gradually returned to normal.
汪涛认为，以央行为首的各金融部门对疫情做出了反应，提供了流动性，稳定了市场预期，资本市场和经济运行的流动性得到了保障。
The financial sectors, led by the central bank, responded to the outbreak, providing liquidity, stabilizing market expectations and safeguarding the liquidity of capital markets and economic operations, Wang said.
从这个方面来看，应该说金融系统反应是不错的，经受住了考验。
In this respect, it should be said that the financial system has responded well and withstood the test.
钟南山院士2月11日在接受媒体采访时表示，预计新型冠状病毒肺炎新增感染病例峰值将会在2月中下旬出现，4月前可能结束。
The peak number of new cases of coronavirus pneumonia is expected to peak in mid-February and possibly end by April, Zhongnan Mountain said in an interview with reporters on Feb. 11.
“但愿疫情尽快过去！”上述监管人士向《财经》记者传达了他的心声，他又说，疫情之后，他们还有很多工作要做，支持企业复工、防范通胀都是后续的大事。
"I hope the epidemic is over soon!" The watchdog conveyed his message to Caijing, adding that much remained to be done in the wake of the epidemic and that supporting businesses to get back to work and preventing inflation were the next big things.
恒大研究院日前分析指出，疫情将打断中国经济2019年底的弱企稳，在经济下行压力较大背景下，破6是大概率事件，一季度可能破5。
According to a recent analysis by the Hang Seng University Institute, the outbreak will disrupt the weak stabilisation of the Chinese economy by the end of 2019.
此外，金融业在后续可能因不良率上升、证券交易量下降受损。
Moreover, the financial sector is likely to suffer in the wake of rising bad rates and declining securities trading volumes.
显然，金融业面临一场持久战。
Clearly, the financial sector faces a protracted war.
一名金融从业者直言，这种持久，不仅体现在疫情蔓延中金融机构所采取的驰援措施，还体现在疫情结束后，大家如何应对疫情带来的经济金融影响，护体经济、维持金融健康。
One financial practitioner bluntly said that this durability is reflected not only in the assistance measures taken by financial institutions during the spread of the epidemic, but also in how we deal with the economic and financial impact of the epidemic, protect the health of the economy and maintain financial health after the outbreak.
在2月15日的国新办发布会上，人民银行副行长范一飞强调，当前，疫情防控阻击战到了最关键的阶段，人民银行会落实好金融支持疫情防控30条措施，支持有条件的企业尽快复工复产，保持经济平稳运行，把疫情影响降到最低，努力实现党中央确定的各项目标任务。
At a press conference on Feb. 15, Fan Yifai, vice-president of the People's Bank of China, stressed that the prevention and control of the epidemic had reached its most critical stage.
呵护市场：恐慌情绪消散“两市逾3000股跌停，在岸、离岸人民币破‘7’关口，DR007（银行间市场7天回购利率）一度上行约30BP-40BP⋯⋯”开市首日，受新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情影响，金融市场的恐慌情绪通过这些数据得以呈现。
Take care of the market: panic dissipate "More than 3,000 shares of the two cities broke the 7-point limit on shore and offshore RMB, and DR007 (7-day repurchase rate in the inter-bank market) opened on the first day of the market with the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic.
数据之外，恐慌犹在。
Beyond the numbers, fears remain.
在节前持续积累的避险情绪影响下，部分银行将备付金（备付金是商业银行保护存款人利益，满足存款支付，确保资产流动性所做的准备）额度提升一倍，这一举动使得一些银行在开市首日，一改往日身份，成了鲜见的资金净流入银行。
The continued build-up of risk aversion in the run-up to the festival has seen some banks double their provision (a provision made by commercial banks to protect depositors' interests, meet deposit payments and ensure liquidity of assets), a move that has allowed some banks, on their first day of trading, to move away from their status and become a rare net inflow.
何以至此？光大银行资产负债管理部刘杰向《财经》记者表示，当时资金利率大幅上行，一是因为大额支付系统延后使得节前央行投放的资金在2月3日－5日面临集中到期，二是疫情的爆发使得市场预防性资金需求和避险情绪上升。
Everbright's asset-liability management division, Liu Jie, told Caijing that interest rates had risen sharply at the time, partly because of delays in the big payment system, which led to a concentration expiration on February 3-5, and because the outbreak of the outbreak raised the need for precautionary funds and risk aversion.
“按照以往的规律，若今年没有疫情影响，春节假期没有延长，随着现金的逐步回流，2月的流动性将是非常宽裕的。
"In the past, if there had been no epidemic this year, the Spring Festival would not have been extended, and with the gradual return of cash, February would have been very liquid.
”因为有了疫情，因为假期延长，部分银行节前到期的对公存款都无法续作，导致一般存款出现大幅下滑，给银行流动性管理带来了压力，银行也随之通过发行CD（同业存单）和向央行申请OMO（逆回购操作）等方式补充资金缺口。
As a result of the outbreak, extended vacations and the inability of some banks to renew public deposits maturing before the holiday period led to a sharp decline in general deposits, putting pressure on bank liquidity management, with banks filling funding gaps by issuing CDs and applying to central banks for OMO (reverse repurchase operation).
此外，开市前，恒生指数、亚太股指出现大跌走势，也是构成银行避险情绪紧张的原因。
In addition, before the market opened, the Hang Seng Index, Asia-Pacific stock index fell sharply, also constitute the bank's risk aversion tension.
据刘杰回忆，当天资金面的恐慌情绪在交易所市场表现较为明显，其中，交易所回购利率GC001上午涨幅一度超过100BP，GC007上涨超过70BP。
Panic over the funds was more apparent on the exchange, with GC001 up more than 100BP in the morning and GC007 up more than 70BP, according to Mr Liu.
刘杰说，一般而言，在银行间市场资金面趋紧时，部分非金融机构会转向交易所市场进行融资，进而加剧了交易所市场资金面的紧张程度。
In general, Mr. Liu said, some non-financial institutions turn to the exchange market to raise capital as funds tighten in the interbank market, adding to the stress on the market.
让很多投资者感到意外的是，上述恐慌情绪停留的时间很短暂。
To the surprise of many investors, the panic lasted only a short time.
开市当天，央行向市场投放1.2万亿元流动性，同时呵护投资者，“市场受到冲击下跌，不影响长期趋势，投资者不应该恐慌”。
On the opening day, the central bank injected 1.2 trillion yuan of liquidity into the market while taking care of investors. "The market was hit by a downturn that does not affect long-term trends, and investors should not panic."
随后，资金利率开始逐渐回落。
Interest rates on money then began to fall.
上证指数在之后的7个交易日连续上涨；创业板指数则8个交易日累计上涨了8.17％，创三年来新高。
The Shanghai index rose in seven trading days, while the GEM index rose 8.17% in eight trading days, a three-year high.
开市首周，债市中的10年期国债到期收益率收于 2.80％，较上周下降 22.6BP；美元兑人民币中间价均值为 6.97，低于12月 7.01的均值水平。
In the first week of trading, 10-year Treasury notes in the bond market closed at 2.80%, down 22.6 BP from last week, while the median U.S. dollar against the yuan was 6.97, down from the December average of 7.01.
货币市场对央行的流动性呵护，做出了更为友好的回应，DR007均值收于 2.33％，较上周均值下降 25.14BP。
Money markets responded more amicably to central bank liquidity, closing at 2.33%, down 25.14 BP from last week's average.
在央行呵护金融市场流动性之外，刘杰认为，资金面合理充裕的原因还有以下两点，一是随着企业陆续复工，带动现金回流银行体系；二是后续金融机构避险需求逐步下降，银行间市场传统大行资金融出规模增多。
In addition to the central bank taking care of the liquidity in the financial markets, Liu said the two reasons are as follows: first, as enterprises resume work, driving cash back into the banking system; second, the gradual decline in demand for safe haven by follow-up financial institutions; and the increase in the size of traditional capital outlays in the interbank market.
在某金融监管人士看来，疫情引发的金融市场恐慌情绪很快消散，说明我国金融监管以及金融市场的参与主体越发成熟。
In the view of one financial regulator, the financial market panic caused by the outbreak quickly dissipated, indicating the growing maturity of our financial supervision and financial market participants.
“央行对流动性调控、掌控的水平较以前提升很多，包括窗口指导、及时发声”。
"The level of liquidity regulation and control by the central bank is much higher than before, including window guidance and timely voice."
刘杰对此表示认同。
Liu Jie agreed.
以货币市场和股票市场为例，他说，一般资金价格高的时候，对于融出资金的银行是一个很好的创利机会，但是在开市当天，由于避险需求的提升，银行资金业务转向防御模式，更倾向于储备预防性资金维持银行日间流动性的稳定，以应对市场存在的不确定性。
In the money and equity markets, for example, he said that when the general money price was high, it was a good opportunity for lending banks to generate revenue, but on the opening day, as demand for safe haven increased, banks shifted their money operations to a defensive mode, preferring to hold precautionary funds to maintain the bank's daytime liquidity stability in response to market uncertainties.
此外，A股休市期间，国际市场对疫情反应较为激烈，亚太股市整体疲软，国内市场普遍预测开市首日会大幅下跌，但是国家依然正常开市，这源于我国多年的制度完善以及对外开放力度加大支撑而来的自信。
In addition, the international market response to the epidemic during the A-share market was fierce, the Asia-Pacific stock market as a whole was weak and the domestic market was generally forecast to fall sharply on the first day of the market, but the country remained open normally, thanks to years of institutional improvement and increased openness.
“在相关政策的约束下，微观主体参与者投机性有所弱化，更关注持股公司的基本面和价值判断”。
"Under the constraints of relevant policies, micro-principal participants have weakened speculative, more concerned about the fundamentals and value judgement of shareholding companies."
人民银行副行长潘功胜2月7日在国新办发布会上表示，金融市场的敏感性很强，可以对风险进行快速定价，股市汇市在经历开市初期短期波动后，已经基本恢复正常运行。
'Financial markets are very sensitive and can price risks quickly, 'Pan Gongsheng, vice president of the People's Bank of China, said at a press conference on Feb. 7.
“2月3日中国金融市场特别是股票市场、外汇市场如期正常开市，这表明了中国政府坚决维护市场规则的决心，也说明中国的金融市场正在走向成熟”。
"The opening of China's financial markets on February 3, especially the stock and foreign exchange markets, was on schedule, demonstrating the determination of the Chinese government to uphold market rules and the maturity of China's financial markets.
瑞银预计，在央行的调节下，DR007在一季度可能保持低位运行，均值水平在2.4％左右。
UBS expects DR007 to remain low in the first quarter, with an average value of about 2.4%, adjusted by the central bank.
他们预计央行还可能进行一定规模的中期借贷便利（MLF）操作，以便给2月20日的贷款市场报价利率（LPR）提供指引。
They also expect the central bank to conduct medium-term lending facilities (MLFs) of a certain size to guide the lending market quote rate (LPR) on February 20.
“一般而言，流动性的运转必须建立在经济活动基础之上，如果经济不活动了，流动性也会随之停止。
"In general, liquidity operations must be based on economic activity, and if the economy is inactive, liquidity will stop."
后续随着经济活动逐步复苏，也能够带动流动性的有效运转。
Follow-up can also lead to effective liquidity as economic activity recovers.
”刘杰说。
"said Liu Jie.
在疫情影响下，稳增长压力依然较大，预计央行货币政策将持续发挥逆周期调节作用，后续OMO到期时，不排除央行会采取新增MLF方式予以对冲，并顺势下调MLF利率10BP，对未来市场流动性的合理充裕较为乐观。
With steady growth pressures remaining high under the epidemic, central bank monetary policy is expected to continue to act as a countercyclical regulator, with subsequent OMOs coming to an end not precluding the central bank from hedging in the form of additional MLF hedges and dropping the MLF interest rate by 10 BP, optimistic about reasonable liquidity in the future.
对于金融市场而言，刘杰认为，疫情对国内金融市场波动的影响是短期的，中长期则相对有限。
For financial markets, Liu said the epidemic's impact on domestic financial market volatility is short-term, and relatively limited in the medium to long term.
对于股市，目前A股估值处于近5年来的低位，具有较强的吸引力，随着对外开放程度的提升，A股市场中长期向好态势并未改变；对于债市，经过此轮调整，债市估值已基本反映了市场对疫情及未来经济基本面的预期，进一步走强空间有限，若未来经济出现补偿性反弹，则债市将面临一定调整压力；对于汇市，考虑到中美利差依然保持较高水平，在中美贸易摩擦达成阶段性协议后，人民币总体处于偏强势状态，疫情造成的人民币贬值压力总体有限。
The long-term positive trend in the A-share market has not changed with the increasing degree of opening to the outside world. After this round of adjustment, the bond market valuation basically reflects the market's expectations of the epidemic and future economic fundamentals.
抗击疫情：服务从未中断春节后的第一天（1月25日），人民银行安排将7×24小时连续运行的小额支付系统单笔支付限额，从100万元提高到了5亿元。
Fighting the epidemic: The service never stopped on the first day after the Spring Festival (January 25) and the People's Bank of China arranged for a single payment limit for a 7 x 24-hour continuous operation of a small payment system from $1 million to $500 million.
同时，1月25日起至1月30日，放开小额支付系统业务限额，确保各项大额资金的汇划及时处理。
At the same time, from 25 January to 30 January, the operating limits of the petty cash payment system were lifted to ensure the timely processing of transfers of large amounts of funds.
范一飞披露，1月24日至2月14日，央行大、小额支付系统共处理1000万元以上支付业务39.35万笔，金额77.37万亿。
Fan revealed that from January 24 to February 14, the central bank's large and small payment system handled 393,500 transactions worth 77.37 trillion yuan (US $381 billion).
其中，与抗击疫情相关的支付业务872笔、金额447.96亿元。
Of these, 872 payment transactions worth 44.796 billion yuan were related to the fight against the epidemic.
据某接近支付清算系统的人士告诉《财经》记者，调整支付额度并不需要花费太长的时间，值班工作人员为了能够让政策第一时间执行，需要24小时值班，但是在疫情期间，为了避免受疫情影响，一个值班人员就需要连续值班7×24小时，而在以往，都是每天更换一次。
According to a person close to the payment-clearing system, it does not take too long to adjust the payments, and the staff on duty need to be on 24-hour duty to allow the policy to be implemented first, but during an epidemic, a duty officer would have to be on duty for 7 x 24 hours a day, instead of once a day in the past.
另一端的银行卡客服中心，春节前意识到疫情的严重性，与已经订票计划回家的员工沟通协商后，实现了大多数员工退票留岗。
At the bank card customer service center at the other end, aware of the severity of the outbreak before Spring Festival, most staff members returned home after communication and consultation with those who had booked tickets.
“客服中心是7×24小时工作，员工没有回家，一方面避免了被疫情传染的风险，另一方面保证在疫情期间业务不受影响。
"The customer service centre is 7 x 24 hours and the employees are not coming home, which on the one hand avoids the risk of infection and on the other hand ensures that operations are not affected during the epidemic.
”该中心负责人表示，对于一些受疫情影响，不能按时信用卡还款的人则增加了一定的容忍期限。
The head of the centre said people affected by the outbreak who were unable to pay their credit cards on time were given an increased tolerance period.
上述监管人士表示，春节期间金融服务从未中断。
Financial services never stopped during the Spring Festival, these people said.
“和很多服务行业一样，疫情期间，银行网点、运钞人员很多具有危险性的工种都在继续。
"Like many service industries, during the epidemic, many dangerous jobs continued to be performed by bank branches and money carriers.
”范一飞表示，疫情发生后，人民银行及时启动应急预案，加强金融系统重要的基础设施，以及关键岗位的运维保障和不间断应急值守，金融业技术保障能力和应急机制经受住了考验。
Fan said that after the outbreak, the People's Bank of China promptly launched an emergency plan to strengthen the financial system's key infrastructure, as well as the operation and maintenance of key posts and uninterrupted emergency duty, and the financial industry's technical support capabilities and emergency response mechanisms have withstood the test.
汪涛认为，金融市场的运转，就像经济系统里的一个润滑液，有助于保持经济顺畅、正常运行。
Wang Tao believes that the operation of financial markets, like a lubricant in the economic system, helps keep the economy running smoothly and properly.
金融系统好像电力或者运输等系统一样，是经济里的一个基础设施。
The financial system, like systems such as electricity or transport, is an infrastructure in the economy.
当疫情发生的时候，金融系统不能出现流动性突然短缺、信用紧缩的情况。
When an epidemic occurs, the financial system cannot suffer from a sudden liquidity shortage and a credit crunch.
基础服务之外，金融扶持政策的落地同样关键。
Beyond basic services, the landing of financial support policies is also crucial.
伴随3000亿元央行专项再贷款逐步落地，市场更为关注拿到“救急钱”的企业是否会挪用资金？中国农业发展银行（下称“农发行”）广东分行行长谢文告诉《财经》记者，目前这批专项再贷款主要是向疫情防控重点企业提供，这其中，有的企业是与农发行有长期业务往来，也有的是从未打过交道的企业。
With 300 billion yuan of refinancing from the central bank, more attention is being paid to whether companies receiving emergency money will divert funds, Xie Wen, president of the Guangdong branch of the Agricultural Development Bank of China (CAB), told Caijing.
对于前者，因为银企之间比较了解，主要考量还款来源、现金流等因素。
For the former, because of the better understanding between the banking enterprises, mainly consider the source of repayment, cash flow and other factors.
对于从未打过交道的企业，主要通过“封闭管理”确保资金“用在刀刃上”。
For companies that have never dealt with it, it is mainly through "closed management" that funds are "used on the knife's edge."
“‘封闭管理’其实就是我们会要求企业提供采购合同等证明，然后由我们直接向其上游企业打款，即强调‘受托支付’，减少企业的‘自主支付’。
"" Closed management "means that we will require companies to provide proof of procurement contracts and so on, and then we will make payments directly to their upstream companies, that is to say, to emphasize 'fiduciary payments' and reduce the 'autonomous payment' of the enterprise.
”谢文说。
'she said.
《财经》记者注意到，虽然民营银行不在专项再贷款可申请银行范围，但其也在信贷投放中采用了资金封闭式管理方法。
The Caijing reporter noted that although the private bank does not apply for the bank scope in the special refinancing, but it also uses the closed fund management method in the credit delivery.
新网银行行长赵卫星透露，疫情发生后，新网银行主要向与抗击疫情相关的企业加大投放，若企业申请资金超过25万元，则会由银行直接将资金支付给上游供货方。
Zhao Satellite, president of the New Net Bank, said that after the outbreak, the new bank mainly put more money into enterprises related to the fight against the epidemic.
另据银保监会副主席梁涛在国新办新闻发布会上透露，截至2月14日中午12时，银行业金融机构为抗击疫情提供的信贷支持金额超过5370亿元。
Liang Tao, vice-chairman of the CBRC, told a news conference at the State Administration of Banking Supervision, that as of 12 noon on February 14, banking financial institutions had provided more than 537 billion yuan in credit support for the fight against the epidemic.
针对疫区企业生产和投资受到较大影响，流动性困难的情况，证监会开启融资“绿色通道”的效应也开始逐渐显现。
In view of the production and investment of enterprises affected by the epidemic area, liquidity difficulties, the SFC began to open a "green channel" financing effect has gradually begun to appear.
截至目前，已有4家武汉公司通过“绿色通道”发债，拟融资28亿元；有10只疫情防控公司债券及1只ABS发行，共计112.3亿元，数单抗击疫情专项债正在筹划发行。
So far, four Wuhan companies have issued bonds through the "Green Channel," raising 2.8 billion yuan, 10 company bonds and one ABS issue, totaling 11.23 billion yuan, and several special debts to fight the epidemic are being planned for release.
股权及创投基金抗疫类在投项目已有46个，金额170.46亿元。
The number of equity and venture capital fund anti-epidemic projects has reached 46, amounting to 17.046 billion yuan.
不过，在各方积极投身于抗疫的大潮下，也有一些不和谐声音。
However, under the tide of active participation in the fight against the epidemic, there are also some discordant voices.
在疫情带来的恐慌情绪中，一些保险公司业务员却开始借势进行病毒式营销，以各种极具感情色彩的帖子，描述感染后没有商业保险加持是多么可怜。
Amid the panics of the epidemic, some insurers are turning to viral marketing to portray how pathetic it is to be infected without commercial insurance.
2月3日开工首日，银保监会人身险部、财产险部和中介部三部门同时发文，要求保险公司做好相关业务领域的服务。
On February 3, the first day of operation, the Commission's life insurance department, property insurance department and intermediary department three departments simultaneously sent a letter, requiring insurance companies to do a good job in the relevant business areas.
其中，人身险部的文件要求，严禁借疫情渲染炒作保险产品，严禁利用疫情诱导客户退旧买新，严禁开发设计缺乏定价基础的新型冠状病毒感染肺炎专属产品，严禁将保险产品扩展责任宣传为新型冠状病毒感染肺炎专属产品。
Among them, the documents of the Personal Insurance Department require that it is strictly forbidden to use the epidemic situation to promote insurance products, to use the epidemic situation to induce customers to retire old and buy new products, to strictly prohibit the development of a new coronavirus infection pneumonia exclusive product without pricing basis, and strictly to promote the expanded responsibility of insurance products as a new coronavirus infection pneumonia exclusive product.
由于新冠肺炎没有特效药，针对疫情初期难以确诊、病情隐蔽、病程较长等特点，为了缓解出险客户和家庭的经济压力，银保监会基于以人为本，允许保险公司扩展保险责任，将新冠肺炎纳入其中，并取消等待期、免赔额、定点医院限制等，简化理赔手续。
In order to ease the financial pressure on clients and families at risk, the CBRC has allowed insurance companies to extend their insurance responsibilities to include new cases of pneumonia and to simplify the processing of claims by eliminating waiting periods, deductible amounts and fixed-point hospital limits.
值得注意的是，金融扶持依然存在一定的空白点。
It is worth noting that there are still some gaps in financial support.
随着疫情蔓延，诸如餐饮、旅游、电影、交运、教育培训等行业遭受不小冲击，身处其中的企业经营主、个体经营户不可避免地受到影响。
As the epidemic spreads, industries such as catering, tourism, film, delivery, education and training have been hit hard, and business owners and self-employed people are inevitably affected.
多名中小企业负责人均告诉《财经》记者，当前最大的问题就是由于被迫停业引发的流动资金短缺，若资金问题难以解决，恐难以“过冬”。
Several heads of small and medium-sized enterprises told Caijing that the biggest problem is the shortage of working capital due to forced shutdown, which could make it difficult to "winterize" if the funding problem is not resolved.
谢文直言，从政策性银行角度来看，此次疫情反映出我国在城乡基础设施建设方面存在一些薄弱环节。
Xie Wenwen bluntly, from the perspective of policy banks, the epidemic reflects China's urban and rural infrastructure in the construction of some weak links.
所以农发行将来在信贷投放方面，会进一步加强对改善农村人居环境、城乡公共卫生设施建设等方面的支持力度。
Therefore, in the future, agricultural distribution in terms of credit will further strengthen the improvement of rural living environment, urban and rural public health facilities, and other aspects of support.
同时，经过此次疫情，亦会考虑在疫情防治物资储备等方面发力。
At the same time, through this outbreak, will also consider in the epidemic prevention and control material reserve and other aspects.
“银行的角色是配合实体经济去做事，我一直比较反对将金融前置。
"The role of banks is to work with the real economy, and I've always been more against putting money before money."
若去盲目追逐一些金融获利，这就不会是一个健康的社会。
If we go after some financial gain blindly, it will not be a healthy society.
银行应该先去看国家政策或实体产业发展导向，他们在做什么事情，然后我们就快速地提供资金，提供金融服务方式，用这种方式去配合、去助力，而不能说由金融去引导。
Banks should look first at national policies or the direction of real industrial development, what they are doing, and then we provide money quickly, provide financial services in such a way as to complement and help, rather than being guided by finance.
”赵卫星直言，“我特别担心企业最后是为了获取金融利益，而放弃了实体利益。
"I am particularly worried that companies will eventually forgo their real interests in order to gain financial gain," Zhao said.
”经济之压：宽信用扶持市场分析普遍认为，新型冠状病毒肺炎的疫情使得一季度的中国经济承受较大压力。
"Pressure on the economy: broad credit support market analysis It is widely believed that the new coronavirus pneumonia has put more pressure on China's economy in the first quarter.
瑞银中国经济学家预计2020年一季度GDP同比增速可能会降至3.8％，全年增速可能放缓至5.4％。
UBS China economists expect GDP growth to slow to 3.8% YoY in the first quarter of 2020 and to 5.4% for the full year.
近日，瑞银宏观再次发声表示，如果一季度GDP环比折年率下跌3％、超过我们基准预测的下跌1.5％（同比增速降至3.4％、低于目前基准预测的3.8％），则即便二至四季度经济活动大幅反弹，2020年GDP增速也可能放缓至5％左右。
UBS Macro said recently that even a sharp rebound in economic activity in the second to fourth quarters could slow to around 5 per cent in 2020 if GDP growth in the first quarter falls by 3 per cent over the annualized rate and 1.5 per cent below our benchmark forecast (down to 3.4 per cent year-on-year and 3.8 per cent below the current benchmark forecast).
汪涛向《财经》记者表示，现在经济面临最大的问题是新冠肺炎疫情引起的负面冲击，所以，现在最重要的政策是要把疫情控制住，防止经济受到太大的负面影响。
Wang told Caijing that the biggest problem facing the economy now is the negative impact of the outbreak, so the most important policy now is to contain the outbreak and prevent the economy from being adversely affected too much.
疫情如果继续发展，人员无法上班，企业无法复工复产，对经济的负面影响就会扩大。
The negative impact on the economy will be magnified if the epidemic continues and workers are unable to return to work and businesses are unable to resume production.
某宏观分析师向《财经》记者表示，这轮疫情跟SARS有很大区别，传染数量是前所未有的，导致湖北封城、全国隔离、延迟复工的管控也是前所未有的。
A macro analyst told Caijing that the outbreak was very different from SARS, with unprecedented numbers of infections, and unprecedented controls over Hubei's closure, national isolation and delayed resumption of work.
这些措施有利于应对疫情，但也前所未有地让经济“休眠”，广大企业现金流断流。
These measures are conducive to the response to the epidemic, but also unprecedented "dormant" the economy, the vast majority of corporate cash flow.
这么多“前所未有”组合在一起，与其说是像SARS，不如说是更像2008年的金融危机。
So many "unprecedented" combinations are more like the 2008 financial crisis than SARS.
面对这一系列前所未有的情况，大家很容易预期不稳，很容易让这一轮“弱企稳”被“黑天鹅”打断。
Faced with this unprecedented set of circumstances, it is easy to anticipate instability and allow this round of "weak stabilization" to be interrupted by "black swans."
经济指标走弱，又继续催化悲观预期，这样的悲观预期容易与经济走弱形成共振，相互促进导致经济陷入恶性循环。
Weak economic indicators continue to catalyze pessimistic expectations, which tend to resonate with economic weakness, mutually reinforcing each other into a vicious circle.
在上述较为悲观的看法下，金融工作被认为是稳定预期的关键因素。
In this more pessimistic view, financial work is seen as a key factor in stabilizing expectations.
该分析师指出，首先要稳住各方预期，才能稳住增长。
The analyst pointed out that the first thing to stabilize expectations is to stabilize growth.
尤其是前两个月没有经济基本面数据公布，是数据真空期，各方都处于信息不对称，只有参考金融市场数据，对引导预期的作用很多。
In particular, the absence of data on economic fundamentals in the previous two months was a period of data vacuum in which all parties were subject to information asymmetries, and reference to financial market data had much to do with guiding expectations.
金融管理工作至关重要，某金融研究人士向《财经》记者表示，一是维护充裕流动性，松绑信贷额度，推动企业恢复投资意愿，消费者恢复消费意愿；二是加大金融开放、金融创新，引入国际金融市场的成熟经验，促进国内金融市场更理性，也能促进流动性更加惠及各类企业。
Financial management is crucial, a financial researcher told Caijing. One is to maintain abundant liquidity, loosen lines of credit, promote enterprises' willingness to invest and consumers' willingness to spend again. The other is to increase financial openness and innovation, bring in the mature experience of international financial markets, make domestic financial markets more rational and promote greater liquidity for all types of enterprises.
上述金融监管人士向《财经》记者表示，保证医用物品生活必需品供给，支持企业大面积复工复产，防范通胀，都是金融服务要做的大事。
Financial regulators told Caijing that ensuring the supply of medical necessities, supporting large-scale resumption of work and preventing inflation are major financial services tasks.
“除了疫情防控所需医用物品紧缺问题外，老百姓生活必需品也很快出现紧缺和断供，那样的话物价上涨，社会就会陷入更为严重的恐慌。
"In addition to the shortage of medical supplies needed to prevent and control the epidemic, there will soon be shortages and shortages of basic necessities for ordinary people.
”他说，金融需要继续考虑上述问题。
Finance needs to continue to think about these issues, 'he said.
即便疫情结束，回归经济本身，金融依然面临考验。
Even if the epidemic ends and returns to the economy itself, finance still faces a test.
今年年初，在经济呈现阶段性类滞胀风险、货币政策两项最终目标“稳增长”和“控通胀”出现冲突、决策难度加大之际，我国央行货币政策首要目标已向稳增长倾斜。
At the beginning of this year, China's central bank's monetary-policy priorities tilted toward stable growth at a time when the economy was at risk of stagflation, the two ultimate goals of monetary policy were "steady growth" and "controlled inflation," and decision-making had become more difficult.
人民银行在“2020年中国人民银行工作会议”中提出，保持稳健的货币政策灵活适度。
In the 2020 Working Session of the People's Bank of China, the People's Bank of China proposed to maintain a prudent and moderate monetary policy.
加强逆周期调节，保持流动性合理充裕，促进货币信贷、社会融资规模增长同经济发展相适应。
We will strengthen counter-cyclical regulation, maintain adequate liquidity, and promote the growth of monetary credit and social financing commensurate with economic development.
华泰宏观李超团队曾提出“相适应”的核心是指当经济增速回落压力较大，央行可能通过预调微调提高信贷社融规模，以稳定经济增长，即本质要求在于扩信用。
Huatai's macro-Li team once suggested that the core of "adaptability" is that when the pressure for economic growth is high, the central bank may increase the size of credit facilities by pre-tuning it in order to stabilize economic growth, that is, credit expansion is essential.
潘功胜指出，央行在认真分析评估疫情对我国经济影响，做好了有关政策储备。
Pan Gongsheng pointed out that the central bank is carefully analyzing and assessing the impact of the epidemic on China's economy and has made a good policy reserve.
下一步，一是加大逆周期调节强度，保持流动性合理充裕，为实体经济提供良好的货币金融环境；二是进一步深化利率市场化改革，完善市场报价利率的传导机制，提高货币政策传导效果，降低社会融资成本；三是要继续发挥结构性货币政策工具的作用，像定向降准、再贷款、再贴现等结构性货币政策工具的引导作用，加大对国民经济重点领域、薄弱环节的支持力度。
Second, we should further deepen the reform of interest rate liberalization, improve the transmission mechanism of market quotation rates, improve the effect of monetary policy transmission and reduce the cost of social financing. Third, we will continue to play a role as a structural monetary policy tool, such as targeted reduction, refinancing and rediscount, and strengthen support for key areas and weak links in the national economy.
京东数科首席经济学家沈建光在今年年初就曾向《财经》记者表示，在2020年，中国央行货币政策面临最大的担忧和挑战是如何提高货币政策有效性。
The central bank's biggest concern and challenge to monetary policy in 2020 is how to improve the effectiveness of monetary policy, Shen Jianguang, chief economist at Jingdong Numbers, told Caijing earlier this year.
受疫情影响，很多研究机构预期，2020年中国央行有望出台更多的降准与降息措施。
Affected by the outbreak, many research institutes expect the central bank to introduce more cuts and rate cuts in 2020.
平安证券首席经济学家张明将央行降准的次数预测由之前的2-3次提高至3-4次，同时认为，2020年，中国央行在SLF-MLF-LPR层面的降息幅度也将变得更大。
Zhang Ming, chief economist at Ping An Securities, raised the number of times the central bank lowered its target 3-4 times from two to three, and said it would cut rates more sharply in 2020 at the SLF-MLF-LPR level.
不过，货币政策发力依然受到CPI增速的限制。
However, the strength of monetary policy is still limited by CPI growth.
2019年12月，中国CPI与PPI同比增速分别为4.5％、-0.5％。
In December 2019, China's CPI and PPI grew 4.5% and -0.5% year on year, respectively.
分析认为，新冠肺炎疫情可能导致本次CPI同比增速的上涨持续更长时间，或者回落速度更慢。
The analysis suggests that the outbreak could lead to a longer or slower year-on-year increase in CPI growth.
有鉴于此，市场主要声音认为2020年的货币政策宽松可能更多发生在下半年。
With that in mind, leading market voices argue that monetary easing in 2020 is likely to occur more in the second half of the year.
关于通胀的问题，范一飞回答记者提问时表示，现在由于复工复产还需要一个过程，无论是需求端还是其他方面都给价格稳定带来一定压力。
On the issue of inflation, Fan responded to questions from reporters that it will now take a process, whether on the demand side or otherwise, to restore production to a certain level of price stability.
但是，保持稳健的货币政策，这个前提没有改变，针对这些问题我们会及时采取措施进行调整，相信中国绝对不会出现大规模的通货膨胀这样的事情。
However, the premise of maintaining a prudent monetary policy has not changed. We will take prompt measures to adjust to these problems and believe that China will never experience large-scale inflation.
下一步，金融系统如何发挥协助经济稳增长？汪涛判断央行还会降准、降息，银保监会也会暂时放松一些监管政策，比如延缓还债期限以及继续加大中小企业信贷支持等。
The next step is how the financial system can help the economy grow? Wang Tao judges that the central bank will cut interest rates and the CBRC will temporarily ease some regulatory measures, such as a moratorium on debt repayment and continued expansion of SME credit support.
鉴于当前实体经济面临的压力， “在企业面临难关的时候，延缓债务应交的期限是必要的”。
Given the current pressures on the real economy, "it is necessary to postpone the maturity of debt in times of crisis."
银行不能抽贷。
Banks cannot lend.
同时，后续稳增长也需要信用的进一步扶持。
At the same time, continued steady growth also requires further credit support.
目前，市场期待监管层能够延长之前颁布的资管新规过渡期。
At present, the market expects the regulatory layer to be able to extend the previously issued new regulation transition period.
潘功胜在上述发布会上指出，人民银行正在会同银保监会做一些技术上的评估，资管新规过渡期延长是有可能的。
'People's Bank of China is working with the CBRC to make some technical assessments, 'Mr. Pan said at the briefing.' It is possible to extend the transition period for new regulations.
关于央行增加流动性的安全底线如何界定，汪涛认为，央行会有综合考量，可以参考市场利率的变化，权衡经济的需求，不会无节制放水。
Regarding the definition of a safe floor for central banks to increase liquidity, Wang Tao believes that the central bank will have a comprehensive consideration, can take account of changes in market interest rates, balance the needs of the economy, will not be unlimited water release.
上述宏观分析师认为，弥补一季度GDP增速受冲击，基建投资是见效最快的需求工具。
The macro analysts believe that to make up for the first quarter of GDP growth shock, infrastructure investment is the most effective demand tool.
他说，2019年基建回升效果不好，源于传统信贷、债券融资渠道带来的债务负担较重、管控较严，资管新规之下信托等渠道受限，新的金融工具、融资渠道没接上。
He said 2019 had been a poor year because of traditional credit, heavier debt burdens from bond financing, tighter regulation, limited access to trusts under new regulations and new financial instruments and access to finance.
此外，单靠基建能否稳住经济，要不要靠房地产带动，目前存有争论。
Moreover, it is debatable whether infrastructure alone will stabilize the economy or whether it will be driven by real estate.
央行发布的《2019年第三季度货币政策执行报告》提及，“按照‘因城施策’的基本原则，落实房地产长效管理机制，不将房地产作为短期刺激经济的手段。
According to the central bank's Monetary Policy Implementation Report for the third quarter of 2019, real estate should not be used as a short-term stimulus to the economy, in accordance with the basic principles of 'city-wide policy'.
”之前有分析提出“房住不炒”不等于房地产金融政策持续收紧，认为涉房融资占社融已经降至合理常规水平，建议未来不再继续压降涉房融资比重，这个也值得关注。
Previous analyses have suggested that "not stir-frying" does not mean that housing finance policy continues to tighten, that housing finance has fallen to a reasonable standard, and that it is recommended not to continue to reduce the share of housing finance in the future, this is also of concern.
央行原调统司司长、上海市人民政府参事、中欧国际工商学院教授盛松成则认为，不作为刺激手段不应与政策继续收紧画上等号。
Shen Matsusheng, former head of the central bank's regulatory department, a counselor at the Shanghai municipal government and a professor at CEIBS, argues that inaction should not be equated with continued policy tightening.
目前房地产业在我国经济中仍有着重要地位，在经济面临下行压力、地产拐点逐步形成的背景下，房地产调控不应再大幅收紧，保持整体调控稳定在当前的水平是较为适宜的。
At present, the real estate industry still plays an important role in China's economy. Against the background of the downward pressure on the economy and the gradual formation of real estate inflexion points, real estate regulation should not be further tightened.
数据显示，2019年12月末，广义货币（M2）余额198.65万亿元，同比增长8.7％，增速分别比上月末和上年同期高0.5个和0.6个百分点；2019年社会融资规模增量累计为25.58万亿元，比上年增3.08万亿元。
By the end of December 2019, the broad money balance (M2) stood at 198.65 trillion yuan, an increase of 8.7% year-on-year, up 0.5 percentage points and 0.6 percentage points respectively over the previous month and year-on-year.
张明认为，考虑到防控系统性金融风险的压力，中国政府也不会对本次新冠肺炎疫情的负面冲击做出过度反应。
Zhang said the government would not overreact to the negative impact of the outbreak, given the pressure to control systemic financial risks.
例如，针对金融机构的去杠杆、控风险、强监管措施不会得到根本性放松。
For example, deleveraging, risk-taking, and strong regulation of financial institutions will not be fundamentally relaxed.
又如，针对房地产行业的调控（尤其是一二线重点城市的调控）不会出现重大反转。
For example, the regulation of the real estate industry (especially in the first and second-tier key cities) will not be a major reversal.
再如，宏观政策不会重演“大水漫灌”。
Macro-policies, for example, do not repeat the "flood."
金融风险：资产保卫战尽管金融被认为是经济的次生问题，但是，从服务抗战疫情到稳定经济增长，鉴于金融表现滞后，金融系统自身的风险隐患不可忽视。
Financial Risk: Defending Assets Although finance is considered to be a secondary problem in the economy, the risks inherent in the financial system cannot be ignored, given the lag in financial performance, from service-to-war outbreaks to stable economic growth.
恒大研报此前指出，2003年非典期间，交通运输、住宿餐饮、金融等服务业所受冲击较大，二季度GDP分项同比分别较一季度下滑5.4、3.6和3.6个百分点。
Heng Da election newspaper previously pointed out that during the SARS epidemic in 2003, transportation, accommodation, catering and financial services suffered more, with GDP sub-sectors falling 5.4, 3.6 and 3.6 percentage points year-on-year.
汪涛认为，分析金融行业对GDP的贡献意义不大，因为金融本身有大量的附加价值，可以在家办公、继续放贷。
'Analyzing the financial sector's contribution to GDP doesn't make much sense, because finance itself has a lot of added value, 'Mr. Wang says.
相比于其他服务行业，金融行业受疫情直接打击没有那么大。
The financial sector has been less directly hit by the epidemic than other services.
不过，金融系统也会受疫情的负面影响，汪涛认为，疫情冲击经济，很多企业暂时不能复工、现金流缺失、收入下降，严重的企业甚至会破产倒闭，违约率与坏账率肯定上升，银行资产质量会受到一定的影响。
However, the financial system will also be adversely affected by the epidemic, Wang Tao believed that the economic impact of the epidemic, many enterprises temporarily unable to resume work, cash flow loss, income decline, serious enterprises will even bankruptcy, default and bad debt rates will certainly rise, the quality of bank assets will be affected.
再加上稳增长需要增加信用支持，疫情会加大金融系统的潜在风险。
Coupled with the need for increased credit support for steady growth, the outbreak could increase the potential risks to the financial system.
疫情对金融行业的负面影响已经显现。
The negative impact of the epidemic on the financial sector is already being felt.
赵卫星对此感受颇深。
Zhao satellite felt deeply about this.
他告诉《财经》记者，从一季度的业务情况来看，个人信贷业务申请数量同比下滑近30％；另一方面，疫情前申请还款延期的用户数量在40个左右，现在每天都在剧增，单日就有上百个延期还款申请。
He told Caijing that in the first quarter, the number of personal credit applications fell nearly 30 percent year-on-year. On the other hand, the number of pre-epidemic applications for loan repayments was around 40 and is soaring every day, with hundreds of deferred applications in a single day.
若疫情继续，数量还会继续攀升。
If the epidemic continues, the numbers will continue to rise.
而这对银行最直接的影响在于回款率下降，进而导致有效资金投放量减少。
The most immediate effect on banks is a drop in the recovery rate, which in turn leads to a reduction in effective capital outflows.
由此，银行的资金流动性压力骤增。
As a result, liquidity pressures on banks have surged.
多家中小银行负责人亦向《财经》记者表示，目前很多企业都想通过拉长账期的方式解决资金难题，后续就会增加银行的流动性压力。
A number of small and medium-sized bank leaders also told Caijing that at present many enterprises want to solve the financial difficulties by lengthening the account period, which will increase the pressure on the bank's liquidity.
毕竟银行不是“造血者”，仅是流动中的一个环节。
After all, banks are not "hematopoietic"; they are just one part of the flow.
鉴于直接融资在我国社会融资规模中的占比仍然较低，间接融资占比过高，银行业资产质量被认为是这次重点关注的风险隐忧。
Given that the proportion of direct financing in the scale of China's social financing is still low, the proportion of indirect financing is too high, the quality of banking assets is considered the focus of this risk concern.
惠誉评级亦表示，尽管中国银行业在新冠肺炎疫情爆发地湖北省的存贷款敞口不足4％，但如若疫情迅速扩散及相关机构采取的控制措施造成中国其他地区的业务大规模受到影响，银行资产质量将面临很大压力。
Fitch Ratings also said that while China's banking sector had less than 4 per cent exposure to deposits and loans in Hubei province, where the outbreak broke out, the quality of bank assets would come under pressure if the epidemic spread rapidly and control measures taken by the agencies affected businesses in other parts of the country.
参与专项再贷款的银行也存在担心。
Banks involved in special refinancing also have concerns.
“专项再贷款强调‘应急’，如果银行按照原来的程序，就很难做到及时，但这实际上又跟银行的审慎原则存在冲突，如果之后我们出现大量坏账该如何处理。
"Dedicated refinancing emphasizes' contingency, 'which is difficult if banks follow the same procedures, but it actually conflicts with the banks' prudence principle, and what happens if we get a lot of bad loans later."
”一名国有大行信贷业务负责人直言，如果银行过度考虑自己的风险，那肯定就会对企业提出更高要求，后者的资金可得性就会降低。
One head of state-owned big banks' credit operations bluntly said that if banks took their risks too seriously, they would surely place higher demands on companies, which would have less access to capital.
银行很难去做到平衡，最终只能在特殊时期降低一定的“门槛”。
It is difficult for banks to strike the right balance, and ultimately to lower a certain "threshold" in exceptional times.
谢文亦向《财经》记者坦言，为了保证“救命钱”及时到位，确实会存在缩减某些原定程序、放宽“门槛”的情况。
Xie also told Caijing that in order to ensure that the "life saving money" is in place in a timely manner, there will indeed be some reduction in the original procedures and relaxation of the "threshold."
比如授信额度之前主要通过银行自己的系统测算给出，但目前则是对企业的实际需求考虑得更多一点。
Credit lines, for example, were given primarily through banks' own systematic calculations, but are now more sensitive to the real needs of firms.
如何将风险降到最低？谢文强调，即便放宽标准，也不能突破两个底线，即明确资金用途、判断风险可控。
How to minimize the risk? Even if we relax our standards, we will not be able to break through the two bottom lines of clear use of funds and controllable risk.
资产质量带来的压力是大部分银行业受访者提及的话题。
Pressure on asset quality was a topic most banking interviewees mentioned.
某政策性银行负责人直言，根据国家当前的政策，鼓励防疫相关企业生产，生产多的则由政府兜底采购收储，而政府肯定是通过地方财政或者一些国有企业进行，如果这个度把握不好，可能会导致地方政府新增隐性债务，进而会对政策性银行的资产质量产生影响。
The head of a policy bank said bluntly that according to current state policy, enterprises related to epidemic prevention should be encouraged to produce, and those with more production should be bought and saved by the government through local finance or some state-owned enterprises.
其中，中小型银行潜在承压更重，“连续的减产停工，导致很多中小企业难以支撑下去，对一些投放中小企业为主的地方性商业银行、农信社、村镇银行等，冲击会比较大，可能会直接导致其当年盈利锐减，不良率大幅上升。
Among them, small and medium-sized banks are potentially under more pressure. "Successive production cuts have made it difficult for many small and medium-sized enterprises to sustain themselves.
”华南地区某城商行总经理告诉《财经》记者。
The managing director of a south China comptoir told Caijing.
个别大型股份制银行即便拥有比较充裕的资金，但是面临缺少合意资产的窘境。
Even with relatively abundant capital, individual large shareholding banks face a shortage of desirable assets.
“要求银行针对疫情的相关行业加大信贷投放，还有比较大幅度的定价优惠，这实际上对我们的资产质量压力会有影响。
"Requiring banks to invest more credit in the relevant sectors of the epidemic, as well as relatively large pricing incentives, will actually have an impact on our asset quality pressure."
”某股份制银行人士坦言，但是银行的存款成本还是很高，对银行的盈利能力和资本补充能力也有影响，期待降低存款基准利率。
But the cost of bank deposits is still high and has implications for banks' profitability and capital replenishment, with the expectation of lowering benchmark deposit rates, according to a joint-stock banker.
不过，鉴于疫情的一次性暂时冲击，汪涛认为，我国金融体系的系统性风险是可控的。
However, given the one-off temporary impact of the epidemic, Wang Tao believes that the systemic risk of China's financial system is manageable.
银保监会数据显示，2019年三季度末，商业银行不良贷款余额2.37万亿元，较上季末增加1320亿元；商业银行不良贷款率1.86％，较上季末增加0.05个百分点。
According to CBRC data, the non-performing loan balance of commercial banks at the end of the third quarter of 2019 was 2.37 trillion yuan, an increase of 132 billion yuan over the end of the previous quarter.
“银行的拨备覆盖率达到了180％以上，有充足的资源来应对不良的上升。
"The banks have a reserve coverage of more than 180 per cent and have sufficient resources to cope with the negative increase.
”此前，银保监会副主席周亮在国务院新闻发布会上强调。
Earlier, Zhou Liang, vice chairman of the CBRC, stressed at a State Council news conference.
尽管如此，银行依然有自己的诉求。
Still, banks have their own claims.
某全国性银行分行负责人告诉《财经》记者，希望监管在对贷款条件、程序的考量（落实的合理性）、不良贷款等方面多一点宽容度。
The head of a national bank branch told Caijing that he wanted regulation to be a little more lenient on loan conditions, procedures (reasonableness of implementation), non-performing loans, etc.
也有银行呼吁，将受疫情影响企业采取贷款利率下浮、加大信贷额度投放等抗疫措施纳入央行在评估MPA（宏观审慎评估体系）时的考量比重。
Other banks have called for the epidemic-affected companies to be included in the central bank's assessment of MPA (macro-prudential assessment system) by taking measures to combat the epidemic, such as floating lending rates and extending credit lines.
华泰宏观李超团队认为，“金融稳定”是央行的隐性目标之一，虽然2018年初中央提出建立货币政策与宏观审慎双支柱，此后“金融稳定”目标从央行最终目标中部分剥离，由宏观审慎政策来主导完成，但货币政策仍会有所兼顾，且央行的政策底线是不发生系统性金融风险。
Huatai's macro-Li team believes that "financial stability" is one of the central bank's implicit objectives, and that, while monetary policy and macroprudential support were proposed in early 2018, the goal of "financial stability" was partly removed from the central bank's ultimate goal, led by macro-prudential policies.
中国工商银行总行高级风险经理郝志运接受《财经》记者采访时建议：一方面，监管部门要加强金融监管，维护金融稳定性。
On the one hand, regulators need to tighten financial supervision and maintain financial stability, Hao Zhiyun, senior risk manager at ICBC, told Caijing.
有必要对金融稳定体系进行风险评估，及时向市场补充流动性，努力稳定资本市场预期，引导信贷资金服务支持实体经济，压实疫情重点区域的地方金融监管责任。
It is necessary to conduct risk assessment of the financial stability system, replenish liquidity to the market in a timely manner, strive to stabilize capital market expectations, guide credit fund services to support the real economy, and tighten local financial supervision responsibilities in key areas of the epidemic.
另一方面，金融机构要强化风险管理，及时处置不良。
On the other hand, financial institutions should strengthen risk management and deal with poor timely.
要压实使用风险预警、压力测试和合规检查等手段，对疫情带来的风险早预防、早处置、早化解。
Risk early warning, stress testing and compliance inspection should be used compactly to prevent, deal with and resolve the risks of the epidemic at an early stage.
特别是中小金融机构，要拓展资本的补充渠道，有针对性地服务民营、小微和普惠金融。
In particular, small and medium-sized financial institutions, to expand the complementary channels of capital, targeted services to private, micro and inclusive finance.
（本刊实习生王雨婷、张琳宜对此文亦有贡献）（本文将刊于2020年2月17日出版的《财经》杂志）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Interns Wang Yuting and Zhang Linyi also contributed to the article) (This article will be published in Caijing on February 17, 2020.) (This article will be published in Caijing magazine.)
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
清冷的金融街背后，一场隐形“战疫”正在展开。
Behind the cool financial streets, an invisible "plague" is unfolding.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "清冷的金融街背后，一场隐形“战疫”正在展开";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; behind a cold financial street.
var msg_desc = "金融街的“清冷”背后，是一场隐形“战疫”，且将是一场持久战。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; behind & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Behind the "chill" of the financial street is an invisible "plague" and will be a protracted one.
因为疫情对于经济金融的影响尚未尽显，即便疫情结束，回归经济本身，金融依然面临考验";。
Because the economic and financial impact of the epidemic has not yet been felt, finance still faces RST / quot; even after the epidemic ended and returned to the economy itself.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
