复工在即，年轻人走后，父母还会坚持戴口罩么？ - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Will parents still wear masks when young people are gone? - Economic Watch - a professional financial news site.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="李沁";。
Var auther = & quot; Li & quot;;
复工在即，年轻人走后，父母还会坚持戴口罩么？。
Resume work in the near future, young people left, parents will still insist on wearing masks?
李沁2020-02-15 13:24。
Bentham 2020-02-15 13: 24.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 李沁/文2月10日起，全国各地开始陆续复工，时刻盯着父母戴口罩、少出门的年轻人也将先后离开家乡。
The economic observation network, Bentham / Wen, began to resume work throughout the country on 10 February, and young people who stare at their parents wearing masks and go out less often will leave their homes.
不少人此时产生了担忧：父母还能在家待多久？儿女走后，父母还会坚持戴口罩么？。
Many people now worry: How long can parents stay at home? Will parents still wear masks after their children leave?
对部分年轻人而言，劝父母“戴口罩、不出门”的难度，要远高于“父母劝自己穿秋裤”。
For some young people, persuading parents to "wear masks, do not go out" is much more difficult than "parents advise themselves to wear autumn pants."
当然，并非所有的父母都一意孤行，也有人表现得像是模范生，这场中国当代年轻人与父母之间的角逐伴随着疫情形势愈演愈烈。
Of course, not all parents are single-minded, and some are acting like role models, as the battle between China's young people and their parents intensifies.
。
.
通过采访，我们将父母在面对疫情时的表现分为以下四种类型：。
Through the interview, we classified the parents' performance in the face of the epidemic into four categories:
类型一：知道很严重，但是……。
Type One: Know it is serious, but...
主人公：95后研究生和她的60后父母。
Main character: 95 postgraduate students and her parents after 60.
坐标：山西省忻州市代县。
Coordinates: Xin Zhou Dai County Shanxi Province.
疫情现状：忻州市确诊7例，代县0例，所在社区已进行封闭式管理。
Status quo: Xin zhou confirmed 7 cases, Daxian 0 cases, the community has been closed management.
“我爸妈又出门聚会了，让我不解的是他们明明知道事情很严重。
"My parents went out to the party again and what puzzled me was that they knew it was serious.
”。
"
提起父母出门聚会，张钰有些无奈。
Mention parents go out party, Zhang Yu a little helpless.
正在新闻学专业读研的她，凭借对信息的敏感度，一早觉察到了疫情的严重性。
She was studying journalism, relying on the sensitivity to information, early detection of the severity of the epidemic.
彼时张钰的家乡——山西省忻州市代县尚未出现疑似或确诊病例，尽管如此，她还是第一时间到药店买好了口罩。
At that time, Zhang Yu's hometown - Xin Zhou Dai County, Shanxi Province has not been suspected or confirmed cases, but she was the first time to buy a pharmacy to buy a mask.
。
.
“我们家附近的药店里没有N95口罩，当时也并不清楚什么样的口罩有用，就买了厚一些的。
"We didn't have N95 masks in the drugstore near our house, and it wasn't clear what kind of mask would work, so I bought thicker ones.
”不过，买口罩容易，张钰真正的挑战是——劝说经常聚餐的父母放弃出门。
However, buying a mask is easy, and the real challenge for Zhang Yu is to persuade parents who regularly eat to give up going out.
。
.
于是，她开始每天跟父母讲述与疫情相关的新闻：全国确诊多少例、钟南山说了什么……不仅如此，张钰还在家庭群中转发各种类型的消息，让人恐慌的坏消息与看起来心安的好消息交替进行。
Therefore, she began to tell her parents daily about the epidemic: how many cases diagnosed in the country, what Zhong Nan Shan said... Not only that, Zhang Yu also transmitted various types of news in the family group, let people panic bad news and seemingly good news alternate.
。
.
后来，张钰家所在的小区门口贴出了告示，呼吁居民勤洗手、戴口罩、少外出。
Later, Zhang Yujia's residential area posted a notice, calling on residents to wash their hands, wear masks, less outside.
“告示对我爸作用不大，最近某个小区出现疑似病例的时候，我挺恐慌的，但我爸觉得还没确诊呢，没事儿。
"The notice didn't do much for Dad. I panicked recently when there was a suspected case in a neighborhood, but my dad didn't think it was all right.
”。
"
事实上，直至武汉封城当天，张钰的父母才了解到新型冠状病毒的可怕。
In fact, until the day Wuhan closed, Zhang Yu's parents only understand the new coronavirus terrible.
尽管如此，他们依然没有放弃年后家庭聚餐的打算。
Despite this, they still do not give up the family dinner plans after the year.
为了阻止家庭聚餐，张钰开始在家庭群里发那些疫情很严重的消息。
In order to prevent the family dinner, Zhang Yu began to family groups those very serious outbreak of the news.
。
.
“当时爸妈做出了让步——我和妹妹不用去，他们去参加就可以。
"My parents gave in -- my sister and I didn't have to go -- they just went.
后来在我的坚持下，答应暂时不出门。
Later, at my insistence, promised not to go out for a while.
”。
"
可是几天后，张钰的父母还是开着车出门聚餐了……。
However, a few days later, Zhang Yu's parents or driving out to dinner...
类型二：村头大喇叭说得都对。
Type Two: The village head speaker is right.
主人公：职场90后和他的60后父母。
The protagonist: Workplace 90 and his parents after 60.
坐标：山东省高密市柴沟镇某村。
Coordinates: a village in Chaigou Township, Gao Mi City, Shandong Province.
疫情现状：高密市确诊1例，柴沟镇0例，所在社区已进行封闭式管理。
Status quo: 1 case confirmed in Gao Mi city and 0 cases in Chai Gou town, the community has been closed management.
“初一上午我爸妈还在外面拜年，中午村里的大喇叭开始广播不让出门，下午立刻就没有人出门了。
On the morning of the new year, my parents were still out on the New Year's Day. At noon the big village trumpet began to stop the door.
”孙晓龙自嘲，“拼命给爸妈讲道理的我还不如村头的大喇叭。
"Sun Xiaolong laughed at himself." I'm not as loud as the village trumpet trying to reason with my parents.
”。
"
孙晓龙的家乡位于山东省高密市柴沟镇的一个村子里，当地对年俗十分看重，大年初一村民之间互相拜年是传统。
Sun Xiaolong's hometown is located in a village in Chaigou Town, Gao Mi City, Shandong Province.
由于工作原因，孙晓龙大年三十晚上才到家，刚回家他就向父母开启了“疫情唠叨模式”，提醒他们第二天不要出门拜年。
Because of his work, Sun Xiaolong arrived home in the evening of the Lunar New Year. He had just returned home and started his "epidemic nagging pattern" to remind them not to go out for the New Year.
尽管一再劝阻，不过在父母的眼中，初一哪有不拜年的道理，何况当时高密市并未出现确诊病例。
Despite repeated dissuasion, but in the parents' eyes, there is no reason not to visit the New Year, not to mention the high density city did not have confirmed cases.
。
.
“我费了半天口舌都没什么用，初一早上还有人到我们家里来拜年。
"I spent a lot of time talking to no avail, the new year came to our home early in the morning.
”不过，让孙晓龙感到庆幸的是，来自家拜年的亲戚中，有人在交谈中透露高密当地医院似乎出现疑似患者（新冠病毒肺炎）的信息。
But to his congratulation, some of his relatives who visited the Chinese capital during the Lunar New Year said the hospital appeared to have information about a suspected patient, the New Crown Virus pneumonia.
要是以前，他一定会质疑消息的真实性，这次却选择了沉默，毕竟这种介于谣言与事实之间的传言对父母更具有威慑力。
If before, he would have questioned the truth of the news, but this time chose to silence, after all, this kind of rumor between the rumor and the truth is more deterrent to parents.
。
.
果然，此时的父母开始动摇了，但仍未决定是否要出门。
Sure enough, the parents began to shake, but still did not decide whether to go out.
中午，村里的大喇叭开始广播，提醒村民不要出门拜年，家人立刻同意了。
At noon, the village loudspeaker began to broadcast, reminding the villagers not to go out New Year, the family immediately agreed.
大年初二，村子里拉起横幅、贴上了告示：村外人员一律不得入内。
On the second day of New Year, the village lira banners, affixed notice: No one outside the village can enter.
。
.
也是从这一天起，孙晓龙的父母再也没有踏出过家门口一步。
From that day on, Sun's parents never stepped out of the door again.
“广播和拉横幅封村可能让我爸妈意识到疫情非同小可，总之比我跟他们讲道理有用多了。
"Broadcasts and banners may have made my parents realize that the epidemic is no small problem, and in any case it is more useful than my reasoning with them.
”。
"
类型三：不戴口罩要被处罚？那戴吧。
Type III: Penalties for not wearing a mask? Wear it.
主人公：和父母同居的90后。
Main character: and parents live together after 90.
坐标：北京市朝阳区。
Coordinates: Beijing Chaoyang District.
疫情现状：北京市确诊375例，朝阳区58例，所在社区已进行封闭式管理。
Status quo: 375 cases diagnosed in Beijing, 58 cases in Chaoyang District, the community has been closed management.
“我爸太倔了，只有逛超市的时候才戴口罩，因为不戴口罩不让进。
"My dad was so stubborn that he wore a mask only when he was visiting the supermarket because he was not allowed in without a mask.
”蒋媛吐槽。
Jiang Yuan threw up the slot.
。
.
1月20日，北京市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例的数量为5例，当天中国工程院院士钟南山宣布新冠病毒存在“人传人”的现象。
On January 20, the number of cases of pneumonia with the new coronavirus in Beijing was 5. Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, announced that there was a human-to-human transmission of the virus.
1月21日，家住北京市朝阳区的蒋媛意识到此次病毒来势汹汹，开始大量购买口罩、消毒液、医用酒精、棉球等物品。
On January 21, Jiang Yuan, who lives in the Chaoyang district of Beijing, realized the virus was threatening and began buying masks, disinfectants, medical alcohol, cotton balls and so on.
。
.
“我跟我爸妈住在一起，一回到家我就跟他们说出门记得戴口罩。
"I live with my parents and when I get home I tell them to remember to wear a mask when I go out.
我妈还算听话，但我爸坚决不戴。
My mother was a good listener, but my dad was adamant.
老头儿太倔了，说不听。
The old man is stubborn and won't listen.
”蒋媛的爸爸对于戴口罩这件事情十分排斥，在他看来当年SARS严重的时候都自己都没戴口罩，对于这个离自己有些遥远的病毒，更没有戴口罩的必要。
Jiang's father, repulsive about wearing a mask, said he didn't wear one when he saw SARS as serious, and had no need to wear one for the virus that was a long way off.
。
.
2月初，全国确诊病例呈现急剧增长的态势，北京市的确诊病例超过160例，蒋媛家所在的朝阳区出现将近30例的确诊病例。
In early February, there was a sharp rise in the number of confirmed cases nationwide, with more than 160 confirmed cases in Beijing and nearly 30 confirmed cases in the Chaoyang region, where Jiang is located.
“我们社区给每家都发了宣传单，提醒减少外出、出门配戴口罩。
"Our community has sent out leaflets to every family reminding them to go out and wear masks.
当小区里的人几乎全部戴上口罩的时候，我爸还是坚持不戴。
When almost all the people in the neighborhood wore masks, my father insisted on not wearing them.
所以就出现了令人哭笑不得的一幕，老头儿出门买菜不戴口罩，逛超市的时候戴上，一出门口立马摘掉。
So there is a crying scene, the old man went out to buy vegetables do not wear masks, wearing supermarket, immediately removed from the door.
”。
"
蒋媛不是没有跟父亲抗争过，为了逼他戴口罩，什么招数都用过。
Jiang Yuan did not fight his father, in order to force him to wear masks, all the moves have been used.
终于某次的“争吵”起了作用——“我跟我爸说，如果你出门不戴口罩，我戴又有什么意义？”然而，这种半威胁式的劝说的效果也只是维持了几天。
At last a "brawl" came into play - "What am I supposed to wear if you go out and don't wear a mask?" However, this semi-threatening persuasion only lasted a few days.
。
.
2月7日，北京召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会，发布会上表示对于在人员密集场所不佩戴口罩、不听从劝阻甚至引发矛盾冲突的人，将由公安机关依照《治安管理处罚法》予以处罚，轻则处以警告，重则处以拘留。
On February 7, 2007, Beijing held a press conference on the prevention and control of pneumonia related to a new coronavirus infection. At the press conference, people who do not wear masks and do not listen to dissuasion or even conflict in crowded places will be punished by the public security organs in accordance with the Law on Public Security Administration.
。
.
当蒋媛将这一消息告知父亲，这场“较量”终于告一段落。
When Jiang Yuan told her father the news, the "contest" was finally over.
“自从听说不戴口罩可能会被处罚，我爸立马戴上了口罩。
"My dad put on a mask immediately after hearing that he would be punished for not wearing one.
”。
"
类型四：对别人负责，对自己负责。
Type IV: Be accountable to others and to yourself.
主人公：90后建筑女和她的60后父母。
Main character: 90 post-construction woman and her 60-year-old parents.
坐标：山东省高密市。
Coordinates: Gao Mi City, Shandong Province.
疫情现状：高密市确诊1例，所在社区已进行封闭式管理。
Situation: 1 case was diagnosed in Gao Mi city, and the community has been under close management.
“从网上开始呼吁大家不要出门时，我就对我爸妈说，过年要不别出门了吧，如果出门戴好口罩。
"Starting from the Internet to appeal to everyone not to go out, I told my parents, New Year's Day or not to go out, if you go out wearing a mask.
他们一口答应了，我很意外。
I was surprised when they agreed.
因为事前我已经打好草稿准备跟他们长篇大论了。
Because I had already typed out a rough draft to give them a long speech.
”。
"
事实上，从事工程造价的李玉，常年在外地工作，春节回家之前，她的父母并不清楚新冠病毒肺炎疫情的相关情况。
In fact, Li Yu, who works in the field all year round, did not know about the SARS outbreak until Spring Festival, when she returned home.
而李玉则较早关注到武汉疫情：“本来元旦期间想去武汉去玩，所以对那边的新闻挺关注的。
Li Yu, on the other hand, was concerned about the situation in Wuhan: "I wanted to go to Wuhan during the New Year's Day, so I was very concerned about the news there.
当时新闻报道说武汉出现了20几个确诊病例，后来数量涨着涨着就停了，我就没再关注。
At that time, news reports said that Wuhan appeared more than 20 confirmed cases, and then the number rose and stopped, I did not pay attention to.
”。
"
1月20日，李玉从上海返回山东省高密市，据她回忆，一路上没有人讨论或关注疫情，自己戴的防雾霾口罩也在上车的时候摘了下来。
On January 20, Li Yu returned from Shanghai to Gao Mi City, Shandong Province, where she remembered that no one had discussed or followed the outbreak and that her smog mask had been removed as she got on the bus.
。
.
回到家以后，一次偶然的看病经历让她重拾对疫情的关注。
Back home, an occasional medical experience brought her back to the epidemic.
1月22日当天，在问诊过程中，李玉被护士要求戴上口罩，随后在与医生的交谈中得知，外地已存在口罩脱销的情况。
On January 22, during the consultation, Li Yu was asked by the nurse to put on a mask, and later learned from a conversation with the doctor that there were cases of masks being sold out of the field.
尽管彼时山东省卫健委尚未通报出现疑似或确诊病例，从医院离开后，李玉还是决定要多买一些口罩。
Li Yu decided to buy more masks after leaving the hospital, although Shandong Wei Bodyguard Commission had not yet reported a suspected or confirmed case.
。
.
此后，为了让父母了解疫情的情况，李玉开始每天向父母汇报与疫情相关的新闻，一直在为劝说父母过年不出门做铺垫。
Since then, in order to let parents know the situation, Li Yu began to report daily to their parents about the epidemic situation, and has been trying to persuade their parents not to go out for Spring Festival.
不过，谁也没想到劝说的过程会如此顺利。
However, no one expected that the process of persuasion would go so smoothly.
为此，李玉专门问了一下父母原因，他们的回答很简单“对别人负责，对自己负责。
For this reason, Li Yu specifically asked her parents why, and their answer was simple: "To others, to themselves."
”。
"
“对别人负责，对自己负责。
"To be accountable to others and to yourself.
虽然官方，但我们家贯彻的就是这么彻底。
Officially, however, this is exactly what our family is trying to do.
”李玉说。
"said Li Yu.
。
.
文中提到的各种类型的父母并非特例，早在疫情发生初期，类似“如何劝说父母戴上口罩”的话题就曾登上微博热搜榜，比起儿女的劝阻，中国式父母似乎更倾向于信赖社区的宣传、新闻报道甚至家庭群中信源不明的消息。
In the early days of the epidemic, when topics such as "how to persuade parents to wear masks" were on the Weibo hot list, Chinese parents seemed more likely to rely on community propaganda, news reports and even dubious sources in the family than their children.
。
.
事实上，国家针对社区的疫情控制措施仍在完善加强，在2月11日国务院联防联控机制举行的新闻发布会上，国家卫生健康委基层卫生健康司司长聂春雷指出：“财政部门已经下达了2020年的基本公共卫生服务经费，明确今年新增的经费要全部用于乡村和城市社区的疫情防控。
At a press conference held on February 11 by the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, Nie Chunlei, chief of the Primary Health Care Department of the State Council, said: "The financial departments have already allocated funds for basic public health services in 2020.
”此外，各地也在不断强化针对疫情的社区网格化管理，这在一定程度上减少了普通人随意出门、外出不佩戴口罩的情况。
In addition, community-based grid management of the epidemic has been stepped up, which has helped to reduce the number of people who go out of their homes and do not wear masks.
。
.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎引发的连锁反应仍在继续，随着各行各业返工复工大潮的来临，中国当代年轻人与父母之间的“拔河”仍在继续……。
The chain reaction caused by the pneumonia of the new coronavirus continues, and the tug-of-war between China's young people and their parents continues as rework resumes in all walks of life.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
1月乘用车销量创15年来最大跌幅 多家自主品 。
Passenger car sales hit their biggest drop in 15 years in January.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、复工在即，年轻人走后，父母还会坚   。
When work is around the corner, parents will stick it out when the young people leave.
2、缺乏定价基础 银保监会禁止保险公   。
Lack of Pricing Basis The CBRC prohibits insurance companies.
3、外汇局副局长宣昌能：对受疫情影响   。
Vice President of the Foreign Exchange Bureau Xuanchang: affected by the epidemic.
4、蔚来汽车今年已融资2亿美元 推行员   。
4, Ulilai Automobile has raised $200 million in promoters this year.
5、证监会副主席阎庆民：A股市场经受   。
5, Securities and Futures Commission vice-chairman Yan Qingmin: A-share market experience.
6、银保监会副主席梁涛：对受疫情影响   。
Liang Tao, Vice Chairman of the CBRC: Affected by the epidemic.
7、央行副行长范一飞：落实好金融支持   。
Vice President Fan Yifai of the Central Bank: Implementing Good Financial Support.
8、央行开出27张罚单剑指反洗钱 三家   。
The Central Bank has issued 27 tickets for anti-money laundering.
9、疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取   。
9, the epidemic situation of the North drift back to the road: a flight to pick up.
10、快讯 ｜ 湖北省新冠肺炎新增2420例   。
10, fast news, Hubei Province new crown pneumonia new 2420 cases.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
