疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次，有人无法出城 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
The back-to-work route for the northerners: some flights were cancelled four times and people were unable to get out of the city-Economic Watch-Professional Finance News website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="刘晓林";。
Var auther = & quot; Liu Xiaolin & quot;;
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次，有人无法出城。
The northward drift of the epidemic: some flights have been canceled four times and some people have been unable to leave the city.
刘晓林2020-02-15 11:06。
Liu Xiaolin 2020-02-15 11: 06.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网记者 刘晓林郭有信 2月13日下午，刘女士手机收到一条来自12306的短信，告知其购买的2月27日信阳回北京的高铁停运，提醒其及时退票。
On the afternoon of Feb. 13, Ms. Liu received a text message from 12306 informing her of the suspension of the high-speed rail service to Beijing on February 27, reminding her of a timely refund.
这是刘女士作为备选的返程车票，她庆幸还有机票可用。
This is Ms. Liu as an alternative return ticket, and she is thankful that tickets are still available.
但第二天中午，她最担心的电话来了，携程通知她2月23日信阳至北京的航班也取消了。
But at noon the next day, her most worried phone call came, and Ctrip informed her that the February 23 flight from Xinyang to Beijing had also been canceled.
。
.
这是刘女士第二次接到航班取消通知，第一次是携程通知其2月12日的航班取消。
This is Ms. Liu's second flight cancellation notice, the first time Ctrip informed its February 12 flight cancellation.
从春节后至今，她已经取消了四次机票订单、三次高铁票订单。
She has cancelled four airline tickets and three high-speed rail tickets since the Spring Festival.
。
.
2月10日，北京各企业的复工通知陆续发出，考虑到回到北京后要被隔离14天，大部分离京人员都在可能的情况下开始安排回程计划。
On February 10, Beijing companies sent out notices of resumption of work, considering that most of those who left Beijing would be quarantined for 14 days after returning to Beijing.
但是，能否回京、如何回京却并不是自己能够掌控的。
But whether or not to return to Beijing, how to return to Beijing is not their own control.
。
.
尤其对于住在小县城、乡镇的人们，在公共交通全部停摆、关卡重重的情况下，从家门到每一个中转交通站点，直至到达高铁站、机场的每一段路都艰难异常。
In particular, people living in small counties, towns and villages, in the public transport all stop, heavy barriers, from the home to every transit traffic stop, until the high-speed rail station, the airport every section of the road.
。
.
比刘女士幸运，家住四川眉山的宋女士2月7日成功返京，但手持机票的她也历经周折，花了9个小时才抵达北京。
Ms. Song, who lives in Mei Shan, Sichuan, was lucky to be back in Beijing on February 7, but it took her nine hours to get to Beijing with her ticket.
越来越多的人意识到，在这场疫情防控中，与北上广等大城市相比，层级越低的地方乡镇，管的越严，“离境”手续越复杂。
There is a growing awareness that, in the prevention and control of the epidemic, the lower the level of local towns and villages, the more complicated the "exit" procedures are compared with the larger cities such as Northbound.
。
.
对此，每个人都能理解，这是疫情非常时期的非常举措，是为了全国一盘棋的安全。
In this regard, everyone can understand that this is an extraordinary epidemic in times of emergency, for the safety of the whole country.
但在复工的现实需求下，返京是必然的选择，在流动中防控也成为不得不面对的风险。
However, under the realistic demand of returning to work, return to Beijing is the inevitable choice, in the flow of control has also become to face the risk.
。
.
无论在东北、四川，还是河南。
Whether in Northeast, Sichuan, or Henan.
每一个返京的“候鸟”都经历了和将要经历一场最艰难的“迁徙”。
Every "migratory bird" who returns to Beijing has experienced and will undergo one of the most difficult "migrations."
他们亲眼看到了这个国家在最大程度控制疫情流动风险上所作的努力，也亲身感受了在突发重大疫情的危机情况下，这场焦虑的等待和这次安静的旅程中无奈与希望的并存。
They have seen for themselves the country's efforts to minimize the risk of a major outbreak of disease, and have experienced first-hand the coexistence of this anxious wait and the helplessness and hope of this quiet journey in the midst of a major pandemic crisis.
。
.
晨曦中出发：一次最安静的旅程。
Departure in the morning: A quietest journey.
在接到公司通知2月10日上班后，宋女士决定在2日初启程返京。
After receiving notification from the company to go to work on Feb. 10, Ms. Song decided to leave for Beijing early February 2.
她需要先坐高铁到成都双流机场，再乘坐飞机返京。
She needs to take the high-speed train to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport before flying back to Beijing.
但县城内的公交、滴滴、大巴车陆续发布通知宣布停运，交通系统全部停摆。
However, the county's public transport, drip, bus issued successive announcements to stop the operation of the transport system all stop.
。
.
2月7日，从县城通往成都双流机场的高铁恢复运营，但如何从家里前往高铁站也是难题。
The high-speed rail link from the county seat to Chengdu Shuangliu Airport resumed operation on February 7, but access to the high-speed rail station from home is also a challenge.
通过一番波折，宋女士的父亲终于跟邻居借到一辆两轮电动车。
After some twists and turns, Ms. Song's father finally borrowed a two-wheeled electric car from his neighbor.
2月7日早上6点30分，父女俩搭着一个28寸的行李箱，戴好口罩一前一后挤在电动车上，趁着微微的晨曦驶向10公里外的高铁站。
On February 7 at 6: 30 am, father and daughter in a 28-inch suitcase, wearing masks in front of a crowded electric car, taking advantage of the light of dawn to 10 kilometers away on the high-speed railway station.
。
.
寒风凌冽，在小区检测体温放行之后，父女俩在即将到达高铁站的最后一道检查路口被拦了下来，因为头部吹过冷风之后，检察人员的体温计一时检测不出体温。
Cold wind Lingling, after the cell temperature clearance, father and daughter are about to reach the last checkpoint at the high-speed rail station was blocked, because after the head blowing cold, the inspector's thermometer can not detect temperature for a while.
在父女俩稍作休息、再次体温测试正常之后，检查人员予以放行。
After a short rest and a normal temperature test, the inspectors released the couple.
。
.
夜色中的高铁站只开了一道窄小的侧门，加上所有的乘客和工作人员，高铁站里一共不超过20个人。
The high-speed rail station in the dark has only a narrow side door, plus all the passengers and staff, there are no more than 20 people in the station.
在排队检测体温的时候，即使工作人员没有提出要求，但大家都自觉保持了一米左右的间距。
When queuing for a temperature check, everyone consciously kept to a distance of about one metre, even if the staff did not request it.
。
.
“进入候车室之后，大家也都分散候车，没有扎堆。
"When we got into the waiting room, we all dispersed and did not pile up.
高铁站里有着不同寻常的安静，所有人都带着口罩，虽然有些人的口罩并不符合要求，那应该也是没有办法，口罩确实难买，有总比没有强。
The high-speed rail station has an unusual quiet, all wear masks, although some people do not meet the requirements, that should be no way, the mask is really difficult to buy, there is better than no.
我穿了一次性雨衣，带了一次性塑料手套和墨镜，很多人都穿了跟我一样的装备，还有人头上带着裁剪过的塑料桶……就是图个心理安慰，希望自己不要接触到细菌。
I wore a disposable raincoat, disposable plastic gloves and sunglasses, a lot of people were wearing the same equipment as me, and others had clipped plastic buckets on their heads.
”宋女士回忆起这趟难忘的行程称。
"Ms. Song recalls the memorable itinerary.
上了高铁，乘务员也给所有乘客再次测试了体温。
On the high-speed train, the conductor also took the temperature of all the passengers again.
。
.
（图片来源：EEO记者）。
(Source: EEO Reporter).
到达成都双流机场后，人流同样比平时少了一大半，安检那里基本不用排队，好像也没有特别加强哪些安检措施，宋女士也不知到双流机场是不是用的红外线热像仪等仪器已经检查过体温了。
After arriving at Chengdu Shuangliu Airport, the passenger flow is also more than half less than usual, security checks there are basically no line-up, as if there is no special security measures, Ms. Song did not know whether the Shuangliu Airport infrared thermal imaging equipment has been used to check the body temperature.
。
.
飞机上的人也特别少，一排8座的飞机，没排也就2-3个人，而且座位都是隔开的，“不知道是乘客自己选的还是航空公司对选座进行了设置”，宋女士说，起飞后，乘务员就马上发放了乘客信息表，需要乘客填写自己今天的行程、到达住处、有无湖北接触史、体温是否正常等信息。
There were also very few people on the plane. There were two or three people in an eight-seater row, and the seats were separated. "I don't know if the passengers picked themselves up or if the airlines set up the seats," Song said.
。
.
“绝大部分乘客都没有在飞机上用餐。
"Most of the passengers didn't eat on the plane.
”宋女士也没有选择餐食。
Ms Song also did not choose a meal.
下了飞机，在进入到达大厅时，宋女士看到了首都机场设置的红外线热像仪，有4、5个工作人员在检查通过人员的体温数据。
When she got off the plane and entered the arrival hall, Ms. Song saw the infrared thermograph set up at the Capital Airport. Four or five staff members were checking the temperature data of the passing people.
幸运的是，这趟航班暂未检测到体温异常的乘客。
Luckily, no passengers with abnormal body temperature were detected on this flight.
。
.
到达在北京居住的小区时，宋女士看到小区门口临时搭建了一个检查岗亭，有3位工作人员守在小区门口。
Arriving in the residential area in Beijing, Ms. Song saw a temporary site set up in front of the residential area, there are three staff members guarding the door.
在登记了宋女士的行程信息、居住信息、个人信息后，检查人员叮嘱要做好7天的自我隔离，就对宋女士进行了放行。
After registering Ms. Song's itinerary information, residence information and personal information, the inspectors asked to do a good job of self-isolation for seven days, Ms. Song was released.
。
.
“看来这几天要多派人好好守着了，回来的人越来越多了，这是今天第7个吧。
"It seems to be a few days to send more people to good, more and more people back, this is today's seventh bar.
”拖着行李进入小区的宋女士听见工作人员在身后嘀咕道。
"Ms. Song, trailing her luggage into the community, heard the staff mutter behind her.
。
.
第二天远在四川的父亲就打来电话告知，县城已全部封死了，只准出不准进，而宋女士居住的北京小区也在2月14日发布了公告，每户每天只允许一人凭借出入证外出一次（两小时）采买生活用品，防控程度显然再次升级了。
The next day his father in Sichuan called to say that the county had been completely sealed off, and the Beijing district where Ms. Song lives issued a notice on Feb. 14, allowing only one person a day to use a pass to buy supplies, and the level of control has apparently escalated again.
。
.
取消了四次的机票和三次的高铁票。
Four cancellations and three high-speed rail tickets were cancelled.
把机票和高铁票都退了之后，联想到早上哥哥打电话过来说信阳市要效仿湖北各市，实行最严小区管理、严禁居民外出的消息，刘女士意识到，短期内自己可能真的没有办法回北京了。
After returning the ticket and the high-speed train ticket, Lenovo realized that she might not be able to go back to Beijing in the short term after her brother called in the morning to say that Xinyang would follow the example of Hubei cities by imposing the strictest neighbourhood regulations and banning residents from going out.
。
.
在取消了四次机票订单、三次高铁票订单后，刘女士的返京时间已经一推再推。
Ms. Liu's return to Beijing has been pushed back after cancelling four air-ticket orders and three high-speed rail tickets.
除夕前几天，定居北京的刘女士带孩子回到信阳父母家过年。
A few days before New Year's Eve, Ms. Liu, who settled in Beijing, took her children back to Xinyang to celebrate the New Year.
她最早订的返程机票是2月1日大年初八的，但该行程因为疫情处于爆发期，家人担忧其带孩子出行的安全而放弃。
Her earliest round-trip air ticket came on Feb. 1, but the trip was aborted because the outbreak was in full swing and family members were worried about the safety of their children.
2月6日，她改签的2月12日航班被通知取消，她继续抢到了2月14日的机票，但哥哥告知在公共交通全部暂停的情况下，信阳对私家车也实行了单双号限行，家里的车是单号，2月14日没法把她和孩子送到机场，刘女士不得已再次退票，改定2月23日的机票，同时抢到了2月27日的两张一等座。
On 6 February, her rescheduled flight of 12 February was cancelled and she continued to seize the 14 February ticket, but her brother informed her that the private car was also restricted to a single number and that she and her children could not be delivered to the airport on February 14.
。
.
对于2月23日机票又一次被取消，刘女士虽然意外，但也有一定的心理准备。
For the February 23 ticket was again cancelled, Ms. Liu although accidental, but also a certain degree of psychological preparation.
她在携程上查询的结果显示，2月份接下来所有的航班都被取消了，最早飞北京的航班是3月1日。
Her search on Ctrip showed that all flights were canceled for the rest of February, with the earliest flight to Beijing on March 1.
1月14日，河南省发布最新公告，全省学校开学时间延迟到3月1日。
January 14, Henan Province issued the latest announcement, the provincial school opening time delayed to March 1.
3月1日成为人们生活重启的新时间点。
March 1 marks a new point in people's lives.
。
.
作为京广线上的重要站点，以及全国较大的外出务工城市，信阳是京广线途径河南省的最后一站，也是紧邻湖北武汉的一站。
As an important site on the Beijing-Guangzhou line, as well as a large migrant city in China, Xinyang is the last stop on the Beijing-Guangzhou line through Henan Province and a stop in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
数十趟高铁经过信阳后的下一站不是武汉站，就是汉口站。
The next stop after dozens of high-speed trains passing through Xinyang is either Wuhan or Hankou Station.
而从信阳到北京的高铁也几乎全都从武汉开过来。
Almost all the high-speed trains from Xinyang to Beijing come from Wuhan.
。
.
（图片来源：EEO记者）。
(Source: EEO Reporter).
新冠肺炎发生后，武汉封城、交通停止，从信阳到北京的高铁也从20多个车次锐减为9个，而且都改道由从江西、广西、广东等地始发，未经武汉或经武汉不停。
After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Wuhan, traffic stopped, from Xinyang to Beijing from more than 20 high-speed rail from the number of cars have been drastically reduced to 9, and all from Jiangxi, Guangxi, Guangdong, and other places, without Wuhan or non-stop.
后来又减少为只剩4个车次，且为了安全，严格控制上座率。
It was later reduced to only four vehicles and, for safety reasons, the occupancy rate was strictly controlled.
对于每年春节都面临一票难求的信阳市巨大返京人流而言，大部分高铁票已经连候补的机会都没有了。
Most high-speed rail tickets don't even have the chance to stand by for the huge crowds returning to Beijing in Xinyang, which faces a tough Spring Festival every year.
机票也很紧张，并非每天都有余票。
Tickets are also tight and not always available.
刘女士的几次高铁票要么是捡漏抢得的，要么是候补所得（等发现候补成功时，距离开车已经只有两个小时，来不及了。
Ms. Liu's several high-speed rail tickets were either picked up or taken in reserve (waiting for her to be found out she was two hours too late to drive.
）时间完全随机。
) Time is absolutely random.
。
.
信阳市发布的官方统计信息显示，在户籍人口800万、常住人口600多万的信阳市，春节期间来自湖北的人口有8万，来自武汉的有7万，包括探亲和从武汉高校返乡的学生。
According to official statistics released by the city of Xinyang, with a population of 8 million and a resident population of more than 6 million, 80,000 people from Hubei Province will visit during the Spring Festival and 70,000 will come from Wuhan, including family visits and students returning from Wuhan University.
这也使得新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，信阳很快超越郑州成为河南确诊病例最多的城市。
This also makes the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Xinyang soon overtook Zhengzhou as the city with the most confirmed cases in Henan.
。
.
截至2月12日，信阳市确诊病例增至240例。
As at 12 February, the number of confirmed cases in Xinyang had increased to 240.
2月10日开始，每日新增病例开始降到个位数，但由于刘女士家附近小区发生了一例确证，且该病患在市区人流量最大的超市工作，一时间风声鹤唳。
Starting on February 10, the number of new cases per day began to drop to single digits, but due to a confirmed case in the neighbourhood near Ms. Liu's house and the patient's work in a supermarket with the highest traffic in the city, jittery for a time.
2月初开始其所在小区实行封闭式管理，每户每五天只允许一人出入。
At the beginning of February, its neighbourhood was under closed management, with only one person allowed in and out every five days.
小区里的车早已出不去，停在小区外的车也基本没有动过。
The car in the small district already cannot get out, park outside the car also basically did not move.
。
.
机票和高铁票都被取消后，刘女士只能候补了几天后单号日子的高铁票，剩下来能做的就是等运气。
After the cancellation of both the ticket and the high-speed rail ticket, Ms. Liu can only reserve a few days after the single day of high-speed rail tickets, the rest can do is to wait for luck.
同时也静下心来继续在线工作、陪陪父母，毕竟这种长时间的团聚并不容易获得。
Also calm down to continue to work online, accompany parents, after all this long-term reunion is not easy to obtain.
。
.
在封城中等待转机。
Waiting in the city for a change.
改签、退票已经成为在京工作人员都面临着的常态，每次退票，携程官网都会提醒：当前退票订单较多，需要较长时间等待。
Re-sign, refund has become a normal situation for staff in Beijing, each time returned tickets, Ctrip official website will remind: the current more refund order, it takes a long time to wait.
而随着疫情变化，防疫管控不断升级成为影响返京计划的最大变数。
With the change of epidemic situation, epidemic control has become the biggest variable that affects the return to Beijing.
这些被“困”在家乡的人，只能等待可行的返程时机。
Trapped in their homeland, these people can only wait for a viable return.
。
.
家在四川北部某县城的王先生同样在不断的行程“退订”中。
Home in the north of Sichuan a county Mr. Wang is also in the continuous itinerary "cancellation."
他原本预定了2月2日返回北京的机票，但由于获悉在京租住的小区实行严格管制，租住人员不得返回小区，需要在外隔离14天后才能进入小区。
He had been scheduled to return to Beijing on February 2, but was told that strict controls in Beijing's rented quarters prevented renters from returning to the compound, which required 14 days of isolation.
因此，王先生推迟了返京时间。
As a result, Mr. Wang postponed his return to Beijing.
为以防返回北京机票紧张，他早早预定了2月12日的机票以及2月19的机票，但这两个航班都先后取消了。
He booked the Feb. 12 flight and the Feb. 19 ticket well in advance to avoid a tense flight back to Beijing, but both flights were canceled.
。
.
航空公司工作人员告诉王先生，在航班取消情况下，可以免费为其更改航班，但次数仅为1次。
The airline staff told Mr. Wang that flights could be changed for him free of charge if the flight was cancelled, but only once.
但此时，王先生发现，自己已经无法离开县城了。
But at this time, Mr. Wang found that he could not leave the county seat.
“高速和省道口都有交警把守，如果你离开县城，再回来需要隔离14天。
"Traffic police are on the highway and at the provincial gates, and if you leave the county, it takes 14 days to get back in quarantine.
”王先生说，这意味着无论谁送他走回来都要被隔离，面临无法回家的结果。
Mr. Wang said that meant that whoever sent him back would be quarantined and would not be able to return home.
此外，街道要求出外务工的人员提供单位工作证明以及健康证，所幸的是后者由当地医院提供免费检测。
In addition, street workers are required to provide work certificates and health certificates, which, fortunately, are provided free of charge by local hospitals.
。
.
（疫情前的高铁运输）。
(High-speed rail transport before the outbreak).
从2月11日开始，因为与成都交界处的一个小镇出现两例确诊，王先生所在县城的查验更加严格，如今几乎已经找不到任何方式前往成都机场。
Since February 11, because of two confirmed cases in a small town on the border with Chengdu, Mr. Wang's county has been under tighter scrutiny and has been unable to find any way to get to Chengdu airport.
“大巴早就停了，网约车和出租车也停了。
"The bus stopped long ago, and so did the limousine and taxi.
本来隔壁县还有个高铁站，本来上周还保留了每天晚上唯一的一班列车，现在也全部取消了。
There was a high-speed train station in the county next door, which was the only train left every night last week, and now it's all cancelled.
”王先生说。
'said Mr. Wang.
。
.
王先生说，自己家只有一辆私家车，除非是自己开到北京，不然没有办法出行。
Mr. Wang said that his home only a private car, unless they drive to Beijing, there is no way to travel.
“我每天都在老乡群和同学群里呼喊，问问有没有顺路捎带一下。
"Every day I yell in the crowd of fellow villagers and ask if there is a way to take a message.
但是现在很难找到人，大部分人都在家里不会出门。
But it's hard to find people, and most people don't go out at home.
”。
"
与此同时，在内蒙看雪的江莹说她“每晚都会焦虑”。
Meanwhile, Jiang Ying, watching snow in Inner Mongolia, said she was "anxious every night."
就在下周一（2月16日），部分外地回京的同事即将开始在完成隔离后正式返岗上班，而江莹还困在老家内蒙。
Just next Monday (Feb. 16), some of her colleagues returning to Beijing will be returning to work after the quarantine, while Jiang is still stranded in her hometown.
“虽然可以远程办公，但连不上公司内网，很多工作都没有正常开展”。
"Although telecommuting is possible, it's not connected to the company's intranet and a lot of work is not being done properly," he said.
。
.
2月14日，赤峰的雪下了一天，小区内小广场上留下了几串稀疏的脚印，远处的马路上，许久都不见一辆车驶过，飘落的雪花让江莹的心头又蒙上了一层阴影——回京更难了。
On February 14, the snow in Chifeng one day, the small square left a few sparse footprints, the road in the distance, a long time did not see a car passing, the falling snow makes Jiang Ying heart a layer of shadow - it is even more difficult to return to Beijing.
。
.
江莹已经很难一下说出退过多少次火车票，“至少有五次了”，江莹回忆道，正常情况下，春运期间抢票也是一件极其头疼的事，因为赤峰市没有铁路与京广线、京九线、京沪线相接，所有南下的人都需要在北京中转，北京也就成了节后返程人群的主要目的地。
"At least five times," Jiangying recalled, "the rush of tickets during the Spring Festival was a major headache, as Chifeng had no rail connecting to the Beijing-Guangzhou, Beijing-Guangzhou and Beijing-Shanghai lines.
而新冠肺炎疫情让抢票变得更加困难。
And the new crown pneumonia epidemic has made ticket grabs more difficult.
。
.
因为疫情以及隔离措施的影响，江莹曾抢到一张1月30日的火车票，但因为春节假期延长的消息江莹选择了退票，也至此开启了数次的退票之旅。
Because of the epidemic and the impact of quarantine measures, Jiang Ying had seized a January 30 train ticket, but because of the extension of the Spring Festival Jiang Ying chose to refund tickets, also began a number of ticket refunds.
。
.
1月25日，在确诊病例增加至7例后，内蒙古启动了重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
On 25 January, following an increase in the number of confirmed cases to seven, Inner Mongolia launched a first-level response to major public health emergencies.
很快‘赤峰市采取了和中国所有城市相同的相关管控措施——公共交通停运，由于所在区县距赤峰市火车站有一百多公里，江莹开始感受到了回京的困难，随后通往赤峰市的火车也由4班改为上午两班，而从赤峰开往北京的火车大部分在晚上七点后发车。
Soon after Chifeng took the same control measures as all Chinese cities, public transportation was suspended. Because the county was more than 100 kilometers away from Chifeng City railway station, Jiang Ying began to feel the difficulty of returning to Beijing.
管控措施之下，江莹无奈退了第二张火车票。
Under the control measures, Jiang Ying reluctantly returned the second train ticket.
。
.
不久后，赤峰市开始出现确诊病例，管控措施升级，私家车出入也受到限制。
Soon after, confirmed cases began to appear in Chifeng City. Control measures were upgraded and private cars were restricted.
江莹开始重新买票，结果发现航班减少，机票仅剩为数不多的头等舱，火车票更是处于无票状态。
Jiang Ying began to re-purchase tickets, the results found that the number of flights, ticket only a few first-class, train tickets are in the state.
多个软件刷票后，终于抢到了一张2月6日的软卧。
After several software scrubbing tickets, finally snatched a soft berth on February 6.
。
.
就在江莹为出行作准备之时，其所在的区出现了确诊病例，一时间往来其他区县的路口都开始设卡，在外县乡镇工作的家人甚至被要求常驻单位。
While Jiang Ying was preparing for the trip, there were confirmed cases in her district, blocks began to be set up to travel to and from other districts and counties, and family members working in the townships were even asked to stay in their places of residence.
江莹开始在拼车群里四处寻找去市里的车，几度沟通终于找到一辆车，但随后管控措施再度升级，私家车不得驶出小区，同时市区方向对于江莹所在区域车辆检查严格，约好的拼车也告知去不了车站。
Jiang Ying began to carpool around looking for cars to go to the city, several communication finally found a car, but then control measures were upgraded, private cars are not allowed to drive out of the district, and the direction of the city for Jiangying District vehicle inspection strict, the agreed carpooling told not to go to the station.
而就在这之前，江莹已经去了街道、城区疾控中心开好了健康证明。
And just before that, Jiang Ying has gone to the streets, urban CDC opened a good health certificate.
。
.
如今，健康证明已经过期，家里并没有车的江莹仍然为回京的事发愁，一是机票、车票难抢，二是去火车站难题，她能做的只能是等待疫情出现好转。
Now that her health certificate has expired and Jiang Ying, who doesn't have a car at home, is still worried about returning to Beijing. One is the difficulty of getting tickets and tickets, the other is going to the railway station.
本文经「原本」原创认证，作者经济观察报，访问yuanben.io查询【2X69KXEM】获取授权信息。
This article is based on "Original" original certification, the author of the Economic Observer, visited yuanben.io [2X69 KXEM] for authorization information.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
刘晓林经济观察报部门主任。
Liu Xiaolin Economic Observer Department Director.
行业产业报道部主任。
Director, Industry Reporting Department.
关注汽车产业发展趋势、行业性事件、企业动态；全程记录国内新能源汽车的发端、升温、爆发，以及每一次新技术浪潮；对自动驾驶、造车新势力、汽车行业投资、上市公司资本运作以及汽车产业政策变动进行持续性报道。
Pay attention to automobile industry development trend, industry events, enterprise dynamics; record the beginning, warming up, explosion and every new technology wave of domestic new energy automobile; report continuously on auto driving, new power of car building, investment in automobile industry, capital operation of listed companies and automobile industry policy change.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
一位“驰援武汉”的货车司机：武汉还是那个 。
A "help Wuhan" truck driver: Wuhan or that.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
人事地震！朱新礼父女退出董事会 汇源果汁 。
Personnel earthquake! Zhu Xinli father and daughter withdrew from the board Huiyuan juice.
一家环保上市公司的复工首日：56%复工率， 。
First day of resumption of work for an environmental listed company: 56 per cent return to work.
1月乘用车销量创15年来最大跌幅 多家自主品 。
Passenger car sales hit their biggest drop in 15 years in January.
血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专家：有效 。
Clinical Expert on Plasma Antibody Injection into Coronary Pneumonia: Effective.
疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取消了四次 。
The return journey of the northerners: some flights have been cancelled four times.
透过“疫情”看物业管理行业的价值及应对困 。
Through the "epidemic" to see the value of the property management industry and deal with difficulties.
加码私募信披 中基协开辟投资者定向查询入 。
Add the code of private equity in the Association to open investors directional inquiry into.
1、疫情下北漂族的返岗路：有人航班取   。
1, the epidemic situation of the North drift back to the road: a flight to pick up.
2、快讯 ｜ 湖北省新冠肺炎新增2420例   。
2, Quick news, new crown pneumonia in Hubei province added 2420 cases.
3、快讯 | 国家卫健委：新冠肺炎新增   。
3. News & # # 124; & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Newcrown Pneumonia.
4、血浆抗体治疗投入新冠肺炎临床 专   。
4. Plasma antibody treatment into the clinical treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
5、吉利撤销对威马的部分诉讼 但索赔2   。
Geely withdraws part of the action against Wima but claims 2.
6、快讯 | 北京：所有返京人员到京后   。
Beijing: All its personnel have returned to Beijing.
7、境外资金瞄准中资美元债市场，不惧   。
Overseas capital shall be aimed at the Chinese dollar bond market without fear.
8、疫情之后油气贸易将回归增长轨道   。
After the outbreak, oil and gas trade will return to the growth track.
9、复工延迟、成本上升、原辅材供应紧   。
9. Delay in resumption of work, increased cost and tight supply of raw materials.
10、30条重磅举措！加速推进上海国际金   。
10, 30 heavy pounds move! Accelerate the promotion of Shanghai International Gold.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
