一千三百万张退票背后：曾有一万多人在客服电话中排队。
Behind the 13 million refunds: More than 10, 000 people lined up on customer service phones.
敬奕步。
Wheaty step.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲疫情期间，人们不能移动，机票取消，使得国内航空公司不得不合并、取消多数航班。
During the outbreak, people could not move and airline tickets were cancelled, forcing domestic airlines to merge and cancel most flights.
图为广州白云国际机场航站楼候机厅一角。
Pictured here is a corner of the terminal of Baiyun International Airport.
（南方周末记者 冯飞/图）全文共4406字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Feng Fei / picture) The full text of 4,406 words, reading about 8 minutes.
春运七天假期，民航旅客运输量仅651万人次，同比减少近一半，客座率仅51.7%。
During the seven-day Spring Festival, only 6.51 million passengers were transported by air, a reduction of nearly half the year-on-year.
截至2月4日，总共退票累计已超过1300万张。
As of February 4, a total of more than 13 million tickets had been returned.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 敬奕步南方周末实习生 龚柔善 叶梓责任编辑 | 张玥2020年2月11日，鲁宁就职的公司已经开工两天，但她仍在距离公司四千多公里外的新疆伊宁市老家。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; Southern Weekend Journalist & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
为了回上海上班，鲁宁买了三次机票，却都“被退票”了。
To go back to work in Shanghai, Luning bought three tickets, but were "refunded".
她最初在飞猪旅行买了一张2月5日的打折机票，却在航班起飞前两天收到了退票提醒。
She initially bought a discount ticket for Feb. 5 on a Pig trip, but received a reminder two days before the flight took off.
她又在去哪儿网买了一张2月10日的机票，这张票比上一张贵了1700元。
Where else did she buy a Feb. 10 ticket that was more than 1,700 yuan higher than the last one.
几天后，她再次收到了航班的退票提醒。
A few days later, she received another reminder of the flight's refund.
无奈之下，她改签了2月11日的机票，又在起飞前一天得知航班取消。
In desperation, she signed the 11 February ticket, and the day before the flight was cancelled.
“我当时都收拾好行李，准备走了。
"I was all packed and ready to go.
”鲁宁感到有点绝望。
"Runin felt a little desperate.
现在，她在家开启了线上办公模式。
Now, she's at home, opening up online office mode.
这个春节，受疫情冲击，人们的出行计划屡被改变。
This Spring Festival, by the epidemic, people's travel plans are often changed.
机票买了退、买了改的现象比比皆是。
The phenomenon that ticket bought return, bought changed is everywhere.
被改变的不只是个人行程。
It's not just the personal itinerary that's changed.
千万人在手机上按下“退票”的瞬间，无数订单砸向提供票务服务的互联网旅游平台。
Millions of people pressed "refunds" on their mobile phones, and countless orders were sent to internet travel platforms that provide ticketing services.
1月29日的携程，一度有1万多人在客服电话中排队。
At one point, more than 10,000 people lined up at a customer-service call in Ctrip on January 29.
一位航空公司员工对南方周末记者计算，近日航班量下降了七成。
An airline employee told Southern Weekend that the number of flights has fallen 70 percent in recent days.
2月7日，民航局运输司司长于彪表示，受疫情影响，加上民航相继出台免费退票政策，民航春运客流量大幅下降，春运七天假期，旅客运输量仅651万人次，同比减少近一半，客座率仅51.7%。
On February 7, the Secretary for Transport of the Civil Aviation Administration, Mr Yu Biao, said that the impact of the epidemic, coupled with the introduction of free ticket refunds by civil aviation, had led to a sharp drop in passenger traffic.
截至2月4日，总共退票累计已超过1300万张。
As of February 4, a total of more than 13 million tickets had been returned.
1点击“退票”之后这个春节，山西的梁怡也退了两次票。
One click "refund" after the Spring Festival, Shanxi's Liang Yi also returned two tickets.
第一次是取消去女友家拜年的机票。
The first time I cancelled a New Year call to my girlfriend's.
春节前，梁怡在飞猪旅行买了一张1月28日飞往长沙的经济舱打折机票。
Before the Spring Festival, Liang Yi bought an economy-class discounted ticket to Changsha on January 28 while traveling in Pigs.
加上机场建设费，这张南方航空的机票一共810元。
Together with the cost of airport construction, this Southern air ticket totals 810 yuan.
疫情发生后，紧邻湖北的湖南很快沦陷。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, Hunan Province immediately adjacent to Hubei fell.
1月21日，湖南长沙发现首例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
On January 21, the first confirmed case of new crown pneumonia was found in Changsha, Hunan.
考虑到疫情凶猛，梁怡与女友商量，取消了此次春节拜会。
In view of the fierce outbreak, Liang Yi and her girlfriend discussed, cancelled the Spring Festival meeting.
1月26日，他提交退票，收到“飞猪机票自营”发来的反馈信息：因近期航司退票量较大，处理时间相较平常会有所延长……预估提交退票后15个工作日内可以原路退回。
On January 26, he submitted a refund and received feedback from Self-Employed Pig Ticket: Due to the large volume of recent airline refunds, the processing time will be longer than usual...
9天后，他收到了退款。
Nine days later, he received a refund.
第二次退票是因为返工。
The second refund was for rework.
1月27日，梁怡再次通过飞猪旅行买了一张2月初南下的全价东方航空经济舱机票。
On January 27, Liang bought a full-price economy-class ticket southward from early February, again via Pig Travel.
第二天，广东发布《关于企业复工和学校开学时间的通知》，表示除四类特殊企业外，各类企业复工时间不早于2月9日24时。
The following day, Guangdong issued a Notice on the Resumption of Work by Enterprises and School Opening Hours, which indicated that, with the exception of four special enterprises, all types of enterprises could resume work no earlier than 2400 hours on February 9.
梁怡只好再次申请退票。
Liang Yi had to apply for a refund again.
这次退票比之前顺利得多，退票申请、受理、退款到账一分钟内全部完成。
The refund was much smoother than before. The refund application, processing and refund were all completed within one minute.
在这个春节，受疫情影响，这样的退票动作发生了数千万次。
In the Spring Festival, affected by the epidemic, such a refund action occurred tens of millions of times.
点击“退票”之后，后台发生了什么呢？去哪儿网人士告诉南方周末记者，2020年春节线上非自愿退款比例较平时高了七倍，往年退票最多的时候是除夕前两三天，但也不会达到平时的两倍。
People at Southern Weekend told Southern Weekend that the percentage of involuntary refunds on the Spring Festival Line in 2020 was seven times higher than usual, with the largest number of refunds occurring two or three days before New Year's Eve, but not twice as often.
她说，互联网售卖机票分为两类，一类是帮航空公司售票，另一类是代理商售票。
Internet tickets can be sold in two categories, one for airlines and the other for agents, she said.
前者退票时，平台对接航空公司，审核、退款都是航空公司完成；后者，平台将需求转给代理商，代理商审核完成后交给航空公司，再审核退票。
When the former is returned, the platform docks with the airline and checks and refunds are made by the airline. In the latter case, the platform transfers the demand to the agent, who reviews it and hands it over to the airline for refunds.
正常情况下，为了客户体验好，去哪儿网的退票退款是平台先垫付给消费者，再去跟航空公司结算。
Under normal circumstances, in order to have a good customer experience, where to refundable tickets is the platform to advance to consumers, and then with the airline settlement.
但最近退票量太大，退款要等航空公司先付，平台再退给消费者。
But recently the refund amount is too big, the refund must wait for the airline to pay first, the platform returns to the consumer.
携程相关负责人对南方周末记者说，截至2月上旬，包括机票退改签在内，携程已经完成了数百万单的退改订单。
As of early February, including ticket refunds, Ctrip had completed millions of single-ticket rejections, Ctrip told Southern Weekend reporter.
他也说，接到退票要求时，如果是符合民航局及各航司的政策执行细则的订单，在旅客端会实现秒退，平台后续会拿着凭证向航空公司或供应商结算。
He also said that when a request for a refund is received, if the order is in accordance with the policy implementation rules of the Civil Aviation Administration and the Aviation Department, the passenger will realize a second withdrawal and the platform will then take the voucher to the airline or supplier for settlement.
如果是不符合政策或是旅客询问的退票订单，则会转到人工服务，处理时间相对长，一位资深客服经理处理的最长一个退票订单的时间是4天。
Refund orders that do not comply with the policy or are queried by passengers are transferred to manual services for a relatively long time, with the longest return order processed by a senior customer service manager taking four days.
2四份文件，四次大考此次机票退票潮，最初起源于武汉的进出港，随着疫情蔓延，民航局相继下发了四次文件：1月21日，民航局要求航空公司针对已购买涉及武汉航班机票的旅客，免费办理退票；23日，民航局扩大了免费退票的旅客范围——凡在2020年1月24日0时前购买机票的，都可免费退票；1月27日，再次延长了时间，将旅客可免费退票的时间延长至1月28日0时；2月10日，民航局为特殊群体下发了第四份文件，已购买机票的学生在规定时间范围内可免费退改签。
With the spread of the epidemic, the Civil Aviation Administration issued four documents: On January 21, the Civil Aviation Administration issued four documents: On January 21, the Civil Aviation Administration asked airlines to refund tickets free of charge to those who bought tickets involving Wuhan flights.
这其中，每一次下发文件，对于航空链条都是一次大考。
Among them, every time the documents issued, for the aviation chain is a big test.
最严峻的考验是在1月23日的文件过后，即宣布全国旅客免费退票。
The most serious test was the announcement of free refunds for passengers throughout the country after the 23 January documents.
1月24日是除夕，但在互联网售票平台的工作人员眼中，那只是一个无比繁忙的工作日。
January 24 is New Year's Eve, but in the eyes of Internet ticket sales platform workers, it is a very busy working day.
一位名叫金军的携程客服，带着18个月和7岁的两个孩子，在有近万名坐席的携程南通分公司加班，大年初一零点，是抱着孩子、接着数百通电话度过的。
Jin Jun, a courier service, with two children aged 18 months and 7, worked overtime at the nearly 10,000-seat Ctrip Nantong Branch, which cuddles up the kids and then spends hundreds of calls on the phone.
携程相关负责人告诉南方周末记者，民航局下发文件后，电话业务量同比增幅达到600%，退改签暴增10倍。
Ctrip-related officials told Southern Weekend reporter, Civil Aviation Administration issued documents, telephone volume growth reached 600% year-on-year, back signed a surge of 10 times.
去哪儿网也是如此。
The same goes for the net.
1月23日民航局公布全国免费退票，从公布到执行，之间只有几个小时。
On 23 January, the Civil Aviation Authority announced free refunds throughout the country, only a few hours between publication and implementation.
去哪儿网人士告诉南方周末记者，那一夜，几百万的退单砸了过来，平台彻夜未眠。
Where to tell Southern Weekend reporter, that night, millions of return tickets smashed over, the platform stayed up all night.
除了数据量大，忙碌的另一个原因是新规几乎摧毁了原有的自助退票系统。
In addition to the sheer volume of data, another reason for the rush is that the new rules have almost destroyed the old self-service refund system.
去哪儿网方面人士介绍，疫情之前，各大平台有自动化退票系统，但新规之后，各航空公司的退票政策不完全一致，给平台退票带来了很多难处。
Before the outbreak, major platforms had automatic ticket refund systems, but after the new regulations, airlines did not completely agree on the refund policy, which caused many difficulties for the platform refund.
“比如，民航局通知1月28日以前的机票免费退，那在1月23日已经办理过的退票怎么办？有的航空公司会补退手续费，有的不退。
"For example, the Civil Aviation Administration has advised that tickets issued before January 28 will be refunded free of charge.
”“不仅是我们的系统需要推翻，代理商、航空公司的系统也要推翻。
"Not only does our system need to be overturned, but the systems of agents and airlines need to be overthrown.
”该人士表示，去哪儿网同时面临全球一百多家航空公司，再加上代理商，数目非常庞大。
The person said the number of people who go to the site and face more than 100 airlines from around the world plus agents is huge.
“我们相当于要帮每一个航空公司单独做一套系统，来应对它的资金系统。
"We're going to help each airline develop a separate system to deal with its funding system.
”手忙脚乱中，一度出现紊乱。
In the midst of all this confusion there was a disorder.
“消费者找不到‘免费退票’这么一个选项。
"Consumers can't find a 'free refund' option.
航空公司的政策也是陆续下发，所以会造成一些订单的积压，审核方面也有失误。
Airlines' policies are also issued successively, resulting in backlogs in some orders and errors in audits.
我们一直在尽量排除原有的这些问题，帮助旅客来重新申请。
We've been trying to get rid of these problems and help travelers reapply.
”飞猪旅行的情况类似。
Pigs travel in a similar fashion.
飞猪大交通事业部总经理李晨介绍，在旅游平台各类订单中，机票的退票情况最为复杂，涉及金额也更大，是各项退订来电中占比最高的。
Li Chen, general manager of the Flying Pig Transportation Division, said ticket refunds were the most complex and costly among the various types of travel platform orders, and the highest percentage of all outgoing calls.
1月23日民航局政策发布后，次日的来电量是2019年同期的10倍。
Following the issuance of the Civil Aviation Authority policy on 23 January, incoming electricity on the following day was 10 times higher than for the same period in 2019.
之后，飞猪在两天内重建了退票系统，目前来电量已经下降，但仍是2019年同期的2倍。
The pig then rebuilt its ticket-refund system within two days and is now down, but still twice as much as in the same period in 2019.
3住在武汉的“退票”客服在退改签大潮中，最忙的，是互联网平台的工程师和客服人员。
Wuhan-based "refund" customer service in the tide, the busiest, is the Internet platform engineers and customer service personnel.
在数万人的电话客服中，有一批人比较特殊，他们疫情期间始终住在武汉。
Among the tens of thousands of people on the phone, there was a special group who had lived in Wuhan during the epidemic.
晏红是去哪儿网的一名客服，春节期间，她主动请缨留在武汉。
Anchor is to where a customer service network, during the Spring Festival, she volunteered to stay in Wuhan.
直到2月10日，她平均每天从早上8点工作到晚上24点，一天处理三百多个退改订单。
She worked from 8 a.m. to 24 p.m. on average every day until Feb. 10, handling more than 300 change orders a day.
她告诉南方周末记者，正常时期每天的机票退改订单约为200单，但近期需求量上升了10倍，人工客服加班加点，每天的上限也就是400单。
She told Southern Weekend that daily ticket rejections for normal times were about 200 tickets, but demand has risen 10-fold in the recent past, working overtime at a daily ceiling of 400.
为了满足旅客需求，公司其他部门同事也来支援机票部门，化身客服，顶上一线。
To meet passenger demand, colleagues from other departments of the company also came to support the air ticket department, incarnate customer service, top line.
晏红处理一单退票，一般需要两分钟。
Anchor processing a single refund, generally takes two minutes.
对话结束时，有的顾客会对她说一声“新年快乐”，这是工作中最温暖的时刻。
At the end of the conversation, some customers will say "Happy New Year," which is the warmest moment at work.
她说，1月24日前后是退改票的高峰期，目前大部分退票改签服务在前期已经处理完毕。
She said around January 24 is a peak period for refunds, and that most of the refunds have been processed in the previous period.
正月十五过后，话务量正在逐渐恢复正常。
After January 15, traffic is gradually returning to normal.
武汉疫情中，在家里工作的客服们，普遍是早上起来还没来得及洗漱，就坐在电脑前，工作到深夜。
Wuhan epidemic, home-based service workers, generally wake up in the morning before washing, sitting in front of the computer, working into the night.
一个做客服的女孩叫张思巍，春节时被“困”在了武汉的奶奶家，要工作却没有Wi-Fi，她只好隔着一层层铁门去问邻居，最后拿着500块钱红包到楼上邻居家敲门，人家终于同意她用网以后，隔着铁门的缝隙塞进红包，说了声“新年好”就跑下楼了，“特殊时期嘛，感觉他们和我说话也很紧张。
A customer service girl named Zhang Siwei, trapped in Wuhan at the Spring Festival grandmother's house, to work but no Wi-Fi, she had to ask neighbors through layers of iron door, finally took $500 red bags upstairs neighbors knock, they finally agreed to her through the iron door gap into the red package, said a "good year" ran downstairs, "special period, feel they and I talk very nervous.
”90后陈娟也是武汉运营中心的一名客服，主要负责机票售后服务。
Chen Juan is also a customer service center in Wuhan after 90 days, mainly responsible for after-sales service for air tickets.
她是湖北荆州人，家中的独生女，自2011年来武汉上大学就一直留在这里。
She is an only child from Jingzhou, Hubei province, where Wuhan has been staying since 2011.
她喜欢武汉，理由很简单——热干面好吃，樱花好看。
She likes Wuhan, the reason is very simple - hot and dry noodles delicious, cherry blossoms good-looking.
陈娟做客服工作五年了，不论是被顾客骂，还是加班，她都早已习惯。
Chen Juan as a guest service for five years, whether by customers scold, or overtime, she has been used to.
这个春节，她最大的遗憾是没有回家陪爸妈过年。
This Spring Festival, her greatest regret is not to go home to spend New Year with her parents.
“这是唯一一年春节没有陪爸妈的，这是唯一让我特别烦恼、内疚的事，”陈娟哽咽着说，“我跟爸妈有个承诺，无论在哪工作，每一年过年，风雨无阻，一定要回家，回去之后才能团圆。
"This is the only Spring Festival not to accompany my parents, this is the only thing that makes me particularly worried and guilty," Chen Juan choked. "I have a promise to my parents, no matter where I work, every New Year, rain or shine.
”但她依然选择留在武汉，坚守岗位。
But she chose to remain in Wuhan and hold her post.
“把它（武汉）当成一个家了。
"" Take it (Wuhan) as a family.
它现在生病了，我不能离开它，要跟它一起风雨同舟”。
He is ill now. I can't leave him alone. I want to ride with him.
1月19日到2月10日，陈娟只休息了3天。
From January 19 to February 10, Chen Juan took only three days off.
她告诉南方周末记者，每天要接听80-90个电话，工作量是平时的2倍，“每天像机器人一样不停地工作”。
She told Southern Weekend that she answered 80 to 90 calls a day, twice as many as usual, "working like a robot every day."
陈娟和一位女同事一起住，两个女生轮流做饭，做饭时，另一个人就来帮忙顶上。
Chen Juan and a female colleagues live together, two girls take turns cooking, cooking, another person came to help top.
大年三十晚上，陈娟一直在接听电话，最后累得倒头就睡，没有等到跨年的钟声敲响。
On New Year's Eve, Chen Juan has been answering the phone, finally tired to sleep, did not wait for the sound of the New Year's bell.
“实在上不了班了，就睡了，没洗澡也没刷牙，没有跟家人朋友联系”。
"I couldn't get on the job, so I went to bed, didn't wash my teeth and didn't get in touch with my family and friends.
让陈娟欣慰的是，截至目前，她的家乡湖北荆州公安县南平镇鲍官村还没有新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Chen Juan is pleased that, so far, her hometown of Jingzhou public security county Baoguan village in Jinzhou, there has not been a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia.
4 七成航班取消数千万退改签背后，异常忙碌的是互联网售票平台，但受影响最大的是航空公司。
Forty-seven percent of flights canceled tens of millions of resignations, the very busy Internet ticket platform, but the most affected is the airline.
疫情期间，人们不能移动，机票取消，使得国内航空公司不得不合并、取消多数航班。
During the outbreak, people were unable to move and airline tickets were cancelled, forcing domestic airlines to merge and cancel most flights.
据航班出行信息服务提供商飞常准发布的数据，截至2月11日10时20分，国内计划航班1.68万架次，预计执行航班4921架次，取消航班1.18万架次。
As of 1020 hours on February 11, 16,800 flights were planned, 4,921 were scheduled to be flown and 11,800 were to be cancelled, according to figures routinely released by flight travel information service providers.
另一家交通、出行数据服务商Airsavvi，近日公布了国内全部航班趋势图，自1月26日起，每日国内取消航班超3000趟，2月4日达到顶峰，取消了近12000次航班。
Airsavvi, another transportation and travel data service provider, recently released a chart showing the total number of domestic flights cancelled more than 3,000 times a day from January 26, peaking on February 4, cancelling nearly 12,000 flights.
2月10日，湖北省仅执行了武汉天河国际机场的一趟航班，出港航班执行率0.3%，为全国最低。
On February 10, Hubei Province implemented only one flight from Wuhan Tianhe International Airport, with an implementation rate of 0.3 per cent, the lowest in the country.
其次是新疆和宁夏，执行率分别为10.7%和12.1%。
Xinjiang and Ningxia followed, with 10.7 per cent and 12.1 per cent implementation rates, respectively.
其他省份航班执行率多在20%到30%之间。
In other provinces, flight implementation rates ranged from 20 to 30 per cent.
台湾执行率为79.4%，香港为56.5%，仍保留了较高的航班执行数。
Taiwan had an implementation rate of 79.4 per cent and Hong Kong of 56.5 per cent, still maintaining a high level of flight execution.
据飞常准发布的数据，截至2月8日，国内41家客运航空公司中（不包括港澳台），南方航空取消7018架次，是取消航班最多的航司。
As of February 8, China's 41 passenger airlines (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) had cancelled 7,018 flights, making it the shipping department with the highest number of cancellations, according to figures released by Faithful.
丁勇是中国南方航空集团的工作人员，他告诉南方周末记者，平时每天大约有2500次航班执行，现在只有不到600次。
Ding Yong, a staff member of China Southern Airlines Group, told Southern Weekend that there were about 2,500 flights a day, compared with less than 600 today.
“春运期间，一架飞机正常一天要飞11-12个小时，现在只有3.5小时，航班量相当于下降七成。
"During the Spring Festival, when an airplane normally flies 11 to 12 hours a day, it's only 3.5 hours, which is equivalent to a 70 percent drop in the number of flights.
”他表示，东航、国航、海航等国内航司巨头的情况都差不多。
He said the situation was similar for the domestic giants such as China Eastern, Air China and Maritime.
为了降低成本，航空公司将部分航班合并起来，原本一天飞三四次航班的航线，合成一趟航班。
To keep costs down, airlines are combining some of their flights into one flight that used to fly three or four times a day.
“客座率太低了。
"The attendance is too low.
”他说，平时客座率在82%左右，现在要把4单合在一起，才有可能达到客座率70%。
Normally, he says, the occupancy rate is around 82 percent, and now it's possible to get 70 percent by combining four tickets.
而低于50%客座率的航班，就是亏钱飞行。
Flights with less than 50% passenger capacity are flying at a loss.
还有一个办法是换飞机。
Another option is to change planes.
丁勇介绍，由于宽体机油耗更大、成本更高，现在航空公司普遍将宽体机“放假”，改用窄体机，除了一些有规定的国际航班。
Ding Yong said, because wide-bodied aircraft fuel consumption, higher costs, now airlines will generally "holiday" the wide-bodied machine, with the exception of some specified international flights.
对于民航来说，一年中有几个最赚钱的时段——春运、黄金周和暑期。
For civil aviation, there are some of the most lucrative periods of the year - Spring Festival, Golden Week and Summer vacation.
“现在这一波等于春运没了，就剩下暑期和国庆。
"Now this wave is equivalent to Chunyun lost, leaving the summer and National Day.
至少要损失一半。
At least half the cost.
”可供对比的是，根据2003年东方航空（600115.SH）的财报，SARS暴发导致当年二季度客运量下滑，营业收入增速从第一季度的15.1%下降到第二季度的－37.2%，第二季度亏损12.42亿元。
By contrast, according to 2003 results from China Eastern Airlines (600115.SH), the SARS outbreak led to a decline in passenger traffic in the second quarter of the year, with revenue growth falling from 15.1 per cent in the first quarter to -37.2 per cent in the second quarter and a loss of 1.242 billion yuan in the second quarter.
丁勇担心，目前的情况继续下去，公司会损失惨重。
Ding was worried that the company would lose heavily if the current situation continued.
“南航最主要的客运收入就是客票，卖不出票了，相当于没有收入。
"China Southern's main passenger revenue is passenger tickets, can not sell tickets, equivalent to no income.
现在，国家免掉了航司的民航发展基金，就靠着国家财政补贴来发工资。
Now, the State is exempt from the Department's Civil Aviation Development Fund and relies on State financial subsidies to pay salaries.
”2月6日，财政部、国家发改委宣布免征航空公司应缴纳的民航发展基金。
On February 6, the Ministry of Finance and the National Development and Reform Commission announced that airlines would be exempted from paying civil aviation development funds.
这是一项政府性基金，2012年起实施，用于取代曾经的机场建设费和民航基础设施建设基金。
This is a government fund that has been in operation since 2012 to replace the airport construction fee and the Civil Aviation Infrastructure Fund.
根据上市公司财报，2019年上半年，国航（股票代码：601111）、南航（600029）和东航，分别缴纳民航发展基金11.9亿、15.4亿、和12.1亿，占利润总额26.5%、64.1%、和44.5%。
According to the earnings report of listed companies, Air China (share code: 601111), China Southern Airlines (600029) and China Eastern Airlines paid 1.19, 1.54 and 1.21 billion CAD respectively in the first half of 2019, accounting for 26.5 per cent, 64.1 per cent and 44.5 per cent, respectively.
虽然民航发展基金自2019年下半年起，已宣布减半，而疫情中的全部免缴，仍能一定程度上帮助航空公司渡过难关。
Although the Civil Aviation Development Fund has been halved since the second half of 2019, full exemption from the epidemic will still help airlines weather the storm to some extent.
（应受访者要求，鲁宁、梁怡、丁勇为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Luning, Liang Yi and Ding Yong-wei collected Southern Weekend and are now soliciting news leads from all the readers who are on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一千三百万张退票背后：曾有一万多人在客服电话中排队。
Behind the 13 million refunds: More than 10, 000 people lined up on customer service phones.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "一千三百万张退票背后：曾有一万多人在客服电话中排队";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
