生鲜电商“疫”外崛起。
Fresh electricity business "epidemic" outside the rise.
卢宝宜​。
Lu Baoyi Chao.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲图为广州某小区物业在大门外设置的生鲜菜品取菜区。
The picture shows a small property in Guangzhou outside the door set up fresh dishes menu area.
（南方周末记者 冯飞/图）全文共5066字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Feng Fei / picture) The full text of 5,066 words, reading about 7 minutes.
大年初二，一位生鲜电商蔬菜采购员被派回了云南，公司给他的指令只有一个，“不惜成本，有多少买多少”。
New Year's Day, a fresh electric vegetable buyer was sent back to Yunnan, the company gave him only one order, "regardless of cost, how much to buy."
骑手严子强心想这是个不错的赚钱机会，想把村里的老乡也喊出来工作。
The rider, Yan Zi, thought it was a good chance to make money and wanted to call out the villagers for work.
“可惜封村了，他想来都来不了。
"But it's a pity he can't even come.
”此次疫情改变的不止是生鲜电商，而是让整个零售业看到了一个触手可及的未来。
The epidemic is changing not just raw electricity producers, but the retail sector as a whole, with a future within reach.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 卢宝宜责任编辑 | 冯叶家住北京的陈凡，今年24岁，凭借打游戏练出的过人手速，第一次成为家中买菜的主力军。
The 24-year-old Chen Fan, 24, who started at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint articles and articles from Southern Weekend, is the first major home buyer.
受新冠肺炎疫情影响，从春节假期开始，陈凡一家几乎不再出门。
Affected by the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, from the Spring Festival, Chen Fan's family almost no longer go out.
他的父母第一次知道，原来网上也能买菜。
For the first time, his parents knew they could buy vegetables online.
与此同时，全国各地千千万万个陈凡一样的家庭，也都在这次疫情中，加入了抢菜大军。
At the same time, tens of thousands of families across the country, like Chen Fan, also in the outbreak, joined the army of vegetables.
一时之间，各大生鲜电商供不应求。
In a while, major fresh electricity suppliers in short supply.
像新鲜蔬菜、猪肉等热销商品，往往上架后秒光，要么售罄，要么就是骑手已约满。
Hot-selling products such as fresh vegetables and pork often run out of seconds after shelving, or the rider is already engaged.
陈凡已在连续多天的实战中总结出一套抢购攻略。
Chen Fan has been in a number of days of actual combat summed up a set of snapping up strategy.
重点是牢记各大生鲜电商的上新时间，“0点抢盒马鲜生，6点多抢Dmall，7点美团买菜，8点每日优鲜，9点永辉……”然后设置闹钟，只要能从床上爬起来，想买的基本都能买到。
The point is to keep in mind the new time of the major live electric business, "0 points to grab a box of fresh horse, more than 6 o'clock to grab Dmall, 7 o'clock to buy vegetables, 8 o'clock daily bright, 9 o'clock Yonghui..." Then set an alarm clock, as long as you can get up from bed, you can buy anything you want.
虽然抢菜不是问题，但陈凡的体验是，生鲜电商的送货速度远不如平日，隔天送到是常态。
Although robbing vegetables is not a problem, but Chen Fan's experience is that the speed of delivery is far less than usual, the next day is the norm.
而在生鲜电商过去的广告宣传中，大多强调的是“半小时到家”。
And in the past in the fresh electric business advertising, most of the emphasis is "half an hour home.
不过，这并没有影响全民抢购的热情。
However, this did not affect the enthusiasm of the people to buy.
各大生鲜电商提供给南方周末记者的数据显示，春节期间原本是零售业淡季，但京东到家销售额同比增长约374%，叮咚买菜的用户量基本每天增长4万多，永辉到家日单量首破30万单，美团买菜北京地区的日销售量最高为节前的2—3倍……大众从未像今天一样，对生鲜电商和外卖小哥充满了感激之情。
According to data provided to Southern Weekend reporters by leading TV companies, sales during the Spring Festival were originally low, but sales in Jingdong grew by 374% year-on-year, Dingdong grew by more than 40,000 per day, Yonghui broke through 300,000 a day.
而生鲜电商这门生意，也意外地迎来了春天。
And fresh electricity business this business, also ushered in the spring unexpectedly.
“一物死，一物生。
"One thing dies and another lives.
”知名财经评论人格隆在其微博写道。
Personality Long, a prominent financial commentator, wrote in his microblog.
1 击穿行业供给大部分生鲜电商本就有“春节不打烊”计划，但它们显然还是低估了这个与众不同的春节。
The breakdown industry, which supplies most of the fresh electricity makers with the Spring Festival Closed, apparently underestimates the unusual festival.
每日优鲜交付中台负责人王飞向南方周末记者表示，由于公司核心管理层都经历过2003年抗击SARS的全过程，所以平台较早就有了预判，今年春节比去年同期新增了20%的储备仓。
Wang Fei, head of the Daily Fresh Delivery Center, told Southern Weekend that because the company's core management had experienced the entire process of fighting SARS in 2003, the platform had an early forecast, adding 20% more reserves this year than in the same period last year.
只是没想到，新增的储备很快就不够用了。
I just didn't think the extra reserves would soon run out.
自疫情防控开始，每日优鲜每天的蔬菜出货量从500吨涨至1000吨，平均每天有10%的货品售罄。
Since the beginning of the epidemic, daily shipments of good vegetables have risen from 500 tons to 1,000 tons, with an average of 10 per cent of the daily stock sold out.
未来还有可能增至每天2000吨。
It could increase to 2,000 tons per day in the future.
“这个供货量已经超过了我们历史的峰值。
"This supply has surpassed our historical peak.
”每日优鲜合伙人兼CFO王珺对南方周末记者说，部分消费者表现出恐慌性囤货，导致市场需求过分旺盛“，已经击穿了整个行业的供给量”。
The Daily Fresh Partner and CFO Jun tells Southern Weekend that some consumers are showing signs of panic hoarding that leads to excessive market demand "that has already pierced the industry's supply.
京东到家提供的数据显示“，菜蛋肉奶”是平台上最受欢迎的品类，连平日里购买频次较低的米面粮油都成了畅销品。
"Egg and egg milk" is the most popular category on the platform, with even the less frequently purchased rice noodle oil becoming a best seller, according to data from Jingdong's home.
从除夕至大年初九，其粮油副食商品销售额比2019年春节增长了740%，肉品增长了710%，休闲食品增长了530%，蔬菜增长了440%，水果增长了380%。
From New Year's Eve to New Year's Day, sales of grain and oil by-products increased by 740 percent over 2019, meat by 710 percent, leisure food by 530 percent, vegetables by 440 percent, and fruit by 380 percent.
一位社区生鲜负责人告诉南方周末记者，往常生意好的时候，一天最多卖100吨蔬菜，2020年春节，这一数字至少翻倍。
A community health official told Southern Weekend that when business was good, a maximum of 100 tons of vegetables a day could be sold, and by 2020 the figure would at least double.
这家社区生鲜在广州拥有近20家门店。
The community has nearly 20 stores in Guangzhou.
作为社区生鲜电商，原本就离消费者很近，消费者过去都是线下买、自提多。
As a community live electricity business, originally close to the consumer, the consumer is online in the past to buy, self-mention more.
如今随着线上订单急速上升，平台也新增了合作快递，由同城物流“达达快送”负责快递到家。
Now with the rapid rise of online orders, the platform also added express cooperation, by the same city logistics "Dada Express" responsible for express home.
“一个顾客一次消费，就买足一个家庭一周的蔬菜水果量变得太正常了。
"It's normal for a customer to buy enough fruits and vegetables a week for a family to consume at a time.
”这位社区生鲜负责人称，客单价从过去的60—80元大幅涨至300—400元。
The head of the community health department said the unit price had risen sharply from 60-80 yuan in the past to 300-400 yuan.
李明礼是沃尔玛深圳分店的一位员工，他向南方周末记者描述了这段时间每天都要经历的场面——推两辆购物车购物扫货的消费者比比皆是，下午三四点，很多货架就空了，营业时间被动缩短。
Li Mingli, an employee at Wal-Mart's Shenzhen store, described to Southern Weekend the daily grind of two shopping carts filled with shoppers, with shelves empty and business hours reduced by three or four in the afternoon.
沃尔玛只好在深圳多家门店张贴温馨提示：现在，蔬菜不缺，但是，你一抢，就缺了。
Wal-Mart has to put up a number of stores in Shenzhen warm tips: Now, vegetables do not lack, but, you snatch, lack.
2 供应链大考在这轮需求爆发前，许多瓜果蔬菜正因春节假期，躺在无人光顾的田地里。
Supply Chain GateBefore this round of demand, many fruits and vegetables were lying in unfrequented fields during the Spring Festival holiday.
王晓磊是一家头部生鲜电商的蔬菜采购员，负责云南产地。
Wang Xiaoli is a vegetable buyer for a fresh head electronics business. He is responsible for Yunnan's production.
除夕当天，他原本已经回到了四川老家过年。
On New Year's Eve, he had already returned to his hometown in Sichuan for the New Year.
但需求量突然爆发，大年初二，他又被派回了云南，公司给他的指令只有一个，“不惜成本，有多少买多少”。
But the demand suddenly flared up, he was sent back to Yunnan, the company gave him only one order, "regardless of cost, how much to buy."
“刚回去的前几天，菜都长在地里没人拔。
"Just a few days ago, the food was growing in the fields unplucked.
”王晓磊说，上游还没反应过来，采购价有所下降。
'Upstream hasn't reacted yet, 'says Mr. Wang.
但当他准备大干一场的时候，却发现，不少地方因为疫情防控已经实行封村措施，运菜的卡车开不进村，也运不出去。
But when he was about to launch a major operation, he found that many places because of the epidemic prevention and control measures have been implemented, vegetables trucks can not drive into the village, and can not get out.
王晓磊一边和公司反映情况，一边扩大采购范围，先跑到周边的农户家进行小范围采购，同时与村民们搞好关系，让他们用人扛或推小三轮的方式送到村口，再装到被拦在村口外的大卡车上。
Wang and the company reported the situation, while expanding the scope of procurement, first to the surrounding farmers for a small range of procurement, while at the same time with villagers, let them carry or push small three-wheeled way to the village, and then be stopped outside the village on a large truck.
幸运的是，王晓磊所在的平台很快就解决了问题“。
Fortunately, Wang's platform quickly solved the problem.
因为我们是保民生工程，获得政府支持后，很快拿到了绿色通行证，卡车能进村了。
Because we are the people's livelihood project, with the support of the government, soon got a green pass, trucks can enter the village.
”王晓磊说，接下来要解决的是人手短缺的问题。
'The next thing we need to solve is a shortage of staff, 'Mr. Wang said.
在雇用当地农民和工人加快采摘和运输工作的同时，王晓磊作为采购员也要下地干活“。
While hiring local farmers and workers to speed up picking and transportation, Wang also has to work as a buyer.
采购价涨了2—3倍，主要就是人力成本。
The purchase price rose 2-3 times, mainly in terms of labor costs.
”为了打赢这场生鲜电商大战，王晓磊透露，他所在的平台补贴了菜价的30%。
To win the live-TV battle, Wang revealed that his platform subsidizes 30 per cent of the price.
新增直采蔬菜基地，增派采购人员奔赴产地协调生产和发货，是大部分电商的应对之策。
New direct production of vegetable bases, increased procurement staff to the production of coordinated production and delivery, is the majority of electrical business solutions.
叮咚买菜在腊月二十九召开了紧急会议，动员没有离开驻地的员工都留下来，并迅速成立了三个“战斗小组”：保安全、保供应、保配送。
Dong-dong buy vegetables on the 29th of December held an emergency meeting to mobilize the staff did not leave the site stay, and quickly set up three "combat groups": security, security, distribution.
叮咚买菜向南方周末记者提供的资料显示，保供应小组包含一百多名不放假的采购人员，哪怕在除夕和初一，采购人员也遍布全国各个产地的田间地头“。
Dong-dong buy vegetables to Southern Weekend reporters provided information, the supply team includes more than 100 non-holiday procurement staff, even on New Year's Eve and the first day, procurement staff throughout the country of origin of the field.
由于很多农产品基地都放假了，农民都回家过年了，所以我们给更高的报酬来动员大家复工。
As many agricultural bases are closed, farmers are home for the New Year, so we give higher remuneration to motivate people to return to work.
”拓展蔬菜供应商也是一种办法。
Expanding vegetable suppliers is another option.
春节期间，小型餐饮企业订单下滑严重，不少过去面向这些餐饮企业的供应商也颇具去库存压力。
During the Spring Festival, orders for small catering companies declined sharply, and many of the suppliers who used to serve them were under pressure to keep inventories.
叮咚买菜借此也加大了与供应商的合作，还能维持较为稳定的价格。
Ding Dong buys vegetables with this also increased cooperation with the supplier, still can maintain relatively stable price.
盒马鲜生则发挥其在全国23个城市二百多家门店的规模优势，利用各地本土化的供应链，与全国供应链进行结合互补。
Boxed Horse Shengsheng in the 23 cities of the country's more than 200 stores to take advantage of the local supply chain, and complement the national supply chain.
如上海人口多，需求量大，就从山东、云南、福建等地，每天调拨一百多吨蔬菜作为补充。
If Shanghai has a large population and a large demand, it will supply more than 100 tons of vegetables a day from Shandong, Yunnan and Fujian.
每日优鲜合伙人兼CFO王珺向南方周末记者表示，平台要解决的不是生产问题“，中国上游的产能是巨大的，现在其实是在考验每个公司在供应链上的基本功”。
The Daily Fresh Partner and CFO Jun tells Southern Weekend that the platform is not about production "The upstream production capacity in China is huge and is now testing the fundamental work of each company in the supply chain."
3进击的物流除了把货品运输到城市仓库外，终端物流的配送也是当前困扰生鲜电商的一大难题。
Besides transporting the goods to the city warehouse, the distribution of terminal logistics is a difficult problem for the fresh electric merchants.
多家生鲜电商已相继挂出了“延时配送公告”，相较过去的半小时送达，如今5—8小时内送达已属不易。
A number of live telecoms operators have announced a delay in delivery, compared with the past half-hour, and it is no longer easy to reach them in 5-8 hours.
永辉到家团队负责人向南方周末记者承认，受配送人员返乡过年和疫情期间到家订单猛增的双重影响，运力一度出现明显短缺。
Yonghui to the home team leader admitted to Southern Weekend reporter, distribution personnel to return to the New Year and the surge in orders home during the epidemic, the impact of a significant shortage of capacity.
疫情防控开始后，永辉到家启动了应急预案，鼓励配送人员和门店店员的家属一并参与配送。
After the outbreak prevention and control began, Yonghui home to launch an emergency plan to encourage distribution personnel and shop assistant's family members to participate in the distribution.
同时，公司变为大后方，为配送团队提供餐食，熬制预防流感的茶包。
At the same time, the company turned into a rear, distribution team to provide meals, stay prepared to prevent influenza tea bags.
为了最大程度提高配送效率，永辉到家服务还调整了履约模式，以小区为单位进行集中装箱配送。
In order to maximize the efficiency of distribution, Yonghui home service also adjusted the implementation model, to the unit as a centralized container distribution.
除了原本配送员使用的电动车以外，永辉将全面消毒后的小货车、三轮车等调进集中配送的交通工具中。
In addition to the original distribution of electric vehicles used by the company, Yonghui will be fully disinfected pickup trucks, tricycles and other transportation into the centralized distribution vehicles.
此外，永辉超市也与达达快送展开合作，在订单高峰期，增加外包配送。
In addition, Wing Fai Supermarket and Dada Express began to cooperate in the peak order period, increased outsourcing distribution.
达达快送是业内最早开放的同城配送平台。
Dada Express is the earliest open distribution platform in the industry.
达达快送负责人向南方周末记者介绍，达达快送的背后有一个大数据平台，可协助平台智能订单的分发和运力的供需调控。
Dada Express sent to Southern Weekend reporter, Dada Express back of a large data platform, can assist in the distribution of the platform's smart order and capacity of supply and demand control.
不仅提供送货的骑手，还可协助合作平台处理来自线上全渠道的订单，解决从仓库到拣货到配送的一体化问题。
It not only provides delivery riders, but also assists collaborative platforms in handling orders from a full range of online sources, addressing integration issues from warehouse to pick-up to distribution.
不过，即便是专做同城配送的达达，也缺人了。
But even Dada, who specializes in city distribution, is missing.
近日，达达集团联合京东启动了就业招募活动。
Recently, the Dada Group launched a joint Jing Dong employment recruitment campaign.
其中，集团旗下达达快送面向全国超2400个县区招募1万名骑手；集团旗下另外一家配送平台京东到家，也将协助其零售合作伙伴，面向全国招募拣货员等岗位超5000个。
The group's Dada is recruiting 10,000 riders in more than 2,400 counties across the country, and another of its distribution platforms, Kyung-Tung, will help its retail partners by recruiting more than 5,000 pick-and-pick posts nationwide.
严子强是每日优鲜的一位骑手，平日里送货最忙的时间点是上午10点和下午5点，但由于现在用户都在半夜抢购，他每天上班时间改为8点，此后一直要忙到晚上10点“。
Yan Ziqiang is a daily rider, usually the busiest time to deliver goods is 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., but now that users rush in the middle of the night, he changes his work day to 8 o'clock and has to work until 10 p.m. ".
本来订单就多，我们仓负责运送的骑手年前还有12个，现在只有9个。
There were a lot of orders. We had 12 riders in the warehouse a year ago, and now there are only nine.
”由于缺少骑手，每日优鲜推出了不少有吸引力的激励政策：2月1日—8日，每单结算单价翻倍，8天满勤，还有1000元的额外红包。
The lack of riders has led to a number of attractive incentives: a doubling of the unit price of each deal between February 1 and 8, eight full days of service, and an extra $1,000 in red packets.
严子强心想这是个不错的赚钱机会，想把村里的老乡也喊出来工作“。
Yan Ziqiang thought it was a good chance to make money and wanted to call out the villagers to work.
可惜封村了，他想来都来不了。
It's a pity he can't even come because of the village.
”4共享员工缺人，成了各个环节最大的难题。
Sharing people who are in short supply has become the biggest challenge in every link of the chain.
事实上，不管是大型超市沃尔玛，还是生鲜电商，虽然货源相对紧张，但是依然可以通过加大采购解决，但人手不足短期难以解决。
In fact, whether it is a large supermarket, Wal-Mart, or fresh electricity business, although the source of goods is relatively tight, but can still be resolved through increased procurement, but short-term staffing is difficult to solve.
李明礼说，沃尔玛的仓库还有大量耐储备的萝卜、白菜等各类蔬果，“问题是，当货架空了，没有多余的员工有空闲进行补货”。
"Wal-Mart Stores also has a large stock of vegetables and fruits, such as turnips and cabbage." The problem is, when the shelves are empty, there's no spare staff left to restock, "he said.
他只能再三强调：“供货充足，大家没有必要再恐慌性囤货了。
He could only stress again and again: "Supply is sufficient, there is no need for panic hoarding."
”广东一位每日生鲜采购员则向南方周末记者介绍，他们已经拿到相关资质，蔬菜等物资运输可以走绿色通道，但运输人员仍处于紧缺状态。
A daily fresh buyer from Guangdong told Southern Weekend reporters that they had been given the relevant qualifications, vegetables and other goods can be transported through the green channel, but transport personnel are still in a critical state.
一些地方为了防止疫情蔓延，采取“一刀切”做法，很多司机送完货后要隔离14天“。
Some places have adopted a one-size-fits-all approach to prevent the spread of the epidemic, with many drivers being quarantined for 14 days after delivery.
农民没有了，还能花钱在当地请，司机压根找不到。
The farmer has no, still can expend money to hire locally, the driver can not find at all.
”中国连锁经营协会的数据显示，由于疫情防控需要，企业返乡员工回程受限，造成超市等零售企业门店营运、物流配送等各方面员工缺编50%以上。
According to the China Chain Management Association, restrictions on the return journey of returning workers due to the need for epidemic prevention and control have resulted in a 50 per cent or more shortage of staff in stores, logistics and distribution in retail enterprises such as supermarkets.
“共享员工”成为一个一举两得的办法，各大生鲜电商均选择从受疫情冲击较大的餐饮业等线下消费领域，招揽“闲置员工”。
"Shared staff" become a kill two birds with one stone each way, each big live electricity merchant chooses from the epidemic situation big hit food industry and so on offline consumptive domain, enlists "idle staff".
2月初，盒马鲜生最早宣布，将联合云海肴、西贝、探鱼、青年餐厅等餐饮品牌，促成“共享员工”的合作。
At the beginning of February, Xiansheng Boxer announced that he would combine restaurant brands such as Yun Hai, Xibei, fish and youth restaurant to promote "shared staff" cooperation.
将原本在餐饮行业的员工送至盒马各地门店，经训练后参与门店货品打包、分拣、上架等工作。
The original staff in the catering industry to Boxer stores, after training to participate in the store goods packaging, sorting, shelving and so on.
一位盒马鲜生员工告诉南方周末记者，继云海肴和西贝的餐饮企业后，还陆续有酒店、影院、百货等32家来自各行业的企业加入到盒马的“共享员工”计划中。
A box-horse employee told Southern Weekend reporter that after the restaurant enterprises of Yun Hai and Xibei, 32 enterprises from hotels, cinemas and department stores joined the "Share the Employee" program in Boxer.
截至2020年2月10日，来自外部企业员工在盒马正式上岗的有1800余人。
As of February 10, 2020, more than 1800 employees from outside companies are officially on duty in Boxer.
除了门店的合作以外，盒马还将合作用工的范围拓展到运力上。
In addition to the store cooperation box horse will also extend the scope of cooperative work to the capacity.
以上海大众出行为例，据上述盒马员工介绍，首批合作司机已经就位，配送工作的试点范围以上海有停车条件的盒马门店为主。
As an example of Shanghai Volkswagen's behavior, the first batch of co-drivers has been put in place, and the distribution work will be carried out on a pilot basis in a box-horse store in Shanghai with parking conditions.
与过往的电瓶车配送相比，汽车一次配送可以带出2—3倍的订单。
Compared with the past distribution of electric vehicles, a car distribution can bring two to three times the order.
5突如其来的春天“万万没想到，疫情让这个行业拥有了突如其来的机会。
5 Sudden spring "Unexpectedly, the epidemic has given the industry a sudden opportunity.
”一位要求匿名的生鲜电商创始人向南方周末记者感叹。
The founder of a live-TV company who asked to remain anonymous lamented to Southern Weekend reporter.
据他透露，最近两个月，不少原本亏损的平台都实现了单月盈利。
In the past two months, many loss-making platforms have made a monthly profit, he said.
自2016年诞生，生鲜电商一直步履维艰。
Sejak tahun 2016, perusahaan-perusahaan listrik tenaga listrik berkurang.
就在这个春节前，呆萝卜、秒生活等多家公司因资金链断裂倒在黎明前。
Just before the Spring Festival, turnips, seconds of life and other companies because of the breakdown of the financial chain poured in the pre-dawn.
中国电子商务研究中心的数据显示，截至2019年年中，全国四千多家生鲜电商平台中，仅1%实现盈利，4%营收持平，88%陷入亏损。
By mid-2019, according to the China Electronic Commerce Research Center, only 1 per cent of the more than 4,000 fresh electricity platforms in the country had made profits, 4 per cent had flat revenues and 88 per cent had run into losses.
上述创始人表示，生鲜行业本身的毛利率并不低，源头采购的部分品类甚至高达50%，这是一个很大的市场。
According to the founders, the fresh industry itself is not low gross margin, source procurement of some categories as high as 50%, which is a large market.
之前长期亏损，一个原因在于大家没有在线上购买蔬果的习惯。
One reason for the long-term losses was that there was no online habit of buying fruits and vegetables.
根据饿了么的数据，2018年中国生鲜电商的市场渗透率仅为3%。
According to hungry data, the market penetration rate of fresh electricity producers in China was only 3% in 2018.
另一个原因则在于，随着多家平台入局，竞争加剧，不少平台在资本加持下，选择以负毛利的方式抢占市场“。
Another reason is that with the entry of multiple platforms, competition intensified, many platforms in the capital plus, choose to seize the market in a negative way. "
拿货价69元的车厘子定价39.9元还包邮，行业人看都很正常，烧出去的钱都花在了巨额的营销补贴上，还未必见成效。
Taking the price of 69 yuan (US $70) car price 39.9 yuan returned package mail, the industry seems to be very normal, burning money spent on huge marketing subsidies, not necessarily effective.
”而疫情的到来突然解决了这两个问题。
The arrival of the epidemic suddenly solved both of these problems.
每日优鲜CFO王珺说，根据其过去五年的行业经验，只要用户完成3单购买后，留存率就非常稳健了。
The Daily Fresh CFO Jun says that based on its industry experience over the past five years, the retention rate is robust as long as the user finishes 3 single purchases.
但是要让一个客户在平台上完成3次订单，培养出习惯，原本是很漫长的，而这次疫情大大缩短了这一过程。
But getting a client to place three orders on a platform and develop habits is long enough, and the epidemic has greatly shortened the process.
有的平台借机扩张。
Some platforms take the opportunity to expand.
此前专注于做水果零售的百果园从2019年年中起，开始供应米面粮油等水果外的各类货品。
The 100 orchards, which had previously focused on fruit retailing, began to supply a variety of products other than rice flour and oil from mid-2019.
就在春节抗疫期间，百果园适时地在广东14城上新了蔬菜供应，进军大生鲜领域。
During the Spring Festival anti-epidemic period, 100 orchards in Guangdong 14 cities in a timely new supply of vegetables, into the field of large fresh.
百果心享大生鲜事业部总经理孙鹏对南方周末记者说，由于蔬菜难保鲜、储蓄难、耗损高，公司筹备了大半年的时间，赶上这次需求爆发，有幸运的成分。
As vegetables are hard to preserve, difficult to save and wear and tear, the company has been preparing for most of the year to catch up with the explosion of demand, said Sun Peng, general manager of the Health Promotion Division of Pegasus University told Southern Weekend.
不过，疫情考验了所有生鲜平台供给侧的能力，有能力的，有资金有渠道的，才能抓住这波需求。
However, the outbreak tested the supply-side capacity of all fresh platforms, capable and funded to seize the wave of demand.
受访者大多认为，行业在疫情结束后会出现显著的两极分化，价格战或将提前结束。
The majority of respondents believed that there would be significant polarization in the industry after the epidemic ended and that the price war might end sooner rather than later.
如上述不愿具名的创始人认为，此次疫情更像是生鲜电商的一场“大考”，考得好的，只要做好服务，最起码上半年会有很好的走势；考得不好的，年后会持续面临更严苛的供应链不足的问题，将加速行业优胜劣汰。
If the above-mentioned founders do not want to name, the outbreak is more like a live TV business "big test," good, as long as good service, at least the first half of the year will have a good trend; bad, will continue to face more stringent supply chain deficiencies after the year will accelerate the industry's survival.
此次疫情改变的不止是生鲜电商，而是让整个零售业看到了一个触手可及的未来。
This epidemic is not just changing the live electricity business, but the entire retail industry to see a realistic future.
采访过程中，十余位从业者达成了一个共识——这次疫情将加速整个零售行业“线上线下全渠道”的发展。
During the interview, more than a dozen practitioners reached a consensus that the epidemic would accelerate the development of "off-line and offline channels" throughout the retail industry.
传统零售企业将更加注重线上渠道的开拓，即便是社区超市也将很快加入线上到家的赛道中去。
Traditional retail companies will pay more attention to the development of online channels, even community supermarkets will soon join the on-line to home circuit.
（应受访者要求，陈凡、李明礼、王晓磊、严子强为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Chen Fan, Li Mingli, Wang Xiaoli and Yan Zi Qiang as aliases), Southern Weekend is now openly soliciting news leads from all readers on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
生鲜电商“疫”外崛起。
Fresh electricity business "epidemic" outside the rise.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "生鲜电商“疫”外崛起";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
