战疫进行时：“好好学习”在线上。
When the epidemic occurs: "Study hard" online.
陈淼。
Miao Chen.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
全文共3557字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text consists of 3,557 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
“停课不停学”不等于上网课，上网课也不是简单的课堂转移。
"Classes do not stop learning" is not the same as online classes, online classes are not simple classroom transfer.
广义上的学习，是让孩子在生活痕迹中思考本质，借助互联网和信息化教学资源建立属于自己的精神天空。
Broadly speaking, learning is to let children think in the traces of life, through the Internet and information-based teaching resources to establish their own spiritual sky.
教学形式的演进无法代表教育本身的意义，但更普惠的学习资源，更灵活的学习方式，正在影响每一个投入到学习中的主体。
The evolution of forms of teaching does not represent the meaning of education per se, but more inclusive learning resources and more flexible learning styles are affecting everyone who invests in learning.
依靠一台联网电脑和一些现金，如何在固定房间内生活三天？这是20年前的一场测试——中国首届72小时网络生存大赛。
How do you spend three days in a fixed room on a networked computer and some cash? It was the first 72-hour online survival contest in China 20 years ago.
彼时，“互联网”尚是一个绝大多数人陌生的词汇，网民数量从一线城市开始零星增长。
At that time, "Internet" is still a strange word for most people, the number of Internet users from the first city began to grow sporadically.
不少全程围观这场比赛的观众生平第一次认识到“互联网”这般神奇的存在，直呼：“网络世界多精彩！”时间拉回当下，面对突如其来的疫情，居家隔离成为必要的防护手段，一场全民互联网生存挑战赛正在上演。
For the first time in their lives, many spectators have recognized the magical presence of the Internet, saying, "How wonderful is the online world!" Time is running out in the face of a sudden epidemic, home isolation has become a necessary safeguard, a national Internet survival challenge is on show.
身处同一条生活之河，教育部“停课不停学”的石子掷出，在线教育行业随之浪起千层。
In the same river of life, the Ministry of Education "non-stop learning" stones thrown out, online education industry waves.
新东方、猿辅导等各大教育平台免费上线直播课，开放优质学习资源；腾讯教育、阿里钉钉等互联网巨头也汇入潮头，全力提供便捷入口和技术支撑，共同铺就孩子成长的线上赛道，2.7亿在校学生的居家学习处处相通。
New Oriental, ape counseling and other educational platforms offer free online classes and open quality learning resources; Internet giants like Tencent Education, Ali Nails, and other Internet giants have flooded in, providing easy access and technical support to pave the way for online child growth, with 270 million students learning from home.
然而，“停课不停学”不等于上网课，上网课也不是简单的课堂转移。
However, "non-stop learning" is not the same as online classes, online classes are not simple classroom transfer.
广义上的学习，是让孩子在生活痕迹中思考本质，借助互联网和信息化教学资源建立属于自己的精神天空。
Broadly speaking, learning is to let children think in the traces of life, through the Internet and information-based teaching resources to establish their own spiritual sky.
教学形式的演进无法代表教育本身的意义，但更普惠的学习资源，更灵活的学习方式，正在影响每一个投入到学习中的主体。
The evolution of forms of teaching does not represent the meaning of education per se, but more inclusive learning resources and more flexible learning styles are affecting everyone who invests in learning.
1面朝平板，“线上”花开“高考也有可能延迟吗？”毕业班的小林盯着书桌上的倒计时数字，感觉现状和自己解数学题时一样不确定。
"Is it possible to delay the college entrance exam?" Xiao Lin, the graduating class, stared at the countdown to the desk, feeling as uncertain as she solved her math problem.
回不了学校，校考也没着落，她只能在家复习文化课。
Can not go back to school, school exams have not been available, she can only review cultural classes at home.
其实，不管是否寒假变“宅假”，小林早已安排好了自己的假期复习计划，每天除了背书刷题，还要上两个小时的直播课，专门补数学。
In fact, whether or not winter vacation into "home leave", Kobayashi has arranged his vacation review plan, in addition to endorsement every day, but also a two-hour live lessons, specializing in mathematics.
直到学校通知“线上开学”。
Till the school announces "Open Online."
小林的课程安排和在校期间一样满满当当，只是全部改到线上，她和同学们开始来回窜到各种班级群里打卡，切不同的平台听课，还要为突然被提问的“风险”提心吊胆……一连串的线上学习体验和她上直播课的感受大不相同。
Kobayashi's curriculum was as full as her school days, but it was all changed to online classes, where she and her classmates began to punch cards in various classes, attend classes on different platforms, and fret about the "risks" of being asked suddenly.
最大的区别是“互动”。
The biggest difference is "interaction."
小林知道自己基础一般，有问题不敢在课堂上举手提问，而在直播课上，她觉得自己“比较放得开一点”，只要把问题发在评论区，主讲老师看到了便会及时讲解，知识能够很好地消化。
Kobayashi knew she was just plain old and was afraid to raise her hand in class, but in live class she felt "more comfortable" and asked questions in the comments section.
课后练习中有不理解的地方，她也曾在深夜急急忙忙“奇袭”助教老师，仍然得到了及时的解答。
After class there is no understanding of the place, she also in the night in a hurry "surprise attack" assistant teacher, still got a timely answer.
从初中阶段开始使用教辅APP到后来上直播课，小林运用互联网作为辅助学习的手段，时间轨迹印证了我国在线教育行业的纵深发展。
From junior high school to the beginning of the use of teaching aids APP to live classes, Xiaolin used the Internet as a means of auxiliary learning, time trajectory confirmed China's online education industry deep development.
今年寒假，杨妈妈第一次给自己的孩子阳阳选择线上课程。
This winter vacation, Yang mother for the first time for their children Yang Yang choose online courses.
和其他家长们交流完学习资源，又亲自去听了猿辅导的“家长课堂”，发现主讲老师能够把学生们“马虎”背后的各种原因一一分析并给出改正方法，杨妈妈这才做出决定。
After sharing the learning resources with other parents and attending the ape counseling "parent class," Yang found that the lecturer was able to analyze the reasons behind the students' carelessness and to suggest ways to correct them.
赶上北京中考新改革，初中的所有科目都要进行考试，计入中考成绩。
In keeping with the new reform of the Beijing Middle School Examination, all subjects in junior high school will be tested and taken into account in the examination results.
“阳阳现在初二，算第一届考生，6月份就要考地理和生物了，时间上真是比较着急。
Yangyang is now the second day of the first test, in June will be the examination of geography and biology, the time is really anxious.
”疫情防护期间，线上课的学习环境不受外界因素干扰，成为校园之外的一种有力补充。
During epidemic prevention, the learning environment for online classes is not disturbed by external factors and becomes a powerful complement outside the campus.
为助力备战中考、高考的学生，猿题库App于2月15日发起了一场“全国百万人同时在线的英语模拟考试”，成为历年以来在线人数最多的一次。
App launched the National Simultaneous Online English Test on Feb. 15, the largest online test of all time, to help students prepare for the mid-term and college entrance exams.
教与学相互作用，考试以最直观的形式把这份结果呈现了出来，培养孩子们更主动地剖析自己的学习过程。
The interaction between teaching and learning, the examination in the most intuitive form of the results presented, to prepare children to more actively dissect their own learning process.
2特殊的工作状态田颖打开电脑，音量加大到100%，在镜头前寻找脸部的对焦点，微笑着说道：“同学们好，今天我们讲‘《城南旧事》与善良的种子’。
Special working condition Tian Ying turned on the computer, turned up the volume to 100%, looked in front of the camera, smiled and said, "Hello, boys and girls, today we are talking about 'Old Things in the City and the seeds of kindness'.
”作为小学语文主讲老师，她每天是在镜头前开始一天的工作。
As a primary school Chinese lecturer, she started the day's work on camera.
疫情来袭后，猿辅导决定为全国中小学生提供免费的巩固学习课，通过深度讲解学科知识点，帮助学生夯实课内基础。
After the outbreak, ape counseling decided to provide free reinforcement learning classes for primary and middle school students throughout the country, through in-depth explanation of the subject knowledge, to help students consolidate the classroom foundation.
因此，除寒假特训营的课程外，田颖还需要额外准备最新上线的免费直播课程。
Therefore, in addition to the winter vacation camp courses, Tian Ying also needs to prepare the latest online free live courses.
第一次在家授课，田颖提前勘察了全家所有房间的墙壁，最后得出结论：客厅。
For the first time at home, Tian surveyed the walls of all her family's rooms in advance and came to the conclusion that the living room.
上课用的桌子又让田颖发起了愁，家里的桌子高度都不合适。
The table for the class worried Tian Ying again. The height of the table at home was not right.
于是，她想办法搬来折叠床，在折叠床上又垒了一个简易的收纳台，这才搭好了自己的“办公桌”。
So she managed to move to the folding bed and set up a simple reception desk on the folding bed. Then she set up her desk.
田颖老师在临时办公桌前备课和以往不同的是，田颖上课也成了全家人的头等大事。
Tian Ying prepares classes at her temporary desk. Unlike in the past, Tian Ying has become a top priority for her family.
临近上课时间，她会提醒家人提前上卫生间，然后躲在各自的卧室，不要出门，不要发出响动，甚至连家里的网也不要用，以免直播过程中网络拥挤而影响上课。
Before school hours, she would remind her family to go to the bathroom ahead of schedule and then hide in their bedrooms. Don't go out or make noise or even use the Internet at home, lest the network jam during the live broadcast.
如此“霸道”的条款被严格执行下来，家人们把客厅和网络让给田颖，也把田颖让给成千上万的孩子们。
Such "domineering" provisions were strictly enforced, families gave the living room and network to Tian Ying, also gave Tian Ying to thousands of children.
在猿辅导的“课堂”里，可以看到各种各样的背景板：有刚入住的新房大白墙，少女心的卡通壁纸，极简风格的瓷砖……无论什么风格，镜头前总有一位老师认真的身影，或在卖力讲课，或者伏案备课，有时忙起来一待就是一天。
In ape-guided "classrooms," you can see a variety of background boards: a new house, white wall, cartoon wallpaper, minimalist tile... no matter what style, there is always a teacher in front of the camera, or working hard, or sitting in class, sometimes busy for a day.
此般重视上课环境的还有亮亮老师，他所在的地点湖北黄冈，尚是疫情地图上颜色最深的区域。
Classroom environment is also bright teachers, his location in Huanggang Huanggang, Hubei, is still the most color map of the epidemic area.
为了避免学生看到房间杂物后分心，他在网上买了一些不同款式的背景板，每天都换不一样的。
To avoid distractions after seeing the clutter, he bought some different backboards on the Internet and changed them every day.
上课的时候，背景布紧贴身后，他必须保持背部挺直的姿势不变，防止背景板出现任何轻微的晃动，“角度要调整得非常完美”。
In class, when the background cloth is close behind him, he must keep his back straight to prevent any slight shaking of the background board, "the angle should be adjusted perfectly."
除讲课外，亮亮老师把大部分时间花在了备课上，单“制作课件”一项，平均每节课就要花费五六个小时。
In addition to lectures, bright teachers spend most of their time preparing for class, "making courseware" alone, which takes an average of five or six hours per class.
一天的课程结束后，他通常留给睡眠的时间最多5个小时。
At the end of the day, he usually leaves up to five hours of sleep.
疫情突如其来，亮亮老师从大年初三就开始着手打磨免费课的大纲，和老师们一起开会讨论，完善课程。
The outbreak of sudden, bright teachers from the beginning of the New Year began to sharpen the free curriculum, and teachers to meet to discuss, improve the curriculum.
仅三天时间，便把千万学子需要的“精神食粮”做好了上线准备。
Only three days, it will be tens of thousands of students need "spiritual food" ready to go online.
数据显示，猿辅导免费直播课开课首日，有500万中小学生在线听课。
Data show that on the first day of the free ape instruction, 5 million pupils attended online classes.
以往每次上课前，亮亮老师都会把书房里特意多装的两道门窗全部关紧，减少噪音干扰。
In the past, every time before the class, bright teachers will study in the study deliberately overloaded two doors and windows all closed, reduce noise interference.
而在这个假期，室外始终和书房一样安静。
On this holiday, the outdoors is always as quiet as the study.
再次端坐在镜头前，他不禁联想到古代守城的将军，而自己守护的是孩子们丰富的学习资源。
Sitting in front of the camera again, he could not help thinking of the ancient warden generals who guarded the children's rich learning resources.
亮亮老师正在授课课堂的另一面，是孩子们的心理状态。
The other side of the classroom where the teacher is teaching is the state of mind of the children.
对于奋斗在一线工作岗位的家长来说，很难照顾好孩子的学习。
For parents struggling in front-line jobs, it is difficult to take care of their children's studies.
蔡蔡老师注意到，平时一向积极的彤彤妈妈已经好几天没有将孩子的随堂小作业发过来，询问得知，彤彤妈妈所在的医疗团队正在陆续组织人手奔赴武汉，她自己已连轴转了好几天。
Ms. Cai noted that her mother, who had been active for several days, had not sent her baby's homework with us. Upon enquiry, she was told that her mother's medical team was organizing a hand-to-hand trip to Wuhan, which she had been working on for days.
没有犹豫，蔡蔡老师给彤彤妈妈在微信留言：“孩子的学习交给我。
Without hesitation, Miss Cai Tsai left a message to her mother in a message: "My child's study to me."
”“你安心做自己的事情，也一定平安回来！”“我和彤彤等你……”寥寥几句话，是一份坚守到底的承诺。
"You can do your own thing in peace, and you will come back safely!" "I am waiting for you today..."
每天的视频课堂上，蔡蔡老师看到彤彤上线才安心，课后也总要在微信上和彤彤聊几句，及时掌握孩子的学习情况，说一些大朋友和小朋友间的“悄悄话”。
Every day in the video class, Miss Cai Cai watched Tongtong on the line to feel at ease. After class, she always chattered a few words on her micro-letter.
这些天来，彤彤的课堂表现活泼如常，课业也没有掉队。
These days, our classroom has been full of activity and our schoolwork has not lagged behind.
这份特别的关爱背后，是为一线医护人员免除后顾之忧的一种帮助，教育在疫情中变得更加有温度。
Behind this special care is the help for front-line health care workers to avoid the worries, education in the epidemic has become warmer.
3不可失败的另一场战“疫”对在线教育而言，行业发展的时间轴已经被疫情改变。
Another Failed Battle Plague For online education, the industry's timeline has been changed by the epidemic.
此前，超万亿的教培市场中，在线教育的占比仍不足10%。
Previously, online education still accounted for less than 10 per cent of the more than $1 trillion teaching and training market.
前瞻产业研究院于2019年年中曾发布《中国在线教育行业市场前瞻与投资战略规划分析报告》，预测2020年中国在线教育市场规模将达到3150亿元。
In mid-2019, the Institute for Forward-looking Industries published an analysis of China's online education sector market outlook and strategic investment planning, predicting that China's online education market will reach 315 billion yuan by 2020.
而今，已有多位教育行业投资人预测，受疫情影响，在线教育的市场普及和市场认知将大幅提升，市场规模也将远超预期。
Now, many investors in the education sector have predicted that the impact of the epidemic, online education market penetration and market awareness will be greatly enhanced, market size will far exceed expectations.
在这次“网络挑战”的蜗居中培养起来的在线学习习惯，正逐渐嵌入到我们的日常，并沉淀为在线教育的行业拐点。
In this "network challenge" of the worm-like learning habits, is gradually embedded in our daily life, and precipitation for online education industry inflection point.
阴霾即将散去，我们更感线上教育的力量：在最困难的时候，它帮助了千万学生教学步入正轨，由假期模式向学习状态转变；不仅详细解答了课本中的知识，也用名家大师的课程拓宽孩子们的眼界。
The haze is coming to an end, and we are more aware of the power of education: in its most difficult moments, it has helped to keep thousands of students on the right track, moving from holiday mode to learning state; it has not only answered in detail the knowledge in textbooks, but also broadened children's horizons with masters' courses.
一些偏远地区的家长则更加重视在线教育。
Some parents in remote areas are putting more emphasis on online education.
同样支持孩子婷婷线上学习的沈爸爸身处广西县城，地理位置邻近越南。
Also supporting children Tingting online study Shen father in Guangxi County, near the geographical location of Vietnam.
作为呼吸科主任，他在疫情中几乎24小时“随时待命”，不仅整个假期没有休息，自身也处于隔离状态，没有条件匀出时间精力和婷婷当面交流。
As the respiratory director, he was "on call" for almost 24 hours during the epidemic, not only without rest, but also in isolation, freeing up time for face-to-face communication with Tingting.
在他看来，使用在线教育这种学习方式，能够打破疫情带来的隔离，更穿透了地域与想象的界限。
In his view, using online education as a way of learning can break down the isolation caused by the epidemic and penetrate the boundaries of geography and imagination.
锤炼多遍的讲义，名师的精辟观点，这些知识的浸润让孩子看到了繁星浩瀚。
Makes the handout many times, the famous teacher's incisive point of view, these knowledge infiltration lets the child see the stars vast.
在疫情面前，企业自身的应变能力是一道严峻考验。
In the face of the epidemic, the enterprise's own response capacity is a severe test.
回望互联网公司阿里巴巴在非典时期迈出的起点，马云在公开场合发言中提到：“非典时期，谁都不应该想到，这是一个机会，而应该想到，大家碰到什么麻烦，我们能够怎么帮助到大家。
Looking back at the beginnings of the internet company Alibaba in the SARS era, Ma said in a public speech: "No one should have thought of SARS as an opportunity, but rather as an opportunity to think about what troubles we are in and how we can help them."
”而在线教育凭借特有优势，与公益结合，在这个特殊时期惠及每个学生。
Online education, by virtue of its unique advantages, combines with the public good to benefit every student in this particular period.
据悉，猿辅导在线教育公司第一时间向武汉捐赠1000万人民币，用于支持一线医务工作者的急缺物资。
An online ape counseling company is said to have donated Rmb10m to Wuhan in the first place to support shortages of front-line medical workers.
同时，面向全国中小学生开放了具有公益性质的免费直播课，包括一线名师亲授的学科巩固学习课，纪连海、蒙曼等顶级学者的大师人文课，以及编程、音乐等能力素养提升课程，在这个“停课不停学”的超长寒假中写下了属于自己的坐标。
At the same time, primary and secondary school students across the country have been given free, pro-bono courses, including hands-on subject consolidation classes by leading teachers, master humanities courses for top scholars such as Jilin Hai and Monman, as well as skills enhancement courses such as programming and music.
战疫仍在继续，但孩子的成长需求不会暂停。
The epidemic continues, but the child's need for growth does not stop.
从疫情本身出发，哀悼、反思和抗疫过程中燃起的人性光芒，是一种珍贵的教育资源。
From the outbreak itself, mourning, reflection and the fight against the epidemic ignited in the light of human nature, is a precious educational resources.
而伴随在线上课全面铺开，在线教育或将嵌入生活，不断激发学习方式变革、教学效率提升，也将碰撞出教育内容和教育思维的更多火花。
And with the spread of online classes, online education may be embedded in life, constantly stimulating learning style change, teaching efficiency improvement, will also collide with the content of education and more sparks of educational thinking.
（专题）。
(Special topics).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
战疫进行时：“好好学习”在线上。
When the epidemic occurs: "Study hard" online.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "战疫进行时：“好好学习”在线上";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“停课不停学”不等于上网课，上网课也不是简单的课堂转移。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
