“人传人”确认之前，“物资告急”之后：一间武汉顶级医院的“战疫”。
"Person-to-person" confirmed before the "material crisis": a top Wuhan hospital "epidemic."
张笛扬。
Zhang Deyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月28日，武汉协和医院感染科病房。
January 28, 2020, Wuhan Concorde Hospital Infection Ward.
（新华社/图）全文共5066字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 5,066 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
从那时起，护士们戴的不再是常规的护士帽，换成了另一种蓝色帽子，需要把头发全部包起来。
Since then, nurses have switched from the usual nurse's hat to another blue one, which requires the hair to be completely wrapped.
李雯记得，医院的N95口罩在她实习结束前已经不够了，1月19日，她所在的科室去领取物资时，只领到了10个N95口罩。
Ms. Li remembers that the hospital's N95 mask wasn't enough for her until her internship ended. On January 19, when her department went to collect supplies, she received only 10 N95 masks.
何烁解释，他们和每家医院的每个科室都是直接联系，光捐往协和医院的物资就有20个不同的科室、不同的收件人。
He explained that they were in direct contact with every hospital department and that the materials donated to Concorde had 20 different sections and different recipients.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张笛扬南方周末特约撰稿 郑伊灵责任编辑 | 吴筱羽2020年1月19日，华中科技大学同济医学院学生李雯收到学校通知，要求所有实习生提前放假回家。
Li Wen, a student at Tongji Medical School at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, received a notice from the university asking all interns to return home early on January 19, 2020.
李雯当时在华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院（以下简称“协和医院”）实习，岗位是护士。
Li Wen was an intern at Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (hereinafter referred to as "Concorde Hospital").
此前两天，她刚刚从呼吸内科被调走，同样被调换到其他科室的，还有呼吸内科所有实习生。
Two days earlier, she had just been transferred from the Department of Respiratory Medicine, as well as to other departments, as well as all interns in the Department of Respiratory Medicine.
没人被告知调整的缘由。
No one was told why.
直到第二天晚上，李雯看到了钟南山在央视连线中说，新型冠状病毒肺炎呈现“人传人”的特点，方才恍然大悟。
Until the following night, Li Wen saw Zhong Nan Shan said in CCTV cable that the new coronavirus pneumonia presented the characteristics of "human-to-human" before suddenly realizing.
但她当时还不知道，钟南山为此援引的病例——14名医务人员在护理一名患者时被感染，就发生在她的实习单位，协和医院。
But she did not know that the case cited by Zhong Nan Shan, where 14 medical staff were infected while nursing a patient, had occurred at Concorde Hospital, her practice unit.
他们是此次疫情中最早为人所知的医护人员感染病例，由此成为疫情防控在1月20日发生转折的标志。
They were the first known cases of infection among health-care workers in the outbreak, marking a turning point in prevention and control on January 20.
医护人员感染在此次疫情中情况严重。
Health care workers were seriously affected by the outbreak.
2月14日下午，国家卫健委副主任曾益新在国务院新闻发布会上介绍，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，其中6人不幸死亡。
On the afternoon of February 14, Zeng Yixin, vice-director of the National Fitness and Health Commission, told a press conference at the State Council that, as of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been confirmed by medical personnel nationwide.
其中武汉市报告了1102例医务人员确诊病例。
Among them, Wuhan city reported 1102 cases diagnosed by medical personnel.
而根据《美国医学会杂志》（JAMA）发表的中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇团队的文章，截至1月28日该院的138例病人中有57例为院内感染，其中40例为医护人员。
According to an article published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) by Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Zhongnan Hospital, 57 of 138 patients had nosocomial infections as of January 28, of which 40 were paramedics.
2月3日流出的一张武汉市医务人员确诊感染病例上报图表中，协和医院的病例超过百例，排名第一。
Feb. 3 outflow of a Wuhan City medical staff confirmed a reported case of infection, Concorde Hospital more than 100 cases, ranked first.
这14名医务人员相对幸运，至2月5日，他们分三批治愈出院。
The 14 medical personnel were relatively fortunate and, by 5 February, they had been discharged in three batches.
从病房乘坐直达电梯下楼，他们打出胜利的手势。
Take a direct elevator from the ward and go downstairs. They make signs of victory.
即便已经知道疫情，在按要求提前放假回家时，李雯怎么也预料不到，协和医院不久后会因为医护感染、物资告急等问题，受到全国关注。
Even when the outbreak was known Li Wen could not have predicted that when she returned home early as requested, Concorde Hospital would soon be receiving national attention for medical problems such as medical infections and emergency supplies.
1 1月中旬开始，气氛“不对劲”了在钟南山央视连线之前，没有医生、老师明确告诉实习生疫情的严重性，但回忆起来，从医院的种种细节上，李雯还是感觉到了“不对劲”。
1 From mid-January onwards, the atmosphere was "not right" Before the CCTV link Zhong Nan Shan, no doctor or teacher clearly told the intern the seriousness of the outbreak, but in retrospect, Li Wen sensed something was wrong with the details of the hospital.
1月中旬开始，呼吸内科的护士老师反复向她强调要做好防护，口罩不能摘。
Beginning in mid-January, the nurse teacher in the respiratory department repeatedly told her to take precautions and not to remove the mask.
她注意到，从那时起，护士们戴的不再是常规的护士帽，换成了另一种蓝色帽子，需要把头发全部包起来。
Since then, she notes, nurses have switched from the usual nurse's hat to another blue one, which requires the hair to be completely wrapped.
李雯在连线时对南方周末记者回忆，她实习时，呼吸内科有3名发热病人住在隔壁病房，医生护士进入那几间病房都会穿上防护服，还要求实习生不能进入隔离病房。
During her internship, Ms. Li told Southern Weekend that three febrile patients from the respiratory department were living in the next room, that doctors and nurses would wear protective clothing when entering those wards and that interns would not be allowed to enter the isolation ward.
“每次看到老师们穿上防护服，实习生们都会十分紧张。
"Every time I see teachers wearing protective clothing, interns are very nervous.
”钟南山央视连线的第二天，武汉市长周先旺在接受央视记者采访时表示，协和医院神经外科的一位病人在做完手术后出现了发热症状，14名医护人员被感染。
The day after the CCTV link, Zhou Xanwang, Wuhan's longtime minister, told CCTV that a patient in neurosurgery at Concorde Hospital developed fever after the operation and 14 paramedics were infected.
周先旺说，“这个教训很深刻，与我们对这个病毒的危害和传播的认识，从一开始没有达到这么高的等级有关。
"The lesson is profound and relates to the fact that our understanding of the danger and spread of the virus did not reach such a high level in the first place," Zhou said.
”“因为我们的感染，钟南山院士调研时就确认了‘病毒可以出现人传人’这一说法，可以说我们的确诊刷新了公众对该病毒的认知。
"" Because of our infection, Academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed in their research that the virus can be passed from person to person, so to speak, our diagnosis has refreshed public awareness of the virus.
”其中一名染病护士在社交平台上发文称。
One of the nurses wrote on the social platform.
另一名染病的护士则是在1月12日的夜班护理了一名高度疑似病人后，1月13日凌晨六点就出现乏力、肌肉酸痛症状，寒战发冷不适，到下午两点测体温38.3摄氏度，于是开始抽血、查CT，各种指标都是高度疑似的表现。
On January 13, after nursing a highly suspected patient at night, another sick nurse showed signs of fatigue, muscle soreness, chills and discomfort at 6 a.m. on January 13, and began to take a temperature of 38.3 degrees Celsius by 2: 00 p. m., so he began to take blood and scan the CT for signs that were highly suspicious.
这位护士称，她在护理疑似病人时已经戴了N95口罩，但没穿防护服。
The nurse said she was wearing a N95 mask while nursing a suspected patient, but was not wearing protective clothing.
防护装备至关重要，但在疫情早期，几乎所有医院都未给予足够重视。
Protective equipment was critical, but in the early stages of the epidemic almost all hospitals did not pay sufficient attention.
近日停靠日本横滨港隔离检疫的钻石公主号邮轮，确诊1名检疫官感染，该检疫官此前在船内开展乘客问卷回收工作，其间戴口罩手套并频繁手部消毒，但也未穿戴防护服和护目镜。
A quarantine officer was confirmed to have been infected by the vessel Princess Diamonds, which was quarantined at the port of Yokohama, Japan, after carrying out a passenger questionnaire collection exercise, wearing face mask gloves and frequent hand disinfection, but did not wear protective clothing and goggles.
前述被感染护士称，直到将近一周后，1月19日，医院有试剂盒可以做核酸检测了，结果显示为阳性。
According to the aforementioned infected nurse, it was not until nearly a week later, on 19 January, that the hospital had a kit that could be tested for nucleic acid, and the results were positive.
她怀着各种忐忑的心情进入隔离区后，发现一起过来的有十几个同事，大家都是第一批确诊的医护人员，“也算不孤单了”。
She went into the quarantine area with a variety of perturbed mood, found together a dozen colleagues, we are the first confirmed medical personnel, "is not lonely."
第一批确诊的医护人员中有一名郑姓神经外科医生。
One of the first doctors to be identified was a neurosurgeon named Zheng.
武汉协和医院公众号发布的文章中，他感慨，“作为一个病人的心态来说，当时真的有些害怕，不愿承认。
"As a patient mentality, I was really afraid and unwilling to admit it," he said in an article released by the Wuhan Concorde Hospital public.
”但作为一名医生，他很清楚地意识到自己可能“中招”了，开始远离家人进行自我隔离。
But as a doctor, he was well aware that he might have "hit the jackpot" and was starting to isolate himself from his family.
同批确诊的还有协和医院急诊科主任张劲农。
Also confirmed was Zhang Jinnon, director of emergency department at Concorde Hospital.
他经历过SARS、经验丰富，是协和医院2019年12月31日成立的应对疫情专家组副组长，主要负责制定疫情的临床救治方案和优化治疗流程。
He experienced SARS, experienced, is the Concorde Hospital on 31 December 2019 set up to deal with the epidemic vice-chairman, mainly responsible for the clinical treatment plan and optimize the treatment process.
他确诊后选择在家隔离治疗，隔离期间仍阅片、讨论病例、指导会诊工作，还起草了《武汉协和医院处置2019新型冠状病毒感染策略及说明》，该方案日后在网络上被广泛传播。
After his diagnosis, he chose to stay at home for treatment. During the isolation period, he continued to read the film, discuss the cases and guide the consultation work.
随着疫情发展，后来再有协和医护人员染病，但更准确的统计数字目前难以获得。
As the outbreak progressed, Concorde's medical staff became ill, but more accurate statistics are difficult to come by.
一位协和医生在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时称，他们当时唯一能做的就是一再嘱咐就诊患者：“口罩、口罩、一定要买口罩、戴口罩。
In an interview with China News Weekly, a Concorde doctor said the only thing they could do was repeatedly order patients to see a doctor: "Mask, mask, make sure you buy a mask, wear a mask.
”2020年2月11日，广东医疗队武汉前方ICU团队在武汉协和医院西院与后方广州医科大学附属第一医院举行远程视频会诊。
On February 11, 2020, an ICU team from the Guangdong Medical Team in front of Wuhan held a teleconsultation at the Western Hospital of Wuhan Heping Hospital and the First Hospital Affiliated to Guangzhou Medical University.
（新华社/图）2 从2个医生到4个医生，再到8个医生李雯当初是抱着仰慕来实习的。
From 2 doctors to 4 doctors to 8 doctors Li Wen started her internship with admiration.
“协和非常厉害，是国内的顶尖医院，医生老师们都很专业，要是毕业后能去那里工作就很好了。
"Concorde is a very good hospital in China. The doctors and teachers are very professional and it would be nice to work there after graduation.
”“协和”是中国医疗界的“金字招牌”。
"Concorde" is the "gold-lettered signboard" of the Chinese medical profession.
武汉协和医院在官网中自称，该院为目前国内三大协和医疗品牌中规模最大。
Wuhan Concorde Hospital said in the official website, the hospital for the domestic three Concorde medical brands in the largest scale.
该院于1866年由英国传教士杨格非创建，定名为汉口仁济医院，1928年更名为汉口协和医院。
The hospital was founded in 1866 by the English missionary Yang Gefei. It was named Hankou Yan Chai Hospital and renamed Hankou Concorde Hospital in 1928.
2000年，随其所属的同济医科大学并入新组建的华中科技大学。
In 2000, Tongji Medical University, to which it belongs, was integrated into the newly established Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
协和也是武汉其中一家最大的医院。
Concorde is also one of the largest hospitals in Wuhan.
就主要医疗指标而言，该院是中国顶级的综合医院：年门急诊量602.8万人次，住院量25.5万人次，手术量逾12万台次。
As far as the main medical indicators are concerned, the hospital is China's top general hospital with 6.028 million emergency cases, 255,000 hospital admissions and 120,000 surgeries per year.
在复旦大学医院管理研究所发布的2018年度中国医院排行榜中，武汉协和医院名列全国第12位。
Wuhan Heping Hospital ranked 12th in the 2018 annual list of Chinese hospitals released by the Fudan University Hospital Management Institute.
令李雯印象较深的是，医护人员对病人的态度特别好，“老师们不管再怎么累，都带着笑容跟病人讲话。
However tired the teachers were, they all talked to the patients with smiles. However tired they were, Li Wen was impressed by the attitude of medical staff towards her patients.
”这扭转了她对医生的刻板印象。
This reversed her stereotypical portrayal of the doctor.
让李雯受触动的还有职业感，“护士们总是对患者的名字、床位和药品核对一遍又一遍”。
Li was also struck by a sense of professionalism. "Nurses always check the names of patients, beds and medicines over and over again."
疫情将这间顶级医院带入了前所未有的紧张状态。
The outbreak has brought unprecedented tension to this top hospital.
该院是武汉六十多家设有发热门诊的医院之一，而该院西院区，被武汉市定为第三批收治发热病人的定点医院之一，成为防疫治疗的一线“战场”。
Wuhan is one of more than 60 hospitals with a fever clinic, and the west courtyard area of the hospital, by Wuhan as one of the third batch of designated hospitals to treat febrile patients, has become a front-line "battlefield."
在组建专家组的2019年12月31日，协和决定建呼吸道传染病隔离病区。
On 31 December 2019, when the expert group was formed, Concorde decided to establish an isolated respiratory infectious disease area.
协和医院距离被认为疫情主要起源地的华南海鲜市场不到4公里。
Concorde Hospital is less than 4 kilometers from the South China seafood market, which is thought to be the main source of the outbreak.
据财新报道，随着疫情暴发，来到医院发热门诊的病人最多时一天可达八九百人。
According to Caixin, as the outbreak of the outbreak, the hospital fever clinic can come to a maximum of 8, 900 patients a day.
但这里过去没有呼吸道传染病病房。
But there used to be no respiratory infectious disease wards.
感染科大楼一楼整层改成了呼吸道传染病病房。
The entire ground floor of the Infection Section Building was converted into a respiratory infectious disease ward.
很快便填满了，接下来，二层、三层、四层也变成了呼吸道感染病房。
Soon it filled up and the second, third and fourth floors were converted into respiratory infection wards.
原有的近三十名医生不够用了，医院动员了全院内科资源，尤其是呼吸科和急诊科的内科医生来轮班。
There was a shortage of nearly 30 doctors, and the hospital mobilized its internal medicine resources, especially the respiratory and emergency physicians, to work in shifts.
原本门上挂着“专家门诊”的诊室，全部被用作发热门诊就诊室。
Originally there was a "specialist clinic" on the door, all of which was used as a fever clinic in the clinic.
体检中心大厅，也成了发热门诊输液大厅。
Medical examination center hall, also became the fever clinic infusion hall.
在发热门诊工作的医生李伟在接受采访时透露，每天从排2个医生到排4个医生，再排到8个医生，三班倒看病，24小时接诊，差不多每天400个号。
In an interview, Li Wei, a doctor at the fever clinic, told reporters that there were two doctors in a row, four doctors in a row, eight doctors in three shifts a day, and around 400 visits a day.
为防止病人交叉感染、造成更大范围蔓延，协和医院后来关闭了发热门诊，派出专家医护团队进驻定点医院开展诊疗，发热门诊及隔离病房的医疗措施和相应病人全部转移。
In order to prevent cross-infection and spread of the disease, Concorde Hospital later closed the fever clinic, dispatched specialist medical teams to the designated hospital to carry out consultations, medical treatment in the fever clinic and isolation ward and the transfer of all patients.
儿科医生林鸣被抽调到了成人发热门诊，他在“微头条”上分享：为了节约防护服，他早餐时会多吃一点，坚持到下班后脱掉防护服后再吃饭。
Pediatrician Lin Ming, who was transferred to an adult fever clinic, shared it on the microheadlines: 'To save on protective clothing, he eats more at breakfast and doesn't eat until he takes off his protective clothing after work.
“活了三十多年”，林鸣还第一次穿上了纸尿裤，不过他很快发现，工作时无法分心，尿不出来，便没再穿了。
"Living for more than 30 years," Lin also put on his diapers for the first time, but he soon found that he could not be distracted at work, could not pee, and did not wear any more.
也会有“丧”的时候。
There will be times of mourning.
2月1日晚，林鸣接到发热门诊主任的电话，“有两个兄弟发烧倒下了”，之后他的夜班得调整为从晚八点到早八点，“我跟主任在电话里都沉默了，最后他说了句‘保重’就挂断电话了。
On the night of February 1, Lin Ming received a telephone call from the director of the fever clinic. "Two brothers fell down with fever." Then his night shift had to be adjusted from 8 pm to 8 am.
”2020年2月8日，首都医科大学宣武医院呼吸内科副主任肖汉（右）在武汉协和医院与同事在一起。
On February 8, 2020, Xiao Han (right), deputy director of respiratory department at Xuanwu Hospital of the Capital Medical University, was with his colleagues at Wuhan Concord Hospital.
（新华社/图）3“物资不是告急，是没有了”之后13公里外，被定为第三批新冠肺炎定点医院的协和西院，已在一月底将住院楼改造为专治住院楼，有来自北京、陕西、黑龙江等地的医疗队来此驰援。
About 13 kilometers away, the Concorde West Hospital, designated as the third-generation New Crown Pneumonia Hospital, converted its in-patient building into a special hospital building at the end of January, with medical teams from Beijing, Shaanxi and Heilongjiang.
北京朝阳医院急诊科副主任唐子人是前来驰援的北京医疗队成员，他也是朝阳医院医疗分队队长。
Tang Zi-yan, deputy director of emergency department at Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, is a member of the Beijing medical team who came to rescue him.
唐子人的名字是因为写在防护服上，而为人所知的。
The Tang Zi person's name is because writes on the protective clothing, but is known.
外地赶来的医疗队员本就不太熟悉，穿上防护服后就更难相认了，于是，每个人在防护服上写上了自己的医院和姓名，大大的字。
The medical team that arrived from the outside world was not familiar enough to recognize each other even more when wearing protective clothing, so each person wrote his own hospital and name on the jacket in big letters.
1月30日，唐子人在微博上发了一张自己全身穿戴防护用品的照片，写道，“虽然每进入一次病房，将近十个小时不能吃喝，但比起武汉人民正在经历的磨难，这点苦真算不了什么。
On January 30, the Tang Dynasty posted a picture of himself wearing protective gear on Weibo, which reads: "Although nearly 10 hours of food and drink are not allowed for every entry into the ward, it is nothing compared to what the Wuhan people are going through.
”不少网友发现，唐子人的裤腿上疑似绑上了黄色的医疗垃圾袋，上面还印有字。
"Many netizens have found that the legs of Tang Zi people are suspected to be tied to the yellow medical garbage bag, also printed on the top.
同日，身份认证为协和医院神经外科医生的用户发布微博表示，医院物资“不是告急，是没有了”，引发了公众对该院物资情况的关注。
On the same day, users who were certified as neurosurgeons at Concorde Hospital posted Weibo, saying hospital supplies were "either critical or non-existent," drawing public attention to the hospital's material situation.
1月31日，有网友发布照片表示，由于物资紧缺，协和医院西院一线医护人员以黄色垃圾袋等材料自制防护服和口罩。
On January 31, netizens released photos showing that due to the shortage of materials, Concorde Hospital West Hospital front-line medical staff with yellow garbage bags and other materials made of self-made protective clothing and masks.
对此，武汉协和医院后来辟谣称图文均不属实。
To this, Wuhan Concorde Hospital later denied that the pictures and text are not true.
唐子人也否认了自制防护服一事。
Tang Zi people also denied the self-made protective clothing.
他在连线时对南方周末记者表示，“无论是口罩还是防护服，物资目前来讲还是比较充足的，至少上一线的人肯定是能保障的。
"Whether the mask or protective clothing, the material is still relatively adequate, at least on the front line is sure to be guaranteed," he told Southern Weekend reporter.
”唐子人说，救治工作已经走上正轨，正有条不紊地开展。
Tang Zi said the treatment was on the right track and was proceeding in an orderly manner.
武汉协和医院的确是此轮疫情中最早发出接受社会捐赠公告的医院。
Wuhan Concorde Hospital was indeed the first hospital in the epidemic round to issue a public donation announcement.
2020年1月23日，该院就对外发布了接受爱心捐赠的公告，表示急需护目镜、N95口罩、外科口罩、防护服等用品。
On January 23, 2020, the hospital issued a notice accepting charitable donations, saying it urgently needed goggles, N95 masks, surgical masks, protective clothing and other supplies.
这确是实情。
That is the truth.
李雯记得，医院的N95口罩在她实习结束前已经不够了，1月19日，她所在的科室去领取物资时，只领到了10个N95口罩，主班护士让大家省着用。
Ms. Li remembers that the hospital's N95 mask wasn't enough for her until her internship ended. On January 19, when her department went to collect supplies, she received only 10 N95 masks.
协和医院公众号发布的一篇推文也透露出物资短缺的现状，1月23日，该院耳鼻咽喉科三位医生完成了向武汉市红十字会医院转运感染患者的任务，转运过程中，由于物资短缺，其中一位医生没有防护面罩，只好用游泳眼镜替代。
On January 23, three doctors from the hospital's otorhinopharyngeal department completed the task of transferring infected patients to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital. During the transit, one of the doctors had no face shield and had to use swimming glasses instead.
协和医院党委副书记孙晖在接受央视采访时回答称，“物资紧张，但没到‘弹尽粮绝’的地步”。
In an interview with CCTV, Sun Hui, deputy secretary of the hospital's Communist Party committee, replied: "Material constraints, but not to the point of" running out of food. "
孙晖举例称，作为分管发热门诊的党委副书记，他之前每天都要到发热门诊去转一转， 物资紧张之后就没再去过，因为要把防护服省下来给一线使用。
As a case in point, Sun said that as a deputy party secretary in charge of the fever clinic, he used to go to the hot clinic every day.
一线之外，其他科室也可能遇到发热和肺炎病人，但他们的供应就非常紧张。
Outside the front line, other departments may also experience fever and pneumonia, but their supply is tight.
协和外科医生张毅告诉南方周末记者，“口罩和防护服还是不太够，只能限量供应”，他所在的科室每天给值班医生发两个N95口罩，不值班的医生每天发一个。
Zhang Yi, a Concorde surgeon, told Southern Weekend that "masks and protective clothing are still not enough and can only be supplied in limited quantities" and that his office issued two N95 masks a day to the doctor on duty and one to the off-duty doctor.
协和的物资状况连续引发强烈关注之后，来自各地的民间捐赠物资涌入该院。
After a series of intense concerns about Concorde's material situation, donations from local communities poured into the hospital.
1月30日，由华科德国校友会捐赠的首批物资被直接运抵协和医院。
The first batch of supplies donated by the Wako German Alumni Association arrived directly at Concorde Hospital on 30 January.
华科德国校友会秘书长何烁告诉南方周末记者，一看到武汉协和医院和同济医院物资紧缺，他们就行动起来，从德国采购物资运回国内。
He Shuo, secretary-general of the German Alumni Association of China, told Southern Weekend that as soon as they saw the shortage of supplies in Wuhan Concorde Hospital and Tongji Hospital, they started to purchase goods from Germany and send them back home.
两家医院均为华中科技大学的附属医院。
Both hospitals are affiliated with Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
除了向母校两家医院捐赠外，华科德国校友会筹措的物资共发往了湖北省16个城市共计64家医院。
Alumni Association of China donated materials to 64 hospitals in 16 cities in Hubei province, in addition to donating to the two alma mater hospitals.
何烁解释，他们和每家医院的每个科室都是直接联系，光捐往协和医院的物资就有20个不同的科室、不同的收件人。
He explained that they were in direct contact with every hospital department and that the materials donated to Concorde had 20 different sections and different recipients.
截至2月2日，来自全国9省份的40家单位定向捐赠物资，都直接运往了协和医院。
As at 2 February, 40 units of targeted donations from nine provinces of the country had been delivered directly to Concorde Hospital.
2月1日下午，一架直升机空降武汉新华路体育场，机上有800套定向捐赠给协和医院的防护服。
On the afternoon of February 1, a helicopter parachuted Xinhua Road Stadium in Wuhan, carrying 800 suits donated to Concorde Hospital.
张毅告诉南方周末记者，随着大量捐赠物资涌入，医院的物资短缺情况已有所好转，张毅所在的科室护目镜数量有限，之前是几个医生轮流使用，现在给每个人都配发了一个，每次用完后，用酒精消毒再接着用。
Zhang told Southern Weekend reporter that with the influx of donations, the shortage of hospital supplies has improved, Zhang Yi's section goggles, which were used by several doctors on a rotational basis, is now given to everyone, after each use, sterilized with alcohol before re-use.
但张毅也证实，很多捐赠物资都不是医用防护用品，医院收到了不少用于防尘、防霾的口罩。
But Zhang also confirmed that many of the donated materials are not medical protective supplies, the hospital received many used for dust, haze mask.
但医用口罩又确实不够，张毅和同事们想了折中的方法，将工业N95口罩和医用外科口罩摞起来戴着用。
But the mask wasn't enough. Zhang and his colleagues worked out a compromise, stacking industrial N95 masks and medical surgical masks for use.
“现在大多数医生护士还挺乐观，虽然隔着口罩，但见了面还能有说有笑。
"Most doctors and nurses are optimistic that they can talk and laugh when they meet, even though they are wearing masks.
”张毅说。
"said Zhang Yi.
李雯也注意到，协和医护的微信朋友圈里，没人抱怨，倒是不少人发“武汉加油”，给自己鼓劲。
Li Wen also noted that the micro-letter of Concorde medical friends circle, no one complained, but a lot of people "Wuhan refueling," to their own encouragement.
然而，紧张的气氛不时在医院大楼里浮现。
However, from time to time a tense atmosphere arose in the hospital building.
张毅的一名同事几天前开始有发热症状，护士在高压下情绪激动、流泪的情景，也越来越多。
A colleague of Zhang Yi began to have febrile symptoms a few days ago. Nurses are becoming more and more emotional and tearful under high pressure.
（张毅、李雯为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Zhang Yi, Li Wen for a pseudonym) collect Southern Weekend is now open to all readers in the front line of the new crown pneumonia news clues.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“人传人”确认之前，“物资告急”之后：一间武汉顶级医院的“战疫”。
"Person-to-person" confirmed before the "material crisis": a top Wuhan hospital "epidemic."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“人传人”确认之前，“物资告急”之后：一间武汉顶级医院的“战疫”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at a top Wuhan hospital.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
