没时间悲伤，他们需要帮助。
There's no time to grieve. They need help.
陈莉莉。
Lily Chen.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
司机停下车来思忖着说，怎么给导到这里来了？那是一条土路，树在旁边矗立着。
The driver stopped to think how to get here. It was a dirt road, and the tree stood next to it.
春天还没到来，它的叶子还没长出来。
Spring had not yet come, and its leaves had not yet come out.
“前方800米左转，500米后再左转”，导航里的声音软糯着。
"800 meters in front of the left turn, 500 meters after the left turn", the voice in the navigation soft waxy.
金银潭医院是此次行程的目的地。
Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was the destination of the trip.
这是武汉市最大的传染病医院，如果不是因为新冠肺炎的暴发，更多人知道的是它的另一个名字：武汉市医疗救治中心。
This is Wuhan city's largest infectious disease hospital, if not for the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, more people know its other name: Wuhan City Medical Treatment Center.
平时，它也让人不想接近，当地人的说法是：都是传染病，比如艾滋病。
Usually, it is also unapproachable, local people say: are infectious diseases, such as AIDS.
远远的，84消毒液的味道，不知怎么就进了封闭的车厢，进了车内人的嗅觉里。
Far away, the smell of 84 disinfectant, I do not know how to enter the closed car, into the car inside the sense of smell.
浓浓的，散不去。
It's thick. It won't disperse.
医院门口，一辆120停着，车外几个蓝色衣服的人和穿着防护服的医生，压低声音地商讨着，一旁有人举着设备记录。
In front of the hospital, a man with 120 stops, a few blue clothes outside his car and a doctor in protective clothing were talking in a low voice while someone was holding a record of the equipment.
不知道车内的人是什么情况。
I don't know what happened to the people in the car.
没时间悲伤门卫问一个走进医院的人，你找谁？那人说，找一个患者。
No time to grieve The doorman asked a man who had walked into the hospital who were you looking for? The man said, Find a patient.
门卫往后转了转身，回头问他：“这后面三栋楼都是患者，全都是（新型冠状病毒）肺炎。
The guard turned back and turned to him. "The three buildings behind us are full of patients, all of them pneumonia.
你找哪个？”疫情暴发以来，进出金银潭医院的患者超过800人，医院有600多名职工。
"Since the outbreak, more than 800 people have been admitted to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital, which employs more than 600 people.
武汉金银潭医院（图/无畏）48岁的樊艳青是600多职工之一，是金银潭医院的放射科主任。
Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital (picture / dauntless) 48-year-old Fan Yanqing is one of more than 600 employees, is the director of the radiology department of gold and silver pool hospital.
她带的团队有21人，主要工作是为所有住入医院隔离病区的重症和危重患者，拍CT片和拍X光片，填写入院病情评估报告。
With a team of 21, her main job was to take CT and X-rays and complete the assessment report on admission to the hospital for all critically ill and critically ill patients living in isolated areas.
樊艳青说她时刻提醒自己，“不要流泪。
Fan Yanqing said she always reminded herself, "Do not shed tears.
眼睛是用来看CT和X光片子的”。
The eyes are for CT and X-rays.
她目睹了各种肺部感染的患者，有的甚至成了“白肺”。
She has seen cases of various lung infections, some of which have become "white lungs."
“没时间悲伤，必须及时高效写出病情报告，这种新型冠状病毒在肺部变化快。
"There is no time to grieve. We must write a timely and efficient report of the coronavirus, which is changing rapidly in the lungs.
”樊艳青支持将CT结果纳入新冠肺炎诊断的标准，对于此次疫情中的病患来说，这是一个能更快筛查、诊断的方式。
Fan supports the inclusion of CT findings in the criteria for new crown pneumonia, a faster way to screen and diagnose patients with the disease.
樊艳青认为，核酸检测试剂盒是一种精准的确诊手段，但由于每个人体征不一样，会呈现出假阴性的情况。
Fan Yanqing believes that nucleic acid test kit is an accurate means of diagnosis, but because of the different body signs of each person, a false negative situation.
比如，病毒已深入肺部，咽拭子检测不一定明确，只能算是疑似患者。
For example, the virus has penetrated deep into the lungs and pharyngeal swab tests may not be definitive and only suspect.
“这次新型冠状病毒肺炎患者的肺部影像，最显著的表现是肺部感染呈磨玻璃病变，重症患者的肺部出现一片白。
"The most striking manifestation of this lung image in the patient with the new coronavirus pneumonia is that the pulmonary infection is a grinding glass lesion and the lungs of the critically ill patient are white.
”而每一张“白肺”片子，就意味着一名患者挣扎在死亡的边缘。
And every white lung movie means a patient is struggling to die.
2月2日，武汉大学中南医院影像科主任徐海波教授（白衣者）与同事在查看患者的CT检查影像2月6日，关于“将CT影像检查作为高度疑似病例筛查主要依据”的呼吁，被纳入国家卫健委最新发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》。
On February 2, Professor Xu Haibo, director of the imaging department of Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, and colleagues examined CT images of patients. The call for CT imaging as the main basis for screening highly suspicious cases was included in the newly released Diagnostic and Therapeutic Programme for New Coronavirus Pneumonia (Trial Version 5).
根据最新版的诊疗方案，CT结果纳入湖北临床诊断标准。
According to the latest diagnosis and treatment plan, CT results are included in Hubei clinical diagnosis standard.
呼吁来自以武汉大学中南医院张笑春为首的多名抗疫一线的医务专家。
Calls from Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Zhang Xiaochun led by a number of first-line anti-epidemic medical experts.
一直奋斗在一线的张笑春认为，应将CT检查作为新冠肺炎的主要诊断依据，结合流行病学史和临床表现判断病情，让重症患者优先住院，让轻症患者集中隔离。
Zhang Xiaochun, who has been struggling in the first place, believes that CT examination should be taken as the main diagnostic basis for new crown pneumonia, combining epidemiological history and clinical manifestation to judge the disease, so that patients with severe illness priority hospitalization, so that light patients in isolation.
她说，“病毒核酸检测是最终确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎无创诊断的金标准，然而检测出‘CT阳性、核酸阴性’的结果，可能影响临床排查。
"Viral nucleic acid testing is the gold standard for the final diagnosis of the non-invasive diagnosis of coronavirus pneumonia," she said.
目前新型冠状病毒核酸检测特异性高、敏感性偏低，不排除存在部分假阴性。
At present, the detection of new coronavirus nucleic acid is highly specific and sensitive.
”“CT检查方便、快捷、直观，在基层医院易于普及。
"CT examination is convenient, fast and intuitive, and easy to popularize in basic hospitals.
虽然CT只是辅助诊断手段，但在新型冠状病毒肺炎形势严峻的今天，武汉等地区的防控必须采取‘不放过一个’的非常规手段，减少交叉感染。
Although CT is only an auxiliary diagnostic means, but in today's severe situation of the new coronavirus pneumonia, Wuhan and other areas of the prevention and control must take 'no miss' the unconventional means to reduce cross-infection.
” 电话那头，张笑春不时咳嗽。
At the other end of the line Zhang laughed and coughed.
同时她也提醒，CT阳性和病毒核酸检测阴性的患者，也要被纳入隔离治疗的范畴，非常时期“宁错勿漏”，即使是其他病原体肺炎，也会因为及时治疗而受益。
Patients who test negative for CT-positive or viral nucleic acid should also be included in isolation treatment, she said. "Don't miss a chance," even if it's pneumonia, will benefit from prompt treatment.
“只有这样才能够尽快控制传染源、切断传播途径，使得尽可能多的人不被感染，以及感染的无症状患者能及时被发现和及早治疗。
"Only in this way can the source of infection be quickly controlled, transmission cut off, as many people as possible uninfected, and asymptomatic patients promptly identified and treated.
”樊艳青说，在此之前，金银潭医院已将CT报告作为病情评估的第一道关口。
Fan said the hospital had taken the CT report as the first point of assessment.
她说，CT机对这种病毒感染很敏感，可以做到早发现。
CT machines, she said, are sensitive to the virus and can be detected early.
她对团队里的人也再三叮嘱，“病毒隐藏很深，必须细心甄别”。
"The virus is very hidden and must be carefully screened," she told the team.
往前一点，哪怕不及2月3日，武汉宣布在三处地方计划修建方舱医院时，张芳急了。
A little further on, even if less than on February 3, Wuhan announced plans to build a cabin hospital in three places, Zhang Fang was in a hurry.
她在朋友圈说汉口北批发城有相对独立的空间可以供患者使用，她征求了其他业主的意见，业主们也都同意。
She said in a group of friends that Hankou North Wholesale City has relatively independent space for patients to use, she consulted other owners, who agreed.
张芳表示，每家商铺50平方米左右，还有的 100平方米。
Zhang Fang said that each shop about 50 square meters, there are 100 square meters.
商铺购买于9年前，一直以来，招租率不高，没有正常投入使用。
Shop buying nine years ago, has been, hire rate is not high, did not put into use normally.
只有少部分商铺平日开张，但大部分还是闲置未用状态，对张芳来说，“最重要的是，每个商铺水、电、气、中央空调都具备”。
Only a few shops open on weekdays, but most of them are still unused. For Zhang Fang, "the most important thing is that every shop has water, electricity, gas and central air conditioning."
在张芳看来，这样有利于避免交叉感染。
In Zhang Fang's view, this is conducive to avoiding cross-infection.
武汉一个会议中心改成的临时医院张芳快言快语，现在一切就是赶时间。
Wuhan a conference center into a temporary hospital Zhang Fang fast-talking, now everything is in a hurry.
她说现在很多电话打给她，她疲于应接，又不敢不接，怕万一是真正重要的电话。
She says she's getting a lot of calls these days, and she's too tired to answer them without answering them, for fear that they might be really important.
为了不影响家人，她一直坐在阳台。
She sat on the balcony so as not to disturb her family.
对她来说，真正重要的电话是来自卫生健康机构有决策能力的人。
For her, the really important calls came from people with decision-making power in health-care facilities.
他们能决定是否征用她们的商铺，她说，她的出发点很简单，就是“赶紧让患者住进去，赶紧好起来”。
They can decide whether to expropriate their shops, she said, starting with the simple idea of "let the patient live in now and get better soon."
上万张床位的方舱医院，专门收治轻症患者与65岁以下的患者。
Tens of thousands of beds in the square cabin hospital, specialized in treating light patients and patients under the age of 65.
45岁的吉玲是入住患者之一，与她一样，入住后的患者对方舱医院的硬件条件、医护设备，充满了紧张感，她认为，可能满足不了她们作为患者的需求。
Like the 45-year-old, who is one of the patients admitted, the patients are stressed about the physical conditions and medical facilities at the cabin hospital, which she believes may not be able to meet their needs as patients.
吉玲的丈夫也是新冠肺炎感染者之一。
Gileen's husband is also one of the newly infected with pneumonia.
“他是重度，在金银潭医院。
"He is in a severe, gold and silver pool hospital.
”吉玲的紧张，对轻症患者居家还是集中又提出了新的疑问。
Gileen's nervousness raised new questions about whether light patients were still concentrated in their homes.
一直在抗击肺炎一线的微博博主“协和医生do先生”同样也看到了来自方舱医院患者的声音。
The microblogger "Mr. Do Concorde," who has been fighting pneumonia on the front line, also saw voices from patients at the cabin hospital.
武汉方舱医院“方舱医院是为了救人。
Wuhan square cabin hospital "Fang cabin hospital is to save people.
”他希望，现在不要给方舱制造负面舆论，如果让其他患者都拒绝入住，害的是更多人。
He hoped that instead of creating negative public opinion about the cabin now, more people would be hurt if all other patients refused to move in.
负面的评价与预估，也会让住进方舱医院的病人更加恐慌，扰乱正常医疗秩序 。
Negative assessments and projections can also cause more panic among patients admitted to the cabin hospital and disrupt normal medical order.
“万事开头难，请大家耐心等待，生活物资和医疗服务措施会慢慢跟上的，也会让患病的病人慢慢康复，更是保护自己心爱的家人。
"Everything is beginning to get worse, so please be patient and wait," he said. "The supplies and medical services will follow, and the sick patients will recover slowly.
”在他看来，根据现在一万多例病人的分析，这些进入方舱医院的轻症患者95%以上都可以自愈，坚持2~3周就能自愈出院了。
In his view, based on an analysis of more than 10,000 patients now, more than 95% of the light patients admitted to the cabin hospital were able to heal themselves and remain in hospital for two to three weeks.
而且，医院里每天都会有医生巡查，那些少于5%的患者万一不幸病情加重，将会优先安排进入定点医院进一步治疗，不用等床。
In addition, doctors visit hospitals every day, and in the event of an unfortunate increase in less than 5 per cent of patients, priority will be given to admission to designated hospitals for further treatment without having to wait for a bed.
“你呆在方舱医院的每一天，都是为了救你的亲戚朋友、乡亲父老。
"Every day you stay in the cabin hospital is to save your relatives, friends and folks.
相信国家，相信政府。
Believe in the country, trust the government.
”2月11日，江汉和武昌方舱医院共有34名患者达到出院标准，成为第一批“出舱”患者。
On February 11, 34 patients from the Jiang Han and Wuchang Fang Hospitals met the discharge criteria, becoming the first patients to leave the cabin.
其中，江汉方舱6人，武昌方舱28人。
Among them, Jiang Han cabin 6 people, Wuchang square cabin 28 people.
与此同时，能够容纳6000张床位的汉阳方舱医院也正式启用。
Meanwhile, the Hanyang Fang Hospital, with a capacity of 6,000 beds, was officially opened.
我是武汉人，我知道的截止至2月12日17时，全国确诊病例达到44763例，但与确诊、疑似和死亡人数同时增加的，还有治愈者的数据，如今治愈人数已经增加至4976人。
As of 17: 00 on February 12, the number of confirmed cases nationwide had reached 44,763, but the number of cases increased simultaneously with the number of diagnosed, suspected and dead, as well as the number of cured people, which has now increased to 4,976.
武汉某医院外科医生石强认为，应该利用网络视频平台，请现在痊愈的患者分享自己的感受，鼓舞那些轻症患者，网络视频实时交流提问。
Wuhan a hospital surgeon Shi Qiang, should use the network video platform, please now heal patients to share their feelings, encourage those who are light disease, online video exchange questions in real time.
他认为这强过医护和亲人。
He thinks it's better than medical attention and family.
“战场除了需要宣传，也需要牧师。
"Battles need priests as well as propaganda.
”他的观点得到同行的认同。
His views were shared by his peers.
他说疫情暴发以后，有很多关于什么药有效、哪里又建医院了的信息，“更重要的应该是从建设性的流程和管理方向反思”。
After the outbreak, he said, there was a lot of information about what worked and where hospitals were being built. "It's more important to think about constructive processes and management."
石强不在一线，也不是一线对口专业的医生，“一线医生都累晕了，高度紧张”。
Shi Qiang is not in the first line, nor is the first-line professional doctor, "the first-line doctors are tired, highly nervous."
他认为，整个事件可以从中国疾病预防控制中心应该在这种公共卫生事件中的地位和权限多提建设性意见。
He said the whole incident could be viewed constructively from the position and authority that China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention should play in such public-health events.
图/无畏是什么让我们没有提高预警程度？在他看来，是疾病预防控制中心没有把危险性足够表达出来。
What is it about fearlessness that keeps us from raising the alert level? In his view, it is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that is not expressing enough danger.
“有的医院医护发现感染后就听从了专业医生的警示，提高了防护。
"Some hospital staff have followed the advice of professional doctors when they found out about the infection and improved their protection.
所以那个医院医护感染人数是最少的，他们偷偷取消了医院所有集体会议、活动，包括春晚。
So that hospital had the lowest number of hospital patients who secretly cancelled all group meetings and activities, including the Spring Festival Gala.
因为大张旗鼓，一旦问责就会引起社会恐慌。
Because of the publicity, once accountability will cause social panic.
”而一线医护发生感染，就足以说明一切。
And first-line care infections are enough.
“急诊科人员在这种季节都会戴口罩、帽子。
"Emergency staff wear masks and hats during these seasons.
反观泰国和香港地区就非常警惕，说明他们的体系建设是到位的。
Thailand and Hong Kong, on the other hand, are wary that their systems are in place.
”最早查出来的新冠肺炎患者有治愈的，“可以把他们作为典型案例。
The first cases of new crown pneumonia found to be curable "can be taken as a typical case.
如果要分析背后更深层次的原因，需要找到典型大医院那段时间发热门诊的挂号量。
If you want to analyze the deeper reasons behind the need to find a typical large hospital in that period of time calorific outpatient registration.
”究竟，应该制定什么样的政策，应该怎样发布，才不会造成医疗恐慌和挤兑？“当时的急诊挂号量，也可以分析出，这种医疗恐慌和挤兑，造成了大量交叉感染，普通流感病人被感染成为了新冠肺炎。
What kind of policies should be put in place, and how should they be issued, so as not to cause medical panic and runs? "" The amount of emergency registrations at the time, as well as the analysis of such medical panic and runs, resulted in a large number of cross-infections and common influenza patients became newly infected with pneumonia. "
”石强说他作为医生最担心的是，“如果基层社区工作没办法做到位，后面就很难办”。
Shi said his biggest worry as a doctor was that "if grass-roots communities are unable to do their jobs, it is difficult to do so later."
政府发布了强制隔离措施，不管同不同意，必须遵守。
The Government has issued compulsory isolation measures which, with or without consent, must be complied with.
“这实际上涉及政策制定问题，政策制定需要科学依据，也需要考虑人文和人群心理因素，在这个疫情面前，任何政策必须是利他才能利己。
"This is really a matter of policy development, which requires a scientific basis, as well as human and psychological considerations, and any policy must be altruistic in the face of the epidemic."
政策不考虑人性中的阴暗面是不行的。
Policies do not take into account the dark side of human nature.
”与此同时，此次疫情中的志愿者徐丹丹在自己家里感到呼吸出现了问题，“呼吸急促，而家里只有她一个人”。
Meanwhile, Xu Dandan, a volunteer in the outbreak, felt breathing problems in his home, "short of breath while she was alone."
此前武汉志愿者车队54岁的何辉去世，引起人们对加强志愿者防护的呼吁和重视。
Wuhan volunteers before the death of 54-year-old Ho Hui, caused people to strengthen the protection of volunteers and attention.
徐丹丹的电话号码和社区医院电话被传到了网上。
Xu Dandan's telephone number and that of the community hospital were uploaded online.
采访时，徐丹丹正在医院门口排队。
At the time of interview, Xu Dandan was standing in line at the hospital.
她说：“所有人都需要帮助。
Everyone needs help, she said.
我是志愿者，我知道流程是什么样的。
I'm a volunteer. I know what the flow is like.
这时候，每个人只能走流程，我不是有特权的人，我不能只想着自己，而把别人的生命排除在外。
At this time, everyone can only go through the flow, I am not privileged people, I can not just think about themselves, and other people's lives excluded.
每个人的生命都很宝贵。
Everyone's life is precious.
因为我的事情，很多人给我的社区医院打电话，社区说接到30多个电话，这样就导致电话占线，其他求助者打不进来。
Because of me, a lot of people called my community hospital, and the community said it had received more than 30 calls, which caused the line to be busy and other suitors couldn't get in.
我是武汉人，我现在身体不舒服，遇到这种情况，我心里知道的。
I am Wuhan people, I am not feeling well, encountered this situation, I know.
”（文中吉玲、石强、徐丹丹为化名）作者 | 陈莉莉编辑| 李少威排版 |阿丽菜南风窗新媒体出品__点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
"(In the text, Jilin, Shi Qiang, Xu Dandan, an alias) Editing and Li Shaowei at Li Shaowei's South Window New Media Out _ Click on the latest issue of Window of the South to buy the latest issue of Window of the South to see the voice of reason spread farther.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
没时间悲伤，他们需要帮助。
There's no time to grieve. They need help.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "没时间悲伤，他们需要帮助";。
var msg _ title = & quot; didn't have time to grieve; they needed help with & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“战场除了需要宣传，也需要牧师。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "The battlefield requires not only propaganda but also priests.
”";。
";;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
