患者的心理问题也要被重视。
The psychological problems of patients should also be taken into account.
黎璇。
Le Xuan.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
如今在武汉，有很多家庭需要进行居家隔离。
Now in Wuhan, there are many families who need to be separated at home.
在这漫长的十多天里，他们并非一座孤岛，很多志愿者和社工为他们提供了不少的帮助。
They were not an island for more than a decade, and many volunteers and social workers helped them a lot.
“好多亲友在封城前就劝我们离开，但作为专业社工，我们该留下来做些什么。
"A lot of friends and family have been trying to persuade us to leave, but as professional social workers, we have to stay and do something.
”陈兰兰是武汉市逸飞社会工作服务中心的理事长，封城的消息传出后，她就以志愿者身份发起成立了新冠肺炎疑似症状者及居家隔离后援社群，通过微信群聊为病患提供心理支持和医疗咨询服务。
Chen Lanlan, director of Wuhan's Yafei Social Work Service Center, launched the New Crown Pneumonia Suspected Symptoms and Home Segregation Support Community as a volunteer to provide psychological support and medical consultation through a group chat.
“大家害怕的是对生活失去掌控感”“最开始的时候每天微信群里有5000条信息量。
"What everyone fears is a loss of control over their lives." "At first there were 5,000 messages in the microphone group every day.
”陈兰兰说，“那些问答都是关于自己疑似症状的咨询。
"Those questions and answers are all about counseling for my suspected symptoms," Chen says.
”和确诊人数一起增加的是人们的恐慌和焦虑。
Along with the number of confirmed cases, there has been an increase in panic and anxiety.
病毒仿佛无处不在，一个小感冒的信号远比平时要丰富得多。
Viruses seem to be everywhere, and a little cold signals are much richer than usual.
时值寒冬，咳嗽流鼻涕原只是家常便饭，在此刻却成了触动人们最敏感的神经末梢的危险症状。
At the height of winter, coughing and runny noses, which were the order of the day, were now dangerous symptoms of the most sensitive nerve endings.
“我最近感冒发烧，有没有可能是新冠肺炎？”这几乎是群里出现得最多的句子。
"I've had a cold and fever lately. Is it possible that I have pneumonia?" This is almost the most common sentence in the group.
家住武汉的李南是在大年三十通过同行微信群聊加入陈兰兰的团队的专业心理咨询师。
Li Nan, who lives in Wuhan, is a professional counselor who joined the team of Chen Lanlan in the New Year's Eve.
市民对现状的焦虑她感同身受，“因为到处都是十万火急，到了医院挂号前面有几百个人排队，打针也几百人排队。
"She sympathized with citizens' anxieties about the situation." There were hundreds of people lining up in front of the hospital register and hundreds of people queuing up to get shots.
”她回忆道，“大家都害怕，我也一样。
"Everyone is afraid," she recalls, "and so am I.
”“我们在武汉的这些人真的一点办法也没有，那些情况紧急的人也许就是邻居，也许就是同学的父亲或者是我们曾经的同事，我们内心没办法不起波澜。
"" We in Wuhan really can't do anything about it. Those in urgent circumstances may be neighbors, or fathers of classmates or former colleagues, and we can't help it.
”说到这儿，李南哽咽了。
"Li Nan choked up.
比病毒更可怕的，还有面对未知的恐惧。
More terrifying than the virus, and the fear of facing the unknown.
“最初那几天消息很多，而且都很负面。
"The first few days were a lot of news and very negative.
况且大家处在隔离的家庭环境里，根本无法分散注意力。
Moreover, the isolation of the people in a family environment, there is no way to distract attention.
”范平雨介绍道，她是深圳市社福社会工作督导与评测发展中心总监，深耕医务社工领域，经朋友介绍加入了陈兰兰的团队，负责社工志愿者培训以及个案社工的督导。
"She is the director of the Shenzhen Social Welfare Supervision and Evaluation Centre for Social Work. She has been introduced by friends to join her team, which is responsible for the training of social workers and supervision of case social workers," he said.
“肺炎最初的症状很普通，所以一个喷嚏都容易让人陷入恐慌。
"Pneumonia's initial symptoms are very common, so a sneeze is prone to panic.
”范平雨如此解读市民的心理成因，“平时感冒是可控的，严重了大不了上医院打针吃药。
"Fan Pingyu so interpret the psychological causes of the public," peacetime cold is controllable, serious hospital injection to take medicine.
但现在不一样，疫情蔓延得这么快，市民有了症状无法分辨是感冒还是肺炎，去医院又怕交叉感染，甚至因为医疗资源不足没法确诊和住院，原本的自救措施失效了。
But now, unlike today, the epidemic is spreading so fast that citizens have symptoms that they cannot tell whether they have a cold or pneumonia, travel to hospitals and fear cross-infection, or even lose their self-help measures when they cannot be diagnosed and hospitalized because of inadequate medical resources.
大部分居家隔离的市民怕的是不确定性，以及对未来失去掌控感。
Most isolated residents fear uncertainty and a loss of control over the future.
”“我们不会主动放弃每一个患者”“倾听、陪伴，首先允许并接纳他有这样那样的感受，让他被看到被关注。
"We don't give up on each and every patient." "Listen, be there, allow and accept his feelings first and foremost, and let him be seen to be noticed.
”李南说，“这是社工和心理志愿者此次心理支援的第一步”，一味地否定求助者的负面情绪，对情绪缓解并无帮助。
"This is the first step in psychological support for social workers and psychological volunteers," Li said. "It is not helpful for emotional relief to simply negate the negative feelings of the caller.
“而且，医务志愿者在微信群里对求助者的回应和答复就是在最直接地安抚他们。
"What's more, the response and response of the medical volunteers to the callers in the microphone group was to placate them most directly.
社工们也会整合政府发布的最新应急措施和政策，给患者更多求助线下医疗资源的渠道。
Social workers will also integrate the latest emergency measures and policies issued by the Government to give patients more access to off-line medical resources.
”李南说，“这些都在无形中传递着这样的信息：尽管客观条件不够完美，但志愿者们仍在尽力援助，社会并没有遗弃他们，这会重建市民们对社会的信任感和安全感。
"All of this implicitly conveys the message that although objective conditions are not perfect, volunteers are still doing their best to help, and society has not abandoned them, which will rebuild citizens' trust and sense of security in society.
”志愿者们还会建议患者及家属们按摩艾灸，甚至运动和聊天，恢复日常作息，尽量将他们的注意力从负面新闻上转移。
The volunteers also advised patients and their families to massage moxibustion, even exercise and chatting, to resume their daily routine and try to divert their attention from the negative news.
“让他们主动去做一些对自身免疫力有帮助的事，就是在帮助他们减轻不安全感。
"By giving them the initiative to do something that helps their immunity, they are helping to reduce their sense of insecurity.
最重要的找回平时生活的节奏。
The most important thing is to regain the rhythm of everyday life.
”范平雨总结道。
"concludes Fan Pingyu.
对于情况严重的患者，社工们会为他们提供个案服务。
Social workers provide casework services to patients in serious condition.
个案社工会全面评估患者的医疗、心理、社会、物资需求，帮助患者链接相应的社会资源，陪伴他们直到结案。
The case union comprehensively assesses the patient's medical, psychological, social and material needs, helps the patient link the corresponding social resources, and accompanies them until the case is resolved.
范平雨曾遇到一个严重疑病，甚至因情绪严重出现身体不适的市民。
Fan Pingyu has encountered a serious suspected illness, even due to serious emotional symptoms of the public discomfort.
主治医生给他做的检查都显示并未感染、身体正常，但他一直认为是医生误诊。
Examinations given to him by the attending physician showed no infection and no signs of illness, but he continued to believe that the doctor had misdiagnosed him.
他认为他其实病了，但周围人都不把他的情况放在心上，甚至因此而情绪激动。
He thought he was really ill, but no one around him took his condition to heart, and even got excited about it.
“这个个案我们仍在介入中，他需要特殊干预。
"We are still involved in this case and he needs special intervention.
我们会组织不同科室的医生共同网络会诊,给他权威的解答。
We will organize a network of doctors from different departments to consult and give him authoritative answers.
同时深入做心理疏导，接纳他的主观感受，帮助他表达和发泄情绪，情绪有了出口，就不会以躯体症状的方式体现。
At the same time do psychological counseling, accept his subjective feelings, help him express and vent emotions, emotional outlet, not in the form of somatic symptoms.
”范平雨说。
"said Fan.
援助项目中也会出现一些相对“棘手”的个案。
There are also relatively "tricky" cases in aid programs.
团队的社工本已和一个老年患者的家属建立了友好亲切的关系，但是到了后期老人病情恶化得很迅速，社工也暂时无法链接医疗资源。
The social workers of the team had already established a friendly and cordial relationship with the family of an elderly patient, but by late stage the elderly had deteriorated rapidly and social workers were temporarily unable to access medical resources.
在紧急情况下，家属突然之间情绪激动，对社工产生抗拒心理，最后甚至把社工拉黑了。
In an emergency, the family suddenly became emotionally aroused and rebellious towards the social worker, and eventually even blackened the social worker.
“这样社工也没办法跟进，后来我们采取的办法就是找受患者信任的医疗专家，让医生跟他单独接触，让他安心一些。
"There was no way for the social worker to follow through, so we sought out a trusted medical specialist and left the doctor alone to reassure him.
”当被问道对于社工而言，是否即便项目中发生摩擦，也必须继续关照服务对象时，范平雨说：“处理工作中的人际矛盾本身就是工作的一部分，我们绝不会主动放弃任何一个患者。
When asked whether social workers must continue to care for their clients even if there is friction in their projects, Fan said: "Managing interpersonal conflicts at work is part of the job, and we will never give up any of our patients.
已经住院能接受更好的治疗的我们才会结案。
We won't close the case until we've been hospitalized for better treatment.
”社工和心理从业者都被社会赋予了必须悦纳和包容的义务，他们必须不带偏见地对待每一个人。
Social workers and mental workers are obliged by society to be receptive and inclusive, and they must treat everyone without prejudice.
范平雨很清晰地记得她大学期间的老师曾讲过这样一个故事：“假设你最害怕蟑螂，而此刻就有一只最大的蟑螂停在你女儿身上，你再怕也要把它给赶跑。
Fan Pingyu vividly remembers her college teacher telling this story: "Suppose you are most afraid of cockroaches, and now the biggest cockroach stops on your daughter and you are afraid to run away with it.
”实际上，社工和心理从业者也总是会面对这样的“蟑螂”，因为他们无法选择服务对象。
In fact, social workers and mental workers often face such cockroaches because they cannot choose whom they want to serve.
每当这种时刻，对服务对象的关爱就能帮助他们克服恐惧或抵触。
At times like these, caring for the person they serve can help them overcome fear or resistance.
“社会有自我纠错的功能”正月十五，元宵佳节。
"Society has the function of self-correction" January 15, Lantern Festival.
陈兰兰告诉《南风窗》记者：“我们第一批出现症状的居家隔离者，很多都完全康复了。
"Many of our first home isolators who had symptoms were completely recovered," Chan told Window South.
”更有一位湖北的女性患者小洁高兴地告诉居家隔离后援团的志愿者：“我靠‘自救’痊愈了。
A female patient from Hubei province, Xiao Jie, was delighted to tell the volunteers in the group: "I got well by self-help.
”起初，发现自己疑似感染，她就立即离开了家人，准备自我隔离。
At first, finding herself suspected of infection, she immediately left her family, ready to isolate herself.
七岁的女儿给她装好了她喜欢的水果，离家下楼的时候她最担心的仍是家人是否会被传染。
Her seven-year-old daughter had packed her favorite fruit, and when she left the house to go downstairs, she was still worried that her family would be infected.
咳嗽、心慌、咽痛、胸闷、直至最后在CT影像报告上看到“磨玻璃”的字眼……眼看自己的症状与新冠肺炎一一吻合，小洁不无惶恐。
Cough, panic, sore throat, chest tightness, until finally in the CT image of the word "grind glass..." Seeing their symptoms and the new crown pneumonia one by one, clean is not without fear.
“亲眼见到穿白色防护服的医生出现在自己面前，那个恐惧和震撼我至今难忘。
"Seeing a doctor in a white suit in front of me was an unforgettable horror and shock.
”她说。
'she said.
在居家隔离后援团队的专业人士的陪伴和指导下，她给自己制定了一系列“自救方案”——规律作息、按时用药、清淡饮食、适度锻炼、保持心情愉悦。
Accompanied and guided by professionals in her home-based segregated support group, she has developed a series of "self-help programs" - regular sleep, regular medication, light meals, moderate exercise, and maintaining a happy mood.
直至复查显示“病灶完全消失”，小洁才彻底放下心来。
It was not until the review showed that the lesion had completely disappeared that Xiaojie was completely relieved.
这对于社群内所有志愿者而言，无疑是最大的喜讯。
This is undoubtedly the greatest piece of good news for all volunteers in the community.
“与专业心理咨询师些微有些不同，社工会更注重整体的社会氛围。
"There is a slight difference between professional counselors and social workers, who are more concerned with the overall social climate.
如果这一个小的社会环境呈现出的是正能量的氛围，那么个体之间就会互相影响。
If this small social environment presents a positive energy atmosphere, individuals will interact with each other.
”范平雨说。
"said Fan.
这种民间自助互助力量的出现，或许就是社工们最希望看到的结局。
The emergence of this kind of civil self-help force is perhaps the most desirable outcome for social workers.
社会资源有限的情况下，人的主动性会被激发出来，互相给予一些温暖。
With limited social resources, people's initiative is aroused and gives each other some warmth.
“我们的社会有自我纠错能力，疫情中出现很多曲折，总体情况是向好的。
"Our society has the ability to correct itself, there are many twists and turns in the epidemic, the overall situation is good."
”范平雨说。
"said Fan.
这场肺炎瘟疫是始料不及的灾难，在物资短缺、乃至全民恐慌的情况下，志愿者们的民间力量在一针一线缝补着社会的创伤。
The pneumonic plague was an unexpected disaster, and in the midst of shortages and even national panic, the civic forces of the volunteers sewed the wounds of society.
武汉作为疫情中心不得已封城，不仅是这座城市，每个家庭、甚至每个人都成为了孤岛。
Wuhan as the epicentre of the epidemic, not only the city, every family, and even everyone has become an island.
专业的社工团队搭建了一座桥梁，让更多患者和市民通向自救的堡垒。
A team of professional social workers has built a bridge, allowing more patients and citizens to lead to the fort of self-help.
（文中小洁、李南为化名）作者 | 黎璇排版 | STAN南风窗新媒体出品__点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
The new media outlet _ _ _ _ _ _ bought the latest issue of Window of the South to see the voice of reason spread farther afield.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
患者的心理问题也要被重视。
The psychological problems of patients should also be taken into account.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "患者的心理问题也要被重视";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我们不会主动放弃每一个患者”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "We won't voluntarily give up every patient" & quot;;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
