滞留在武汉，我们想回家。
Stay in Wuhan, we want to go home.
陈莉莉。
Lily Chen.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
有武汉人滞留在外地，就有外地人滞留在武汉。
Wuhan people stay in the field, there are outsiders stranded in Wuhan.
1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布封城。
In the early morning of January 23, Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
2月10日，湖北省以外的地区陆续开工，这让滞留在武汉的人更希望知道出城的日期。
Work began on Feb. 10 in areas outside Hubei province, making it more desirable for those stranded in Wuhan to know the date of their departure.
恰值人口高峰流动期，没有数据统计滞留在武汉的人到底有多少。
At the peak of the population flow period, there are no statistics on the number of people stranded in Wuhan.
但各有各的原因，有人回家探亲，有人高速上走错了路，有人转机经停武汉，有人到武汉来看病，有人从英国过来看男朋友。
But for different reasons, some people home to visit their families, some people on the wrong road on the wrong road, some connecting flights stop Wuhan, some people to Wuhan, some people from the United Kingdom to see their boyfriends.
这场疫情，这次封城，改变了太多人一时的计划，也给他们带来了更多的思考。
The outbreak, this time the siege, changed the plans of too many people for a while, but also brought them more thought.
我们听听两个滞留在武汉的人的故事，听听她们为了回家，走了哪些路。
We listen to the story of two people stranded in Wuhan, listening to the road they took to go home.
以下来自她们的口述。
The following comes from their dictation.
上海的千千和江西的家家，她们说她们想早点回家。
Thousands in Shanghai and families in Jiangxi say they want to go home early.
上海的千千：妈妈说，等疫情稳定了，就能回来了我老公是武汉人，每年过年，我们都会回来。
Thousands of people in Shanghai: Mom said that when the epidemic stabilizes, my husband is Wuhan, every New Year, we will come back.
以前都是年前腊月廿七、廿八回武汉， 这次我们是1月22号中午回到。
It was the 27th and 28th return to Wuhan the year before last. This time we were back on January 22nd at noon.
武汉宣布封城是1月23号凌晨。
Wuhan declared the city closed in the early hours of January 23.
我们回来之前，武汉已经说有疫情，我还蛮担心的，毕竟我的两个孩子，小的还在读幼儿园。
Before we came back, Wuhan had said that there was an epidemic, I rather worried, after all, my two children, the youngest is still in kindergarten.
我们打电话回来跟家里人确认，家里人给我们的反馈是说是造谣的，造谣者都被抓到派出所了，电视台也放这个新闻了。
We called home to confirm with our family that the feedback from our family was that the rumors had been disinformation, that the rumors had been taken to the police station and that the news had been aired on the television.
我们一听觉得没太大事，也就回来了。
As soon as we heard it, we came back.
主要是家里有两个老人，我们一年也就聚这么一次，我当时就想，实在不行，过了年三十就回上海吧。
The main thing is that there are two old people in our family, we also gathered here once a year, I thought at that time, really can't, after the year 30 back to Shanghai.
看到武汉封城的信息，是1月23日上午九点半左右。
Wuhan see the information, January 23 around 9: 30 a.m.
我们22号中午到的，当晚吃饭到很晚，我呢，人也比较累，就睡了个懒觉。
We arrived at noon on the 22nd and ate late that night. I, too, was tired and slept in.
第二天打开手机一看，封城了。
The next day opened the phone, sealed the city.
特别害怕，很恐慌。
I'm scared. I'm scared.
怕回不去。
Afraid of going back.
那天还有信息说加油站也关闭，我老公第一时间就是赶快去加油。
That day there was a message that the gas station was closed, and my husband's first time was to go and refuel.
因为车子没有油，就是可以走，也走不了啊。
Because there is no gas in the car, we can go and we can't go.
加油站那边，排了很长的队，应该很多人都跟我们一样的情况。
There's a long line over there at the gas station, and a lot of people should be in the same boat as us.
所以说加油站关闭是谣言。
So it's a rumor that the gas station is closed.
这时候会有很多谣言，都不知道信哪个，不信哪个。
There will be a lot of rumors about which to believe and which not to believe.
我们就想着，初一（1月25日）试试看，看能不能其他的途径走出去。
Let's just think about the first day of junior high school (January 25) and see if we can get out in some other way.
初一那天早晨，我们开车出去，开了100多公里，路全部都被封了，很多小路都被挖掘机挖掉了，就是那种一挖为二的挖掉，乡村的泥巴路也都挖断了。
On the morning of the first day of junior high school, we drove more than 100 kilometers, the roads were blocked, many paths were dug by excavators, the kind dug in two, the dirt roads in the countryside were cut.
当时查手机说（湖北）咸宁那边还没有封，但是我们连武汉市都出不了。
At that time looked up the mobile phone said (Hubei) Xianning side has not been sealed, but we can not even out of Wuhan.
顿时感到无助和伤心欲绝。
Suddenly feel helpless and heartbroken.
我是家里的独生女，我爸爸妈妈在上海。
I'm the only daughter in my family. My parents are in Shanghai.
我在这边，老公正带我和孩子到处找出城的路，找不着，上海我妈妈那边，不知道为什么突然之间脚疼，疼得没办法走路，而且那时候上海的疫情也闹得蛮凶了。
I am here, old justice and my children to find the way around the city, can not find, my mother in Shanghai, I do not know why suddenly the foot pain, pain can not walk, and then the outbreak of disease in Shanghai was quite fierce.
已经开始严禁出门、戴口罩了。
The ban on going out and wearing masks has begun.
大年初一，医院也不一定能开门，我能怎么办呢？我的情绪一下子就崩溃掉了。
New Year's Day, the hospital may not be able to open the door, how can I do? My mood suddenly collapsed.
我爸爸妈妈年纪大了，不会开车，住的地方到医院也有一定的路程，我求助小学时的同学。
My parents are old, can not drive a car, living to the hospital is also a certain distance away, I turned to primary school classmates.
我同学帮我打听到，医院确实是不开门。
My classmate helped me find out that the hospital was indeed closed.
后来我妈妈就是硬扛，疼得受不了，吃了一点止痛药。
Later, my mother is hard to carry, the pain is too much, took a little painkiller.
吃了药以后，第二天自行恢复了，可以下地走了。
After taking the medicine, he recovered himself the next day and was able to go down.
她就第一时间跟我联系，安慰我说，没事了。
She contacted me the first time to reassure me that it was all right.
其实也有可能她还在疼，她只是不想让我着急。
It's possible she's still hurting. She just doesn't want me to worry.
后来我们就每天中午一次、晚上一次视频电话。
Afterwards, we have a video phone call once a day at noon and once a night.
我妈妈就叫我安心一点，不要着急，她就说，等疫情稳定了，就能回来了。
My mother told me to calm down, don't worry, she said, when the epidemic has stabilized, can come back.
确定自己回不去了，我主要就是担心孩子的学业和身体状况，还有公司的经营。
To make sure I can't go back, I'm mainly worried about my child's school and health, and the company's operations.
我在想，不能坐以待毙，先想办法自救啊。
I'm thinking, you can't just sit tight, figure out how to save yourself.
每天就打电话，网上搜索，关于疫情每天都有很多新闻，到处都是说武汉人滞留在外地，但也有很多外地人滞留在武汉呀。
Every day on the phone, online search, there is a lot of news about the epidemic, everywhere said that Wuhan people stay in the field, but there are also many foreigners stranded in Wuhan.
这些滞留在武汉的外地人怎么办呢？在一架起飞的航班上，小孩正戴着口罩做作业（图/拾城 崔力）我现在比较着急的，是我孩子的开学问题。
What about the foreigners stranded in Wuhan? On a takeoff flight, the child was wearing a mask to do his homework (pictured above).
我儿子今年正好是初三，毕业班。
My son is graduating class in junior high school this year.
原则上是2月17日开学。
In principle, it begins on 17 February.
我怕影响到他学习，先打武汉市长热线，再打上海市长热线。
I am afraid to affect his study, first hit Wuhan City long hotline, and then call Shanghai Mayor's Hotline.
武汉市长热线就说肯定是出不了城的，也没有相关文件。
Wuhan city director hotline said that is certainly not out of the city, there are no relevant documents.
我就对他说，你把我们的情况反应一下吧。
And I said to him, 'React to our case.
上海市长热线，我上午打过去，下午就回复给我了。
Shanghai Mayor's Hotline. I called in the morning and answered in the afternoon.
他们把我的问题反馈到了我们所在区的教委，教委就给我来电话。
They sent my questions back to the school board in our district, which called me.
他们就说帮我们一起反馈，叫我不要给孩子压力，问孩子学习方面需不需要帮助，作业带了没有。
They tell us to help us feedback together, tell me not to give pressure on children, ask their children whether they need help with their studies, homework with or without.
然后学校和班主任也跟我联系了，当时是大年初二。
Then the school and the head teacher also contacted me, it was the second year of New Year.
老师发了一些初三下半学期要学的知识，让孩子先预习，现在又有网课，就说让孩子通过网课来提升自己。
The teacher sent some junior middle school semester to learn some knowledge, let the children first preview, and now there are online lessons, said let children through the Internet to improve their own.
我们自己经营一家实体加工厂。
We run a physical processing plant ourselves.
上海（2月10日）复工了，前两天有客户已经在跟我下订单了，急着要货。
Shanghai (Feb. 10) resumed work, the other two days have customers and I have placed orders, urgent to order.
我们在这边回不去。
We can't get back here.
工人也都是外地的，回到上海，肯定要自行隔离14天，我们没有办法复工。
The workers were also out of town. When we got back to Shanghai, we would have to isolate ourselves for 14 days. We couldn't get back to work.
公司的运作，肯定是越到后面，影响会越大。
The more the company operates, the more influence it will have.
对做生意的人来说，要么是赚，要么就是亏。
People in business are either earning or losing money.
现在我们都处于停滞状态，那肯定是亏钱的，也不知道何时能运作。
Now that we are all at a standstill, it must be losing money, and we don't know when it will work.
我现在每天看新闻，看大数据。
I read the news every day and watch big numbers.
总的来说，与疫情有关的数据是在下降的，那么多的医疗队来武汉，我相信有一天肯定会控制得了的。
Generally speaking, the data related to the epidemic is decreasing, so many medical teams come to Wuhan, I believe one day will be under control.
肯定只要耐心等待，这个等待肯定是很漫长。
Surely it will be a long time to wait, just wait patiently.
我们在这个空间里不能出去，就更觉得漫长。
If we can't get out of this space, it's even longer.
现在我也开始找一些娱乐措施，和一些滞留在武汉的人聊聊天，放放松。
Now I also began to find some entertainment measures, and some people stranded in Wuhan chat, relax.
我不是滞留群体里最难的，毕竟我在武汉有吃有住还和家人在一起，有很多人食宿都有问题，他们有的就是当时经过武汉，有人就是过来武汉看病，但是一封城，都走不了。
After all, I had food, housing and family in Wuhan, there are a lot of people with food and accommodation problems, they are either passing through Wuhan, some people are coming to Wuhan, but a city, can not walk.
通过一圈电话了解下来，有些人劝我说，现在你的事情在国家利益面前肯定是要先放一放的。
Through a circle of telephone to understand, some people advised me that now your affairs in the national interest in front of the certainly put aside.
现在控制疫情是最大的事情，不能说你自己去想怎么样就怎么样。
Controlling the epidemic is the biggest thing right now. You can't just do what you want.
希望疫情早日过去，国家强大稳定，我们老百姓才能有幸福的生活。
We hope that the epidemic will soon be over, the country will be strong and stable, so that we can have a happy life.
江西的“家家”：我特别想拥抱父母我是1月22晚上9点多从西安抵达武汉，计划23号11点左右从武汉到赣州，我带着我女儿，我们是从武汉转机。
From Wuhan to Ganzhou on January 23rd, I plan to take my daughter from Wuhan to Ganzhou. We are connecting flights from Wuhan to Ganzhou.
机票，我们是提前就定好了的，出发前也看到说武汉有疫情，但是也有辟谣，我心想，不就是转个机就走嘛，又不停留。
Before we set out, we also saw that Wuhan had an epidemic situation, but there are rumors, I thought, is not a turnstile to go, and do not stay.
我经历过非典，当时有点严格，但没有封城。
I have experienced SARS, then a bit strict, but no blockade.
那晚下飞机后，我们就在武汉机场附近的酒店住了下来。
After we got off the plane that night, we stayed at a hotel near Wuhan airport.
第二天一早，酒店老板就对我说，你可能走不了了，武汉宣布封城了。
The next morning, the landlord said to me, you may not be able to go, Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
我当时就傻了。
I was stupid.
突然之间宣布封城，之前没有任何提示，我们22号那晚在飞机场，也没有看到工作人员戴口罩，或者是提醒我们要变更行程什么的。
Suddenly, without warning, we were at the airport on the night of the 22nd and no staff member was seen wearing a mask or alerting us to change our itinerary or anything.
一觉醒来，就是封城的消息，我们措手不及。
When we wake up, it's the news of the city. we're taken aback.
我赶紧联系我们那趟航班，就说已经取消了。
I hastened to contact our flight and said it was canceled.
当时就很害怕，六神无主，在这个陌生的城市里，无依无靠，又是春节，而且还“人传人”。
At that time was very scared, lost, in this strange city, helpless, Spring Festival, but also "person-to-person."
真的是太难受了。
It's really hard.
机场酒店费用有点贵，每晚要200多块钱，我是单亲妈妈，最近还辞职了。
The airport hotel is a bit expensive. It costs more than $200 a night. I'm a single mother. I recently resigned.
就是因为辞职，我让女儿从赣州到西安，我们一起玩一玩，然后就准备赣州老家了，才被滞留在这里的。
Because of resignation, I let my daughter from Ganzhou to Xi'an, we played together, and then ready to Ganzhou home, just stay here.
一看走不了，我想不能就这样消费，得找便宜一点的酒店，得控制所有的成本。
Can not walk, I think not just consumption, have to find a cheaper hotel, have to control all the costs.
他们说武昌区的酒店价格没有那么贵，一晚上100块钱吧。
They say the hotel price in Wuchang district is not so expensive. One hundred yuan a night.
我们就找了一辆出租车，从机场到武昌区，出租车的价格也是一下子就涨了，150元起价，不打表。
We found a taxi, from the airport to Wuchang District, taxi prices are also up at once, 150 yuan starting price, not the table.
我们找了一家小旅馆，很多大的酒店要么太贵，要么不营业。
We found a small hotel, many of which were either too expensive or closed.
我就问旅馆老板，能不能稍微优惠一点，他说不能。
I asked the landlord if he could give me a little discount. He said no.
现在每天吃饭靠吃外卖。
Eat take-out every day.
菜品很少，尤其是绿叶菜，都不方便，很多菜都进不来，这些都可以理解的。
Few dishes, especially green leafy vegetables, are inconvenient, many dishes can not enter, these are understandable.
2月8日，武汉一位顾客从店里买完水果后离开比起有滞留在这里的人，只能住停车场，连手机充电都充不了，我们母女俩也算是好多了。
On Feb. 8, a customer in Wuhan left the store after buying fruit. He had to live in a parking lot and couldn't charge his cell phone.
我女儿今年读高一，也不知道这封城会不会影响到她的学习，现在也都是在上网课。
My daughter is a freshman this year, I do not know whether the city will affect her study, now are also in online classes.
但是我们被困得生活都过不下去了。
But we're stuck in a rut.
我担心会给她带来不好的影响，但转念想，她小小年纪遇到这种事情，也是一个磨炼吧。
I was afraid it would have a bad effect on her, but then I thought it would be a discipline for her to encounter such a thing at a young age.
我们住的小旅馆附近的药店买不到口罩，幸亏我们从西安过来时，包里有防雾霾的口罩，有时候实在要外出了，就应应急。
The drugstore near our small hotel couldn't buy masks. Fortunately, when we came from Xi'an, we had smog masks in our bags. Sometimes we had to go out in case of emergency.
但严格来说，它跟隔离冠状病毒的口罩是两回事，但是我们只有它们。
But strictly speaking, it is not the same thing as a mask that isolates coronavirus, but we only have them.
酒精、消毒液、手套，我也没有买到。
I didn't get any alcohol, disinfectant, gloves.
我俩带的衣服不多，日常更换都有问题。
We don't have many clothes. We're having problems changing our clothes.
爸妈知道我被封住的时候，他们比我还慌，我也只能安慰他们。
When my parents found out that I was blocked, they panicked more than I did, and I could only comfort them.
我就说，我们很好，就是被困在这里了，让他们放心。
I said, we're fine, we're stuck here, and we're reassuring.
父母年龄大了，不能让他们太担心，孩子呢，我也不能给她太多压力。
My parents are too old to worry too much, son, and I can't put too much pressure on her.
就是上有老，下有小，想哭，连个哭的地方都没有。
I mean, old and young, I want to cry, I don't even have a place to cry.
所以，我就说我只能自己寻求政府部门的解决方案。
So I said I had to look to the government for a solution.
我找了民政部门、旅游局，找了交警、社区，也打了市长热线和防疫指挥部，都没有用。
I found the civil affairs department, the tourist bureau, found traffic police, the community, but also the mayor's hotline and epidemic prevention command, all in vain.
其实被困在这里的人，每个人都走过这么一个流程。
In fact, the people trapped here, everyone has gone through such a process.
我打防疫指挥部的电话，对方说，你知道我们防疫指挥部是干什么工作的吗？社区的人就说，我们也管不了啊，我们也是第一次遇到这种情况啊，我们是基层人员，就是按文件、按政策办事啊。
I called the cordon sanitaire, and they said, 'Do you know what our cordon sanitaire does?' And the community said, 'We can't help it, but this is the first time we've had this situation.
有时，我就在想，那些滞留在外地的武汉人，武汉政府帮助他们回武汉，我们江西政府，对滞留当地的武汉人也有一个很好的接待。
Sometimes I wonder if the Wuhan people who have been stranded in other places could get back to Wuhan by the Wuhan government. Our government in Jiangxi has also given a good reception to the Wuhan people who stay there.
但是我们来自五湖四海，因为封城这件事凑巧被滞留在这里的人，遇到了什么呢？我在这里快20天了，每一天都很煎熬。
But what happened to the people who happened to be stuck here when we came from all corners of the country? I have been here for nearly 20 days, and every day is a torment.
从我找到酒店安顿下来那天起，我就一直在找政府各个部门，一圈下来以后，我就很绝望，觉得好像武汉没人管我们这种外地滞留人。
From the day I found the hotel to settle down, I have been looking for various departments of the government, after a circle, I feel desperate, as if Wuhan has no one to care about our stranded people.
我也是在找部门、碰壁的过程中，才知道原来有很多人都因为这样那样的巧合被滞留在了这里。
I was also looking for a department, the process of bumping into the wall, just know that there are a lot of people because of this kind of coincidence is stuck here.
然后大家就组了个群，互相之间给予信心，抱团取暖，这是我在这些天里唯一感到有希望、温暖的地方。
Then they formed a group and gave each other confidence and a warm embrace, which was the only place where I felt hopeful and warm these days.
我们每个人似乎都走遍了自己能走的流程，结果都是心力交瘁，其实他们本可以协调好这个问题，而不是把我们踢来踢去。
Each of us seemed to go through the flow of things we could, only to be exhausted, but they could have coordinated the problem instead of kicking us around.
图/拾城武晓慧现在到了复工、开学的时间，大家就更焦虑。
Figure / pick-up Wu Xiaohui now to resume work, school time, we are more anxious.
封城，至少我是可以理解的，因为要照顾公共利益。
Sealing the city, at least, is understandable, because it takes care of the public interest.
但是政府应该有预案，比如说提醒外省人不要通过机场、高速路等经过武汉。
But the government should have a plan, for example, to remind the provinces not to pass through the airport, highways and so on Wuhan.
如果真的时间紧迫，来不及做这样的提醒，但是针对这样的人群，是不是应该也有一个预案呢？比如针对滞留在外地的武汉人会有后来的举措，但是对滞留在武汉的外地人，怎么就没有呢？这样的人口强流动时期，政府人员应该知道有很多滞留在这里的，一定是知道的。
If the time is pressing, it is too late to make such a reminder, but should there be a plan for such a crowd? For example, Wuhan people stranded in other places will have later action, but for those stranded in Wuhan, why not?
但是也没有任何消息，就算我们去向他们反映，他们还是说他们不知道，让我们自己解决。
But there is no news, even if we go to them, they still say they do not know, let us solve ourselves.
而我们完全就是求助无门。
And we're simply asking for help.
而且关于可以出城的时间，一直有不同的说法，到了一个时间说不行，要延期，再到一个时间，再延期。
And there have been different versions of the time it takes to get out of town. One time says no, one more time, one more time, another extension.
定了一个时间，我们就满怀着希望就等那一天。
When a time is fixed, we wait for that day with hope.
现在他们的预案定在了2月14号。
Now their plan is set for February 14th.
我和孩子两个人，这段时间经常失眠，她就躺在床上问怎么办呀。
My child and I, this time often insomnia, she lies in bed to ask how to do.
我要给她信心，就说这种情况让你成长，我就说，人生当中会有很多很多预料不到的事情。
I'm going to give her the confidence to say this is what makes you grow, and I'm going to say there's a lot of unexpected things going on in life.
现在不能出门，我们温馨和娱乐的时刻，就是给她讲她小时候的故事，我们两个人再回忆共同经历的一些事情。
Now can't go out, we warm and entertainment time, is to tell her the story of her childhood, we both recall some things together.
她没有经历过非典，我就给她讲非典时的事情。
She didn't experience SARS, so I told her about it.
就是给她一些精神上的东西，让她不要紧张，不要害怕。
It's about giving her something spiritually so she doesn't get nervous. Don't be afraid.
给政府部门打电话，有时也得必须本人过去一趟说明情况，比如要去社区。
Phone calls to government departments sometimes require a personal visit to explain the situation, such as to the community.
这是我在这里仅有的外出，也尽量错开人多的时间段。
This is the only time I'm out here, and I try to stagger the hours.
但就算是那样，也能看到路上有人不戴口罩，也有人随地吐痰，我是真害怕。
But even then, I was afraid to see people on the road wearing masks and spitting everywhere.
我有一次还去了省政府，大年初十那天，星期一。
I also once went to the provincial government, about the tenth day of the new year, Monday.
打了一圈电话以后，我想省政府话是（权力）最大的机构，而且他们的电话也查不到，我就去了一趟。
After a phone call, I thought the provincial government was the largest, and their calls were not available, so I went.
从我住的地方到那里走路半个小时。
It's half an hour's walk from where I live.
我去了以后，在门卫处，有工作人员出来，他们没听我的诉求，直接就劝返。
After I went, at the guard's office, some of the staff came out, they did not listen to my appeal, directly advised back.
我的想法是，他们可能不会解决，但是应该记录，记录以后上报，让有决策能力的人知道有我们这么一个群体，知道我们遇到的困题。
My idea is that they may not be able to solve it, but they should be recorded, recorded and reported, so that those who have the decision-making power know that we are a group and that we are in trouble.
但是这些都没有，直接让我回去。
But none of that. Just let me go back.
回来的路上，感觉很受挫，有点崩溃，我是满怀着希望去的。
On my way back, I felt frustrated and a little broken, and I went there full of hope.
结果是这样。
It turned out that way.
我也不敢跟孩子说，就说我们再看看别的地方吧。
I don't dare to tell the kids, just say we can look elsewhere.
但是我又去不了别的地方。
But I can't go anywhere else.
图/陈莉莉我总是想哭，但在我们租的小房子里，女儿又在，不能当着她的面哭。
Photo / Lily Chen I always want to cry, but in the small house we rent, my daughter is here and can't cry in front of her.
我就告诉她，现在只能尽我们所能地做好防护。
I told her that we had to do everything we could to protect her.
多洗手、勤洗手。
Wash your hands frequently and frequently.
我现在特别想回家，回到家，好好地拥抱我的父母。
I wanted so much to go home, go home and give my parents a good hug.
有人说像我们这种滞留在武汉的有30万人左右，这个数据不好统计。
Some people say that there are about 300,000 people like us staying in Wuhan, which is hard to count.
谁也不知道到底有多少人。
No one knows how many people there are.
应该快好了吧，这座城市应该快解封了吧。
Make your mind easy. The city should be unsealed soon.
希望所有人都平平安安的。
I hope everyone is safe.
作者 | 陈莉莉排版 | 阿丽菜南风窗新媒体出品____点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
By Riley Chen & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
滞留在武汉，我们想回家。
Stay in Wuhan, we want to go home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "滞留在武汉，我们想回家";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; stayed at Wuhan, and we want to return home and quot;;
var msg_desc = "这座城市应该快解封了吧";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; should the city be unsealed soon?;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
