与疫情赛跑的孕妇。
Pregnant women in a race against the epidemic.
黄靖芳。
Huang Jingfang.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
预产期快到了，摄影师殷超马上要迎接他和妻子的第一个小孩。
The due date was approaching and the photographer Yin Chao was about to greet him and his wife's first child.
原本一切顺利。
Everything went well.
孕期里的每次产检后，医生都会开心地告诉他们，各项指标很正常很标准。
After each visit during pregnancy, the doctor happily told them that the indicators were normal and standard.
他们知道，还在肚子里的宝宝很健康。
They know that babies who are still in their bellies are healthy.
直到疫情爆发，消息漫天，住在武汉蔡甸区的殷超心里“有点慌了”。
Until the outbreak of the outbreak, the news, living in Wuhan Cai Den Yin Chao heart "a bit panic."
眼看着区内的医院逐一成为发热门诊定点医院，他在微博写下求助的信息：“在这个难过的寒冬，我和我老婆的宝宝在这个2月即将要到预产期了……蔡甸的各大医院全部都被发热门诊征用了，包括妇幼。
Watching hospitals in the area become fever clinics, he wrote on his microblog asking for help: "In this sad winter, my wife's baby and I are going to be due in February... All the hospitals in Cai Den have been requisitioned by fever clinics, including women and children.
这让我们2月要生产的宝妈们如何是好啊”。
That's what we're going to do with the mothers we give birth to in February.
突如其来的疫情，将不安犹如病毒一样播撒。
Unexpected outbreaks of disease will spread like a virus.
各地严阵以待，封城封路，以杜绝感染为先，但同时，湖北一群数量庞大的准爸爸、准妈妈突然发现他们日常的需求成为了奢望——生子、保胎、拿药，都变得很难。
Locally, the city was closed to prevent infection, but at the same time, a huge number of expectant fathers and expectant mothers in Hubei Province suddenly realized that their daily needs had become too much to hope for - children, foetuses, medicines, etc.
恐慌，突如其来最近的一次产检，殷超很谨慎地做足了出门的准备。
Panic, the most recent inspection of the sudden, Yin Chao very careful to do enough preparation to go out.
除了口罩以外，他让妻子用上了家里唯一一双一次性手套，头上戴着洗澡用的塑料浴帽，衣服外还套了一件做菜用的罩衣。
In addition to a mask, he gave his wife the only disposable gloves in the house, a plastic bath hat for bathing, and a smock for cooking.
已经没有手套可以用的他，往手上套了两个塑料袋。
There were no gloves for him, so he put two plastic bags on his hand.
那天，他还带了一瓶自制的消毒水，是自己调好的比例，装在了平时喷花的喷壶里。
That day, he also took a bottle of homemade disinfectant water, is oneself adjusted proportion, put in the spray pot that usually blooms.
他们去到医院是早上8点30，因为发热门诊在另外的楼里，科室内外总共也没有几位求诊的人。
They went to the hospital at 8: 30 a.m., because the fever clinic was in another building and there were a total of few people seeking treatment both inside and outside the department.
殷超说，因为住在老家，乡里不缺粮食，缺的是防护用品。
Yin Chao said that because he lived in his hometown, there was no shortage of grain in the countryside.
最初，他没有想象到肺炎的事情是以这样的速度在发展，除夕前一天，他才想到要去买口罩。
At first he had no idea that pneumonia was developing at such a rate that the day before New Year's Eve he had thought of buying a mask.
1月23日，他买了一盒50个的口罩。
On January 23, he bought a box of 50 masks.
同时，蔡甸区的医院逐一在为疫情做调整，从最开始的一家医院，两家医院，到今天区内的所有医院都在接受发热病人。
Hospitals in Cai Den, meanwhile, are adjusting for the outbreak, from one hospital in the first place, two hospitals in the area, to all hospitals in today's area to receive febrile patients.
他发愁的是要选择在哪家医院生产。
What worried him was which hospital to give birth to.
离他们最近的是蔡甸人民医院，实际上医院就发热人群和其它就诊人群做了区分，前者从侧门进，后者则从正门进去，各自的通道不同，理论上已经减少了交叉感染的可能。
The nearest to them is the Cai Den People's Hospital, which in fact makes a distinction between people with fever, who enter through the side door, and other patients, who enter through the main entrance, each with a different passageway, which theoretically reduces the possibility of cross-infection.
但“还是会有一定的风险”，殷超担心。
But "there will be certain risks," Yin Chao worried.
妻子所惯常产检的医院将需要在2月生产的孕妇拉到了一个微信群里，群内有104人，也就是说在这片区域里至少有百名孕妇面临着几乎一样的情况。
The hospital where his wife routinely gave birth pulled pregnant women who needed to give birth in February into a small group of 104, meaning that at least 100 pregnant women in the area faced almost identical conditions.
有人的预产期提前了，在疫情来临之前生产，也有人为了更好的医疗条件，“冒险”到市区里面的医院生产。
Some have given birth earlier than expected, others have given birth before the outbreak, and others have "ventured" to hospitals in the city for better medical care.
殷超则不这么想，始终害怕被感染的风险太大。
Yin Chao does not think so, always afraid of the risk of infection is too large.
他研究过医生在群里发的不收治发热病人的武汉妇产医院名单，本来选定的是市区里的仁爱医院，可在那段时间他看着新闻里确诊人数的增加，“病情的增长量有点可怕”，变得犹豫了。
He studied the list of Wuhan maternity hospitals that doctors send out in groups to treat febrile patients. He had chosen the humane society hospital in the city, but during that time he watched the increase in the number of confirmed cases in the news and became hesitant.
况且此前的产检结果显示宝宝身体状况不错，他不觉得有必要冒险进到市区。
Moreover, the results of previous tests showed that the baby was in good health and he did not feel the need to venture into the city.
武汉孕妇们在微信群里交流信息（图源网络）眼下的状况，是很多人都意料不到的。
Wuhan pregnant women in the micro-letter group to exchange information (map source network) the current situation, many people did not expect.
几天前，殷超的爸爸出门买了一趟菜，超市10点营业，开门前已经有很多人在等着了。
A few days ago, Yin Chao's father went out to buy a dish. The supermarket was open at 10 o'clock.
一开门，“那就不能叫购物，叫抢东西”，爸爸转述说，拿好的东西得赶紧去结账，要是犹豫的话很快就被拿走了。
When he opened the door, "It's not shopping, it's robbing," Dad retorted. He had to hurry to pay the bill if he hesitated and was quickly taken away.
疫情，和紧接着的应对措施是措手不及的，往往在他们还没反应之时，一个浪花就拍过来了。
The outbreak, and the immediate response, were caught unawares, often before they could respond to a wave.
一直在协助武汉孕妇解决困难的志愿者海豚说，“孕妇群体的状况很复杂，不仅仅是有个产房生产的问题。
"The situation of the pregnant women's group is very complicated, and it's not just a matter of giving birth in a maternity ward," said dolphin volunteers who have been helping Wuhan pregnant women cope.
”她说得没错，在殷超一家的情况以外，还有各种状况。
She is right that beyond the Yin Chao family, there are other situations.
1月22日，徐芯从武汉回到黄冈的公婆家，因为其时疫情的消息已经扩散，回来后她和老公很自觉地进行监测，每天都测量体温，一周后她发现自己的体温偏高，“我也很害怕是（感染了）干嘛的，结果用试纸一测就释怀了”，原来她怀孕了。
On January 22, Xu returned to her mother-in-law's house in Huanggang from Wuhan because the news of the outbreak had spread. When she and her husband came home to check their temperature every day, she found that her temperature was high.
2月3日，合肥市第二人民医院，刚刚结束大夜班的方季在展示家中智能摄像机拍摄的孩子画面每个新生命的出现，都是一个家庭的希望。
February 3, Hefei Second People's Hospital, just finished the night shift in the show home of the children's video camera shot every new life of the emergence of a family hope.
怀孕的消息让徐芯倍感欣慰，这是她努力备胎数月的结果，但当她有意出门看医生时，就发现黄冈的情况一日千里。
Xu was heartened by the news of her pregnancy, which was the result of months of trying to prepare for her pregnancy, but when she wanted to go out to see a doctor, she found out that the situation in Huanggang was thousands of miles.
2月1日，黄冈宣布实行“最严”出行管控，数据显示黄冈的确诊病例在不断上升，其严重程度，远超出黄冈人的意料之外。
On Feb. 1, Huang Gang announced "maximum" travel controls, and data showed that confirmed cases were on the rise in Huanggang, far more serious than the Huanggang people had expected.
徐芯小心翼翼，是因为怀上孩子不容易，那是她的第二次希望。
Xu is careful because it is not easy to conceive a child, which is her second hope.
“一切都是未知”徐芯今年31岁，自从发现怀孕后，她就和医生保持着沟通，原本在怀孕后她马上要去抽血、查孕三项，了解自己的激素水平，焦急的是，“医生已经告诉我要吃什么药了，但我手上没有这些药”。
"Everything is unknown" Xu, 31, has been talking to her doctor since she discovered she was pregnant. She was about to go for three blood tests and a pregnancy test to find out about her hormone levels.
吃药，不是因为她的抵抗力不好，相反，“我们这种人是属于平时看起来身体特别好，抵抗力特别好的”，但是一旦进入妊娠期，体内的某种抗体就会出来工作，将胚胎当作敌人发动攻击。
The drug is taken not because of her poor resistance, but because "people like us are exceptionally healthy and resistant to disease," but once in gestation, some antibody in the body comes out and attacks the embryo as an enemy.
“好心办坏事”的免疫系统将胚胎扼杀在子宫内，让“怀孕”这件事变得具有不确定性。
The "good does evil" immune system stifles the embryo in the womb, making the "pregnancy" uncertain.
2019年2月，第一次怀上宝宝的徐芯经历了胎停。
In February 2019, the first pregnancy of the Xu core of the baby experienced a tire stop.
她是在后来的检查中才知道自己的身体不对劲，“才知道有很多的人都是这样，怀了第一个是这样，第二个也还是”，她说自己没有办法像别人那样轻松地怀上宝宝，即使进入了孕期还需要时刻担心宝宝，一刻都不敢放松。
"Only after checking later did she realize that something was wrong with her." She realized that many people are like this, the first one is so, the second is still. "She said she had no way of conceiving her baby as easily as anyone else, and even in pregnancy she had to worry about her baby for a moment.
“一切都是未知”，在武汉江岸区居住的小猫这样说，她所居住的地方，离疑似的病毒发源地华南海鲜市场只有五公里。
"Everything is unknown," said the kitten, who lives in Wuhan, a city only five kilometers from the suspected South China seafood market where the virus originated.
封城以后，她已经不再出门，干粮和肉菜是妈妈和婆婆在大年三十的时候拿过来的，足够他们吃一段时间。
After the closure of the city, she no longer went out, dry grain and meat dishes were mother and mother-in-law in the mid-thirties, enough to eat them for a while.
没有被感染是幸运，但是这份幸运没有让她安心。
It was lucky not to be infected, but luck did not reassure her.
小猫已经怀孕21周，她说疫情发生以来“没有一个孕妇心情是好的”，无不是迷茫、害怕、压抑交杂。
Kitten has been pregnant for 21 weeks, she said that since the outbreak of "no pregnant women are in a good mood," all confused, afraid, suppressed mixed.
小猫算是高危孕妇，她已经35岁了，第一次妊娠胎位不合适，医生告诉她这会导致宫外孕，她不得不放弃；第二次是2018年5月，宝宝已经27周，同样经历了胎停。
The kitten, a high-risk pregnant woman, was 35, had her first pregnancy misplaced and doctors told her it would lead to an ectopic pregnancy, which she had to give up. The second was in May 2018, 27 weeks after the baby also had a stillbirth.
这是她的第三次妊娠，她在今年才得知自己患上的是非典型抗磷脂综合征，需要不断用药控制身体的情况。
It was her third pregnancy and she learned this year that she had atypical anti-phospholipid syndrome that required constant medication to control her body.
否则血液会不断形成细小的血栓，影响到胎儿的营养输送，最后危及其存活。
Otherwise, the blood will continue to form small thrombosis, affect the fetal nutrition transmission, and finally endanger its survival.
小猫始终想不明白自己为什么会得了这样的病，她认为只能归咎于自己的生活习惯不好，熬夜，饮食不健康，不爱吃蔬菜，也可能跟心情也有关系。
She thinks it can only be attributed to her bad habits, stay up late, eat unhealthy diet, do not like vegetables, may also be related to the mood.
小猫需要注射的药物她和徐芯的情况类似，但更严重一点。
The kitten needs to be injected with a drug similar to Xu's, but a little more serious.
小猫要在怀上的第一天就开始打低分子肝素，这是一种需要自己打在肚皮上的注射剂，一天两针，搭配阿司匹林一起成为每天必备的药物。
The kitten starts low-molecular-weight heparin on the first day of conception, a two-shot daily dose of the drug that needs to be injected into your stomach, along with aspirin.
过年前，她凭借处方在医疗网站上囤了不少，但也只足够她再多用十几天，这种处方药得让医生开，而省妇幼医院的门诊已经停了。
She received a prescription from a medical website just a few days before the New Year, but only enough for a few more days. The prescription had to be prescribed by a doctor, and the outpatient clinic at the provincial mother and child hospital had stopped.
给自己打针不容易，小猫说第一次打的时候会害怕，她都是跟着视频慢慢学。
It was not easy to give her an injection. The kitten said she was afraid the first time she hit. She learned slowly with the video.
为了防止过敏，她在最初跑医院很勤快，隔两三天就去查一次血，看看自己的指标是不是还正常。
In order to prevent allergies, she ran the hospital very hard at the beginning, every two or three days to check blood, to see if their indicators are still normal.
群里有孕妇因储备不足，只能将一天两针的规定频率改为一天一针，但这样很危险。
Pregnant women in the group had to change the prescribed frequency of two shots a day to one shot a day because of insufficient reserves, but this was dangerous.
减少药量的话，血液可能随时会回到凝固的状态，情况变得不确定。
With less medication, the blood may return to a frozen state at any time, and the situation becomes uncertain.
目前的情况，小猫说不是要求谁“来特别照顾的问题”，只希望有一个“安全的地方”来接纳她们，让她们能安心产检，把宝宝生下来。
In the current situation, the kitten says it is not asking who "will take special care of the matter," but only wants a "safe place" to receive them so they can safely have a checkup and give birth.
各个渠道的消息很多，小猫也听说省妇幼里开有产科的急诊，可是她对更详细的情况一无所知：“别人是不是只接待很紧急的孕妇，接不接待你，这个都不好说”。
There is a lot of information from various sources, and kittens have heard about obstetric emergencies in provincial mothers and children, but she knows nothing about this in more detail: "It's hard to say if someone is only dealing with an urgent pregnant woman and not receiving you."
因为多次注射，肚皮已经出现了青紫色的瘢痕在这时，孕妇之间的互助变得重要，有药物余裕的孕妇都会在群里提供信息，互相对接，至于如何送达，距离较远的用还在营业的快递，同城的就开车送到一个地方对接者再去拿。
As a result of multiple injections, the belly has become scarred with cyan-purple. At this point, mutual help between pregnant women becomes important. Pregnant women with ample supplies of medicine will provide information to each other in the group.
这种零散、原始的互助是在跟疫情赛跑，要是目前紧急的情况持续下去，大家都在暗暗担心，互助能不能跑得赢？一位经验比较丰富的群友在群里建议说，“最近疫情严峻，备孕推迟考虑。
This patchwork, primitive form of mutual aid is racing against the epidemic, and if the current emergency continues, people are secretly worried that mutual help will win, suggests a more experienced group of friends in the group.
”尝试，再尝试徐芯经历了三个月的备胎过程，那段时间里她平日上班，周末跑去医院。
"Trying, Xu went through a three-month spare tire preparation process, during which she went to work on weekdays and went to the hospital on weekends.
医院人多，处处都要排队，她经常从“早上7点待到晚上7点”，等待医生为她开中药，有时还会要针灸。
The hospital was crowded with people queuing up everywhere, and she often stayed from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., waiting for doctors to prescribe traditional Chinese medicine and sometimes acupuncture.
医生开的药会有副作用，徐芯怕上火，偏偏喝下去药以后整个人很热气，还会头疼，她不得不忍着喝掉，回想起来她忍不住感慨，“就是想生个孩子，为什么会这么难呢？”在孕妇群内，保胎是一个动词，如果有人问现在xx医院还能保胎吗？就是在问现在还能否有医生能提供这一系列的服务，“保胎”意味着随时和医生联系，让医生为你的身体“做调整”，也就是对身体做检测，直到肚里的宝宝顺利出生。
The doctor prescribed the medicine will have side effects, Xu Xin afraid of the fire, just drank the medicine after the whole person is very hot, but also headache, she had to endure drinking, can not help but think back, "If you want to have a baby, why is it so difficult?"
她现在的心情，小猫很清楚，她感慨道：“一路走来都很艰难，现在变得更难了。
Her mood, the kitten is very clear, she said: "The road has been very difficult, now becomes more difficult.
”　妻子的预产期越来越近了。
The wife's due date was drawing nearer.
殷超已经准备好了住院所应该带的东西，一件件备好，只要有突发的情况，拉起箱子就能走了。
Yin Chao was ready to take in the hospital, ready one by one, as soon as there was a sudden situation, pull up the box can go.
几经考虑，他最后还是选择了离家最近的医院。
After much thought, he finally chose the hospital closest to his home.
在这个特殊时期里，每个人都自觉而克制，他对《南风窗》记者说，“我们这样的情况已经算是相对比较好，你们也多关注那些条件更加苛刻的地方”。
At this particular time, everyone was conscious and restrained, he told Window South. "We've got a relatively good situation like this, and you're paying more attention to what's more demanding."
武汉作为疫情最中心的地区，一方面病毒来势汹汹，另一方面也仍然不失为集中了省内最多医疗资源的高地。
Wuhan as the center of the epidemic, on the one hand, the virus is aggressive, on the other hand, is still the province's largest concentration of medical resources.
其周边地区的医疗情况，远比不上武汉。
The medical conditions in its surrounding areas are far inferior to those in Wuhan.
在黄冈的徐芯已经联系到愿意出让药物的朋友，这是她所能想到解决目前困境的最好办法。
Xugong in Huanggang has contacted friends willing to give medicine, which is the best way she can find a solution to the current predicament.
但现实是，尽管两方都在黄冈，没有快递，不能通车，药物始终无法传递。
But the reality is that even though both sides are in Huanggang, there is no express delivery, no car, and no drugs can be delivered.
接着，徐芯为此想了很多办法，几经曲折。
Afterwards, Xu Ching thought of a lot of ways, after many twists and turns.
2月3日，经过志愿者的提醒，她想到可以通过邮寄至县城红十字会的方式运送，但是红十字会工作人员告诉她，如果物品由他们签收，那将直接交由其统一调配，也就是说她几乎不可能再拿到药了。
On 3 February, following a reminder from volunteers, she thought that it could be delivered by mail to the Red Cross in the county, but Red Cross staff told her that if they signed up the items, they would hand them over directly to them, meaning that she would have little chance of getting the medicine.
此路不通，她只能选择次优方案。
This way, she had to choose a sub-optimal solution.
她电话咨询了县人民医院，医院的药不全，只有两三种，比如环孢素就没有。
She called the county people's hospital, which had only two or three drugs, such as cyclosporine.
但是，她最终决定让丈夫“冒险”到医院走一趟。
But she finally decided to let her husband "risk" going to the hospital.
丈夫开车从家里出发，在从村子往镇里的出入口被拦了下来，工作人员告知他因出行管控措施，车辆无法通行。
The husband drove from his home and was stopped at the entrance to the town from the village, who informed him that the vehicle was impassable because of movement control measures.
于是丈夫将车停到一边，直接选择走路到达。
So the husband parked the car to one side and walked straight to it.
不久也被截回。
He was also returned shortly thereafter.
他再次被告知，在这段时间想通行只能办通行证，但符合办理的条件通常只有两项，一是受感染的病人，二是马上要生产的孕妇才可以。
He was again told that he could only obtain a permit to travel during this period, but that only two conditions were normally met, one for an infected patient and the other for a pregnant woman who was about to give birth.
他们打给交警，又打给县的防疫指挥部，讲了拿药的迫切性，在数次觉得自己像只皮球一样被踢来踢去后，通行证还是没有办到。
They called the traffic police, called the county anti-epidemic command, told the urgent need to get drugs, in several times feel like a ball kicked around, the pass was not done.
一件平时用十分钟就能完成的事情，在这个紧急时期举步维艰。
A thing that normally takes ten minutes to accomplish is difficult in this emergency.
这段拿药的尝试，暂时以失败告终。
The attempt to get the medicine ended in temporary failure.
“控制疫情我们能理解，但是有紧急需求的人怎么办呢，有没有其他的途径呢？”，徐芯哭了，“我已经经历了5天的碰壁，心里面又很着急，你知道吧？”因为看新闻太多，小猫出现了网上所传播的“应激反应”，从一睁开眼到闭眼都是关于新型冠状病毒的新闻，睡眠变得不好，还会做噩梦。
"We can understand the epidemic, but what about people with urgent needs?" Xu cried. "I've been through five days and I'm worried, you know?" Because of the news, kittens appear on the Internet about the new coronavirus, sleep poorly and have nightmares.
这种情况相当普遍，殷超回忆，疫情进展迅速的阶段，那几天全家都在盯着电视看，但到了最近，看新闻的频率已经变得很低，只能是每天睡觉前看一眼，其余时间都尽量找电视剧来看，“不能让自己每天都处在这种数字的笼罩之下，感觉很压抑。
It's quite common, Yin Chao recalls, the family was staring at the TV for a few days, but lately the frequency of watching the news has become so low that you have to take a look at it every night before going to bed and try to watch TV shows the rest of the time.
打开微博，都是一些让人很焦虑的事情。
Open microblogging, are a few things that make people very anxious.
”疫情之下，他感觉无能为力，“这段时间能把自己的家人照顾好就是最大限度了”。
He felt powerless in the face of the epidemic, saying "it was the best time to take care of his family."
有人问过小猫，你们在孕妇群里怎样相互打气，排解焦虑情绪？她回答说：“真的没有办法排解，因为我们买不到药，买不到针，如果是正常的孕妇还好，像我们这样一类人随时面临着胎停。
Someone asked the kittens how they could cheer each other up and relieve their anxietyThere really is no way out because we can't get medicine, we can't buy needles, and if it's normal pregnant women, people like us have a flat tire all the time.
”当然，也是有好消息传来的。
Of course, there was good news.
小猫有一位朋友，需要一直打孕激素黄体酮，之前在打的诊所都关门了，她在抖音上求助了河北生殖医院的院长，院长马上给她邮寄了黄体酮的替代药物雪诺酮，“院长说她不在武汉一线，但能帮到忙感到十分欣慰。
The cat had a friend who needed progesterone all the time. The clinic she was taking was closed. She asked the director of Hebei Reproductive Hospital for help. The dean immediately mailed her a substitute for progesterone, Shenoketone.
”小猫听后，觉得很感动。
"The kitten heard this and was very moved.
2月6日，顺丰快递在黄冈当地重启了小物件个人寄送服务，徐芯终于收到了朋友从武汉寄给她的所有药物。
On February 6, Shunfeng express in Huanggang local restart of small items personal delivery services, Xu finally received from friends sent to her from Wuhan all drugs.
前一天，殷超的女儿顺利出生，他兴奋地发来消息：“我老婆早上8：50刚诞生我们的宝宝”。
The day before, Yin Chao's daughter was born smoothly, he was excited to send the message: "My wife gave birth to our baby at 8: 50 in the morning."
所有在等待和焦虑中的孕妇，无不期望拥有这样的结局。
All pregnant women in waiting and anxious situations expect this to happen.
（文中徐芯、小猫为化名）作者 | 南风窗高级记者 黄靖芳编辑| 李少威排版 | STAN图片 | 部分来源于网络南风窗新媒体出品_____猜你还想看_围观“我哭了，只求一张病床”故事活着，在武汉热文小胖子李文亮点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更远。
The South Window Senior Reporter AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
与疫情赛跑的孕妇。
Pregnant women in a race against the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "与疫情赛跑的孕妇";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with pregnant women racing the epidemic;
var msg_desc = "生子、保胎、拿药，都成为了难题";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; having children, having a baby, or getting medicine, all AT & quot; & quot;
title: '“我哭了，只求一张病床”',。
"I cried and asked for only one bed" and & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '活着，在武汉',。
A: Living at & at Wuhan & apos;.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '小胖子李文亮',。
Little fat Li Wenliang & apos;.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
