“我哭了，只求一张病床”。
"I cried and asked for a bed."
何承波。
He Chengbo.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
蔡婷说：“大家都荒谬到这个程度了。
"Everyone is ridiculous to this degree," Cai said.
”2月5日下午，湖北省人民医院拥挤的门诊部，蔡婷排了3个小时的队。
On the afternoon of February 5, Cai Tingling queued for three hours at the crowded outpatient department of Hubei People's Hospital.
这家医院昨天做了1500份新型冠状病毒的核酸检测，43岁的蔡婷和母亲的样本，也在其中。
The hospital yesterday tested 1,500 copies of a new coronavirus, including samples from Cai Ting, 43, and her mother.
现在，蔡婷全部心思都在这上面，一心盼着它是阳性。
Now, all Cai Ting's heart is in this above, the whole hope is that it is positive.
“非常期待自己得的是新冠肺炎，盼着证明自己得病了，就怕它出个阴性的结果。
"I'm really looking forward to my new crown pneumonia, hoping to prove that I'm ill, for fear of a negative result.
”几个小时后，蔡婷把诊断结果发给我：母亲，单阳，离确诊还差一个阳性指标。
A few hours later, Cai Ting sent me the results: 'Mother, Danyang, one positive indicator short of the diagnosis.
依然是高度疑似。
Still highly suspicious.
而她自己的两项指标，却均为阴性。
But her own two indicators, both negative.
常理来看，这或许不失为一个好结果。
Common sense suggests that this might be a good result.
但一向乐观豁达的蔡婷告诉我，她当时崩溃了，“在医院里爆哭了一场”，但哭得抽不上气来，她知道，自己肺部明显有问题了。
But Tsai Ting, always an optimist, told me that she had collapsed, "in the hospital burst into tears", but could not breathe, she knew that her lungs were clearly faulty.
而母亲已经无法行动，得由她推着轮椅，在寸步难行的武汉，来回奔波。
The mother has been unable to move, she had to push the wheelchair, in the hard-to-do Wuhan, back and forth.
眼下这情形，再做一次复查，奔命不说，还无法预计何时能得到救治。
At the moment, this situation, a review, do not say, can not predict when the treatment will be.
比起战胜疾病，武汉病人要战胜的对手实在太多了。
Wuhan patients have far too many competitors to defeat than they do to defeat disease.
战斗状态早在1月22日，蔡婷就在朋友圈发出了求助信息。
As early as January 22, Cai Ting in the circle of friends sent out a help message.
蔡婷的小姨在湖北省人民医院治疗妇科肿瘤时，出现了发热迹象，一开始院方发热门诊不接收，又无法提供转院协助，只要求出院。
Cai Ting's little aunt in Hubei Province People's Hospital treatment of gynaecological tumors, there were signs of fever, the hospital fever clinic did not accept, and could not provide hospital transfer assistance, only to be discharged.
对化疗病人至关重要的PICC也没有护士敢做了。
No nurse dares to do the PICC, which is vital for patients undergoing chemotherapy.
小姨的检查结果显示，各项指标高度疑似新冠肺炎，第二天被送进了隔离病房，随后转至武汉第九人民医院。
Aunt's examination showed that the indicators are highly suspected of pneumonia, the next day was sent to the isolation ward, and then transferred to Wuhan Ninth People's Hospital.
而与此同时，贴身照顾小姨半个多月的蔡婷，也发起了高烧，一路飙升至39°以上。
At the same time, close care of auntie Cai Ting, also launched a high fever, all the way up to 39 °.
此时，整个湖北的疫情已经扩散，武汉医疗资源紧缺起来。
At this time, the entire Hubei epidemic has spread, Wuhan medical resources become scarce.
她拨打120，但被告知需要自行联系医院，急救中心才能派车。
She dialed 120, but was told she needed to contact the hospital herself before the emergency centre could send a car.
蔡婷想到了小姨的情况，自己作为密切接触者，要求进入武汉九院做检查。
Cai Ting thought of the situation of auntie, himself as close contacts, request to enter Wuhan nine hospital for inspection.
院方商量后，同意了她的请求，1月23日这天，急救车从中午排到晚上，终于在晚上9点钟把她送至九院。
After consultation, the hospital agreed to her request, January 23, the ambulance from noon to night, finally at 9 p.m. to send her to the ninth hospital.
一夜折腾，她凌晨5点才走出医院大门，得到的结果是，CT和血常规正常，但不排除潜伏期。
After a night out of the hospital gate at 5 a.m., the result was that CT and blood routines were normal, but the incubation period was not excluded.
蔡婷第一次发热进医院检查此后多日里，蔡婷进入战斗状态。
Cai Ting first fever into the hospital check-up days later, Cai Ting into the state of combat.
她自己和母亲均出现反复发烧，母亲越来越虚弱，几乎不能走路了。
Both she and her mother developed recurrent fever, and her mother became so weak that she could hardly walk.
2月1日凌晨5点，烧到38.5°的蔡婷，拨打了120。
February 1 at 5 a.m., burning to 38.5 ° Cai Ting, dial 120.
20分钟后，车来了。
Twenty minutes later, the bus came.
但工作人员告诉她们，没来联系好医院和床位，病人没法送。
But the staff told them that the patients could not be delivered without proper contact with the hospital and the beds.
她只好悻然下了车。
She got out of the car angrily.
2月2日，蔡婷的CT检查报告单上，已经出现了新冠肺炎的诊断意见。
On February 2, Cai Ting's CT examination report card, has appeared the new crown pneumonia diagnosis opinion.
此时，妈妈的CT结果也显示，肺部已经花白。
At this point, the mother's CT results also show that the lung has been graying.
诊断意见是双肺感染，考虑新冠肺炎。
The diagnosis is bilateral lung infection, consider new crown pneumonia.
医生同情地告诉她，过两天再看有没有床，已经一个星期没有收过新病人了。
The doctor told her sympathetically that there would be no beds for another two days, and no new patients had been admitted in a week.
而此时，母亲已经不能走路，无法久站，她多方求助，才买到一把轮椅。
At this time, the mother has been unable to walk, unable to stand, she asked for help, just bought a wheelchair.
蔡婷母亲的住院单我跟她约采访，屡屡被各种突发意外打乱，一直未能进行，我只能看着她朋友圈里宣布自己如何解决一个个“超级不可能任务”。
Cai Ting's mother's hospitalization order I interviewed her, repeatedly by a variety of unexpected interruptions, has not been able to proceed, I can only see her friends announced how to solve their "super-impossible tasks."
2月3日傍晚，蔡婷在家中被一股冰凉的感觉唤醒，她发现自己的身体扑在地上，脸上浮肿，全是血。
On the evening of February 3, Cai Ting was awakened from her home by a cold sensation. She found her body on the ground, her face swollen and covered with blood.
尿失禁，裤子也弄湿了。
I'm pissed and my pants are wet.
她意识到是自己晕倒了，但不知道晕倒了多久。
She realized that she had fainted, but did not know how long she had fainted.
她拨打了求救电话，却发不出声。
She called for help but couldn't make a sound.
好在，熟人和陌生的网友都在帮她联系了社区的车队。
Fortunately, acquaintances and strangers alike were helping her contact the community motorcade.
在武汉第三医院光谷院区，蔡婷站立不住，冷汗直冒，感觉又要休克了。
Wuhan Third Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, Cai Ting can not stand, cold sweat straight out, feel like shock.
大概是所有医疗资源和精力都用于发热，使得这里连外伤都无法处理，而抢救都需要排队。
Probably all the medical resources and energy went into the fever, making it impossible to deal with the trauma here, and the rescue had to wait in line.
在抢救室门口，她听见一片巨大的安静中传来一阵悲切的哭声，而抢救室里，静得可以听见那些微弱的呼吸。
At the door of the emergency room, she heard a mournful cry in a great silence, and in the rescue room the faint breaths could be heard.
武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房医生告诉她，这次休克，可能是高热引起，但没有床位，而且已经是深夜十一点，医院整体消毒，打针还需要再等几个小时，交了钱的蔡婷，也只好放弃了。
Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, the intensive care unit doctors told her that the shock, which may be caused by high fever, but no beds, and it was already 11: 00 midnight, the hospital overall disinfection, needles will have to wait a few hours, paid Cai Ting, had to give up.
只有一个办法了，做核酸检测确诊。
There's only one way to do a nucleic acid test.
原本她打算第二天推着轮椅带母亲去，但她现在连哭的力气都没有了。
She had planned to take her mother in a wheelchair the next day, but now she had no strength to cry.
2月4日，几经周折，她带着母亲去省人民医院做了核酸检测，得到一份看似喜人的结果，却令她“崩溃”了。
On February 4, after much ado, she took her mother to the provincial People's Hospital for a nucleic acid test, which produced a seemingly encouraging result, but she "collapsed."
通往病房的唯一凭证过去十多天来，核酸检测仍是大量求助者通往病房的唯一凭证，没有经过核酸检测确诊的病人，只能等。
For more than a decade now, nucleic acid testing has been the only evidence available to a large number of sufferers to the ward. Patients who have not been diagnosed by a nucleic acid test will have to wait.
申请核酸检测，一度是耗时耗力的持久战。
Applying for nucleic acid testing was a time-consuming and labour-consuming protracted war.
截止2月7日，微博上的“肺炎患者”超话下，就有超过1100条求助信息，其中大多数均与核酸检测相关。
As of February 7, there were more than 1,100 calls for help from "pneumonia sufferers" on Weibo, most of them related to nucleic acid testing.
20岁女孩陈琦是其中之一，她刚学会开电瓶车，载着咳嗽不止的父亲，跑遍了所有医院，靠着打针，维持着生命。
One of them is Chen Qi, a 20-year-old girl who has just learned to drive a bottle car, carrying her cough-ridden father, and runs through all the hospitals, relying on injections to keep her alive.
父亲从大年三十开始出现发热症状，最近三天，父亲开始咳血，已经喘不过气了，高烧一度超过40度。
My father began to have febrile symptoms in his late thirties. In the last three days, he began coughing up blood and was out of breath, with a fever exceeding 40 degrees.
他们在武汉七院排到了核酸检测的名额，但要三天后才能检测，四天后才有结果。
They reached the nucleic acid test in Wuhan, but it will take three days before the test results are available four days later.
陈琦和家人慌张了，感觉父亲就要活不过明天了，根本等不起。
Chen Qi and his family panic, feel that the father will not survive tomorrow, can not afford to wait.
武汉实施网格化管理，发热病人上报社区，层层协调，并派送到对口的指定医院就诊。
Wuhan implementation grid management, fever patients reported to the community, layer upon layer coordination, and sent to the corresponding designated hospitals.
但社区的回复大多是，“耐心等待”。
But most of the community's response has been "wait and see."
到了2月2日，父亲眼看不行了，陈琦的姐姐和妈妈在社区和街道闹了一回，街道才肯派车送他们去江对岸的协和医院做核酸检测。
On February 2, when his father couldnt stand it, Chen Qi's sister and his mother made a scene in the community and the street, and the street sent them to Concorde Hospital across the river for a nucleic acid test.
“他们给我爸弄来了一趟辆救援车，但我爸是感染者，一家人只能坐在车厢外面，像偷渡一样。
"They got my dad a recovery car, but my dad was infected and the family had to sit outside the car like a stowaway.
”武汉火神山医院，医护人员将患者送入病房陈琦的父亲一直以来没得过什么病，不抽烟也不喝酒，是家里唯一的顶梁柱，有着天不怕地不怕的性格。
Wuhan Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital, hospital staff sent patients to the ward Chen Qi's father has never had any illness, neither smoking nor drinking, is the only pillar of the family, has a fearless character.
大年初一开始呕吐时，他才勉强戴上了口罩。
He barely managed to put on a mask when he started vomiting on New Year's Day.
但这场病似乎打倒了他，情绪也变得不稳定了，更不愿去回忆自己如何染上病毒。
But the illness seems to have knocked him down, making him emotionally unstable and reluctant to recall how he contracted the virus.
现在，距离检查完已经过了48个小时，通知没能等来，一家人有点小失落。
Now, 48 hours after the inspection, the notice failed to come and the family was a little lost.
陈琦说：“现在举全国之力，都在救治新冠肺炎，如果我爸得的不是这种病，这个节骨眼上，那就没人管了。
Chen Qi said: "Now the national strength, are treating the new crown pneumonia, if my father did not have this disease, this point in time, it is neglected.
那我爸就没救了？”疾控中心的电话最终在2月4日这天打过来了，告知父亲确诊，并赶快上报。
So my father couldn't be saved? "CDC's call finally arrived on February 4, informing him of the diagnosis and reporting it immediately.
陈琦这才稍微宽心：有救了。
Chen Qi this just a little relieved: Saved.
比起多数患者核酸检测的曲折，徐敏的婆婆陈慧要幸运得多。
Xu's mother-in-law Chen Huihui is much luckier than most patients with twists and turns in nucleic acid testing.
徐敏的婆婆2月4日日间做了第二次CT检查，肺部已经完全磨玻璃化了，医生停了婆婆的莫西沙星注射，并说，已经没用了，只有住院打球蛋白。
Xu Min's mother-in-law had a second CT scan on Feb. 4 and her lungs were completely vitrified. Doctors stopped her mother-in-law's injection of moxifloxacin and said it was useless.
这就陷入了一个怪圈：只有住院部才有开球蛋白的权限，而住院部说，只有疫情指挥部才能调配床位，而要拿到疫情指挥部调配的床位，只有通过社区上报。
This leads to a vicious circle: only the inpatient department has the right to prescribe globulin, while the inpatient department says that only the outbreak command can deploy beds, while beds allocated by the outbreak command can only be reported through the community.
但社区告诉他们，请耐心等待。
But the community told them to be patient.
绝望的情绪弥漫开。
Despair filled the air.
视频里，一开始陈慧还能跟孙子说笑，最近越来越萎靡。
In the video, at first Chen Hui was able to talk and laugh with her grandson.
婆婆看得懂肺片，口里叨着“信命了”，不想再跑了。
Mother-in-law could read the lung slice, and said, "Believe it or not," she didn't want to run any more.
无奈之下，一家人只得自己买球蛋白。
In desperation, the family had to buy their own globulin.
2月4日晚上去普仁医院，试着看看能否打自己带的免疫球蛋白，答案是他们不出所料的：不能打。
On the evening of February 4, they went to Puren Hospital to see if they could beat the immunoglobulin they had brought with them.
意外的是，医生告知，这天下午刚到了80个试剂盒子，临时增加的。
Surprisingly, the doctor told me that only 80 reagent boxes, temporarily added, had arrived that afternoon.
2月2日，武汉市已经下达新的政策，要求对新冠肺炎确诊、疑似、发热及密切接触者“四类人员”集中收治和隔离。
On February 2, Wuhan city has issued a new policy, requiring the diagnosis, suspected, fever and close contacts of the "four categories of people" concentrated treatment and isolation.
第二天，社区工作人员给她发来信息，问她婆婆去不去隔离，但看到隔离不提供医治条件，她就放弃了，心里也害怕起来。
The next day, the community workers sent her a message asking her mother-in-law whether to go to seclusion, but when she saw that isolation did not provide medical treatment, she gave up and became frightened.
婆婆需要的是抢救，需要打球蛋白。
What her mother-in-law needs is resuscitation and globulin.
现在希望寄托于那张核酸检测结果了。
Now we're counting on that nucleic acid test.
令人焦急的是，48小时过去了，检测结果还不见出来。
Worryingly, 48 hours later, the test results were not available.
而此刻对于病人来说，一分一秒，都是生死之间。
But for the patient at this moment, every minute is between life and death.
等得到的、等不到的2月4日，父亲在电话里告诉了郝明奶奶的核酸检测结果。
As soon as he got it, he told Grandma Hao Ming's nucleic acid test on the phone on Feb. 4.
听到“阴性”这个词，郝明心里一凉：完了，全完了。
Hearing the word "feminine", Hao Ming felt a chill: It was all over, it was all over.
奶奶78岁，做了三年的透析，12月份开始发烧，诊断出肺炎。
Grandma, 78, had dialysis for three years and developed a fever and pneumonia in December.
感染未见好，但好在烧退了，直到武汉新病毒疫情爆发，再去中南医院做CT时，肺部已经严重感染。
The infection was not good, but the fever subsided, until Wuhan new virus outbreak, and then go to the South Central Hospital CT, the lung has been seriously infected.
医生怀疑是新型冠状病毒，让他们回家等通知，并停了奶奶的透析。
Doctors suspected it was a new coronavirus, told them to go home and stopped Grandma's dialysis.
2月4日本该进行的透析没有做成，奶奶身体状态急速恶化。
The dialysis that Japan was supposed to undergo on February 4 did not take place and Grandma's health deteriorated rapidly.
他们找到梨园医院，做了核酸检测，结果是阴性。
They went to pear orchard hospital, did nucleic acid test, the result is negative.
拿着这份报告，郝明和家人再次回到中南医院，以图证明奶奶没有新型冠状病毒的传染性，可以继续做透析。
With the report, Hao and his family returned to the hospital to prove that Grandma was not infected with the new coronavirus and could continue dialysis.
不过，医生断定这就是新冠肺炎，核酸检测准确率并不高，要求去指定的武汉市第七医院重新检测。
However, the doctor decided that this is the new crown pneumonia, nucleic acid test accuracy is not high, asked to the designated Wuhan City VII Hospital re-test.
就在此时，家中的奶奶陷入了休克，对声音和晃动失去了反应，人也无法进食，更无法去做核酸复查。
At this point, the grandmother of the family fell into shock and lost her ability to respond to sounds and shaking, or to eat or have nucleic acid reviewed.
他们打了三次120，均被告知需要先联系到愿意收治的医院，否则无法派车。
On three occasions, they were informed that they needed to contact the hospital willing to be admitted, otherwise they could not send a car.
但普通医院不敢收治，武汉四家指定医院对发热透析病人，均需要核酸检测确诊才能收治。
But the general hospital dare not accept treatment, Wuhan four designated hospitals to febrile dialysis patients, all need nucleic acid test to confirm the admission.
“武汉绝大部分医疗资源和床位，都集中用于新冠肺炎，如果是阴性，基本上没人会搭理。
"Wuhan, where the vast majority of medical resources and beds are concentrated, is used for pneumonia, and if it is negative, it will be largely ignored.
”郝明的奶奶，就这样一直躺在家中。
"Hao Ming's grandmother stayed at home all the time.
一天前的2月5日下午，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，规定将CT影像结果作为临床诊断病例的诊断标准（只限于湖北省内），这就意味着，核酸检测这一唯一标准，就此终结了。
One day ago, on the afternoon of February 5, the National Fitness and Health Commission announced the "Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia (Trial Version 5)," which required CT images to be used as diagnostic criteria for clinical diagnosis cases (only in Hubei Province), which meant that the sole criterion of nucleic acid testing ended.
也就是说，按照这个方案，郝明的奶奶将会得到救治，但医疗资源能否跟上，也许又要另当别论了。
In other words, under this scheme, Hao Ming's grandmother would be treated, but whether the medical resources could keep up might be a different matter.
医生在查看患者肺部CT片汉阳区的彭昱娴在网上发布外婆的求助信息后，一位自称当地舆情网的工作人员联系她，告知了国家发布的新文件：重症疑似患者也会收治。
After doctors checked in with her lung CT scan in Han Yang District and posted information about Grandma's help online, a staff member claiming to be local public opinion informed her of new documents issued by the State: severe suspected patients will also be admitted.
有床位就能去，但没床位还是没办法。
You can go with a bed, but you can't go without one.
彭昱娴的外婆肺部严重感染，但核酸检测结果却是阴性，妈妈和自己都隔离了，作为阴性病人的外婆，因为肺炎，各类慢性疾病全引发了，整日在家喊着心脏疼痛，全家人也跟着痛。
Pengyu's grandmother had a severe lung infection, but her nucleic acid test was negative, and she and her mother were isolated. As a woman, she suffered from pneumonia, chronic illnesses, heart pain at home and pain.
2月4日结果显示，妈妈和自己的核酸检测结果均为阳性。
Results on February 4 showed that both mother and her own nucleic acid test results were positive.
确诊了。
Diagnosed.
妈妈情况危重，呼吸困难，无法行动，说一两个字，就喘气不止。
Mom was critically ill, breathless, unable to move, and gasping for breath after a word or two.
从CT影像看，妈妈的肺部白化，已经发展成重症，最后由武汉市第五医院收治。
From CT imaging, mother's lung albinism, has developed into a severe disease, finally admitted to Wuhan Fifth Hospital.
对于彭昱娴来说，确诊，是一个早就知道的结果，终于得到了医学上的认定。
For Peng Yu, the diagnosis is a long-known result, finally got medical recognition.
一家人从1月20日开始，就陆续出现症状，妈妈是第一个患者，随后是外婆，没有病床，只能居家隔离。
The family began to show symptoms on 20 January, with the mother being the first patient, followed by the grandmother, who had no bed and had to be isolated at home.
都是至亲至爱之人，悉心照顾的情感联结大于个人安危的顾虑。
All are loved ones, and the affective bonds of caring are greater than the concerns of personal safety.
“又不是专业人员，防护措施做得不够”，家庭内部的聚集感染，成了一个必然的局面。
"It is not a professional, protective measures do not do enough," the family within the aggregation of infection, has become an inevitable situation.
彭昱娴1月26日出现症状，28日去照CT，肺部有磨玻璃，但她身体状态还好，医生同样建议她，先回家隔离。
Peng Yu showed symptoms on January 26, 28 to take a CT, the lungs grinding glass, but she is in good health, the doctor also advised her, first home isolation.
期间，病情反反复复，时有好转。
During the period, the condition back and forth, sometimes improving.
确诊后的第二天夜里，也就是2月5日夜里，彭昱娴刚躺下，就有电话打来，说，一小时内来接你去隔离。
The night after the diagnosis, on the night of 5 February, when Pengyu lay down, a telephone called and said that she would pick you up and isolate you in an hour.
凌晨1点过，她收拾东西上了车，被接到汉阳区的一个集合点，等齐了其他患者，最后由一辆公交车，转到了武汉展览中心的方舱医院。
After 1: 00 a.m., she picked up her things and got on the bus. She was taken to a meeting place in Hanyang district.
那里很空旷，用木板隔了隔间，分出了几个大病区。
There is very open, with wooden partitions across the compartment, separated out a few major disease areas.
3点钟，她被安排到了5号病区。
At three o'clock, she was assigned to ward 5.
一个病区有二十张床，隔着半米左右的距离，这里隔离的主要以轻症患者为主，但也有咳嗽声此起彼伏。
There are twenty beds in one area, about half a metre away, and the isolation is mainly for light patients, but there are also coughs.
江汉方舱医院出发的路上，下着雨，彭昱娴拍下雨滴朦胧的车窗，发了朋友圈：在路上，得到一个早就知道的结果，可是会相对宽心很多。
On the way out of Jianghan Fangdao Hospital, it was raining. Peng Yu and Xian took photos of the rain dripping through the window and made friends.
但一说到80多岁的外婆，她就哽咽起来，泣不成声。
But when it comes to Grandma in her 80s, she sobs and sobs.
被隔离后，她无能为力了。
After being quarantined, she couldn't help it.
她只能等着舅舅和父亲传来好消息。
She could only wait for good news from her uncle and father.
《南风窗》记者作为某个救援队的志愿者，2月4日以来，开始跟访陈琦、徐敏、郝明这样的求助者，并试图帮他们对接到医疗资源。
Since February 4, reporters from South Window, a volunteer for a rescue team, have been following up with clients such as Chen Qi, Xu Min and Hao Ming and trying to help them receive medical resources.
好的局面是，随着火神山、雷神山、各大方舱医院建设完成并投入使用，床位紧缺的问题，正在得到缓解。
The good news is that the shortage of beds is being alleviated with the completion and commissioning of the Mount of Fire, Mount Raytheon and the major cabin hospitals.
但遗憾的是，有时电话响起，还没问出对方问题是否得到解决，对方就说，可能不需要了。
Unfortunately, sometimes the phone rings without asking if the other person's problem has been solved. The other person says it may not be necessary.
显然，一些患者并没有跑赢这样的速度。
Obviously, some patients don't win that fast.
有人沉默着地挂掉电话，也有人愤怒地骂着。
Some hung up the phone in silence while others scolded angrily.
2月6日凌晨，郝明给我发了消息：当地卫健委告诉我们，住院单已经开好，第二天就可住院。
In the early morning of Feb. 6, Hao Ming sent me the news: the local health committee told us that the hospital bill had been opened and that we could be hospitalized the next day.
最后他说：“可惜奶奶等不到了。
At last he said, "Too bad Grandma can't wait.
”到了第三天，徐敏的婆婆陈慧终于确诊了，他们盼来了阳性的核酸检测结果，但不幸的是，60岁的婆婆，依然没有等来床位，2月7日晚间，徐敏在朋友圈下午公布了婆婆离世的消息。
"On the third day, Xu's mother-in-law, Chen Hui, finally confirmed that they had tested positive for nucleic acid, but unfortunately the 60-year-old mother-in-law still had not waited for her bed.
好消息也有。
There is good news.
2月6日晚间，蔡婷就跟我分享了喜讯，这天，她跟小姨通了电话，小姨的声音健康得如同做化疗之前那样。
On the evening of February 6, Cai Ting shared the good news with me. On that day, she talked to my aunt on the phone. Her voice was as healthy as before chemotherapy.
她的小姨，一个癌症化疗患者，免疫力极度低下的情况下，似乎痊愈了。
Her aunt, a cancer chemotherapist, with extremely low immunity, seems to have recovered.
目前，小姨已经做了一次核酸，结果为阴性，如果等来第二份检测结果也是阴性，便可获准出院，只需在隔离区住一个星期后，即可回家了。
At present, aunt has done a nucleic acid, the results are negative, if the second test results are negative, can be allowed to leave the hospital, only to stay in the isolation zone for a week before returning home.
另一边，尽管蔡婷妈妈只是高度疑似的单阳患者，但按照最新的诊疗方案，这种情况也能报住院。
On the other hand, although Cai Ting's mother is only a highly suspected single Yang patient, according to the latest diagnosis and treatment program, this situation can also be reported to hospital.
6日下午，下着雨，没有车，她推着轮椅，推了一个多小时，总算把69岁的妈妈推进了医院。
On the afternoon of June 6, when it was raining and there was no car, she wheeled her wheelchair and managed to wheeled her 69-year-old mother into the hospital.
她回到家里，身疲力竭，准备着好好休息之后，重新投入战斗。
She came home exhausted, ready for a good rest and back into battle.
最新消息医疗物资紧张、检测确诊艰难的状况正在得到缓解。
The latest medical supplies are tight, the difficult conditions of detection and diagnosis are being alleviated.
这几天，火神山、雷神山医院和方舱相继投入使用，集中收治重症、轻症患者。
In the past few days, the fire god mountain, thunder Shenshan hospital and square cabin put into use one after another, centralize treatment serious, light disease patient.
火神山医院已于2月4日开始正式接诊、收治新冠肺炎的确诊患者，4天后的今天，雷神山医院也交付使用，首批医疗队员已经进驻，今天就会开始收治患者。
On February 4, 2008, Mount Fukuyama Hospital opened for official treatment of newly diagnosed patients with pneumonia. Four days later, Lui Shen Shan Hospital was also commissioned. The first batch of medical staff has already arrived and patients will be admitted today.
两家专门医院共计床位2500张。
Two specialized hospitals have a total of 2,500 beds.
从2月3日晚开始，武汉紧急抽调20个省大型三级综合医院的医学救援队，将武汉市体育场馆、会展中心等13处逐步改造为“方舱医院”，用于集中收治新冠肺炎轻症患者。
Since the evening of February 3, Wuhan has drawn up emergency medical rescue teams from 20 large-scale level-III polyclinics in 20 provinces, transforming 13 of Wuhan's stadiums, convention and exhibition centers into "Fangcao Hospital" for centralized treatment of patients with mild cases of pneumonia.
目前，武汉会展中心、洪山体育馆、武汉客厅建设的三个方舱医院，逐步投入使用。
At present, Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan living room construction of the three square cabin hospitals, gradually put into use.
对于部分发热患者因客观原因无法确诊，难以得到有效的隔离和救治的情况，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部提出“应收尽收、应治尽治”的原则，要求确诊患者必须实行集中收治，疑似患者必须实行集中隔离，无法明确排除可能的发热患者必须实行集中隔离观察，确诊患者的密切接触者必须实行集中隔离观察。
For some febrile patients can not be diagnosed for objective reasons, it is difficult to get effective isolation and treatment, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command put forward the principle that patients must be admitted centrally, suspected patients must be centralized isolation, can not explicitly exclude possible febrile patients must be centralized quarantine observation, confirmed by close contacts of patients must be centralized observation.
同时，全国各地对武汉的驰援从未停止。
At the same time, all over the country to Wuhan's assistance has never stopped.
据2月6日湖北省召开的新冠肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会的情况说明，目前共有96支医疗队的9061名医疗队员支援武汉的医疗救治工作。
According to a press conference on February 6 in Hubei Province, 9,061 medical personnel from 96 medical teams are supporting medical treatment in Wuhan.
针对各个市州医疗资源相对紧张的实际状况，11支医疗队，1535名医务人员也被分配到黄冈、鄂州、孝感、咸宁、荆州、荆门、襄阳等10个地市。
In view of the relatively tight medical resources in each city and county, 11 medical teams and 1535 medical staff were also assigned to 10 cities, including Huanggang, Huangzhou, Xiaogan, Xianning, Jingzhou, Jingmen and Xiangyang.
（文中部分人名为化名）作者 | 南风窗记者 何承波编辑| 李少威排版 | GINNY南风窗新媒体出品_____猜你还想看_围观活着，在武汉故事小胖子李文亮热文“传谣”还是“吹哨”，需要给个公道点击购买最新一期《南风窗》武汉加油！。
South Window Reporter & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我哭了，只求一张病床”。
"I cried and asked for a bed."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "“我哭了，只求一张病床”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "I cried and only asked for a bed" & quot;
var msg_desc = "“盼着证明自己得病了，就怕它出个阴性的结果。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Looking forward to proving that he was ill, I was afraid it might turn out negative.
”";。
";;
title: '活着，在武汉',。
A: Living at & at Wuhan & apos;.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '小胖子李文亮',。
Little fat Li Wenliang & apos;.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '“传谣”还是“吹哨”，需要给个公道',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
