这个春节，每个人都不容易。
This Spring Festival, everyone is not easy.
爱你们的。
I love you guys.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
昨天，我们发起了征集，请身在疫区的同胞、奋战在疫情第一线上的医护人员、全国各地留守家中防疫的人们讲述这个春节发生的真实故事，在后台收到的近百份留言中，我们筛选并刊登如下，我们是倾听者，也是见证者——01这个春节，是过的最独一无二的一个春节！怎么说呢，百感交集！有焦虑，有担忧，有幸福......腊月29，我的爸爸妈妈公公婆婆都来齐了。
Today, we launched a call for our compatriots in affected areas, medical personnel fighting on the frontline of the epidemic, and people staying at home to prevent epidemic diseases to tell the true story of the Spring Festival.
那天是武汉开始封城的那天——2020年1月23号。
It was the day Wuhan began to seal the city - January 23, 2020.
我是从22号开始对疫情敏感起来，从那时感觉它开始危及到我们了！之前科室有个同事是武汉的，在腊月23号之前我们就谈论过武汉华南海鲜市场的病毒感染问题，当时只是作为一个社会热点新闻谈论了一下，同事也说我回家还要经过汉口火车站呢，都没有太在意。
I started to be sensitive to the epidemic from the 22nd, when I felt it was beginning to endanger us.Before the 23rd December, a colleague from Wuhan had talked about the virus infection in Wuhan South China Seafood Market before December 23rd.
我21号接来了爸妈，回到襄阳后，疫情已经开始严重了，大家开始更多的讨论这个事儿了。
When I picked up my parents on the 21st and returned to Xiangyang, the epidemic began to get serious and people began to talk more about it.
先说一下我们家的情况：我老公家是天门的，我家是襄阳保康的，我们在襄阳买房定居了，今年打算在这里新房过年，我们这里有在新房过第一个年的传统。
My husband's house is Tianmen's, my home is Xiangyang Baokang, we bought a house in Xiangyang settled down, this year intends to live here new house New Year, we have the tradition of living in a new house for the first year.
我也非常期待着两边的父母今年在新房过个热热闹闹的新年。
I'm also looking forward to a busy new year in my new home from both sides.
可是武汉封城了！封城了！——我突然意识到疫情来到了我的身边。
But Wuhan closed the city! Sealed the city! - I suddenly realized that the epidemic came to my side.
这个时候突然慌了，不知所措，我不希望我的公公婆婆过来了！天门离武汉很近，他们那里大部分人都是在武汉工作，我老公小姨一家，我老公小叔一家，他们常年在武汉工作。
This time suddenly panic, at a loss, I do not want my mother-in-law to come! Tianmen near Wuhan, where most of the people are working in Wuhan, my husband and aunt, my husband's uncle's family, they work in Wuhan all year round.
年底，结婚聚会扎堆，传染是很容易的事儿——他们不愿意早点过来就是因为有好几家宴席需要参加。
Toward the end of the year, weddings gather together and contagion is easy - they don't want to come early because there are several parties to attend.
1月22号，我婆婆打电话告诉我，要带野味狗獾子过来吃，说专门买的让我们尝尝鲜，要是在以前，我并不会觉得有什么，可能也会吃。
On January 22nd, my mother-in-law called and told me that she would bring the game badger to eat. She told me that she would let us try something new.
但是现在，我立马说，野味不能吃了，会传染病毒，而且让他们不要串门可！可是，公公说没事儿没事儿。
But now, I immediately said that game can not eat, will infectious diseases, and let them do not visit the door can! But, father-in-law said it is okay.
我立马给我老公说，让他去劝说。
I immediately told my husband to persuade him.
我不知道他怎么说的，最终他们还是带过来了而且还放在了餐桌上！我最终怀着焦虑迎接了我的公公婆婆们，他们晚上12点以后到达襄阳——我婆婆第二天中午就把狗獾子端上了饭桌。
I don't know what he said, but eventually they came and they were on the table! I finally greeted my parents-in-law with anxiety, and they arrived in Xiangyang after 12: 00 p.m. My mother-in-law brought the badger to the table at noon the next day.
我老公嫌我天天在他耳边叨叨疫情，他嫌我烦。
My husband disliked me for whispering about the epidemic in his ear every day.
出门让他们带口罩，他们不戴，我妈说的很坚决，“我懒得戴口罩！”我真的快崩溃了！只有我一个人觉得重要，可是他们不在乎，那么防控又有什么意义！随着疫情的加重，23号晚上我们去给孩子买奶粉，在我的劝说了，我爸和我老公戴上了口罩出门。
Let them wear masks, they do not wear them, my mother said firmly, "I am too lazy to wear masks!" I really close to collapse! Only I feel important, but they do not care what the prevention and control!
那一刻，我的心安定了些！之后的几天，他们也看到了事态越来越严重，各个地方封城，交通管制，不让出门，对他们触动很大。
In the days that followed, they also saw the situation getting worse and worse, and they were greatly touched by the fact that places were closed to traffic and not allowed to go out.
购买生活物资都是我和老公戴着口罩去买，买了立马就回。
Buying supplies is my husband and I wear masks to buy, bought immediately back.
我记得一个很深刻的对比，22号晚上我们出门去鼓楼北街，只有一半以上的人戴了口罩，那个地方是襄阳最繁华的街道！到了23号我们去小区超市，十个人中只有一两个没戴，几乎都戴上了口罩，这个变化真的让我大吃一惊！从除夕开始，我们一大家子就窝在家里了。
On the evening of the 22nd, when we went out to Drum Tower North Street, more than half of us wore masks, and that was the most prosperous street in Xiangyang! When we went to the local supermarket on the 23rd, only one or two of ten people didn't wear them and almost all wore masks.
一家人一起关注疫情，一起看新闻，一起聊天，逗宝宝，看电视剧，包饺子，做饭，做卫生，其乐融融！这么多年来很少有这么安静祥和的春节了，我们很享受这样真正陪伴家人的时光！说实话心里也是隐隐的关注着公公婆婆的身体的，他们身体底子差，免疫力低下，是特别易感人群，他们的一声咳嗽我都会特别注意。
The family followed the epidemic together, watched the news together, chatted with each other, amused the baby, watched TV series, made dumplings, cooked food, and had a good time with their families.
不过到目前为止，他们都很好！我也渐渐开始安心了！希望我们都好好的，共同度过这个春节！襄阳加油！武汉加油！我们一定会好起来！——天之娇子 湖北襄阳市02隔离病毒 ，但隔离不了爱。
But so far, they are very good! I am beginning to ease up gradually! Hope that we all spend this Spring Festival together! Xiangyang Come on! Wuhan Come on! We will be fine! - Tianjiao son Hubei Xiangyang City 02 isolate the virus, but can not isolate love.
大年初二本是我和男友的订婚宴，但因为我是一名基层医生， 因为男友是人民警察，我们在那天都各自奔赴岗位——他在高速卡点执勤，告知我，他要从凌晨开始到早上八点，真的特别心疼。
My boyfriend and I had an engagement party on New Year's Day, but because I was a primary-level doctor and my boyfriend was a People's Police officer, we all went to our posts that day - he was on duty at a high-speed checkpoint and told me he was going to be really upset from dawn until 8 a.m.
可能我们接下来半个月都见不到了。
Maybe we won't see each other for the next half month.
——夏天 浙江省衢州市1月28日，新疆乌鲁木齐，在新疆医科大学院内，医疗队队员、新疆医科大学第一附属医院重症监护室医护人员吕俊（左）与家人道别03我，武汉人，2020年1月19号，带着刚退休的爸爸，和老公孩子一起去厦门旅游，票是几天前就定好的，计划23号回，和留在武汉的妈妈、弟弟和弟媳一起过新年，今年是弟弟在武汉新房过的第一年，按照老家的习俗，大家要在新家一起过个热热闹闹的新年。
On January 28, 2006, Urumqi, Zhejiang Province, members of the medical team and medical staff of the intensive care unit of Xinjiang Medical University First Affiliated Hospital, Lu Junjun (left) said goodbye to his family.
到了厦门，天很暖，一大家子逛着中山路，计划着第二天的鼓浪屿之行。
Arriving in Xiamen, it was warm, a large family strolled around Zhongshan Road, planning a trip to Gulangyu the next day.
1月20号，逛了厦门的网红景点，然后又去了心向许久的鼓浪屿，旅途中已有些消息说武汉有了肺炎，老公也随口说了几句武汉好像有了冠状肺炎，我不以为然，这个关于华南海鲜市场还有不明肺炎的事情，1月初的时候听同事提起过，后来又听说是谣言，似乎也看到过不存在人传人的可能，所以我们都没放在心上，再说，昨天从武汉离开的时候，还一片宁静祥和，所以我和老公都没放在心上，继续游玩，还为晚上去哪儿吃饭商量了半天。
January 20th, visited Xiamen's net red spots, and then went to the heart of the long-standing Gulangyu, the journey has some news that Wuhan has pneumonia, my husband casually said that Wuhan seems to have pneumonia, my husband said in early January, I heard that there is no possibility of human-to-human pneumonia,
晚上九点多到了宾馆，我首先和导游敲定了明天的土楼行程，随后刷了刷手机，关于肺炎的消息多了起来，但是氛围还不算紧张，一个武汉的朋友还发了张带口罩抢着买房子的照片。
When I arrived at the hotel at 9: 00 pm, I first and guide finalized tomorrow's earth floor itinerary, then brushed the mobile phone, more news about pneumonia, but the atmosphere is not tense, a friend of Wuhan also issued a muffle to buy a house photos.
我们还戏谑道冒着生命买房子。
We joke about buying a house at the risk of our lives.
1月21号一大早坐了大巴去土楼，路上老公和爸爸还买了一大堆的茶叶和烟，想着过年送给亲朋好友，整整两大袋子。
On the way, my husband and father bought a lot of tea and cigarettes, and thought of giving them to friends and relatives for the Spring Festival.
在路上的时候，有位亚美利亚的游人聊起天，他说到了武汉肺炎的事情，老公笑着说连外国人民也知道了武汉。
On the way, a tourist in Ameria chatted with him about Wuhan pneumonia, and his husband laughed and said that even the foreign people knew Wuhan.
游玩回城的路上，游客中有人提到了武汉，我微笑着说道，我们就是武汉来的，离开的时候武汉地铁上都没人带口罩，正常的很，让大家不用太紧张，大家互相笑笑，没说什么了。
Wuhan was mentioned among the tourists on the way back to the city, I said with a smile, we are from Wuhan, the time to leave the Wuhan Metro no one wearing masks, normal, let us not too nervous, everyone smiled, did not say anything.
晚上到了酒店，还在考虑到哪儿吃饭，关于肺炎的消息已经铺天盖地了，人传人，感染人数等刺激了我，妈妈也从武汉打来了电话，嘱咐我们早点回家。
I arrived at the hotel at night, thinking about where to eat, the news of pneumonia has been inundated, people-to-people, the number of infections, etc. stimulated me, my mother also called from Wuhan, told us to go home early.
我坐不住了，点了外卖，就赶紧去酒店附近买口罩，先去的两个药店都没有，卖完了，我更加紧张了，跑了好几条街，看了商店就进去问，终于买到了几包口罩，不管价格，也不管是不是用。
I couldn't take it out, so I went to buy a mask near the hotel. The first two pharmacies were empty. I was even more nervous. I ran through the streets, looked at the shop, and finally bought a few bags of masks, regardless of the price or not.
买回来，有几个是防雾霾的，有些没有包装袋，看起来质量不好，但是这个时候有了口罩似乎心也安定了不少。
Some of them were smog-proof, some were unpackaged, and looked of poor quality, but by this time the mask seemed reassuring.
折腾到十一点，游玩的兴致一点都没有了，我们只想着赶紧回家，火车票是23号的，就准备改签到22号，票都没了。
At eleven o'clock the amusement was gone, and we were anxious to get home. The train ticket was twenty-three, and we were ready to go back to the 22nd.
厦门到长沙的票还有，决定立刻买到长沙，再转武汉或者老公的老家赤壁。
Xiamen to Changsha tickets, decided to immediately buy Changsha, and then to Wuhan or her husband's hometown red wall.
一夜无眠，耳边始终回荡着妈妈的话：无论如何，你们把你爸爸送回武汉过年！22号，收拾好行李，我们把口罩带的严严的，踏上了回家的路。
After all, you sent your father back to Wuhan for the Spring Festival! Twenty-two, pack your bags, we put our masks on the strict, and set out on our way home.
完全没有出来时候的轻松，一路火车上没有取口罩，到了长沙已是晚上10点半了，下着小雨，网上原定的酒店原来是民宿，卫生条件看起来很一般，有老人和孩子，我们就赶紧在周围换了一家商务酒店，很快就入住了。
It was 10: 30pm on the Changsha train. It was raining. The hotel on the net was originally intended to be a residential residence. The sanitary conditions looked normal. There were old people and children.
一家人折腾到半夜十二点，终于入睡了，想着明天就能到赤壁，老公留在赤壁陪婆婆过年，我就能按妈妈的要求把爸爸和孩子送回武汉过年了。
The family toiled until midnight, finally fell asleep, thinking that tomorrow will be able to go to the bare wall, my husband stayed with her mother-in-law for the New Year, and I can send my father and children back to Wuhan for the New Year.
也许是头天没休息好，也许是太紧张了，这一晚睡的不错。
Maybe I didn't have a good rest the day before, maybe I was too nervous and I slept well.
23号，一觉醒来快到九点了，醒来后知道的第一件事就是武汉封城了，太不可思议了，昨天网上疯传武汉有可能封城的时候，老公还说，非典都没有封城的，所以我们没想到武汉这次竟然封城了，还这么快。
23, a wake-up is nearly 9 o'clock, the first thing you know when you wake up is Wuhan closed, it is incredible, yesterday crazy online rumors Wuhan may be closed, my husband also said, SARS has not been closed, so we did not expect Wuhan this time actually closed, so so fast.
老公还比较理性，他说如果武汉封城了，接下来武汉周围的八加一城市圈就会封，然后就是封小区，虽然我知道他说的很有道理，但是我还是不相信地问：会吗？真的会有那么严重吗?这个时候，妈妈打来电话，武汉我们回不去了。
My husband is still more rational, he said that if Wuhan closed, the next around Wuhan around the eight plus one city circle will be sealed, and then sealed the community, although I know he said very reasonable, but I still do not believe that: Will? Is it really that serious?
可是回赤壁，妈妈也更不放心了，老公家里兄弟多，大哥大嫂还有二妹都从武汉回，接触的人多更不安全。
But back to the red wall, mother also more uneasy, husband at home more brothers, elder brother sister-in-law and two sisters back from Wuhan, contact more people are more unsafe.
思前想后，我决定就在长沙酒店先待着，哪儿也不去，过完三天年再说。
After much thought, I decided to stay at Changsha Hotel for three days without going anywhere.
这时候，关于肺炎的消息铺天盖地，我们也真正地感受到严重的程度。
At this time, the news about pneumonia is overwhelming, and we really feel the severity of it.
留在酒店，父亲是首先排斥的，他一直不习惯住酒店，可是事已至此，他也只能接受。
Staying in the hotel, his father is the first exclusion, he has not been used to living in the hotel, but so far, he can only accept.
我们出门的时候没带什么衣服，这时候都是问题。
We didn't take any clothes with us when we went out. It was a problem.
24号，大年三十，我们生平第一次在酒店过春节，餐厅人不多，当时好像就我们一桌，虽然心酸，但是毕竟是新年，父亲点了一条鱼，他说要年年有余。
It was the first Spring Festival in our lives in a hotel. It seemed as if we were alone at the table. But it was the New Year after all.
想起远在武汉的亲人，我们在外也要好好的。
Reminds in Wuhan the family member, we also must be good outside.
我们请服务员帮忙拍下了这顿难忘的团圆饭，发给了亲朋，送出了祝福。
We asked the waiter to help film this memorable reunion dinner, sent to relatives and friends, sent a blessing.
除夕夜，酒店房间孩子和父亲看着电视，我和老公刷着手机，不知不觉泪流满面，武汉医务人员奋战一线，武汉加油，武汉请求物资的消息在朋友圈刷屏。
On New Year's Eve, the children and father watching TV, my husband and I brush mobile phones, tears unknowingly flow, Wuhan medical staff fighting the frontline, Wuhan refueling, Wuhan requested materials in the circle of friends brush screen.
作为一个在武汉十几年，求学然后工作结婚的人，我对这个城市的感情是复杂的，我不会说武汉话，但是我有武汉的朋友，武汉的同事，武汉的家，这一刻，我有作为武汉人深深的身份认同感，没错，我就是武汉人，从别处到武汉扎下了根的新武汉人。
Wuhan as more than a decade, then work and married people, my feelings about the city is complex, I can not speak Wuhan, but I have Wuhan friends, Wuhan colleagues, Wuhan home, I have a deep identity as Wuhan people, yes, I am Wuhan, from elsewhere to plant roots in Wuhan, the new Wuhan.
除夕夜，外地的朋友都在关心地问我，我回复：一切安好！25号大年初一，吃了早餐回到房间，老公说看到了外地酒店赶武汉人的消息。
On New Year's Eve, friends in the field are asking me with concern, I replied: everything is well! On the 25th New Year's Day, after breakfast back to his room, my husband said that he saw the hotel to catch up with Wuhan news.
我的心情陡然也沉重起来了，不会那么惨吧，好歹让我们把三天年过完吧。
My heart suddenly heavy up, will not be so sad, somehow let us end the three days.
一上午安安静静，孩子憋在酒店，只能和外公看动画片，孩子5岁了，每天酒店所在的辖区有人为我们测量体温，她大概也知道了情况，她知道了我们暂时回不了家，也不哭不闹了。
The children kept quiet all morning at the hotel and could only watch cartoons with my grandfather. The baby was 5 years old and someone in the hotel's district took our temperature every day. She probably knew that we couldn't go home for a while and she didn't cry.
初一中午12点左右，酒店打来电话通知我们2点前退房，因为按照上面的要求酒店不营业了。
About 12 noon on the first day of junior high, the hotel called to inform us to check out before 2 o'clock, because the hotel is closed according to the above requirements.
我接到电话懵了，没想到网上传的武汉人被赶的情况竟然如此真实地发生在我们身上。
I received a call Meng, did not expect that the online transmission of Wuhan people were driven out of the situation actually happened to us.
我告诉酒店，我们没地方去，如果上面让酒店关门，对我们这些滞留的武汉人有何举措没?酒店说不知道，目前没有收到。
I told the hotel, we have no place to go, if the hotel closed above, what to do for us stranded Wuhan people? The hotel said I do not know, so far did not receive.
挂了电话，看着父亲和孩子还在安静地看电视，我不知道该怎么告诉他们，我们接下来无处可去了，我们被赶了。
Hanging up, watching my father and kids watching TV quietly, I didn't know how to tell them we had nowhere else to go. We were turned off.
老公赶紧给当地辖区的卫健委打电话，对方说并没有关闭酒店，再打市长热线，对方接了电话也说目前没有安置武汉游客的具体方法。
Husband hurriedly to the local district health committee, the other side said that the hotel was not closed, then called the mayor hotline, the other side answered the phone also said that there is no specific way to place Wuhan tourists.
我冲下楼，找到酒店前台，“外面下着大雨，天气这么冷，我们有老人，有孩子，这样出去没病也会惹出病，你们忍心吗？我们不是不想回家，可是我们回不了家！我们不是逃出来的，我们想回去，我的妈妈和弟弟弟媳都还在武汉，还在家，我们19号出来的，谁知道会发生这样的事情，你让我们出去，我们现在能到哪儿去?！”哭着说完这些，我知道自己失态了，可是如果我不据理力争，大年初一我们就会流落街头，无处可去。
I rushed down to the front desk and found the front desk. "It's raining hard outside, it's so cold, we have old people and children, we're not going home, but we can't get home!
从没这么无力过！前台的服务员看我不会走的架势，赶紧打电话给店长，经交涉，同意我们继续住，但是餐厅要关门，没有饮食让我们去买点泡面备着，也没有人再做卫生，房间要换到8楼，另外房费要从三百涨到五百，不能按照网上订的房费了。
The clerk at the front desk, seeing that I would not leave, immediately called the store manager and agreed to stay, but the restaurant was closed, there was no food or drink for us to buy some noodles, and no one had to clean it.
此时此刻，我能说什么，除了答应把我们留下，我们还能有什么不同意。
What can I say at this moment but promise to keep us here?
我抬头看看了酒店大厅的方间价格，上面还赫然写着三百多。
I looked up at the prices in the hotel lobby and saw that they were more than three hundred.
我指着价格问道：哪儿有五百?上面明明是三百多。
I pointed to the price and asked, Where are five hundred? It's over three hundred.
服务员瞥了一眼，那好吧，就按那个价格。
The waiter glanced at it. Well, then, at that price.
我除了无语，还能感激她们没把我们赶出去吗？回到房间，心中万般滋味，转念一想，人之常情，生命的安全面前，谁不怕了?！不管是涨价还是关闭餐厅，都是让我们自己离开那儿。
Can I thank them for not driving us out of the house but speechless? Back in the room, thinking, Who's not afraid of the human condition, the safety of life? Whether it's rising prices or closing restaurants, let's get out of there ourselves.
可是没有食物，只吃泡面那怎么行，更何况附近的超市不多，楼下的小商店过年不营业。
However, there is no food, only eat noodles how to do, not to mention the nearby supermarket, the small shop downstairs is closed for the New Year.
无奈之下，只好打了长沙一个朋友的电话，昨天她知道我们滞留长沙，就让我们去她家住，我们怕麻烦别人，就说在酒店过了安全期再去。
However, we had to call a friend of Changsha, yesterday she knew we stayed in Changsha, let us live in her home, we are afraid of trouble others, said the hotel after the security period.
如今，面临窘境，不得不再麻烦她。
Now, faced with a quandary, had to trouble her again.
我发了消息给她：姐姐，我们需要你的帮助。
I sent her a message: Sister, we need your help.
过了一会儿，她联系上我们，得知情况，她发了一个地址给我们，写道：一会儿给你们送钥匙。
After a while she contacted us and found out what had happened. She gave us an address and said, Give you the keys in a minute.
看到回信，潸然泪下，雪中送炭，大恩大德。
See reply, burst into tears, in the snow, great kindness.
终于，在这位姐姐的帮助下，我们住进了她的另一套房子，她父母在她家过年，目前空着，我们住在里面自觉隔离14天到安全。
Finally, with the help of her sister, we moved into another house, where her parents spent the New Year, which was empty, and where we lived in voluntary isolation for 14 days until it was safe.
感谢——圆 湖北武汉市目前坐标长沙1月29日，杭州，瞿女士下班回家后跟儿子一起与自19日起便在医院忙碌的丈夫视频聊天04我是北京的一名航天职工，老家在湖北省洪湖市，大学毕业后一直在航天系统工作，已经17年了。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
随着人到中年，父亲逐日衰老（母亲早已10多年前去世），近几年春节我都是要回湖北老家过年的。
As middle-aged people, the father aging day by day (mother has died more than 10 years ago), in recent years I would like to return to Hubei home Spring Festival.
由于爱人春节期间要值班，今年我还早早的订好了我和孩子两人从北京到武汉的往返高铁票，就等着回家欢快过春节了。
Because of the love during the Spring Festival duty, this year I also booked the children and I from Beijing to Wuhan shuttle high-speed train tickets, waiting to return home happy Spring Festival.
1月20日早上，看到每日都有增加冠状病毒感染的人数，我有点呆不住了，和爱人商量后，将孩子往返车票都给退了，后来我真庆幸好在没有带孩子回来。
On the morning of January 20th, seeing the daily increase in the number of people infected with coronavirus, I was a bit overwhelmed. After consulting my wife, I returned the tickets to and from my children.
20号晚上，我独自一人踏上了回武汉的高铁。
On the evening of the 20th, I was alone on the high-speed train back to Wuhan.
一路无事，当火车快到武汉站时，我看到所有人都戴上了口罩，连不足周岁的小孩也给戴的严严实实，让人有种如临大敌的感觉。
When the train was approaching Wuhan Station, I saw that all of them were wearing masks. Even the children under one year old were wearing a mask.
但是下了车之后，我看到车站里拉客去旅店的，坐车的，来来往往的，戴口罩的人并不是太多，不由让人想起“只有武汉人不知道自己处在疫区”的段子。
But when I got off the bus, I saw the station pulling people to and fro in hotels, buses, and masks were not too many, reminding people that only the Wuhan people did not know that they were in the epidemic area.
下车后，由于已经晚上十一点，已经没有了武汉回洪湖的大巴，也不好意思麻烦亲戚这么晚来武汉接我，因此提前在武汉订好了酒店。
After getting off, as it has already 11 pm, Wuhan back to Honghu bus, also embarrassed to trouble relatives so late to meet me in Wuhan, so in advance booked a hotel in Wuhan.
出了站口，不敢在火车站多做停留，我赶紧联系了车上定好的网约车，直奔光谷那边酒店。
Out of the station, dare not do more stop at the railway station, I hastened to contact the car set up a net car, straight to the other side of the optical valley hotel.
第二天上午，联系了表弟直接从酒店接我回洪湖老家。
The next morning, I contacted my cousin to pick me up directly from the hotel back to my hometown of Honghu.
接下来腊月二十八九，村里，镇上一切如常，虽然电视上每天都在说人数增加，但是下面的村镇，大家还是像以往一样买着年货，准备过年，只是有少部分人戴上了口罩。
On the following day, in the village and in the town, everything went on as usual. Although the number of people on TV was increasing every day, the people in the villages and towns below were buying New Year's Eve as usual, only a few of them were wearing masks.
真正让村里人紧张起来的时候，是钟南山院士赴汉，习主席大年初一召开会议后，市里也在大年初一上午十点发布了封城令，随后各村就行动起来了，采用河南的硬核做法，把村头村尾路都堵上了。
When the villagers got really nervous, it was the Zhong Nan Shan academician who came to the Han Dynasty. After the first day of Xi's New Year's Day meeting, the city also issued a decree at 10 a.m. on the first day of the New Year.
之后大家基本上都戴上了口罩，虽然有些人戴的也不对，有些人戴上了也经常取下来，但好歹开始重视了。
After that, everyone basically put on a mask, although some people are not wearing the right, some people wear it often down, but somehow began to pay attention to.
随着各处封村消息传来，原本还想这几天或者坐火车飞机去打工所在地，或者自驾车回打工地的广大农村青年们，只能老老实实呆在村里了。
As news of the villages spread, the vast majority of young rural people who had wanted to go to work by train or plane, or drive back to work, had to stay in the village honestly.
大家都戏言，这是这么多年来，春节人最齐，呆的时间最久的一次，有可能的话，估计会是我大学毕业后第一次在家里过元宵了。
It is said that this is so many years, Spring Festival is the most consistent, stay for the longest time, if possible, I will be at home after graduation from the first Lantern Festival.
这几天在家里，按照农村风俗，大家还会聚在一起打打牌，戴着口罩。
These days at home, in accordance with rural customs, we will also get together to play cards, wearing masks.
但是随着新闻中说这几天是病毒感染的爆发期之后，大家也不敢聚堆了，只能在门口呆着晒晒太阳，聊聊天。
But with the news that these days is the outbreak of the virus, people do not dare to gather, can only stay at the door to bask in the sun, chat.
有时候想想也觉得这样的日子很惬意，啥都不用干就为社会做贡献了，只是未知的危险时刻伴随左右，真心希望早日结束，回归正常生活。
Sometimes think about it also feel very comfortable, nothing to do to contribute to society, just unknown moments accompanied by a dangerous, sincere hope that the early end, return to normal life.
——浪子 湖北洪湖市05第一次如此近距离地感受到死亡的威胁。
The threat of death was felt so closely for the first time in Honghu City, Hubei Province.
父亲在一月中旬从江苏回到新疆，回家三天后开始发烧，咳嗽。
My father returned to Xinjiang from Jiangsu in mid-January and returned home three days later with a fever and a cough.
咽炎是父亲的长年旧病，发热也是有因可寻，一开始大家都没往那处想。
Pharyngitis is the father's long-standing illness, fever is also a cause to look for, at the beginning we did not think that way.
一天夜里我被父亲的起夜咳痰声吵醒三四次，第二天一早，母亲带着他去了市里的指定发热门诊。
One night I was woken up three or four times by my father's coughing up and early the next morning my mother took him to the city's designated fever clinic.
看病经验很糟糕，新疆零下十几度的天气下，父母被留在一个冷冰冰的隔离间里两三个小时，父亲为了早上的体检一直空腹。
The experience was bad. In Xinjiang, parents were left in a cold seclusion for two or three hours in a dozen degrees below zero.
终于母亲忍不住了，带着父亲打了半个小时的出租车回了家。
Finally my mother couldn't help but take my father back home in a taxi for half an hour.
吃过饭没多久，又被医院紧急叫回去，这时已经是下午六点左右。
It was about six o'clock in the afternoon when I was called back by the hospital in an emergency.
接下来就是两天多的隔离，没有药没有针，每一顿饭母亲都做好打车从城南到城北。
There were more than two days of isolation, no medicine and no needles, and every meal Mother took a taxi from the south to the north of the city.
一遍又一遍各式各样的检查把父亲逼到了崩溃的边缘，他开始拒绝接我的电话，我也无法见到他。
He was forced to the verge of collapse by various tests, and he began to refuse to answer my calls, and I could not see him.
而作为家人的我们同样被隔离在家。
And we, as family members, are also isolated at home.
一天晚上醒来，天还没亮，母亲躺在我旁边望着天花板，开始给我交代家里每一张银行卡存着的位置、密码，还有某某某欠的债，也许是暖气烧的太热，我只觉得胸口有点发闷。
One night before dawn my mother lay down beside me, looked at the ceiling, and began to explain to me the position of every bank card in the house, the password, and the debt of so-and-so, and perhaps the heating was too hot, and I felt a little stuffy in my chest.
核酸结果是在上午十一点出来的，检查结果——阴性。
Nucleic acid results came out at 11 a. m., negative results.
我以为麻烦结束了，可没想到，作为普通肺炎患者的父亲，在这种局势下，竟寻不得一处治疗的地方。
I thought the trouble was over, but I did not expect that, as the father of a common pneumonia patient, he could not find a place for treatment in such a situation.
打下这段文字的时候，天还没有黑，母亲还没有找到能给父亲打针的地方，我还在想，明天该怎么办，也在想，那些感染的人该怎么办。
It was still dark before my mother could find a place to give her father the injection. I was wondering what to do tomorrow and what to do with the infected people.
——白芷 新疆1月24日晚，兰州大学第一医院的一线医护人员在吃年夜饭06研究生在读，又恐慌，又淡定。
On the night of Jan. 24, 2006, front-line medical staff at Lanzhou University Hospital No. 1 were reading at the 2006 Graduate School of Food, panicked and relaxed.
今天是几号，农历初几我已经不太关注了，当然也不像之前过年那样倒数春节了。
Today is the number, the first few days of the lunar calendar I have not been very concerned, of course, like the New Year before the countdown to the Spring Festival.
为了跟踪最新肺炎消息，我专门下载了微博，一醒就要刷一刷。
To keep track of the latest pneumonia news, I specially downloaded Weibo, a brush to wake up.
从大概两天前，我和几个朋友已经通过几个公众号察觉到这次病情的严重，尤其有一个同学，她男朋友是北大医学研究生，自然也非常关注这个事情。
Since about two days ago, several friends and I have been aware of the seriousness of the disease through several public signs, especially one classmate, her boyfriend is a graduate medical student at Peking University, naturally also very concerned about this matter.
也是两天前，由于天冷，我开电动车着了凉，有些头疼发热，流鼻涕。
Also two days ago, due to the cold weather, I drove the electric car caught a cold, some headaches feverish, runny nose.
便不断猜想，怀疑自己得了肺炎。
Conjecture ceaselessly, suspect oneself got pneumonia.
白天体温没有升高，晚上升到37.4度，这个温度是我夹了15分钟左右拿出来的，为什么夹那么久，因为我想做最坏的打算。
My temperature didn't go up during the day, rising to 37.4 in the evening, a temperature I had to pull out for about 15 minutes, and why it took so long because I wanted to prepare for the worst.
接着我就上网查，我看到深圳发出的通报，体温超过37.3就要去医院，此刻我有些绝望。
Then I looked up on the Internet, I saw Shenzhen issued a notice, the temperature is more than 37.3 to go to the hospital, I am a little desperate.
于是，晚上，我已经做好了自己可能会确诊的准备，前去我县最大的医院。
So, at night, I have made their own diagnosis may be ready to go to my county's largest hospital.
到了医院发现，护士没带口罩，医生也没戴口罩。
At the hospital, the nurse did not wear a mask and the doctor did not wear a mask.
我填了登记表，医生问我从哪来的，我说成都，他说回来几天了，我说16晚上回来的，他说那有五六天了？我说嗯。
I filled out the registration form, the doctor asked me where I came from, I said Chengdu, he said a few days back, I said 16 night back, he said that it was five or six days? I said.
然后也没让我量体温，就让我去检验血常规，拍肺部的片子。
And then I wasn't asked to take my temperature, so I had to take a blood test and a lung biopsy.
等我都检查完这些，交给医生，医生才让我量体温，37.2开了药。
After I checked all this out, I was handed over to the doctor, who asked me to take my temperature. 37.2.
我才稍微确定我没事，就是发烧而已。
I'm just a little sure I'm okay, just feverish.
这两天，确诊人数从200多到了500多。
Over the past two days, the number of confirmed cases has increased from over 200 to more than 500.
前两天我跟我父母陈述了这个疫情，他们还有些不以为然。
I told my parents about this the other day, and they didn't agree.
昨天晚上我爸刷手机的时候也开始提醒我们了。
Last night my dad started to remind us when he was wiping his cell phone.
好在我让他们戴口罩他们也带，只有我妈那个捣蛋分子有时候嫌口罩太闷，跟小孩一样把口罩一撕，扔在桌上，说我不带它。
Luckily, I let them wear masks, and only my mother, the troublemaker, sometimes found the mask too stuffy, tore it like a child, threw it on the table and said I didn't take it.
然后我必须让她带。
Then I had to let her take it.
昨天晚上大概三四点，武汉发出通报要封城。
About three or four o'clock last night, Wuhan issued a notice to close the city.
我明白，疫情终于到了控制不住的地步。
I understand that the epidemic is finally out of control.
大家都人心惶惶，有的失眠，有的跟我一样，怀疑自己得了病。
Everyone was terrified, some sleepless, and some, like me, suspected that they were ill.
希望疫情快点被控制住。
Hopefully the outbreak will be contained soon.
希望中国人都站在一起。
I hope the Chinese people will all stand together.
希望国家政府加大作为。
It was to be hoped that national Governments would do more.
希望每个人都平平安安。
I hope everyone is safe.
——清澈湛蓝 河南省开封市07大年三十的前一天 我们在短暂地提前拜年后 我回我的娘家，他要坐五个小时的车回到上班的小站。
The day before the 30th anniversary of Kaifeng City in clear blue Henan Province I returned to my mother's house after a brief early New Year call. He had to take a five-hour bus back to work.
20号左右，即使是边陲小省都已经对疫情有所察觉。
Around the 20th, even small border provinces have been aware of the outbreak.
22号我特地挑了一辆不经过武汉的高铁回南宁，而他由于赶着天黑前到岗，只能坐G431 途径武汉 。
No. 22 I chose a high-speed train back to Nanning without passing Wuhan, and he had to take the G431 route to Wuhan as he hurried to his post before dark.
那应该是封城前最后一辆到我们这边的高铁 。
That's supposed to be the last high-speed train on our side of the road.
为什么我那么清楚记得这趟车？因为今天新闻爆出了乘坐这趟车的确诊病人。
Why do I remember the bus so well? Because today the news blew up a confirmed patient on the bus.
我的心久久不能平静，一周来所有的担心也在今天爆发到极致。
My heart was restless for a long time, and all the worries of the past week have broken out to the utmost today.
我希望他回家隔离，但听说回家的唯一一趟列车也要停运了。
I wanted him to go home in quarantine, but I heard that the only train home was going to be shut down.
虽然现在出入武汉的车都停了，但疫情结束前他还是要在铁路上公路上来回奔波，出入的是大众避之不及的场所。
Even though traffic to and from Wuhan has stopped now, he still has to travel to and fro on the highway before the epidemic ends, in places out of reach of the masses.
大敌当前，除了一线的战士，还有无数的在后备孜孜不倦的中国人在坚持和盼望。
The enemy at present, in addition to the first-line fighters, there are countless in the reserve tireless Chinese in the persistence and hope.
疫情下的微小的我们，无奈又忧愁，忐忑又充满希望 。
The disease of the small us, helpless and sad, perturbed and hopeful.
——猪猪唐 广西南宁武汉火神山医院除夕夜加紧建设，1月24日，在医院建设工地，来自中建三局的挖掘机驾驶员毛元斌在吃盒饭08我爸年前来天津的。
On January 24, Mao Yuanbin, a excavator driver from the China Construction Industry Bureau, came to Tianjin City on January 24, 2008 after building a construction site.
我妈为了照顾我和孩子，进了腊月就来了。
My mother came in December to take care of me and my children.
为了避免我爸我妈分开两地过年，所以我爸工厂还没放假我就让我爸请假来了。
To keep my dad from spending the New Year apart, I asked my dad to take leave of absence before my father's factory was closed.
1.20从山西到天津。
1.20 From Shanxi to Tianjin.
1.21带父母去吃了烤鱼。
1.21 Take my parents to roast fish.
回来到家刷手机发现，钟南山说武汉病毒人会传染人。
Back home to brush mobile phone found, Zhong Nan Shan said Wuhan virus will infect people.
应该戴口罩。
Wear a mask.
忘记是22号还是23号天津就出现第一例病症了。
Forget 22 or 23 Tianjin is the first case of the disease.
特别后悔喊父母来天津。
I regret calling my parents to Tianjin.
后来疫情越来越严重，爸爸越来越回不去，爸爸工厂本来初六上班，回不去。
Later, more and more serious epidemic, father more and more unable to go back, father's factory should have been six work, unable to go back.
不过还好今天他主任发短信说明天不开工，等通知。
But today his director texted that he would not start work tomorrow, wait for the announcement.
我和爸爸妈妈还有孩子窝在家里。
I stayed at home with my parents and kids.
我每天早晨七点准时看丁香地图。
I read the clove map at seven o'clock every morning.
想想上班时候闹钟响八回都醒不了。
Think about the eight times when your alarm clock goes off at work.
真是讽刺啊。
That's ironic.
圈在家里认真学习各个公众号的有效预防的知识，明白了，到处都有细菌，尤其医院。
Circle at home to study the effective prevention of various public numbers, understand that bacteria everywhere, especially hospitals.
家里屯的菜昨天基本上没有了，我今天赶在市场开门去买，趁着人少，少说话闷头挑菜。
The food at home was almost gone yesterday, so I rushed to the market to buy it today, taking advantage of the small number of people, less talk and picky dishes.
挑完菜去楼上超市买了一箱奶，超市老板看我放的几兜菜，关切的问:这么多，你拎得了吗？我只是点点头笑笑。
After selecting dishes to buy a case of milk upstairs supermarket, supermarket owner to see me put a few dishes, concerned: so much, you can carry it? I just nod and smile.
毕竟少说话更安全一些。
After all, speaking less is safer.
我每天都很焦虑。
I am anxious every day.
看着医生护士从各地集合去武汉疫区支援，我是党员，只能待在家里。
Watching doctors and nurses gather from all over Wuhan epidemic area to support, I am a party member, can only stay at home.
我想做一些事情，想捐款，等单位捐款时我再捐点。
I want to do something, want to donate money, and so on when I donate some more.
希望疫情能早点控制住。
I hope the outbreak can be brought under control.
我希望我也尽量不焦虑，如果继续焦虑就快抑郁了。
I hope I try not to worry too. If I continue to worry, I'm going to be depressed.
我是个单亲妈妈，不能倒下，还要照顾五岁的孩子。
I'm a single mother. I can't fall down. I have five-year-olds to look after.
加油，武汉。
Come on, Wuhan.
加油，湖北。
Come on, Hubei.
加油，天津。
Come on, Tianjin.
加油，山西。
Come on, Shanxi.
加油，我最亲爱的祖国！——安心 天津0912月份，我在河北医科大附属第一医院住院，每次经过那块发热门诊的牌子和被临时当仓库的发热门诊时，就会想到非典，也会想到（似乎包括医院）非典这样的疫情永远地消失了。
Come on, my dearest motherland! - Anxiety Tianjin 0912, I was hospitalized at Hebei Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital every time I passed the sign of the fever clinic and the fever clinic that served as a temporary warehouse.
但从元旦听到武汉制造谣言者被处理，专家辟谣的论调似乎有隐情，不是那么坚定，我突然想到那块发热门诊的牌子。
But from the New Year's Day to hear Wuhan rumour makers were dealt with, the experts refute rumors of the tone seems to be hidden, not so firm, I suddenly think of the fever clinic brand.
于是每天询问在湖北大学读书的女儿的状况，每每告诫她不要出校，多吃营养餐，补充维生素，她都深表不满，说是同学们都出去跨年嗨去了，街上的景象没有一点异常。
She was always told not to go out to school, to eat more nutritious food, and to take vitamin supplements. She complained that her classmates had all gone out to celebrate the New Year.
但她这次听话了。
But this time she was obedient.
随后我又把始发于汉口站的普快票退掉换成了武汉站的高铁票，并提前几天于11号回河北了。
Then I returned the popular express ticket from Hankou Station to Wuhan Railway Station and returned to Hebei a few days before the 11th.
当媒体仍在宣传疫情可控时，在我强迫下，孩子戴了三层医用口罩乘车。
While the media was still preaching that the outbreak was under control, I forced the child to wear a three-storey medical mask.
在车上，女儿和我连线说她被同车人看为异类，今天看来。
In the car, my daughter and I wired to say that she was seen as an alien by her fellow motorists today.
幸亏早回来了，幸亏戴了口罩。
Luckily, he returned early, thanks to his mask.
今年这个年过的一直很焦虑。
This year has been very anxious.
虽然病毒比非典毒性弱一些，但传染性似乎类比流感，在疫苗出来之前是很难象非典那样迅速消声匿迹的。
Although the virus is less toxic than SARS, infectious diseases seem to resemble influenza, and it is hard to disappear as quickly as SARS before the vaccine comes out.
最怕它长期流患人间。
Afraid of its long-term flow to the world.
因为病毒对有基础病的人造成后果尤为严重。
Because the virus has particularly serious consequences for people with underlying diseases.
所以我们早在年前就已不去父母家了，弟弟家孩子也送到父母那里。
So we did not go to their parents' home long ago, my brother's family and children also sent to their parents.
他们两口子一个在疾控中心，一个在医院，都在备战疫情。
One of them is in the CDC, the other in the hospital, and they're both preparing for the outbreak.
从今天起，每个小区都形式紧张了，发现疑似患者的锦绣天第小区已住戒备森严了，每个小区县里都派驻了防控包片干部，满大街胡同口也都是防疫条幅了。
From today, every small area is tense, found that the suspected patients of the Jinxiu Tiandi quarter has been under strict security, each county has deployed a package of prevention and control cadres, Hu Tongkou full of streets are also anti-epidemic banners.
经过上次的非典证实，全民隔离才是当年致胜的关键。
After the last SARS confirmation, the isolation of the entire population is the key to winning that year.
天佑中华。
God bless China.
——彭跃彬 河北省安平县1月27日，由136人组成的北京市属医院医疗队组建集结，带着首都人民的重托驰援武汉。
A medical team from the Beijing Municipal Hospital, composed of 136 men, was set up on January 27 in Anping county, Hebei province, to help Wuhan with the heavy trust of the people of the capital.
北京安贞医院医疗队队员曹李瑶（中）与爱人王斌在医院告别10亲姐姐在医院急诊科工作，今天一早不到七点就打电话给妈妈，说报了名去武汉支援的名，等待调配，告诉妈妈一声，妈妈说去吧……虽然最终没有选上，但是看到她发的朋友圈，内心还是很难受，面对疫情，没有局外人，做好自己，别给国家添麻烦，尽力做点贡献。
He called his mother earlier this morning and told her that he had called her name to Wuhan and asked her mother to send her name to Wuhan to support her. Although she had not been selected, she said she was still upset to see her friends.
同时愿姐姐科室的两个小哥哥和所有的医护人员平安。
At the same time wish sister's two small brothers and all the medical staff safety.
——娟 大连11那天和一个武汉的朋友聊天有感而发，写了一首小诗，成功登上了央视的热评——吕少秋 南京整理 | GINNY南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
Li Shaoqiu Nanjing, the new media outlet, bought the latest issue of Window of the South Window, a new media outlet.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这个春节，每个人都不容易。
This Spring Festival, everyone is not easy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "这个春节，每个人都不容易";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by everyone at this Spring Festival.
var msg_desc = "我们是倾听者，也是见证者";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we were listeners and witnesses & quot;;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
