武汉现在的120，相当于一辆的士。
Wuhan now 120, equivalent to a taxi.
向由。
The reason for this.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
武汉交通管制后，路面上都是120的车子不停地跑，极少有私家车及的士（摄影：远征、高星）武汉从没有如此空旷，市民们避居在家，只有医院人口密集。
Wuhan traffic control, the road is full of 120 cars running, very few private cars and taxis (photography: expedition, high star) Wuhan has never been so empty, citizens live at home, only the hospital densely populated.
疫情还在扩散。
The epidemic is spreading.
根据湖北卫健委的数据，1月29日0时-24时，湖北省新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例1032例，武汉市356例。
Between 0000 and 2400 hours on January 29, 1,032 new cases of pneumonia were reported from Hubei Province and 356 cases from Wuhan, Hubei Province, according to Hubei Wei Jiancommittee.
接连数日，医护人员奋战在一线。
For days, paramedics fought on the front lines.
一线，不只在医院，也在路上。
First line, not only in the hospital, but on the way.
武汉路上的私家车很少了，但是救护车几乎全部出动。
There are few private cars on Wuhan Road, but ambulances are almost all out.
救护车上标配5人：医生1名，护士1名，担架工2名，以及司机1名。
The ambulance was assigned five persons: one doctor, one nurse, two stretcher workers and one driver.
他们构成一个急救单元。
They make up a first aid unit.
车顶的蓝灯交织闪烁，在城中昼夜不停。
The blue lights on the roof twinkle day and night in the city.
“现在的120，相当于一辆的士”，王燕说。
"It's 120 now, the equivalent of a taxi," Wang said.
她是武汉120急救中心的一名护士。
She is a nurse at Wuhan 120 First Aid Center.
在交通管制后，她见到路面上的，都是120的车子不停地跑，极少有私家车，更打不到的士。
After traffic control, she saw 120 cars all over the road, very few private cars, not to mention taxis.
“目前就是我们，要把所有病人送去医院，（去医院）都靠我们了”。
"Right now it's us. It's up to us to take all the patients to the hospital."
他们已经很累，但他们很难停下来。
They are tired already, but they have difficulty stopping.
现在，“整家、整家地感染”王燕坚持了好几天，从早8点到第二天的早8点，24小时的三班倒节奏，“我们的工作严重超时了”。
Now, "the whole family, the entire infection" Wang Yan insisted for several days, from 8 a.m. to 8 a.m. the next day, 24-hour three-shift rhythm, "our work seriously overtime."
她最忙的一天是1月26日，要把某医院几位病人转出去，包括ICU中的5位病人。
Her busiest day was Jan. 26, when she had to remove several patients from a hospital, including five patients in the ICU.
她在中午两三点钟接到任务，忙到了凌晨两点，一直没休息，吃饭、喝水的时间都没有。
She received her errand at two or three o'clock in the morning, and was occupied until two o'clock in the morning, without a break to eat or drink.
太多人打120求助，导致任务量暴增。
Too many people turn to 120 for help, resulting in a bulge.
武汉120急救中心的一名司机王刚说，他们日常的出车量是一天八九趟，但在近段时间，出车量平均在每天十五六趟，有一个班甚至出了19趟。
Wang Gang, a driver at Wuhan's 120 Emergency Medical Center, said the daily amount of travel is eight or nine times a day, but in recent days, the average trip is 15-16 times a day, with one class even making 19 trips.
一路飞驰的救护车（摄影：远征、高星）救护车出一趟，需要一小时左右。
A speeding ambulance (photo: expedition, high star) takes about an hour to get out.
王刚说，正常情况是，病人或家属联系好了医院，120将他们送过去。
Wang said it was normal for patients or family members to contact the hospital and take them to the hospital.
如果他们没有联系医院，120一般以就近送诊的原则，将发热病人送到定点医院。
If they do not contact a hospital, the fever patient is usually taken to a designated hospital on the principle of proximity.
尽管路况畅通，但救护车出一趟，都要开十几、二十公里，耗费的时间不短。
Although the road is clear, but ambulance out of a dozen or 20 kilometers, the time taken is not short.
王刚说，因为24小时工作制，他们基本没有休息时间，“大家都要持续工作十几个小时，有时候18、19个小时”。
Because of the 24-hour workday, they have little time off, Wang said. "Everyone has to work more than 10 hours, sometimes 18 or 19 hours."
一天的时间，都在路上榨尽，他们也只能强撑着。
A day, all in the road, they can only be forced to support.
担架工张国告诉《南风窗》记者：“人都疲倦透了，人在车上，一靠着就睡着了”。
Stretcher Zhang Guoguo told Southern Window reporter: "People are tired out, people in the car, a lean on sleep."
武汉市第四医院的一个急救班组，护士张静和司机老胡，两个人一台车，12小时一个班（摄影：远征、高星）但在当前，武汉的医院床位严重不足，救护车有时还要“绕圈”。
Wuhan Fourth Hospital emergency squad, nurses Zhang Jing and driver Lao Hu, a two-person car, 12-hour class (photography: expedition, high stars) but at present, Wuhan hospital beds are seriously inadequate, ambulances sometimes have to "circle.
王刚和张国说，遇到没有床位不能收治的，他们会给家属做工作，送到下一家医院去，基本上多跑一趟就行。
Wang Gang and Zhang Guoguo said that in the face of no beds can not accept the treatment, they will work for their families, sent to the next hospital, basically an extra trip.
然而还有特殊情况。
However, there are special circumstances.
王燕说，有时找不到有床位的医院，他们就一直在不停辗转，“绕圈”很多趟，花好几个小时。
Sometimes there is no hospital with beds, Wang says, and they toss and turn around and "circle" for hours.
他们有一个120网络平台，“看看其他的同志，说可以往哪儿送。
They have a 120-web platform, "Look at the other comrades and tell them where they can send them.
我们尽量把病人送到有床位的地方去”。
We tried to take the patient to a bed.
现实的情况严峻，王燕面对的是，“打120的人很多很多，我们也不知道送哪儿去”。
The reality of the situation is serious, Wang Yan is facing, "the number of people hit 120, we do not know where to send."
她说：“我们看到了很多病人，但医院都没有床位了，有的病人就在家里死掉了。
"We saw a lot of patients, but there were no beds in the hospital and some of the patients died at home," she said.
我们心里也在流泪。
Our hearts are weeping.
”医务人员正在转移患者医疗资源的紧张，促发了一些医患之间的矛盾。
Medical staff are straining patients' medical resources, prompting some conflicts between doctors and patients.
张国说，他在医院里见到的，叫的、哭的病人和家属都有，有的甚至跟医生吵架，“谁都想先救自己”。
Zhang said he saw in the hospital, yelling, crying patients and family members, some even quarrel with the doctor, "everyone wants to save themselves first."
救护车也会遇到类似的病人。
Ambulances also encounter similar patients.
1月28日，王燕去转运一位病人，是个70岁左右的男性，他发高烧，意识不太清楚，但他执意要去七院。
On January 28, Wang Yan went to transfer a patient, a 70-year-old man with a fever and unconsciousness, but he insisted on going to the seventh hospital.
很多人不知道，120并不等于医院，他们只是负责转运病人。
Many people do not know that 120 is not the same as a hospital, they are only responsible for the transfer of patients.
王燕告诉老人，七院的床位满了。
Wang Yan told the old man that seven hospital beds were full.
但老人说：“那我要你们120干嘛呢？”老人有女儿和女婿在陪护，双方僵持不下，“我们劝他，说了半天，但他们不听”。
But the old man said, "What do I want you 120 for?" The old man was accompanied by his daughter and son-in-law.
王燕说，老人的女儿拿出手机，说：“医院的事，就你们120联系的啊。
Wang Yan said that the old man's daughter took out her mobile phone, said: "Hospital matter, you 120 contact ah.
要不然我录视频，发到网上去曝光你们”。
Otherwise I record the video and send it to the Internet to expose you.
无奈之下，王燕所在的救护车，将他们送到了七院。
But under the helpless, Wang Yan's ambulance, sends them to seven hospital.
但七院的急诊科人员说，七院没有床位了，连急诊科都没有床位了，实在是求也没用，如今是两个人共用一台呼吸机。
But emergency staff at the hospital said there were no beds in the seven hospitals and no beds in the emergency department.
老人在担架上拉着不放手，女儿女婿跟各处医院打电话，但都没有床位。
The old man was holding on to the stretcher, and his son-in-law phoned the hospitals, but there were no beds.
王燕继续劝他们，说还有很多病人需要120。
Wang Yan continued to advise them that many patients needed 120.
最终，这一家人听从安排，去了下家医院。
Eventually, the family complied and went to the next hospital.
王燕说，这一趟，在医院的劝导工作，起码用了三四十分钟时间。
Wang Yan said that this trip, the hospital in the persuasion work, at least took 30 or 40 minutes.
虽然耽误了时间，但王燕说：“老人的病状严重，在医院很多人围观。
Although the delay, but Wang Yan said: "The elderly are serious illness, many people in the hospital to watch.
我们很同情他们，也理解他们”，但是，“武汉这么多医院都是住满了人，我们现在也是很无能为力”。
"We sympathize with them and understand them," but, "Wuhan so many hospitals are full of people, we are now very powerless."
1月28日，武汉协和医院感染性疾病科，正在一线奋战的医护人员张国也遇到过不配合的病人，对方是一位老人和他十几岁的孙子。
On January 28th, Zhang Guohua, an infectious disease unit of Wuhan Concorde Hospital and a frontline medical worker, met an elderly man and his teenage grandson.
老人病况严重，但孙子只是发低烧。
The old man was very ill, but the grandson only had a low fever.
按照规定，应该把孙子一起送到医院，“但他怕在医院被传染，家属也反对送他去”。
He was supposed to be taken to hospital with his grandson. "But he was afraid of being infected in the hospital and his family was against sending him."
说了半天，还是没用，只能罢了。
After a long time, still useless, can only be.
然而到现在，家庭之间的互相传染，乃至出现“一家人都是疑似病例”，明显有增多的趋势。
By now, however, there has been a marked increase in family-to-family transmission and even "suspected family cases."
多名一线人员向《南风窗》记者证实了这一点。
Several frontline staff confirmed this to Window South.
张国在一线的体会是，在医院里抢号的人少了，但以前是一个又一个病人，现在是以家庭为单位，“整家、整家地感染，一个家里起码两个，甚至还有更多的”。
Zhang Guoguo in the first line of experience, in the hospital fewer people, but before is one patient after another, now as a family unit, "whole, whole infected, a family of at least two, or even more."
他说，1月28日又送了十几趟，起码有一半是“整家”。
On January 28, he said, there were more than a dozen deliveries, at least half of which were "whole homes."
王刚和王燕的体会也是一样。
Wang Gang and Wang Yan experience the same.
王刚说，在1月28日，接到报警后，他们前往汉口的一个三口之家。
On January 28, they went to a family of three in Hankou after being called to the police, Wang said.
因为床位很少，他们此前居住在家，终于等到了床位，王刚就问他们，哪个是病人？没想到，三人都是。
Because of the small number of beds, they had lived at home until finally, Wang Gang asked them, which is the patient? Unexpectedly, all three are.
“我们救护车上一车的人，都愣了一下”，王刚说。
"The people in our ambulance were stunned for a moment," Wang said.
“医务同志病倒了”救护车上，见证了太多不幸。
"Medical comrade fell ill" on the ambulance, witnessed too much misfortune.
王刚记得，他在汉口接送的一对花甲老人，走路都很难了。
Wang Gang remembers that he picked up a pair of flower-nail old man in Hankou, walking is very difficult.
老太太已经确诊，但是找不到医院收治。
The old lady was diagnosed but could not be found in hospital.
王刚将他们送到汉口医院，按理医院是不能推的，“但他们有没有找到床位，我也不能知道了”。
Wang just sent them to Hankou Hospital, according to the reason that the hospital can not push, "but whether they have found beds, I can not know."
现实不容盲目的乐观。
Reality does not allow blind optimism.
医院满了，病人一般只在门诊打个针，没有办法住院。
Hospitals are full, patients generally only make injections in the outpatient department, there is no way to hospitalize.
“一人一个隔离房间”的目标，还远没有实现。
The goal of "one person, one room in isolation" is far from being achieved.
王刚对花甲老人的记忆很深，是因为老太太的病况严重，而老头在一旁着急大哭。
Wang Gang has a deep memory of the old man, because the old lady's illness is serious, and the old man is anxious to cry.
他担心老伴的身体，怕医院没有床位，“住不进去就是要命的”。
He worried about his wife's health, afraid of the hospital bed, "can not live in it is deadly."
同时，他又害怕让小区的人知道，急得不行。
At the same time, he was afraid to let the community know, anxious can not.
目前形势下，出现了典型症状，被外界知道以后，会被采取严格的防护措施。
Under the current situation, the typical symptoms, known to the outside world, will be taken strict protective measures.
它也导致了一定的精神压力。
It also causes some mental stress.
王刚就遇到过故意隐瞒症状的病人。
Wang Gang has encountered patients who deliberately hide symptoms.
“我们去接病人，有些人不愿意说清楚，好多人就不说自己是发烧的，结果送到了医院急诊科，他才对医生说发烧了”。
"We went to pick up the patients and some people didn't want to say clearly that they had a fever, so they went to the emergency department of the hospital and he told the doctor that he had a fever.
王刚说，他只能将这种心理理解为，“不重视自己的生命”。
Wang Gang said that he can only understand this mentality as, "do not value their own lives."
张静及同事们护送患者进入医院大楼（摄影：远征、高星）实际上，有所隐瞒的病人，还危害到救护车上的医护人员。
Zhang Jing and her colleagues escorted the patients into the hospital building (photo: expedition, Gao Xing). In fact, there was some concealment of the patients, but also endangered the ambulance medical staff.
救护车人员出车时，根据警情电话中的病人类型，有不同的标准。
Ambulance personnel travel, according to the type of patient in the police phone, there are different standards.
有典型症状的，他们严装出发。
If they have typical symptoms, they set out in strict attire.
如果是一般病人，标准就低些。
In the case of a normal patient, the standard is lower.
另外，张国介绍说，如果是发烧病人，他们会先给病人带好口罩。
In addition, Zhang said that in the case of fever patients, they will first bring patients with a mask.
不难发现，如果病人隐瞒症状，会让医务人员的防护不足。
It is not difficult to find that if the patient conceals symptoms, medical staff will be inadequate protection.
同时自身的防护不足，令一整个救护车成为高危环境。
At the same time their own inadequate protection, so that an entire ambulance into a high-risk environment.
为了应对，目前的各救护车已经配备了红外线体温计。
In response, ambulances are now equipped with infrared thermometers.
然而，还是有救护车上的医务人员“倒了”。
However, medical staff on the ambulance "collapsed."
王燕说，她所在的医院院区，“现在好多医生、护士都倒了。
"Many doctors and nurses have collapsed," Wang said, referring to her hospital compound.
我们院要从二线的分院调人，把一些精神科的医生，社区医院的护士，抽调到一线来”。
Our hospital will be transferred from the second line of the hospital, some psychiatrists, community hospital nurses, to the front line. "
仅她知道的，武汉120急救中心里，有两名司机已经“倒了”。
As far as she knows, two drivers at Wuhan's 120 emergency center have "collapsed."
他们在1月28日晚6点时发高烧，目前正在医院隔离治疗。
They had a high fever at 6 p.m. on 28 January and are currently in isolation in the hospital.
救护车奔赴之地，是“一线中的一线”，病人不确定性很大，但防护措施尚有弊病。
Ambulance to the place, is "a line in the line," patients are very uncertain, but there are shortcomings in protective measures.
王刚说，在最忙的时候，他们顾不上一些环节。
'At the busiest times, they don't take care of some aspects, 'Mr. Wang says.
比如消毒，按照规定，救护车回来后，要进行至少40分钟的消毒，最好的则是60分钟。
For example, disinfection, the ambulance is required to return after a minimum of 40 minutes of disinfection, the best is 60 minutes.
但是，王刚形容，在疫情开始爆发时，“医院的人进进出出，车水马龙似的”。
However, Wang Gang described the outbreak of the outbreak, "the people in and out of the hospital, like a traffic."
同时还有大量病人在家，需要转送医院。
There are also large numbers of patients at home who need to be transferred to hospitals.
后来，交通管制了，救护车成为几乎唯一的途径。
Later, traffic control, the ambulance became almost the only way.
他们根本接不过来。
They can't even get through.
呼救铃响起，两位医护搭档再次启程（摄影：远征、高星）“在车上的病人，有呕吐的，有咳嗽的。
The call bell rang and the two medical partners set out again. The patient in the car had vomited and coughed
但是到了消毒环节，有时才二三十分钟，120就催着赶紧出车”，王刚说。
But when it comes to disinfection, sometimes only 20 or 30 minutes, 120 rush to get out of the car, "Wang said.
他们直面大量的病人，消毒环节不到位的话，救护车可能成为一辆传播病毒的“毒车”。
They face up to a large number of patients, disinfection links are not in place, ambulances may become a spread of the virus "poison car."
同时，医务人员在24小时的工作制中，体力透支严重。
At the same time, medical staff are severely overworked during the 24-hour working day.
身处这样的环境，隐患极大。
In such an environment, the danger is enormous.
现在，救护车人员中已有感染，王燕不能不担心，她的家属尤其如此。
Now that the ambulance crew is infected, Wang Yan cannot help worrying, especially her family.
“亲戚、爱人，每天都在嘱咐我，千万要小心。
"" Every day my relatives, my love, tell me to be careful.
他们知道我是性格强硬的人，不会临阵退缩，只能言语关心我。
They know that I am a tough character, will not shrink from the war, only words care about me.
我都回复说，我知道，我知道”。
I replied, I know, I know. "
“救命服”仍然不够1月29日，王燕终于告别了24小时工作制。
"Help" is still not enough January 29, Wang Yan finally said goodbye to the 24-hour work day.
“现在很缺医务人员，如果我们的人倒了，就不再好找了。
"There's a shortage of paramedics, and if our people are down, they're not going to be easy.
站长也担心我们”。
The stationmaster worries about us, too.
她所在医院的两个院区，都有医护人员倒下了。
In both of her hospital compounds, paramedics collapsed.
现在，站长将两个站点，合并为一个站点。
Now, the stationmaster combines the two sites into a single site.
合并后，王燕的工作节奏，变成18小时四班倒，相对宽裕了些。
After the merger, Wang Yan's pace of work, into 18 hours four shifts, relatively comfortable.
同时，为了应对随时有人倒下，另外备着一队人员。
At the same time, in case anyone falls down at any time, another team is on hand.
“留着一个班的人，不论是医生、护士、司机，还是担架员，总要有人顶上”。
"Anyone who has a class, be it a doctor, a nurse, a driver or a stretcher, has to be on top."
武汉市急救中心某急救站工作人员合照 图源澎湃新闻此外，消毒环节也在改善。
Wuhan City first aid station staff pictured a photo source surging news, in addition, disinfection links are also improving.
王燕对站长提意见：“无论如何，一小时的消毒时间一定要保障”。
Wang Yan advised the stationmaster: "In any case, an hour of disinfection time must be guaranteed."
但是，压力也在变大，将救护过程规范后，也意味着运输能力降低。
But the pressure is also mounting, and regulating the ambulance process also means less transport capacity.
正在透支边缘的医务人员，无法迅速完成本就艰难的工作量。
Medical staff on the verge of overdraft are unable to complete their already difficult workload quickly.
另一名担架员吴强说：“关键是武汉现在没车了，只能叫120。
Another stretcher Wu Qiang said: "The key is Wuhan now no car, can only call 120.
病重也好，病轻也好，都需要救护车”。
Ambulances are needed for both serious and minor illnesses.
与此同时，防护物资依然告急。
Meanwhile, protection supplies remain in short supply.
救护车人员，对防护物资的需求巨大。
Ambulance personnel. The need for protective equipment is enormous.
和医院不同，他们每一次出车，都要定不同的标准。
Unlike hospitals, they set different standards for each trip they take.
接送发热病人是一套，接送其他病人是另一套。
The transfer of febrile patients is one set, and the transfer of other patients is another.
如果混穿，反而可能传染。
If mixed, it can be contagious.
也就是说，理想状态下，他们应该出一趟、换一套，但现实中远远不行。
In other words, ideally, they should go out and change, but in reality they are far from being.
张国说，他们一开始时，面罩和护目镜都没有。
Mr. Zhang said they started with no face mask or goggles.
直到现在，资源依然紧张，他将差的口罩一次性使用后扔掉，但对好的口罩，则要留着消毒，重复使用。
Until now, the resources are still tight, he will use the poor mask disposable thrown, but good mask, it should be saved disinfection, re-use.
防护服就更加稀缺，它是连体式的，一旦脱下来就不能使用。
Protective clothing is even scarcer. It is in a continuous position and cannot be used once taken off.
张国穿着它，在老式小区爬楼梯、抬病人，一趟下来，里头湿透。
Zhang Guoguo wearing it, in the old-fashioned community staircase, carrying patients, a trip down, drenched.
但他不可以撕开，因为它可能是这天的最后一件。
But he could not tear it open, for it might be the last of the day.
“知道它不多，千万别搞破了”，王刚想到的办法，是将防护服撕开一角，小心翼翼地将它脱下，送去消毒。
"Know it is not much, do not break," Wang just thought of the way, is to tear open a corner of the protective clothing, carefully take it off, sent to disinfect.
直到下次出车继续穿。
Keep wearing it until next trip.
在武汉市急救中心的消毒点为车辆和自己消毒完毕后，他们还要时刻准备着，去迎接下一场战斗（摄影：远征、高星）规范使用防护物资，反而成为一种奢望。
After disinfecting the vehicles and disinfecting themselves at the disinfection center of Wuhan city emergency center, they have to be ready for the next battle (photography: expedition, high stars) to regulate the use of protective materials, but become a luxury.
“不够、不够”，王燕说。
"Not enough, not enough," Wang said.
他们现在两个班子，都在设备科领东西，每天的防护服固定有30套。
They now have two teams, both in the Equipment Section, with 30 sets of protective clothing fixed daily.
远远不够，“我们接触的都是重症病人啊，那就是我们的救命服，但都不够”。
Not nearly enough. "We're dealing with patients who are seriously ill, and that's our life-saving suit, but not enough."
人也不够，物也不够，但还有很多病人在城中家中，他们不能不出发。
There were not enough people, there were not enough things, but there were many sick people in the city, and they could not help going.
他们用一些小技巧，以及精神力量顶着。
They do it with a little skill and mental strength.
在路上，来回奔驰，一趟又一趟。
On the way back and forth, one after another.
能顶多久？王燕没想过，她说：“我们没有一个同志退缩，除了病倒的同事，大家都冲锋陷阵在一线。
How long? Wang Yan did not think, she said: "None of our comrades flinched, except for the sick colleagues, everyone in the front line.
”（王燕、吴强、张国、王刚为化名）作者 | 南风窗高级记者 向由排版 | GINNY图片 |来源于新华社、腾讯医典、武汉晚报南风窗新媒体出品猜你还想看围观隔离的是病毒，而不是人心故事疫情凶猛，你还好吗？热文疫情中的真实湖北农村点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
"(Wang Yan, Wu Qiang, Zhang Guogang, Wang Gang) The senior South Window reporter at AT & amp; # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉现在的120，相当于一辆的士。
Wuhan now 120, equivalent to a taxi.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉现在的120，相当于一辆的士";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan, now 120, is the equivalent of & quot; a taxi & quot;;
var msg_desc = "一线，不只在医院，也在路上";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; a line, not only at the hospital, but also at & quot; on the road.
title: '隔离的是病毒，而不是人心',。
It was the virus that isolated, not AT & amp; P's service.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情凶猛，你还好吗？',。
Is it all right with you? & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情中的真实湖北农村',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
