我从武汉来，但我不是敌人。
I'm from Wuhan, but I'm not an enemy.
吕德文。
Lügwen.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
Play《武汉封城后的24小时，“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态》。
Wuhan, 24 hours after the closure of the city, "empty city" Wuhan prices, transportation, living conditions.
视频来源：@林晨同学Hearing我有点后悔离开武汉了。
Video source: @ Lin Chen classmate Hearing I have a little regret to leave Wuhan.
自从回到乡下，武汉的肺炎疫情很是让人揪心，过年也变得寡然无味，大家都心神不宁的。
Since returning to the countryside, Wuhan pneumonia epidemic is very disturbing, the New Year has become boring, we are worried about.
早知如此，还不如就留在武汉过年，还安心一些。
Know so early, it is better to stay in Wuhan to celebrate the New Year, still reassuring.
封城那天，网络上不断有人炫耀“逃离”武汉，我就觉得好笑。
On the day of the city's closure, I was amused by the constant display of "escape" from Wuhan.
疫情面前，有人想离开，有人想留下来；有人在当键盘侠，有人在默默尽一分力。
In the face of the epidemic, someone wants to leave, someone wants to stay, someone is working as a keyboard man, someone is doing their part in silence.
人生百态，倒也正常。
Life is normal.
昨晚和武汉一个拍纪录片的朋友电话上聊了一下，他说他也很想回去。
Last night, I had a phone conversation with a friend who made a documentary in Wuhan. He said he would like to go back, too.
我们有很多共同话题，确切地说在记录社会、理解社会的复杂性上，有很多共同语言。
We have a lot in common, or rather a lot in terms of documenting society and understanding the complexities of society.
武汉封了，我们很想知道个中情形，却进不去，我们都只能干着急。
Wuhan sealed, we would like to know the situation, but can not enter, we have to worry about.
1月23日，在武汉宏祥路生鲜市场，市民佩戴口罩有序在市场、超市等地购买生活物资回家过年是惯例，和疫情倒是没什么关系。
January 23, Wuhan Hongxiang Road, fresh market, the public wearing masks orderly in the market, supermarkets and other places to buy supplies for the New Year is the practice, and the epidemic is nothing to do with the epidemic.
我和妻子是1月20号（腊月二十六）晚上坐上火车回她湖南老家过年的。
My wife and I took the train back to her hometown of Hunan for the New Year on January 20th.
我们进武昌站，没有任何检测措施；候车大厅里，目测戴口罩的旅客也不到20%。
We entered Wuchang Station without any detection measures, and less than 20% of the passengers in the waiting hall were wearing masks.
火车上，我和妻子还讨论这次疫情，说武汉人真是淡定，连口罩都不带；但我们也觉得算是正常，只要没有人传人，问题就不大。
On the train, my wife and I also discussed the outbreak, saying that Wuhan people are really calm, even do not wear masks; but we also feel normal, as long as no one to the problem.
没想到，第二天一早回到家，钟南山接受采访，确认有人传人的消息铺天盖地传播开来。
Unexpectedly, the next morning back home, Zhong Nan Shan to be interviewed, confirmed that the news spread widely.
武汉的形势也迅疾紧张起来，且步步升级，全国各地的防疫措施也渐次开展。
Wuhan situation is also rapidly tense, and step by step upgrade, epidemic prevention measures throughout the country is also gradually launched.
这次河南的“硬核”防疫，因为开展得早，且措施得力，受到了舆论的一致好评。
This Henan "hard core" epidemic prevention, because of its early development and effective measures, has been well received by public opinion.
但全国绝大多数地方，防疫工作是陆续开展的。
But in most parts of the country, epidemic prevention has been carried out successively.
回来的第二天（1月21号）上午，福建老家的村干部就联系我，问我回家没，看来排查工作已经开展了。
The day after the return (January 21) morning, Fujian home village cadres will contact me, asked me to go home, it seems that the screening has been carried out.
但在湖南妻子老家，1月23号晚上，村干部才上门排查登记。
But in Hunan wife's hometown, January 23 evening, the village cadre only then door-to-door check and register.
村干部不知是不是为了不得罪我们，说是为了应付一下上级的任务，也没提醒说少出门之类的。
Village cadres do not know whether to not offend us, said is to cope with the higher level of the mission, also did not warn less to go out and so on.
岳父岳母早我们几天回乡，哪怕在我们回来后的几天，他们还忙于走亲戚，置办年货，群众并没有紧张感。
My father-in-law's mother and father returned a few days earlier. Even a few days after our return, they were busy visiting relatives and buying new year's goods.
我接到福建老家的信息后还感叹，怎么湖南还不赶紧防疫啊。
I received the information from Fujian home also lamented, how Hunan has not quickly epidemic prevention ah.
我和妻子也提醒岳父母，还是少出门，自我隔离的好——倒也不是担心我们自己，而是怕我们自己不自觉，反倒让别人不好办。
My wife and I also reminded our parents-in-law that it was better to leave home less and isolate ourselves - not to worry about ourselves, but to make others feel bad about ourselves.
按照年前的约定，大年三十，姑姑、叔叔们都和我们一起过年。
According to the agreement of the year before, aunt and uncle are with us to celebrate the New Year.
腊月29，妻子交代岳父母，还是和亲戚说清楚，要是有忌讳，就不一起过年了。
Lai 29, his wife told his parents-in-law, or to say clearly with relatives, if taboo, do not celebrate the New Year together.
从岳父母的角度说，怎么传达我们一家的意思，很是微妙。
From the parents-in-law's point of view, how to convey the meaning of our family is very delicate.
他们当然不好直接说大家不要来了，否则就是拒人于千里之外了；但也不能不表达我们的意思，毕竟我们是武汉回来的。
"Wuhan, after all, is the last place where we want to go.Wuhan, after all, is the place where we want to go.Wuhan, after all, is the place where we live.
第二天，大家还是聚在一起过年了。
The next day, we still get together for the New Year.
想来，这些都是至亲，即便心里有点忌讳，怕也不会主动取消家庭聚会。
Presumably, these are the closest relatives, even if a little taboo, afraid will not take the initiative to cancel family gatherings.
他们心里的微妙之处，估计和我们差不多。
The subtleties of their hearts are almost as great as ours.
尽在不言中吧，一家人，不见外。
Don't say a word, family. Not outside.
本来年初一是到两个舅舅家聚会的，在我们的建议下，大年三十晚上，岳母还是打了电话给舅舅，说聚会就取消吧，等过段时间再说。
At our suggestion, my mother-in-law phoned my uncle on the first day of the New Year and asked him to cancel the party until some time later.
意外却也算预料之中的是，大年初一，市政府发了关闭公共场所，要求人们不聚会、少出门的通知，且通报全市已出现3例患者。
Unexpectedly, on New Year's Day, the city government issued a notice to close public places, asking people not to meet, less to go out, and informed the city that there have been three cases of patients.
乡下气氛一下紧张起来了。
The atmosphere in the country became tense.
本来，大年初一会有不少舞龙灯的，结果一个也没有了，街上店铺也全关门了。
Originally, New Year's Day will have a lot of dragon lanterns, as a result of no one, the street shops are closed.
当然，往日热闹非凡的麻将馆也关门大吉了。
Of course, the mahjong halls of yore were closed.
1月23日，在湖南长沙一家老百姓大药房内，市民排队购买口罩岳父母家住在街上，街坊邻居都是熟人。
In Changsha, Hunan province, residents lined up to buy masks at their parents' homes on the street on January 23. Neighborhoods were acquaintances.
下午，岳父母因有事上街，结果旁人看到他们都低着头，躲得远远的。
In the afternoon, his parents-in-law went out on business, so others saw them all bow their heads and hide far away.
晚饭时分，听岳父母细声说起这个事，我可以感受到他们的复杂心情。
At dinner time, listening to the parents-in-law whisper about this matter, I can feel their mixed feelings.
我心里也五味杂陈，有点想掉眼泪。
I also have mixed feelings, a little want to shed tears.
他们常年在武汉帮我们带小孩，也就过年的时候能回来和街坊邻居、亲戚朋友说一说话，聚一聚。
They help us take care of our children in Wuhan all year round, so they can come back to talk with neighbors, relatives and friends, get together.
岳父很好面子，我们一直是他在家乡的骄傲；今年女儿上学后，他还在我的单位做后勤工作，自我感觉也不错。
My father-in-law is very respectable, we have always been proud of him in his hometown; this year after my daughter went to school, he also did logistics work in my unit, I feel good.
这次，岳父岳母回乡前准备了一段时间，收拾好了心情，准备舒舒服服过个年的。
This time, his father-in-law mother-in-law prepared for a period of time before returning home, gathered up the mood, ready to live comfortably for the next year.
没成想，突如其来的疫情，一切都化作泡影了。
Unexpectedly, the sudden outbreak of the epidemic, everything turned into a bubble.
我只能安慰他们，要理解大家，我们自觉一点就好。
I can only comfort them, to understand everyone, we are better aware of it.
只是，这种微妙的被排斥感，随着时间的推移越来越强烈。
It is only this subtle sense of exclusion that has grown stronger over time.
年初二一大早，女儿说想吃豆沙包。
Early in the morning, my daughter said she wanted to eat buns.
其实超市就在我们家隔壁，但岳父岳母硬是不敢出门。
In fact, the supermarket is next door to our house, but my father-in-law is afraid to go out.
电话打了半天，竟也找不到合适的人帮忙买或送货上门。
Telephone call for a long time, but also found no suitable person to help buy or deliver goods door to door.
平常，岳父岳母对孙女甚是疼爱，尤其是在吃饭方面，变着花样做，想吃什么都尽量满足。
Usually, his mother-in-law is very fond of her granddaughter, especially in the area of eating, changing patterns, trying to satisfy whatever she wants.
未曾想，就这么一个简单的豆沙包，他们也满足不了了。
Did not think, just such a simple bean buns, they can not be satisfied.
我感觉，他们受到的心理触动，应该不亚于前一天上街时的感受。
I felt as if they had been touched as they had been on the street the day before.
吃过早饭不久，岳母接到一个熟人的电话，问我们一家是不是到医院去检查了。
Shortly after breakfast, my mother-in-law received a phone call from an acquaintance asking if the family had gone to the hospital for an examination.
岳母说，村里有了针对我们一家的谣言了。
Mother-in-law said there was a rumor about our family in the village.
看来，我们一家在乡亲们的眼中，怕是和瘟神差不多了。
It seems that our family in the eyes of the villagers, I am afraid is similar to Misery.
我和妻子都不敢细问，也不太好再做解释。
Neither my wife nor I dared to ask, and it was not easy to explain.
只能说，这个时候我们得理解大家，毕竟大家不了解我们的情况。
All we have to say is, at this point, we have to understand everybody. After all, we don't know anything about us.
只不过，这种心理暗示怕是在外形中影响了岳父母的行为。
However, this kind of psychological implication is afraid in the shape of the parents-in-law's behavior.
中午的饭菜是岳母准备的，平常极其注意的她，竟然忽视了女儿不能吃辣，我也不怎么吃辣的情况。
At noon the meal is prepared by mother-in-law, the usual extremely attention to her, even neglected her daughter can not eat spicy, I do not eat spicy situation.
结果，我加炒了一盘胡萝卜炒肉。
As a result, I fried a plate of carrot scrambled meat.
饭后，岳母问岳父，还有没有新鲜排骨？岳父回答，还有的。
After dinner, his mother-in-law asked his father-in-law if there were any fresh ribs?
妻子说，一直吃青菜都不要紧。
His wife said it didn't matter if she ate vegetables all the time.
他们说这些话时很自然，但我在一旁听着，却有点恍然。
They said these words naturally, but I listened to them, but a little vaguely.
看来，大家都隐约在担心起日常生活来了。
There seemed to be a vague fear of everyday life.
家里储备的腊肉是够过年的，菜园子里的菜也比较充足，这是岳父和妻子有底气的地方。
We have enough bacon for the New Year and more food for the vegetable garden. This is where my father-in-law and his wife have a lot of energy.
但我和女儿喜欢吃新鲜菜，鲜肉怕是不够了，这应该是岳母担心的地方。
But my daughter and I like fresh food. Fresh meat is probably not enough. This should be the concern of my mother-in-law.
其实，中午炒菜时，我脑子还跳出一个问题，要是液化气没了怎么办？米不够了又怎么办？当然，我都没说出来。
In fact, at noon when cooking, my brain also jumped out of a problem, if the gas did not do? What if the rice is not enough? Of course, I did not say.
按照岳父岳母的做事风格，这在年前应该都是储备充足了的，我没必要担心的。
According to his father-in-law's style of doing things, this should have been full of reserves until the year before, I need not worry.
这几天在家隔离，我和妻子倒是还好，但岳父岳母的感受怕是不好。
Home isolation these days, my wife and I are fine, but his parents-in-law is afraid the feelings are not good.
岳母陪孙女，只是因为隔离，这也不是一个好差事。
Mother-in-law's granddaughter, just because of isolation, this is not a good job.
家里所有东西都玩遍了，小孩也不耐烦了，昨天下午我们只能妥协，让她看动画片。
Everything in the house played, the children are impatient, yesterday afternoon we had to compromise, let her watch cartoons.
一向好交往、爱面子的岳父，只能在楼上楼下走着，这里弄弄，那里看看，自我隔离，免得被乡亲们讨嫌。
The old face-loving father-in-law could only walk up and down the stairs, do it here, see there, isolate himself, and not be displeased with the villagers.
岳父岳母俨然成了当地社会的边缘人。
His father-in-law had become a marginal figure in local society.
这种体验，我可以感同身受，却未必能够真正理解其内心的震动。
This experience, I can empathize with, but may not really be able to understand its inner shock.
岳父岳母的这种体验，怕是很多从湖北，尤其是武汉出来的人共同的心理感受。
This kind of experience of father-in-law's mother-in-law is probably the common psychological feeling of many people from Hubei, especially Wuhan.
1月22日，汉口火车站，医护人员对进站旅客的体温进行检测我一位同学，也是大学教授，和我差不多时间离开武汉。
At Hankou Railway Station on January 22, medical staff tested the temperature of inbound passengers. A classmate of mine, a university professor, left Wuhan about the same time as me.
回到家乡后，很快就被登记排查了。
When I got back to my hometown, I was soon checked in.
并且，按当地街道和社区管理部门的要求，自觉隔离，每天测体温。
And, in accordance with the local streets and community management requirements, self-imposed isolation, daily temperature testing.
但就在大年三十的那一天，其姓名、身份证号和详细居住地址等都被泄露了，他家居住的小区和周边几个小区的业主群，天天都在疯狂传播其信息。
But on New Year's Eve, his name, identity card number and full address were leaked, and the owners of his neighborhood and several surrounding neighborhoods were frantically disseminating their messages every day.
传播着就变成了谣言，说他是感染者。
Propagation turned into a rumor that he was infected.
有几位邻居甚至上门劝说他家不要住在小区里。
Several neighbors even came to persuade his family not to live in the neighborhood.
他就是当地人，父母长期居住其中，大家平时都是低头不见抬头见的熟人关系，他本人和其父母所受到的压力，可想而知。
He was a native of the country, where his parents had lived for a long time. It was easy to imagine the pressure on him and his parents.
还有一位同学，同样是大学老师，仅仅是因为年底时来武汉开过一次会，其家人就甚是紧张，反复交代千万别说去过武汉，否则村民不知道会怎么看他们一家。
Another student, also a college teacher, came to Wuhan at the end of the year to have a meeting, his family is very nervous, repeatedly told not to say to Wuhan, otherwise the villagers do not know how to look at their family.
这几天，网络上不断传播各种“硬核”防控措施，最为普遍的是封村堵路。
In recent days, the network has continued to spread a variety of "hard core" control measures, the most common is blocking the village road.
人民群众的力量发动起来，当然是个好事，也是我们这个体制优越性的表现。
The mobilization of the masses is certainly a good thing and a sign of the superiority of our system.
只是，如今是一个大流动的社会，发动群众的社会基础也发生了改变。
However, in today's mobile society, the social basis for mobilizing the masses has changed.
一个从异乡回来的本乡人，突然之间成了故乡的敌人，不知是幸事还是祸事？一直以来，我们一家的身份认同其实是很清晰的。
A native from a foreign country, suddenly became the enemy of his homeland, I do not know whether it is a blessing or a curse? Our family identity has always been clear.
我是福建客家人，虽然在武汉生活了15年时间，却始终觉得自己是个异乡人。
I am the Hakka people in Fujian. Although I have lived in Wuhan for 15 years, I still feel that I am a foreigner.
妻子老家在湖南，在武汉逛街时，经常说某个路人讲的是家乡话，她当然也自我认同是湘人。
Wife home in Hunan, when shopping in Wuhan, often said that a passer-by is speaking the dialect, of course, she also identified herself as a Xiang.
前些年女儿出生时，在武汉上的户口。
Some years ago the daughter was born in Wuhan on the account.
我一直希望她是个福建人，但似乎有点不现实。
I had always wanted her to be a blessing, but it didn't seem realistic.
因为是外公外婆帮忙带的，一口湖南话。
Because maternal grandmother helped bring, a mouthful of Hunan dialect.
但要说她是个湖南人，却也名不正言不顺，毕竟是随我的姓。
But to say that she is a Hunan, but also the name is not obedient, after all, with my family name.
妻子就说，她就是武汉人。
His wife said that she was from Wuhan.
但我打心眼里不认可这个判断。
But I disapprove of the judgment in my heart.
我和妻子都把武汉当作异乡，总不能让女儿把他乡作故乡吧？而今，突然觉得自己就是武汉人。
My wife and I think Wuhan as a foreign country, can not let his daughter to his hometown, now, suddenly feel that they are Wuhan people.
武汉当地媒体有一句话，很是让我感动。
Wuhan local media have a sentence, very moved me.
“我们的城，我们来守”。
"Our city, we come to guard."
我们已经和武汉无法隔离，哪怕身体不在场，内心却一直在场。
We have and Wuhan can not be isolated, even if the body is not present, the heart has always been there.
作者 |武汉大学中国乡村治理研究中心研究员吕德文排版 | GINNY南风窗新媒体出品猜你还想看围观尖峰72小时，他们给一线医护送口罩故事当人类越界招惹了野味病毒热文确诊的妈妈，隔离的除夕夜点击购买最新一期《南风窗》。
Ru Devon, a researcher at Wuhan University's China Rural Governance Research Center, also wants to see a 72-hour peek at the peak. They send masks to front-line care workers. When humans cross the border and catch a mother diagnosed with wild virus, click on New Year's Eve to buy the latest issue of Window.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我从武汉来，但我不是敌人。
I'm from Wuhan, but I'm not an enemy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "我从武汉来，但我不是敌人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I'm from Wuhan, but I'm not enemy or quot;;
var msg_desc = "我们已经和武汉无法隔离，哪怕身体不在场，内心却一直在场";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we have never been able to separate ourselves from Wuhan, even though we were physically present at & quot;;
title: '尖峰72小时，他们给一线医护送口罩',。
At Rhino & apos; 72 hours, they brought face masks to front-line medical service.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '当人类越界招惹了野味病毒',。
When humanity overstepped its borders with game virus & apos;.
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '确诊的妈妈，隔离的除夕夜',。
AT & amp; # 39; s diagnosis mama, segregated New Year's Eve & amp; apos;
subject_name: '南风窗',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
