影视行业开启自救：复工不会拍大场面 积压剧红利很难说。
Film and television industry to start self-help: the resumption of work will not make a huge backlog of drama dividends hard to say.
刘燕秋。
Liu Yanqiu.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：横店影视城官方微博记者 ：刘燕秋“ 种种困境让这个行业过往的积弊都浮现了出来，但在困境中也不乏影视新势力带来的机遇。
Source: Hengdian Film and Television City official Weibo reporter: Liu Yanqiu "The difficulties of the past in this industry have emerged, but there are also many new film and television forces brought opportunities.
”横店复工模式难复制“我们复工的话可能要到2月底了，返回横店的离组员工还要隔离一段时间，反正已经停这么久，也不差这两天了。
"We may not get back to work until the end of February," Hengdian said. "There will be a period of isolation for the departing employees returning to Hengdian.
”在横店影视城拍摄的《清落》制片人陈益韬告诉界面文娱。
Chen Yitao, producer of "Cleaning Down," shot in Hengdian Film and Television City, told the interface.
复工消息总算让他舒了一口气。
The news of his return to work finally gave him a sigh of relief.
疫情“重灾区”影视行业正酝酿着复工计划。
Epidemic "serious disaster areas" film and television industry is brewing plans to resume work.
2月10日，横店影视文化产业集聚区管理办公室下发关于复工的指导意见，规定复工需经审批备案，复工时间原则上不得早于2月12日24时。
On February 10, the Hengdian Film and Television Industry Concentration Area Management Office issued guidance on the resumption of work, stipulating that the resumption of work must be approved and filed, in principle no earlier than 2400 hours on 12 February.
此前，受疫情影响，横店影视城发出剧组停拍通知，《大江大河2》《有翡》《传家》等各大剧组纷纷停工。
At the same time, when the Hengdian Film and Television Group stopped shooting due to the epidemic, there were interruptions in major studios such as "River 2," "There's a message" and "Hei Jie.
1月31日，中国广播电视社会组织联合会电视制片委员会下发了《关于新冠疫情期间停止影视剧拍摄工作的通知》，至此影视行业全面停工。
On January 31, the TV Production Committee of the China Federation of Radio and Television Social Organizations issued a notice on the cessation of filming during the New Crown Epidemic, bringing the film and television industry to a complete halt.
《清落》剧组去年11月下旬开机，刚拍了三分之一，1月27日，剧组就在疫情影响下停工。
The film crew, which opened in late November, had just filmed a third of the film, and on January 27 it shut down under the influence of the epidemic.
制片人陈益韬一度为此心焦，停工之后，他在微博上感叹，“只恨我刚有点钱可以投入到拍摄，又遇到一天亏五十万。
Producer Chen Yitao, who was worried for a while, lamented on his microblog, "Just hates the fact that I've just got some money to shoot, and I'm losing half a million dollars a day."
”“很多小的影视公司是扛不住的，只要有复工的消息传来，对影视界总是一个好消息。
"A lot of small film and television companies can't carry it, and it's always good news for the film industry as long as news gets back to work.
”慈文传媒创始人马中骏告诉界面文娱。
Ma Zhongjun, founder of Tzu Media, told the forum.
慈文传媒在筹备之中的项目有5、6个，开机之前正好赶上了新冠肺炎爆发，目前横店的项目正在恢复筹备。
Tzu Wen Media has five or six projects in the pipeline, just in time for the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, and the Hengdian project is resuming preparations.
“如果后续再有个别外来人员进入的话，还要等待通知，等到外来人员也可以复工时就可以开拍了。
"If there are a few more outsiders coming in, we'll have to wait until outsiders can get back to work.
”时间意味着金钱。
"Time means money.
陈益韬的另一重身份是影视公司华晨美创的创始人，对于很多类似的中小影视公司来说，尽早复工无疑能缓解资金压力，但人们也担心疫情尚未结束前复工是否会带来风险。
Chen's second identity as founder of film and television company Huachen is that for many similar small and medium-sized film and television companies, getting back to work early will undoubtedly ease the funding burden, but there are also concerns about the risks of resuming work before the epidemic is over.
“要求停工的时候，剧组中有大概20%的人员离组，80%的人待在横店隔离，离组的人返工要先隔离14天。
"When asked to stop working, about 20 percent of the crew left the group, 80 percent stayed in the crossshop, and those who left had to be quarantined for 14 days.
”陈益韬告诉界面文娱，复工需要符合一定的条件，比如剧组是否有足够口罩，还要考虑剧组的人数、有多少人员来自外地等。
Mr Chen told the forum that conditions needed to be met to resume work, such as whether the crew had enough masks and how many people from outside the theatre were considered.
图片来源：横店影视城官方微博根据横店影视城的《复工指导意见》，复工将分为三个阶段：第一阶段复工从2月13日开始，影视企业（剧组）员工春节期间均在本地的，未到过疫情严重地区、未与疫情严重地区人员接触过的，以及防控措施到位的重点影视企业（剧组），经审核通过后优先予以复工。
Photo Source: Hengdian Film and Television City Official Weibo According to Hengdian Film and Television City's "Return to Work Guidance," the resumption of work will be divided into three stages: the first stage of the resumption of work from February 13, film and television (drama) employees in local areas, not serious epidemic areas, and prevention and control measures in place key film and television enterprises (drama group), after approval priority.
第二阶段复工时间根据疫情防控形势确定。
Second stage resume work according to the situation of disease prevention and control.
第三阶段复工时间定在疫情防控措施解除后，恢复正常拍摄。
The resumption of work in the third phase of the disease control measures after the release of normal shooting.
横店影视管理服务有限公司总经理赵永清在接受采访时透露，目前横店影视城内有31个剧组，开机的有20部，正在筹备的有11部，总人数大约在五千人，经初步估计能够在一周内顺利复工的最多只有一两个。
Zhao Yongqing, general manager of Hengdian Film and Television Corporation, revealed in an interview that at present there are 31 studios in Hengdian Film and Television City, 20 are on and 11 are being prepared, with a total of about 5,000 people, with at most one or two expected to get back to work smoothly within a week.
在马中骏看来，第一批复工的剧组一直待在横店，隔离14天之后，在没有外来人员的基础上进行部分剧组的复工，这种做法还是比较谨慎。
In Ma's view, the first reinstated crew has been in the Hengdian store, 14 days after isolation, on the basis of no outsiders on the basis of partial return to work, this approach is more cautious.
陈益韬也认为，现在的小规模复工基本上可以做到充分隔离，“复工之后我们也不会拍大场面，还得再观望观望。
Mr Chen also believes that today's small-scale workers can be largely isolated and that "when we get back to work we don't have to take big pictures and have to wait and see again."
”剧组复工能在一定程度上缓解行业窘境，但横店之外的剧组什么时候能复工还没有消息。
Restarting the cast would go some way towards alleviating the industry's woes, but there is no word as to when the cast outside the Hengdian District will be able to resume work.
一家影视公司告诉界面文娱，公司1月份在福建开拍的剧集在2月份停拍了，预计要到3、4月份才能复工。
A film and television company told the show that its January show in Fujian had stopped filming in February and was not expected to resume work until March or April.
由于之前拍摄的剧集和网络电影数量较多，这些项目的发行时间已经准备提前。
Due to the large number of previous episodes and online films, the release of these projects has been prepared in advance.
一位影视公司的艺人经纪也对界面文娱透露，公司签约的演员都还在家中休息，那些在暂停拍摄剧组的演员也还没有复工安排。
An entertainer broker for a film and television company also revealed to the entertainment industry that the company's contracted actors were still at home and that those who were on set to suspend filming had yet to resume work.
暂时来说，横店模式很难复制到其他区域。
For the time being, the horizontal mode is hard to replicate to other areas.
马中骏觉得，横店影视城相对封闭，可以在一个区域里设置进出限制，但对于那些在城市里面筹备的剧组来说，复工还是有难度。
Ma feels the Hengdian Film and Television City is relatively closed, allowing access restrictions to be set in an area, but it is difficult for those in the city to get back to work.
“现在还是要看疫情的进展，如果疑似病例几乎出尽，那拐点也就快到了。
"It's still up to us to see how the epidemic progresses, and if the suspected cases are almost over, the inflection point will be close.
”行业洗牌，市场信心受挫，积压剧红利？疫情之下，受到冲击最大的还是电影行业。
Industry shuffles, markets lose confidence and a backlog of drama dividends? The film industry is hardest hit by the epidemic.
自1月24日起，上海电影旗下直营影院“SFC上影影城” 已全部暂停营业，联和院线旗下加盟影院已基本全部暂停营业。
Since January 24, the Shanghai Film's direct cinema "SFC Shadow City" has all been suspended, and the affiliated theaters of the Union Line have been basically suspended.
2月7日，横店影视也发布公告称，公司旗下影院已于1月24日起全部暂停营业。
On February 7, Hengdian Film and Television also issued a notice that the company's theaters have been suspended since January 24.
在影视金融服务从业者刘蕾看来，这次疫情会加速影院和院线行业的洗牌。
Liu Lei, a film and television financial services practitioner, said the outbreak would hasten a reshuffle in cinemas and film industries.
“很多中小影院现金流已经断了。
"Many small and medium-sized theaters cash flow has broken down.
给影院和院线做过融资的诸多金融机构发现，这些公司经营非常困难，所以也在考虑贷款展期和后续的资产管理问题。
Many financial institutions that have raised money for cinemas and theaters have found it difficult for them to operate, and are considering loan renewals and subsequent asset management issues.
”相较于头部公司，中小企业的处境将更为艰难。
Small and medium-sized companies will be in a more difficult position than head companies.
根据北京师范大学文化创新与传播研究院最近的调查，在2136家大中小微北京文化企业之中，78.9%的受访企业处于完全停工状态。
According to a recent survey by the Institute of Cultural Innovation and Communication of Beijing Normal University, 78.9 percent of the 2,136 large, medium and small-sized cultural enterprises in Beijing were completely shut down.
开复工率和企业体量关联度较大，近九成微型及初创企业完全停工。
The rework rate and the enterprise volume correlation degree are bigger, nearly 90% microenterprises and start-ups completely shut down.
超四成受访企业认为本次疫情的影响非常严重，事关企业生存。
More than 40% of the enterprises interviewed think the impact of the epidemic is very serious, affecting the survival of enterprises.
三成表示会导致企业生存困难，在很长时间内无法恢复。
Thirty percent said it would cause companies to survive and not recover for a long time.
图片来源：首都文化智库在陈益韬眼中，在中国，影视公司创业简直就是地狱模式。
Source: Capital Cultural Think Tank In the eyes of Chen Yi-tao, startup in China is a hell of a business.
除了头部百分之一的公司，下面的公司基本上都是农民工的待遇，制片公司的利润是所有环节中最薄的，却扛着最大的风险。
With the exception of one per cent of the heads of companies, the following companies are essentially migrant workers, and the profits of the production companies are the thinnest of all but carry the greatest risks.
不过，他相信这次可以顺利度过困境。
But he believes he can pull through this time.
他曾算过一笔账，停工15天要损失850万，这当中包括剧组员工的路费报销、滞留在横店员工住宿、吃饭等生活保障费用以及增设B组的费用。
He counted 8.5 million lost 15 days of shut-down, which included reimbursement of travel expenses for crew members, living expenses such as staying at a crossbar, eating meals and the cost of adding a second group.
幸运的是，情况正在好转。
Fortunately, things are getting better.
“包括横店影视集团在内的所有乙方都给我们免掉了疫情期间的费用，出品方优酷也询问了我们的预估损失，先支付了中期款。
"All of Party B, including Hengdian Film and Television Group, spared us the expenses during the epidemic, and the producer, Youku, asked about our estimated losses and paid the interim payment first.
各方都帮我们分担了一点，损失就可控了。
All sides helped us share a little, and the loss was manageable.
”陈益韬预估，目前的损失在100万之内，“这部剧还是会有利润，只是少赚一点”。
Mr Chen estimated that with a current loss of about $1m, "the show will still be profitable, just a little less."
最近，他还代表剧组买了6500个口罩捐到口罩告急的河南信阳。
Recently, he also bought 6,500 masks on behalf of the group and donated them to Henan Xinyang, where the mask is in urgent need.
一场影视行业的自救已经开启。
A film industry self-help has been opened.
2月1日，横店影视城宣布，为尽量减少各剧组和演员的损失，承诺在停拍期间，下属所有拍摄基地、摄影棚费用全免，剧组在旗下各酒店的费用减半，并向在横店的演员公会前景群演和普通群演每人提供一个月的300元租房补贴和200元生活补贴。
On February 1, Hengdian Film and Television announced that to minimize the loss of the various studios and actors, it promised to reduce the costs of all its studios and studios by 50 per cent during the period of suspension. It also offered a monthly rental subsidy of $300 and a subsistence allowance of $200 to each of the Actors Guild Performers Guild.
与此同时，北京电影协会、贵州电影放映行业协会、福建省电影家协会等机构也发布声明，呼吁物业减免电影院房屋租金。
At the same time, the Beijing Film Association, Guizhou Film Screening Industry Association, Fujian Film Association and other organizations issued statements calling for property rental relief cinema.
但并不是所有人都像陈益韬一样幸运。
But not everyone is as lucky as Mr Chen.
不能开工的中小影视公司首先面临的就是资金压力。
Small and medium-sized film and television companies can not start the first face is capital pressure.
特别是在目前的形势之下，平台的回款账期越来越长，制作方的垫资压力就越来越大。
Especially in the current situation, the platform's payback period more and more long, producers of funds under increasing pressure.
在刘蕾看来，很多的影视公司本身就资金吃紧，现在能开机的已经算是资质不错的公司了，一旦中途停拍一两个月，如果放在行业资金充足的时候，可能还会撑得下去，但在目前的状况下就会面临生存危机。
In Liu Lei's view, many of the film and television companies themselves tight funds, can now be started by qualified companies, once a month or two, if the industry is well-funded, may survive, but in the current situation will face a crisis of survival.
“给平台做定制剧的情况还好一点，纯做版权剧的没有金主支持，还是比较困难，有可能头部公司也会受影响。
"The situation is a little bit better for the platform, pure copyright drama without financial support, or more difficult, it is possible that the head of the company will be affected.
”剧荒或许会在今年三、四季度来袭。
The famine may hit in the third or fourth quarter of this year.
“前段时间开机的大都是头部剧，视频平台由于在线上播出还可以调节，但很多电视台已经把档期预留出来了，目前的情况会比较考验电视台的排播能力。
"Some time ago, the power-up is mostly head play, video platform can be adjusted because of online broadcast, but many TV stations have reserved the slot, the current situation will be more testing television broadcast capacity.
”刘蕾判断。
"Judge Liu Lei.
不过，在她看来，疫情对剧集行业也有利好，特别是对于华策和欢瑞世纪这种库存量较高的公司。
However, in her view, the epidemic is also good for the show industry, especially for companies with high inventories such as Huatse and Huarui Century.
但在马中骏看来，积压剧迎来红利期的说法依据性不强，“卖不动的项目还是卖不动”。
But in Ma's view, the backlog drama ushered in a dividend period is not based on a strong basis, "can not sell the project or not sold."
“电视台、视频平台都还是要播品质好的剧，这样才会有收视率、流量和广告。
"Television stations and video platforms still have to broadcast high-quality dramas so there are ratings, traffic and advertising.
从理论上说是会带来剧荒，但一线卫视也就这么五家，今年播出的项目一般在去年会有储备和规划。
Theoretically it will bring the famine, but the first-line satellite TV just so five, this year's broadcast projects will generally have reserves and planning last year.
三家视频平台大量播出的都是自制的项目，渴求的也还是一线的项目。
Three video platforms broadcast a large number of homemade projects, but also eager for the first line of projects.
”马中骏透露，限古令的影响还在持续，只要政策不放开，部分古装剧还是会受到影响。
Ma said the impact of the ancient restrictions is still ongoing, as long as the policy is not liberalized, some ancient costume drama will still be affected.
目前，慈文传媒没有积压剧临近排播。
At present, Tzu Wen media has no backlog drama near the rehearsal.
《青春有你2》因疫情暂停录制受到疫情冲击的还有综艺领域。
"Youth with you 2" due to the suspension of recording due to the epidemic has also been affected by the field of comprehensive arts.
据中信证券传媒研究，2020年正月初一至初六，综艺有效播放量下跌29.62%，这主要是由于疫情影响下电视综艺《快乐大本营》《王牌对王牌》等暂停上线。
According to CITIC Securities Media Research, effective broadcasting of variety shows fell 29.62% between the first day of the first month and the sixth day of the second half of 2020, mainly due to the suspension of TV variety "Happy Base Camp" and "ace versus trump card" due to the epidemic.
刘蕾认为，综艺领域影响最大的其实是市场信心。
Liu Lei believes that the most influential variety field is in fact market confidence.
综艺的商业模式是先找到冠名商，一方面，电视台和视频平台前期已经和广告商签订了合同，钱已经支付了，在疫情影响下，这部分金额需要跟广告商重新核算，而从更长远的角度看，疫情会影响到未来的市场信心。
On the one hand, TV stations and video platforms have already signed contracts with advertisers and the money has already been paid, which will need to be re-calculated with advertisers in the face of the epidemic, which will affect future market confidence in the longer term.
“这次疫情其实对快消、汽车一类的实体行业冲击很大，当这些行业自己的现金流受到影响，也可能会砍掉一部分广告投放预算。
"The epidemic is really hitting hard at fast-moving, real-world industries such as automobiles, which may also slash some of their advertising budgets when their own cash flow is affected.
"疫情让寒冬中的影视行业雪上加霜，马中骏希望政府能针对影视行业再出台一些利好政策。
& quot; The epidemic has worsened the film and television industry in the winter, and Mr Ma hopes the government will reintroduce some positive policies for the film industry.
一方面，他希望对题材的限制不那么严控，这样可以增加行业的可容性和活跃度，此外，在他看来，很多企业收不到应收账款已经是行业的老大难问题，出台针对影视行业的扶困政策将有利于行业健康发展。
On the one hand, he hoped that the subject matter restrictions would be less restrictive, which would increase tolerance and activity in the industry. In addition, in his view, the inability of many enterprises to collect accounts receivable was a long-standing problem in the industry, and the introduction of a poverty alleviation policy for the film and television industry would be conducive to healthy industry development.
积弊和机遇面对可能出现的剧荒，陈益韬希望国家能出台相关政策鼓励影视公司多立项。
Accumulation and Opportunity Faced with the possibility of a dramatic shortage, Chen hoped that the State can introduce relevant policies to encourage film and television companies to set up more projects.
他也不认同现在行业内“去库存”的说法，在他看来，库存剧大都是卖不掉的剧。
He also disagrees with the current industry "destocking", in his view, inventory drama is mostly unsold drama.
“让品质差的公司活下来那不是危害影视行业嘛，资本催生了大量不专业的人涌入影视制作的各个环节，行业本来就产能过剩。
"It's not harmful to the film industry to keep bad companies alive. Capital breeds a flood of unprofessional people into every aspect of film and television production, which is already overworked."
”影视寒冬、疫情之下影视公司的危机……种种困境也让行业过往的积弊都浮现了出来。
"Film and television cold winter, film and television companies under the crisis...... all kinds of difficulties also let the past abuses of the industry emerge.
陈益韬经历了影视行业从人傻钱多转为萧条暗淡的周期。
Chen Yitao went through a period in which the film and television industry went from silly money to depression.
在成立华晨美创之前，他做的是IP生意，卖过《芸汐传》《恶魔少爷别吻我》等爆款IP，当影视行业进入寒冬期，他突然发现卖IP不赚钱了。
Before the founding of Hua Chen, he did IP business, sold Sunseeker, "Devil Master do not kiss me" and other explosive IP, when film and television industry into the winter period, he suddenly found that selling IP did not make money.
之前的生意不好做了，他就拿出储备的优质IP进行改编，成立公司自己拍摄。
Before the business is not good, he took out the high-quality IP reserve for adaptation, set up the company to shoot.
两年多时间里，他从成本较低的甜宠剧切入，凭借买卖IP积累下的对项目和市场的判断力，《奈何boss要娶我》《一夜新娘》两个项目都算得上细分领域的爆款。
For more than two years, he cut through the lower-cost sweet act and, thanks to his accumulated judgment of the project and the market through the IP deal, "How to Marry Me" and "The Bride of the Night" were two of the big breakdowns.
“过去热钱太多，大家对利润率追求太高，这对于行业反而是一种伤害。
"Too much hot money in the past and too high profit margins are hurting the industry," he said.
一些单集投资两百万的剧卖到一千万，这本身就不正常，这些公司一旦有一部剧被套牢就会陷入困境。
It's not normal in itself for some single episodes to sell for $10 million for a million dramas, and these companies get stuck if one gets stuck.
”虽然三大平台联合发布了限薪令，但在陈益韬看来，目前划定的5000万片酬底线还是过高，影视生产制作其他环节赚到的钱还不到演员薪资的零头。
Although the three platforms have jointly issued pay limits, Mr Chen believes the current minimum of $50m is still too high and the rest of the film industry is making less than a fraction of an actor's pay.
图片来源：《囧妈》官方剧照但在危机之中也不乏影视新势力带来的机遇。
Source: Official shots of "Jomo" but there are also opportunities for new film and television forces in the midst of the crisis.
春节档影片集体撤档催生了《囧妈》和字节跳动之间的合作，给视频平台主导的网络院线的发展提供了契机。
The collective withdrawal of Spring Festival filmmakers has spawned a collaboration between Jung Ma and byte beats, providing an opportunity for the development of video-platform-led networks.
此后，甄子丹主演的院线新片《肥龙过江》也在爱奇艺和腾讯视频首映，和《囧妈》的免费模式不同，后者旨在推广电影的付费超前点映模式。
Since then, Donnie Yen's new blockbuster, Fat Dragon Crossing, has also premiered in Aikido and Tencent videos, in contrast to the free version of "Jung Ma," which aims to promote pay-as-you-go mode.
因疫情而推动的电影超前点映模式有可能在国内常态化吗？在马中骏看来，因《囧妈》网络首播而引发的争论几年前就在好莱坞出现了，但他相信，新媒体播放是一个趋势，未来相当多电影可以选择在网络首播，从而和院线放映形成“两条腿”走路的态势。
In his view, the controversy over the premiere of "Jomo" came up in Hollywood a few years ago, but believes that new media broadcasting is a trend, and that in the future quite a few films can choose to premiere on the Web, creating a "two-legged" walk with theaters.
“字节跳动用《囧妈》来吸引人们关注它的长视频业务，这是一个偶然事件，但《肥龙过江》的付费点播反倒是能代表未来趋势。
"The byte jump was a fluke to draw attention to its long video business, but Fat Dragon's pay-per-view is a proxy for future trends.
奈飞开创了网络平台的收费模式，国内视频网站收费模式的普及是早晚的事情。
Neifei set up the network platform charging model, domestic video website fee model is the popularity of sooner or later.
”《肥龙过江》这样的腰部影片之外，马中骏觉得，头部影片也可以在网络院线上映。
In addition to waist films like "Fat Dragon Crossing the River," Ma felt the film could also be shown online.
未来去电影院可能更多是看一些视觉、听觉冲击力较强的影片，《囧妈》这样适合家庭观看的影片既可以在院线看，也可以在网上看，不会受到太大影响，而且随着5G的普及，视频更流畅，屏幕越大，视听效果也会更好。
Future visits to cinemas are likely to be more visual and auditory, and home-friendly films like "Jock Mom" can be viewed on both the campus and the Internet without much impact, and with 5gigabytes becoming more popular, videos flow more smoothly, and the audio-visual effects are better.
“奈飞投资的《爱尔兰人》主要播放渠道就是在网络。
"The main channel for Nifei's Irish investment is online.
导演、演员的分量这些其实不是决定因素，如果点击量不输院线，电影为什么不能在网络院线播出呢？现在主要影响因素还是收视习惯。
Director, actor weight These are not the decisive factors, if the number of hits do not enter the hospital line, why can't the film broadcast in the network line? Now the main factor is watching habits.
”图片来源：中信证券传媒研究全民宅在家也给了人们更多在视频网站消磨的闲暇。
Source: CITIC Securities Media Research Home Home also gives people more leisure to spend on video sites.
根据中信证券传媒研究，从全平台情况来看，2020年正月初一至初六，剧集有效播放量上涨11.71%。
According to CITIC Securities Media Research, from the whole platform, the first day of the first month of 2020 to the sixth day of the sixth, the effective broadcast of the drama increased 11.71%.
爱奇艺和芒果TV在剧集方面分别上涨36%和101%，从整体电影有效播放量来看，爱奇艺破4亿，腾讯视频破2亿，西瓜视频凭借《囧妈》达到4300万。
Aikido and Mango TV rose 36 percent and 101 percent, respectively, while Edge broke 400 million, Tencent broke through 200 million videos and made 43 million hits with "Jock Mom."
而随着上游内容生产还未大规模复工，未来一段时间各大平台对于内容版权的争夺将会加剧。
And with upstream content production has not yet returned to work on a large scale, the major platforms for content copyright will intensify in the coming period.
在最近英国广播公司BBC举办的Showcase 2020上，BBC Studios宣布与优酷达成英剧内容合作协议，多部口碑英剧将在之后几个月陆续在优酷上线。
BBC News 2020, in which BBC Studios announced a partnership agreement with Youku on the content of a British play, many of which will come online in the coming months.
协议内容包括延长《神探夏洛克》全四季的授权，以及总计超过80个小时的电视剧内容，包括《好兆头》、《桑迪顿》、最新一季的《神秘博士》等。
The deal includes an extension of Shylock's four seasons and a total of more than 80 hours of television shows, including "Good Signs," "Sandyton," and "The Mystery Doctor," the latest season.
在突然爆发的疫情之下，行业格局会发生微妙变化，但更多普通从业者能做的只是静待行业回温。
In the case of a sudden outbreak, the pattern of the industry changes subtly, but more ordinary workers can simply wait for the industry to return.
编剧赵珣曾操刀过网剧《最好的我们》，她告诉界面文娱，影院会怎样、积压的片子会怎样、资金链会怎样、后续项目的档期、人员安排会怎样，这些肯定很多人都预估到了，但这些判断现在都是基于逻辑得来，只要疫情拐点还没来，就没有人能给出明确的答案。
The screenwriter Zhao Zedong, who played the dagger "The Best of Us," told the interviewers what cinema would be like, what the backlog would be, what the funding chain would be, the slotting schedule and staffing of future projects, but these judgments are now based on logic and no one can give a clear answer as long as the inflection point of the epidemic has not yet arrived.
“那就先干好手上的活儿等待吧。
"Well, then, do your work and wait.
”赵珣说。
"said Zhao.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
影视行业开启自救：复工不会拍大场面 积压剧红利很难说。
Film and television industry to start self-help: the resumption of work will not make a huge backlog of drama dividends hard to say.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "影视行业开启自救：复工不会拍大场面 积压剧红利很难说";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "种种困境让这个行业过往的积弊都浮现了出来，但在困境中也不乏影视新势力带来的机遇。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
