意大利温商的“闯关”之旅：海外个人捐赠为何如此难？。
Italy's Winners' Journey: Why are Overseas Personal Donations so Difficult?
王磬。
Chime with Wang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图虫记者：王磬“ “需要打通至少4个关卡，捐赠者需准备至少12份文件……我们走完一遍之后就感觉到，原来海外个人想捐赠，是这么难的一件事。
"We need to get through at least 4 levels and donors need to prepare at least 12 documents," he said. "After walking through it, we realized that it was so difficult for individuals from overseas to donate.
””1月份的最后一天，侨居威尼斯的温州商人倪仲波在朋友圈里看到一条消息：阿里巴巴为防疫物资开通了全球免费运输的菜鸟绿色通道，但该热线暂不接受个人捐赠。
"On the last day of January, Ni Zhongbo, a Wenzhou businessman living in Venice, saw a news story in his friends' circle: Alibaba has opened a free global green passage for epidemic prevention goods, but the hotline does not accept individual donations.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发之后，中国各省市政府联合企业对接了不少海外采购资源，但甚少有针对个人的捐助渠道。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Chinese provincial and municipal conglomerates have tapped many overseas sources of procurement, but few have targeted individual donors.
“想捐、但不知道怎么捐”成为诸多心系疫情的海外个人捐赠者共同面临的难题。
"Want to donate, but do not know how to donate" has become a common problem faced by many individual donors abroad concerned with the epidemic.
这种焦虑气氛也弥漫在海外温州人圈子里。
The anxiety also pervaded the Wenzhou community abroad.
倪仲波给另外几位在欧洲的温商朋友打了电话，很快敲定下来：成立一个横跨欧洲的公益物流小组，开辟一条针对个人捐赠者的“绿色通道”，定向帮助温商将防疫物资对接给温州。
Ni Zhongbo telephoned other warm business friends in Europe and was quick to finalise it: set up a trans-European pro bono logistics team, set up a "green channel" for individual donors to help Wenquan dock the epidemic prevention materials.
离武汉有900公里之遥的温州，是新冠肺炎疫情的重灾区之一。
Wenzhou, which is 900 kilometers away from Wuhan, is one of the hardest hit areas of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
截至2月14日，温州确诊感染新冠肺炎的人数累计达496例，是湖北之外的单个地级行政区中确诊病例最多的地方。
By February 14, 496 people had been diagnosed with pneumonia in Wenzhou, the highest number of confirmed cases in a single prefecture outside Hubei province.
有18万温州商户在武汉经商务工，春节返乡时带回了不少输入性病例。
There are 180,000 Wenzhou merchants in Wuhan business workers, the Spring Festival return to bring back a lot of imported cases.
但同时，有70万温州人侨居海外，他们利用从商的优势和遍布全球的老乡网络，在各国采购、运输、串联，成为海外援疫力量中“扫货能力”最强的一支。
But at the same time, 700,000 Wenzhou people live overseas, they use the advantages of business and the global network of townships, procurement, transportation, series, foreign aid in the force of the "sweep of goods" the strongest.
但即使对“神通广大”的温商们来说，将物资捐赠回乡，也是一场艰难的闯关之旅。
But even for the "vast majority" of moderates, donating supplies home is a difficult journey.
“不捐物资、捐物流”倪仲波在意大利已经待了26年。
Ni Zhongbo, who donates materials and logistics, has been in Italy for 26 years.
他常年从事服装生意，现任威尼托（威尼斯所在大区）华侨华人工商联合会的执行会长。
He is the executive president of the Overseas Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Veneto (Venetian Region).
1月23日，浙江启动“重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应”的消息传来，在欧洲的温州人开始有些按捺不住。
On January 23, Zhejiang launched the "major public health emergency first-level response" news, Wenzhou people in Europe began to feel a bit irresistible.
倪仲波和朋友们也很快买了5000个口罩，通过DHL国际快递的方式寄回了温州老家。
Ni Zhongbo and his friends also quickly bought 5000 masks and sent them back to Wenzhou by DHL International Express.
倪仲波意识到，国内的情况是“缺物不缺钱”，所以要优先捐物，特别是一线需要的医用口罩、防护服和测温仪。
Ni Zhongbo realized that the domestic situation is "lack of money do not need money", so priority should be given to the donation, especially the first-line needs of medical masks, protective clothing and thermometers.
“海外的温州人不仅有较高的捐赠热情，也有独特的优势。
"The people of Wenzhou overseas not only have high enthusiasm for donation, but also have unique advantages.
”倪仲波告诉界面新闻。
Ni Zhongbo told the interface news.
温州人多从商，熟悉采购渠道，购买时可以直接联系厂商。
Wenzhou people from business, familiar with the procurement channels, purchase can be directly linked to the manufacturers.
与零售相比，能节省40-50%左右的价差。
Compared with retail sales, it can save about 40-50% of the price difference.
例如，一件防护服的零售价格在10欧元左右，批发价格仅为6欧元。
For example, the retail price of a suit is around 10 euros and the wholesale price is only 6 euros.
同时，由于开餐厅、超市的原因，温州商人遍布国外的各个小城镇。
At the same time, due to the opening of restaurants, supermarkets, Wenzhou businessmen throughout the small towns abroad.
与药店被中国人买空的大都市不同，小地方中国人往往很少、便于扫货，也不太会出现趁机加价或者断货的情况。
Unlike large cities where pharmacies are bought short by Chinese, small Chinese tend to be few, easy to sweep, and less likely to take advantage of price increases or stock cuts.
东西买到了，要怎么捐回国？对个体捐赠者来说，这并非水到渠成。
When something is bought, how do you donate it? For individual donors, it is not automatic.
物流难题首当其冲。
Logistics challenges are at the forefront.
阿里巴巴的菜鸟绿色通道是海外捐赠者最主要的免费运输途径，但它主要针对有出口资质的大宗机构捐赠。
Alibaba's Noodle Green Channel is the main free transportation option for overseas donors, but it targets major export-qualified institutions.
它特别声明“要把宝贵的运力留给更多救命物资”，因此“暂不接受个人捐赠运输”。
In particular, it declared that "precious capacity is to be left to more life-saving supplies" and therefore "does not accept individual donations for transport at this time."
如果采取国际快递业务如DHL、EMS进行邮递，则需要支付昂贵的物流费。
If the international express delivery business such as DHL, EMS postal delivery, will have to pay high logistics costs.
一箱价值1000欧元的口罩运费高达490欧元，普通人难以承担。
A case of 1,000 euros worth of masks costs 490 euros, which ordinary people cannot afford.
还有一种方式是“人肉冲关”——请熟人将物资装入行李带上客机——但是，自1月30日意大利宣布停飞中国所有客机航班之后，这也不再可能。
There is also the "human flesh clearance" - asking acquaintances to pack their bags and board the airliner - but this is no longer possible since January 30, when Italy announced that it would suspend all Chinese passenger flights.
倪仲波跟朋友们一合计，定下了公益小组的策略：“不捐物资，捐物流”。
Ni Zhongbo and friends a total, set a pro bono group strategy: "do not donate goods, donated logistics."
他们找到身边热心的温商朋友，募集了25万元人民币的启动资金，全部用于支付DHL的国际快递费用。
They found warm-hearted business friends around them and raised RMB 250,000 in start-up funds, all of which were used to pay for DHL international couriers.
个体捐赠者如果有意向给温州捐物，由公益小组来承担运费和对接物流。
If an individual donor intends to donate to Wenzhou, the public interest group will bear the freight and docking logistics.
具体的流程是：个人买到物资之后，小组会在DHL下单、并直接上门取货。
The specific process is: individuals buy the goods, the team will order in DHL, and directly pick up the goods door to door.
门对门的方式，可以省去集货到仓库的环节。
The door-to-door approach saves the chain of gathering goods to the warehouse.
小组规定，每箱物资的重量需要控制在20-100公斤之间，因此只针对个人的小额度捐赠，不接受机构的大宗捐赠。
The Panel stipulated that the weight of each box needed to be limited to between 20 and 100 kg, so that only small individual donations were made and no major donations from agencies were accepted.
“4个关卡”“12份文件”但免除运费还只是第一关。
"4 levels" "12 documents" but the free freight rate is only the first level.
包珊珊是倪仲波最早联系的温商朋友，也是公益小组的发起人之一。
Shan Bao is Ni Zhongbo's earliest contact WenShang friends, is also one of the sponsors of the public welfare group.
她从事跨境电商，常年在意大利与中国之间往返。
She worked as a cross-border electrician and spent many years commuting between Italy and China.
对国际物流的熟稔，让她很快摸清了跨国捐赠所需要的“闯关”步骤。
Her familiarity with international logistics allowed her to quickly map out the steps needed to cross-border donation.
包珊珊寄回国的第一批物资是定点捐给温州市第六人民医院的5400个口罩。
The first batch of supplies sent home was 5,400 masks destined for the Sixth People's Hospital in Wenzhou.
她有朋友在这间医院当护士，那里“护士们都快哭了”——口罩不够，一人一天只能分到一个，但理论上需要每四个小时就换一个。
She has a friend who works as a nurse in this hospital, where "nurses are about to cry" - there are not enough masks, and one can only be given one a day, but theoretically one every four hours.
“这批口罩花了8天到达，需要打通至少4个关卡，捐赠者需准备至少12份文件。
"The masks took eight days to arrive, they had to go through at least four checkpoints and donors had to prepare at least 12 documents.
”包珊珊对界面新闻表示，“我们走完一遍之后就感觉到，原来海外个人想捐赠，是这么难的一件事。
"After walking through it, we sensed that it was so difficult for individuals overseas to donate," Bashan told Interface News.
”一个从意大利出发的包裹要到达指定的温州医院，需要经过的4个关卡包括：意大利海关、中国海关、温州卫健委、医院。
To get a package from Italy to a designated Wenzhou hospital, there are four levels: Italian Customs, Chinese Customs, Wenzhou Fitness Commission and hospitals.
在意大利，以个人名义采购的物资一般没有发票，如要通过海关出口，需额外补齐发票、并出具海关出口声明。
In Italy, goods purchased on behalf of individuals are generally not invoiced and additional invoices and customs export declarations are required for export through customs.
到了中国海关后需要进行清关。
Customs clearance is required upon arrival at China Customs.
报关时需证明，物资的用途是捐赠，否则将被征关税。
Customs declaration needs to prove that the goods are used for donation, otherwise will be subject to customs duties.
这就需要提前准备好由温州卫健委盖章的捐赠意向书、报关委托书等。
This needs to be prepared in advance by Wenzhou health committee seal the letter of intent to donate, customs clearance, etc.
物资过了关到达温州卫健委，还需要登记入库。
After the goods reach Wenzhou health committee, also need to register into the warehouse.
以个人名义进来的物资跟团体不同，需要做额外的登记。
Goods brought in as individuals, unlike groups, require additional registration.
最后是派送到医院。
Finally it was sent to the hospital.
包珊珊回忆，疫情爆发时正好是春节，DHL的中国分部也已经休假。
Shan Bao recalled that the outbreak coincided with the Spring Festival and that DHL's China branch had already taken a vacation.
她认识DHL的中国区高管，对方帮忙协调了值班人员，加班加点帮忙报关。
She knows DHL's China executives, who help coordinate duty officers and work overtime to help customs clearance.
他们此前已经跟温州卫健委取得联系，紧急开了“绿灯”。
They have been in contact with Wenzhou health committee, emergency issued a "green light."
为了保证物资能够到达定点医院，DHL的高管曾亲自前往温州卫健委，在入库登记之后、连夜将物资运到医院。
In order to ensure that supplies can reach the designated hospital, DHL executives have personally gone to Wenzhou Health Commission, in the warehouse after registration, overnight delivery of supplies to the hospital.
“大多数的个人捐赠者都没有渠道来协调这些关卡，单是需要准备这12份文件就够头疼了。
"Most individual donors don't have the means to co-ordinate these levels and just having to prepare these 12 documents can be a headache.
”包珊珊表示。
"said Shan Bao.
温州人的自救公益小组于2月2日正式启动。
Wenzhou people's self-help group on February 2 officially launched.
倪仲波和包珊珊将消息发在了朋友圈后，很快在海外的温州群体中流传开来。
Ni Zhongbo and Bao Shanshan sent the news in the circle of friends, soon after in the overseas Wenzhou group spread.
团队开始了连轴转：十个人的小组，一半在国内、一半在欧洲。
The team began the rotation: ten-person teams, half at home and half in Europe.
上午对接温州的卫健委，下午对接欧洲的捐赠者和DHL。
The morning docked Wenzhou's health committee, the afternoon docked with European donors and DHL.
包珊珊表示，这中间有很多细节的问题需要协调。
'There's a lot of detail in this that needs to be coordinated, 'says Ms. Boshansan.
例如，DHL在欧洲各国的提货流程有不一样的规定。
For example, DHL has different procedures for the collection of goods in European countries.
在德国，超过1000欧元以上的出口都需要在德国国内申报，意大利就不需要。
In Germany, exports of more than €1,000 or more are required to be declared in Germany, not in Italy.
德国是邮件预约取货，希腊则是电话预约。
Germany takes delivery by mail, Greece by telephone.
包珊珊观察到，温商们在面对疫情时表现出了空前的团结。
Bashan observed an unprecedented degree of solidarity among the warm business community in the face of the epidemic.
“其实在国外的温商之间，或多或少都有些竞争，也很少合作。
"There is a bit of competition and very little co-operation between moderates abroad.
但这次情况一出来，各家物流转运公司都联合起来，你出几辆车、我也出几辆车。
But as soon as this situation comes out, each logistics transit company is united, you give a few cars, I also go out a few vehicles.
都在想我要怎么可以出一份力，而不是看看就好了。
I wonder how I can make a contribution instead of looking at it.
”在公益小组的另一位发起人黄信雅看来，温州社会从来都有自救的传统。
According to Huang Xinya, another founder of the pro bono group, Wenzhou society has always had a tradition of self-help.
这次疫情爆发，很多人最朴素的想法就是，我要怎么多买几个口罩、捐给我在老家的村民们。
With the outbreak, the simplest idea for many people is how I can buy more masks and donate them to my villagers back home.
“不少个人捐赠者也会有疑虑。
"A lot of individual donors have their doubts, too.
”包珊珊解释道，大多数的温州人还是希望能捐给自己的家乡。
"Shan Bao explained that most people in Wenzhou still want to donate to their hometown.
比如，温州下属的县级市瑞安现在疫情很糟糕，瑞安人就希望能定点捐到瑞安的医院。
For example, the county-level city of Ryan in Wenzhou now has such a bad outbreak that the Ryan people want to be targeted for donation to Ryan's hospital.
他们会担心，东西会不会在过海关时被劝捐、或是直接被武汉征用了？如果到了温州，可以落实到定点的医院吗？公益小组是临时搭建的，可以信任你们吗？根据倪仲波提供的数据，截至2月7日，他们已经帮忙运送了573箱物资回到温州，包括20万个口罩、10万件防护服、155个手套和680个额温枪。
Will they be persuaded to donate or requisitioned directly by Wuhan when they go through customs? If they arrive in Wenzhou, will they be able to go to a designated hospital? As of February 7, they have helped deliver 573 boxes of supplies back to Wenzhou, including 200,000 masks, 100,000 protective suits, 155 gloves and 680 frontline guns, according to Ni Zhongbo.
让倪仲波印象很深的是一位来自荷兰的老奶奶。
What impressed Ni Zhongbo was an old grandmother from Holland.
她通过熟人找到公益小组，希望把手上的5000个口罩一半捐给杭州、一半捐给温州。
She approached a charity group of acquaintances to donate half of her 5,000 face masks to Hangzhou and half to Wenzhou.
倪仲波很想帮忙，但无奈公益小组目前只打通了寄往温州的渠道，没法寄到杭州。
Ni Zhongbo very want to help, but helpless group of public welfare only through the channel sent to Wenzhou, can not send to Hangzhou.
倪仲波希望能把公益小组的经验推广到更多的城市去。
Ni Zhongbo hopes to be able to extend the experience of the pro bono group to more cities.
他们也在给美国、澳洲、非洲的华人群体提供咨询。
They are also advising Chinese communities in the United States, Australia and Africa.
对于希望能通过类似方式往国内寄运物资的个人捐赠者，倪仲波建议，一定要把相关的报关文件提前准备好。
For individuals wishing to send goods to China by similar means, Ni Zhongbo suggested that the relevant customs documents be prepared in advance.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利温商的“闯关”之旅：海外个人捐赠为何如此难？。
Italy's Winners' Journey: Why are Overseas Personal Donations so Difficult?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利温商的“闯关”之旅：海外个人捐赠为何如此难？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "“需要打通至少4个关卡，捐赠者需准备至少12份文件……我们走完一遍之后就感觉到，原来海外个人想捐赠，是这么难的一件事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "At least four checkpoints needed to be opened and at least 12 documents prepared by donors... We felt after we walked through it that it was so difficult for individuals overseas to donate.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
