运动课程观看量涨4倍，但线上健身可能火不了多久。
The number of sports sessions has increased four-fold, but online fitness may not take long.
罗盈盈。
Lo Ying Ying.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：罗盈盈编辑：石一瑛“ 疫情结束后，在线健身或许成为一个新战场。
Photo: China visual reporter: Luo Ying-ying editor: Shi Yiying "After the end of the epidemic, online fitness may become a new battlefield.
”最近大半个月，黄晨跟着教练Mike做过燃脂训练，跟着Icey上过流动伸展课，还跟小雨老师一起练过马甲线。
For most of the last half month, Huang Chen trained with coach Mike to burn fat, followed Ikey on mobile stretches and practiced vest with Miss Xiaoyu.
只是，这一切都隔着手机屏幕进行。
It's just, it's all done across the phone screen.
由于新冠肺炎疫情，这位运动爱好者常去的健身房停业，不得不在家练起来。
The gymnasium, a popular gym frequented by sports enthusiasts, was shut down due to the outbreak of pneumonia at home.
她说：“只要你想动，客厅也能变健身房。
"The living room can become a gym if you want to," she says.
”不仅是黄晨，特殊时期，线上健身课堂成为很多人的选择。
Not just for Huang Chen, but for special periods, online fitness classes have become a choice for many people.
线上健身平台keep向界面新闻提供的数据显示，2月上旬，运动课程的观看量比平日大涨近430%。
Online fitness platform Keep reported a nearly 430 percent increase in attendance at sports classes in the first half of February.
即便疫情逐步好转，黄晨表示近两三个月都不打算去健身房，“还是担心人多。
Even as the situation gradually improved, Ms. Huang said she wasn't planning to go to the gym for nearly two or three months.
”业内也同意这一判断：上半年，线下健身房的到店用户预计会大幅减少，线上课程的热度仍将持续一段时间。
The industry agrees: Online gym attendance is expected to drop dramatically in the first half of this year, and the popularity of online courses will continue for some time.
这场突发疫情，让线上健身看到了风口，但也有可能，这只是短期的泡沫。
This outbreak, let online fitness to see the wind vent, but it is also possible that this is only a short-term bubble.
图片来源：视觉中国客厅狂欢“打开微博、抖音、快手和公众号，都会有人想让你运动健身了解一下，”黄晨说道。
Photo Source: Visual Chinese Living Room Carnival "Open Weibo, Chatter, Quick Hands and Public Notices," says Ms. Huang.
健身机构、运动品牌、健身博主、体育明星以及媒体平台纷纷参与其中，以上传锻炼视频或直播的方式进行远程指导。
Fitness institutions, sports brands, fitness bloggers, sports stars and media platforms have participated in the above-mentioned exercise video or direct remote guidance.
用冬瓜做箭步蹲、用大靠椅做深蹲、米袋平板卧推、油壶平板凳飞鸟……在缺乏器械的情况下，民间健身“土方”层出不穷。
With winter melon squat, use big chair to do squat, rice bag flat flat bench, oil pot bird... in the absence of equipment, folk fitness "earthwork" endless.
黄晨去年买的任天堂Switch健身环，一个通过游戏交互来健身的小东西，二手价甚至从550元炒至上千元。
The Nintendo Switch Fitness Ring, bought last year by Huang Chen, is a gadget that works out through game interactions. Second-hand prices range from $550 to $1,000.
截至2月14日，新浪微博“宅家健康运动计划”的话题，引发网民3.9亿次阅读和29.6万次讨论。
As of February 14, Sina Weibo "homestead health campaign project" topics, attracted 390 million reading and 296,000 discussion.
数据平台七麦研究院的报告显示，1月疫情爆发至今，健身的搜索指数从5831涨至6744。
Since the outbreak began in January, the fitness search index has risen from 5,831 to 6,744, according to a report from the Institute for Research in Data Platform Seven.
疫情之下，当各行各业受到巨大冲击，不少人冲向了线上健身领域。
Under the epidemic, when all walks of life were hit hard, many people rushed to the online fitness field.
健身达人直播“健身土方”乐刻、超级猩猩和Keep等头部健身企业反应最快，成为第一批尝试直播健身的品牌。
Head fitness companies such as Fitness Earth Carver, Super Gorilla and Keep have been the fastest growing and the first to try live.
超级猩猩创始人跳跳没想到在线健身会火。
Superchimp Founder Jump Unexpectedly online fitness will catch fire.
最初，他们只是看到用户在群里讨论无法出门运动，于是决定做个尝试，临时注册账号进行直播课程。
At first, they just saw users talking in groups about being unable to exercise, so they decided to try and sign up temporarily for live classes.
然而，第一场直播同时在线人数超过17万，还成为一直播这一平台的TOP ONE主播。
The first live broadcast, however, reached more than 170,000 people online and became the TOP ONE anchor for the live broadcast of the platform.
而抖音账号“超猩家里蹲”的直播，高峰时期19万人在线观看。
But the dithering account number "ultra small house squat" the live broadcast, peak period 190,000 people watch online.
超级猩猩上线“14天线上训练营课程”除了线上直播运动之外，超级猩猩上线“14天线上训练营课程”。
Super orangutans take "14 antenna on training camp course" In addition to live online campaign, super orangutans on-line "14 antenna training camp course.
22个线上训练营，单人价格399元，每班30人，在1小时内售罄。
22 online training camps, single price 399 yuan, each class of 30 people, within one hour sold out.
特殊时期的新尝试，为超级猩猩创造26万营收。
New attempts at special times have generated 260,000 revenues for the super-orangutans.
以中小型健身房为主的乐刻，同样把教练资源搬到了线上，联合快手和抖音推出“宅家运动会”，全平台教练线上教学，每天大约输出5-7节课程。
Music carving, which focuses on small and medium-sized gyms, also moves coaching resources online, combining fast hands and chatter to launch "homestead games," a platform-wide instructor-led online course that outputs about five to seven lessons a day.
据乐刻向界面新闻提供的数据，截至2月7日，其在快手和抖音共上传1.6万多条视频，两个平台的播放量约为2.7亿，每场参与人数均超过1万，均是免费授课。
As of February 7, it had posted more than 16,000 videos on the fly and chatter, with about 270 million people on both platforms, each with more than 10,000 participants, giving free lessons, according to Le Carver's Interface News.
Keep健身直播页面作为最大的线上健身平台，Keep自然不甘人后，疫情期间在App store健康健美类免费排行榜位居首位。
Keep Fitness Live Page As the largest online fitness platform, Keep naturally refused to take the top spot in the App store health and fitness category during the epidemic.
该平台先是推出宅家健身指南，还联合Shape、每日瑜伽、lululemon、Under Armour及健身达人推出“假期运动直播大全”，聚合各运动品牌的课程信息，进行一站式的直播课程分享。
The platform features a homestead fitness guide, combined with Shape, daily yoga, lululemon, Under Armour and fitness campaigners to launch the "Live Holiday Sport Collection," which brings together course information from various sports brands and provides a one-stop-shop for live programme sharing.
截至2月5日，Keep平台运动直播累计参与人数超过5650万，直播时长达到100小时，同时在线人数的峰值是16万。
As at 5 February, the Keep campaign had more than 56.5 million live participants and 100 hours of live streaming, with a peak of 160,000 online at the same time.
为了吸引女性用户，Keep甚至与李佳琦合作推出语音包。
Keep even teamed up with Li Jia Qi to launch voice packs to attract female users.
很快，大家就能一边在家健身，一边听着“练她”、“OMG”、“amazing”式的鼓励，李佳琦可能还会夸你运动的样子美炸了。
Soon, people will be able to work out at home, listening to encouragement like "practice her," "OMG" and "amazing," and Li Jia Qi may even praise your athletic style.
相较于这些新型健身品牌，各大健身房则需要从零到一开辟线上新市场。
In contrast to these new fitness brands, gyms need to start new markets from zero to one.
一兆韦德、威尔仕等大型俱乐部，均首次开设线上直播课程，每天在抖音等平台开设三四节课，以团操为主。
For the first time, major clubs such as Wade and Welsh offer live online courses, and offer three or four classes a day on a dithering platform, focusing on group exercises.
即使是从未涉及健身领域的体育媒体平台PP体育，最近亦开设健身直播栏目。
Even PP Sports, a sports media platform that has never been involved in fitness, has recently opened a live fitness program.
作为媒体平台中的“吃螃蟹人”，他们的数据显示，北京、上海、南京观看健身直播课程人次最多。
As "crab eaters" on media platforms, Beijing, Shanghai and Nanjing received the most visitors to live fitness programs, according to their data.
Keep与耐克直播页面国内品牌以安踏为首，早早邀请张继科、武大靖等代言人，还有健身达人录好了小视频授课。
Keep and Nike live domestic brands to Anta, early invited Zhang Jike, Wu Dajing and other spokesmen, as well as fitness Da Jing recorded small video lectures.
相比之下，运动品巨头耐克这次来晚了——2月12日，耐克才开始大规模宣传NTC（Nike Training Club）这个app上安排的直播课程。
By contrast, sporting-goods giant Nike arrived late this time - on February 12, Nike began a large-scale broadcast of the NTC's app.
与此同时，NTC教练钱晟的线上教学中，还不忘推荐品牌最新的训练鞋。
Meanwhile, the NTC coach, Sheng Qian, is still recommending the brand's latest training shoes in his online teaching.
绝大部分用户均表示，目前的免费直播教程已能满足需求。
The vast majority of users said that the current free live tutorial was able to meet the demand.
当然，对于这些健身机构来说，创造营收是其次，更多是维系用户粘性，还有探索线上教学的新模式。
Of course, for these fitness institutions, revenue generation is the second, more to maintain user stickiness, and to explore a new model of online teaching.
线下健身房雪上加霜。
Adding insult to injury to the gym.
图片来源：视觉中国有人欢喜有人愁不过，擅长互联网造势的健身品牌只是少数。
Some Chinese like to worry, but only a few of them are good at building momentum on the Internet.
张灏在健身行业任职5年，目前在广州一家中小型健身房会籍部工作。
Zhang Hao has worked in the fitness industry for five years and is currently working in a small and medium-sized gym membership department in Guangzhou.
跟许多传统健身房一样，暂停营业的同时，他们为用户相应延续会员期限。
Like many traditional gyms, they keep their memberships open when they are closed.
他说，这段时间，健身房教练们每天拍摄训练视频分发给用户参考，但传播度仅限于现有会员群体。
Gym coaches shoot daily training videos for distribution to users during this time, but only to existing memberships, he said.
在北京和上海一共有着七家连锁门店的中高端健身房SpaceCycle也是如此，线上直播课程在其京东旗舰店进行，传播也主要集中于现有会员。
So is SpaceCycle, a mid- to high-end gymnasium with seven chain stores in Beijing and Shanghai, where live online courses are held at its flagship store in Beijing and Shanghai.
相比于Keep和超级猩猩等平台的运动类别及规模更有优势，中小型健身房在线上获得的影响力有限。
Small- and medium-sized gyms have less impact online than platforms such as Keep and Super Orangutans, which have greater variety and size.
根据行业惯例，寒冬过后，健身房市场逐渐转暖，春季三四月份会达到高峰，不少人选择减重塑形来迎接夏天露肉的季节。
According to industry practice, the gymnasium market gradually warms up after the cold winters and peaks in spring and April. Many people choose to lose weight and shape for the summer season.
但受疫情影响，2020年一季度，传统健身房的现金流预计将大幅减少。
But cash flows from traditional gyms are expected to fall sharply in the first quarter of 2020 as a result of the epidemic.
张灏算了一笔账，“按照以往，春季收入占全年30%-40%，现在基本报废了，疫情结束可能大家健身热情更高，稍微抵消，这样全年收入还是会减少三成左右。
Zhang Hao calculated an account, "Spring income used to account for 30% -40% of the year, but now it's almost written off, and the end of the epidemic is likely to reduce annual income by about 30% with a little more enthusiasm for fitness.
”他所在的健身房同行交流群里有100来人，粗略调查结果显示，一半人认为疫情造成的年营收损失达到20%以上。
A rough survey of about 100 people in his gym peers showed that half thought the epidemic was costing them more than 20 percent of their annual revenue.
关门停业的同时，各种租金场地成本要照付，对于重度依赖现金流的健身行业是一次重击。
Closing doors while paying for all types of rental space is a blow to the cash-strapped fitness industry.
张灏认为，“小企业可能会活不下去，有些的账面资金撑不了两个月，能撑下去的都是有点‘肌肉’ 的。
'Small businesses may not survive, 'says Prof. Chang.' Some of the paper money won't last two months, so it's a bit of a muscle '.
”图片来源：视觉中国在此之前，传统健身业刚刚经历了非常不愉快的2019年。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn Before that, the traditional fitness industry had just gone through a very unpleasant 2019.
大规模的关门、欠薪甚至跑路，令行业陷入冷寂。
Large-scale shutdowns, unpaid wages, and even road journeys have left the industry cold.
最让同行震惊的，是国内最早的连锁健身品牌浩沙健身在2019年5月崩盘——有着20年历史的浩沙，曾拥有160多家门店、30万余会员，却遭遇突然倒下的结局。
The biggest shock was the collapse in May 2019 of Haosha, the country's oldest chain of fitness brands - a 20-year-old sand chain with more than 160 stores and 300,000 members that suddenly collapsed.
据青橙科技的数据，2019年总共有3099家健身房关闭，关闭率为4.36%，成立一年内关闭的健身房则达到528家。
According to Blue Orange Technology, a total of 3,099 gyms were closed in 2019, a closure rate of 4.36 per cent, compared with 528 that were closed within a year.
国内运动消费市场形势大好，但传统健身业却遭淘汰。
Domestic sports consumer market situation is good, but the traditional fitness industry has been eliminated.
业内将原因归咎于“预付费制”到了问题爆发的时间点——过分依赖“预付费制”来捆绑会员，意味着健身房与教练、销售混为一体，而付费过后的服务质量又参差不齐。
The industry blames the "prepaid system" on the point at which the problem erupts - over-reliance on the "pay-in-advance" system to bind members, implying that gyms mix with coaches and sales, while the quality of services after payment varies.
曾在健身房干过兼职的小林告诉界面新闻：“资深教练的销售提成很高，课时费加上销售提成，几乎是六四开，教练拿六成，健身房四成，总之大部分教练是拿50%-70%。
Kobayashi, who has worked part-time at the gym, told Interface News: "The sales commission for senior coaches is high, with hours spent plus sales commission, almost six to four, coaches get 60 percent, gym 40 percent, and most coaches get 50 percent to 70 percent, anyway.
”长期研究健身行业的广州怪兽体育总裁陈柏龄认为，受益于互联网健身的发展，用户获取健身内容及课程的形式越来越多，给传统线下健身行业带来冲击。
Chen Burling, president of Guangzhou Monster Sports, a long-time fitness industry researcher, thinks users are getting more and more fitness content and courses as a result of the growth of Internet fitness, which has hit the traditional off-line fitness industry.
图片来源：超级猩猩当传统健身房受挫，新型健身品牌则逆风起飞。
Photograph: Super orangutans While traditional gyms suffer setbacks, new fitness brands are taking off against the wind.
以超级猩猩为例，这家明星企业在2019年完成3.6亿元D轮融资，成为继Keep之后又一家完成D轮融资的健身公司。
Take the superorangutans, who completed a $360 million round of D funding in 2019, making it the next fitness company to complete round D funding after Keep.
与传统健身业一样，超级猩猩的健身房选址在商圈、购物中心的首层或零售层。
Like the traditional fitness industry, super-gorilla gyms are located on the first floor of shopping malls or retail floors.
但其店面更小，不提供澡间，成本得到控制。
But it has a smaller storefront, no bathing rooms, and costs are controlled.
有别于传统年卡模式，单次付费是新型健身房的卖点。
Unlike the traditional annual card model, a single payment is the selling point of the new gym.
“课种更多，按次消费，不会充了卡就跑路的健身房，降低健身门槛，”黄晨说道。
"More classes, per-session consumption, will not fill the card on the road gym, lower fitness threshold," Huang Chen said.
作为“互联网+健身”品牌，超级猩猩在网上约课和签到，运营效率更高，减少人力派宣传单的模式。
As the "Internet + fitness" brand, super orangutans in the online appointment and check-in, more efficient operation, reduce the mode of human leaflet.
有些新型门店还拥有上课系统HOLOFIT，让用户及时观察到健身时的心率数据和规范动作。
Some new stores also have a class system called HOLOFIT, which allows users to keep track of fitness heart rate data and routines.
这些擅长数字运营和线上互动的健身品牌，其优势在疫情期完全显露。
The advantages of these fitness brands, which excel in digital operations and online interaction, were fully apparent during the epidemic.
当大部分健身房仍在考虑是否做线上时，他们已经快速建立起影响力。
While most gyms are still considering whether to go online, they have quickly built up their presence.
图片来源：图虫线上健身机会几何随着在线直播反馈热烈，包括超级猩猩、乐刻在内，不少公司正考虑把健身直播常态化。
http: / / larry.beiin.com Many companies, including Super orangutans and Le Carver, are considering normalizing their live fitness broadcasts.
媒体平台PP体育也在尝试过后，考虑将健身作为一个新的内容突破点。
PP sports media platform is also trying to consider fitness as a new content breakthrough point.
疫情结束后，在线健身将成为一个需要竞争的新战场。
With the end of the epidemic, online fitness will be a new battleground for competition.
实际上，国内互联网健身很早曾短暂流行过。
In fact, the domestic Internet fitness has long been popular for a short time.
2014年，在国外健身行业的影响之下，健身O2O逐渐火热起来，以预约教练和场地为切口的网上平台陆续出现——打破“预付费制”的消费模式，通过单次或按月付费的形式，减少消费者的前期成本支出。
In 2014, under the influence of the foreign fitness industry, fitness O2O became increasingly popular, with online platforms featuring coaches and venues - breaking the "pay-as-you-go" consumption pattern and reducing upfront costs for consumers through single or monthly payments.
但那个时候，这些互联网健身平台多以中介的角色存在，难以绕开与健身房之间的利益纠葛。
But at that time, these Internet fitness platforms are often intermediary role, it is difficult to avoid the interests of the gym between the entanglement.
为此，健身房教练们甚至曾联合抵制在线平台。
Gym coaches have even boycotted online platforms to that end.
与此同时，传统健身房课程体系不成熟，大多数用户的健身习惯未被培养，线上选课的需求并未激发出来。
At the same time, the traditional gymnasium curriculum system is not mature, most users fitness habits have not been developed, the demand for online courses has not been aroused.
最终，互联网健身项目纷纷回归线下。
Eventually, the Internet fitness program has returned to the line.
直至近两年，以Keep为代表的平台出现，在线运动健身客户数量才快速增长。
Until nearly two years, Keep as the representative of the platform, the number of online sports fitness customer growth.
据Keep发布的《国民运动生活大赏》数据报告，2019年，该平台拥有2亿注册用户，平均每周锻炼4.64次，每次锻炼时长平均20分钟。
In 2019, the platform had 200 million registered users and exercised an average of 4.64 times a week for an average of 20 minutes per workout, according to Keep's Rewards for National Sport data.
Keep线下健身房Keepland此次疫情似乎为在线健身带来发展契机，但业内人士认为，风口没有想象中那么大。
Keep's off-line gym Keepland The Keepland epidemic appears to be giving fitness a shot in the arm, but industry insiders believe the trough is not as big as it should be.
首先，“看不见摸不着”的线上指导，是一件很费劲的事情。
First of all, it is a very difficult thing to guide on the line "out of sight."
当过兼职教练的小林说：“线上授课怎么知道动作掌握得怎样，会员也弄个摄像头直播给教练看吗？私教要因材施教，连会员的动作都看不仔细，很难调整训练。
"How do you know how the online classes are going to be handled," Kobayashi, a part-time coach, said: "Do members also get a webcam to show the instructor live?
线下就容易多了，面对面示范，整节课都心里有数。
It's a lot easier offline, face-to-face demonstrations, the whole class knowing.
”用户的体能参差不齐，令居家健身风险更高。
Users' physical abilities vary, making home fitness riskier.
2016年，单车健身品牌SoulCycle被会员起诉，原因是教练没有认清用户的运动状态，错误要求其“骑快点”，导致用户骑行失控摔下单车，左脚踝严重损伤。
In 2016, the cycling fitness brand Soul Cycle was sued by its members for failing to recognize the user's motion and mistakenly asking him to "ride faster," causing him to lose control of his bicycle and hurt his left ankle badly.
与此同时，需求会在“居家、隔离”状态结束之后慢慢消逝，“预付费制”都没能建立的习惯，很难让居家运动成为常态，包括为了社交的健身目的，都是接下来线上健身会面临的问题。
At the same time, demand fades after the end of "homestay, isolation," and the habit of "pay-as-you-go" is hard to make routine, including for social fitness purposes, the next problem with online fitness.
图片来源：视觉中国最关键的是，线上健身的变现能力遭质疑。
Source: Vision China's most critical is that the online fitness realisation capacity is questioned.
从事健身教练20年的李欣认为，“更多用户还在免费使用软件，所营造的健身社交性、盈利性、商业回报都没有体现出来。
Li Xin, who has been a fitness coach for 20 years, says: "More users are still using the software for free, creating social, profitable and commercial rewards that are not reflected.
线上健身品牌打造线下体验店，从线上向线下导流很困难。
It is difficult for an online fitness brand to create an off-line experiential store to channel water offline.
”去年，美国健身巨头Peloton递交招股书，引起关注。
Peloton, the US health giant, raised concerns last year by submitting a prospectus.
它以家用健身单车/跑步机+订阅直播课的模式，五年内成长为独角兽，但实际并未摆脱亏损状态。
It grew into a unicorn in five years by using a home fitness bike / treadmill + subscription live class, but it didn't actually get out of the red.
与此同时，直播平台的庞大流量，在为健身行业引流的同时，也会冲击在线健身课程的精准覆盖，不利于付费会员的转化。
At the same time, the huge amount of traffic to the live broadcast platform, while attracting the fitness industry, will also impact the precise coverage of online fitness courses, not conducive to the transformation of paid members.
即使是此次线上健身的得益者，超级猩猩创始人跳跳亦认为， 线上直播确实不为盈利考虑，主要给健身用户交付价值，线上课程无法代替线下，只是特殊时间段内对线下服务的一个很好补充。
Even the online fitness beneficiary, Superchimp Founder Jump, believes that live online isn't really about making money, it's about delivering value to fitness users, and online courses can't take the place of offline, just a good complement to offline service in special times.
尽管如此，这次大型健身直播活动为线上线下的融合提供了试验场。
Nonetheless, the large-scale live fitness event provided a testing ground for offline fusion.
这场试验最中肯的结论是，无论传统健身房还是新型品牌，未来或将带来更多“线下健身房+线上视频辅导”的产品模式，为偶尔无法到店的用户提供线上体验。
The most pertinent conclusion of the experiment is that whether it's a traditional gym or a new brand, the future may bring more offline gym + online video tutoring models that offer an online experience for infrequently unavailable users.
漫长的寒冬过后，适应变化的健身房才能留下来。
After a long winter, a gym adapted to the changes can stay.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
运动课程观看量涨4倍，但线上健身可能火不了多久。
The number of sports sessions has increased four-fold, but online fitness may not take long.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "运动课程观看量涨4倍，但线上健身可能火不了多久";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; but online fitness may not have been & quot; & quot;.
var msg_desc = "疫情结束后，在线健身或许成为一个新战场。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; online fitness may have been a new battleground after the epidemic ended.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
