共享充电宝陷入生死危机：1月工资减半，员工无限期待命。
Share chargers are in a life-or-death crisis: 1-month pay cut in half and employees on standby indefinitely.
郑洁瑶。
Cheng Jieyao.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：郑洁瑶“ 疫情开始以来，KTV、网吧、洗浴中心等娱乐场所基本都被暂停营业，餐饮、酒店则门可罗雀。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn "Since the outbreak began, KTV, Internet cafes, bathing centers and other entertainment venues have been suspended.
对于共享充电宝这类非常依赖人流量的行业来说，这几乎是致命打击。
This is almost fatal for an industry that relies heavily on traffic, such as the sharing of charging devices.
”一场来势汹汹的疫情，让共享充电宝赛道的大小玩家遭遇了有史以来的最大危机。
A furious outbreak has hit big and small players on the shared charging circuit with the biggest crisis ever.
和其他互联网项目不同，共享充电宝的商业模式对线下商户依赖极强，只要线下商户不开业，共享充电宝就无法产生有效订单。
Unlike other Internet projects, the business model of sharing charging devices relies heavily on offline merchants, who cannot generate a valid order as long as the offline merchant does not open.
而疫情开始以来，KTV、网吧、洗浴中心等娱乐场所基本都被暂停营业，餐饮、酒店则门可罗雀。
Since the beginning of the epidemic, KTV, Internet cafes, bathing centers and other entertainment places have been suspended, catering, hotels are not.
对于共享充电宝这类非常依赖人流量的行业来说，这几乎是致命打击。
This is almost fatal for an industry that relies heavily on traffic, such as the sharing of charging devices.
日前，小电科技CEO唐永波发表了一篇公开信。
Recently, small electrical technology CEO Tang Yongbo published an open letter.
信中指出，疫情对公司业务已经造成致命打击，一方面收入骤降冰点，另一方面公司还有5000名员工的工资以及供应链和各地办公租金等多项支出亟待解决。
The letter said the outbreak had already dealt a fatal blow to the company's business, with revenues plunging to freezing levels as well as the salaries of 5,000 employees and spending on the supply chain and rental of offices around the country.
如果疫情持续到3月，那不仅会影响到整个一季度的业绩，也会影响业界对整个行业的信心。
If the epidemic continues into March, it will affect not only quarterly results but also industry confidence in the industry as a whole.
但现在，疫情的拐点还未明确出现，为了自救，不少企业也开始了紧急的节流措施。
But now, the inflection point of the epidemic has not yet clearly emerged, in order to save themselves, many enterprises have also started emergency measures of throttling.
据界面新闻记者了解，目前已有一家公司选择将1月工资扣除一半，缓至2月20日发放，而2月和3月工资，底薪正常发放，绩效和提成却要延后到6月发放。
According to Interface News, one company has chosen to deduct half of a month's salary until February 20, while February and March salaries are paid normally, with performance and commission deferred until June.
程晓是上述公司的一名商务BD。
Cheng Xiaoxiao is a business BD of the above-mentioned company.
据其介绍，目前，该公司除了少数行政、公关、技术同事已经通过远程在线的方式开始待命，其他的线下BD则统统处于放假状态。
So far, the company has been on stand-by remotely, with the exception of a few administrative, public relations and technical co-workers, all of whom are on vacation, the company said.
“HR就叫我们看当地的疫情情况，根据当地政府的要求来，没有通知就先原地不动。
HR told us to look at the situation there and, at the request of the local government, stay put without notice.
但看这个情况，我觉得上班的日子遥遥无期。
But look at this situation, I feel that the day to work is far away.
”在业内，程晓所在的公司已经算是在赛道前列。
In the industry, Cheng Xiao's company is already at the forefront of the track.
头部企业尚且如此艰难，其他中小共享充电宝企业日子可想而知。
Head enterprises are still so difficult, other small and medium-sized share charging enterprise life can be imagined.
事实上，共享充电宝此前的日子并不难熬，其已是共享经济里唯一能大面积实现盈利的赛道。
In fact, the days before the sharing of rechargers were tough, and it was the only track in the sharing economy where profits could be made on a large scale.
2019年3月，街电COO何顺接受媒体采访时就曾表示，头部玩家基本都是盈利的。
In March 2019, COO Ho Shun Street interview with the media has said that the head players are basically profitable.
而在街电之后，“三电一兽”剩余的企业也都相继宣布盈利。
And after the street electricity, "three electricity one beast" the remaining enterprise also announces profit successively.
但一场疫情，却给这个行业带来致命打击。
But an outbreak has dealt a fatal blow to the industry.
一旦上游商户的人流量得不到保障，充电宝作为下游，就会受到严重影响。
Once the upstream business flow is not guaranteed, charging treasure as a downstream, will be seriously affected.
除此以外，充电宝还要向商户缴纳不低的租金或入场费。
In addition, the charge Bao will have to pay merchants not low rent or admission fees.
梅花天使的创始合伙人吴世春曾经告诉界面记者，共享充电宝本身就是一个低毛利的商业模型，随着商家的胃口越来越大，充电宝的盈利空间也会被挤压的越来越小。
Wu Shichun, founder partner of Plum Angel, once told Interface that sharing charging treasure itself is a low-margin business model, and as businesses become more voracious, the profit margins on charging devices will shrink.
而这也会影响到公司的现金流储备。
That, in turn, could affect the company's cash-flow reserves.
去年，程晓所在的公司就曾豪掷2000万换来了一家连锁夜店集团三年的独家入驻权。
Last year, Cheng Xiao's company had sold 20 million dollars in exchange for an exclusive three-year stay with a chain of nightclubs.
而类似的事行业内比比皆是，在他看来，这也是公司目前现金流告急的原因之一。
Such things are rife in the industry and, in his view, are one of the reasons for the company's current cash flow crunch.
据了解，为了获得更多的入场费，不少连锁餐饮甚至会启用招标的方式来选择合作的共享充电宝伙伴。
It is understood that in order to obtain more admission fees, many restaurant chains will even use a bidding method to select a co-operative charging partner.
这显然已经是行业进入低效竞争的开始。
This is clearly the beginning of inefficient competition in the industry.
突如其来的疫情危机，或许也会促使着各家企业去思考这类模式的弊端并努力去寻找新的盈利模式。
The sudden outbreak of the crisis may also prompt companies to think about the drawbacks of such models and try to find new profit models.
疫情会持续多久尚未可知，但可以确定的是，整个实体经济还要度过很长一段时间的信心重建期，能否熬过去，将成为每一个线下服务企业必须要面临的生死大考。
How long the epidemic will last is uncertain, but it is certain that the real economy will go through a long period of confidence-building, and whether it will survive will be a big test of life and death for every offline service provider.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
共享充电宝陷入生死危机：1月工资减半，员工无限期待命。
Share chargers are in a life-or-death crisis: 1-month pay cut in half and employees on standby indefinitely.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "共享充电宝陷入生死危机：1月工资减半，员工无限期待命";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情开始以来，KTV、网吧、洗浴中心等娱乐场所基本都被暂停营业，餐饮、酒店则门可罗雀。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; since the outbreak began, recreational venues such as KTV, Internet cafes, and bathing centres have been largely shut down, while restaurants and hotels have been shut down.
对于共享充电宝这类非常依赖人流量的行业来说，这几乎是致命打击。
This is almost fatal for an industry that relies heavily on traffic, such as the sharing of charging devices.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
