网友买口罩买到了武汉寄出的“救援物资”？武汉开发区官方回应来了。
Netizens buy masks sent to Wuhan to buy "rescue materials"? Wuhan Development Zone official response.
杨霞 柯晓斌等。
Yang Xia Xiaobin et al.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：杨霞 柯晓斌 郑萃颖“ 经武汉开发区（汉南区）公安分局调查核实，这批口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，与武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫无关。
2007-9-25 21: 23 [hide] www.youtheme.cn Zhang Ying "Investigation and verification by Wuhan Development Zone (Hannan District) Public Security Bureau verified that this mask is Wuhan Huasteda Protection Products Co., Ltd., has nothing to do with the Hannan Workers Culture Palace of Wuhan General Trade Union.
”2月14日，有网友在微博发帖称，他们在网上团购了一批口罩，收到货物之后却发现发货地址是武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫，外包装箱上还写有“救援物资”字样。
On Feb. 14, a netizen posted on Weibo said they had bought a batch of masks online and found the delivery address was Han Nan Workers' Culture Palace, a trade union, with the words "rescue materials" written on the outside boxes.
疑似有人倒卖捐赠口罩。
Suspected of selling face masks.
对此，武汉开发区官微于2月15日下午发布澄清声明：这批口罩与武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫无关，经查这批是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司生产，不是社会捐助的救援物资。
In this regard, Wuhan Development Zone issued a clarification on the afternoon of February 15: this mask and Wuhan City General Union Henan Workers Culture Palace, the investigation of this batch is Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd. production, not social donations of relief materials.
团购发起人小叶（化名）告诉界面新闻记者，这批口罩以12800元包邮的价格通过微商购买，一共41人参加团购，共计100盒4000个。
Group purchase initiator Xiaoye (alias) told the interface reporter that the mask was purchased through micro-merchants at a price of 12,800 yuan, 41 people participated in the group purchase, a total of 100 boxes of 4000.
该微商发货时曾说，这批口罩是来自河南工厂出口到日本的产品。
The microtrader had said at the time of delivery that the masks were exported to Japan from a factory in Henan.
但口罩发出后，顺丰物流发货单显示发件地点是武汉总工会汉南工人文化宫，发件人为“何洁”。
However, after the mask issued, Shunfeng logistics issued by the location of Wuhan General Union Hannan Workers Cultural Palace, the sender for "He Jie."
另外，快递箱外包装上有用油性笔写的“救援物资”字样。
In addition, express box on the outer packaging with an oily pen "relief material."
团购群群友在南宁顺丰仓库查看包裹情况，箱子上写有“救援物资”字样。
Group purchase group of friends in the Nanning Shunfeng warehouse to check the package, box written "relief supplies".
图片来源：群友微博令他们疑惑的还有，小叶与顺丰汉南发货快递员电话沟通后，证实这批口罩的确从武汉发货。
Photo source: Friends Weibo, they also wondered, Xiaoye and Shunfeng Hannan dispatch courier telephone communication, confirmed that the masks are indeed shipped from Wuhan.
这批口罩有两大箱，重达22斤，不符合顺丰个人从武汉发往外地的快递限制（原则上是限制三公斤及以内），为什么这批口罩可以在这个时期通过顺丰发出来？据界面新闻了解，汉南工人文化宫的管理工作现在由武汉市琴台管理处负责。
The masks, which weigh 22 kg in weight and two cartons, do not meet Shunfeng personal express delivery restrictions from Wuhan (in principle, three kilograms and less). Why can these masks be issued through Shunfeng? According to the Interface News, the Hannan Workers' Cultural Palace is now managed by Wuhan Qintai Administration Office.
一位工作人员在2月15日上午告诉界面新闻，武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫还没有建成，就是块空地。
February 15, a staff member told the interface news, Wuhan City General Union Hannan Workers Culture Palace has not been built, is a vacant lot.
目前只有一个临时工常驻，也不叫何洁。
At present, there is only one temporary worker, not Ho Jie.
2月15日下午，武汉开发区通过官方微博发布公告澄清，经武汉开发区（汉南区）公安分局调查核实，寄件人“何洁”系化名，实际寄件人为何雄，是湖北雄诚达消防工程有限公司法定代表人，一起做生意的妻子叫王洁，寄件人名字取“何洁”化名。
On the afternoon of February 15, Wuhan Development Zone issued a notice to clarify, through official Weibo, that the sender's He Jie was a pseudonym and the actual sender was the legal representative of Hubei Xiongchengda Fire Engineering Co. Ltd.
经公安局调查，何雄在网上出售的口罩来源于武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，该公司生产出口口罩等防护用品，何雄的堂兄何振华是该公司（民营企业）法定代表。
The mask sold online by Ho Xiong comes from Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd., which produces protective products such as masks for export. His cousin He Zhenhua is the company's legal representative.
网友质疑的口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司生产，不是社会捐助的救援物资，该公司已向区公安分局出具了关于何雄于2月1日从该公司提取口罩的情况说明。
The face mask questioned by netizens was produced by Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd., not a social donation, and the company has issued a statement to the District Public Security Bureau regarding Ho Xiong's collection of masks from the company on February 1.
武汉华世达防护用品有限公司地址为汉南纱帽微湖路511号，在原“汉南文化宫”附近。
Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd. is located at 511 Weihu Road Hannan Yarn, near the former "Hannan Palace of Culture."
快递员取件后，定位“武汉华世达防护用品有限公司”附近时，高德地图电子地图定位的邮寄地址为“武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫”。
Express courier pick-up, positioning "Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd." near the e-map map location address is "Wuhan City General Union Hannan Workers Culture Palace.
界面新闻于2月15日上午曾电话联系到武汉汉南区发货快递员，他也证实了上述说法，发货时系统定位自动显示成了汉南工人文化宫，发货人与文化宫无关。
On the morning of Feb. 15, the Interface News contacted Wuhan Hanan District delivery courier, he also confirmed the above-mentioned statement, the delivery of the system automatically displayed as the Han workers cultural palace, consignor and cultural palace.
不过，快递包装箱上的“救援物资”究竟是谁写的依然没有答案。
Still, there is no answer as to who wrote the "rescue materials" on the express packages.
根据小叶提供的两段对话录音来看，发货快递员曾对其表示：“2月2日，何洁（即何雄）公司在2月2日集中寄出了一批货，大约有70-80箱口罩，用的是他们公司的原包装，整箱整箱寄的，上面的字是他们写的。
"On February 2, Ho Jie, or Ho Hsiung, sent a concentrated shipment of about 70-80 boxes of masks on February 2, using their company's original packaging and boxes full of the letters they had written," he told SciDev.com.
我们只是直接贴单，没有进行二次包装。
We only post the order directly, but we don't pack it twice.
”但是，何雄也在对话中否认曾经在包装箱上写过“救援物资”的字样。
But he also denied in the conversation that he had ever written "relief supplies" on the boxes.
武汉开发区官方微博回应全文如下：2月14日，有热心网友在微博爆料，质疑他们网上购买的口罩发货单上注明是武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫，武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫在网上卖口罩?经武汉开发区（汉南区）公安分局调查核实，这批口罩与武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫无关。
The official Weibo response of Wuhan Development Zone on Feb. 14, 2007, a group of enthusiastic netizens questioned whether the issue list of masks they bought online indicated that it was the Hannan Workers' Culture Palace of Wuhan General Trade Union.
汉南区总工会和汉南工人文化宫2015年底就搬迁到沌口汤湖职工活动中心办公。
Han Southern Union and Hannan Workers Culture Palace at the end of 2015 will move to illegible mouth Tang Hu staff activity center office.
经区公安分局调查，寄件人“何洁”系化名，实际寄件人为何雄，是湖北雄诚达消防工程有限公司法定代表人，一起做生意的妻子叫王洁，寄件人名字取“何洁”化名。
After being investigated by the District Public Security Bureau, the sender's He Jie is an alias and the actual sender is the legal representative of Hubei Xiongchengda Fire Engineering Co. Ltd.
经查，何雄在网上出售的口罩来源于武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，该公司生产出口口罩等防护用品，何雄的堂兄何振华是该公司（民营企业）法定代表。
The mask sold online by Ho Xiong comes from Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd., which produces protective products such as masks for export. He Xiong's cousin He Zhenhua is the company's legal representative.
网友质疑的口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司生产，不是社会捐助的救援物资，该公司已向区公安分局出具了关于何雄于2月1日从该公司提取口罩的情况说明。
The face mask questioned by netizens was produced by Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd., not a social donation, and the company has issued a statement to the District Public Security Bureau regarding Ho Xiong's collection of masks from the company on February 1.
武汉华世达防护用品有限公司地址为汉南纱帽微湖路511号，在原“汉南文化宫”附近。
Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd. is located at 511 Weihu Road Hannan Yarn, near the former "Hannan Palace of Culture."
快递员取件后，定位“武汉华世达防护用品有限公司”附近时，高德地图电子地图定位的邮寄地址为“武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫”。
Express courier pick-up, positioning "Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd." near the e-map map location address is "Wuhan City General Union Hannan Workers Culture Palace.
武汉开发区（汉南区）接收的社会捐助物资使用情况均对外公示，欢迎社会各届人士监督！未经授权 禁止转载。
Wuhan Development Zone (Han South), the use of social donations received by the public are open to the public, welcomed the supervision of various members of the community! Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
网友买口罩买到了武汉寄出的“救援物资”？武汉开发区官方回应来了。
Netizens buy masks sent to Wuhan to buy "rescue materials"? Wuhan Development Zone official response.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "网友买口罩买到了武汉寄出的“救援物资”？武汉开发区官方回应来了";。
; [A netizen bought a rescue package from Wuhan when it bought a respirator? The Wuhan Development Zone official answered with & quot; & quot;.
var msg_desc = "经武汉开发区（汉南区）公安分局调查核实，这批口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，与武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫无关。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Searched by Wuhan Development Zone (Han South) Public Security Bureau, verified that the masks were Wuhan Huashida Protection Products Co., Ltd., unrelated to Wuhan General Union Henan Workers' Culture Palace.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
