疫情加速蔓延，老龄化严重的日本成为新焦点。
The epidemic is accelerating, with an ageing Japan taking on a new focus.
高恺仪。
Gaokaizi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月10日，日本东京，2020东京奥运会前瞻，奥运宣传标语亮相东京街头。
Tokyo, February 10, Japan, the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games forward, the Olympic slogan appeared on the streets of Tokyo.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：高恺仪“ 首例病逝确诊患者是一位80多岁的女性。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Gao Caesar "The first confirmed case of death was a woman in her 80s.
鉴于在中国的经验，新冠肺炎病毒对有基础病的老年人造成的影响更大，老龄化严重的日本状况越来越不乐观。
Given China's experience, the impact of the New Crown Pneumonia virus on the elderly with basic illnesses is greater, and aging Japan is becoming less optimistic.
”日本新冠肺炎疫情的焦点已从“钻石公主”号邮轮逐渐转移至国内。
The focus of the outbreak of pneumonia in Japan has shifted gradually from the Princess Diamond to the country.
截至当地时间15日12时30分，日本多地新增8名新型冠状病毒感染者，确诊总数达259例。
As of 12: 30 local time, 8 new cases of coronal virus infection were found in many parts of Japan, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 259.
世界卫生组织（WHO）高级顾问进藤奈邦子一天前在出席新型冠状病毒传染病紧急研讨会时称：“目前中国武汉的确诊人数已出现减少趋势。
"There has been a downward trend in the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan, China," said Kuniko Endo, a senior adviser to the World Health Organization, speaking a day ago at an emergency conference on the new coronavirus infection.
现在更令全球担心的是日本。
What worries the world more now is Japan.
”据悉，部分新增病例感染路径不明。
Some of the new cases are known to have unknown routes of infection.
厚生劳动省判断，出现社区传播的可能性将增大。
The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare judges that the likelihood of community transmission will increase.
日经新闻网14日报道称，如果看不到感染路径的事例接连出现，封锁将变得困难，日本政府可能需要转变对策，转为重点治疗重症患者等。
Japan's government may need to shift its approach and focus on treating people with severe illnesses, as the blockade will become more difficult if cases of infection are not seen, the newspaper reported Thursday.
日本疑似“超级传播者”的出现，以及首例感染者死亡的消息很快引起了各地居民的恐慌。
The appearance of a suspected "super-communicator" in Japan, and the news of the first death of an infected person, quickly alarmed residents everywhere.
设在各地保健所等的咨询中心的咨询电话骤增，三重县咨询窗口的负责人表示，“或许是因为日本国内首位死者和不知道感染途径的感染者出现，担忧正在扩大”。
"It's probably because of the first death in Japan and the presence of infected people who do not know the route of infection, that worries are growing," said Takahiro Kubo, director of the Triple District Counselling Window.
从咨询内容来看，“自己是不是也感染了”“买不到口罩”等不安情绪正在增加。
From the content of the consultation, "is not infected with their own" "can not buy masks" and other unease is increasing.
据悉，日本国内只有1800张可以隔离治疗新冠患者的床位，病毒检测一天最多200人。
There are only 1,800 beds in Japan where patients can be isolated for treatment and up to 200 people a day can be tested for the virus.
这让民众非常担心，专家现在开始呼吁，增加医院收容量、开发检测试剂盒。
That is worrying, and experts are now calling for more hospital capacity and the development of test kits.
首例病逝确诊患者是一位80多岁的日本女性。
The first confirmed case was a Japanese woman in her 80s.
鉴于在中国的经验，新冠肺炎病毒对有基础病的老年人造成的伤害更大，老龄化严重的日本国内状况越来越不乐观，已经处于一个高度警惕的状态。
Given China's experience, the New Crown Pneumonia virus is doing more harm to the elderly with underlying illnesses, and Japan's aging domestic situation is becoming less sanguine and is already on high alert.
另一方面，企业界也开始波及。
On the other hand, business began to spill over.
昨天下午，日本IT巨头NTT数据发公告，确认一名外来派遣社员被感染，其所在工作现场人员正被隔离诊断。
Yesterday afternoon, Japan's IT giant NTT data bulletin, confirmed that an expatriate community member was infected, the site of its staff is being isolated diagnosis.
而另一家日本代表性企业NEC，也将让超过6万员工下周开始在宅上班。
NEC, another representative Japanese company, will let more than 60,000 employees start work next week.
安倍政府被部分民众质疑反应不及时。
Abe's government was belatedly challenged by some in the population.
但首相安倍晋三也在做艰难地平衡抉择：如何在防控好疫情的同时，确保经济受到的影响降到最低。
But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is also struggling to balance the need to manage the epidemic with the need to ensure that the impact on the economy is minimized.
针对日本国内感染人数可能持续扩大，安倍13日在新型冠状病毒感染症对策本部会议上表明方针称，为防止感染扩大，对于无症状的感染者也将使采取强制住院等隔离措施成为可能。
Abenomics Minister Shinzo Abe, speaking at the headquarters conference on measures to combat the new coronavirus infection, said Wednesday that to prevent the spread of infection, asymptomatic infected people will also be able to resort to isolation measures such as compulsory hospitalization.
通过修改相关政令，该措施已于14日施行。
This measure entered into force on 14 May by amending the relevant decree.
同时，会上还公布了紧急对策，主要内容包括对旅游业中小企业的资金周转提供支持，包括2019年度预算的103亿日元预备费在内，总额达153亿日规模。
At the same time, urgent measures were announced, including support for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism industry, including a reserve of 10.3 billion yen in the 2019 annual budget, for a total of 15.3 billion days.
为了使受中日间人员往来急剧减少影响的企业能够维持雇用，将放宽“雇用调整补助金”的发放条件。
In order to maintain employment in enterprises affected by the drastic reduction in the movement of persons between the two sides, the conditions for granting the Employment Adjustment Grant will be relaxed.
据共同社15日报道，日本驻华大使馆官网删除了安倍晋三对中国的2020年新春贺词。
Japanese embassy officials in Beijing deleted Shinzo Abe's 2020 New Year message to China, Kyodo news agency reported Wednesday.
报道称，贺词内容包括邀请中国人在春节假期期间和今年东京奥运会期间赴日旅游。
The message included an invitation to travel to Japan during the Spring Festival and this year's Tokyo Olympics.
外务省致歉称“不合时宜”，于1月30日删除。
The Foreign Ministry apologized for being "out of place" and deleted it on January 30.
而安倍政府面临的挑战远不止于此，当下日本最在意的“能否确保东京奥运会顺利举办”也备受外界关注。
The challenges facing Abe's government extend far beyond this, and Japan's primary concern now is to ensure the success of the Tokyo Olympics.
国际奥委会协调委员会主席科茨14日表示，“信任日本公共卫生部门”，示意东京奥运会将如期举行。
International Olympic Committee Coordination Commission President Coates 14, "trust in Japan's public health sector," indicating that the Tokyo Olympic Games will be held as scheduled.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情加速蔓延，老龄化严重的日本成为新焦点。
The epidemic is accelerating, with an ageing Japan taking on a new focus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情加速蔓延，老龄化严重的日本成为新焦点";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with an accelerating epidemic, aging Japan a new focus and quot;;
var msg_desc = "首例病逝确诊患者是一位80多岁的女性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The first confirmed patient was a woman in her 80s.
鉴于在中国的经验，新冠肺炎病毒对有基础病的老年人造成的影响更大，老龄化严重的日本状况越来越不乐观。
Given China's experience, the impact of the New Crown Pneumonia virus on the elderly with basic illnesses is greater, and aging Japan is becoming less optimistic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
