他们在海外找口罩，遭遇价格飞涨、临时毁约、“无间道”抢购。
They are looking for masks overseas, hit by soaring prices, temporary contract breakage, "Infernal Affairs" snapping up.
赵孟。
Zhao Meng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者 ：赵孟“ 面对价格飞涨、临时毁约，甚至“无间道”抢购等突发情况，财政部专门发文要求各地简化采购程序，建立采购“绿色通道”。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Faced with soaring prices, temporary destruction of contracts, and even" Infernal Affairs "snapping up unexpected situations, the Ministry of Finance has issued a special letter asking all localities to simplify procurement procedures and establish procurement" green passage. "
在专家看来，此举有望逐步理顺海外采购工作，有效帮助国内医护物资供应。
In the view of experts, this is expected to gradually rationalize overseas procurement efforts, effectively helping the domestic supply of medical supplies.
”2020年1月24日，农历大年三十，在江西一家口罩生产公司的接待室里，朱亚君和四五家医药公司的负责人，正焦虑地等待着排单信息出来。
In the reception room of a mask-making company in Jiangxi province on January 24, 2020, Zhu Yajun and the heads of four or five pharmaceutical companies are anxiously waiting for the list to come out.
朱亚君是广州某医药公司CEO。
Zhu Yajun is the CEO of a Guangzhou pharmaceutical company.
此前的一天，武汉因新冠病毒疫情宣布封城，国内口罩市场告急，不少医院在网络上发起公开募捐，朱亚君也开始帮一些地方政府采购口罩。
The day before, Wuhan announced the closure of the new crown virus, the domestic mask market is in crisis, many hospitals launched public fund-raising on the network, also began to help some local governments to buy masks.
“当时我们还挺兴奋，因为出货量能有一千万只，”朱亚君说，但是排单采购的企业太多，三天后，这家口罩企业被当地政府接管，最后分配给几家企业的发货量只有5%，“还不够一家大型连锁药店的备货。
"We were excited because there were 10 million shipments," he said, but there were too many businesses buying orders. Three days later, the mask company was taken over by the local government and only 5% of the shipments were finally distributed to several companies.
”此后数日，在国内搜寻口罩日渐艰难，包括朱亚君在内的一些企业和个人，将目光投向了海外市场。
Companies and individuals, including Mr Zhu, turned to overseas markets in the days following the increasingly difficult search for masks at home.
同时随着疫情蔓延，一些大型企业和海外华侨也开始行动，在全世界帮助中国医院寻找口罩。
Meanwhile, as the epidemic spread, some large companies and overseas Chinese began operations to help Chinese hospitals around the world find masks.
如果把抗击疫情比作一场战争，冲在前线的几十万医护人员就是战士，而无数在全世界寻找口罩和防护服的企业和个人，则组成了庞大的“后勤保障队”。
If the fight against the epidemic is likened to a war, where hundreds of thousands of health workers on the front lines are fighters, countless businesses and individuals seeking masks and protective clothing around the world make up a huge "logistic support team."
非常时期，每一次交易都变得艰难。
Every trade gets tough in these hard times.
面对价格飞涨、临时毁约，甚至“无间道”抢购等突发情况，财政部专门发文要求各地简化采购程序，建立采购“绿色通道”。
Faced with soaring prices, temporary destruction of contracts, or even "Infernal Affairs" rush, the Ministry of Finance issued a special letter to the local procurement procedures to establish a "green channel."
在专家看来，此举有望逐步理顺海外采购工作，有效帮助国内医护物资供应。
In the view of experts, this is expected to gradually rationalize overseas procurement efforts, effectively helping the domestic supply of medical supplies.
全球华人都在找口罩“如果我还在医院工作，也会申请去一线的。
Chinese around the world are looking for masks. "If I were still working in a hospital, I'd apply to the front line, too.
”朱亚君说。
'he said.
做企业之前，朱亚君也是一名医生，如今告别医护一线，但能为过去的战友们寻找物资，这让他觉得自己仍是职业共同体的一员，“还是非常有意义的”。
Before he became a businessman, Zhu was also a doctor. Now he says goodbye to the front line of medical care, but is able to find supplies for his former comrades-in-arms.
从2月初开始，朱亚君和同事们在全球寻找口罩，帮一些缺乏资源和经验的地方政府度过难关。
Since early February, Mr. Zhu and his colleagues have been searching around the world for masks to help local governments that lack the resources and experience to weather the storm.
平时，一包10只装的普通医用口罩，零售价大约2—3元钱，但半个月后的今天，国外的口罩价格，已涨到每只3-4元，价格翻了10-20倍。
Normally, a pack of 10-pack of ordinary medical masks retail for about 2-3 yuan, but half a month later, the price of masks abroad has risen to 3-4 yuan per unit, and the price has increased 10-20 times.
2月14日，朱亚君通过一家贸易公司，从中东购进一批口罩，共计1000万只。
On February 14, Mr Zhu, through a trading company, bought 10 million masks from the Middle East.
这批货从中东的进货价是2.5元一只，但拿给他的价格又涨了1元，即3.5元一只。
The purchase price of the goods from the Middle East is 2.5 yuan each, but the price given to him has gone up by 1 yuan, or 3.5 yuan a piece.
当晚，货物还在运输途中，对方来电说，又被分走了一部分，留给他的只有五六百万只。
That night, while the cargo was still in transit, the caller said that it had been partially dispatched, leaving him with only five or six million.
湖南省卫健委一位人士原计划采购一批口罩，分发给本省的失独群体，他发动许多在国外的亲友，从欧盟、俄罗斯和加拿大找货，但是“想尽了办法”也未能如愿，只能向大家表示歉意，“好在特殊时期，大家也都能理解。
A member of the Hunan Health Commission planned to purchase a batch of masks for distribution to the province's dislocated groups. He launched many friends and relatives abroad looking for goods from the European Union, Russia and Canada, but "tried his best" failed to do so, offering apologies.
”这位人士告诉界面新闻，抗疫期间，许多企业不计成本，加入到海外采购物资的大军中。
The man told Interface News that during the battle against the disease, many companies had jumped into the ranks of overseas buyers, regardless of cost.
湖南三一集团在欧盟和俄罗斯大量“扫货”，直接动用飞机到发货地将物资运回黄花机场，再分发到武汉和湖南各地。
Hunan Trinity Group in the European Union and Russia a large number of "sweeps," directly from the aircraft to the point of shipment back to Huanghua airport, and then distributed throughout Wuhan and Hunan.
不久前，由阿联酋迪拜起飞的三一集团公务机，飞行7个多小时后到达长沙黄花机场，该公务机上没有一名乘客，满载的是4.2万套杜邦医用防护服。
Recently, the Trinity Group business jet, which took off from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, arrived at Changsha airport more than seven hours later without a single passenger on board and loaded with 42,000 sets of DuPont medical protective clothing.
海外华侨也在鼎力相助。
Overseas Chinese are also doing their best.
这位人士联系了加大籍华裔、如今已是加拿大议员的谭耕，对方连续十多天在当地组织募捐，采购物资再寄送到国内。
Mr. Tan, now a Canadian congressman of Chinese descent, was contacted for more than 10 days by local organizations seeking donations and sending goods back home.
加拿大籍华人企业家褚远征也发动企业家力量，捐赠大量口罩和其他物资。
Canadian Chinese Entrepreneurs OGI also mobilized entrepreneurial energy and donated large quantities of masks and other materials.
这位人士的一个朋友，春节期间正好在阿根廷旅行，获知国内爆发疫情，假期变成了采购之旅，“连续十多天没休息，每到一个地方就搜寻口罩。
A friend of the man, who was traveling in Argentina during the Spring Festival, learned that the outbreak of the disease in the country, the holiday into a shopping trip, "more than 10 days without rest, every place to search for masks.
”这趟下来，共计购买到8000多只口罩，最后全部捐给了国内抗疫一线。
More than 8,000 face masks were purchased during the trip, all of which were donated to China's first line of battle against the disease.
并不是所有人都能顺利从海外购买到口罩。
Not everyone can easily buy masks from overseas.
成都市民汪女士1月19日去柬埔寨与家人共度春节，当天从机场过关一切正常，也没见人带口罩，但第二天新闻爆出存在“人传人”，她发现朋友圈许多人四处买口罩。
Chengdu citizen Wang Wang went to Cambodia on January 19 to spend the Spring Festival with her family, from the airport on the same day everything is normal, did not see people wearing masks, but the next day there was "human-to-human," she found friends around a lot of people buy masks.
1月23日，她委托一位从国内到柬埔寨的朋友，带了一盒口罩供家人用。
On 23 January, she commissioned a friend from the country to Cambodia to bring a box of masks for her family.
此时，柬埔寨的一次性医用口罩，已经被炒到了20美金一盒，平时不到4美金。
At this point, Cambodia's disposable medical mask, has been fired to $20 a box, usually less than $4.
看到国内形势严峻，汪女士也想购买一些口罩捐赠和送朋友。
Seeing the situation in China is grim, Ms. Wang also wants to buy some masks to donate and give friends.
她通过私人关系，先后联系了泰国、卡塔尔、土耳其、德国等地的朋友，对方都告诉她，早就断货了。
She contacted friends in Thailand, Qatar, Turkey and Germany through personal contacts and told her that she had been out of stock for a long time.
一位卡塔尔的朋友对她说，“即使有货也不知道怎么弄回国，因为航班停了。
A Qatari friend told her, "I don't know how to get it back, even if we have it, because the flight stopped.
”后来，汪女士联系到一位韩国的朋友，对方的丈夫与一家口罩企业的老总相熟，答应卖给她3000只口罩。
Later, Ms. Wang contacted a South Korean friend whose husband, who knew the head of a mask-maker, agreed to sell her 3,000 face masks.
她赶紧将钱打过去，但几天后对方回复，韩国临时实施管制措施，禁止个人采购大批量口罩，“被砍单了（砍单，即海外购物时，下单后订单突然被取消）。
She hurriedly called the money, but a few days later she replied that South Korea temporarily imposed controls prohibiting individuals from purchasing large quantities of face masks.
”27万只口罩遭遇“无间道”即使顺利找到货，要购买成功并运输回国，中间仍存在诸多变数。
"Even if the products are found successfully, there are still many variables in between to make the purchase and transport them home.
口罩价格的波动，在中国尚有约束，但此次疫情成为全球事件，国外供货商“坐地起价”已是常态。
Fluctuations in mask prices are still constrained in China, but the outbreak has become a global event, with foreign suppliers "starting prices" becoming the norm.
有一次，朱亚君联系到一批口罩，出货价3元钱一只，但正在准备打款的一个小时内，对方突然加价。
On one occasion, Mr. Zhu contacted a group of masks and offered them for $3 each, but within an hour of preparing to make a withdrawal, the other party suddenly raised the price.
由于是帮助政府采购，朱亚君又需要重新协调各方意见，“心力交瘁”。
As he was helping with government procurement, Mr Zhu needed to rebalance his efforts, "exhausted."
更糟糕的事，货款打过去，约定了发货和到港时间，但等到他们去取货时，发现什么也没有，“这种放鸽子的情况也不少。
To make matters worse, the money was called in, and the time of shipment and arrival was agreed, but when they went to get the goods, they found nothing.
”成都某公司CEO彭帅从疫情大面积爆发开始，就协调各方资源，在美国、欧洲、日本和东南亚等国家搜寻口罩。
Peng Shuai, chief executive of a company in Chengdu, has coordinated resources to search for masks in the US, Europe, Japan and Southeast Asia since the outbreak began in large parts of the country.
他说，遇到关系好的供货方，在报价后会甩一句，“给你60分钟的时间考虑”。
'If you meet a good supplier, 'he says,' I'll give you 60 minutes to think about it. '
这60分钟后，可能又是另一个价格了。
After 60 minutes, it could be another price.
1月29日，彭帅和几个朋友在印尼雅加达找到一批货，支付货款后，约定对方1月31号发货，直接走国际物流。
January 29, Peng Shuai and a few friends found a shipment in Jakarta, Indonesia, pay for the goods, agreed to January 31 delivery, directly to the international logistics.
印尼许多口罩企业的原料都来自中国，而此时中国根本没有口罩原料出口，能找到这批现货，令彭帅颇为兴奋。
Peng Shuai was excited to find many of Indonesia's mask companies' raw materials coming from China at a time when the country had no raw materials to export.
但就在他们订货后不久，厂家突然联系他的朋友，问是不是委托人来现场提货。
But shortly after they ordered the goods, the manufacturer suddenly contacted his friend and asked if the client had come to pick up the goods.
对方称，提货的人拿出了提货单，上面的信息都非常准确。
According to the other party, the person taking delivery produced a bill of lading, the information on it is very accurate.
他的朋友大吃一惊，告诉对方没有委托任何人来提货，让其断然拒绝。
Surprised, his friend told him that no one had been asked to pick up the goods and asked him to refuse.
这位以彭帅和他朋友名义去提货的人是谁？他又是从何处获知采购信息的？这让彭帅非常惊讶。
Who was the man who went to pick up the goods in the name of Peng Shuai and his friends? Where did he get the purchase information? This surprised Peng Shuai.
不仅如此，这样冒领的情况还发生了第二次。
Not only that, but for the second time.
大家觉得事情不妙，担心运输途中出现意外，于是一再叮嘱厂家，先不发货，等他们的人亲自过去提货。
People thought things were not good, worried about accidents in transit, so repeatedly told manufacturers not to ship, wait for their people to pick up the goods.
为了防范不必要的风险，后面的沟通，他们都只打电话不发文字。
In order to guard against unnecessary risk, after the communication, they only make phone calls without writing.
这期间，有人开出了两三倍的价格要拿这批货，口罩厂老板也动摇了。
In the meantime, someone offered two or three times the price for the goods, and the owner of the mask factory wavered.
无奈之下，他们只能找在雅加达有名望的朋友出面沟通，才镇住这家口罩厂老板。
In desperation, they can only find a reputable friend in Jakarta to contact the owner of this mask factory.
1月31日晚，彭帅的一位朋友从新加坡亲自飞到雅加达，一下飞机就马不停蹄往厂家赶，但雅加达太堵了，他只能换乘摩托车。
On the night of January 31, a friend of Peng Shuai flew from Singapore to Jakarta, where he left the plane without stopping, but Jakarta was so blocked that he had to change to a motorbike.
276000只口罩，1358公斤，一共装了138箱。
276,000 masks, 1358 kg, 138 cases in total.
他们都非专业外贸人士，如何装卸、托运、存放、办什么手续，都需要自己搞定。
They are non-professional foreign trade personnel, how to load and unload, consign, store, do what procedures, need to be done by themselves.
庆幸的是，紧急关头各方都在协力支持，一个在华润集团工作的朋友，帮忙协调了可靠的物流渠道。
Fortunately, the emergency in all parties are working together to support, a friend working in China Run Group, to help coordinate reliable logistics channels.
他们亲自盯着口罩出库，装车，清点数目，然后小心翼翼“押送”到机场。
They stare at the masks, load them, count them, and "escort" them carefully to the airport.
当时，已经没有雅加达直飞北京的航班，只能先飞到新加坡，再转机到北京。
At the time, there were no direct flights from Jakarta to Beijing, only to Singapore and then to Beijing.
但他们在北京清点数量时，发现只有80箱，赶紧联系航空公司，原来是飞机舱位问题，第二天剩下了58箱也被寄送过来，大家虚惊一场。
However, when they counted the number in Beijing, they found that only 80 cases, contact the airline, originally the air space problem, the next day left 58 boxes were also sent, everyone dumbfounded.
海外采购机制将逐步理顺除了物资紧缺，价格变动，钱出不去也是个问题。
Offshore procurement mechanisms will gradually smooth out shortages, price changes, and the inability to get money out.
海外采购交易的对象，一般是海外企业，多数需以美金结算，此前中国对资本外流管制严厉，尤其是个人每年购买外汇有严格限额。
Foreign purchases are typically made to overseas companies, most of them denominated in US dollars, after China imposed strict controls on capital outflows and, in particular, strict limits on the annual purchase of foreign exchange by individuals.
在次轮海外采购过程中，给结算带来不少麻烦。
In the second round of overseas procurement process, to the settlement of a lot of trouble.
“你要通过这样那样的审批才能购汇，但货不等人，可能早就没有了。
"You have to go through one form or another to buy foreign exchange, but it probably won't be there before you wait."
”彭帅说。
"said Peng Shuai.
最近，他帮几家国有企业和地方政府在海外采购医疗物资，最终都卡在了钱无法出去上，“钱要是可以自己飞就好了。
Recently, he helped several state-owned enterprises and local governments procure medical supplies overseas, only to end up getting stuck in cash, "If only the money could fly by itself."
”他感叹。
'he exclaimed.
四川某公司负责采购的人士刘璐告诉界面新闻，外汇管制政策让许多地方政府和中小企业，只能寻求具有海外结算渠道的大企业帮助。
Liu Lu, a person in charge of purchasing in Sichuan, told Interface News that the exchange control policy allows many local governments and small and medium-sized enterprises to seek help only from large enterprises with overseas settlement channels.
甚至四川某市为采购大量医药物资，也只能委托日本企业伊藤洋华堂代为结算。
Even a city in Sichuan for the purchase of large quantities of medical supplies, also can only entrust Japanese enterprises Itoyama Hall clearing on behalf.
刘璐所在的公司在海外拥有分公司，结算相对便利。
Liu Lu's company has branches overseas and the settlement is relatively convenient.
从春节前，她所在的公司就接到大量地方政府和中小企业的求助，为此公司专门成立了一个负责采购的工作队伍，负责正在全球搜寻口罩和防护服。
Before the Spring Festival, her company had received help from many local governments and small and medium-sized enterprises. To that end, it had set up a procurement team to search for masks and protective clothing around the world.
“非常时期，对规则的僵化遵守，会耽误很多很多事情。
"In times of stress, rigid compliance with rules can delay a lot of things.
”彭帅说。
"said Peng Shuai.
这次协助地方政府采购物资期间，有好几次钱已付出，但迟了几分钟，货就被人拿走了。
Several payments were made during this assistance to the local government to procure supplies, but several minutes later the goods were taken.
前几天，彭帅的一个朋友一边在韩国工厂里督守，一边与国内某地方政府对接，“那边十万火急，而这边要一步一步走流程，结果流程没有走到1/3，货就没有了。
A few days ago, a friend of Peng Shuai in the South Korean factory superintendent, while docking with a local government there, "there is urgent, and this step-by-step process, the process has not reached one third, goods are gone.
”“如果我们还是按照甲方的采购心态，可能会贻误战机。
"" If we go along with Party A's procurement mentality, we may tarry the aircraft.
”彭帅说，海外采购没有发票，找人代付，都存在风险，“但问题是，我们是优先考虑规避风险，还是优先考虑解决问题？快速解决问题肯定要承受风险。
Peng said there were risks involved in buying overseas without invoices and finding someone to pay for them. "But the question is, do we give priority to risk aversion or to problem-solving?
”刘璐也有类似遭遇。
Liu Lu had a similar experience.
不久前，她帮助某地找资源，发现一批口罩后赶紧联系该地方政府对接人员，对方询问有无发票与合同等事项后，第二天才给她拿出一个方案。
Not long ago, she helped find resources somewhere, found a batch of masks quickly contact the local government docking personnel, ask for invoices and contracts, and then give her a plan the next day.
中国人民大学教授、政府采购专家刘丛虎向界面新闻分析，从2003年开始，中国政府实行“集中采购”制度，每个单位超过一定金额的物资，必须交给公共资源交易中心采购，且采购人员需要对审计负责。
Since 2003, the Chinese government has practiced a system of "centralized purchasing," whereby goods exceeding a certain amount of money per unit must be procured by the Central Committee for Trading in Public Resources, and the purchasing personnel must be held accountable for the audit.
一些地方政府的部门，既没有海外采购的渠道，也没有海外采购经验。
Some local government departments have neither overseas sourcing nor overseas procurement experience.
刘丛虎说，根据《政府采购法》的规定，海外采购即进口，在非紧急情况下，首先需要进行进口审批，其次再论证所进口物资确为国内无法满足，达到这两个条件后，才能启动采购程序。
According to the Government Procurement Law, overseas procurement, i.e. import, requires import approval in non-emergency situations, followed by an argument that the imported goods cannot be satisfied domestically, and that the procurement process can only be initiated if these two conditions are met, "Liu said.
他说，每次应邀去给政府讲课，都要提醒树立采购风险意识，长期以来，采购人员逐渐养成了谨慎的习惯。
'Every time I'm invited to lecture to the government, I want to remind myself of the procurement risks, 'he said.
加之渠道和经验的缺乏，在应对疫情初期物资采购方面难免被动，“这也是能理解的”。
Coupled with the lack of channels and experience, in the initial response to the epidemic in the procurement of materials inevitably passive, "this is understandable."
为此，他还专门撰写了一份内参递交给有关部门。
To this end, he also wrote a special internal reference to the relevant departments.
界面新闻注意到，1月26日，财政部下发《关于疫情防控采购便利化的通知》，要求“各级国家机关、事业单位和团体组织使用财政性资金采购疫情防控相关货物、工程和服务的，应以满足疫情防控工作需要为首要目标，建立采购‘绿色通道’，可不执行《政府采购法》规定的方式和程序，采购进口物资无需审批。
The Interface News noted that on January 26, the Ministry of Finance issued the Circular on the Facilitation of Procurement for the Prevention and Control of Epidemics, which requires that "state organs, institutions and organizations at all levels use financial funds to purchase goods, projects and services related to epidemic prevention and control.
”刘丛虎说，要改变政府人员对待采购工作的“惯性”，可能还需要时间；但这份“通知”相当于“尚方宝剑”，会免除政府人员在采购工作中的诸多顾虑，未来海外采购工作应该会逐步理顺。
Mr Liu said it might take time to change the inertia of government officials in dealing with procurement, but the "circular" would be tantamount to a "sword of Shangqiang," relieving officials of many procurement concerns, and future overseas procurement should be rationalized.
（应受访者要求，文中刘璐为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, Liu Lu in the text for alias) unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们在海外找口罩，遭遇价格飞涨、临时毁约、“无间道”抢购。
They are looking for masks overseas, hit by soaring prices, temporary contract breakage, "Infernal Affairs" snapping up.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "他们在海外找口罩，遭遇价格飞涨、临时毁约、“无间道”抢购";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by skyrocketing prices, temporary contract breakdowns, and Infernal Affairs.
var msg_desc = "面对价格飞涨、临时毁约，甚至“无间道”抢购等突发情况，财政部专门发文要求各地简化采购程序，建立采购“绿色通道”。
War msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在专家看来，此举有望逐步理顺海外采购工作，有效帮助国内医护物资供应。
In the view of experts, this is expected to gradually rationalize overseas procurement efforts, effectively helping the domestic supply of medical supplies.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
