火了一年的物业公司，到时候检验真正实力了。
Property companies after a year of fire, when the real strength of the test.
一条君。
A prince.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：傅林林“ 小区物业管理受到最严峻考验。
Reporter: Fu Lin Lin "estate management by the most severe test.
”2020年的春节因为疫情而显得格外特殊，足不出户和口罩成了标配，抖音里到处都是在家里旅游的段子。
The 2020 Spring Festival is special because of the epidemic, with housekeeping and masks becoming the norm, with chatter rife with passages from home tours.
但对于各个社区来说，物业从业者却要比任何时候都繁忙。
But for communities, property operators are busier than ever.
随着疫情的扩散，全国各地的小区也逐渐进入封闭状态。
With the spread of the epidemic, small areas throughout the country have also gradually entered the closed state.
截至目前，除湖北省内和北上广深一线城市外，杭州、南京、福州等多地也实施小区封闭式管理，封闭式管理的小区以及其他涉及人员聚集的物业成为抗击疫情的另一战场。
So far, in addition to cities on the northern and southern fronts of Hubei Province, Hangzhou, Nanjing and Fuzhou have also been put under closed management, and closed-managed small areas and other properties involving the concentration of people have become another battleground against the epidemic.
物业员工要面临前所未有的管理挑战，保证小区内部的环境安全、保障业主的生活供给，联动小区内外的联系。
Property staff should face unprecedented management challenges, to ensure the internal security of the residential area, to protect the living supply of owners, linked to the community and external links.
品牌开发商的物管在这场战役中表现得相当出色，这也让购房者重新审视物业的价值，为未来整个市场带来了新的增长点。
Brand developers have done quite well in this battle, which has also allowed home buyers to re-examine the value of property, bringing new growth for the future market as a whole.
尽管这个冬天有点冷，但物业行业的春天经过这次疫情后还会持续。
Although this winter is a bit cold, the property industry's spring will continue after the outbreak.
一线物业人“尽管离家只有15分钟车程，但从年三十起，我就没有回过家，一直住在项目上”，世茂天津生态城的物业经理刘刚表示，而这也成为这个春节假期物业员工的工作常态。
First-line property owners "I haven't been home since the age of 30 and have lived on the project since I was 30," said Liu Gang, the property manager at Tianjin Eco-City in Shimao, which has become the norm for property workers during the Spring Festival holiday.
在疫情期间，物业工作人员最主要的工作就是消毒与安保，“我们每天要进行3次全面消杀，像出入口、大堂、电梯、垃圾桶等重点处更是高频次地清洁消毒。
During the outbreak, disinfection and security were the main tasks of the property staff. "We have to carry out three full-scale exterminations every day, such as entrances, lobbies, elevators, garbage cans and other key areas of high frequency secondary cleaning and disinfection.
并且增设了口罩回收的专用垃圾桶，避免产生新的污染源”，刘刚表示。
And added a special dust bin for mask recycling to avoid new sources of pollution, "Liu said.
刘刚所在的天津生态城有124万平方米，住户达到了7455户，管理人员接近三万，工作强度非常大。
Liu Gang's Tianjin Eco-city has 1.24 million square meters, 7,455 households, nearly 30,000 managerial personnel, very intensive work.
在各地政府要求“封闭式管理”下，由于需要全时段和多频次进行小区内人流管控和公共区域消毒，相当于物业管理企业除自身职责之外还需要承担部分社会管理的责任，像快递员、外卖员都无法进入小区，一些物业人员就需要承担一部分他们的工作。
Under the "closed management" of local governments, the need for full-time and multi-frequency crowd control and disinfection of public areas means that property management enterprises, in addition to their own responsibilities, have to bear some of the responsibilities of social management, such as couriers, take-out staff can not enter the community, some property personnel have to bear a part of their work.
刘刚甚至自费购买了3000个N95口罩，免费发放给居民。
Liu Gang even bought 3,000 N95 masks at his own expense and distributed them to residents free of charge.
由于社区封闭，一些业主无法及时采购生活用品，社区的物业人员还会为业主送蔬菜、药品等生活用品。
As a result of the community closure, some owners are unable to timely procurement of daily necessities, community property staff will also be the owners of vegetables, medicines and other daily necessities.
一些开发商搭建的线上零售平台在疫情时期也给业主提供方便，像龙湖的U享家为业主提供了线上商城以购买家用。
Some developers build online retail platforms that also provide convenience to owners during the epidemic, such as the Long Lake U-Holder, which provides online shopping malls for homeowners to buy their homes.
除了生活上的保障，物业更重要的一项工作是要及时了解住户的健康情况。
Apart from living protection, it is more important for property owners to keep abreast of their health status.
青岛龙湖滟澜海岸有2700户业主，物业工作人员纪晓艳需要逐一对住户的家庭人员进行调查，截至到大年初三，滟澜海岸社区完成了96%以上的入住户摸排。
The Yan Lan coastal area of Qingdao has 2,700 owners. Property worker Ji Xiaoyan has to survey household staff one by one. By the end of the year, more than 96 percent of households in Yan Lan coastal community had completed the household mapping exercise.
而对于武汉归来的业主，除了每天常规体温询问外，纪晓艳还安排环境人员对业主家进行单独的消杀，并设置单独的垃圾桶，保证每日两次清理垃圾。
As for the owner returning from Wuhan, in addition to the daily routine temperature inquiry, Ji Xiaoyan also arranged for the owner's home to be individually sterilized, and set up a separate garbage bin to ensure that garbage is cleaned twice a day.
为了应对居民日常的求医需要，龙湖集团还联合“杏树林”私人医生推出龙湖社区线上问诊服务，“第一期龙湖智慧服务推出5000个免费线上问诊账号供业主使用。
In order to meet the daily medical needs of residents, Lung Wu Group also launched the Longhu Community Online Consultation Service in collaboration with the private doctor of Apricot Tree Forest.
相较于封闭式的小区，北京还有大量的老旧小区属于开放式，这无疑加大了管理的难度。
Beijing also has a large number of old neighborhoods that are open compared to closed ones, which undoubtedly makes management more difficult.
界面新闻走访了北京部分社区，发现一些开放式社区已经在部分入口设置围挡，只留下一个进出口，并且设置了监测站点，由居委会人员和部分志愿者值班，像快递等外来物品可以暂时存放在站点，由业主自行前来领取。
Interface News visited some communities in Beijing and found that some open communities have blocked some of the entrances, leaving only one entrance and exit, and set up monitoring stations where residents and some volunteers are on duty. Extrinsic items such as express delivery can be temporarily stored at the site and collected by the owner himself.
不过这些社区工作人员没有专业的防护设备，尽管配备了体温检测设备，但也并不对每个进出人员进行检测，对于外来物品只能提供简单的寄存和登记服务。
These community workers, however, do not have specialized protective equipment and, although equipped with body temperature testing equipment, do not screen every person entering or leaving the country and can only provide a simple storage and registration service for incoming items.
压力与责任由于正值假期，很多外地的物业员工早已回到老家，这导致了各个社区内人手短缺，留下来的员工就必须付出更多的时间工作。
Stress and Accountability Due to vacation days, many non-resident workers have returned to their homes, leaving communities short-staffed and with them having to work longer hours.
像纪晓艳每天要在项目待上将近20个小时，从清晨6点到凌晨结束，刚生完小孩的她，整个假期都无法照顾新生儿。
Like Ms. Ji, who spends nearly 20 hours a day on the program, from 6 a.m. to the end of the morning, she can't take care of a newborn baby for the rest of her life.
世茂天津的物业主管曹景浩向界面新闻表示：“压力最大的时候是小区封闭，7400多户业主，留在天津过年的也有2000多户，大量业主的需求都落在了物业的肩上，再加上需要维护秩序，保证日常的物业运转，基本上在现场的工作人员都是连轴转，虽然一些员工申请回岗，但很多地方交通都封了，所以人手比较缺。
Cao Jinghao, the property director of Shimao Tianjin, told the Interface News: "The most stressful time was the closure of the area, with more than 7,400 owners staying in Tianjin for the Lunar New Year.
”部分企业在人手短缺情况下通过内部动员的方式解决，融创服务武汉副总经理李西山表示：“疫情之下，很多业主家物资都见底了，我们组织送菜人手不够用，我在群里发消息，动员更多家在附近的同事回来。
"Some enterprises in the shortage of staff through internal mobilization to solve the problem, Wuhan Vice-President of the integration services Li Xishan said:" Under the epidemic, many owners of goods have bottomed out, we do not have enough staff to organize food delivery, I sent messages in the group to mobilize more colleagues from the nearby.
让我感动的是，倡议发出后，一条条微信进来，没有人推诿，反而都在想着法子往这边赶。
I was moved by the fact that after the launch of the initiative, one letter after another came in, no one prevaricated, but were trying to get there.
第二天，通知到的团队，全部到位。
The next day, the team notified, all in place.
”人手不够的情况在逐步缓解，但保证物业工作人员的物资供应就没那么容易了。
The shortage of staff is gradually easing, but it is not so easy to secure supplies for property staff.
曹景浩向界面新闻表示：“这些冲在一线的员工的安全至关重要，世茂物业华北公司会有集中的物资调配，但区域公司要负责的城市很多，我们也在自己寻求渠道采购。
"The safety of these frontline staff is crucial," Cao told the Interface News. "There will be a concentration of supplies in Shimao North China, but the regional companies will be responsible for a large number of cities, and we are looking for our own sources of procurement."
”疫情期间，世茂天津生态城就采购了6台脉冲弥雾机，口罩存量4000只，“口罩之前我们会分发给物资比较缺乏的住户，但现在这批物资要先保证一线工作人员使用。
During the outbreak, Shimao Tianjin Eco-City purchased six pulse misters with a stock of 4,000 masks. "We will distribute them to households with fewer supplies before they are needed, but now we need to ensure that they are used by front-line workers."
”值得一提的是，经过记者采访发现，世茂、龙湖等项目上，都存在业主主动捐助物资给物业员工的情况。
"It is worth mentioning that the reporter interviewed found that Shimao, Longhu and other projects, owners have voluntarily donated materials to property staff.
但最近各类社交平台上，仍不时会出现一些人不听物业劝阻，不戴口罩或者不理解工作人员的情况，甚至会对一线工作人员动手。
More recently, however, there have been frequent instances on various social platforms of people who do not listen to property advice, do not wear masks or understand the situation of staff and even engage with front-line staff.
这极大的增加了一线物业人员的工作压力。
This greatly increased the front-line property staff working pressure.
龙湖成都一位项目物业人员向界面新闻表示：“前期我在门岗办理五色卡，遇到一户业主不配合，多次沟通解释后业主依然不理解，并且拨打市政热线投诉此事。
"I was in front of the door to handle five color cards, encountered a home owners do not cooperate, after many communication explanations, owners still do not understand, and called the municipal hotline to complain about the matter.
之后社区和派出所了解情况后，与我一起上户与业主沟通，并表示目前疫情严峻，需要广大业主的配合，最终得到业主认可。
After the community and police stations understand the situation, and I together with the owner of communication, and said that the current epidemic is serious, the majority of owners need to cooperate, and finally get the owner's approval.
”随着疫情扩散，大部分业主认识到事态严重，还是会自觉配合物业，但更为困难的是安抚业主的恐慌情绪。
"As the epidemic spreads, most homeowners recognize the seriousness of the situation and will voluntarily cooperate with the property, but what is more difficult is to calm the owners' fears.
曹景浩负责的天津一个小区附近有一例确诊病例，而且也有湖北返回的业主，“很多业主知道后会出现恐慌情绪，会问各种各样的问题，这种情况，我们只能加强沟通，给业主信心，另外要更严格做好防疫工作。
"Many owners will have panic attacks and will ask all kinds of questions. In this case, we can only strengthen communication, give confidence to the owners and do a better job of epidemic prevention."
”隔离观察的湖北返回业主也给他们造成了不小压力，“毕竟没有这方面的经验，除了保证他们的生活物资供应，以及处理其生活垃圾，还要时刻关注他们的身体情况，这些业主也能够主动消毒，做到自我保护，目前隔离期已过，没有发现异常。
"After all, there is no experience in this regard," he said. "In addition to ensuring the supply of goods and materials and handling their household waste, as well as keeping an eye on their physical condition, these owners can voluntarily disinfect themselves and protect themselves.
”物管的前景经过这场战役，很多物业公司的管理水平能够得到清晰的体现，而这场疫情或许也会重塑物管行业的标准。
After this battle, the management of many property companies can be clearly reflected, and the epidemic may also reshape the industry's standards.
根据中指报告显示，此次应对疫情，中国物业管理协会陆续出台了行业标准，以指导各类物业公司的防控疫情，另外，企业内部也制定了一系列的标准，诸如空调通风系统、电梯按键防疫、废弃物集中收集作业等。
In response to the outbreak, the China Property Management Association has issued industry standards to guide property management companies in the prevention and control of the epidemic, according to the middle finger report.
而在这场疫情中，智慧化得以应用于实战。
And in this epidemic, intelligence has been applied to actual warfare.
比如2019年7月，杭州筑家易与合肥市荷叶地街道合作，在金荷社区陶然居小区打造安徽首个支付宝智慧社区。
For example, in July 2019, Hangzhou Jiayi City and Hefei City lotus street cooperation, in Jinhe community Tao Ran residential area to build Anhui's first pay treasure wisdom community.
智慧社区系统通过从后台调取身份证号为重点疫情地区的居民，上报至社区，让社区可以第一时间锁定此类重点人群，并进行追踪。
The Smart Community System allows communities to target and track such key populations for the first time by retrieving identity numbers from the backstage and reporting them to the community.
当此类人员在系统中添加访客时，后台系统可以立即锁定，社区工作人员及时致电询问访客是否来自重点疫情地区，让基层工作针对性更强，效率更高。
When such personnel add visitors to the system, the back-office system can be locked in immediately, and community workers call to ask if visitors are from priority epidemic areas to make grass-roots work more targeted and efficient.
居民还可以通过系统中的“事件上报”功能，对小区内消毒杀菌不到位、出现重点疫情地区车牌、发现重点疫情地区返肥人员等信息进行一键上报，物业收到信息一定时间未处理反馈的，后台将推送至社区，让社区督促处理。
Through the "incident report" function in the system, residents can also report information such as disinfection and sterilization not in place in small areas, registration plates in key epidemic areas, and returning fat workers in key epidemic areas. If the property receives information that is not processed at a certain time, the backstage will be pushed back to the community for processing.
目前，尽管大部分小区门口设置的监测站点都有物业和社区的人员，但大部分都是手动监测，在线下登记，统一回收上报，而上述案例或许会为今后社区与物业的配合管理开辟新的模式。
At present, although most of the monitoring stations set up in front of the community have real estate and community personnel, most of them are manually monitored, registered online and reported as a unified recovery, and the above cases may open up new models for collaborative community and property management in the future.
中指的报告也指出，此次疫情会倒逼智慧化再升级。
The middle finger report also points out that this outbreak will force the wisdom to escalate.
大量的人力物业集中投入，这次疫情也给物业企业带来了不小的成本压力，但好在一些地方政府已经及时出台相应的扶持政策。
A large number of manpower and property concentrated investment, this outbreak of property enterprises also brought no small cost pressure, but fortunately some local governments have timely introduced corresponding support policies.
2月8日和10日，深圳市政府和杭州市政府分别发文加大对参与疫情防控工作的物业服务企业，按照在管面积0.5元/平方米的标准给予两个月财政补助。
On February 8 and 10, the Shenzhen Municipal Government and Hangzhou Municipal Government issued letters to increase financial assistance to property service enterprises involved in the prevention and control of the epidemic for two months on the basis of 0.5 yuan per square metre of pipe area.
中信建投认为，2018年中指百强物业企业平均物业费4.22元/平/月，本次补助金额占比11.8%，可以一定程度上缓解两地物管企业现金流支出的压力、改善财务净利润率。
According to Citic Construction Investment, the average property management fee of the top 100 property enterprises in 2018 is 4.22 yuan / flat / month, and the amount of this subsidy is 11.8%, which can alleviate the pressure of cash flow expenditure and improve the financial net profit margin of the two companies.
相对而言，业态上住宅、学校、产业园等物业单价较低的物管企业受益更大。
Relatively speaking, the industry housing, schools, industrial parks and other properties lower unit price property management enterprises benefit more.
中信建投还认为之后其他城市也可能跟进。
Citic Construction also believes other cities may follow suit.
一些物业公司在这次疫情中的良好表现，也直接反应到了港股上市物业公司的股价上，近期几乎都是一路走高。
Some property companies in the outbreak of good performance, also directly reflected in the Hong Kong-listed property companies share price, almost all the way up in the recent period.
截至2月13日收盘，滨江服务上涨7.91%，碧桂园服务上涨1.63%，绿城服务上涨2.95%，保利物业上涨1.35%，奥园健康上涨6.52%，新城悦服务上涨0.49%。
As of February 13, Binjiang services rose 7.91 percent, Bi Gui Garden services up 1.63 percent, Green City services up 2.95 percent, Poly Property up 1.35 percent, Orchard Health up 6.52 percent, and New Town Hyatt Service up 0.49 percent.
美银美林发布报告称，内地物业管理服务行业的主营业务维持稳健，预计物管商的盈喜及政策支持有助支撑股价。
BofA Merrill Lynch reported that the mainland property management services industry's main business remains robust, and that the property manager's earnings and policy support are expected to support the stock price.
中信建投也分析认为，疫情对物管公司收入端几乎没有影响，对毛利率影响也较为有限，且疫情催生对专业的品牌物业公司的需求，中期拓展蓝海无限。
CITIC Construction also believes that the epidemic on the revenue side of the company has little impact on the gross margin, and the outbreak of the epidemic to the professional brand property companies demand, the medium-term expansion of the blue sea unlimited.
从收入端来看，住宅物管的非业主增值服务收入可能因为开盘延后而出现暂时性减少，但长期来看只是延后而不会缺失，并且由于物管费支付和竣工交付相对刚性，物业管理基础收入仍有保障。
On the revenue side, non-owner value-added service income from residential property management may decrease temporarily due to late opening, but in the long run it is only delayed and not missing, and property management base revenue is still guaranteed due to the relatively rigid payment and delivery of property management fees.
在成本端，主要的影响来自于疫情期间人工工资和防疫物料消耗成本的上升。
On the cost side, the main impact comes from the increase in labor costs and epidemic prevention costs during the epidemic.
但是实际中部分成本可以转嫁给业主，例如对于服务公建类物业的物管公司而言，甲方自身会提供大量防疫物资，因此成本实际上升程度会比预期少，整体而言对毛利率影响有限。
However, some of the actual costs can be passed on to the owners. For example, in the case of a property management company serving a public property, Party A will itself provide a large quantity of epidemic prevention materials, so the actual cost increase will be less than expected and the overall impact on the gross margin will be limited.
更为主要的是，物业的价值通过这次疫情得到了很好的释放，未来，具备专业性的品牌化、规范化物管企业在拓展中更具竞争力。
More importantly, the value of the property through this epidemic has been well released, in the future, with a professional brand, standardized material management enterprises in the expansion of more competitive.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火了一年的物业公司，到时候检验真正实力了。
Property companies after a year of fire, when the real strength of the test.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "火了一年的物业公司，到时候检验真正实力了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "小区物业管理受到最严峻考验。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Estate property management was the hardest test.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
