我计划了3个月的春节日本游，变成了一次寻购口罩之旅。
I planned my 3-month trip to Japan for the Spring Festival, which turned into a mask-hunting trip.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
日本街头。
Street in Japan.
来源：受访者提供记者：卢奕贝 编辑：昝慧昉“ 郑一加入了沉默着的中国游客队伍，排队购买口罩。
www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn (www.youtheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn)
她抬头，发现店铺的门口用中文写着几句，“加油啊，武汉加油啊，中国加油”。
She looked up, found the store door in Chinese to write a few words, "Come on, Wuhan refueling, China refueling."
”这是郑一第一次去日本。
It was Zheng's first trip to Japan.
提前3个月，她和同行的兄妹三人早早请好年假，预定了酒店机票，打算在春节期间来一次为期15天的日本深度自由行。
Three months in advance, she and her brother and sister took good annual leave, booked hotel tickets and planned a 15-day trip to Japan during the Spring Festival.
1月18日，飞行3000公里，郑一第一次踏上了东京的土地。
On January 18th, flying 3,000 kilometers, Zheng first set foot on Tokyo's soil.
她喜欢日本街头的干净整洁，喜欢浅草寺、银座、表参道的风情各异，也喜欢日本人在各个角落摆放的“鼠”类吉祥物——这是日本人欢迎中国游客的可爱表达。
She likes the cleanliness and tidiness of the streets of Japan, the different amorous feelings of the Shallow Grass Monastery, the Ginza and the watch, as well as the "rat" mascots displayed in every corner of Japan - a lovely expression for Japanese to welcome Chinese tourists.
这时，郑一唯一的烦恼，就是刺身吃太多，有点拉肚子。
At this time, Zheng Yi's only worry is that sashimi eat too much, a little diarrhea.
但2天后，整个世界开始变得魔幻。
But two days later, the world began to turn magical.
1月20日，钟南山院士在接受央视新闻采访时，发布了令人震惊的信息：新型冠状病毒肺炎存在人传人现象。
In an interview with CCTV News on January 20, academician Zhong Nan Shan gave the shocking news that the new coronavirus pneumonia exists from person to person.
截止当晚24时，根据国家卫健委的数据，国内4省（区、市）累计确诊291例（湖北省270例，北京市5例，广东省14例，上海市2例），以及日本1例，泰国2例，韩国1例。
By 2400, 291 cases (270 in Hubei province, 5 in Beijing, 14 in Guangdong Province and 2 in Shanghai) had been diagnosed in four provinces (districts and cities), according to the National Health Commission, as well as one case in Japan, two cases in Thailand and one case in South Korea.
郑一的手机一直疯狂震动，各类新闻在无数个微信群里转发。
Zheng Yi's mobile phone has been frantically vibrating, all kinds of news in countless micro-letter groups forward.
她的家族群立刻开始确认家里有多少酒精、口罩，互相叮嘱千万不要出门、不要乱跑、不要聚集。
Her family immediately began to confirm how much alcohol and masks were in the house, telling each other never to go out, run, or gather.
手机这一头郑一所在的日本也跟着紧张起来。
Mobile phone this end of Zheng Yi's Japan also followed the tension.
在东京的酒店里，有日本电视台滚动播报肺炎相关信息，称已经有几十万中国人抵达了日本。
At a hotel in Tokyo, Japanese television is rolling pneumonia-related messages, saying hundreds of thousands of Chinese have arrived.
日本原本就是中国人春节最爱去的海外国家之一。
Japan was originally one of the most popular overseas countries for Chinese New Year.
据日本出入国在留管理厅统计，2019年2月份（包括春节期间）的中国访日游客达到65万人。
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 650,000 Chinese tourists visited Japan in February 2019, including during the Spring Festival.
但2020年的这个春节，中国人的出境游被中途叫停。
But in 2020, the Spring Festival, the Chinese people's outbound travel was stopped.
1月25日，中国旅行社协会发布消息称，即日起全国旅行社及在线旅游企业暂停经营团队旅游及“机票＋酒店”产品。
On January 25, the China Travel Service Association (CATA) announced the suspension of group travel and "air ticket + hotel" products by travel agencies and online tourism enterprises across the country.
1月27日后，包括出境游在内的所有团队游及“机+酒”服务全部暂停。
After January 27, all group tours, including outbound tours, and "Airbus + Wine" services were suspended.
中国访日游客数量减少，让日本的旅游业遭遇巨变。
Tourism in Japan has been rocked by a drop in Chinese visitors to the country.
2月4日，日本旅游行业协会指出，众多中国旅行团已经取消3月底前的赴日旅行，预计未能按原计划出行的中国游客总数将超40万。
On February 4, the Japan Travel Industry Association said many Chinese tours had cancelled their trips to Japan before the end of March, and the total number of Chinese tourists who failed to travel as originally planned was expected to exceed 400,000.
反应是连锁的。
The reactions are interlocking.
日本百货店春节假期免税销售额遭遇两位数下滑，日本酒店入住率锐减，就连奈良公园里面的梅花鹿也遭遇“断粮”。
Japanese department stores suffered double-digit drops in duty-free sales during the Spring Festival, hotel occupancy in Japan fell sharply, and even deer in Nara Park suffered a "food cut."
但当时身在日本的郑一，并没有意识到未来会有这样的变化。
But Zheng Yi, who was in Japan at the time, was unaware of such a change in the future.
她唯一可以确定的是，他们在日本的行程需要改变了。
The only thing she can be sure of is that their itinerary in Japan needs to change.
据郑一观察，20号以前的东京，除了在交通工具上，有少数日本人因本身习惯的原因戴口罩之外，在景点戴口罩的人仅有10%不到。
Before the 20th, only 10% of Japanese wore masks in scenic spots, except for transportation, Zheng observed.
而在那之后，日本街头，只要看起来像是华人的脸上，都戴了口罩。
After that, the streets of Japan wore masks whenever they looked like Chinese faces.
1月28日，景点里的游客们纷纷戴上了口罩。
Tourists at the scenic spots put on masks on January 28.
来源：受访者提供此时，国内的社交网络上已经开始蔓延着“口罩涨价”、“口罩还能发货吗？”、“问了几家才有口罩卖”的言论。
Sources: Respondents provided comments on social networking sites across the country such as "mask price increases," "Can masks still be delivered?" and "Only if a few masks are sold."
本该沉浸于日本赏景的惬意，被手机里每天变化的疫情消息打乱了，原本没有安排什么购物行程的郑一兄妹三人，决定前往药妆店买点口罩带回家。
Ought to be immersed in the Japanese scenery, the mobile phone daily change in the news, the three did not plan shopping trip, decided to go to the makeup shop to buy some masks to take home.
但到底买什么型号的口罩才能防御新冠肺炎病毒，也让郑一三人迷茫了许久。
But after all buy what type of mask can defend the new crown pneumonia virus, also let Zheng three people confused for a long time.
在忙乱地查询了一番资料后，各种专业名词只令他们更混乱。
After a frantic search of the data, the various technical terms only add to their confusion.
最终，他们向曾经租过车的日本司机求助，才知道该买BFE、VFE、PFE三种型号的口罩。
Eventually, they asked Japanese drivers who had rented cars for help to buy three types of masks: BFE, VFE and PFE.
自27号开始，他们踏入了“寻购口罩模式”。
From the 27th, they entered the "search for masks mode."
从京都到大阪，每一天只要路过了药妆店，郑一都会进去看看有没有口罩可以买。
Every day, from Kyoto to Osaka, Zheng Yi goes into the dressing shop to see if he can buy a mask.
但这并不容易，大量已经来到日本的中国游客和日本当地人一起，买空了大部分药妆店的口罩库存。
But it wasn't easy, as a large number of Chinese tourists who had come to Japan, along with locals, emptied most of the makeup shop's mask stock.
不久日本口罩也开始限购了。
Soon, Japanese masks began to be restricted.
郑一在起初并没有看到任何购买口罩的限制，但随着众人的抢购，有些店铺开始每人限购两盒或者三盒。
Zheng didn't see any restrictions on buying masks at first, but as the crowd snapped up, some stores began to limit their purchases to two or three boxes each.
尽管如此，口罩仍然频频售罄。
Still, masks are frequently sold out.
每每看见药妆店门口贴着“口罩售罄”的告示，郑一都会担心后面会不会买不到。
Often see medicine makeup shop door affixed "mask sold out" notice, Zheng Yi will worry about the back will not be able to buy.
因为她家里成员众多，只采买几盒恐怕不够全家所需。
With so many members of her family, I'm afraid she won't be able to buy more than her family needs.
同时，还有许多知道她人在日本的朋友，询问能不能帮忙代购，信息蜂拥而至。
At the same time, there were many friends who knew her in Japan and asked if she could help with the purchase.
“本以为会有人找我代购化妆品的，没想到会变成口罩”郑一打趣道。
"I thought someone would find me to buy cosmetics, did not expect to become a mask," Zheng Yidong joked.
但她也的确爱莫能助。
But she can't help either.
郑一每天都要逛上三、四家药妆店，几天内就跑了上十家店铺。
Zheng Yi visited three or four cosmetics shops every day, and within a few days ran up to ten shops.
但是买到的口罩连家人所需都不够。
But the masks you buy don't even have enough for your family.
“每一家都缺货”郑一对界面新闻说。
"Every house is out of stock," said Zheng An Interface News.
1月31日，日本药店口罩缺货。
On January 31, Japanese drugstore masks were out of stock.
来源：受访者提供站在大阪街头，买不到口罩的郑一，无奈拦下路人询问。
Source: The interviewee offered Zheng Yi, who was standing on the street in Osaka and could not buy a mask, but stopped passersby for questioning.
那是一家香港人，他们告诉郑一，要买口罩，得一大早出门寻找，并向她展示了他们早早起床抢到、拎着走了一天的一袋口罩。
It was a Hong Kong family who told Zheng Yi that they had to go out early in the morning to look for a mask and showed her a bag that they had grabbed and carried all day.
郑一根据他们的说法，最终找到了有货的店铺，她加入了沉默着的中国游客队伍排队等待。
According to them, Zheng finally found a store with goods, and she joined the silent Chinese tourists waiting in line.
她抬头，发现店铺的门口用中文写着几句，“加油啊，武汉加油啊，中国加油”。
She looked up, found the store door in Chinese to write a few words, "Come on, Wuhan refueling, China refueling."
这并不是单一店铺的行为。
This is not the behaviour of a single shop.
疫情爆发、尤其是日本也通报确诊病例后，日本各地口罩的销量开始激增，虽然涌入药妆店购买口罩的大部分都是华人，但日本的药妆店并没有趁机哄抬价格，很多店家都在店门口贴出了“中国加油”的字样。
After the outbreak, particularly in Japan, where confirmed cases were reported, sales of face masks began to surge, and while most of the people who poured into the stores were Chinese, the store didn't take the opportunity to bid up prices.
日本捐助的口罩，也为在春节期间工厂放假的中国，解了燃眉之急。
Japan donated masks, also during the Spring Festival factory holiday in China, solved the urgent need.
自1月25日，第一架装载有日本民间捐助的100万只防疫口罩的飞机抵达成都双流国际机场开始，日本各地、各界陆续捐赠了大量的防疫物资，并用诗句来表达祝福。
Since Jan. 25, the first plane carrying one million face masks donated by Japanese civilians has arrived at Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport. Numerous epidemic prevention materials have been donated throughout Japan, and verses have been used to express the blessing.
“辽河雪融，富山花开；同气连枝，共盼春来。
"Liaohe melting snow, rich mountain blossoms; Qi linked branches, a total of spring.
”“岂曰无衣，与子同裳。
"To be clothed and to be clothed with the child.
”最终，郑一兄妹三人的行李箱、随身携带的背包里，只要有空余的地方，都挤满了口罩。
Eventually, Zheng's brothers and sisters were packed with masks in their suitcases and backpacks whenever there was room.
2月1日，郑一踏上归国的路途，此时的机场已经与她来时大不相同，只要是亚洲人，都戴上了口罩，有位欧美人，甚至戴上了护目镜。
On February 1, Zheng set out on his way home at a time when the airport was very different from hers, as long as the Asians were wearing masks, a European and American, even goggles.
而她的战疫，才刚刚开始。
And her epidemic had only just begun.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我计划了3个月的春节日本游，变成了一次寻购口罩之旅。
I planned my 3-month trip to Japan for the Spring Festival, which turned into a mask-hunting trip.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "我计划了3个月的春节日本游，变成了一次寻购口罩之旅";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I planned a three-month trip to Japan for the Spring Festival, turning into a mask-hunting trip.;
var msg_desc = "郑一加入了沉默着的中国游客队伍，排队购买口罩。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Zheng joined a silent group of Chinese tourists and queued up to buy a mask.
她抬头，发现店铺的门口用中文写着几句，“加油啊，武汉加油啊，中国加油”。
She looked up, found the store door in Chinese to write a few words, "Come on, Wuhan refueling, China refueling."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
