从不生病的72岁健美冠军，确诊后4天离世。
The 72-year-old bodybuilder, who never got sick, died four days after his diagnosis.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 沈文迪邱钧给人的印象，大多和健身有关——每天早上拎着装有哑铃和水杯的红色布袋出现在公园，在健身器材上上下翻飞；下午又来到健身房，和“小徒弟们”挥汗如雨，间歇能一口气吃下七八个水煮鸡蛋；又或者是在各地的健美比赛中，浑身涂满橄榄油的他展示着与年龄不相符的傲人肌肉。
Shen Wendi Qiu Jun, a journalist who surges, mostly has to do with fitness - carrying a red cloth bag with dumbbells and water cups in the park every morning and flipping up and down on exercise equipment; coming to the gym in the afternoon to drink seven or eight boiled eggs at a stretch with sweat.
认识邱钧的人至今都不愿相信，这个身高一米七、走起路来虎虎生风的健身达人，竟然会在一夜之间输给新冠肺炎。
Those who know Qiu Jun are still reluctant to believe that the 7-meter-tall fitness man who walks like a tiger will lose to the New Crown Pneumonia overnight.
但他们回头一想，邱钧已经72岁了，再强健的肌肉，也敌不过岁月和疾病的侵蚀。
But they looked back and thought that Qiu Jun was already 72 years old and that his muscular muscles were no match for years and disease.
从1月24日发现病情到确诊新冠肺炎入院，邱钧用了11天。
It took Qiu Jun 11 days between the discovery of the disease on January 24 and the confirmation of admission to hospital for Newcomial Pneumonia.
住院3天后，他便匆匆离世。
After three days in hospital, he died in a hurry.
健美冠军上世纪50年代，邱钧随当兵的父亲从福州来到武汉汉口。
Champion of bodybuilding in the 1950s, Qiu Jun accompanied the father of soldiers from Fuzhou to Hankou Wuhan.
受生活环境影响，每天他看着士兵们出操、跑步，便也跟着效仿学习。
Affected by his life, he watched the soldiers do exercises and run every day, and followed suit.
中专毕业后，16岁的邱钧进入武昌车辆厂，从工人一直干到运输车司机，他始终兢兢业业。
After graduating from secondary school, Qiu Jun, 16, entered Wuchang Vehicle Factory, from workers to transport drivers, he has always been conscientious.
单调的生活之余，他喜欢去操场上跑上十来圈，俯卧撑和引体向上是他少有的娱乐。
After his monotonous life, he liked to run a dozen laps on the playground. Push-ups and body-lifting were few of his pleasures.
1990年，邱钧代表厂里参加湖北省第一届健美大赛，并拿到全省第五的成绩。
In 1990, Qiu Jun represented the factory in Hubei Province's first fitness competition, and got the province's fifth results.
从此，他迷上了健美。
From then on, he fell in love with bodybuilding.
2003年非典爆发之际，邱钧从厂里退休，两年后他的妻子过世，他和唯一的女儿邱玥相依为命，好在还有健身这个爱好，他开启了一条不同寻常的老年生活。
When SARS broke out in 2003, Qiu Jun retired from the factory and died two years later of his wife, who lived with his only daughter, Qiu Lie. Fortunately, he also had a hobby of fitness that opened an unusual old age.
海容涛在2011年与邱玥相识相爱，一年后他们开始谈婚论嫁。
Mr Hai met Mr Qiu in 2011 and began a year later to get married.
当邱玥介绍起父亲时，一脸自豪。
Qiu was proud of himself when he introduced his father.
海容涛第一次看到未来岳父的照片时又惊又喜，觉得原来真有人这么大年纪还能保持这么好的身材。
When Hai Yung-tao first saw the picture of his future father-in-law, he was surprised and pleased to see that someone could still be in such good shape at this age.
女婿上门的时间比预计的推迟了三个月，那段时间邱钧正在准备健美比赛，每天都泡在健身房里，同时必须严格控制饮食。
His son-in-law was three months behind schedule as he prepared for a fitness competition, spending every day in the gym and being on a strict diet.
等比赛过后，邱钧这才精心布置了家里，准备了十道菜，邀请女婿上门。
After the game, Qiu Jun this meticulous arrangement of the family, prepared ten dishes, invited the son-in-law to the door.
刚结束健美比赛的邱钧。
Just finished the fitness competition Qiu Jun.
受访者供图邱钧每天早早起床，吃的都是蒸馒头、红薯、鸡蛋和番茄，随后把健身器材装进布袋，风风火火地就往公园赶。
The respondents used steamed buns, sweet potatoes, eggs and tomatoes to get up early every day. They packed the exercise equipment into cloth bags and hurried to the park.
公园里有个健身角，每当邱钧露出肌肉，总会引来路人围观、拍照。
In the park there is a fitness corner, whenever Qiu Jun exposed the muscles, will attract pedestrians around, take photos.
等到下午，邱钧又出现在健身房，与每个前来锻炼的人打着招呼，不管男女老少、中国人还是外国人，每到一个健身房，他总能迅速认识一帮朋友、徒弟或者粉丝。
By the afternoon, Qiu Jun was back at the gym again, greeting everyone who came to the gym, men and women, young and old, Chinese and foreign, to get to know a bunch of friends, apprentices or fans.
海容涛说，在家里邱钧是个不善言辞的老人，从来都是说得少、做得多。
Hai Yung-tao said that Qiu Jun was an unspeakable old man at home who always said little and did much more.
但到了公园或健身房，他就变了个人，好像年轻了40岁，滔滔不绝地跟人探讨如何规范动作、使用器材，并经常指导、矫正新手的动作。
But by the time he got to the park or the gym, he was a changed man, a man as young as 40, who kept on talking about how to regulate his movements, use equipment and constantly guide and correct the movements of beginners.
在健身房指导他人的邱钧。
Instruct others in the gym for Qiu Jun.
图来自凤凰网结婚后，原本体重将近180斤的海容涛在岳父的带领下一同锻炼，三个月内减了30斤。
Photo from Phoenix Internet marriage, the original weight of nearly 180 jin in the father-in-law under the leadership of exercise together, three months lost 30 jin.
2016年，他们全家报名了武汉马拉松赛，邱钧和邱玥参加的是健康跑，海容涛报名跑全程马拉松。
In 2016, the whole family signed up for the Wuhan Marathon, with Qiu Jun and Qiu Yuye running healthy and Hai Yongtao enrolling for the full marathon.
在健康跑结束后，父女俩坐着地铁来到终点等待着海容涛。
After the run, father and daughter took the subway to the finish line and waited for the sea.
此时已经跑了42公里的海容涛已经筋疲力尽，每一步都艰难蹒跚。
Already ran 42 kilometers of sea surf already exhausted, each step is difficult hobble.
但当他看到终点前100多米为他振臂加油的妻子和岳父时，他形容自己“就像在沙漠里喝到了甘甜的水”，全力完成了冲刺。
But when he saw his wife and father-in-law, who cheered his arms more than 100 meters ahead of the finish line, he described himself as "drinking sweet water in the desert" and trying to finish the sprint.
“那个瞬间应该是我们家最温馨、最动人的一个场景了。
"That moment would have been the sweetest and most moving scene in our family.
”海容涛说。
"said Hai Rongtao.
除此以外，邱钧经常会外出参加健美比赛，海容涛全程陪同，在比赛中到处寻找好的拍摄角度，记录下岳父的光辉时刻。
In addition, Qiu Jun will often go out to participate in fitness competitions, Hai Yung Tao accompanied the whole course, in the competition to look for good photography angle, take down his father-in-law's glorious moment.
去年邱钧在北京的一次比赛中获得了元老级别的金牌，那是岳父最高兴的一次，开心得像个孩子，把硕大的奖牌挂在身前，走到风景合适处，便停下说，“来容涛，照张相。
Last year, Qiu Jun won the gold medal at the senate level in a competition in Beijing. It was the happiest time for his father-in-law. He was as happy as a child.
”随后掀起了上衣、摆起了pose。
"Then he lifted his coat and put on a pose.
在2019年参加完淮安“奥赛之夜”的健美比赛后，回程路上海容涛对岳父说，爸，我回去也练练，下次跟你一起参加比赛。
After attending the Huaian "Odyssey Night" aerobics competition in 2019, Shanghai Rongtao said to his father-in-law on the way back.
邱钧连忙答应，“赶紧搞啊！”如果不出意外，他们会一同参加2020年6月在南京举办的“奥赛之夜”健美比赛。
Qiu Jun hurriedly agreed, "Do it quickly!" If not unexpected, they will participate in the "Odyssey Night" fitness competition in Nanjing in June 2020.
病毒来袭直到1月23日，邱钧还在坚持锻炼，彼时虽然健身房已经歇业，但他还是雷打不动地去到公园锻炼。
The virus hit until Jan. 23, when Qiu Jun continued to exercise, and although the gym was closed, he was unable to exercise in the park.
可那天海容涛发现了异常。
But that day Hai Rongtao discovered something unusual.
展示肌肉的邱钧。
Shows the muscles of Qiu Jun.
图来自楚天都市报大年三十的早上，邱玥煮了面条，海容涛起床后发现岳父已经去了公园，但邱玥说父亲早上没怎么吃，这引起了海容涛的警觉，“老爷子健身消耗大，很少会没胃口”。
The picture comes from the morning of the Chu Tian Metropolis Daily, who boiled noodles. Hai Juntao got up and found his father-in-law had gone to the park, but Qiuyou said Father didn't eat much in the morning.
海容涛从新冠肺炎刚爆发之际就开始关注，把新闻里提到的感染者症状都记在心里，并不断提示岳父，最近还是少出门，出门戴口罩。
Since the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, Hai Yung-tao has been paying attention, keeping in mind the symptoms of those infected in the news, and constantly reminding his father-in-law to go out less often and wear masks recently.
但他知道，岳父认为自己身强体壮不会感染，说太多会伤他自尊，所以没有强制要求他防护或者禁足。
But he knew that his father-in-law didn't think he was strong enough to get infected and that too much would hurt his self-esteem.
“那会我倒不担心健身房的人，他们身体都还可以，主要是公园人来人往的太多了，大多是老人。
"I wouldn't worry about people at the gym because they're in good health," he said. "It's mostly park people coming and going, mostly old people.
”海容涛说。
"said Hai Rongtao.
1月10日，一家人坐下来吃饭时他主动提出了这个问题，邱钧听他说了半天，最后憋出来一句话，“该么样就么样”（注：该怎么样还是怎么样），接着又说，“别人都没戴口罩，我戴口罩多难看。
On January 10, when the family sat down to dinner, he volunteered to ask the question. Qiu Jun listened to him for a long time, then finally said, "How could it be like that?" Then he added, "No one else is wearing masks.
”听了这话，海容涛也说不了什么。
"Hearing this, Hai Yung-tao said nothing.
当时他所接收到的信息都是零碎的，没有比较可靠的预警说服老人。
The information he received at the time was fragmentary, and there was no reliable warning to convince the elderly.
后来1月24日，湖北省启动重大突发公共卫生事件Ⅰ级响应。
Later, on January 24, Hubei Province launched a major public health emergency I response.
之前海容涛从没见到岳父生过病。
He had never seen his father-in-law ill before.
但谨小慎微的他在发觉岳父食欲不振的当天下午，就赶紧去买了三根体温计回来，分别给家人测量。
But cautious in discovering his father-in-law in the afternoon of lethargy, hurriedly bought three thermometers back to their families to measure.
邱钧的体温为37.6摄氏度，依旧食欲不振，此时距离春节联欢晚会开始仅剩两三个小时。
Qiu Jun's body temperature is 37.6 degrees Celsius, still hungry, just two or three hours before the Spring Festival Gala begins.
海容涛当机立断，立马让妻子收拾东西住出去，自己则陪着邱钧进行隔离，看他的情况是否会好转。
Hai Yung-tao made a quick decision to let his wife pack up immediately to live out, while he accompanied Qiu Jun isolation to see if his situation would improve.
邱玥虽然也想留下来照顾父亲，但海容涛坚持分开，并安慰岳父可能就是个小感冒。
Though Qiuyun wanted to stay and take care of his father, Mr Hai insisted on parting and comforted his father-in-law, who might have had a cold.
邱钧没有多说，当晚一个人在屋里看着春晚，早早地睡了。
Qiu Jun did not say much, that night a person in the house watching Chunwan, early sleep.
1月25日一早，海容涛冲到药房抢了15天剂量的感冒药，同时又加购了口罩。
Early on January 25, Hai Yung-tao rushed to the pharmacy to grab a 15-day dose of cold medicine and a new pair of masks.
回到家后他便给自己和岳父戴上口罩和手套，两人一人一个房间，除了送饭一般不进行接触。
When he got home, he put on masks and gloves for himself and his father-in-law.
海容涛介绍，那两天岳父的情况并没有好转，胃口越来越差，晚上他甚至能听见从隔壁传来的呻吟声，“那是老爷子发烧痛苦，哎，我听了实在难受！”海容涛见岳父的病情没有好转，就想着把他送去医院。
His father-in-law's situation had not improved and his appetite had deteriorated over the past two days, Hai said. In the evening, he could even hear moans coming from the next door.
1月29日，邱钧在社区医院验血后，医生直接让他转去华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院。
On January 29, after blood tests at the community hospital, the doctor referred him directly to the Tongji Medical College Affiliated Concorde Hospital of the Central University of Science and Technology.
但去到协和医院后，海容涛感到害怕，“走廊里挤满了人，排不上队拿不到号，还有人躺在地上。
But when he got to Concorde Hospital, Hai Yung-tao was frightened. "The hallway was too crowded for the queue to get the number, and there were people lying on the ground.
”无奈之下他们只能回家，第二天辗转多家医院，最后终于在湖北省新华医院做了CT检查，诊断意见是双肺多发感染性病变。
"But they had to go home, the next day to a number of hospitals, and finally in Hubei Province Xinhua Hospital to do a CT examination, the diagnosis of multiple lung infectious diseases.
海容涛一个人拿着白茫茫一片的CT报告去见医生，医生表示如果要确诊新冠肺炎还需进行核酸检测，只有确诊了才能分配床位住院。
Hai Yung-tao went to see a doctor with a blank CT report. The doctor said that if the diagnosis of New Crown Pneumonia required a nucleic acid test, the allocation of beds could only be confirmed.
这期间只能给病人进行输液，输液药物一天一开。
During this period, patients can only be infusion, infusion drugs open once a day.
邱钧的CT检查报告。
CT examination report of Qiu Jun.
受访者供图海容涛有些不理解，他认为此时应该尽量避免去到人流密集场所，防止交叉感染，但他此刻只能带着邱钧前往输液室。
The interviewee suggested that he should avoid going to crowded places to prevent cross-infection at this time. But he could only take Qiu Jun to the infusion room at the moment.
他翻出了一副墨镜用于眼睛的临时防护，两人还分别穿着雨披当作防护服，略显突兀地穿梭在医院里。
He turned out a pair of sunglasses for temporary eye protection, and the two wore raincoats as protective clothing, shuttling slightly abruptly through the hospital.
尤其是受病痛折磨的邱钧，此时已经全然顾不上他人的眼光，女婿让干嘛，他就照做，没有多余的话。
In particular, suffering from illness Qiu Jun, at this time has completely ignored the eyes of others, son-in-law let what he did, he did not superfluous words.
难求一床邱钧的转变海容涛都看在眼里，从一开始的讳疾忌医、百般拒绝，到就诊时的忧心忡忡、言听计从。
It is difficult to find a bed of Qiu Jun's transformation are seen in the eyes, from the beginning of the reticent doctor, refused, to the clinic worried, obedient.
“他可能有些怕了，担心自己如果得这个病怎么办。
"He may be a little afraid of what he would do if he got the disease.
”海容涛说，在医院动辄就要排队排上个把小时，为了让岳父多休息会，他只能自己上。
Hai said he had to stand in line for an hour or so at the hospital to give his father-in-law more rest.
海容涛穿着雨披，想办法把自己裹得密不透风，但仍然感到深深的恐惧。
Hai Yung-tao, dressed in a poncho, tried to make himself airtight, but still felt a deep fear.
在某个时间点，他觉得自己如履薄冰、进退两难，透过朦胧的墨镜，他只看到人们焦虑和绝望的样子。
At some point he felt as if he were walking on thin ice, caught in a dilemma, and through the dim shades of his dark glasses he could see nothing but anxiety and despair.
而邱钧的情况并没有随着输液好转，从前可以扛着杠铃起蹲毫不费力，而如今走路都会气喘，而且病情以肉眼可见的速度日益加重，女婿为他准备的鸡汤他也喝不了几口。
Qiu Jun's condition did not improve with the infusion. He used to be able to squat effortlessly with the barbell, but now he walks breathlessly and his condition is becoming more visible to the naked eye.
1月31日凌晨，海容涛来到协和医院，只见门口停满了车，病人在车里坐着，家属在医院排队。
In the early morning hours of January 31, Hai Yung-tao arrived at Concorde Hospital, only to see the door full of cars, patients sitting in their cars and families queuing up at the hospital.
他也开始排队预约新冠肺炎核酸检测，戴着潜水面罩、穿着雨衣，让邱钧在家里等。
He also began queuing up to book an Nucleic Acid Test for New Crown Pneumonia, wearing a diving mask and a raincoat, leaving Qiu Jun at home.
2月1日上午10点，邱钧完成咽拭子采样，2月2日得到结果，阳性。
February 1 at 10 a.m., Qiu Jun completed pharyngeal swab sampling, February 2 results obtained, positive.
邱钧的入诊通知单。
The admission notice of Qiu Jun.
受访者供图来不及难过，海容涛立即拿着确诊单联系社区，想要上报到区里寻求医院床位。
Interviewees can not afford to sad, Hai Yongtao immediately took a single contact with the community, want to report to the district to seek hospital beds.
在住院之前，邱钧仍然要到新华医院进行输液。
Before being hospitalized, Qiu Jun still had to go to Xinhua Hospital for infusion.
在这个间隙，心理压力已经到达极限的他瞒着岳父，给自己挂了个号。
In this gap, the psychological pressure has reached the limit of his father-in-law, to hang himself a number.
他告诉医生，自己的岳父已经确诊，他担心自己也有危险，想拍一个CT，医生答应了。
He told the doctor that his father-in-law had been diagnosed, that he feared he was in danger, and wanted to have a CT, and the doctor agreed.
等他自己的肺部CT被送到医生手上后，海容涛能感觉自己快要窒息，甚至紧张地把没问题听成了有问题。
By the time his own lung CT was delivered to the doctor, Hai felt as if he was about to suffocate, even nervously hearing that there was a problem.
直到医生重复说正常，他才仿佛从地狱回到了人间，浑身都软了下来。
It was not until the doctor repeated that he was normal that he seemed to have returned to earth from hell and softened up.
走出诊室后，海容涛给妻子打了个电话报平安，妻子无比激动。
After going out of the consultation room, Hai Yongtao gave his wife a phone call to report safety, his wife was very excited.
紧接着又一个好消息传来，社区通知海容涛，武汉市红十字医院可以收治邱钧，让他赶紧带人去。
Then came another good news, the community informed Hai Yongtao, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital can be treated Qiu Jun, let him take people quickly.
海容涛知道，此时床位非常紧张，他在去医院前甚至告知邱钧，如果见到了医生，直接往地上一倒，这样有可能得到一个床位。
He even told Qiu Jun before he went to the hospital. If he saw the doctor, he would probably get a bed by lying down on the ground.
邱钧说好。
Qiu Jun said good night.
但等两人来到红十字医院门口，保安将他们拦住，核对名单并没有找到邱钧的名字，海容涛给社区打电话反映，社区也派人来到医院进行协调，但没有效果。
But when the two men arrived at the Red Cross hospital and the security guards stopped them, the check-list did not find Qiu Jun's name. Hai Yung-tao called the community to report that the community had sent people to the hospital to coordinate, but to no avail.
三个小时后海容涛又把岳父带回了家。
Three hours later, Hai Yongtao took his father-in-law home again.
2月3日，海容涛自己来到红十字医院门口确认名单，直到下午六点才看到邱钧的名字，连忙把人送进医院。
On February 3, Haitao himself came to the Red Cross hospital to confirm the list, until 6 p.m. Qiu Jun's name, rushed to the hospital.
由于医院有着严格的管控，只允许病人进入，家属不能陪同，对于极少去医院看病的邱钧来说，他连挂号都不会，只能一趟趟步履艰难地走回到医院门口，向海容涛询问。
As the hospital had strict control, allowing only patients to enter, family members could not accompany him, for Qiu Jun, who rarely visited the hospital, he could not even register, but trudged back to the door of the hospital and asked him about it.
直到邱钧进去后很久都没有出来，海容涛这才三步一回头地离开。
Until Qiu Jun went in for a long time did not come out, Hai Yongtao this only three steps back to leave.
回到家后，他第一件事就是消毒，给家里每个角落喷洒酒精，晚上又给岳父去送饭。
The first thing he did when he got home was to disinfect it, sprinkle alcohol on every corner of the house and bring his father-in-law dinner at night.
隔着门口的护栏，邱钧告诉女婿，自己没有床位，只能坐着输液。
Across the doorway guardrail, Qiu Jun tells son-in-law, oneself have no bed, can only sit infusion.
第二天海容涛问朋友借了一张折叠床又送了过去。
The next day, Hai Yongtao asked his friend to lend him a collapsible bed.
等到2月5日下午，邱钧给女婿打来电话，说要几桶泡面。
By the afternoon of February 5, Qiu Jun called his son-in-law and asked for buckets of noodles.
海容涛一听高兴得不行，“这是治疗有效果了，有胃口了。
Hai Yung-tao was overjoyed at the news. "This is the cure that works. I have an appetite.
”他立马买了六桶泡面送了过去。
"He bought six buckets of noodles immediately and sent them over.
还是隔着护栏，邱钧还问买这么多干嘛，海容涛就说留着吃。
Still across the guardrail, Qiu Jun also asked to buy so much why, Hai Yongtao said to save to eat.
回去后海容涛立马把消息告诉给了亲戚们，大家都觉得老爷子这是要好起来了。
When he got back, Hai Yung-tao immediately told his relatives the news, and everyone thought that the old man was better.
最后一面2月6日上午八点，海容涛接到红十字医院医生的电话，邱钧病逝。
The last side February 6 8 a.m., Hai Yongtao received a call from the Red Cross hospital doctor, Qiu Jun died.
“当时我都不知道要先穿衣服还是先穿裤子。
"I didn't even know whether to dress or wear trousers first.
”海容涛说，自己花了很久才冷静下来，大口呼吸，手机攥在手上，谁也不告诉。
It took him a long time to cool down, he said, taking a big breath, his cell phone in his hand and nobody told him.
他还要为岳父办手续，为此需要进到医院里，这是风险最高的，他怠慢不得。
He had to go through the formalities for his father-in-law, and for that he needed to be admitted to the hospital, which was the most risky.
他带上所有证件赶往医院。
He took all his papers and rushed to the hospital.
等来到一个看起来像输液室的二三十平米的地方，他看到邱钧被白布包裹着，躺在自己借来的那张折叠床上，护士用屏风做了个隔断，一边还有6、7个人在输液。
When he came to a place which looked like an infusion room of twenty or thirty square meters, he saw Qiu Jun lying wrapped in white cloth on the folding bed he had borrowed.
海容涛走上前去，给邱钧磕了三个头。
Hai Juntao stepped forward and knocked his head three times.
“磕第一个头的时候我就在想，怎么会这样呢？”每磕一下，他都觉得这是一场梦，那个壮硕无比的老头会醒过来吧。
I was thinking, when I first struck my head, how could this happen? Every time I knock it, it feels like a dream, and the big old man wakes up.
但等他磕完头，眼罩里满是泪水，邱钧依旧躺在那里。
But when he finished his knock, the blindfold filled with tears, Qiu Jun still lay there.
邱钧有个习惯，自己重要的东西包括身份证都放在腰包里。
Qiu Jun has a habit of putting his important things, including identity cards, in his pocket.
为了拿出腰包，海容涛费了很大的劲，因为岳父体格健硕，他轻易搬不动他，一旁的护士过来帮忙，用剪刀剪开腰包，这才取了下来。
In order to get out of his pocket, Hai Yung-tao had a great deal of trouble because his father-in-law was so strong that he could not easily lift him.
海容涛发现，腰包上还带着岳父的余温，回忆至此，他哽咽了很久。
Hai Yung Tao found that on the waist pack with his father-in-law's Yu Wen, recalled here, he choked for a long time.
他像“行尸走肉一般”办完手续，邱钧的遗体被送上了殡仪馆的车，一同被带走的还有另外两具遗体。
He went through the formalities like "walking dead bodies," Qiu Jun's body was sent to the funeral home car, along with the bodies of two other bodies.
来不及再看一眼，来不及说声走好，邱钧的遗体被匆匆运走，海容涛看着远去的白车，只知道哭。
There was no time to look again, it was too late to say good, Qiu Jun's body was rushed away, Hai Yung Tao looked away at the white car, only know to cry.
回到家已是中午，海容涛花了20分钟让自己冷静，随后给妻子打去了电话。
It was noon when he got home, and Hai Yung-tao spent 20 minutes trying to calm himself down before calling his wife.
“早上八点多医院通知，爸爸走了。
"The hospital announced at eight o'clock in the morning and Dad was gone.
”“怎么可能，你在开玩笑吧？”海容涛听到妻子这话，绷不住大哭起来，之前的冷静全然无用，两人在电话里嚎啕大哭。
"How could you be kidding?" Hai Yung-tao burst into tears when he heard his wife's words.
哭完后海容涛又一一通知家属，每打一个电话，他都大哭一次，此前压抑的情感如今都爆发了出来。
After crying, Hai Yongtao informed his family that every time he made a phone call, he burst into tears.
到了晚上，恍惚之间海容涛感觉到点了，邱钧这会应该刚从健身房出来要回家了。
At night, Hai Rong Tao feels a bit, Qiu Jun should just come out of the gym to go home.
但他转念一想，岳父已然不在了。
But he remembered that his father-in-law was no longer there.
这之后的日子，海容涛作为密切接触者，被社区安排到了专门的酒店进行隔离。
In the days that followed, Hai Rongtao was herded into a special hotel by the community as a close contact.
因为不能开空调，他带着电热毯；一日三餐都有人送，但有时吃了又饿，他带上了过年没吃完的零食；为了保证营养，他还带了罐奶粉，一个人在酒店里慢慢恢复平静。
Unable to turn on the air conditioner, he carried an electric blanket; three meals a day were served, but sometimes he was hungry and ate. He brought a snack that had not been eaten during the New Year.
妻子的情况则不是很好，从大年三十分别，她就再没见过父亲，和海容涛也只是远远地见过几面。
The situation of his wife was not very good. She had never seen her father since his late thirties, and Hai Rongtao had seen only a few faces from afar.
她不接电话，只在微信上打字，也不敢和丈夫视频。
She did not answer the phone, typing on microletters and not daring to videotape her husband.
关于父亲的悼文一律不看，只是默默收藏起来。
All the eulogies of my father were not read, but were kept in silence.
“保小家，就是保大家”邱钧的离去，让很多人感到震惊，许多曾经与他一同健身的朋友纷纷留言，回忆老爷子的精神矍铄和和蔼可敬。
"Bao Xiaojia, is to protect everyone" Qiu Jun's departure, let many people feel shocked, many friends who used to work out with him have left messages, reminiscent of the old man's hale and hearty spirit and gentleness.
也有人问，这么健康的邱老怎么一夜之间就离开了大家？海容涛说，老人毕竟72岁了，再强健的肌肉，也耐不住岁数在这了。
Some people also asked how such a healthy Qiu left all of us overnight? After all, Hai Yung-tao said, the old man is 72 years old, and even the most muscular muscles can't stand the years here.
北京大学第一医院感染疾病科主任王贵强在接受访谈时提到，免疫是把双刃剑，如果一个患者病毒很多，免疫能力也很强，容易出现局部斗争，这样会带来炎症因子风暴，导致病情迅速爆发恶化。
Immunity is a double-edged sword, said Wang Guiqiang, director of infectious diseases at Peking University's No. 1 Hospital. If a patient has a lot of viruses, his immunity is strong and he is prone to local struggles, which can lead to a storm of inflammatory factors and a rapid deterioration of the disease.
老人已经走了，在他的讣告中，他的女儿和女婿写道，“在武汉全城抗疫的特殊情况下，我们不设灵堂，丧事从简，告别仪式根据疫情结束情况再另行通知。
In his obituary, his daughter and son-in-law wrote, "Under the special circumstances of fighting epidemic in Wuhan, we do not have a hearse.
”邱钧的讣告。
"Qiu Jun's obituary.
受访者供图简单地处理完岳父的后事，海容涛开始了隔离的生活。
The interviewee tried to deal with his father-in-law's affairs simply, and Hai Yung-tao began to live in isolation.
除了每天测量体温，他需要做的事并不多。
He has not much to do but take his temperature every day.
回忆起这几天的经历，有时他会自责，“我是不是做得太绝了，把他们彻底隔离开来，家里人可能会觉得没帮上什么忙。
Remembering his experiences of the past few days, he sometimes reproached himself, "Am I going too far to isolate them completely, and the family may feel that I have done nothing to help them?
”但他也强调，自己的初衷是为了防止人传人，他见过太多悲惨的故事，“我见过最惨的就是一家5口全死了，还有父母都得病住院了，留下7、8岁的孩子，邻里之间照顾着。
But he also stressed that his intention was to prevent human-to-human transmission, and that he had seen too many tragic stories. "The worst thing I've seen is a family of five dead, parents in hospital, seven or eight-year-olds, neighbors taking care of each other.
”尽管海容涛非常想念和担心妻子，他不敢和妻子见面，“我岳父走了几天以后，我给她买了四五筐东西，放到她门口我就走，她再下来拿，基本上我俩是见不到面的。
"Although Hai Yung-tao missed and worried so much about his wife, he dared not meet his wife." After my father-in-law had gone for a few days, I bought her four or five baskets and left them at her door.
”2月10日下午，一位马拉松跑友找到海容涛，说自己的岳母也确诊病逝了，自己的妻子要开车冲到医院去见最后一面，希望海容涛帮着劝劝。
On the afternoon of February 10, a marathon runner went to Hai Yongtao, saying his mother-in-law had also been confirmed dead, and that his wife would drive to the hospital to see her for the last time, hoping that Hai would help persuade her.
海容涛给跑友的妻子打去电话，介绍了自己的情况，然后先让她把驻车靠边，对她说，“你家里还有两个宝宝，你去（病毒）高密度的地方，万一带了病毒回家，你孩子怎么办？”电话那头的人一边哭一边说着什么，最终还是听了进去。
Hai Yung-tao called his wife to tell her about herself, then told her to pull over and say, "You still have two babies in your house, you go to a high-density area, you go home with a virus, what about your kids?" The caller cried and said something and finally listened.
海容涛说，中国人是想最后见一面的，但在这种情况下真的没办法。
'Chinese people want to see each other for the last time, but there's really nothing we can do under these circumstances, 'Mr. Hai said.
他觉得，“保小家，就是保大家。
He felt, "To keep your home is to protect everyone.
在前线的医护工作者们都不容易，我们彼此也要做好防护，避免交叉感染。
The front-line health care workers are not easy, we have to protect each other to avoid cross-infection.
”本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
This issue of Editor Chang Chen recommends reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从不生病的72岁健美冠军，确诊后4天离世。
The 72-year-old bodybuilder, who never got sick, died four days after his diagnosis.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "从不生病的72岁健美冠军，确诊后4天离世";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "这个身高一米七、走起路来虎虎生风的健身达人，竟然会在一夜之间输给新冠肺炎";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
