康复者口述｜我在方舱医院当了“领导”。
The convalescent told me I was the "leader" of the cabin hospital.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 发自武汉实习生 沈佳昕最近的20多天，何伟（化名）的心情犹如过山车般起落。
Zhao Pai journalist Zhao thinking from Wuhan intern Shen Jiaxin more than 20 days recently, He Wei (alias) mood like a roller coaster ride.
从确诊住不进医院的焦虑，到住进方舱医院治愈后的激动，“做一个健康人”，和家人平平安安过日子，成为他这段时间以来想得最多的心愿。
From the anxiety of not being admitted to hospital to the excitement of staying in a cabin hospital, "to be a healthy person" and live in peace with his family have become the most cherished wishes of his time.
他开始怀念以前武汉街上车水马龙的热闹劲，他在这里待了超过20年。
He began to miss the hustle and bustle of Wuhan Street, where he had been for more than 20 years.
何伟感染新冠肺炎后，症状不是很重。
His symptoms were not severe after infection with New Crown Pneumonia.
2月13日，经过常规的中西医药物治疗，他的核酸检测“阳转阴”，顺利出舱，家人目前也未受到他的影响。
Feb. 13, after regular Chinese and Western medicine treatment, his nucleic acid test "Yang Yin," smooth out of the cabin, his family is not affected by him.
何伟在方舱医院内吃的药物  受访者供图分享自己从方舱医院出舱的康复之路时，何伟觉得自己的心态一直都很好，除了配合养疗，他还参加了由病友组织成立的党支部，帮助病友收集反映问题、给医护帮忙搬东西、替保洁拖地。
As he was sharing his rehabilitation from the cabin hospital, Mr Ho found himself in a good frame of mind. In addition to the medical treatment, he joined a Party branch set up by a group of sick friends to help patients collect and report problems, carry things out for medical staff and mop the floor for them.
在接受澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）采访时，何伟给记者提供了几段在武昌方舱医院病友群里的视频。
In an interview with the roaring news (www.thepper.cn), Mr. He gave reporters several video clips of patients in Wuchang's cabin hospital.
视频中，病友们齐声歌唱，打着拍子，用欢快的歌声相互鼓励，医护人员在清理床铺时还不忘给病人鼓掌加油打气。
The video shows sick people singing in unison, beating time and encouraging each other with cheery songs, and doctors and nurses clapping and cheering as they clean their beds.
何伟认为，在这种重大公共卫生事件面前，个体无疑是渺小的，“但是为了家人，我们要抚平伤口，坚强地活着”。
He believes that in the face of such a major public health event, the individual is undoubtedly small, "but for the family, we have to heal wounds, strong live."
以下为何伟口述：从天佑医院转入方舱医院这20多天的经历，我今后很长一段时间都会想起。
The following is why Wei oral: From God-You Hospital to the cabin hospital in the past 20 days, I will remember for a long time to come.
我叫何伟（化名），湖北人，今年50岁，在武汉工作生活超过20年。
My name is He Wei (alias), a native of Hubei, aged 50, who has worked and lived in Wuhan for more than 20 years.
1月20日前后，我感觉到喉咙不舒服，去了一家省直医院门诊几次。
Around 20 January, I felt my throat uncomfortable and went to a provincial hospital clinic several times.
当时我以为只是普通感冒，医生给我看了喉咙。
I thought it was just a common cold. The doctor showed me my throat.
还记得看病时，围了一圈的病人，大家都没有戴口罩，事后我在想很可能就是那个时候感染的病毒。
I remember seeing a patient, surrounded by a circle of patients, everyone did not wear a mask, I was thinking that it was probably the virus infected at that time.
22日，我回了趟老家，和家人一起吃年饭，当时还不知道已经感染上新冠病毒，好在我始终戴着口罩，降低了风险。
On the 22nd, I went back to my hometown to have New Year's Eve dinner with my family. I didn't know I was infected with the new crown virus, but I always wore a mask, reducing the risk.
吃完年饭，我心里总是不踏实，便在25日去医院做了CT，发现双肺感染，27日核酸检测结果是阳性。
After eating Chinese New Year's Eve meal, my heart is always uneasy, I went to the hospital on the 25th CT, found two lung infections, 27 nucleic acid test results are positive.
确诊之后各大医院我都住不进去，有的医院排10个小时队都轮不到号。
After the diagnosis of major hospitals I can not live in, some hospitals have been queuing up for 10 hours without the number.
我就到武汉市第七医院看了门诊，医生给我开了点感冒药。
I went to Wuhan seventh hospital to see the clinic, the doctor gave me some cold medicine.
担心传染给家人，我就搬出去一个人住，开始了自我隔离的日子。
Afraid of infecting my family, I moved out to live alone and began to isolate myself.
直到2月5日，水果湖社区工作人员告诉我，说天佑医院有空床位，问我去不去，我当即答应。
Until February 5, Shuiguo Lake community workers told me that Tianyou Hospital vacant beds, asked me whether to go, I immediately agreed.
当天下午5点半左右，我到天佑医院办理了入院手续，还没有开始具体治疗，凌晨1点，医院通知说，政府要求将确诊的轻症病人集中转运到洪山体育馆改造的方舱医院。
At about 5: 30 p.m. that day, I went to Tian You Hospital to check in, but no specific treatment has begun. At 1: 00 a.m., the hospital informed me that the government required the transfer of confirmed patients with mild cases to the converted Fang Cao Hospital at Hongshan Stadium.
方舱医院我只是在网上看到过一些介绍，但里面的情况不是很清楚，最后我还是来了。
I only saw some introductions on the Internet, but the situation inside wasn't very clear, and finally I came.
洪山体育馆改造的武昌方舱医院。
The Hongshan Stadium was renovated in Wuchang Square Hospital.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图想开点，一切逐渐走上正轨我知道，武汉的确诊人数是全国最多的，还有确诊和疑似确诊的病人住不进医院，这个时候需要医院腾出位置给危重症病人，所以像我这样症状比较轻的人就要集中到方舱医院。
Zhao thought the news reporter wanted to open up, everything gradually on the right track I know that Wuhan has the highest number of confirmed cases in the country, there are confirmed and suspected patients do not live in hospitals, at this time the hospital to make room for critically ill patients, so people with less symptoms like me will have to concentrate in the cabin hospital.
2月6日凌晨3点半，我住进了武昌方舱医院，开始在这里接受诊疗。
February 6, 3: 30 am, I live in Wuchang cabin hospital, began to receive medical treatment here.
住进的那天凌晨下着大雨，各个社区转运过来的病人冒雨在洪山体育馆外的露天场地排队。
It rained heavily in the early hours of the day of arrival, and patients from various communities lined up in the open air outside the Hongshan Stadium in rain.
大家先要在场馆外的隔离帐篷里登记，再看被分到哪个区。
You have to register in a separate tent outside the venue and see to which district you are assigned.
入住的6日凌晨病床没有通电，只能提供照明，晚上睡觉冷。
The check-in bed in the early morning hours of 6 days without electricity, can only provide lighting, at night sleep cold.
白天饭和药没有按时提供，晚上10点半开始给病人发药。
Dinner and medicine were not provided on time, and medication was administered to the patient starting at 10.30 p.m.
好在6日晚上电力恢复正常，药物也开始按时配发，逐渐步入正轨。
Fortunately, electricity returned to normal on the night of June 6, drugs began to be issued on time, gradually on track.
在方舱医院，厕所在室外，需要走两三百米，有些不方便。
In the square cabin hospital, the toilet in the open air, need to walk two or three hundred meters, some inconvenient.
医院也没有给病人洗澡的地方，不过也没办法，我想着总比没地方看病好吧。
The hospital doesn't have a place to take a shower, but I can't help thinking it's better than no place to see a doctor.
其实我能理解，从启用方舱医院到病人入住，只有短短一天时间，医护和服务设施上难免会跟不上。
In fact, I understand that from the opening of the cabin hospital to the patient's occupancy, only a day, medical care and service facilities will inevitably be unable to keep up.
方舱医院病人很多，医生护士太忙，像我待的病区有253个病床，一个医生要查一百多个病人的床，等查完基本就要交班。
The cabin hospital was crowded with patients, doctors and nurses were too busy, there were 253 beds in the sick area I was in, and a doctor had to check the beds of more than a hundred patients until the shift was almost over.
到方舱医院以后，我没有生气抱怨，还开导身边的病友，让他们想开一点，在这里不需要你挂号排队，有人定期给你复查，比在外面看不了病的病人好很多。
After arriving at the cabin hospital, I did not complain angrily, but also enlightened the sick people around them, let them open a little bit, here do not need you to register, someone to review you regularly, than outside can not see patients much better.
后来大部分病友的情绪都很稳定，接受了方舱医院的环境，一切逐渐走上正轨。
Most of the patients were in a stable mood, accepted the environment of the cabin hospital, everything is gradually on track.
其实，在医院电话通知我核酸检测结果的时候，我没什么感觉，既不害怕也不恐慌。
In fact, when the hospital called me to tell me the nucleic acid test results, I had no feeling, neither fear nor panic.
从确诊到入住方舱医院，我的心态一直比较好，觉得这个病可以治愈。
From diagnosis to check-in cabin hospital, my mentality has been relatively good, feel that the disease can be cured.
成立临时党支部，收集反映问题在方舱医院，每天早上7点亮灯，病人陆续起来，有的人想睡就继续睡。
A temporary Party branch was set up to collect and react to problems at the cabin hospital. Lights were lit every morning at 7 a.m. Patients began to get up and some people wanted to go to sleep.
早上8点到8点半吃早餐，12点半到下午1点吃中饭，下午5点半到6点吃晚饭。
Breakfast is served from 8: 30 a.m. to 8: 30 a.m., lunch from 12: 30 to 1: 00 p.m. and dinner from 5: 30 p.m. to 6: 00 p.m.
晚上11点左右熄灯睡觉。
Turn off the lights at about 11 pm.
有个不好的事情是，晚上会有患者陆续转运进来，护士还要工作，医院内不会很安静，比较嘈杂，好在医护给每个病人发了眼罩和耳塞。
The bad thing is that there are patients in transit at night, nurses have to work, the hospital will not be quiet, noisy, but medical care to each patient with blindfolds and earplugs.
每天的诊疗，医生给我开的药有盐酸阿比多尔片、盐酸莫西沙星片、磷酸奥司他韦胶囊、莲花清瘟胶囊和复方甲氧那明胶囊，以及袋装的中药肺炎1号方“寒湿郁肺汤”，每袋是200ml。
At my daily consultations, my doctors prescribed Abidol hydrochloride tablets, moxifloxacin hydrochloride tablets, oseltamivir phosphate capsules, lotus rinderpest capsules and compound methoxanamine capsules, as well as bags of TCM Pneumonia No. 1, 200 ml each.
护士会一次发给病人几天的药，吃完了再找他们要。
The nurse will give the patient a few days' supply of medicine at a time.
有时候护士会提醒你吃药，但是病人太多了忙不过来，我们病友间就要互相提醒。
Sometimes the nurse will remind you to take the medicine, but the patient is too busy, we should remind each other of each other.
11日，方舱内成立了临时党支部，设立了总支委员会，由身体比较好、症状比较轻的病人扮演组织者角色。
On February 11, a temporary Party branch was set up in the square cabin, and a general support committee was set up, with patients with better health and less severe symptoms playing the role of organizer.
我身体比较好，可以帮忙做做事，便担任了总支委员。
I am in good health, can help do things, and served as the chief support committee.
方舱医院内成立的病友党支部受访者供图临时党支部成立后，会收集病人的需求，然后归纳向上面反馈，这样问题容易得到解决，病人的情绪也可以得到安抚。
After the establishment of the temporary Party branch, patients' needs will be collected and then summarized to the above feedback so that the problem can be easily solved and the patient's mood can be assuaged.
比如大家普遍反映的不能洗澡问题，院方就连夜施工，安装了两个集装箱供给病人洗澡。
For example, we generally do not take a bath, the hospital night construction, the installation of two containers to bathe patients.
此外，医护人员穿着厚厚的防护服，拿东西很不方便，在符合医疗条件下，我们会组织一些病友帮他们搬搬东西。
In addition, medical staff wear heavy protective clothing and carry things very inconveniently, we will organize some sick friends to help them carry things under medical conditions.
保洁队的人也很辛苦，他们人手不够，我们就帮忙把地拖一下。
The cleaning team was also very hard-working, they were short of staff, we helped to drag the floor.
很怕问到别人伤心事方舱里住的都是确诊的轻症患者，病人之间的症状基本都一样，但是病友间交流比较少，大部分时间大家都低着头，戴着口罩静静地坐在床边。
I was afraid to ask if anyone else's cabin was filled with diagnosed mild illness. The symptoms were basically the same, but there was less communication between the patients. Most of the time, we sat quietly by the bed, head bowed and wearing masks.
记得有位病友一家人都感染了病毒，很害怕问到别人的伤心事。
Remember that a sick friend of the family are infected with the virus, very afraid to ask other people's grief.
方舱医院内病人在休息 受访者供图我自己身体的感觉我是知道的，有一个直觉，我的病不用吃药都可以好，比感冒都容易治，可能就是比较“心大”吧。
I know that I have a hunch that my illness can be cured without taking medicine. It is easier to cure than a cold. Maybe it is a "big heart."
唯一担心我的家人会被我感染，不过家人隔离之后也没有出现症状，我就放心了。
The only worry is that my family will be infected with me, but the isolation of the family did not show symptoms, I feel relieved.
相比其他病友，我无疑是幸运的。
Compared with other sick friends, I am undoubtedly lucky.
11日、12日，方舱医院的医护分别给我做了两次核酸检测，结果都为阴性。
On the 11th and 12th, I was tested twice for nucleic acid by the medical staff of Fang Nucleic Acid Hospital.
13日，通知我可以出院，我内心很激动，谁都想做个健康人。
On the 13th, I was informed that I could be discharged from hospital. I was so excited inside that everyone wanted to be healthy.
在确诊隔离、方舱治疗的这段时间，我很怀念以前和家人过着的普通日子，很怀念街上车水马龙的热闹劲，很怀念生机勃勃的武汉城，以前讨厌的堵车也觉得挺好。
During the period of diagnosis and treatment, I miss the ordinary life I had with my family, the bustle of the traffic on the streets, the lively city of Wuhan, and the traffic jams I hated before.
康复出舱后，我会好好洗个澡。
I'll have a good shower when I get out of the cabin.
很担心我的母亲和岳母，看到她们没事我心里的石头就落地了。
Worried about my mother and mother-in-law, I saw that they were okay and the stone fell to the ground.
但是出舱后我还要隔离14天，你不隔离别人可能会怪你。
But I'm gonna be quarantined for another 14 days after I get out of the hatch. You may be blamed for not quarantining people.
医生说我们对这个病毒已经有抗体，不会再感染病毒，但是刚治愈身体的抵抗力比较弱，容易感染其他的流行病，所以还是要做好隔离。
Doctors say we already have antibodies to the virus and won't infect it again, but our newly cured body is less resistant and susceptible to other epidemics, so be sure to isolate it.
我一直很注重身体健康，很少抽烟喝酒，一周坚持锻炼4次，坚持步行上下班。
I always pay attention to good health, very little smoking and drinking, exercise four times a week, adhere to walking to work.
疫情过后，我们还是要掌握健康常识，管理好自己的身体，对这种流行病具备基本的卫生常识，对自己负责，也是对家庭负责。
After the epidemic, we must master common health knowledge, manage our bodies, have basic hygiene knowledge about the epidemic, be accountable to ourselves and be responsible to our families.
谢谢那些驰援武汉的医护人员，疫情快点消散吧！戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Thank the medical staff who rushed to Wuhan, the epidemic situation will soon dissipate! Pound here into a real-time map of new cases of coronavirus infection across the country.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
康复者口述｜我在方舱医院当了“领导”。
The convalescent told me I was the "leader" of the cabin hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "康复者口述｜我在方舱医院当了“领导”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; rehabilitation: I was at cabin hospital as a "leader";;;;
var msg_desc = "“要抚平伤口，坚强地活着”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "To heal the wound and stay strong" & quot;
title: '直击｜武汉超市最新菜价',。
Yesterday's prices at Wuhan supermarket were not less than yesterday's.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
