防护服中湿透6小时，这个除夕他们还在实验室里寻找诊断新型肺炎的“铁证”。
They were soaked through protective clothing for six hours, and on New Year's Eve they were in the laboratory looking for "hard evidence" of a new type of pneumonia.
黄祺。
Wangqi.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
实验室检测员，将在病毒检测实验室里度过24小时。
Laboratory testers will spend 24 hours in a virus detection lab.
这里的不眠之夜，与2000多万上海市民息息相关。
The sleepless nights here are closely related to the more than 20 million people in Shanghai.
文 |黄　祺2名流行病学专业人员，一辆专车，一个按照高致病性病原微生物A类包装标准密封包装的特殊盒子，盒子里，是一名疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病人样本。
Ricky Wong has two epidemiologists, a car, and a special box in a standard sealed package for highly pathogenic microorganisms, packing group A, a patient with pneumonia suspected to be infected with a new coronavirus.
非常时期，除了全市医疗机构，上海市疾控中心，是另一个“不打烊”的机构这个盒子，被交到上海市疾控中心质量管理处生物样品收样室，收样室每天两次把陆续收到的疑似病例样本送进病毒检测实验室。
During the emergency period, in addition to the whole city's medical institutions, the Shanghai CDC is another "closed" organization. The box was delivered to the biological sample collection room of the quality control office of the Shanghai CDC.
正常情况下，24小时后，一份样本是否存在新型冠状病毒的结论，就可以从实验室报出，为病人的后续治疗，提供最关键的依据。
Normally, 24 hours later, a sample for a new coronavirus can be reported from the laboratory, providing the most critical basis for follow-up treatment.
上海市疾控中心病原生物检定所内，疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例样本转运中当我们为“逆行”的医生泪目时，在看似平静的一间实验室里，疾控系统的实验室检测人员，同样正在为了尽快控制新型肺炎疫情的蔓延，从事着高风险、高强度的工作。
In the Shanghai CDC Pathogenic Biometric Survey Center, laboratory testers of the disease-control system in a seemingly calm laboratory are also doing high-risk, high-intensity work to control the spread of the new-style pneumonia as soon as possible while we are tearful for "retrograde" doctors.
他们的工作，一样值得我们致敬！今天上午，应勇一行来到上海市疾控中心，慰问工作人员，并实地察看中心实验室，与正在进行病毒核酸检测的工作人员连线通话。
This morning, Yingyong's delegation came to the Shanghai CDC to express condolences to the workers and to inspect the center's laboratory and connect with the staff who are conducting viral nucleic acid tests.
应勇要求科学有效做好疫情防控，制订周密防控措施，指导基层开展好防控工作确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，靠他们拿出最关键证据“我昨天8点穿上防护服进实验室，下午2点半结束第一批样本的检测，出来吃了午饭。
Yingyong asked scientific and effective prevention and control of the disease, worked out elaborate prevention and control measures, guided the grass-roots prevention and control work to identify the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, relying on them to produce the most crucial evidence "I put on protective clothing yesterday morning into the laboratory, finished the first batch of samples at 2: 30 p.m. and went out for lunch.
晚上7点第二次穿上防护服进实验室，做完所有样本检测出来是凌晨1点半。
Wear protective clothing for the second time at 7 p. m. into the lab, do all the samples were detected at 1: 30 am.
”上海市疾病预防控制中心病原生物检定所副所长李崇山，完成昨天24小时的实验室工作，今天继续在办公室上班——非常时期，除了全市医疗机构，上海市疾控中心，是另一个“不打烊”的机构。
Li Chongshan, deputy director of the Shanghai Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Pathogenic Biology Laboratory, completed 24 hours of laboratory work yesterday and continues to work today in his office--another "closed-door" institution, in addition to the city's medical facilities, the Shanghai CDC.
李崇山介绍，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的确诊，需要实验室提供的关键性检定结论。
Li Chongshan, the diagnosis of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, the laboratory needs to provide the key test results.
按照国家卫生健康委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控方案（试行）》规定，上海市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的实验室检测全部由市疾控中心承担，也就是说，全市所有医院发现的疑似病人，医生采集样本后，这些样本最终都会被送到上海疾控中心病毒检测实验室。
According to the National Council of Health (NCHC) "New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Program (Trial)," the new coronavirus infection laboratory tests in Shanghai are carried out by the CDC. This means that suspected patients found in all the hospitals in the city will eventually be sent to the Shanghai CDC Virus Detection Laboratory.
从1月16日至今8天，实验室从未熄灯，病毒检测实验室一共准备了7组检测人员，每班6-8人，一班24小时。
From January 16 to the present 8 days, the laboratory has never turned off the light, virus detection laboratory prepared a total of seven groups of testing staff, each class 6-8, a class of 24 hours.
最近几天，全市送检的样本量基本稳定在30多个病例，每个病例有两种样本——患者咽拭子、鼻拭子样本。
Over the past few days, the sample size has remained stable at more than 30 cases, with two types of samples per case - swabs of the patient's pharynx and nose.
这意味着每一班实验室工作人员要接触数十份疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例样本。
This meant that each laboratory worker was exposed to dozens of samples of pneumonia suspected to be a new coronavirus infection.
每一份样本检测要经历五个主要步骤：1.检测人员对样本进行标记、分装；2.核酸提取；3.荧光定量PCR体系配制；4.上机检测；5.输出判断报告。
There are five main steps for each sample test: 1. Detectors mark and repackage samples; 2. Nucleic acid extraction; 3. Fluorescence quantitative PCR system formulation; 4. On-board testing; 5.
五个主要步骤中，前三个需要人工操作。
The first three of the five main steps need to be performed manually.
“实验室检测工作存在较高的风险，但我们会严格防护，规范操作，将风险控制在零。
"There is a high risk of laboratory testing, but we will strictly protect against it, standardize operations and keep the risk to zero.
”李崇山说，目前样本检测采用的是核酸检测技术，按照《新型冠状病毒实验室生物安全指南》要求，核酸检测实验在P2实验室中进行，每位检测人员采取生物安全三级个人防护。
Li said DNA testing, which is based on nucleic acid testing technology, was conducted in a P2 laboratory under the requirements of the New Coronavirus Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines, with each tester taking a biosafety level III personal protection.
十多分钟就会湿身的隔离服，他们要穿6小时以上今天是除夕，按照排班，周艳秋、崔心怡、褚维、陈敏、陈伟鑫五位实验室检测员，将在病毒检测实验室里度过24小时。
It's New Year's Eve. According to the schedule, five laboratory testers, namely Zhou Yanqiu, Cui Xinyi, Chu Wei, Chen Min and Chen Weixin, will spend 24 hours in the virus detection laboratory.
这里的不眠之夜，与2000多万上海市民息息相关。
The sleepless nights here are closely related to the more than 20 million people in Shanghai.
按照钟南山院士的说法，目前新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情还处于“爬坡”期，这意味着，最近几天，确诊病人还会不断增加，而且增加的速度可能会明显加快。
According to Academician Zhong Nan Shan, the current outbreak of coronavirus infection is still "climbing," which means that the number of confirmed patients will continue to increase in recent days, and the rate of increase is likely to be noticeably faster.
对于检测人员来说，实验室里的奋战不会因为春节而停歇。
For the testers, the battle in the lab won't stop for the Spring Festival.
李崇山告诉记者，生物安全三级防护服穿上十多分钟里面的衣服就会湿透，而按照目前的工作量，他们穿上防护服要连续工作6小时以上才可以脱下休息。
Li told reporters that biosafety level-III suits can get soaked in less than 10 minutes, and at current workloads they can take off their protective clothing after six hours of continuous work.
“我们开玩笑说这叫免费桑拿。
"We joke it's called a free sauna.
”据介绍，为了应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，上海市疾控中心抽调其他实验室骨干和区级疾控中心人员增援病毒检测实验室，目前病毒检测实验室参与排班的人员共25人。
In response to the outbreak of the new coronavirus infection, the Shanghai CDC has deployed key personnel from other laboratories and district-level CDC personnel to reinforce the virus detection laboratory, which currently has 25 personnel on the shift, the report said.
“除夕这一班里的褚维和陈伟鑫，就是分别从黄浦区疾控中心、嘉定区疾控中心抽调的业务骨干。
OGI and Chen Weixin of New Year's Eve are the backbone of operations drawn from the CDC in Huangpu District and the CDC in Jiading District respectively.
”李崇山说，这支检测队伍平均年龄35岁，年龄最小的25岁。
The survey team, whose average age is 35, is as young as 25, Li said.
他们绝大多数为医学教育背景，其中拥有硕士、博士学历的人员超过一半。
The vast majority of them have a medical education, more than half of whom have a master's degree or a doctorate.
接到疫情任务，9人主动放弃了回老家过年的计划，毫不迟疑地留在工作岗位。
Received the epidemic mission, nine people voluntarily gave up their plans to return home for the New Year, did not hesitate to stay at work.
正是这二十多位年轻的实验室专业人员，承担起上海全市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例样本实验室检测重任，为每一位病人的病因，寻找“铁证”。
It is these 20 young laboratory professionals, bear the new coronavirus infection in Shanghai sample laboratory testing burden, for each patient's etiology, look for "iron evidence."
预案充分，有条不紊1月20日晚，国家卫生健康委确认上海市首例输入性新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例。
On the evening of January 20, the National Health Council confirmed the first confirmed case of pneumonia in Shanghai with a new coronavirus infection.
但早在1月14日，上海疾控就已经开始着手准备应对可能到来的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎样本检测任务。
But as early as January 14, Shanghai CDC began preparations for a possible new coronavirus infection in the pneumonia samples test mission.
“1月14日，国家卫健委发布相关指南，我们中心立即启动试剂耗材应急采购流程，准备好了新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎样本检测的物资。
"On January 14, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued relevant guidelines. Our center immediately started the emergency procurement process for reagents and consumables, and prepared materials for the testing of pneumonia samples for the new coronavirus infection.
”李崇山说，除了准备物资，更早之前，张曦所长和滕峥主任就开始对市区两级疾控中心实验室人员进行培训，确保所有流程和人员可以应对上海出现新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病人的情况。
In addition to preparing materials, Zhang and Teng Zheng began training city-level CDC laboratory personnel earlier this year to ensure that all procedures and personnel can respond to pneumonia patients with the new coronavirus infection in Shanghai.
从李崇山的语气里，记者听不到慌乱疲惫，更多的是有条不紊。
From the tone of Li Chongshan, reporters do not hear panic tired, more orderly.
“这些年，在市委市政府的领导下，在市卫生健康委的指导下，我们开展了四轮公共卫生体系建设三年行动计划，取得了显著的成效，病原检测技术有了很大的进步，上海疾控在应对新发突发传染病方面有完备的应急预案，我们还开展了多项国家重大专项研究。
"Over the years, under the leadership of the municipal government and under the guidance of the Municipal Health Committee, we have launched four rounds of a three-year plan of action for the construction of the public health system.
我们实验室检测的效率和准确性，在全国是名列前茅的，跟发达国家比也不差。
The efficiency and accuracy of our laboratory tests are among the highest in the country and are comparable to those of developed countries.
我们疾控人将全力以赴打赢防控新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情这场硬仗，我们有信心，确保人民群众生命安全和身体健康。
We, the disease controllers, will spare no effort to win the battle against the SARS coronavirus infection. We are confident that people's lives will be safe and healthy.
”▼大家还都在看这些▼·这一刻，我为你泪目，我为你骄傲！·申音 | 曹翠芬：这个奶奶，承包你所有泪点·发烧了好几天，今天我去了趟发热门诊转载请在评论区留言，获得授权！转载时，须注明作者、出处和微信号。
Why don't we all Why don't we all Why don't we all Why don't we all Why don't we all Why don't we all look at these
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防护服中湿透6小时，这个除夕他们还在实验室里寻找诊断新型肺炎的“铁证”。
They were soaked through protective clothing for six hours, and on New Year's Eve they were in the laboratory looking for "hard evidence" of a new type of pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "防护服中湿透6小时，这个除夕他们还在实验室里寻找诊断新型肺炎的“铁证”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; drenched in protective clothing for six hours, when they were in the laboratory looking for "iron proof" of new pneumonia;;
var msg_desc = "实验室检测员，将在病毒检测实验室里度过24小时。
var msg _ desc = & quot; laboratory tester, will spend 24 hours in a virus detection laboratory.
这里的不眠之夜，与2000多万上海市民息息相关。
The sleepless nights here are closely related to the more than 20 million people in Shanghai.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '这一刻，我为你泪目，我为你骄傲！',。
I was proud of you at the moment when I cried for you!
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '发烧了好几天，今天我去了趟发热门诊',。
I've had a fever for days and I went to fever clinic & apos; today.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
