系列报道 | 一个摇滚乐队主唱发起募捐，他随后经历了一些胜利、一些波澜和一些释怀。
A rock band lead singer who launched the fund-raising campaign has since experienced some victories, some waves and some relief.
记录改变中的全球文化图景。
Record the changing global cultural landscape.
这是疫情信息笼罩的第三周。
This is the third week of information on the epidemic.
疫区之外，很多人足不出户，长时间坐在电脑前。
Outside the affected areas, many people sit in front of their computers for long periods of time.
屏幕里是层出不穷的求助，家破人亡的悲剧，一出又一出的荒诞和不义。
Screen is endless help, home destruction tragedy, a grotesque and unjust.
线上线下的割裂感让人无法心安理得地享受自己现有的安全。
The sense of severing offline makes one not feel at ease enjoying one's own existing security.
除了让自己沉浸在悲伤、愤怒和强烈的无力感中，当灾难来临，作为这个国家的年轻人，该如何度过这段特殊时期？涂俊南是摇滚乐队「丢莱卡」的主唱。
In addition to immersing himself in grief, anger and a strong sense of powerlessness, when disaster strikes, how do you, the young people of this country, get through this special period? Toongnam is the lead singer of the rock band Throwka.
去年底到今年一月初，乐队南下，跑了一趟南方巡演，其中倒数第三站是武汉。
Late last year until the beginning of January, the band went south on a tour, the penultimate stop is Wuhan.
回到北京后，「新冠肺炎」疫情信息爆炸。
Back in Beijing, the "New Crown Pneumonia" outbreak of information explosion.
涂俊南和几位乐迷网友自发结成了捐助小组「搞点东西」，开始寻找物资，筹集款项，联系疫区医院，进行点对点捐助。
Tu Junnan and a few fans formed a voluntary donor group "do something", began to look for supplies, raise funds, contact the epidemic area hospital, point-to-point donations.
参与「搞点东西」小组筹款的多是年轻的摇滚乐迷。
Young rock 'n' roll fans are most likely to take part in the 'do something' group.
因为疫情，摇滚乐迷暂时失去了现场，他们在捐助群里集结，像抢演出票那样参与捐助。
Because of the epidemic, rock 'n' roll fans temporarily lost the scene and gathered in the donor community to donate like a ticket.
以下是涂俊南的口述。
Here is Toongnam's dictation.
1 月 12 号，我们乐队巡演到了武汉，13 号因为误车，又多滞留了一下午。
January 12, our band tour to Wuhan, because the 13th missed the bus, another afternoon stay.
那时我已经在微博上看到一些经常发时事的网友，发肺炎相关的消息了。
By that time, I had seen on Weibo a lot of current affairs netizens, the news of pneumonia.
但在武汉的两天里，无论是场地的人、乐迷，还是火车站的人，一切如常。
But during the two days in Wuhan, no matter the venue people, fans, or people at the railway station, everything remained the same.
没有人戴口罩，除了一个乐迷之外没有任何人因此紧张。
No one was wearing a mask, and no one was nervous except one fan.
离开武汉，乐队到了成都。
Leaving Wuhan, the band arrived in Chengdu.
演出当天我开始发烧。
On the day of the performance I began to have a fever.
接下来几天，一直到 19 号回到北京的演出，我都有些虚弱。
The next few days, until my return to Beijing on the 19th, I was a little weak.
北京演出之后，有乐迷知道我们去过武汉，再次提醒我，肺炎的情况很严重。
After the performance in Beijing, some fans knew that we had been to Wuhan and reminded me again that pneumonia was very serious.
当时我已经退烧痊愈了，但大概就在那两三天，网上关于肺炎的消息爆炸式增长。
I had a fever and recovered, but it was about two or three days before the online news of pneumonia exploded.
19 号演完回到家，我大量看相关新闻，紧张起来。
Back home on the 19th, I watched a lot of the news and got nervous.
那时大家对这个病的认识很少，我想万一我被感染，这一周中接触过这么多人，事情就太严重了。
There was little awareness of the disease then, and I thought it would be too serious if I was infected with so many people this week.
第二天，我就去中日友好医院检查。
The next day, I went to the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital.
在发热门诊登记分诊时，工作人员首先就问，有没有去过武汉。
In the fever clinic registration sub-consultation, the staff first asked, has not been to Wuhan.
我说，我 13 号从武汉离开的。
I said I left Wuhan on the 13th.
当时所有人都流露出一种「啊，来了一个」的神情，然后立刻安排我优先检查。
There was a look of "Ah, here comes one," and I was immediately given priority.
我做了一个流感检查，做了血常规，拍了胸部 CT，检查结果也先于其他病人出来了 —— 还好，只是普通的感冒，不是肺炎。
I had a flu test, a blood test, a chest CT, and the results came out before the other patients - just a common cold, not pneumonia.
19 号回北京当天，我一下飞机就在路上的便利店轻松买到 3M 没有空气阀的口罩。
The day I got back to Beijing on the 19th, I easily bought a 3M air-tight mask from a convenience store on the way.
之后信息爆炸，第二天我再买口罩，已经很难找到了。
Then the message exploded, and the next day I bought a mask, which was hard to find.
我把口罩分了一些给我们乐队的人和还没回家的朋友，几乎是用恐吓的语气跟他们说，「不戴口罩你完蛋了」。
I parceled out the mask to our band mates and friends who had not yet come home, almost in a threatening voice, "You're done for without a mask."
「人传人」确认了。
Human-to-human confirmation.
23 号武汉封城前后，大量病例、惨剧在网上爆出来。
Wuhan 23 before and after the closure of a large number of cases, tragic online burst out.
我回想那两天在武汉大街上，在 Live House 那样人挤人的封闭空间里，没有人戴口罩。
I recall two days in Wuhan Street, in a crowded enclosed space like Live House, where no one was wearing a mask.
我看到的整个城市处于零防护状态 —— 而那时候，已经有人正在死掉了。
The whole city I saw was in zero protection - and by that time someone was already dying.
我感到后怕，甚至有一种很轻微的劫后余生的感觉。
I was afraid, even a very slight sense of the rest of life.
接着我看到了更多病患的求助信息，各种人间惨剧。
And then I saw more patients' help messages, all kinds of human tragedy.
疫情达到了全民关注的程度，整个互联网上都是很糟糕、很痛苦的事情和话语，强烈的恐慌和绝望，有一种很强的末世感。
The epidemic has reached national proportions, with terrible, painful events and words, intense panic and despair, and a strong sense of end-of-life throughout the Internet.
而官方，根本不能指望他们的反应速度。
Officially, they can't be expected to react quickly.
这刺激到了我。
This is exciting for me.
我想做点事情，做点有希望的事情。
I want to do something, do something promising.
今年不是我第一次过年不回家了。
This is not the first time I haven't been home for Spring Festival.
我不喜欢过年，总是避开春节，年后再回家陪爸妈。
I do not like Spring Festival, always avoid Spring Festival, after the year to go home with my parents.
大年三十那天，我和几个没有回家的朋友约好了一起吃年夜饭。
On New Year's Eve, I made an appointment with some friends who didn't come home for Chinese New Year's Eve dinner.
早上，我买完菜回到朋友家休息。
In the morning, I returned to my friend's house after shopping.
我坐下来，先给所有在武汉的朋友一一发微信或者打电话，确认他们都平安，稍微安心了一点。
I sat down and gave all my friends in Wuhan a message or a phone call to make sure they were all safe and a little relieved.
然后我认真检查了一遍网友发给我的微博私信，看到乐队的一个乐迷跟我说，他们想做一些筹款捐助，问我能不能帮忙宣传。
Then I went over the microblogging emails I received from my online friends and saw a fan of the band telling me they wanted to make some donations to raise money and ask if I could help promote it.
我说，好，然后开始编辑文案发布。
I said, okay, and I started editing the release.
同时，她把我拉到他们的组织群里，群里有 7 个人，其中几个来自山东一个乐迷组织，还有几个也是线上认识的乐迷。
At the same time, she pulled me into their group of seven people, several from a Shandong music fan group, and a few fans who had also met online.
从上午到下午 5 点，我们一直在讨论捐助，把各种医院发的求助公告扔到群里，场面很混乱。
From morning till 5pm, we've been talking about donations, throwing help notices from various hospitals into the group, and the scene was chaotic.
所有人都很着急，都在喊「我们一定要做点什么」，但没有一个头绪。
Everyone was in a hurry, shouting "We must do something," but there was no clue.
我说，我们先确定一下有哪几块工作，怎样分工。
I said, first let's make sure which pieces of work there are, how to divide the work.
一个群友差点跟我吵起来。
A group of friends almost quarreled with me.
他特别急，觉得整这些没用的干嘛，直接找，直接寄不就完了。
He is very urgent, feel the whole useless why, look directly, do not send directly to end.
我的态度是，如果我们要持续做下去，一定要有组织，否则一会儿就乱了。
My attitude is, if we're going to keep doing it, we have to be organized, or we're gonna be in a mess.
其实大家完全没问题，都是一腔热血想尽快帮到武汉的医院。
In fact, we all have no problem, are eager to help Wuhan hospital as soon as possible.
其他人劝了一阵，大家冷静下来，确定了分工。
Others talked for a while, and everyone calmed down and determined the division of labour.
我先建了一个公用的石墨文档，让大家把资源和捐助信息贴在里面。
I first created a common graphite file that lets people post information about resources and donations.
然后我又建了一个文档，做账目明细表，实时更新。
Then I created a file, made a breakdown of the accounts and updated it in real time.
我来记账，也负责宣传和后续的信息公示。
I'll keep the books, and I'll be responsible for the publicity and follow-up.
另一个人专门负责联络医院。
The other person was responsible for contacting the hospital.
其他人都负责找物资。
Everyone else is in charge of finding supplies.
群里还有一个有中科院背景的女孩，长期在实验室工作，有一定经验，她把口罩、防护镜等物资的标准认真读了一遍，根据她的经验来判断哪些物资符合标准。
The group also has a Chinese Academy of Sciences background girl, long-term laboratory work, with some experience, she carefully read the standards of masks, protective goggles and other materials, judging from her experience which items meet the criteria.
她也找了一些之前给实验室供货的内部货源。
She also found some internal sources that had previously been supplied to the lab.
就这样，我们开始了捐助工作。
In this way, we have begun the work of donating.
我们的组织叫「搞点东西」。
Our organization is called "do something."
「搞点东西」的筹款方式相比于其他民间捐助小组是比较特别的。
The "get something" approach to fundraising is special compared to other private donor groups.
大部分捐助小组是先拉群筹到一笔钱，再买物资。
Most donor groups raise a certain amount of money before buying supplies.
而我们组织里所有人都是网上认识的，一切联系和操作都在线上，参与捐助的也都是网友。
And all of us in our organization know each other online, all the connections and operations are online, and the contributors are all net friends.
我们很怕出现记错账目，或者筹到一大笔钱却没有买到东西之类的状况，担心作为民间组织，却把这事给搞坏了。
We are afraid of things like miscounting, or raising a lot of money and not buying anything, and we worry that being a civil society organization will ruin it.
所以我们从开始就比较谨慎，购买的物资量不大，由我们内部群里的人先垫钱，再去筹款，控制在能把握的范围内。
So we were careful from the beginning to buy a small amount of material, by our inner group of people to advance money, and then fund-raising, within manageable limits.
参与筹款的人基本都是年轻乐迷，没有太多钱，我们的筹款数额也不能太大，否则几天就把大家榨干了。
The people involved in raising money are mostly young fans, do not have much money, we can not raise a large amount of money, or else a few days to squeeze everyone dry.
发起组织的群主提议开一个淘宝链接，让大家用补邮费的方式转钱。
The sponsors of the group proposed to open a Taobao link to let everyone use the way mail transfer money.
我说，不如直接用我们乐队的微店，微店提现特别快捷。
I said, how about using our band's microstore, the micro-shop cash is particularly fast.
我在乐队微店开一块钱的链接，上限设置为购买物资的款项。
I have a dollar link in the band's boutique, capped at the amount of money I buy.
第一次开的链接被封掉了。
The first link was blocked.
后来我把商品名称里的「武汉」两个字拿掉，链接就开成功了。
Later I took the word "Wuhan" from the trade name and the link was successful.
每次买完物资，我们会在筹款大群里公告，这次我们买了什么东西，花了多少钱，预告几点钟发筹款链接。
After each purchase, we announce in a fund-raising group what we have bought this time, how much we have spent, and when to send out a fund-raising link.
基本上秒空。
Basically a second blank.
尤其是大家热情高涨那几天，半分钟不到就捐满了。
Especially when the enthusiasm of those days, less than half a minute to donate.
很有意思的是，因为群里基本都是各方面来的乐迷，我们开玩笑说，抢捐款的感觉就像抢演出票，参与感特别强。
Interestingly, because the group is mostly made up of fans from all walks of life, we joke that the feeling of being involved is like taking a ticket.
每次发链接时我就说：「现在开始抢票。
Every time I post a link, I say, "Begin to steal tickets now.
」大家就特别高兴开始抢。
"Everyone was very happy to start.
我看到手机上不断的提醒就想，好爽，要是我们演出票也卖这么快就好了。
I saw the constant reminders on the phone and thought, "Good idea, if only we were selling tickets so fast."
半分钟抢空了，我就在群里说：「售罄了。
"I emptied it in half a minute and then I said," It's sold out.
」大家就开始发「终于抢到了」、「我要高价出掉」那种抢票话术，甚至都有点幽默了。
"People began to issue" finally snatched, "" I want to pay a high price, "the kind of ticket snatch, even a little humor.
大群一直是 500 人满的，从 24 号到今天，每天都挺活跃，有很好的信息共享和互助的气氛。
Large groups of 500 people have been full, from the 24th to today, every day is quite active, there is a good atmosphere of information-sharing and mutual assistance.
大家在群里讨论疫情，转发微博、朋友圈看到的消息，关心医护人员的报道，一起骂红十字会。
People in the group to discuss the epidemic, forward micro-blog, friends to see the news, care about the reports of health care workers, together curse the Red Cross.
有时也会在群里找同城市的人，分享一下哪里能买到口罩、消毒液。
Sometimes in the group to find the city's people, to share where can buy masks, disinfectant.
每到深夜，刚刚抢完一轮「票」，大家就会闲聊一会儿。
Every late night, just after a round of "tickets", we will chat for a while.
一个人说，今天看消息看得实在太丧，发点猫狗来看看。
One person said, today to see the news really too sad, to send some cats and dogs to see.
然后就是几百条的小猫小狗刷屏。
Then there are hundreds of dogs and cats scrubbing screens.
我每次点进群里扫一眼，看到疫情的讨论、摇滚乐视频和猫猫狗狗，会觉得有点好玩，有种奇怪的温馨。
Every time I look into the group and see the epidemic discussions, rock music videos and cats and dogs, it's a little funny, a strange kind of warmth.
我发现当代年轻的摇滚乐迷组织，虽然肯定比不上饭圈，但调动能力、组织性、消息传播力度和关系网络也还是挺厉害的，做起事来挺高效的。
I found that contemporary young rock 'n' roll fan groups, while certainly not nearly as good as the dining circle, are highly mobile, organized, informative and networking-like, and efficient at doing things.
我们小组第一天买的口罩，几天没发货，然后我们在一个共享的淘宝问题商家列表上看到了这个商家，赶紧退款。
The mask our team bought the first day didn't deliver in a few days, and then we saw the merchant on a shared Taobao problem list and got a refund.
很快我们就决定不做口罩了。
Soon we decided not to make masks.
我觉得口罩就是个深渊，特别难找，全国人民都在抢。
I feel that the mask is a deep abyss, especially difficult to find, the people all over the country are looting.
在这种情况下货源实在太杂了，有良心厂家、无良厂家，还有二道贩子，一个消息被几百人传，转到我们手上已经不知道第几手了，我们实在没办法辨别真伪。
In this case, the supply of goods is too complex, there are conscientious manufacturers, unscrupulous manufacturers, and two traffickers, a message by hundreds of people, we do not know the hands of the hands, we really can not distinguish between the true and false.
我们最后一次试着找口罩时联系到一个厂家，几乎应有尽有，什么 N95 十万个，医用口罩十五万个，防护服二十五万套 …… 我们吓死了，说这个人是军火商吗？太不靠谱了。
The last time we tried to find a mask, we contacted one manufacturer, almost everything. N950, 000, 150, 000 medical masks, 250,000 suits... We were scared to death. Was this man an arms dealer? That's too much.
再后来就听说，所有口罩货源都由政府接管了。
Later it was heard that the government had taken over the supply of all the masks.
我们小组最好的一点就是心里有数。
One of the best things about our group is knowing.
比如，我们很快就确认做不了口罩，不如做点好买点的手套、护目镜。
For example, we quickly confirmed that we could not make masks, rather than do a good buy some gloves, goggles.
再比如，所有组织都在做武汉，有的遇到物资被拦截，或者东西运到了，医护人员却没用上，各种情况，很混乱。
For example, all the organizations are doing Wuhan, some supplies were intercepted, or things arrived, but the medical staff is useless, all kinds of conditions, very confused.
我们很快决定不做武汉，专注做周边地市那些不太有人关注的医院。
We quickly decided not to do Wuhan, focusing on the surrounding city's less-noticed hospitals.
无论是找物资还是对接医院，我们都控制在力所能及的范围内，目的是让捐助能够持续做下去。
Whether we are looking for supplies or docking hospitals, we are doing everything we can to keep donations going.
有时，你看到医院发来的收货照片，就会觉得，我们只是一群陌生人在网上一顿操作，结果就真变成了具体的实物，到了他们手里。
Sometimes, when you look at the pictures you receive from the hospital, you feel like we're just a bunch of strangers on the Internet, and it turns out to be a real thing, in their hands.
还有些时候，你在网上看到求助消息，那个地方正好是我们捐助医院所在地，你会联想，我们这次捐的东西可能就用在他 / 她身上了。
There are also times when you see help messages on the Internet, where our donor hospital is located, and you might think that our donation might be for him or her.
这些时候，就会觉得自己真是在做一件多少有点意义的事情。
These are the times when you feel like you're actually doing something more or less meaningful.
捐助不是网络上的一个数字而已，它可能真的帮到了某个具体的人。
Donations are not just numbers on the web; they can really help a specific person.
有时到了深夜，组里也会聊，我们做这些是不是没有用？我们的捐助量很小。
Sometimes in the middle of the night, the group will also talk about whether it is useless for us to do this? Our donations are small.
并且你看到全国这么大规模的捐助、支援下，每天依然有层出不穷的坏消息。
And you can see that there is still a lot of bad news every day with such large-scale donations and support from all over the country.
有时候也会有无力感，产生怀疑。
Sometimes there is a sense of powerlessness and suspicion.
但我还是觉得，做永远比不做好。
But I still think it's better to do it than never.
我跟小组的人说，捐和不捐是 0 跟 100 的关系。
I told the group that giving and not giving is a zero-to-100 relationship.
比如你捐了 100 副手套，就只有这么点儿，但就有 100 个医护人员可以用上，可以有更好的防护。
For example, if you donate 100 pairs of gloves, that's all, but there are 100 health care workers who can use them and have better protection.
我也进了其他好多小组的群，想看看别人怎么做，同时共享信息。
I joined a number of other groups to see what others were doing and to share information.
到现在，很多小组都已经解散了，或者马上就要停了。
By now, many groups have been disbanded, or are about to stop.
大家遇到的问题其实都是那几个。
The problems we all have are actually those.
首先是买不到靠谱的物资。
The first is the unavailability of reliable supplies.
找物资很难，你从早到晚找了二三十家货源，一个一个确认下来，可能只有一家能买。
It's hard to find supplies. You've looked for twenty or thirty sources from morning till night, one by one, and maybe only one can buy.
有时还发现你买的物资是假冒伪劣产品，或者买了货，物流进不去。
Sometimes you also found that you bought fake and inferior products, or bought goods, logistics can not get in.
时间一长人就疲了，然后大家又各自有工作，没法持续地花时间去找。
As time goes on, people get tired, and then they all have jobs that they can't afford to spend time looking for.
有一个小组，当时和我们看到同一批口罩。
There was a group that saw the same masks as we did.
那时口罩已经很难买了。
Masks were hard to buy by then.
这批口罩一万个，要价 14 万，明显溢价。
The masks were 10,000 for 140,000 at a clear premium.
我们放弃了。
We gave up.
他们小组接了下来，那是他们买的第一批货，上来直接筹到 14 万资金。
Their group took it, the first consignment they had bought, and raised $140,000 directly.
我觉得好厉害。
I feel so good.
结果他们很快发现这批物资有问题，但 14 万已经筹到手了，只能去买别的物资，可是过了几天，没法把这个钱花掉。
They soon discovered that there was something wrong with the goods, but 140,000 had already been raised and had to buy something else, but after a few days it was impossible to spend the money.
后来他们发了个道歉声明，接下来的四五天都在干一件事，就是一笔一笔退钱。
Then they made an apology, and for the next four or five days they did one thing: a refund.
我每天晚上看他们在群里圈所有人，公告今天退了多少钱。
Every night I watch them circle everyone in the group and announce how much they paid back today.
我感觉他们所有人都退崩了。
I feel like all of them are gone.
一旦经历过这样的事，你就很难再提起劲来继续做了。
Once you've been through this, it's hard to pick up the energy to get on with it.
现在，我们组内部群的 7 个人里，日常说话的只有三四个人，另外几个基本消失了。
Now, of the seven people in our group, only three or four were speaking every day, and the others were almost gone.
我想他们可能找物资找崩溃了，同时也有自己的事要忙。
I think they may be looking for something to break down, but also have their own things to do.
这是志愿者组织一定会遇到的情况，本身就是出于志愿的行动，你不能约束或者 Push 任何人必须完成什么。
It's something that volunteer organizations are bound to encounter. It's an act of voluntarism. You can't discipline or push anyone to accomplish something.
我心态没有崩，可能是因为我不负责直接对接医院或者联系供货商，压力没那么大。
My mentality did not break down, probably because I was not responsible for docking directly to the hospital or contacting suppliers, the pressure is not so great.
我也是其中唯一无业且不在家的人，这段时间比较空闲。
I was also the only unemployed and out-of-the-house person, with relatively free time.
其实我觉得，一开始大家都很热心、很上头的状态是不正常的。
In fact, I think, everyone is very warm-hearted at the beginning, very top of the state is abnormal.
现在，热情淡下去，人员变少，进展变慢的情况下，你还在做，反而是更可能坚持下去的。
Now, with less enthusiasm, fewer people and slower progress, you're still doing it and are more likely to stick to it.
你不能凭借热情和外部给你的动力来做事情。
You can't do things with enthusiasm and external motivation.
热情一定会冷却，它需要不断变现来刺激才能够维系。
Enthusiasm must cool and it needs to be cashed in to keep going.
但当你理智、冷静地想明白自己应该这样做，这个过程中你可能获得一些小的回馈，听到一点小的回声，这种状态是比较可以持续的。
But when you're sane and dispassionate about what you should be doing, you may get some small feedback and a little echo in the process, which is more sustainable.
你是由内在力量而不是外在刺激来驱动的。
You are driven by inner rather than external stimuli.
对于我来说，我做这件事，首先是因为看到那些消息很受不了。
As far as I am concerned, I did it first of all because I could not bear to see the news.
这种程度的帮助谈不上能改变什么，但可能可以让一些人的情况稍微好一点。
This level of help can hardly make a difference, but it may make some people a little better off.
另外，我想如果我们把这件事持续下去，可能会让一些看到的人也参与进来，或做一些别的行动。
Plus, I think if we keep it going, maybe we'll get some people to join us or do something else.
昨天我的手机提醒我，上礼拜我每天屏幕使用时间是 9 小时，基本上都在看各种疫情信息。
Yesterday my cell phone reminded me that I spent nine hours a day on the screen last week, basically reading all kinds of epidemic information.
其实我看到那些人间惨剧时，除了共情、难受，还有种负罪感，非常羞愧 —— 为什么受苦的是你？失去亲人的是你？而我自己舒舒服服地坐在有空调的房间里，对着电脑看这些。
In fact, when I saw those human tragedies, in addition to empathy, pain, but also a sense of guilt, very ashamed - why you suffer? It is you who have lost loved ones? I sit comfortably in my air-conditioned room and look at the computer.
可能是因为这种感受，我在做捐助的事情时，心里会有一点点赎罪的感觉。
Perhaps because of that feeling, I feel a little atonement in my heart when I do the donation.
29 号那天下午，我跟朋友出门做北京环卫工人口罩佩戴和防疫情况调研，一个下午都在街上跟不同的环卫工人聊。
On the afternoon of the 29th, I went out with my friends to do a survey on the wearing of face masks and epidemic prevention in Beijing.
晚上回到家，我开始回消息，整理捐助列表，准备写当天的捐助日志。
Back home in the evening, I began to reply, to organize the list of donations, to write the day's donation log.
写之前，我上了一下微博，又是各种悲惨的消息扑面而来。
Before I wrote, I posted a microblog, and all sorts of sad news came.
我的脑子一直在转，想起了下午上街跟环卫工人聊天时，一个个特别小的细节。
My mind kept spinning, remembering the small details of the afternoon conversation with the sanitation workers.
有一个工友。
There's a janitor.
我问他，你公司叫什么？他真的想了好久，不知道，然后拉住另一个工友问。
I asked him, what was your company's name? He really thought about it for a long time.
他甚至搞不清自己在哪个公司，更别说获得什么应有的防护和保障了。
He did not even know which company he was with, let alone what protection and protection he deserved.
一个特别健谈，五六十岁的大爷，听口音应该是密云的。
A particularly talkative, 50-60-year-old grandfather, should listen to the accent should be Miyun.
他说：「死就死了。
He said, "Death is death.
这个病不落到你们年轻人身上，你们抵抗力好，都是我们这个年纪的人得。
This disease does not fall on you young people, your resistance is good, all people of our age.
」他一直是笑着说的，消极又无所谓的样子。
"He said it all the time with a smile, passive and indifferent.
另一个大爷，他们公司只在一周前发过一只棉口罩，他那个口罩的网都黑掉了。
Another man, his company only a week ago issued a cotton mask, the net of his mask all black.
他说：「我戴不戴无所谓」。
He said, "It doesn't matter if I wear it."
然后他跟我们闲聊了一些监工之类的事，又说，「这些事你们不要发，被知道了会罚款」。
Then he chatted with us about overseers and things like that, and said, "You don't want to do this, you know you're going to be fined."
还有一个山东大爷跟我们说，他们跟公司的合同都是三个月一签或者半年一签的。
There is also a Shandong uncle told us that their contracts with the company are signed every three months or half a year.
我问，为什么这么签。
I asked why I signed it.
他回答：「我们环卫工人都是上年纪的，你要是死在工作岗位上什么的，对吧？」他说得云淡风轻。
He replied, "We sanitation workers are very old, if you die at work or something, right?" He said gently.
他们真的太危险了。
They're really too dangerous.
环卫工人平均年龄六十岁以上，他们每天接触那么多垃圾，空气里飘扬着细菌、病毒，而给他们提供的防护措施是那样的？我想起这些，觉得在微博上看到的那些惨剧，很有可能就会发生在某个环卫工人身上。
I think of the average age of sanitation workers over 60, the amount of rubbish they are exposed to every day, the bacteria and viruses in the air, and the precautions they take against them.
太难过了。
It's too bad.
然后我就崩了。
And then I collapsed.
我坐在电脑前，发呆，抽烟，大概过了一个多小时，想起今天的捐助日志还没写。
I sat in front of the computer, dazed, smoking, for more than an hour, remembering that today's donation log had not been written.
我告诉自己，别这样，该做的事还得做。
I told myself, come on, there's still work to be done.
最近这几天捐助越来越难，进度变慢了，我反倒有更多时间来想一些七七八八的事。
These days donations are getting harder and slower, and I have more time to think about things.
理智告诉我，在我们这一代所能看到的时间里，整个社会的状况是不会变好的，希望渺茫。
Reason tells me that in the time that our generation can see, the state of society as a whole will not change for the better, with little hope.
但是我需要去相信，最终会变好的。
But I need to believe that in the end it will be all right.
我知道我们可以做很多事情，如果大家都做出一些行动，量变才能引发质变。
I know there are a lot of things we can do, and if we all do something about it, quantitative change can lead to qualitative change.
我不知道那到底是什么时候，不知道真正的变革什么时候才到来，但我知道我们可以做一些事。
I don't know when that will be, or when real change will come, but I know there's something we can do.
我想，其实这次疫情里，这一段时间出现的各种人、事和状况，会让大家有触动和思考，重新去认知这个社会，重新去学习怎么当一个这个国家的年轻人，怎么有意义地活着。
I think, in fact, this epidemic, this period of time of the various people, events and conditions, we will have a touch and think, to re-recognize the community, to learn how to be a country's young people, how to live meaningfully.
这肯定是会写进历史书里的几个月。
This will definitely be written into the history books for months.
所有人在这段时间过去之后，都会有一些变化。
There will be some change for all of us after this time.
虽然大家很悲观，觉得疫情结束后，人们回归正常生活，一切就跟原来一样了。
Although everyone is pessimistic, people feel that after the end of the epidemic, people return to normal life, everything is the same.
但我还是相信，最近这种信息密度的冲击中，只要你有一点点念头，觉得有点不对劲，都可能给你带来一个很长远的变化。
But I still believe that the recent information density shock, if you have a little thought, feel a bit out of place, may bring you a long-term change.
我和我的前女友分开之后已经有一段时间没联系了，我们不再是微信好友。
It's been a while since my ex-girlfriend and I broke up and we're no longer friends.
疫情爆发后，她在网上看到我在组织捐助，突然又给我发短信，转来一些我们可能忽略掉的医院求助信息。
After the outbreak, she saw me on the Internet organizing donations, then suddenly sent me text messages, transferred some hospital help information that we might have overlooked.
我们像以前讨论一些公共问题那样，讨论了一下疫情和捐助。
We discussed the epidemic and donations, as we have discussed some public issues before.
我问她，她家那边情况怎样。
I asked her how things were at her house.
她说，还好。
She said, It's all right.
然后她说，你那么不爱洗手的人，你多洗手。
Then she says, 'Wash your hands as much as you do those who don't.
我远远地看到她也一直都在微博上发声，用供职单位的账号帮助做信息筛查，有种很奇妙的感觉。
I have seen her voice on microblogging all the time, with the help of the service unit account to do information screening, a very strange feeling.
我们乐队的其他人，过去就像很多乐手那样，认为我做好音乐当我的艺术家就好了，这个世界就是那样，我不关心别的，关心也没用。
The rest of our band, like a lot of musicians in the past, thought I'd be good at music. That's what the world is like. I don't care about anything. It's no use caring.
但这一回，我看到他们也开始转发一些信息，说一些话。
But this time, I saw them start forwarding messages and saying something.
我们乐队的贝斯手还主动跟我一起去做环卫调研。
Our band's bass player also volunteered to work with me on sanitation research.
我们想，等疫情结束之后，乐队立刻去武汉，做一次免票演出。
We thought that when the epidemic was over, the band would go to Wuhan and do a free show.
策划：《T》中文版编辑部采访 &撰文：小黄编辑：李森 设计：子慜 编排：Lu Wang。
Planning: T-Version Chinese Editing & amp; Writing: Rhubarb Editor: Li Sen Design: Zi Chao Choreography: Lu Wang.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
系列报道 | 一个摇滚乐队主唱发起募捐，他随后经历了一些胜利、一些波澜和一些释怀。
A rock band lead singer who launched the fund-raising campaign has since experienced some victories, some waves and some relief.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "系列报道 | 一个摇滚乐队主唱发起募捐，他随后经历了一些胜利、一些波澜和一些释怀";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; A rock band lead singer who subsequently had some success, some waves, and some relief and quotation;
var msg_desc = "当灾难来临，作为这个国家的年轻人，该如何度过这段特殊时期？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
title: '作为「暗夜之乐」的摇滚艺术，如何融入我们的生活并消解痛苦？',。
A: How did Ricky Rock & Roll, the night before, integrate into our lives and relieve its pain? & amp; apos;
title: '行为艺术可以解答社会棘手问题吗？是的！',。
A: Does the art of behavior answer any of its thorny questions? Yes!
