家属口述｜一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天_澎湃关注_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Family Ordering The Paper The Last 12 days of intense concern for a "severe pneumonia" patient.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
家属口述｜一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天。
The family dictated less than 12 days to a patient with severe pneumonia.
澎湃新闻记者 明鹊。
The journalist magpie.
2020-01-28 20:46 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-01-28 20: 46 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
翁秋秋至死也不知道自己患的是什么病。
Weng Qiuqiu did not know what illness he was suffering from until he died.
病势汹汹，从头痛、咳嗽到呼吸困难，“肺全变白了”直至死亡仅仅12天。
From headaches and coughing to breathlessness, the disease "turned white" until just 12 days after death.
那是2020年1月21日，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情正从武汉向全国蔓延，翁秋秋所在的湖北黄冈蕲春县距离武汉不过百余里，黄冈是武汉之外疫情最严重的地区。
On January 21, 2020, the outbreak of new coronavirus-infected pneumonia is spreading from Wuhan to the whole country, and the Huanggang Agkistrodon Agkistrodon county in Huangqiu county, Huangqiu county, in Huangqiu county, is only a hundred miles away from Wuhan.
医生告诉翁秋秋的丈夫陈勇，她患的是不明肺炎。
The doctor told her husband Chen Yong that she was suffering from unexplained pneumonia.
在花光了借来的二十来万医药费后，翁秋秋的病情没有好转，陈勇最终签下放弃治疗的同意书。
After spending up to 200,000 medical bills, Weng Qiuqiu did not improve, Chen finally signed up to give up the consent to give up treatment.
死亡时，翁秋秋还不满32岁，她刚查出自己怀孕不久。
At the time of her death, Weng Qiuqiu was under the age of 32 and she had just discovered that she was pregnant.
死亡证明上，她的死因写着：“重症肺炎、呼吸衰竭、感染性休克”。
On the death certificate, her death was written as follows: "Severe pneumonia, respiratory failure, septic shock."
很难追溯她的死与新冠病毒有无关系。
It's hard to trace her death to the new crown virus.
截至1月27日24时，国家卫健委收到30个省（区、市）累计报告确诊病例4515例，现有疑似病例6973例。
As of 2400 hours on January 27, the National Fitness and Health Commission had received a total of 4,515 confirmed cases reported in 30 provinces (districts and municipalities), with 6973 suspected cases.
与此同时，1月24日，武汉大学人民医院研究组发布的报告提示，新型冠状病毒肺炎症状多样，容易漏诊误诊。
At the same time, January 24, Wuhan University People's Hospital Research Group issued a report suggesting that the new coronavirus pneumonia symptoms are diverse, easy to miss diagnosis misdiagnosis.
检测病毒的试剂盒一度短缺，是确诊难的原因之一。
A shortage of test kits to detect the virus was one of the reasons for the difficulty of diagnosis.
此外，1月22日之前，武汉市所有疑似病例的样本都需送到湖北省疾控中心统一检测，22日之后为加快检测速度，检测权下放到各个定点医院。
Before January 22, samples of all suspected cases in Wuhan city had to be sent to the CDC in Hubei Province for unified testing.
中国疾控中心主任高福接受央视采访时表示，将保障病毒检测的试剂盒下沉到基层的数量。
Gao Fu, director of the China CDC, told CCTV that the number of kits used to test the virus would sink to the base.
陈勇不知道如何回答大女儿的问题：妈妈去哪儿了。
Chen Yong did not know how to answer his eldest daughter's question: Where had his mother gone?
他懊悔自己不够坚持，有时他想如果继续治疗，妻子也许能抢救回来。
He regretted that he had not insisted enough, and sometimes he thought his wife might be able to save him if he continued his treatment.
以下是陈勇的口述：【一】1月7日的时候，妻子去菜市场买了鱼头，鸡肉，还有青菜，回家后做了一锅火锅，我们一起吃的饭，她胃口不错，吃了很多。
On January 7, my wife went to the vegetable market and bought fish heads, chicken and vegetables. When she came home, she made a pot of hot pot.
第二天，女儿幼儿园放假，妻子说她不舒服，让我去幼儿园把女儿接回来。
The next day, my daughter's kindergarten holiday, my wife said she was not feeling well, let me go to kindergarten to pick up her daughter.
1月9日，她和五岁的女儿在家里没有出去。
On 9 January, she and her five-year-old daughter stayed at home.
中午的时候，她给我发微信说感冒了，让我下班后带点感冒药回去，顺便买一盒验孕棒，她怀疑自己怀孕了。
At noon, she sent me a message saying she had a cold. Let me take some cold medicine and buy a box of pregnancy tests after work.
那天，我五点多下班，回家后把感冒药和验孕棒给她。
That day, I finished work at five o'clock, and when I got home, I gave her the cold medicine and progestational stick.
晚上六七点时，她告诉我说怀孕了，我当时还有点高兴。
At six or seven in the evening, she told me she was pregnant and I was a little happy.
晚上我做的饭菜，炒了一个猪肝，一个咸菜，还有一个青菜，她吃了一大碗饭，但精神状态不太好。
At night, I cooked a pork liver, a pickled vegetable, and a green vegetable. She ate a big bowl of rice, but she was not in a good mood.
我在厨房洗碗时，她就回房睡觉了，不久女儿也睡着了。
When I was washing dishes in the kitchen, she went back to bed. Soon her daughter fell asleep, too.
我当时以为她只是小感冒，休息下就会好，很快我也睡着了。
I thought she was just having a cold and I was going to get over it and I was fast asleep.
1月10日凌晨三点多，她突然把我叫醒，说自己不舒服，头痛，喉咙痛，她当时发烧38度多。
At 3 a. m. on January 10, she woke me up and said she was sick, had a headache, a sore throat, and had a fever of more than 38 degrees.
当晚，我们骑着电动车，带着女儿一起去了医院，因为家里没有人带小孩，我不放心把女儿一人留在家里。
That night, we rode an electric car, took our daughter to the hospital, because there were no children in the family, I do not feel comfortable leaving her at home alone.
我们去了黄冈市中医院，医生说要等到白天才能吊水，当时拿了点感冒药，回家路上突然下起雨来。
We went to the Huanggang Chinese Hospital. The doctor said it would not be possible to hoist water until daylight.
我们到家已经凌晨四点多，妻子一直咳嗽，没有睡着，我也没有睡着，就女儿睡了一会儿。
It was more than four o'clock in the morning when my wife coughed and did not sleep, so I slept for a while.
那天下了一整天雨，早上七点多我们起来，又去了黄冈市中医院，照了片子，医生说她喉咙感染发炎了，因为我老婆怀孕不能吃药打针，我们就转去了黄冈市妇幼保健院。
It rained all day. After seven o'clock in the morning, we got up and went to the Huanggang Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital. After taking a picture, the doctor said she had a sore throat.
那时已经到了中午，我们打算先回家，下午再去黄冈市妇幼保健院。
It was noon and we were going to go home first and then go to the Huanggang Maternal and Child Health Center in the afternoon.
回到家里后，我问妻子想吃什么，她说想喝粥。
When I got home, I asked my wife what she wanted to eat. She said she wanted porridge.
家里之前买了小米，我给她做了小米粥，她只吃了几口就吃不下了。
Before the family bought millet, I made her millet porridge, she only ate a few mouthfuls can not eat.
下午，我们到了黄冈市妇幼保健院，医生说怀孕不能吃药不能打针。
In the afternoon, we went to Huanggang Maternal and Child Health Center, the doctor said pregnancy can not take medicine can not injection.
我们又回到了黄冈市中医院，去了呼吸科，那时我老婆已经呼吸困难，没有力气，走路都走不动了，而且明显比平时怕冷。
We returned to the Huanggang Hospital and went to the respiratory department, where my wife was having difficulty breathing, had no strength, could not even walk and was noticeably colder than usual.
在黄冈市中医院做了一个心电图后，医生让我们转到黄冈市中心医院，没有看成后，我们又去了同济黄州医院。
After an electrocardiogram (ECG) was done at the Huanggang Hospital, the doctors referred us to the Huanggang Central Hospital. Instead, we went to Tongji Huangzhou Hospital.
那已经是下午四五点了。
It was four or five in the afternoon.
我们之前一直带着女儿，当时已经没有办法了，我打电话给孩子舅舅，他们过来把孩子接到了外公家。
We had been taking our daughter with us, and there was nothing we could do. I called my uncles and they came and took the baby to my grandpa's house.
我坐在医院凳子上问我媳妇，我们不走了，就住这里好不好？她那时已经不能说话了，只能不停地点头，我当时心里很难受……那一天非常漫长，到了晚上11点，妻子最终转院到了武汉的一家三甲医院。
Sitting on a hospital stool, I asked my wife if we were going to stay here? She could no longer talk, she just kept nodding, and I was very upset... that day was very long, until at 11 pm, my wife finally transferred to a hospital in Wuhan.
几天前，我就知道武汉出现传染性（新型冠状病毒）肺炎，但黄冈市还没有，我当时也没有想到，医生也没有说是传染性（新型冠状病毒）肺炎，我一心只想着怎么筹钱救妻子的命，怎么把她送到好的医院去。
A few days ago, I learned that Wuhan had infectious (new coronavirus) pneumonia, but Huanggang City did not, I did not think, the doctor did not say infectious (new coronavirus) pneumonia, I was only thinking how to raise money to save his wife's life, how to send her to a good hospital.
到了武汉的医院后，医生跟我说我妻子是病菌感染，肺部全都变白了。
When I got to the Wuhan hospital, the doctor told me that my wife was infected with germs and my lungs turned white.
【二】半年前，我们从蕲春县来到黄冈市，投入了3万块钱，跟人合伙开了一家门窗店。
Six months ago, we went to Huanggang from Agkistrodon County and set up a partnership with the Agkistrodon to set up a shop.
原本是希望改变以后的人生，没想到会发生这样的事情。
Originally hoped to change the life after, did not expect such a thing to happen.
我妻子今年32岁，她在我们入股的门窗店做业务员。
My wife is 32 years old and works as a salesman in our window shop.
1月份是淡季，她基本不出去跑了。
January is the low season, she hardly goes out to run.
门窗店因为刚开张，一直处于亏损的状态，我们每个月只有三千多块钱的基本工资。
The door and window shop, which had just opened, had been losing money, and we only had a basic salary of more than three thousand dollars a month.
除掉500块钱一个月的房租，女儿上幼儿园的钱，半年来每个月都入不敷出。
In addition to the rent of $500 a month, my daughter's money for kindergarten has been out of pocket every month for half a year.
原本打算1月12日放假后，我们回老家过年的。
We had planned to go back to our hometown for the New Year after the holiday on January 12.
1月10日晚上，妻子被送进了武汉的医院。
On the night of January 10, his wife was taken to a hospital in Wuhan.
一开始，她进入了发热科，到11日凌晨一两点，她转入急救室抢救，很快又进了重症监护室。
At first, she went into the fever department, and at 1 or 2 a.m. on November 11th, she was taken to the emergency room, where she was soon admitted to intensive care.
当晚医院很多病人，一些病人家属没有戴口罩，很多医护人员都戴了口罩，我跟护士要了几个口罩戴。
That night there were many patients in the hospital, some of their families were not wearing masks, many of them were wearing masks, and I asked the nurses for some masks.
妻子送到发热科后，就被隔离了，医生说她患了不明（原因）肺炎。
The wife was quarantined when she arrived at the fever department, and the doctor said she had pneumonia.
翁秋秋的CT诊断报告单 本文图片均为受访者提供第二天，医生跟我说，妻子这个病情很重，要修改治疗方案，需要用一种机器，费用很高，一天要两万块钱，而且只有不到10%的希望，我当时都要崩溃了。
Weng Qiuqiu's CT Diagnostic Report Card The next day, the doctor told me that my wife was in such a serious condition that I would have collapsed if I had to use a machine that would cost 20,000 yuan a day and had less than 10% hope.
那几天，我一直没有休息，到1月12日早上七点多，我实在困得受不了了，坐在医院的椅子上睡了一个多小时。
I did not rest for a few days, and by 7 o'clock on the morning of January 12, I was too sleepy to sit in the hospital chair for more than an hour.
那段时间，我和我妈住在附近的一家旅社，为了节约钱，第一天没有开空调，60块钱一个晚上。
During that time, my mother and I stayed at a nearby hotel. To save money, we didn't turn on the air conditioner on the first day.
第二天觉得实在太冷了，开了空调，80块钱一个晚上。
The next day it was too cold to turn on the air conditioner, 80 yuan a night.
当时旅舍住了很多家属，他们跟我一样，亲人患了肺炎在医院里面治疗。
The hostel was home to many family members who, like me, were being treated for pneumonia in the hospital.
白天的时候，我们在医院大食堂吃饭，八块一碗面，十四块钱一个饭。
During the day, we ate in the hospital cafeteria, eight dollars a bowl of noodles, fourteen yuan a meal.
我一直住在旅舍，又不能去医院看妻子，每天都在想怎么筹钱。
I've been living in a hostel and I can't go to the hospital to see my wife and think about how to raise money every day.
在黄冈医院的时候，我就向我哥哥借了一万块钱，后来我又跟所有的亲戚朋友都借了一遍。
When I was at Huanggang Hospital, I borrowed ten thousand dollars from my brother and then I borrowed them from all my relatives and friends.
我那时很害怕，一心只想着不能停药，要把妻子的命救回来。
I was so frightened that I could not stop taking medicine to save my wife's life.
我当时还打了市长热线、省长热线，以及很多媒体的电话，期间我还向社会筹款，筹到了四万多块钱，但是根本就不够。
I also called the mayor's hotline, the governor's hotline and a lot of media calls, and I raised more than 40,000 dollars from society, but that wasn't enough.
进医院的前三天，每天费用五六万块钱，之后每天费用两万多块钱。
The first three days in the hospital cost fifty or sixty thousand dollars a day, and then twenty thousand dollars a day thereafter.
另一方面，我想看看妻子，想跟她说说话，问她好些了没有，想吃什么，想去做什么……但一直看不到，有时打电话问医生，每次都是没有醒，还是一样的严重，或者更加严重了。
On the other hand, I wanted to see my wife, to talk to her, to ask her if she was better, what she wanted to eat, what she wanted to do... but I couldn't see, and sometimes I called my doctor and asked if she was awake, just as bad or worse.
她本来就怀孕，抵抗力也下降了。
She was already pregnant and her resistance was down.
医生告诉我，妻子手全都发紫了，后来脚也发紫了，都坏死了，病情恶化得特别快。
The doctor told me that my wife's hands were all purple, her feet were purple, she was dead, and she was getting very ill.
妻子进入重症监护室后，我再也没有看到过她，直到她变成一坛骨灰。
When my wife entered the intensive care unit, I never saw her again until she turned into ashes.
翁秋秋的诊断证明书【三】1月21日中午，我实在借不到钱了，妻子病情又没有任何好转，真的是灰心丧气，我跟我岳父商量后，签订了放弃治疗的同意书。
Weng Qiuqiu's Diagnostic Certificate 2007-9-24 15: 23 [hide] At noon on January 21st, I was really frustrated that my wife was not getting any better. After consulting my father-in-law, I signed a consent to give up treatment.
一个小时后的13点46分，我妻子过世了。
An hour later at 13: 46, my wife died.
当天晚上，她的遗体被送到殡仪馆火化。
That night, her body was sent to the funeral home to be cremated.
死亡证明写的是感染性休克、呼吸循环衰竭、重症肺炎。
The death certificates refer to septic shock, respiratory failure and severe pneumonia.
我后来知道，当时医院的一位老人，病情和我妻子一样严重，经治疗已经慢慢好转了，虽然还在隔离状态。
I later learned that an old man at the hospital, who was as ill as my wife, was slowly getting better after treatment, although still in isolation.
我现在内心非常复杂，虽然岳父母没有怪我，但我依旧很内疚。
I am very complicated now. Although my parents-in-law do not blame me, I still feel guilty.
我有时想，如果继续治疗，可能还能救得过来，但当时实在是没有办法了。
I sometimes thought that if I continued my treatment, I might still be able to get over it, but there was nothing I could do.
我们自己花了十八九万，全都是借来的，门窗的股份也退了出来，新农合保险报销了六万多。
We spent 190,000 of our own, all on borrowed money, and returned our shares in the doors and windows, and the NARI reimbursed more than 60,000 people.
我以前在外面工地干活，有时一个月赚两三千块钱，有时能赚六七千块钱，一年能赚一两万块钱回家。
I used to work outside, sometimes making two or three thousand dollars a month, sometimes six or seven thousand dollars, and ten or twenty thousand a year.
我老婆一直在家里做窗帘、衣服。
My wife has been making curtains and clothes at home.
我们结婚七年了，一直都没有什么积蓄，也没有房子、车子变卖，家里只有父母的一栋老房子。
We had been married for seven years, we had no savings, no house, no car, only an old house for our parents.
妻子过世第二天，我们在医院办完手续后，去了武昌殡仪馆拿骨灰盒，外面有十几个人和我们一样等着拿骨灰盒。
The day after my wife died, we went to Wuchang funeral parlour to pick up the urn. A dozen people outside were waiting for the urn like us.
拿到骨灰盒后，我们坐车回了老家，至今都没有回过黄冈市。
After getting the urn, we drove back to our hometown, and we have never returned to Huanggang.
我们回家后，很快武汉、黄冈都“封城”了，慢慢的，周边几个城市也都“封城”了。
After we return home, Wuhan, Huanggang are "closed", slowly, the surrounding cities are also "closed".
我现在很担心，一方面担心自己传染上了肺炎，另一方面也担心家里人被传染了，而且我现在欠了一屁股的债。
I'm worried, on the one hand, that I have pneumonia, on the other, that my family is infected, and that I am now in debt.
我哥哥接我女儿回家时，带着她去医院做了检查，没有查出问题，医生跟我哥哥说，只要人没有事，基本上就不会有什么事。
When my brother took my daughter home, he took her to the hospital for a check-up, but there was no problem. The doctor told my brother that as long as there was nothing wrong with the man, it was basically nothing.
我自己没有去检查，不过我状态也还算好。
I didn't check myself, but I'm in good shape.
这些天，我晚上躺在床上，每晚都睡不着，脑子里很乱，心痛得说不出话来……虽然是过年，但家里冷冷清清，村里的人都很紧张，大家基本都不出门。
These days, I lie in bed at night, every night can not sleep, my mind is confused, the heart is too painful to say... although it is New Year's Eve, but the family is cold, the village is very nervous, everyone basically does not go out.
女儿不知道发生了什么事，她太小了，理解不了，有时她问妈妈哪儿去了，我也不知道怎么回答她。
She was too young to understand. Sometimes she asked her mother where she had gone and I didn't know how to answer her.
（翁秋秋、陈勇为化名）(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(Weng Qiuqiu, Chen Yongwei alias) (This article comes from Peng Pai News, please download "Peng Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：黄芳校对：余承君。
Responsibility Editor: Huang Fang proofread by Yu Chengjun.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 不明肺炎 新型冠状病毒 检测试剂盒。
Key words & gt; & gt; New coronavirus detection kit for unspecified pneumonia.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Tracking: New coronavirus pneumonia.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
吸烟者感染新冠病毒率远低于非烟民？钟南山团队回复：不同意。
Smoking new crown virus rate is far lower than non-smokers? Zhong Nan Shan team reply: Not agreed.
致近四千人隔离者妻子：没撒谎，很抱歉。
To Nearly 4,000 Isolators Wife: I'm sorry I didn't lie.
进退两难，卡车司机被困国道已五天。
The trucker has been stranded on State Road for five days.
评论（16k）。
Comment (16k).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
钟南山团队实验室在患者粪便中检出新冠活病毒。
The Zhong Nan Shan team laboratory detected the new coronary virus in patients' feces.
国家卫健委：新增15152例确诊病例，累计59804例。
National Health Commission: 15,152 new cases confirmed, a cumulative total of 59804 cases.
湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例4823例，累计51986例。
There were 4,823 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei province, a total of 51986 cases.
中央领导小组：孝感、黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等隔离救治措施。
Central leading group: filial piety, Huanggang and other places to take the same isolation and treatment measures as Wuhan.
热血出征。
Hot-blooded combat.
日本北方四岛海域发生7.0级地震。
Earthquake of magnitude 7.0 occurred off the northern islands of Japan.
中国生物：康复者血浆制品投入临床，患者体征症状明显好转。
Chinese Biology: The convalescent patients put the plasma products into clinical practice, the symptom of the patient obviously improved.
中疾控近九千新冠患者分析：老年男性风险大，R0为3.77。
Analysis of nearly 9 000 new crown patients with middle disease: elderly men at high risk, R0 was 3.77.
全国新增新冠肺炎确诊病例5090例，累计63851例。
New cases of pneumonia were diagnosed in 5090 cases with a total of 63,851 cases.
编造“上海出现3000例确诊病例”，男子被行拘10日。
The man was detained for 10 days to fabricate "3000 confirmed cases in Shanghai."
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
马上评丨诉诸情感的钟南山和诉诸专业的钟南山，合起来才完整。
Zhong Nan Shan, who immediately comments into emotion, and Zhong Nan Shan, the professional resort, are integrated.
武汉市中心医院主任蔡毅发文：悼念林军老板，我就这么送你了。
Wuhan City Central Hospital Director Cai Yi Fat Message: mourning Lin Jun boss, I gave you so.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
上海首例！一女子躲轿车后备厢入沪被查，目前已被强制隔离。
Shanghai's first case! A woman in a woman's back-up car into Shanghai has been investigated, has been forcibly isolated.
“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭：一线社区工作者口述。
"Seal the city" in Wuhan on the 20th century Pavilion: first-line community workers oral.
湖北首次将临床诊断病例数纳入新增数据，中央指导组专家详解。
Hubei for the first time the number of clinical diagnosis cases into the new data, the central guidance group of experts detailed understanding.
广州市疾控中心人员倒卖口罩被查处：降级并收缴违规所得。
Guangzhou CDC personnel resell masks were investigated and punished: demotion and seizure of illegal proceeds.
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
国家监委派调查组赴武汉就涉李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
The State Supervision sent an investigation team to Wuhan to make a comprehensive investigation on the matter concerning Dr. Li Wenliang.
武汉天佑医院防护服严重短缺，呼吁捐赠：否则只能用保鲜膜了。
Wuhan Tianyou Hospital protective clothing serious shortage, appeal for donations: otherwise can only use plastic film.
关注疫情防控 | 跟疫情赛跑，充实组织力量势在必行。
Concern with the epidemic has made it imperative to strengthen it in a race against the epidemic.
武汉市人社局对李文亮医生认定工伤：工亡补助金78万余元。
Wuhan Municipal Social Bureau of Dr. Lee Wenliang identified the injury: work-related benefits of more than $780,000.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
马上评丨让我们一起守住这座城。
The commentary keeps the city together.
湖北省卫健委党组书记主任双双被免职，两职务由王贺胜兼任。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary group secretary of the two were dismissed, both posts by Wang He Sheng double-hatted.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
国家监委调查组抵达武汉。
NNSC investigation team arrives in Wuhan.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
联防联控机制新闻发布会丨国家卫健委向李文亮表示深切哀悼。
The JCMB press conference expresses its deep condolences to Li Wenliang.
中央赴湖北指导组：以战时状态全力抓好源头防控。
Central guidance group to Hubei: to the wartime state of full focus on prevention and control at the source.
钟南山谈抗病毒特效药：这个要小心，伦理审查一定要通过。
Zhong Nan Shan talks about antiviral special medicine: This should be careful, the ethical examination must pass.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
