1716名医护人员感染背后的“院感”战时补课 | 深度调查。
The "hospital feeling" behind the infection among 1,716 medical personnel was thoroughly investigated.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/兰子木 韩谦 李佳楠实习记者/周缦卿 龙天音编辑/杨宝璐宋建华院感科在培训医生正确穿戴防护服“院感科”，全名“医院感染管理科”。
Reporter / Lamb Han Qian Li Jia Nan Intern Reporter / Zhou Naomi Lung Yin-yin Editor / Yang Polo Song Jianhua College in training doctors to correctly wear protective clothing "hospital sensorial department," full name "Hospital Infection Management Section.
顾名思义，其主要工作就是对医院感染进行有效预防与控制。
As the name implies, its main work is to hospital infection effective prevention and control.
在此次新冠肺炎疫情攻坚中，如何进行“院感防控”也面临着前所未有的大考。
In this new crown pneumonia attack, how to carry out "hospital sense control" is also facing unprecedented test.
据官方通报，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，包括6人不幸死亡。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, a total of 1,716 cases, including six tragic deaths, had been reported by medical personnel nationwide, according to official reports.
其中湖北省报告了1502例医务人员确诊病例，武汉市1102例，占湖北省医务人员确诊病例的73.4％。
Of these, 1502 cases were confirmed by medical personnel in Hubei Province and 1,102 cases in Wuhan city, accounting for 73.4 per cent of confirmed cases by medical personnel in Hubei Province.
疫情爆发后，一家三甲医院院感科医生透露，现在各地的日常感控工作已经基本“停滞”，在全力应对疫情的同时，正在努力“补课”。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, a three-A hospital sensory doctors revealed that the day-to-day control of the work has basically "stopped," while struggling to cope with the epidemic, is trying to "make up lessons."
在前往武汉的多支医疗救援队中，都设立了专职的院感防控人员，他们告诉北青深一度记者，“不让每一位队员感染，是我们存在的意义。
In Wuhan, a number of medical rescue teams have set up full-time hospital staff, they told the North Qingsheng once reporters, "not every member of the team infected, is our existence significance.
”院内感染最早追溯到一月初医护人员的感染最早可以追溯到一月初。
The nosocomial infection dates back as far back as early January when paramedics became infected.
一份2月3日的内部统计数据显示，华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院（简称同济医院）医护人员确诊感染36人，疑似3人。
Medical staff at Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, confirmed 36 cases and suspected 3 cases, according to a February 3 internal statistic.
多名医生向深一度证实，疫情早期因防范意识不强，1月20日之前，医护人员集中出现被感染的情况，如今很少再有人感染。
Doctors confirmed to the depth that the early stage of the outbreak due to a lack of awareness, before January 20, health-care workers concentrated on the situation, few people are now infected.
截至2月11日，同济医院医护人员确诊感染40余人，属于武汉医院中医护人员感染较少的医院。
As of February 11, hospital staff in Tongji Hospital confirmed the infection of more than 40 people, belonging to Wuhan hospitals with fewer hospital staff infection.
据同济医院急诊科医生陆俊回忆，平时在急诊科看病，医护人员一般是戴普通医用口罩，由于当时知道可能会有不明原因发热的病人，所以提升了一个等级，开始戴N95防护口罩。
According to Dr Lu Jun, an emergency doctor at Tongji Hospital, medical staff usually wear ordinary medical masks during emergency visits. Knowing that there might be patients with unexplained fever at the time, they stepped up one level and started wearing N95 face masks.
但当时医护人员并不清楚病毒会人传人，传感性这么强，防护没有提到最高级别，未穿戴防护服和护目镜。
But health care workers were unaware that the virus was passed from person to person, had such a strong sense of perception, did not mention the highest level, and did not wear protective clothing and goggles.
同济医院外科医生张明也向深一度记者证实，1月初医院职工进行体检时，仅有部分人佩戴口罩。
Zhang Ming, a surgeon at Tongji Hospital, also confirmed to a once-in-a-lifetime reporter that only some people wore masks during a medical examination of hospital staff in early January.
在1月10日或更早一些时候，武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科副主任医师余昌平作为疫情防治专家组成员，在医院内开始会诊疑似不明原因肺炎的发热病人，当时医院内已设立病区专门收治此类病人。
On or before January 10, Yu Changping, deputy director of respiratory medicine at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, as a member of an epidemic prevention and treatment team, began consulting febrile patients suspected of pneumonia of unknown cause within the hospital, where a special ward had been set up to treat such patients.
“这类病人的肺部CT呈现明显的病毒性肺炎症状，多为双肺病变，平时很少见，当时一天就能同时看到五六个。
"The pulmonary CT in these patients showed significant signs of viral pneumonia, mostly bilateral lung lesions, which are rare in normal times and can be seen five or six times a day.
”之后很快也被感染的余昌平告诉记者，此次新冠肺炎的症状在初期容易被忽视，“之前的SARS、禽流感等传染性疾病，普遍会出现发热较高的高烧，还会出现剧烈咳嗽，而我的症状就是发烧，温度也不很高。
Yu Changping, who was also infected soon afterwards, told reporters that the symptoms of the new crown pneumonia were often overlooked in the early stages. "Earlier infectious diseases such as SARS and avian influenza were prone to high fever and coughing, and my symptoms were fever and low temperature.
”余昌平甚至还听同事告诉他，有些医护人员在无明显症状的情况下，肺部CT已呈病毒性肺炎症状，也有些病例仅存在喉咙不适的症状，肺部CT也正常，但核酸检测呈阳性。
Yu even listened to colleagues tell him that some doctors and nurses had developed symptoms of viral pneumonia without obvious symptoms, others had symptoms of throat discomfort only, and lung CT was normal, but nucleic acid tests were positive.
1月14日起，余昌平出现发热症状，高烧38度左右。
January 14, Yu Changping fever symptoms, high fever about 38 degrees.
他当时并未重视，直到17日，在科室聚餐前，为了防止影响同事，才做了肺部CT，结果显示双肺部边缘存在较轻的磨玻璃絮状病变，“我专门搞这个的，一看就知道被感染了。
He didn't take it seriously until the 17th, when CT scans of the lungs were done to prevent interference with colleagues before dinner. The results showed that there was a lighter glasslike flocculation on the edges of the lungs.
”当天，余昌平同另一位科室同事均住院隔离。
On the same day, Yu Changping and another department colleague were hospitalized in isolation.
住院第三天，余昌平开始病情加重，出现胸闷、喘气的症状，1月23日前后病情最为严重，出现呼吸困难，“当时用鼻导管给氧，氧流量开到每分钟5-6升，就只能躺在床上不能动。
On the third day of his stay in hospital, Yu Changping began to get worse. He developed chest tightness and asthma symptoms. He became the most serious breathing problem around January 23.
”直到1月24日后，余昌平呼吸困难的症状才慢慢缓解。
"It was not until January 24 that Yu Changping's breathing difficulties slowly eased.
余昌平认为，新冠肺炎为自限型疾病，“只要挺过和病毒的’拉锯战’时期，就会慢慢好转。
Yu said the disease is self-limiting, "as long as you survive the virus' pull saw 'period, it will gradually improve.
吸氧、药物治疗是为了帮助病人把危险期度过去，维护身体机能的稳定，主要还是看自己的身体素质和恢复能力。
Oxygen suction, drug treatment is to help patients through the dangerous period, maintain the stability of the body function, mainly to see their physical quality and ability to recover.
”但并非所有的医生都拥有这份体质和幸运，2月7日，武汉中心医院眼科医生李文亮去世，年仅34岁；2月10日，同济医院器官移植科林正斌教授也因新冠肺炎救治无效死亡。
But not all doctors have the physique and luck. Wuhan Central Hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang died on February 7 at the age of 34, and Professor Colin Zhengbin, an organ transplant at Tongji Hospital, died on February 10 after receiving treatment for pneumonia.
2月14日，新闻发布会通报了医务人员确诊病例1716例疫情初期被忽略的“人传人”一开始，余昌平就认为这类不明原因肺炎多半存在人传人。
On February 14, a press conference reported 1716 confirmed cases of human-to-human transmission that had been overlooked in the early stages of the outbreak.
在他接诊的患者中，仅有一人在华南海鲜市场工作，其余患者均无接触史，“我们医院在武昌，华南海鲜市场在汉口。
Of the patients he treated, only one worked in the seafood market in southern China, and none of the other patients had any contact history.
当时接诊的病人都是从不同地方来，不存在聚集性，这种情况下多半就是存在人传人。
The patients treated at that time were from different places, and there was no agglomeration. In this case, there was probably human-to-human transmission.
”即便如此，由于当时政府并未发布存在人传人情况，余昌平在接诊时未做充分的防护措施，仅佩戴医用口罩，“当时警惕是警惕，但也没特别重视”。
Even so, since the government did not announce the existence of human-to-human transmission, Yu Changping did not take adequate precautions during the consultation and only wore a medical mask.
而距离华南海鲜市场只有1公里左右距离的武汉中心医院后湖院区，首当其冲地受到了波及。
Wuhan central hospital backlake courtyard area, which is only about a kilometer away from the south China seafood market, was the first to be affected.
后湖院区的医生徐杰告诉深一度记者，“那边（华南海鲜市场）一旦有问题，首先就会送到我们这里，早期就是我们医院收治的肺炎病人比较多。
Xu Jie, a doctor in the Houhu courtyard, told reporters at one time, "Once there is a problem, it will be sent to us in the first place.
”徐杰告诉深一度记者，在中心医院后湖院区也成为发热病人定点医院前，已增加了六七个呼吸内科病区，每个病区约三十多个床位。
Xu told reporters at one point that six or seven respiratory departments, each with more than 30 beds, had been added before the central hospital's back-lake courtyard became a hospital for febrile patients.
徐杰称，当时新增的床位主要是为了收治医院内被感染的医护人员。
Xu said the new beds were mainly for hospital staff infected with the disease.
1月3日，李文亮医生被训诫后，徐杰的科室内部便口头通知，不要谈论关于肺炎的事情。
On January 3, after Dr. Li Wenliang was reprimanded, Xu Jie's department verbally advised not to talk about pneumonia.
由于医院离华南海鲜市场近，当时还有很多人过来询问徐杰具体情况，“我当时还到处忙着’辟谣’，让大家不要惊慌，这个东西还没确认是SARS，需要等官方通告。
As the hospital was close to the seafood market in southern China, many people came to ask Xu Jie about the situation. "I was busy trying to deny rumors.
”徐杰表示，当时他也注意到了呼吸内科就诊人数增加。
Xu said he had also noticed an increase in the number of visits to the respiratory department.
“原来食堂有一扇门是正对着呼吸内科的，那会儿那扇门也封了，我们只能绕道从另一扇门走。
"There was a door in the dining-room that was facing the respiratory department, and then it was closed, so we had to make a detour through another door.
他回忆，大概在1月15日前后，随着病人越来越多，医护人员被通知开始佩戴医用口罩。
Around January 15, he recalls, as the number of patients grew, paramedics were told to start wearing medical masks.
“当时胃肠外科和眼科都合并了，胃肠外科病房腾出来专门收治这类病人。
"Gastrointestinal surgery and ophthalmology were combined and the gastrointestinal surgery ward was set aside to treat these patients," he said.
”徐杰所处科室并不接诊发热病人，但科室里一位主任在2月10日前后出现发热症状，并转院到金银潭医院进行插管治疗。
Xu Jie's department did not take in febrile patients, but a director of the department developed fever around February 10 and was transferred to the hospital for intubation.
此外，还有两名医生也被感染。
In addition, two doctors were also infected.
多名中心医院医生向深一度记者表示，目前中心医院实际确诊或疑似感染新冠肺炎的人数在150人以上。
Central hospital doctors told a reporter that the actual or suspected new crown pneumonia in the central hospital more than 150 people.
而医护人员大规模感染，大多发生在前期很多人不知情之时，或在官方发布存在人传人情况之前。
And the large-scale infection of medical personnel, mostly occurred in the early days of many people do not know the circumstances, or in the official release of the existence of human-to-person situation.
同济医院的外科医生张明告诉深一度，据他了解，最初，因为呼吸、内分泌和ICU科室出现人员感染的情况，医院内部才开始紧张起来。
Zhang Ming, a surgeon at Tongji Hospital, told Shaanxi once that he understood that initially tensions within the hospital began because of human infections in the respiratory, endocrine and ICU departments.
张明介绍，元旦过后，医院内部开始提醒医生做好防护，发现发热病人要重视，很多医生也意识到可能存在传染风险。
Zhang Ming introduced that after the New Year's Day, the hospital began to remind doctors to do a good job of protection, found febrile patients to pay attention, many doctors are aware of the possible risk of infection.
此后，外科医生查房时也开始佩戴口罩，直到1月中旬，才真正重视起来，但佩戴的口罩也并非都是外科口罩。
Surgeons began wearing masks during house searches until mid-January, but not all of them were surgical masks.
在防护不到位的情况下，他认识的外科医护人员中至少有6、7人确诊感染。
At least six or seven of the surgical staff he knew were diagnosed with the infection without protection in place.
那时候，医院处于“内紧外松”的状态，医护人员知道做好防护，但来看病的患者并不知道。
At that time, the hospital was in a state of "internal tightness," and the medical staff knew to be well protected, but the patients who came to see the doctor did not know.
发热病人和其他病人发生聚集，感染面扩大，医护人员在大量接触病人和家属的过程中被传染概率也变大。
Fever patients and other patients gather, the spread of infection, medical personnel in the process of large-scale contact with patients and family members are more likely to be infected.
同济医院呼吸与危重症科主任赵建平则告诉深一度，从1月初到20日之前，同济医院的感染科、急诊科和呼吸科等重点科室防护较好，当时的防护状态和现在相同，达到二级防护标准，因防护较好，感染科、急诊科和呼吸科感染人数都很少，外科、检查科室等其他不存在和该病接触的科室反而感染人数较多。
Zhao Jianping, director of respiratory and critical care department at Tongji Hospital, told Shao that between early January and 20, the infection, emergency and respiration departments of Tongji Hospital were better protected and met the secondary protection standard.
全副武装的医护人员院感防控机制需重视的问题医护人员被感染几率成倍增加的重压之下，院感防控系统需重视的问题，也暴露出来。
Under the heavy pressure of multiple infection rate of medical staff, the problems needing attention in hospital sentinel control system are also exposed.
一月底，一支援鄂医疗队抵达武汉后，前往定点援助医院进行对接。
At the end of January, a support team arrived in Wuhan and went to the designated assistance hospital for docking.
首次见面，双方就在隔离病房的改造上产生了分歧。
When they first met, they disagreed over the renovation of the isolation ward.
“对于呼吸道传染病病房来说，三区两通道是一个最基本的要求。
"Three-zone, two-way access is a basic requirement for respiratory infectious disease wards.
”按照受援助医院的设计，整栋住院部大楼都已被改建成隔离病房，分为污染区、清洁区和缓冲区三个部分。
The entire inpatient building has been converted into an isolation ward, divided into three parts: a contaminated area, a clean area and a buffer zone, according to the design of the assisted hospital.
但按照现有设计，医务人员在脱去防护设备后，还需再次返回污染区，才能离开。
However, under the current design, medical staff will have to return to the contaminated area again after removing protective equipment before they can leave.
这遭到了多名医疗队专家和院感组成员的反对。
This was opposed by several medical team experts and members of the hospital community.
该医疗队院感组沈成介绍，所谓“三区”是指清洁区、缓冲区、污染区独立划分，“两通道”则是指进出隔离病房要从两个单独的通道经过，不能走“回头路”。
The medical team's hospital section, Shen Chengcheng, said the so-called "three areas" refers to the clean area, buffer zone, pollution area independent division, "two-way" refers to access to the isolation ward from two separate passageways, can not take the "road back.
在对接现场，受援助医院的负责人虽然表达了特殊时期改造上的困难，但还是在当晚再次对病房进行了改造。
At the docking site, the director of the assisted hospital, while expressing difficulties with the rehabilitation during the special period, remade the ward that night.
虽然仍然无法达到“两通道”，但通过加装墙体、打通墙壁等办法，最终达到了医务人员脱去防护装备后不用再次返回污染区的要求。
Although the "two-way street" still cannot be reached, the requirement that medical personnel remove their protective equipment and not return to the contaminated area is finally met by installing additional walls and opening walls.
对于这样的现象，作为省会城市三甲医院院感科医生的秦明并不陌生。
For such a phenomenon, as the provincial capital of Sanjia Hospital sensory doctors Qin Ming is no stranger.
秦明告诉记者，除去特殊的传染病医院，多数医院原本并不具备收治传染病病人的条件。
Qin Ming told reporters, except for special hospitals for infectious diseases, most hospitals originally did not have the conditions to accept patients with infectious diseases.
以“三区两通道”的设计，将会大大减少医院收治病房的面积，“但如果没有这样的设计，无疑会增加院内感染的机率。
The design of the three-zone, two-way street will greatly reduce the size of hospital wards, but without such a design, the risk of nosocomial infection will undoubtedly increase.
”驰援武汉的院感科医生沈成表示，他所在的医疗队抵达武汉后，院感组是最先投入工作的部门，压力很大。
Shen Chengcheng, a sensory doctor who rushed to Wuhan, said the hospital was the first department to start work after his medical team arrived in Wuhan.
“不让每一位队员感染，平安的回去，这就是我们存在的意义。
"Do not let each member of the team infect, safe return, this is our existence significance.
”秦明告诉记者，理想状态时，每200到250个病人，就应该配备一名专职的院感人员，工作内容包括每日对临床科室操作的巡查，对病区发热感染状况的监控，以及对出院病人的随访。
"Qin told reporters that ideally, for every 200 to 250 patients, there should be a full-time hospital staff, with daily visits to clinical departments, monitoring of febrile infections in the affected areas, and follow-up with patients leaving the hospital.
“但很多综合医院达不到这样的配置。
"But many general hospitals don't have that kind of configuration.
”在人手匮乏的情况下，这种对医护人员的理想保护状态难以实现。
This ideal level of protection for health-care workers is difficult to achieve in the face of a shortage of staff.
1月底，本来在外科的张明被分配到同济医院本部的发热门诊工作。
At the end of January, Zhang Ming, who was in surgery, was assigned to a fever clinic at Tongji Hospital headquarters.
他告诉记者，发热门诊每日15人分做三班轮流值班，每天接诊1000多例病人；从1月底起，一班安排8个人，每日接诊800左右，他一天要看40个病人；方舱建成后，加上小区实行封闭，如今，接诊人数下降了不少，但每日仍有300人左右。
He told reporters that the fever clinic operates three shifts of 15 people a day and receives more than 1,000 patients a day. Since the end of January, there have been eight daily visits of about 800 patients and 40 patients per day.
徐杰则被调至南京路院区急诊外科坐诊。
Xu Jie was transferred to Nanjing Road Hospital emergency surgery.
负责给外科诊断病人进行预检，也有一些发热病人，需要进行体温检测、拍肺部CT。
Responsible for the prescreening of surgical diagnosis patients, but also a number of fever patients, the need for a temperature test, lung CT.
“南京路院区的外科医生有些已被感染，有些可能职业暴露了还在隔离，目前人手不够，像整形科、妇产科、眼科、皮肤科的医护人员都在往前顶。
"Some of the surgeons in the Nanjing Road compound have been infected, some may have been exposed to segregation and are currently understaffed. Medical staff in plastic surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, ophthalmology and dermatology are on the way ahead.
”原则上，若有医护人员被感染，与他有过接触的人员都需要隔离观察。
In principle, if a medical worker is infected, those who come into contact with him need to be watched in isolation.
但徐杰表示，目前条件并不允许，“如果按这个标准隔离，医院都得停摆，没人干活了。
But Xu said the current conditions do not allow, "if this standard isolation, the hospital will have to stop, no one to work.
”部分医院发布的物资求助信息疫情突袭下的防护物资紧张深一度通过数位在武汉抗击新冠肺炎一线的医生了解到，目前，各家的防护物资仍在较为紧张的状态。
"Some hospitals have released information on aid supplies under the outbreak The strain of protection was once felt by several doctors fighting the new crown pneumonia in Wuhan, where emergency supplies are still under stress.
武汉大学人民医院一位负责物资捐赠的工作人员告诉深一度，医院的防护口罩、防护服等一次性防护用品紧缺，在政府配送、社会捐赠和出资购买的情况下，能保证一线发热门诊和病房的医护人员的防护需求，但所存物资一直仅够维持两三天的用量。
At one point, a staff member of Wuhan University People's Hospital in charge of material donation told deep that hospitals were short of disposable protective masks and protective clothing, which could meet the protection needs of the medical staff in the first-line fever clinic and ward under the condition of government distribution, social donation and funded purchase.
徐杰则称，目前防护物资的质量“每天都不一样”。
Xu said the current quality of protective materials "every day is different."
“防护服有些可能是二级标准的，有些则是工业标准的；有西班牙文的、德文的、还有没商标的。
"Some of the suits may be of secondary standard, others of industry standard; some of them are in Spanish, German and unbranded.
根本不知道是哪里产的，给什么就穿什么，没得挑。
You don't know where it's coming from, or what you're wearing, not picking it out.
我们这还是急诊科，是优先保障的，其他科室的情况就更可想而知了。
We are still emergency department, is a priority protection, the situation in other departments can be more predictable.
”人民医院疼痛科主任蔡毅目前在后湖院区负责一个病区患者治疗。
Cai Yi, director of the pain department at the People's Hospital, is in charge of treating patients in a sick area.
他表示，由于防护服紧缺，目前已经开始控制查房时进入污染区的医护人员数量，“只能是我们呆在里面的时间长一点，减少防护服的消耗。
Because of the shortage of protective clothing, he said, the number of staff entering the contaminated area during house searches had begun to be controlled.
”秦明告诉记者，对于医用N95口罩、面屏、防护服等高级别防护用品的储存，资金成了一个绕不过去的难题。
"Qin told reporters that funding for the storage of high-level protective equipment such as N95 masks, face screens and protective clothing has become a thorny issue.
部分地区的卫健委会给予医院专项资金来购置防护设备，但各地政策不一，“如果没有这笔钱，储备量会更少。
Some district health committees have earmarked funds for hospitals to buy protective equipment, but policies vary from place to place: "Without the money, stocks would be smaller.
”秦明所在的城市，前两年曾下拨过一笔20万左右的专项资金，他们用这笔钱的一部分，买了三千只医用N95口罩。
Qin Ming's city, which had earmarked about 200,000 yuan for the previous two years, used part of the money to buy 3,000 medical N95 masks.
疫情爆发后，秦明曾清点过自己医院的防护用品库存，“如果同样是比较严重的情况，紧紧巴巴能用一个月吧。
After the outbreak, Qin Ming counted his own hospital stocks of protective equipment, "if the same serious situation, tight can be used for a month.
”他希望的是，未来防护用品上的花销可以由有财政支持的疾控部门负责，又或是与器材供应商达成一致，形成一种“轮转”的机制，“比如我储备了2万个N95口罩，快过期的时候，可以转移到需求量更大的传染病医院去。
What he wants is for future spending on protective equipment to be covered by a fiscally backed disease-control department or by agreement with equipment suppliers to form a "round-the-clock" mechanism. "For example, I have a stockpile of 20,000 N95 masks that, when they expire, can be moved to a more needy infectious-diseases hospital.
”医生两人一组练习穿戴防护服呼吁建立统一的规范流程秦明形容，现在各地的日常感控工作已基本“停滞”，在全力应对疫情的同时，也正在努力“补课”。
"Practice wearing protective clothing in pairs." Qin Ming described how day-to-day controls around the country have "ground to a halt" and are struggling to "make up for lost classes" while struggling to cope with the epidemic.
正式进入一线后，沈成所在的医疗队要求，所有人必须把同伴当作潜在的“疑似病例”。
When Shen entered the front line, Shen's medical team demanded that everyone treat their companions as potential "suspected cases."
隔离病房内，潜在的风险不止来自于病房的布局。
In the isolation ward, the potential risks come from more than the layout of the ward.
所有操作方式都是天翻地覆的，从病人交流时的方向角度，到输液操作时的姿势，感控渗透在每一个细节。
All modes of operation are earth-shaking, from the point of view of the patient's communication, to the position of the infusion operation, sensing penetration in every detail.
沈成和其他院感组成员每天还要检测所有队员的体温，分早中晚三次前往病区，监督所有人的操作流程。
Shen and his fellow residents also checked the body temperature of all the team members every day. They visited the area three times in the morning and at night to supervise the operation process.
他们曾发现，有护士在为病人打针后，习惯性地脱去了最外层的防护手套。
They found that a nurse habitually removed the outermost protective gloves after giving the patient an injection.
在武汉，一支援助医疗队即将给本地医务人员培训防护服的穿脱操作，为了让所有人重视，演示者在一开始就说：“这是咱们保命的东西。
In Wuhan, an aid medical team is about to train local medical staff to wear protective clothing. To impress everyone, the presenter said at the outset: "This is what we're saving our lives for.
”但培训开始后，演示者很快因为穿戴帽子和口罩的顺序与院感组成员出现了分歧。
But soon after the training began, the presenter disagreed with the group because of the order in which the hats and masks were worn.
“你去每个医疗队看，可能穿脱防护服的顺序能有几十个不同的版本。
"You go to every medical team and probably wear protective clothing in dozens of different versions.
”秦明解释，这次疫情爆发后，很多专家建议先戴口罩再戴帽子，但在实际操作中，一些女性医务人员头发长，先戴口罩有导致滑落的风险。
Qin explained that after the outbreak, many experts suggested wearing masks and hats first, but in practice some female medical workers have long hair and risk slipping off first.
同样存在分歧的，还有摘下口罩的方式。
Also divisive is the manner in which the masks are removed.
目前普遍的操作方法，是在摘口罩时避免双手的触碰，但秦明前往医疗公司培训时，对方明确建议，一只手扶住口罩，“一些人操作不熟练的话，可能导致口罩的回弹，危险更大。
The common method of operation is to avoid touching a mask while taking it off. However, when Qin Ming went to the medical company for training, the other side clearly advised him to put one hand on the mask.
”“相比临床操作上的统一规范，在院感防护方面，从卫健委到医管局再到医院，各种要求并不统一。
"Compared with the unified standard for clinical practice, the requirements for hospital protection are not uniform, from the WHB to HA to the hospital.
”秦明觉得，细节上的分歧，恰恰反应出了这方面亟待提高。
Mr Qin felt that the differences over the details reflected the urgent need for improvement.
防护装备的品牌不同，操作方式也不一样，他曾想联合专家制定一个统一的规范流程，“但这个工作真的太难了。
He wanted to work with experts to develop a unified regulatory process. "But it's really too difficult.
”在机制背后，人的因素更加明显。
Behind the mechanisms, the human factor is even more obvious.
秦明表示，相比防护知识和操作，更大的难度在于意识的提高，“特别是一些老的医务工作者，可能因为经历的多了，反而会麻痹大意。
Qin said it was more difficult to raise awareness than to protect knowledge and operations, "especially some old medical workers, who may have experienced more than they would have been otherwise."
”在秦明看来，国内院感部门大规模成立1990年到1995期间，“那时一些地方都是年纪大了、上不了夜班的医护人员去院感科，成了一个养老的部门。
According to Qin Ming, the domestic sensory departments were set up on a large scale from 1990 to 1995, when "some places were full of elderly medical workers who could not work at night, going to the hospital for medical staff and becoming a retirement department."
”即使在现在，院感人才的储备也并不理想。
Even now, the supply of institutional talent is not ideal.
秦明说，在医疗职称体系中，院感人员没有单独的序列，晋升空间不大，这也导致很多人不愿意学习相关专业。
Qin Ming said that in the medical title system, hospital staff do not have a separate sequence, there is little room for promotion, which also led to many people unwilling to study related subjects.
秦明所学的就是公共卫生专业，借鉴国外相关领域的经验，他认为疾控体系最先需要提升的是人员上的短板，如果一些有过临床经验的人进入预防领域，专业能力的提高势必会带来院感防控的高效。
Qin Ming learned the public health specialty, learning from foreign experience in related fields, he believes that the disease control system needs to upgrade the first staff, if some people with clinical experience into the field of prevention, professional improvement will inevitably bring about efficient institutional control.
在突然爆发的疫情之下，医疗人员队伍似乎很难做到毫发无伤。
In the midst of a sudden outbreak, it seems difficult for the medical team to survive a single injury.
秦明说，几乎每次重大的传染病都会对感染控制和疾病预防起到巨大的推进，“但是，希望不要每次的代价都如此巨大。
Virtually every major infectious disease can be a huge boost to infection control and disease prevention, Qin said. "But hopefully not at such a high cost every time.
”（除余昌平、陆俊、蔡毅外，其他采访对象均为化名）【反侵权公告】本文由北京青年报与今日头条联合出品，未经授权，不得转载。
(Except Yu Changping, Lu Jun and Cai Yi-yu, all the other interviewees are aliases) [Anti-Tort Announcement] This article is jointly produced by Beijing Youth Daily and today's headlines.
送别李文亮医生：愿天堂没有病毒|深度报道鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道一个武汉红十字会志愿者的自述| 深度报道。
Farewell to Dr. Liang: May there be no virus or depth coverage of E E's 30-hour return to China. In-depth coverage by a Wuhan Red Cross volunteer at its service.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1716名医护人员感染背后的“院感”战时补课 | 深度调查。
The "hospital feeling" behind the infection among 1,716 medical personnel was thoroughly investigated.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "北青深一度";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
var msg_title = "1716名医护人员感染背后的“院感”战时补课 | 深度调查";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“不让每一位队员感染，是我们存在的意义”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '送别李文亮医生：愿天堂不再有病毒 | 深度报道',。
Dr. Li Wenliang: May heaven never again have AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一个武汉红十字会志愿者的自述 | 深度报道',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="北青深一度";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
