武汉封城第20天，瑞幸员工“黑掉”自家设备。
Wuhan sealing day 20, Ruihin employees "black out" their own equipment.
白西。
Bessie.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
困难面前，自黑自救5天内，4个瑞幸咖啡员工要把一台无人咖啡机运进武汉六七二医院。
In the face of difficulties, self-help from the dark within five days, four Ruixing coffee workers to transport a coffee machine into Wuhan 672Hospital.
运送对于封城后的武汉来说，困难重重。
Transportation is difficult for Wuhan after the closure of the city.
小区封锁、物资受阻、通行困难……要在没车、没人的情况下，把一台超过400斤的大家伙运进医院，还要找齐原材料，让医生们喝上免费的热咖啡无疑是一个挑战。
Blockade, obstruction of supplies, difficulty of access... It's a challenge to get a big guy over 400 kilos into the hospital without a car and no one, and to find the raw materials to make your doctors drink hot coffee for free.
这是一个4个人和3万人的“战疫故事”，而这样的故事，将继续在武汉与全国的医院上演。
This is an "epidemic story" of four people and 30,000 people, and such stories will continue to be told in Wuhan and hospitals across the country.
居家隔离17天后，突如其来的复工2月8日，距离武汉封城已经过去17天，瑞幸咖啡武汉分公司的咖啡机维修师小陈，突然被拉进一个微信工作群。
Home isolation 17 days later, the sudden resumption of work February 8, Wuhan has been closed 17 days, Ruixing coffee machine maintenance division Xiao Chen, was suddenly pulled into a micro-letter group.
群里一共29人，有各部门的负责人，还有CEO钱治亚。
There were 29 people in the group, including heads of departments and CEOs Qian Zhiya.
里面立刻复工的消息让小陈“噌”一下从床上坐了起来。
The news that he immediately got back to work caused little Chen to sit up out of bed.
和他一起开工的，还有管物流的小毛、管IT的小刘，以及管运营的老吕。
With him to start, there is the logistics of Xiao Mao, the small IT Liu, as well as the management of the old Lu.
5天之内，把一台调试为“免费模式”的无人咖啡机运进武汉六七二医院是他们接到的任务。
Within five days, they were given the task of bringing an unmanned coffee machine, which had been debugged as "free," into Wuhan's 672 hospital.
而此时的武汉，断物流、断原料，各小区全面封闭，除了全国各地的3万瑞幸员工，他们“再无近军可援”。
Wuhan at this time, cut off logistics, cut off raw materials, all the residential areas are closed, in addition to the 30, 000 staff across the country, they "no longer have close military assistance."
而在五天前的早晨，钱治亚和各流程关键领导层成立了一只“特别行动组”。
Five days ago this morning, Mr Qian and key process leaders formed a "task force."
继企业为抗击新冠肺炎捐出一千万后，寻找“更直接”的方式再做点什么是他们一直在思考的事情。
Looking for "more direct" ways to do more is something they've been thinking about since companies donated 10 million dollars to fight pneumonia.
在接到六七二医院请求后，他们很快发现，需要一杯热咖啡的医院不止这一家，而相比门店外送，和门店一样的出品标准，全过程无人工参与、无接触、更安全，铺设速度快、效率高的无人咖啡机更适合“战疫”。
After receiving a request from 672s hospital, they soon found that the hospital needed a cup of hot coffee not just this one, but more so than the store-to-store delivery standard, with no manual intervention, no contact, no safety, and a fast, efficient, no-one coffee machine.
最重要的是，它们能24小时工作，确保给每位需要“来一杯续命”的医生护士供上热咖啡。
Most importantly, they work 24 hours a day, making sure they serve hot coffee to every doctor and nurse who needs a refill.
阻碍重重，“自救”行动上演全员居家办公的团队飞速运转起来，然而大家很快发现：困难面前，人人平等。
Obstacles abound, and the "self-help" group operating from home is running at a breakneck speed, but it soon becomes clear that everyone is equal in the face of difficulties.
武汉作为首批投放城市，年前已有一台瑞幸无人咖啡机投入运营，可物流停运，超过400公斤的设备寸步难移。
Wuhan, one of the first cities to be launched, started operation a few years ago, but logistics outage, more than 400 kg of equipment can not move.
雪上加霜的是，桶装水供应商响应号召停业抗疫，无人咖啡机的杯子、杯盖又是为满足机器压盖特制的，全武汉仅余1000套，而4个身在武汉的同事服从防疫管理被困小区，唯一接受过无人咖啡机调试培训的工程师被隔离在了千里之外……在总部的协调下，情况出现了转机，一套“救援”行动有条不紊地展开。
To add insult to injury, the bucket of water suppliers responded to the call for closure of the epidemic, the coffee maker cup, cup cover is to meet the machine cover, Wuhan only 1000 units, while four colleagues in Wuhan, the only engineers trained in unmanned coffee machine debugging were isolated thousands of miles away.
农夫山泉总公司打开武汉总仓库，供他们取水；负责武汉原材料转运的荣庆物流，协调保供货车帮忙“全城提货”；顺丰以运送特殊物资的方式，从上海仓寄来了杯子、杯盖；工程师小陈从8日开始上起了“网课”，夜以继日地熟悉材料和调试流程；远在北京的IT团队在两天之内赶工出一套“特别版”免费系统，并在4小时内完成了原本需时一周的调试；医院给四个武汉员工开了证明，他们终于出了小区……“挂了啊挂了！都关在家里还能去哪？正开黑呢！”刚出家门，瞒着家里复工的IT工程师小刘接到了家人的电话，平复心情后他还是选择继续“说谎”。
Wu Fu Shan Quan head office opened Wuhan general warehouse for them to collect water; in charge of Wuhan raw material transfer Rongqing logistics, co-ordinated delivery trucks to help "take delivery of goods from the city"; Shunfeng on the way back to work in four hours from the home of the IT engineer, Liu Jiaotou,
这时，小毛正要开着全公司唯一没限行的那台车，把所有人送到无人咖啡机所在的写字楼。
At the moment, Mao was driving the company's only open-ended car and taking everyone to the office where the coffee machine was located.
此时是2月11日。
This is 11 February.
还来不及顾及家人的情绪，关卡又出现了。
Before the mood of the family could be taken into account, the level appeared again.
出于安全考虑，瑞幸所有无人零售终端都上了锁，拥有电子认证的同事被隔离在了武汉城外。
For safety reasons, all of the unattended retail terminals have been locked and electronically certified colleagues isolated outside Wuhan.
时间宝贵，小刘和总公司IT智囊团联合设备供应商，直接“黑掉了”自家设备。
Time is precious, Xiao Liu He head office IT think tank joint equipment supplier, directly "hacked" their own equipment.
“咖啡可以喝了？给我搞一杯！”当天下午两点，无人咖啡机终于出现在六七二医院门口。
"Coffee is ready to drink? Get me a cup!" At 2 pm that day, the unattended coffee machine finally appeared in front of the 672 hospital.
为了确保安全，坚持“无接触配送”的医院有近二十名医生护士一声不吭地赶来帮忙，让行动四人组感到一丝暖心。
To ensure safety, nearly 20 doctors and nurses at the "no-contact" hospital came forward without a word to help keep the Quad warm.
老吕在运输车旁边站了很长时间，他心中的那口气还松不下来。
Old Lu stood by the van for a long time, but the tone in his heart was still not relaxed.
“哥！又有问题啊！”他担心的事情出现了。
"Brother! There's a problem again!" He worried about the matter appeared.
无人咖啡机使用高比例进口设备，对供电要求苛刻，需要两条独立的供电线支持运转，而医院里只有接线板。
Unmanned coffee machines use a high proportion of imported equipment, impose demanding electricity requirements and require two separate power lines to support their operation, whereas hospitals have only terminals.
但连续近十天的“野路子”操作，让行动组对如何解决“在五金店全关的武汉买电线”驾轻就熟。
But nearly 10 days of "wild road" operation, let the action team on how to solve the "hardware shop in Wuhan to buy all the wire."
“换了两台车，开了两个别公司的仓库，最后，还‘黑了’自家的咖啡机。
"I changed two cars, opened two separate warehouses and finally 'black' my own coffee machine.
”第二天一早，老吕开着从神州调来的未限行车辆，跑到瑞幸门店装修供应商的仓库，直接开仓取货。
Early the next morning, Lu drove an unlimited number of vehicles from Shenzhou to the store to refurbish the supplier's warehouse and open the warehouse directly to pick up the goods.
晚上八点，第一杯“武汉医院版”加浓焦糖美式在672医院正式出炉。
At 8 p. m., the first cup of Wuhan Hospital Edition was officially opened in 672 hospital.
“咖啡可以喝了？给我搞一杯！”夜里，老吕给小毛发了个医院微信群的截图，小毛捧着手机，睡了个难得的好觉。
"The coffee is ready to drink? Get me a cup!" At night, old Lu gave small hair a hospital micro-mail group of screenshots, Xiao Mao holding a cell phone, sleep a rare good night.
战“疫”面前，这杯免费然而，装机只是开端。
In the face of the plague, however, this free cup is only the beginning.
672医院完成入驻后，武汉协和、科技大学天佑医院等十多家医院也立刻需要装机和使用。
After the completion of 672 hospitals, Wuhan Concorde University, Tian You Hospital and more than a dozen hospitals immediately need to be installed and used.
基于防疫安全管理，瑞幸工作人员无法进入医院进行填料和维护，虽然给每家医院都一次性配置了足量的咖啡豆、饮水、杯子和糖浆，但没有持续维护，一切努力都将白费。
Due to the safety management of epidemic prevention, the staff were unable to enter the hospital for packing and maintenance, and although every hospital was provided with a sufficient quantity of coffee beans, drinking water, cups and syrup on a one-time basis, all efforts would have been in vain.
为此，负责员工培训的瑞幸大学部门“临时招收学员”，为医院工作人员开发了工程师专属的培训通道，远程速成设备维护、装料与消杀流程，还安排了工程师、运营和院方的“二对一”支援小组：设备有维护、填料、清洁任务时，机器会自动提醒，支援小组通过咖啡机摄像头协助作业。
To this end, the "Temporary Admission Trainee" department, which is responsible for staff training, has developed an engineer-specific training channel for hospital staff to maintain, load and eliminate long-range and fast-moving equipment.
与此同时，为了保证优先武汉医院对咖啡的需求，分散在全国的无人咖啡机，也开始向武汉“紧急集合”，连同所有原材料一起整车向武汉发货，海内外供应商也开始加速生产，从瑞士向国内空运咖啡机设备，为医护人员加油。
Meanwhile, in order to ensure the priority Wuhan hospital demand for coffee, scattered throughout the country's coffee machine, also began to Wuhan "emergency assembly," together with all the raw materials to Wuhan, and domestic and foreign suppliers began to accelerate production, from Switzerland to the domestic airlift coffee machine equipment, refuelling medical personnel.
同一天，瑞幸宣布向全国三甲医院开放无人终端，并承诺疫情完全结束前，为医护人员免费提供咖啡。
On the same day, Ruixin announced the opening of an unmanned terminal at Sanja Hospital nationwide and promised to provide free coffee for medical staff until the outbreak is completely over.
“这是我们民族企业该有的温度，挺好的，接着干！”说到这里，好几天没怎么睡的老吕突然来了精神。
"This is our national enterprise should have the temperature, quite good, go on!" Said here, for several days did not sleep old Lu suddenly came spirit.
打过硬仗之后，他们相信坚持下去，总会遇见春天。
After a hard fight, they believe that they will stick to it and meet spring.
本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场。
This article only represents the author's point of view, does not represent this print position.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉封城第20天，瑞幸员工“黑掉”自家设备。
Wuhan sealing day 20, Ruihin employees "black out" their own equipment.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉封城第20天，瑞幸员工“黑掉”自家设备";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "困难面前，自黑自救​";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from black self-help.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
