疫期特别篇（胡乱督查滋生形式主义）。
Special Epidemic Period (random surveillance breeds formalism).
孟北鱼。
Mengbei fish.
基层实录                      。
Grass-roots record.
基层实录。
Grass-roots record.
一个不合时宜的愤青的思考和尝试。
An anachronistic thought and attempt.
。
.
内容违规会影响你的知乎盐值。
Content violations can affect your perceived salinity.
最近 30 天违规次数为 4，与上个周期相比有所减少。
The number of violations in the last 30 days was 4, a decrease from the previous cycle.
查看盐值解读​文章查看备份疫期特别篇（胡乱问责滋生形式主义）状态建议修改处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-02-15 14:11违规编号258496356我要申诉我要反馈文章查看备份疫期特别篇（压力与歧视）状态建议修改处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-02-10 22:15违规编号254736423我要申诉文章查看备份疫期特别篇（疫期市纪委检查）状态建议修改处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-02-09 16:06违规编号251788937我要申诉文章查看备份杂谈（口罩下的形式主义与基层减负）状态建议修改处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-29 08:25违规编号245003722我要申诉想法查看备份既然要拉黑和禁止评论，这么不自信，那你…状态删除·申诉成功处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-13 14:57违规编号229178855我要申诉回答查看备份为什么大部分老百姓不相信村镇一级的干部会为百姓干好事？状态建议修改处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-09 19:32违规编号229546386我要申诉回答查看备份如何看待国人对小费文化的不理解?状态折叠处理原因不符合问题的限定范围​处理时间2020-01-05 17:55违规编号229546253我要申诉文章查看备份基层之困（人间喜剧）状态建议修改·申诉驳回处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-09 04:19违规编号226243744我要申诉我要反馈文章查看备份杂谈（再苦再累，不能怨恨社会）状态建议修改·申诉驳回处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-09 04:20违规编号228376827我要申诉我要反馈评论查看备份在文章「基层之困（死灰复燃）」下的评论状态删除处理原因违反知乎社区管理规定​处理时间2020-01-02 15:18违规编号227164595我要申诉我要反馈备份详情——《疫期特别篇》：胡乱问责滋生形式主义——这是一篇注定要要被封的文章，因为公众号/专栏的定位，决定了我从来写不出来什么广为流传的文章，它们总是在爆火之初就被公众号和知乎删个干净，所以如果这篇文章被删了，我丝毫不会感到意外。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 230 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 39 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ # 39 ^ # 230 ^ mdash] disobeying community management rules administrative time 2020-02-09 16: 15 Irregularities 2020-02-09 22: 15 Irregularities 202002-09 22: 15 Default Code
毕竟这篇文章的标题是如此的“出格”，有些部门的权威是冒犯不得的，他们永远不会承认自己错了。
After all, the title of the article is so "out of line" that some authorities are offended and will never admit that they are wrong.
2018年4月，湖南津市《市纪委突击检查教育局办公用房》的信息截图在微信朋友圈转发引热议。
April 2018, Tianjin, Hunan City, "Commando Inspection Bureau of Education Office Housing" information screenings in the micro-letter circle forwarded heat discussion.
图片显示，教育局局长办公室抽屉里有散文、小说等与工作无关的书籍，发现几个学校办公室有大量零食瓜子、咖啡、饼干等，发现教师办公室有盆栽，市纪委将此类情况作为典型违纪案例进行通报。
Several school offices were found to have plenty of snacks and melons, coffee, biscuits, etc., and potted plants were found in the teachers' offices, which were reported as typical disciplinary cases.
2016年，山西省长治市屯留县一中高二年级组24名教师，在放假后到酒店AA制聚餐且饮酒，花费1390元，也就是人均16.25元，被中共屯留县纪律检查委员会全县通报批评，并在当地一报纸上刊登。
In 2016, 24 senior middle school teachers from Tunliu County, Changzhi Province, paid 1390 yuan (US $16.25 per capita) to go to the hotel to have an Dutch party after vacation.
上述两个事件在网上迅速引爆，引起热议，甚至引起了人民日报、央视等官媒的关注，最后以两地纪委已公开道歉结束，两地纪委认真反思自己的工作作风，但未有任何一人受到处理，哪怕警告处分。
The two incidents sparked heated debate on the Internet and even drew the attention of officials such as People's Daily and CCTV, which concluded with a public apology. The disciplinary committees of the two places seriously reflected on their work style, but none of them was dealt with, even with a warning.
什么叫“宽以律己，严以待人”呢？几天前，三江市区的一名工作人员因为走访入户时把一名被排查人员的身份证号码其中两位数写颠倒了，导致该人员的出生日期发生了错误，受到了立案调查，当地街道办事处作全县检讨。
A few days ago, a staff member in downtown Sanjiang reversed the double-digit number of the identity card of an inspector as he visited his home, causing the date of birth of the person concerned to be wrongly investigated and the local neighbourhood office to conduct a county-wide review.
我不知道被排查人员的身份证号码被颠倒了，导致出生日期有误，会造成多么重大的严重后果，也许只有纪委的那群人知道。
I do not know what serious consequences, if any, would result from the incorrect date of birth of the person whose identity card number has been inverted, and perhaps only the disciplinary committee.
我只知道，一名街道办事处人员每天要走访几百户居民，填写几千个信息，从早到晚奔波不停，你要我保证在这样的情况下，不把任何一人的18位身份证号码写错一个数字，我办不到，但我相信纪委的同志们一定能办到！至少他们觉得自己能办到，那么如果是这样，为什么不让每个人发挥专长呢？世间事能者居之，让纪委的同志们来一线从早到晚工作十几个小时走访几百户人，一定能保证一个信息也不产生错误，毕竟他们应该不会给自己警告处分。
You want me to make sure that if I don't miswrite 18-digit numbers on anyone's 18-digit ID card, I can't do it! At least they think they can do it, and if so, why not let everyone use their expertise?
我常说一句话，人是被教会的。
I always say that people are taught.
为什么老人碰瓷的事情屡禁不止，因为老人早就明白，自己碰瓷不违法，碰瓷成功一次就赚几千乃至几万，碰瓷失败一次不过也就被警察叔叔教育教育就放了。
Why the old people touch porcelain things repeatedly, because the elderly have long understood that their own porcelain do not break the law, porcelain success on a few thousand or tens of thousands of dollars, failed to touch porcelain only once by the police uncle's education and education released.
同理，各地纪委也明白一件事，督查过分了不过就是自我检讨反思一下，督查不过分的话，万一出了什么问题以后牵连自己怎么办？所以某些纪委总是倾向于“宁杀错不放过”的胡乱督查。
For the same reason, disciplinary committees around the world know that over-monitoring is nothing more than self-examination and self-examination, if not too much scrutiny, and what they should do if something goes wrong, so some disciplinary committees tend to "rather kill than miss."
胡乱督查和形式主义就像是相互依存的双胞胎，胡乱督查导致基层形式主义不绝，形式主义促进胡乱督查，而无论是形式主义，还是胡乱督查，都在深层次上体现现时的官僚系统中存在大量无能官僚，胡乱督查和形式主义对解决问题毫无帮助，反而对目前的“抗疫”工作是反作用的，这一点“新华每日电讯”已多次明确提出。
As interdependent twins, indiscriminate surveillance leads to grass-roots formalism, formalism promotes random scrutiny, which, whether formalism or random supervision, reflects the existence of a large number of incompetent bureaucrats in the current bureaucracy. Misdirection and formalism are counterproductive to the current "anti-epidemic" efforts, as the Xinhua Daily Telegraph has repeatedly stated.
胡乱督查挤占基层干部时间，打击工作信心，形式主义让基层干部在虚无的工作上疲于奔命，无论是胡乱督查还是形式主义本质上都是为了解决责任问题，纪委表示自己干了很多工作，官僚表示自己做了很多事情，但这些事情到底对实际“抗疫”工作有没有帮助呢，我猜连制定者自己都心知肚明。
The committee said it had done a lot of work, and the bureaucrats said they had done a lot of things, but whether they had helped the actual "fight against plague," I guess even the framers themselves knew.
但他们更心知肚明的是，自己必须这么做，人与人之间的悲欢并不想通，他们对自己“帽子”的担忧胜过疫情。
But they are more aware of the need to do so, do not want to pass between people happy, they are more worried about their "hat" than the epidemic.
为什么我在今天要忽然说道这个呢？因为今天，在人民日报、新华社、半月谈等官媒多次痛斥“抗疫”中的形式主义以后，“表格抗疫”还是有增无减，是因为山高皇帝远吗？是因为胆大包天吗？是因为政治觉悟差吗？都不是，是官僚的自我利益需要。
Why should I suddenly say this today? Because today, after the people's daily, Xinhua News Agency, and the official media repeatedly denounced the formalism of "anti-epidemic," the "form of anti-epidemic" is still increasing, is it because the emperor is far away? Is it because of poor political consciousness? Neither is it the self-interest of bureaucrats.
今天县政府下达了一份文件，一份短短的文件，附10个表格作为附件，这10个表格都是新发明出来的。
Today the county administration sent out a document, a short document, with 10 forms attached as annexes, all of which were newly invented.
那发明出来做什么呢？如果大家看过我前几篇文章，大家应该还记得前段时间县委书记甘茂曾要求全县基层干部在一天之类走访、调查、记录、上报全县几十万人口的情况，我说过，这个事情是根本办不到的，你可以想象一下全县在一天内做完人口普查的工作量，就知道这个决定合不合理了。
If you have read my previous articles, you will recall that some time ago, Party Secretary Ganmao asked county-level officials to visit, investigate, record and report on the situation of hundreds of thousands of people in the county.
不过县级干部是在云层上面办公的，他们根本不用在意自己的指令是否符合实际，他们相信“重罚之下必有勇夫”，所以当把纪委抬出来要挟各乡镇政府之后，各乡镇最后都按时“完成”了走访任务。
But county-level officials, who work above clouds, do not care if their orders are realistic. They believe that "there must be brave men under severe penalties," so when the disciplinary committee is taken out to blackmail township governments, the townships have finally "completed" their visits on time.
如果你还记得我之前写的文章，你就会知道，以鸟语花镇为例，“完成”是“完成”了，但怎么“完成”的就值得商榷了，毕竟重罚之下，没有乡镇敢说自己没有完成。
If you remember my previous articles, you will know that, for example, "complete" is "finished", but how to "complete" is questionable, after all, under heavy penalty, no township dares to say that they have not completed.
我只敢说，我们上报的表格，做到了80%的准确吧，毕竟还有慌乱之下遗漏的，和一些瞎编的数据。
All I can say is that the form we submitted was 80% accurate, after all there was something missing from the panic, and some false data.
如果大家一直在看“疫期特别篇”，读者们还会知道一个道理，如果乡镇发现了漏报、漏查人员，是不敢往县上报的，一旦上报，就代表本乡镇有人要受到纪委处理了。
If people have been watching the "epidemic period special", readers will also know that if the township found missing, missing staff, is afraid to report to the county, once reported, on behalf of the township people will be dealt with by the disciplinary committee.
所以，在上述原因之下，可以说县级单位亲手蒙住了自己的耳朵和眼睛，直到半个月以后，他们渐渐发现之前采集的数据信息，很多都是错误的，完全无法使用。
Therefore, under the above-mentioned reasons, it can be said that the county-level units personally covered their ears and eyes, until half a month later, they gradually found that the data collected before, many are wrong, completely unusable.
但是这个问题是共性的，我不得不说，即使在所有乡镇出现共性的问题时，县级部门依然不会认为是自己当初的要求就是反人类的，他们依然觉得是乡镇基层的责任心问题，无法抓住问题的根本也是能力差的一种表现，无法抓住问题的根本也决定了，他们再次的决定同样将是错误的，他们所得到的结果也将是错误的。
But the problem is common, and I have to say that even when there are common problems in all townships, the county departments will still not consider their original request as anti-human. They still feel the responsibility of the township grass-roots level, unable to grasp the root of the problem is also a poor performance, their decision again will be wrong, their results will be wrong.
他们发了一个文件，发明了10个新的表格，然后要求各乡镇在两天内采集完成全县所有人员的数据，为了不出现上次同样的问题，他们把要求定得很高，把后果说得很严重，整个会议上“纪委”和“处分”被提到了二十多次。
They sent out a document, invented 10 new forms, and then asked the townships to collect data on all the people in the county within two days. In order not to have the same problem again, they set high standards and described the consequences seriously.
提供给大家的时间依然不够，大家发现漏报以后依然害怕纪委处理而不敢提出来，他们永远无法知道为什么自己给了基层那么多次机会，基层就是给不了自己想要的结果。
There is still not enough time available to us, we find that we are still afraid to raise the issue after underreporting, they will never know why they have given so many opportunities to the grass-roots level, which simply cannot give them the results they want.
这个任务是完不成的，李念刚副镇长对我说：“北鱼，这个工作是完不成的，大家下去以后只能说尽量完成吧！所以最后数据的逻辑很重要，还有就是，不要和以前的数据完全一致，完全一致说明我们没有再次走访；也不要和以前的数据差距太大，差距太大，县纪委可能会因此说我们前期工作作风有问题，找我们的茬。
This task is impossible, Vice Mayor Li Niangang said to me: "North fish, this work can not be finished, we can only say that the final data is very important, and the final data is not completely consistent with the previous data, we did not visit again; and not too big, too wide a gap, county discipline committee may say we have problems with the previous working style.
要把这个数据的度把握在一个适合的范围内。
To grasp the degree of this data in a suitable range.
”大家知道为什么国家要减免所有确诊冠状病人的治疗费用吗？因为治疗一名冠状病人需要花掉几十万元，如果不免费治疗，很多患病的人就不敢去医院治疗，只会瞒报，期待自己能自愈，这样我们永远无法知道到底有多少人患病，也就无法有效控制疫情扩散。
Do you know why the state has to reduce the cost of treating all diagnosed coronary patients? Because it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to treat a coronary. Without free treatment, many sick people are afraid to go to the hospital and hide, hoping to heal, so that we never know how many people are sick and cannot effectively control the spread of the disease.
但庸人当官，很多道理县里面的官僚们都不懂。
But the mediocre official, many reasonable county inside the bureaucrats do not understand.
县纪委根本不明白，如果自己对新报上来的漏报、误报情况进行严肃处理，那么就没有乡镇敢上报新摸排出来的漏报人员，他们只会瞒着自己解决，但乡镇远没有那么强大的力量去解决一些问题。
County disciplinary committee simply do not understand, if their newly reported omission, misreporting, then no township dare to report the new layout of underreporting, they will only hide their own solution, but the township far from the power to solve some problems.
当然，也许县纪委的同志们并没有那么笨，他们很精明，他们知道瞒报出了问题是乡镇的责任，不处理的话是自己的责任，所以即使自己的做法是不利于疫情控制的，但只要不是自己的责任，那为什么不做呢？这就是解决责任，不解决问题，的典型例子。
Of course, perhaps the county discipline committee comrades are not so stupid, they are shrewd, they know that it is the responsibility of the township, not to deal with the problem, so even if their own approach is not conducive to epidemic control, but not their own responsibility, then why not?
他们明知道这样对疫情防控是极其不利的，但是他们依然要这么做，因为乡镇因为害怕纪委追责而瞒报疫情，最后出了问题只会追究乡镇的责任，而不会追究市县纪委的责任，所以他们为什么不这么做呢？疫情如何发展，只要自己和家人没生病，他们就不关心，他们更关心自己的帽子。
They know that this is extremely bad for epidemic prevention and control, but they will do so because the townships will only hold the townships accountable because of fear of disciplinary accountability, not the municipal disciplinary committees, so why not do so?
胡乱督查和形式主义就像是形影不离的双胞胎。
Misdirection and formalism are like inseparable twins.
很多形式主义，就是胡乱督查直接导致的。
A lot of formalism is the direct result of random supervision.
我们来举个例子：如果身份证号码颠倒了两位数字，要被警告处分，那么请问没有身份证号码，会不会被处分呢？答案是肯定的。
If your ID number is reversed and you are warned to take action, will you be punished if you do not have your ID number?
所以基层就提出了很多要求：杜玉门在会上强调：“入户调查，必须填好身份证号码和电话号码，不管是本地人员还是外来居住人员，如果对方不愿意告诉你电话号码和身份证号码，那你无论如何也要想办法拿到他的电话号码和身份证号码。
So many requests have been made at the grassroots level: At the meeting, Du Yu-men stressed: "Household surveys must fill out the ID number and telephone number, whether local or resident, and if the other side is unwilling to tell you the number and ID number, you will have to try to get his number and ID number anyway.
一个村几百人到几千人，一个人也不能缺，一个身份证号码也不能错，兄弟们，关键时期，已经有人因为表格里面的一个错被处理了。
There are hundreds to thousands of people in a village, not a single person is missing, not a single ID card number is wrong, brothers, during this critical period, someone has been dealt with because of an error in the form.
大家一定要注意啊，我也不希望大家跑腿活干了，累得人仰马翻，结果被那群坐办公室里的给处分了！”注意这句话“如果对方不愿意告诉你电话号码和身份证号码，那你无论如何也要想办法拿到他的电话号码和身份证号码”，这句话很关键，也反映了基层的工作难点，上面的人很明显的知道基层的困难在哪里，他甚至亲自提出来了这个问题和矛盾，但他没有给出解决办法，只是下了一个死命令，也就是说，如果对方不愿意提供身份证号码，连布置任务的人也不知道该怎么办。
If the other person doesn't want to tell you your phone number and ID number, you have to figure out a way to get his phone number and ID card now.If the person doesn't want to tell you the number and ID number, you have to figure out a way to get his phone number and ID number.
大多数无能的官僚都是这样，我倒不是说杜玉门无能，他在基层有长期的工作经验，也有过成绩，有自己的事业，在县城开了几家店铺，算是一个能人了，杜玉门不过也只是接到了上面一个无能的官僚下达的无解任务罢了。
This is true of most incompetent bureaucrats. I am not saying that Du Yumen is incompetent. He has long experience and achievements at the grass-roots level, has his own career, has opened several shops in the county town.
这印证了我常常说的那句话：“某些官僚压根就不会解决问题，他们只会挥鞭子，他们解决一切问题的唯一办法就是不停地往下属身上挥鞭子，以期待下属可以解决这个自己不知道该怎么解决的问题。
This confirms what I always say: "Some bureaucrats don't solve problems at all. They just wave their whips. The only way they can solve all their problems is to wave whips at their subordinates in the hope that they can solve a problem they don't know how to solve.
”那么如果下属也是一个无能的官僚呢，上行下效，他又继续往下面的人身上挥鞭子，所以恰恰是在基层，基层干部往往是有能力解决问题的人，因为他们不在有下级可以挥鞭子，所以他们被逼着锻炼出来了解决问题的能力。
"So if his subordinates are also incompetent bureaucrats, he continues to whip people below, so it is precisely at the grass-roots level that grass-roots cadres are often capable of solving problems, because they can no longer swing a whip, so they are forced to exercise their problem-solving ability.
不具有解决问题能力的人是无法在基层生存的。
People who do not have the ability to solve problems cannot survive at the grass roots.
当然，我并不是说基层的干部是最优秀的，基层干部的优点通常是务实，因为虚招子解决不了实际问题，基层干部是必须解决实际问题的人；基层干部的缺点往往是局限于受教育程度不高，导致站位不高，一叶障目不见泰山，有时并不能从全局的利益出发思考和决策。
Of course, I am not saying that cadres at the grass-roots level are the best. The advantages of grass-roots cadres are usually pragmatic, because they do not solve practical problems. Grassroots cadres are the ones who must solve practical problems.
蹲点县领导汪刚在会上强调：“大家要与每一户村民见面，只要是有房子的地方，就要去看看有没有人住，如果不在家的话，就等，必须等到这个人为止，不能漏掉任何一户。
Wang Gang, the squat county leader, stressed at the meeting: "Everyone should meet every villager, as long as there is a house, to see if there are people, if not, wait until this person, can not leave out any households.
而且每天去检查，随时注意家庭变化，而且态度要和气。
And every day to check, always pay attention to changes in the family, and a pleasant attitude.
”两天之内走访完成全县几十万人的工作量，我不知道县领导心里是否知道这是一个什么概念，或者他们信奉“人有多大胆，地有多大产”的人定胜天理念，他们以为“大力出奇迹”可以解决一切客观困难。
After two days of traveling through hundreds of thousands of people across the county, I wonder if county leaders know what the concept is, or whether they believe in the idea of "how bold and productive a person is," believing that "hard work can solve any objective difficulty."
这实在不像是一个共产主义该有的唯心主义想法。
This is not exactly the idealistic idea of communism.
时间很紧，但我要值班，所以我必须值班到下午2点半，我知道今天又将是是一个忙碌到半夜的日子，我必须趁值班的时间写下我的这些转瞬即逝的想法。
The hour was tight, but I was on duty, so I had to stay on duty until 2: 30 p.m. I knew that it would be a busy night again, and I had to write down my fleeting thoughts while on duty.
早上的闹钟没有响，暗示我今天是周六，但是周几对我来说还有任何意义吗？三年来，自从县委书记甘茂上任以后，这种不眠不休连续工作几个月的事情早已习以为常，如果说洪灾和疫情还是紧急事件，那么为了扶贫、环保、拆迁而连续加班几个月，我就无法理解了，县级官僚们总能把一些事情说得极其严重，然后以此理直气壮的占用你几个月的假期。
The morning alarm clock didn't ring, suggesting that I was Saturday, but did a few weeks mean anything to me? For three years, I couldn't understand why, after months of uninterrupted work for poverty alleviation, environmental protection, and demolition, the county bureaucrats have always spoken so loudly that they can justifiably take a few months off your vacation.
我忽然很羡慕996的程序员们，996预示着他们一天只用工作不足12小时，每7天就有1天稳定休息，也就是说一年至少可以休息51天，还有国庆、春节、五一劳动节……假期，还有加班费！我相信这是很多基层干部所渴望的，汝之地狱，吾等之天堂啊！几年前我和同事开过一个玩笑，如果按劳动法规定发放加班费的话，我早就可以在北京买房了，这当然夸张了，因为我低估了北京的房价。
I suddenly envied 996 programmers who work less than 12 hours a day, one steady day of rest every seven days, that is, at least 51 days a year, National Day, Spring Festival, Labor Day... holidays, and overtime pay!
不过说实话，如果能足额发放加班费，我在三江市区付个首付应该绝对没问题了。
But to be honest, if I can pay the full amount of overtime, I should be able to pay a down payment in downtown Sanjiang.
今天，开会花掉了整个下上午，中午值班，我利用值班的时候写下了这篇文章，下午2点半值班结束，我要驱车赶往泉眼村，参加走访，走访到半夜，如果我还有精力的话，晚上回到办公室花掉两个小时把熊开强的信访件改了。
Today, I spent the whole morning on duty at noon, I wrote this article when I was on duty. At 2: 30 p. m., I was going to drive to Quanzhou village, attend the visit and visit the middle of the night. If I had the energy, it would take me two hours to return to the office at night to change the letter.
之前熊开强的信访件发上去，县信访局并不满意，因为他们觉得熊开强一定不满意，返回来要求我们重写，但我想说，除了给钱，没有任何事情能让熊开强满意。
Xiong Kaiqiang's letters and letters were sent to him, and the county complaint bureau was not satisfied because they felt that Xiong Kaiqiang must not be satisfied and returned to ask us to rewrite, but I would like to say that nothing but giving money can make a bear happy.
上午的会议结束时有几个疑问，杜玉门没有解释清楚，因为杜玉门先后给出了两个不同的解释，我先前以为是杜玉门话赶话说错了。
At the end of the morning meeting there were a few questions, and Du Yu-men did not explain it clearly, for Du had given two different explanations.
于是宁碧水提了出来，要求杜玉门解释清楚，到底什么是“外出人员”“在家人员”“外来人员”，宁碧水是吃过亏的，因为之前的政策理解有误，她被处分了，所以她这次非要问清楚不可，可惜还是让她失望了，杜玉门并不能解释清楚表格中“外出人员”“外来人员”“在家人员”之间的关系。
So Ning Bishui took it out and asked Du Yu-men to explain what was meant by "people going out" or "at home" or "outsiders." Ning Yue-shui had suffered a loss because her previous policy had been misunderstood and she had been punished.
看起来很简单的三个词，不在基层的人是很难知道执行起来有多难的，他们凭想象总是觉得很简单，“在家人员”就是在家的人员嘛，“外出人员”就是家里人员外出的嘛，“外来人员”就是外面来的人嘛，如果你这样解释，那你等于什么都没说，大家都认识汉字，没必要让你再读一遍？一个女儿在中都市读大学，春节回家的，请问这是“在家人员”还是“外来人员”？一个人籍贯回归县，在子午县上班，住在子午县亲戚家里，这算“家庭人员”还是“外来人员”？三兄弟供养老母亲，上个月在弟弟家，这个月在哥哥家，请问这在弟弟家算“在家人员”还是“外出人员”？在哥哥家算“外来人员”还是“在家人员”？请问“在家人员”包不包括“外出人员”和“外来人员”？基层情况千变万化，很多情况都是坐在办公室里想象不到的，如果不解释清楚，不及时释疑解惑，那么基层的表格是“一千个读者有一千个哈姆雷特”，每个人看这个表格都能得出来自己的逻辑。
If you don't explain why you are at home, and if you don't explain it in time, then you won't need to read it again.If you go back to your hometown and work in Zi Ng County and live in Zi-Ng County, you don't need to read it again.
而这样的错乱，最后还是会算到基层干部身上，“非常时期”是纪委上纲上线的借口，有时让我感觉自己回到了那个只是听说的动乱时代，一点小错误就能扣上高帽子大肆批判。
And this kind of deranged, still can calculate to the grass-roots cadre finally, "unusual period" is the excuse of discipline committee on the line, sometimes let me feel oneself returned to that only heard of turbulent times, can buckle up the tall hat to criticize.
无能，是官僚的原罪，无论是形式主义，还是胡乱督查，都源自于此。
Incompetence is the original sin of bureaucrats, whether formalism or random supervision, from this.
形式主义和胡乱督查就像是无能的亲儿子，而如何提拔有能力的干部，又是一个拥有着极大挑战的事情。
Formalism and indiscriminate supervision are like incompetent sons, and how to promote competent cadres is a great challenge.
一个有能力的人往往是是不屑于走后门的，他们有能力，所以清高，所以孤傲，所以恃才自傲，他们觉得自己不用奔走也能凭自己的能力平步青云；而那些热衷于旁门左道、跑官拍马的又总是无能之辈，他们知道自己一无是处，不动用“非常手段”，自己根本没法在芸芸众生里出头；而一个地方的的政治生态，如果总是以“潜规则”为主，那么提拔上去的人往往就是无能的人。
A man of ability is often disdainful of backdoor, they have the ability, so high, so arrogant, so proud, and they feel that they do not have to run, the running officer is always incompetent, they know that they are useless, do not use "extraordinary means," the political ecology of a place, if always based on "hidden rules," is often incompetent people.
我曾乐观的以为，世间事总是好坏参半，爬上去也是，一半的人靠旁门左道上去，一半的人靠真材实料上去。
I was optimistic that things were always better and worse, that we would climb them, that half of us would go by the wayside, and half of us would climb on the real thing.
五年过去了，我变得悲观了，因为我慢慢发现，那群我认为“真材实料”的人，也是靠旁门左道上去的。
Five years went by, and I became pessimistic, for I began to see that the group of people whom I thought to be "real" had gone by the wayside.
“真材实料”无法成为他们的通行证，想要在更大的舞台上发挥“真材实料”也要先依靠“旁门左道”。
"Real material" can not be their pass, want to play in the larger stage of "real material" also rely on "bypass".
50%的乐观变成了100%的悲观，这时候我觉得司马坤、欧悦文和毕大生这种整天游手好闲的人，其实要比某些官僚高尚得多，不作为，浪费的只是每年几万块钱的工资福利，只是废品。
At a time when 50% optimism has turned into 100% pessimism, I think Simakun, Ou Yueyin, and Bi Da-sheng, who are loiterers all day, are more noble than some bureaucrats, and waste only tens of thousands of dollars a year in wages and benefits, nothing but waste.
乱作为却是毒品，给国家和人民带来的损失不可计量。
Disorderly conduct is a drug, the cost to the country and people is not quantifiable.
白岩松说，人分几等：最好的，聪明且勤奋；次好的，聪明但懒惰；次等的，愚蠢且懒惰；最差的，愚蠢但勤奋。
'There are several classes of people: the best, smart and diligent, the second best, intelligent but lazy, the second-class, stupid and lazy, and the worst, stupid but diligent, "Bai said.
因为愚蠢但懒惰，危害性是极小的，大多时候只能危害到自己。
Because stupid but lazy, the harm is very small, most of the time can only harm themselves.
但是愚蠢但勤奋，却是要将自己的危害性无限放大，威害到尽可能多的人。
But stupidity, but diligence, is to magnify their own harm infinitely, harming as many people as possible.
乱作为，不如无作为；乱督查，不如不督查。
Better be unruly than do nothing; it is better not to supervise than to supervise.
疫情之下，捆住手脚的基层干部投鼠忌器，抗疫效果只会适得其反。
Epidemic diseases, bound hands and feet of basic cadres contraindications, anti-epidemic effect can only backfire.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫期特别篇（胡乱督查滋生形式主义）。
Special Epidemic Period (random surveillance breeds formalism).
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "基层实录";。
Var nickname = & quot; grass-roots record & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫期特别篇（胡乱督查滋生形式主义）";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Special Epidemic Section (randomly supervised breeding formalism) & quot;;
var msg_desc = "这是一篇注定要要被封的文章，因为公众号/专栏的定位，决定了我从来写不出来什么广为流传的文章，它们总是在爆火之初就被公众号和知乎删个干净，所以如果这篇文章被删了，我丝毫不会感到意外。
var msg _ desc = & quot; This is an article destined to be sealed, because the positioning of public numbers / columns has made it impossible for me to write widely circulated articles that were always censored by the public at the beginning of a fire, so I wouldn't be surprised if it was deleted.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="基层实录";。
Var title = & quot; grass-roots record & quot;;
