作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷-作家方方-财新博客-新世纪的常识传播者-财新网。
Writer Fang Fang: What you can't understand, don't spray - writer Fang Fang-new-century common sense disseminator - Caixin.
财新商城 登录 注册。
Caixin Mall is registered.
财新网首页经济金融公司政经世界观点网文化博客。
Caixin home page economic finance company political economy world view net culture blog.
作家方方的博客。
Author Fang Fang's blog.
位置：博客 > 作家方方 > 作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷。
Location: Blog & gt; Writer Fang Fang; Writer Fang Fang: Don't spray anything you don't understand.
作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷。
Author Fang Fang: Do not spray what you do not understand.
2020年02月16日 23:39。
16 February 2020 23: 39.
分类：时事。
Classification: current affairs.
阅读：31294。
Read: 31294.
评论：0。
Comment: 0.
正月二十三。
Twenty-third January.
。
.
也不记得这是封城的多少天。
I don't remember how many days this city was closed.
今天的阳光真是配得上春天。
The sunshine today is really worthy of spring.
昨天的雪，已经一点踪迹都看不到了。
There was not a trace of yesterday's snow.
我从二楼望下去，树叶在阳光下都反着光。
I looked down from the second floor. The leaves were all glowing in the sun.
。
.
尽管与昨天相比，我已经心平了许多。
I am much calmer than I was yesterday.
但来自京城的攻击，仍在继续。
But the attacks from the capital continued.
这让人实在无法理解是什么样的动力让他们有这么多仇恨。
It's hard to understand what motivates them to have so much hatred.
好像，他们一生都在咬牙切齿。
It's like they've been gnashing their teeth all their lives.
仇恨很多人，仇恨很多事。
Hate many people, hate many things.
甚至不管对方在哪里，处于什么样的状态，他们仍然强烈而执着地恨着。
They hate each other intensely and persistently, even wherever and in whatever state they are.
而他们所恨的我，与他们素不相识，从未谋面。
And I, whom they hated, had never known them, and had never met.
。
.
“飞象网项立刚”。
"The flying elephant net item stands firm."
昨天速速删除他造谣构陷我的微博，却又另外撰文说：“你哪来的照片？你困在家里编造制造社会恐慌，暗示大量病亡无人管的消息，你有良心吗？”。
"Where are you from?" he wrote in a separate article yesterday, "where did you come from? Do you have a conscience when you're stuck at home and making up stories about mass deaths and deaths?"
这真是让人哭笑不得的提问。
It was a crying question.
据说此人还是通讯行业的，居然问得这样幼稚。
It is said that this person is still the communication industry, unexpectedly asked so naive.
无人机能在高空定点杀人的时代，我在家里就看不到外面的照片？我就无法了解到我居住的城市发生了什么事？看我记录的人们都不恐慌，你倒是恐慌了？我在疫区，封闭在家，通过网络与朋友同事交流，并记下我每天的所见所闻，苦苦等待拐点到来。
At a time when drones can kill people at high altitude, I can't see outside photos at home? I can't see what's happening in the city I live in. You're panicked? I'm in the epidemic area, shut up at home, communicating with my friends and colleagues online, and waiting for the inflection point to arrive.
你在京城，自由自在，倒是花费心机天天骂我。
You are in the capital, free, but spend time scolding me every day.
你这就叫有良心？可以告诉你：更多的人，看过我的记录，然后说，他们安心了。
You call it conscience? Here's what you can tell: more people, read my records, and say, they're relieved.
。
.
更有一个微博名为“盘索”的人说：“反正‘医生传照片’‘同学死了’‘邻居如何如何’等等都不用上名字，说出来增加恐慌就行了。
Another blogger named "Panchou" said: "Anyway, the doctor sent photos of the classmate died 'How about the neighbors' etc. No need to name them, just add to the panic.
读她的近期文章，感觉创造了许多匿名角色，也算文学一大创新。
Reading her recent articles, it feels like a lot of anonymous characters have been created, but also a major literary innovation.
”又一个没有常识的壮汉。
"Another stout man without common sense.
病人刚刚去世，亲人都在伤痛之中，难道我还要点名道姓补上一刀？让所有人都知道他们的苦难？我在武汉上学和生活，我的同学我的邻居也都在此。
The patient has just died, relatives are in pain, do I have to name and call to add a knife? Let everyone know their suffering? I study and live in Wuhan, my classmates and my neighbors are here.
我的文章也是公开的，我若编造，他们难道会不知道？官方公布的死亡名单数字盘索看到了吗？仅武汉死亡人数就是一千多，我的文章才提到几个？连零头都不到！再说明白点，凡是官方媒体没有公开的死者名字，我现在一个都不会公开。
My article is also public, if I make up, they do not know? The official death list figures read? Wuhan alone more than a thousand deaths, my article mentioned? Not even a few! And, to be clear, where the official media do not have published the names of the dead, I will not reveal any of them.
。
.
湖北电影制片场常凯一家因冠性肺炎惨遭灭门之灾，今天，他同学写的纪念文章刷屏。
Hubei film production field Changkai family because of the destruction of crowning pneumonia, today, his classmates wrote a souvenir screen.
常凯的临终留言，凄然而悲痛，读起来撕心裂肺。
Changkai's last message, sad and sad, read up to tear heart and lungs.
不知道这些人会不会又认为，这又是在制造恐慌？而我在前天曾经写过我的画家朋友捐款十万的事，今天，他的哥哥也因冠性肺炎去世。
I don't know if these people would think it was creating panic again, but I wrote about my painter's friend's 100,000 donation the day before yesterday, and his brother died of coronary pneumonia today.
项立刚们，会不会还是说，这是谣言？。
Xiang Ligang, can you still say that this is a rumor?
说到我的“医生朋友”，显然是不止一个。
When it comes to my "doctor friend," there's obviously more than one.
这得告诉项立刚们：他们都是自己专业的顶尖人物，我自然不会把他们的名字暴露在外。
This has to tell Xianglianggang: they are the top professional, I naturally do not expose their names.
之所以不暴露，就是因为有你们这类人渣的存在。
The reason why we don't expose it is because of the existence of dregs like you.
而官方无脑，还容易偏信你们，我自是不会让朋友们无端受到伤害。
And the official has no brain, also easy to partial to you, I am not to let the friends without cause harm.
今天下午，又一个医生朋友（当然也是他所学专业的顶尖人物，我还是不能暴露名字）打来电话，我们已经好久没联系了。
This afternoon, another doctor friend (and certainly the top figure in his major, I still can't name him) phoned, and we haven't spoken to each other for a long time.
谈了一下我的封城记录，他说，外省人找他了解武汉疫情，他就推荐看我的封城记录。
Talking about my records, he said that people from the provinces to find out about Wuhan epidemic, he recommended to see my records.
并说在那里可以看到真实的东西。
And said there was something real to see there.
我们自然会聊到疫情。
Of course we'll talk about the outbreak.
医生朋友说，疫情现在应该是控制住了。
Doctor friends say the outbreak should now be under control.
它的毒性越来越弱，只是传染性越来越强。
It is becoming less toxic, but increasingly contagious.
从现在的病人状态可见，感染者多是轻症，治愈率很高。
From the current state of patients can be seen, infection is often a mild disease, cure rate is very high.
死亡率之所以没有降下来，还是先前留下的重症病人太多。
The mortality rate did not fall because there were too many serious cases left behind.
这些话，其实我前面的记录里也讲过，重症都是早期的存量。
These words, in fact, I also said in the record before, serious illness is the stock of the early.
看来医生们所在医院不同，看法几乎都差不多。
Doctors seem to be at almost the same point of view, depending on the hospital.
。
.
整个局势的好转，无非几条：一则因为毒性减弱，二则因为增援人手的到来，医护人员可以从容工作；三是医用物资不再窘迫，有了自我保护的条件；四是医生们通过这么多天的临床治疗，用药也有了经验。
The overall situation has improved in several ways: on the one hand, as a result of reduced toxicity, on the other hand, because of the arrival of additional personnel, so that medical staff can take their time; thirdly, medical supplies are no longer in a position to protect themselves; and fourthly, doctors have gained experience in the use of drugs through so many days of clinical treatment.
雷神医院的王院长甚至公开对媒体说：真正的疫情拐点已经到来。
Dean Wang of Raytheon Hospital even publicly told the media: the true inflection point of the epidemic has arrived.
他们从新发病的情况观察到，发热的数量在下降，是逐渐在降，稳稳地在降，而且没有反弹过。
They observe from the new onset that the number of fevers is declining, that it is gradually falling, that it is falling steadily, and that it has not rebounded.
王院长说：“我是很有信心的。
"I am very confident," said President Wang.
”。
"
这不正是我们等待已久的好消息吗？。
Isn't that the good news we've been waiting for?
医生朋友下午还发给我一个视频。
The doctor's friend sent me a video this afternoon.
视频内容是一个年轻人在普及医学论文之类。
Video content is a young man popularizing medical theses and the like.
其中，他反复讲到一句话：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷。
Among them, he repeated a sentence: you do not understand things, do not spray casually.
我是太赞同这个观点了。
I can't agree more with this view.
。
.
以自己的文化程度和理解能力所无法明白的东西，请先看着，先琢磨着，不要忙于结论，更不要开口即骂。
Look at what you can't understand with your education and understanding. Look at it first, meditate on it, don't get too busy with your conclusions, and don't open your mouth and scold.
尤其项立刚们的脑残粉。
Especially the brain powder of the Xiangliangmen.
他们留言批我说，难道火葬场没有家属？难道家属不会收遗物？这叫人怎么说呢？他们如果只会按常态来理解灾难，你就跟他讲不清楚。
They wrote to me saying, 'Is there no family in the crematorium? Don't the family collect the relics? What does that say? If they only understand the disaster as normal, you can't tell him.
。
.
武汉现在是在灾难之中。
Wuhan is now in the midst of disaster.
灾难是什么？灾难不是让你戴上口罩，关你几天不让出门，或是进小区必须通行证。
Disaster is not to let you wear a mask, shut you out for a few days, or into the community must pass.
灾难是医院的死亡证明单以前几个月用一本，现在几天就用完一本；灾难是火葬场的运尸车，以前一车只运一具尸体，且有棺材，现在是将尸体放进运尸袋，一车摞上几个，一并拖走；灾难是你家不是一个人死，而是一家人在几天或半个月内，全部死光；灾难是你拖着病体在寒风冷雨中四处奔走，试图寻得一张可以收留你的病床，却找不到；灾难是你从清早在医院排队挂号，一直排到次日凌晨才能排到，有可能还没有排到，你就轰然倒地；灾难是你在家里等待医院的床位通知，而通知来时，你已断气；灾难是重症病人送进医院，如果他死了，进医院的时刻就是跟家人诀别的时刻，彼此都永无相见之日。
The disaster was that you were waiting at the hospital for a dead body and a coffin, and now you were waiting for the hospital bed notification, but you couldn't find it. The disaster was that your family was not dead, but a family in a few days or half a month.
你以为死者在那样的时候还有家人在殡葬馆相送？还能留下他的遗物，甚至，死者还能拥有死的尊严？没有了，死就是死了。
Do you think there were any family members at the funeral parlour when the dead were there? You could have left his remains, even if the dead had the dignity to die? No, death is dead.
拖走，然后立即烧掉。
Drag it off and burn it right away.
疫情的早期阶段，没有人手，没有床位，医护人员没有防护设施，大面积感染，火葬场人手不够，拖尸车不够，焚尸炉不够，而尸体上带着病毒，必须尽快烧掉。
In the early stages of the outbreak, there were no personnel, no beds, no protective facilities for medical staff, widespread infection, insufficient number of crematoria, insufficient number of trailers, insufficient incinerators and bodies carrying viruses which must be burned as soon as possible.
你们知道这些吗？不是人们不尽职，而是灾难来了，人们已经尽了全力，甚至超负荷，但却无法做到喷子们所说的那些。
Do you know this? It's not people who don't do their job, it's disasters that happen and people try their best, even overload, but can't do what the Jet say.
岁月在灾难中没有静好，只有病人的死不甘心，只有亲属的胆肝寸断，只有生者的向死而生。
The years in the disaster not static, only the patient's death unwilling, only the relatives of the heart-broken, only the living to die.
。
.
早期的混乱，已经结束。
The early chaos is over.
据我所知，已经有专家们在草拟给冠性肺炎死者及家属更多人文关怀和尊重的报告。
As far as I know, experts have been working on a report on more humane care and respect for those who died and their families with coronary pneumonia.
其中就有关于设法保存死者遗物，尤其手机的条款。
Among them is a clause that seeks to preserve the remains of the deceased, especially mobile phones.
建议先集中保存，疫后消毒，以及与电信部门沟通，根据手机内信息，设法找到亲属。
It is recommended to concentrate on preservation, disinfection after the epidemic, as well as communication with telecommunication departments, according to the information in the mobile phone, try to find relatives.
这是亲人的一份纪念。
It's a souvenir from a loved one.
若实在无主，也保存下来，或可为历史留作证物。
And if there be none at all, they shall be preserved, or they may bear witness to history.
。
.
这世道，之所以还让我抱有期待，是看到仍然有这些善良而理性的人在为之努力和忙碌。
This world, why I also hope to see that there are still these good and rational people working and busy.
。
.
推荐 1 　　财新博客版权声明：财新博客所发布文章及图片之版权属博主本人及/或相关权利人所有，未经博主及/或相关权利人单独授权，任何网站、平面媒体不得予以转载。
The copyright of the articles and pictures posted by Caixin blog belongs to the blogger himself / herself and / or the related right holder. No website or print media may be reproduced without the sole authorization of the blogger and / or the relevant rights holder.
财新网对相关媒体的网站信息内容转载授权并不包括财新博客的文章及图片。
Caixin's permission to reprint the content of related media websites does not include articles and pictures from Caixin blog.
博客文章均为作者个人观点，不代表财新网的立场和观点。
Blog articles are the author's personal point of view, does not represent the positions and views of Caixin.
。
.
share_title=encodeURIComponent('#财新博客#【作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷】正月二十三。
Share _ title = encodeURIComponent. # [Author] Fang Fang: What you can't understand, don't spray on January 23.
也不记得这是封城的多少天。
I don't remember how many days this city was closed.
今天的阳光真是配得上春天。
The sunshine today is really worthy of spring.
昨天的雪，已经一点踪迹都看不到了。
There was not a trace of yesterday's snow.
我从二楼望下去，树叶在阳光下都反着光。
I looked down from the second floor. The leaves were all glowing in the sun.
尽管与昨天相比，我已经心平了许多。
I am much calmer than I was yesterday.
但来自京城的攻击，仍在继续。
But the attacks from the capital continued.
这......');。
; [This is...;
share_keyword = encodeURIComponent('作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷');。
share _ keyword = encodeURIComponent; writer Fang Fang: What you don't understand, don't casually spit out & apos;
share_description = encodeURIComponent('作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不要随便喷');。
share _ description = encodeURIComponent; writer Fang Fang: Don't casually spit out & apos; what you don't understand.);
作家方方。
Author Fang Fang.
订阅点订阅后，该博主如有文章更新，财新网将会在第一时间通过邮件通知您。
Subscribe to the point of subscription, the blog owner if there is an article update, Caixin will inform you in the first time via email.
。
.
上一篇：作家方方：武汉，今夜我不关心脑残，我只关心你。
Writer Fang Fang: Wuhan, I do not care about brain disability tonight, I only care about you.
下一篇：没有了。
The next chapter: No.
/*功能栏2*/。
* Functional column 2 * /.
document.write('<em aid="100" tid="'+srcinfoid+'">0</em>');0发表评论。
Document .write (& apos; em aid = & quot; 100 & quot; tid = & quot; & quot; + srcinfoid + & apos; & quot; & gt; 0; 0; em & gt; & gt; & apos; 0); 0.
分享到微信朋友圈。
Share it with your friends.
腾讯转发。
Tencent forwards.
新浪转发。
Sina forward.
总访问量：379100博主简介。
Total number of visits: 379,100 blog posts.
作家方方湖北作协原主席。
Fang Fang Hubei the original president of the association.
文章。
Articles.
个人分类。
Classification of individuals.
未分类(18) 。
Not classified (18).
文章归档。
Archive articles.
2020 年二月(17)。
February 2020 (17).
2020 年一月(1)。
January 2020 (1).
最新文章。
Latest article.
作家方方：你看不懂的东西，不...2020-02-16。
Author Fang Fang: What you don't understand, no... 2020-02-16.
作家方方：武汉，今夜我不关心...2020-02-16。
Author Fang Fang: Wuhan, I don't care about... 2020-02-16 tonight.
作家方方：秉持人道精神，就是...2020-02-14。
Author Fang Fang: Upholding humanism is... 2020-02-14.
作家方方：或许那时他们才会懂...2020-02-13。
Writer Fang Fang: Maybe then they will understand... 2020-02-13.
作家方方：武汉人的痛，不是喊...2020-02-12。
Writer Fang Fang: Wuhan people's pain, not shouting... 2020-02-12.
登录 请使用购买账号登录，其他需要请点击帮助     财新账号登录    微信快捷登录    微博快捷登录    QQ快捷登录   还没有财新账号？立即注册 。
Login please use the purchase account login, other needs please click to help finance new account login micro-letter quick login microblog fast login QQ Quick login has no new account?
