豪华游轮变海外第一疫区，仅仅用了10天。
It took only 10 days for a luxury cruise ship to become the No. 1 spot overseas.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
Play每天一条独家原创视频这是一艘除了泰坦尼克号，史上最倒霉的豪华游轮“钻石公主号”。
An exclusive original video of the day by Play This is the most hapless luxury ship in history, the Princess Diamond, besides the Titanic.
登上钻石公主号表演的魔术师陈日升2月1日，一名已下船的香港乘客被检出新型肺炎，2月5日起，船上船员和乘客共3711人被海上隔离，截至2月13日，共计218人确诊新型肺炎，成了最严重的”海外疫区”。
Hong Kong passenger was quarantined with pneumonia on Feb. 5, a total of 2 711 crew members and passengers were quarantined at sea. As of February 13, 218 people had been diagnosed with new pneumonia, making it the worst "overseas epidemic area."
乘客只能待在自己的舱房中，三餐由工作人员配送到房门口，每天各楼层轮流到甲板放风1.5小时，随着隔离时间拉长，游轮环境日趋恶劣，有乘客甚至床单超过一周没更换，餐食也从西餐变成泡面和干粮。
Passengers could only stay in their cabins, three meals were distributed by staff to the door of the house, and the decks were kept open on a daily basis for 1.5 hours on a rotating basis. As the isolation period lengthened, the cruise ship environment deteriorated, passengers and even sheets were not replaced for more than a week, and meals changed from Western food to pasta and dry food.
医务室每天大排长龙，能够接受筛检的人数，却不到全船的十分之一，船员和乘客们纷纷在网络留言或录视频向外界求救：“这样下去没感染的迟早被感染，难道非得确诊新型肺炎才能下船吗？下一个会不会是我？”然而下船就医真的是更好的选择吗？目前至少近30名美国确诊病患被送往日本医院，他们的反馈居然是：可能待在船上还比较好些......撰文白汶平让人满心期待的海上之旅，在1月25日变了调。
The infirmary is lined up every day to screen less than a tenth of the ship's population. Crews and passengers are calling for help on the Internet: "Does not get infected sooner or later, do you have to be diagnosed with new pneumonia?"
一名香港80岁乘客下船后出现不适，香港政府2月1日证实，这名乘客确诊新型肺炎。
Hong Kong's 80-year-old passenger was unwell after disembarking from the ship. The Hong Kong government confirmed on February 1 that the passenger had been diagnosed with pneumonia.
2月3日，钻石公主号紧急加速返回日本横滨港口，当时乘客都还不清楚发生什么事。
On February 3, the Princess Diamond hastened back to the port of Yokohama, Japan, without passengers knowing what had happened.
日本政府决定对船上所有人进行快筛，但人数众多根本无法一一检验，因此日本政府2月5日下令，即日起进行海上隔离，让原本收拾好行李要下船的乘客们非常错愕。
Japan's government ordered the vessel to be quarantined on Feb. 5, prompting shock from passengers who had packed their bags to get off the ship.
很多被困游客纷纷通过直播向外界求助，一条联系上了一位在航线途中登船的魔术师陈日升，通话期间，陈日升声音沙哑，不断咳嗽，但他没有发烧，始终不能接受检测，只能先在房内多喝水、多休息.....以下为陈日升的自述。
During the conversation, Chen Risheng, a magician who boarded the ship on his way to the sea, had a hoarse voice and coughed constantly. However, he did not have a fever and could not be tested.
魔术师1月27日满怀期待登船表演，如今却被隔离陈日升在游轮上的剧场表演，照片拍摄于1月29日我是魔术师陈日升，负责船上的魔术表演。
The magician, who was expecting to board the ship on January 27, was quarantined by Chen Risheng's theatrical performance on the cruise ship. Pictured on January 29, I was the magician Chen Risheng, in charge of the magic show on the ship.
1月26日我从台湾飞到越南登船，但其实前一天，1月25日船停靠香港时，就有一批香港乘客下船了，那时候我们都不知道有人被感染新型肺炎。
I flew from Taiwan to Vietnam on January 26, but the day before, when the ship docked in Hong Kong on January 25, a group of Hong Kong passengers got off the ship.
行程照样进行，1月31日船停在台湾基隆港的时候，大家也下船去玩、去吃东西，都没有觉得怎么样。
On January 31, when the ship stopped at the port of Keelung, Taiwan, everyone got off the boat to play and eat, without feeling any better.
没想到在2月1日，一位80岁香港乘客出现阳性反应，确诊新型肺炎。
Unexpectedly, on February 1, an 80-year-old Hong Kong passenger developed positive reaction to confirm the new pneumonia.
我本来2月3日就把东西收拾好了，结果船上临时通知大家都不能下船，要做检疫。
I had my things packed up on February 3, so we were told temporarily that no one could get off the ship and be quarantined.
陈日升居住的客舱房是专属表演者的单人间我住的是专门给工作人员住的房间，陈设简单，就一张单人床，空间比较小，从隔离到现在，我床单都没换，不过衣服都有洗，我有洗衣液，反正船上很干，衣服洗好挂着隔天就干了。
The cabins where Chen Risheng lives are single rooms for performers. I live in a simple, single bed with little room for staff. From isolation until now, my sheets have not been changed, but my clothes are washed, I have laundry liquid, the ship is very dry, laundry ready to hang the next day.
每天船上定时安排各楼层的人外出到甲板放风1.5小时，横滨大概气温是5到8度，有点冷，上周六（2月8日）我吃完午饭就到甲板走走，每个人都规定要戴口罩，吹着海风，呼吸新鲜空气真的让人比较放松。
It was a little cold, maybe 5 to 8 degrees, and I went out for a walk on the deck after lunch last Saturday (Feb. 8). Everyone was required to wear masks, blow the sea breeze, and breathe the fresh air was really relaxing.
那天，我遇到一位80多岁的日本婆婆，拄着拐杖蹒跚地向前走，我突然悲从中来，忍不住哭了，船上大部分都是长辈，他们开开心心来玩，却遇到病毒威胁……工作人员每天定时会送饭和水，也会配送消毒酒精、口罩、温度计，乘客自己量体温，有发烧就通报，优先做筛检，我体温是36.8度，还算正常。
The other day, I met an 80-year-old Japanese mother-in-law, hobbling along on crutches. I suddenly came to grief and cried. Most of the old people on board were happy with their food and water, and distributed sterile alcohol, masks and thermometers.
我一开始很焦虑，最害怕的就是每天早上看手机，醒来一看都是几十例增加，一天四十几例、六十几例等等。
I was very anxious at first, the most afraid is to look at the phone every morning, wake up to see dozens of cases increase, a day more than 40 cases, 60 cases, and so on.
陈日升2月1日在个人网站上贴出求救信息2月1日的时候，我很焦虑，在个人网站上贴出了求救信息。
When Chen posted his distress message on his personal Web site Feb. 1, I was anxious to post a distress message on my personal website.
但现在我都麻痹了，我试着调整心态，告诉自己要保持乐观，多吃点水果，多喝水保持体力。
But now that I'm paralyzed, I try to adjust my mind and tell myself to be optimistic, eat more fruit, drink more water to maintain physical strength.
船长每天都会广播鼓励大家，船每隔两天会开到外海，主要是进行水源循环，确保船上有足够的水可以使用。
The captain broadcasts every day to encourage people to go out to sea every two days, mainly for water recycling to ensure that there is enough water on board.
我有遇到一对日本夫妻，其中，先生是被确诊新型肺炎下船了，但他太太没有症状，他们同住一间房，应该感染可能性是比较高的，但是因为太太都没有发烧，现在也只能继续在船上隔离。
I met a Japanese couple whose husband had been diagnosed with new pneumonia, but his wife was asymptomatic. They shared a room and were more likely to be infected, but since neither wife had a fever, she was now isolated on the ship.
陈日升的舱房外可看见横滨港口每天都有媒体在驻守我从上船到现在超过2周了，反正被感染的就被感染，赶快下船去治疗，港口边都有救护车在待命，没被感染就是靠抵抗力、意志力撑吧。
I've been on board for more than two weeks. Anyhow, those who got infected got infected. Get off the ship for treatment. Ambulances are on standby at the port.
就算我真的不幸被感染，我想症状也不会太严重，可以被治疗，致死率不是很高吧，我觉得要正面积极一点。
Even if I'm really unlucky enough to get infected, I don't think the symptoms will be too serious to be treated, the death rate is not very high, I think positive.
陈日升请在日本的朋友帮忙送物资我的表演工作原本就是从1月27日到2月4日，所以我只带了9天行李。
Chen Risheng asked a friend in Japan to help deliver supplies. My acting job was originally from January 27 to February 4, so I only had nine days of luggage.
隔离期间，我的维他命C、保健食品、零食、隐形眼镜都用完了，幸好现在已经开放寄送物资和药品到船上，我托朋友从东京带来一些必需品，他开车过来横滨，港口的工作人员会帮忙把物资送到房间，我拿到东西也才3小时，非常快。
During the quarantine period, I ran out of vitamin C, health food, snacks and contact lenses. Fortunately, now that I was open to shipping supplies and medicines on board, I asked my friends to bring some essentials from Tokyo.
最差的情况就是继续被隔离吧，目前是说隔离到2月19日，但每天都有新的病例出现，不晓得会不会再继续延长隔离时间。
The worst case scenario is continued isolation, which currently stands at 19 February, but new cases occur every day, and it is unclear whether the prolonged isolation period will continue.
对我而言现在就是晚上很难睡，因为我一整天都没做什么事，晚上就睡不着。
It's hard for me to sleep at night because I haven't done anything all day and I can't sleep at night.
经过这次我才体会，当自己处于新闻事件中，才会知道压力，紧张程度真的不是局外人想像得到的，希望大家都可以度过难关平安回家。
After this experience, when they are in the news event, will know the pressure, the degree of tension is not really imagined by outsiders, I hope that we can overcome difficulties and safely go home.
豪华游轮变隔离舱来看看这艘游轮的构造。
Deluxe cruise ship change compartments come to see the structure of this cruise ship.
钻石公主号（Diamond Princess），隶属美国公主邮轮旗下营运的游轮，船型是Grand级别游轮中最大型的。
The Diamond Princess, a cruise ship operated by the Princess of the United States, is the largest of the Grand Class cruise ships.
带阳台的标准客舱房带窗的客舱房游轮中共有1337间客舱，其中748间客舱设有专用阳台，212间客舱面海带有封闭式窗户，29间无障碍客舱，其余348间是不带窗户的内舱房。
The standard cabin with a balcony has a total of 1,337 cabins, of which 748 have dedicated balconies, 212 have enclosed cabins with enclosed windows, 29 accessible cabins and 348 windowless interior cabins.
设施包含酒吧、剧场、温泉、游泳池、赌场、艺术画廊、图书馆、咖啡店、餐厅、洗衣店......等，应有尽有。
Facilities include bars, theatres, hot springs, swimming pools, casinos, art galleries, libraries, coffee shops, restaurants, laundry, etc.
这次受到新型肺炎影响的就是为期16天的长期行程，而其旅费价格从25万日币（约1.6万人民币）到138万日币（约8.7万人民币），可是一趟奢华之旅。
The 16-day trip was affected by the new pneumonia, which cost between 250,000 yen (16,000 yuan) and 1.38 million yen (87,000 yuan), but was a lavish trip.
隔离预计结束日期是2月19日，游轮公司公告这趟行程将全额退费，但游轮公司股价大跌损失惨重，3月、4月的船期几乎已经无法成行。
Cruise companies announced a full refund on their scheduled end date of February 19, but cruise ship companies suffered huge losses when their share prices plummeted, making it almost impossible to ship in March and April.
钻石公主号原先在这次行程后，还要前往冲绳等地做做短期旅程，现在也出现退票潮，纵使全船消毒处理，短时间内还是无法让所有人安心。
The Princess of Diamonds, which made a short trip to Okinawa and other places after the trip, is now experiencing a wave of refunds that will not reassure anyone for a short time, even if the ship is sterilized.
目前船上的乘客已经在客舱里“关”了超过一周，游轮公司开放免费Wifi，不少乘客透过网络分享自己的隔离生活，也有人借此向外求援。
Passengers on board have been "closed" in the cabin for more than a week, cruise lines are open to free Wifi, and many passengers share their lives in isolation via the Internet, while others turn to others for help.
香港乘客“后排既后排”在论坛上更新近况论坛开放你问我答来自香港的游客在论坛上化名“后排既后排”开放你问我答，不定时分享近况，他提到自己原本和家人趁着春节出来玩，并多次强调“我们不是生化武器，大家都有做好自我防护。
You asked me whether visitors from Hong Kong could use the alias "Back row back row." When you asked me about the recent situation, he mentioned that he and his family had taken advantage of the Spring Festival and repeatedly stressed that "we are not chemical weapons, we all have self-defense.
”希望外界不要给感染者或隔离者贴标签。
The hope is that the infected or isolated will not be labeled.
刚开始的一两天，乘客完全不能踏出房门，虽然门没有上锁，但只要一外出，就会立刻被工作人员劝回房内，“后来安排了轮流放风，每天1.5小时，感觉好像犯人。
For the first day or two, passengers were completely unable to step out of the door, and although the door was not locked, staff immediately persuaded them to return to their rooms as soon as they went out.
”这名香港游客说，现在吃的东西由戴上N95口罩的工作人员送进房，不能选择餐食，虽然可以看电视，不过主要都看日本NHK，还有几个印度台、澳洲台、CCTV，选择不多，“船上有提供纸牌和桌上游戏给我们玩。
The Hong Kong tourist said staff wearing the N95 mask had brought food into the house and could not choose meals. Although they could watch television, they mainly watched the NHK in Japan.
”船上发了数独和桌游给乘客解闷他很忧心，“至今不知道病毒怎么传播，船上又是密闭空间，待在房间也不见得安全，病毒也可能透过中央空调传播吧”。
"So far he has no idea how the virus will spread, nor is it safe to stay in the room. The virus may also spread through central air conditioning.
同时也说明目前心情已经比较平静了，偶尔打扫房间，注意个人卫生，静静等到14天隔离期结束。
At the same time, the mood has been relatively calm, occasionally cleaning the room, pay attention to personal hygiene, quietly waiting until the end of the 14-day isolation period.
澳洲乘客网上下单红酒，卖家以无人机送到钻石公主号游轮上无人机送红酒苦中作乐澳洲夫妻Dave和Jan，2月7日在网上订购葡萄酒，并询问平台能否免费送到日本，结果平台收到订单后，在几个小时内就透过无人机，成功把两箱葡萄酒送上游轮。
Australian couples Dave and Jan ordered wine online on February 7 and asked if it could be delivered to Japan free of charge. As a result, the platform successfully delivered two cases of wine to a cruise ship within hours of receiving the order.
当时港口人员虽有发现无人机，但没有阻止，因此酒还是顺利送达，夫妻俩惊喜收到葡萄酒后，立刻开箱，发照片，享受快乐时光。
The drone was spotted by the port staff, but it didn't stop, so the drink arrived and the couple were pleasantly surprised when they received the wine, opened it, sent out photos and had a good time.
日籍网友Coco的父母在游轮上隔离父母在船上隔离发照报平安日本籍的Coco她的父母搭上这次游轮之旅，她虽没上船，但每天会在推特更新父母的最新情况。
Japanese netizen Coco's parents are on a cruise ship quarantined by their parents on a boat. Japanese national Coco hitched on the cruise, but tweeted daily updates on her parents.
她说妈妈本来是开朗的人，受到隔离后心情也很低落。
She said her mother was a cheerful person and she was depressed after being isolated.
Coco的父母不会用社交软件，但因为船上有网络，所以每天吃饭、放风，都会和Coco联系。
Coco's parents don't use social software, but because there's a network on board, they'll contact Coco every day for dinner and exercise.
一开始船上的菜色都很丰富，但隔离将近一周后，餐盘已经来不及清洁，新鲜食材应该也不够了，渐渐地换成免洗餐具、泡面、干粮。
At first the boat was rich in food, but after nearly a week of isolation, the plates were too late to clean, and fresh ingredients should not be enough. Gradually, they were replaced by dishwasher-free, pasta and dry food.
工作人员每天规律送餐：早上七点送早餐、下午两点送午餐、晚上七点送晚餐，Coco的父母很感谢工作人员，他们除了要准备餐点，也要承受乘客的情绪，每个人的态度都非常诚恳，而且很亲切，“我想大部分乘客也都可以配合隔离，互相体谅。
With breakfast at seven in the morning, lunch at two in the afternoon and dinner at seven in the evening, Coco's parents are grateful to the staff for their hospitality and the sincerity and kindness of the passengers. "I think most of the passengers can cooperate in the isolation and understanding.
”乘客自己更换被单船上洗衣机已停用，乘客自行清洁衣物乘客每天自己量体温，如有发烧需主动通报Coco说：“我父母住的船舱没有阳台，不过有窗户，房间配置是两张床和一张桌子，他们自己更换床单、洗衣服、偶尔做做运动，互相有个照应，我觉得还是比较幸运的，想想住在内舱房的乘客，完全没有阳光，心情会有多焦虑，希望能有咨询师能够帮帮他们。
Passengers are advised to take their own temperature every day. "My parents' cabin has no balcony, but there are windows, two beds and a table. They change the sheets, wash the clothes, do exercises occasionally and have a mutual care.
”工作人员集体求援船上的工作人员Binay Kumar Sarkar来自印度，他录制一段90秒短片，向印度政府求助，希望能够让印度籍的船员早日离开。
The staff member, Binay Kumar Sarkar, from India, who worked on board the rescue ship, recorded a 90-second short film and asked the Indian Government for help in getting the Indian crew to leave as soon as possible.
目前船上的1045位工作人员中，有132位印度人，居住环境非常狭小，4人共用一间卫浴，平时大家都一起吃饭、一起生活，每天把餐点送进客舱，对工作人员身体和心理都是很沉重的负担。
Of the 1,045 staff members on board, 132 are Indian, living in a very cramped environment, sharing a bathroom with four people, eating together, living together and delivering meals to the cabin every day, which places a heavy physical and psychological burden on the staff.
“钻石公主号就像一个小城市，已经超过10位工作人员确诊新型肺炎，但在确诊之前，大家都一起吃饭、一起活动、一起工作，难保不会造成感染。
"The Princess of Diamonds is a small city with more than 10 staff members diagnosed with the new pneumonia, but before it is diagnosed, people eat together, exercise together and work together and it is difficult to avoid infection.
”截止2月14日，已有两名印度籍船员确诊新型肺炎。
As of February 14, two Indian sailors had confirmed the new pneumonia.
船上资讯流通慢部分日本游客说，这些日子以来已经吃腻船上食物，多半是洋食，希望可以吃到日本的东西，前几天船上准备的味噌汤，让他们非常感谢。
Some Japanese tourists said that they had been fed up with food on board these days, mostly foreign food, hoping to get something from Japan, and the miso soup prepared on the boat the other day, which they very much appreciated.
不过他们也表示，目前最大问题是资讯流通不够完善，乘客都得通过广播才能知道最新情况，有时在外海收讯不好，也无法收到外界资讯，就连日本政府有意让乘客分批下船的消息，他们都是从亲友传来的讯息中得知。
However, they said the biggest problem was the inadequate flow of information, with passengers having to use the radio to keep abreast of the latest developments, sometimes not receiving good news from overseas or outside sources, and even news that the Japanese government intended passengers to disembark in batches, as they heard from relatives and friends.
“随着时间越来越长，确诊病例越来越多，真的很不安……”确诊的218起病例中，将近30人是美国籍，他们透过视频日志记录了下船后的就医情况，令人惊讶的是，大家的共同感想是：医院待遇比船上还差......2月12日，一名70岁的美国男性乘客，因为确诊新型肺炎要被送下船，当日一通电话打来让他准备下船就医，不过规定只能带最小限度的基本日用品。
"As time went on and the number of confirmed cases increased, it was really unsettling..." Nearly 30 of the 218 cases diagnosed were American nationals who recorded their medical treatment after disembarkation through video logs... Surprisingly, a 70-year-old male American passenger was called on February 12 to get off the ship with minimal basic supplies.
收拾好背包，这位男性乘客搭上停在游轮外的接驳巴士，被送往70米开外的候船室。
With his backpack packed, the male passenger picked up the shuttle bus outside the cruise ship and was taken 70 metres away to the waiting room.
接驳巴士上，窗帘紧闭，同车有几位已确诊感染的病患在等候发车。
On the feeder bus, the curtains were closed and several patients with confirmed infection were waiting to leave.
“大约有十几个从船上下来的确诊患者，我们一直在候船室等着，这里非常冷，也没有人为我们做任何的说明，好希望能看到多一点情报。
"We've been waiting in the waiting room for about a dozen confirmed patients coming down from the ship. It's very cold here, and no one has given us any information.
” 在候船室足足等待有一个半小时之后，这位美国乘客与另外两位患者一同坐上救护车，被送往日本埼玉县的一家医疗机构。
After a full hour and a half in the waiting room, the American passenger was taken in an ambulance with two other patients to a medical institution in Saitama Prefecture, Japan.
车程足足花了三个小时。
It took three hours by car.
美籍夫妻Kent和Rebecca其中一人被确诊新型肺炎Rebecca今年35岁，和丈夫Kent一起登船旅游，2月7日被诊断出新型肺炎而下船，和她朝夕相处的Kent则在船上隔离。
One of the American couples, Kent and Rebecca, 35, was diagnosed with pneumonia Rebecca, 35, boarded the ship with her husband Kent, was diagnosed with new pneumonia on February 7, and Kent, her old companion, was isolated from the ship.
“我没有明显的病征，但是会咳嗽，从接获通知到送往医院大概一个多小时。
"I don't have any obvious symptoms but I cough and it's about an hour from the time I get the call to the hospital.
” Rebecca每天拍摄视频纪录就医生活，她提到在日本医院什么都要钱，虽然病房内有电视，冰箱，但电器都不能使用，除非有额外买卡充值；浴室里没有毛巾，如果需要的话也得付费，让她非常惊讶 “医院的待遇还比船上差。
Rebecca, who takes daily video recordings of medical treatment, says she asks for money for everything in Japanese hospitals. Even though there are televisions and refrigerators in the wards, electrical appliances will not work unless additional credit cards are available; there are no towels in the bathroom and she has to pay for them if necessary.
”Rebecca在日本医院的病房中观察夫妻俩现在每天会通视频电话，Kent说自从太太下船后，就没有人来消毒过他们同住的房间，他觉得自己迟早也会被感染上病毒。
Rebecca, who watches the couple's daily video calls in hospital wards in Japan, said no one had decontaminated their shared room since his wife got off the ship, and he thought he'd be infected sooner or later.
两人虽被分开，但还是乐观面对现状，Kent还幽默地跟太太炫耀自己被困在游轮上，还收到可乐，简直能高兴一整天。
Though separated, they were optimistic about the situation, and Kent had the good sense to show off to his wife that he was stranded on a cruise ship and was getting Coke.
Kent也在视频中说，现在船上每个人每天都自己量体温，出现异常就要通报，但他认为，应该由工作人员统一量体温才对，避免有乘客担心下船后的待遇更差而隐匿自己的身体状况。
'Everyone on the ship now has their own body temperature taken every day, 'he said.' But he thinks it's up to the crew to take a uniform temperature, so that no one can hide their health for fear of getting off the ship for worse treatment.
游轮上，每位乘客心中最大的焦虑就是“互相隔离真的会抑制感染吗？会不会下一个确诊的就是我”，随着每日确诊病例的增加，待在房间隔离的乘客也越来越不安，游轮上3711个人成为中国大陆以外群聚感染最严重的区域，他们面临的处境包括：1. 船上医疗人员不足。
The biggest worry for every passenger on a cruise ship is "Will isolation really inhibit infection? Will it be me?" As the number of confirmed cases daily increases, so will the number of passengers staying in quarantine, with 3,711 people on cruise ships becoming the most heavily infected area outside mainland China.
乘客反应出现发烧，想要就医，但医务室里全部挤满人，生病的乘客看诊需等待三小时，若被认定情况轻微，还是得继续回到房间隔离。
Passengers reacted with fever and sought medical attention, but the infirmary was full of people, and sick passengers had to wait three hours to see them and, if found to be in a mild condition, to return to their rooms for isolation.
2. 房间封闭。
The room is closed.
船舱空气不流通且干燥，除了少部分带阳台的房型，更多的是不能开窗透气的房间，甚至还有人是住在低楼层的内舱房。
The cabin is airless and dry, except for a small number of balcony-style rooms, more can not open the window ventilation room, and even people live on the lower floors of the interior cabin.
3. 房间无法每日清洁。
The room can't be cleaned everyday.
工作人员暂停房务后，乘客只能自己打扫、替换被单，无法进行消毒。
After the staff suspended the room service, passengers can only clean, replace the sheets themselves, can not be disinfected.
4. 资讯传达不清。
4. Miscommunication of information.
即便船长每日会广播三次，但信息量难以及时更新，加上游轮网络信号不稳，无法实时了解游轮和外界的最新情报，令人很是焦虑。
Even though the ship's captain broadcasts three times a day, the volume of information is difficult to update in a timely manner, and the instability of cruise ship network signals that do not allow real-time access to the latest information from cruise ships and the outside world is a cause for concern.
5. 语言隔阂。
Language barriers.
船上乘客多为日本人，也有欧美游客、中国香港台湾地区人等，沟通不易。
The passengers are mostly Japanese, tourists from Europe and the United States, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan region, communication is not easy.
6. 常备品大量消耗。
6. High level of stock consumption.
乘客中大部分为老年人，需要大量降血压或是血糖等药剂，原本都是准备游船行程的使用量，现在临时被隔离，加上部分外籍乘客需要的药品，在日本难以取得，成了最大麻烦。
The temporary isolation of passengers, most of whom are elderly and need large doses of medicines such as blood pressure or blood sugar to prepare for cruise itineraries, together with some of the medicines needed by foreign passengers, have become the most troublesome in Japan.
2月11日起，日本政府组成疫情预防小组上船调查，并补给500人份的药品，药品将优先提供给有紧急需求或有严重疾病的乘客。
On 11 February, the Government of Japan formed an epidemic prevention team to board the vessel and resupply 500 people with medicines, which will be given priority to passengers in urgent need or suffering from serious diseases.
2月12日，公告的确诊数据中，一名日本检疫人员也确诊了，他2月3日登船发放问卷，当时戴了口罩和手套，疑似因为没戴护目镜和穿全身防护衣而被感染。
On February 12, a Japanese quarantine official also confirmed the diagnosis when he boarded the questionnaire on February 3, wearing a mask and gloves and suspected to have been infected because he did not wear goggles and full-length protective clothing.
2月13日，日本政府基于人道考量，决定先让高龄、有其他病症的患者优先下船，但随着在船内感染病例逐渐增加，日本政府压力也越来越大。
On February 13, the Japanese government decided, on humanitarian grounds, to let elderly patients with other medical conditions get off the ship first, but the pressure on the Japanese government grew as the number of onboard infections increased.
以日本人口1.2亿来看，全国的负压隔离病房卻只有1800床，以现在游轮上确诊病患都在当地医院治疗的情况下，若未来确诊人数超过500人、甚至1000人的话，势必会对日本医疗形成负担，目前东京附近的神奈川、埼玉、千叶等地，已经有部分医院人力吃紧。
With a population of 120 million, the nation's vacuum isolation wards number only 1,800. With more than 500, or even 1,000, confirmed cases from cruise ships now being treated in local hospitals, some hospitals are already stretched to the limit in Kanagawa, Saitama and Chiba, near Tokyo.
2月14日，日本政府碍于人道考量，安排有基础疾病，且状况危及的高龄者下船，一位咳血的85岁台湾乘客，和儿子同住封闭舱房，他多次咳嗽却因没发烧不能做检测，两人隔离期间多次向外求助，最后这名85岁乘客终于在14日下船治疗，随后被确诊新型肺炎，他的儿子则在游轮上继续隔离。
A 85-year-old Taiwanese passenger who coughed with his son in a closed cabin. He coughed several times but could not be tested for fever. The 85-year-old passenger finally disembarked on February 14 and was later diagnosed with new pneumonia. His son continued to be quarantined on a cruise ship.
在钻石公主号上的游客，过半数都是超过60岁的老年人，除了自身有糖尿病、高血压外，抵抗力也偏弱，隔离期间，营养失衡也无法外出走动，缺乏运动之下，老年乘客的身体状况又比较差，若有稍微出现症状，最好能尽早治疗。
More than half of the tourists aboard the Princess are over 60 years of age. Apart from diabetes and high blood pressure, their resistance is weak, they are unable to walk outside their homes during isolation, lack of exercise and poor physical health of elderly passengers. Early treatment is desirable in the event of mild symptoms.
“海上孤岛式”隔离，虽然可以防止疫情继续蔓延，却也引来全球和部分日本国内人士质疑。
"Isle-of-the-sea" isolation, while preventing the disease from spreading, has raised questions both globally and in parts of Japan.
日本的船务代理专员关家一树认为，船舶沿岸隔离是15世纪时，威尼斯为了防范鼠疫而开始采取的对策，但放在现今，隔离者的人权也是现代政府必须关注的重点，如果全员隔离，恐怕有未审先判的疑虑。
Shipyashi Guan, Japan's shipping agency commissioner, believes that ship-coast quarantining was the response that Venice began to take in the 15th century to prevent the plague, but that today, the human rights of the isolated people are also the focus of modern governments, and if segregated, there is a fear of trial without trial.
隔离日期结束前，钻石公主号上确诊人数估计还会持续攀升，因为这些乘客和船员们并未入境登陆日本，所以究竟这艘船上的确诊病例该算谁的？目前日本政府已向世界卫生组织WHO提案，把游轮乘客的病例另外计算，而非纳入日本确诊病例，以免引来日本疫情恶化的现象，影响观光经济。
Before the end of the quarantine period, the number of confirmed cases on board the Princess Diamond will likely continue to climb because the passengers and crew did not land in Japan, so the Japanese government has proposed to the World Health Organization to calculate the number of cases on board the ship separately, rather than including confirmed cases in Japan, so as not to lead to a worsening of the epidemic and affect the tourist economy.
即便日本政府也想尽快进行全船的大规模检疫，但船上人数众多，恐怕隔离日期结束前，都还无法完成，因此只能先确保乘客身心健康，消除不安，尽可能加强船上医疗资源和居住环境，让乘客平安下船，以结束这场海上噩梦。
Even if the Japanese government wants to have a full-scale quarantine of the ship as soon as possible, the number of people on board is too large to be completed until the quarantine date, so we have to ensure the physical and psychological well-being of passengers, eliminate uneasiness, maximize the medical resources and living environment on board and allow passengers to disembark safely.
而距离那一刻，还有5天。
And five days from that moment.
▼。
Why don't we do it?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
豪华游轮变海外第一疫区，仅仅用了10天。
It took only 10 days for a luxury cruise ship to become the No. 1 spot overseas.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "豪华游轮变海外第一疫区，仅仅用了10天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
