非典幸存医护者现状：不是说不会忘了我们吗？/* declared */。
The Status of SARS Survivors: Does it not mean we won't be forgotten? / * Declared * /.
非典幸存医护者现状：不是说不会忘了我们吗？<br>。
Status of SARS survivors: Not to have forgotten us? & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
| title       = 非典幸存医护者现状：不是说不会忘了我们吗？。
Not that we will not be forgotten. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
非典幸存医护者现状：不是说不会忘了我们吗？。
Status of SARS Survivors: Not That We Will Not Be Forgotten?
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
Play每天一条独家原创视频《SARS背影——非典后遗症人群纪实》，是2006年至2009年间，摄影师张立洁拍摄的系列照片。
An exclusive original daily video, "SARS Behind the Sars -- Facts About Sars," is a series of photos taken by photographer Zhang Lijie between 2006 and 2009.
她去了废弃的小汤山非典定点医院，走访了数十个非典后遗症患者，试图用影像，记录下这群逐渐被忘却的人。
She went to the abandoned SARS designated hospital in Xiaotangshan, visited dozens of SARS patients and tried to record them by image.
非典后遗症患者其中，很多是“因公感染”的医护人员，因为非典后遗症，他们失去了工作的能力，长期接受治疗，有些人失去了爱情或婚姻，最严重的家庭，9口人全部感染非典，14天内去世了4个……这些“非典幸存者们“，转瞬沦为残疾、偏见、失业、贫穷的受害者。
Many of the SARS sequelae are "work-related" health-care workers who lost their ability to work because of the after-effects of SARS, long-term treatment, some of them lost love or marriage, the most severe family, all 9 people were infected with SARS, and 4 died within 14 days.
非典后遗症患者张立洁说：“当未知病毒侵袭人类的时候，我们采取了不讲条件的‘全民动员’的方式将风险分摊于社会成员。
"When unknown viruses invade people, we spread the risk among the members of society in a non-conditional 'national mobilization' approach," said Zhang Lijie, a SARS sequela patient.
当危机过后，那些曾经恪尽职守，在最危急的关头做出牺牲的人们，有没有得到精神上的抚慰？那些被无辜感染的普通人，有没有得到全社会的理解和实实在在的物质帮助？非典过后，我们做得并不好，但这一次，我希望能够有所改变。
When the crisis was over, did those who had done their duty and made sacrifices at the most critical junctures get emotional reassurance? Did the innocent common people get understanding and real material help? After SARS, we didn't do well, but this time, I hope something will change.
”自述张立洁  编辑倪楚娇张立洁我是张立洁，之前长期就职于《中国残疾人》杂志社。
Self-described Zhang Lijie editor Ni Chu Jiao Zhang Lijie I was Zhang Lijie, long before working in the China Disabled People magazine.
2003年非典的时候，我快大学毕业，那年我们都躲在宿舍里，没有答辩。
When SARS broke out in 2003, when I was graduating from college, we all hid in the dorm room without a reply.
非典结束没多久，《南方周末》11月的头版刊登了一张照片，是一群在高压舱里做康复治疗的医护人员，他们都有非典后遗症。
Not long after SARS ended, Southern Weekend ran a picture on the front page in November of a group of medical staff doing rehabilitation treatment in a high-pressure capsule, all with SARS sequelae.
这是我第一次听说“非典后遗症”，觉得神神秘秘的。
This is the first time I have heard of "SARS sequelae," feel mysterious.
小汤山疗养院内初访小汤山疗养院2006年末，我偶然跟着残奥冠军平亚丽去了一次小汤山。
Xiaotangshan sanatorium first visit Xiaotangshan sanatorium in late 2006, I accidentally followed Paralympic champion Pingali to a small Tangshan.
那时的北京小汤山疗养院里，住着正在进行康复治疗的非典后遗症患者，他们都是“因公感染”的医护人员。
At the time, the Beijing Xiaotangshan sanatorium housed recovering SARS patients, all of whom were "work-related".
但当时，都已经停止了原有岗位的工作，“全职”治疗。
But by then, they had stopped working in their jobs, "full-time" treatment.
绝大部分人都有严重的骨坏死症状，以及一些其他的后遗症，如肺纤维化、高血压等。
Most people have severe osteonecrosis and other sequelae, such as pulmonary fibrosis and hypertension.
小汤山疗养院内他们对台上平亚丽说的“身残志坚”的故事没什么兴趣，彼此之间也不说话，整个状态闷闷的。
They were not interested in the story of "the body and the backbone" told by Pingyali on stage. They did not talk to each other.
反而是报告结束以后，他们就抓住卫生局的工作人员，或者残联的人赶紧问：“我去哪能够买残摩？”“我这个报销的问题怎么解决？”我没想到，他们在意的是这么实际的东西。
Instead, when the report was over, they grabbed the HB staff, or the FIMITIC, and asked, "Where can I buy the remnant?" "How can I solve this reimbursement problem?" I didn't think they cared about something so practical.
于是，我悄悄留下了坐在我附近的几个人的手机号码。
So I quietly left the phone number of a few people sitting near me.
《SARS背影——非典后遗症人群纪实》这组照片，就是这么开始的。
"SARS back-up - SARS sequelae of the people" series of photos, is the beginning of this series.
小汤山疗养院内歧视与偏见我第一个联络的对象是一个女护士长，她曾经在某大医院的妇产科工作，因为接触非典病人的医疗物品而被感染。
Discrimination and Prejudice in the Xiaotangshan Sanatorium My first contact was with a female head nurse who worked in an obstetrics and gynecology department at a major hospital and was infected by medical supplies from SARS patients.
对于采访，她患得患失的心态极具代表性，既希望有人关注，又怕关注多了，医院不满意，给她停药。
For the interview, she suffered a loss of mentality is very representative, both hope for attention, but also afraid of a lot of attention, hospital dissatisfaction, give her stop medicine.
后来，她打来电话说儿子找到女朋友了，希望不要再公开她的照片，为了儿子她不想再提了。
Later, she called and said her son had found a girlfriend. She wanted not to reveal her picture any more. She didn't want to mention it for her son.
这些非典时期冲在第一线的英雄人物，从骨干变为毫无用处的包袱，人生轨迹被彻底改变，他们没有得到掌声和赞美，反而不得不活在歧视和无力改变的经济困境之中。
These heroes in the front line of the SARS epidemic have gone from being the backbone to the useless burden, and the trajectory of life has been transformed from one of applause and praise to one of discrimination and powerlessness in the face of economic hardship.
伤疤非典刚来的时候，医护人员都不知道这种类型感冒的严重性，只戴着薄薄的一层纸口罩而已。
When SARS first arrived, doctors and nurses were unaware of the seriousness of this type of cold, wearing only a thin layer of paper masks.
1981年出生的护士廖颖就是受害者之一，感染时她正在北大医院急诊当班，是最年轻的非典后遗症患者之一。
One of the victims was Liao Ying, a nurse born in 1981, who was on emergency duty at Peking University Hospital at the time of the infection, one of the youngest after-effects of SARS.
她偶尔会到小汤山疗养院接受治疗。
Occasionally she went to the Xiaotangshan sanatorium for treatment.
泡温泉是缓解骨坏死病痛最好的方法之一，同时还能在浮力的帮助下锻炼肌肉，防止萎缩。
Soaking hot springs is one of the best ways to relieve osteonecrosis, and it can also help exercise muscles and prevent atrophy.
那天我去得早，廖颖和病友武震刚泡完温泉要换衣服，我说你们先别换，我马上过去。
That day I went early, Liao Ying and her sick friend Wuzhen just after the hot spring to change clothes, I said you do not change, I will soon go.
我就赶快从她们病房跑到后面的温泉房。
I hurried from their ward to the back spa.
我知道她们身上有伤疤，以前也看过，但是一直没有合适的机会拍。
I know they have scars, I've seen them before, but I haven't had a chance to photograph them.
她们的病症在骨头上，都是肉眼看不见的，但惟独腿上的两道伤疤是一种明证。
Their symptoms are invisible to the naked eye on bones, but only two scars on their legs are evidence of this.
她们两个都做了试验性的骨头填充手术。
Both underwent experimental bone-filling operations.
武震的术后效果很不好，不但填进去的骨头塌了，而且还感染了。
Wushen after the surgery is very bad, not only filled in the bone collapsed, but also infected.
武震武震原来是北京花乡医院内科护士。
Wu Zhen Wu Zhen was originally Beijing Huaxiang Hospital medical nurse.
非典期间，她刚好在北京大学人民医院实习，接诊病人的时候感染了SARS。
During SARS, she happened to be an intern at Peking University's People's Hospital and contracted SARS while receiving patients.
她因为是实习，不能算是正式员工，所以在工伤认定、报销上都发生了一些纠结。
Because she is an internship, can not be regarded as regular staff, so in the recognition of work-related injuries, reimbursement of a number of disputes.
她当时有男朋友，后来因为这个腿的问题，她男朋友的妈妈就说：“先看看吧，看看以后能不能走路再说吧。
"She had a boyfriend, but because of this leg problem, her boyfriend's mother said," Let's see first and see if we can walk later.
”很现实的问题，能不能走路，直接决定了人家能不能跟你继续相处。
The real question is whether walking will directly determine whether people will be able to continue with you.
针对股骨头坏死的治疗股骨头坏死：不死的癌症小汤山疗养院里的日子和养老院差不多，会伴随一些治疗，有高压氧仓、按摩、针灸、游泳、spa、温泉等设施。
Treatment of osteonecrosis of the femoral head: The life in the deathless cancer home in Xiaotangshan is similar to that in a nursing home, with some treatment, including hyperbaric chambers, massage, acupuncture, swimming, spa, hot springs, etc.
要治疗多久？效果如何？未来怎么样？当时谁也不知道。
How long will it take to heal? How effective is it? What about the future? No one knows then.
在医学界，股骨头坏死被称为“不死的癌症”。
In medicine, necrosis of the femoral head is called "cancer that does not die."
“人的股骨头就像个圆球，当它发生缺血性坏死后，圆球就不圆了，再也不能转动自如。
"A person's femoral head is like a ball. When it becomes ischemic, the ball becomes less round and cannot rotate easily.
股骨头坏掉40%后，圆球就不能用了，它会产生塌陷，这一塌就坏了。
When the head of the femur is damaged by 40%, the ball becomes unusable. It collapses and collapses.
”北京宣武医院骨科主任沈惠良在接受《新京报》采访的时候这样解释。
Shen Huiliang, the orthopaedic director of Beijing Xuanwu Hospital, told the Beijing News.
我的受访者们这样形容：“你活多久，你就要受多久的痛苦。
My interviewees described it as "how long you live, how long you suffer.
治这儿了那儿坏了，治那儿这儿坏了，没完没了。
It's broken down here. It's broken down there. There's no end of it.
”“发作的时候，就跟骨头里长刺一样，连床都不敢沾。
'When I was in a fit, as with a thorn in the bone, I dared not touch the bed.
”岳春河自我救赎面对这么大的落差，每个人的接受程度都不同。
Yue Chunhe's self-redemption faced such a wide gap that everyone had a different degree of acceptance.
岳春河是同仁医院的外科大夫。
Yue Chunhe is a surgeon at Tongren Hospital.
外科大夫啊，往往是最优秀的一批人。
Surgeons are often the best people.
我前后两次见他，简直判若两人。
I saw him before and after twice, it was totally different.
之前他是有很多埋怨、牢骚的，说话也很直，很不客气。
Before he was a lot of complaints, grumbles, also very straight, very polite.
但是当我后来约他拍照片时，他不但变瘦了，人也精神了，更主要的是他的想法完全变了。
But when I asked him to take a picture later, not only did he become thinner, but he was also mentally refreshed and, above all, his mind changed completely.
他好像挺爱看书的，后来他就在家做饭、接送孩子。
He seemed to love reading, and then he cooked at home and picked up the children.
我感觉他好像从哲学精神层面帮自己解脱了，他变得感恩了，他甚至感谢这个病，让他停下了匆忙的脚步。
I felt as if he had freed himself from the spiritual side of philosophy, that he had become grateful, and even thanked him for the illness, which had stopped him from rushing.
我特别喜欢他在日记里写的一段话：“苍天在人们前行的路上，用单向透明玻璃将幸福的人与苦难的人分隔开……痛苦的人虽步履艰难，但他们不仅能品尝人生的痛苦，也能看到快乐是什么样子。
I particularly liked the passage he wrote in his diary: "Heaven separates the happy from the miserable on the road they take... The miserable man walks hard, but they can not only taste the pain of life, but also see what happiness is like.
从某种意义上说，不幸的人生更加丰富。
In a sense, an unhappy life is richer.
”非典后遗症患者“不是说不会忘了我们吗？”这些“因公感染”的医务人员，其实还不是最惨的。
Those who suffer from SARS sequelae "don't say they won't forget us?" These "work-related infections" of medical staff are not the worst.
他们有工伤的判定，生活上是有一定保障的。
They have an industrial injury judgment, life is a certain degree of protection.
但社会上的一些非典后遗症者就不同了。
But some of the social sequelae of SARS are different.
当年有些人只是去医院拿个药，就感染了非典。
Some people just went to the hospital to get a drug, they became infected with SARS.
没有人能为他们这无辜感染，给个什么说法，所以他们觉得特别冤。
No one can give a name for their innocent infection, so they feel particularly wronged.
即便是换了关节，也不能负重、不能爬楼，勉强可以生活自理，他们感觉完全就被落下了。
Even if they changed their joints, they could not bear the weight, could not climb the stairs, and could barely support themselves. They felt completely left behind.
我拍照的时候，有一个受访者对我说了一句话让我印象很深刻：“不是说，不会忘了我们吗？可是我们疼得下不了床的时候，大家人呢？”时间在慢慢冲淡人们对SARS的恐怖记忆，非典五周年之际正值5.12地震、2008年北京奥运会举办之际，人们无暇顾及。
When I took my picture, I was struck by a single interviewee who said, "No, I won't forget us? But when it hurts too much to get out of bed, everyone?" Time slowly slimmed down memories of SARS, and the fifth anniversary of SARS coincided with the May 12 earthquake and the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
吴如欣2003年5月，吴如欣被诊断出急性骨坏死和肺纤维化。
Wu Ruoxin was diagnosed with acute osteonecrosis and pulmonary fibrosis in May 2003.
由于家庭财产纠纷，她和80岁的老母亲被赶出家门，每个月2000元的收入，看病都不够，只能借债度日。
As a result of a family property dispute, she and her 80-year-old mother were evicted from their home with an income of 2,000 yuan per month.
她在照片里抱着一条狗，用狗的体温热敷，起到类似狗皮膏药的作用，来缓解疼痛，又节约药费。
In the photo, she holds a dog, warms it with the dog's body temperature, acts as a pasteurizer, relieves pain and saves medicine.
许瑞琴许瑞琴的情况很复杂，她原来是医院急诊科管理护工的一个临时工，非典一来她也顶上去了，结果感染了，后来因为种种原因她的劳动合同就终止了。
The complicated situation of Xu Ruiqin, who was a temporary nurse in the emergency department of the hospital, came up with SARS and became infected, and her labor contract was terminated for a variety of reasons.
当时采访的时候，她的治疗、夫妻关系、金钱的压力……一切都让她焦头烂额。
At the time of the interview, her therapy, her relationship, the pressure of money... everything was bothering her.
一边是治疗不好的病情，一边是不可能打赢的官司。
On the one hand is the treatment of bad illness, on the other hand is impossible to win the case.
我要是她，我都不知道该怎么办。
If I were her, I wouldn't even know what to do.
张金萍1958年出生的张金萍，在治疗其他疾病的过程中感染了SARS病毒。
Zhang Jinping, born in 1958, contracted the SARS virus while treating other diseases.
非典痊愈后的第二天，她就出现了后遗症，她先是眼睛干涩，视力退化，随后呼吸急促，心脑血管也出现问题。
The day after she recovered from SARS, she developed sequelae, first dry eyes, impaired vision, then shortness of breath, heart and brain blood vessels.
她整天整天地靠在床角，没有表情，也不说话。
All day long she had been leaning against the corner of the bed, without expression or speech.
因为疾病，她不能工作。
She is unable to work because of illness.
女儿也因为脑瘤手术导致偏瘫，一家人全靠丈夫养活。
The daughter also suffered from hemiplegia due to brain tumor surgery, and the family is totally dependent on her husband.
看不到希望的时候，她会说，她不想等到眼睛失明之后，连自杀的门都找不着了。
When there was no hope, she would say, she did not want to wait until her eyes went blind and she could not find the door to suicide.
刘秀芬生命的无常，在拍这组照片的时候感觉特别强烈。
Liu Xiufen's fickleness of life, in this set of photographs when the feeling is particularly strong.
很多家庭都是全家人交叉感染，“完了，家里这事儿大了”都是这种感觉。
A lot of families are cross-infected, "over, this is a big family thing" is the feeling.
家里一下摆了3、4个人的遗像。
There were three or four portraits of people in the house.
刘秀芬家中共有9人患非典，她和丈夫都因照顾家人感染非典，丈夫死了，她活了下来。
Liu Xiufen's family of nine people suffered from SARS, she and her husband took care of the family infected with SARS, her husband died, she survived.
张伟这是张伟和他年近八十的老母亲，2003年母亲刚从非典的鬼门关闯了过来，就卧病在床。
Zhang Wei this is Zhang Wei and his old mother who is nearly 80 years old. In 2003, my mother came through the door of SARS and fell ill in bed.
张伟自己也有多处骨坏死，但他全天候照顾着母亲，喂饭、导尿、擦身……杨志霞“他去了趟厕所，就再也没起来”最近我在看武汉疫情的报道，有一个治愈的病人在描述患病时的场景，她说“喘不过气”来，我一下就想到，当年一个叫杨志霞的大姐的描述。
Zhang Wei has many bone necrosis himself, but he takes care of his mother all day long, feeding, urinating and wiping himself... "He went to the toilet and never got up again."
她和他弟弟在胸科医院抢救，住在两个相邻的房间。
She and his brother were rescued at the Chest Hospital and lived in two adjoining rooms.
夜里，她都能听见她弟弟在那儿，特别费劲喘气的声音。
At night, she could hear her brother there, breathing very hard.
在病房里，谁也不敢睡，困了病友间就聊一句，聊到天亮，就觉得又活过了一天。
In the ward, no one dare sleep, sleepy friends chat one sentence, chat until dawn, feel that another day alive.
她讲述当中的那种恐惧，那种黑暗，那种无助，我永远记得。
I shall always remember the fear, the darkness, the helplessness she told me.
她说她弟弟是1米8多的大个儿，就特别强壮的那种，最后是去了趟卫生间，就再也没有起来。
She said that her brother is more than 1.8 meters long, especially the kind of strong, finally went to the bathroom, never to get up again.
而她老公去世的时候，她都不知道，还是听到楼道里有人喊：“杨志霞，给你爱人火化了。
When her husband died, she did not know, or heard someone shouting: "Yang Zhixia, for you love cremation.
”她才知道的。
She knew nothing about it.
杨志霞共有9名亲人感染非典，其中4人死亡。
Yang Zhixia has nine relatives infected with SARS, four of whom died.
她当时就给我数：“4月21日、4月26日、5月1日、5月3日。
She gave me the numbers: April 21, April 26, May 1, May 3.
”14天，死了4个。
"Fourteen days, four dead.
她后来也是股骨头坏死，每个月只有900元收入，还有一个正在念书的儿子，承担不起治疗的费用，最后咬牙把儿子供出来了。
She also suffered from femoral head necrosis, earning only 900 yuan a month, and a son who was studying and could not afford treatment and finally gave up his son with his teeth.
非典后遗症患者很多人会打着“难受”、“残忍”的幌子而拒绝正视他们的存在。
Many people with SARS sequelae refuse to acknowledge their existence under the guise of "suffering" or "cruelty."
难道看不见就不存在了吗？跟他们相处，最开始会被怀疑，他们对记者没抱多大希望。
Can't you see it doesn't exist? With them, the first suspicion is that they do not have much hope for journalists.
但我一个外人，一直在问、不断地在拍，时间长了，他们就会觉得你是在努力做些什么的。
But I'm an outsider who keeps asking and filming, and as time goes on, they feel like you're trying to do something.
一个外人的同情和认可对他们来说是一种支持。
The sympathy and approval of an outsider is a support to them.
最开始的时候，我会觉得我跟人聊一遍，然后人家痛哭流涕的，其实相当于揭了一遍伤疤。
At the beginning, I felt like I was going to talk to someone, and then someone would cry, and it was like ripping open a scar.
但是后来我也在反复思考，可能摄影更多的是一个中间的环节。
But then I thought again and again, maybe photography is more of an intermediate link.
白岩松的节目，就是央视的《新闻1+1》，就是因为看到了我的照片，专门做了一期关于他们的报道，对于他们这个群体来说，是一个特别重要的转折点。
"Bai Yansong's program, CCTV's" News 1 + 1, "because I saw my photos, a special issue of their report, for their group, is a particularly important turning point.
小汤山非典定点医院张立洁在现场一切都不曾过去2009年5月，我去了一趟小汤山非典定点医院，这座医院当时是在7天内搭建而成的，被称为“小汤山奇迹”。
Xiao Tangshan SARS Ding Hospital Zhang Lijie on the scene everything has not passed in May 2009, I went to a small Tangshan SARS designated hospital, which was built in seven days, known as the "Xiaotangshan miracle.
当时周围已经矗立起别墅楼盘…… 仿佛一切已经过去。
At that time around has stood up villa buildings...... as if everything has passed.
荒草丛生。
The grass is overgrown.
病房里面很黑，没有任何光线。
It was dark in the ward and there was no light.
你能看到一些当时治疗扔下来的瓶子、罐子。
You can see some of the bottles and cans that were thrown from the treatment.
有一间病房，病床、床垫、被子、枕头还都在。
There was a ward with beds, mattresses, quilts and pillows.
经过几个春夏秋冬以后，野草已经从门外面像手一样伸进来了。
After several spring, summer, autumn and winter, the weeds had come in like hands from outside the door.
护士站那儿，有很多散落的档案。
The nurse stood there with lots of scattered files.
其中有一张X光片，上面特别清晰地写着2003年5月13号。
Among them was an X-ray, which said, inter alia, 13 May 2003.
你能看到一些纤维化的白色痕迹和片子上面尘土起的霉渍，形成了一个双重的效果。
You can see white marks of fibrosis and mildew on top of the film, creating a double effect.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%function showDivShare() {。
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% function showDivShare '{
