现在缺什么？缺自由|郭晶的捂汗风尘日记|2/12-2/15。
What's missing now? Not at least Guo Jing's sweaty diary; 2 / 12-2 / 15.
社工郭晶。
Social worker Guo Jingjing.
硝美丽                      。
A certain saltpetre.
硝美丽。
A certain saltpetre.
清新风味的女权硬核。
Fresh flavor of feminist hard core.
2月13日社区卫生服务中心外聊天的三个人（图片由郭晶提供）这是我的朋友郭晶的日记。
February 13 outside the community health service center chat three people (picture provided by Guo Jingjing) This is my friend Guo Jing's diary.
记录了封城期间在武汉独居的外地女性的真实生活体验和心理感受。
This paper records the real life experiences and psychological feelings of women living alone in Wuhan during the closure period.
这些文字见证了郭晶如何从适应突发危机到重建日常生活，再到尝试帮助他人的过程。
These words bear witness to how Guo Jing has moved from adapting to sudden crises to rebuilding her daily life to trying to help others.
想及时获得最新内容的朋友可以在微博上关注@社工郭晶。
Friends who want to get the latest content in time can pay attention to @ social worker Guo Jing on Weibo.
文末有郭晶的个人微信二维码，也可以申请添加。
At the end of the article there is Guo Jing's personal micromessage two-dimensional code, can also apply to add.
她每天会在朋友圈更新。
She updates in a circle of friends every day.
（但请不要找郭晶闲聊，以免增加她的负担。
But please don't burden Guo Jing by chatting with her.
）为了方便大家阅读，这个公号会大概每三四天集中搬运一次。
To make it easier for you to read, the official number will be moved centrally about every three or four days.
朋友问我现在缺什么，我没有任何思考，脱口而出，说：“缺自由”。
My friend asked me what I needed now. Without thinking, I blurted out, "Lack of freedom."
2月12日风尘之后，有个女权伙伴问我是否了解风尘中的家暴问题，她担心地说“如果女人受到家暴，Jing茶还会不会出警？她能否获得支持？”在封锁的城市里，一个女人遭受了家暴，一些认为这是家务事的Jing茶这个时候更加不愿意处理这样的案件。
After the dust on February 12, a feminist partner asked me if I knew about domestic violence in the dust, and she worried, "If a woman is a victim of domestic violence, will Jing tea get support?" In the blockaded city, a woman has suffered domestic violence, and some Jing tea, who sees it as a domestic issue, is more reluctant to deal with such cases.
受暴者此时也很难获得社会支持，社工机构也都没有上班。
Those who suffered violations also had difficulty accessing social support at this time, and the social work units were not at work.
她想离开家都是困难的，很难有人会收留她，没有交通也很难走远，酒店、旅舍也都没有营业。
It was difficult for her to leave her home, it was difficult for anyone to take her in, no traffic, no hotels, no hostels.
疫控时期只能步行逃离家暴的母亲和孩子（图：肖美丽）我的朋友L昨天说她弟妹的姐姐被家暴了。
My friend L said yesterday that her sister-in-law had been the victim of domestic violence.
女方和男方已经离婚，他们有两个孩子，平时一人抚养一个。
The woman and the man are divorced, they have two children, and one is raised alone.
春节前，男方跪在女方的面前求她跟他一起过年，孩子也很想一起过年，在一旁哭，女方就去了男方家过年。
Before the Spring Festival, the man kneels in front of his wife to beg her to spend the New Year with him. The children also want to celebrate the New Year together.
昨天女方被打后就拉着行李带着两个孩子坚决地离开了男方家。
After she was beaten yesterday, she left her husband's home with her luggage and two children.
女方想来L家，可是她们都不在一个县城。
She wanted to come to the L's, but none of them were in a county town.
因为风尘，进出县城和村子都要开证明，L担心她出不了县城，也担心女方所在的县城不认可证明，出了现在所在的县城就回不去了。
Because of the dust, in and out of the county and villages have to be issued a certificate, L fear that she can not leave the county, but also fear that the county where the woman is not recognized certificate, out of the county can not go back.
L和家人一边去开证明，一边让女方报警。
L and her family went to the police and asked her to call the police.
女方报jing后，Jing茶并没有出jing，只是说可以让L和家人去接女方和孩子。
Jing, Jing tea, can be used to pick up the woman and her children.
但男方家里离两个县城的边界也很远。
But the man's home is also far from the boundary between the two counties.
汽车不能上路，L和家人只得联系男方让他骑三轮车追上女方和孩子，把她们送到两个县的交界处。
The car couldn't go on the road, so L and his family had to contact him and have him ride a tricycle to catch her and her children and take them to the junction of the two counties.
最终，L和家人开了一个证明，可以开车去接女方。
Eventually, L and her family issued a certificate that she could be picked up by car.
他们接到女方时，她和两个孩子已经走路走了4、5个小时了。
When they received her, she and her two children had been walking for four or five hours.
昨天的晚餐是蒜苔炒肉加稀饭。
Yesterday's dinner was minced garlic and porridge.
晚上和朋友们聊天。
Talk to friends in the evening.
有人白天看了电影，有人看了书，有人下了K歌软件在K歌。
Some people watch movies during the day, others read books, and some people put the K song software in the K.
我们聊到这两天新闻里很多并不富裕的老人捐款的事情，比如一个退休环卫工将自己多年攒下的十万积蓄都捐了，卡上只剩13.78。
We talked about two days of donations from less affluent seniors, such as a retired sanitation worker who donated 100, 000 of his savings over the years, leaving only 13.78 on his card.
我们都感到心酸，而非感动。
We are all sad, not moved.
他们的捐款会被合理的分配吗？社会配得上他们的捐赠吗？如果有一天他们生病了，社会保障系统能保证他们获得医疗救治和照顾吗？有人怀疑这个新闻是故意引导人们捐钱，但很多人不是不愿意捐钱，而是在意钱捐给谁。
Will their donations be properly distributed? Will society be worthy of their donations? If they get sick one day, will the social security system guarantee them access to medical treatment and care? Some suspect that the news is deliberately designed to induce people to donate money, but many are not unwilling to do so.
捐出毕生积蓄的退休环卫工我们就聊到老年的话题。
Giving away our lifetime savings as a retired sanitation worker brings us to the subject of old age.
有人说：“在农村，老年人的社交圈主要是亲戚和邻居。
It has been said that in rural areas, the social circle of the elderly is mainly relatives and neighbors.
”有人说：我外婆生活在城市里，经常去领免费的保健品，她比较精明，就只领免费的保健品，但有很多老人就会被骗。
Someone said: My grandmother lived in the city and often went to get free health care products. She was shrewd and received only free health care products, but many old people were deceived.
”老年人的社交圈会因退休而变窄，但老年人仍然有社交需要。
Older people's social networks may shrink with retirement, but older people still have social needs.
有人提到杭州有人在自己的房子里招租，和别的老年人一起生活，会有生活习惯不同的问题、沟通不畅的问题。
Some people mentioned that Hangzhou people in their own house rent, and live with other elderly people, there will be different living habits, communication problems.
可是我们现在和别人合租也会出现同样的问题，这就是日常生活的磕磕绊绊。
But we now share rent with other people will have the same problem, which is the stumbling of daily life.
我们对老年人的了解和认识比较少，通常想象中的老年人是没有精气神的，和社会脱节的。
We have less knowledge and understanding of the elderly, usually imagine that the elderly are not energetic, and out of touch with society.
事实上，“老年”也需要被重新定义。
Indeed, "old age" also needs to be redefined.
年龄在不同人身上的体现会有差异，农村人更容易老，因为很多人做体力活，且长年累月在外面晒。
Age can vary from person to person, and people in rural areas are more likely to age, as many do manual work and spend many years outside the sun.
遗憾的是，由于劳动力相对过剩，城市中的老年人在达到退休年龄后很难再找到工作。
Unfortunately, due to a relative surplus of labour, older persons in urban areas find it difficult to find work after reaching retirement age.
但很多老年人不愿只是困在家里，他们尽可能地扩展自己的生活，很多老年人跳广场舞，有一定经济条件的开始四处旅游。
But many older people do not want to just stay at home, they expand their lives as much as possible, many elderly people dance in the plaza, there are certain economic conditions to start traveling around.
2月12日立扫把（图片由肖美丽提供）昨天朋友圈很多人发了立扫把的视频，因为有人传“NASA说因为今天地球完美的重力角度，是唯一一天可以让扫把独自站立的日子。
2007-9-25 21: 23 Feb. 12 (Photo by Xiao Mei) A lot of people in the circle of friends yesterday showed a broom because of rumors that "NASA says today because of the Earth's perfect gravity, it's the only day on which a broom can stand alone.
”朋友说一开始也有点怀疑，可是试了一下成功了就觉得很神奇。
"My friend said he was a little skeptical at first, but it was amazing to try and succeed.
扫把能够立住取决于扫把本身的情况，任何物体越重越宽，站立的机会就越大。
The broom can stand up depending on the broom itself. The heavier and wider any object, the better its chances of standing.
这种消息平常也有人信，但现在大家都比较闲，更有时间和好奇心试一下。
This kind of news is also commonly believed, but now everybody is more leisurely, has more time and curiosity to try.
因为昨天捂汗开始对所有小区封闭管理，本来想着今天继续出门了解情况，我都想了很多理由。
Because yesterday covering sweat began to all the small area closed management, would like to continue to go out today to understand the situation, I think a lot of reasons.
今天起来的时候感到特别疲惫，做运动本来会让人醒神，但我是迷迷糊糊地做完了运动。
Today, when I wake up feeling particularly tired, doing exercise would have made me awake, but I finished the exercise in a daze.
早上是阴天，我更加没有出门的动力，就给自己放了个假。
Morning is cloudy, I do not go out of the motivation, put their own leave.
074热线最近接到两个关于性侵的咨询，我和伙伴对个案做了一些讨论和分析。
Hotline 074 recently received two enquiries about sexual assault, and my partners and I had some discussion and analysis of the cases.
我短暂地回到了往常的生活。
I returned briefly to my usual life.
阳光不知道什么时候出来的。
The sun never knows when it will come out.
下午5点钟，我望向窗外，外面阳光很好，对面的楼有人晒被子，楼下有一家人像是刚从超市回来，从车上拿下了好几袋东西。
At five o'clock in the afternoon, I looked out of the window, the sun was shining brightly in the building across the street, and a family downstairs seemed to have just returned from the supermarket and removed several bags from it.
2月12日窗外的阳光（图片由郭晶提供）人与人之间的信任不断地被消耗，恐慌却在被加强。
The sun outside the window Feb. 12 (picture provided by Guo Jing) The trust between people is constantly being eroded, but panic is building up.
而很多人需要帮助的时候，社区工作人员、穿制服的人都成了无能者。
And when many people need help, community workers, men in uniform, become incompetent.
2月13日有人问我现在写日记和我以往所做的助人工作之间的差别。
On February 13th I was asked about the difference between writing a diary now and the work I did to help others in the past.
这是很有趣的问题，两者之间的区别在于我是捂汗风尘的亲历者。
This is a very interesting question, the difference between the two is that I am covered with sweat and dust experience.
以往的工作中，我做的是支持她人的工作，尽管我对她们遭遇的性别歧视和性别暴力有一定的了解，但我始终不是亲历者。
In the past, I have supported her work, and although I have some knowledge of the gender discrimination and gender-based violence they encounter, I have never been a first-hand witness.
而现在我依然是一个行动者，同时也是一个亲历者。
And now I'm still an actor and a witness.
我在向别人讲述我所了解的捂汗，我也在讲述在捂汗的我。
I'm talking to others about the sweat I know, and I'm covering myself with sweat.
这个讲述必然要有一定程度的自我暴露，暴露我的无力，我的疲惫，我的愤怒，我的挣扎和抵抗。
This narrative must have some degree of self-disclosure, exposing my weakness, my exhaustion, my anger, my struggles and resistance.
公开讲述还必然引来审视和评论。
Public narration also leads inevitably to scrutiny and comment.
可那些性别歧视和性别暴力的受害者在公开讲述自己的经历的时候也在面临这些问题，可她们中很多人依然选择了讲述。
But victims of gender discrimination and gender-based violence also face these problems when speaking out about their experiences, but many of them still choose to tell.
这是不容易的事情，我尽力保持真诚。
It's not easy. I try to be sincere.
昨天的晚餐是莴笋炒肉加稀饭。
Yesterday's dinner was roasted lettuce and porridge.
晚上和朋友们聊天。
Talk to friends in the evening.
有人白天去喂猫，有人买了食物送给在村口关卡值班的人，有人在看司法考试的视频。
Cats were fed during the day, food was bought for those on duty at the village gates, and people were watching videos of the judicial examination.
我们讲到冲突。
We speak of conflict.
大家都很害怕面对冲突，尤其是暴力冲突，有人无法承受冲突中的失控感，有人会感到暴力的威胁，有人在冲突面前充满了无力感。
Everyone is afraid to face conflict, especially violent conflict, where there is a sense of loss of control, a feeling of violence and a sense of powerlessness in the face of conflict.
好几个人讲到小时候被家暴的经历，有人经历的暴力是失控的暴力，打她的爸爸情绪捉摸不透，这让她感到害怕和无力；有人经历的是“理性的暴力”，家长会因为孩子没有吃完饭、没有按时睡觉就打她，这让她总是小心翼翼地想自己是不是做错了什么。
Several spoke of being subjected to domestic violence as a child, of uncontrolled violence experienced by her father, of fear and powerlessness; of "rational violence" experienced by parents who beat their children because they did not finish their meal or go to bed on time, which led them to think carefully about what they had done wrong.
小时候，面对暴力，我们只能蜷缩在角落。
When we were young, we had to curl up in the corner in the face of violence.
可是，现在我们成年了，我们中依然有人说在面对暴力冲突的时候不知道怎么做，像是被冻住了。
But now that we are adults, some of us still say that we don't know what to do in the face of violent conflict.
很多女性在被性骚扰的那一刻也会冻住，一下子懵了，不知道如何反应。
Many women in the moment of sexual harassment will also freeze, suddenly stunned, do not know how to react.
这是弱者无力的表现。
It is a sign of weakness.
为什么会这样？女人不被社会鼓励表达愤怒，不被鼓励发脾气。
Why is this so? Women are not encouraged by society to express anger, not to be encouraged to lose their temper.
女人发脾气会被骂泼妇，泼妇是对女人的诋毁，这个诋毁甚至要比说一个男人是家暴男更严重。
When a woman loses her temper, she is called a bitch and a bitch is a disgrace to a woman. This is worse than saying that a man is a domestic violence man.
女人很难向别人、向社会表达愤怒，很多女人只得默默忍受，独自伤心。
It is hard for women to express their anger to others and to society. Many women have to bear it in silence and feel sad all by themselves.
有人说她会面对冲突的时候用冷暴力，可是更多觉得是在惩罚自己而不是别人。
Some said she would use cold violence in the face of conflict, but felt more like a punishment for herself than someone else.
女人更少直接地表达不满，这需要练习。
Women are less likely to express their disapproval directly, which requires practice.
有时候，我们会在想象中嘴炮连珠得吵架，而现实中总是磕磕巴巴。
Sometimes we imagine a brawl, but in reality it's always stuttering.
有人说用自己的母语或方言吵架会更有气势。
It has been said that quarrelling in one's native language or dialect is more powerful.
当然，我并不是鼓励大家吵架，而是思考和练习如果在遇到冲突的时候学会表达自己。
Of course, I'm not encouraging people to quarrel, but to think and practice if I learn to express myself in times of conflict.
2月13日捂汗的一处隔离区（图片由郭晶提供）早上出门的时候，阳光刚刚透过云层照到地上。
The sun had just hit the ground through the clouds as he left the house in the morning.
我出门的时候，保安没有拦下我，也没有问我，能自由地出门让我感到幸运。
When I went out, the security guard did not stop me, did not ask me, I feel lucky to be able to go out freely.
昨天有朋友问我现在缺什么，我没有任何思考，脱口而出说“缺自由”。
Yesterday a friend asked me what I needed now. Without any thought, I blurted out, "Lack of freedom."
风尘后，城市的马路上没有了喧嚣，可以听到鸟叫声。
After the wind and dust, there was no noise on the city road. Birds could be heard.
有个老人家在一栋楼的侧面打太极，超市开始控制人进入，队伍是从离门口五六米的地方才开始排的，人与人之间隔着一米的距离。
An old man was playing tai chi on the side of a building, and the supermarket began to control people entering. The line started five or six meters from the door.
有一个路口摆着桌子，是供社区工作人员用的，桌子上放着体温仪和洗手液，旁边有八九个人，有两个人坐在桌子后面。
At a junction there was a table for community workers, on which lay a thermometer and hand sanitizer. There were eight or nine people next to them, and two of them were sitting behind the table.
有个老人家跟两个人说着什么，其中一个戴着社区工作人员专属的红帽子。
There was an old man talking to two people, one of whom was wearing a red hat reserved for community workers.
过了一会，老人家离开了，我走过去问她怎么回事。
After a while, the old man left, and I went over to her and asked her what was the matter.
她着急地说：“老伴要去医院看病、开药，但他不是肺炎，是脑溢血，要一个月去一次医院，哪晓得出了这个事，都熬了好几天啦。
She said anxiously: "My wife to go to the hospital to see a doctor, prescription medicine, but he is not pneumonia, is a brain haemorrhage, to go to the hospital once a month, who knew that this matter, has endured for several days.
他也走不到医院，社区不给安排车。
He could not get to the hospital, and the community did not arrange cars.
”她老伴吃的药有处方药，很难买。
The medicine her wife took was prescription drugs that were hard to get.
前面站着五个穿制服的人，老人家又过去跟他们说自己的情况，穿制服的人说：“这个还是找社区。
In front of them stood five men in uniform, who went to tell them about themselves. The man in uniform said, "This is for the community.
”老人家无奈地走了。
"The old man went away helpless.
和社区服务中心沟通的人（图片由郭晶提供）这几个穿制服的人是在这里看着几个卖菜的人收摊。
The uniformed men who communicated with the community service center (photo provided by Guo Jingjing) were there to watch several vegetable vendors collect their wares.
卖菜的人很不满，小声抱怨着。
The vegetable seller was very dissatisfied and complained in a low voice.
他们可能也面临生计问题，所以要出来赚钱。
They may also face livelihood problems, so come out and make money.
其实，他们摆摊的位置相对空旷，跟超市密闭的空间相比反而更可以避免病毒的传播。
In fact, their placement is relatively empty, compared to the closed supermarket space can be more to avoid the spread of the virus.
可是他们就是要被驱赶。
But they're just going to be expelled.
小区门口和城中村的路口都多了一些戴红帽子的人和写着“不出门防病瘟，要平安控出门”。
The entrance to the community and the village in the intersection of a number of red hats and write "do not go out to prevent disease, to safely control out."
这些标语牌看起来像是统一打印。
These placards look like unified printing.
这类搞宣传的事情很容易统一化地执行。
Such propaganda can easily be carried out in a uniform manner.
我在一个路口停下来拍照，坐在凳子上的红帽子非常警惕，马上站了起来：“你要做什么？”我有点不耐烦地说：“拍照”“你是记者吗”“不是，我住在附近。
I stopped at a junction to take a picture, the red hat on the stool was very alert and stood up immediately: What are you doing? I said impatiently, Are you a reporter No, I live nearby.
”统一化的标语（图片由郭晶提供）社区卫生服务中心门外有两个穿着防护服，带着口罩和护目镜的人和一个老人家讲着什么，我不敢靠太近。
Two people wearing protective clothing, masks and goggles were talking to an old man outside the community health service center. I was afraid to get too close.
路上遇到两个新的隔离观察点，其中一个隔离点是隔离了两个相邻的酒店，门口有好几个人，他们脱掉自己的防护服，然后用黄色的喷雾箱消毒。
Two new isolated observation points were encountered on the road, one of which was the isolation of two adjoining hotels, where several people took off their protective clothing and then disinfected it with yellow spray boxes.
路过一个小超市，门口用空的菜篮子挡住了，买东西的人在外面选东西，收银员在门口结算。
Passing a small supermarket, the door with an empty basket blocked, shopping outside the selection of things, the cashier at the door settlement.
有一个小区有人在进入，她手里拿着一张纸，向保安出示，可能是出入证。
There was someone entering the area, holding a piece of paper in her hand and showing it to the security guard, possibly a grounds pass.
下午，对面供电局的楼用音箱大声地放着音乐，是那种很多门店为了招揽客人的感觉，平时每个店都在放，就会很吵，现在一个地方在放，有点稀罕。
In the afternoon, the building opposite the power supply bureau loud music, is the kind of many stores in order to attract guests, usually every shop played, will be very noisy, now a place put, a little rare.
2月13禁止客人进入的超市（图片由郭晶提供）每天都可能是最后一天出门，我担心真的不能出门了我会后悔，可是今天更重要。
Supermarkets closed to guests Feb. 13 (photo provided by Guo Jingjing) Every day may be the last day to go out, I am afraid I really can not go out I will regret, but today is more important.
2月14日我们能不能出门？这件事不再由我们自己决定。
Can we go out on Feb. 14th This is no longer up to us.
我虽然在捂汗，但还算幸运的是，我还能出门。
I was sweating, but luckily, I was still able to go out.
很多地方都限制人们进出小区。
Many places restrict people from entering or leaving small areas.
一个在湖北某县城的朋友说她所在的小区已经被限制出入好几天，社区通知昨天开始完全禁止出入，买菜都不行。
A friend in a county in Hubei province said her neighborhood had been restricted for days, and the community had told her yesterday that access was banned and food was not allowed.
昨天早上，她家人赶快带着口罩和通行证出门买菜，很多人在菜市场抢菜，她家人去买土豆的时候前面一个人打算买完所有的土豆，她家人请求他留一些，她家人才买到一点土豆。
Yesterday morning, her family rushed out to buy food with masks and passes. Many of them were in the vegetable market. When her family went to buy potatoes, one of them decided to buy all the potatoes.
下午，她家人想再出去买一些东西就出不了小区了。
In the afternoon, her family wanted to go out and buy some more things so that they could not get out of the community.
这如同武汉风尘时的套路，临时通报，没有告知居民生活如何得到保障。
This is like Wuhan when the wind and dust routine, temporary notice, did not tell the residents how to ensure that life.
Z_F在应对传染病的时候，除了控制病毒本身，还要将人们的恐惧考虑在内。
Z _ F deals with infectious diseases by controlling not only the virus itself, but also people's fears.
可是恰恰相反，有的地方开始鼓励举报，举报一个新冠状病毒肺炎病人奖励1万元，病人自觉去医院也会奖励一些钱。
However, on the contrary, some places began to encourage reporting, a new coronavirus pneumonia patients reward 10,000 yuan, patients will voluntarily go to the hospital will reward some money.
人们对Z_F的信任、人与人之间的信任不断地被消耗，恐慌却在被加强。
People's trust in Z _ F, trust among people, is constantly being eroded, and panic is growing.
这几天周围被管控得越来越严，超市限制进入的人数、周边被封起来的地方越来越多、更多的隔离区域。
These days the perimeter is being tightened up, with more and more restricted access to supermarkets, more and more enclosed spaces and more isolated areas.
而很多人需要帮助的时候，社区工作人员、穿制服的人都成了无能者。
And when many people need help, community workers, men in uniform, become incompetent.
我感到深深地绝望。
I felt a deep sense of despair.
昨晚的晚餐是香菇炒肉加稀饭。
Last night's dinner was sauteed mushrooms with porridge.
晚饭后和朋友们聊天。
Chat with your friends after dinner.
有人在学英语，大家分享了一些学习经验，大体上说是要经常用，多听和看英文的文章和节目。
Some people are learning English, we have shared some learning experience, generally speaking, to often use, listen to and watch English articles and programs.
当然，张口说也很重要，我们学英语过程中遇到的难题。
Of course, it is also important to open our mouth to talk about the difficulties we encounter in learning English.
有人说：“学习一门语言学的不仅是一个技能，还是一种文化。
It has been said that learning a language is not only a skill but also a culture.
”日本记者伊藤诗织将自己被性侵的经历写成了一本书《黑箱》，她曾到中国多个城市分享她的经历，有个朋友参与了她的活动，这个朋友说伊藤诗织讲日语就特别谦卑，讲英语的时候就很有力量。
The Japanese journalist Ito, who wrote a book called "The Black Box" about her sexual assault, shared her experiences with a friend in various Chinese cities who said Ito was particularly humble about speaking Japanese and powerful when speaking English.
现在大家都宅在家里，我们就讲到一些宅文化。
Now that everyone is at home, we talk about some home culture.
很多宅在家里的人自嘲为肥肥，他们中一些人有全职工作，但可能是螺丝钉类的没有创造性的工作，可能是父母帮忙安排的工作。
Many homeowners laugh at themselves as fat, and some of them have full-time jobs, but they may be screwed into uncreative jobs, possibly arranged with the help of parents.
肥肥花很多时间玩游戏，他们喜欢二次元。
Fertilizer spend a lot of time playing games, they like quadratic.
游戏和二次元的文化里充满了性别歧视，将女性作为性客体来呈现。
The game and quadratic culture are full of sexism and present women as sexual objects.
很多肥肥和父母生活在一起，甚至父母还为他们提供生活照顾。
Many of the fat goes with their parents, and even parents provide them with care.
这是一种对社会的消极抵抗，因为阶层固化，年轻人缺乏试错的机会，很多人看不到上升的空间，那是一种“努力也没用”的绝望。
It is a passive resistance to society, because class hardening, the lack of trial and error opportunities for young people, many people do not see room for improvement, it is a "useless effort" of despair.
可是女人依然宅不起，社会从来不会让女人轻易地被照顾，女人如果闲在家里，受到逼婚的压力更大，女人在家不做家务也会被指责。
However, women still can not afford to house, society has never let women easily take care of, if women idle at home, forced marriage pressure is greater, women do not do housework at home will also be criticized.
很多人开始在进行性别逃离，男人不想承担社会加给他的养家糊口的责任，女人则不想再作为“贤妻良母”照顾家庭。
Many people are beginning to flee by sex, men do not want to take on the responsibilities society places on them to provide for their families, and women no longer want to take care of the family as "good wives and mothers."
2月13日捂汗一家超市外排队的人（图片由郭晶提供）有人说她昨晚梦到没有戴口罩，在梦里东躲西藏的。
Feb. 13, covering Khan outside a supermarket line (picture provided by Guo Jingjing) someone said she dreamed last night that she was not wearing a mask, hiding in a dream.
我们讲到梦。
We talked about dreams.
很多人都曾梦到过考试，梦里经常要没有做好准备就考试，或者考试的时候想抄别人却抄不到。
Many people have dreamed of examinations, dreams often do not prepare for the examination, or want to copy others in the test but can not copy.
我时不时地梦到自己回到初高中的时候，梦里对考试总是很着急。
From time to time, I dream of returning to junior high school, the dream is always anxious about the examination.
考试会有一个结果，它可以用来判定我们是不是好学生。
The exam will have a result that can be used to determine whether we are good students or not.
我们从小就背负着这个压力。
We've been under this kind of pressure since childhood.
大学毕业后，我们可能不需要再通过考试证明自己，可还是会有一些时候对自己充满怀疑，似乎需要一些标准来证明自己。
After college, we may not have to pass another test to prove ourselves, but there are times when we are skeptical of ourselves and seem to need some standard to prove ourselves.
其实，某一次的成绩就能够决定一个人的一生是很悲哀的，可是我们的社会就是如此。
In fact, a certain achievement can determine a person's life is very sad, but our society is so.
我是我们村第一个大学生，我觉得读大学对我来说是非常幸运的事情，上大学后我开始看一些社会学方面的书，关注社会议题，参与行动，结识志同道合的伙伴，我的世界不断被拓宽。
I was the first college student in my village. I felt very lucky to go to college. After college, I began to read some books on sociology, pay attention to social issues, take part in actions and meet like-minded people.
有几个人还经常梦到厕所。
Some people also often dream about the toilet.
有人梦到急于上厕所却找不到厕所，有时候是真的尿急，有时候好像是某种焦虑。
Some people dream of rushing to the bathroom but can't find a toilet, sometimes it's really urgent, sometimes it seems to be some kind of anxiety.
有人在梦里当着很多人的面上厕所，会有一种羞耻感。
Someone in a dream in front of a lot of people toilet, there will be a sense of shame.
我偶尔梦到初中的厕所，它在教学楼的后面，光线被遮挡，很阴暗。
Occasionally I dream about the toilet in junior high school, which is behind the school building, where the light is hidden and dark.
厕所没有隔间，是一排坑，大概有二三十个，供约一千人用。
There were no compartments in the toilets, but a row of craters, about twenty or thirty, for about a thousand people.
夏天下雨，厕所就开始有积水，要隔一段距离垫一个砖块踩着进入。
Summer rain, the toilet began to have water, to cushion a distance of a brick to step into.
夏天还会有很多蛆，上厕所要不踩到是不可能的。
There will be maggots in summer. It's impossible to go to the toilet without stepping on it.
那里很脏，是一个我想要逃离的地方。
It's dirty. It's a place I want to run away from.
2月14日窗外景色（图片由郭晶提供）今天八点左右下了雨，雨声很大，我就起了床。
It rained around eight o'clock today. The rain was so loud that I got up.
我打开窗户，微风吹过，竟然没有感到寒冷，反而是一种清爽。
I opened the window, the breeze blowing, actually did not feel the cold, but a refreshing.
不知道从什么时候开始天气就发生了变化。
I don't know when the weather has changed.
我倚着窗户，在窗前站了好一会。
I stood at the window for a long time, leaning against the window.
楼下，有人开车出门。
Downstairs, someone's driving out.
路上很少人。
There are few people on the road.
我想今天要不要出门。
I was wondering if I wanted to go out today.
每天出门不再是必须，但也没有计划，而是临时的决定。
Going out every day is no longer a must, but there is no plan, just a temporary decision.
每天都可能是最后一天出门，我担心真的不能出门了我会后悔，可是今天更重要。
Every day may be the last day out, I am afraid I really can not go out I will regret, but today is more important.
我有很多工作要做，可是似乎都不紧急，没想到我是在这样的处境里变得有点拖延的。
I had a lot of work to do, but I didn't seem to be in a hurry. I didn't expect that I was getting a bit delayed in this situation.
最后，我没有出门，从一些琐碎的工作做起，慢慢定下心来。
Finally, I did not go out, from some trivial work to start, slowly settled down.
2月15日现实的魔幻总是超乎想象。
The reality of February 15 is always beyond imagination.
早上看到一篇文章，名为《有人买了一批口罩，发货地是武汉总工会汉南工人文化宫》。
This morning saw an article, called "Someone bought a batch of masks, the place of shipment is Wuhan Union Henan Workers Culture Palace."
文章写到在口罩到处脱销后，一些人组了一个团购群，寻找各种能买到口罩的渠道。
The article writes that after the masks were sold out, some people formed a group to look for ways to buy masks.
有个微商说有一批来自河南工厂出口的日本口罩。
A micro-businessman said there was a shipment of Japanese masks exported from Henan factory.
口罩发出后，物流显示是从武汉发出。
After the mask was issued, the logistics show was issued from Wuhan.
快递的箱子上写着“救援物资”。
The box on express delivery said "relief supplies."
文章很快被删了，但爆料的微博还在，有人评论写到朋友买的一万个口罩，也是从武汉发的货。
The article was quickly deleted, but the explosion of the micro-blog, someone wrote about a friend to buy 10, 000 masks, also from Wuhan.
下午武汉开发区在微博上辟谣，寄件人用了化名，和武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫无关。
Wuhan Development Zone in the afternoon on Weibo rumor, senders used an alias, and Wuhan City General Union Hannan Workers Culture Palace.
寄出的口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司生产的，不是社会捐助的物资。
The mask was produced by Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd., not donated by the community.
武汉华世达防护用品有限公司地址为汉南纱帽微湖路511号，在原“汉南文化宫”附近。
Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd. is located at 511 Weihu Road Hannan Yarn, near the former "Hannan Palace of Culture."
快递员取件后，定位“武汉华世达防护用品有限公司”附近时，高德地图电子地图定位的邮寄地址为“武汉市总工会汉南工人文化宫”。
Express courier pick-up, positioning "Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd." near the e-map map location address is "Wuhan City General Union Hannan Workers Culture Palace.
快递员证实了这一点。
This was confirmed by the courier.
可是箱子上为何写着“救援物资”依然无法解释。
But why the box says "relief supplies" is still unexplainable.
我2月2日问过顺丰，快递员说武汉不能往外地发快递。
I asked Shunfeng February 2, express delivery staff said Wuhan can not send express.
朋友圈前几天广传的一个讽刺视频是《一条劳力士的回家路》，有个企业家买了10万口罩捐出去，在封箱的时候劳力士手表掉进了箱子里。
A spoof video from the circle of friends the other day was "A Rolex's Way Home," in which an entrepreneur donated 100,000 masks and dropped Rolex's watch in the box as it was sealed.
口罩运到了负责分配物资的地方被领导拿去抵账，送给男科医院的院长。
The masks were delivered to the area where the supplies were distributed. They were taken by the leader to the director of the men's hospital.
医院有人买下这批口罩，找微商卖。
Someone in the hospital bought the masks and sold them to microvendors.
几经转手，企业家又买回了那批口罩，拆箱子后发现了自己的劳力士。
After several changes of hands, the entrepreneur bought back the mask, opened the case and found his Rolex.
在转卖的过程中，大家还通过瞒报价格赚钱。
In the process of resale, people also make money by understating the price.
视频结尾写着：本故事纯属虚构，如有雷同不胜荣幸。
The video ends with the words: This story is all fiction.
《一条劳力士的回家路》截图昨天的晚餐是包菜炒肉加稀饭。
2007-9-25 21: 48 A Rolex's Way Home 2007-9-25 21: 48 Yesterday's dinner was roast pork with porridge.
晚上和朋友们聊天。
Talk to friends in the evening.
好几个朋友都开始早睡，有人会早睡早起，有人早睡依然晚起。
Several friends go to bed early, some go to bed early, others go to bed early and wake up late.
有人说：“身体在逃避现实的压力和创伤。
Some people say: "The body is escaping the stress and trauma of reality.
”有个朋友讲到她妹妹从小喜欢和她比较，在很多方面比较，比如在学习成绩上、交友方面。
A friend mentioned that her sister liked to compare with her when she was young, in many ways, such as in school work and making friends.
妹妹对比较结果不满，就会跟朋友吵架，对朋友进行情绪惩罚。
Sister dissatisfied with the results of the comparison, will quarrel with friends, emotional punishment of friends.
人在没有找到自己珍视的东西的时候，总是喜欢和别人比较，看到别人有而我们没有的东西，并因此感到自卑、嫉妒或不公。
When we do not find what we value, we like to compare ourselves to others, to see what others have and what we do not have, and to feel inferior, jealous or unjust as a result.
比较是具有社会性的，我们从小就在被比较，学习成绩的好坏，是否有特长、家庭背景等。
Comparing is social, we are compared from childhood, academic performance, whether there is a strong, family background, etc.
有人从小就不喜欢买衣服。
Some people don't like to buy clothes when they are young.
好几个人表示有同感。
Several expressed sympathy.
买衣服的时候经常会被评价，被父母、朋友、导购员等，总是有人说你这里胖了那里粗了，让人很不舒服。
When buying clothes will often be evaluated, by parents, friends, assistants, etc., it is always said that you are fat there thick, it is very uncomfortable.
我和朋友们现在相对摆脱了主流社会对女性的束缚。
My friends and I are now relatively free from the bondage of mainstream society to women.
我们讲到相对主流的时候，分享了主流照，大家都是长发。
When we talk about relative mainstream, we share mainstream photos, and we all have long hair.
那个时候，大家也穿高跟鞋，有人穿过9公分的高跟鞋。
At that time, people also wore high heels, some through 9 centimeters of high heels.
有个朋友说：“大家主流的时候都没有特点，现在更有个性。
One friend said, "When people are mainstream, they don't have a characteristic.
”我们好几个人是在大学之后才开始留长发，因为在初高中时期短发更节省时间，对学习更有利。
"Several of us don't grow our long hair until after college, because shortening our hair in junior and high school saves time and is more conducive to learning.
初高中的时候，学校会控制学生的衣着和发型，裤子、裙子要过膝，不能烫染头发等。
In junior and senior high school, the school will control students' clothing and hairstyle, pants, skirts to knee-high, not hair perm, etc.
我高中时有个女同学的头发是自来卷，老师对此表示怀疑，硬是让她把头发拉直。
When I was in high school, a schoolgirl had her hair curled up by herself. The teacher asked her to straighten it out.
我们讲到化妆，好几个人也尝试过化淡妆。
We talked about make-up, and several people tried it too.
好女人要画淡妆，显得清纯。
A good woman needs light make-up to look pure.
有人说：“画浓妆需要勇气，自信了才敢画浓妆。
Someone said: "Painting thick makeup takes courage, self-confidence before painting thick makeup.
”2012年郭晶在捂汗街头参与反对公务员入职妇科体检的行动（红圈里的是郭晶）昨晚十点左右，窗外开始有轰隆隆的雷声，我打开窗户，风呼呼地吹着，还下起了暴雨。
"Guo was involved in the fight against the entry of civil servants into the gynecological examination in the streets in 2012 (Guo Jingjing in the red circle). At around 10 o'clock last night, there was a roar of thunder outside the window.
我的窗户外面有遮阳板，雨还是打到窗户上，咚咚响。
There is a sunshade outside my window. Rain is still pounding on the window.
小时候很喜欢下雨，因为下雨就不用下地干活，可以在温暖的被窝里睡觉或者玩耍。
I loved it when I was a child, because I didn't have to work in the rain. I could sleep or play in the warm bed.
此刻的暴风雨像是一种警示，地球对人类再次的警示。
The storm at the moment serves as a warning that Earth is once again a warning to humanity.
有朋友说：“新型冠状病毒、地震、禽流感、寒潮、蝗虫，这一系列的灾难像是地球对人类的攻击。
A friend said: "The new coronavirus, earthquake, bird flu, cold wave, locust, this series of disasters is like the earth to attack human beings.
”我躺在床上，外面哐当哐当地响，是雨打工地的临时护栏上的声音，再加上雨打窗户的声音。
I clanged on my bed, clanging outside, the sound of temporary guardrails in the rain, plus the sound of rain rattling against the windows.
我想要拥有暴风雨一般的力量。
I want to have the strength of a storm.
昨晚的声响搞得我很久才睡着，今天九点多才起床。
It took me a long time to fall asleep because of the noise last night. I didn't get up until more than nine today.
外面还下着雨，还是那么猛烈，工地上的临时护栏有些地方都被吹破了。
It was still raining outside, and the temporary guardrail on the site had been blown out in places.
窗户上起了雾，看不到外面。
The window fogged up and could not see the outside.
这样的天气呆在屋里最舒服。
It is most comfortable to stay indoors in such weather.
2月15日楼下被吹翻的护栏（图片由郭晶提供）下午我发现我住的房子外侧漏雨，水渗进了里面，渗水的位置刚好还有个插座。
In the afternoon, I noticed that the outside of my house was leaking. Water had seeped into it, and there was a socket for the water to seep in.
当时，我正在用那个插座。
I was using that socket.
我在聊天群里跟朋友们说了这个情况，有个朋友说“看看能不能找到控制这个插座的闸门按钮，可以用小功能的电器去试一下。
I told my friends about it in the chat group, and one friend said, "See if I can find a sluice button to control the socket.
”我就去试。
"I'll try.
她马上打了电话给我，担心我去试那个插座而被电死。
She called me right away, worried that I might try the socket and get electrocuted.
电闸有三个开关按钮，一个管房间和卫生间的插座，一个管空调的插座，一个管厨房的插座。
The switch has three switch buttons, a socket for the room and bathroom, a socket for air conditioning, and a socket for the kitchen.
我关掉那个管房间和卫生间插座的按钮，也没了灯。
I turned off the button on the socket in the tube room and the bathroom and there was no light.
幸好前房客留下了一个旧台灯，现在它成为房间内的唯一照明工具。
Fortunately, the former tenant left behind an old lamp, which is now the only light in the room.
我跟房东说了房子漏水，房东让我跟物业讲一下。
I told the landlord that the house was leaking, and the landlord asked me to talk to the property.
这也不是紧急的事情，现在物业肯定不会管。
This is also not urgent matter, the property will certainly not care about now.
漏水的墙上的插座（图片由郭晶提供）下午下了雪，作为一个北方人这几年在南方很少见到雪，我想着可以顺便看看雪，就下了楼。
As a northerner who had seen little snow in the south in recent years, I thought I could look at the snow and went downstairs.
我看到物业的门关着，以为没人，就去门卫室问一下物业的情况。
I saw the property door closed and thought nobody was there, so I went to the janitor's office and asked about the property.
到了小区的门口，我还没开口，保安就拦下我，说：“现在只有看病和上班可以出门，要去物业开出门证。
Before I could open my mouth, the security guard stopped me and said, "Now I can only go to the doctor and work, to the property to open the door.
”我担心地问：“那买菜怎么办？”“买菜也可以，要开出入证才行。
"I asked anxiously," What about grocery shopping? "" You can have a purchase, and you need a pass.
”“什么时候不让出门的？”“今天开始，市里发的通知。
"When was it that you were not to go out?" "To-day, the notice from the city.
”我又来到物业，敲了门，有人开了门，里面有三个工作人员。
I came to the property again, knocked at the door, and someone opened the door, which contained three clerks.
我跟他们说了房子漏水的情况，有个工作人员说他们不管，这个要房东自己修。
I told them about the leak in the house, and one of the staff said they didn't care. The landlord had to fix it himself.
这个时候，有两个老人家从我住的那栋楼出来，跟物业的人说要出门隔离，说是疑似病例，有个物业的人就带他们出了小区。
At this time, two elderly people from the building I live in, told the property people to go out of isolation, said it was a suspected case, a property people took them out of the community.
我心里一惊。
I was startled.
当时我急于跟物业的人确认出门的事情，也没问他们的情况。
I was anxious to confirm the departure from the property people, and did not ask them about the situation.
我问社区的人说：“买菜怎么开出入证吗？”“三天出一次。
I asked the people in the community, "How do I get a pass?" "Once in three days.
”“我刚好下了楼，这个口罩都用了，能不能让我出门买个菜？”“不能因为这个出门”我只得上了楼。
"I just got down the stairs and used all my masks, can't I go out and get a dish?" "I had to go upstairs because of this.
我想成为一个联结点，希望可以和更多的人建立联结，一起行动。
I want to be a point of connection, to be able to connect with more people, to act together.
我的微信号：1461177244。
My microsignal: 1461177244.
阅读更多：【播客】疫控时期，如何重建对生活的掌控感？。
Read more: Podcast period, how to rebuild the sense of control over life?
社工郭晶。
Social worker Guo Jingjing.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
现在缺什么？缺自由|郭晶的捂汗风尘日记|2/12-2/15。
What's missing now? Not at least Guo Jing's sweaty diary; 2 / 12-2 / 15.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "硝美丽";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "现在缺什么？缺自由|郭晶的捂汗风尘日记|2/12-2/15";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What's missing now? Missing from AT & amp; G's sweaty diary; 2 / 12-2 / 15 & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "大雨、漏水、出不了门";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Rain, leak, or not at & quot; & quot;
title: '这可能是我最后一天出门|郭晶的捂汗风尘日记|2/9-2/11',。
This may have been my last day at home at & quot; Guo's sweaty diary; 2 / 9-2 / 11 & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '硝美丽',。
subject _ name: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '疫控时期，如何重建对生活的掌控感？|对话被困武汉的心理咨询师【有点田园】',。
A: How did you re-establish control of your life at the time of the epidemic? A: Tramped at Wuhan Psychologist [A little pastoral] & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '硝美丽',。
subject _ name: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="硝美丽";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
