武汉病毒纪事——2020 年的第一场疫情。
Wuhan virus chronicle - the first outbreak in 2020.
原创。
Original in nature.
郑宇钧。
Zheng Yujun.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
微信号。
Microsignals.
功能介绍。
Description of function.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
1月17日。
January 17.
这一次的休市，几乎要使华南市场干货店老板曾嘉欣找不到生活的信念了。
This time off, almost to make the South China market dry goods store owner Zeng Jiaxin can not find the faith in life.
2019 年 11 月，因为一家卖辣椒等干货调料的商铺起火，曾嘉欣的商铺，以及铺子里 69 万的干货曾被付之一炬。
In November 2019, Zeng Jiaxin's shop and 690,000 dried goods were set on fire at a store selling dry spices such as chili peppers.
借了贷款，用半个月的时间把商铺重新装修，12 月，商铺重新开业，营业额逐渐回升。
Borrowed a loan, spend half a month to redecorate shop, December, shop reopened, turnover gradually pick up.
未成想，一场病毒，又把她刚有起色的生意，打回原形。
Undreamed of, a virus, and she just picked up the business, back to the original shape.
窸窸窣窣搜寻一番，基围虾专营店老板赵爱民从店里带出的有一把电子秤、一把蓝色长伞、两双雨靴、一段胶皮水管、几叠空塑料货框、蛇皮袋，还有一张有年头的木桌子。
Shrimp shops rustled and Zhao Aimin brought out an electronic scale, a blue umbrella, two pairs of rain boots, a rubber hose, stacks of empty plastic boxes, a snake-skin bag, and an old wooden table.
带出如此细碎的老物件，赵爱民不得不承认，他对短期内复市已经不抱希望。
Taking out such a fine old thing, Zhao Aimin had to admit that he had lost hope of reviving the market in the short term.
就读于中国地质大学的吴梦，选择放弃观看跨年灯光秀。
Wu Meng, who studied at China Geology University, chose to give up watching the New Year's Light Show.
不过，她的「胆怯」遭到不少朋友嘲笑。
However, her "timidity" was laughed at by many friends.
基于地域的一种情愫，卷裹着类似的争议，甚至互骂，流传在社交平台。
A region-based affair, wrapped in similar disputes, and even mutual abuse, spread in social platforms.
每当看见诸如「我就是武汉人，啥事没有」「戴啥口罩，该吃吃该玩玩」等评论时，吴梦就特别「窝火」。
Wu Meng was particularly "angry" when he saw comments such as "I am a Wuhan person, nothing is wrong" and "I need to eat my mask."
地处漩涡附近，华南市场周边居民，格外谨慎。
Located near the whirlpool, residents around the South China market, extremely cautious.
老人们已经减少或取消了经常下楼遛弯的习惯。
Old people have reduced or abolished the habit of taking a walk downstairs often.
改由晚上结伴乘坐公车，到 3 至 4 站地外，购买生活所需。
Instead, travel by bus in groups in the evening to 3-4 stops away to buy what you need.
在距华南市场不到 2 公里的汉口火车站，1 月 10 日，春运的第一天，人流密集，在黑车和旅店的拉客声中，少有人佩戴口罩防护。
Hankou railway station, less than 2 kilometers from the south China market, was crowded on January 10, the first day of the Spring Festival, with few people wearing masks amid calls from black cars and hotels.
……武汉SARS「复燃」流言的源头，网络上流传的截图这一次，流言的源头来自一位「疑似」医护人员。
This time around, the source of the rumor of a "rekindling" of SARS in Wuhan, a screenshot circulating on the internet, has come from a "suspected" medical worker.
2019 年 12 月下旬，有自称武汉市中心医院眼科医生的人，在网上曝出某地博奥医学检验所的检测报告，指武汉已确诊 SARS。
In late December 2019, a person claiming to be an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital reported on-line a report from the Boao Medical Laboratory in Wuhan stating that the case had been confirmed in Wuhan.
该人在取名为「武汉大学临床 04 级」的微信群爆料指，上述报告就是武汉华南海鲜市场确诊 SARS 的检测结果，并披露第一例患者是水果批发摊老板，在自己所在医院急诊科隔离。
The report was the result of a diagnosis of SARS in Wuhan South China Seafood Market and revealed that the first patient was a fruit wholesale stall owner quarantined in the emergency department of his hospital.
当小道消息派生出的 SARS「复燃」的惊恐，流传于武汉城间时，张阳的妻子，正在 70 公里外的孝感，妻子反复叮嘱张阳少出门。
When word spread of SARS "rekindling" panic spread between Wuhan city, Zhang Yang's wife, 70 kilometers away, filial piety, his wife repeatedly told Zhang Yang less to go out.
在随后的官方通报中，武汉汉口华南海鲜市场（下称「华南市场」）被频频提起。
In the following official notice, Wuhan Hankou South China Seafood Market (hereinafter referred to as "South China Market") was frequently mentioned.
这里是华中地区最大的海鲜市场，有个头比人头还大的阿拉斯加帝王蟹、一只得上千元；也有武汉夜市最夯的花甲，多已吐沙干净，批发价不到五元一斤。
It is the largest seafood market in central China, with an Alaskan king crab a thousand dollars bigger than a human head. There are also Wuhan Night Market's most compact shells, which have been spat clean, with wholesale prices less than five yuan a catty.
丰俭由人，多少武汉人的菜谱受此影响。
Thrift by people, how many Wuhan people's recipes are affected by this.
一街之外，就是汉口火车站，坐落于市区黄金地段的华南市场，是这座江城餐饮业的配送中心。
One Street outside, is Hankou Railway Station, located in the city's prime location in the South China market, is the distribution center of the Jiangcheng catering industry.
除了给各酒家饭店批发供应，一些公司的年终尾牙、团建聚餐亦会来这采购。
In addition to wholesale supplies to restaurants, some companies end-of-year tail teeth, group dinner will also come here to purchase.
在周围林立的高楼中，这低矮、杂乱的旧市场很是不搭。
In the surrounding high-rise, this low, cluttered old market is very mismatched.
一条新华路，将华南市场分为东、西区，东西走向的二十余条街，将 1000 余经营户分隔开来。
A Xinhua Road, will South China market divided into East and West, east-west trend of more than 20 streets, more than 1,000 businesses will be separated.
对于传言，李翰昭起初并不在意，他所开的水产店，位于西区 15 街。
For rumors, Li Han-zhao did not care at first, he opened a aquaculture store, located in the Western 15th Street.
2019 年 12 月 31 日这一天，执法人员说有疫情，这让他隐隐不安。
On December 31, 2019, law enforcement officials said there was an outbreak, which left him vaguely uneasy.
他破例没有早睡，而是来到了江滩公园，与 20 万人一道，和长江灯光秀一起倒数跨年。
Instead of going to bed early, he went to Jiangtan Park and joined 200,000 people in the countdown to the Changjiang Lighting Show.
2019 年的最后 10 秒钟，两江四岸的高楼上，同步亮起新年 10 秒倒计时。
For the last 10 seconds of 2019, the countdown to the 10-second synchronization of the tall buildings on the four banks of the two rivers.
这一刻，他对新年许下愿望。
At this moment he made a wish for the New Year.
一如往常，2020 年 1 月 1 日凌晨四五点钟，新年的曙光未显，李翰昭就已开店营业。
As usual, Li Han-chao opened his shop at 4 or 5 a.m. on January 1, 2020, before the dawn of the new year.
让他措手不及的是，八九点时，一辆辆公安、城管执法、市场监管的公务用车，运来大批执法人员。
To his surprise, at eight or nine o'clock, a large number of law enforcement officers arrived at a vehicle for public security, city administration and market supervision.
商户们被命令拉下闸门速离，市场只能出、不能进。
The merchants were ordered to pull down the sluice gates and to leave the market without access.
当他们疑惑地站在拉起的警戒线外眺望时，令李翰昭不安的一幕出现，鲜红色的警戒栏被堆到路口，随后，一些街市的入口铁闸，被徐徐拉下，冷清的街道里，只有穿着白色防化服的检疫人员的背影。
As they looked questioningly out of the picket line, Li Han-chao saw an unnerving scene in which bright red pickets were piled up at the intersection. Then, the iron gates of some markets were pulled slowly down the deserted streets, only the backs of the quarantine personnel in white chemical suits.
华南海鲜批发市场门口穿着白色防化服的检疫人员「我以为是暂时性的，去外头等一会，就放我进来。
Quarantine workers in white suits at the entrance to the South China Seafood Wholesale Market "I thought it was temporary. Just wait outside and let me in.
」李翰昭的想法很快被击碎了。
Li Han-chao's idea was quickly shattered.
有人四处张贴《关于休市整治的公告》，公告显示，华南市场实行休市，进行环境卫生整治，没有明确开市时间。
A notice announcing the suspension of the South China market and the clean-up of environmental health facilities was posted around the city without a clear opening date.
而一份落款为「省、市、区疾控中心联合调查组」的报告写道，「（华南市场）西区卫生环境很差，销售垃圾随处堆放，地面潮湿，通风很差……为病例发生的客观原因」。
A report by the Joint Investigation Group of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of Provinces, Municipalities and Districts wrote: "The Western District (South China Market) has a poor sanitary environment, with rubbish being sold everywhere, wet ground and poor ventilation... as objective reasons for the occurrence of cases."
有少数商户执拗地不愿撤离，宁可让人透过警戒线送饭，也不离开自家生意。
A few businessmen stubbornly refused to evacuate, preferring to have their meals delivered through a police cordon rather than leave their own businesses.
但把住出入口的执法人员，板着脸，已不再允许携带货物离开市场。
But law enforcement agents at the entrances and exits, with their faces on their faces, are no longer allowed to leave the market.
人的意志，在大势面前显得颇为无力。
The will of man is weak in the face of the general situation.
随着华南市场的休市通告被广而告之，与之关系密切的不明原因病毒性肺炎（下称「不明肺炎」），进入公众视野。
With the announcement of a market hiatus in South China, a closely related cause of viral pneumonia ("unknown pneumonia") has been brought into the public eye.
「已排除SARS和MERS等呼吸道病原。
"Respiratory pathogens such as SARS and MERS have been eliminated.
」在 2020 年 1 月 5 日的通报中，武汉市卫健委第一次明确将不明肺炎与 SARS 划清关系。
In a notification on January 5, 2020, Wuhan city health committee for the first time explicitly clear the relationship between unidentified pneumonia and SARS.
通告指出，不明肺炎诊断患者的数量攀升到 59 例，这是连日来的病例最高值。
The notice said the number of patients diagnosed with unexplained pneumonia had climbed to 59, the highest number in days.
病例最早发病时间为 2019 年 12 月 12 日。
The earliest case occurred on 12 December 2019.
部分患者为华南市场经营户。
Some of the patients are South China market operators.
病毒图片来源：站酷海洛69 岁的郑梓昱便是这最早发病的病例之一。
Source: Zheng Zi yu, 69, is one of the earliest cases of this virus.
为湖北省粤菜帮餐饮管理有限公司服务的他，常年在华南市场采购，将货发往荆州一家专门经营海鲜的酒店，至今已 15 年。
He serves Hubei Guangdong Cuisine Catering Management Co. Ltd. He has been purchasing in the South China market all year round and has been shipping to a seafood restaurant in Jingzhou for 15 years now.
据郑梓昱从荆州赶来的家属对偶尔治愈介绍，2019 年 12 月 12 日，他开始发烧，在诊所输液后，就是不退烧。
According to Zheng Zi Yu from Jingzhou family members to occasionally cure the introduction, on December 12, 2019, he began to have a fever, after infusion in the clinic, but did not reduce the fever.
随后，在离华南市场最近的武汉优抚医院检查后，因优抚医院以精神专科为主，郑梓昱被建议转院至另一家二级甲等医院，距离华南市场 1.5 公里的武汉市红十字会医院。
Later, after the examination of Wuhan Youcao Hospital, which is the closest to the South China market, Zheng Zyyu was recommended to be transferred to another Grade A hospital, Wuhan City Red Cross Hospital, 1.5 km from South China Market.
在该院诊断为肺部感染，住了七天院，烧还是退不下来。
Diagnosed in the hospital as a lung infection, stay in the hospital for seven days, burning or unable to return.
三甲医院，成了郑梓昱分级诊疗接力的下一棒。
Sanjia Hospital has become the next leg of Zheng Zi Yu's graded clinic relay.
12 月 24 日，他在同济医院办理住院，诊断记录显示，「该患者因「反复寒战发热 11 天」入院，考虑病毒感染（腺病毒）可能，不排除外机化性肺炎可能，建议结合临床治疗后复查。
On 24 December, he was admitted to Tongji Hospital. Diagnostic records showed that the patient had been admitted to hospital for 11 days due to "recurrent chills and fever."
」在疫情将近满月时，死亡病例还是出现了。
The death toll rose as the full moon approached.
1 月 11 日，武汉市卫健委再通报：初步诊断有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例 41 例，其中已出院 2 例、重症 7 例、死亡 1 例。
On January 11, Wuhan Health Care Commission reported 41 cases of pneumonia with a new-type coronavirus infection, including 2 cases of discharge, 7 cases of serious illness and 1 case of death.
值得注意的是，武汉市卫健委实行疫情每日通报制度从这一天开始，这天之前，最近的一次通报还是 1 月 5 日。
It is worth noting that the Wuhan Health Commission implemented a daily notification system for the epidemic from that date, the most recent prior to that date was January 5.
对于病例数与之前披露间的差异，有专业人士解读：由于病例统计标准由「符合不明原因的病毒性肺炎」精确到「初步诊断有新型冠状病毒感染」，病例数量由 59 例锐减到 41 例。
The discrepancy between the number of cases and the previous disclosures has been interpreted by professionals: the number of cases has been drastically reduced from 59 to 41 due to the accuracy of the case statistic standard from "viral pneumonia of unknown origin" to "initial diagnosis of new coronavirus infection."
死亡患者为男性，61 岁，常年在华南市场采购货物。
The deceased, a 61-year-old man, purchased goods on the South China market all year round.
1 月 9 日，经抢救无效死亡。
On 9 January, he died after unsuccessful rescues.
香港医院管理局感染控制主任赖伟文从武汉考察疫情归来后，对媒体披露，该患者于 2019 年 12 月 23 日发病，由于死者家属不同意，所以无法做尸体化验——验尸有助于确定致病源，2003 年确定 SARS 病毒病原，便得益于解剖染病死者遗体。
After returning from an outbreak investigation in Wuhan, the Infection Control Officer of the Hong Kong Hospital Authority, Lai Wai-man, revealed to the media that the patient had developed symptoms on 23 December 2019 and was unable to undergo a post-mortem examination, which helped to identify the cause of the disease.
让人警惕的是，通报中指出，「在确诊的 41 例病例中，男性为主，中老年发病人数较多。
It is alarming to note that "of the 41 cases diagnosed, males predominate, with a higher number of cases in the middle and older age groups.
年龄较大或有基础性疾病患者，易进展为重症。
The older or the basic disease patient, easy progress is serious.
」而从武汉归来的香港政府考察团则对媒体称，肥胖人士、长期病患、长者为高危人群，重症患者为 40 岁至 78 岁之间。
A Hong Kong government delegation returning from Wuhan told the media that obese, chronically ill and elderly people were at high risk, with severe cases ranging from 40 to 78 years old.
「患病的听说都是西区的，卖野味的也是西区的，我们东区没有。
"The sick are heard to be from the West Side, the venison are from the West Side, and we don't have one from the East Side.
」有商户跟偶尔治愈抱怨，颇有被牵连之感。
Merchants feel implicated in occasionally healing complaints.
在华南市场，有被允许合法经营的野味经营户。
In the South China market, there are game operators who are allowed to operate legally.
根据武汉市场监督管理局 2019 年 9 月 25 日发布的消息，在华南市场内，执法人员对售卖虎斑蛙、蛇、刺猬等动物的近 8 家商户进行地毯式排查，逐一检查其野生动物经营许可审批文件、营业许可证，未发现违法经营行为。
According to a report issued by Wuhan Market Supervision Bureau on September 25, 2019, law enforcement officials conducted carpet checks on nearly eight businesses selling tiger frog, snake, hedgehog and other animals, checking their wildlife operation license approval documents and business licenses one by one.
2003 年，在全球造成 774 例死亡、8069 例感染的SARS，向国际社会展示了一种新型冠状病毒的感染能力和致死性，可以通过飞沫传播的特性更让人谈之色变。
In 2003, SARS, which caused 774 deaths and 8,069 infections worldwide, demonstrated to the international community the infectivity and lethality of a new coronavirus, which can be amplified by droplet-borne features.
人们对 SARS 进行溯源，找到了农贸市场中的果子狸。
People trace the source of SARS and find the beaver in the farmers' market.
为防止 SARS 病毒进一步扩散，市场的万余只果子狸、獾、貉等被迅速捕杀。
To prevent further spread of the SARS virus, more than 10, 000 beavers, badgers and raccoons are quickly killed in the market.
中国人热衷于吃野生动物的消费习惯、口舌之欲背后暗藏的孕育致命病毒的杀机，头一次被严肃地摆到了国际层面。
For the first time, the Chinese, obsessed with the consumption habits of wild animals and the deadly virus that lurks behind their mouths, have taken on an international dimension.
当时的英国《自然》杂志刊文称，在中国大陆的南方，因为一些动物管理方面的混乱，可能将是全球主要新型流感毒株的发源地。
In the southern part of the Chinese mainland, chaos in the management of some animals could be the birthplace of the world's main new influenza strain, according to the journal Nature of the time.
SARS 的余波还在更长的历史尺度震荡。
The fallout from SARS continues to oscillate at longer historical scales.
2009 年，在斯坦福大学的全球病毒预测网络（GVFI）中，中国的广州、香港被纳入流感病毒检测点，这其中并没有武汉。
In 2009, of Stanford University's Global Virus Prediction Network (GVFI), Guangzhou and Hong Kong in China were included in the influenza virus detection sites, but Wuhan was not among them.
果子狸被认为是 SARS 病毒的来源，这个锅一背就是 15 年。
Beavers are believed to be the source of the SARS virus, and this pot is 15 years old.
其实，果子狸只是一个中间宿主。
In fact, the civet is only an intermediate host.
在那个 SARS 肆虐的年份过去 15 年后，2017 年，中国科学院武汉病毒研究所研究员石正丽团队成功证实蝙蝠是 SARS 冠状病毒的自然宿主，她因此被称为「蝙蝠女侠」。
Fifteen years after the SARS-infested year, in 2017, Shi Zhengli, a researcher at the Wuhan Institute of Virus at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, successfully confirmed that bats are the natural hosts of the SARS coronavirus, hence her name as "Bat Woman."
SARS 给武汉带来的影响还在于，由此立项的 P4 级生物安全实验室，耗时 15 年，终于于 2018 年投入使用，这个亚洲第一个、被誉为「病毒学研究领域的航空母舰」的实验室，让武汉的病毒学研究能力又创新高。
The impact of SARS on Wuhan also lies in the fact that the P4 biosafety laboratory, the first in Asia to be hailed as an "aircraft carrier for virology research," took 15 years to become operational in 2018, setting a new high for Wuhan's virology research capability.
中国首个病毒研究室、中国首个病毒学系也是在武汉创立，便是石正丽与章晓联的母校。
China's first viral laboratory, China's first virology department was also founded in Wuhan, is Shi Zhengli and Zhang Xiaolian's alma mater.
迅速完成病原检定、初判为新型冠状病毒、行之有效的突发公共卫生事件处置，武汉折射出了中国这些年的进步，但吃野味的旧习，却也让人感叹。
The rapid completion of pathogen verification, the initial assessment of a new coronavirus, and the effective handling of public health emergencies reflect China's progress over the years.
1 月 15 日，从武汉了解疫情归来的香港政府考察团对媒体表示，专家认为水产是直接传染源的机会不大，仍在追查动物源，但在动物样本中未检出病毒，因此，目前尚未能锁定病毒源头。
On January 15, a Hong Kong government investigation team returning from an outbreak in Wuhan told the media that experts believe aquatic products have little chance of being a direct source of infection and are still tracking animal origin. However, no virus has been detected in animal samples, so it has not been possible to locate the source of the virus.
一 线金银潭医院的大厅疫情催人急，1 月 15 日 0 时 10 分，武汉市卫健委罕见地于午夜时分发布通报，称「发现一起为家庭聚集性，夫妻两人发病，丈夫先发病，为华南市场从业人员，妻子否认有华南市场暴露史。
At 0010 hours on January 15, the Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission issued a rare notice saying, "The discovery of a family gathering sex, husband first onset of illness, for the South China market workers, the wife denied that there is a history of exposure in the South China market.
」同日，香港卫生防护中心传染病处主任张竹君对媒体表示，从武汉方面获悉，还有一宗家庭感染群组，一对父子和侄儿三人一起在华南市场经营店铺，发病时间很接近，有可能是共同暴露在感染源中，而非人传人导致。
On the same day, Zhang Zhujun, director of the Infectious Diseases Service of the Centre for Health Protection in Hong Kong, told the media that Wuhan had received information that there was also a family infection group, where a father and son and their nephew ran shops together in the South China market.
在官方通报中，华南市场以北 8.8 公里的武汉市金银潭医院（武汉市医疗救治中心）频频出现，两个少有联系的地点，被一场灾难捆绑在了一起。
In the official notice, the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan City (Wuhan Medical Treatment Center), 8.8 kilometers north of the south China market, appeared frequently, tying up two little-connected sites in a disaster.
未雨绸缪，在危机时更显预见性。
Be proactive and proactive in times of crisis.
国家突发公共卫生事件应急专家咨询委员会委员、武汉大学教授谭晓东，对偶尔治愈表示，自 2018 年 7 月到 2019 年 4 月，在湖北省卫健委的组织下，模拟「武汉军运会期间发生输入性中东呼吸综合征（MERS）疫情」的背景，这家武汉唯一一家具有近百年历史的公共卫生事件医疗救治基地，曾参与过多场演练。
Tan Xiaodong, a professor at Wuhan University who is a member of the National Advisory Committee of Experts on Public Health Emergencies, said that from July 2018 to April 2019, under the auspices of the Hubei Provincial Health Care Commission, the only Wuhan-based medical treatment base for public health incidents with a history of nearly 100 years had participated in several drills.
如今，演练成了现实，只是假想敌换了面目：变成了与 MERS 病毒同属的冠状病毒家族的新面孔。
Today, the exercise has become a reality, only a figment of the enemy's face: a new face for the coronavirus family, which is part of the MERS virus.
此次，分散于长江、汉江两岸医院的不明肺炎疑似患者，统一转院，由金银潭医院集中收治。
This time, the suspected cases of unidentified pneumonia scattered across the Yangtze and Han Rivers hospitals were transferred to the hospital for centralized treatment by the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
经治疗后，困扰郑梓昱多时的发烧症状终于退了，他本以为 12 月 28 日便可出院。
After treatment, Zheng Zi Yu was troubled by the fever symptoms finally retired, he thought December 28 can be discharged.
不料，复查后，12 月 31 日，他被同济医院建议转往金银潭医院继续治疗，这是他此次就诊的第四家医院。
Unexpectedly, on 31 December, following a review, he was referred by Tongji Hospital, the fourth hospital to which he was admitted for further treatment.
多名患者家属对偶尔治愈表示，不明肺炎患者隔离诊疗区为金银潭医院南楼住院部，4 楼及 6 楼为病情相对稳定的患者，7 楼为重症患者，5 楼病房主要用于出院前的观察。
The patient's family members indicated that the isolation ward for patients with unknown pneumonia was the inpatient department of the south wing of Au Tam Hospital. The patients on the 4th and 6th floors were relatively stable patients, the 7th floor patients were critically ill and the 5th floor ward was mainly used for pre-discharge observation.
入院后，每位患者先交 2000 元起的住院预收款，四到五人一间。
After admission, each patient first paid 2000 yuan in advance of hospitalization, four to five people a room.
入院后，家属不得探视，患者所需生活用品一律每日下午 3 点至 4 点送来，写上患者床号、姓名，由人转交。
After admission, family members are not allowed to visit, and the daily necessities are delivered from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m., with the patient's bed number and name written on it.
偶尔治愈看到，有家属提着一大袋桶装方便面送来，搓着冻得红通通的手，她说，丈夫是在华南市场打工。
Occasionally cured, a family member brought in a large bag of barrels of instant noodles and rubbed her red-hot hand. She said her husband worked in the South China market.
伴随着外界关注的增多，金银潭医院的安保升级、警戒范围加大。
With the increasing concern of the outside world, the gold and silver pool hospital security upgrade, the scope of vigilance increased.
初期允许自由出入的南楼住院部正门，被铁锁封住，侧门唯一的出入口，由保安坐守。
The main entrance of the inpatient section of the south building, which was initially allowed free access, was locked and secured by a security guard at the only entrance to the side door.
患者家属的活动区域，也被从各楼楼梯间，缩减为一楼出入口门前寸地，与亲人的距离，越发远了。
The area of activity of the patient's family was reduced from the staircase of each building to an inch in front of the entrance and exit of the ground floor, further away from the family.
章晓联是全国政协委员、致公党湖北省委副主委、武汉大学病毒学国家重点实验室教授，长期关注基层医疗问题的她，肯定武汉基层医疗体系在此次疫情防控中起到的作用，分诊、隔离、回顾性调查、追踪密切接触者并行医学观察……让疫情得以控制。
Zhang Xiaolian, a member of the CPPCC, a vice-chairman of the Hubei Provincial Committee of the ZhiGong Party and a professor in Wuhan University's national key laboratory on virology, has long paid attention to primary medical problems.
2003 年，北京沦为SARS 病毒疫区时，章晓联一次去北京出差后，被诊断为 SARS 疑似患者，在医院接受隔离治疗。
In 2003, when Beijing became a SARS epidemic area, Zhang Xiaolian was diagnosed as a suspected SARS patient after a business trip to Beijing.
这让她面对此次疫情时，心中笃定，反复跟偶尔治愈强调「不必恐慌」。
This left her in the grip of the epidemic, reassured by the repeated and occasional emphasis on "no need to panic."
但让人不安的，不只是无常的病情。
But it's not just the fickleness of the condition that makes people uneasy.
「喘不上气」、「气短」本是此次不明肺炎的症状之一，高额的医疗费用，压得一些患者家属也喘不上气来。
"Breathing out of breath" and "shortness of breath" is one of the symptoms of unexplained pneumonia. The high cost of medical treatment has put some patients' families out of breath.
有患者是农村医保，没买大病险的情况下，只能报销 30%，自费比例高达 70%。
Some patients are rural health insurance, not buy major disease insurance, can only be reimbursed 30%, self-pay rate up to 70%.
一名重症患者是华南市场的送货员，这名 44 岁的荆州籍男士处于持续高危状态下，每日需要 3000 至 4000 元的外采注射药物，截止 1 月 9 日治疗费用已达 20 余万。
The 44-year-old Jingzhou man needs 3,000 to 4,000 yuan a day in an attempt to inject drugs and has spent more than 200,000 yuan on treatment as of January 9.
水产与干货华南海鲜市场的基围虾摊位与其他商户相比，赵爱民是幸运的，1 月 1 日华南市场停市时，他已经卖完了当天的进货，40 元/斤的基围虾，600 余斤。
Aquatic and Dried South China Seafood Market Kiwai Shrimp Booth Compared with other merchants, Zhao Aimin was lucky. When the South China market was closed on January 1, Zhao Aimin had sold out of the same day's purchase, 40 yuan / kg of kimchi shrimp and over 600 jin.
这家基围虾专营店，是 66 岁的他和老伴相依为命的「小本生意」。
The Kiwaii Shrimp Shop is a 66-year-old "small business" in which he lives with his wife.
凌晨三时不到出门，走出他在江汉区公安局刑侦大队宿舍的家，穿过八古墩菜市场，再走五六百米路，就是位于东区的自家档口。
Three in the morning, out of his home in the Jianghan District Public Security Bureau Criminal Investigation Brigade dormitory, through the Baagutun vegetable market, and then walk five or six hundred meters, is located in the eastern part of their own filings.
他是从广东珠海进的基围虾，运货的车最早凌晨一时就到达了，等到凌晨四时，货就卸得差不多了。
He was a prawn from Kiwai Shrimp in Zhuhai, Guangdong. The delivery truck arrived as early as 1: 00 in the morning. By 4: 00 a.m., the cargo was almost unloaded.
这时候，负责采购的人员也来了，「越是大宗采购，来得越早。
At this point, the purchasing staff also came, "the more large the purchase, the earlier.
」赵爱民说着他常年与后半夜作伴的日子。
"Zhao Aimin said he spent many years with his partner in the middle of the night.
到了早上八九点钟时，赵爱民当天的货通常已卖光，他可以吹着小曲，悠哉悠哉地拉闸关铺，黄梅戏《女驸马》是他常哼不厌的剧目，对于这个瘦削的高个武汉人来说，大团圆的戏剧，没有生活中的那么多变数。
By eight or nine o'clock in the morning, Zhao Aimin's day goods are usually sold out, he can play a song, leisurely pull sluice shop, Huangmei opera "princess husband of princess" is his often humming opera, for this tall thin Wuhan, reunion drama, not so many variables in life.
下锅前的基围虾的寿命是以小时计的，如果凌晨五时货还没到，那这一天赵爱民就得亏本了。
Bai Wai shrimp before the pot life is measured in hours, if the five in the morning before the arrival of the goods, that day Zhao Aimin has to lose money.
总是有各种意外得提防着，雨雪大雾天高速封路、碰上车祸交通堵塞……无论是何种原因导致货到晚了，这责任都得赵爱民担着，这意味着到手的票子得飞了。
There are always accidents to watch out for, snow and rain on a high-speed road seal, hit a traffic jam... Whatever causes the late arrival of the goods, Zhao Aimin bear the responsibility, which means that the hands of the ticket have to fly.
所以他对天气、对路况总是带着忧虑，总是怀里揣着手机，功放放着交通广播，生怕远方传来什么坏消息。
So he was always worried about the weather and the road, always with his cell phone in his arms and the radio on the radio for fear of bad news from afar.
可他未曾想过，这黑天鹅是来自身边这看不见摸不着的病毒。
But he had not thought that the black swan had come from the invisible virus around him.
赵爱民的摊位是从长江边搬过来的，自华南市场在 2002 年开业以来，他就一直在此营业，从知天命之年到年近古稀。
Zhao's booth, which has been in operation since the South China market opened in 2002, runs from the age of 10 to the mid-seventies.
往年春节，他都照常营业，「客户是上帝，客户不能等」。
In the Spring Festival, he kept his business as usual. "The customer is God, the customer can't wait."
店，还是这个小店，不变的还有熙熙攘攘的客流：这 18 年，赵爱民从没遇到因故休市。
Shop, or this small shop, there will be no change in the bustling passenger flow: these 18 years, Zhao Aimin has never encountered the market rest.
即使在传言乍起的那两天，他的生意未曾受影响， 因为他基本不做散客生意，该来的大客户依旧来。
Even within the first two days of the rumor, his business had not been affected, as he had done little retail business and the big customers were still coming.
骤然而至的休市，让他常年不变的两点一线轨迹发生偏移，他赖以养老的饭碗出现了裂痕。
Sudden market break, so that his constant two-point trajectory of deviation, on which he depends for the old-age rice bowl appeared cracks.
24 小时轮流值守的保安（1 月 7 日，摄于华南海鲜市场东区）西区市场入口旁，新立了两顶迷彩色的救灾大帐篷，身穿白色防护服的检疫人员频繁出入。
Two new camouflage tents have been set up next to the western market entrance of the 24-hour rotating guard (photographed on January 7 in the eastern part of the South China Seafood Market). Quarantine personnel in white protective clothing frequently entered and left the area.
保安则在街巷出入口坐着，百无聊赖刷着手机，他们的职责是禁止商户出入、禁止路人拍摄。
Security guards sit at the entrances and exits of the streets, motionless brushing their mobile phones. Their job is to prohibit businesses from entering or leaving and passers-by from filming.
休市后的这些天，赵爱民回不去店铺，只能在家等消息，坐立不安。
Rest after these days, Zhao Aimin can not go back to the store, can only wait for news at home, fidgeting.
相熟的商户安慰他，一年忙到头，就当是老天爷让你好好放个假。
Familiar merchants comfort him, a year busy to the end, as if God let you take a good vacation.
赵爱民嘴角抽搐着，想说啥，却没吱声。
Zhao Aimin mouth corner convulsive, want to say what, but did not speak.
被滞留在市场里的货物，关系着一家人的饭碗，离开了人的照料，鲜货不可避免地走向死亡。
The goods stuck in the market place, related to the family's rice bowl, left the care of the people, fresh goods will inevitably go to death.
「已经臭掉、烂掉了」，李翰昭的水产店还留着一箱箱的牛蛙、螃蟹、甲鱼，货值接近 4 万多元。
"Already stink, rotten," Li Han-zhao's aquaculture store also has a box of bullfrogs, crabs, turtle, value nearly 40,000 more.
「这旺季就搭进去了。
"" It's a busy season.
一年就是靠过年前这两个月，这两个月赚的顶淡季时四五个月。
A year depends on the past two months before the New Year, these two months earned the peak season of four or five months.
」李翰昭说。
"said Li Zhaohao.
比起每月 3.8 万元的房租等费用和 7 万元的积压货品的损失，拥有五个铺面的方继藩最担心的是流失的客源——「散客肯定不指望了，主要得保住大客户」。
Compared with the cost of $38,000 a month for rent, and the loss of a $70,000 backlog, Fang's five-storey vassal-vassal worried most about the source of his lost customers - "the individual definitely can't count on it, mainly to keep the big customers."
万幸的是，他在武汉四季美市场还有一家铺面，「这几天那边生意好了很多，往常在华南市场采购的，都跑到四季美了。
Fortunately, he also has a pavement in the Four Seasons market in Wuhan. "Business there has improved a lot over the past few days.
」痛的程度也不一样。
"The pain was not the same.
方继藩解释道，卖水产海鲜的，基本上损失的是几天的货，而卖干货调料的滞留货量则大得多。
Fang Ji-fan explained that seafood sellers basically lose a few days' worth of goods, while dry goods are sold at a much higher rate of retention.
换言之，卖干货的，可能是这次受影响最严重的商户群体。
In other words, it is the dry sellers who are likely to be the most affected group of merchants this time.
「如果说卖鲜货的，是求个痛快的死法，我们则是在慢性自杀，眼睁睁看着死期逼近。
"If the seller of fresh goods, is a happy death, we are in the slow suicide, watching the impending death.
复市拖得越晚，货被押得越久，我们越没有盼头。
The later the market resumes and the longer the shipment is delayed, the less we have to hope for.
」黄程里一提到他华南市场里的干货店生意，就愁出了苦瓜脸。
When Huang Cheng mentioned the dry-goods store business in his South China market, he was sad to have a bitter melon face.
他解释道，调料保质期一般是 9 个月到 1 年，最长的也不过 18 个月。
The shelf life of spices, he explains, is typically between nine months and a year, and the longest is just 18 months.
现在市场监管查的严，他送到大客户的货，必须得留有至少半年的保质期，否则会被拒收。
Now market surveillance is so tight that he has to leave at least half a year's shelf life for goods he sends to big customers, otherwise they will be rejected.
对一贯以女强人形象示外的干货铺老板曾嘉欣而言，这一次的休市，几乎要使她找不到生活的信念了。
For Zeng Jiaxin, the dry goods shop owner who has always shown the image of a strong woman, the rest of the market almost made her lose faith in life.
刚遇人祸，又遭天灾。
A man-made disaster, and a natural disaster.
2019 年 11 月，因为一家卖辣椒等干货调料的商铺起火，曾嘉欣的商铺，以及铺子里 69 万的干货曾被付之一炬。
In November 2019, Zeng Jiaxin's shop and 690,000 dried goods were set on fire at a store selling dry spices such as chili peppers.
借了贷款，用半个月的时间把商铺重新装修，12 月，商铺重新开业，营业额逐渐回升。
Borrowed a loan, spend half a month to redecorate shop, December, shop reopened, turnover gradually pick up.
未成想，一场病毒，又把她刚有起色的生意，打回原形。
Undreamed of, a virus, and she just picked up the business, back to the original shape.
众生执法人员与商户（1 月 8 日，摄于华南市场东区七街）多数商户在苦苦等待，也有少数伺机而动，哪怕冒着风险。
Most merchants and merchants (filmed on Jan. 8 at East Seventh Street, South China Market) are waiting, while a few are waiting, even at the risk of doing so.
1 月 8 日 17 时，刘老玉顶着粉红色的绒线帽来到东区七街的自家铺子，店面对着大马路。
At 1700 hours on January 8, Liu Laoyu came to her shop on East Side Seventh Street, wearing a pink woolen hat.
拉开门闸，刘老玉造出的声响，回荡在空落落的市场街巷。
Open the gate, Liu Laoyu made the sound, echoed in the empty market streets.
撅着屁股，他拿着绿网兜捞着玻璃箱里的螃蟹，头几只蟹嘴部还冒着泡泡，这轻微的气泡破裂声对他来说无疑是最美妙的。
With a pout of his buttocks, he fished up crabs in the glass box with his green net, and bubbled from the jaws of his first puppies.
可接下来捞出的螃蟹，螯与足肢都自然下垂，他默默地把死蟹归拢为一堆。
But then out of the crab, claw and foot are drooping naturally, he quietly collected the dead crab into a pile.
他捞了 9 袋螃蟹，总共一百三十余只，其中有四十二只是死的。
He fished up nine crabs, a total of more than 130, of which forty-two were only dead.
穿着黑大褂的执法人员过来询问，刘老玉解释道，他刚在市场管理办办了手续，这些螃蟹，他保证不售卖，只供自家改善伙食，「这生意亏得不成样子了，别的不说，总不能坐看这螃蟹死了臭了啊。
When a law enforcement officer in a black coat came to inquire, Liu Laoyu explained that he had just gone through the formalities at the market management office. The crabs, he promised not to sell, but to improve their food at home.
」有十六名执法人员围在档口前，唇枪舌剑后，执法人员依照规定，要求刘老玉留下 9 袋螃蟹，空手离开。
"Sixteen law enforcement officers gathered at the mouth of the file and, after a verbal exchange of words, asked him to leave nine bags empty-handed.
偶尔治愈看到，涨得脸通红的刘老玉，不甘心地蹲在地上护着螃蟹。
Occasionally cured to see, flushed Liu Laoyu, not willing to squat on the ground to protect the crab.
明的不行，有商户打了别的主意。
Ming can't. There's a merchant who has another idea.
1 月 11 日，黄程里对偶尔治愈透露，他知道有一户东区靠马路的商铺，在前一夜凌晨一时，偷偷开车，从店里运了两车货。
On January 11, Huangcheng told an occasional cure that he knew of an East Side street store that had smuggled two carts of goods from the store at 1: 00 a.m. the previous night.
由于无需通过紧闭的街道出入铁闸，所以该商户受到的阻碍较少。
The merchant was less hampered by the fact that he did not have to pass through a closed street to access the gate.
「冻品价值高，一车两三万，两车就五六万，这险值得冒。
"It was worth the risk of freezing, twenty or thirty thousand a cart and fifty or sixty thousand wagons.
」黄程里说。
"said the ecliptic.
偶尔治愈无法联系到涉事商户证实。
Occasional cure cannot be linked to the involved merchant confirmed.
地处漩涡附近，华南市场周边居民，格外谨慎。
Located near the whirlpool, residents around the South China market, extremely cautious.
2020 年 1 月 3 日，与华南市场一墙之隔的万科汉口传奇悦庭物业发布通知，严禁生鲜车辆进入小区车场售卖生鲜产品。
On January 3, 2020, Wan Ke Hankou Legendary Yuet Court property, separated from the South China market, issued a notice forbidding the entry of fresh vehicles into the lot for the sale of fresh produce.
夹在铁道与华南市场之间的万科汉口传奇两个小区，万科汉口传奇悦庭共 8 栋 1946 户、万科汉口传奇唐樾共 16 栋 3536 户，小区住户常因卫生及交通问题投诉华南市场。
Sandwiched between the railway and the South China market are two legendary Wankokhankou district, the legendary Wankokhankou Yueting 8 households, a total of 3 536 households, Wankokhankou legend Tang Yue Yue, often complaining about health and traffic problems in the southern China market.
偶尔治愈发现，华南市场东区隔壁建筑内，八古墩生鲜卖场照常开放，主营猪肉、水产和蔬菜，无野味和家禽摊点。
Occasionally cure discovery, south China market east side building, Baagutun fresh store is open as usual, main pork, aquatic products and vegetables, no game and poultry stalls.
但多有万科住户表示，已不敢去华南市场周边的任何地方买菜。
But many Vanke households said they were afraid to go anywhere around the South China market to buy vegetables.
不仅如此，老人们已经减少或取消了经常下楼遛弯的习惯。
Not only that, elderly people have reduced or eliminated the habit of taking a walk downstairs often.
改由晚上结伴乘坐公车，到 3 至 4 站地外，购买生活所需。
Instead, travel by bus in groups in the evening to 3-4 stops away to buy what you need.
在距华南市场不到 2 公里的汉口火车站，1 月 10 日，春运的第一天，人流密集，在黑车和旅店的拉客声中，少有人佩戴口罩防护。
Hankou railway station, less than 2 kilometers from the south China market, was crowded on January 10, the first day of the Spring Festival, with few people wearing masks amid calls from black cars and hotels.
在华南市场停车场外的一条街，偶尔治愈看到门面连着门面的十几家招待所。
In the south China market parking lot outside a street, occasionally cured to see the facade of a dozen guest houses.
前台并不在意近在咫尺的疫情，流动频繁的火车来客才是他们的主要客源。
The front desk is not concerned about the near-by-door epidemic, with frequent train arrivals as their main source of customers.
武汉部分高校则开始配发口罩，发通告提醒学生注意疫情。
Wuhan some colleges and universities began to distribute masks, issued a notice to remind students of the epidemic situation.
就读于中国地质大学的吴梦，因此选择放弃观看跨年灯光秀。
Wu Meng, who studied at China Geology University, chose to give up watching the New Year's Light Show.
不过，她的「胆怯」遭到不少朋友嘲笑。
However, her "timidity" was laughed at by many friends.
基于地域的一种情愫，卷裹着类似的争议，甚至互骂，流传在社交平台。
A region-based affair, wrapped in similar disputes, and even mutual abuse, spread in social platforms.
每当看见诸如「我就是武汉人，啥事没有」「戴啥口罩，该吃吃该玩玩」等评论时，吴梦就特别「窝火」。
Wu Meng was particularly "angry" when he saw comments such as "I am a Wuhan person, nothing is wrong" and "I need to eat my mask."
与华南市场一墙之隔的连锁快餐店「常青麦香园华南海鲜店」，于 1 月 3 日突然暂时关店，在通知中，店方称原因是「由于华南市场整体封闭消杀」，欢迎顾客到 500 米外的另一家分店就餐。
A chain of fast food restaurants across the wall from the South China market, Evergreen Maixiang Garden, temporarily closed its stores on January 3. In the notice, the restaurant said it was "due to the closure of the South China market as a whole," and customers were welcome to eat at another branch located 500 metres away.
在麦香园隔壁的「黑皮牛肉面」，依旧正常营业。
The "black beef noodle" next door to Mai Heung Yuen remains open for business.
1 月 11 日，老板娘赵瑞对偶尔治愈说，「客源少了六七成，亏得连房租都交不起了。
On January 11, wife Zhao Rui said to the occasional cure, "the source is 60 or 70% less, even the rent can not pay the loss.
」这家店的月租金为 1.7 万元，而店内的餐单上，80% 的菜品单价在 20 元以下，热干面售价 4 元。
"The store charges 17,000 yuan a month for rent, while 80 percent of the dishes on the restaurant's list cost less than 20 yuan each, while hot, dry noodles cost four yuan.
而赵瑞接下来还得有苦日子过。
Zhao Rui and then have to live a miserable life.
位于华南市场同栋楼二楼的「华南眼镜市场」，早早就在 1 月 11 日因春节而休业，比往年提前了 10 天。
The South China Glasses Market, located on the second floor of the Tongdong Building in South China, was suspended early on January 11 due to the Spring Festival, 10 days earlier than usual.
1 月 11 日，大年十七，唐薇已回到在台州的家。
On January 11, about 17 years old, Tang Wei has returned to her home in Taizhou.
她是位于华南市场东区一楼的暴龙眼镜的店长，往年，占据黄金地段的暴龙眼镜，往往都会被二楼华南眼镜市场晚一两天春节放假，2019 年大年二十八，唐薇才回台州。
She is located in the east floor of South China market shop director of Tyrannosaurus eyeglasses, in previous years, the golden location of Tyrannosaurus eyeglasses, will often be the second floor of the South China glasses market late Spring Festival holiday, 2019 about 28, Tang Wei returned to Taizhou.
可今年，暴龙眼镜的生意也受到了冲击。
But this year, the business of Tyrannosaurus eyeglasses was also hit.
一家眼镜店的工作人员说，据闻华南眼镜市场有多名人员住院，但在放假前该市场一直正常营业。
According to one eye-optician, the market for South China spectacles reportedly had many people hospitalized, but the market remained open until the holiday.
人传人？一个患者背后，是一个家庭的悲欢。
From person to person? Behind a patient, is a family's happiness.
1 月 8 日，8 名不明肺炎患者治愈出院时，张阳却发现，已回到武昌家中的妻子，开始高烧发热。
On January 8, eight patients with pneumonia were cured and discharged, but Zhang Yang found that his wife, who had returned to her home in Wuchang, had a high fever.
在武昌医院诊断为泌尿系统感染后，张阳方心安：「毕竟武昌与汉口隔江，我们也从未去过华南市场。
After being diagnosed with urinary tract infection in Wuchang Hospital, Zhang Yangxin said: "After all, Wuchang is separated from Hankou by a river, and we have never been to the South China market.
」1 月 9 日，因病情加重，张阳妻子在武大人民医院重新检查，被诊断为不明肺炎，需统一转入金银潭医院。
On January 9, Zhang Yang's wife was re-examined at Wudang People's Hospital. She was diagnosed with pneumonia and needed to be transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
第二天，张阳妻子入院隔离。
The next day Zhang Yang's wife was hospitalized.
不过，生活并不总是灰色的。
But life is not always grey.
曾让部分患者忧心的治疗费用问题，有了解决的眉目。
Have let some patients worry about the cost of treatment, has a solution to the eyebrow.
有患者家属对偶尔治愈表示，政府承诺解决治疗费用。
Families of patients have expressed their commitment to address the cost of treatment by occasionally treating them.
张阳于 1 月 10 日为妻子办理住院手续时，即先按要求缴费预收款 2000 元，但随即又被告知免费，并退还预付的 2000 元。
Zhang Yang paid 2,000 yuan in advance on request to his wife when she went to hospital on January 10, but was told free of charge and refunded 2,000 yuan in advance.
而此前已缴纳相关费用的患者家属，则于 1 月 9 日开始收到退款通知。
Families of patients who had previously paid the relevant fees received refund notices on 9 January.
不只是张阳妻子和华南市场或无直接关系。
Not only Zhang Yang's wife and the South China market or have no direct relationship.
1 月 8 日，另一患者家属陈锋告诉偶尔治愈，因不明肺炎转入金银潭医院的陈锋儿子，也没有去过华南市场。
On 8 January, Chen Feng, another patient's family member, told an occasional cure that Chen Feng's son, who had been transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital for unknown pneumonia, had not been to the South China market.
2019 年 12 月 26 日，其子因高烧、一直吃不下饭等症状，进入武汉市中心医院（后湖院区）检查。
On 26 December 2019, her son was admitted to Wuhan Central Hospital (Houhu courtyard area) to check for symptoms such as high fever and persistent inability to eat food.
因为儿子当过兵，身体一直很好，所以陈锋也未太在意。
Because the son has been a soldier, the health has been very good, so Chen Feng did not care too much.
直到 2020 年 1 月 3 日，后湖院区通知陈锋，经二次检查，其子为不明肺炎，需在后湖院区住院 4 天后，「排队」转送到金银潭医院。
Until January 3, 2020, Houhu District informed Chen Feng that after a second examination, her son was suffering from unexplained pneumonia. He had to be hospitalized in Houhu courtyard for 4 days before being "queued" and transferred to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
医院强调，此事应「保密」、不要对外界透露，陈锋这才紧张起来。
The hospital stressed that the matter should be "confidential", do not reveal to the outside world, Chen Feng this tension.
陈锋家住盘龙城经济开发区，距华南市场 15 公里左右，不过其子的工作公司，在华南市场 3 公里范围内。
Chen Feng lives in the Panlong City Economic Development Zone, about 15 kilometers from the South China market, but her son works for a company within 3 kilometers of the South China market.
「但我儿子根本就没有去过华南市场」，陈锋困惑地提到。
"But my son has never been to the South China market at all," Chen said bewildered.
疑问盘旋在人们心头。
Doubts hover in people's minds.
1 月 15 日，武汉市卫健委在午夜时分发布的通报中指出，「少数病例否认有华南市场暴露史，个别病例曾接触过类似病例。
"A few cases have denied any history of exposure in the South China market, and a few cases have been exposed to similar cases," Wuhan Health Commission said in a midnight notice.
」在重申此前的官方口径「未发现明显人传人现象」后，多了一句新的说明：「不能排除有限人传人的可能，但持续人传人的风险较低。
After reiterating the previous official "no significant human-to-human transmission" statement, a new sentence was added: "The possibility of a limited human-to-human transmission cannot be ruled out, but the risk of continuous human-to-human transmission is low.
」世界卫生组织于 1 月 14 日表示，虽然新型冠状病毒在人与人之间的传播或许有限，但这种病毒依然有可能在更大范围内爆发。
The World Health Organisation (WHO) said on January 14 that although the transmission of the coronavirus from person to person may be limited, it is still possible that the virus could spread more widely.
陈锋困惑的同一时刻，对于武汉不明肺炎的「恐慌」，在中国香港、中国台湾、韩国、泰国、菲律宾、新加坡、日本等多个国家与地区蔓延。
Chen Feng was confused at the same time, "panic" over unidentified pneumonia in Wuhan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, Singapore, Japan and other countries and regions spread.
澳门是第一个对来自武汉的航班逐一体温筛查的城市。
Macao was the first city to screen flights from Wuhan for body temperature.
1 月 1 日起，澳门卫生局人员便身着防护服，在来自武汉航班的乘客还没下机前，就登机逐一用测温枪筛查。
Since January 1, Macao's Health Bureau has been wearing protective clothing, before the passengers from Wuhan flights to get off the plane, boarding one by one with a temperature gun screening.
不安情绪蔓延港澳，不少市民抢购口罩及消毒产品。
Unrest spread to Hong Kong and Macau, where many people snapped up masks and disinfected products.
据香港文汇报报道，有部分药房坐地起价，把原价约 50 元一盒的口罩，加价至 498 元一盒。
Some pharmacies started selling masks for about $50 a box at a premium of $498 a box, according to the Hong Kong article.
演员胡杏儿经常往返内地工作，她对媒体称有提高防备，这几日会随身带酒精搓手液，回家一定先换衫及洗手，才敢抱两个儿子。
Actor Hu Xinger, who travels to and fro to work in the mainland, told the media she was on the lookout for extra protection.
除增设专员对自武汉来港人员进行监测外，特区政府更于 2020 年 1 月 8 日刊宪，将「严重新型传染性病原体呼吸系统病」纳入须法定呈报的传染病。
In addition to the additional Commissioner to monitor the entry of persons from Wuhan, the HKSAR Government announced in the Journal on 8 January 2020 the inclusion of SARS among the notifiable infectious diseases.
条例授权当局禁止怀疑患者离开香港，涉事病人若拒绝接受隔离或治疗，将会面临罚款 5000 元及监禁 6 个月。
The Ordinance empowers the authorities to prohibit suspected patients from leaving Hong Kong and to face a fine of $5,000 and imprisonment for six months if they refuse to undergo isolation or treatment.
泰国政府卫生部门于 1 月 13 日表示：当地发现首宗武汉新型冠状病毒的感染个案，患者为一名 61 岁中国女游客，1 月 8 日从武汉飞往曼谷。
A 61-year-old Chinese tourist who flew from Wuhan to Bangkok on January 8 was found to be the first case of infection with the new coronavirus in Wuhan, Thai government health ministry said on Tuesday.
有媒体指出，这是全球首宗在中国以外确诊的个案。
The media said it was the first case to be confirmed outside China.
日本厚生劳动省于 1 月 16 日表示，一名 30 多岁的中国男子在前往武汉后回日本，被确认感染新型冠状病毒，这是日本国内确诊的首例。
A Chinese man in his 30s who returned to Japan after traveling to Wuhan was confirmed to be infected with the new coronavirus, the first case to be confirmed in Japan, the ministry said on Monday.
但更多的恐慌被证明是没有凭据的。
But more panic proved to be unproven.
据韩联社 1 月 8 日报道，韩国出现第一例疑似感染武汉不明肺炎患者，该名患者为中国籍 36 岁女性，曾到过武汉。
A 36-year-old woman, a 36-year-old woman of Chinese nationality, has been to Wuhan, South Korea's first suspected case of infection with unidentified pneumonia in Wuhan.
3 天后，韩国媒体证实，该疑似病例与中国武汉无关。
Three days later, South Korean media confirmed the suspected case had nothing to do with Wuhan, China.
1 月 5 日，新加坡卫生部表示，患有肺炎、曾到过武汉的 3 岁中国籍女童，已经证实与武汉肺炎无关。
The case of a three-year-old Chinese girl with pneumonia who visited Wuhan has been confirmed to have nothing to do with Wuhan pneumonia, the Health Ministry said on January 5.
在武汉市卫健委于 1 月 15 日的通报中提到，自 1 月 3 日以来未发现新发病例。
No new cases have been reported since January 3, the municipal health committee said in a briefing on January 15.
张阳妻子的病例，截止 1 月 15日，尚未纳入最新统计。
The case of Zhang Yang's wife, as of January 15, has not been included in the latest statistics.
他说，不管诊断结果如何，均相信医院和专家组，「人生虽无常，但总要过个好年」。
Regardless of the diagnosis, he said, he believed hospitals and expert groups that "life is not constant, but it's always a good year."
年关回去取东西的店主从自家商铺搬出的氧气瓶临近年关，1 月 10 日这一天，华南市场允许西区的商户，分批次回店铺里取东西，但不能取货，只能取经营和生活用品。
On January 10, the same day, South China Market allowed merchants in the western part of China to take things back from their shops in batches, but could not pick them up.
曾嘉欣领着工人，从店里拖出一台 1 米 2 高的真空包装机。
Zeng Jiaxin led the workers out of the store and pulled out a 1-meter-high vacuum packing machine.
冷库里塞满的 30 万元干货，她一件都不能取出。
She couldn't take out any of the 300,000 yuan worth of dry goods stuffed into the freezer.
家里的路虎揽胜，后备箱和后座已塞满了各式杂货，这是她分两趟带出的战果：营业执照、账本……同行的一个烟酒杂货店老板，则拎着一瓶 XO 洋酒款款而出，瓶体里只剩差点见底的醉红酒水。
The Land Rover, the trunk and the back seat were packed with groceries, the result of her two trips: a business license, books, and a bottle of XO wine from a grocery store with a bottle of XO wine.
在登记损失时，黄程里填了 45 万，他说，检疫人员随他清点货品、看进货单、拍照留证。
When registering the loss, Mr. Huang filled in 450,000 yuan. He said the quarantine officer checked the goods with him, read purchase orders and took photos.
他藏着心事，跟客户签的合同有违约金，而在不可抗因素里疫情不包括在内。
He hides his heart. The contract he signed with his client is for breach of contract, and the epidemic is not included in the list of unstoppable factors.
为了不违约，他只能想方设法调货给客户。
In order not to default, he can only find ways to transfer goods to customers.
春节前都是旺季，调货的成本会高很多，一斤得贵好几块钱。
Spring Festival is the peak season, the cost of shipping goods will be much higher, a catty of expensive several yuan.
黄程里说，他算过账，鼠年他肯定是亏了，赚钱，成了奢望。
Zodiac said that he calculated the accounts, the Year of the Rat he must have lost money, money, become extravagant hope.
赵爱民没有直接经济损失，所以他没有在管理办的那本四开小本本里登记货值。
Zhao Aimin did not suffer direct economic loss, so he did not register the value in the management of that small book.
他反复念叨的，是那笔 1.8 万元：2019 年 10 月 17 日，赵爱民交了 2020 年第一季度的铺租、市场管理费。
He repeated that the sum of 18, 000 yuan: October 17, 2019, Zhao Aimin handed in the first quarter of 2020 shop rent, market management fees.
商户们都没有自有产权，都是跟市场租的门面。
Merchants do not own property rights, are with the market rent facade.
多位商户对偶尔治愈说，希望华南市场能退还铺租等费用。
Many merchants to the occasional cure, hope that the South China market can refund shop rent and so on.
1 月 11 日，轮到东区的商户被允许回店铺收拾。
On 11 January, merchants whose turn it was to do so were allowed to return to their shops.
这一天，赵爱民叫上穿着红色蝴蝶图案棉睡衣的老伴，回他暌别 11 天的店铺。
On this day, Zhao Aimin called his wife who wore a red butterfly pattern cotton pajamas to his store where he stayed for 11 days.
窸窸窣窣搜寻一番，他带出的有一把电子秤、一把蓝色长伞、两双雨靴、一段胶皮水管、几叠空塑料货框、蛇皮袋，还有一张有年头的木桌子。
They rustled, and he brought out an electronic scale, a blue umbrella, two pairs of rain boots, a rubber hose, piles of empty plastic boxes, snakeskin bags, and an old wooden table.
带出如此细碎的老物件，赵爱民不得不承认，他对短期内复市已经不抱希望，「即使哪一天重新开业了，也可能客户流失许多。
Taking out so many old pieces, Zhao Aimin had to admit that he had lost hope of reopening the market in the short term, "even if one day reopened, there could be a lot of customer churn."
」他语带悲凉。
"he said sadly.
「到了快过年，就给员工发工资走人，现在我包吃包住，养着他们没活干。
"When the New Year approached, I paid my employees to leave. Now I eat my bags and keep them out of work.
」黄程里雇有四名工人，工资 5000 元。
Four workers are employed in the Yellow Path, at a wage of 5,000 yuan.
至于自己，他说，「毕竟病毒未灭，我这时候回老家也不好。
As for myself, he said, "After all, the virus is not going out and I'm not going home right now.
等有了结果再回。
Wait until you get the results.
」「我估计年前政府会销毁滞留货品，什么时候所有患者出院了、疫情扑灭了，再考虑回老家。
"I estimate that the Government will destroy the goods left behind. When will all the patients be discharged and the outbreak eliminated before we consider going home?
」方继藩说。
"said Fang Jifan.
「贷款，也要回家过年。
"Loans, but also to go home for the New Year.
」曾嘉欣丈夫倚着路虎揽胜方向盘说。
"said her husband, leaning against the Land Rover wheel.
本文截稿至 1 月 16 日18 点，16 日 23 点，根据武汉市卫建委最新通报，新增死亡病例一例，至此，因新型冠状病毒感染导致死亡达到两例。
As of Jan. 16, 18: 00 and 16: 00, two new cases of coronavirus infection have been reported, according to the latest report from the Wuhan Health and Construction Commission.
除受访专家外，文中受访者均为化名。
In addition to the experts interviewed, the interviewees in the paper were aliases.
（撰文/摄影 郑宇钧编辑 李珊珊）—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
(Written by Zheng Yujun, editor-in-chief) - TipsOur new book, Between Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code that identifies the purchase of two-dimensional code in the image below - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death - and often helps and consoles.
文章已于2020-01-18修改            。
The article has been revised in 2020-01-18.
阅读。
Read.
在看。
I'm watching.
已同步到看一看写下你的想法。
Synchronized to read and write down your ideas.
前往“发现”-“看一看”浏览“朋友在看”。
Go to Discovery - Take a look at "Friends Looking."
前往看一看。
Go and see.
看一看入口已关闭。
Take a look the entrance is closed.
在“设置”-“通用”-“发现页管理”打开“看一看”入口      。
In Settings - Universal - Discovery Page Management opens the Take a look entry.
我知道了。
I see.
已发送。
Issued.
取消            。
Cancelled.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
发送。
Sent.
武汉病毒纪事——2020 年的第一场疫情。
Wuhan virus chronicle - the first outbreak in 2020.
最多200字，当前共字。
Up to 200 words, currently in common.
发送中。
In progress.
相关阅读。
Read about it.
更多文章。
More articles.
微信扫一扫关注该公众号。
A microphone scan focused on the public number.
微信扫一扫使用小程序 。
Micromail scans using the applet.
取消。
Cancelled.
允许。
It is permitted.
取消。
Cancelled.
允许。
It is permitted.
知道了。
I see.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
if(r>=c)i="今天";else if(r>=c-o)i="昨天";else if(r>=c-2*o)i="前天";else if(r>=c-3*o)i="3天前";else if(r>=c-4*o)i="4天前";else if(r>=c-5*o)i="5天前";else if(r>=c-6*o)i="6天前";else if(r>=c-14*o)i="1周前";else if(r>=u){。
RR & gt; = c) i = & quot; today & quot; else if (r & gt; = c-o) i = & quot; yesterday & quot; yesterday & gt; = c-14 * o) i = quot;
i="%s月%s日".replace("%s",parseInt(d[1],10)).replace("%s",parseInt(d[2],10));。
i = quot;% s% d & quot; .place; & quot; parseInt (d & # 91; 1 & # 93; 10). Place (& quot;% s & quot;, parseInt (d & # 91; 2 & # 93; 10));
videoPlayerIconSpan.innerHTML = '<span class="wx_video_thumb_primary"></span><button class="wx_video_play_btn">播放</button><span class="wx_video_mask"></span>'; 。
VideoPlayer IconSpan.innerHTML = & apos; & lt; span class = & quot; wx _ video _ thumb _ primary & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn; & lt; wx _ video _ play _ btn; & ltd; wx _ video _ play _ btn; & ltd; wx _ video _ play _ btn; & ltd; wx _ video _ play _ btn & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn & quot; wx _ video _ play _ btn; & gtd; wx _ video _ play _ btn
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉病毒纪事——2020 年的第一场疫情";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan virus chronicle - & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "情况不明时，支配人们的，不是病毒，而是恐慌。
var msg _ desc = & quot; when it isn't clear, panic isn't the virus that governs people.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
