千亿互联网医疗将要爆发？平安好医生的年报透露出这些信息。
Hundreds of billions of dollars in Internet health care is about to erupt? Safe Good Doctor's annual report reveals this information.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
The following article comes from 八点健闻Plus。
The following article comes from eight good news Plus.
Author 关其。
Author is concerned.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
2020年互联网医疗领域将迎来双重催化，有望成为行业的拐点之年。
The year 2020 will be a year of double catalysis for Internet medicine and an inflection point for the industry.
“疫情期间，平安好医生平台访问人次达11.1亿，APP新注册用户量增长10倍，APP新增用户日均问诊量是平时的9倍。
During the epidemic period, 1.11 billion visits were made to the platforms of safe doctors, the number of newly registered APP users increased tenfold, and the average number of daily consultations by new APP users was nine times higher than usual.
”2月11日，在这场特殊的业绩解读会上，王涛戴着口罩出现在了电脑屏幕另一端的直播间里，条理清晰地向投资者们介绍着2019年平安好医生的业绩以及近期疫情背景下的业务发展。
In a special performance reading session on Feb. 11, Wang Tao appeared in a studio on the other side of the computer screen wearing a mask to give investors a clear picture of what peaceful doctor did in 2019 and how business is evolving in the wake of the recent outbreak.
△平安好医生2019年业绩解读会在线上举行。
A good doctor's 2019 performance reading will be held online.
“17年之前，突如其来的非典疫情改变了中国线上购物的习惯，我们相信这场新冠病毒疫情虽然不可避免给中国经济造成一定的影响，但是中长期看这是互联网医疗的一个重大的机遇。
"Seventeen years ago, the sudden outbreak of SARS changed the way people shop online in China. We believe that this outbreak of the new crown virus will inevitably have an impact on the Chinese economy, but it is a major opportunity for Internet health in the medium to long term.
”作为平安健康医疗科技有限公司（股票简称“平安好医生”，1833.HK）董事长兼CEO，他感受到这串数字背后所透露出的积极信号。
As chairman and CEO of Ping An Health Medical Technology Co., Ltd., known as "Safe Good Doctor," 1833.HK, he felt the positive signals behind the numbers.
自新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，互联网医疗为自发居家隔离的人们提供了更加方便安全的就医选择。
Since the outbreak of Pneumonia, Internet medicine has made it easier and safer for people living in spontaneous home isolation to seek medical treatment.
而老百姓对于线上医疗服务的认识快速在加强，对其接受度也是快速提高，也拥有巨大用户流量的头部企业送来利好。
And the people's awareness of online medical services is rapidly increasing, its acceptance is also rapidly improving, also has a huge user flow of the head enterprises sent good.
这种利好在港股中的互联网医疗相关个股身上表现强势。
The good news in the Hong Kong stock Internet health-related stocks on the strong performance.
以平安好医生为例，其在2月10日股价全天大涨8.1%，此前，平安好医生的股价已经持续五天上涨。
In the case of Ping An Good Doctor, whose shares surged 8.1% throughout the day on Feb. 10, Ping An's shares have risen for five days.
中金公司曾在研报中提到，“疫”情带来了对于线上诊疗咨询的大量需求，“疫”情发展的急迫性催动各级医疗互联网医疗平台的建设进程，2020年互联网医疗领域将迎来双重催化，有望成为行业的拐点之年。
The urgency of the epidemic is prompting the construction of medical platforms on all levels of the medical Internet. In 2020, the field of Internet medicine will be doubly catalyzed and is expected to become a turning point for the industry.
而王涛也表示，“中国互联网医疗的瓶颈正逐步打开。
Wang Tao also said, "China's Internet medical bottleneck is gradually open.
”他强调，政策加速利好给行业带来了更大的机遇。
He stressed that policy acceleration offered greater opportunities for the industry.
抗“疫”战争爆发，互联网医疗迎来当打之年“当时用户正在山东的一个火车站里候车，症状是胸闷发热乏力，并且在 1 月初去过武汉。
Anti-epidemic war, Internet medicine ushered in the year of the beating "users were waiting for a train station in Shandong Province with symptoms of tightness and tightness in the chest and a visit to Wuhan in early January.
”1月23日晚上8点，望亭松医生和往常一样，在平安好医生APP 的后台为用户提供在线咨询服务。
At 8 p.m. on January 23, as usual, Dr Wangting-song provided online consultation services to users in the backstage of the Ping An Good Doctor APP.
对于望亭松医生来说，这是一个惊心动魄的夜晚。
It was a very exciting night for Dr Wangting.
按照用户所提供的症状描述，并结合最新的诊疗指南，望亭松确定该用户为新冠肺炎的疑似病例。
Based on a description of the symptoms provided by the user and the latest clinical guidelines, Maxine identifies the user as a suspected case of new crown pneumonia.
然而在指导隔离的措施过程当中，望亭松得知这名患者已经登上去郑州的火车。
However, in the course of the measures to guide the isolation, Wangting Tingsong learned that the patient had boarded the train to Zhengzhou.
更糟糕的是疑似患者出门没有带口罩，防护措施的缺失让整个车站暴露在病毒的危险之中。
Worse, the suspect went out without a mask, and the absence of protective measures exposed the entire station to the risk of the virus.
得知情况后，平安好医生团队立刻指导患者向列车长汇报病情，并电话连线列车长提供预防隔离措施的指导。
After learning the situation, the safe good doctor team immediately instructed the patient to report the condition to the conductor, and telephone the conductor to provide guidance on the prevention of isolation measures.
同时也联系当地的疾控中心，安排患者就近站点下车，由救护车将患者 送往当地的发热门诊进行隔离筛查。
Also contact the local CDC, arrange for the patient to get off at the nearest station, by ambulance to the local fever clinic for isolation screening.
”在2019年业绩解读会上，王涛同步了这位患者的最新信息：目前该名患者病情相对稳定，排除了疑似，回到家里。
At a 2019 performance review, Wang updated the patient: 'The patient is now relatively stable, has ruled out suspicion, and has returned home.
这只是疫情期间，互联网医疗在抗“疫”战场上的一个案例。
This is just one case of Internet medicine fighting the plague during the epidemic.
新型冠状病毒肺炎爆发后，国家卫健委多次下发通知指出，积极开展远程医疗服务，充分发挥互联网医院、互联网诊疗的独特优势，鼓励在线开展部分常见病、慢性病复诊及药品配送服务，降低其他患者线下就诊交叉感染风险。
After the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia, the State Fitness and Health Commission has repeatedly issued circulars pointing out that it is actively carrying out telemedicine service, giving full play to the unique advantages of Internet hospitals and Internet medical treatment, encouraging the online development of some common diseases, chronic diseases and drug distribution services, and reducing the risk of cross-infection for other patients.
与此同时，众多的互联网医疗平台和相关企业都迅速行动了起来，通过各项举措来为控制疫情助力。
Meanwhile, numerous Internet-based health-care platforms and companies have moved quickly to help contain the epidemic through a variety of initiatives.
平安好医生等多家互联网医疗机构纷纷开展了免费问诊活动，为广大用户提供相关咨询和诊断，并纷纷利用其平台优势和专业权威进行科普和防疫宣传，展开疫情相关的数据统计与分析。
Many Internet medical institutions, such as Ping An Good Doctor, have conducted free consultation activities, provided relevant consultation and diagnosis for the vast number of users, and have used their platform and professional authority to conduct popularization and epidemic prevention campaigns, and carry out disease-related statistics and analysis.
王涛在业绩会上介绍称，面对“疫”情，平安好医生在24小时内成立新冠肺炎抗疫专项小组，开通抗疫在线问诊专区，建立线上咨询预防机制。
Wang Tao at the performance conference said that in the face of the "epidemic" situation, Ping An good doctor in 24 hours set up a special team to fight SARS, open an online anti-epidemic consultation area, set up an online consultation preventive mechanism.
此外，疫情暴发之后，平安好医生迅速与包括武汉市、福建省、北京市、重庆市在内的56个省市政府展开密切的合作，提供新型肺炎实时的在线问诊义诊的服务，开通了各省市的抗疫义诊专线。
In addition, after the outbreak, Ping An started to work closely with 56 provincial and municipal governments, including Wuhan, Fujian, Beijing and Chongqing, to provide real-time online consultation services for new pneumonia, and opened special lines for anti-epidemic consultations in provinces and municipalities.
以平安好医生与福州市卫生健康委员会的合作为例，据了解，1月28日，福州市卫生健康委员会联合平安好医生APP，开通抗疫义诊，免费为市民提供新型肺炎咨询、疫情防护指导服务。
As an example, we have learned that on January 28, the Fuzhou City Health and Hygiene Commission, in conjunction with the APP, opened an anti-epidemic clinic to provide free consultation and guidance services to the public on new pneumonia.
有发热、咳嗽、乏力等症状，或怀疑是否患了新型肺炎的公众，可在每天的9:00-20:00随时拨打专线电话咨询专业医生，公众亦可通过“榕医通”APP、“榕医通”微信公众号、平安好医生APP以及平安好医生微信公众号随时进行在线咨询。
Members of the public who have symptoms such as fever, cough and fatigue, or who are suspected of developing new pneumonia, can call a professional doctor at any time between 9: 00 and 20: 00 each day. The public can also consult online through the Yung Med Tong APP, the Yung Yung Medicine Tong Micromessage Public Number, the Ping An Good Doctor APP and the Good Doctor Weixin Public.
△平安好医生 APP 义诊页面除在线咨询服务外，平安好医生还组织名医、专家直播解读“疫”情防护要点，并与北京医师协会合作开展医疗科普教育。
In addition to on-line consultation service, Ping An good doctor organizes live broadcast by famous doctors and experts to read and interpret the main points of protection against SARS, and cooperates with the Beijing Medical Association in popularizing medical science.
与此同时，在防疫物资方面，平安好医生向武汉及各地医疗机构合计捐赠45万只医用口罩，在线上启动千万口罩派发计划，为其他省市的用户免费提供口罩，并全力保证线上商城相关药品、保健品等产品供应充足。
Meanwhile, in terms of epidemic prevention materials, Ping An Good Doctor donated a total of 450,000 medical masks to Wuhan and local medical institutions, launched the distribution plan of 10 million masks online, provided free masks to users in other provinces and cities, and made every effort to ensure adequate supply of related drugs, health products and other products.
“每4个中国人，就有一个是我们的用户”“现在每4个中国人中，就有一个是我们平安好医生的用户。
"One in every four Chinese is our user." "Now one in four Chinese is a user of our safe doctor.
”在2019年在线业绩发布会上，王涛如是说道。
'Wang Tao said at an online performance conference in 2019.
根据其年报显示，2019 年，平安好医生总注册用户数达到3.15亿人，MAU（期末月活跃用户数）和MPU（期末月付费用户数）分别达6690万和296.9万，同比增长22.3%和26.0%。
According to its annual report, Ping An had a total of 315 million registered users in 2019, with MAU (end-of-month active users) and MPU (end-of-month paid-up subscribers) amounting to 66.9 million and 2.969 million, respectively, up 22.3 per cent and 26.0 per cent, respectively.
△图片来自平安好医生2019年年报按照王涛的规划，平安好医生将经历的四个阶段分别是：完善用户场景、数据积累、爆发式收入增长、大规模盈利｡在过去几年的发展过程中，平安好医生将重心放在完善用户场景和数据积累方面，通过AI技术应用的不断深化和突破，以及智能终端演进和普及，打造全面立体的用户数据，并最终构建成以用户的健康大数据为基础，以疾病预防为核心，以用户隐私和数据安全为前提的连续动态的个性化健康管理体系。
According to Wang Tao's 2019 annual report, Ping An's doctor will go through four stages: perfecting user scenarios, data accumulation, explosive revenue growth and large-scale profits.In the past few years, Ping An Good Doctor has focused on improving user scenarios and data accumulation, building a comprehensive three-dimensional user data base on user health data, disease prevention as the core and user privacy and data security.
也正是这种在用户场景和数据方面的积累，使得其在面对突如其来的需求时，可以平稳应对。
It is this accumulation of user scenarios and data that allows it to cope smoothly in the face of unexpected demands.
为了向用户提供更完善的服务，平安好医生持续提升自身医疗服务能力。
In order to provide users with a more complete service, Ping An good doctor continuously improve their medical service capacity.
据其财报显示，截至2019年6月30日，平安好医生的自有医疗团队达1193人；签约合作外部医生5324名，合作医院数超3000家，合作线下药店超3.2万家，较2018年末增加1.6万家。
As of June 30, 2019, Ping An had 1,193 medical teams of its own, 5,324 external doctors, more than 3,000 cooperative hospitals and 32,000 pharmacies under the cooperative line, an increase of 16,000 over the end of 2018.
据了解，平安好医生的医生分为自有医疗团队和外部签约名医两种，他们多来自三甲医院的副主任以上医师，平均执业时间超过15年。
It is understood that Ping An good doctor doctors are divided into their own medical team and external contracted two famous doctors, most of them from Sanjia Hospital's deputy director or more, the average practice time more than 15 years.
此前，平安好医生集合两百多位世界顶级人工智能专家，基于海量医疗数据训练出业内最先进的“AI Doctor”。
Previously, Ping An Good Doctor had assembled more than 200 of the world's top artificial intelligence experts to train the industry's most advanced "AI Doctor" based on massive medical data.
它能够涵盖3000种疾病的诊断知识，并对中医领域知识进行了结构化整理，目前已应用到平安好医生自有医疗团队全部22个科室，并在平安好医生6.7亿人次咨询数据的训练下持续优化。
It can cover 3000 diseases diagnosis knowledge, and the knowledge of traditional Chinese medicine field has been structured, has been applied to all 22 departments of safe good doctor's own medical team, and under the training of safe good doctor 670 million times consultation data continuously optimized.
目前，在人工智能的辅助下，平安好医生的团队可以进行全天候在线咨询。
At present, with the help of artificial intelligence, safe good doctor's team can carry on all-weather online consultation.
2019 年8 月，平安好医生推出会员服务“平安好医生私家医生”，通过一对一专属私家医生和全国排名前100家知名医院的名医组成的专家团，为用户提供7x24在线问诊咨询、名医二次诊疗意见、线下医院门诊就医安排、健康管理、慢病管理等全方位的主动式医疗健康服务。
In August 2019, Ping An Good Doctor introduced a member service, "Safe Good Doctors Private Doctors," which provides users with a full range of active medical and health services, including one-on-one consultations with private doctors and leading doctors from the country's top 100 leading hospitals.
这是平安好医生在扩展市场和用户方面的一次创新尝试。
This is an innovative attempt by Ping An Good Doctor to expand the market and users.
在2019年中期业绩发布会上王涛表示，推出私家医生的目标是让中国的每个中产阶级家庭拥有一个私家医生。
At a mid-term performance conference in 2019, Wang Tao said the goal was for every middle-class Chinese family to have a private doctor.
如果以中国中产阶级家庭粗略估算，私家医生至少是一个百亿级的市场。
If you take a rough estimate of middle-class Chinese households, private doctors are at least a billion-dollar market.
在各方的努力下，十年、二十年后，这个市场有望成为一个千亿级的市场。
Thanks to the efforts of all parties, this market is expected to become a trillion-dollar market in a decade or two.
私家医生服务上线半年的数据证实了王涛的想法。
The private doctor serves on line the data of half a year confirmed Wang Tao's idea.
据平安好医生 2019 年年报显示，报告期内，其现有会员产品增长稳健，收入超4亿元人民币。
According to the 2019 annual report of Ping An Good Doctors, its existing member products grew steadily during the reporting period, with revenues exceeding 400 million yuan.
其中私家医生用户反馈远超均值，用户满意度达到99.85%，月人均问诊量是普通用户的2.7倍，健康课程参与率是普通用户的4倍，处方支付转化率是普通用户的2.3倍，商城下单量是普通用户的2倍。
The average user satisfaction rate was 99.85 per cent, the average number of consultations per month per person was 2.7 times that of the average user, the participation rate of health courses was four times that of the average user, the conversion rate of prescription payments was 2.3 times that of the average user, and the order volume of a commercial city was twice that of an average user.
值得注意的是，在这一份年报中，在线医疗业务的增速则让人眼前一亮。
Remarkably, in this annual report, the growth rate of the online health-care business is impressive.
年报显示，2019年平安好医生总营收50.65亿元，同比增长51.8%，其中核心业务在线医疗贡献收入达8.58亿元，同比增长109%,净亏损持续收窄至7.46亿元，同比减亏18%｡更重要的是，从利润贡献来看，在线医疗业务超越消费型医疗，成为平安好医生第一大利润来源。
The annual report shows that in 2019, Ping An's total revenue was 5,065 million yuan, an increase of 51.8% year-on-year. The core business's online medical contribution revenue reached 858 million yuan, a 109% year-on-year increase.
千亿市场内，挑战与机遇并存根据前瞻产业研究院数据，2018年我国互联网医疗行业规模已达491亿元，预计2020年将突破940亿元，行业未来将进入规范化发展的高速增长期。
In 2018, China's Internet medical industry reached 49.1 billion yuan, and is expected to surpass 94 billion yuan in 2020, ushering in a period of rapid growth of standardized development, according to the Institute for Forward-looking Industries.
在业绩发布会上，王涛说到，“中国的互联网医疗发展已经逐渐从试水探索过渡到规范发展期，而这个期间最大的推动力来自于中国政府实行医疗改革的决心。
"China's Internet medical development has made a gradual transition from test-run to standardized development," Wang said at the performance conference, adding that "the biggest impetus in this period has come from the Chinese government's determination to implement healthcare reform.
”而卫健委近期连续发文表态要大力开展互联网诊疗服务，密集的政策利好有望成为互联网医疗产业发展的助推器。
And Wei Jiangheng recently issued a statement to vigorously develop Internet medical services, intensive policy is expected to become the Internet medical industry development booster.
△图片来自 Pixabay2019年8月下旬，新修订的《中华人民共和国药品管理法》允许处方药在一定条件下可以通过网络进行销售。
Picture from Pixabay2019. The newly amended Drug Administration Law of the People's Republic of China allows prescription drugs to be sold over the Internet under certain conditions.
这在极大程度上扩大了互联网医疗平台的业务范围，也使得其业务链条更加完整，随后的2019年8月30日，国家医保局印发《关于完善“互联网+”医疗服务价格和医保支付政策的指导意见》，首次提出，符合条件的“互联网+”医疗服务可以纳入医保报销范围。
This greatly expanded the scope of Internet-based health-care platforms and improved the integrity of their business chains. Subsequently, on 30 August 2019, the National Health Service issued Guidance on Improving Internet + Health Service Prices and Health Care Payment Policies, which, for the first time, proposed that eligible Internet + health services could be covered by Medicare.
这一举措也将促进互联网医疗进一步在医疗资源流动、医疗效率提升、患者就医体验、医疗成本降低等方面发挥积极作用。
This initiative will also promote greater Internet-based health care in terms of the flow of health-care resources, improved health-care efficiency, patient experience, and lower health-care costs.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，2月4日，国家卫生健康委办公厅发布《关于加强信息化支撑新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》，通知指出，充分发挥各省份远程医疗平台作用，鼓励包括省级定点救治医院在内的各大医院提供远程会诊、防治指导等服务，借助信息技术下沉专家资源，提高基层和社区医疗卫生机构应对处置疫情能力，缓解定点医院诊疗压力，减少人员跨区域传播风险。
On February 4, the office of the State Council for Health issued the Notice on Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Supported by New Coronavirus Infection by Information.The notice noted that provincial telemedicine platforms are fully utilized to encourage major hospitals, including provincial-level fixed-point hospitals, to provide long-distance consultation and prevention and treatment.
《通知》还指出，加快基础网络升级改造，保障医疗信息系统平稳运行，确保疫情防控指挥体系稳定畅通。
The Circular also pointed out that the upgrading of the basic network should be speeded up to ensure the smooth operation of the medical information system and the smooth operation of the epidemic prevention and control command system.
有条件的地方可运用5G等信息技术，提高定点救治医院网络稳定性和传输质量，满足患者救治工作需要。
Where possible, information technology, such as 5G, can be used to improve the network stability and transmission quality of fixed-point treatment hospitals to meet the needs of patients.
这也为互联网医疗的发展提供了更多的支持。
This has also provided more support for the development of Internet medicine.
未来，随着支持政策的不断增多，在此次疫情中表现突出的互联网医疗势必会更值得社会和大众期待。
In the future, with the increasing number of supportive policies, the prominent performance of the Internet medical situation in this epidemic will be more worthy of social and public expectations.
值得注意的是，在政策支持的同时，持续的用户流量也是影响互联网医疗平台生存的重要因素。
It is worth noting that, along with policy support, sustained user traffic is also an important factor affecting the survival of Internet-based medical platforms.
这次疫情为各大互联网医疗平台带来了短期内流量的暴增，但在疫情结束后，如何做到对用户的留存、在线医疗习惯的培养以及变现手段的开拓，这些问题依旧给互联网医疗平台的发展带来不小的挑战。
The epidemic has brought a short-term surge in traffic to major Internet health-care platforms, but after the epidemic, how to retain users, cultivate online medical habits and develop liquidity, these issues continue to pose considerable challenges to the development of Internet-based medical platforms.
对此，王涛表示，“这次疫情对互联网医疗的行业是催化剂，中国人对线上医疗服务的接受度会越来越高，政府对行业的支持力度也会越来越大。
In response, Wang said: "The epidemic is a catalyst for the Internet medical industry, the Chinese people will become more receptive to online medical services, and the government will increasingly support the industry.
这些从中长期来看都是非常大的利好，平安好医生将坚定不移立足优势，为长期可持续的发展努力。
These in the medium and long term are very big positive good, safe good doctor will stick to the advantage steadfastly, for long-term sustainable development effort.
”本文为八点健闻Plus原创。
This article is original for Eight Jiangnan Plus.
八点健闻Plus，聚焦健康商业报道。
Eight Keen Hear Plus, Focus on Health Business Report.
商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922。
Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
千亿互联网医疗将要爆发？平安好医生的年报透露出这些信息。
Hundreds of billions of dollars in Internet health care is about to erupt? Safe Good Doctor's annual report reveals this information.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "千亿互联网医疗将要爆发？平安好医生的年报透露出这些信息";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "中国互联网医疗的瓶颈正逐步打开。
var msg _ desc = & quot; China's Internet medical bottleneck is gradually opening up.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
