“疯抢双黄连”纯属闹剧，真正的中医是这样治新冠的。
"Crazy robbery Shuanghuanglian" is purely farcical, the real Chinese medicine is so new crown.
敏华 卓曌 晔婷。
Ming name is Ye Ye.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
与2003年“非典”不同，中医在第一时间就加入了新冠抗疫治疗。
Unlike SARS in 2003, Chinese medicine first joined the new crown anti-epidemic treatment.
新冠病毒“人传人”对外披露后仅一周，国家版诊疗方案即加入中医“协定方”。
Only a week after the new crown virus was revealed to the public, the national version of the diagnosis and treatment plan is to join the "agreement" of Chinese medicine.
中医国家队认为新冠疫情为“湿疫”，治疗方针以祛湿为主，旨在消除人体内病毒的生存条件。
The national team of traditional Chinese medicine considers the new crown epidemic as "wet plague," the treatment policy is to dispel humidity, aiming at eliminating the human body virus living conditions.
北京、广东两支中医医疗队进驻武汉金银潭医院、中西医结合医院，接手部分病区的患者，迄今疗效显著，副作用更小。
Two medical teams of Chinese medicine from Beijing and Guangdong have been stationed at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Chinese and Western Medicine.
“双黄连抗病毒”闹剧加深民众对中医的质疑，看待中医抗疫应有辩证思维。
"Shuang Huanglian anti-virus" farce deepens people's doubts about TCM, and there should be dialectical thinking about TCM fighting disease.
△受访者供图黄东晖医生一直都记得，1月29日下午，病区阴郁的味道。
Dr. Huang Donghui, the interviewee, always remembers the gloomy smell of the sick area on January 29 afternoon.
武汉那一天是大晴天，阳光透过窗户洒在了刚接手的病区里，但整个病区却像是有一道不透光的墙，压抑极了。
Wuhan that day is a sunny day, the sun through the window just took over the sick area, but the whole area seems to have a wall of opaque, oppressive.
黄东晖是广东省中医院援助湖北医疗队临时党支部书记、队长。
Huang Donghui is the secretary and leader of the temporary Party branch of Hubei Medical Team.
1月27日随广东医疗队抵达武汉之后，60余位中医医疗队的同事接手了湖北省中西医结合医院的两个病区，总计70张床位。
On January 27, following the arrival of the Guangdong Medical Team in Wuhan, more than 60 colleagues from the Chinese Medicine Practitioners' Team took over the two sicknesses of the Hubei Province Combination Hospital, with a total of 70 beds.
这支中医医疗队很特殊，由广东省中医院、广州中医药大学第一附属医院以及广东省第二中医院组成，主要用中西医结合的方式治疗急危重症患者。
This Chinese medicine team is composed of the Guangdong TCM Hospital, the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou TCM University and the Second Chinese Hospital of Guangdong Province.
医疗队的很多人都亲历过2003年“非典”救治，其中国家援助湖北第二支中医医疗队队长、广东省中医院副院长张忠德，以及黄东晖本人甚至被“非典”严重感染过，一度危急，在影像资料中两肺全白，经历死里逃生后，用中医药的治疗方法康复，肺部没有留下任何斑痕，现在游泳、跑步等剧烈运动也能照常进行。
Many members of the medical team witnessed the 2003 SARS treatment.Among them, Zhang Zhongde, the head of the second medical team of Hubei traditional Chinese medicine and vice-president of the Guangdong TCM Hospital, Huang Donghui himself, were seriously infected with SARS.
与此同时，北京医疗队中的一支中医队伍，也在同期进驻武汉金银潭医院、湖北省中西医结合医院。
At the same time, a team of Chinese medicine practitioners from the Beijing Medical Team was stationed in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Hubei Province Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital.
此次疫情防治与17年前的“非典”时期相比最大的不同之一，就是中医很早就加入了治疗队伍，且各级政府不断发文力推。
One of the biggest differences from the SARS epidemic 17 years ago is that Chinese medicine joined the treatment team early, and governments at all levels continued to send messages.
1月20日，就在病毒“人传人”确认后的第二天，首都医科大学附属北京中医医院院长刘清泉就奔赴武汉；1月24日，除夕夜，广东省中医院副院长张忠德一个人先从广州赶往武汉；同一天，中国科学院院士、中国中医科学院广安门医院科研副院长仝小林等人南下，抵达武汉。
On January 20, just the day after the confirmation of the virus, Liu Qingquan, dean of Beijing TCM Hospital attached to the Capital Medical University, rushed to Wuhan on January 24. On January 24, Zhang Zhongde, vice-dean of the Guangdong TCM Hospital, traveled from Guangzhou to Wuhan on January 24.
随后赶到的是中国中医科学院院长黄璐琦院士。
Then came Academician Huang Lulige, president of the Chinese Academy of Chinese Medicine.
1月22日，国家《新冠病毒诊疗方案（第三版）》发布，加入了中医处方建议。
On January 22, the National Program for Diagnosis and Treatment of Newly Coronary Virus (3rd Edition) was published, with suggestions for the prescription of TCM.
1月25日，大年初一，中央会议强调要在抗击疫情期间“加强中西医结合”。
January 25, New Year's Day, the Central Committee stressed the need to "strengthen the integration of Chinese and Western medicine" during the fight against the epidemic.
1月26日，仝小林与中医业内的多位国医大师、专家进行电话会议，商榷中医治疗方案。
January 26, together with the Chinese medicine industry, together with a number of Chinese medicine masters, experts teleconference, to discuss the treatment of Chinese medicine.
1月27日，国家卫健委公布《第四版诊疗方案》，给出了协定方（中医界特指经过一定时间使用，积累了一定的经验和疗效而约定俗成的方子）的具体配伍用量。
On 27 January, the State Council for Health Care published the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Programme, which sets out the exact amount of compatibility between the parties to the agreement (Chinese medicine refers specifically to the prescription that has accumulated certain experience and curative effect after a certain period of time).
从1月20日确认“人传人”起，短短一周之内，国家版诊疗方案中的中医协定方就落定并公布，这样的做法在“非典”时期是没有过的。
Within a week of the confirmation of the "person-to-person" rule on Jan. 20, Chinese medicine practitioners in national versions of the protocol were set up and announced, a practice not seen during the SARS epidemic.
疫情急迫，病毒传播速度惊人，确定诊疗方向甚为重要。
The urgency of the epidemic, the speed of transmission of the virus, determine the direction of diagnosis and treatment is important.
既然是“协定方”，则意味着是供参考用的方子，后续再可根据各地差异，进行方剂调整。
As a "party to the agreement," it is meant to be a reference for reference, and can then be adjusted according to local differences.
无论是17年前的“非典”，还是新冠肺炎，中医药在此类疫情中的作用时常被坊间提及，却又屡屡被遗忘在大众的视野之外。
Whether it was SARS 17 years ago or New Crown Pneumonia, the role of TCM in such outbreaks is often mentioned, but it is often forgotten.
它究竟是一种充满争议的经验医学，还是确有疗效的系统医学？如果“非典”时期中医在北京、广东的治疗中功不可没，它治病背后的道理是什么，这回还能用得上么？患者病情比想象严重，个别人抗拒中药1月29日是黄东晖查房的第一天。
Is it a controversial experiential medicine, or is it really effective systemic medicine? What is the rationale behind its treatment in Beijing and Guangdong during the SARS period?
从第一间病房，到最后一间病房，每查一间病房，压力就徒增几分——患者非常虚弱，询问病情的时候，基本上声音都发不出来，气喘干咳得厉害。
From the first ward to the last ward, every ward checked, the pressure increased a little - the patient was so weak that he could hardly speak out when asked about his illness, and he coughed heavily.
“给他们切脉，大多数是沉脉、滑数脉，舌苔厚腻，发烧严重，便秘干结，好几天都拉不出来，也没什么胃口。
'Give them veins, mostly veins, veins, thickly coated tongue, a fever, constipation, for several days can not pull out, and no appetite.
”虽然医疗队有抗击“非典”的经验，也做好了充分的准备，但走进隔离病区的时候，黄东晖仍感觉比想象中要严重，压力也很大。
Although the medical team had experience in fighting SARS and was well prepared, Huang still felt worse and more stressed when he walked into the quarantine area.
当时，病区改造条件尚未完善，监护仪等医疗设备都没有，交叉感染的危险很大。
At that time, the conditions for the improvement of the disease area, monitoring equipment and other medical equipment are not available, cross-infection risk is very high.
令医护人员压力更大的是患者的病情，这里两个病区的患者，以老年人居多，最高年龄达到90多岁，很多患者还伴有高血压、糖尿病等基础性疾病，颇为棘手。
Even more stressful for health-care workers is the patient's illness, which is more common in the two regions, with the highest number of patients reaching their 90s, many of whom suffer from basic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes.
在中医理论中，情绪与疾病息息相关，黄东晖所在的中医医疗队更是深谙此道。
In TCM theory, emotion is closely related to disease, and Huang Donghui's TCM medical team is well aware of it.
他回忆道，1月29日第一次查房时，医疗队就和病人们说，“我们是从广东过来的，有着非常成熟的经验，我们来了，你们放心，你们会没事的。
"We are from Guangdong, we have very mature experience, we are here, you can rest assured, you will be all right," he recalled.
尤其是我们的队长（张忠德副院长）当年被“非典”击倒的时候，情况要比你严重多了，也被中西医结合方案救了过来，所以你一定要相信我们，你一定会没事的。
In particular, when our captain (Vice President Zhongde Zhang) was knocked down by SARS, the situation was much worse than you, and was saved by the combination of Chinese and Western medicine, so you must believe us, you will be all right.
”△受访者供图黄东晖回忆，当患者听到这些的时候，“他们没什么体力，很虚弱，都挣扎着坐起来，双手合十作揖，来感谢我们。
When patients heard about this, "they don't have much energy, they're very weak, they all struggle to sit up and come to us with all their hands on their hands," recalls Wang Donghui.
就说一定要我们把他救下来，他们还有很多牵挂。
Just say we have to save him. They still have a lot to worry about.
”第一次查房后，黄东晖和同事们工作到深夜。
After the first house search, Huang worked late into the night with his colleagues.
他们参考国家版协定方，仔细商定中医治疗方案。
They carefully agreed on a Chinese medicine treatment plan, drawing on national versions of the agreement.
第二天一大早，熬好的中药就被送进了病房。
Early the next morning, the good Chinese medicine was sent to the ward.
但有些患者的抵触情绪给医护人员们泼了一盆冷水。
But the resistance of some patients has poured cold water on doctors and nurses.
他说，至今还有一两个患者拒绝喝中药。
One or two patients have so far refused to take Chinese medicine, he said.
只能靠医护软磨硬泡，或者重新调整方案。
It can only be a matter of medical care, or a re-adjustment.
黄东晖说，他们虽然是中医医疗队，但在具体治疗过程中强调中西医协同治疗，原则是看哪个方案对病情更有帮助，危重症患者尤其要用中西医结合的方式治疗。
Huang said that although they are a Chinese medicine team, but in the specific treatment process, the emphasis on Chinese and Western medicine co-treatment, the principle is to see which program is more helpful to the disease, critically ill patients should be particularly treated with a combination of Chinese and Western medicine.
遇到基础疾病较多的患者，医疗队就会通过远程会诊手段，集全国的中医专家智慧和力量来制定治疗方案。
In the case of patients with more basic diseases, the medical team will use tele-consultation to bring together the wisdom and strength of Chinese medicine experts from all over the country to work out a treatment plan.
“我们还担心患者出院后的肺纤维化，这个如果不注意，会给患者日后的生活各方面造成很大的伤害。
"We are also concerned about pulmonary fibrosis after discharge, which, if left unattended, can do great harm to many aspects of life later in life.
”很多患者非常焦虑，医生们也用了很多时间做心理疏导。
Many patients are very anxious, and doctors spend a lot of time doing psychological counseling.
最令黄东晖感动的是，刚开始去给患者做治疗时，很多人的表情都极为淡漠。
The most moving Huang Donghui, just started to do treatment for the patients, many people's expression is extremely indifferent.
而现在，“只要一接近他们，马上就拿手挡住说，不要靠近我，会传染给你们。
And now, as soon as you get close to them, stop by and say, Don't come near me, it will infect you.
”在他看来，人与人之间这种情感，通过这种细微的动作就体现出来，非常温暖。
It seemed to him that this feeling between men, expressed by such little gestures, was very warm.
2月5日，黄东晖负责病区的第一位重症患者出院了。
On February 5, Huang Donghui in charge of the first serious patient discharged from the hospital.
她是一名37岁的女性，一开始拒服中药，但在服用中药的第一天，高烧基本就退了。
She was a 37-year-old woman who initially refused to take traditional Chinese medicine, but on her first day of taking Chinese medicine, her fever was almost gone.
在服药第二天时，身体整体情况更为好转，说了五句话后，才稍微喘一下。
On the second day of taking the medicine, the general condition improved even more. After five words, he took a little breath.
大便也有了明显变化，从开始的便秘到黄色成型。
There has also been a marked change in stools, from constipation at the beginning to yellow molding.
舌苔开始变得淡薄，脉象也开始变得平稳。
The tongue began to grow thin, and the pulse began to flatten.
身体可以坐起来，也可以下床稍微走一下。
You can sit up or walk out of bed for a while.
出院那天，她自己都不敢相信，说如果不是医护人员的专业治疗和精心照顾，可能现在都出不了院。
On the day of her discharge, she could not believe that she might not be able to leave the hospital without the professional care and attention of the medical staff.
元宵节那天，这名女患者还录了个视频，给还在和疾病抗争的病友们加油，分享她的抗病经验。
On the Lantern Festival, the woman also recorded a video to cheer up her sick friends who were struggling with the disease and share her experience of fighting disease.
迄今，黄东晖所在的病区共收治了60名患者，除了4人是轻症，其他都是重症或危重症。
So far, 60 patients have been admitted to Huangdonhui's disease area, with the exception of four who are mild and others who are critically ill or critically ill.
目前，已有19名患者出院，还有22名患者转到了缓冲病房（符合出院标准转至缓冲病房）。
At present, 19 patients have been discharged from the hospital and 22 patients have been transferred to the buffer ward (meeting discharge criteria for transfer to the buffer ward).
重症患者中，经过中医治疗，起效很快，疗效明显。
In severe cases, after TCM treatment, the effect is quick, the effect is obvious.
病房的欢笑声多了起来。
There was much laughter in the ward.
有些病区的患者会一起打打八段锦，或者看一些小品、相声的视频，转移注意力。
Some patients in the affected areas will play together, or to see some sketches, crosstalk video, diverting attention.
张忠德在2月14日晚间的湖北疫情新闻发布会上说，截至2月13日12时，广东中医医疗队累计收治116名患者，其中重症85例，危重病人14例，轻症8例。
As of 12: 00 on February 13, the Guangdong Medical Team had treated 116 patients, of whom 85 were seriously ill, 14 were critically ill and 8 were mild, Zhang Zhongde said at a press conference on the Hubei epidemic on the night of February 14.
目前，已出院的患者有19例，另有22名患者符合出院标准，但尚在缓冲病房留观。
At present, 19 patients have been discharged from the hospital and another 22 patients have met the discharge criteria but are still in the buffer ward.
北京中医医疗队的带队人是黄璐琦院士，这支队伍也有40名医护人员，负责金银潭医院的一个病区42张床位。
The team, led by Academician Huang Liuqi, also has 40 medical staff and is responsible for a 42-bed ward at the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital.
截至2月14日12时，累计收治86名患者，其中重症65例，危重症两例。
As at 1200 hours on 14 February, 86 patients had been admitted, of whom 65 were critically ill and two were critically ill.
目前已出院33人，其中八人为纯中医治疗。
At present, 33 people have been discharged from hospital, eight of whom are treated by pure Chinese medicine.
黄璐琦表示，33名出院患者（包括中西医结合与纯中医治疗）与医院里的西医治疗组做了对照观察，结果显示“在发热、咳嗽、乏力、咽干、心慌、食欲减退等十个症状，比西医组有明显改善”，而且“中西医结合组的平均住院时间，显著少于西医组”。
Huang said a comparison of 33 patients discharged from the hospital, including combination of Chinese and Western medicine and pure Chinese medicine, with Western medicine treatment showed that "ten symptoms, such as fever, cough, fatigue, pharynx, panic attacks and loss of appetite, were significantly better than those in the Western medicine group.
△受访者供图“非典”亲历者挂帅此次疫情中，中医在第一时间就得以介入治疗工作，与17年前“非典”时期发挥作用密切相关。
Respondents to the 2007 SARS outbreak showed that Chinese medicine practitioners were able to intervene in the first place, which is closely related to the role played by SARS 17 years ago.
此次驻守武汉两家医院的北京医疗队和广东医疗队，二者的领队都是“非典”一线临床治疗的亲历者。
Both the Beijing medical team and the Guangdong medical team stationed at two hospitals in Wuhan were experienced first-line SARS clinical treatment.
“非典”对张忠德是刻骨铭心的记忆。
"SARS" is an unforgettable memory for Zhang Zhongde.
他当时是在抢救患者的一线，不幸感染SARS病毒，濒临病危，在中医介入治疗后逐渐康复，没有留下任何后遗症。
He was in the front line of rescue patients, unfortunately infected with SARS virus, on the verge of dying, after TCM intervention treatment gradually recovered, without leaving any after-effects.
当时护士长叶欣与其病床相邻，病情更危重，张忠德眼看着并肩作战的同事经抢救无效离世，万分悲痛。
At that time, head nurse Ye Xin and his bed adjacent to the more critical condition, Zhang Zhongde watched the side-by-side colleagues through rescue failed to die, deeply grieved.
此次来武汉，他比其他同事先到的那几天里，一直睡不好觉，最担心的就是队员防护，他希望把同事们“健健康康带过来，也把他们平平安安带回去，一个人都不少 ”。
This visit to Wuhan, he has been more than the other days in advance of the sleep, the most worrying is the team defense, he hopes to bring colleagues "health and well-being, also bring them back safely, a lot of people.
欣慰的是，广东医疗队目前安然无恙。
Thankfully, the Guangdong medical team is now safe and sound.
广东当年收治“非典”患者主要有三家医院，除了张忠德所在的广东省中医院，还有一家是钟南山院士领导的广州医学院第一附属医院（下称广医一院），另一家是国医大师邓铁涛所在的广州中医药大学第一附属医院。
There were three hospitals for SARS patients in Guangdong, including the Guangdong Tongde Hospital, where Zhang Zhongde was based, the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical School, headed by Academician Zhong Nan Shan (hereinafter referred to as Guangzhou Medical College), and the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou TCM University, where Dr. Deng Tietao worked.
广医一院在“非典”后曾发表一篇名为《SARS中医药介入71例临床研究》的论文，揭示治疗结果，认为中西医结合治疗组的患者发热、胸闷、咳嗽、汗出、乏力等症状的严重程度得到显著改善，提出“中药早期介入使用，是SARS成败的关键”，并“可阻断病情向重症肺炎发展而直接进入恢复期”。
After SARS, the hospital published a paper entitled "Clinical Study of 71 Cases of SARS TCM Intervention," which revealed the treatment results and showed that the severity of symptoms such as fever, tightness, cough, sweating and fatigue had been significantly improved.
根据论文统计，71人接受中医介入治疗，死亡1人，死亡率仅1.4%。
According to the statistics of the paper, 71 people were treated with TCM intervention and 1 died, with a mortality rate of only 1.4%.
这篇论文亦有钟南山并列署名。
The thesis is also co-signed by Zhong Nan Shan.
“非典”的经验对此次广东应对冠状病毒感染的肺炎有着直接影响。
The experience of SARS has a direct impact on Guangdong's response to the pneumonia of coronavirus infection.
1月28日，钟南山在接受新华社的采访时说，“我们也在考虑中医的作用，中医一开始就要介入，别到最后不行了才看。
"We are also considering the role of traditional Chinese medicine," Zhong told Xinhua on January 28. "Traditional Chinese medicine should be involved from the very beginning.
在广东就是这么做，在很多地方也这么做。
This has been done in Guangdong, and in many places as well.
”他所在的广医一院此次也收治新冠肺炎患者，尤其是危重症。
His hospital, the Quang Yin Hospital, is also treating patients with pneumonia, especially the most serious.
北京医疗队也不乏“非典”亲历者。
The Beijing medical team is also full of SARS veterans.
此次国家版协定方的拟订人仝小林就是其中的一员，“非典”时期他在中日友好医院的临床一线。
This version of the agreement between the parties to the agreement, together with Xiao Lin is one of them, "SARS" he in the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital clinical front.
2004年世界卫生组织发表《中西医结合治疗的临床试验》报告，仝小林参与了其中内容，对北京的11例纯中医药治疗进行了临床观察，其结论是：普通SARS患者可以单独使用中药成功治疗；中药对退热、恢复淋巴细胞水平和促进炎症吸收有良好疗效；肝肾功能及常规血液测试显示，中药没有明显毒性或副作用；使用中药治疗，可以避免大量使用激素和抗病毒药物的毒副作用。
In 2004, the World Health Organization published a report on the Clinical Trials of Combination Therapy in Chinese and Western Medicine, in which Xiao-lin participated, and concluded that 11 cases of pure Chinese medicine in Beijing could be successfully treated by TCM alone.
数位曾亲历“非典”治疗的医生均表示，中医介入治疗后，明显降低激素使用，无论是广东还是北京，“非典”患者后遗症的问题大大减少。
Several doctors who have experienced SARS treatment say that after TCM intervention, hormonal use has been markedly reduced, and the sequelae of SARS patients, whether in Guangdong or Beijing, have been greatly reduced.
广东一方制药在“非典”后期负责给各家收治医院供应中药颗粒剂，当时参与其中的一位负责人记得，初期有一位广州的医生用了大量激素，留下了肺纤维化、肺不张的问题，“后来见到他，不能伸直身体，走路也只能趴着。
One of the officials involved in Guangdong, which supplied granules to hospitals in the late SARS period, remembers an early Guangzhou doctor who used a lot of hormones and left pulmonary fibrosis and atelectasis. "I couldn't straighten up and could only walk on my stomach.
后来的患者用了中药，反而发现普遍好转快，最后钟南山才总结出来，要用中药。
Later the patient used traditional Chinese medicine, but found that the general improvement is fast, Zhong Nan Shan finally summed up, to use Chinese medicine.
”上海主导“非典”中医治疗的是国医大师颜德馨教授，当时他的团队在上海传染病医院隔离病房问诊，还对江浙沪其他地区的“非典”病人进行远程会诊。
The dominant SARS Chinese medicine treatment in Shanghai was provided by the master of Chinese medicine, Professor Yan Dexin, whose team consulted the isolation ward of the Shanghai Infectious Diseases Hospital and conducted remote consultations with SARS patients in other parts of Zhejiang and Shanghai.
参与其中的一位华山医院医生回忆，SARS起病迅疾，用西药退烧会出现反复，而中药一般用三天左右，体温就逐渐下来。
One of the doctors involved in the Huashan Hospital recalled that SARS started quickly, with Western medicine will be repeated fever, and traditional Chinese medicine used about three days, the temperature gradually down.
“颜德馨带着自己七八个徒弟，每天督阵，给患者汤药一天两到三次，有时候一天改一次方，患者症状改善非常明显。
"With her seven or eight apprentices, Yan Dexin daily warden, giving patients two to three doses of medicine a day, sometimes once a day to change the prescription, the patient's symptoms significantly improved.
”这位医生还记得，北京当时有不少患者出现了股骨头坏死、肺大泡、肺不张的后遗症，原因是早期会用3-5克甲强龙（糖皮质激素）。
The doctor also remembers how many patients in Beijing suffered from necrosis of the femoral head, alveoli and atelectasis due to the early use of 3-5 grams of methylammonium (glucocorticoid).
“那时候，广州的邓铁涛没有反对用激素，但提出中药对于减少激素剂量有帮助。
"At the time, Deng Tiitao of Guangzhou was not opposed to hormone use, but suggested that it would help to reduce hormone doses.
于是，他在广州主导用中医汤药的做法，从结果看，中西医结合后，激素的用量明显下降了。
Therefore, he dominated the use of traditional Chinese medicine soup in Guangzhou, from the results, after the combination of Chinese and Western medicine, hormone dosage significantly decreased.
”病机在“湿疫”钟南山1月20日对外确认新冠病毒可以“人传人”后的一周内，国家版诊疗意见就给出了中医治疗的协定方，后更名为“清肺排毒汤”，把临床治疗分为四个阶段，包括初期（寒湿郁肺）、中期（疫毒闭肺）、重症期（内闭外脱）以及恢复期（肺脾气虚），分别给出了简洁、具体的推荐处方。
Within a week of confirmation that the virus could be passed from person to person, the national version of the diagnosis and treatment gave the Chinese medicine treatment agreement, later renamed Qingfei Detoxification Soup, which divides clinical treatment into four stages, including initial (cold and wet), mid-term (viral), severe (closed) and convalescent (pulmonary deficiency).
对于新冠病毒，西医治疗的思路是如何对抗病毒本身。
For the new crown virus, the idea of Western medicine treatment is how to fight the virus itself.
目前，业界对一款尚未上市的抗病毒药瑞德西韦（Remdesivir）寄予厚望，但其临床试验最早也要到今年4-5月份才有结果。
The industry has high hopes for a yet-to-be-marketed antiviral drug, Remdesivir, but clinical trials will not come to fruition until April-May at the earliest.
与之相较，中医的治疗思路不同，简而言之，中医更关注改变人体自身的内环境，消除病毒的生存条件。
In short, Chinese medicine is more concerned with changing the internal environment of the body and eliminating the living conditions of the virus.
国医大师邓铁涛闻名于广东“非典”救治，当年他所在的医院收治“非典”病人73例，全部治愈，零死亡、零感染、零转院、零后遗症。
Deng Tiitao, a master of Chinese medicine, was famous for his treatment of SARS in Guangdong, where 73 SARS patients were treated, all cured, with zero deaths, zero infections, zero referrals and zero sequelae.
他撰文详述了他的中医辨证思路，总结为“扶人正气，使邪有出路”。
He wrote a detailed account of his dialectical thinking of TCM, summed up as "to help people, so that evil has a way out."
但因引经据典古文居多，很难为大众所理解。
However, it is difficult for the public to understand the ancient classics as they are quoted.
这一次的协定方出台后，仝小林院士用通俗的语言做了一番解释，他认为：这次新冠肺炎属于“湿疫”，今年是个暖冬，有些地方该下雪的时候不下雪，地气有点暖。
This time after the agreement, with the common language to explain, crowne with the New Crown Pneumonia is "wet plague," this is a warm winter, some places should snow when the snow, a little warmer.
然后又连续下雨，2019年12月的武汉就是如此，连续16天，又出现了一个寒湿环境，病毒容易滋生蔓延。
Then it rained again, as happened in Wuhan in December 2019, where for 16 consecutive days, a cold and wet environment appeared and the virus spread easily.
因此，此次国家版诊疗方案协定方的治疗方法主要是针对寒和湿，其中治疗寒邪，用温散、透邪、用辛温解表的方法；治疗湿邪，要避秽化浊。
Therefore, the national version of the protocol agreement treatment methods are mainly for cold and wet, where cold and evil treatment, using mild, evil, and Xintiao the way; treatment of dampness, to avoid turbidity.
仝小林在问诊患者时发现，无论是ICU的危重症患者，还是轻症患者，舌苔都呈现厚腻腐苔，表明湿浊现象严重。
When visiting patients with cu xiao lin, it is found that whether the critically ill ICU patients, or light patients, the tongue coating is thick rot, indicating that the phenomenon of turbidity.
中医治疗的思路就在于改变人体内环境“湿浊”的状况，初期用到麻黄、藿香、苍术等药微微透湿，中期则用《伤寒论》麻杏石甘汤的治病思路，也重在祛湿。
The idea of TCM treatment is to change the condition of "turbid" environment in human body. In the beginning, we use the medicine of Ephedra, Patchouli and Atractylodes.
邓铁涛在其“非典”经验的论文中很早就提示，此类病毒依赖内湿环境而生存的事实。
Deng Tiitao, in his "SARS" experience paper, has long suggested that such viruses depend on the fact that they live in a wet environment.
湿热难治，最易缠绵，这也是为什么新冠病毒的很多患者会出现在西医退烧药等的作用下，平稳了一段时间，突然又出现症状急剧加重的情况。
Humidity and heat are difficult to treat, which is why many patients with the new crown virus will appear in the Western medicine antipyretic effect, a period of stability, and suddenly a sharp increase in symptoms.
邓铁涛在论文中说，“退热针退热，而不知应以微汗出才能祛邪，大汗淋漓病必不除。
Deng Tiitao said in the paper, "antifebrile needle antifebrile, do not know should be able to sweat out evil, sweating dripping disease must not be removed.
大汗能退一时之热，过后又热。
Great perspiration repels the heat of the moment, then of the heat.
”中医的对症施治，表面上看是一种独有的透湿、祛湿的方法，背后则是与西医完全不同的治病路径。
The symptomatic treatment of traditional Chinese medicine, on the surface, is a unique method of moisturizing, dehumidification, and behind is a completely different approach to Western medicine.
黄东晖说，他所在的病区使用协定方后，患者平均在服用到三天左右退烧，并且不再有反复发烧的情况。
Huang said that after using the agreement in his area, the patient was on average taking about three days to reduce fever and no more cases of recurrent fever.
仝小林特别提到，因为寒湿是病机，因此治疗过程中要减少不必要的输液，过度输液会加重寒湿。
Ci Xiaolin in particular mentioned, because cold and wet is the pathogenesis, so treatment process to reduce unnecessary infusion, excessive infusion will aggravate dampness.
除了祛湿，协定方的另一个重点是调理脾胃，扶持人体正气（即西医理解的免疫力）。
In addition to dehumidification, the other focus of the agreement is to regulate the spleen and stomach, support the human body Qi (that is, Western medicine understand immunity).
仝小林在接受媒体采访时说，他在问诊武汉的患者时发现，大多数患者有脾胃症状，而且非常典型，比如周身倦怠乏力、食欲不好，恶心、呕吐，腹泻或便秘等等，所以方剂里包含了调理脾胃的理中汤、六君子汤等构成。
In an interview with the media, Xiao Lin said that when he consulted Wuhan patients, he found that most patients have spleen and stomach symptoms, and very typical, such as tired body, poor appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation, so the prescription contains the spleen and stomach of Lizhong soup, six gentleman soup and so on.
1月27日，《第四版诊疗方案》公布后，国家中医药局确定了山西、河北、黑龙江和陕西四个省试点清肺排毒汤。
On 27 January, following the publication of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Programme, the State Bureau of Traditional Chinese Medicine identified four provinces -- Shanxi, Hebei, Heilongjiang and Shaanxi -- to pilot Qingfei Detoxification Soup.
据国家中医药管理局消息，截至2月4日，四个省份用该协定方救治214例确诊病例，三天为一个疗程，总有效率达90%以上，其中60%以上患者症状和影像学表现改善明显，30%患者患者针状平稳且无加重。
According to the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, as of February 4, 214 confirmed cases had been treated by the parties to the agreement for three days, for a total efficiency of more than 90 per cent, with over 60 per cent showing significant improvement in symptoms and imaging, and 30 per cent of patients with stable needles without any increase.
这是自新冠病毒疫情爆发以来，具有临床数据依据的结果。
This is the result for which clinical data are available since the outbreak of the new crown virus.
南北地域条件差异较大，在这次疫情中，广东推广的“肺炎一号”与国家版协定方相比较，在具体中药配伍上就有较大的区别，但同样取得了较好的疗效。
In this case, the "Pneumonia I" promoted by Guangdong Province is quite different from the other parties to the national version of the agreement, but it has also achieved good results.
广州第八人民医院在50例轻证患者中，经一周临床治疗观察，50%患者咳嗽症状消失，52.4%咽痛症状消失，69.6%乏力症状消失，无一例患者转重症。
After a week of clinical treatment, 50% of the patients in Guangzhou Eighth People's Hospital had no cough symptoms, 52.4% pharyngeal pain symptoms disappeared, 69.6% asthenia symptoms disappeared, and no patients were referred to serious disease.
2月4日起，广东“肺炎一号”就在获批后启动生产，供应全省轻症患者。
From February 4, Guangdong "Pneumonia No. 1" after being approved to start production, supply the province's light patients.
此后，中医治疗新冠肺炎的做法纷纷被各省市所采纳，加之国家层面力推，据不完全公开信息统计，河南、浙江、广东、贵州、湖南、山东等诸多省份都纷纷推广新冠肺炎的中医治疗。
Since then, the practice of treating pneumonia in Chinese medicine has been adopted by the provinces and municipalities, and the state-level push, according to statistics that are not completely open to the public, has promoted the TCM treatment of New Crown Pneumonia in many provinces, including Henan, Zhejiang, Guangdong, Guizhou, Hunan and Shandong.
与全国其他省市相比，湖北省新冠肺炎治疗的中医药参与度还有不少距离。
Compared with other provinces and cities in China, Hubei Province Xinguan Pneumonia treatment of Chinese medicine participation is still a lot of distance.
参与武汉一线治疗的梁腾霄医生透露，这是因为湖北的患者太多了，而中医资源又太少的缘故。
Dr. Liang Tengxiao, who is involved in first-line treatment in Wuhan, revealed that there are too many patients in Hubei province and too few traditional Chinese medicine resources.
即便是国家版诊疗方案里给出了协定方，中医治疗还是要依靠医生针对每个病人的具体情况，拟订个性化的中药汤剂。
Even if the protocol is given in the national version of the protocol, TCM treatment depends on the doctor to develop a personalized Chinese medicine decoction for each patient.
但这对没有中医储备的很多西医院而言，难度太大了。
But this is too difficult for many Western hospitals that do not have a reserve of traditional Chinese medicine.
“打个比方，一个做惯了西餐的厨师，突然让他一定要做‘宫保鸡丁’，他就很不适应了。
"For example, a cook used to Western food, suddenly let him do 'palace chicken Ding', he is very uncomfortable.
”梁腾霄医生说。
'said Doctor Leung.
泥沙俱下，双黄连闹剧尽管政府力推，但中医在湖北各地医院依然难以落地，医生尚不能理解，民众更难鉴别。
In spite of the government's efforts, traditional Chinese medicine is still difficult to land in hospitals across Hubei province.
在疫情迅速升级的几天里，中医药还出现了各种鱼龙混杂的声音，尤其是一场围绕双黄连的大众疯抢。
During the days of rapid escalation, there were mixed voices in TCM, especially a frenzied mass murder around Shuanghuanglian.
1月31日深夜，有官方媒体首发了一条消息：上海药研所、武汉病毒所联合发现，中成药双黄连口服液可抑制新型冠状病毒。
Late on January 31, state media first sent a message: Shanghai Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Wuhan virus joint discovery, Chinese patent medicine Shuanghuanglian oral liquid can inhibit the new coronavirus.
消息提到，双黄连口服液由金银花、黄芩、连翘三味中药组成，并称现代医学研究认为，双黄连口服液具有广谱抗病毒、抑菌、提高机体免疫功能的作用。
The source said that Shuang Huanglian oral liquid is composed of honeysuckle, Scutellaria baicalensis and Forsythia TCM, and modern medical research suggests that Shuanghuanglian oral liquid has a broad spectrum of anti-virus, bacteriostatic, improve the immune function of the body.
消息一出，传播飞速，双黄连口服液被民众疯抢，成为继口罩之后的新的抢手货。
News, the spread of rapid, Shuanghuanglian oral liquid by the public crazy robbed, become a new after the mask of the new hot.
但很快，质疑的声音出现。
But soon, the voice of doubt appeared.
上海药研所对此回应称，“初步发现双黄连对病毒有抑制作用”，“目前还没有详细研究”，“只是在武汉病毒所做了一个初步的验证”，“后续会在上海是临床医学（研究）中心做一些试验”。
In response, the Shanghai Institute of Pharmacy said, "preliminary findings of Shuanghuanglian virus inhibition," "there is no detailed study," "only a preliminary test done in Wuhan virus," and "follow-up in Shanghai is clinical medicine (research) center to do some experiments."
至于抑制病毒的说法是否准确，药研所给出了确认的回答，但也承认了这一结论仅仅是基于实验室体外研究的结果，接下来还要通过进一步的临床研究来证实。
As for the accuracy of the claims that the virus was suppressed, the Institute gave a confirmed answer, but acknowledged that the conclusion was based solely on the results of in vitro laboratory studies, which will be confirmed by further clinical studies.
不少业内专家指出，严谨的临床试验，才是证明是否有效的判断标准。
Many industry experts point out that rigorous clinical trials, is the test of the effectiveness of the test.
上海市防控新冠肺炎中医药专家组成员张炜提出，不建议市民自行服用双黄连来预防新冠病毒。
Zhang Wei, a member of the Shanghai Expert Group on Preventing and Controlling New Crown Pneumonia, said people were not advised to take the drug themselves to prevent the new crown virus.
最早奔赴武汉治疗过患者的北京中医医院院长刘清泉更是强调，并不是所有人群都适合服用双黄连，“双黄连是一个苦寒的药，有的人脾胃虚寒的话，吃着肯定会不舒服，会伤脾胃。
Liu Qingquan, director of the Beijing Chinese Medicine Hospital who went to Wuhan to treat patients, stressed that not all people were fit to take Shuanghuanglian. "Shuanghuanglian is a bitter cold medicine, some people have a cold spleen and stomach, eating will certainly uncomfortable, will hurt the spleen and stomach.
”双黄连的出场，是疫情爆发以来众多与中医相关的“闹剧”之一。
Shuang Huanglian's appearance is one of many "farce" related to TCM since the outbreak.
事实上，对于中医的辨证施治，并不能以西医的思路来简单看待，比如不能以割裂的方式，去验证使用某味中药会对病毒产生何种直接的效果。
In fact, the treatment of TCM syndromes can not be viewed as Western medicine, such as can not be separated to verify that the use of a certain flavor of Chinese medicine will have a direct effect on the virus.
如此，既是对中医的曲解，也不利于真正的中西医结合诊疗。
This is not only the misinterpretation of TCM, but also is not conducive to the true combination of Chinese and Western medicine.
季敏华|撰稿微信号：janejiminhua谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: janejiminhua Tam & # 44; # 124; Writing microsignal: tzz19930706 Wu selected and selected; Writing microsignal: wytlucky19 We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“疯抢双黄连”纯属闹剧，真正的中医是这样治新冠的。
"Crazy robbery Shuanghuanglian" is purely farcical, the real Chinese medicine is so new crown.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "“疯抢双黄连”纯属闹剧，真正的中医是这样治新冠的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; genuine TCM.
var msg_desc = "对照观察发现，中西医结合疗效显著。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Control observation found that combination of Chinese and Western medicine was effective.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
