武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员。
Wuhan running errands: from the fitness instructor to the courier.
杨长安。
Chang'an Yang.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
文|杨长安情人节后的第二天，辛野开始帮助在外地回不了武汉的人喂宠物。
The day after Valentine's Day, Sino began helping people who couldn't get back to Wuhan feed their pets.
在此之前，这位健身教练在仅有一个棉质口罩的情况下，为不能出门的武汉居民送了九天的食物和生活用品。
Before that, the trainer had given Wuhan residents who could not go out with only a cotton mask for nine days of food and supplies.
二月的武汉还很寒冷，注册为临时跑腿员的辛野，在连续多日骑车送货后，感冒了。
Wuhan in February is still very cold, registered as a temporary runner Xin No, after days of delivering goods by bike, caught a cold.
居家休整一段时间，确认身体已经没问题后，辛野重新开始了帮助他人的行动。
After spending some time at home making sure her health was all right, Sino resumed her efforts to help others.
以下是辛野的自述：1月23号，我醒来看到封城的消息，发现朋友圈都在抢菜。
I woke up on January 23rd to see the news of the cityscape, and saw that my friends were robbing for food.
我想即使不抢菜我也得买点吃的。
I think I'll have to get something to eat even if I don't grab some vegetables.
然后我就去超市买了两包方便面，看到很多店铺在卖口罩，我就想要不买点口罩。
Then I went to the supermarket to buy two bags of instant noodles, and saw many shops selling masks, I wanted to buy some masks.
但转念一想，我好像也不需要，就回家了。
But on second thought, I didn't seem to need it, so I went home.
那时对疫情不了解，我对封城完全是懵的。
At that time did not know the epidemic situation, I was completely stunned by the closure.
本来以为封城只是不能乘坐交通工具，门还是可以出的，包括封城一两天之后我出门感觉戴口罩的人也不算多。
Originally thought that the city is only unable to travel, the door can still be out, including a day or two after the closure of the city I feel wearing masks not too many people.
但后来出了数据，我才知道疫情已经这么严重。
But then the data came out and I knew the epidemic was so serious.
有跑腿的想法，是因为某天在群里看到很多人说出不了门，没办法买菜，或者家里小孩奶粉都快吃不上了，外卖小哥又人手不足，下了单能不能被接全凭运气。
The idea of running errands is because one day in the group to see many people can not say the door, no way to buy vegetables, or the family milk powder are almost no longer available, take-out brother and insufficient staff, under the single can be accepted by luck.
我看了心里很难过，就决定为武汉人民出一份力。
I read the heart very sad, and decided to Wuhan people out of a force.
我身体好免疫力强，可以给不能出门的人们送生活用品。
My body is good immunity, can give people who can not go out to send daily necessities.
总不能让大家饿着不是？我的家人都在内蒙古老家，也没打算告诉他们我跑腿的事。
My family are all in my hometown in Inner Mongolia, and I'm not going to tell them about my errands.
做这件事之前我已经做好了心理准备，所以哪怕买不到口罩，没有防护服，没有护目镜，我也坚持送到了10号。
I was ready to do this, so even if I couldn't buy a mask, no protective clothing, and no goggles, I insisted on sending it to Number 10.
平均下来我每天大概能接五单左右，每一单十几二十块钱。
On average, I can take about five orders a day, a dozen or twenty dollars each.
我买菜是四五单一起买，备菜、排队、买单差不多花掉五个小时，送单又会花掉两个小时，到下午六点电动车没电我才会回家。
It took me four or five hours to get everything ready, to stand in line, to pay the bill, and two more hours to deliver the order.
基本上所有单都会超时，因为光是抢菜和排队就会花掉很长时间，但客人都能理解。
Basically, all orders run out of time because it takes a long time just to grab food and line up, but the guests understand.
辛野跑腿时买的菜开始几天抢菜情况挺严重的，后面稍微缓解了一些。
Xin-no when running errands to buy vegetables for a few days at the beginning of the situation is quite serious, after a bit of relief.
超市目前相对缺主食类的货，比如挂面，方便面，面粉，饺子等等，肉类、火腿肠也比较难买，青菜类供应得还行。
Supermarkets are relatively short of staple foods, such as noodles, instant noodles, flour, dumplings, meat, sausages are also more difficult to buy, vegetables are available.
最近，因为大家不出门有一阵了，对米、面、酱油、盐、水果的需求量多了起来，订单里还有要卫生巾的。
Recently, because everyone did not go out for a while, to rice, noodles, soy sauce, salt, fruit demand up, orders for sanitary towels.
有一次给一户被隔离的家庭送菜，我车没电了，就骑共享单车去送。
Once I delivered food to an isolated family. When my car ran out of electricity, I rode a shared bike to deliver it.
那天我车筐放了一包，两个龙头各挂了一包，很沉，所以骑得慢。
That day I put a bag in the basket, two faucets hung a bag, very heavy, so slow to ride.
这位客人一直强调让我放在小区门口就行，他过后再下来拿。
The guest kept insisting that I put it in front of the neighborhood, and he would come down to get it later.
后来才知道他们家正在隔离，所以他不能和我见面，只好在微信道谢。
It turned out that their house was in isolation, so he couldn't see me and had to thank him by a microphone.
还有一次，我接到一位豆瓣网友的送菜求助。
Another time, I received a Douban netizen sent for help.
我骑着共享单车，从最东边的光谷骑到最西边的后湖，来回80公里，我一分跑腿费都没要。
I rode my bike from the easternmost Valley of Light to the westernmost back of the lake, 80 kilometers back and forth. I didn't ask for any running errands.
辛野骑单车送菜我在微博上记录这次送菜经历的时候，就有网友质疑我是不是为了钱去送这一单。
When I wrote about the experience on Weibo, some netizens questioned whether I was sending the order for money.
实际上为了钱我反而不会去送，因为我在疫情期间跑腿本来就不是为了钱。
I don't actually send it for money, because I didn't run errands for money during the outbreak.
我在平台上经常见到需要从武昌送到汉口，也就是跨江的单，有100多块钱跑腿费，但我从来没有接过。
I often saw on the platform the need to send from Wuchang to Hankou, that is, across the river. There were more than 100 yuan for running errands, but I never took over.
我只是觉得自己有能力去帮助这位网友，所以就去了。
I just thought I had the ability to help the netizen, so I went.
很多人在手机里高谈阔论，实际的事儿一件没做，反而质疑付诸行动的人。
A lot of people talk on their cell phones. Instead of doing the actual thing, they question the person who does it.
为什么我现在没有觉得很丧，是因为我每天都在给予别人温暖，别人也在回馈给我温暖。
Why I do not feel very sad now, because I am giving warmth to others every day, other people are giving back to me warm.
每天一跑起单来我就没空吃饭，喝水，也上不了厕所。
I can't have time to eat, drink water or go to the toilet when I run a single day.
我本身不是室外工作者，工作生活基本都在室内，所以没有很厚的衣服。
I'm not an outdoor worker myself, working and living indoors, so I don't have very thick clothes.
骑车经常冷得不行，有时候飘个小雨就更冷。
Cycling is often cold, sometimes drizzle even colder.
一开始对有的地方路不熟，还得一只手控制车，一只手拿着手机看客人的位置。
At first, I was unfamiliar with some places, and I had to control my car by hand and hold my mobile phone in one hand to see where my guests were.
有一天我车跑到没电了，大晚上推车十来公里走回去，路上一个人都没有。
One day when my car ran out of electricity, the trolley walked back about ten kilometers in the evening and there was no one on the road.
武汉的夜晚当时也会怀疑自己为什么要这样做，不过后来还是想通了，只要看到别人生活中困难又少了一个，我就会觉得特别开心。
Wuhan night will also doubt why they do so, but later found out, as long as someone else's life is difficult and one less, I will feel particularly happy.
生病的时候我也没有想过放弃。
I never thought of giving up when I was sick.
我觉得无论做什么事都像健身，如果你一定需要一个理由说服自己去做，那么你也就很容易说服自己放弃。
I think whatever you do is like going to the gym, and if you have to have a reason to convince yourself to do it, it's easy to convince yourself to give up.
所以当初去做这件事我没有纠结，最后我也不会因为什么理由轻易放弃。
So when I did it, I didn't get tangled up, and eventually I wouldn't give up for any reason.
对于前段时间有媒体报道一位体型健美的老人去世，我的看法是大家无需过于担忧。
I don't think you should worry too much about the recent media report of the death of a fit old man.
健身不等于健康，肌肉发达也不等于免疫系统强大。
Fitness is not the same as health. Muscle strength is not equal to a strong immune system.
健康和好的生活习惯，以及在疫情时期做好防护措施是息息相关的，跟你有没有一身肌肉毫无关系。
Health and good living habits, as well as protection during an epidemic, are closely related to whether you have a muscle or not.
从刚开始默默无闻送货，到后来在豆瓣、微博受到关注，我觉得自己心态最大的变化就是，发现这个社会太需要爱了。
From the beginning of unknown delivery, to later in peas, micro-blogging attention, I feel the biggest change in their mentality is to find that this society is too much love.
和这么多陌生人产生了联结、收到了五湖四海的关心之后，我感觉到原来大家都有能力去给予爱。
After connecting with so many strangers and receiving attention from all over the world, I felt that everyone had the ability to give love.
我的微信签名是“欢迎来到人间”，意思就是我觉得人间温暖且值得，同时也希望大家可以跟我一起温暖人间。
My signature is "Welcome to the world," which means I think it's warm and worth it, and I hope you can share the warmth with me.
我会继续跑腿到开城，陪着这座城市走向新生。
I will continue to run errands to Kaesong and accompany the city to a new life.
「相关文章」疫区日记 I我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”「征集活动」无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系分享你与疫情的故事「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信。
We want to do something for the city 120 ambulance. "We live in the same home, but we can not meet each other" "Call for information" Whether you are living in the same home, you can not meet each other.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员。
Wuhan running errands: from the fitness instructor to the courier.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Running Legs: From fitness instructor to express & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "“我要陪这个城市走向新生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "I want to accompany this city to new life.
”";。
";;
title: '疫区日记 I',。
A diary I & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情',。
We are from Wuhan and would like to do something with & apos; for this city.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
