校友会的战“疫”网：医疗物资补位者的进与退。
Alumni Association of the "epidemic" network: medical supplies replacement of the inbound and outbound.
汪徐秋林。
Wang Xuqiulin.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月28日凌晨1时45分，复星从德国采购第一批5万件防护服运抵上海。
At 1.45 a.m. on January 28, the first batch of 50,000 protective clothing purchased by Fuxing from Germany arrived in Shanghai.
作为多个学校的校友企业，复星集团的采购团队“倾巢而出”。
As a number of schools of alumni enterprises, Fuxing Group's procurement team "out of the nest."
（受访者供图/图）全文共4518字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text of 4 518 words will take about 10 minutes to read.
这场战“疫”中，遍及世界各地的留学生、企业家、游客及海外华人华侨，为搜寻运送物资，自发编织起了一张庞大的采购、运送、收储、配送网络。
The "epidemic," spread throughout the world of foreign students, entrepreneurs, tourists and overseas Chinese, to search for and transport goods, a huge network of procurement, transport, storage and distribution.
而分散各地的校友会，成为这张网络中的关键节点。
The scattered alumni associations are the key nodes in this network.
像校友会这种组织对机构的点对点自愿服务，是捐赠运送医疗物资的“另一种选择”。
Organization-to-organization peer-to-peer volunteering, such as alumni associations, is an "alternative" to donating medical supplies.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汪徐秋林责任编辑 | 张玥晗 吕宗恕“武汉还未封城之前，我们就开始号召各地校友向华中科技大学附属的同济、协和医院捐赠第一批医疗物资。
Writing at Southern Weekend without authorization, Wang Xuqiulin, a reporter at Southern Weekend, was called upon to donate the first batch of medical supplies to Tongji and Concorde Hospital, affiliated with the Central University of Science and Technology, before Wuhan was closed.
”华中科技大学校友会武汉分会秘书长方华告诉南方周末记者。
"Huazhong University Alumni Association Wuhan Branch Secretary-General Fang Hua told Southern Weekend reporter.
新冠病毒肺炎暴发后，医疗防护物资储备和供给成为湖北各大医院面临的最大短板，社会捐赠由此成为医院获得“救命”物资的新渠道之一。
After the outbreak of New Crown Virus Pneumonia, the storage and supply of medical protective materials became the biggest shortage faced by the major hospitals in Hubei.
南方周末记者采访发现，这场战“疫”中，遍及世界各地的留学生、企业家、游客及海外华人华侨，为搜寻运送物资，自发编织起了一张庞大的采购、运送、收储、配送网络。
Southern Weekend reporters found that the "epidemic" throughout the world of foreign students, entrepreneurs, tourists and overseas Chinese, in order to search for goods, weaving a huge network of procurement, transportation, storage and distribution.
而分散各地的校友会，成为这张网络中的关键节点。
The scattered alumni associations are the key nodes in this network.
“为了尽快采购、分发物资，校友们都在尽力调动自己的社会资源。
"Alumni are trying to mobilize their social resources in order to procure and distribute supplies as quickly as possible.
”中欧国际工商学院校友会深圳分会秘书许依楠告诉南方周末记者。
Xu Yinan, secretary of the Shenzhen branch of CEIBS, told Southern Weekend reporter.
不少非校友的社会人士也因为校友会采购的物资符合医用标准、运送渠道较为通畅、捐赠信息资金流向公开透明，选择校友会作为此次疫情的捐助渠道。
Many non-alumni members of the community have also chosen the Alumni Association as a channel for donations to the epidemic, as the materials purchased by the Association meet medical standards, the delivery channels are more open and the flow of donated information funds is open and transparent.
据武汉大学深圳校友会秘书长李红亮计算，以个人名义给深圳校友会捐款的非校友，“至少有30%”。
According to Li Hongliang, secretary-general of Wuhan University's Shenzhen Alumni Association, "at least 30 percent" of the non-alumni donated to the Shenzhen Alumni Association in their personal capacity.
1为医院买口罩“N95口罩一天一个价”，“20块一个根本不算贵”，“期间还遇到国内其他学校和企业的采购团队”，“直到下订单前都不确定到底能买到多少”，“就算买到也不一定能够成功运回国”，“即便运回国，也需要跟踪发放的全部流程”。
I bought a mask for the hospital "N95 mask a day", "20 yuan a day is not expensive at all", "I also met other schools and enterprises in China procurement team", "until the purchase order can not be sure how much can be bought," "even if it can not be successfully bought," "even back home, the need to track the release of the entire process.
……作为校友分会秘书，许依楠向南方周末记者细数疫情暴发近二十天来她在对接全球中欧校友寻找购买防护物资时遇到的种种波折。
As Secretary of the Alumni Affairs Section, Xu Yinan told Southern Weekend that she had been experiencing difficulties in finding protective materials for Central European alumni during the past 20 days of the outbreak.
她的手机里有各地校友的联系方式，北京时间每天凌晨，就是许依楠和全球校友开会碰头的时间。
Her cell phone has contact details of alumni from all over the world. Every morning in Beijing time, it is the time for Xu Yinan to meet with alumni all over the world.
自2020年1月23日湖北各城市陆续实施特别防疫措施以来，不断有医院因为医疗防护物资紧缺，向社会公开寻求物资支援。
Since the implementation of special epidemic prevention measures in Hubei cities on 23 January 2020, hospitals have been openly seeking material support from the community because of the shortage of medical and protective materials.
南方周末记者连线询问十余家湖北当地医院得知，N95口罩、医用外科口罩、防护服、酒精、护目镜等一次性医疗防护耗材，“非常紧缺”。
Southern Weekend reporter wire a dozen local hospitals in Hubei learned that N95 mask, medical surgical mask, protective clothing, alcohol, goggles and other disposable medical protection supplies, "very scarce."
医疗用品标准高、需求量大，货源少，以3MN95口罩为例，只有1860、1870、9132三个型号能够投入医用，即便海外采购遇到了KN95、KF94、FFP3等型号，也不一定能与医用完全划上等号。
For example, only 1860, 1870 and 9132 models can be used for medical purposes, even if overseas purchases encounter models such as KN95, KF94, FFP3, etc., and may not be fully matched with medical supplies.
“所以1860、1870、9132这三个型号，我们有多少买多少。
So how much do we buy in three models, 1860, 1870 and 9132
”许依楠说。
'said Xu Yinan.
除此之外，能用于医疗防护的防护服、护目镜、一次性防护手套、药品，也被各地校友列入了采购清单。
In addition, protective clothing, goggles, disposable protective gloves, medicines that can be used for medical protection are also included in the purchase list of alumni.
在这场全球民间采购战“疫”中，许依楠扮演的角色是信息中转站和需求执行方。
In this global civil procurement war "epidemic," Xu Yinan plays the role of information hub and demand executor.
多位受访对象表示，除却拥有专业海外医疗采购团队和海外分公司的大型集团，国内企业和个人捐助者若想在全球找到医疗防护物资，就需要对接海外的关系和资源；而海外机构、企业和个人捐助者想将医疗物资尽快送达医院，也需要通过国内企业的社会关系，尽快走完报关、申报、检验、配送等一整套流程。
A number of respondents said that, in addition to large groups with specialized overseas medical procurement teams and branches abroad, domestic companies and individual donors needed to connect overseas ties and resources if they were to find medical supplies globally, while overseas agencies, enterprises and individual donors wanted to deliver medical supplies to hospitals as quickly as possible and needed to go through the whole process of customs declaration, declaration, inspection and distribution as soon as possible.
这远非一家机构、公司或个人精力所及。
This is far beyond the reach of an organization, company or individual.
校友会这样将社会不同角色聚在一起的组织，却恰好能发挥它的优势。
Alumni associations, which bring together different actors in society in this way, can take advantage of their strengths.
武汉大学深圳校友会最初给中南医院的捐助物资的想法，就来自深圳两位卫生部门校友的建议。
Wuhan University Shenzhen Alumni Association for the initial donation of materials to the South China hospital, from Shenzhen two alumni suggestions.
“当时口罩还很好找。
"The mask was easy to find.
”李红亮向南方周末记者回忆。
Li Hongliang told Southern Weekend reporter.
这份向校友募捐的公告，经校友和社会转发，截至2月10日24时，已收到逾27万笔、共计2084万元人民币的捐款。
As at 2400 hours on February 10, more than 270,000 donations totalling RMB20.84 million had been received in response to the appeal from alumni and the public.
“个人单笔大到100万元，小到1元，”李红亮说，“捐助的采购渠道不光来自深圳，也来自全国甚至海外。
"Individual purchases range from one million yuan to one yuan," Li said. "The source of donations is not only from Shenzhen, but also from all over the country and even overseas.
比如一位来自美国洛杉矶的校友，就给我们采购了一批防护口罩。
An alumnus from Los Angeles, USA, for example, bought us some face masks.
”“华科全球74个校友会分会，有差不多60个分会都给湖北和武汉捐助了医疗物资，包括来自北美、欧洲、澳洲、东南亚和南亚各个国家的分支机构。
"Huako has 74 alumni associations around the world and nearly 60 have donated medical supplies to Hubei and Wuhan, including branches in North America, Europe, Australia, Southeast Asia and South Asia.
”华中科技大学校友会武汉分会秘书长方华说。
"said Fang Hua, secretary-general of Wuhan branch of the CUHK Alumni Association.
2影响力超乎想象疫情暴发前，方华在华中科技大学校友会武汉分会当了十年秘书长。
Before the outbreak, Fang was secretary-general of Wuhan branch of the Alumni Association of Central China University of Science and Technology.
“新来的校友找到我想进校友群，我就问他想进行业、专业、班级的哪个群。
"When the new alumni found me wanting to join the alumni group, I asked him which group he wanted to work in, major in, and class with.
”作为华科校友会系统中规模最大的分会，武汉分会的校友分散在武汉各行各业。
As the largest branch of the alumni association system, Wuhan alumni are scattered across Wuhan.
平时，武汉分会活动以参观学习、举办行业分享会和休闲活动为主，校友会有自己的会长、理事成员、秘书长和公共账户，“大家都是兼职”。
Usually, Wuhan branch activities to study tours, industry sharing and leisure activities, the alumni association has its own president, board members, secretary-general and public accounts, "all part-time."
武汉大学深圳校友会共有超过5万的在册人员，平时大家多按行业，划分为医学、金融、土木等群体。
Wuhan University Shenzhen Alumni Association has more than 50,000 registered personnel, usually according to the industry, divided into medical, financial, civil and other groups.
“校友自发组织活动，校友会就是服务，平时与学校偶尔有一些联系。
"Alumni self-organized activities, alumni associations is the service, usually with the school occasionally have some contact.
”李红亮认为学校对校友组织“已经很重视”。
Mr Li believes the school has "taken its alumni groups seriously."
许依楠所在的中欧国际工商学院校友会则有更多来自各个行业的企业家。
Mr Xu's alumni association at CEIBS has more entrepreneurs from all walks of life.
据介绍，学院鼓励企业家学员积极践行公益，但应对新冠病毒肺炎的支援并非学校强制。
Entrepreneurs are encouraged to take a pro-bono approach, but school support is not compulsory, according to the institute.
“校友们有了捐赠的意图，我才把他们逐个对接起来。
"It was only with the intention of the alumni giving that I docked them one by one.
”许依楠回忆。
"recalls Xu Yinan.
“学校只是撮合指导，具体的人员召集、商品采购、物流配送，都是校友们自发成立的。
"Schools are simply matchmaking guides, specific personnel convocation, commodity procurement, logistics and distribution, are set up spontaneously by alumni.
”1月22日，来自武汉、北京、深圳的校友们陆续提议给学校下属的同济、协和两家知名医院捐赠医疗防护物资，方华就把来自上述两家医院的专家和海外采购物资的校友们拉了个微信群，甄别海外医疗物资的型号。
On January 22, alumni from Wuhan, Beijing and Shenzhen proposed donating medical protection materials to Tongji, Concorde and two renowned hospitals under the school, and Fang drew a line of faith from experts at the two hospitals and alumni buying supplies from overseas to identify models of medical supplies from overseas.
后来，这批海外医疗防护物资的采购标准逐渐成为各医院认可的医疗物资受助标准。
Later, the overseas purchase standard of medical defense materials gradually became recognized by the hospitals to receive medical materials standards.
“没想到疫情会发展成这样，也没有想到校友会能在社会产生这么大影响力。
"I didn't expect this to happen, nor did I expect the alumni association to have such a big impact on society.
”方华说。
'said Fang.
南京大学发展委员会副研究员王俊在2019年发表的《我国大学—校友关系的发展转型探析》一文中分析，20世纪90年代以来，越来越多大学将校友群体视为学校发展的重要外部资源，二者关系运转围绕学校中心工作展开，“更加紧密，但尚未建立规范、有序、可持续的契约性关系”。
According to Wang Jun, vice-researcher of the Nanjing University Development Committee in 2019, an increasing number of universities have regarded alumni groups as an important external resource for school development. The relationship between the two groups has evolved around the central work of schools, "closer but not yet structured and sustainable contractual relationships."
实际上，在校友会工作人员的组织联络下，校友的自发行动一定程度上也缓解了湖北当地医院物资短缺的难题。
In fact, with the alumni association of staff contact, the alumni initiative also to some extent alleviated the Hubei local hospital material shortage problem.
湖北各市相继封城后，中欧深圳、湖北两个校友分会大年初一通过医疗供应商，在仙桃当地找到一间存储了20万只一次性医用口罩、150箱隔离服和手术衣的仓库。
After Hubei cities were sealed off, two alumni branches of Central Europe, Shenzhen and Hubei, found a warehouse with 200,000 disposable medical masks, 150 boxes of quarantined clothes and surgical clothing in Xiantao area on the first day of New Year.
他通过校友群找到需要物资的医院后，就带着供应商和医院联系人前往仓库，在确认包括口罩、隔离服和手术衣等防护物资可用，“直接（一次性）付钱，直接捐赠。
After locating hospitals in need through his alumni group, he took suppliers and hospital contacts to the warehouse to confirm that protective materials, including masks, isolation clothing and surgical clothing, were available, "directly (one-off) payments, direct donations."
”另一位深圳分会校友直接找到武汉蔡甸区一家还在生产84消毒液的工厂，买下工厂库存和出厂量，通过许依楠找到武汉和周边城市医院、垃圾场等需求单位，当天就将消毒液分发到他们手中。
Another alumnus of the Shenzhen branch went directly to a factory in Cai Den, Wuhan, which is still producing disinfectant 84, bought the factory's stock and factory output and found demand units such as Wuhan and surrounding urban hospitals and dumps through Xu Yinan, and distributed the disinfectant to them the same day.
还有一次有校友为了让医院尽快派车来领，甚至把医院的通行证一并解决了。
Another time some alumni to let the hospital as soon as possible to get a car, even the hospital pass together.
华科武汉校友会大部分的校友志愿者把精力放在外来物资运抵武汉、通向湖北全省的分配运送上。
Most alumni volunteers of the Wuhan Alumni Association of China focus on the arrival of foreign materials to Wuhan, Hubei Province on the distribution of transportation.
每天从海外、省外筹集的医疗防护物资运抵武汉，校友们就将物资运到机场旁一校友捐赠的临时存储仓库，那里有来自全省各医院的工作人员在等待领取物资。
Every day, medical supplies collected from overseas and provinces arrive in Wuhan. Alumni transport supplies to a temporary storage depot donated by an alumnus at the airport, where staff from hospitals across the province are waiting to receive supplies.
“如果医院来不了人，我们就派人送过去。
"If the hospital doesn't come, we'll send someone to see it off.
”2月1日，华中科技大学武汉校友分会也成为协同管理武汉红十字会仓库的数家单位之一。
On February 1, Wuhan Alumni Branch of Huazhong University of Science and Technology became one of several units that co-managed the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse.
十余名志愿者报名并前往红会仓库，“当时我们能做的就是搬货和整理，有人打趣‘都是些硕士博士在送货’。
More than a dozen volunteers signed up for the Red Cross Warehouse. "All we could do was move and reorganize, and people joked, 'It was all Masters Docs delivering'.
”方华回忆。
"Fang recalled.
而校友自己的配送，方华计算，从批文通关、飞机落地到拆包再到送到医生手上，最多只花了21个小时。
Alumni 's own distribution, Fang reckons, took up to 21 hours from clearance, landing, unpacking and delivery to a doctor.
3“要公开的，一律公开”武汉大学、华中科技大学校友会的捐赠行为能被非校友人群关注，在于2020年1月23日以来，他们将所有捐赠信息及物资去处一一向社会公开。
The donation behavior of Wuhan University and the Alumni Association of Huazhong University of Science and Technology can be noticed by the non-alumni population. Since January 23, 2020, they have made all donations publicly available.
武汉大学深圳校友会公开了二十天来所有物资接收医院、物资名称、数量、单价、物流动态与其他补充信息的条目。
The Shenzhen Alumni Association of Wuhan University has published entries for all incoming hospitals, names of materials, quantities, unit prices, logistics dynamics and other supplementary information for 20 days.
此外，每一笔捐款的交易单号、交易场景和交易状态在网络上也都有据可查。
In addition, the transaction order number, transaction scenario and transaction status of each contribution are also available online.
华中科技大学武汉校友会则在微信公众号里公开了所有的转账明细和发放物资条目。
Wuhan Alumni Association of Huazhong University of Science and Technology published all the transfer details and items in the Weixin public.
李红亮介绍，信息公开的工作只需由一人专职完成。
Li Hongliang, the information disclosure work only needs to be done by a full-time.
前期十几个采购小组把采购信息、合同信息、物流信息汇总到了财务小组，财务小组再去跟踪付款流程，最后再由一人汇总公布所有财务信息、合同信息、物流信息等。
A dozen or so procurement teams brought together purchasing information, contract information and logistics information into the finance team, which then tracked the payment process, and finally one person compiled and published all the financial information, contract information, logistics information, etc.
“这是每个机构的管理者都必须要具备的财务安全制度意识。
"This is an institutional awareness of financial security that every agency manager must have.
”无论李红亮或方华，都承认自己没有接受过相关基金会管理的培训。
Both Mr Li and Mr Fang admit they have no training in fund management.
“我们就是按照企业的方式去管理，信息要公开的一律公开，要执行的一律尽快执行，要筹建什么部门小组就尽快筹建，要宣传就宣传。
"We are the way to manage enterprises, information to be open to the public, to be implemented as soon as possible, to set up as soon as possible to set up a departmental team, publicity and publicity.
”方华说道。
"said Fang.
她发现，越来越多并非校友群体，例如珠海湖北商会，也开始通过华科武汉校友会进行捐赠。
She found that a growing number of non-alumni groups, such as the Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Zhuhai, are also donating through the Wuhan Alumni Association.
“除了校友的号召力，我们集体购买、高效分配、信息公开的行为也赢得了他们的信任。
"In addition to our alumni 's appeal, our collective buying, efficient distribution, and disclosure practices have earned them their trust.
”实际上，涌向校友会的资金如何使用，成为校友会在过去二十天里的现实挑战。
In fact, how the money poured into the alumni associations has become a real challenge for the alumni association over the past 20 days.
方华介绍，在武汉当地物资运送压力较大的情况下，物资采购更多由北京、上海、深圳的校友分会负责。
Fang said that in Wuhan, the local material delivery pressure, more material procurement by Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen alumni branch.
“但我们也会统计医院求助信息，有捐助资金，就尽量均衡给之前没有覆盖到的医院。
"But we also count hospitals for help and try to balance out hospitals that were not previously covered with donor funding.
”方华说道。
"said Fang.
李红亮手里则有一份湖北当地140多家医院的联络表，在思考如何给各求助医院配送医疗物资时，校友会工作人员除了比对需求，还需考虑其他因素：“孝感、黄冈疫情严重，物资要有所倾斜；而对同济、协和这种大医院，就会捐赠给他们更多的医疗物资。
Li Hongliang has a contact list of more than 140 hospitals in Hubei province. Alumni associations need to consider other factors in addition to their needs: "Feeling filial piety, the severity of the Huanggang epidemic and the skewed supply of supplies.
”在物资最紧缺的几天里，资金怎么花才不浪费，更让工作人员为难。
In the days when supplies are scarce, staff struggle to figure out how to spend their money without wasting it.
捐助人会关心捐赠的资金用得好不好。
Donors will be concerned about how well the donated funds are spent.
“38元一个的N95医疗口罩、390元一件的医疗防护服都遇到过。
"A $38 N95 medical mask and a $390 medical mask were all encountered.
”李红亮回忆起没有完成的采购时说，两千多万的公众募集资金，不能不花，也不能乱花，“其实是一种压力”，为此，校友会谢绝了一笔500万元的捐赠。
Remembering unfinished purchases, Li said more than 20 million people could not raise money without spending or misspending. "It was a kind of pressure," for which the alumni association declined a donation of five million yuan.
为了回应捐助人的质疑，武大深圳校友会的工作人员甚至要将购买医疗设备的合同价格、过去同一型号的招标价格、中标价格一一列举对比。
In response to questions from donors, the staff of the Shenzhen Alumni Association of Wuhan University even had to compare the contract price for the purchase of medical equipment, the bid price of the same model in the past and the bid winning price one by one.
“目前已公布执行的资金有1100多万，包括还未付账的合同则执行了1500多万。
"More than 11 million funds have been announced for implementation, and more than 15 million contracts have been executed, including those that remain unpaid.
”2月11日夜里，李红亮计算道。
"On the night of February 11, Li Hongliang counted.
4校友会只是查漏补缺将近20天的工作，李红亮坦言“很疲惫”。
Alumni Association just missed nearly 20 days of work, Li Hongliang confessed "very tired."
方华一开始也以为号召校友捐赠医疗防护物资的活动“最多三天就可以结束”。
Fang also initially thought the campaign calling on alumni to donate medical supplies "could end in three days at most."
许依楠表示，她偶尔也想这样的志愿活动是不是该结束了，可一觉醒来，她又开始对接分散在全球各个时区、还在不断寻找医疗物资并想办法捐助给湖北的校友。
Xu said she occasionally wondered if the volunteer effort was over, but when she woke up, she began docking across time zones around the globe, looking for medical supplies and trying to donate them to Hubei alumni.
来自民间的捐赠数字，同步在各大校友会间快速增长。
The number of donations from non-governmental organizations is growing rapidly among the major alumni associations.
据南方周末记者不完全统计，疫情暴发以来，长江商学院各校友组织和班级向疫区累计捐赠资金和物资超过1290万元，长江校友企业捐赠资金和物资则超过28亿元；北京大学校友会则自2020年2月8日起发起“百万口罩行动”，号召全球北大校友，直接向湖北省内17个地市州及其所辖县区医院捐赠100万个医用口罩；中欧国际工商学院校友总会公益联盟、爱心联盟在2月10日号召分布在海内外130个校友分会和俱乐部的两万四千余名校友，展开新一轮公开筹款活动。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, alumni organizations and classes at the Changjiang School of Business have donated over 12.9 million yuan, and the Alumni Association of Yangtze River Alumni Association has donated more than 2.8 billion yuan in medical masks since February 8, 2020.
与此同时，不断有一线防疫医院也开始第二次向社会公开寻求医疗物资渠道。
At the same time, hospitals for first-line prophylaxis have begun to seek public access to medical supplies for the second time.
“这两天（2月9日）还会有一大批物资要运送到武汉。
"There will be a large shipment of goods to Wuhan in the next two days, February 9.
我需要将它们分发到各个医院。
I need to distribute them to hospitals.
”方华细数自己手机中置顶的微信对接群。
Mr Fang counted the microphone docking swarm that he had placed on his mobile phone.
校友会、志愿者协会等组织对医疗机构的点对点运送，成为这次防疫过程中医疗物资捐助运送的“另一种选择”。
The peer-to-peer delivery of medical facilities by alumni associations and voluntary associations has become an "alternative" to the delivery of medical supplies during the epidemic prevention process.
但这并非校友会的初衷，方华说：“我们本来是补位的那群人。
But that was not the intention of the alumni association, Fang said. "We were the people who were supposed to fill the gap.
”中国社科院企业社会责任研究中心主任钟宏武也认为，尽管此次战“疫”不少企业和企业家们都有突出表现，但他们更应该以及早贡献自己的专业能力，如建筑公司抓紧建造医院，物流公司铺设绿色通道，医药公司加紧研制药品，医疗设备公司抓紧生产医疗产品。
Zhong Hongwu, director of the Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, agrees that, while many companies and entrepreneurs have done well in the epidemic, they should have contributed their expertise early, such as building hospitals quickly, logistics companies laying green passages, pharmaceutical companies stepping up drug development and medical equipment companies stepping up production of medical products.
“不涨价、保证量，就是最大的社会责任。
"Do not increase the price, guarantee the amount, is the greatest social responsibility.
我倒觉得，捐赠的重要性反倒是第二位的。
I think the importance of giving is second to none.
”方华表示，校友会下一步也希望从捐赠物资配送的压力中抽离，专注做一些校友们擅长做的事。
Mr Fang says the next step is for the alumni association to pull away from the pressure of donating supplies and focus on what alumni are good at.
“比如牵头撰写调研报告，呼吁公众和政府关注医护人员的住宿问题。
"Take the lead in writing a study calling on the public and the government to pay attention to the accommodation of healthcare personnel.
”她希望有更多各行各业的校友站出来，联手解决医护人员隔离和住宿的实际困难。
She wants more alumni from all walks of life to come forward and work together to address the practical difficulties of segregation and accommodation.
而许依楠建议校友分会将关注点转向了民用口罩。
Mr Xu suggests that the alumni section turn its attention to civilian masks.
她发现，2月10日各地企业陆续复工后，很多企业的这一防线出现重大缺口。
She found that after the resumption of local businesses on February 10, many enterprises in this line of defense appeared a major gap.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
校友会的战“疫”网：医疗物资补位者的进与退。
Alumni Association of the "epidemic" network: medical supplies replacement of the inbound and outbound.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "校友会的战“疫”网：医疗物资补位者的进与退";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
