我在郑州：重温萝卜、白菜、土豆三件宝。
I am in Zhengzhou: Re-warm radish, cabbage, potato three treasures.
赵志疆。
Zhao Zhijiang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月30日，市民在郑州市一家大型超市内采购蔬菜。
January 30, the public in Zhengzhou a large supermarket shopping vegetables.
（新华社记者 冯大鹏/图）全文共2577字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2,577 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
支撑我家一路走来的，有三样法宝：萝卜、白菜、土豆。
To support my family along the way, there are three magic weapons: turnip, cabbage, potato.
因为耐存储，所以当初就多买了一些堆在厨房外面的储物间。
Because of the resistance to storage, I bought some extra stacks outside the kitchen.
于是，我们家的菜谱上时常都是几样菜：土豆炖牛肉、萝卜炖羊肉，清炒土豆丝、清炒萝卜丝，间或点缀以清炒白菜。
So, our family menu is often a few dishes: potato beef stew, radish stewed mutton, stir-fried potato filament, stir-fried Rose, or occasional dotted with sauteed cabbage.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文|赵志疆责任编辑 |陈斌我家在郑州二环边，隔窗就能看到郑州市动物园内郁郁葱葱的树木。
This article started at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 45; Zhao Zhijiang's responsibility editor and my family can see the lush trees at Zhengzhou Zoo from the window next to the Zhengzhou Second Ring.
郑州市动物园建成于1985年，那时候，二环外还是一片农田。
Zhengzhou Zoo was built in 1985, when outside the Second Ring Road was a farmland.
随着郑州的高速发展，动物园所处的位置已是寸土寸金的商圈，淹没在车水马龙之中的动物们，也一同过上了城市生活。
With the high-speed development of Zhengzhou, the Zoo is already located in the business circle, submerged in the traffic, the animals also led a city life together.
每到夜深人静，狮吼虎啸隐隐传来，我总忍不住屏息静听，陶陶然有一种隐逸山林的错觉。
Every night, the lion roar came faintly, I could not help but hold my breath, Tao Ran has a kind of delusion of secluded mountain forest.
疫情开始肆虐的时候，我在吃饭时对儿子说，每年春节都是动物园最热闹的时候，今年，动物们终于可以清静几天了。
As the epidemic raged, I told my son at dinner that the annual Spring Festival was the busiest time at the zoo. This year, the animals were finally able to have a few quiet days.
没想到，城市里所有人很快都过上了笼中困兽的日子。
I didn't expect that all the people in the city would soon be trapped in cages.
如果说有什么区别，那就是没有人定时投喂，我们仍需自己觅食。
If there's any difference, it's that no one's been timed to feed us, and we still have to feed ourselves.
当很多人还在因奔驰车开进故宫义愤填膺的时候，我就因武汉节节攀升的确诊病例感到惴惴不安。
While many people were outraged by the Mercedes-Benz driving into the Forbidden City, I was dismayed by the rising number of confirmed cases in Wuhan.
当我决定购买口罩以备不时之需的时候，我才发现，很多人早已积极行动起来。
When I decided to buy masks for a rainy day, I discovered that many people were already active.
2020年1月20日，我在京东3M直营店看到，一组3只N95口罩的价格是29.5元，随手添加进购物车，然后继续搜索其他店铺的同类商品。
On January 20, 2020, I saw a set of 3 N95 masks priced at 29.5 yuan at the 3M direct store in Jingdong.
一无所获，返回购物车准备结算，我吃惊地发现购物链接已经失效。
Not finding anything, I returned to the shopping cart to settle down and was surprised to find that the shopping link had lapsed.
此后，那个页面就无可救药地灰了下去，再也没有点亮。
After that, the page was hopelessly grey and never lit up again.
意识到事情的紧迫性后，我扩大了搜索范围，是否3M已经并不重要，N95更是不敢奢望，最终顺利抢到了几只防雾霾口罩。
Realizing the urgency of the matter, I expanded the search, whether 3M is no longer important, N95 is not too ambitious, and finally managed to snatch a few fog-proof smog masks.
虽然货不对板，终究聊胜于无，我暗暗宽慰自己。
Although the goods are wrong, after all better than nothing, I secretly comforted myself.
尽管如此，没有多抢购几只口罩，依然成了我此后很长时间的心病。
Despite this, did not buy more than a few masks, still became my heart disease for a long time after.
直到从家里翻出两包一次性口罩后，口罩的顾虑才稍稍被放下。
The mask's scruples were not put down until two disposable masks were pulled out of the house.
在这个漫长的假期里，整个城市像冰封一样肃穆而沉静，但每个人都知道，清冷的冰面之下，大家的情绪都在奔腾翻滚，须臾不曾停歇。
During this long holiday, the city was as solemn and quiet as ice, but everyone knew that under the cold ice everyone was in a state of restlessness.
解决了口罩这个头等大事，接下来的问题是买菜做饭。
The first priority is to get rid of the mask, and the next problem is to buy and cook.
相比之下，这个问题虽然重要，但并不紧急，小区附近就有两家大型超市，以及若干水果生鲜超市。
By contrast, the issue, while important, is not urgent, with two large supermarkets near the neighborhood and a number of fruit-growing supermarkets.
后来的经历告诉我，虽然自认为行事谨慎，但我终究还是百密一疏，因为接下来不得不面对灵魂拷问——蔬菜供应一直很充足，但你敢出门去买吗？同处九省通衢之地，郑州与武汉有颇多相似之处，除了彼此之间的直接联系之外，两地还有一个密切的中介——信阳人。
Later experience has taught me that, although I consider myself prudent, I am at a loss after all because I have to face soul torture - vegetables have always been plentiful, but do you dare to go out and buy themZhengzhou has much in common with Wuhan, the thoroughfare of nine provinces where, in addition to direct contact between them, there is a close intermediary, the Xinyang.
信阳地处河南最南端，与武汉的距离比郑州还要更近一些。
Xinyang is located at the southernmost tip of Henan and is closer to Wuhan than Zhengzhou.
因此，信阳人不仅喜欢北上郑州，更喜欢南下武汉。
Therefore, Xinyang people not only like to go north Zhengzhou, more like the south of Wuhan.
看到郑州遍地开花的信阳菜馆，就知道信阳人在郑州的影响力；看到信阳人早餐喜欢热干面而不是胡辣汤，就知道武汉在信阳的地位。
See Zhengzhou blooming Xinyang restaurant, you know the influence of Xinyang people in Zhengzhou; see Xinyang people like hot-and-dry noodles for breakfast rather than spicy soup, you will know the status of Wuhan in Xinyang.
武汉“封城”之后，河南因一系列“硬核”操作备受瞩目，固然是主政者未雨绸缪的成果，也未尝不是特殊地缘联系中的必然选择。
Wuhan "closed city", Henan because of a series of "hard core" operation is the result of forethought, is not not a special geographical contacts in the inevitable choice.
武汉“封城”后，河南乃至郑州压力陡升，从上到下都在升级防控措施。
Wuhan "closure", Henan and even Zhengzhou pressure rose steeply, from top to bottom are upgrading prevention and control measures.
小区门口，全副武装的保安扮演起了安检员的职责；同事同学群中，不时有人哀叹“我们小区拉走了一个”……说句实话，我除了感受朋友圈的焦虑之外，现实生活并没有受到太多实际影响。
In the doorway of the neighborhood, heavily armed security guards took on the role of security examiner; from time to time, fellow students moaned, "Our neighborhood pulled one away..." To be honest, I didn't get much practical impact in real life other than the anxiety of my friends.
因为工作性质的原因，在家隔离于我而言，其实是一种常态。
Isolation at home is the norm for me because of the nature of my work.
直到正月十五去超市买元宵时，我才蓦然发觉，自己已经有20天未曾离开小区，除了丢垃圾之外，甚至压根没有出过家门。
Until January 15 to the supermarket to buy Lantern Festival, I suddenly realized that they have not left the community for 20 days, in addition to throwing garbage, not even out of the house.
就连那几只口罩，也是从网上抢来的。
Even the masks were snatched from the Internet.
支撑我家一路走来的，有三样法宝：萝卜、白菜、土豆。
To support my family along the way, there are three magic weapons: turnip, cabbage, potato.
其实，年前采购的时候，各色蔬菜都备有一些，不过早已很快消耗殆尽，唯独这“老三样”，因为耐存储，所以当初就多买了一些堆在厨房外面的储物间。
In fact, when I bought some vegetables a few years ago, I quickly ran out of them. Only the old three bought more stacks outside the kitchen because of their durability.
于是，我们家的菜谱上时常都是几样菜：土豆炖牛肉、萝卜炖羊肉，清炒土豆丝、清炒萝卜丝，间或点缀以清炒白菜。
So, our family menu is often a few dishes: potato beef stew, radish stewed mutton, stir-fried potato filament, stir-fried Rose, or occasional dotted with sauteed cabbage.
之所以能撑这么久，还要归功于两样秘密武器：一箱老干妈，还有一大包麻辣花生。
It took two secret weapons to hold out for so long: a crate of dried-up mothers and a big bag of spicy peanuts.
我们全家人都喜食米饭，这两样最是下饭。
Our whole family likes rice, which is the last meal.
虽然品种不多，但家人吃饭都不挑剔，倒也每餐都津津有味、其乐融融。
Although the variety is not many, but the family are not fastidious, but also every meal with relish and joy.
甚至于我还在餐桌上屡有提及，许久未闻狮吼虎啸之声，不知道它们当下过得怎样，是否会因无人投喂而忍饥挨饿？承平日久，新的问题应运而生，“老三样”虽然耐储存，终究不是“不坏之身”——白菜会烂芯，土豆会发芽，萝卜也会糠。
Even I mention it repeatedly at the dinner table, hearing no lion roar for a long time, wondering how they are doing, whether they will starve because no one is feeding them at all.
因为家里是地暖，过高的温度大大加速了这个过程。
Because the house is warm, the excessive temperature greatly accelerates the process.
如之奈何？当此之时，不由得使人格外怀念儿时的“煤球房”。
How to do so? When this time, can not help but make people miss the childhood "coal room."
我的童年在老国企生活区度过，那时候，住宅楼是清一色“苏联式”风格，每栋楼下都有一排平房，每户一间，名曰“煤球房”。
My childhood was spent in the old state-owned enterprise quarters, when residential buildings were all Soviet-style, each with a row of bungalows downstairs, known as the coal-ball room.
说是“煤球房”，其实不只用来堆放煤球，冬季往往还会用来储存萝卜白菜。
Said to be "coal room," in fact, not only used to pile coal balls, winter is often used to store turnip cabbage.
在既没有蔬菜大棚也没有冰箱的年代，萝卜白菜是冬季里唯二的蔬菜。
Turnip cabbage is the only vegetable in winter when there are no vegetable sheds or refrigerators.
母亲当时经常挂在嘴边的一句话是“白菜萝卜保平安”。
Mother often hung at the mouth of a sentence is "cabbage turnip safe."
我不知道萝卜白菜是否能保平安，只知道，它们能保我们度过那一个个漫长的冬天。
I do not know whether turnip cabbage can keep safe, only know, they can keep us through that long winter.
谁能想到，多少年后我们全家的平安又再次落在萝卜白菜身上？生活的吊诡之处在于，我们仿佛坐在单向行驶的车上一路前行，但那些早已经过的车站仍仿佛不时划过我们的眼前。
Who would have thought how many years later the safety of our family would return to the turnip and cabbage? The paradox of life is that we travel in a one-way car, but the stations that have passed by seem to pass us by now and then.
这一次，我甚至还有机会趁着停车下去稍作停留，这样的心理体验简直妙不可言。
This time, I even got a chance to stop for a bit. It was a great psychological experience.
每念及此，那些寻常的萝卜白菜，在我眼中也不免变得生动而亲切起来。
With this in mind, those ordinary turnip cabbage, in my eyes can not help but become lively and cordial.
饶是如此，那些和蔼可亲的萝卜还是势不可挡地糠了。
Rao is so, those amiable radish is still irresistible chaff.
北方人所谓糠萝卜，是指萝卜的外表依然完好，但内部却已因失水而干瘪收缩。
The so-called bran radish in the north means that the surface of the radish is still intact, but the interior has been dried up and shrunk by water loss.
虽然吃了这么多年萝卜，但在此之前，糠萝卜的味道却是未曾一尝。
Although eaten for so many years, but before, the taste of radish is never tasted.
这一方面是因为，糠萝卜都会被随手丢弃；另一方面是因为，在“煤球房”的庇护下，萝卜的储存期会大大延长。
This is partly because carrots are discarded; on the other hand, the storage life of turnips is greatly extended under the shelter of the coal-ball house.
不幸的是，现下没有“煤球房”，家中暖气也义无反顾地扮演着糠萝卜的催化剂。
Unfortunately, there is no "coal room", the heating at home also plays the role of the catalyst radish.
奇货可居的背景中，饶是糠萝卜也万万不能丢弃。
Wonderful in the background, Rao is the bran radish must not be discarded.
于是，我仔细地削了皮，耐心地剔除干瘪收缩的部分，用余下的萝卜做了假期里最拿手的萝卜炖羊肉。
So I peeled carefully, patiently culling the shriveled and shrunken parts and using the rest of the turnip to make the stewed mutton and turnip I was most adept at during the holiday.
那一餐，我吃得挺开心，边吃还边跟母亲打趣说，糠萝卜的味道没有传说中那么不堪嘛。
That meal, I eat very happy, while eating and teasing his mother that the smell of radish is not as bad as legend.
父母相视一笑，没有多言。
The parents smiled at each other without saying much.
我看了看饕餮羊肉的儿子和女儿，脸上也露出了笑容。
I watched the sons and daughters of gluttonous mutton, and smiled.
在我关于童年的记忆里，这类边角料都是父母的碗中餐，羊肉才是我的菜。
In my childhood memories, this kind of corner material is parents' bowl of Chinese food, mutton is my dish.
当我开始对边角料感兴趣的时候，我才发现，人的味蕾是会随着年龄增长而改变的。
When I began to be interested in sideline material, I realized that people's taste buds change with age.
吃饭的时候，竟然听到久违了的狮吼虎啸，雄浑有力、中气十足。
Dinner, unexpectedly heard a long time no lion roar roar, powerful, full of vitality.
我笑着说，狮子老虎想必是吃饱了。
I laughed and said that the lion and tiger must be full.
是的，随着返城复工的人流，冰封的气氛正在慢慢解冻，整个城市也在逐渐恢复往昔的活力。
Yes, as people return to work, the ice is slowly thawing, and the city is slowly regaining its former vitality.
吃完了仅存的糠萝卜，我知道，自己必须走出家门去迎接新的生活了。
After eating the only radish left, I know that I have to go out to meet the new life.
《菜根谭》说“嚼得菜根香”，在我看来，能否从菜根中嚼得香味，关键要看在什么地方。
"Chew the root fragrances," says The Logan Tan. In my opinion, the key to chewing the flavor from the root depends on where it is.
以亲情为作料，即使是糠萝卜，也能品出一番不同寻常的滋味。
With the family as the seasoning, even the bran radish, also can taste some unusual taste.
天大地大，家里最大；千好万好，家中最好。
Earthquake, the largest family; thousands of good, the best home.
深宅在家的日子里，无论外面有多少风雨，内部每天都是其乐融融的家庭日。
Deep house at home in the days, no matter how much rain and rain outside, the interior of every day is its happy family day.
这也未尝不是这个沉重的假期，在我记忆中留下的一抹亮色。
This is not not not a heavy holiday, in my memory left a bright color.
#本文仅为作者个人观点，不代表本报立场#征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
# This article is a personal opinion and does not represent the position of the newspaper. "Southern Weekend" is now open to all readers in the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在郑州：重温萝卜、白菜、土豆三件宝。
I am in Zhengzhou: Re-warm radish, cabbage, potato three treasures.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "我在郑州：重温萝卜、白菜、土豆三件宝";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I was in Zhengzhou: Refrayed turnips, cabbage, and potatoes at & quot;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
