武汉不设防。
Wuhan is not fortified.
左异 刘楚。
Left Liu Chu.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
1 月 23 日 10 时，武汉封城。
At 1000 hours on January 23, Wuhan Sealed.
20 时，参照 SARS 时期小汤山模式，争分夺秒到 2 月 3 日需交付使用的火神山医院开建。
At 2000 hours, in accordance with the SARS-era Xiaotangshan model, Jiaozhao seconds to February 3 to be delivered to the use of the Mount Fujimori Hospital.
随后，各地重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应启动。
Subsequently, major public health emergencies around the level of response to start.
如中国疾控中心流行病学首席科学家曾光所言，针对新型冠状病毒的「决战时刻」已临。
As Zeng Guang, chief epidemiologist at the China CDC, said, the "decisive moment" for the new coronavirus is at hand.
至 1 月 26 日 24 时，30省（区市）累积报告确诊病例数 2744例；重症 461例，死亡 80例。
By 2400 hours on 26 January, a cumulative total of 2,744 confirmed cases had been reported in 30 provinces (districts and municipalities); 461 cases of severe illness and 80 cases of death had been reported.
与此同时，恐慌蔓延。
Meanwhile, panic spread.
定点医院资源匮乏，紧急求援信息不断；疑似患者确诊困难，治疗需求保障无力。
Point hospitals lack of resources, emergency calls for information; suspected patients are difficult to identify, treatment needs are weak.
情势严峻至此，曾光亦未能准确预判。
At this point, Mr Tsang could not accurately predict the situation.
两赴武汉的他坦言，伴随病毒的「与时俱进」，是专家不断的自我否定。
Two to Wuhan, he confessed, along with the virus "with the times", is the expert's continuous self-denial.
武汉市长周先旺，则在 22 日的新华社采访中则表示：疫情突然且迅猛，始料不及。
Wuhan City Chang Zhou Shenwang, the 22-day Xinhua news agency said: the outbreak of sudden and rapid, unexpected.
于是，1 月 19 日的百步亭社区「万家宴」后，湖北省春节团拜会更在 21 日「圆满举办」。
So, January 19, the 100-step community "million banquet", Hubei Province Spring Festival group visit on the 21st "successfully held."
候场时全身发冷，感冒鼻塞的演员，带病登台，「火力全开」。
Waiting time when the whole body chills, cold snuffle actors, with illness on the stage, "open fire."
而抗击重任，落肩在「战区」中心的医务人员。
And the fight against heavy responsibility, in the "war zone" center of medical personnel.
继 15 名医务人员被确诊感染后，武汉封城当日，各医院相继发布接受社会捐赠公告。
After 15 medical staff were diagnosed with infection, Wuhan sealing day, each hospital issued a public donation announcement.
防护物资稀缺，甚至难以为续的现实，方被社会知晓。
The reality that protective materials are scarce, or even difficult to sustain, is well known to society.
由此，质疑和追责声浪终汹涌难平。
As a result, the questioning and accountability of the wave finally turbulent.
国务院办公厅则发布公告，明确针对疫情防控不力等问题，将于线索征集后进行直接督查。
The Cabinet Office of the State Council issued a public notice, clearly targeting the disease control and other issues, will be collected after the collection of direct supervision.
CDC病毒病预防控制所分离的新型冠状病毒电镜照图源：国家病原微生物资源库一度遭忽视的传染源头17 年前的那场公共卫生危机，未能及时公开疫情成为事后被诟病最多的问题之一，也成为中国疾病防控系统以及政府信息公开等许多方面的重要转折点。
CDC Virus Disease Prevention and Control Separated New Coronavirus Electron Microscopy Source: The public health crisis of the first 17 years ago, which was neglected in the National Pathogenic Microbial Repository, was one of the most criticized problems in the future.
而多年后，越来越多的互联网官方渠道成为了重大事件的定海神针，「官宣」被普遍接纳，民众似乎不再容易被谣言所左右。
Over the years, more and more official Internet channels have become a major event, "official publicity" is generally accepted, people no longer seem to be easily influenced by rumors.
但关于「肺炎疫情」的第一次通报，仍然落后于网上流言。
But the first announcement of the pneumonia epidemic still lags behind online gossip.
2019 年 12 月末，SARS 「复燃」的消息通过群截图在微博、微信等社交平台散播开来，随后落款清晰的红头文件被主流媒体注意到。
In late December 2019, messages of a "rekindling" of SARS spread through social platforms such as microblogs and microphones, followed by clear red-headed documents that were picked up by mainstream media.
12 月 31 日，武汉市卫健委对外通报疫情，称之为「不明原因肺炎」。
December 31, Wuhan city health committee reported the outbreak, known as "unknown causes of pneumonia."
27 例病例大多指向位于紧邻武汉汉口火车站的华南海鲜城。
Most of the 27 cases pointed to Hai Xian City in south China which is located next to Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan.
但对于疑似 SARS 病毒的病原体并未明确说明。
However, the pathogen suspected to be SARS virus has not been specified.
这一消息也被同步提交给了世界卫生组织，港澳地区和国外媒体都纷纷报道这一消息。
The news was also submitted simultaneously to the World Health Organization and was widely reported in the Hong Kong, Macau and overseas media.
彼时，在上海工作的武汉人陈秘（化名）回忆，这条官方通报虽然证实了网上的部分传言，但丝毫没有给她的春节返乡心情造成影响。
Back then, Chen Secretary (not her real name), a Wuhan native working in Shanghai, recalled that the official announcement, while confirming some of the online rumors, had done nothing to affect her mood on returning home for the Spring Festival.
周围唯一的质疑来自陈秘的一中学同学，「病毒是SARS 的兄弟姐妹，目前发展情况不明了，如果（后续发展）不好的话，过年你就别回武汉了。
The only doubt came from a high school classmate of Chen's. "The virus is a brother and sister of SARS, and the development of the virus is unclear.
」陈秘的这位同学就职的公司属于武汉疾控系统的第三方机构，没多久同学群里大家戏称他是「预言家」。
Chen's classmate worked for a company that was part of a third-party Wuhan disease control system and was soon dubbed a "prophet" by his classmates.
陈秘当时的第一反应是，不回武汉，一个人在上海过年太无聊了吧。
Chen Secretary's first reaction at that time was, do not go back to Wuhan, a person in Shanghai New Year is too boring.
与此同时，常驻武汉的某国内主流媒体记者凌桦（化名）很快赶到了华南海鲜批发市场，令他惊讶的是，市场仍在营业，记者们还发现了野生动物贩卖的痕迹。
Meanwhile, Birch Ling (not her real name), a leading domestic media journalist based in Wuhan, arrived at the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, where, to his surprise, the market was still open and reporters found traces of wildlife trafficking.
12月31日，仍有部分商户营业的华南海鲜批发市场 图源：受访者供图SARS 当年的中间宿主正是野生市场的果子狸，很快，包括凌桦所在的多家媒体很快报道了此事。
On December 31, the source of the South China Wholesale Seafood Market, which is still open to some merchants: The intermediate host of the interviewee in the year was the civet in the wild market. Soon, many media outlets, including Ms Ling, reported the event.
1 月 1 日，华南海鲜城宣布休市，事后很多商户表示通知来得十分突然。
On January 1, Hai Xian City in South China announced a market break, after which many merchants said the notice came very suddenly.
另一条日后被人们翻出的消息是，华南海鲜城休市的同一天，8 名因散布不明原因肺炎信息的网络发布者被警方传唤。
Another later revelation was that on the same day the city was closed in Hai Xian City, South China, eight Internet publishers were summoned by police for spreading information about pneumonia.
与之相对应的是，在 2002 年 12 月，即便没有任何官方通告，关于「一种怪病」的民间传言，早已经在广东河源、中山、广州的民间传得沸沸扬扬，白醋、板蓝根被抢购至脱销，人们自发地产生了趋利避害的各种行为。
On the other hand, in December 2002, even in the absence of any official announcement, popular rumors of a "strange disease" were rife among the people of Heyuan, Zhongshan and Guangzhou in Guangdong Province. White vinegar and Banlangen were snapped up and sold out.
《谣言：世界最古老的传媒》一书中称：谣言之所以存在，不仅因为它拥有具备时效性的信息价值，是对单一信息源的有效补充，而且它揭露秘密，提出假设，迫使相关方开口说话。
Rumors exist not only because they have the value of time-sensitive information and are an effective complement to a single source of information, but also because they reveal secrets, make assumptions and force parties to speak out, according to The Age-Old Media.
在这一次的疫情初期，谣言随着「 8 名散布谣言者被依法查处」的动作予以警示，而适当的政府信息公开又让人们相信疫情是「可防可控」的。
In the early stages of the epidemic, rumors were alerted by the "eight rumour mongers found guilty according to the law," and proper disclosure of government information led people to believe that the outbreak was "preventable and controllable."
随着媒体的被迫撤离，舆情在 1 月 3 日之后趋于平淡。
With the forced withdrawal of the media, public opinion tended to subside after 3 January.
武汉卫健委的疫情通报成为唯一的信息源。
Wuhan health committee of the epidemic information has become the only source of information.
1 月 3 日和 5 日，武汉卫健委又陆续公布了疫情通报，除了数字从 27 例不断攀升至 44 例、59 例，「未发现明显人传人现象」、「未发现医务人员感染」等词汇也某种程度上消除了人们的恐慌，认为这场疫情并未蔓延。
On January 3 and 5, Wuhan Fitness Commission issued reports on the epidemic. Apart from the fact that the number of cases increased from 27 to 44 and 59, the words "no apparent human-to-human transmission" and "no infection among medical personnel" have also somewhat allayed fears that the epidemic has not spread.
偶尔治愈梳理发现，最早的官方措施来自于中国澳门。
Occasionally cured carding found that the earliest official measures came from Macao, China.
自 1 月 1 日，澳门卫生局人员开始对来自武汉航班的航班乘客逐一用测温枪筛查。
Since January 1, Macao's Health Bureau began screening passengers on flights from Wuhan using temperature guns.
港澳两地的民众在 SARS 的阴影下，开始抢购口罩和消毒产品。
People in Hong Kong and Macau rushed to buy masks and disinfect products in the shadow of SARS.
但与此同时，华南海鲜城周边的居民和商户却毫无察觉。
But at the same time, residents and merchants around Hai Xian City in South China are unaware of it.
界面媒体采访了当时较早发病的一位海鲜市场摊贩郑先生，其妻子黄女士表示：「我跟他住一起（医院）都没有要求我检查，说明这个不传染，也算是好事情。
Interface media interviewed Mr. Cheng, a seafood market vendor who developed early at the time, and his wife, Ms Wong, said: "It is good that I have not been asked to check that this is not contagious.
」事后，人们发现 1 月 5 日成了疫情披露的重要拐点，武汉进入两会时间，原本两日一通报的疫情一连 5 日未见更新，直到 1 月 11 日才恢复。
After the earthquake, January 5 was found to be an important inflection point for the spread of the epidemic. Wuhan entered the two-year period and did not renew the epidemic for the fifth consecutive day until January 11.
注意力被转移的一部分原因来自于科学界的发现。
Part of the reason attention has been diverted has come from scientific discoveries.
1 月7 日，中国科学家宣布新型冠状病毒是此次肺炎疫情的病原体，速度之快令全世界瞩目。
On January 7, Chinese scientists announced that the new coronavirus is the pathogen of the pneumonia epidemic.
这一成果再次让人们相信，即便是 SARS 重返，人们也不会像 17 年前应对 SARS 一样手足无措。
The result is yet another reason to believe that even a return to SARS would not be as overwhelming as the SARS response 17 years ago.
彼时，偶尔治愈在武汉走访时，华南海鲜城外仍然聚集着大量的商贩，人们讨论着休市对生意的影响，以及何时能够恢复。
While visiting Wuhan, a large number of vendors still congregated outside southern China's seafood city. There was a discussion about the impact of the holiday on business and when it would resume.
一名叼着烟的市民说自己是关闭的海鲜城西区二楼的眼镜城商户，下楼来看看热闹，并不认识被感染的商户，平日的交集大约就是上下楼的经过以及上厕所时的照面。
A cigar-smoking citizen said he was a glasshouse merchant on the second floor of the closed Seafood City West. He went downstairs to see the crowd. He did not know the infected merchants.
但引起偶尔治愈注意的原因是，这位市民并没有戴口罩，也丝毫看不出对这种尚不明确的肺炎疫情的恐惧。
But the reason for the occasional cures was that the citizen was not wearing a mask and did not see the slightest fear of the undefined pneumonia.
甚至，当时与休市海鲜城一路之隔的东区里还有一个正在营业的生鲜市场八古墩，似乎并未受到任何影响。
Even the eastern section, which was then separated from the city by Hainan City, had a fresh market open to business - eight ancient piers - that did not seem to be affected.
这样的气氛，让来到武汉的所有人都很难感受到这里发生了不为人知的大事，甚至更像是一场已结束的战役的尾声。
Such an atmosphere makes it hard for anyone who comes to Wuhan to feel the unknown events here, or even the end of a campaign that has ended.
而武汉官方的「尚无明确的人传人」口径第一次改为「不排除人传人」是在 1 月 15日武汉市卫健委官网的一份「新型冠状病毒的肺炎疫情问答知识」。
Wuhan's official "no-one-man-to-person" for the first time was changed to "do not exclude human-to-human transmission" in Wuhan on January 15, a network of health officials of Wuhan City "knowledge of the pneumonia epidemic of the new coronavirus.
该官网发布内容还披露，为加强溯源工作，在市场内采集环境标本进行检测。
The website also disclosed that in order to strengthen traceability work, environmental samples were collected in the market for testing.
「目前，检测结果发现部分样本新型冠状病毒阳性。
"At present, some samples were found to be positive for coronavirus.
」在此之前，路透社援引世界卫生组织人士消息称，武汉的新型冠状病毒可能出现有限的人际传播，不过这一说法随后被世卫组织在回复财新记者时予以一定否认，「并没有证据表明该冠状病毒会有限度人传人。
Earlier, Reuters quoted a WHO source as saying Wuhan could have a limited human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus, but this claim was later denied by the WHO in its response to the new reporter. "There is no evidence that there will be any human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus.
」据财新网 1 月 14 日报道，世卫组织专家也并不排除此可能，他们的理由是大多数呼吸道病毒都能人传人，只是传染性强弱程度不一。
WHO experts did not rule out the possibility, arguing that most respiratory viruses can be passed from person to person, albeit with varying degrees of infectivity.
更大的质疑源于境外不断报道的确诊病例。
The greater challenge stems from continuing reports of confirmed cases from abroad.
由于中国科学家向世界公布了新型冠状病毒的基因序列，日本、泰国都陆续证实，已有来自武汉的人员在其境内被发现确诊。
Since Chinese scientists have released the gene sequence of the new coronavirus, Japan and Thailand have confirmed that Wuhan-based personnel have been found in their territory.
而另一边，在 1 月 11 日至 1 月 15 日的武汉通报中，累计病例始终保持在 41 例，人们不禁开始讨论，「病毒都出国了，却为何还没出省。
On the other hand, with 41 cases reported in Wuhan between January 11 and January 15, people are beginning to discuss why the virus has gone abroad.
」这些民间声音给已然开始的春运高峰期蒙上阴影。
These folk voices cast a pall over what had already been the start of the spring rush.
与此同时，一些专家依然认为，被命名为 2019-nCov 的新型冠状病毒相比 SARS 在传染性和致死率方面更为温和，但另一方面，对于这种人类新发现的第七种冠状病毒仍有更多未知。
Meanwhile, some experts still believe that the new coronavirus, known as 2019-nCov, is milder in terms of infectivity and mortality than SARS, but there is still more to learn about the new coronavirus, the seventh coronavirus found by humans.
凤凰卫视《非典十年祭》专题中曾这样总结，作为一种烈性传染病，SARS 在早期人们对其知晓不多的情况下，仍然得到的结论是「未知、并不凶猛，经过一段时间治疗后得到缓解。
The Phoenix Satellite TV "Ten-Year Sacrifice of SARS" concluded that SARS, as a powerful infectious disease, had been "unknown, not fierce, and relieved after a period of treatment."
」直到数月后，SARS 从南到北，让北京经历换帅、新建小汤山医院等一系列事件后的疫情后半段，科学家才逐渐确认其为冠状病毒，并找到果子狸作为其中间宿主。
"It was not until a few months later, after the SARS epidemic from north to south, that Beijing experienced a series of events, including a change in style and the building of a new Xiaotangshan Hospital.
尽管 SARS 的面目逐渐清晰，但此时人们才惊觉：「我们对其所有的认识，是以生命作为代价的。
Although the face of SARS has gradually become clear, it is then that people realize that "all we know about SARS comes at the cost of our lives."
」23 日，武汉封城。
Wuhan Sealed on February 23.
对应病毒源头的忽略，抗击举措的滞后，也越发「明晰」起来。
The neglect of the source of the virus, the lag in the fight against it, has also become more "clear."
一度不设防的武汉三镇分别作为第一批赶赴武汉志愿的国家卫健委高级专家组成员和病毒学研究领域专家，曾光和管轶的观点差异明显。
Once unguarded, Wuhan Sanzhen as the first group of voluntary national health committee members and virology research experts, Zeng Guang and Guan Yi's views are obviously different.
曾光认为，武汉封城后，初步效果 5 至 10 天将见分晓。
Zeng Guang believes that Wuhan after the closure of the city, the initial effect of 5 to 10 days will be known.
春运结束前，疫情上升势头会得到一定程度遏制，此后即可择机进入「围歼战」。
Before the end of the Spring Festival, the epidemic will be contained to a certain extent, after which the opportunity to enter the "round-up battle."
香港大学新发传染性疾病国家重点实验室主任管轶则忧虑封城效果，因为此举已错过「黄金防控期」。
Guan Guan, director of the University of Hong Kong's National Key Laboratory for Emerging Infectious Diseases, worries about the closure because it has missed the "golden control period."
在财新网的采访中，管轶解释道，21 日起，武汉街头人流即明显减少；而此前出城人群或已感染且尚在潜伏期等可能性，导致「移动病毒」的存在风险。
In an interview with Caixin, Guan explained that the flow of people on the street in Wuhan had decreased significantly since 21, while the likelihood of leaving the city or being infected and incubating period had led to the existence of "mobile virus."
实地调研后，管轶直言，直到 22 日，武汉依旧「不设防」。
After on-the-spot investigation, Guan Yi said directly until the 22nd, Wuhan is still "not fortified."
从风险治理的角度，中国人民大学公共管理学院教授、国发院研究员刘鹏认为，这本质上是一个社会风险链的逐步形成和强化过程。
From the perspective of risk management, Liu Peng, a professor at the School of Public Administration at Renmin University of China and a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, thinks that this is essentially a process of gradual formation and strengthening of the social risk chain.
1 月 25 日的最新数据显示：武汉外，湖北 11 市确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例数为 434。
According to the latest data from January 25, 434 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been confirmed in Hubei Province.
黄冈及孝感相对严重，分别为 122 和 55 。
Huanggang and filial piety were relatively serious, 122 and 55 respectively.
国际社会风险治理的经验总结，应对不确定性的社会风险强度和程序上主要有两种原则：防范原则（preventive principle）和预防原则（precautionary principle）。
The international community's experience with risk management suggests that there are two main principles for dealing with the intensity and process of social risk of uncertainty: the precautionary principle and the precautionary principle.
防范原则强调的是政府和社会与对于风险治理的行为必须以科学为依据，在科学上有充分证据证明因果关系之后才能采取行动，即「宁可漏，不可错」。
The precautionary principle emphasizes that government and society and behaviour towards risk management must be based on science, with sufficient scientific evidence to prove causality before action can be taken, that is, "leakage is better than error."
不过随着人类面临越来越多短期内无法在科学上确定因果关系的风险，预防原则应运而生。
But the precautionary principle has emerged as humanity faces a growing risk that causality cannot be scientifically established in the short term.
具体说：由于科学对于一些未知风险的因果关系证明具有局限性，或者需要比较长期的时间和投入，因此在特定时期基于一些相关性的证据就可以采取行动，即「宁可错，不可漏」。
In particular, given the limitations of science with regard to causal relationships for some unknown risks or the need for longer-term time and investment, action can be taken on the basis of some relevant evidence at a given time, namely, "Better wrong than lost."
实践表明，预防原则在应对涉及到关系到健康、安全与环境等人类社会根本利益的新型未知风险时，要比防范原则更为适用和有效。
Practice has shown that the precautionary principle is more applicable and effective than the precautionary principle in dealing with new and unknown risks related to the fundamental interests of human society, such as health, safety and the environment.
而具体到武汉疫情的防控问题上来看，武汉铁路局曾预计春运（1 月 10 日至 2 月 18 日）发送旅客 2439 万人次。
As for the prevention and control of the Wuhan epidemic, Wuhan Railway Bureau had predicted that Chunyun (January 10 to February 18) sent 24.39 million passengers.
据百度地图慧眼监测，封城前，自武汉出发的人群，部分前往河南、湖南、重庆等地外，多数集中在湖北省内，尤以黄冈、孝感为主。
According to Baidu map eye monitoring, before the closure of the city, from Wuhan, part of the crowd to Henan, Hunan, Chongqing and other places, mostly concentrated in Hubei Province, especially Huanggang, filial piety.
1 月 25 日的最新数据显示：武汉外，湖北 11 市确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例数为 434。
According to the latest data from January 25, 434 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been confirmed in Hubei Province.
黄冈及孝感相对严重，分别为 122 和 55 。
Huanggang and filial piety were relatively serious, 122 and 55 respectively.
一位汉口站工作人员对偶尔治愈表示，虽 1 月 14 日起，武汉「三站一场」开始红外测温，但现场缺乏卫生防疫人员指导监督，「通报或可以让人安心，但具体落地措施却无人盯控」。
A Hankou station worker told an occasional cure that although "three stops" in Wuhan had started infrared temperature measurement since January 14, there was a lack of health and epidemic prevention personnel at the scene to provide guidance and supervision.
巨大客流量中，车站一线工作人员直至 20 日才配发口罩。
Large passenger flow, station front-line staff did not wear masks until 20.
1月19日，武汉百步亭社区的万家宴引争议 资料图武汉的这种以防范原则为基础的不设防，某种程度上成为其他城市的疫情防控带来隐患。
January 19, Wuhan Baebuting community multi-family banquet cited controversial data map Wuhan based on the principle of prevention of this kind of defenseless, to some extent has become the other cities of the epidemic prevention and control brought hidden dangers.
支援武汉的上海市医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏最新发文称，现在的主要困难，就在于其他各省的输入性病例。
Zhang Wenhong, director of the infection department at Huashan Hospital and head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group supporting Wuhan, said the main difficulty lies in imported cases in other provinces.
「当某一个城市的不明原因肺炎中出现冠状病毒，而且源头不清的时候，预示着该城市已经失去了初期防控的黄金窗口，可能要出现进入二代病例传播的持久战阶段。
"The presence of a coronavirus in an unidentified pneumonia in a certain city at an indeterminate source indicates that the city has lost its golden window of initial control and may be in a protracted phase of second-generation transmission.
」而造成这样的结果，张文宏回溯认为，很快出现的一系列聚集性发病案例没有受到重视，是武汉之殇的关键节点。
As a result, Zhang Wenhong retrospective believes that a series of fast-emerging cases of aggregation have not been taken seriously and are the key node of Wuhan's war chest.
一些关键细节值得反思。
Some key details merit reflection.
1 月 10 日，偶尔治愈走访发现，当时集中收治病患的金银潭医院，既已出现家住武昌，中途短暂停留孝感，且无华南海鲜市场（汉口江汉区）直接接触史的相关病例。
On 10 January, an occasional cure visit revealed that the gold and silver pool hospital, where patients were being treated, had developed a short stay in Wuchang and had no history of direct contact with the South China seafood market (Hankou Jiang Han District).
回顾推测，疫情在当时或已开始扩散，且存在人传人的可能。
In retrospect, the epidemic began to spread at that time or has begun to spread, and there is the possibility of human-to-human transmission.
另据财新网报道，同在 1 月 10 日，无华南海鲜市场接触史的武汉同济医院急诊科医生，出现感染症状，后转入金银潭医院治疗。
Also on January 10, the emergency department of Wuhan Tongji Hospital, which has no history of contact with the South China seafood market, developed symptoms of infection and was transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital for treatment, Caixin reported.
然而，武汉卫健委在 1 月 11 日通报称，未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
However, Wuhan Health Commission reported on January 11 that no cases of infection by medical personnel were found and no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission was found.
直到1月20日，国家卫健委高级专家组组长钟南山对镜头证实，肯定存在人传人且医务人员感染的情况，舆论哗然。
Till Jan. 20, Zhong Nan-shan, the head of the National Fitness and Health Commission's senior expert group, told the camera that there must be human-to-human transmission and infection of medical personnel.
此外，多方信源证实， 1 传 14 「超级传播者」事件医院——武汉协和医院相关医生证实，20 日前，既无相关部门关于疫情的警示，更被要求不可私下议论。
In addition, multiple sources confirmed that 1-14 "super communicator" incident hospital - Wuhan Hsiao He hospital doctors confirmed that 20 days ago, neither the relevant departments of the warning of the epidemic, but also was asked not to discuss in private.
医务人员外，部分病患家属亦曾收到特殊「提醒」。
In addition to medical staff, some family members of patients have received special "reminders."
一位在武汉市中心医院（后湖院区）排队 4 天后，于 1 月 7 日转院至金银潭医院的病患家属对偶尔治愈表示，当时接到转院通知时，即被警告不得接受媒体采访和外界问询。
After four days of queuing at Wuhan Central Hospital (Houhu District), the family members of the patient who were transferred to the hospital on 7 January indicated that they had been warned not to give media interviews and external inquiries when notified of the transfer.
其中一个关键原因是，当时至少武汉中心医院内，就已「聚集」很多疑似病例，正在等待转院或其他安排，该病患家属说道。
A key reason was that at least Wuhan Central Hospital had already "gathered" a number of suspected cases and was awaiting transfer or other arrangements, the patient's family said.
1 月 20 日，武汉成立新型冠状病毒疫情防控指挥部。
On January 20, Wuhan established a new coronavirus epidemic prevention and control command.
直至 23 日，金银潭医院及武汉市肺科医院外，24 家医院完成临时改造，作为发热门诊收治医院，疫情中的武汉医院联动「联合诊疗」，方真正成型。
Up to 23, 24 hospitals, except the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Wuhan Lung Hospital, completed temporary renovation to serve as fever clinics.
但各医院的防护物资短缺，已让救治陷入困境。
But hospitals have run into trouble because of shortages of protective equipment.
一名被感染的武汉三甲医院医生，经《中国新闻周刊》详述道，自我隔离治疗后，发现封城状态下，上级部门又禁止各医院私自接受款物捐赠。
An infected doctor at Wuhan Sanjia Hospital, who was treated by China News Weekly, found that under the state of isolation, hospitals were forbidden to accept donations without permission.
「就像一个战士，没有枪，还要去上战场」。
"Like a soldier who has no gun and goes to war."
为解燃眉之急，武汉市各医院决定「越过武汉市卫健委」，集体发布接受社会捐赠公告。
In order to solve the urgent problem, Wuhan City hospitals decided to "over Wuhan City Health Commission," the collective announcement of acceptance of social donations.
至 1 月 25 日，丁香园核实汇总的湖北省防护物资求助医院达 44 家。
By January 25, the clove orchard had verified and consolidated 44 hospitals in Hubei province for protective materials.
另一方面，外界看来破釜成舟的封城之举，却很快暴露出准备不足的弊端。
On the other hand, the outside world seems to break the vessel into the closure of the city, but soon exposed the drawbacks of inadequate preparation.
公共交通停摆，医护人员出勤受阻，人们不得不自发组成志愿车队。
Public transportation was suspended, medical personnel were prevented from attending, and people had to form volunteer convoys spontaneously.
据悉，逾 4000 辆私家车志愿报名接送医护人员，但仅隔一天之后，武汉城区再次禁止私家车禁行，一些医护人员出行再次陷入困境。
It is reported that more than 4,000 private cars volunteered to transport medical staff, but only a day later, private cars were again banned in Wuhan city, causing some medical staff to get into trouble again.
春节除夕夜，医院的「自救」行动网络热度几乎超过春晚，彻底刺痛社会关注。
Chinese New Year's Eve, the hospital's "self-help" action network fever almost exceeded the Spring Festival Evening, thoroughly stung the social concern.
1 月 25 日，党中央成立由中央政治局常务委员会领导的应对疫情工作领导小组；国家卫健委组建 6 支共 1230 人的医疗救治队驰援武汉，同时召集 6 支后备梯队随时待命；武汉市防控指挥部举行调度会，决定火神山医院外，半月内再建雷神山医院。
On January 25, the Central Committee of the Party established a Leading Group to Address the Epidemic Disease under the leadership of the Standing Committee of the Politburo. The National Health Commission set up six 1230 medical teams to help Wuhan and called up six reserve teams to be on standby at any time.
商务部则开始统筹协调安徽、江西、河南、湖南、重庆等地商务主管部门，协调落实口罩等货源 200 万只；工信部向武汉紧急调用防护服 1.4 万件及医用手套 11 万双的同时，协调落实口罩货源 300 万只，防护服货源 10 万件，护目镜货源 2180 副。
The Ministry of Commerce began to coordinate the implementation of two million masks and other sources of goods in Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan, Hunan and Chongqing commercial departments. While urgently mobilizing 14,000 protective suits and 110,000 pairs of medical gloves to Wuhan, the Ministry of Industry and Communications coordinated the implementation of three million masks, 100,000 supply suits and 2,180 pairs of goggles.
此外，军队医院及各地医务人员的赴汉相助，正持续进行。
In addition, military hospitals and medical personnel from all over the country are continuing to assist China.
似乎，自上而下的效率联动，亦如武汉市长周先旺对疫情的评价，突然且迅猛。
It seems that top-down efficiency linkage, such as Wuhan Changzhou Xianwang evaluation of the epidemic, suddenly and rapidly.
一度被折叠的情绪爆发封城后，空无一人的武汉长江大桥图源：受访者供图终于，此前一直被隐藏或被隐忍的情绪，瞬间爆发。
After the collapse of the mood, the empty Wuhan Yangtze River Bridge map source: the interviewee finally, has been hidden or suppressed emotions, an instant explosion.
1 月 23 日，武汉市第五医院进行住院病人清退，确诊患者收治的过程中，急诊科主任郑先念因物资短缺和心理重压，在与医院沟通时，近乎崩溃至哭嚎。
On January 23, 2007, the Fifth Wuhan Hospital conducted in-patient evacuation, confirmed the admission of patients, emergency department director Zheng Xiangnan due to material shortages and psychological pressure, when communicating with the hospital, almost broke down to cry.
据健康时报报道，当日武汉市第五医院因住院协调等问题引起冲突。
According to the Health Times, Wuhan Fifth Hospital on that day due to hospital coordination and other issues caused conflict.
而诸如此类的紧急和无奈，正难以控制地发生在武汉，以及其周边黄冈、孝感等县市。
And such emergencies and helplessness, is difficult to control in Wuhan, as well as its surrounding Huanggang, filial piety and other counties.
继 20 日、23 日、24 日连续召开国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控工作机制会议后，国务院副总理孙春兰表态道：当前疫情传播还没有阻断，呈扩散态势。
Following the meeting of the State Council on February 20, 23 and 24, Vice Premier Sun Chunlan said, "The spread of this disease has not been halted.
各地各有关部门要增强责任感紧迫感，采取更加严格、更有针对性的举措。
The departments concerned everywhere should strengthen their sense of responsibility and sense of urgency and adopt more stringent and targeted measures.
张文宏则强调，目前举全国之力支援武汉后，武汉以外其他城市管理层，现在须面临的，正是武汉 2019 年 12 月底同样的问题。
Zhang Wenhong stressed that after the current national support to Wuhan, Wuhan outside other city management, now have to face Wuhan end of December 2019 is the same problem.
武汉外，湖北疫情最为严重的黄冈，于 1 月 25 日开始对大别山区域医疗中心进行紧急改造，以确保黄冈版小汤山医院在 27 日即可投入使用。
Wuhan, the worst outbreak in Huanggang, began emergency renovation of the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center on January 25 to ensure that the Huanggang version of Xiaotangshan Hospital becomes operational on January 27.
偶尔治愈自孝感市第一人民医院了解到，目前孝感医疗防护资源匮乏，急需援助。
Occasionally cured from filial piety from the first people's hospital learned that the current filial piety medical protection resources are scarce, in urgent need of assistance.
各医院外，孝感防控指挥部则配合发布通告，以确保捐赠物资的接受调配。
Outside hospitals, the Filial Piety Control Command coordinates the issuance of circulars to ensure the distribution of donated materials.
湖北省外，各地的防控措施则同步升级。
Outside Hubei province, the prevention and control measures of each area are simultaneously upgraded.
在春节返乡人员与尤为集中的河南，严苛落实到镇村的「硬核」举措，引发热议不断。
In the Spring Festival returnees and particularly concentrated in Henan, strict implementation of the village to the "hard core" initiative, has triggered hot debate.
如此情形下，针对目前全国性的危情深陷态势，张文宏援引知名病毒学家，中国工程院院士闻玉梅所言提醒道：早期武汉疫情是盲目乐观，现在则过度恐慌，反而不能科学对待眼前的疫情。
In such a situation, Zhang Wenhong quotes renowned virologist Wen Yumei, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, as a warning that the early Wuhan epidemic, which was blind and now too panicky, could not be dealt with scientifically.
为此，张文宏建议，预期在武汉外的防疫工作上，必须严格做好病例筛查，迅速确诊，精确分检。
To this end, Zhang Wenhong suggested that outside Wuhan in the anti-epidemic work, must strictly do a good job of case screening, rapid diagnosis, accurate screening.
「该隔离隔离，该回家回家。
"It's isolation. It's time to go home.
」如果病例数较多，超出当地医院的承受能力，那么按照轻症病例可以居家隔离的策略，也能达到阻止病例扩散的要求。
If the number of cases is too large for local hospitals to bear, the strategy of home isolation in light cases can also meet the requirement of preventing the spread of cases.
身在疫情前线的武汉大学医学部传染病学教授桂希恩，则更为积极地表示，新型冠状病毒的完全控制应快于 SARS，预计正月十五前，武汉疫情可能将出现回落。
Guixian, professor of infectious diseases at Wuhan University's Department of Medicine, who is on the front line of the outbreak, said more positively that the new coronavirus should be under full control faster than SARS.
不过，经历过此前凡种，专家意见中的乐观「回流」，已很难引起民众信任。
But after all that has been done before, the optimistic "backflow" of expert opinion has hardly gained the public's trust.
与此同时，各地问责或已开始自下而上进行。
At the same time, local accountability or bottom-up processes have begun.
1 月 25 日，湖南省岳阳市南湖新区卫健局局长唐虎，因防控信息报送延时而被停职。
January 25, Yueyang City, Hunan Province, Nanhu District Health Secretary Tang Hu, the prevention and control of information submitted to the delay was suspended.
为武汉疫情中，首个被惩处的地方官员。
Wuhan is the first local official to be punished for the outbreak.
撰稿：左异、刘楚 编辑：李珊珊排版：何跃 刘楚偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
Writing: Editor Liu Chu: Li Shanshan's composition: He has occasionally cured to-cure-sometimes--of people living with illness, old age, and death. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉不设防。
Wuhan is not fortified.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉不设防";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan not & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情初期，那家休市的海鲜市场，展现在来访者面前像是一场已结束的战役的尾声，然而……";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
