是什么导致千名医务人员被感染？。
What caused thousands of medical personnel to become infected?
马肃平。
Mashuping.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月5日，武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇（左）走进隔离病房准备救治患者，一名医生在他的隔离服上写下名字。
February 5, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Director of Severe Medicine Peng Zhiyong (left) into the isolation ward to treat patients, a doctor wrote his name on his isolation clothes.
（新华社/图）全文共2830字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2,830 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
很多医护人员被感染恰恰发生在疫情初期，且相当一部分是被无症状传播者感染。
Many health-care workers are infected precisely in the early stages of the epidemic, and a significant proportion are infected by asymptomatic transmissions.
南方周末记者统计发现，眼科、神经外科、肝胆胰外科、妇科、肝病科等非重点防控的普通科室，均有人员感染。
Southern Weekend reporter statistics found that ophthalmology, neurosurgery, hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery, gynecology, liver disease and other general departments of non-focus prevention and control, all have human infection.
“前一天，他还是你的同事战友，转眼就成了你的病人，甚至天人两隔。
"The day before, he was your colleague, and in a moment he was your patient, even between heaven and man.
”“只要按要求做，不太可能有人感染。
"As long as you do it, no one is likely to get infected.
我带他们来，也要一个不少带他们回去。
And I will bring them again, and a great many shall bring them back.
”广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富说，随着医护人员防护意识的提高，防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少。
Zhang Nofu, vice-dean of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, said fewer and fewer medical staff should be infected later in the year as health care workers become more aware of protection and protective measures are in place.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平责任编辑 |曹海东抢救室里躺着4位新冠肺炎患者，见患者病情还算稳定，一位同事建议所有医护人员再去做一次CT。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这一天，是2020年1月26日。
The date is 26 January 2020.
两天前，武汉市中心医院急诊科护士林婷刚做过一次CT，一切正常。
Two days ago, Wuhan Central Hospital emergency nurses Lin Tingjust did a CT, everything is normal.
为安全起见，她还是跟着同事一起排队缴费去了。
To be on the safe side, she queued up with her colleagues to pay the bill.
来回憋气吐气照了三次CT，还没等林婷从CT床上坐起，CT室的同事就冲出操作间，“你的片子有问题，估计是感染了，赶紧跟院里上报！”所有人一下子围到林婷身边，调出CT影像，一张张地翻。
Before Lin Ting sat up on the CT bed, her colleague rushed out of the operation room. "There's something wrong with your film, I think it is infected, report it to the hospital!" All of a sudden around Lin Ting, out of CT images, one after another.
切面上，一团白色的影像映入大家眼帘，紧接着又有一张，一共翻出5张切面异常。
On the cut surface, a mass of white image into everyone's eyes, immediately followed by another, a total of 5 cut surface anomalies.
这一天，林婷从一名护士变成了病人。
That day, Lin Ting from a nurse to a patient.
2月14日，国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新在国新办举行的疫情防控最新进展及关爱医务人员举措发布会上，首次披露了医务人员感染新冠肺炎的数据：截至2月11日24时，全国共报告1716名医务人员被感染，其中湖北全省占了近九成，共1502例，武汉一线有1102名医务人员确诊感染。
On February 14, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Council, made the first disclosure of figures on nosocomial pneumonia among medical personnel at a briefing on the latest progress in the prevention and control of the epidemic and the Care and Care Initiative.
1716名医务人员中，6人不幸殉职，其中就包括武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮，湖北省中西医结合医院耳鼻喉科医生梁武东，华中科技大学附属同济医院器官移植科林正斌。
Six of the 1,716 medical personnel died in the line of duty, including Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, Liang Wudong, an otorhinolaryngologist in Hubei Province, and Colin Zhengbin, an organ transplant in Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
早在2月初，一张带有中国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）标志的图片就显示，武汉市医务人员中确诊和疑似病例数已接近千人，该统计只包括了确诊医护人员在15例以上的医院，武汉协和医院、武汉大学人民医院成为重灾区。
As early as early February, a picture with the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) logo showed that the number of confirmed and suspected cases among medical personnel in Wuhan was close to one thousand.
当时，武汉大学人民医院的多位医生向南方周末记者证实了该院数字的真实性。
At that time, doctors from Wuhan University People's Hospital confirmed the authenticity of the hospital's figures to Southern Weekend reporters.
1猝不及防的感染直至今日，林婷还是搞不明白，自己怎么就感染上了病毒。
Unexpected infection until today, Lin Ting or do not understand how they infected with the virus.
她回想起1月初，急诊科病房收治了5位来自华南海鲜批发市场的患者，发烧不断，CT显示清一色的“白肺”。
She recalls that in early January, the emergency ward admitted five patients from the South China Wholesale Seafood Market with fever and CT findings showing a clear "white lung."
管床医生给急诊科主任和护士长打了电话，第二天凌晨2点，护士长带着林婷和几个值夜班的女同事，把之前的更衣室、柜子、高低床、废弃的一排排板凳全部拖了出来，再搬进病床、氧气罐，迅速把这几个病人转出来。
The doctor called the director of the emergency department and the head nurse. At 2 a. m., the head nurse, together with Lin Ting and several night-shift female colleagues, pulled out all the previous dressing rooms, cabinets, low and low beds, abandoned benches, moved into beds, oxygen tanks, and quickly moved the patients out.
随后，几位同事将之前的病区全部消毒。
Subsequently, several colleagues disinfected all the previous areas.
现在想来，林婷仍觉后背发凉。
Come to think of it, Lin Ting still feel cold back.
当时的防护措施几乎为零，她戴着两层外科口罩，穿着一件蓝色的隔离衣，和几位被感染的患者共处一室，待了整整一晚。
She was wearing a two-storey surgical mask, wearing a blue paraphernalia and sharing a room with several infected patients for a whole night.
居家隔离十多天，林婷的病情时好时坏，终于在2月11日接到护士长电话，“有床位了，赶紧准备住院”。
Home isolation for more than 10 days, Lin Ting's illness from time to time bad, finally in February 11 received a call from the head nurse, "there are beds, hurry to prepare for hospital."
路过住院部过道，她碰到科室的一位同事，寒暄几句后，对方突然崩溃大哭，告诉她好累好怕，医院已有超过百位同事陆续确诊或疑似感染。
After passing through the hospital hallway, she met a colleague of the department. After a few words of greeting, the other party burst into tears and told her that she was very tired and afraid.
武汉市中心医院（后湖院区）是离华南海鲜批发市场最近的一家医院，开放超过五百张床位，在最早一批定点医院中，开设的床位数仅次于金银潭医院，也是为此次疫情付出最多、受伤最深的医院之一，除了去世的眼科医生李文亮，多位医生和科主任被插管抢救。
Wuhan Central Hospital, the nearest hospital to the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, opened more than 500 beds. Among the first designated hospitals, the number of beds was second only to that of gold and silver.
“前一天，他还是你的同事战友，转眼就成了你的病人，甚至天人两隔。
"The day before, he was your colleague, and in a moment he was your patient, even between heaven and man.
”从1月中下旬至今，武汉市中心医院护士石楠已经上了整整一个月的班，超负荷的工作加上心理煎熬，让她不知还能坚持多久。
"Since late January, Shanan, a nurse at Wuhan Central Hospital, has been on duty for an entire month, overworked and psychologically drained, leaving her wondering how long she can hang on.
在官方尚未确认病毒“人传人”特性时，新冠肺炎并没有引起医护人员足够的警惕。
When the official human-to-human nature of the virus has not been confirmed, the new crown pneumonia has not caused enough vigilance among health-care workers.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇告诉南方周末记者，很多医护人员被感染恰恰发生在疫情初期，且相当一部分是被无症状传播者感染。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told Southern Weekend that many health care workers were infected at the beginning of the outbreak, and many were infected by asymptomatic carriers.
南方周末记者统计发现，眼科、神经外科、肝胆胰外科、妇科、肝病科等非重点防控的普通科室，均有人员感染。
Southern Weekend reporter statistics found that ophthalmology, neurosurgery, hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery, gynecology, liver disease and other general departments of non-focus prevention and control, all have human infection.
1月中旬，武汉大学人民医院一名医生参与了一台肺癌手术。
In mid-January, a doctor at Wuhan University's People's Hospital underwent lung cancer surgery.
没过几天，他接到医院通知：手术病人已被确诊为新冠肺炎，手术中的“一助”也被确诊感染。
A few days later, he was informed by the hospital that the patient had been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia and that his "first aid" during the operation had been confirmed.
该医生告诉南方周末记者，自己也被要求在家接受隔离观察，好在最终无恙。
The doctor told Southern Weekend reporter that he, too, had been asked to observe quarantine at home, but had survived.
在彭志勇研究的武汉大学中南医院138名确诊患者中，从1月1日到1月28日，有40名医务工作者被感染，“相对于全院三千多员工，这已经是很小的比例。
From January 1 to January 28, 40 of the 138 patients diagnosed at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital were infected, "a small percentage of the hospital's more than 3,000 staff.
”彭志勇说，感染最多的不是ICU、感染科或急诊科等科室，而是普通科室的医务人员共31人。
Mr. Pang said the highest number of infections was not in departments such as the ICU, infection or emergency department, but in the general section, which had a total of 31 staff.
一名患者因腹部症状住进了肝胆胰外科，后被确诊了新冠肺炎，该患者感染了和他相关的十余名医护人员，其中一名医生又将病毒传染给了家人。
One patient was admitted to hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery for abdominal symptoms, and was later diagnosed with Newcastle pneumonia. The patient was infected with a dozen health-care workers associated with him, one of whom passed the virus on to his family.
2防护措施不过关不进病房，防护物资不到位不上“战场”冲在最前线的医护人员被感染或被隔离而无法上班，剩下的医护人员，不管来自哪个科室，经过紧急培训后转岗，像“炮弹”一样顶上，这已成为特殊时期的常态。
It has become the norm in special times that medical personnel, regardless of their section, are infected or isolated and left behind after emergency training to work at the top of a "shell."
“就算是在呼吸科、感染科或ICU，平时也没那么多机会上三级防护，更别说其他科室了。
"Even in the respiratory department, the infection department or the ICU, there aren't many opportunities for tertiary protection, let alone other departments.
”暨南大学附属第一医院感染控制办公室主任陈祖辉说。
Chen Zuhui, director of infection control office at Jinan University First Hospital, said.
三级防护适用于为病人实施吸痰、气管切开、气管插管和其他可引发气溶胶操作的医护人员。
Tier 3 protection is used to provide suction, tracheotomy, endotracheal intubation and other medical personnel who can initiate aerosol operation.
1月24日晚，陈祖辉和首批128名广东省援助湖北医疗队队员出征武汉，他们立下规矩：防护措施不过关不进病房，防护物资不到位不上“战场”。
On the night of January 24, Chen and his first 128-member medical team from Guangdong province, who helped Hubei medical team travel to Wuhan, laid down the rule that no protective measures will enter the ward and no protective materials will be available for the battlefield.
全力筹备防护物资，成为保护医护人员的头等大事，驰援医院都自觉带物资前来。
Make every effort to prepare protective materials, become the most important thing to protect medical personnel, rushed to the hospital consciously with supplies.
“前期自己带一部分，广州后方陆续补给，还有就是社会捐赠。
"The first part of their own, Guangzhou rear supplies, and is a social donation.
”广东医疗队援助的汉口医院，是武汉最早收治新冠肺炎的定点医院之一。
Hankou Hospital, which is assisted by Guangdong Medical Team, was one of the first designated hospitals in Wuhan to treat new crown pneumonia.
陈祖辉所在的呼吸内科二病区，每天靠调拨获得的N95口罩只有10个，而每日实际使用量超过120个。
Chen's respiratory department, No. 2, received only 10 N95 masks a day through redeployment, compared with more than 120.
2月10日，武汉市中心医院护士梅澜戴着一层普通白色口罩和一次性医用口罩，给病人采集咽拭子样本。
February 10, Wuhan city central hospital nurse Mei Lan wearing a layer of ordinary white mask and disposable medical masks, patients to collect swabbing samples.
病人一个张嘴动作，就将产生大量携带病毒的气溶胶。
A patient who opens his mouth will produce a large number of virus-carrying aerosols.
面对这种风险，N95口罩、防护服、护目镜和面屏是标配。
In the face of this risk, N95 masks, protective clothing, goggles and face screens are the norm.
“什么防护都缺，拿什么去战斗？”梅澜说。
"What protection is lacking, what to fight with?" said Mei Lan.
医用物资最紧缺的时候，一个N95口罩都没有，她穿着一抬手就破两个洞的防护服，用垃圾袋当脚套。
When medical supplies were in short supply, there was no N95 mask. She wore a protective suit with two holes in her hands and a garbage bag for her feet.
2月14日，武汉市中心医院继续发布公告：因医院消耗量大，医院库存十分紧缺，恳请社会各界援助医用物资。
On February 14, Wuhan Central Hospital continued to issue a notice: Because the hospital consumption is large, the hospital stock is very scarce, implore the community to help medical supplies.
3“一个不少地回去”如何避免院内感染，一直是令各家医院挠头的难题。
How to avoid nosocomial infection is always a problem for hospitals to scratch their heads.
“现在防的就是院内交叉感染，作为院感（即院内感染控制）人的压力很大。
"Now the prevention is the hospital cross-infection, as hospital infection control (hospital infection control) the pressure is very high.
”陈祖辉说。
"said Chen.
汉口医院原本是一家二级综合性医院，和武汉市的很多医院一样，新冠肺炎疫情发生后，医院转移病人、腾空病房后，被改造成了专门收治发热病人的定点医院。
Hankou Hospital was originally a secondary general hospital. Like many hospitals in Wuhan, the hospital was transformed into a designated hospital for treating febrile patients after the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia.
“刚来的时候压力很大，缓冲区连灯都没有，医护人员没法穿脱防护服。
"There was a lot of pressure when we first arrived. There were no lights in the buffer zone and medical staff could not take off their protective clothing.
”陈祖辉回忆，被改造后的病区起初还存在着院内感染的隐患——虽临时隔出两个缓冲区，但墙壁是三夹板粘的，漏风，只能找师傅重新弄。
Chen recalled that the renovated area initially had the potential for nosocomial infections - temporary separation of two buffer zones, but walls with three splints of sticky, leaking air and had to be reworked by a master.
医护人员脱下的防护服、N95口罩等高危医疗废物，起初也堆在缓冲区来不及清理。
Medical staff took off their protective clothing, N95 mask and other high-risk medical waste, also initially piled in the buffer zone too late to clean.
在汉口医院，医生每6小时换班，护士4小时一班。
At Hankou Hospital, doctors change shifts every six hours and nurses work every four hours.
每天，陈祖辉和另两名负责院感的同事督促队友穿好防护服，检查过关才放行进入病区；换班时，他们守在缓冲区，看着医护人员正确脱下防护服，指导队员处理个人卫生。
Every day, Chen and two other hospital colleagues urged his teammates to wear protective clothing and check in before releasing them into the sick area. During the shift, they stayed in the buffer zone and watched the medical staff take off their protective clothing correctly and instruct their members in personal hygiene.
1月底第一次进入隔离病区时，有队员在缓冲区迟迟不动，“我害怕，想再等等其他人，搭个伴。
When I first entered the quarantined area at the end of January, some members of the team remained motionless in the buffer zone.
”那几天，有患者没能抢救过来，90后护士从未经历过这样的场面，隔离病区仿佛一个未知的世界。
"In those days, patients failed to rescue, 90 after the nurses have never experienced such a scene, isolation of the disease area seems to be an unknown world.
陈祖辉理解她们的心情。
Chen Zu-hui understood their feelings.
陈祖辉说，只要做好防护，医护人员被感染的风险其实很低。
'As long as we do a good job of protection, the risk of infection is very low, 'Mr. Chen said.
目前，128名队员无一人感染。
At present, none of the 128 players is infected.
驻扎在武汉协和医院西院区的广州医疗队目前同样零感染，“只要按要求做，不太可能有人感染。
The Guangzhou medical team, based in the west courtyard of Wuhan Concorde Hospital, is also zero-infected. "As long as it is done as required, no one is likely to get infected
我带他们来，也要一个不少带他们回去。
And I will bring them again, and a great many shall bring them back.
”广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富说，随着医护人员防护意识的提高，防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少。
Zhang Nofu, vice-dean of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital, said fewer and fewer medical staff should be infected later in the year as health care workers become more aware of protection and protective measures are in place.
（为保护隐私，文中林婷、石楠、梅澜为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(To protect privacy, Lin Ting, Hei Nan, MeiLan call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers in the front line of the new crown pneumonia news clues.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
是什么导致千名医务人员被感染？。
What caused thousands of medical personnel to become infected?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "是什么导致千名医务人员被感染？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
