武汉病人：以家庭为单位感染的案例越来越多 求治无门只能拖着。
Wuhan patient: With the family as the unit of infection more and more cases of seeking medical treatment can only be delayed.
AI前哨站。
AI Outpost.
AI前哨站                      。
AI Outpost.
AI前哨站。
AI Outpost.
奇点来临前，我们期待建立怎样的人工智能伦理和规则？欢迎来AI SPACE讨论！。
What kind of AI ethics and rules do we expect to establish before singularity? Welcome to AI SPACE discussion!
“时间就是生命，收治工作刻不容缓，必须争分夺秒，全力以赴救治患者。
"Time is life, treatment work without delay, we must seize every second, focus on the treatment of patients.
”近日，中央赴湖北指导组就新冠肺炎防治连续发出指示，要真正做到应收尽收、不漏一人。
"Recently, the central government went to Hubei guidance group on the prevention and treatment of new crown pneumonia issued successive instructions, to really do receivable, do not leak a person.
然而，记者了解到，武汉的社区和医院仍处于过载状态，许多无法得到及时救治的患者被迫在家隔离，周边照料的亲人也因此相继被感染。
However, the reporter learned that the community and hospitals in Wuhan is still in a state of overload, many patients who could not be treated in a timely manner were forced to isolated at home, the surrounding care relatives have been infected.
怎样控制家庭中的交叉感染？如何保障“应收尽收”的落实？问题迫在眉睫。
How to control the cross-infection in the family? How to ensure the implementation of "receivable"? The problem is imminent.
全家四人先后感染，母亲在方舱医院转为重症连日来，中央一再强调，不折不扣落实“四类人员”分类集中管理措施，“应收尽收、不漏一人”。
The central government has repeatedly stressed that the centralized management measures for the classification of the "four categories of personnel" should be strictly implemented, so that "no one should be left out."
“四类人员”，包括确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
"Four categories of people," including confirmed patients, suspected patients, can not exclude the possibility of infection febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
但在医疗资源严重不足的情况下，大多数获得关注的都是确诊的重症患者。
But in the face of a severe shortage of medical resources, most of the attention has been given to diagnosed severe cases.
被划入其他类型的市民只能苦苦等待，有些人甚至从密切接触者一步步拖成感染者。
Those classified as other categories of citizens have had to wait, and some have even moved from close contacts to infected persons.
李山的母亲年过六旬，前不久确诊感染，却找不到有床位的医院。
Li Shan's mother, who was over 60, was recently diagnosed with an infection and was unable to find a hospital with beds.
经过多方反馈，李山终于将母亲送进武汉国际会展中心的方舱医院。
After feedback from many, Li Shan finally sent his mother to Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center of the square cabin hospital.
然而，9日中午通电话时，母亲却告诉他，自己的情况不太好。
However, during a telephone conversation at noon on the 9th, his mother told him that she was not doing very well.
“她是6号进的方舱医院，现在轻症已转为重症，出现呼吸困难。
"She was admitted to the No. 6 cabin hospital and is now suffering from severe respiratory distress.
方舱医院没有治疗设备，人手也不足，医生每天只能帮忙量体温，给点消炎药。
Fang cabin hospital does not have treatment equipment, manpower is insufficient, the doctor can only help measure body temperature every day, give point antiphlogistic medicine.
就相当于换个地方隔离。
It's like isolating another place.
”李山告诉记者。
Li Shan told reporters.
李山一家六口，母亲最先出现症状，随后是父亲。
Li Shan family six people, the mother first appeared symptoms, followed by the father.
但此前老两口去医院时，医院却拒绝给李山父亲做检查。
But the old couple went to the hospital, but the hospital refused to give Lee Shan father an examination.
“医生让我父亲过一个星期再去，但过了两天我父亲就觉得不对劲，又去了一趟医院才给做。
"The doctor told my father to go for a week, but after two days my father felt something was wrong and went to the hospital again.
”他说，上报社区后，父亲被安排到了武汉女子医院的隔离点。
After reporting the incident to the community, the father was placed in an isolation ward at Wuhan Women's Hospital, he said.
但那里就像宾馆一样“只能管吃管住”，父亲至今还没有得到任何治疗。
But it was like a hotel, "only food and shelter," and his father has not yet received any treatment.
更糟糕的是，连日奔波下来，李山也已经确诊感染新冠肺炎，爱人则是高度疑似。
To make matters worse, Li Shan has been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia and the lover is highly suspicious.
两人的确诊过程和父亲类似，反复跑了几趟医院要求检查未果，最近才在社区得到检查机会。
The two were diagnosed in a process similar to that of their father, who repeatedly went to the hospital unsuccessfully to request an examination and were recently offered an opportunity to be examined in the community.
“之前我想在武汉第一医院告检查，也跟医生说了我父母都感染了，但医生说症状不重不能做，只给做血常规和CT。
"Before I wanted to report to Wuhan First Hospital, I told the doctor that my parents were infected, but the doctor said the symptoms are not serious can not do, only for blood routine and CT.
2月7日下午在社区医院采集检测样本，8日我被确诊感染了，我老婆还需观察。
February 7 afternoon at the community hospital to collect test samples, 8 I was diagnosed with infection, my wife also need to observe.
”2月8日，李山求助社区，被告知先回家等待，晚上八点社区会安排李山住院，并安排其家人隔离。
On February 8, Li Shan sought help from the community, which was told to wait for him first. At 8 p.m., Li would be hospitalized and his family separated.
但李山等到八点后，又被告知当天安排不了，需要在家等通知。
But Li Shan waited until 8 o'clock, was told that the day could not be arranged, need to wait at home notice.
现在，李山和爱人仍然在家，家里还有两个孩子，大的八岁，小的只有四个月。
Li Shan and his wife are still at home with their two children, the oldest being eight years old and the youngest only four months old.
虽然孩子暂时没有出现症状，但李山担心，孩子感染只是时间问题。
Although the child did not show symptoms for a while, but Li Shan worried that the child infection is only a matter of time.
除了吃饭，一家人在家里全天戴着口罩，包括睡觉的时候。
In addition to eating, the family wears masks throughout the day at home, including during sleep.
医院现在收不收小孩？是不是需要去儿童医院？去了医院会不会感染风险更大？这几天，李山每天都很纠结。
The hospital does not collect the child now? Need to go to children's hospital? Can go to the hospital can infect risk more? These days, Li Shan is very entangled everyday.
“希望政府能把方舱医院的设备、药物和人手都配齐，让里面的病人尽快得到治疗，同时把重症病人早点转到正规医院。
"I hope the government will fully equip, medicate and staff the cabin hospital so that the patients can be treated as soon as possible," he said.
现在很多人没法确诊或者没法治疗，反复地去医院也很危险，容易导致病情扩散。
Many people are now undiagnosed or untreatable, and repeated visits to hospitals are dangerous and prone to spread.
像我们这样确诊的，其实也怕传染给更多的人。
The diagnosis, like ours, is in fact afraid of infecting more people.
”李山说。
"said Li Shan.
疑似患者难以被确诊和收治，家庭感染案例层出不穷令人焦心的是，在武汉，像李山这样的家庭还有许许多多。
Suspected patients are difficult to be diagnosed and admitted to treatment, family infections are constantly emerging worrying, in Wuhan, such as Li Shan family there are many.
一家人在居家隔离中先后出现不适、反复联系医院却被告知没有床位、无法住院治疗只能在门诊排队五六个小时打针……他们每天的生活，就在这样漫长的煎熬中度过。
The family, uncomfortable in their isolation, repeatedly contacted the hospital but were told there were no beds, could not be hospitalized and had to wait five or six hours for injections in the outpatient department... their daily lives were spent in such a long ordeal.
王丽今年22岁，是武汉某大学的应届毕业生，家住江岸区。
Wang Li, 22, is a fresh graduate of a university in Wuhan. She lives in Jianjiang.
1月26日，她的父亲因高度疑似新冠肺炎，被送至武钢二医院进行隔离。
On January 26, her father was placed in isolation at Wuhan Iron and Steel Company II Hospital for suspected pneumonia.
不久后，作为密切接触者的母亲也出现肺炎症状，定点医院CT显示“双肺感染”。
Shortly after, the mother, who was in close contact, also developed symptoms of pneumonia, and the designated hospital CT showed "two lung infections."
王丽立刻将情况上报社区，希望社区给母亲安排核酸检测。
Wang Li immediately reported the situation to the community, hoping that the community will arrange nucleic acid testing for the mother.
但是社区却要求王丽的母亲先去隔离点，理由是母亲属于发热患者。
But the community asked Wang Li's mother to go to the quarantine site, on the grounds that the mother was febrile.
无奈之下，王丽将母亲送到了江岸区后湖大道市民之家附近的指定隔离点。
In desperation, Wang Li sent her mother to the river bank area Houhu Avenue near the citizens' homes designated isolation points.
随后，王丽再次联系社区街道办请求核酸检测，对方却表示隔离点有统一安排，要看隔离点的负责人怎么说。
Later, Wang Li contacted the community street office to request nucleic acid testing, but the other side said that the isolation point has a unified arrangement, depending on what the person in charge of the isolation point said.
王丽转而联系隔离点，只得到“我了解，会尽快上报”的回复。
Wang Li instead contact the isolation point, only get "I understand, will report as soon as possible" response.
就这样，王丽陷入了隔离点和街道办互相推脱的困境。
In this way, Wang Li fell into the isolation point and street offices each other out of the dilemma.
不做核酸检测、无法确诊，意味着母亲无法得到及时治疗。
The absence of nucleic acid testing and the inability to diagnose mean that mothers do not receive timely treatment.
“妈妈所在的隔离点没有吸氧机，也没办法输液，她一个人在酒店跟我说她害怕。
"There was no oxygen machine or transfusion at my mother's isolation point, and she told me she was afraid at the hotel alone.
她想打针，她很难受，她想活下来。
She wants an injection. She's upset. She wants to live.
”王丽说。
'said Wang.
而在另一边，王丽的父亲没能等到及时的治疗。
On the other hand, Wang Li's father did not wait for timely treatment.
她告诉记者，父亲在7日出现休克状态，随后转到武汉协和医院，医生诊断是因为肺炎引发了心肌炎、脑栓塞。
She told reporters that her father on the 7th state of shock, and then transferred to Wuhan Concorde Hospital, doctors diagnosed pneumonia caused by myocarditis, cerebral embolism.
就在昨天上午，47岁的王丽父亲已经不幸去世。
Only yesterday morning, the 47-year-old Wang Li's father had died.
王丽的父亲在医院。
Wang Li's father is in the hospital.
8日晚上，王丽去汉口医院做了CT，也发现了轻度感染情况。
On the night of the 8th, Wang Li went to Hankou Hospital for a CT scan and also found a mild infection.
但是现在，她顾不上确认病情，只盼着母亲能早点确诊并得到治疗。
But now, instead of confirming her condition, she hopes her mother will be diagnosed and treated earlier.
与王丽类似，家住汉阳区的余婷也是家人感染后求助社区未果，目前自己也出现身体不适。
Similar to Wang Li, Yu Ting, who lives in Hanyang District, is the victim of her family's failure to seek help from the community.
余婷回忆，她的父亲1月底就已经拍了CT显示“双肺感染”，家人赶紧联系社区做核酸检测。
Yu recalled that her father had taken a CT scan at the end of January showing a "two-lung infection," and the family quickly contacted the community for a nucleic acid test.
但是，连续六天联系社区，得到的都是“我们只能汇报，不能解决”的答复。
However, for six days in a row, the community was contacted with responses that "we can only report, we cannot resolve."
等待期间，她不得不带着父亲到家附近的医院门诊打针消炎，眼看着父亲从轻症转成了重症，却找不到医院可以收治。
Waiting, she had to take her father home with the hospital out-patient injections to eliminate inflammation, saw his father from mild to severe, but could not find hospital treatment.
更让余婷担心的是，之后父亲可能连打针的地方都没有了。
What makes Yu Ting worry more is, after father may not even have the place that punches.
“周围一些医院的门诊已经关闭了。
"The clinics at some of the hospitals around have been closed.
我父亲在社区推荐的汉阳医院打针，打了6天没有好转，又自己去硚口区肺科医院看了4天。
My father in the community-recommended Hanyang Hospital injection, played for six days did not improve, and went to Zaikou District Lung Hospital to see for four days.
如果父亲的病一直得不到救治，可能我也管不上自己。
If my father's illness remains untreated, I may not be able to manage myself.
”她说。
'she said.
余婷陪父亲去肺科医院打针时拍的照片。
Yu Ting accompanied his father to the lung hospital injection when the photo.
这些层出不穷的案例，反映出武汉当前的尴尬局面：市民在医院只能做CT检查，到社区做了核酸检测才能确诊；社区的人力严重不足且职权有限，无法及时安排市民进行核酸检测；在等待确诊的过程中，患者的家人作为密切接触者，也相继出现感染甚至全家感染；他们无法得到确诊和治疗，只能反复前往社区或医院门诊，加剧疫情的扩散风险。
These endless cases reflect the current embarrassing situation in Wuhan: citizens can only do CT examinations in hospitals, to the community nucleic acid testing can only be confirmed; the community seriously understaffed and limited mandate to arrange timely public nucleic acid testing; pending diagnosis, family members as close contacts, even entire families; unable to access diagnosis and treatment, can only repeatedly travel to the community or hospital clinic to increase the risk of the epidemic.
隔离点没有治疗措施，患者也无法自行用药记者注意到，重要要求实行“四类人员”分类集中管理措施后，许多疑似患者、发热患者被集中到隔离点。
No treatment was available at the quarantine site, and patients were unable to use their own drugs. Journalists noted that many suspected and febrile patients were concentrated in isolation points after the central administration of the classification of "four categories of people" was required.
由于疫情形势紧张，隔离点只能先暂时安置患者，进一步的处理、上报及送医工作最近才缓慢走上正轨。
Due to the tense situation of the outbreak, isolation points can only temporarily relocate patients, further processing, reporting and delivery of health care has only recently been slow on the right track.
何冉一家住在蔡甸区，他太太除夕时出现了咳嗽、发热的症状，第二天便跟社区做了报备并进行自我隔离。
He Ran family lives in Cai Den District. His wife developed cough and fever on New Year's Eve. She reported to the community the next day and isolated herself.
在外求诊期间，太太的症状逐渐加重，何冉听说打球蛋白有用，就托朋友买了几支。
During the out-patient consultation, his wife's symptoms gradually aggravated, He Ran heard playing globulin useful, trusted friends to buy some.
他们本来想在发热门诊开药后到社区医院打针，发现社区打不了，只能去定点医院的发热门诊。
They wanted to be inoculated in the community hospital after the fever clinic prescribed drugs, found that the community can not fight, can only go to the point of the hospital fever clinic.
“人太多了，打个针都排个把小时。
There are so many people that we have to wait for an hour with a needle.
”2月2日，何冉陪太太在医院打针时，突然接到社区的统一隔离通知。
He was with his wife in hospital on February 2 when he received a unified quarantine notice from the community.
“当时非常仓促，我们就简单收拾了一下，自己开车去到指定地点时已经夜里11点多了，也不知道该找谁。
"We were in such a hurry that we simply packed up and drove ourselves to the designated spot after 11: 00 in the night, not knowing who to call.
然后碰到一个接诊的人，跟他报了名字，他就把我老婆带到四楼去了。
Then he met a man who was attending the clinic, gave him his name, and took my wife to the fourth floor.
那里可能是紧急安排出来的一个地方，上楼时还看到有人打扫卫生。
It might have been a place arranged on an emergency basis, and someone had been seen cleaning up the stairs.
我老婆分到房间的时候都凌晨1点了。
When my wife was assigned to her room, it was 1: 00 a.m.
她说看到洗脸池里面还有血迹，也不敢用，反正就先住着。
She said she saw blood in the sink and dared not use it anyway.
”何冉说。
He Ran said.
然而，和李山、王丽家人遭遇的情况一样，何太太在隔离点里也没有得到有效的治疗，只有医护人员过来查体温或询问情况。
However, as in the case of Li Shan and Wang Li's family, Mrs. He did not receive effective treatment in the quarantine, and only medical staff came to check her temperature or ask questions.
3日下午，医生开了一盒莲花清瘟胶囊给她，并给她做了核酸检测。
On the afternoon of March 3, the doctor wrote her a box of lotus rinderpest capsules and tested her for nucleic acid.
太太想接着打门诊医生开的药，却被告知不能打外带的药。
The wife wanted to go on taking the medicine prescribed by the doctor, but was told not to take it out.
“我们吃了十几天的药了，从单肺感染吃到双肺感染，还不能证明吃药没有作用吗？之前通过打针和补充球蛋白，症状有好转，所以觉得应该继续打针。
"We've been taking drugs for a dozen days, from a single lung infection to a two-lung infection, and we can't prove that taking drugs doesn't work? The symptoms have improved with injections and globulin supplementation, so I think we should continue the injection.
为什么不让打针，然后又去吃什么莲花清瘟胶囊？”何冉很着急，怕太太的病情又出现反复。
Why not give an injection, and then go eat what lotus rinderpest capsule? He Ran is very anxious, afraid of his wife's illness repeated.
他联系社区，希望社区帮忙协调安排，也没能成功。
He contacted the community in the hope that the community would help coordinate the arrangements, but also failed.
所幸的是，在隔离点做完核酸检测的次日，何太太就确诊感染了新冠肺炎，并于当晚住进了医院。
Luckily, the day after doing a nucleic acid test at the quarantine site, Mrs. He was diagnosed with pneumonia and admitted to the hospital that night.
何冉说，现在他太太的病情有所好转，已经没有了呼吸困难的症状。
He said his wife is getting better now. She no longer has symptoms of breathing difficulties.
在陪太太辗转问诊的这几天，何冉也出现了咳嗽和发热的症状。
He Ran also developed cough and fever during the few days he spent with his wife during the consultation.
他怀疑自己也感染了，但CT显示没有出现“毛玻璃样”阴影，医生说只是有些炎症。
He suspected he was infected, but CT revealed no "glass-like" shadows, and doctors said there was only some inflammation.
他向社区报备后，于2月5日住进了另一家隔离点。
After reporting to the community, he was moved to another quarantined site on 5 February.
这家隔离点目前已经接收了三十多个确诊患者的密切接触者。
The site has so far received close contacts with more than 30 confirmed patients.
何冉所在的隔离点。
He Ran is in quarantine.
根据何冉的观察，隔离点判断病情的主要依据是体温，只有体温异常可能会被送去医院。
According to He Ran's observations, the main basis for judging the condition at the quarantine site is body temperature, which alone can be taken to hospital.
他发现，还有的人自己在家隔离了十几天，在这边只隔离了一两天，只要总计超过14天，就可以回去了。
Some, he found, had been isolated at home for only a day or two, and for a total of more than 14 days.
何冉在隔离点接到的材料。
He Ran received the material at the quarantine point.
目前何冉的病情比较稳定，还在吃之前从协和医院开的药，如果药吃完了可以跟隔离点的人员反映，他们会派人送他去医院开药。
He Ran is now in stable condition. He is still prescribed medicine from Concorde Hospital before eating. If he finishes his medication, he will be sent to the hospital to be prescribed medicine.
“刚进来的时候，这里隔离的人好多都怨声载道，工作人员也忙乱不堪，几天之后都渐渐适应了，相比现在还没有被收治的，我们太幸福了！”2月7日，他去协和医院做了核酸检测，结果还没有出来。
"When I first came in, many of the people in the quarantine were complaining and the staff was busy, getting used to it after a few days, and we were so happy that we didn't get treated!
（文中李山、王丽、余婷、何冉为化名）。
Li Shan, Wang Li, Yu Ting and He Ran are aliases.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉病人：以家庭为单位感染的案例越来越多 求治无门只能拖着。
Wuhan patient: With the family as the unit of infection more and more cases of seeking medical treatment can only be delayed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "AI前哨站";。
Var nickname = & quot; AI Outpost & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉病人：以家庭为单位感染的案例越来越多 求治无门只能拖着";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan patient: & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉的社区和医院仍处于过载状态，许多无法得到及时救治的患者被迫在家隔离，周边照料的亲人也因此相继被感染。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan's community and hospital remain overloaded, with many patients unable to be treated promptly forced to stay at home, and with it relatives in care.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="AI前哨站";。
var title = & quot; AI Outpost & quot;;
