此后如竟没有炬火 我便是唯一的光：一周组建落地的网络志愿者们此后如竟没有炬火 我便是唯一的光：一周组建落地的网络志愿者们AI前哨站原创2020-02-12 23:16查看2020年1月22日，一个叫A2N的互联网志愿者群体发布了一份长达4000多字的辟谣文稿，当时，街上的人大多还没有戴起口罩，有人在慌乱中买回成堆的板蓝根，还有人相信喝酒、抽烟能够抵御病毒……两天后，这份辟谣文稿的阅览量达到100万次，这个以90后为主体的志愿者小组也在几天时间内迅速发展起来。
I am the only one without a torch since then: I am the only one who has not carried a torch since then. A group of Internet volunteers called A2N launched a 4,000-word ballad program on January 22, 2020.
“从成立、专业化分工到落地执行，时间没有超过1周”，现在，A2N在互联网上拥有全国各省市和海外的35个微信社群、23个不同省市的地方在线协作文档和一个实时疫情网站，分成翻译组、辟谣组、科普组、物资组、文档组等各类志愿小组，他们的工作也从疫情辟谣扩展到国外文献翻译、科学知识普及、物资信息联络匹配等全方位的志愿者群体。
A2N now has on the Internet 35 micro-communities in provinces and cities and overseas, 23 local online collaboration files in different provinces and cities, and a real-time epidemic website. Their work has expanded from rumour denial to volunteer groups such as translation of documents, popularization of scientific knowledge and matching of material information.
1“网上铺天盖地的信息，却不知道该相信什么”A2N（Anti-2019-nCoV，抗击新型冠状病毒）志愿小组发起人杨高杰本来是生活在武汉的创业者。
"There is so much information on the Internet, but I don't know what to believe," said Yang Gaojie, a founder of the volunteer group Anti-2019-nCoV, a volunteer group that originally lived in Wuhan.
1月18日，他听人说“武汉有新冠病毒”，当天又在朋友圈看到有人分享一篇论文，文中推断武汉实际感染人数可能不低。
On January 18, he heard that "Wuhan has a new crown virus," and on the same day saw friends share a paper in which they inferred that the actual number of infections in Wuhan may not be low.
于是，杨高杰开始关注这次疫情。
As a result, Yang Gaojie began to pay attention to the epidemic.
1月22日，大学校友找到他，说看到谣言很多，希望一起做一点辟谣的工作，杨高杰立刻答应了。
On January 22, college alumni came to him and said they had seen a lot of rumors and wanted to do a little disinformation together. Yang immediately agreed.
建立辟谣微信群的同时，杨高杰在1月22日还创建了一份在线协作文档，希望能把一些值得关注的信息源和求证过的辟谣信息放到文档中。
Along with the rumor-fighting crowd, Yang created an online collaboration document on January 22, hoping to document sources of interesting information and proven disinformation.
他当时大概没有想到，此后会有那么多人加入这份文档的协作编辑行列，短短两天内，文档阅读量达到了100万次。
He probably didn't think there would be so many collaborative editors behind the document, with a million page views in just two days.
辟谣微信群的发展也超乎想象得快。
The development of rumor-fighting micro-groups has also outpaced imagination.
“的确是铺天盖地的消息，我也不知道该去相信什么东西”，95后安松松因同样的原因在1月23日加入微信群，并在此后负责A2N的地方社群管理。
"It's really a deluge of news, and I don't know what to believe," 95 Ansussuong joined the microcosm on January 23 for the same reason, and later managed the local community responsible for A2N.
一开始，安松松和其他核心参与者会先建好各省市微信群，将群二维码发布在社交平台上，招募全国各地的志愿者，随后会逐一与加入的志愿者沟通，了解背景、意向和活跃度等，再组建出各地方小组的管理团队。
Initially, Ansussuo and other core participants will build provincial and municipal micro-credit groups, publish groups of two-dimensional codes on social platforms, recruit volunteers from around the country, and then communicate one by one with the volunteers they join to learn about their backgrounds, intentions, and activities, and form management teams for each local group.
不同省市的微信群一个一个建立，大量想要在疫情中帮忙的网友加入，“那一阵子我记得我的嗓子都哑了，因为每天要跟大家聊天”，安松松告诉南都记者，总部管理组更多充当志愿引导和信息标准化工作，帮助新加入者快速上手，其余多由地方自行发挥，以A2N山东省地方社群为例，所属志愿者多为IT背景的大学生，他们自行搭建了网站发布当地信息。
"For a while I remembered I had a hoarse voice because I had to talk to everyone every day." Ansusong told Nanto reporters that the headquarters management team was playing more of a volunteer guidance and information standardization role to help new entrants.
“此后如竟没有炬火，我便是唯一的光”，这句话来自鲁迅的《热风》，列在了所有A2N在线协作文档中。
"If there is no torch thereafter, I am the only light," said Lu Xun from "hot wind," listed in all A2N online collaboration documents.
“这次疫情，我们便是抱着‘做能做的事，发能发的声’想法开始行动的”，杨高杰说。
"In this epidemic, we are starting to act with the idea of 'doing what we can do, making a sound'," Yang said.
A2N疫情实时平台http://a2n.io/?p=0。
A2N real-time platform http: / / a2n.io /? p = 0.
A2N新型冠状病毒最新疫情信息合集https://shimo.im/docs/9qrcKpDxHGttRkvP/read。
A2N New Coronavirus Information Collection at https: / / shimo.im / docs / 9qrcKpDxHGttRkvP / read.
2有人提出把物资留给最需要的人 也有人希望通过捐赠渠道获利除了辟谣、科普等工作，物资对接成了A2N一项极为重要的工作，主要内容是为湖北省各地医院与捐赠、货源、运输等多方人员做对接工作，此时，来自各地地方社群的信息发挥了作用。
In addition to rumour-telling and popular science work, material docking has become an extremely important task for A2N, mainly for the docking of hospitals with donors, suppliers, and transportation personnel from all over Hubei Province, where information from local communities plays a role.
A2N物资小组负责人泡芙正在读硕士，1月23号睡前，她在微博发现了杨高杰发起A2N成员招募，立即加入，当晚就和杨高杰规划组织架构到夜里三点多。
Before going to bed on January 23, she found out that Yang Gaojie had launched a recruitment drive for A2N members, joined immediately, and that night and Yang Gaojie planned the organizational structure until more than three o'clock at night.
从那以后，泡芙再也没有两点之前睡过觉。
Since then, Puff has never slept before two o'clock.
“现在醒着的时间都是盯着手机和电脑，微信和打电话对接，开始的时候家里人会骂，后来也习惯了。
"All waking hours are spent staring at cell phones and computers, answering and talking on the phone. At first my family scolded me, but later I got used to it.
每天三点多睡，早上基本都被自己惊醒，因为想到还有对接的工作，晚了货（注：物资）就没了，或者说怕耽误物资的运输。
I slept more than three o'clock every day, and was woken up by myself in the morning, for I thought of the docking work and the goods were gone late, or were afraid of delaying the delivery of goods.
另外，医生很忙，晚上下班晚，下班之后医生很累了，我们也不好再打扰”，泡芙说。
In addition, the doctor is very busy, after work at night, after the doctor is very tired, we are not easy to disturb, "said Puff.
泡芙介绍，他们前期为医院对接医疗物资时，会先审核需求方的信息，如医院等级、人数、床位数、接诊吞吐量等，然后与捐赠方商量决定最终定向医院，再通过司机志愿者进行物资传输。
She said that when they docked medical supplies for the hospital in advance, they checked the information on the demand side, such as hospital level, number of people, number of beds, throughput and so on.
“现在我们已经能直接联系上的医院将近100家，包括省级三甲、市县级定点医院、县镇级医院或卫生所、医疗队”，泡芙说，此外还能直接联系到医疗队及提供火神山、雷神山、方舱医院医患饮食的酒店等。
"We now have close to 100 hospitals that we can reach directly, including provincial hospitals, county-level designated hospitals, county-level hospitals or health clinics and medical teams," said Pove.
物资组对接期间，也有不少令泡芙印象深刻的事情——有些市县级医院主动提出只需满足最紧缺的物资需求，将更多的物资留给更需要的武汉一线；也有人谎称其家属所在医院是定点三甲医院，希望通过提供运输渠道，能够分得一半的物资捐赠。
During the docking of the material group, there were also many impressive incidents in which municipal and county hospitals offered to meet only the most urgent material needs, leaving more supplies to Wuhan, where more needs were needed, or falsely claimed that their families were in designated triple-A hospitals, hoping to receive half of the material donations through the provision of transportation channels.
泡芙回忆道，当时有捐赠方需要志愿者来运输武汉物资到黄冈最大的定点医院，在网上发布了求助信息并建立了微信群。
Puff recalled that donors needed volunteers to transport Wuhan materials to Huanggang's largest designated hospital, post help messages online and build a microcosm.
泡芙也加入其中，此时群里有人自称家属在黄冈 “集中收治肺炎病人的大医院”工作，表示可以帮忙联系车队运输，但希望能将捐赠物资的一半捐给其家属所在的医院。
Puff joined in, as family members claimed to be working at a "large hospital for pneumonia patients" in Huanggang, offering to help with convoy transportation but hoping to donate half of the donation to hospitals where their families live.
但A2N物资组查证发现，该人提到的医院既非三甲也非定点，且没有发热门诊。
However, the A2N material group found that the hospital to which the person referred was neither triple A nor designated and had no fever clinic.
最终，泡芙和团队还是联系了其他志愿者车队，将物资全部捐赠给急需物资的当地最大定点医院。
Eventually, she and the team contacted other volunteer convoys and donated all the supplies to the local largest designated hospital, where supplies were urgently needed.
随着医疗物资日益难觅，物资组现在经手非医疗物资较多，如成人纸尿裤、卫生巾、床单、被罩等。
As medical supplies become increasingly difficult to find, the material group now handles more non-medical items, such as adult diapers, sanitary towels, sheets, covers, etc.
泡芙告诉南都记者，现在医疗物资的货源少是全球问题，而医院非医疗物资的缺乏是源于较少的关注，武汉中心医院和协和医院都曾对他们表达急需充饥食物等需求。
Pouf told reporters in Nandu that the shortage of medical supplies is a global problem, while the lack of hospital non-medical supplies stems from less attention, and Wuhan Central Hospital and Concorde Hospital have expressed their urgent need for food and other needs.
泡芙说，近日社会才开始关注女性用品的问题，她认为这十分必要，尤其是武汉方舱医院，“那里现在几乎都是女性医护人员”。
Puff said the issue of women's sex products had only recently come to the fore and she felt it was necessary, especially at Wuhan Fangdao Hospital, where "there are almost all female medical workers."
此前，A2N曾帮忙捐赠水果给方舱医院，结果发现那边都是女性工作人员，没有人对接卸货。
Previously, A2N had helped donate fruit to the cabin hospital, only to discover that it was staffed by women and that no one had docked to unload the cargo.
“一个是太重，一个是人手短缺，照顾病患都忙不过来”，随后泡芙找了志愿者帮忙，物资才顺利抵达。
"One is too heavy, one is short of staff, take care of the sick are too busy," and then Puff found volunteers to help, supplies arrived smoothly.
A2N为黄冈中心医院对接100箱安心裤。
A2N docked 100 cases of comfort pants for Huanggang Central Hospital.
A2N供图。
A2N supply chart.
除了医院物资需求，泡芙他们也会接到疑似病患、包括孕妇、哺乳期妈妈等特殊人群的求助。
In addition to the hospital's material needs, she will receive help from people with special needs, including pregnant women and nursing mothers.
泡芙说，“我觉得一线志愿者需要有比其他志愿者更强大的内心”，在2月11号，他们还接到胃癌晚期的病人求助，因之前住的医院被征收，后续医疗措施又没有解决，病情骤然恶化，泡芙团队无法直接提供有效帮助，只能转发增加曝光度。
"I think first-line volunteers need to have a stronger heart than the other volunteers," said Puff, who on Feb. 11 received requests from patients with terminal stomach cancer, whose condition deteriorated sharply as a result of the imposition of a previous hospital and unresolved follow-up medical treatment.
“真的让人看到就想落泪，我们能给到的帮助太少了，经常会产生无力感”，泡芙说。
"People really want to cry when they see it. We can give too little help and often feel powerless," said Pove.
3武汉求助者分布地图：那些疑似患者在哪里？“武汉一线记者支持小组”是疫情爆发地另一个重要的互联网志愿者组织。
Wuhan distribution map of sufferers: Where are the suspected patients? Wuhan First Line Journalists Support Group is another important Internet volunteer organization in the outbreak area.
自疫情爆发以来， “肺炎患者求助”微博超话成为一个重要的求助方式。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, "pneumonia patients to seek help" micro-blog hyperspeak has become an important way to help.
截至记者发稿，该超话阅读量已高达16.4亿，1437个帖子中包括大量疑似新冠肺炎患者因所在城市的定点医院床位告急等问题，无法得到收治，甚至出现生活难以自理的情况。
So far, 1.64 billion people have read the hypertext, 1,437 posts including a large number of suspected cases of pneumonia due to the city's designated hospital bed crisis, unable to receive treatment, or even life difficult to care for themselves.
“武汉一线记者支持小组”注意到了这一情况，为了让救援团队能高效、精准援助这些患者，他们从2月4日起招募了11名志愿者，采集、核实该微博超话上的求助信息，且开发出“武汉求助者分布地图”——通过线上地图呈现求助者所居地点、具体情况等信息。
"Wuhan First Line Journalists Support Group" noted the situation, in order to enable rescue teams to effectively and accurately assist these patients, since February 4, they recruited 11 volunteers, collected, verified the Weibo super-phone help on the map, and developed "Wuhan distributed map" - the location, details and other information about the location of the sufferer.
武汉求助者分布地图https://stonelf.gitee.io/looking4help/。
Wuhan Supplier Distribution Map https: / / stonelf.gitee.io / looking4help /.
在这样的救治和数据采集核实过程中，志愿者承受着巨大的心理压力，因此团队要求负责核实信息的成员不能有抑郁症病史。
In the course of such treatment and data collection and verification, the volunteers were under great psychological pressure, so the team asked the members responsible for verifying the information not to have a history of depression.
“（前几天）晚上我崩溃了，然后就退出了所有社会救助项目的群，晚上还是睡不着，害怕，感觉不是做好事，做的都是亏心事，救谁？不救谁？似乎都是我来决定？”患有双相情感障碍的团队成员赵翔说，他从不敢参与此次求助信息的电话核实工作。
"I collapsed the other night, then dropped out of all the social assistance programs. I still couldn't sleep at night. I was afraid, I didn't feel like I was doing a good deed.
事实上，由于物资、人力的缺乏，该团队也难以帮助到大多数的人，有一些志愿者会提出疑问，核实工作是否会对求助者造成二次伤害。
In fact, the lack of material and human resources makes it difficult for the team to reach the majority of the population, and some volunteers question whether the work will cause secondary harm to the clients.
2月8号，赵翔再次加入了救助项目的微信群，他告诉南都，他们还会继续更新求助者分布地图，定时回访，让媒体和志愿者组织能够寻找救援到求助者。
On Feb. 8, Mr. Zhao rejoined the microcosm of the rescue program, telling Nandu they would continue to update the distribution map of sufferers and make regular return visits so that the media and volunteer organizations could find rescuers.
此外，赵翔还开通了问卷填写系统，方便求助者上传个人详细信息，录入到后台的地图数据中。
In addition, Zhao Xiang also opened a questionnaire to fill in the system, facilitate the user to upload personal details, enter into the background map data.
在志愿者核实信息后，他们还会将患者拉入微信群中，将信息提供给招募瑞德西韦临床研究的其他团队。
After the volunteers checked the information, they also pulled the patient into a microscopic group and provided the information to other teams that recruited Rhetsevier for clinical research.
4在官方推出更权威的相关工具之前，民间暂时填补了空缺技术的作用在这场防疫战役中越来越突出，随着求助者分布地图、疫情地图等越来越多的线上产品出现，A2N团队也正在补充推出区别于其他工具的功能，比如在地图上显示发热门诊和定点医院的位置、查看病例位置及其详细信息等。
Before the official launch of more authoritative tools, civil society has temporarily filled the role of vacancy technology in the epidemic prevention campaign, as more and more online products such as distribution maps, epidemic maps, etc., the A2N team is adding features that distinguish it from other tools, such as displaying the location of fever clinics and designated hospitals on maps, viewing case locations and their details.
“在官方推出数据更全、更权威的（疫情相关）工具之前，民间技术人员利用自己的能力暂时填补了空间”，A2N的技术人员大猫告诉南都记者。
"Before the official launch of more robust and authoritative tools, civilian technicians used their capabilities to temporarily fill the space," A2N's tech giant Cat told Nantou.
此前，大猫并没有参与过任何公益活动，在加入A2N之前他一直在看疫情相关新闻，“感觉非常焦虑但又不知道自己能做什么”，当看到有人转发需要人手整理疫情科普信息时，他“就很果断加入了”。
Before joining A2N, the cat had been watching news about the epidemic, "feeling very anxious but not sure what he could do," and he "decided to join" when he saw someone forwarding information that needed to be done to sort out the epidemic.
1月28号左右，大猫花费大约3天开发网页，2月1号联系了大学同学帮忙准备服务器，A2N实时疫情平台就这样在几天内上线了。
Around January 28, the big cat spent about three days developing the Web, and on February 1 contacted college classmates to help with server preparation. Thus, the A2N real-time outbreak platform went live in a matter of days.
不同于新加入者大猫，负责开发“武汉求助者分布地图”的黄希彤是中国信息技术公益联盟的发起人之一，曾参与过汶川地震公益项目等的技术支持和咨询活动。
Unlike the new entrant cat, Huang XiTong, who is responsible for developing the "Distribution Map of Wuhan Seekers," is one of the founders of China Information Technology Public Interest Alliance and has participated in technical support and consultation activities such as the Wenchuan Earthquake Public Interest Project.
他告诉南都记者，即使经过几次大的“战役”锻炼，许多公益组织的信息沟通、协同共享仍然存在部分效率低下问题——“求助者不得不多方求助、公益组织重复录入”等。
He told Nandu reporters that even after several major "campaign" exercises, many public-interest organizations still suffer from some inefficiencies in information communication and collaborative sharing - "clients have to turn to multiple sources for help and public-interest organizations to re-enter."
杨高杰也发现同样问题，A2N在疫情前期主要负责辟谣、科普、物资对接等工作，随着整个社会投入到抗击疫情中，他们开始适当减少物资对接等重复工作；当有媒体开始翻译医学领域的最新相关论文，他们的翻译组转向关注其他国家在疫情防控中的经验教训。
Yang Gaojie also found the same problem, A2N in the early stage of the epidemic mainly responsible for refuting rumors, popular science, materials docking and other work, as the whole community into the fight against the epidemic, they began to appropriately reduce the docking of materials; when the media began to translate the latest relevant papers in the field of medicine, their translation teams turned to other countries' experience in disease control.
为此，黄希彤呼吁技术圈为此类事件的公益组织准备好信息管理、沟通的解决方案，比如跨组织信息共享平台。
To this end, Wong called on the technical community to prepare for such events pro bono organizations to prepare information management, communication solutions, such as cross-organizational information-sharing platform.
他告诉南都记者，基于区块链的去中心化是较好的解决方案，各组织既能以己为中心，又能将其他区块链节点的数据同步过来。
He told Nandu that de-centralization based on the chain of blocks was a better solution, as organizations could both be self-centred and synchronize data from other block-chain nodes.
大猫、安松松、杨高杰、泡芙均为化名采写：南都记者陈志芳编辑：蒋琳区块链移动互联网科技40对这篇文章有想法？跟我聊聊吧陈志芳蒋琳。
Big Cat, Ansong Song, Yang Gaojie, Puff are all taken as pseudonyms: Nandu reporter Chen Zhifang, editor: Jiang Lin block chain mobile internet technology 40 have thoughts on this article? Talk to me Chen Zhifang Jiang Lin.
南都新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Nandu News can not be reproduced without authorization.
授权联系方式：banquan@nandu.cc，020-87006626。
Authorized contact details: banquan @ nandu.cc, 020-87006626.
。
.
阅读 5314江门市志愿者投身战“疫”  ，助力防疫物资企业生产！APP内打开03:08好暖心!江门鹤山一餐馆寒夜里通过志愿者为防疫一线人员送热粥APP内打开01:04战“疫”前线，江医职青年志愿者逆路前行打开南方都市报南都江门志愿者增援广州企业，医疗物资产能翻3倍，但复工后将面临减产APP内打开01:54分享成功关注南方都市报公众号获取最值得一读的好新闻一件睡衣扛过整个春节，感谢互联网郑州“小汤山”医院投用：AI辅助诊断新冠肺炎，20秒可出结果查看更多独家报道陈志芳南方都市报记者有料请找我，记者帮你忙“这次疫情，我们便是抱着‘做能做的事，发能发的声’想法开始行动的”，杨高杰说。
2008-12-15 09: 40 2008-12-10 09: 07: 48 Chinese New Year Party: New Year's Eve Chinese New Year call for help from volunteers at a restaurant in the southern city of Heshan, Jiangmen, New Year's Eve!
。
.
var author_uid = '2035',// 完善打赏参数，日志用到。
var auther _ uid = & apos; 2035 & apos; / / Rewards Parameters, used in logging.
sourceType = '原创',。
Source Type = & apos; formerly & apos;.
rewardstat = 1, // 赞赏开关。
Rewardstat = 1, / / Appreciative switch.
replystat = 1,//评论开关。
Replystat = 1, / / comment switch.
rewardtext="", // 赞赏文字。
Rawardtext = & quot; & quot;, / or complimentary.
wxOauthOnoff=true,//是否做微信授权。
wxOauth Onoff = true, / / whether to grant permissions.
junziicaiImgUrl="http://img1.mp.oeeee.com/202002/12/750x500_5e4411d273855.png";//君子爱财收藏文章功能小程序图片。
JunziicaiImgUrl = & quot; http: / / img1.mp.mp.oeee.com / 202002 / 12 / 750x500 _ 5e4411d273855.png & quot; / / Esquire & Rich Collection article features a picture.
//微信。
/ / Message.
//todo待优化。
/ / todo to be optimized.
//后台运营标签控制区域S。
/ / Backstage Operation Label Control Area S.
//后台运营标签控制区域E。
/ / Backstage Operation Label Control Area E.
分享到最新南都独家内容请扫码下载南都App南方都市报小程序。
To share the latest South all exclusive content please scan code download the south of the App Southern Metropolis Daily small program.
