逆风之下，共享住宿平台与房东的向阳而生。
Under the contrary wind, the shared accommodation platform and the landlord Xiangyang.
杨洁。
Yang Jie.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/杨洁编辑/大风进入一月份，张靖炜早早开始了准备。
As Wen / Yang Jie edits / gales enter January, Zhang Jingwei starts his preparations early.
他是一名90后，同时也是爱彼迎等共享住宿平台上的一名房东，和大学同学共同运营着19间民宿，房源位置分散在西安钟楼附近，这里也是各地游客青睐的目的地之一。
A 90-year-old homeowner on a shared-accommodation platform such as Episode I, he runs 19 residential properties with his college classmates, scattered near Xi'an Bell Tower, one of the most popular destinations for tourists.
春节前后是开年第一战，也是所有民宿房东极其期待的旺季。
Spring Festival around the opening of the first war, but also all residential landlords are looking forward to the peak season.
按照往年的惯例，春节前后的业绩一般占到全年营收的五分之一。
According to the usual practice, Spring Festival around the performance of the year to account for a fifth of revenue.
截止到1月10日，在爱彼迎平台上，张靖炜的预订申请已经排到了2月份，每日的房源预订全满。
By January 10, Zhang had booked himself on the Episode II platform until February, with daily bookings full.
为了迎接这个高峰期，张靖炜给自家民宿备足了洗发水、沐浴露等清洁用品，房间的保洁、日用品、基本保障也早已安排妥当。
In order to meet the peak, Zhang Jingwei prepared their own home shampoo, shower gel and other cleaning products, room cleaning, daily necessities, basic security has also been arranged.
他等待着开个好头，如无意外，在春节前后的两个月份，张靖炜的房费收入每个月约达10万元左右。
He waited for a good start and, if nothing happened, Zhang Jingwei's room fees amounted to about $100,000 a month for the two months before and after the Spring Festival.
但突如其来的疫情打破了原有的计划，就像一台时钟，突然发出“归零”的声音。
But the sudden outbreak broke the original plan, like a clock, suddenly issued a "zero" voice.
平台上不断取消的订单、高额的房租、物业费、未知的疫情发展，都成了他心头的刺。
Repeated cancellations of orders on the platform, high rents, property fees, and an unknown outbreak of disease have become thorns in his mind.
张靖炜所运营的民宿之一张靖炜的故事并非孤例，疫情危机引起的连锁效应，把不少企业的节奏打乱。
The story of Jing Wei, one of Mr Zhang's residential residences, is not alone, with the ripple effect of the crisis disrupting the pace of many businesses.
其中，被寄予厚望的酒旅行业突然踩下一脚刹车，像多米诺牌一样，自下而上地给整个行业带去了突发的压力。
Among them, the hoped-for travel industry suddenly stepped on the brakes and, like a domino, brought sudden pressure to bear on the industry from the bottom up.
企业的救援也在同时开展，包括爱彼迎、小猪、途家在内的共享住宿平台，推出了针对疫情的应急措施，最大程度去保证房东和客人的权益。
Corporate relief efforts are also under way, including a shared accommodation platform that includes Episode, Piggy and Tourists, and an emergency response to the epidemic that maximizes the rights and interests of landlords and guests.
这场突如其来的事件称得上对共享住宿平台业务的一次历练。
The surprise incident was an experience for the shared-accommodation platform business.
艰难处境下，平台和房东都正等待着春天的到来和行业的复苏。
In tough times, both platforms and landlords are waiting for spring and a revival of the industry.
一场突如其来的战役对张靖炜来说，这场冲击几乎是突如其来的。
For Zhang, a surprise battle, the shock was almost sudden.
1月11日，他在平台上收到了首单退订申请，原定于大年初二到初五预订房源的的客人，商议退订，在春节前后，这算得上罕见的情况。
On January 11, he received his first application for cancellation on the platform. Guests who had been due to book their rooms between the second day of the New Year and the fifth day of the Lunar New Year, negotiated cancellations, which were rare around the Spring Festival.
对方是来自武汉的四口之家，本想在春节期间带着父母出游，然而陆陆续续的肺炎消息，让他们做出了取消的决定，在房客的认知中，这算得上是“不可抗因素”，希望房东能够进行免责退款。
The other party is from Wuhan family of four people, would like to take their parents to travel during the Spring Festival, but gradually news of pneumonia, let them make a decision to cancel, in the tenant's perception, this is a "non-resistable factor," the landlord can be expected to make a disclaimer refund.
“当时距离过年还有十几天，按照往年的经验不可能空置。
"Ten days to go before the Chinese New Year and the experience of previous years is unlikely to be vacant.
”张靖炜感受到了对方的顾虑，直接了当给房客进行了全额退款。
Mr Zhang, sensing the other's scruples, offered his tenant a full refund.
一天天往上跳的病例数字让他隐隐不安，但似乎又离得很远。
The number of cases jumping up day by day gave him a vague uneasiness, but seemed to be far away.
为了保险起见，张靖炜当即给每个房间配备了84消毒液和酒精，并且开始给入住房客发放口罩。
To be on the safe side, Zhang immediately gave each room 84 disinfectant and alcohol, and began issuing masks to tenants.
第一例、第二例、第N例…..随着疫情蔓延，确诊数字飞涨，退订申请数也随着肺炎病例一起上涨，他的心情也变得越来越复杂。
As the epidemic spread, the number of confirmed cases skyrocketed and the number of rejections increased with the number of pneumonia cases, his mood became more and more complicated.
疫情期间收到的退订申请1月15日，张靖炜关闭了所有房间的预订。
On January 15, Zhang Jingwei closed all room reservations received during the outbreak.
已经预订的日期中，如果客人没有取消订单，就正常接待，其他房间则统一关闭。
If the guest does not cancel the order, the other rooms will be closed.
与此同时，疫情之下，大量游客开始变更行程，机票、火车票、酒店、民宿等旅游产品出现了大量的退改。
At the same time, the epidemic, a large number of tourists began to change itineraries, tickets, hotels, residential tourism products and so on a large number of withdrawal.
集中性的退订开始爆发，各大平台也迅速作出了反应。
Centralized unwinding began to erupt, and the platforms responded quickly.
1月21号，携程等OTA平台，以及爱彼迎等共享住宿平台相继启动了相关的房源订单退订政策，为符合条件的房东和房客提供免责取消保障。
On January 21, OTA platforms such as Ctrip and Episode I launched related home order cancellation policies to provide relief to eligible landlords and tenants.
仅22日当天，张靖炜的民宿就退订了17单，那是武汉全面停止交通运营的前一天。
Only on the 22nd, Zhang Jingwei's residents withdrew 17 tickets, the day before Wuhan stopped all traffic.
疫情带来的冲击，远远不止于退订。
The impact of the epidemic goes far beyond withdrawal.
租金成本、运营成本、空置期间的损失，都是摆在面前最现实的问题。
Rental costs, operating costs, and losses during periods of vacancy are the most realistic issues before us.
在持久抗疫和不断变化的政策中，钱是为数不多的能够被量化的东西。
Money is one of the few things that can be quantified in a sustained fight against epidemics and changing policies.
在采访中，张靖炜给锌财经算了一笔账：除却所有房间的空置费，单单取消订单金额，就高达11万元。
In the interview, Zhang gave Zinc Finance an account: apart from the cost of all the vacant rooms, cancellation alone amounted to 110,000 yuan.
房东受损的时候，突发的消费低潮，使得后端的共享住宿平台承压更是巨大。
When the landlord is damaged, the sudden low tide of consumption, so that the back end of the shared accommodation platform pressure is even greater.
但在这种非常时刻，不少共享住宿平台在保障客人权益的同时，开始与房东共同分担风险，缓解眼下的焦虑。
But at this very moment, many shared accommodation platforms, while protecting guests' rights and interests, are sharing the risks with the landlord to ease immediate anxiety.
共享住宿平台的“Plan B”紧迫感之下，不同的共享住宿平台对怎么帮、什么是“帮”，也有不同的注解。
With a sense of urgency, different shared accommodation platforms have different annotations about how to help and what to do.
让张靖炜在内的房东慰藉的是：在这个过程中，爱彼迎平台开通了“新冠肺炎疫情”取消渠道和“爱在行动”房东志愿计划，房东和房客可以直接在App上自助协商取消，同时不会影响房东的相关考核指标以及“超赞房东”评选资格。
Landlords such as Mr Zhang are reassured that, in the process, the Aipingying Platform has launched the "New Crown Pneumonia" channel and the "Love in Action" Landlord Volunteer Scheme, whereby landlords and tenants can cancel directly on the App self-help consultation, without affecting the landlord's relevant assessment indicators and the "super landlord" qualification.
“这对我们来说是非常重要的，在这种紧急情况下，如果平台没有及时响应，部分房东可能会利益第一，造成人口的进一步流动。
"It is very important for us that in such an emergency, if the platform does not respond in a timely manner, some landlords may be interested first, resulting in further population movements.
”张靖炜告诉锌财经。
Mr Zhang told Zinc Finance.
2月5日，爱彼迎在先前的免费退订基础上，投入7000万元专项基金，作出对房东房客延长免责取消时间、对房东经济补偿等在内的“十项承诺”。
On February 5, Episode I invested 70 million yuan in a special fund to make "ten commitments" to landlord tenants to extend the cancellation period and to provide financial compensation to landlords.
在爱彼迎发布的十项承诺中，除了给予参与到“爱在行动”房东志愿计划的房东一定的经济补偿外，也承诺未来会给到流量等资源支持，其中针对大陆地区相关的周租月租、暖心房东等相关政策也是首创。
Among the 10 commitments announced by Episode I, in addition to some financial compensation for landlords who participate in the "Love in Action" Landlord Volunteer Scheme, there is a promise of future support for resources such as traffic, including the first of a series of related weekly rent and warm-hearted landlord policies for the mainland.
在各大共享住宿平台的响应中，爱彼迎率先发声，算得上是“带节奏的人”。
In the response of the major shared accommodation platform, Aibi Yingying is the first voice, is a "rhythmic person."
爱彼迎率先发布对社区的“十项承诺”随后，小猪和途家也先后发布了相应的帮扶政策，例如给出2月份房源订单一定的经济补偿，启动民宿房源中长租计划，以及后续的流量倾斜保证等等。
After that, Piggy and Tuitao issued corresponding policies, such as giving a certain amount of financial compensation for the purchase of houses in February, launching a medium- and long-term rent plan for residential housing, and providing follow-up flow slant guarantees.
在免费退订的基础之上，其实各家的扶持政策中，所围绕的关键词：一是“免服务费”；二是“房东的后续发展”。
On the basis of free withdrawal, in fact, the various supportive policies around the keywords: first, "free service"; and second, "landlord's follow-up development."
在业务恢复到正轨之前，对于大多数房东来说，如果得不到平台的支持，可能很难渡过去，“免服务费”的举措能在某种程度上，给房东带去一定喘息空间。
Until business is back on track, it may be difficult for most landlords to get through without the support of the platform, and "service-free" initiatives can provide some respite to landlords.
具体而言，爱彼迎主要针对湖北房源订单，免除服务费至5月1日；途家免除湖北地区2月份的订单；小猪则是针对2月份全国范围的订单。
In particular, Episode II is targeting orders for Hubei Fangyuan, exempt from service charges until May 1; Tourists waive February orders in Hubei Province; and Pigs are for nationwide orders in February.
“感知不大。
"Not very perceptive.
”在三家平台上均有入驻的张靖炜，也表达了自己的看法，在他们看来，因为疫情冲击，其实2月份比较惨淡，基本没有订单。
Zhang Jingwei, who is based in each of the three platforms, also expressed his view that February was bleak because of the impact of the outbreak, with few orders.
遭遇冲击的民宿行业而对房东来说，真正兴奋的点在于后续流量的倾斜。
The impact of the residential industry and for landlords, the real excitement is the slope of the follow-up flow.
在这个期间，为顾客提供全额退款的房东，会得到爱彼迎平台上“暖心房东”的标签，疫情过后平台会针对性的提高房源的曝光量和其他方面的扶持与激励。
During this period, the landlord who offers the customer a full refund will be labeled as the "warm landlord" on the EPYING platform. After the epidemic, the platform will target to increase the exposure of housing resources and other support and incentives.
张靖炜的态度相对乐观：“以爱彼迎平台为例，如果平台提高房源的曝光量以及给予其他的一些营销激励，按照以往的经验，我的房源基本可以订满，相信两个季度就完全能够把疫情期间的损失补回来，这是最实质的帮助。
Zhang Jingwei's attitude is relatively optimistic: "If the platform, for example, to increase the exposure of housing resources and give other marketing incentives, past experience, my basic can be fully booked, I believe that the two quarters can fully recover the loss during the epidemic, which is the most substantial help.
”抓住那些变与不变根据中国文旅部数据统计，2019年春节期间，全国旅游接待总人数4.15亿人次，同比增长7.6%。
According to statistics from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the total number of people receiving tourism in 2019 reached 415 million, an increase of 7.6 percent year on year.
而今年，这部分损失，正在由上中下游的玩家一起承担。
And this year, this part of the loss, by the upper and lower reaches of the players together.
危机已经发生，平台和房东都急需一场自救。
The crisis has occurred, and both platforms and landlords are in desperate need of help.
包括爱彼迎在内的共享住宿平台的系列政策，其实不仅是疫情下的危机应对，也是其保证旅游产品的质量的举措。
The policy of sharing accommodation platform, including Episode I, is not only the response to the crisis, but also the measure to guarantee the quality of tourism products.
从短期看，这次疫情对旅游业造成了冲击，今年上半年营收跳水，亏损已经是确定的状况。
In the short term, the epidemic has had an impact on tourism, with revenues plummeting in the first half of this year, with losses already firmly in place.
但是从更长远的角度来说，参照2003后非典时代旅游市场的发展规律，加之春节诸多游客被压抑的旅游需求，疫情结束后旅游行业也会迎来新的发展契机。
But in the longer term, the tourism industry will also see new opportunities after the end of the epidemic, following the development of the tourism market in the post-2003 SARS era, coupled with the pent-up tourist demand for the Spring Festival.
2003年非典疫情结束后的第一个月，旅游行业就迎来了“报复性”的反弹，酒旅市场迎来了快速复苏。
In the first month after the SARS epidemic ended in 2003, the tourism industry experienced a "retaliatory" rebound, ushering in a rapid recovery in the wine market.
当年7月、8月各大旅游机构的业务量井喷式的增加，甚至超过了非典疫情爆发之前的水平。
In July and August of that year, the volume of business of the major tourism agencies increased dramatically, even exceeding the level before the outbreak of SARS.
对于旅游业来说，虽然容易受外部大环境的影响，但其核心的市场需求一直都在，在这个时期，有需求的人群反而有所增长。
For tourism, although vulnerable to the external environment, but its core market demand has been, during this period, the number of people in need has increased.
非典过后，旅游人数反而逆势增长对于共享住宿平台来说，把握好这个时机，保证旅游产品的质量和反应效率，保证房东未来发展，显得尤为重要。
After SARS, the number of tourists on the contrary growth for the shared accommodation platform, to seize this opportunity, to ensure the quality of tourism products and response efficiency, to ensure the future development of landlords is particularly important.
考虑到市场回暖的周期，除却服务费，对于投资较大，位置环境较好的房源，可以暂时考虑做周租长租。
Taking into account the market warming cycle, in addition to service charges, for larger investment, the location of better housing sources, may temporarily consider doing a long lease.
2月8日，爱彼迎已经上线了第一期周租月租活动，暖心房东将获得流量支持。
Feb. 8, love to Yingying has been on line the first monthly rental activities, warm heart landlord will receive flow support.
据消息人士称，爱彼迎未来会继续深化该活动，包括减免平台服务费。
According to the source, Episode will continue to deepen the campaign in the future, including waiver of platform fees.
外部环境的变化需要行业中的人敏锐察觉，但不变的是企业内部的特性。
The change of external environment needs the perceptive ability of the people in the industry, but it is the internal characteristics of the enterprise that is invariable.
对于爱彼迎来说，疫情是一个变量，不变的是爱彼迎的社区精神。
For Aibi ushered in, the epidemic is a variable, unchanged is the spirit of the community.
长期关注这家共享住宿巨头的人能够感受到，爱彼迎在文化层面的构建，让平台和房东两者的联系变得紧密，更有温度。
Those who have followed the shared accommodation giant for a long time can feel the cultural construction of Episode, making the connection between the platform and the landlord closer and hotter.
在疫情期间，爱彼迎房东Kenny在多个社交平台发出倡议信，自发的联合爱彼迎武汉社区房东，为医护人员提供免费住宿。
During the epidemic, Ed Yingying landlord Kenny sent letters of initiative from various social platforms, and spontaneously joined forces with the landlords of the Wuhan community to provide free accommodation for medical staff.
在清迈做民宿生意的李英，载着从爱心人士处拿到的3000个一次性医用口罩和300副医用手套，花了3天的时间，去支援普洱市思茅区人民医院。
Li Ying, who runs a residential business in Chiang Mai, spent three days supporting the Simao People's Hospital in Pu'er city, carrying 3,000 disposable medical masks and 300 pairs of medical gloves from the Loving Scholars.
爱彼迎房东李英将防护物资送到医院背负着亏损压力的张靖炜，也在春节期间将房子提供给了西安市医护人员，并且与大学同学共同集资，向武汉协和医院捐赠了4000个口罩。
Zhang Jingwei, who owns the property and carries it to the hospital under pressure of loss, also gave it to hospital staff during the Spring Festival and raised money with university students, donating 4,000 masks to Wuhan Concord Hospital.
高凝聚力，有温度的社区也是爱彼迎独特文化价值的体现。
High cohesion and warm neighborhoods are also a reflection of the unique cultural values that Episode I welcomes.
等待春天在锌财经获得的一封爱彼迎内部信中，中国总裁彭韬提到：在中国市场，爱彼迎将更多的资源投入到了平台能力的建设上，这也使得面对突如其来的变化之时，可以更加灵活的分配资源，服务于眼前的必选项。
Awaiting an internal letter from Zinc Finance in the spring, Mr Peng Tao, China's president, said: In the Chinese market, EPING is devoting more resources to building the platform's capabilities, which allows it to allocate resources more flexibly to meet immediate needs in the face of sudden changes.
其次，作为一家业务遍布全球的公司，爱彼迎独特的全球优势也使得组织的抗风险能力更加强大，韧性更强。
Second, as a company with global operations, Episode's unique global strengths also make the organization more risk-resistant and resilient.
在这段特殊的时期，平台开始专注于修炼内功，提升团队的基本功和组织的战斗力，更好的转危为机。
In this special period, the platform began to focus on the training of internal work, improve the basic skills of the team and the organization of combat effectiveness, better turn crisis.
爱彼迎中国总裁彭韬发布的内部信修炼内功的不止是平台，还有房东们。
It is not only the platform but also the landlords who practice their inner skills.
如今在爱彼迎的民宿社区中，房东讨论最多的是话题，就是自救。
Nowadays, in the residential community of Episode I, the topic most discussed by landlords is self-help.
在房东社区中，由于资金紧张，已经有一部分房东开始着手转让；但更多的从业者，仍在在寻求危机中可能的机会，为疫情过后的复苏做准备。
In the landlord community, some landlords have begun to transfer because of funding constraints; but many more are still looking for possible opportunities in the crisis to prepare for recovery from the epidemic.
在张靖炜看来，有人退就有人进，风险和机会是并存的，这段时间如果运营得好，依然可以做到盈亏平衡。
In Zhang's view, some people retire, risks and opportunities are co-existing, this time if the operation is well, can still achieve a profit and loss balance.
与此同时，在爱彼迎此前发布的十项承诺中，专门针对疫期的房东培训课程也开始落地，已经正式上线爱彼迎房东学院的渠道当中，对于房东最关注的领域，给出指导方案或技巧。
Meanwhile, out of the 10 commitments previously announced by Episode, a Landlord Training Course specifically for the Epidemic period has begun to arrive, and has been formally launched on-line at the Landlord College, offering guidance programs or techniques on the areas of greatest concern to landlords.
值得注意的是，目前已经上线的课程，都是来自房东的自愿分享。
It is worth noting that the courses currently available on line are shared voluntarily by landlords.
爱彼迎房东学院课程“一开始的时候也很担心，但是到现在觉得应该行动起来，利用这段时间，把房源的运营精细梳理，根基打扎实，修好内功。
Episode I was also worried at first, but now he feels the need to take advantage of this time to carve out the operation of the property, lay a solid foundation and repair the internal work.
”爱彼迎房东木木对短暂蓄力之后的行业前景仍然乐观。
Mr Aibi, the landlady, remains upbeat about the industry's prospects after a brief stint.
对于房东来说，平台的帮扶是一部分。
For the landlord, the platform is part of the support.
现在的沉寂期，更是很好的学习和反思的时间，什么是好看的房源、民宿应该如何设计、好的色彩搭配，空间结构是怎样的，这是民宿人需要不断提升，吸取经验的点。
Now the quiet period, is a good time for study and reflection, what is a good-looking housing resources, residential should be designed, good color matching, space structure is what, this is residential people need to constantly upgrade, learn from the point.
新冠肺炎疫情下，房东该如何逆境生长？“没有一个冬天不会过去，没有一个春天不会来临。
New Crown Pneumonia, how should landlords grow up? "No winter will pass, no spring will not come.
我相信疫情过后，共享住宿和旅游业都会快速恢复和反弹。
I believe that after the outbreak, shared accommodation and tourism will recover quickly and rebound.
熬过这段艰难时期，一定会迎来更好的春天。
A better spring is sure to come through this difficult period.
”爱彼迎超赞房东康健在他的分享中最后这样总结到。
"Episode one of the landlords, Kang Jian, concluded in his sharing.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逆风之下，共享住宿平台与房东的向阳而生。
Under the contrary wind, the shared accommodation platform and the landlord Xiangyang.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "逆风之下，共享住宿平台与房东的向阳而生";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with landlord Xiangyang.
var msg_desc = "等待城市复苏的房东们。
var msg _ desc = & quot; landlords waiting for urban renewal.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
