中小企业保卫战：战“疫”之下，认栽还是自救？。
Small and medium-sized enterprise defense war: under the "epidemic," recognize or self-help?
何星莹。
He Xingying.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/何星莹编辑/单一疫情吸引了绝大部分视线，但在公众关注之外，余波还在继续。
Wen / He Xingying Editing / Single Epidemic attracted most of the attention, but the aftershocks continued beyond the public's attention.
受疫情影响，消费者纷纷取消春节期间的出行和聚餐计划，旅游业和餐饮业首当其冲，不少从业者苦中作乐调侃自己“暂时被官宣失业”。
Affected by the epidemic, consumers canceled travel and dinner programs during the Spring Festival, tourism and catering industry led the way, many workers ridiculed themselves as "temporarily declared unemployed."
年前囤积的物资浪费，停工停产造成订单损失，以及租金和工资的压力，都是悬在头顶的几把利剑。
The waste of supplies accumulated a few years ago, the loss of orders as a result of the shutdown, and the pressure on rents and wages are some of the sharp swords hanging overhead.
复工日即将到来，但这次疫情的影响却无法在短期内消弭。
The resumption of work is imminent, but the impact of the epidemic cannot be averted in the short term.
长远来看，一、二、三产业无不遭池鱼之殃。
In the long run, all three industries will suffer.
中欧众创平台的一份调查结果显示，受疫情影响，如果没有政府和银行支持，85.01%的企业维持不了3个月生存；如果疫情持续半年以上，90%的企业将难以为继。
According to the findings of a Central European crowdsource platform, 85.01 per cent of businesses will not survive for three months without government and bank support, and 90 per cent will not survive if the epidemic continues for more than six months.
中小企业哀鸿遍野，正常的产业链节奏被打乱，企业老板的焦虑更难以掩盖：担忧疫情以外，还需忧虑自己的企业是否已到生死存亡时刻。
Small and medium-sized enterprises across the field, the rhythm of the normal industrial chain was disrupted, the anxiety of business owners more difficult to hide: worry about the epidemic, but also worry about whether their enterprises are at the moment of survival.
他们或乐观接受，或平静自救，或绝望寻不到出路，但考虑的大多是：我该如何多扛一会儿？并不是全然没有好消息。
They accept optimistically, or calm themselves, or are desperate to find a way out, but mostly consider: How can I carry it a little longer? Not entirely without good news.
2月1日，中央五部门联合发文，将加大对疫情防控相关领域的信贷支持力度，不得对受影响较大的行业盲目抽贷、断贷、压贷。
On February 1, the five central government departments jointly issued a letter in which they will increase their credit support in areas related to epidemic prevention and control.
除此之外，浙江、山东、黑龙江等地已经出台相关政策支持中小企业渡难关。
In addition, Zhejiang, Shandong, Heilongjiang and other places have introduced relevant policies to support small and medium-sized enterprises transition difficulties.
以下为四位企业主在疫情期间的亲身经历，由锌财经采访编辑。
The following is the personal experience of four business owners during the epidemic, interviewed by Zinc Finance.
文旅行业：损失最惨重，捐款最积极2月3日中海创文化产业发展有限公司董事长 徐鹏物资、人员，加上前期撒出去、收不回来的广告费，直接经济损失约有1200万。
Xu Peng, chairman of Zhonghai Chuang Cultural Industries Development Co., Ltd., added to the advertising expenses sent out in the previous period, the direct economic losses are about 12 million.
腊月二十三一期竣工，腊月二十八试营业，正月初一停业。
Twenty-three months to complete the first part of December 28 trial business, the first day of the first month closed.
从创业开始，我做的就是文旅的活动、策划，如今在成都、武汉、重庆、香港都有文旅项目和公司。
From the start-up, I do is the activities of the cultural brigade, planning, now in Chengdu, Wuhan, Chongqing, Hong Kong have cultural tourism projects and companies.
今年，响应国家乡村振兴的号召，公司在北方做了一个人文小镇的项目。
This year, in response to the country's call for rural renewal, the company did a project in the north of the town of humanities.
小镇今年5月份就开始打地基，本来想赶国庆档，但是北方环保天气不能施工，实在赶不上，就加班加点想要收割今年的春节档，文旅项目一般就是过年开业最好，人又多，东西又齐全。
We have been working overtime to harvest the Spring Festival holiday this year. We usually have the best opening day of the Lunar New Year, with lots of people and things to do.
这个小镇总投资约几个亿，一期4000万，占地几百亩，这样规模的一个项目正常施工需要七、八个月。
With a total investment of several hundred million dollars, a 40 million phase covering hundreds of acres, it would take seven to eight months for a project of this size to run normally.
竣工是在腊月二十三，扣除不能施工的阶段，项目建设只花了四个月。
Completion was in Laayoune 23, after deduction of the non-construction phase, the project took only four months.
时间节省了差不多一半，背后的代价是钱。
Time is saved by almost half. The price behind it is money.
在当地，我们原原本本还原了一个重庆小镇，有重庆火锅、重庆江湖菜，计划还有足浴、住宿等等。
In the area, we have restored a small town in Chongqing with Chongqing hotpot, Chongqing Jianghu cuisine, plans to have foot bath, accommodation and so on.
正式开业前，火锅店的春节预定就已经过百万，最后被迫全部取消。
Before the official opening, the hotpot shop's Spring Festival has been booked over a million, and was finally forced to cancel all.
图源网络腊月二十八，小镇开始试营业，我还在国外旅游，每天都有好消息报告上来。
Chart source network month 28, small town began trial operation, I still travel abroad, every day have good news to report.
得知疫情之后，本来打算初八过去看看，但是大年初一突然告诉我要全部封闭，我就蒙了。
After learning of the outbreak, originally intended to go over to see the eighth, but the first day of the New Year told me to completely close, I was blindfolded.
由于我们当时提前准备了菜品、年货、生鲜，包括加班的一百多个工人是重庆调过去的，全部都是三倍工资并且提前付款了。
As we prepared the dishes, new year goods, fresh, including overtime, more than 100 workers were transferred from Chongqing, all triple wages and pay in advance.
停业之后，大年初一就从重庆派车去把这些加班的员工给拉了回来，飞机、高铁都不敢让他们坐。
After the suspension, from Chongqing on the first day of the car to these overtime to pull back, the plane, high-speed rail did not dare to let them sit.
提前准备的物料能放冻库就放冻库，那些生鲜，那些鱼、海鲜、龙虾就完蛋了。
Pre-prepared materials can be stored in the freezer on the freezer, those fresh, those fish, seafood, lobster will be destroyed.
后来我们就去附近的村里用大喇叭宣传、给点钱就卖，谁家能用，谁就拿。
Later, we went to the nearby village with a loudspeaker to advertise, to give a little money to sell, who can use, who took.
乡村振兴本来就是农村的荒地，我去哪找人？我送谁敢收？那个村里只有一两百人，物资很多都烂了，绝大多数都当垃圾处理了。
Village revitalization is originally the wasteland of the countryside, where can I find someone? Who can I take it? There are only one or two hundred people in that village.
图源网络物资、人员，加上前期撒出去、收不回来的广告费，直接经济损失约有1200万。
Map source network material, personnel, plus the early release, not to collect advertising expenses, direct economic losses of about 12 million.
突然停业，一定会有坏账成分，我们是运营方，同时这一个小生态圈也全部瘫痪了。
A sudden shutdown is bound to have a bad debt component, we are the operator, and this small ecological circle is completely paralyzed.
举个例子，小镇里有固定的演出活动，现在包括活动公司，以及下游的广告制作公司、舞台搭建公司、运输公司全部喊停。
For example, there are regular performances in the town, which now include campaign companies, as well as downstream advertising production companies, stage construction companies, and transportation companies.
再往下游说个最简单的，拾荒的老太太原来卖四个瓶子卖一块钱，现在都捡不到瓶子。
Downstream, the simplest thing, the old scavenger used to sell four bottles for a dollar, and now she can't find them.
虽说倒霉，但我心态挺好，捐了三万现金和五万多的医疗物资，还牵头组织了两场募捐，为重庆的定点医院筹款两笔，共计近二十万元。
Despite my bad luck, I am in a good mood, donating 30,000 cash and more than 50,000 medical supplies. I also took the lead in organizing two fund-raising campaigns for two designated hospitals in Chongqing, totaling nearly 200,000 yuan.
我们做生意的，只要停下来就很难受，给自己找点事干。
When we do business, it's hard to stop and find something for ourselves.
我们这个行业，受损失最惨重，捐款捐得最积极，大家都希望赶紧过去。
Our industry, which has suffered the most, has contributed the most, and we all hope to pass quickly.
现在是不开门，是稍亏损一点，我担心的是疫情控制住了，人的心理什么时候能恢复。
Now is not open, is a little loss, I worry about the epidemic under control, people's psychological recovery when.
以后开了业，短期内谁还敢出来吃饭、聚众旅游？前期损失我能算，但是后期损失无法估计。
In the future, who dare to eat out, gather together to travel in the short term? I can calculate the early losses, but the late losses can not be estimated.
图源网络大的灾难来临都会毁掉一批行业，再起来一批。
Big disaster of graph source network will destroy a batch of industry, rise up again a batch.
但是我觉得文旅虽然今年会很难熬，但一定会起来。
But I think the cultural brigade will be very difficult this year, but will certainly get up.
文旅是体验式的，消费心理如果恢复了，压抑了这么久，爆发性增长也很快。
Cultural travel is experiential, consumer psychology if restored, suppressed for so long, explosive growth is also very fast.
就看今年能不能扛得住了，很多同行基本上都是贷款发工资。
Just to see if this year can bear, many colleagues are basically loans to pay wages.
我们这个行业的痛苦点在于，我们是跟客流打交道的，这一点，政府出政策我们也不太好运用。
The pain in our industry is that we deal with the crowd, and that's something we can't easily use in government policy.
今年先撑一撑，上不负资本方，下不负供应商。
This year to support a brace, do not meet the capital side, under the supplier.
开不了门，一直花钱耗在这里也不行，日子得过，今年下半年我可能考虑投资教育作为备选。
I can't open the door, I can't spend money here all the time, and I might consider investing in education as an alternative in the second half of this year.
外贸纺织业：雪上加霜2月1日广东某外贸工厂老板林洁“在世卫组织宣布之前，我思考的是如何熬过2020；在他宣布之后，我思考的是如何遣散工人，如何安顿好年纪大的师傅，如何卖掉工厂设备……”四年前，我从原来的工作辞职，接手了我母亲经营了将近二十年的服装生产工厂，厂里有四五十个工人，七十多台机器，在当地算是中等偏上的规模。
"Before the WHO announced it, I was thinking about how to get through 2020." Four years ago, I resigned from my old job to take over my mother's garment factory, which had 40 or 50 workers and more than 70 machines, and was considered above average locally.
我们主营业务是外单，外贸近几年已经是非常难做了。
Our main business is external orders, foreign trade in recent years has been very difficult to do.
我刚接手那一年，工厂每个月可以盈利，但这几年仅仅能跑开支。
I just took over that year and the factory was profitable every month, but only for a few years.
去年开始贸易战，很多北美的客户已经不会再找我们来下订单了。
Since the trade war began last year, many customers in North America have stopped looking for us to place orders.
如果我们一件衣服报10块钱的加工费，他们可能会选择越南、泰国、柬埔寨这些地方。
If we paid $10 for a piece of clothing, they might choose places like Vietnam, Thailand and Cambodia.
同样的报价，但是关税完全是不一样的。
The same quote, but the tariffs are totally different.
图源网络整个服装行业的春节安排是：年前不断地在赶货，把实体内单的活全出完了。
Figure source network of the entire clothing industry Spring Festival arrangement is: the year before in a continuous rush of goods, the entity of the single work finished.
外单的货是年后交的，初七或初八就正式开工，外省的工人们会在初十回来。
The outside order of goods is handed in after the year, the seventh or eighth day of the official start, provincial workers will come back in the 10th.
当第二次推迟上班，以及世卫组织发文之后，我再次感受到了事情的严重性。
When I put off work for the second time, and after the WHO sent a message, I felt the seriousness of the situation again.
他们官方的说法是“不建议限制贸易和人员流动”。
Their official line is that "restrictions on trade and movement of people are not recommended."
这是一种很委婉的说法，可以从其他国家陆陆续续停止来中国的航线侧面看出他们的态度：我们拒绝。
This is a euphemism that can be seen in the fact that other countries have gradually stopped coming to China: we refuse.
贸易也一样，如果不是必需品，他们可以去别的地方采购、加工。
The same is true of trade. If it is not a necessity, they can go elsewhere to purchase and process it.
我有三个客户，分别是英国、韩国、南非的，本来初十会带上样版飞过来下订单，来探讨一下款式和价格。
I have three customers, the United Kingdom, South Korea, South Africa, the original 10 will fly with a sample of the order, to explore the style and price.
但他们现在已经取消了行程，告诉我“希望你们的疫情赶紧过去”。
But they have now cancelled the trip and told me "I hope your epidemic is over soon."
南非的订单量非常大，一次订单量就是20万件，而且结货款非常守信用，30%的订金，中间40%的货款，发完货之后再结30%，很少有这么好的客户。
South Africa has a very large order volume of 200,000 pieces, and the settlement is very trustworthy, 30% deposit, the middle 40% of the purchase price, after the delivery of goods and then 30%, rarely so good customers.
疫情对纺织业的影响是一个骨牌效应。
The effect of the epidemic on textiles is a domino effect.
1.影响资金链我年前有一个做童装的客户，光在我们一间工厂就备了300万的货。
Influencing the Money Chain One year ago I had a customer who made children's clothes. I had three million items in one of our factories alone.
过年的那段时间，很多物流都停了，很多人愿意带孩子上街逛街，这批货是他备过年期间的货。
During the Spring Festival, many logistics stopped, and many people would like to take their children shopping, this is the goods he prepared for the New Year.
但过年期间人都没有一个，等于他这300万直接变成库存。
But during the Chinese New Year, no one, equal to his 3 million directly into inventory.
库存不是钱，库存就是一堆废纸。
Inventory is not money, inventory is a pile of waste paper.
因为没有现金回流，他没办法给我结加工费，但我给我的工人已经是结了钱，才让他们回去的。
He couldn't pay me the processing fee because there was no cash flow back, but I had already paid my workers to go back.
但我还要交房租，还要付工资，设备还在折旧。
But I have to pay the rent, the salary, and the equipment is still being depreciated.
2.固定开支我算了一下，工厂每停一天固定开支四万块钱，包括仓库费用、厂租、固定的人工，以及设备折旧。
Fixed ExpensesI calculated that for every day that the factory stopped, it had a fixed expenditure of 40,000 yuan, including warehouse expenses, factory rent, fixed labor, and depreciation of equipment.
但法定假期与正式复工期间的工资怎么结算，我也还没想好。
But I still haven't decided how to settle the salary between the statutory holiday and the official return to work.
我租了八百多平的工厂场地，租金每个月将近五万。
I have rented over 800 square meters of factory space, the rent of which is close to fifty thousand a month.
看到网上很多减免租金倡议的链接，我转发给工厂房东看，希望能适当减免一点押金。
Seeing many links to rent relief initiatives on the Internet, I forwarded them to factory landlords in the hope of securing a modest deposit reduction.
他说：不行，也不关我的事。
He said, No, it's none of my business.
后来又找了他几次，他没再接我电话了，微信回我说：减不了，银行没有减我贷款，我也不可能给你减。
He didn't answer my phone call again. He wrote back to me and said, 'No way, the bank hasn't reduced my loan, and I can't give you any less.
当然我能理解，毕竟他也是私人业主，而且事关自己利益，抵抗风险能力也不像大集团一样强。
I understand, of course, that he, too, is a private owner, has a self-interest, and is not as risk-averse as the big groups.
3.复工难国家说要2月10日之后复工，我打遍了工厂所有人的电话，告诉他们可能要停工到3月份了。
3. After the resumption of work, which the country said it would resume after 10 February, I called all the factory owners and told them that work might be suspended until March.
当地做服装纺织业的，工人很多都是江西、湖南、湖北，他们回到了老家之后封路了，可能3月份才能出行。
The local garment textile industry, many workers are Jiangxi, Hunan, Hubei, they returned to their hometown sealed the road, may not be able to travel in March.
去年12月10日我们停止接单了，并且跟客户表明所有出口订单只能在2月交，因为要迎接春节消费假期。
We stopped receiving orders on December 10 last year and made it clear to our customers that all export orders would be placed only in February as we prepared for the Spring Festival holiday.
在第二次推迟春节假期以及世卫组织发文前，客户来联系我时，我回复说：“2月份依然可以交出第一批订单。
When I was contacted by clients before the second postponement of the Spring Festival and before the WHO sent me a message, I replied: "The first orders can still be placed in February.
”但现在完全无法开展。
But it is now completely impossible.
我打算今天给每一个外单客户重新写了邮件，不知道他们会不会追诉我的赔偿。
I'm going to e-mail every single customer today and wonder if they will sue me for damages.
我想，在这个行业，大部分都是理解你，但没办法等你。
I think, in this industry, most are understand you, but can not wait for you.
因为换季换得很快，我没办法把服装做出来，他们就会把订单移到柬埔寨、老挝，或者泰国。
Since I can't make the clothes out of the changing seasons quickly, they will move their orders to Cambodia, Laos, or Thailand.
不知道需要多久，工厂才能恢复原来的水平。
I don't know how long it will take for the factory to regain its former level.
首先，我的工人要3月才能回来，而且我需要去布行采购原材料，如果布行有存货我可以直接去拖，如果客户所需的布料需要订做，还涉及到布行的产能能不能跟上。
First of all, my workers won't be back until March, and I need to go to the distribution line to buy the raw materials, and if so, I can tow them directly.
布行的产能没跟上来，那就算我的工人回来了，我的机器开了，那我做什么？很多工厂在做电商的订单，或者转型做直播，影响不会太大，但对我来说，做直播会影响到我的实体订单客户，外贸业务占了70%，影响是非常大的。
If the production capacity of the distribution line fails to catch up, then what will I do if my workers come back and my machines open? Many factories are placing orders from electrical companies or switching to live TV, but for me, live broadcasting will affect my physical order customers, 70% of the foreign trade business, the impact is very large.
图源网络4.如何扛下去？我考虑过节约成本，但实业很难，如果裁员可能面临员工不够、无法按时交货的问题。
I've thought about saving money, but the industry is hard, and if you lay off people you may not have enough people to deliver on time.
虽然有些产能可以机器代替，但是在服装上，“无人车间”现在并没有办法普遍。
While some production capacity can be replaced by machines, "no one shop" is now common in clothing.
我母亲当年也经历过非典，原来规模有八十多个人，可以接羽绒服订单，但在那之后，员工变成了二十多个，无法做流水线，只能接小型的加工。
My mother, who also experienced SARS, used to have more than 80 people to take orders for down clothes, but since then, the staff has become more than 20, unable to do assembly lines, can only take small-scale processing.
慢慢发展了十几年才发展到了如今的五十多人。
It took more than ten years to develop into more than fifty people today.
但人生有几个十几年？我有个客户，他在广州十三行的租金是25万一个月，他说我可能撑不下去了，但你的加工费我会分期给你。
I have a client who rents in Guangzhou for 25, 000 lines for a month, and he says I may not be able to make it, but I'll pay you in installments.
这意味着他在考虑解散，经过这件事情，真的只有非常有实力的人才能扛过这一关，我现在也在考虑要不要解散。
It means he's thinking about dissolution, and after that, only a really strong person can carry it through, and I'm thinking about it now.
图源网络龙头撑不下去了，银行会松一下贷款，中小企业能拿资质去贷款，我这种干工厂的，真的很难享受到一些政策。
Figure source network leader can not sustain, the bank will relax the loan, small and medium-sized enterprises can be qualified to borrow, I dry factory, really hard to enjoy some policies.
我如果扛不住了，我的工人怎么办？如果我卖掉工厂，大不了就当作赔了一百万，回公司去上班。
If I can't carry it, what about my workmen? If I sell my factory, I'll lose a million dollars and go back to work.
但是有几个老工人，从跟着我妈到跟着我，产能已经很低了，在别的厂里只能当零工，混个温饱。
But a few of the older workers, from following my mother to following me, were already low-capacity, working part-time in other factories and getting enough to eat and drink.
在我这里，他们还能做一下尾补和后勤，工厂效益特别好时每个月也能拿两万多。
In my case, they can do tailoring and logistics, when the factory is particularly profitable, can take more than 20, 000 a month.
我解散了他们怎么办？已经没有服装厂可以接纳他们了。
What do I do if I dissolve them? There's no clothing factory to take them in.
酒店民宿：现金流断了也得撑2月1日余丰里民宿创始人 金勰疫情对于酒店民宿行业，最直接影响了春节这个旺季，不存在订单这个问题，就直接关门。
cash flow broken also have to support Feb. 1 Yu Fengli residential founder Jin Xie epidemic for the hotel residential industry, the most direct impact of the Spring Festival this season, there is no order this issue, directly closed.
2016年的时候，市场上还比较讲情怀，民宿行业也比较热，我就进入了这个行业。
In 2016, the market is still more affectionate, residential industry is also relatively hot, I entered the industry.
我是台州人，附近有个“台州府城”景区，我们响应景区的号召，在这里打造一个高端民宿“余丰里”，把书店和民宿组合经营，作为景区的高端配套。
I am Taizhou people, there is a nearby "Taizhou Fucheng" scenic spot, we respond to the call of the scenic area, to create a high-end residential "Yufeng Li", bookstore and residential combination of operation, as the high-end scenic area.
光情怀讲故事吸引不了客人，还得有自身独特的东西以及过硬的品质，所以我们找个一个百年的四合院，然后还有四栋60年代的仓库，把这一个老的历史建筑区进行改造。
Light tells the story not to attract guests, also has its own unique things and excellent quality, so we find a century-old quadrangle, and then there are four 1960s warehouses, this old historic building area to be renovated.
受访者提供耗资两千万的装修费，耗时三年多的时间精雕细琢，2019年的8月初“余丰里”终于准备进入试营业状态，谁知道几天后，遭遇了利奇马台风，损失严重。
After spending more than three years polishing the 20 million-dollar renovation fee, Yu Fengli was finally ready for a test run in early August 2019. Who knows what happened a few days later, when Typhoon Lichma caused serious damage.
以前做为直播记者来报道台风，没想到后来作为受灾者接受原先同事的采访。
Previously as a live reporter to report the typhoon, did not expect to be the victims of the former colleagues of the interview.
虽然民宿的地势高，但四合院室内也被淹了半米有余，后勤仓库、动力柜、配电箱被淹，电气设备基本报废，书籍家具受损严重，光书的损失就有三十几万，总的损失近百万。
Although residential buildings are high-lying, the courtyard houses are more than half a metre flooded, logistics depots, power cabinets and distribution boxes flooded, electrical equipment almost written off and books and furniture badly damaged, resulting in a loss of over 300,000 light books and a total loss of nearly one million dollars.
被淹了以后我们又花了小半年的时间开始重新清理、修复，并且在今年年初的时候拿到了各种许可证，准备正式营业了。
It took us less than half a year to clean it up, repair it, and get all the permits for it to open early this year.
受访者提供春节前，原先在线上订单就已经有近十万。
The respondents had placed nearly 100,000 online orders before the Spring Festival.
一开始大家还是观望的状态，还来咨询，大部分人的出行欲望还是比较强的，再三考虑决定继续出行。
At first we still wait and see the state, but also to consult, most people's desire to travel or relatively strong, repeatedly consider the decision to continue to travel.
但是在除夕和初一，突然所有的订单都退掉了。
But on New Year's Eve and the first day of the month, all orders were suddenly returned.
本来以为只是人流量会有部分减少，没有想到会是直接停业的状态。
It was thought that there would be only a partial reduction in traffic, and it was not expected to be a direct shutdown.
但看到疫情严重性的时候，我们也主动打电话给没退的客户，要求他退掉，然后给员工放假。
But when we saw the severity of the outbreak, we also volunteered to call the unreturned customer and ask him to return it and give the employee a holiday.
得知要停业后，我们也有一丝犹豫。
We were hesitant to go out of business.
我们弄了这么久，经历了这么多磨难坎坷，终于能开门迎客，但是现在面临疫情，我们一定要配合各项工作，不能存在侥幸心理。
We have been through so many trials and tribulations for so long that we can finally open our doors to visitors. However, in the face of the epidemic, we must cooperate with all our efforts and take what we need.
疫情早日结束，我们才能重振旗鼓。
An early end to the epidemic will get us back on track.
一来一去，员工工资加上租金，春节期间估计损失几十万吧，也没心情去细算，都在关心疫情。
Come and go, staff wages plus rent, Spring Festival estimated loss of hundreds of thousands of bar, also not in the mood to calculate, are concerned about the epidemic.
经历过两次“黑天鹅”，但我们现在心态还比较稳定，疫情得到控制并且结束是早晚的问题，这个行业也是靠长期的。
We have had two "black swans," but we are still in a stable state of mind. It is only a matter of time before the outbreak is brought under control and the industry is long-term.
而且在经历台风的时候，当地政府和银行给了我们比较大的扶持，比如部分房租的免租，以及当地农商行主动给了我们信贷支持，基准利率，当天到账。
And in times of typhoons, local governments and banks gave us more support, such as rent-free portions of rent, and local farming firms offered us credit support, benchmark interest rates, and the day of reckoning.
疫情对于酒店民宿行业，最直接影响了春节这个旺季，不存在营业额高低的问题，而是没有任何收入。
The epidemic situation of the hotel residential industry, the most direct impact of the Spring Festival season, there is no turnover, but no income.
从长期的影响来说，疫情的结束到底需要多少时间、旅游市场什么时候恢复，谁都没个准。
In terms of long-term impact, no one knows exactly how long it will take for the epidemic to end and when the tourism market will recover.
但酒店又是一个持续投入、重资产的行业，不可能把员工全都放掉，只能靠自己硬撑。
But the hotel is a continuous investment, heavy assets industry, it is impossible to let go of all the staff, can only rely on their own.
图源网络我在杭州也有几家在西湖边的民宿，那边的房租已经跟钱江新城一线写字楼的房租几乎是持平，而且水电、员工等费用支出更高，而且民宿市场一直在走下坡。
I also have a few residences in Hangzhou near the West Lake, where rents are almost the same as those for the first-tier offices in Qianjiang New Town, with higher expenses for utilities, staff and the residential market has been going downhill.
如果没有和房东沟通好，接下来经营压力非常大，甚至直接倒闭都是有可能。
If you do not communicate well with the landlord, the next operating pressure is very large, even direct closure is possible.
杭州的民宿协会已经给房东发倡议信，也希望有相关部门或者协会出面沟通，让房东能降租或者部分免租。
The residential association in Hangzhou has sent a letter of initiative to landlords, and also hopes that relevant departments or associations will come forward to communicate so that landlords can reduce or partially rent-free.
餐饮行业：救己与救他2月3日质馆咖啡创始人 郑松茂本来2月份就要开新的店，现在可能会影响。
Catering industry: Save oneself and save him Feb. 3 Coffee maker Zheng Sonmao was due to open a new store in February and could now be affected.
不过我没有那么急。
But I'm not in such a hurry.
面对顺境跟逆境我们都是要务实地去面对，尽快渡过疫情这个难关才是终点。
In the face of prosperity and adversity we must face pragmatic, as soon as possible to overcome the epidemic is the end of the crisis.
多年以前，我从台北来到上海，之后创办了质馆。
Many years ago, I came to Shanghai from Taipei, where I founded the Hostages Museum.
在质馆成立后的六个春节里，我们都是正常营业的。
In the six Spring Festival after the establishment of the Museum, we are normal business.
最大的店已经开了5年，有三层楼，还有室外的座位，通常节假日都是爆满的，最小的店就是才9平米。
The largest has been open for five years, with three floors and outdoor seating, and is usually packed for holidays. The smallest store is just nine square meters.
疫情最大的影响就是咖啡馆歇业，暂时就不开了，它根本就没有数字，是零。
The greatest impact of the epidemic is the closure of the cafe, temporarily closed, it has no number at all, it is zero.
部分店面被减免了每个月的广告费、推广费、物业费，但比例很低，因为90%以上还是租金，目前好像没有减。
Some stores have been reduced monthly advertising, promotion fees, property costs, but the proportion is very low, because more than 90% is still rent, does not seem to have decreased.
这几天，西贝、外婆家的老板都接受了一些采访，贾国龙本来以为现金存量很高，但没想到也受这一波的影响，抵挡不了超过三个月。
Over the past few days, the boss of Xibei and grandma's family have been interviewed, Jia Guolong thought the cash stock was high, but did not expect to be affected by this wave, can not withstand more than three months.
质馆现在的规模没有像他们那么大，所以压力也不会那么大。
The plasma is not as big as they are now, so the pressure is not that great.
图源网络这是我们经营者必须学习的一课：风险随时会来，你必须有准备。
Source Network This is a lesson that we operators must learn: risk comes at any time, and you must be prepared.
本来2月份就要开新的店，现在可能会影响。
A new store was due to open in February and could now be affected.
不过我没有那么急，现在开的店还在在积累自己团队的经验，还没开始做复制。
But I'm not in such a hurry. The stores I open are still accumulating their own team experience and haven't begun to replicate.
我在1月16号就回台北了，是在微信上有顾客群得知国内的疫情的，但是我对疫情相对比较乐观。
I went back to Taipei on January 16. There were customers who knew about the situation in China, but I was relatively optimistic about the outbreak.
很不幸疫情发生在我们国家，但是我们也很有幸能比其他国家更高效率地处理这个难题。
Unfortunately, the epidemic is taking place in my country, but we are also fortunate to be able to deal with this problem more efficiently than other countries.
不客气地说，我们团队里的小伙伴们，他们对医护人员的很善良，给上海各医院送了共几百杯咖啡，上面写了“上海加油、肺炎必败”等话语，还有门店把店里的百余包挂耳库存都送上，都让我觉得很热心。
To put it mildly, our team members, who were so kind to the medical staff, sent hundreds of cups of coffee to hospitals in Shanghai, saying, "Come on, Pneumonia Must Fail in Shanghai," and I was enthusiastic about the store's hundred-odd bags of earrings.
我们现在的心结不在“损失”上面，作为一个企业的经营者，我觉得我们最基本、最重要的训练就是，面对顺境和逆境都要务实地去面对，尽快渡过疫情难关才是终点。
As a business operator, I think our most basic and important training is to face up to both good times and bad times pragmatically. It is the end of the epidemic as soon as possible.
*应受访者要求，文中林洁为化名。
* At the request of interviewees, Lin Jie is an alias.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中小企业保卫战：战“疫”之下，认栽还是自救？。
Small and medium-sized enterprise defense war: under the "epidemic," recognize or self-help?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "中小企业保卫战：战“疫”之下，认栽还是自救？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情的影响何时消弭？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; When did the epidemic's impact eliminate?;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
