谁来守护武汉人的饭桌。
Who will guard the Wuhan people's dinner table?
刘雀。
Liu Dao.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/刘雀编辑/零柒“都害怕，总得有人往前走一步。
"" Fear always shows that someone must go ahead.
”这是美团买菜武汉融桥站闵捷说的话，他所在站点的马路对面就是疫情定点医院。
"This is the United States Mission to buy vegetables Wuhan Rongqiao station Minjie said, his site across the road is the outbreak of the designated hospital.
站点一个员工的咳嗽，就吓退了其他员工，“其实我心里也挺害怕的。
Site an employee coughing, scared off other staff, "In fact, my heart is also quite scared.
我觉得不行，这个工作就摆在这里，我退下去，也总有人要顶上来。
I don't think so. The job is right here. I'm going back, and there's always someone up there.
”所有奋战在武汉战“疫”一线的人，摆在他们面前的，是责任和勇气，他们的坚持给了普通市民乐观和希望。
All those who fought the battle against the plague of Wuhan faced them with responsibility and courage, and their perseverance gave ordinary citizens hope and optimism.
这个时候其实不是为了挣钱盈利，真的会有种社会责任感，和武汉万科高尔夫站的吕灼一样，在疫情发生之前，美团买菜的员工从未感受到一份如此平凡的工作会在这个时刻显得如此伟大。
This time is not really to make money, there will really be a sense of social responsibility, and Wuhan Wanke Golf Station Lu, before the outbreak, American food buyers have never felt such an ordinary job at this moment so great.
保证菜品供应，保证居民的生活，总不能因为疫情所有人都躲着，生活还是得继续。
To ensure the food supply, to ensure the lives of the residents, can not be because the epidemic all people hide, life still has to continue.
他们的坚持也换来了市民的爱与支持。
Their persistence has also earned the love and support of the citizens.
“年三十那天，有个客人来取菜的时候，给我带了一份家里煲的热汤。
"On the thirtieth day of New Year, when a visitor came to fetch it, he brought me a piece of hot soup to cook at home.
”美团买菜汉口年华站的刘迪兰说，还有一位阿姨，在群里加了我的微信，一直让我注意防护，第二天还跑到店里，给我送来口罩、洗手液，又是一通叮嘱。
'Another aunt, who added my message to the group and kept me on guard, ran to the store the next day and brought me masks, hand sanitizers and instructions, 'says Liu Dylan, who bought vegetables for the U.S. group at Hankou Carnival Station.
还有一个小区里的大姐，每天早上8点钟准时到店门口站着，帮我维持秩序，引导大家排队。
There is also a small area elder sister, every morning at 8 o'clock punctually to the store door to help me maintain order, guide everyone in line.
有人带着狗过来取菜，她就帮人在门口牵狗等着。
When someone brought the dog to fetch the food, she held the dog by the door and waited.
这种时候不能回去陪家人，我其实心里挺难受的。
This kind of time can not go back with the family, I actually feel very uncomfortable.
看到客人温暖的举动，我觉得留下来很值得。
Seeing the warm behavior of the guests, I thought it was well worth staying.
疫情之下，人与人的互助成为一种自发的方式，城市也变得更友善了。
Under the epidemic, human solidarity became a spontaneous way, and cities became friendlier.
“我经常会很钦佩这些劳动人民，有时跟他们对上几句话，心里就有莫名的踏实。
"I often admire these laboring people, sometimes a few words with them, the heart of the inexplicable solid.
”武汉作家方方写到，“就像武汉最慌乱的那两三天里，冷风冷雨。
Wuhan writer Fang Fang wrote, "It was like two or three days in Wuhan, when the wind was cold and rainy.
几乎所有空空荡荡的马路上，都有一个环卫工人在风雨中一丝不苟地扫地。
Almost all the empty roads were swept meticulously by a sanitation worker in the storm.
看到他们，你会为自己的紧张不安感到惭愧，蓦然间你就会镇定下来。
Seeing them, you'll be ashamed of your nervousness, and suddenly you'll calm down.
”疫情蔓延以来，美团买菜在武汉的22个站点都在全力保障春节期间市民的三餐食材供给，客服及微信社群及时响应民众的需求。
Since the outbreak spread, 22 sites in Wuhan have been working hard to ensure that people are served three meals during the Spring Festival, and that the customer service and micro-credit community respond to the needs of the people.
以下是五位美团买菜一线工作人员的自述，讲述了五个平凡人自己的故事。
Here are the stories of five front-line grocery store workers who tell the stories of five ordinary people.
跟兄弟们并肩作战心里踏实讲述人：陆冰冰 华中仓储服务中心（武汉）我老家在武汉随州，大年三十是我休息的日子。
My hometown is in Suizhou, Wuhan. The Chinese New Year's Eve is my day of rest.
那天，武汉封城，大仓缺人，在岗的同事心里也很不安。
That day, Wuhan closed the city, large warehouse lack of people, in the post of colleagues in the heart is also very disturbed.
我在家完全呆不住了，决定马上出发回去。
Unable to stay at home at all, I decided to set off for home immediately.
我小孩出生不足百天，老婆在家休产假，看我要走，她心里挺难受的，说：“你去干嘛？都封城了，你也不一定去得了。
My child was born less than 100 days old, his wife is at home on maternity leave, to see me go, she was very uncomfortable, said: "What are you going to do?
”我说：“我试一下。
I said, "I will try.
”家里人没有再多说什么，他们怕我回去没有吃的喝的，给我打包了一些馒头、香肠和花生。
The family said nothing more, and fearing that I might return without food or drink, they packed me some buns, sausages, and peanuts.
这些干粮本来是为过年期间串门的亲朋好友准备的，特殊时期没人走动，正好给我带上了。
These dry grains were intended for relatives and friends visiting during the Spring Festival. No one moved around during the special period.
我家距离华中大仓大约190公里。
My home is about 190 kilometers from Central China Barn.
那时老家还没封城，我开车顺利出去，准备进武汉。
Back then, my hometown had not been closed, so I drove smoothly out, ready to enter Wuhan.
天下着小雨，路上也不见人。
It was raining and there was no one on the road.
我开着车经过几个收费站，一路没看到人，也没有相反方向回来的车。
As I drove past several toll booths, I saw no one and no cars coming back in the opposite direction.
到了收费口，警察说——“进去就出不来了”。
At the toll gate, the policeman said, "You can't get in."
我选择了进入武汉。
I chose to enter Wuhan.
武汉收费站图源网络下午四点，我到了大仓。
Wuhan toll station map source network at 4 p. m., I arrived at the warehouse.
同事们都挺意外，没想到我还能回来，看我晚饭都没吃就过来了，他们挺感动的。
Colleagues are quite surprised, did not expect me to come back, see I did not eat dinner came over, they are very moved.
我没觉得有什么，跟兄弟们并肩作战心里踏实。
I don't think there's anything. It's safe to fight with my brothers.
我没多说什么，马上开始帮他们检货，撸起袖子就干。
I said nothing more, so I'll help them pick up the goods, roll up my sleeves and start working.
华中仓储服务中心负责22个站点的菜品供应。
Huazhong Warehousing Service Center is responsible for the supply of dishes at 22 stations.
今年过年比较早，年前一个月，我们就把腊月二十七到正月十五能到岗的人员做了摸底，同时也做好员工关怀。
Earlier this year, the first month, we will be 27 to the fifteenth day of the first month to the staff to do a mapping, but also good care of staff.
这些都是为了在人员上做好准备。
It's all about getting people ready.
另外，我对接采购单，年前做好了备货，考虑到春节，每天的备货量要保证充足。
In addition, I docked the purchase order, the year before prepared the goods, taking into account the Spring Festival, every day to ensure adequate stock.
但这次封城对我们工作有一定影响。
But the closure has had an impact on our work.
首先供应商因为武汉疫情，到货会有一定的影响。
First, the supplier because of the Wuhan epidemic, the arrival of goods will have a certain impact.
不过供货问题在持续努力下解决了，从初三开始，陆续到货。
However, the supply problems in the ongoing efforts to resolve, from the beginning of the third day of delivery, successively arrived.
人员方面比较紧张。
The personnel side is tense.
我反正也没法回家了，就住宿舍。
I can't go home anyway. I live in the dorm.
因为大仓缺人，管理人员都得自己上，我从大年初一到现在天天上班，不敢休息。
Because the big warehouse lack of people, managers have to themselves, I from the first day of the New Year to work every day, dare not rest.
交通管制之后，员工来上班都有困难。
After traffic control, employees have trouble coming to work.
昨天，有个员工自己拉着行李步行越过两个障碍才到。
Yesterday, an employee walked past two obstacles with his luggage.
我开车把他接到员工宿舍住。
I drove him to the staff dormitory.
大家都是为了保证大仓能有充足的人手维持运转。
We all want to make sure that we have enough people in the warehouse to keep running.
现在工作量比较大，我基本回宿舍就洗洗睡了。
Now the workload is larger, I basically go back to the dormitory on the washing and sleeping.
但每天晚上回去或者早上醒来，我会跟家里人视频通话。
But every night when I go home or wake up in the morning, I talk to my family.
肺炎疫情爆发之前，我们就有规定，每天上班第一件事，用84消毒液兑水拖地，到凌晨三点收场时会再做一次消毒。
Before the outbreak of pneumonia, we had a rule to wash the floor with disinfectant 84 first thing a day and disinfect it again at 3 a. m.
这次疫情严重，年前公司就开始每天给员工发放口罩。
The company started distributing face masks to employees every day before the outbreak became severe.
从大年三十到现在，员工上班进园区会测温，进了仓库这个门，我们主管还会帮助员工进行测温，每天以日报的形式发到群里。
From about New Year's Eve to the present, the staff will enter the campus temperature measurement, into the warehouse this door, our supervisor will also help the staff temperature measurement, daily in the form of daily newspapers to the group.
我们也会在现场巡检，提醒员工三四个小时换一次口罩。
We also patrol the site to remind employees to change masks three or four hours.
在武汉，大家或多或少心里有点恐慌。
In Wuhan, people are more or less frightened.
我自己感觉还好，也会跟员工说，只要认真做好防护工作就没问题，大家一起顶过这几天。
I myself feel fine, will also tell the staff, as long as the serious protection work will not be a problem, we have survived these days together.
现在，大仓这边困难的几天已经度过了，一切都比较有序。
Now, the big warehouse side of the difficult days have passed, everything is more orderly.
看到客人温暖的举动，我觉得留下来很值得讲述人：刘迪兰 武汉汉口年华站我每天早上出门时，5点半，天还没大亮，路上很空旷，一马平川。
When I leave home every morning at 5: 30, it is not light yet, and the road is very empty and flat on the road.
武汉的公共交通停了，我骑车上班需要1小时15分钟，7点前赶到店里。
Wuhan public transportation stopped, I need a bike to work an hour and 15 minutes, by 7 o'clock to the store.
春节那几天，我天天都是这个作息。
That's what I do every day during the Spring Festival.
临近年底时爆发疫情，我们店里只剩两个人，另一个员工调去支援其他门店，这里只有我一个人撑。
Toward the end of the year, there were only two people left in our store. Another employee moved to support other stores. I was the only one there.
我给店里做完全面消毒，理完货，早上8点准时开店迎客。
I disinfect the shop completely, finish cleaning, and open the shop at 8 a. m. on time.
以前店里一开门，来提菜的人都凑进来，有的阿姨拉着你的手说话，很亲切。
Before the store opened the door, to pick up the people came in, some aunt holding your hand to speak, very kind.
现在所有人至少相隔一米交流。
Now everyone communicates at least one meter apart.
我在门口放了个大喇叭循环播放，提醒客人有间隔地排队，不要扎堆，保持安全距离。
I put a loudspeaker at the door and played it around, reminding the guests to line up at intervals, not to huddle, to keep a safe distance.
上午我在店里忙，爸妈轮番从老家打视频过来。
In the morning I was busy in the shop, my parents took turns playing video from my hometown.
我不敢让他们知道我来上班了，只好调成语音电话，一边给客人取菜，一边忽悠他们我在睡觉。
I didn't dare to let them know that I was coming to work, so I had to switch to voice phones and pick up the dishes while twisting my guests on that I was asleep.
客人听了都不好意思了。
The guest was embarrassed to hear that.
腊月二十几号疫情刚爆发时，大家比较恐慌。
When the outbreak of the disease in the early twenties, we were more panic.
有顾客就来问我，现在这种情况你们还开门吗？我说，我们不开门你家有菜吃吗？当然开门。
A customer came to me and asked me, do you still open the door in this situation? I said, don't we open the door to your house? Of course.
美团买菜门店图源网络所以今年过年我就没有回家。
Buy vegetables store map source network so this year I did not go home.
我老家在荆州，昨天爸爸过生日，往年这个时候，家里都是人，可热闹了。
My hometown is in Jingzhou, yesterday father's birthday, this time of year, the family is full of people, can be lively.
今年没法回去给爸爸过生日了。
I can't go back to my father's birthday this year.
大年三十那天，我晚上七点钟下班回家，洗头洗澡。
On New Year's Eve, I came home from work at seven in the evening to wash my hair.
然后给自己炒了个青菜，做了个炒饭——加了两个鸡蛋、火腿肠，切了肉丝，还放了点白菜梗子的豪华版炒饭。
Then he cooked himself a vegetable dish and cooked a fried rice with two eggs, ham sausages, sliced meat, and some plush fried rice with cabbage stalks.
我一边做饭一边给他们打视频聊天，感觉就像在家人身边一样。
As I cooked, I played video chats for them, feeling like I was around my family.
我去年9月到美团，这是我的第一份工作。
I went to the US Mission last September. It was my first job.
我这个人性子直，脾气急，到了店里工作后，天天跟中老年人打交道，经常要手把手教他们用手机下单，很磨练人的耐心和爱心。
I have a quick temper and a quick temper. When I get to the shop, I deal with the old and middle-aged people everyday.
好多朋友都说我变了，脾气温和了很多。
A lot of friends said I had changed my temper a lot.
其实跟这些大叔大妈打交道，我觉得很舒服，他们就像家里长辈一样。
In fact, when dealing with these great-uncles, I feel very comfortable. They are like the elders in the family.
年三十那天，有个客人来取菜的时候，给我带了一份家里煲的热汤。
On the 30th of July, when a guest came to fetch the food, he brought me a hot soup to cook at home.
还有一位阿姨，在群里加了我的微信，一直让我注意防护，第二天还跑到店里，给我送来口罩、洗手液，又是一通叮嘱。
Another aunt, Riga in the group of my message, always let me pay attention to the protection, the next day also ran to the store, to bring me surgical masks, hand sanitizer, is a note of advice.
还有一个小区里的大姐，每天早上8点钟准时到店门口站着，帮我维持秩序，引导大家排队。
There is also a small area elder sister, every morning at 8 o'clock punctually to the store door to help me maintain order, guide everyone in line.
有人带着狗过来取菜，她就帮人在门口牵狗等着。
When someone brought the dog to fetch the food, she held the dog by the door and waited.
这种时候不能回去陪家人，我其实心里挺难受的。
This kind of time can not go back with the family, I actually feel very uncomfortable.
看到客人温暖的举动，我觉得留下来很值得。
Seeing the warm behavior of the guests, I thought it was well worth staying.
叔叔阿姨买不到到菜更着急，我必须留下讲述人：林宇 武汉三元中央公园站我是湖北荆州人，今年25了。
Uncle and aunt can not buy food more anxious, I must leave the narrator: Lin Yu Wuhan three yuan Central Park Station I am Hubei Jingzhou people, this year 25.
去年，我离开家来武汉，入职美团买菜。
Last year, I left home and went to Wuhan to buy vegetables from a vocational school.
过年前排班时，我看站点其他员工基本都40岁左右，得回家过年，店里人手可能不够，就主动申请留下上班。
Before the New Year's Eve shift, I look at the other employees are 40 years old or so, have to go home for the New Year, the store may not be sufficient staff, on the initiative to apply to stay at work.
当时家里人都挺支持我的选择，我还年轻，正处于努力打拼养活自己，脱离父母经济支援的阶段，他们也希望我能多锻炼社会能力。
I was young, I was struggling to support myself, I was out of the financial support of my parents, and they wanted me to be more socially competent.
武汉封城的消息刚出来的时候，家里各种打电话让我回去。
Wuhan when the news came out of the city, home calls let me go back.
我妈说：“宁愿不要你挣这个钱，也要你马上回来”。
My mother said, "would rather you did not earn this money, also want you to come back immediately."
听她的语气，恨不得我挂掉电话就出现在她面前。
Listen to her tone, would like me to hang up the phone to appear in front of her.
我说我已经回不去了，店里面没什么人了，我必须要留下来，不然站点运作不起来。
I said I could not go back, there is no one inside the store, I have to stay, or the site will not work.
因为要封城了，那些周边小区的叔叔阿姨买不到菜更着急，我必须留下。
Because of the closure of the city, those surrounding the community uncle and aunt can not buy more anxious, I must stay.
我们店在江汉区。
Our shop is in Jianghan District.
疫情刚爆发的时候，小区里看不到一个人，平时晒太阳的，遛狗的，全都不见了，气氛很紧张。
When the outbreak of the outbreak, the community did not see a person, usually the sun, walk the dog, all disappeared, the atmosphere is very tense.
这几天大家心情慢慢放松了，零零星星能看到几个口罩、手套、护目镜全套装备齐全的人下来溜达。
Over the past few days we have relaxed slowly, a few masks, gloves, goggles can be seen in full complement of people down to stroll.
在家里闷久了，也想出来透口气。
At home for a long time, also want to take a breath.
我们的顾客大多是周边小区里上了年纪的长辈。
Most of our customers are elderly people in our neighborhood.
有的阿姨平时来取菜，顺便遛个狗，也经常跟我拉家常，都挺熟悉了。
Some aunts usually come to fetch food, walk a dog by the way, also often with me home, are quite familiar.
这段时间来取菜的人都戴着口罩，互相不说话。
Those who came to fetch food during this time wore masks and did not talk to each other.
但是在我们社区群里，大家都在讨论疫情。
But in our community, people are talking about the epidemic.
有的上了年纪的人会比较悲观，不知道怎么办好。
Some elderly people will be more pessimistic, do not know how to do.
我就跟他们说，要保持好心态，不要到处乱走，要相信国家一定会很快把这场疫情战斗结束，引导他们往好的方面想。
I will tell them to keep their heads above water and not wander around in the belief that the country will soon put an end to the epidemic and lead them to think for the better.
也有很多阿姨在群里跟我们说，挺感激我们在特殊时期还坚持工作。
There were also a lot of aunts in the group who told us how grateful we were for staying on the job during special times.
看到这种话我也很感动。
I was also moved to see that.
美团买菜店里取货区图源网络前几天有个顾客给对面社区坚持工作的社工订了鸡蛋和牛奶，要以匿名的形式送过去。
A few days ago, a customer ordered eggs and milk from a social worker who was sticking to his work in the opposite community and sent them anonymously.
她给我打电话，嘱咐我把这份礼物好好包装一下。
She telephoned me and instructed me to wrap the present properly.
我听了觉得很暖心。
It warms me a lot.
社区的工作人员从疫情爆发到现在承担了很重的职责，非常辛苦。
Community workers from the outbreak of the outbreak until now has taken on a very heavy responsibility, very hard.
有时候我上班，看到他们在对面也在工作，就感到我们不是在孤单地战斗。
Sometimes when I go to work and see them working across the street, I feel like we're not alone.
我们站点还有一个员工，这段时间也坚持上班，这种并肩作战的感觉真的很好。
Our site also has a staff, this time also adhere to work, this kind of side-to-side feeling really good.
在武汉，我自己租了一间十几平米的小单间。
In Wuhan, I rented a small room of ten square meters by myself.
大年三十那天，我下了一包速冻饺子吃。
I made a packet of frozen dumplings on New Year's Eve.
我每天骑共享单车上班，二十几分钟到店里。
I ride my bike to work every day and come to the store in twenty minutes.
但春节那几天一直下雨，我戴眼镜加口罩，那种天气下眼睛上都是白雾，看都看不清。
But it rained all the time during the Spring Festival. I wore glasses and a mask. My eyes were foggy and I couldn't see clearly.
没办法，只好天天打一把小伞走路上班。
Have no choice but to play a small umbrella every day walk to work.
我是家里的独生子，现在一个人在武汉，我妈跟我打电话，语气都挺着急，我爸就在边上听着。
I am the only child in the family, now a person in Wuhan, my mother and I call, tone is very anxious, my father is listening.
我每天跟他们汇报健康状况，尽量安慰他们，说我才二十几岁，抵抗力还是蛮好的。
I told them about my health every day and tried to comfort them by saying that I was only in my twenties and my resistance was good.
我也一直提醒他们，不要走亲戚，注意保护自己，毕竟家里还有个八十多岁的奶奶。
I have also been reminding them not to leave their relatives, take care to protect themselves, after all, there is a grandmother in her 80s.
等到疫情结束，肯定要第一时间回家看看爸妈和奶奶，我已经两年没有回家过年了。
By the end of the epidemic, I must first go home to see my parents and grandmother, I have not been home for two years New Year.
顾客说，多亏还有你们讲述人：吕灼 武汉万科高尔夫站今年过年，我原本打算跟我女朋友回家，定一下结婚的日子，她在腊月二十六就先回安徽老家了。
The customer said that thanks to your narrator: Luzhu Wuhan Vanke Golf Station this New Year, I had planned to go home with my girlfriend to fix a wedding date, she will return to Anhui home on the 26th of December.
腊月二十九，武汉封城。
WUHAN YUEN 29, WUHAN.
当时听到这个消息我很震惊。
I was shocked to hear the news.
我负责四个社区站点。
I run four community sites.
疫情的消息刚爆出来，大家都恐慌，随着武汉封城，我们上班只能踩自行车。
News of the outbreak just burst out, everyone panicked, with Wuhan closed, we had to pedal bicycles to work.
过了两天，其中一个站的员工听顾客说，小区里有一个感染者去世了。
Two days later, an employee at one of the stations heard from customers that an infected person in the neighborhood had died.
出了这个消息，这种情况下我只能自己顶上了。
With the news, I'm on top of myself in this situation.
这个时候其实不是为了挣钱盈利，真的会有种社会责任感，觉得必须保证菜品供应，保证居民的生活。
This time is not really to make money, there will really be a sense of social responsibility, feel the need to ensure the food supply, to ensure the lives of residents.
总不能因为疫情所有人都躲着，生活还是得继续。
You can't go on with life just because everyone's hiding from the epidemic.
图源网络反正也走不了，我跟女朋友说，结婚的事情只能推到以后，我就继续上班。
Graph source network anyway also can not walk, I told my girlfriend, marriage matter can only be put off until later, I continue to work.
她很理解，但也很担心，每次跟我通电话都各种交代，“口罩戴两层”，“到家多喷酒精”。
She is very understanding, but also very worried, every time I talk on the phone, "mask wearing two layers," "home spray alcohol."
初二那天，两个站人手告急。
On the second day of junior high school, two stations are urgent.
我凌晨三点多出门，往六七公里外的恒达城赶。
I left home at three in the morning to catch Hengda six or seven kilometres away.
武汉现在白天街上都安安静静，更何况大半夜，路上一个人都没有，我就顺着路灯走，看到了自行车就骑。
Wuhan is now quiet in the daytime, not to mention in the middle of the night, no one on the road, I walked along the street lights, saw the bike ride.
到站点忙了一上午，然后又走路加骑车，花了两个小时到高尔夫站。
After a busy morning at the station, I walked and bicycled for two hours to get to the golf station.
保证这两个站的顾客顺利把菜领到手。
Make sure the customers at the two stations get their dishes served smoothly.
第一天到站点我就震惊了——所有顾客自动排队，人跟人之间距离超过两米，出去一个，进来一个，很有秩序。
I was shocked when I got to the site the first day - all customers automatically queued up, more than two meters away from each other, one out, one in, very orderly.
这些老顾客跟原来站点的员工都很熟了，过来看到我，不认识。
These old customers are familiar with the original site staff, come to see me, do not know.
有的人就问，小伙子怎么换人了？我说，非常时期我来顶岗。
Some people asked, how did the young man change people? I said, the emergency I came to the post.
顾客说，多亏还有你们。
The customer said thanks to you.
这几天根本没有人手换班，顾客今天看到是我，明天还看到我，后天还是我，他们也很感动。
These days, there is no manual shift, the customer saw me today, tomorrow also see me, the day after tomorrow, they are also very moved.
有一天早上，我在店里忙着帮客人取菜，出了一身汗，口渴。
One morning, I was busy fetching food from the shop, sweating and thirsty.
我就问进来的那个四五十岁的大叔，对面超市几点开门，我说我想去买瓶水。
I asked the 40-50-year-old uncle who came in. When did the supermarket open? I said I wanted to buy a bottle of water.
大叔马上说，对面十点才开，你别等了。
Don't wait until ten o'clock across the street.
他马上拆开自己来取的一箱牛奶，要开一瓶给我喝。
He immediately opened the box of milk he had come for, and ordered a bottle for me to drink.
我不肯要，他还硬是要给我，我好不容易才婉拒。
I would not have it, and he insisted on giving it to me, which I reluctantly refused.
努力坚持，总会度过讲述人：闵捷 武汉融桥锦城站腊月二十八武汉封城那天早上，公司开会，说现在疫情要密切关注，严格做好店面消毒和人员防护。
Min Jie Wuhan Rongqiao Jincheng Station WUHAN Fengcheng that morning, the company said the epidemic situation should be closely monitored, strictly do the shop surface disinfection and personal protection.
我们店所在的桥口区属于疫情高发区，社区隔一条马路对面就是一家医院，距离也就五百多米，里面收的全是确诊病患。
Our shop is located in the Qiaokou area is a high epidemic area, the community across a road is a hospital, about 500 meters away, the inside is full of confirmed patients.
那几天人心惶惶，我跟员工们说，如果我们都走了，顾客买菜就成了问题。
Those days were scary, and I told my staff that if we all left, it would be a problem for customers to buy food.
我说，我跟大家呆在一起，坚持吧。
I said, I'm staying with everyone. Hang in there.
这个工作就摆在这里，我退下去，也总有人要顶上来。
This work is here, I retreat, there will always be someone to top up.
都害怕，总得有人往前走一步。
Everyone is afraid. Somebody has to move on.
说实话，头几天我心里真的紧张，害怕，到现在已经接受了这种情况。
To tell you the truth, I was really nervous and scared for the first few days, and now I have accepted the situation.
只要保证自己身体好，吃好睡好，不咳嗽，不发烧，我觉得问题不大。
As long as their own good health, eat good sleep, do not cough, do not have a fever, I feel that the problem is not big.
每天回到家，我都会喷酒精，洗个澡，测体温，喝一点板蓝根。
Every day when I get home, I spray alcohol, take a shower, take a temperature test, and drink a bit of Banlangen.
不知道有没有用，但是也要去做。
I don't know if it's useful, but I have to do it.
这是对自己负责，也是对周边的朋友、对顾客负责。
This is responsible to yourself, to your friends around you and to your customers.
以前店里一开门，我们顾客就一窝蜂往里蹿，现在都自觉排队，隔三米一个人，反而有秩序了。
Once the store opened, our customers began to swarm in, now all consciously queuing up, every three meters a person, on the contrary, there is order.
有些顾客会让你把菜捡好之后放那里，他自己去领，互相没有接触。
Some customers will let you pick up the food and put it there, he went to get it himself, no contact with each other.
现在所有人都戴着口罩，有些顾客还戴着手套，穿雨衣一样的防护外套，戴个护目镜，全副武装做好保护措施。
All are wearing masks, some wearing gloves, raincoat-like overalls, goggles and well-armed protective measures.
封城之后货源很紧张，一些年纪大的顾客不太会玩智能手机，经常抢不到菜，我就帮他去下单。
After the closure of the city, the source of goods is very tight, some older customers do not play smart phones, often unable to grab food, I help him to order.
消息刚出来那几天，小区里气氛特别紧张，就跟空了似的，没有人。
Just a few days after the news, the atmosphere in the community is particularly tense, as if empty, no one.
这两天，陆陆续续有几个人，全副武装出来锻炼身体，走路。
These two days, a few people, armed to exercise, walk.
路上也稍微能看到一些车了。
You can see some cars on the road, too.
武汉人说话很硬，嗓门大。
Wuhan people speak very hard, loud voice.
最近大家都不愿意说话了，我反而觉得好像整个城市的人都变友善安静了。
Lately people have been reluctant to talk, and I feel as if the whole city has become friendly and quiet.
年三十和初一，物资很紧张，交通也停了。
On the thirtieth and first day of the year, materials are tight and the traffic stops.
没办法，我只能一家站点一家站点地送消毒液、口罩和其他物资。
No way, I can only one site a site to send disinfectant, masks and other supplies.
那几天都下雨。
It rained all those days.
我就冒着雨骑着电动车，跑了六家店。
I rode electric cars in the rain and ran to six stores.
每到一家店，我跟同事们就互相鼓励一下，用我们武汉话说，“搞下克”——努力坚持，总会度过的。
Every time I go to a shop, my colleagues and I encourage each other, in our Wuhan words, "do it" - to persevere, always spent.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁来守护武汉人的饭桌。
Who will guard the Wuhan people's dinner table?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "谁来守护武汉人的饭桌";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Who guards Wuhan's dining table?;
var msg_desc = "疫情之中，守护好“菜篮子”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
