直击湖北：“围城”里的众生相丨特别报道。
Straight at Hubei: The Life of the City under Siege.
锌财经编辑部。
Editor of Zinc Finance.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/讲述人编辑/诗佳自1月23日10点武汉正式封城后，为了进一步阻止疫情的扩散，武汉及其他周边城市也陆续做出封城举措。
Wuhan and other neighboring cities have also taken measures to stop the spread of the epidemic since the official closure of Wuhan on January 23 at 10: 00 pm.
仿佛一夜之间，整个湖北省完全进入了封闭的状态。
As if overnight, the whole province of Hubei was completely closed.
据国家统计局2018年统计数据，湖北省常住人口约为5917万人，除了是人口大省，湖北每年还向全国各地输出众多优秀劳务人口。
According to 2018 statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics, the resident population of Hubei Province is 59.17 million.
而对于外出打工的人们来说，春节过后本该是返程的日子，但因为这场重灾，大家不得不都滞留在各自的城市。
For people who work outside, the Spring Festival should be the return of the day, but because of the disaster, we have to stay in their respective cities.
尽管身处困境，但他们还是在用着自己的方式来抗击疫情。
Despite their plight, they are fighting the epidemic in their own way.
而在这其中，有些人冲到前线，也有些人为此取消婚礼，还有些人主动进行自我隔离.......以下是四位在湖北工作的普通人对于这次疫情的一些感受和思考，锌财经整理报道。
Some of them rush to the front line, others cancel their wedding, others choose to isolate themselves... Here are some thoughts and feelings of the four people who work in Hubei Province about the epidemic.
“就算一个人在武汉过年，我也感到无比心安”口述：小L老家：湖北·武汉工作地：武汉职业：造型师口述时间：1月29日我是土生土长的武汉人，对于这次疫情，我算是全程见证并身陷其中，但并不像网上报道的那样，武汉人都比较恐慌和焦虑，恰恰相反，我感觉武汉才是最安全的。
"Even if a person in Wuhan, I feel very happy." Oral: Little L hometown: Hubei wuhan working place: I am a native of Wuhan, January 29, I am a native of Wuhan, I have witnessed the outbreak of this epidemic, but unlike online reports, Wuhan people are more panic and anxiety, on the contrary, I feel Wuhan is the safest.
1月20号我们全家在一起吃完饭后，我父母因为有事，去了蔡甸（武汉的一个区），没想到这顿饭成了我们全家人的农历年夜饭，23号凌晨宣布武汉当天上午10点即将封城，我爸妈打算连夜赶回来，但我考虑到武汉情况比较严重，而且大半夜回来也不安全，我便让他们留在蔡甸了。
On January 20th, after we had dinner together, my parents went to Cai Den (a district in Wuhan) because of some business. It was announced that Wuhan would be closed at 10 am on the morning of 23rd.
父母在出发前，冰箱里给我准备了很多吃的喝的，这也成为了我一个人呆在家里的全部食粮。
Before my parents left, I got a lot of food and drink in the fridge, which became all I needed to stay at home.
自23号过后，我就基本没有再出过门，在家里的状态完全就是与世隔绝，除了拼命刷新闻，其余时间就是打游戏、看电视和睡觉。
Since the 23rd I have barely been out of the house, isolated from the rest of the world except for the press, and the rest of the time playing games, watching TV and sleeping.
而在每天早上醒来的时候，我基本都能收到很多朋友的问候，问我还缺什么，武汉现是不是很严重了，在家里做什么等问题。
Every morning when I wake up, I can basically get a lot of greetings from friends, ask me what is still missing, Wuhan is not very serious, do at home and so on.
对于这些，我都会和他们说我很好，不缺什么，同时还对他们表示武汉并没有他们想象的那么恐怖。
For this, I will tell them that I am good, no lack of anything, but also to them that Wuhan is not as terrible as they think.
有时实在憋得慌了，很想出门，我就会拿新闻里的事情和报道来提醒自己千万不要出门，在家里是最安全的。
Sometimes I get so overwhelmed and want to get out of the house that I remind myself not to go out of the house with things and stories in the news.
后来，有一天家里突然没水了，实在很渴，我就很想去超市，但是想到新闻里报道说超市都关门了，我再三思考后，还是决定出去碰碰运气，因此在出门的时候，基本是全副武装：口罩、帽子和手套。
Then one day when the water ran out of water and I was really thirsty, I wanted to go to the supermarket, but thinking about the news report that the supermarket was closed, I decided to take a chance, so when I went out, I was mostly armed: masks, hats and gloves.
下楼后，发现一楼的小卖部居然还开着，我赶紧把最近缺的东西全部一次性采购完毕了，做好了再不出门的准备。
Downstairs, found that the first floor of the canteen is still open, I hurriedly to the recent lack of all the one-time procurement, ready not to go out again.
经过这次经历，我觉得买东西有时候不一定非得去大超市，人多还容易感染，关键时期，在家门口的小超市买东西还相对方便和安全。
After this experience, I think shopping sometimes does not have to go to the big supermarket, many people are also easy to infect, the key period, in front of the door of the small supermarket shopping is relatively convenient and safe.
其实武汉城市内大家的心态还是都挺好的，并没有多恐慌，就像我住的这个小区还举行了集体唱歌的活动。
In fact, Wuhan city's mentality is still quite good, and there is no panic, as I live in this community also held group singing activities.
这个活动我也参加了，但我之前是不准备参与的，完全是当时的气氛带动的，真的很感动，现在回想起来依旧热泪盈眶。
I also participated in this activity, but I was not prepared to participate, is completely driven by the atmosphere of the time, really moved, now still in retrospect tears.
27号之前就有人在各个群里发布大家一起要唱歌的消息，到当天晚上大概7点半左右，我所在的小区，就有很多人拿着手机电筒在进行打光，一开始没多少人，后来人越来越多，让整个小区充斥着一种别样的氛围中，和前几日的死寂完全不一样，有人在喊武汉加油、有人在叫唱歌、也有在吵架的、差不多到了8点左右，就有人开始喊“1 、2、3”，带头唱起来了，后面大家都跟着唱了。
By about 7: 30 that evening, many people in my neighborhood were using flashlights. At first, not many people were shining with their mobile torches. Later, more and more people filled the neighborhood with a different atmosphere.
受访者朋友圈唱歌场景我当时是准备站在窗口看热闹的，但那个场景很难说你不去融入，真的很感动，情不自禁就跟着唱了起来，我还用手机拍了下来。
I was about to stand in the window and watch the show, but it was hard to say you didn't fit in. I was so moved that I couldn't help singing.
我记得当时我是带着口罩唱歌的，因为网上有报道说飞沫也有可能传染病毒。
I remember singing with a mask when it was reported on the Internet that droplets could also transmit the virus.
其实，我认为武汉相对湖北其他城市来说是最安全的，毕竟好的医疗条件和资源都在这里，而且大家的防范意识也慢慢提上来了，待在家里真的很安全。
In fact, I think Wuhan is the safest city compared with other cities in Hubei, after all, good medical conditions and resources are here, and everyone's awareness of prevention slowly come up, staying at home is really safe.
我有几个同事是恩施的（湖北的另外一个城市），他们那边的人听说他们是武汉回来的还有人谩骂和责怪他们，其实他们真的是在回去之前做了很多防护和检查，在家也主动隔离了，想想挺替他们不值的。
Some of my colleagues were Enshi (another city in Hubei Province), and when they heard that they had come back from Wuhan and were scolded and scolded, they really did a lot of protection and check-up before they returned home.
“为了怕传染给家里人，我特意去做了CT检查”口述：羊羊羊羊羊老家：湖北·公安职业：考研辅导老师工作地：武汉口述时间：1月30日我其实很早就开始关注这个事情了，因为平时我本身就比较重视医学知识这块，21号回老家时，我发现我体温稍微有点高，我怕我感染了武汉肺炎，因为确实每天坐地铁会经过金银潭这个重灾区，为此我特地去医院拍了CT检查，还好是虚惊一场。
In order to avoid infecting my family, I made a special CT examination to oral: sheep sheep sheep sheep sheep sheep hometown of Hubei Public Security occupation I started to pay attention to this matter very early, because when I returned to my hometown on January 30th, I found I had a little high temperature.
我记得在12月下旬的时候，我所在的一个微信群有人把某个医院的内部文件发进来（后面网上有报道过这个事情），看到这份文件后，凭直觉我认为这个病毒没有平时报道的那个简单，从那个时候，我便每天上下班坐地铁都开始带口罩了。
I remember that in late December, someone in my small group sent in internal documents from a hospital (reported on the later website), and when I saw this file, I intuitively assumed that the virus was not as simple as normally reported. From then on, I started wearing masks on the subway to and from work.
最让我印象深刻的是12月31号，那天下班后，公交车特别堵，平时20分钟就能到的，当天足足花了一个小时多，下车换乘地铁也是一样，等了好几趟才被挤上去。
What impressed me most was that on December 31st, after work, buses were so blocked that they could get there in about 20 minutes. It took me more than an hour to get off the bus and change to the subway.
我当时很敏感也很抗拒，因为当天是12月份最后一天，很多人都跑到市中心去跨年，但我看到基本没有人戴口罩。
I was very sensitive and resistant because it was the last day of December, and a lot of people went downtown for the New Year, but I saw very few people wearing masks.
受访者当天朋友圈当时很少有人把这个病毒当回事，大家真正开始重视起来是1月19号左右开始的，因为网上舆论开始发酵了，有小道消息称之前那些信息是医院内部人士慢慢流传出来的。
Few people in the group took the virus seriously at the time, and the real focus started around January 19th as the online public opinion began to ferment, with rumors that it had slowly spread from insiders.
我本来是准备1月23号回家的，因为我自己所带的辅导班原计划是21号结课。
I was getting ready to go home on January 23rd because my own tutorial was originally planned for the 21st.
但从19号开始，网上新闻越来越多，我感觉情况比我想象中的更严重，当天上课的时候已经有学生开始带口罩了，于是我立马改签火车票，我提前到了21号晚上回家。
But as more and more online news began to arrive on the 19th, I felt worse than I had expected. By the time a student started wearing masks in class, I immediately changed my ticket and arrived home on the 21st.
21号当天去上班的时候，就已经发现地铁里的人已经基本都戴着口罩了，很少有人不带，为了保险起见，我还特意戴了双层口罩。
By the time I got to work on the 21st, I had already noticed that most people in the subway were wearing masks. Few of them were wearing them. To be on the safe side, I wore a double mask.
当天，除了上课，其他时候都在关注网上消息和病情进度，我甚至做好下完课直接去火车站回家的打算，因为回家必经之路是金银潭这个重灾区。
I even got ready to head straight home from class to the train station. The only way to get home was through the great disaster area of Gold and Silver Pool.
但鉴于行李等都没有收拾，于是我还是匆忙回了趟住所。
But as the luggage had not been unpacked, I hurried back to my residence.
武汉金银潭医院（网图，侵删）回到住所的第一件事是测体温，因为平时比较注重这些，家里会常备体温计，测完发现是37.4℃，稍微高于正常体温，我很怕我在火车站被隔离，因为有当天上午回老家的同事说，车站已经有工作人员在检测体温了。
Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital (net map, delete) back to the first thing to take temperature measurement, because usually pay more attention to these, the home will stand by the thermometer, found that 37.4 degrees Celsius, slightly higher than normal temperature, I was afraid of being isolated at the railway station, because colleagues who returned home that morning said staff were already checking the temperature.
忐忑不安的来到火车站，居然没有工作人员给我测体温，不知是没有设备还是什么原因，反正我没有被栏下来检查，但我看到火车站里无论是工作人员，还是乘客全部都戴着口罩，当时既庆幸又害怕。
I went to the train station with no staff to take my temperature, I do not know whether there is no equipment or why, anyway, I was not down to check, but I saw the train station, whether staff or passengers are wearing masks, at the time both happy and afraid.
回家后，我开始着魔似的刷新闻，每增长一个数据，每报道一个感染病例，我的心都被揪一下，而且自我怀疑我是不是我也感染了。
When I got home, I began to brush the news like a demon, and for every increase in data, every reported case of infection, my heart was torn and I wondered if I was infected.
第二天我就坐不住了，我让我妈去买了体温计，发现体温在36.4℃-37℃度间，尽管是正常体温，但之前有报道说有些人没有发热症状，结果检查出来依旧有肺部感染，而且我妈妈身体不是很好，抵抗力较差，我真的很怕万一我感染了，传染给家里人。
The next day I couldn't sit down. I asked my mother to buy a thermometer and found the body temperature between 36.4 and 37C. Despite normal body temperature, it had been reported that some people did not have fever.
再三思考后，我在回来的第二天，也就是23号，决定全服武装准备自己去趟我们市市医院做进一步检查，当时我把日常用品也都准备好了，随时携带，已经做好了隔离准备。
On second thoughts, on the second day of my return, the 23rd, I decided to go to our city hospital in full dress and ready for further examination.
受访者出门照片我到医院的时候，发现很多人都是从武汉刚回来的，有人低烧，有人感觉自己不舒服，总之都怀疑自己感染了新型肺炎，来医院做确认检查的。
When I arrived at the hospital, I found that many people had just returned from Wuhan. Some people had a low fever, others felt unwell. In a word, they suspected themselves of contracting the new type of pneumonia and came to the hospital for a check-up.
我和医生说明情况后，医生说他们只能做检查，但检测是否确诊，只能去武汉。
After I explained the situation to the doctor, the doctor said they could only do the examination, but whether the diagnosis, can only go to Wuhan.
因为我当时心比较急，就说那就先检查吧，我还特意挂的急诊，希望快点拿到结果，我做了两项检查：抽血和CT ,我记得我去做CT的时候，照CT的床上，前面好几个人都是用的同一个一次性蓝色防护罩，我问医生为什么不换，医生说“早断货了，你不知道吗？”。
Because I was in a hurry, I said check it first, I hung up the emergency, hope to get the results quickly, I did two tests: blood and CT, I remember when I went to the CT bed, several people in front of the same disposable blue shield, I asked why the doctor did not change, the doctor said "early, do not you know?"
可见湖北下面的小城市当时的医疗物质也是极度缺乏的。
It can be seen that the small city below Hubei medical material was also extremely scarce.
等我拿到自己的检查结果后，医生说身体状态都比较正常，让我回家会第二天在看看体温，果然第二天一查，36.4℃，不过之后的一个星期我依然不敢掉以轻心，除了房间就是客厅，基本不出门。
When I got my results, the doctor said I was in better shape. I went home to check my temperature the next day, and it turned out to be 36.4 degrees the next day.
受访者检查报告小区最近每天都有喇叭在宣传新型肺炎的防护等知识，我妈也主动把我的情况汇报给社区工作人员，现在心态也慢慢平和下来，享受和家人在一起的平静和美好。
Interviewees report that the district has recently been trumpeting every day to promote knowledge of new pneumonia protection, and my mother volunteered to report my situation to community workers, and now the mood is slowly calming down and enjoying the peace and beauty with my family.
“婚礼延迟，但爱不延迟”口述：麦客老家：湖北·仙桃工作地：徐州职业：某集团建筑工程师口述时间：1月30 日我们本来是定在正月初六（1月30日）结婚，但因为疫情原因，婚礼做了延期安排，具体日子暂未定下来，我想最早也得“五一”了吧，再不行差不多就“十一”了，平时大家工作都太忙了，婚礼大大小小的事情也挺多的，所以之后估计还是会选长假。
The wedding was postponed, but the date was not decided yet because of the outbreak of the disease. I think we are busy with our work and we have a large number of weddings and other related matters, so we may take a long vacation afterwards.
我和她是17年6月份开始恋爱的，是在考研时认识的，她是我学姐，比我大一届。
She and I began to fall in love in June 17, when I met in the postgraduate examination, she is my sister-in-law, one year older than me.
因为工作的原因，我们基本都是异地，中间也有争吵，但最后两个人还是坚持下来了。
Because of the work, we are basically all different places, there is also a quarrel, but the last two people still stuck to it.
因为年龄也不小了，再加上家里的催促，我们在19年10月份双方父母见面定了时间：2020年农历正月初六。
Due to our old age and the urging of our families, we met in October of that year on the sixth day of the first month of the 2020 calendar.
为此我过年特意提早回家了，1月18号我就从徐州坐动车回老家，中间在汉口火车站中转，是的，旁边就是华南海鲜市场，当时因为病情并没有大肆宣传，火车站里也基本没有人戴口罩。
On January 18th, I drove home from Xuzhou and stopped at Hankou Railway Station. Yes, it was next to the South China Seafood Market, where there was little publicity and few people wore masks.
虽然知道有这个事情，但还是比较淡定的，中转加等车，在火车站待了2小时左右。
Although know this matter, but still relatively calm, transit to wait for the bus, stay in the railway station for about 2 hours.
汉口火车站（网图，侵删）现在回想起来，不免感到后怕。
Hankou Railway Station (net map, delete) now in retrospect, unavoidably afraid.
回到老家后，大概是20号左右开始，关于疫情的报道开始频繁起来，甚至每个小时都会有进展的推送，我便开始警觉起来，感觉这不是一般的疾病，开始频繁刷新闻，特别是报道出有人在武汉只是做了短暂逗留就感染了，我开始下意思的做自我隔离，基本在待在家里不出门了，同时开始后悔为什么当时要从汉口站做中转。
Back home, about the 20th began, the epidemic began to be reported frequently, even every hour of the push, I began to feel that it is not a common disease, began to brush the news frequently, especially reports of people in Wuhan only after a brief stay infected, I began to mean to do isolation, basically stay at home, and began to regret the Hankou Station transit.
21号看到有医护人员感染，并确定可以人传人之后，我开始考虑要不要取消婚礼，并与家里人商量，一开始他们是不太支持延期的，父母这辈人的防范意识毕竟没有我们高，直到他们自己也在电视里看到报道了，镇上也有相关宣传了，便慢慢接受了。
After seeing the spread of infection among the medical staff on the 21st, I began to consider whether to cancel the wedding and discuss with my family that they were not very supportive of the postponement in the first place. After all, the parents didn't have as much sense of prevention as we did until they saw it on TV and there was publicity about it in town.
22号开始，我便在微信上开始通知亲戚朋友，特别是外地的同学老师们，让他们提前做退票和行程取消等准备。
From the 22nd, I began to inform relatives and friends, especially students and teachers from other places, to make preparations for the refund and cancellation of the trip in advance.
还好，大家都比较理解，也都支持我的决定，这一点，多少让我有些心安和感动。
Thankfully, everyone understood and supported my decision, which somewhat reassured and moved me.
受访者提供的婚礼取消截图同时，我也和岳父母商量她们那边是否要一起取消，我们虽然都在湖北省，但不是一个市，原计划初五是她们家正式日期，我从她家娶亲，接她到我们这边的酒店，初六为我们家正式日期，我把她从酒店接到我家。
Although we were both in Hubei province, we were not a city. I took her from her house and took her to our hotel. On the sixth day of the year, I took her from the hotel and brought her to my house from the hotel.
一开始岳父母也是不同意，因为亲戚朋友全部通知完了，而且时间也比较紧了，他们还是打算按照原计划进行，没想到几天后他们的城市也封了，所以23号终于全部确定下来，双方一起延期，婚礼算是正式取消了。
At first his parents-in-law did not agree, because the relatives and friends have all been informed, and the time is tight, they planned to proceed according to the original plan, but a few days later their city was also closed, so finally the 23rd was finalized, the two sides postponed together, the wedding was officially cancelled.
我其实挺感谢我老婆的，推迟婚礼的决定她都一直支持我，现在困在家里，我啥都不干，就一天到晚微信上陪她聊天解闷，按照目前的情况看来，我想我们至少也得一个月后才能见面了吧。
I really appreciate my wife's decision to postpone the wedding She's always been behind me, Now I'm stuck at home, I'm not doing anything, I'm talking to her all the time, As things stand, I don't think we'll see each other for at least a month.
“同科室有确诊的病人，我回家后主动与家人保持距离”口述：路路老家：湖北·荆州工作地：荆州职业：发热科护士口述时间：1月29日我是一名发热科护士，1月24号上午轮岗结束后，大年三十在家里与家人吃了年夜饭，初一一早便马上回到医院，初四轮岗结束后，回家便做了自我隔离，医院情况太复杂了，我害怕传染给家人。
When I returned home, I took the initiative to keep my family at arm's length. Lu Road Home: Hubei Jingzhou Working Place: Jingzhou Occupational: Febrile Nurse Oral time: January 29, after the shift on January 24, I eat dinner with my family at home, the first day of January 24 immediately returned to the hospital, after the end of the Fourth Shigang isolation, hospital conditions too complex, I fear to infect my family.
大概从1月20号开始，我们科室完全处于一直暴走的状态，全部都是就诊的病人、隔离的患者和忙碌的医护人员，而我作为一名工作不到2年的“新人”，感觉之前过去的10多天像半个世纪那么漫长。
Starting around January 20th, our department was in a state of complete exasperation, with all the patients treated, isolated and busy, and I, as a newcomer who had worked for less than two years, felt as if the previous 10 days had been half a century long.
我从1月20号收到全员必须到岗的通知，是强制性到岗，并不像网上传的那样有抽签、党员和单生优先等，可能我们这个小地方，确实医护人员也没那么充足吧。
I received a notice from January 20th that all staff must be on duty. It was mandatory to be on duty. It was not like the online practice of drawing lots, party members and singleton preference.
我记得当时到岗的时候，大家多少有些抵触和不满，因为我们这样的职业，平时也没有多少时间休息，这次居然连春节都直接没了。
I remember that when we arrived at the post, people were somewhat resistant and dissatisfied, because our profession, usually do not have much time to rest, this time even the Spring Festival directly lost.
到岗工作之后，主任一直在强调武汉肺炎的严重性和传染性极强，让我们一定要格外注意那些发热和咳嗽无力的患者，同时也让我们做好自我保护，一定要戴口罩，和严重病患保持一定距离。
After arriving at work, the director has been stressing the seriousness and infectious nature of Wuhan Pneumonia. Let us pay special attention to those with fever and weak cough, but also let us protect ourselves, must wear masks, and maintain a certain distance from serious patients.
当时我们的防护设备也非常简单，就是常见的口罩、头套、手套，脚套，而且也是非常紧缺，并没有所谓的防护服和护目镜，这些都是在28号左右才有的，也是非常紧缺。
Our protective equipment was very simple. It was a very common mask, hood, glove, foot holster, and it was in short supply. There were no so-called protective clothing and goggles, which were only around the 28th and were in short supply.
医护人员（网图，侵删）因为我是护士，日常工作大部分还是测体温、挂水、做病例记录，根据主治医生的病历做病人护理等。
Because I am a nurse, most of my daily work is to take temperature, hang water, make medical records, do patient care according to the medical records of attending doctors, etc.
21号开始，来医院就诊的病人明显增多，很多都是武汉返乡人员，他们认为自己的状况和新闻里报道的武汉病毒很像，所以希望来检查。
Since May 21, there has been a marked increase in the number of patients visiting hospitals, many of whom are Wuhan returnees. They believe their condition is similar to Wuhan virus reported in the news, so they want to check it out.
说实话，对于这样的患者，我们科室是比较反感的，本来大家就已经非常忙了，各种物资都缺乏，现在来就是添乱，在我看来当时的医院并不比自己家里安全。
To tell the truth, for such patients, our department is relatively antipathetic, we were already very busy, all kinds of materials are lacking, now is to add chaos, it seems to me that the hospital is no safer than their own home.
1月24号是除夕，科主任说让我们几个比较年轻，身体比较弱的同事提前回家，至少和家里人吃个年夜饭，我们开始不同意，后来经不住她的劝，也确实有点想回去看看了，从20号到岗，身上衣服都有点发臭了。
January 24th is New Year's Eve, the director of the science department said that let our younger and weaker colleagues come home early, at least for a New Year's dinner with the family.
于是，23号中午我们收拾了下，然后回家。
So we packed up for lunch on the 23rd and went home.
回家前，我让爸妈提前准备了很多消毒水，进屋前给我全身喷了3次才进家门，晚上吃了年夜饭后，妈妈一直问我累不累、危险不危险，其实当时我们科室已经有确诊的病例了，我没敢多说，怕他们担心。
Before I went home, I had my parents prepare a lot of disinfectant water. I sprayed it all over my body three times before entering the house. After dinner at night, my mother kept asking me if I was tired and dangerous.
当晚睡得也不踏实，老想着还在医院的同事们，第二天一大早，和爸妈简单拜年后，我便要出发了，当时市区公交车已经停运了，是爸爸开车送的我去医院的，到医院后，我没敢让他多留一秒钟，下了车赶紧让他掉头。
I slept soundly that night, thinking about my colleagues in the hospital, and I started the next morning, after a brief New Year call to my parents, when the city bus had stopped running and my father had driven me to the hospital.
荆州三医建成集中医学隔离观察点如果说年前是状态是预备期，年后就是真正的战场了，第一阶段潜伏期快到了，会迎来一个新的爆发期。
If the state was the preparatory period before last, and the real battlefield after that, the incubation period of the first stage is approaching and a new outbreak period will be ushered in.
确诊的人数每天都在变化，疑似的病例更是没法统计，我们当时只能管最严重的病例，穿上防护服后最少是大半天不能脱，一是因为穿脱浪费时间，二是这套脱了，可能就没下一套可以穿了，同时为了减少上厕所频次，我们基本很少喝水。
The number of cases diagnosed varies from day to day, and the number of suspected cases cannot be counted. We were only able to take care of the most serious cases for at least half a day after wearing protective clothing.
而在这个过程中，基本没时间看手机，有时候只有在吃饭那一会刷下，期间爸妈给我发了很多信息，都只是看看，也没时间回。
And in this process, basically no time to see the phone, sometimes only in the meal will brush, during my parents sent me a lot of information, just look, there is no time to return.
至于网上的信息，我们医护人员也是麻木的，可能身处其中，反而比较淡定吧。
As for the information on the Internet, our medical staff is also numb, may be in one, but relatively calm bar.
看到自己检查的病例有确诊的，刚开始比较惊讶和恐慌，后面也慢慢淡定了，有时间感觉自己和病毒融为一体了，反倒会刻意和身边的人保持距离。
See oneself examine the case to have confirmed, be surprised and panic at first, the later also slowly calm down, have time to feel oneself and the virus fused, on the contrary will deliberately keep away from the people around them.
初四轮岗结束后，我自己是走回去的，本来家和医院就还算近，不过这次，我没有进新房子的大门，直接去了以前的老房子，爸妈怕我难受，说他们不怕感染，但我想想这样反倒让自己安心些，我很多同事回家后，都选择自我隔离，有的甚至不打算回家了。
After the end of the four-day shift, I walked back home, the original home and hospital is still close, but this time, I did not enter the door of the new house, directly to the old house, parents afraid of me, said they are not afraid of infection, but I think it comforted me, many of my colleagues returned home, choose self-isolation, some even do not plan to go home.
（截止到本文发出后，这位医护人员依旧坚守在自己的岗位）*为保护受访人隐私，本文均为化名。
(As of the date of this article, the medical staff is still in his position) * To protect the privacy of the interviewee, this article is a pseudonym.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直击湖北：“围城”里的众生相丨特别报道。
Straight at Hubei: The Life of the City under Siege.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "直击湖北：“围城”里的众生相丨特别报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "生活还在继续。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; life continues.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
