疫区日记：从医护到患者，我的生死自救丨特别报道。
Diary of an epidemic area: from medical care to patients, my life and death self-help.
杜圆圆。
Du Yuan Yuan.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/杜圆圆编辑/单一根据预测，新冠肺炎或将在一周后，迎来新的爆发期。
Wen / Du Yuan Yuan editor / Single New Crown Pneumonia is forecast to usher in a new outbreak in a week's time.
从去年12月初被发现，到目前为止，疫情已经持续了两个月的时间。
Discovered since early December, the outbreak has lasted two months so far.
从始至终，医护人员一直是最前线的逆行者。
From start to finish, medical staff have been the frontline rebels.
武汉这座刚崛起的新一线城市，成了全中国最惨烈的战区。
Wuhan, the newly rising first-tier city, has become the most tragic war zone in all of China.
冲锋号吹响之后，一线的医护人员一直都在超负荷运转，病房爆满，物资紧缺，全国抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎的战斗仍在继续，医护人员都在用各自的方式，维持着这座城市的运转。
In the wake of the blast, front-line medical personnel have been overstretched, wards are full, supplies are scarce, the battle against the new coronavirus pneumonia is continuing across the country, and health-care workers are maintaining the city in their own way.
有战役，就有受伤。
Where there is battle, there is injury.
在战役初期，医护人员甚至在不知情的情况下，感染上了新冠肺炎；即便到了现在，他们依旧是承担风险最大的一批人。
In the early days of the campaign, health-care workers were unknowingly infected with pneumonia; even now, they are still the most at risk.
救他与自救在同时进行。
Saving him went hand in hand with self-help.
以下是四名被感染新型冠状病毒的医护人员参与“抗疫”的口述，讲述武汉最前线的实况。
The following is the oral statement of four medical personnel infected with the new coronavirus, telling the truth about the front line of Wuhan.
（经锌财经编辑整理）“和爱人被隔离长江两头，一切都会慢慢好起来”讲述人：武汉第七医院 叶医生于2020年1月30日确诊感染2003年，一场首发于广东的SARS病毒引发了全球关注，那年，我参加了高考。
Separated from my loved ones at both ends of the Yangtze River, everything is going to be fine.Dr. Ye, Wuhan seventh hospital, was diagnosed with infection on January 30, 2020. In 2003, a SARS virus first started in Guangdong caught the world's attention when I took the entrance examination.
当时，高考那两天要量体温才能进考场，有些考生身体不舒服，身边有医护和警卫守着。
At that time, the college entrance examination that two days to measure body temperature before entering the examination room, some candidates are uncomfortable, surrounded by medical and security guards.
高考结束后，我填报了武汉大学医学院，如今是武汉市第七医院的一名医生。
After the college entrance examination, I filled out Wuhan University School of Medicine, is now a doctor of Wuhan seventh hospital.
没有想到，在2020年这场以武汉为圆心的冠状病毒风暴中，我也成了漩涡中心的人。
Did not think that in 2020 this wuhan as the center of the coronavirus storm, I also became the center of the whirlpool.
2020年1月21日，武汉市第七医院被选为定点收治医院，医院随即进行环境整改，腾出所有病床，用以收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊和疑似病例。
On January 21, 2020, Wuhan City Hospital No. 7 was selected as a designated hospital, and the hospital immediately underwent environmental renovation to free up all beds for the treatment of confirmed and suspected cases of new coronavirus infection.
1月22号晚上10点开诊，来就诊的患者排队已经排到马路上，两个小时的时间，医院的病房就住满了。
At 10 p.m. on January 22, patients queued up on the road and within two hours the hospital ward was full.
面对这样的情状，作为一线医护人员，坦白说，内心也有几分紧张的，但是穿上工作服，我们更多的时候是忙碌，忙着和病毒作战，忙着和时间抢人。
Faced with this situation, as front-line medical personnel, frankly, there is also some tension, but put on the work clothes, we are more busy with the virus, busy with the time snatching people.
医护人员忙着和病毒作战1月24日，是万家灯火的除夕夜，也是我的不眠夜。
Health care workers busy fighting the virus January 24, is a bright New Year's Eve, but also my sleepless night.
这天是夜班，从下午5点到第二天早上8点半，一晚上接诊将近300名患者，近16个小时马不停蹄的作业，除了面临被感染的高风险，还有很多外人难以想见的困难。
It was the night shift, from 5 p.m. to 8: 30 a.m. the next morning, when nearly 300 patients were treated overnight and nearly 16 hours of uninterrupted operations, with the exception of the high risk of infection, which many outsiders find difficult to foresee.
医院的防护物资紧缺，大家身上的防护服在轮班结束前是不能脱下来的，那时候我们还没有经验，穿上防护服后，不吃不喝，憋了16个小时才去洗手间，第一次经历这样的事情，实在憋慌了，第二天我们就穿上尿不湿了。
We couldn't take off our protective clothing until the end of the shift. After wearing protective clothing, we didn't eat or drink, and we couldn't go to the bathroom for 16 hours.
大年初一的晚上，又是一场从天黑到天亮的战役，这16小时里我又接诊了几百名患者。
On New Year's Eve, there was another battle from dark to dawn, during which I treated hundreds more patients.
1月26日，大年初二，正在“备战”的我觉察到身体不适，CT影像呈阳性，我中招了。
January 26, New Year's Day, is "preparing for war" I was aware of the body discomfort, CT image is positive, I admitted.
为了避免成为传染源，向医院申请了隔离，1月30日，核酸测试结果出来，至此确认感染。
To avoid becoming a source of infection, the hospital applied for isolation, and on January 30, nucleic acid tests came out, confirming the infection.
我还是选择了回家隔离治疗，每天有很多患者来就诊，我觉得自己的情况还是比较乐观的，不想占用医院床位，选择了回家。
I still chose to go home isolation treatment, every day a lot of patients came to see the doctor, I still feel more optimistic about their situation, do not want to occupy hospital beds, chose to go home.
不只是我，我们医院已有十多位医护人员确诊，大家大多选择了在家隔离，建了个小群互相关怀、交流心得。
Not only I, our hospital has been confirmed by more than a dozen medical personnel, most of us chose isolation at home, built a small group of mutual care, exchange of experience.
在这里“病友”里，还有一个我最关心的人——我的爱人。
There is one more person I care about most in this house, my love.
她也是一名一线医护人员，也一样在工作中被感染，她从1月22号开始隔离治疗，1月30号确诊，已经属于重症了，只能在医院隔离治疗。
She, also a front-line medical worker, was also infected at work. She was quarantined on January 22 and confirmed on January 30. She is in a critical condition and can only be treated in isolation in a hospital.
22号送她去医院后，我们就一直没见面了。
We haven't seen each other since we took her to the hospital on the 22nd.
我在武昌区，她在硚口区，中间隔着长江，我过不去，她也回不来，就只能视频里见面。
I am in Wuchang District, she is in the Zhangkou District, between the Yangtze River, I can not cross, she can not go back, can only meet in video.
“没事，坚持治疗，就会好的，等她回家我们就能见上面了。
"It's all right, just stick to it, it'll be all right, and we'll see her when she gets home.
”我心里一直这样鼓励自己。
"I kept encouraging myself.
我们俩最庆幸的，都是在年底被感染的，刚上一年级的女儿一放寒假就被父母接回老家了，目前家里人都很健康。
The best thing for both of us was that we got infected at the end of the year. My first-grade daughter was picked up by her parents during the winter vacation.
高强度的工作和被感染的风险，对我们来说，都是本职工作。
High levels of work and the risk of infection are all part of our job.
唯一令我难过的，是频频出现的伤医事件，除夕那天的零点，我请同事帮拍了一张在办公室里拜年的照片，就是希望更多的人能够看到我们这种积极向上的心态，我们虽然在疫区，但是我们并不感到害怕，一切都会好起来的。
The only thing that saddened me was the frequency of medical injuries. At 0 on New Year's Eve, I asked my colleagues to help me take a picture of New Year's Eve in the office in the hope that more people would see our positive attitude.
我现在的精神状态已经好了很多，酸痛的症状也已经好转。
I am now in a much better state of mind, and the symptoms of pain have improved.
我给自己定了隔离期任务：按诊疗常规用药，保证饮食健康，把体温控制住。
I set myself the task of isolation: according to the routine treatment, to ensure a healthy diet, temperature control.
“为了让隔离服穿得久一点，我们用上了尿不湿”讲述人：武汉某医院外科医生 李昭 于2020年1月26日确诊感染1月17号上午，我在病房值班，门诊转过来一位腹部不适伴随低热的病人。
"In order to make the isolation clothing longer, we use urine not wet." Li Zhao, a surgeon at a Wuhan hospital, confirmed the infection on January 17, 2020. On the morning of January 17, I was on duty in the hospital ward, and the outpatient clinic turned to a patient with abdominal discomfort and low fever.
当时这位患者没有呼吸道的症状，他自己也没测过体温，我们就正常接收了这位病人。
The patient did not have respiratory symptoms, he did not take his own temperature, we received the patient normal.
那时候武汉疫情还没有爆发，社会新闻也比较平稳，所以我们普通病房没有做什么防护。
At that time, Wuhan epidemic has not broken out, social news is also relatively smooth, so we did not do anything to protect the general ward.
直到患者的胸片、胸部CT检查结果出来，我们才发现有问题，很有可能是潜伏期的肺炎患者。
It was not until the results of the chest and chest CT examination came out that we discovered that there was a problem, most likely the latent pneumonia.
我们赶紧做了隔离防护，暂停手术计划安排，否则更多医护有危险。
We quickly put the quarantine in place and put the operation schedule on hold, or more medical attention would be at risk.
我应该就是在那次接诊暴露之后感染的，一直潜伏到20多号。
I was supposed to have contracted it after that visit, and it was in the mid-20s.
我开始觉得身体有些不对劲，就立即上报了科室，采取自我隔离。
I began to feel something was wrong, immediately reported to the department, self-isolation.
我不敢回自己家，正好我父母在武汉的住处空着，我就一个人搬到了老两口的房子里，自我隔离。
I did not dare to go home, just when my parents in Wuhan empty, I moved to the old couple's house alone, self-segregation.
随后慢慢有了一些症状，先是咳嗽，后来就感到头痛和乏力。
Then I developed some symptoms, first a cough, then a headache and fatigue.
武汉的疫情和舆情大概就是在21、22号这两天爆发的，随着门急诊的肺炎、发热病例数快速增长，医院的物资紧缺，人员也不够。
Wuhan outbreak of the epidemic and public opinion is probably in the past two days, 21, 22, with emergency pneumonia, fever, rapid growth in the number of hospital supplies, and inadequate staff.
武汉市汉口医院/图源网络为了让一件隔离服能穿得久一点，有的医生护士朋友用上了尿不湿，或者不敢吃东西，要么就只吃一点压缩饼干，都是这样过来的。
Hankou Hospital / Map Source Network Some doctors and nurses friends used to urinate, or did not dare to eat, or eat only a little compressed biscuits, in order to make an isolated garment last longer.
其实我们一线是最早感觉到危机的，我和同事私底下聊天，觉得这次武汉的形势不太乐观。
In fact, our first line is the first to feel the crisis, my colleagues and I chat in private, think the situation in Wuhan is not very optimistic.
所以我早早地就在我们同学群里，叫他们在外地的都不要回武汉了。
So I early in our classmate group, so that they do not return to Wuhan in the field.
我们一家原本也准备坐车回湖南老家过年的，但在22号，那位疑似的患者确诊了。
Our family was also going to take a car back to Hunan Province for the Spring Festival, but on the 22nd, the suspected patient was diagnosed.
不仅我走不了，我也不敢送我家里人走，回去了，担心家里老乡可能有被感染的风险。
Not only can't I go, I dare not send my family away, go back, worry about the home townsman may be at risk of infection.
所以我们一家决定最后还是留在武汉，分开来过年。
So our family decided to stay in Wuhan in the end to celebrate the New Year separately.
我老婆和孩子两人一起过，我自己一个人在我父母家隔离。
My wife and my children lived together, and I was isolated at my parents' home alone.
除夕晚上，我们就打了个视频电话。
On New Year's Eve, we made a video call.
那时候，心里挺憋屈的。
At that time, my heart was stifling.
觉得自己有家不能回，有班不能上，不知道是不是真的感染了。
Feel oneself have a home cannot go back, have class cannot go up, do not know whether true infect.
26号还是确诊了，但说实话，回到医院，住进隔离病房，我心里反而真正踏实了。
26 or confirmed, but to tell the truth, back in the hospital, in the isolation ward, my heart is really comfortable.
好好休息和安心治疗后，没准等产生了抗体保护，可以回归岗位去一线更好地支援同事们。
After a good rest and peace of mind treatment, may have produced antibody protection, can return to the post to better support colleagues.
“爱人在前线一直没来看我，免得浪费防护服”讲述人：武汉汉口医院放射科主任、副主任医师、首批应急战队专家组成员 何嘉安于2020年1月22日确认感染我和同事们从1月上旬就开始奋战在武汉市抗击”不明原因肺炎“的前线。
"My loved ones never came to see me on the front lines to avoid wasting protective clothing." On January 22, 2020, He Jiaan, director of radiology at Wuhan Hankou Hospital and a member of the first group of emergency brigade specialists, confirmed that my colleagues and I had been at the forefront of the fight against "unexplained pneumonia" in Wuhan since early January.
从华南海鲜市场不明原因肺炎排查，到我们医院成为武汉三家定点医院之一，医院大厅人满为患，病毒肆虐，一切来得太突然、猛烈。
From the South China seafood market unknown causes pneumonia screening, to our hospital as one of Wuhan three designated hospitals, hospital hall full of viruses, all too sudden, violent.
我所在的CT科室是肺部检查的最前线，大概从1月中下旬开始，我和同事们差不多每天要接诊上百个病人，而其中有近半数都出现了肺部病毒感染的异样。
My CT department was at the forefront of lung screening, and since about mid-January, my colleagues and I have been seeing hundreds of patients a day, and nearly half of them have lung infection abnormalities.
因为当时武汉卫健委定论“有限人传人”，我们医护人员防护还不到位，直到医院检验科、药局等部门相继有医生出现了发热等病症，大家才意识到问题的严重性。
At that time, Wuhan Health Committee decided that "limited person-to-person", our medical staff protection is not in place, until the hospital laboratory, pharmacy and other departments have had a fever, and other symptoms, until everyone realized the seriousness of the problem.
1月21日晚上，我开始发烧、干咳。
On the evening of January 21, I began to have a fever and a dry cough.
出于警觉，22号我在自己科室做了CT，拿到CT影像的瞬间，我就知道自己感染了，这些天实在是看了太多相似的病患影像。
Out of vigilance, 22 I did CT in their own department, the moment I got the CT image, I know I was infected, these days is too much to see the same patient images.
当时就上报了院办，作为疑似病例采取了隔离措施。
At that time, the institution was reported and isolated as a suspected case.
参与新型肺炎救治的医护人员26日，我的核酸检测结果出来了，阳性，被正式确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
Participation in the treatment of the new pneumonia on the 26, my nucleic acid test results came out, positive, was officially diagnosed as the new coronavirus pneumonia patients.
进入隔离病房的第一件事，就是给老家的亲戚打电话，我爱人在医院任重症监护室（ICU）主任，也是副主任医师，我病倒了，而她还一直奋战在前线，我们家中还有13岁的女儿无人照顾。
The first thing I did when I entered the isolation ward was to call relatives back home. My wife was director and deputy chief physician at the intensive care unit (ICU) in the hospital.
电话里，我托亲戚把孩子带回老家。
On the phone, I asked my relatives to take the baby home.
1月24日，大年三十，这是我们一家三口第一个无法团聚的春节，孩子在老家，我在医院病房内隔离，我爱人在病房外看诊。
January 24, about 30, this is our family can not reunite the first Spring Festival, the children in my hometown, I isolation in the hospital ward, my wife outside the ward to see.
我们夫妻虽在同一家医院，但说来隔离这一个星期，她一直没来看我，她说：“免得浪费一件防护服“。
Although we were in the same hospital, she did not come to see me for a week in isolation. "Don't waste a suit," she said.
我不怪她，因为医院的防护服实在紧缺，和大家在网络上、新闻上看到的一样，我的好多同事都是尽量控制自己不吃不喝、不上厕所，坚持一天8小时穿着防护服，脱一次就少一件。
I don't blame her because the hospital's protective clothing is in short supply. As you can see on the Internet and on the news, many of my colleagues try to control their eating, drinking, not using the toilet, wearing protective clothing for eight hours a day, and taking off one at a time.
汉口医院大概有300多防疫一线医护人员，他们中的大多数投入战斗，就没回过家，累了在医院歇歇脚，要么就住在医院附近的宾馆。
Hankou Hospital has about 300 frontline health care workers, most of whom have not returned home since the battle, are tired and take a rest in the hospital, or live in a hotel near the hospital.
我目前和一位同事住在一起，院里目前确诊感染的医护人员一共5人，其中我是重症，体感上目前还在反复的高烧、咳嗽，上午要打激素，下午能退烧，晚上有时候体温会反弹升高，这个病没有特效药，目前全靠硬抗和一些辅助治疗。
I am living with a co-worker who has been diagnosed with a total of 5 staff. I am suffering from severe illness. I suffer from recurrent fever, cough, hormonal attacks in the morning, fever in the afternoon, and sometimes a rise in body temperature at night.
空闲的时候，我就和女儿通话，我们从不谈论病情。
In my spare time, I talk to my daughter. We never talk about the disease.
我的肺部感染越来越严重了，还不敢告诉女儿和家里老人，看着院办给员工家属的信，我也会默默流泪。
My lung infection became more and more serious, I did not dare to tell my daughter and the elderly family, look at the hospital to the staff's family letter, I would also silently tears.
在这场疫情中，也有不少的企业为医护人员提供了相应的保障政策，例如阿里和支付宝，为医护人员设立了“健康保障金”，不幸感染新型冠状肺炎，也会为我们提供多一层的保障。
In this epidemic, a number of enterprises to provide health care workers with appropriate policies, such as Ali and pay Bao, set up a "health insurance fund" for health-care workers, unfortunately infected with the new coronary pneumonia will also provide us with a layer of protection.
现在，医院里内外妇儿耳鼻喉口等都进入发热门诊，坐诊的有将要退休的老主任，有刚上岗的年轻医师，有放下手术刀的外科专家，大家没有时间等待转化和适应，却出色完成了任务。
Now, inside and outside the hospital, women and children's ears, nose and throat into the fever clinic, sitting in consultation with retiring directors, young doctors, surgical experts put down the scalpel, people do not have time to wait for conversion and adaptation, but have done a wonderful job.
我每天在医院群里、电视上看着大家奋斗的身影，也希望自己能早日康复加入到战斗中。
Every day in the hospital group, on television to see everyone struggling figure, but also hope that they can recover early to join the battle.
“对不起爸妈，今年还没和你们吃过一顿饭”讲述人：武汉市某医院规培医师 李晓晶于2020年1月25日确认感染今年1月份以来，感冒发烧咳嗽的病人越来越多，最初我们都以为这和往年一样是流感高发季节，没想到却是一场突如其来、一场猛烈的病毒来袭。
"Sorry Mom and Dad, I haven't had a meal with you this year." Li Xiaoming, a doctor in a Wuhan hospital, confirmed on January 25, 2020 that the number of patients with fever and cough has increased since January.
一月份我们医院接收了三名新型冠状病毒肺炎疑似病例，由于当时医护人员的防护措施还不到位，而我也在这个过程中不幸感染了。
Three suspected cases of coronavirus pneumonia were admitted to our hospital in January, and I was unlucky enough to get infected in the process because health care workers were not in place at the time.
1月19日晚上回家我开始发高烧，体温39.5，当即在家进行了隔离，1月25日，大年初一，中国人新年的第一天，我的核酸检测结果出来了，被正式确诊感染了新型冠状病毒。
On January 25, the first day of the New Year, the first day of the Chinese New Year, my nucleic acid test results came out and I was officially confirmed to be infected with the new coronavirus.
确诊后，我一直没敢告诉家中的父母，怕他们二老担心，谎称要在医院加班，这个春节不能陪伴他们的不只是我，还有我弟弟，他也是一名前线抗击疫情的医疗工作者，并且所在的放射科通常接触潜在感染患者，更加“危险”。
After the diagnosis, I didn't dare to tell my parents that they were worried that they would work overtime at the hospital. It wasn't just me, but my brother. He was also a front-line health worker fighting the epidemic, and the radiology department was more "dangerous" because of its frequent contact with potential infections.
我患病隔离期间，弟弟常常和我视频通话，鼓励我，视频里看着他，作为姐姐很心疼，前两天他持续工作了36个小时，即便是轮班休息，他住在医院附近的酒店也24小时开机，他说：现在病人来看诊的多，自己随时待命，”战友“需要的时候可以随时回去工作。
When I was in quarantine, my brother used to talk to me on video, encouraging me to watch him, and it hurt so much to watch him as my sister, he continued to work 36 hours the previous two days.
一线的医护人员像弟弟这样的医护工作者有很多，我在隔离期间看到好多护士同事24小时不睡，巡视病房，隔离期间家属不能入院探望，病人们的衣食起居都是护士们来照料，住院大楼1到10楼都被征用了，一个医生护士可能就要照料几十号病人，而且是时刻冒着被病毒侵袭的风险，好多同事的手因为反复洗手、涂抹消毒液，要么肿了要么布满红疹划痕。
First-line health care workers such as my brother are plentiful. During the isolation period, I saw nursing colleagues sleeping around the clock, visiting wards, families not being admitted to hospital during isolation, patients being requisitioned on the 1st to 10th floors of the hospital building, a doctor and nurse may have to take care of dozens of patients at constant risk of infection.
我确诊感染的消息还是没瞒住，大年初六，老公说漏嘴了，那天我爸和我视频，我看到眼泪在他眼里打转，缓缓地问了我一句后不后悔当医生？我开玩笑说，别人不当医生也会被感染，有什么好后悔的，这工作带给我成就感，我愿意。
I confirmed the infection of the news is not hidden, about the sixth year, my husband said a leak, that day my father and I video, I saw tears in his eyes, slowly asked me a sentence of regret when a doctor? I joked that other people should not be infected with doctors, there is nothing to regret, this work brings me a sense of accomplishment, I would like.
但心里实话讲，我也害怕，父母年迈，我自己的宝宝才五个月大，但救死扶伤是一身白大褂赋予的使命，看到队友们还在辛苦战斗，我也想早日康复，再去战斗，希望病毒驱散，我和弟弟、父母一家人也早日团聚。
But to tell the truth, I am afraid, my parents are old, my own baby is only five months old, but to save lives is a white coat mission, to see my teammates are still fighting hard, I also want to recover, fight again, hope the virus dissipate, my brother, parents and family will soon be reunited.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫区日记：从医护到患者，我的生死自救丨特别报道。
Diary of an epidemic area: from medical care to patients, my life and death self-help.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫区日记：从医护到患者，我的生死自救丨特别报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; epidemic area diary: From medical care to patients, my life and death self-help, special report & quot;;
var msg_desc = "感染新冠之后，我从救人到救己。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I saved my life after I infected my new crown.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
