饭圈救援2020。
Dinner ring rescue 2020.
炜铖、伊文、呈杰。
Xiancheng, Yiwen, Ching Jie.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
王源粉丝联合应援博公布的财务明细里，最小的一笔收入是0.12元。
Wang Yuanfan joint response to the financial details published by the Bo, the smallest income is 0. 12 yuan.
金泰亨吧公布了物资到达每一家医院的时间，最晚一批于1月26日19点11分送达武汉大学人民医院。
Kim Tae Heng announced the arrival time of the supplies to each hospital, the latest of which arrived at the Wuhan University People's Hospital at 19: 11 on January 26.
在武汉疫情的支援行动中，饭圈成为一股透明、高效的民间力量，一套机制在背后运转。
Wuhan in the support of the epidemic, the rice circle into a transparent, efficient civilian force, a set of mechanisms behind the operation.
···············❶8立方米、740公斤、240箱捐款公告刚发布一小时，总金额就跃过了31万。
An hour after the announcement of 8 cubic meters, 740 kg, and 240 cases of donation, the total amount jumped by 310,000.
2715人、2716人、2717人……前来捐款的粉丝仍然不断，王一博粉丝后援会“紧急”决定，捐款通道必须关掉——钱太多，不一定能买到那么多的医疗物资。
Fans of 2,715, 2,716, 2,717... are still pouring in donations, and Wang's fan aid group has decided "urgently" that the donation channel must be turned off - too much money, not necessarily enough medical supplies.
这是1月23日的傍晚。
It was the evening of 23 January.
三天前，王一博后援会管理群里正在讨论，是不是该向武汉捐点什么。
Three days ago, Mr. Wang was discussing whether he should donate something to Wuhan.
当晚，钟南山接受央视采访，证实新型冠状病毒存在人传人。
That evening, Zhong Nan Shan accepted CCTV interview, confirmed the existence of a new coronavirus person-to-person.
有人提议捐款，但她们当时还没有看到任何一家慈善机构公开募捐。
A donation was proposed, but they had not seen any charity make a public donation at the time.
于是她们决定自家集资，由后援会购买物资寄往武汉。
So they decided to raise money at home and send supplies to Wuhan.
集资完成后，坏消息传来，提前联系好的口罩厂家告诉后援会，全部库存被征用，她们预定的10万只口罩泡汤了。
After the fund-raising was completed, bad news came, and the mask-maker, which had been contacted in advance, told the committee that the entire stock had been requisitioned and that the 100,000 masks they had ordered were ruined.
管理群里炸开了锅，手上的31万仿佛烫手山芋，怎么花出去？有粉丝提议，干脆把钱捐给红十字会吧。
The management group blew open the pot, 310,000 hands as if hot potato, how to spend? Some fans suggested, simply donate money to the Red Cross.
后援会管理静静坚决拒绝，捐赠公告上写明了要捐物资，就一定要做到。
The DAC management has steadfastly refused, and the announcement that donations were to be made had to be done.
群里一共18个人，分为两组。
There were 18 people in the group, divided into two groups.
由于物资紧缺，一组有16位管理分头联络物资，另一组则负责对接医院和物流，两方同时推进。
Owing to the shortage of supplies, one group had 16 contacts for management and the other for docking hospitals and logistics, both of which were advancing simultaneously.
从除夕到初二，大家每天更新消息。
From New Year's Eve to the second day of junior high school, we update daily.
身在国外的艾瑞斯打了几十通电话，找遍了批发采购平台上的医疗厂家，却总是在凌晨三四点失望地睡去。
Iris, who was abroad, made dozens of phone calls and searched the wholesale procurement platform for medical manufacturers, but always fell asleep at three or four in the morning.
数十家厂商，有的库存被征用，有的已经放假，还有的产品不符合医院使用标准。
Dozens of manufacturers, some have been requisitioned, some have had holidays, others do not meet the standards for hospital use.
24日，艾瑞斯在粉丝群里找到了新线索。
On the 24th, Iris found new clues in the fan base.
一个粉丝提供消息，自家邻居在3M公司上班，可以帮忙搭线。
One fan told us that his neighbor, who works for 3M, can help build the line.
艾瑞斯联系上3M武汉经销商，却被告知，口罩都已被征用。
Iris contacted a 3M dealer in Wuhan and was told that the masks had been requisitioned.
经3M介绍，艾瑞斯又找到厦门、山东两家工厂。
Through 3M introduction, Iris found Xiamen, Shandong two factories.
老板拿出采购合同，艾瑞斯和静静再三查看，多加了4项要求：厂商要提供明确到时刻的交货时间、采购费用明细、法人代表身份证复印件以及营业执照。
The owner took out the contract, and Iris and Silence looked at it again and again, adding four more requirements: clear lead times, a breakdown of the purchase cost, a copy of the legal representative's identity card, and a business license.
厂家库存不够，老板临时召回员工，还叫上亲戚朋友，30多人在大年初一加班整天。
The factory stock is not enough, the boss recalled the staff temporarily, also called on relatives and friends, more than 30 people in the New Year's Day overtime.
最终，厦门厂商提供500个防疫面罩和7000对替换滤芯，山东厂商提供200件防疫服和200副防护眼罩。
In the end, Xiamen manufacturer provided 500 epidemic prevention masks and 7,000 replacement filter cores, Shandong manufacturer provided 200 immunization suits and 200 sets of eye protection.
与此同时，静静已经在向中华少年儿童慈善救助基金会求助，她和儿慈会的工作人员相熟。
Meanwhile, Quiet has been turning to the Children's Charity Foundation of China, which she knows well.
2019年，王一博成为中华儿慈会专项基金爱心大使，儿慈会的工作人员主动找到后援会，希望粉丝们向他们的公益项目捐钱。
In 2019, Wang became the CCCS Charitable Ambassador for the Children's Charitable Fund, and the staff of CCCS volunteered to come to the committee and ask fans to donate money to their charity work.
半年多时间里，后援会为儿慈会的项目集资超过30万。
For more than half a year, the organization raised more than 300,000 funds for CCF projects.
儿慈会工作人员告诉静静，微公益和红十字会有合作，后援会只需向红十字会捐款，由红会来联络物资，并分发到武汉各医院。
CCF staff told Quiet that there was cooperation between the Microcommonweal and the Red Cross and that the latter would simply contribute to the Red Cross, which would contact the supplies and distribute them to Wuhan hospitals.
但后援会联络医院时，一家医院的医生委婉告诉她们，这样中途会耽误一点时间。
But when the committee contacted the hospital, a doctor at one of the hospitals tactfully told them it would take them a while to make the trip.
后援会决心要直接捐给医院。
The aid committee is determined to donate it directly to hospitals.
之后，儿慈会将武汉同济医院介绍给了静静。
Afterwards, the children's charity will Wuhan Tongji Hospital introduced to the quiet.
同济医院答复说，谢谢你们的物资，但是快递已经进不来了。
Tongji Hospital replied, "Thank you for your supplies, but express delivery is no longer available."
静静打电话问顺丰、京东，在各大物流公司公众号后台提问，物资能不能进武汉？答案都是否定。
Quietly call Shunfeng, Jingdong, in the major logistics companies public backstage question, materials can enter Wuhan? The answer is no.
25日，中国邮政、顺丰、京东等10家物流企业宣布，将开通全国各地驰援武汉救援物资的绿色通道，但优先向公益机构、医疗机构、企事业单位等开放，暂不接受个人捐赠物资。
On the 25th, 10 logistics companies, including China Post, Shunfeng and Jingdong, announced that they would open green channels across the country to help Wuhan rescue materials, but would give priority to public welfare institutions, medical institutions, enterprises and institutions.
当天，静静看到小米公司的微博：1月24日凌晨，小米捐赠医疗物资进入武汉。
On the same day, quietly saw millet company microblogging: January 24, millet donated medical supplies into Wuhan.
静静想，小米能进去，那我们是不是也能跟着小米进去？她打开通讯录，找到了之前曾合作过的小米集团工作人员——王一博是Redmi手机代言人，后援会曾受邀参加其新品发布会。
She opened the address book and found the millet staff she had worked with before - Wang Yibo was the spokesman for Redmi, and the group had been invited to its new product launch.
小米答应得很痛快，第二天上午就帮忙联系到京东物流的在地货车，承诺免费将货物从厦门运到武汉同济医院。
Millet promised to be very happy, the next morning to help contact Jingdong Logistics in the local lorry, promised free goods from Xiamen to Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
26日中午12点，8立方米、740公斤、240箱、价值28万的物资，准时从厦门出发，发往武汉。
On December 26, at 12 noon, 8 cubic meters, 740 kilograms, 240 boxes of materials worth 280,000 tons, left Xiamen on time for Wuhan.
四天后，物资抵达武汉，之后，却迟迟没有被签收。
Four days later, supplies arrived in Wuhan, after which it was not signed.
静静询问物流方，回复说：特殊时期，速度比较慢。
Quietly ask the logistics party, reply: Special period, the speed is slow.
发微信问同济医院，也一直没有得到回应。
A letter to Tongji Hospital remained unanswered.
直到1月31日，环球网的官方微博@了王一博粉丝后援会，静静点开图片，看到纸板箱整齐码在医院门口，每箱都贴着标识：”众志成城，抗击病毒！武汉加油，湖北加油！此批物资由王一博后援会捐助。
Until Jan. 31, the official Weibo World Wide Web blog @ WANG Yibo fan aid committee, quietly opened the picture, see cardboard boxes neatly numbered in the hospital door, each box labeled: "into the city, fight the virus! Wuhan Come on, Hubei refueling! This batch of materials donated by Wang Yibo.
“这时她终于确认，她们成功了。
"Then she confirmed that they had succeeded.
环球网的微博❷公开透明是行事规则饭圈累积的能量在武汉疫情中释放。
The World Wide Web micro-blogging open transparency is the rule of the food ring accumulation of energy released in Wuhan epidemic.
不完全统计，肖战粉丝一共捐出256万元。
incomplete statistics, Xiao Zhan fans donated 2.56 million yuan.
王源粉丝联合应援博募集了40万元，已经落实20万个口罩和15万只医用手套。
Wang Yuanyuan fans have collected 400,000 yuan and have secured 200,000 masks and 150,000 medical gloves.
焉栩嘉后援会集资了20万元，给武汉捐去20万只口罩、140台紫外线消毒车和280支灯管。
It raised 200,000 yuan and donated 200,000 masks, 140 ultraviolet disinfectors and 280 light tubes to Wuhan.
阿云嘎后援会甚至还捐了4台分子筛制氧机和7台脉搏检测仪。
The group even donated four molecular sieve oxygen machines and seven pulse detectors.
发布这些壮观的数字之前，后援会们都经历了重重难题。
Before the spectacular figures were released, the aid groups had a lot of problems.
在一个物资抢购群里，几十名成员都来自各家后援会。
In a shootout, dozens of its members are from aid groups.
金泰亨吧的TATA从中国医药网拉了一个医疗用品厂商清单，王俊凯后援会的美美发动认识的粉丝发朋友圈，要到了一个春节复工的厂商名单。
Kam Tai Hang's TATA pulled a list of medical supplies from the Chinese medical network, and Wang Junkai's fans sent out to a list of manufacturers returning to work during the Spring Festival.
何洛洛和焉栩嘉CP后援会的小z联系了三四十家医疗器材厂，好不容易联系上一家有口罩库存的，老板开价5块，比市场价高上4倍。
Holloway and Yan's CP-Z contacted 30 or 40 medical equipment factories and managed to contact an inventory of masks. The boss offered $5, four times higher than the market price.
小z告诉厂家，她是要捐给武汉的。
Xiao z told the factory that she would donate it to Wuhan.
老板回，管你捐不捐，五块一个，不还价。
Boss back, regardless of whether you donate, five yuan one, do not counter-offer.
有的厂家迟迟不给口罩质检书，小z从晚上等到第二天下午三点，最后发现口罩不适合医用。
Some manufacturers do not give mask quality certificate, small z from the evening until the next 3: 00 p.m., finally found that the mask is not suitable for medical use.
翟潇闻后援会管理苹果联系上一家医院供应商，但对方拒绝平台交易，坚持微信汇款，苹果担心受骗，只好作罢。
Mr Zhai managed Apple's approach to a hospital supplier, but Apple, fearing it would be tricked, refused to accept the platform deal and insisted on sending micromail.
后援会所有的成果和过程都在社交媒体上清晰呈现。
All of the Committee's results and processes are clearly presented on social media.
王源粉丝联合应援博公布的财务明细里，最小的一笔收入是0.12元，来自粉丝支付宝转入。
In the financial details released by Wangyuan fans, the smallest income was 0. 12 yuan, which came from the transfer of Fan PayPal.
金泰亨吧公布了物资到达每一家医院的时间，最晚一批于1月26日19点11分送达武汉大学人民医院。
Kim Tae Heng announced the arrival time of the supplies to each hospital, the latest of which arrived at the Wuhan University People's Hospital at 19: 11 on January 26.
金泰亨吧公布的物资到达每一家医院的时间公开透明是饭圈的行事规则。
Kim Tae Heng announced that the time of arrival of the material at each hospital is open and transparent is the rice circle's rule of conduct.
一旦公布账目不及时，或者查账方式不明晰，质疑声马上就会冒出来：管理们是去买海景房了吗？“海景房”是饭圈一个流传已久的梗——2015年，渡边麻友应援会发起总选举集资，后来应援会被爆出贪污，金额超过150万元。
Once the accounts are not published in a timely manner, or if the manner in which the accounts are checked is unclear, doubts will arise: Are managers going to buy a sea view room, a long-standing stumbling block in the rice ring - In 2015, Ma-Yo Watanabe raised funds for the general election and AAR was later found guilty of corruption amounting to over $1.5 million.
还有传言流出，应援会管理拿这笔钱购入了一套海景房。
Rumor has it that AAR managed to buy a seascape with the money.
金泰亨吧的管理TATA打了一个比方：这相当于一个匾额挂在大门口，一切从偶像的利益出发，一切从粉丝的利益出发。
Kim Tahern's management of the TATA is a metaphor: this is the equivalent of a plaque hanging in front of the gate, everything in the interest of idols, everything from the interests of fans.
反之，独裁的后援会管理随时可能被粉丝轰下台。
Conversely, autocratic ASCI management could be thrown out of office by fans at any time.
一位接受采访的后援会管理说，她的上一届管理曾和一位粉丝发生口角，把对方踢出了官方粉丝群，但因为私人恩怨踢人，是集体制定的“群规“中明令禁止的行为。
One aid group official interviewed said her previous management squabbled with a fan and kicked the other out of the official fan base, but that kicks were a collective "crowd rule" forbidden by collective rules.
粉丝们愤怒地对后援会进行围攻：你不能觉得老子就是法！很快，这位管理在炮火中主动辞职。
Fans raged at the aid committee: You can't think of Lao Tzu as the law! Soon, the manager resigned under fire.
成为一名粉丝满意的后援会管理并不简单。
It's not easy to be a fan-satisfied DAC manager.
苹果本科就读于中国最好的商学院，尚未硕士毕业，就收到一家互联网巨头的offer。
Apple, one of China's best business schools, received an offer from an internet giant before it graduated with a master's degree.
2019年12月，苹果通过竞选上任，而竞选的第一步是， 投简历。
In December 2019, Apple took office through a campaign that began with a CV.
她调出自己的求职简历，把实习经历那一栏改成自己的追星史。
She calls up her resume and turns her internship into her own starstruck history.
苹果有近十段互联网公司实习经历，但追星经验相较也不遑多让。
Apple has nearly ten Internet companies internship experience, but the star-chasing experience is no less impressive.
她从2008年开始追星，光是给翟潇闻开站子就开了两个，一个用在比赛时打投，另一个主要是出道后打钱和应援。
She has been chasing stars since 2008, opening just two for Zhai Xiaoxiwen, one for the game, the other for the post-season money and help.
简历审核通过，接下来是一个月的实习期，期间她独立完成了一次媒体应援。
The curriculum vitae pass, followed by a month of internship, during which she completed an independent media assistance.
在实习报告里，她严肃地写下：我的能力和管理位置相匹配。
In her internship report, she wrote gravely: "My abilities match my management position."
实习期既满，粉丝们投票决定最终的管理人选。
When the internship is over, fans vote for the final manager.
第一轮投票在由后援会各组和散粉组织组成的参议群里进行，和她同时竞聘的另一位候选人胜出。
The first round of voting was conducted in a panel of DAC groups and pollinators, with another candidate competing with her winning team.
接着，群里又商议，这样不够公开，要投就要公投。
The group then agreed that it would not be open enough to vote in a referendum.
当天下午，后援会官方微博发布公告，只要提供超话等级和集资记录，证明你是翟潇闻唯粉，就可以参与后援会换届投票。
In the afternoon, the official DAC microblog announced that if you provide hyperlinks and fund-raising records to prove that you are Zhai Xiaoxiao, then you can vote for the new DAC.
很快，公投群里涌进来两百多个粉丝。
Soon, more than 200 fans poured into the referendum.
当晚，公投开始。
That evening, the referendum began.
首先发布竞选人的实习报告，然后进入第二个环节：答辩。
First release the candidate's internship report, and then move on to the second link: defense.
“怎么调节官方后援会和民间粉丝组织之间的关系？””官方不是完全的领导，而是应该向民间组织提供帮助。
"How to regulate the relationship between the official DAC and civil society fan groups?" "The official leadership is not complete, but should help civil society organizations.
““你之前的生活或追星经历，对你担任管理有什么帮助？”“我是学市场营销的，很懂得推广营销这一套。
How did your previous life or stellar experience help you in your managementI majored in marketing and knew how to promote marketing.
”“你认为如何建立起后援会的信任？”“一是做好每件小事，二是吸取建议多和粉丝沟通，三是财务方面要尽量公开透明。
"How do you think you can build trust in the DAC?" "One is to do every little thing well, the other is to listen to advice and communicate with fans, and third, to be as open and transparent as possible about finance.
”投票完毕，苹果的支持率超过规定的2/3，成功当选。
After the vote, Apple won by more than two-thirds of the vote.
上任后，为了财务明晰，苹果特意换了一个双卡双待的手机，用新手机号注册了一个后援会专用的支付宝账号。
When it took office, Apple purposely replaced a dual-card phone for financial clarity, using its new phone number to sign up for a dedicated paycheck account.
年初，翟潇闻登上一本时尚杂志的电子刊封面，粉丝为此集资，苹果的这个支付宝账号的当月流水超过了200万。
Earlier this year, fans raised money for Zhai Xiaoxian, who appeared on the cover of an electronic magazine for which Apple had more than two million paid-up accounts that month.
1月19日晚上，苹果对着全体粉丝做了一次语音直播。
On the night of Jan. 19, Apple gave a live audio broadcast to all fans.
她先是回顾了这段时间后援会的工作，叮嘱大家：明天一定要买电子刊！然后邀请了各个官方组织的负责人一起连麦，很像是一次直播问政，直播里，粉丝们问的最多的问题是：后援会之后的工作重点是什么?苹果回答，接下来要回归到日常的数据控评和反黑净化，还要做好上海场演唱会的应援。
Then she invited the heads of various official organizations to join McGraw, much like a live question: What's the focus after the show? Apple replied, going back to routine data reviews and anti-black cleansing, and helping with the concert in Shanghai.
那时她没想到，演唱会将因为疫情延期，而后援会的下一步工作，是为武汉捐款52800元，并捐赠1000副护目镜。
At the time, she did not expect the concert to be postponed, and the next step for the committee was to donate 52,800 yuan to Wuhan and 1,000 pairs of goggles.
❸“这种风气裹挟着圈子里面所有的人”曾经，公众对粉丝做应援的印象是“排面”。
Zen "this kind of atmosphere intimidates all the people in the circle" once, the public made the impression that the fan is "platoon".
2017年王俊凯18岁生日时，粉丝为他策划了“海陆空”应援：认领了18只海洋濒危动物、在全球包下5000块大荧幕、在南纬60°的天空买下18颗星星，连起来是“WJK”的字样。
When Wang Junkai turned 18 in 2017, fans plotted "land, sea and air" support for him: 18 marine endangered species, 5,000 large screens globally, and 18 stars linked by the word "WJK" in a sky 60 degrees south.
应援出圈了，也带来争议，有路人评价：干嘛把钱浪费在这上面？做公益不一样，公众既能理解，也会支持。
Why waste your money on thisIt's not the same as doing the commonweal, the public can understand and support it.
武汉疫情一来，豆瓣几个小组就开始陆续搬运各个后援会的捐赠报告，网友在贴子下面点评：夸夸XX、XX是捐的最多的吧、就差XX没捐了。
Wuhan outbreak, several groups began to move Doubane donation reports, netizens in the post comments: praise XX, XX is the largest donation, on the XX did not donate.
“这种风气裹挟着这个圈子里面所有的人，不管是管理层还是下面的普通粉丝，大家都觉得我是一个追星女孩，我就得做。
"It's a culture in which everyone in the community, from management to fans below, thinks I'm a starstruck girl and I have to do it.
”苹果说。
"said the apple.
除夕那天，“追星女孩 募捐”登上热搜。
On New Year's Eve, the "Star Girl Fundraiser" boarded the hot search.
武汉疫情微公益的捐款榜单上，前50位都被各家后援会包揽。
Wuhan epidemic of micro-public welfare contributions to the list, the top 50 are all covered by the aid committees.
营销号们发起了对追星女孩整齐的夸奖：“用炙热的心追星，也用最热血的心公益”、“太给爱豆争气了”。
Marketers have launched a neat praise for the star-chasing girls: "hot heart chasing stars, but also with the most blood of the public welfare," "too love pea qi."
苹果感受到一种激励：就该给那些瞧不起追星女孩的键盘侠们看看。
Apple feels inspired: it's time to look at the keyboard warriors who look down on starstruck girls.
粉丝也着急，不停地催后援会，怎么还不做？同样是在除夕，小z看到了别家后援会发出的捐赠公告，但这时候，她还没找到物资。
Fans were also in a hurry, urging the committee not to do so.Also on New Year's Eve, Zz saw a donation announcement from another aid group, but by this time she had not found supplies.
“别家能找到，我为什么找不到？肯定是我不够努力。
"Why can't I find it? It must be I don't try hard enough.
“凌晨三四点，她迷迷糊糊地睡了过去，半小时后，又莫名其妙地醒来。
"At three or four in the morning she fell into a daze and woke up half an hour later, bewildered.
醒来第一件事，她摸来手机，看有没有厂商回复消息。
First thing when she woke up, she touched her phone to see if there was any reply from the manufacturer.
后来，小z的策略是“捐款捐物两手抓”，先捐款，“给粉丝们吃定心丸”，不能让粉丝们看到别家都捐了，自家却没动作。
Later, Zi's strategy was to give money to both hands. Donate to "give your fans some reassurance" instead of letting their fans see that others are donating, but not their own.
截止2月4日18：30，武汉疫情微公益的捐款榜单王源粉丝联合应援博发出捐赠通告后，热门转发说：“饭随偶像”、“每一个困难时期，王源粉丝都和大家携手共进。
As of Feb. 4, 18: 30, Wuhan epidemic micro-public welfare donations list Wang Yuan fan list of joint response to Bo issued a donation notice, the popular forwarded: "Food with idols", "every difficult period, Wang Yuan fans have joined hands with you
这份源自王源的爱和担当，始终如一”。
This comes from the love and responsibility of Wang Yuan, consistent. "
偶像并不在场，但在粉丝做公益的过程里被反复提及。
Idol is not present, but is mentioned repeatedly in the process of doing the public good by fans.
粉丝相信，公益能为偶像的事业助力。
Fans believe that the common good can help the cause of idols.
慈善机构也在学习利用粉丝的力量。
Charities are also learning to tap into the power of fans.
2016年，王俊凯全国地方站联盟，和中华思源工程扶贫基金会的一个助学项目展开合作，当时，这个项目还未被饭圈熟知。
In 2016, the Wang Junkai National Association of Local Stations collaborated with a student aid project of the China Siyuan Project Poverty Alleviation Foundation, which was not yet well known in the rice circle.
四年后，这个项目的微博一天就和好几个站子互动，从爱豆、演员到兵乓球选手、电视剧角色，有粉丝估算总数能达到几百个。
Four years later, the program's microblog interacts with several sites a day, from beans and actors to BangBang players to TV characters, with an estimated total of several hundred fans.
当蔡徐坤宣布要去海南儋州进行扶贫调研后，在6小时内，粉丝就攻陷了当地土特产鸭蛋的购买链接，现货卖完后，4000箱的预售也被席卷一空。
When Cai announced that he was going to Danzhou Danzhou to do poverty alleviation surveys, within six hours, fans captured the local specialty duck eggs purchase link, after the spot sold out, 4000 boxes were also sold out.
对蔡徐坤国王街82号站的小街来说，这是她们向官方释放出的积极信号。
For the small street at 82 King Street, Cai Xukun, it was a positive signal to the authorities.
❹小叉车和叉烧包1月29日晚，火神山、雷神山医院建设实况直播上线。
Cottle forklift truck and barbecue package January 29 night, the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan hospital construction live live on line.
饭圈的逻辑也开始在这里渗透。
The logic of the rice circle began to permeate here.
工地上的小型黄色挖掘机，被叫做“小黄”，小型蓝色挖掘机，叫“小蓝”，小型叉车，叫“叉酱”，小型铲车叫“铲酱”，混凝土搅拌车，叫“呕泥酱”。
Small yellow excavators on the site, known as "rhubarb," small blue excavators, called "small blue," small forklift, called "fork sauce," small forklift called "shovel sauce," concrete mixer car, called "mud paste.
小叉车的微博超话有4.8万粉丝，一度是饭圈超话榜的第一名。
Small forklift micro-blog superphone has 48,000 fans, was once the number one food circle super-list.
它的粉丝叫做“叉烧包”。
Its fans are known as "barbecue."
有人在这个超话里发帖问：大家原本是谁的粉丝？800多条回复里，点赞数最多的回答是“博君一肖”，其次是“德云女孩”。
Someone posted a post in this parable asking: Who are your fans? Of the more than 800 responses, the most frequently answered was "Bojun Xiao," followed by "De Yun Girl."
粉丝把小叉车拟人化画成漫画，又把监工直播里小叉车的画面单独截出来，做成小叉车的“直拍”。
Fans personalize the forklift into comics and cut out the images of the forklift in the live broadcast, creating a "straight shot" of the forklift.
控评模板诞生了：顶级流量小叉车，工地宝贝小叉车，工地最靓小叉车。
Review template was born: top flow small forklift, site baby forklift, site most beautiful small forklift.
这些评论在营销号下方和监工直播间刷屏。
The reviews are filmed below the marketing number and in the supervisor's studio.
一个名叫“叉酱数据站”的账号做了一份教程，教大家怎么在央视设置的直播助力榜为小叉车投票。
An account called "Fork Sauce Data Station" has made a tutorial on how to cast your vote for a small forklift on CCTV's live help list.
“你不投，我不投，小叉何时能出头？”火神山、雷神山医院建设实况直播助力榜CP粉小z也是收看小叉车直播的几千万名观众之一。
"If you don't, I don't, when will the fork come out?" CP Powder, a live feed from Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain Hospital, was one of tens of millions watching the live forklift.
除夕下午，小z终于找到一批能发货的口罩，2300只N95。
On New Year's Eve afternoon, Xiao Zi finally found a batch of shipping masks, 2300 N95.
她本打算直接捐给医院，但医院电话一直占线。
She was going to donate it directly to the hospital, but the line was busy.
一旦集资完成，后援会的首要任务是让粉丝看到花钱的效果。
Once fundraising is complete, the top priority for the aid group is to show fans how much money is being spent.
当时，公开发起捐赠的公益组织并不多，武汉红十字会是其中规模最大的一家，又有官方认证。
The Wuhan Red Cross was the largest of the few public-interest organizations to make public donations and had official accreditation.
小z把物资捐给了武汉红十字会。
Xiaoz donated the supplies to the Wuhan Red Cross.
捐后不久，小z看到红十字会公开的账目，“做得乱七八糟”，被曝光积压口罩不发，央视直播还把人记者赶走了。
Shortly after the donation, Zi saw the Red Cross's public accounts, "done badly," was exposed as a backlog of masks, and CCTV broadcast the reporters away.
“气得血压都要高了”，采访里，她强调自己的愤怒。
"Blood pressure is high with anger," she said in an interview, stressing her anger.
每天凌晨两三点，小z进入直播间。
Two or three in the morning, little z goes into the studio.
她看小叉车，也看工人铺地基，但更多时间是在看弹幕：有人给施工设备取名叫“吴三桂”，也有人说“上海监工来交班了”，每次都有很多人陪着她一起看。
She watched the forklift and the workers lay the foundations, but more time was spent looking at the shrapnel: someone named the construction equipment "Wu Sangui" and some said "Shanghai supervisors have come to hand over the work," with many people accompanying her every time.
她不想看到“那些消极负面的新闻”了，小叉车看上去很开心，她也因此觉得日子开心了起来。
She didn't want to see "the negative news" anymore. The forklift looked happy and she felt better about it.
半小时后，女孩关掉直播，睡着了。
Half an hour later, the girl turned off the live broadcast and fell asleep.
文中人名为粉丝的饭圈ID，部分为化名GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by epidemic situation, or know all kinds of information that can contribute to the prevention and treatment of epidemic disease, please contact us at any time! We are ready to hear your voice at any time.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：张炜铖、王伊文、吴呈杰编辑：康路凯、吴呈杰运营编辑：肖呱呱。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! In the public backstage reply to eggs, sent you a colorful egg writing: Zhang Weoseng, Wang Yiwen, Wu Chengjie Editor: Kang Lukai, Wu Chengjie Operations Editor: Xiao Quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
饭圈救援2020。
Dinner ring rescue 2020.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "饭圈救援2020";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Raffle Rescue 2020 & quot;;
var msg_desc = "在武汉疫情的支援行动中，饭圈成为一股透明、高效的民间力量";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; in Wuhan.
title: '总是怀疑自己感染新冠病毒了，心情焦虑到不行，该怎么办？',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情中的武汉孕妇：我想活命，我的孩子也是',。
Wuhan pregnant woman: I wanted to survive. My child was also AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一群00后留学生的捐赠行动：“我们和真实的社会接上了”',。
A donation at the hands of a group of foreign students: "We are with real society" and & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
