一线｜除夕夜自我隔离的武汉人和 100 套防护服曲折路。
A thread of self-isolation on New Year's Eve, Wuhan people and 100 sets of protective clothing twists and turns.
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
除夕那天下午，武汉一家医院设备工程师陈晨（化名）终于去了工作所在的医院挂号就诊，他已经连续咳了 4、5 天了。
On New Year's Eve that afternoon, Chen Chen, an equipment engineer at a Wuhan hospital (not her real name), finally went to the hospital where he was working.
CT 显示双肺纹理增加，考虑感染性病变。
CT revealed increased bilateral lung texture, taking into account infectious lesions.
因为肺炎症状较轻、病床紧张，没有太多犹豫，陈晨在医生的建议下拿了药回家隔离。
Because pneumonia symptoms are light, bed tension, not too much hesitation, Chen Chen in the doctor's recommendation to take medicine home isolation.
陈晨也不确定自己是如何被感染的，能想到的只有放假前的最后几天，因为工作跑了好几趟 ICU（重症监护室）。
Chen is also unsure of how she was infected, thinking only of the last few days before the holiday, as she made several trips to the ICU (intensive care unit).
离开门诊大厅时，陈晨又一次看到殡仪馆的车辆开到医院门口，「我开始怕了」。
As she left the clinic hall, Chen Chen saw the undertaker's vehicle drive to the hospital door again. "I'm starting to get scared."
拎着一塑料袋药品，陈晨在医院的小花园里找了块石头坐下，眼泪开始不受控地流下来。
Holding a plastic bag of medicine, Chen Chen found a stone in the small garden of the hospital and sat down. Tears began to flow down uncontrollably.
此时，陈晨好不容易联系上的孝感防护服物资还迟迟未能抵汉，经过了前两天的「曲折」，他已经不敢再向亲朋好友作出承诺。
At this point, Chen Chen hard to contact the filial protective clothing material is still too late to arrive in the Han, after the first two days of "twists", he has no longer dare to make promises to friends and relatives.
而他不知道的是，他打了几百个电话，好不容易「抢」下的 100 套 3M 防护服，在被林辉（化名）领回了医院之后，并不符合受捐医用物资的标准……除夕夜，独自一人留在武汉的陈晨仍不停地拨通电话，他不敢让自己闲下来：找联系人，找防护物资，找货运渠道，找开证明……当晚，一辆装着几百套防护服的货车从孝感开过来，却在进城时被拦住了……预定的520 套却只有100 套1 月 19 日，陈晨所工作的医院收治了第一例疑似新型冠状病毒感染的病人，并很快确诊。
What he did not know was that he made hundreds of phone calls and managed to "grab" 100 sets of 3M suits. After Lin Hui (not his real name) returned to the hospital, Chen Chen, left alone in Wuhan on New Year's Eve, was stopped in the city.
作为医院设备科的工程师，陈晨平时负责维修医疗设备、机器。
As an engineer in the hospital equipment department, Chen Chen is responsible for maintaining medical equipment and machinery.
也正是在陈晨来回跑 ICU 的那几天，疫情传播和舆论发酵到了一个几乎不可控的程度。
Chen Chen also ran back and forth in the ICU days, the spread of the epidemic and public opinion fermentation to a degree almost uncontrollable.
深处核心地带的陈晨，开始接到来自各种亲朋好友的电话，目的都是请他帮忙找物资——有同学在医疗器械公司工作，经常需要跟医院打交道，希望能求购一些防护服。
Chen Chen, in the heart of the country, began to receive phone calls from relatives and friends seeking help finding supplies. Some students worked for a medical-device company and often had to deal with hospitals in hopes of buying protective clothing.
陈晨的姐姐也在武汉当医生，由于物资紧张，她和同事一套防护服也没分到，也打电话给陈晨，想通过他的渠道买一些防护。
Chen Chen's sister, also a doctor in Wuhan, and because of material constraints, she and her colleagues did not get a suit, also called Chen Chen to buy some protection through his channels.
医疗圈工作多年，又有很多的关系网，刚开始陈晨非常自信。
After years of working in medical circles and many networking relationships, Chen Chen was confident at first.
的确，他也很快联系到了老家黄冈的一位远房表哥。
Indeed, he soon made contact with a distant cousin in his hometown of Huanggang.
表哥平时在深圳做一次性耗材的生意，跟一些防护服供货商打过交道。
Cousins usually do a disposable goods business in Shenzhen, with some protective clothing suppliers have dealt with.
事后，表哥还跟陈晨感叹，放在平时，弄个 2 万套应该不是大问题。
Afterwards, the cousin and Chen Chen lament, put in peacetime, get a set of 20, 000 should not be a big problem.
但很快，陈晨和表哥都感觉到了物资的紧张，反复打了好多电话之后能保证供货的几乎没有，大多是说「尽力帮忙」。
But soon, Chen Chen and cousin are feeling the material tension, repeatedly made a number of phone calls can guarantee the supply of almost nothing, mostly said "do your best to help."
陈晨算了算自己的需求：一位同学替某医疗器械公司预定的 200 套，医生姐姐和同事需要的几十套，一些在湖北境内的同学自留的上百套，自己和武汉的朋友再预留一些……打了超过100通电话，表哥始终没给确信，「最后我都急眼了，直接求他了，怎么的也得给我的留下来，这人情哪怕日后我私人还怎么都行。
Chen Chen calculated his own needs: a student for a medical equipment company to book 200 sets, doctors sister and colleagues need dozens of sets, some students in Hubei kept some of their own hundreds of phone calls, my cousin never convinced.
」经历曲折的 100 套 3M 防护服 图源：受访者供图一方面是同学、朋友不停地催促，一方面是始终没法确定的物资走向。
After a series of twists and turns, 100 sets of 3M protective clothing came from the respondents. On the one hand, they were constantly urged by their classmates and friends, and on the other hand, they were always uncertain about the direction of materials.
陈晨回忆，从 1 月 20 日钟南山院士公开说「肯定有人传人」之后，防护服的价格是水涨船高。
Chen recalled that from Jan. 20, when academician Chung Nan Shan publicly said, "There must be someone passing on", the price of protective clothing is soaring.
陈晨说，他们刚开始联系拿货时的价格是 45 元一套，到了 1 月 21 日下午就变成了 85 元，第二天是 150 元，23 号封城那天已经是国产 280 元一套，进口 320 元。
Chen Chen said that when they first began to contact the price of 45 yuan a set, January 21 afternoon became 85 yuan, the next day 150 yuan, 23 was already a domestic 280 yuan a set, import 320 yuan.
果然，仅隔了一天，陈晨就接到消息，已经预定好的 520 套防护服，被供货商发给别人了，只剩下 100 套。
Sure enough, just a day apart, Chen Chen received news that 520 suits of protective clothing had been ordered and given to others by the supplier, leaving only 100 sets.
回忆起这段曲折来，仍在病中的陈晨声音从电话传出，依旧激动起伏。
Remembering the twists and turns, Chen Chen's voice, still sick, still rose and fell from the phone.
他说自己喜欢这种被人需要的感觉，特别是在关键时候，「一定不能掉链子」。
He says he likes the feeling of being needed, especially when it comes to "making sure you don't lose the chain."
封城日，防护服在路上1 月 21 日，高级别专家组提出建议：「现在能不到武汉去就不去,武汉人能不出来就不出来。
On January 21, the high-level panel of experts issued a recommendation: "If you can't go to Wuhan now, you can't come out without Wuhan.
」「封城」几乎迫在眉睫，而陈晨的那 100 套防护服还在外地的仓库里等待物流转运。
"Sealing the city" is almost imminent, and Chen Chen's 100 suits are still waiting in warehouses outside the city for logistics transshipment.
加上临近春节，各大快递公司通往武汉的物流渠道都很不畅通。
Coupled with the approach of the Spring Festival, the major express companies to Wuhan logistics channels are not smooth.
继续打电话，软磨硬泡、招数全上，不断地联系各家快递公司，跟对方解释这批物资的紧迫性。
Continue to call, soft frothy, all moves, constantly contact each express company to explain the urgency of the material.
更让陈晨担心的事儿发生了。
What Chen Chen worried about happened even more.
21 到 22 日，包括协和医院、同济医院在内的几十家武汉医院，都联合发出了通告，由于疫情发展迅猛，医院防护服、医用口罩、护目镜等物资紧缺，向全社会求援。
Between February 21 and 22, dozens of Wuhan hospitals, including Concorde Hospital and Tongji Hospital, jointly issued notices asking the whole society for help because of the rapid development of the epidemic and the shortage of hospital protective clothing, medical masks and goggles.
一时间，陈晨所在的武汉医疗圈，似乎所有人都在找防护服、医用口罩、护目镜。
For a moment, Chen Chen's Wuhan medical circle, it seems that all are looking for protective clothing, medical masks, goggles.
在这其中，防护服是最紧缺的。
Of these, protective clothing is the most scarce.
陈晨开始接到了一些不认识的电话，都是听说陈晨能弄到防护服找到的，其中不少是志愿帮医院来问的。
Chen Chen began to receive a number of unknown phone calls, are heard Chen Chencan get protective clothing found, many of them volunteer to help the hospital to ask.
「那会儿武汉有医院已经陆续有十几位医护人员被感染了，在我心里，那几家医院是武汉医疗界的顶梁柱，谁都可以不用防护服，他们是一定要优先供应的。
"By that time, more than a dozen medical workers had been infected in Wuhan hospitals. In my mind, these hospitals are the backbone of Wuhan medical community, no one can use protective clothing, they must be given priority.
」身处医疗朋友圈，陈晨这一次感觉，自己被卷入了疫情漩涡的中心。
In a circle of medical friends, Chen felt herself drawn into the center of the whirlpool.
最后，在一位河北籍武大校友的求助下，陈晨决定把还没拿到手的那 100 套防护服优先供给武汉一家大型医院。
Finally, with the help of an alumnus of Hebei University, Chen Chen decided to give priority to the 100 sets of protective clothing that had not been handed over to a large Wuhan hospital.
而另一边，最早已经答应好的同学也打电话来催促，「我的同学也很难，之前刚跟领导说弄到货了，但我货肯定要给医院，只能答应他再从别的地方找。
On the other hand, the earliest has promised good students also called to urge, "my classmate is also very difficult, just told the leadership to get the goods, but I must give the goods to the hospital, can only promise him to look for another place.
」1 月 22 日，物流公司最终将防护服货物卸载了武汉郊区的蔡甸仓库，通知陈晨自行取货。
On January 22, the logistics company finally unloaded protective clothing from the warehouse in Cai dian, a suburb of Wuhan, and told Chen Chen to pick it up.
后来，受捐医院自己派了科室医生自家去仓库拿的货。
Later, the donated hospital sent its own section doctors to the warehouse to pick up the goods.
前去取货的受捐医院主治医生林辉（化名）并没有见过陈晨，直到数天后，他才知道，当初在紧急时刻给我们送防护服的陈晨已经在家隔离好几天了。
Lin Hui (not his real name), the donor's doctor who went to pick up the goods, did not see Chen Chen until a few days later, when he learned that Chen Chen, who had been delivering protective clothing to us in an emergency, had been in isolation at home for several days.
林辉告诉我们，按照往常的流程，物流公司应该由中型货车从蔡甸运货到市里的小仓库，再由快递员分拣派送。
Lin told us that according to the usual procedure, logistics companies should be transported by medium goods vehicles from Cai Jian to a small warehouse in the city, where they will be sorted and delivered by couriers.
但当时，即将封城的武汉早已经失去了往日的秩序，最后，林辉独自驱车第一次来到远在郊区的蔡甸，在大货车里一箱一箱地卸货，这才找到了那 100 套防护服。
But by then, Wuhan, which was about to be closed down, had lost the old order. Finally, Lin Hui drove alone to Cai Den in the suburbs for the first time, unloaded boxes of goods vehicles, and found the 100 suits.
武汉某仓库的卸货区 图源：受访者供图而陈晨不知道的是，最终这 100 套防护服，林辉所在的科室只留了 35 套，剩下的都分给了兄弟医院。
What Chen Chen did not know was that in the end, only 35 of the 100 suits had been left by Lin's department and the rest had been handed out to the brother hospital.
他更不知道的是，两天后，林辉被告知，这一批 3M 防护服，并不符合要求。
What he does not know is, two days later, Lin Hui was told that this batch of 3M protective clothing, do not meet the requirements.
据林辉提供的一份其所在医院分发的关于接受社会捐赠防护用品的说明，目前只能接收符合 GB19082-2009 标准、欧标 EN14126 二级以上的物资。
According to a note provided by Lin Hui on the receipt of donated protective equipment from his hospital, only materials meeting the GB 19082-2009 standard and EN 14126 above level II can be received at present.
「其实我们也很无奈，但是领导说了，如果用了不符合规定的物资，出了问题后果自负。
"In fact, we are very helpless, but the leadership said, if the use of non-conforming material, after the problem after the consequences.
」陈晨和林辉都不约而同地表示，这一次应对武汉封城之后的物资储备，似乎各部门都没有做好准备，甚至有些失控。
Chen Chen and Lin Hui agreed, saying that this time around Wuhan closed the material reserves, as if the departments were not prepared, or even out of control.
截止发稿前，林辉所在的科室有 150 名医生，但是储备的防护服只有 50 套。
Before the deadline, Lin had 150 doctors in his department, but only 50 protective suits were in stock.
除夕夜开始居家隔离「你怎么咳得这么厉害？」陈晨告诉我，那日电话里同学这么问的时候，他才意识到，自己已经不知不觉咳了 4、5 天。
"Why are you coughing so bad?" Chen Chen told me that he realized that he had coughed for four or five days before he knew it.
陈晨对自己的健康状况颇为自信。
Chen Chen is confident about her health.
往年感冒，一颗头孢吃下去绝对就好了，但这次陈晨接连吃了好几天头孢，效果并不见好，咳嗽也越来越严重。
In years of cold, a cefta absolutely good, but this Chen Chen eat for several days cefta, the effect is not good, cough more and more serious.
腊月二十九的晚上，陈晨咳了一晚上，背痛越来越明显，陈晨知道，是时候该去医院看看了。
On the evening of the 29th lunar month, Chen Chen coughed all night and the back pain became more and more obvious. Chen Chen knew it was time to go to the hospital.
除夕的下午，陈晨回到工作所在的医院，挂号排队就诊，结果显示：CT 显示双肺纹理增加，考虑感染性病变。
On New Year's Eve afternoon, Chen Chen returned to the hospital where she was working. Results showed that CT showed an increase in the texture of both lungs, taking into account infectious diseases.
看完病，陈晨先给科室主任报备了自己的肺炎情况，当时主任问他是否需要在医院隔离。
After seeing the illness, Chen Chen first reported his pneumonia to the bureau chief, who asked him if he needed to be quarantined in hospital.
这时候他才知道，除他之外，医院人事科也有两位同事出现症状住进了隔离病房。
It was then that he learned that, in addition to him, two colleagues in the hospital personnel department had developed symptoms and were admitted to the isolation ward.
没有确诊，陈晨也不确定自己何时感染的，唯一能想到的是，放假前跑了好几次ICU。
No diagnosis, Chen Chen is not sure when he was infected, the only thing to think of is that the vacation before running several ICU.
1月19日，医院有了第一例疑似病人。
On 19 January, the hospital had its first suspected case.
也正是在那几天，医院 ICU 的呼吸机出现故障，作为医院设备科的工程师，陈晨连着去了好几趟，又因为缺少配件，连续跑了 4、5 天才修好。
Also in those days, the hospital ICU ventilator malfunctioned, as an engineer in the hospital equipment department, Chen Chen went back and forth several times, and because of a lack of spare parts, ran for four or five days to repair.
陈晨记得，虽然当时民众还没有特别恐慌，但武汉的医院已经做了一些防护，ICU 的医护人员都全套防护。
Chen recalled that although the public was not particularly alarmed at the time, Wuhan hospitals have made some protection, ICU medical staff are full of protection.
唯一有些遗憾的是，作为维修人员，当时的陈晨每次进入 ICU 只穿戴了普通的隔离服、普通口罩。
The only regret is that, as a maintenance staff, Chen Chen entered the ICU every time only wearing ordinary isolation clothing, ordinary masks.
陈晨没有太犹豫便选择了居家隔离，一方面是觉得自己还能应付地过来，无需占用医院资源；另一方面门诊医生也告诉他，医院环境复杂可能发生交叉感染，轻症患者在家隔离反而安全。
Chen Chen did not hesitate to choose isolation, on the one hand, feel able to cope with it, do not need to occupy hospital resources; on the other hand, outpatient doctors told him that complex hospital environment may occur cross-infection, light patients isolated at home is safe.
给主任报备完，陈晨准备离开医院回家，他不打算告诉家人，免得他们担心。
After reporting to the director, Chen Chen prepared to leave the hospital to go home, he did not plan to tell his family, lest they worry.
在此之前，他让儿子跟着老婆回了外婆家，封城后自己只能独留武汉。
Prior to this, he let his son with his wife back to Grandmother, after the closure of the city can only stay alone Wuhan.
图片来源：受访者提供拿到 CT 结果陈晨并不意外，从他开始咳嗽的那天起，就已经在脑海中想过，这一切可能降落在自己头上。
Source: Respondents were not surprised to be presented with CT results. Chen Chen had been thinking since the day he started coughing that it might fall on him.
拎着一塑料药品，陈晨出了门诊大厅的门，眼前却出现了一辆殡仪馆的车辆，醒目、刺眼。
Holding a plastic medicine, Chen Chenchen out of the outpatient hall door, but in front of a funeral parlor vehicles, eye-catching, dazzling.
这是陈晨就诊当天第二次看见殡仪馆车辆，当时医院已经出现了 4 个死亡病例。
It was the second time Chen had seen an undertaker's vehicle on the day of her visit, when four deaths had already occurred.
「心里特别慌乱，我开始怕了」。
"I was in such a panic that I started to get scared."
恍惚中，陈晨走到了医院的小花园，找了块石头坐下，眼泪突然就流了下来。
Trance, Chen Chen went to the small garden of the hospital, found a stone and sat down, tears suddenly flow down.
一瞬间思绪万千，他想到了去世多年的母亲。
In a flash he thought of his mother, who had died for many years.
那时候，陈晨刚上大学，母亲的去世让他第一次体会到了至亲离开的悲痛。
At that time, Chen Chengang went to college, the death of his mother let him first experience the grief of the bereaved.
而随着年龄的增长，陈晨觉得自己早已经想得挺开，「唯一放不开的就是我儿子，他还那么小。
As she grew older, Chen Chen felt that she had been thinking about it. "The only thing I can't let go of is my son, who is so young.
」想到儿子，陈晨觉得自己坚强的外壳仿佛裂了一条缝隙，心里一阵刺痛。
"Thinking of her son, Chen Chen felt as if her strong shell had cracked a crack and hurt.
就这么想着想着，陈晨回到了家。
With this in mind, Chen Chen returned home.
除夕夜笼罩着阴影，但亲人的视频电话点醒了他，打起精神跟异地的亲人互道新春快乐。
New Year's Eve in the shadow, but the relatives of the video call woke him up, with the spirit of the family in other places to say happy New Year.
而此时，一辆载着防护服的货车已经从孝感抵达了武汉边界，却因为缺少证明无法进城。
By this time, a lorry carrying protective clothing had arrived at the Wuhan border from a sense of filial piety, but could not enter the city for lack of proof.
那车进不了城的防护服被隔离的那个除夕，陈晨不记得自己一共打了多少个电话，总之是停不下来。
Chen Chen couldn't remember how many calls he had made on New Year's Eve when the car couldn't get into the city's protective clothing.
越来越多的物资需求找到了他，而刚从医院出来的他，也确实，急需找一件事情来转移注意力。
More and more material needs to find him, and just out of the hospital, he did, indeed, need to find something to divert attention.
彼时，刚刚封城的武汉一片混乱。
Back then, Wuhan, which had just been closed, was in disarray.
市内公共交通戛然而止，不少医护人员的出勤成了困难，而政府一时半会儿也没有公布应对的方案。
Public transport in the city has come to an abrupt end, making attendance difficult for many health-care workers, and the government has yet to announce a plan to deal with it.
而另一方面，封城后物流通道也未能及时打通，一些民间捐助物资无法抵汉，陈晨对此颇为不满。
On the other hand, after the closure of the logistics channel has not been opened in time, some non-governmental donations can not reach Han, Chen Chen quite dissatisfied with this.
为了将防护服从深圳运到武汉，他和朋友给快递公司打了很多电话，但得到的回复都是：目前进不了武汉。
To transport the defense from Shenzhen to Wuhan, he and his friends made a lot of phone calls to the express company, but were told that they could not enter Wuhan at the moment.
「当时气得不行，电话里已经跟快递公司的人吵起来，但是他们也没有办法，封城来得特别突然」，陈晨深爱着武汉这座城市，然而这次的各种遭遇却距离理想很遥远，眼看着疫情一次次考验着武汉政府的决策能力。
Chen Chen loved Wuhan, the city of Wuhan, but the experience was far from ideal, seeing the epidemic time and time again test the decision-making ability of Wuhan government.
很快，陈晨接到了货车司机的电话，孝感的车辆远远地就被拦住了，需要开具相关证明才能进城。
Soon Chen Chen got a call from the lorry driver. Filial piety was stopped at a distance and required a certificate to enter the city.
「当时，政府的物资还没到，民间自己筹的还不让进城，而医院接受捐助需要走官方渠道，各个部门没打通，这在关键时候真的太鸡肋了。
"At that time, before the arrival of government goods, the private sector has not been allowed to enter the city, and hospitals to accept donations through official channels, the departments did not open, which is really too bad at a critical time.
」陈晨给所在医院打电话开证明，表哥给民政部门打电话求通融，就这么耽误了几个小时。
Chen Chen called her hospital to certify that her cousin had delayed several hours by calling the civil affairs department to ask for mercy.
除夕团圆节，等了两个多小时后，货车师傅忍不住给陈晨打电话，要赶回孝感跟家人吃饭。
New Year's Eve reunion festival, waited for more than two hours, the lorry master could not help but call Chen Chen, want to rush back filial piety with family dinner.
陈晨既无奈又理解，放任这批防护服又跟着司机离开。
Chen Chen both helpless and understand, allow these protective clothing to follow the driver to leave.
经过几日磨合，经媒体报道，目前从外地抵汉的物流入关流程包括：首先出具《物资受捐证明》，经关卡处查验后颁发《疫情防控特别通行证》，再持证进入湖北。
After several days of wear and tear, through media reports, the current logistics entry process from overseas to Han, including: First issued "Material Donation Certificate," after inspection by the checkpoint issued "epidemic prevention and control special pass," and then hold a certificate to enter Hubei.
而在这套流程已然成熟之前，陈晨和林辉眼看着，无数民间的捐助，都因为无法开具证明而被挡在武汉城外。
Before the process matured, Chen Chen and Lin Hui watched as countless private donations were blocked outside Wuhan for failing to issue certificates.
事实上，陈晨从所在的医院了解到，由政府调控的第一批物资正式发放到武汉各大医院时，已经是 1 月 26 日，比陈晨帮忙协调到的那批孝感物资时间要晚整整 2 天。
In fact, Chen Chen learned from her hospital that the first batch of supplies regulated by the government was delivered to Wuhan major hospitals on January 26, two days later than Chen Chen helped coordinate the delivery of filial piety.
而直到现在，当初托陈晨找防护服的同学、亲戚一套防护服也没能到手。
Until now, Chen Chen to find protective clothing students, relatives also failed to get a suit.
在跟我通电话时，陈晨仍然有一些咳嗽，但他说背部已经不酸痛了，准备过两天按照医生的嘱咐再去医院拍个片子，再顺便去采购一批食材，回来继续隔离。
Chen Chen still had a few coughs on the phone, but he said his back was sore and he was going to go to the hospital for another two days, as the doctor had instructed, and then pick up a batch of ingredients and return to quarantine.
至于林辉，他又开始在朋友圈转发医院的物资紧缺信息，物资短缺的这一场仗还不知道何时能结束。
As for Lin Hui, he began relaying information about the shortage of hospital supplies in his circle of friends, and it was not known when the war would end.
撰稿：刘楚编辑：李珊珊排版：马婉莹—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
Writing: Liu Chu's Editing: Ma Wanying - TipsOur new book, Between Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code that identifies the two-dimensional code in the picture below - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death - and occasionally heals and consoles.
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一线｜除夕夜自我隔离的武汉人和 100 套防护服曲折路。
A thread of self-isolation on New Year's Eve, Wuhan people and 100 sets of protective clothing twists and turns.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "一线｜除夕夜自我隔离的武汉人和 100 套防护服曲折路";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "直到现在，当初托陈晨找物资的同学、亲戚一套防护服也没能到手。
var msg _ desc = & quot; not a suit of protective clothing was available to Chen Chen's classmate and relative until now.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
