我想上班，去公司那种！。
I want to go to work, to the company.
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
燃财经                      。
Burning finance.
燃财经。
Burning finance.
每天一篇深度报道，重新定义创新经济。
A daily in-depth report redefining the creative economy.
。
.
燃财经（ID:rancaijing）原创作者 | 赵磊 金玙璠 闫丽娇 孔明明唐亚华 黎明 孟亚娜 苏琦编辑 | 魏佳疫情肆虐，在法定节假日延长三天后，多地仍然要求企业在特定日期前不得复工，为此，很多公司都采取线上办公，职场白领们也已经体验了一周的全新工作模式。
Flaming Finance (ID: Rancaijing) Yan Lijiao Yan Lijiao Yan Lijiao Ming Tang Ya Hua Dawn Meng Na Suqi Editing & # 45; After three days of extended statutory holidays, businesses are still being asked not to return to work by a specified date.
今天开始，一些企业恢复了集体办公，但更多公司为了将风险降到最低，依然要求员工在家办公，对于大部分习惯集体办公的职场人来说，在家办公面临着许多新的挑战。
Today, some companies have returned to group work, but more companies still require their employees to work from home in order to minimize risk. For most office workers who are used to working in a group, working from home presents many new challenges.
诱惑无处不在，有人在开早会的时候还没睡醒，有人会犹豫先看剧还是先工作，也有人只想撸猫无心工作，除此之外，即便自律性很强，也有人受到家里环境的折磨，小孩的吵闹、父母的质疑、生活的琐事，无一不让人崩溃。
Some people will hesitate to go to the theatre or work first, and others will just like to keep their cats away from work. Besides that, even if they are very disciplined, some people will suffer from their home environment, the noise of their children, their parents' questions, and the little things of life.
如何在一个舒适的环境里保证工作效率和质量，如何应对家庭成员、宠物、生活起居事项等诸多干扰，如何应对公司为了保证效率而实施的各类考勤汇报规定，每个人都有不同的方法。
How to ensure the efficiency and quality of work in a comfortable environment, how to deal with family members, pets, living and personal matters, how to deal with the company to ensure efficiency of the implementation of various attendance reporting requirements, everyone has different methods.
燃财经采访了11位职场人，听听他们在家办公的真实感受，他们的共同心声是：“我想上班，去公司那种！”家人的关心影响工作效率但又气不起来胡晴 28岁 互联网公司包装设计师我做设计工作，服务甲方，平时工作比较忙，没时间休息。
I want to go to work, go to the company! "Family concerns affect the efficiency but not the anger of Hu Qing, 28-year-old Internet company packaging designer I do design work, service to Party A, usually busy work, no time to rest.
去年年末身体实在熬不住了，年前多请了一周假，提前回了老家。
Late last year, I couldn't stand it any more, so I took a week off and went back to my hometown earlier.
心想，留点时间陪陪家人，把之前没时间干的事拾起来，画几幅水彩。
Thought, leave some time to accompany the family, before there was no time to do things up, draw a few watercolor.
年前还特意买了一整套餐具，想着年后提前回北京几天，给自己做做饭，想得是挺好。
I bought a complete set of tableware years ago, thinking of returning to Beijing a few days earlier and cooking for myself.
结果受疫情影响，开工时间无限期延长。
As a result, the construction period was extended indefinitely.
我们是3号正式开工，由于我还有一部分年前的工作没完成，从初五就开始在老家工作了。
Since I haven't finished some of my work some years ago, I have been working in my hometown since the fifth day of junior high.
但是在家工作的效率非常低。
But working from home is very inefficient.
虽说受疫情影响，不让春节串门，但因为爸爸妈妈和爷爷奶奶住一起，爷爷几位兄弟的孩子还是分批来拜了年。
Although affected by the epidemic situation, not to let the Spring Festival visit, but because of the parents and grandparents living together, Grandpa or several brothers or children or batches of worship.
有带着孩子的，一闹就是几小时，不陪着说话也基本不能工作；就算没客人，家里基本也安静不下来，我爸和爷爷一下棋就喜欢互相激对方，一会就吵起来了；爷爷喜欢把新闻一条条念出来，看电视剧喜欢自言自语；我戴上耳机也没用，奶奶隔几分钟进来送趟零食，她要保证我杯子里的水永远是满的且是温的；我妈呢，每天做饭前都会问我一遍，今天吃什么。
When my father and grandpa played chess, they liked to talk to each other. My grandpa and grandpa liked to talk to each other at chess. My grandpa and grandpa liked to talk to each other at chess.
明明是爱，你又气不起来，我又没法解释清楚我的工作性质。
Obviously it is love, and you can not get angry, I can not explain the nature of my work.
在家待了半个月，我就觉得到达极限了，我在违背他们意愿之下，提前回了京。
After spending half a month at home, I felt like I was at the limit and I went back to Beijing against their will.
回京以后才发现，吃饭成了问题。
Only after returning to Beijing did I find that eating became a problem.
在家是吃饭张张嘴，回来后因为不能叫外卖，什么都得自己来。
Eat at home, open your mouth, come back because you can't order take-out, everything has to come by itself.
回京前，我妈担心我不会做面食，提前备了挂面、馒头和各种饼，还买了两箱牛奶和泡面给我。
Before returning to Beijing, my mother worried that I could not make pasta, prepared noodles, steamed bread and various kinds of cakes in advance, and bought me two boxes of milk and noodles.
从京东到家叫的菜也要省着吃，最主要的是，水平有限，吃了几顿自己做的饭就再也不想吃了。
From home from Jingdong dishes to save to eat, the most important is that the level of limited, eat a few meals cooked by themselves no longer want to eat.
某天晚上，特别想吃火锅，电商不能送货，我就想去超市现买，最后被室友劝服了。
One night, especially want to eat hot pot, electric merchants can not deliver goods, I would like to go to the supermarket to buy, was finally persuaded by roommates.
非常时期，一顿火锅都变得奢侈。
In times of crisis, a hot pot becomes extravagant.
第二天，她妈妈来给我们做了顿五色饺子解馋。
The next day, her mother came to make a dumpling for us.
室友妈妈做的五色饺子 来源 / 受访者供图以前总抱怨工作太忙，没时间锻炼厨艺，以为自己是被工作耽误的美食家，现在才觉得可能是自己想多了。
www.51education.net) www.51education.net) www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51education.net) www.51test.netwww.51test.net) www.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.englishcn.com 8.
有点怀念和同事一起拼单点外卖、和朋友下班胡吃海喝的日子了......把会炒的菜都炒了一遍就剩吵架了糖糖30岁 媒体从业者我和老公结婚一年多了，平时我们偶尔周末做饭，互相吹捧一下厨艺，还挺有生活小乐趣。
A little nostalgic for the single takeaway with my colleagues, the time to eat and drink after work with my friends... stir-fried all the dishes left over to quarrel sugar 30-year-old media practitioner My husband and I have been married for more than a year, and we used to do occasional weekend cooking and boast about cooking and having fun.
这一次疫情，一连在家做了十几天饭同时还持续在家办公，实在有些崩溃。
This time, the epidemic, cooking at home for a dozen days while still working from home, is a bit of a breakdown.
一开始我还在我妈的远程指导下自己炸了丸子，到现在，我们已经压缩成10天买一次菜，一天吃两顿饭，且通常只有一顿是像样做的，另一顿以剩饭为主。
At first I blew my balls under the remote guidance of my mother, but now we have been compressed into 10 days to buy a meal, two meals a day, usually with only a decent meal and a leftover meal.
再不行就速冻饺子、蛋炒饭、煮方便面扛两顿，以减肥为由不吃晚饭再扛一顿。
Or fast-frozen dumplings, egg fried rice, boiled instant noodles to carry two meals, to lose weight on the grounds of not eating dinner and carrying another meal.
而且我们经常是饿了才去做饭，等做好早都饿过劲了。
And we are often hungry before cooking, and so on early hungry too.
图 / Pexels我们都是媒体人，有时候俩人都有工作腾不出来手做饭，时不时要上演一场定力大战，都在等对方先去做饭。
We're both media people, and sometimes both have jobs where we can't do the cooking, and sometimes there's a stunt fight, waiting for the other person to cook.
但最生气的是，好几次一到饭点他就来工作了，不知道是巧合还是故意的。
But the most irritating thing was that he came to work several times as soon as he got to dinner, whether by accident or design.
而我做完饭之后他每次都会说，“别洗碗，放着我来”，但最后每一顿的碗都放到下一顿要做饭实在没办法了才洗。
And every time I finished cooking, he would say, "Don't wash the dishes. Put me on the table," but at the end of the day, every bowl had to be cooked for the next meal.
家里办公环境也很差，一张桌子一个人工作挺宽裕，但俩人排排坐胳膊肘就要打架，而且离得太近也会互相影响。
The office environment at home was also poor, with a table well-off to work alone, but the two of them would fight each other out in rows and too close to each other.
最后我都是在床上把电脑放在腿上写东西，几天下来腰、脖子都疼，最后只能薅出来一个万年不用的餐桌搭了个临时工位，桌前床上换着工作。
Finally, I put my computer on my lap and wrote things on my bed. My waist and neck ached for a few days and I ended up putting up a temporary job at a table that had been unused for ten thousand years.
我想复工，去公司的那种，能出去吃饭的那种。
I want to get back to work, the kind of company that can eat out.
日常在家撸猫解压提升工作效率全靠DDL柯柯 27岁 某公关公司员工我在家办公5天了，刚开始知道要在家办公的时候，本来以为会特别爽，但我可能高估了自己的自律性。
I worked at home for five days and I was beginning to realize how much better it would be to work at home. But I probably overestimated my self-discipline.
我们每天早上例行开会，我基本上能保证在开会的时候是清醒的。
We have regular meetings every morning, and I can basically guarantee that I will be awake during the meeting.
但在家办公，感觉非常没有安全感，因为看不到别人。
But working from home feels very insecure because I can't see anyone else.
在家办公的效率可能就是之前的一半，工作到无聊或者焦虑的时候，又没人说话，很容易刷剧刷抖音来缓解压力。
Working from home may be half as efficient as before, and when you're bored or anxious and no one talks, it's easy to brush off stress with a swipe.
我觉得在家办公还有个最大的挑战，就是怎么忍住不要烦家里的喵星人，我的猫最近被我烦到天天攻击我。
One of the biggest challenges I feel about working from home is trying to stop annoying the Martians at home. My cat has been getting on my nerves lately.
而且在家办公，买菜吃饭也是个难题，自从小区封闭管理了以后，出去一趟还得带上出门证，太麻烦了。
And working from home, buying vegetables to eat is also a difficult problem, since the closed management of the community, a trip has to take out a pass, too troublesome.
我尝试在网上下单买菜，但每天基本上到中午那段时间就抢不到青菜了。
I tried to place an order online, but I couldn't get any green vegetables until around noon.
我索性就囤了一堆速冻饺子和泡面，天天靠它们度日。
I simply hoard a pile of frozen dumplings and noodles, and live on them every day.
图/ Pexels最近，家里猫粮也快弹尽粮绝了，商家说十号以后才给配送。
Photo / Pexels Recently, the family is running out of cat food, merchants say after the 10th distribution.
最近我们家猫总是一脸忧虑的望着窗外，估计在想铲屎官是不是失业了，再也没有猫罐头吃了之类的吧。
Recently our cat always looked anxiously out of the window, guessing whether the shitload officer lost his job, no more canned cats or something.
我觉得在家办公以后，公司内部的沟通效率提高了，老板喊我的时候基本上得随叫随到。
I think communication within the company has improved since I started working from home, and my boss is basically on call when calling me.
但联系客户的时候就不一定了，昨天和一个客户约好下午两点开会，结果等到晚上六点还没回复。
I made an appointment with a client for a meeting at 2: 00 p.m. yesterday, only to wait until 6: 00 pm to reply.
我觉得提高工作效率这个事情，还得是DDL（截止期限），这个最管用。
I think the most effective way to improve productivity is DDL (deadline).
今天早上公司通知我们继续在家办公，我感觉我马上就可以做个速冻水饺测评了。
This morning the office told us to stay at home and I felt like I could make a quick frozen dumpling review.
好想去上班。
I really want to go to work.
请善待一边办公一边做饭的“炊事员”们麻宁 35岁 娱乐工场投资副总裁我们投资这一行本来就要经常跨地区音视频会议，我也是很多在线办公软件的资深用户，所以对“在家办公”这件事并没有很措手不及。
Be kind to the people who cook while you're at work. Mahnin, 35, is vice president of investment for the 35-year-old Entertainment Factory. We invest in this business, and I'm a veteran user of a lot of online office software, so I'm not caught off guard.
但是这次全国大规模集体在家办公，还是让我体会到了一些变化。
But this large-scale collective work at home, or let me experience some changes.
一是大家都省去了通勤的时间，再也没有人有借口迟到了。
One is that everyone saves the time to commute, and no one has any excuse for being late.
如果需要拉个会议随时召开，基本上提前10分钟说一声，给大家简单准备一下的时间，就可以马上进入会议环节了。
If you need to pull a meeting at any time, basically 10 minutes in advance to say, give us a brief preparation time, you can immediately go to the session.
二是会议的效率大大提高了。
Second, the efficiency of the conference has been greatly improved.
不像以前面对面的时候，大家先寒暄，聊八卦，再等等没到齐的同事，间或点杯咖啡、拿个外卖，现在音视频会议都是直奔主题，只聊干货。
Unlike the old face-to-face days, when everyone is greeting and gossiping, waiting for colleagues who aren't here, ordering coffee or taking out a takeaway, video and audio meetings are all about dry goods.
图/ Pexels三是协同办公和在线会议工具的价值被发挥到了最大化。
Figure / Pexels Three is about maximizing the value of office synergies and online conferencing tools.
以前很多软件大家只是浅尝辄止地用了最基本的功能，在互不见面，不得不在家办公的情况下，现在才开始深度使用一些功能，我发现文档协作的同步编辑功能既省时又清晰；很多审批挪到线上，流程进行到哪一步了都很清晰，可以促使大家更集中精力，也提高效率。
I've found that the synchronized editing capabilities of document collaboration are both time-consuming and clear; many approvals move online, and the steps along the way are clear, leading to greater focus and efficiency.
但是也有几个挑战。
But there are also several challenges.
一是需要考虑一日三餐。
One is to consider three meals a day.
比如到了11点半这个时间点，在公司一定是聚精会神工作的状态，但是在家办公，就要考虑准备午饭了，很容易模糊工作和做饭之间的界限。
For example, by 11: 30, the company must be in a state of intense activity, but working from home can make it easy to blur the line between work and cooking.
有一次我煲汤，算好了需要三个小时，把汤煲上就去开电话会议了，开着开着，汤锅就发出了糊锅预警的声音。
Once I made a soup. It took me three hours to put it on the cooker. It was open and the soup pot made a cauldron sound.
在家办公，大脑在炊事员模式和白领模式之间切换，还是需要一些挑战的，所以请善待家里一边办公、一边做饭的炊事员们。
Working from home, with the brain switching between the kitchen and white-collar models, can be challenging, so treat home-cooked cookers with kindness.
二是诱惑很多。
Second, many temptations.
比如我最近在追台剧《想见你》，在家办公的时候就会想，昨晚更新的两集是不是应该看了。
For example, when I was recently chasing "Want to see you" from home, I wondered if I should have seen the two episodes I updated last night.
好在在家办公期间的工作量并不算非常饱和，可以提高工作效率，给自己省下一些时间去追剧、看书，进行一些自己的娱乐。
Fortunately, the workload at home is not very saturated, can improve work efficiency, to save some time to pursue drama, read, and some of their own entertainment.
集体办公危险，远程办公费事公司进退两难冯晨 27岁 芯片研发公司工程师对于我们程序员来说，在家工作其实是很不方便的，但特殊时期，为了安全考虑公司还是决定让我们在家从2月3号开始办公，但不管是公司还是我，以前都没有遇到过这种情况，所以刚开始的时候手忙脚乱，效率非常低，可能只能达到集体办公的30%-50%。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / vt. Fung Chen 27-year-old Chip Development Engineer For our programmers, the company decided to open on February 3 for security reasons, but neither the company nor I had experienced this before
我特别清楚地记得3号那天，我们全部门基本没干实质的活儿，最麻烦的是要配置环境，因为要远程办公，需要连接公司的电脑，本来打算用VPN连，后来有些同事连不上，就需要运维在他们的电脑上安装一个远程桌面的软件，来远程操控公司电脑，结果我们公司的运维就一个人，配置非常慢。
The most troublesome part was setting up the environment because telecommuting required connecting the company's computer, which was intended to use a VPN company. Later, some of my colleagues were unable to connect, so we had to install remote desktop software on their computers to remotely control the company's computers.
等运维的同时，领导建了几个群简单分配了任务，有问题需要在群里反馈，终于等到远程连接上办公电脑，我往本地拷贝了些代码，配置了电脑环境，第一天就草草结束了。
While waiting for the operations, the leader created several groups and simply assigned tasks. When there was a problem that needed feedback in the group, I finally got to the office computer remotely, copied some code locally, configured the computer environment, and ended up in a hurry on day one.
图/ Pexels效率低是肯定的，一方面，程序员需要团队强协作，线上沟通效率不如集体办公，大公司可能还好些，我们分工有时候不太明确，遇到问题需要一起讨论，比如遇到bug大家一起看一下，遇到数据运行出错去同事电脑那边看一下，这些都不好做；另一方面，我在家也确实会受到各种干扰，我妈总和我聊天说话唠家常，各种杂事，也没心情干活。
On the one hand, programmers need strong teamwork, online communication is less efficient than group work, large companies may be better, we sometimes have unclear division of labor, and problems need to be discussed together. On the other hand, I do suffer various interruptions at home.
最惨的有两件事，周二那天我微信问一个实习生事情，非常重要，结果他一天后才回复我，非常耽误事，要是集体办公我就直接到他工位催了；还有更惨的，我们是做芯片的，有个流程需要实际操作硬件，不然没法继续，这个芯片放在公司，而布置程序到芯片一直是我负责，情急之下，我提前从家回北京，周三（2月5日）在路上耽搁了一整天，遇到交通管制、黑车等糟心事，好不容易回到北京，周四到公司拿了芯片，又被劝返回家工作。
On Tuesday, I wrote to an intern about something very important, and then he replied to me a day later, very late. And worse, if we were working on a chip, we had a process that required actual hardware to continue.
所以这一周都是在手忙脚乱中度过的，远程环境不好，卡顿严重。
So this week has been a hectic week, with a long-distance environment and a serious problem for Carton.
为了保证工作效率，我们的周报改成了日报，但在家干的活简单，工作量也少，所以日报都是写一半编一半，我还正好负责了一个项目的日报汇总，需要把几个人的日报整合一下，简直是编上加编。
To ensure the efficiency of our work, our weekly newspaper was changed to a daily, but the work at home was simple and the work was less, so the dailies were half-written, and I happened to be in charge of a project where the daily papers of several people needed to be consolidated, if not compiled.
好在这周起我们就到公司集体办公了，但又会遇到更多的风险，甚至连饭都没地方去吃，这也很麻烦，只希望疫情快点过去，不然真的太折磨人了。
Fortunately, this week we will work in a group office, but there will be more risks, even no place to eat, this is troublesome, just hope the epidemic quickly over, otherwise really too torture.
工作量很大等俩孩子午睡后才能集中办公小雪 35岁 某公司员工我们公司2月3号就宣布了整个2月都不用去公司，全部转到线上，而且未来几个月也可能会是在家办公。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
我还比较适应，因为一直有线上工作的习惯。
I also get used to it because of the habit of working on cable all the time.
在家办公其实是一个状态，每个人都在不停调试。
Working from home is actually a state where everyone is constantly debugging.
我其实工作量还是挺大的，一方面要做销售业务，还要管理团队、招募人员，也办线上活动。
In fact, I still quite a workload, on the one hand to do sales business, but also to manage the team, recruit personnel, also run on-line activities.
但我觉得这中间最重要的是时间规划问题。
But I think the most important of these is time planning.
我家里有两个男孩都是我自己带，二宝刚一岁多，要喂奶、哄睡觉、洗澡，一日三餐做饭，整个时间消耗非常大。
My family has two boys are my own, Erbao just over a year old, to feed, coax sleep, bathe, three meals a day cooking, the total time consumption is very large.
在家办公会一直被小孩的各种吵闹声干扰，也会因为一个会开长了做饭时间晚了。
Home office will always be disturbed by a variety of noise children, but also because one will open long cooking time late.
我刚才我还跟孩子解释，现在是工作时间，我们叫在线办公，不叫在家休假，每个人都要工作，所以他现在特别乖的在旁边看书。
I just explained to my kids that it's working time, we're on-line, we don't call it home leave, everyone has to work, so now he's very good at reading.
每天下午3点到5点孩子睡着以后，是我的一个集中办公时间。
After the children fall asleep between 3pm and 5pm every day, it is one of my intensive office hours.
冲杯咖啡，开电话会议，这个时候其实我们的会议也都很高效，基本上20分钟就结束了。
Making a cup of coffee, holding a conference call, in fact, our meetings are also very efficient, basically the end of 20 minutes.
我们给工作群起了个名字叫“弯道超车”，就想在这个过程当中快速去把自己的团队做大，招募到优秀的人。
We gave the work group a name called "the curve overtake", in the process want to quickly do their own team to enlarge, recruit excellent people.
图/ Pexels线上办公其实比较有效率，不过线下办公更容易深入，对于沟通协作来讲，肯定是线下更好一点。
Figure / Pexels is actually more efficient online, but offline work is easier to work in depth, for communication and collaboration, it is definitely better offline.
当然这个过程中新招募的人可能没有办法很好地感受企业文化。
Of course, new hires in the process may not be able to feel the culture well.
很多人选公司看中的还是团队文化、价值观，在线办公是比较难体会的，这是其中的一个弊端。
Many companies are still interested in the team culture, values, online office is more difficult to understand, which is one of the drawbacks.
对我个人来说，想出去是真的，但并没有特别想去公司打卡。
Personally, it's true that I want to go out, but I don't particularly want to go to the company to punch a card.
工作是这样，如果有些东西硬性要求去做，没有那么多的自主权，就很不开心，但如果没有KPI，所有东西都是我想做的，也能看的到成绩感受得到进步，就会很有积极性。
The job is that if something is hard to do and there's not that much autonomy, then it's hard to be happy, but without KPI, everything is what I want to do, and I can see that the feeling of achievement has improved, and there will be a lot of enthusiasm.
崩溃式带娃最后不得不隔离自己小夕 30岁 某知识服务MCN机构员工我已经在家办公7天了，最开始听说要在家办公，超级兴奋，这可是梦寐以求的工作方式。
Crash Babs Eventually had to isolate themselves 30 Years old A Knowledge Service MCN I had been working from home for seven days and had been told at first that I was going to work from home.
我在望京上班但住在通州，每天工作路上总耗时三四个小时。
I work in Wangjing but live in Tongzhou. It takes me three or four hours to get to work every day.
家有小孩子，我想有更多时间陪伴他成长，所以早在年前就跟老板提过，年后是否可以以兼职形式合作。
I want to have more time to grow up with my child, so I mentioned it to my boss as early as a few years ago.
但公司不给兼职人员上保险和公积金，我非常纠结。
But the company does not give part-time staff insurance and provident funds, I am very tangled.
疫情来了之后，我心想这下妥了，既可以安心在家办公，还有人给交社保公积金，两不耽误。
After the outbreak came, I thought to myself that this can be settled at home, but also to pay the social security provident fund, two do not delay.
我们公司属于知识服务MCN机构，在家办公几乎不影响业务，但很多同事现在都被困在老家，集体电话会议时，总能听到里面有各种奇怪的声音，有一天开晨会的时候，我听到了鸡叫声。
Our company is a knowledge-based MCN organization that does little to affect business, but many of our colleagues are now stuck in their home communities, where strange noises can always be heard on group teleconferences, and one morning I heard chicken calls.
公司倒是没规定我们需要打卡，上下班时间也自由，但工作时间反而变得更长了，休息日也会被喊去沟通工作。
The company doesn't have rules about how we need to punch in and get to and from work, but the hours get longer and rest days are called in to communicate.
开会的时候，老板也一般都是话里有话，会用公司经济危机带动大家的工作积极性。
At meetings, the boss is usually what he said, will use the company's economic crisis to drive everyone's enthusiasm.
有一次老板在电话会中说，公司现金流能撑两个月没问题，能保证大家工资正常发，但两个月之后，公司的发展就要靠大家在这段时间的业绩表现了。
Once the boss told a telephone conference that cash flow would last for two months to make sure everyone gets their pay right, but in two months' time, the company's growth would depend on how well you perform.
图/ Pexels我家里有个3岁的娃，总闹着要我陪。
Photo / Pexels There is a 3-year-old baby in my house who is always asking me to accompany her.
一天至少得说二十几次“妈妈你陪我玩”，我只能和他说，等一会，你先玩会儿。
At least twenty times a day, "Mom, you play with me," I can only talk to him, wait a minute, you play first.
刚开始他还同意，我陪他坐在地上，他自己玩，我用电脑办公，后来他连电脑都不让我碰了。
At first he agreed that I would sit with him on the floor, that he would play with himself, that I would work on my computer, and that he would not let me touch the computer again.
虽然家里人非常理解我的工作，也在努力帮我带孩子，但男人带孩子耐性有限，不一会俩人就闹别扭了，我还得出来调解。
Although my family understood what I was doing and was trying to help me with the kids, my patience with the kids was limited and I had to intervene.
最后我只能把自己隔离起来，给自己划分了一个办公界限，提前和家人沟通好自己要几点工作，工作时间请勿打扰。
Finally, I can only isolate themselves, to delimit their own office boundaries, communication with their families in advance to their own work, please do not disturb working hours.
但一个人办公的时候，又有点抵挡不住零食的诱惑，还总想去床上躺一躺。
But when a person is working, and a little bit resist the temptation of snacks, but also always want to go to bed to lie down.
我觉得深夜办公效率最高，所以最近总是上夜班，黑白颠倒。
I think office work late at night is the most efficient, so I always work night shift recently, black and white reversed.
现在，我非常想念上班的日子。
Now, I miss going to work very much.
每天化妆穿正装在家办公以视频会议的方式督促员工刘欣 32岁 某创业公司CEO我初七开始在家办公，初十开始让公司全体员工在家上班。
Every day make-up wear formal office at home by videoconference to urge employees Liu Xin 32-year-old CEO of a start-up company I began to work from home, the tenth began to let the company employees work from home.
最开始我还比较懒散，每天穿着睡衣拖鞋，后来我发现这样没有工作状态，于是就在家专门隔出了一个相对独立的办公空间，当作自己的临时办公室，彻底进入工作模式。
At first I was lazy, wearing pajamas and slippers, but then I realized that I didn't work, so I set aside a relatively independent office space at home as my temporary office and went into full operation mode.
我觉得生活需要仪式感，上班需要正式，跟你在哪里办公没关系。
I feel that life needs a sense of ceremony, that work needs to be formal, and that it has nothing to do with where you work.
我每天的在岗时间段是上午9点半到下午6点半，要求公司全员必须在钉钉打卡，而且我每天都穿正装，早上要化妆，跟平时去公司上班一样，这样能让我觉得自己真的是在上班，而不是在磨洋工。
I work from 9: 30 a.m. to 6: 30 p.m. every day, and I require the entire staff to punch in, and I wear formal clothes every day, make up in the morning, and go to work as usual, which makes me feel like I'm actually at work, not a loafer.
相信我，当你每天在家里花半个小时来化妆，穿上正装和高跟鞋，你想偷懒都做不到。
Trust me, you can't be lazy when you spend half an hour a day at home dressing up and wearing a dress and high heels.
家里人不理解我为什么在家里还要穿正装。
My family did not understand why I had to wear formal clothes at home.
我能感觉到，我母亲每天都是用异样的眼光在看我。
I could feel my mother looking at me with strange eyes every day.
而且她总觉得我是要出去见人，时不时会过来“视察”一下。
And she always felt like I was going out to meet people, and that I would come here every once in a while to "check in."
我这屋里一有动静，她就竖起耳朵，生怕我趁她不注意溜出去。
She pricked up her ears at the slightest movement in my room lest I should slip out without her noticing.
我的工作大部分是要在电脑上完成，而且安排工作是远程指挥，很少打电话。
Most of my work is done on a computer, and I'm assigned to work remotely, making few phone calls.
父母不理解，他们认为你就是在看电脑。
Parents don't understand. They think you're just looking at the computer.
有一天我妈跑过来质问我，“你每天穿得跟餐厅服务员一样，坐在家里看电脑，你到底在干啥？”图/ Pexels我们每天早上10点开公司全员视频会议。
One day my mother came up to me and asked me, "What the hell are you doing sitting at home looking at your computer like a waitress every dayWe have a full-time company videoconference every morning at 10: 00am.
我要求必须是视频，而不是语音，因为这样员工才会重视。
I require that it be video, not voice, because that's how people value it.
要不然，很可能大家是躺在被窝里跟你开会，这样哪里有工作的氛围？而且只有视频会议，我才能看到每个人的状态，也能更好掌握大家的工作进度。
Otherwise, most likely people will be lying in bed with you in a meeting, so where is the work atmosphere? And only by video conference can I see everyone's status and better control the progress of your work.
远程办公最大的一个问题是，沟通很难传递情绪。
One of the biggest problems with telecommuting is that it's hard to convey emotions.
我更倾向于面对面沟通。
I prefer face-to-face communication.
远程沟通会出现一个非常尴尬的场景：我这边气得快要爆炸了，但对方可能并不知道，我急得想摔手机，但摔来摔去却只能摔自己的手机。
There is a very embarrassing scenario of remote communication: I'm about to explode on my side, but the other person may not know. I'm so anxious to drop my phone, but I have to drop my phone to and fro.
如果是当面沟通，就不会存在这些问题。
These problems do not exist if there is face-to-face communication.
在家办公这段时间，我觉得正是因为能够办公，能够每天打扮得很正式，才让我觉得自己不是成为了一个吃饭机器。
During my stay at home, I felt like I wasn't becoming a eating machine because I was able to work and dress up very formally every day.
要不然，在家真的每天就是吃。
Otherwise, eat at home every day.
我认为一个成熟的职场女性，需要有一种自律的职业精神。
I think a mature professional woman needs to have a self-discipline of professionalism.
集体办公是一个工作日的仪式让生活有规律感梁优 26岁 跳海酒馆创始人从大年初一开始，我和女朋友过上了这样的生活：早上10、11点起床，准备做午饭，下午2、3点吃饭，玩玩手机、聊聊天，准备做晚饭，晚上7、8点吃晚饭，看一部电影或者玩会游戏，睡觉。
Starting from New Year's Eve, my girlfriend and I got up at 10 or 11 in the morning, prepared for lunch, had lunch at 2 or 3 p.m., played cell phones, chatted, prepared dinner, had dinner at 7 or 8 p.m., watched a movie or played a game, slept.
同样的生活，我们已经过到第16天了。
We have passed the sixteenth day of the same life.
最初得知疫情消息的时候心情很低落，因为我是干线下店的，又是老板，对于无法经营这件事特别沮丧。
When I first heard about the outbreak, I was depressed because I was a mainline shopkeeper and boss, and I was particularly frustrated that I couldn't run the business.
对我来说，在家办公最大的挑战是自己的状态。
The biggest challenge for me to work from home is my state.
因为这次在家办公大家都是被迫的，而且疫情这么严重，很容易情绪过载，不能出门自己也很难受，心理的健康状态调适是我目前面对的最大挑战。
Since everyone is forced to work from home, and the epidemic is so severe, it is easy to be emotionally overloaded and unable to go out on their own.
虽然我也养着两只狗，但对于猫狗的干扰我觉得还好，很多公司毕竟也养猫。
Although I own two dogs, I feel good about dog and cat disturbance. After all, many companies own cats.
集体办公和在家办公的区别我认为主要在仪式感。
The difference between a group office and a home office is, I think, mainly ceremonial.
集体办公效率未必比在家办公高，但是集体办公是一个工作日的仪式，按时起床、去公司，会让你生活有一个规律感，类似于“森田疗法”。
Group work isn't necessarily more efficient than working from home, but group work is a work-day ritual. Getting up on time and going to the office gives you a sense of regularity, akin to Morita therapy.
集体办公也利于培养团队感情，在家办公有一种跟团队失去联系的感觉。
Group work is also conducive to the development of team emotions, working from home has a sense of loss of contact with the team.
我觉得在家办公在具体的、有计划的事务上效率甚至高于集体办公，但有些软的东西你看不到，尤其是集体办公可以碰撞出很多不在计划内的新的点子和思路。
I find it even more efficient to work from home on specific, planned things than on a group basis, but there are some soft things you can't see, especially when working in groups can collide with a lot of new ideas and ideas that are out of plan.
图/ Pexels现在最大的感受就是憋得难受，没有安全感。
The biggest feeling you have right now is that you can't feel safe and pent up.
以前我会觉得各种事故和灾难离自己特别远，但这一次好像就在身边。
I used to think that accidents and disasters were too far away from me, but this time it seemed to be right next to me.
另外，我是一个特别喜欢社交的人，每天让我呆在家里，真的很难受。
In addition, I am a special social person, let me stay at home every day, really uncomfortable.
有时候早上趁着买菜的机会出门去大街上遛一遛、人也不多，呼吸的每一口空气都让人觉得是甜的。
Sometimes in the morning while shopping opportunities to take a stroll in the streets, not many people, breathing every breath of air people feel sweet.
目前我们做酒馆的没法线下营业，所以打算线上营业。
At present we can't do off-line business in pubs, so we plan to open online.
酒馆有4个掌柜，从初一开始，每个掌柜每周直播一个小时，通过直播让我重新感觉跟外界有了连接，很开心。
The tavern has 4 cabinets, from the beginning of junior high, each palm cabinet live one hour a week, through the live broadcast let me feel connected with the outside world again, very happy.
我看摩登天空也做了卧室音乐节，这些虽然没法变现，但是都挺好玩。
I see the modern sky and the bedroom music festival, although these can not be realized, but it is quite fun.
但我觉得，不用老想着在家办公和集体办公的区别，把精力focus在你要做的事情上就可以了，也不用太强调时间安排，否则会让自己陷在那个较劲里出不来。
But I don't think much of the difference between working from home and working in a group. Instead, focus on what you need to do. I don't need to put too much emphasis on time management.
工作也是一种社交远程办公很难找到归属感龚思颖 Mor.AI 首席战略官这段时间，不光是工作，其实整个生活都在家里面，跟平时所说的在家办公还是有点区别。
Job is another kind of social telecommuting It's hard to find a sense of belonging Gong Siying Mor.AI Chief Strategic Officer These days, it's not just work.
上周我们专门对全体员工做了一个调研，问了下大家在家办公的情况，大家的回复蛮有意思。
Last week we did a special survey of all the staff, asked the next home office situation, everyone's response is quite interesting.
我们公司70%-80%都是研发人员，在问卷中，大家给远程办公的评分平均达到了8.09分（总分10分），有5%的员工认为甚至超额完成了目标。
Our company scored an average of 8.09 out of 10 on telecommuting in a 70% -80% research and development team, with 5% believing that they had even exceeded the target.
对远程办公的工具，微信多用于沟通，钉钉用来开会和打卡。
For telecommuting tools, tacks are often used for communication, nailing for meetings and card-punching.
腾讯文档和我们自己内部研发的wiki用于文档分享和信息。
Tencent documents and our own in-house wiki are used for document sharing and information.
总结下来，大家觉得在家办公的优势是每日的工作会议反馈比较及时，任务很明确，落实程度较高，减少了非紧急性的打断工作，保持了工作的持续稳定性。
In conclusion, we feel that the advantage of working from home is that the daily working meeting feedback is more timely, the task is clear, the implementation level is high, reduces the non-urgent interruptions and maintains the continuous stability of the work.
内部的沟通也变多了，同合作部门的联系更紧密了。
There has also been more internal communication and closer links with partner departments.
当然也有一些挑战，比如我们要做设备的测试，但测试设备无法共享，没办法去复现很多问题，线上沟通有时候还是不如当面讲，效率有所降低，特别是对近期才刚入职的三五个新员工，适应起来有点困难，以及财务的一些财务软件必须得去公司的电脑操作。
Of course, there are challenges, such as testing equipment, but test equipment cannot be shared, many problems can not be reproduced, online communication is sometimes not as effective as face-to-face, especially for three or five new employees who have only recently entered the job, and some financial software for finance has to go to the company's computer.
图/ Pexels有一件事我们必须得承认，在中国很少有公司会远程办公，中国老板的习惯是更喜欢“监督”员工在做什么，心里才有底。
One thing we have to admit is that very few companies in China do telecommuting, and it is the habit of Chinese bosses to prefer to "monitor" what their employees are doing.
一下子开始远程办公，老板其实会比员工更焦虑。
By starting telecommuting all at once, bosses can actually be more anxious than employees.
同样没有做好准备的还有一些远程协作工具，第一天开工的时候，钉钉和企业微信都崩了，就是一个很好的证明。
Also unprepared are remote collaboration tools, as evidenced by the collapse of nailing and corporate messaging on day one.
工具没有准备好，远程办公效果就会大打折扣。
If the tools are not ready, the telecommuting effect will be greatly reduced.
比如说钉钉，每个人的版本不一样，功能会有一定差异；再比如，线下大家讲白板的时候都喜欢你写几笔我写几笔一起脑暴，但线上的这种云投屏协作的软件就很少有人会去下。
For example, if you write a couple of strokes when you're talking about a whiteboard, very few of the software on the line that works with the cloud will go down.
最近大家的生活肯定都相对单调，在这个时候其实心态很重要。
Recently everybody's life is certainly relatively monotonous, in this time actually the mentality is very important.
我有朋友跟我说现在感觉工作是007，无时无刻都要工作。
I had a friend who told me that it felt like 007 to work all the time.
以前还可以做别的事，现在关在家里，没有理由拒绝工作的要求。
There were other things that could have been done, and there was no reason to refuse a request for work now that you were confined to your home.
但生活还是要继续，你需要把生活变成不只有工作这一件事，否则等到第3周甚至一个月的时候，人会疯掉的。
But life goes on, and you need to make it something more than just a job. Otherwise, by the third week or even a month, people will go mad.
在中国的文化里，工作也是一种社交，远程办公会让员工很难感受到归属感。
In Chinese culture, work is also a form of social interaction. Telecommuting makes it difficult for employees to feel a sense of belonging.
有不少人的朋友就来自于工作伙伴和同事，远程办公会减少这部分交流。
Telecommuting reduces the number of people with friends from work partners and co-workers.
所以回归本质，远程办公最大的挑战，某种程度上不是效率问题，而是文化问题。
So the biggest challenge of telecommuting is not so much efficiency, but culture.
在家坐了半个月的“月子”今天终于能去单位了沈小倩 36岁 上海市江苏商会我们是商会，最近所有企业都是在捐款捐物资，每天的信息都是来自四面八方的，我基本上24小时都在看手机消息。
We are a Chamber of Commerce, and recently all the businesses are donating money and goods. The information comes from all directions every day. I basically read the mobile message 24 hours a day.
忧伤在于，这些这么紧张的工作我都要见缝插针的完成，我也不知道下一秒什么时候小女儿就跳到我的背上，她昨天已经有新的花招了，直接把酸奶洒在我键盘上。
Sadly, I have to finish all these stressful jobs, and I don't know when the next second my little girl will jump on my back. She had a new trick yesterday by sprinkling yogurt directly on my keyboard.
我平时上班的话，一个礼拜也就晚上的一点点时间和周末才出现，现在突然之间天天都在家里，她天天想跟我玩。
When I go to work, a week only comes up for a little bit of the evening and weekends, and now suddenly she's at home every day and wants to play with me every day.
我家里还有个大女儿，我也要盯着她，是不是一会去看iPad，一会又去聊天了，一会儿还得盯着她预习下半学期的课程。
I have a big daughter at home, and I'm going to stare at her, see the iPad later, talk later, and stare at her for the rest of the semester.
每天做广播操、跳绳、跳舞、武术、练琴，每个项目都需要在线打卡，时间排得满满当当。
Every day to do radio exercises, rope skipping, dancing, martial arts, piano, each project needs to be online card, the schedule is full.
图/ Pexels每次都是家里人叫吃饭了，把这两个小的送下去吃饭，我才可以有完整的时间做自己的事情。
/ P Pexels / Pexels Every time it is my family that calls for dinner, send the two little ones down for dinner so that I can have the whole time to do my own thing.
另外在家办公确实电话会议太多了，本来面对面喊一声的事情，就得电话说，还不一定能聊清楚，有些事情你可能刚跟一个人说完，又得跟另外一个人同步。
Also, it's true that there are too many teleconferences. If you want to shout face-to-face, you need to call and say that you may not be able to speak clearly. There are things you might have just said to someone and had to synchronize with another person.
特别涉及到捐助什么的事情，大家都赶时间，本来过年大家都在休息，一直打电话催进度，也有点不好意思。
In particular, involving the donation of something, we are all in a hurry, the New Year everyone had a rest, has been calling to urge progress, also a bit embarrassed.
今天（2月10日）我要复工了，我其实是很支持的。
I have to get back to work today (Feb. 10). I'm actually very supportive.
在家坐了半个月的“月子”，现在商场和街道上一点过年的氛围也没有，真的蛮萧条的，我觉得还是要回去上班比较好。
Sitting at home for half a month, there is no atmosphere in shopping malls and streets for Spring Festival. It's really quite depressed. I think it's better to go back to work.
市场很多链条是环环相扣的，工人不到岗，企业就没法生产。
Many chains in the market are interlocking, and enterprises cannot produce workers until they are laid off.
得出门看看才知道市场里面具体情况如何，不能一直闷在家里。
Have to go out to see what the specific situation in the market, can not always stay at home.
*题图来源于Pexels。
* Topics from Pexels.
应受访者要求，文中胡晴、糖糖、柯柯、小雪、小夕、刘欣为化名。
At the request of interviewees, Hu Qing, Sugar, Kirk, Xiaoxue, Xiaoxi, Liu Xin as aliases.
你期待去公司上班吗？欢迎在评论区留下你的故事，我们会在点赞前三（超过20个）的评论里挑选一位网友，送出腾讯视频季卡一张。
Are you looking forward to going to the office? Welcome to the comments section to leave your story. We'll pick a netizen from the top three (more than 20) comments and send out a Tencent video season card.
文章转载请点击公众号菜单“转载合作”。
The article reproduces please click on the public number menu "reprint cooperation."
一手资讯/硬核报告/每日红包/线下活动！就差你了！快加微信rancaijing02回复“读者”一键上车！。
First-hand information / hardcore reports / daily red packets / offline activities! Not for you! Add micro-mail Rancaijing02 reply "Reader" to get on the bus!
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我想上班，去公司那种！。
I want to go to work, to the company.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "燃财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我想上班，去公司那种！";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; I want to work and go to the company type!
var msg_desc = "在家办公充满诱惑和挑战，把人逼到想去公司上班。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; pushes people to work.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情之下，哪些行业正在逆势爆发？',。
What industry has AT & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '线下教育按下“暂停键”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '9位投资人支招：疫情之下中小企业生存指南',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '情人节档，也没了',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
var title ="燃财经";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & finance & quot;
