我是互联网人，我没有做逃兵。
I'm an internet man. I'm not a deserter.
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
燃财经                      。
Burning finance.
燃财经。
Burning finance.
每天一篇深度报道，重新定义创新经济。
A daily in-depth report redefining the creative economy.
。
.
《战疫口述记》，是燃财经在新型冠状病毒肺炎期间推出的特别栏目，记录疫情亲历者的观察和感受。
"Oral Proceedings of the Battle Disease" is a special column introduced by the Finance during the new coronavirus pneumonia to record the observation and feelings of those who have experienced the epidemic.
本文为第6篇，查看前5篇请点击《我和公司都快熬不住了》《节后返京，太太太南了》《我的“流浪”春节》《农村这样防肺炎》《我在武汉战肺炎》。
I and the company are going to be unable to make it back to Beijing after the festival, wife too South, my "vagrant" Spring Festival, such as the countryside to prevent pneumonia, I fight pneumonia in Wuhan.
作者 | 闫丽娇 孔明明 黎明唐亚华 苏琦 孟亚娜 金玙璠编辑 |魏佳一场突如其来的疫情，让本应该在春节休息的很多人，继续坚守在了工作岗位。
Yan-lijiao Kong Ming Dawn Tang Yahua Suqi Mengyana Jinzhan Fan editor & # 45; & # 45; A sudden outbreak of Wei Jia caused many people who were supposed to rest at the Spring Festival to stay at their jobs.
特殊时期，他们成了最美逆行者。
In special times, they have become the most beautiful inverse.
疫情仍在蔓延，武汉之外，很多城市加强了疫情防御力度，全民宅在家中，但生活还在继续。
The epidemic is still spreading. Outside Wuhan, many cities have stepped up their efforts to prevent the disease.
每天的必需品，总要有人送到家中；为减少公共出行，总要有网约车提供服务；物资运输需要车也需要人；而那些被阻隔在外的异乡人，也需要一个临时的庇护所。
Everyday necessities must be brought home; to reduce public travel, there must always be a contractual vehicle to provide services; transport of goods requires both vehicles and people; and isolated aliens need a temporary shelter.
在这个春节，许多陌生人为奋斗在一线的医护人员送去关怀，也有无数送餐员和快递员冒着风险承接温暖，将线上的“加油”变成线下的行动。
In this Spring Festival, many strangers to struggle in the front-line medical personnel to care, but also countless delivery staff and express workers take the risk of accepting warmth, the online "refuelling" into offline action.
临近春节，口罩需求极速上涨，成都闪送小哥选择留了下来，自费买了2000个口罩给同样坚持工作的兄弟们，并且为医护人员提供免费医疗用品配送；武汉疫情开始严重，滴滴武汉医护保障车队还在不停为医护人员提供接送服务；为了给滞留客人和医护人员一个临时落脚处，有酒店老板劝走员工，自己还在坚持营业......如果不是疫情，我们可能对这些服务已经习以为常。
With demand for masks soaring near the Spring Festival, Chengdu flash brother chose to stay, buy 2, 000 masks at his own expense to his brothers, and provide free medical supplies to medical staff. Wuhan began to serious epidemic, drip-drip medical support convoys continue to provide medical personnel, to stranded guests and medical staff, hotel owners advised staff to stay business... if not for the epidemic, we might have become accustomed to these services.
其实他们早已成为城市正常运转不可或缺的一环，在我们最需要时，总有人逆风坚持。
In fact, they have become an indispensable part of the normal functioning of the city, when we need it most, there is always someone against the wind insist.
今天，我们记录下这8个普通人的故事。
Today, we are recording the story of these eight ordinary people.
每天接触医护人员感觉自己就在一线张禹家 29岁 武汉锦汉商务酒店老板武汉封城后我们酒店的订单全部退了，只留下两位滞留的客人。
Every day contact with medical personnel feel on the first line Zhang Yun 29-year-old Wuhan Jinhan Business Hotel owner Wuhan after the closure of our hotel orders all returned, leaving only two stranded guests.
考虑到风险，我让员工全部放假回家，我一个人留守。
Considering the risks, I let the staff all leave home, I left alone.
后来看到新闻报道武汉疫情很严重，很多小视频里医护人员在哭，我妈妈看到视频也跟着一起哭。
Later I saw news reports of a serious epidemic in Wuhan, many of the small video in the medical personnel crying, my mother saw the video crying along with it.
由于市内交通也被封了，有护士到协和医院上班步行得两个小时，我心里很不是滋味。
As the city's transportation was also blocked, I was not comfortable with a nurse walking to Concorde Hospital for two hours.
正好网上有几百家酒店发起了免费给医护人员提供住宿的活动，我们酒店就在武汉市第一医院、武汉市第四医院、同济医院、协和医院中间，我看了一下已报名的医院基本没有我们这片区域的，可能因为离医院近，风险比较高。
Just in time, hundreds of hotels on the Internet have launched activities to provide free accommodation for medical staff.Our hotel is right between Wuhan First Hospital, Wuhan Fourth Hospital, Tongji Hospital and Concorde Hospital.
我就决定把酒店开了免费给医护人员住。
I decided to open the hotel for free to the paramedics.
大年初一开始，就有人入住了，我这边住的都是协和医院的医护人员，总共提供了51间房，基本是一间房一个人。
At the beginning of New Year's Day, someone moved in, I live here is Concorde Hospital medical personnel, provided a total of 51 rooms, basically a room one person.
我自己把前台、卫生、开门接待都包了，工作量不算很大，就是熬人。
I myself to the front desk, sanitation, open the door to the reception, the workload is not very large, is the boil.
每天白天我要打扫整个公共区域的卫生，喷消毒水。
Every day I clean the entire public area and spray disinfectant.
因为医护人员的上下班时间不一定，24小时都有人进出，我得随时给他们开门，平均每晚上都要起来五六次。
I had to open them at any time, on average five or six times a night, because the staff did not always have the time to get to and from work.
这些天我基本就待在前台、大厅，没睡过完整的觉，有机会就眯一会。
These days I basically stay in front desk, hall, did not sleep complete sleep, have a chance to squint for a while.
我基本24小时戴口罩，耳朵都被“拉到前面”来了，有一次我做梦都戴着口罩。
I wore a mask for nearly 24 hours, my ears "pulled to the front," and once I dreamt of wearing a mask.
疫情是很严重，我也很担心，但其实在酒店开放一两天之后，我越来越放心了。
The outbreak was severe and I was worried, but after a day or two at the hotel, I became more and more reassured.
虽然他们是高危人群，但入住之后，对我的保护做得特别好。
Although they are a high-risk group, but after the arrival of my protection has been particularly good.
医护人员基本上跟我没有交流、接触，有时候看到我在前台吃饭，会主动离得再远一点，也不在公共区域停留，从房间出来就去上班，一直都戴着口罩。
Medical staff and I basically do not communicate, contact, sometimes see me eating in the front desk, will not stay in the public area, from the room to work, has been wearing masks.
进来的时候，我需要核对身份看一下他们的证件，他们给我时会用自己备的消毒水消完毒再给我。
When I come in, I need to check their papers, And they're gonna give me their own disinfectant to get rid of the poison.
图 / Pexels我经常能看到有人晚上过来，刚上去没多久，接到电话又往外跑；也听到有人跟家里视频，说自己要报名调往协和西院一线，家里人不同意，她说武汉现在这个情况，所有人都要去一线的；还有一对夫妻都是协和医院的，住一个房间，后来丈夫跟我发微信说他要被调到一线，担心传染给妻子，想要单独分一个房间给他。
I often see people coming in the evening, not long after they get a call and run outside. They also hear a video from home saying they want to sign up for the Western Concord courtyard. The family disagrees.
近距离的接触他们之后，真的感觉他们很不容易，加了这些人的微信后，我每天看他们发的朋友圈，感觉自己就在一线。
Close contact with them, they really feel that they are not easy, after these people's micro-letters, I look at their circle of friends every day, feel that they are in the line.
说实话，我一个青壮劳力在家里窝着也待不住，这个时候我能出一点力就想出一点。
To tell you the truth, I can't stay at home with a young laborer, and I can think of something with a little effort.
我能看到武汉的疫情是真的严重，我们酒店门口是三面玻璃，整个小区的情况看得一清二楚。
I can see the epidemic situation in Wuhan is really serious, our hotel door is three-sided glass, the whole community to see clearly.
每天我都能看到小区有人被拖出去，听到外面路上救护车的声音，这种情况下我觉得我做点什么都比窝在家里强，也许我在家更焦虑。
Every day I can see people being dragged out of the neighborhood and hear ambulances on the road outside. In this situation I think I can do anything better than stay at home. Maybe I am more anxious at home.
我就想着医护人员能休息好，能更好保护他们自己，也有更多的精力去救治病人，疫情也能够尽快结束。
I was thinking that the paramedics could rest better, protect themselves better, have more energy to treat patients, and end the epidemic as soon as possible.
这个春节，酒店经营上“惨不忍睹”，但是对我个人来说我觉得辛苦但有意义。
This Spring Festival, the hotel business "miserable", but for me personally I feel hard but meaningful.
这个时候，我们不上谁上呢？熊伟 36岁 滴滴武汉医护保障车队司机我是外地人，但和家人在武汉定居，本来今年春节我准备好好休息、带家人出去旅游。
Xiong Wei 36-year-old Wuhan medical care team driver I am a stranger, but my family settled in Wuhan, this Spring Festival I was ready to take a good rest, take the family out for a trip.
我之前是名地产经纪人，做网约车司机有一年左右。
I used to be a real estate agent, working as a netcar driver for about a year.
腊月二十九，我收到滴滴招募司机的通知，立刻报了名，当时想着能尽一部分社会责任，除夕那天，我们去领了装备，包括护目镜、 防护服、口罩、手套等。
On New Year's Eve, when I received a call from the drip-dripping driver, I immediately signed up, thinking that we could do part of our social responsibilities. On New Year's Eve, we went to get equipment, including goggles, protective clothing, masks, gloves, etc.
在接送医护人员时，遇到很多感人的事情。
There were a lot of moving things when I picked up the paramedics.
记得有一天我送一名护士进隔离病房，她丈夫送她去医院的时候，满眼泛着泪花，他说他们家有两个小孩，大的七岁，小的两岁不到，有很多担心，但那名护士说，这个时候，我们不上谁上呢？当时对他们肃然起敬。
I remember the day I sent a nurse to the isolation ward and her husband saw her to the hospital with tears in his eyes. He said they had two children, seven years old and two years younger.
图/ Pexels我们车队大约有200人，每天早上6点左右出门，晚上10点后收工，平均每天接10单左右，医护人员在滴滴上有专门的打车通道。
Photo / Pexels We have a fleet of about 200 people who leave the house around 6 a. m., close down after 10 p. m., take in about 10 tickets a day on average, and have special taxis on the drip.
在上岗之前，我们都经过了专门的培训，严格按照实际情况对自己进行防护，口罩、防护服、手套、护目镜都会穿戴，车辆在接触一个人之后也会立刻消毒。
Before we took office, we were specially trained to protect ourselves in strict accordance with the actual situation, wearing masks, protective clothing, gloves, goggles, and disinfecting vehicles immediately after they come into contact with a person.
这样做不仅是对自己负责，也是对医护人员和家人负责。
This is not only self-responsible, but also accountable to health-care providers and their families.
家人当然会担心我，说不担心都是骗人的，但他们也表示理解。
Of course my family would worry about me, saying it was deceitful not to worry, but they also understood.
我现在不在家睡觉，平台给我们安排统一住宿的地方，正月初七我甚至自己自费住了酒店。
I do not sleep at home now, the platform for us to arrange a unified accommodation place, January 7 I even self-financed hotel.
也不是所有司机都会这样，但像我这种家里有老人和小孩的肯定不行，因为我们每天都跟高危人群接触，即便任务结束也要隔离14天才能回家。
Not all drivers do, but a family like mine with old people and children is definitely not, because we are in daily contact with high-risk groups and will not be able to return home until 14 days after the mission is over.
这些在接受车队任务前我已经都做好了准备。
I'm ready for this before I take on the mission.
住的地方不能做饭，每天要么吃便当，要么吃泡面和零食。
Living place cannot cook, every day either eat convenient, or eat noodles and snacks.
既然社会有需要，虽然我不是武汉本地人，但武汉算是我的第二家乡，应该为家乡尽自己的绵薄之力。
Since the social need, although I am not Wuhan native, but Wuhan is my second hometown, should do their own modest contribution to the hometown.
有些事情总需要人做，身边的很多人和事也在鞭策着我继续坚持下去。
Some things always need to be done, around a lot of people and things are also urging me to continue to insist.
看着医护人员每天一脸疲惫的下班，我觉得我有责任和义务将他们安全送回家。
Watching the paramedics leave work tired every day, I feel it my duty and obligation to take them home safely.
现在武汉的确诊人数依然在增加、医护人员奋斗在一线、物资依然极度缺乏。
Now the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan is still increasing, the struggle of medical personnel in the first line, supplies are still extremely scarce.
我们只是很小的一部分人，最辛苦的还是在病房里工作的一线护士和医生。
We are a very small group of people, and the hardest work is the front-line nurses and doctors working in the wards.
他们也都是别人的丈夫、爸爸、儿子、女儿、妈妈，有的现在却连最基本的防护都得不到。
They are also their husbands, dads, sons, daughters, mothers, and some are now without even the most basic protection.
希望大家能够早日度过难关。
I hope we can get through this soon.
我们的家人还在等着我们回家，千千万万的家庭还在等着团聚。
Our families are still waiting for us to go home, and thousands of families are waiting to be reunited.
以前做事为了自己今天做点不一样的杨俊 33岁 滴滴武汉医护保障车队司机		我今年本来计划在武汉过春节，初四左右回老家走亲戚。
I was planning to spend the Spring Festival in Wuhan this year and return to my hometown on or about April 4.
1月23日下午五点，朋友给我转发了滴滴招募车队司机的微信群截图，问我有没有收到消息，当时要求是下午三点半之前报名。
At 5: 00 p.m. on January 23, my friend forwarded me a microscopic view of the drip-dripping motorcade driver, asking if I had received word that the request had been made by 3: 30 p.m.
我之前没看到消息，后来又去找滴滴的人，居然报上了。
I hadn't seen the news before, and then I went looking for the drip, and it was in the paper.
最开始上线时，是通过人工派单，26日下午三点，滴滴上线了专门给医护人员的通道，可以开始系统派单。
The first time to go online, is through manual dispatching, 26 p.m., dripping onto the line dedicated to medical personnel, you can start the system distribution.
加入保障车队其实没想太多，就是想做点自己能够做的事情，开车送人本来就是我每天的工作。
I don't really want to be part of the guaranteed team. I just want to do something I can do. It's what I do every day.
杨俊与接送医护人员的合照 来源 / 受访者我知道有一个司机为了加入车队，专门从老家赶回来，是我们这里面的跑单王。
source / interviewee I know a driver who has come back from his hometown to join the team. He is the only one among us.
虽然平台有统一安排住宿，但他有时候会太忙，经常工作到很晚，直接在自己的车里休息，很辛苦。
Although the platform has centralized accommodation, he is sometimes too busy, often working late and resting directly in his car.
我们看了也挺心疼。
It hurt when we saw it.
我现在住家里，独自一个房间、自行隔离。
I am now living in the house, alone in a room, isolated.
面对疫情，家人肯定担心，但开始接医护人员后，他们表现的特别专业，对于防护消毒都很小心仔细，下车前把自己能接触到的地方都喷上消毒水。
The family must have been worried about the outbreak, but when they started to pick up the paramedics, they were very professional and careful about the protective disinfection. They sprayed disinfectant on everything they could touch before getting out of the car.
我跟家人说，我们每天接送医护人员的安全系数其实挺高，家人也会慢慢理解。
I told my family that the safety factor we use to transport our staff every day was high and would be understood by family members.
接第一位乘坐的医护人员时，她在车上突然问我贵姓，我随口说自己姓杨，没想到自己名字居然在她朋友圈里出现了，非常感动。
When the first medical staff, she suddenly asked me in the car expensive surname, I casually said his surname Yang, did not expect her name in her circle of friends, very moved.
前期我在车上会跟医护人员聊聊天，现在很少聊了。
I would talk to the paramedics in the car in the early days, but I seldom talk now.
因为有一次接医护人员下班时，车里放了音乐，突然我发现医护人员睡着了，从那以后我在医护人员上车后，顶多打个招呼，不去打扰他们，如果他们睡着的话，导航的声音我都会全部关掉，让他们好好休息。
Because once I picked up paramedics from work and there was music in the car, and suddenly I noticed that the paramedics were asleep, and since then I've been on the train at best, not bothering them, and if they're asleep, I'll turn off all navigation and give them a good rest.
医护人员发朋友圈感谢杨俊 来源 / 受访者在我出任务之前，电视里面所出现的画面几乎都是我们感觉不到的，只会感觉医护人员很辛苦、很忙，但自从开始接送医护人员后，感觉到电视里面的人物形象，变成了活生生的人出现在自己面前。
Medical Staff Friends Circle ThankyYeung Sik Yuen source / interviewee Before I went on assignment, almost all of the images on TV were invisible to us. We only felt that the medical staff were very hard-working and busy.
自己这么多年做事都是为了自己，今天做了点不一样的事儿，哪怕跟电视上那些人比起来少之又少，但多少有些价值。
Having done things for myself for so many years, I've done something different today, even if it's less valuable than the ones on TV.
况且这件事情总要有人去做，我只是他们其中的一员。
Besides, it's something that has to be done. I'm just one of them.
大家默默不说话、减少接触但又彼此需要、彼此支持陈建 28岁 城市便捷酒店六渡桥店店长我们酒店目前接待的是武汉第一人民医院的医护人员，还有街道的社区医院的医护人员，大概有50多人。
We Silently Talk, Less Contact But Need Each Other, Support One another Chen Jian 28-year-old City Convenient Hotel Six Door Bridge Shop Manager Our hotel currently caters for medical staff from Wuhan First People's Hospital, as well as hospital staff from the community hospital on the street.
封城前，我们酒店自愿留了5个人守店，两个前台，两个保安，还有我。
In front of the city, our hotel voluntarily left five people to guard the store, two front desk, two security guards, and me.
我是店长，今年28岁，两个前台比我年纪还小，大家也都不是湖北本地人，春节期间大家都一起住在酒店里面，为医护人员提供服务。
I am a 28-year-old shop director, two receptionists are younger than me, and everyone is not a native of Hubei. During the Spring Festival, we all stay together in the hotel to provide services to the medical staff.
我们仅有一人会做饭，就拿一些酒店厨房储存的库存弄点东西吃，慢慢的就没什么青菜了，大多都是一些冷冻食品，除夕夜那天就吃了一天饺子。
We only one person can cook, take some of the stock in the hotel kitchen to get something to eat, slowly there is no green vegetables, most are some frozen food, New Year's Eve ate dumplings on the day.
上个月物资比较紧缺，后来区域经理及东呈总部湖北战区领导和街道办事处配备了一些物资，缓解了部分压力。
Supplies were scarce last month, and later the regional manager and the eastern section of the Hubei War Office were equipped with supplies to relieve some of the pressure.
白天我们志愿者会主动配合区域给各门店送物资，然后回到店面帮忙，一般要忙到晚上12点，很多事情都需要随时线上沟通，电话24小时开机，随时都可能有事情，同城兄弟门店有需要物资的，我们志愿者小组都会第一时间对接及配送。
During the day, our volunteers would work with the area to deliver supplies to the stores and then go back to the store to help them. They were usually busy until 12: 00 p. m. many things needed to be communicated on the line.
医护人员也比较注意，尽量不跟我们接触，有需要的东西就在微信群里和我们说，我们把东西放大厅，他们自己去领，一些生活垃圾，他们自己上班时就带走了，也不让我们碰，他们也在尽量减少我们的工作量。
The paramedics were also careful not to touch us, and what was needed was told us in the micro-mail, that we put things in the lobby, that they picked up some household rubbish, that they took with them when they went to work, that we were not allowed to touch them, and that they were trying to minimize our workload.
现在市内也不让开车，他们就骑单车或走路上下班。
Now they're not allowed to drive in the city, so they ride bicycles or walk to and from work.
图/ Pexels很难想象，这么大一个酒店，大家都默默的不说话，减少接触，但又彼此需要、彼此支持、彼此关心，有的时候甚至会有一种家的感觉。
It's hard to imagine a hotel this size where people would sit back and talk less, yet still need each other, support each other, care for each other and sometimes feel like home.
家里人每天都要叮嘱我别出门，我没有实话实说，因为目前的形势真的很危险，天天和这些医护人员接触，也加大了交叉感染的可能性，只能骗他们说我在出租屋里休息。
Every day my family told me not to go out. I couldn't tell the truth, because the situation was really dangerous, and daily contact with these doctors and nurses increased the possibility of cross-infection and led them to believe that I was resting in a rental house.
有一次我们去运送物资，微信的步数有上万步，晚上就被我爸妈看到了，立马一个电话打过来问我怎么到处乱跑。
Once we went to deliver goods, micro-letter step by step tens of thousands of steps, at night my parents saw, immediately a phone call to ask me how to run around.
我只能说我在家里做运动、锻炼身体，好说歹说才让他们相信了。
All I can say is that I work out and exercise at home and convince them of that.
我们接待的医护人员，有的是跟集团对接的需求，有的是跟社区对接的需求，也有医生自己打电话过来预约的。
We host medical personnel, some with the group docking needs, some with the community docking needs, or doctors themselves call to make appointments.
这样的需求其实非常大，24小时电话不停的轰炸，我们能提供的也有限，尽可能的把服务做到位，但很多时候都觉得自己做的还不够。
The demand is huge, 24-hour phone bombing, we can provide limited, as much as possible to do the service, but often feel that they have not done enough.
说实话心里也害怕，我每天要接触很多人，只能尽可能地去做好防范，我也得保障我们店里工作人员的安全，剩下的我们5个员工，得一直撑到整个城市解封之后，才有更多的人手回来帮忙。
To tell you the truth, I have to deal with a lot of people every day, I have to take precautions as much as I can, and I have to ensure the safety of our staff.
我现在只能把班安排的稍微轻松一点。
I can only make the shift a little easier now.
之前是12个小时轮着值班，这样的话人是受不了的，也可能导致太累而抵抗力下降。
It used to be 12 hours on duty, which was too much for people to bear. It could also lead to fatigue and reduced resistance.
后来我们就根据医护人员的作息排班，加上区域的志愿者帮忙顶班。
Then we set up the shift according to the medical staff, plus volunteers from the region to help cover the shift.
晚上10点到早上7点，基本没人能进出酒店时，就让区域志愿者或保安值班，不安排前台，白天换前台上。
From 10: 00 pm to 7: 00 am, when the basic no one can enter the hotel, let the regional volunteers or security guards on duty, do not arrange the front desk, day change front desk.
有了区域志愿者的帮助，店面员工也可以得到休息。
With the help of regional volunteers, storefront workers can also get a break.
我只是尽自己所能，给城市提供一些帮助。
I'm just doing what I can to help the city.
都到这个时候了，每个人都得奉献自己的力量，我能做的也就是为医护人员提供住宿，让他们安心的在一线为病人治疗。
At this point, everyone has to contribute their own strength, I can do is to provide medical staff accommodation, so that they can safely treat patients on the front line.
希望武汉病情能早点得到控制，整个城市能快点正常运转起来。
It is hoped that Wuhan disease can be controlled earlier, the whole city can run normally soon.
非常时期的订单一定是急用的，我必须送朱大贵 50岁 达达快送骑士大年初一（1月25日）早上10点左右，我看到平台上挂着两个由餐馆配送到武汉武昌医院的订单。
The order must be urgent, I must send Zhu Dagui 50 years old Dada Knight New Year's Day (January 25) around 10: 00 a.m., I saw two restaurants on the platform distribution to Wuhan Wuchang Hospital orders.
骑士不接医院订单是免责的，这个医院又是武汉中心城区发热患者定点医院。
Cavaliers do not accept hospital orders are exempt, this hospital is Wuhan central city district fever patients point hospitals.
两个订单一直挂着，没有人接。
Two orders have been hanging and no one is answering them.
我电话沟通后才知道，这两单是远在浙江的网友给武汉武昌医院的医生、护士点的外卖。
I only know after the telephone communication, these two are far away in Zhejiang to Wuhan Wuchang Hospital doctors, nurses point of take-out.
他们通过网络看到武汉一线医务人员的年夜饭连口热饭都没有，想出这一招，嘱咐我自行分配给医院的医护人员。
They saw Wuhan through the network of front-line medical staff dinner even hot meal, came up with this move, I was instructed to allocate to the hospital medical staff.
我想，素不相识的网友都这么好心，这两单我必须送到。
I think, the netizens who do not know each other are so kind, these two I must send.
等我赶到餐馆，老板刚要取消订单，因为迟迟没人接单，订餐量又大，50杯豆浆、30份煎饺，等候时间很长。
By the time I got to the restaurant, the boss was about to cancel the order because of the delay in getting the order and the volume of the order being large, 50 cups of soya-bean milk and 30 fried dumplings.
我说，“你尽管做，不要紧，我等着。
I said, "Whatever you do, it doesn't matter. I'll wait.
”120急救中心、接诊大厅测体温处、挂号处、发热门诊、药房这些地方，我一袋一袋送完才从医院跑出来。
I ran out of the hospital in bags at the first aid centre, in the reception hall, at the registration office, at the fever clinic, at the pharmacy.
我说明原委，医生护士们双手合十表示感谢，我只能不断地说：“我只是代劳的。
As I explained, the doctors and nurses thanked me with both hands. All I could say was, "I'm only doing it for you.
”最近平台上的订单，多数是医药用品和蔬果。
Most of the orders on the platforms recently were for medical supplies and fruits and vegetables.
有次给一个发热的客户送药，对方电话里说：“我有点不舒服，你最好不要接触”，我马上就懂了，我们现在每天按照公司规定出门做好防护，进家做好消毒，平台也推出了无接触配送服务。
Once I gave medicine to a hot customer and the caller said, "I'm not feeling well, you'd better not touch it." I immediately understood that we are going out to do a good job of protecting and disinfecting our homes in accordance with the company's policy.
还有次我给一个客户送药，小区门口的保安不让进，客户说，没买到口罩，不能出门。
Another time I sent medicine to a customer, the security guard in front of the community refused to enter, the customer said, do not buy a mask, can not go out.
这类事情我已经见怪不怪了，小区有小区的规定，客户有客户的难处，我们只能两边说好话。
This kind of thing I already saw no surprise, small community has the regulation, the customer has the customer's difficulty, we can only say two side good words.
图/ 视觉中国昨天（1月31日），一个客户指定要买某个超市的青菜，但已经售罄了，我视频通话给他看了超市的情况，他说，“那麻烦你帮忙想想办法。
2007-9-24 16: 19 [hide] Yesterday in China, a customer asked to buy vegetables from a supermarket but it was sold out. I showed him a video call about the supermarket.
”市场都关门了，我就到社区附近去碰运气，结果真的找到了小商贩，最后把客户点名要的菜送到了他的手上。
When the market closed, I went to the neighborhood to try my luck, but I did find the seller, who eventually delivered the dishes the customer had asked for.
因为疫情，这段时间平台上的订单很少，多数是零散又难跑的单。
Because of the epidemic, there were few orders on the platform during this period, most of which were scattered and difficult to run.
去年这个时候，我每天接50单以上，跑的也比较轻松，现在一天跑20多单，东一单西一单，一天跑160公里左右，电动车每天要换两次电池。
At this time last year, I received more than 50 tickets a day and ran more easily. Now I run more than 20 single tickets a day, running 160 kilometers a day, and I change batteries twice a day.
老婆、儿子都不希望我非常时期出来跑，说实话，我也不在乎那几个钱，但是非常时期的订单一定是急用的，所以我一直在平台上挂着，只要有单我就接，能帮忙送就帮忙送，能代买就去买。
My wife and son do not want me to run out of time, to be honest, I do not care about the money, but the emergency order must be urgent, so I have been hanging on the platform, as long as I can pick up, can help to deliver, can buy on behalf of the purchase.
最近很多客户专门打电话过来表达感谢，说“不敢相信现在还有骑手在送”，我才发现自己做的事情原来有这么大价值。
Recently, a lot of customers called to express their thanks and said, "I can't believe there are still riders out there," and I realized that what I was doing was so valuable.
到2020年，我来武汉30年了，遇到的99%的人都是善良的，我想我会一直送下去。
By 2020, I come to Wuhan 30 years, encountered 99% of the people are good, I think I will be sent down.
一些事情发生的时候我立马想到作为军人的使命黄巍 80后 成都闪送小哥今年本来是打算回老家的，但是大年三十前，爆发了疫情，就没有回去了。
When something happened, I immediately thought of the mission as a serviceman Huang Wei 80 years after Chengdu flash brother was originally intended to return home this year, but about 30 years ago, an outbreak of the outbreak, did not go back.
闪送没有加班一说，都是自由制的。
There's no overtime on the flash drive. It's all free.
临近春节当时有很多客户委托我去帮他们买口罩，我感觉到疫情的严重性，选择留了下来。
Near Spring Festival when many customers entrusted me to help them buy masks, I felt the severity of the epidemic, chose to stay.
刚开始有一些人觉得我是在作秀，但这些天身边的很多兄弟姐妹，陆续都加入到我的队伍中了。
At first some people thought I was showing off, but these days many of my brothers and sisters were joining me.
我们都希望能够尽自己力所能及的事情，帮这个城市做一些事情。
We all want to do what we can to help the city do something.
这段时间是医疗物资比较短缺的时候，社会上有一些人自愿捐给医院的医疗用品，医生们也有一些想闪送回家的生活用品，我都是免费帮他们配送的。
It was a time when there was a shortage of medical supplies, there were people in the community who volunteered medical supplies to hospitals, and doctors had things they wanted to send home, and I distributed them free of charge.
图为黄师傅的闪送车辆 来源 / 受访者我觉得目前来看，一线人员的心态还是比较好的。
Source / Interviewee: Shifu Huang's Flash Vehicle Source / Interviewee: At present, I think the mentality of frontline personnel is better.
在这种时候，如果你过于紧张，会给别人造成影响。
At times like this, if you're too nervous, it can have an impact on others.
我在送客户订单的时候，都是带着笑容。
When I send orders to customers, I always smile.
家里人对我很担心，但我觉得只要做好防护，没什么问题。
My family was worried about me, but I felt that as long as I was well protected, there was nothing wrong.
特殊时期，大家对物资配送的需求量非常大，总需要有人去做这些事。
Special period, everybody is very big demand of material distribution, need somebody to do these things always.
况且考虑到疫情传播的危险性，由我们小部分人来为大家跑腿，总比大多数人都在外面跑好。
Besides, considering the danger of spreading the epidemic, it is better for a small number of us to run errands for you than for most people.
年前我自费囤了2000个口罩，今天（接受采访当日）没有跑单，专门负责监督骑手们的防护，给他们送口罩。
I paid for 2,000 masks a year ago, and today (interview day) didn't run a list to supervise riders' protective clothing and give them face masks.
特殊时期，大家其实都非常担忧，我能做的是尽力保障他们的安全。
In special times, everyone is really worried. What I can do is to do my best to keep them safe.
公司也给我们很大的支持，给我们做了一些疫情防护知识培训。
The company has also given us a lot of support, we have done some epidemic protection knowledge training.
除口罩之外，我们会佩戴保护头盔，而且身上也会准备酒精，一天下来我会洗5-7次手。
In addition to masks, we wear protective helmets and have alcohol on our bodies. I wash hands five to seven times a day.
这段时间口罩、酒精和一些食品的需求量非常大，我们和一些商家互相帮助，他们给我们提供防护物资，作为回报，我们免费给他们配送物资。
There is a huge demand for masks, alcohol and some foods these days. We help each other with some businesses. They give us protective equipment in return for which we distribute supplies free of charge.
配送过程中，我们会尽量避免和客户产生接触，做好随时消毒的防护措施。
During the delivery process, we will try to avoid contact with customers, ready to disinfect the protection measures.
我现在每天工作10个小时以上，大多都是免费的配送订单。
I now work more than 10 hours a day, mostly free distribution orders.
春节结束后，我可能会简单调整一两天，但其实我觉得没有特别累。
After the Spring Festival, I may make a simple adjustment for a day or two, but I don't feel particularly tired.
让我坚持做这件事最大的动力，是责任感。
Let me insist on doing this thing the greatest motivation, is a sense of responsibility.
作为一名退役军人，虽然我现在脱下军装了，但每当看到别人发生一些事情的时候，还是会立马想到自己作为军人的使命。
As an ex-serviceman, although I have now taken off my uniform, whenever I see something happen to someone else, I immediately think of my duty as a soldier.
武汉加油，中国加油！我是一个普通配送员但我体现了自己的价值刘成江 46岁 每日优鲜配送员我是每日优鲜在天津的一名配送员。
Wuhan refueling, China refueling! I am an ordinary distributor but I reflect their own value Liu Chengjiang 46-year-old daily outstanding distributor I am a daily Youxin distribution clerk in Tianjin.
今年春节，每日优鲜不打烊，我没有回老家，整个假期都在配送。
This Spring Festival, daily fresh do not close, I did not return home, the entire holiday distribution.
因为疫情的原因，大家都不出门了，超市的蔬菜水果涨价，所以很多人都通过每日优鲜这样的电商平台来买菜买水果。
Because of the epidemic, everyone did not go out, supermarket vegetables and fruits prices, so many people through the daily good such as the electric business platform to buy fruit.
从初二初三开始，我们站点的订单量一下暴增。
From the beginning of the third day of junior high, our site orders a sudden surge.
出去送货的时候，我一次最多可以接28单，电动车上挂的到处都是，货架、扶手、踏板，全部都挂的是货，每天回家基本都是十点以后。
When I go out to deliver goods, I can pick up up to 28 tickets at a time, electric cars hang everywhere, shelves, handrails, pedals, all hanging goods, every day home is basically after 10 o'clock.
来源 / 受访者我每天早上七点到店里，公司会给我们发口罩、手套、消毒液，出发前要给车辆消毒。
Source / Interviewee: When I arrive at the store at 7 a.m. every morning, we are given masks, gloves, disinfectant and disinfected before we leave.
但是疫情还是给我们的配送带来了困难。
But the epidemic still makes it difficult for us to deliver.
有时候到小区门口，保安大哥不让进，这个时候通常是打电话让客户自己下来拿，但有时候客户也不下来，所以有时候会僵在这里。
Sometimes to the door of the community, the big brother security not to enter, this time is usually to call customers down to pick up, but sometimes customers do not come down, so sometimes frozen here.
我有一个客户是外国人，我给他送了三年了。
One of my clients is a foreigner, and I gave it to him for three years.
对方不会中文，之前每次配送，都是当我到楼下了，我拨一下他的电话，他给我按电梯，然后我送上楼去。
He didn't speak Chinese. Every time I delivered it, it was when I got downstairs that I dialed his phone. He pushed the elevator for me and I sent it upstairs.
但是春节期间，他的小区不让配送员进去，他对这个情况不知道。
But during the Spring Festival, his neighborhood would not allow distribution workers in, and he did not know about it.
我给他打电话，打了三四回，他不知道要下楼来拿。
I called him three or four times and he didn't know he was coming downstairs to get it.
最后没办法，我让我们站长编辑了一个英文短信，我发给对方，对方才下楼来拿。
Finally, I asked our stationmaster to edit an English text message, I sent it to each other, the other party just came downstairs to get it.
我的老家是辽宁沈阳的，在天津十多年，在每日优鲜工作四年。
My hometown is from Shenyang, Liaoning Province, working in Tianjin for more than ten years.
今年春节，一方面是想要趁着假期多赚点钱，另外我觉得公司需要我的时候，我应该站出来，因为春节期间公司人手紧张。
This Spring Festival, on the one hand, want to take advantage of the holiday to make more money, and I think the company needs me, I should stand out, because the company is tight during the Spring Festival.
这段时间，公司每天发两到三个口罩，让我们量两次体温。
During this time, the company sends out two or three masks a day, let us take temperature twice.
我们确实是冒着生命危险在配送，因为你不知道送货的过程中会接触什么人。
We're really risking our lives in distribution because you don't know who you're going to get in touch with during delivery.
如果跟生命相比，这点钱确实不算什么。
This is a small amount of money compared to life.
但工作毕竟还是需要有人去做，社会不能因为疫情就停止正常运转。
But work still needs to be done, and society cannot stop functioning because of the epidemic.
跟一线的医生相比，我们的危险要小得多。
We're much less at risk than front-line doctors.
我虽然只是一个普通的配送员，但我觉得在这种关键时刻，我体现了自己的价值。
I'm just a regular distributor, but I feel I'm worth it at this critical moment.
每天早上，我骑着电动车出去送货的时候，看到街上都没几个人，其实我的心里还是挺不好受的。
Every morning, when I rode out to deliver goods, I saw few people in the street, in fact, my heart is still very uncomfortable.
我希望通过所有人的努力，让这种状态尽快过去。
I hope that, through the efforts of all, this state of affairs will soon pass.
我所做的事情对于社会而言可能是微不足道的，我可能也起不了太大作用，但是当客户对我们所做的事情，表示理解和赞赏的时候，我心里就有很大的力量。
What I do may seem trivial to society, and I may not be of much use, but I have a lot of power when customers show understanding and appreciation for what we do.
这段时间，很多客户给我打赏，每次送货送到了，客户都会说谢谢辛苦了。
This time, many customers give me a reward, every time the delivery of goods, customers will say thank you hard.
还有客户问我有没有口罩，从家里拿出口罩送给我。
Another client asked me if I had a mask and gave it to me from home.
每当这个时候，我就觉得有一种力量在支持我们继续走下去。
At such times, I feel a kind of strength to support us to go on.
不能让战士饿着肚子去打仗周师傅 48岁 货拉拉平台司机我是湖北孝昌人，目前定居武汉，是货拉拉平台上的认证司机。
Warriors can not go to war hungry master 48-year-old Lala platform driver I am Hubei Xiaochang, is now settled in Wuhan, cargo Lala platform certification driver.
春节前武汉封城，我就加入了货拉拉支援武汉的救援队伍，一直在一线工作。
Before the Spring Festival in Wuhan, I joined the cargo Lala to support Wuhan rescue team, has been working in the front line.
当地很多医院的食堂员工在外地回不了武汉，生活物资又短缺，而且随着救援人员的加入，医院工作人员的就餐成了一个问题。
Many of the local hospital canteen staff can not go back to Wuhan, the lack of supplies, and with the help of relief workers, hospital staff has become a problem.
我这几天负责协和医院的餐食运送。
I've been delivering meals at Concorde Hospital for the last few days.
1月29日，货拉拉开始与武汉的连锁便利店Today合作，为武汉40多家医院免费运送餐食。
On January 29, the Lala began working with Today, a Wuhan chain of convenience stores, to deliver free meals to more than 40 hospitals in Wuhan.
如有战，召必回，我从那天开始随时待命。
If there's a war, call it back. I'll be on call from that day on.
后来我加入了货拉拉武汉爱心司机支援群，现在志愿司机已经108人了。
Later I joined the cargo Lala Wuhan Loving Driver Support Group, now volunteers have 108 drivers.
我每天早上六点多钟起床，从家里到取餐地黄陂再到协和医院，需在武汉跨越几个区。
I get up more than 6: 00 in the morning, from home to take food place Huangpi hospital, need to cross several districts in Wuhan.
早上要预留两三个小时来应对限行和出餐点排队轮候、拥堵的问题。
Two or three hours should be set aside in the morning to deal with queuing and congestion.
为医院运送完餐食后，我还要去运送别的物资。
After delivering food to the hospital, I had to deliver other supplies.
运送的第一批救援物资是给同济医院的防护服，最远是给孝感的医院送防护服。
The first deliveries of relief supplies were protective clothing for Tongji Hospital, and the furthest was protective clothing for filial hospitals.
平均每天要跑2-3趟，有时跑4-5趟。
Run an average of two to three times a day, and sometimes four to five times.
没地方吃午饭，想吃泡面也没开水，中午只能吃点饼干。
No place to eat lunch, want to eat noodles or boiled water, lunch can only eat a few biscuits.
但是我知道，怎么也不能让一线的战士饿着肚子打仗，我早到一点，医院的人就能早些吃到饭菜。
But I knew there was no way to starve the front-line fighters into battle, and if I had been here earlier, the hospital would have been able to have their meals earlier.
我是个人司机，武汉禁行，我本来是不能私下参与运送物资的。
I am a personal driver, Wuhan prohibited, I could not be involved in the private delivery of goods.
货拉拉负责与政府部门沟通，拿到配送通行证，然后将配送任务派发给我们，我们这些司机就根据订单需要去完成定向的物资配送。
The Lala is responsible for communicating with government departments, getting distribution passes, and then dispatching distribution tasks to us, and we drivers need to complete the targeted distribution according to the order.
图/ 视觉中国我的家人都在武汉，还有一个小孙女。
My family are all in Wuhan, and I have a little granddaughter.
为了做好自我防护，我每天都穿防护服，车上备着酒精和消毒水，车辆每天消毒2到3次。
To protect myself, I wear protective clothing every day, with alcohol and disinfectant in my car, and disinfect vehicles two to three times a day.
数不清每天洗多少次手，只知道手都洗得开裂了。
Countless times a day to wash hands, only to know that the hands have been washed open.
我还在车上放了一个睡袋，我跟家里人说，如果自己被感染，就睡车上，不回家了。
I also put a sleeping bag in the car, and I told my family that if I got infected, I would sleep in the car and not go home.
我觉得一线的医护人员才是真正的战士，不能让他们饿着肚子。
I think the front-line paramedics are the real warriors, not the hungry ones.
所以即便在春节假期，我也一直在一线工作，在现场配送物资。
So even during the Spring Festival, I've been working on the front lines, delivering supplies on site.
即便是封城了，我们也要去做点什么，没有理由退缩。
Even if the city is closed, we have to do something, there is no reason to shrink.
*题图源于视觉中国。
* The picture is from visual China.
线索征集：在疫情之下，各行各业都要陆续面对生产和经营中更大的困难和挑战。
Caller collection: Under the epidemic situation, all walks of life must face more difficulties and challenges in production and management successively.
燃财经希望各企业和创业者们与我们联系，提供关于企业如何应对疫情不利影响的新闻线索，让更多人了解到疫情之中企业的现状。
We hope that businesses and entrepreneurs will contact us to provide news clues on how enterprises can cope with the adverse impact of the epidemic, so that more people can understand the current situation of enterprises in the epidemic.
请在评论区留言或在后台私信我们，内容包括“您目前所在的行业、您的大致应对情况、您的联系方式（微信号或电话）”，我们在经过筛选后会第一时间联系您，也请务必保证信息的真实、客观。
Please leave a message in the comments section or trust us backstage, including "your current industry, your general situation, your contact information (micro-signal or telephone)," we will contact you immediately after screening, please make sure the information is true and objective.
你身边还有哪些“逆行者”？你想对他们说些什么？欢迎在评论区留下你的故事，我们会在点赞前三（超过20个）的评论里挑选一位网友，送出腾讯视频季卡一张。
What are the "Inverters" around you? What do you want to say to them? Welcome to leave your story in the comments section. We will pick a netizen from the top three (more than 20) comments and send out a Tencent video season card.
文章转载请点击公众号菜单“转载合作”。
The article reproduces please click on the public number menu "reprint cooperation."
一手资讯/硬核报告/每日红包/线下活动！就差你了！快加微信rancaijing01回复“读者”一键上车！。
First-hand information / hardcore reports / daily red packets / offline activities! Not for you! Add micro-mail Rancaijing 01 reply "Reader" to get on the bus!
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我是互联网人，我没有做逃兵。
I'm an internet man. I'm not a deserter.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "燃财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我是互联网人，我没有做逃兵";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I'm an Internet worker, and I didn't run at & quot;
var msg_desc = "社会没有因为疫情而停止运转，这背后有他们的身影。
var msg _ desc = & quot; society didn't stop functioning because of the epidemic, and they were behind it.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情之下，我和公司都快熬不住了',。
My company and I have hardly ever been able to withstand the epidemic.
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '节后返京，太太太南了',。
At the turn of the day, Madame AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '7位湖北人自述：我的“流浪”春节',。
Seven Hubei people say: My New Year & amp; apos; s & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '排查、劝返、大喇叭、封路，农村这样防肺炎',。
AT & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '我在武汉战肺炎',。
I was with AT & P at Wuhan.
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '疫情之下，我和公司都快熬不住了',。
My company and I have hardly ever been able to withstand the epidemic.
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '节后返京，太太太南了',。
At the turn of the day, Madame AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '7位湖北人自述：我的“流浪”春节',。
Seven Hubei people say: My New Year & amp; apos; s & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '燃财经2020年招聘启事NO.1',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & Co. & Finance's 2020 job offer & & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
var title ="燃财经";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & finance & quot;
