武汉现场：核酸检测来不及，能用 CT 影像确诊新冠肺炎吗？。
Wuhan scene: Nucleic acid detection too late, can you use CT imaging to confirm the new crown pneumonia?
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
「早发现、早隔离、早诊断、早治疗」，疫情暴发至今，漩涡中心的武汉正处于发病的高峰期，新增病例数不断增加。
"Early detection, early isolation, early diagnosis, early treatment", outbreak so far, Whirlpool center Wuhan is at the peak of the disease, the number of new cases is increasing.
而何时能尽快地找到全部疑似病例、有效切断传染源，愈发成为武汉疫情防控的焦点，考验着决策者。
When to find all the suspected cases as soon as possible, effectively cut off the source of infection, increasingly become the focus of disease prevention and control in Wuhan, testing decision makers.
2 月 3 日，身处疫情一线的武汉大学中南医院影像科副主任张笑春的朋友圈截图受到关注，她认为：在武汉疫区，应该以 CT 影像作为目前 2019nCoV 肺炎筛查的主要依据；同时给予无症状或核酸检测阴性但 CT 影像阳性的人予以隔离，以防造成家庭聚集感染，让疫情进一步蔓延。
On February 3, Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of the imaging department of Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, caught the attention of her friend circle. She suggested that CT images should be used as the main basis for screening 2019 nCoV pneumonia in Wuhan epidemic area.
网传张笑春医生朋友圈截图当日，张笑春医生向丁香园证实了截图内容，并详细解释了缘由。
On the same day, Dr Zhang Xiaochun confirmed the screenshot to the clove garden and explained the reason in detail.
张笑春的主张引发了热议，一方面用 CT 来进行筛查的可行度如何，另一方面是此前被提倡的轻症患者居家隔离措施是否真的有效？丁香园从多位专家处获悉，目前无论是核酸检测还是 CT 检查都不能保证绝对的准确性，此外 CT 进行疑似病例的筛查还需要卫生经济学的考量，以及避免交叉感染的可操作性。
Zhang's argument has sparked heated debate about the feasibility of screening with CT on the one hand, and whether the previously advocated home isolation of light patients is really effective on the other hand? The clove orchard has heard from many experts that neither nucleic acid testing nor CT examination can guarantee absolute accuracy.
试剂盒检测结果或有偏差假阴性可能会延误患者隔离按照最新诊疗指南，利用荧光 RT-PCR 检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性仍然是确诊的金标准，然而从疫情暴发至今，试剂盒短缺矛盾在多个厂家快速获批量产后是否真的充足供应，仍然悬而未决。
Detection of new coronavirus nucleic acid-positive using fluorescence RT-PCR remains the gold standard for diagnosis according to the latest diagnostic guidelines. However, since the outbreak of the disease, whether the shortage of test kits has been quickly and adequately supplied to multiple manufacturers after delivery is still pending.
SARS 疫情时期，由于分子检测手段尚未成熟，经历了早期胸片影像结合流行病学证据来确诊的阶段，曾出现过不少误诊收治病例。
Due to the immature means of molecular detection, there have been a lot of cases of misdiagnosis in SARS epidemic period.
多年后的今天，在新型冠状病毒基因序列对外公布后，很快便有多个厂家作出了病毒核酸检测试剂盒。
Today, many years later, after the release of the new coronavirus gene sequence, a number of manufacturers have made viral nucleic acid test kits.
不过，丁香园获悉，即便是作为确诊金标准的荧光 RT-PCR 试剂盒，在实际应用中，结果也并非是完全准确。
However, the clove orchard was informed that even the fluorescent RT-PCR kit, the gold standard for diagnosis, was not entirely accurate in practice.
事实上，作为医疗器械产品，试剂盒的上市应当需要经过国家药监局的审批流程。
In fact, as a medical device products, the kit should be listed through the State Drug Administration approval process.
稍早前，国家卫健委指定各省级疾控中心从经过筛选的 3、4 家企业采购试剂盒，样品采集后需要经过多道流程审核后才能正式确诊，速度较慢。
Earlier, the National Board of Health designated provincial CDC from selected 3 or 4 enterprises to purchase kits, sample collection after a multi-process audit before a formal diagnosis, slow.
1 月 20 日，钟南山院士宣布确认存在人传人后，大量涌入医院的疑似病例却因为试剂盒短缺而陷入无法确诊、住院的僵局，成为疫情暴发初期的争议焦点之一。
On January 20, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the existence of human-to-human transmission, but the influx of suspected cases into hospitals because of shortages of test kits into undiagnosed, hospital deadlock, has become one of the initial controversy of the outbreak.
1 月 26 日，之江生物、捷诺生物、华大基因和华大智造 4 家企业的试剂盒以破纪录的速度通过国家药监局应急审批通道批准，加速生产到达定点医院。
On January 26, four enterprises, namely Zhijiang Biology, Teno Biology, Huada Gene and Huada Zhi, obtained approval from the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision and Administration for emergency approval at record speed, accelerating production to designated hospitals.
此后，零星有报道显示试剂盒供应短缺问题出现缓解，但对于疫区中心的武汉而言，社交平台中伴随着床位紧张的问题，试剂盒仍有缺口的呼声未决。
Since then, there have been sporadic reports of a reduction in the supply of test kits, but for Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic area, the problem of bed strain in social platforms has been accompanied by unresolved calls for gaps in the kits.
2 月 3 日，张笑春医生通过朋友圈发文称：目前武汉市家庭聚集性发病越来越多，而且大多起病隐匿，一次甚至多次核酸检测显示阴性，无任何临床症状，这些如采取家居留观方式，必然造成疫情进一步蔓延。
On February 3, Dr. Zhang Xiaochun wrote through his circle of friends that the increasing incidence of familial aggregation in Wuhan and the hidden nature of most cases and the negative results of one or more tests of nucleic acid, without any clinical symptoms, will inevitably lead to the further spread of the epidemic.
当日，张笑春医生向丁香园证实了截图内容，她解释称，发文并非是否定核酸检测结果，而是认为其作为检测的最终手段，目前仍受到产量、采样方式等限制，武汉作为疫区无法在现阶段完全依赖核酸检测去筛查病人，达到切断传染源的防控效果。
On the same day, Dr. Zhang Xiaochun confirmed the contents of the screenings to the Lilac Garden. She explained that the message was not a negation of the nucleic acid test results, but rather that as the final means of detection, Wuhan as an epidemic area can not rely solely on nucleic acid screening to screen patients, achieve the control effect of cutting off the source of infection.
「我提的这个建议只适合咱们灾区，不适合普通、散发病例筛查。
"My suggestion is only suitable for our disaster areas, not for general, disseminated case screening.
普通的散病筛查要做到鉴别诊断，而 CT 不能做到鉴别诊断。
In general, the differential diagnosis should be achieved in general screening, but CT cannot.
」张笑春强调。
"Zhang stressed.
她表示，试剂盒由于研究时间紧迫很难尽善尽美，「生产流程复杂、满足不了大量的人群需求，加上核酸检测需要采样，也是非常讲究的，受到方方面面的限制，会造成（假）阴性结果，（漏掉本该被检出的感染者）。
She said it was difficult to perfect the kit because of the tight study schedule. "The complex production process, which does not meet the needs of large numbers of people, and nucleic acid testing, which requires sampling, is very selective and subject to restrictions that can result in (false) negative results," she said.
」张笑春还提到，不同厂家的试剂盒选用的原料不同，也会对结果有影响。
"Zhang also mentioned that different manufacturers of kit selection of raw materials, will also affect the results.
无独有偶，2 月 2 日，李兰娟院士在接受央视采访时表态，称目前武汉的试剂盒供应仍然不足，不能满足病人的检测需求，还做不到「早发现、早隔离、早诊断、早治疗」。
Similarly, in an interview with CCTV on February 2, Li Lanjuan, academician, said the current supply of kits in Wuhan is still insufficient to meet the needs of patients, and do not do "early detection, isolation, early diagnosis, early treatment.
在当日央视新闻 1+1 节目直播中，李兰娟还提到，试剂盒对于武汉发现病人、切断传染源非常重要，希望「正确率高的试剂盒多送一些到武汉来。
In the CCTV news 1 + 1 live broadcast, Li Lanjuan also mentioned that the kit for Wuhan found patients, cut off the source of infection is very important, hope "the correct rate of some of the test kit sent more to Wuhan.
」一位不愿具名的感染病研究权威专家对于假阴性解释称，个别病人一开始发病的病毒载量比较低的时候，的确有可能存在假阴性。
An infectious disease authority who declined to be named explained to false-negative people that it was possible that a false negative existed when individual patients had a low viral load in the first place.
这样的病人张笑春在武汉所见不少，「好多患者 CT 发现有问题，但核酸检测结果是阴性，让他们回家了。
Such a patient Zhang Xiaochun saw in Wuhan, "many patients CT found problems, but the nucleic acid test results are negative, let them go home.
几天过后，患者情况加重，传染了一家子。
A few days later, the patient became worse, infecting the family.
」正在做核酸检测的医生图片来源于网络CT 筛查可操作性强吗？会不会交叉感染？一方面是试剂盒供应不足，采集标本方式影响结果；另一方面一些 CT 诊断阳性的病人由于核酸检测结果为假阴性，漏诊后回到家里，最终造成家庭聚集发病。
Do doctors who are testing for nucleic acids come from the workability of network CT screening? Are there cross-infections? On the one hand, there is insufficient supply of test kits to collect samples to influence the results; on the other hand, some CT-positive patients return home after missing a diagnosis due to false negative nucleic acid test results, resulting in family agglomeration.
基于以上的原因，张笑春教授在上述被广泛转发的朋友圈文章提到，新建的火神山医院容纳量仍然有限，应该即刻开始对只要与疑似病例有过接触者均排查 CT，阳性结果的就近集中隔离。
For all these reasons, Professor Zhang Xiaochun mentioned in the aforementioned widely circulated article that the newly built Mount Fujimori Hospital still has limited capacity and that CT screening of people who have been in contact with suspected cases should be started immediately, with positive results centralized and close to home.
张笑春说，自己是出于医务人员的职业敏感性和良知，提出切合实际、阻断传播途径的措施。
Zhang said he was motivated by the medical staff's professional sensitivity and conscience, put forward practical measures to block the way of transmission.
丁香园从多位医生处获悉，试剂盒有假阴性结果的情况的确存在，但原因除了试剂盒本身不够灵敏之外，咽拭子采样标本核酸阳性率比痰检阳性率要低，但局限性在于痰标本获取更为困难。
Lilac Garden has been informed by doctors that false negative results of test kits do exist, but that apart from the fact that the kit itself is not sensitive enough, the positive rate of nucleic acid in swabs samples is lower than sputum positive, but the limitation is that it is more difficult to obtain sputum samples.
目前，新型冠状病毒疑似病例的诊断则主要依据临床表现、流行病学证据，以及胸部影像学等，但是否一定要用 CT 在诊疗方案中并未提及。
At present, the diagnosis of the new coronavirus is mainly based on clinical manifestation, epidemiological evidence and chest imaging, but whether CT should be used is not mentioned in the diagnosis and treatment plan.
浙江大学附属第二医院放射科主任医师、中国医师协会放射医师分会呼吸专委会主任委员张敏鸣教授认为，目前其所在的医院每天大约有 300 ~ 400 例发热患者，主要是采取胸部平片，即胸部摄片检查，「只有高度疑似的再进行 CT 或核酸检测。
Professor Zhang Minming, the Radiologist Director of Zhejiang University's Second Hospital and Chairman of the Respiratory Panel of the Radiologist Branch of the Chinese Medical Association, said there were about 300 to 400 cases of fever in his hospital each day.
」对于张笑春教授提出的 CT 筛查，张敏鸣从卫生经济学的角度觉得可操作性不强，需要分地区考虑。
For the CT screening proposed by Professor Zhang, Zhang Minming felt that it was not feasible from the point of view of health economics and needed to be considered at the district level.
首先是为了避免交叉感染的大量消毒消耗，「CT 特别容易产生交叉感染，必须要采取完全封闭的单独器具，检查一个病人，就需要进行一次要消毒，不光是机器消毒，工作人员的所有的装备都要消，那是巨大的消耗量。
First of all, in order to avoid large-scale disinfection consumption of cross-infection, "CT is particularly prone to cross-infection. It requires a complete closure of individual instruments, a disinfection is required for a patient to be examined, not just for disinfection of the machine, but for all the staff's equipment, which is a huge consumption.
」同时，CT 阳性也存在误诊可能，张敏鸣指出，「有很多的患者虽然有磨玻璃影，但可能就是流感，再去做核酸检测就是阴性。
At the same time, there is a risk of misdiagnosis in CT-positive patients, Zhang noted. "There are many patients who have ground glass, but it could be influenza.
」但对于疫区而言，「如果说 CT 查一个准一个，那我觉得是可以用的，但是也要看疫情医院的条件，必须是隔离的、专用的CT。
But for an epidemic area, "If a CT scan is correct, I think it works, but it also depends on the conditions of the epidemic hospital, which must be isolated, dedicated CT.
」「我特别担心大家夸大了 CT 的作用，一股脑的都去查 CT，而忽略了 CT检查过程中的感染控制。
"I am particularly concerned that the role of CT has been exaggerated and that CT findings have been ignored.
」张敏鸣说。
"said Zhang.
此外，前述感染病研究专家也表示，如果按照传染病防治的原则，「假如说病人多来不及，我们总结的经验是，可以按照『宁错勿漏』的原则，先进行 CT诊断，如果 CT 也明确有肺炎的话，就要高度怀疑，马上进行隔离治疗。
In addition, infectious disease experts have indicated that, in keeping with the principle of preventing and treating infectious diseases, "If it is too late to say that the patient is too late, we have learned the lesson that CT diagnosis can be made on the basis of the principle of 'no leakage'.
」针对使用影像学检查来代替核酸检测，有着 H1N1、H7N9 多次疫情防控经验的感染病研究专家表示，实际上 CT 影像明确地情况下，结合流行病学史，可以进行初步判断。
Experts in infectious disease research with more than H1N1 and H7N9 experience in the prevention and control of diseases using imaging studies instead of nucleic acid testing said that CT images clearly combine an epidemiological history to make preliminary judgments.
「目前的状况是很多的医院医生，对于疾病的影像表现不是十分了解，就很有可能带来诊断延误，所以他们需要等核酸检测的结果。
"The current situation is that many hospital doctors do not have a good understanding of the imaging aspects of the disease, which may lead to delays in diagnosis, so they need to wait for the results of nucleic acid tests."
」综合以上专家观点，不难看出，CT 筛查严格来说是不可能作为核酸检测的替代品去确诊新型冠状病毒病例。
Combining these expert views, it is not difficult to see that CT screening is not strictly possible as a substitute for nucleic acid testing to identify new coronavirus cases.
但是，如果在核酸检测条件不允许的情况下，武汉又存在大量疑似病例无法确诊，用 CT 诊断作为补充手段进行查漏补缺，从而尽快找到更多疑似病例和密切接触者进行隔离，的确符合感染病防控中「管理感染人群、切断传播途径」的原则。
However, if Wuhan is unable to diagnose a large number of suspected cases when the nucleic acid test conditions do not permit, the CT diagnosis as a supplementary means of finding more suspected cases and isolating close contacts as soon as possible does meet the principle of "managing infected people, cutting off transmission routes" in infection prevention and control.
正如张敏鸣教授所言，如果因为都去做 CT 而忽略防护，造成过程中的交叉感染，则更是必须要注意的地方。
As Prof Zhang Minming said, if we neglect to protect because we all do CT, resulting in cross-infection in the process, we must pay more attention to.
居家隔离还是集中隔离？早前，有医生自述自己在感染病毒后如何自行隔离多日获得好转的文章得到广泛传播，加上武汉医院一床难求，一段时间以来，很多武汉疑似病人都采取了自行去医院拿药、居家隔离的方式治疗。
Some doctors have written widely about how they have isolated themselves for days after contracting the virus, and many Wuhan patients have for some time been treated in hospitals for their own medicine and isolation, according to a report from Wuhan Hospital.
但在张笑春医生的发文中，她认为，家庭隔离、留观室无效，应该立即叫停，采取集中隔离，隔离人群包括所有的是疑似病例、留观者、有密切接触史的人，「应该像非典当年似的，征用酒店、学校，提供给这些人一人一个房间。
But in Dr Zhang's message, she argued that the isolation of families and viewing rooms was ineffective and should be stopped immediately, with concentrated isolation of people, including all those with suspected cases, spectators and close contacts. "Hotels and schools should be requisitioned and provided with a room for each of them, as was the case in SARS."
让他们每个人经过 14 天的隔离期，而不是让大众经过 14 天的隔离期。
Instead of letting the public go through a 14-day isolation period, let each of them go through a 14-day period.
」她告诉丁香园，自己父母都被感染后，她发现居家隔离属于「隔而不离」。
She told Lilac Gardens that when her parents got infected, she found the isolation "inseparable."
具体说：不是说「居家隔离」这种方式无效，而是普遍人群的认知达不到医学隔离的要求。
Specifically: Not that the "home isolation" this way is ineffective, but that the general public's perception does not meet the requirements of medical isolation.
在家中需要做饭、用餐、活动，不可避免的会摘下口罩，有时候往往就忘了这回事，特别是家中有小孩子需要照顾时，就会让这种隔离变得无效，实际上仍在传播疾病。
Cooking, eating, moving around the house, and inevitably taking off the mask can sometimes be forgotten, especially when there are young children in the family who will render the isolation ineffective and actually spread the disease.
「作为医生家庭，我们已经做了很严格的防护，但我的父母还是容易有疏忽。
"As a family of doctors, we have done a great deal of protection, but my parents are still prone to negligence.
虽然戴着口罩，但一会儿觉得呼吸不畅就把口罩放到嘴巴下面了，你想想这哪能管用？」2 月 2 日媒体报道，湖北省按照「四集中」要求，对所有疑似患者集中隔离。
Although wearing a mask, but feel short of breath on the next put a mask under the mouth, you think this can not work? Hubei Province in accordance with the "four episodes" requirements, all suspected patients in the central isolation.
具体措施包括压缩筛查确诊流程、对所有疑似病例进行集中隔离、千方百计提升收治能力以及加强疫情搜索。
Specific measures include compressed screening of diagnostic procedures, centralized isolation of all suspected cases, efforts to improve treatment capacity and intensified search for outbreaks.
图片来源：新华网截图其中，在隔离疑似病例部分，提及了将设置定点医院隔离病房，以及征用酒店、招待所、闲置厂房等，建立备用隔离场所。
Source: Xinhua net screenshot, in the section of isolation suspected cases, mentioned that will set up a designated hospital isolation room, as well as requisitioning hotels, guest houses, idle plants, and other places to set up the isolation.
此举与张晓春医生的建议颇为接近，也有不少评论这表明武汉加强了防治力度，有助于加快切断传染源。
This is very close to the recommendations of Dr. Zhang Xiaochun, but a number of comments show that Wuhan has strengthened the prevention and treatment efforts, help to cut off the source of infection.
不过，中国新闻周刊 3 日的报道也显示，一些疑似病例在接受社区安排进入隔离酒店后，仍然面临着诸多困境。
However, China News Weekly reports on the 3rd also showed that a number of suspected cases after receiving community arrangements to enter the quarantine hotel, still face many difficulties.
该报道提及，一名受访者的奶奶病情严重因没有床位留观家中，后被社区医院告知，可以到附近的集中隔离避免传染。
One interviewee, whose grandmother was seriously ill and had no bed to stay at home, was told by the community hospital that she could go to nearby intensive quarantine to avoid infection, the report said.
然而受访者获悉，隔离酒店虽然有医生检测体温，但是没有治疗和吸氧设备，加上在 14 天隔离期不准家人探视，最终考虑到老人的状况，受访者拒绝前往。
However, the interviewee was informed that, although the isolation hotel had a doctor's temperature tested, there was no treatment and oxygen-absorbing equipment, and no family visits were allowed during the 14-day isolation period.
另外一对高度疑似的夫妇则通过微博求助，称他们在被社区安排到定点酒店进行隔离后，里面并无医护人员监护，连体温计都没有，存在许多隐患。
Another highly suspicious couple sought help on Weibo, saying they were quarantined by the community at a designated hotel, where they had no medical staff, no thermometers, and many pitfalls.
此外，也有隔离酒店因为避免中央空调交叉感染而关闭，导致室温过低不适的情况也成为集中隔离点逐渐暴露的问题之一。
In addition, isolated hotels have been closed because of the avoidance of cross-infection with central air conditioning, leading to low room temperature discomfort, which has also become one of the problems gradually exposed at centralized isolation points.
也有医生提倡居家隔离。
Some doctors also promote home isolation.
张敏鸣教授认为，目前大多数隐性感染者，在免疫力正常的情况下，可能扛一扛就过去了。
Professor Zhang Minming thinks, at present most recessive infection, under the circumstance of immunity is normal, may carry to pass.
「特别是轻症病人，在杭州也许就诊时查出来就送到定点医院去了，但是目前武汉医疗资源紧张的情况下，少去医院避免交叉感染，好好在家休息、睡觉，提高免疫力，是一个最佳的治疗方法。
"In particular, patients with mild illnesses may be checked out at Hangzhou and sent to designated hospitals. However, given the current shortage of medical resources in Wuhan, the best treatment is to avoid cross-infection, take good rest at home, sleep well and improve immunity.
」张敏鸣教授认为，目前武汉的医疗资源在超负担、大体量的运行，几乎就要消耗掉全部医护人员，应该呼吁的就是让疑似病人如果症状不明显的话就不要去医院，把重要的医护人员的精力留给重症病人。
Professor Zhang Minming said Wuhan, where medical resources are running at such a high burden that it will consume almost all medical staff, should call on suspected patients not to go to the hospital if the symptoms are not obvious and to devote the energies of important medical personnel to the seriously ill.
针对居家隔离的不足，张敏鸣教授补充道，并不是所有家庭都有条件把轻症病人隔离在一个房间，那么可以采取征用酒店这样的方式进行隔离。
Not all families have the means to keep light patients in one room, he added, adding that they can be isolated by commandeering a hotel.
前述感染病研究专家则表示，「理论上主张只要有医院去做检测，有症状就要隔离治疗，应该采取更加重视的态度。
Infection experts said: "Theoretically, as long as there is a hospital to do the test, symptoms need to be isolated treatment, should take a more serious attitude.
居家隔离的原则至少是一人一间屋才有效，而不是几个人居住在一起。
The principle of home segregation applies to at least one person per room, rather than a few people living together.
」（本文首发于丁香园）撰文：刘楚 史晨瑾排版：CC封面图来源：网络—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
http: / / larry.beiin.com Our new book, Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code recognition for the occasional cure to disease, aging, and death - an occasional cure for illness, old age, and death; and often helps and comforts.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉现场：核酸检测来不及，能用 CT 影像确诊新冠肺炎吗？。
Wuhan scene: Nucleic acid detection too late, can you use CT imaging to confirm the new crown pneumonia?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉现场：核酸检测来不及，能用 CT 影像确诊新冠肺炎吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan scene: Was it too late to test for nucleic acid, and was it possible to diagnose New Crown Pneumonia with CT images?;
var msg_desc = "目前试剂盒供应不足，还做不到「早发现、早诊断、早隔离、早治疗」。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at present there is insufficient supply of test kits to enable "early detection, diagnosis, early isolation, and treatment."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
