新冠疫情的启示：今后医院所有科室床位都可能减少，唯独ICU会增加。
The New Crown Epidemic Revelation: All hospital beds may be reduced in the future, with the exception of ICU.
彭丹妮。
Penny.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
中国人均占有的ICU病床数，与西方发达国家相比显然不够。
The per capita share of ICU beds in China is clearly insufficient compared with that in the developed Western countries.
在ICU人员配备不足的情况下超负荷运转，就不可避免地将病人置于潜在的危险中新冠肺炎感染后期，有相当比例的病人出现呼吸衰竭、肾功能衰竭、循环衰竭。
Overloading the ICU with inadequate staffing inevitably places the patient in a potentially dangerous post-CIP phase, with a significant proportion of patients suffering from respiratory failure, renal failure, and circulatory failure.
重症管理的专业化科学监测、生命支持与救治，将是有效减少死亡率的重要措施。
Specialized scientific surveillance, life support and treatment of severe disease management will be an important measure to effectively reduce mortality.
因此，新冠肺炎阻击战迫切需要大批重症医学专业医护人员奔赴一线。
Therefore, there is an urgent need for a large number of severe medical professionals to the frontline.
1月29日，中华医学会重症医学分会、中国医师协会重症医学医师分会、中国病理生理学会危重病医学专业委员会，联合发布《齐心协力，拯救生命，打赢新冠肺炎阻击战——致全国重症医学专业同道倡议书》表示，“重症医学的专业使命，决定了我们必将成为此次阻击新型冠状病毒肺炎流行战役中的重症病人生命救治的主力军”。
"The professional mission of severe medicine determines that we will be the main force in the fight against the new coronavirus pneumonitis epidemic," said the Chinese Medical Association's Critical Medicine Division, the Chinese Medical Association's Critical Medicine Division and the Chinese Society of Pathophysiology's Critical Illness Medical Council.
2019年6月3日出版的第901期《中国新闻周刊》，专门介绍了重症医学，这一重要的医学分支在中国的发展状况。
The 901 issue of China News Weekly, published on 3 June 2019, is devoted to the development of severe medicine, an important branch of medicine in China.
云南昭通市镇雄县人民医院的ICU病房。
ICU Ward of Zhenxiong County People's Hospital, Zhaotong City, Yunnan.
图/IC重症监护病房的扩张与困境本刊记者/彭丹妮发于2019.6.3总第901期《中国新闻周刊》推开河南省商丘市第一人民医院ICU病房紧闭着的大门，可以看到病床上的病人大多闭着眼，他们有的处于昏迷状态，有的被注射了镇静剂，偶尔有人醒着，脸上也看不出表情。
Photo / IC Expansion and Dilemma of Intensive Care Ward Our correspondent / Penny's issue No. 901, 2019.6.3, pushed open the closed door of the ICU ward of the First People's Hospital in Shanqiu, Henan Province. Most of the patients on the beds were seen with their eyes closed.
在这里，社会地位、身份与性别失去了意义——十几位病人不穿衣服，也几乎不进食，病号服从中间被剪开盖在身上，各种管道布满全身，鼻饲管为身体补充着营养液。
Here, status, identity, and gender lose their meaning - a dozen patients are naked and barely fed, sick uniforms are cut from the middle and covered with pipes that fill the body with nutrients.
昼夜不停运转的设备和从不熄灭的灯，让这个封闭的空间里没有了白天和黑夜的概念。
Round-the-clock equipment and lights that never go out make this enclosed space devoid of the concept of day and night.
为防止因谵妄或烦躁而挣脱各种诊疗管，很多病人的手脚都被带子束缚在床沿上。
To prevent delirium or irritability from breaking free from the various tubes, many patients have their hands and feet tied to the edge of the bed.
这家医院的ICU在10年前刚成立时有13张病床，如今已增至20张。
The hospital's ICU, which had 13 beds when it was founded 10 years ago, has grown to 20.
为应对不断增长的病患需求，设有28个床位的第二病区即将投入使用。
In response to the growing demand for patients, the 28-bed Second Disease Area is about to become operational.
此外，可移动的病床随时准备着，以便在床位不够时加床。
In addition, mobile beds are readily available to accommodate additional beds when there is a shortage of beds.
在高峰时期，预计两个病区共可收治80位病人。
During the peak period, a total of 80 patients are expected to be treated in both areas.
一位病人呻吟着，断断续续地说“我要回家”，却无人理会。
A patient groaned and said, intermittently, "I want to go home," but no one paid any attention.
按原卫生部《指南》（见下文）的要求，一张ICU病床应配备3名护士；但在这里，一名护士就要照顾三张病床。
As required by the former Ministry of Health Guidelines (see below), one ICU bed should be staffed by three nurses; however, there are three beds for one nurse.
各种检查；药物补充；定时记录监护仪上的心率、血压；清理病人的大小便，以及在固定的时间给病人翻身以免背部生褥疮……这些活儿已经让护士们在12小时一班的工作时间内不堪重负，她们无暇顾及被照料者的精神状况甚至尊严。
Examinations; drug supplementation; regular recording of heart rate, blood pressure on the monitor; cleaning of the patient's urine and urine, and turning the patient over at a fixed time to avoid bedsores on the back... these tasks have overburdened nurses during 12-hour shifts, leaving them without regard for the mental condition or even dignity of the person being cared for.
“一到旺季，这儿就像菜市场一样。
"It's like a vegetable market when it's busy.
”一名护士说。
"said a nurse.
但这些，都阻挡不了ICU快速扩张的脚步。
But none of this will stop the rapid expansion of the ICU.
快速扩张ICU并非一直都这么火爆。
Rapid expansion of the ICU has not always been so popular.
2009年，当刘小军出任郑州大学附属第二医院重症监护科主任时，发现该院ICU创立三年来，虽然只有8张床位，但依然“吃不饱”。
In 2009, when Liu Xiaojun became director of intensive care at Zhengzhou University's Second Hospital, he found that three years after its founding, the ICU had only eight beds, but it was still "hungry."
相比之下，在与它相距不足5公里的“全球最大医院”——郑州大学附属第一医院的ICU里，上百张床位却长期人满为患。
By contrast, hundreds of beds are chronically overcrowded in the ICU of Zhengzhou University's First Hospital, the world's largest hospital less than five kilometers away.
若非迫于国家对三级医院必须有ICU病房的硬性要求，郑大二附院的ICU也许早已关门大吉了。
Had it not been for the state's mandatory requirement that level III hospitals have ICU wards, the ICU attached to Jung might have been shut down.
因为几乎收不到什么病人，科室没有奖金，医护人员缺少成长空间，人心涣散。
With few patients, no bonuses, little room for growth and poor morale on the part of health-care workers.
同事们对刘小军说，“你来错了地方。
Colleagues said to Liu Xiaojun, "You are in the wrong place.
”ICU，即重症监护病房，是医院集中监护和救治重症患者的专业病房。
ICU, the intensive care unit, is the hospital's specialized ward for intensive care and treatment of patients with severe illnesses.
它的雏形可追溯到1950年代初期。
Its origins date back to the early 1950s.
当时，小儿麻痹症在丹麦哥本哈根造成许多人死于呼吸衰竭。
At the time, polio caused many deaths from respiratory failure in Copenhagen, Denmark.
负责治疗的医务人员发现，将病人集中管理，切开气管并应用人工呼吸支持治疗后，死亡率从原来的87％下降到 40％。
Medical staff in charge of the treatment found that the mortality rate dropped from 87 per cent to 40 per cent after centralizing the patient, cutting open the trachea and applying artificial respiration support.
在丹麦诞生了世界上第一个ICU病房的30多年后，1982年，中国第一张为外科手术而设的ICU病床在北京协和医院建成。
More than 30 years after Denmark's birth to the world's first ICU ward, China's first ICU bed for surgery was built in Beijing's Concorde Hospital in 1982.
两年后，协和成立了中国第一个重症医学科室，有7张病床，由被称为“中国重症医学之父”的陈德昌医生坐镇。
Two years later, Concorde founded China's first intensive care unit, with seven beds, with Dr. Chen Dechang, known as the "Father of China's Severe Medicine."
1989年，原卫生部正式要求所有三级综合医院成立ICU，全国重症医学科的建设应声而起。
In 1989, the former Ministry of Health formally requested all tertiary level general hospitals to set up ICU, the national construction of severe medicine responded to the call.
2009年，原卫生部正式宣布在《医疗机构诊疗科目名录》中增加“重症医学科”诊疗科目，并发布了《重症医学科建设与管理指南（试行）》（以下简称《指南》）。
In 2009, the former Ministry of Health officially announced the addition of "Severe Medicine" to the List of Medical Diagnostic Courses, and issued the Guide to Construction and Management of Severe Medicine (hereinafter referred to as "the Guide").
《指南》要求，全国二级以上综合医院需设立至少一个ICU，且三级综合医院重症医学科床位数应占医院病床总数的2％~8％。
The Guide requires that at least one ICU be established in all level II and above general hospitals, and that the number of beds in the critical medical disciplines in level III general hospitals should be between 2 and 8 per cent of the total number of hospital beds.
上任之初，刘小军就决心改变郑大二附院ICU“半死不活”的状态。
At the beginning of his tenure, Liu Xiaojun was determined to change the state of the ICU.
他放下省级三甲医院科主任的身段，一到周末就去省内各县市见同行。
He laid down the director of the provincial Sanjia hospital, one weekend to see the province's county counterparts.
在他的“推销”下，当基层医院ICU大夫需要请上级医院医生会诊的时候，往往首先想到的就是他们认识的那位省里的专家刘小军。
Under his "marketing", when the basic hospital ICU doctors need to consult a higher hospital doctor, often the first thought is that they know the provincial expert Liu Xiaojun.
如今，郑大二附院ICU已经拥有7辆救护车，一个月从基层转运来的病人有近200个，成为全国单病区外接病人最多的ICU科。
Today, the ICU attached to Zheng University has seven ambulances, a month from the grass-roots transfer of nearly 200 patients, the largest single-patient area outside the ICU family.
有了病人，该院ICU病区也开始了每两年一次的扩张步伐，从8张病床增至13张、20张，有时还要增加临时床位。
With patients, the ICU ward of the hospital has also begun to expand every two years, from 8 to 13 beds, 20 beds and, in some cases, additional temporary beds.
2014年，ICU整体搬到新病区，开设了40个床位。
In 2014, the ICU moved as a whole to the new ward, opening 40 beds.
郑大二附院ICU扩张的背后，是全国重症医学科的大发展。
Zheng sophomore attached to the ICU expansion, is the major development of the national disciplines of severe medicine.
自中国公立医院在2003年后开始一轮扩张潮以来，ICU成为医院评级的重要指标，迎来其高速发展期。
ICU has become an important index of hospital rating since the Chinese public hospital began a wave of expansion after 2003, ushering in its rapid development.
在北京协和医院ICU主任、中国医师协会重症医学分会会长杜斌看来，“近年来，国内大多数地方的ICU发展都很快，绝对超过了医院发展的平均速度。
According to Du Bin, director of ICU at Beijing Concorde Hospital and president of the Association of Chinese Physicians' Association's Severe Medicine Branch, "in recent years, ICU growth in most parts of the country has been rapid and has definitely exceeded the average rate of hospital development.
”浙江新安国际医院重症医学科主任医师殳儆告诉《中国新闻周刊》，她原来所在的嘉兴市第一医院，ICU病房从最初的12张床一路增至接近30张床，仍显不足，后来又增设了呼吸科ICU。
Duo Duo, director of severe medicine at Xin'an International Hospital in Zhejiang Province, told China News Weekly that her former hospital in Jiaxing City had grown from 12 beds to nearly 30 beds, which was still insufficient.
她说，“每家市级医院甚至顶尖医院都遵循了这样的发展路径：先是增加普通ICU病房的床位数，再设立专科ICU。
"Every city hospital, even the best, follows this path: increasing the number of beds in ordinary ICU wards and creating specialized ICUs," she said.
很多医院在整体搬迁后，又在新址上设立规模更大的ICU。
Many hospitals have been relocated and larger ICUs have been set up on new sites.
”“ICU今后应该是综合医院或者大型医院里最大的科室。
"The ICU should henceforth be the largest department in a general hospital or a large hospital.
”中日友好医院呼吸与危重症医学科主任詹庆元说，“将来彻底实行分级诊疗后，大医院靠什么活？一个是疑难杂症，一个是重症，然后还有大手术。
Zhan Qingyuan, director of respiratory and critical medicine at the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, said: "What will the major hospitals do after a thorough grading exercise in the future?
”刘小军也指出，“实行县域综合医改后，国家要求大病不出县。
Liu also pointed out that "after the implementation of comprehensive county medical reform, the state requires that no county be seriously ill.
现在很多地方的农村患者外转率只有5％，那么，省级医院或大型医院的普通病房，哪来的病人？在这个大背景下，今后所有科室的床位都可能减少，唯独ICU的床位会增加。
With only 5% of rural patients now in many places, where are patients coming from the general wards of provincial hospitals or large hospitals? Against this background, all sections are likely to have fewer beds in the future, with the exception of ICU beds.
”虽然ICU在快速扩张，但殳儆很少见到哪家医院的ICU在床位和人手方面不紧张，病患的需求仍难以满足。
Although ICU is expanding rapidly, but Duo on the watch rarely sees which hospital has no shortage of beds and staff, and the needs of patients are still difficult to meet.
作为首都医科大学附属复兴医院院长，席修明是中国危重症医学领域的开拓者之一。
As the director of Renaissance Hospital attached to Capital Medical University, Xiuming is one of the pioneers in critical medicine field in China.
他认为，从目前情况来看，中国人均占有的ICU病床数，与西方发达国家相比显然是不够的，国内的ICU还远未达到供需平衡点。
He argues that, as things stand, China's per capita share of ICU beds is clearly insufficient compared to that of the developed Western countries, and that the domestic ICU is far from reaching the balance between supply and demand.
世界重症与危重病医学会联盟提供的数据显示，德国、加拿大每10万人拥有的ICU床位数分别高达24.6和13.5张。
The number of ICU beds per 100,000 people in Germany and Canada is as high as 24.6 and 13.5, respectively, according to the World Federation of Societies for Serious and Critical Diseases.
2016年，中华医学会重症医学分会部分成员在《中华重症医学》杂志上发表的全国ICU普查结果显示：以2014年人口为参照，中国每10万人拥有的ICU床位数平均为3.19张。
According to the results of the national ICU survey published in the Chinese Journal of Severe Medicine by some members of the Chinese Medical Association in 2016, the average number of ICU beds per 100,000 people in China is 3.19, based on the 2014 population.
不过，杜斌解释说，该调查未将专科ICU纳入统计范围，而综合ICU与专科ICU的床位数大致持平，这意味着这一数字可能翻一倍，但即便如此，与德国、加拿大的数据依然相差甚远。
However, Mr. Du explained that the survey did not include specialist ICUs, which are roughly equal to the number of beds in specialist ICUs, which means that the number may double, but even so, the figures for Germany and Canada still fall far short.
中国人民大学人口与发展研究中心、北京社会建设研究院教授翟振武及其团队完成的《2015~2100年中国人口与老龄化变动趋势》显示，中国60岁及以上老年人口占总人口的比重将在2024年左右突破20％，65岁以上老人占比将在2027年左右突破15％。
According to the Changing Trend of Population and Aging in China 2015-2100, conducted by Zhai Zhenwu, a professor at the Center for Population and Development Studies at Renmin University of China and professor Zhai Zhenwu of the Beijing Institute of Social Construction, showed that the proportion of the population aged 60 and over in China will surpass 20% by 2024.
到本世纪上半叶，中国老龄人口将进入井喷期。
By the first half of this century, China's elderly population will enter a blowout phase.
詹庆元说，“在ICU里，70岁算年轻人，80岁算中年人，90岁算老人。
"In ICU, 70 is a young man, 80 is a middle-aged man and 90 is an old man," he said.
”对于ICU尤其是内科ICU来说，老龄化带来的挑战是显而易见的。
For the ICU, and the ICU in particular, the challenges posed by aging are clear.
“老年人更容易发展为重症，这些病人通常很难治，这一人群又很庞大，所以今后ICU的资源肯定是不够的。
"Older people are more likely to develop serious illnesses, these patients are often difficult to treat, and this population is huge, so the resources of the ICU will certainly be insufficient in the future.
”按照原卫生部《指南》的规定，ICU床位使用率以75％为宜，但《中国新闻周刊》走访多家医院的ICU发现，从省级医院到地市级医院再到县级医院，从中原省份的河南到沿海的浙江，在ICU的旺季，加床是普遍现象。
According to the former Ministry of Health guidelines, 75 percent of ICU beds are available, but ICU visits hospitals across the country from provincial hospitals to prefectural-level hospitals to county-level hospitals, from Henan in central China's central province to Zhejiang on the coast, where bed-building is common in the busy ICU season.
对此，ICU的医生们理由充分：病人那么危重，如果拒收将会危及他们的生命，谁来负责？另一个未被提及的原因是，由于对公立医院的财政投入较少，在经济压力下，即便已经超出核定床位，医院依然不愿意流失病人，尤其是需要入住ICU的花费高的危重病人。
ICU doctors have a good reason for this: patients are so critical that refusing to accept them would endanger their lives, and who is responsible? Another reason is that, given the low financial commitment to public hospitals, hospitals are reluctant to lose patients, especially the high-cost, critically ill patients who need to be admitted to ICU, even after the authorized beds are exceeded.
ICU 病房内，护士为患者做心肺复苏抢救。
In the ICU ward, nurses perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation for patients.
图/IC“压床”困境在中日友好医院的内科重症ICU，一位91岁的老人已经以同样的姿势、同样的治疗方式在病床上生活了四年多。
Photo / IC The Bed Compression Dilemma A 91-year-old man has been living in a hospital bed for more than four years in the same position and with the same treatment.
ICU里那些让病人难以忍受的地方，如24小时不停的监护仪报警声、不分白天夜晚从不熄灭的灯光、因各种诊疗管缠身因而极其有限的活动空间等等，对他而言没有造成困扰，由于罹患中枢神经系统疾病，他全身几乎失去知觉。
The unbearable parts of the ICU, such as the 24-hour monitor alarm, lights that never go out during the day or at night, extremely limited room for manoeuvre because of various clinical tubes, etc., do not bother him and he is almost unconscious due to central nervous system diseases.
这种情况并非个案。
This is not an isolated case.
当ICU动辄数十万的医疗费让许多经济能力有限的家庭望而却步的同时，一些从ICU获益不大但有足够经济条件支撑的病人，却长期占用稀缺资源。
While the hundreds of thousands of health-care costs incurred by the ICU have deterred many families with limited means, patients who benefit little from the ICU but have sufficient financial resources have been spending scarce resources for a long time.
他们往往少则数月、多则数年地依赖呼吸机等生命支持技术，有些病人身体其他机能尚好，但中枢神经系统出现不可逆的损伤，如脑出血、脑梗塞引起的偏瘫甚至长期昏迷。
They tend to rely on life-support techniques, such as respirators, for months and years at a time, and some patients have other well-functioning bodies but irreversible damage to the central nervous system, such as cerebral hemorrhage, hemiplegia due to cerebral infarction and even prolonged coma.
这些病人往往成为ICU“压床”的主要人群。
These patients tend to be the main crowd in the ICU's "bed presses."
“几乎所有的ICU都收治过这类病人。
"Almost all ICUs have treated such patients.
”杜斌说。
"said Du Bin.
什么样的人最适宜入住ICU？原卫生部《指南》指出，重症监护室收治的病人包括以下四类：急性、可逆、已经危及生命的器官或者系统功能衰竭，经过严密监护和加强治疗短期内可能得到恢复的患者；存在各种高危因素，具有潜在生命危险，经过严密的监护和有效治疗可能减少死亡风险的患者；在慢性器官或者系统功能不全的基础上，出现急性加重且危及生命，经过严密监护和治疗可能恢复到原来或接近原来状态的患者及其他适合在ICU进行监护和治疗的患者。
The former Department of Health's Guide notes that ICU admissions include four categories of patients: acute, reversible, life-threatening organ or system failure, patients who may recover in the short term after intensive care and intensive care, acute and life-threatening risk reduction based on chronic organ or system dysfunction, intensive care and treatment may return to the original or near original state and other patients suitable for ICU care and treatment.
该《指南》同时指出，慢性消耗性疾病及肿瘤的终末状态、不可逆性疾病和不能从加强监测治疗中获得益处的患者，一般不是重症医学科的收治范围。
At the same time, the Guide notes that chronic expendables and end-of-life tumours, irreversible diseases and patients who do not benefit from enhanced surveillance treatment are not generally admitted to intensive medical disciplines.
席修明撰文指出，决定患者是否转入 ICU 的关键，在于对其疾病是否有益。
The key to deciding whether a patient transfers to the ICU, writes Mr Sew-ming, is whether it is good for his illness.
那些情况良好且没有必要监护的患者，或没有希望恢复健康并提高生活质量的患者，均不需收入ICU。
Patients who are in good health and do not need care, or who have no hope of recovery and improved quality of life, do not need to be included in the ICU.
多位ICU医生认为，ICU救治效果最显著的，通常是严重急性的可逆病例，比如，车祸等意外突发事故造成的多发性创伤性疾病，经大手术后转入ICU进行加强监护和治疗，病人在病情稳定之后完全可能恢复。
According to many ICU doctors, the most significant effect of ICU treatment is usually serious acute reversible cases, such as accidents and accidents resulting in multiple traumatic diseases, after major surgery referred to ICU for intensive care and treatment, the patient is likely to recover after stabilization.
然而如何定义“获益”，同时也是一个伦理问题。
But how to define "benefit" is also an ethical question.
当家属态度坚决要求不遗余力地进行维持的时候，医学指南拗不过社会风俗。
When family attitudes insist that no effort should be spared to maintain it, medical guidelines fail to keep up with social mores.
席修明认为，某种意义上来说，这类病人在ICU里也是获益的——因为他们一出ICU就面临死亡，但问题是，如何看待这种无质量的活着？这类病人是否非得长期滞留在ICU里得到加强照护？詹庆元认为，ICU不宜收治这类病人。
In a sense, such patients also benefit from the ICU - they face death when they come out of the ICU - but the question is, how do they view this lack of quality living and whether such patients need to stay in the ICU for extended periods of time to receive intensive care?
当一些高龄病人本身有多种并发症，用ICU维持其生命却带不来任何生活质量的改善时，一种有尊严的死亡可能是必须要考虑的。
A dignified death may have to be considered when some elderly patients themselves have multiple complications and use the ICU to sustain their lives without any improvement in their quality of life.
北京医科大学附属朝阳医院李洁等人于2012年年底对北京市22家三级医院长期滞留ICU患者进行过摸底调查，结果发现，26％的患者住ICU时间超过21天，最长的病例达到5年以上。
Li Jie, an affiliated Chaoyang Hospital of Beijing Medical University, and others conducted a mapping survey of 22 level III hospitals in Beijing in late 2012 and found that 26 per cent of patients spent more than 21 days in the ICU, with the longest cases reaching more than five years.
这些患者年龄区间在59岁至91岁。
These patients were aged between 59 and 91.
缺乏有专业人员照护的机构是他们无法转出的最常见原因。
The lack of institutions with professional care is the most common reason why they are unable to move out.
昼夜交替间，ICU病房内生命的奇迹也许时刻都在上演。
Around the clock, miracles of life in the ICU ward may occur all the time.
图/ 视觉中国席修明所在的复兴医院ICU病房有24张床位，有一半以上都属于慢性危重症，其中有6位患者已经住院一年以上。
More than half of the 24-bed ICU ward at Siu Ming's Renaissance Hospital are in chronic and critical condition, six of whom have been hospitalized for more than a year.
慢性危重症一般是指在ICU停留7天以上，主要依赖呼吸机等生命支持技术的危重患者。
Chronic critical disease is usually referred to in the ICU stay more than 7 days, mainly relying on life support technology such as ventilator critical patients.
长期滞留ICU，首先意味着医疗资源的大量消耗，一张病床一年耗费的资源大概达到几十万，而当ICU床位紧张时，这类病人造成的资源不合理使用矛盾就更为明显。
Prolonged stay in the ICU means, first, a massive drain on medical resources, with one bed costing hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, and even more so when ICU beds are stretched.
他们的病情处在一个尴尬的中间地带——虽然不需要ICU里复杂的高强度治疗，但“家徒四壁”的普通病房中又没有呼吸机、营养支持等高科技设备来维持他们的生命，普通病房的医护人员在数量和技能上也远不足以承担重症病人的护理工作。
Their condition is in an awkward middle ground - they do not need the complex intensive care provided by the ICU, but the ordinary wards lack the breathing apparatus, nutritional support, and other high-tech equipment to sustain them, and the number and skills of staff in the general wards are far from adequate for the care of the seriously ill.
专家指出，这反映出中国医疗体系的一个结构性缺陷——对急慢性疾病没有做出区分。
Experts point out that this reflects a structural flaw in China's health-care system, which makes no distinction between acute and chronic diseases.
在2019年的两会上，国家卫健委主任马晓伟指出：中国的医疗服务以急性病为主导，恢复期、康复期的医疗服务发展缓慢，甚至可以说是短板。
At the 2019 session, Ma Xiaowei, director of the National Fitness and Physical Fitness Commission, pointed out that China's medical services are dominated by acute diseases, and that recovery and rehabilitation services are slow to develop or even short-lived.
因此，很多慢性病患者，如肿瘤化疗病人、脑卒中（俗称“脑中风”）病人，都依赖城市的三甲医院。
As a result, many chronically ill patients, such as cancer chemotherapy patients, stroke patients (commonly known as "stroke"), rely on the city's triple-A hospital.
他表示，随着中国人口老龄化的加快，慢性病医疗服务的需求无疑将成倍增加，急慢病分开迫在眉睫。
With China's aging population accelerating, the demand for chronic medical services will no doubt multiply, he said.
对于ICU来说，将慢性重症和急性重症区分开来，让急性重症患者使用ICU，才能更好地发挥ICU对于危重患者的救治价值。
For the ICU, distinguishing between chronic and acute severe cases, and using ICU for acute severe cases, can give full play to the value of ICU in treating critically ill patients.
席修明解释说，慢性重症患者的生命支持治疗以康复锻炼、营养、护理为主，而急性危重者的治疗包括休克抢救、各类手术、密集的仪器监护。
He explained that life-support treatment for chronic and severe patients was based on rehabilitation, nutrition and nursing, while treatment for acute critical patients included shock rescue, various types of surgery and intensive instrument monitoring.
在欧美国家，长期加强监护医院（LTACH）或护理中心（Nursing Home）是慢性重症病人的主要收容处。
In Europe and the United States, long-term intensive care (LTACH) or care centres (Nursing Home) are the main shelters for chronically ill patients.
这样的分割一方面杜绝了因长期滞留ICU而占用急性重症患者的医疗资源；另一方面这类医疗机构医生人数很少，多以护士为主，所以费用较低，有利于降低医疗保险负担。
Such segmentation, on the one hand, eliminates the use of medical resources for acute and severe cases due to prolonged ICU stay; on the other hand, the low number of doctors, mostly nurses, in such medical institutions makes them less costly and helps to reduce the burden of health insurance.
国内也有一些医院试图建立过渡病房以期缓解压床患者的转出难问题。
There are also hospitals in the country that are trying to set up transit wards to ease the problem of bed-crushing patients.
2013年，北大国际医院携手宣武医院神经外科专家凌锋成立了康复中心，席修明参与过其中ICU的建设。
In 2013, Peking University International Hospital joined hands with Xuan Wu Hospital neurosurgery expert Ling Feng set up a rehabilitation center, where Xiuming participated in the construction of ICU.
他说，当时的想法是把二十多张ICU病床发展为类似于欧洲的“脱机中心”，将医院里长期依赖机械通气的病人转过来，帮助他们进行康复并脱离呼吸机，最后却因为没有病人而不了了之。
The idea, he said, was to turn more than two dozen ICU beds into "off-line centres" similar to those in Europe, bringing in patients who had long relied on mechanical ventilation to help them recover and leave the ventilator, but ended up with no patients.
对此，席修明指出，医疗报销政策尚未配套、什么样的慢性病纳入收治的标准不明确、社会接受程度低，是中国LTACH病房发展的主要阻碍因素。
In this regard, Xi pointed out that the medical reimbursement policy has not yet matched, what kind of chronic diseases into the admission criteria are unclear, low social acceptance is the main obstacle to the development of LTACH in China.
为了解决长期无法撤离呼吸机的压床病人对ICU资源的长期占用，詹庆元所在的中日友好医院已经与一家社区医院开展合作，一个容量为22张床位的高依赖病房（HDU， High Dependency Unit）有望在未来一个月内开始投入使用，医保报销的障碍也将消除。
To address the long-term occupation of ICU resources by bed-press patients who have been unable to evacuate their ventilators for a long time, Zhan's Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital has teamed up with a community hospital, and a 22-bed HDU, High Dependency Unit, is expected to open in the coming month, removing obstacles to Medicare reimbursement.
HDU的叫法来自英国，是介于ICU与普通病房之间的缓冲地带，长期呼吸机依赖者、需定期翻身吸痰、选择积极维持生命的晚期肿瘤患者等是HDU的主要收治对象。
Named after Britain, the HDU is a buffer zone between the ICU and the general ward. Long-term ventilator-dependent patients, patients with advanced tumours who need to turn over regularly and choose active life-sustaining tumours are the main recipients of HDU treatment.
由于HDU所需设备和人力比ICU更轻，因而不会占用ICU为危重患者准备的宝贵医疗资源，不仅如此，一些HDU的实践已经表明，病人在这里可以得到更好的康复训练，并减少并发症。
Not only do HDUs require less equipment and manpower than ICUs, and thus do not divert valuable ICU medical resources from critically ill patients, some HDU practices have shown that patients can receive better rehabilitation training and reduce complications.
人才参差实际上，ICU也分淡旺季。
In fact, the ICU is in low season.
在流感高发的冬季常常一床难求，到了天气回暖的春夏季节，则相对清闲。
In the winter flu season is often difficult to find a bed, when the weather is warmer in the spring and summer, relatively idle.
在淡季，刘小军的ICU科室曾两周都没有一个病人。
In the low season, Liu's ICU department had not had a single patient in two weeks.
但在高峰期，他们同时收治过70多位病人。
But at the peak, they treated more than 70 patients at once.
为应对这么多病人，只好让所有休息的医护人员都来加班，医院还从别的科室调来30多名护士。
To cope with such a large number of patients, all the rest of the medical staff had to work overtime, the hospital also transferred more than 30 nurses from other departments.
有的人一个班下来，双脚都肿了起来。
Some people come down from the class and their feet swell up.
依据原卫生部《指南》，床位数与ICU医师人数之比应为1:0.8以上，床位数与护士人数之比应为1:3以上。
According to the former Ministry of Health Guidelines, the ratio of beds to ICU physicians should be more than 1: 0.8 and the ratio of beds to nurses should be more than 1: 3.
但杜斌等人在2010年指出，大陆地区每张病床的护士配比平均在1.37~2.02之间。
But Du Bin et al noted in 2010 that the average ratio of nurses per bed in mainland China was between 1.37 and 2.02.
多位专家坦言，以当前极低的护理收费与ICU庞大的人力成本支出，《指南》所指定的标准不可企及，人员配置稍好的ICU顶多也只能达到1:2.5。
Experts concede that, with the current extremely low fees for care and the huge labor costs of the ICU, the criteria set out in the Guide are out of reach, and a slightly better-staffed ICU can only achieve a maximum of 1: 2.5.
比如，在中日友好医院，这一比例达到了1:2.2。
In China-Japan Friendly Hospitals, for example, the ratio is 1: 2.2.
至于1张床配备0.8个医生的要求更是无从谈起。
The requirement of 0.8 doctors per bed is even more remote.
国外ICU对护理人员的数量要求很高，以英国为例，一张床位至少配置7名护理人员。
In the UK, for example, there are at least seven paramedics in one bed.
专家指出，对于分秒必争的危重病人来说，医护人员的数量与病人预后直接相关，人员配置越高，病人照看和治疗得越精细。
Experts say the number of staff is directly related to a patient's prognosis for critically ill patients who struggle against the clock, and that the higher the staffing, the more intensive care and treatment patients receive.
在ICU人员配备不足的情况下超负荷运转，就不可避免地将病人置于潜在的危险中，且病房的安全性、秩序及环境都面临挑战。
Overloading an ICU with inadequate staffing inevitably puts patients at risk, and poses challenges to the security, order, and environment of the ward.
对于加床的种种理由，杜斌质疑，“真的到了一个医院必须要收治超额病人的地步吗？在一些医院ICU人满为患的同时，还有另一些医院的ICU根本住不满。
For all the reasons for adding beds, Mr. Du questioned whether 'getting to a hospital really involves taking in excess patients? While some hospitals are overcrowded, others have ICUs that simply aren't satisfied.
为什么病人不愿意去那些医院？这才是医疗决策者该想的问题。
Why are patients reluctant to go to those hospitals? That is the question for health-care policymakers.
”2009年深化医改启动以来，为解决看病难问题，分级诊疗作为重点问题被频频提及。
Since the beginning of the 2009 reform, graded medical treatment has been frequently mentioned as a key issue to solve the problem.
然而“虹吸效应”依旧明显，人财物仍然过度地集中在少数大医院。
However, the siphon effect is still evident, with people and possessions still disproportionately concentrated in a few major hospitals.
刘小军举了一个例子，在河南省最偏远的台前县，他曾去做技术帮扶，发现当地医院的ICU里一位病人都没有。
Liu cited a case in Taichung, one of Henan's most remote counties, where he had gone for technical help and found that none of the patients in the local hospital's ICU was there.
“因为当病人住进来的时候，大夫只能说‘这个病很重，我以前没见过，不知道怎么办’。
"Because when the patient came in, the doctor could only say, 'This is a serious illness I haven't seen before and I don't know what to do'.
这个时候，病人家属会怎么选择？”北京大学国家发展研究院经济学教授刘国恩指出，居民不去基层医疗机构就诊的主要原因，就是对医生专业技能的担心，即对医疗服务质量的担心。
Liu Guoan, an economics professor at Peking University's National Development Research Institute, said that the main reason people did not attend primary-level medical institutions was their concern about doctors' professional skills, or the quality of care they received.
“至少提供正确的医疗服务应是各级医疗机构的底线。
"At the very least, providing the right medical care should be the bottom line at all levels.
卫生技术人员的专业知识和临床技能是基础，但现况仍然是令人担心的。
The professional knowledge and clinical skills of health technicians are fundamental, but the current situation remains worrisome.
”人大财经委2018年底提交的一份调研报告指出，优质医疗人才供给不足且配置不均是分级诊疗开展缓慢的主要障碍。
A survey submitted at the end of 2018 by the National People's Congress said the insufficient supply and uneven distribution of quality medical personnel was a major obstacle to the slow development of graded clinics.
在河南省，很多县级医院为了创二级医院，纷纷设立ICU病房。
In Henan Province, many county hospitals have set up ICU wards in order to create second-class hospitals.
但刘小军指出，目前的情况是，有三分之一的县级医院重症医学开展能力不够，主要原因是没有人才，缺医生、缺护士。
But Liu pointed out that the current situation is that one-third of county hospitals have insufficient capacity to carry out intensive care, mainly due to lack of personnel, doctors and nurses.
郸城县中医院今年创二级医院，开设重症医学科。
Yan'an City County Chinese Hospital this year created a second-level hospital, opened severe medicine.
这间有11张病床的ICU病房目前仅有四名医生，其中三位是专科毕业或在职本科学历。
The 11-bed ICU ward currently has only four doctors, three of whom are college graduates or in-service graduates.
从从医经历来看，他们此前在神经内科或急诊科工作，均没有重症医学背景。
From their medical experience, they had no previous medical background in either neurology or emergency department.
“除了县人民医院好一点，县二院、县妇保健院、县中医院这些日子不好过的，收入上不来，更加难招到人才。
"Besides the county people's hospital better, the county second hospital, county gynecology home, county Chinese hospital these days difficult, income does not come up, more difficult to recruit talent.
”多位ICU从业人员认为，不同层级医院之间在医疗硬件资源方面的差距已经逐渐缩小。
Many ICU practitioners believe the gap in health-care hardware resources between different levels of hospitals has narrowed.
浙江省立同德医院ICU主任胡马洪告诉《中国新闻周刊》，在浙江，即使是县级医院，也都能买得起被认为是当前最先进的生命支持设备人工膜肺（ECMO），但关键是，人才方面的差距依然较大。
Even county-level hospitals in Zhejiang can afford what is considered the most advanced life-support device, the artificial membrane lung (ECMO), but it is critical that the talent gap remains large, Hu Mahun, director of ICU at Zhejiang Litong De Hospital, told China News Weekly.
杜斌指出，时至今日，重症医学已经发展成为独立的医学专科，其理论体系、专业知识与技能并非传统学科能够涵盖，需要经过系统的理论学习和临床实践方能掌握。
To date, severe medicine has developed into an independent medical specialty whose theoretical system, expertise and skills are not covered by traditional disciplines and require systematic theoretical learning and clinical practice, Du said.
临床治疗的标准化或同质化，被公认为是医学学科发展成熟的重要标志。
The standardization or homogenization of clinical treatment is recognized as an important sign of the development of medical science.
面对一个急性心肌梗死病例，按理说，治疗方案无论是在北京还是在广西都应该是一样的。
In the face of an acute myocardial infarction, the treatment protocol should be the same, both in Beijing and Guangxi.
杜斌说，“但现实情况令人遗憾，医院间的差别太大了，这种差别肯定并不是技术设备，而是在治疗理念与掌握的知识、技能方面。
But the reality is so sad, the differences between hospitals are so great, the difference is certainly not in technical equipment, but in the concept of treatment and the knowledge, skills, "Mr. Du said.
”ICU病房内，医护人员将手套吹成气球的形状，写上一些鼓励的话，为病人加油鼓气，给病房增加了一些生气。
In the ICU ward, paramedics blow gloves into the shape of balloons, writing words of encouragement to cheer up patients and add some life to the ward.
图/ 视觉中国“不同质，这是中国医学人才培养中最大的问题。
Graph / Vision China is different in quality, which is the biggest problem in Chinese medical personnel training.
”在詹庆元看来，面对同一个疾病，即便在不同的医院接受培训，培训后医生在疾病的处理方案上原则上应该是一致的。
Even if trained in different hospitals for the same disease, doctors should, in principle, be consistent in their plans for dealing with the disease, according to Mr Zhan.
但目前的情况是，一个医生能够得到怎样的培训，很大程度上取决于科室主任的培养方案和思路。
However, the current situation is that what kind of training a doctor can receive depends to a large extent on the training programmes and thinking of section directors.
席修明也认为，培养一个好的年轻医生，关键在于毕业后的继续教育，其中最重要的就是综合病人各种信息之后做出治疗决策的能力，而中国在这方面的规范化培训体系才刚刚起步。
He agrees that the key to developing a good young doctor lies in continuing education after graduation, the most important of which is the ability to make therapeutic decisions after synthesizing patient information.
与国外医师教育和培训统一的高门槛不同，中国的医学教育水平参差不齐，要想缓解一部分医院的ICU“撑着”而另一部分医院的ICU“饿着”的状态，补齐不同医院医生的诊疗水平、医学生毕业后的同质化培训，就愈发重要。
Different from the high threshold of foreign doctors' education and training, the level of medical education varies widely in China. It is all the more important to alleviate the "starving" status of ICU in some hospitals and the "hungry" status in others.
在论及中国重症医学面临的问题与挑战时杜斌指出，ICU床位数的增加并不意味着医疗质量的相应提高，而从事重症医学的人员才是最关键的决定因素。
In discussing the problems and challenges facing severe medicine in China, Du pointed out that the increase in the number of ICU beds did not mean a corresponding improvement in the quality of care, and that it was the personnel involved in severe medicine who were the most critical determinants.
在国内ICU飞速发展的同时，从业人员缺乏必要的培训是不争的事实。
With the rapid development of ICU in China, it is an indisputable fact that practitioners lack the necessary training.
如果不能及时加以解决，必将成为影响重症医学进一步发展的重大障碍。
If it can not be solved in time, it will become a major obstacle to the further development of severe medicine.
第二轮医改将农村人口纳入新农合医疗保障体系后，过去很多放弃治疗的重病患者现在能够负担得起更好的医疗。
After the second round of health care reform brought the rural population into the NRHS, many seriously ill patients who abandoned treatment in the past can now afford better medical care.
席修明说，这意味着他们在面对生死抉择的时候，不必因无钱救治而放弃挽救生命的机会。
'This means they don't have to give up life-saving opportunities when faced with life-or-death choices because they don't have the money, 'he said.
他最大的希望是，未来医护人员的配置能够跟得上ICU的发展需求，且部分ICU实行开放式管理，让家属和护士共同给予重症病人更多照护，不再靠镇静剂与各种绑带的约束来“管理”ICU里那些在生死的边缘上挣扎的病人。
His greatest hope is that future staffing will keep pace with the growth of the ICU, and that some ICUs will be open-ended, allowing families and nurses to provide more care to critically ill patients, rather than relying on sedatives and bandages to "manage" patients on the edge of life and death.
那样，人文关怀才能在临床医疗中得以充分体现——在最危急的战场——重症监护病房。
In that way, humane care can be fully reflected in clinical medicine - in the most critical battleground - intensive care units.
值班编辑：石若萧封面报道之一《新冠病毒——我们要付出多大代价》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单封面报道之二《围城之战——我们如何过关》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单在家没事赚现金点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
Editor-in-Charge: One of the covers, New Crown Virus - How Much We Pay (composed of 5 stories), clicked on the bottom page to cover a second story, The Battle of the Siege - How We Gain!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情的启示：今后医院所有科室床位都可能减少，唯独ICU会增加。
The New Crown Epidemic Revelation: All hospital beds may be reduced in the future, with the exception of ICU.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情的启示：今后医院所有科室床位都可能减少，唯独ICU会增加";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "​中国人均占有的ICU病床数，与西方发达国家相比显然不够。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China's per capita share of ICU beds is clearly insufficient compared with Western developed countries.
另一方面，在ICU人员配备不足的情况下超负荷运转，就不可避免地将病人置于潜在的危险中";。
On the other hand, overloading an ICU with inadequate staffing inevitably places its patient at risk.;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
