国际公共卫生专家：关键不在拐点，要看以何标准确定疫情消灭。
International public health experts: the key is not the inflection point, but the criteria to determine the eradication of the epidemic.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
The following article comes from 中国慈善家杂志。
The following article comes from the Chinese philanthropist magazine.
Author 郜晓文。
AuthorGao Xiaowen.
中国慈善家杂志。
China Philanthropists Magazine.
中国新闻社主管、中国新闻周刊主办。
Head of China News Agency, hosted by China News Weekly.
立足中国，关注全球慈善公益及社会议题，提供专业、理性兼具深度与温度的报道和分析。
Based in China, focus on global public welfare and social issues, provide professional, rational depth and temperature coverage and analysis.
。
.
要允许公卫流行病学专家发表意见允许医生们讨论；要信息透明，不要怕社会小混乱小混乱可以避免大乱2月7日晚，医护人员做好准备即将进入武汉客厅“方舱医院”进行工作。
To allow public health epidemiologists to comment allows doctors to discuss; to be transparent, do not be afraid of small social chaos chaos can avoid chaos February 7 night, medical personnel are ready to enter Wuhan living room "square cabin hospital" to work.
据国家卫健委通报的数据，截至2月14日24时，全国累计报告确诊病例66492例（湖北54406例，武汉37914例），累计死亡病例1523例（湖北1457例，武汉1123例）。
As of 2400 hours on February 14, a total of 66492 confirmed cases (54406 in Hubei and 37,914 in Wuhan) had been reported nationwide, with a total of 1,523 deaths (1,457 in Hubei and 1,123 in Wuhan), according to figures reported by the National Health Commission.
虽然其他省份的新增确诊病例数在下降，但武汉和湖北的疫情防控工作仍然处在胶着和吃紧的阶段。
Although the number of newly confirmed cases in other provinces is decreasing, the prevention and control of the epidemic in Wuhan and Hubei are still stuck and tight.
针对国内外新冠肺炎疫情最新发展的态势，以及如何反思我国重大疾病防控体制机制和公共卫生管理体系等问题，2月14日，美国加州大学洛杉矶分校（UCLA）公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风再次接受《中国慈善家》杂志专访。
Zhang style, vice-dean and senior professor of epidemiology at the UCLA School of Public Health, was re-interviewed by the Chinese philanthropist on February 14.
全世界都没有经验《中国慈善家》：请您介绍一下新冠病毒在全球发病的情况，有何特点？目前各国采取了哪些有效的防控措施？这次疫情是否会转化为世界大流行？张作风：2月11日，在世卫组织关于新冠肺炎的国际会议上，总干事谭德塞发出两个信息：第一是将新型冠状病毒感染引发的疾病正式命名为“COVID-19 ”，CO代表Corona（冠状物），VI代表Virus（病毒），D代表Disease（疾病）, 19代表2019 。
China Philanthropists: What are the characteristics of the new coronavirus worldwide? What effective prevention and control measures have been taken by various countries? Zhang style: February 11, 2006 At the WHO International Conference on Coronavirus infection, CO stands for Corona (Corona), VI for Virus (Virus) and D for 2019.
这个命名现在变成统一命名。
This name has now become the Unicode.
第二个信息，谭德塞说新冠病毒肺炎现在是世界的头号公敌，对世界的威胁非常严重，甚至可能大于恐怖主义对世界政治经济和社会的影响。
Second, he said, pneumonia is now the world's number one public enemy and poses a greater threat to the world than the political, economic and social impact of terrorism.
按照世卫组织的数据，截至2月14日，中国以外全球25个国家报告新冠病毒肺炎确诊病例是528例，其中包括两人死亡，发生在菲律宾(1例)和日本(1例)。
According to WHO data, as at 14 February, 25 countries worldwide outside China had reported 528 confirmed cases of pneumonia, including two deaths, in the Philippines (1 case) and Japan (1 case).
发病人数前几位的国家，包括日本255例，新加坡67例，泰国33例韩国28例，马来西亚19例，澳大利亚16例，越南有16例。
Top-ranked countries included 255 in Japan, 67 in Singapore, 28 in Thailand, 19 in Malaysia, 16 in Australia and 16 in Viet Nam.
国外病例的特点：一是大部分病人都有武汉、湖北或中国其他地方的接触史，二是重症病例相对比较少，三是死亡的比例比较小 (病死率是0.38%) 。
Foreign cases are characterized by: first, the majority of patients have a history of contact with Wuhan, Hubei or other parts of China; second, there are relatively few serious cases; and third, the proportion of deaths is relatively small (the fatality rate is 0.38%).
2月3日，医务人员查看患者肺部CT片。
On 3 February, medical staff examined the patient's lung CT scan.
各个国家采取的防控措施不太一样。
Prevention and control measures vary from country to country.
比如，在美国，如果一旦有新冠肺炎病人确诊的话，会把病人分类：轻症的病人就让他们居家隔离，重症的病人住在隔离医院的隔离病房里。
In the United States, for example, patients are classified if new cases of pneumonia are diagnosed: patients with mild cases are isolated at home, and patients with severe illnesses are housed in isolation wards in isolated hospitals.
轻症的病人一旦出现情况，马上给医院打电话入院治疗。
In the event of a mild case, call the hospital for treatment immediately.
美国从武汉撤侨的第一架飞机降在洛杉矶，机上的乘客已经有14天的隔离期，集中隔离在一个空军基地里面，一个病人也没有出现，2月12日他们全部回家了。
The first American plane to evacuate the overseas Chinese from Wuhan landed in Los Angeles. Passengers on board had been quarantined for 14 days at an airbase, and no patients showed up.
美国到目前为止一共有15个病人，其中有一个病人在第一次试剂盒测试时由于标签错误，将患者错分阴性，后来发现测试结果是阳性，这个病人已经走掉了，又把他叫回来进行隔离处理。
In one of the 15 patients tested so far in the United States, who had incorrectly labeled the patient negative for the first dose-box test, only to find that the test had been positive and the patient had gone away, calling him back for isolation.
包括美国CDC的样本测试，如果没有严格的质量控制，或者在整个过程中稍有疏忽，有可能会出现漏诊的病人。
Sample testing, including that of the United States CDC, may result in missed diagnosis if there is no strict quality control or if there is a slight oversight throughout the process.
所以，这并不是中国的特有问题，美国和世界其他国家也会出现同样的问题。
So this is not a China-specific problem; the same is true of the US and the rest of the world.
因为这是一个新型的传染病，大家对它都没有经验。
Because this is a new type of infectious disease, people have no experience of it.
疫情是否会转化为世界大流行很难讲，因为各个国家对这个疾病的重视程度不一样。
It is difficult to say whether the epidemic will translate into a world pandemic, given the different levels of attention given to it by individual countries.
目前，海外也已经发现了超级传播者。
Supercarriers have also been found overseas.
1月20日至22日，现年53岁的英国男子史蒂夫·沃尔什在新加坡开会，接触了一名参会的湖北感染者，在从新加坡到法国、瑞士再到英国的旅途中，无意间将病毒传播给了至少来自三个国家的11人，这些人可能还会再传给其他人。
Steve Walsh, a 53-year-old British man who met in Singapore from January 20 to 22, came into contact with a Hubei infected person who, while traveling from Singapore to France and Switzerland to Britain, unwittingly spread the virus to at least 11 people from three countries, who may then pass it on to others.
发现这个超级的传播者，实际上说明新冠病毒的传染性是非常强的，所以我们一定要提高警惕。
The discovery of this super communicator is actually an indication that the new crown virus is highly contagious, so we must be vigilant.
在武汉，有家庭群体性病例的暴发，主要是由于有些病人进不了医院，还是和家里人住在一起又没有充分地进行自我隔离，或者是家里的空间比较小，这很容易产生聚集性暴发。
In Wuhan, there have been outbreaks of family group cases, mainly due to the fact that some patients are unable to enter hospitals, live with their families without adequate self-segregation, or have relatively small spaces at home, which can easily lead to concentrated outbreaks.
在美国，病人居家隔离是一个非常严格的方法，包括限制在自己的房间里面，不共用餐具、厕所或者客厅、厨房，防止把自己的疾病传染给家人。
In the United States, home isolation is a very strict method, including confinement to one's own room and not sharing tableware, toilets or living rooms or kitchens to prevent the transmission of one's illness to one's family.
所以，家庭群体性的病例加速暴发，通过病人的自我隔离或住院隔离，对家人的危险就会减少，是可以避免的。
As a result, the incidence of family-group cases accelerates, and the risk to families is reduced and avoidable through patient self-isolation or hospitalization.
现在国内的报道还是有一些无症状的病人，检测阳性的病人能够传染给其他人，所以我们要非常警惕。
There are still some asymptomatic cases reported at home, where positive patients can be passed on to others, so we need to be very vigilant.
但是我个人认为，这种无症状的病例可能他携带的病毒的毒害得不是太强，所以他传给其他人的话症状未必太严重。
But I personally think this asymptomatic case may not be too toxic with the virus he carries, so the symptoms he passes on to others are not necessarily serious.
这是一个科研的假设，有待于将来进行验证。
This is a scientific hypothesis to be tested in the future.
更重要的不是拐点《中国慈善家》：关于新冠病毒的存活条件，目前有两种观点：一种认为在低温条件下活跃，一种认为天气转暖也能存活。
More important is not the inflection point "Chinese philanthropist": on the survival conditions of the new crown virus, there are two views: one thinks active in low temperature conditions, one thinks warm weather can survive.
您怎么看？新冠病毒是否会发生变异？张作风：关于气温对新冠病毒的影响，现在国内很多人可能认为，春暖花开会不会引起这个疾病的消失。
What do you think? Will the new crown virus mutate? Zhang style: With regard to the effect of temperature on the new crown virus, many people in China may now think that spring flowers will cause the disease to disappear.
参照SARS流行的情况，2002年11月份就开始了，真正结束流行是在2003年7月初，整个时间跨度将近8个月。
In the light of the SARS epidemic, which began in November 2002, the real end of the epidemic took place in early July 2003 over a period of almost eight months.
所以，气温对新冠病毒影响的预测，可能会不准。
Therefore, the forecast of the effect of temperature on the new crown virus may not be accurate.
因为在新加坡、马来西亚、菲律宾、香港、广州等比较热的地方，还有发病。
Because in Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Hong Kong, Guangzhou and other hot places, there are still cases.
洛杉矶现在已经是春暖花开了，但还是有病人。
Los Angeles is now in full bloom, but there are patients.
所以我们不能松懈，等待春暖花开的到来，应该还是要严阵以待。
So we can not relax, waiting for the arrival of spring flowers, should still be ready.
关于病毒会不会变异的问题，到目前为止还没有看到有明显的变异。
So far, there has been no significant variation in whether the virus will mutate.
但是如果有变异的情况，这个病毒的毒力可能上升或下降。
But if there are mutations, the virulence of the virus may increase or decrease.
这种情况现在通过武汉或者湖北的数据是很难判断的，一般来说从其他的省市可以看出它的动力是上升还是下降。
It is difficult to judge whether the data from Wuhan or Hubei are right now. Generally speaking, other provinces and cities can see whether the impetus is rising or falling.
具体来说，要看从1月20日以后，其他省市重型病例的比例是不是有下降趋势。
Specifically, it will depend on whether there is a downward trend in the proportion of heavy cases in other provinces and municipalities after 20 January.
如果有下降趋势的话，可能提示这个病毒的毒力有所下降。
If there is a downward trend, it may suggest that the virus is becoming less virulent.
但是这个也很难说，因为重症病例的定义是什么，可能各地的标准不一样。
But this is hard to say, because the definition of severe cases may vary from place to place.
按照病毒和人共存的假设，很多病毒学家都认为病毒在传播过程中，它也需要生存，所以对人的毒力会逐渐下降，下降到最后可能就像流行性感冒。
Many virologists have assumed that the virus needs to survive as it spreads, so its virulence to humans drops to what might eventually be an influenza pandemic.
希望这是最好的结局。
I hope this is the best ending.
《中国慈善家》：2月14日，除湖北以外，全国其他省份新增确诊病例实现“十连降”。
"Chinese philanthropist": February 14, in addition to Hubei, the other provinces of the country's newly diagnosed cases to achieve "ten consecutive falls."
这是否意味着疫情进入平台期？根据目前发病的数据，能否判断全国疫情的拐点已经到来？张作风：首先要知道拐点的定义是什么。
Does this mean that the epidemic is entering a plateau? Based on current data, can we say that the inflection point of the national epidemic has arrived? Zhang style: First of all, what is the definition of the inflection point?
所谓的拐点就是有一个发病的最高点，然后疫情持续下降有一定的时间。
The so-called inflection point is that there is a peak, and then the epidemic continues to decline for a certain time.
这个时间就看我们怎么定，有人建议14天是一个潜伏期，有人建议7天是一个周期。
Depending on how we decide, it is suggested that 14 days be a latency period and that 7 days be a cycle.
如果定在7天的话，可能很多地方的拐点已经到了，因为在最近7天期间，全国除湖北外的各个省市发病人数都有相应的下降。
If it is set at seven days, the inflection point in many places may have arrived, because in the past seven days, the number of cases in all provinces and municipalities except Hubei has decreased correspondingly.
保守一点讲可以定14天，这样看到一个拐点比较平稳。
Conservative can be set at 14 days, so that a relatively smooth inflection point.
同时，也可能受最近返程潮的影响，绝大部分返城工作的人当中可能有发病的话，会增加一定的发病数。
At the same time, may also be affected by the recent return tide, the vast majority of people who return to work may have the disease, will increase the number of certain diseases.
这样的情况下，再继续观察一个星期，这样就可以非常有把握地说，疫情的拐点已经看到了。
In this case, continue observing for another week, so that you can say with a high degree of certainty that the inflection point of the outbreak has been seen.
从全国的情况来看，2月4日到2月11日，这一个星期新冠肺炎发病下降了48%。
Nationwide, the number of new cases fell by 48 percent between February 4 and February 11.
非常可观。
Very impressive.
但是2月12号，湖北新增病例因为诊断标准的改变突然增加，导致全国当天新发病例急升超过15000千例。
But on Feb. 12, a sudden increase in new cases in Hubei province, due to changes in diagnostic criteria, caused the number of new cases to jump by more than 15,000 nationwide that day.
因为这不是自然的增加，改变了全国的新发病例趋势分析。
Because this is not a natural increase, it changes the national trend analysis of new cases.
在这一周里面，下降率比较高的，超过60%以上的地方包括广东、浙江、河南、上海、北京、山东和安徽。
During the week, more than 60 percent of the decline occurred in Guangdong, Zhejiang, Henan, Shanghai, Beijing, Shandong and Anhui provinces.
如果说没有看到明显的新增病例的上升，同时各地的发病继续下降的话，那么全国除湖北外各个省市疫情的拐点基本上就是在2月4号这一天。
If no significant increase in new cases has been observed and the number of cases continues to decline everywhere, the inflection point for all provinces and municipalities except Hubei is basically February 4.
很多人在说返程潮会不会引起发病的上升。
Many people are saying that the return tide will not cause an increase in morbidity.
当然是有可能，因为这些回城工作的人是从全国各地回来的，特别是从高流行的省市来的，他们是不是有可能把当地的病毒带回来，他们会不会是无症状感染者？这些大家都比较担忧，也可以理解。
It is possible, of course, because these people coming back to work in cities and towns from all over the country, especially from high-prevalence provinces and cities, are they likely to bring back the local virus, or are they asymptomatic infected?
但是，从另外一个方面来看，回程的这批人，绝大多数都经历了至少两个星期的隔离，如果他们隔离期间没有发病的话，再加上对返程人员有一至两周的在家隔离要求，在这个期间新发病人不会增加太多。
On the other hand, however, the vast majority of the returning group had experienced at least two weeks of isolation, during which the number of new cases would not have increased significantly if they had not been ill during the isolation period, combined with one to two weeks of home isolation requirements for returning personnel.
这个我是比较乐观的。
I'm optimistic about that.
现在更重要的一个问题，并不是要看疫情拐点，而是要看以什么样的标准确定彻底地消灭新冠肺炎。
The more important question now is not whether to look at the inflection point of the outbreak, but what criteria should be used to determine the definitive eradication of pneumonia.
对于一个新发传染病病的控制，世卫组织的标准是，最后一个病人治疗完毕以后，在两个潜伏期内(28天) 没有出现新的病人，我们可以宣布疫情完全结束。
For the control of an emerging infectious disease, the WHO standard is that, after the last patient has been treated and no new patients appear during the two incubation periods (28 days), we can declare the outbreak completely over.
但这是一个非常艰巨的任务。
But it is a very difficult task.
第一，发病要持续下降到零，第二，要认真治疗所有住院的病人，让他们尽快康复，一直到最后一个病人。
First, the disease must continue to decline to zero, and secondly, all hospitalized patients should be carefully treated, so that they can recover as soon as possible to the last patient.
而且要再等待两个潜伏期。
And wait for two more latencies.
所以现在的工作非常艰巨，不但要发现病人，而且要治疗病人。
So now the job is very difficult, not only to find patients, but also to treat patients.
要把所有病人全治好以后，还要等待两个潜伏期。
There are two latency periods to wait until all patients are cured.
2月8日，北京西站，观望的乘客与站岗的警卫。
Feb. 8, Beijing West Station, watching passengers and guards on guard.
《中国慈善家》：随着春节假期结束和企业复工，前期各地采取的封闭和隔离措施，面临着与复工复产之间的矛盾。
"Chinese philanthropist": With the end of the Spring Festival and the resumption of business, the closure and isolation measures taken in the previous period, face the contradiction between the resumption of work and the resumption of production.
在这种情况下，前期的防控措施是否需要继续坚持，或者可以做出适当调整？张作风：复工可能会对疫情防控有一些影响，因为返程复工人员主要集中在北上广深这些人口流动性比较大的城市，复工给这些城市的防控系统带来较大的压力。
Zhang style: The resumption of work may have some impact on the prevention and control of the epidemic, as returning workers are mainly concentrated in the more mobile cities north of the country, putting more pressure on control systems in these cities.
我认为复工回来的人群大部分都已经过封闭和隔离，起码都有两周的隔离时间。
I think most of the people who have returned to work have been closed and isolated, at least for two weeks.
如果在这个期间没有发病的话，他们的危险性相对会有下降。
If the disease did not develop during this period, their risk would be relatively reduced.
最怕的就是没有症状的带菌者。
The most feared are asymptomatic carriers.
这种情况下如果不能在家工作的话，按照各地的情况，应该一个企业一个企业地观察，看看他们的防控措施怎么样，如果他们的防控措施把比较完整的话，可以考虑让他们复工。
If home-based work is not possible in such cases, depending on the local situation, companies should look at their control measures and, if their control measures are more complete, consider returning them to work.
如果有一个严密的复工的防控条件的话，也可以避免复工以后疾病的流行。
If there is a strict conditions for the resumption of work control, can also avoid the disease after the resumption of the epidemic.
要注意复工时的一些具体问题。
Pay attention to some specific problems when you get back to work.
一些在大城市工作的人他们在当地没有自己的房子，如果现在进行小区封闭的话，这些租房子的人有些小区可能会不让他们进来。
Some people who work in big cities don't have their own homes in the area, and if the neighborhood is closed now, some of these renters may not let them in.
这种情况我觉得社区管理者也要理解，通过协调把这个问题解决掉。
This situation I feel community managers should also understand, through coordination to solve this problem.
这些人也需要继续工作，需要有一个生存的环境。
These people also need to continue working and to have a living environment.
另外，还有一些复工的人是摆小摊卖菜的或者是零售店员工，我觉得应该给他们一些机会，让他们可以生存，因为他们的生活完全依赖这些手段。
In addition, there are those who return to work as market vendors or retail store employees, and I think they should be given a chance to survive because their lives depend entirely on these tools.
要有一些措施来保护这些人，同时也要保护其他的人。
Some measures should be taken to protect these people as well as others.
所以，整个社会要有一个全盘的考虑，如果单纯是为了防控的话，也会影响到整个的社会经济。
Therefore, the whole society should have a comprehensive consideration, if only for prevention and control, will also affect the entire socio-economic.
心理创伤不可低估《中国慈善家》：据国家卫健委统计，截至2月11日，全国抗疫一线的医护人员感染病例已达1716人。
China's philanthropist cannot be underestimated: As of February 11, 1,716 health-care workers nationwide had contracted the disease, according to the National Health Commission.
请问在救治过程中，医护人员如何做好自身防护工作，如何疏导心理压力和负面情绪？张作风：为什么会产生目前大量医护人员感染呢？我认为，主要是武汉封城的准备工作做得不充分。
In the process of treatment, how do medical personnel do their own protection, how to channel psychological pressure and negative emotions? Zhang style: Why the current large number of medical staff infection? I think, mainly because the preparation for the closure of Wuhan has not done enough.
由于封城造成人群心理上的恐慌，大批病人和非病人涌进医院。
Because of the psychological panic caused by the closure of the city, large numbers of patients and non-patients rushed to the hospital.
武汉虽然有很多医院，但是承受能力并不是太强，医生的承受能力也是有限的，这就实际上造成了医护人员或是整个医院的崩溃。
Wuhan although there are many hospitals, but the carrying capacity is not too strong, doctors can afford it is limited, which in fact caused the collapse of medical personnel or the entire hospital.
新发传染病在传染流行的早期，信息应该是透明的，这样医护人员通过培训能够知道怎么保护自己。
Emerging infectious diseases In the early stages of an epidemic, information should be transparent so that health-care workers know how to protect themselves through training.
同时，医院也应该对医护人员进行培训，不单是对发热门诊，对所有科室都应该进行培训。
At the same time, the hospital should also train medical personnel, not just for the fever clinic, but for all units.
第一，要让医护人员知道这个病的严重性；第二，要有足够的保护医护人员的防护用品。
First, let health care workers know the seriousness of the disease; secondly, have adequate protective equipment to protect health-care workers.
到现在看起来准备工作是很不足的，这也是引起大量医护人员发病的一个比较主要的原因。
So far it seems that the preparation work is very inadequate, which is also caused by a large number of medical staff morbidity is a major reason.
最近的报告说，在武汉有41%——非常高的比例——的病人是在医院里感染的，其中有20%多是医护人员的感染。
A recent report said 41 percent - a very high percentage - of patients in Wuhan were infected in hospitals, more than 20 percent of whom were infected by medical personnel.
就是说，五个病人当中起码有一个是医护人员的感染。
That is to say, at least one in five patients is infected by health-care workers.
这样算下来的话，武汉的医护人员感染的情况是非常严重的。
If this counts down, Wuhan medical staff infected with the situation is very serious.
可见，医院里的感染是非常严重的，因为一些病人进不了医院，他就在社会上到处跑，到医院感染医院里健康的人和医护人员。
So the infection in the hospital is very serious, because some patients can not get to the hospital, he runs around the society, to the hospital infects the healthy people in the hospital and the medical staff.
基本上所有的医院都因为这样的情况。
Almost all hospitals are affected by this situation.
封城之下的心理创伤是不可低估的。
The psychological trauma under the siege cannot be underestimated.
病人和被隔离者的心理创伤，医生护士的灾后综合症，死者家属深重的心理创伤，儿童在封城居家期间产生的心理阴影。
The psychological trauma of the sick and isolated, the post-disaster syndrome of the doctors and nurses, the deep psychological trauma of the families of the deceased, the psychological shadow of the children during the stay-at-home stay in the city.
这些严重的心理问题，如果武汉群众不能及时地得到有针对性的心理辅导和治疗，不能通过各种渠道进行心理发泄，心理创伤所致的精神疾病会大量上升，影响社会的健康发展。
These serious psychological problems, if Wuhan people do not receive timely targeted psychological guidance and treatment, can not be psychological vent through various channels, psychological trauma will cause a large number of mental illness will rise, affecting the healthy development of society.
建议在选派医疗队时，要有心理精神科的专家参加，有心理系的大学开展以互联网为基础的心理咨询和治疗，允许社交媒体让群众有心理发泄的渠道，鼓励有条件的群众把心中之痛写出来。
It is recommended that medical teams be selected with the participation of experts in the field of psychiatry, that universities with psychology departments conduct Internet-based psychological counselling and treatment, that social media be allowed to provide psychological outlets for the masses to express their pain, and that those in a position to do so be encouraged to write down their pain.
特别重要的，是要对儿童尤其是亲人病逝的孩子及时进行心理干预，以免灾疫造成的心理阴影陪随他们一生，影响健康成长。
It is particularly important to provide timely psychological intervention to children, especially those who have died of illness or illness, so as to avoid the psychological shadow caused by the plague to accompany them throughout their lives and affect their healthy growth.
《中国慈善家》：针对疫情应对过程中暴露的问题，能否结合国外的成熟经验，谈谈中国疾病防控体制和机制应该如何进一步改进和完善？张作风：第一，中国已经有近百所公卫学院和医学院，培养很多公共卫生本科和研究生，问题是培养出来的很多人才学不致用，主要是因为公共卫生的重要性没有受到国家和社会的充分认识。
Zhang style: First, there are nearly a hundred public health colleges and medical schools in China, training a lot of undergraduate and graduate students in public health. The problem is that many of the trained talents are useless, mainly because the importance of public health is not fully recognized by the state and society.
要培养高层次的公卫流行病学专家，关键时候可以领军控制疫情。
Cultivating high-level public health epidemiologists can lead the way in controlling the epidemic when critical.
第二，要加强各个公卫学院的急性传染病（或新发传染病）的教学和科研，在重点的公卫学院建立新发传染病的博士学位和博士后工作站。
Second, the teaching and research of acute infectious diseases (or emerging infectious diseases) at public health colleges should be strengthened, and doctorates and post-doctoral workstations for newly emerging infectious diseases should be established at priority public health colleges.
第三，加強新发传染病的国际交流，参加联合国的新发传染病在各国的防疫，增加国内专家在新发传染病的紧急状况下的应急预案和处理能力。
Third, it will strengthen the international exchange of newly emerging infectious diseases, participate in the UN's national epidemic prevention of newly emerging infectious diseases, and increase the capacity of domestic experts in emergency preparedness and handling of new and emerging infectious diseases.
第四，加强从国家到省市的疾控中心，把事业单位变成行政单位，改善待遇，留住人才。
Fourth, strengthen disease control centers from the state to provinces and cities, turn public institutions into administrative units, improve treatment and retain talent.
第五，在各级疾控中心增设急性传染病配套的预备队伍，平时分散在各科室，紧急状态下拉出就能战。
Fifth, at all levels of the CDC to increase the acute infectious disease support team, usually scattered in the departments, emergency can be pulled out of the war.
第六，各级卫健委和疾控中心领导任命时，应该优先考虑有公共卫生流行病学背景，以及在应急传染病控制中的应急能力。
Sixth, when appointing leaders of health care committees and disease control centers at all levels, priority should be given to public health epidemiology background and emergency response capability in emergency infectious disease control.
这一点在国家和省级卫健委和疾控中心这个层次尤为重要。
This is particularly important at the level of national and provincial health committees and CDC.
第七，要信息透明，不要怕社会小混乱，小混乱可以避免大乱。
Seventh, to transparent information, do not be afraid of social chaos, small chaos can avoid chaos.
不要把维稳思维用在急性传染病的防控过程中，要允许公卫流行病学专家发表意见，允许医生们讨论。
Do not use sound thinking in the prevention and control of acute infectious diseases. Allow public health epidemiologists to comment and doctors to discuss them.
第八，尊重病人和家属的隐私，在治疗和隔离过程中，要给予病人及其家属亲友人文关怀。
Eighth, respect the privacy of patients and their families, in the course of treatment and isolation, patients and their families to give humane care.
《中国慈善家》：新冠肺炎已在全球多个国家蔓延，国际社会应该如何展开合作，共同抗击这次疫情带来的危害？张作风：控制新冠病毒疫情的蔓延，不是中国一个国家面临的挑战。
CHINESE CHARACTERISTICS: Now that pneumonia has spread in many countries around the world, how can the international community work together to combat the epidemic? Zhang style: Controlling the spread of the New Crown Virus epidemic is not a challenge for China alone.
作为全球共同体，中国的问题也就是其他国家的问题。
As a global community, China's problems are those of other countries.
在防控新冠病毒的问题上，如果没有世界共同合作努力的话，单靠中国也是不容易做好的。
China alone will not be able to do well in the fight against the new crown virus without a concerted global effort.
第一，加强世界各国之间的合作，邀请对新发传染病有经验的专家到中国来一起参加防控，不仅可以学到他们的防控经验，也可以推广中国防控疾病的优点。
First, by strengthening cooperation among countries around the world and inviting experts with experience in new infectious diseases to come to China for prevention and control, we can not only learn from their experience in prevention and control, but also promote the advantages of disease prevention and control in China.
最近世卫组织的专家来了中国，其他国家有兴趣也应该积极邀请他们一起来参加交流，学习世界各地预防控制新发传染病的经验和教训。
Recently, experts from WHO have come to China, and other countries are interested and should actively invite them to participate in the exchange of experiences and lessons learned from the prevention and control of emerging infectious diseases around the world.
第二，当前紧要的是在诊断试剂上的合作，因为诊断试剂的敏感性、特异性不够的话，会造成假阳性或者假阴性的情况出现。
Secondly, cooperation on diagnostic reagents is crucial at this time, as the sensitivity and specificity of diagnostic reagents are insufficient to produce false positive or false-negative results.
所以最好和世界各国合作来优化诊断试剂。
So it's best to work with countries around the world to optimize diagnostic reagents.
这样可以避免确实是新冠病毒的病人没有被诊断出来的可能性，减少不住院的病人在社会上传播病毒。
This avoids the possibility that patients who are truly new to the crown virus will not be diagnosed and reduces the social transmission of the virus by non-hospitalized patients.
第三，开始做血清抗体的研究，我们叫血清流行病学。
Third, we begin to do seroantibody research, which we call seroepidemiology.
实际上，利用抗性可以把整个社区感染的情况全部摸出来。
In fact, the use of resistance allows the entire community to be mapped out for infection.
现在社区已经有不少恢复健康的人，对他们的抗体进行研究，通过抗体的设计，还可以知道这次流行病究竟有多少人患病。
Now the community has a lot of recovered people, their antibody research, through the design of antibodies, can also know how many people the epidemic.
另外，选送一些人到美国比较好的公共卫生学院进行培训，以后就成为一个新发传染病的专门人才，一旦有这个情况发生，他们就可以马上发挥作用。
In addition, by sending people to better public health colleges in the United States to train, they become specialists in emerging infectious diseases, and once that happens, they can make a difference immediately.
值班编辑：石若萧《中国新闻周刊》主办杂志《中国慈善家》新刊发布点击下图 一键下单。
Editor-in-Charge: Shiluo Xiao "China News Weekly" magazine sponsored a new issue of "China Philanthropists," click the button below to order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
国际公共卫生专家：关键不在拐点，要看以何标准确定疫情消灭。
International public health experts: the key is not the inflection point, but the criteria to determine the eradication of the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "国际公共卫生专家：关键不在拐点，要看以何标准确定疫情消灭";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; international public health expert: The key isn't at the inflection point. Rather, see by what standard AT & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "要信息透明，不要怕社会小混乱，小混乱可以避免大乱";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '新刊发布 | 瘟疫的泥潭，慈善的力量',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国慈善家杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; Chinese philanthropist magazine & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
