疫情冲击线下培训遇冷，千亿在线教育火爆入场。
Outbreak impact line training cold, 100 billion online education hot admission.
孟欣。
Meng Xin.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
行业将进行一轮洗牌“我明明是一个老师，现在网课把我变成了主播……”近日，这样的幽默自嘲在网上热传。
The industry will reshuffle "I am obviously a teacher, now the net class has turned me into a anchor..." Recently, such humor self-mockery in the online heat.
受新冠肺炎疫情影响，线下机构全面暂停，教育部宣布2020年春季开学延期，并提倡“停课不停学”，鼓励学校和培训机构将教育教学转移至线上场景，在线教育以前所未有的姿态受到全国的关注。
As a result of the new Crown Pneumonia epidemic, offline institutions were suspended across the board, the Ministry of Education announced an extension of the start of the school year in 2020, and promoted "non-stop learning," encouraging schools and training institutions to shift education and teaching to online settings, with online education gaining national attention in an unprecedented manner.
学而思、新东方、卓越教育等线下教育培训机构相继停课，转为免费赠送在线课程。
Online education and training institutions, such as Learning for Thought, New Oriental School and Excellence in Education, have been suspended and given free online courses.
2月3日，在线教育公司猿辅导开课首日500万学生同日在线听课，截至目前，免费直播课报名人数超过2000万。
On February 3, five million students on the first day of online instruction at the online education company Apes Mentoring Program received more than 20 million free live lessons so far.
从最近几天美股、港股的表现来看，受延迟开学消息影响，教育板块出现了两极分化的情况。
Judging by the performance of US stocks and Hong Kong stocks in recent days, the education sector has become polarized by the delayed start of the school year.
其中，多数教育股出现下跌，而在线教育股表现抢眼，新东方在线在1月29日盘中一度涨逾11%，创历史新高。
Among them, most education shares fell, while online education made a strong showing, with New Oriental up more than 11 per cent in trading on January 29, a record high.
线下培训受挫对于线下培训行业，2019年可谓是多事之秋，欠薪、倒闭甚至跑路现象层出不穷，疫情无异于令其雪上加霜。
With offline training thwarted, 2019 has been a troubled year for the offline training industry, exacerbated by rising wage arrears, failed businesses, and even a run on the road.
中国新闻周刊了解到，天景恒国际教育咨询（北京）有限公司于1月29日至2月1日因违反疫情防控期间线下培训机构停课要求，擅自开展高考艺术考前辅导培训经营活动而被吊销营业执照。
China News Weekly understands that Tianjing Heng International Educational Consultation (Beijing) Co. Ltd. was stripped of its business license from January 29 to February 1 for violating the requirements of the off-line training institutions during the period of epidemic prevention and control.
经查，该教育培训机构于1月17日接收72名外地来京高中生，向其提供绘画培训课程。
On January 17, the educational and training institution accepted 72 foreign high school students to Beijing and offered them drawing training courses.
2月6日晚间，知名IT培训机构兄弟连教育宣布，因受疫情影响，即日起，兄弟连北京校区停止招生，员工全部遣散。
On the night of February 6, the brothers of renowned IT training institutions announced that due to the impact of the epidemic, the brothers even stopped enrollment in the Beijing campus and all staff were discharged.
创始人李超称，公司资金储备少并且一直处于亏损状态，兄弟连在年前曾压缩成本、缓发工资、全体动员，计划在节后招生旺季打一个翻身仗，但疫情将计划全部打乱。
Founder Li Chao said the company had few reserves and had been losing money, and the brother had squeezed costs, delayed pay and mobilized all the year before to plan a major post-holiday recruitment season, but the outbreak disrupted all plans.
据企查查信息，兄弟连隶属于易第优(北京)教育咨询股份有限公司，成立已有13年。
According to the enterprise search information, brother company is affiliated with Yidiyou (Beijing) Educational Consulting Co. Ltd., has been established for 13 years.
2015年，兄弟连获得华图1.25亿战略投资。
In 2015, Brothers received a strategic investment of $125 million in Huatu.
2016年年报显示，当年收入1.35亿，净利润1169.6万元。
The 2016 annual report shows revenue of 135 million yuan and net profit of 11.696 million yuan.
这种行业内的灾难在2003年“非典”期间就曾出现过。
Disasters in this industry occurred during the SARS epidemic in 2003.
当时，随着“非典”的暴发出现了学员挤兑退费潮，而新东方已把预付款投入到暑期教学、租教室、印资料、搞市场宣传等，情况十分严峻。
At the time, with the outbreak of SARS, there was a wave of student runs and refunds, and New Oriental has invested in summer teaching, classroom rental, printing materials and marketing campaigns.
最终，俞敏洪靠着借来的2000万元才渡过危机。
In the end, Yu Minhong borrowed 20 million yuan to survive the crisis.
广证恒生分析师黄莞认为，短期线下培训业态春招停滞，中小企业存在现金流断裂风险。
Guangzhou Hang Seng analyst Huangguan, short-term training industry stagnation, small and medium-sized enterprises cash flow fracture risk.
此次疫情暴发正值线下培训春季招生阶段，且由于市场情绪所致，后续恢复运营或不如常规状态，运营成本又相对刚性，加上潜在的退费挤兑行为，将加剧线下培训机构现金流断裂。
The outbreak coincided with the spring recruitment phase of offline training and, owing to market sentiment, the subsequent resumption of operations or sub-standard operating costs and the relative rigidity of operating costs, combined with potential run-backs, will exacerbate offline cash flow breakdowns for training institutions.
光大证券分析师刘凯认为，受疫情影响，新东方、好未来、中公教育等培训机构线下网点暂时关停。
Everbright Securities analyst Liu Kai, affected by the epidemic, New Oriental, good future, public education and other training institutions such as the temporary closure of the offline network.
短期来看，全行业培训机构不仅面临收入端的压力，而且租金成本、人员薪酬、运营成本等更让企业面临一定的压力；但长期来看，培训需求和产业趋势仍然向好。
In the short term, industry-wide training organizations are under pressure not only on the revenue side, but also on rental costs, staff salaries, operating costs, etc., but in the long run, training needs and industry trends are still positive.
一方面是升学难度大，由于高考体制、历史文化传承、新高考改革、三四线城市需求暴发，K12线下培训市场需求仍然巨大；另一方面是就业难度大，在经济不景气和就业难的情况下，职业培训和学历提升成了很多毕业大学生的选择，辅导刚性、教材需求、报名人数增长都催生整个市场的快速发展。
On the one hand, it is very difficult to continue studies, because of the college entrance examination system, historical and cultural heritage, the reform of the New College Entrance Examination and the explosion of demand in third and fourth-tier cities. On the other hand, it is difficult to find jobs.
在线教育大涨公开数据显示，2018年国内在线教育市场规模为1249亿元，预计2022年达到3102亿元，其中K12在线教育市场预计2022年将达到790亿元。
The online education market is expected to reach 310.2 billion yuan in 2022, with the K12 online education market expected to reach 79 billion yuan in 2022, according to publicly available data showing that the online education market in 2018 was 124.9 billion yuan.
在线教育门槛在于品牌知名度和教师资源。
The threshold of online education lies in brand awareness and teacher resources.
目前在线教育成本构成中，前期投入主要为研发成本，后期投入主要为市场推广和销售费用。
At present, the cost of online education is composed of the cost of research and development, the later investment is mainly marketing and sales expenses.
K12在线教育行业在2019年大暴发，几家头部在线教育公司2019年暑假预计投放总额约30亿-40亿元。
K12 The online education industry erupted in 2019, with several head-on online education companies expected to spend a total of about $3 billion to $4 billion in 2019.
其中，好未来、猿辅导2019年暑假促销课招生规模分别超过100万人次，特价班转正价班的转化率约20%-30%，正价班续班率预计70%-80%以上。
Among them, good future, ape counseling 2019 summer sales promotion class enrollment of more than 1 million people, special price shift conversion rate of about 20% - 30%, the rate is expected to be 70% - 80% or more.
新东方在线2019年暑假招生规模约20万人次。
New Oriental Online 2019 summer vacation enrollment of about 200,000 people.
近日，猿辅导在线教育向全国中小学生提供免费直播课，新东方为全国中小学用户免费提供100万份新东方在线春季班直播课程，学而思网校于2月10日起推出从周一到周五与校内时间同步的全年级各学科免费直播课和自学课，跟谁学和高途课堂向2万名武汉中小学生捐赠2000万元寒假正价直播课，网易有道向武汉市中小学生免费提供寒假线上课程。
New Oriental offers free live courses for primary and secondary school students nationwide, offering free live classes and self-study classes on a full-year basis for primary and secondary school users across the country. On February 10, NEXT introduced free live classes and self-study classes for primary and secondary school students throughout the year.
“线上课程资源不断丰富，既有在线教育机构的课程，也有公立校老师线上教学的内容。
"Online curriculum resources are constantly expanding, from online educational institutions to online teaching for teachers in public schools.
孩子学下来整体很有收获。
The children learned everything on the whole.
”来自北京的刘女士对中国新闻周刊表示，网课在一定程度上减轻了家长、教师和学生的负担。
Ms Liu, from Beijing, told China News Weekly that the classes had reduced the burden on parents, teachers and students to some extent.
不过她也坦言，网课存在良莠不齐的现象，建议精心选择课程，统一教材，由知名权威教师讲授精品课程，学校没必要让所有教师都上，不应以一拥而上的方式铺天盖地来上网课。
However, she admits that there are different kinds of classes, suggesting that courses should be carefully chosen, teaching materials should be standardized, quality courses should be taught by well-known and authoritative teachers, and schools should not have to send all teachers to online classes in a rush.
在学校老师仓促上阵之时，在线教育机构多年深耕直播课堂的优势逐渐体现出来。
In the rush of school teachers, online education institutions for many years of deep cultivation of the advantages of the classroom gradually reflected.
“猿辅导网课由一线名师亲授，依托大数据反哺教学，打造更科学系统化的在线直播课程。
"Apes tutorials are taught in person by front-line teachers to create a more systematic online course based on big data feedback.
同时，在线课堂上，学生可实时与老师视频连麦，在屏幕上用拖曳、连线等互动操作完成习题趣味作答。
At the same time, online classroom, students and teachers can be real-time video linked wheat, drag on the screen, such as interactive operation to complete the fun problem.
通过抢麦、上麦，在全班面前回答问题，能激发学生的学习兴趣，提升自信心。
By rooting for wheat and mac and answering questions in front of the class, students can be motivated to learn and improve their self-confidence.
”猿辅导相关负责人介绍。
"The apes tutor said.
猿辅导在线教育旗下小猿搜题拥有超1.6亿题目的海量题库，已提供330亿次作业辅导、2000万小时答疑讲解；猿题库迄今提供了7亿次题目练习服务，全国中小学生在猿题库练习时长已有9000万小时；小猿口算每日批改题目数超过2.5亿道，每日在线练习题目数超过2500万道，服务了3000多万小学生，积累了大量用户高频易错题、重难点数据，而海量的数据积累为更好地设计网课课程产品提供了有力支撑。
The Great Apes Research Program has provided 33 billion homework tutorials and 20 million question-and-answer sessions. So far, ape problem-solving service has provided over 700 million problem-solving services; over 25 million ape problem-solving exercises have been conducted by primary and secondary school students throughout the country.
在寒假延长期内，为帮助学生提升综合素质，猿辅导还推出了大师人文课和榜样青年说。
During the extension period, to help students improve their overall quality, ape counseling also launched a master humanities course and role model youth said.
大师人文课携手历史学者纪连海、《中国诗词大会》评委康震和蒙曼、军事专家张召忠等名师共同传道授业，提升学生的人文素养；榜样青年说课程则邀请哈佛大学法律博士詹青云、复旦大学副教授熊浩等，为学生开拓视野，树立远大志向。
Master humanities classes work with history scholars Ji Lianhai, judges Kang Zhen and Monman, military experts Zhang Zhaozhong and other eminent teachers to promote humanistic qualities. Young role models say that the course invites Dr. Zhan Qingyun from Harvard University and Associate Professor Xiong Hao from Fudan University.
为应对高三、初三特殊群体的需求，猿题库于2月15日开启的“百万人在线大模考”高度还原了中高考难度，并提供智能诊断报告和全国排名预测。
In response to the needs of special groups such as Senior Three and Junior Three, the Great Apes Online Model, launched on February 15 by the Great Apes Research Bank, has reduced the difficulty of the College Entrance Examination and provided intelligent diagnostic reports and national ranking projections.
据悉，猿辅导在线教育全国累计用户超过4亿，公司旗下拥有猿辅导网课、小猿搜题等多款在线学习产品，为学生量身定制从网课、智能练习到难题解析等全学习场景，提供个性化诊断，帮助学生系统性、高效率地完成学习闭环。
Many online learning products, such as Apes tutoring and apes search, are tailored to provide students with personalized diagnostics from online classes, intelligence exercises to problem-solving, and help them to complete the learning loop in a systematic and efficient manner.
光大证券分析师刘凯指出，疫情或将进一步培育和提升学生在线教育学习的使用习惯，进一步引导向在线转化，K12在线教育将是未来几年教育产业的黄金赛道。
Everbright Securities analyst Liu Kai pointed out that the epidemic may further nurture and enhance students' online learning habits, further guide to online transformation, K12 online education will be the next few years of the education industry's golden track.
西部证券李艳丽认为，此次行业将进行一轮洗牌，龙头公司在品牌知名度和师资力量上仍具核心竞争力，预计其表现在疫情期间会远好于行业平均水平。
Li Yanli of Western Securities believes that the industry will undergo a reshuffle, leading companies in brand awareness and teaching staff still have core competitiveness, its performance during the epidemic is expected to be far better than the industry average.
她分析，新东方、好未来和精锐教育绝大部分业务收入来自线下，估计2月收入占全年的比重约8%左右，对全年的收入影响有限。
The vast majority of revenue for New Oriental, Good Future and Sharp Education comes offline, she says, with February revenues estimated at about 8% for the year, with limited impact on revenues for the year.
龙头第一时间将线下课程搬到线上，一定程度上保障生源留存。
Leading the first time to move the offline courses online, to a certain extent to ensure the preservation of students.
若疫情持续时间较长，低年级学生补习需求有可能被削弱，同时线上价格低于线下面授，则全年收入将受到影响。
If the epidemic lasts longer, the need for remedial education for lower-grade students is likely to be weakened, while online prices are lower than offline face-to-face instruction, affecting annual income.
李艳丽表示，线上最大问题在于教师产能和后续学生服务，如果线上用户集中暴发，对于产品梳理和教师供给还有待优化，因此疫情平息后，线上业务增速大概率会有所回落。
Li said the biggest problems on the line were teacher productivity and follow-up student services, and that if there were a concentrated outbreak of online users, the prioritization of product prioritization and teacher supply would have to be optimized, so that the likelihood of online business growth would recede after the epidemic subsides.
若大量线上业务转移到线下，能否将课程进行较好的衔接将对培训机构提出一定挑战。
If a great deal of online business is transferred offline, it will be a challenge for the training institutions to connect the courses well.
在国金证券分析师吴劲草看来，大部分培训场景下，线上教育和线下教育并非相互替代，而是一种协同合作的关系，未来需要期待的不是线上教育取代线下教育，而是教育的线上场景和线下场景更好地融合。
In most training scenarios, online and offline education is not a substitute for each other, but a collaborative relationship in which what is expected in the future is not the replacement of offline education with online education, but a better integration of online and offline scenarios in education, according to Ng Jincao, an analyst at Golden State Securities.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情冲击线下培训遇冷，千亿在线教育火爆入场。
Outbreak impact line training cold, 100 billion online education hot admission.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情冲击线下培训遇冷，千亿在线教育火爆入场";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "行业将进行一轮洗牌";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; industry.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
