武汉口罩外售他省惹争议背后。
Wuhan masks sold outside other provinces to provoke controversy behind.
庄梦蕾。
Dreams and dreams.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
国家已出台相应政策鼓励企业增产紧缺物资几经周折，终于拿到了通过微商“团购”的那几盒口罩之后，广西南宁的连钰（化名）反而睡不着觉了。
The State has issued appropriate policies to encourage enterprises to increase production of scarce materials after several twists and turns, finally got through micro-business "group purchase" those boxes of masks, Guangxi Nanning Lianyu (alias) instead of sleep.
她忍不住疑惑，“河南厂家”生产的口罩，为何从武汉发货？为何口罩外包装的箱子上，会写着“救援物资”？2月14日，连钰委托一起通过微商“团购”口罩的朋友，在微博上提出了这些问题之后，引起了关注。
She couldn't help wondering why the masks produced by Henan manufacturers had been shipped from Wuhan. Why were the "rescue materials" written on the boxes on the outside of the masks? On Feb. 14, Lianyu commissioned a friend of the micro-business "group purchase" mask to raise these issues on Weibo.
舆论直指或有人倒卖救援物资。
Public opinion is pointing at or selling relief supplies.
次日，武汉经济技术开发区新闻中心官方微博“认领”了这一事件的解释权，发声明称，经过武汉开发区（汉南区）公安分局调查核实，这批口罩为武汉某防护用品公司生产，并非社会捐助的救援物资。
The next day, the official Weibo news center of Wuhan Economic and Technological Development Zone "claimed" the right to interpret the incident and issued a statement saying that investigation and verification by Wuhan Development Zone (Hanxi) Public Security Bureau showed that the masks were produced by a Wuhan protective equipment company and were not relief materials donated by society.
对于为何在包装写上“救援物资”，并且能够毫无障碍地通过物流管制，将货物运出武汉，该官微声明并未作具体解释。
The statement gave no specific explanation as to why the goods were packed with "rescue materials" and could be shipped out of Wuhan without hindrance through logistics controls.
武汉来的“救援物资”2月2日，包括连钰在内的几十位南宁市民一起“团购”的一次性口罩，终于进入物流流程了。
Wuhan "rescue materials" February 2, including Lianyu dozens of Nanning citizens "group purchase" disposable masks, finally entered the logistics process.
疫情暴发后，跟全国各地一样，南宁医疗防护用品紧俏，许多市民面临“一罩难求”的困境。
After the outbreak, like all over the country, Nanning medical protection supplies are tight, many citizens face the dilemma of "hard to find."
连钰所在的一个团购群里，有人联系到了一位自称能够代购口罩的王姓微商。
Lianyu in a group of group, someone contacted a self-styled can buy a mask Wang micro-business.
团购群的朋友一共向王某购买了100盒口罩，每盒有40个。
Group of friends to buy a total of 100 boxes of masks from Wang Mou, each box of 40.
这4000个口罩一共12800元，还包邮。
These 4000 masks come to $12,800 and are also covered by airmail.
平均一个口罩3.2元，大家都觉得，价格还能接受。
An average of 3.2 yuan for a mask, everyone felt that the price was acceptable.
快递大多停运，不时有人在团购群催问，口罩到哪儿了？而大家的疑惑，也正是从看到物流信息之后开始的。
Express delivery mostly stopped, from time to time someone in the group rush to ask where the mask? And everyone's doubts, also from the logistics of the information began.
2月3日，物流显示“快件在武汉汉南区汉南营业点已装车”。
Feb. 3, the logistics showed that "express mail in Wuhan Hannan business point has been loaded."
也就是说，这批口罩是从武汉发货的。
That is, the masks were shipped from Wuhan.
对此，微商的解释是，“口罩总厂基本都是湖北”。
To this, the explanation that microquotient is, "mask factory is basically Hubei".
作为此次疫情最大重灾区，此前武汉各医院多次传出医疗防护物资告急甚至告罄，民间的口罩缺口也存在多日，每天都有外省市捐赠的口罩运往武汉。
As the worst affected areas, Wuhan hospitals have repeatedly come out of emergency medical supplies even ran out of supplies, folk mask gaps also exist for days, every day donated by the provinces and cities to Wuhan.
并且当时，口罩已经作为“战时物资”，在湖北省内被统一调配，多数口罩生产厂家被政府部门征用，以便第一时间将医用口罩送往一线医护人员手中。
Most of the masks were requisitioned by government departments so that they could be delivered to front-line medical staff as soon as possible.
这样的情况下，为何还有口罩能从武汉发出，并且发往疫情轻微的外省市？口罩发货前，那位王姓微商曾清清楚楚告诉购买者，这批口罩是河南工厂出口日本的产品。
Under such circumstances, why can still mask from Wuhan, and send to the province and province where the epidemic is mild? Before the delivery of the mask, the Wang micro-business clearly told buyers that the masks were exported from Henan factory to Japan.
而本应河南发货的口罩，却在武汉出发，厂家也变成了武汉本地厂家。
Henan should have delivered the mask, but started in Wuhan, manufacturers have become Wuhan local manufacturers.
一周后，这批从武汉发货的口罩到达南宁。
A week later, the consignment arrived in Nanning from Wuhan.
还没等快递员配送，公安部门先联系上了买家。
Before the delivery of couriers, the public security department first contacted the buyers.
理由很简单，疫区过来的口罩，出于安全起见，需要查问清楚。
The reason is simple, the epidemic area came over the mask, for the sake of safety, need to inquire clearly.
几位买家在警方工作人员陪同下前去验货，这时，他们第一次看到装着口罩的外包装箱子上，用黑色水笔写着“救援物资”四个字。
Several buyers, escorted by police staff, first saw the words "relief supplies" written in black ink on the case containing the mask.
这四个字彻底激发了买家们的不安。
These four words thoroughly aroused the uneasiness of the buyers.
买家查看包裹情况，发现箱子上写有“救援物资”四个字。
The buyer looked at the package and found that it had four words written on it: "Rescue material."
图片来源：受访者提供大家让负责采买的小叶继续联系微商，问清口罩来源。
Photo Source: Respondents provided information on how to contact microquotient to find out the source of the mask.
同时，有人通过快递公司了解到，自从武汉封城以后，的确有物流管制。
At the same time, some people through express delivery companies learned that since the closure of Wuhan, there are indeed logistics control.
个人从武汉发往外地的快递，原则上是三公斤及以内。
The personal express sent from Wuhan to other places, in principle, is three kilograms and less.
“这批口罩有两千个共计两箱，发货单显示重量是22公斤，为什么这批口罩可以在这个时期发出来?”这是多数买家最疑惑的问题。
"The two thousand masks came in two boxes and the invoice said they weighed 22 kilos. Why should these masks be issued during this period?" is the most puzzling question for most buyers.
“都是靠关系拿的货”口罩暂时被南宁警方扣押的时候，小叶负责跟微商以及口罩厂家联络，随后在团购群内公示。
When the mask was temporarily seized by Nanning police, Xiao Ye was in charge of contacting the micromarketer and the mask manufacturer before announcing it to the group.
这批口罩的生产厂家——武汉华世达防护用品有限公司的联络人何雄告诉她：这批货没有问题，公安这里已经出示了证明。
The mask manufacturer, He Xiong, a contact person with Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd, told her: There is no problem with the products, the public security here has been shown proof.
不过，小叶至今不清楚这句话的含义。
However, the meaning of the phrase remains unclear.
2月11日，这批武汉口罩的质检有了结果，产品合格，质检部门将这批口罩还给团购的买家们。
On February 11, this batch of Wuhan mask quality control results, qualified, quality control departments will return this batch of masks to the group of buyers.
领回口罩之后，大家疑虑未消。
When the mask was taken back, doubts remained.
连钰和朋友在微博上发文质疑之后，网友敏感地怀疑到，会不会是有人将外地捐赠的救援物资拿来倒卖了？网络上的舆论惊动了口罩生产厂家。
Lianyu and friends on the micro-blog after the query, netizens are sensitive to doubt that someone will not be used to resell the foreign donated relief materials? Public opinion on the network has alarmed the mask manufacturer.
2月15日，何雄给小叶来电，表示“现在网上沸沸扬扬，我们很被动”，并称自己这两天多次被电话骚扰。
On Feb. 15, He Xiong called Xiao Ye, saying that "the Internet is boiling now, we are very passive," and that he has been repeatedly harassed by telephone these two days.
小叶对于微博的事并不知情，她对何雄说，如果你被骚扰了，可以报警。
Leaf did not know about Weibo, she told Ho Xiong, if you were harassed, you can call the police.
“报案有什么用呢？我们武汉是重灾区，现在我们把口罩寄到别的地方去，本来就是众矢之的。
"What is the use of reporting? We are in Wuhan is a serious disaster area, now we send masks to other places, is the target.
”何雄对她说。
'he said to her.
“网友揪着救援物资几个字不放，那几个字肯定是别人写上去的，有人想通过这个来害我们厂。
"The netizen grasps the rescue material a few words not to put, those words are certainly others writes, some people want to harm our factory through this.
”何雄否认口罩外包装箱子上“救援物资”四个字是自己或者厂方所写。
He denied that the words "relief supplies" on the case were written by him or the factory.
但负责收寄这批口罩的快递员与何雄有着不同说法。
But the courier in charge of receiving the masks had a different story from Ho Hsiung.
一周前，这批口罩还在武汉市汉南区。
The masks were in Wuhan city a week ago.
负责那一片区的快递小哥回忆道，那天，写着“救援物资”的大箱子大概有七八十箱。
The delivery boy in charge of the area recalled that the big box with the words "relief supplies" was about seventy or eighty boxes that day.
“一起寄的，字是他们自己写的。
'They sent it together; they wrote it themselves.
”该快递员说。
"said the courier.
王姓微商则表示，就在这批口罩运出武汉的次日，该厂的口罩就“完全发不出来了”，因为“政府的人在那边监管，一出货就运往灾区”。
Wang said the mask was "completely gone" the day after the masks were taken out of Wuhan, because "the government is there to supervise them and deliver them to the disaster area."
此外，该微商还透露，现在他们拿口罩，已经是“一手过一手”，“我不知道我是第几手了，我只知道这是朋友那边出来的货，他也是找的别人拿的。
"I don't know what hand I'm dealing with. All I know is that it's from a friend's side, and he got it from someone else.
直接找厂家，根本不会给你货。
Go straight to the manufacturer and you won't get anything at all.
人家都是靠关系拿的货，出来再高价卖。
People rely on the relationship to take the goods out and then sell at a high price.
”中国人民大学商法研究所所长刘俊海认为，从重灾区大量卖口罩到外省市无论如何是说不过去的，这违反疫情防控时期，物资集中调配、优先供应重灾区和一线的原则。
Liu Junhai, director of the Institute of Commercial Law at Renmin University of China, said selling large quantities of masks from hard-hit areas to provinces and cities was' inexcusable in any way, 'in violation of the principle of concentrating supplies and giving priority to hard-hit areas and frontlines during the epidemic prevention and control period.
“此前大理截胡重庆口罩时为什么让人愤怒，也是因为违反这个原则。
"It was also a violation of this principle that made Dali angry when he cut Chongqing's mask.
”另一方面，他建议武汉乃至湖北尽快摸清口罩的真实供需状况，“究竟整个武汉、湖北需要多少口罩？本地自己能够生产多少口罩？国内外人士捐了多少口罩？如果本地产能足够，那么外地是不是可以不用捐了？”厂家生产之困2月15日，舆论发酵的第二天，武汉经济技术开发区新闻中心官方微博发声明称：“经查，何雄在网上出售的口罩来源于武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，该公司生产出口口罩等防护用品……网友质疑的口罩是武汉华世达防护用品有限公司生产，不是社会捐助的救援物资，该公司已向区公安分局出具了关于何雄于2月1日从该公司提取口罩的情况说明。
On the other hand, he advised Wuhan and Hubei as soon as possible to find out the real demand and supply of masks, "how many masks are needed in Wuhan and Hubei? How many masks can local people produce? How many masks are donated by local and foreign people?
”但是这样的声明被网友认为是避重就轻，不仅没有说明为何箱子上写着“救援物资”，也未解释外售口罩的正当性，质疑声随之而来——“目前口罩生产管控严格，需地方委托授权，而在物资奇缺的湖北省内却有工厂可以开工做微商”“全世界都知道武汉缺口罩，武汉还能往外卖口罩”“如果本地产能充足，为什么还要外地志愿者千里迢迢买同样口罩往湖北寄”……而此次舆论漩涡中心的口罩厂家——武汉华世达防护用品有限公司，此前曾被当做“抗疫”中的先进企业被多家官媒报道。
But the statement was dismissed by netizens as a way to avoid comment on why the boxes contained "rescue materials" and the legitimacy of the masks sold outside. "" Now that the world knows Wuhan lacks sufficient capacity, Wuhan can start selling them to Hubei.
“只要党和政府号召，我们承诺无限期复工生产防护品。
"We promise to return to work indefinitely to produce protective products, if called for by the Party and government.
”该公司总经理何振华接受新华社、光明日报等多家媒体采访时均表示，考虑到当前武汉急需医疗防护产品，公司及全体员工同意延迟休假，开足马力投入生产，直至疫情缓解。
He Zhenhua, general manager of the company, told Xinhua and Guangming Daily that given the urgent need for medical protection products in Wuhan, the company and all its employees agreed to postpone their holidays and start production at full capacity until the outbreak eases.
据此前媒体报道，该公司每天可生产普通医用口罩60万支、N95口罩5000支、高级别防护服2000件。
According to previous media reports, the company can produce 600,000 ordinary medical masks, 5,000 N95 masks and 2,000 high-level protective clothing a day.
而此前，武汉华世达是一家专门做出口防护产品的企业，在国内尚未取得医疗器械生产许可证。
But before, Wuhan Huashida is a specialized export protection products enterprise, in the domestic has not yet obtained the medical device production license.
疫情暴发之后，湖北省市场监管局向该公司紧急核发二类医疗器械生产许可证，准许该企业在国内生产医疗防护品。
Following the outbreak of the outbreak, the Hubei Provincial Market Supervisory Authority issued an emergency license to the company for the production of category II medical devices, allowing the enterprise to produce medical protection products domestically.
有行业内知情人士告诉中国新闻周刊，出于疫情发展的医疗需要，许多制造企业在节假日召回员工需要一定成本，“这时候都是亏本在生产，除了生产成本、员工工资支出，很多生产医疗相关用品、配件的企业都是成本价给到一线，即便这样，这个钱也不知道什么能收回，资金压力很大。
Many manufacturers recall employees on holidays because of the medical needs of the epidemic, telling China News Weekly. "In addition to production costs and staff salaries, many companies producing medical-related supplies and accessories are paying a first-line price.
”该知情人士对某些厂家被征用后、自寻销路的做法表示理解。
The person familiar with the matter understood that some factories were requisitioned to find a market for themselves.
这样的说法，在何雄与买家的沟通中得到相互佐证。
Such a statement, in the communication between Ho Xiong and the buyer is mutually supportive.
他曾表示，企业如果全部供应政府，没有一点外销的话，就会每天处于亏本状态。
He said companies that supply the government with all their supplies and have no exports would lose money on a daily basis.
就此，中国新闻周刊向何雄求证，但未收到回复。
In this regard, China News Weekly asked Ho Xiong for evidence, but did not receive a reply.
此前，已有多家媒体报道过口罩口罩、隔离服等生产企业亏本生产，甚至“生产一个亏一个”。
Previously, there have been a number of media reports mask mask, isolation clothing and other production enterprises at a loss, or even "production of a deficit."
由此，国家也出台了相应的补贴政策。
As a result, the State has introduced a corresponding subsidy policy.
为鼓励企业增产增供应对疫情紧缺物资，2月9日，中国国家发展和改革委员会、财政部以及工业和信息化部通知，疫情防控期间，N95口罩等十类医疗防护产品将由政府兜底采购收储，国家相关部门应帮助企业解决资金、资质、生产场地、设备购置和原材料采购等实际困难。
On February 9, the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Informatization announced that 10 types of medical protection products, such as N95 masks, would be purchased and stored by the government during the epidemic prevention and control period.
至截稿前，武汉华世达防护用品有限公司未对外售口罩的原因作出回应。
Before the deadline, Wuhan Huashida Protective Products Co. Ltd. did not sell the reason for the mask.
但此次事件值得思考之处，或许不仅是那4000个口罩的出处和去处。
But it may be worth thinking about more than where and where the 4,000 masks came from.
“希望通过这个事情，一是督促有关部门能够做好统筹，二是真正满足公众的知情权。
"I hope that through this, one is to urge the relevant departments to do a good job overall, and the other is to truly meet the public's right to know.
”刘俊海说。
"said Liu.
值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼新冠病毒，人类对它的了解只是冰山一角知名研究机构报告：新冠疫情对全球经济影响集中在上半年在家没事赚现金点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
Why don't you tell us why? Why don't you tell us why? Why don't you tell us why? Why don't you tell us why we're doing this? Why don't you tell us about it?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉口罩外售他省惹争议背后。
Wuhan masks sold outside other provinces to provoke controversy behind.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉口罩外售他省惹争议背后";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "国家已出台相应政策，鼓励企业增产紧缺物资";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
title: '新冠病毒，人类对它的了解只是冰山一角',。
New Crown Virus. Human knowledge of it is only the tip of the iceberg.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '知名研究机构报告：新冠疫情对全球经济影响集中在上半年',。
Ritual & amp; apos; s report: & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
