他们写给武汉朋友的信，把我看哭了。
Their letters to Wuhan friends made me cry.
浣浣。
It will be fresh.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
想告诉武汉朋友“一起扛撒！”如果没有这场突如其来、持续多天的疫情，这段时间会像之前的日子，和之后的日子那样，融入混沌的时间流中。
Wants to tell Wuhan friends to "carry Caesar together!" If this sudden, lasting many days of the outbreak did not occur, this period will be like the previous days, and the days after, into the chaotic flow of time.
但疫情来势汹汹，以迅雷不及掩耳之势，改变了你我的生活。
But the epidemic came with a vengeance that changed our lives.
回望过去这段交织着希望与悲伤、鼓励与泪水的日子，很多人对生活都有了新的感悟，更清楚什么才是对自己最重要的。
Looking back at the days of hope and sorrow, encouragement and tears, many people have a new sense of what is most important to them.
微博上有个很火的话题#这次疫情你懂得了什么道理#，周刊君觉得，至少有三件事，值得我们经此一疫后，都不断地深度思考，并指引行动作出改变。
There is a very hot topic on Weibo # What do you know about this epidemic # #? You feel that there are at least three things worth thinking about in depth and guiding our actions to change after the epidemic.
这世上，哪有什么英雄自疫情爆发以来，有太多感动和温暖我们的事。
In this world, there is no hero since the outbreak of the outbreak, there have been too many touched and warm our affairs.
有些人，我们称之为“英雄”以表达我们的敬意。
Some people, we call them heroes, express our respect.
但在家人及朋友的眼中，他们只是普通人，他们的身份可能是爸爸、妈妈、丈夫、妻子，家人或许并不希望他们成为英雄，只愿他们平平安安。
But in the eyes of family and friends, they are just ordinary people. Their identities may be father, mother, husband, wife.
一位丈夫在武汉援建医院的妻子写下了这么一段话——致我援建医院的老公：接到公司建设医院项目的你，断然决定前往。
A husband in Wuhan to help build the wife of the hospital wrote the following words - to help me build the husband of the hospital: received the company to build the hospital project, you resolutely decided to go.
三岁半的女儿每天喊着想爸爸时，我只能说爸爸去帮奥特曼打怪兽了，早点打跑“怪兽”让我们的世界变得更安全。
When my three-and-a-half-year-old daughter cried out for Dad every day, all I could say was that Daddy went to help Altman beat the monster, and beat the monster early to make our world a safer place.
而我只能等你每天晚上十一二点项目结束时短暂通话。
And I can only wait for you to talk briefly at the end of the 1112 project every night.
你说头发每天喷酒精消毒变黄，都不用再染了；你还说结婚戒指也被腐蚀了，得买个新的。
You say you don't have to dye your hair any more if you spray alcohol every day. You also say your wedding ring is corroded and needs a new one.
期待疫情早点过去，期待春暖花开，与君相见！——永远爱你支持你的老婆这位武汉医院的建设者，他是爸爸、丈夫、儿子，但他用他的断然前往告诉我们，总有一些普通人，在做着伟大的事。
Looking forward to the epidemic as soon as possible, looking forward to spring flowers, meet with you! - Always love you support your wife this Wuhan hospital builder, he is a father, husband, son, but he used his decidedly to tell us that there are always ordinary people doing great things.
而有些人，仅仅是因为归属于某一个地方，某一种身份，所以恪守他对于这个地方、这个职业和这个身份所许下的承诺，就像医生关心病人的健康，所以义无反顾，全力以赴。
And some people, just because they belong to a certain place, a certain status, keep their promise of the place, the profession, and this identity, just as the doctor cares for the health of the patient, and therefore goes all out.
就如有人给他在武汉协和的医生朋友写的信中说道：致一位武汉协和的医生朋友：这是你成为医生的第一年，起初，你说你也害怕，后来，我知道你的韧劲上来了！你是为众人抵挡风雪的英雄，但我不喜欢英雄这两个字，它意味着总有人要付出超越本能的牺牲。
As someone wrote to his doctor friend in Wuhan Concorde, he said: This is your first year as a doctor. At first, you said you were afraid, but later, I knew your toughness was coming up!
我希望春天来的时候，我们都能做回快乐平凡的普通人。
I hope that when spring comes, we can all be happy ordinary people.
希望你能平安，武汉能平安，中国能平安。
I hope you can be safe, Wuhan can be safe, China can be safe.
加油！魏医生！——朋友张还有一位妇产科医生的女儿这么写道：致在妇产科工作的医生妈妈：我们都知道，对每一个武汉人来说，这是一个很艰难的时刻。
To the doctors and mothers who work in the obstetrics and gynecology department, we all know that this is a tough time for everyone in Wuhan.
而你依旧要在医院值守，迎接和守护即将降临人世的小天使。
And you still have to be in the hospital, to meet and protect the upcoming angel.
您对我说：“他们的平安到来就是希望，不仅慰藉着每个期盼他们的家庭，更意味着在这被疫情遮掩住的黑暗中，总会出现新生的光明。
You said to me: "Their safe arrival is hope, not only to comfort every family looking forward to them, but also to mean that there will always be a new light in the darkness that is obscured by the epidemic.
“没有一个冬天不能逾越，我和爸爸，等着你归来。
"No winter is insurmountable, Dad and I, waiting for you to return.
——你的女儿佳琪你看，哪有什么白衣天使，他们都不过是一群普通人披上了铠甲去救人。
-- Gigi, your daughter You see, there are no angels in white, they are just a bunch of ordinary people put on armor to save people.
这些感人的留言，来自2月9日伊利牛奶发起的#为一个武汉朋友加油#的活动。
These moving messages, from February 9 Yili Milk launched # for a Wuhan friend refueling activities #.
他们来自各行各业，他们可能想都没想要成为英雄，只是为了心中那个共同的信念——疫情，快点过去吧。
They come from all walks of life, they may not even want to be heroes, just for the common belief in the heart - epidemic, go quickly.
而发起活动的目的，就是希望合力把温暖的爱交付到他们手上，毕竟在武汉坚守的每一个人，都值得让人敬佩。
The purpose of the campaign is to join forces to deliver warm love to them, after all, in Wuhan adhere to everyone, are worthy of admiration.
世界以痛吻我，我要报之以歌还有很多人，他们不是医护人员，也不是专家学者、警察、建设者，无法奔赴一线去作战，他们甚至本来就拥有不多，但依然竭尽全力去温暖别人。
The world kisses me in pain, I send back songs and there are many people who are not medical personnel, experts, police, builders, unable to go to the frontline to fight, even though they do not have much, but try their best to warm others.
有网友在杭州捐赠物资明细上发现，“杭州保姆纵火案”的受害人林爸爸一个人给武汉捐了5000个口罩。
Some netizens in Hangzhou donated materials details found, "Hangzhou Nanny arson case" victim Lin Dad donated 5000 masks to Wuhan.
可这些，他自己只字不提。
But he said nothing of it himself.
汶川县三江镇龙竹村十多位村民，驾着6辆卡车开了整整36小时，将100吨新鲜蔬菜送到武汉。
More than a dozen villagers from Longzhu Village, Sanjiang Town, Wenchuan County, drove six trucks for 36 hours, delivering 100 tons of fresh vegetables to Wuhan.
村民们感念着当年汶川大地震时，当地很多伤员被武汉志愿军们接过去治疗，现在武汉疫情爆发，村民们纷纷拿出自家最好的新鲜蔬菜。
Villagers remember the Wenchuan earthquake, many of the local casualties were taken over by Wuhan volunteers to treat, now Wuhan outbreak, villagers have taken out their best fresh vegetables.
但其实，2017年他们才完成脱贫。
But, in fact, they did not pull out of poverty until 2017.
1月底，浙江湖州一位83岁的拾荒老人来到社区，匿名捐赠了1万元。
At the end of January, an 83-year-old garbage collector from Huzhou, Zhejiang province, came to the community and donated 10,000 yuan anonymously.
大爷的善举被媒体报道后，感动了不少网友。
Grandpa's kindness was reported by the media, touched many netizens.
网友们担心大爷生活困难，号召爱心人士众筹了一万元，送到大爷家中。
The netizens worried about the big man's life difficulty, calls the loving personage to raise ten thousand yuan, sends to the grandpa's home.
可万万没想到的是，林大爷拿着网友凑的一万块善款，转手又捐赠给了社区。
But I never thought of it. Uncle Lin took ten thousand dollars from the netizens and donated them to the community.
谁能想到出手这么大方的大爷，家里84岁老伴瘫痪在床，他平时除了拾荒，还得照顾老伴，日子过得捉襟见肘。
Who can think of such generous hands, 84-year-old wife paralyzed in bed, he is usually in addition to scavenging, but also to take care of his wife, life is overstretched.
但大爷坚定地说：“看电视看得我心里难过，我没有能力帮助国家什么，也没有能力报恩。
But he said firmly, "Watching TV hurts my heart. I have no ability to help my country or repay its kindness.
老太婆支持我捐1万。
The old woman supported me in donating ten thousand.
”“世界以痛吻我，我却报之以歌。
"The world has kissed me with pain, but I have answered with a song.
”同样经历过艰难的岁月，有的人变得愤世嫉俗，有的人却带上了笃信善良美好的光芒，照亮自己，也照亮别人。
Some have been through the hard times too, some have become cynical, while others have taken with them a glow of faith and goodness to brighten themselves and others.
不能身体力行付出，保护好自己就是最大贡献作为普通人，我们自行居家隔离，能做的或许很少，但至少有一点——保护好自己，提升免疫力，亦是支援抗击疫情的有力方式。
As ordinary people, we can do little to isolate ourselves at home, but at least one thing -- protecting ourselves and boosting immunity -- is a powerful way to support the fight against the epidemic.
疫情让我们看到生命脆弱，意外无情，在病毒面前，人不分尊卑贵贱，唯一的区别是，你有没有健康的体魄，你的免疫力够不够强。
In the face of the virus, people have no respect for their inferiority or inferiority. The only difference is whether you are healthy or not, your immunity is not strong enough.
而增强免疫力的方式，无外乎锻炼身体，好好作息，营养饮食，心态良好。
And the way to strengthen immunity, nothing more than physical exercise, good sleep, nutritious diet, good mood.
而这其中，中华医学会肠外肠内营养学分会特别提出了饮食营养对防治肺炎的重要性，并强调了高蛋白类食物的摄入。
Among them, the Chinese Medical Association enteral nutrition credit will specifically raise the importance of dietary nutrition in the prevention and treatment of pneumonia, and stressed the high protein food intake.
动物蛋白比植物蛋白更有利于被人体吸收，牛奶又是动物蛋白中的优选。
Animal protein is better than plant protein to be absorbed by the human body, milk is the best animal protein.
“牛奶中含有100多种对人体有益的物质，营养非常均衡，因此对人体免疫功能具有一定的调节作用。
"Milk contains more than 100 substances that are beneficial to the body and are well balanced in nutrition, so it can regulate the immune function of the body.
”北京协和医院风湿免疫科医师王迁在自己的书中写到，牛奶是提升免疫力的首选食品，有助于增强机体免疫力，抑制有害微生物生长，对维护免疫系统的正常运转有着无可替代的作用。
In his book, Wang Qian, a rheumatic immunologist at Beijing Concorde Hospital, writes that milk is the food of choice to boost immunity, strengthen the body's immunity, inhibit the growth of harmful micro-organisms, and play an irreplaceable role in maintaining the normal functioning of the immune system.
因此，专家建议，在疫情期间，需要补充蛋白质的人最好做到每天一杯牛奶，守卫我们的免疫力。
Therefore, experts suggest that during the outbreak, people who need protein supplements are best placed to guard our immunity with a glass of milk a day.
伊利纯牛奶，富含优蛋白助力修复人体组织，补充钙质维持骨骼坚固，为所有人的健康提供营养支持。
Erie pure milk, rich in protein-rich repair of human tissue, calcium supplements to maintain bones strong, nutritional support for the health of all.
加缪在《鼠疫》中说，一个人能在疫情和生活的赌博中所赢得的全部东西，就是知识和回忆，不要忘记它。
In Plague, Camus said that all one can win in the epidemic and the gamble of life is knowledge and memory. Don't forget it.
这些疫情告诉我们的道理，相信我们会在当下深深思考仔细琢磨，并指导“生活方式2.0版本”的上线。
These outbreaks tell us the truth, and I believe we will think deeply about it in the present moment and guide the "Lifestyle 2.0" roll-out.
也相信只要我们每个人各尽所长，齐心合力，春天总会到来。
Also believe that as long as we each do our best and work together, spring will come.
虽然购买牛奶的渠道有很多种，但特殊时期，宅在家才是正确的选择，上美团外卖搜索#伊利牛奶#即可无接触送达！本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场。
Although there are many ways to buy milk, but special times, the right home is the right choice, the United States package take-out search # Elie milk # # can be delivered without contact!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们写给武汉朋友的信，把我看哭了。
Their letters to Wuhan friends made me cry.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们写给武汉朋友的信，把我看哭了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "想告诉武汉朋友“一起扛撒！”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
