3711人被海上隔离，“钻石公主号”遭遇了什么？。
3711 people isolated at sea. What happened to the Princess Diamond?
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）壹2月14日，情人节。
Author: Guo Ruyi Source: Business Personality (ID: biz-leaders) February 14, Valentine's Day.
这是Yardley Wong在“钻石公主号”上隔离的第十天。
It was the tenth day Yardley Wong was quarantined aboard the Princess Diamond.
前一天傍晚，她预定了一瓶红酒由船员送到房间，然后在推特上发了一条鼓劲的状态。
The previous evening, she ordered a bottle of red wine to be delivered to her room by the crew, and tweeted it with a bit of energy.
她没料到会在一艘邮轮上度过这一天。
She didn't expect to spend the day on a cruise ship.
按照原计划，在2月4日于日本横滨港靠岸之后，自己和家人的海上之旅就该结束。
It was scheduled to end the voyage by sea for himself and his family when they docked at Yokohama, Japan, on February 4.
但十天过去，他们仍然只能呆在狭小的舱房里，焦虑地接受隔离。
But ten days later, they were still confined to a cramped cabin, and were kept in quarantine anxiously.
长达290米的“钻石公主号”停靠在横滨港大黑埠码头。
The 290-metre-long "Princess Diamond" docked at the docks of the port of Yokohama.
船上的2666名乘客和1045名船员，除少数被确诊感染新冠病毒的人员下船接受治疗之外，多数人不被允许踏上近在咫尺的土地。
Most of the 2, 666 passengers and 1 045 crew members, with the exception of a small number of those diagnosed with the new crown virus, were not allowed to set foot near the shore.
理论上要到2月19日，他们中的健康者才能重获自由。
In theory, by February 19, the healthy among them will be free again.
截至2月13日，“钻石公主号”上的确诊患者达到218名，数天前还穿梭在太平洋上的“五星级酒店”，已成为中国大陆之外最大的病毒爆发地。
As of February 13, 218 people had been diagnosed on board the Princess Diamond, and a few days earlier she had traveled to five-star hotels in the Pacific Ocean, making it the largest outbreak outside mainland China.
登船之初，兴致勃勃参加这次16天漫长航行的数千游客，如今陷入了一座漂浮的“海上监狱”。
Thousands of tourists who were enthusiastic about the long 16-day voyage when they boarded the ship are now trapped in a floating "sea jail."
YardleyWong的父母在13日接受了病毒检测。
Yardley Wong's parents were tested for the virus on the 13th.
“希望他们没有被感染，我宁愿他们去其他地方接受隔离（也不要在船上），即使我们要分开一段时间”。
"I hope they're not infected. I'd rather they're quarantined somewhere else (and not on board), even if we're going to be apart for a while."
她说。
'she said.
14日一早，日籍乘客加藤在社交媒体上晒出了一份早餐，包括烤肠、面包、香蕉和一小碗汤。
Early Sunday morning, Japanese passenger Kato made a breakfast of sausages, bread, bananas and a small bowl of soup on social media.
没多久，船上响起了例行广播，内容是日本官方关于疫情的最新表态。
Soon after, a regular broadcast began, announcing Japan's latest official position on the outbreak.
加藤把这些都发在了推特上——这已经是他隔离以来的固定动作，通过零零星星的信息，外界在不断拼凑着船上正在发生的一切。
Kato tweeted it all - a fixture of his isolation, with bits and pieces of information piecing together what was going on on board.
“这艘船看起来像个迷路的孩子”，他有点无奈地说。
"The boat looks like a lost child," he said helplessly.
“商业人物”在2月11日联系到他时，当时船上确诊人数已达135人，不安的情绪正在四处蔓延。
By the time he was contacted on February 11, 135 people had been confirmed on board, and unease was spreading.
加藤是1月20日从横滨港登船。
Kato boarded the ship from Yokohama on January 20th.
上船三天后，他发出第一条推特，期待着这场豪华的海上派对。
Three days after boarding the boat, he sent out his first tweet, looking forward to the extravagant sea party.
当时邮轮刚刚经过日本九州最南端的鹿儿岛，在翻滚的海浪中缓缓驶向香港。
The ship had just passed Kagoshima, the southernmost point of Kyushu, Japan, and was slowly sailing through the rolling waves to Hong Kong.
那几天，整条船上到处是欢声笑语。
The whole ship was full of laughter those days.
乘客们在甲板上惬意地晒着太阳，在位于顶层的淡水泳池里嬉闹，赌场里也人声鼎沸。
Passengers bask in the sun on deck, frolicking in the top-level freshwater pool and roaring casinos.
夜幕降临，可容纳七百人的公主剧院里表演起歌舞秀，巨大的露天屏幕上放映着电影。
As night falls, the 700-strong Princess Theater performs a song and dance show, with films projected on huge outdoor screens.
服务生则微笑地穿梭在人群当中。
The waiter smiled and shuttled through the crowd.
几乎满载的“钻石公主号”，就这样在浑然不觉中继续着航程。
The "Princess of Diamonds," which was almost full, thus continued her voyage without being conscious of it.
贰“钻石公主号”隶属于全球最大度假公司嘉年华集团的邮轮品牌旗下，总部位于美国加州。
The Princess of Diamonds is part of the cruise brand of Carnival, the world's largest holiday company, headquartered in California.
这艘邮轮甲板楼层18层，平均航速22节（约40公里每小时）。
The 18-storey deck has an average speed of 22 knots (about 40 kilometers per hour).
船上拥有七种不同房型，面积在14㎡-87㎡之间。
There were seven different types of rooms on board, with an area of between 14 and 87 square metres.
此外还遍布华丽的生活娱乐设施，包括各式餐厅、大型日式汤浴、剧院和赌场等。
In addition, there are many luxurious living and entertainment facilities, including restaurants, large Japanese soup baths, theatres and casinos.
原本这是一次令人期待的“初春东南亚大航行”，具体航程是1月20日从日本横滨港出发，经鹿儿岛、香港、越南、台湾基隆、日本冲绳，最后返回横滨。
The voyage was originally expected to take place on January 20th from Yokohama, Japan, via Kagoshima, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Keelung, Taiwan, and Okinawa, Japan, before returning to Yokohama.
全程共15晚16天。
The journey lasted 15 nights and 16 days.
乘客们来自50多个国家和地区（其中约一半为日本人），单人费用约1.6万元-8.2万元不等。
Passengers came from more than 50 countries and territories (about half of them Japanese), with one-person costs ranging from $16,000 to $82,000.
据中国驻日本大使馆透露，船上有中国乘客311名，包括22名内地乘客、260名香港乘客、5名澳门乘客和24名台湾乘客，另有20名中国船员。
According to the Chinese Embassy in Japan, there were 311 Chinese passengers on board, including 22 mainland passengers, 260 Hong Kong passengers, 5 Macao passengers and 24 Taiwan passengers, as well as 20 Chinese crew members.
来自台北的魔术师陈日昇是应邀上船，在旅途中表演现场魔术。
The magician Sun Chen from Taipei was invited to board the ship and perform live magic on the trip.
他在台湾人气颇高，出发前还在insgram上回复粉丝说，要去邮轮上表演九天。
He was popular in Taiwan and responded to fans on insgram with a nine-day show on a cruise.
考虑到当时多地已有疫情，陈日昇出发时特意带了很多口罩。
Chen Sun-sun purposely carried many face masks when he set out, given the epidemic that had gripped much of the area.
从横滨港上船的，还有一位80岁的香港老者。
An 80-year-old Hong Kong veteran was also aboard the ship from Yokohama.
为了参加这次航程，他和家人特地提前从香港飞到日本，然后顺利在20日登上邮轮。
In order to participate in the voyage, he and his family flew ahead of time from Hong Kong to Japan, and then successfully boarded the cruise on the 20th.
而在此前一天，这位老者已经开始咳嗽，但当时无人在意。
The old man had started coughing the day before, but no one had cared.
等到船上一切就绪，“钻石公主号”便准时离港出发了。
When the ship was ready, the Princess Diamond left port on time.
加藤在邮轮抵达越南下龙湾时发了第二条推特。
Kato posted a second tweet when the liner arrived in Ha Long Bay, Vietnam.
靠港之后，乘客们纷纷上岸，在当地进行游玩。
When they arrived in the harbour, the passengers came ashore to play in the area.
然后邮轮掉头折返，朝基隆一路驶去。
Then the ship turned around and headed for Keelung.
1月30日，到达基隆港的前一晚，陈日昇在公主剧场完成一场魔术表演，现场掌声阵阵。
On January 30, the night before his arrival at Keelung Port, Chen Sun Sun completed a magic show at the Princess Theater, where applause broke out.
按照航程，2月1日邮轮将抵达冲绳，陈日昇满心期待能吃上一顿当地的烤肉。
By voyage, the ship will arrive in Okinawa on February 1, and Chen Sun-sun is eager to have a local barbecue.
据冲绳县首府那霸市官员后来统计，2月1日当天共有13名乘客下船却未返回，其中几名乘客随后还离开了日本。
A total of 13 passengers disembarked on February 1 but did not return, several of whom subsequently left Japan, Okinawa Prefecture capital, officials said later.
据《纽约时报》报道，那霸当地政府称没有这些乘客的详细信息，也无法追踪他们的活动路线。
According to The New York Times, the local government said it had no details of the passengers and was unable to track their movements.
而其他下船游玩的乘客，直到船上疫情发酵之后，那霸市才匆忙调查他们的行动轨迹。
The rest of the disembarking passengers did not rush to investigate their tracks until after the ship's outbreak had subsided.
加藤也提前在冲绳租好了车。
Kato also rented cars in Okinawa ahead of schedule.
但他没想到的是，船上那位香港老者已于1月25日到香港后下船，并在2月1日确诊感染新冠病毒。
But to his surprise, the Hong Kong veteran on board arrived in Hong Kong on January 25 and was confirmed to be infected with the New Crown virus on February 1.
老者在船上度过了六天时间，在他下船之后，“钻石公主号”继续沿着既定航线航行，毫无察觉。
The old man spent six days on board, and when he disembarked, the Princess Diamond continued her course unobserved.
2月3日下午，在驶离冲绳返回横滨的途中，船上举行了一场卡拉OK比赛。
On the afternoon of February 3, on the way back to Yokohama from Okinawa, a karaoke contest was held on board.
这是个很受乘客们欢迎的项目。
This is a very popular program for passengers.
与过去几天一样，很多人仍然在四处闲逛。
As in the past few days, many people are still wandering around.
加藤那天还去了一次赌场，他在推特上调侃，“我还赢了一把”。
Kato also went to a casino the other day, joking on Twitter, "I also won one."
意外的是，日本政府在3日突然要求邮轮提前返航。
Unexpectedly, the Japanese government on the 3rd suddenly asked the cruise ship to return early.
加藤回忆，船上广播称将于当晚8点回到横滨，这比原计划提前十个小时。
Kato recalled the ship's announcement that it would return to Yokohama at 8pm, 10 hours ahead of schedule.
邮轮上的欢乐气氛开始变化，没有人预料到，一场大隔离马上来临。
The euphoria on the cruise ship began to change, and no one expected that a great separation was imminent.
叁从“钻石公主号”套房的阳台上远眺，可以看到横滨一座漂亮的吊桥。
From the balcony of the Princess Diamond Suite, you can see a beautiful suspension bridge in Yokohama.
近处的码头上，停着各式救护车辆，检疫人员一片忙碌。
Nearby on the dock, parked all kinds of ambulance vehicles, quarantine personnel are busy.
船上停止了所有娱乐活动。
All recreational activities were suspended from the ship.
乘客被要求尽量待在客舱内，一日三餐由船员送到门口。
Passengers are requested to stay in the cabin as much as possible, with three meals delivered to the door by crew members.
这让Yardley Wong感到“震惊和害怕”。
This made Yardley Wong "shocked and frightened."
隔离第一天，她一口气发了15条推特，抱怨船舱里太无聊、房间不够清洁、食物不能及时送到。
On the first day of isolation, she posted 15 tweets complaining about the cabin boredom, the lack of cleanliness and the delay in getting food.
加藤起初也难以入睡，作为社交媒体上的活跃分子，一时间各地媒体的采访请求纷纷向他涌来。
Kato also had trouble falling asleep at first, and as a social media activist, he was bombarded with requests for interviews by media outlets everywhere.
他不断地向外界描述看到的情况。
He kept describing to the outside world what he had seen.
在船上的2666名乘客中，60岁或以上的有2144人，其中80多岁的有215人，90多岁的有11人。
Of the 2,666 passengers on board, 2,144 were aged 60 or over, 215 in their 80s and 11 in their 90s.
这是一个庞大的“老年团”。
This is a huge "senior regiment."
抵抗力较弱，以及很多人日常药物的短缺，成为“钻石公主号”上的一大隐患。
Weak resistance, and a shortage of medicines for many people on a daily basis, has become a major concern on the Diamond Princess.
短短几天内，确诊感染的人数就迅速增加。
In a matter of days, the number of people diagnosed with infections increases rapidly.
目前邮轮上的网络已免费开放，并增设了舱房视频点播系统。
The network on the cruise ship is now free of charge and a cabin video on demand system has been added.
为了缓解紧张情绪，船方还开通了免费心理咨询电话，以便乘客随时咨询。
In order to ease tension, the ship also opened a free psychological counseling telephone so that passengers can consult at any time.
此外，内舱和非阳台客舱的乘客获准轮流到甲板“放风”，每次约一个小时。
In addition, passengers in cabin and non-balcony cabins are allowed to take turns on deck for about an hour at a time.
按照日本厚生劳动省的最新安排，从2月14日起，检测结果为阴性且有其他基础病的80岁以上高龄乘客可以提前下船，并在政府指定住处继续隔离至19日。
According to the latest arrangement of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, from February 14, senior passengers over 80 years of age who test negative and have other basic diseases can disembark early and remain isolated in government-designated accommodation until February 19.
但船上的忧虑仍在加剧。
But the ship's anxieties continue to mount.
由于检测能力所限，对船上全员进行病毒检测困难重重。
Due to the limited detection capability, it is difficult to carry out virus detection for all on board.
另据日本《感染症法》相关规定，不能对没有症状的人员进行强制隔离。
Also, under the Infection Act of Japan, persons without symptoms cannot be subjected to forced isolation.
让乘客们呆在自己房间，也只能停留在要求层面。
Let the passengers stay in their own room, can only stay at the level of requirements.
糟糕的是船员中间已出现感染。
Sadly, infection has developed among the crew.
据一位印度籍员工向CNN透露，船员没有像乘客一样的私人房间，他们住在甲板下的内舱室，4人共用一间卫生间。
The crew has no private room like a passenger, they live in the cabin below the deck and share a bathroom with four people, an Indian employee told CNN.
那些负责向疑似患者送饭的船员，也是和其他人一起吃饭，彼此之间没有很好分隔。
Seafarers who deliver food to suspected sufferers also eat with other people and are not well separated from each other.
显然，船员们同样面临着很高的风险。
Clearly, the crew is also at high risk.
“希望能在圣诞节前回家”，一位英国乘客在Facebook上调侃道。
"Hope to get home before Christmas," one British passenger joked on Facebook.
一对来自美国加州的律师夫妇感慨，“终于理解了动物园里的动物，就像现在每天等着有人敲门，把食物送过来。
A California lawyer and his wife lament that "they finally understand the animals in the zoo, just like they are waiting for someone to knock on the door every day to bring food.
”情人节前一天，在海上漂泊了两周的美国荷美邮轮公司的“威士特丹号”，终于获准停靠柬埔寨港口。
One day before Valentine's Day, Rotterdam, a US cruise company that had been adrift for two weeks, was finally allowed to call at a Cambodian port.
尽管船上并未有感染病例，但此前它仍遭到多国拒绝入港。
Although there were no cases of infection on board, it had previously been denied access to multiple countries.
登岸前夜，乘客和船员在船上跳舞庆祝。
On the eve of landing, passengers and crew danced in the ship to celebrate.
一位乘客在社交媒体上发帖，“都不敢相信能够睡在干燥的陆地上。
"I can't believe I can sleep on dry land," one passenger posted on social media.
”而“钻石公主号”仍然要在未知中等待。
"And the Princess of Diamonds is still waiting in the unknown.
他们面临严重得多的局面。
They face a much more serious situation.
最近，陈日昇通过船上的电视系统又表演了一次纸牌魔术。
Chen Sun recently played another card trick via the ship's television system.
他和Yardley Wong在推特上互相留言鼓励，希望早日渡过难关。
He and Yardley Wong posted messages on Twitter encouraging them to get over the ordeal.
（除陈日昇外，文中人物均为化名）推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
Sun Chen Sun, in addition to the characters are aliases) read the solemn declaration: "Business people" all original articles, reprint must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
3711人被海上隔离，“钻石公主号”遭遇了什么？。
3711 people isolated at sea. What happened to the Princess Diamond?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "3711人被海上隔离，“钻石公主号”遭遇了什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 3711 people isolated at sea. What happened to Princess Diamond?;
var msg_desc = "隔离仍在继续，“钻石公主号”前途未卜。
var msg _ desc = & quot; segregation continues; the future of the Princess Diamond remains uncertain.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉喜剧团老板的自白：我只能撑到5月份',。
A confession from Wuhan Hsi's boss: I can only last at & quot; May & apos; .& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '俞敏洪的13篇疫情日记：李文亮去世，痛哭半小时',。
Li Wenliang has died and has cried at least half an hour and a half.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '治愈者口述：全家染病，我也跟病毒抗争了20天',。
Healer oral: The whole family was sick, and I fought with the virus for twenty days or so.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
