父亲被隔离 6 天后，疫情阴影下的残障少年之死。
Six days after his father was quarantined, the crippled teenager in the shadow of the outbreak died.
郑宇钧。
Zheng Yujun.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
鄢小文放弃了对大儿子的尸检。
Yan Xiaowen abandons the autopsy of his eldest son.
2 月 1 日晚，红安县政府让鄢小文写一份同意调解书，放弃尸检，他签了，没跟家长们和援助者商量。
On the night of February 1, Yan Xiao Wen was asked by the government of Hongan County to write a consent letter giving up the autopsy.
朱文沁不解。
Zhu Wenqin puzzled.
鄢小文说，他感觉到孩子在告诉他，活得那么痛苦，受了这么多的苦，不愿意死了还来个尸检。
Yan Xiaowen says he feels the child is telling him to live so bitterly and suffer so much that he doesn't want to die and have an autopsy.
朱文沁说，（鄢成不会说话）谁跟你说鄢成不愿意了？鄢小文说，你不懂我的意思。
"Yan Cheng can't talk." Who told you Yansheng refused? "Yan Xiaowen said." You don't understand me. "
……——鄢小文和两个儿子黄冈，是继武汉之后，全国确诊新型冠状病毒患者数第二多的城市。
"--Yan Xiaowen and her two sons, Huang Gang, are the second-most-diagnosed coronavirus in China after Wuhan.
截止 2020 年 2 月 5 日 19 时 20 分，黄冈确诊病例 1645 例，从武汉回黄冈过年的鄢小文，就是其中之一。
By 1920 hours on February 5, 2020, there were 1,645 confirmed cases in Huanggang, one of which was Yan Xiaowen, who returned to Huanggang from Wuhan to celebrate the New Year.
新冠病毒，把这位父亲送进了隔离病房，此后，他再也没离开过，大儿子鄢成被独自留家。
The New Crown Virus sent the father to the isolation ward, and he never left it again. Yancheng, his eldest son, was left alone.
无论是大儿子病危、死亡、遗体告别，他想见大儿子最后一面的愿望，终究不能实现。
Whether the eldest son dying, dead, dead body farewell, he would like to see the eldest son the last wish, after all, can not be realized.
十年前，小儿子被确诊为自闭症后，鄢小文之妻跳水库自杀。
Ten years ago, Yan Xiaowen's wife committed suicide by jumping into a reservoir after her youngest son was diagnosed with autism.
独留这位父亲与两个儿子相依为命。
The father was left alone with his two sons.
11 岁的小儿子鄢宏伟患中度自闭症，16 岁的大儿子鄢成患重度脑瘫，四肢瘫痪、大小便失禁、三餐均得靠喂食。
The 11-year-old has moderate autism in his youngest son, while 16-year-old Yansheng Yansheng suffers from severe cerebral palsy, quadriplegia, incontinence, and feeding for all meals.
在与大儿子分隔 7 天后，困于病榻的鄢小文，等来的不是相聚，而是鄢成的死讯。
Seven days after her separation from her eldest son, Yan Xiao-wen, stranded by her bed, waited not for a meeting but for the death of Yan Cheng.
这一天，是 1 月 29 日，同日，鄢小文被确诊为新冠病毒肺炎患者。
On the same day, January 29, Yan Xiaowen was diagnosed with New Crown Virus pneumonia.
鄢成的死因，官方还在调查中。
The cause of death by Yan Cheng is still under official investigation.
1 月 26 日晚 22 时对鄢成所作的血检报告单显示，指标无异常。
The blood test report form, made at 22: 00 p.m. on January 26, showed no abnormalities.
据「偶尔治愈」从华家河镇民政办张建主任处获得的官方内部报告显示，1 月 28 日晚 21 时，「鄢成状态尚可」。
According to an official internal report obtained from the Director of the District Office of Hua Jiahe Township, Zhang Jian, "Occasionally cured," Yan Cheng was "in good condition" at 2100 hours on January 28.
少年死讯传出后第三天，1 月 31 日，红安县政府发布消息，调查组查明，鄢小文因隔离不能照料鄢成，遂委托其亲属、村干部和村医照顾，他们对鄢成虽每日均有照料，但有关干部没有做到尽心尽力、尽职尽责。
On January 31, a day after the news of the boy's death, the government of Hongan County announced that Yan Xiaowen, unable to care for Yan Cheng because of isolation, entrusted his relatives, village officials and village doctors with the care of Yan Cheng on a daily basis.
免去汪宝权华家河镇党委书记职务；提名免去彭志鸿华家河镇长职务。
Wang Bao Guanghua River Town party secretary position; nominated to remove Pang Zhihong Huajiahe mayor position.
当天，黄冈市纪委监委处理处分 135 人。
On the same day, the Huanggang City Disciplinary Committee handled 135 disciplinary sanctions.
2 月 2 日，湖北省纪委监委通报称，县纪委已对两人予以纪律、监察立案……行政体系中的问责风暴还在呼啸，政府和鄢小文的博弈还在继续。
On February 2, the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province reported that discipline and supervision had been taken against the two men by the county disciplinary committee... The storm of accountability in the administrative system was still roaring, and the game between the government and Yan Xiaowen continued.
截止发稿，鄢成的遗体还停在殡仪馆，带着他骨折 10 个月、已不可能愈合的创伤。
By the end of the manuscript, Yan Cheng's body was still at the funeral home, carrying his 10-month-old broken bone, an incurable wound.
鄢小文希望向医院调取大儿子的病历、医疗记录、死亡证明的要求，至今没有实现。
Yan Xiaowen's request to seek medical records, medical records and death certificates from the hospital has not yet materialized.
唯一的好消息是，历经争取，2 月 4 日早 9 时，在隔离病房与父亲挤一张床挤了 13 天后，无感染症状的鄢宏伟，被送到另一处单独隔离。
The only good news is that, after 13 days of squeezing together with my father in the isolation ward at 9 a.m. on February 4, the uninfected Visayas were transported to another location in solitary confinement.
「鄢爸很讲究的」1 月 17 日，小年夜，朱文沁目送鄢家父子三人离开她在武汉市汉口区的家，坐客车回 94 公里外的红安县。
"Pa Yan Da is fastidious" On January 17, Yan Yan saw Yan's father and son leave their home in Hankou District, Wuhan City, and take a bus back to Hongan County, 94 kilometers away.
鄢小文当天拍摄的视频显示，弟弟推着哥哥的轮椅走进武汉新荣客运站，街上行人无一戴口罩。
Yan Xiaowen's brother pushed his brother into a wheelchair into Wuhan Xinrong Passenger Terminal, where no one wore a mask, according to a video filmed that day.
根据武汉市卫健委通报， 1 月 3 日至 16 日未发现新发病例，武汉市累计报告病例为 41 例。
No new cases were found between January 3 and 16, with 41 cases reported in Wuhan, according to Wuhan Health Commission.
朱文沁是「蜗牛家园」的创始人，这是个自发的心智障碍类特殊人士的互助小组，就设在她面积 100 平米左右的家里，孩子们常常在客厅做游戏、打非洲鼓、蹦蹦跳跳。
Zhu Wenqin is the founder of "Snail Home," a self-help group of people with special mental disorders. The group is located in her 100-square-metre home, where children often play games, play African drums and bounce in the living room.
这儿位于汉口市区中心，靠近长江，与华南海鲜市场仅 10 分钟车程——那是新冠疫情的风暴口。
Located in the heart of Hankou City, near the Yangtze River, it's only 10 minutes' drive from the South China seafood market - a storm hole in the new crown.
为了互相照看孩子，三家人一同住在「蜗牛家园」。
In order to look after each other's children, three people live together in the "snail's home."
墙被打通后，主卧阳台放了一张上下铺，鄢家父子就睡在这。
After the walls were broken, a lower and upper berth was placed on the main balcony, where the Yan fathers and sons slept.
2018 年 10 月，鄢小文加入这，成为骨干家长，让两个儿子不再颠沛租房，过上了一段稳定的生活。
In October 2018, Yan Xiaowen joined the family as the backbone of her family, freeing her two sons from renting heavily and leading a stable life.
2019 年 12 月 29 日，晚餐。
Dinner, 29 December 2019.
菜是中午别人请客鄢小文打包的，饭是现煮的红薯饭。
The food is served at noon and is packaged by Yan Xiaowen. It is cooked as sweet potato rice.
两个儿子的户口随他，还在红安县鄢家村，但一直在武汉长大。
The two sons' hukou followed him, still in the Visayas village, but had been growing up in Wuhan.
漂在武汉，鄢小文主要是为了小儿子。
Floating in Wuhan, Yan Xiaowen is mainly for her youngest son.
鄢宏伟在一家特殊教育学校上小学四年级，和朱文沁的儿子是同学。
Visayas grand in a special education school in the fourth grade of primary school, and Zhuwenqin's son is a classmate.
武汉康复和医疗资源丰富，有各类教育活动，家长之间也能更密切的帮扶。
Wuhan is rich in rehabilitation and medical resources, there are various educational activities, parents can also help each other more closely.
这在红安县，是稀缺的。
This is rare in Hongan County.
2018 年 8 月，红安县脱贫摘帽，退出国家贫困县。
August 2018, Hongan County poverty eradication off the hat, out of the country's poor counties.
鄢小文想让儿子活得比他好。
Yan Xiaowen wants her son to live better than he does.
2 月 1 日 16 时，在考虑跟官方提出的要求时，他曾把自己的四点要求错手发到了「偶尔治愈」所在的沟通群。
At 1600 hours on 1 February, when considering his request with the authorities, he had sent his four-point request to the "occasionally cured" communication group.
随后，他解释，其它诉求暂不公开，撤销第三点要求：「将我和鄢宏伟的户口转到武汉，让小儿子在武汉继续接受学习、康复。
Subsequently, he explained that the other claims were held in camera and that the third requirement was withdrawn: "Transfer my grand account with the Visayas to Wuhan so that my younger son can continue his studies and rehabilitation in Wuhan.
」朱文沁和鄢小文相识已 9 年。
"Zhu Wenqin and Yan Xiaowen have known each other for nine years.
2011 年初夏，两家孩子同在一家康复机构，朱文沁注意到，课后，鄢小文都会给孩子带来酸奶和点心。
In the early summer of 2011, two children were in a rehabilitation institution, and Yan Xiao Wen brought yogurt and snacks to their children after class.
那时，鄢小文在武汉一家中学食堂当厨师，舍得花钱。
At that time, Yan Xiaowen worked as a cook in a Wuhan middle school canteen, spending money.
小儿子被诊断为自闭症后，鄢小文辞职，专门带孩子。
After her youngest son was diagnosed with autism, Yan Xiaowen resigned, taking care of her children.
他再也没有全职工作，2016 年，他被民政部门纳入低保，当年享受低保 10503 元，2017 年 9974 元，2018 年 9660 元，2019 年 11527 元。
He no longer has a full-time job, and in 2016, he was included in the minimum wage by the civil administration, receiving a minimum of 10,503 yuan in that year, 9974 yuan in 2017, 9,660 yuan in 2018 and 11,527 yuan in 2019.
靠着三位数的低保，他当时在汉口的一处将拆迁的城中村，租了间隔板房，房租三百多元。
Relying on the three-digit low-income Bao, he was in a Hankou village to be demolished, rented spaced rooms, rent more than 300 yuan.
朱文沁和鄢小文断了几年联系，到 2016 年重逢时，朱文沁感觉「这个父亲老了很多，头都快秃了」，经济情况的拮据也体现出来，一年到头，大多喂孩子的是温开水，「出外从没见他买过水」。
Zhu Wenqin and Yan Xiao Wen broke ties for several years. When they met again in 2016, he felt "the father is much older and his head is bald."
鄢小文深爱两个儿子，总是等喂完儿子吃饭，他才最后吃冷饭。
Yan Xiaowen loves his two sons and always waits for his son to eat before he finishes his cold meal.
鄢成久卧在床，汗水和头部分泌物较多，大小便失禁，可他身上从没有褥疮，从没有一点尿骚味。
Yancheng lay in bed with plenty of sweat and secretions from his head, incontinent in urine and urine, but he never had bedsores and never stinked of urine.
「鄢爸很讲究的」，朱文沁说，因为纸尿裤会捂着孩子，会长疮，鄢小文在家都不让孩子穿纸尿裤。
"Fanny Dad is fastidious," says Zhu Wenqin, because diapers cover children, sores grow, and Yan Xiaowen prevents kids from wearing diapers at home.
鄢成会在床上扭来扭去，乱抓乱蹬，尿床是常有的事。
Yan Cheng twists and turns in bed, scratching and tumbling about, as is often the case with bed wetting.
漏了就洗，鄢小文每天至少洗一次床单，换一次枕巾。
Falling out, Yan Xiaowen washes the sheets at least once a day and changes her pillow.
每天晚上，当小儿子睡着之后，鄢小文会给鄢成刷牙、接大便，一根根掰开他的手指、脚趾擦洗，一弄就是个把小时。
Each night, when her youngest son falls asleep, Yan Yan Yan brushes her teeth and picks up her stool. Fingers and toes are rubbed apart one by one for an hour.
接大便有时需要等，鄢小文不用开塞露，就这么慢慢的等。
Sometimes it takes time to take a stool. Yan Xiaowen doesn't need to open her mouth. Just wait.
2019 年 4 月，鄢成骨折，整个夏天都打着石膏，常常尿到石膏上，而石膏又不易更换，「可他很擅长护理，孩子从来都是干干净净的」，朱文沁说。
Fractured in April 2019, Yan Cheng Yan spent the summer in plaster, often dipping into gypsum, which is not easily replaced. "But he is very good at nursing and the kids are always clean," says Zhu.
两个儿子里，弟弟鄢小伟会穿衣服、吃饭、上厕所，但他不能独立出门、与人沟通有障碍、叫他他不搭理你。
Of the two sons, Yanwei Yan can dress, eat and go to the toilet, but he can't go out alone, communicate with people in a way that makes him ignore you.
哥哥鄢成在情感上比弟弟好，懂得配合，特别爱笑，笑起来特别甜，「是所有孩子中最会笑的」，只要来人，就乐得不得了，鄢成叫啊、笑啊，见到相熟的女性就喊「妈妈」。
Brother Yan Cheng is better than her brother in emotional terms, knows how to coordinate with others, loves to laugh, and laughs especially sweetly. "He is the most Laughing of all children." Yan Cheng calls out "Mommy" when she meets a girl she knows.
边缘人群的艰难「武漂」在「蜗牛家园」，孩子们学习穿衣服、洗衣服、扫地、买菜、择菜，学的都是「我们老了之后，孩子怎么活下去」的本领，朱文沁说，她的孩子患有脑瘫。
Children learn how to dress, wash clothes, sweep the floor, buy vegetables, choose vegetables and learn how to live when we are old, according to Zhuwenqin, whose children are suffering from cerebral palsy.
鄢小文被其他家长尊称为「鄢老师」，这是文化程度不高的他，此前从不曾有过的称呼，他很认同这个身份。
Yan Xiaowen is known by other parents as the Visayas Teacher, a poorly educated person who has never been called before and who greatly appreciates his status.
他带孩子们户外活动，去附近的青少年宫踢足球，去宝岛公园蹲起跑，在楼下做操、跳跃、越障、仰卧起坐。
He took the children out to play football in the nearby Youth Palace, to squat in Treasure Island Park and to do exercises, jumps, break barriers and sit-ups downstairs.
「因为病情，孩子们不一定站得稳，喊口令有时也没反应，可鄢爸从来不急不恼。
"Because of their illness, the children do not always stand firm and sometimes do not respond to calls, but Fanny Yan never feels angry.
」朱文沁说，鄢爸还喜欢给孩子们讲绘本故事。
"Yan father Yan also likes to tell children picture stories," he said.
「鄢爸在这从没领过工资。
"Fanny dad was never paid here.
这两年他付出了很多，我很愧对他。
He has done a lot these two years, and I am ashamed of him.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
两个孩子享受残疾人两项补贴，每人每年 1800 元，可仍是杯水车薪，贫困，时不时给父子三人的生活投下阴影。
The two children receive two allowances, 1,800 yuan per person per year, which is still a small amount of poverty and casts a shadow over the lives of the three of them.
由于鄢成的骨骼发育不良，易脆，他骨折过好几次。
Because Yan Cheng's bones are stunted and brittle, he has broken them several times.
2019 年 4 月 18 日又一次骨折后，鄢成被父亲带到武汉市儿童医院。
After another fracture on April 18, 2019, Yan Cheng was taken by her father to Wuhan Children's Hospital.
医生熟悉鄢家的家境，建议他不必住院，在门诊打石膏。
A doctor familiar with Yan's family suggests he avoid hospitalization and put in plaster at the outpatient clinic.
可在门诊不能打麻药，鄢成痛得挣扎，只好凑合着打石膏。
Can not be anaesthetized in the clinic, Yan Cheng Yan struggled with pain and had to make do with a cast.
「人工复位时有问题，有好大一条缝没对上，永远愈合不了」，朱文沁说。
"There is a problem with the artificial reset. There is a big slit on it that will never heal," Zhu said.
2019 年 4 月 18 日，在武汉儿童医院门诊。
18 April 2019, outpatient clinic, Wuhan Children's Hospital.
因不能打麻药，鄢成痛得挣扎，有好大一条缝没对上，至死都没愈合。
unable to beat the anesthetic, Yan Cheng Yan struggled with pain. There was a large gap between the two seams.
由于异地医保报销比例低，鄢小文决意把孩子带回红安县就医。
Due to the low rate of reimbursement for medical care elsewhere, Yan Xiaowen decided to take the children back to Hongan County.
朱文沁帮忙约了个货拉拉的面包车，单程 300 多元，鄢小文嫌贵。
Zhu Wenqin helped to arrange a van for a lesbian, more than 300 one-way, YanXiao Wen is too expensive.
他硬是找了个担架车，推着鄢成坐地铁、坐长途车回红安县。
He simply found a stretcher, pushed Yancheng by subway, ride a long-distance bus back to Hongan County.
县人民医院院长同意收治，但骨科主任不同意，推脱说红安县的石膏质量没武汉好。
County People's Hospital director agreed to accept the treatment, but the orthopaedic director did not agree, said that the quality of gypsum Hongan County than Wuhan.
鄢小文不甘心，他去找信访办、民政局投诉。
Yan Xiaowen refused. He went to the office and the Civil Affairs Bureau to complain.
为了省下在县城的住店钱，他拖着两个儿子，找到了县中医院，在一处闲置的房间里将就了一夜。
To save money on his stay in the county, he dragged his two sons to a county Chinese hospital, where he spent the night in a spare room.
到头来，白跑一趟。
After all, go for nothing.
「鄢成回武汉后，总是会疼得撕心裂肺的哭，哭了几个月。
"Yancheng Yan Cheng returned to Wuhan, will always be torn by pain tears, crying for months.
我睡的房间和他隔着客厅、隔着两道门，听他哭得就很难受，自己也跟着睡不着。
The room in which I slept was separated from him by two doors in the drawing-room, and it was hard to hear him cry, and I could not sleep myself.
有时候孩子睡着了也在哭，眼睛闭着了，嘴角还在抽拉。
Sometimes the child was crying when he was asleep, his eyes were closed and his mouth was still twitching.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
在生命的最后 10 个月，鄢成基本上都卧病在床，坐不了轮椅，世界只剩下这三楼窗外的树枝。
During the last 10 months of life, Yan Cheng was basically confined to bed, unable to ride in a wheelchair, leaving the world with only the branches of the trees outside the three-story window.
给两个儿子理发，鄢小文会别出心裁地剪出「比心」的形状。
A haircut for her two sons, Yan Xiaowen sculls the shape of the "Heart" in an ingenious way.
「残障孩子可以拖垮一个家庭。
"A disabled child can bring down a family.
护理鄢成特别累，不是常人所能想的。
Nursing Yan Cheng is particularly tired, not what most people think.
」朱文沁说，她记得每次出门前，鄢小文都会跟儿子打个招呼，说爸爸一会就回来。
"said Chu, remembering that Yan Xiaowen greeted her son every time he left home, saying that his father would be back in a few minutes.
「这能让孩子情绪安定。
"This will calm the child.
我都觉得鄢爸也太啰嗦了，有时候会被他感动。
I think Yan Da is too verbose, and sometimes he moves me.
」朱文沁说，她对儿子都没这么细腻。
"She is not so sensitive to her son," he said.
朱文沁也知道，当鄢小文还住在那城中村的出租屋时，等孩子入睡后，他会独自跑上天台，「一个人撑着太苦了，难免会有撑不下去的想法」。
"When Yan Xiaowen was still living in a rented house in that city, he would run alone to the roof when the child was asleep," he knew.
推卸责任中消逝的生机一通电话，让过年的喜庆戛然而止。
To shirk responsibility in the vanishing vitality of a telephone, so that the festive New Year stopped abruptly.
1 月 23 日，鄢小文给朱文沁打电话求助，说自己被接到华家河镇卫生院隔离。
On January 23, Yan Xiaowen called Zhu Wenqin to ask for help, saying he had been quarantined by the Huajiahe Health Center.
22 日，鄢小文在镇卫生院被诊断为上呼吸道感染，并被隔离一个小时。
On February 22, Yan Xiaowen was diagnosed with upper respiratory infection at the township hospital and held in isolation for an hour.
随后，医生建议他居家隔离「万一我人不在了，两孩子怎么办？」鄢小文问她。
Later, doctors advised him to stay in quarantine "in case I'm gone, what about the two kids?" Yan Xiaowen asked her.
朱文沁理解，当时，国内死亡人数达 17 例，大家已经开始恐慌。
At the time, there were 17 deaths in the country and people were beginning to panic, he said.
1 月 20 日，鄢小文发低烧。
On January 20, Yan Xiaowen suffered from a low fever.
22 日，雨，他转为高烧，在镇卫生院被诊断为「上呼吸道感染」，并被隔离一个小时。
On the 22nd, it rained and he became feverish and was diagnosed with an "upper respiratory infection" at the township hospital, where he was kept in isolation for an hour.
随后，医生建议他居家隔离。
The doctor then advised him to stay in isolation.
23 日凌晨 1 时，武汉宣布封城。
23, 1 a.m., Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
同日，黄冈也宣布部分封城。
The same day, Huang Gang also announced partial closure of the city.
根据红安县新冠病毒感染肺炎防控指挥部通告（第一号），「1 月 23 日开始集中收治全县发热疑似病例」。
According to the Red An County New Crown Virus Infection Pneumonia Control Command Notice (No.1), "Fever Suspected Cases in the County" has been centralized since January 23.
鄢小文被带走隔离，在镇卫生院被诊断为疑似病例。
Yan Xiaowen was taken into isolation and diagnosed as a suspected case at the township hospital.
24 日上午 11 时，县疾控中心将鄢小文转诊至红安县疫情集中收治点隔离，分配到杏花乡卫生院 37 号病床。
At 11 a.m. on the 24th, Yan Xiaowen was referred by the County CDC to Hongan County Centralized Treatment Point for distribution to bed No. 37 of the Xianghua Township Health Center.
与鄢小文一同被带走隔离的，还有小儿子。
Taken away in isolation with Yan Xiaowen, along with her youngest son.
大儿子被独留家中，院方表示没有特殊护理条件，且床位紧张，不便接收。
The eldest son was left at home alone. The hospital said there was no special care and the bed was too tight to receive.
「我没有想到自己会一去不回，本来想着当天就能回家。
"I didn't think I'd be gone forever, I thought I'd be home the same day.
」鄢小文说。
"Yan Xiaowen said.
「有家长说鄢爸，为什么不拼死拼活、不把孩子带走就不走？」朱文沁说，固然性格不同，处理方式也不一样，但在当时，「鄢爸想着，自己家情况特殊，都以为会照顾一下，医院会继续同意他居家隔离。
"Some parents said Yan Dad, why don't you just fight your way through life and not take the kids with you?" Mr. Zhu said. "Although the disposition is different and the treatment is different, at the time," Yan father Yan thought he would take care of his family and the hospital would continue to allow him to stay at home.
」鄢小文没拿换洗衣服，连条毛巾都没拿，「我跟小儿子这么多天了，也没换过衣服」。
Yan Xiaowen didn't take a change of clothes, not even a towel. "I've been with my little son for so many days and haven't changed my clothes."
直到鄢成死后的第三天，当镇卫生院院长来时，他求助，院长妻子帮他买了套衣服，父子俩各一套内衣。
On the third day after Yan Cheng's death, when the director of the township hospital came, he asked for help. The dean's wife helped him buy a suit of clothes.
「得有人接管鄢成。
"" Someone needs to take over Yan Cheng.
」得知后，朱文沁、暖暖等几个家长达成共识，1 月 23 日下午，他们轮流打电话求助，鄢家村村主任、镇卫生院、县政府、县公安局。
Hearing this, several parents, including Zhu Wenqin, warm and warm, reached a consensus. On January 23 afternoon, they took turns to call for help.
困守在隔离病房的鄢小文，能做的有限。
Trapped in an isolation ward, Yan Xiaowen can do little.
1 月 23 日晚，他手机没电，和外界断了联系。
On the night of 23 January, he lost his cell phone and was cut off from the outside world.
但志愿者们为鄢成奔走呼号，并未削减半分，心智障碍儿童的家长们是主力。
But the volunteers were not slashed by half for Yancheng, with parents of children with mental disabilities as the main force.
「一旦出现危机，家长们特别需要一些外援。
"In the event of a crisis, parents in particular need some foreign aid.
」来自北京晓更基金会、负责执行「融合中国」公益项目的陈婧劼说，家长组织抱团取暖的属性特别强烈，她认识鄢小文大半年。
Chen Jing, from the Dawson Foundation in Beijing, who was responsible for implementing the "Integration of China" public welfare project, said Jing Jieren. She knew Yan Xiaowen for about half a year.
为什么需要外援？据中国精神残疾人及亲友协会（下文简称「中精协」）的调研数据：心智障碍者的家长相应的牺牲、失控、愤怒、自我批评、依赖、负担是普通儿童家庭的 2 倍或数倍。
According to research conducted by the China Association of Persons with Mental Disabilities and Their Relatives and Relatives (CPAPD), parents of persons with mental disabilities are twice or several times more likely to suffer from sacrifices, loss of control, anger, self-criticism, dependency and burden.
这不是单亲家庭可以承受的。
This is not affordable for single-parent families.
朱文沁的手机电量在快速减少。
Zhuwenqin's cell phone power is rapidly decreasing.
1 月 23 日晚 20 时 30 分，她联系上了鄢成的大表哥。
At 20: 30 p.m. on January 23, she contacted Yancheng's first cousin.
大表哥说，自家还有孩子，当天太晚，第二天有空再去看看。
The first cousin said that his family and children, too late that day, the next day free to see again.
鄢成在同村本还有一个大伯，过年没有回村。
Yancheng also had a big uncle in his village and did not return to the village for the New Year.
20 时 50 分，朱文沁联系上中精协湖北站站长，他建议向湖北省残联汇报。
At 20.50, Zhu Wenqin contacted the stationmaster of Hubei Station of Zhongjing Association, and he suggested reporting to the FIMITIC of Hubei Province.
她直接向省残联刘处长说明情况，刘处长联系红安县残联。
She directly to the provincial FIMITIC Liu Director explained the situation, Liu Director contact Hongan County Disability Federation.
21 时 30 分，县残联给村主任打电话，请求村里每天给鄢成送饭。
At 2130 hours, the CDPF called the village director and asked Yan Cheng to bring her food every day.
1 月 24 日 11 时，村主任和村医熊天明一起，带着橘子、饼干等食物探视鄢成，测量体温，37 摄氏度，正常。
At 1100 hours on January 24, Faipule and Village Medical Bear visited Yan Cheng with oranges, biscuits and other food to take a temperature of 37 degrees Celsius, normal.
「偶尔治愈」注意到，官方内部报告全文提及 20 次「测体温」，但只有这唯一一次测量结果被提到。
"Occasional Healing" notes that the official internal report refers to "body temperature" 20 times in its entirety, but only this single measurement is mentioned.
根据官方内部报告，至少在 1 月 25 日，鄢成已被定性为「留观人员」。
According to official internal reports, Yan Cheng has been designated a "watchman" by at least January 25.
大年初一，针对鄢成的情况，镇党委书记汪宝权安排村主任陈敬友、鄢家村驻村干部韩征平、民警郭学武、村医熊天明包保。
On the first day of the Year, Yancheng Yan's party secretary Wang Baoquan arranged village director Chen Jingyou, Visayas village cadre Han Zhiping, civilian police Guo Xuewu, village medical bear Tianming Bao.
鄢家村两委也开会研究鄢成的照料情况，安排村医当晚去照料鄢成。
Yan Jia's two committee members also meet to study Yan Cheng's care and arrange for the village doctor to visit Yan Cheng that evening.
因没有防护衣，这一天，村医至鄢家门口，「看了一下没有进家」。
As there was no protective clothing, the village doctor went to the Visayas door and "looked around and did not come home."
镇党委书记得知后，要求镇卫生院派人每天到家照顾鄢成、测体温。
When the Secretary of the Town Party Committee learned, he asked the township hospital to send people home every day to watch Yancheng and take temperature.
根据官方内部报告，从 1 月 24 日 11 时到 1 月 26 日 16 时 30 分，没有任何人来看望鄢成。
According to official internal reports, no one visited Yancheng from 1100 hours on 24 January to 1630 hours on 26 January.
1 月 25 日，暖暖联系镇卫生院，「能不能暂时把孩子送去福利院代为托管两天？」医院的回复是明确的，「不行，必须就地隔离」。
On January 25, warm and warm contact town health center, "can you send the children to the welfare home for two days temporarily?" The response of the hospital was clear, "No, it must be isolated in situ."
红安县新冠病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部于 1 月 24 日发布公告，公布杏花乡卫生院收治疑似及确诊病例，此外，集中医学隔离观察点设在县青少年校外活动中心集中营。
The Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice on January 24 announcing the admission of suspected and confirmed cases to the Hung Hom Hospital. In addition, the Centralized Medical Isolation Observatory was set up in the out-of-school camp for young people in the county.
1 月 27 日下午，鄢小文与村主任联系，提出照料费用由家长出，希望尽快给鄢成安排护理人员。
On the afternoon of January 27, Yan Xiaowen contacted the village director and suggested that the care costs be borne by parents, hoping to arrange nursing staff for Yan Cheng as soon as possible.
村主任答复：没有防护服，就算花钱也找不到护理人员。
Village director replied: no protective clothing, even if the money can not find nursing staff.
7 天的营救里，志愿者们一直在远程追问鄢成的境况，各方都在相互推脱：有亲属不愿照顾、卫生院说鄢成是「高危人群」、缺乏防护服则村里不愿护理。
Throughout the seven-day rescue, volunteers continued to question Yan Cheng remotely, pushing each other aside: relatives reluctant to take care of him, health authorities calling Yan Cheng a "high-risk group," and villages reluctant to take care of them without protective clothing.
在形形色色的推辞背后，恐慌情绪占据主导。
Behind all sorts of retorts, panic reigns.
蔓延开来的新冠病毒肺炎疫情，让与鄢小文密切接触的鄢成，成了人人唯恐避之不及的「高危人群」。
The spread of the New Crown Virus pneumonia has caused Yan Cheng, who is in close contact with Yan Xiaowen, to become a "high-risk group" to be avoided by everyone.
朱文沁在忙着求救之余，还得消毒「蜗牛家园」。
Zhu Wenqin busy in the call for help, but also had to disinfect "snail's home."
「说不慌张那是假的，毕竟鄢爸是疑似患者，他在家里住过，全部要消毒。
"It's fake not to panic. After all, Yanpa is a suspected patient who lived at home and had to be disinfected.
」她说，她跑遍了周边，可市面上当时已买不到消毒酒精。
"She said she had traveled all over the neighborhood, but there was no alcohol available for sterilization.
最好的一次救治机会有很多人试图挽救这条生命。
Best chance at a cure There are many people trying to save this life.
许多人在为鄢成呐喊和奔走，只是这些声音在疫情面前如此无力。
Many people shouted and ran for Yan Cheng, but the voices were so weak in the face of the epidemic.
1 月 24 日，村医给鄢成测量体温，37 摄氏度，正常。
On January 24, Yancheng was taken by a village doctor at 37 degrees Celsius, normal.
这是在官方内部报告中唯一一次被披露的量体温结果。
This is the only official internal report that has been released to measure body temperature.
7 天里，鄢成至少被测过 9 次体温，至今，鄢小文不知道其他 8 次的测体温结果。
Seven days, Yan Cheng is measured at least nine times, and Yan Xiao Wen does not know the results of the other eight temperature measurements.
「给脑瘫孩子量体温，很麻烦，因为肌张力有差异。
"Measuring the body temperature of a child with cerebral palsy is troublesome because of differences in muscle tension.
体温针可能会塞不进，他的胳肢窝夹不紧。
The temperature needle might not fit in, his armpits would not clamp.
」陈婧劼说。
Jing Jieren said that she was Jieren.
「鄢爸一直没能和村医有直接联系，村医方面的信息其实我们是缺失的，包括孩子的体温、对吃饭、喝水的反应。
"FYan Da has not been able to get in direct contact with village doctors. Information about village doctors is missing, including their body temperature, reaction to food and water.
」陈婧劼说，这些详细信息，本可以帮后方更精准判断孩子的状况。
Chen Jieren said that these details could have helped her to better judge her child's condition.
残联系统、110 报警、120 呼叫……各种渠道的援救努力，上面千条线，下面一根针，常常只有村主任这单一的触点回应。
FIMITIC system, 110 alarm, 120 call... all kinds of rescue efforts, above a thousand lines, the following needle, often only the village director this single contact response.
家长们只能一次次请求村主任拍下鄢成正脸的照片，以确认他的精神状况——这要求并不总能如愿。
Parents can only ask Yancheng Fen to take photographs of him again and again to confirm his mental condition - something that is not always the case.
「在焦虑和恐慌中，我们是拼命的找回应。
"In the midst of anxiety and panic, we're desperate for a response.
但是得到的信息都特别少。
However, very little information is available.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
鄢成曾有过唯一一次被收治和照料的机会。
Yan Cheng was once admitted and cared for only once.
根据官方内部报告，1 月 26 日 18 时左右，镇卫生院反映鄢成体温偏高，向镇党委书记反映该情况。
According to official internal reports, Yancheng's fever was reported to the Town Party Secretary at about 1800 hours on 26 January.
镇党委书记与主治医生、县医院院长董彬反映，董彬安排做相关检查。
Town party committee secretary and attending doctor, director of county hospital Dong Bin reflects, Dong Bin arranges to do relevant examination.
21 时左右，鄢成被送往镇卫生院，进行测体温、拍片子、验血等检查。
At about 2100 hours, Yan Cheng is sent to the Town Health Center for body temperature measurement, photography, and blood tests.
经镇卫生院检查，并与董彬电话沟通研判，确认尚不构成留院观察。
After the township hospital inspection, and Dong Bin telephone communication with the investigation, confirmed that does not yet constitute hospital observation.
22 时左右，鄢成又被送回家中，居家隔离。
At about 2200 hours, Yan Cheng was returned to her home, where she was kept isolated.
因床位紧张，不具备隔离条件，镇卫生院希望将鄢成送到鄢小文身边，被杏花乡卫生院以「怕造成更多传染」为由拒绝。
Because of the shortage of beds and the lack of isolation, Yancheng Fen is expected to be sent to Yan Xiaowen by the township clinic of Apricot Flower on the grounds of "fear of further infection."
鄢成在镇卫生院时，朱文沁在与村主任电话时问，「能不能把孩子留院，也算救孩子一命？」没等村主任说完，电话被人抢过去，对方质问朱文沁：「你懂不懂医？」对方说，鄢成的父亲是疑似新冠病毒患者，鄢成是传染性的高危人群，他大小便失禁，给他处理会污染整间病房，怎么能留在医院？朱文沁询问对方是谁，没有答复。
When Yan Cheng was at the township clinic, Chu Wenqin asked the village director, "Can you keep the baby in hospital and save the child's life?" Before the village director finished speaking, the caller asked him, "Do you understand the doctor?" Yan Cheng's father was a suspected Crested Virus patient.
「隔离父亲的时候，他们说孩子不发烧、没感染、不隔离；现在半夜三更弄到医院去了，他们又说孩子是一个传染源，不收孩子。
"When they quarantined their father, they said the children were not feverish, infected or isolated; now they went to the hospital in the middle of the night, and they said the baby was a source of infection and did not receive children.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
残联系统的努力，一直在持续。
The efforts of the FIMITIC system have continued.
1 月 27 日，县残联一行人到镇里对接，研究鄢成看护问题，带来纸尿裤 2 包、牛奶 1 件、慰问金 1000 元。
On January 27, FIMITIC and its crew docked in the town to study Yan Cheng's care, bringing 2 bags of diapers, 1 piece of milk and 1,000 yuan of comfort.
鄢小文一直不知道慰问金由谁保管，「我们是看到新闻了，才知道有这些。
Yan Xiaowen did not know who kept the money. "We saw the news and knew it."
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
眼看情况陷入停滞，远在北京、广州等地的志愿者坐不住了。
Seeing the situation stagnate, volunteers as far away as Beijing, Guangzhou and other places can't sit back.
1 月 27 日 16 时许，通过陈婧劼、戴榕等人的联络，各方人士建立了「援助湖北红安鄢爸」的微信群。
On January 27, at about 16: 00 pm, through Jing Jing, Banyan Dai liaised with others, and various personages established a micro-group to assist Red Anyan Dad in Hubei Province.
群里有律师帮助起草了关于鄢成监护人的委托书模板，但鄢小文没有写。
A lawyer in the group helped draw up a power of attorney template for Yan Cheng's guardian, but Yan Xiaowen did not write it.
其间，大家一度在群里欢呼，「残联的领导都出面了」，「各方面的信息都在向利好方向发展」。
In the meantime, everyone once cheered in the group, "the leaders of the FIMITIC have come forward", "all aspects of the information is developing in a positive direction."
官方内部报告里保留了一张拍摄于 1 月 26 日 16 时 30 分的照片，刚被喂完蛋黄派的鄢成，笑容满面。
A photo taken on January 26 at 16: 30 was kept in the official internal report, a grin by Yan Cheng, who had just been fed the yolk pie.
在 1 月 26 日晚 22 时，镇卫生院对鄢成所作的血检报告单显示，指标无异常。
At 2200 hours on the evening of January 26, a blood test report by Yan Cheng showed no abnormalities.
刚被喂完蛋黄派的鄢成到头来一场空鄢宏伟会喂哥哥吃饭，会给鄢成盖被子，当鄢成的头从床上滑下来了，弟弟会扶着哥哥归位。
Yansheng, newly fed with yolk pie, turns out to be a grandiose Visayas feeding her brother a meal, which covers Yan Cheng with a quilt. When Yan Cheng's head slips off the bed, his brother helps his brother home.
「当初鄢爸生老二，也有让弟弟照顾哥哥的意图。
"When Father Yan Yan gave birth to his second child, he also wanted his brother to take care of him.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
鄢小文有意训练弟弟，照顾哥哥。
Yan Xiao Wen deliberately trains her younger brother to take care of him.
他想着，当自己哪天不在了，就得靠兄弟俩相依为命。
When he was gone, he thought, it was up to the brothers to live side by side.
如今，鄢成身边没了父亲，也没了弟弟。
Now Yan Cheng has no father or brother with him.
鄢成的二姑曾经照顾过侄子，对他有感情，她是唯一一个去看望鄢成的亲戚。
Yan Cheng's second sister-in-law took care of her nephew and felt for him. She was the only relative to visit Yan Cheng.
1 月 23、24 日，她连续上门喂食鄢成，随后，二姑自己病了，1 月 24 日到 26 日接连三天在镇卫生院输液。
On January 23 and 24, she continued to feed Yan Cheng door-to-door. Later, her sister-in-law fell ill and infusion at the township clinic for three days, from January 24 to 26.
1 月 28 日早，二姑出门准备去看鄢成，被姑父拦住，理由是家中还有小孙子需要照顾。
Early on January 28, Ernu went out to see Yan Cheng and was stopped by her uncle on the grounds that she still had grandchildren to look after.
但二姑还是执意出门，从双河村到鄢家村，走了半个多小时的路。
But the second sister-in-law still insisted on going out, from Shuanghe village to Visayas village, walked more than half an hour.
鄢家有三间平房，墙上贴着毛泽东在开国大典的照片、中国地图等。
The Yangs have three bungalows with pictures of Mao Zedong at the founding of the country, Chinese maps and so on.
2017 年，因原有房屋已成危房，鄢家获易地扶贫搬迁政策扶持，新建平房。
In 2017, Yan's family was supported by a pro-poor relocation policy and the construction of new bungalows, as their original homes had become dilapidated.
根据官方记录，鄢家享受易迁户产业分红每年 1300 元，至今共获得光伏产业分红 7498 元，2018 年、2019 年分别享受民政临时救助 3000 元。
According to official records, Yan's family enjoys an annual income of 1,300 yuan. So far, it has won 7,498 yuan in dividends from photovoltaic industries, and 3,000 yuan in temporary civil aid in 2018 and 2019.
没有装修的屋子里，没有空调，没有任何取暖设备，竟连电热水壶都没有。
There was no air-conditioning, no heating, not even an electric kettle.
鄢成离去的 1 月 29 日，当地最低气温是零下一度。
On January 29, when Yan Cheng left, the local minimum temperature was minus one degree.
按照官方内部报告，1 月 28 日，村医熊天明到鄢家时，发现鄢成二姑已到。
According to an official internal report, Yansheng Yansheng was found on January 28 when the village doctor Yan Ming visited her house.
当时只有一套防护服，村医便把防护服给了二姑，村医在门外没进。
At that time only a suit of protective clothing, the village doctor gave the second sister-in-law, village doctor outside the door did not enter.
二姑发现鄢成「被褥、床单全部湿透、身上温度低冷、头悬空着，嘴角有呕吐迹象，脸上脖子上都是脏东西，被子里面也是」。
She finds Yan Cheng "drenched through with sheets and sheets, with cold temperatures hanging from her body, vomiting at the corners of her mouth and dirty things around her neck and under covers."
「此前一个月内，鄢成从没有过呕吐症状。
"Yan Cheng had not experienced vomiting during the previous month.
」鄢小文说。
"Yan Xiaowen said.
就在这黑暗、寒冷、孤独、屎尿的包裹下，鄢成湿淋淋地度日。
Beneath this dark, cold, lonely, and urine package, Yan Yan lives in a wet condition.
「他怕黑，对黑暗是有感知的。
"He is afraid of the dark and has a perception of it.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
二姑说，鄢成看见她时高兴得嘴里哇哇地叫。
said Yan Cheng, squealing with delight when she saw her.
二姑给鄢成擦洗身子，换了尿不湿，喂了半杯开水。
Ernu Yan Cheng to scrub the body, changed not wet urine, fed half a cup of boiling water.
鄢成吃了两口热粥，就不愿吃了。
Yan Cheng eats two mouthfuls of hot porridge and refuses to eat it.
给侄子换纸尿裤时，二姑发现，虽然5天未曾换过纸尿裤，鄢成却没有任何大便的痕迹。
When changing her nephew's diapers, she noticed that Yan Cheng showed no signs of defecation, even though she hadn't changed her diapers for five days.
朱文沁说，「孩子吃得太少了，以至于连着 5 天都没有大便，在武汉时，鄢成是每天相近时间都有大便的」。
"Children eat so little that they do not defecate for five days at a stretch," says Zhu. "Yan Cheng has stools at close quarters of the day in Wuhan."
照顾了鄢成三次的二姑，1 月 29 日，因疑似冠状病毒感染，被隔离。
Yan Cheng Yan looked after the third sister-in-law, who was quarantined on January 29 for a suspected coronavirus infection.
「当时我们担心，孩子可能面临很严峻的考验。
"At the time, we were concerned that the children might face a very serious test.
」陈婧劼说。
Jing Jieren said that she was Jieren.
鄢小文咨询镇卫生院的一位医生，这是他的小学同学，该医生判断鄢成「可能状况不好」，急需医疗支持。
Yan Xiaowen consults with a doctor at the township clinic, his schoolmate Yancheng, who says Yan Cheng is "probably in bad shape" and in urgent need of medical support.
根据官方内部报告，1 月 27 日，镇长与村两委商定，由村聘李树政（原村医）暂时负责鄢成的定时探视、护理，李树政表示同意。
According to official internal reports, on 27 January, the Mayor and the village committee agreed that Yancheng would be visited and cared for by Yansheng on a temporary basis by the village doctor, Lee Shu-shing, who agreed.
当晚 19 时 30 分，村主任通知鄢小文，护理人员已找到。
At 1930 hours, Faipule Yan informed Yan Xiaowen that paramedics had been located.
此前因为没有防护服而不同意护理的村医熊天明，1 月 27 日下午，还是对鄢成喂食。
Yansheng was also fed on the afternoon of January 27 by Tian Ming, a village doctor who had refused to take care of him because he had no protective clothing.
她拿红色塑料袋包住自己头部，戴上了一个红色电动车头盔，挡风玻璃把脸遮得严实。
She wrapped her head in a red plastic bag and put on a red electric car helmet with a windshield that covered her face tightly.
在陈婧劼的远程指导下，鄢小文开通了微博。
Jing Jieren was remote guidance, Yan Xiaowen opened a micro blog.
1 月 28 日 10 时，鄢小文发布微博求助说，「我担心孩子快不行了」。
At 1000 hours on January 28, Yan Xiaowen posted a micro-blog asking for help, saying, "I'm worried that the baby is going to die."
在鄢小文和志愿者们数番探讨后，一封求助信定稿、发出：「由于村里人担心鄢成有被感染的可能性，从 23 日到 27 日，村里领导多次协调，仍无法找到能为鄢成解决换洗护理和一日三餐问题的照料人员。
After much discussion with volunteers, Yan Xiaowen finalized a letter asking for help: "Because villagers feared Yancheng was at risk of infection, village leaders coordinated many times from 23 to 27 and were unable to find caregivers capable of handling laundry and meals by Yan Cheng.
因为孩子和我密切接触，且出现过 1 次低烧，也进入疑似人群在家单独隔离，由于没有防护设备，所以无法安排相关人员久留照料吃喝、处理大小便及换洗照料。
Since the child was in close contact with me and had a low fever on one occasion, and was placed in solitary confinement with the suspected group, it was not possible to arrange for the person concerned to stay for long periods of time to care for food, water, urine and washing due to lack of protective equipment.
」为此，他向社会爱心人士征集防护服。
To this end, he solicited protective clothing from caring members of the community.
微博求助发出又撤回，来回折腾。
Weibo calls back and forth, tossing back and forth.
「本来是想，确定有防护服，那就撤了求助信。
"If I wanted to be sure that I had protective clothing, I had to withdraw my cover letter.
当知道鄢成可以去安置点，我们更是毫不犹豫把微博撤了。
Knowing Yan Cheng could go to the site, we did not hesitate to pull the micro-blog.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
被撤回前，那条微博的阅读量是 67，也就是最多被 67 人看到。
Before it was withdrawn, the tweet had a reading of 67, or at most 67 people.
鄢小文担心啊，1 月 28 日，7 个小时内他给村主任打了 8 个电话。
Yan Xiaowen worried that he made eight calls to the village director in seven hours on January 28.
1 月 28 日下午到晚上，朱文沁反复拨打当地的 120、县里的公安局、镇里的派出所电话，被告知「只收急救病人」、「要向领导反馈」、「除了死人，紧急情况才会出警」。
From the afternoon of January 28 to the evening of January 28, Zhu Wenqin repeatedly dialed the local 120, the county public security bureau, the town police station telephone, was told that "only accept first aid patients," "to the leadership feedback," "except for the dead, emergency will only alarm."
而鄢小文也求助无门，当地 120 接线员对他说，「未成年人需要监护人陪同，否则无法出诊」。
Yan Xiaowen also asked for help, local 120 operators told him, "minors need a guardian to accompany them, otherwise unable to visit."
「孩子恐怕今天晚上没有医疗支持，会出危险。
"I'm afraid the child will be in danger tonight without medical support.
」1 月 28 日 19 时 45 分，暖暖联系村主任，说 120 建议由村里 110 报警，由 110 给 120 派单，他们就会来接。
At 1945 hours on January 28, the director of the village was contacted for warmth. He said that 120 people from the village would call the police and 110 send the order.
「110、I20 都没来，还是我们去看看吧。
"I haven't even come yet. Let's go and see.
」20 时 51 分，村主任回复。
At 2051 hours, the village director replied.
一再催促下，村主任、新护理人员当天给鄢成喂了两次氨基酸，医生建议，这可以缓解鄢成的呕吐。
Urged again and again, the village director and new nurses fed Yan Cheng two amino acids that day, which doctors recommended to ease Yancheng's vomiting.
还好，一次性防护服到了。
Luckily, the disposable protective clothing arrived.
1 月 28 日，村医用完后简单消了个毒，第二天穿的还是这一套。
January 28, the village after the simple elimination of a poison, the next day wearing the same set.
这浅黄色的防护服轻薄透光，非连体，长不及膝，穿者后背裸露大半，靠腰部打结固定。
The light yellow suit was light and light, non-conjoined, below the knees, and worn bare to the back, tied at the waist.
1 月 28 日上午，按县指挥部要求，华家河镇设立集中观察点，鄢成被明确为集中观察对象，定于第二天转送鄢成到镇集中观察点。
On the morning of January 28, at the request of the County Command, a concentrated observation point was set up in the town of Huagahe, Yancheng being identified as the object of intensive observation, which is scheduled to be transferred to Yancheng the following day.
会后，镇党委书记决要求镇卫生院将县里拨给的防护服取两套，专门用于鄢成的护理。
After the meeting, the town party committee secretary insisted that the township hospitals take two suits of protective clothing allocated by the county, designed for Yan Cheng's care.
根据官方内部报告，1 月 27 日下午，镇长彭志鸿等探视鄢成，说他「状况平稳」。
According to official internal reports, Yancheng was visited by Mayor Pang Zhihong on the afternoon of January 27, saying he was "in stable condition."
1 月 28 日晚 21 时，村主任、村医看望鄢成，说他「状态尚可」。
At 2100 hours on the evening of 28 January, the village doctor visited Yan Cheng and said he was "in good condition."
在家长以及社会组织频繁对外求助的几天里，有力的救护始终没有到达。
In the days when parents and social organizations frequently turn to the outside world for help, effective help never arrives.
死后百态白色救护车第二次开到了鄢家门口，是在 1 月 29 日。
The posthumous white ambulance made its second trip to the Visayas' door on January 29.
10 时 43 分，暖暖收到村主任发来信息：「已经给鄢成喂了氨基酸，没换洗纸尿裤。
At 1043 hours, Warm Warm received a message from the village director: "Yan Cheng was fed amino acids and did not change diapers.
孩子精神还可以。
The child is in good spirits.
」11 时 30 分左右，鄢成被送上救护车，送往镇上的一处酒店隔离。
At about 11.30 a.m. Yan Cheng was taken to an ambulance and taken to a hotel in the town to be isolated.
「我们都在一片欢腾中，湖北好多群都为这个事情开心，多少天没听到好消息了，大家都开心得不得了。
"We were all in a state of euphoria. Hubei many groups were happy about this, for many days did not hear the good news, we were very happy.
家长们还纷纷写感谢信，感谢各级领导。
Parents also wrote thank-you notes thanking leaders at all levels.
」朱文沁说，鄢小文给她电话，「鄢成得救了。
"said Yan Xiaowen, calling her." Yan Cheng is saved.
」喜悦稍纵即逝。
"The joy was fleeting.
1 月 29 日下午 14 时 30 分，鄢小文在微信里告诉朱文沁，「孩子走了」。
At 1430 hours on January 29, Yan Xiaowen told him in a micro-letter that "the child is gone."
朱文沁以为，他说的是鄢成被送到隔离酒店了。
Chu thought he was talking about Yan Cheng being sent to a secluded hotel.
一深想，她觉得不对劲，打电话过去，鄢小文说，「孩子去天堂了。
Thinking deeply that something was wrong, Yan Xiao Wen said, "The child is going to heaven.
」电话那边传来抽泣声，朱文沁心头一酸。
"There was a sob on the phone.
朱文沁马上给某位热心协助的残联领导打了电话，她哭诉道，「孩子不是病死的，是被饿死的，被冻死的。
Zhu Wenqin immediately called a leader of the CDPF who was eager to help. She cried, "The child did not die from illness, but from hunger and froze to death.
」官方公布的鄢成死亡时间是 12 时 30 分，死在集中观测点的房间内。
"Yan Cheng's official death occurred at 12.30 p.m. and occurred in a room at a centralized observation point.
「偶尔治愈」注意到，镇卫生院陶卫波拍摄的鄢成被担架抬着抵达集中安置点的照片，鄢成面部发白，双目闭着，发给暖暖是在 12 时 25 分。
"Occasionally cured," Yan Cheng, photographed by township hospital Tao Wei-po, was carried by a stretcher to a central settlement. Yan Cheng's face turned white, her eyes closed, and warm was given at 1225 hours.
14 时 44 分时，陶卫波电话里对暖暖说，「 12 点半左右感觉孩子没有发烧。
At 1444 hours, Tao Wei-po said on the phone to warm up. "At about 12: 30, I don't think the child has a fever.
精神不太好，因为饿了很长时间。
Not so good because I've been hungry for a long time.
和隔离点交接完，我就走了。
I'm done handing over to the quarantine. l'm leaving.
」官方公布的鄢成死亡时间是 1 月 29 日12 时 30 分，暖暖收到陶卫波所拍的鄢成抵达集中安置点的照片，是 12 时 25 分。
"Yan Cheng's official death date is 12: 30 pm on January 29, and Warming received a photo of Yan Cheng arriving at a concentration camp by Tao Wei-po at 12: 25.
持续 7 天的营救行动，就这么结束了。
The rescue operation, which lasted seven days, was over.
前一天晚上，朱文沁在群里组织唱国歌，让家长们接力唱，希望能让大家积极一些。
The night before, Zhu Wenqin in the group to sing the national anthem, let parents sing, hope to make everyone more positive.
鄢成死后，作为群主的她通知大家，静群三天，「心里只有鄢成走了这一件事情，太痛苦了，啥都不想想，啥也不想看。
When Yan Cheng died, she, as the group leader, informed the audience that after three days of silence, "Yan Cheng alone walked by this event. It was too painful to think about anything and to read anything."
」自闭症群体公众号「大米和小米」于 1 月 29 日晚发出了鄢成之死的经过，在网上反响强烈。
The autistic community "Rice and Millet" was launched on the evening of January 29, setting off the death of Yan Cheng.
「大米和小米」从一开始就跟进此事，到 1 月 28 日都没有发稿，是出于对政府及残联的尊重，「一直到1月28日得到的明确消息都是孩子会得救，没想到第二天等来的是死讯。
Rice and Millet followed up from the very beginning and did not send a copy until January 28 out of respect for the government and the FIMITIC. "The clear message until January 28 was that the child would be saved.
我们也非常自责。
We also blame ourselves very much.
」蜂拥而至的采访电话，让鄢小文选择了当晚关机逃避。
"Flooded by phone calls, Yan Xiao-wen chose to turn off her cell phone that night.
有一些网民留言称，孩子活得太苦了，死了比活着好，这对家长来说也是一种解脱。
Some netizens wrote that the child lives too hard, dies better than lives, this also is a kind of relief to the parents.
「这是没有把心智障碍孩子，当成一个值得生存的人看待，一个生命的消亡，怎堪如此蔑视？」陈婧劼说，她参与援救的动机是「生命权」。
It was not treated as a person worth living. How could a life die so contemptuously? Chen Jing said that her motive for participating in the rescue was "the right to life."
「在很多人的眼里，鄢成，是个拖累。
"Yan Cheng is a drag to many people.
他的离开好像是某种意义上的解脱。
His departure seemed to be a sort of relief.
可我想说，不是的，他不是累赘。
But I would say, no, he's not a nuisance.
」鄢小文在2月4日重新发微博对外回应。
Yan Xiaowen reissued her Twitter response on February 4.
「这是一个非常大的讽刺。
"This is a great irony.
之前的 16 年，鄢成没有被当做一个正常的人而被社会尊重过、关注过。
For the past 16 years, Yan Cheng has not been respected or noticed by society as a normal person.
死后，他才被视作一个和其他人一样平等的生命，拥有活过的意义。
When he died, he was treated as a human being on an equal footing with others, with meaning to live.
」「大米和小米」创始人姜英爽说。
"said Jiang Yingshuang, founder of Rice and Millet.
1 月 30 日 9 时许，红安县政府发布消息称，1 月 29 日，成立了由县公安局牵头，县纪委监委、县卫健局、县残联等单位负责人参与的联合调查组，对鄢成死亡事件展开全面调查。
On January 29, at about 9 a.m., the government of Hongan County announced that a joint investigation team led by the county public security bureau and involving the heads of the county disciplinary committees, county health bureaus and county disability federations was set up on 29 January to conduct a comprehensive investigation into Yan Cheng's death.
1 月 30 日中午，杏花乡卫生院的隔离病房内，鄢小文坐在病床上，红安县残联康复部主任刘长安、华家河镇党委书记汪宝权、华家河镇民政办主任张建围着他。
At noon on January 30, Yan Xiaowen sat in his hospital bed in the isolation ward of the Xianghua Township Health Center. Liu Changan, director of the rehabilitation department of CDPF, Wang Baoquan, secretary of the Huajiahe party committee, and Zhang Jian, director of the Huajiahe District Office surrounded him.
「24 小时内，遗体必须火化。
"Within 24 hours, the body must be cremated.
」鄢小文回忆三名干部对他说的话，他们催促鄢小文签下授权委托书，反复强调要鄢小文同意「遗体火化」，「这是按照国家对疫情防控的指示和规定。
"Yan Xiaowen recalls what the three cadres said to him. They urged Yan to sign a power of attorney, repeatedly stressing that Yan agreed to" cremate the body, "" in accordance with national directives and regulations on disease control. "
」三名干部穿着防护服、戴着护目镜和 N95 口罩。
Three cadres were wearing protective clothing, goggles and N95 masks.
1 月 28 日 8 时 50 分，镇卫生院院长王基俭对暖暖说，「医院一套防护服都没有了，医护人员只有防尘服穿。
At 8: 50 a.m. on January 28, the head of the township hospital, Wang Kejian, told Warm Warm. "There is no protective clothing in the hospital, only the medical staff wear dust-proof clothes.
」1 月 30 日 14 时，鄢小文在一张白纸上手写下歪歪扭扭的字迹，签字、手蘸红色印泥、按上指印：「全权委托鄢成舅舅李自力代我处理鄢成遗体火化处理」「孩子已经在殡仪馆了。
"On January 30, at 1400 hours, Yan Xiao-wen wrote in a crooked hand on a sheet of white paper, signed and dipped his hand in red ink and pressed the fingerprint:" Uncle Yan Cheng Lee handled the cremation of Yan Cheng's body on my behalf.
」领导们告诉鄢小文。
"The leaders tell Yan Xiao Wen.
1 月 30 日 14 时 40 分，当被「偶尔治愈」追问，是否明白，这份授权委托书一签，大儿子的遗体「就将被火化」时，鄢小文的语气变得犹疑起来，他说，他没有直接同意，是迫于压力，还要和妻兄商量，「听到儿子的死讯，我唯一想到的就是捐赠遗体」。
At 1440 hours on 30 January, when asked by the "occasional healer," Yan Xiaowen became suspicious when the power of attorney was signed and the eldest son's body "will be cremated." He said that he had no direct consent and was under pressure to consult his brother-in-law.
18时 21 分，鄢小文给镇民政办主任张建发微信，「我郑重声明，下午的授权委托书无效。
At 1821 hours, Yan Xiaowen addressed a letter to Zhang Jianfa, Director of the Town Planning Office. "I solemnly declare the power of attorney invalid this afternoon.
」张建无回复。
"Zhang did not reply.
在志愿者们的建议下，鄢小文给妻兄打电话，说政府马上来找他签字，但我改变主意了，不能签。
At the suggestion of the volunteers, Yan Xiaowen called her brother-in-law and said the government would come to him for his signature.
于是，鄢成舅妈把上门的政府干部撵走了。
Thus, Aunt Yan Cheng turned out government officials who had come to her door.
根据官方内部报告，鄢小文的妻兄李自力、二姐鄢继荣和其他近亲属均不愿到场（鄢成死亡地点）。
Yan's brother-in-law Li Zili, Second Sister Yan Jirong, and other close relatives all declined to attend, Yan Cheng's death, according to official internal reports.
2 月 5 日，鄢成死后的第 8 天，遗体停在殡仪馆。
On February 5, eight days after Yan Cheng's death, his body stopped at the funeral parlour.
在鄢小文和家长们没有做好心理准备之前，不会火化。
Yan Xiaowen and her parents are not ready to be cremated.
「鄢爸不会把孩子作为谈判的筹码，虽然穷，但他不图这钱。
"Yan Da does not use children as bargaining chips. He is poor, but he does not want the money.
」一位熟悉鄢小文的志愿者对「偶尔治愈」说。
"Yan Xiaowen, a volunteer familiar with the subject, said of the" occasional cure. "
「几天来，有很多人希望捐款给我家，但我一直坚持只接受心意，拒绝接受捐款。
"For a few days there have been a lot of people who want to give money to my family, but I've been so insistent that I accept it and refuse to give it.
」鄢小文于 2 月 4 日说。
Yan Xiaowen said on February 4.
鄢小文放弃了尸检。
Yan Xiaowen gave up the autopsy.
2 月 1 日晚，红安县政府让鄢小文写一份同意调解书，放弃尸检，鄢小文签了，没跟家长们商量。
On the night of February 1, Yan Xiao Wen was asked by the government of Hong'an to write a consent letter giving up the autopsy. Yan signed it without consulting his parents.
朱文沁不解，鄢小文说，他感觉到孩子在告诉他，活得那么痛苦，受了很多的苦，不愿意临死了还来个尸检。
Yu wondered, Yan Xiaowen said he felt the child telling him to live so painfully and painfully that he did not want to die and an autopsy.
朱文沁说，谁跟你说鄢成不愿意了？鄢小文说，你不懂我的意思。
"Who told you Yan Cheng didn't want to?" Yan Xiao Wen said, "You don't understand me."
「他犯了两回错」，朱文沁说。
"He made two mistakes," he said.
家有残障儿在关心鄢成的患儿家长中，那些天群聊里提到的最多的话是：如果这是我的孩子，怎么办？陈婧劼说，大家被一种悲伤的氛围笼罩着，至今也没有完全散去。
Feeling Invalids In those days when most of the parents of children with disabilities were concerned about Yan Cheng, what would happen if it were my childChen Jieren said that everyone was enveloped in a sad atmosphere and has not yet completely dispersed.
「中残联中精协都密切关注此事，爸爸是家长组织带头人，却挽救不了自己的孩子。
"CFDF Central Association is closely concerned about this matter, the father is the head of the parent organization, but can not save their own children.
家长在世尚且如此，家长走后呢？到底应该托付谁来做孩子的监护人？家长组织能否有力量？」姜英爽说。
If the parents are still alive, who should be entrusted to be the guardian of the child after the parents leave? Will the parents' organization have the strength? "said Jiang.
紧急情况会让残障人更加脆弱。
Emergencies increase the vulnerability of people with disabilities.
世界卫生组织等国际机构曾发布《残障与健康紧急风险管理》，统计数据显示，「3·11」日本地震和海啸之后，残障人的死亡率是非残障人的两倍。
The World Health Organization and other international organizations have published the Disability and Health Emergency Risk Management, which showed that the death rate of people with disabilities was twice as high as that of non-disabled people after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
家长们需要支持。
Parents need support.
2 月 2 日，北京晓更助残基金会联合各地心智障碍者的家长小组等发起「特殊需求困难家庭疫情期间紧急救助网络影响机制」，全国有超过 200 个社会组织共同参与，通过紧急网络补充覆盖各地行政区域网格，形成一个民间快速响应、就近陪伴、传递信息、向有关部门报告、持续跟进的救助机制。
On February 2, the Beijing Dawn Foundation for the Handicapped, in conjunction with parents' groups of people with mental disabilities from all over the country, launched the Emergency Relief Network Impact Mechanism for Families with Special Needs, involving more than 200 social organizations across the country.
戴榕是全国心智障碍者家长组织联盟的理事长，一个 19 岁自闭症孩子的母亲，她对媒体表示，在农村，可能还有类似事情发生的隐患。
Dai Yong, director of the National Union of Parents' Organizations of Persons with Mental Handicap and mother of a 19-year-old autistic child, told the media that there may be similar hidden dangers in the countryside.
这些家庭平时所面对的或许只是困难，但如果社会不重视的话，特殊的时期，困难也许就会放大为灾难。
These families may be faced with difficulties in the ordinary course of life, but if society does not take them seriously, special periods of time may magnify the difficulties into disasters.
「在肺炎这场大难来临时，障碍患儿及其家属、政府、公益组织的每一步行动，看似是紧凑的一组拳，每个套路动作严丝合缝，可在真空里，这组合拳全打在了棉花上。
"At the onset of pneumonia, every step of the children with disabilities, their families, the government and the public interest groups seems to be a tight set of fists. Each routine is carefully stitched together, but in the vacuum, the combination is all on cotton.
」朱文沁说，她看到了鄢家父子从武汉回到鄢家村后巨大的落差——一边是在线上全力寻找资源的家长们，一边是防疫工作急迫的农村，从家族、邻里，到医疗管理等支持体系出现全面的真空状态。
"Bentham said she saw a huge gap between the Yangs' return from Wuhan to Visayas - between parents struggling to find resources online and rural communities with acute epidemic prevention problems, and a general vacuum in support systems ranging from families and neighbourhoods to health care management.
鄢小文和家长们一直在努力着，把小儿子送到送到不那么危险的地方，「至少不能跟其他患者一起隔离」。
Yan and her parents have been trying to get their youngest son to a less dangerous place, "at least not in isolation from other patients."
2 月 4 日早 9 时，在隔离病房呆了 13 天后，鄢宏伟被送到一个相对安全的地方单独隔离。
On 4 February, at 9 a.m., after 13 days in the isolation ward, the Visayas were transported to a relatively secure location and isolated.
此前，没有多余床位，鄢宏伟和父亲挤一张床。
Prior to that, there were no extra beds for Visayas grand and his father squeezed into a bed.
白天，坐在父亲旁边的椅子上发呆、玩手指，晚上，就睡在父亲的脚头，「安安稳稳」。
During the day, sitting next to his father in a chair daze, play fingers, at night, on his feet, "safe and sound."
这让陈婧劼感慨，她说，把自闭症孩子放在一个封闭环境里，还能没有太大的情绪问题，生物钟没有紊乱等，不容易。
Chen Jieren lamented that putting an autistic child in a closed environment could not cause too much emotional problems, and her biological clock was not disturbed.
过去这一年，通过康复训练，鄢宏伟的沟通能力丰富了一些，以前被关在门外，他会使劲的捶门，现在，他会有耐心等着开门。
Over the past year, through rehabilitation training, the Visayas' magnificent communication skills have been enriched, he was locked out and he would slam on the door, and now he will have the patience to wait for the door to open.
「聊完我就得去炒菜了，今天还没吃第二顿饭。
"I've got to go stir-fry after the conversation. I haven't had a second meal today.
」2 月 2 日凌晨 0 时，朱文沁跟「偶尔治愈」说，1 月 23 日以后，她带着儿子再也没出过门，一直在居家隔离中。
"On February 2 at 0 a.m., Zhu told" Healing occasionally, "that after January 23, she and her son had never been out of the house and had been living in isolation.
只有那密密麻麻的通话记录、聊天记录，见证了她浮动的心思。
Only that dense telephone records, chat records, witnessed her floating mind.
「『蜗牛家园』目前没有经营收入，要算账的话，是亏损的。
"" snail's home "does not have operating income at present, to account for the words, is a loss.
我在想应该得有些收入给鄢爸，这样才对得起他。
I was thinking about getting some income for Yan Dad that was worthy of him.
」朱文沁预计，年后可能会有一个奶奶带着患病的孙女住进「蜗牛家园」，「老人家家里没钱，想让我们帮她一起带孩子，我们还在考虑中。
"We are still considering the possibility of a grandmother taking her sick granddaughter to a" snail's home "after the year," he said.
帮是要帮的，但是能帮的毕竟有限。
Bang is there to help, but there is a limit to what it can do.
」目前，「蜗牛家园」寄养了两个孩子，家长会给一点互助费，来作为伙食费用、水电开支等，「家长互助，在这里就图节约一点生活费」。
At present, the "Snail Home" has two children in its care. Parents will pay a small amount of mutual help to cover the cost of food, water and electricity, etc. "Parents can help each other by saving a little living here."
希望终究是得有的。
Hope it will come to pass.
「这个世界上不会只有一个鄢成，也不会只有我们这样一个家庭。
"There will not be only one Yansheng in the world, nor just a family like ours.
」2 月 4 日，鄢小文对「偶尔治愈」表示，他要以鄢成的名字建一个专项基金，主要用于帮助心智障碍孩子及其家庭，「蜗牛家园」将陪他一起做这些事。
"On February 4, Yan Xiaowen told Yan that he was setting up a special fund by Yan Cheng to help mentally handicapped children and their families.
首笔捐款5万元，来自I DO公益基金会，是一家珠宝企业旗下的。
The first donation of 50,000 yuan, from I DO public benefit foundation, is a jewelry enterprise under the banner.
「心智障碍群体的待遇和权利，都是用血和泪换回来的。
"The treatment and rights of the mentally handicapped are exchanged for blood and tears.
」朱文沁说。
"said Bentham.
按照原先约定，鄢小文在 2 月 8 日（元宵节）前就会回到武汉，回到他在「蜗牛家园」的岗位。
As originally agreed, Yan Xiao Wen will return to Wuhan by February 8 (Lantern Festival), returning to his job at the Snail Home.
可如今，谁也不知道，那时候他能不能康复出院。
Now, no one knows if he will ever recover and leave the hospital.
鄢小文本来计划着，等春天来了，鄢成的骨折好得差不多了，可以坐轮椅了，便推着孩子去久违的公园转转，樱花是武汉的特色，到了阳春三月，这座江城花团锦簇。
Yan Xiaowen planned that when spring came, Yan Cheng's bones were so good that she could use a wheelchair. She pushed her children around the long-lost park, which is Wuhan's special feature.
可如今盼头都落了空。
But now all hope has been lost.
在大儿子死去的当天深夜，鄢小文发了一条朋友圈说，「孩子啊，你笑容灿烂。
Late at night, Yan Xiaowen sends out a circle of friends and says, "Boy, you have a big smile.
在世，你的苦痛无边」。
Your pain is endless while you are alive. "
撰文：郑宇钧责任编辑：李珊珊排版：何跃图片由受访者提供—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
Writing: Zheng Yu-jun's Responsibility Editor: Li Shanshan's Resume Photo by Respondents - Our new book, Between Life and Death, publishes two-dimensional code that identifies the two-dimensional code in the image below - an occasional cure to illness, aging, and death - and occasionally helps and comforts.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
父亲被隔离 6 天后，疫情阴影下的残障少年之死。
Six days after his father was quarantined, the crippled teenager in the shadow of the outbreak died.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "父亲被隔离 6 天后，疫情阴影下的残障少年之死";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the shadow of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "孩子啊，你笑容灿烂。
var msg _ desc = & quot; kid, you have a big smile.
在世，你的苦痛无边";。
; [10: 40.51] Your pain is at once immense.
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
