确诊两天后去世，但官方没有他的名字：六个湖北女孩的封城日记。
He died two days after the diagnosis, but officials did not have his name: the diary of the six Hubei girls.
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
这几天因为新型冠状肺炎病毒，我恶补了一些相关书籍，再看网上真假难辨的信息，觉得阿尔贝‧加缪的《鼠疫》中说得很对：“我们每个人心里都有瘟疫，没有一个人，这世界上没有一个人是免除得了的。
Over the past few days, I have filled in some books about the new pneumonia virus. Looking at the hard-to-read information on the Internet, I think Albert Camus is right in his Plague: "We all have plagues in our hearts, no one in the world is immune.
能够对抗瘟疫的，就是正直。
He that can resist pestilence is uprightness.
”武汉人并不是病毒，他们只是倒霉版的你。
Wuhan people are not viruses, they are just the hapless version of you.
离开武汉的500万人中，固然有一部分是恐慌出逃的，但大部分是疫情程度被隐瞒时，正常的春节返乡、学生放假、候鸟老人去海南等平凡如你我的人。
Of the five million people who left Wuhan, some of them fled in panic, but most of them were ordinary people like you and me when the extent of the epidemic was concealed.
我们联系到了一些来自湖北的女孩，她们分享了这些天的经历，在这场突袭战中，她们冷静、勇敢而又温润、善良，比起病毒，更让她们难受的，是网络上对武汉人的谩骂。
We contacted some girls from Hubei, who shared their experiences of these days. During the raid, they were calm, brave, warm and kind. What made them miserable was the abuse of Wuhan people on the Internet.
今天，我想对每一个勇敢女孩说，天亮之前，有一个时间是非常暗的，星也没有，月亮也没有，但天一亮，阳光就会照进来。
Today, I want to say to every brave girl, before dawn, there is a very dark time, no stars, no moon, but the sun will come in at dawn.
我们坚信，寒冬即将过去，阳光很快就会到来，这是自然界不变的规律。
We firmly believe that the cold winter will soon pass and the sun will come soon, which is the invariable law of nature.
▌我家里一个亲戚，确诊两天后去世了大家可以叫我口罩，因为最近真的快被口罩给逼崩溃了。
A relative of mine died two days after diagnosis and you can call me a mask, because recently it really nearly collapsed by the mask.
我家就在武汉蔡甸区，也就是「火神山」医院的所在地，离医院大概就17分钟的车程。
My home is in the Cai Den district of Wuhan, which is the location of "Flaming Mountain" Hospital, about 17 minutes away from the hospital.
△今天是武汉火神山医院施工的第4天。
Today is the 4th day of the construction of Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital.
这张照片，是1月26日中午1点左右施工现场航拍图。
This photograph, is January 26 around 1: 00 noon construction site aerial map.
火神山医院预计2月2日整体移交军方管理，预计床位700到1000张。
Mount Fukuyama Hospital is expected to be under full military administration on February 2, with an estimated 700 to 1,000 beds.
我是在元旦前一天，看到政府通知，说有人感染不明原因的肺炎。
I saw a government notice the day before New Year's Day that someone had contracted pneumonia for unknown reasons.
当时并没有感觉到情况有多严重。
There was no sense of how serious the situation was.
直到钟南山院士说，肺炎会人传人，我开始变得非常焦虑。
Until academician Zhong Nan Shan said, pneumonia will pass from person to person, I began to become very anxious.
就在前一天，我在地铁里戴口罩，还感觉自己像个奇葩。
Just the day before, I was wearing a mask in the subway and I felt like a wonderful flower.
第二天，武汉的氛围急转直下。
The next day, the atmosphere in Wuhan fell sharply.
地铁里的情况完全不一样了，都戴上了口罩。
Things are totally different in the subway. They all wear masks.
我焦虑主要是因为家里开店，一直有人进出，我在店里帮忙，心里特别慌。
My anxiety was mainly due to the opening of a store and the constant flow of people in and out of it.
我早就劝我爸关店，就是不听。
I told my dad to close the shop, but he wouldn't listen.
劝长辈戴口罩，一开始他们也不听，很烦心。
Advise elders to wear masks, at first they do not listen, very upset.
后来知道有个经常来店里的人，咳嗽发烧，去医院了。
Later I learned that someone who came to the shop often had a cough and a fever and went to the hospital.
吓得我半夜去买了84消毒液，把店里里里外外全消毒完。
Scared me to buy 84 disinfectant in the middle of the night, disinfect inside and outside the store completely.
做完这些，我跟我爸说了，他估计是怕了，才决定关门歇业。
After doing this, I told my dad that he was afraid and decided to close the door.
那天已经是1月23号，就是封城的当天。
It was the 23rd of January, the day the city was closed.
当天上午10点，武汉封城消息出来，我心态就崩溃了。
The morning of 10: 00, Wuhan sealed the news out, my mentality will collapse.
就是止不住刷手机看微博，更新疫情信息，越看越焦虑。
Is unable to stop the mobile phone to see Weibo, update the epidemic information, more and more anxious.
觉得看谁都是病原体，都带着病毒。
Thought everyone was the pathogen, and they were carrying the virus.
只要不刷微博，就感觉还好，不会很焦虑。
As long as brushless micro-blog, it will feel good, will not be very anxious.
口罩、消毒液、体温计什么的，都是我自己买。
I buy my own masks, disinfectants, thermometers, etc.
之前在京东上抢了两箱，N95的，一共50个。
I stole two cases of N95 on Jingdong, 50 in all.
超市里和便利店也有一点，但总觉得不够。
Supermarkets and convenience stores also have a point, but they don't always feel enough.
便利店口罩的价格，涨到了平时的三倍。
Convenience-store masks cost three times as much as usual.
平时5块一个，现在15块一个。
It's five bucks a day. Now it's 15 bucks a day.
当时营业员说价格的时候，旁边送货的都惊了，说了句，这么贵。
When the salesperson said the price, the side of the delivery are surprised, said a sentence, so expensive.
这些天最让我难过的，其实不是病毒，是微博针对武汉人的评论，真的太难听了。
What saddens me the most these days is not the virus, but the comments of Weibo directed at Wuhan people, which is really terrible.
大家不知道，封城那天，我六点多出门购物，准备囤些食物。
You don't know, that day, I went shopping at six o'clock, ready to hoard some food.
那么大的一个城市，就像电影里的镜头一样，空寂无人，像个死城。
So big a city, like the lens of the film, empty, like a dead city.
他们怎么能骂武汉人？我们也是受害者。
How can they scold Wuhan people? We are also victims.
△23号封城当天，凌晨6点的武汉蔡甸开发区政府说封城就封城，什么应急措施都没有做，很多人都买好了回家的票了，可第二天一醒，发现根本回不去了。
On the same day, the city was sealed off at 6: 00 a.m. by the Tsai dian Development Zone in Wuhan. No emergency measures were taken. Many people bought tickets to go home.
整个武汉的氛围都蛮让人致郁。
The whole atmosphere in Wuhan is quite depressing.
发现「小汤山」医院要在我家这里建的时候，一开始还以为是假的……因为这个位置附近真的还有很多居民区。
When I found out that Xiaotangshan Hospital was going to be built here in my house, I thought it was fake at first... because there were really a lot of residential areas around here.
我附近的同学也都很恐慌。
My classmates in the neighborhood are scared too.
但奇怪的是，对这个选址，微博上一片祥和。
Curiously, however, there was peace on the site.
这时候除了害怕，更多是无奈。
At this time in addition to fear, more is helpless.
除夕晚上，家里人聚餐，我没去，不想去。
New Year's Eve, the family dinner, I did not go, do not want to go.
我总感觉自己被感染了，什么都提不起兴趣。
I always feel like I'm infected and I don't take an interest in anything.
每天就是跟同学聊天看电视，饭也不想吃。
Every day is to chat with students watching TV, meals do not want to eat.
再后来，我爸告诉我家里一个亲戚走了。
Later, my father told me that a relative of mine had left.
说他医院确诊后回家了，两天后就去世了。
Said he went home after his hospital diagnosis and died two days later.
他六十多岁，家就在「华南海鲜市场」附近。
He is in his sixties and lives near the South China Seafood Market.
去世时打了120，但120没来。
I called 120 when I died, but 120 didn't show up.
他就在自己家里去世的。
He died in his own house.
家里人说「烧了」，应该是送去火化了。
The family said "burned", should be sent to cremation.
之后葬礼都没办。
There was no funeral.
他的家人还在自己家隔离。
His family is still isolated in his own home.
我去查当天的疫情通报的信息，没有这个人。
I'm going to check information about the outbreak that day. There's no one here.
应该是在医院死亡的人，才计入统计。
A person who should have died in a hospital is counted.
所以他根本没有被算进去。
So he wasn't even counted.
这场病注定要载入史册的，被它感染死的病患却没有被记录，也没有人为他送行，想到这里我觉得很难受。
The disease is destined to go down in history, and it pains me to think that its victims have not been recorded and that no one has seen him off.
我现在正在读研究生，希望能活到下个学期……▌我妈朋友的孩子初六婚礼，取消了我叫欣欣，老家湖北黄石，一直在北京工作， 计划是22号飞回武汉。
I am now studying for graduate school and hope to live to next semester... to take care of my mother's friend's children to get married on the sixth day of my marriage, cancelled my name is Xinxin, my hometown Huangshi, and has been working in Beijing.
我是在一月初的时候，就知道新型病毒的事，以前也有过鸡、猪的流感，所以这次也只觉得是一般的小问题。
I knew about the new virus in early January, and I've had chicken and pig flu before, so this time it was just a minor problem.
真正发现情况严重是21号从崇礼滑雪回来，路上高铁地铁全是戴口罩的，新闻也比之前更频繁更严重，晚上跟我妈视频，说明天不想回家了，事情发展的太迅速。
It turned out to be serious when No. 21 came back from a ski trip, the subway was covered in masks, the news was more frequent and more serious than before, and my mom had a video at night saying that he didn't want to go home tomorrow, and things were going too fast.
△ 人民日报，黄石客运停运的报道我妈还是比较理解，前面说行，但又不停跟我说，准备了好多吃的，每五分钟又弹个视频，说还是回吧，路上做好防护，因为是过年，我想想于心不忍，还是答应了。
People's Daily, Huang Shi report that my mother still understand, but not stop to tell me, prepared a lot of food, every five minutes and play a video, said or back, the way to do a good defense, because it is the Spring Festival, I think I can not bear to agree.
没想到，第二天一到登机口，全是全副武装的人。
Unexpectedly, the next day arrived at the gate, all heavily armed people.
出口的时候有红外线的排查，对着脑门测体温。
There is infrared screening at the exit, and the temperature is taken at the forehead.
我忐忑不安回到家后，听到武汉要封城的消息，就知道已经很严重了。
When I returned home with so much trepidation, I heard that Wuhan was going to seal the city and knew it was already very serious.
白天约的朋友局，到晚上已经没人再提这事了。
The friends of the day, no one said anything about it by night.
1月24号早晨，黄石所有公交，大桥，高速要停运，好在高铁还没封，当时我还想着赶紧走，买了初二下午黄石到北京的动车（我到北京肯定会自行隔离的），下午就看到新闻，黄石火车站也关闭了。
January 24 morning, Yellowstone all public transport, bridges, high-speed to stop operation, but the high-speed rail is still sealed, I also want to hurry to buy the afternoon of the second day of Huang Shi to Beijing (I will certainly isolate myself to Beijing), afternoon news, Yellowstone railway station closed.
随后，武汉“封城”，所有的交通工具都关闭了，我也彻底死心了，就想着既来之则安之。
Subsequently, Wuhan "closed the city," all the means of transport were closed, I also completely dedicated, think of the future will be safe.
还得在家呆至少半月，带的衣服回来穿不上，护肤品根本不够用了。
Still have to stay at home for at least half a month, bring back clothes can not wear, skin care products are not enough.
△ 宅在家里的我也没法买，好多大超市已经通知关闭，也没说开的日子，没有公交和出租车，一切出行都是能用脚到了的地方。
I can't buy the promenade at home. Many big supermarkets have been notified to close down, and no buses or taxis are available.
我们家那些私人水果小超市有些还开着，但是都没人，只有药店哗啦啦不停进人，估计很多都是看了新闻去买口罩了。
Some of our private fruit supermarkets are open, but none of them are open except for drugstore clatter, most of which are probably watching the news to buy masks.
我妈朋友的孩子初六结婚，我妈还跟我讨论要不要去，我说肯定会取消的，结果真取消了。
My mother's friend's child got married on the sixth day of junior high, and my mother talked with me about whether to go or not. I said it would be canceled.
每天看着新闻我都觉得上头，数着我从北京回来的日子过，感觉自己也在隔离期。
Every day looking at the news I feel head over heels, counting my days back from Beijing, feeling like I'm in isolation.
好好的春节过的这般糟心，不知道何时解封。
Have a good Spring Festival so bad, do not know when to unpack.
还想回北京去滑雪，昨儿看见南山雪场发不接湖北籍的消息，心凉凉啊。
Also want to go back to Beijing to ski, last night saw the Nanshan snow field does not take Hubei nationality news, cool heart ah.
▌我囤了一千个口罩，化好妆准备打120我住在武汉柏泉，年三十，离汉通道都已经关了，但是柏泉的年味依然很浓，也就是说，还没有什么人戴口罩。
I have a thousand masks, make-up ready to call 120 I live in Wuhan cypress spring, 30 years old, the Han corridor has been closed, but the cypress smell is still very strong, that is, no one wearing masks.
但我早已经在家屯了一千多个口罩，和一年份的食粮储备。
But I've been collecting more than a thousand masks and a year's supply of food at home.
菜市场早就开始查封消毒，但是中百超市还能买到很多蔬菜，一次多屯一点，也不用担心维生素的问题。
The Hallmark market has long closed down disinfection, but the 100 supermarkets can still buy a lot of vegetables, at a time, do not have to worry about vitamin problems.
△ 我囤的物资这中间还有谣言说大白菜卖到5块一斤，害我赶紧跑出去看了一眼，发现根本就是假消息。
Between all this stuff, I have rumors that Chinese cabbages are selling for five yuan a catty, so I ran out for a quick look and found it was false information.
这些造谣传谣的人太可恶了，之前还有说中部战区空军要播撒消毒粉之类的，一到这种时候，谣言似乎就止不住地被制造出来，唉。
These rumors are hateful people, and there was talk of a central war zone air force sowing disinfectant powder, and when that happens, rumors seem to be building up, alas.
现在不看那些谣言，真实情况也已经很严重了，武汉学校也推迟开学了。
Now ignore those rumors, the real situation has also been very serious, Wuhan schools also delayed the start of school.
我本身是一家艺术培训学校的校长，我给老师们也都无限延长了假期，看什么时候疫情减弱再开始上班吧。
I myself am the principal of an art training school, and I have given my teachers unlimited holidays to see when the epidemic subsides before starting work.
今年学校还有两个老师要结婚，我一月初就感觉不太对，让他们早些回去了。
There are two more teachers going to get married this year. I didn't feel quite right at the beginning of January.
他们家也是武汉的，在蔡甸，婚期定在大年二十九，那会都已经封城了，全市都在戒严，但是他们家人竟然在蔡甸兴高采烈地举行了婚礼！新郎和新娘都没去参加，只有两家家人去了，说看好了日子，搭了棚子，酒席也请了厨师，干脆当年夜饭。
Their family is also Wuhan, in Cai dian, the wedding date is about 29 years old, it will be closed, the whole city is under martial law, but their families even held a happy wedding in Cai dian!
我知道之后气坏了，直接把他们的家人一通批评，现在这种情况还敢聚会，新郎新娘怎么想？你们开心，他们落寞？我在年二九那天也发了低烧，37°1，当时要求37°3以上的病人到指定医院就诊，我洗了头发，化了妆，打算如果再高一点就打120。
When I learned that I was angry and criticized their families directly, what do you think of the bride and bridegroom? You are happy, they are lonely? I had a low fever on September 29th, when I asked more than 37 ° 3 patients to go to designated hospitals.
还好后来没有再发展，我按照协和医院出的《协和解决方案》的医疗建议吃了药，没过几天就好了，应该只是呼吸道感染。
Thankfully, I didn't develop it again. I took the medicine in accordance with the Concorde Solution's medical advice. It wasn't until a few days later it was due to a respiratory infection.
其实现在也有点怕去医院，万一交叉感染，还不如不去呢。
In fact, now also a little afraid to go to the hospital, in case of cross-infection, rather than not it.
这中间还有个小插曲，我病了之后，一直让我男朋友戴口罩，他死活不戴，气得我直接下楼买了个菜，要不是出了趟门，没准还能早两天退烧。
There was another incident. After I got sick, I kept my boyfriend wearing a mask. He was so angry that I went downstairs and bought a dish. If I hadn't gone out, I would have had a fever two days earlier.
我跟男朋友妈妈说好了，要是家里再有谁生病，他还不戴口罩，就给他撵出去，不让进家门。
I agreed with my boyfriend's mother that if anyone in the house fell ill and he didn't wear a mask, he would be turned out of the house.
▌没有蔬菜，一包辣条每天吃三根，省着点我是一家康复医院的康复训练师，一个人在武汉，住的地方距离发病的海鲜市场只有1.1公里，根本都不敢出门。
I'm a rehabilitation trainer at a rehabilitation hospital. I live in Wuhan, only 1.1 kilometers from the diseased seafood market, and I don't dare to go out.
我还算知道消息比较早的，在家里屯了一些口粮，最近能不出去就不出去，而且这附近的超市每天都哄抢一空，我估计我也抢不上。
I knew it was early, that I had some rations at home, that I could not go out lately, and that the supermarkets around here were empty every day, and I guess I couldn't get them.
滑动查看更多图片整件事情我最不明白的就是，为什么要瞒报病情？我的一个合作医生就是协和的骨科主任，协和人员不够用，他被安排去一线了，那会才十二月中旬。
One of my co-op doctors was Concorde's orthopaedic director, and the Concorde was short of staff, and he was sent to the front line, just in mid-December.
你知道协和有多大吗？十二月中旬医护人员就不够用了，可想而知病情严重到了什么程度。
Do you know how old Concorde is? By mid-December, the medical staff was short of staff and it was conceivable how serious the illness would be.
而且十二月中旬就已经知道了可以人传人，有医护人员被感染，也知道发热不是唯一确定的标准了，当时协和就有确诊的肺炎病人并没有发热，但是这一切都在被隐瞒。
And by mid-December, we knew that there was a human-to-human transmission of the disease, that fever was not the only established standard, and that Concorde had a confirmed pneumonia patient who had no fever at the time, but it was being concealed.
不光普通市民，一线医护人员也被隐瞒，被强制谈话，不准说。
Not only ordinary citizens, but also front-line medical personnel were concealed, forced to talk, not allowed to say.
结果12月31号，江汉路七八万人，人挤人在倒计时跨年。
Results On December 31, there were 780,000 people on Jianghan Road.
现在这种情况，作为普通人已经完全帮不上什么忙了，唯一能做的就是呆在家里，不要出门。
Now, as ordinary people have no help at all, the only thing to do is to stay at home, do not go out.
网购也早已经停了，没有人来送东西，医护物资走的都是绿色通道。
Online shopping has also stopped, no one to deliver things, medical supplies are going through the green channel.
现在外面天天都是救护车的声音，除了在医院门口排队的，街上几乎少有行人了。
Ambulances are now heard outside every day, and there are few pedestrians on the streets except for the queues outside the hospital gates.
我现在每天睡到中午，这样一天可以只吃两顿饭，没有蔬菜，维生素就靠膳食补充剂顶着，还能再管个两周。
I now sleep until noon so that I can eat only two meals a day without vegetables, vitamins on dietary supplements for another two weeks.
零食没有了，只剩一包辣条，昨天吃了三根，打算一天最多吃三根，省着点吃。
Snack is gone, only a bag of spicy sticks, ate three yesterday, planning to eat up to three a day, save some food.
▌除夕夜，我独自点了个麦当劳，汉堡难吃，春晚更难看我是21号中午临时决定不回去的，当时钟南山已经到了武汉，在新闻媒体公开建议大家别去武汉。
On Chinese New Year's Eve, I ordered a McDonald's alone, hamburger bad, even worse Chunwan I decided not to go back at noon on the 21st, when Zhong Nan Shan has arrived in Wuhan, the news media openly advised us not to go to Wuhan.
而且武汉已经开始检查体温，只要有发热症状，就不让离开。
Wuhan has also begun to check body temperature, as long as there are fever symptoms, will not leave.
我家在湖北荆州市公安县，离武汉高铁只有2小时。
My home in Jingzhou City, Hubei Province, only two hours away from Wuhan high-speed rail.
北京到荆州的车次很少，我回家的话必须经过武汉，或者到武汉转车。
There are few trains from Beijing to Jingzhou. If I go home, I must go by Wuhan or change trains to Wuhan.
而武汉当时是最危险的地方，我记得几乎全国所有已发病的，都是从武汉来的，我很担心带来麻烦。
Wuhan was the most dangerous place at that time, I remember almost all of the country has the disease, are from Wuhan, I am very worried about the trouble.
湖北冬天比较冷，又没有暖气，我又是那种体质比较弱的，每次回家都要感冒。
Hubei winter is colder, and no heating, I am the kind of physical weakness, every time I go home to catch a cold.
我怕万一有个感冒发烧的，免疫力降低，说不定就中招了，即使没中招，也肯定比较麻烦，所以就动了不回家的念头，打算五一再回家看他们。
I am afraid that in the event of a cold and fever, immunity may be reduced, even if it did not win, will certainly be more troublesome, so moved not to go home, the intention of May Day again to see them.
我中午的时候，试探着跟我妈提了一下，她说让我自己做决定。
At noon, I was tempted to mention it to my mother, and she said I had to make my own decision.
22号凌晨1点多，我终于下定决心不回家，通知了她。
It was after 1 a.m. on the 22nd that I finally decided not to go home and let her know.
△ 22号凌晨，我决定不回家在这之前，我只抢到一张北京到武汉的硬座，全程11个小时，高铁一票难求。
In the early hours of the 22nd, I decided not to go home. Before that, I only got a hard seat from Beijing to Wuhan.
21号晚上8点多，突然多了很多北京到汉口（就是武汉疫情发源地）的高铁票，这些票直到第二天都没卖完，一直显示二等座都是99+。
At 8 p. m. on the 21st, there were suddenly many more high-speed rail tickets from Beijing to Hankou, the birthplace of Wuhan, which remained unsold until the next day, showing that the second-class seats were 99 +.
我刚开始以为自己是个幸运儿，迅速下单抢票，感觉特别开心，还激动的截图发了朋友圈。
I just began to think I was a lucky guy, quickly order tickets, feel particularly happy, but also excited screenshots of friends.
结果第二天我感觉不太对劲，这票怎么还没卖完？都没有人抢的吗？因为这票时间特别好，北京上午9点半发车，下午3点到汉口。
But the next day I didn't feel quite myself. Why wasn't the ticket sold out? Did anyone take it? Because it was a very good time. Beijing started at 9: 30 a.m. and arrived at Hankou at 3 p.m.
时间非常好的一趟车却没人抢，就感觉非常奇怪，我发现事情好像没那么简单，天上怎么可能掉馅饼给我呢？而且抢票中间，因为汉口是疫情发源地的原因，我还退了一次票，想换到武汉中转，结果发现退票已经不收手续费了。
I found it was not so easy, how could I have dropped the pie in the sky, and because Hankou was the source of the outbreak, I returned a ticket to Wuhan and found that there was no service charge for the refund.
我又上网看了看相关的新闻，发现事情好像越来越严重了，于是决定留在北京过年。
I looked over the internet to see the related news and found it seemed to be getting worse, so I decided to stay in Beijing for the New Year.
刚开始的时候，我家里人还不是很重视这个事，觉得大惊小怪。
At first, my family did not attach much importance to this matter, and found it a fuss.
我提醒他们戴口罩，劝他们春节不出门，我妈一直都很敷衍。
I reminded them to wear masks and advised them not to go out for Spring Festival. My mother was always perfunctory.
嘴上答应着不出门，转眼家族群里就发了她和亲戚们出门的消息。
Mouth on the promise not to go out, the family immediately sent her and relatives out of the news.
直到23号武汉开始封城，他们才意识到严重性，跟我说，幸好我没回来。
It was not until Wuhan on the 23rd that they realized the seriousness of the situation and told me that fortunately I had not come back.
△ 主动给我发消息的我妈，思想觉悟提高不少这几天荆州也开始封城，公务员挨家挨户入户调查登记，电话访问，娱乐场所也被关闭，大家都彻底在家歇着了。
In recent days Jingzhou has also been closed down. Public servants have been checking in door-to-door, telephone interviews, entertainment venues have been closed and everyone has been completely at home.
我记得我们县城封锁的前一天下午，我大舅带着表弟表妹去上坟，给先祖点长夜灯，按照我们那边传统，除夕本来家里亲戚们都去的，但这次只有他们几个人去了。
I remember the afternoon before the blockade of our county seat, my uncle and my cousin went to the grave with my cousin to order a long night light for our ancestors. According to our tradition, relatives all went there on New Year's Eve, but only a few of them went.
舅舅回来后专门在家族群里点名说：XXX，XXX，XXX这些人都是孝子贤孙，其他人你们就只能蜗居在家祈祷列祖列宗的保佑吧。
Uncle came back to the family specifically named: XXX, XXX, XXX these people are filial children and grandchildren, the rest of you can only stay at home and pray for the blessing of the Lezuli.
△ 我们的家族群放假前，我屯了一大堆吃的，速冻水饺，馄饨，蔬菜水果零食，还有5斤大米，做好了在家闭关的准备。
Before our family vacation, I had a big meal of frozen dumplings, wonton soup, vegetable and fruit snacks, and five kilos of rice, ready to be closed at home.
但后来我发现外卖一直都有，一个人也懒得做了。
But then I found out that takeout was always there, and no one bothered to do it.
除夕那天晚上，我定了个麦当劳，边吃边看春晚刷微博和朋友圈。
On New Year's Eve, I ordered a McDonald's to eat and watch the Spring Festival Gala brush Weibo and friends circle.
汉堡难吃的要死，热闹的春晚看的我很难受。
Burger is horrible to eat, lively Spring Festival gala I am very uncomfortable.
这两天我无时无刻不在关注家乡的信息，朋友圈分享了无数疫情的消息，我只希望一觉睡醒，看到的是好消息。
These two days I have been paying attention to the home of information, friends have shared the news of numerous outbreaks, I just hope to wake up to see the good news.
滑动查看更多图片▌帮肝硬化的妈妈买药，穿得像要打丧尸我叫佳佳，武汉人，现在正在武汉读研究生。
My name is Jia Jia, from Wuhan, now studying in Wuhan. My name is Jia Jia, and I am studying in Wuhan now.
1月1号那天知道的疫情，到现在心态还比较好。
January 1 to know the epidemic, until now the state of mind is still relatively good.
之前为了招待客人买了很多食物，现在客人来不了，家里物资很充足，一个月没问题。
I bought a lot of food for the guests before, but now the guests can not come, the home supplies are very adequate, a month no problem.
我们民众的物资其实还好，起码我家和亲戚朋友都囤够了东西，而且超市是营业的。
Our people's goods are actually okay, at least my family and friends have enough hoard, and the supermarket is open.
但我没有进去，不知道里面货品怎么样。
But I didn't go in. I don't know what's in there.
我觉得我算幸运的，一是因为周边其它城市集中力量到武汉来了。
I think I am lucky, one is because other neighboring cities have concentrated their efforts on Wuhan.
二是因为家在武汉，本身为了过年准备了很多东西，不愁吃喝，不愁基本的消毒物品。
Second, because the home in Wuhan, in order to prepare many things for the New Year, do not worry about eating and drinking, do not worry about basic disinfection items.
不过相对应的，湖北其它城市会比较惨——医疗条件不如武汉，但是可能感染的人数并不少，还得派医疗支援到武汉来。
However, the other cities in Hubei will be more miserable - medical conditions are not as good as Wuhan, but the number of possible infections, will have to send medical support to Wuhan.
还有，那些家在外地被迫留在武汉的人，租房子没有冰箱的，我真的不知道他们怎么过。
Also, those families forced to stay in Wuhan, rent a house without refrigerator, I really do not know how they live.
25号，我迫不得已出门了一趟。
Twenty-five, I was obliged to go out.
因为我妈妈有肝硬化，需要每天吃药，一天都不能停，我需要帮她买药。
Because my mother has cirrhosis of the liver, need to take medicine every day, can not stop all day, I need to help her buy medicine.
根本不敢去医院了，只能去药店买。
Dare not go to the hospital, can only go to the drugstore to buy.
我出门时，妈妈有点担心，但是我不可能不去，只好将防护做到极致。
My mother was a little worried when I went out, but I couldn't get away from it, so I had to do the best I could.
大家看，为了出门，我穿成了这样：我家在远城区，比较偏。
You see, in order to go out, I dressed like this: my home in the far city, more partial.
到街上一看，发现整个街上所有店都关了，车也没有，人也没有，那样子挺瘆人的，就是恐怖电影才有的画面。
A look at the street, found the whole street all the shops are closed, no cars, no people, that kind of Shen people, is a horror film has the screen.
我开了半个小时左右，才找到一家开着的药店。
It took me about half an hour to find an open drugstore.
因为价格比较贵，没有买太多，但还是囤了一个半月的量，不知道这样出不了门的状况要持续多久。
Because the price is more expensive, did not buy too much, but still hoard a month and a half of the volume, I do not know how long this can not go out of the state.
幸好那天去买了，第二天武汉所有机动车都禁行了。
Fortunately that day to buy, the next day Wuhan all motor vehicles are banned.
我顺利回家后，妈妈很开心，能顺利找到药店不容易，我们里里外外用酒精消毒了，觉得还好，没有什么特别的。
When I got home smoothly, my mother was very happy. It was not easy to find the drugstore. We disinfected it with alcohol inside and outside.
这次疫情还有个特殊的情况，就是谣言特别多，对社会影响很不好。
The epidemic also has a special case, is that rumors are particularly numerous, the social impact is very bad.
我的专业是传播学，有一门课的论文主题我就选的是「谣言」。
I majored in communications, and in one course I chose "rumors" for my thesis topic.
我准备把这次的谣言传播现象，列入研究计划。
I'm going to put this rumor-mongering phenomenon on the research agenda.
我会跟非典时的谣言现象做对比，好好研究一下。
I will compare it to the SARS rumor phenomenon and study it carefully.
△ 疫情爆发过程中，不断有谣言出来添乱，造成非常不好的社会影响 / 腾讯新闻「较真」辟谣平台为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
[/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color]
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
确诊两天后去世，但官方没有他的名字：六个湖北女孩的封城日记。
He died two days after the diagnosis, but officials did not have his name: the diary of the six Hubei girls.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girls.
var msg_title = "确诊两天后去世，但官方没有他的名字：六个湖北女孩的封城日记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; died two days after his diagnosis, but the authorities don't have his name: Six Hubei girls' diary & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "发烧后，我决定化好妆再打120。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; with a fever, I decided to make up and call 120 again.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girl.
