​荆州第一例危重症新冠患者的生死十六天。
The first case of critical new crown patient in Jingzhou died 16 days.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
他还把手机放在枕边，循环播放歌手阿杜的《坚持到底》，像是一种隐喻和鼓励。
He also kept his cell phone by his pillow and played the singer Freddy's "Stay the course" as a metaphor and encouragement.
仰睡会呼吸吃力，还可能因加剧咳嗽窒息昏迷，干脆全程侧卧，靠毅力去控制呼吸的节奏。
Inclined sleep can be breathless, may also be aggravated by coughing asphyxiation coma, simply lie on the side, rely on perseverance to control the rhythm of breathing.
1月31日，李振东出院前与医护人员合影。
On January 31, Li Zhendong was photographed with medical staff before being discharged from hospital.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者沈彤 杜雯雯编辑｜陈晓舒校对| 吴兴发►本文约3210字，阅读全文约需6分钟在湖北省荆州市胸科医院一间不足十平方米的隔离病房里，37岁的李振东与一些“无声的战友”为伴。
The interviewee, aged 37, accompanied by some "silent comrades-in-arms" at Jingzhou Chest Hospital in Hubei province, takes about six minutes to read the full text, about 3210 words, in an isolation ward of less than 10 square meters at Jingzhou Chest Hospital in Hubei Province.
消毒机、心电监护仪、呼吸机全天候运作，支撑着他半个月以来的日与夜。
The disinfector, the electrocardiograph, the ventilator all-weather operation, supported him for half a month day and night.
他是这座559万人口的城市里第一例确诊的危重型患者。
He is the first confirmed critical case in a city of 5.59 million people.
情况最糟糕的时候，一度陷入昏迷状态，濒临死亡。
At its worst, he was once in a coma and dying.
那一刻，他心里只有一个念头：活下去。
At that moment there was only one thought in his mind: to live.
强烈的求生欲最终助他挺过难关。
A strong desire to survive eventually helped him tide over the difficulties.
2月14日的情人节，是他结束自我隔离的第一天，他终于可以走出房间，拥抱家人。
On February 14, Valentine's Day, his first day of isolation, he was finally able to walk out of his room and hug his family.
“欺软怕硬“的病毒这是李振东37年人生中居家时间最长的一次。
"Bullying the hard" virus This is Li Zhendong 37 years of life of the longest stay at home.
他被隔离在家里的房间中。
He was isolated in his home room.
每天早上，会在六点钟起床，做一些舒展运动，身体尚未恢复，他只能将四肢轻微的摇摆。
Every morning, he would get up at six o'clock, do some relaxation exercises, the body has not yet recovered, he can only swing his limbs slightly.
到了饭点，家人便把饭菜放在客厅，敲门提醒李振东来吃。
When it was time for dinner, the family left the meal in the living room and knocked at the door to remind Li Zhendong to eat.
午睡后醒来的时间里，他便窝在房间看看电视、听听新闻广播，有时候也会看书，学习一下跟业务相关的知识。
When he wakes up after a nap, he sleeps in his room watching TV, listening to the news, sometimes reading a book and learning something about business.
晚上九点，便准时入睡。
He goes to bed at nine in the evening.
作为一个初愈者，李振东清晰记得自己是如何从新型冠状病毒手中捡回这条命。
As an early caller, Li Zhendong clearly remembered how he recovered his life from the new coronavirus.
李振东在家里做舒展运动。
Li Zhendong does relaxation exercises at home.
受访者供图1月16日，住进医院的第二天，李振东的体温不断攀升，这是身体的免疫系统在与病毒交战的信号。
The interviewee reported that on January 16, the day after he was admitted to the hospital, Li Zhendong had a rising temperature, a sign that the body's immune system was at war with the virus.
最开始体温徘徊在38.5℃左右，到了凌晨三点，陡升到40℃。
Temperatures hovered around 38.5 degrees Celsius at first, then steeped to 40 degrees Celsius at 3 a. m.
李振东的新冠肺炎诱发先天性哮喘、合并真菌感染等基础性疾病，身体疼痛伴随意识减弱，甚至出现了呼吸衰竭的症状。
Li Zhendong's new crown pneumonia induced congenital asthma, fungal infections and other basic diseases, physical pain accompanied by reduced awareness, and even respiratory failure symptoms.
“难道就这样结束生命了吗？”那时他想。
"Is this the end of life?" he thought.
医生护士紧急赶来处理。
The doctor and nurse rushed to deal with it.
抗病毒药物、消炎药、激素、免疫球蛋白，能用上的全用上了。
Antiviral drugs, anti-inflammatory drugs, hormones, immunoglobulins, can be used on all.
他的主治医生，荆州市胸科医院的副主任医师李继华也一度束手无策：“没有特效药，能否挺过来主要靠病人的意志力。
Li Jihua, his attending physician and deputy chief physician at Jingzhou Chest Hospital, was at a loss: "Without specific drugs, it is mainly the patient's willpower that will see him through.
”院方下达了病危通知，李振东命悬一线。
"The hospital issued a notice of critical illness, Li Zhendong life hanging.
高烧不退的日子里，他从早到晚都被只能躺在病床上，打针、输液，吃喝拉撒都在床上解决。
During his feverish days, he was confined to his bed from morning to night, receiving injections, infusions, and drinking and drinking.
每个深夜，都是他病发的高峰期，“烧得最难受的时候，眼泪会不自觉地流。
Every night, it is the peak of his illness, "burning the worst time, tears will flow involuntarily.
”病人能做的不多，保证休息和营养摄入，是提高免疫力、对抗病毒的唯一办法。
Patients can do little, and ensuring rest and nutritional intake is the only way to boost immunity and fight the virus.
护士按照李振东的喜好打来饭菜，有时候是青椒肉丝，有时候是蒸鱼，还有番茄蛋汤、冬瓜汤。
Nurses like to eat according to Li Zhendong, sometimes green pepper meat, sometimes steamed fish, and tomato egg soup, winter melon soup.
没有食欲也要硬吃，护士帮他把米饭用汤泡软，一口一口咽下去。
No appetite to eat hard, the nurse helped him with the rice with soup soft, mouthful swallow down.
他还把手机放在枕边，循环播放歌手阿杜的《坚持到底》，像是一种隐喻和鼓励。
He also kept his cell phone by his pillow and played the singer Freddy's "Stay the course" as a metaphor and encouragement.
仰睡会呼吸吃力，还可能因加剧咳嗽窒息昏迷，干脆全程侧卧，靠毅力去控制呼吸的节奏。
Inclined sleep can be breathless, may also be aggravated by coughing asphyxiation coma, simply lie on the side, rely on perseverance to control the rhythm of breathing.
在长达8天的抗争后，李振东终于退烧，完成自救。
After 8 days of struggle, Li Zhendong finally reduced fever and completed self-help.
截至2月14日，湖北省荆州市累计报告新冠肺炎1447例，治愈158例，死亡23例。
As of February 14, 1,447 cases of Xinguan pneumonia had been reported in Jingzhou, Hubei Province, 158 cases had been cured and 23 cases had died.
李振东是荆州第一例治愈出院的危重症患者。
Li Zhendong is the first critical case cured in Jingzhou.
“人只要还能呼吸，就有一线希望活下去，要对自己有信心。
"As long as one can breathe, there is a glimmer of hope for survival and confidence in oneself.
”他说，这是个“欺软怕硬”的病毒。
He said it was a "soft and hard" virus.
定时炸弹事实上，李振东从病发到确诊花费了6天。
Time bomb In fact, it took Li Zhendong six days from the onset of the disease to diagnosis.
拿到最终结果前的那些日子，他曾侥幸以为自己只是患上普通感冒，并未终止自己的日常行程。
In the days leading up to the final result, he had the good fortune to think that he was suffering from a common cold and had not stopped his daily routine.
他形容自己就像一颗未爆的“定时炸弹”，至今想起来都后怕。
He described himself as an unexploded "time bomb," still afraid to think of it.
第一次发现身体不太对劲，是在1月10日。
It was on January 10 that I first discovered that I wasn't myself.
他从荆州去武汉出差，晚上和几个同学在汉口小聚，和大家分开时已经9点，同学就邀请他留宿在自己家。
He went to Wuhan from Jingzhou on business. In the evening, he had a little party with some students in Hankou.
当晚，他开始发烧乏力，因为担心“感冒”传染给同学已经怀孕的妻子，他自觉地戴上了口罩。
That night, he became feverish, worried that the "cold" would infect his schoolmate's pregnant wife, and he voluntarily put on a mask.
早在2019年12月的时候，李振东就从武汉朋友口中听说“疑似华南海鲜市场出现不明原因肺炎”的消息。
As early as December 2019, Li Zhendong heard from Wuhan friends that "suspected South China seafood market appears unknown pneumonia".
虽然他一直频繁出入武汉，但抵达之处都与华南海鲜市场相距甚远。
Although he has been frequenting Wuhan, he has arrived far from the South China seafood market.
恰好那段时间又是流感高峰期，李振东并未将自己的病症和新冠肺炎联系在一起。
Just then, at the height of the flu season, Li did not associate his illness with pneumonia.
三天之后，李振东再次驱车前往武汉，受邀参加湖北商会的一个会议，一个细节让他印象深刻：当时已经是1月中旬，但那天参会的八十余人中，只有他一个人佩戴了口罩。
Three days later, Li Zhendong drove to Wuhan again and was invited to a meeting of the Hubei Chamber of Commerce. One detail impressed him: it was mid-January, but he was the only one of the more than 80 people who attended the meeting that day to wear a mask.
“现在想起来有些后怕，如果当时不是我的先见之明，很有可能变成‘超级传播者’。
"It's a bit scary to think of it now, but if it wasn't for my foresight, it might have turned out to be a super-communicator.
”自发烧以来，和李振东有交集的人不计其数。
"Since the fever, Li Zhendong and the intersection of countless people.
幸运的是，这层薄薄的口罩也许成为了隔绝病毒的一道屏障，意外地保护了他的身边人。
Luckily, the thin mask may have served as a barrier against viruses, accidentally protecting those close to him.
到目前为止，和他有过亲密接触的家人、同学、同事无一人感染。
So far, none of his close family, classmates or colleagues has been infected.
“这辈子都不想再有的体验”病情逆转发生在1月14日。
The "experience I didn't want to experience again" took place on January 14.
李振东在社区医院输液不适感增强。
The discomfort of infusion of Li Zhendong in community hospital increased.
先是出现咳嗽、胸闷，晚间耳边开始弥漫哮鸣音，呼吸增速也不正常。
First there is coughing, chest tightness, night ear began to diffuse the sound of asthma, breathing speed is not normal.
妻子连夜带他前往医院，先去荆州市第一人民医院拍胸部CT，被告知可能是肺结核，后又让他转去荆州市胸科医院。
His wife took him to the hospital overnight, first to Jingzhou First People's Hospital for chest CT, was told that it might be tuberculosis, and then he was transferred to Jingzhou Chest Hospital.
荆州市胸科医院是当地著名的结核病防治所，也是荆州市区唯一的传染病定点收治单位。
Jingzhou Chest Hospital is a well-known local tuberculosis prevention and treatment unit, but also the only fixed-point treatment unit for infectious diseases.
在李振东前来就诊的一周之前，院方刚刚收治了一位来自华南海鲜市场的搬运工，也是荆州市第一例确诊的新冠患者。
Li's visit came a week after the hospital admitted a porter from the South China seafood market and was the first confirmed case of a new crown in Jingzhou.
据当天值班医生回忆，李振东的CT显示双肺全白，呈毛玻璃样影，和医院收治的第一例患者情况高度相似。
According to the doctor on duty that day, Li Zhendong's CT showed that both lungs are all white, showing a glass-like shadow, and the hospital treatment of the first patient is highly similar.
没有核酸检测，光凭CT难以判断，医生又在流行病学范畴，仔细询问了李振东一周内的行程、接触到的人和病发经过，并详细记录。
Without nucleic acid testing, CT alone difficult to judge, the doctor in the epidemiological field, carefully asked Li Zhendong a week's journey, contact with people and the history of the disease, and detailed records.
所有医护人员都警觉起来，连原本没做防护的护士也立即戴上口罩。
All the paramedics were alerted and even the nurses, who had not been protected, put on masks immediately.
即便如此，李振东也没往新冠肺炎上想，觉得自己应该患的只是肺结核。
Even so, Li Zhendong did not look at the new crown pneumonia, think he should be suffering only from tuberculosis.
14日晚，医生安排他住进普通病房，妻子回家拿来一周的换洗衣物，陪着他住下来。
On the evening of the 14th, the doctor arranged for him to be admitted to the general ward, and his wife came home for a week's change of clothes and stayed with him.
为了准确筛查，血常规、CT、彩超、咳痰检测的检测频率每天同步。
In order to screen accurately, the detection frequency of routine, CT, color ultrasonography and cough phlegm detection is synchronized every day.
李振东一天得抽5管血，针管留下的淤青从手背一直蔓延向上，直至出院两周后也没能褪去。
Li Zhendong a day to draw five tubes of blood, the needle from the back of the hand has spread upward, until two weeks after the hospital did not fade.
为了保存体力让身体去造血，每次抽完血他就逼自己喝掉半瓶牛奶，“有时候边咳边喝，强忍着把牛奶喝下去。
In order to preserve his strength for the body to produce blood, he forced himself to drink half a bottle of milk every time he finished smoking.
”更难以忍受的是咳痰检测。
More excruciating was the sputum test.
想要把痰咳出来难度太大，有时候咳得撕心裂肺也只见血不见痰，每用力一下，五脏六腑都被牵引着往外拉，这是李振东“这辈子都不想再有的体验”。
Want to cough sputum out too difficult, sometimes coughing heart-rending lung only see blood no phlegm, every exertion, the five viscera are pulled outward, this is "this life never want to have another experience."
院里组织省市专家进行了两天的会诊，针对李振东的病情制定了详细的治疗方案。
The hospital organized a two-day consultation with provincial and municipal experts to formulate a detailed treatment plan for Li Zhendong's illness.
后续的检查报告中显示，患者肺部五叶病变，呼吸频率增快每分钟大于30次，血氧饱和度不到40%，病灶进展快，符合不明原因肺炎特征。
Follow-up reports showed that the patient's lung lesions, respiratory rate increased more than 30 times per minute, blood oxygen saturation of less than 40%, the lesion progress quickly, according to the characteristics of unknown pneumonia.
1月16日下午，李振东被确诊为荆州市第一例危重型新冠肺炎患者。
On the afternoon of January 16, Li Zhendong was diagnosed as the first case of critical new crown pneumonia in Jingzhou.
此后的一段时间里，李振东从手机新闻上看到湖北省病患数字激增，医院原本的隔离病房床位也变得紧张。
For some time afterwards, Li saw a surge in the number of patients in Hubei province on the mobile phone news, straining the hospital's original isolation ward bed.
新冠肺炎病人越来越多，最开始是集中在住院部一楼的一小块区域，后来从二楼到五楼的病房都被腾出来，直到整幢楼都变成收治隔离区。
The increase in the number of patients with new crown pneumonia was initially concentrated in a small area on the first floor of the inpatient department, and the wards from the second to the fifth floor were vacated until the entire building was turned into a treatment isolation area.
医护人员的防护装备从刚开始的普通口罩替换成后来的N95、防护服、护目镜，全副武装。
The paramedics' protective gear was replaced by a new normal mask, later N95, protective clothing, goggles, heavily armed.
重生在医院的16天的治疗期，李振东经历了病发、濒死、恢复和重生四个阶段。
Reborn in the hospital 16 days of treatment, Li Zhendong experienced illness, near death, recovery and rebirth four stages.
1月23日下午，李振东退烧，身体也逐渐转好。
January 23 afternoon, Li Zhendong reduce fever, the body gradually improved.
他能缓缓下床活动，挪动数十步往返厕所。
He can slowly get out of bed and move dozens of steps to and from the toilet.
病情得到基本控制后，他的食欲也逐渐被唤醒，进食恢复正常，一天能喝1500毫升水，双手可以举起手机。
Once his condition was basically under control, he gradually regained his appetite, eating normally, drinking 1,500 ml of water a day and holding up his cell phone with both hands.
他和朋友相约，康复后要去吃一顿海鲜大餐。
He made a date with a friend and was going to have a big seafood dinner after his recovery.
1月27日，荆州市首例确诊的新冠患者康复出院。
January 27, the first confirmed case of the new crown patient in Jingzhou convalescent discharged.
有了参照样本，李振东心里也有了底气。
With the reference sample, Li Zhendong also has the courage in his heart.
他想着，“如果这次我能重获新生，我一定要用自己的二次生命去帮助更多感染者，鼓励他们坚持到底，让他们都能够在涅槃中重生。
"If I can regain my life this time," he thought, "I will use my second life to help more infected people, encourage them to stay the course, and let them all be reborn in nirvana."
”四天之后，李振东两次核酸检测转阴，病愈出院。
Four days later, Li Zhendong returned to the hospital after two nucleic acid tests turned negative.
医生嘱咐他要在家自我隔离14天，避免二次感染，再观察三个月才算完全康复。
The doctor told him to isolate himself at home for 14 days to avoid a second infection and to observe three months before he could fully recover.
1月31日，被治愈后，李振东走出荆州市胸科医院住院部大楼。
On January 31, after being cured, Li Zhendong walked out of the inpatient building of Jingzhou Chest Hospital.
受访者供图隔离期并非一帆风顺，他一度以为病毒卷土重来。
The period of isolation was not an easy one. He once thought the virus was making a comeback.
回家后先是发烧，烧到38.2℃，又过了两天，他身上开始泛出大片的红疹，从胸部一直蔓延到全身，瘙痒难忍，抓一下就会往外晕一圈。
After returning home with a fever that burned to 38.2 degrees Celsius, two days later he began to develop a rash that spread from his chest all the way to his body, itching so much that he fainted once he caught it.
“不会是复发了吧，”光想就让李振东胆战心惊。
"It will not be a relapse," just want to let Li Zhendong fear.
主治医师告诉他，出现的症状是因为处于适应期，突然停药后身体的反抗，等到隔离期满，症状大多会自动消除。
The attending physician told him that the symptoms were due to resistance on the part of the body after a sudden withdrawal, and that by the time the isolation expired, the symptoms would mostly be eliminated automatically.
与死亡交手了一次，李振东不敢掉以轻心，他在家制定作息表严格执行：早上6点起床，晚上9点睡觉，一天至少保证12个小时的睡眠，他每天坚持来回走动，靠简单的舒展运动让身体复苏。
After a fight with death, Li Zhendong didn't dare to take it lightly. He made a schedule at home: get up at 6 am, go to bed at 9 pm, and get at least 12 hours of sleep a day. He walked back and forth every day and resuscitated himself with simple stretches.
这位过去将大部分时间投入工作的男人开始反思，自己陪伴家庭的时光太少。
The man, who had spent most of his time at work, began to reflect that he had spent too little time with his family.
李振东从事旅游行业，隔两天便要出一次差，每天睡眠不足6小时，从业16年，他已经习惯了这样的生活节奏。
Li Zhendong is engaged in the tourism industry, every two days to go out on a mission, less than six hours of sleep a day, 16 years of practice, he has become accustomed to the rhythm of life.
过去，他一直觉得生死由命，对身体的损耗并不在意，奋斗后给家人更好的物质生活才更重要。
In the past, he had always felt that life and death depended on life and death, that he did not care about the deterioration of his body and that it was more important to give his family a better material life after his struggle.
上一次带女儿出去是什么时候，他已经记不清了。
When the last time he took his daughter out, he couldn't remember.
大病初愈后，他说这捡回来的第二次生命，想从陪伴开始。
After the initial illness, he said it was the second life he had picked up, and wanted to start with the company.
他给医院捐献了物资，并分享自己的经历，希望这座城市能跟自己一样，慢慢好起来。
He donated supplies to the hospital and shared his experiences in the hope that the city, like himself, would get better.
联系作者▼沈彤E-mail：876615882@qq.com杜雯雯E-mail：13671182322@163.com洋葱话题▼对痊愈的患者，你有什么祝福？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读支援医院的武汉环卫工：每天处理300桶垃圾对话武汉第一位出院的重症患者：这是我的第二次新生被治愈的二胎母亲：黄石首例确诊孕妇治疗9天出院既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell us why? Why don't you tell us why? Why don't you come back to China = Why don't you tell us why you don't come over to China = Why don't you tell us why don't you tell us about it.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​荆州第一例危重症新冠患者的生死十六天。
The first case of critical new crown patient in Jingzhou died 16 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "​荆州第一例危重症新冠患者的生死十六天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在医院的16天的治疗期，李振东经历了病发、濒死、恢复和重生四个阶段。
var msg _ desc = & quot; During his 16 days at the hospital, Li experienced four stages of illness, near death, recovery and rebirth.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '支援医院的武汉环卫工：每天工作16小时，处理300桶垃圾',。
Wuhan sanitation worker who assisted with the hospital: 16 hours a day at & nbsp; 300 barrels of garbage & apos;.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '对话武汉第一位出院的重症患者：这是我的第二次新生',。
Dialogue Script1: Wuhan's first serious patient discharged from hospital: This is my second new born and patient.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '被治愈的二胎母亲：黄石首例确诊孕妇治疗9天出院',。
A cured second child: Yellowstone's first confirmed case of pregnant women with 9 days of hospital discharge.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
