李铁：增加互信互联，避免城市防疫各自为战。
Li Tie: Increase mutual trust and interconnection to avoid separate urban epidemic prevention.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 李铁。
Author Li Tie.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
当下，在有效防控疫情的同时，需要发挥城市和区域间的协调与合作，防止因各自为战，造成非重点疫区复工复业的困难，影响经济和社会的稳定发展，以及人民生活的安定文 | 李铁从1月23日武汉封城以来，除了重点疫区，绝大部分城市和地区的疫情有了明显好转，新增确诊人数连续下降。
Now, while effectively preventing and controlling the epidemic, it is necessary to bring into play city and regional coordination and cooperation so as to prevent the fragmentation of efforts that have resulted in the resumption of work in non-priority affected areas, and hamper steady economic and social development.
这取决于中央以及各地对抗疫的重视，采取严防死守策略，无论是从城市还是到乡村，发挥了巨大的作用。
This depends on the importance attached to the fight against the epidemic at the central and local levels, and the adoption of strict preventive strategies, both in the cities and in the countryside, has played an enormous role.
说明中国的体制动员力，在重大的灾害面前，具有巨大优势。
It shows that China's institutional mobilization has great advantages in the face of major disasters.
随着疫情形势的变化，一些非重点疫情地区开始响应中央号召，抗疫的同时，稳定经济和社会生活，相继采取了稳步推进复工和复业的措施，但是面临着抗疫后遗症：一是涉及配套复工的产业链没有完全恢复；二是物流的复工滞后于工业企业；三是一些城市要求所有从外地返回本地就业的人员，要先自行隔离两周之后才可以上班；四是一些城市禁止部分地区返城人员进入；五是在抗疫期间临时建立的行政强化措施，变成了企业复工的阻碍，办事难的问题直接影响到企业的直接需求，等等。
As the epidemic situation changed, some non-priority epidemic areas began to respond to the central government's call to fight the epidemic and stabilize economic and social life. However, they faced the after-effects of the epidemic: first, industrial chains involving returning workers were not fully restored; secondly, logistics resumed employment lagged behind industrial enterprises.
这些后遗症的原因在于对春节后回流人群高风险的认知，以及极少数感染风险人员被遗漏的担心。
The reason for these sequelae lies in the high risk perception of the returning population after the Spring Festival and the fear that very few people at risk of infection will be left out.
当下，在有效防控疫情的同时，需要发挥城市和区域间的协调与合作，防止因各自为战，造成非重点疫区复工复业的困难，影响经济和社会的稳定发展，以及人民生活的安定。
At present, while effectively preventing and controlling the epidemic, it is necessary to bring into play coordination and cooperation between cities and regions so as to prevent the fragmentation of efforts that will lead to the resumption of work in non-priority affected areas, and affect the stable development of the economy and society and the stability of people's lives.
避免伤敌八百自损一千从数据看，历年春节期间人口流动达到了3亿的规模，而今到现在为止才8000万，因此人们认为返城高峰尚未到来，还存在着较大的风险。
According to statistics, the flow of people during the Spring Festival has reached 300 million in recent years, but it has only reached 80 million so far. Therefore, it is believed that the peak of urban return has not yet arrived, and there are still great risks.
其实，1月23日武汉封城之前，疫情风险信息已为人们所知，各地也都纷纷采取了相应的措施，直接影响到所有春节度假人员的出行选择。
In fact, before the closure of Wuhan on January 23, the epidemic risk information has been known, all over the country have taken appropriate measures, directly affect the choice of all Spring Festival holiday staff.
除了学校和一部分企业提前放假，或者一些回家愿望比较强烈的人，许多人选择了留在工作地自我隔离。
With the exception of schools and some businesses that have taken early vacations, or those who have a strong desire to return home, many have chosen to remain in the workplace and isolate themselves.
因此从出行到返回的人数大大下降，很大程度上降低了返城高峰的风险。
As a result, the number of people travelling to and returning from urban areas has declined significantly, significantly reducing the risk of urban return peaks.
另外，大量服务业和工业企业处于停产状态，返乡农民工回城就业的预期也无法实现，只能等待企业和单位复工和复业的信息，因此也留在家乡的城市和农村，等待进一步的通知。
In addition, a large number of services and industrial enterprises in the state of production, return to urban employment of migrant workers can not be expected to achieve, can only wait for enterprises and units to resume work and resume information, and therefore remain in their home cities and rural areas, pending further notification.
还有一些地区和城市，要求隔离的措施过于严苛，也是影响返城高峰出现的重要因素。
There are also regions and cities where segregation requirements are too stringent and are an important factor in the emergence of urban return peaks.
中央虽然提出了对于疫情较轻城市和地区的复工和复业要求，并明确要求采取分级施策，但是当地出于对疫情的恐惧和担责的心理，只要没有进一步明确的细则和组织上的落实和保证，仍处于观望状态。
Although the central government has put forward the demand for resumption of work and the resumption of work in cities and areas with a relatively low epidemic, and has explicitly called for a graduated response, the local feeling of fear and responsibility for the epidemic remains on the sidelines, as long as there are no further clear rules and organizational implementation and guarantees.
更为严重的是，各地都在观望和参照高等级城市的措施，因此一些超大和特大城市采取的措施对全国的影响也是显而易见的。
To make matters worse, measures taken in mega-cities and mega-cities are being looked at and referenced everywhere, so that the impact of measures taken in mega-cities and mega-cities on the entire country is also evident.
目前已经明确的是，全国各城市和各地区都在春节期间采取了最严厉的管控政策，基本实现了自我隔离和相对封闭。
It is now clear that cities and regions throughout the country have adopted the most stringent control policies during the Spring Festival, largely achieving self-segregation and relative isolation.
几乎所有的城市和农村，大多都采取了严格的封闭措施，特别是外来度假和探亲的人口，包括返乡人员。
In almost all urban and rural areas, strict closures have been imposed, particularly on the population on foreign holidays and family visits, including returnees.
在对来自疫情重点地区人员实行了全部的隔离措施外，民众也注重自身的防护和隔离。
In addition to the complete isolation of persons from priority areas of the epidemic, the population has also focused on its own protection and isolation.
可以说，近些年很少有抗灾行动曾达到过目前几乎对全国全覆盖的效果。
It can be said that very few disaster response operations in recent years have had the effect of almost universal coverage at present.
尽管绝大部分外地返城人员春节期间已经在家乡实现了长达20多天的自我隔离，但是还是有一些城市宣布，从现在开始对所有返城人员进行再次隔离，他们担心，极少数被遗漏的感染风险人员，可能会增加了疫情再次传播的风险。
Although most migrant workers have been isolated in their home towns for more than 20 days during the Spring Festival, some cities have announced plans to re-quarantine all returning workers from now on, fearing that the small number of missing persons at risk of infection could increase the risk of retransmission.
这些风险人员之所以被遗漏，可能是个人隐匿不报，或者是在不经意之间感染而自己不知情，或者是现在医疗检测程序和手段滞后等原因。
These risk factors may be due to the fact that individuals do not report them, or that they have inadvertently been infected without their knowledge, or that medical testing procedures and procedures are lagging behind.
根据许多已经发现的疫情跟踪调查，整个过程堪比间谍大片，说明这种遗漏的现象几乎超出我们的想象。
According to many of the cases that have been detected, the whole process is akin to a spy story, suggesting that this omission is almost beyond our imagination.
正是因为如此，各地采取了全面的再隔离政策，也是事出有因。
It is for this reason that comprehensive re-segregation policies have been adopted everywhere, and for good reason.
疫情当前，重中之重，是防止再次传播。
The immediate priority of the epidemic is to prevent further transmission.
同时也要考虑到疫后的经济社会发展，以及城乡居民的生产和生活。
We should also take into account the economic and social development after the epidemic, as well as the production and life of urban and rural residents.
如果按照中央近期确定的精神，区别对待，科学防控，还是有办法降低社会成本的。
If, in line with the spirit recently set by the central government, differentiation, scientific control and control, there are ways to reduce social costs.
这样就可以避免伤敌八百自损一千的后果。
That way, you can avoid hurting the enemy by eight hundred self-harm.
毕竟，疫情引发的就业收入下降以及经济社会成本上升，是全社会必须要承担的代价。
After all, the decline in employment income caused by the epidemic and rising economic and social costs are costs that society must bear.
应加强城市间合作，避免各自为战科学管控的办法有多种，有通过信息技术的，有通过管理方法的，重点是对于科学的办法要有足够的信心，并且能够通过体制和技术双重的手段来实现。
Inter-city cooperation should be strengthened so as to avoid fragmented approaches to scientific regulation, ranging from information technology to management, with an emphasis on sufficient confidence in the scientific approach to be achieved through a combination of institutional and technical means.
首先，要考虑是否应该加强城市间的合作，避免各自为战。
First, consider whether city-to-city cooperation should be strengthened to avoid fragmentation.
各地对外来返城人员一律自我隔离，等于同时否定了其他城市和地方的防控措施，认为只有自己城市采取的办法最有效，对于其他的城市并不信任。
Self-segregation of people returning to urban areas is tantamount to denying control measures in other cities and localities, considering that only their own cities have the most effective approach and do not trust other cities.
这种不信任不仅仅存在中小城市之间，也存在诸如北京和上海这样的大城市之间。
This distrust exists not only between small and medium-sized cities, but also between big cities such as Beijing and Shanghai.
来自北京的人即使经过自我20多天的隔离，到上海也要再隔离两周，北京同样如此。
People from Beijing will be quarantined in Shanghai for another two weeks, even after more than 20 days of self-imposed isolation.
而且各地纷纷仿效，造成了各种形式的封闭措施愈演愈烈。
They have also been replicated in various places, resulting in the intensification of various forms of closure.
中央长期以来提出的区域协调发展等方针大略，在抗疫面前，几乎等于一纸空文。
The central government has long proposed a coordinated regional development policy, in the face of the epidemic, almost a dead letter.
难道没有办法来解决城市之间在防疫措施上的互信吗？我认为，大疫当前，举全国之力的抗疫之战，更应该发挥城市和地区之间的协调作用，增加相互信任，减少本可以降低的经济和社会成本，这应该是非重点疫情地区复工和复业的重要保证。
Is there no way to solve the problem of mutual trust between cities in terms of preventive measures? I believe that the current battle against epidemic diseases, which is a national endeavor, should give full play to the coordinating role between cities and regions, increase mutual trust and reduce the economic and social costs that could have been reduced.
其次，要考虑如何在建立城市间互信的基础上，对于各自的隔离和防护措施给与充分的认定。
Secondly, we should consider how to establish mutual trust between cities, on the basis of their respective isolation and protection measures to be fully identified.
要做到这点，城市间的信息互通应该是必要的前提。
To do this, city-to-city information-sharing should be a prerequisite.
这一方面需要中央有关部门在指导全国抗疫时，在强化医学方面的互助和支援重点疫情地区同时，增加非医学的组织力量，建立各城市之间的信息沟通基础，要求各地互通信息，相互认证，这样就可以大大减少城市对流动人员的相互排斥，也有利于对极少数被遗漏感染风险人员的跟踪监测。
In this regard, it is necessary for the central government departments concerned, when guiding the national fight against epidemic diseases, to strengthen mutual assistance in medical matters and support key epidemic areas, to increase non-medical organizational strength, to establish a basis for information exchange among cities and to request mutual information and certification, thus greatly reducing the mutual exclusion of migrants from cities and facilitating the tracking and monitoring of the very few people at risk of missing infection.
基于城市间的信息认定，如果仍发现有被遗漏的风险人员，对于他们来源地的责任人可以追责，包括行政和法律上的追责，使得城市政府之间的互信有责任和法律的保障。
The city-to-city identification of persons at risk, if they are found to be missing, allows for the accountability of those responsible in their place of origin, including administrative and legal accountability, and makes mutual trust between municipal governments accountable and guaranteed by law.
再次，要考虑如何发挥信息技术的作用。
Third, consider how to make use of information technology.
在几乎人人都是互联网用户的今天，如何发挥互联网的作用，是对信息体系抗疫能力的一次严峻考验，也是一次机会。
Today, when almost everyone is an Internet user, how to play the role of the Internet is a severe test of the ability of information systems to fight disease, but also an opportunity.
例如是否可以在各个城市和社区，通过二维码对各个相关城市是否已经采取自我隔离措施给予认定，而且实现全国城市间互通，杭州等地的经验就可以充分借鉴。
For example, the experience of Hangzhou and other places can be fully taken into account by identifying in two-dimensional codes whether individual cities have adopted self-segregation measures in cities and communities, and by interconnecting cities across the country.
这样既可以缩小疫情传播的风险，降低经济和社会成本，并有利于绝大部分企业复工和复业，还可以强化城市间的信息沟通，为未来的城市间合作奠定新的信息互通的机会。
This would reduce the risk of the spread of the epidemic, reduce economic and social costs and facilitate the return to work and employment of the vast majority of enterprises. It would also strengthen information communication between cities and create new opportunities for information-sharing for future inter-city cooperation.
而对于类似腾讯和阿里等拥有海量用户的互联网企业，也是一次难得的提供公共服务的机会。
And for Tencent and Ali and other Internet companies with a large number of users, is also a rare opportunity to provide public services.
对于极少数可能被遗漏的感染风险人员，存在的问题和原因是多方面的，我们可以按照流行病的调查和大数据的调查，对他们进行跟踪。
For the very few people at risk of infection who may be missing, the problems and causes are manifold, and we can track them according to epidemiological surveys and big data surveys.
这虽然需要动用一定的人力物力，但并不需要全社会为此再次付出两周的代价。
While this will require some human and material resources, it will not take another two weeks for the whole society to pay the price.
假设一下，如果在两周之后还会有零星的被遗漏者，难道还要继续全城封锁和社区封闭吗？解决问题最好的办法，就是如何认识科学地管控和防疫，而对于城市来说，减少各自为战，加强城市间的互信和全方位的信息沟通，不仅仅是这次防疫之战的需要，也是从贯彻长期以来中央提倡的区域协调发展的大战略的需要，更是未来信息技术服务于各级政府和城乡居民以及全社会的需要。
The best way to solve the problem is to know how to control and prevent epidemic diseases scientifically, and to strengthen mutual trust and all-round information communication among cities. This is not only the need for this epidemic prevention campaign, but also the need to carry out the long-term coordinated development strategy advocated by the central government.
作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is a chief economist with the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho Taoho. Click here to find out more about the epidemic. Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：增加互信互联，避免城市防疫各自为战。
Li Tie: Increase mutual trust and interconnection to avoid separate urban epidemic prevention.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：增加互信互联，避免城市防疫各自为战";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Li: Increase mutual trust and interconnection, and avoid citywide immunization coverage.;
var msg_desc = "当下，在有效防控疫情的同时，需要发挥城市和区域间的协调与合作，防止因各自为战，造成非重点疫区复工复业的困难，影响经济和社会的稳定发展，以及人民生活的安定。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the same time, effective prevention and control of the epidemic requires city and regional coordination and cooperation to prevent the fragmentation of efforts that may lead to the resumption of work in non-priority affected areas, and affect stable economic and social development and the stability of people's lives.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
