全球口罩大缺货，海外如何买口罩？。
Global mask shortage, how to buy a mask overseas?
王晓枫。
Wang Xiaofeng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞表示，对于口罩、防护服、手套等医疗护具的需求在近期增长100倍，价格也上涨20倍，积累的订单达到4-6个月，给全球生产供应链带来极为严重影响文 |《财经》记者 王晓枫编辑 | 郝洲“全部发给我。
Secretary-General of the World Health Organization says demand for medical masks, suits and gloves has increased 100-fold in the recent past, with prices rising 20-fold, and orders piling up for four to six months, with devastating effects on global production supply chains.
“王忠良在微信上对一位印度客户说，这位客户刚刚为他找到了一批两层口罩，王忠良立即告诉他全部下单。
"Wang told an Indian client in a letter that the client had just found a batch of two-storey masks for him and Wang Zhongliang immediately told him to place all the orders.
王忠良是南京亿高微波系统工程有限公司的外贸总监，这是一家医疗设备生产企业。
Wang Zhongliang is the foreign trade director of Nanjing Million High Microwave System Engineering Co. Ltd. This is a medical equipment manufacturing enterprise.
新型冠状病毒疫情爆发后，他的日常工作就是在全球采购口罩。
Since the outbreak of the new coronavirus, his daily job is to buy masks around the world.
在过去两个多星期中，他的团队共采购11万个外科口罩、2万只N95口罩，还有2000套防护服，这些物资已经全部捐献给武汉市内6家医院和山东省的3家医院以及哈尔滨市的1家医院。
Over the past two weeks, his team has procured 110,000 surgical masks, 20,000 N95 masks and 2,000 suits of protective clothing, all donated to six hospitals in Wuhan city and three hospitals in Shandong Province, as well as one hospital in Harbin.
由于货源越来越少，外科口罩价格越来越贵，从0.4元人民币/只上涨为3元/只，N95口罩更是高达20元/只。
With fewer supplies, surgical masks are becoming more expensive, rising from Rmb0.40 to Rmb3.00 per mask and $20.00 per mask.
“从印度订购的第一批货是0.5元/只，第二批就直接涨到2.5元/只，我今天还在采购，现在已经要3元/只。
The first order from India was 0. 5 yuan per unit. The second shipment went up to 2.5 yuan per unit.
”王忠良告诉《财经》记者。
"Zhongliang Wang told Caijing.
王忠良团队与印度客户询问口罩的货源新冠疫情爆发让口罩等医疗防护用品的供应在全球范围变得格外紧张，世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞表示，对于口罩、防护服、手套等医疗护具的需求在近期增长100倍，价格也上涨20倍，积累的订单达到4-6个月，给全球生产供应链带来极为严重影响。
Asked by his Indian clients about the source of the mask, the outbreak has strained supplies of medical supplies such as masks around the world, with demand for masks, suits and gloves up 100-fold in the recent past and prices up 20-fold, with orders piling up for four to six months, with devastating effects on global production supply chains.
全球口罩的产能一天是4000万只，其中一半在中国。
Global mask production capacity is 40 million a day, half of them in China.
鉴于目前中国国内尚未完全复工而且疫情的发展存在不确定性，对口罩的刚需在中国迅速激增，这让很多中国公司和个人在全球市场上大量扫货口罩。
With China not yet fully back to work and uncertainty surrounding the spread of the disease, the need for masks has surged rapidly in China, prompting many Chinese companies and individuals to mopping up their masks on the global market.
他们采购的目的也大不相同，有的是为了个人自用，有的是受企业委托大宗采购口罩用于复工后发给员工使用，有的则是为了捐助给医疗机构。
Purchases also vary widely, from self-use to bulk purchase of masks commissioned by companies for distribution to employees once they return to work, to donations to medical institutions.
艰难的资源对接购买口罩的价格并不是天文数字，对于采购者来说，困难的是在极度缺货的情况下仍能挖掘出口罩货源。
The cost of purchasing masks is not astronomical. For buyers, the challenge is to unearth the source of the mask despite extreme stock-outs.
目前寻找海外货源的主要途径是回购中国出口海外的口罩、找海外企业下单生产和通过当地经销商去整合零散资源以凑齐单数。
At present, the main ways to find overseas supply is to buy back Chinese exports of foreign masks, find overseas enterprises to order production and integrate scattered resources through local dealers to make up the odd number.
这种难度超出了王忠良的想象，他们的采购小组在农历大年三十成立，因为预见到医疗机构将会出现医疗护具短缺的情况，他们最初从全球客户名单中海选出10个符合标准的口罩货源，但因为慢了一步，下单时发现已经有一半货源售罄，被其他买家捷足先登，只剩下印度、埃及、突尼斯和泰国仍有货源。
Their procurement team was formed in the Chinese New Year's Eve, anticipating a shortage of medical supplies in medical institutions. They initially selected 10 qualified masks from a global customer list, but when ordered slowly, they found that half of the supply was exhausted, leaving India, Egypt, Tunisia and Thailand the only ones left.
谈及此时，王忠良不停地叹气，“我们当时还没有完全意识到这次（疫情）如此紧迫，货就没了。
At this point, Wang Zhongliang sighed continuously. "We didn't realize that this time [the epidemic] was so urgent that the goods were gone."
”幸运的是土耳其客户很给力，这名负责人接到口罩订单后，第一时间赶到口罩厂拉回3万只外科口罩，放在办公室，并同时给当地口罩厂下了10万订单，而且在之后亲自去口罩厂蹲点，因为订单太多，只有这样才能保证先到先得抢到货。
Luckily for the Turkish customer, the person in charge arrived at the mask factory the first time to retrieve 30,000 surgical masks, put them in the office, placed 100,000 orders for the local mask factory and then crouched in person at the mask factory because there were so many orders that first come, first served.
“这些口罩全部通过快递邮寄回中国，因为是空运，运费比口罩本身价值还高。
"These masks are all sent back to China by courier because they are airfreighted and cost more than the mask itself.
那时口罩价格还不贵，0.4元/只，三万只口罩共1.2万元左右，但运费达到1.5万元。
At that time, the price of masks was not expensive, 0.4 yuan / only, 30,000 masks a total of about 12,000 yuan, but the freight reached 15,000 yuan.
”王忠良说。
'said Wang.
如何将这些货物快速运回中国也大有学问，从土耳其采购口罩到中国医院收到口罩最短需要一周，这是一个争分夺秒且每一个细节都不能出差错的过程。
How to get these goods back to China quickly can also be learned. Getting a mask from Turkey to a Chinese hospital takes at least a week, a time-consuming process in which nothing goes wrong.
国际快运公司会选择民用航班带货，疫情导致民用航班减少，这会耽搁口罩的运输，王忠良团队要紧盯运货流程，在每一次转运中都打电话给快运公司确保让口罩搭上最早起飞的航班。
International Express will choose civilian flights to carry cargo, the epidemic will lead to fewer civilian flights, which will delay the movement of masks, Wang Zhongliang's team must keep an eye on the cargo flow and call the express company in every transit to ensure that the masks are put on the earliest possible flights.
到达中国后，物流公司现在人手不足，要提前与机场方面沟通，告知物资是捐赠医疗用品，加快通关，并转运到下一个流程。
After arriving in China, the logistics company is now understaffed and needs to communicate with the airport in advance to inform them that the supplies are donated medical supplies, expedite customs clearance and transfer to the next process.
这三万只口罩是王忠良团队采购的第一批口罩，已经运回国并发放给华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院、华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院，还有一小部分去了山东。
The 30, 000 face masks purchased by Wang Zhongliang's team have been shipped back to China and distributed to Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical School, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Tongji Medical College, and a small part to Shandong Province.
为了确保口罩及时发放，他们利用医院渠道直接捐赠，根据医院具体需求进行采购和送货，利用在湖北的办事处对接武汉医院需求，甚至细化到每个科室的需求。
To ensure the timely distribution of masks, they use hospital channels to make direct donations, according to specific hospital needs for procurement and delivery, using the Hubei office docking Wuhan hospital needs, or even detailed to the needs of each section.
因为湖北多地封城和交通管制，必须依靠物流将口罩送到当地，物流公司将口罩送给亿高在武汉办事处人员，再由他们亲自跑腿送给医院。
As Hubei many cities and traffic control, must rely on logistics to send masks to the local, logistics companies to 100 million people in Wuhan office, and then they personally run errands to the hospital.
南京亿高医疗设备有限公司捐赠的疫情救援物资。
Nanjing Million High Medical Equipment Co. Ltd. Donated epidemic relief materials.
与口罩出口限制令赛跑随着新冠疫情在全球范围内扩散，口罩需求激增。
Mask Export Restraint Runs With the New Crown Epidemic spreading around the world, demand for masks is soaring.
为了保障供应，很多国家采取限制出口的措施保障本国口罩供应。
To secure supplies, many countries have imposed export restrictions to secure their own supply of masks.
例如，泰国宣布限制口罩出口，外寄口罩每次不可多于500个，否则会被拒绝出关。
Thailand, for example, announced that it would restrict the export of face masks to no more than 500 at a time, failing which they would be refused entry.
印度在今年1月确诊第一例新冠病毒感染病例后也宣布限制口罩出口，目前虽暂时解禁外科手术口罩出口，但仍维持对N95口罩的出口限制。
India also announced a restriction on the export of face masks after the first case was diagnosed in January, and the ban on the export of N95 masks has been maintained despite the temporary lifting of the ban.
俄罗斯、伊朗等国则发出预警指出，如果口罩需求持续上升，可能会仿效限制口罩出境。
Countries such as Russia and Iran have warned that they could follow suit if demand for masks continues to rise.
一些国家虽然并未完全禁止口罩出口，但考虑到本国医疗资源并不发达，因此一定程度上也限制口罩出口。
Some countries have not banned the export of face masks completely, but they do restrict the export of masks to some extent, considering the country's underdeveloped medical resources.
例如，埃及口罩原本大量依靠从中国进口，但新冠病毒爆发后，这种供需关系倒置，埃及方面收到来自中国大订单，然而考虑到订单超出其生产能力且本地口罩供应不足，再加上埃及出现新冠肺炎疑似病例后被确诊，埃及方面取消订单，并限制口罩出口。
For example, Egypt's supply and demand for Egyptian masks, which were heavily dependent on imports from China after the outbreak of the new cap virus, was reversed and Egypt received large orders from China, but cancelled orders and restricted the export of masks in view of orders exceeding its capacity and insufficient supply of local masks, coupled with the diagnosis of suspected cases of pneumonia in Egypt.
口罩禁令为采购口罩带来难题。
The ban on masks poses a challenge for the purchase of masks.
“口罩从埃及出口时遭遇禁令，埃及客户为此去本国卫生部申请多次，但仍未得到批准。
"There was a ban on the export of masks from Egypt, and Egyptian clients went to the Ministry of Health several times to get approval," he said.
为了将口罩运出，埃及客户不得不采取曲线政策，先将口罩通过旅客人工带去希腊，然后经由希腊转运回中国。
To get the masks out of the country, Egyptian customers had to adopt a curvilinear policy, first taking the masks artificially through the passengers to Greece, where they are then transshipped back to China.
”王忠良说。
'said Wang.
印度发布外科手术口罩出口禁令后，王忠良的印度客户曾将两万个外科口罩分成15个小包裹，每个包裹有小号旅行箱大小，分别邮寄到中国十五个地方。
After India banned the export of surgical masks, Mr. Wang's Indian clients broke up 20,000 surgical masks into 15 small parcels, each the size of a small suitcase, to be mailed to 15 locations in China.
拆成小包裹不仅增加运费成本，也增加通关的时间成本，分成15个包裹，相当于通关15次，耽搁口罩周转时间。
The unbundling of small parcels not only increases the cost of transportation but also the time cost of clearance, with 15 parcels, equivalent to 15 clearances, delaying the turnaround time for masks.
为了能确保顺利出关，他们还将品名改成医用辅料，而不是写明口罩。
To ensure smooth exit, they also changed the name of the item to medical accessories, rather than writing a mask.
“虽然有些不合规，但这种非常时刻，只能如此。
"There is some irregularity, but that is the only way to do this at this very moment.
”王忠良说。
'said Wang.
相比外科手术口罩，N95口罩更难采购因为货源少且管控严格，并不是每个国家都具备生产N95口罩的能力，N95的主要产能在中国。
N95 masks are harder to procure than surgical masks because they are less available and tightly controlled. Not every country has the capacity to produce N95 masks, and N95's main production capacity is in China.
王忠良只有在土耳其和印度能购买到，而在土耳其的那批口罩更是阴差阳错的出口转内销产品，这批口罩是苏州生产的，土耳其客户去年订购，因此有些库存，得知中国需要，原价卖给了亿高。
Wang is only available in Turkey and India, and the masks in Turkey are misplaced for export and domestic sale. The masks were manufactured in Suzhou and ordered by Turkish customers last year.
除了医疗专业企业利用行业贸易资源采购捐赠口罩，一些海外华人也利用自身资源在海外大量采购口罩。
In addition to medical professionals using trade resources to purchase masks, some overseas Chinese are using their own resources to purchase large quantities of masks overseas.
张远翔是肯尼亚河北总商会暨同乡会会长，自从疫情爆发后，他共向国内捐赠30万个外科手术口罩。
Zhang Yuanxiang, head of Kenya's Hebei General Chamber of Commerce and Home Affairs Association, has donated 300,000 surgical masks to China since the outbreak.
他没有寻找当地经销商合作，而是选择直接向工厂下单。
Instead of looking for local dealers to cooperate, he chose to order directly from the factory.
1月25日，肯尼亚河北总商会启动捐赠行动，张远翔找到当地一个生产医用外科手术口罩的工厂，下了30万只口罩订单，那时口罩还未成为全球抢购物品，价格大约为0.5元/只。
On January 25, the Hebei General Chamber of Commerce in Kenya launched a donation and Zhang Yuanxiang found a local factory that produces surgical masks and ordered 300,000 face masks, which had not yet become a global snap-up and cost about half a yuan per mask.
如此大宗口罩出关，他们要解决出关渠道。
Such a large number of mask clearance, they have to solve the channel.
不同于贸易出口，这种慈善捐赠出关需要特殊手续，张远翔联系到了中国驻肯尼亚使馆官员，并通过他们与国内红十字会取得联系，红十字会将他们的物资接收单位定为武汉协和医院和黄冈一家医院。
Unlike trade exports, which require special procedures for charitable donations, Zhang contacted Chinese embassy officials in Kenya and, through them, the national Red Cross, which designated their material recipients as Wuhan Concorde Hospital and Huanggang Hospital.
南航方面也在得到批准后，为他们免费运输这批捐赠口罩到中国。
South China Airlines also received approval to transport the donated masks to China for free.
万事俱备只欠东风，这批30万只口罩计划在1月29日起飞运往中国。
Everything is in order. The 300,000 masks are scheduled to take off for China on January 29.
然而由于采购口罩的中国人太多，张远翔的订单遭遇了资源挤兑现象。
But with so many Chinese buying masks, Mr. Zhang's orders have run into a run on resources.
一家中国公司用现金高价截胡了张远翔订的口罩，这家公司在广州有工厂，他们需要采购口罩为了应对复工。
Zhang Yuanxiang, a Chinese company that has factories in Guangzhou and needs to buy masks in case it resumes work, was stopped at a high cash price by a Chinese company.
截胡让张远翔非常措手不及，他与对方交涉，希望能够出让一些，可以高价购买，对方并未同意。
Jiehu let Zhang Yuanxiang very unprepared, he and the other side deal, hope to be able to give some, can buy at a high price, the other side did not agree.
张远翔只能另外从其他企业以高价购买11万多只口罩，在最后时候送上飞机。
Zhang Yuanxiang had to buy more than 110,000 masks from other companies at a high price and put them on the plane at the end of the day.
“口罩价格在海外水涨船高，抢夺口罩都变成了战争。
"The price of masks has risen overseas and the looting of them has become a war.
”张远翔无奈地对《财经》记者说。
"Zhang Yuanxiang helplessly told Caijing.
在抢购狂潮下，他意识到肯尼亚政府可能要限制口罩出口了，因为这个国家医疗资源并不发达，必须加紧行动，在2月7日的航班上必须运出第二批口罩。
Amid the buying frenzy, he realised the government might have to restrict the export of masks, as the country's medical resources were so underdeveloped that it had to step up operations and ship the second batch of masks on the February 7 flight.
为了让工厂加紧生产20万只口罩，张远翔不但给予高价还答应为工厂管理人员解决孩子就业问题，终于使对方全速生产，因为机器高速运转，甚至一度出了故障，万幸的是修理后得以继续生产，终于在2月6日完工。
In an effort to get the factory to produce 200,000 masks more quickly, Mr. Zhang not only offered high prices but also promised to take care of the children's jobs for factory managers. He finally got the company to work at full speed because the machines were running at high speeds and even broke down for a while.
随着口罩抢购升级，货运资源也变得越来越紧缺，因为仍在运行的航班所剩不多，再加上运送物资数量激增，共同加剧运力不足的压力。
As the purchasing of masks has escalated, cargo resources have become increasingly scarce, as the number of flights still in operation, combined with a surge in deliveries, has combined to increase pressure on capacity shortages.
张远翔带着20万只口罩来到机场，看到各个机构的物资堆满了机场，货运仓位已然满了。
Zhang, who came to the airport with 200,000 masks, saw the agencies' supplies pile up at the airport and the cargo space is full.
为了让这批货能够运回中国，南航破例将口罩放到座位上运回国。
In order to allow the shipment back to China, China Southern Airlines exceptionally put the mask on the seat to transport home.
在第二批口罩离开肯尼亚不久后，肯尼亚海关和卫生部发布命令，限制口罩出口。
Shortly after the second batch left Kenya, Kenya's customs and health ministries issued orders to restrict the export of masks.
“坐着”飞机抵达国内的口罩海外慈善机构在行动不仅下订单采购，海外华人还动员当地慈善组织为中国捐赠口罩，因为很多慈善组织和国际组织都拥有医疗护具资源。
Overseas Chinese have mobilized local charities to donate masks for China, as many charities and international organizations have the resources to do so.
位于美国宾夕法尼亚州的匹兹堡是武汉的姐妹城市，当地非政府组织Brother’s Brother Foundation（BBF）在本周刚刚向武汉几家医院捐赠了18万只外科手术口罩。
Brother's Brother Foundation (BBF), a local NGO based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which is a sister city of Wuhan, just this week donated 180,000 surgical masks to hospitals in Wuhan.
BBF一个以实物捐赠为主的慈善机构，长期致力于在全球范围内消灭天花和小儿麻痹症等传染病，自1958年成立以来，已为全球149个国家提供超过10.5万吨药品、医疗设备、教科书、教育用品和紧急救灾援助。
BBF, a charity based on in-kind donations, has long worked to eradicate infectious diseases such as smallpox and poliomyelitis on a global scale, providing more than 105,000 tons of medicines, medical equipment, textbooks, educational supplies and emergency relief assistance to 149 countries worldwide since its inception in 1958.
“我们开始这个捐赠行动是因为看到新冠肺炎肆虐中国，疫情触动我们的心弦。
"We started this donation because it struck a chord when we saw the new crown pneumonia ravage China.
正好匹兹堡姐妹城市机构工作人员也找到我们，希望BBF能够帮助武汉。
Sisters of Pittsburgh staff just found us, hope that BBF can help Wuhan.
” BBF负责应对灾害援助的负责人萨拉·博尔（Sarah Boal）告诉《财经》记者。
Sarah Boal, director of disaster assistance at BBF, told Caijing.
BBF开始动员各种社会关系将口罩送到中国，他们与当地华人组织取得联系，这其中包括中国旅美科技协会匹兹堡分会（CAST-P），这些华人组织很支持BBF的想法，并提供一切能给予的帮助。
BBF began mobilizing social contacts to send masks to China, and they contacted local Chinese organizations, including CAST-P, the Chinese-American Association for Science and Technology, which supports the idea of BBF and offers whatever help it can.
华人团体帮助BBF联系到中国驻纽约总领馆，搞定清关和其他文书工作，联系航班将口罩运输到中国，并确定湖北省慈善总会为中方对接方。
The Chinese community helped BBF contact the Chinese Consulate General in New York to clear customs and other paperwork, contact flights to transport masks to China and identify the Hubei Philanthropy Association as the Chinese connection.
“没有华人社团的帮助，我们不可能成功。
"We could not have succeeded without the help of the Chinese community.
”萨拉说。
"said Sarah.
虽然美国目前没有限制口罩出口，但当地口罩供应在疫情爆发初期已开始变得紧张，一些超市断货。
Although the United States does not currently restrict the export of face masks, the local supply of masks has begun to become tense in the early stages of the outbreak, some supermarket stock-outs.
“现在全球口罩断供，但BBF在仓库里正好有大量口罩库存，因为我们平时就将很多医疗物资送到全球各地支援需要的人们，所以常收到捐赠，不久前我们刚收到一笔大宗口罩捐赠。
"Global masks are no longer in use, but BBF has a large stock of them in the warehouse because we normally send a lot of medical supplies around the world to support people in need, so we often receive donations, like a large donation of masks just a short time ago.
”萨拉说。
"said Sarah.
BBF将口罩指定捐赠给几家武汉医院，其中包括武汉科技大学所属医院，因为和这所学校早有联系，由医院来决定将口罩分发给最需要的地方。
The BBF has earmarked face masks for donation to several Wuhan hospitals, including Wuhan University of Science and Technology, which has long been linked to the school, which distributes them to those most in need.
BBF随时可以收到捐赠物资的进展信息，他们已经收到湖北慈善总会的确认函，得知刚刚捐赠的18万只外科手术口罩已经到达上海机场，通过绿色通道通关，运送到武汉医院的物流是阿里巴巴和另一家公司，接下来的每个关节，湖北慈善总会都会告知BBF。
BBF has received confirmation from Hubei Charity Association that the 180,000 surgical masks just donated have arrived at Shanghai airport, passed through the Green Channel, and that Alibaba and another company are transported to Wuhan Hospital, where the Hubei Charity Association will inform BBF of the next step.
来自BBF的捐赠物资“我们想捐赠更多，但我们很久没向中国捐赠物资了，要确保捐赠途径通达以及需要的人能得到口罩，因此这18万只是个试行，今后我们还会捐赠更多口罩。
Donations from the BBF "We want to donate more, but we haven't made donations to China for a long time, to make sure the donation is accessible and people who need it get masks.
”萨拉说。
"said Sarah.
BBF网站目前发起了为中国新冠肺炎捐款，刚开始运行，虽然捐款还不太多，但 BBF主席奥兹·萨马德（Ozzy Samad）有信心捐款会会越来越多。
BBF, which has recently launched a donation for China's New Crown Pneumonia, is just starting to make a modest contribution, but BBF President Ozzy Samad is confident it will.
这些捐款将被用来购买口罩和支付运费，他们正在为武汉的医院寻找N95口罩，虽然货源极度短缺。
The donations will be used to pay for face masks and freight, who are looking for N95 masks for Wuhan hospitals, despite an acute shortage of supplies.
2月7日，中国国家主席习近平应约同美国总统特朗普通电话时指出，中美就疫情防控保持着沟通，感谢美国社会各界提供物资捐助。
On February 7, Chinese President Xi Jinping, responding to a telephone call with US President Trump, stated that China and the United States were communicating on the prevention and control of the epidemic, thanking all sectors of the American community for their material contributions.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球口罩大缺货，海外如何买口罩？。
Global mask shortage, how to buy a mask overseas?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全球口罩大缺货，海外如何买口罩？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞表示，对于口罩、防护服、手套等医疗护具的需求在近期增长100倍，价格也上涨20倍，积累的订单达到4-6个月，给全球生产供应链带来极为严重影响";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & nbsp; Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO) says demand for medical masks, suits and gloves has increased 100-fold in the recent past, and prices have risen 20-fold, with orders accumulated for four to six months, with AT & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
