武汉“摆渡人”：送医送药、送家属去殡仪馆见死者最后一面。
Wuhan "ferryman": to send medicine, to send family to the funeral parlour to see the deceased the last side.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 黄姝静。
Author NINETY NINETY.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
在武汉这座几近停摆的城市里，数以千计的志愿司机们仍在“正常运转”，充当城市的“摆渡人”文 |《财经》记者 黄姝静 编辑 | 鲁伟离开部队后，39岁的杜勇又一次上了“前线”。
Du Yong, 39, was once again at the front line, after thousands of volunteer drivers in Wuhan, a near-standstill city, continued to function as city shoddy; and Huang Ning, a reporter for Caijing, left the army.
这一次，在家乡武汉，他冲在了疫区一线。
This time, in his hometown of Wuhan, he rushed in the epidemic area.
送医、送餐、送菜、送药，以洪山区和平街徐东社区居委会为中心，整个武汉都是杜勇的“战场”。
Send doctors, food, food, medicine, to the Hunshan District Peace Street Xu Dong neighborhood committee as the center, the whole Wuhan is Du Yong's "battlefield.
杜勇是滴滴出行武汉社区保障车队的一名志愿司机。
Du Yong is a volunteer driver for drip-drip trips to Wuhan community support convoys.
在武汉这座几乎停摆的城市里，像杜勇一样的志愿司机及其背后团队仍在“正常运转”，为这座城市的两条重要运输线（接送医护人员上下班、满足社区居民的基本用车需求）贡献力量。
In Wuhan, an almost stagnant city, volunteer drivers like Du Yong and the teams behind them are still "running normally," contributing to two of the city's key transport routes, which transport medical workers to and from work and meet the basic needs of the community.
杜勇所在的滴滴出行武汉社区保障车队，共召集了1336名志愿司机，自1月24日开始在当地服务。
Du Yong's drip-drip trip to Wuhan Community Guarantee convoy, a total of 1,336 volunteers, since January 24 began to serve in the local service.
此外，截至2月9日，滴滴出行在武汉成立的医护保障车队已经接入15家医院，25个院区，8600多名医护人员。
Meanwhile, as of February 9, the drip-drip medical-care convoy set up in Wuhan had been connected to 15 hospitals, 25 hospital districts and more than 8,600 medical personnel.
滴滴出行方面专门设立2亿元的保障车队专项资金，保障车队及医务人员的车费，均由滴滴出行承担。
A special $200 million vehicle fleet guarantee fund has been set up for drip trips to ensure that the cost of vehicles and medical staff is covered by drip trips.
除了滴滴出行之外，曹操出行是另外一家在武汉投入较多人、车组建保障车队的网约车平台。
In addition to drip-drip travel, Cao Cao is another in Wuhan to invest more people, car formation to guarantee the team of netted cars platform.
曹操出行在武汉的志愿司机有数百人，平台在武汉组建的保障车队，同样交由相关部门和社区居委会统一调度，为指定社区民众提供免费出行服务。
Cao Cao travel in Wuhan of the volunteer drivers, the platform set up in Wuhan to guarantee the convoy, also to the relevant departments and community committees unified dispatch, for designated communities to provide free travel services.
在武汉“封城”之后，机动车禁行令很快清空了武汉的马路，数以千计的志愿司机成为这个城市运输线的重要构成部分，他们在当地被称为“摆渡人”。
After Wuhan was "closed," motor vehicle bans quickly cleared Wuhan's roads, and thousands of volunteer drivers, known locally as "ferrymen," became an important part of the city's transportation routes.
这些志愿司机们的车辆用途被严格限制为“给生活不便居民上门免费提供送餐、送菜、送药等居家服务”和“必须的非发热疾病紧急送医”。
The use of these volunteers was strictly limited to "home delivery of food, food, medicine and other services free of charge" and "urgent delivery of necessary non-febrile diseases."
事实上，志愿司机们需要面对各种突发状况与需求，他们的上班时间大多为上午8点到下午6点，但实际上必须24小时待机，“随时准备出发”。
In fact, volunteer drivers, faced with emergencies and demands, spend most of their working hours between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., but must in fact be on standby 24 hours a day "ready to go."
紧张的生活已经持续了20多天。
The intense life has lasted more than 20 days.
杜勇和他的同事们坚信，一切都会好起来的。
Du and his colleagues were confident that everything would be okay.
志愿司机姜军很是想念那个热闹非凡的武汉，更多的志愿司机则盼望着人们摘下口罩的那一天早些到来。
The volunteer driver, Jiang Jun, misses the bustling Wuhan, and more volunteer drivers look forward to the day when people take off their masks.
1月24日，滴滴出行率先在武汉组建保障车队。
January 24, drip travel first in Wuhan to form a guarantee of the convoy.
受访者供图送死者家属去殡仪馆见最后一面2月12日，杜勇接回一个特殊的小乘客——一个刚刚一周大的婴儿。
On Feb. 12, Du Yong picked up a special baby -- a baby just a week old.
几天之前，也是杜勇把即将临盆的孩子的妈妈从社区紧急送往医院。
A few days earlier, Du Yong had rushed the mother of her dying child from the community to the hospital.
孩子在出生时，经历的时间过长，羊水呛到了喉管和肺部，在医院保温箱待了一个星期。
When the baby was born, it took too long and choked on the throat and lungs, staying in a hospital incubator for a week.
2月12日，是孩子第一次回家。
On 12 February, the child returned home for the first time.
难得的，那次行程中，车内的喜悦与热闹替代了往日的沉静与担忧。
Rarely, on that trip, the joy and bustle of the car replaced the old calm and worry.
杜勇介绍说介绍，他主要服务的徐东社区共有居民约14800人，现有志愿司机5人、车辆5台，社区居委会工作人员共8人，志愿司机和社区居委会工作人员需要紧密协作，并配合后者的工作。
Du said about 14,800 residents of the Xudong community he serves, five volunteer drivers, five vehicles and eight community neighborhood committee workers would need to work closely with and cooperate with the local community, Du said.
“13人服务14800人，压力还是挺大的。
"There are 13 people serving 14,800 people, and the pressure is pretty high.
”杜勇说。
"said Du.
目前各大网约车平台召集的志愿车队在武汉交由社区统一调度。
At present, all large network of volunteer vehicles convened by the platform to the community in Wuhan unified dispatch.
不同社区的工作方式、对司机的要求不同，加之社区居民年龄段、社区建造时间的不同，都会影响志愿司机的服务时间、行程总量和工作方式。
The way in which different communities work, the different demands placed on drivers, the different age groups of the community and the amount of time the community builds affect the length of service, the total number of trips and the way volunteers work.
比如，有些老小区，患有慢性疾病的老人较多，出行需求、送菜、送药等需求量都会更大，工作人员和志愿司机的压力也会更大。
For example, in some old neighbourhoods, older persons with chronic diseases are more in demand, requiring travel, food delivery, medicines, etc., and are under greater pressure from staff and volunteer drivers.
作为车队队长，杜勇参与并见证社区保障车队从最初的“手忙脚乱”到如今的“相对有序”。
As the team leader, Du Yong participated and witnessed the community safety team from the initial "hectic" to today's "relatively orderly."
起初，徐东社区配有7辆保障车，但仍然不够用。
Initially, the Xu Dong community was equipped with seven security vehicles, but they were still insufficient.
杜勇称，彼时保障车队刚刚出现，“封城”令颁布不久，居民多少有些恐慌，出行需求如潮水般涌来，“开始的两天，可用可不用车的情况，居民都会选择要车。
Du said the convoy was just beginning to emerge, residents were more or less alarmed by the "closure" order, and demand for travel had flooded in. "For the first two days, you can use a car," he said.
”在此情况下，徐东社区居委会工作人员开始对需求一一进行筛选，排定优先级，并在确定比较安全的情况下，将具体需求派给志愿司机。
In this context, Xu Dongcheng neighborhood committee workers began screening and prioritizing requirements and assigning specific needs to volunteer drivers when safer.
接下来的几天中，车队经历了滴滴出行大数据调控后的车辆抽调、队员请假、新人补充等，最终保障车队稳定为现在的5台车和5位司机。
Over the next few days, the team experienced drip-drip traffic control of the large number of vehicles, leave of absence, new additions, and so on, finally to ensure the stability of the fleet to the current five cars and five drivers.
杜勇日均有8趟-9趟行程，繁忙时甚至会达到11趟、12趟。
Du made eight to nine trips a day and even made 11 and 12 trips during peak hours.
因为队长的身份，他主动承担了一些地形、人员情况相对复杂的小区的物资和人员载送，也因此，会比一般司机的出车率更高，有时会工作到凌晨。
As a team leader, he volunteered materials and personnel for some of the more difficult terrain and personnel conditions in the small area, and as a result, he would have higher travel rates than the average driver, sometimes working into the early hours of the morning.
杜勇要操心的事情很多。
Du had a lot to worry about.
最近车队新来了两位司机，在送菜上门的时候，他会让老师傅带着新师傅，“我怕他们是新手，和居民聊太多，或者有太多接触。
"I'm afraid they're new, they're talking too much to residents, or there's too much contact with them," he said recently, referring to two new drivers in the motorcade.
那样对大家都不安全。
It's not safe for everyone.
”每次出行，司机们都“全副武装”，全程穿戴防护服、口罩，及时测量并上报体温信息，车辆定时消毒、行程前后开窗通风。
Drivers were fully armed, wearing protective clothing and masks throughout the trip, measuring and reporting body temperature information, disinfecting vehicles regularly and opening windows before and after trips.
但杜勇仍会叮嘱同事们各种注意事项。
But Du still tells his colleagues what to look out for.
比如，“我们每次给隔离在家的居民送菜的时候，都能看到他们那种很渴望的眼神，但又不能跟他们有过多的交流。
"For example, every time we bring food to an isolated resident, we see that longing look in their eyes, but we can't communicate too much with them.
”志愿司机们除了需要应对各种突发事件外，每天的工作其实也“有章可循”。
As well as dealing with emergencies, volunteer drivers have rules to follow in their daily work.
以杜勇所在的社区为例，早上居委会一般会安排一些病人做透析或者医护人员的上班行程，大概两天一次需要到街道去运输物资。
In Du's community, for example, morning neighborhood committees typically arrange dialysis or medical staff trips to work, perhaps twice a day to transport supplies to the streets.
杜勇介绍，透析病人每次治疗需要约5个小时，出来后，“病人往往是疲软的，完全没有力气”，也因此，需要家属陪同。
Du said dialysis patients need about five hours of treatment each time they come out. "Patients tend to be weak and have no energy at all," Du said.
杜勇听到过一个令人心酸的故事：两位60多岁的老人乘坐社区的保障车前往医院透析后，回来时没有任何交通工具可以搭乘。
Du Yong had heard the sad story of two 60-year-olds travelling in community-guaranteed vehicles to hospital for dialysis and returning without any means of transportation.
老人不会使用共享单车，结果从做透析的161医院，通过长江二桥，走了3个多小时才到家。
The elderly could not share their bikes, so it took them more than three hours to get home from the 161 hospital on dialysis, across the Yangtze River Er Bridge.
和有些社区对患者出行“只送不接”不同，杜勇的车队对就医的居民“又送又接”。
Unlike some communities, where patients are allowed to travel, Du Yong's motorcade "sends and receives" residents seeking medical treatment.
“患慢性病、时常要打针、要坚持做透析的很多都是老人，你不接他们真的什么办法都没有。
"A lot of people who suffer from chronic diseases, have needles, and insist on dialysis are old people, and there's nothing you can do without them.
”杜勇说。
"said Du.
不止一次，杜勇在医院门口接本社区的透析病人时，会遇到其他市民的求助，“能不能把我带到某某社区？”杜勇却只能狠狠心选择拒绝，并建议对方联系社区或者路口的民警。
On more than one occasion, Du Yong met with other members of the public when he picked up dialysis patients from his community at the gate of the hospital.
“我也是这样和车队里的师傅们交待的，其他居民，我们不了解他们的具体身份和身体情况，这对于我的乘客还有司机来说都有极大的风险。
"So did I with the teachers in the caravan. The rest of the population, we didn't know their identities and bodies, and it was a great risk for my passengers and the driver.
”这个时候，他只能选择将自己的同情心收起来。
"At this point he had to choose to put away his sympathy.
杜勇认为，他们的工作非常依赖社区，社区掌握全体居民的具体情况，包括发热与否、亲友接触等等细节，经过社区筛选之后，志愿司机才好开展工作。
Du believed that their work depended heavily on the community, which had the details of the entire population, including fever, contact with relatives and friends, etc., before the volunteer drivers could carry out their work after community screening.
来到社区的第三天，杜勇从居委会书记那里接到了一个不寻常的出行需求。
On his third day in the community, Du Yong received an unusual travel request from the neighborhood committee secretary.
一位社区居民因父亲新冠肺炎去世，需要紧急前往殡仪馆。
A community resident who died of his father's pneumonia was rushed to the funeral home.
社区书记向杜勇确认了两点，两人并未发热，且老人住在黄陂区，不和需要乘车的这对小夫妻住在一起。
The community secretary confirmed two points to Du Yong. They were not feverish, and the old man lived in Huangpi District with the couple, who needed a ride.
杜勇听完介绍后没有犹豫，接下了这单活儿。
Du Yong listened to the introduction without hesitation, and then took up the job.
“两位家属看起来年龄都不大，30岁出头的样子，很悲伤。
"Both families look very young and sad in their early thirties.
老人应该也不是特别高龄，真的是很可惜。
It is a pity that the old should not be too old.
”杜勇告诉《财经》记者，“我能理解家属的心情，路上并没有和他们搭话。
Du told Caijing, "I can understand my family's feelings, and I didn't talk to them on the way.
”其实，那个时候，杜勇的心情很复杂，他想起前几日在网上看到的家属来不及见逝去亲人最后一面而嚎啕大哭的视频，“看的时候，我心都碎了。
"In fact, at the time, Du was in a complicated mood, remembering the video he'd seen online the other day wailing loudly before family members had time to see the last of their loved ones.
现在情势特殊，我们会怕晚了一步，就见不到了。
Now the situation is so special that we will be afraid of being a little late and not seeing each other.
”杜勇记得，年轻夫妇在车上电话不断，两人对电话那边重复着一句话，“快到了，快到了。
"Du remember the young couple talking on the phone all the time and repeating to each other," It's almost here, it's almost there.
”那天没有堵车，十分钟左右杜勇就将他们送到了汉口殡仪馆，见父亲最后一面。
There was no traffic jam that day, so about ten minutes Du Yong took them to the Hankou mortuary to see his father for the last time.
杜勇在向《财经》记者回忆时仍忍不住感慨：“你说在天灾面前，唉，我们就做点力所能及的事情吧，尽力帮到别人。
"You said that in the face of natural disasters, alas, we should do what we can to help others," Du said, recalling to Caijing.
但有些事情真的是心有余而力不足。
But some things are really willing but not enough.
”“我在后座准备了一点吃的给你们”37岁的李建成为网约车司机之前，曾跑过几十个国家，做化学品运输。
"" I prepared a little food for you in the back seat, "said Li, 37, who had traveled dozens of countries to transport chemicals before becoming a nettie driver.
回国后他和朋友一起做过摄影生意，在2018年正式加入滴滴出行。
After returning home, he and his friends did photography business, in 2018 formally joined drip travel.
李建目前的志愿服务地点在武汉洪山区的杨春湖社区，他是社区的五位志愿司机之一。
Li Jian, one of five volunteer drivers in the community, is currently serving in the Yangchun Lake community in the Hongshan area of Wuhan.
1月26日，加入志愿车队那天，李建发了一条朋友圈：“2003年‘非典’，我向单位主动申请义务献血。
On January 26, joining the volunteer convoy, Li Jianfa a circle of friends: "2003 'SARS', I volunteered to apply to the unit blood donation.
现在武汉爆发新型冠状病毒肺炎，我还是义无反顾向单位申请参加保障救援车队。
Now Wuhan outbreak of a new coronavirus pneumonia, I still unswervingly apply to the unit to participate in the rescue team.
作为一名志愿者我感到骄傲，不为名利，只因能为社会为家乡出点绵薄之力。
As a volunteer I feel proud, not for fame and wealth, just because of the community for the home of a small contribution.
助祖国能够早日抗胜病毒，保家人平安。
Help the motherland can fight the virus early, to ensure the safety of family.
”事实上，在发朋友圈之前，李建的报名过程并不顺利。
In fact, Li's registration process didn't go smoothly until he became a friend.
正在读小学六年级的儿子在听到爸爸的打算时立刻跳出来反对，“他哭着不让我去。
His son, who was in the sixth grade of elementary school, jumped up when he heard his father's plan. He cried and refused to let me go
”后来，李建百般劝解，一方面，选择性跟孩子说自己只是“帮忙拖大白菜、送快餐面”；一方面也努力与儿子沟通，“我们应该做一些能帮助到医生的事情”。
Later, Li tried to persuade his children that he was just "helping to tow cabbage and delivering instant noodles," while trying to communicate with his son that "we should do something to help the doctor."
最终，孩子总算答应。
At last the child consented.
因为疫情，李建将父母妻儿集中在一起，共同吃住，减少出行，总是在特定的时间一个人外出购买食材。
Because of the epidemic, Li Jian will parents and children together, eat and live together, reduce travel, always at a certain time alone to buy food materials.
他回忆，工作群中同事们报名的热情高涨，仅就其所在的工作群而言，当时共有约60名司机报名，最终录取了30名。
Colleagues in the work group were enthusiastic about signing up, he recalls, when about 60 drivers signed up for the job group alone.
“很多司机已经回家过年了，但仍然想冲到一线。
"A lot of drivers have been home for the Spring Festival, but still want to rush to the frontline.
只是因为‘封城’，他们有些人赶不回来，所以比较遗憾没有加入。
Only because of the 'closure', some of them can not come back, so more regret not to join.
”送患者就医以及从和平街道运输社区所需的物资，这些是李建作为志愿司机一天的日常工作。
"Taking patients to hospital and transporting community supplies from the streets of peace are part of Mr. Li's daily routine as a volunteer driver.
1月26日，大年初二，李建带社区一位60岁左右的糖尿病患者前往梨园医院换药。
January 26, New Year's Day, Li Jiandao a 60-year-old diabetic went to pear garden hospital to change medicine.
“糖尿病患者的伤口是很难愈合的，还会导致诸如发炎一类的并发症。
"Diabetic wounds are difficult to heal and can lead to complications such as inflammation.
这位患者需要每三天去换一次药。
The patient needs a change of medicine every three days.
”李建说。
"said Li Jian.
然而，驱车近10公里来到梨园医院，两人才发现，医院已经被征用。
However, driving nearly 10 kilometers to the Pear Garden Hospital, the two found that the hospital had been requisitioned.
一位工作人员告诉李建，医院已经不进行外伤的换药，他们需要前往厚德康医院。
Li Jian was told by a staff member that the hospital was no longer undergoing a trauma change and that they needed to go to Houdekang Hospital.
“折腾了一下午，药也没换成。
"" I haven't had any medicine for the afternoon.
”李建告诉《财经》记者，那时候因疫情爆发，家人又不在身边，出行不便的老人已经8天没有换药了。
Li told Caijing that by the time the outbreak hit and the family was not around, elderly people with limited mobility had not changed their medication for eight days.
屋漏偏逢连夜雨。
The house leaked during the night rain.
厚德康医院大年初六才接诊，上班时间为上午9点。
Hou Tak Kang Hospital only accept medical treatment on the sixth day of the year, 9: 00 a.m.
也就是说，最终病人拖了约十天才换上药，“老人那个时候伤口已经发炎了，几乎没有办法行走。
In other words, it took the patient about 10 days to change into the medicine. "The wound was inflamed and he could hardly walk.
”老人身边没有任何人照顾。
The old man had no one to look after.
第二次前往医院时，李建早早来到老人家门前，没有电梯，一步一步将老人从六层楼上扶下来。
When he went to the hospital for the second time, Li Jian came to the old man's door early.
按照常规，滴滴社区保障车队的司机每天早晨一般有一单行程是送医护人员上班。
As a general rule, drip-drip community-guaranteed-motorcades drivers send paramedics to work on one trip each morning.
滴滴出行针对医护人员上线了专门叫车功能，志愿司机则可以根据所在地及个人的具体情况抢单。
Drop-by-drop travel for medical personnel on-line special call function, volunteer drivers can according to the location and personal circumstances to seize tickets.
自1月24日起，滴滴出行陆续在武汉、上海、北京、厦门、宁波、南京等地组建医护保障车队，截至2月15日，已免费接送一线医务工作者20885名。
Since January 24, medical support convoys have been set up in Wuhan, Shanghai, Beijing, Xiamen, Ningbo and Nanjing. As of February 15, 20,885 front-line medical workers had been transported free of charge.
一天，李建载一名护士去第一医院上班。
One day, Li Jianzai a nurse went to the first hospital to work.
途中，护士打破沉寂，问李建为什么要做志愿者？李建回答，“能帮到你们这些战斗在一线的人，我很骄傲。
On the way, the nurse broke the silence and asked Li Jian why he volunteered. Li Jian replied, "I'm proud to be able to help you who are fighting on the front line.
”看着李建，护士又问，“您就戴这样一层口罩能行吗？”李建回答说，“毕竟现在物资有限，还是要把更好的物资给一线用。
"Looking at Li Jian, the nurse asked," Can you wear such a mask? "Li Jian replied," After all, the present is limited.
我们能节约一点是一点。
We can save a little bit.
”此后双方再无他言。
"Neither side spoke another word afterwards.
等护士下车离开后，李建等着红绿灯，回头一看才发现，她悄悄在车内留下了一些口罩。
When the nurse got off and left, Li Jian waited for the traffic light and looked back to see that she had quietly left some masks in the car.
“我真的非常感动。
"I was really touched.
”忙碌中之中，也有很多令志愿司机备受感动的“温暖时刻”。
In the midst of the rush, there are also "warm moments" when volunteer drivers are moved.
司乘双方往往没有太多交流，但是志愿司机们常常收到“意外的礼物”。
There is often not much communication, but volunteer drivers often receive "unexpected gifts."
杜勇收到过两次医护人员悄悄留下的口罩。
Du Yong received two masks quietly left by medical staff.
车队的同事还有收到酒精、消毒液的。
The team also received alcohol and disinfectant.
让大家都觉得颇为有趣的是，车队司机陈中还收到过护士留在车辆后座的零食。
Interestingly enough, Chen Zhong, the motorcade driver, also received a snack from a nurse left in the back seat of his car.
那单结束后，陈中收到护士的感谢短信：“师傅你们辛苦了，我在后面准备了一点吃的给你们。
After the order was finished, Chen Zhong received a thank-you note from the nurse. "Master, you have worked hard.
”社区保障车队均是临时组建，防疫物资短缺的情况在早期并不鲜见。
Community safety convoys were formed on an ad hoc basis, and shortages of epidemic prevention supplies were not uncommon in the early days.
司机肖肖曾经把一件一次性防护服穿了十天，司机邱岳刚开始工作时只有口罩防身。
The driver, Xiao Xiao, had worn a disposable protective clothing for 10 days, and the driver, Qiu Yue, had started working with a mask.
曹操出行相关人士介绍，物资最紧缺的时候主要是靠总部协调统筹，兄弟城市之间互帮互助，并且也接受了一定的社会捐赠。
Cao Cao travel-related people said that the most scarce material is the coordination and integration of headquarters, brother cities to help each other, but also received a certain amount of social donations.
2月3日，由社会爱心人士捐赠的600副护目镜、2000片口罩、7000副手套及200件防护衣，运送到曹操出行武汉运营中心。
On February 3, 600 sets of goggles, 2,000 masks, 7,000 gloves and 200 protective clothing donated by the caring community were delivered to Cao Cao Operations Centre.
1月30日，滴滴出行总裁柳青发布微博亦曾向社会求助，称滴滴需要采购大量防护服、医用外科口罩、N95口罩、电子体温计。
On January 30, Liu Qing, president of Drop-Drop Travel, announced that he had asked the community for help in purchasing a large quantity of protective clothing, medical surgical masks, N95 masks and electronic thermometers.
滴滴出行方面表示，公司一直在积极采购物资，国内外的货源都有，前线司机的防疫物资目前供应稳定。
Drop travel said that the company has been actively procurement of materials, domestic and foreign sources of goods, frontline drivers of epidemic prevention supplies are currently stable.
三小时跑五家超市只为买到生活物资每天五点半，天还没亮，姚林就会起床开始准备一天的工作。
Five supermarkets run for three hours Just to buy supplies everyday at 5: 30 a.m. Yao will get up and start preparing for the day's work.
他需要先要到约定地点将防疫物资进行清点，并将物资发放到志愿司机手中。
He needs to go to the appointed place to inventory the epidemic prevention materials and distribute them to the volunteer drivers.
在驱车从家前往其服务社区的20公里路途中，这位曹操出行保障车队队长除了一到两次必须下车量体温的短暂时间外，总是在和武汉另一位车队队长利用对讲机在进行工作对接。
On the 20-kilometer drive from his home to his community, Cao Cao, the captain of the Cao Cao caravan, had to get off the bus once or twice to take a temperature check.
农历大年初一这天，姚林和很多志愿司机一样，仍然没有休息。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, Yao Lin, like many volunteer drivers, still did not rest.
当天上午十点，他从社区出发，载一位中年女士前往超市购买生活物资。
At ten o'clock that morning, he set out from the community and took a middle-aged woman to the supermarket to buy supplies.
女士的丈夫彼时仍在外地，因武汉“封城”未能归家。
The woman's husband was still out of town at the time, unable to return home because Wuhan "closed the city."
她独自一人照料两个孩子。
She looks after two children all by herself.
家中食材及日用品已到了必添不可的地步，女士向所在社区求助，才有了这次行程。
Food and household items have been added to the point where the woman sought help from her community to make the trip.
其后的三个小时行程中，姚林带着女士跑了整整五家超市，三家都未开门营业。
For the next three hours, Yao and his wife ran through five supermarkets, three of which were closed.
后来，在另外的两家超市，两人终于购齐了女士所需生活物资。
Later, in two other supermarkets, the two finally bought all the necessary supplies for the ladies.
回至社区，午饭时间已过，姚林开始着手泡面。
Back in the community, after lunchtime, Yao began to make noodles.
这也是多数志愿司机解决午饭的方式。
This is how most volunteer drivers manage lunch.
姚林介绍，曹操出行有志愿司机数百名，主要服务青山区117个社区，每个社区3台-5台车。
Yao said Cao Cao traveled with hundreds of volunteer drivers, mainly serving 117 communities in Qingshan, three to five cars per community.
青山区的社区居民多在6000人-7000人，大一点的社区人数可能达到一万以上。
Most communities in Qingshan have between 6,000 and 7,000 inhabitants, and larger communities may number more than 10,000.
姚林日均需跑4趟-5趟，但他预测，随着居民前期储备生活物资逐渐用完，后期需求可能会有所增加。
Yao made four to five trips a day, but he predicted demand would likely increase later as residents ran out of supplies early on.
除此之外，作为车队队长，姚林需要密切关注各个社区的情况，随时协助调度和参与各类突发事件的解决。
In addition, as the team leader, Yao Lin needs to pay close attention to the situation of the various communities, help dispatch and participate in the resolution of all kinds of emergencies.
服务于杨春湖社区的志愿司机李建经历过一次突发行程。
Li Jian, a volunteer driver serving the Yangchun Lake community, experienced a sudden trip.
一天晚上8点多钟，李建晚餐刚刚吃了一半，社区打电话来了。
One night at more than 8: 00 pm, Li Jian just ate dinner, the community called.
原来，一位居民吃饭时鱼刺卡在了喉咙处，情况紧急。
It turned out that one of the residents had a fish bone stuck in his throat while eating, and it was urgent.
李建丢下饭碗，披上衣服迅速下楼，开车赶到社区，并将居民送至医院。
Leaving his job behind, Li quickly went downstairs, drove to the community and took the residents to hospital.
行程结束后，李建正在社区补填刚刚的派车单。
At the end of the trip, Li Jian was filling out the delivery order in the community.
一个新的订单又来了，因亲戚生病，两位社区居民需要立刻将制氧机送到另一社区。
A new order arrived, and two residents of the community had to send oxygen machines to another community immediately because their relatives were ill.
“90后”黄炳坤，大约一个月前加入曹操出行，恰好赶上疫情爆发，于是很快成为志愿车队的一员。
"90 after" Huang Bingkun, about a month ago to join Cao Cao travel, just in time to catch the outbreak, and soon became a member of the volunteer fleet.
黄炳坤不久前从北京某武警部队退伍，家乡在湖北仙桃，他服务的青山区下辖多个村庄。
Huang Bingkun recently retired from an armed police force in Beijing, his hometown in Hubei Xiantao, his service in the Qingshan area under the jurisdiction of a number of villages.
没有行程时，黄炳坤也需要在村委会待命。
When there is no itinerary, Huang Bingkun also needs to be on standby at the village committee.
几天前，黄炳坤如往常一样到社区报到，等待任务。
A few days ago, Huang Bing-kun reported to the community as usual, waiting for his assignment.
9点多钟，村民陈晨冲上村委会二楼，气喘吁吁向工作人员喊道，“我妈妈晕倒了，已经没有意识了”。
At more than nine o'clock, Chen Chen, a villager, rushed to the second floor of the village council and panted to the staff, "My mother fainted, unconscious."
原来，陈晨的母亲此前患有心脏方面的疾病，当日感到不适，陈晨出发的时候老人几乎已是人事不省。
Chen Chen's mother, who had previously suffered from heart disease, felt unwell that day, and Chen Chen set out almost unconscious.
事出紧急，黄炳坤迅速和陈晨前往其家中。
In case of emergency, Huang Bingkun and Chen Chen quickly went to his home.
村子的公路边上，黄炳坤看到，老人坐在椅子上，女儿正在旁边不停叫喊，希望得到母亲的回应。
Along the side of the village road, Huang Bingkun saw the old man sitting in a chair. His daughter was crying out for his mother's response.
“但是完全叫不醒，老人的脸色已经开始变了。
"But he couldn't wake up, and the old man's face was beginning to look different.
”黄炳坤回忆。
Huang Bingkun recalled.
在确认老人并未发烧后，黄炳坤协助陈晨将陈母抬上车赶往医院。
After confirming that the old man did not have a fever, Huang helped Chen Chen to take her to the hospital.
路上，女儿不停地叫着母亲，边哭边重复，“妈妈你一定要挺住，不能有事。
On the way, my daughter kept calling to her mother, crying and repeating, "Mom, you just have to hold on.
”但老人始终没有回应。
But the old man did not answer.
黄炳坤一路打着双闪，闯了红灯，第一时间将老人送到了10公里外的普仁医院急诊科。
Huang Bing-kun went through a red light and took the old man to the emergency department of Puren Hospital 10 kilometers away.
将老人抬下车的时候，“脸和嘴唇都已经煞白了”，黄炳坤至今心有余悸。
As he lifted the old man out of the car, "his face and lips were white," Huang said, still haunting him.
所幸，老人得到及时救治。
Fortunately, the elderly were treated in a timely manner.
也因此，社区打算就此事给黄炳坤颁发一面锦旗。
Therefore, the community intends to issue a flag to Huang Bingkun on this matter.
有过类似经历的还有黄炳坤的同事孙成，为了送社区内一位身体不适的孕妇前往医院，孙成也是一路双闪，违章闯了红灯， 并在确认病人得到收治后，向交通部门进行报备。
In order to send a sick pregnant woman from the community to the hospital, Sun went through a red light in violation of the regulations and made a report to the transportation department after confirming that the patient was admitted.
坚守在疫区一线并不容易。
Staying on the front lines of the epidemic is not easy.
经历了忙乱的20余天，杜勇仍然决定坚持。
After more than 20 hectic days, Du Yong decided to stick to it.
他内心无比清楚志愿司机们面对的风险。
He was keenly aware of the risks faced by volunteer drivers.
“如果我不做了，可能就要有新司机进来。
"If I don't do it, maybe a new driver will come in.
我们已经是高风险人群了，把这个高风险的数字就控制在现在这个群体可能是最理想的状态了。
We're already a high-risk group, and keeping this high-risk figure within our current population may be ideal.
”目前，滴滴出行、曹操出行等网约车平台都在多个城市成立了防疫服务站。
"At present, drip trip, Cao Cao travel and other online car platforms have set up epidemic prevention services in many cities.
截至2月10日，滴滴出行已在全国161个城市设立了司机防疫服务站，为司机们测量体温，发放口罩、消毒液等防疫物资，并帮助司机给车内外消毒，严把车辆及司机防疫关；曹操出行的防疫服务站也为坚守在一线的保志愿司机们测量体温，发放物资和进行整车消毒。
As of February 10, drip-drip clinics had been set up in 161 cities across the country to measure the temperature of drivers, dispense face masks, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention materials, and help drivers disinfect inside and outside the vehicles, strictly protect vehicles and drivers.
近日，曹操出行方面表示，将联合车企开发一款健康车型，将具备除菌消毒等特性，专有乘客舱喷雾消毒技术，并通过全封闭隔离双舱的设置保证乘客与司机的安全。
Cao Cao recently said he would develop a healthy model with features such as sterilization, exclusive passenger cabin spray disinfection and a fully enclosed double cabin to ensure the safety of passengers and drivers.
滴滴出行同样在升级防控措施。
Drop trips are also upgrading control measures.
这家网约车平台正在尝试给网约车加装前后排防护隔离膜，形成简易的车内安全仓，为网约车内再戴一层“透明口罩”，尽可能实施多重保护。
This network car platform is trying to add front and rear protective barrier film to the network car, form a simple in-car safety bin, for the network car wearing a layer of "transparent mask," as much as possible to implement multiple protection.
（文中志愿司机与居民均为化名）        交易担保 智选好店     《财经》2020年第4期     Mini Program   ▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
2007-9-19 19: 19 [hide] www.youtheme.cnCaijing 2020 Mini Program http: / / www.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) http: / / www.youtheme.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“摆渡人”：送医送药、送家属去殡仪馆见死者最后一面。
Wuhan "ferryman": to send medicine, to send family to the funeral parlour to see the deceased the last side.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“摆渡人”：送医送药、送家属去殡仪馆见死者最后一面";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在武汉这座几近停摆的城市里，数以千计的志愿司机们仍在“正常运转”，充当城市的“摆渡人”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; thousands of volunteer drivers at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; In Wuhan, a near-standstill city, thousands of volunteer drivers still
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
