“武汉封城具有史无前例的现代防疫实验意义”。
"Wuhan sealing city has the unprecedented modern epidemic prevention experiment significance."
徐菁菁。
Slowly Jing Jing.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
SARS17年后，新型冠状病毒肺炎再次对中国以及全球的防疫体系提出了严峻挑战。
Seventeen years after SARS, the new coronavirus pneumonia poses a serious challenge to China and the global epidemic prevention system.
尽管在20世纪，医学对已知传染性疾病进行了有效控制，但正如世界卫生组织所强调的那样，新型传染病仍是21世纪防疫大敌。
Despite the effective control of known infectious diseases in the twentieth century, emerging infectious diseases, as highlighted by the World Health Organization, remain the great enemies of epidemic prevention in the twenty-first century.
新型传染病带来的挑战在哪里？全球无处不在的超级城市对防疫带来了哪些挑战？卫生体制、社会与个人能够做出何种回应？记者 | 徐菁菁受访者 | 医学史专家、上海交通大学特聘教授、美国匹兹堡大学亚洲研究中心访问教授刘士永三联生活周刊：从目前的公开数据看，与一些恶性传染病相比，新型冠状病毒肺炎的死亡率并不是很高。
What are the challenges posed by the emergence of new infectious diseases? What challenges does the ubiquitous global megacities pose to immunization? What can health systems, society and individuals do? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
也有专家指出，大部分患者是轻症。
Experts also point out that most patients are mild.
但是，新冠疫情还是给人们带来了巨大的恐惧和不安。
However, the new crown still brings people great fear and uneasiness.
从医学史的角度，如何理解这种情绪？刘士永：乔万尼·薄伽丘的《十日谈》，描绘了1348年一群为了避疫逃入偏乡的男女，将疫病归咎于阶级矛盾与宗教腐败，反映出人性面对未知疾病时究责他人的本能反应。
Liu Siyong: Giovanni Bhagachu's Ten Days of Talk describes a group of men and women fleeing the epidemic in 1348, blaming class conflicts and religious corruption, reflecting the instinctive response of humanity to blame others for unknown diseases.
武汉封城前后，部分居民“外逃”以避瘟祸，外界对来自武汉者避之唯恐不及，就是《十日谈》的现代版，投射出人性面对未知威胁时的本能反应。
Wuhan, before and after the closure of the city, some residents "fled" to avoid the plague, the outside world from Wuhan people to avoid, is the modern version of the "Ten Days of Talk," projecting humanity's instinctive response to unknown threats.
既然面对未知，恐慌是人性的本能，那防疫就不得不把这层因素纳入考虑，并降低其可能的负面作用。
Since fear is the instinct of human nature in the face of the unknown, then vaccination has to take this factor into account and reduce its possible negative effects.
要消除这种恐慌，最重要的是一点是将“未知”化为 “已知”，或至少是“可预知”的状态。
The most important thing to dispel this fear is to turn the "unknown" into a "known," or at least "predictable," state.
这可以从人类流感历史的过程中获得一些启发：1918年的西班牙流感，就是在未知又新型的情况下传播的。
Some lessons can be drawn from the history of human influenza: the Spanish flu of 1918 was spread in unknown and new circumstances.
而在1960年代以后，人类对流感病毒与变异了解日增，加上疾病统计愈发精确，流病学家足以推估流行周期与病种特征，才会有每年不同配比的3或4价疫苗出来。
After the 1960 "s, growing knowledge of influenza viruses and mutations, together with increasingly accurate disease statistics, allowed rodents to estimate the epidemic cycle and disease type characteristics before producing 3 or 4-valent vaccines with different annual combinations.
典型案例就是，自2019年入冬以来美国暴发的变异B型流感，虽死亡人数已超越新冠肺炎，推估还将造成近6000例相关死亡个案，却并未引起社会恐慌，原因就在于流感普遍被认为是“已知”且“可控制”的流行病。
A case in point is the outbreak of influenza B in the United States since the beginning of the winter of 2019, which has already surpassed the new crown pneumonia and is estimated to have caused nearly 6,000 related deaths, without causing social alarm, owing to the widespread perception that influenza is a "known" and "controllable" epidemic.
而面对新冠肺炎，人类毫无历史基础予以分析，现在的许多推测除了根据病毒本身生物特征计算外，只能比之于不尽相同的SARS经验推估。
In the face of new crown pneumonia, there is no historical basis for human analysis, many of the current assumptions can only be based on biological characteristics of the virus itself, can only be compared with different SARS experience estimates.
这种科学论证上常态的不确定性，加上社会中SARS的阴影被唤起，大众、甚至政府，自然不免产生未知的恐慌。
The uncertainty of the normal state of scientific argument, coupled with the awakening of the shadow of SARS in society, has led to unsuspected panic among the general public and even the government.
三联生活周刊：您有一个观点，19世纪50年代以前，防疫工作经常仰赖“清洁”与“隔离检疫”两大工作，焦点是发现和隔离病人。
Triple Life Weekly: You have a point, before the 1850's, epidemic prevention often relied on "clean" and "quarantine" work, the focus of which was the detection and isolation of patients.
而到19世纪下半叶，由于确定了细菌与疫情间的病理关系，这才将防疫政策的焦点由隔离病人转变为阻绝病菌传播。
By the second half of the 19th century, when the pathological relationship between bacteria and the epidemic was established, the focus of vaccination policy shifted from isolating patients to preventing the spread of the disease.
具体来说，这种认识和观念的转变如何改变了防疫实践？刘士永：这类的例证不少，最常见的就是检疫法规与行为的改变。
Liu Shiyong: There are many examples of this kind, the most common is the change of quarantine laws and behavior.
在东亚，1886年，日本暴发全国性霍乱疫情。
In East Asia, a nationwide cholera epidemic broke out in Japan in 1886.
内务省卫生局将极其严格的检疫与区域封锁制度引入首都东京，强制居民隔离，甚至是搬迁。
The Health Bureau of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has introduced an extremely strict quarantine and regional closure regime into the capital, Tokyo, to force residents to be isolated or even relocated.
二战以前，乘客罹患法定传染病或船只来自疫区时，以麻风为例，如无适当的健康证明，都必须进行绝对隔离。
Prior to the Second World War, when passengers suffered from a statutory infectious disease or when a ship came from an infected area, leprosy, for example, had to be placed in absolute isolation without proper medical certification.
民国初年甚至广东、广西，还发生过集体枪杀或活埋疑似麻风患者的恐怖例子。
In the early years of the Republic of China, even Guangdong and Guangxi, mass shootings and suspected leprosy sufferers occurred.
但随着麻风杆菌的生物特征与致病机转的确认，有效药物的研制，人们可以依据这些知识发展并施行居家治疗。
But with the confirmation of the biological characteristics and pathogenesis of leprosy bacillus and the development of effective drugs, people can develop and carry out home treatment based on this knowledge.
遂在1970年代后，既有的绝对隔离法规，乃至于相应设立的麻风村、麻风院，逐渐淡出隔离医疗模式，而转为居家与门诊治疗的主流模式。
Thus, after the 1970s, the existing absolute isolation laws and regulations, even the corresponding Jatropha villages and leprosy homes, gradually phased out of the isolated medical model and turned into a mainstream model of home and outpatient treatment.
类似的例子非常多。
There are many similar examples.
蔡小川 摄在病原确定、传染媒介清楚，与并有快速试剂的发明下，多数法定传染病从14天严格隔离检疫，逐渐变为自我隔离与居家护理；这就是因为防疫重点转为消灭病菌，而非染病的人。
Cai Xiaochuan has moved from strict quarantine of most statutory infectious diseases from 14 days of strict quarantine to self-isolation and home-based care, thanks to the identification of pathogens, clear vectors of infection, and the invention of rapid reagents.
值得附带一提的是，过去，在有效药物未能出现前，隔离并不如外界想象般地施以妥善治疗和安置，其隐含的更多是“坐以待毙、勿祸延他人”的思考。
It is worth mentioning that, in the past, isolation was not treated and placed as well as imagined until effective drugs were available, implying more of a "sit-and-die" mentality.
有积极治疗、照护意义的隔离病院得是1970以后的事了，而此时也是居家自我隔离兴起的时刻。
Isolated homes with an active therapeutic, caring purpose have been around since 1970, and this is the moment when home isolation has arisen.
由是可见，确认病原、有效治疗，是改变这一防疫模式相当关键的技术基础。
It is obvious that identification of pathogen and effective treatment are the key technical basis to change this epidemic prevention pattern.
三联生活周刊：但在面对新型传染病的时候，我们还是回到了“清洁”与“隔离检疫”的模式中，甚至于，我们采用了“封城”。
Triple Life Weekly: But in the face of new infectious diseases, we still return to the "clean" and "quarantine" mode, and even we use the "closed city."
我们注意到，这个做法并不是没有争议。
We note that this approach is not without controversy.
刘士永：发现病菌，并针对之加以消灭，成为预防医学尤其是疫苗、免疫预防或治疗上很重要的思考逻辑，但这样的防疫手段基本上是建立在科学医学能及时发现并了解致病细菌的基础上。
Liu Siyong: It is very important to find out the pathogen and destroy it. It becomes an important thinking logic in preventive medicine, especially vaccine, immune prevention or treatment.
若是病原未明，如何能有效防疫甚至治疗？过去细菌型传染病如霍乱、鼠疫，或是一般的寄生虫症等能够逐渐被控制住，其前提是微生物学家能够了解致病细菌，医师与药物发明者能因此发展适当的预防、检验与治疗药物。
If the cause is unknown, how can effective prophylaxis or even treatment be achieved? Bacterial infectious diseases such as cholera, plague, or parasite in general can be brought under control gradually, provided that microbiologists are able to understand the pathogenic bacteria and that physicians and drug inventors are able to develop appropriate prophylactic, diagnostic and therapeutic drugs.
但这个过程花了将近一个世纪的时间。
But the process took nearly a century.
1910-1911年东北鼠疫爆发时，当时的鼠疫菌检验需要7-10天的细菌培养。
When the Northeastern plague broke out in 1910-1911, bacterial cultures of 7-10 days were required for plague testing at that time.
问题是根据后来医学史学家推估，1911年肺鼠疫的传染率R0在7以上，简单说，一个人可以传染7个人左右，因此以7天检验空窗期来算，已经爆发蔓延了！此外，在没有抗生素的年代，鼠疫患者只能用支持性治疗，一旦营养、医疗不足，当然个案死亡率会提高甚多。
The problem is that, according to later medical historians, the infection rate of pneumonic plague in 1911 was above 7. Simply put, one person can infect about seven people, so a seven-day window test would have spread.
骤升的死亡个案与死亡率，又不免造成更新一波的恐慌。
The sudden rise in deaths and deaths has led to a new wave of panic.
但到了近年来爆发的几次局部性鼠疫疫情，比如1992年的印度北部鼠疫，一旦知道是鼠疫，医生便能用已知的方法和药物治疗；就算病因未明且没有抗生素，单凭现在的常态性支持疗法，平均天数也能支持患者超过五天。
But by the few localized outbreaks of plague that have occurred in recent years, such as the plague in northern India in 1992, doctors have been able to treat it with known methods and drugs once it is known; even if the cause is unknown and no antibiotics are available, the average number of days alone can support a patient for more than five days.
现代的鼠疫检验技术只需3-5天即可识别和控制鼠疫菌，医界自然能把过去认为严重的鼠疫疫情控制在一定范围内。
Modern plague detection takes only 3-5 days to identify and control plague bacteria, and the medical community is naturally able to contain what used to be a severe plague outbreak.
我们现在面对的情形是：20世纪，医学对已知传染性疾病进行了有效控制，在1980年后人类已经将焦点转向老年与遗传性疾病如三高、癌症，或帕金森症等。
We are now faced with a situation in which, in the twentieth century, medicine effectively controlled known infectious diseases, and since 1980 humanity has shifted its focus to old age and hereditary diseases such as trichomoniasis, cancer or Parkinson's disease.
2003年暴发的SARS疫情是对这波近百年对现代医学乐观浪潮的当头棒喝，随之而来的禽流感（H5N1）、中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒（MERS），甚至是这波新冠肺炎（2019-nCoV），都呼应着世卫组织强调新型传染病才是21世纪防疫大敌的说法。
The outbreak of SARS in 2003 was the culmination of a century of optimism about modern medicine, followed by avian influenza (H5N1), the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), and even this new wave of coronary pneumonia (2019-nCoV), echoing the WHO's assertion that emerging infectious diseases are the enemy of the twenty-first century.
近几十年来对冠状病毒的了解多属动物性传染病，这也造成一旦这类病毒入侵人体后第一时间在临床上难以察觉，医学界也需要相当时间才能发现并了解其病理特征。
Much of the knowledge about the coronavirus in recent decades has been of an animal-borne nature, making it clinically difficult to detect the coronavirus once it invades the body, and it will take time for the medical community to discover and understand its pathologic features.
2003年至今，大概也只有6-7种引起人类疾病的冠状病毒被判断出来。
From 2003 to the present, only about 6-7 coronavirus causing human disease have been identified.
三联生活周刊：我们今天在面对新型传染病的时候施行“隔离”，还面临着一个新的问题——现代城市。
Triple Life Weekly: We are today in the face of new infectious diseases in the "isolation", but also face a new problem - the modern city.
武汉是一座超大都市，而全球现在有许多巨型城市，它们对于防疫的挑战在哪里？卫生专家对于该如何有效进行城市防疫是否还存在争议？刘士永：首先，这问题牵涉到现代流行病学如何进行检疫与防疫。
Wuhan is a mega-metropolis, and there are so many mega-cities in the world, where are the challenges to immunization? Health experts are disputing how to effectively carry out urban epidemic prevention? Liu Shiyong: First, it concerns how modern epidemiology carries out quarantine and epidemic prevention.
在细菌学的思考下，一旦确认病原菌，就能根据其致病机转、传播特性进行检疫和防堵，甚至是治疗。
In bacteriological thinking, once the pathogen has been identified, it can be quarantined, blocked or even treated according to its pathogenic mechanism and transmission characteristics.
这些基本原则在面对病毒型传染病时一样有意义，只是因为病毒致病的基本逻辑还是和细菌不太相同，因此效果有时比较难以确定和预估。
These basic principles are just as relevant in the face of viral infections, simply because the underlying logic of the virus is still not the same as that of bacteria, so the effects are sometimes more difficult to determine and predict.
如果民众凭借对过去细菌型疾病控制的乐观态度来要求病毒型疾病，过度自信的态度就可能引发过激的失望与恐惧。
If people demand viral diseases on the basis of optimism about past bacterial disease control, an overconfident attitude can trigger extreme disappointment and fear.
从流行病行为学的角度来说，1854年英格兰伦敦市苏荷区爆发的一起严重的霍乱传染事件，是现代公卫防疫的先驱事件。
From the point of view of epidemiology, the outbreak of a severe cholera epidemic in Suzhou, London, England, in 1854 was a precursor to modern public health and epidemic prevention.
该事件中，内科医生约翰·斯诺通过研究发现，霍乱的传染源并非是空气，而是污染后的水源。
In the case, physician John Snow found through research that cholera is not transmitted from the air, but from contaminated water.
这一发现深刻影响了19世纪以来的现代公共卫生思潮，并促使政府改善卫生设施。
This discovery has profoundly influenced modern public health thinking since the 19th century and prompted governments to improve sanitation.
之后，“疫源中心（epic）”被定义为描述有利于感染传播的地方。
Afterwards, "epicenter" is defined as a description of an area conducive to the spread of infection.
需要说明的是，斯诺医师并非细菌学的前驱者，但从疾病统计与个案的空间分布中发现个案都与某一支公共给水龙头有关。
It is important to note that Dr. Snowe is not a pioneer in bacteriology, but both the disease statistics and the spatial distribution of cases have been linked to a public tap.
斯诺仰赖的不完全是细菌学，而是统计与观察。
Snow did not depend entirely on bacteriology, but on statistics and observation.
此次武汉被归类为疫源中心，就是这种思考、分析法下的产物。
Wuhan has been classified as the epizootic center, which is the product of such thinking and analysis.
但相对来说，不管是验出病菌或统计确认行为疫源中心，都需要有大量的历史资料作为依据。
However, it is necessary to have a great deal of historical data to prove the pathogen or the center of statistical confirmation.
面对新型疫病，防疫专家面对的是一个未知且动态发展的疫情。
Facing the new epidemic disease, epidemic prevention experts are facing an unknown and dynamic development of the epidemic.
“新型”所代表的科学上的无知与未知，加上现代交通工具与群聚城市的环境，更让病菌变异风险增加、行为传染确认变得十分困难。
The scientific ignorance and unknown represented by the "new", combined with modern means of transportation and urban agglomeration, make it very difficult to increase the risk of pathogen mutation and confirm the behavior infection.
如今，从东京到上海，超大都市（megacity）无所不在。
From Tokyo to Shanghai, megacities are now ubiquitous.
维系这种超大都市的正是现代的运输与通讯系统。
It is modern transportation and communication systems that sustain such megalopolises.
快速的运输也是病原流通加速的管道，高度聚集的人口正是细菌变异、交互感染的温床。
Rapid transportation is also a conduit for the acceleration of pathogen circulation, and a highly concentrated population is a hotbed of bacterial variation and cross-infection.
远征 摄传统的隔离方式在SARS出现社区感染时，成为社区隔离封闭的原型。
The traditional isolation method of expeditionary photography becomes the prototype of community isolation and isolation when community infection occurs in SARS.
类似做法当时在世界各国都出现了。
A similar practice appeared in all countries of the world.
但2007年以后有越来越多的研究也发现，都市的许多公共下水道、排污风管，甚至是家户栋距不足，其实都让传统隔离社区成效不彰。
But a growing body of research since 2007 has also found that many urban public sewers, sewer pipes, and even individual houses are inadequate, making traditional segregated communities ineffective.
因此有学者就认为，SARS的疫情下降，恐怕跟气候因素及病毒本身的衰变有更大的关系。
Therefore, some scholars believe that the SARS epidemic decline, I am afraid that the weather factors and the virus itself have a greater relationship to decay.
于是新的问题来了，社区隔离的基本单位应该是什么？传统上以人口分区(村)居住隔离的思考显有不足，那是否以公共运输和管线为单位？这恐怕也有所不足。
So new questions arise as to what the basic unit of community segregation should be.Traditional thinking about residential segregation by population division (village) is inadequate, and whether it is based on public transport and pipelines, which is probably not enough.
以上海为例，我曾计算过1930年代上海人平均通勤工作的距离是3.8公里，平均家户取水半径都在一公里内。
In Shanghai, for example, I calculated that the average Shanghai commuter's distance to work in the 1930 "s was 3.8 kilometers, and the average household water intake radius was within one kilometer.
现在这距离光是地铁两站间与公共自水管道长度都不止，一旦感染者进行日常移动或污染水源释出扩散，其影响必然超过地表的行政分区与小区范围。
Now the distance between the subway stations and the length of the public self-water pipeline is not only long, once the infected people to carry out daily movement or the release of contaminated water sources, the impact is bound to exceed the surface of the administrative divisions and sub-areas.
因此当时针对苏州河、黄浦江沿岸居民做防疫区域管制，甚至是隔绝某些地区的水源是有防疫作用的；现代这样的做法显然就力有未逮。
Thus, it was obvious that the current practice of controlling the epidemic areas along the Suzhou and Huangpu Rivers, or even isolating certain areas from water sources, was inadequate.
另外，也可以SARS期间的香港小区封闭研究来看，住户大楼公用通风管、公共排污粪管都曾检出病毒，成为最初分楼层封锁无效的原因之一。
In addition, according to the closed study of Hong Kong community during SARS period, virus was detected in the communal ventilation pipes and public sewage pipes, which was one of the reasons for the ineffectiveness of the original sub-floor blockade.
三联生活周刊：那么现在国际上在应对大都市防疫方面有哪些通行的做法？关注的重点是什么？刘士永：当前有关防疫的讨论经常都会以战备的模式思考。
Triple Life Weekly: So what are the current international practices in dealing with epidemic prevention in metropolises? What are the major concerns? Liu Siyong: The current discussions on epidemic prevention are often conducted in a war-ready mode.
要说明一点的是，“检疫”主要是防患未然，而“防疫”则讲究的是疫情发生后的制敌机先。
To make a point, "quarantine" is mainly prevention, while "epidemic prevention" is about the outbreak of the enemy before the first.
据我所知，美国有一套战时防疫的基本模式，大致上借鉴了过去毒气战的经验以及核生化防护的概念，要求将防疫视同作战。
As far as I know, the United States has a basic war-time epidemic prevention model, which is largely based on past experience with poison gas warfare and the concept of nuclear, chemical and biological protection.
现行CDC的检疫与防疫规范，也被搬到海外战场与归乡军人，甚至是NASA的宇航员身上。
The current CDC quarantine and epidemic prevention standards have also been moved to overseas battlefield and homecoming military personnel, even NASA astronauts.
其中具体细节非常繁复，不妨参考一下1999年电影《病毒》（Virus）和2011年的《感染：入侵开始》（Infections），都能看到实际运作的部分片段。
The details are complex, and you can refer to the 1999 movies Virus and 2011 Infections: Insects, where you can see some of the parts that actually work.
日本为应付关东地区发生直下型地震有一套应变模式，里面也有一些分区防疫的思考。
Japan has a set of strain mode to deal with the earthquake in the east of Guandong area.
这些思考除了考虑硬体建设外，也关注了非常多的对于其都市运行模式和城居人口移动的基本数据。
In addition to considering the hard-body construction, these thoughts also pay attention to a lot of basic data about its urban operation mode and urban population movement.
而这些经常性收集的常态数据正是让防疫应急措施有效、准确性的关键。
And these regular data collected frequently are the key to make the epidemic prevention emergency measures effective and accurate.
这些不完全是预防医学里的病毒研究，更多的是社会行为学、人口学，甚至是医学史、疾病史的理解及运用。
These are not exactly viral research in preventive medicine, but rather the understanding and application of social behavior, demography, and even medical history, disease history.
现代都市主要是依赖数字管理，防疫也是如此，如何扩大必要资讯的收集，强化公众对官方统计的信任，乃至于加速防疫反应时间（而不是完全根据医学检验时间），都是过去20年来公卫学界的讨论重点。
Modern cities rely mainly on digital management, as does epidemic prevention, and how to expand the collection of necessary information and strengthen public trust in official statistics, or even speed up the response time for immunization (rather than solely on the basis of medical testing time), has been the focus of public health academia for the past 20 years.
三联生活周刊：您如何看待武汉“封城”的意义和作用？刘士永：武汉封城具有史无前例的现代防疫实验意义。
Lifestyle Weekly: What do you think of the significance and function of Wuhan "closed city"? Liu Shiyong: Wuhan Fengcheng has unprecedented significance in modern epidemic prevention experiment.
我们日后可以通过检视它去厘清：是否可以沿用传统交通阻绝、区域隔离的方式，来处理巨大城市的疫情扩散。
We can look at it later to see if it is possible to tackle the spread of the epidemic in large cities through traditional means of traffic denial and regional isolation.
前面提到过传统分区封锁在SARS期间已出现诸多困难，是否该更扩大封锁至全城，人们很难不这样考虑。
It is difficult not to consider whether the traditional zoning blockade, which was already experiencing difficulties during the SARS period, should be extended to the whole city.
再者，尽管此次新冠肺炎与春运的关系尚未见具体研究，但以国内高铁速度之快、当前自驾的便捷，人们不得不考虑扩散加速这个问题，由此设立阻绝点（封城）也是选项。
Moreover, although the relationship between the new crown pneumonia and Chunyun has not been studied in detail, the speed of high-speed rail in China and the ease with which self-driving forces are driving make it necessary to consider accelerating the spread of the problem.
蔡小川摄目前看，封城的效果及影响初现。
Cai Xiaochuan at present, the effect of the closure of the city and the initial impact.
从相对好点的角度来说，武汉作为主要疫源地的形象建立起来，是有助于周边地区和国家做有效防堵的。
From a relatively good point of view, Wuhan as the main focus of the establishment of the image, is conducive to the surrounding areas and countries to do effective blocking.
但从全球防疫的角度看，其实仍存在一些其他的问题。
But from a global epidemic prevention perspective, there are other problems.
新冠肺炎的医学确诊方式主要是透过病毒核酸检测，但究竟哪些疑似个案需要进行采检，却与各国家与地区的卫生主管机关所定的“疑似个案”标准有关。
New crown pneumonia is mainly diagnosed by viral nucleic acid testing, but the suspected cases need to be examined, but the "suspected case" criteria established by the health authorities of various countries and regions.
台湾地区之前将14天前的中国大陆旅游史或居住史当作流行病学条件。
The Taiwan region had previously made the history of travel or residence in mainland China 14 days ago an epidemiological condition.
只有符合上述流行病学条件，并出现特定临床症状的个案，才会采检送验是否为新冠病毒感染个案。
Only cases that meet the above epidemiological conditions and show specific clinical symptoms will be examined for a new crown virus infection.
倘若是14天前只去过例如日本或泰国旅游，回国后虽出现类流感症状的患者，一般来说医疗机构只当成流感处理。
For those who have travelled only 14 days ago, such as Japan or Thailand, and returned home with symptoms of influenza-like illness, medical institutions are generally treated only as influenza.
采用类似作法的还有日本、南韩，东南亚等地。
Similar practices are used in Japan, South Korea, Southeast Asia and other places.
但一些欧洲国家，如英国，则将包括泰国、日本等地的旅游史都当作是需要进一步采检送验的可能个案（possible cases）。
However, some European countries, such as the UK, regard their tourism history, including that of Thailand and Japan, as possible cases requiring further inspection.
这个差异与与各国防疫卫生主管机关对其他国家疫情风险有不同评估的结果有关，也可能与考虑旅游人口总数与各自的防疫能量有关，但这也可能会影响“确诊个案”被“发现”的比例，甚至无意中隐匿新冠肺炎发生社区感染的可能性。
This difference is related to the findings of different national epidemiological authorities in assessing the risk of outbreaks in other countries. It may also be related to the consideration of the total number of tourists and their respective vaccination energies, but it may also affect the proportion of "confirmed cases" being "discovered," even inadvertently concealing the possibility of community infection with new crown pneumonia.
主要的关键恐怕还是在于WHO统计各国流行状况时，对于各国如何界定疑似个案，好像并没有统一的标准。
The main issue, perhaps, is that there seems to be no uniform standard for how countries define suspected cases when the WHO counts the prevalence of each country.
在这种对新冠肺炎临床疑似病例分类的模糊情况下，具体的城市、国家，乃至于区域，都会在全球防疫网的思考中成为一个“点”，而各自加以考虑是否加以封锁。
In this vague classification of suspected cases of new crown pneumonia, specific cities, countries, and even regions will become a "point" in the thinking of the global epidemic prevention network, and each will consider whether to block it.
2月之后许多国家宣布对中国航线中断，其中也有类似的思考。
A similar thought came after February, when many countries announced disruptions to their routes to China.
三联生活周刊：世界卫生组织强调新型传染病才是21世纪防疫大敌。
Triple Lifestyle Weekly: WHO stresses that new infectious diseases are the enemy of epidemic prevention in the 21st century.
面对这个大敌，我们还有哪些功课需要补足？刘士永：我们需要重新检视我们的公共卫生体系。
What lessons do we need to fill in the face of this enemy? Liu Siyong: We need to re-examine our public health system.
以台湾地区和大陆过去在公共卫生上的成就来说，两者有许多相似之处。
In terms of past achievements in public health in the Taiwan region and the mainland, there are many similarities.
在1950到1970年代，两岸公卫体系都曾在疾病——尤其传染病——防治方面身经百战，却也成果辉煌。
In the 1950 "s and 1970" s, both sides of the public-health system fought diseases - particularly infectious diseases - with remarkable success.
霍乱、痢疾、疟疾、日本脑炎、肺结核、小儿麻痹等传染病在台湾地区消失或受到控制；而大陆也成功消灭性病，控制鼠疫、疟疾、血吸虫病、霍乱、天花、白喉、肺结核等疾病。
Infectious diseases such as cholera, dysentery, malaria, Japanese encephalitis, tuberculosis and polio have disappeared or been brought under control in Taiwan, while the mainland has succeeded in eliminating sexually transmitted diseases and controlling diseases such as plague, malaria, schistosomiasis, cholera, smallpox, diphtheria and tuberculosis.
中华人民共和国建立的前30年，公卫体系政策遵循以预防为主、医疗为辅的原则；而台湾地区则是以“预防胜于治疗”为最高指导方针。
In the first 30 years after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the public health policy was guided by the principle of prevention first and medical care second.
但后来医疗为主、预防为辅的原则，渐渐主导了两岸的公卫政策走向，两岸的公卫体系在过去数十年间，都经历公卫体系医疗化、医疗体系商品化、市场化、扩大化，公卫体系因而严重弱化，而社会与政府更侧重于医学或医疗防治的本身。
Over the past decades, the public health system on both sides of the Straits has undergone a medicalization, commodification, marketization and expansion of the public health system, which has seriously weakened the public health system, while society and the Government have focused more on medical or medical prevention and treatment per se.
我想强调一点，公卫的重心一直都在防患于未知，备战于平时。
I would like to stress that the centre of gravity of public defenders has been in the prevention of unknown, in preparation for peacetime.
而预防医学则是歼敌需明确，或防堵于疫病发生后，两者的思考相当不同。
Preventive medicine is the enemy to be clear, or to prevent the occurrence of disease after the two are quite different thinking.
公卫防疫的现代版，不该只是预防医学的借鉴或药方，还需要涉及教育、行为、甚至是卫生文化的多方面思考。
The modern version of public health and epidemic prevention should not only be a reference or prescription for preventive medicine, but also involve many aspects of education, behavior and even health culture.
犹记得SARS刚消失时，世卫秘书长呼吁世人要从战“疫”中，学习面对未知传染病应有的基本卫生习惯和态度。
When SARS disappeared, the Secretary-General of the World Health Organization called on the world to learn from the "epidemic" the basic hygiene practices and attitudes towards unknown infectious diseases.
但从2003年到当前的新冠肺炎，社会大众与政府恐怕都还是以面对旧传染病控制的心态处理，如现在寄希望于肺炎新治疗药的问市，其实这些都过度简化了新药开发与病毒检验的复杂与耗时。
But from 2003 to the current outbreak of pneumonia, both the public and the government are likely to treat old infectious-disease-control attitudes, such as asking questions about new treatments for pneumonia, which have oversimplified the complexity and time-consuming task of developing new drugs and testing for viruses.
许多民间做法也凸显出一班人分不清空气传染、飞沫传染，与接触传染的差距。
Many folk practices also highlight the disparity between air-borne, foam-borne and contact-borne diseases.
我们还需要实现卫生现代性（modernity）。
We also need to achieve health modernity.
三联生活周刊：怎么理解卫生现代性（modernity）？刘士永：卫生现代化（modernization）与卫生现代性（modernity）是两组课题，前者涉及到制度、教育，与社会规训，而后者重视的是自我规范、民众及政府的自觉。
Lifestyle Magazine: How to understand health modernity? Liu Shiyong: Modernization of health, which deals with institutions, education, and social discipline, and modernity, which focuses on self-regulation, people, and government self-awareness.
举例来说，中国富裕后，中产阶级重视养生，于是传统与民间各种养生偏方都跑出来了，吃野味显然不是西方卫生的概念，却可能符合中国传统养生法。
In China, for example, the middle class's emphasis on health preservation led to the emergence of a variety of traditional and folk remedies. Game eating is clearly not a Western concept of hygiene, but may be in line with traditional Chinese health practices.
但个人养生却未必是公共卫生需要的。
But individual health care is not necessarily a public health necessity.
早期日本、现代俄国、南韩都也有过类似问题，但他们逐渐把传统的清洁观与现代卫生习惯融合。
Early Japan, modern Russia, and South Korea all had similar problems, but they gradually integrated the traditional view of cleanliness with modern hygiene practices.
如何去融合的过程是现代化，融合后的结果是现代性。
How to integrate the process is modernization, the result of integration is modernity.
另一个传统文化观念与公共卫生冲突的例子是，中国人强调勤劳的价值，抱病学习与上班是受人肯定的，但在传染病防控上却是大忌。
Another example of the conflict between traditional cultural concepts and public health is the emphasis placed by the Chinese on the value of hard work.
当1918年西班牙流感时，日本——另一个强调勤劳的价值的国家，就在学校假期过后让全国群聚感染瞬间爆发六倍多，这其中许多的传染源头，都是来自于不愿旷课的好学生。
When the Spanish flu struck in 1918, Japan - another country that emphasized the value of hard work - exploded a national pandemic more than six times immediately after school holidays, many of them from good students who did not want to miss school.
如果复工开学，必须做好防护措施。
If work resumes, protective measures must be taken.
本次疫情还有一个现象，中国人，包括台湾地区与海外华人都类似，我们戴口罩是为了防疫，怕吸入病菌，因此都是疫情爆发感到害怕才带。
There is another aspect of the epidemic. The Chinese people, including those in Taiwan, are similar to overseas Chinese. We wear masks to protect against disease and are afraid to breathe in germs.
人们的心态则是有口罩就多份保护，出门逛逛都无妨。
People's mentality is a mask on a number of protection, no harm to go out.
而在西方，人们戴口罩是防止自我传播病菌，因此是医疗建议或自我为公众负责的表现。
In the West, however, people wear masks to protect themselves from self-spreading germs and are thus a sign of medical advice or self-responsibility to the public.
这种现代卫生的自觉如何建立的？除了科学医学的进步，我们们还需要订定现代卫生教育、调整个人身体与国家民族的关系，改造传统社会与文化价值。
In addition to advances in scientific medicine, we need to develop modern health education, regulate the relationship between one's body and the nation, and transform traditional social and cultural values.
简言之，公共卫生要面对的不只是病，而是致病与传染的人的因素。
In short, public health is faced not only with disease, but also with the human factors that cause disease and infect.
事实上，每年春运与长假期间，返乡或返校、工作岗位后都有某些疫情升高的现象，其实这这些都是可以预测的。
In fact, every year during the Spring Festival and the long holidays, return to school or work, there is some increase in the incidence of certain diseases, which can be predicted.
如何从这些历史数据与经验中，学习到自主管理的必要性，甚至是留心个人价值与公共利益、风险的关联性，恐怕是我们在大疫过后，深入思索中国如何发展卫生现代性的一个关键环节。
How to learn from these historical data and experience, and even pay attention to the relationship between personal value and public interest and risk, is a key link for us to think deeply about how China develops health modernity after the pandemic.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please stamp [5prE5teiFEn] New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠特刊】。
Click to read the original text, enter the weekly bookstore, buy the new crown special issue.
徐菁菁。
Slowly Jing Jing.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“武汉封城具有史无前例的现代防疫实验意义”。
"Wuhan sealing city has the unprecedented modern epidemic prevention experiment significance."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“武汉封城具有史无前例的现代防疫实验意义”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新型传染病带来的挑战在哪里？全球无处不在的超级城市对防疫带来了哪些挑战？卫生体制、社会与个人能够做出何种回应？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Where is the challenge posed by new infectious diseases? What challenges does the ubiquitous global megacities pose to immunization? What can health systems, society, and individuals do?
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
