疫情下的海外华人：孤立、恐慌、种族歧视和鼓励。
Overseas Chinese in the Epidemic: Isolation, Panic, Racial Discrimination and Encouragement.
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
新型冠状病毒疫情发生后，除了国内民众举全国之力抗击病毒外，海外华侨华人也纷纷发起募捐，用自己的方式表达对祖国疫区同胞的牵挂。
After the outbreak of the new coronavirus epidemic, in addition to the national efforts to fight the virus, overseas Chinese have also launched fund-raising, in their own way to express their concern to compatriots in the infected areas of the motherland.
但是，随着疫情影响的加剧，继英国暂停中英航班后，已经有20个国家，作出了类似的决定，这个代价显然太过沉重。
But, as the epidemic intensifies, 20 countries have taken similar decisions, following the UK's moratorium on Chinese and British flights, a price that is clearly too high.
国际形势瞬息万变，每次国家发生重大公共事件，华人在海外遇到的情况，就会变得更加复杂多样。
With the rapid changes in the international situation, every time a major public event occurs in a country, the situation Chinese encounter overseas will become more complex and diverse.
17年前的非典经历，让很多海外华人记忆犹新，中餐馆倒闭，中国超市冷清，华裔被歧视，国家被歧视。
The SARS experience 17 years ago left many overseas Chinese fresh in their memories, Chinese restaurants closed, Chinese supermarkets deserted, Chinese people discriminated against and the country discriminated against.
这一次，他们又将会遭遇什么样的经历，是感受到异国他乡的温暖，还是要以华人身份，经受又一次的伤害？我们找了几个国家的海外华人，聊了聊他们正在经历的当下。
This time, what kind of experience will they encounter, whether they feel the warmth of a foreign country or suffer another injury as Chinese? We talked to overseas Chinese in several countries and talked about the present they are experiencing.
天灾面前，没有什么种族、国界和文化的隔阂，唯有如此，作为一个整体的“人类”，才能够持续走下去。
In the face of natural disasters, there are no ethnic, national or cultural barriers. Only in this way can "mankind" as a whole continue to move forward.
恐慌加剧，对华人种族歧视情绪蔓延加拿大陈川 华人工程师目前加拿大有3例。
There have been three cases of racial discrimination against Chinese engineers in Canada.
这次事件对我影响蛮大的，我本来计划3月1日要去四川参加表妹女儿婚礼，然后去昆明，3月底到北京见朋友，四月初回加拿大报税。
I had planned to go to Sichuan on March 1 to attend my cousin's daughter's wedding, then to Kunming, to meet my friends in Beijing at the end of March, and to return to Canada in early April.
现在不仅表妹家女儿的婚礼取消了，加拿大外交部也宣布，将包机将滞留在疫区的加拿大人带回家，并且提升中国的旅游警告级别，而且，加航今天也突然宣布，要全面停飞北京和上海的所有航班。
Not only has the cousin's daughter's wedding been canceled, the Canadian Foreign Office has announced it will take home Canadians stranded in the affected areas and upgrade China's travel warning, but also Air Canada announced today that it would suspend all flights to Beijing and Shanghai.
反正我是回不去了，上半年的计划得重新做。
Anyway, I can't go back, the first half of the plan has to be done again.
我回不去倒霉，我回去了的朋友遭遇也很窘迫，他原计划春节回中国贵州待10天，刚回到中国，疫情严重赶快买了机票回撤，没想到回来后的待遇，还不如国内。
He had planned to return to Guizhou, China, for the Spring Festival, and had just returned to China, where he had rushed back to buy an air ticket. He did not expect to receive the same treatment as at home.
朋友下了飞机后去见移民官，刚要摘口罩，移民官身体往后移了近半米，慌忙阻止，“不用不用摘，我在电脑上就能看见你的照片”，问他是否从武汉来？还装腔作势地咳了两声，赶紧挥手让他过了。
When the friend got off the plane and went to see the immigration officer, who was about to take off his mask, the immigration officer stepped back nearly half a metre and hurried to stop.
当时，朋友老婆去机场接的他，上车前从头到脚喷酒精，车内又喷了一遍，全程带口罩。
At that time, his wife went to the airport to pick him up, before getting on the car from head to foot spray alcohol, the car sprayed again, wearing a mask throughout.
朋友到家后，在车库就被脱得精光，全部衣裤直接进洗衣机，电梯到地下室，高温热水洗澡后干蒸半小时，才吃了一片披萨，为了消毒更彻底，朋友还喝了两个80度的台湾高粱酒。
When friends arrive home, they are stripped naked in the garage, all their clothes and trousers go straight to the washing machine, elevator to the basement, after a half-hour dry steam after a hot bath, then eat a slice of pizza, and to disinfect more thoroughly, friends drank two 80 degree Taiwanese sorghum bars.
女儿是只听其声不见其人，儿子5米外见了一面，上楼就再也不下来了。
The daughter is only listening to its voice to see the other people, the son met a 5 meters away, upstairs never to come down.
没办法，为了不给大家添乱，朋友自动在地下室闭关10天，全靠勇敢的老婆每天送吃送喝，果然是患难夫妻见真情。
No way, in order not to add chaos to everyone, friends automatically shut up in the basement for 10 days, all rely on the brave wife every day to send food and drink, really is suffering couples see the truth.
△ 加拿大航班停飞怎么说呢，加拿大自从经历了华为公主孟晚舟事件后，大家对中国人的态度，变得很复杂。
Canada's attitude towards the Chinese people has become very complicated since it experienced the incident of Princess Meng Evening Boat in Huawei.
这次疫情网上的声音也很嘈杂，各种消息都有。
The epidemic is also noisy online, with all kinds of news.
特别是多伦多接连出现两起冠状病毒感染病例之后，恐慌情绪开始蔓延，导致针对华人社区的种族主义情绪加剧。
In particular, after two consecutive cases of coronavirus infection in Toronto, panic began to spread, leading to increased racism against the Chinese community.
而且听说，这种疾病始于武汉的一个海鲜批发市场，网上的信息都说“在那里，商贩们合法地在狭小的空间里出售活体野生动物。
And it has been heard that the disease began at a wholesale seafood market in Wuhan, where information says "traders are legally selling live wildlife in tiny spaces.
”一时间，加拿大爱护动物和担心病毒感染的情绪迅速发酵。
For a while, the Canadian mood of love for animals and fear of infection quickly fermented.
在多伦多，许多市民把矛头对准了华人社区。
In Toronto, many citizens are targeting the Chinese community.
他们在网上发表各种充满无知和种族主义的言论，借着网络提供的匿名保护进行人身攻击。
They post a variety of ignorant and racist comments on the Internet, using anonymous protection provided by the Internet for personal attacks.
△ “我*恨透了这些中国人！先是维族人的事，现在又通过他们肮脏的食物让我们生病，我希望他们下地狱！”作为一位华人，这时候心理肯定很不好受。
"I * hate these Chinese! First about the Uighurs, and now we get sick through their dirty food. I hope they will go to hell!"
当然在这些极端的情绪里，也有一些理性的声音，说发表种族主义言论并不能阻止病毒的传播，良好的卫生习惯却能创造奇迹。
Of course, in these extreme emotions, there are rational voices that say that racist speech does not stop the spread of the virus, but that good hygiene practices work wonders.
人和人是不一样的，我们华人圈就在转一所加州小学，发给学生家长的邮件：每个人都会生病，不要因此而孤立中国人和任何你认为与中国有联系的人，更不要歧视生病的人，因为这样会让生病的人为自己生病而羞耻，从而隐瞒病情，不保护他人。
People and people are not the same, we in the Chinese community are transferring to a California elementary school an e-mail to parents: Everyone will get sick, so don't isolate the Chinese and anyone you think has connections with China, let alone discriminate against sick people, who would be ashamed to hide their illness and not protect others.
我们防的是病毒，而不是中国人。
We're defending the virus, not the Chinese.
越是危难之时，越需要冷静，理智，人性，团结。
The more at risk, the more need for calm, reason, humanity, unity.
学校没有给孩子灌输不好的情绪，这是让我欣慰的。
I'm glad the school hasn't instilled bad feelings in the children.
总之，我不想再看见我的中国和我的加拿大再次承受痛苦，17年前的非典经历，让每一个身在多伦多的华人记忆犹新，中餐馆倒闭，中国超市冷清，华裔被歧视，国家被歧视。
In short, I don't want to see my China and Canada suffer again. The SARS experience of 17 years ago left every Chinese in Toronto fresh in mind, Chinese restaurants failed, Chinese supermarkets were deserted, Chinese people were discriminated against and the country was discriminated against.
我们都是经历过大灾大难过来的人，历史的悲剧或许会重蹈覆辙，但同样人们打败困境的胜利也会重新上演。
We are all people who have experienced great disasters, and the tragedies of history may be repeated, but so too will the triumph of those who have overcome them.
中国一定会打赢这场防疫之战。
China is sure to win the battle against epidemic diseases.
现在外国人看见中国人，就像中国人看见武汉人一样以色列Joshua学生我在以色列，这边最近的中国游客已经没有那么多了。
Now foreigners see the Chinese like the Chinese see the Wuhan Israelis Josehua students I am in Israel, this side of the nearest Chinese tourists no longer so much.
今天刚知道，以色列航空公司暂停了到中国的所有航班，直到3月25日，未来应该不会再有中国游客来以色列。
As we just learned today, Israel Airlines suspended all flights to China until March 25, when no more Chinese tourists should visit Israel.
我一直关注国内疫情信息，身边很多外国朋友也都听说过。
I have been paying attention to the domestic epidemic information, many foreign friends have heard about it.
但在这，除了口罩被抢光外，什么都没有变化。
But here, nothing has changed except that the mask has been stripped of all its contents.
之前有个旅游团的领队请我朋友帮忙买500个口罩，一个也没买到。
There was a tour leader who asked my friend to help him buy 500 masks. None of them were bought.
我女朋友在当地另外一个语言学校，学希伯来语，一周两节课。
My girlfriend studied Hebrew at another local language school, having two classes a week.
以往上课，她身边很多同学，但这周二（28号）去上课的时候，身边一个人也没有，大家都自动离她远远的，生怕被感染。
She used to have classes, but when she went to class on Tuesday (28th), there was nobody around. Everyone left her alone for fear of getting infected.
事实上，我们一直在这上学，一年多没离开以色列了。
In fact, we've been here for over a year and haven't left Israel.
一个泰国朋友跟我说：现在外国人看见中国人，就像中国人看见武汉人一样。
A Thai friend said to me: Now foreigners see the Chinese just as the Chinese see the Wuhan people.
我特别能理解这种恐慌，毕竟我在街上遇到有中国游客问哪里能买到口罩时，也很警惕，很怕他们是从武汉来的。
I particularly understand this fear, after all, when I met Chinese tourists on the street asking where to buy masks, I was also wary that they were from Wuhan.
对中国技术表示肯定，至少三条日本做不到日本俞天任 旅日工程师我叫俞天任，旅日工程师，也是一名专栏作家。
At least three Japanese can't do it. My name is Yu Tianren, an engineer in Japan and a columnist.
我是今年1月18日才从中国回日本，这次的新型肺炎我在中国时就知道了，应该是网上的各种议论，虽然不很清楚，但是已经知道因为冠状病毒引起了肺炎，当然没有想到会发展现在的样子。
I only returned to Japan from China on January 18th of this year. This new type of pneumonia I knew when I was in China. It should have been a bit of a comment on the Internet.
我知道的信息都是正规渠道所公开的信息，其实到了现在也已经不存在新闻管制了，而且基本上走上了正轨，包括武汉市内的朋友传出来的信息，也不像前几天刚封城时那么沮丧了。
The information I know is that published by official channels, but by now there is no news control, and basically on the right track, including the message from friends in Wuhan, and not as frustrated as when the city was closed a few days ago.
这次的肺炎，湖北省和武汉市在一开始确实做得相当差。
The pneumonia, in Hubei and Wuhan, did poorly at first.
封锁消息，胡乱抓人不说，还大肆宣扬抓人的消息，现在被抓的人又成了英雄，也是让国外的人看得大跌眼镜。
Sealing the news, arresting people at random, and making a fuss about the arrests, the people now arrested have become heroes, and people abroad see it as a big shock.
政府的错误决策，导致事态实在无法收拾，才由第三者的钟南山院士来发声。
The government's wrong decision, led to the state of affairs really beyond repair, then by the third party Zhong Nan Shan academician voice.
不管钟南山院士的发声有什么背景，反正完全暴露了湖北省和武汉市的治理无方。
No matter what the background of the academician Zhong Nan Shan, anyway completely exposed the poor governance of Hubei and Wuhan.
日本因为离中国很近，而且恰逢春节，大量中国游客访日（估计有70万人），所以对这次肺炎十分重视。
Japan attaches great importance to pneumonia because of its proximity to China and because it coincides with the Spring Festival, when a large number of Chinese tourists visit Japan (estimated at 700,000).
在日本电视还是主要媒体，所有频道都用了大量时间来报道和讨论这个问题。
Both on Japanese television and in major media, all channels devote a great deal of time to reporting and discussing the issue.
包括请政府官员谈对策，请专家解释问题，从中国网络上摘取信息，以及对其他各国的动态及时跟进，一般来说还是比较全面。
This includes inviting government officials to talk about policy responses, asking experts to explain issues, extracting information from the Chinese network and following up on developments in other countries in a timely manner, which is generally more comprehensive.
△ 日本报道中国政府动员了1000名医生去疫区日本比较讲究政治正确，媒体上很难看到不正确的言论，但是网民的反应就各种各样了。
Japan's government has mobilized 1,000 doctors to the affected areas Japan is more politically correct. It is hard to see incorrect statements in the media, but the reaction of Internet users has varied.
基本上对中国政府的应对，特别是初始阶段的应对从媒体到网民都持批判态度。
Much of the response to the Chinese government, especially in its initial stages, has been critical, from the media to Internet users.
但了解中国的人士都知道，到了现在，问题其实已经基本解决，离完全解决也就是时间问题了。
But people who know China well know that by now, the problem has been basically solved, that is to say, the problem of time.
尽管有了不同的声音，对于中国在技术上的表现，日本基本上还是持正面态度，比如短时间就解析了病毒基因，“突贯工事”建起了传染病医院，以及果断地封锁了疫区等。
Despite the different voices, Japan has largely taken a positive view of China's technological performance, for example, by resolving the virus's genes in a short time, building infectious-disease hospitals with "fortifications," and decisively sealing off infected areas.
他们承认这都是日本人做不到的。
The Japanese, they admit, cannot do it.
昨天日本TBS卫视的“报道1930”中，参议员松川瑠衣还特别说了这事，这人是个保守派，平时对华并不持好感，这次公开承认了中国的这些技术成就，同样是保守媒体的富士卫视，也同意这三条，这还挺难得的。
Senator Takeshi Matsukawa, a conservative who has no interest in China, publicly acknowledged the country's technological achievements and agreed with Forster TV, also a conservative media outlet, in yesterday's report 1930 by TBS television.
△ 松川瑠衣对比一下数据，2009年美国的猪流感，首例病例于3月下旬开始出现，疾病预防控制中心于4月17日识别出该病。
Comparing the data, the first case of swine flu in the United States in 2009 started in late March and was identified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on April 17.
要知道，美国疾病预防控制中心，是全球最佳的传染病研究机构，每年预算110亿美元。
You know, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States is the world's best infectious disease research facility, with an annual budget of $11 billion.
2014年的西非埃博拉病毒流行期间，从获得第一个患者样品到鉴定完整的基因组序列，他们花了2个月的时间，然后又花了6周的时间来发布它。
During the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, it took two months for them to obtain the first patient sample to identify a complete genome sequence, and then another six weeks to release it.
而这次的新型肺炎冠状病毒，中国从第一个患者样品到完成病毒鉴定和测序，历时1周。
The new coronavirus pneumonia in China lasted a week from the first patient sample to the completion of virus identification and sequencing.
从这个角度看，医学技术的进步的速度，确实越来越快。
From this point of view, the progress of medical technology is indeed growing faster and faster.
可能更让日本政府羡慕的是“封城”行动，数千万人被锁定在一个区域来做检疫，众所周知，隔离是预防传染病最有效的方式，但这样大规模的封城行动，日本绝对做不到的，因为宪法就不允许。
Perhaps even more enviable for the Japanese government is Operation Sealing, in which tens of millions of people are locked into an area to be quarantined. It is well known that isolation is the most effective way to prevent infectious diseases, but such a large-scale closure would never be possible in Japan because the constitution would not allow it.
还有10天搭建两个医院，容纳上千张病床，数千医务工作者，这样的效率也是让日本民众羡慕不已，这不仅是人力、物力、财力的集中展示，更需要强大的行政手段才能办到。
With 10 days to build two hospitals with thousands of beds and thousands of medical workers, this efficiency is also much admired by the Japanese people. This is not only a concentrated display of human, material and financial resources, but also requires powerful administrative means.
对于灾区的民众，日本人基本上都是抱同情态度。
For the people in the disaster area, the Japanese are basically sympathetic.
但他们对于中国游客的态度则十分矛盾，一方面害怕中国游客会带来病毒，另一方面也知道中国游客的接待行业效益下滑会带来一系列的社会问题。
But they are ambivalent about Chinese tourists, fearful of the virus and aware of the social problems associated with the decline in the efficiency of the Chinese hospitality industry.
所以虽然有人在嘀咕禁止中国人入境，但并不形成主流民意，反而大家都忧虑中国禁止组团出国，会给日本经济带来什么问题。
So while some grumble about banning Chinese from entering the country, they do not form a mainstream public opinion. Instead, there is widespread concern about what Japan's economic problems would be if China banned group travel abroad.
连日来东京证券市场股市大跌，有人预算因为中国的肺炎会把日本的GDP下拉0.34个百分点。
Stock markets in Tokyo have tumbled in recent days, with some budgets pulling 0.34 percentage points off Japan's GDP because of pneumonia in China.
总之日本社会希望中国能够早日解决这个问题，拖长了对全球的经济都有坏影响。
In a word, Japanese society hopes that China will solve this problem at an early date, which will have a negative impact on the global economy.
武汉学生感冒，引来学校一阵恐慌美国窦松石罗彻斯特大学，光学研究生我是12月29号放假回国的，1月13号回到学校。
Wuhan students caught a cold, caused a school panic sinusoidal Rochester University, optics graduate students I returned to school December 29 holiday, January 13 back to school.
当时已经关注到国内有疫情相关的报道，但并没有特别重视。
There were reports of outbreaks in the country, but no particular attention was paid to them.
直到1月23号，武汉封城，事件才真正引起大家注意。
It was not until January 23, when Wuhan was closed, that the incident really caught everyone's attention.
1月23号那天，我收到一封来自我们学院教授的邮件，告诉我们由于疫情形势严峻，张希成教授决定取消原定于大年初一的春节聚会。
On January 23, I received an e-mail from our college professor informing us that because of the severe situation of the epidemic, Professor Zhang Xicheng had decided to cancel the Spring Festival party originally scheduled for the New Year's Day.
据说张教授往年每年都会组织光学院的学生春节一起团聚包饺子，和大家一起庆祝新年。
Professor Zhang is said to have organized annual Lunar New Year reunions for students from the College of Light to make dumplings and celebrate the New Year.
24号的时候，我收到学校校医院的邮件。
On the 24th, I received an email from the school hospital.
告知我们学校正在密切关注2019年末起源于中国武汉的新型冠状病毒，这种病毒可能导致轻度疾病，比如感冒，上呼吸道感染，严重可能引起危及生命的肺炎。
Tells us that our school is keeping a close eye on the new coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, China, in late 2019, which could lead to mild diseases such as colds and upper respiratory tract infections, with potentially life-threatening pneumonia.
但是同时校医院也告诉我们，这种病毒不太可能出现在我们校园里，因为中国境外只有少量发病案件，美国疾控中心（CDC）列出目前该病对美国公众的风险比较低。
But the school hospital also told us that the virus was unlikely to show up on our campus because there were only a few cases outside China, and the CDC listed the current risk to the American public as low.
但情况还在不断发展，学校还是做好准备随时应对突发情况。
But things are still evolving, and schools are ready to respond to unexpected events.
△ 24号的邮件截图当时他们正在主动联系曾经可能前往武汉或靠近疫情区域的同学沟通，提醒大家如果曾受感染，或有发烧，咳嗽，呼吸急促的症状，随时联系校医院。
The "? 24" e-mail screen showed that students who might have travelled to Wuhan or near the epidemic area were being contacted to remind them to contact the school hospital if they had been infected or had symptoms of fever, cough or shortness of breath.
邮件还提到，美国卫生部官员正在对从武汉到美国洛杉矶，旧金山，纽约肯尼迪机场，芝加哥奥黑尔机场和亚特兰大国际机场的旅客进行筛查。
The email also noted that officials from the U.S. Department of Health are screening passengers from Wuhan to Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York's Kennedy Airport, Chicago's O'Hare Airport and Atlanta International Airport.
接下来的几天里，所有从武汉飞往美国的航班都将被改道到这几个机场，从这些机场入境。
In the next few days, all flights from Wuhan to the United States will be diverted to and from those airports.
25号春节当天，我们学院院长发了一封邮件给所有中国留学生，祝福大家春节快乐。
On the 25th Spring Festival, the dean of our college sent an e-mail to all Chinese students, wishing you a happy Spring Festival.
也提到了武汉疫情的问题，邮件中说，我们中的很多人可能会担心远在中国的亲人，但希望大家能感受到光学院大家庭的支持。
Also referring to the Wuhan epidemic, the e-mail said many of us may be worried about relatives in China, but hope everyone will feel the support of the Light Academy family.
老师和同事们会帮助我们一起度过困难时期，并且这场疾病很快就会过去。
Teachers and colleagues will help us through difficult times together, and the disease will soon pass.
△ 25日邮件然后就是27号，我又收到了来自留学生办公室的邮件，同样是关于武汉疫情的。
After the twenty-fifth, and then the 27th, I received another email from the Office of the Foreign Student, also about the Wuhan outbreak.
这应该算是一封「辟谣」邮件，希望我们不要恐慌。
This is supposed to be a disclaimer. I hope we don't panic.
1.经学校筛查，没有发现任何确诊案例2.学校取消光学研究所的实验室会议这个决定，与肺炎病毒或感染没有任何关系。
The decision of the school to cancel the laboratory meeting of the Institute of Optics had nothing to do with the pneumonia virus or infection.
△ 27日邮件邮件说我们学校或整个罗彻斯特地区都没有任何肺炎病例发生，而且校医院正在与医疗中心的传染病专家以及其他卫生机构合作，提供关于肺炎的最新信息，筛选所有有可能接触过该病毒的人。
The 27 th e-mail said there had been no cases of pneumonia in our school or in the entire Rochester area, and the school hospital was working with infectious disease specialists at medical centers and other health facilities to provide up-to-date information on pneumonia and screen all those who might have been exposed to the virus.
同时提醒大家勤洗手，生病时留在家中，避免与他人接触。
Also remind everyone to wash hands frequently, stay at home when sick, avoid contact with others.
这封邮件可能与之前学校的传言有关，我听说过学校出现一个疑似案例，当事人来自武汉，是我们光学院的博士。
This e-mail may have something to do with previous school rumors. I have heard of a suspected case at the school where the person concerned was from Wuhan, a Ph.D. from our Light School.
但至今这些消息都没有确切来源，也只是大家口口相传而已，官方这封邮件可能就是为了打消大家的恐慌。
But so far there is no definitive source, and it is just a word of mouth. The official message may have been intended to assuage fears.
我估计可能只是有武汉同学感冒而已，引起大家的恐慌造谣。
I guess it's just that Wuhan schoolmate caught a cold, which caused everyone's panic and rumor.
我们学院有蛮多学生来自武汉的，大家很关注这件事，超市里的口罩已经卖脱销了。
Our college has quite a lot of students from Wuhan, we are very concerned about this matter, the supermarket has sold out of masks.
我们学院很多中国留学生都戴着口罩，但外国学生几乎没有人戴口罩的。
Many Chinese students in our college wear masks, but few foreign students wear them.
可能离他们还是太远了，就像如果巴西发生了什么大的流感之类的，我们在国内可能也不会太关心，甚至有什么样的应对措施。
It may be too far away from them, like if something like a big flu were to happen in Brazil, we might not care much at home, or even what to do about it.
尤其是罗彻斯特离中国已经有12个小时的时差了，距离很远，过来的可能性很小，大家不觉得会发生在我们身边。
Rochester, in particular, had a 12-hour time difference from China, a long way off, and there was little chance that it would happen to us.
包括我自己也是托朋友买了口罩，但一直没怎么戴。
I bought a mask from a friend myself, but I didn't wear it very much.
确诊8例，我却买不到口罩了澳大利亚Sherry老师我在澳大利亚墨尔本工作，之前是通过微博热搜知道的肺炎的，那天钟南山说新型冠状病毒可以人传人，后来我就关注了很多国内的医学科普，了解了一些肺炎相关的信息。
I was working in Melbourne, Australia, when I first learned about pneumonia through microblogging fever. That day Zhong Nan Shan said the new coronavirus could be passed from person to person.
前天我去上班时，公司前台（亚洲人）戴了口罩，但是那种防花粉的普通口罩，因为别的都买不到了。
When I went to work the day before yesterday, the receptionist wore a mask, but the pollen mask was common because nothing else was available.
由于之前澳大利亚山火，这里的口罩基本已脱销，我这种住闹市区的更是买不到，ebay上订货要2月12号到。
Due to the previous Australian mountain fire, the mask here has almost sold out, I live downtown more can not buy, ebay order February 12.
我认识的一些做服务业的朋友，比如银行，购物中心等，公司已为他们订购了口罩，并允许他们戴口罩上班。
Some of my service friends, like banks and shopping malls, have ordered masks for them and allowed them to wear masks to work.
据我所知，澳洲目前确诊8个，都在医院治疗中。
So far as I know, there are eight confirmed cases in Australia, all of which are under hospital treatment.
但其实路上基本没人戴口罩，澳大利亚维多利亚州政府发布的「（2019-nCoV）接触以及与 2019-nCoV 确诊患者接触之后须知信息」文件中也提到：如果没有相关症状，不建议民众为了预防新型冠状病毒等感染而佩戴口罩。
However, few people wear masks on the road. The "(2019-nCoV) contact and information after contact with 2019-nCoV patients" released by the Victorian government also states: "If there are no symptoms, people are not advised to wear masks to prevent infections such as the new coronavirus."
△ 澳大利亚维多利亚州政府发布的，（2019-nCoV）接触以及与 2019-nCoV 确诊患者接触之后须知信息关于肺炎，我看澳大利亚媒体报道的还算客观，并且一直保持非常自信乐观的态度。
Information on pneumonia released by the Victorian government (2019-nCoV) and after contact with patients diagnosed with 2019-nCoV I think the Australian media report is objective and has always been very confident and optimistic.
只是昨天澳洲本地报纸《太阳先驱报》在头版的一篇报道中，在醒目位置上称呼新型冠状病毒肺炎（Coronavirus）为「中国病毒」（China virus）。
It was only yesterday that the local Australian newspaper The Sun Herald featured a headline calling the new coronavirus pneumonia (Coronavirus) "China virus."
△澳洲本地报纸《太阳先驱报》头版报道《悉尼每日邮报》也在头版上用粗体大字标题写着“中国孩子待家里”(CHINA KIDS STAY HOME) ，这引起了很多澳洲华人的不满和抗议。
"CHINA KIDS STAY HOME," the front page of the Australian-based newspaper The Sun Herald, also ran a front-page headline saying "Chinese children stay at home," which provoked a lot of resentment and protests from Chinese Australians.
对于许多春节假期没有回中国的华人孩子是不公平的，并且可能导致这些华裔孩子在学校遭到校园霸凌。
For many Chinese children who do not return to China during the Spring Festival holiday, it is unfair and may result in these Chinese children being bullied on campus.
△《悉尼每日邮报》头版事件发酵后，很多人在请愿网站Change.org上发起请愿，他们认为这两个标题都含有种族主义歧视，违反了澳大利亚的种族歧视法，对中国社会造成不良影响。
After the Sydney Daily Mail front-page ferment, many people launched a petition on the petition site Change.org, both of which they believed contained racist discrimination and violated Australia's racial discrimination laws, adversely affecting Chinese society.
并要求两家媒体公开道歉，不少华人积极响应。
Both media were asked to apologize publicly and many Chinese responded positively.
截止1月30日早上10点，已经有超过40000人签名要求道歉。
By 10 a.m. on January 30th, more than 40,000 people had signed up for an apology.
△ 华人联名最近在在华人社区的强烈要求下，可能也是出于安全考虑，会让近期从中国回来的人自觉在家隔离14天。
The delta-Chinese community has recently urged people who have recently returned from China to voluntarily stay at home for 14 days, perhaps because of safety concerns.
华人社区也发起了一些互助活动，比如帮近期回国隔离在家的人购物、买菜等等。
The Chinese community has also launched a number of mutual assistance activities, such as shopping, shopping and other activities for people who have recently returned home to stay at home.
肺炎这事牵一发而动全身，涉及范围太广，影响太大了。
Pneumonia is a matter of concern all over the body, involving too wide a range, too much impact.
我希望治愈的病例越来越多，尽快结束这场战役。
I hope that more and more cases will be cured and the battle will be ended as soon as possible.
为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
Chinese women to provide professional solutions to protect the safety of Chinese women to turn up to take a quilt to turn a quilt.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的海外华人：孤立、恐慌、种族歧视和鼓励。
Overseas Chinese in the Epidemic: Isolation, Panic, Racial Discrimination and Encouragement.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girls.
var msg_title = "疫情下的海外华人：孤立、恐慌、种族歧视和鼓励";。
var msg _ title = & quot; overseas Chinese in the epidemic: isolation, panic, racial discrimination, and encouragement and encouragement;;
var msg_desc = "现在外国人看见中国人，就像中国人看见武汉人一样。
var msg _ desc = & quot; foreigners see Chinese now as Chinese do when they see Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girl.
