全国土地市场大复苏。
The national land market has recovered greatly.
一条君。
A prince.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：傅林林“ 现在拿地都是赌博。
Journalist: Fu Linlin, Now it is all gambling.
”尽管房企的项目还未开工，但在各地的土地市场上，房企的竞争早已开始。
Although housing projects have not yet started, competition for property companies has already begun in the land markets everywhere.
2月14日，北京进行了鼠年的第二场土拍，位于海淀和昌平的3幅地块均竞拍火热，最终成交金额达到196.8亿元。
On February 14, 2008, Beijing held the second shoot of the Year of the Rat. All three plots in Haidian and Changping were hotly contested, with the final value reaching 19.68 billion yuan.
而在三天前，北京刚刚进行了节后的第一场土拍，3幅地块卖出了80亿元，房企间竞争同样激烈。
Three days ago, just after Beijing's first filming of the festival, three plots sold for eight billion yuan, and competition among property companies was also fierce.
中原地产研究院首席分析师张大伟表示：“最近敢拿地的其实都是赌博，疫情能快速缓解的话，肯定都是抄底，获得了优质底价地块，弯道超车，但如果疫情影响持续，那么很可能就是跌下泥潭。
Zhang Dawei, chief analyst at Zhongyuan Real Estate Research Institute, said: "It's all gambling. If the epidemic can be quickly alleviated, it's definitely the bottom line.
“那些敢于在当前阶段积极拿地的房企，显然对土地市场和后市有着乐观的预计，当然也有房企会持谨慎态度。
"Those who dare to actively take the land at this stage, the land market and the market are obviously optimistic, of course, there are housing enterprises will be cautious.
在当前市场环境下，房企间对后市的判断已经出现巨大分歧。
Under the present market environment, the judgment between the housing enterprises to the later market has appeared the huge difference.
过去十多年的数轮调控周期中，勇于赌博的房企，如能踏准市场行情，往往都会获得巨额回报。
Over the past decade or so, several rounds of regulation cycle, the courage to gamble housing enterprises, such as market access, will often get a huge return.
但这一次，在行业严厉调控、“房住不炒”主基调不会改变的背景下，豪赌的房企能否走到最后，依然要打上大大的问号。
But this time, in the industry strict regulation, "do not stir-fry" the main tone will not change the background, gamble housing enterprises can go to the end, still have to put a big question mark.
对拥有资金优势的国企来说，他们认为现阶段就是好的拿地机会。
For SOEs with capital advantages, they see the current stage as a good opportunity to grab land.
北京某国企的一位高管向界面新闻表示：“虽然受疫情影响，但不得不说，目前是北京最近四五年来最好的拿地时机和房企进京时机”。
"Although affected by the outbreak, it has to be said that this is the best time for Beijing to get land and housing companies to Beijing in the last four to five years," an executive with a state-owned enterprise in Beijing told Interface News.
疫情虽严重，却挡不住各地在网上继续卖地。
Although the epidemic is serious, but unable to stop all over the Internet continue to sell land.
除了北京外，全国各大城市也掀起了土拍热浪。
In addition to Beijing, the country's major cities also set off a clap of heat waves.
广州、杭州、南京、成都、福州、温州等地均开始了节后的首次卖地。
Guangzhou, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Chengdu, Fuzhou, Wenzhou and other places have started after the first land sales.
其中温州的一幅土地竞拍9个小时、叫价400多轮才分出胜负。
Among them, a land auction in Wenzhou 9 hours, bid for more than 400 rounds before the winner.
上海也在近期挂出一幅巨无霸地块——由28幅地块组成的徐汇滨江西岸金融港地块，起拍价格高达310.2亿元，如顺利成交，将极有可能刷新全国总价地王的记录。
Shanghai has also recently put up a giant block of land - the 28-piece Xuhui Binjiang West Bank Financial Harbor Block, which will fetch 31.02 billion yuan from the start.
东方证券在一份报告中提到，随着2019年下半年土地溢价率的持续下降，今年预计会有较好的补仓机会。
Eastern Securities said in a report that it expects better opportunities to cover positions this year as land premium rates continue to fall in the second half of 2019.
从最近两次北京拍地的情况来看，2月11日的三幅地块竞得者为首创、华润与中交、京能，2月14日，地块竞得者为首开+华润+住总+中交、绿城、首开+住总+建工。
According to the last two Beijing shots, the winners of the three plots on Feb. 11 were Pioneer, China Resources & amp; China & amp; Peking. On Feb. 14, the winner of the lot bid was Zhang + China Resources + Total Residence + China Interchange, Green City, First Open + Residence General + Construction.
很明显，拥有央企国企身份的地产公司，已经冲在了前面。
Clearly, the state-owned state-owned enterprises of the real estate companies, has rushed in the front.
北京地产评论人士泽龙表示，由于北京土拍总价门槛较高、年初供应地块较多、大量限竞房同质化产品库存高压，同时受疫情影响，部分规模化、高杠杆、快周转、负债高的房企对目前阶段的土拓将会更加审慎，当然，背后现金流的吃紧自然是刚性因素。
Beijing real estate commentator Zelung said that due to the high threshold of Beijing home-made total price, more supply plots at the beginning of the year, a large number of homogenized products limited to bidding, and affected by the epidemic, some large-scale, highly leveraged, fast-revolving and highly indebted housing companies will be more cautious about the current phase of Tutuo, of course, the tight cash flow behind it is a rigid factor.
为支持疫情下的正常经济发展，近期金融市场的流动性已经得到释放。
Recent liquidity in financial markets has been unleashed to support normal economic growth in the face of the epidemic.
2月3日，央行开展1.2万亿元公开市场逆回购操作，银行体系整体流动性比去年同期多9000亿元，随后继续通过公开市场操作逆回购投放资金5000亿，释放流动性累计达1.7万亿元，这相当于出现1%的降准。
On February 3, the central bank launched a 1.2 trillion yuan reverse repurchase operation. The overall liquidity of the banking system was 900 billion yuan more than in the same period last year.
多数地产行业内人士认为，不排除宽松的资金最终流向房地产市场的可能。
Most real estate insiders do not rule out the possibility of easy money ending up in the real estate market.
上述国企高管向界面新闻表示：“此次央行放水对房地产肯定有利好，不过，主要有利于大型房企，中小房企生存环境会更差一些，从融资角度来看，去年的情况就不乐观，现在当然更差。
"The central bank's water release will certainly be good for real estate, but it will mainly benefit large housing companies, which will live in a worse environment," state-run executives told Interface News.
”当代置业总裁张鹏也表示，中小房企融资成本相对更高、去化周期更长，相比国企、大型头部企业来说资金压力更大，从全年来看，企业间收并购数量会有一定程度增加，预计行业集中度会进一步加大。
Zhang Peng, chairman of the contemporary property industry, also said that the cost of financing small and medium-sized housing companies is relatively high, the decontamination cycle is longer, capital pressure is greater than for state-owned enterprises and large head companies, and the volume of inter-firm mergers and acquisitions is expected to increase somewhat over the course of the year.
当代置业2019年的销售额约362亿元，全国房企排名约80位，属于中小型房企之列。
Contemporary housing sales of about 36.2 billion yuan in 2019, China's housing companies ranked around 80, belonging to small and medium-sized housing enterprises.
近期房企也普遍加大了境外融资的力度，尽管美元债的利率有所下降，但对于中小企业来说，融资成本依然高企。
Housing companies in general have also stepped up their efforts to raise capital abroad, and while interest rates on dollar debt have fallen, the cost of financing for small and medium-sized enterprises remains high.
在2月份的最新发行的几笔美元债中，中梁，荣盛的票面利率都超过了8%，而浙江房企佳源国际的一笔6000万美元优先票据，利率达到了13.75%。
In February's latest issue of dollar debt, Zhongliang, Rongsheng's coupon interest rate exceeded 8 percent, while Zhejiang Housing Jiayuan International's $60 million priority note reached 13.75 percent.
某信托机构员工也向界面新闻表示，“目前不太给小房企做融资了，风险比较大，我们之前只做前50的房企，后面扩展的话会做前100名的，但还是要看项目条件和风控措施。
One trust employee also told Interface News: "We are not currently financing small houses, the risk is relatively large, we only do the top 50 housing enterprises, the expansion will do the top 100, but still depend on project conditions and wind control measures.
”融资端的松紧一般也会直接反映在土拍市场上。
The slack on the financing side is usually also directly reflected in the clay market.
中指研究院企业事业部总经理白彦君分析，目前对于资金状况比较健康的房企来说，正是拿地的好时机，针对一些大的国有企业以及资金比较宽裕的企业，他们穿越周期的能力比较强，建议这些企业在当下适当积极投资重点二线城市，包括受疫情影响的城市。
Robin Bai, general manager of the Enterprise Division of the Institute, said that it was a good time for companies with healthy capital to take advantage of the current financial situation to target large state-owned enterprises and well-funded enterprises, which are better able to cross the cycle, and advised them to invest actively in priority secondary cities, including those affected by the epidemic.
对一些短期有资金压力的企业，建议短期内避开受疫情影响较大的城市，因为这些城市销售回款的流动性会弱一些，同时也避开一些三四线的城市，而是更多布局变现能力比较强的一二线的城市。
For some companies with short-term capital pressures, it is recommended to avoid cities that are more affected by the epidemic in the short term, as they will be less mobile in selling cash back, while avoiding some third or fourth-tier cities and more first- or second-tier cities with stronger liquidity.
目前疫情已经对宏观经济造成了影响，中山证券分析认为，由于产业结构发生较大变化，目前消费对经济增长的贡献明显增加，与消费相关的服务业，特别是对与线下消费密切相关的服务业影响更大；2020年1月底以来，政府在疫情防控方面的措施更为严格，特别是延长春节假期、推迟企业复工，对工业生产的影响比较大。
At present, the epidemic has had an impact on the macroeconomy. The analysis of Zhongshan Securities points out that consumption-related services, especially those closely related to offline consumption, have increased significantly as a result of large changes in the industrial structure. Since the end of January 2020, the Government has tightened control of the epidemic, in particular by extending the Spring Festival and postponing the resumption of work.
目前房地产已经进入存量时代，现阶段大幅放松地产调控的概率偏低，所以地产对经济的拉动作用有限；中国目前处于经济下行周期，可能后续经济的反弹力度也会弱于SARS时期。
At present, real estate has entered the stock era, the probability of substantial relaxation of real estate regulation is low, so the pull of real estate to the economy is limited; China is in the current economic downturn cycle, the rebound may be weaker than the SARS period.
而在房地产领域，受疫情影响，各地项目纷纷陷入停工状态，仅恒大就有1246个项目停工，目前各地项目复工仍旧没有明确的通知，1月份之后，福州、赣州、宜昌、广州、湛江、腾冲、昆明、南京、厦门等城市纷纷下发通知，要求企业关闭售楼处。
In the real estate sector, affected by the epidemic, projects across the country have been shut down, 1,246 projects in the University of Heng alone are still not clearly notified. After January, Fuzhou, Ganzhou, Yichang, Guangzhou, Zhanjiang, Tengchong, Kunming, Nanjing and Xiamen have issued notices to enterprises to close sales offices.
而从一月份上市房企的销售数据来看，基本上都处于下滑态势。
And from the January sales data of listed housing enterprises, basically in a downward trend.
据全联房地产商会的调研数据显示，2020年上半年企业须交付的项目占全年交付项目总数的30%-50%，调研的72家企业中，46家房企(以中小型企业为主)受影响货值超4400亿元；26家产业链企业，受停工停售影响的积压库存超40亿元；某家典型房企单月资金缺口将达100-110亿元，上半年货币资金或仅够维持三个月运转。
In the first half of 2020, enterprises must deliver 30-50% of the total number of projects delivered. Of the 72 enterprises surveyed, 46 (mainly small and medium-sized enterprises) have a backlog of more than RMB 4 billion.
但关于后市，多位房企受访者都表示出了明显的信心。
But on the aftermarket, a number of housing enterprise respondents have expressed obvious confidence.
上述国企高管就表示：“目前北京土地供应较多且极为密集，从目前土拍端房企的参与热情和竞价情况看，我感觉大家都很有信心。
"There is a lot of land supply in Beijing and it's very intensive," said the SOE executives. "I think we're very confident from the enthusiasm and the bidding at the moment."
”多数人判断，疫情中的购房需求并没有消失，在疫情结束后，房地产市场将会出现一波增长。
Most people are betting that demand for homes in the epidemic has not disappeared and that there will be a wave of growth in the property market after the epidemic.
另外在政策方面，特别是缓解企业资金压力方面，地方也有所松动。
There has also been some relaxation of policy, particularly in terms of relieving corporate financial pressures.
截至目前，济南、西安、杭州、上海、天津、无锡、南昌、南京等城市出台土地新政应对疫情，部分城市明确土地款可申请延期或分期缴付。
So far, Jinan, Xi'an, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Tianjin, Wuxi, Nanchang, Nanjing and other cities have issued new land policies to deal with the epidemic.
2月12日，无锡、西安两地连夜出台抗疫情、稳经济的政策及措施，此前河北、天津、重庆、浙江、上海、南昌等10余个省市也出台了针对房地产行业尤其是房地产企业的阶段性纾困新政。
On February 12, Wuxi and Xi'an launched overnight policies and measures to combat the epidemic and stabilize the economy, after more than 10 provinces and municipalities, including Hebei, Tianjin, Chongqing, Zhejiang, Shanghai and Nanchang, also introduced a phased relief package for the real estate industry, especially real estate enterprises.
张大伟表示：“从全国看，如果湖北能在2月份就控制住疫情，叠加预期中的降息等政策，市场会快速恢复。
"Across the country, if Hubei can bring the outbreak under control in February and double the expected rate cut, the market will recover quickly," said Mr Zhang.
甚至可能再现一波明显的小阳春。
It may even be possible to recreate an obvious wave of xiangchun.
”而泽龙表示：“如果大家都相信这次疫情会在短期以小几个月的节奏控制下来并解除一级响应，那么最难的不是现在拿地，而是几个月前拿的项目。
"If everyone believes the outbreak will be contained in a few short months and the first response is lifted, then the hardest thing is not to get the land now, but the project that was taken a few months ago," he said.
恰恰现在拿地后，开盘时点也许刚好赶得上一切恢复正常后的楼市大阳春。
Just now take the ground, the opening point may be just in time to return to normal after the real estate market Dayangchun.
”但对于这波行情到来的时间点仍旧需要看疫情结束的时间，上述国企高管表示，预测下半年北京会有一波中等规模的行情到来。
But the timing of the rally still depends on the end of the epidemic, with executives predicting a wave of medium-sized activity in Beijing in the second half of the year.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国土地市场大复苏。
The national land market has recovered greatly.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全国土地市场大复苏";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "现在拿地都是赌博。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; now it's all gambling.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
