世卫组织前传染病事务主任：现在说病毒将感染全球2/3人口还太早。
Former WHO Director of Infectious Diseases: It is too early to say that the virus will infect two-thirds of the world's population.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者 | 潘金花“ “各国应该做的，是继续遏制病毒的传播，减少人们与病毒的接触，隔离病例并追踪接触者。
Source: Visual Chinese News & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
中国在这方面已做出很大的努力，和疫情刚爆发时相比，中国显然已经延缓了疫情蔓延至全球的速度。
China has made great efforts in this regard, and it is clear that China has slowed the spread of the epidemic to the global level since the outbreak began.
””针对一些学者提出新冠肺炎可能会“感染全球三分之二人口”的预测，世界卫生组织此前主管传染病事务的助理总干事、现伦敦卫生与热带医学院（LSHTM）传染病流行病学教授大卫·海曼（David Heymann）表示，做这样的预测还太早。
David Heymann, assistant director-general for infectious diseases at the World Health Organisation and now professor of infectious disease epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), said it was too early to make such a prediction.
在刚刚过去的一周，世卫组织顾问、佛罗里达大学传染病统计与量化中心（CSQUID）主任艾拉·隆吉尼（Ira Longini）表示，随着新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情蔓延，全球三分之二的人口都可能被感染。
In the past week, Ira Longini, a WHO consultant and director of the University of Florida's Center for Statistics and Quantification of Infectious Diseases (CSQUID), said two-thirds of the world's population could be infected with the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia.
据彭博新闻社2月13日报道，隆吉尼在追踪了新冠病毒在中国的传播性后指出，该病毒最终的感染人数或许会比当前的统计数字高出数十亿。
Longeni, who tracked the spread of the virus in China, said the virus could end up infecting billions more people than current statistics suggest.
他的模型基础是，每个感染者通常会传染给另外两到三个人，由于缺乏快速检测手段，以及一些病例的感染症状相对较轻，该病毒的传播情况正变得难以追踪。
His model is based on the fact that each infected person usually infects two or three other people, and the spread of the virus is becoming difficult to track due to the lack of rapid testing and, in some cases, relatively mild infection symptoms.
隆吉尼说，哪怕能减少一半传播，全球仍将有三分之一的人口会被感染，除非病毒的传播性改变，否则监测和遏制措施无法再发挥更大的效力，发现并隔离病例将无法阻止病毒的蔓延。
'Even if we cut transmission by half, one-third of the world's population will still be infected, and surveillance and containment measures won't be more effective unless the virus spreads, 'he said.' Detecting and isolating cases will not stop the spread of the virus.
对上述预测，海曼教授在接受界面新闻采访时说，做这样的预测还太早。
In an interview with Interface News about the forecast, Prof Hyman said it was too early to make such a prediction.
我们现在还不知道病毒的传播性，不知道它在多大程度上容易或是不易传播，不知道各国采取的防控措施是否有效，也不知道症状轻重的比例或是具体的病死率，因此还没有答案。
We do not yet know the spread of the virus, the extent to which it is easy or difficult to spread, the effectiveness of national control measures, the proportion of symptoms or the specific fatality rate, and therefore there is no answer.
大卫·海曼 来源：Wikipedia现年74岁的海曼教授曾参与刚果（金）前三次埃博拉疫情的防治工作，并曾在中西非及南亚等地调查过天花、疟疾等传染病的传播情况。
David Heymann Source: Professor Heiman, 74, of Wikipedia, was involved in the first three Ebola outbreaks in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and has investigated the spread of infectious diseases such as smallpox and malaria in West and Central Africa and South Asia.
2003年“非典”流行时，海曼也曾代表世卫组织奔赴疫情前线，当时他是世卫组织传染病事务执行主任。
He also represented WHO at the front line of the epidemic in 2003, when he was the WHO Executive Director for Communicable Diseases.
海曼教授对界面新闻表示，现在各国应该做的，是继续遏制病毒的传播，减少人们与病毒的接触，隔离病例并追踪接触者。
What countries should do now is continue to halt the spread of the virus, reduce people's exposure to the virus, isolate cases and track contacts, Professor Heymann told Interface News.
中国在这方面已做出很大的努力，和疫情刚爆发的时候相比，中国显然已经延缓了疫情蔓延至全球的速度。
China has made great efforts in this regard, and it is clear that China has slowed the spread of the epidemic to the global level compared to the outbreak at the outset.
以下为访谈实录，刊发时有编辑。
The following is a transcript of the interview.
界面新闻：有关新冠病毒可能会感染全球三分之二人口的说法，您怎么看？海曼：我觉得是太早了，可以这么说。
Interface News: What do you think of the idea that the new crown virus could infect two-thirds of the world's populationHyman: I think it's too early to say so.
信息还不够。
Information is not enough.
这是从一个模型中得出来的预估，而这个模型还正在完善中。
This is an estimate from a model that is still being refined.
现在他们还不知道病毒的传播性，因此还没有答案，没有人可以预估之后会发生什么。
They do not yet know the spread of the virus, so there is no answer, no one can predict what will happen afterwards.
很多国家都正在尽全力遏制病毒的传播，减少人们与它的接触。
Many countries are doing their utmost to curb the spread of the virus and to reduce people's access to it.
这个工作应该做下去。
The work should go on.
界面新闻：在您看来，假如这个病毒真的感染了世界众多人口，重症和轻症的比例大概会是多少？海曼：现在的问题是，我们也不知道，因为我们不知道目前究竟有多少轻症病例。
Interface News: In your opinion, if the virus really infects a lot of the world's population, what would be the proportion of severe and mild cases? Hyman: The problem is, we don't know, because we don't know how many light cases there are right now.
相关病例的判断一开始是依据是否出现肺炎症状，而这些病例的病情往往都比较严重。
The diagnosis of these cases was initially based on the presence or absence of symptoms of pneumonia, which are often severe.
上周，中国也更新了诊断标准，所以现在说症状轻重，或是病死率，都还太早。
Last week, China also updated its diagnostic criteria, so it is too early to say whether the symptoms are serious or the death rate.
但是，它表现出来的特征和季节性流感的确有些相像，只不过和流感相比，医护人员的感染情况更严重一些。
But the traits it exhibits do resemble seasonal flu, except that health-care workers are more affected than the flu.
观察症状轻重是不错的做法，但还有很多因素是需要考虑的，比如一些伴随疾病，如糖尿病、肺部疾病等，关于这些病例自身的情况，还有很多问题仍待回答。
It's a good idea to look at the severity of symptoms, but there are many other factors to consider, such as diabetes and lung disease. There are still many questions to be answered about the cases themselves.
界面新闻：在您看来，中国遏制疫情的措施如何？如果其他国家也采取这样的措施，可行吗？海曼：我认为中国正在尽一切努力遏制疫情的传播。
Interface News: In your opinion, what are China's measures to contain the epidemic? Is it feasible for other countries to do the same? Haiman: I think China is making every effort to contain the spread of the epidemic.
这些措施可以继续实施，毕竟有些措施许多国家是做不到的，比如让人们待在家中，但中国能做到，如果中国觉得这是最好的办法，那就应该继续。
These measures can be continued, after all, some things that many countries cannot do, such as keeping people at home, but China can do it, and if China feels that this is the best course of action, it should continue.
我无法去评判这样做的对与错，这是中国选择的策略。
I cannot judge right or wrong in doing so. It is China's choice of strategy.
现在还没有其他国家采取这样的措施，大部分国家选择的是可行的隔离，如果人们不愿意，会进一步沟通寻找解决方案。
No other country has taken such a step, and most countries have opted for viable isolation, with further communication to find a solution if people are unwilling to do so.
界面新闻：此前中国疾控中心专家曾表示，湖北以外中国地区的传播主要是以家庭为单位，而不是在社区中传播，您怎么看？海曼：我希望这是真的。
Interface News: Experts from the China CDC have said that the spread outside Hubei is mainly family-based, not community-based. What do you think?
如果真的是这样，那疫情将更容易得到控制。
If that is the case, it will be easier to control the epidemic.
界面新闻：非洲现在已经发现了首例患者，您认为这会如何影响海外目前的疫情发展？海曼：我不清楚，现在没人可以预估。
Interface News: The first case has been found in Africa, how do you think it will affect the development of the current epidemic overseas?
界面新闻：就如何尽可能地遏制疫情传播，您有什么建议？一些卫生系统薄弱的国家应该怎么做？海曼：它们应该和工业化国家一样，采取同样的措施，也就是隔离病例、追踪接触者，还有就是指导接触者在出现发热等症状时应该怎么做，让他们与家属保持一定的距离，要是他们生病了，就要第一时间与家人隔离开来。
Interface News: What advice do you have on how best to contain the spread of the epidemic? What should some countries with weak health systems do? Haiman: They should do the same thing as industrialized countries: isolate cases, track contacts, and instruct contacts to keep their families at arm's length if they get sick.
社区也要积极开展防控工作，发现并隔离病人，给予他们照顾，同样也需要一个接触者追踪系统，对他们观察两周，看看是否出现发热等症状。
Communities are also actively engaged in prevention and control, identifying and isolating patients and providing them with care, and also require a contact tracker system to observe them for two weeks to see if they have symptoms such as fever.
社区本身也要通力合作，去防控疫情。
The community itself should work together to prevent and control the disease.
界面新闻：新加坡也在采取这些措施，但该国近日确诊的病例数量仍然在迅速增加。
Interface News: Singapore is also taking these steps, but the number of confirmed cases in the country is still growing rapidly.
您怎么看？海曼：新加坡正在尽全力开展防疫工作。
What do you thinkHyman: Singapore is doing its best to prevent the disease.
在“非典”时期，他们也出现了同样的问题，但最终还是遏制了疫情的蔓延。
They had the same problem during the SARS period, but they did manage to contain the spread of the epidemic.
所以我也希望，中国和新加坡这次也能做到。
So I hope China and Singapore can do the same this time.
界面新闻：现在日本港口停靠着“钻石公主号”邮轮，其国内也出现了一些本地感染病例，有人认为它短期内可能会面临不小的疫情蔓延风险，您怎么看？海曼：我无法预测接下来会发生什么。
Interface News: Now that Japan's ports are docked by the Princess Diamond, and there are some local infections in the country, some people think it could face a significant spread of the disease in the short term.What do you think?
如果我能知道接下来会发生什么，那我就是魔术师了，你也是。
If I knew what was going to happen next, I'd be a magician, and so would you.
界面新闻：有研究提到，旅行限制会对疫情的传播产生一定的积极影响。
Interface News: Some studies mention that travel restrictions can have a positive impact on the spread of the epidemic.
但即便如此，一些国家仍然出现了病例，而且数量在不断增加，尤其是本地感染病例。
Even so, cases have occurred in a number of countries and are increasing, especially in the case of indigenous infections.
如果这些国家不采取相应的旅行限制，他们的病例是否也会输入其他国家，就和此次疫情前期的传播一样？海曼：这取决于他们采取的遏制措施在多大程度上有效。
If these countries don't have travel restrictions, will their cases be imported into other countries, just as they did in the early stages of the epidemic? Hyman: It depends on the extent to which their containment efforts are effective.
我无法进行预测。
I can't make predictions.
这取决于他们能否加以阻止，他们拥有强大的卫生系统，在这方面也有多年的经验，希望他们这次能够成功。
It depends on whether they can stop it, they have a strong health system and years of experience in this area, and hopefully they will succeed this time.
但还是那句话，没人能够预测，因为我们对新冠病毒的传播性还没有充分的认知。
But again, no one can predict, because we do not fully understand the spread of the new crown virus.
我们现在知道的是，它会在人际间传播，比如在社会交往，或是近距离面对面接触的时候，还有就是，要是在医院里没有多加注意，比如没有及时洗手，医护人员也有感染风险。
What we now know is that it spreads from person to person, for example in social interaction or face-to-face contact close to home, and that doctors and nurses are at risk of infection if they do not pay enough attention in hospitals, such as not washing their hands promptly.
但我们的确还不知道这个病毒具体的传播性。
But we do not know the exact transmission of the virus.
我们也不知道，一些国家采取的措施是否有效，每个人都希望是有效的，但现在没人知道。
We also do not know whether the measures taken by some countries are effective, as everyone would wish, but no one knows now.
现在各国都在依据公共卫生方面的已知信息采取行动，并遵循一定的准则。
Countries are now acting on the basis of known information on public health and following certain guidelines.
界面新闻：您认为日本是否有必要取消东京奥运会？海曼：现在做决定还太早。
Interface News: Do you think it's necessary for Japan to cancel the Tokyo OlympicsHyman: It's too early to make a decision.
界面新闻：您现在有看到拐点吗？海曼：现在，在中国以外，已经有25个国家发现了病例。
Interface News: Do you see the inflection point now? Haiman: Now, outside of China, there have been 25 cases in different countries.
这些国家都正在努力开展防控工作，一些国家已经看到了一定成效，而另一些国家的进展并不顺利，但我希望最终所有国家会进入同样的步调，阻止疫情的蔓延。
These countries are working hard on prevention and control, some have seen some success, others have not, but I hope that eventually all countries will be at the same pace to stop the spread of the epidemic.
界面新闻：人口密度是不是也是一个影响因素？比如在欧美一些人口密度较小的国家，情况会好一些？海曼：是的。
Interface News: Is population density also a factor? For example, in some countries with low population densities in Europe and the United StatesHyman: Yes.
如果病毒能在人际间传播，人口密度越大，控制起来就越难。
If the virus can spread from person to person, the greater the population density, the more difficult it will be to control.
不过，我们现在还不知道这个病毒的传播特性，不知道它在多大程度上容易或是不易传播，尤其是在开放的空间，还需要观望。
However, we do not yet know the nature of the virus, how easy or not easy to spread, especially in open spaces, need to wait and see.
当然，人口密度大的国家，普通人与病例接触的风险会更高。
Of course, in countries with high population densities, the risk of exposure of the general population to cases is higher.
界面新闻：您对药物和疫苗有什么了解吗？海曼：西方国家已正在研制疫苗，但至少还需要6至9个月，或是一年甚至更多的时间。
Interface News: What do you know about drugs and vaccines? Hyman: Western countries are already developing vaccines, but it will take at least six to nine months, or a year or more.
现在中国也正在进行药物的临床试验，许多工作都正在开展，我认为这对遏制疫情蔓延是有帮助的。
Now that clinical trials of drugs are under way in China and a lot of work is under way, I think it will help to contain the spread of the epidemic.
当然我说的不只是中国采取的手段，因为这些措施在其他国家也能看到，但中国的情况更加特别，所以中国已经做得很不错了。
Of course I'm not just talking about the Chinese approach, because these measures can be seen in other countries as well, but the situation in China is more special, so China has done very well.
中国在遏制疫情的工作中已做出很大的努力，尤其是在阻止疫情向其他国家蔓延方面。
China has made great efforts to contain the epidemic, especially in halting its spread to other countries.
和疫情刚爆发的时候相比，中国显然已经延缓了疫情蔓延至全球的速度。
It is clear that China has slowed the spread of the epidemic around the world compared to the immediate outbreak.
我希望中国接下来也能更好地遏制疫情在国内的发展，就像“非典”时期一样。
I hope China will also be able to better contain the epidemic at home, as it did during SARS.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫组织前传染病事务主任：现在说病毒将感染全球2/3人口还太早。
Former WHO Director of Infectious Diseases: It is too early to say that the virus will infect two-thirds of the world's population.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "世卫组织前传染病事务主任：现在说病毒将感染全球2/3人口还太早";。
var msg _ title = & quot; former Director of Infectious Diseases at WHO: It is too early to say that the virus will infect two-thirds of the world's population;;
var msg_desc = "“各国应该做的，是继续遏制病毒的传播，减少人们与病毒的接触，隔离病例并追踪接触者。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "What countries should do is continue to halt the spread of the virus, reduce people's exposure to it, isolate cases and track contacts.
中国在这方面已做出很大的努力，和疫情刚爆发时相比，中国显然已经延缓了疫情蔓延至全球的速度。
China has made great efforts in this regard, and it is clear that China has slowed the spread of the epidemic to the global level since the outbreak began.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
