武汉病毒所回应网传“零号病人”。
Wuhan virus response network transmission "zero patients."
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫“ 黄燕玲表示，她本人在成都生活的好好的，造谣者是加拿大华裔。
Photo Source: Toothworm "Huang Yanling says she herself lives well in Chengdu and that the rumormonger is of Canadian Chinese origin.
”2020年2月16日中午，针对网上热议的“武汉病毒所一研究生系零号病人”的信息，中国科学院武汉病毒研究所在其官网发布公告称，网传信息不实。
Wuhan Institute of Sciences Wuhan Institute of Virus, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, published a notice on its website saying it was not telling the truth about the hotly debated case of Wuhan virus zero among postgraduate students.
此前中国科学院武汉病毒研究所研究员石正丽接受新京报采访时明确表示，该所无一人感染新冠肺炎。
Earlier, Shi Zhengli, a researcher at the Wuhan Institute of Virus at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told the Beijing News that none of them had contracted pneumonia.
2月15日，一则关于“武汉病毒研究所一名女研究生黄某某是新冠病毒肺炎零号病人”的消息在网络流传。
Feb. 15, a report on "Wuhan virus research institute a female graduate student Huang is the new crown virus pneumonia zero patients" in the network circulation.
网络流传的截图显示：武汉（新冠）病毒肺炎的零号病人是黄燕玲，系武汉病毒所科研人员，2012年考入武汉病毒研究所的硕士研究生。
Network circulating screenshots show that Wuhan (new crown) virus pneumonia patient zero is Huangyanling, Wuhan virus research personnel, in 2012 admitted to Wuhan Institute of Virus master graduate students.
根据武汉病毒所发布于2011年11月4日的《2012年度推荐免试硕士研究生拟录取名单公示》显示，黄燕玲系西南交大推荐的学术性硕士。
According to Wuhan virus released on November 4, 2011, "2012 Recommended Admission List for Master's degree students," Huang Yanling Department of Southwest Jiaotong recommended an academic master's degree.
就此次关于黄燕玲的网络传言，据新京报2月15日报道，武汉病毒所研究员石正丽、流感病毒实验室研究员陈全姣二人均表示，对病毒所是否有一位名叫黄燕玲的女研究生并不掌握，但可以保证武汉病毒所目前无一人感染新冠肺炎。
Both Shi Zhengli, a researcher at Wuhan Virus Institute, and Chen Quan Jiao, a researcher at the influenza laboratory, said they did not know whether there was a female graduate student named Huang Yanling, but there was no guarantee that none of the Wuhan Virus Institute was currently infected with the new crown pneumonia.
2月16日，黄燕玲研究生期间的导师危宏平也在朋友圈发文回应称，“近2天接到许多电话或邮件，咨询曾在本组学习过的黄燕玲同学近况，我是她导师，黄燕玲同学2015年7月硕士顺利毕业后，一直在外地城市工作。
On February 16, Wei Hongping, a graduate student tutor in Huang Yanling, also replied in a letter to friends that "I have received many phone calls or e-mails in the past two days to enquire about the recent situation of her former classmate who studied in the Section.
经与她本人电话确认，目前黄燕玲同学身体健康，一切安好！”此外，微信公众号铁犀牛2月16日推送了黄燕玲本人辟谣消息，黄燕玲表示，她本人在成都生活，造谣者是加拿大华裔，目前正在想办法调查此人。
She confirmed by phone that she is now in good health and doing well, "said Huang Yanling, who lives in Chengdu and is looking for ways to investigate her own life in Chengdu.
2月16日中午，中国科学院武汉病毒研究所在其官网发布公告称，近期网络流传不实信息，称我所毕业生黄燕玲是所谓的最早感染新冠病毒的“零号病人”。
The Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences announced on its website at noon on Feb. 16 that recent Internet rumors had spread that my graduate Huang Yanling was the so-called zero patient who first contracted the new crown virus.
经查证，武汉病毒研究所郑重声明，黄燕玲同学于2015年在我所毕业获得硕士学位，在学期间的研究内容为噬菌体裂解酶的功能及抗菌广谱性，毕业后一直在其他省份工作生活，未曾回过武汉，未曾被2019新型冠状病毒感染，身体健康。
After verification, Wuhan virus research institute solemnly declared that Huang Yanling, who graduated from my master's degree in 2015, had studied phage pyrolytic enzyme function and broad spectrum of antimicrobial activities. After graduation, she has been working and living in other provinces and has not returned to Wuhan.
公告还表示，值此抗疫关键时刻，相关谣言极大干扰了我所的科研攻关工作。
The announcement also said that at this critical moment in the fight against the disease, related rumors have greatly interfered with my research work.
我们保留依法追究法律责任的权利。
We reserve the right to investigate legal responsibility according to law.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉病毒所回应网传“零号病人”。
Wuhan virus response network transmission "zero patients."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉病毒所回应网传“零号病人”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by Wuhan virus.
var msg_desc = "黄燕玲表示，她本人在成都生活的好好的，造谣者是加拿大华裔。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Huang says that she herself has lived well in Chengdu, and that the rumor makers are of Canadian origin.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
