今年北京写字楼新增供应要下滑近一半。
New office supply in Beijing will fall by nearly half this year.
孙梅欣。
Sun Meixin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
作者：孙梅欣“ 线上医疗、云办公、远程教育等行业潜藏扩张机遇。
Author: Sun Meixin "online medicine, cloud office, distance education and other industries hidden expansion opportunities.
”随着2月中上旬企业陆续复工，疫情对商业地产的影响正在逐步展现。
The epidemic's impact on commercial property is unfolding as businesses resume work in the first half of February.
戴德梁行近期的报告显示，针对近期疫情对中国经济的影响，牛津经济研究院(Oxford Economics)将2020年的预测下调0.4个百分点至 5.6%。
In response to the impact of the recent outbreak on the Chinese economy, Oxford Economics cut its 2020 forecast by 0.4 percentage points to 5.6 per cent, according to a recent report by Deidleigh.
但报告认为，是否能够达到或者超越这一数值，还要看疫情持续时间的长短，以及各地财政支持的力度。
But the report says the numbers can be reached or exceeded depending on the duration of the epidemic and the level of financial support.
德勤(Deloitte)最近的一项调查证实显示，在接受调查的CEO中，近50%保持了本年度设定的财务目标，14%的CEO大幅调低了绩效目标。
A recent Deloitte survey confirmed that nearly 50 per cent of CEOs surveyed maintained the financial targets set for the year, while 14 per cent had sharply lowered their performance targets.
仲量联行的报告中，也有类似的反映。
A similar response was found in the report of Midway Associates.
在一项针对其位于北京业主的调查显示，仅有15.4%的业主认为，疫情对市场产生的是轻度及以下的影响，69.3%的业主认为影响达到“中度和显著”，15%的业主认为疫情对市场会产生高烈度的重大影响。
In a survey of property owners in Beijing, only 15.4 percent said the epidemic had a mild to moderate impact on the market, 69.3 percent said the impact was "moderate and significant," and 15 percent said the epidemic would have a significant impact on the market.
尽管重点城市尚未达到全面复工，但报告初步判断，就北京写字楼市场而言，本季度乃至部分年内入市的项目预计将多有推迟， 写字楼市场整体活跃度将会显著降低。
Although the key cities have not yet reached full resumption of work, but the report preliminary judgment, Beijing office market, this quarter or part of the project is expected to delay more, office market activity as a whole will be significantly reduced.
“年初预计今年北京写字楼市场的新增量约在190万平方米，但受到疫情的影响，最终的实际入市量，有可能只在120万方-100万方的水平。
"The new increase in the office market in Beijing this year is expected to be about 1.9 million square metres this year, but due to the epidemic, the final real volume is likely to be in the range of 1.2 million to 1 million square meters."
”戴德梁行北中国区研究部主管魏东表示，工地延期复工，民工延期返程，都会导致写字楼项目入市量的延迟。
Wei Dong, head of research at Detleigh North China, said delays in the resumption of construction work and delays in returning migrant workers would cause delays in the entry of office projects.
另外，由于疫情所带来的各行业增速放缓，投资方和业主方也会适时做出调整：“往年的预计量和最终实际上市量基本会有30%的浮动，但今年的差距显然会更大。
Investors and homeowners will also adjust as the epidemic slows growth in industries: "Forecasts for previous years and the final real volume will basically fluctuate by 30 per cent, but this year the gap will obviously be even larger."
”不过，北京写字楼新增量的减少，对于市场而言，或许能够起到缓冲作用。
However, a reduction in the number of new office additions to Beijing could cushion the market.
2019年四季度的数据显示，全市甲级平均写字楼空置率为13.5%，平均租金环比下降1.5%，同比下降4.4%，为近8年来的最大降幅。
Figures for the fourth quarter of 2019 show that the city's average office vacancy rate for Grade A offices is 13.5 per cent, while the average rent-to-ring ratio has fallen 1.5 per cent, or 4.4 per cent year-on-year, the largest decrease in nearly eight years.
受到疫情的影响，今年北京甲级写字楼的净吸纳量将会承压。
The net absorption of Grade A offices in Beijing will be under pressure this year because of the epidemic.
魏东认为，新增供应量的减少，能够缓解北京写字楼空置率的下行压力。
Weidong believes that the new supply reduction, can ease Beijing office vacancy rate downward pressure.
“根据早前的测算，2020年是近年北京写字楼新增供应量最大的一年，但到了2021年，上市量预计仅有30万方。
"According to earlier estimates, 2020 is the biggest new supply of office space in Beijing in recent years, but by 2021 it is expected to be just 300,000 units."
现在2020年的新增量延期，对于未来两年迅速下滑的市场供应来说，起到平衡作用。
Now a new incremental extension in 2020 will balance the fast-declining supply of markets over the next two years.
”魏东表示。
"said Wei.
疫情的广泛影响，使得不少机构参照2003年非典期间的行业数据，对未来可能造成的市场行情进行预判。
The widespread impact of the epidemic has led many agencies to use industry data from the 2003 SARS epidemic to predict the likely future market conditions.
仲量联行的数据显示，2003年2-3季度北京甲级写字楼平均租金环比下降3%和4%，全年租金水平仅同比下降6%，到了2004年北京甲写平均租金录得既同比出现11.2%的增长。
According to Zhong Qian, the average rent ratio for Grade A offices in Beijing fell by 3% and 4% in the second to third quarters of 2003, while the annual rent level fell by only 6% year on year.
但全市租赁活跃度大幅下降，2003年甲写净吸纳量仅 4.7万平方米，仅为上年同期的37%，是 2004年的24%。
But the city's rental activity dropped sharply, with a net intake of only 47,000 square meters in 2003, up from 37 percent a year earlier and 24 percent in 2004.
2019年的数据显示，北京全市甲级写字楼租金成本已经达到21.6亿元，是2003年的21倍。
According to 2019 data, the cost of renting Grade A offices in Beijing has reached 2.16 billion yuan, 21 times the figure for 2003.
虽然市场有更庞大的体量和更强的抵御风险的能力，但考虑到2019年即存在经济下行压力带来的市场波动，因此需要各方面调整应对措施分配疫情成本。
While markets are larger and more resilient, given the market volatility associated with economic downward pressure in 2019, responses will be needed to allocate the costs of the epidemic.
不过到目前为止，相较于商业项目出现的众多减租情况，仲量联行针对北京写字楼业主的调查显示，仅有 23%的业主表示，尽管业主已经进一步下调对自身项目 2020 年租金和项目表现的预期，并对项目做出调整或计划制定更为灵活的租赁策略，但仍有61%的受访业主表示，目前不考虑对现有租户给予租金的补贴或减免。
But so far, only 23 per cent of owners said they were not considering a rent subsidy or reduction for existing tenants, even though they had further revised their 2020 rental and project performance expectations and adjusted or planned more flexible rental strategies compared with the numerous rent cuts experienced in commercial projects.
报告认为，在 2019年北京甲写租赁成交中，承租面积小于1000平方米的中、小型企业占比超过50%，是办公楼需求的主要来源。
According to the report, in 2019 the proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises with a lease area of less than 1,000 square metres in Beijing is more than 50 per cent, making it the main source of demand for office buildings.
而随着中小企业面临着因经营活动停滞出现的现金流压力，尤其需要针对中小微企业的定向扶持政策。
With the small and medium-sized enterprises face the cash flow pressure due to the stagnation of business activities, especially the need for targeted support policies for MSMEs.
值得注意的是，尽管受疫情影响的行业广泛，但也有一些行业表现出活力。
It is worth noting that, while the industries affected by the epidemic are extensive, there are also sectors that have shown dynamism.
戴德梁行报告显示，医药与医疗设备，线上游戏、远程教育等互联网行业将快速发展 , 从而引发其扩租或新租的办公租赁需求。
Detleigh reported that the internet industry, including pharmaceuticals and medical devices, online games and distance education, will grow rapidly, triggering demand for new office leases or extensions.
“从复工之后，很多企业仍然选择居家办公的情况来看，一些‘云办公’的软件的使用率得到大幅提高。
"After returning to work, many companies are still opting for telecommuting, and the use of some 'cloud-office' software has increased dramatically.
”魏东表示，例如远程医疗、在线问诊、在线教育等在内的互联网企业，因为人们普遍的隔离而出现实际受益，不排除这些企业在疫情结束后，有扩租需求。
Mr Wei said Internet companies, such as telemedicine, online consultation and online education, had benefited from widespread isolation and did not rule out the need for such enterprises to expand after the epidemic ended.
包括电商在内，现在“被迫”扩展到了老年用户群体：“就商业形态而言，社区商业、新零售等等，满足‘最后一公里’社群需要的业态，也在这一轮疫情中，展现出较大的抗风险能力。
Including the telecoms industry, it is now being "forced" to include older users: "In terms of business patterns, community commerce, new retailing, etc., to meet the needs of the 'last kilometer' community, has also shown greater resilience in this round of the epidemic."
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
今年北京写字楼新增供应要下滑近一半。
New office supply in Beijing will fall by nearly half this year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "房产";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "今年北京写字楼新增供应要下滑近一半";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; this year.
var msg_desc = "线上医疗、云办公、远程教育等行业潜藏扩张机遇。
var msg _ desc = & quot; potential expansion opportunities in industries such as online medicine, cloud office, and tele-education.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
