湖北省统计局副局长开直播“讲课”。
Hubei Provincial Bureau of Statistics held a live "lectures."
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 王选辉 实习生 郑旭对于这次疫情，湖北省统计局副局长叶青用了“前所未有”来形容他所受到的影响。
Peng Pai reporter Wang electoral Hui intern Zheng Xu for the outbreak, Hubei Provincial Bureau of Statistics deputy director Ye Qing used "unprecedented" to describe his impact.
他向澎湃新闻回忆，周围人包括他自己，是在1月20日的晚上，当钟南山院士谈到这个病毒会“人传人”之后，才意识到这次疫情的严重性。
He recalled to the roaring news that the people around him, including himself, were aware of the severity of the outbreak on the night of January 20, when academicians spoke of the virus passing from person to person.
“也是从那时候开始，一些与疫情相关的措施开始慢慢执行。
"Also since then, a number of epidemic-related measures have been slowly implemented.
……这是我来武汉四十年来，经历过的最大的事件。
This is the biggest event that I have experienced in Wuhan for forty years.
”叶青。
"Ye Qing.
图片均来自叶青微博。
The photos are from Ye Qing Weibo.
叶青有写日记的习惯，几乎每天，他都会写一些东西记录下自己工作心得体会，并且联系一些时事热点进行评论。
Ye Qing has the habit of keeping a diary, almost every day, he will write something to record his experience of the work, and contact a number of current affairs for comment.
疫情期间，他将自己在武汉的所见所闻撰写成一篇篇《疫情日记》。
During the outbreak, he wrote a "diary of the epidemic" from what he had seen and heard in Wuhan.
日记中，有着他对于身边一些现象的思考，也有一些疫情形式下的经济数据分析。
In the diary, there are some of his side of the phenomenon of thinking, but also some epidemic form of economic data analysis.
他还向相关部门提出了对疫情的16条建议，包括全国一个省市支援湖北一个地市、进入中大型超市需要进行测温等，其中多条建议与目前政府正在实施的措施相契合。
He also made 16 recommendations on the epidemic, including the need for a local government to support a city in Hubei province and enter large and medium-sized supermarkets to measure temperature, many of which are in line with the measures being implemented by the government.
“这次疫情我们得到了许多的借鉴，也有很多需要改变的地方。
"We have learned a lot from the epidemic and there is a lot to change," he said.
”叶青建议，此次大疫之后，全国每个周六开展全民卫生运动，鼓励公务员和市民，至少一月参加一次。
Ye suggested that after the outbreak, a nationwide sanitation campaign be launched every Saturday to encourage civil servants and citizens to attend at least once a month.
疫情对于企业带来的巨大的影响，叶青通过直播等方式给一些企业家讲课，帮助他们回答一些国家的政策。
The epidemic has had a huge impact on businesses, and Ye Qing has given lectures to entrepreneurs, including live broadcasts, to help them answer some of the country's policies.
他认为，在疫情面前做到一靠自己，二靠政府，关注政府对中小企业的扶持政策，利用好政策帮助自己摆脱困境。
He believes that in the face of the epidemic to do on their own, the government, concerned about the government's support for small and medium-sized enterprises, use good policies to help themselves out of difficulties.
他预测，疫情结束后可能会出现‘报复式’的经济增长。
He predicts' retaliatory 'economic growth after the epidemic is over.
改变巨大的生活和工作在2月14日之前，叶青所在的小区还可以每个家庭凭票三天派一个人出门购置生活必需品以及粮食。
Change Your Huge Life and Work Before February 14, Ye Qing's community could send one person per family for three days on a ticket to buy necessities and food.
但是14日以后，小区不再允许居民进出。
But after the 14th, residents are no longer allowed to enter or leave the area.
“现在买东西都是网上下单，快递员放在小区门口我们自己下去取，尽量减少人员接触。
"Now shopping is online order, express delivery in front of the door we go down to get, to minimize personal contact.
”叶青说。
"said Ye Qing.
随着疫情的发展，湖北地区的工厂也全部停工，原本根据通知是2月14日复工，但是因为疫情形式依旧严峻，2月13日，湖北省人民政府通知，除涉及疫情防控必需、保障公共事业运行必需、群众生活必需及其他涉及重要国计民生的相关企业除外，省内各类企业不早于2月20日24时前复工。
With the spread of the epidemic, factories in Hubei province have all shut down, and as the epidemic situation was notified to resume work on February 14, the People's Government of Hubei Province announced on February 13 that all types of enterprises in Hubei Province would resume work before 2400 hours before February 20, except those related to epidemic prevention and control.
2月14日，叶青开始了网上办工，他所分管的三个部门都是在网上进行工作上的交流和交接。
On Feb. 14, Ye started working online, and all three departments he worked on were working online.
现在的他每天早上起床后会阅读当天和昨天的大量新闻和资料，中午开始写日记，晚上他还会在企业家组织的群里，为企业家做直播，给企业家一些建议。
Now he wakes up every morning and reads a lot of news and information about the day and yesterday. He starts to keep a diary at noon, and at night he gives live broadcasts to entrepreneurs and advice to entrepreneurs in groups organized by entrepreneurs.
“尤其是在疫情期间，中小企业的日子不是很好过，这时候我就要为他们解读国家及湖北对中小企业一些政策，安抚他们的人心。
"Especially during the epidemic, small and medium-sized enterprises are not very good, this time I have to read for them the state and Hubei small and medium-sized enterprises some policies, to pacify their hearts and minds.
”叶青说。
"said Ye Qing.
叶青在直播平台为企业家、网友做政策解读。
Ye Qing in the live broadcast platform for entrepreneurs, netizens do policy interpretation.
2月8日，湖北省政府办公厅印发《应对新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情 支持中小微企业共渡难关有关政策措施的通知》，从减轻企业负担、强化金融支持、加大财税支持、加大稳岗支持等四个方面出台18条措施。
On February 8, the office of the Hubei Provincial Government issued the Notice on Measures to Support MSMEs to Overcome the Storm in Response to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia.
而叶青所做的，就是为中小企业的企业家一条一条解读18条政策，“哪个企业家对那条政策有疑问，我就专门挑出来详细讲。
Ye Qing, on the other hand, is reading 18 policies one by one for the entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
”也正是因为有了这些每天都要从事的工作，即使待在家中，他依旧每天“忙得不可开交“。
Because of these daily tasks, he "gets so busy" every day that he stays at home.
这段时间，叶青向相关部门提了多条与疫情相关的建议。
During this period, Ye Qing to the relevant departments to put forward a number of epidemic-related recommendations.
坚持写疫情日记和建言献策平时的叶青，有写文章和日记的习惯。
Persist in writing epidemic diaries and advice to the usual Ye Qing, there is the habit of writing articles and diary.
他有自己的微信公众号，翻阅里面的文章可以看到许多“叶青看财经”“叶青看数据”等他平时所撰写的专栏文章和日记。
He has his own micro-letter public number, the article can see many "Ye Qing to see finance" "Ye Qing to see the data" and other columns and diaries he usually wrote.
从1月22日开始，叶青开始撰写自己的疫情日记，到现在他已经写了20余篇的日记。
From January 22, Ye Qing began to write his own epidemic diary, so far he has written more than 20 diary.
日记中，有着他对于一些现象的思考，也有一些疫情形式下的经济数据以及他给的建议。
In the diary, there are his thoughts on some phenomena, but also some economic data in the form of epidemic and his advice.
作为一名经济学者，他还列举了很多经济现象，并且认为在4月份过后，会出现“报复式”消费。
As an economist, he also cites many economic phenomena and thinks there will be "retaliatory" consumption after April.
“xx日，全国新增确诊病例……”每天的疫情日记，叶青总会先关注一些当天的疫情数据，之后是最近和当天发生的一些事情和中央一些政策评价。
"xx, the new confirmed cases in the country......" Every day the epidemic diary, Ye Qing will first pay attention to some of the epidemic data, then the recent and that day events and some central policy evaluation.
无论是正面还是负面，叶青总有自己的见解。
Whether positive or negative, Ye Qing always has his own opinion.
除此以外，叶青还会在日记中给出自己的建议。
In addition, Ye Qing will give her own suggestions in her diary.
在叶青的日记中，他关注到了这次疫情所引发的许多公共卫生问题。
In Ye Qing's diary, he paid attention to the epidemic caused by many public health problems.
他认为，在公共卫生安全上，首先各级领导层要增强健康意识，医疗专家型的干部，可以承担各级副职，分管医疗卫生；各级非医科毕业的卫健委主任到专业院校学习半年再上岗；各级政府都聘请专家，组成经济发展、招商引资委员会。
In terms of public health security, first and foremost, the leadership at all levels should strengthen health awareness. Cadres with medical expertise can assume deputy positions at all levels and be responsible for medical and health care; non-medical graduates at all levels should attend professional colleges and universities for half a year.
他还认为，国家日后可以出台一个规定，在每周六设置一个公共卫生安全日，号召大家在这一天对所在的工作场所进行消毒和大扫除。
He also suggested that the state could later introduce a rule that would set up a public health safety day every Saturday, calling on everyone to disinfect and clean their workplaces on that day.
“这次疫情之所以爆发迅速，和日常的消毒卫生做得不够是有很大的关系。
"The rapid outbreak of this outbreak is very much related to the lack of routine sanitization.
”有着民主党派身份的叶青还有一个非常重要的职能，就是建言献策，疫情期间，他提了16条相关的建议，其中不少是来自他对生活的观察。
Ye Qing, who is a democratic party, also has a very important role to play in advising people. During the epidemic, he made 16 suggestions, many of them from his observations of life.
1月27日，他与夫人戴着口罩去超市采购生活物资，看到两个3-4岁的小孩坐在购物车里，妈妈推着购物，小孩虽然戴着口罩，但是鼻孔、嘴巴都露出来。
On 27 January, while he and his wife were shopping in a supermarket in masks, he saw two children aged 3 to 4 sitting in shopping carts, their mothers pushing their purchases and their nostrils and mouths sticking out of their mouths despite their masks.
走在超市门口他又发现，大门口没有人工或者智能测温仪以及排队交款的人挨得太近。
Walking in front of the supermarket, he found that there was no artificial or intelligent thermometer at the gate and people queuing up to pay too close.
他针对这个现象写了建议。
He wrote about the phenomenon.
他认为，小超市应该有人工测温员，中型超市以上应该有像高铁站、地铁站一样的智能测温仪；尽量打包销售；推广网上菜场等建议。
In his view, small supermarkets should have manual thermometers, medium-sized supermarkets should have stations like high-speed rail stations, subway stations like the intelligent thermometers; try to package sales; promote online vegetable farms and so on.
而根据叶青自己生活的感受来看，一些建议也在慢慢被实现和落实。
And according to Ye Qing's own feeling of life, some of the recommendations are also slowly being realized and implemented.
“我是民主人士，建言献策是我的职责，发现问题我就必须要提出来。
"I'm a democrat and it's my job to give advice, and I have to bring it up when I find it.
”叶青说。
"said Ye Qing.
“对经济形势还是看好的”在叶青的日记里，还有许多对于经济形式的分析。
"Still optimistic about the economic situation" in Ye Qing's diary, there is a lot of economic form analysis.
叶青认为，在大的格局方面依赖于湖北和武汉的区位优势，总体而言不会受到太大的影响，但对于经济增长方面以及一些小企业的打击比较大。
Ye Qing believed that in the large pattern depends on Hubei and Wuhan location advantages, overall will not be much affected, but for economic growth and some small businesses hit more.
“如果对比非典时期的经济变化就可以看出来，在经济增速上在第一季度上可能会出现较低的增长。
"If we compare the economic changes in the SARS period, we can see that the growth rate is likely to be lower in the first quarter."
”叶青认为，经过一定时期的低潮过后，叶青认为在第二季度的时候，全国经济会出现一个“报复式”消费。
Ye Qing thinks that after a period of low tide, Ye Qing thinks there will be a "retaliatory" consumption in the national economy in the second quarter.
“钟南山院士说，这次疫情在4月前可能会结束或者好转，所以我觉得在4月可能会出现‘报复式’的经济增长。
"Academics in Chung Nan Shan say the epidemic may end or improve before April, so I think there could be 'retaliatory' economic growth in April.
”叶青认为，因为疫情而压抑的消费会在疫情之后爆发出来，一些很久没出去的人开始消费，这时候就会拉动经济复苏，“非典时期，第二季度的经济也出现了下滑，但是在第三季度的时候也出现了‘报复式’增长。
Ye Qing said consumption depressed by the outbreak would break out after the outbreak, and some people who had not gone out for a long time started spending, which would trigger an economic recovery.
”但是面对“报复式”消费，叶青觉得还是需要在卫生问题上多下功夫。
But in the face of "retaliatory" consumption, Ye feels that more work is needed on hygiene.
“面对经济的恢复人群会重新聚集，人群多的地方卫生一定要做好，饭店也要适当对餐位进行调整，不要让桌与桌的距离太近。
"Faced with the economic recovery of the crowd will be regrouped, a large number of people must do a good job of hygiene, restaurants should also be appropriate to adjust the table, do not let the table and the distance too close.
”叶青对于经济形式的看好，也基于他对股市的观察，在叶青的日记中，2月3日的时候，约有百亿保险资金已抄底入市。
Ye Qing's bullish view of the economy is also based on his observations of the stock market, which on February 3 had about $10bn of insurance money in the market.
多家大型保险机构还向权益投资经理发出内部指令：周一不能净卖出。
A number of big insurers also issued internal orders to equity managers not to sell net on Monday.
大型保险机构内部一致认为，A股的长期走势并不因短期冲击而改变，上证指数2800点下方是长期投资者的好买点。
There is consensus within big insurers that the long-term trend of A-shares is not subject to short-term shocks and that the Shanghai index is a good buy for long-term investors below 2800.
他认为，这样的现象正是说明了疫情期间股市以及上市企业的给力。
This, he argues, explains the strength of the stock market and listed companies during the epidemic.
“我觉得，这次股市的数据，会和疫情的数据一样记入历史。
"I think the stock market figures will go down in history like the numbers of the epidemic.
”相比于有雄厚资本的大企业，中小企业面临的困境相对更严峻。
The plight of small and medium-sized enterprises is relatively more severe than that of large companies with large capital.
叶青表示，对此政府出台了降低费用、裁剪税收和免税、资金的扶持、就业等四大块的政策。
Ye said the government has introduced four major policies: reducing costs, cutting taxes and exemptions, supporting funds and creating jobs.
“尤其是针对一些生产口罩的企业，根据政策要对生产口罩人员工资加五倍，管理人员加三倍，有的企业可能负担不了，这时候就会由政府进行补贴。
"Especially for companies that manufacture masks, the policy is to increase the salaries of mask-makers fivefold and managers threefold, and some companies may not be able to afford it," he said.
”他认为，有了政府的补助，在经济的大局势上会维持一个比较稳定的水平。
With government subsidies, he believes, the economy will remain at a more stable level.
他也建议一些中小企业，在疫情面前做到一靠自己，实行降低成本和稳定职工；二靠政府，要关注政府对中小企业的扶持政策，利用好政策帮助自己摆脱困境。
He also suggested that some small and medium-sized enterprises in the face of the epidemic to achieve self-reliance, reduce costs and stabilize workers; secondly, the Government should pay attention to the government's support policies for small and medium-sized enterprises, and use good policies to help themselves out of difficulties.
同时，叶青还认为，这次疫情会带来一系列的产业变革，在这次疫情中，大量的声控和无人工产品投入使用，例如武汉市第六医院第一台消毒机器人就在防疫期间发挥出了它良好的效果。
At the same time, Ye Qing also believes that the epidemic will bring about a series of industrial changes, in this case, a large number of voice-controlled and non-artificial products put into use, such as Wuhan Sixth Hospital, the first disinfection robot during the epidemic produced its good results.
将来医院、机场、商场、火车站、汽车站、码头、行政中心、人群聚集区、家庭等都使用科技含量越来越高的消毒机器人，并且加以联网，这样必将带来一系列的商机。
In the future, hospitals, airports, shopping malls, railway stations, bus stations, docks, administrative centres, crowd-gathering areas, households, etc., will use disinfection robots with increasingly high-tech content and will be networked, which will certainly lead to a series of business opportunities.
“生产空气净化器的企业，应该是升格为生产消毒机器人的时候了，经过这次新冠肺炎，中国的大健康产业会得到快速的发展。
"The time has come for companies that produce air purifiers to become disinfectant robots, and with this new crown pneumonia, China's big health industry will grow rapidly."
”叶青认为。
Ye Qing thinks.
【附】叶青新冠肺炎应对16条建议1、关于加强超市管理的建议一是小超市应该有人工测温员，中型超市以上应该有像高铁站、地铁站一样的智能测温仪。
First, small supermarkets should have manual thermometers, and medium-sized supermarkets should have intelligent thermometers such as high-speed rail stations and subway stations.
二是10岁以下、70岁以上的人、孕妇在“新型肺炎”期间不要去超市等人多的地方。
Second, under the age of 10, over 70 years of age, pregnant women during the "new pneumonia" do not go to supermarkets and other places.
同时控制超市内的人数。
It also controls the number of people in supermarkets.
三是除了口罩，建议戴一次性手套、鞋套。
Third, in addition to masks, disposable gloves, shoe cover is recommended.
因为选菜、开门、付款等都要接触物品或者把手。
Because the choice of vegetables, doors, payment, and so on to contact the object or handle.
四是交款时保持一米距离。
Four is to pay to maintain a meter distance.
银行、机场都是这样，超市也可以这样。
This is true of banks and airports, but also of supermarkets.
五是把用过的口罩、一次性手套，放在门口专门的袋子里，外衣裤在阳台上晾晒，鞋子不要入家门。
Fifth, the use of masks, disposable gloves, on the door in a special bag, clothes on the balcony to dry, shoes do not enter the house.
六是推广网上菜场。
VI is to promote online vegetable farms.
七是调整称重员以及称重系统。
Seven is to adjust the weighing staff and weighing system.
现在是蔬菜区域的称重员很忙，而水果、肉类的称重员没有什么事情。
Now it's the veggie area where the weights are very busy and there's nothing for the fruit and meat weighers.
建议加以链接。
Links are recommended.
应该都可以称重。
They should all be weighed.
八是尽量打包销售，事先把菜包好、称好，拿了直接付钱。
Eight is to package sales as much as possible, to wrap the vegetables in advance, weighing up, took the direct payment.
减少排队称重的时间。
Reduce queuing time.
九是尽量使用微信、支付宝等自助计费系统。
Nine is to use micro-letter, pay treasure and other self-service billing system.
十是超市的货架要调整。
Ten is supermarket shelves to adjust.
2、保障婴儿生活用品的紧急建议由于有些商店的关门，不仅大人用品紧张，小人的用品也紧张。
Emergency Advice for Babies Because some stores are closed, not only are supplies tight for adults, but supplies for small people are also in short supply.
湖北母婴协会建议：（1）积极反映，引起全社会重视，尽快将宝宝用品（尤其是奶粉之类的刚需产品）列入民生物资。
Hubei Mother and Child Association suggested: (1) positive reflection, arouse the attention of the whole society, as soon as possible baby supplies (especially milk powder and other just-needed products) into the people's livelihood materials.
（2）对有条件营业、送货上门的母婴门店和店员提供严格防护措施。
(2) Strict protective measures shall be provided for mother and child stores and shop assistants who are engaged in conditional business and deliver goods door to door.
（3）重灾区消费者珍惜政府和全社会为母婴刚需产品挤出的物流资源和防疫资源，在专业人士指导下，一次性合并购买，一次性合理囤货，减少配送次数，降低从业人员的感染风险。
(3) Consumers in the hardest hit areas cherish the logistics and epidemic prevention resources that the government and the whole society squeeze out for the new products for mothers and babies, and under the guidance of professionals, make one-off purchases, rationally stock up once, reduce the number of deliveries and reduce the risk of infection among employees.
（4）其他疫情尚不严重的地区在物流和配送还比较宽松的情况下，应引起警惕，年轻父母应提前囤货，存够口粮，彻底掐灭宝宝断粮的风险。
(4) Other areas where the epidemic is not yet serious should be alerted when logistics and distribution are still relatively relaxed. Young parents should stock up in advance, save enough food rations and thoroughly curb the risk of food deprivation for their babies.
3、中药店开门的建议建议全国的中药店像超市一样，全部开门。
The suggestion of opening the door of TCM drugstores suggests that all Chinese medicine stores across the country open like supermarkets.
4、每个周六上午开展全民义务打扫卫生运动的建议新型肺炎给我们最大的教训，就是健康的生活方式，保持良好的生活环境。
The New Pneumonia has taught us the greatest lesson, which is to live a healthy lifestyle and a good living environment.
在环保工作受到重视的情况下，应该无死角地保持生活环境的清洁。
When attention is paid to environmental protection, there should be no dead-end to keep the living environment clean.
建议此次大疫之后，全国每个周六开展全民卫生运动。
It is recommended that a national health campaign be conducted every Saturday after the pandemic.
鼓励公务员和市民，至少一月参加一次。
Civil servants and the public are encouraged to attend at least once a month.
5、关于公务员不戴N95口罩的建议电视上，一些公职人员，包括领导干部，都是佩戴普通医学外科口罩，也是以身作则，并未佩戴N95口罩。
Advice on Civil Servants Wearing No N95 Masks On television, some public officials, including leading cadres, wear general medical surgical masks and do not wear N95 masks.
优先给一线医务人员、公安、交通、网格化排查人员用，他们接触人群多，接触疑似、确诊患者多，需要加强保护力度。
Priority is given to frontline medical personnel, public security, traffic, griddle screening personnel, they are in contact with a large number of people, suspected, confirmed patients, need to strengthen protection.
建议全国推广这两种做法。
It is recommended that both practices be replicated throughout the country.
6、民政部门关注“日光族”的建议目前，除了关注患者、医护人员、社区干部等之外，还要关注低收入者、无收入的流浪者。
At present, in addition to paying attention to the sick, medical personnel and community cadres, we should also pay attention to low-income people and homeless people without income.
我把这些人称为“日光族”。
I call these people the Sunnies.
即赚即花即光。
Earning is instant gratification.
靠收破烂、打零工，应付每天的花销。
Ragged and odd jobs to meet daily expenses.
过去还可以勉强度日。
You could just scrape along in the past.
现在则没有办法了。
There is nothing left to do now.
建议各级民政部门要关注、要安置。
It is suggested that civil affairs departments at all levels should pay attention and settle.
7、一个省市区医疗队人与物援助湖北一个地级市的紧急建议国务院能不能出台一个规定，让有条件的省市区派出医疗队固定支援一个地级市。
An urgent proposal from a provincial and municipal medical team for personnel and material assistance to a county-level city in Hubei province Can the State Council issue a regulation that enables qualified provinces and municipalities to send medical teams to support a local city on a regular basis?
包括人员与物资。
Includes personnel and materials.
当年四川地震，也是这种援助方式。
Sichuan earthquake that year, is this form of assistance.
8、建议招聘志愿者充实红十字会、慈善总会目前，各级红十字会、慈善总会工作异常繁忙。
8. Suggest recruiting volunteers to strengthen the Red Cross and the General Association of Charities At present, Red Cross and charity associations at all levels are extremely busy.
除了分配资金，大量的物品无法送达医院，有的红十字会在招聘志愿者，包括有车的人员。
In addition to distributing funds, large quantities of goods could not reach hospitals, and some Red Cross societies were recruiting volunteers, including people with cars.
建议启动志愿者充实上述机构。
It is recommended that these institutions be strengthened with volunteers.
9、把在外的武汉人照顾好也是帮助武汉这个时候，外地的武汉人过得好不好？可想而知，过得肯定不好。
Wuhan people outside to take good care of it is also to help Wuhan this time, the people in the field of Wuhan have a good life? It is conceivable that life will not be good.
26日开始，武汉人怎么回家的话题充斥微信。
Starting on the 26th, Wuhan people how to go home the topic filled with micro-letters.
在汉的武汉人，肯定会理解在外的武汉人。
Wuhan people in Han, will certainly understand the outside of the Wuhan people.
昨天我说了要善待武汉人。
Yesterday I said I would treat Wuhan people well.
看来这是一个需要全国人民帮忙的事情。
It seems that this is something that needs the help of the nation.
10、建立医务人员及时报告可能疫情线索的建议医生对疫情的反映是最敏感的。
10. Establish Advice for Medical Staff to Report Possible Outbreaks in a Timely manner Doctors are most sensitive to outbreaks.
国家应该建立疑似传染疫情直通国务院疾控中心机制，接到报告直接由国家疾控中心派国家级专家组来研究确认，形成快速反应，中间环节太多误事，宁可接报后确定不是传染性的，也不能等到发生了传染再来定方案。
The state should set up the mechanism of disease control center under the State Council.Upon receiving the report, the CDC will send a country-level expert group to study and confirm the report.
因此，我建议今后应该建立一种制度，让医务人员及时报告一些可能的疫情线索。
I therefore recommend that, in the future, a system be put in place for medical personnel to report any possible epidemiological leads in a timely manner.
11、对各级官员加大应对舆情能力提升培训力度在突发事件面前，最有效的办法就是首先表示歉意。
11, to all levels of officials to strengthen the ability to respond to public opinion training in the face of emergencies, the most effective way is to apologize first.
在互联网时代，政府官员突发事件应对要点有三：1）必须也只能讲真话，且注意实据。
In the age of the Internet, government officials must and can only tell the truth and pay attention to the evidence.
2）采访零拒绝，如有可能，把坏消息一次说完。
The interview is zero. If possible, break the bad news once.
3）学会道歉，降低舆论期待，不说大话。
3) Learn to apologize, lower expectations, and not brag.
因此，我建议开办各级干部应对新媒体培训班。
I therefore recommend training courses on new media for cadres at all levels.
这是非常重要的干部素质。
This is a very important cadre quality.
12、在捐赠物品中增加折叠床的建议可不可以给医院捐折叠床？医疗第一线缺什么，我们就支援什么。
Could you give a collapsible bed to the hospital? If there is anything missing on the medical front, we can support it.
13、居家隔离与集中隔离要相结合2月2日，武汉发布第十号通告，要求全市各城区进行“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作。
13, home isolation and centralized segregation to be combined February 2, Wuhan issued a 10th notice, the city's urban areas for "four categories of people" concentrated treatment and isolation work.
这四类人员是：确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
The four categories are: confirmed patients, suspected patients, patients unable to exclude the possibility of infection febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
这总算有点抗击新型冠状病毒性肺炎的样子。
It's a little bit of a fight against the new coronavirus pneumonia.
当年的“非典”就是这样。
That was what SARS was all about.
建议，各地也采取这种办法，把定点医院、集中隔离、居家隔离结合起来。
It is recommended that this approach be followed everywhere, combining the location of hospitals, centralized isolation and residential segregation.
避免走武汉的弯路。
Avoid taking the Wuhan detour.
14、卫健委主任要进行半年以上的培训当卫健委主任，不懂基本医学，是很可怕的事情。
14, health care committee director to carry out more than half a year of training when the director of health care, do not understand basic medicine, is a terrible thing.
黄冈市卫健委主任“一问三不知”，就是一个案例。
Huanggang City health committee director "one question three don't know", is a case.
在全国还有多少这样不懂医的卫健委主任。
In the country how many such untrained health-care committee directors.
因此，建议各级非医科毕业的卫健委主任到专业院校学习半年再上岗。
Therefore, it is recommended that all levels of non-medical graduates of the Health Commissioner to professional colleges and universities to study half a year.
15、办好网上展销会的建议在新型肺炎的影响下，各地都宣布停止办各种展会的通知。
Suggestions for Holding Online Exhibitions Under the impact of the new pneumonia, announcements of the closure of exhibitions have been made everywhere.
这对经济的影响是非常直接的。
The impact on the economy is very direct.
那么我们的各种展销会也应该搬到网上，长期做网上的展销会。
Then our various fairs should also be moved to the Internet, long-term online trade fair.
这样可以做到365天不闭馆，24小时都可以下单。
This allows for 365 days and 24-hour orders.
16、把国民健康保障纳入中心工作的建议通过此次“新冠肺炎”，建议把国民健康保障作为工作重点。
The proposal to integrate national health care into the work of the center led to the adoption of the "New Crown Pneumonia," which recommended national health care as a priority.
这是治国理政合乎理性的延伸。
This is an extension of rational governance.
建议从经济发展、环境保护推进到健康保障。
From economic development, environmental protection to health protection.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Dell Compute Plot Here into Dell Computers Computation of New-style Cases of Coronavirus Infection in the Country
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北省统计局副局长开直播“讲课”。
Hubei Provincial Bureau of Statistics held a live "lectures."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北省统计局副局长开直播“讲课”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情期间，他将自己在武汉的所见所闻撰写成一篇篇《疫情日记》。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the time of the outbreak, he wrote an "epidemic diary" of what he saw and heard in Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
