“直播”求医26天，“我删掉了写好的遗书”。
"Live" to seek medical treatment for 26 days, "I deleted the written will."
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 发自武汉 实习生 夏梦洁从1月23日21时许发出第一条求助微博，25岁的新冠肺炎痊愈者武康发布了50余条微博，粉丝从1000涨至现在的179万粉丝。
Zhao Mengjie, a 25-year-old newly-crowned pneumonia survivor, posted more than 50 tweets, with fans rising from 1,000 to 1.79 million, according to Zhao Mengjie, an intern in Wuhan.
这些微博记录了他从发病住不进院的无助、被病魔折磨的痛苦、亲人好友陪伴的温情、医护耐心诊疗的敬业、受到网友鼓励的感觉以及痊愈出院的开心。
These blogs recorded his helplessness from illness, the agony of illness, the tenderness of close friends and relatives, the dedication of patient medical care, the feeling of encouragement from netizens, and the joy of getting out of hospital.
网友“小武@BIGWUGOD”起落的心境、身体的状态通过文图透过屏幕“刺向”每天关注着他的这些粉丝，“今天还好吗？”“怎么样了？”，等待“小武@BIGWUGOD”更新微博成为很多粉丝的期待。
"How's it going today?" "How's it going?", waiting for "Xiao Wu @ BIGWUGOD" to update his microblog has become the expectation of many fans.
当无助、辛酸遇上爱情、亲情、友情，一部浓缩的26天求医史得以“直播”给众人。
When helpless, bitter encounter love, family, friendship, a condensed 26-day medical history can be "live" to everyone.
在接受澎湃新闻采访时，武康一连串列了好几个要感谢的人，他觉得这个特殊的2020年新年，足以让他记忆深刻。
In an interview with the roaring news, Wu Kang listed several people to be thankful for, and felt that this special 2020 New Year was enough to impress him.
他感慨：“这是我的新生。
"This is my new life," he said.
”以下为武康口述：我叫武康（化名），是一名曾给自己写下了遗书又删掉的新冠肺炎重症患者，现在我痊愈了。
"The following is Wukang oral: I am Wukang (alias), a serious patient who wrote his suicide note and deleted the new crown pneumonia, and now I am recovered.
第一次从重症室病床上熟睡中醒来，看到来打针的护士姐姐背上写着“都好”两个字，她和我打趣说，她比我小，我不应该叫她姐姐。
The first time I woke up from a deep sleep in the intensive care unit, she and I joked that she was younger than me and that I shouldn't have called her sister.
出院前，我看到了一位护士姐姐的名字反过来念就是“希望”，她的防护服上也写着“希望”。
Before I left the hospital, I saw the name of a nurse sister read "Hope" the other way around, and her protective clothing said "Hope."
她们医护人员的坚守，给了我们这些病人希望。
The persistence of their staff gives us patients hope.
武康住院期间佩戴的黄色手环本文图片均为受访者提供父亲偷偷在医院排队，“赶”不走生活的“奥妙”之一就是它的不确定性，就如我感染上新冠病毒。
The yellow bracelet worn by Wukang while in hospital provides one of the 'secrets' of fathers queuing up at the hospital. One of the 'secrets' of keeping away from life is its uncertainty, just as I was infected with the new crown virus.
1月19日，我在汉口火车站匆匆吃了顿饭，前后待了一个半小时。
On January 19th, I had a quick meal at Hankou Railway Station and stayed around for an hour and a half.
当天下午，感到身体有些不舒服，“没有力气”，晚上就出现了腹泻、高烧等症状，烧到39度。
That afternoon, feel a bit uncomfortable, "no energy," night on diarrhea, fever and other symptoms, burning to 39 degrees.
那时候身边几乎所有的亲朋好友，没有任何人有新冠肺炎表现出的症状，我以为自己只是吃坏了肚子，一直按照普通发烧来治疗。
Almost all my family and friends around me back then, and no one showed symptoms of pneumonia. I thought I was just eating a bad tummy and was being treated for ordinary fever.
在吃了女朋友帮我买的退烧药和感冒药后，烧退了但是疯狂拉肚子，就是在“拉水”。
After eating the antipyretic and cold medicine that my girlfriend bought for me, I burned back but crazily loose bowels, "pulling water."
20日，钟南山院士在接受媒体采访时明确表示新冠肺炎有人传人的迹象，女朋友把这个消息告诉了我。
Academician Zhong Nan Shan said in an interview with the media that there are signs of human-to-human transmission of the new crown pneumonia, his girlfriend told me.
我开始怀疑自己是否染上，但是周边同事朋友没有一个人感染，我就继续在床上躺着吃药，好在不发烧了，但腹泻依旧。
I began to wonder if I had contracted it, but none of my colleagues and friends around me got infected, so I continued to lie in bed and take medicine.
21日，发热的症状又缠上了我，38.8度不退。
On the 21st, the fever symptoms pestered me again, 38.8 degrees.
四肢酸痛、咳嗽加剧，洗澡时咳出的痰中还带着血丝，我开始觉得不对劲，赶紧让女朋友和我隔开，让千万别来找我。
Teeth sore limbs, cough aggravates, the sputum that coughs while taking a bath still carries blood in, I begin to feel wrong, hastens to let the girlfriend and I separate, lets not come to me.
我随即前往武警医院、湖北省中医院检查。
I immediately went to the Armed Police Hospital, Hubei Province TCM inspection.
中医院医生检查后，告诉我双肺感染，基本可以确定是新冠肺炎。
The doctor of Chinese traditional hospital examines, tell me two lung infection, basically can confirm is new crown pneumonia.
伴随的坏消息是医院无法收治我，想要开药和打针需直接找别的医院。
The bad news was that the hospital couldn't take me in, so I had to go straight to another hospital for medication and injections.
查询发现武汉市第七医院可以住院，但赶过去后医院正在改造，第二天才能进，我又匆匆赶往武昌医院。
Enquiries found Wuhan seventh hospital can be hospitalized, but after rushed to the hospital is being reformed, the next day, I rushed to Wuchang Hospital.
武昌医院的医生查看后也发现我的症状很像新冠肺炎，给我开了抗病毒的药，开了住院证。
The doctor of Wuchang Hospital looked up and found that my symptoms were much like the new crown pneumonia, gave me an antiviral medicine, issued a hospital certificate.
告诉我次日6点来才有空床位可以入住。
Tell me I won't be available until 6: 00 the next day.
当天晚上11点多，我父母又打听到武汉市第七医院开放收治像我这类的病人，我爸就偷偷帮我去排队，他排了很久，只为让我多睡一会，然后打电话叫醒我，让我去看病。
More than 11: 00 that evening, my parents learned that Wuhan City Hospital No. 7 open to patients like me, my father secretly help me to queue, he waited a long time, just to let me sleep a little longer, then call me up, let me go to see a doctor.
我当时很难受，让他赶快走，他不听。
I felt terrible. Let him go quickly. He wouldn't listen.
我赶到后“赶”他离开，他就躲在外面玻璃窗偷看我，我怎么“赶”都没用。
When I got there, I "chased" him away, and he hid himself outside the window and peeped at me. It was no use trying to catch me.
在武汉市第七医院，医生检查后也说我的症状基本是新冠肺炎，但检测试纸用完了，无法给我确诊和提供住院，让自行回家隔离。
At Wuhan 7th Hospital, the doctor also said that my symptoms are basically new crown pneumonia, but the test paper ran out, unable to give me diagnosis and provide hospitalization, let their own home isolation.
我问他，“我就这么回去吗？”还记得那位年轻医生用很平静和抱歉的眼神看着我说，“我比你更难受，因为我见了很多，但是却帮不上忙。
I asked him, "Am I going back like this?" I remember the young doctor looking at me with a calm, apologetic look. "I feel worse than you, because I've seen so much, but I can't help.
”我劝别我爸后，回到自己住的地方开始自我隔离。
"After telling my father goodbye, I went back to where I lived and began to segregate myself.
我给朋友们打了电话作为告别，说了什么我记不清了，印象最深的那句话是“可能以后就没我这个人了吧。
I called my friends to say goodbye and I couldn't remember. The one thing that impressed me most was, "Maybe I'm not going to be here anymore.
”22日下午4点，我拿着住院证去武昌医院，一直等到晚上6点，却被告知床位已满，无法住院。
At 4 p.m. on the 22nd, I went to Wuchang Hospital with my hospital certificate and waited until 6 p.m., only to be told that my bed was full and could not be hospitalized.
现场等待住院签字的病人都被劝返，护士说唯一可以签字的主任去抢救病人了，没有主任签字的住院单作废。
Patients waiting at the scene for an in-patient signature were persuaded to return, and the nurse said that the only director who could sign was to rescue the patient and the hospital certificate, which was not signed by the director, was cancelled.
此时我呼吸已经很急促，背上肺部位置有明显负重感，咳嗽咳血加重，四肢无力。
At this time I have been breathing very short, back lung position has obvious weight, cough hemoptysis aggravated, limp.
和病友交流，他们说我的病症速率很快。
Talk to my patients. They say I have a high rate of illness.
没办法，我再次回到家中隔离，拒绝父母女友过来照顾。
No way, I went home again isolation, refused to let his parents and girlfriends come to care for me.
当时能查到的定点医院，都只接受病危病人，认识的几个病友依旧徒劳奔波。
At that time, the designated hospital can be found, only accept the critically ill patients, know several patients are still struggling vainly.
我实在不知道我的情况，什么时候会突然病危，什么时候可以住院救治，只能靠着朋友、家人、女友的鼓励硬抗。
I really do not know my situation, when will suddenly be critically ill, when you can be hospitalized, can only rely on friends, family, girlfriend's encouragement hard resistance.
另一边，我也十分担心和我接触的亲人好友感染，电话得知我妈也有轻微症状后，特别害怕，我不想让他们尝到我身处的困境。
On the other hand, I was also very worried about the infection of my close relatives and friends. I was afraid when I heard that my mother also had mild symptoms.
次日，武汉“封城”。
The next day, Wuhan "closed city."
“封城”当晚21时48分，我在微博了发了第一条我与新冠肺炎有关的帖子，描述了我前几天的遭遇和当天的情况，底部@了“武汉发布”、“武汉市长专线”、“武汉市卫生健康委员会”以及诸多媒体。
At 21: 48 pm on Weibo, I posted my first post on New Crown Pneumonia, describing what had happened to me the other day and what had happened the other day, at the bottom of which were @ Wuhan Release, Wuhan City Chief Line, Wuhan Health Commission and many other media.
我实在想不出可以自救的办法。
I really can't think of a way to save myself.
帖子发出后，有上万人评论、点赞、转发，他们一边在评论区、私信鼓励我，一边转发呼吁帮帮我。
Tens of thousands of comments, commendations, and retweets were posted, encouraging me in comment areas and private letters, forwarding calls for help.
素未谋面，我特别感动。
I was especially moved when I never met.
24日，我身体出现了一个新症状，每隔几分钟，快睡着的时候，胸腔就会响一声，一下子激醒我。
On the 24th, a new symptom appeared on my body. Every few minutes, when I was fast asleep, my chest would ring and wake me up.
依旧是咳嗽、四肢酸痛、疯狂拉肚子。
Still coughing, sore limbs, crazy diarrhea.
爸妈做了十几个菜送过来放在门口，但都被我放进冰箱，实在吃不下去。
My parents cooked a dozen dishes and put them at the door, but I put them in the fridge and couldn't eat them.
我奢求不住院了，能打个针就行。
I can't ask to be hospitalized. I can just give a needle.
25日，事情有所转机。
On the 25th, things changed.
我所在的社区登记了我的信息，并帮我预约了医生，让我等消息。
My community registered my information and made an appointment with my doctor to wait for news.
我的公司也知晓了我的情况，同事们都十分关心我，主动联系问候并为我买了血氧仪，说是后续药物也会帮我购买。
My company also knew about me, my colleagues are very concerned about me, contact with greetings and buy me a blood oxygen meter, said that follow-up medicine will also help me buy.
26日，持续发烧，状态变得很差，社区安排了电瓶车接我和另一位病人去武昌医院就诊，我也终于打上了针。
On February 26, the fever continued, the state of poor, the community arranged for a battery car to pick me up with another patient to Wuchang Hospital, I finally hit the needle.
医生护士都很好，很细心的告诉我怎么走、怎么排队。
The doctors and nurses are very good, very careful to tell me how to walk, how to line up.
这一天，之前在武昌医院结识的一对年轻患病夫妻给我发来消息，得知他们病情有所好转，我很开心。
On this day, a young sick couple I met in Wuchang Hospital sent me news that they were getting better. I was very happy.
记得相识那天，我当时也是有感而发，跟他们说，“如果上天能让我们度过这次难关，一定好好热爱生活，感恩人生。
I remember meeting that day, I was also sentimental and said to them, "If God can let us through this difficult time, we must love life, Thanksgiving life.
”没想到那哥们能一直记住。
"I didn't expect the man to remember.
其实，我一直这么想，要是我“扛”过去了，我一定感恩生活中的每一件小事，再也不和家人女友吵架，多和好友聚聚。
In fact, I have been thinking that if I "carry" over, I must be grateful for every little thing in life, no longer quarrel with family and girlfriends, and more friends together.
我还想去现场看Ti中国举盾（TI是DOTA2一年一度的世界性比赛）、想看LPL三连冠、想看韦神17夺冠、想看中国再出几个NBA选手、想看国足进世界杯......写下遗书又删掉从1月19日出现症状，折腾了好几天，26日，我终于住进了武昌医院。
I also wanted to see Ti China Shield (TI is the annual world competition of DOTA 2), see the LPL triple win, see how many NBA players in China would like to see the World Cup... write down the script and delete the symptoms from January 19, 26, I finally live in Wuchang Hospital.
武康住院期间的床位当时住进来的时候，也不知道自己究竟是什么情况，出院后才知道，我意识模糊的时候，女朋友拜托了很多朋友打听到，我进的是重症病区。
When he was admitted to hospital, he did not know what he was like. After he left hospital, he found out that when I was unconscious, my girlfriend asked a lot of friends to find out that I was in an intensive care unit.
但是从头到尾，医护人员和身边朋友，全都没跟我说过。
But from start to finish, the paramedics and friends around me never told me anything.
朋友们每天都会给我发搞笑视频，医护人员每天和我交谈也不提“重症”、“病危”的字眼。
My friends would send me funny videos every day, and the doctors and nurses would not talk to me every day about the words "serious illness" or "terminal illness."
但我自己能隐约感受到，我处境不太好。
But I have a vague sense of myself that I'm not in a good position.
住进来那天晚上，有两位医生给我做CT，当时一位医生看完CT后说了一句，“怎么才三天（医生从23日开始算）就这样了？”我听后心里凉了一截。
The night I came in, two doctors gave me a CT scan, and one of them said, "What's it like three days (doctors start counting on the 23rd)?" I felt a chill.
主任医生拉走那位医生，然后跟我说，“放心，不是特别严重，你还年轻，肯定可以治愈的。
The chief doctor took the doctor away and said to me, "Don't worry, it's not that bad. You're young and you can be cured.
”我当时眼泪就流下来了，我知道他可能是善意的谎言，但是我真的很感激他，特别感激。
"I cried and I knew he might have been a white lie, but I really appreciated him and I was so grateful.
整个住院治疗期间，每天都要吃好多药，打很多针。
During the whole hospitalization, I took a lot of medicine and many injections every day.
当时，我有偷偷写下遗书，但是不久就删掉了。
At the time, I had secretly written the suicide note, but it was soon deleted.
每天最大的挑战就是自己撑起来拔氧管吃药，药真的太多了。
The biggest challenge every day is to prop up the oxygenation tube to take medicine, medicine is really too much.
清早趁我还没打针，我爸会送免疫球蛋白来，他远远的放在门口，然后一步三回头，等他走远了我才会去拿。
Early in the morning, before I had an injection, my father would send the immunoglobulin, he would put it far away at the door, and then he would go back one step at a time, and then I would not take it until he was far away.
我不知道这个免疫球蛋白还要打多久，每天四五瓶，太贵了。
I don't know how long this immunoglobulin is going to play. Four or five bottles a day. It's too expensive.
我和爸妈只说过病情，但至于身体有多难受，我只敢和朋友说。
My parents and I only talked about the disease, but as for how bad the body, I only dare to talk to friends.
我在微博上连续发布我每天的状态和治疗过程，起初是为了求救，后来就转变为分享自身病状，希望能帮到其他人。
I continued to post my daily states and treatments on Weibo, initially for help, then into sharing my symptoms, hoping to help others.
有很多热心网友都会不厌其烦的私信安慰我、鼓励我，我没法一一回复，每次写长文都是断断续续写好久，身体还是很虚弱。
There are a lot of enthusiastic netizens will not tire of comfort me, encourage me, I can not reply to each long article is written intermittently for a long time, the body is still very weak.
住院的那段时间，护士每天7点会来给我们量体温，37.2度以上算是发烧，血氧95以上算正常。
During the hospital stay, the nurse would come to take our temperature at 7: 00 every day, and above 37.2 degrees would be considered fever, and above 95 would be normal.
如果需要抽血做血常规检查，就要从早上5点开始抽。
If you need a blood sample for a routine blood test, start smoking at 5am.
2月3日那天，我一觉睡到8点多，是那段时间睡得“最沉”的一觉，早餐的豆沙包我爱吃，就都吃完了。
On February 3, I slept until more than 8 o'clock. It was the time I slept the most. I ate all my breakfast buns.
起来之后，看到来打针的护士姐姐背上写着“都好”两个字，她和我打趣说，她比我小，我不应该叫她姐姐。
When I got up, I saw my sister, the nurse who had come to give the injection, with the word "all right" written on her back.
武康住院期间，一位护士背部写着“都好”，寓意一切都顺利这些护士们平均20岁出头，都很年轻，有的比我还小。
While Wukang was in hospital, one of the nurses had a message on her back that everything was OK. The nurses were in their early 20s, some younger than me.
他们每天在病房里来回穿梭，病人输液、换瓶或者有什么情况时就会按响铃声，护士台中心就会呼叫，呼叫声一个接一个，基本很少停。
They shuttled around the ward every day, ringing the bell as patients infusion, changed bottles or anything, and the center of the nurses' desk called, barking one after another, and rarely stopped.
看到好多来给我换瓶的护士，靠着墙稍微歇息，呼哧呼哧大口喘气，防护镜上全是水汽，我眼睛会不自觉泛酸。
Seeing so many nurses coming to change my bottle and resting slightly against the wall, wheezing and puffing, the glasses were full of water vapor, I felt my eyes go sour.
有一次，看见给我打针的护士妹妹防护服背后写的是“晴朗”，她解释，她觉得这场疫情持续这么久了，应该是时候开始“转晴”了吧？病友们看到了则打趣说：“不对，应该写‘晴转阴’啊，哈哈。
On one occasion, when I saw the nurse giving me the injection, she explained that she felt that the outbreak had lasted so long and that it was time to start getting better.
”核酸检测阴性大家都很期盼。
Nucleic acid negative everyone is looking forward to.
我们病房里有一位80多岁的老奶奶，她很可爱。
There is an old woman in her 80s in our ward. She is lovely.
刚开始的饭餐都是志愿者送来的，奶奶每天吃饭前都像在祷告一样，“感谢这些志愿者、好心人送的餐。
At the beginning, the meal was served by volunteers. Grandma said, "Thanks to the volunteers, the kind people."
”每次对着饭菜说完才吃。
"Don't eat until you've finished your meal.
4日，我连着几天都没有发烧，3日晚上那个难扛下去的胸腔频率也降低了很多，大概只出现了四五次。
On the 4th, I did not have a fever for several days. On the evening of the 3rd day, the frequency of chest cavity which was difficult to carry decreased a lot, about four or five times.
但是咳嗽依旧，总归是在往好的方面发展，我安慰自己。
But the cough still goes on, always on the better side, I comforted myself.
这一天，打针时我的右手打不进去改打了左手，没有打留置针，两只手小臂和手腕都很疼，医生和我说针打多了是会有点疼。
On this day, I could not hit the right hand to correct the left hand, did not play indwelling needle, both hands, small arms and wrists are very painful, the doctor and I said that the injection is a bit painful.
5日，分早餐的护士妹妹最后又来了一趟，和我们说有多的早餐，还要不要？同病房的一个大叔又要了袋酸奶说，“不要白不要。
On the 5th, the nurse and sister, who shared breakfast, came for the last time to tell us how much breakfast we had, and asked for another bag of yogurt from one of the wards.
”我们都在笑，一早上气氛很好，大家都很乐观。
"We were all laughing ， the atmosphere had been good all morning ， and everyone was optimistic ．
同病房那个“话最多”的阿姨也出院了，以前偶尔觉得她有一点吵，但病房没了她，一下子变得很安静，我还是有点不习惯。
The "most talked-about" aunt in the ward was also discharged from the hospital room. She used to feel a little noisy, but without her in the ward, she suddenly became very quiet.
但我想，她和她的家人一定会热闹开心。
But I think she and her family are going to be so busy and happy.
6日，没有护士姐姐来给我打针，因为护士长通知说，我可以收拾一下，去方舱医院隔离。
On the 6th, no sister nurse came to give me an injection, because the head nurse informed me that I could pack up and go to the cabin hospital for isolation.
刚开始我有些担忧，因为网上一些言论，让我不免担心方舱的治疗条件不好。
At first I was a little worried because of the comments on the Internet, which made me worry about the treatment conditions in the cabin.
不过因为要继续输液没有去成。
But it didn't work because we had to continue the infusion.
后来看，大家在方舱都挺好，没必要特别担心。
Later, everyone in the cabin is very good, there is no need to worry about it.
8日，是元宵节。
It's the Lantern Festival on the 8th.
我去做了CT，与住院进来的（1月）26日相比，已有好转，但是咳嗽加重了。
I went for a CT scan, which was better than the 26 th inpatient (January), but my cough got worse.
晚上，医院给病人送来了汤圆，让我激动一番，还以为今年没得吃了。
In the evening, the hospital brought the patient the dumpling, which excited me a little and I thought I didn't have any food this year.
2月8日元宵节当天，医院给武康这类病人准备了元宵9日，一位护士妹妹的防护服上写着“有我在！雷神！”听说雷神山也准备开始收治病人了，得到救治的人一定会越来越多，情况也会越来越好的，我期望拐点早日到来。
On Feb. 8, the Lantern Festival, the hospital for Wukang such patients prepared Lantern Festival 9, a nurse sister's protective clothing said "I am! Thor!" I heard that Lui Shenshan is also ready to start treatment, the number of people will be more and more, the situation will be better, I look forward to the early arrival of the turning point.
10日，我和同病房那位每餐饭前诚心感恩的奶奶，核酸检测都转阴了，我眼泪差点流下来。
On the 10th, my grandmother and I, grateful before every meal in my room, all the nucleic acid tests turned cloudy and I almost shed tears.
这一段时间，多少次在鬼门关徘徊，最难受的时候遗书都写好了，哭着和好朋友道别，也不敢和爸妈说，现在终于转阴。
At this time, how many times in the ghost door wandering, the most miserable time of wills are written, crying and good-bye to good friends, do not dare to say, now finally overcast.
就是咳痰是又开始有血丝，医生给我开了药。
Even when I coughed up sputum and began to have blood again, the doctor prescribed medicine for me.
这一天，我看到一位护士姐姐防护服背后的字是“云能量，无限大”。
That day, I saw a nurse sister protective clothing behind the word is "Cloud energy, infinite."
结合自身经历，我的理解是，网友对我们这些病人每一份关心，对我们这些病人都是无限大。
Combined with my own experience, my understanding is that the netizens care about each of us patients, for us patients are infinite.
记得住进医院来的那天，我高烧不退、浑身冒冷汗、意识模糊，护士姐姐就给我戴了一个黄色手环，医生让我签各种通知书，我吓得要死，以为是我万一“挺”不过去了用来辨别身份，没想到小黄手环陪了我那么久，我也挺过了最难熬的那段时光。
I remember the day I came to the hospital with a fever, cold sweat and confusion. The nurse sister put a yellow bracelet on me. The doctor asked me to sign various notices. I was scared to death.
想给医护送奶茶2月13日，终于，两次核酸转阴，我可以出院回家了，但需要回家隔离观察14天，等一个月后再来复查。
Feb. 13, I was finally discharged from the hospital after two rounds of nucleic acid overcast, but I had to go home for 14 days of isolation and wait a month for a review.
出院前，我看到了一位护士姐姐的名字，反过来念就是“希望”，她的防护服上也写着“希望”。
Before I left the hospital, I saw the name of a nurse and sister who, in turn, said "Hope," and on her protective clothing was "Hope."
他们医护人员的坚守，给了我们这些病人希望。
The persistence of their staff gives us patients hope.
社区派了车来接我，路上风很大，我和司机说能不能开慢点，他说好，后面果然开的很稳很慢。
The community sent a car to pick me up. It was windy on the road. I asked the driver if I could drive slowly.
到家后我给司机鞠了个躬，转身回到了家里。
After I got home, I bowed to the driver and turned back home.
对于后遗症，我的出院小结上写着部分位置有“纤维灶”，有些紧张。
For sequelae, my discharge summary says there is a "fibrous cooker" on part of the site, a little nervous.
医生跟我解释，每一个重症患者基本都有纤维灶或肺纤维出现，这个东西就像你受了伤，伤好了之后会留下刀疤。
The doctor explained to me that every patient who is seriously ill basically has a fibrous lesion or lung fiber, something like a wound that leaves a scar when you heal.
“刀疤大，就有影响；刀疤小，就没有影响。
"Scar big, will have an impact; Scar is small, there is no impact.
”所以也想跟其他病人说，不要太担忧，没有盲目猜测的那么严重。
So, too, I want to tell the other patients not to worry too much, not so badly as blindly to guess.
回到社区后，我家门口需要贴上封条，特殊时期，我也理解。
When I got back to the community, I needed to put a seal on my door, and I understood it for a special time.
物业的姐姐和我聊天，给我带了很多消毒水和酒精，以及菜和药，让撑到下一次社区集体采购。
The property's sister chatted with me, bringing me a lot of disinfectant and alcohol, as well as vegetables and medicines, to sustain me through the next community shopping.
她将东西放在了门口，一个大袋子，有药物有青菜有饺子，真的特别感动。
She put things in the door, a large bag, there are drugs, vegetables and dumplings, really moved.
回家后，我把家里里外消了毒，洗了一个二十天都没洗的澡，感觉特别舒服。
When I got home, I took a bath that I had not bathed for twenty days. I felt very comfortable.
小区物业会定时来给我送菜和生活必需品，身体情况每天需要给社区微信上报三次。
Residential property will regularly send me food and necessities, physical conditions need to be reported to the community three times a day.
我觉得小区管理严格一点，是一个很大的进步，因为并不是所有待观察人员都会和我一样老老实实待在家里。
I think the strict management of the community is a big step forward, because not all the people to be observed will stay at home as honestly as I do.
在家期间，我算了下，前期挂号、买药、输免疫球蛋白等，我个人自费花了25180元，确诊后治疗费用11000，确诊的这部分费用已经明确可以报销。
At home, I calculated, early registration, drug purchase, immunoglobulin, and so on, I personally paid 25180 yuan, after diagnosis treatment costs 11,000, the part of the costs identified has been clearly reimbursable.
从感染发病到自我买药治疗、确诊住院治疗，再到康复出院，我要感谢很多人，这一遭艰难求医史实在难忘。
From the onset of infection to self-medication, to the diagnosis of hospitalization, to the recovery and discharge from hospital, I would like to thank many people, this difficult history of medical treatment in unforgettable.
还未痊愈时我说过，“如果我康复了，我想我会成为大家口中调侃的无敌抗体。
Before I got over it, I said, "If I recover, I think I'll be the invincible antibody that everyone is talking about.
”我就在想，等我康复后过了观察期，我也要加入他们。
I was just thinking that when I was well enough to pass the observation period, I would join them.
我联系了武汉血液中心，等观察期结束之后，检测身体没有什么问题，第一时间就去献血浆。
I contacted the Wuhan blood center, after the observation period, there was nothing wrong with the body, the first time to offer plasma.
看到新闻里的介绍，说康复后的病人体内有抗体，将血浆输到危重病人的体内后，对于他们来说是“特效药”。
Seeing the news that the convalescent patient has antibodies, the plasma transfusion into the body of a critically ill person is a "miracle drug" for them.
我还需要感谢医院的医生和护士，前一段时间我去过的所有医院，秩序基本都是稳定的，基本上病人都在规规矩矩的排队。
I would also like to thank the doctors and nurses at the hospital. In all the hospitals I visited some time ago, the order was basically stable and the patients were basically standing in line.
我在武汉市七医院碰到的那个年轻医生，仅在排队期间，他就连续工作了4、5个小时，我天亮离开后，他仍在诊室里接待病人，我不知道他的体力负荷是否超标，但是他没有抱怨，就坐在那里，一个接一个的病人，好似没有尽头。
The young doctor I met in Wuhan Seven Hospital worked four or five hours in a row during the line-up.When I left at daybreak, he still received patients in the office.
住院期间，一位照顾我的护士妹妹刷到了我的微博，经常鼓励我，她说她很喜欢喝奶茶，但现在都喝不到。
In hospital, a nurse sister who took care of me brushed my tweets and often encouraged me. She said she liked milk tea, but couldn't drink it now.
我想等疫情稳定后，给医护工作者送锦旗，还一定要送很多奶茶。
I would like to wait for the situation to stabilize, to send the flags to health care workers, but also to send a lot of milk tea.
之外，我还想感谢当时送我来医院的社区司机，穿着防护服，停车等待别的患者时，全是家里打给他的关心电话，他们不怕吗？我想肯定是怕的，但是他们仍然在岗位上。
What's more, I'd like to thank the community drivers who brought me to the hospital, dressed in protective clothing and waiting for other patients, all of whom were phoned by their families to care about him? I'm sure they were scared, but they were still on duty.
记得一次躺在病床看微博私信，一位网友说她这一天的十八岁生日愿望是希望我平安健康，这么贵重的礼物，我只能回以“谢谢”。
I remember lying in my bed to read a personal letter, a netizen said that her eighteenth birthday wish is to hope that I am safe and healthy, so expensive gifts, I can only reply "thank you.
还有一位网友给我分享了他们家那里的大雪，雪很大，厚厚的一层铺在原野，他让我快点好起来去看许多美丽的风景。
Another netizen shared with me the heavy snow in his home, which was very heavy, and spread on the plain. He told me to get better soon and see many beautiful scenery.
总之，太多的鼓励和感动，赶走了我的负能量，让我积极配合治疗，战胜了病魔。
In short, too much encouragement and moving, driving away my negative energy, let me actively cooperate with the treatment, overcome the disease.
真诚的来一句：谢谢你们！戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Thank you for prodding this place into the Dell Computers of Dell Computers for New Cases of Coronavirus Infection in the Country.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“直播”求医26天，“我删掉了写好的遗书”。
"Live" to seek medical treatment for 26 days, "I deleted the written will."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“直播”求医26天，“我删掉了写好的遗书”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "核酸检测转阴的那天，我看到一位护士姐姐防护服背后的字是“云能量，无限大”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The day RNA testing turned cloudy, I saw a nurse and sister wearing protective clothing with the word "Cloud Power, Infinite."
";。
;; & quot;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
