疫情中的武汉诗人③：先把所有的问题、抱怨和不解都放在一边_文化课_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Wuhan Poet in the Epidemic Situation: Put all the questions, complaints and incomprehension on one side.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 文化课。
Rite & gt; Culture.
疫情中的武汉诗人③：先把所有的问题、抱怨和不解都放在一边。
Wuhan poet in epidemic situation: Put aside all the problems, complaints and puzzles first.
澎湃新闻记者 范佳来。
Fan Jiaolai, a journalist.
2020-02-05 11:47 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-02-05 11: 47 Source: news surging.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
“慌乱。
"Panic.
”这是武汉诗人张执浩经常提到的一个词。
This is a word frequently mentioned by Wuhan poet Zhang Zhihao.
“看到外界的信息蜂拥而至，生命的无力感特别强烈。
"The sense of powerlessness is particularly strong when you see the outside world rushing in.
”1月23日10时起,武汉城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营,机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Wuhan city bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger service have been suspended since 1000 hours on January 23, and the Han corridor at airports and railway stations has been temporarily closed.
张执浩选择足不出户。
Zhang Zhihao chose not to leave home.
社交媒体和新闻里不断传来感染的消息，使他作为写作者倍感压迫。
The constant news of infection in social media and the news oppressed him as a writer.
在他看来，文学的意义在于对人性有深刻的见解，如果只是停留在表面的呐喊，就没有什么帮助，不如默默做一些力所能及的事情。
In his view, the significance of literature lies in the profound view of human nature, if only to stay on the surface of the cry, there is no help, rather than silently do something within our capacity.
“人所经历的一切，都会化作文学的经验。
"Everything a man experiences is transformed into a literary experience.
人性中所自带的生命之韧性与默默的善意，这是人类绽放的对生命的反思。
The tenacity of life and the quiet goodwill inherent in human nature are the reflections of human beings on life.
诗歌应该拥有强烈的悲悯意识，不能为时代所裹挟，有尖锐和独特的窥见，这也是文学的意义所在。
Poetry should have a strong sense of compassion, can not be carried by the times, there is a sharp and unique peep, which is the significance of literature.
”张执浩 本文图片由受访者提供封城期间，张执浩试着写诗，他笔下的《封城记》记录了作为个体的感悟：院子里的叶师傅被确诊/回想了半天才想起他儿子曾是我学生/那年夏天因抑郁症投江而死/傍晚我戴口罩去丢垃圾，抬头/看见月明星稀，好像不可能的事面对网上的部分舆论，张执浩感到痛心。
Zhang Zhihao tries to write poems during the closure of the city by the interviewee, and his "Tale of the Seals" records his feeling as an individual that his son was a student / died of depression that summer / I wore a mask to throw garbage, looked up / saw the moon shining faintly, and seemed unable to face some online public opinion.
“我理解人们的恐慌感，但是在灾难面前，更需要的是众志成城的决心，需要将心比心、设身处地的思考。
"I understand the sense of panic, but what is needed more than anything else in the face of disaster is determination to succeed and empathy and empathy.
某些攻击武汉的舆论，是与现代文明精神背道而驰的。
Some attacks Wuhan public opinion, is contrary to the spirit of modern civilization.
”“事实上，在我看来，在疫情中‘武汉’只是一个标签，我们面临的真正困境应该是，能否从中培育出一种生命的韧性，达观，从容的处世能力，这才是我们共同需要的‘自救’能力。
"" In fact, it seems to me that Wuhan is just a label in the epidemic, and the real dilemma we face is whether we can develop a resilience, a sense of perspective, a capacity to deal with the world with ease, which is what we need together.
”张执浩说。
"said Zhang.
“揪心”封城前，诗人沉河回到了位于湖北省潜江市的老家，“从没考虑过，居然会有回不去的一天”。
Before closing the city, the poet Shen He returned to his hometown in Qianjiang City, Hubei Province.
看着不断增长的确诊病例，他时时刻刻感到揪心，身边亲朋好友确诊的消息接踵而至：缺少床位、家人感染、无法确诊......沉河走在路上，会突然流下眼泪，他实在无法控制自己的感情了。
As he looked at the growing number of confirmed cases, he was haunted by the news of the diagnosis coming from close friends and relatives: lack of beds, infections in his family, undiagnosed... Shen River walking along the road, suddenly shed tears, he really can not control his feelings.
沉河老家向武汉捐赠的蔬菜现在，他连买菜都不需要出门。
Now, he doesn't even have to go out to buy vegetables.
他老家所在的村委会，将所有居民拉到微信群中，将每天需要的蔬菜统一登记，再统一购买，分发给大家。
The village council, where he comes from, draws all the residents into a small group and keeps a unified register of vegetables they need every day.
超市里许多物资接近断货——吃不到最新鲜的瓜果蔬菜，已经是这场疫情中，人们所遇到最微不足道的麻烦了。
Many of the items in the supermarket are close to being out of stock - not eating the freshest fruits and vegetables, which is already the least of the troubles in the epidemic.
“这种痛苦，只能亲身经历才能体会。
"This kind of pain can only be experienced.
很多人看不到，没办法将这种切身的痛苦传递给其他人。
Many people can't see, there is no way to convey the pain to others.
”沉河说。
"said the sunken river.
“这是一场比战争更艰难的战争。
"This is a more difficult war than war.
把所有的问题、抱怨和不解都放在一边，先让病人得到救治和隔离，这才是我们所有人应该去做的事情。
Putting aside all the problems, complaints and puzzles and allowing the patient to be treated and quarantined is what we should all do.
”“只有在重大疫情面前，我们才能感受到生命的渺小，个人的悲欢、人们追求的金钱、名誉是如此的微不足道。
"" Only in the face of a major epidemic can we feel the smallness of life, the personal happiness, the money, the prestige we seek.
”沉河说。
"said the sunken river.
封闭在家不能外出后，他只能依靠抄写《心经》和《龚自珍全集》平息内心的不安。
Closed at home can not go out, he can only rely on the copy of "Heart Sutra" and "Gong Zizhen Complete Works" to calm his inner uneasiness.
“最大的心愿就是这场灾难早点过去，希望战斗在一线的医务工作者，能坚持下去。
"The greatest wish is that the disaster is over earlier and that the medical workers who fight on the front lines will persevere.
”《心经》沉河在家抄写的《龚自珍全集》“理解”整个春节，在广播电台工作的诗人余笑忠基本没有休息，作为媒体人，他需要全天候关注每日的新闻。
"Gong Zizhen's Complete Works of Gong Zizhen," a copy of the Heart Sutra written at home, "understands" the entire Spring Festival.
“看着那些确诊人数和疑似病例不断增多，内心很难受。
"It's hard to watch the number of people diagnosed and the number of suspected cases increase.
但是转念一想，和被感染人群的伤痛相比，和那些不幸去世的人相比，我这点焦头烂额又算什么？”这几天，他收到许多外地朋友的关心和祝福，武汉这座城市也因一场疫情变得异于往常的平静。
But on second thought, compared to the pain of infected people, compared to those who have been unfortunate enough to die, what is this trouble of mine? "Over the past few days, he has received a lot of care and good wishes from friends in other places.
这几天春光明媚，大街上却没有人，张执浩形容为：“安静得能听见心跳的声音。
These days, the spring is bright, but no one on the street, Zhang described as: "quiet enough to hear the sound of heartbeat.
”这几天，在网上看新闻时，余笑忠也有自己的一些感受。
"In recent days, while watching the news on the Internet, Yu Xiaozhong has his own feelings.
“希望大家能够理解我们。
"I hope you understand us.
”余笑忠因为媒体工作的需要，他不时去办公室值班，遇到同样一脸疲惫、戴着口罩的同事，简单地打声招呼，不多言语，就开始了工作——身为一个普通的武汉市民，似乎只能在这样的非常时期，为城市默默贡献自己的力量。
Because of the demands of media work, he goes to his office every now and then and meets the same tired-faced colleague in a mask, says simply, without much words, and starts working - as an ordinary Wuhan citizen who seems to be able to contribute his strength to the city in such an unusual time.
武汉封城第14天，街道上渐渐有了过路行人和车辆，人们出门添置生活所需的食物和药品，大部分时候，城中仍是一片寂静无声。
Wuhan closed the city on the 14th day, gradually there are passers-by and vehicles, people go out to buy the food and medicine necessary for life, most of the time, the city is still silent.
在诗人小引看来，武汉现在就是一个舞台。
In the poet's view, Wuhan is now a stage.
2月4日，在最新的日记里，他这样写道：“2020年一开张就是鸿篇巨制，魔幻得很，也残酷得很。
On February 4, in his latest diary, he wrote: "The year 2020 will begin with a monstrous, magical, and cruel creation.
不知道是地球出了问题，还是人类出了问题。
I don't know if there's something wrong with the earth or with the human race.
”“或许多年以后我们想起这个漫长的春节时才会恍然大悟，这其实是宏大的宇宙规则为人类安排的一堂课，如果此时不认真理解，等这个节点过后，我们将再也无法回望今天。
"" It may take many years for us to realize that this long Spring Festival is really a lesson in the grandiose rules of the universe, and if we don't understand it carefully enough, we won't be able to look back.
”(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(For more original news, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：梁佳校对：刘威。
Responsibility Editor: Liang Jia proofread by Liu Wei.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 武汉,新冠病毒。
Key words & gt; & gt; Wuhan, Newcomb Virus.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 武汉。
Tracking: Wuhan.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
听到体育圈的呐喊了吗？武汉“战疫”我们一定拿下。
Hear the cries of sports circles? Wuhan "battle plague" we must win.
武汉人日记｜我想记录下此时此地。
wuhan's diary I want to record the here and now.
宁夏确诊新冠肺炎28例：武汉男子从拉萨飞银川9日后确诊。
28 Cases of New Crown Pneumonia diagnosed in Ningxia: Wuhan man from Lhasa was diagnosed 9 days later.
评论（3）。
Commentary (3).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
武汉病毒研究所：黄燕玲毕业后一直在其他省工作，未感染病毒。
Wuhan virus research institute: Huang Yanling has been working in other provinces since graduation, not infected with the virus.
湖北电影制片厂员工常凯及三至亲去世，其妻、子目前情况较好。
Hubei film studio staff Changkai and three relatives died, his wife, son is in good condition.
全国第一例、第二例由遗体解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理今日送检。
The first case and the second case of New Crown Pneumonia obtained by autopsy were sent for examination today.
重大改革！习近平连提15个体系9种机制4项制度。
Major Reforms: Xi Jinping has proposed 15 systems, 9 mechanisms, and 4 systems.
湖北强化疫情防控：城乡所有社区等实行24小时最严封闭管理。
Hubei intensified epidemic prevention and control: All urban and rural communities and other communities to implement 24-hour maximum closed management.
齐鲁医院援汉医疗队否认队内医生曾说过“新冠病毒明显变弱”。
Qilu hospital medical team denied that doctors had said "the new crown virus significantly weakened."
法医刘良：完成全国首例新冠逝者遗体解剖。
Forensic Liu Liang: Completion of the nation's first new crown deceased body autopsy.
抗疫期间“任性搞事”何时休？在上海不守法，总要付出代价。
When did the "capricious act" break out during the epidemic? There is always a price to pay for disobeying the law in Shanghai.
武汉将开展为期3天拉网式大排查，王忠林：背水一战，没退路。
Wuhan will carry out a three-day pull net type screening, Wang Zhonglin: back water, no escape.
媒体追问：退休副厅长确诊后，还能这般任性？。
Press inquiries: retired deputy director of the diagnosis, can such wayward?
中国抗疫努力被诋毁，美国作家：厌倦了西方媒体抹黑中国。
China's anti-epidemic efforts are denigrated, American writer: Tired of Western media smear China.
岳阳医院一患者隐瞒病情致多名医务工作者被隔离，警方立案！。
A patient in Yueyang Hospital conceals his illness and many medical workers are quarantined. Police file a case.
蝗虫来袭，预警：4000亿只蝗虫已到达印度和巴基斯坦。
Locust invasion, warning: 400 billion locusts have arrived in India and Pakistan.
习近平：在中央政治局常委会会议研究应对疫情工作时的讲话。
Xi: Speech at the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo to study the response to the epidemic.
习近平主持召开中央深改委会议：完善重大疫情防控体制机制。
President Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Central Committee on Deep Reform: improving institutional mechanisms for major epidemic prevention and control.
北京市网信办约谈凤凰网负责人：违规严重，部分频道暂停更新。
Beijing Internet Office interview Phoenix Net responsible: serious violations, some channels suspended updates.
《梨泰院class》：高燃逆袭剧，爽点是什么。
Li Tai Yuan: High-intensity anti-attack drama, what is refreshing.
交通运输部：疫情防控期间全国收费公路免收车辆通行费。
Ministry of Transport: During the period of epidemic prevention and control toll road toll free.
全国医务人员确诊病例累计1716例，6人以身殉职。
A cumulative total of 1,716 cases were confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, 6 of whom died in the line of duty.
武汉病毒研究所：黄燕玲毕业后一直在其他省工作，未感染病毒。
Wuhan virus research institute: Huang Yanling has been working in other provinces since graduation, not infected with the virus.
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
中国抗疫努力被诋毁，美国作家：厌倦了西方媒体抹黑中国。
China's anti-epidemic efforts are denigrated, American writer: Tired of Western media smear China.
湖北省卫健委党组书记主任双双被免职，两职务由王贺胜兼任。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary group secretary of the two were dismissed, both posts by Wang He Sheng double-hatted.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
马上评丨诉诸情感的钟南山和诉诸专业的钟南山，合起来才完整。
Zhong Nan Shan, who immediately comments into emotion, and Zhong Nan Shan, the professional resort, are integrated.
武汉市中心医院主任蔡毅发文：悼念林军老板，我就这么送你了。
Wuhan City Central Hospital Director Cai Yi Fat Message: mourning Lin Jun boss, I gave you so.
岳阳医院一患者隐瞒病情致多名医务工作者被隔离，警方立案！。
A patient in Yueyang Hospital conceals his illness and many medical workers are quarantined. Police file a case.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
蝗虫来袭，预警：4000亿只蝗虫已到达印度和巴基斯坦。
Locust invasion, warning: 400 billion locusts have arrived in India and Pakistan.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国成均馆大学研究员于婉莹,韩国影视如何走向世界,问吧!。
I am Yu Wanying, a researcher at Sungkyunkwan University in Korea.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是韩国成均馆大学研究员于婉莹,韩国影视如何走向世界,问吧!。
I am Yu Wanying, a researcher at Sungkyunkwan University in Korea.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
武汉、湖北、全国重症病例占比均明显下降。
Wuhan, Hubei and the national proportion of serious cases declined significantly.
全国首趟返程复工人员定制专列开行，近三百贵州员工返回杭州。
China's first return trip to the staff customized trip, nearly 300 Guizhou employees back to Hangzhou.
湖北强化疫情防控：城乡所有社区等实行24小时最严封闭管理。
Hubei intensified epidemic prevention and control: All urban and rural communities and other communities to implement 24-hour maximum closed management.
全国第一例、第二例由遗体解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理今日送检。
The first case and the second case of New Crown Pneumonia obtained by autopsy were sent for examination today.
三大运营商开放用户14天内访地查询，提高流动人员查验效率。
Three major operators open users to 14 days to visit the site to improve the efficiency of mobile personnel inspection.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
