疫情中的武汉诗人①：在疫情中无法动笔写诗_文化课_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Wuhan Poet in the Epidemic Situation It is impossible to write poetry in an epidemic situation.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 文化课。
Rite & gt; Culture.
疫情中的武汉诗人①：在疫情中无法动笔写诗。
Wuhan Poet in the Epidemic Situation It is impossible to write poems in the midst of an epidemic.
澎湃新闻记者 范佳来。
Fan Jiaolai, a journalist.
2020-01-31 12:31 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-01-31 12: 31 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
“我在武汉。
"I am in Wuhan.
但我真的不知道此时的武汉，还是不是我渴望期盼的那个武汉。
But I really do not know this time Wuhan, or I yearn for that Wuhan.
”1月30日，诗人小引告诉澎湃新闻记者。
On January 30, the poet Xiao Qui told the roaring journalist.
小引原名王朝晖，1969年出生，除了诗人身份，他还是武汉大学土建学院的老师。
Born in 1969, he was a teacher at Wuhan University's Civil Engineering School, in addition to his status as a poet.
在武汉封城期间，他以每天一篇的频率，在自己的微信公众号上持续记录武汉的真实情况，引起了人们的关注。
During his stay in Wuhan, he continued to record the real situation of Wuhan on his micro-letter public sign with a daily frequency, which aroused people's attention.
同时，在做好防护措施的基础上，他和朋友们一起为武汉拍摄了许多“封城”期间的照片，希望记录这段历史，向外界传播及时讯息。
At the same time, on the basis of good protection measures, he and his friends for Wuhan took many "closed" period photos, hoping to record this history, to spread timely information to the outside world.
“最近这两天，看了很多武汉‘封城’之后来自全国各地的消息，那些直接而真实的照片和视频，让我的情绪很沮丧。
"In the past two days, I have read a lot of news from all over the country after the closure of Wuhan, and those direct and authentic photos and videos have depressed my mood.
疫情爆发以来，我一直反复提醒自己，告诫自己写文章不要冲动，不要情绪化。
Since the outbreak, I have repeatedly reminded myself to write not impulsive, not emotional.
但昨天到今天，我哭了两次，这真是难以置信。
But yesterday to this day, I cried twice, which is unbelievable.
”小引告诉澎湃新闻记者。
"the little quotation told the roaring journalist.
让他感怀的是，在生命面前，以往人们所追求的金钱、权力、名誉等变得不再重要，人们开始珍惜身边最宝贵的家人和朋友。
What struck him was that, in the face of life, the money, power, fame and so on that people had always sought were no longer important, and people began to value their most precious family and friends.
第一次流泪，是他看到一篇关于疫情的报道：一个女孩的母亲感染新冠病毒在医院死去，父亲因为照顾母亲也不幸染上。
The first time he shed tears, he saw a report of an epidemic: a girl's mother had died in a hospital and her father had taken care of her mother.
送走母亲后，女孩和父亲各种驾车停在路边，打下车窗却只能四目相对不能说话，最后女孩去找她的哥哥，两人导航定位重叠，但一个在高架桥上，一个在高架桥下。
After seeing her off, the girl and her father drove down the road and pulled down the window, but could only talk to each other. Finally the girl went to her brother and the two men had overlapping navigation positions, but one on the viaduct and one under the viaduct.
另一次，是看到电影《囧妈》片段，做企业家的儿子冒犯母亲，而母亲却依然倔强地容忍且试图纠正孩子。
Another, seen in the movie "Jomma," is the son of an entrepreneur who offends his mother, who still stubbornly tolerates and tries to correct her child.
看完后，他没忍住，给父母打去了电话，问他们蔬菜够不够吃，要不要给他们送一点去。
After he had finished reading, he called his parents and asked them if they had enough vegetables to eat and if they needed to take some.
“母亲在电话中说，没问题，够吃一星期的了。
"Mother said on the phone," No problem. We have enough for a week.
不等我说话，她开始反问我，你怎么样？儿子怎么样？把我问她的话反问了我一遍；又告诫我，要注意安全，要相信党和政府。
Without waiting for me to say anything, she began to ask me, "How are you? How's the son? Ask me again what I asked her, and tell me to be safe and trust the Party and government."
”面对母亲的关爱，小引又一次落泪。
"In the face of his mother's love, Xiao Quan cried again.
在他看来，此次爆发的疫情异乎于往常任何一次灾难，而且由于早期的操作问题，至今许多疑问都没能得到解答。
In his view, the outbreak was unlike any previous disaster, and many questions remained unanswered due to early operational problems.
现在灾情情况严峻，一线医务工作者奋力在遏制疫情，武汉整个城市已经成为举世瞩目的一座“孤岛”。
Now the disaster situation is serious, front-line medical workers are struggling to contain the epidemic, Wuhan has become the city has become the world's attention has become an "island."
“这也是我每天拍摄照片、更新个人微信号的原因，现在最重要的是把武汉的真实情况告诉外界，在灾难面前，信息自由的流转是遏制病毒蔓延的另一个有力的手段。
"This is why I take pictures every day and update my personal microsignals. The most important thing is to tell the outside world what happened in Wuhan. In the face of the disaster, the free flow of information is another powerful tool to stop the spread of the virus.
”小引说。
"said the little guide.
广埠屯地铁站的紧急公告 拍摄日期：1月26日。
Urgent Announcement for Guangzhou MTR Station Date: 26 January.
本文图片由小引提供听说第二天武汉中心城区禁行，小引去武商量贩店购物。
Wuhan central city is banned from the city the next day, leading to Wu to discuss shop.
拍摄日期：1月26日武汉大学和华师之间空荡荡的天桥 拍摄日期：1月26日武汉雨中的环卫工人。
Date of shooting: January 26, Wuhan University and the Chinese division of the empty flyover shooting date: January 26, Wuhan in the rain sanitation workers.
分别时，他挥了挥手，潇洒地把车开走了。
As he parted, he waved his hand and drove off smartly.
拍摄日期：1月26日在灾难面前，身为诗人的小引却无力拿起笔来创作。
Date of shooting: January 26 In the face of disaster, as a poet Quote can not pick up the pen to create.
“我不反对在灾难来临前创作文艺作品或是诗歌。
"I have no objection to creating works of art or poetry before disaster strikes.
”小引说，但在他看来，武汉疫情复杂，不仅仅是地震，车祸那样清晰明了，“瘟疫、病毒这样的东西给我们带来的伤害，迥异于坍塌、倾覆和爆炸冲击波。
But in his view, the Wuhan complex epidemic is not just earthquake, car accident as clear as the clear, "plague, virus and other things to bring us harm, very different from collapse, capsize and blast shock waves.
”在这位诗人看来，病毒正在从最低级的地方对人们固有的文化结构、思维模式、逻辑框架产生冲击，“或许，我们只能以病毒的方式击退病毒。
In the poet's view, the virus is impacting people's innate cultural structures, modes of thinking, logical frameworks from the bottom up. "Perhaps we can only defeat the virus in a viral way.
基于以上的观点，我个人目前在新冠病毒的疫情中无法动笔，也不愿意动笔。
Based on the above, I am personally unable or unwilling to write about the new crown virus.
但我并不反对别人动笔写。
But I am not opposed to others writing.
”今天，武汉迎来了久违的阳光，在小引的朋友圈中，许多人感叹一个多月来难得的好天气。
"Today, Wuhan has welcomed the long-term sunshine, in the small circle of friends, many people lament the rare good weather for more than a month.
也有人在微博上晒出利好消息，提到武汉确诊人数的上升势头在放缓。
Some people on Weibo bask in good news, mentioned that the number of confirmed Wuhan in the rise of the momentum to slow down.
“阳光照着武昌，照耀着汉口和汉阳，也照着病毒。
"The sun shines on Wuchang, on Hankou and Han Yang, and also on the virus.
传言说，病毒怕高温，冬天来，春天走，我不知道真假，也无从希望知道什么。
Rumor has it that the virus is afraid of high temperatures, winter, spring walk, I do not know true or false, nor hope to know what.
”小引在微信号中写道，此时他最大的心愿，就是这场疫情快点过去，武汉能从舆论风暴恢复到原先的平静。
"At this point, his greatest wish is that the epidemic will soon be over and Wuhan will recover from the storm of public opinion," he wrote in a microsignal.
武水著名的三岔路口 拍摄日期：1月30日正在囤货的武汉市民 拍摄日期：1月30日(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
2007-9-19 16: 48: 00 Wu Shui famous fork in the road shooting date: Jan 30, Wuhan city people shooting: January 30).
责任编辑：陈诗怀。
Responsible Editor: Chen Shihuai.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 。
Key words & gt; & gt;
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 新型冠状病毒。
Tracking: New coronavirus.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
记录“封城”的日子。
Record the day of the "city closure."
武汉封城后5日近两万鄂来人员进温州，该市细化疫情闭环管控。
Wuhan after the closure of the city nearly 20, 000 people into Wenzhou, the city refined the outbreak of closed-loop control.
封城11日，武汉众生图。
On the 11th of the city, Wuhan.
评论（9）。
Commentary (9).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
武汉病毒研究所：黄燕玲毕业后一直在其他省工作，未感染病毒。
Wuhan virus research institute: Huang Yanling has been working in other provinces since graduation, not infected with the virus.
湖北电影制片厂员工常凯及三至亲去世，其妻、子目前情况较好。
Hubei film studio staff Changkai and three relatives died, his wife, son is in good condition.
全国第一例、第二例由遗体解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理今日送检。
The first case and the second case of New Crown Pneumonia obtained by autopsy were sent for examination today.
重大改革！习近平连提15个体系9种机制4项制度。
Major Reforms: Xi Jinping has proposed 15 systems, 9 mechanisms, and 4 systems.
湖北强化疫情防控：城乡所有社区等实行24小时最严封闭管理。
Hubei intensified epidemic prevention and control: All urban and rural communities and other communities to implement 24-hour maximum closed management.
齐鲁医院援汉医疗队否认队内医生曾说过“新冠病毒明显变弱”。
Qilu hospital medical team denied that doctors had said "the new crown virus significantly weakened."
法医刘良：完成全国首例新冠逝者遗体解剖。
Forensic Liu Liang: Completion of the nation's first new crown deceased body autopsy.
抗疫期间“任性搞事”何时休？在上海不守法，总要付出代价。
When did the "capricious act" break out during the epidemic? There is always a price to pay for disobeying the law in Shanghai.
武汉将开展为期3天拉网式大排查，王忠林：背水一战，没退路。
Wuhan will carry out a three-day pull net type screening, Wang Zhonglin: back water, no escape.
媒体追问：退休副厅长确诊后，还能这般任性？。
Press inquiries: retired deputy director of the diagnosis, can such wayward?
中国抗疫努力被诋毁，美国作家：厌倦了西方媒体抹黑中国。
China's anti-epidemic efforts are denigrated, American writer: Tired of Western media smear China.
岳阳医院一患者隐瞒病情致多名医务工作者被隔离，警方立案！。
A patient in Yueyang Hospital conceals his illness and many medical workers are quarantined. Police file a case.
蝗虫来袭，预警：4000亿只蝗虫已到达印度和巴基斯坦。
Locust invasion, warning: 400 billion locusts have arrived in India and Pakistan.
习近平：在中央政治局常委会会议研究应对疫情工作时的讲话。
Xi: Speech at the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo to study the response to the epidemic.
习近平主持召开中央深改委会议：完善重大疫情防控体制机制。
President Xi Jinping chaired a meeting of the Central Committee on Deep Reform: improving institutional mechanisms for major epidemic prevention and control.
北京市网信办约谈凤凰网负责人：违规严重，部分频道暂停更新。
Beijing Internet Office interview Phoenix Net responsible: serious violations, some channels suspended updates.
《梨泰院class》：高燃逆袭剧，爽点是什么。
Li Tai Yuan: High-intensity anti-attack drama, what is refreshing.
交通运输部：疫情防控期间全国收费公路免收车辆通行费。
Ministry of Transport: During the period of epidemic prevention and control toll road toll free.
全国医务人员确诊病例累计1716例，6人以身殉职。
A cumulative total of 1,716 cases were confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, 6 of whom died in the line of duty.
武汉病毒研究所：黄燕玲毕业后一直在其他省工作，未感染病毒。
Wuhan virus research institute: Huang Yanling has been working in other provinces since graduation, not infected with the virus.
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
中国抗疫努力被诋毁，美国作家：厌倦了西方媒体抹黑中国。
China's anti-epidemic efforts are denigrated, American writer: Tired of Western media smear China.
湖北省卫健委党组书记主任双双被免职，两职务由王贺胜兼任。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary group secretary of the two were dismissed, both posts by Wang He Sheng double-hatted.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
马上评丨诉诸情感的钟南山和诉诸专业的钟南山，合起来才完整。
Zhong Nan Shan, who immediately comments into emotion, and Zhong Nan Shan, the professional resort, are integrated.
武汉市中心医院主任蔡毅发文：悼念林军老板，我就这么送你了。
Wuhan City Central Hospital Director Cai Yi Fat Message: mourning Lin Jun boss, I gave you so.
岳阳医院一患者隐瞒病情致多名医务工作者被隔离，警方立案！。
A patient in Yueyang Hospital conceals his illness and many medical workers are quarantined. Police file a case.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
蝗虫来袭，预警：4000亿只蝗虫已到达印度和巴基斯坦。
Locust invasion, warning: 400 billion locusts have arrived in India and Pakistan.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是韩国成均馆大学研究员于婉莹,韩国影视如何走向世界,问吧!。
I am Yu Wanying, a researcher at Sungkyunkwan University in Korea.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是韩国成均馆大学研究员于婉莹,韩国影视如何走向世界,问吧!。
I am Yu Wanying, a researcher at Sungkyunkwan University in Korea.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
武汉、湖北、全国重症病例占比均明显下降。
Wuhan, Hubei and the national proportion of serious cases declined significantly.
全国首趟返程复工人员定制专列开行，近三百贵州员工返回杭州。
China's first return trip to the staff customized trip, nearly 300 Guizhou employees back to Hangzhou.
湖北强化疫情防控：城乡所有社区等实行24小时最严封闭管理。
Hubei intensified epidemic prevention and control: All urban and rural communities and other communities to implement 24-hour maximum closed management.
全国第一例、第二例由遗体解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理今日送检。
The first case and the second case of New Crown Pneumonia obtained by autopsy were sent for examination today.
三大运营商开放用户14天内访地查询，提高流动人员查验效率。
Three major operators open users to 14 days to visit the site to improve the efficiency of mobile personnel inspection.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
