我的「抗疫」日记：濒临死亡时，我给家人留了告别视频。
My "Anti-epidemic" diary: I left a farewell video to my family when I was dying.
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
疫情爆发最严重的那几天，我家的亲戚被隔离了。
Our relatives were quarantined during the worst days of the outbreak.
听到消息后家里人都吓得不轻。
Hearing the news, the family were horrified.
原来是亲戚小龙春节前去过武汉一晚，回来后就发烧、胸闷、呼吸困难，在老家农村，只能监管，不能诊治。
It is a relative Xiao Long before the Spring Festival in Wuhan overnight, back after fever, chest tightness, breathing difficulties, in the home countryside, can only be supervised, unable to diagnose and treat.
每天在家隔离，实时向当地村委会汇报情况，所有人都不能接触他，独自一人吃了碗饺子过了年。
Every day isolation at home, real-time reporting to the local village committee, all can not contact him, eating alone bowl of dumplings for the New Year.
除夕夜他胸闷加重，发烧突破临界值到37.7度时，小龙发过来消息说很害怕。
On New Year's Eve, his chest tightness aggravated, fever exceeded the threshold of 37.7 degrees, Xiao Long sent the message that he was very afraid.
我也很紧张，但却无能为力，一点忙都帮不上。
I'm nervous too, but there's nothing I can do to help.
病毒目前没有特效药这是公知的，小龙只能每天在家看大量的新闻，寻找尽可能的控制办法。
The virus does not have specific drugs This is well known, dragons can only read a large amount of news at home every day, looking for as much control as possible.
无意间看到群里分享了一个确诊女孩的日记。
I happened to see a diary of a confirmed girl shared in the group.
日记详细记录了她与病毒抗争四天的切身感受。
The diary details how she struggled with the virus for four days.
连续高烧，濒临死亡的状态下女孩成功活了下来。
The girl survived with a high fever and near-death condition.
女孩在日记里写到：我是武汉一所大学医学院的临床研究生，我想记录下我的抗疫过程，也许对医学有研究。
In her diary, the girl wrote, I am a clinical graduate student at Wuhan University Medical School. I want to record my course of fighting the disease.
女孩坚强又勇敢，给了小龙很大的信心，他开始调整心态，积极应对可能到来的一切。
The girl was strong and brave, gave the dragon a lot of confidence, he began to adjust his mind, actively deal with everything possible.
隔离六天后，小龙病情好转，他把女孩的日记发给了我，日记太过详细，怎么吸氧、怎么避免压迫肺脏、怎么控制身体变僵、怎么监视测脉搏，甚至濒死体验都写了。
After six days of isolation, Xiao Long got better. He gave me the girl's diary, which was too detailed about how to inhale oxygen, how to avoid compression of the lungs, how to control numbness, how to monitor pulse, even near-death experience.
一个重病患者怎么能记录得这么详细呢？看起来像在写小说。
How can a seriously ill patient record so much detail? It looks as if he is writing a novel.
我打电话到她市里的防疫指挥中心核实，又转接到当地的宣传部了解。
I called the cordon sanitaire center in her city to check it out and transfer it to the local propaganda department.
证实确有此人，目前正在积极养病不便打扰。
Confirmed that this person is actively recovering from illness inconvenience.
我把他们两个的真实体验都记录下来，想分享给更多读者，也给无数正在崩溃的患者以希望。
I wrote down their real experiences, wanted to share them with a wider audience, and gave hope to the millions of patients who were crumbling.
我想，希望在任何时候，都是一种支撑生命的安全力量。
Hope, I think, is at all times a security force that sustains life.
感染后的第二天我在鬼门关走了一圈@林林（化名）年龄：约24岁职业：医学院的临床研究生坐标：河南第一天：首个住进县医院隔离病房的病人1月22日，我感到有些发烧，一测量，体温计显示38度。
The day after the infection I walked around Ghost Gate @ Linlin (alias) Age: About 24 Occupation: Clinical Postgraduate Coordinates of Medical School Day 1: The First Patient Living in the Isolation Ward of a County Hospital On January 22, I felt a little feverish.
我立马打了120，因为自己刚从武汉回来，心里预感到可能被冠状病毒感染。
I immediately hit 120, because he had just returned from Wuhan, the heart of a premonition that it might be infected with coronavirus.
当时脑子里闪过很多念头，但很混乱，只能在家静静等救护车把我带走。
Many thoughts flashed through my mind, but I was so confused that I had to wait at home for an ambulance to take me away.
回忆之前的三四天，好像偶尔会有轻微的畏寒，睡觉时心跳明显，肌肉偶有酸痛的症状，那时候内心有一点点预感，跟很多朋友一样，一边在怀疑自己是不是中枪，一边抱着侥幸心理，希望不是自己。
Three or four days before the memories, there seems to be occasional mild chills, a palpable heartbeat, occasional sore muscles, and a little foreboding in the heart that, like many friends, suspects that they have been shot and are left to chance.
在我高烧38度后，那些跟我有类似症状的朋友也陆续确诊。
After I had a fever of 38 degrees, my friends, who had similar symptoms, began to diagnose it.
那一刻，我才意识到这个病毒，可能会是席卷全华人的一场瘟疫，已经到了不太可能控制的阶段。
At that moment, I realized that the virus, which could be a plague sweeping the entire Chinese population, had reached an unlikely stage of control.
住院当天，我就开始呼吁我全家人以及认识的朋友们在家隔离，不要出门，即使出门也要趁外面没人的时候出门，只有更多健康的人顺利躲过这次瘟疫，中国才有救。
On the day of hospitalization, I began to appeal to my family and friends to stay at home, not to go out, even when no one was out, only more healthy people to escape the plague, China will be saved.
很快，我被拉到了县里面的隔离病房，我是住进来的第一个，在家人、医院领导、全县领导、所有医护人员的帮助下，我在第二天进行了所有化验：胸片、CT、病原检测，最终确诊阳性。
Soon, I was taken to the isolation ward in the county. I was the first to come in, and with the help of my family, the hospital leadership, the county leadership, and all the medical staff, I did all the tests on the following day: chest X-rays, CT, pathogen tests, and finally confirmed positive.
当时内心没有害怕和恐惧，心想一切的难受都是慢慢到来的，我只要一天天变得更坚强，挺住就可以。
At that time there was no fear and fear, thinking that all the pain is slow to come, as long as I become stronger day by day, hold on to it.
之后就是不停的输液，因为没有针对此次疾病的特效药，更多的是对症治疗。
There was no stop infusion, because there was no specific drug for the disease, more symptomatic treatment.
不过大家一定要记住，对于免疫系统出现问题的药物治疗手段，几乎都是辅助作用，不要期待着药物治疗，会让自己立马康复起来，最强大的是我们自己的身体和信念。
Keep in mind, however, that almost all medications for problems with the immune system are supportive, and don't expect medication to help you recover immediately. The most powerful thing is our own bodies and beliefs.
所以在这期间配合医生是一方面，自己心态放松积极面对是一方面。
So in this period of cooperation with the doctor is on the one hand, their own mentality is relaxed positive face is one.
多喝热水，不停的喝，每天3L的量，并且自己主动去排尿，不要等着膀胱要炸了才想着去，这个疾病会降低膀胱的敏感度，即时排尿很重要。
Drink lots of hot water, drink 3L a day, and actively urinate on your own. Don't wait for the bladder to explode. This disease reduces bladder sensitivity and instant urination is important.
另外，要吃东西，不能吃凉的，最好少食多餐，牛奶想办法热一下，喝了凉的很容易吐，如果是碳水化合物之类也是少食多餐，以避免一下子吃太多后体温明显升高，吃太少可能会低血糖，非常虚弱。
In addition, to eat food, not cold, it is best to eat less food, milk to try to warm up, drink cold is easy to vomit, if it is carbohydrates and other food, to avoid eating too much after a significant increase in body temperature, too little may be low blood sugar, very weak.
总之，就是要慢慢的感受自己身上的疾病，一点点的想办法，用身边的食物，水去调整身体的不适。
In short, is to slowly feel their own disease, a little bit of thinking, with the food around, water to adjust to the discomfort.
第二天：高烧感受到濒临死亡的状态住院第二天的晚上，是我24岁本命年的最后一天，我在想挺过最后几个小时的水逆，接下来就是顺风顺水，走向人生巅峰了吧。
The next day: I was in hospital for the night of the second day of my 24-year-old life. I was trying to make it through the last few hours of my life.
12点之前，我就感觉自己呼吸有点无力，摸了自己的心跳，怎么就弱下来了呢？再摸了颈动脉，怎么就搏动的这么脆弱了呢？大半夜，一下子反应起来，我缺氧了。
Before 12 o'clock, I feel a little weak breathing, touched their heartbeat, how to weaken it? Touching the carotid artery, how to beat so fragile? Most of the middle of the night, a sudden reaction, I lack oxygen.
我开始拼命呼吸的同时，赶紧呼叫了医生，让他们尽快送来了氧气瓶。
As I began to breathe, I called the doctor and asked them to deliver the oxygen bottle as soon as possible.
对着氧气，我大口地呼吸，并且身体的胸廓努力的配合起伏，这时候无论再艰难，都不能睡着，睡着了可能就忘了自主呼吸！也最好不要躺下，躺下去肺脏自身的重量需要克服，所以我斜靠着，保持和腿100度左右，尽量让肺腑不被其他内脏压迫。
I was breathing heavily into oxygen, and my body's rib cage was working hard enough not to fall asleep and forget to breathe while asleep! It was also best not to lie down and lie down on my lungs and the weight of my body needed to be overcome, so I leaned back and held my legs about 100 degrees to keep my lungs free from other internal organs.
尽管呼吸困难只是一小段时间，但那是我在这几天里离死神最近的一次，我求救了医生随时准备抢救。
Although breathing difficulties are only for a short time, but that is the last time I have come to death in the last few days, I called the doctor ready to rescue.
他们半夜两三点穿着隔离衣在我的病房鼓励我，让我挺住，让我不要焦虑，可是我的手脚是冰的、麻木的，颜色是发白的，听力是非常弱的，说话都没有任何力气，我告诉医生，如果我没抢救过来器官衰竭，就尽早放弃，不要再浪费医疗资源。
They dressed in isolation at two or three in the middle of the night to encourage me to stand up and let me not worry, but my hands and feet were icy, numb, white, my hearing was very weak, and I told the doctor that if I didn't save organ failure, I would give up as soon as possible and stop wasting medical resources.
求生的欲望吧，我反正就是接着拼命的吸氧，不断的想办法活动四肢，想让它们热起来，但同时录了临终视频，我怕很多人没看到我最后的样子，也没能和我告别……又过了两三个小时后，我的手脚逐渐热了起来，整个人不再是濒死的状态，但依旧是发烧将近39度的状态。
The desire to live, I was then desperately to breathe oxygen, constantly trying to move the limbs to warm them up, but at the same time recorded the last video, I am afraid that many people did not see my last appearance, and I did not say goodbye...
我当然是庆幸自己又发烧了，起码我的免疫系统又开始战斗了，我吸着氧气，让自己平静。
Of course I was glad I had a fever again. At least my immune system started fighting again. I sucked oxygen and calmed myself down.
不敢入睡，虽然继续肌肉酸痛，但如果不酸痛，我睡过去忘了呼吸怎么办。
Dare not sleep, although continue to muscle pain, but if not sore, I sleep past forget to breathe how to do.
恍惚中挨到了第二天早上，我明显地感觉到自己渡过了一劫。
Trance lasted until the next morning, I obviously felt that I had survived the robbery.
脱离氧气，自主呼吸逐渐恢复。
Out of oxygen, spontaneous respiration gradually returns.
虽然体温依旧升高，但更有信心了，相信新的一天，只会是我抗战胜利的后半程。
Although the temperature is still rising, but more confident that the new day, will only be the second half of my victory in the war against Japan.
第三天：挣扎记录下真实感受，为病患提供参考治疗有序进行，今天吃了饭菜，是医院的饭菜，没有筷子怎么办？把牛奶的吸管当筷子吧，吃完没有呕吐，好现象。
Day 3: Struggle to record the true feelings, provide reference treatment for patients orderly, eat meals today, hospital meals, how to do without chopsticks? Milk straw as chopsticks bar, no vomiting after eating, good phenomenon.
整体呼吸平稳，下午的时候体温一度恢复到36.5，但可能这个跟输液输的抗炎药有关。
The overall breathing was steady, with the body temperature returning to 36.5 in the afternoon, but it may have something to do with an anti-inflammatory drug used for transfusion.
吃过饭后，体温又慢慢升高，不过已经没有非常高了，顶多38度，肌肉酸痛的情况轻了很多。
After dinner, the body temperature rises slowly, but it is not very high, at most 38 degrees, muscle pain much less.
晚上感觉自己体力尚好，趁机用了两个小时又写了会文字，我是武汉一所大学医学院的临床研究生，我想记录下来，也许对医学有研究。
At night, feeling strong enough, I took the opportunity to write a two-hour session, I was a clinical graduate student at Wuhan University School of Medicine, I would like to record, perhaps have a medical research.
但这个对我来说是复杂的工作，我担心自己脑袋用多了有点缺氧，开始尽量减少了和朋友们的联系，高烧情况下脑子是不够用的，注意力不能跳转来跳转去的，因为用脑需要氧。
But it was a complicated job for me, and I worried that my brain was starved of oxygen. I began to minimize contact with my friends.
忙完后十点多，很疲惫，又怕因为自己身体太虚弱，会感觉迟钝，想让医生上监护。
After work more than 10: 00, very tired, afraid of his body too weak, will feel dull, would like to let the doctor custody.
医生说尽量不要上，担心监护的声音我会更睡不着。
The doctor said try not to go to bed, worried about the sound of guardianship I will not sleep.
那好吧，谨遵医嘱，我迅速断网关灯睡觉。
Well, as the doctor ordered, I'll quickly switch off the lights and go to sleep.
没有失眠，没有心慌，没有呼吸急促，我一觉睡到了半夜两点多，腿抖突然惊醒，赶紧量了体温，很好，37度。
No sleeplessness, no panic, no shortness of breath, I slept until two in the middle of the night, my legs trembled and woke up suddenly.
自己头脑清醒，身体舒适。
My mind is clear and my body is comfortable.
感觉自己抗战进度条到达了99%。
I feel like I've reached 99% of my progress.
赶紧告诉家人我的状况，让他们安心，然后迅速接着睡。
Quickly tell your family about my condition, set them at ease, and quickly go back to sleep.
第四天：活过来，感谢身边所有的人早上的七点多，醒后体温平稳，37度。
Day 4: Live, thank everyone around you more than 7: 00 in the morning, wake up with a stable temperature, 37 degrees.
后来护士进来给我抽血，今天应该就是测量我疾病转归的时候了。
Then the nurse came in and took the blood out of me, and today is supposed to be the time to measure the outcome of my illness.
我告诉她，我好了。
I told her I was okay.
她说，我很强大，长得真好看。
I'm very strong, 'she says.' I'm beautiful.
此时的我，一周多没洗澡、没洗头、没洗脸，狼狈不堪的样子是刚经历完与疾病的一场厮杀.....在隔离间陪伴我的他们每一个人都很伟大，比起我自己，他们才是更为之拼尽全力的战士。
At this point I, more than a week did not bathe, did not wash, did not wash face, the appearance of discomfiture is just experienced with the disease fighting... in the isolation of each of them are great, compared to me, they are the most dedicated fighters.
希望在这场疾病中，为我操了无数心的家人、县领导、市专家和所有的医生护士们都能平安渡劫，中国的公共卫生事业需要你们……△ 林林朋友圈截图从武汉回来，我发烧、呼吸困难被隔离了@小龙（化名）年龄：33岁职业：科研机构研究员坐标：河北隔离前：中国人觉得武汉是疫区，武汉人觉得汉口是疫区我在武汉读的大学和研究生，去年是我在外工作后的第一年，春节我师弟热切的邀请我回武汉同师兄弟一聚。
I hope all my family members, county leaders, city experts and all the doctors and nurses will survive the disease. Chinese public health requires you to come back from Wuhan.
我18号到武汉和老师同学们聚会时，他们也只是轻描淡写的讲了一下这个新型冠状病毒肺炎的情况，讨论了一下他的源头华南海鲜市场。
When I went to Wuhan on the 18th to hold a party with my teachers and classmates, they just gave me a brief account of the new coronavirus pneumonia and discussed his source, the South China seafood market.
19号的武汉火车站和地铁上都基本没有几个带口罩的人。
The Wuhan railway station on No. 19 and the subway are almost devoid of people wearing masks.
因为当时武汉人根本就不重视，都在开心的置办年货，有调侃“中国人觉得武汉是疫区，武汉人觉得汉口是疫区，而汉口人觉得华南海鲜市场周围才是疫区”。
Wuhan people at that time did not attach importance to, are happy to buy New Year's Eve goods, have ridiculed that "the Chinese feel that Wuhan is an epidemic area, Wuhan people think Hankou is an epidemic area, and Hankou people feel that the south China seafood market is the area around the epidemic area.
△1月19日武汉火车站没带口罩的春运人群当时的武汉人大部分跟没事人一样，大家都认为这个病不会人传人。
On January 19, Wuhan railway station did not wear a mask of spring transportation crowd at that time, most of the Wuhan people like no one else, we all think that the disease will not be passed from person to person.
可我们群里19号就发了医生看病全身防护的照片。
But number 19 in our group sent out a picture of the doctor's full body protection.
直到钟院士去了武汉，发布可以人传人的消息，主席强调高度重视疫情，政府强力管控，官方正式发布消息后，老百姓们才重视起来。
Until Academician Zhong went to Wuhan, the release of human-to-human message, the president stressed the importance of the epidemic, strong government control, the official release of the official news, the people pay attention to.
1月20号也就是农历二十六，我算是回乡比较早的人，还没来得及走亲访友，只去看了同村的爷爷奶奶，就没再出门，就等着过大年了。
January 20, that is, the twenty-sixth lunar month, I returned home relatively early people, before the time to visit friends and relatives, only to see the village grandparents, did not go out, just waiting for the big year.
21号过后村里就开始排查武汉过来的人，或者途径武汉的人，要在村子里登记。
21 after the village began to search Wuhan people, or people passing through Wuhan, to register in the village.
为了大家好，要居家隔离观察14天，每天要汇报2次体温，上午一次，下午一次。
For your own good, stay in your home for 14 days and report your temperature 2 times a day, once in the morning and once in the afternoon.
隔离第四天：开始低烧，除夕夜独自一人吃饺子我23号的时候感觉不太舒服，24号也就是大年三十下午开始低烧。
Isolation Day 4: Begin low fever, New Year's Eve eating dumplings alone I feel uncomfortable on the 23rd, that is, the twenty-fourth of the New Year began low fever.
村里有个工作群，主要是村支书和社区医生引导工作，我加了医生的微信说“我低烧，37.2度”。
The village had a working group, mainly village branches and community doctors, and I added a doctor's letter saying "I have a low fever, 37.2 degrees."
当时人心惶惶，我有途径武汉史，他们都开始高度重视我的情况，但让我不要紧张，并给了我一个体温限值是37.4度，超过了就要送县医院。
At that time, I have access to Wuhan history, they began to attach great importance to my situation, but let me not nervous, and gave me a limit temperature of 37.4 degrees, more than to be sent to the county hospital.
这个时候我算是正式对外公布被隔离。
At this point I was officially declared quarantined.
体温计是自备的，村里送来了口罩和医用酒精，再次嘱咐我要隔离，家里人不要出门。
The thermometer was self-provided, the village brought a mask and medical alcohol, again told me to quarantine, the family do not go out.
我叔和我奶奶他们来我家，都被驱散了，我家的门是谁都不让进了。
My uncle and my grandma When they came to my house, they were all broken up, and no one was allowed to enter my house.
家里人也开始加强防护，除了戴口罩，不跟我直接接触外，开始喷医用酒精，所有的沟通都是微信交流，饭菜热水给我放到门外，我自己拿进来。
The family also began to strengthen the protection, except wearing masks, do not have direct contact with me, began to spray medical alcohol, all communication is a micro-letter exchange, food and hot water to put me out of the door, I brought in.
农村厕所都是坑式的，据说粪便也可以传染，所以厕所也是单独一间。
Rural latrines are pit-like, and excrement is said to be contagious, so the toilet is a separate room.
以往过年都是聚在一起，今年三十我就一个人吃的饺子，都没有心情去庆祝过年，春晚也没看，好多人都对歌舞生平感到愤慨，随着疫情的严峻，全国人民都在紧张、焦虑、恐惧。
I was in no mood to celebrate the New Year, nor did I watch the Spring Festival Gala. Many people were indignant about the life of the song and dance. With the severity of the epidemic, people all over the country were tense, anxious and fearful.
除夕当晚温度开始上升，最高到37.7左右，胸闷加重，呼吸有的时候有点堵，我开始害怕。
On New Year's Eve, the temperature began to rise, up to about 37.7, chest tightness increased, sometimes a bit blocked breathing, I began to fear.
隔离第五天：胸闷加重，决定去医院初一一早跟大家反映了情况后开始联系医院，医院的情况是目前床位不够，如果住院也要和疑似病例放一起观察，而且一旦确定为疑似，就不能回家了。
I decided to go to the hospital on the morning of the first day of the hospital to report the situation to everyone began to contact the hospital, the hospital situation is currently not enough beds, if hospitalized with suspected cases together with observation, and once identified as suspected, can not go home.
我陷入到了反复的犹豫情绪中：1、农村医疗条件比较差，只能做到监管，有效诊断和治疗可能要在市里或省城才可以。
I was mired in repeated indecision: 1. Rural medical conditions are relatively poor, can only be regulated, effective diagnosis and treatment may only be in the city or provincial capital.
2、我属于轻症，去医院可能造成交叉感染，但不去医院，家里缺医少药又怕会更加严重。
2, I belong to a light disease, go to the hospital may cause cross-infection, but do not go to the hospital, lack of medical care at home and fear that it will be more serious.
下午病情持续加重，胸闷加重，呼吸开始堵。
Afternoon the disease continued to worsen, chest tightness increased, breathing began to block.
4点多，我拨通了市疾控中心的电话，医生说就近原则去县城！县城医院也没有专业的防护车，最后是我哥决定送我去医院。
More than 4 o'clock, I dialed the city CDC telephone, the doctor said the principle of proximity to the county! County hospital also no professional car, finally my brother decided to send me to the hospital.
我戴了三层口罩坐在车后座，车玻璃全程都留着缝隙，去的时候我基本没有和我哥有交流。
I sat in the back seat of my car wearing a three-storey mask. There were cracks in the car's glass, and I didn't communicate with my brother when I went.
5点到的县医院，发热门诊5点已经关闭，只能走急诊，先是在医院外面等，等了大概有十几分钟，我哥跟医生协调好可以做检查了我才进去，急诊室里的医生是全套的防护服，从头到脚，和网络上看到的是一样的。
At the 5: 00 county hospital, the fever clinic was closed at 5: 00 and had to take emergency care, waiting outside the hospital for about a decade. My brother coordinated with the doctor for a check-up and I went in. The doctor in the emergency room was a full set of protective clothing, from head to toe, as seen on the Internet.
但是别的医生都没有穿。
But none of the other doctors wore them.
初一晚上排队的并不多，有几个发热的，也是低烧，从外地回来。
On the first night of the queue is not much, there are a few fever, is also low fever, from the field back.
我做了两项检查，血常规和CT，等结果的时间我一直在反复思考我到底是还是不是，也做好了回不来的准备，我在想我会去哪个病房，病房在哪里，会不会有疑似的跟我住在一起。
I had two tests, blood routine and CT, And I've been thinking about whether I'm still there or not, and I'm not ready to go back, I wonder which ward I'm going to, where the ward is, and if there's any suspicion of living with me.
时间感觉很漫长，我开始注意来来往往的人，好多人在医院没有戴口罩，后来陆陆续续戴上了，一个人在我旁边经过，没有戴口罩，隔着一定距离，我提醒他戴上口罩，但是他问我有没有口罩，心想可能不是不想带，是压根儿没有吧。
Time felt very long, I began to notice people coming and going, many people did not wear masks in the hospital, then gradually add on, a man next to me, not wearing masks, I reminded him to wear a mask at a distance, but he asked me if I did not have a mask, thought it might not be do not want to, it is not.
我看着这些大厅里的人，时不时的会过来一个人，我就赶紧躲开。
I watched the people in these halls, and from time to time I would come alone, and I ducked away.
我有点无奈和生气，大家在非常时期，医院这么危险的地方也都不太担心嘛？二十分钟结果出来了。
I am a little helpless and angry, everyone in the emergency, the hospital in such a dangerous place are not too worried? Twenty minutes out of the results.
并没有发现病毒！显示的是支气管炎，让我回家观察三天，看病情而定。
No virus found! Show me bronchitis, let me go home for three days, depending on the condition.
真实的说听见说没有这个病毒，心情虽然好了很多，但也持怀疑态度，因为县城没有核酸试剂盒，我一天就变成了支气管炎，多么吓人。
True to say that there is no virus, although the mood is much better, but also skeptical, because the county did not have nucleic acid test kits, I a day into bronchitis, how frightening.
在回来的路上我开始和我哥交流，也同时给家人和问候我的朋友们发检查结果，报平安。
On the way back, I began to communicate with my brother. At the same time, I sent the results to my family and to my friends.
和我接触过的人悬着的石头也都落了地。
The stones hanging from those I had been in contact with also fell to the ground.
隔离第六天：病情好转大年初二，病症开始减轻，不过还是间歇性发作，感觉病毒时不时的要攻击下我的免疫系统，累了它就歇会。
Isolation Day 6: On the second day of the new year, the disease began to ease, but still intermittent attacks, feel the virus from time to time to attack my immune system, tired it will rest.
但我知道发烧是身体免疫系统在起作用，当呼吸道有炎症的时候就会发热。
But I know that a fever is a function of the body's immune system, which heats up when there is inflammation in the respiratory tract.
面对这个病毒不能恐慌，心态平和，在家里待着，做好防护。
Face this virus cannot panic, mood is peaceful, stay at home, do well protection.
自从隔离发烧开始，我没事就关注新型冠状病毒的消息，网上有很多建议，比如患者在家中隔离时是怎么做到治愈。
Since quarantining the fever, I have followed the news of the new coronavirus. There are many suggestions on the Internet, such as how patients can be cured when isolated at home.
那些官方权威的信息给了我对疾病的预期以及自我隔离救治的方法，我按照上面的药对症给自己吃，我知道现在并没有特效药，主要靠自身免疫力。
The official information gave me an idea of the disease and the method of self-isolation, and I gave myself the medicine above to eat. I know that there is no specific medicine, mainly on its own immunity.
同时我看到微信群里有人发林林的抗疫故事，每个人都很钦佩她，自此我开始调整心态对抗这未知的病毒。
At the same time, I saw people in the micro-letter group Lin Lin's anti-epidemic story, everyone admires her, since then I began to adjust to the mentality of the unknown virus.
看一些积极的文章可以给自己找点心理支持。
Reading positive articles can help you find some psychological support.
虽然还在隔离，随着我体温逐渐正常，家里的氛围就没有那么紧张了。
Although still in isolation, as my temperature gradually normalized, the atmosphere at home became less tense.
我在武汉的老师和同学们也都没有出现异常。
My teachers and classmates in Wuhan are not unusual either.
包括我回乡路程中接触的人应该也不会有事，我很庆幸。
I'm glad that the people I made contact with on my way home will be fine, too.
现在每天都是坏消息，每天都会因为看到一篇纪实采访，胸口说不出的压抑和难受。
Now every day is bad news, every day will see a documentary interview, chest unspeakable repression and discomfort.
我们更想看到一些希望，大家都坚持住。
We'd like to see some hope. We all hang in there.
武汉回来的人，最关心的是自己有没有携带病毒，是否给家人传播病毒。
Wuhan back of the people, the most concerned is whether they do not carry the virus, whether to spread the virus to their families.
这一次，感受最深的就是小城市、农村的医疗水平落后，还有人们的不重视。
This time, feel the most is small cities, rural medical standards lag behind, and people do not pay attention to.
我们在打一场没有硝烟的战役，丘吉尔不是说“没有最终的成功，也没有致命的失败，最可贵的是继续前进的勇气。
We are fighting a battle without smoke, and Churchill did not say, "There is no ultimate success, no fatal defeat. The most valuable thing is the courage to move on."
”特别是生活在疫区的我们，越是在关键时刻，越是要独立思考。
"In particular, we live in epidemic areas, the more in the critical moment, the more independent thinking.
隔离期间自己反而思考会很多，比如当你面对不治之症的时候会变得豁达很多。
Instead, you think a lot during isolation, for example, when you're dealing with an incurable disease.
当你觉得能靠自己免疫力对抗病毒的时候，就会增加信心。
When you think you can rely on your immunity to anti-virus, will increase confidence.
身处劫难的时候，还能怎么办，唯独只能相信自己能挺过去，这个朴素的道理其实是生活的真理。
In times of disaster, what else to do, only to believe that they can survive, this simple truth is the truth of life.
为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
Chinese women to provide professional solutions to protect the safety of Chinese women to turn up to take a quilt to turn a quilt.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我的「抗疫」日记：濒临死亡时，我给家人留了告别视频。
My "Anti-epidemic" diary: I left a farewell video to my family when I was dying.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girls.
var msg_title = "我的「抗疫」日记：濒临死亡时，我给家人留了告别视频";。
var msg _ title = & quot; my "anti-epidemic" diary: When I was dying, I left my family a farewell video;;;
var msg_desc = "医生说，我很强大，长得真好看。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the doctor says I'm strong and looks great.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girl.
