口罩每天产800万只，厂商疯狂加班生产。
Mask produces 8 million per day, manufacturers frantically overtime production.
王伟凯。
Wang Weikai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲ 广州南站提着大包小波的乘客，其中大部分人佩戴上了口罩。
Guangzhou South Station carries bags of wavelet passengers, most of them wearing masks.
（南方周末记者 翁洹/图)全文共3883字，阅读大约需要8分钟中国是世界最大的口罩生产国，最大产能可以达到每天2000多万只。
It takes about 8 minutes for China to be the world's largest producer of masks, with a capacity of more than 20 million per day.
近期很多企业已经停止春节休假，加班加点组织生产。
Recently many enterprises have stopped Spring Festival holiday, working overtime to organize production.
目前共有30多家企业复产，产量达到一天800万只以上，产能恢复到平时的40%以上，保障市场供应有底气有信心。
At present, more than 30 enterprises have resumed production, producing more than 8 million units a day and restoring capacity to more than 40 per cent of normal capacity.
本文首发于南方周末未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 王伟凯 黄金萍 敬奕步 徐庭芳责任编辑 |张玥2020年1月22日晚上，佛山市一家连锁药店老板袁默发了一条视频朋友圈，并写上了一句话：“工厂通宵生产，我们排队拉货，只为一个健康的新年。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization South Weekend reporter Wang Weikai Golden Pie. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
”就在这一天，武汉市政府发了一个通告，要求市民在公共场合必须佩戴口罩。
On the same day, the Wuhan city government issued a notice requiring people to wear masks in public places.
此前医疗专家组曾表示，佩戴口罩可以有效防止疫情传播。
Medical experts have previously said wearing masks can be effective in preventing the spread of the disease.
新型冠状病毒疫情暴发以来，口罩成为很多人关注的话题。
Since the outbreak of the new coronavirus, many people have been concerned about masks.
次日，武汉市新冠肺炎指挥部发布信息，当前急需用于疫情防控的物资中，口罩需求量较大。
The next day, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Command issued information, the immediate need for disease prevention and control materials, the demand for masks.
同一天，华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院发布接受爱心捐赠的公告，急需护目镜、N95口罩、外科口罩、一次性医用口罩、医用帽、防护服等物资。
On the same day, the Tongji Medical College affiliated Concorde Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology issued a notice accepting the donation.
为了摸清口罩供应情况，南方周末记者分别采访了多家大小型口罩供应商、药房老板、电商平台等链条上的关键角色，他们都在春节临近时恢复了紧张的工作状态。
To find out the supply of face masks, Southern Weekend reporter interviewed a number of small and large mask suppliers, pharmacy owners, electric business platform and other key players in the chain.
但制作周期、人力、物料的紧张，加大了在短期内解决口罩供不应求问题的难度。
However, the production cycle, manpower, material constraints, increased the short-term solution to the problem of demand for masks more difficult.
14天京东卖出1.26亿只口罩在线健康咨询平台“平安好医生”向南方周末记者提供的数据显示，站内关键词搜索量最高的便是口罩类信息，同比增长25倍。
Data provided to Southern Weekend reporter by Ping An Good Doctor, an online health consultation platform selling 126 million masks over the past 14 days, showed that the biggest keyword search was for masks, a 25-fold increase over the previous year.
京东对外公布的信息则显示，1月19日至22日，京东累计售出1.26亿只口罩，仅1月22日一天，口罩销量环比上月日均增幅高达48倍。
From January 19 to 22, Kyung-tung sold 126 million face masks, and on January 22 alone, sales rose 48-fold from a month earlier, according to information released outside the capital.
南方周末记者从多个省份的药店了解到，口罩脱销已经是一个比较常见的事情，尤其是KN95、N95口罩，更是“一罩难求”。
Southern Weekend reporter learned from pharmacies in many provinces, masks sold out is a relatively common thing, especially KN95, N95 masks, is "a hard to find."
“无货”，这是3M、霍尼韦尔两大口罩供应商京东自营店上所显示的信息。
"No goods", this is 3M, Honeywell two big mask suppliers Jingdong self-employed shop display information.
而其他口罩供应商的信息则显示，他们大多只能保证在春节之后或30天以内发货。
Other mask suppliers reported that they can only guarantee delivery after the Spring Festival or within 30 days.
这种现象，在淘宝、苏宁等电商平台上均有出现。
This phenomenon, Taobao, Suning and other electrical business platforms have emerged.
淘宝、苏宁、拼多多给南方周末记者的信息显示，他们将口罩等医用物品纳入“百亿补贴”活动中，保障货源充足，不允许商家恶意涨价。
Taobao, Suning and Duanduo told Southern Weekend reporters that they included medical products such as masks in the "10 Billion Subsidy" campaign to ensure adequate supplies and not allow businesses to raise prices maliciously.
但由于需求太大，缺货的现象仍然存在。
However, owing to excessive demand, stock-outs persist.
线下药房也面临口罩紧缺的现象。
Off-line pharmacies also face a shortage of face masks.
以湖南某县为例，1月23日，县城中心的7家药房，5家的口罩已卖完。
In one county in Hunan province, for example, on January 23, five out of seven pharmacies in central Hunan province sold out of masks.
一家药房销售人员告诉南方周末记者，就在这两三天内，店里共卖出去四五千个口罩。
A pharmacy salesman told Southern Weekend that in just two or three days, the store had sold four or five thousand masks.
另一位销售人员则说，临近春节，厂商和物流已放假，不能确保下次进货时间。
In the run-up to the Spring Festival, manufacturers and logistics have already had holidays and can't guarantee the next purchase time, said another salesperson.
此前，湖北省曾向国家请求紧急支援，希望可以调拨医用口罩4000万个、防护服500万套、红外测温仪5000套。
Hubei province had appealed to the state for emergency aid, hoping to deploy 40 million medical masks, 5 million suits of protective clothing and 5,000 sets of infrared thermometers.
除此之外，武汉市一些医院在公开募捐信息中也提到，急需口罩。
In addition, Wuhan some hospitals in the public fund-raising information also mentioned the urgent need for masks.
需要指出的是，目前尚不清楚湖北省需要的医用口罩是指一次性口罩，还是KN95或者N95口罩。
It is not clear whether the medical masks needed in Hubei province refer to disposable masks or KN95 or N95 masks.
KN95和N95都是指对应标准下过滤效率达到95%的意思，KN95是中国标准GB2626-2006中规定的级别之一，N95则是美国标准42。
Both KN95 and N95 mean filter efficiency of 95% according to the corresponding standards, with KN95 being one of the grades stipulated in the Chinese standard GB 2626-2006 and N95 being the US standard.
CFR 84中规定的级别之一。
One of the levels specified in CFR 84.
中康防护用品科技（广州）有限公司总经理宗光辉有超过10年的从业经历，他向南方周末记者解释，一次性口罩的生产工序相对简单，4000万个一次性口罩所需时间不会太长。
Zong Guangliang, general manager of Zhongkang Protective Products Technology (Guangzhou) Co. Ltd., who has more than 10 years of working experience, explained to Southern Weekend that the manufacturing process of disposable masks is relatively simple and that 40 million disposable masks will not take long.
但是KN95或N95口罩的生产工序则要复杂很多，并且对技术有一定的要求。
But the production process of KN95 or N95 masks is much more complicated and requires a certain amount of technology.
以他们公司为例，这家专门生产KN95口罩的公司，生产4000万个KN95的口罩，可能需要一年的时间。
His company, for example, which manufactures KN95 masks, makes 40 million KN95 masks, which can take a year.
宗光辉向南方周末记者坦言，由于近几年环境得到有效治理，口罩行业并不景气，全行业处于“去产能”阶段，很多厂家并没有太多口罩储备，现在能卖的也多是少量存货。
Zong told Southern Weekend reporter that due to the effective management of the environment in recent years, the mask industry is not depressed, the industry is in the "de-production" stage, many manufacturers do not have much of a stockpile, and are now able to sell small quantities.
2涨价和处罚供不应求的市场环境，使一些商家抬高了口罩价格。
The price hikes and penalties imposed on the oversupplied market have led some businesses to raise the price of masks.
南方周末记者在上述湖南某县走访时就发现，1月21日，一家药房对一次性口罩的出售价格还是3元1包，1包10个；两天后再去，已经变成了20元一包。
During a visit to a county in Hunan province, Southern Weekend reporters found that on January 21, a pharmacy was selling disposable masks for $3 a bag, 10 in a bag, and two days later, it had turned into 20 yuan a pack.
最近两天，多省市下发通知，严查口罩厂家、零售商恶意涨价，并且已有多家药店因涨价受到查处。
In the past two days, many provinces and cities issued circulars, strict investigation mask manufacturers, retailers malicious price increases, and many pharmacies have been charged for price increases.
根据中新网消息，呼和浩特市一家药店在1月21日购进30套“医用口罩”，当日销售15套，单价为19.8元。
A pharmacy in Hohhot bought 30 "medical masks" on January 21 and sold 15 on the same day at a unit price of 19.8 yuan, according to Xinhua.
但在1月22日开始涨价，每套涨到32元、38元、48元，剩余15套也已全部售完。
But on January 22nd, the price rose to 32 yuan, 38 yuan and 48 yuan each, and the remaining 15 units were sold out.
目前，呼和浩特市市场监管局已对该药店进行立案处罚。
At present, the city of Hohhot Market Supervisory Authority has filed a case against the pharmacy.
袁默药店的KN95口罩也有一定涨价，他向南方周末记者解释，这主要是因为进价太高。
Yuan Mo pharmacy KN95 mask prices also have a certain price, he explained to Southern Weekend reporter, this is mainly because the purchase price is too high.
以前拿货1块多一个，现在拿货要8块钱一个，并且必须要排队进货，还要先打货款，就只能将一只KN95口罩卖到十几块。
There used to be one extra dollar for the goods. Now it's 8 yuan a piece and you have to queue up and pay for it first.
“厂家涨了很多，他们也是在连夜加班赶货。
The manufacturers have gone up a lot and they are working overtime all night.
”袁默向南方周末记者感叹。
Yuan Meir lamented to Southern Weekend reporter.
17年前SARS的时候，袁默也在做医药生意。
Yuan was in the pharmaceutical business 17 years ago, when he was in the SARS business.
他记得，当年一包板蓝根被炒到了50元，相比那时的疯狂与无序，这一次疫情，还没有出现太混乱的市场现象。
He remembers that a package of Banlangen was fired to 50 yuan, compared to then crazy and disorder, this time, there has not been a chaotic market phenomenon.
作为口罩生产商，宗光辉向南方周末记者坦言，应该允许口罩价格适当上涨，因为在春节期间加班加点生产，对厂商来说，人工、物料成本都要比平时高很多，厂商不能亏本生产。
Shining, a mask maker, told Southern Weekend that prices of masks should be allowed to rise appropriately because working overtime during the Spring Festival is much more costly for manufacturers than usual, and manufacturers cannot lose money.
当然，他反对厂商、商家为追求暴利，而恶意囤货、涨价。
Of course, he opposes manufacturers, businesses in pursuit of windfall profits, and malicious hoarding, price increases.
3M和霍尼韦尔两大来自美国的口罩生产商在给南方周末的回应中均提到，会保证价格稳定。
Both 3M and Honeywell, two U. S. mask makers responding to Southern Weekend, cited price stability.
宗光辉向南方周末记者分析，过去几年，为了活下去，国内小的生产商走的多是薄利多销的模式，价格本来就很低。
Zong Shining told Southern Weekend reporter analysis, in the past few years, in order to survive, domestic small producers have taken a pattern of thin profit more sales, the price is already very low.
而这两大生产商，由于技术和品牌的优势，价格本来就相对较高，有很大的利润空间，即便是在不涨价的情况下，销量足够大，也会有不错的利润。
These two major producers, because of the advantages of technology and brand, are already relatively high prices, there is a large margin of profit, even in the absence of price increases, sales will be large enough, will be a good profit.
3国外公司主导市场据宗光辉介绍，在KN95和N95口罩市场，3M和霍尼韦尔两家来自美国的企业占据了中国大部分的市场份额，国内的口罩生产商无法与之匹敌。
Foreign companies dominate the market According to Shining Zong, in the KN95 and N95 mask markets, 3M and Honeywell companies from the United States account for most of China's market share, and domestic mask makers are unable to match them.
“在之前，人们对KN95和N95的口罩没有太多概念，非典期间，3M进入中国市场，并逐渐被市场所接受。
"Before that, people didn't have much idea about KN95 and N95 masks. During SARS, 3M entered the Chinese market and gradually became accepted by the market.
”宗光辉向南方周末记者介绍。
"Zong Shining told Southern Weekend reporter.
他有一个明显的感受，就是这几年KN95和N95口罩的市场行情并不好，与2015年前后的市场热潮形成了鲜明对比。
He had an obvious feeling that the market for KN95 and N95 masks hadn't been good over the years, in sharp contrast to the market boom around 2015.
那个时候，PM2.5在国内盛行，人们对环境十分关注，使得此类口罩逐渐从医用、劳保市场走向了零售市场，掀起了一波口罩热。
At that time, PM2.5 was prevalent in China, people are very concerned about the environment, so that such masks gradually from the medical, labor market to the retail market, launched a wave of mask fever.
不过，随着近几年对环境的有效治理，此类口罩需求开始减少，国内的口罩公司也不再生产、囤货，他身边的一些同行甚至选择了转行。
However, with the effective management of the environment in recent years, demand for such masks has begun to dwindle, and domestic mask companies are no longer producing and stocking up, with some of his peers opting for a career change.
他认为这是值得反思的，并不只有在疫情暴发时才应该戴口罩，平时空气不好、自己患有感冒时，也应该戴上口罩，这是对自己和他人负责的一种文明行为。
He believes that this is a cause for reflection, not only in the event of an outbreak should wear masks, not only when the air is bad, should also wear a mask when he has a cold, this is a responsible behavior to himself and others.
更令人忧心的是，他看到很多工地上的工人，在从事污染较重的工作时，也都不戴口罩。
More worryingly, he saw workers on many construction sites who were not wearing masks when they were engaged in more polluting jobs.
疫情暴发后，3M和霍尼韦尔在天猫和京东上的口罩也很快出现脱销现象。
In the wake of the outbreak, 3M and Honeywell soon ran out of masks on the cats and Jingdong.
3M中国企业事业部向南方周末记者回应，他们正全力组织口罩生产，在春节期间仍将保持生产，并承诺价格保持稳定。
3M China Enterprise responded to Southern Weekend that it was fully organizing mask production and would maintain production during the Spring Festival, promising stable prices.
1月19日下午，霍尼韦尔的北京经销商动用两辆21米长的货车运送口罩到武汉。
On the afternoon of January 19, Honeywell's Beijing dealerships used two 21-meter trucks to transport masks to Wuhan.
这家公司一直以B2B业务为主，口罩业务隶属于安全与生产力解决方案集团，该业务只是集团份额中较小的一块，它并不生产医用口罩，而是作为劳保用品的一部分。
The company, which has been dominated by the B2B business, which is part of the Safety and Productivity Solutions Group, is the smaller of the group's shares and does not produce medical masks, but as part of labor protection.
此前因为雾霾，霍尼韦尔在工业环境下可用的口罩受到个人消费者青睐，逐渐进入中国民用市场。
Honeywell's face masks, used in industrial environments because of the haze, have been favored by individual consumers and are gradually entering the Chinese civilian market.
霍尼韦尔公关部有关负责人告诉南方周末记者，武汉肺炎疫情事发突然，确实超乎预期，公司正在尽最大力量满足消费者需求，即使生产成本有所上升，但公司已经明确不会将它转嫁给个人消费者。
The Wuhan Pneumonia outbreak was unexpected and unexpected, and the company is doing its best to meet consumer demand, even if production costs rise, but the company has made it clear that it will not pass it on to individual consumers, he told Southern Weekend.
4缺乏准备就在这几天，广东酌希新零售科技有限公司生产的21000件高端口罩，很快就要卖完。
Lack of preparation Just in the past few days, 21,000 high-end masks produced by Guangdong Xin Xin Retail Technology Co. Ltd., will soon be sold out.
10天前，因为定价高于市场价，这些口罩还没有太多人关注。
Ten days ago, the masks weren't getting much attention because they were priced higher than the market price.
广东酌希是一家集新材料研发、生产与应用于一体的环保科技公司，其生产的“酌希口罩”因为采用了“天玾膜”这样的特殊材料，使用时间可以长达15天，零售价达到80元一个。
Guangdong Yaxi is an environmental technology company that integrates research, development, production and application of new materials. Its "skin mask" can be used for up to 15 days with a retail price of $80 per mask.
而市面上的KN95口罩，四个小时就需更换一次。
The KN95 masks on the market need to be replaced every four hours.
该公司总经理刘昌华向南方周末记者表示，这一次疫情的来袭让他猝不及防。
Liu Changhua, general manager of the company, told Southern Weekend that the attack caught him off guard.
几天前，当他看到一些疫情报道时，曾想过是否应该多生产一些口罩。
A few days ago, when he saw reports of some outbreaks, he wondered if he should make more masks.
但由于当时信息较少，他判断疫情可能不会太严重，就没有做准备。
But with less information available at the time, he concluded that the outbreak might not have been too serious to prepare.
在口罩行业摸打滚爬十多年的宗光辉也没有做足准备，疫情暴发之前，他的工人已经放假回家了。
His 10-year-old living in the mask business was not prepared, and before the outbreak, his workers had gone home on holiday.
现在，他正在召集工人们回来加班生产。
Now, he is calling the workers back to work overtime.
工人少、材料少，是摆在口罩生产商面前的难题。
The shortage of workers and materials is a problem for mask manufacturers.
宗光辉说，很多工人已经放假回家，受疫情影响，地方远的工人并不愿意返回工厂上班。
Shining Zong said many workers have come home from holidays, affected by the epidemic, distant workers do not want to return to the factory.
口罩的生产材料一般都来自全国各地的厂商，春节之后这些材料能否到位，也会是一个关键问题。
Mask production materials are generally from manufacturers around the country, Spring Festival after these materials can be in place, will also be a key issue.
1月23日，工信部部长苗圩在天津调研了口罩、消毒除菌用品企业生产情况。
On 23 January, Miao Wei Minister of the Ministry of Industry and Communications investigated the production of masks and sterilization products in Tianjin.
他表示，中国是世界最大的口罩生产国，最大产能可以达到每天2000多万只。
China is the world's largest producer of masks, with a maximum capacity of more than 20 million a day, he said.
近期很多企业已经停止春节休假，加班加点组织生产。
Recently many enterprises have stopped Spring Festival holiday, working overtime to organize production.
目前共有30多家企业复产，产量达到一天800万只以上，产能恢复到平时的40%以上，保障市场供应有底气有信心。
At present, more than 30 enterprises have resumed production, producing more than 8 million units a day and restoring capacity to more than 40 per cent of normal capacity.
但值得注意的是，无论是一次性口罩，还是KN95、N95口罩，均需要一天一换，或一天多次更换，对于中国庞大的人口基数来说，面对这次来势汹汹的疫情，每天2000多万只口罩的产能是否能够满足市场需求，仍是一个未知数。
But it is worth noting that whether disposable masks, KN95 or N95 face masks need to be replaced once a day, or several times a day, it remains to be seen whether the capacity of more than 20 million masks a day will meet the market demand in the face of this devastating epidemic.
同一天，南方周末记者在湖南某市药房走访时，一家药房只剩下少量的一次性口罩。
On the same day, Southern Weekend reporter visited a pharmacy in Hunan province, only a small number of disposable masks remained in a pharmacy.
老板将成包的口罩拆开来卖，一个口罩卖到3块钱。
The boss unwrapped a bag of masks and sold them for $3 a mask.
当时，一位老者正在为这个药房书写对联。
At that time, an old man was writing couplets for the pharmacy.
当他把上下两联写好之后，抬头问了老板一句：“横批写什么？”老板脱口而出：“人定胜天！”1月24日上午，小米集团方面对南方周末记者说，其首批捐赠价值超过30万元的医疗防护物资（包括N95口罩、医疗口罩等）昨夜已陆续从各地出发寄往武汉。
After he had written them down, he raised his head and asked the boss, "What do you mean by approval?" The boss blurted out on the morning of January 24 that the first batch of medical protection materials worth over 300,000 yuan (including N95 masks, medical masks, etc.) had been sent from all over the country to Wuhan last night.
同天，京东宣布向武汉市捐赠100万只医用口罩及6万件医疗物资，首批已出库。
On the same day, Jingdong announced that it had donated 1 million medical masks and 60,000 medical supplies to Wuhan city, the first batch of which had been released.
在看到武汉协和医院的物资捐赠公告后，一位在日本读书、兼作代购的学生发布了“众筹护目镜”活动，在朋友圈筹集善款上万元，在日本网站购入200多个护目镜寄往武汉。
After seeing the announcement of the donation of materials from Wuhan Concorde Hospital, a student studying in Japan and working as a buying agent launched a "crowdsource goggles" campaign to raise tens of thousands of yuan from friends and buy more than 200 goggles for Wuhan on a Japanese website.
在发布捐助公告的24小时后，该公告贴出的4组电话号码仍始终处于忙音状态。
The four sets of phone numbers posted in the announcement remained busy 24 hours after the announcement.
（应受访者要求，袁默为化名）其他人都在看：。
(Yuan is a pseudonym at the request of the interviewee) Everyone else is watching.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩每天产800万只，厂商疯狂加班生产。
Mask produces 8 million per day, manufacturers frantically overtime production.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "口罩每天产800万只，厂商疯狂加班生产";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
