武汉“难忘今宵”：一个年味杂陈的除夕夜。
Wuhan "unforgettable tonight": a New Year's Eve with mixed taste.
李在磊 敬奕步。
Li is in good shape.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲大年三十晚上，武汉市第四医院古田院区门诊，医务人员在救助病患。
On New Year's Eve, Wuhan Fourth Hospital Gutian out-patient hospital, medical staff in the rescue patients.
（李福荣/图）全文共4261字，阅读大约需要10分钟电视里《难忘今宵》奏乐响起的那一刻，走进一位女性顾客，买了一大捧百合、玫瑰。
The moment the music of "Unforgettable Tonight" played on TV for about 10 minutes, a female customer walked into the room and bought a bunch of lilies and roses.
家里没摆鲜花，总是感觉缺点什么，“就算再难，也要把生活过好。
There are no flowers at home, always feel the shortcomings of what, "no matter how difficult, but also to live a good life.
”这位女顾客说。
'said the customer.
打开手机视频，与妈妈同步切菜、架油锅、颠勺，一通忙活，做好了10道菜。
Turn on the mobile phone video, and mother synchronous cutting cabbage, rack oil pan, toss, a busy work, done 10 dishes.
吃饭也同步，镜头连线，十几名家庭成员，隔着屏幕举杯贺岁。
Dinner is also synchronized, the lens line, a dozen family members, across the screen to celebrate the New Year.
爸爸发热后，始终不能被确诊。
Dad can't be diagnosed when he gets feverish.
除夕夜，爸爸在房间里自我隔离，母子两个人随便做了点饭菜，往年必备的多宝鱼没有了，腊鱼、腊鸭也没有了。
On New Year's Eve, my father isolated himself in the room. Mother and son cooked some food casually.
零点钟声敲响之前，解放军3支医疗队共450人抵达武汉，广东等省份的医疗队也开赴武汉，一时成为社交平台刷屏的消息，这些医疗支援队将迅速增强武汉抗击疫情的力量。
Before the stroke of midnight, 450 medical teams from the People's Liberation Army arrived in Wuhan, and medical teams from Guangdong and other provinces flew to Wuhan to screen social platforms.
本文首发于南方周末未经授权 不得转载文| 南方周末记者 李在磊 敬奕步南方周末实习生 宋思静 闫力元 龚柔善责任编辑 |何海宁1大年三十那一天这是和苗第一次没在家里过年——那是一种夹杂着惊恐、孤单与勇气的体验。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint South Weekend reporter Li Jie Yidong Yan-li, an intern at Gong Jianshen Responsibility Editor and Senior Vice President Gong Jianshen. On the thirtieth day of the new year, it was the first time Miao had not spent the New Year at home - an experience mixed with fear, loneliness and courage.
这名华中科技大学大三学生原本预订了2020年1月23日晚间回云南老家的航班，23日凌晨武汉“封城”公告后，老友的连环Call将其叫醒：“你走不了了。
"The junior at Huazhong University of Science and Technology had booked a flight back to his hometown in Yunnan on the night of January 23, 2020.
”武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部通告称，自23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营。
"Since 1000 hours on the 23rd, the city has temporarily suspended the operation of public transport, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport, the command for the prevention and control of pneumonia in the new coronavirus infection in Wuhan.
无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭，恢复时间另行通告。
No special reasons, citizens do not leave Wuhan, the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed, recovery time is announced separately.
和苗退掉机票，抢到一张8:40的高铁票，稍事冷静：说不定身上携带有病毒，为了避免传染给家人，她决定留守江城。
And Miao returned the ticket, to grab a 8: 40 high-speed rail ticket, a little calm: Perhaps with the virus, to avoid infecting their families, she decided to stay in Jiangcheng.
放下行李，出门囤了一堆N95口罩、医用酒精、洗手液、84消毒液、抗病毒口服液，除了吃饭，基本不出宿舍。
Put down your luggage and go out the door hoard a pile of N95 masks, medical alcohol, hand sanitizer, 84 disinfectant, antiviral oral liquid, except for meals, basic not out of the dormitory.
宿管阿姨定期测试体温，学院统一发放零食，食堂免费提供中药汤剂，同学们赞助各大视频网站的会员，不过和苗无心煲剧，应接不暇的新闻排山倒海，23日晚上，她不停刷着手机，直至深夜。
Boarding aunt regular temperature tests, the college distributed snacks, the cafeteria free Chinese medicine soup, students sponsored major video site members, but Miao and Miao no intention of boiling, overwhelming the news, 23 night, she kept brushing her cell phone until late at night.
1月24日是大年三十，武汉淅淅沥沥下起冷雨，和苗耐不住寂寞，出门透气。
January 24 is the New Year's Day, Wuhan under the cold rain, and seedlings can not bear loneliness, out of the air.
路遇校园生活区的餐馆小哥、水果店阿姨、便利店大叔，她情不自禁道了声“新年快乐”。
She couldn't help saying "Happy New Year" to her in-laws, aunts at fruit shops and convenience stores.
自忖平时不是一个性情活泼的人，暗暗惊讶刚刚那一瞬间的主动，出乎意料，对方都热切回应。
Thought usually is not a lively person, secretly surprised just that moment's initiative, unexpected, the other side is eager to respond.
他们也都是滞留武汉的人啊——刹那间，和苗感受到一种莫名的力量。
They are also stranded in Wuhan ah - for a moment, and Miao feel a nameless force.
千万级人口的庞然大物，城市功能骤然暂停。
A gigantic multimillion-level population, the city's function suddenly stopped.
“封城”次日，进出市区的哨卡趋近严厉，医疗物资短缺的问题持续蔓延，口罩、防护服、试剂盒成为热搜词汇。
The next day, checkpoints into and out of the city drew closer, shortages of medical supplies continued to spread, and masks, protective clothing and kits became hot words.
城区内，商场、电影院里，“春节大酬宾”“大年初一上映”的大幅招贴上，被蒙上一张歇业声明。
City, shopping malls, cinemas, "Spring Festival big reward" "New Year's Eve opening" posters, was covered by a closure statement.
地铁、公交车一夜停摆，紧随其后，网约车暂停服务，出租车单双号限行。
Metro, bus overnight stop, followed by the suspension of the service, taxis single-digit restrictions.
迫不得已，共享单车、共享电动车关键时刻发挥起作用。
As a last resort, sharing bicycles and sharing electric vehicles play a key role.
不得不出门办事的市民，如果运气不赖，仍能拦到正常打表计费的出租车。
Citizens who have to go out on business are still able to stop taxis that charge their regular meter if their luck is not bad.
乘着除夕这天是“双号”，长江北边一位出租车司机，七八点钟开始拉客，一路畅通，几乎没跑空单。
On New Year's Eve it was Double Number, a taxi driver north of the Yangtze River who began soliciting at seven or eight o'clock.
虽然行人寥寥无几，但是可供选择的出行方式也屈指可数，生意反倒好于平时。
Although there are few pedestrians, there are few alternatives, and business is better than usual.
“明天‘单号’就不能干了。
"" I can't have a single number tomorrow.
”他的计时单位是“车份”，能跑一天就能给公司交一天的租金，不过凡事随缘，“大过年的，不让跑也正好歇歇”。
His unit of time is the "car," so he can pay the company a day's rent in a single day, but it's a piece of cake.
汉口区的一名外卖小哥，本已提前回到出租屋，与老婆、孩子包饺子，不过却接到一个非常时期的特殊任务：派送一小箱防护设备。
Hankou District, a small takeaway, had returned to the rental house early, with his wife, children to make dumplings, but received a special mission: sent a small box of protective equipment.
24日上午十点钟左右，他穿上制服，骑着“小电驴”一路呼啸，在下午两点半，把包裹着口罩、消毒水、洗手液的“单子”圆满送达。
Around 10 a.m. on the 24th, he put on his uniform, riding the "Little Donkey" all the way roar, at 2: 30 pm, wrapped mask, disinfectant, hand sanitizer "list" satisfactorily delivered.
接收“单子”的年轻人小向，刚刚在宾馆里和武汉江夏区的妈妈通完视频电话——他恰好回武汉老家出差。
"Receive the" list "of young people, just in the hotel and Wuhan Jiangxia District mother completed a video-phone call - he happened to return to Wuhan home on business.
妈妈试探性询问，能不能回家看一眼。
Mother made a tentative inquiry whether she could go home and have a look.
“当然不能。
"Certainly not.
”小向说，他担心这几天接触的人多，回家不安全。
"Xiao said he feared it was unsafe to return home because of the high number of people he had been in contact with.
下午准备了年夜饭，妈妈忍不住说，做好菜之后，要给儿子送过来。
Afternoon prepared dinner, my mother could not help but say, cooked dishes, to send his son.
下午约四点钟，被征调到新型冠状病毒肺炎定点诊疗医院的护士小韩开始上班。
At about 4 pm, Xiao Han, a nurse who was called to the new coronavirus pneumonia clinic, began work.
她在电话中告诉南方周末记者，4个小时一换班，小韩换班出来，给爱人打电话：“今年不能团圆了。
She told Southern Weekend reporter by telephone, 4 hours a shift, Xiaohan came out to call her lover: "This year can not reunite.
”当晚，“坚守”“我是医生”“我是护士”这些纸牌拜年照片在社交网络刷屏的时候，医护人员依然奋战在一线。
"That night," I'm a doctor "and" I'm a nurse. "As pictures of cards calling for New Year painted on the social network, paramedics were still on the frontlines.
马上就要跨年了，“不能确诊”的病患仍旧密密麻麻聚集在医院走廊里。
As the New Year approaches, the "undiagnosed" patients are still clustered together in the hospital corridors.
晚上十一点多，武汉市第四医院古田院区的门诊大楼灯火通明，隔街相望一团漆黑，只有花艺店门口一排菊花，泛着暖暖的光。
More than 11 p.m., Wuhan Fourth Hospital Gutian courtyard district of the outpatient building lights, across the street, only a row of chrysanthemums, warm light.
武汉有着大年初一“烧清香”的习俗，街坊邻居、亲朋好友拜年时，会给去年有老人去世的友邻，送上一束冬菊以示缅怀。
Wuhan has a "burning fragrance" customs, neighbors, relatives and friends when the New Year, will give a bouquet of chrysanthemum to last year's elderly deceased friends, a bouquet of chrysanthemum.
就在“封城”前一天，花艺店老板高小兵进了两大车鲜花，没成想“什么倒霉事全赶上了”，他仍不甘心，坚持开业到第二天再打烊，“万一还是有人惦记着下边的长辈，买不到怎么办？”电视里《难忘今宵》奏乐响起的那一刻，走进一位女性顾客，买了一大捧百合、玫瑰。
The day before the closing of the city, Gao Xiaobing, the florist, entered two wagons of flowers, and, not wishing to catch up, insisted on opening until the next day.
家里没摆鲜花，总是感觉缺点什么，“就算再难，也要把生活过好。
There are no flowers at home, always feel the shortcomings of what, "no matter how difficult, but also to live a good life.
”这位女顾客说。
'said the customer.
2“走也走不了，回也回不去”裹着围巾、口罩，杵在行李箱前，3个人面面相觑。
"Can not walk, back can not go back" wrapped in a scarf, face mask, pestle in front of the suitcase, three people look at each other.
2020年1月23日，武汉高铁站东广场停车场，刘思平夫妇面脸愁容。
On January 23, 2020, Mr. and Mrs. Liu Siping looked sad in the parking lot of Wuhan High-speed Railway Station East Square.
“走也走不了，回也回不去。
"You can't walk, you can't go back.
”五十多岁的刘思平在南京做生意，买了中转武汉返回河南南阳的高铁。
Mr. Liu, who is in his fifties, does business in Nanjing and buys a high-speed rail transit through Wuhan back to Nanyang, Henan.
1月22日晚上抵达武汉，住宿一晚，打算第二天搭乘下午两点钟的列车返乡。
I arrived in Wuhan on the evening of January 22 and spent the night planning to catch the two o'clock train back home the next day.
早晨听说“封城”的消息后，他们赶忙往车站挤，上午十点钟，被清理“出场”。
When they heard the news of the city's closure this morning, they hurried to the station and were cleared out at ten in the morning.
“10点前的票早就买不到了，难道真要在武汉过年？”他们3人站在车站，手足无措。
"The ticket before 10 o'clock already cannot buy, the difficulty really wants to spend the New Year in Wuhan?" They three people stand in the station, helpless.
“封城”首日的高铁站门口。
"Sealed" the first day of the high-speed railway station.
（李福荣/图）旅馆通知刘思平，续住的话房费会涨。
The hotel informed Liu that the room rate would go up if he stayed.
举目无亲，老家亲戚打来电话，建议他们想办法赶去周边小城，家里人再开车来接。
Unaccompanied, relatives called home, advised them to find ways to catch up with the surrounding town, the family car to pick up.
不过，出城的车费也在涨。
But the cost of traveling out of the city is also rising.
“回不了家”的不止刘思平一家三口。
Liu's family is not the only one who can't go home.
计划转车回长沙的另外一家三口，早上到站后，原本打算坐十点多的高铁班次。
Plans to transfer back to Changsha the other three, in the morning after the station, had intended to take the 10 o'clock high-speed train.
也有一些误点的乘客，被通知不能改签，只能退票。
There are also a number of delayed passengers, was informed that can not be changed, can only refund tickets.
站在路边，他们举棋不定，究竟是回武汉市区，还是再想他法离开。
Standing on the roadside, they hesitated whether to return to Wuhan city district, or to think of another way to leave.
郭爽则觉得她留在武汉过年是“命中注定”。
Guo Shuang felt that her stay in Wuhan for the New Year was "doomed."
大学毕业后，男朋友到杭州工作，她是独生子女，舍不得离父母太远，坚持回到离家近的省城武汉，进了一家事业单位，“回来没多久，就遇到这样的大事”。
After graduating from college, her boyfriend went to Hangzhou to work. As an only child, she was too far away from her parents and insisted on going back to Wuhan, the provincial capital near her home, to enter an institution.
年底，在双方老人催促下，结婚事宜提上日程。
Toward the end of the year, at the urging of the elderly on both sides, marriage matters on the agenda.
郭爽与男朋友商量，初四到初六，安排双方父母见面，正式商讨一下婚礼。
Guo Shuang and boyfriend to discuss, from the fourth to the sixth day of the two parents to meet, formally discuss the wedding.
女婿第一次来，郭爽妈妈年货备置前所未有丰盛，早早晒好一捆板鸭，订好车票、酒店。
When her son-in-law came for the first time, Guo Shuang's mother prepared the new year goods as never before, bask in a bundle of ducks, booking tickets, hotels.
结果，疫情扑面而来，“做什么都不行了，板鸭也消化不掉了”。
As a result, the epidemic came, "to do nothing, ducks can not digest it."
郭爽爸爸觉悟高，主动打电话说，先别回去了。
Guo Shuang father consciousness high, take the initiative to call said, do not go back.
郭爽心想，怎么会有这种父母啊，别人都盼着儿女回去。
Guo Shuang thought, how can there be such a parent, others are looking forward to their children back.
爸爸耐心教导，你是党员，这个时候要响应国家政策，“没问题倒还好，要有问题的话，回黄石就是一个病原体”。
Dad patiently taught you to be a Party member, this time to respond to national policy, "No problem, but if there is a problem, Yellowstone is a pathogen."
原本欢欢喜喜“见家长”的一个春节，变成了一个人留守武汉。
Originally happy "meet the parents" of a Spring Festival, became a person left behind in Wuhan.
刚开始也不觉得孤单，“封城”那天，小区楼下超市开始抢货，她只抢到一箱泡面。
At first she didn't feel lonely. On the day of the "closure," the supermarket began to rob her of a box of noodles.
又去菜市场瞅了瞅，发现菜市场关门了。
Another look at the Halles market, found the Halles closed.
最后只在生鲜超市捡了几块山药，勉强买了点肉，将就着过个年吧。
Finally only in the fresh supermarket picked up a few pieces of yam medicine, reluctantly bought some meat, will live for a year.
“我有一个锅，还买了牛肉，抢到两条鱼，就打算自己烤个肉，给爸妈看看，也算是过年了。
"I have a pot, but also bought beef, caught two fish, and I plan to roast a meat for my parents, is also a New Year.
”郭爽说。
"said Guo Shuang.
如果郭爽是“坐困愁城”，那么许杰则是“自投罗网”。
If Guo Shuang is "Sitting in Sorrow," then Xu Jie is "throwing himself into a net."
他的爱人是上文的护士小韩，两人异地。
His wife is above the nurse Xiaohan, two people from different places.
很早便隐隐觉察到疫情来势非同小可，在深圳做软件开发的他，闪现过春节不回武汉的念头。
Very early discerned that the outbreak of the epidemic is not small, in Shenzhen to do software development, flash the idea that the Spring Festival will not return to Wuhan.
这一念头很快消散，“我不能不管自己的老婆孩子。
The thought soon dissipated. "I can't leave my wife and children behind.
”许杰在电话里对南方周末记者说，他请假提前回来，打算在武汉老家待几天，然后把母子俩接到深圳过年，没想到，“封城”来得这么突然。
Xu told Southern Weekend reporter on the phone that he wanted to take leave early to stay in his hometown of Wuhan for a few days and then send his mother and son to Shenzhen for the New Year.
当时，许杰打算带着儿子、岳母回郊区乡下祖宅“躲一躲”。
At that time, Xu Jie was planning to take his son and mother-in-law back to the countryside to "hide."
临行前，小韩仍要在医院加班，岳母担忧其安危，拒绝丢下女儿一个人。
Before her departure, Han still had to work overtime in the hospital, his mother-in-law worried about her safety and refused to leave her daughter alone.
万般无奈，许杰只能带着儿子先行一步。
In desperation, Xu Jie can only take a step ahead of his son.
不料，前脚许杰离开，后脚小韩就被征调到发热门诊，吃住全在医院。
Unexpectedly, the front foot Xu Jie left, the hind legs of Xiaohan was called to the fever clinic, food and accommodation in the hospital.
一家几口分隔三地。
A family divides three places.
“当时就有人问我说，小韩不去行不行，那是她的职业，我尊重她的想法。
"I was asked if it was okay for Xiao Han not to go, that was her profession, and I respected her.
”幸好两岁半的儿子很乖，不哭也不闹。
Fortunately, the two-and-a-half-year-old son was as good as a lamb.
许杰照看着孩子，每天给岳母、老婆通视频，彼此感受到各自的生活状态。
Xu Jie looked after the children, every day to his mother-in-law, his wife through the video, each feeling the state of their lives.
3视频连线的年夜饭按照往年的惯例，刘泽才通常先去爱人何芳老家湖北黄石，喝上几天大酒，然后驱车回河南老家，与父母、兄弟一起过节。
Liu Ze usually goes to his wife, Hubei Huangshi, his hometown. He drinks a few days of liquor before driving back to his hometown of Henan for the holidays with his parents and brothers.
今年，两口子与一对儿女只能留在武汉守岁，何芳第一次单独张罗一桌年夜饭。
This year, the couple and a couple of children can only stay in Wuhan, Ho Fang alone for the first time a table dinner.
远程指导下，在“封城”前，何芳就购置了装满一整个冰箱的食材，打开手机视频，与妈妈同步切菜、架油锅、颠勺，一通忙活，做好了10道菜。
Directed from a distance, Ho Fang bought ingredients for a whole fridge, opened a video on his mobile phone, and worked with her mother to cut vegetables, rack a frying pan, toss a spoon and cook 10 dishes.
吃饭也同步，镜头连线，十几名家庭成员，隔着屏幕举杯贺岁。
Dinner is also synchronized, the lens line, a dozen family members, across the screen to celebrate the New Year.
“这种感觉也挺好。
"It feels good, too.
”唯一遗憾是，年夜饭高潮环节的派压岁钱活动，只得以微信红包的形式取代，这让刘泽才精心准备的精美红包无从施展，有些怅然若失。
"The only regret is that the festive dinner of the high-end of the campaign, had to be replaced by micro-letter red envelopes, which Liu Ze carefully prepared exquisite red envelopes can not display, some sense of loss.
热闹完，一家四口人说了悄悄话，许了新年愿望，安静的过年氛围，竟然别有一种风味。
After the bustle, a family of four people said quietly, made a wish for the New Year, quiet atmosphere of the New Year, unexpectedly have a different flavor.
何芳全职主妇，在武汉照看两个孩子，刘泽才在北京创业，个把月回家一次，他们十分珍视难得的团聚时刻。
He Fang full-time housewife, in Wuhan to care for two children, Liu Ze just started a business in Beijing, one month home, they cherish the rare reunion time.
尽管小家庭团聚了，但病毒阴影还是高悬于顶，让人精神紧绷。
Despite the reunification of the small family, but the shadow of the virus or high hanging on the top, so that people tense up.
刘泽才热衷公益，每天开车往外跑，“总是想着（为社会）做点什么。
"Liu Ze is a pro bono, driving his car out every day," always thinking about something.
”何芳嘴上没说什么，心里忧心忡忡。
He Fang said nothing, his heart filled with anxiety.
大年三十晚上，武汉市第四医院古田院区门诊，排队就诊的病患依旧很多。
On New Year's Eve, Wuhan Fourth Hospital Gutian Hospital outpatient clinic, queuing patients are still many.
（李福荣/图）与刘泽才相比，患者家属杨宇虹一家三口的除夕夜并不踏实。
Compared with Liu Ze-cai, the New Year's Eve of the three family members of the patient's family is not solid.
爸爸发热后，始终不能被确诊。
Dad can't be diagnosed when he gets feverish.
除夕夜，爸爸在房间里自我隔离，母子两个人随便做了点饭菜。
On New Year's Eve, my father isolated himself in the room, and mother and son cooked a meal at random.
饭桌上只有两个人，无心下咽，往年必备的多宝鱼没有了，腊鱼、腊鸭也没有了。
Only two people at the table, inadvertently swallow, the years of the necessary fish do not have, salty fish, no duck.
杨宇虹决定一个人打打游戏，打发掉春节假期。
Yang Yu Hong decided to play a game, beat off the Spring Festival.
早在一个月前，武汉市民张霞的妈妈就出现咳嗽、发烧等症状，一直在几个医院之间辗转，要求做检测均未果。
As early as a month ago, Wuhan Min Zhang Xia's mother cough, fever and other symptoms, has been tossing and turning between several hospitals, the request for a test has not been successful.
“（我们）非常地无奈，也没有任何的办法和措施，只能无尽地等待。
"(We) are very helpless, there is no way and measure, can only wait endlessly.
”张霞说。
"said Zhang Xia.
就在大年二十九，全家人商量，不再去折腾，众人把母亲接回家，营养品、补品，好好调养。
In the twenty-ninth year, the family discussed, no longer toss, the mother was taken home, nutrition, tonic, good nursing.
大年三十那天，妈妈喝了一大碗鸡汤，又吃了两枚炖鸡蛋。
On New Year's Day, my mother drank a bowl of chicken soup and ate two stewed eggs.
张霞觉得回到自己家中，妈妈的情绪逐渐平复下来，“在家休养的话，可以更好地照料”。
Zhang Xia felt back home, mother's mood gradually calm down, "at home rest, can better care."
尽管回到家里有所好转，全家人早已疲惫不堪。
The whole family was tired even though they were getting better at home.
除了备好母亲的营养品，大家没有包饺子，也没有开电视。
Except for the mother's nutrition, no dumplings were made and no television was turned on.
“2020，对于我们武汉这一块儿的人来说，已经感觉不到年味了”。
"2020, for us in Wuhan, this group of people, has not felt the flavor of age."
也正是在这个除夕夜，零点钟声敲响之前，解放军3支医疗队共450人抵达武汉，广东等省份的医疗队也开赴武汉，一时成为社交平台刷屏的消息。
It was also on New Year's Eve, before the stroke of midnight, that 450 medical teams from the PLA arrived in Wuhan and medical teams from Guangdong and other provinces flew to Wuhan to become screens for the time being.
这些医疗支援队将迅速增强武汉抗击疫情的力量。
These medical support teams will rapidly enhance Wuhan's ability to combat the epidemic.
在广州白云机场，前来送行的广东省卫健委主任段宇飞说：“我要说的话有很多，千言万语汇聚成一句话：大家千万要保重，平安归来，这是我对大家最终的要求。
"I have a lot to say," said Duan Yufei, director of the Guangdong Provincial Health Committee who came to see him off at Baiyun Airport in Guangzhou.
”（刘思平、郭爽、许杰、刘泽才、何芳、张霞为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题文章。
(Liu Speing, Guo Shuang, Xu Jie, Liu Ze-cai, He Fang, Zhang Xia as an alias) poke the following picture and continue to read the article.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“难忘今宵”：一个年味杂陈的除夕夜。
Wuhan "unforgettable tonight": a New Year's Eve with mixed taste.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉“难忘今宵”：一个年味杂陈的除夕夜";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
