探访方舱医院：风雪中的患者、医护与志愿者。
Visit the Fong Kok Hospital: Snowy Patients, Health Care and Volunteers.
张明萌 徐梅 杨楠。
Meng Xumei Nan Zhang.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
“我在窗台旁看了很长一会雪，特别想家，我们也在问什么时候结束。
"I watched the snow for a long time next to the window sill. I was so homesick that we asked when it was over.
”“病友们觉得床上有电热毯，冷的话躲在被窝里就行了。
"" The sick fellows felt an electric blanket on the bed and hid under the covers if it was cold.
医护人员没什么地方可以躲，所以除了个别患者有畏寒的情况，就让医护人员优先用（取暖设备）。
There is no room for health care workers to hide, so give priority to medical staff (heating equipment), except in the case of chills in individual patients.
”“一个护士组长来月经了，她可能垫着尿不湿，全部打湿了，肯定是难受的，但再怎么的，作为一个组长，再崩溃也必须挺起来。
"" A nurse leader comes to menstruation, she may not piss wet, all wet, must be uncomfortable, but then again, as a team leader, must stand up.
”本文首发于南方人物周刊文|本刊记者 张明萌 徐梅 杨楠    实习记者 曹彦 宫健子    梁翰文 刘睿睿 何沛芸编辑|周建平 rwzkjpz@163.com全文约5872字，细读大约需要14分钟武汉国际会展中心方舱医院一病区一号房，受访者杨雪（红衣）与山西省医疗队和病友合影图 / 受访者提供两天前武汉的降温和雨雪天气，一度为武汉方舱医院带来挑战。
This article started at Ricky Cheung Mingxu Yang Nan, a reporter with the Southern Personality Weekly. Liang Jianping Rwzkjpz @ 163.com has about 5872 words. A detailed reading of Room 1, Fang Cao Hospital, Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, will take about 14 minutes.
2020年2月14日，新一轮冷空气南下，湖北省气温骤降。
February 14, 2020, a new round of cold air southward, Hubei Province temperature plummeted.
当晚武汉狂风暴雨。
Wuhan storm that night.
15日中午，武汉市气象台发布暴雪黄色预警信号：预计15日中午到晚上，武汉市将有六毫米左右的降雪；同时发布道路结冰黄色预警信号：预计15日下午到16日上午，全市大部分地区将有可能出现对交通有影响的道路结冰。
The Yellow Warning Signal of Blizzard was issued by Wuhan Meteorological Station on the 15th. It is expected that between noon and evening of the 15th, there will be about six millimetres of snow in Wuhan city.
据新华社15日消息，武汉多部门启动应急预案降低雨雪天气对抗疫的不利影响。
According to Xinhua News Agency on the 15th, Wuhan multi-sectoral emergency plan to reduce rain and snow weather to combat the adverse impact of the epidemic.
武汉交警重点巡查医疗机构、方舱医院及集中隔离点周边道路状况，确保医疗救援通道畅通。
Wuhan traffic police key patrol medical institutions, Fang cabin hospitals and concentrated isolation points around the road conditions to ensure that medical relief corridors are open.
武汉首批方舱医院是在2月3日投入使用的。
Wuhan's first cabin hospital was opened on February 3.
截至2月15日，武汉市已开放九个方舱医院，有6960多张床位，在院患者5606名。
As of February 15, Wuhan city had opened nine square-cabin hospitals with more than 6,960 beds and 5,606 hospital patients.
为阻断大范围空气流动引发交叉感染，武汉方舱医院内一直停用中央空调。
In order to block the large-scale air flow caused by cross-infection, Wuhan cabin hospital has been discontinued central air conditioning.
本刊记者采访了多位方舱医院的医护人员、患者与为方舱提供物资支援的志愿者，以及一线抗疫工作者的家属，了解极端天气下方舱医院的情况。
A number of cabin hospital staff, patients and volunteers providing material support to the cabin, as well as the families of frontline anti-epidemic workers, were interviewed about the situation of the cabin hospital in extreme weather.
以下为他们的口述。
Their oral testimony follows.
Play患者实拍：武汉下雪方舱医院如何取暖视频/梨视频武展方舱患者陆俊奕： 十几天没有症状，核酸复测阳性率大概是50%我在江汉方舱，也叫武展方舱。
Wuhan snow cabin hospital how to warm video / pear video show cabin patient Lu Junyi: 10 days without symptoms, the positive rate of nucleic acid re-testing is about 50% I am in the Jiang Han Square, also known as the Wu Showcase.
1月21日开始发热，因为试剂很紧张，一直到2月2日才做上核酸测试，3日拿到结果，6日凌晨住进方舱，算是这里的第一批患者。
Fever began on 21 January because the reagent was very nervous, until February 2 to do a nucleic acid test, 3 days after the results, 6 early in the morning into the cabin, is the first patients here.
进方舱前我已经退烧，也不咳嗽，持续到现在。
I had a fever and did not cough before entering the cabin, and it continues to this day.
医生让我再去做核酸复测，我复测是阳性。
The doctor asked me to do the nucleic acid reexamination again. I was positive.
做一次采样，有两个核酸指标，我一个是阴性，一个是阳性。
One sample, there are two nucleic acid indicators, I am negative, one is positive.
目前认为有一个阳性就100%是阳性，阴性的话可能有假阴性，所以我可以判断为阳性，还要等一周左右再复测。
Now that I think a positive is 100% positive, negative may be false negative, so I can judge positive, and wait a week or so before retesting.
现在因为体内已明确是阳性，还有病毒残留，最少还要花几天时间，让体内的抗体免疫力把它清理干净。
Now that the body is definitely positive and there are viral remnants, it will take at least a few days for the body's antibody immunity to clear it up.
最少要连续两次“双阴”、两次测试间隔24小时以上，又因为要避免假阴性的问题，还要结合后期复测，包括复测CT及血象，综合各个情况都没问题才能出院，为了以防万一，出院患者要在家中自我隔离14天。
At least two consecutive "double yin" intervals of more than 24 hours, and because of the need to avoid false negative problems, but also in combination with later retests, including CT and blood imaging, can be discharged from the hospital without problems. In order to be on the safe side, patients are isolated at home for 14 days.
医生在教排队做CT的患者们做CT时候的姿势图 / 陆俊奕提供有一大批患者跟我一样十几二十天没有症状，复测阳性率大概是50%。
The doctor is teaching CT-lined patients how to pose for CT. / Lu Junyi provides a large number of patients who are asymptomatic like me for a dozen or so days.
也就是说像我们这样症状已经好转的人，哪怕过了十几二十天，体内还是多少有残余的病毒。
That is to say, people like us who have improved, even after a dozen or twenty days, still have some residual virus in their bodies.
为了对社会、自己和家人负责，最好还是各项指标都正常了，按严格的流程出院。
In order to be responsible to the community, themselves and their families, it would be best if the indicators were kept on track and discharged according to a rigorous process.
我们6日凌晨来的时候特别冷，这里为了保证通风，大门一般开着。
We came in the early hours of the 6th with the door open for ventilation.
当时海南的护士负责我们，他们也没有任何取暖措施，瑟瑟发抖，还没有靠椅，站了一晚上。
The nurses in Hainan were in charge of us. They didn't have any heating. They shivered and stood without chairs for the whole night.
后来我们反映了，大门虽然还是要开，但加装了六台柜机，开取暖模式，好像已经连着开了好几天。
Later we reflected that, although the door is still to open, but installed six cabinet machines, heating mode, it seems that has been running for several days.
14日晚开始降温，大门那儿的卷帘门放下来了，那是最普通的铝合金卷帘门。
On the evening of the 14th, when the temperature began to drop, the curling door at the gate, the most common aluminum curtain door, came down.
风确实太大，温度降得太猛。
The wind is really too strong and the temperature is falling too hard.
卷帘门放下后，15日又配备了一些风机和小太阳，数量有限，病友们觉得床上有电热毯，冷的话躲在被窝里就行了。
After the curtain door was lowered, a limited number of fans and small sun were installed on the 15th. The patients felt that there was an electric blanket on the bed and that they could hide under the covers if they were cold.
医护人员没什么地方可以躲，他们来自五湖四海，有海南的、有内蒙的，内蒙那边习惯了冬天有暖气，海南完全都没经历过这种天气。
There was no place for the paramedics to hide. They came from all over the country, some from Hainan, some from Inner Mongolia, and some from Inner Mongolia.
所以除了个别患者有畏寒的情况，就让医护人员优先用（取暖设备）。
So, apart from cases where individual patients are afraid of cold, give priority to medical staff (heating equipment).
受访者李女士说，工作人员没有取暖器，病友们就把自己的给了他们。
Respondents Ms. Lee said the staff did not have a heater, and the patients gave their own to them.
今天他们在防护服外面加了外套。
Today, they put on coats outside their protective clothing.
李女士说，她看到的病友大多乐观 图 / 受访者提供空调开到最大了，但因为空间太大，作用有限。
Ms. Lee said most of the patients she saw were optimistic. / The interviewee provided the air conditioner to the maximum extent, but because there was too much space, it had a limited effect.
装空调时，我们在床位附近活动都觉得没什么温度，有的患者怕冷，就躲在被窝里，或者在空调这边转。
When air-conditioned, we move around the bed feeling no temperature, some patients afraid of the cold, hiding in bed, or in the air conditioning side.
有的人一直活动，散步、打太极拳。
Some people have been active, walking, Taijiquan.
武展方舱这边公共面积蛮小，不能像其他方舱大范围活动，病友们就找一些开阔地或在床边做一做（简单的运动）。
The public area on this side of the cabin is quite small and cannot move as widely as other cabins, so the sick people look for some open space or do it by the bed (simple exercise).
在医护人员的带动下，大家会每天不定时地跳广播操图 / 受访者提供我们没有停电，武展方舱是一个固定建筑，各项设置还不错。
Under the leadership of medical staff, people will jump to the radio every day to do exercises. / Respondents provide us with no power outage.
15日有一个病房有一条线路，可能什么电器功率大了，插座烧了，还好线路没烧，只是短暂停了一下电。
On the 15th, there was a line in one of the wards. It was possible that some electrical power was high and the socket was burning.
之前没有停过电，只不过不能用大功率电器。
I haven't stopped before, but I can't use high-powered appliances.
有人本来准备自带一个烧水壶，巡查的民警劝止了。
Someone was going to bring his own kettle, but the patrolman stopped him.
我穿了一件棉袄，带了一件很长的羽绒服，可以当被子盖的，目前没有用上。
I wore a padded jacket and a long down jacket, which could be used as a quilt. It was not used at present.
之前有人收拾得太匆忙，洗漱用品、毛巾没带，这边都及时发了。
Someone had packed up too hurriedly before, toiletries, towels did not bring, this side of the timely delivery.
药物在第一天下午就及时配发了，还统计了有其他慢性病要长期服药的患者，该发的都有发，供应都还好。
The medication was dispensed in time for the first afternoon, and patients with other chronic illnesses who needed to take long-term medication were given a good supply.
2020年2月12日，来到武汉体育中心方舱医院的第一天，患者明莉领到了洗漱用品、军大衣、保温杯等物品图 / 受访者提供原来没有洗浴间洗澡，16日晚从浙江运来一批锅炉。
February 12, 2020, came to Wuhan Sports Center, the first day of the hospital, the patient received toiletries, military coats, thermos cup and other items map / respondents did not bathe in the original bathroom, 16 night from Zhejiang a batch of boilers.
有电开水机，如果只是喝水的话基本不用排队。
There is an electric water machine, if only drink water basic do not need queuing.
晚上高峰打开水排队要排很久，有人可能要做一些洗漱什么的，其他时候倒还好。
There is a long line of water at peak night, someone may have to do some washing or something, but it's OK at other times.
因为电开水机本来也就是供饮用的，如果要打一大盆——甚至有人拿桶接，那肯定是刚烧好，你一打完他可能又要再烧一波。
Because the water heater was originally intended for drinking, if you were to hit a large basin - or even someone was picking it up, it would have just been burned, and he might burn again as soon as you were done.
我没凑过热闹（排队），在这边没有打水洗头、拿水擦身子，每天早上抹下脸刷下牙，就当自己坐月子了。
I did not join the bustle (queuing), here did not wash their hair, take water to wipe the body, every morning wipe the face brush lower teeth, as if they were sitting.
武展方舱指挥部从浙江杭州采购4台电热锅炉图 / 陆俊奕提供中区有一个公共厕所，男厕这边有三个坑位，一开始有好几天一直不够用，排很长的队。
Wu Showcase Command buys 4 electric heating boilers from Hangzhou, Zhejiang / Lu Junyi to provide a public toilet in Central District with three pits on this side of the men's toilet, which has been inadequate for several days at first and long queues.
后来运送来一批移动厕所，现在问题基本解决了。
Later, a group of mobile toilets arrived, and now the problem has been basically solved.
武展方舱移动厕所外面的环卫人员 图 / 陆俊奕提供我们没有因为天气受影响想回家，只不过想回家（的心情）总是有的。
Sanitation staff outside the mobile toilet in the VW cabin / Lu Junyi provided that we did not want to go home because of the weather, just want to go home.
有的人像我就可能心态比较好，按流程来，该怎么样就怎么样。
Some people like me may be in a better state of mind, according to the process, how to do.
有的人可能特别急。
Some people may be particularly urgent.
这几天也会有人问为什么自己不能做核酸复测而着急，找工作人员吵，但还是少数人。
These days some people will ask why they can not do nucleic acid reexamination and worry, find staff quarrel, but a few people.
我也在做方舱的志愿者，我们有一个志愿者群，目前群里有112人。
I'm also working as a volunteer in the cabin. We have a group of 112 volunteers.
主要是配合护士发放一些物资还有饭菜。
Mainly in cooperation with the nurses to distribute some supplies and meals.
再一个是协助民警维护下这边的秩序。
The other is to help the police maintain order on this side.
有时候有人吵架，就像居委会的工作人员一样去调解，能劝的劝。
Sometimes people quarrel, like the staff of the neighborhood committee to mediate, can advise.
早上六七点、中午12点左右、晚上6点左右，都可以及时吃饭，拿到手上都是温热的，饭菜是越来越好。
At six or seven in the morning, around twelve o'clock in the afternoon, around six o'clock in the evening, you can eat in time.
16日中午吃的红烧肉、豇豆炒肉、干笋丝炒肉，还有青菜。
16 noon to eat red meat, cowpea fried meat, dried sand goby fillet, and vegetables.
早餐基本上就是面点，超市常见的速冻奶黄包、小馒头之类的为主。
Breakfast is basically noodle point, supermarket common frozen milk yellow bag, small steamed bread and so on.
从入院后几天开始到现在，每天早上也会配牛奶、酸奶。
From a few days after admission to the present, every morning will be accompanied by milk, yogurt.
水果一般是下午或晚上发。
Fruits are usually handed out in the afternoon or evening.
患者明莉的午餐有四道菜，荤素搭配，还有牛奶酸奶水果图 / 受访者提供不同病房床位不同，面积小一点的大概19 张床，多的话二十五六张床。
Patient Millie had a four-course lunch with meat and milk yoghurt fruit. / The interviewee offered different beds in different wards, about 19 beds smaller and 25 more beds.
床中间没有隔离板，保持一米左右的距离。
There is no partition board in the middle of the bed. Keep a distance of about one meter.
一般两个病房算一个病区，不同病区之间有一个围墙，大概一米四五高。
Two wards are usually a sick area with a wall between different areas, about one meter and five feet high.
医护人员是两点一线，如果是工作时间要休息，就坐在自己负责的病房门口，会有一个小办公桌、一个靠椅，他们要靠在椅子上休息。
Health care workers are on the line at two o'clock. If they want to rest during working hours, they will be sitting at the door of their ward.
但是最近还了解到，护士们休息的时候必须低着头，保持下垂或者平着，因为后仰颈子部位会有缝隙露出来，增加感染的几率。
But it has recently become clear that nurses must rest with their heads down, hanging or flat, because cracks in the back of their neck can show up, increasing the risk of infection.
有很多护士因为长时间低头，颈椎已经开始有点不舒服了。
There are many nurses because of the long bow, cervical spine has begun to feel a bit uncomfortable.
有的护士因为本来就容易有颈椎病等职业病，经常会发病，特别难受。
Some nurses because already easy to have cervical spondylosis and other occupational diseases, will often develop, especially uncomfortable.
武展方舱内，医护人员必须垂着头休息，脚边是取暖器图 / 陆俊奕提供武展方舱患者杨雪： 情人节给每张床发巧克力我是第一批进方舱的。
Medical staff must rest with their heads down and warm up at their feet. Lu Junyi / Lu Junyi provides pod sufferer Yang Xue: I was the first to enter the cabin on Valentine's Day.
刚来时每张床位上都有电热毯。
When I first came, there was an electric blanket on each bed.
变天时工作人员就把空调打开。
The staff turned on the air conditioner when the weather changed.
但其实空间太高，空调作用不明显。
But actually the space is too high, the air conditioning effect is not obvious.
15日运了一批小太阳取暖器，我们窝被子里，都给医护人员用了。
On the 15th, a batch of small solar heaters were brought in, and we gave them to the paramedics.
这边的生活，饮食这一块非常好，每天一日三餐有奶，早餐有鸡蛋、馒头、稀饭。
This side of life, eating and drinking this piece is very good, a day three meals a day with milk, breakfast eggs, steamed bread, porridge.
三餐荤素搭配，四块四个菜，两荤两素，也有水果。
Three meat dishes with four dishes, two meat and two vegetables, also have fruit.
医护人员总体来说蛮细心，但是流动性太大。
Health care workers are generally careful, but they are too mobile.
因为从各个地方来，有山西的、海南的、贵州的，一个星期一换。
Because from all over the place, there are Shanxi, Hainan, Guizhou, a Monday change.
16日我还跟护士聊，说为什么你们换得这么频繁。
On the 16th I talked to the nurse about why you changed so often.
他们说因为每个区工作量不一样，比如16日可能到我们这里工作量比较大，17日就换一个工作量比较小的地方。
They said because each district workload is different, such as 16 may come to our work here is relatively large, 17 days for a relatively small workload.
我们属于轻症患者，我是轻症当中的轻症，进来前的症状是拉肚子、浑身乏力。
We belong to the light disease patient, I am the light disease in the light disease, come in before the symptom is loose bowels, all tired.
进来的第二天医生就没让我吃西药了，就吃他们方舱里特制的中药，因为我的各个症状都比较好，也没有拉肚子了。
The next day the doctor did not let me take Western medicine, they eat their cabin special Chinese medicine, because my symptoms are better, there is no diarrhea.
但是我一呆就是12天，其间没有做任何检查，核酸也好、血样也好、CT也好。
But I stayed for 12 days without any tests, nucleic acids, blood samples, or CT.
我就不知道到底是好了还是没好。
I don't know if it's good or bad.
现在没有准确的答复，一些患者就很焦虑。
Without an accurate answer, some patients are anxious.
2月14日情人节，这边医护人员晚上给每张床发巧克力，加上一日三餐这些饮食生活上的细节，还是让我们觉得蛮感动的。
On February 14, Valentine's Day, this side of the medical staff to each bed chocolate, plus three meals a day on these details of dietary life, or we feel quite moved.
武汉国际会展中心方舱医院，2月14日情人节夜晚，医护送来巧克力 图 / 受访者杨雪提供武展方舱护士刘月（化名）： 水瓶灌热水，鞋里塞纸尿裤，穿上羽绒服还是冷我是护士，是贵州的护理团队。
Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, February 14, Valentine's Day Hospital, medical care delivered chocolate picture / interviewee Yang Xue provided the martial arts cabin nurse Liu Yun (alias): water bottles filled with hot water, paper diapers stuffed in shoes, down jacket or cold I am a nurse, a nursing team in Guizhou Province.
这次负责分管西厅所有患者的护理工作，最多的就是患者日常的生活安排、生命体征的监测、病情和心理动态的观察，发现患者心情不好了，及时给予健康宣教、心理疏导。
This is responsible for the care of all patients in the West Hall, the most is the daily living arrangements, vital signs monitoring, the disease and psychological dynamics of observation, found that patients are in a bad mood, timely to give health education, psychological counseling.
我们2月4日出发，晚上11点到了酒店。
We set out on February 4 and arrived at the hotel at 11 p.m.
6日早上培训，晚上进舱。
6 morning training, night into the cabin.
刚进舱时医护人员没有取暖设备，但配有羽绒服。
The paramedics had no heating equipment when they first arrived, but were equipped with feather suits.
患者每张床配电热毯。
Each bed is provided with an electric blanket.
武展方舱西区的大门，也是患者入院的唯一大门，门口执勤的警察和医护 图 / 刘月提供15日下雪了，患者看见我这里没有取暖机，给我提了一个小太阳过来，还给我找来插板、连上电源，挺感动的。
On the 15th it snowed. The patient saw that I didn't have a heating machine. He brought me a little sun and found me a plug and a power supply. I was very moved.
我们是每班六小时：早上8点到下午2点，2点到晚上8点，8点到凌晨2点，凌晨2点到早上8点。
We work six hours a day: from 8am to 2pm, from 2am to 8pm, from 8am to 2am and from 2am to 8am.
我15日是晚班，晚上8点到凌晨2点，16日是凌晨2点到次日早上8点。
I am on evening shift on the 15th, from 8pm to 2am, and on the 16th from 2am to 8am the next morning.
夜班的话，下半夜肯定是最冷的，穿上衣服还是冷。
Night shift, must be the coldest in the middle of the night, put on clothes or cold.
但肯定比白班轻松，因为涉及的操作很少，患者都睡了。
But it must have been easier than the day shift, because the operation involved was so few that the patient slept.
患者睡了我们也不能睡，我们就走一走、看一看。
We can't sleep while the patient sleeps. Let's walk and have a look.
还有一些小办法，用那个水瓶灌一点热水，手拿着暖和一点。
There are also some small ways to use the water bottle to pour a little hot water, holding a little warmer in the hand.
有的老师甚至穿雨鞋，穿进去之前先裹一层纸尿裤，说那样比较暖和一点。
Some teachers even wear rain shoes, before wearing a layer of diaper pants, said that it is warmer.
三位护士与45房病患的合照，最右边是刘护士图 / 刘月提供（休息的时候我们）也可以坐、也可以站，就看自己情况，只坐着的话还是比较冷的。
The three nurses took a group photo of the patient in room 45. Nurse Liu Tu / Liu Yuet provided the photo on the right side (we could sit or stand during the break).
快下班（早上8点）的时候患者也起来活动了。
The patient got up and started working soon after work (8 a.m.).
他们在做操，我们有时候也跟着那些太极打得好的练一下，活动一下，稍微好（暖和）一点。
They are doing exercises, and we sometimes follow those tai chi good practice, exercise, a little better (warm).
特别是下班后，我那个手啊，手戴着手套特别冰凉，脱掉了也是冰透骨了，15日回来我就感觉自己都有一点不舒服了，16日喝了一点药稍微好一点。
Especially after work, my hand ah, wearing gloves are particularly cold, take off is also ice-cold, I came back on the 15th I feel a little uncomfortable, 16 took a little medicine slightly better.
到酒店可以洗热水澡。
You can take a hot bath at the hotel.
可能都增加了暖风机，相对来说还是比较人性化。
May be added to the fan, or relatively more humane.
武展方舱45房病患写给贵州支援队的一位护士的感谢信——“你的平安是我们最真挚的愿望。
"Your safety is our sincere desire," a letter of thanks from the patient in Room 45 of the Wu exhibit to a nurse from Guizhou Support.
” 图 / 刘月提供14日的时候，一个护士组长说感觉已经来月经了，然后裤子也脏了，没办法，也没得换。
Photo / Liu provides the 14th and a head nurse says she feels her menstruation has come and her trousers are dirty.
但是第一天一般来的量不多，15日下班的时候，她可能垫着尿不湿，她说全部打湿了，尿液加上血，特别难受。
But the first day usually does not come much, on the 15th, she may not be wet piss, she said all wet, urine plus blood, especially uncomfortable.
肯定是难受的，但再怎么的，作为一个组长，再崩溃也必须挺起来。
It must be tough, but anyway, as a team leader, you have to stand up.
我们刚进舱那几天没经验，常常因为发饭问题，有患者有意见。
We just entered the cabin in the few days of inexperience, often because of the rice problem, there are patients have problems.
我们西区都是男患者，饭量肯定比女患者多，我们都是按量统计的，比如说我360张床位，我就拿360 份盒饭。
We're all men in the West Side, and we certainly eat more than women, and we all count them by number. For example, I have 360 beds and I get 360 boxes of rice.
患者戴着口罩，我们也熟悉得不那么快，有可能他领了以后觉得不够，又冒名来领，导致后面的饭就不够，后面的患者就生气。
The patient is wearing a mask, we are not so familiar with it, it is possible that he did not take enough, and impersonate to lead to the back of the food is not enough, the latter patients are angry.
当然，我也能理解他们，毕竟不能让患者挨饿。
Of course, I can understand them, too. After all, they can't starve.
民警就过来帮我们协调、安抚。
The police came to help us to coordinate and pacify.
国博方舱医院四川医疗队员背上写着“我想吃麻辣烫”图 / 受访者提供有患者自主建了一个群，他们自愿来协助我们工作，大多数患者都非常好。
The Sichuan medical team at the Guobao Fang Hospital wrote "I want to eat spicy hot" on the back. / Respondents provided a group of patients who volunteered to help us with our work. Most of the patients were very good.
我们组的很多小伙伴都收到了每个病房的感谢信，我觉得这个是很有意义的。
Many of our group's friends have received thank-you notes from each ward, and I think this is very meaningful.
在一些病房门口，患者还邀请我们一起拍合影。
At the gate of some wards, the patients also invited us to take pictures together.
刘月护士与三位患者的合照。
Photographs of Nurse Liu and three patients.
戴红袖章的是一位“管家”志愿者，协助刘护士的工作 图 / 刘月提供15日雨雪对我们影响也不大。
Wearing the red armband is a "housekeeper" volunteers, to help nurse Liu's working chart / Liu Yuet to provide 15 days of rain and snow on our impact.
我们南方来的很难得看见雪。
It is rare to see snow when we come from the south.
15日那么大的雪，雪花不停地飘，其实堆积得也不是很厚，但我在窗台旁看了很长一会雪。
On the 15th it was snowing so hard that it was not very thick, but I watched the snow for a long time by the window-sill.
各种心情都有，也有激动、也有思乡。
There are all kinds of moods, as well as excitement and homesickness.
我就在窗户旁坐着，在那傻呆呆地坐着看雪。
I was sitting by the window, staring at the snow.
想家，我觉得特别想家，但是也没办法。
I feel homesick, but I can't help it.
我们也在问什么时候结束。
We're also asking when it's over.
Play武汉方舱医院发军大衣和厚被御寒 视频 /我们视频武展方舱医生张宁（化名）： 如果轻症患者因为担心，都不愿意来方舱隔离，才是恐怖的事15日方舱里冷死了，我们医护冻得流鼻涕，没有取暖器。
Zhang Ning (not his real name): If a light patient is worried and doesn't want to come to the cabin, it's terrible. It's cold in the cabin on the 15th.
不过患者还好，可以偎在被子里。
But the patient is OK, can snuggle in quilt.
患者上厕所和洗澡比较困难一点，其他还好。
It is more difficult for patients to go to the toilet and take a bath.
方舱条件是比较简单，这个主要是说医护工作环境不能跟平时正规医院相比，其实患者还好，轻症患者来这里隔离是非常必要的，患者所有的物资、药品都有保证，并且都是免费的。
The condition of the cabin is relatively simple. This mainly means that the medical and nursing work environment cannot be compared with that of the normal hospital. In fact, the patient is fine.
有好几个老街坊跟我打听情况，怕条件不好，来了受罪。
Several old neighbors came to me for information, fearing that the conditions would be bad.
如果轻症患者因为担心，都不愿意来方舱隔离，才是恐怖的事。
If a light patient is worried and does not want to come to the cabin isolation, it is a terrible thing.
我们辛苦点没事。
We'll work harder and be fine.
我们医生一个班六小时，需要提前一小时到岗，穿防护服做好准备，下班也是一样，按流程脱隔离衣，这样一个班前后得八小时。
Our doctor was in the six-hour shift and needed to be on duty an hour earlier, getting ready to wear protective clothing, and the same was true of being off duty.
在班上事情做不完，一个医生要管将近50个患者。
There is no work to be done in class. A doctor has nearly fifty patients to attend to.
上班都穿尿不湿，不吃东西也不上厕所。
I don't pee at work, I don't eat and I don't use the toilet.
下了班有盒饭。
There is a boxed lunch after work.
Play2月15日武展方舱外雨雪交加，工作人员坚持执勤视频 /受访者陆俊奕提供志愿者泡芙（化名）： 希望给方舱医院临时设个行政部门，让他们接收物资降温之后，我们收到了一些医院的保暖物资需求，好几个医院都表示需要暖宝宝和御寒衣物。
PlayFeb 15, 2007 The staff insisted on duty video / interviewee Lu Junyi provided volunteer Puff (alias): After hoping to set up a temporary administration to cool the cabin hospital, we received some warm materials from the hospital, and several hospitals expressed the need for warm babies and warm clothes.
有医疗队去武汉时，只带了一件冲锋衣。
When a medical team went to Wuhan, only one submachine suit was brought.
我们综合这些信息，就发出了请求。
We consolidated this information and sent out the request.
16日我们打算统计具体数量，发现有点困难：我们没办法告诉医院我们有什么物资，他们也很难量化具体的需求数量。
16 we plan to count the number, found a bit difficult: we can not tell hospitals what we have supplies, they are also difficult to quantify the specific requirements.
我们问一间方舱医院需要什么物资，他们只能告诉我们大概有多少人、需要什么东西，比如需要一些食物、一些保暖的衣物、一些女性用品，但是又说不出来具体数量。
We asked a cabin hospital what it needed, and they could only tell us how many people and what things we needed, such as food, warm clothing, some feminine things, but they could not say exactly how many.
不过好消息是，另一个团队筹集到一批暖宝宝贴，已经在去武汉的路上了。
But the good news is that another team has raised a bunch of warm baby stickers on their way to Wuhan.
武汉国博方舱医院发放的暖宝宝 图 / 受访者提供我们现在主要在进行非医疗物资的对接。
The Warm Baby Map / Interviewee issued by Wuhan Guobao Fang Cathedral Hospital provides us with non-medical materials for docking.
前两天协助运送了一批苹果，我们最早联系同济医院的总院，他们表示光谷那边新开的科室需要，我们联系光谷院区时，他们说非常需要水果、牛奶这样的营养品。
The first two days we helped deliver a batch of apples. We first contacted the main hospital of Tongji Hospital. They said there was a need for new departments on the other side of the valley.
这些天的工作后我们发现，这些营养品需求比较普遍，因为医护人员和患者需要补充营养。
Over the past few days, we have found that these nutritional needs are common, as health-care workers and patients need to be replenished.
现在很多物资不太方便运过去，像那些蔬菜什么的，但运输就不太好解决。
A lot of things are not easy to get through these days, like vegetables, but transportation is not easy.
绿色通道只给医疗物资走，大众的捐赠，比如蔬菜这种只能雇车运到湖北这边。
The Green Channel is for medical supplies only. Donations from the public, such as vegetables, can only be sent by car to Hubei side.
企业捐赠可以他们来承担运费。
Businesses can donate money to cover the freight costs.
个人捐赠就比较困难，比如从深圳运到武汉，10吨蔬菜要8500元运费、4吨蔬菜要3500元。
Individual donations can be difficult, such as shipping vegetables from Shenzhen to Wuhan, which costs 8,500 yuan for 10 tons of vegetables and 3,500 yuan for 4 tons of vegetables.
我们会对接为方舱提供餐食的酒店，他们蔬菜种类不怎么缺，有的接到了捐助也没地方放。
We'll dock the hotel that serves the cabins with vegetables that are not in short supply, or that have no room for donations.
但是我们了解到，湖北其他城市比较需要生活用品和蔬菜水果，前几天我收到了孝感市第一人民医院的需求，求助表上有牙膏、牙刷、沐浴露、洗发水，各需500份。
However, we have learned that other cities in Hubei need daily necessities and fruits and vegetables. The other day, I received the demand of the First People's Hospital of Xiaoyan City.
现在还有一个问题是捐赠流程比较繁琐，方舱医院没有一个统一的接收单位，需要比较大的沟通成本。
There is also the problem of the cumbersome donation process, the square cabin hospital does not have a unified receiving unit, the need for greater communication costs.
像我平时和医院沟通物资，同时联系五家医院，有一家是方舱，那其他四家很快都可以敲定，方舱不行。
As I usually communicate with the hospital, and contact five hospitals, one is square cabin, the other four can be finalized soon, the cabin is not.
方舱医院人手相对没有那么充足，我们送货过去他们说，“都是女同志，没有人能够卸货。
The cabin hospital was relatively understaffed, and we delivered what they said, "It's all lesbians. No one can unload the cargo.
”也有人建议过，希望给方舱医院临时设个行政部门，让他们接收物资。
It has also been suggested that a temporary administration be set up for the Fang'ang Hospital to receive supplies.
武汉客厅方舱发放的《抗疫·安心》读本 图 / 受访者提供一线抗疫工作者的家属、武汉市民江程： 比起所有在外奔波工作着的人，我们已经很幸福了14日晚说要降温，没想到幅度突然这么大。
2007-9-24 16: 16 2008-12-14 22: 16 The picture / interviewee provides the families of the first-line anti-epidemic workers, Wuhan Min Jiang Cheng: Compared to all the people working outside, we were very happy.
尽管门窗紧闭，呆在家里依然听到轰隆隆的惊雷。
In spite of the closed doors and windows, thunderstorms were still heard at home.
没错，就是惊天动地的那种雷声。
That's right. It's the thunder.
接着狂风暴雨，透过窗户玻璃都能听到呼啸的尖锐风声和暴雨拍打的声音，空气中渗透着丝丝寒意。
Then through the window-panes could be heard the shriek of the wind and the beating of the rain, and the air was cold.
在一线抗疫的先生因为工作原因在酒店隔离，非常时期空调也全部关闭不能使用。
The first-line anti-epidemic gentleman is quarantined at the hotel for work reasons, and the air conditioners were all shut down during the emergency.
他说实在太冷，让我赶紧找找家里有没有取暖设备。
He said it was too cold. Let me hurry and look for heating in the house.
在家各种找，终于找到一床被遗忘的电热毯。
At home looking for, finally found a forgotten electric blanket.
老公冒着狂风回家拿取暖设备，一脸沉重地说：这样少见的恶劣天气给武汉的抗疫增加了太多的难度，尤其是住在方舱里的患者和医护们，这样的寒冷他们该怎样渡过。
The husband braved the wind to get heating equipment, a heavy face said: such rare bad weather to Wuhan's anti-epidemic increased the difficulties, especially the patients and medical staff living in the cabin, how they should spend the cold.
第二天一早醒来，窗外是漫天飞舞的雪花，远处的楼顶已经有了一层积雪。
The next morning, wake up outside the window is flying snowflakes, the distant roof has a layer of snow.
打开手机，微信朋友圈里好多树被连根拔起的图片，树枝横倒在马路上。
Turn on the mobile phone, micro-letter in the circle of friends a lot of trees were uprooted pictures, branches across the road.
这种一夜狂降十几度的恶劣天气，就算常调侃“一日三季”的武汉人也望而生畏，毕竟狂风暴雨过后下雪是真的少见。
This kind of wild night a dozen degrees bad weather, even often ridicule "three seasons a day" Wuhan people are afraid of, after all, snow is really rare after the storm is really rare.
16日武汉转晴，方舱外执勤的警察 图 / 陆俊奕提供16日天晴了，蓝天白云，阳光明媚，如果不是马路上寂静得不正常，哪会感受到这个城市正遭受这样大的疫情。
Wuhan turned sunny on the 16th, the police map / Lu Junyi on duty outside provided 16 sunny days, blue sky and white clouds, the sun, if not the abnormal silence on the road, would not feel that the city is suffering such an epidemic.
我们家里有暖气、有热饭，比起所有在外奔波工作着的人，我们已经很幸福了。
We have heat and hot food in our house, and we are happier than anyone who works outside.
（感谢郭琴在采访中提供帮助）阻击NCP专题：点击“阅读原文”即可订阅和购买最新杂志。
(Thanks to Guo Qin for his help in this interview) Stop NCP Project: Click "Read the original" to subscribe to and buy the latest magazines.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
探访方舱医院：风雪中的患者、医护与志愿者。
Visit the Fong Kok Hospital: Snowy Patients, Health Care and Volunteers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "探访方舱医院：风雪中的患者、医护与志愿者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Visit to cabin hospital: Snowy patients, health care and volunteers;;
var msg_desc = "“我在窗台旁看了很长一会雪，特别想家，我们也在问什么时候结束。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "I watched the snow at the window sill for a long time, and I was homesick.
”";。
";;
title: '疫情凶猛，武汉患者的困境与希望 | 阻击NCP',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '疫情下的中小微企业： “挺过这关，就像生过病的人会有抗体” | 阻击NCP',。
MSMEs in the epidemic: "Survive this as a sick person has antibodies" & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '感染的志愿者：一对互相隐瞒病情的母女',。
Infected volunteers: A mother and daughter who hid their disease from each other.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '钟南山：守责才是最大的政治',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & rsquo; s responsibility.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
