武汉10万床位待命：从居家隔离到集中隔离的艰难纠偏。
Wuhan 100,000 beds stand by: from the home isolation to the difficult rectification of centralized isolation.
吴靖王晨吴晔婷。
Wu selected Wang Chen Ting.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
武汉封城之初遇上医疗挤兑，“居家隔离”政策随之推出。
Wuhan closed the city of the beginning of a medical run, "home isolation" policy was launched.
但社区资源和能力未匹配，反而加重家庭内部交叉传染。
However, the mismatch between community resources and capacities exacerbates intra-household cross-infection.
这是武汉病例此后暴增的主要原因。
This is Wuhan case since then the main reason for the explosion.
纠错政策姗姗来迟，10天后的2月2日，“居家隔离”变为“集中隔离”。
On February 2, 10 days after the long overdue correction, "home segregation" became "centralized segregation."
但初期隔离点医护能力不足，同样令政策推行吃紧。
But the lack of capacity in the initial isolation points has also strained policy implementation.
形格势禁。
Forbidden City.
方向原本没错的政策遇上资源不足，导致“好事变坏事。
Policies that go in the right direction are under-resourced, leading to "good things go wrong."
”政策执行僵化、调整过慢，无奈之中错上加错。
Policy implementation is rigid, adjustment is too slow, and mistakes are compounded.
直到此后一周定点医院不断增加、火神山雷神山完工、方舱医院推出，外省医护人员的加入，医疗资源才逐渐跟上。
Until the following week, the number of designated hospitals increased, the completion of Mount Huo Shen Lei Shenshan, the introduction of the Fang cabin hospital, the addition of provincial medical personnel, medical resources gradually kept pace.
2月20日前，武汉储备10万床位。
Wuhan reserves 100,000 beds before February 20.
重症病人1.4万张，轻症点3万张，集中隔离点5.6万张。
There were 14,000 severe cases, 30,000 mild cases and 56,000 centralized quarantine points.
医疗与社会资源逐步扩充，令决策与施策更具资源支撑。
The gradual expansion of medical and social resources has made decision-making and policy-making more resource-intensive.
前车之鉴，令如今的施政者更注重细节实效，更注重及时调整纠错，武汉逐渐往“精细型”病人分流方向上转化。
In the past, Wuhan has been transformed into a "fine-grained" patient diversion by focusing more on details and more on adjusting and correcting mistakes in time.
△ 2月14日，理发师在帮援助医疗队医护人员剪头发，为了减少头发暴露带来的感染风险。
On Feb. 14, a hairdresser is helping medical staff of the medical team to cut their hair in order to reduce the risk of infection from hair exposure.
吴靖摄20多天以来，武汉某社区书记张平（化名）精神状态和身体慢慢好了起来，一直让他紧张、一度因此担忧是被新冠病毒感染的咳嗽也消失不见：“看来这不过是一场感冒”。
Wu Jing for more than 20 days, Wuhan community secretary Zhang Ping (alias) mental state and body gradually improved, has been making him nervous, the fear of a new crown virus has disappeared: "It seems that this is just a cold.
与之相伴，工作压力也逐渐减轻。
Concomitant with this, the work pressure also gradually reduces.
1月底时，他一天数次面对着闯进社区办公室求安排床位、用车的患者和家属，半夜接到来不及住院的病人在家中去世、要求社区拉走遗体的电话。
At the end of January, he was confronted several times a day with patients and family members who had broken into community offices to arrange beds, cars and telephone calls in the middle of the night from patients who had died in their late-night homes and asked the community to remove the bodies.
焦虑和恐惧写在他的脸上，口中不断重复一句外人听起来有点荒诞的话：“我得让我团队的人都活下来。
Anxiety and fear were written on his face, and he kept repeating in his mouth a strange phrase from an outsider: "I have to keep my team alive.
”那时，武汉封城刚满一星期。
Wuhan had been closed for just a week.
封城之初，恐慌的新冠病毒感染和疑似人群，像潮水一样涌向医院，医疗资源马上被挤兑，医院不堪重负。
At the beginning of the siege, panicked new canopy infections and suspected crowds flooded the hospital, straining medical resources and overstretching the hospital.
“居家隔离”决策此时推出，在短缺的资源下进行粗放式病人分流。
"Home isolation" decision-making at this time, in the shortage of resources to carry out extensive patient diversion.
重压之下，全市2000多个社区承担病人隔离和分流的任务。
Under pressure, more than 2,000 communities across the city undertake the task of patient isolation and diversion.
社区工作人员，像民兵被派上了特种兵的战场。
Community workers, like militiamen, are sent to the battlefield of special forces.
过去的20天，张平手下的社区工作人员有近一半辞职。
In the past 20 days, nearly half of Zhang's community workers have resigned.
十几个人面对2000多户家庭，在防护设备不足的情况下，每天上门排查隔离效果，安排住院——这是不可能完成的任务。
Dozens of people, faced with more than 2,000 families, are struggling with inadequate protective equipment to screen their homes for isolation every day and arrange hospitalization - an impossible task.
而由于家庭内部隔离和防护措施不足，全家被感染的例子比比皆是。
As a result of the isolation within the family and inadequate protective measures, cases of infection of the entire family abound.
得不到确诊的病人、危重病人的家属无法安心待在家，他们数次奔波于医院和社区，成为一个个移动感染源。
Families of the undiagnosed and critically ill are unable to stay at home and have travelled several times to hospitals and communities to become mobile sources of infection.
“居家隔离”可视为危机初期的无奈之举，但在明显看出未达效果之后，纠错依然姗姗来迟。
"Home segregation" can be seen as a last resort in the early stages of a crisis, but when it becomes clear that it is not working, correction is still too late.
在这期间，1月23日到2月2日，武汉报告确诊病例增长了10倍，从495例变成了5142例。
During this period, Wuhan reported a tenfold increase in confirmed cases from January 23 to February 2, from 495 to 5,142.
2月2日，政策突然转变，“集中隔离和收治”推向前台。
On February 2, there was a sudden shift in policy, with "centralized isolation and treatment" being pushed to the fore.
然而各种资源没有跟上，隔离点缺乏医护能力，也没有患者急需的检测和就医通道，一开始政策难以推行，“应收尽收”的时间点一再推迟。
However, resources have not kept pace, isolation points lack the medical capacity, and patients do not have much-needed access to testing and medical care, which initially proved difficult to implement, and the "receivable" point of time was repeatedly postponed.
随着越来越多定点医院被征用，火神山、雷神山的完工，收治确诊轻症病人的十几个方舱医院的开放，以及密切接触、疑似人群的宾馆隔离点增多，还有外省医护人员的加入——在资源扩张下的“病人分流”，逐渐成为现实。
With more and more designated hospitals requisitioned, the completion of Mount Fire, the opening of more than a dozen square-cabin hospitals for patients with confirmed mild cases, and close contacts, increased isolation of suspected crowds in hotels, and the addition of medical personnel from outside the province, "patient diversion" has gradually become a reality as resources expand.
2月8日，曾担任武汉市委书记的中央政法委秘书长陈一新回到武汉，担任中央指导组副组长之后，张平明显感觉到执行力度一下子加大。
On February 8, 2007, Chen Xinxin, secretary-general of Wuhan Municipal Party Committee, returned to Wuhan to serve as vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group.
2月13日，湖北和武汉又在同一天换帅，原上海市长应勇调任湖北省委书记，原济南市委书记王忠林调任武汉市委书记。
February 13, Hubei and Wuhan on the same day change coach, the former mayor of Shanghai should be transferred to Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, the former Jinan party secretary Wang Zhonglin transferred to Wuhan party secretary.
张平所在的这个中型社区，有2000多户人家、5000多居民，在2月15日那天，十几例危重病人都被医院收治，终于完成确诊患者“存量清零”。
Zhang Ping's medium-sized community, with more than 2,000 families and more than 5,000 residents, was admitted to the hospital on February 15 for a dozen critically ill patients.
尽管手下的人走了一半，他做的工作开始聚焦于被严格管控出行的居民们买菜、买药，回归社区工作人员能力之内的事宜。
Although his men were half-way through, his work began to focus on buying vegetables, buying medicines, and returning to the capacity of community workers who were under strict control of travel.
失败的“居家隔离”1月20日，在武汉工作的互联网工作者陈一君（化名），是极少数的提前实行家庭内部隔离的人。
Chen Yijun (alias), an internet worker who works in Wuhan on January 20, is one of the few people to have implemented early family isolation.
那时武汉一线医护人员已敏感地意识到新冠病毒存在人传人的可能，外界舆论还停留在“可防可控”。
At that time, Wuhan first-line medical personnel have become sensitive to the possibility of human-to-human transmission of the new crown virus, public opinion remained "preventable controllable."
陈一君听到父母吃饭有些咳嗽，马上用公筷分开吃饭。
Chen Yijun heard his parents eat some cough, immediately eat separately with chopsticks.
28日，母亲开始发热，他让父母分房睡。
28, the mother began to feverish, he let parents sleep in separate rooms.
29日，父母在各自房间隔离，三餐送到门口，督促他们量体温。
29, parents in their respective rooms isolated, three meals to the door, urging them to take temperature.
家里酒精不够，轮番用紫外臭氧灯进行消毒。
There is not enough alcohol in the house. Use ultraviolet ozone lights to disinfect.
去医院做检查时，选在晚上十点，外界人流较少的时刻，外出穿的衣服和鞋子，全部放在门外集中消毒。
Go to the hospital for a check-up, at 10 pm, when the outside flow of people less time, out of the clothes and shoes, all placed outside the door centralized disinfection.
即便如此，感染还是发生了，父亲核酸检测为阳性，且病得越来越重；母亲CT显示肺部异常，核酸检测却为阴性。
Even so, the infection occurred, and the father tested positive for nucleic acid, which was getting worse and worse; the mother CT showed abnormal lungs, but negative nucleic acid tests.
武汉协和东西湖医院重症医学科ICU主任袁海涛，提到居家隔离时，认为老百姓很难意识到自己是否处在隔离状态，以及如何隔离。
Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital ICU Director of the Department of Severe Medicine Yuan Haitao, referring to home isolation, said people find it difficult to realize whether they are isolated and how.
袁海涛在1月中旬转移危重新冠病人的过程中，不幸感染。
Yuan Haitao was unlucky enough to get infected in mid-January during the transfer of a critically ill Crown patient.
当天回家时，尚未发热，浑身酸痛，他就把自己关进书房，第二天发烧后，直接到医院住院。
When he returned home that day, not yet feverish and sore, he shut himself up in his study, and the next day, having a fever, went straight to the hospital.
尚未确诊时，他让家人做好隔离措施，为书房消毒，在极其专业的防护意识下，他的家人才没有被感染。
Undiagnosed, he asked his family to do a good job of isolation, disinfect the study, in the extreme professional sense of protection, his family was not infected.
到了2月初，陈一君的父母都没有住进医院，陈一君在网上看到无数个求助的帖子，越来越绝望，开始加入了“挤兑医疗资源的大军中”，到处求人帮忙帮父亲找一张住院床位。
By the beginning of February, Chen's parents had not been admitted to the hospital, and Chen had seen countless posts on the Internet asking for help finding a hospital bed. More and more desperate, Chen joined the "army of medical resources" and asked for help in finding a bed for his father.
他上网发帖、求助媒体，无所不用其极。
He posted on the Internet, help the media, do everything possible.
和他一样，1月底2月初，居家隔离导致的大量聚集性感染人群，又集体遭遇住院难的问题。
Like him, at the end of January and the beginning of February, a large number of people with sexually transmitted infections from their homes were suffering from hospitalization.
而社区工作人员，反倒是最无能为力的人。
Community workers, on the other hand, are the most powerless.
陈一君多次打电话将父亲情况告知，他们的回复只是已将情况上报。
Chen Yijun repeatedly called his father to inform them that their response has only reported the situation.
到了2月2日，武汉已征用40余家医院、1万多张床位逐步开放收治新冠病人，此时确诊数仅有5124名，仅为可收治床位数一半的情况下，依旧是一床难求。
By February 2, Wuhan had requisitioned more than 40 hospitals and more than 10,000 beds to gradually open new crowns, while the number of confirmed cases was only 5,124, which is still a problem in a situation where the number of beds available is half that of the total number of beds available.
△2月10日，定点救治医院-武汉市第八医院门口，医护人员在逐一接收来自社区、街道送来的发热或疑似患者。
February 10, the designated treatment hospital - Wuhan City Hospital No. 8, medical personnel are receiving one by one from the community, the streets of the heating or suspected patients.
吴靖摄。
Wu Jing She.
一位在武汉协和医院工作的医生称，住院人数一直以来都大于床位数。
A doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital said the number of hospitalizations has always been greater than the number of beds.
武汉12月底疫情开始，发热病人大量出现，当时核酸检测试剂盒尚未下发，各大医院收治病人的标准是CT观察肺部影像，“症状严重的就收”，袁海涛说。
Wuhan began an epidemic in late December, when fever patients began to appear in large numbers. Nucleic acid test kits had not yet been issued, and the standard for patients admitted to major hospitals was CT-based lung imaging, "where the symptoms are serious," Yuan said.
1月19日国家卫健委宣布开始下放核酸检测试剂盒。
On 19 January, the National Board of Health announced the beginning of the decentralization of nucleic acid test kits.
之前大量住院病人没有出院，许多感冒病人因为恐惧托关系住院，即使公开的确诊人数低于床位数，实际上所有医院早已住满。
Previously, a large number of hospitalized patients had not been discharged, many cold patients were hospitalized for fear of commitment, and even though the number of publicly diagnosed cases was lower than the number of beds, virtually all hospitals were already full.
此时，核酸检测结果成为病人是否住院最艰难的门槛，那些本来CT检测后可能被收治入院的重症病人，成为等待核酸检测的“疑似病人”，不能入院，被隔离在家中。
At this point, nucleic acid test results become the most difficult threshold of hospitalization, those patients who might otherwise be admitted to the hospital CT examination, become "suspected patients" waiting for nucleic acid testing, can not be hospitalized, isolated at home.
张平社区在春节前后，就有两位80多岁的CT显示肺部异常的老人，尚未等到核酸检测，就因病情加重在家中去世。
Zhang Ping community around the Spring Festival, there are two 80-year-old CT lung abnormalities, not waiting for nucleic acid testing, because of the aggravation of the disease died at home.
另一位50多岁的女性确诊病人，被社区告知，当天上级协调出了一张床位，可以去红十字会医院住院，在红十字会医院等待床位时排队了一天，还没等到床位，她的女儿打电话回社区哭诉母亲去世惨状：“妈妈死在医院的地上，裤子全部尿湿。
Another woman, in her 50s, was told by the community that her superior had coordinated a bed for admission to the Red Cross hospital, had been waiting in line for a day while waiting in a Red Cross hospital, and was still waiting in bed.
”高危疑似病人的家属也成为高度风险的密切接触人群，他们不断去医院排队等待一线入院的机会，或者不断找社区寻求解决办法，社区无法限制他们出入，居家隔离的意义荡然无存。
Families of high-risk patients have also become high-risk, close-knit groups who constantly wait for first-line admissions in hospitals or seek solutions from the community, which is unable to limit their access and eliminate the value of residential isolation.
武汉硚口区某社区的四位工作人员，就有一位被感染，导致同办公室的四个工作人员全部被隔离，整个社区的居家隔离工作陷入瘫痪。
One in four workers in a community in Wuhan's Zhangkou district was infected, isolating four staff members from the same office and paralysing the community's isolation.
政策虽然变了，但资源没跟上推进很难政策转折点发生在2月2日。
Policy has changed, but it is difficult to move ahead with resources. The policy turning point occurred on February 2.
张平等社区工作人员收到了武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部的要求，对涉及新冠肺炎的四类人采取集中收治：确诊患者尽快安排床位；疑似患者进行集中隔离；发热患者集中隔离观察；密切接触者集中隔离——从根本上推翻了居家隔离的方案。
Zhang's community workers received a request from Wuhan's New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command to provide intensive care for four categories of patients involved in the new crown pneumonia: to arrange beds for confirmed patients as soon as possible; to concentrate quarantine for suspected patients; to concentrate quarantine on fever sufferers; and to focus on isolation for close contacts - fundamentally overturning the home isolation program.
2月3日，一批宾馆被改造为隔离点，但政策推进很难。
On 3 February, a number of guesthouses were converted into isolated sites, but policy advances were difficult.
最初指挥部提出的要求是最晚至2月7日，完成武汉所有疑似病例的核酸检测，争取在2月5日24时，收治所有确诊病人。
The initial command request was to complete nucleic acid testing for all suspected Wuhan cases by 7 February at the latest, with a view to treating all confirmed patients by 2400 hours on 5 February.
后来，又提出9日以前完成发热病人检测，9日24时前所有确诊居家隔离的病人都要收治。
Later, a 9-day completion of fever patients testing, before 2400 before 9 all patients diagnosed in isolation in their homes to be admitted to treatment.
再后来，这个时间点又推迟……归根结底，原因在于医疗资源没有跟上，隔离点缺乏医护能力，定点医院的床位依然空不出来，一些本应住院的病人却被安置到隔离点。
Later, this point of time was delayed... after all, because of the lack of medical resources, the lack of medical capacity in the isolation points, the unavailability of beds in the designated hospitals and the placement of some patients who should have been hospitalized in isolation points.
八点健闻的文章《武汉新冠肺炎四类人员集中隔离，为何这么难？》中记录了一位患者的控诉：“我这么重的病人就把我拖这里观察？到时候晚上要吸氧了，啥都没有，那就等死了是不是？”△ 2月3日，隔离酒店门口，疑似患者询问工作人员目前隔离情况。
The eight-point article, "Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia four categories of personnel concentrated isolation, why so difficult?" records a patient's complaint: "I was dragged here by such a heavy patient to observe?
吴靖摄。
Wu Jing She.
家住武汉市江岸区天兴花园23岁的郑秀和19岁的郑涛两姐弟（均为化名），父母被确诊为新冠病人，于2月3日被送进宾馆隔离点，2月7日父亲休克，隔离点工作人员让郑秀领回家，她想办法送到了协和医院，医院当时看情况极其危重，不收。
Zheng Xiu, 23, and Zheng Tao, 19, whose parents were diagnosed as new crowns, were admitted to a hotel seclusion on February 3. On February 7, Zheng Xiu was sent home by the staff of the quarantine point.
她跪在地上求医生收下，最终虽然收治，但为时已晚，父亲于2月8日去世。
She knelt down and begged the doctor to take it, but it was too late and her father died on February 8.
当天，母亲又在隔离点呼吸衰竭，送到汉口医院，医院没有床位，只能在大厅输液，自己买袋装氧气。
On the same day, the mother in isolation point respiratory failure, to Hankou Hospital, the hospital no beds, can only be infusion hall, buy their own bags of oxygen.
两姐弟在大厅冰冷的铁皮椅子上坐了两夜。
The two sisters sat for two nights in the cold iron-clad chair in the hall.
最终，母亲以危重病人的身份被送往火神山医院。
Eventually, the mother was sent to Mount Fire Hospital as a critically ill person.
父亲确诊、母亲高度疑似的陈一君作为密切接触人群，在社区的反复要求下于2月4日去了宾馆隔离点，他的初衷在于如果顺从社区，或许社区能够安排病重的父亲入院。
As a close contact with the crowd, Chen Yijun, diagnosed by his father and highly suspected of his mother, went to a hotel seclusion on February 4 at the behest of the community, with the intention that if he obeyed the community, perhaps the community could arrange for a seriously ill father to be hospitalized.
但社区依然束手无策，最终，他反复努力找寻私人关系终于把父亲送进医院。
But the community remained helpless, and eventually he tried to find a personal connection and finally sent his father to hospital.
这个问题的解决之道一方面是各地医疗队的支援，另一方面是新增定点医院和火神山、雷神山的建设，以及一种新类型医院的大规模建设——方舱医院。
The solution to this problem lies, on the one hand, in the support of medical teams from all over the world and, on the other hand, in the construction of new designated hospitals and Mount Mars and Raytheon Mountain, as well as a large-scale construction of a new type of hospital, the Fangcao Hospital.
“方舱医院建晚了”2月1日，呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰院士到武汉考察，他的建议成为武汉新冠疫情防治中一个重要转折点。
Wang Chen, a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine, visited Wuhan on February 1 and his proposal became an important turning point in the prevention and treatment of the new crown epidemic in Wuhan.
在2月5日晚接受白岩松访谈的视频中，王辰指出轻症病人收治不足，居家隔离不但不会避免传染，反倒会造成社会和家庭的进一步感染，这是加剧疫情的最重要因素。
In a video interview with Bai Yansong on the evening of February 5, Wang Chen pointed out that instead of avoiding infection, isolation in the home can cause further social and family infections, which is the most important factor in exacerbating the epidemic.
他提出了“方舱医院”的概念，利用大型场所，集中收治轻症病人。
He proposed the concept of "square cabin hospital," using large-scale venues, to concentrate on the treatment of light patients.
2月3日，总床位数超过一万的第一批15家方舱医院开始建设，并于2月5日陆续投入使用，相比定点医院的床位，方舱医院的床位起初较为宽松，它收治病人的标准起初是确诊病人，轻症患者，没有基础疾病，65岁以下。
On February 3, the first batch of 15 Fangcao hospitals with beds of more than 10,000 beds began to be built and began to open on February 5. Compared with the beds in designated hospitals, the beds in the Fang Cathedral Hospital were initially more relaxed.
多位业内专家认为方舱医院建晚了，“这次新冠疫情和2003年的sars很不一样。
"The new crown is very different from the SARS outbreak in 2003," said many industry experts.
新冠确诊人数数量极多，但大多数是轻症，需要方舱那样的大型设施来容纳轻症病人。
The new crown confirmed a large number of people, but most are mild, requiring a large facility such as a square cabin to accommodate light patients.
”Play△住进方舱医院的患者，开始跳起广场舞2月4日开始建设的塔子湖方舱医院由湖北省中西医院接管，2月12日开始接收第一批病人，到2月13日下午5点，一共收了430人。
The first batch of patients was taken over by the Western and Central Hospital in Hubei Province on February 4, and 430 people were admitted by 5 p.m. on February 13.
该院院长凌瑞杰对八点健闻说，原则上方舱医院是收轻症确诊病人，因为条件比较简陋，也有部分病情比较重的患者收进来之后，再转出到定点医院去。
The hospital's director, Ling Ruijie, told the eight-point news that in principle the hospital was a confirmed case of mild illness because conditions were relatively rudimentary and some patients with more serious illnesses were admitted and then transferred out to designated hospitals.
“现在要求（方舱医院）不能有人去世，危重病人吸氧设备之类的都不到位，没有安全保障。
"There is a requirement that no one die [at the Fang Cavern Hospital], no oxygen equipment for critically ill people is in place, there is no safety.
转出去的标准是，按照指南要求，血氧饱和度、严重的基础病等来判定。
The criteria for diversion are blood oxygen saturation, severe underlying disease, etc., as required by the guidelines.
”（按照第五版诊疗方案：呼吸窘迫、呼吸频率（RR）超过每分钟30次；静息状态下血氧饱和度低于93%；氧合指数低于300mmHg，满足这三条指征中的任意一条就属于重型患者）2月13日收治的430人中，转走了10个重症患者。
According to the fifth edition of the protocol: respiratory distress, respiratory frequency (RR) more than 30 times per minute; resting hypoxic saturation of less than 93 per cent; oxygen syndication index of less than 300 mmHg, any one of these three indicators being a severe patient).
“很多定点医院都爆满，只能转到自己的医院，别的医院没办法接手。
"Many of the designated hospitals are full and have to be transferred to their own hospitals.
”凌瑞杰说道。
"said Ling.
集中隔离控制了疫情的扩散，但早期错过治疗的病人需要定点医院开拓更多的床位。
Centralized isolation controlled the spread of the epidemic, but patients who missed treatment early needed more beds in designated hospitals.
为了扩张重症床位，2月中旬，中南医院又扩张了200张床，政府一声令下，两三天之内，分批收治重症病人。
In mid-February, the South-Central Hospital expanded by another 200 beds in an effort to expand the number of seriously ill patients, which the Government ordered to be delivered in batches within two to three days.
医院连夜施工，将普通病区改造未传染病病区。
Hospital night construction, common disease areas will be transformed into areas of non-communicable diseases.
但因为分流政策晚了一步，而重症患者的治疗周期较长，定点医院仍然一床难求。
However, due to the delayed diversion policy and the long treatment cycle of patients with severe diseases, designated hospitals are still difficult to access.
不堪重负的定点医院，外界把收治病人当作对他们唯一的要求，但一些医院内部病区的安排不合理，又加大院内感染的风险。
Overburdened designated hospitals, the external acceptance of patients as their only requirements, but some hospital areas within the arrangement of unreasonable, and increased the risk of hospital infection.
2月中旬，一个外省医疗队援助一家武汉市定点医院，他们发现几十位未做核酸检测的疑似病人，病房是三人一间。
In mid-February, a provincial medical team assisted a Wuhan designated hospital and found dozens of suspected patients who had not been tested for nucleic acid, in a ward of three.
医疗队的一名医生提出质疑，疑似病人应该单独隔离，否则容易交叉感染。
A doctor from the medical team questioned whether the suspected patient should be isolated or be vulnerable to cross-infection.
武汉那家医院院长听了非常不满，认为医疗队是想少收病人。
Wuhan that hospital director listened to very dissatisfied, think that the medical team is to accept fewer patients.
最终，北京医疗队坚持多人病房只收危重的确诊患者。
In the end, the Beijing medical team insisted that multi-patient wards accept only critically diagnosed patients.
“这些危重患者，发病时间都是在2月初，发病都有十几天了，时间比较长，错过了早期治疗的最佳时期。
"These critical patients, the onset of the disease in early February, the onset of more than 10 days, a relatively long time, missed the best period of early treatment.
”上述医生说道。
'said the physician.
过渡期的“流浪病人”陈一君的父亲住医院后，他又在隔离点开始担心母亲，因为核酸检测是阴性，即使肺部CT显示单肺感染，根本没有入院或者是进入收治轻症患者方舱医院的可能。
After Chen's father was in the hospital, he began to worry about his mother at the quarantine site because the nucleic acid test was negative, and even if the lung CT showed a single lung infection, there was no admission at all or there was a possibility of entering the cabin hospital for people with mild cases.
她被送到离陈一君不远的另一个宾馆隔离点。
She was taken to another hotel not far from Chen Yijun.
“只有药，不能打针，也没有吸氧机等设备，一旦病情加重，该怎么办？”这成为陈一君隔离期间最焦虑的问题。
"Only drugs, no injection, no oxygen suction machine and other equipment, once the disease aggravated, how to do?" This became Chen Yijun isolation during the most anxious problem.
核酸检测，一直是新冠疫情中决定病人是否收治、决定确诊病人数量的重要指标。
Nucleic acid testing has been an important index in determining the admission of patients and the number of patients diagnosed in the new crown epidemic.
一线临床医生却对这一指标充满争议，阳性的一定是确诊病人，但因取样等因素，“假阴性”的存在导致核酸检测准确率只有30%-40%。
While frontline clinicians are controversial about this indicator, positive for patients must be diagnosed, but the presence of "false-negative" factors, such as sampling, results in an accuracy rate of only 30% - 40%.
最早提出应把CT检测做为临床确诊准则的中南医院张笑春认为，病毒潜伏是跟病毒载量和采样有关。
Zhang Xiaochun, who first suggested that CT should be used as a criterion for clinical diagnosis, suggested that the latent virus is related to viral load and sampling.
阳性确诊患者在治疗后，病毒被消灭一部分，病毒数量减少，很可能取样的部位检测不到病毒，检测结果是阴性，但肺泡内还有病毒。
When a positive confirmed patient is treated, the virus is destroyed in part, the number of viruses decreases, it is likely that no virus has been detected in the area sampled and the results are negative, but there are viruses in the alveoli.
多地出现，一些患者多次核酸检测为阴性，但病症不断恶化的情况。
Many cases occur in which patients are tested negative for multiple nucleic acid tests, but the condition is worsening.
1月底核酸检测放开后，确诊人数暴增，但还有许多阴性的患者,CT诊断是应该继续治疗不该出院的。
After the release of nucleic acid testing at the end of January, the number of confirmed cases surged, but there were many negative patients for whom CT diagnosis warranted continued treatment.
以第五医院为例，1月31做的住院病人的检测，超过70%是阴性，医院就在2月5日发布上级部门的内部通知，从当天起，“能出院的尽量出院，如有临床症状重的，可以继续留院观察或治疗，稍后会把双阴患者名单上传，各科室针对自己科室的患者尽量劝出院”，该通知得到了内部医护人员的证实，大批患者出院。
In the case of hospital No. 5, more than 70 per cent of inpatients tested negative on January 31 were negative. From February 5, hospitals released internal circulars saying: "Those who can be discharged from hospitals can stay in hospital for observation or treatment if they have serious clinical symptoms.
同济、协和、中南等收治危重病人的定点医院，医生内部达成一个默契。
Tongji, Concorde, South and other hospitals for the treatment of critically ill patients, doctors have reached a tacit understanding.
“尽量只让相对轻症的患者出院，很多阴性患者真的不适合出院。
"Relatively light cases have been discharged as much as possible, and many negative patients are really unfit to leave the hospital.
”一位同济医院的医生说。
"said a doctor at Tongji Hospital.
对这一类患者，决策层早有考虑。
For this category of patients, the decision-making level has long been considered.
2月2日，武汉征用第四批17家定点医院，专门收治从前三批定点医院转出的首次检测结果为阴性的疑似病例，包括武汉商职医院、武汉市第八医院等。
On February 2, Wuhan requisitioned a fourth batch of 17 designated hospitals, specializing in the first three batches of designated hospitals transferred negative results of the first test, including Wuhan commercial hospital, Wuhan eighth hospital, and so on.
但第四批700多张床位，无法接收全部转出的患者。
However, the fourth tranche of over 700 beds does not accommodate all referrals.
以江汉区为例，全区只有武汉商职医院能够接收需要继续治疗的双阴性患者。
Take Jiang Han area as an example, only Wuhan commercial hospital can accept the double-negative patients who need to continue treatment.
武汉商职医院院长对八点健闻介绍，医院听从安排，只接收红十字会医院转出的这类病人，由120急救车接送，“双阴性，隔离观察，有基础疾病在这里治疗，比如这个患者还有糖尿病、中风等”。
Wuhan commercial hospital director of the eight Jiangnan introduction, the hospital obeyed the arrangement, only the Red Cross hospital transfer of such patients, by 120 first-aid vehicles, "double-negative, isolated observation, there is a basic disease treatment here, such as diabetes, stroke and so on."
△ 2020年2月10日，武汉市商职医院门口被封锁，此时已经接收了200名左右的新冠双阴但仍有基础疾病需要治疗的患者。
On February 10, 2020, the entrance to Wuhan City Commercial Hospital was blocked. By this time, about 200 patients with new crown and double yin who still needed treatment for basic diseases had been admitted.
吴靖摄。
Wu Jing She.
而江汉区还有湖北省中西医结合医院、协和医院、同济医院等家定点医院，上述类型患者在转出时就没有定点医院接收。
There are also hospitals in Hubei Province combining Chinese and Western medicine, such as hospitals, concord hospitals and Tongji hospitals. These types of patients are not admitted to designated hospitals at the time of transfer.
从2月1日开始，截至2月10日左右，商职医院已经差不多快收满了患者，230张床位，配备的医护人员除了本院的，还有来自社区医院的和援助医疗队的，但仍然“真的不够”。
From February 1, until around February 10, the commercial hospital was almost full, with 230 beds, staffed by staff from community hospitals and aid teams, but still "really not enough."
当核酸检测成为确诊病人的唯一标准时，大量的阴性但重症的病人，被卡在核酸检测这一标准上，成为现实中要么入不了院，要么必须出院的“流浪病人”。
When nucleic acid testing becomes the sole criterion for identifying a patient, a large number of negative but severe patients are stuck in the nucleic acid test, becoming "vagrant patients" who either cannot be admitted to the hospital or must be discharged.
储备10万床位，收治能力是精细分流之根本让张笑春等临床一线医生感到惊喜的是，2月5日，第五版诊疗指南的确诊标准添加了CT影像的临床判断，这意味着在准则上打破核酸检测的缺陷。
To the surprise of clinical first-line doctors such as Zhang Xiaochun, on February 5, the diagnostic criteria for the fifth edition of the diagnostic guide added CT images to the clinical judgment, meaning that the guidelines broke down nucleic acid test defects.
调整几天后，对外公布的确诊病例就按照诊疗指南。
After a few days of adjustment, confirmed cases announced to the public will follow the guidelines for diagnosis and treatment.
2月12日，武汉确诊人数一天暴增13436例——这并不是真的新增，而是原本已有但遮蔽的实际病例浮出了水面。
On February 12, the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan surged by 13,436 a day - not really new, but actual cases that had already been covered but had surfaced.
核酸检测双阴，但CT检测有肺部影像学改变的“流浪病人”有了被医院接收的条件。
Nucleic acid detection of the diyin, but CT detection of changes in lung imaging "vagrant patients" have been admitted to the hospital conditions.
让陈一君开心的是，他的母亲终于可以从隔离点转往方舱医院。
To Chen's delight, his mother was finally able to move from the quarantine point to the cabin hospital.
但暴增的确诊病人，更加考验定点医院的收治能力。
However, the sudden increase in the number of confirmed patients, more tests the capacity of designated hospitals.
张平所在的社区，街道要求将一位65岁的核酸检测双阴、肺部影响改变的老人送到红十字会医院。
In Zhang's community, streets are demanding that a 65-year-old man with altered lung influence tested for nucleic acid be taken to a Red Cross hospital.
这位老人检测标准改变后，成了确诊病人，此前因为双阴的检测结果，定点医院不收治，而方舱医院因为病人65岁，也不收治，她成了无处可去，只能在家隔离的病人。
The change in the old man's test criteria led to the diagnosis of a patient who had not been admitted to a designated hospital because of the results of the double yin test, while the Fang She was left with nowhere to go but to stay at home because the patient was 65 and did not receive treatment.
街道办保证医院一定有床位。
The street office assures that the hospital has beds.
但病人被送到医院后，等待了几个小时还没有被安排床位，老人几小时没吃没喝，也没人管，开始在地上打滚，闹了起来。
But when the patient was taken to the hospital and waited several hours without being placed in bed, the old man did not eat, drink or take care of himself for several hours, he began to roll on the ground and make a scene.
后来终于入住。
I finally moved in.
并不是所有社区都像张平他们那样，已将所有确诊患者送进医院。
Not all communities have sent all diagnosed patients to hospital, as Zhang Ping did.
硚口区一个1920户，5000人左右的小区，因为社区书记退休，一个社区人员感染，2月12日社区的7个确诊病人，全部在家，依旧没有送往医院。
The village of Zekou, a 1920 household of about 5,000 people, is still not in hospital because of the retirement of the community secretary and the infection of a community member, and seven confirmed patients from the 12 February community, all of whom were at home.
征用定点医院的床位依然在进行，由《武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部》下发的2020年25号文中，提到：“武汉市将在2月20日前，达到定点医院病床14000张，用来收治重症病人。
"The city of Wuhan will have 14,000 hospital beds by February 20 for the treatment of seriously ill patients," Wen said in communication No. 25 of 2020, issued by the Wuhan Municipal Headquarters for the Prevention and Control of Newly Crowded Pneumonia.
”武汉市2月20日预计达到的新增床位储备总数将达到10万张，除去定点医院收治重症病人的14000张之外，还有轻症点（方舱）床位30000张；集中隔离点床位56000张。
Wuhan, which on February 20 expects to reach a total of 100,000 new beds, has 30,000 light-point (square-bed) beds in addition to 14,000 in-patient designated hospitals, and 56,000 centralized quarantine beds.
一个让人感到有希望的现象是，武汉新增新冠肺炎的确诊数据在2月12日爆涨之后，此后三天，新增确诊数据急剧下降。
On a hopeful note, three days after the February 12 explosion in confirmed figures for Wuhan's new crown pneumonia, the number of new cases fell sharply.
2月13日降至3910例；14日降至1923例；15日是1548例；而治愈人数却在大幅增加，2月15日，国家卫生健康委员会党组成员、副主任、湖北省委常委王贺胜在国新办的发布会上介绍称，重症定点医院武汉金银潭医院和肺科医院出院率超过30%。
The number of cases fell to 3,910 on February 13, 1,923 on Feb. 14 and 1,548 on Feb. 15, while the number of cures increased dramatically, Wang He-sheng, a member and deputy director of the National Health Council's Standing Committee, told a news conference at the State Administration of Health on February 15.
△ 吴晔婷制图方舱医院也将迎来建立伊始第一个出院的高峰，2月15日下午，武汉客厅方舱医院首批17位患者出院，武汉大学中南医院副院长、武汉客厅方舱医院副院长李志强接受媒体采访时称：“最近几天应该会是方舱医院出院的第一波高峰期。
"The last few days should be the first wave of hospital discharge from Fang Nan Hospital in Wuhan," Wu selected the first batch of 17 patients to be discharged from the hospital in the afternoon of Feb. 15.
因为自2月7号开舱正式收治病人，已过去一周时间。
A week has passed since the official opening of the cabin on February 7.
很多病人经过治疗后，都处于稳定再到恢复的状态，等几天内几项检测客观指标达标后就会达到出院标准”。
After treatment, many patients are in a stable and then to the state of recovery, and so on a few days after the objective indicators will meet the discharge criteria.
还有许多一个个具体的希望逐渐出现。
There are also many concrete hopes that are emerging.
父亲去世，母亲病情危重的郑秀、郑涛姐弟，姐姐已在两天前被收治到第一医院，弟弟也去了隔离点。
His father died, his mother seriously ill Zheng Xiu, Zhengtao brother and sister, sister has been admitted to the first hospital two days ago, his brother also went to the quarantine point.
在火神山一度病危的母亲，昨天忽然“想吃饭，吃水果”。
In the mountain fire god once critically ill mother, yesterday suddenly "want to eat, eat fruit".
陈一君一度病危的父亲，2月8日开始接受瑞德西韦的双盲试验，随后逐渐退烧，虽然血氧尚未达标，但最危急的时刻已渡过。
Chen's once-critically ill father, who began a double-blind test on Feb. 8 with Rhetsevius, gradually began to develop a fever. Although the blood oxygen has not yet reached the standard, the most critical moment has passed.
在隔离点隔离了12天的陈一君，一直未发烧。
Chen Yijun, who was kept in isolation for 12 days, has not had a fever.
他刚做完核酸检测，如果结果是阴性，马上就可以走出隔离点。
He just finished his nucleic acid test, and if it turns out to be negative, he could get out of the isolation.
十天前的绝望，已开始慢慢消散。
The despair of ten days ago has begun to dissipate.
吴靖|撰稿微信号：1136352312王晨|统筹、撰稿微信号：2174127吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: 1136352312; Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated, written microsignals: 2174127 Wu selected and written microsignals: wytlucky19 Wang Jilu & # 124; Blame microsignals: Wangjilu006 We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉10万床位待命：从居家隔离到集中隔离的艰难纠偏。
Wuhan 100,000 beds stand by: from the home isolation to the difficult rectification of centralized isolation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉10万床位待命：从居家隔离到集中隔离的艰难纠偏";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & nbsp; 100, 000 beds on standby: Rigorous corrective & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "前期医疗社会资源客观不足，后期政策调整纠错过慢";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; late policy adjustments.
title: '武汉新冠肺炎四类人员集中隔离，为何这么难？',。
Why was it so difficult to separate Wuhan's New Crown Pneumonia with four categories of personnel?
subject_name: '八点健闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
