我也许能帮这一个，还有那一个 | 我的武汉日志。
I might be able to help with that, and with that & # 144; my Wuhan diary.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
若干年后回望，这一定是一段值得铭记的日子。
Looking back over the years, it must be a day worth remembering.
因为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，许多家庭无法团圆。
Due to the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, many families are unable to reunite.
疫情数据地图的每次刷新都令人揪心。
Each update of the epidemic data map is heartbreaking.
我们和千万武汉人在一起，这不只是一句安慰，因为没有人能够置身事外。
We are with tens of millions of Wuhan people, which is not only a comfort, because no one can stay out of the way.
之前，我们向用户征集这段时间的故事，鼓励大家写下属于自己的“武汉日志”。
Before, we collect the story of this period from the user, encourage everybody to write down belong to oneself "Wuhan diaries".
现在，我们挑选出其中的几篇，分享给大家。
Now, we select a few of them and share them with you.
医生们追求，有时去治愈、常常去帮助、总是去安慰。
Doctors pursue, sometimes cure, often help, and always comfort.
我们相信，尽可能分享有关此次疫情的事实，对他人就是一种安慰剂，能够帮助社会共克时艰。
We believe that sharing the facts about the epidemic as much as possible can be a placebo for others and help society overcome its difficulties.
如果你还有愿意记录下来的故事，欢迎继续发给我们，文字、图片、视频均可，如果您没有时间成文或拍摄，可提供线索并留下联系方式。
If you have any stories you would like to write down, please send them to us, text, pictures, videos, etc. If you do not have time to write or film, you can provide clues and contact information.
要求真实、原创，文字内容不少于1000字，发送时请注明署名及联系方式。
Require true, original, text content is no less than 1000 words, please send the signature and contact details.
中国青年报社征集邮箱：wuhanstory@126.com2月2日晚，武汉市同济医院，发热门诊里的患者们。
China Youth Daily collect mailboxes: wuhanstory @ 126.com. Feb. 2 evening, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, fever clinic patients.
中青报·中青网记者李峥苨/摄方露（化名）是一个34岁的武汉市民。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Zheng Zhen / Fengfang Lu (not his real name) is a 34-year-old citizen of Wuhan city.
自公婆确诊“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎”入院后，她开始通过微信群，组织“病友”展开“自救”。
After her parents-in-law admitted the coronavirus-infected pneumonia, she began organizing "self-help" through her microcosm.
每天，她会在群里及时发布官方信息，更新疫情防控进展的情况，回答群友对症状的问题。
Every day, she will release official information in the group, update the progress of disease prevention and control, answer the group of friends on symptoms.
她做了一份开放式表格，需要帮助的人可以将信息填入，有机会时，她会转发这些信息，不论需求是排队等待核酸检测，还是一张病床。
She created an open-ended form that people in need of help could fill in, and when she had the opportunity, she would forward the information, whether it was waiting for a nucleic acid test or a bed.
眼下，她和7岁的儿子生活在家里。
For now, she lives at home with her seven-year-old son.
丈夫因为接触过她的公婆，已经主动在酒店自我隔离两周。
The husband, who had been in contact with her in-laws, had voluntarily isolated himself at the hotel for two weeks.
除夕之前的那天，她曾做了一次“大采购”，之后，她和儿子没有出过家门。
On the day before New Year's Eve, she made a "shopping spree," after which she and her son stayed out of the house.
本文约3687字预计阅读时间10分钟作者 |方露这一切发生之前，我一点心理准备都没有。
About 3687 words is expected to take 10 minutes to read. Before all this happened, I wasn't at all psychologically prepared.
1月13日到16日，我带孩子参加了政府组织的免费冬令营活动，有滑雪、滑冰等冬季运动课程，我还给小孩报了室内滑雪，武汉很少下雪，孩子能长长见识。
From January 13 to 16, I took my children to the government-organized free winter sports activities, including skiing, skating, and other winter sports classes, I also children reported indoor skiing, Wuhan rarely snow, children can long-term insights.
1月17日，我看到了一篇文章，叫《武汉病毒纪事——2020年的第一场疫情》。
On January 17, I read an article called "Wuhan virus chronicle - the first outbreak in 2020."
1月18日，小孩的寒假课全部结束，老公问寒假去哪里玩？我白了他一眼，早干啥去了？现在想去国外旅游，来得及办签证吗？我提出神农架国际滑雪场的路线，老公嫌冷，不乐意。
January 18, the child's winter vacation classes are over, my husband asked where to play? I whitened his eyes, what early to do? Now want to travel abroad in time to do visa? I proposed Shennongjia international ski resort route, my husband is cold, unwilling.
1月19日晚上，我身体忽然感觉异样，还莫名地咳嗽了两声。
On the night of January 19, I suddenly felt strange and coughed twice.
如果是平时，咳两声不是很正常吗？但此时的这两声，居然让我想起之前看到的那篇文章。
If it is normal, coughing two sounds is not very normal? But at this time of these two sounds, actually let me think of the article I saw before.
睡前，老公说他有点发烧了，量体温37.2摄氏度，我有点惊讶，但很快觉得，新闻里的事，不会发生在自己身上。
Before going to bed, my husband said he had a fever, measuring 37.2 degrees Celsius. I was a bit surprised, but I soon felt that what was happening in the news would not happen to me.
1月20日，婆婆发来让我们注意“病毒感染”的消息。
On January 20th, my mother-in-law sent us a message calling our attention to the virus infection.
我心里依然惦记着去滑雪，发了个朋友圈，征集大家对“该不该出去玩”的意见。
I still think of going skiing and making a group of friends to solicit their opinions on whether to go out or not.
有人回复，算了，疫情严重太危险。
Somebody replied, well, the outbreak is too dangerous.
有的说，想玩就玩呗。
Some say they just play if they want to.
朋友鼓励我，自己的儿子自己负责，想怎么玩就怎么玩！这个答案正是我想要的。
My friends encourage me, my son is in charge of his own, how to play! This answer is exactly what I want.
做好决定，我给婆婆打电话告知，结果她说，公公发烧几天了，降不下来，自己也感觉不舒服，明天去社区开点药。
Make a decision, I call mother-in-law to inform, as a result, she said, my father-in-law has a fever for a few days, can not come down, he also feel uncomfortable, go to the community tomorrow to prescribe some medicine.
我回想这几天看到的新闻和网络文章，让婆婆不要随便对付，先去做检查，排除“那个病”的可能性。
I think back to the last few days to see the news and online articles, let mother-in-law do not casually deal with, first do a check-up, rule out the possibility of "that disease."
婆婆没有回答，显然还想再扛一下。
The mother-in-law made no reply, apparently wanting to carry it again.
老人家都是这样，平时有个头疼脑热的，都是自己开药。
Old people are like this, usually have a headache brain fever, are their own medicine.
他们觉得去医院花费高，随便检查一下也要花大几百元。
They think it's expensive to go to the hospital and it costs hundreds of yuan to check it out.
那天我开车出门办事，路上感觉特别疲倦。
I was so tired on the way out on errands that day.
等红灯的时候，甚至高架桥上车少的时候，我都能睡着两秒。
I was able to sleep for two seconds at red lights and even when there were fewer viaducts on board.
老公说他体温37.1摄氏度，还说同事和他妈妈因为病毒性肺炎住院了。
My husband said he had a temperature of 37.1 degrees Celsius and said his co-worker and his mother were hospitalized with viral pneumonia.
1月21日，老公心血来潮去菜场买了半只鸡，还随口讲了个“笑话”，说今天去买菜，有个摊位是空的，别的摊主说，“因为那个病关进去了撒”。
On January 21, my husband went to the market to buy half of the chicken, and casually told a "joke", said that today to buy vegetables, a booth is empty, other stall owners said, "because of that illness in Scatter."
当时，我们一点都没觉得这跟自己有什么关系。
At the time, we had no idea that this had anything to do with us.
鸡汤还没炖好，婆婆打电话来，说公公还没退烧。
Before the chicken soup was stewed, my mother-in-law called and said my father-in-law was still suffering from fever.
汤刚起锅，婆婆的电话又来了，问老公什么时候能去，显然是着急了。
Tang just started cooking pot, mother-in-law's call came again, asked her husband when he can go, is obviously anxious.
婆婆平时有什么事都一个人扛，很少让我们知道，也很少叫我们帮她，可见情况不妙。
Her mother-in-law usually do everything alone, rarely let us know, and rarely asked us to help her, can see the situation is not good.
老公赶过去了，谁知这一去，他也不能回来住了。
Husband hurried past, who knows this goes, he also can't come back to live.
当天夜里，老公焦急地打来电话，说带我公公去三医院做了检查，CT结果显示病毒性肺炎。
That night, my husband called anxiously, said to take my father-in-law to three hospitals for an examination, CT results showed viral pneumonia.
我让自己镇定下来，告诉他先带老人回家，两人睡两间房，“你也不要回来了，在爸妈家附近找个宾馆住，明天带妈妈去检查”。
I calmed myself down and told him to take the old man home first and sleep in two rooms. "You don't want to come back, either.
安顿好父母，半夜2点钟，他给我打来电话，带着哭腔问：“得这个病会不会死？”我说，没确诊，先不要想那么多，你要是倒了，谁送你爸妈去医院检查？要是我送你们3个人去医院，小孩怎么办？1月22日，婆婆做了检查，结果也是病毒性肺炎，但是不是传说中的“那个病”，需要用试剂盒进行核酸检测。
If you fail, who will take your parents to the hospital for a checkup? If I send three of you to the hospital, what will happen to the baby? On January 22, my mother-in-law had viral pneumonia, but it wasn't the legendary "disease" that required a DNA test in a kit.
那天，我把家里攒了一冬天没洗的毛衣外套、床单被套，高温洗涤、烘干，洗了整整一天，还有2桶没洗完。
I spent the whole day washing, drying and washing a sweater and sheets that I hadn't washed all winter, and two buckets.
我还刷了一整天的朋友圈和订阅号，把所有关于病毒性肺炎的文章全看了一遍，看得天昏地暗的，大概刷新闻，是我排解压力的一种方式吧，这样就没有时间担忧和害怕。
I also spent the whole day brushing friends and subscription numbers, looking at all the articles about viral pneumonia, and looking dimly at the news. It was a way for me to relieve my stress, so there was no time for worry and fear.
因为公公婆婆还没有确诊，我不敢跟别人说。
Because my mother-in-law has not been diagnosed, I dare not tell others.
我朋友圈里还有一些老人的朋友，万一检查结果不是“那个病”，以后街坊邻居都躲着我们走，多不好。
There are some old people's friends in my friends' circle, how bad it would be if the examination didn't turn out to be "that illness" and the neighborhood would avoid us later.
这时，疫情的严重程度，已经人尽皆知了，但身边的人中招，我们家可能是第一个，我的朋友都认为，这是一件遥远的事、别人家的事。
At this time, the severity of the epidemic, known to all, but the people around us, our family may be the first, my friends think that this is a distant matter, other people's affairs.
晚上，婆婆打来电话，听起来刚哭过。
In the evening, my mother-in-law called and it sounded like she had just cried.
她说害了儿子，不该让他去接送，把他拉下了水。
She said she had murdered her son and should not have let him pick him up and dragged him off the water.
老两口打算把攒了一辈子的积蓄都交给我，如果他们3个人过不了这一关，要我一定坚强起来，把小孩抚养长大。
The old couple plan to save all their life savings to me, if they three people can not pass this test, I must be strong enough to bring up the children.
我拼命对她说，检查结果中有漏洞，安慰她，说不定不是呢！老公一个人睡在宾馆，吓得睡不着，半夜又给我打来电话，哭着说，会不会以后就没有爸爸妈妈了。
My husband sleeps alone in the hotel and is too scared to sleep, I call me again in the middle of the night, crying and saying, won't there be any parents in the future?
我告诉他，让老人放心，他们才能一心一意好好治病，我们先把最坏的情况安排好，再考虑“未来”。
I told him to assure the old man that they would be able to cure him with all their might, and that we would plan for the worst before considering the future.
老公用力地嗯了一声。
The husband gave a hard hum.
我说，乖乖睡觉，如果你不好，他们就没有活下去的希望了，你一定要坚强，保护好自己，明天去做检查。
I said, obediently sleep, if you are not, they have no hope of living, you must be strong, protect yourself, tomorrow to do a check.
从那以后，我每天都要像这样安慰他们。
Since then, I have been comforting them like this every day.
1月23日，我继续洗头一天没洗完的衣服，让自己感觉正在做很多事。
On January 23, I continued to wash my laundry for the day, making myself feel like I was doing a lot of things.
如今回忆起来，却不知道自己到底忙了些什么。
Now I remember, but I don't know what I was busy with.
下午，我收到公公婆婆的两份确诊通知书，接着遇到了至今都困扰着一批又一批新冠肺炎患者的难题：没有床位。
In the afternoon, I received two notices of diagnosis from my parents-in-law, and then came up against the problem that is still plaguing many people with new crown pneumonia: no beds.
第一天去的三医院，第二天关闭了发热门诊。
The first day to the third hospital, the next day closed the fever clinic.
接着又去人民医院，发热门诊也关了。
Then I went to the People's Hospital and the fever clinic was closed.
婆婆说她早早留好了联系方式，又给七医院、九医院、武昌医院打电话，居然床位全满。
Mother-in-law said that she had left early contact information, and then to seven hospitals, nine hospitals, Wuchang Hospital, even full beds.
从这天开始，我在朋友圈重复发布求助信息。
From that day on, I repeatedly posted help messages in my circle of friends.
和我之前的情况一样，所有人都觉得我的经历很稀奇，“居然有发生在熟人身上的案例”。
As was the case before me, everyone found my experience strange, "there have been cases of acquaintances."
尽管我特意嘱咐不要慰问，还是接了一整个晚上的电话，大家都想帮助我这个不幸的家伙，以至于没有实质帮助的信息，我至今都没有回复。
Although I specifically asked not to sympathize, but also answered the phone all night, everyone wanted to help me this unfortunate guy, so that no substantive help information, I have not yet responded.
那时，我只关心哪里有床位，联系我的人有没有办法帮我搞到床位。
At the time, I was only concerned about where there were beds and whether anyone who contacted me could get me a bed.
听出对方爱莫能助，我甚至会不耐烦，心想，正忙着呢，多耽误事儿！我们并不是这一天才开始想办法找床位，从第一天拿到公公的确诊结果开始，老公就四处找人帮忙，当时没想过床位这么难。
It was not until that day that we began to try to find a bed, and from the first day we got the result of my father-in-law's diagnosis, my husband went around looking for help.
谁知道3天过去了，我们翻找了一切可以联系的资源，所有熟人都反馈，这回一点办法都没有。
Who knows, three days later, we rummaged through all the resources we could contact, and all the acquaintances gave feedback, and this time there was nothing we could do.
婆婆焦虑地给我打电话说，真是走投无路了。
My mother-in-law called me anxiously and said there was no way out.
到了23日夜里，经过一整天的努力，终于有两个医院的医生说，我公公婆婆算重症，帮我们想办法。
On the night of the 23rd, after a whole day's hard work, finally two hospital doctors said, my father-in-law is serious, help us find a way.
24日凌晨，婆婆打电话来，说其中一个医生联系不上了。
In the early morning of the 24th, my mother-in-law called to say that one of the doctors was unreachable.
我安慰她，没关系，还有一个呢。
I'll comfort her. it's okay. there's another one.
很快，仅剩的那个医生也表示，没办法了。
Soon, the only doctor left said there was nothing more he could do.
我还是很感谢，至少那天晚上，我睡了一个安稳觉。
I still appreciate it. At least that night, I had a good night's sleep.
1月24日，除夕，就在我们心灰意冷的时候，突然出现了两个床位。
On New Year's Eve, on 24 January, just as we were disheartened, two beds suddenly appeared.
我感受不到一点过年的味道，没有人张罗年饭，一家人七零八落地隔离在不同的地方，每个人都感觉格外凄凉。
I can not feel the taste of the New Year, no one Zhang Luo rice, the family scattered in different places, everyone feels particularly bleak.
我和小孩在家里，没有看春晚，之前准备好的年货，至今都没有心情吃。
I and the children at home, did not watch the Spring Festival Gala, prepared before the New Year, so far have no mood to eat.
还记得半个月前，我和老公偎在被窝里看《庆余年》，吧嗒吧嗒吃了一个晚上，老公笑我一个人吃完了3斤皇帝柑，我笑老公吃花生米的样子，像个米缸里的老鼠。
I remember half a month ago, my husband and I nestled under the bedclothes and watched "Celebration Years". After a night, my husband laughed at me for eating three catties of tangerine alone.
但除夕夜，陪着我的只有疲倦和满身的酸痛。
But New Year's Eve, with me only tired and full of pain.
还好老公拿到检查结果，“阴性”。
Fortunately, her husband got the test results, "negative."
我不用去检查了，因为工作忙，我半个月没去过公公婆婆那边了。
I don't have to check, because work is busy, I haven't been to my father-in-law's house in half a month.
自从21日老公出门之后，我一直处于高速运转的状态。
Since my husband left home on the 21st, I have been running at a high speed.
除夕之后，我好好睡了两天。
I slept well for two days after New Year's Eve.
公公婆婆住进医院我就放心了，包吃包住，治病有医生在，没什么担心的，我连病情都懒得问，觉得必然会越来越好。
My parents-in-law live in the hospital I feel relieved that the package, a doctor in the treatment, nothing to worry about, I even lazy to ask, feel bound to get better and better.
接着我得知，公公入院之后高烧不退，人都烧糊涂了，婆婆急得一晚上没睡好。
Then I learned that after my father-in-law high fever, people are burning muddle, mother-in-law anxious all night did not sleep well.
后来，公公的体温终于降下来，总算让人放下一颗悬着的心。
Later, my father-in-law's temperature finally came down, finally let people down a hanging heart.
婆婆一直精神百倍，一点都不像生病的人，医生原本要给她减药准备出院，她却持续高烧起来。
Mother-in-law has always been in a good mood, not at all like a sick person. The doctor was supposed to give her some medicine to get out of the hospital, but she kept burning high.
新型冠状病毒难以捉摸，连医生都搞不清楚，到底一个完整的病程应该是什么样子。
The new coronavirus is so elusive that even the doctors do not know what a complete course of action should look like.
婆婆烧了2天，体温开始回落，我以为总可以放心了，结果老公始终感觉胸闷，又去查了一次CT，却被怀疑肺癌早期……这一天天跌宕起伏，编剧都不敢这么写。
My mother-in-law burned for two days, the temperature began to drop, I thought I can always relax, the husband always feeling chest tightness, but a CT, was suspected of lung cancer in the early days...
1月27日，久未联系的武汉理工大学校友发来消息，我点开一看，竟说她老公“高度疑似”。
January 27, long-uncontacted Wuhan University of Technology alumni sent a message, I opened a look and said her husband is "highly suspect."
她老公也是我的校友，他们女儿的照片，我经常在朋友圈看到，真漂亮啊，遗传了妈妈的少数民族基因。
Her husband is also my alumni, their daughter's photos, I often see in the circle of friends, really beautiful ah, inherited my mother's minority genes.
同样是做母亲的，我心里始终放不下他们。
The same mother, I can not put them in my heart.
那时，核酸检测试剂盒很紧缺，就像在一个百人群里发5个红包，你可能永远都抢不到。
At the time, nucleic acid test kits were in short supply, like giving out five red packets to a hundred people, and you probably would never get them.
因为我前期发布了求助信息，很多人都知道我家有病患，几乎每天都有认识或者不认识的朋友来询问我，这个症状是不是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，那个症状要不要紧。
Because I posted the help message, many people know that my family has a patient, almost every day know or do not know friends to ask me, this symptom is not the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, that symptom does not matter.
那种面对未知、生死攸关的心情，我感同身受。
I sympathize with the feeling that faces the unknown and life-or-death.
我等不及别人来告诉我，这个病是什么样的？将来会怎样？下一步该怎么做？没有人知道确切的答案。
I can't wait to be told what the disease is like? What will happen in the future? What next? No one knows for sure.
作为亲历者，我们就是信息的最中心，在各种纷纷扰扰的谣言、辟谣和反辟谣声中，只有我们经历过的才是真的。
As firsthand, we are the centre of information, and of all the buzz of rumors, rumors and counter-rumors, only what we have experienced is true.
武汉封城后，一些人还没等到确诊，就永远离开了我们。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, some people have not yet been diagnosed, left us forever.
要战胜可怕的病毒，必须自救，也必须团结起来。
To defeat the terrible virus, we must save ourselves and unite.
我迅速建立了病友群，我希望能从别人那里获得我想要的信息，也希望能将自己掌握的资源分发给他们。
I quickly set up a group of patients, I hope to get the information I want from others, and I hope to be able to distribute the resources at their disposal.
我不能眼睁睁看着大家听天由命。
I can't let people resign themselves to fate.
每天，我花很多时间来带动群友，希望他们能积极自救。
Every day, I spend a lot of time trying to get people to help themselves.
每天醒来就想到群里几个人还没有做核酸检测。
Wake up every day thinking that several people in the group had not been tested for nucleic acids.
我脑海里始终想着一个有名的“鸡汤故事”——有个小男孩在海滩捡鱼，然后把鱼扔回海里，大人说，你这样帮不了所有的鱼。
I kept in mind the famous chicken soup story of a little boy picking fish on the beach and throwing them back into the sea. You can't help all the fish.
小男孩说，是的，但是我能帮到这一只，这一只，还有这一只……中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
The little boy said, Yes, but I can help this one, this one, and this one... The China Youth Daily, Zhongqing Online, a micro-mail editor.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我也许能帮这一个，还有那一个 | 我的武汉日志。
I might be able to help with that, and with that & # 144; my Wuhan diary.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我也许能帮这一个，还有那一个 | 我的武汉日志";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I may be able to help with that, and that at least & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我不能眼睁睁看着大家听天由命。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I can't watch everyone resign themselves to fate.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
