疫袭黄冈：从确诊到住院，短缺不止武汉。
From diagnosis to hospitalization, Wuhan is not the only shortage.
李玉楼。
Yulou Li.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医护人员为病人治疗。
January 24, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital in the intensive care unit, hospital staff for patients.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共2789字，阅读大约需要6分钟“黄冈市19日晚间获得了第一批试剂盒，检测过程需要两天时间，试剂盒数量有限，第一批主要分给了主城区内定点医院。
The first batch of kits was obtained on the night of the 19th in Huanggang city. The process took two days and the number of kits was limited. The first batch was given to designated hospitals in the main city
”黄冈市中心医院发热门诊的一名医生告诉南方周末记者，他是2019年12月31日通过网传的武汉市卫健委文件得知武汉出现不明原因肺炎，2020年1月10日被告知黄冈出现疑似病例。
A doctor at the fever clinic at Huanggang Central Hospital told Southern Weekend that he had been informed of an unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan on December 31, 2019, via a Web-based Wuhan Health Protection Commission document, and was told Huanggang had a suspected case on January 10, 2020.
距武汉78公里的黄冈市与武汉联系紧密，高铁最快仅需要27分钟即可到达，百度地图提供的数据显示，武汉封城的前三天，黄冈均位居武汉出行目的地第二位，占比13%左右。
The city of Huanggang, 78 kilometers from Wuhan, is closely connected to Wuhan, which takes as little as 27 minutes to reach, and Baidu map shows that during the first three days of Wuhan, Huanggang ranked second in terms of travel destinations, accounting for about 13 percent.
本文首发于南方周末未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李玉楼南方周末实习生 龚柔善责任编辑 | 吴筱羽2020年1月20日，出现咳嗽、乏力等症状后的第五天，80后患者张庆住进了黄冈市中医院，此前他进行了两轮血栓和CT检查，其间，他一直住在医院附近的酒店里，自行和家人隔离。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; South Weekend reporter Li Yu-lou & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这天之前，关于新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎已经出现，但并未得到许多关注，张庆的诊断书上的诊断结果为“病毒性肺炎”。
Pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection, has emerged before that day, but has not received much attention. Zhang's diagnosis was "viral pneumonia."
“医院此前一直没有床位，第二次CT显示肺部炎症比较严重，医生想办法安排了一个床位。
"The hospital had no beds until now, and the second CT showed severe inflammation of the lungs.
”1月23日晚，张庆妻子在电话里告诉南方周末记者，丈夫当天进行了核酸试剂检测，目前还在等待结果。
In the evening of January 23, Zhang's wife told Southern Weekend that her husband had been tested for nucleic acid reagents on the same day and was awaiting the results.
核酸试剂检测是确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的重要环节，但武汉周边城市的医院早前一直没有得到用于检测的试剂盒，客观上导致这些城市一直没有确诊病例报告。
Detection of nucleic acid reagents is an important link in the diagnosis of pneumonia for the new coronavirus infection, but hospitals around Wuhan have not been provided with test kits for testing, which objectively results in no confirmed cases being reported in these cities.
《财新》此前援引蕲春县人民政府县长詹才红在1月20日全县病毒性肺炎防控大会上的讲话称：“截至1月19日，黄冈市病毒性肺炎病例已达到109例”，而直至1月21日，黄冈市才首次披露了12例确诊病例。
"As of January 19, there were 109 cases of viral pneumonia in Huanggang city," said the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County People's Government on January 20. "Only on January 21 did Huanggang reveal its first 12 confirmed cases.
“黄冈市19日晚间获得了第一批核酸试剂盒，检测过程需要两天时间，试剂盒数量有限，第一批主要分给了主城区内定点医院。
"The first batch of nucleic acid kits was obtained in Huanggang on the night of the 19th. It took two days and the number of kits was limited.
”黄冈市中心医院发热门诊的一名医生告诉南方周末记者，他是2019年12月31日通过网传的武汉市卫健委文件得知武汉出现不明原因肺炎，2020年1月10日被告知黄冈出现疑似病例。
A doctor at the fever clinic at Huanggang Central Hospital told Southern Weekend that he had been informed of an unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan on December 31, 2019, via a Web-based Wuhan Health Protection Commission document, and was told Huanggang had a suspected case on January 10, 2020.
1月25日早间，黄冈市通报新增病例52例，这是黄冈市第二次通报新增病例，此前一次是在1月21日，黄冈市成为除武汉外首个通报出现确诊病例的湖北城市。
In the early morning of January 25, Huanggang City reported 52 new cases, the second new case reported in Huanggang, the first city to report a confirmed case outside Wuhan on January 21.
距武汉78公里的黄冈市与武汉联系紧密，高铁最快仅需要27分钟即可到达，百度地图提供的数据显示，武汉封城的前三天，黄冈均位居武汉出行目的地第二位，占比13%左右。
The city of Huanggang, 78 kilometers from Wuhan, is closely connected to Wuhan, which takes as little as 27 minutes to reach, and Baidu map shows that during the first three days of Wuhan, Huanggang ranked second in terms of travel destinations, accounting for about 13 percent.
1月23日24时，黄冈宣布暂停公交、长途客运及火车站的离开通道，此前数小时，已有包括鄂州、仙桃在内的多个湖北城市宣布封城。
At 2400 hours on January 23, Huang Gang suspended public transport, long-distance passenger transport and train stations, hours after Hubei cities, including Huizhou and Xiantao, were declared closed.
目前，黄冈下辖的黄州、团风、蕲春、黄梅等多个区县定点医疗机构的隔离床位均出现紧张，发热门诊量也明显增加，症状轻微的患者会被建议居家隔离治疗。
At present, the isolation beds in the designated medical institutions of Huanggang Prefecture, Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon and Agkistrodon are under stress. The number of calorific clinics has also increased significantly. Patients with mild symptoms are advised to stay at home for treatment.
1月24日晚间，蕲春县人民医院数名医护人员均在电话里告诉南方周末记者，该院于23日下午得到少量试剂盒，被专家组认定为高度疑似的患者，可以进行检测工作，但仍需将检测结果上报省市两级疾控后方能宣布确诊。
On the evening of 24 January, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital told Southern Weekend News by telephone that the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Hospital was given a small number of kits on the afternoon of 23 January.
1如临大敌一周张庆近期并无武汉旅行史，他上一次去武汉还是在2019年10月，此后一直待在黄冈市区。
1 If the enemy Zhang Qing week did not Wuhan recent travel history, he last went to Wuhan in October 2019, has been in Huanggang District.
2020年1月15日，他感觉身体不适，次日开始发烧后前往黄冈市中医院检查。
On 15 January 2020, feeling unwell, he started having a fever the next day and went to Huanggang Hospital for a check-up.
“当时医院已经如临大敌，尽管还没有隔离病区，医院开辟了一层楼来收治疑似病患，估摸有五六十张床位。
"The hospital was so close to the enemy that even though there was no quarantine area, it opened a floor to treat suspected patients, with an estimated 50-60 beds.
”张庆妻子告诉南方周末记者，验血、拍片后，医生得知张庆近期没有去过武汉后，建议其先在家自行隔离观察，几天后再拍个CT看看情况。
"Zhang Qing's wife told Southern Weekend reporter that after the blood test and the film, the doctor learned that Zhang Hing had not been to Wuhan recently.
三天后，张庆感觉呼吸明显困难，再次前往中医院检查，这次被医生判断为病毒性肺炎，要求其自我隔离并排队等候床位。
Three days later, Zhang, feeling visibly breathless, again went to a Chinese hospital for a check-up. This time he was diagnosed with viral pneumonia and asked to isolate himself and wait for his bed.
等至1月20日上午，张庆从医院旁边的酒店搬入了医院新开辟的呼吸道病区。
By the morning of January 20, Zhang had moved from the hotel next to the hospital to the hospital's newly opened respiratory tract.
“当时还不叫隔离病区，但医生会告知看护家属风险，建议家属做足防护措施，但仍有一小半家属没有戴口罩。
"It wasn't called a quarantined area yet, but the doctors told the family about the risks and advised them to take adequate precautions, but less than half of them were still not wearing masks.
”张庆妻子介绍。
"Zhang Qing's wife introduced.
就在张庆搬进医院的1月20日，武汉确诊病例激增，此后整个病区的气氛一下紧张起来，看护家属也明显减少，几乎没有不戴口罩的人。
Following a sharp rise in the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan on January 20, when Zhang moved into the hospital, tensions rose throughout the area and care for family members declined markedly, with few people wearing masks.
黄冈市中心医院的医护人员告诉南方周末记者，“黄冈市19日晚间获得了第一批试剂盒，检测过程需要两天时间，试剂盒数量有限，第一批主要分给了主城区内定点医院。
"Huanggang City 19 night to obtain the first batch of kits, the test process took two days, a limited number of kits, the first major distribution within the main city designated hospitals," hospital staff told Southern Weekend.
”得知消息的张庆妻子向主治医生询问能否进行核酸检测确诊，“医生告诉我试剂盒数量非常有限，只能按照疑似程度进行分配，中医院的病患病情相对较轻。
"Zhang, who learned of the news, asked the attending doctor if a nucleic acid test could be done." The doctors told me the kits were very limited and could only be distributed according to the suspected extent.
医生安慰我说，确诊与否治疗方法都是类似的。
The doctors reassured me that the treatments for diagnosis and treatment were similar.
”张庆和妻子信任医生的判断，如今，他们一心等着核酸检测结果。
Zhang and his wife trust the doctors' judgment and are now waiting for the nucleic acid test results.
南方周末记者获得的信息显示，在隔离病区开辟之前，黄冈市中心医院发生了医护人员疑似感染。
Southern Weekend reporters obtained information that before the quarantined area opened, Huanggang City Central Hospital in the suspected infection occurred.
1月17日，黄冈市某眼科医院医生徐辉接到中心医院朋友打来的电话。
January 17, Huanggang City, an ophthalmologist Xu Hui received a call from the central hospital friends.
“他上来就让我戴好口罩，我问了几句才知道是中心医院的医护人员出现了感染。
"He came up and told me to put on my mask, and I asked a few questions about the infection in the staff at the central hospital.
”据21日的公报，黄冈市12例确诊患者中有5例医护人员，其中一名医生，四名护士。
The report said five of the 12 confirmed cases in Huanggang included a doctor and four nurses.
上述中心医院医生向南方周末记者证实，5例确诊的医护人员均来自该院。
The above-mentioned Central Hospital doctor confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter that the 5 confirmed cases of medical personnel are from the hospital.
而该院第一例疑似感染的工作人员出现在1月10日，是一名挂号员。
The hospital's first suspected case of infection occurred on January 10, a registered clerk.
事实上，此后医院内便已如临大敌，防控升级，但家住在中心医院附近的林杉却未有丝毫察觉。
In fact, the hospital has since been an enemy of the escalation of control, but the family living near the central hospital did not notice the fir.
林杉1月18日从外地回到黄冈，彼时黄冈市区没有任何异常，大街上看不到一个戴口罩的人。
The trees returned to Huanggang on January 18, when there was no sign of any abnormality in the city and no one wearing a mask was visible on the street.
直至1月20日下午，林杉在前往中心医院对面药房买药时发现药店柜员戴起了口罩，次日大街上才出现零星戴口罩的行人。
Until the afternoon of Jan. 20, when he went to the pharmacy opposite the central hospital to buy medicine, he noticed that the drugstore teller had put on a mask and that only sporadic pedestrians wearing masks appeared on the street the next day.
1月24日早间，南方周末记者从黄冈市中心医院医务人员处获悉，该院目前可以进行核酸试剂检测，建议疑似患者前往该院发热门诊诊断。
On the morning of 24 January, Southern Weekend reporter was informed by medical staff of Huanggang Central Hospital that the hospital was now able to test nucleic acid reagents and that the suspect should go to the hospital for a clinical diagnosis of fever.
黄冈市另外两家定点发热门诊均表示暂时无法进行核酸试剂检测。
Two other sentinel fever clinics in Huanggang City said they were temporarily unable to test for nucleic acid reagents.
据《人物》1月23日报道，第一批获批生产试剂盒的厂商至少已经生产了十多万份试剂盒，而目前仅有一千余例确诊病例，医院一线的试剂盒却异常短缺，运输和分配瓶颈凸显。
The first batch of manufacturers approved to manufacture kits has produced at least 100,000 kits, compared with more than 1,000 confirmed cases, while there is an unusual shortage of first-line kits and bottlenecks in transportation and distribution.
“试剂盒主要由各级疾控进行分配，早期检测、确诊工作均由疾控完成，最近几天授权给部分三甲医院，但仍需将检测结果上报后由省疾控专家确诊发布。
"The kit is mainly distributed by disease control at all levels. Early detection and diagnosis have been carried out by disease control. In recent days, authorization has been given to some triple-A hospitals.
”上述中心医院医生说。
"said the doctor at the hospital.
2县乡医院承压更早的疑似病例则有明显的武汉接触史。
Suspected cases in county and township hospitals under pressure earlier had a clear history of Wuhan contact.
1月14日，一个赴武汉参会的团风县代表团返回后，数名成员出现不适入院，其中有两位病患被列为重症。
On 14 January, on the return of a delegation from Tuanfeng County to Wuhan, several members of the delegation were hospitalized, two of whom were classified as critically ill.
随后几天中，部分病患病情好转出院，但有多位看护人员出现症状，并被确诊为“病毒性肺炎”。
In the following days, some patients were released from the hospital better, but a number of caregivers appeared symptoms, and was diagnosed with "viral pneumonia."
一位患者家属告诉南方周末记者，“患者病情尚不稳定，目前被告知无法进行核酸试剂检测。
"The patient is not in stable condition and has been told that nucleic acid reagents cannot be tested," a patient's family told Southern Weekend.
”团风县是黄冈市下辖距武汉最近的区县，团风县防疫指挥部24日早间告诉南方周末记者，团风县目前没有确诊病例，无法向记者提供疑似病例人数。
"Tuanfeng County is the city of Huanggang jurisdiction from Wuhan's nearest district county, Tuanfeng County epidemic prevention command told Southern Weekend reporter on the morning of 24, Tuanfeng County there are no confirmed cases, can not provide reporters with the number of suspected cases.
南方周末记者从团风县人民医院隔离病区多名患者家属处了解到，该院隔离病区有四十余名病患，23日起，部分病房开始加床。
Southern Weekend reporter from the Duanfeng County People's Hospital isolation from the patient's family learned that the hospital isolation area of more than 40 patients, starting 23, some wards began to add beds.
“尚无确诊病例”和“多名隔离病患”之间的差距，很大程度上同样来自试剂盒和检测权的有无。
The gap between "undiagnosed cases" and "multiple patients in isolation" is also largely due to the availability of test kits and testing rights.
团风县人民医院一名医护人员24日早上也告诉南方周末记者，目前该院隔离病床非常紧张，只能优先满足重症患者，建议症状轻微的患者在家自我隔离。
A hospital staff of Tulianfeng County People's Hospital told Southern Weekend reporter on the morning of 24, the hospital isolation bed is very tight, can only give priority to patients with serious illness, recommended that patients with mild symptoms self-isolation at home.
“未被确诊的患者在隔离病区反而容易交叉感染。
"Patients who are not diagnosed are more likely to become cross-infected in isolated areas.
”早前公布有11名疑似患者的蕲春县近日也迎来病患激增。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County, which has reported 11 suspected cases, is also experiencing a sharp increase in cases.
该县共有3家定点医院，在黄冈下辖各县中数量居首，但均出现床位紧张，保障医务人员安全的防护服、护目镜等医疗物资也均出现紧张。
There are three designated hospitals in the county, the largest number in Huanggang Prefecture, but there is a shortage of beds, medical supplies such as protective clothing and goggles to ensure the safety of medical personnel are also strained.
1月24日，蕲春县人民医院的一名医护人员告诉南方周末记者，该院在两周前接诊了首位疑似感染新型冠状病毒的患者，发热患者接诊量在21日出现激增，23日下午获得了用于确诊的核酸试剂盒，“但数量非常有限”。
On January 24, a Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Peoples Hospital told Southern Weekend that the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Hospital had visited the first patient suspected to be infected with the new coronavirus two weeks ago.
（应受访者要求，张庆、林杉为化名）。
(At the request of respondents, Zhang Qing, Lin Sui as an alias).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫袭黄冈：从确诊到住院，短缺不止武汉。
From diagnosis to hospitalization, Wuhan is not the only shortage.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫袭黄冈：从确诊到住院，短缺不止武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; from diagnosis to hospitalization.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
