16000个电话开辟的生命热线。
16,000 telephone hotlines.
林森菜 马延君。
Lin Sen Cuisine Ma Yanjun.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
新冠肺炎疫情的医疗物资告急，各地纷纷发出求助信息。
New crown pneumonia outbreak of medical supplies are in urgent need of help from all over the world.
与此同时，海外华人行动起来在异国采购紧缺物资，却苦于没有渠道运抵国内抗疫一线。
At the same time, overseas Chinese who have moved to source scarce supplies in foreign countries have struggled to find a way to get to the mainland.
一条绿色通道出现，为救援物资架起跨洋的生命运输线。
A green passage emerged, setting up a transoceanic lifeline for relief supplies.
故事时间：2020年故事地点：海外、湖北驶向武汉的货车1月27日上午10点多，石令开着白色货车沪BCW936，远远望到了汉口高速出口。
2007-9-25 10: 50 Hubei wagons bound for Wuhan Jan 27, more than 10 a.m., Shi Ling in a white van Shanghai BCW 936, far away to Hankou High Speed Exit.
这是他带着一批海外捐赠的医疗物资，从上海跋涉到武汉的第二天。
It was the day after he trudged from Shanghai to Wuhan with a shipment of medical supplies donated from overseas.
看见汉口的灯牌，他知道路程只剩最后十几公里。
Seeing Hankou lights, he knew that the distance was only about a dozen kilometers away.
石令在上海浦东一家百世物流网点工作，平时主管分拨流水线。
Shi Ling in Shanghai Pudong a hundred times logistics network work, usually in charge of the allocation line.
1月25日晚，他在工作群中看到一则消息，网点需要运输一批给武汉的物资，招募一名志愿司机，他报了名。
On the night of January 25, he saw a message in his work group that a network needed to transport supplies to Wuhan and recruit a volunteer driver.
妻子不舍又不能挽留，难受得落泪，要求跟车也被石令拒绝了。
Unable to keep his wife, grieved to tears, asked for the car was also refused by the stone order.
第二天，石令独自驾驶着货车上路。
The next day, Shi Ling drove the lorry on his own.
车上的货物包括N95口罩480个、护目镜1560副、防护服1122套，是由武汉大学大纽约地区校友会和美国华人社会联合会从海外捐回的物资。
The cargoes, which include 480 N95 masks, 1,560 goggles and 1,122 suits of protective clothing, were donated from overseas by the Wuhan University Alumni Association of Greater New York and the Chinese Community Federation of America.
它们被装在大瓦楞纸箱里，由海关打了封条，放在荷载8吨的小货车上，稀松地占去一半的货厢。
They were packed in large corrugated cartons, sealed by customs and placed on 8-ton pickup trucks, which thinly occupied half of the freight boxes.
石令困惑为什么不把车装满了，老板告诉他：疫情紧急。
Stone puzzled why the car did not fill up, the boss told him: the emergency situation.
他是菜鸟救援“绿色通道”整条输送线路的最后一环，后续的物资源源不断，此行也有探路的用处。
He is the rookie rescue "green channel" the last part of the transmission line, follow-up supplies continue to flow, this trip is also useful for road exploration.
图|石令和他的白色货车石令随身携带几份文书，上面写明这批医疗物资的清单明细、驾驶车辆及司机身份信息。
Shi Ling and his white van stone order carry with them several papers listing the details of the medical supplies, the vehicle and the driver's identity.
一路上遇到拦路检查，他就掏出这几张文书和身份证，核对放行。
Along the way encountered the road inspection, he took out a few papers and identity cards, check the release.
从汉口下高速，货车沪BCW936驶进了武汉城前最后一个关卡。
From Hankou under the high-speed, goods vehicles Shanghai BCW 936 into Wuhan city before the last checkpoint.
路口的检验检疫工作人员示意石令打开箱子，想核查里面是否为医疗物资再放行。
At the junction of the inspection and quarantine staff motioned Stone to open the box to check whether the inside for the re-release of medical supplies.
石令不敢直接答应，封条是在上海接货时海关贴的，他怕拆坏了，到武汉后受赠人质疑他私自拆封偷走物资。
Shi Ling dare not directly agree, the seal is in Shanghai when the goods were posted, he was afraid to break, after Wuhan grantee questioned him unsealed stolen goods.
左右为难下，他征得同意，拍下拆封过程，发到了公司工作群，又给绿色通道志愿者的沟通群发了一遍存证。
In a dilemma, he got permission to photograph the process of opening and unsealing, sent to the company working group, and to the Green Channel volunteer communication group again issued a certificate.
还没进入武汉，石令已经感受到周边医疗物资紧缺。
Has not entered Wuhan, Shi Ling has felt a shortage of medical supplies around.
武汉的工作人员都戴着口罩、套着防护服，只有说话的时候才能分清男女，重装下，他们笨拙地检查、签字。
Wuhan staff are wearing masks, wearing protective clothing, only when talking can distinguish men and women, re-installed, they clumsily checked, signed.
相比之下，石令戴着一层N95口罩，穿着休闲服和夹克，他觉得自己的防护单薄，像在冬日里只穿短袖短裤，瞬间紧张了起来。
In contrast, Shi Ling, wearing a N95 mask, casual clothes and a jacket, felt vulnerable, like wearing short-sleeved shorts on a winter day.
趁工作人员检查完货箱帮他把货箱门合上，石令找地方洗了手，在进武汉前换了个干净的N95口罩，继续向武汉开去。
After the staff checked the box to help him close the door, stone order to find a place to wash hands, before entering Wuhan for a clean N95 mask, continue to drive to Wuhan.
捐赠者们事实上，在石令正式出任务的前一天，1月25日，“菜鸟救援物资绿色通道”才刚刚搭建完毕。
Donors, in fact, had just finished setting up a "green passage for novice aid" on January 25, the day before the official Shi Ling mission.
1月最后一周，新闻开始播报湖北医疗物资紧缺，社交媒体上越来越多定点医院求募口罩、防护服、护目镜。
In the last week of January, news began to broadcast a shortage of medical supplies in Hubei, with more and more hospitals on social media seeking masks, protective clothing and goggles.
得知消息后，身在海外的人们开始行动起来，希望能够为国内输送救援物资。
After learning the news, people abroad began to act, hoping to be able to send relief supplies for the country.
阿里菜鸟关注到这些物资存在运输困难，主动建立了一条“绿色通道”。
Concerned about the difficulty of transporting the goods, the Ali rookie took the initiative to create a "green passage."
与司机石令不同，菜鸟客服志愿者“若玉”是这条通道的第一环。
Unlike the driver stone order, rookie customer service volunteer "Ruoyu" is the first ring of this passage.
热线客服收集记录捐赠者的诉求后，将由她负责第一道回访。
After collecting and recording the claims of the donor, the hotline will be responsible for the first round of visits.
一个在加拿大打拼多年，开了一家加油站的华裔男人，把加油站库存的防护服尽数翻出。
A Chinese man who had spent years in Canada running a gas station turned out all the protective clothing he had in stock.
之后他拨通了供应商的电话，答应以双倍价格，收购供应商没来得及卖给其他顾客的货，最终凑了516套防护服，想寄回国内捐给抗击疫情的医务人员手上。
He then dialed the supplier, promising to double the price of the 516 suits he had not sold to other customers, and sent them back home to health workers fighting the epidemic.
在飘着雪的异国，直到物流上门前夜，男人还继续四处求购防护服。
Men continue to shop for protective clothing in exotic, snowy places until the logistics of the night before and after.
一名身在迪拜的中国导游接通“若玉”的热线前，已经托归国旅行团，以随身行李的携带方式往国内运输了几批自己筹集的口罩，捐到了抗疫一线。
Before putting through Ruoyu's hotline, a Chinese tour guide in Dubai donated several batches of self-collected face masks to the country on a hand-carried package.
而随着国际旅行团停摆、迪拜飞往中国的航班逐渐停飞，那名导游也找到了“若玉”，想通过绿色通道把物资送往国内：“这些是我最后的努力了。
As international tours stopped and Dubai's flight to China ground to a halt, the guide also found Ruoyu, who wanted to send goods to China via the Green Channel: "These are my last efforts.
”春节期间从意大利回国探亲的张女士拨通了热线。
Ms Zhang, who is visiting her family from Italy during the Spring Festival, dialed the hotline.
她因封城无法回意大利工作，但这不是她接入热线的诉求——她在意大利联系到口罩生产厂家，想知道如何将这些口罩送到定点医院的医务人员手里。
She was unable to return to Italy to work because of the blockade, but this was not her request to access the hotline - she contacted the mask manufacturer in Italy to find out how to deliver the masks to the medical staff at the designated hospital.
她希望找到一个不需要长时间周转、存放的渠道，到了武汉就送到一线医护人员手中。
She hopes to find a long-term turnover, storage channels, to Wuhan on the hands of front-line medical personnel.
面对每个捐赠人，若玉首先要跟对方确认，是否能满足绿色通道的使用条件，告知对方需要准备的文件，并帮忙对接负责关务和国际物流的志愿者。
In front of each donor, Ruoyu first needs to confirm with the other party if he can meet the conditions for the use of the Green Channel, inform the other side of the need to prepare documents, and help dock the volunteers in charge of customs and international logistics.
高峰期时，她每天需要回访近40位求助的捐赠人。
At peak times, she needs to visit nearly 40 aid donors every day.
若玉的孩子刚1岁，每天晚上9点，她边哄孩子入睡，边用电话或微信开始这些工作，有时直到凌晨才能休息。
Ruoyu, whose child is just one year old, coaxed her children to sleep at 9: 00 each evening and began these tasks by telephone or by microphone, sometimes until the wee hours of the morning.
图 | 若玉抱着熟睡的孩子在工作通过文字和声音与人打交道，若玉遇到过各种性格的捐赠者。
Rou Yu, who carries her sleeping child through words and sounds at work, has met donors of every character.
那位张女士是个做实事的人。
That lady Zhang is a man of business.
当得知个人不能作为捐赠主体时，张女士立刻问若玉：是否可以用口罩生产商的名义，或其它社会组织捐出。
When she learned that she could not be the donor, Ms. Zhang immediately asked Ruoyu if she could donate it in the name of the mask manufacturer or other social organizations.
若玉提醒她，那样以后捐赠者名单就不会出现她的名字。
Ruyu reminded her that her name would not appear on the list of donors later.
张女士感谢若玉提醒她，并安慰若玉这没有关系，只要物资能被医护人员用上其它都无所谓。
Zhang thanked Ruoyu for reminding her and comforting Ruoyu. It didn't matter as long as the supplies could be used by medical staff.
一位中年商人告诉若玉，他在印度尼西亚买到一批医疗物资，想接通绿色通道，将物资捐给浙江一医院。
A middle-aged businessman told Ruoyu that he had bought a lot of medical materials in Indonesia and wanted to connect the Green Channel to a hospital in Zhejiang Province.
若玉猜那是位性急又高效的先生，购买物资前，竟然已经跟医院确认过这批物资医院愿意接收，帮志愿者省去了一部分与受捐方沟通的时间。
Ruoyu guessed that he was a quick and efficient gentleman. Before purchasing the supplies, he had confirmed with the hospital that the hospital was willing to accept the supplies, saving the volunteers some time to communicate with the donors.
若玉记得，他的语速特别快，让人很想马上执行他的命令。
Ruoyu remembered that he spoke so fast that people wanted to carry out his orders immediately.
当若玉告诉他，受他境外公司条件所限，可能无法通过绿色通道完成捐赠时，电话里的声音变得更高了些：“帮帮忙，他们真的没有物资了，你不能看着他们这样。
When Ruoyu told him that he might not be able to complete the donation through the Green Channel due to the conditions of his overseas company, the voice on the phone became louder: "Help, they really have no supplies.
”好在后来问题一一排除，杭州商人的物资顺利抵达国内转运。
Fortunately, the problems were later eliminated, Hangzhou businessmen's goods arrived in the country to transit smoothly.
2月初，若玉在网上看到了湖南省红十字会接受社会捐款情况公示。
Early in February, Ruoyu saw the Hunan Red Cross Society's acceptance of public donations on the Internet.
名单上，企业动辄捐出数以十万计的金钱和物资，而与这些企业并列，个人捐赠的物资可能只有几百套、几块钱。
Along with companies that are prone to donate hundreds of thousands of dollars and goods, individuals may donate only a few hundred sets and a few dollars.
他们是无声的捐赠者。
They are silent donors.
但若玉猜，这些人可能和接入她电话的人们一样，他们平时没有渠道，筹集物资时，需要一家家跑超市和便利店抢购，有时甚至要付出数倍于往日的价钱。
But like the people who hooked up to her, Ruoyu guessed, they didn't have access to the usual channels and had to run to supermarkets and convenience stores to snap up supplies, sometimes for several times the usual price.
搭建一条生命通道客服“若玉”只是这条运输线的开端。
Setting up a life passage customer service "Ruoyu" is only the beginning of this transport line.
全球的关心涌向中国，若玉和同事们面对的是物资量大、分散、又十分紧急的运输需求。
As global concern surges toward China, Ruoyu and her colleagues face huge, dispersed and urgent transport needs.
而这条特殊国际运输路线的统筹人，是一位名叫“疯摩”的职场女性。
The co-ordinator of this particular international transport route is a working woman named "Mad Mo."
大年初一，下午1点，正在沙发上追剧的疯摩接到上司打来的电话：国外有大批物资等待运往国内，但运输困难。
On New Year's Day, at 1: 00 pm, Mad Mo, who was chasing the play on the sofa, received a phone call from his boss: There were a lot of goods waiting to be shipped to China, but it was difficult to transport.
阿里菜鸟决定联合海内外物流合作商，开通全球绿色通道，为湖北免费运输救援物资。
Ali rookie decided to join domestic and overseas logistics partners to open a global green channel for Hubei free transportation of relief materials.
筹备这么一条跨国运输通路，对所有人都是一次陌生尝试。
Preparing such a cross-border transport route would be a strange experiment for everyone.
当时，想把在海外购买的物资送达武汉有两种方式：托专人带回国内捐赠，或通过专门的免税通道进入国内。
At the time, there were two ways to send goods purchased abroad to Wuhan, either by hand or through a special tax-free passage.
然而，免税通道只接收定向捐给国家级慈善机构的物资，普通人不熟悉其中流程，也联系不上国内慈善机构。
However, the tax-free passage only receives materials destined for national charities, with which ordinary people are unfamiliar and do not reach domestic charities.
因此，许多援鄂物资被困在了购买地，这是打通绿色通道要面对的第一关。
As a result, many aid materials are trapped in the place of purchase, this is to open a green channel to face the first hurdle.
第一天下午，疯摩和同事紧急联系各方负责人，协商达成方案：他们的团队负责联络国内五家慈善机构，统一为捐赠物资办理手续。
On the afternoon of the first day, Mad Mo and his colleagues made an urgent contact with the principals and agreed on a plan: their team would liaise with five charities in the country and unify the donation process.
同时为帮助慈善机构更快地分散物资，菜鸟将负责国内所有物资的分发物流。
Meanwhile, to help charities spread their supplies more quickly, the rookie will be responsible for the distribution logistics of all goods in the country.
为了节省时间，菜鸟团队决定放弃海运，但国际空运成本很高，阿里主动承担部分费用。
To save time, the rookie team decided to forgo shipping, but the cost of international air transport was high and Ali volunteered to bear part of the cost.
于是一条从世界各地通往国内的生命通道，顺利搭建了起来。
So a passage from all over the world to the domestic life, built up smoothly.
美国、印度尼西亚、克罗地亚、波兰，地图上的遥远国度纷纷发来捐赠信号，数量超乎想象。
The United States, Indonesia, Croatia, Poland, the map of distant countries have sent a number of donation signals beyond imagination.
工作开始后，疯摩才知道，手握物资在海外焦急等待的人处于什么状态。
It was not until work began that Mad-Mo knew what was happening to those who were waiting anxiously abroad with supplies.
温州的海外华侨在欧洲采购了152万个口罩、防护服等医疗物资，却遭遇航班大面积停飞，急得不行。
Overseas Chinese in Wenzhou have procured 1.52 million masks, protective clothing and other medical supplies in Europe, but encountered a large number of flights, anxious.
联系上热线时，简直如遇甘霖。
When contacting the hotline, it was like meeting Lin.
在一个华人留学生捐赠群里，有人发了一条网购链接：“我在这里买到口罩了！”其他人便迅速把这条链接里的口罩买空了。
In a donation group of Chinese students, someone posted an online shopping link: "I bought a mask here!" Others quickly emptied the mask from the link.
有学生知道疯摩是菜鸟的工作人员，喊着“快快快，阿里的人进群了，有什么需求赶紧说。
Some students knew that Mad-Mo was a rookie worker, shouting, "Hurry up, Ali's men are in the crowd.
”那是疯摩第一次接待留学生，与商家和机构的沉稳职业不同，学生们有用不完的亢奋情绪，疯摩觉得稚气可爱，又感动于他们的一腔热血。
It was the first time that Mad Mo had received an international student, and unlike the steady careers of businesses and institutions, students had an inexhaustible supply of excitement, and mad moans found childish and lovely and touched their blood.
捐赠者越来越多，6个人的临时班子不够用了，疯摩开始从同事中拉人。
With more and more donors and six people running out of temporary teams, Mad-Mo began pulling people from his colleagues.
他们自嘲像“传销”，疯狂给自己拉“下线”，工作群在两天时间内扩充到70余人。
They laugh at themselves as "pyramid schemes," crazily pulling themselves "offline," expanding to more than 70 in two days.
客服团队接通电话后登记好捐赠者的基本信息，筛选出符合规定的捐赠单子，并告知捐赠者需要准备的手续和后续流程。
After the customer service team is connected to the phone, it registers the basic information of the donor, screens out the required donation list, and informs the donor of the procedures and follow-up procedures to be prepared.
与此同时，运输团队统筹好物资的起落路线，保证手续通过后第一时间将货物运回国内。
At the same time, the transport team coordinated the landing and take-off routes and ensured that the goods were transported back to the country immediately after the procedures had passed.
同事们组成了一张细密的网，迅速传递着捐赠者的需求，稳稳托住了所有即将流向湖北的物资。
Colleagues formed a fine web that quickly relayed the needs of donors and secured all supplies destined for Hubei.
一个下午，一位美国的华人捐赠者在群里发来消息，表示自己的货量不是很大，不知能否帮忙承运。
One afternoon, a Chinese donor from the United States sent a message to the group that his cargo was not big enough to help with the transportation.
负责对接的当地同事立刻回复：“请相信我们。
The local colleague in charge of the docking immediately replied, "Please believe us.
”疯摩算了下时差，那会儿美国时间应该是凌晨一点半。
Mad Mo calculated the jet lag, when American time was supposed to be 1: 30am.
图|一批来自日本的物资进入菜鸟绿色通道休假在家的十几天里，除了睡觉时间，疯摩守在电脑前几乎没动过。
A group of goods from Japan spent a dozen days at home on a rookie green channel, barely touching a computer except during bedtime.
父母见疯摩这样，把食物和水放在她手边，没敢出声打扰。
The parents saw Mad Mo like this, put food and water on her hand, did not dare to disturb.
而负责将货物从国外发货地运上飞机的工作人员却不断发出坏消息。
But the staff responsible for shipping goods from overseas to the aircraft are constantly sending bad news.
受疫情影响，海外通往中国的航班正陆续取消，能走的通道越来越少。
As a result of the epidemic, flights to China from overseas are being cancelled and fewer and fewer routes are available.
到2月4日，全球已有46家航空公司暂停飞中国大陆的航班，取消班次超8000个。
By February 4, 46 airlines had suspended flights to China, cancelling more than 8,000.
因此，有的志愿者一天遭遇了3趟航班取消，10票捐赠物资突然无法起飞。
As a result, some volunteers were cancelled three times a day and 10 donated goods were suddenly prevented from taking off.
国际头程运输负责人刘骏接手的第一批物资，就预示了他的志愿者工作会常生波折。
Liu Jun, head of international head of transport, took over the first supplies, foreshadowed that his volunteer work will often have ups and downs.
那是一批从墨西哥捐往武汉和温州两地的口罩，总数3万个，由居住在墨西哥的温州华侨们发起捐赠。
It was a donation of 30,000 masks from Mexico to Wuhan and Wenzhou, sponsored by overseas Chinese living in Mexico.
原计划，这批口罩将从上海浦东机场落地入境，但临起飞前几天，政策在不停收紧，负责关务的同事评估，受政策调控影响，这批货物很难按原计划在上海落地。
The masks were scheduled to land at Shanghai's Pudong airport, but a few days before takeoff, policy was tightened and customs officials assessed that the goods would be difficult to land in Shanghai as originally planned due to policy controls.
在阿里做了多年海外业务，刘骏熟悉各地的海关政策。
Having worked overseas for many years in Ali, Liu Jun is familiar with the customs policies of various places.
沟通调整数次后，他决定将货物发往香港落地入境，陆运到广州，再从广州运往受赠目的地。
After several communications adjustments, he decided to send the goods to Hong Kong landing entry, land transportation to Guangzhou, and then from Guangzhou to the grantee destination.
图 | 刘骏深夜在对接口罩物流那之后，每次有运送物资的航班准备起飞。
Late at night, after docking his mask logistics, Liu took off on every flight carrying supplies.
刘骏都会做好时刻提出备用预案的准备。
Liu Jun will always be ready to put forward alternative plans.
杭州家中的电脑屏幕上，密密麻麻地排满了世界各地的航班图，直到载着物资的飞机顺利离地，他才能松一口气。
The computer screen at his home in Hangzhou is packed with flight charts from all over the world until the plane carrying the supplies leaves smoothly.
送到他们手里去飞机一落地，负责国内运输通道的李俊便要迅速响应。
When the plane landed in their hands, Li Jun, who was in charge of the internal transport corridor, responded quickly.
特殊时期，他和同事要找到那些可以揽收、运输、送达的区域，并标出运力不足的区域，尝试补缺。
During special periods, he and his colleagues identify areas that can be gathered, transported, and delivered, and mark areas that lack capacity, trying to fill gaps.
细到一批货用专车还是拼车，用9.6米的货车还是7.4米的货车，从哪个高速路口下车，团队都要一一跟进了解。
The team followed up on whether to pick up a special delivery car or a carpool, whether it was a 9.6-metre truck or a 7.4-metre truck, and which high-speed intersection to get off.
直到货物成功送达，拿到医院接收函，才算完成一场漫长接力。
It was not until the goods were delivered and received by the hospital that a long relay was completed.
除此之外，李俊的团队还要负责运输国内各地的救援物资。
In addition, Li Jun's team is also responsible for the transport of relief materials around the country.
1月26日，武汉协和医院物资告急，来自9省40个单位的救援物资整装待发，只等运输。
On January 26, Wuhan Concorde Hospital supplies were in short supply, with relief supplies from 40 units in nine provinces ready to be sent for transport only.
这批物资多数来自黑龙江、内蒙古、海南、甘肃等偏远地区，还有些物资分散在同一省份的不同单位。
Most of the goods came from remote areas such as Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia, Hainan and Gansu, and some materials were scattered among different units in the same province.
正值春节假期，物流资源本就稀缺，各单位无法解决运输问题，于是找到了菜鸟。
The Spring Festival holiday, the logistics resources are scarce, the units can not solve the transport problem, so found the rookie.
李俊接到通知后，第一时间找到了菜鸟的物流合作商，他本担心各家运力紧张，难以顾及，没想到所有合作商二话没说，都加入到运输队伍中，连夜和李俊制定了运输方案。
Li Jun received the notification, the first time to find a rookie logistics partners, he was worried about the tight capacity, difficult to take care of, did not expect all partners to say nothing, joined the transport team, even night and Li Jun made a transport plan.
来自黑龙江佳木斯富锦市的物资走陆运耗费时间长，于是要先用飞机送到武昌，再由火车送往武汉。
Transportation of goods from Jiamusi, Heilongjiang, takes a long time to land, so it has to be sent to Wuchang by plane and then by train to Wuhan.
考虑到各家快递能力不同，每一单救援物资都需要李俊团队评估资源和运力，看哪家快递最适合承接任务。
Taking into account the different express delivery capabilities, each relief material needs Li Jun's team to assess the resources and capacity to see which courier is best suited to undertake the task.
第二天，各家快递分别到各地医院上门揽收。
The next day, each express delivery to the local hospitals to collect.
五天后，9省援助物资全部送到了武汉协和医院的医生手中。
Five days later, all nine provincial aid supplies were delivered to doctors at Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
截至2月13日，菜鸟绿色通道已经接到超过1.6万个捐助热线。
As of February 13, more than 16,000 donation hotlines had been received by the Green Channel.
来自海外29个国家和地区的政府、机构、华人华侨团体捐赠的2600万件医疗物资，已经通过菜鸟绿色通道运达武汉等地。
Twenty-six million pieces of medical supplies donated by governments, institutions and overseas Chinese associations from 29 countries and regions abroad have been delivered to Wuhan and other places through the Green Channel.
图|一批通过东航运送的物资抵达菜鸟跨境物流团队的汪龙，春节期间身处湖北第二大疫区黄冈，隔离在家的他顺势报名成为了志愿者。
Wang Long, who arrived on the rookie cross-border logistics team with cargo transported by China Eastern, registered as a volunteer during the Spring Festival in Huanggang, Huanggang, Huanggang, the second-most-affected area in Huanggang.
他承认，特殊时期，公开渠道信息量大，一些偏远地区的呼救声容易被淹没。
He acknowledged that special periods of open access to information, some remote areas easy to drown out the cry for help.
他曾打捞过一次这些来自小城镇的微弱呼喊。
He had once salvaged these feeble cries from small towns.
2月5日，4万个由法国寄出的口罩抵达。
On 5 February, 40,000 masks from France arrived.
起初，捐赠者想将这批物资捐给武汉市区一所医院，但这所医院表示目前医用外科口罩相对充足。
Initially, the donor wanted to donate the supplies to a hospital in Wuhan, but the hospital said it was relatively well stocked with surgical masks.
汪龙旋即联系了身在法国的捐献方，建议将这批口罩送往武汉周边，物资严重缺乏，又无人关照的地方医院。
Wang immediately contacted donors in France and suggested that the masks be sent to a local hospital near Wuhan, which is badly short of supplies and unattended.
对方对他报以信任，请他推荐。
They trusted him and asked him to recommend him.
汪龙推荐了三个地方：荆州、孝感和黄冈下辖的武穴市。
Wang Longrecommended three places: Jingzhou filial piety and Wukuen under the jurisdiction of Huanggang City.
汪龙是黄冈人，大年初二，他在朋友圈看到武穴市一所定点医院的求援，得知在这家医院里，医护人员没有防护面罩，穿雨衣当防护服，医用外科口罩仅够用1-2天。
Wanglong is a Huanggang people, New Year's Day, he saw in the circle of friends Wukuen a designated hospital for help, learned that in this hospital, medical personnel do not have protective masks, wearing raincoats as protective clothing, medical surgical masks can only last one to two days.
最终，身在法国的捐赠方决定，将这4万个口罩转给武穴市中医医院。
Eventually, the donor community in France decided to transfer the 40,000 masks to the Wuhan TCM Hospital.
口罩找到了需要它们的人一路上，石令对疫情的警惕逐步累积。
As the masks find people in need of them along the way, the epidemic's vigilance builds up.
在黄冈市境内一处加油站停靠时，一个女人看他货箱上贴着“武汉医疗物资”几个黄色大字，想让石令卖一些口罩给她。
At a gas station in Huanggang, a woman looks at his suitcase and signs it in big yellow letters, trying to get Stone to sell her some masks.
石令跟她解释，医疗物资不能私自倒卖。
Stone explained to her that medical supplies could not be sold without permission.
那女人打着哭腔说：“实在没有了，到处买不着。
"No," said the woman, weeping. "I can't buy anything.
”女人戴着一层单薄口罩，石令单看眉眼也感受到女人的焦急。
The woman was wearing a thin mask, and her eyebrows met with anxiety.
他走回驾驶室，出发前老板给了他5个N95口罩，一路上只用了1个，他拿了1个送给女人，自己还剩3个。
He walked back to the cab. Before he left, his boss gave him five N95 masks. He used only one on the way.
隐约感觉，还没到武汉，物资就这么紧缺了吗？进入武汉市区时刚过上午11点。
Vaguely feeling, has not arrived in Wuhan, the material is so scarce? Wuhan city district just after 11 a.m.
石令打开电子地图，搜索前往受捐点的导航，他感觉，在武汉，时间的长短“错乱了”。
Shi Ling opened an electronic map and searched for navigation to the donor site, feeling that in Wuhan, the length of time was "deranged."
原本他的计划很简单——把物资运到受捐单位的地址，就立刻返回上海。
His plan was simple: get the supplies to the recipient's address and return to Shanghai immediately.
没想到，进入武汉之后，由于货车通行受限，加上1月下旬以来武汉市区的禁行规定，电子地图上，平时市区里不到14公里的路，弯弯绕绕，竟要花近8小时。
Unexpectedly, after entering Wuhan, due to restrictions on the movement of goods vehicles, coupled with the ban on Wuhan City since late January, electronic maps, in peacetime less than 14 kilometers of urban areas, winding, it took almost eight hours.
他一夜没吃东西，又因进了武汉沿路寻不见餐馆，饥饿之下，他感觉自己开不了近8小时的路了。
He did not eat a night, and because of the road into Wuhan found no restaurant, hungry, he felt that he could not drive nearly eight hours.
好在，石令在路边找到一名交警问路，交警见他的车有通行证，告诉他不用那么长时间，直接走市区的三环路，很快就能到。
Luckily, Shi Ling found a traffic policeman on the roadside to ask for directions. When the traffic police saw that his car had a pass, they told him not to take that long to go straight to the Third Ring Road in the city.
1月27日下午5点，石令跑了两处受捐地后，终于卸下最后一箱医疗物资。
At 5 p.m. on January 27, Shi Ling made two donations and finally unloaded the last box of medical supplies.
他坐在货车驾驶舱里俯瞰园区里穿着防护服往来的人们，启动了货车，踏上返程。
He sat in the cab of the truck overlooking the people in protective clothing in the park, started the truck and set off on his way back.
一名绿色通道的志愿者提醒我们——在输送链条上，像石令这样的司机是“消耗品”。
A Green Channel volunteer reminds us that drivers like Shi Ling are "expendable" in the delivery chain.
每跑一趟武汉，回来后迎接他们的就是14天的居家隔离。
Every run to Wuhan, back to meet them is 14 days of home isolation.
这期间，他们无法复工，也不能再送货去武汉。
In the meantime, they could not resume work or send goods to Wuhan.
图 | 工作人员正在交接物资石令说，到武汉走一遭，比起身体承受的，心理压力更累人。
Staff are handing over supplies. A trip to Wuhan is more exhausting than the physical stress you have endured, according to a statement.
他跑了两个受捐点，除了从外地运货来的司机，当地人都穿着厚厚的隔离服，这让他没由来地想象空气里飘满病毒的场面。
He traveled to two of the sites, where he could not imagine the air filled with the virus, except for the drivers who had brought it from other places, all of whom were wearing thick, isolated uniforms.
他不敢大口呼吸，不敢做表情，怕脸和口罩中裂出间隙，病毒跑进嘴里。
He did not dare to breathe, do not dare to expression, afraid of the face and mask cracks in the gap, the virus ran into the mouth.
他害怕染病，害怕把病传染给妻子，因此，在路上，他打了通电话给妻子，让妻子买好消毒液和口罩。
Afraid of getting sick and spreading the disease to his wife, he telephoned his wife and asked her to buy disinfectant and a mask.
他计划着，回家后，他第一时间要把外衣脱下来，能丢的随身物品装在垃圾袋里处理掉，不能丢的物品用消毒液处理，然后彻底洗漱一遍。
When he got home, he planned to take off his coat first, dispose of any belongings he could throw in a garbage bag, dispose of them with disinfectant, and wash them thoroughly.
离开武汉，石令没有停留，一路开到了黄冈附近的高速路服务站，实在困得不行，趴在方向盘上睡了1个半小时。
Left Wuhan, Shi Ling did not stop, all the way to Huanggang near the highway service station, really sleepy, lying on the steering wheel for one and a half hours sleep.
这是他两天来睡得最沉最长的一次。
It was the heaviest sleep he had had in two days.
2月初，居家隔离的倒数日逐渐归零，石令的紧张情绪也渐渐消散。
At the beginning of February, the isolation of the home for a few days gradually came to zero, stone tension gradually dissipated.
工作群里后来又有几次招募志愿司机去武汉，石令又报名了。
The group later recruited several volunteer drivers to Wuhan, Shi Ling again signed up.
他还是会回想起容纳1400多万人的武汉街头空无一人的诡异情境，也依旧害怕染病。
Still, he will recall the bizarre, empty streets of Wuhan, home to more than 14 million people, still fearful of getting sick.
但他也问自己：如果有一天我生病了，会有人这样为我付出吗？2月第一周，从法国捐出的4万个口罩抵达武汉。
But he also asked himself: If I fell ill one day, would someone pay for me like this? 40,000 masks donated from France arrived in Wuhan in the first week of February.
汪龙从照片里见过他经手的那4万个口罩，体积2.5立方米，摆在货厢里竟然显得小巧。
Wang saw the 40,000 masks he handled, 2.5 cubic metres in volume, in a small box.
准备运往武穴时，又遇到了难题。
Ready to transport to Wuxue, again encountered a difficult problem.
由于交通管制，普通车辆无法从武汉开到黄冈。
Because of traffic control, ordinary vehicles can not drive from Wuhan to Huanggang.
最终在汪龙努力接洽下，它们搭着当地一家物流公司的顺风车到了武穴市，走到了运输链末端。
In the end, Wang Lung efforts to contact, they ride a local logistics company's downwind car to Wuquan City, to the end of the transport chain.
武穴市区限制机动车上路，汪龙打电话到武穴中医院器械科，告诉他们需要一天半时间安排为车辆申请证件。
Wuquan District to limit the use of motor vehicles, Wang Long called Wuxue Chinese Hospital Armory, told them that it takes a day and a half to arrange for vehicles to apply for documents.
接电话的女医生让汪龙告知了物流网点地址，由医院派出的救护车当天就把那4万个口罩领了回去。
The woman doctor who answered the phone let Wang Long inform the logistics network address, the ambulance sent by the hospital on the same day to take back the 40,000 masks.
然而这不是这些口罩漂流的终点。
But this is not the end of the mask drifting.
汪龙问医生，4万个口罩医院能用多久。
Wang asked the doctor how long the hospital would last for 40, 000 masks.
武穴中医院答复，留存了1万个口罩后，他们又把剩余的外科口罩运往了周边物资紧缺的小医院。
Wu Xue Chinese Hospital replied that after retaining 10,000 masks, they took the remaining surgical masks to nearby small hospitals where supplies were scarce.
器械科的医生将接受物资的医院名一个个报给汪龙，多数医院他从未听说过。
The armoury doctor reported the names of the hospitals that received the supplies to Wang Long, most of which he had never heard of.
正是这些不知名的医院，在这次疫情中，承担着小城镇一线救治工作。
It is these unknown hospitals, in this outbreak, bear the small town front-line treatment work.
汪龙的奔走，和求得物资的医院相助，让这些从欧洲奔赴中国的物资，支援了一批原本很难被关注到的人。
Wang Long's rush, and the assistance of hospitals seeking supplies, let these from Europe to China, support a group of people who would otherwise be difficult to focus on.
*图片均由受访者提供撰文| 林森菜马延君- END-疫情紧急，举国齐动。
* Images provided by respondents include Rinseng Ma Yenjun-END - Urgent and nationally coordinated.
真故会在“一起抗疫”专栏里，记录下不同人和机构在这段特殊时期的努力。
It is true that in the "An Anti-epidemic" column, we will document the efforts of different people and institutions during this particular period.
每一丝力量，都光芒万丈。
Every breath of power is radiant.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
16000个电话开辟的生命热线。
16,000 telephone hotlines.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "16000个电话开辟的生命热线";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "如何往武汉运送800万个口罩？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How did it transport 8 million masks to Wuhan?;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
