老外在上海的抗疫日子：韩侨自觉隔离，法国人爬18楼上班。
Foreigners in Shanghai on the day of the plague: Korean self-segregation, the French climbed the 18th floor to work.
一财记者。
A financial reporter.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
17.02.2020本文字数：4137，阅读时长大约7分钟导读：昔日繁华热闹的街道“空荡荡”成为疫情期间在上海的老外们的最直接感受；而“不是滋味”，代表了他们热爱上海的心声。
2008-09-25 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 14: 10 The past bustle of the streets has become the most direct feeling of the foreigners in Shanghai during the epidemic, while "bad taste" represents their love for Shanghai.
作者 | 第一财经 权小星 潘寅茹 钱童心新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情的持续，不仅改变了许多普通居民的生活，同时也改变了许多旅居上海的外国侨民的生活节奏。
The persistence of the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic has not only changed the lives of many ordinary residents, but also the pace of life of many expatriates living in Shanghai.
在上海居住十余年的韩侨张昌民（音译），目前在一家韩国大型贸易企业的驻沪代表处工作。
Zhang Changmin, an overseas Korean living in Shanghai for more than a decade, currently works in the Shanghai office of a large Korean trading company.
他多年来居住在上海闵行区虹桥镇的“韩国街”周边。
He has lived for many years around "Korea Street" in Hongqiao Town, Minhang District, Shanghai.
在他看来，即便是“曾经见过风风雨雨”的他，目前的疫情也仍然让他“发懵”。
In his view, even if he had "seen the storm", the current epidemic still let him "muddle".
张昌民指着空空荡荡的“韩国街”，向第一财经记者表示，即便是在韩企的艰难时刻，上海的韩国街都没有这么空旷过。
Pointing to the empty "South Korea Street," Zhang told leading financial reporters that even in tough times for South Korean companies, South Korean streets in Shanghai were not so empty.
这也让在上海生活多年的他心里不是滋味。
It also made him feel bad about living in Shanghai for many years.
事实上，“空荡荡”成为疫情期间在上海的老外们的最直接感受；而“不是滋味”，也代表了他们热爱上海的心声。
In fact, "empty" became the most direct feeling of foreigners in Shanghai during the epidemic, while "bad taste" also represents their love for Shanghai.
▲元宵节当晚，上海浦东陆家嘴高楼点亮为武汉加油的景观灯。
Lantern Festival night, the Shanghai Pudong Lujiazui tower lights up for Wuhan refueling landscape lights.
图源：新华社改变生活根据上海市人民政府发布的《上海统计年鉴2018》，截至2017年底，上海全市在沪外国常住人口16.3363万人，日本、美国、韩国、德国、澳大利亚占在沪外国常住人口前五位。
By the end of 2017, the city had 163.63 million resident foreign residents in Shanghai, with Japan, the United States, South Korea, Germany and Australia accounting for the top five resident foreign residents in Shanghai, according to the 2018 Shanghai Statistical Yearbook issued by the Shanghai Municipal People's Government.
其中，韩国国籍常住人口为2.0823万人，连续多年排名前三位。
Among them, the resident population of Korean nationality was 20,823, ranking the top three in a row for many years.
根据上海韩国商会方面掌握的数据，闵行区由于距离市区及商务区较近，且早期形成的“韩国街”位于闵行，因此也成为上海韩侨最密集的区域之一。
According to the data of Shanghai Korean Chamber of Commerce, Minhang District is one of the most densely populated areas in Shanghai due to its close proximity to the city and business district and the early formation of "Korea Street" in Minhang.
“韩国街”周边在不到2平方公里的该区域内，据不完全估算居住着近万名韩国侨民。
South Korea Street is surrounded by less than two square kilometers and is home to nearly 10,000 South Koreans, according to incomplete estimates.
近日，第一财经记者来到虹桥镇“韩国街”。
Recently, the first financial reporter came to Hongqiao Town "Korea Street."
街上行人稀少，大多数商户仍然大门紧闭，只有少部分韩国超市及餐厅提供服务。
The streets are sparsely populated and most businesses remain closed, with only a small number of Korean supermarkets and restaurants serving.
曾担任上海韩国商会秘书长的“资深”韩国侨民朴烓铸告诉第一财经记者，由于目前在沪韩企处于转型期，本地化速度加快——部分企业的制造基地随着长三角一体化的步伐搬迁至江浙地区，且中国本土员工的比例也在逐步增高，上海逐渐转型为总部与营销基地。
Park Zengzhu, a veteran South Korean who was secretary-general of the Korean Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, told the first financial reporter that with the transformation of enterprises in Shanghai and South Korea, localization is accelerating - some manufacturing bases have moved to Jiangsu and Zhejiang with the integration of the Yangtze River Delta, and the proportion of local employees is increasing.
“因此，有一部分劳动密集型韩企离开了上海，而一些大型企业的总部则为了吸引中国应聘者则搬迁至上海其他地区，导致韩国街周边的常住人口相较鼎盛时期有所减少，但韩国街仍然是许多上海韩侨心目中的‘老家’。
"As a result, some of the labour-intensive South Korean companies have left Shanghai, while the head offices of some of the biggest companies have relocated to other parts of Shanghai to attract Chinese candidates, reducing the resident population around South Korea Street, which remains the home of many Shanghai Koreans.
”而在韩国餐厅、商场与培训机构密集、被称为韩国街的“地标建筑”的井亭首尔广场商业楼前，第一财经记者看到由闵行区人民政府张贴的通告，要求包括从韩国在内的外地返沪人员，一律进行14天隔离，并实施封闭式管理。
In front of the commercial building of Jingting Seoul Plaza, a densely populated "landmark building" called Korea Street in South Korea, the first financial reporter saw a notice posted by the Minhang District People's Government demanding 14 days of isolation and closed management for all people returning to Shanghai, including those from South Korea.
现场的一位保安也透露，目前该商场建议，除部分为生活必需服务的商户外，尽量还是暂缓复工；且进入商场前，需要测量体温。
A security guard at the site also revealed that the shopping centre was recommending that the resumption of work be suspended except for some essential services, and that temperature checks should be carried out before entering the shopping centre.
此外，由在沪的韩系培训机构组成的上海韩国教育培训机构联合会方面也发布通知，将推迟复课时间，以保证青少年的健康。
In addition, the Shanghai Association of Korean Education and Training Institutions, which is made up of Korean training institutes in Shanghai, has issued a notice to delay the resumption of classes to ensure the health of teenagers.
在一家尚在营业的韩国超市K-Mart，有多名韩侨在购买韩国食品。
At K-Mart, a Korean supermarket that is still in business, Koreans are buying Korean food.
一位购物的韩侨向记者表示，他计划购买一批韩国速食后，这几天就“不出门”了，在家里“自我隔离”，并等待复工。
A Korean shopper told reporters he planned to "stay home" for a few days after he planned to buy a batch of Korean fast food, "isolating himself" at home and waiting to get back to work.
该超市的经理也表示，自从疫情开始呈现上升的1月底开始，该超市的方便类食品销量同比增长超过440%，且目前由于中韩间航班减少，备货方面颇感吃力。
Managers at the supermarket say convenience food sales have risen more than 440% year-on-year since the end of January, when the epidemic began to rise, and are struggling to get ready for sale because of fewer flights between China and South Korea.
已经在上海生活了快4年的法国人玛丽告诉第一财经记者，过去一个月，她大部分时间都待在家里没有出门。
Mary, a Frenchman who has been living in Shanghai for nearly four years, told First Financial News that she had stayed at home most of the past month.
玛丽还是两个孩子的母亲，法国学校也停课了，她需要和丈夫轮流在家里照顾孩子。
Mary is also the mother of two and French schools are closed. She and her husband take turns taking care of the children at home.
玛丽对第一财经记者表示，“我们获得允许在家里办公，只有不得已要用公司电脑的时候，才会去办公室。
"We get permission to work from home and only go to the office if we have to use a company computer," she told First Financial.
”她的公司在办公楼的18层，但是她选择走楼梯。
Her company was on the 18th floor of the office building, but she chose the stairs.
“我看到钟南山院士说乘坐电梯容易增加感染风险，所以宁可走楼梯。
"I saw the academician Zhong Nan Shan say taking the elevator increases the risk of infection, so I'd rather take the stairs.
”玛丽说，“再说我的健身房也关门了，正好乘机锻炼身体。
"And my gym is closed, just in time for exercise," said Mary.
”德国人史蒂文在一家消费品公司担任高管。
Steven, a German executive at a consumer-goods company.
他对第一财经记者表示，他现在尽可能地避免去公司上班，避免去人多的地方。
He told leading financial reporters that he was trying to avoid going to work and to avoid crowded places.
“我在家里每天都和全球的团队通过电话沟通工作，影响不大。
"I communicate with teams around the world over the phone every day at home, with little impact.
”史蒂芬告诉第一财经记者，“目前公司的员工大部分已经回来了，只有20%的员工仍然受影响。
"Most of the company's staff has now returned, and only 20 per cent of staff are still affected," Stephen told Financial No. 1.
”玛丽和史蒂文都对第一财经记者表示，他们相信中国政府能够处理好这场危机，并且表示，只要有一个开放透明的城市治理环境，自己仍会选择留在中国、留在上海。
Both Mary and Steven told leading financial reporters they believed the government could handle the crisis and said they would remain in China and Shanghai as long as there was an open and transparent urban governance environment.
不过也有一些外国人表示自己的生活并没有被疫情打乱。
But some foreigners say their lives have not been disrupted by the outbreak.
法国人纪尧姆是一位创业者，平日工作节奏相对自由，他在上海还经营着一家自己的骨科诊所。
Guillaume, a Frenchman who runs his own orthopaedic clinic in Shanghai, works at a relatively free pace.
纪尧姆对第一财经记者表示，过去一个月，他每天都会出门遛弯，拍很多照片。
Mr. Guillaume told First Financial that he had been walking around and taking lots of photos every day for the past month.
“我太享受这座安静的城市了。
"I enjoy the quiet city so much.
”纪尧姆对第一财经记者表示，“这样的机会也非常难得，以往的外滩都是人山人海，现在就成了我一个人的。
"It's a rare opportunity," Guillaume told First Financial. "The Bund used to be a sea of faces, but now it's mine alone.
这种感觉有点奢侈。
The feeling is a little extravagant.
”▲元宵节上海豫园推出“云赏灯”，通过线上互动，让网友在线上观看豫园灯会。
"Yuyuan Garden Lantern Festival in Shanghai launched the" Yuyuan lamp, "through online interaction, so that online users to watch the Yu Garden Lantern Festival.
图源：新华社自助互助上海武康路上的西餐厅Blanche经营者腾龙（Jerome Tauvron）对第一财经记者表示，虽然在春节餐厅停止营业，但是由于对疫情给业务带来的影响有所预判，他们在春节期间就已经加班开发出一份新的外卖菜单。
Source: Jerome Tauvron, a western restaurant on Shanghai's Wukang Road, told First Financial that although the restaurant was closed for business during the Spring Festival, it had worked overtime to develop a new take-out menu during the Lunar New Year, anticipating the impact of the outbreak on business.
他对第一财经记者表示，“2月3日推出外卖菜单，很多老顾客的接受度很高。
"When the take-out menu was introduced on February 3, many of the old customers were very receptive," he told leading financial reporters.
我也感谢他们对餐厅安全卫生状况的信任。
I also thank them for their confidence in the safety and hygiene of the restaurant.
”腾龙说，幸好餐厅经营并不是靠“走量”，所以在疫情中的受影响程度也比很多餐厅要小。
Thankfully, the restaurant isn't run by "volume," so it is less affected by the outbreak than many restaurants, Tenglong said.
“我们的服务员都是上海本地员工，他们在春节期间也没有出上海，所以不用隔离。
"Our waiters are all local Shanghai employees and they don't leave Shanghai during the Spring Festival, so they don't have to be segregated.
”“（上海政府和相关部门的）租金的缓缴和社保金方面的减免措施能帮助我们克服目前的难关。
"The withholding of rent and the reduction of social security payments [from the Shanghai government and related departments] will help us overcome the current difficulties.
因为虽然营业额下降了，但是我们还是支付员工全额工资。
Because even though the turnover has gone down, we still pay the full salary of our employees.
”腾龙说，他非常热爱上海这座城市，不管发生什么，他都不会离开。
Tenglong said he loved the city so much that he would not leave no matter what happened.
而随着疫情的持续发酵，许多韩侨也开始展开了自助与互助行动。
As the epidemic continues to ferment, many overseas Koreans have started to help themselves and help each other.
在上海“韩国街”内从事韩国料理的商户组成的“韩国外食业协会上海分会”向旗下餐厅发出倡议，部分具备条件的韩侨餐厅在自愿原则下，为韩国侨民提供餐饮服务，且不加收服务费用。
The Shanghai branch of the Korean Food Association, a group of Korean restaurants in Shanghai's Korea Street, has launched an initiative to its restaurants. Some of the qualified Korean restaurants offer catering services to Korean residents on a voluntary basis and at no additional cost.
谈起这一倡议的初衷，该协会负责人向第一财经记者表示，多数韩侨只身一人受公司派遣赴华工作，家中并不具备自行开伙的条件。
Speaking to the first financial reporter about the initiative, the association's director told the first financial reporter that most overseas Koreans were sent to work in China by the company alone and did not have the means to start their own business.
参加该倡议的虹泉路“麻浦屋”餐厅负责人告诉第一财经记者，目前大多数餐厅的中国员工仍然无法复工，导致餐厅均由老板一人打理，“招待不周，现在上菜慢了一些”。
The head of Mapou House, a restaurant on the initiative, told leading financial reporters that most Chinese staff were still unable to get back to work, leaving the restaurant to be managed by a single owner.
韩国高丽大学的上海校友会近日也在其所在群组内发布通知，经过学校总部与校友工作的韩国本土口罩企业协调，向居住在上海的该校校友免费提供10个口罩，而该校校友会负责人李忠明还承担了将口罩从韩国带回中国的费用。
The Shanghai Alumni Association of Korea's Koryo University recently issued a notice in its group to provide 10 face masks free of charge to alumni living in Shanghai, in coordination with South Korean mask companies working with alumni at the school's headquarters, and Li Zhong-ming, who heads the school's alumni association, paid for the masks to be brought back to China from South Korea.
张昌民所在的公司是具有资质的贸易企业。
Zhang Changmin's company is a qualified trading enterprise.
在积极协助中国有关机构及电商企业在韩国购入口罩的同时，他还分别向公司所在的区疾控中心及韩国商会赠送了1万个口罩，以帮助本地居民有效抗击疫情。
While actively assisting Chinese agencies and electrical companies to buy masks in South Korea, he donated 10,000 masks to the company's District CDC and the Korean Chamber of Commerce to help local residents fight the epidemic.
上海韩侨媒体《Shanghai Journal》副总编朴胜浩表示，了解到目前中国国内的物资短缺，且优先供应至医疗机构等情况，其倡议韩侨群体尽量不给忙碌于抗击疫情的中国“添麻烦”，强烈建议韩侨从韩国本土准备口罩、消毒液等防疫物资，发挥“自助”与“互助”精神，携手共同解决问题。
Park Shenghao, deputy editor of the Shanghai Journal of the Shanghai Overseas Chinese Media, said his group was urging the overseas Korean community not to "cause trouble" to China, which is busy fighting the epidemic.
此外，一些韩侨也在积极组织力量，帮助中国能够早日走出难关。
In addition, some overseas Koreans are actively organizing themselves to help China overcome difficulties at an early date.
在“韩国街”居住4年的“韩国宝妈”罗志娜，近日自愿申请帮助相关组织发放口罩，并协助向发动韩侨进行防疫物资的互助。
"South Korean precious mother" Luo Zhenna, who has lived in South Korea Street for four years, has volunteered to help organizations distribute masks and help provide mutual assistance in launching anti-epidemic materials for overseas Koreans.
她向第一财经记者表示，她在中国的这几年，感受到来自中国邻里的善意和爱心，在困难的时刻，帮助自己周边的韩侨和中国邻居，也是她理所应当做的事情。
During her time in China, she told leading financial reporters that she felt the goodwill and love of her Chinese neighbors and took it for granted that she would help the Koreans and their Chinese neighbours around her in these difficult times.
曾在上海华东师大留学、目前在韩国汉阳大学担任特聘教授的禹守根，在听闻中国国内缺乏疫情防护物资后，第一时间在韩国的赴华留学生群体及韩国民众中发起筹款倡议，在短短两天内向中方转交了善款。
Studied as a special professor at Hanyang University in Shanghai, Stuart Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio Studio, who was a special professor at Hanyang University in Shanghai, immediately launched a fund-raising initiative among overseas students and the Korean public in South Korea after hearing about the lack of epidemic prevention materials in China.
他还在韩国国内多次提出，除了韩国中央政府以外，韩国各地地方政府也应当积极向中国的友好城市捐赠物资，以帮助中国尽快渡过难关。
He has also repeatedly said in South Korea that, in addition to the central government, local governments throughout South Korea should actively donate materials to China's friendly cities to help China tide over the difficulties as soon as possible.
“上海温情”事实上，虽然疫情对于韩国侨民的生活产生一定的影响，但多名韩国侨民也向第一财经记者表示，正是上海的高效应对与智慧防疫措施，让他们在疫情中也感受到些许“家的温暖”。
In fact, although the epidemic has had an impact on the lives of Korean residents, a number of South Koreans also told the first financial reporter that it was Shanghai's high-impact response and smart anti-epidemic measures that helped them feel the warmth of home in the midst of the epidemic.
张昌民表示，在疫情大规模扩散后，没过几天，街道和派出所方面就通过上海韩国商会等韩侨组织，发布了韩文版的疫情防控措施信息，并与韩国驻沪领馆等机构合作，共同发行了载有发热门诊地址及就诊指南的韩文版手册。
Zhang said that just days after the spread of the epidemic, street and police stations, through Korean organizations such as the Korean Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, had issued Korean-language versions of the epidemic prevention and control measures.
闵行区虹桥镇社区网格化管理工作人员也向第一财经记者透露，考虑到虹桥镇韩国公民较为密集的特点，因此在上海市官方发布了疫情有关指南以后，第一时间联系了社区内精通韩语的志愿者及专业翻译人员，加班加点进行翻译，并在2天之内将一份数十页的指南翻译成韩文，并转交至上海韩国商会等韩侨机构；而参与翻译的韩侨全先生不仅志愿参与了翻译，还协助武汉市应急办进行了口罩等韩国捐赠物资的标准统一。
Taking into account the dense characteristics of Korean citizens in Hongqiao township, Minhang District, the first official contact with Korean-speaking volunteers and professional translators in Hongqiao was made. He translated a ten-page guide into Korean and forwarded it to overseas Korean organizations such as the Shanghai Korean Chamber of Commerce.
上海韩国商会副会长金龙德也向第一财经记者表示，在疫情大规模暴发后的第一时间，上海闵行区政府、上海市出入境管理局及其他有关机构主动联系了韩国商会，并就如何向韩侨及时发布信息进行了频繁的沟通，共同做好疫情期间的各种防护工作。
The vice-president of the Korean Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai, Kim Longde, also told the first financial reporter that in the immediate aftermath of the outbreak, the Min Hang District Government of Shanghai, the Shanghai Exit and Entry Administration and other relevant agencies had contacted the Korean Chamber of Commerce and exchanged frequent communications on how to release timely information to the overseas Korean people.
此外，由上海市新闻办及外事办联合主办的上海对外信息服务热线962288，也成为在沪韩侨温暖的“温情一刻”。
Besides, the Shanghai Foreign Information Service Hotline 962288, jointly sponsored by the Shanghai Information Office and the Foreign Affairs Office, has also become a warm "moment of tenderness" in Shanghai and overseas Koreans.
张昌民表示，他的一个韩侨朋友恰巧遇到身体不适，根据规定应当向居委会进行报备后前往定点医院，而拨打了该热线以后，接线员不厌其烦地向其介绍居委会联系方式及医院的具体位置，这也让处于疫情恐慌中的韩侨感受到温暖，“至少，让韩侨们不再束手无策”。
Zhang Changmin said one of his overseas Korean friends happened to be unwell. According to the regulations, he should report to the neighborhood committee and go to a designated hospital. When he called the hotline, the operator took pains to introduce the contact details of the neighborhood committee and the exact location of the hospital.
已在热线工作了9年的上海对外信息服务热线首席服务代表完颜绍铧告诉第一财经记者，最近几天的统计显示，外籍人士咨询最多的还是口罩问题，由此还附带了所属居委会的查询。
The head service representative of Shanghai Foreign Information Service, who has been on the hotline for nine years, has told leading financial analysts that in recent days the question of masks has been the most frequently asked by foreigners, along with inquiries from their local council.
“我们不仅要帮外籍人士查到住址所属的居委会，我们还会电话确认，这个小区是不是在这个居委会的管辖范围内。
"Not only do we need to help foreigners find out which neighborhood they belong to, but we'll also call to make sure that the neighborhood is under the jurisdiction of the neighborhood.
”完颜绍铧说，“我们在实际操作中，确实发现网上的一些信息与实属居委会还是有出入的，存在信息不匹配的现象。
"In practice, we do find some discrepancies between the online information and the actual neighborhood committee," says Ms. Shao.
”“运作十多年来，我们从来没解释过与传染病相关的内容。
"In more than a decade of operation, we have never explained anything about infectious diseases.
”上海对外信息服务热线主任乐迪在接受第一财经记者采访时也表示，新冠肺炎疫情发生的当下，即便是运作了十多年的热线也遇到了许多“第一次”。
In an interview with leading financial reporters, Leddy, director of the Shanghai Foreign Information Service, also said the outbreak was coming as a "first time" for even hotlines that had been in operation for more than a decade.
乐迪要求员工抓紧每分每秒进行培训，不能乱用词汇，让每个员工用自己的工作语言准确地讲述“确诊”、“疑似”、“发烧”、“白肺”等一堆新冠肺炎相关的名词。
Reddy urged staff to step up training every minute of the day, not to use words so that each employee could use his or her own working language to accurately describe the terms "diagnosed," "suspected," "feverish," "white lung," and so on.
他说，上海作为一个国际大都市，不会在这一特殊时期把这些在上海工作或者生活的外籍人士忘却，“我们要体现出上海的温情”。
'As an international metropolis, Shanghai will not forget the foreigners who work and live in Shanghai at this particular time, 'we need to reflect the warmth of Shanghai,' he said.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
老外在上海的抗疫日子：韩侨自觉隔离，法国人爬18楼上班。
Foreigners in Shanghai on the day of the plague: Korean self-segregation, the French climbed the 18th floor to work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "老外在上海的抗疫日子：韩侨自觉隔离，法国人爬18楼上班";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "昔日繁华热闹的街道“空荡荡”成为疫情期间在上海的老外们的最直接感受；而“不是滋味”，代表了他们热爱上海的心声。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
