特别报道 | 那些救人的人走了。
Special Report # 124; Those who saved lives have gone.
袁颖。
Yuan Ying.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
实习记者 | 袁  颖编辑 | 许诗雨疫情让人们了解到了医疗资源的可贵。
At Ren Yuan & amp; Ying Yuan & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
保护医务人员和医学技术领域的人才就是保护其他人的生命。
To protect medical personnel and personnel in the field of medical technology is to protect the lives of others.
然而，医务人员的职业特殊性也意味着他们受到感染的风险也更高。
However, the professional particularities of medical staff also mean that they are at higher risk of infection.
2月14日下午，在国务院举行的应对感染肺炎疫情联防联控机制新闻发布会上，国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新介绍，截至2月11日24时，全国医务人员确诊新冠肺炎1716例，占全国确诊病例3.8%，其中6人不幸死亡，占全国死亡病例0.4%。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, accounting for 3.8 percent of the confirmed cases nationwide, of which 6, or 0.4 per cent, had died, according to Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission.
不止是医护工作者，还有许多人倒在了对抗疫情的战线上。
Not just health-care workers, but many others are on the front lines of the fight against the epidemic.
例如55岁的武汉人何辉。
He Hui, a 55-year-old Wuhan man.
疫情出现后，武汉人何辉自愿参加了医护人员志愿者车队，义务接送医护人员下班。
After the outbreak of the disease, Wuhan Ho Hui volunteers to join the medical staff volunteer convoy, volunteer to transport off-duty medical personnel.
据何辉家人称，何辉于除夕前后加入武汉志愿者车队，后因身体出现不适，何辉才中断了志愿者工作。
According to his family, Ho Hui joined the Wuhan volunteer team around New Year's Eve. He interrupted his volunteer work because of physical discomfort.
1月30日前后，何辉出现咳嗽、发烧等症状，后在华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院做核酸检测，结果为双阳，2月2日晚转院到同济医院中法新城院区。
On or about January 30, Ho Hui developed cough, fever and other symptoms. He was tested for nucleic acid at Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
2月3日16时，何辉因救治无效在武汉同济医院中法新城院区去世。
Feb. 3 at 16: 00, Ho Hui for treatment invalid in Wuhan Tongji Hospital in France Xincheng district died.
在这场疫情中，所有逝者都值得被记住姓名。
In this epidemic, all those who have died deserve to be remembered.
我们在此仅用记录的方式对在这次疫情中逝去的医务工作者和医学领域的学者表达敬意。
We are here only to record our respect for the medical workers and scholars in the field of medicine who perished in the epidemic.
梁武东 62岁湖北省中西医结合医院(新华医院)耳鼻喉科原主任医师梁武东擅长显微耳神经外科、鼻内窥镜微创手术、鼾症、小儿耳鼻咽喉疾病、嗓音疾病的内外科治疗。
Liang Wudong, 62 years old, is a former chief physician in the department of otolaryngology of Hubei Province (Xinhua Hospital). Liang Wudong specializes in microsurgery, nasal endoscopic minimally invasive surgery, snoring, otorhinopharyngeal diseases and voice diseases.
鼾症喉癌功能性手术技术精湛，对分泌性中耳炎治疗方法独特，在嗓音内外科矫治领域颇有心得。
The functional operation technique of snoring laryngeal carcinoma is superb, the treatment of secretory otitis media is unique, in the field of voice surgery correction is quite knowledgeable.
1月16日，梁武东疑似感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，18日，其转到金银潭医院就诊。
January 16, Liang Wudong suspected to be infected with a new coronavirus pneumonia, 18, its transfer to the gold and silver pool hospital.
后经救治无效，梁武东于2020年1月25日早上7时许去世。
After treatment was ineffective, Liang Wudong died at about 7 a.m. on January 25, 2020.
李文亮 34岁武汉市中心医院眼科医生、抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎一线医生，因最早于2019年12月30日向外界发出防护预警，而被称为疫情“吹哨人”。
Li Wenliang, 34, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital and a front-line doctor fighting the new coronavirus pneumonia, is known as the "whistle blower" for the outbreak, as early as December 30, 2019.
李文亮2011年毕业于武汉大学，医学博士，湖北省眼科协会委员，参与国家自然科学基金、武汉大学基金等科研项目，从事眼科临床工作多年，擅长眼底病、白内障、青光眼的诊治。
Li Wenliang graduated from Wuhan University in 2011. He holds a PhD in medicine and is a member of the Hubei Ophthalmology Association. He has been engaged in ophthalmological clinical work for many years, specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of fundus diseases, cataracts and glaucoma.
发表SCI等高水平论文多篇，现就职于武汉市中心医院眼科，对眼科的常见病特别是疑难病诊治精确，每周六日坐诊。
I have published many high-level papers, such as SCI, now work in Wuhan city central hospital ophthalmology, eye common diseases, especially difficult diseases, accurate diagnosis and treatment, six days a week.
1月8日，因接诊一位女性患者时未做特殊防护，李文亮感染了新型冠状病毒性肺炎。
On January 8, Li Wenliang contracted a new coronavirus pneumonia after receiving a female patient without special protection.
李文亮于1月10日出现咳嗽症状，11日开始发热，12日住院，14日因病情加重转入呼吸内科重症监护室，采用抗生素、激素、抗病毒类药物和高流量吸氧治疗。
Li Wenliang on January 10 cough symptoms, 11 began fever, 12 days of hospitalization, 14 days due to the aggravation of the disease into the intensive care unit of respiratory medicine, antibiotics, hormones, antiviral drugs and high-volume oxygen treatment.
2月1日李文亮确诊新冠肺炎，住院期间其病情时常反复。
On February 1, Li Wenliang confirmed the new crown pneumonia, his condition is often repeated in hospital.
2月6日晚上9时左右，有媒体发布了李文亮去世的消息，同时也有消息称李文亮正在接受ECMO抢救，7日0点38分，武汉中心医院官微发布消息表示，李文亮医生“目前病危，正在全力抢救中”。
On February 6 around 9 p.m., the media announced the death of Li Wenliang, there is also news that Li Wenliang is receiving ECMO rescue, 7 0: 38, Wuhan Central Hospital micro-issued a message that Dr. Lee "is critically ill, is in full rescue.
据官方消息，2月7日凌晨2点58分，李文亮经抢救无效在武汉中心医院去世。
According to official sources, Li Wenliang died in Wuhan Central Hospital at 2: 58 a.m. on February 7 after receiving rescue efforts.
红凌 53岁华中科技大学生命科学与技术学院教授、博士生导师、楚天学者（特聘教授）、中国抗癌协会纳米肿瘤学会委员、中国稀有疾病研究联盟全国协调主任。
Hongling 53-year-old Professor, Ph.D. Tutor, Chu Tian Scholar, Member of the Chinese Association Against Cancer Nano-Oncology, National Coordination Director of the China Rare Diseases Research Alliance.
2007年，红凌接受华中科技大学的邀请，出任生命科学与技术学院教授、博士生导师，毕生以模式动物果蝇和人体细胞为模型，研究人体重大疾病如肿瘤、心血管疾病等的基因和蛋白调控机制及调控网络，主要研究与人体重大疾病及稀有疾病相关的基因UBIAD1的分子机制，在该研究领域做出了重大贡献。
In 2007, Hong Ling accepted an invitation from Huazhong University of Science and Technology to become a professor and doctoral supervisor of the School of Life Sciences and Technology. She has devoted her whole life to studying the regulatory mechanisms and networks of genes and proteins in major human diseases such as tumours and cardiovascular diseases.
红凌教授因患新冠肺炎医治无效，于2020年2月7日23时在协和医院逝世。
Professor Hong Ling died at Concorde Hospital on February 7, 2020 at 2300 hours after failing to treat her new crown pneumonia.
林正斌 63岁中国知名移植专家、华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院器官移植科原副主任医师林正斌于1983年获得临床医学学士学位，毕业后一直在同济医院器官移植研究所工作，曾赴日本金泽医科大学进修学习，于2017年7月退休并返聘。
Lin Zhengbin, a 63-year-old well-known transplant specialist in China and former deputy director of organ transplantation at Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, received his bachelor's degree in clinical medicine in 1983.
曾担任武汉医学会器官移植分会副主任委员。
Has served as Wuhan Medical Association organ transplant branch vice-chairman.
林正斌从事器官移植近四十年，在肾移植手术、术后管理和危重病人救治方面成绩显著，曾在新型免疫抑制剂的应用和器官保存液的研发方面贡献突出。
Lin Zhengbin has been engaged in organ transplantation for nearly 40 years. He has made remarkable achievements in kidney transplantation, post-operative management and treatment of critically ill patients.
据南方都市报消息，林正斌被感染前仍在工作， 直至1月24日林正斌仍在家隔离治疗，之后病情未见好转才住院治疗，具体何时、如何被感染尚且不知，他的家人也因感染新冠肺炎正在治疗中。
Lin was still at work until January 24, when and how he became infected, and his family is being treated for pneumonia, according to the Southern Metropolis Daily.
2月10日11时，林正斌经华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院全力抢救无效去世。
February 10 11: 00, Lin Zhengbin Huazhong University of Science and Technology Tongji Hospital attached to the Tongji Hospital died.
许德甫62岁中医主任医师、鄂州名医、湖北中医药大学兼职教授、北京中医药大学付延龄医学研究中心研究员、湖北省中医中药学会脾胃病专业委员会常务委员、鄂州市中医中药学会常务理事。
Xu Defu, 62, chief physician of TCM, an adjunct professor at Hubei University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, a researcher at Fu Longying Medical Research Center of Beijing TCM University, Standing Committee Member of Spleen and Gastric Disease Committee of Hubei Traditional Chinese Medicine Society, and Managing Director of Huzhou Traditional Chinese Medicine Society.
在长期临床实践中，逐步摸索了一套临床经验，形成自身的医疗特色，临床用药灵活，以廉、简、便、验见长，对疑难杂症的诊治颇有心得，特别是对肝胆脾胃病的诊治有独到之处，对胃病、消化道、糖尿病等疾病的治疗亦经验丰富。
In the long-term clinical practice, gradually grope for a set of clinical experience, form their own medical characteristics, clinical drug use flexibility, to save money, simple, convenient, long-term experience, the diagnosis and treatment of difficult diseases, especially the liver, gallbladder, stomach disease, treatment of stomach, digestive tract, diabetes and other diseases has unique experience.
发表学术论文50余篇，出版《中西药不合理联用150例》、《中西医结合治疗常见肿瘤的良方妙法》等专著8部。
More than 50 academic papers have been published, including 150 cases of unreasonable use of Chinese and Western medicine, and 8 monographs on the combination of traditional Chinese and Western medicine in the treatment of common cancers.
2020年2月13日，许德甫因感染新型冠状病毒肺炎去世。
On February 13, 2020, Xu Defu died of pneumonia, a new coronavirus.
柳帆 59岁武汉武昌医院梨园街社区卫生院服务中心注射室护士2月15日，武汉武昌医院发布消息称，因年资较长，柳帆没有被安排去发热门诊导医台，预检分诊台等一线工作，始终在社区从事注射工作。
Liu Fan 59-year-old Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Li Yuen Street Community Health Center Injection Room Nurse, Wuhan Wuchang Hospital said Feb. 15, because of the long experience, willow sail has not been arranged to heat out-patient clinic, pre-check-up clinic and other frontline work, always doing injection work in the community.
据悉，柳帆在生前主动申请了延迟退休。
It is reported that Liufan in his own initiative to apply for delayed retirement.
2月14日17：30左右，柳帆出现心脏骤停，后于18：30左右因抢救无效去世。
February 14 around 17: 30, willow sail suddenly stopped heart, and then around 18: 30 because rescue failed to die.
段正澄 86岁中国工程院院士、华中科技大学机械科学与工程学院教授、制造装备数字化国家工程研究中心首席科学家、机械制造与自动化专家。
Duan Zhengcheng 86-year-old academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, Professor of Mechanical Science and Engineering of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Chief Scientist, National Engineering Research Center for Digitalization of Manufacturing Equipment, Expert in Mechanical Manufacturing and Automation.
1996年，段正澄将机械科学与放疗医学相结合，研发了国际首台全身伽马刀。
In 1996, Duan Zhengcheng combined mechanical science with radiotherapy to develop the world's first full-body gamma knife.
1999年，段正澄研发的世界首台大型放疗设备——全身伽马刀问世，全身伽马刀可进行旋转动态聚焦，使伽马射线焦点对准经过精密定位后的肿瘤，从而杀死肿瘤细胞，大大降低对人体正常组织和器官的损伤。
In 1999, Danzheng Cheng-cheng developed the world's first large-scale radiotherapy device, the gamma knife, which rotates and focuses gamma rays on precisely located tumors, killing tumor cells and greatly reducing damage to normal tissues and organs.
目前已在全国100多家医院使用，惠及近百万人。
It is now in use in more than 100 hospitals throughout the country, benefiting nearly 1 million people.
段正澄教授于1月29日确诊了新型冠状病毒肺炎，其本身患有糖尿病等基础疾病，最终因医治无效，于2月15日19时35分在医院逝世。
Professor Duan Zhengcheng confirmed the case of a new coronavirus pneumonia on January 29. He suffered from basic diseases such as diabetes and died at 19: 35 on February 15 due to ineffective medical treatment.
2月16日，全国第1、第2例新冠肺炎逝世患者的遗体解剖工作在武汉金银潭医院完成，并成功拿到新冠肺炎病理。
On February 16, the autopsy of the remains of the nation's first and second cases of death from Newcrown Pneumonia was completed at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
由解剖获得的新冠肺炎病理，对于探索新冠肺炎患者临床的病理改变，疾病机制等有重大帮助，并能从根本上寻找新冠肺炎的致病性，致死性，给未来临床治疗危重症患者提供依据。
The pathology of new crown pneumonia obtained from anatomy is of great help in exploring the pathologic changes and disease mechanism of patients with new crown pneumonia, and can fundamentally find out the pathogenicity and fatal nature of the new crown pneumonia, and provide evidence for future clinical treatment of critically ill patients.
我们同样向这两位捐献者及家属致敬。
We also pay tribute to the two donors and their families.
*统计截至2020年2月16日。
* Statistics as at 16 February 2020.
统计如有错漏，请不吝指正补充。
If the statistics have errors and omissions, please do not hesitate to add.
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 那些救人的人走了。
Special Report # 124; Those who saved lives have gone.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 那些救人的人走了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; special report & # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by those who rescued.
var msg_desc = "在这场疫情中，所有逝者都值得被记住姓名。
var msg _ desc = & quot; In this outbreak, all those who perished deserve to be remembered.
我们在此仅用记录的方式对在这次疫情中逝去的医务工作者和医学领域的学者表达敬意。
We are here only to record our respect for the medical workers and scholars in the field of medicine who perished in the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
