肺炎疫情亟需心理干预：“处理恐慌也是重大任务”。
Pneumonia requires urgent psychological intervention: "Tackling panic is also a major task."
马肃平。
Mashuping.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医护人员为病人治疗。
On January 24, 2020, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital in the intensive care unit, hospital staff for patients.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共3298字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3298 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
有医生刚脱下工作服，巨大的压力让其瞬间变身“小女生”坐在房间里嚎啕大哭，对于此类采用情绪支持治疗，多一些陪伴和聆听，帮助他们宣泄情绪；有不知如何宣泄情绪的医生，表面上看一切正常，却因不能休息、无法轮换，出现急性“应激障碍”，严重失眠导致无法正常上班，对于此类医生，他们开出了抗焦虑药。
Doctors who have just taken off their work clothes and become "little girls" and start wailing in their rooms are prescribed anti-anxiety drugs for doctors who use emotional support therapy, more companionship and listening to help them vent their emotions, and doctors who do not know how to express their emotions but are unable to rest and rotate.
武汉市民以两种心理问题居多：一种是“疑病症”，即就医检查显示“没有异常”，但仍不能打消顾虑，常伴有焦虑；一种是“强迫性恐惧”，防疫物资一应俱全，但依然有一种难以抗拒的恐惧。
Wuhan city people with two psychological problems: a "hypochondriac," that is, a medical examination showed "no abnormality," but still can not remove concerns, often accompanied by anxiety; one is "compulsive fear," the epidemic prevention materials are available, but there is still an irresistible fear.
武汉之外，普通公众看到疫情的现状后，因为共情和同理心，间接导致身心出现困扰，甚至精神崩溃，形成“替代性创伤”。
Wuhan, the general public to see the epidemic situation, because of empathy and empathy, indirectly lead to physical and psychological distress, or even mental collapse, the formation of "alternative trauma."
北京大学副教授、学生心理健康教育与咨询中心副主任徐凯文告诉南方周末记者，他即将参加中国心理学会组织召开的紧急会议，“会议就是应对这次疫情的，处理恐慌也是重要任务”。
Xu Kevin, associate professor at Peking University and deputy director of the Student Mental Health Education and Counseling Center, told Southern Weekend that he would attend an emergency meeting organized by the Chinese Psychological Association.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平责任编辑 |曹海东“你知道不被需要是怎样一种滋味吗？”农历鼠年前几天，湖北省心理咨询师协会会长、武汉大学中南医院神经内科主任医师肖劲松接到一个电话，来电者是一位医生，刚被确诊感染了新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Do you know what it's like not to be needed? A few days before the Lunar New Year of the Rat, Xiao Jinsong, director of neurology at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital and head of neurology at Wuhan University, received a call from a doctor recently diagnosed with new coronavirus pneumonia.
当时，中南医院床位极度紧张，连被感染的医生都收不进，只能自我隔离在朋友提供的一间无人居住的房子里，空调和暖气都没有。
At the time, the hospital bed was so tight that even the infected doctors could not get in, and they had to isolate themselves in an unoccupied house provided by a friend, with no air conditioning or heating.
家人的电话接踵而至，指责这位医生把病毒带回了家，让家人也面临被感染的风险。
Family calls followed, accusing the doctor of bringing the virus home and putting his family at risk of infection.
满腹委屈、无助、内疚……种种情绪涌上心头，她拨通了肖劲松的电话，倾诉“不被需要的痛苦”。
Full of grievances, helplessness, guilt... A variety of emotions surged in her heart, she dialed Xiao Jinsong's phone, said "do not need pain."
疫情暴发，人们不光面临生理上的挑战，还有心理上的困惑——患者被迫离开熟悉的环境，被送到封闭的病房中接受治疗，无亲友陪伴，住院期间很可能出现焦虑、恐慌、恐惧、易激怒等心理反应；超负荷的运转，也容易让医生焦虑、抑郁，进而影响睡眠饮食和工作状态。
The outbreak is not only physically challenging, but also psychologically confusing - patients are forced to leave their familiar surroundings, are treated in closed wards, are not accompanied by family and friends, and are likely to experience anxiety, panic, fear, and irritability during hospitalization.
目前，武汉肺炎疫情还处于紧急救治阶段，很少有人关注医患双方和普通市民的心理状态。
At present, Wuhan pneumonia epidemic is still in the emergency treatment stage, few people pay attention to the psychological state of both patients and the general public.
2020年1月25日晚，武汉市精神卫生中心的一位工作人员透露，不少民间机构及本地的心理咨询师已和精神卫生中心联系，主动请缨，希望投入到此次疫情的心理干预中。
On the night of January 25, 2020, a staff member of Wuhan Mental Health Center said many non-governmental organizations and local psychologists had contacted the Mental Health Center and offered to invest in psychological intervention in the outbreak.
1 “压力山大”的医生，褪下战袍也是血肉之躯新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情发生后，心理创伤之深超乎肖劲松的想象。
"Pressure mountain big" doctor, melts down the war robe is also the flesh of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia outbreak, the psychological trauma beyond Xiao Jinsong's imagination.
每天，他总能接到四五个医生打来的电话。
Every day, he would receive four or five calls from doctors.
有医生刚脱下工作服，巨大的压力让她再也忍不住，瞬间变身“小女生”坐在房间里嚎啕大哭。
A doctor has just taken off her work clothes, tremendous pressure let her can not help but turn into a "little girl" sitting in the room wailing loudly.
有不知如何宣泄情绪的医生，表面上看一切正常，却因长时间不能休息、无法轮换，出现急性“应激障碍”，严重失眠导致无法正常上班。
There are doctors who do not know how to vent their emotions, ostensibly all right, but due to a long time can not rest, unable to rotate, there is an acute "stress disorder," serious insomnia caused normal work.
疫情防控和医疗系统压力倍增，供需矛盾一度增加。
Disease control and medical system pressure doubled, supply and demand for a while increased.
发热门诊排起了长队，一些医院的等候时间长达3-4小时。
There are long queues at fever clinics and waiting periods of up to three to four hours in some hospitals.
患者的情绪波动，让医生成了“撒气筒”，“有患者等得不耐烦，冲上前一把摘下医生的口罩，朝医生脸上吐唾沫，嚷嚷着 ‘你不让我活，那就让我们一起死’。
The patient's mood swings made him a "gas canister." "Some patients, impatient, rushed forward to take off the doctor's mask and spit in the doctor's face, shouting, 'If you don't let me live, let's die together'.
”肖劲松说，个别情绪不稳定的患者被确诊后出现恐惧、愤怒甚至绝望心态，撕扯医生的防护服，“凭什么你可以穿着防护服？要死一起死”。
"Individual patients with unstable emotions develop fear, anger and even despair when diagnosed, tearing apart doctors' protective clothing," What makes you wear protective clothing? Die together, "Xiao said.
在肖劲松看来，嚎啕大哭反倒是件好事。
To Xiao Jinsong, wailing was a good thing.
对于这类医生，他和其他同事采用了情绪支持治疗，多一些陪伴和聆听，帮助他们宣泄情绪。
For such doctors, he and other colleagues use emotional support therapy, more companionship and listening to help them vent their emotions.
对于应激障碍的医生，他们开出了抗焦虑药。
For doctors with stress disorder, they prescribed anti-anxiety drugs.
作为普通人的医生，褪下战袍也只是血肉之躯。
As an ordinary doctor, it is only flesh and blood to take off a war robe.
巨大的工作压力之下，很多人可能已经濒临体力和心理的极限。
Under the pressure of work, many people may already be at the edge of their physical and mental capacities.
世界卫生组织于2013年发布的《现场工作者心理急救指南》提到，一线施助者需要考虑如何更好管理自身压力，比如尽可能保持合理的工作时间，危机急性期轮班工作、规律作息；允许自己有一些负面的情绪，表达和疏泄出来；巩固和完善自身的社会支持系统，和亲友或其他值得信赖的人交谈。
The World Health Organization's 2013 Guide to Psychosocial First Aid for Field Workers notes that frontline providers need to consider how they can better manage their stress, such as keeping their working hours as reasonable as possible, working shifts and working regularly during acute crises, allowing themselves to have some negative emotions, expressing and draining, and strengthening and perfecting their social support systems and talking to friends or other trusted people.
南方周末记者了解到，武汉同济医院已在医护人员中开设了心理咨询的微信群。
Southern Weekend reporter learned that Wuhan Tongji Hospital has opened the medical staff of the micro-faith group of psychological counseling.
此外，1月25日，武汉市社会工作联合会通过微信公号“武汉社工”发布通知，招募专业社工，计划通过微信群从早8时到24时向医护人员提供心理疏导、减压服务，每个微信群配备20-30名专业社工。
In addition, on January 25, the Wuhan Social Work Federation issued a notice to recruit professional social workers through the official Wuhan Social Work Association, which plans to provide psychological guidance and stress-relief services to medical personnel from 8: 00 a.m. to 24: 00 a.m. by micro-letter groups, each staffed by 20-30 professional social workers.
目前，“武汉社工医护人员支持”1群、2群已经分别组建。
At present, Wuhan Social Workers Support Group 1 and Group 2 have been set up separately.
2过度恐慌是最大的问题疫病流行时期，市民们比平时更加脆弱敏感。
Excessive panic is the biggest problem Epidemic period, when citizens are more vulnerable and sensitive than usual.
口罩漏了一条小缝、不小心摸了下眼睛，都可能让有些人觉得疾病将至。
A small slit in the mask and a careless touch of the eye can make some people think the disease is coming.
2020年1月24日，武汉市开通两部心理热线为市民解压，防止“病毒未来，心态先崩”。
On January 24, 2020, Wuhan opened two psychological hotlines for citizens to relieve pressure to prevent "the future of the virus, mentality first collapse."
这两部免费的心理热线分别由武汉市精神卫生中心（027-85844666）和湖北省心理咨询协会（15342296955）坚守。
The two toll-free psychological hotlines are maintained by Wuhan Mental Health Center (027-85844666) and Hubei Psychological Counselling Association (15342296955).
肖劲松告诉南方周末记者，湖北省心理咨询协会的热线上，有三百名心理咨询师为市民解答心理方面的困惑，如果涉及医学诊断，相关问题将汇总至他和另一位医生那里。
Xiao told Southern Weekend reporter that on the hotline of Hubei Psychological Counseling Association, there were 300 counselors who answered psychological questions to the public. If medical diagnosis was involved, the questions would be summed up with him and another doctor.
大年初一这天，湖北省心理咨询协会共接到83个热线电话，心理困扰大部分和过度恐慌有关——有12岁男生诉说去医院没戴口罩，现在偶有乏力感，担心“新冠肺炎”降临到自己头上，和父母待在一起还是害怕；还有感冒症状的人非要通过电话咨询或看门诊医生来排除自己是“新冠肺炎”患者，否则就无法进食和睡眠。
On New Year's Day, the Hubei Psychological Association received 83 telephone hotlines. Most of the psychological distress was related to excessive panic - 12-year-old boys complained about going to the hospital without a mask, and now they are feeling weak, afraid of having to stay with their parents.
肖劲松告诉南方周末记者，这类病人属于“疑病症”，尽管就医检查显示“没有异常”，但仍不能打消顾虑，常伴有焦虑。
Xiao told Southern Weekend reporter that this kind of patient belongs to "hypochondria", although the medical examination shows "no abnormality", but still can not dispel concern, often accompanied by anxiety.
医学上也称为“疾病焦虑障碍”或“躯体症状障碍”。
Medicine is also called "disease anxiety disorder" or "somatic disorder."
另一类常见的是“强迫性恐惧”。
Another common category is "compulsive fear."
有人打来电话，诉说冰箱里空空如也，已经2天没吃东西了，因为害怕感染，不敢下楼采购。
Someone phoned to complain that the refrigerator was empty and had not eaten for two days because of fear of infection.
咨询师询问后发现，男子家中口罩、消毒液等防疫物资一应俱全，但依然有一种难以抗拒的恐惧。
When asked, the consultant found that men's home masks, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention materials are available, but there is still an irresistible fear.
“对于这类患者，我们的方法是建立社会支持系统，比如请家人和他共住。
"For this type of patient, our approach is to build a social support system, such as inviting family members to live with him.
”肖劲松说。
"said Xiao Jinsong.
当重大疫情来临时，被传染的不仅是病毒，还有恐慌。
When a major outbreak occurs, it is not just the virus that infects, it is the panic.
恐惧和焦虑等情绪如果处理不当，还可能造成抑郁、愤怒，导致应对失当，甚至造成传染等“次生灾害”——负面情绪和恶性行为也会传染。
If not handled properly, emotions such as fear and anxiety can also cause depression, anger, inappropriate responses, and even "secondary disasters," such as contagion - negative emotions and malicious behavior.
1月23日、24日，武汉市精神卫生中心连续两次发布“心理专家给武汉市民的一封信”，鼓励市民正视自己的焦虑和恐惧情绪，主动了解相关知识，同时学会判断和筛选信息来源，避免频繁刷手机和新闻，适度转移注意力。
On January 23 and 24, the Wuhan Mental Health Center issued two consecutive "letters from psychological experts to citizens of Wuhan city" to encourage citizens to face up to their anxiety and fear, learn about the relevant knowledge, and learn how to judge and screen the source of information.
北京大学副教授、学生心理健康教育与咨询中心副主任徐凯文告诉南方周末记者，他即将参加中国心理学会组织召开的紧急会议，“会议就是应对这次疫情的，处理恐慌也是重要任务。
Xu Kevin, associate professor at Peking University and deputy director of the Student Mental Health Education and Counseling Center, told Southern Weekend that he would attend an emergency meeting organized by the Chinese Psychological Association.
”2003年SARS时，在北京大学钱铭怡教授的领导下，SARS心理援助热线开通，为市民提供心理援助和服务。
When SARS was introduced in 2003, under the leadership of Professor Qian Mingyi of Peking University, the SARS Psychological Assistance Hotline was opened to provide psychological assistance and services to the public.
徐凯文建议，政府和各级心理机构要提供远程（电话、网络等）心理疏导服务，让恐慌的情绪有出口，并传递科学、可信的信息。
Xu suggested that the government and psychological organizations at all levels provide long-distance (telephone, Internet, etc.) psychological counseling services to allow panic feelings to be exported, and to convey scientific, credible information.
这样的心理工作，现在可以在全国社会心理服务体系建设的框架下，由各地政府统一组织实施。
This kind of psychological work can now be carried out in the framework of the construction of the national psychosocial services system by the unified organizations of local governments.
3感觉无助沮丧的你，可能受伤了大部分人没有到过武汉及周边疫情严重的地区，也没有亲友被感染，但过载的信息流之下，仍会被不自觉地卷入。
Most people have not been to Wuhan and surrounding areas where the epidemic is serious, and no relatives or friends have been infected, but under the overload of information flow, will still be involuntarily involved.
寒风中排队等待看诊的市民、超负荷运转的一线医护人员，让他们清楚地感觉到“你的痛苦，就是我的伤痛”。
"Your pain is my pain" is clearly felt by the cold line of waiting citizens and overloaded frontline medical staff.
“凌晨一点，我还在给朋友发信息说很难过。
"At 1am, I was still sending a message to my friend that I was sad.
”29岁的上海白领虞琪告诉南方周末记者，她一边看新闻一边哭，没法控制地一直刷手机，总想看看情况是缓解还是更糟糕了。
Yu Qi, a 29-year-old white-collar worker in Shanghai, told Southern Weekend reporter that while watching the news and crying, she couldn't help brushing her mobile phone, always trying to see if the situation was better or worse.
这几天，她经常忍不住心痛哭泣，沮丧和无力感让她深夜也无法入睡，胸闷气短。
These days, she often can't help crying heartache, depression and powerlessness so that she can not sleep late at night, breasts short.
普通公众看到武汉疫情的现状后，也会有恐慌和应激反应，“这叫替代性创伤。
When the general public sees Wuhan epidemic situation, there will also be panic and stress response, "this is called alternative trauma.
”徐凯文告诉南方周末记者。
Xu Kevin told Southern Weekend reporter.
这一专有名词最初是指专业的心理咨询师因长期接触来访者，受到了咨访关系的互动影响，导致本人的心理也受到了创伤。
This proper term originally refers to the professional counselors because of the long-term contact with visitors, has been the interaction of the relationship between the two, resulting in their psychological trauma.
现在也指普通人体验到他人所经历的灾难后，因为共情和同理心，间接导致自己的身心出现困扰，甚至精神崩溃。
Now also means that ordinary people experience the disaster experienced by others, because empathy and empathy, indirectly lead to their own physical and mental distress, even the collapse of the spirit.
“照顾好自己，过好自己的生活，这不是罪。
"It is not sin to take care of yourself and live a good life.
”知名心理咨询师武志红在微博上写道，当自我的边界被撕裂，需要拉开一点距离，同时做力所能及的一些帮助，世界会收到你的善意，你不需要虐待自己。
'When your boundaries are torn and you need to pull away a little bit and do what you can to help, the world will receive your goodwill and you don't have to abuse yourself, 'Wu Zhihong, a noted psychologist, wrote on Weibo.
多位专家给出了“自救”提示，减少接触或获取有关灾难的信息，尤其是悲惨的画面信息，尽可能按照习惯的生活方式去生活。
Experts have given "self-help" tips to reduce exposure to or gain access to information about disasters, especially tragic pictures, and to live as habitually as possible.
此外，对灾难带来的情绪情感，不要憋在心里，可以选择信任的家人或朋友分享，也可以通过做自己喜欢的事情来转移注意力。
In addition, don't hold back your emotional feelings about a disaster. Choose to share it with a trusted family member or friend. You can also distract yourself by doing something you love.
武汉之外，甘肃精神卫生防治中心也开通了心理干预热线，有需求的市民可在1月27日、29日拨打0941-4921333，1月26日、28日、30日拨打0931-4925457进行咨询。
Besides Wuhan, the Mental Health Prevention and Control Center in Gansu Province has set up a psychological intervention hotline. Those in need can call 0941-4921333 on January 27 and 29, and 0931-4925457 on January 26, 28 and 30.
北京师范大学学生心理咨询与服务中心开通了专门针对武汉学生的雪绒花心理支持热线，提供心理援助。
Beijing Normal University Student Counseling and Service Center opened a special edelweiss psychological support hotline for Wuhan students to provide psychological assistance.
心理咨询信息平台“Lacan心理”提醒，疫情面前要谨防“冲动型心理援助”，需要评估自身是否具有足够的专业能力和经验，防止汶川地震后“防火防盗防咨询师”的尴尬局面，给疫区群众造成二次创伤。
Psycho-counseling platform "Lacan psychology" warned that the epidemic should be guarded against "impulsive psychological assistance," the need to assess their own professional capacity and experience, to prevent Wenchuan after the earthquake "fire prevention and theft prevention counselors" embarrassing situation, to cause secondary trauma to the affected areas.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎疫情亟需心理干预：“处理恐慌也是重大任务”。
Pneumonia requires urgent psychological intervention: "Tackling panic is also a major task."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "肺炎疫情亟需心理干预：“处理恐慌也是重大任务”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
