疫情下的武汉咖啡馆：就算店垮了，最后一杯咖啡也要给医护人员。
Wuhan Cafe under the epidemic: Even if the shop collapsed, the last cup of coffee to the medical staff.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
Wakanda咖啡，一个在武汉刚刚成立一年多的咖啡品牌。
Wakanda Coffee, a coffee brand founded in Wuhan just over a year ago.
在肺炎疫情蔓延武汉期间，它成为这座城市里唯一还在运营的咖啡馆。
During the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, it became the only coffee shop in the city that was still in operation.
从武汉关闭离汉通道后的第三天起，他们已经为一线的医护人员免费送去了7850杯“武汉拿铁”。
Since Wuhan closed the Han corridor on the third day, they have sent first-line medical personnel free of charge 7, 850 cups of "Wuhan latte."
Wacanda咖啡团队留守的七位咖啡师，年龄跨度从80后到00后，分别来自武汉、郑州和伊朗。
The seven coffee makers left behind by Wacanda's coffee team ranged in age from 80 to 00 and came from Wuhan, Zhengzhou and Iran, respectively.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 解蕾编辑｜胡杰校对| 翟永军►本文约5510字，阅读全文约需11分钟2月14日，情人节当天，武汉几家医院的一线医护人员收到了一份特殊的礼物，一杯咖啡，一支玫瑰，一颗巧克力。
Zhai Yongjun: About 5510 words, it will take about 11 minutes to read the full text. On Valentine's Day, front-line staff at Wuhan hospitals received a special gift, a cup of coffee, a rose, and a chocolate bar.
杯身上还有手写的祝福语。
There is also a handwritten toast on the cup.
情人节当天，咖啡馆收到了网友送来的玫瑰，请他们帮忙送给医护人员。
On Valentine's Day, the cafe received roses from netizens, asking them to help send them to the medical staff.
受访者供图这是Wakanda咖啡团队免费为一线医务人员送咖啡的第20天，从武汉关闭离汉通道后的第三天起，他们已经为一线的医护人员免费送去了7850杯“武汉拿铁”。
Interviewee: This is the 20th day that Wakanda's coffee team delivers free coffee to front-line medical staff. They have delivered 7,850 cups of "Wuhan latte" to front-line staff since the third day of Wuhan's closure.
在情人节这个特殊的日子里，Wakanda团队也特意准备了520杯咖啡和巧克力。
The Wakanda team also prepared 520 cups of coffee and chocolate for Valentine's Day.
玫瑰花是网友寄来的，字条上写着，因为买不到口罩，所以买来了玫瑰花送给白衣天使们。
The roses were sent by netizens. The note said that since they could not buy masks, they bought roses for the angels in white.
Wakanda咖啡，一个在武汉刚刚成立一年多的咖啡品牌。
Wakanda Coffee, a coffee brand founded in Wuhan just over a year ago.
在肺炎疫情蔓延武汉期间，它成为这座城市里唯一还在运营的咖啡馆。
During the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, it became the only coffee shop in the city that was still in operation.
这个团队由留守武汉的七位咖啡师临时组成，年龄跨度从80后到00后，分别来自武汉、郑州和伊朗。
The team, composed of seven Wuhan-based coffeemakers, ranged in age from 80 to 00 and came from Wuhan, Zhengzhou and Iran.
随着媒体的报道，这支团队渐渐被大众所知晓，众多网友在社交媒体上为他们点赞。
As the media reported that the team gradually became known, many netizens praised them on social media.
也有网友留言“待到江城繁花似锦，一定打卡Wakanda。
Also have netizen message "stay to Jiangcheng flowery brocade, certainly hit card Wakanda."
”面对突如其来的如潮好评，大家既兴奋又有些不知所措，作为队伍里两个80后之一的Echo说，“其实也没觉得自己多了不起，多么伟大，我们只是想做一件很酷的事。
Echo, one of the 80 runners in the queue, said: "I don't really think I'm that great or great, we just want to do something cool.
”有的拼尽全力要回来，有的不愿离开1月23日早晨，田亚珍被手机上的一则新闻推送惊到了：武汉市宣布将于今日10点关闭离汉通道。
Some tried their best to get back, others refused to leave January 23 morning, and Tian was startled by a news dispatch on her cell phone: Wuhan announced it would close the Han Channel at 10: 00 today.
各大商城、餐饮、娱乐场所暂停营业。
Major shopping centres, restaurants and entertainment establishments are temporarily closed.
90后姑娘田亚珍是武汉Wakanda轻饮咖啡的老板。
90 girl Tian Yazhen is Wuhan Wakanda light coffee owner.
就在两天前，随着春运返乡潮的开始，Wakanda咖啡馆已经关掉了武汉市内的五家分店，只有光谷店和汉街店还在营业。
Just two days ago, with the start of the spring rush, Wakanda had closed five branches in Wuhan, with the exception of Kwanggu and Han Ji-jie.
七家店的外地员工大多数也踏上了归途。
Most of the outposted staff in seven stores are also on their way home.
其实12月底田亚珍就对“不明肺炎”有所耳闻，但没放在心上。
In fact, Tian Yazhen on the end of December "unknown pneumonia," but did not pay attention to.
“封城”通告一出，这才真正意识到了事情的严重性。
The announcement of the "Sealing of the City" was a real realisation of the seriousness of the matter.
和咖啡馆的几个伙伴商量之后，田亚珍决定关掉汉街店，把那边的牛奶、咖啡豆等物资也拉回光谷店，至少先保住一家店，留守的人聚在一起也相互有个依靠。
After consulting several of her friends at the cafe, Tian decided to close the Hanjie store and pull the milk and coffee beans back to the store, at least to keep one first.
Wakanda咖啡光谷店位于世界城光谷步行街，被各大高校包围，毗邻湖北省中医院、武汉市第三医院光谷院区和中南医院。
Wakanda Coffee Light Grain Shop is located in Light Valley Pedestrian Street in the world city. It is surrounded by universities, adjacent to Hubei Province TCM Hospital, Wuhan Third Hospital Guanggu Campus and Zhongnan Hospital.
学生党、上班族和医生护士构成了消费的主要人群，其中不少医护人员是咖啡的重度消费者。
Student parties, office workers and doctors and nurses make up the bulk of consumption, and many of them are heavy consumers of coffee.
尤其是在夜里，店里总能接到许多来自医院的外卖订单。
Especially at night, the store always receives a lot of take-out orders from hospitals.
1月24日，关闭离汉通道的第二天下午，咖啡馆来了两位戴着口罩的医护人员，他们是店里的老顾客。
On January 24, the afternoon following the closure of the Han corridor, two masked paramedics arrived at the cafe, their regular customers.
工作人员从他们口中得知，医院现在的工作量比之前突然增大了很多，疫情确实比想象中还要严重。
The staff learned from them that the hospital's workload had suddenly increased much more than before and that the outbreak had indeed been more severe than had been thought.
两位医生拿着做好的咖啡走出店门，看着他们离去的背影，大家心里有些不是滋味儿，“医护人员都这么辛苦了，还要亲自出来买咖啡。
The two doctors walked out of the store with the coffee they had made, and looked after them as they left. There was something fishy in their hearts. "The paramedics have worked so hard and have to go out and buy coffee themselves
”田亚珍说，当天晚上，几个人在店里开了一个小会。
"Tian said several people held a small meeting in the store that evening.
“不能在家坐以待毙。
"Not at home.
大家都痛快地决定了，给医护人员做公益咖啡！”说干就干，一直是这个年轻团队的行事风格。
Everybody decided to make a good cup of coffee for the paramedics! Stick to it, it's always been the style of the young team.
田亚珍在工作群里发了一条信息，“谁要来光谷做咖啡，中午要送200杯咖啡给湖北省中医院的医生护士白衣天使们。
"Anyone coming to Guanggu to make coffee and sending 200 cups of coffee at noon to the white-clad angels and doctors and nurses at Hubei traditional Chinese hospital" sent a message from Tian Yazhen.
”没有想到的是，留在武汉的小伙伴纷纷报名，远在成都旅游的小豪也表示要加入。
"What did not think is that the small partners left in Wuhan have signed up, as far away as Chengdu tour Xiaohao also said to join.
而彼时武汉的疫情已经开始大面积暴发。
By that time, the outbreak in Wuhan had begun to spread.
小豪是武汉人，00后，是这个七人团队里最年轻的咖啡师。
Xiao Hao, a Wuhan native, is the youngest coffeemaker on the seven-person team.
“武汉的小伙伴们都开始响应了，我想着成都离武汉也不远，然后也立刻响应。
"Wuhan's small partners began to respond, I think Chengdu is not far from Wuhan, and then immediately respond.
”大家都劝他不要回去，小豪却很坚持，“在这种时候，还是想和家人、小伙伴在一起。
"Everyone told him not to go back, but Howe insisted." At this point, I still want to spend time with my family and friends.
”于是，在五百万人相继离开武汉后，逆着人潮，小豪踏上了艰难的返乡路。
"So, five million people left Wuhan, against the tide of people, small Howell embarked on a difficult return road.
先是预订的25号航班因肺炎疫情被取消，后来他坐高铁到达潜江时，发现去武汉的高铁也被取消。
First scheduled flight 25 was canceled because of pneumonia, but when he arrived at the river by high-speed rail, he found that the high-speed train to Wuhan was cancelled.
最后家人从武汉开车去潜江接上了小豪。
Finally, the family from Wuhan driving to the Qianjiang connected to Xiaohao.
来回六个小时后，26日凌晨，小豪终于平安回到了武汉。
Six hours back and forth, in the early morning of the 26th, Xiao Hao finally returned to Wuhan safely.
咖啡店的另一位伊朗咖啡师Sina也选择留在武汉，和伙伴们在一起。
Sina, another Iranian coffee maker at the cafe, also chose to stay with her friends in Wuhan.
员工们在专心准备咖啡。
The employees are concentrating on preparing the coffee.
受访者供图两年前，出于对中国的喜爱，27岁的Sina从伊朗来到了刚刚开业的Wakanda咖啡馆。
Sina, 27, moved from Iran to the newly opened Wakanda Cafe just two years ago out of love for China.
Sina的主要工作是做咖啡和教新人做拉花，他做的拉花成为了店里咖啡的颜值担当。
Sina's main job is to make coffee and teach new people to make pull flowers, which he makes into the face value of the store's coffee.
2月2日，Sina接到了伊朗国家大使馆的消息，近日伊朗要派遣专机接滞留在中国的伊朗公民回国。
On February 2, Sina received word from the Iranian embassy that Iran was sending a special plane to take Iranian nationals stranded in China home.
而从疫情暴发以来，Sina远在伊朗的家人也一直希望他能尽快回国，店里的伙伴也在劝他回去。
Since the outbreak, Sina's family in Iran has been hoping that he can return home as soon as possible, and the store's partners are urging him to return.
几番思考后，Sina还是选择留在武汉。
After much thought, Sina chose to stay in Wuhan.
“外国人可以离开武汉、离开中国，但中国人呢，他们有机会选择离开武汉、离开中国吗？他们不能，因为这是他们的家。
"Foreigners can leave Wuhan and China, but what about the Chinese, who have the choice to leave Wuhan and China? They can't because this is their home.
而这里，现在也是我的第二个家。
And here, too, is my second home.
”“在电影里我们看过许多拯救人类的超级英雄，但在真实的世界里，这些医生和护士就是超级英雄。
"" We've seen a lot of superheroes in the movies, but in the real world, these doctors and nurses are superheroes.
”在一条朋友圈里，Sina写下了这句话，配图是一张给医护人员送咖啡的照片。
"In a circle of friends, Sina wrote this sentence, paired with a picture of a paramedics coffee.
每天五百杯“武汉拿铁”送往医院1月26日早晨九点半，田亚珍和三位咖啡师准时到达咖啡店。
Five hundred cups of Wuhan latte were taken to the hospital at 9: 30 a.m. January 26. Tian and three coffee makers arrived at the cafe on time.
数量是提前一天跟医院沟通好的，一天五百杯咖啡分上午和下午两批完成。
The quantity is communicated with the hospital one day in advance. Five hundred cups of coffee a day are made in two batches: morning and afternoon.
一个医院的老顾客看到田亚珍在朋友圈里说想要免费为医护人员送咖啡，主动帮忙联系了医院，对方表示如果能喝到他们做的咖啡是件很幸福的事情。
Tian Yazhen, an old hospital customer who saw her in a circle of friends saying she wanted to give free coffee to paramedics, offered to contact the hospital and said it would be nice if they could drink their coffee.
收到这个答复后，大家都特别激动。
On receiving this reply, everyone was particularly excited.
“有时候做公益不是说你想做就做了，也得看看人家到底有没有这种需求，不然好心办坏事，对医院来讲也是一种压力。
"Sometimes doing good deeds doesn't mean doing what you want to do. You have to see if people really want to do it or else doing good deeds can be stressful for hospitals.
”Echo说。
"said Echo.
一天五百杯的量和平时差不多，但是医生们现在只有午饭和晚饭时间可以休息，所以必须要在这两个时间段内把咖啡送到医院。
The number of cups a day is about the same as usual, but the doctors now only have lunch and dinner time, so they have to deliver coffee to the hospital during those two periods.
对Wakanda咖啡团队来说，这也是一场考验。
It was also a test for Wakanda's coffee team.
磨豆、压粉、萃取、打奶、打包配送，Wakanda的员工自动形成了一道流水生产线。
Peas, pulverized powder, extraction, milking, packaging and distribution, Wakanda's staff automatically formed a production line.
采用和平时一样的制作工艺，省去耗时的拉花环节，其他保持不变。
Use the same production process as usual, save time-consuming pull flower link, other keep the same.
上午批的三百杯咖啡要在一个半小时内制作完成。
The three hundred cups of coffee ordered this morning will be finished in an hour and a half.
虽然时间紧迫，但既要保证速度，也要保证品质。
Although the time is tight, we should ensure both speed and quality.
为此，田亚珍之前做了很多细致的功课。
For this reason, Tian Yazhen has done a lot of careful homework before.
比如，选用拿铁而不选用美式的原因是，美式咖啡除了提神也利尿，对于要穿着隔离服连续工作几个小时的医护人员来说极不方便。
For example, the reason why American-style coffee is not only refreshing but also diuretic is extremely inconvenient for health-care workers who have to work in isolation for hours at a time.
此外，做拿铁平时打奶的温度在55℃-65℃之间，口感和营养都是最佳的。
In addition, the latte usually milk temperature between 55 ° C and 65 ° C, the taste and nutrition are the best.
但现在，他们把打奶的温度控制在80℃上下，保证这些咖啡送到医护人员手上时，还是温热的。
But now they keep the temperature around 80 degrees Celsius, making sure the coffee is still warm when it gets to the paramedics.
咖啡做好后，由Echo和段公子在12点前开车送达医院。
After the coffee was ready, Echo and Duan drove to the hospital by 12 o'clock.
Echo和段公子，包揽了每天送咖啡的重任。
Echo and Duan Jie, the daily delivery of coffee is the heavy responsibility.
受访者供图Echo回忆，第一次送咖啡的时候，一靠近医院，不由自主地就安静下来。
The interviewee told Echo that when he first delivered coffee, he was close to the hospital and could not help but calm down.
来来往往的救护车，全副武装的医护人员严阵以待，一条二百米的路要开两三分钟。
Ambulances came and went, heavily armed paramedics stood by, and a 200-metre drive took two or three minutes.
“每次一进去就变得特别乖，像军人听到了军歌一样，那一幕对我们的冲击特别大。
"Every time we go in, we become very good, like a soldier who hears a military song, and it hits us particularly hard.
”咖啡一般放在食堂门口的后勤部，那里集中放置着盒饭、水果等各种物资。
Coffee is usually placed in the logistics department at the entrance to the cafeteria, where boxes of rice, fruit and other materials are centrally placed.
放下咖啡，医院的志愿者全副武装地出来，等着他们隔开一定距离后，才把咖啡装车带走，送往住院部等地。
Put down the coffee, the hospital volunteers came out armed, waiting for them to be separated after a certain distance, before loading coffee carts away, to hospital and other places.
第三天，志愿者看到他们又来送咖啡了，其中有个志愿者阿姨，年龄稍大一点，眼眶像是有些泛红，突然就对他们鞠躬致谢。
On the third day, the volunteers saw that they had returned with coffee. One of them, a volunteer aunt, was a little older and her eyes seemed a little red.
后来小豪也跟着Echo去送过一次咖啡，刚好赶上五六个医护人员来取，交接完咖啡后，“他们五六个人突然就一起冲着我们鞠躬，我们有点不知所措，也给他们鞠躬，告诉他们注意身体。
After the coffee was handed over, "Five or six of them suddenly bowed to us together. We were a little at a loss, and we bowed to them and told them to mind their bodies.
那个场景是我人生中第一次遇见，这辈子都忘不了。
That scene was the first time I met in my life and I will never forget it.
”送到医护人员手里的每一个咖啡杯上都有田亚珍手写的祝福语，“医生最帅”、“护士最美”、“感恩有你”、“武汉加油”，让这一杯定制的咖啡带上每个咖啡师手间的温度。
"Every coffee mug sent to paramedics has Tian Yazhen's handwritten toast," The best doctor, "" Nurse's best, "" Gratitude for You, "" Wuhan refueling, "and let this custom-made cup of coffee take the temperature from each coffee maker's hand.
有时大家还会买些果汁、巧克力随咖啡送去。
Sometimes people buy juice and chocolate and send it along with the coffee.
医护人员偶尔遇到，也会送他们半桶酒精。
Paramedics occasionally give them half a barrel of alcohol.
志愿者把咖啡送去住院部等地分发。
Volunteers send coffee to inpatient departments and other places for distribution.
受访者供图无法当面交流，不少医护人员都会在商家后台留言。
Interviewees are unable to communicate with each other in person, and many health care workers leave messages behind the scenes.
“第一次喝到你们的咖啡是那天穿着防护服上完七个半小时白班，从早上八点一直没喝水没上厕所，回到科室第一件事，看到餐桌上摆了好多咖啡，立即打开一口气就干完一杯。
"The first time I drank your coffee was seven and a half hours a day in protective clothing, didn't drink water from eight in the morning and didn't go to the bathroom.
”“为了照顾不喝咖啡的医护人员，贴心的你们还搭配了果汁。
"" For the sake of the non-coffee medical staff, sweet hearts you have fruit juices.
”田亚珍说，这些回复是对他们最大的鼓励。
Tian said the responses were their greatest encouragement.
随着疫情的持续蔓延，大家得知有很多医院的医护人员也被感染，有些都没有病床，甚至也不能回家自我隔离，只能住在医院，心里很难受。
As the epidemic continues to spread, it has become known that many hospital staff have also been infected, some without beds or even able to return to their homes to isolate themselves and live in hospitals.
田亚珍做出一个决定，要为每天送去的“中国拿铁”改个名字，他们不想煽情，“武汉天使”、“武汉英雄”这些都太肉麻了，于是就直接改名为“武汉拿铁”，这是属于武汉人的咖啡，“我们用店里最宝贵的东西来纪念这些日子。
Tian Yazhen made a decision to change the name of the "Chinese latte" sent to her every day. They did not want to stir up feelings. "Wuhan Angels" and "Wuhan Heroes" were so seedy that they changed their names directly to Wuhan Nathai, the Wuhan people's coffee.
”“即使有一天店垮了，开不下去了，那最后一杯咖啡也一定是送到医护人员手里的。
"" If one day the store broke down and couldn't go on, the last cup of coffee would have gone to the paramedics.
”田亚珍说。
"said Tian.
来自全国各地的“云咖啡”2月9日，Wakanda团队送咖啡的第15天，一篇在咖啡垂直行业媒体公众号上发布的文章，将这家低调的咖啡馆带到公众面前，文章迅速被转载，阅读量一夜破十万。
"Cloud Coffee" The 15th day of the Wakanda team's coffee delivery on Feb. 9, an article published in the Coffee Vertical Industry media public sign brought the low-key coffee shop to the public, where it was quickly reprinted and read more than 100,000 times a night.
有人说这是“普通人的守望相助”，有人说他们是“城市的守护者”，更有许多网友表示“在疫情结束后，一定要去Wakanda打卡。
Some said it was "the watchful eye of ordinary people," others said they were "guardians of the city," and many netizens said "after the epidemic is over, be sure to go to Wakanda to punch a card."
”但也有人说他们是在炒作。
But some say they are hype.
忙着做咖啡的田亚珍和伙伴们并不知道他们已经成为了舆论的焦点。
Tian and her companions, busy making coffee, did not know that they had become the focus of public opinion.
第二天，先后有咖啡豆、牛奶的供应商打来电话，表示要捐助，田亚珍暂时婉拒了，表示店里目前物资还充足，而且武汉现在物流也不方便。
The next day, coffee beans, milk suppliers called, said to donate, Tian declined temporarily, said the store is still adequate supplies, and Wuhan is not convenient logistics.
之前他们每天早上会赶在一家生鲜超市开门的第一时刻，去扫荡当天需要的鲜牛乳。
They used to rush through the opening hours of a fresh supermarket every morning to mop up the fresh milk they needed for the day.
咖啡店的牛奶供应商在知道他们做公益咖啡后，主动捐赠了牛奶和鲜牛乳，一直对接的咖啡豆供应商也赞助了50千克的哥伦比亚咖啡豆。
Milk and fresh milk were donated by the coffee shop's milk supplier, which also sponsored 50 kg of Colombian coffee beans, knowing they were making coffee for the public good.
来自伊朗的咖啡师Sina，不善言辞，但会把手中的每一杯咖啡都做到极致。
Sina, an Iranian coffee maker, can't talk, but will make the most of every cup of coffee in her hand.
受访者供图2月11日早上，田亚珍发现不停有人通过微信和支付宝转账，“我退了他们又转，我再退。
The interviewee told me that on the morning of Feb. 11, Tian Yazhen noticed that people were transferring money through micro-mail and paychecks.
”大众点评上也突然多了一笔资金，还奇怪是哪里来的，后来发现是网友通过大众点评上的“买单”功能来付款的，大多数是20、30、50元这样的金额，也有500、1000元的，来自全国各地，甚至还有台湾的咖啡同行。
There was a sudden increase in the amount of money in the comments, and it was strange where it came from, and it turned out to be paid for by Internet users through the "pay-as-you-go" feature on popular reviews, mostly in the 20, 30 and 50-yuan range, with 500 or 1,000 yuan coming from all over the country and even Taiwan.
后台的订单越来越多，留言也成百上千地增长。
Back-office orders are piling up and messages are growing by the hundreds.
原来，网友自发发起了一场线上买单的捐赠，希望通过网络下单请一线的医生护士喝到一杯热咖啡。
Originally, netizens spontaneously launched an online bill of contributions, hope through the network order to invite the first-line doctors and nurses to drink a cup of hot coffee.
被网友们所称的“云咖啡”就这样诞生了。
What netizens call "cloud coffee" is thus born.
截止到2月15日晚，店里总共收到了13571笔订单，累计为Wakanda咖啡捐赠了163多万元。
By the evening of February 15, the store had received a total of 13,571 orders, with a cumulative donation of over $1.63 million for Wakanda coffee.
面对这个惊人的数字，大家都感到出乎意料的惊喜和感动，“心跳加速，背后像是涌来一股热气，在你身后站了几十万人似的。
"Everyone was surprised and moved by the astonishing number." My heart beat fast and behind me there was a rush of hot air, as if hundreds of thousands of people were standing behind you.
”Echo这样形容自己的感觉。
Echo describes her feelings this way.
在此之前，田亚珍从来没想过会做到哪天。
Until then, Tian Yazhen had never thought of a day.
就是打算一直做下去，直到把七家店的物资都耗光为止。
I'm going to keep doing this until I run out of supplies for seven stores.
但现在看到这么多人说“不希望这么温暖的咖啡店倒闭”，他们决定尽最大所能坚持下去，满足广大网友的心愿，把“云咖啡”送到每一位医护人员手里。
But now that so many people are saying they don't want such a warm coffee shop to fail, they are determined to do their best to meet the wishes of their netizens and deliver the "Cloud Coffee" to every medical worker.
现在店里每天都会记录订单收到的捐赠，“大众点评后台的统计功能很强大很透明，所有订单号都可以查到。
The store now records donations to orders on a daily basis. "The public comment back-office statistics are powerful and transparent, and all order numbers are available."
”田亚珍说。
"said Tian.
除去购买咖啡原物料成本外，其余的资金会一直用来做咖啡，直到疫情结束的那天。
Excluding the cost of purchasing raw coffee, the rest of the money will be used to make coffee until the end of the epidemic.
所有剩余善款，他们会寻找最靠谱的基金会，成立武汉市医护人员专享基金武汉拿铁基金，全部捐赠给奋战在武汉抗疫一线的医护人员，并附上所有留有捐款名字的网友名单。
They will seek out the most reliable foundation, set up Wuhan Medical Personnel Entitlement Fund Wuhan Nathai Fund, all donated to the first-line fight against the disease in Wuhan, and attach a list of all netizens with names of donations.
“特别感激，能拥有这么一群热血又善良的小伙伴”2月17日，武汉大雪后的两天，气温很低，马路上依旧空空荡荡。
"Particularly grateful to have such a group of warm-blooded and kind-hearted partners" February 17, two days after the snow in Wuhan, the temperature is very low, the road is still empty.
经过联系，山东医疗救援队的医护人员也收到了Wakanda送来的“武汉拿铁”，热热的，捂在手里，像是回到了一个寻常的日子。
After contact, Shandong medical rescue team medical personnel also received Wakanda sent "Wuhan Naatel", hot, covering his hands, as if to return to a normal day.
一个医生捧着咖啡，在酒店里，自拍了一张，在朋友圈里写道：胜利之日，一定要去店里喝上一杯。
A doctor holding coffee took a picture of himself in a hotel and wrote in his circle of friends: On the day of victory, be sure to go to the shop and have a drink.
现在，Wakanda团队的免费咖啡已涵盖了周边的三家医院，驰援武汉的一些医疗队也开始联系他们送咖啡。
Now the Wakanda team's free coffee has covered three hospitals around the country, and some medical teams in Wuhan have begun contacting them to deliver coffee.
每一杯咖啡上，除去祝福语外，还会写上捐赠的网友ID名字。
On each cup of coffee, in addition to the toast, but also write the name of a donation ID netizens.
瞒着家里做咖啡的员工也瞒不住了，田亚珍的父母第一时间打来电话让她一定要注意防护，保护好自己。
Tian Yazhen's parents called the first time to let her pay attention to the protection and protect themselves.
家里人明白，女儿决定做的事情，怎么劝也劝不住。
The family understood that what the daughter had decided to do could not be persuaded.
Sina留在武汉做咖啡的事情更是在伊朗国内走红。
The fact that Sina stayed in Wuhan to make coffee was even more popular in Iran.
中国驻伊朗大使常华在社交媒体上公开为Sina点赞，Sina的父母看到新闻才知道真相，他们也被儿子的所作所为感动。
Chinese Ambassador to Iran Changhua publicly praised Sina on social media, Sina's parents saw the news to know the truth, they were also moved by her son's actions.
“我家乡城市有很多人都跑去告诉我妈妈，他们在新闻里看到我在中国所做的事情了，他们特别为我而骄傲。
"A lot of people in my hometown came to tell my mother that they saw what I was doing in China on the news, and they were especially proud of me.
”Sina来武汉两年了，他说自己从来没有见过这样的武汉。
"Sina, who has been in Wuhan for two years, said he had never seen such a city.
2月7日晚上，他坐在房间里，听到窗外有人喊“有没有人”，“还有吗？”从另一栋楼里传出“有”，此起彼伏。
On the night of February 7, while sitting in his room, he heard people yell "Is there anyone else?" From another building came "Yes," one after another.
然后他们开始喊“武汉，加油，武汉加油。
Then they began to shout "Wuhan, Come on, Wuhan Come on.
”其中还有小孩子的声音，他当时几乎要流出眼泪来，“那一刻我被震撼到了，那些声音里带着一种特殊的情感，它们那么动人，那么美丽，成为我生命里最美妙的一次经历。
"And there was the voice of a child, almost ready to cry," I was shocked at that moment, with a special emotion in those voices, so touching, so beautiful, that it was one of the most wonderful experiences of my life.
我会永远记住那个夜晚。
I will always remember that night.
”像许许多多的武汉人一样，大家也都在祈祷，希望疫情尽快结束。
Like so many Wuhan people, everyone is praying that the epidemic will end soon.
武汉土著小豪说，疫情结束的那天，他一定要去吃一碗过早的热干面。
Wuhan native Howe said he must eat a bowl of hot, dry noodles too early on the day the outbreak ends.
Sina说疫情结束之后，他要好好休息一下，如果钱攒够了就开启一段遥远的旅行。
Sina: After the epidemic, he needs a good rest. If he has enough money, he can start a long journey.
田亚珍没有认真想过疫情结束后会做什么，只想做好每天的事，把“武汉拿铁”送到更多的医院去。
Tian Yazhen did not seriously consider the end of the epidemic will do, just want to do a good job every day, "Wuhan latte" sent to more hospitals.
她现在比以前更爱身边的朋友们了。
She loves her friends more than ever.
“特别感激，能拥有这么一群热血又善良的小伙伴。
"Special gratitude to have such a group of warm-blooded and kind-hearted partners.
”在最新的咖啡日记里，她写下了这样一段话：每天在去医院送咖啡的路上，我们看到农民把自己种的菜直接拉到医疗队，小饭馆的老板为医护人员送几百份饭菜，在国外旅行的人直接把一箱箱口罩背回来送到医护人员手里，我们见到了很多抗疫时期的“逆行者”。
In her latest coffee diary, she wrote: "Every day on our way to the hospital to deliver coffee, we see farmers hauling their food directly to the medical team, owners of small restaurants delivering hundreds of meals to medical staff, and travellers abroad bringing boxes of masks straight back into the hands of paramedics.
我们只是做了我们该做的事情，只是一个中国人该有的样子罢了。
We just did what we had to do, just like a Chinese.
洋葱话题▼你想对逆行者们说什么？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读荆州第一例危重症新冠患者的生死十六天支援医院的武汉环卫工：每天处理300桶垃圾对话武汉第一位出院的重症患者：这是我的第二次新生既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell them to go = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的武汉咖啡馆：就算店垮了，最后一杯咖啡也要给医护人员。
Wuhan Cafe under the epidemic: Even if the shop collapsed, the last cup of coffee to the medical staff.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "疫情下的武汉咖啡馆：就算店垮了，最后一杯咖啡也要给医护人员";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“我们只是做了我们该做的事情，只是一个中国人该有的样子罢了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We just did what we should have done, just what a Chinese should have looked like.
”";。
";;
title: '​荆州第一例危重症新冠患者的生死十六天',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '支援医院的武汉环卫工：每天工作16小时，处理300桶垃圾',。
Wuhan sanitation worker who assisted with the hospital: 16 hours a day at & nbsp; 300 barrels of garbage & apos;.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '对话武汉第一位出院的重症患者：这是我的第二次新生',。
Dialogue Script1: Wuhan's first serious patient discharged from hospital: This is my second new born and patient.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
