如果工作做扎实，医护感染至少可以减少很多｜对话吴安华。
If you do a solid job, caring for your infection will at least lessen your chances of success.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
卫健委院感防控专家组成员吴安华，是武汉疫情大规模爆发后最早到达现场的专家之一。
Wu Anhua, a member of the group of experts on prevention and control, was one of the first experts to arrive after the outbreak of Wuhan epidemic.
他也是湖南中南大学湘雅医院感控中心教授，中华预防医学会医院感染控制分会主委。
He is also a professor in Xiangya Hospital Sensibility Control Center of Hunan Zhongnan University and Chairman of Infection Control Branch of Chinese Preventive Medicine Society.
1月21日，他被邀请到武汉指导疫情，消息来得突然，他穿着医院的工作服就出发了——以为疫情并不严重，他只带了一天的换洗衣物，想着很快就能回家过年。
On January 21, he was invited to Wuhan to instruct on the outbreak, and when the news came suddenly, he left wearing hospital overalls - thinking the outbreak was not serious, he had only one day's change and thought he would be home for the New Year.
但没想到，一待就快一个月了。
But I didn't expect to stay for almost a month.
到达武汉的第二天，包括吴安华在内的专家组就参与制定了《医疗机构内新型冠状病毒感染预防与控制技术指南（第一版）》，并在之后不断细化，具体到医用口罩怎么戴、怎么脱，洗手的步骤如何，多位医护人员就餐时该怎么坐，房间门把手和按钮怎么消毒。
On the second day of their arrival in Wuhan, a group of experts including Wu Anhua participated in the formulation of the Guidelines on Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Infection in Medical Institutions (First Edition), which has been refined since then, including details on how to wear a medical mask, how to remove it, how to wash hands, how to sit while many medical workers eat, how to disinfect the door knobs and buttons.
除此之外，吴安华还承担了外地医疗队的感染控制培训工作——所谓感染控制，日常工作包括对医院感染的危险因素检测、分析；指导医院的清洁、消毒灭菌、医疗废物管理；培训医务人员，预防和控制医院感染等等——最忙的一天是大年初一，他给6支队伍分别上课，奔波在不同的驻地，一天跑了270公里。
Wu also provided infection control training for foreign medical teams - so-called infection control, daily work including detection and analysis of hospital infection risk factors, guidance on hospital cleaning, sterilization, medical waste management, training of medical staff, prevention and control of nosocomial infections - the busiest day was New Year's Day, when he taught six teams to travel in different locations for 270 kilometers a day.
2月14日下午，在国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情联防联控机制举行的发布会上，国家卫健委副主任曾益新介绍，截至2月11日24时，全国医务人员确诊新冠肺炎1716例，占全国确诊病例3.8%，其中6人不幸死亡，占全国死亡病例0.4%。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 new cases of coronavirus were diagnosed nationwide, accounting for 3.8 percent of the confirmed cases. Six of them died, accounting for 0.4 percent of the deaths nationwide, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the State Council, said.
湖北医务人员确诊新冠肺炎1502例，其中武汉1102例。
Hubei medical staff diagnosed 1502 new crown pneumonia, among which Wuhan 1102 cases.
在吴安华看来，这本是不该发生的事情。
In Wu's view, this should not have happened.
「我们工作如果做得很扎实的话，至少可以减少很多（医护感染）。
"If we do a good job, we can at least reduce it a lot.
院感这个学科现在已经到了非建设不可的时候了，不能再靠热情、奉献，或者靠出一些事情来推动它。
The time has come for the discipline to be built. It can no longer be driven by enthusiasm, dedication, or something.
」以下是《人物》与吴安华的对话。
The following is a dialogue between People and Wu Anhua.
文｜罗婷编辑｜糖槭《人物》：你是在哪一天到达武汉？吴安华 ：1月21号。
+ g + + + + + + + + +, When did you arrive in Wuhan? Wu Anhua: January 21.
那天我在上班，突然收到通知，没说得特别清楚，就说让我到武汉指导一下感控工作。
I was at work that day, suddenly received a notice, not particularly clear, said let me to Wuhan to guide the sensibility of the work.
我穿着工作服，连棉袄都没有，背着一个小包就上了高铁，包里只装了一天的换洗衣服。
I put on the high-speed rail in my overalls, even my padded jacket, carrying a small bag, which contained only a day's change of clothes.
当时确诊病例还没到1000例，我没想到要在武汉待很长的时间，也没想到疫情会这么厉害，我心想总归要回去的，腊月二十九不回去，腊月三十也会回去的。
At that time, the confirmed cases have not reached 1000 cases, I did not expect to stay in Wuhan for a long time, I did not expect that the epidemic will be so severe, I thought that I will always go back, the 29th of December will not go back, December 30 will go back.
但没想到，后来就封城了，回不去了。
But did not expect, later sealed the city, can not go back.
《人物》：到武汉之后的第一个感受是什么？吴安华：我当天到了防疫指挥部，当时已经有一些专家也来了，第二天我们就到医院去了，到了中南医院和肺科医院，了解了一些整体情况，就发现形势比较严峻，比我们想象中的严峻。
Wu Anhua: I arrived at the anti-epidemic headquarters that day, and some experts had already arrived, and the next day we went to the hospital, to Zhongnan Hospital and Lung Hospital.
首先是病人比较多，我还记得在中南医院ICU我们看到有个医生拄着拐杖上班。
First, there were more patients, and I remember seeing a doctor on crutches at the ICU in Zhongnan Hospital.
你想想，穿着防护服、拄着拐杖上班是什么样子？他们ICU主任说，没有办法，人力太紧张了。
You know what it's like to go to work in protective gear and crutches? They're stressed out, says ICU directors.
怎么形容呢，应该说我来的时候这个疫情正在滚雪球，越滚越大了，而且还不好预见。
How to describe it, I should say that when I came the epidemic was snowballing, getting bigger and bigger, and it was not easy to predict.
那时候谁会预见到这么多病例？这超乎想象。
Who would have foreseen so many cases at that time? It was beyond imagination.
穿着防护服的吴安华图源中南大学湘雅医院新闻《人物》：你们随后开展了什么样的工作？吴安华：首先是开会，小范围开会、和湖北省疾控中心开会，一起讨论对策。
Wu Anhuatuan Xiangya Hospital News "People": What kind of work did you do afterwards? Wu Anhua: First the meeting, the small-scale meeting, and the Hubei CDC to discuss the countermeasures together.
我的重点首先是做一些制度，我和北大第一医院的李六亿教授一起做了一个感染防控的方案，国家卫健委已经发布了。
My priority is to do some system first. Together with Professor Li 600 million from Peking University Hospital No. 1, I have done an infection control program, which the National Health Commission has released.
也和专家们一起开会，讨论怎么把发热门诊理顺，然后就是培训医务人员，这个培训工作一直持续到今天。
Meetings were also held with experts to discuss how to streamline the fever clinic, followed by the training of medical personnel, which continues to this day.
《人物》：当时武汉的发热门诊是一个什么样的状况？吴安华：主要的问题是病人太多了，发热门诊无法承载。
Wu Anhua: The main problem is that there are so many patients that the fever clinic can't bear it.
而且发热门诊的面积就那么大，排的队很长。
And the area of the fever clinic is so large that the queue is long.
当时医生非常累，病人一个接一个停不下来。
The doctor was so tired that one patient after another could not stop.
这个主要矛盾在于，很多病人是需要住院的，但是病床不够，收不进去，都挤在（门诊）这里。
The main problem is that many patients need to be hospitalized, but there are not enough beds to go in and they are crowded here.
后来我们就想多开点门诊，已经开了的门诊也增加一些诊室，就会快一点。
Later we wanted to open more out-patient clinics, which have been opened some more rooms, will be faster.
不然戴了口罩的病人和没戴口罩的病人挤在一起，也容易交叉感染。
Otherwise, patients wearing masks and patients not wearing masks huddled together, but also prone to cross-infection.
《人物》：感染控制一直都是一项很重要的工作，特别是当出现这么重大的传染病，一般感染控制工作的程序是怎样的？吴安华：一般来说会有一个应急预案，但今年的情况太急太严重了，谁也想不到。
What are the procedures for infection control in general? Wu Anhua: There is usually a contingency plan, but this year it is too urgent and too serious for anyone to think about.
我们湘雅的病例比较少，当时还是做了充分的准备，把发热门诊和隔离病房都安排出来了，也安排了人力。
We had relatively few cases in Xiangya, and we made adequate preparations to arrange both the fever clinic and the isolation ward, as well as manpower.
但是防护物资是不够的，我们是储备了一点，但是不多，因为现在老是讲提高效率，要「零库存」，突然有大量的需求，后面也紧张了。
But the protective material is not enough. We have a little bit in reserve, but not much, because we're always talking about efficiency, "zero inventory," and suddenly there's a lot of demand and tension behind it.
《人物》：在医护感染方面，我们也看到了最新公布的数据，全国已有1716名医护人员确诊感染，你觉得这种情况为什么会出现？吴安华：有的病人并不是因为这个病住院的，住院之前其实已经感染了，在住院过程中他才表现出来。
People: When it comes to health care, we also see the latest figures, which show that 1,716 healthcare workers have been diagnosed with the infection nationwide. Why do you think this is happening? Wu Anhua: Some patients are not hospitalized because of the disease, but they are already infected before they are hospitalized.
他表现出来了，但是表现又不典型，我们医护人员很难很早就能识别它，这个疾病本身比较诡异，增加了识别的难度。
He showed it, but it wasn't typical, and it was hard for our paramedics to recognize it early. The disease itself was bizarre and made it more difficult to identify.
再加上又缺乏快速诊断的方法。
This is compounded by a lack of rapid diagnostic methods.
在病人表现出症状前，我们医务人员已经感染了，他们还可以传给其他人，包括家人。
Before the patient shows symptoms, our paramedics are infected and they can pass it on to others, including their families.
这个后果是很严重的。
The consequences are serious.
《人物》：你在了解医护人员感染情况的过程中，有没有印象特别深的事情？吴安华：我只是在想，单单武汉市就超过一千医护感染，一千多人意味着什么？可以单独再开一家医院了。
Wu: I was just thinking that Wuhan alone has more than one thousand medical infections, what does it mean for more than a thousand people? You can open another hospital alone.
而且他们中的很多人都是骨干。
And many of them are the backbone.
到现在为止，离开我们的也有几位了，都是年轻力壮的。
So far, there have been a few left us, all young and strong.
是没有防护条件吗？主要发生在疫情早期，防护物质应该不匮乏呀。
Is there no protection conditions? Mainly in the early stage of the epidemic, protection material should not be scarce.
个中原因，必须深思。
We must reflect on the reasons for this.
而且医务人员感染了，实际上对民众也是个打击，连医生都不能保护自己了，那我们还有救吗？这很打击士气。
And the fact that medical staff are infected is actually a blow to the public, even doctors can not protect themselves, then we can save it? It is demoralizing.
所以感染控制真的还是个特别重要的问题。
So infection control is really a particularly important issue.
吴安华 图源中南大学湘雅医院新闻《人物》：很多人都是在这次疫情中才第一次听说院感科这个科室，院感科在医院里是一个什么样的存在？日常的工作都有哪些？吴安华：院感科在国内应该是90年代开始就有了，真正发文明确是在2006年。
Wu Anhuatuan University Xiangya Hospital News "People": It is in this outbreak that many people first heard of the hospital sensorial department, what is the presence of the hospital? What is the daily work? Wu Anhua: The sensorial departments in China began in the 1990s, the real communication is clearly in 2006.
这是因为SARS之后国家开始反思这个问题，所以发了《医院感染管理办法》，规定病床在100张以上的医院，就应该设立医院感染管理部门。
This is because the country began to rethink the problem after SARS, so the Measures for the Management of Hospital Infections were issued, stipulating that hospitals with more than 100 beds should have hospital infection management departments.
这个办法对院感科的职责有明确界定，一共是12条：包括对医院感染的危险因素检测、分析；指导医院的清洁、消毒灭菌、医疗废物管理；培训医务人员，预防和控制医院感染等等。
This approach clearly defines the duties of the hospital's sensory unit, which consists of 12 articles: including the detection and analysis of risk factors for nosocomial infections; guidance on hospital cleaning, disinfection, sterilization, medical waste management; training of medical personnel; prevention and control of hospital infections, etc.
但实际上，现在也没有人去关注这个办法到底落实得怎么样。
In practice, however, no one is looking at how well this approach is being implemented.
按要求一般每1000张病床至少配4个感染控制人员，但现在有的医院2000张床也只有4个人，他们可能还要承担别的工作。
While it is generally required to have at least four infection control staff for every 1,000 beds, there are hospitals with 2,000 beds for only four people, who may have to take on other duties.
在我看来，院感发展不好，人才不够是根本原因之一。
In my opinion, courtyard development is not good, lack of human resources is one of the root causes.
《人物》：为什么会出现人才不够的状况？吴安华：这是一个人才储备问题。
People: Why is there a shortage of talent? Wu Anhua: It's a matter of talent reserve.
我们国家没有一个专业叫感染控制，所以院感科的工作人员都是从其他专业转过来的。
Our country does not have a professional called infection control, so the hospital sensorial staff are transferred from other professions.
有的人是觉得做这个事情有意义，有的是没地方去了，还有的是觉得院感科很轻松。
Some people think it is meaningful to do this thing, some do not have a place to go, some feel that the Academy is very relaxed.
也正是因为感染控制不是一个专业，院感科的员工没有办法像医生一样晋升，可以从主治医生到副主任医生，你只听说有内科医生、外科医生，没有听说有院感医生吧？所以院感科是很难留住人才的。
Because infection control is not a profession, the staff of the department can not be promoted like doctors, from attending doctors to deputy chief physicians, you only heard that there are physicians, surgeons, there is no hospital doctors, so it is very difficult to retain staff.
人才留不住，队伍都不稳定，你怎么做事情。
Talents don't stay. Teams don't work. What do you do?
《人物》：还有人说它平常是个又花钱又挑毛病的部门。
PEOPLE: Others say it's usually a spendthrift and fault-finding department.
吴安华：对，其实它不是挑毛病，主要目的是提高质量。
Wu Anhua: Yes, in fact it is not fault finding, the main purpose is to improve quality.
它要花钱，但是医院花钱也不是院感科一个科，其他的科也花钱。
It costs money, but hospitals don't spend money on a department of the faculty, and other sections do too.
医院要重视感染控制，不能老是想，平时我能压缩就压缩，能够减少一个人就减少一个人，而是应该按照国家要求，来建设这样一个科室，来扶植它的人才。
Hospitals should attach importance to infection control, can not always think, usually I can compress and compress, can reduce a person, but should be in accordance with national requirements, to build such a section, to foster its talent.
其实这个科还是挣钱的，但是挣钱人家看不到——因为它可以帮医院省钱，预防做得好能省很多钱。
The department still earns money, but no one can see it because it saves money, and prevention saves a lot of money.
《人物》：据你所知，感控体系建设得比较好的国家有哪些？吴安华：美国和英国都还不错。
People: So far as you know, what are the countries that have built up a good sensory system? Wu Anhua: Both the United States and Britain are good.
有时候跟他们交流，他们有一套自己的评价体系，人员怎么培训、怎么晋升，他们的感控部门话语权更大，这是一个逐步建设的过程。
Sometimes they communicate with them, they have their own evaluation system, how to train, how to promote, their sense of control departments have a greater voice, this is a step-by-step process.
像我们国家，去年院感被大家看到了，是因为出了两个事故——一个是广东顺德的新生儿在医院感染，一个是江苏东台69名血透患者，在医院感染丙肝。
Like my own country, the sense of courtyard was seen last year because of two accidents - a hospital infection in Shunde, Guangdong, and 69 hemodialysis patients in Dongtai, Jiangsu, who contracted hepatitis C.
我觉得很悲哀，我们没有一个基础，老是靠这样的方式推动。
I feel very sad, we do not have a foundation, always rely on this way to promote.
《人物》：就像这一次的武汉疫情。
"People": just like this time the Wuhan epidemic.
吴安华：这一次闹得这么大，假如我们这个应急机制比较好、人的意识比较强、措施比较得力，它一定要发展到六万例吗？我们本应该能够让它在一万例的时候就刹车，最多再往外跑一点，跑到一万五。
Wu Anhua: This time around so much, if our emergency mechanism is better, people's awareness is stronger and measures are more effective, must it grow to 60,000 cases? We should have been able to make it brake in 10,000 cases and run out a little further to fifteen thousand.
医护感染也是一样的，我们原来工作如果做得很扎实的话，至少可以减少很多啊。
Healthcare infections are the same, if we did a solid job, at least a lot of ah.
所以院感这个学科现在已经到了非建设不可的时候了，不能再靠人家的热情、奉献，靠出事来推动它。
Therefore, the subject of hospital sense has now to be built, can no longer rely on other people's enthusiasm, dedication, rely on the accident to promote it.
《人物》：后来你也一直在帮医护人员做培训，能否介绍一下这方面的工作？吴安华：我们做培训主要是针对外地到武汉的医疗队，每一支队伍都要做培训。
Wu Anhua: Our training is mainly for medical teams from other places to Wuhan, and each team has to do some training.
我培训的人可能差不多有一万人了。
I might have trained almost ten thousand people.
我每天不停地上课。
I have classes every day.
大年初一那天，我上了六场，跑了270公里，去了六个不同的地方，但是我很感动。
On New Year's Day, I went to six games, 270 kilometers, to six different places, but I was very moved.
为什么感动，因为很多医疗队都是大年三十出发的，年夜饭都没有吃就来了，有上海的、江苏的、广东的医疗队，大家都是没有怨言，说走就走。
Why moved, because many medical teams are set off in the New Year's Eve, dinner did not eat came, there are medical teams in Shanghai, Jiangsu, Guangdong, we are not complaining, walk away.
《人物》：在准备的所有内容里，你觉得最重要、一定会跟他们讲的话是什么？吴安华：每一堂课，我第一个强调的是疫情的严重性和传染性。
What do you think is the most important thing that you will tell them about everything you have prepared? Wu Anhua: At each class, my first point was the severity and infectious nature of the epidemic.
然后会告诉我们的医疗队员，怎么预防感染——最关键的，戴口罩，做手卫生。
Then we tell our medical team how to prevent infection - most importantly, wearing a mask and doing hand hygiene.
我每一堂课就特别强调这两点。
I have placed special emphasis on these two points in every class.
虽然其他措施也重要，但我把这两个作为关键来讲。
While other measures are also important, I regard these two as crucial.
面授的时候我会随机发挥，可以通过举例子，让大家有个深刻的印象。
I will play it at random when I give you face-to-face instruction. I can give you a deep impression by giving examples.
比如说这个口罩，它本来是一个比较好的口罩，像你现在戴的医用防护口罩，它能够阻止0.3微米的颗粒。
This mask, for example, would have been a better mask, like the one you're wearing today, which blocks particles of 0. 3 microns.
0.3微米很小。
0.3 microns very small.
它能够阻止0.3微米的颗粒95%，很好了吧？戴个这么好的口罩，假如你没戴好，没有做密合性实验，它边上漏风了，不仅仅0.3微米可以进去，3个微米都可以进去，10个微米也可以进去。
It can stop particles of 0. 3 microns at 95%, OK? Wear a mask that's good if you don't wear it, don't do a close experiment, it leaks on the side, not only 0.3 microns can go in, 3 microns can go in, 10 microns can go in.
你不做密合性检查，那就等于没有戴。
If you don't do a compactness test, you're not wearing it.
这个有方法的，你一教大家都会做的。
This has a method, you teach everybody to do.
我还告诉他们，千万不要想，我来这里支援一个月，能够减五斤肉，我说如果有这个计划的都要停下来，有减肥的，瘦身的都要停下来。
I also told them not to think, I came here to support for a month, can lose five pounds of meat, I said if there is such a plan to stop, there are weight loss, thin people have to stop.
假如睡不好又吃不好，你抵抗力会下降，很危险。
If you don't sleep well and don't eat well, your resistance will go down and it's dangerous.
吴安华在进行岗前培训图源中南大学湘雅医院新闻《人物》：其实很多医护之前可能从来没接触过这个等级的传染病，也没有做过这个级别的防护，他们都会问些什么样的问题？吴安华：有人会问下班了之后洗澡要洗多长时间？因为有人告诉她要洗半个小时，但其实没这么机械，大致洗干净就好了。
In fact, many doctors and nurses have never been exposed to this level of infectious disease before and have not been protected at this level.Wu Anhua: Some people ask how long they want to take a bath after work? Because someone told her to do it for half an hour, but it's not that mechanical.
还有人问在自己房间里戴不戴口罩？其实我个人认为不需要，但为了引起他们重视，我说看你们自己的习惯，你戴口罩睡觉都可以。
Some people ask if they wear masks in their own room? I personally don't think so, but to get their attention, I say you can sleep with a mask on your own habits.
有了气溶胶传播的说法之后，有人问，在酒店能不能开窗户，每天能开几次、多长时间？这说明大家还是有恐惧的，我就大胆告诉他们，只要你窗外没人咳嗽、打喷嚏，你爱开多久开多久，不是武汉的天空都飘新冠病毒的气溶胶，它已经稀释了。
When asked if and how many times a day windows can be opened at the hotel, I boldly told them that as long as no one coughs or sneezes outside your window, you can drive as long as you like.
他们会提很多很有趣的问题，所以每天上课，尽管辛苦，也很有意思。
They ask a lot of interesting questions, so it's fun to have classes every day, even if it's hard.
《人物》：据我们所知有很多医疗队是立下了零感染的军令状的。
PEOPLE: As far as we know, there are many medical teams that issue zero-infection warrants.
吴安华：是的，但是我也跟他们讲了，如果万一有人发烧了，千万一定要报告，千万不要觉得自己为了表现好，还带病上班。
Wu Anhua: Yes, but I also told them that if anyone has a fever, be sure to report it. Do not feel like you are going to work sick in order to behave well.
我说这个时候你带病上班，不但不要表扬，还要批评。
I said that this time you bring sick to work, not only do not praise, but also criticism.
我每节课都要讲，我很高兴看到你们大家都平平安安来了，我最希望的就是你们大家能够平平安安回去。
I'll tell you every lesson. I'm glad to see you all safe and sound. All I want is for you all to come back in peace.
而且是大家一块回去，不要留下哪一个人还在这里治疗肺炎。
And let's go back together. Don't leave anyone here to treat pneumonia.
他们就会笑。
They would laugh.
到目前为止，外地来支援的医疗队，应该是还没发现一例感染。
So far, the field to support the medical team, should not have found a single infection.
《人物》：今天来之前，我读到华西医院来支援武汉的一位医生的日记，她说也许没有任何一个社会有应对这种传染病的准备，它是持续不断的冲击，对物资、人员的消耗是持续的，且并不知道会有多久。
People: Before I came today, I read the diary of a doctor who came to support Wuhan. She said that perhaps no society is prepared to deal with the epidemic.
我们可以全身而退吗？在这个情况下会感觉人类还是很渺小的。
Can we just walk away from it? In this case, it feels like human beings are tiny.
吴安华：其实也不需要这么说，只要我们有准备，再出现类似的事情，我们一定可以处理得更好。
Wu Anhua: Actually, we don't need to say that, as long as we are prepared and something similar happens again, we can handle it better.
尤其是这些年，比如说登革热、寨卡病毒感染，比如说MERS，还有布尼亚病毒，我们都应对得比较好。
Especially over the years, like dengue fever, Zika virus infections like MERS, and Bunia virus, we have coped well.
其实我们国家前两年做过一次传染病应急演练的，因为是演练，结果当然是不错。
In fact, our country did an infectious disease emergency drill in the last two years, because it is a drill, the results are certainly good.
这一次也不知道为什么，会搞这么大的事情。
I don't know why, but it's such a big deal.
如果早一点控制，尽管当时可能要花很多钱，要花很多人力，但是不管怎么花，你现在想起来都是值得的，永远不要忘记传染病对我们人类的威胁。
If you had controlled it earlier, it might have cost you a lot of money and a lot of manpower, but no matter how much it took, it would have been worth it.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
如果工作做扎实，医护感染至少可以减少很多｜对话吴安华。
If you do a solid job, caring for your infection will at least lessen your chances of success.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "如果工作做扎实，医护感染至少可以减少很多｜对话吴安华";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "永远不要忘记传染病对我们人类的威胁。
var msg _ desc = & quot; never forget the threat that infectious diseases pose to our humanity.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
