那些「隐秘而伟大」的抗疫生活。
Those "secret and great" lives against the plague.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
在淘宝直播上，有一万个隐藏直播间，每天都在发生着一些真实的人间故事。
On the Taobao live broadcast, there are 10,000 hidden direct broadcast, every day a number of real world stories.
这一次，疫情来袭，这些直播间让全国网友在这里观看到最真实，最有用的抗疫生活。
This time, the outbreak hit, these direct network users across the country to see the most real, the most useful anti-epidemic life.
文｜许言编辑｜金石1成冬的司机生活，是从武汉封城那天开始的。
+ yeg + + + + + + + the life of the driver began on the day of the seal of Wuhan.
1月23日，他记得清楚，傍晚雨下得很大，他收到通知去武昌火车站接人。
On January 23, he remembered clearly that it was raining heavily in the evening and he was told to pick up people at Wuchang railway station.
乘客是一家三口，想趁着春节到云南度假，刚去三天，因为身份证上写的武汉，被当地的酒店和派出所轰了回来。
The passenger is a family of three, would like to take advantage of the Spring Festival to Yunnan vacation, just three days, because the ID card said Wuhan, was local hotel and police station back.
在火车站待了四个小时，一辆车都没有叫到，最后是成冬把他们送回了家。
After four hours at the train station, no car was called, and finally they were sent home in the winter.
他回忆，那一天还接了很多「这样的可怜人」，从武昌火车站出发，车子在武汉城里来回跑了十八趟。
He recalled that he had met many "such poor people" that day, and had made eighteen trips to and fro from Wuchang Railway Station.
封城前一天，成冬在车友群里报名参加武汉志愿者车队，这是一支为当地社区运送物资，帮忙接送居民、医护人员的车队，司机是由普通的市民组成。
The day before the closure of the city, winter signed up to join Wuhan Volunteer Corps, a convoy carrying supplies to and from the local community, driven by ordinary citizens.
最初，除了帮助社区运送物资，主要工作是帮助一些普通人。
Initially, in addition to helping communities deliver goods, the main task was to help some ordinary people.
有天，一个60多岁的婆婆告诉他，老父亲90多岁，3天了电话都没打通实在放心不下。
One day, a mother-in-law in his sixties told him that his father was in his 90s and had not been able to get through for three days.
虽然绕了很远的路，成冬还是把她送过了江。
Though she had traveled a long way, she was sent across the river all winter long.
送人回来的时候，给社区老人们买些肉，想办法给小区里哺乳期的妈妈们搞些骨头回来炖汤。
When you bring someone back, buy some meat for the community elders and try to get some bone for the lactating mothers in the neighborhood.
他还是武汉理工大学的400多个留学生最熟悉的朋友，封城后很多国家开始撤侨，他送留学生拿签证，送留学生取护照，最后送他们到机场。
He was also the most familiar friend of more than 400 students at Wuhan Polytechnic University. After the closure of the city, many countries began to evacuate overseas Chinese.
他的车上，经常遇到不同国家的留学生，泰国、俄罗斯、哈萨克斯坦、约旦……他们都因为这场疫情不得不离开这里。
In his car, he often met foreign students from different countries, Thailand, Russia, Kazakhstan, Jordan... they all had to leave because of the outbreak.
他的车辆通行证上，留下来自不同国家留学生的签名，那是最好的告别。
His vehicle pass, leaving the signatures of foreign students from different countries, was the best bid farewell.
有天他又送走了一个泰国学生，都戴口罩，不能握手也不能拥抱，他只是对成冬说，「2020，武汉的冬天，我一定会回来陪你过。
One day he sent off a Thai student, wearing a mask, unable to shake hands or hug him. He just said to Cheng Dong, "2020, Wuhan winter, I will definitely come back to stay with you.
」不记得从什么时候开始，成冬车上的医护人员渐渐多了起来。
"I don't remember when more and more paramedics began to arrive on the bus throughout the winter.
有时候乘客分别来自青山、汉口、武昌，不同辖区的医生护士挤挤地坐了一车。
Sometimes passengers came from Castle Peak, Hankou and Wuchang, and doctors and nurses from different jurisdictions crowded into a cart.
医护间口口相传，都觉得成冬不错，单独联系希望他帮忙接送的人也越来越多。
Word of mouth between the health care, all feel good winter, contact him alone hope that he will help more and more people.
最后，成冬的车变成了车队里，仅有的几辆医护人员接送专车。
Eventually, the winterized car became a convoy with only a few paramedics to pick it up.
医护人员最敏感，一般的车他们不会轻易上的。
Paramedics are the most sensitive, ordinary cars they don't use easily.
上了车，要把自己裹得严严实实，戴个手套拿着纸巾在车里到处擦。
Get in the car, to wrap themselves up, wearing gloves and carrying paper towels around the car.
经常有医生，拿着空调消毒剂在成冬的车里到处喷，十几天来，成冬车座上的皮已经被消毒到开裂。
Doctors, often armed with air-conditioning disinfectants, sprayed all over the winter cars, and for days the skin on the winter seats had been disinfected to the point of cracking.
他很理解医护人员的担忧，最初斗志昂扬，随着医院床位的爆满，病人住不进去，身边同事也开始被感染，紧张、焦虑、恐慌蔓延在他们身上。
He understood the concerns of the medical staff and started with a great deal of enthusiasm. As the hospital bed was full, the patients could not get in, and his colleagues began to get infected.
一个50多岁的护士，常坐成冬的车，她经历过非典，起初心态还很淡定。
A nurse in her fifties, often in a winter car, she has experienced SARS, at the beginning of the mentality is still very quiet.
没过几天，成冬发现只要不是他去接，这个阿姨坚决不出医院，任何人来都不走，「她觉得害怕。
A few days later, winter found that as long as he did not go to pick up, this aunt determined not to go out of the hospital, no one came, "she felt afraid.
谁派车来都觉得不安全。
Anyone sending a car feels unsafe.
」为了让医护人员安心，成冬的防护工作比谁都要好。
"To reassure the medical staff, the winter protection is better than anyone else's.
口罩、护目镜是必备的，再套上面罩纱巾，护住脖子和面部，穿上防水的冲锋衣裤，防护服和鞋套。
Masks, goggles are a must. Put a veil over your neck and face. Wear water-proof front wear, protective clothing and shoe covers.
车内用稀释酒精，车外用稀释的84消毒水，两个小时消毒一次。
In the car with diluted alcohol, the car with diluted 84 disinfectant water, disinfect for two hours.
所有上车的乘客，第一时间可以拿到成冬准备好的酒精消毒片擦手机。
All the passengers on the bus, the first time to get ready for the winter alcohol disinfection tablets to wipe the phone.
他说，尽一切可能把自己武装到了牙齿。
He said he armed himself to the teeth in every way he could.
社区的人说他是武汉「毒王」，每天在「跑毒」，载着武汉最接近病毒的一线工作者，满城地跑。
The community said he was Wuhan "poison king," running poison every day, carrying Wuhan closest to the front-line workers, running around the city.
他自己倒不担忧，唯一害怕的只是送人时间不够。
He didn't worry about it himself. The only thing he was afraid of was not giving enough time.
从清晨5点开始，直到深夜11点结束，每天工作的时间都在18个小时左右。
The work day starts at 5 a.m. and ends at 11 p.m. and lasts about 18 hours a day.
一天至少能跑出500多块钱的油，相当于从武汉直奔了一趟上海浦东国际机场。
At least 500 yuan a day can run out of oil, equivalent to a straight trip from Wuhan to Shanghai Pudong International Airport.
休息几乎是没有的，早饭没时间吃，中饭用饼干顶一阵子，晚饭能回家吃口妻子留好的饭菜。
Rest is almost non-existent, there is no time for breakfast, lunch is served with biscuits for a while, and dinner is served at home to eat the meals left by his wife.
车上放着温度计，这是他为了刚出生的孩子准备的，现在他用来时时刻刻监测自己的体温。
On the train was a thermometer, which he had prepared for his newborn child and which he now used to monitor his temperature at all times.
他很害怕车里太热，体温超过37.2℃，会被拦下来，凉快一会儿就要耽误半个小时。
He was afraid of the heat in the car, which exceeded 37.2 degrees Celsius, would be stopped and would be delayed for half an hour.
他想的只是，怎么在这十几个小时里，运送最多的医护人员。
All he's thinking is, how to get the most paramedics in a dozen hours.
2月7日，成冬和他接送医护人员的一日生活，被淘宝直播的隐藏直播间记录了下来。
February 7, winter and his day of transport of medical personnel, was Taobao live broadcast of the hidden studio down.
这是淘宝直播里一个隐秘的空间，打开方式特殊，内容与常见的购物直播不同，主题无关消费，而是为了展现一个真实的世界。
This is a hidden space in Taobao Live, opened in a special way, different from the usual live shopping, the theme is not consumption, but to show a real world.
那天，有4万人在线观看了这场护送抗疫一线的直播，通过镜头看到了一线的医护工作者，看到了武汉的清晨和黑夜，看到了武汉现在每一条街道的样子。
That day, 40,000 people watched the live broadcast of the first-line epidemic escort, through the lens of the front-line health care workers, see Wuhan in the morning and night, see Wuhan now every street look.
医护人员感激成冬，想尽各种方法来回馈他。
The paramedics thanked him for the winter and tried every means to give him back.
通过直播可以看到，他的副驾驶上时常堆满了各种各样奇怪的东西。
As can be seen live, his co-pilot is often full of strange things.
有医院的手术服，口罩，巧克力、饼干、面包、各种牌子的防护工具……有护士送来热干面和白煮蛋，非要看着成冬一口一口吃完才肯下车。
There are hospital surgical masks, masks, chocolate, biscuits, bread, all kinds of brands of protective gear... Some nurses bring hot-and-dry noodles and boiled eggs.
元宵节那天，成冬收工的时候，发现后座扶手的凹槽下面有几千块钱，每张都不一样，很明显是不同的乘客偷偷放进去的。
At the end of the winter on Lantern Festival, there were thousands of dollars under the recess of the handrail on the back seat, each of which was different.
最后，他把这些钱都捐了出去。
In the end, he donated all the money.
医护人员里，成冬接到的大多都是护士。
Nurses are the majority of health care workers who receive it during the winter.
一些医生有自己的私家车，报备之后能开车上下班。
Some doctors have their own private cars, which they can drive to and from work after registration.
护士群体大多没有自己车，外地人也非常多。
Most nurses have no cars of their own, and there are many outsiders.
他常遇到刚从卫校毕业参加工作的小姑娘，面对这样大的打击和高强度工作，经常在车里情绪失控。
He often met young girls who had just graduated from health school to work, and often got out of control in the car in the face of such blows and intense work.
在武汉打车实在太难了，很多医护人员叫不到车就决定走到医院，武汉冬天潮潮冷冷的，十几公里的路，走到一半就崩溃了。
Wuhan is really too difficult to take a taxi, many medical staff decided to go to the hospital, Wuhan cold winter tide, a dozen kilometers of road, halfway on the collapse.
有的人刚接通成冬的电话，哇一声哭了出来，搭上一辆车真的太不容易了。
Some people just put through the winter telephone, wow cry out, it is really not easy to get on a car.
成冬送过一个怀孕7个月的医生，家住在高速口附近，要赶到18公里外的医院去上班。
Cheng sent a doctor who was seven months pregnant and lived near a high-speed entrance to a hospital 18 kilometers away.
起初，社区有车来接送她上下班，知道她是医生后，都不敢送了，总是推托。
At first, the community had a car to take her to and from work. Knowing that she was a doctor, she was afraid to give up.
每天为了去医院，她到处求人，带她去一趟。
Every day, to go to the hospital, she asked people everywhere, take her to a trip.
成冬告诉她只要有需要，不管多远他都会来。
The whole winter told her that he would come, no matter how far she needed it.
这是成冬十几年来难得的崩溃时刻，送完医生，他立刻把车停在路边，眼泪莫名地就往下掉，他甚至忘记自己哭了多久。
It was a rare moment of collapse in more than a decade. When the doctor finished, he stopped the car by the side of the road and cried.
前几天晚上，成冬接到一个搭过车乘客的电话。
The other night, I got a phone call from a passenger who had picked me up.
她妈妈感染了，在武汉人民医院抢救，已经快不行了。
Her mother infected, in Wuhan People's Hospital rescue, has nearly exhausted.
她是支援雷神山的护士，没办法赶回来，她央求成冬接上她爸爸，去看妈妈最后一眼。
She was a nurse in support of Raytheon Mountain. She couldn't come back. She begged to be picked up by her father this winter to take one last look at her mother.
成冬一路超速闯红灯，刚刚接上护士的爸爸，就接到电话：没有必要了，妈妈已经走了，让我爸回去吧。
All winter long speeding through the red light, just picked up the father of the nurse, received a telephone: no need, mother has left, let my father go back.
自从当上志愿者，成冬觉得自己的心每天都像是在洗衣机里搅过，那些接近真实生死的东西，翻来覆去地折磨着他。
Ever since he became a volunteer, Winter has felt as if his heart had stirred in the washing machine every day. Something close to life and death tormented him over and over.
但，每次看到这些医护人员不顾一切的样子，他还愿意坚持这样跑下去，「这个城市生病了，我也想尽力帮帮它。
But every time he saw how desperate the paramedics were, he would go on like this, "This city is sick, and I want to help it as much as I can.
」这些人和故事就这样赤裸裸地展现在互联网上。
"These people and stories are so starkly displayed on the Internet.
有很现实、很残酷的，也有很温暖，很治愈的时刻。
There are very real, very cruel, but also very warm, very healing moments.
成冬觉得这样也挺好，「没有比这些影像更珍贵的了。
It was good for the winter. "There's nothing more precious than these images.
」他想，至少通过互联网，让武汉之外的人看看，这个城市和它的人民正在经历什么。
"He thought, at least through the Internet, let people outside Wuhan see what the city and its people are going through.
武汉司机的一天2这次疫情爆发之前，李献云已经很久没有接过心理热线电话了。
Wuhan driver's day 2 Before the outbreak of this outbreak, Li Xianyun has not been a psychological hotline for a long time.
她是北京回龙观医院精神科临床三科的主任,从心理危机研究与干预中心离开后，大部分时间服务的都是她病房里的患者和门诊的病人。
She is director of the Psychiatric Department of the Huilongguan Hospital in Beijing. Since her departure from the Center for Psychological Crisis Research and Intervention, she has spent most of her time serving patients in her ward and outpatient clinics.
2月8日，她为北京市民热线12345接听了一天的疫情心理问题咨询电话，她发现相比本身就患有精神心理疾病的患者，普通市民对疫情有着更深的恐惧和担忧，大多数的求助都是因为疫情造成的恐慌心理。
On Feb. 8, she answered a one-day call to the Beijing Citizen's Hotline 12345 for a day of counseling about the epidemic. She found that the general public had more fear and worry about the outbreak than those who were suffering from it themselves. Most of the calls were due to panic attacks.
印象最深的求助电话，是一个儿子打来的。
The most impressive call for help came from a son.
他家老爷子，80多岁，疫情之前每天都能在家楼下走上6、7公里路，身体好到不行。
His grandfather, in his 80s, was able to walk six or seven kilometers from home and downstairs every day before the outbreak.
疫情发生后，每天都圈在屋里，不下楼，也不出门，甚至连床也不下。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, every day in the house, do not go downstairs, do not go out, not even bed.
一圈，就是半个多月，有天早上起床上厕所后，就开始心慌头晕恶心，担心自己感染上肺炎了。
A circle, is more than half a month, one morning after getting up to go to the toilet, began to feel dizzy nausea, worried that he was infected with pneumonia.
反复质问儿子，到底和谁接触？去了哪里？有没有戴口罩？有没有洗手？最后实在受不了，每天半夜12点，让儿子带着他下楼散步。
Repeatedly asked the son, after all, who contact? Where? Had a mask? Wash your hands? Finally, I can't stand it, let my son take him downstairs for a walk at 12: 00 every morning.
给儿子也造成了极大的心理负担，只能打热线进来求助。
The son also caused a great psychological burden, can only call the hotline to come in for help.
李献云觉得，目前大部分人对疫情的心理恐慌，就像大爷一样，是对自身的过度保护。
Li thinks, at present most people to the epidemic psychology panic, is like the grandpa, is over-protects oneself.
在非疫区的城市，她建议只要戴好口罩，出门活动筋骨，下楼买菜这些正常生活需求是可以继续的。
In cities in non-affected areas, she suggests that the normal needs of life, such as wearing a mask, walking outside and buying food downstairs, can continue.
她说，地铁一张长椅绝不能再坐第二个人，穿着雨衣和护目镜回家洗完手之后恨不得再用消毒液反复泡洗、一天要测十几次体温的行为，都是超出正常范围的防御。
The act of repeatedly soaking in disinfectant and taking a dozen temperature tests a day after returning home in a raincoat and goggles is beyond the normal range of defense, she said.
作为精神科医生，她认为在任何重大公共事件发生的时候，人们的心理状态是不容忽视的事情。
As a psychiatrist, she believes that people's mental state cannot be ignored in any major public event.
李献云为了能够帮助大家缓解这种心理压力，决定以公益直播的方式，在淘宝直播隐藏直播间和近17万人分享了疫情时期如何进行心理调节的方法。
In order to help ease the psychological pressure, Li decided to broadcast it live on public welfare and share with nearly 170,000 people the methods of psychological regulation during the epidemic.
直播那天里，最多的网友提问却是关于口罩。
On the day of the live broadcast, the most frequently asked questions were about masks.
医生，有口罩卖吗？医生，哪里有N95的口罩？这恰恰证实了李献云的某些忧虑，很多人已经开始跟着恐慌走了，而不是理性与科学。
Doctor, is there a mask for sale? Doctor, where is N95 mask? This confirms some of Li Xianyun's concerns. Many people have started to follow the scare, rather than reason and science.
在他们看来，只有口罩和消毒液才能把自己保护地更好。
In their view, only masks and disinfectants can protect themselves better.
同样的情况，也发生在另一个医生的直播间里。
The same thing happened in another doctor's studio.
南方医科大学第三附属医院感染管理科主任杨创国，也参与了淘宝隐藏直播间的「防疫小课堂」公益活动，他在介绍新型肺炎传播渠道的过程中，屏幕上铺满了「口罩哪里买，消毒液哪里买」的评论。
The Director of Infection Management Section of the Third Affiliated Hospital of the Southern Medical University, Yang Chuangguo, also participated in the "Preventive Classroom" public welfare activities in the Taobao Hidden Broadcast Room. In his introduction of the new transmission channels of pneumonia, the screen was covered with comments on "Where to buy masks and where to buy disinfectant."
他和李献云的观点相近，疫情期间，就算没有口罩和消毒液也不需要过于惊慌，勤洗手是最最重要的环节。
He and Li Xianyun similar views, during the outbreak, even without masks and disinfectant do not need to panic, frequent hand-washing is the most important link.
尽管杨创国所处的医院不是新型肺炎定点医院，但作为广州市的三甲医院，每天接诊的患者和医院就诊人数远超疫情之前。
Although Yang's hospital is not a new type of pneumonia-designated hospital, as Guangzhou's triple-A hospital, the number of patients and hospital visits per day far exceeded the epidemic.
当核酸检测呈阴性已经不再是唯一的判定标准，杨创国所带领的感染科室的工作变得更加复杂。
When negative nucleic acid testing is no longer the only criterion, the work of the infection unit led by Yang Jianguo has become more complicated.
作为医生，他担忧的是病人之间的交叉传染，疑似患者的排查，但在直播间，他发现大多数网友对于疫情的担忧，还只是停留在口罩数量以及个人防护的惊慌中。
As a doctor, he was worried about cross-infection and suspected patient screening, but in the studio he found that most netizens were worried about the outbreak, still in panic about the number of masks and personal protection.
那两天，病毒可以通过气溶胶传播的消息正沸沸扬扬。
The news that the virus could be transmitted via aerosols was rife in those two days.
杨创国告诉网友，普通人碰到气溶胶传播的概率极低，这种传播渠道大多发生在医护人员身上。
Yang told netizens that ordinary people encounter the probability of aerosol transmission is extremely low, this kind of transmission channel mostly occurs in medical personnel.
「比起考虑怎样才能把自己包严实，不如老老实实在家待着，注意个人卫生，不添乱比啥都重要。
"It's better to be at home honestly than to think about how you can pack yourself up. Personal hygiene is more important than nothing.
」除了过度保护，李献云还很关注那些因为疫情产生心理负担，情绪失控的人。
"In addition to overprotective measures, Li is concerned about people who have lost control of their emotions because of the epidemic's psychological burden.
看疫情报道就无法停止自己流泪，每天都沉浸在各种各样的新闻中，一刻也不能离开网络关注疫情进展的人，可能需要开始关注自己的心理状态。
People who can't leave the internet to follow the progress of the epidemic may need to start focusing on their state of mind.
李献云提起了前段时间，湖北省作协主席李修文的口述文章。
Li Xianyun mentioned the oral article of Li Xiwen, chairman of Hubei Provincial Association.
李修文在文章中提及，隔离期间什么也做不了，也无法写作。
Li Xiuwen mentioned in his article that nothing can be done or written during isolation.
李献云说，现在大部分民众的心理状态和李修文是相通的，恐慌和焦虑是人类的生物本能，但可以试着让自己从这样的情绪里跳脱出来，就五分钟，问问自己几个问题，非疫区的新冠病毒真的到处都是吗？自己目前的心情，是不是影响了正常的生活呢？现在的防疫措施，是不是对自己的过度保护？李献云的家里因为防疫心理，发生了小小的代际分歧。
'Most people now have the same psychological state as Li Xiuwen. Panic and anxiety is a biological instinct, but you can try to jump out of that emotion and ask yourself a few questions for five minutes.
孩子觉得应该随时都要戴好口罩，一刻也不能耽误，时常批评妈妈和姥姥。
The child thinks should wear mask at all times, cannot delay for a moment, often criticizes mother and grandma.
李献云觉得这是孩子对疫情过度的担心，尤其在非疫区城市的空旷处，戴不戴口罩并不是一个绝对答案。
Li thinks this is a child's concern about the epidemic, especially in the open spaces of non-affected cities. Wearing a mask is not an absolute answer.
当然，她也感到欣慰，比起非典时期，人们对防疫和冠状病毒的理解已经深入很多。
She was pleased, of course, that the understanding of the disease and coronavirus was much deeper than it had been in SARS.
她回忆，2003年的SARS期间人们的惶恐远远超过现在，公交车上有人咳嗽一声，所有人都会唰一下躲开。
She recalls that during the SARS epidemic in 2003, people were more frightened than they are now, and when someone coughed on the bus, everyone would shun it.
现在大部分已经可以合理地抵抗病毒，保护自己。
Most are now reasonably able to resist the virus and protect themselves.
李献云还提出疫情之后的心理重建问题。
Li also raised the issue of psychological reconstruction after the outbreak.
疫情之后，并不排除一些亲历者会出现自杀、自伤，甚至攻击性的行为。
After the outbreak, it is not ruled out that some first-hand experience of suicide, self-injury, and even offensive behavior.
在这样的时期里，心理的战役和防控的战役一样重要。
In such times, psychological campaigns are as important as control campaigns.
李献云和杨创国，都是经历过2003年非典，从那场战役里走过来的人。
Li Xianyun and Yang Jianguo, both experienced SARS in 2003, came from the battle.
他们希望把更多专业知识传递到了普通人面前，不要再重蹈曾经对信息匮乏，引发不必要恐惧，错误生活防控的老路。
They want to pass on more expertise to ordinary people, not to repeat the same path that once led to a lack of information, unnecessary fear, and wrong living.
他们都觉得在这场战疫里，非一线的医生能做到其实有限，「如果可以通过直播间的方式，让疾病的真相和知识触及一部分人，就很满足了。
They all felt that non-frontline doctors had limited access to the epidemic and that "it would be satisfying if the truth and knowledge about the disease could reach some people through a direct broadcast studio."
」疫情直播课3郑晓倩和王宏俊从来没想过，他们会办一场没有宾客的婚礼。
"Zheng Xiaoqian and Wang Hongjun never thought they would have a wedding without guests.
他们是幼儿园一起长大的青梅竹马，相恋多年。
They were brought up together in kindergarten, love each other for many years.
决定趁过年，在老家江西上饶玉山县的一个小镇上筹办婚礼，时间定在正月初六。
It was decided to take advantage of the New Year to prepare for the wedding in a small town in Shangyao Yushan County, Jiangxi Province.
过年办婚礼排场最大。
Wedding is the most extravagant this year.
全镇的老老小小都会挤在屋前看喜事。
The whole town, old and young, would huddle in front of the house and watch the festivities.
镇子就那么大，有亲戚关系的，没亲戚关系的，都会赶来。
The town is so big, relatives, not relatives, will come.
提前一个月买好食材，跟大厨定下酒单，在院子里摆上20多桌，吹吹打打从早到晚，要多热闹有多热闹。
Buy ingredients a month in advance, make a wine list with the chef, set up more than 20 tables in the yard, and blow from morning till night as much as possible.
意外发生在大年初三，村干部来家里通知，疫情来了，不能聚众宴请。
Accidents occurred on the third day of the New Year, village officials came home to inform that the epidemic situation came, can not gather mass banquet.
婚礼取消，两家一商量，推到2月14日情人节，也算个不错的日子。
The wedding was cancelled and the two families agreed to postpone Valentine's Day to February 14, a good day.
大家想，那时候情况就会变好了吧。
People think things will get better then.
没有如愿，2月初封禁的规定还没解除，两个新人也要离开镇子，回城里上班，眼看婚礼就要办不成了。
The ban was not lifted in early February, and the couple are leaving town to go back to work, seeing the wedding over.
郑晓倩的妹妹出了一个主意，不如把婚礼搬到网上去，亲朋好友也不用招呼，在直播间参加婚宴就好了。
Zheng Xiaoqian's younger sister has come up with an idea, how about moving the wedding to the Internet, and not having to say hello to relatives and friends.
郑晓倩的妹妹是淘宝主播，和丈夫共同拥有一个叫「华医生」的账号。
Zheng Xiaoqian's sister is Taobao anchorman, and her husband jointly own a "Doctor Hua" account.
从前做过医疗行业就取名「华医生」，实际是一对卖农产品和土特产的夫妻主播。
Once a medical profession named "Doctor China", is actually a pair of sales of agricultural products and local products husband and wife anchor.
当他们提出这个想法，两个新人倒是很快就接受了，说服老人还是花了一些时间的。
When they came up with the idea, the two newcomers quickly accepted it and convinced the old man it took some time.
没有宾客，没有酒席，没有唢呐和鞭炮，对一场农村婚礼来说，太过冷清。
No guests, no banquet, no suona and firecrackers, for a rural wedding, too cold and cheerless.
防控疫情要做的，婚礼也是要办的，最终双方家长同意了直播婚礼的方式。
Prevention and control of the epidemic to do, the wedding is also to do, and eventually the parents agreed to broadcast the way the wedding.
请柬也不用发了，通知亲朋好友用的都是淘宝直播的链接。
Invitation also does not need to send, notify relatives and friends are using Taobao live link.
饭菜也不用准备了，自己买点零食就可以在手机前看婚礼。
Food also need not be prepared, buy some snacks themselves can be in front of the mobile phone to watch the wedding.
唯一苦恼的，就是这份子钱是收不回来了。
The only vexation is that the money won't come back.
请柬防控时期的婚礼，还有很多细节不容忽视。
There are many details of the wedding in the period of invitation to Cambodia.
「华医生」说，他们所在的镇子和大多数农村一样，防卫只针对外人，不针对自己人。
Dr. Hua says his town, like most rural areas, is defending itself against outsiders and not against its own people.
严防死守不让外村人进来，生怕有什么病毒传进来，但在村里人却不怎么戴口罩。
Be careful not to let outsiders in for fear of a virus, but don't wear masks in the village.
家家户户的门也都敞开着，只是不大串门，该看的热闹，一个也不会落下。
The door of every house is also open, but not very door, should see lively, one will not fall.
出于这样的担心，不到一公里的接亲路，决定还是新郎戴着口罩，开车去。
Fears of this, less than a kilometer to meet the road, decided to groom wearing a mask, driving.
在当地，婚礼相当于一场「热搜」，如果这一路像从前那样，穿着婚纱走过去的，不管防疫工作怎么样，村民们还是会一窝蜂地围上来。
In the area, the wedding amounted to a "hot search," and if the whole way through, as in the past, in wedding dresses, the villagers would huddle in, whatever the vaccination.
为了减少所有的风险，鞭炮也不放了，从网上找一段电子鞭炮的音效，环保又低调。
In order to reduce all the risks, firecrackers from the Internet to find a piece of sound effects, environmental protection and low-key.
花童也不找别人，「华医生」自己的孩子直接上，撒花糖，滚新床，都由他来完成。
Flower boy also do not look for others, "Dr. China" his own children directly, sprinkle sugar, roll the bed, all done by him.
一场没有宾客的婚礼，见证者只有双方的父母，哥哥和妹妹。
A wedding without guests, witness only the parents of both sides, brothers and sisters.
婚礼前夜，「华医生」最担忧这场婚礼太冷清，所有环节撑不完一场4个小时的直播，最后一家人可能要在全国网友的见证下，互相敬酒，尴尬收场。
On the eve of the wedding, Dr. Hua was worried that the wedding would be so cold that it would take four hours to complete a live broadcast. Finally, the family might have to toast to each other in front of the nation's netizens.
事实上，「华医生」的担心完全没有必要，2月14日，这场隐藏直播间里的婚礼，7万人的虚拟宴席坐得满满当当，评论和祝福超过了十几万。
In fact, Dr. Hua's concerns were completely unfounded. On February 14, 2007, the wedding in the hidden studio was full of 70, 000 virtual banquets and more than a hundred thousand comments and blessings.
所有人，跨过了网络，站在了这对新人的面前。
Everyone, across the internet, stood in front of the couple.
有网友看完这场疫情下的农村婚礼，深深感叹这是他梦想中的婚礼，不用出门不用社交还不用给份子钱，祝福和喜悦也都有了。
Some netizens saw this epidemic situation under the countryside wedding, deeply lamented that this is his dream wedding, do not have to go out to socialize and do not have to give the money, blessing and joy also have.
特殊时期，拥有同样困扰的新人不止郑晓倩和王宏俊。
Special period, have the same obsession new person not only Zheng Xiaoqian and Wang Hongjun.
「华医生」认为疫情之下，取消婚礼也许不是唯一的办法，直播婚礼会从这场婚礼开始，成为新的风潮。
Dr Wah said cancelling the wedding may not be the only way to deal with the outbreak. The live wedding will start with the wedding and become a new fad.
新的风潮也在席卷着直播间，「华医生」发现这段日子直播间变成了一个家。
New trends are sweeping the studio, and Dr Hua finds that the studio has become a home on this day.
所有人都出不了门，就在这个小小的直播间里分享着自己的疫情生活。
No one can get out of the house, just in this small studio to share their epidemic of life.
今天在家做了什么饭，玩了什么游戏，看了什么书，都是些生活的琐事。
What meals are cooked, what games are played, and what books are read at home today are all trifles of life.
一个叫生生不息的网友，每天来直播间打卡，报告自己今天从厨房到卫生间到卧室来回走，每天都能走2万步。
A netizen named Everlasting visits the studio every day to punch a card and report that he can walk from the kitchen to the bathroom to the bedroom today and walk up and down 20,000 steps a day.
大家也不谈论其他商品的，所有的购物需求都变成了口罩和消毒液。
People don't talk about other products, and all the shopping needs turn into masks and disinfectants.
最开始他也尝试帮粉丝筹集了一些，后来实在力不从心，就在直播间教大家洗手。
At first he tried to raise some money for his fans, but later he was too weak to teach them to wash their hands in the studio.
经历了这场婚礼直播，他意识到，艰难的时刻让这些跨越网络的陌生陪伴会变得更加直接，更加长久。
After the live broadcast of the wedding, he realized that the tough times would make the strange companionship more direct and long-lasting.
郑晓倩和王宏俊隐藏直播间隐藏在人们熟知的直播模式背后，不为带货，只为分享各种值得分享的生活。
Zheng Xiaoqian and Wang Hongjun hide behind the well-known mode of broadcasting, not to bring goods, but to share all kinds of life worth sharing.
在淘宝上，有一万个这样的隐藏直播间，每天都在发生着一些真实的人间故事。
On Taobao, there are 10,000 such hidden studio, every day a number of real world stories.
有人在直播间帮忙云养鸡，只要花一百块钱就可以拥有自己的鸡，买家可以在直播间里跟自己的鸡互动，陪它长大。
Someone in the studio to help cloud chicken, as long as a hundred dollars to own their own chicken, buyers can interact with their chickens in the studio, grow up with it.
有人在直播间里代喝奶茶，一天喝十几杯。
Some people drink milk tea in the studio, a dozen cups a day.
在青海直播放牧，在福建的海岸线上打渔，在横店跑龙套。
Live grazing in Qinghai, fishing on the coast of Fujian, running dragons in the Hengdian.
这一次，疫情来袭，这些直播间接过了另一个使命，让全国网友在这里观看到最真实，最有用的抗疫生活。
This time, the outbreak hit, these stations took over another mission, so that the nation's netizens here to see the most real, the most useful anti-epidemic life.
有成冬每日奔波在武汉疫区的故事，有李献云和杨创国这样的医生分享专业的防控科普，有郑晓倩和王宏俊对婚礼方式颠覆呈现。
There is a daily winter in Wuhan epidemic area, there are doctors such as Li Xianyun and Yang Jianguo share professional control of the popular science, there are Zheng Xiaoqian and Wang Hongjun on the way the wedding subversive presented.
还有另一些人也在努力，宠物医生教养宠家庭如何抗疫，健身教练和营养学专家让宅在家里的人们健康生活，甚至有主播在成都家乐福门口给路人派发了1000个N95口罩。
Still others are struggling, as pet doctors nurture and pamper families on how to fight the disease, fitness coaches and dieticians let homebound people live healthy lives, and even hosts handed out 1,000 N95 masks to passers-by at the gate of Chengdu's Carrefour.
艰难的日子里，他们都在想尽办法地战斗着，与病毒战斗，与生活战斗。
In hard times, they are fighting as hard as they can, fighting the virus, fighting life.
隐藏直播间没有隐藏住那些来自生活的光，而是用镜头记录下，疫情背后还有这些普通人在用力地，真切地活着。
Hidden direct broadcast rooms do not hide the light from life, but use the lens to record the epidemic behind these ordinary people are working hard, live.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些「隐秘而伟大」的抗疫生活。
Those "secret and great" lives against the plague.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那些「隐秘而伟大」的抗疫生活";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "有很现实、很残酷的，也有很温暖，很治愈的时刻。
var msg _ desc = & quot; has been a very real, brutal, and warm, healing moment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
