镜头下的武汉社区医院：临危受命的疫情最前线。
Wuhan Community Hospital: The Front Line of the Crisis-Directed Epidemic Disease.
欧阳诗蕾。
Ouyang poetry bud.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
疫情当下，武汉实行分类和分级诊疗体系，两百余家社区卫生服务中心进行患者初筛初诊。
At present, Wuhan implements classification and grading system of diagnosis and treatment, more than 200 community health services center for the initial screening of patients.
新闻摄影记者胡冬冬记录下社区医院的日常，这里是疫情防控的前沿阵地。
News photographer Hu Dongdong records the daily life of the community hospital, here is the front line of disease prevention and control.
···············连着几天，30岁的胡冬冬拍摄下一家社区医院的生活。
In the course of a few days, Hu Dongdong, 30, filmed the life of a community hospital.
他是武汉一家新闻媒体的摄影记者。
He is a photographer for a news media in Wuhan.
1月27日，他因工作从湖北襄阳老家回到武汉，拍摄疫情中的人们与城市。
On January 27, he returned to Wuhan from his hometown of Xiangyang, Hubei Province, to film people and cities affected by the epidemic.
这座他求学生活十余年的城市正处于疫情艰难时，而那些他平日就诊的社区医院，现已成为治“疫”第一线。
The city where he studied for more than a decade is in the throes of an epidemic, and the community hospitals he attends on a daily basis are now the front lines of the epidemic.
武汉封城次日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第7号通告明确：为解决发热门诊等候时间长、床位安排不及时等问题，对全市发热市民进行分级分类诊疗筛查，由社区进行初筛诊断。
Wuhan city the next day, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a clear notice No. 7: To solve the fever clinic waiting time, bedspace arrangements are not timely, the city conducted a classification of fever citizens screening, the community for the first screening diagnosis.
自此，武汉市两百余家社区卫生服务中心成为疫情防控链条上的重要环节。
Since then, Wuhan more than 200 community health service centers have become an important link in the chain of epidemic prevention and control.
自2月1日以来，青山区红钢城社区卫生服务中心清空三楼，紧急开办成疑似新冠肺炎和确诊轻中症患者的隔离病区。
Since February 1, Qingshan District Red Steel City Community Health Service Center emptying the third floor, emergency opening into suspected new crown pneumonia and confirmed patients with mild to moderate disease quarantine areas.
“严格意义上来讲，社区卫生服务中心的空间达不到开设隔离病房的条件，因为隔离病房的构造很特殊，既需要通风，又需要跟其他外界有一个相对的封闭隔离。
"Strictly speaking, the CHCs do not have the space to open isolation wards, which are very special and require both ventilation and a relative isolation from the outside world.
但现在情况特殊，疑似病例太多太多了，它要分担一部分压力。
But now the situation is special, there are too many suspected cases, it has to share part of the pressure.
”胡冬冬说，在他去过的多家社区医院中，有三层楼的红钢城社区卫生服务中心已经属于空间条件比较好的社区医院。
"Among the many community hospitals he visited, the Red Steel City Community Health Service, a three-storey facility, is already part of a community hospital with better space conditions, Hu said.
截至2月10日，红钢城社区卫生服务中心仅有的30个床位已全部收满。
As at 10 February, the Red Steel City Community Health Service Centre had a full capacity of only 30 beds.
“基层的社区卫生服务中心有中转站的作用，”胡冬冬说，“社区医院收治了一些轻症和中症的新冠病人，但是如果病人的病情加重，转成重症和危重后，就需要隔离病人送到定点医院去。
"Community health service centers at the grass-roots level act as transit points," Hu said. "Community hospitals have treated some patients with mild and moderate crowns, but if the patients get worse and become seriously ill and critical, they need to be quarantined to designated hospitals.
”   。
"
2月6日，青山区红钢城社区卫生服务中心大门前，田文辉正在对医院一楼进行全面消毒杀菌。
February 6, Qingshan Honggang City Community Health Service Center in front of the door, Tian Wenhui is on the first floor of the hospital for general sterilization.
田文辉是医院的口腔科医生，由于人手紧缺，他肩负起抗疫期间的后勤保障和医院整体消毒杀菌工作。
Tian Wenhui is a stomatologist at the hospital. Due to the shortage of staff, he was responsible for the logistical support during the fight against the disease and the overall disinfection and sterilization of the hospital.
在医院开设疑似新冠肺炎和确诊轻中症患者的隔离病区之后，医院所在的钢城四街已进行封闭加强管控。
Following the opening of an isolation ward in the hospital for suspected New Crown Pneumonia and confirmed light-weight cases, the hospital's fourth street in Gangcheng has been closed down for enhanced control.
。
.
2月8日早上，苏杰等三位医生在电脑前讨论病人的病历和治疗方案。
On the morning of February 8, three doctors, including Sujie, were discussing the patient's medical history and treatment plan in front of a computer.
隔离治疗区的护士站也配置两台电脑，主要进行患者登记，问询病史，记录病程和护理记录。
Nurse stations in isolated treatment areas are also equipped with two computers, which primarily register patients, enquire about medical history, and record course and care records.
。
.
2月8日早上查房时，医生们查看一位病人的病历和诊断书。
On the morning of February 8, the doctors examined a patient's medical history and a medical certificate.
。
.
查房时，病人刘婆婆看到来查房的医生时情绪激动。
During the house inspection, the patient, Mrs. Liu, was excited when she saw the doctor coming to check the room.
医生们立即安抚她平复，医生表示，平复情绪更助于康复。
Doctors immediately calmed her down, saying that calming helps her recover more.
在病人心中，一张医院床位的意义非凡。
In the heart of a patient, a hospital bed means so much.
刘婆婆说，经过这几天的照料和治疗，她感到身体有了改善，呼吸不喘了，食欲也好了很多。
After a few days of care and treatment, Mrs. Liu said, she felt better, breathless and her appetite much better.
。
.
一位护士正在更换病人的氧气罐，接气口处需要使劲用扳手才能拧紧。
A nurse is replacing the patient's oxygen tank, which requires a strong wrench at the intake to tighten.
。
.
护士长小心翼翼将空氧气罐搬至待更换的区域。
The head nurse carefully moved the empty oxygen tank to the area to be replaced.
护士们的个头普遍较小，平时挪动氧气罐时较为吃力，又需多加小心。
Nurses are generally smaller, usually when moving oxygen tank more difficult, but also need to be more careful.
2月7日，湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作例行新闻发布会透露，武汉医疗物资供需矛盾十分突出，防护服、口罩、护目镜、氧气供给均存缺口。
On February 7, a regular press conference was held in Hubei Province to discuss the prevention and control of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia.
武汉市肺科医院院长彭鹏在发布会上表示，目前除了人员、防护用品紧张以外，还有一个突出问题就是氧气供应。
Peng Peng, director of Wuhan Lung Hospital, said at the launch, in addition to the current shortage of personnel, protective equipment, there is also a prominent problem is oxygen supply.
“目前我们医院氧气用量已达到日常用量峰值的10倍以上，任何一家医院在进行设计的时候，都不可能按照现在这种极端情况来进行氧气设计，目前我们呼吸机需要氧气。
"At present our hospital oxygen use has reached more than 10 times the daily peak, any hospital when the design, it is impossible to design oxygen as the current extreme conditions, we need oxygen ventilator.
”彭鹏说。
"said Peng Peng.
。
.
病房里，护士王曾准备为病人打针。
In the ward, nurse Wang was ready to give the patient an injection.
这是一间被临时改造的病房，之前可容纳下六张床位，但现在出于安全考虑，只设了两个床位。
This is a temporary converted ward, which used to accommodate six beds, but now has only two beds for security reasons.
。
.
由于佩戴的护目镜内壁起雾有水汽，王曾在为病人打针时需要非常小心，她反复轻拍、擦拭病人的手背，以确认血管的位置。
As the inner walls of her goggles were foggy and Wang had to be very careful when administering injections to patients, she repeatedly patted and wiped the back of her hands to confirm the location of the vessels.
。
.
2月8日早上给病人做治疗前，两位护士再次核对给病人的用药。
Before treating the patient on the morning of Feb. 8, the nurses checked the patient's medication again.
。
.
做完所有的治疗后，两位护士在药物配备室等待接下来的指令。
After all the treatment, the nurses waited in the drug room for the next instructions.
。
.
2月8日，护士胡文会给下一位病人打的药做标记。
On Feb. 8, nurse Hu Wen marked the next patient's medication.
她的防护服上写的“会会”，是同事们叫她的小名。
Her protective clothing said "yes" and her co-workers called her by her nickname.
。
.
2月9日深夜，两位家属推着病人来到医院，当班的医生苏杰从三楼下来为他们开门。
Late in the evening of 9 February, two family members brought the patients to the hospital, and the doctor on duty, Sujie, came from the third floor to open the door for them.
上三楼的电梯门上贴着临时的避让通知：为避免交叉感染，请居民不要从此通道通行。
Temporary exclusion notices are posted on the elevator doors on the third floor: To avoid cross-infection, residents are advised not to use this access.
2月9日深夜，值夜班的护士程娅萍，需要查看每一位用氧的病人的氧气罐含量是否充足。
Late at night on February 9, night nurse Cheng Ping needed to see if there was enough oxygen in every oxygen tank in every oxygen-using patient.
。
.
程娅萍重新核对给病人配好的次日服用的药，以免出错。
Cheng Ping rechecked the medicine she had prepared for the next day to avoid making a mistake.
。
.
2月10日凌晨，做完所有计划工作后，值夜班的护士程娅萍挨个查看每个病房的病人是否睡去。
In the early morning of February 10th, after all the planned work had been done, Cheng Ping, a night nurse, looked to see if the patients in each ward were asleep.
。
.
2月10日凌晨，在这间被临时改造成药物配备室的病房里，程娅萍对全屋进行消毒，这也是值夜班的护士的工作之一。
In the early morning hours of February 10, Ms. Cheng disinfected the room in a ward that had been temporarily converted into a medicine room, part of the job of a night nurse.
。
.
2月10日凌晨，在做完所有计划工作后，程娅萍坐靠在墙边放松。
In the early morning of February 10, after all her planned work, Cheng Ping sat against the wall to relax.
如果左边的呼叫机响起，她便要立即去病房查看情况。
If the left-hand caller rings, she will immediately go to the ward to check the situation.
“大家都很忙很累，非常忙非常累，休息的时间也不多。
"Everyone is busy and tired, very busy and very tired, and has not much time for rest.
但现在就是疫情这么严重，人手这么缺，所以必须所有人都得咬牙坚持，是这样的。
But right now it's so serious and so short of staff that we all have to bite the bullet and stick to it, like this.
”拍下这一幕，胡冬冬心里也挺难过：“现在武汉市所有的医疗人员基本上都在前线咬牙坚持着，很多人睡很少。
"Taking this scene, Hu Dongdong also felt sad:" Now all the medical personnel in Wuhan are basically clenching their teeth on the front lines and many sleep very little.
”   。
"
2月10日，三楼部分病房被临时改造成休息室，谢恩梅护士长关上门准备进入隔离病房。
February 10, the third floor part of the ward was temporarily converted into a lounge, head nurse Shanmei closed the door ready to enter the isolation ward.
作为临危受命的病区护士长，她已经在隔离区守护了10天。
As the head nurse of the critically ill ward, she had been in the quarantine area for 10 days.
。
.
2月10日早晨，心电图科室的周文新医生和谢恩梅清理防护服穿戴间的医疗垃圾。
On the morning of February 10, Dr. Zhou Wenxin of the ECG department and Xie Enmei cleaned the medical rubbish in the protective clothing dressing room.
。
.
2月10日早晨，周文新正在护士休息室进行消杀。
On the morning of February 10, Zhou Wenxin was in the nurse's lounge for a sterilization.
因为人手紧缺，她负责每日的隔离病区的后勤保障，消杀，以及清理医疗垃圾。
Because of the shortage of staff, she is responsible for the daily isolation of the area logistics, sterilization, and cleaning up medical waste.
。
.
由于医疗物资紧缺，医护人员们的护目镜都需要反复使用。
Medical personnel's goggles need to be used repeatedly because of the shortage of medical supplies.
每次在隔离病区佩戴之后，他们便用酒精为护目镜进行消毒，再用紫外线灯照射半小时以上。
After wearing them in the quarantine area, they disinfected the goggles with alcohol and irradiated them with ultraviolet light for more than half an hour.
一线医护人员的防护问题始终是牵动外界的问题。
The protection of front-line medical personnel is always a problem affecting the outside world.
直到2月14日，全国医护人员在疫情中的感染数据首次被公布。
By February 14, the country's first data on health-care workers' exposure to the epidemic were released.
国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新在发布会介绍，2月11日24时，全国医务人员确诊病例1716例，占比3.8%。
At 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases (3.8 percent) were confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, said Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission.
其中有6人不幸死亡。
Six of them died as a result.
医务人员确诊病例中湖北有1502例，占全国医务人员确诊病例的87.5%，其中武汉市占1102例。
There were 1502 cases confirmed by medical staff in Hubei province, accounting for 87.5% of the cases diagnosed by medical personnel in China.
。
.
2月10日，护士正小心翼翼从病人鼻腔中进行核酸检测采样。
On Feb. 10, nurses were carefully taking nucleic acid samples from the patient's nasal cavity.
之前从口腔取样容易引起病人口沫飞溅，造成更大传染危险。
Prior to oral sampling from patients prone to spatter droplets, resulting in greater risk of infection.
此外，为了提高隔离的安全级别，红钢城社区卫生服务中心的二楼所有科室已经停止使用。
In addition, all sections on the second floor of the Red Steel City Community Health Service Centre have been decommissioned in order to enhance the security level of the isolation.
2月15日，胡冬冬拍摄完新沟桥街社区卫生服务中心。
On February 15, Hu Dongdong filmed the Community Health Service Centre on Xingou Bridge Street.
“这个病毒传染性确实非常强，我们也在医院里采访的时候也有一点担心。
"The virus is really very contagious and we were a little worried when we were in the hospital.
即使尽量做好了防护，但是也不确定我是不是哪一次就被传染上了。
Even if I tried to protect myself, I wasn't sure if I'd ever been infected.
”胡冬冬说。
"said Hu.
他接下来还要继续拍摄社区医院。
He will continue filming the community hospital next.
“但是这个事情发生了，你又是记者，而且又发生在你自己的家乡。
"But it happened, you were a journalist, and it happened back in your own country.
你难道不要去，这时候你必须有职责去记录和见证武汉的封城之后的各种各样的变化和事情，对不对？” 疫情期间，在这个国家的各个角落，数不清的个人体验正在同步发生。
You don't want to go at this point, you must have the duty to record and witness all the changes and events after the closure of Wuhan, right? "During the epidemic, countless personal experiences were occurring in all corners of the country.
我们希望对这段特殊时期的个人经历加以收集和呈现，以此作为一种记录与见证。
We hope to collect and present personal experiences from this particular period as a record and a witness.
图片、文字、视频……任何介质、任何形式的个人记录，都可以发送给我们。
Pictures, text, videos... any medium, any form of personal records, can be sent to us.
您可以选择将你的故事或者想提供的线索发送邮件至gqreport@163.com，也可以点击阅读原文，在问卷中上传与填写您的答案。
You may choose to send your story or any clues you wish to provide to gqreport @ 163.com, or you may click on the original text to upload and fill in your answers in the questionnaire.
在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：欧阳诗蕾编辑：靳锦摄影：胡冬冬运营编辑：肖呱呱。
In the background of the public response eggs, send you a colorful egg writing: Ouyang poetry editor: Jin Jin photography: Hu Dongdong operations editor: Xiao Quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
镜头下的武汉社区医院：临危受命的疫情最前线。
Wuhan Community Hospital: The Front Line of the Crisis-Directed Epidemic Disease.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "镜头下的武汉社区医院：临危受命的疫情最前线";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“武汉市所有的医疗人员基本上都在前线咬牙坚持着。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Almost all of Wuhan's medical personnel clenched their teeth at the front.
”";。
";;
title: '一对情侣拍摄的武汉：长江、猫咪、眯眼的老人，都在晒太阳',。
Wuhan, photographed by a couple: Changjiang, cats, and squint-eyed elderly men, all at S & amp; P; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一个武汉人的春节朋友圈',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一边送餐一边拍照：我看到了最真实的武汉',。
Take a picture while delivering a meal: I saw the truest Wuhan & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
