到边界拿货，货车司机组队……医疗物资如何打通武汉城。
To the border to pick up goods, truck drivers in groups... how medical supplies through Wuhan City.
南方周末记者。
Southern Weekend Journalist.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲大批量新国标标准的口罩正进入嘉兴“心脏仓” 。
Large quantities of new national standard masks are entering Jiaxing "heart warehouse."
（新华社/阿里巴巴供图/图）全文共4420字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text (Xinhua / Alibaba supply diagram / diagram) is 4,420 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
“缺口以万为单位”，武汉市汉口医院的常先生对南方周末记者说，该院每日防护服的消耗量在500－800件，按现有的消耗速度，“还能撑三天左右”。
"The gap is in the tens of thousands," Mr. Chang of Wuhan Hankou Hospital told Southern Weekend, told Southern Weekend that the daily consumption of protective clothing in the hospital was between 500 and 800.
快递速度有限，无法短时抵汉，部分快递滞留在武汉边界，无法进城，“医院需要从有限的工作人员中派出人手去边界交接”。
Express delivery speed is limited, can not reach the Han, some express stranded at the Wuhan border, unable to enter the city, "hospitals need to send staff from the limited staff to the border handover."
“有物资的话，要先联系政府，再报备车辆信息，然后再装车，出发。
"If you have supplies, contact the government first, report the vehicle information, and then load the vehicle and set off.
”在体温无异常情况下，关卡工作人员会发放一张免疫通行证，司机凭证入城。
When there is no abnormality in body temperature, the checkpoint staff issues an immunization pass and the driver passes into the city.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 敬奕步 李在磊 王伟凯南方周末实习生 龚柔善 叶梓责任编辑 | 张玥从除夕到大年初一，武汉多家医院的物资依然告急。
Li Yiming Li, an intern at Wang Weikai Southern Weekend Intern at Wang Weike Southern Weekend, is responsible for editing and supervising many hospitals in Wuhan from New Year's Eve to New Year's Day.
南方周末记者联系了6家武汉市医院，得知医疗物资仍有较大缺口，主要是一次性耗材，防护服、口罩、护目镜等。
Southern Weekend reporter contacted 6 Wuhan City Hospital, learned that there is still a large gap in medical supplies, mainly disposable supplies, protective clothing, masks, goggles and so on.
“缺口以万为单位。
The gap is in tens of thousands.
”武汉市汉口医院的常先生对南方周末记者说，该院每日防护服的消耗量在500－800件，按现有的消耗速度，“还能撑三天左右”。
Mr. Chang of Hankou Hospital in Wuhan City told Southern Weekend that the hospital consumes between 500 and 800 protective clothing a day, "which will last about three days" at the current consumption rate.
一边是物资告急，一边是社会救援力量汹涌。
On the one hand is urgent supplies, on the other is the surge of social assistance.
自2020年1月23日开始，陆续有九家武汉市医院对外发起接收爱心捐赠的公告，多天以来，公告中的诸多电话始终属于占线状态。
Since January 23, 2020, nine Wuhan City hospitals have issued notices to receive donations of love, and many of the calls in the notices have been busy for days.
在供需两端卡着物流环节。
At both ends of supply and demand stuck logistics links.
除夕夜，一位韵达快递相关负责人对南方周末记者说，还没有接到政府统筹快递企业运送医疗物资的通知，“武汉的车出不来，也基本上进不去，进去需要找人协调”。
On New Year's Eve, a senior official of Randa Express told Southern Weekend reporter that no notice had been received from the government to coordinate the delivery of medical supplies by express-delivery companies.
大年初一晚上，他们被组织了起来。
On the evening of New Year's Day, they were organized.
菜鸟联合中通、申通、韵达、AirCity国际物流集团、辛克物流等海内外十三家物流企业，开通面向武汉地区的社会捐赠救援物资免费运输绿色通道，目前首批已从安徽运输10万个口罩驰援武汉。
The first batch of 100,000 masks has been transported from Anhui Province to Wuhan to assist 13 logistics enterprises at home and abroad, including Ningtong, Shentong, Rongda, AirCity International Logistics Group and Xinke Logistics.
1来自医院的呼救1月24日是除夕，武汉光谷软件园楼下几乎人人戴着口罩，只露出一双眼睛，行走时，彼此隔着几米远。
1. On New Year's Eve, 24 January, almost everyone in Wuhan Gwanggu Software Garden wearing masks, only a pair of eyes, walking a few meters away from each other.
“（口罩）已经抢过一轮了。
"[Mask] has already taken one round.
”汉口崇仁路一家便利店的收银员说，送货的卡车被拦在城外，店面是否继续营业，仍在等待通知。
A cashier at a convenience store on Chongren Road in Hankou said delivery trucks had been stopped outside the city and were still waiting to be notified whether the store would continue to operate.
医院里情况更紧张。
The situation in the hospital is more tense.
1月22日，武汉协和医院的医生陈夏告诉南方周末记者，医院给部分非前线科室分发的口罩数量有限，这些科室的每个医生只分得几个口罩。
On January 22, Chen Xia, a doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, told Southern Weekend that the number of masks distributed by the hospital to some non-frontline departments was limited, and that each doctor in these departments was given only a few face masks.
“医院主要把物资用在了前线，发热病房、呼吸科、感染科等。
"The hospital is using supplies in the front line, in the fever ward, in the respiratory department, in the infection department, etc.
”尽管说明书写着一个口罩能用6-8小时，但建议2-3个小时就要更换，陈夏有些后悔在本地药房的口罩断货前没有囤够。
Despite the fact that it took six to eight hours to write a mask, Chen regretted that he had not stocked up enough masks at the local pharmacy before they were out of stock.
除夕夜，她接到好消息——朋友的朋友在柬埔寨旅游，当地药房有少量医用口罩在售，售价3美元/盒。
On New Year's Eve, she received good news - friends of friends were traveling in Cambodia, and a small number of medical masks were on sale at the local pharmacy for $3 / case.
陈夏立马托人买了四盒共200个口罩。
Chen immediately sent a messenger to buy four boxes of 200 masks.
徐小宁是武汉市汉阳医院的医生，她告诉南方周末记者，截至1月23日，该院防护服库存以及正在投入使用的防护服数量共约1350套。
Xu Xiaoning, a doctor at Wuhan Hanyang Hospital, told Southern Weekend that as of January 23, the number of protective clothing in stock and in service was about 1,350.
该院每天有一千多位医护人员上岗，按正常的物资供应，每个医护人员需要两套防护服，一套正常使用，另一套供破损时备用。
The hospital has more than 1,000 medical staff on duty every day. With regular supplies, each medical staff needs two sets of protective clothing, one for normal use and the other for use in case of breakage.
但实际供应并不够。
But actual supply is not enough.
由于防护服短缺，医院只能供发热病区、传染病区、呼吸病区等重点病区的医护人员每人一套防护服，并要求反复使用。
Due to the shortage of protective clothing, the hospital can only supply a suit of protective clothing for each person in key disease areas such as febrile, infectious and respiratory areas.
这已经是较好的条件了，因为“其他的普通病房和ICU病房都没有发”。
This is a good condition, because "the other general wards and ICU wards have not been issued."
医用级别的口罩、帽子、手套、鞋套的库存更加短缺。
Stocks of medical-grade masks, hats, gloves and shoe covers are even more in short supply.
1月23日，徐小宁告诉南方周末记者，“N95口罩一个都没有，现在都是用的普通口罩，戴总比不戴好”。
January 23, Xu Xiaoning told Southern Weekend reporter, "N95 mask is not a, are now used in ordinary masks, wearing is better than not wearing."
如果没有及时补货，这些普通口罩三天左右会被用完。
If not replenished in time, these common masks will be used up in about three days.
23日起，汉阳医院面向社会公开征集医护资源，截至24日晚，征集到了二百余个口罩、八百余副手套，但防护服依然没有。
As of the evening of the 24th, more than 200 masks and 800 pairs of gloves had been collected, but the protective clothing was still missing.
“正常来说N95口罩是4小时换一次，我们会在N95口罩里面再放一个普通口罩，这样只更换普通口罩，N95口罩就能用久一点。
"Normally, N95 masks are changed every four hours. We will put another mask under the N95 mask so that the mask will last longer.
”武汉市中医医院万先生告诉南方周末记者。
Mr. Wan, Wuhan TCM Hospital, told Southern Weekend reporter.
此前的1月20日，武汉市卫健委成立了新型肺炎防控指挥部，由指挥部进行医护资源的统一调配。
Earlier, on January 20, Wuhan Health Commission set up a new command of pneumonia prevention and control, the command of the unified deployment of medical resources.
万先生告诉南方周末记者，每天要在8时、14时、18时分别向指挥部报备3次，报备内容为医院的库存量、需求量、消耗量等，指挥部获知各个医院具体情况后，再结合库存进行医护资源分配。
Mr. Wan told Southern Weekend reporter that he would report three times a day to the headquarters at 8: 00, 14: 00 and 18: 00, respectively, to report levels of hospital stocks, demand and consumption.
2到边界拿货除夕当天，在武汉持续工作的部分媒体记者们自备的口罩所剩无几。
On New Year's Eve, some of the media reporters working continuously in Wuhan had few face masks left.
他们在大年初一从志愿者手里拿到了一些口罩，但防护服和护目镜等设备由于交通限制，无法取得。
They took some masks from volunteers on New Year's Day, but equipment such as protective clothing and goggles could not be obtained because of traffic restrictions.
“市区内活动很困难了，志愿者想送几副眼镜给我，都送不到，”一位在武汉的记者说，“大年初一下午，市区内还能打到出租车，但是不能跨区。
"It is very difficult to move around the city. Volunteers who want to send me a few pairs of glasses will not be able to deliver them," said a reporter in Wuhan.
过了午夜十二点，就要全面限制机动车了。
After midnight, there will be a complete ban on motor vehicles.
”不仅武汉市内各区限行，市外的车辆想进来也非常困难。
Not only is it restricted to all districts in Wuhan, but it is also very difficult for vehicles outside the city to get in.
原本拉货的货车司机也有了畏难情绪，“怕进去（武汉）了就出不来”。
Originally hauled goods truck driver also had the fear of difficult emotions, "afraid to go in (Wuhan) can not get out."
多位武汉人士向南方周末记者表示，目前物流存在严重滞后。
Several Wuhan people told Southern Weekend reporter that there is a serious lag in logistics.
徐小宁告诉南方周末记者，快递速度有限，无法短时间抵汉，部分快递滞留在武汉边界，无法进城，“医院需要从有限的工作人员中派出人手去边界交接”。
Xu told Southern Weekend reporter, express speed is limited, can not reach the Han, some express delivery stranded in Wuhan border, unable to enter the city, "hospitals need to send people from the limited staff to the border handover."
为避免疫情进一步扩散，1月23日10时起，武汉全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
To avoid further spread of the epidemic, Wuhan city-wide bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transport operation was suspended from 1000 hours on January 23; the Han corridor at airports and railway stations was temporarily closed.
武汉“封城”，医护资源要到达前线就更难了。
Wuhan "closure", medical resources to reach the front line is even more difficult.
这时，多位住在武汉的热心人士自发组织起来，通过建立微信群传递物资信息，对接寻求支援的医院、货源方和货车司机，构建出一张自救的运输网。
At this time, a number of Wuhan-based enthusiasts spontaneously organized, through the establishment of micro-groups to deliver material information, to seek support of hospitals, sources and truck drivers, to build a self-help transport network.
郑权是一位武汉人，开着一家运输公司，有自己的车队，他们加入了志愿运输队伍。
Zheng Quan is a Wuhan, driving a transport company, with its own fleet, they joined the voluntary transport team.
1月22号，一批共约5万只来自山东的口罩要运到武汉，还有70%的货没运到，武汉就“封城”了。
Wuhan on January 22, a total of about 50,000 masks from Shandong were to be transported to Wuhan, and 70 percent of the goods had not arrived.
郑权接到消息，让对方把货发到襄阳，再派车队里没回家过年的司机去武汉边界接应。
Zheng Guan received the message, let the other party send goods to Xiangyang, and then send the convoy did not go home to meet the Wuhan border drivers.
大年三十，连夜把货转运进来，再分发到武汉的各大药店。
In the New Year's Eve, the goods are transferred in, and then distributed to the major pharmacies in Wuhan.
大年初一早上，所有的货就分完了。
On the morning of New Year's Day, all the goods are divided up.
“一部分口罩，碰到了路上的环卫工、交警，就无偿送给了他们。
"Some face masks, encountered the road sanitation workers, traffic police, on a pro bono to give them.
”郑权说。
"said Zheng Quan.
郑权告诉南方周末记者，现在人力资源紧缺，公司即便有自己的车队，司机也只剩两三个，实际能投入运输的车辆数量也就两三台。
Zheng Quan told Southern Weekend reporter that human resources are scarce, even if the company has its own fleet, the driver is only two or three, the actual number of vehicles can be put into transport.
再加上信息不对称，很多有需求的市民或者医疗机构无法联系到他，车队资源并未得到有效利用。
Coupled with information asymmetry, he is inaccessible to many needy citizens or medical institutions and fleet resources are not being used effectively.
就算这样，郑权的车队很快将无法继续在武汉市内协助派送医护资源了。
Even so, Zheng Guan's motorcade will soon be unable to continue delivering medical resources in Wuhan.
据1月25日下午武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部的通告，26日0时起，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理。
According to the notice of Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued on the afternoon of January 25, motor vehicles are prohibited in central urban areas except for licensed transport vehicles, free transport vehicles and official vehicles.
“如果政府有需求要求我们去办，我们会配合。
"If the government wants us to do it, we will do it.
”郑权希望，医疗物资的传送能够集中在一两家能够达到运力要求的大型物流公司，在指定的地点统一收件和派发援助物资，减少混乱，保障物资运输的有序性和及时性。
Mr Cheng hopes that the delivery of medical supplies will be concentrated in one or two large logistics companies able to meet capacity requirements, consolidate receipt and distribution of aid at designated locations, reduce confusion and ensure orderly and timely delivery of goods.
3自发组织的货车司机武汉“封城”后，在一个近500人的微信群里，志愿者们24小时不间断地更新着消息，包括征求市民车辆帮忙接送援助资源、机动车停运后各社区出租车分配名单、各个医院物资需求情况等。
In a group of nearly 500 people, volunteers kept up-to-date news 24 hours a day after a self-organized van driver named Wuhan, including asking for public vehicles to help with the transportation of aid resources, the distribution list of taxis in communities after the suspension of motor vehicles, and the material needs of hospitals.
34岁的曹师傅是这次运口罩回武汉的司机。
Cao Shifu, 34, was the driver of the mask back to Wuhan.
他是湖南人，因为担心会成为病毒携带者、传染给家人，他没有回家过年。
He is Hunan, because he is afraid of becoming a carrier of the virus, infect his family, he did not go home for the New Year.
除夕夜，他开着一台七座面包车，装了75箱N95口罩，每箱约有304个口罩。
On New Year's Eve, he drove a seven-seater van with 75 boxes of N95 masks, each containing about 304 masks.
大年初一凌晨两点，他才结束当天的运输工作。
New Year's Day at 2 a.m., he just finished the day's transport work.
曹师傅介绍，一开始，他打算走天河机场高速公路，但对方不予放行，在明确表示他是物流公司工作人员，需要前往襄阳转运医疗物资之后，对方依旧坚持必须持有医院开具的健康证明才能通过。
Cao explained that at first, he planned to take the Tianhe Airport Expressway, but the other side refused to let him through. After he made it clear that he was a staff member of a logistics company and needed to transship medical supplies to Xiangyang, the other side insisted that he must hold a medical certificate issued by the hospital.
随后他转走国道，在体温检测显示正常之后得以出城。
He then turned to the National Highway and was able to leave town after his temperature test showed that it was normal.
“现在出武汉的路都要测体温，在国道上每走大概三四十公里就要停下来测体温。
"Now the road out of Wuhan to take temperature, in the national road every 30 or 40 kilometers to stop to take temperature.
”曹师傅说。
"said Master Cao.
作为直接接触医护资源的一线货运司机，他每天都要洗手消毒、戴上好几层防护口罩、定时测体温，“这是对别人负责”。
As a front-line cargo driver who is in direct contact with health care resources, he disinfects his hands, puts on several layers of face masks and takes regular temperature checks every day.
在装载口罩等物资进入武汉时，这些货运司机被要求先做好车辆登记，在体温无异常情况下，关卡工作人员会发放一张免疫通行证，司机凭证入城。
When supplies such as face masks arrive in Wuhan, the drivers are required to register their vehicles and, in the absence of abnormal body temperature, a pass is issued by the checkpoint staff and the driver documents enter the city.
李铭是四川元邦物流公司的老板，这两天，他在朋友圈、微信群里发布信息，如果有口罩等医护工具、生活物资要运往湖北的，他的车队可以免费帮忙运输，货车从乐山和成都出发。
Li Ming, the owner of the Sichuan Yuanbang logistics company, has been posting messages in groups of friends and micro-letters for two days. If medical supplies such as masks are to be transported to Hubei, his motorcade will be free to help transport the vehicles from Leshan and Chengdu.
2008年汶川地震时，他就曾给灾区运送过物资。
When Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, he had sent materials to the disaster areas.
他向南方周末记者表示，如果有物资捐赠，一定要先跟湖北方面联系，否则很难送进去。
He told Southern Weekend reporter, if have material donation, must contact with Hubei respect first, otherwise very difficult to send in.
在抖音上，有一些往湖北运送物资的货车视频，不少都打着“物资运输”的条幅，但据陈铭介绍，光有这些条幅是不够的。
There were videos of trucks carrying supplies to Hubei, many of them carrying banners of "material transport," but Chen said the banners were not enough.
还需要从政府相关部门拿到通行证。
Permits are also required from relevant government departments.
“有物资的话，要先联系政府，再报备车辆信息，然后再装车，出发。
"If you have supplies, contact the government first, report the vehicle information, and then load the vehicle and set off.
”李铭向南方周末记者表示。
Li Ming told Southern Weekend reporter.
陈鹏是一个不愿意留姓名的黑龙江小货车司机，他平时的业务是向全国各地运送货物，前几天往武汉运货，正好赶上了封城，他就选择留了下来。
Chen Peng, an unnamed driver of a Heilongjiang pick-up truck whose business is to deliver goods to different parts of the country, shipped goods to Wuhan a few days ago, just in time to catch the city, he chose to stay.
除夕这天晚上，他向武汉市红十字会报备了自己的货车和电话信息，随时听候派遣。
On New Year's Eve, he reported his truck and telephone messages to the Wuhan Red Cross and was ready to be dispatched.
“疫情这么严重，我又在武汉，就不出去给大家添乱了。
"The epidemic is so serious, I am in Wuhan, do not go out to add to the chaos.
”电话中，陈鹏的声音听起来很乐观、爽朗，时不时客气地笑一声。
On the phone, Peng Chen's voice sounded optimistic and clear, with a polite smile from time to time.
当被问及姓名时，他用东北口音笑着说，就写一个来自黑龙江的好心司机就行了。
When asked his name, he said with a northeast accent and smiled. Just write a kind driver from Heilongjiang.
他告诉南方周末记者，决定不出城之后，他购置了大量的方便面、面包、水饺、元宵等生活物资，也购买了一些口罩，这些生活用品够他过上十来天。
He told Southern Weekend that when he decided not to go to the city, he bought lots of instant noodles, bread, dumplings, dumplings, and masks.
不过，让他感到遗憾的是，一直还没有人给他打电话让他帮忙运送物资。
He regrets, however, that he has not yet been called to help deliver supplies.
4飞机、火车、汽车组成的物流绿色通道在物流公司当中，顺丰和京东率先组织起了开往武汉的特殊救援通道。
Among the logistics companies, Shunfeng and Jingdong took the lead in organizing the special rescue passageway to Wuhan.
顺丰调配飞机，京东调配汽车和火车。
Shunfeng deployment aircraft, Jingdong deployment of cars and trains.
1月24日14：30，顺丰航空一架载有16吨医疗物资的飞机在武汉天河机场安全落地。
At 1430 hours on January 24, an aircraft carrying 16 tons of medical supplies landed safely at Wuhan Tianhe Airport.
这是当天运送医疗物资到武汉的第二架驰援飞机，第一架已于12时05分抵达，两架专机带来了32吨药品和口罩。
The first arrived at 1205 hours, bringing with it 32 tons of medicine and masks.
此前一天，顺丰速运有限公司发布公告，公司将全力协调资源，优先保障特殊需求物资往武汉的运输派送服务。
The day before, Shunfeng Express Co. Ltd. issued a notice, the company will focus on coordinating resources, priority to ensure that special needs materials to Wuhan transport delivery services.
大年初一，顺丰再发公告，针对海内外为武汉等地提供救援物资的寄递，建议国内个人捐赠先与所在地慈善组织联系，由专业机构统筹捐赠事宜；海外捐赠先联系有资质的社会团体或基金会，得到接收确认后，顺丰可提供国内段公益运输支持。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, Shunfeng issued a notice to Wuhan and other places for the delivery of relief materials, it is recommended that domestic individuals first contact the local charitable organizations, the professional organizations will co-ordinate donations; overseas donations contact qualified social organizations or foundations, Shunfeng can provide domestic public transport support.
同一天，京东物流也正式开通全国各地驰援武汉救援物资的特别通道，接受地方政府、公益组织、企事业单位和医疗器械生产企业等机构组织对武汉地区的援助需求，暂不接受个人捐助。
On the same day, Jingdong Logistics officially opened a special passage to Wuhan rescue materials all over the country, accepting requests for assistance from local governments, public welfare organizations, enterprises and institutions, as well as medical device manufacturers.
京东方面人士告诉南方周末记者，至农历正月十五，京东物流将优先配送医疗机构指定的订单。
Jingdong people told Southern Weekend reporter that by the fifteenth day of the first month of the lunar calendar, Jingdong logistics will give priority to distribution of orders designated by medical institutions.
他说，1月21日晚上十点，一家湖北宜昌的药厂打来求援电话，生产的800箱共16000盒磷酸奥司他韦颗粒需要紧急送货，京东连夜调配两辆7.6米长物流车，将这些药品及时送达。
At 10 p.m. on January 21, a pharmaceutical factory in Yichang, Hubei Province, called for help to produce 800 boxes of oseltamivir phosphate granules requiring urgent delivery, and two 7.6-metre logistics trucks were deployed overnight to deliver the drugs.
在“封城”情况下，京东物流申请紧急调令，与中铁快运密切配合，通过防疫高铁绿色通道输送防疫物资。
In the "closure" situation, Jingdong logistics application emergency transfer, and the fast rail transport close cooperation, through epidemic prevention high-speed rail transport epidemic prevention materials.
除夕当天，从北京、广州发往武汉的防疫物资，分别装运在北京西至汉口的G521次高铁和广州北至武昌的K1080次行李车上。
On New Year's Eve, epidemic prevention materials were shipped from Beijing and Guangzhou to Wuhan, carrying G521 High Speed Rail from Beijing to Hankou and K1080 from Guangzhou to Wuchang respectively.
两趟列车除了装载有武汉市民从京东上购买的防疫物资外，还有一批爱心企业捐赠的防疫物资，包括1万个口罩、1000件防化服、7200瓶洗手液、7200瓶清洁剂和40台空气净化器等。
In addition to the epidemic prevention materials purchased by Wuhan city residents from Jingdong, the two trains also have donated epidemic prevention materials, including 10,000 masks, 1,000 chemical-control suits, 7,200 bottles of hand sanitizers, 7,200 bottles of detergent and 40 air purifiers.
1月25日晚，菜鸟发布公告，联合中通、申通、韵达、AirCity国际物流集团等13家物流企业，开通面向武汉地区的社会捐赠救援物资免费运输绿色通道。
On the evening of January 25, the rookie announced that it would unite 13 logistics enterprises, including China Tong, Shentong, Rongda and AirCity International Logistics Group, and open a free transportation green passage for donations of relief materials to Wuhan.
但实际上，目前快件的时效仍然不易保障。
In practice, however, express time limits are still not easily guaranteed.
阻力来自三个方面：武汉雨水不断的天气影响；过年期间紧张的货运资源；以及来自当地交通防疫的延时。
The resistance comes from three sources: the impact of continuous rain in Wuhan; strained freight resources during the Lunar New Year; and delays in local transportation and immunization.
一位顺丰方面人士对南方周末记者说，近日武汉雨水不断，物流运输时间延长，“跑不起来车”。
A source in Shunfeng told Southern Weekend reporter that the recent rain in Wuhan, logistics transport time extended, "can not run up the car."
而且春节期间，员工都回家了，资源不充裕，对此，顺丰拿出1.5亿元的特殊激励金，奖励春节期间值班的员工。
Moreover, during the Spring Festival, the staff returned home, resources are not sufficient, Shunfeng put out a special incentive of 150 million yuan to reward the staff on duty during the Spring Festival.
在交通管制方面，“我们现在所有进出武汉的快递，哪怕是中转，都要严格按照国家规定，在中转场进行二次消毒”，这就不可避免延长了物流时效。
In traffic control, "we now in and out of Wuhan express, even in transit, must be strictly in accordance with state regulations, re-sterilization in the field," which inevitably lengthened the logistics expiration.
1月25日，一位武汉市民告诉南方周末记者，他看到大量护送物资的军车，在武汉街头呼啸驶过。
On January 25, a Wuhan city citizen told Southern Weekend reporter that he had seen a large number of military vehicles escorting supplies roaring through the streets of Wuhan.
“正规军”即将入场。
The "regular army" will enter soon.
（应受访者要求，陈夏、徐小宁、李铭、陈鹏为化名。
(At the request of interviewees, Chen Xia, Xu Xiaoning, Li Ming and Chen Peng are aliases.
南方周末记者黄金萍、徐庭芳对本文亦有贡献）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Southern Weekend reporter Jin Ping, Xu Tingfang also contributed to this article. "Southern Weekend" is now open to all readers in the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）其他人都在看：。
I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I can't answer your question. I'm sorry, but I'm not sure if I can keep your information secret.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
到边界拿货，货车司机组队……医疗物资如何打通武汉城。
To the border to pick up goods, truck drivers in groups... how medical supplies through Wuhan City.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "到边界拿货，货车司机组队……医疗物资如何打通武汉城";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
