跨省追捕、5天宣判 多地公检法稳准狠打击“口罩诈骗案”。
Cross-provincial pursuit, five days of sentencing many public prosecution law firmly crack down on "mask fraud".
张家振。
Zhang Jiazhen.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 张家振 北京报道江苏省宜兴市某企业采购员刘缘（化名）通过网络向一名异地供货商采购8万只口罩，不料在足额缴纳货款后，陷入了“财货两空”的境地。
This reporter Zhang JiazhenBeijing reported that Liu Yuan (not his real name), an enterprise buyer in Yixing City, Jiangsu Province, purchased 80,000 masks from an off-site supplier through the network.
宜兴市公安局经多日缜密侦查，“逆行”千里最终在2月14日将身居海南三亚的犯罪嫌疑人陈某（男，24岁）抓获。
Yixing City Public Security Bureau after many days of meticulous investigation, "retrograde" thousands of li in February 14 Hainan Sanya suspects Chen Mou (men, 24 years old) arrested.
经审查，陈某如实交代，在明知无货源的情况下，仍以出售口罩名义，收取订货款24万元，随后提供虚假物流单号并拒不退还货款的犯罪事实。
After examination, Chen said truthfully, in the knowledge that there is no source of supply, still in the name of selling masks, order 240,000 yuan, and then provide false logistics number and refuse to refund the purchase price of the crime.
（2月14日，江苏宜兴警方远赴海南三亚将涉嫌诈骗的陈某抓获归案。
(February 14, Jiangsu Yixing police went to Sanya Hainan Province to arrest Chen Mou suspected of fraud.
）《中国经营报》记者辗转同刘缘取得了联系。
"China Business News" reporter ran over with Liu Yuan to make contact.
据其介绍，公司为复工复产急需采购8万只一次性医用口罩，2月7日经人介绍最终和供货商陈某取得联系，但对方通过提供虚假视频和单号等方式搪塞，直到11日也没有发货。
According to its introduction, the company urgently needs to buy 80,000 disposable medical masks to resume production, February 7 was introduced to the supplier Chen Mou, but the other side through the provision of false video and single number and other means of prevarication, until 11 did not deliver goods.
“后来才发现，对方根本就没有口罩货源，采购信息也被倒卖了多次。
"It turned out that the other party had no source of masks at all and that the purchase information had been resold several times.
”刘缘告诉记者。
Liu Yuan told reporters.
刘缘的遭遇并非个案。
Liu Yuan's experience is not isolated.
随着全国多地企业陆续迎来复工复产潮，作为复工必备“通行证”之一的口罩，成为一些人通过网络实施诈骗的诱饵。
As many enterprises across the country usher in the resumption of industrial production, as one of the necessary "laissez-passer" masks, become some people through the network fraud bait.
据了解，全国多地警方正加大对网购口罩诈骗案等相关违法行为的侦办力度，检察院和法院也从快审理。
It is understood that police across the country is increasing the investigation of online mask fraud cases and other related violations of the law, the procuratorate and the courts from the fast.
目前，江苏省南通市港闸区、安徽省宁国市等多地法院已对辖区内的“口罩诈骗案”依法作出判决。
At present, Nantong City, Jiangsu Province, Ningguo City, Anhui Province, and other multi-district courts have been the jurisdiction of the "mask fraud case" in accordance with the law.
求购信息被倒卖对接采购事宜的人员在新疆乌鲁木齐，口罩生产厂家位于广东广州，收款账号和开户银行却显示在海南三亚，刘缘在采购口罩的过程中，陷入了对方早已布好的“陷阱”。
Purchasing information was resold and docked in Urumqi, Xinjiang, mask manufacturer is located in Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, the account number and bank account are shown in Sanya, Hainan Province, where Liu Yuan was caught in a long-set "trap" while procuring masks.
据宜兴市公安局“平安宜兴”发布的信息，刘缘所在的公司是宜兴市首批获准复工复产的企业之一，有员工上千人，为切实做好当前疫情防控工作，企业积极落实防控措施要求，为企业员工集中采购防护口罩。
According to information released by the Yixing City Public Security Bureau, Liu Yuan's company was one of the first enterprises in Yixing City to be allowed to resume production, with thousands of employees. To effectively do a good job in the prevention and control of the current epidemic, enterprises actively implement the requirements of prevention and control measures for enterprise employees centralized procurement of respirators.
经人介绍，刘缘终于和一名异地供货商取得联系。
After the introduction of Liu Yuan and a distant supplier finally contacted.
在双方谈妥采购数量后，采购员于2月7日按照约定通过公司账户先行打款给对方24万元，不久对方就发来了快递单号。
After the two sides had negotiated the purchase quantity, the buyer made an advance payment of 240,000 yuan through the company account on February 7.
但就在4天后的2月11日，当采购员查询快递时发现，快递单号突然被取消，当再次与对方联系时，对方承认未发货但以种种理由拒不退还货款。
But just four days later, on Feb. 11, when the buyer inquired about courier service, he found that the express order number had suddenly been cancelled and, when contacted again, the other party acknowledged that the shipment had not been delivered but refused to refund the purchase price for various reasons.
据刘缘介绍，2月7日其在朋友介绍下与一位姬姓人员取得了联系，约定以3元每只的价格向其采购8万只口罩并支付了24万元货款，对方再三保证7日当天发货，结果一直到11日都没有发货。
He was introduced by a friend on Feb. 7 and agreed to buy 80,000 masks and pay 240,000 yuan for them at a price of $3 each. He repeatedly promised to deliver the goods on February 7, but none was delivered until February 11, Liu said.
刘缘表示，后来才了解到，姬姓人员身处新疆乌鲁木齐，其通过朋友玲玲，玲玲又从陈某处采购这批口罩。
Liu said it later transpired that the surname was in Urumqi, Xinjiang, and that her friend Lingling, Lingling, was purchasing the masks from somewhere in Chen.
“其实他们都没有口罩货源，相当于我的求购信息被倒卖了，最终收款承诺发货的是陈某。
"In fact, they do not have a supply of masks, equivalent to my purchase information was resold, the final collection promise is the delivery of Chen.
在这一过程中，姬姓人员获利3.2万元，玲玲获利8000元，陈某实际收取的货款只有20万元。
In this process, Ji staff profit 32,000 yuan, Lingling profits 8000 yuan, Chen Mou actually received only 200, 000 yuan.
”刘缘告诉记者。
Liu Yuan told reporters.
（陈某提供的虚假口罩产品合格证信息。
(Chen Mou provided false mask products qualified information.
）其间，陈某向刘缘发来了口罩样品照片、产品合格证和生产企业营业执照、医疗器械生产企业许可证等信息。
) In the meantime, Chen sent Liu Yuan a mask sample photo, product certificate and production enterprise business license, medical device manufacturing enterprise license and other information.
相关信息显示，陈某承诺发货的口罩生产厂家为广州市洛华医疗器械实业有限公司。
Relevant information shows that Chen promised to deliver the mask manufacturer for Guangzhou Luohua Medical Device Industrial Co. Ltd.
“陈某一直欺骗我们已经发货，并发来了虚假的顺丰快递单号。
"Chen has been deceiving us that we have been shipped, and sent a fake Shun Fung express order number.
我们查询这个快递单号一直没有揽收信息，并且单号显示的运费和实际货物重量也不对应。
We queried the courier order number and never received the message, and the single number did not correspond to the actual cargo weight.
”刘缘告诉记者。
Liu Yuan told reporters.
2月10日，经刘缘再三催促，快递单号显示首批7万只口罩已被揽收，但运费只有18元。
February 10, Liu Yuan, repeatedly urged, express delivery order number showed that the first 70, 000 masks have been collected, but the freight cost is only 18 yuan.
“据我们了解，这7万只口罩经顺丰快递发货的费用至少会有600元，不可能只有18元，而且到了当天晚上9点钟，我们再查询发现这个快递已经被取消了。
"As far as we know, the cost of shipping the 70,000 masks through Shun Fung Express would be at least 600 yuan, not just 18 yuan.
”刘缘表示。
"Liu said.
2月11日，在无法和陈某取得联系后，刘缘选择了向当地公安机关报警。
Feb. 11, in the inability to contact Chen, Liu Yuan chose to alert the local public security organs.
为全力保障企业正常生产经营秩序，宜兴警方接警后立即抽调刑警、网安和高塍派出所等部门力量展开侦查，初步掌握了嫌疑人的行踪位于海南三亚。
In order to fully guarantee the normal production and management order of enterprises, Yixing police immediately after receiving the police investigation departments such as criminal police, network security and Gao Zhong police stations opened an investigation, and initially grasped the suspect's whereabouts in Sanya, Hainan.
2月13日，专案民警不惧当前疫情防控紧张形势，出征三亚开展线索核查。
February 13, ad hoc civilian police do not fear the current tense situation of disease prevention and control, travel to Sanya to conduct clues verification.
据宜兴市公安局相关负责人介绍，在海南警方的全力支持下，抽出了当地精干警力会同宜兴警方连夜展开侦查研判，摸准了嫌疑人陈某的具体位置，并于2月14日中午将其成功抓获。
With the full support of Hainan police, the local elite police force, together with the Yixing police, launched an overnight investigation and investigation to find out the exact location of suspect Chen Mou, who was successfully arrested on February 14, according to the relevant official of the Yixing Public Security Bureau.
目前，陈某已被依法刑事拘留，宜兴警方正全力开展追赃挽损，案件正在进一步办理中。
At present, Chen Mou has been lawfully detained on criminal charges, Yixing police are fully engaged in the recovery of stolen property damage, the case is being further processed.
诈骗资金用于网络赌博同样遭到警方跨省追击的还有四川人陈某（男，26岁）。
Fraud funds used for online gambling is also being pursued by police across provinces Sichuan Chen (male, 26 years old).
2月16日，四川省绵阳市三台县警方披露，2月14日，警方奔赴云南将发布虚假口罩信息实施诈骗，最终携款潜逃的嫌疑人陈某抓获，并于次日凌晨押解回三台。
Police in Santai County, Mianyang City, Sichuan Province, reported on Feb. 14, the police will release false mask information to commit fraud, finally arrested the absconded suspect Chen Mou, and returned to three in the early morning.
经查，陈某于2020年1月底至2月10日间，陆续通过微信朋友圈发布售卖医用一次性口罩以及N90、N95口罩等信息，累计收到全国各地30余名受害人的口罩订单，数量达到44万余只，涉案金额104余万元。
Between the end of January and February 10, 2020, Chen distributed medical disposable masks and N90 and N95 masks through a network of micro-friends. In total, orders for masks were received from more than 30 victims nationwide, amounting to more than 440,000 yuan, involving a total of 1.04 million yuan.
陈某在收到货款后并无口罩发货，遂携款潜逃至云南。
Chen Mou received the money after the delivery of no masks, then fled to Yunnan with money.
当地警方介绍，为了给潜逃赢得时间，陈某在成都购买了7000元的卫生纸，打包成46件快递包裹发往各地，并拍摄发货视频发给买家谎称已发货。
To buy time for absconding, Chen bought 7,000 yuan toilet paper in Chengdu, packaged it into 46 express parcels and sent it to buyers on video of the shipment, local police said.
经查，陈某共收到口罩货款104万元，大部分已被其用于网络赌博挥霍。
After investigation, Chen received a total of 1.04 million yuan for masks, most of them have been used for online gambling profligate.
记者梳理发现，全国多地警方正从快查处涉及售卖三无口罩、借出售口罩诈骗等各类违法案件。
Reporters carded found that police in many parts of the country from the fast-track investigation involving the sale of three masks, selling masks fraud and other types of illegal cases.
例如，截至2月11日，广州市公安局共查处涉疫情案件226宗，抓获涉案人员146人，超八成涉及口罩诈骗。
For example, as of February 11, the Guangzhou Municipal Public Security Bureau had investigated and dealt with 226 cases involving 146 people.
其中，查处购买口罩电信诈骗犯罪案件188宗，刑事拘留嫌疑人87人。
Among them, investigation and punishment purchase mask telecommunication fraud 188 cases, criminal detention suspects 87.
据广州市公安局刑警支队副支队长潘国良介绍，在口罩诈骗案件中，超过98%没有口罩实物，都是以低于市面价格售卖，收完钱就拉黑、电话删掉。
Pang Guoliang, deputy chief of the criminal investigation police branch of Guangzhou Public Security Bureau, said more than 98% of the cases of mask fraud were sold at below-market prices.
只有个别是订大量货只交一小部分等。
Only a few are ordered in large quantities and only a small portion are delivered.
其中，最大诈骗额达105万元，诈骗分子把这些钱用于网络赌博。
Among them, the largest amount of fraud amounted to 1.05 million yuan, fraudsters used the money for online gambling.
各地公检法等部门也加大了“口罩诈骗案”的查处力度，对通过假借销售口罩进行诈骗的违法犯罪行为从严从快查处。
Public prosecutors around the law and other departments have also increased the "mask fraud case" investigation and punishment, through the sale of fake mask fraud of illegal acts from the fast investigation.
例如，2月7日，江苏省南通市港闸区人民法院适用速裁程序，通过远程视频依法公开开庭审理了全国首起借疫情开展的“口罩诈骗案”，对被告人张正以诈骗罪判处有期徒刑一年六个月，并处罚金人民币1万元。
For example, on February 7, the People's Court of Nantong City, Jiangsu Province, applied an expedited arbitration procedure and held the nation's first "mask fraud" trial by video teleconference. Zhang is being sentenced to one year and six months in prison and fined 10,000 yuan for fraud.
2月13日，安徽省宁国市人民法院公开开庭审理黄某某涉嫌网购口罩诈骗案，法院以诈骗罪判处黄某某有期徒刑二年八个月，并处罚金人民币3万元，且责令其退赔被害人季某某损失人民币3.56万元。
The court sentenced Huang to two years and eight months in prison for fraud, fined 30,000 yuan and ordered him to repay the victim's quarterly loss of 35,600 yuan.
该案从公安机关移送检察机关至庭审判决仅用5天。
It took only five days for the case to be transferred from the public security organs to trial.
优先保障防疫、复工需求据了解，出于复工复产的防护需要，口罩正成为企业大批量采购的“抢手货”，制售假冒伪劣口罩、利用口罩等防护物资进行网络诈骗等也成为不法分子非法牟利的手段。
Priority is given to epidemic prevention and resumption of work It is understood that, in order to resume production protection needs, masks are becoming a large number of enterprises procurement "hot", fake and low-quality masks, the use of masks and other protective equipment network fraud has become illegal profit-making means.
相关资料显示，距离武汉100余公里的仙桃市，有3000多家无纺布、口罩或防护服生产企业，有“中国非织造布产业名城”之称，曾一度成为国内最大的一次性口罩生产基地。
According to relevant data, more than 3,000 enterprises producing non-woven cloth, masks or protective clothing in the city of Xiantao, more than 100 kilometers away from Wuhan, were once the country's largest single-use mask production base, according to relevant data.
（仙洪高速仙桃南服务区临时设立的口罩转运场所。
(Temporary Mask Transfer Station in Sian Hong High Speed Andromeda South Service Area.
）2月14日，为优先保障防疫和企业复工需求，湖北省仙桃市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布第7号令，进一步加强疫情防控期间口罩等防护物资生产销售管控，所有口罩、防护服等防护物资由市防控指挥部统一调配，任何企业不得私自交易，同时严查“三无”、假冒伪劣产品，对违规生产销售的企业和个人，从重从快从严惩处。
On February 14, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Xiantao City, Hubei Province, issued Order No. 7 to further strengthen the control of the production and sale of protective materials such as masks and protective clothing.
为稳定出厂价格，仙桃对口罩销售出厂价实行政府指导限价，一次性医用口罩价格不得高于1.20元/片，非医用口罩价格不得高于1.00元/片。
To stabilize the factory price, the price of surgical masks should be limited by government guidelines. The price of disposable medical masks should not exceed $1.20 per tablet, and the price of non-medical masks should not exceed $1.00 per tablet.
对违反政府指导限价的行为予以严厉打击。
Severe action was taken against violations of government-directed price caps.
据仙桃一家口罩生产企业负责人介绍，一只口罩在平常的成本大概2毛钱，现在随着原材料和人工成本上涨，一只口罩的成本大概在6毛钱左右。
A mask costs about 20 cents at the usual cost, but now costs about 60 cents as raw materials and labor costs rise, according to the head of a mask-making business in Xiantao.
“原材料翻了1倍，人工价格比平常上涨了四五倍，平常一个工人工资2000～3000块钱一个月，现在一天1000元甚至开到1200元还不一定能招到工人。
"The raw materials have doubled, the price of labor has gone up four or five times as much as usual. A worker's salary of 2,000 to 3,000 yuan a month is not always enough to recruit workers, but 1,000 yuan a day or 1,200 yuan a day.
”记者在采访中了解到，为加速口罩生产和供应，当地在仙洪高速仙桃南服务区临时设立口罩转运场所，每天的交易额可以达到2亿元。
In an interview, the reporter learned that to speed up the production and supply of face masks, local temporary masks were set up in the Xianghong Speedway South Service Area, generating a daily turnover of 200 million yuan.
“按照防疫规定，外地的大卡车现在不能进仙桃市区，口罩生产厂家先将货运到转运中心，外地的车辆再装车外运，现在主要是优先保障湖北省内防疫和复工储备需求，也有一些会销往外地。
"According to the epidemic prevention regulations, large trucks from other places can no longer enter the Xiantao area. The manufacturers of masks first deliver the goods to the transit centers and the vehicles from other places are shipped out.
”上述仙桃口罩生产企业负责人表示。
The head of the company that makes the peach mask said.
（编辑：石英婧 校对：颜京宁）推荐阅读点击大图|1晚获73万元打赏，1夜120万人“云蹦迪”，虚拟线上娱乐，真能“蹦”起来？点击大图|武汉病毒所回应“零号病人黄燕玲”。
(Edited by quartz) Jing Jing, proofread by Jing Jing, received a reward of $730,000 last night, while 1.2 million received a reward for virtual online entertainment.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
跨省追捕、5天宣判 多地公检法稳准狠打击“口罩诈骗案”。
Cross-provincial pursuit, five days of sentencing many public prosecution law firmly crack down on "mask fraud".
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "跨省追捕、5天宣判 多地公检法稳准狠打击“口罩诈骗案”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '​1晚获73万元打赏，1夜120万人“云蹦迪”，虚拟线上娱乐，真能“蹦”起来？',。
A reward of $730,000 for 1 night, and a 1.2 million for a night of virtual entertainment? & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉病毒所回应“零号病人黄燕玲”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
