系列报道 | 救援发生在人民和人民之间。
The rescue took place between the people and the people.
记录改变中的全球文化图景。
Record the changing global cultural landscape.
这是系列报道的最后一篇。
This is the last in a series.
从 2 月 4 日至今，在为期两周的时间内，我们尽力了。
From February 4 to the present, over a period of two weeks, we have done our best.
这种「尽力」自有一种局限性：无论是体量、时效，抑或视野，甚至报道体例，都不足以为我们的力不从心开脱。
This "best endeavour" has its limits: neither volume, nor timeliness, nor vision, nor even style of reporting are sufficient to justify our incompetence.
但我们又持有一丝欣慰：这种带有《T》中文版烙印的切入角度是有意义的。
But we also have a bit of comfort: this cut-in angle with the Chinese version of "T" is meaningful.
至于这种意义是什么，只有两个字，记录。
As to what that means, there are only two words, records.
记录就是意义，记录就是职责，记录就是我们的正义。
Records are meaning, records are duties, records are our justice.
如果这 12 篇报道能在任何一个层面让你感受到一点人间的真情，那我们便不枉此行。
If these 12 articles can make you feel a little bit of human truth at any level, then we are worthy to come here.
是的，正如庚子鼠年到来时我们在微博所言，「如果说世上还有什么东西值得永远想望而且有时还能得到，那就是人间的真情」—— 愿各位都有能力去体会和散播这样的真情。
Yes, as we said in a microblog post on the arrival of the Year of the Rat, "If there is anything in the world worth looking forward to forever and sometimes getting it, it is the true feelings of mankind" - I hope you have the ability to experience and spread this truth.
2 月 4 日，武汉市开始建设方舱医院，收治「新冠肺炎」轻症患者。
February 4, Wuhan began to build a cabin hospital to treat patients with "New Crown Pneumonia" light illness.
两天之后，白岩松就此对话呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰院士时，王辰表示：（方舱医院里）要多一些人文关怀，多一些病友之间的互助，共克时艰。
Two days later, when Bai Yansong was breathing in this dialogue with a critically ill medical expert, Wang Chen said: "There should be more humane care, more mutual help between the sick friends to overcome the difficulties.
病人互助、普通人互助，远隔万里的人、前往疫区中心援助的人 …… 在面对这场疫情时，官方渠道之外，民众也是可信赖的力量。
Patient mutual assistance, common people to help each other, thousands of miles away, to the center of the epidemic to help people... in the face of the epidemic, the people outside official channels, the people is also a reliable force.
救援发生在人民和人民之间。
Relief takes place between people and people.
疫情最重的武汉市，有「武心援」「武老白」「文泽尔」和「cnov2020」这样的志愿者团队，他们制作患者援助手册，本地互助。
In Wuhan, the worst affected city, there are volunteer teams such as "Wu Laobai," "Wenzel" and "cnov 2020." They produce a patient assistance manual and help each other locally.
网络上，同样有来自全国各地的志愿者，帮助遭受厄运的人们。
On the Internet, there are also volunteers from all over the country to help people who have suffered bad luck.
在新浪微博的患者求助话题中，@糖呗张丁文 的名字经常被提起。
In the patient help topic of Sina Weibo, the name of Zhang Dingwen @ Sugar is often mentioned.
有时他的名字和「人民日报」「央视新闻」等媒体一起出现，有时和自己的志愿者队友 @老陶在路上 并列。
Sometimes his name appeared alongside the "People's Daily" "CCTV News" and sometimes his volunteer teammate @ Lao Tao juxtaposed on the road.
他是能够带来希望的人之一。
He is one of those who can bring hope.
也有人不明白为什么他总能帮患者找到医院的床位，张丁文说：其实做这些很简单，任何人想做都能做，就看他 / 她有没有这种心。
Some people don't understand why he can always help patients find hospital beds. Zhang Dingwen said: It's really easy to do anything anyone wants to do, depending on whether he or she has such a mind.
这是一篇自述。
This is a self-report.
微博志愿者 @糖呗张丁文 讲述了他和同伴在这场疫情的力所能及。
Weibo volunteer @ sugar Zhang Dingwen told him and his companions in the epidemic within the limits of their ability.
现在我每天在微博上会收到一两万个 @。
Now I get 10,000 @ s a day on Weibo.
昨天晚上 12 点钟（编注：这里的「昨天」实际是指 2 月 13 日）开始，一条（新冠）肺炎患者求助超话爆了，网民疯狂地 @ 我 ，从 1000 涨到 2000 …… 我点进去一看，一家八口人全倒了，还剩一个 11 个月大的小孩（记者注：微博用户 @圣胡子GG 发布求助信息，为 11 个月大的女婴刘若曦寻求救助）。
Last night, at 12 o'clock, a sufferer with pneumonia went overboard and the netizen went from 1,000 to 2,000... I called in to see that the family of eight had collapsed, leaving an 11-month-old girl, Liu Ruoxi, seeking help from her 11-month-old daughter.
晚上 3 点 50 几分我给求助者回了消息，加了微信。
I called the caller back a few minutes after 3: 50 p. m., and added a line.
我们连夜协调，今天早上给她解决了，在湖北省妇幼保健医院协调了一个小房间，小孩住进去了。
We coordinated overnight and this morning settled it for her. A small room was coordinated at Hubei Maternal and Child Health Hospital and the child moved in.
这件事是 3 个志愿者合作，大家下半夜都在忙。
This thing 3 volunteers cooperate, everybody is busy at midnight.
太多人反而事情就乱了。
Too many people have gone haywire.
其实做这些（帮助病人找床位）很简单，任何人想做都能做，就看他/ 她有没有这种心。
It's easy to do this (to help a patient find a bed) and anyone who wants to can do it depends on whether he or she has it or not.
我们这个志愿者团队叫「NCP 志愿者之家」。
Our volunteer team is called the NCP Volunteer Home.
成立时间不长，也不是正规公益组织。
It has not been established for a long time and is not a formal public interest organization.
只是这次 NPC 冠状肺炎，我把大家聚集到了一起。
It's just this time with the NPC coronal pneumonia, and I brought you all together.
开始志愿者在一个叫「天佑武汉其中有我」的微博群里，我们曾经都不认识。
Began volunteers in a group called "God Save Wuhan which has me" in the micro-blog group, we did not know.
后来 100 多号人的时候我们意识到要取一个名字，卫健委发布了病毒名称「NCP」，我们就拿过来了。
Later, when we were over 100 people and we realized we needed a name, the health committee released the name of the virus, "NCP," and we got it.
现在团队有 1200 多号人。
There are more than 1,200 people on the team.
我是创业者，开互联网公司的，做视频社交、做直播。
I am an entrepreneur, open an Internet company, do video social networking, do live.
疫情刚开始，我没有这么多想法，1 月底就是捐款、捐口罩。
At the beginning of the epidemic, I did not have so many ideas, January is a donation, donating masks.
朋友们希望做一些事情，（我们）就弄了一个「武汉守护医者爱心组织」。
Friends hope to do something, [we] have a "Wuhan Guardian Medical Care Organization."
我们都是小创业者，能力没有那么大，没有跟别人一样弄几百万。
We're all small entrepreneurs, we're not that powerful, we're not making millions like everyone else.
五六个人弄十几万需要凑一凑。
Five or six people need to scrape together a hundred thousand.
之前是采购物资寄过去。
It was purchased and mailed before.
找物资很难很难，开始尽量选择湖北省境内，买不到了，（就）全国找。
It is very difficult to find supplies, began to try to select the territory of Hubei Province, can not buy, (on) the whole country.
后来联络韩国，联络印尼、泰国，最后从美国还有法国找货，弄回国内。
Later contact South Korea, contact Indonesia, Thailand, and finally from the United States and France to find goods back home.
看微信群里的信息，选择一家患者比较多的医院送过去。
Read the message in the group, choose a hospital with more patients to send to.
送过武汉市第六医院、武汉协和医院肿瘤中心 ……我是 1 月 25 号左右意识到问题比较严重。
I was sent to Wuhan Sixth Hospital, Wuhan Concorde Hospital Oncology Center... I was aware of the seriousness of the problem around January 25.
那时好像还在说可能不会人传人（编注：实际上 1 月 20 日钟南山院士确认了「存在人传人的情况」）？我在（微信）群看见有人发武汉的医院里面堆满了人，感觉好像跟新闻有区别，就去找我武汉的朋友了解。
It seemed as if there might be no human-to-human transaction.Actually, on January 20th, academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the existence of human-to-human transactionI saw the hospital in Wuhan full of people, feeling different from the news, I went to see my friends in Wuhan.
他们告诉我很严重，听说很多人在就诊期间排队，站着站着人就倒地上了，弄得很恐慌。
They told me how serious it was. They heard a lot of people lined up during the clinic and stood and fell to the ground in panic.
后来看新闻说物资不能第一时间到医护人员手里，我去武汉送过一次。
Later read the news said that supplies can not be the first time into the hands of medical personnel, I sent to Wuhan once.
（那时）武汉封城没有像现在这么严，SUV 开过去，运了几箱。
Wuhan was not as tightly sealed as it is now. SUV drove past, carrying several boxes.
那会儿城市里还比较正常，没有像现在一样禁行，行人不上街。
At that time, the city was still relatively normal, there is no such thing as the current ban, pedestrians do not go out.
只是进入医院会感受到正在打仗的急迫感。
Just getting into the hospital feels the urgency of the battle.
医院对满人的场面我没看到，那天晚上凌晨 3 点多钟到医院，把货卸下来放到后门，事先沟通好的医生把东西给领了，我们就走了。
I didn't see the whole thing. I went to the hospital at more than 3: 00 in the morning, unloaded the goods and put them in the back door.
我们对病毒的传染（能）力到底有多强也是不知道的。
How strong we are about the transmission of the virus is also unknown.
至少不像今天所了解到的，通风系统、粪口都能够传染。
At least not as we know today, ventilation systems and manure can be contagious.
我早就知道肺炎患者求助超话，但一直没看。
I had known for a long time that pneumonia sufferers needed superego, but I never saw it.
那时我特别忙，弄物资、公司的事务也比较多。
At that time, I was very busy, materials, the company's business is also more.
朋友一直跟我讲，超话（太惨）看不下去了。
My friend keeps telling me that superego isn't going to work.
最开始求助超话每一篇都是长篇大论，我就冷着没看。
At the beginning, every article was a long one, and I was so cold that I didn't read it.
其实就是把自己当成局外人，捐钱捐口罩，我做了就行了。
In fact, I think of myself as an outsider, donating money to donate masks, I do it.
有一天朋友又讲这个事情，2 月 2 号晚上大概 10 点，我把它（超话）打开了，没看两三条就崩溃了。
One day my friend told me about it, and on the evening of February 2nd, at about 10 o'clock, I opened it and collapsed without looking at two or three.
我记得很清楚，当时看到一条，一家六口人死了三个，还剩三个危重症，在寻求床位，也就只有一个人懂得发微博求助。
I remember quite well when I saw one where three out of six members of my family were dead and three were still in critical condition, seeking a bed, and only one knew how to tweet for help.
还看到一个人早上去世，晚上也没人来处理。
Also saw a person died in the morning, no one to deal with the night.
很惨很惨。
It was a terrible tragedy.
人死了，后事都没有办法办。
When a man dies, nothing can be done about it.
我自己也是 30 岁，很多发帖人跟我年龄一般大，他 / 她们的母亲也就是 50 出头，你都不敢想象这个事情。
I myself am thirty years old, and many of my placemen are as old as I am, and their mother is in her early fifties, and you dare not imagine it.
我还特意去看了一个人（去年）十一二月的微博，一家人特别幸福，拍合影、赞美食、遛狗，特别正常的小康之家。
I also specially to see a person (last year) in November and February Weibo, the family is particularly happy, take pictures, praise food, walk the dog, particularly normal well-off home.
到 1 月底生活完全崩溃，一个家已经不是一个家了，基本上都去世了。
By the end of January, life had completely collapsed, and a home was no longer a home. It was almost dead.
10 天、20 天的时间，天翻地覆的变化。
Ten days, 20 days, a sea change.
非典时期我的母亲也生病了，咳嗽、低烧。
My mother was also ill during SARS, coughing and low fever.
那时我们家就我妈和我两个人。
Then my mother and I were alone.
当时我 12 岁，记得不是很清楚，但是听说只要患病（发热），会被统一收到医院去。
I was 12 years old, I don't remember quite well, but I was told that whenever I got sick (got a fever), I would be sent to the hospital.
我是江西鹰潭人，我们是四五线小城市，没有那么好的隔离环境。
I am Jiangxi Yingtan people, we are four or five line small city, not so good isolation environment.
她如果被隔离起来，就没有人带我了。
If she were isolated, no one would take me.
所以（我妈）想自己隔离一段时间，看能不能康复。
So [my mother] wants to isolate herself for a while and see if she can recover.
一个寺庙收留了她，我跟她一起在庙里隔离很长一段时间。
A temple took her in, and I spent a long time in isolation with her in the temple.
僧人都特别好，送饭菜之类的。
Monks are very good. Food and things like that.
现在我母亲身体特别好，我觉得当时肯定不是患了非典。
Now my mother is in excellent health and I don't think she was suffering from SARS.
看超话的一刹那我想做得更精准一点 —— 不是说捐钱捐物资，傻傻地捐。
I wanted to be more precise the moment I saw the hypocrisy - not to donate money or goods, but to give foolishly.
我能不能为实实在在的生命再做什么？当晚（2 月 3 号 12 点）我就把自己的感受在微博写下来了（记者注：这条微博的内容是，「接下来会调动一切人脉 …… 精准的帮到更多的人！我会投入到这个超话中，你们的贴我会看，如果我没看到可以 @我，我看到后会立即马上回复。
What else can I do for a real life? That night (Feb. 3, 12: 00) I wrote down my feelings on Weibo... "The next thing I'm going to do is to help more people... with precision... and I'll read the hypertext, and if I don't see it, I'll respond immediately.
我不怕被封号！有需要帮助的尽管提！」）。
I'm not afraid to be labeled! Just mention those who need help!).
我曾经很少发微博，一两个月一条。
I used to tweet very infrequently, once or twice a month.
那条感受发出来，一下被很多人关注，我看到很多回复转发，就更坚定这件事情要去做。
That feeling sent out, a lot of attention, I saw a lot of replies forwarded, more determined to do this thing.
这次疫情，我对小孩没人管非常非常重视。
This epidemic, I take the children very seriously.
他们的处境跟我小时候有点类似。
They're in a similar situation to me when I was a kid.
我当年很小，没有任何能力做什么。
I was too young to do anything.
虽然这次也没有（能力）做得了什么，但是我在想，能做一点就做一点。
There was nothing I could do this time, but I was thinking of doing just a little bit.
最开始的志愿者有十几人，在一个叫「天佑武汉其中有我」的微博群里：有一起捐口罩的朋友，剩下主要是公司的伙伴、员工。
The first group of more than a dozen volunteers, in a microblog called "God Save Wuhan, which has me": a friend donated masks, the rest are mainly the company's partners, employees.
我直接把人拉过来，大家就开始干了。
I pulled the man over, and everybody started.
创业公司，平时我们每天十三四个小时都在一起，默契是超级高的。
Start-up company, usually we are together 13 or 4 hours a day, tacit understanding is super high.
那时患者也不知道你是干嘛的，我们也不知道能做什么。
The patient didn't know what you were doing, and we didn't know what to do.
我们根本就不是专业的，没有干过这个事情，打电话过去说我来帮你的，（对方问）「你怎么帮我」？我也不知道。
We weren't professional at all, we didn't do this, and we called and said I was here to help you, "How do you help me?" I don't know.
也有打电话过去那边情绪很崩溃的，也不知道怎么安慰，只能说「加油、加油，有什么事情我们能不能帮你做」？买氧气瓶、送口罩、帮独居老人送菜我们都干过，靠当地的志愿者。
There were also calls where the mood was crashing and I didn't know how to say, "Come on, come on, what can we do for you?" Buy oxygen cylinders, send masks, help the elderly living alone We've all done it with local volunteers.
有人是从网络上加入的，还有我的四五个武汉朋友，我把他们给串（在了）一块儿。
Some people from the network to join, and my four or five Wuhan friends, I gave them string together.
两三天左右，「重症收录组」成立了。
In two or three days, ICU was set up.
那时我们只做这一个工作，志愿者有七八十个，都是年轻人，一大半人干这个，剩下的属于热心网友。
At that time, we only did this job, 78 volunteers, are young people, more than half of the people do this, the rest belong to enthusiastic netizens.
（后来）求助超话越来越多看不过来了，我们就呼吁大家把信息精简，讲清楚发病过程、家庭处境，还有地址电话。
With more and more calls for help, we appeal to you to streamline your information, explain the course of your illness, your family situation, and your address number.
后来出了「对接社区」的政策，我们跟武汉全市的社区都建立了联系，用病患家属的身份去沟通。
Later, out of the "docking community" policy, we have established contact with the whole city of Wuhan, with the identity of the patient's family to communicate.
刚开始我觉得事情特别的坏（编注：此处应为「糟糕」），社区的工作我很不能理解。
At first I thought things were particularly bad ("bad" here) and the work of the community was beyond my comprehension.
为什么那么拖拉？后来我慢慢地理解了：有一个很严重、很实在的问题—— 病人太多了，床位太少了。
Later I came to understand that there was a very serious, real problem - too many patients, too few beds.
我遇到好几次社区早上接电话跟下午接电话不是同一个人（的情况），原因是工作人员感染了。
I've met several times when the community answered the phone in the morning and not the same person in the afternoon because the staff got infected.
（经历了）这样的事情之后，我开始理解他们。
After such things, I began to understand them.
首先他们没有遇到过这样的事情，他们根本就不是专业的人。
First of all, they have never encountered such a thing, they are not professional people at all.
你可以把他们理解成「居委会大妈」，年纪也是 40 多岁，女性居多。
You can think of them as "neighborhood committee moms," who are also in their 40s, mostly women.
他们的思维没那么时髦，不可能了解微博之类的（平台）。
Their minds are not so trendy that they can't understand something like microblogging.
但他们却要承受很大的舆论压力。
But they are under a lot of pressure.
微博上的人情绪很激烈，在患者信息下留言，导致患者的情绪爆发，很暴躁，最终演变成「所有的错都是社区人员的错」。
People on microblogs can be emotionally intense, leaving messages on patients' messages that can lead to emotional outbursts, irritability and, ultimately, "all the mistakes are the fault of the community."
有些家属一打过去就很暴躁，社区的工作人员也很暴躁，两个人沟通不了。
Some family members are grumpy after a fight, and community workers are grumpy and unable to communicate with each other.
我们慢慢找到了沟通的技巧和沟通的意识。
We are slowly finding the skills to communicate and the awareness to communicate.
现在一通电话尽可能保证在 2 分钟之内，引起社区人员的重视。
Now a phone call as far as possible within two minutes to attract the attention of community members.
确保不耽误他们的工作，也不引发他们情绪上的不满。
Make sure that their work is not delayed and that they do not become emotionally dissatisfied.
比如，你打过去，第一时间要沟通清楚你是谁、来干嘛，病人的发病过程、CT 结论和核酸检测结果，是否确诊。
For example, if you call back, you should first communicate who you are, what you are doing, how the patient develops, CT findings, and nucleic acid test results, and whether you are diagnosed.
着重阐述病人状态，家庭情况。
Focus on patient status, family situation.
（比如根据实际情况说明）如果不能及时救助，这个人可能要身亡了。
If he doesn't get help in time, for example, he may die.
现在我们还能告诉社区哪家医院空出了床位。
Now we can tell the community which hospital is open.
他们上一分钟得到的信息可能是金银潭医院满床，我们可以告诉他/ 她金银潭有床位了，几张。
The information they got last minute was that the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was full of beds. We could tell him / her that there were beds in the gold and silver pool.
可以的话赶紧开单子。
Make an order if you can.
现在我们不单帮病人找床位，还做心理援助，搜集全网信息提供给人民日报、高级机关。
Now we not only help patients find beds, but also do psychological assistance, the collection of network-wide information to the People's Daily, high-level organs.
志愿者分为 4 个小组，分别负责重症收录、民调意见、心理咨询、物资捐赠。
The volunteers were divided into four groups, responsible for intensive care, opinion polls, psychological counseling, and material donations.
每个小组有一个小组长。
Each group has a team leader.
名义上是小组长，实际上是冲在最前面给大家一个方向。
Nominal is the group leader, is actually in the front to give everyone a direction.
你不能把公司的制度，比如 KPI 考核机制用到这里来，参与进来的人都是志愿性质。
You can't use the company's systems, like the KPI, here. The people involved are volunteers.
患者发出求助信息，会被抓取，做实时监控。
The patient sends out help message, can be grabbed, do real-time monitoring.
因为我做互联网公司，大数据监控这块比较精通，刚好用在资料录入上。
Because I do the Internet company, big data monitoring this is more proficient, just used in the data entry.
我们帮助的重中之重包括：重症、危重症病人，军属家庭，独居老人，没有监护人的未成年人，没有行动能力的群体。
Our top priorities include: the seriously ill, the critically ill, the military family, the elderly living alone, minors without guardians, and the incapacitated.
到现在为止，我们能做的是让空出来的床位更快运转，让入院效率提高一点。
So far, what we have been able to do is to make the available beds run faster and to make admission more efficient.
我的重心还在重症收录这块儿，主要负责帮人协调床位，让社区和医院对接，与志愿者做交流。
My center of gravity is still in this section, mainly responsible for helping people coordinate beds, so that the community and the hospital docking, and do exchanges with volunteers.
心理援助这块儿是一个上海的心理（咨询援助行业）创业者，看到我们做的事情，加入了。
Psychological Assistance is a Shanghai psychology (consulting aid industry) entrepreneur who sees what we do and joins in.
他们的机构里有 30 多号心理医生，（然后）朋友拉朋友，现在有 80 多号心理医生，能够疏导求助者的情绪。
Their organization has more than 30 psychologists, (then) friends pull friends, there are now more than 80 psychologists, able to channel the feelings of clients.
民调意见组是（微博用户）@老陶在路上 负责。
The Poll Advisory Group is in charge of (Weibo users) @ Lao Tao on the road.
组里的志愿者收录信息，内部筛选，紧急且必要的统一反馈 —— 不是什么问题都反馈，那样只会造成信息通道的堵塞。
The volunteers in the group collected information, screened internally, and received urgent and necessary unified feedback - not all questions were answered, which only blocked the access to information.
一般特别紧急的情况反馈上去的，大概率会得以解决。
General especially urgent situation feedback up, the high probability will be solved.
我和@老陶在路上 不认识，有很多患者会 @我，也 @他，然后注意到彼此。
I don't know @ Lao Tao on the way, there are a lot of patients @ me, also @ him, and then notice each other.
他是央广评论员，可以帮大家说话。
He is a critic of CCTV and can speak for us.
就跟白岩松是一样的。
It's the same as Bai Yansong.
对吧？其实我对他的工作了解不多。
Right? Actually I don't know much about his job.
今天中午（2 月 14 日）我在帮那个 11 个月的小女孩解决护工问题，花了一点时间。
This afternoon (Feb. 14) I spent a little time helping the 11-month-old girl solve her care problem.
后来是我们武汉当地两个志愿者自发去医院看护这个宝宝的。
Later, two of our Wuhan volunteers went to the hospital to take care of the baby.
我们把防护服、口罩、护目镜、面罩都准备好了。
We have the suit, mask, goggles, and mask ready.
目前我们的志愿者组织累计回复求助数量是，间接协助了 862 人。
At present, our volunteer organizations have indirectly assisted 862 people by responding to a cumulative number of calls.
今天有 38 人得到救助。
Thirty-eight people were rescued today.
让我特别心碎的是小孩没有人管的情况，而且小孩见证了双亲或者某一个（至亲）离去。
What broke my heart was the fact that the child was left alone, and that the child witnessed the departure of one or both parents.
特别特别的让人难受。
It's especially uncomfortable.
有一个 77 岁的外公刘立给外孙女求助。
A 77-year-old grandfather, Liu Li, asked for help from her granddaughter.
事情是 2 月 5 号发出来的，2 月 6 号开始发酵（微博用户 @老苏8811 于 2 月 5 日 2:31 发微博求救）。
It started on February 5 and fermented on February 6 (Weibo users @ Lao Su 8811 on February 5 at 2: 31 PM for help).
那个家庭孩子爸爸失踪了，妈妈病死在家，外公外婆 70 来岁，都感染了。
The family, the father of the child disappeared, mother died of illness at home, maternal grandmother 70 years old, all infected.
就剩一个 13 岁的小姑娘。
Just a 13-year-old girl.
刘立的亲人帮他发的微博。
Liu Li's relatives help him send micro-blog.
那时是我们开始做这件事的第 3 天，还在摸索。
It was the third day since we began to do this, and we were still groping.
当时想了各种办法，跟社区、人民日报去反馈，加上他们的帖子在微博上关注度特别高，2 月 7 号，一家 3 个人都得到了救治。
At that time, thought of various ways, with the community, people's daily to feedback, and their posts in micro-blog attention is particularly high, February 7, three people were treated.
这十几天（下来），我感觉到了情况的变化。
I felt the change in the situation during the last ten days.
疫情和患者的变化过程是从最开始的松懈，到人民很疯狂 —— 抢药、抢口罩、抢着看病，到现在开始恢复城市的秩序。
The epidemic and the process of patient change range from the initial laxity to the madness of the people - the rush for medicine, the looting of masks, the rush to see a doctor, the beginning of the restoration of order in the city.
现在很多的问题都在解决，（比如）社区孤寡老人的问题，也在大力解决。
Many problems are being solved, such as the problem of widowed elderly people in the community.
官方的效率也变得很高。
Official efficiency has also become high.
最开始很多没有确诊的人没有办法报社区。
At first many undiagnosed people were unable to report to the community.
眼看着他 / 她不抢救马上就得死，（但）只要没有确诊的那张纸你就帮不了（编注：此处应为「得不到救治」）。
Watch him / her die soon before he / she is rescued, (but) you cannot help as long as there is no confirmed piece of paper.
没确诊的患者，（我们）只能帮助他 / 她进入确诊流程。
In the case of an undiagnosed patient, the diagnosis process can only be facilitated.
刚开始我们送过试剂盒 —— 最开始的时候，核酸检测盒是可以从医院里拿出来的，当病人没办法前往医院（时），可以送到他 / 她手里。
At first we sent the kit - in the beginning, the nucleic acid test kit could be removed from the hospital and sent to the patient when he / she could not get to the hospital.
后来就提供核酸检测地址的信息。
Information on nucleic acid detection addresses was subsequently provided.
最近我们不再收到谁没有检测上的信息。
We no longer receive information from anyone who has not been tested.
但有人两个肺都白了，核酸测不出来，（测试结果呈）阴性就无法确诊，没办法入院，酿成了很多惨状。
But some people are both white lung, nucleic acid can not be measured, (test results) can not be diagnosed, no access to hospital, resulting in a lot of misery.
我们就提意见，把CT 的检测纳入（判断标准），临床也要做诊断。
We would suggest that CT testing be included (in the judgment criteria) and that clinical diagnosis should be made.
意见的反馈主要是通过老陶那个组。
The feedback was mainly through the Lao Tao group.
现在 CT 检查也被纳入了。
Now CT examination is also included.
医院的情况也改善了很多。
The situation in hospitals has also improved considerably.
刚开始可能只有发热科一个科室（处理疫情）。
At first, there may be only one office in the fever department (dealing with outbreaks).
那会儿医院也蒙圈了，没想到有这么多（病）人。
At that time, the hospital was also covered. I didn't expect so many people.
后来出了「应收尽收」的政策，很多医院把其他科室拿出来改造成床位了，会好很多。
Later issued a "receivable" policy, many hospitals will take out other departments to transform into beds, will be much better.
现在医生也多了，床位也开始增加，你看现在全国调过去（武汉）1 万多的医疗人员。
Now that there are more doctors and more beds are opening up, you can see that more than 10,000 medical personnel are being transferred across the country.
到现在，我们是没有办法跟医院对接的。
So far, we have no way of docking with the hospital.
医护人员本来也没有时间，防护服穿身上，基本 10 个小时都脱不下来。
Medical staff also did not have time, protective clothing on the body, basic 10 hours can not take off.
这方面的信息通过官方渠道发布的床位信息，实时更新，（而且）我们也有医院里的志愿者，志愿者会告诉我们，哪些医院空出什么（编著：此处应为「多少」）床位。
This information is updated in real time with information on beds available through official channels (and) we also have volunteers in hospitals who tell us which hospitals have beds available.
这些志愿者包括医护人员、患者。
These volunteers included medical staff and patients.
我们的患者群，确诊的、疑似的病人都有，现在还有方舱（医院）的（患者）。
Our patient population, diagnosed, suspected patients all have, and now there are the square cabins (hospitals).
患者也能提供帮助，他们有病友，大家交流，可以知道医院的情况是什么。
Patients can also help. They have sick people, they talk to each other, and they know what the hospital is like.
现在这个群有将近 300 号人，我们和其中很多人成了朋友。
Now there are nearly 300 people in this group, and we have become friends with many of them.
从有病人住进方舱（医院），我们起初了解到有些方舱（医院）是用特别老的员工宿舍改造的，地面的灰尘多、洗漱的水都没有、厕所脏。
From the time patients were admitted to the cabin (the hospital), we learned at first that some of the cabins (hospitals) had been converted from particularly old staff quarters, with a lot of dust on the ground, no water for toiletries and dirty toilets.
这些信息我们都反馈过。
We have all been fed back.
今天下午我们收到患者发的照片，方舱（医院）的床是实木的，被子看着也很软，吃的饭都是三菜一汤。
We received pictures from the patient this afternoon. The bed in the cabin (hospital) was solid wood, the quilt looked soft, and the food was three dishes and one soup.
感觉有很大的改变，也可能是不同医疗点的。
There's been a big change in feeling, maybe different medical points.
（我觉得）刚开始大家应该干的是把房子征集起来往里面铺床的事，打扫卫生这些（细节）确实那会儿也没有人手做。
What we should have done at first was to collect the house and make a bed in it. The cleaning was really not done at that time either.
先要有个框架再往里填东西。
First you need a frame and then you need to fill in.
刚开始传到网上的（负面）视频和帖子，基本上是（因为只有）框架搭起来，里面还是没有血肉的。
The (negative) videos and posts that are just beginning to be posted online are basically (because only) framed, and there is no flesh and blood in them.
现在不断地输入血肉，让这个东西看起来很饱满。
Now keep putting in flesh and blood to make it look full.
我现在一个人住在北京的家里。
I now live alone in my home in Beijing.
公司办公地点在北京，这是我上班时候的住所。
The office of the company is in Beijing. This is my residence when I go to work.
我妈他们在老家，每两天能出一趟门。
My mother They go out every two days in their hometown.
别人不知道我在做这件事情。
No one else knew that I was doing it.
我每天晚上 2 点多睡，早晨 5 点多钟就醒了。
I get more sleep at 2: 00 every night and wake up after 5: 00 in the morning.
不可能睡得着，想赶紧看一下有没有人被救了。
It's impossible to sleep, to see if anyone has been saved.
每一个患者的治疗情况我都很了解，只要在群里一报名字我就知道这人是谁，什么样的情况。
I know every patient's treatment, and I know who he is and what kind of person he is by simply naming him in the group.
我这个人做事情一直都是这样，包括开公司，能够亲力亲为就亲力亲为一点，毕竟事情是你串起来的，得有责任感，对不对？今年过年我一直没休息，也没有处理公司的事情。
I always do things this way, including setting up a company, being able to do things in person, after all, it's up to you to have a sense of responsibility, right? I haven't had a rest this New Year, and I haven't dealt with the company.
我们公司东西全部研发完了，在苹果商城等审核，这段时间基本也没什么事情。
Our company has all the research and development, in the Apple Mall and other audit, this period of time is basically nothing.
睡眠少没有解决办法。
There is no way to sleep less.
我现在应该是超负荷的。
I'm supposed to be overloaded now.
硬扛。
Hard shoulder.
人家说疫情结束后你想去干嘛，我说我就想睡几天，人家说你现在天天休息，还想睡几天。
They say you want to go after the epidemic, I said I want to sleep for a few days, people say you now rest every day, also want to sleep a few days.
普通网民如果希望为疫区提供直接的帮助，也可以加入我们。
Ordinary netizens can also join us if they wish to provide direct help to the affected areas.
各小组的组长我在微博上发过一次，有很多人加入了。
The team leader I posted on Weibo once, and a lot of people joined.
报名之后，会聊一些简单问题，看你是不是有时间、抗压能力怎么样。
After signing up, we'll talk about some simple questions to see if you have the time and the ability to resist stress.
我们有好几个志愿者都很出色，有生物学博士，有做表格、PPT 很强的小伙伴。
Several of our volunteers were excellent, with PhDs in biology, small partners with strong spreadsheets and PPT.
还有人家里是医药世家，可以给患者提供用药的建议。
Still others are home to a family of doctors who can advise patients on the use of drugs.
但每天都有志愿者崩溃：怎么这么惨？昨天我安排了心理医生给志愿者做疏导。
But every day there is a collapse of volunteers: how so sad? Yesterday I arranged for a psychiatrist to do volunteer counseling.
我其实也没有那么有力量，现在都是处于（硬撑）。
I'm not really that strong either. I'm in the middle of it now.
之所以要表现得积极，第一有可能患者看着我，我崩溃了他们就没信心了；第二志愿者加入的时候，没想到战况会这么惨烈。
To be positive, the first possibility is that the patient is looking at me and I break down and they lose confidence. When the second volunteer joins, I didn't expect the war to be that bad.
收录组的人每天这么多信息看下来，他们的内心（感受）我觉得不会比医生差到哪里去。
With so much information coming down their throats every day, I don't think they're going anywhere worse than the doctors.
我现在对数字麻木了。
I'm numb to numbers now.
最开始觉得（确诊病例）增加 100 人（是件）不得了（的事），现在我都不看了。
At first I thought it would be a shame to add 100 people, but now I'm done with it.
肯定患者的经历（对我）冲击大。
It was a great shock to be sure of the patient's experience.
我抗压能力比普通人强很多，我在北京当过两年兵，今年创业快十个年头了，遇过人生百态，有过大起大落。
I have been a soldier in Beijing for two years, and I have been a startup for nearly ten years now. I have had many ups and downs in my life.
我的心态还是比较正的，能够自我调节。
My mentality is still more positive, able to self-regulation.
但看太多了还是会心态崩掉，我没有找过心理医生，都是自己调节。
But to see too much or the mentality will collapse, I did not find a psychiatrist, are their own regulation.
我发过一个微博，说自己看到的日记。
I posted a tweet about the diary I saw.
那是我大清早在微信群里看到的长截图。
That's the long screenshot I saw in the micro-mail crowd early in the morning.
一个武汉女生的真实日记。
A real diary of a Wuhan schoolgirl.
记录了家庭每天的变化，从美好，到爸爸死了，然后妈妈死了，然后自己生病，不知道自己能不能活下来。
It records the daily changes in the family, from the good to the dead dad, and then the mother dies, then she gets sick and doesn't know if she can survive.
如果她要死了这个家（所有人）就都没了。
If she dies the whole family is gone.
我看完之后心里特别特别的难受，这段时间我也想了解这个女孩怎么样了，但现在找不到（她）。
I felt especially miserable after I read it. I wanted to know how the girl was doing, but I couldn't find her now.
新闻里那些得了白血病求死的女孩、在阳台上敲锣求助的人，包括红十字会、李文亮医生…… 这些都曾经牵动过我的心。
The girls on the news who are dying of leukaemia, those who are on the balcony to ask for help, including the Red Cross, Dr. Lee Wenliang... have all touched my heart.
我还看到消息有老人跳楼的、母亲因为胆囊炎发作要开煤气自杀的。
I also saw news of old people jumping out of buildings, mother because of cholecystitis to open gas suicide.
这些比较典型的人生悲剧我们都知道，都很担心。
We all know and worry about these more typical tragedies of life.
其实不是所有事都能解决，解决不了你内心就很受煎熬。
In fact, not all things can be solved, you can not solve the heart of the very suffering.
我每天在微博上说得最多的一句话是「交给我」。
One of the things I say daily on Weibo is "Give it to me."
其实还有一句话是「对不起」。
In fact, the other sentence is "I'm sorry."
我微信里有超级多的「对不起」。
I have a lot more "sorry" in my micro-letters.
早上还在（和求助对象）沟通，下午就告诉我，他奶奶走了，他妈妈走了，我就回复「对不起」。
I was still in the morning (talking to my client) and told me in the afternoon that his grandmother was gone and his mother was gone and I would reply "I'm sorry."
这些「对不起」在我的私人消息里。
These "sorry" are in my personal message.
大家能够看得见的就是「交给我」。
All you can see is "Give it to me."
只有我自己知道我在经历什么。
Only I know what I'm going through.
策划：《T》中文版编辑部撰文：徐沉沉开篇撰文：李森设计：子慜 编排：Lu Wang。
Writing: Lyson Design: Zi Chao Choreography: Lu Wang, Lu Wang.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
系列报道 | 救援发生在人民和人民之间。
The rescue took place between the people and the people.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "系列报道 | 救援发生在人民和人民之间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "官方渠道之外，民众也是可信赖的力量。
var msg _ desc = & quot; outside official channels, the public is also a trusted force.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '生有襁褓，死有寿衣，纺织艺术是我们剪不断的表达方式',。
Swaddled and dead with a shroud, textile art was our constant expression and description.
title: '我们可以为有幸拜读非裔男性作家的作品而欢呼，但同时也必须保持警觉，关注谁在弄潮，谁又被落在了身后',。
We can applaud for having had the privilege of reading the work of a male African writer, but must also be vigilant about who's getting wet and who's been left behind and behind.
