新冠疫情最终结局是什么，会成为全球大流行吗？多位权威专家：病毒可能与人类长期共存。
What is the final outcome of the New Crown Epidemic, a global pandemic? Many pundits: the virus may coexist with humans for a long time.
孙滔。
Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
战 “疫” 已至中场，如今要拼的是战略和战术。
The battle "epidemic" has reached the midfield, now has to contend with the strategy and the tactics.
麻烦的是，敌情并不明朗，人类还在折损。
The trouble is, the enemy is not clear, the human race is still losing.
唯一能判断的是，鉴于新冠病毒的传染能力强，我们无法闪电战取胜。
The only thing to judge is that given the virulence of the new crown virus, we cannot win the blitzkrieg.
胜利终究是人类的。
Victory is, after all, human.
我们已经掌握了病毒的诸多规律，其中最主要的一条是，随着病毒的多代传播，其毒性会越来越弱。
We have mastered many of the laws of the virus, the most important of which is that it will become less toxic as the virus spreads over generations.
这是因其进化本质决定的，那些毒性更强的毒株会随着宿主人类的死去而消失，留下来的是毒性更弱的毒株。
This is due to the evolutionary nature of the more virulent strains that disappear with the death of the host humans, leaving behind more virulent strains.
当然，这也是病毒进化而来的优势，只有毒性减弱，它才能得到更多的宿主，才能长期繁衍下去。
This, of course, is the advantage of the virus's evolution, and only when it becomes less toxic can it acquire more hosts and reproduce over time.
这也是大多数病毒的结局。
This is where most viruses end up.
迄今人类真正消灭的传染病只有天花，它也是人类唯一消灭的疾病。
The only infectious disease that has ever been eradicated is smallpox, the only disease that has ever been eradicated from mankind.
那么新冠病毒的结局会是什么？它最终会被人类消灭，还是像流感病毒那样长期与人类共存，从而成为一种传染病，甚至是全球流行病？国内的疫情下一步会怎样？图 | 面对未知病毒，人们更多是恐慌。
So what will the New Crown Virus end up doing? Will it eventually be wiped out, or will it co-exist with humans for as long as the influenza virus, becoming an infectious disease, or even a global epidemic?
（来源：纽约时报）DeepTech 邀请了多位学者谈谈他们如何看待这些问题。
(Source: The New York Times) DeepTech has invited academics to talk about how they see these issues.
他们分别是香港大学公共卫生学院教授高本恩（Cowling, Benjamin Joh），传染病学家、浙江大学附属第一医院教授徐福洁，中国疾控中心原副主任杨功焕，美国对外关系委员会全球卫生高级研究员黄严忠，美国佐治亚大学卫生政策与管理系副教授陈茁。
They are Cowling, Benjamin Joh, a professor at the University of Hong Kong School of Public Health, Xu Fujie, a professor at Zhejiang University's First Hospital, Huang Yan-hwan, former deputy director of the China CDC, Huang Yan-chung, senior researcher on global health at the US Council on Foreign Relations, and Chen Zhuo, associate professor of health policy and management at the University of Georgia.
问题 1：新冠病毒感染会成为全球流行病吗？高本恩：我们仍在努力遏制新冠病毒的传播，但事实证明这很困难。
Question 1: Will a new crown virus infection become a global epidemic? Gobain: We are still trying to stop the spread of the new crown virus, but it has proved difficult.
如果我们无法控制其传播，那么至少在我们开发出疫苗之前，它就会成为流行病。
If we cannot control its spread, it will become an epidemic, at least until we develop a vaccine.
可以预期，随着病毒适应人类，感染的严重程度会随着时间的推移而降低。
It can be expected that the severity of the infection will decrease over time as the virus adapts to humans.
如果这种病毒像其他人类冠状病毒一样能导致类似流感疾病的话，那也不足为奇。
If the virus, like any other coronavirus in humans, could cause a flu-like illness, it is not surprising.
通常情况下，开发有效的疫苗需要很多年。
Often, it takes years to develop an effective vaccine.
即使紧急情况加速开发，也需要长达 12 个月的时间。
Even an accelerated development of an emergency can take up to 12 months.
徐福洁：这是概率问题，得力的防控措施会降低这个概率，所以可能性是由包括中国在内的各国防控措施决定的。
Xu Fujie: This is a probabilistic problem, effective prevention and control measures will reduce this probability, so the possibility is determined by national control measures, including China.
这个概率是动态的，中国起始防治不力，但是后期发力，克服更多困难，但是控制的可能性依然存在。
This probability is dynamic, China's initial control is weak, but later efforts to overcome more difficulties, but the possibility of control still exists.
药物的作用可能是立竿见影的，一方面通过集中力量，研发出重磅的抗病毒药或者抗体物，可以解决信心和恐惧问题。
Drugs can have an immediate effect, on the one hand, by focusing on the development of a heavy-weight antiviral drug or antibody, can solve the problem of confidence and fear.
另一方面，小的进步如通过临床数据分享和分析、及时优化，也可以减少病人死亡数量，但问题是如何形成共享和合力，中国和国际上能不能做到。
On the other hand, small advances, such as through clinical data sharing and analysis, and timely optimization, can also reduce the number of patient deaths, but the question is how to create sharing and synergies that China and the international community cannot.
疫苗研发是长期的，其作用要看未来疫情走势，但同样互助合力可以缩短疫苗研发时间。
Vaccine research and development is long-term, depending on the future course of the epidemic, but the same combination of mutual assistance can shorten vaccine development time.
黄严忠：在传播若干代后，病毒毒性就会逐步减弱。
Mr. Huang: After several generations of transmission, the virus will gradually become less toxic.
比如 2009 年 H1N1 流感大流行，自当年 4 月份开始传播，到 2010 年 8 月 10 日世界卫生组织宣布 H1N1 甲型流感大流行已经结束。
For example, the H1N1 influenza pandemic of 2009 began to spread in April of that year, and the World Health Organization declared the end of the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic on 10 August 2010.
考虑到病毒的流行时间较短，而且死亡率不高，这是一个比较”理想”的状况。
This is an ideal situation, given the relatively short prevalence of the virus and the low mortality rate.
如果是变成一个类似季节性流感那样的传染病，那就是说人类将与它共存了，我们会对其特性和风险基本上有一个比较客观的评估。
If it turns out to be an infectious disease like seasonal flu, it means that humans will coexist with it, and we will basically have a more objective assessment of its characteristics and risks.
届时疫苗也会开发出来，所以大家就不用特别担心。
Vaccines will also be developed, so people don't have to worry too much.
至于新冠病毒感染会不会成为全球流行病，现在判断的时机还不成熟。
It is too early to judge whether a new crown virus infection could become a global epidemic.
目前基本上主要威胁中国。
China is now basically the main threat.
世界卫生组织有 “全球健康安全” 的概念，如今指的是急性突发公共卫生事件，并且对多个国家构成威胁。
The World Health Organization has the concept of "global health security," which now refers to acute public-health emergencies and poses a threat to many countries.
这个定义将现在中美两国都有的流感与目前新冠病毒区分开来。
The definition distinguishes the flu, which now exists in both China and the United States, from the current new crown virus.
后者才是全球健康安全关心的范畴，尽管死亡人数比流感少很多。
The latter is the area of global health and safety concern, despite the fact that the death toll is much lower than that of influenza.
杨功焕：SARS 病毒有 10 多年没有出现了，但你也不能说就是被消灭了，因为事实上我们对 SARS 病毒为什么会消失还不是很清楚，所以现在要给出一个很准确的说法，还很难说。
Mr. Yeung: The SARS virus hasn't been around for more than a decade, but you can't say it was wiped out, because it's not clear why the SARS virus disappeared, so it's hard to say for sure.
事实上我们现在对新冠病毒了解的还很少。
We don't really know much about the new crown virus yet.
有的人感染了新冠病毒，可能没有发病，我们也没有察觉。
Some people are infected with the new crown virus, may not have the disease, we do not know.
如果很多人产生了保护性抗体，那么即使有感染，它不一定会发病。
If many people develop protective antibodies, they do not necessarily get sick even if they have an infection.
如果这种情况比例比较多，它就不会有那么恐怖。
If it were more proportional, it would be less terrifying.
对病毒的研究，有利于开发出疫苗，这样我们就有可能跟它处于长期共存的状态。
Research on the virus helps to develop a vaccine, so we may be able to live with it for a long time.
从大的框架来看，人跟微生物之间的关系是这样的，因为病毒不可能消灭。
From a larger framework, the relationship between humans and microorganisms is such that viruses cannot be eliminated.
我们唯一消灭了的只有天花，所以如何规范人的行为就很重要。
The only thing we have eliminated is smallpox, so it is important to regulate human behavior.
问题 2：世界卫生组织团队将来华帮忙，你希望他们能起到哪些作用？杨功焕：抗击新冠病毒肺炎需要集全球之力。
Question 2: WHO teams will come to China to help. What role do you want them to play?
世界卫生组织集结全球的专家来华，可望在各个层面如科学、流行病、诊断检测、临床治疗都有助于我们的防治工作。
By bringing together experts from around the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) is expected to contribute to our response at all levels: science, epidemiology, diagnostic testing and clinical treatment.
黄严忠：如今还没有找到病毒的源头，这是非常棘手一个问题。
Huang Yanzhong: The source of the virus has not been found, which is a very difficult problem.
所以我建议世界卫生组织不仅仅要派公共卫生官员、医生、流行病学家，还要派病毒学家来。
So I suggest that the World Health Organization send not only public health officials, doctors, epidemiologists, but virologists as well.
特别是现在一些人质疑武汉病毒所实验室的时候，更需要澄清真相。
Especially now some people question the Wuhan virus laboratory, more need to clarify the truth.
除此之外，世界卫生组织的专家还可以第一手知道现在疫情进展，评估防疫措施的有效性，以及评估现有应对策略需不需要调整。
In addition, experts from the World Health Organization will be able to see first-hand how the epidemic is progressing, assess the effectiveness of preventive measures and assess whether existing response strategies need to be adjusted.
图 | 一名疑似感染冠状病毒的病人肺部的 CT 影像。
CT scan of the lungs of a patient suspected of contracting coronavirus.
（来源：路透社）问题 3：世界卫生组织专家、伦敦卫生和热带医学院流行病专家戴维 · 海曼（David Heymann）教授说，能不能遏止疫情蔓延，主要看一个国家的公共卫生实力。
(Source: Reuters) Question 3: Professor David Heymann, a WHO expert and epidemiologist at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, says whether the spread of the epidemic can be stopped depends largely on the public health strength of a country.
你怎么看？徐福洁：手段上和管理上，就是选择有效适宜的措施，管理上是落实这些措施，要落实到合理的地方、合理的人和合理的时间。
What do you think? Xu Fujie: means and management, is to choose effective and appropriate measures, management is to implement these measures, to be reasonable place, reasonable person and reasonable time.
我同意海曼的说法，但是特别强大的传染病击垮一个地区的应对能力也可以理解，毕竟我们防备了百年一遇的洪水，还有 500 年一遇的大洪水，类似堤坝承受能力的问题。
I agree with Heyman, but it is also understandable that particularly powerful infectious diseases overwhelm a region's coping capacity, because we are protected against floods that occur once in a century, and floods that occur only once in 500 years, similar to the carrying capacity of dams.
陈茁：我同意海曼教授的说法。
Mr. Chen: I agree with Professor Heyman.
国家综合实力、治理能力和动员能力也是遏止疫情蔓延的重要因素。
Comprehensive national strength, governance capacity and mobilization capacity are also important factors in halting the spread of the epidemic.
武汉封城恐怕是近代史上史无前例的事情，很少国家能做到。
Wuhan is probably unprecedented in modern history, few countries can do so.
黄严忠：一方面可以看到中国公共卫生跟 SARS 的时候比确实有了比较大的进步，特别是公共卫生均等化，国家在这方面投入比以前多了很多，硬件设施基本上也做了不少。
Mr. Huang: On the one hand, we can see that public health in China has made great progress compared with SARS, especially the equalization of public health.
中国在 2014 年对照《国际卫生条例》进行 “核心监测与反应能力” 评估，已满足 90% 以上指标，大部分发展中国家都没能达到这个要求。
China's 2014 Core Monitoring and Response Capacity Assessment against the International Health Regulations has met more than 90% of the targets, and most developing countries have failed to meet this requirement.
所以你可以想象，有些紧急应变能力缺乏的国家遇到这样的疫情会是何等情形。
So you can imagine what it would be like to have a situation like this in some of the emergency countries.
但这不仅涉及硬件设施，还有人和制度的问题，即怎么来运作这个系统。
But it's not just about hardware, it's also about people and institutions, how to run the system.
有时候遇到一个疫情你不往上报，有这个系统也没用，是吧？这也是公共卫生实力的一部分。
Sometimes you don't report an epidemic, and it doesn't help to have one, does it? It's part of public health.
另外一个方面，这样的一个疾病爆发，特别是到了 1 月 23 日武汉决定 “封城” 的时候，已经变成了一种非常大的危机了，就是说武汉现有的公共体系已经无法应对处理了。
On the other hand, such an outbreak, especially by the time Wuhan decided on January 23 to "close the city," has become a very big crisis, that is to say, Wuhan's existing public system can no longer cope with it.
所以就实力而言的话，就要看你有没有能力应对处理这么大的危机，也就是我们说的危机管控的能力，把资源快速整合来应对危机的能力。
So in terms of strength, it depends on your ability to respond to a crisis of this magnitude, which is what we call crisis management, and to quickly integrate resources to respond to a crisis.
2009 年 H1N1 疫情和 2013 年 H7N9 疫情似乎给了我们一种假象，好像中国真的可以掌控这些疫情了。
The H1N1 pandemic in 2009 and the H7N9 epidemic in 2013 seem to give us the illusion that China can really control these outbreaks.
这次新冠疫情则暴露了应急反应机制的脆弱。
The new outbreak has exposed the fragility of emergency response mechanisms.
此次危机结束之后如何来补齐短板，这是一个很大的挑战。
How to fill the gap after this crisis is a big challenge.
我也建议过仿照美国疾控中心设立公共卫生部队，后来被有些阴谋论者讲成用来对付别国的生物武器或基因武器，这是一个误区。
I also suggested the creation of a public health force along the lines of the CDC, which was later described by some conspiracy theorists as a biological or genetic weapon to be used against other countries.
问题 4：中国是不是对新冠病毒疫情过度反应了？高本恩：我们仍需有关感染严重程度的信息，因为我们知道某些感染症状可能非常轻微，而另一些感染则可能是致命的。
Question 4: Is China over-reacting to the new crown virus epidemic? Gobain: We still need information about the severity of the infection, because we know that some of the symptoms can be very mild, while others can be fatal.
目前可获得的证据表明，平均而言，冠状病毒感染比流感病毒感染严重得多。
The available evidence suggests that, on average, coronavirus infection is much more serious than influenza virus infection.
因此，我们应努力来控制其传播。
Therefore, we should try to control its spread.
问题 5：一些人看好新加坡的做法，认为应该着重于救治重症患者，围追堵截的策略造成的社会和经济成本是难以承受的。
Question 5: Some people are optimistic about Singapore's approach, arguing that the focus should be on treating the seriously ill, and that the social and economic costs of the round-up strategy are unbearable.
如何因地制宜去往下走？陈茁：目前对新冠肺炎的了解还有一些不确定性。
How to adapt to local conditions? Chen: At present, there is some uncertainty about the understanding of the new crown pneumonia.
如果治愈率真的能接近流感的量级，或许我们可以调整策略，不然经济成本太大了。
If the cure rate is really close to the magnitude of the flu, perhaps we can adjust the strategy, or the economic cost is too high.
黄严忠：我觉得新加坡做法是比较明智的。
Mr. Wong: I think Singapore's approach is more sensible.
因为它实际上是吸取了 2009 年的教训，那时候欧美基本上都听从了世界卫生组织的建议，及时调整了策略，也就是止损或者是减降低损失的策略。
This is because it actually learned the lessons of 2009, when Europe and the US largely followed the World Health Organization's advice and adjusted their strategies in a timely manner, that is, stop-loss or reduce-loss strategies.
当然要因地制宜。
Definitely tailored to local conditions.
对于中国而言，目前还是要执行围堵策略。
For China, the current policy of containment is still to be implemented.
同时要继续跟踪新冠病毒病死率、每天的新增病例，审时度势，及时作出调整。
At the same time, we should continue to track the new crown virus mortality rate, new cases every day, review the situation, timely make adjustments.
-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情最终结局是什么，会成为全球大流行吗？多位权威专家：病毒可能与人类长期共存。
What is the final outcome of the New Crown Epidemic, a global pandemic? Many pundits: the virus may coexist with humans for a long time.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情最终结局是什么，会成为全球大流行吗？多位权威专家：病毒可能与人类长期共存";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What was the final outcome of the new crown epidemic, a global pandemic? Many leading experts: may have coexisted with human beings at & quot;?;?
var msg_desc = "战 “疫” 已至中场，如今要拼的是战略和战术。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; the plague was at midfield; it's now a matter of strategy and tactics.
麻烦的是，敌情并不明朗，人类还在折损。
The trouble is, the enemy is not clear, the human race is still losing.
唯一能判断的是，鉴于新冠";。
The only thing to judge is that AT & quot; T & quot; & quot;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
