抗击疫情，这些下沉一线的各级机关干部都在做什么？。
To combat the epidemic, what are the cadres at all levels of the sinking chain doing?
应琛。
Yingchen.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
在小区门口、在居委会、在火车站出口……这些机关干部的身影活跃在在各处。
At the gate of the community, in the neighborhood committee, at the railway station exit... The figures of these officials are active everywhere.
记者 | 应　琛“您好，请出示一下出入证。
"Hello, may I have a pass, please?"
再来测量一下体温，谢谢”，“您是到这里看望父亲的对吗？请到这边填一下登记表，再测量一下体温”……这些天，在长宁区虹梅花苑小区门口，总能见到一名身穿红色马甲的志愿者。
Take your temperature again, thank you. "Are you here to see your father? Fill in the registration form here and take a temperature check...".. these days, at the gate of the Hong Mui Garden in Changning District, there is always a volunteer wearing a red vest.
除了在小区“站岗守门”，这名志愿者还会跟着居委会干部到辖区内居民区家里走访排查。
In addition to the "sentry guard" in the community, the volunteer will follow the neighborhood committee cadres to the residential areas home inspection.
当小区居民见到陌生的脸孔问起是谁时，居委会干部都会亲切地介绍，“这是新来的志愿者王老师”。
When residents see strange face asked who is the neighborhood committee cadres will kindly introduce, "This is the new volunteers, Miss Wang."
居委会工作人员和志愿者上门排查　受访者供图当前，上海的疫情防控面临着人员返沪、企业复工的双重考验。
At present, the prevention and control of the epidemic in Shanghai is faced with the double test of returning to Shanghai and returning to work.
为缓解基层人手紧缺，连日来，上海各级机关干部重心下移、力量下沉，走出办公室，走进街道居委、火车站等交通枢纽，共同筑牢外防输入、内防扩散的基层防线。
To ease the shortage of staff at the grass-roots level, officials at all levels in Shanghai have, over the past few days, shifted their focus and lowered their strength.
我们是来支援，不是来添麻烦的“他早上8点半不到就到居委会了，没有双休日，天天跟着我们跑小区，跑楼，跑居民家，还会上门做隔离流调，只要哪里缺人，总说‘我来我来’。
He comes to the neighborhood committee before 8: 30 in the morning. There are no two-day vacations. He follows us every day to our neighborhood, running buildings, running houses, and going to the door to do isolation shifts.
今天上午，他还跟着我们居委会的人一起去了一处外来人口集聚地核查。
This morning, he also followed us to the neighborhood committee to check a concentration of foreign population.
我们接到消息，那里回来一个湖北人，但自称只是去嘉善探亲，没有回过湖北。
We received word that there was a Hubei people back there, but claimed to be only to visit Jiashan, did not return to Hubei.
”对于这位志愿者“王老师”，长宁区程家桥街道南龚居委书记张桦显得十分满意，“他是一个局长，但一点架子都没有”。
"To this volunteer" teacher Wang, "Changning District Cheng Jiaxao Street Secretary Zhang birch appeared very satisfied," he is a director, but no shelf. "
“在这里，我就是一个志愿者，一切还要听我们张书记安排。
"I am a volunteer here, and I have to listen to our secretary-general.
”虽然嘴上说着“不是局长”，但这位志愿者“王老师”其实正是长宁区体育局局长王仁伟。
Although the words "not the director of the bureau," but the volunteer "Miss Wang" is in fact the Director of the Changning District Sports Bureau Wang Renwei.
1月31日，长宁区委书记王为人在区新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组会议上强调，当前，任务最重的是各街镇和基层一线。
On January 31, Changning District Party Secretary Wang Weizhen stressed at the District New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Working Group meeting, the most important tasks at present are the street towns and grass-roots line.
区机关各个部门都要抽调领导干部和工作人员充实到街镇一线支援作战，切实减轻基层负担，形成更大合力。
All departments of district organs should draw their leading cadres and staff to the frontline support operations in streets and towns so as to lighten the burden at the grass-roots level and form greater synergy.
长宁区各级机关干部充实到街镇一线支援作战　受访者供图2月3日，10支由区各级机关干部组成的志愿者队伍分别下沉至区内10个街道。
On February 3, a team of 10 volunteers, composed of cadres from all the district bodies and agencies at all levels, descended to 10 streets in the district.
由长宁区绿化市容局、体育局、政协办、建管委、国资委、团区委和市场监管局组成的12人志愿队伍进入程家桥街道开展工作，王仁伟任领队。
A 12-member volunteer team from Changning District Green City Appearance Bureau, Sports Bureau, CPPCC Office, Construction and Management Committee, SASAC, League District Committee and Market Supervision Bureau entered Cheng Jiaqiao Street to work, led by Wang Renwei.
在街道，志愿者们走访了程家桥的8个居民区，深入了解实际困难后，有的直接就前往居民区开展工作。
On the streets, volunteers visited eight neighborhoods of Chengjiaqiao and, after learning more about practical difficulties, some went directly to work in residential areas.
而留在街道的志愿者们连续3天对程家桥辖区内112家沿街商铺进行核查和上门告知，并发放疫情防控告知书，开展来返沪人员扫码信息登记工作。
For three days, volunteers who stayed on the streets checked and informed 112 shops along the street in Chengjiaqiao area, and issued disease prevention and control notices to carry out the work of returning to Shanghai personnel sweep code information registration.
对未开业商铺，志愿者们通过电话向企业传达防疫工作，要求他们登记好来返沪人员信息。
For unopened shops, volunteers conveyed the epidemic prevention work to enterprises by telephone, asking them to register and return to Shanghai personnel information.
走访外地返沪人员　受访者供图随着工作重心的调整，2月8日，“王老师”和区绿化市容局的志愿者周红武一早便出现在了南龚居委会。
On Feb. 8, Zhou Hongwu, a volunteer with the District Greening and Appearance Bureau, appeared in the South Gong Commission early this morning.
而张桦也“毫不客气”，将沉甸甸的一袋子卡片递到二人手中，并交待了“第一个任务”——制作小区出入证。
Ms Zhang, too, "was unkind" and handed a heavy bag of cards to the two men, saying "the first task" - making a small-area pass.
虽然心里没底，但又想在一天内完成任务，让居民尽早持证出入，王仁伟想出了“快速盖章工作法”，上午集中填写出入证内容，下午则将人分为两组流水线操作，一组将出入证铺开，另一组负责盖章。
Although the heart is not clear, but also want to complete the task within a day, so that residents as early as possible, Wang Renwei worked out a "quick seal work method," the morning concentrated on filling in the content of the pass, afternoon will be divided into two assembly lines, one will be spread out, the other will be responsible for stamp.
八小时之后，他与周红武，还有南龚居委干部就完成了10个住宅小区5400张出入证的制作。
Eight hours later, he completed the production of 5,400 passes in 10 residential districts with Zhou Hongwu, as well as cadres of the Southern Gong Commissariat.
“王老师的手都磨出水泡来了。
"Miss Wang's hands are all blistered.
”张桦说，通过这件事，她可以放心地给志愿者派任务了，因为他们到基层是真正做事的。
Through this, Ms Zhang says, she can safely delegate tasks to volunteers because they really do things at the grass-roots level.
志愿者制作小区出入证　受访者供图事实上，“王老师”只是长宁区各级机关干部下沉一线志愿者的一个缩影。
In fact, "Miss Wang" is just a microcosm of the first-line volunteers sinking staff at all levels in Changning District.
记者从长宁区了解到，目前长宁区已经抽调共291名机关干部到一线支援，以应对接下去更大的返沪潮。
The reporter understands from Changning District that 291 cadres from the agencies have been transferred to the frontline support so as to cope with the greater return to Shanghai.
通过两周的基层工作，身处各个街道的志愿者深感基层一线防控工作的繁琐与压力。
Through two weeks of grass-roots work, volunteers in every street feel the tedium and pressure of primary prevention and control.
眼下，对于返沪人员的管理是居委会工作中最难的，因为每天都是动态的，“尽管进来时都要进行健康登记，但居委会之后还要上门核实，挨家挨户地摸清情况。
At present, the management of the returnees to Shanghai is the most difficult work of the neighborhood committee, because every day is dynamic, "although the health registration when entering, but also after the neighborhood verification, door-to-door to find out the situation.
不能全凭他们自己说，还要让返沪居民给我们看车票等相关信息”。
Can not rely on their own, but also to return to Shanghai residents to show us tickets and other relevant information. "
所谓“一线守门人”，大抵就是要如此细致。
The so-called "first-line gatekeeper", is to be so meticulous.
把这里当作家门来守，上海安全了，你的家也就安全了降温加上阵雨，2月15日，上海的天气有些阴冷。
Take this place as your home, Shanghai is safe, your home is safe from the cold and showers, February 15, the weather in Shanghai is a little cold.
13时左右，上海火车站西南出口，临时搭建的检查通道内来了一名身着银灰色羽绒服，戴着黑色口罩和红色围巾，脚穿棉拖鞋的男子。
At about 1300 hours, a man in a silver-gray down jacket, a black mask and red scarf, and cotton slippers came into the makeshift inspection passageway at the southwest exit of Shanghai Railway Station.
静安区城管执法局的志愿者孙伟国在指导该男子填写健康状况信息登记表时，发现其虽然按要求完整填写信息登记表，但在填写时，他手捂口鼻、神情恍惚。
When Sun Weiguo instructed the man to fill out the health information registration form, he found that although he had filled out the information registration form as required, he covered his nose and mouth and was in a trance.
在另一名该局志愿者董春华对他进一步核查身份信息时，发现该男子未携带身份证原件，而临时身份证上字迹已经模糊，通过少数可辨认的身份证号码与信息登记表上填写的号码进行比对后存在出入。
Upon further verification of his identity by another Board volunteer, Dong Chun-hua, it was discovered that the man was not carrying the original identity card and that the handwriting on the temporary identity card was blurred, with a few legible identification numbers being compared to the number indicated on the information sheet.
志愿者发现可疑旅客　沈琳 | 摄于是，对其填写信息的真实性产生怀疑的志愿者叫来了现场负责人邓铭一。
Volunteers who had doubts about the authenticity of the information they filled in called in Deng Mingyi, the person in charge of the scene.
“现在处于特殊时期，我们是不能放你出站的，请你配合待在原地。
"Now in a special period, we can not let you out of the station, please stay where you are.
”稳住了该男子后，邓铭一随即联系了当班民警。
After stabilizing the man, Deng immediately contacted the police on duty.
在对其个人信息、来沪目的、居住地址进行核查的过程中，该男子语焉不详，三缄其口。
In the process of checking his personal information, purpose and address in Shanghai, the man was vague and tight-lipped.
在判定其为“双无”（在上海无工作、无居住地）人员后，民警和志愿者对他进行劝返，并陪同他购买了返程的车票，直到送其上车。
After deciding that he was "jobless" (no job in Shanghai, no place to live), the police and volunteers persuaded him to return and accompanied him on a return trip ticket until he got on the bus.
对“双无”来沪人员进行劝返　沈琳| 摄上海站铁路管委会办公室常务副主任黄翔在接受采访时表示，2月1日起，根据上海市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组要求，从上海高速道口、机场、火车站入境上海的所有旅客，都要先在“健康云”APP上填写来沪人员健康登记表，“火车站之前是没有这块工作的，像你看到的这个篷是我们临时搭建的，队伍也是临时组建的，就连整个登记的流程也是边做边摸索”。
Starting February 1, all passengers entering Shanghai from Shanghai's new coronavirus infection must fill in the Shanghai Health Registration Form on the Shanghai expressway entrance, airport and railway station. "There was no such job before the train station.
所幸的是，上海火车站来了一批又一批的支援力量。
Fortunately, Shanghai Railway Station has a batch of support forces.
2月4日，静安区便抽调了近百名各级机关干部增援这里。
On 4 February, the Jing'an District reinforced it with nearly 100 cadres from all levels of the bureaucracy.
静安区体育局党组副书记邓铭一成了西南出口的大组长。
Jingan District Sports Bureau Deputy Secretary Deng Mingyi has become the Southwest export team leader.
他告诉《新民周刊》，来到这后，他与来自区各个委办局的志愿者们分成了4个班组，每班次6小时，全天24小时负责核实旅客入沪信息登记，筛查重点地区来沪人员。
He told Xinmin Weekly that since arriving, he and volunteers from various commissions in the district have been divided into four shifts of six hours each, 24 hours a day, to verify the entry of passengers into the Shanghai Information Register and to screen key areas for Shanghai-based personnel.
志愿者指导旅客填写健康状况信息登记表　沈琳｜摄每天志愿者们都必须穿戴一次性连体防护服，戴口罩和手套，尤其是指导旅客填表等会与旅客有近距离交流的岗位。
Each day the volunteers must wear disposable protective clothing, masks, and gloves, especially those jobs where passengers can communicate closely with their passengers, such as filling in forms.
“旅客扫码填表提交后，会收到相应短信，告知你是A类还是B类。
"When you submit a scanned form, you will receive a text message telling you whether you are in A or B status.
B类人员，只需在出口出示手机的相关信息就可以直接出站。
Category B personnel, only need to show the information about the mobile phone at the exit can be directly out of the station.
A类人员，要经过工作人员登录系统进行核验，查看旅客的身份证和车票，并询问近14天的行程后，未到过疫情重点地区的放行，到过重点地区的根据是否有固定住所分居家隔离和集中隔离两种情况来处理。
Category A personnel, who go through the staff login system to check the identity and tickets of passengers and ask for clearance in priority areas that have not been cleared after nearly 14 days of travel, are handled on the basis of whether there is a fixed residence for separation and centralized segregation.
”上岗的第一天，邓铭一就遇到了一个难题。
On his first day in office, Mr Deng had a problem.
一辆由重庆经停武汉来的列车，车上所有乘客都被判定为A类。
A train from Chongqing stopped in Wuhan, and all the passengers on it were judged A-class.
“我们发现情况很严重，当时所有的乘客都在信息登记区域滞留，等待信息的一一确认。
"We found that the situation was serious and all the passengers were stuck in the registration area, waiting for the information to be confirmed.
”邓铭一当即联系了站管办了解情况，“尽管它途经武汉，但列车不开门，也不上客，所以我们只要核对旅客填的身份证和车票等基本信息没问题就可以放行了。
"Deng immediately contacted the station management office for information." Although it passed through Wuhan, the train was closed and not attended, so we just checked the basic information such as the passenger's ID and ticket and let it go.
不然光凭申报信息，我们也没有把握。
Otherwise, we are not sure with the declaration information alone.
”后来，健康云后台针对这一情况做出了软件更新——根据铁路运营情况，把经停湖北的选项去掉了，这样就不会出现“假A”的情况，未经过疫情重点地区的就显示为B。
Later, Health Cloud backstage made a software update to address the situation--removing the option of stopping Hubei according to railway operations, so that there would be no "false A" situation, and those that did not go through the epidemic area would be shown as B.
类似的情况，还有针对来沪转机的外国人。
A similar situation applies to foreigners who have come to Shanghai for transit.
在这里支援的这些日子，志愿者们每天都会将发现的问题，及时反馈，从而完善实际工作的操作流程。
In these days of support, volunteers will find the problem, timely feedback, so as to improve the actual operation process.
志愿者逐一核对旅客填写的信息　沈琳｜摄近来，随着春运延续，“双无”来沪人员逐渐增加。
Volunteers check the information one by one, Shen Lin, with the extension of spring transportation, "double nothing" came to Shanghai gradually increase.
志愿者们在指导、核查信息登记的同时，也练就了一副火眼金睛，严把入沪闸门，“我经常对他们说，要像守自己家门那样，来守住出口。
Volunteers in the guidance, verification of information registration, but also a pair of hot eyes, strict into the Shanghai gate, "I often told them, like guarding their own door, to guard the exit.
这里守住了，上海才安全了，你的小家也就安全了”。
It is here that Shanghai is safe and your little home is safe.
“他们的到来很大程度上解决了我们人手不足的问题。
"Their arrival has gone a long way towards solving our understaffing problem.
”黄翔表示，志愿者们工作都非常认真。
The volunteers were very serious about their work, he said.
来自静安区文明办的志愿者手持喇叭提醒旅客扫码登记　沈琳｜摄记者从静安区委组织部了解到，1月27日开始，他们便抽调城管、市场局等执法部门人员增援一线公共场所检查，2月2日又组织机关干部增援街镇一线，2月4日再次抽调96名干部增援上海火车站。
The volunteers from the Jingan District Civilization Office carried a loudspeaker to remind passengers to check in Shen Lin. Since January 27, they have deployed personnel from law enforcement agencies such as the city administration and marketing bureau to reinforce front-line public inspection.
截至目前，静安区已从区级机关抽调300多名机关干部下沉一线。
Up to now, the Jing'an District has transferred more than 300 cadres from district-level organs.
RECOMMEND上海各区都在行动事实上，不仅仅是上述两个区。
RECOMMEND Shanghai districts are all operating in fact, not just the two above-mentioned districts.
在上海各区，目前一批来自区级机关、事业单位以及各街镇的党员干部，已经来到了社区一线，来到群众最需要的地方。
At present, a number of Party members and cadres from district-level organs, institutions and towns in Shanghai have arrived at the front lines of the community and come to the places where the masses need them most.
他们在深入了解、理解社区的同时，也用自己的专业技能和敬业精神为社区贡献力量。
They know and understand the community, but also use their professional skills and professionalism to contribute to the community.
记者从杨浦区了解到，为确保基层一线防控力量，根据区委要求，区委组织部通过各级党组织广泛宣传发动，从全区范围内统一抽调机关企事业党员、干部，积极做好人员梯度储备、调配，根据一线需求情况，及时安排党员干部下沉支援社区防控工作，充实基层一线防控力量。
The reporter learned from Yangpu District that, in order to ensure primary prevention and control forces at the grass-roots level, at the request of district committees, district Party committees conduct wide publicity and launch campaigns through Party organizations at all levels.
全区共精准选调了171名政治意识强、身体素质好、春节期间未离沪或居家观察期满的党员、干部，参与人员排摸、值班巡查、口罩登记、集中观察点值守等一线防控工作，截至2月6日，大部分已经充实到社区一线防控岗位，用行动筑牢疫情“防护墙”。
As of February 6, 171 party members and cadres with strong political awareness, good health and who have not left Shanghai or their homes to observe the end of Spring Festival have been selected to take part in frontline prevention and control work.
同时，为应对返程抵沪高峰，区委组织部在全区机关企事业单位中再发动、再号召，将外出返沪居家观察期满的党员、干部补充进来，充实后备力量，目前已储备100余名，随时待命，支援一线。
At the same time, in order to cope with the peak of the return trip, the organizing department of the district committee launched and renewed the call in enterprises and institutions throughout the region to replenish the reserve force by adding party members and cadres who have returned to Shanghai after their stay in Shanghai to observe the expiry of their stay.
区区级机关工作党委、团区委也积极组建党员志愿者、青年志愿者团队，目前已招募800余名，根据疫情发展情况，分批次下沉到社区开展工作，确保一线防控工作有力有序。
District Party committees and sub-committee committees at district level have also actively formed Party members' volunteer and youth volunteer teams, and more than 800 have been recruited so far to work in communities in batches according to the development of the epidemic.
闵行区区级工作人员下沉社区共抗疫情　图｜今日闵行公众号而在闵行区，为进一步加强区级力量统筹，缓解社区一线疲劳运转困境和持续作战压力，闵行区下沉区级机关、企事业单位人员组团支援社区疫情防控工作，62个单位派出1673名工作人员下沉407个定点支援居委，涉及701个小区，做实做细分片包干，因地制宜、因情施策、精准施策，使每个社区都成为疫情防控的坚强堡垒。
Minhang District staff sinking community anti-epidemic map in Minhang District today Minhang Public Number and in Minhang District, in order to further strengthen district-level forces, relieve the difficulties of community-level first-line fatigue and persistent operational pressure, Min Hang District has sent 1,673 staff to support community epidemic prevention and control.
在虹口区，机关事业单位的595名干部组成疫情防控干部突击队，投身全区206个居民区开展社区疫情防控全覆盖工作及居委相关工作。
In Hongkou District, 595 cadres from state organs and institutions made up the cadres of the disease prevention and control commando unit, which worked in 206 residential areas of the region to carry out full coverage of community epidemic prevention and control and the work of neighborhood committees.
他们在社区蹲点防控疫情，协助社区原有力量，筑牢社区疫情防控的铜墙铁壁，打好这场防控保卫战。
They squat in the community to prevent and control the epidemic, assist the original community strength, build community disease prevention and control walls, play a good defense war.
虹口区595名干部组成的疫情防控干部突击队为做到进沪人员健康信息登记的全覆盖，徐汇区第一时间组织区建管委、区体育局、区绿化市容局、区城管执法局、民防办、南站管委办等单位的机关干部志愿对上海铁路南站进行了24小时不间断的三班制防疫支援，确保守住疫情输入第一关。
In order to ensure the full coverage of the health information register of the staff of 595 cadres in Hongkou district, the officials of Xuhui District first organized the local construction and management committee, district sports bureau, district green city appearance bureau, district administration law enforcement bureau, civil defence office, south station management office and so on.
在小区门口、在居委会、在火车站出口……这些机关干部的身影活跃在各处。
At the gate of the community, in the neighborhood committee, at the railway station exit... The figures of these organ cadres are active everywhere.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH 吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·复工第二周，记者走访上海地铁公交出租车，市内公共交通安全吗？·军事 | 驰援抗疫之战，解放军空中运输能力引关注·口述实录 | 两地防控政策不同，我们被困湖北一个月，如何才能回家？转载请在评论区留言，获得授权！转载时，须注明作者、出处和微信号。
Why don't you Why don't you Why don't we Why don't we Why don't we Why don't we Why don't we Why don't we go back to our country
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗击疫情，这些下沉一线的各级机关干部都在做什么？。
To combat the epidemic, what are the cadres at all levels of the sinking chain doing?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗击疫情，这些下沉一线的各级机关干部都在做什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Against the epidemic, what did all of its officials at all levels on the sinking line do?;?
var msg_desc = "​在小区门口、在居委会、在火车站出口……这些机关干部的身影活跃在在各处。
var msg _ desc = & quot; turning up at the gates, in neighborhood committees, at railway station exits... The cadre of these bodies is active everywhere.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '复工第二周，记者走访上海地铁公交出租车，市内公共交通安全吗？',。
At the start of its second week at work, did a reporter visit a Shanghai subway taxi to find public transportation safe in the city?
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '军事 | 驰援抗疫之战，解放军空中运输能力引关注',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 两地防控政策不同，我们被困湖北一个月，如何才能回家？',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
