迟到的农村防疫：1个鄂西村医，44名武汉返乡人，来不及测的体温。
The late rural epidemic prevention: a Huxi village doctor, 44 Wuhan returnees, too late to measure the body temperature.
汤禹成。
Stuart Stuart Stuart.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
鄂西乡间，村里开始贴上有关疫情的通告。
In the western Hubei countryside, the village began to put up the notice about epidemic situation.
向思琦摄全文共3498字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
A total of 3,498 words were sent to Saitama, which took about seven minutes to read.
在武汉之外的湖北农村，1月23日，才是众多村民意识到疫情严重的“关键日”。
Outside Wuhan, Hubei countryside, January 23, is the "critical day" when many villagers realize the severity of the epidemic.
在那天，武汉开始“封城”。
On that day, Wuhan began to "seal the city."
与突如其来的巨大防疫压力不相称的是，全村只有一名医生，村医无法每天找到这44个人，为他们检测体温。
Not commensurate with the sudden and overwhelming vaccination pressure, there was only one doctor in the village, who could not find the 44 people every day to have their body temperature tested.
当天晚上，有人在村微信群里询问村干部，“我们村有登记武汉来的人员吗？”有人质疑为什么老人可以拿到口罩。
That night, someone in the village micro-letter group asked village cadres, "our village has registered Wuhan people?" Some people questioned why the elderly can get masks.
医生解释：“年纪大了，容易得这个病（肺炎）。
"The doctor explains:" Old age, easy to get this disease (pneumonia).
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汤禹成南方周末特约撰稿 向思琦责任编辑 | 吴筱羽一场导致湖北多地“封城”的肺炎疫情，没有影响四百公里外鄂西乡间的人们如常过年。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint South Weekend reporter Tang Yucheng Southern Weekend. A special article with responsibility editor and chief engineer Wu Xiaoyu has caused a pneumonia epidemic that has shut down many parts of Hubei province, and has not affected people in western Hubei province as usual.
2020年农历除夕，襄阳村落，人们忙碌地换着新对联、贴年画、挂灯笼，团年饭前，鞭炮声照例此起彼落。
On the eve of the 2020 Lunar New Year, people in Xiangyang Village busily switched to new couplets, New Year's pictures, lanterns and firecrackers, as usual, before the Lunar New Year.
没人戴口罩。
No one was wearing masks.
“村里、镇上一般也不卖口罩。
"Village and town generally do not sell masks.
当然，现在想买也没有了。
Of course, I don't want to buy any now.
”说这话时，村里唯一的村医冯江脸上挂着苦笑。
"Feng Jiang, the village doctor, smiled sadly as he said this.
村子离武汉市约六小时车程。
The village is about six hours' drive from Wuhan.
冯江很小就跟着老中医父亲学医，近三十年来一直在这儿当村医，几年前，同事退休了，他成了唯一的村医。
Feng Jiang studied medicine with his father from an early age. He has been a village doctor here for nearly thirty years. A few years ago, he retired and became the only village doctor.
村卫生室门上贴着他的手机号码。
His cell phone number is on the door of the village clinic.
往年，农历大年三十他还可以回家团年，村民有事，打电话找他就行。
In previous years, the Chinese New Year's Eve, he can go home to tour year, villagers on business, just call him.
今年，他的年三十被来自武汉的疫情打破，骑摩托车回家吃个午饭，又匆忙回岗。
This year, his thirties were broken by an epidemic from Wuhan, who rode his motorcycle home for lunch and hurried back to work.
前一天，过来找他开药的人就有二十多个。
The day before, more than twenty people had come to him to prescribe medicine.
从乡镇到村落，再至各村民小组，农村疫情的防控迫在眉睫。
From townships to villages to groups of villagers, the prevention and control of the rural epidemic is imminent.
在官方通报中，截至1月24日24:00，襄阳全市累计确诊病例1例，疑似病例76例，据南方周末记者了解，其中包括多个农村疑似病例。
As of 2400 hours on January 24, a total of one case and 76 suspected cases had been confirmed in Xiangyang, including a number of suspected rural cases, according to Southern Weekend reporter.
1月26日清晨，人民日报公众号再度发出紧急呼吁：“防控疫情，别把农村漏了！”1推迟的乡村“关键日”在南方周末记者此前的电话采访中，多位武汉市民曾表示，病例通报激增的1月20日，成为武汉市民对疫情态度转向的关键一日。
"Prevention and control of the epidemic, do not leave the countryside behind!" In a telephone interview with Southern Weekend reporter earlier this morning, Wuhan city residents said the January 20 case report explosion marked a crucial day in the shift in attitude towards the epidemic in Wuhan.
而在武汉之外的湖北农村，1月23日，才是众多村民意识到疫情严重的“关键日”。
But outside Wuhan, Hubei countryside, January 23, is the "critical day" when many villagers realize the severity of the epidemic.
这天，武汉开始“封城”。
On this day, Wuhan began to "seal the city."
也是在这天，《人民日报》刊发评论称：“我国农村人口众多，卫生医疗条件相对较差，农民防范意识比较薄弱，外出务工经商的流动性很强，管理难度大。
Also on this day, the People's Daily commented: "China's rural population is large, health and medical conditions are relatively poor, farmers are relatively weak in their sense of prevention, and migrant workers are highly mobile in business and difficult to manage.
正值春节假期，大量外出务工人员从城市返回农村。
During the Spring Festival, large numbers of migrant workers return from the cities to the countryside.
春节期间，多数农村都有走亲访友、文艺演出等活动，人员聚集程度高，防范新型肺炎形势更加严峻。
During the Spring Festival, most rural areas have such activities as visiting relatives and friends, cultural performances, and so on.
”疫情防控的指令，从城市至乡镇，再至村落，往往需要一定时间。
Outbreak control orders, from cities to towns to villages, often take time.
据南方周末记者了解，湖北各乡镇的疫情防控工作，真正展开大约就在1月23日。
According to Southern Weekend reporter learned that the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei townships really started around January 23.
冯江的村子所属镇的镇医院公共卫生科主任介绍，1月22日上午，全镇召开卫生系统的会议，对各行政村的村医进行培训，镇医院全体工作人员被召回工作。
On the morning of January 22, a meeting of the town's health system was held to train village doctors in administrative villages, and the entire staff of the town hospital was recalled to work, the director of public health at the town hospital in Feng Jiang's village said.
当日下午，镇政府又召开全镇村干部会议再次强调疫情防控工作。
That afternoon, the township government convened a town and village cadres meeting to re-emphasize the disease prevention and control work.
1月23日，镇医院院长又去到县里，参与全县各乡镇医院的紧急培训。
On 23 January, the director of the township hospital went to the county to participate in the county hospital emergency training.
冯江也参加了镇上的会，晚上回到村里，便马上开始统计全村武汉返乡人员。
Feng Jiang also attended the town meeting, returned to the village in the evening, immediately began to count the village Wuhan returnees.
统计内容包括姓名、性别、年龄、住址、联系电话、往返武汉的交通工具、往返时间等，十分详尽。
The statistics include name, sex, age, address, telephone number, means of transportation to and from Wuhan, travel time, etc., very detailed.
彼时春节临近，大部分人已借着春运大潮返乡。
The Spring Festival was approaching and most of the people had returned home by spring transport.
从武汉回来的人，成为重点关注的对象。
People returning from Wuhan have become the focus of attention.
村里开始统计武汉返乡人士的1月22日，武汉大学生陈忱已经回到孝感大悟县彭店乡10天。
The village began counting Wuhan returnees January 22, Wuhan University students Chen Zheng has returned to filial piety Wuxian Pendian Township 10 days.
像陈忱这样的大学生，占据武汉返乡群体中的一定比例。
Such university students as Chen Zheng occupy a certain proportion of Wuhan returning home.
武汉是中国大学生数量最多的城市，2018年末的数据显示，武汉有普通高校84所，全年在校研究生13.8万人，本专科在校生96.9万人。
Wuhan is the city with the largest number of college students in China.By the end of 2018, Wuhan had 84 regular colleges and universities, with 138,000 graduate students and 969,000 undergraduate students.
加之地域优势，百万大学生中，湖北籍学生人数犹多。
In addition to geographical advantages, Hubei University students more than the number of students.
而他们返乡时间普遍较早，早在武汉“关键日”1月20日之前已普遍离开。
They return home earlier, as early as the Wuhan "key day" January 20 has generally left.
彭店村村支书在1月23日晚上造访陈忱家，他没戴口罩，拿着本子记录，询问陈忱返乡时间、身体状况，陈忱说没什么不适，村支书就走了。
Mr. Pang visited Chen Zheng on the evening of January 23. Without a mask and with a notebook, he asked for a time and a medical condition for her return.
没量体温，更多的是基于村人的信任。
No temperature, more based on the trust of the villagers.
陈忱在电话对南方周末记者说，村里从武汉返回的人不少，“鄂A牌照的车子比孝感还多。
Chen Zheng told Southern Weekend reporter by telephone that many people in the village had returned from Wuhan and that "cars with E-E license plates are more filial than filial piety.
”他的哥哥在封城前一天赶回了家，而姐姐更是在封城前几小时才回来。
"His brother returned home the day before the city was sealed, and his sister only a few hours before it.
这些武汉返乡人，都成了村医们这个春节的“工作对象”。
These Wuhan returnees, have become the village doctors this Spring Festival "work object."
21:44村医冯江的“工作对象”是44名武汉返乡人员。
21: 44 Village doctor Feng Jiang "work object" is 44 Wuhan returnees.
这是全镇武汉返乡人员最多的行政村之一，冯江有些紧张，“一旦出事，我们这责任就大了。
This is the town Wuhan returned to one of the largest administrative villages, Feng Jiang a little nervous, "once the accident, we have a big responsibility.
”与突如其来的巨大防疫压力不相称的是，全村只有他一名医生，他无法每天找到这44个人，为他们检测体温。
He was the only doctor in the village and could not find the 44 people every day to take their temperature.
“只能告诉村里各组组长，盯紧每个人的动态，挨个交代待在家不要乱跑。
"I can only tell the group leaders in the village to keep an eye on everyone's movements and tell them not to run around the house.
”冯江说。
"said Feng Jiang.
在湖北乡镇的疫情防控中，村民小组组长往往是最前线的排查人员。
In the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Township, the leader of the village group is often the front-line scavenger.
鄂州某镇一名镇干部解释，组长们知道各家各户的情况，便于摸排。
A town cadre of Huizhou explains, group leaders know each household circumstance, easy to touch arrange.
疫情防控，在不同的村落参差不齐。
Disease control varies from village to village.
另一个武汉返乡人员不到十人的村庄，村干部的通知却更为严厉。
Another Wuhan returning to the village of less than 10 people, the village cadre's notification is more stringent.
“明早六七点钟，我们村干部就在路上巡逻！如果发现有人不听劝阻，我行我素，串门拜年的，别怪我们不客气！”除了不断在村民微信群里叮嘱“近期若有发热，全身乏力，呼吸道干咳或呼吸困难等症状请随时并就诊”，并附上自己的手机号码,冯江还不断向村民重复预防肺炎的八句口诀：“勤洗手，戴口罩，少聚会，多通风，忌野味，吃熟食，遵医嘱，莫恐慌。
"Tomorrow at six or seven o'clock, our village cadres are on patrol on the road! Don't blame us for being rude if anyone disobeys the advice." Besides constantly telling villagers in micro-letters, "Wash your hands frequently, wear a mask, avoid meetings, have plenty of ventilation, avoid wild food, follow the doctor's advice and do not panic.
”“我觉得这个八句口诀最好，说多了村民们也看不懂、记不住。
"" I think this is the best eight-sentence formula, said the villagers do not understand, can not remember.
”冯江说。
"said Feng Jiang.
在农村地区，宣传需要通过更接地气的方式抵达。
In rural areas, advocacy needs to be reached through a more grounded approach.
一些村落，工作人员举着喇叭，在村道上敲锣打鼓，用方言广而告之，内容往往为“禁止一切团拜活动”“不走亲访友”“不相互拜年”“建议短信拜年”“出门必须戴口罩”。
In some villages, staff honk their horns and beat drums and gongs on village roads, often in local dialects. They often say "No tours, no friends or relatives," "No visiting friends or relatives," "No calling on each other for the New Year" and "You must wear a mask when going out.
一段在网络上流传的农村防疫视频显示，雾气缭绕的村庄里，各家各户大门紧闭，只留下一位村医喷洒消毒水的身影。
A video of rural epidemic prevention circulating on the Internet showed that in the misty villages, the doors were closed, leaving only a village doctor spraying disinfectant.
冯江不必一个人喷消毒水，他要在每天中午12点前向镇医院公卫科上报统计信息。
Feng Jiang does not have to spray disinfectant alone. He reports statistical information to the public health department of the town hospital by 12 noon every day.
1月23日这天，他手写了登记表，却被告知不合要求，必须建立电子档案统一管理。
On 23 January, he wrote the registration form by hand, but was told that it was not required and that a centralized management of the electronic records must be established.
冯江不怎么熟悉用电脑，只好又请来村里的年轻人，帮他把统计表登记到电脑上，这才勉强完成上报。
Feng Jiang is not familiar with the use of computers, had to invite the village young people, to help him register the statistical forms on the computer, then reluctantly completed the report.
村干部也没休息，在村干部一次又一次在村民微信群里“不合时宜”的提醒中，终于，有人在群里询问村干部，“我们村有登记武汉来的人员吗？”有村民甚至要求公布这份名单。
The village cadre also did not rest, in the village cadre again and again in the villagers micro-letter crowd "anachronistic" reminder, finally, someone in the group asked village cadres, "Our village has the registration of Wuhan personnel?" Some villagers even demanded that the list be made public.
一位老太太还在群里表达了自己的顾虑：有两个从武汉回来的侄孙要来探望，一年见一次，实在不想也不好意思拒绝，但又害怕。
An old lady also expressed her concern in the group: two nephews and grandnieces from Wuhan who were coming to visit them once a year did not want to refuse, but were afraid.
在众人七嘴八舌的劝说下，老太太最终拒绝了。
After much persuasion, the old lady finally refused.
鄂西乡间如往年春节一样平静，城里“封城”消息不断传来，人们才开始紧张起来。
The western Hubei countryside is as quiet as the Spring Festival in the past, and the news of the "closed city" in the city comes constantly.
向思琦摄3买不到的口罩和村里的热闹相比，15分钟车程外的镇上有些冷清。
Compared with the bustle in the village, the town 15 minutes away is a bit deserted.
来看病的人不多，医务人员频繁进出，大部分戴一次性医用口罩。
There were few visits and frequent medical staff, most of whom wore disposable medical masks.
村卫生所只能开药和看最简单的疾病，乡镇一级的医院，事实上成为乡镇应对发烧病人的第一个关卡。
Village health clinics can only prescribe medicines and look at the simplest diseases, and township-level hospitals have in fact become the first level at which townships respond to patients with fever.
预诊分诊处也是从1月23日开始设置的：体温正常的看常规门诊；体温偏高的则去看专为这次肺炎疫情开设的发热门诊。
Pre-clinics have also been set up since January 23: regular clinics with normal body temperature, and fever clinics for the pneumonia.
三层楼住院部也开辟了三楼作为隔离观察病房。
The three-storey inpatient department also has a third floor as an isolated observation ward.
不过，隔离病房如今还没派上用场。
But isolation wards are not yet in use.
1月24日下午3时，一位老人在预诊分诊处量了体温，温度计显示37.1℃，值班医生记录下相关信息，随后给她发了一只一次性医用外科口罩，称“体温正常，去隔壁房间看病”。
On 24 January, at 3 p.m., an old man took his temperature at the outpatient clinic. The thermometer showed 37.1 ° C, and the doctor on duty took note of the information and then gave her a disposable medical surgical mask, which he described as "having normal body temperature and going to see the doctor in the next room."
老人佝偻着背离开。
The old man hunched his back away.
旁边一个刚量过体温的年轻人见状，也上前索要口罩，医生摇头说：“没货！”有人质疑为什么老人可以拿到口罩。
Next to a young man who had just taken his temperature, he asked for a mask. The doctor shook his head and said, "No!"
医生解释：“年纪大了，容易得这个病（肺炎）。
"The doctor explains:" Old age, easy to get this disease (pneumonia).
”这是乡镇防疫医疗资源短缺的一个截面。
This is a cross-section of the shortage of medical resources for township epidemic prevention.
镇医院公共卫生科主任介绍，1月23日统计，从1月1日起，全镇从武汉返乡的人员有370余人，24日还有所增加，“估计三四百人”。
From January 1, there were 370 returning home from Wuhan, an increase of "an estimated three to four hundred people," said the director of public health at the township hospital.
每天下午4点前，她都需要把全镇名单再上报至县里。
Every day before 4 pm, she needs to report the whole town back to the county.
这位主任说，目前镇医院口罩等医疗物资紧缺，“医生护士都不够发”，虽已报告给县疾控中心，但还没有物资下来。
The director said there is a shortage of medical supplies, such as face masks, "doctors and nurses are not enough", although reported to the county CDC, but has not come down.
1月24日下午三点多，镇医院院长从县里采购完物资回来，但没能采集到足量口罩，只在县城一个药房买到了一部分“五颜六色”的非医用口罩。
January 24 more than 3 p.m., the director of the town hospital from the county to purchase supplies back, but was unable to gather enough masks, only a county pharmacy bought a part of the "multicolored" non-medical masks.
一个令人担忧的细节是，截至1月24日晚，该镇下属17个行政村中，所有直接与武汉返乡人员接触的村医均无口罩。
A worrying detail is that, as of the night of 24 January, none of the village doctors in the town's 17 administrative villages were in direct contact with Wuhan returnees.
冯江说，在村医与镇医院联系的微信群中，有几个村医向院长索要口罩：“怎么说也得给我们村医一人一个吧？”院长没有回复。
Feng Jiang said that in the village doctor and the town hospital contact micro-letter group, several village doctors asked the dean to ask for masks: "After all, we have to give a village doctor?" The dean did not reply.
冯江告诉南方周末记者，镇医院的培训用课件讲了疑似症状、防控措施，但未下发任何物资。
Feng Jiang told Southern Weekend reporter that the town hospital training with courseware told suspected symptoms, prevention and control measures, but did not issue any materials.
他没有消毒液，没有口罩，也没有水银体温计，只有一个红外线测温仪，还是自己一年多前在电商平台购买的。
He had no disinfectant, no mask, no mercury thermometer, only an infrared thermometer, or his own electric business platform more than a year ago.
“平时根本没有这些物资做储备，现在到非常时期，哪里来得及。
"There is no such thing as a reserve at all in peacetime, and there is no time for it now.
”农村防疫还有其他潜在风险。
There are other potential risks to rural immunization.
黄冈是第二个封城的湖北城市，陈菲的老家在黄冈代管市麻城的一个村。
Huanggang is the second closed city of Hubei City, and Chen Fei's hometown is in Huanggang escrow in a village of Massachusetts.
1月24日，年三十的早晨，她从麻城市区上高速，准备回奶奶家拜年。
On January 24, on the morning of her thirtieth anniversary, she was going back to her grandmother's house on a high speed from Massachusetts.
她看到，出高速的地方，麻城红十字会的人身着白色防护服，在给每辆进麻城市区的车做检查，但出城进村的车子却无需经过任何检查。
She saw the Red Cross wearing white protective clothing at high speed, checking every car entering the Massachusetts area, but cars entering the village outside the city did not have to go through any checks.
随着冯江所在的村子宣传升级，城里的真假封路消息不断传来。
With the promotion of Feng Jiang's village, news of the city's true and false road closures continued to come.
大年初一早上，前一夜鞭炮声还不断的村庄一片寂静。
On the morning of New Year's Day, the village was still silent the night before.
村民陆续接到拜年电话，并互相交流着肺炎疫情及其带来的交通影响：“高速路封了吗”“省道还能走吗”“班车还在跑吗”。
Villagers have been receiving calls for the Lunar New Year and are talking to each other about the pneumonia epidemic and its traffic impact. Is the expressway closed
不多久，村干部家的车来了，在泥泞的土路上来回碾过车辙，后备箱音响循环播放：“今年春节不聚餐不拜年不走亲访友，大家各回各家，静待春暖花开。
Before long, the village cadre's car came and ran the ruts back and forth on the muddy dirt road, the trunk sound cycle playing: "This Spring Festival does not visit relatives and friends, we go back home, waiting for the spring.
”（应受访对象要求，冯江、陈忱为化名）其他人都在看：。
At the request of those interviewed, Feng Jiang and Chen Zheng are aliases.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
迟到的农村防疫：1个鄂西村医，44名武汉返乡人，来不及测的体温。
The late rural epidemic prevention: a Huxi village doctor, 44 Wuhan returnees, too late to measure the body temperature.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "迟到的农村防疫：1个鄂西村医，44名武汉返乡人，来不及测的体温";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Late rural immunization: A Huxi village doctor, 44 Wuhan returnees, with no time to measure & quot;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
