人陷百步亭：万人家宴后的 1 个月。
People Trapped in Pavilion: A month after a ten thousand home parties.
晓恺 婉莹。
Xiaokai Wan Ying.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
在武汉乃至全国，百步亭社区都是标杆式的存在。
In Wuhan and even in the whole country, the hundred-step pavilion community is the existence of the pole.
社区位于湖北武汉的江岸区，由 11 个小区组成，常住人口 13 万。
Located in the Jiangan district of Wuhan, Hubei Province, the community consists of 11 small districts with a resident population of 130,000.
百步亭分为安居苑、百合苑、现代城、景兰苑、悦秀苑、幸福时代等 11 个小区。
The Pavilion is divided into 11 small districts such as Ngai Nga Court, Lilie Court, Modern City, King Lan Court, Yueh Xiu Court, Happy Age, etc.
图片来源：百度地图截图2020 年 1 月 18 日，也就是钟南山院士连线央视时明确新型冠状肺炎「人传人」的前两天，百步亭社区举办了一场万人家宴。
Picture: Baidu map screenshot January 18, 2020, when the academician Zhong Nan Shan CCTV confirmed the new coronary pneumonia "person-to-person" two days before the community held a 10,000-person dinner.
据《楚天都市报》 19 日的报道：「社区居民端出 13866 道菜品，4 万多个家庭欢聚一堂。
"More than 40,000 families gathered after 13,866 dishes were served," Chu Tian Metropolis Daily reported on the 19th.
」《楚天都市报》相关报道图片来源：网络截图彼时，疫情的阴影已笼罩在武汉上空。
2007-9-25 21: 48 The shadow of the outbreak was already hanging over Wuhan when the network captured the scene.
这场举办至 20 届、曾是社区对外名片的「万人家宴」，因为人群聚集的缘故，让百步亭社区成了舆论的焦点。
The event, which lasted until the 20th session and was a community business card, focused public opinion on the Bumpting community because of the crowds gathering.
1 月 23 日，万家宴结束第 5 天，武汉宣布封城。
January 23, the end of the Wan family banquet 5 days, Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
2 月 4 日，万家宴结束第 16 天，《经济观察报》一则新闻称，百步亭社区下的一小区「55 栋楼里，33 栋出现发热病人」；2 月 5 日财新也刊发消息称，武汉百步亭社区多个门栋现发热患者。
On February 4, the end of the feast day 16, the Economic Observer newspaper reported that a small community under the Baebu Pavilion community "55 buildings, 33 fever patients," the February 5 financial news also published news, Wuhan Baibuting community a number of people are febrile patients.
百步亭再次被推上风口浪尖。
The Hundred Steps Pavilion was pushed to the wind again.
「偶尔治愈」找到几位在百步亭社区居住生活的居民，梳理了他们的生活轨迹以及现在所面临的问题，试图展现疫情阴影下，这座标杆社区中的人间百态。
"Occasional Healing" found several residents living in the Bumpting community, combing their lives and the problems they now face, trying to show the human face of the community under the shadow of the epidemic.
流言与家宴章宁今年 60 岁，自从 2003 年搬到百步亭安居苑，过去每年都会参加社区的万人家宴，还要争取拿奖。
Zhang Ning, 60, moved to Bumbuting House in 2003 and used to attend community banquets and win prizes every year.
唯独今年没有参加，因为她信佛了。
Only this year she did not attend because she believed in Buddha.
过去一整年，章宁都在北方做义工。
For the past year, Zhang Ning has volunteered in the north.
2019 年 12 月 30 日，章宁接到了弟弟离世的消息，赶回武汉。
On December 30, 2019, Zhang Ning received the news of the death of his brother, rushed back to Wuhan.
当天，一些武汉人的微信朋友圈，开始流传几位医生提示可能有 SARS 病毒的截图。
On the same day, some Wuhan micro-letter circle of friends, began circulating several doctors suggested that there may be a screenshot of the SARS virus.
有相关的消息称，武汉市卫健委医政医管处内部通知称「武汉出现不明原因肺炎」，且与华南海鲜批发市场有关。
According to relevant information, Wuhan Health Commission Medical and Medical Department internal notice that "Wuhan has an unidentified cause of pneumonia," and related to the South China seafood wholesale market.
在百步亭现代城居住已有 10 年的王齐，正是这天，注意到了相关传言。
It was on this day that Wang Qi, who had lived in the modern city of Bumpting for 10 years, took notice of the relevant rumors.
跨年那晚，王齐与同事在华南海鲜批发市场不远的地方聚餐。
On New Year's Eve, Wang Qi and his colleagues gathered at a seafood wholesale market not far from South China.
他还与同事讨论，如果 SARS 再来一次，他们所在校外培训行业会遭受重击。
He also discussed with colleagues that if SARS were to happen again, the out-of-school training industry would suffer.
1 月 1 日，「平安武汉」发布微博称 8 名散布谣言者被依法处理。
On January 1, Ping An Wuhan issued a microblog saying that eight people who spread rumors were dealt with according to the law.
王齐没有接收到教委停课的通知，大家依然正常上班。
Wang Qi did not receive notice of the school suspension, everyone is still normal work.
1 月 18 日，百步亭举办了第 20 届「万人家宴」。
On January 18, the Bumper Pavilion held its 20th Family Dinner.
当天，家住百步亭景兰苑柳莲的婆婆去参加了。
On that day, the mother-in-law of Yu Lian, who lives in Jinglang Park, participated.
柳莲一家在百步亭景兰苑居住了有 5 年。
The Liulian family has lived in Jinglanyuan Garden for 5 years.
因为流感，2019 年整个 12 月柳莲都没让孩子去上幼儿园。
Because of the flu, Liu Lin did not send her children to kindergarten throughout December 2019.
1 月，她也听闻到有不明原因肺炎的消息，索性就让孩子一直在家里。
In January, she also heard news of pneumonia for unknown reasons, simply let the child stay at home.
因为在家带停课的小孩，也担心人群聚集感染流感，万家宴那天婆婆拿着一次性的碗盛了点菜品，便回家了。
The mother-in-law went home with a disposable bowl of food on the day of the feast, fearing the crowds would gather to catch the flu.
食用之前，认真洗了手。
Wash your hands carefully before eating.
柳莲说，「幸亏那天是带回来吃的。
"Luckily," she said, "it was brought back to eat that day.
」1 月 19 日，王齐下班回家，在学校门口的药店看见有卖口罩，但发现快卖光了。
On January 19, Wang Qi came home from work. He saw a mask selling at the school pharmacy, but found it was almost sold out.
店家解释说已经在进货，王齐就和同事说先备一点，以防万一。
Shop explained that it was already in stock, Wang Qi and his colleagues said to prepare a little, just in case.
两人也没多买，觉得两包足矣。
Two people did not buy more, think two packs is enough.
1 月 20 日，武汉市卫健委通报 2 日内共计 136 例新增确诊病例；同日晚上，钟南山院士在接受央视连线时明确表示新型冠状病毒「人传人」。
On January 20, Wuhan Health Commission notified a total of 136 new confirmed cases within two days. On the same night, when receiving CCTV cable, academician Zhong Nan Shan made it clear that the new coronavirus "person-to-person".
王齐开始意识到事情严重起来，但发现已经买不到口罩了。
Wang Qi began to realize the seriousness of the matter, but found that has not been able to buy masks.
昨天买的两包口罩显然不够用，于是，他通过孩子在江西的小姨购买到了一袋 N95 口罩寄过来；又托同学，从南京寄来 5 包医用外科口罩。
The two face masks he bought yesterday were clearly insufficient, so he bought a bag of N95 masks from his aunt in Jiangxi and sent them by mail from Nanjing.
1 月 21 日，武汉市卫健委通报 15 例医护感染；湖北省卫健委通报，当日省内新增确诊病例 72 例。
On January 21, Wuhan city health committee reported 15 cases of medical and health care infection, Hubei Wei Health Commission informed that the province on the same day a new confirmed 72 cases.
这天，柳莲按照往常去日用品店上班，店里突然来了很多人买口罩，「之前也有人买，断断续续的，到了 21 号开始有人一次性买了二三十包。
On this day, Liulian went to work as usual, the store suddenly came a lot of people to buy masks, "before someone bought, intermittent, by the 21st began to buy a one-time 20 or 30 package.
」1 月 22 日，湖北省启动突发公共事件二级应急响应。
On January 22, Hubei province launched a secondary emergency response to a public emergency.
1 月 23 日，武汉自上午 10 时封城。
Wuhan was closed at 10 a.m. on January 23.
但柳莲没有接到停班通知，照旧去了店里。
But Liu Lin did not receive the suspension notice, went to the store as usual.
此时，店里的口罩已经全部售罄，有人买完了店里剩下的所有喷壶，说是用于装酒精消毒。
At this point, the store has sold out of masks, someone bought all the remaining spray bottle, said to be used to disinfect alcohol.
下午，柳莲工作的门店歇业。
In the afternoon, the store where Liu Lin worked closed down.
社区不设防2 月 10 日，湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，原武汉市委书记马国强称，武汉开展了全民健康普查，人数排查的百分比达到了99%。
Wuhan conducted a national health survey, with 99 percent of the population screened, said Ma Guoqiang, the former Wuhan party secretary, at a news conference to prevent and control the outbreak of a new coronavirus infection.
2 月 13 日，百步亭社区世博园的余恬终于接到第一个社区打来的体温筛查电话。
Feb. 13, Bumbuting community Expo Park Yu Tian finally received the first community temperature screening phone call.
她说，「我终于不是那个 1% 了」。
"I'm not the 1 percent," she says.
家住景兰苑的柳莲，之前也没有接到过体温筛查电话。
Liulian, who lives in Jing Lan Yuan, has not received a temperature screening phone before.
直到 2 月 15 日，物业工作人员通过按楼下的门铃，询问柳莲一家「家里有几个人」「体温是否正常」。
Until February 15, property staff by ringing the doorbell downstairs, asked the Liulian family "a few people in the family temperature is normal."
相比迟来的电话，余恬所在的楼栋很早被贴上「发热门栋」了。
Compared with the belated phone call, Yu Tian's building building is very early affixed "hot door door."
封城之后，余恬响应政府号召，很少出门，她甚至不知道是什么时候贴上的。
After the closure of the city, Yu Tian responded to the Government's call, rarely go out, she did not even know when it was posted.
余恬小区楼道门上张贴的发热门栋图片来源：受访者提供通过观察社区工作人员上门送菜与消杀的轨迹，余恬确定了确诊的病人离自己家难以想象地近。
Yu Tian community hall door posted on the heating door picture source: Interviewees through the observation of community workers door-to-door food and sterilization track, Yu Tian confirmed that the diagnosed patients from their homes unthinkably close.
她说，「邻居被接走的时候，是 2 月 9 号晚上十点多。
"When the neighbors were picked up, it was more than 10 p. m., February 9," she said.
」患者接走后，「发热门栋」的标识还是没有撤下，她怀疑自己这栋楼还有其他发热病人。
"After the patient was taken away, the sign for the" hot door "remained intact, and she suspected that she had other fever patients in the building.
余恬自家住在百步亭集团下的另外一个社区，为了方便照顾老人，封城前带着孩子搬到了一站之外的世博园的父母家。
Yu Tian family lives in another community under the Bumbuting Group, in order to facilitate the care of the elderly, the city with their children moved to a station outside the World Expo Garden parents' home.
余恬表示，不管是父母所在的世博园，还是自己家的小区，都没有公布明确发热门栋所在的位置，也没有公布全小区确诊与疑似患者的数量以及他们处置方式。
Yu Tian said, whether the parents of the World Expo Garden, or their own home, did not disclose the location of a clear fever door, or the number of diagnosis and suspected patients and their disposal methods.
据她介绍，公公婆婆家所住的小区在武昌，每天都会透明地公布小区内疫情状况。
According to her, her father-in-law's community in Wuchang, every day will be transparent about the situation in the small area.
「他们小区会每天公布几网格几网格有疑似患者，已经居家隔离；几网格几网格有多少确诊患者， 已经送去方舱或者哪个医院治疗，很规范。
"The community will publish daily a few grids of suspected patients, already isolated at home; it is standard that a few grids of diagnosed patients have been sent to the square cabin or hospital for treatment.
」她说，「不用说具体哪一个门户号，但至少让大家心里有个数。
"She said," I don't need to mention any specific portal number, but at least let people have a number in mind.
」百步亭现代城的王齐也面临了相同的情况，社区至今也没有公布到底有多少确诊患者，物业也没有公示确诊患者所在网格。
The same is true for Wang Qi of the 100-foot-pavilion Modern City, where the community has yet to disclose exactly how many confirmed patients are and where the property is located.
尽管业主们每天在群中强烈要求，但物业方一直拒不公开。
Although the owners of the group every day in the strong demand, but the property has refused to disclose.
他注意到，小区里的发热门栋标注，也经历了从无到有，再到无的过程。
He noted that the community of hot door tagging, but also experienced from scratch, and then no process.
他从楼上看到的救护车来了 4 趟。
The ambulance he saw upstairs came four times.
另外，王齐在微博「肺炎患者求助」的「超级话题」下，看到了 3 个自己小区的患者发出求助，希望能尽快确诊，落实医院床位。
In addition, under the "Super Topic" of Weibo "Pneumonia Patients," Wang saw three patients from their own community asking for help to confirm the hospital bed as soon as possible.
王齐拍到的救护车图片来源：受访者供图除此之外，小区进出管理也很松散。
Ambulance photos taken by Wang Qi: interviewees for the map in addition to the community access control is also very loose.
封城以后，王齐和其他业主强烈要求小区物业对进出人员进行登记与体温测量。
After the closure of the city, Wang Qi and other owners urged the residential property to enter and leave the registration and temperature measurement.
1 月 31 日，现代城的物业拍了测量体温的照片发在了业主群里；但据其他业主反馈，没有实现严格进出登记。
On January 31, Hyundai's property took photos of body temperature and sent them to the owners' group, but feedback from other owners showed no sign-up.
现代城小区的紧急通知图片来源：受访者供图此后，王齐在初八（2 月 1 日），正月十四（2 月 7 日）都有出入过小区，但都没有遇到工作人员对自己测量体温或是人员登记。
2007-9-24 16: 16 [hide] 2007-9-25 21: 55 [hide] Wang Qi has been in the neighborhood since February 1, January 14 (February 7), but has not encountered staff to take their own temperature or personnel registration.
体温测量时有时无状态，一直延续到 2 月 13 日，在武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部明确住宅小区封闭管理措施的前一天，百步亭下的现代城才开始严格管控进出。
Thermography was patchy until Feb. 13, a day before Wuhan's Xinguan Pneumonia Command made it clear that the city's modern city under the 100-foot pavilion was under strict control.
这天，武汉市确诊病例 35991 例，重症 7492 例，距离封城已经过去 22 天。
On that day, Wuhan city confirmed 35991 cases, 7492 severe cases, 22 days after the closure of the city.
居民之困封城以来，百步亭社区居民的日常生活，开始变得困难。
Since the closure of the city, the daily life of the residents of the Bumpting community has become difficult.
家里菜吃完的第二天，住在百步亭安居苑肖兰的老公会在早上 8 点从家里出发，到离家不远的中百超市买菜。
On the second day of the meal, Shaolan's husband, who lives in Bubu Ting Garden, leaves home at 8: 00 a.m. to buy food at a supermarket not far from home.
刚开始的时候，大家簇拥挤成一团。
At the beginning, people crowded into each other.
后来，他们才在排队的时候相隔 1 米左右的距离。
It was only later that they were about a metre apart in line.
8 点出门，12 点回家，老公手提的袋子里也仅仅抢到了剩下的排骨。
Out at 8 o'clock, home at 12 o'clock, my husband in the bag only snatched the rest of the ribs.
「排队要排两三个小时」。
"Stand in line for two or three hours."
肖兰说。
said Schoran.
每天早上 8 点，网络订购平台也会开启一波蔬菜的抢购。
Every morning at 8: 00 am, online ordering platforms can also kick-start a scramble for vegetables.
「一分钟就抢完了。
"One minute is all gone.
」肖兰说。
"said Schoran.
为了缓解买菜困难的问题，社区志愿者开始自发组织团购订菜，让送菜员在固定的时间段和地点给大家送菜。
To ease the problem of buying vegetables, community volunteers began to organize groups to order vegetables, allowing the waiters to deliver food at a fixed time and place.
后来，因为社区太大，送菜员觉得不合算，又担心感染疾病，事情不了了之。
Later, because the community is too big, the food delivery staff feel uneconomical, and worried about contracting diseases, the matter is over.
直到 2 月 16 日，肖兰居住的安居苑开始组织统一的团购。
Until February 16, Shaolin's residential housing estate began to organize a unified group purchase.
相较于买菜，更让柳莲一家头疼的是，她买不到药了。
Compared to the purchase of vegetables, the willow family headache is that she can not buy medicine.
柳莲和婆婆都是二型糖尿病患者。
Liu Lin and her mother-in-law are both type 2 diabetics.
按照往常，柳莲一天需要用注射 3 次胰岛素。
As usual, Liu Lin needs to be injected with insulin three times a day.
她所用那一款胰岛素，只有在武汉的心连心大药房和武汉中心医院可以开到。
The insulin she uses is only available at the Heart to Heart pharmacy in Wuhan and Wuhan Central Hospital.
心连心药店的店长告诉她，因为封路，交通不便，他们也进不了货。
The head of Xinlianxin drugstore told her that they could not get in because of the road closures and the lack of transportation.
柳莲又跑了附近的 5 家药房，全部扑了空。
Liu Lin ran to the nearby five pharmacies, all emptied.
柳莲打电话到武汉中心医院询问情况，被告知因为疫情，她家附近的后湖院区已经封了；又由于封城，她也无法去到江汉路的院区。
Liu Lian called Wuhan Central Hospital to inquire about the situation, was told that because of the outbreak, her home near the Houhu district has been sealed; due to the closure of the city, she was also unable to go to the Jianghan Road courtyard.
并且，接电话的医生建议，除了重症，不要来医院，去医院也不一定开到药。
Also, the doctor who answered the phone advised not to come to the hospital except for serious illness, which might not always be prescribed.
柳莲甚至还托了自己认识的一个护士，希望从医院买点出来，依然不行。
Liu Lin even entrusted a nurse he knew, hoping to buy some from the hospital, but still could not.
柳莲的胰岛素图片来源：受访者供图上一次囤药是在除夕前。
Source: The last time people hoarded drugs was before New Year's Eve.
现在，她只能通过白天吃降糖药，控制住嘴，把一天三次的胰岛素注射改为 1 次来控制血糖，原本每天注射 70 单位的量，降低到 30 单位，还可以撑一段时间。
Now, she can only control her blood sugar by taking a sugar pill during the day, controlling her mouth, changing her insulin injection three times a day to control her blood sugar.
柳莲婆婆的药物短缺，显得更严重。
The shortage of medicine for mother-in-law Liu Lin is even more serious.
虽然她的药在大多数药店都有卖，但老人家都是一支两支地购买，上一回出门已经买不到药了，就把店里仅有的 2 盒降糖药带了回来。
Although her drugs were sold at most pharmacies, the elderly were buying them one by one. The last time I went out, I couldn't buy any medicine, so I brought back the only two boxes of antidiabetic drugs I had.
现在，婆婆的胰岛素只剩下一支 300 单位的胰岛素，而婆婆一天的胰岛素原本要注射 60 单位，算起来只够 5 天。
Now, her mother-in-law has only 300 units of insulin left, while her mother-in-law would have injected 60 units a day, which would have only lasted five days.
余恬一家面临相同的困境。
Yu Tian family faces the same dilemma.
她父母都是慢性病患者，高血压、糖尿病、冠心病有十几年了。
Her parents are chronically ill and have had high blood pressure, diabetes and coronary heart disease for more than a decade.
除了常规的慢性病药物，余恬的母亲 2019 年 11 月刚做完眼睛手术，每天需要大量药物维持。
In addition to conventional chronic medicine, Yu Tian's mother just finished eye surgery in November 2019, daily need a lot of medication maintenance.
现在母亲的药，只够一天的量了。
Now my mother has enough medicine for only one day.
从 2 月 14 日起，武汉小区开始实行封闭式管理。
From February 14, the Wuhan community began to implement closed management.
社区人员见余恬需要买的药太复杂，让她带上病历、身份证可以外出自行购买。
Community personnel see Yu Tian need to buy drugs too complex, let her take medical records, identity cards can go out to buy their own.
即便可以出小区，也无济于事。
Even if you can get out of the neighborhood, it won't help.
她说，「现在药品非常紧张，都不知道到哪里买。
"Medicines are so tight right now that I don't know where to buy them," she said.
」抱团取暖章宁自从封城，就没有出过百步亭安居苑，因为没有口罩。
Zhang Ning had not been outside the 100-foot pavilion since the closure of the city because there were no masks.
大年三十，章宁收到女儿发来的消息，说武汉封城了，叮嘱她买一些吃的。
Year 30, Zhang Ning received the daughter of the message that Wuhan closed the city, told her to buy some food.
当时章宁还没有意识到疫情的严重，只买了 2 颗土豆，一些大白菜和芹菜。
Zhang Ning didn't realize the severity of the outbreak. He bought only two potatoes, some cabbage and celery.
这些菜，勉强吃到了大年初七。
These dishes were barely eaten until the seventh day of the New Year.
女儿和公婆住在外边小区，打电话来说要送吃的。
Daughter and mother-in-law live outside in the neighborhood, calling to say they want food.
章宁担心女儿感染，便骗她有的吃，让她不要过来。
Zhang Ning worried about the infection of her daughter, so she lied to eat, let her not to come.
邻居知道章宁一个人住，又没有口罩，便主动问她还有没有菜；得知情况后，直接在微信团了两份菜，又买了两包挂面。
The neighbor knew that Zhang Ning lived alone and did not have a mask, so he asked her if she had any dishes.
菜品到货已经是晚上 12 点了，邻居一起拿回来，直接送到了章宁家门口，也没要钱。
The food has arrived at 12: 00 pm, neighbors together to take back, directly to Zhang Ning's door, also did not ask for money.
章宁说，「要不是我的邻居年轻人帮我买菜，我可能会饿死了，家里没吃的，不能出去，也不敢出去。
"If it hadn't been for my neighbor's young people, I would have starved to death. I would not have eaten at home, I would not have gone out or dared to go out," Zhang said.
」「饿死了是夸张，没菜吃是真的。
"" It's an exaggeration to starve. It's true there's no food.
」她补充。
"she added.
团菜后，有物业工作人员有致电联系她是否有困难，她想着已经解决了，便没有再提。
After the tour, there is a real estate staff called to contact her if there is any difficulty, she thought that has been resolved, did not mention.
章宁一直有爱藏东西的习惯，没有口罩就出不了门，就在家里翻箱倒柜，终于在一团报纸中找到了一个几年前的纱布口罩和一次性口罩。
Zhang Ning has always loved to hide things, no mask out of the door, just rummaged in the home, finally found a few years ago in a newspaper gauze mask and disposable mask.
出门倒垃圾的时候，她就把两个口罩摞起来一起用。
As she went out to take out the garbage, she stacked two masks together.
回家后，就再把两个口罩挂在阳台上通风，下回接着用。
When you get home, hang two more masks on the balcony for ventilation, and use them again the next time.
现代城的王齐家里食物与物资还算充足，但通过群聊得知，社区中有些老人没法解决生活物资问题，于是与其他业主组了一些团购群。
The modern city Wang Qi family food and supplies are adequate, but through group chat, some elderly people in the community can not solve the material problems, and formed a number of groups with other owners.
在 2 月 1 日第一次组织团购酒精后，现代城的业主各自通过不同渠道寻找货源，一起做买菜的团购，又在不同楼栋中选出负责人，负责落实菜品的分发。
After organizing the first group purchase of alcohol on February 1, the owners of the modern city looked for supplies through different channels, made group purchases together, and selected responsible persons in different buildings to carry out the distribution of the dishes.
「如果谁有一个渠道可以买菜了，就发到团购的群里面去。
"If someone has a channel to buy food, send it to the group.
楼栋长就负责收集通知以及收款，等菜品到了再通知居民分批次下楼取菜。
The building director is responsible for the collection of notifications and receipts, and so on dishes to inform the residents to sub-batch down to pick up vegetables.
」现代城二区菜品和分发图片来源：受访者供图王齐称，现代城的菜品团购自始至终都是业主在负责，他们多次致电物业与居委会，希望能由他们出面来组织，能够在货源谈判上更方便一些。
2007-9-24 16: 16 2007-9-19 19: 48: 00 Modern City 2 Food Products and Distribution Pictures Source: Interviewees told Tu Wang Qi that the owners of modern city food groups were in charge from beginning to end. They called the Property and Neighbourhood Committees several times in the hope that they would be able to organize them and make it easier to negotiate the supplies.
「菜品送到后，供货商一丢就走了，也都是靠业主自己在楼下守着。
"Once the food was delivered, the supplier left, relying on the owner himself to keep watch downstairs.
」他说，「百步亭，人家都有点怕。
"said he." People are afraid of the pavilions.
」王齐和业主之间自发打印出来纸张，贴在电梯上，以区别发热电梯与非发热电梯，减少交叉感染的风险。
"Wang and the owner spontaneously printed out the paper and put it on the elevator to distinguish between the hot and non-hot elevators and to reduce the risk of cross-infection.
业主也曾和物业提议过，但始终无人执行，只能自己动手。
Owners have also proposed to the property, but has never been implemented, can only do it themselves.
2 月 16 日，封城第 25 天，现代城终于由居委会出面开始组织菜品团购问题。
Feb. 16, 25 days after the closure of the city, the modern city by the neighborhood finally began to organize the problem of food group purchase.
万家宴 1 个月2 月 18 日，距离湖北省启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应过去 26 天，距离武汉封城过去 27 天，距离万家宴过去了整好 1 个月，距离王齐第一次听说不明病毒，已经 50 天。
Wanjiabanquet 1 month February 18, Hubei Province to launch a major public health emergency response last 26 days, the past 27 days from the closure of Wuhan, a month away from the 10,000 dinner, Wang Qi first heard about the unknown virus, 50 days.
王齐不清楚自己的校外培训公司是否能够撑到疫情结束。
Wang is not sure whether his out-of-school training company will survive the outbreak.
目前，王齐和同事们每天都认真备课，尽量把教学搬到线上，完成之前允诺学生的教学课时。
At present, Wang Qi and his colleagues prepare classes carefully every day, moving teaching to the line as much as possible, and completing the teaching hours promised to students before.
资金是最大的问题。
Funding is the biggest problem.
现在账上的钱还够两个月，王齐和几个股东开始商量着筹款，尽力维持到复工。
With enough money on his books for two months, Wang and several shareholders began to discuss fund-raising, trying to stay on the job.
章宁摆脱了没有口罩的局面，同学给她寄的口罩终于到了。
Zhang Ning got rid of the situation without a mask, her classmates sent her a mask finally arrived.
自己留下一些后，她把口罩分了一些给邻居与物业的工作人员。
After leaving some on her own, she divided the mask among neighbors and property workers.
章宁收到的口罩图片来源：受访者供图2 月 12 号，余恬下楼拿快递，听到隔壁栋里有人隔着窗户在嚎叫。
Zhang Ning received photos of masks: interviewees for February 12, Yu Tian downstairs to get express, heard someone howling through the window next door.
「物业都很紧张，后来发现没有什么大事。
"The property was very tense and later it turned out nothing serious.
就是人关久了，想要发泄一下。
It's a long time. I want to vent it.
」「如果可以，我也想跟着叫两声。
"" I'd like to scream twice if I could.
」她又补充。
"she added.
余恬老公没能赶回武汉，留守在湖北的另一座城市隔离。
Yu Tian husband did not return to Wuhan, left behind in Hubei another city isolation.
她说，希望疫情早点结束，和老公团聚，那时，能买到条新鲜的鱼，一家人吃顿团圆饭。
She said she hoped the outbreak would end soon and that she would be able to buy a fresh fish and a family dinner.
（为保护受访者隐私，柳莲、章宁、王齐、肖兰、余恬系化名）撰文：晓恺、婉莹责编：于陆封面图来源：2017 年万家宴，受访者提供参考文献：1.百步一亭 温馨家园.长江网 http ://img.cjn.cn/cjnbbt/bbtjs.htm2.社区四万余家庭共吃团年饭.楚天都市报http://hb.ifeng.com/a/20200119/8066739_0.shtml3.武汉明确住宅小区封闭管理措施：小区保留一个出入口.中国青年报https://baijiahao.baidu.com/s?id=1658561001904393844&wfr=spider&for=pc4.国家民委关于命名第五批全国民族团结进步创建示范区（单位）的决定http://www.seac.gov.cn/seac/xxgk/201712/1072666.shtml5. 「万家宴」社区百步亭确诊多例新冠肺炎 一小区55栋楼中33栋有发热病人.经济观察网.https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/8xlcJccSb9x02som5zM9bg6.湖北省武汉市江岸区百步亭社区中国社区网http://hb.cncn.org.cn/wuhan/baibuting/intro.html7.武汉百步亭社区多个门栋现发热患者 中老年人为主.财新 http://china.caixin.com/2020-02-05/101511619.html—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
http: / / hb.cncn.org.cn / s / wuhan / baixin.com / s? id = 1658561001904393844 & amp; pc4. Wuhan Heng.cjn.com / cjnbbt / bbtjs.html.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
人陷百步亭：万人家宴后的 1 个月。
People Trapped in Pavilion: A month after a ten thousand home parties.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "人陷百步亭：万人家宴后的 1 个月";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a month after a ten thousand house party;;
var msg_desc = "疫情阴影下，标杆社区的人间百态";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the shadow of the epidemic.
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
