武昌医院院长刘智明病逝  至少已有9位医护因新冠殉职。
Director of Wuchang Hospital Liu Zhiming has died at least nine medical personnel died in the new crown.
健闻王晨。
Good news Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
我就想站在这里，站在第一线，没有为什么。
I just want to stand here, on the front line, without why.
我觉得，我还可以，我能扛住压力，尽快尽多的救治更多的人、更多的小人物。
I think, I can still, I can withstand the pressure, as soon as possible to treat as many people, more small people.
2月18日上午10:30左右，武汉武昌医院院长、神经外科专家刘智明因新冠肺炎抢救无效，在同济医院中法新城院区去世。
At around 10: 30 a.m. on February 18, Liu Zhiming, director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital and an expert in neurosurgery, died at Tongji Hospital in the French-Xincheng hospital after failing to rescue him.
2月17日深夜，社交网络传出刘智明病危的消息。
Late at night on Feb. 17, news of Liu's death came from social networks.
知情人士说，刘智明1月27日左右开始开始发烧，第二天做肺部CT时，发现双肺全白，已是重症状态，他马上入住武昌医院的ICU病房。
People familiar with the matter said that Liu began to have a fever around January 27, the next day when the lung CT, found that both lungs are all white, is a severe state, he immediately checked into Wuchang Hospital ICU Ward.
20多天的治疗中，情况一度好转，但2月14日病情突然恶化，紧急转入同济医院中法新城院区。
The situation improved after more than 20 days of treatment, but on 14 February the condition suddenly deteriorated and he was transferred urgently to the French-Xincheng wing of Tongji Hospital.
到了昨天晚上，病情已处于危急中，瞳孔散大。
By last night, he was in a critical condition with dilated pupils.
医护人员不愿意放弃，依旧奋力抢救，上了ECMO，但最终无力回天。
Medical staff are reluctant to give up, still struggling to rescue, on ECMO, but ultimately powerless to return to the sky.
刘智明是第一位在新冠疫情中去世的在职院长，也是已知的第9位殉职的医护人员。
Liu Zhiming was the first serving dean to die in the New Crown Epidemic and the ninth known to have lost his life in the line of duty.
2月14日，国家卫健委副主任曾益新在新闻发布会上表示，截止到2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，占到全国确诊病例的3.8%，其中湖北省有1502人，武汉1102人。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, accounting for 3.8 percent of the confirmed cases nationwide, including 1502 in Hubei province and 1,102 in Wuhan, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission, said at a press conference.
截至11日，确诊感染的医护人员中，有6人不幸去世，占全国死亡病例的0.4%。
As at 11 November, six of the health-care personnel diagnosed with the infection had died, accounting for 0.4 per cent of the country's deaths.
其中包括：武汉亚洲心脏病医院耳鼻喉科医生梁武东，1月25日去世；武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮，2月7日凌晨去世；知名移植专家、华中科技大学附属同济医院器官移植研究所林正斌教授，2月10日去世。
Among them: Dr. Liang Wudong, an ear, nose and throat doctor at Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital passed away on January 25; Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, died in the early hours of February 7; and Professor Lin Zhengbin, a renowned transplant specialist and organ transplant institute affiliated with Tongji Hospital, Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
在这之后，湖北省鄂州市中医医院前院长许德甫于2月13日去世；刘智明的同事、武昌医院护士柳帆于2月14日去世；刘智明是第9位。
Xu Defu, a former hospital director of Hubei Province's Huizhou Province, died on February 13, Liu Zhiming, a colleague of Liu Zhichang Hospital and a nurse from Wuchang Hospital, died on February 14. Liu Zhiming was ninth.
2003年SARS疫情中，医护人员伤亡严重，多家媒体都引用过一个数据：当时中国内地确诊病例5327人，医护人员占20%左右，死亡349人，医护人员占到了三分之一。
During the SARS epidemic in 2003, medical personnel suffered serious casualties, and a number of media sources quoted one figure: 5,327 cases were confirmed in mainland China at that time, with medical personnel accounting for about 20 per cent of the total, 349 deaths and one third of the total number of medical personnel.
如今，依然能找到其中33位逝者的名字。
Today, the names of 33 of those who died can still be found.
伤亡如此惨烈的一个重要原因，是疫情刚开始时，医护人员在没有做好足够防护措施时，就直接面对感染的患者，从而被大量感染。
An important reason for such tragic deaths and injuries is that, at the outset of the outbreak, health-care workers faced infected patients directly without adequate precautions, resulting in a large number of infections.
例如北京大学附属人民医院，2003年3-4月疫情公开前后一段时间，共93名医护人员被感染，不得不临时封院。
For example, at Peking University's affiliated People's Hospital, 93 medical workers were infected and had to be temporarily hospitalized during the period before and after the March-April 2003 outbreak.
17年过去，湖北特别是武汉的医护人员，再次面对类似的困境。
Seventeen years later, medical staff in Hubei, Wuhan in particular, faced similar difficulties again.
△ 图片来源：武昌医院微信公号防护不足，刘智明一感染即重症公开资料显示，刘智明生于1969年，湖北十堰人，1991年毕业于武汉大学医学院，擅长颅脑外伤、颅内肿瘤、脑血管病及椎管内病的诊断和治疗，特别擅长神经外科疾病手术治疗。
Liu Zhiming was born in 1969 in Shiyan, Hubei Province. He graduated from Wuhan University Medical School in 1991. He specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of craniocerebral trauma, intracranial tumors, cerebrovascular diseases and intravertebral diseases.
刘智明曾在武汉市第三医院担任副院长，是第三医院神经外科主任，学科带头人，是武汉神经外科领域最优秀的专家之一。
Liu Zhiming was a vice-dean of Wuhan Third Hospital, director of neurosurgery in the third hospital. He was one of the best experts in the field of neurosurgery.
几年前到武汉武昌医院担任院长。
A few years ago Wuhan Wuchang Hospital as president.
刘智明现为湖北中医药大学和江汉大学硕士研究生导师，2013年曾被武昌区委区政府授予“武昌英才”荣誉称号、2014年获“武汉市人民政府博士资助”人选、2015年获武汉市“十百千人才工程”人选。
Liu Zhiming is currently a master's degree supervisor at Hubei University of Traditional Chinese Medicine and Jianghan University. He was awarded the honorary title of "Wu Chang Talent" by the Wuchang District Government in 2013, a candidate for PhD funding from Wuhan Municipal People's Government in 2014 and a candidate for the "Ten Thousand Talent Project" in Wuhan City in 2015.
武昌医院2014年被原湖北省卫计委评定为三级综合医院，现有员工966人。
Wuchang Hospital was appraised by the former Hubei Provincial Health and Planning Commission as a level III general hospital in 2014, with 966 employees.
在这次武汉市应对新冠疫情中，是第一批七家定点医院中的一家。
Wuhan city in response to the new crown epidemic, is the first batch of seven designated hospitals.
1月21日医院接到征用通知，23号左右开始接收病人，开放的500张床位马上住满了病人——这也是医院住院病区的全部床位。
On January 21, the hospital received a notice of requisition and began accepting patients around the 23rd. The 500 beds opened were immediately filled with patients - the total number of beds in the hospital's inpatient section.
全院几百名医护人员，从院长到医生，全部来到抗疫一线，超负荷运转。
Hundreds of hospital staff, from deans to doctors, came to the frontline of the epidemic, overloaded operation.
作为最早期被征用的医院，都存在防护物资不够的问题，对新冠肺炎的认识也有限。
As the earliest hospitals were requisitioned, there were inadequate protective materials and limited knowledge of the new crown pneumonia.
一位和刘智明熟悉的医生说，当时宣传是轻症多，重症少，传播强度低于SARS，所以在防护措施上，主要启用二级防护，还未上升到三级。
A doctor familiar with Liu said that the propaganda at the time was light illness, few serious cases, transmission intensity is less than SARS, so the protection measures, mainly use secondary protection, not up to three.
刘智明就这样被感染，于1月27号左右开始发烧，由于一开始是重症，治疗过程非常麻烦。
Liu Zhiming was thus infected and began to develop a fever around January 27. Because of the severe illness at first, the treatment was very troublesome.
1月26号，空军军医大学医疗队进驻武昌医院重症监护病房，多次为刘智明进行会诊。
January 26, the Air Force Medical University medical team into the intensive care unit in Wuchang Hospital, Liu Zhiming for many consultations.
刘智明的病情一度好转，2月13号中午，他还跟朋友说艰难的20天渡过了，坚信会一天天好起来。
Liu Zhiming, whose condition had improved for a while, told his friends on February 13 that he had had 20 difficult days and was confident that he would get better every day.
但没想到，仅仅一天后，病情忽然加重，即使用上无创呼吸机，血氧饱和度也降低的很快，只剩插管最后一条路。
Unexpectedly, only a day later, the disease suddenly aggravated, that is, the use of non-invasive breathing machine, blood oxygen saturation also reduced quickly, only the last intubation road.
一位临床一线专家认为，插管是危重症病人最后的选择，而且一旦面临插管，病情逆转的可能性就很小。
Intubation is the last option for critically ill patients, according to a clinical frontline expert, and once it is intubated, it is unlikely to be reversed.
插管需要医护人员使用比三级防护更高级的负压防护服，需要上ECMO，武昌医院的重症监护室不具备这个条件。
Intubation requires medical staff to use a higher level of negative pressure protective clothing than tertiary protection, requiring ECMO, which is not available in the intensive care unit of Wuchang Hospital.
2月14号，刘智明被紧急转入同济医院中法新城院区，由北京协和医院重症医学团队接管，插管，上了ECMO，但还是抢救无效，于今天上午去世。
On February 14, Liu Zhiming was transferred to Tongji Hospital's French New Town Hospital. He was taken over by the intensive care team of Beijing Concorde Hospital.
他的好友兼多年同事，也是这次武汉抗击新冠肺炎疫情的定点医院之一的医生，谈及刘智明，感到非常惋惜和难过，在他印象中，刘智明是非常有能力，很和气的一个人。
His best friend and long-time colleague and doctor at one of Wuhan's designated hospitals for fighting the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, spoke of Liu Zhiming, whom he remembered as a very capable and amiable person.
在神经外科专业领域是湖北省最强的专家之一，他的离去，对湖北医疗界是一大损失。
In the field of neurosurgery, Hubei Province is one of the strongest experts, his departure, Hubei medical community is a big loss.
医生为什么成批量被感染？2月7日去世的武汉中心医院眼科医生李文亮，是较早接触到新冠肺炎患者并被感染的医生之一。
Wu Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital who passed away on February 7, is one of the doctors who first came into contact with patients with pneumonia in the New Crown.
2020年1月8日，李文亮接诊了一位82岁的女性患者，就诊疾病为急性闭角型青光眼。
On January 8, 2020, Li Wenliang attended an 82-year-old woman suffering from acute angle-closure glaucoma.
因为病人当时没有发热症状，他并没有采取防护措施。
As the patient had no fever at the time, he did not take protective measures.
第二天，该病人发烧，CT结果显示为“双肺磨玻璃样病变”。
The next day, the patient had a fever, and CT findings showed "two lungs grind glass-like lesions."
1月10日，李文亮开始咳嗽，11日开始发烧，此后一直生病，直到2月1日确诊，几天后便离开人世。
On January 10, Li Wenliang began to cough, 11 began to have a fever, since then has been ill, until February 1 diagnosis, a few days later died.
李文亮所在的武汉中心医院，是医护人员感染最严重的医院之一。
The Wuhan Central Hospital, where Li Wenliang is located, is one of the hospitals with the most serious infection among medical staff.
武汉中心医院主要有后湖和南京路两个院区，两者相距五六公里，其中后湖院区距离华南海鲜市场不到两公里，较早接触到了新冠肺炎病例。
Wuhan Central Hospital has two main hospital areas, Houhu and Nanjing Road, 56 kilometers apart, of which Houhu courtyard area is less than two kilometers away from the South China seafood market, earlier exposure to the new crown pneumonia.
据《中国新闻周刊》报道，该院职工达到新冠肺炎临床确诊标准的已有230多人，其中130人住院，100多人居家隔离，多位科主任与院领导都“中招”。
More than 230 of the hospital's staff have met the criteria for clinical diagnosis of pneumonia, 130 of them are hospitalized, more than 100 are isolated at home and many directors and hospital leaders have "won the lottery," the China News Weekly reported.
而最早公布有医护人员被感染的是钟南山，1月20日他接受采访时，说武汉有14个医务工作者被感染。
Zhong Nan Shan was the first to announce that medical staff had been infected. In an interview on January 20, he said 14 medical workers in Wuhan had been infected.
他们是在为一位患者做手术时被感染的，那时患者没有明显的呼吸道感染症状，手术时间是1月7日，和李文亮被感染的时间几乎同时。
They were infected during an operation on a patient who did not have obvious symptoms of respiratory infection and was operated on on January 7, almost at the same time as Li Wenliang was infected.
如果说早期医护人员大量被感染是因为没有意识到要防护，那疫情公开之后，则主要是物资不足。
If early health care workers were infected in large numbers because they were not aware of the need for protection, then when the outbreak became public, it was mainly lack of supplies.
封城之初，恐慌的人们涌到定点医院，“医疗挤兑”之下，医院不堪重负，防护物资严重不足，口罩、护目镜、防护服……春节假期之初，几乎整个武汉的医疗圈都在求援。
In the early days of the city, panic-stricken people rushed to designated hospitals, "run on medical care," hospitals are overwhelmed, seriously inadequate protective supplies, masks, goggles, protective clothing... at the beginning of the Spring Festival, almost the entire Wuhan medical community is asking for help.
协和医生Do先生的微博记录了当时的状况：物资严重缺乏的情况下，我们的战友连续八小时不吃不喝不上厕所，甚至有同事穿尿不湿上班，因为身上的防护服可能就是最后一件了，他们不舍得浪费，……除夕夜，微博里只有春晚的热搜，武汉市中心医院呼吸内科胡轶主任与大家一起依然战斗在一线，但没有鞋套了，脚上是黄色塑料袋包着的，旁边那位医生没有护目镜和N95，戴的自己的眼镜和一般的普通医用口罩！这都是在一线的战士，可能马上就没有了铠甲…金银潭医院副院长黄朝林的被感染，则有意外的成分。
In the face of severe shortages, our comrade-in-arms didn't eat or drink the toilet for eight hours in a row, or even colleagues peed to work because their suits were probably the last.
据他自己分析，1月10日晚，他完成了一天的抢救工作，换下防护服、摘下口罩，一位病人的女儿和女婿跑到他面前跪下，黄朝林赶紧把两个人扶起来，交流过程中，三人均未戴口罩。
On the night of January 10, he finished a day of rescue work, changing his suit and taking off his mask. A patient's daughter and son-in-law knelt before him, and Huang Zhaolin quickly helped the two men up.
三天后，这对夫妇确诊了新冠肺炎，而黄朝林则于1月22日确诊，经过治疗，2月4日出院在家隔离。
The couple was diagnosed with pneumonia three days later, while Huang Chaolin was diagnosed on January 22 and was discharged from the hospital on February 4 for isolation.
逝者已矣，但活着的人，还要继续类似的感染很多家医院都在发生。
The dead are dead, but the living continue to suffer from similar infections in many hospitals.
2月7日，武汉大学中南医院重症监护治疗中心彭志勇在美国医学会杂志JAMA发表了文章，统计了2020年1月1日至1月28日收治于中南医院的138例新冠病毒肺炎患者的回顾性临床数据，发现 41%（57例）为院内感染，其中29%（40例）为医护人员。
On February 7, Peng Zhiyong, the intensive care and treatment center of Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, published an article in the American Medical Association magazine JAMA. The retrospective clinical data of 138 patients admitted to Zhongnan Hospital from January 1 to January 28, 2020 showed that 41% (57 cases) were nosocomial infections, of which 29% (40 cases) were medical staff.
2月初，一张视频会议中的图片，显示当时医护人员感染数超过15人的医院，已有13家。
In early February, a video conference showed 13 hospitals with more than 15 people infected.
其中最多的是协和医院，确诊101例，另有疑似160例。
Concorde Hospital accounted for the largest number of cases, with 101 confirmed cases and 160 suspected cases.
而中南医院的确诊数据是50人，相比彭志勇文章统计的时间点，又增加了10人。
The number of people diagnosed in the South-Central Hospital was 50, an increase of 10 from the point in time Peng Zhiyong's article.
再看武汉中心医院的确诊和疑似数共115人，而最新的报道与之相比又翻了一倍。
Wuhan central hospital confirmed and suspected a total of 115 people, but the latest report doubled.
就是说，跟新冠肺炎确诊和死亡人数还在不断增加一样，医护人员确诊和死亡的人数也还在上升中。
That is to say, as the number of confirmed cases and deaths from neonatal pneumonia continues to rise, so do the number of cases diagnosed and deaths by health-care personnel.
面对这样的局面，武汉的医生们仍然坚守在一线，全国各地的医生们也还在不断奔赴武汉进行支援。
In the face of this situation, Wuhan doctors still adhere to the first line, doctors from all over the country are also constantly rushed to Wuhan to support.
武汉市中心医院疼痛科主任蔡毅，2月11日写了一篇文章悼念因感染新冠肺炎逝世的院区门口小卖部的老板林军（音）。
Cai Yi, director of the pain department at Wuhan Central Hospital, wrote an article on Feb. 11 in memory of Lin Jun, the owner of the hospital's cafeteria who died of pneumonia.
他在文中说：“逝者已矣，但活着的人，还要继续！”蔡毅带队工作12天，管理32张床位、治愈22位、去世3位，收到医院轮换的通知后，却继续加入下一个班次。
Cai Yi, who led the team for 12 days, administered 32 beds, cured 22 patients and died three times, but continued to join the next shift after receiving notification of the hospital's rotation.
他说：我就想站在这里，站在第一线，没有为什么。
He said: I just want to stand here, on the front line, for no reason.
我觉得，我还可以，我能扛住压力，尽快尽多的救治更多的人、更多的小人物、更多的武汉市民！王晨|撰稿微信号：2174127王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
I think I'm OK. I can withstand the pressure and treat as many people as possible, as many as possible, and as many people as possible! Wang Chen & # # 124; Writing micro-signals: 2174127 Wang Jilu.124. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武昌医院院长刘智明病逝  至少已有9位医护因新冠殉职。
Director of Wuchang Hospital Liu Zhiming has died at least nine medical personnel died in the new crown.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武昌医院院长刘智明病逝  至少已有9位医护因新冠殉职";。
var msg _ title = & quot; director of Wuchang Hospital Liu Zhiming died at least nine health care workers at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "没做好防护就直接面对患者，从而被大量感染";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
