交通停摆之后，武汉医护人员出行难怎么解决。
After the traffic stop, Wuhan medical staff travel difficult to solve.
杨楠。
Yeung Nan.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
受到武汉新发布限行令的影响，也出于对车主健康的担忧，善缘车队停止接送医护人员。
Wuhan issued by the new restrictions, but also out of concern for the health of car owners, Shangyuan caravan stopped the transport of medical personnel.
26日上午，在一些武汉本地的互助群里，提供免费住宿或为医生送餐的武汉市民们还在热议：目前我们还没收到通知，是不是还可以自发去接送医生？本文首发于南方人物周刊文|杨楠 实习记者 何沛芸 聂阳欣编辑|周建平 蒯乐昊全文约3725字，细读大约需要9分钟1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医护人员相互加油鼓劲。
In Wuhan on the morning of February 26, Wuhan residents who provide free accommodation or deliver meals to doctors are still debating hotly: We haven't received notification yet, can we send a doctor spontaneously? This article is based on about 3725 words by Yang Nan's intern reporter Wang Peiyun.
一场抗击新型肺炎疫情的战役正在进行，医护人员是这场疫情防控战的逆行者 图 /新华社交通停摆之后 市民们自发组织车队接送医生上下班1月25日年初一这天，小熊（化名）手机铃声就没有停过。
A battle is under way to combat the new pneumonia, with health care workers being the inverse of the battle against the epidemic / Xinhua News Agency. After traffic was suspended, citizens spontaneously organized motorcades to take doctors to and from work on January 25.
她手机里有近30个武汉本地的微信群，有的负责对接物资，有的负责接送医生护士，还有的积极为医护工作者提供就近住宿。
She has nearly 30 local Wuhan-based microcosms on her mobile phone, ranging from docking supplies to taking doctors and nurses to providing nearby accommodation for health workers.
23日，武汉市暂停市内外公共交通，小熊和朋友自发组织起善缘车队，接送医务人员出行。
23, Wuhan City suspended public transport inside and outside the city, Cubs and friends spontaneously organized a benevolent convoy to transport medical staff.
除夕这天凌晨1点多，小熊接到一位四十多岁的女医生。
On New Year's Eve at more than 1: 00 a.m., Xiong received a woman doctor in her 40s.
医生刚上车就同她不停道谢，说差点以为要回不了十八、九公里外的家。
No sooner had the doctor got on the bus than he thanked her incessantly, saying that he had thought he would not be able to return home eighteen or nine kilometres away.
车开了没一会儿，医生说起了医院N95口罩不够，一天看了一百多个病人，许多同事都只能在冬夜里步行回家。
After a short drive, the doctor talked about the lack of N95 masks in the hospital and saw more than a hundred patients a day. Many colleagues had to walk home on winter nights.
“受不了了，压力太大”，女医生突然在后座哭了起来。
"I can't stand it, it's too stressful," the woman doctor suddenly began to cry in the back seat.
一天后，小熊开始发烧、咳嗽。
A day later, the bear began to have a fever and cough.
她很警觉，立刻决定先在家休息，自行隔离，不去医院以降低交叉感染的可能性，并希望继续参与车队调度的安排。
She was alert and immediately decided to stay at home, isolate herself, not go to the hospital to reduce the possibility of cross-infection, and wished to continue to participate in the convoy arrangements.
她发了一条朋友圈，提醒和她接触过的朋友自行隔离。
She sent out a circle of friends to remind them to isolate themselves.
原本，小熊的2020年春节是这样安排的：和男友旅行，去迪士尼，去泡温泉，然后举行订婚仪式。
Originally, Cubs 2020 Spring Festival was arranged like this: travel with boyfriends, go to Disney, go to hot springs, and then hold betrothal ceremonies.
说到这里小熊也哭了，“今天早上，他（男友）还和我说，早知道就早点帮我完成这些愿望，他害怕到死都没办法再见面。
"And so did the bear." This morning, he told me he'd done it earlier and he was so scared he couldn't see him again.
”家住武昌区的私家车主郭信，也加入了自愿接送医护人员的微信群，按区接人。
"Home Wuchang District private car master Guo Xin, also joined the voluntary transport of medical personnel micro-faith groups, according to the district.
年三十那天，他接了两个医护，都是顺路。
On the thirtieth day of New Year, he took two paramedics, both on the way.
他每接一个人，都会拿出酒精喷雾消毒，把车晾在路边一小时，自己四处走走，再接下一个。
Every time he met someone, he would take out an alcohol spray, hang the car on the side of the road for an hour, walk around and take the next one.
为了减少感染的可能，郭信建议司机们不要承载患者，并要求医护人员出示证件或以其他方式确认身份。
To reduce the risk of infection, Guo advised drivers not to carry patients and required health-care workers to show their documents or otherwise identify themselves.
“医护人员都是战士，我们是后勤，真的染病了也值。
"The paramedics are warriors, we're logistics, and it's worth getting sick.
”可当他路过四干道的居民区，看到一大波人在小区门口等着想打车打不到，心里也难受，“挺不容易的”，他说。
But when he passed the four-lane residential area and saw a huge wave of people waiting in front of the neighborhood trying to get a taxi, it was hard, "he said.
25日深夜，小熊发布告示，受到武汉新发布限行令的影响，也出于对车主健康的担忧，善缘车队停止接送医护人员。
Late last night, the bear issued a notice, Wuhan issued by the new restrictions, but also out of concern for the health of car owners, Shangyuan Caravan stopped the transport of medical personnel.
武汉从26日起，将对中心城区区域实行机动车管制，交管部门将对禁行的机动车通过短信提前24小时告知车主。
Wuhan will implement motor vehicle control in the central city area from 26th, and traffic control departments will inform motorists 24 hours in advance by text message of prohibited motor vehicles.
目前尚不确定哪些车主会收到短信通知。
It is not yet certain which owners will receive SMS notifications.
26日上午，在一些武汉本地的互助群里，提供免费住宿或为医生送餐的武汉市民们还在热议：目前我们还没收到通知，是不是还可以自发去接送医生？HIV携带者和尿毒症患者的多事之秋近三日，湖北省已有14个城市实行“封城”措施，道路交通的阻断为生活带来的困境亟待解决。
In Wuhan on the morning of May 26, Wuhan residents who provided free accommodation or delivered meals to doctors are still debating: We haven't been notified whether we can go to the doctor on our own initiative.
有的超市工作人员步行一小时去上班，也有下班步行三小时回家的市民。
Some supermarket workers walk an hour to work, while others walk three hours home from work.
突如其来的变故，也可能给生活带来意外的危机。
Sudden changes can also bring unexpected crises to life.
电话采访中，邹俊熙（化名）一直在哭。
In the telephone interview, Zou Junxi (alias) has been crying.
春节返乡，他回到武汉附近天门市的一个村子里。
The Spring Festival returns home, he returns to Wuhan near Tianmen City a village.
他是一位HIV病毒携带者，需要每天准时吃药。
He is a person living with HIV and needs to take medicine on time every day.
由于村里突然封路，他担心无法去天门市人民医院取药。
He feared that he would not be able to get medicine from Tianmen People's Hospital because of the sudden village closure.
他的药还有八天，但如果漏药，HIV病毒可能变异，之后就需要更换三千每月的进口药。
He has eight days left on his medication, but if the drug leaks, the HIV virus could mutate, requiring the replacement of 3,000 monthly imports.
忧心之下，邹俊熙在微博上发布了求助，村里一位工作人员上门了解情况时，将他携带HIV病毒的事告诉了他父母。
Worried, Zou Junxi on Weibo issued a call for help, a village staff member home to learn about the situation, he told his parents about the HIV virus.
父母问他为什么会染上这个病。
His parents asked him why he had contracted the disease.
他躲进自己房间哭，不知道如何回答父母，也不知道在村子里，这个消息会不会很快传播开，“我爸妈可能没法抬头了。
He went into his room to cry, did not know how to answer his parents, and did not know whether the news would soon spread in the village.
”他还想和父母说，一起吃饭，一起生活，是不会传染的。
He also wanted to tell his parents that eating together and living together would not be contagious.
工作人员后来上门同他道歉。
The staff member later apologized to him.
天门市人民医院的医护人员主动联系了他，但告诉他，医院无法调整取药方式，因为HIV患者每次取药都需要抽血检验，必须亲自前来。
Medical staff at Tianmen People's Hospital contacted him but told him that the hospital could not adjust the method of delivery because HIV patients needed blood tests every time they took the medicine and had to come in person.
有NGO与省疾控中心协调后，HIV患者可以在当地治疗点领取一个月的药物。
In coordination with the provincial CDC, HIV patients can receive a month's supply of drugs at local treatment sites.
25日下午，武汉六院的尿毒症患者收到通知，因六院被征收为新一批定点诊治新冠肺炎的医院，下周起将不再接受透析患者。
On the afternoon of May 25, uremic patients from Wuhan Six Hospitals were notified that they would not receive dialysis patients from next week because they were being collected as a new batch of hospitals designated to treat new cases of pneumonia.
患者和家属手足无措。
Patients and their families are overwhelmed.
有的已经去了附近其他的医院，但目前汉口医院的医疗资源十分紧张，鲜有医院有能力接收透析患者。
Some have gone to other nearby hospitals, but so far Hankou Hospital has limited medical resources and few hospitals have the capacity to receive dialysis patients.
由于限行令，患者家属担忧无法去离家远的医院透析。
Because of the restrictions, families are worried about not being able to visit hospitals far from their homes.
家属急得怪医生怪护士，血透室护士长陈明赌咒发誓她也是突然知道情况。
The family members blamed the doctor on the nurse, and the head nurse in the hemodialysis room swore that she, too, had suddenly learned.
她说，“我很难过！很难过！但你们能不能等一等，我们跑一跑。
She said, "I'm sorry! I'm sorry! But can't you just wait and let's run."
”她和血透室的其他同事去跑，去争取，25日晚上8点时告诉大家：“（27日）星期一暂时（还可以）透析，等待转诊医院！”过了一会儿她又在微信群里说了三次，“来透析来透析来透析。
"She and the rest of the hemodialysis room ran, went for it, and told everyone at 8: 00 pm on the 25th:" Monday (27th) for temporary (still) dialysis, waiting for a referral hospital! "
”“来透析”这三个字就像是一场春雨。
"Coming to dialysis" was like a spring shower.
半小时后，血透室主任告诉患者们，“院长帮大家争取了一段缓冲期，他还在继续争取。
Half an hour later, the head of the hemodialysis unit told the patients, "The dean has been fighting for a buffer, and he's still fighting.
我们会尽最大努力帮助大家。
We will do our best to help everyone.
”患者们道谢，祝福医生护士。
"The patients thanked them and blessed the doctors and nurses.
之前剑拔弩张，突然和平，医生说：“我们还是一家人。
"At last, when there was great tension and peace, the doctor said," We are one family.
”一家空杯连锁酒店被69位医护人员预定了房间，老板陶磊给他们办理了可用十天的房卡武汉超百家酒店为医生免费提供就近住宿大家都知道一切会好起来，可这一时期的艰难是实实在在的，必须咬牙共渡。
An empty-cup chain of hotels was booked by 69 paramedics, and the owner, Tao Lei, gave them rooms for 10 days. Wuhan's more than 100 hotels provide free lodging for doctors.
因为公共交通停摆，出诊时间长，不少家比较远的医生需要解决就近住宿问题。
Because the public transportation stops, the time that goes out to visit is long, a lot of doctors farther away need to solve the problem of nearby accommodation.
目前武汉有超过百家酒店主动为医护人员免费提供住宿，希望在市内交通停摆的日子里，奋战在一线的医护人员就近有个休息的地方。
At present, Wuhan has more than 100 hotels offer free accommodation for medical staff, hope that in the city traffic stop day, fighting in the front-line medical staff close to a place to rest.
一支援群总结的酒店入住需知分别给医护人员和酒店人员详细写了建议他们的联络群里常有这样的信息，“肺科医院医护人员九名，几天没有回家休息，现在还在医院，希望有附近酒店可以尽快入住休息。
One support group summed up the hotel accommodation needs to know detailed advice to the health care workers and hotel staff often wrote such a message in their contact group, "nine staff members of the pulmonary hospital, who have not returned home for a few days, are still in the hospital, hoping to have a nearby hotel to stay as soon as possible.
”或是，“武昌医院的军医，需要盒饭，谁有资源提供下。
"or," The military doctor at Wuchang Hospital needs a boxed meal and who has the resources to provide it.
谢谢！”大年初一的下午3点，辛德拉公寓酒店刚刚腾出的25个房间，立刻被武汉市第四医院刚上完夜班的医护人员住满。
Thank you! At 3 pm on New Year's Day, the 25 rooms just vacated by Sindela Apartment were immediately occupied by the medical staff who had just finished the night shift at Wuhan Fourth Hospital.
她们自带床单、被罩、牙刷、毛巾等生活用品和消毒液。
They bring their own bed sheets, coverings, toothbrushes, towels and other daily necessities and disinfectant.
春节期间，酒店只留下了一位清洁阿姨。
During the Spring Festival, the hotel left behind only an aunt cleaning.
医护人员提出可以自己打扫，但阿姨不答应。
The paramedics offered to do the cleaning themselves, but the aunt wouldn't.
“他们走了以后我们自己消毒，没问题。
"We'll sterilize ourselves when they're gone, no problem.
”阿姨在附近的超市买了面包和方便面，备好了自己过年的一日三餐。
"Aunt bought bread and instant noodles at a nearby supermarket and prepared her own three meals for the New Year.
特殊时期，所有科室都要上一线。
Special period, all departments must be on the front line.
武汉市第三医院耳鼻喉科的张潇（化名）从年三十早上8点开始，值班了24个小时。
Zhang Xiao (not her real name) in the otorhinolaryngology department of Wuhan Third Hospital started at 8 a.m. on duty for 24 hours.
在几小时的休息间歇里，科室给她准备了泡面、牛奶和面包。
During a break of a few hours, the office provided her with noodles, milk and bread.
她选择在医院附近住下，等待通知，随时准备顶上。
She chose to stay near the hospital, waiting to be notified and ready to go.
“关键时刻，不分科室，一方有难，八方支援，才能更快渡过难关。
"Critical moments, regardless of the department, a difficult, eight-party support, so that the difficulties can be overcome faster.
”这实在地帮助到了一线的医护人员。
"It really helped the front-line staff.
一家空杯连锁酒店被69位医护人员预定了房间，其中多数为武汉市第三人民医院的医护人员。
An empty cup chain hotel was booked by 69 medical staff, most of them from Wuhan Third People's Hospital.
老板陶磊给他们办理了可用十天的房卡，还在酒店大厅放置了面条、调料和简易的电磁炉灶台。
Owner Tao Lei provided them with a 10-day room card, as well as noodles, spices and a simple electromagnetic stove in the hotel lobby.
酒店内消毒液足够，但医用防护口罩紧缺，陶磊买了99元40个的简易口罩，自己开车给店内工作人员派送，让他们一次戴两个。
There was enough disinfectant in the hotel, but there was a shortage of medical masks. Tao Lei bought 99 yuan and 40 simple masks and sent them to the store staff to wear two at a time.
医用防护口罩紧缺，陶磊买了99元40个的简易口罩，自己开车给店内工作人员派送，让他们一次戴两个武汉北岛酒店公寓发布信息当晚，已有七位中南医院的医护人员联系入住。
With a shortage of medical masks, Tao Lei bought 99 yuan and 40 simple masks and sent them to shop staff to wear two Wuhan North Island hotel apartments in one go.
而武汉袋鼠公寓在25日中午12点十间房间全部订满，其中八间被刚值完夜班的医生入住。
Wuhan kangaroo apartment at 12: 10 noon on the 25 all booked up, eight of them just after the night of the doctor to check in.
Keivin公寓&民宿25日将11间房间安排给医护人员，交予他们民宿的管理员密码，没有规定退房时间。
Keivin & amp; amp; P & amp; B & amp; B & amp; B & B & amp; B & amp; B & B on the 25th.
但依然有店主表示担忧。
But shopkeepers are still worried.
汉福林酒店的运营者担心，如果因为接待医护人员，造成了酒店员工感染，作为雇主，民营企业可能承担不起这个责任。
Operators of the Hanford Hotel worry that private companies, as employers, may not be able to take responsibility for infecting hotel staff by hosting health-care workers.
多数酒店在尽可能做好一系列防护措施，避免医护人员间交叉感染，也保证酒店工作人员的健康。
Most hotels are doing their best to prevent cross-infection among medical staff and ensure the health of hotel staff.
其中包括店内工作人员戴口罩戴浴帽，退房后消毒，清洁后洗澡等等。
These include staff wearing masks and bathing caps, disinfection after check-out, bathing after cleaning, etc.
酒店在大厅放置了面条、调料和简易的电磁炉灶台国家救援物资正陆续抵达武汉对小熊来说，大年初一最好的消息莫过于她在朋友圈看到的一张照片：几辆货车疾驰在空无一人的大桥上。
The hotel has put noodles, spices and a simple electromagnetic stove in the lobby. National materials are arriving in Wuhan The best news for Cubs on New Year's Day is a picture she saw in her circle of friends: lorries galloping across the empty bridge.
“国家的救援物资终于到了武汉，要哭了。
"The country's relief supplies finally arrived in Wuhan, to cry.
（希望）不用一个口罩戴一天了，也不用冒着生命危险上岗了。
You don't have to wear a mask for a day or risk your life on the job.
一线的工作人员一定要保护好自己，武汉人民谢谢过年还专门回来救援的所有医院工作者。
The front-line staff must protect themselves, Wuhan people thank the New Year also came back to rescue all the hospital workers.
”她在朋友圈写道。
She wrote in a circle of friends.
从26日起，阿里巴巴将每日免费为武汉红十字会医院、武汉第六医院提供早中晚三餐300份，为武昌区21家医疗单位每天供应饮用水、方便面、自热食品等物资3144份。
From 26, Alibaba will provide three hundred meals a day in the morning and evening to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital and Wuhan Sixth Hospital free of charge, and 3,144 copies daily of drinking water, instant noodles, self-heating food and other materials to 21 medical units in Wuchang district.
天猫超市和盒马鲜生超市不停业、不涨价，滚动上架口罩、消毒液等防护用品。
Tiancat supermarket and box Ma Xiansheng supermarket do not close down, do not increase prices, rolling on the shelf mask, disinfectant and other protective supplies.
饿了么外卖不停，配送费不涨。
Hungry do not stop take-out, distribution fees do not rise.
虽然26日凌晨1点，来自上海的对口支援医疗队，尚在询问哪里可以购买每日三餐：“从上海来的支援医生连物资都自带了，但是没想到到了当地医院，连饭都吃不上。
Although at 1 a.m. on the 26th, the corresponding medical support team from Shanghai was still asking where to buy three meals a day: "The support doctors from Shanghai brought their own supplies, but they didn't expect to be able to eat in the local hospital.
现在还在开会，明天就要进驻疫情最严重的汉口医院，但早饭都还没有着落。
It's still in session, and tomorrow it's going to be at Hankou Hospital, the worst hit, but there's no breakfast yet.
”随即有人在微信群里提出帮忙对接外卖平台。
"Someone in the group offered to help dock the takeaway platform.
“现实就是这样，我们等着情况慢慢好起来。
"The reality is that we wait for things to get better.
”一位求助人说。
'said one of the servants.
征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
Collecting true stories about epidemics and documenting our destinies The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of New Crown Pneumonia, writing about stories you are experiencing or witnessing.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、记者热线（同微信）：13918532564、136314839362、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
How to contribute: 1. Journalist hotline (tweets): 13918532564, 136314839362, Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo Discussion Topic: # I have words in the affected areas # Please make sure that the contents are true, objective, rational, do not rumor and do not spread rumors.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
交通停摆之后，武汉医护人员出行难怎么解决。
After the traffic stop, Wuhan medical staff travel difficult to solve.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "交通停摆之后，武汉医护人员出行难怎么解决";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "是不是还可以自发去接送医生？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
