“湖北人，离我远点！”丨特别报道。
"Hubei people, stay away from me!"
麓泉。
Foothill springs.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/麓泉编辑/大风从1月23日算起，武汉宣布封城已经大概过去了半个月的时间。
Since January 23, Wuhan has announced the closure of the city about half a month has passed.
一时间，湖北乃至其中的任何一个城市，都成了闻之色变的词语，与湖北有关的人成了全国各地区无差别“歧视”的对象。
For a time, Hubei even any of the cities, has become the color of the word change, and Hubei-related people have become the country's regional non-discrimination without discrimination.
封城后的武汉，图源于微博林晨同学Hearing哪怕这些人早已离开湖北在外奔波已经多年；哪怕这些人仅仅是挂了一个鄂字头的车牌；哪怕这些人早已举家迁徙别地生活了半辈子。
The picture of Wuhan after the city was taken from Healing, a classmate of the Weibo Brilliance, even though they had been away from Hubei for years; even if they were simply carrying a Hubei license plate; even if they had already moved away from their families for half their lives.
“湖北人，离我远点”，似乎成了各地的潜台词。
"Hubei people, away from me," seems to have become the subtext everywhere.
疫情之下，严加防范无法苛责。
Tight precautions against the epidemic cannot be blamed.
但当下，全国如何看待湖北人，正如世界如何看待中国人。
But now, how the whole country looks at Hubei people, just as the world looks at the Chinese people.
半个月的时间，锌财经也寻访了诸多漂流在外的湖北籍人，这半个月的时间里，他们的故事或许应该被记录。
For half a month, Zinc Finance also visited a number of Hubei expats whose stories might have been recorded for half a month.
“过年没回过湖北，半夜被酒店赶出门”常烨 湖北黄石籍我是湖北黄石人，上一次回家还是国庆，原计划今年回家过年，已经订好了除夕当天的高铁票，但在出发前父亲给我打电话，表示家乡疫情太严重，让我别回去了，所以这次就一个人在杭州过年了。
Hubei Huangshi I was a Hubei Huangshi, the last time I returned home or National Day, had planned to go home this New Year's Day, has scheduled the high-speed rail tickets before departure, but before departure my father called me, said the hometown epidemic is too serious, let me not go back, so this time alone in Hangzhou.
1月29日，因为有些急事，要去南京处理。
I have to go to Nanjing on January 29th for urgent business.
当晚十一点多，我到达南京酒店办理入住手续，期间没有遇到任何阻拦。
At 11: 00 that evening, I arrived at Nanjing Hotel to check in without any hindrance.
大概进入房间5分钟后，前台打来电话说湖北籍人士都不允许在这里住，要给我强制退房。
About five minutes into the room, the front desk called to say that Hubei residents are not allowed to live here, to give me forced check out.
如果要住在南京，必须去全市唯一指定的，只收湖北籍人士的酒店入住，但是只要住进去，必须待满14天才能出酒店，相当于集中隔离。
If you want to live in Nanjing, you must go to the only designated hotel in the city for people of Hubei nationality, but as long as you live in Nanjing, you must stay 14 days before you leave the hotel, which is equivalent to centralized segregation.
我听到这个消息，直接懵了，办理入住时我也给了身份证，当时也没有说什么，现在入住后直接要赶我走。
I heard the news, Meng directly, I also gave identity cards when check-in, then did not say anything, now directly after the move to drive me away.
我下楼找酒店方面理论，质问为什么湖北籍不能入住酒店，自己近期也没有往来湖北的行程，但酒店方面的人说上面有规定，就是不能住。
I went downstairs to find the hotel theory, asking why Hubei citizens can not stay in the hotel, I have no recent itinerary to and from Hubei, but hotel people said that the above rules, but can not live.
既然不让住，那我走好了，但是酒店人员说不行，必须让我去南京集中隔离的酒店，向那边驻守警察说清楚，才能让我走。
Since I won't let you stay, I will go, but the hotel staff said no. I must go to Nanjing Centralized Isolated Hotel and speak clearly to the police there before I can leave.
就这样，酒店方面派了人和我一起去了南京市定点收治湖北籍人士的酒店。
In this way, the hotel sent someone with me to the Nanjing fixed-point reception and treatment of Hubei people's hotel.
集中隔离的酒店，图源网络到了酒店，我一直和警察解释，自己只是湖北籍人员，已经很久没回过湖北，过年也没有回去。
Centrally isolated hotel, the graph source network to the hotel, I have been explaining to the police, they are only Hubei nationality, has not returned to Hubei, the New Year did not go back.
沟通了十多分钟后，他们说南京全市酒店肯定住不了，要住只能住集中隔离酒店。
After more than 10 minutes of communication, they said Nanjing hotel can not live, to live in a centralized isolation hotel.
我不愿意被隔离14天，在得到警察可以离开的许可后，凌晨直接拿着行李，去了南京动车站。
I did not want to be kept in isolation for 14 days, and after getting permission from the police to leave, I went directly to Nanjing Station in the early morning with my luggage.
到达后只有一个售票厅开门，里面位置也不多，我在地上坐了一晚，第二天买了六点多的早班动车，回了杭州。
I sat on the ground for a night. The next day I bought an early train with more than six o'clock and returned to Hangzhou.
1月30日回到杭州，当天下午我接到物业和公寓管家的电话，问我是不是湖北籍，让我在家进行自我隔离。
Returning to Hangzhou on January 30, I received a call that afternoon from the housekeeper of my property and apartment asking if I was of Hubei nationality and asked me to isolate myself at home.
我真的很无奈，我也没有回去过，这个病也不是只要湖北人就会染上。
I really helpless, I also did not go back, this disease is not as long as Hubei people will catch it.
但没人愿意听我，所有人都要我在家自我隔离，意思是不要出去传染给别人。
But no one wants to listen to me. Everyone wants me to isolate myself at home, which means not to infect anyone else.
虽然我目前在杭州工作生活，但是几乎所有的家人、朋友都在湖北生活，他们的情况更糟糕，口罩买不到，有些朋友还看到附近的人一个个被抬走。
Although I am currently working and living in Hangzhou, almost all my family and friends live in Hubei Province. Their situation is even worse.
现在湖北都已经这样了，我们都已经这么难了，想不明白为什么还要赶我们，还要这样对我们。
Hubei has been like this, we have been so difficult, do not understand why we have to rush, we have to do so.
“在外像‘瘟神’，就算死也要在武汉”周欣 湖北武汉籍春节假期去西双版纳旅游，是1月初计划好的行程，因为这次一个人过年，想着西双版纳暖和点，就规划了出游行程。
"Outside like 'Misery', even death in Wuhan" Zhou Xin Hubei Wuhan Spring Festival to Xishuangbanna tourism, is planned in early January, because this time a person, thinking of Xishuangbanna warmer, planned a trip.
当时订票的时候，还没有新型冠状病毒的说法，只是听说华南海鲜市场出现了疑似SARS的病例。
At the time of booking, there was no new coronavirus, only to hear of a suspected SARS case in the South China seafood market.
1月21日晚上，我从武汉直飞西双版纳，航班正常起飞，一切都像往常一样。
On the evening of January 21, I flew directly from Wuhan to Xishuangbanna. The flight took off normally and everything was as usual.
图源网络我没想到两天后，武汉宣布封城，如果早有消息出来，我也不会出来，让自己在外面被人排挤。
Map source network I did not expect two days later, Wuhan announced the closure of the city, if the news came out, I will not come out, let themselves be excluded from the outside.
封城消息出来后，我也有自知之明，一直呆在民宿没有出来，但当时口罩快用完了，不得已我只能出来买口罩。
When the news of the closure came out, I knew that I had stayed out of the house, but my mask was running out and I had to come out to buy one.
由于民宿在西双版纳景区内，当时途中路过一个佛像时，有人叫我帮忙拍照，他们手机像素不好，刚开始拍得照片不好看，我就用自己的手机给他们拍了。
As the residents were sleeping in Xishuangbanna scenic area, I was asked to help take photos while passing a Buddha statue. Their pixels were bad.
拍完要把照片传给对方，就这样互加微信，加上后对方看到我地区显示湖北武汉，当时直接叫了一声：你是武汉人。
After filming to pass the photos to each other, so as to add micro-letters, plus the other side to see my region shows Hubei Wuhan, then cried out directly: You are Wuhan.
广场上所有人听到这句话，全部迅速往后退，有些人还尖叫地看着我，三米之内瞬间没人。
All the people in the square heard this and all retreated quickly. Some of them looked at me screaming and no one was there for three meters.
我又不是病毒，现在抵抗的是病毒，又不是武汉人，当时特别尴尬地走了。
I am not a virus, is resisting the virus, is not Wuhan people, then particularly embarrassed to leave.
我没想到这次被另眼相看的经历，在之后成为常态。
I didn't expect this experience to come across as the norm.
原本住的民宿到期后，我需要在西双版纳另外寻找其他酒店，好不容易找到了一家小酒店，办理入住的时候可能前台没有过多在意。
I had to find another hotel in Xishuangbanna after the expiration of my original residence. I managed to find a small hotel and the front desk probably didn't pay much attention when checking in.
第二天酒店方面得知我是武汉人，通知了当地派出所，并在晚上八九点的时候，上来敲门让我去防疫站做检查。
The next day the hotel learned that I was Wuhan people, informed the local police station, and at 8: 9 p.m., came up to knock on the door to let me go to the quarantine station for inspection.
我知道自己的身份，也配合他们下楼准备去做检查。
I knew who I was, and I worked with them as they went downstairs for an exam.
集中隔离酒店进行消毒，图源网络尴尬的一幕又出现了。
Centralized isolation hotel undertakes disinfection, the scene that graph source network awkwardness appears again.
我从房间走到大堂，酒店专门派人在我前面喷消毒水。
I walked from the room to the lobby and the hotel had someone spray disinfectant in front of me.
我往前走，他边往后退，边喷消毒水，只要我走过的沿路都喷上了消毒水，一路上所有人都躲我很远。
As I walked on, he retreated, squirting disinfectant, and whenever I walked along the road with disinfectant spray, everyone avoided me.
每个人看我都有种惧怕感，没有一个人敢和我讲话。
Everybody looked at me with a sense of fear that no one dared speak to me.
虽然防疫站检测结果显示一切都正常，但此后酒店人员也不敢来房间打扫卫生了，进来添加日常物品也匆匆忙忙，感觉我像是瘟神一样。
Although the results of the quarantine station showed that everything was fine, the hotel staff did not dare to come to the room to clean up, and I felt like a plague as I hurried in to add everyday things.
我真的不希望大家看到武汉人，像看到怪物一样，我其实也想回武汉，就算死也要死在武汉。
I really do not want you to see Wuhan people, like to see monsters, I also want to go back to Wuhan, even if the death will die in Wuhan.
“本想出来享受生活，现在吃住都成了问题”姜磊 温州籍常住武汉我是温州人，因为工作原因常年生活在武汉，老婆也是武汉人。
I am a native of Wenzhou. I live in Wuhan all the year round because I work in Wuhan and my wife is Wuhan.
在1月20日之前，武汉市区戴口罩的人还非常少，当时相关部分没有说要警惕，公共场所也没有任何管制，根本没有任何风声。
Before Jan. 20, the number of masks in Wuhan was very low, and the authorities said nothing about vigilance, no controls in public places and no wind at all.
当时我还经常和朋友聚会，与平常没有什么不同，唯一得到的消息就是华南海鲜市场关闭了，仅此而已。
I used to hang out with friends all the time, and the only thing I got was that the South China seafood market was closed, that's all.
刚开始根本没有意识到会这么严重，所以我和老婆按原定计划去了洪湖市泡温泉。
I didn't realize it was going to be so serious at first, so my wife and I went to the hot spring in Honghu as planned.
1月21日晚上六点多，我们夫妻俩自驾从武汉市来到洪湖市，准备在外面放松一下。
January 21st at more than 6: 00 pm, our husband and wife drove from Wuhan to Honghu City, ready to relax outside.
当时出城的时候，发现戴口罩的人越来越多，但也不知道武汉即将封城。
When I went out of the city, I found more and more people wearing masks, but I did not know that Wuhan was about to be closed.
武汉市内戴口罩的人，图源于微博林晨同学Hearing当晚出城的时候，高速出城口一直在堵车，原因是警察在量体温，但这个措施是临时性的，后面堵车越来越严重，也就没有继续检测每个人的体温，直接放行了。
A man wearing a mask in Wuhan city is seen walking out of the city at high speed during a night out of the city because police were taking temperature, but the measure was temporary and the traffic was getting worse.
本来我们准备23号回武汉，但没想到当天封城了。
We had planned to return to Wuhan on the 23rd, but we did not expect the city to be closed that day.
这时候，我们也接到温泉酒店的通知，当地所有与旅游相关酒店要统一关闭。
At this time, we were also informed by the Hot Springs Hotel that all tourism-related hotels in the area would be closed.
我们回不去武汉，酒店也不能住，只能另外找地方。
We can not go back to Wuhan, the hotel can not live, can only find another place.
因为有朋友在黄冈市，同时离武汉也很近，可以第一时间回武汉，所以我们选择去了黄冈。
Because there are friends in Huanggang City, Wuhan is also very close to the first time back to Wuhan, so we chose to go to Huanggang.
到了黄冈市，当地暂时还没有对武汉人很排斥，我们还算顺利找到了酒店，但只住了一天，这家酒店也要关闭了，同时所在小镇开始进行交通管制，两边的路都封死了。
To Huanggang City, the local people have not been very ostracized, we have been able to find a hotel, but only for a day, the hotel will be closed, the town began traffic control, both sides of the road are blocked.
当时我开车想要直接回武汉，但是到了路口，已经有警察在把守了，有些当地人即使家在这里，也不能进出，根本没有一点通融的余地。
I wanted to drive directly back to Wuhan, but at the intersection, the police are on guard, some local people even here, can not enter or leave, there is no room for accommodation.
各地实行封路，图源网络没办法，小镇出不去，我们只能再找酒店。
Locally closed roads, graph source network can not get out of the town, we have to find a hotel.
这个时候，当地已经排斥武汉来的人，因为我的车牌是“鄂A”，很容易让人知道我们是武汉来的。
At this time, Wuhan has been rejected by the local people, because my license plate is "E", it is easy to let people know that we are from Wuhan.
这导致大年初一当天，我和老婆一直都在找酒店收留，我也根本不敢把车停到酒店门口，都是停到很远的地方，用我的温州身份证去开房，老婆的武汉身份证根本不敢拿出来。
This led to New Year's Day, my wife and I have been looking for hotel accommodation, I did not dare to park the car to the hotel door, are parked far away, with my Wenzhou identity card to open a room, his wife's Wuhan identity card did not dare to take out.
其实我们也知道自己是武汉来的，所以到黄冈市第二天，我和老婆一起去了镇上比较规范的医院，做了肺部CT之类的检查，显示都是正常。
In fact, we also know that we are from Wuhan, so the next day in Huanggang City, my wife and I went to the town's more standardized hospital, have a lung CT and other tests, it is normal.
恳求了四五家酒店后，一直没有愿意收留我们的，我们也不敢去麻烦朋友，还好最后终于找到一家小酒店愿意让我们入住。
After pleading four or five hotels, there has been no willing to take us in, we dare not trouble friends, but finally found a small hotel willing to let us live.
不过疫情来得太凶猛，各地政策也在不断变化。
But the epidemic is coming too hard and policies are changing everywhere.
1月30日，酒店老板接到通知，当地酒店也要被全部关闭。
On January 30, the hotel owner was told that the local hotel would also be completely closed.
如果连这个酒店都住不了，只能流浪街头了，还没有东西吃。
If you can't live in this hotel, you have to live on the street and have nothing to eat.
我们只能恳求老板，保证一步都不踏出酒店，也不需要打扫卫生等服务，只要能让我继续住在这里。
We had to plead with the boss to make sure that I didn't step out of the hotel and didn't need cleaning services, as long as I could stay.
当然我们也给老板看了医院出具的检测报告，好在最后老板同意让我们继续住下去，但明确说明不能出酒店，他会把大门从外面锁上，同时房费也要涨一倍。
Of course we showed him the hospital's test report, but finally the boss agreed to let us stay, but made it clear that he could not leave the hotel. He would lock the door and double the room rate.
住的问题解决后，我拜托朋友给我送来了电磁炉和面条，每天一日三餐就吃面条，到现在已经吃了七八天面条。
When the problem was solved, I asked my friends to bring me an induction cooker and noodles. I ate noodles three times a day and have eaten seven or eight days of noodles by now.
因为小镇现在全面封锁，朋友那边生活也很困难，我的物资也就能撑两天，之后不知道该怎么办了。
Because the town is now completely closed, friends on the other side of life is very difficult, my supplies can last for two days, after which I do not know what to do.
（应受访者要求，文中常烨、周欣、姜磊为化名）。
(At the request of interviewees, the article often Ye, Zhou Xin, Jiang Lei for aliases).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“湖北人，离我远点！”丨特别报道。
"Hubei people, stay away from me!"
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "“湖北人，离我远点！”丨特别报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "Hubei, stay away from me!"
var msg_desc = "你如何看待湖北，世界如何看待中国。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; What do you think of Hubei and how the world views China?
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
