回不了家的武汉人。
Wuhan people who can not go home.
张明萌。
Meng Meng Zhang.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
“我们这部分很模棱两可，不上不下的人，没有人管”“问题核心是对病毒的恐惧，变成了对湖北人的恐惧”本文首发于南方人物周刊文|本刊记者 张明萌 实习记者 梁翰文编辑| 蒯乐昊全文约3645字，细读大约需要10分钟王安平26日入住酒店“云南滞留武汉游客因疫情管控无法返乡，入住宾馆饭店被拒绝”的相关信息在网上传播。
"At the heart of the problem is the fear of the virus becoming a fear of Hubei people." This article first appears in the full text of about 3645 words by Meng Liang, a reporter for the Southern Personality Weekly. It takes about 10 minutes for Wang to check in.
各个省份出于疫情防控的需要，也陆续开始了对外来武汉人的筛查，这是一项涉及面极广、难度极大的工作。
Because of the need of epidemic prevention and control, each province has begun to screen Wuhan people, which is a very wide-ranging and difficult work.
王安平就是一位滞留丽江的武汉游客，以下为她的口述。
Wang Anping is a stranded Wuhan tourist Lijiang, the following is her oral.
我们昨天吃饭的时候，听到旁边的游客聊天，说昨天才到丽江，所有景区都关门。
When we had dinner yesterday, we heard the tourists chatting with each other and said that we had only been to Lijiang yesterday.
今天酒店也不让住了，但他们至少能回家。
The hotel is closed today, but they can at least go home.
我们呢？说句不好听的，现在叫个车，有的看到你是武汉的电话，都不敢接，严重到这种程度。
What about us? It's hard to hear, now call a car, some see you are Wuhan phone, do not dare to answer, serious to this extent.
昨天我和朋友就开始想办法，加了一个云南滞留的武汉旅游微信群，是一个在丽江开客栈的武汉老板拉的，他义务聚拢散落在这边、得不到帮助的老乡。
Yesterday my friends and I began to think of a way to add a stranded Wuhan tourism micro-faith group in Yunnan, is an inn owners in Lijiang, Wuhan boss, he volunteered to gather scattered here, no help.
里面有两百多人，大部分是来丽江的游客。
There are more than 200 people in it, most of them tourists from Lijiang.
每个人背后都是两、三个人甚至五、六个人的家庭，这么算算，涵盖了1000-2000个武汉人。
Behind each person is a family of two or three or even five or six people, so the calculation, covering 1000-2000 Wuhan people.
这几天群里情况很混乱，有个别酒店还能入住，有人入住遇到阻碍，打当地市长热线，不同地方反映的情况也不对等，有的让我们等消息，还有的劝我们离开丽江。
These days things are chaotic, individual hotels are still available, there are people who get stuck, they call the local mayor's hotline, and there is uneven information from different places. Some of us have to wait for news, others suggest we leave Lijiang.
有群友昨天去了当地人民医院，开了一个健康证明，他们在想说，会不会有一个这样的健康证明，拿着去酒店，别人愿意收我们？有群友打了110，警察说这个我们管不了。
A group of friends went to the local people's hospital yesterday and issued a health certificate. They were wondering if there would be a health certificate like this.
有的游客在云南省待不下去，想尽一切办法，坐火车、坐飞机离开，去了别的地方，到处流窜。
Some tourists can not stay in Yunnan Province, to do everything possible, by train, by air to leave, to other places, everywhere.
大家都是颠沛流离不稳定的局面。
Everyone is in a state of flux and instability.
我们没有得到一个统一的官方回复，也没有统一的措施，现在到底是管我们还是不管我们？按比例来说，绝大多数群友这几天都被酒店推出来了。
We do not have a unified official response, no unified measures, whether it is us or us? Proportionately, the vast majority of friends have been rolled out by the hotel these days.
群主昨天开始统计人员数量和信息，上报给了丽江政府，政府开会讨论，指定了两个酒店协调。
The group began to count the number and information yesterday, reported to Lijiang government, the government met to discuss, designated two hotel coordination.
但是昨天住了，今天呢？明天呢？我们根本不知道什么时候能够回到湖北省。
But yesterday, what about today? What about tomorrow? We have no idea when we can get back to Hubei province.
像我们这种，今天退了房，此刻在酒店外面坐着，也只能等着群主统计今天的名单，再和政府沟通。
Like us, today out of the room, sitting outside the hotel, can only wait for the group to count today's list, and then communicate with the government.
我们每天等消息，回不了家，也不敢去别的地方，很被动。
We waited for news every day, couldn't go home, didn't dare to go anywhere else, was very passive.
我19号离开武汉到昆明，这本来是我的春节假期。
I left Wuhan for Kunming on the 19th, which was supposed to be my Spring Festival.
那会儿还没疫情消息出来，我们群里绝大多数人都跟我一样，都是按照正常出游的行为出来，结果回不去。
By that time there was no news of the outbreak, and most of us in our group, like me, had followed the normal course of travel and were unable to return.
我的飞机晚上19号晚上起飞，当时什么都没公布，我坐地铁到了天河机场，上航站楼进安全门，安保人员把跟我一起的一群人围了一圈，暂停了1-2分钟，我看到右边有个红外检测的工具。
My plane took off on the night of the 19th, when nothing was announced. I took the subway to Tianhe Airport, got into the terminal, and the security personnel surrounded the group I was with for a minute or two. I saw an infrared detection tool on my right.
我们多少知道最近肺炎和流感很严重，但只是知道这样一个消息。
We know something about the severity of pneumonia and flu recently, but we only know the news.
而且我朋友打专车到机场，进站很顺利，也没有测体温。
And my friend took a special bus to the airport, the station is very smooth, there is no temperature measurement.
根本感觉不到情况严重，还误以为这跟每个春节我出去玩一样。
I didn't feel it was serious, and I thought it was the same as going out every Spring Festival.
如果当时我知道是20号宣布的那种情况，我肯定会留在家里。
If I had known it was the situation announced on the 20th, I would have stayed at home.
算上19号，我已经出来八天了，我也跟我武汉的同学、朋友、同事联系，武汉市内的情况我比较清楚，轻微症状的人都是建议自行在家隔离。
Including the number 19, I have been out for eight days, I also and my Wuhan classmates, friends, colleagues contact me, Wuhan situation I know more clearly, the mild symptoms of people are advised to isolate at home.
他们也是每天在家平复心情，在通过网上的专家咨询。
They are also at home every day to soothe their moods through online expert consultation.
现在武汉三镇之间公路交通都是由政府统一调配，普通人没机会出门，他们也很恐慌。
Now the road traffic between Wuhan three towns is coordinated by the government, ordinary people do not have the opportunity to go out, they are also very scared.
但是他们恐慌，至少有一个安静的屋子在里面呆着，我们每天都不知道能去哪儿，也害怕。
But they panicked and there was at least one quiet room inside, and we didn't know where to go and were scared every day.
我跟其他地方的老百姓一样，也害怕被别人感染。
Like the rest of the population, I am afraid of being infected.
我目前没有症状，但我也怕自己在潜伏期，这几天我和朋友每天都带着口罩，尽量不跟别人说话，大多数人都这样。
I don't have symptoms at the moment, but I'm also afraid of myself during latency, when my friends and I wear masks every day and try not to talk to anyone. Most people do.
现在情况是，所有人都绷着，没人敢崩溃，一旦崩溃了没法解决问题。
The thing is, everyone is tensed, no one dares to break down, and when it does, there is no solution.
但我们也很心寒，一方面我作为一个湖北人，我很体谅别人的看法和恐惧，但是如果爆发在北京市，或者广东省，当地的人也不会愿意遭遇这样的对待。
But we are also very cold, on the one hand, as a Hubei people, I am very considerate of other people's views and fears, but if the outbreak occurs in Beijing, or Guangdong Province, the local people will not want to be treated like this.
我们的诉求很简单，希望能够有一个妥善的点，来把我们这部分人安置了。
Our appeal is simple, and we hope that there will be a proper point at which to settle this part of us.
既然国家呼吁原地滞留，自我隔离，为了自己、为了别人安全着想，那希望各地的政府都能够响应这个号召。
Since the State calls for in situ detention, self-segregation, for its own sake and for the safety of others, it is to be hoped that Governments everywhere will respond to this call.
其次我们聚在一起，我们也怕传染性很高，现在只能统一管理，才有可能集中医疗和设备来监控，如果我们散在各地，危险系数更大。
Second, when we get together, we are also afraid of being highly contagious, and now it is only possible to centralize medical care and equipment to monitor it, even more so if we are scattered all over the place.
我们都愿意配合，但暂时就是还没一个说法和对策。
We are willing to cooperate, but for the time being has not been a statement and countermeasures.
我们也听说，有的落地郑州或者厦门，一落地，政府马上会安置和隔离，食宿都由政府统一管理。
We have also heard that some landing in Zhengzhou or Xiamen, the Government will immediately be installed and isolated, accommodation and meals are centrally administered by the Government.
我们有些情绪不好的群友，会直接说“巴不得得病被隔离，起码还有人管我们”。
Some of our moody friends will simply say, "Wish to get sick and quarantined, or at least someone else takes care of us."
湖北牺牲很大，整个省都关闭了，然后每天我都看到网上各种冷嘲热讽，我心里明白，我懂，但是真的……（哽咽）我对这个病没有很慌，我觉得大家按照官方公布的手段做就行，慌也没用。
Hubei sacrificed a lot, the whole province was closed, and then every day I saw all kinds of online sarcasm, I know, I understand, but really... (choking) I didn't panic about the disease.
现在能做的就是保护好自己，不要和人接触。
All you can do now is protect yourself from people.
我唯一的焦虑是我们没有地方住，也不知道十天半个月还是一两个月才能回家。
My only anxiety was that we had no place to live, nor did we know whether it was ten days, half a month, or a month or two.
像丽江政府，昨天指定了酒店，但是没告诉我们能够住多久，也涉及到费用的问题，一天300块我们非常能理解，过年期间很便宜了，而且在这种情况下还能收留我们，我们非常感恩。
Like the Lijiang government, which appointed the hotel yesterday, but didn't tell us how long it would last, and there are costs involved. 300 yuan a day is quite understandable.
但如果一个月每天都这样，这还只是住宿的部分，一家那么多口人，还有吃饭，还要生活。
But if it happens every day for a month, it's just a part of the accommodation, so many people in the family, eating and living.
我本来27号飞回武汉的，31号要上班，现在肯定回不去了，也不知道在外面要留多久。
I was flying back to Wuhan on the 27th, to work on the 31st, now definitely can not go back, and do not know how long to stay outside.
我们现在没有办法工作和创收，我们能撑多久？我也知道网上有很多谣言，我们也不晓得该信哪个消息，难免恐慌。
We can't work and generate income, how long can we last? I also know there are a lot of rumors on the Internet, and we don't know which message to believe.
同事建议我们赶紧去昆明，但昆明拒了又得换地方。
Colleagues suggested that we go to Kunming at once, but Kunming refused to change places.
我们明明是普通的、不知情的出行老百姓，现在搞得到处流散，万一真的出了什么事，100张嘴我也说不清，你会判定我恶意传播，谁会听我讲话呢？在排除了一些信息之后，我勉强自己理性客观做了选择。
We are obviously ordinary, unwitting travellers, and now we are able to disperse, and if anything should happen to us, I cannot say with 100 mouths that you will judge me maliciously, who will listen to me? After ruling out some information, I forced myself to make a rational and objective choice.
我特别焦虑，我不知道今天安排了一个地方，明天又将何去何从。
I am very anxious. I don't know where to go today and where to go tomorrow.
我不知道离开时对的？还是留下来是对的。
I don't know whether I was right when I left or whether I was right to stay.
火车上能去哪儿呢，火车上只能保证吃住，这个地方下不了站就再坐去别的地方。
Where can I go by train? I can only have food and shelter on the train. I can't get off this place and sit somewhere else.
但这么流窜也不是个事儿。
But it's not the same thing.
昨天群里有人分享了其他城市的自由互助群，海南的、广州的、厦门的、长沙的，我相信有很多地方他们慢慢在组建群，老乡有一些好心的，我们在网络上聚到一起了，大家一起想办法互相帮忙。
Yesterday some people in the group shared the free mutual help groups of other cities, Hainan's, Guangzhou's, Xiamen's, Changsha's, I believe there are many places they are slowly forming a group, the villagers have some kind-hearted, we get together on the network, we try to help each other.
我想过这个问题，能不能找一个途径，各省市、各地方的媒体能够反映一下我们的情况，相关部门能够妥善地来安置一下我们这拨人。
I have thought about this question, can we find a way, the provincial and local media can reflect our situation, the relevant departments can properly place our group of people.
昨天有个群友，他说的那个话特别好，他就说，既然国家给的建议是所有全国人民都原地安置，听官方的建议，好好的消毒，自我保护，自我隔离不要乱窜。
Yesterday there was a group of friends who said that particularly well, and he said that since the advice of the State was that all the people of the country should be settled in place, on the advice of the authorities, properly disinfected, self-protected, and isolated.
既然这样倡导，湖北省内、在家里隔离的那部分人，全国人民还每天关心、问候，给物资，想办法援助。
Since such advocacy, the people in Hubei province, isolated at home, the people throughout the country also care, greet, give goods, and find ways to help.
在外面已经生了病的，也会马上隔离，不可能你得了病大家不管你。
If you're sick outside, you'll be quarantined right away. You're sick and no one cares about you.
我们这部分很模棱两可，不上不下的人，没有人管，但其实这部分人的隐患也是最大的。
This part of us is very ambiguous, do not go up and down people, no one in charge, but in fact this part of the hidden danger is also the largest.
我们流散在各地，无家可归，每一个城市都是散播的点，如果不能集中管理，我们又没办法进行自我隔离，你今天把我赶出这个酒店，明天我就得去另一个酒店，在路上转移的过程流动性，有多大的危险？你不把我们集中，这样不行的。
We are scattered and homeless, every city is a point of dispersal, and if it cannot be managed centrally, we cannot isolate ourselves. You drive me out of this hotel today, and tomorrow I have to go to another hotel.
我们自己去哪都不去了，那些老人、小孩、一大家子、怀着孕的大肚子孕妇，他们怎么办？大家都是人，只是这些人，他不是你的亲生父母，不是你的兄弟姐妹，你可能感受没那么深而已。
We're not going anywhere on our own. What about the old people, the kids, the big family, the pregnant women who are pregnant? Everyone's human, just these people, he's not your biological parent, he's not your sibling, you might not feel that deep.
我们又没有做错什么。
We didn't do anything wrong.
你要愿意收我就收，不能收我没有办法，我也只能默默配合，你要怕我就躲远一点，大家都是普通的人，也都很善良，我们能怎么办？昨天告诉我们这两天行程取消，我马上答应了，只希望这两天有安置。
If you are willing to accept me, can not accept I have no choice, I can only silently cooperate, you must be afraid of me to hide a little bit, everyone is ordinary people, are very kind, we can do? Yesterday told us that the two-day itinerary canceled, I immediately agreed, just hope that there are two days for placement.
今天早上一起来说，安置酒店相应政府要求，暂停营业。
This morning together, the hotel accommodation corresponding to the Government's request, suspended business.
所以我们就变成了今天也没有地方住。
So we became what we are today and we have no place to live.
也有朋友告诉我们说，你要不要去长沙？去那找你的亲戚，找同学，我们想过这个问题，因为我说我不确定，就算我潜伏期过了，我确认自己十分健康，我们也不太愿意去麻烦别人，现在的歧视太严重了，我去了之后我不但影响自己，可能还影响别人好心收留我的一家人，闹得大家跟我一起被隔离，这还算最基础的影响。
Some friends told us, do you want to go to Changsha? Go to your relatives, look for classmates, we thought about this problem, because I said I am not sure, even after the incubation period, I confirmed that we are very healthy, we are not willing to trouble others.
还不算影响太大，可能影响再大一点，我可能影响到别人说你家里有湖北人，公司都不让你上门，这个例子不是我自己臆想出来的。
I may influence others to say that there are Hubei people in your house and the company won't let you come to your house.
我有朋友移民了美国，现在美国确诊两例了，对吧？他在美国西雅图定居，她的公公婆婆常年在武汉，但她的公公婆婆比我出发的时间还要早，可能就1月10号中旬就已经去美国跟他们准备过春节了，现在他们在西雅图居住的社区也知道了他们家里有湖北人，他嫂子所在的美国公司就直接通知说：你暂时不要来上班了。
I had a friend who emigrated to the United States and now two cases are diagnosed in the U.S. Right He settled in Seattle, her mother-in-law was in Wuhan all year long, but her mother-in-law had been in the United States for the Spring Festival as early as mid-January 10.
我也不能对人家凶，那有什么办法？这样只会让别人对湖北人印象更不好。
I can not be vicious to others, what can be done? This will only make the impression on Hubei people more bad.
明明这个问题核心是对病毒的恐惧，结果变成了对湖北人的恐惧，这是不公平的。
At the heart of the problem is the fear of the virus, which turns out to be an unfair fear of Hubei people.
谁说这个病毒它的名字叫湖北了？现在我说句很公道的话，各个省市都已经出现了感染人群，病毒的感染性也确认了人传人，还有进行二次的非经过武汉和湖北地区的传播性，全国各地都有这样的病毒的隐患，这个隐患也不是全部潜伏在湖北人的身上。
Who said the virus its name is Hubei? Now I say very fair, all provinces and municipalities have been infected with the virus and confirmed the infection of human-to-human transmission, as well as secondary non-through Wuhan and Hubei areas, there are hidden dangers throughout the country, this hidden danger is not all lurking in Hubei people.
云南省文化和旅游厅公告与王安平通话后，下午她发来一张云南省文化和旅游厅的公告，公告显示：请各州市在2020年1月26日18：00前确定一家宾馆饭店统一提供给疫区滞留在当地的游客集中住宿。
Yunnan's Ministry of Culture and Tourism announced that after calling Wang Anping, she sent a notice this afternoon from Yunnan's Ministry of Culture and Tourism. The notice said that all states and municipalities were requested to confirm by 18: 00 on January 26, 2020 that a hotel and hotel would provide a centralized accommodation for tourists stranded in the affected areas.
本刊记者向云南文化和旅游厅核实，确认了此通告的真实性。
This print reporter to Yunnan Department of Culture and Tourism to verify the authenticity of this circular.
下午15时，王安平入住了群主帮忙联系的酒店，一天180元，她办了五天，前台说还可以续。
At 15: 00 p.m., Wang Anping checked into the group to help contact the hotel, 180 yuan a day, she did five days, the front desk said can be renewed.
“这让我稍微安心了一些。
"It reassures me a little.
”她说。
'she said.
群内信息显示，该酒店有45间房，并不能完全容纳滞留旅客。
According to group information, the hotel has 45 rooms and does not fully accommodate the stranded passengers.
截至发稿时间，该群仍在紧张的陆续协调中。
By the time it was released, the group was still in a state of intense coordination.
群主协调好了今天的酒店并在群内公布（为保护口述者隐私，文中王安平为化名）征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
The group coordinates today's hotel and announces (in order to protect the oral privacy, Wang Anping's pseudonym) that the true story of the epidemic area is collected and our fate recorded. The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of New Crown Pneumonia, writing about stories you are experiencing or witnessing.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、记者热线（同微信）：13918532564、136314839362、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
How to contribute: 1. Journalist hotline (tweets): 13918532564, 136314839362, Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo Discussion Topic: # I have words in the affected areas # Please make sure that the contents are true, objective, rational, do not rumor and do not spread rumors.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
回不了家的武汉人。
Wuhan people who can not go home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "回不了家的武汉人";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; who cannot return home.
var msg_desc = "“问题核心是对病毒的恐惧，变成了对湖北人的恐惧”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; fear of Hubei people.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
