表面“抗疫”，背地敛财，蛋壳自如上演趁火打劫狗血剧。
On the surface, "anti-epidemic", back to the accumulation of wealth, egg shell easy to stage a bloodbath.
周雄飞。
Zhou Xiongfei.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/周雄飞编辑/大风据锌财经了解，从1月31日开始，武汉、北京、杭州和深圳等地很多与蛋壳公寓签约的房主都接到了蛋壳官方的“拜年”电话，并且被通知：由于疫情影响，响应国家号召，要免去一定时间的房租。
Since Jan. 31, many owners of egg-shell apartments in Wuhan, Beijing, Hangzhou and Shenzhen have received official New Year's Eve calls from eggshell owners and have been told to avoid paying rent due to the epidemic, according to Zinc Finance.
还没等到接话询问，对方就已经挂了电话，再打过去不是占线就是无人接听。
Before waiting to answer the question, the other party has already hung up the phone, and then call the line busy or no one answer.
与此同时，蛋壳公寓在官方微博上发布了一个“租金返还政策”，该政策表示将对于武汉市的租客进行1个月的租金返还，同时对于其他城市的租客按照延期返工的时间返还相应天数租金。
Meanwhile, eggshell apartments have published a "rent refund policy" on official microblogs, which says renters in Wuhan will be paid rent for one month, while tenants in other cities will be reimbursed for the same number of days on deferred rework.
蛋壳公寓官方微博上的“租金返还政策” 图源网络然而，大多数租客对此并不知晓，反而一些人在交完租金后才知道此事，打客服电话进行询问未果。
However, most renters do not know about this. Instead, some people only learn about it after paying the rent and call the customer service to inquire.
一时间，蛋壳公寓的“两头吃”做法在房东和租客们的抗议声中被“送”上了微博热搜。
For a while, the "two-headed" approach to eggshell apartments was "fermented" by landlords and renters amid protests from landlords and tenants.
就像说好的一样，自如在前两天也被曝出趁疫情期间租客不便搬家换租，肆意哄抬租金。
As agreed, in the first two days of easy exposure during the outbreak of the tenant is not easy to move rent, wanton inflated rent.
此消息一出，虽然官方作出解释，但仍在众多自如租客的愤怒下，让其继蛋壳之后登上热搜。
The news, although the official explanation, but still in a large number of easy tenants angry, after the eggshell boarded the hot search.
自如CEO熊林就“租金涨价”进行朋友圈解释 图源网络就这样，蛋壳公寓和自如左手做着“公益”抗击疫情，右手却把钱往自己口袋里装，在这一系列花式操作下闷声发着“国难财”。
In this way, eggshell apartments and left-handed people fight the epidemic, while the right hand holds money in their pockets, stifling "national wealth" under a series of tricks.
而最后为其买单的，却是这些深受疫情影响的房东和租客们。
It was the landlords and tenants affected by the epidemic who ultimately paid for it.
被通知的免租“蛋壳打电话过来，说由于疫情影响，为了补贴无法返程居住的租客，要免去我3个月的房租，态度很强硬，完全就是一种通知。
The notified rent-free eggshell called to say that, due to the epidemic, it was a notice to waive my rent for three months in order to subsidize tenants who could not return to their homes.
”“当时心里就只有愤怒和不知所措。
'Then there was nothing but anger and confusion.
”聂女士对锌财经表示。
Nie told Zinc Finance.
之所以会有这样的心情，是因为这份房租对她来说很重要。
She was in such a mood because the rent was important to her.
因为在每月的房租拿到手之后，聂女士还得在用工资贴一部分钱才能够还得起每个月的房贷支出。
After getting her monthly rent in hand, Nie still has to use her salary to put up some money to pay her monthly mortgage payments.
更重要的是，如果真的执行免租，那就意味着之后的三个月她收不到一分钱。
More importantly, if rent-free, that means she won't get a penny for the next three months.
对此，聂女士多次拨打蛋壳客服，但一直被告知要排队，没有办法的她只能向武汉的一些政府平台进行投诉，“如果在疫情结束后，蛋壳不给我房租的话，我会选择报警”聂女士这样说。
Nie has repeatedly called eggshell customer service, but has been told to line up, no way she can only complain to Wuhan some government platforms, "if the end of the epidemic, eggshell will not give me rent, I will choose to call the police," Nie said.
房主与蛋壳公寓的聊天记录 图源受访者其实，这样的遭遇不仅发生在像是聂女士这样的武汉房主身上，在北京和杭州的很多业主也表示遇到了同样的事情。
Survey results show that this happened not only to Wuhan-based homeowners such as Nie, but also to many homeowners in Beijing and Hangzhou.
王女士是北京的一位房主，在2月4日她也接到了蛋壳公寓的电话，对方在电话中表示由于疫情“不可抗力”的影响，房子处于空置期，因此将要免去一个月的房租。
Ms. Wang, a Beijing homeowner, also got a call from her eggshell apartment on Feb. 4, saying the house was vacant due to force majeure and would be spared one month's rent.
听到这些，王女士就立即表示了不同意，但还没等她说完对方已经挂掉了电话。
On hearing this, Ms. Wang immediately expressed her disagreement, but before she could finish she hung up the phone.
“当时真的很愤怒，这等于说同不同意都得执行。
"There was real anger, which was tantamount to saying and disagreeing had to be carried out.
”随即，她了解到自己的房子并不存在空置。
"Then she realized that there was no vacancy in her house.
于此，王女士再次拨打蛋壳的客服电话，“要么是打不通一直占线，要么就是各种推诿最后挂掉电话。
At this point, Ms. Wang again called eggshell customer service calls, "either through the busy line, or various prevarication finally hung up the phone.
”而在当时，很多房东已经在网上在反映和控诉蛋壳公寓，表示蛋壳公寓在“套路”房主——恶意免租欺骗房主，一时间上了微博热搜。
At the time, many landlords were already reporting and complaining about eggshell apartments online, suggesting that condominiums were being used by homeowners - maliciously rent-free - to deceive homeowners for a brief period of micro-blogging.
蛋壳公寓或许为了维稳，在2月7日给全国房主群发了一条短信，其内容表示：对于近期网传的蛋壳公寓“套路房东”等传言纯属谣言，请您不信谣不传谣。
A text message sent to homeowners across the country on Feb. 7, perhaps to reassure them, said: "Rumors of a recent Internet-passed eggshell apartment" landlordship "are just rumours. Please don't spread rumors.
受访者发过来的短信内容 图源受访者和其他房主一样，杭州房主莎女士也收到了这条短信。
Like other homeowners, Hangzhou homeowner Ms. Sha received the text message.
“当时看到这条短信时，就感觉像吃了苍蝇一样恶心。
"The sight of the note made me feel as sick as a fly.
”这是因为她在之前同样接到了蛋壳的电话，通知里除了免除房租之外，还告知租金将会延迟一个月打到账户中。
"This was because she had also received a phone call from her eggshell informing her that, in addition to the rent exemption, the rent would be delayed by one month.
对此，锌财经立即向多位房东进行求证，最后的答复都是一致的。
In this regard, Zinc Finance immediately to a number of landlords to verify the final answer is consistent.
除此之外，据锌财经了解，在众多房主中还有很多人并没有接到蛋壳的电话，就直接被免去了房租。
In addition, according to Zinc Finance, many homeowners do not receive eggshell phone calls, they are directly exempt from the rent.
“如果不是我告诉我姐姐，她还不知道免租这件事，还在傻傻的等着房租。
"She would have waited foolishly for the rent if I hadn't told her she didn't know it.
”然而，让这些房主更没有想到的是，他们被迫献出的这些“爱心”，并没有真正落实到租客身上。
What the homeowners did not realize, however, was that the "love" they were forced to give did not really apply to the tenants.
相反，租客们还在往外掏钱。
Instead, tenants are paying out.
在“减免”与“涨价”中进行收割对于租客的“收割”上，蛋壳公寓和自如可谓是都打了一手“好算盘”。
Harvesting in "Remission" and "Price Increases." Egg-shell apartments and ease can be called "good abacus" for tenants "harvesting.
2月3日，蛋壳公寓官方微博更新了一条动态，内容是一个“租客租金返还政策”，该政策表示将对于武汉和其他城市无法返程的租客进行针对性的补贴方案。
On February 3, the official Weibo of the Egg Shell Apartment updated an update on a "renter rent return policy," which promises targeted subsidies to tenants who cannot return to Wuhan and other cities.
与此同时，在其App中也上线了该政策。
At the same time, the policy was put on line in its App.
蛋壳公寓App首页上的“租客减免通知” 图源受访者但是，经过锌财经的采访发现，大多数租客表示对该政策并不知晓，并且还“准时”收到了蛋壳的催租短信并交了房租。
But after an interview with Zinc Finance, the majority of renters said they were unaware of the policy and that they received their shell-pressing text messages and paid their rent on time.
小文就是这样一个租客，“2月3日我收到了催租短信，在交完租之后才听朋友说才知道了这个方案。
Xiao Wen is such a tenant, "February 3 I received a reminder of the rental text messages, after paying the rent before listening to friends said that the program only known.
”小文对锌财经说。
"Xiao Wen told Zinc Finance.
她告诉锌财经，由于当时看中了蛋壳的装修风格就签了租房合同，期间住着感觉一直还不错，直到这次疫情看透了这家公司。
She told Zinc Finance that she signed a rental contract because she liked the way the eggshell was decorated, and she felt good about living there until the outbreak hit the company.
就在她知道这个返还政策后，就立刻进行了申请，却发现需要等到10号才能申请。
As soon as she knew about the return policy, she applied, only to find that she had to wait until the 10th.
于是，小文在10号上午再次进行申请，结果是申请成功，但返还租金需要等到3月2日才能到账。
So Xiao Wen applied again on the morning of the 10th and the application was successful, but the rent will not be paid until March 2.
然而，就在小文要关掉页面时发现了下政策中最下行的小字，上面写着“返还租金（分期月付除外）”。
However, just as Xiao Wen was about to turn off the page, he found the most downlink of the policy, which said, "Rent refunds (except monthly installments)."
“看完这行小字，就意识到这个返还的租金我并不能以租金方式使用，真的气死了。
"After reading this line of small print, I realized that I could not use the refunded rent as a rent. I was really angry.
”政策中的隐形限制 图源受访者对此，锌财经求证了蛋壳的一位内部人员，他表示这次的返还租金是无法适用于抵扣月付租金的，只能用来抵扣其他费用。
Zinc Finance corroborated an insider in the eggshell who said the rent rebate was not applicable to monthly rent deductions but only to other costs.
这也意味着，这次的租金返还对于大多数选择月付的蛋壳租客来说，是一个隐形的限制。
It also means that the rent rebate is an invisible limit for most egg-shell renters who choose to pay monthly.
李圆同样也是一个倒在这个限制前的租客。
Li Yuan was also a tenant who fell in front of the restriction.
“要不是要在App上续租，这个返租政策，我怕是这一年都看不到这个东西了。
"If it weren't for the lease renewal on the App, I'm afraid I wouldn't have seen it for a year.
”经过多次的申请后，最后她得到了“不符合申请条件”的结果。
After several applications, she ended up with an "unqualified" result.
而让她更加气愤的是，在和蛋壳管家进行沟通后，对方表示续租如果选择月付，服务费和租金都会上涨；而年付，费用不会上涨。
What makes her even more angry is that, after communicating with the butler of the eggshell, the other party says that if he chooses to pay the monthly fee, the service fee and the rent will increase.
“这就是怂恿我多掏钱，当时干脆的选择了月付，大不了多掏钱点，等找好房子就搬走。
"This is to encourage me to pay more money, then simply chose to pay the month, more than pay more money, waiting to find a good house to move.
”李圆这样说。
"said Li Yuan.
受访者与蛋壳管家聊天记录 图源受访者在续租这件事上，小方也遇到了同样的情况，但不同的是，公司换成了自如。
The same thing happened to Xiao Fang when it came to renting an egg-shell housekeeper, but the company did so with ease.
小方是北京的自如租客，她原本准备在2月到期换房子，但由于疫情无法回去，所以只能选择续租，同样在与管家沟通中，她了解到如果现在要续租，那么房租将会上涨3%。
Xiao Fang, a comfortable tenant in Beijing, was due to change her house in February, but could not return due to the outbreak of the disease, so she chose to renew it. Also in communication with the housekeeper, she understood that if she wanted to renew it now, the rent would increase by 3%.
对于房租上涨原因，管家解释称“新价格为根据市场行情制定”，这个说法同样可以在自如客服那里看到。
As for the reasons for the rise, the housekeeper explained that "the new price is set according to market conditions," a statement that can also be found in casual customer service.
但根据链家数据显示，以北京为例，今年1月平均月租金82.84元/平方米，环比微增1.68%，但比去年1月下降2.9%。
But in January, for example, the average monthly rent was 82.84 yuan per square meter, a slight increase of 1.68 percent over the previous year, but 2.9 percent lower than in January, according to the chain.
自如客服回复“租金涨价”一事 图源受访者这也就是说，自如的这波续租涨价是不合理的。
From: Lynn Chen, Financial Department Date: April 2nd, 2004Subject: Casual Leave of AbsencePeter, I would like to know if you can let me know.
虽然这样，但最后小方还是选择了续租。
Despite this, but in the end small Fang chose to renew the lease.
“当时就觉得就是在发国难财，但没办法，这个时候找房子也不现实，只能继续签约一个月。
"At that time, I felt that it was difficult to make money in China, but I could not help it.
”小方对锌财经无奈地说。
"Xiao Fang said helplessly to Zinc Finance.
从蛋壳公寓通知房主免租、再到自如、蛋壳对租客的“双双收割”，就此完全坐实了发“国难财”的罪名。
Notify homeowners from eggshell apartment rent-free, and then to ease, eggshell to tenants "double harvest", this completely sitting on the charge of "national wealth."
对此，一些房主和租客除了愤怒和失望，同时也想着一个问题：在这样的疫情下，这俩公司还这样做，是真的在作死吗？吃相难看的“两只鸵鸟”“鸵鸟遇到危险的时候，会把脑袋埋进土里，以便自认为已经脱离险境。
Some homeowners and renters, in addition to their anger and disappointment, wonder whether the companies are really killing themselves in the face of an epidemic like this.Eat two ostriches When they are in danger, they bury their heads in the ground to think they are out of danger.
”这个现象最早是在《自然志》中提到的，放到现代一般来比喻自欺欺人的人或事。
The phenomenon was first mentioned in the Nature Chronicle, and in modern times it is often used to describe people or things who deceive themselves.
而在此刻，蛋壳公寓和自如像极了把头埋进土里的两只鸵鸟。
At the moment, the eggshell apartment and the two ostriches so easy as to bury their heads in the earth.
自事件发生到网络上舆论发酵，这两家长租公寓官方基本上没有做过什么像样的解释和表态。
Since the incident on the Internet to ferment public opinion, these two parents rent apartment officials have done little decent explanation and position.
虽然自如CEO熊林在2月10日在其朋友圈中对于续租涨价进行了解释，并且将这个解释同步到了自己的微博上，但租客表示并不接受，由此很快就自行删除，之后再无任何解释。
Although Xiong Lin, a comfortable CEO, explained the rent increase in his circle of friends on Feb. 10 and synchronized it to his microblog, the tenant said he did not accept it and quickly deleted it without explanation.
相比于自如来说，蛋壳官方做的更是干脆利索。
The eggshell is officially more crisp than it is at ease.
打开蛋壳公寓官方微博可以看到，最近的一条微博还停留在2月10日，之后再无任何解释。
Open eggshell apartment official microblog can see, the most recent micro-blog stays on February 10, after which no further explanation.
蛋壳公寓和自如官方微博图源网络就这样，这两只鸵鸟都把头埋进了土里，纵使舆论怎么走向，都好像和他们没有关系，并露出了一副“我就这样做了，你能拿我怎么着？”的态度。
The eggshell apartment and the freely official microblogging network were so that both ostriches buried their heads in the ground, as if they had nothing to do with them, even though the public opinion was directed, and displayed a "I did it, what can you do with me?" attitude.
一个问题就出现了：蛋壳公寓和自如作为长租公寓这条赛道上的头部企业，而前者在1月27日刚在纳斯达克上市，为什么会在这样的一个时刻来走这样一步险棋？对于这个问题的答案，或许在蛋壳公寓的上市招股书中可以看出一些端倪。
The answer to the question of egg-shell apartments and head-on businesses that can easily rent a long-lived apartment, which only went on the NASDAQ on January 27, is perhaps evident in the listing prospectus for eggshell apartments.
据招股书显示，蛋壳公寓在2017到2019年前9个月的营收一直是正的，但亏损也同样存在。
According to the prospectus, eggshell apartments have been positive for the first nine months of 2017 to 2019, but so have losses.
招股书显示，2019年前9个月，净亏损为人民币25.16亿元，2018年同期为净亏损人民币8.13亿元。
In the first nine months of 2019, net losses were 2.516 billion yuan, compared with 813 million yuan in 2018, according to the prospectus.
同时，还有一个地方需要注意，据招股书显示，2017年、2018年和2019年前九个月，蛋壳公寓使用“租金贷”的租客占比分别为91.3%、75.8%和65.7%。
At the same time, it should be noted that, according to the prospectus, 91.3 per cent, 75.8 per cent and 65.7 per cent of tenancies in eggshell apartments used "rent loans" in 2017, 2018 and the first nine months of 2019 respectively.
这就意味着蛋壳公寓的主要营收是来自于“租金贷”，而对于“租金贷”的危害，其实从去年纷纷暴雷的长租公寓品牌的暴雷中就可以看到。
That means condominiums earn most of their income from "rent loans," which can be seen in last year's storm of rental apartments.
由此，在去年12月，六部委印发《关于整顿规范住房租赁市场秩序的意见》，要求住房租赁企业租金收入中，住房租金贷款金额占比不得超过30%。
Thus, in December last year, the six ministries issued the Opinions on Regulating the Order of the Housing Leasing Market, requiring that the rental income of housing rental enterprises should not exceed 30 percent of the total rental income.
从招股书中的数据来看，蛋壳公寓“租金贷”比例远超于国家“红线”标准。
From the prospectus data, egg shell apartment "rent loan" ratio far exceeds the national "red line" standard.
因此，蛋壳公寓虽然已上市，但需要补的漏洞还是很大，这点今年年初就已呈现出来。
So even though eggshell apartments are on the market, there are still big holes to be filled, as was evident earlier this year.
今年1月，脉脉中就有人曝光蛋壳公寓疑似变相裁员，员工工资只发放北京最低标准的1500元。
In January, someone in the pulse exposed a suspected disguised lay-off at an egg-shell apartment, paying Beijing's minimum wage of 1,500 yuan.
而对于此事，锌财经向蛋壳公寓的内部人员求证，对方表示并没有这回事。
For this matter, Zinc Finance to egg shell apartment insiders to verify, the other side said that this is not the case.
蛋壳已是这样，对于同样使用“租金贷”的自如来讲，虽然“租金贷”比例并没有蛋壳高，但去年也身陷“甲醛房”“黑中介”等舆论中无法自拔，所以日子可能并不比蛋壳公寓好过多少。
The same is true of eggshells, which, although not as high as eggshells, may not be much better off last year as they are mired in public opinion such as formaldehyde houses and black middlemen.
但即使这样，也不是这两家公司可以做出如此“吃相难看”事情的理由。
But even that is not the reason why the two companies can do so much "ugly."
“抗击疫情，应该是全社会所有成员都应该做的事情，而像蛋壳公寓和自如在此期间只关注商业逐利，而不承担社会责任，这样的做法是非常不合理的。
"The fight against the epidemic should be something that all members of society should do, and it makes no sense to have egg-shell apartments and be able to focus on business for profit without social responsibility."
”房产行业分析师房小旗对锌财经这样说。
Housing industry analyst Fang Xiaoqi told Zinc Finance.
事情发展到现在，对于蛋壳公寓和自如“捞完钱不反应”的作为，很多房主和租客们表示正做着相应的工作来为自己的权利进行维权。
So far, many homeowners and renters have said they are doing their bit to defend their rights in egg-shell apartments and "cash-stowaways."
据锌财经了解，北京、武汉和杭州等地的房主们已经建立了相应的维权群，并已做好了打官司的准备。
According to Zinc Finance, homeowners in Beijing, Wuhan and Hangzhou have set up groups to defend their rights and are ready to take legal action.
蛋壳公寓房东维权群 图源受访者虽然现在并不能预测到这件事最后的结果，但可以肯定的是，蛋壳公寓和自如在消费者的心中的形象已荡然无存。
Egg shell apartment landlord rights group source Although the interviewee can not predict the final outcome of this matter, but it is certain that the eggshell apartment and comfortable in the minds of consumers no longer exist.
而对于这两家公司来说，他们的原罪或许是忘记了一个事实：“水能载舟，也亦能覆舟”这句话，也适用于消费者和公司。
For both companies, their original sin may have been to forget the fact that "water can carry a boat or overturn it," which applies to consumers and companies alike.
（应受访者要求，文中王女士、莎女士、小文、李圆、小方均为化名）。
(At the request of the interviewee, Ms. Wang, Ms. Sha, Xiao Wen, Li Yuan and Xiao Fang are all aliases).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
表面“抗疫”，背地敛财，蛋壳自如上演趁火打劫狗血剧。
On the surface, "anti-epidemic", back to the accumulation of wealth, egg shell easy to stage a bloodbath.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "表面“抗疫”，背地敛财，蛋壳自如上演趁火打劫狗血剧";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "真所谓是“前方吃紧，后方紧吃”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
