专访薇娅：疫情下，人性至上。
Interview with Via: Under the epidemic situation, human nature first.
雷成林。
Lei Cheng Lin.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/雷成林编辑/大风突然爆发的疫情几乎让所有的线下门店停摆。
The sudden outbreak of Wen / Lei Cheng Lin's editor / gale brought almost all the offline stores to a standstill.
在实体业溃败之后，电商护住了城市的血脉，快递员、外卖小哥、线上买菜维持着城市的运转。
After the collapse of the real industry, electric merchants protected the city's bloodlines, couriers, takeaway brothers, and online shopping to keep the city afloat.
在农村，疫情导致各地封村封路，所有的线下交易暂停，农户的果蔬被滞留在地里。
In the countryside, the epidemic has led to the sealing of villages, the suspension of all off-line transactions and the holding of farmers' fruits and vegetables in the fields.
人民日报联合淘宝发起“爱心助农”行动，设立10亿助农基金，开通绿色物流专线，打开滞销农产品的销路。
People's Daily jointly launched the "love to help farmers" campaign, set up a billion farmers' funds, opened a special green logistics line, opened the market for unmarketable agricultural products.
在这场战“疫”的后方，阿里、京东多家平台邀请医学专家直播，针对新冠型病毒做详细解答，给人们吃下定心丸。
In the rear of the battle "epidemic," Ali, Jingdong a number of platforms invited medical experts live, for the new coronary virus to do a detailed solution, to give people a tranquil pill.
但更多的人充当着红细胞的角色，为湖北输送物资。
But more people act as red blood cells, carrying supplies to Hubei.
大年三十凌晨，薇娅紧急筹备口罩、消毒水和即时食品等价值100万的物资，输送到武汉两家定点医院，又捐款100万。
In the early morning of New Year's Eve, Via rushed to prepare 1 million worth of masks, disinfectant water and instant food, and sent them to two designated hospitals in Wuhan, donating another million.
从明星捐款单看得出，她是捐款最早，捐款数额最大的公众人物之一。
As can be seen from the celebrity endowment, she was one of the oldest and largest contributors to the public.
从疫情爆发直到现在，薇娅的直播间不断有粉丝询问口罩的链接。
From the outbreak until now, Via's studio has had fans asking for links to masks.
需求意味着流量，但薇娅没有上过口罩。
Demand means traffic, but Viya doesn't wear a mask.
她反复解释，“不用再刷了，现在的口罩都没有质量保障，即使有，也应该捐到前线更需要的人手上。
"No more brushing," she explained repeatedly. "There is no quality assurance of face masks, and if they do, they should be donated to those more in need on the front lines."
”淘宝粉丝接近1500万，双十一销售额30亿，单场最高观看量4000万……数字足以说明薇娅在淘宝直播“销售女王”的地位。
Taobao has nearly 15 million fans, 11 billion double sales and a top view of 40 million... the figures are enough to show Via's status as the "sales queen" on Taobao.
她的举动是行业的风向标，通过她可以窥见整个行业在这场疫情中所做的努力。
Her actions are a bellwether for the industry, through which she can take a look at the industry's efforts in the epidemic.
以下是锌财经专访薇娅内容：锌财经：大概是在什么时候你们的直播间开始讨论新型肺炎这事？薇娅：其实在春节的第一天也就是年初一的晚上我就开了直播，和大家来讨论新型肺炎的事件。
When did you start talking about the new pneumonia in your studio? Via: Actually, on the first day of the Spring Festival, on the evening of the New Year's Day, I had a live broadcast to discuss the new type of pneumonia.
当时我就是觉得需要第一时间提高大家的防护意识，因为一开始可能很多人还没有真正意识到事态的严重性；第二就是和大家科普官方提出的防护措施，例如戴口罩、勤洗手、不聚会等等；最后是安抚和互相勉励，希望大家不信谣、不传谣，科学防疫，一起加油。
At the time, I just felt the need to improve our sense of defense first, because many people probably didn't realize the seriousness of the situation at first. Second, we should take some measures to protect people from wearing masks, washing their hands frequently, not meeting, and so on.
锌财经：新型肺炎爆发对于您产生了什么影响？薇娅：最大的影响就是心态吧。
Zinc Finance: What's the impact of the new pneumonia outbreak on you? VIA: The biggest impact is the mentality.
因为我知道现在大家出门不便，很多薇娅的女人告诉我，他们缺吃的、缺用的、缺口罩、缺消毒水等等。
Because I know it's hard for people to get out of the house right now, and many of Via's women tell me that they lack food, food, shelter, disinfectant, and so on.
我一开始非常着急，一方面工厂没法正常开工，第二个即使有库存，现在物流很多也发不出去。
I was very anxious at first, on the one hand, the factory can not start normal, the second even if the inventory, now a lot of logistics can not go out.
但是我的团队还是一直在坚持，尽可能地去找，去满足大家，帮助大家。
But my team is still insist on, as far as possible to find, to meet everyone, to help everyone.
当然对我还有一个影响就是我能有更多的时间陪伴我的家人。
And of course one of the other effects on me is that I can spend more time with my family.
可能很多在外工作的游子和我一样，陪着父母孩子的时间不多。
Maybe a lot of the expats who work outside are like me, spending little time with their parents and kids.
外面疫情防控，那我们就管好小家，让家里更温暖。
Outdoor disease prevention and control, then we will manage the small family, let the home warmer.
锌财经：大年初一，在您的直播间看见一个短视频，上面显示您捐了总价值约为100万元的物资。
Zinc Finance: New Year's Day, in your studio to see a short video, it shows you donated a total value of about 1 million yuan.
是什么促使您想到为武汉捐物资的？薇娅：其实是我在年二十九就看到很多疫情新闻以及武汉一线医院的物资已经开始亮红灯的报道，所以非常担心如果医院物资缺乏，一线医护人员就会很危险。
What prompted you to think of donating materials to Wuhan? VIA: Actually, I saw a lot of news about the epidemic at 29 years old and the materials of Wuhan First-Class Hospital started to go red, so I'm very worried about the danger of front-line medical staff if the hospital is short of supplies.
除了口罩和消毒水这些医疗物资之外，我还看到几个医生的微博，发现他们因为各种原因现在没法好好吃饭，经常以泡面应付一下。
In addition to medical supplies such as masks and disinfectant, I also saw microblogs of several doctors who, for various reasons, were unable to eat properly and were often treated with noodles.
我们就很担心医护人员的营养跟不上，于是立即准备了相对更健康营养的速食或者自热食品，希望他们能吃上热饭。
Worried that health-care workers were undernourished, we immediately prepared fast-food or self-heating foods that were relatively healthy and nutritious, hoping that they could eat hot meals.
他们更需要照顾好自己的身体。
They need to take better care of their bodies.
锌财经：了解到您不仅捐了钱，还捐了物。
Zinc Finance: I understand that you have not only donated money, but also donated things.
在这种情况下，筹到合格的医用产品很难，您大概是什么时候开始筹备的？如何选择符合标准的产品？薇娅：捐钱是希望我能为一线医疗团队的建设和保障做出一点点的贡献，但是除此之外，我作为一名主播，而且是全品类主播，我希望我能用自己的经验和资源，尽可能更多地帮助到一线的医护人员，贡献一点点力量。
Under these circumstances, it is difficult to raise qualified medical products. When did you probably begin to prepare them? Via: I hope I can contribute a little to the building and maintenance of the first-line medical team, but beyond that, as a anchor and a full-fledged anchor, I hope I can use my experience and resources to help as many frontline medical personnel as possible.
我们从年29晚上决定要做这件事，一直到大年三十的凌晨三四点，团队很多同事都响应号召，自发加入到工作中，寻找和筛选审核符合要求的货源。
We decided to do this from the 29th night of this year until the mid-morning of New Year's Eve, many colleagues on the team responded to the call and volunteered to join the work to find and screen the qualified sources of goods.
因为时间紧急，为了保证品质，所以我们都是从已经合作过的品牌中一家一家去联系，到了大年三十的晚上就全部确认合作了。
Because the time is urgent, in order to ensure the quality, so we have cooperated from one brand to another to contact, by the end of the New Year's Eve all confirmed the cooperation.
锌财经：如何联系到武汉的医院的？薇娅：因为一开始网上有很多的捐款渠道和热线，我们也有考虑过直接捐赠给官方机构，这样对我们来说是更加方便的。
Via: Because of the large number of donation channels and hotlines on the Internet at the beginning, we also considered donating them directly to official organs, which would be more convenient for us.
但是，我们想更快将物资直接送到一线医护人员手上，所以当下决定还是争取直接联系医院。
But we wanted to get supplies directly to front-line health care workers faster, so it was decided to go straight to the hospital.
于是公关部根据网上的公开信息，先筛选出武汉第一批定点医院，尤其是相对不是最热门的医院，因为我们担心可能这些医院受到的关注少，会更加缺物资。
Therefore, the Public Relations Department, based on the public information on the Internet, first selected Wuhan designated hospitals, especially the relatively not the hottest hospitals, because we fear that these hospitals may receive less attention and more material shortages.
我们花了一天时间，一家家医院打电话联系，同时也发动了各种人脉资源。
We spent a day making phone calls from one hospital to another while also mobilizing a variety of networking resources.
锌财经：运输这么多物资并不是个小工程，尤其现在还是特殊时期，有碰到什么困难吗？薇娅：当时是1月24号大年三十那天，武汉刚封城的前几天所有物资都很难进去。
Via: It was the 30th anniversary of the founding of Wuhan on January 24th, and everything was very hard to get in the first few days of the new year.
我们公关部和招商部的小伙伴从1月24号开始就每天晚上随时待命，分别与商家和医院工作人员沟通物流（当时的顺丰的武汉专线还没有这么正式的开通）。
Our PR and Merchants partners have been on call every night since Jan. 24 to communicate with businessmen and hospital staff respectively (the then-Shunfeng Wuhan Line was not officially opened yet).
打电话给顺丰的工作人员时，工作人员告诉我们，“暂时还没有接到武汉专线的上级命令。
Called Shunfeng staff, staff told us, "for the time being has not received Wuhan special line superior orders.
”所以我们在和商家沟通物流时候也是没有十足的信心一定能立马运上路。
So we do not have full confidence when communicating with the merchants about logistics and will be able to take the road immediately.
又联系了其他的物流公司，后来联系到了中通快递，中通的工作人员了解到我们的物资是援助武汉医院，同意运输。
Contact other logistics companies, and then contact the express, the staff of China Tong understand that our supplies are to help Wuhan hospital, agreed to transport.
公司招商部的小伙伴和商家都很给力，自嗨锅在24号晚上就开始盘货装车了。
Company Merchants Department of small partners and businesses are very strong, since the Hi-Pot in the evening of 24 began to load and load.
运输过程中还遇到了小插曲。
In the course of the transport process also encountered a small episode.
运输车在26号凌晨到达收费站，但因为封城，车被拦截在距离目的地20公里的巨龙收费站，从凌晨3点到早上8点10分车辆还没得到放行。
The transporter arrived at the tollbooth in the early hours of the 26th, but because of the blockade, it was stopped at the Giant Dragon toll station, 20 km from its destination, and the vehicles were not released from 3 a.m. to 8.10 a.m.
特别不巧的是因为24号和25号两天，我们都是基本晚上没睡觉地工作，26号当天都休息了会儿，没有及时看到车辆被拦截的消息。
It was particularly unfortunate because on the 24th and 25th we were all working without sleep for the basic night, and on the 26th we had a short rest and did not see the traffic being stopped in time.
我们醒来后立马和医院工作人员沟通，医院工作人员也在第一时间给到我们介绍信（就是类似一种通行证），车辆才被放行。
As soon as we woke up, we contacted the hospital staff, who gave us a letter of introduction (similar to a pass) immediately before the vehicle was cleared.
我们招商部的宇贤从凌晨3点安抚司机的情绪，一直工作到早上。
Our Merchants Department's Yuxian from 3 a.m. to calm the driver's mood, working until the morning.
终于在1月26号下午1点左右我们的自嗨锅到达湖北省中医院，大家悬着的心也落了地。
Finally on January 26 around 1: 00 p.m. our self-Hi pot arrived in Hubei Province Chinese Hospital, the hearts hanging on the ground also fell.
当时我们都有一种想落泪的冲动。
We all had the urge to cry.
锌财经：新型肺炎的爆发，武汉封城这些事会让您在直播间的选品上做出哪些调整吗？薇娅：除了保质期相对较短的产品，例如一些现食现卖的食品，短时间内可能跟不上，还是会尽量上大家留言表示最想要的产品，因为现在的物流需要更好的配合到疫情的防控，所以大家都能理解运输和收货时间的问题。
VIA Except for products with a relatively short shelf life, such as some ready-to-eat foods, you may not be able to keep up with them any time soon.Via: Well, you probably won't be able to keep up with them any time soon.Via: Except for products with a relatively short shelf life, like some ready-to-eat foods.
我现在直播的目的，更多的就是陪伴粉丝，每天多和大家聊聊家常，聊聊各种好物以及怎么用等等，作为大家的好朋友陪伴在大家身边。
I now live the purpose, more is to accompany the fans, every day with more chat home, chat with all kinds of good things and how to use, and so on, as a good friend to accompany everyone around.
锌财经：您不上合规口罩是因为政府统一管理了，输送到最需要的地方，但是淘宝直播平台里还是可以看见很多主播卖口罩。
Zinc Finance: You don't wear a mask because it is managed centrally by the government and delivered to where it is most needed.
那有粉丝不能接受您的解释吗？会影响您的流量吗？薇娅：粉丝都能理解，因为这是事实，所以并不会有影响。
Are there fans who can't accept your explanation? Does it affect your traffic? Via: Fans can understand, because it's true, so it won't matter.
就像刚刚说的，我的存在是陪伴大家，同时帮大家去找想要的好物，我首先就要保证这个产品它的质量合格、来源渠道合规。
As I just said, my existence is to accompany everyone, and to help you to find the good things you want, I must first ensure that the quality of this product, the source of compliance.
锌财经：现在口罩这么紧缺，身边的亲戚朋友肯定也很需要，那您有通过渠道为他们准备一些吗？薇娅：其实并没有，因为如果有渠道，能够供给医院我就希望帮助一线医护人员，他们才是最需要的。
Are there any channels you can prepare for themVia: Not really, because if there's a way to supply the hospital, I want to help the front-line staff, and they need it the most.
我们现在还是靠朋友“接济”，不过我也希望大家能够和我在直播间一直说的一样，防止疫情传播最好的方式就是不要出门！锌财经：看着确诊数字一天天增加，现在每个人都很焦虑，在您的直播间有这种气氛吗？您又如何安抚他们的？薇娅：我觉得我的直播间焦虑并不多，只是会有一些新朋友进来希望我能帮忙找口罩，但是薇娅的女人都会帮忙解释，因为大家都和我想的一样，最好不出门，口罩给到最需要的地方，最需要的人。
We're still on the receiving end of friends, but I hope you can do as I always did in the studio that the best way to prevent the spread of the epidemic is not to go out.Zinc Finance: Looking at the increasing number of confirmed cases, how can you appease them? Via: I think I have some new friends coming in hoping I can help find them.
大家在直播间聊聊家里每天的笑事糗事，告诉我他们想要什么，以及最近新加的“项目”——“云吸猫”。
We chatted in the studio about the daily grins at home, telling me what they wanted, and the latest addition of "Cloud Sucking Cats."
不时就叫我家的黑猫出场和大家打招呼，希望这样大家可以每天有一个互动的窗口，和一群阳光向上的朋友侃大山，这就是我和薇娅的女人以及薇娅的骑士。
From time to time, I would ask my black cat to come out and say hello, so that everyone could have an interactive window every day, and a group of sunny friends could kindle mountains, this is my wife and Via's knight.
锌财经：您有粉丝是湖北的吗？在这段时间，他们买的最多的是什么？他们在直播间有和您说过他们此刻的生活吗?薇娅：当然，其实最近他们想要的很多，但是碍于物流，绝大多数东西他们都没有办法购买，但是他们还是在直播间和大家聊天分享。
Zinc Finance: Do you have any fans from Hubei? What did they buy the most during this time? Did they tell you about their life at the moment? Via: Of course, they want a lot of things recently, but because of logistics, they can't buy most things.
他们很多人都表示现在生活比较不便，一开始也会担心物资，但好在政府和社会各界人士的支持，这些现在倒不是那么担心，也相信疫情很快就会过去，现在他们大多数都是在家乖乖待着，自我隔离，虽然买不了什么，但也来直播间和我和大家聊聊天。
But thanks to the support of the government and people from all walks of life, they are not so worried now, and believe that the epidemic will soon be over. Most of them are staying at home, isolated from themselves, and come to the studio to chat with me even though they can't buy anything.
锌财经：在这个特殊时期，每个人都在贡献自己的力量。
Zinc Finance: At this particular time, everyone is doing their part.
您觉得作为一名主播，能为社会做些什么？薇娅：两点吧。
What do you think you can do for society as a anchor? Via: Two points.
第一点就是帮助大家去寻找各种需要的却不方便出门买的产品，同时和物流保持联系，确定各个地区的物流情况，及时告知到大家；第二点就是陪伴，陪伴除了消磨无聊时光，更希望能够安抚和鼓励更多的薇娅的女人，让大家都保持着积极向上的心态，并以此去鼓励更多人。
The first is to help you find products that you need, but are not easy to buy, and to keep in touch with the logistics, to determine the logistics of each region, to inform you in a timely manner. The second is to accompany the women who can appease and encourage more Via, so that everyone can keep a positive attitude and encourage more people.
锌财经：这段时间很多主播都停播了，因为这段时间确实太危险了，那为什么您还是在疫情没有过去的情况下开始直播呢？薇娅：看过我这几天直播的都知道，我在家里直播，所以送样品过来的同事都是样品放门口然后离开，并不会直接接触，快递盒子都是消毒后再拿进来。
Zinc Finance: A lot of anchors have been off the air these days because it's really dangerous, so why do you start live while the epidemic is not over? Via: I've been live at home for the last few days, so the colleagues who sent the samples are leaving the door without direct contact.
所以大家还是非常注意防护措施的。
So people still pay great attention to the protective measures.
因为每天很多的粉丝私信我要各种东西，或者最近更多的就是私信我怎么还没有直播，所以我觉得还是要做好自己该做的工作，如果在这个时间段还能帮助到大家，那更是何乐而不为了。
Because so many fans believe that I want all kinds of things, or more recently, I don't have a live feed, so I think I have to do my job well.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访薇娅：疫情下，人性至上。
Interview with Via: Under the epidemic situation, human nature first.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "专访薇娅：疫情下，人性至上";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Interview with Via: At least & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情面前，数据不再重要。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; data no longer matter in the face of an epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
