无声的战疫：你看不见的156万素人。
Silent Plague: 1.56 million people you can't see.
北乔。
North Joe.
锌财经                      。
Zinc Finance.
锌财经。
Zinc Finance.
新商业的记录者，新经济的推动者。
Record-keeper of new business, promoter of new economy.
。
.
文/北乔编辑/大风大Sao走出家门，街上有一种清冽的寒气。
The Editor / North Joe The wind was blowing hard as Yao walked out of his house. There was a sharp chill in the street.
今天是元宵节，安徽阜阳市的这个小镇已经风声鹤唳，街道上唯一一个骑自行车的行人忍不住回头看他。
Today is the Lantern Festival, the town of Fuyang City, Anhui Province, is rickety, the only pedestrian on the street can not help but look back at him.
“现在我们这个街上是特别的清净，安静，寂静。
"Now our street is very clean, quiet, silent.
”大Sao举着手机拍摄，他戴着口罩，只露出浓密的一字眉和那副粉丝熟悉的黑框眼镜。
He was wearing a mask, revealing only a bushy eyebrow and black-rimmed glasses familiar to fans.
他是趣头条上的土味吃播作者，在全网各平台已有500万粉丝。
He is the earthy creator on the headlines, with 5 million fans across platforms.
脚底传来摩擦地面的声音，路边的小餐馆、馍店大门紧闭，似乎好久没有打开过了。
The sound of friction on the ground came from the soles of the feet, the small restaurant, the bun door was closed, it seemed that the door had not been opened for a long time.
大Sao走出街头为特殊的粉丝购买食材从除夕那天开始，一种新型冠状病毒肆虐了武汉，病毒被证实存在人传人，此时，已有500万人从武汉流向了各个城市，甚至走出国境。
A new coronavirus has ravaged Wuhan since New Year's Eve, when it was confirmed that a human-to-human transmission of the virus occurred, with five million people traveling from Wuhan to various cities and even across the border.
安徽阜阳距离武汉只有350公里，但时间在人们漫长的居家隔离中走到了元宵节这天，阜阳市已经有了118例确诊病例，而市里的定点隔离医院距离这个小镇只有十来公里。
Fuyang City, Anhui Province, is only 350 kilometers away from Wuhan, but time in the people's long-term isolation came to the Lantern Festival, Fuyang City has 118 confirmed cases, and the city's designated isolation hospital is only about 10 kilometers away from the town.
大Sao一直没有出过家门，今天他必须出来买一些食材——为一个他从未见过的粉丝做一顿鸡腿。
Yao hasn't been out of the house, and today he has to go out and buy some ingredients - a drumstick for a fan he has never seen before.
就在2月7日凌晨2点多，这个平民英雄在病床上离去，万众瞩目，亿万人为他祈祷。
At just over 2 a.m. on 7 February, the civilian hero left the hospital bed, attracting the attention of millions of people and praying for him.
清晨，开启抗疫的一天大Sao仍是一个素人，除了每天做吃播视频，他是一个空调装修工，一个普通的小镇青年。
In the early morning, the day the plague was turned on, Yao, an air-conditioned repairman and an ordinary town youth, was still an ordinary native.
在三四五线城市普通人聚集的趣头条上，和他一样的三四五线的普通劳动者一样，都与这场战疫密切关联，但不会被镁光灯照到。
On the headlines of the average citizen of the three or four-and-a-half-line cities, like his average laborer of three or four or five lines, was closely associated with the epidemic, but would not be caught in the spotlight.
正月初八清晨，医药公司销售员瓜瓜骑着电动车行驶在怀化市区无人的街区，他即将抵达公司仓库，和二十多个同事开始这个城市医疗物资的输送。
In the early morning hours of January 8, drug company salesman Guagua rode an electric car through the empty Huaihua district. He was about to arrive at the company's warehouse and begin delivering medical supplies to the city with more than two dozen colleagues.
测量体温，用快速洗手液洗手，消毒，查看当天客户的货品配送计划，打印出货单，然后去仓库提货，配送到市县各医院和村镇卫生室。
Take your temperature, wash your hands with hand sanitizer, disinfect, check the customer's delivery plan for the day, print out the bill of lading, and then go to the warehouse to pick up the goods and distribute them to the city and county hospitals and village clinics.
瓜瓜的“战车”并无仪式感，只是一辆银色的面包车，他和同事开始搬运医疗物资，直到将有车厢全部塞满。
The "chariot" of Guagua was not ceremonial, but a silver van, and he and his colleagues began to carry medical supplies until all the carriages were packed.
瓜瓜中等个儿，是两个孩子的父亲，和所有还未完全油腻的中年一样爱开玩笑，平时喜欢打英雄联盟，没事拍拍小视频发在趣头条平台社区。
Medium-sized, father of two, and playful as any still-greasy middle-aged man, Guagua likes to play Hero and shoot little videos on the front-page platform community.
这一天，一批医疗物资要从湖南省会长沙的药厂运回怀化，瓜瓜的工作是押车。
On that day, a shipment of medical supplies was to be returned to Huaihua from a pharmaceutical factory in Changsha, the capital of Hunan Province.
车辆行驶在高速路上，穿过一个个检查站，一路出示通行证才能通过。
Vehicles are driven along highways, passing through checkpoints and showing passes along the way.
几箱药品、防护服和医用口罩要送往怀化市肺炎收治定点医院，他去登记领取了一套简易的防护服和护目镜。
Several boxes of medicine, protective clothing and medical masks were sent to the Huaihua Hospital for Pneumonia, where he went to collect a simple suit and goggles.
简易的防护服不会像医用防护服那样厚实不透气，他知道那种的感觉，如同钻进了一个密封的防水袋。
Simple protective clothing was not as thick and breathless as a medical suit, and he knew it was like drilling into a sealed waterproof bag.
瓜瓜的同事正在搬运货物面包车穿过无人的街道，进入医院大门。
Colleagues in Guagua are carrying caravans through deserted streets and into hospital gates.
瓜瓜联络医院药房管理部门，被告知要穿过住院部，抵达里面内的药房仓库。
Guagua contacted the pharmacy administration of the hospital and was told to go through the inpatient department and reach the pharmacy warehouse inside.
元宵节前夜，全国确诊案例已经达到31774人，每天新增三千多个确诊病例，医院成为海鲜市场之后最危险的病源地。
On the eve of the Lantern Festival, 31,774 cases were diagnosed nationwide, and more than 3,000 new cases were diagnosed every day.
瓜瓜抱着一箱药品穿过长长的走廊，路过护士站，看到一位穿着厚厚防护服的小护士趴在桌上睡着了。
Guagua, who was carrying a box of medicine through the long hallway, passed the nurse's station and saw a nurse in a thick suit asleep at the table.
这天早上七点多，在江苏省盐城市建湖县，吃完早饭的65岁老人扬人弋告诉老伴，“出去转转”，八点钟，他准时到社区报到了。
More than seven o'clock that morning, in Jianhu County, Yancheng City, Jiangsu Province, 65-year-old people after breakfast told his wife, "go out for a walk," eight o'clock, he arrived at the community on time.
扬人弋还记得17年前，SARS肆虐，北京是重灾区，而他的儿子就在北京邮电大学上学。
Still remember 17 years ago, SARS raged in Beijing, a disaster area, and his son attended Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications.
在那个人人惶恐的时期，他作为供销社下属单位的党支部书记，带领同事在建湖县路口检查行人车辆。
During that period of panic, he, as the secretary of the Party branch of the supply and marketing agency, led his colleagues to inspect pedestrians at Jianhu County Junction.
那时是真的害怕，因为还有儿子需要供养。
It was a real fear because there was a son to support.
如今儿子已经长大，不用再怕了，但孩子和老伴都会担心他虚弱的肝。
Now that his son has grown up, there is no need to be afraid, but both the child and his wife will worry about his weak liver.
一年前，一场手术切掉了他1/8的肝，现在还时时疼痛。
A year ago, an operation cut off one-eighth of his liver and it still hurts.
小区里开始一天三次广播，发放出入证，告诉居民不要聚餐，注意戴口罩，勤洗手，他知道疫情严重了，打算用7/8的肝再来做一点事情。
The neighborhood started broadcasting three times a day, issued passes, told residents not to have dinner, pay attention to wearing masks, wash hands frequently, he knew the epidemic was serious, and intended to use 7 / 8 of the liver to do something more.
小区门口的检查点图源网络扬人弋和另一位中年志愿者分在一组，开始做居民防疫信息登记。
Checkpoint source network in front of the cell, Yang Yan and another middle-aged volunteer joined together and began to register residents' epidemic prevention information.
他们一家家敲门，爬楼，再敲门，看家中是否有人，是否有武汉回来的，是否在未来几日有出行计划。
They knock on doors, climb buildings, knock on the door, to see if anyone in the home, whether Wuhan back, whether there are travel plans in the next few days.
锦湖小区是一个安置小区，里面既有回迁的本地居民，又有购置房产的外来户籍人口，居民中也有外出打工者。
Jinhu District is a resettlement area, which includes both the local residents who have moved back, and the acquisition of real estate of the resident population, there are also migrant workers.
居委会给扬人弋一天发两个口罩，这是他的装备。
The neighborhood committee handed out two masks a day to Yang people. It was his equipment.
但扬人弋和另一位老人商量，咱们敲门不入户，开门后离居民远一点。
But Yang Yan and another old man to discuss, we can not knock on the door, open the door to stay away from the residents.
“我们不担心别人，别人还担心咱们呢！”一顿鸡腿、几分钱金币大Sao第一次走出家门，淡淡的担心在踏出家门那一刻已经消散，这如同一个有仪式感的征程。
"We don't worry about others, people worry about us!" A chicken leg, a few pennies of gold, big Sao walked out of his house for the first time, a faint fear that the moment he stepped out of his house had dissipated, like a ritual journey.
他来到一家超市，肉已经卖完了，他步行到小镇的另一家超市，终于买到了鸡腿。
He went to a supermarket. The meat was sold out. He walked to another supermarket in the town and finally bought a drumstick.
那条微博被很多人转给他。
The microblog was passed on to him by many people.
“今天又是忙碌的一天，患者多了心情难免有些急躁，感谢每个患者对我的体谅，中午按摩之后舒服多了，感觉困扰多日的颈椎病终于要滚蛋了，武汉的秋天自有一种不热不冷的温柔。
"Today is another busy day, the patient is a bit impatient, thank each patient for my sympathies, after the noon massage much more comfortable, feeling that the cervical spondylosis has been troubled for many days finally to get rid of, Wuhan autumn has a kind of lukewarm not cold gentle.
”这还是2019年10月12日，两个多月后的12月31日，这位吹哨“防护预警”，“华南水果海鲜市场确诊了7例SARS。
It was on Oct. 12, 2019, more than two months later on December 31, the whistler, "Protection Alert," "South China Fruit Seafood Market confirmed seven cases of SARS.
在武汉市中心医院后湖院区急诊科隔离”，之后他和其他3名医生被警方找去签了训诫书。
He and three other doctors were called by the police to sign a reprimand after being quarantined by the emergency department of the Houhu district of Wuhan Central Hospital.
2月7日，尽忠职守的医生因感染新型冠状病毒引发的肺炎离开了人世，这条微博被网友翻出来了，微博中还有一句话，“这天晚上吃了一直心心念念的鸡腿，但感觉还是没有徐大Sao做的香啊。
Feb. 7, the dedicated doctor died of pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus, this Weibo was turned over by netizens, also said, "I ate the chicken leg that I had been thinking about that night, but I still don't feel like Xu Da Sao's fragrance.
”他们给大Sao留言，“大Sao，给他做一顿鸡腿吧！”大Sao微博图源网络“买到鸡腿，我一定会的。
They sent a message to Gao, "Big Sao, make him a drumstick!" The big Sao Weibo source network "I will buy drumsticks.
”大Sao回复。
"Gao replied.
34岁，大Sao想，跟我差不多的年龄。
Thirty-four, thought Big Sao, about my age.
医生的孩子5岁，跟自己的儿子小肥羊差不多大，但第二个孩子还未出生，即将在6月分娩，但再也看不到第一个说出病毒真相的父亲了。
The doctor's five-year-old baby is about the size of his son Little Sheep, but his second child is still unborn and is due to give birth in June, but he is no longer the first to tell the truth about the virus.
在这个特殊的元宵节，这种外形似皇冠的新型病毒并没有因为医生的预警而被绞杀在摇篮——病毒胜利了，它感染了全国数万人，发热、咳嗽、呼吸困难，上千人因此丧命。
On this special Lantern Festival, the new crown-shaped virus is not hanged in its cradle by a doctor's warning - the virus has won, infecting tens of thousands of people across the country, getting feverish, coughing, breathing problems and killing thousands of people.
大Sao只是一名普通的空调装修工，如今也是，他在夏天的酷暑爬在楼顶和窗外，安装空调、维修空调，他自己也感觉，这是一个辛劳指数排在前列的职业。
Yao, a regular air-conditioner and organizer, climbs the roof and windows in the summer heat, installing air conditioning and maintaining air conditioning, a profession that he himself feels ranks high on the list.
大Sao喜欢倒腾吃的，他用工地上常用的那种不锈钢大饭钵吃饭，有时做的汤直接装在一个脸盆大小的盆里，端起来就喝。
He ate in the stainless steel bowls commonly used in the workplace. Sometimes the soup was made in a basin the size of a washbasin and was picked up and drunk.
“今天吃顿好的”，这是他的口头禅，吃的时候，他摘下自己的黑框眼镜，砸吧着嘴说，“真香！”他把自己做饭的视频发在网上，招来了两三百万粉丝，成了一个土味吃播的知名播主，这一天，他感到沉重、荣幸、敬畏——这位伟大的医生是他的粉丝。
"This is his mantra," he said as he ate, taking off his own black-rimmed glasses and smacking his mouth, "It's delicious!" He posted a video of his cooking online, enlisting two or three million fans as a well-known native broadcaster, a day when he felt heavy, honored and awed - the great doctor was his fan.
徐大Sao吃播视频“兄弟，今天做一顿你最爱吃的炸鸡腿，一路走好，同时致敬每一位医护人员。
"Brother, make your favorite fried chicken leg today, walk all the way, and pay homage to every medical worker.
“大Sao要将这期视频的收入全部捐给这位平民英雄的家人，这笔钱可能只有上千元，但就如同粉丝们所要求的炸鸡腿一样，指代了灾难期那种难以言表的情感。
"Gao will donate all of the proceeds from the video to the civilian hero's family, which may be in the thousands, but like the fried chicken legs that fans are asking for, it refers to the unspeakable emotions of the disaster.
在新疆库尔勒，一个叫笑口常开的阿姨（以下简称“笑阿姨”）同样随手捐出了1千枚“金币”。
In Kuller, Xinjiang, an aunt called Laughing Auntie (hereinafter referred to as "Aunt Laughing") also donated 1,000 gold coins.
这并不是真的金币，而是趣头条平台上用阅读资讯和用户签到等任务获得的奖励，每天一两个小时翻看下来，可以挣到几千枚，每一万枚金币价值1元，一天下来只有几毛钱。
It's not real gold coins, but rewards for reading information and checking in tasks like check-in, which can earn thousands of dollars a day for every 10,000 gold pieces worth only a few cents at the end of the day.
“我感觉1千金币没啥用，我们挣的也不多。
"I don't think a thousand gold coins will do, and we don't make much.
”笑阿姨打算在趣头条“助力武汉”的公益平台上每天捐些，她抱歉地对平台工作人员说。
"Aunt Laughing is going to donate something each day on the pro bono platform that has the headline" Help Wuhan, "she said apologetically to Platform staff.
“人多力量就大了哈。
"Many hands make great man.
”工作人员乐呵地回答，这些金币就会换成人民币购置医疗物资捐赠给灾区。
"Staff responded cheerfully that the coins would be exchanged for yuan for medical supplies and donated to the disaster area.
这个工作人员说了一个有意思的现象，这些普通劳动者捐赠的金币多的只价值几块钱，最多的也只有200多块，但却是这个用户一两年阅读资讯积攒下来的。
The average worker made an interesting observation: the average worker donated more than a few dollars worth of gold, or at most more than 200, but it was the user who accumulated the money after a year or two of reading.
山西运城一位30岁中年捐赠了一个“看起来好看一点”的金币数——666666个；北京的厉害叔捐赠了半年积攒的50万个金币；而昆明市周边一个县城的娇捐出了账户里积攒的所有金币——57万多个。
A 30-year-old woman in Shanxi Yuncheng donated 666,666 gold coins, Beijing's powerful uncle donated 500,000 gold coins accumulated over a six-month period, while Jiao of a county around Kunming donated all the gold coins he had accumulated in his account - more than 570,000.
在岗位上，就是战斗在新疆库尔勒的一栋单身公寓，笑阿姨开始清扫走廊。
On duty, it was fighting in a single apartment in Kurle, Xinjiang, when Aunt Laughing began to clean the hallway.
她快50了，隔离楼层的那八个年轻人跟自己女儿差不多的年龄，都是从外地来上班的，需要在这里隔离14天。
She was approaching 50, and the eight young men on the isolation floor, who were about the same age as their daughters, had come from out of town and needed to be isolated for 14 days.
正月初十是上班的第一天，领导给她打了电话。
On the tenth day of the first month, the leader called her.
笑阿姨说，在这里工作了四年多，“那肯定是要来啊”。
Aunt smile said, working here for more than four years, "that must be coming."
单身公寓有五层，每层有25个房间，她和另外一个阿姨负责保洁消毒——一人负责两层楼。
With five floors and 25 rooms on each floor, she and another aunt were responsible for cleaning and disinfecting -- one for two floors.
三楼是隔离楼，笑阿姨负责。
The third floor is the isolation building. Aunt Laugh is in charge.
笑阿姨的职责除了清扫楼道厕所，还包括清理每一个房间的垃圾。
Aunt Laugh's job is not only to clean the bathroom, but also to clean up every room of garbage.
留着短发的笑阿姨笑起来像邻家大妈般亲切，三楼住着的青年人会和她聊天。
Auntie smile with short hair looks like a kind mother-next-door. The young people who live on the third floor will talk to her.
1997年时，笑阿姨就从河南老家来到了新疆库尔勒，女儿在这里上学长大，这里就是她的家。
In 1997, Aunt Laugh came to Kuller, Xinjiang, from her hometown in Henan Province, where her daughter grew up in school.
社区里的工作人员此时的库尔勒还没有出现新型肺炎的确诊病例，年前大女儿从乌鲁木齐回到了库尔勒的家中，如今她不能返回工作地，实习的二女儿也在家中，只有笑阿姨已经走上了前线。
There was no confirmed case of new pneumonia in the neighborhood at this time. The eldest daughter, who had returned from Urumqi to her home in Kurle, was unable to return to work. Her second daughter was at home and Aunt Laughing was on the front line.
单身公寓的厕所一天要进行三次消毒，保护她的只有一个口罩，两天更换一个。
The toilet in a single apartment is sterilized three times a day, protected by a single mask and replaced twice a day.
明天是元宵节，领导说不让回家，最好住在这里，笑阿姨同意了。
Tomorrow is the Lantern Festival, the leader said not to go home, had better live here, Aunt Laughing agreed.
她在食堂打来饭菜，坐在五楼宿舍里吃完，晚上六点多，疫情严重的湖北已经漆黑一片，但库尔勒的天空还是蔚蓝的，太阳距离山头还很遥远，明晃晃照耀着窗台。
She cooked in the cafeteria, sat on the fifth floor of the dorm and finished eating. It was past six in the evening in Hubei, where the epidemic was severe, but the sky was still blue and the sun was far from the top of the hill, shining brightly on the ledge.
元宵节这一天，辽宁鞍山电厂的电力值班员舍得仍在和同事们轮流加班。
Lantern Festival on this day, Liaoning Anshan Power Plant electric duty staff still willing to work overtime with colleagues rotation.
这家电厂除了发电外，还负责着鞍山市的供暖，因而在春节期间，无论是否有疫情，舍得都要和同事们留在控制室里。
In addition to generating electricity, the power plant is also responsible for the heating of Anshan City, so during the Spring Festival, whether or not there is an epidemic, will be willing to stay with colleagues in the control room.
正月初十的鞍山出现了第一例新型肺炎的确诊病例，疫情防护变得紧张。
The first confirmed case of new pneumonia occurred in Anshan on the tenth day of the first month.
早上7点，舍得来到厂里，换上蓝色工服套装和帽子，检测体温，进入控制室，清洁仪器设备的台面，并用酒精擦拭日常接触的键盘、鼠标和仪器。
At 7 a. m., she went to the factory, changed into blue overalls and hats, took temperature tests, entered the control room, cleaned the counters of the instrument, and used alcohol to wipe away the keyboards, mice and instruments in daily contact.
一天的工作是巡视检查电厂设备，监测温度、震动等指标，两轮检查之后，一切正常。
A day's work is to inspect the plant equipment, monitoring temperature, vibration and other indicators, after two rounds of inspection, everything is normal.
午饭通知不能再到食堂就餐，一个同事去食堂买来盒饭，大家在控制室内吃完，之后又是设备巡查，下午增加了消毒环节，一直到晚上五点多，一天的工作结束了。
Lunch announcement can not go to the canteen, a colleague to buy boxed rice, we eat in the control room, then equipment inspection, added disinfection links in the afternoon until more than 5 pm, the end of the day's work.
舍得所在电力公司的同事们舍得开车回家。
Colleagues at Razer's power company were willing to drive home.
街道上的药店还开着。
The drugstore on the street is still open.
在夜幕降临后，路上的车辆更少了，“堵车的问题解决了。
As night fell, there was less traffic on the road. "The traffic jam has been solved.
”舍得心想，突然觉得有点好笑。
"she thought, suddenly amused.
前方的车辆减速停下来，是红灯，车辆靠近，这是城市陌生人少有的亲密接触。
The traffic slowed to a stop at a red light and vehicles approached, a rare intimate contact with a stranger in the city.
舍得在回家的路上车辆越过没有行人的人行道，“郭明义”的墙体广告牌讲述的是上一个年代矿工的故事，而眼下，东北钢铁矿场的工人们能否对抗最大的敌人——病毒。
"Guo's wall billboards tell the story of miners of the previous era, and now workers at the Northeast Iron and Steel Mine are up against their worst enemy, the virus.
夜渐深，河南平顶山市郏县第一人民医院的财会专员柒哥还不能下班，医院走廊没有几个病人了，只能听到偶尔哒哒的脚步声。
As the night wore on, the Financial and Accounting Commissioner of No. No No No No No No No No no no no hospital hallway few patients, can only hear the occasional sound of footsteps.
这是县城里唯一一所大型医院，也是新型肺炎的定点医院。
This is the only large hospital in the county, is also a new type of pneumonia designated hospital.
几天前，医院送来了两名疑似病人，在这个60万的小县城里，大多数人都到到周边大城市打工，逢年过节，外地务工人员都返回了。
A few days ago, the hospital sent in two suspected patients. Most of the 600, 000 people in the small county went to work in the surrounding big cities for the holidays and migrant workers returned.
最近一周，两个疑似肺炎的返乡人员密切接触了二十多个人，如今都在医院隔离。
In recent weeks, two suspected pneumonia returnees have been in close contact with more than two dozen people and are now being quarantined in hospitals.
我们后退，谁来救他们在郏县这所县级医院，正常情况下每天有1500人次的病人前来就诊，他们经过询诊、挂号、诊疗，第四步终将进入柒哥的窗口，那就是报销核算和凭证打印。
In the No No No No no no no no no no no no no no no no, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
“医院才是最大的传染源，所以没事少来。
"The hospital is the biggest source of infection, so come on.
”柒哥也是趣头条社区的一个作者，日常喜欢制作生活小常识、唱歌类的小视频发在社区，疫情期间已没有太多时间来发布视频了，但他还是在作者群里留言。
G G is also a writer in the headline-grabbing community who loves to make life-style, singing videos in the community. There's not much time to post videos during the epidemic, but he leaves a message with the writers' group.
医院紧急将工作人员划分为两类，接触病人和不接触病人的，不接触病人的开始独立办公，柒哥属于接触的那一类。
The hospital divided the staff into two groups: those who had contact with the patient and those who did not, and those who had no contact with the patients started working independently.
早上7点45分，柒哥到达医院，开始准备一天要用的票据、现金，然后对工作区进行清洁消毒。
At 7: 45 am, G-G arrives at the hospital, starts to prepare bills and cash for the day, and then cleans and disinfects the work area.
对于医院工作人员来说，头等大事是自我保护，避免感染，为此医护人员的作息调整为24小时，然后居家2天隔离，无发烧症状后继续上班。
For hospital staff, the priority is to protect themselves from infection by adjusting their schedules to 24 hours and then staying in their homes for two days without any symptoms of fever before continuing to work.
柒哥用七步洗手法洗手，带着口罩开始一天的工作。
G brother with seven steps wash hands, wearing a mask to start the day's work.
他的爱人是这个医院呼吸科的护士，在疫情期间，避免交叉感染，两人都不会见面。
His wife, a respiratory nurse at the hospital, avoided cross-infection during the outbreak and neither met.
医护人员忙着和病毒作战白天的发热病人已经完成就诊或住院，晚上只有医护人员走来走去，医院的走廊很静。
The hospital staff was busy fighting the virus. The feverish day patients had been hospitalized, only paramedics walked up and down the night, and the hospital corridors were quiet.
在没有新的病人时，柒哥也会趴在桌子上睡一会儿。
In the absence of new patients, GG will also lie down on the table to sleep for a while.
呼吸科的妻子比自己更累，她们科室轮职当班的只有两三个护士，给病人测量体温、注射、送药、监测生理症状，24小时不间断穿梭，憋闷在防护衣里。
Breathing wives are more tired than they are, and there are only two or three nurses on shift in their sections, who take temperature measurements, inject drugs, deliver drugs, monitor physical symptoms, travel 24 hours a day, and suffocate in protective clothing.
早晨七点，他和妻子回到家，二人无言，妻子只是默默的脱下外衣放在阳台，消毒，洗澡，然后默默躺在床上，太累了。
At seven o'clock in the morning, when he and his wife came home, they were speechless. The wife silently took off her coat and put it on the balcony.
柒哥曾经是个军人，他跟妻子聊过，如果两人真的被感染了怎么办。
G brother used to be a soldier, he talked to his wife, if the two were really infected what to do.
柒哥对妻子说，“我们做的就是这行，如果我们往后退的话，那谁还来救他们？”元宵节前后，确诊病例越来越多。
The brother said to his wife, "This is what we do, if we retreat, who will save them?" Lantern Festival before and after the diagnosis of more and more cases.
河北保定易县村庄里有年前从疫区回来的打工者，但老人们并不关心，在家闷久了，她们像往常一样聚在村口。
In Baoding Yi County, Hebei, there were migrant workers who had returned from the epidemic area some years ago, but the old people didn't care.
“我们年纪大了，不怕死。
"We are old enough not to fear death.
”她们对挨村巡查的县事业单位职工朵姐说。
"said they to Sister Dao, the county's institutional worker who went round the village.
从春节到元宵节，朵姐都会和同事轮流每天到县城周边的村庄巡查，偶尔也会碰到这样一群不戴口罩的老太太。
From the Spring Festival to the Lantern Festival, my sister and colleagues will take turns to visit the villages around the county every day.
“你们是年龄大了，你们还有儿子孙子呢！”她大声招呼老人们快点散开。
"You are old, and you have sons and grandchildren!" She called out to the old people to disperse.
老人们似乎听懂了，蹒跚着往家走，“是哦，还有孙子呢！”敬平民英雄们晚上8点，朵姐在灯火阑珊中回家，在相邻县里负责防疫工作的丈夫还没回家。
The old people seemed to understand and staggered home, "Oh, and the grandson!" At 8 p.m., the heroes of the commoners returned home in darkness, and the husband, who was in charge of vaccination in the neighboring county, had not yet returned home.
他们时常会相互提醒，“别忘了戴口罩啊！”在最放松的时候，朵姐会翻翻趣头条上做美食的视频，也会随手将金币捐给“助力武汉”公益平台。
They often remind each other, "Don't forget to wear a mask!" In the most relaxed moments, Done would flip through the headlines to make a gourmet video and donate gold coins to the "Help Wuhan" charity platform.
她在用户聚集的群中解释，最近金币锐减，因为没有时间做任务了。
She explained in a crowd of users that gold coins had recently collapsed because there was no time to do the job.
江苏大爷扬人弋喜欢在趣头条上看离退休职工待遇和劳资的信息。
Master Jiangsu enjoys reading the headlines about the treatment of retired workers and information about labor and management.
他退休的供销社曾经是事业单位，后改制后变为企业，同在一个单位，事业单位编制和企业编制员工退休金差额很大，相同学历、年龄不同酬劳，扬大爷在趣头条不断搜索这方面的信息，这方面的信息也会源源不断地被推送给他，如今他已经成为这方面的“专家”。
He has become an expert on the subject as he searches for information in front of the headlines about the huge difference in pension benefits between employees of the same organization, establishment and establishment.
这一天奋战下来，扬人弋完成100多户居民登记，晚上回到家高兴地告诉老伴，这一百多户居民没有从疫区回来的，没啥风险。
On that day, more than 100 families were registered and returned home at night, happily telling their old friends that more than 100 families had not returned from the affected areas.
笑阿姨也更放心了，这八个从外省来的孩子没有一个发烧的；两天后，柒哥医院里一名新型肺炎的疑似患者也出院了。
Auntie Laugh also more at ease, the eight children from the provinces did not have a fever; two days later, GG Hospital in a suspected new pneumonia patient was also discharged.
村口的防疫检查点舍得制作了一条支援武汉的视频，发布在趣头条的社区。
The cordon sanitaire at the village's entrance has produced a video supporting Wuhan, released in the headline community.
一年下来，每条视频点击量都能达到几千的浏览量，但单条收入只有十几块钱。
Over the course of a year, each video hits a few thousand views, but only a few dozen dollars per entry.
他必须继续制作，东北经济不好，普通岗位月收入就三四千，“孩子学体育，现在还挣不到多少钱”，舍得希望明年能开个小餐馆。
He must continue to produce, the Northeast economy is not good, ordinary jobs on the monthly income of three or four thousand, "children learn sports, and now earn little money", hope to open a small restaurant next year.
这和柒哥的想法一样，如今正是上有老下有小的年龄，只能拼命让生活过的好一点。
This and 7 brother's idea is the same, is now up and down the age, can only desperately make life better.
洗鸡腿，加盐、料酒腌制，裹上面粉、蛋液和面包糠，下锅。
Wash drumsticks, marinate with salt and cooking wine, cover with flour, egg and bread crumbs, and pan.
大Sao第一批下锅的鸡腿炸老了，颜色呈暗黄色，第二锅鸡腿出锅，颜色金黄。
The first batch of Sao fried chicken leg is old, the color is dark yellow, the second pot chicken leg out of the pot, golden color.
大Sao知道医生粉丝懂自己，并不是自己做的美食有多么好吃，只是他能从中看到一份真实和简单的美好，就像是他在微博上许下的2020年愿望，“看得清世间繁杂，却不在心中留下痕迹”。
Big Sao knows that his fans don't know how good their food is, but he can see a real and simple beauty in it, just like his 2020 wish on Weibo to "see all the things in the world but leave no trace in them."
大Sao吃鸡腿视频舍得、柒哥、笑阿姨、扬人弋、朵姐……越来越多的普通人在趣头条上聚集。
Big Sao eats chicken leg video rosary, 7 elder brother, laugh auntie, Yang Yun, elder sister... more and more ordinary people gather on the headlines.
从1月29日开始，5天时间，趣头条“助力武汉”公益平台上聚集了10万用户，他们有的捐赠几分钱，有的捐赠几角钱，聚少成多，一共捐出了价值17万元人民币的金币。
From Jan. 29, the headline "Help Wuhan" gathered 100,000 users over a five-day period, donating a few cents or donating tens of thousands of yuan.
趣头条被称为“五环外的今日头条”，其用户大多为下沉市场最普通的劳动者，也就是那些疫情期间不被关注的素人。
Headlines, dubbed "Today's headlines outside the Fifth Ring Road," are used mostly by the most ordinary workers in the sinking market, people who were invisible during the epidemic.
截至2月12日，趣头条公益平台“助力武汉”上聚集了156万这样的素人，捐赠了262万次，捐赠价值总额35万人民币的金币。
As of February 12, 1.56 million such people had gathered on the pro bono platform "Help Wuhan," with 2.62 million donations of gold coins worth 350,000 yuan.
根据趣头条的公益负责人管乐欣介绍，这笔资金将很快被用以购买医用物资定向捐往湖北地区。
The money will soon be used to buy medical supplies for targeted donation to Hubei, said Guan Le Xin, pro bono director of the headline.
大Sao将炸焦糊的那一盘鸡腿放在自己面前，将金黄色的一盘鸡腿放在对面，拿出两头蒜递给对面的“医生”，两头放在自己这里，还剥好了几颗随手丢进对面的盘子里，像一个熟悉的兄弟。
He placed the fried drumstick in front of him, placed a golden plate of drumsticks on the opposite side, handed the two garlic to the "doctor" opposite him, put his two ends on his own, and flung some of them on the plate opposite him, like a familiar brother.
取下眼镜，放在桌子上，他一句话都没有讲，低头一口口慢慢啃起了鸡腿，无数看者泪目。
He took off his glasses and put them on the table. Without saying a word, he lowered his head and ate the drumsticks slowly.
“致敬，我们的平民英雄。
"Salute, our civilian hero.
”、。
",.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无声的战疫：你看不见的156万素人。
Silent Plague: 1.56 million people you can't see.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "锌财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; zinc finance & quot;;
var msg_title = "无声的战疫：你看不见的156万素人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; silent plague: Rhetoric & quot; 1.56 million people you couldn't see;;
var msg_desc = "黑夜中，总有光芒在闪耀。
var msg _ desc = & quot; there was always light at night.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="锌财经";。
Var title = & quot; Zinc & Finance & quot;;
