医护人员用文件袋自制护目镜——湖北县镇乡村防疫战。
Self-made goggles made by medical staff with file bags: rural epidemic prevention warfare in Hubei county.
本刊记者。
This print journalist.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
医疗防护资源不足是常态，各地资源调配需平衡，“灯下黑”区域渐次光亮，但少数地区的疫情宣传依旧不到位外地务工返乡者最担忧的问题是年后经济收入断流、地域歧视，担心节后可能无法返工本文首发于南方人物周刊文|本刊记者 邱苑婷 张宇欣     赵蕾 徐梅 邓郁 陈洋编辑|周建平 蒯乐昊全文约5357字，细读大约需要12分钟孝感市中心医院消化二病区（目前已改为病毒性肺炎病区），医护人员在用文件袋自制防护罩 图/受访者提供继1月23日上午10点武汉“封城”，随后两天里，湖北下属各市接连发布类似防疫举措。
Health-care resources are normal, resources are deployed evenly across the country, and "black" areas are getting brighter. However, publicity for the epidemic is still lacking in a few areas. Returnees fear that they may not be able to rework.
截至1月26日，湖北除襄阳市与神农架林区外均已封城。
As of January 26, Hubei has been closed except Xiangyang City and Shennongjia Forest Area.
“湖北不是只有一个武汉”“救救湖北其他地区”的声音，近日逐渐得到关注。
"Hubei is not only one Wuhan" "save other parts of Hubei" voice, recently gradually received attention.
湖北其他地区、尤其农村的防疫形势，多被形容为“迟到”、“灯下黑”。
The epidemic prevention situation in other areas of Hubei Province, especially in rural areas, has been described as "late" and "black under the lights."
封城几日后，“灯下黑”的局面有无得到改善？他们在担心哪些问题？县镇和乡村医院的医疗资源供给情况如何？南方人物周刊向近十位湖北人连线了解情况，他们分别生活在十堰、随州、鄂州、咸宁、黄冈、宜昌、仙桃等地级市下属所辖区县村庄，有负责排查工作的乡村公职人员，有县医院的一线医护人员，也有外地务工返乡者……不同人眼中，看到了截然不同的封城后湖北县镇乡村生活图景。
What are the problems they are worrying about? What is the supply of medical resources in the county and village hospitals? The Southern People's Weekly has contacted nearly ten Hubei people in counties and villages under its jurisdiction such as Shiyan, Suizhou, Huizhou, Xianning, Huanggang, Yichang and Xiantao.
有相通之处，亦有因地域和家庭带来的反差；有人觉得自己处在“疫情盲区”，亦有人开始感到欣慰。
There are similarities, but also due to geographical and family differences; some people feel that they are in the "blind zone", some people are beginning to feel relieved.
路虽封，与外界交流的信息渠道未断，这其中有流言亦有真相，在真假之中、在焦虑与希望之间，他们最想知道的莫过于：这场疫情，还会持续多久？蕲春第一农贸市场，疫情期间已关闭 图/受访者提供医疗资源：确诊速度有限，防护不足，但已开始收到援助物资“终于看到一点希望，稍微安心了”1月24日大年三十晚上，蕲春县人民医院某科室的丁宇（化名）才接到医护人员全部暂停休假的通知，距离他2019年底得知武汉发现第一例“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎”的消息已经过去25天。
It is 25 days since he learned that Wuhan had discovered the first case of "new coronavirus-infected pneumonia" on January 24 at the end of 2019 after hearing that Wuhan had discovered the first case of coronavirus infection.
约两周前，医院接到第一个疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例。
About two weeks ago, the hospital received the first case of pneumonia suspected to be a new coronavirus infection.
1月20日，医院的发热门诊接诊量有所增加，丁宇所在科室也接到了首个疑似病例。
On January 20, the number of hospital admissions to the fever clinic increased, and Ding Yu's office received its first suspected case.
因为老人伴有发热、咳嗽的症状，医院很快为其做了胸部CT，看到患者肺部有从周围向中心扩散的斑片状磨玻璃阴影，患者被转移到感染科安排住院。
Because the elderly with fever, cough symptoms, the hospital quickly made a chest CT, to see the patient's lungs from the surrounding to the center of the speckle-shaped grinding glass shadow, the patient was transferred to the infection department to arrange hospitalization.
蕲春县人民医院往年多有甲流、乙流患者，一年内确诊的病毒性肺炎患者则不到五个，所以医院几乎没有核酸检测试剂盒，当时住院的患者好几天都无法得到确诊。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital has had cases of influenza A and B in the past years, and fewer than five cases of viral pneumonia have been diagnosed within a year. There are almost no nucleic acid test kits in the hospital.
“黄冈市疾控中心25日下发了核酸检测试剂盒，我们医院是每天30个配额”，丁宇估算，每个试剂盒平均五小时左右才能得到检测结果，就算试剂盒充足，医护人员全天不休也只能检测二十多个，这么算下来，确诊速度还是完全跟不上。
"Huanggang CDC 25 issued nucleic acid testing kits, our hospital is a daily quota of 30," Ding Yu estimated, each kit to get an average of about five hours, even if the kit is sufficient, medical staff can only around 20 round the clock, the diagnosis rate is still not up to date.
紧缺的不止是检测试剂盒，据丁宇了解，医院对口罩也进行了统一管制。
The shortage is not only testing kits, according to Ding Yu understanding, the hospital has also carried out uniform control of masks.
这些天，所有科室开早会时都会统一派发常规护理口罩，每人每天一个，“医用外科口罩只有外科有，N95口罩就没有了”。
These days, all departments will be open in the morning session will be uniform distribution of a regular care mask, one per person per day, "medical surgical masks only surgery, N95 no longer."
25号下午，他看见一群急诊科的医护人员在给一个老人做抢救手术，几个医生、护士只穿戴了一次性口罩和普通的外科手术服，但是等抢救无效、宣布老人死亡后，CT的检测结果显示他是疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，当时一个护士就吓哭了。
On the afternoon of the 25th, he saw a group of emergency medical personnel performing rescue operations on an elderly man. Several doctors and nurses were wearing only disposable masks and ordinary surgical costumes. But when rescue efforts failed and the old man was declared dead, CT tests showed that he had pneumonia suspected to be infected with the new coronavirus.
由于此地没有应对重大疫情防疫的经验，医院里也没有护目镜等更多防护物资。
As there is no experience of major epidemic prevention here, the hospital does not have more protective materials such as goggles.
这两天，他只看到急诊科等极少数重点科室的医生穿上了医用防护服，“比较少，正在进行社会募捐”。
Over the past two days, he has seen only a handful of doctors in key departments, such as the emergency department, put on medical protective clothing.
蕲春第一农贸市场门口是漕河镇最拥堵路段之一，今日街道格外宽敞，偶尔能见几辆车辆路过 图/受访者提供过年这几天，发热门诊的就诊人数明显多了两三倍，丁宇更担心蕲春下属十几个乡镇。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon is one of the most congested sections of the Caohe Town. Today the streets are very spacious and there are a few vehicles passing by. The number of visitors to the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon is two or three times higher.
封城前，医院就诊人数中通常有50%是下属乡镇的人，这两天他看到有相关部门车辆横着停在道路中央，阻断了乡镇进县城的道路。
Before the city was closed, 50 per cent of the hospital visits were usually made by people from the townships where he had seen vehicles from the relevant departments parked horizontally in the middle of the road, blocking the access roads of the townships into the county seat.
“乡镇的人可能对疫情缺乏足够的了解，有些地方的卫生所春节也放假了，有病也无法出乡镇及时救治，目前没有乡下的人上来看病，我们也不知道他们的身体情况，感觉那里也是一个盲区。
"People in the townships probably don't know enough about the epidemic. Some places have their Spring Festival off, they can't get out of the towns when they get sick, there are no people from the countryside coming to see them, and we don't know their bodies, it feels like a blind area.
”丁宇说。
"said Ding.
26号中午，丁宇告诉记者，医院刚收到一大批社会救助的防护物资，正在分配到各个科室，前天，医院对外发布了医院急需医护物资的求助公告。
At noon on the 26th, Ding told reporters that the hospital had just received a large number of social assistance protection materials, is being distributed to the various departments, the day before yesterday, the hospital issued a hospital urgently needed medical supplies for help announcement.
“终于看到一点希望，稍微安心了”，丁宇长舒一口气。
"See a bit of hope finally, a little peace of mind", Ding Yu long sigh of relief.
收到援助物资的不止黄冈蕲春人民医院。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Hospital has received assistance.
连线中，有知情人士表示黄冈红安县当地医院1月24日口罩等物资开始到位，但仍有缺口，需要社会援助。
Wired, a person familiar with the matter said that Huanggang Hongan County local hospital January 24, such as masks began to arrive, but there is still a gap, need social assistance.
在一份志愿者“唐二”梳理的涉及黄冈市辖区27所医院（包括黄梅县、武穴市、黄冈市、团风县、麻城市、罗田县、英山县、浠水县、蕲春县）的需求情况表中，截至1月25日晚上11点，除了只负责协助排查的两所医院表示状况尚可之外，其他医院都表示物资有缺口、防护服紧缺，或仅剩几天存量、只能供给传染科等部分科室的防护需求，接收疑似病例的医院大多面临隔离病房床位紧张和发热门诊人满的情况。
As at 11 pm on January 25, all hospitals except the two hospitals which are only responsible for assisting the search indicate that there is a shortage of materials, protective clothing or only a few days left in stock to meet the protection needs of some sections such as the Infectious Disease Unit.
蕲春火车站，仅留一个退票窗口供购买纸质车票乘客退票。
Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Railway Station, there is only one refund window available for paper ticket refunds.
有几位居民正在办理退票，其中仍有几名中年男子并未佩戴口罩。
Several residents are in the process of returning tickets and several middle-aged men are still not wearing masks.
在向工作人员询问何时解封时，工作人员统一回复等待政府通知 图/受访者提供黄冈市之外，湖北其他各地区医院情况也是如此。
When staff members were asked when the seals would be lifted, staff responded uniformly while waiting for government notification charts / respondents to provide information on the city of Huanggang, as did hospitals in other parts of Huanggang.
近日，湖北各地多家医院向社会公开发出求援公告。
Recently, Hubei many hospitals around the public issued a call for help announcement.
咸宁市通山县人民医院公众号于1月25日发布文章，配图显示医院挂号处、走廊里人满为患，大厅休息处的所有座椅被戴着口罩打点滴的患者占满，同时呼吁护目镜、口罩、防护服、防护面罩等社会物资捐赠，表示“目前我院医护人员的防护用品严重不足，各项医用物资紧缺，我院通过多种方式求购，短时间内无法满足急剧增长所需”。
"At present, all the seats in the lobby are seriously inadequate and medical supplies are in short supply, and our hospital is unable to meet the needs of the rapid growth in a short time," he said.
十堰市某镇村民刘文1月25日看到新闻称，湖北十堰市筹集3800万元用于购买医疗设备、药品、医护人员防护装备以及病患救治。
Yan City, a villager Liu Wen saw the news on January 25, Hubei Shiyan City raised 38 million yuan to buy medical equipment, medicines, medical personnel protection equipment and patient treatment.
“但现在的问题是不能光有钱，还要有货源、有运输渠道。
"But the problem now is not just money, but supply and transportation.
”经校友介绍，刘文进了一个向湖北各地医院援助物资的校友志愿者群。
"Liu Wen-jin an alumni volunteer corps that assists hospitals across Hubei province, according to alumni.
有很多县、镇一级的基层医院都已公开发布了求助信息。
There are many county, township-level grass-roots hospitals have publicly released help information.
一名19岁的学生告诉他，目前N95口罩和符合国标的医用口罩非常紧缺，现在有一种符合欧盟标准的进口口罩有现货。
A 19-year-old student told him that there was a shortage of N95 masks and medical masks that met national standards, and that an imported mask meeting EU standards was now available.
他试图牵线当地基层与社会捐赠物资，“真的已经非常紧缺。
He is trying to match local grassroots and community donations. "It's really tight."
虽然现在官方有保障，但我认为这个是多多益善的。
There's official security now, but I think it's a lot better.
”1月26日前后，孝感市中心医院的一段视频在网络上引起关注，视频内容是医院医护人员正在用透明文件资料袋自制防护面罩。
Around January 26, a video from filial piety city central hospital, featuring hospital staff making their own masks with transparent file kits, caught online.
该医院医学装备科的工作人员告诉我们，他们已经接到不少个人或公司组织打来捐赠咨询电话，物流等渠道目前也畅通，但是和一线防护物资的实际需求相比，依然存在较大缺口。
The staff of the hospital's medical equipment department told us that they had received a number of telephone calls from individuals and companies, and that the logistics and other channels were not blocked, but there was still a large gap compared with the actual demand for first-line protective materials.
也有受访者表示，“武汉那边更揪心，可能很多事不是（光有）物资就可以缓解。
There were also interviewees who said that "Wuhan side of the more worried, probably a lot of things are not [only] material can be alleviated.
但是小县城，如果医疗物资和民生物资能够如期供给，生活还是不会出现大波动。
But small county town, if medical supplies and civilian goods can be supplied on schedule, life will not fluctuate greatly.
”孝感市中心医院的医护人员戴上了用文件袋自制的防护罩 图/受访者提供疫情宣传：有人紧张有人麻将“我们家一直在等，等村委会登记检查，等村里宣传疫情，等着取消大年初一挨家挨户拜年的习俗”“村干部在群里发了，今年不串门，不拜年。
Medical staff at Xiaogan City Central Hospital put on self-made file bags / respondents provided spread of the epidemic: "Our family has been waiting for the village committee to register and check, wait for the village to publicize the epidemic, waiting to abolish the custom of house-to-house visits on New Year's Day.
”咸宁市泉洪岭村的村民海华，今年跟着丈夫回湖北老家过年，没想到遇上咸宁因疫情封城。
Haihua, a villager from Quanhong Ridge, Xianning, followed her husband back to his hometown of Hubei for the Spring Festival this year.
大年三十晚上，她在家庭微信群里发了一条信息：“今年在家里呆着，哪里都别去了，我们这里到处封路，哪里都去不了。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, she sent a message through her family's micromail: "Stay at home this year and don't go anywhere.
”湖北地方县城村庄之间用各种方式封路 图/受访者提供她的亲戚大多在农村，怕他们不当回事，她还特意转发了一些医护人员哭泣的语音以说明事态之严重。
Hubei county blocked roads in various ways between villages / respondents offered that most of her relatives were in the countryside, fearing they would not be taken seriously.
村干部开始挨家排查村里从武汉返乡的人，她听说，村里已经有从武汉回来的人感染了。
Village officials began a house-to-house search of the village from Wuhan returnees, she heard that the village has been infected with people back from Wuhan.
也有村民戴口罩出门，但少。
Some villagers also wear masks to go out, but less.
大部分村里人还是觉得戴口罩是件格格不入的事情。
Most villagers still find wearing a mask a misfit.
同在咸宁市，通山县某村的村民珊珊却十分焦虑。
Shan Shan, a villager from Tongshan County, also in Xianning, is worried.
珊珊一直没看到村里有疫情相关的宣传，村民们还在正常拜年，不戴口罩，从武汉回来的人也不隔离。
Shan has not seen the village epidemic-related propaganda, villagers are still normal New Year, do not wear masks, and back from Wuhan people do not isolate.
她苦口婆心地说服家人和亲戚，却孤立无援，感觉自己的家乡似乎处在“疫情盲区”。
She passionately persuades her family and relatives, but is isolated and feels as if her hometown is in an "epidemic blind zone."
邻近的镇上，口罩已经卖到5元一个了。
In the neighbouring town, masks have been sold for five yuan each.
直到1月26日大年初二上午，珊珊终于等来了排查的通知。
Until the morning of January 26, Shan finally waited for the announcement of the inspection.
村组长在微信群里发了表格，让武汉返乡人员填写信息。
Village leaders in the micro-letter group issued a form to Wuhan returnees to fill in information.
“组长说，大年初二就不失礼上门登记了，让所有1月9日之后由武汉回乡的人主动登记。
"The group leader said that on the second day of the New Year did not indiscreet door registration, so that all January 9 back home by Wuhan people voluntarily registered.
”在京务工人员宁平的老家在湖北随州的一个镇上。
The hometown of Ningping, a Beijing migrant worker, is in a town in Suizhou, Hubei Province.
她于1月20日下午到达随州，途中看到疫情的新闻，为了避开武汉站，她提前在信阳下了火车，坐汽车回家。
She arrived in Suizhou on the afternoon of January 20th and saw the news of the epidemic. In order to avoid Wuhan Station, she got off the train and went home by bus in Xinyang ahead of schedule.
1月21日腊月二十七，宁平到家的第二天，她看到国家卫健委通报，国内13省（区、市）新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例149例，湖北省105例，各大媒体都在报道疫情。
January 27, 27, Ningping home the day after she saw the National Health Commission reported that 13 provinces (districts, cities) of the People's Republic of China new confirmed cases of coronavirus infection of 149 cases of pneumonia, 105 cases of Hubei Province, major media are reporting the outbreak.
“而身处小城镇的我，看到的是，赶集、购物的人，都没戴口罩，挤满了小菜市场，叫卖声、喇叭声、讨价还价的声音，声声入耳。
"I was in a small town and saw people go to the market and do their shopping without masks, packed the small vegetable markets, shouting, honking, bargaining and shouting.
村子里，返乡人员和留村人士，相互切磋着牌技，不通风的麻将馆里挤满老老少少，桌桌都有人。
In the village, the returnees and those who stayed in the village played cards with each other. The unventilated mahjong hall was crowded with people of all ages and tables.
”在麻将馆之外，还有一部分在家辛勤准备年夜饭和春节食材的家庭主妇们。
In addition to mahjong, there are some housewives who work hard at home preparing meals for New Year's Eve and the Spring Festival.
宁平的老家每年除夕前，家家户户都会自己卤肉。
Every year before New Year's Eve in Ningping's hometown, every family gets its own brine.
卤肉需要调配汤料，邻居们为了省事，往往是好多家用一锅卤料，这家用完给那家，相互传递。
Halogen meat needs to mix soup, neighbors in order to save time, is often a pot of halogen, the family used up to transfer to each other.
“我们那儿的人喜欢吃各种卤野味，像卤野兔、卤野鸡。
"Our people like to eat a variety of halogen game, such as hare, halogen pheasant.
我在家看到了两户邻居在家卤野兔，用完的卤料被其他邻居拿走接着用。
I saw two neighbors at home, Halogen Hare, the spent halogen was taken away by other neighbors and then used.
”整个村子里，没有人提疫情，没人关注返乡人员是否在武汉务工或者经过武汉，也没有人说不能吃野味，全村上上下下沉浸在要过春节的喜悦中。
No one in the village spoke of the outbreak, no one paid any attention to whether the returnees were working in Wuhan or passing through Wuhan, and no one said they could not eat game.
1月22日，世卫组织召开关于中国武汉肺炎疫情的紧急会议，央视直播国新办发布会。
January 22, the WHO convened an emergency meeting on China's Wuhan pneumonia epidemic, CCTV broadcast a new launch.
当天，宁平接连收到市区有人感染的消息，跟家人再次重申疫情严重性，提醒家人不再接触感冒、有感冒倾向、从武汉回来的人，尽量不出门。
On the same day, Ningping received a succession of reports of infection in the urban areas. He reiterated the seriousness of the outbreak with his family and reminded them not to come out of the cold, cold prone areas and Wuhan.
但据她观察，周围的邻居，尤其是返乡人士，感冒咳嗽、鼻音很重的人不在少数，真正有防护意识的人，基本没有。
But she observed that neighbors, especially returnees, a large number of people with a cold cough, a heavy nose, and a real sense of protection, basically no.
跟她家隔几户的邻居，一家10口人，加上小孩子，至少有五人感冒，而感冒的源头是他们从武汉回来的亲戚。
Neighbors, a family of 10, plus children, had at least five colds from relatives they had returned from Wuhan.
感冒之后，他们没有自行隔离，也没有戴口罩，和往常一样带孩子、串门。
After catching a cold, they do not isolate themselves, do not wear masks, as usual with the children, visiting the door.
宁平的妈妈和弟弟都觉得她危言耸听。
Ning Ping's mother and younger brother thought she was alarmist.
直到23日，武汉封城的消息出来，街上才有人戴口罩。
It was not until the news of the city's closure on the 23rd that people on the streets were wearing masks.
当天上午，她和妈妈到镇上药店去买口罩和预防性药品。
That morning, she and her mother went to the town drugstore to buy masks and preventive medicine.
集市上约70%的人戴了一层薄口罩。
About 70 percent of the market wore a thin mask.
有人没有口罩，用围巾或者衣领捂着鼻子，还有一些跟着父母的小孩用手捂着鼻子。
Some had no face masks, covered their noses with scarves or collars, and some had their nose covered with their parents' hands.
她们去的第一家药店口罩售罄，第二家药店售货员告诉她们，镇上只有她们看到的那种薄口罩，一盒50个，100块钱一盒，可以单卖。
The second drugstore assistant told them that the only thin masks they could see in the town were 50 a case, 100 yuan a case, and sold all by themselves.
可宁平认为这种口罩防御性太差。
Ke Ning Ping thinks this mask is too defensive.
“最关键的是，很多老乡并不是整盒买，而是只买几个。
"Most importantly, many folks don't buy whole boxes, but only a few.
也就是说，他们和我爸妈一样，觉得这种口罩可以反复地使用。
In other words, like my parents, they think the mask can be used over and over again.
”买完口罩再次回到村里，村里人看到她们戴着口罩、手里提着消毒液和预防药品，纷纷笑称，“没什么大事，不用表现得这么严重，都是谣言。
When they returned to the village after buying the masks, the villagers, laughing, saw them wearing masks and carrying disinfectant and preventive medicine, said, "Nothing serious, no need to be so serious.
”宁平的发小也在其列。
"Even Ningping's small hair was on the list.
发小也是从北京返乡的务工人员，之前开着车去过武汉，宁平隔着马路，极力地劝说他要消毒、要预防，他笑着说，“没事没事，不严重，真要是病了，国家说出钱治。
He also returned home from Beijing migrant workers, before driving to Wuhan, Ningping across the road, trying to persuade him to disinfect, to prevent, he smiled and said, "It's OK, not serious, if really sick, the state said pay for treatment.
”然后，下午照常去打麻将了。
Then, in the afternoon, he went to play Mahjong as usual.
1月24日，继武汉之后湖北省其他城市也开始封城，宁平看到高中同学发朋友圈说，他们村统计了春节返乡人员，并做了检查。
On January 24, following Wuhan, other cities in Hubei Province also began to close the city. Ningping saw high school classmates called Fa Friends Circle.
在市里居住的亲戚，纷纷打来电话，取消春节期间的拜年聚会。
Relatives living in the city have called to cancel the Spring Festival celebrations.
“而我们家一直在等，等村委会通知我去登记检查，等村里宣传疫情，取消大年初一挨家挨户拜年的习俗。
"My family has been waiting for the village committee to inform me to check, wait for the village to publicize the epidemic, abolish the New Year's Day door-to-door custom.
”一直等到大年初一，市区封城，去市里的道路被交警封锁。
Until the New Year's Day, the city closed, to the city's roads were blocked by traffic police.
村里的乡亲们依然像往常一样，无口罩地聚在一起闲聊；依然像往年一样，拉着宁平的爸爸要喝酒打牌，直到她妈奋力把他“抢出”，戴着口罩冲回家，关门洗手，过自行隔离的春节。
Villagers still get together as usual to chat without a mask; as usual, their father pulls Ning Ping to drink and play cards until her mother struggles to "snatch him up," runs home in a mask, shuts his hands, and has his own isolated Spring Festival.
黄黄高速出入口，警车封道。
Yellow yellow high-speed entrance, police car blocked.
部分试图上高速的本地居民被劝阻返回 图/受访者提供眼下的生活，与长远的生计“占据相当数量的、没有固定薪水的打工者，年后无法返工，就要面临生计问题”与大城市相反，在生活物资储备方面，县镇乡村的大部分受访者都表示不担心。
Some local residents who try to get on the highway are discouraged from returning to the map / respondents to provide for their immediate livelihood. In contrast to the big cities, the majority of the respondents in the counties and villages expressed no concern about the material reserve.
在黄冈蕲春，王心（化名）和亲朋好友自觉取消了所有春节的“团年饭”，一家人开始统计物资，二十多平米的菜园，16条鲫鱼，一头野山羊，十几只鸡，还有家家户户都会种的香菜、包菜……此外，身在小县城的人们也几乎不依赖公共交通，大多数人家有摩托车或自行车，擅长自给自足，自有一套生存逻辑。
At the time of the Spring Festival, the Agkistrodon acutus and his relatives and friends have cancelled all the Spring Festival reunion dinners. The family has started to count the items, 16 crucian carp, a wild goat, a dozen chickens, and the fact that most people in a small county depend on public transport.
也有出现疑似症状的人们，开始了在家自我隔离。
There were also people with suspected symptoms who began to isolate themselves at home.
仙桃的兰女士（化名）和儿子是从武汉回到仙桃的，怕传染家中老人，他们决定自我隔离14天。
Ms. Lan (alias) and her son, who returned to the peach from Wuhan, decided to isolate themselves for 14 days for fear of infecting the elderly in their home.
1月24日疫情升级后，她每天在家中用84消毒液与壶装白酒换着消毒——她有慢性咽炎，对酒精气味颇敏感。
After the outbreak escalated on January 24, she used disinfectant 84 a day at her home to disinfect it with a jug of white wine - chronic pharyngitis and sensitive to the smell of alcohol.
她的姐姐看到《湖北日报》公布的预防性中药药方，替她抓了几服，每日煎服。
Her sister saw the preventive Chinese medicine prescription published by the Hubei Daily and grabbed several doses for her daily decoction.
自行在家隔离的仙桃市民在家配备的防护口罩和按《湖北日报》公布的药方抓的中药 图/受访者提供同样在家自我隔离的鄂州人胡岳处在“想去医院不敢去”的纠结中。
Epicurean Hu Yue, who also isolated himself at home, was caught in a row over whether he wanted to go to the hospital, said Hu Yue, a Hubei resident who also isolated himself at home.
他1月9日去过武汉，回来后自觉感冒症状加重，但对照着可疑的指标一项项对——发热、胸闷、呼吸困难，这些又都没有。
He visited Wuhan on January 9 and came back conscious of an increase in cold symptoms, but none of these were matched by suspicious signs of fever, tightness in the chest or difficulty breathing.
想去医院看看，家人都劝他别去，医院二次感染几率大，反而更不安全。
Want to go to the hospital, his family advised him not to go, hospital secondary infection rate is high, but more unsafe.
而且鄂州的医疗条件与武汉相差太远，他看病从来都去武汉协和。
Moreover, the Huizhou medical condition and Wuhan difference is too far, he sees the doctor has always gone to Wuhan Concorde.
于是，他继续服用枇杷膏，下了个协和的APP想做免费咨询——结果第一个步骤就是要上传医生开的诊断单，但他感冒以来还没进过医院，于是放弃。
So, he continued to take loquat cream, made a Concorde APP to do free consultation - the first step is to upload a doctor's list of diagnoses, but he hasn't been to a hospital since catching a cold, so he quit.
随着各地区“封城令”的到来，村与村之间的道路，开始用黄土、砖块或各种方式封上了。
With the coming of the "encirclement" of the regions, the road between the village and the village began to be sealed with loess, bricks or in various ways.
咸宁于1月24日10点封城，那天，珊珊看到流传的照片，自己所在的村子和通山县城之间的路也封了。
On Jan. 24, when Xianning closed the city at 10: 00, Shan saw pictures circulating about her village and the road between Tongshan County was closed.
尽管暂时不缺生活物资，但本来在农村就供应极少的防护物资，封路后变得更难获得。
Although there is no shortage of supplies for the time being, very few protective materials are available in the countryside, making road closures even more difficult to obtain.
珊珊的口罩和消毒液已用了大半，有时还会送一些给来访的亲戚。
Shan has used most of her masks and disinfectants, sometimes sending some to visiting relatives.
湖北地方县城村庄之间用各种方式封路 图/受访者提供更大的问题是，如果节后他们一家不能回武汉、回北京工作，经济来源相当于被切断。
A bigger problem for the respondents was that if they couldn't go back to Wuhan and work in Beijing after the holidays, their financial resources would be cut off.
当阳半月镇的小高在外地工作，他的公司规定初七上班，但到时路会不会解封还是未知数。
When the town's small high in the field work, his company regulations on the seventh day of work, but the road will be unsealed or unknown.
本来他要去河南老丈人家过年，疫情出来后，怕鄂字头的车回去引起麻烦，小高便自觉取消了行程。
Originally he was going to Henan old father-in-law's family New Year, after the outbreak of disease, afraid of the Hubei word back caused trouble, Xiaogao consciously cancelled the trip.
在网上，他看到有河南人拿着横幅劝返的照片，写着类似“武汉人不要回来，自动隔离，强行回来不忠不孝”的字眼——这也让他替在湖北省外工作的同乡们感到担心。
On the Internet, he saw pictures of Henan people holding banners advising them to come back, with words like "Wuhan people don't come back, automatically isolated, forced back unfilial" - and worrying him for fellow villagers working outside Hubei province.
而在十堰，刘文所在的镇上有不少武汉返乡人，大多是体力劳动者。
But in Shiyan, Liu Wen's town has a lot of Wuhan returnees, mostly manual workers.
他也认为，他身边人承担着比城里人更大的经济压力。
He agrees that people around him are under greater economic pressure than city dwellers.
占据相当数量的、没有固定薪水的打工者，年后无法返工，就要面临生计问题——新一年的家庭开支、孩子的学费等等。
A sizeable number of unpaid wage earners, unable to return to work after a year, face livelihood problems - household expenses for the new year, school fees for their children, etc.
“我觉得大家可能在一个月之内心情是比较平静的，也是能接受的。
"I think you might be in a calmer mood for a month and that's acceptable," he said.
但是如果再时间长的话，他们不能出去工作，心态会怎么样？”刘文说。
But if it's going to take a long time, they can't go out to work. What's the mentality? "Liu said.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎专题：征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
Collecting true stories about the coronavirus infection and documenting our fates The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of the new coronavirus, writing down the stories you are experiencing or have witnessed.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、记者热线（同微信）：13918532564、136314839362、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
How to contribute: 1. Journalist hotline (tweets): 13918532564, 136314839362, Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo Discussion Topic: # I have words in the affected areas # Please make sure that the contents are true, objective, rational, do not rumor and do not spread rumors.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医护人员用文件袋自制护目镜——湖北县镇乡村防疫战。
Self-made goggles made by medical staff with file bags: rural epidemic prevention warfare in Hubei county.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "医护人员用文件袋自制护目镜——湖北县镇乡村防疫战";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "相当数量的湖北乡村务工人员，担心节后可能无法返工。
var msg _ desc = & quot; A considerable number of Hubei rural workers feared they might not be able to return to work after the holiday.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '已出现感染症状，但暂时不能确诊时，我们能做什么？',。
What can we do with & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '钟南山：守责才是最大的政治',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & rsquo; s responsibility.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '武汉试剂代理商口述：我所知道的新型肺炎确诊盒供应现状',。
At the dictation of Wuhan Reagent & amp; Reagent & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '回不了家的武汉人',。
Wuhan & apos; who couldn't return home.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
