29岁武汉女孩封城后的26天：她并不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住｜深度人物。
Twenty-nine-year-old Wuhan girl, 26 days after she closed the city, didn't want to be a hero, just not to be trapped by despair.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
采写/胡琪琛编辑/计巍 宋建华志愿者在雨中送爱心餐在这次新冠肺炎疫情中，李小熊的身份有很多。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Li Xiao-Xiong has many identities in the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
她是司机志愿者、志愿车队队长、捐款人、募捐人，因为自己被感染，成了新冠肺炎感染者，又因父母感染，成了感染者家属。
She is a volunteer driver, volunteer team leader, donor, fundraiser, because she was infected with the new crown pneumonia, but also because their parents infected, became infected with the infected family.
她曾在返回武汉当天捐出1万5千元为医院买口罩，也曾用仅仅4小时的时间组建了一支志愿车队为医院运送物资；她目睹过医生苦求一只口罩和几天几夜没睡的劳累；也感受过打无数遍120仍没有床位的绝望；她曾在做志愿者时被欺骗和误解，也感受过四面八方涌来的善意。
She donated 15,000 yuan to buy masks for the hospital on the day she returned to Wuhan, and spent just four hours building a volunteer convoy to deliver supplies to the hospital. She witnessed doctors begging for a mask and days of sleepless nights.
如果有的选，她只想做个生活在武汉的普通女孩——一个29岁“爱美”的医疗美容医师，副业是“游戏主播”。
If she has a choice, she just wants to be an ordinary girl living in Wuhan - a 29-year-old "Amei" medical cosmetologist, a "game anchor."
现在，她的父亲还在同济医院的重症病房治疗，母亲正在酒店隔离，她自己刚做完新一轮的核酸检验，正在等待最终结果。
Her father is still in the intensive care unit of Tongji Hospital, her mother is in quarantine at the hotel, and she has just finished a new round of nucleic acid tests and is awaiting the final results.
这是她的故事，也是千千万万志愿者和普通人的故事。
This is her story, as well as that of millions of volunteers and ordinary people.
在这座“英雄的城市”，她并不想成为一个“英雄”，只是想不被绝望困住。
In this "heroic city," she did not want to be a "hero", just want not to be trapped by despair.
志愿者给医院送物资四小时组一支车队1月23日晚上，李小熊的手机被打爆了。
Volunteers Deliver Supplies to Hospital for 4 Hours A convoy was hit by Li's cell phone on the night of January 23.
一分钟里她接了两个来电，新的电话刚接不过几秒钟，又有下一个插了进来。
In a minute she answered two calls. The new one was only a few seconds old, and the next one came in.
手机里还有上百条短信和微信等着她回复。
The phone still has hundreds of text messages and citations waiting for her to reply.
来电的是一个个陌生人，年轻人居多，语气无一例外地焦急，“我要捐款，你能帮我买些物资送到医院吗？““加我微信说具体要求。
Caller is a stranger, most of the young people, without exception anxious tone, "I would like to donate, you can help me buy some supplies to the hospital?"
”李小熊迅速挂了电话，没时间多说一句话。
"Li XiaoBear hung up the phone so quickly that he had no time to say another word.
12个小时前，1月23日7点30分前后，李小熊搭上了从长沙回武汉的火车，满心期待着和父母团圆，与男友相聚。
Around 7: 30 on January 23, 12 hours ago, Li Xiong picked up a train from Changsha back to Wuhan, full of hope and parents to reunite with their boyfriends.
但很快，因为没戴口罩，她被乘务员严厉地说了一通。
But soon, because she wasn't wearing a mask, she was sternly told by the flight attendant.
“我身边还没有人得（新冠肺炎），就还没有那么紧张。
"I haven't got anyone around yet, so it's not that stressful.
”李小熊解释。
"Li explained.
两个半小时后，武汉封闭交通，全市的城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客车暂停运营。
Two and a half hours later, Wuhan closed traffic, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, coach suspended operations.
李小熊在这之前抵达武汉。
Li Xiong had arrived in Wuhan before then.
那并不是她所熟悉的武汉，眼前的一切让她感到压抑和紧张：出站后，“人很少很少，很荒凉”，除了自己之外几乎所有人都戴了口罩；朋友圈要么在高价卖口罩，要么在高价求口罩；很多医院发出的物资求助信在社交媒体上被频繁转发。
It wasn't Wuhan, as she knew it, and all she saw made her depress and nervous: "There are very few people, very desolate," almost all of them wearing masks except for herself; friends were either selling masks at high prices or asking for masks at high prices; and many hospital requests for help were frequently relayed on social media.
武汉大学中南医院是武汉第一家发出求助信的医院，它离李小熊的家不过3公里，开车只用8分钟，李小熊觉得作为附近的居民，应该做些什么。
The Zhongnan Hospital, the first Wuhan hospital to issue a letter of request for help, is only three kilometers from Li's home and only eight minutes' drive away.
当晚7点41分，她发了一条朋友圈，“我要大量买（口罩），谁有资源，我很着急。
At 7: 41 p.m., she sent out a circle of friends, "I want to buy a lot [masks], who has the resources, I am worried.
”在朋友的帮助下，她联系到了武汉附近的一家口罩生产商，自己花钱买了一万五千元的口罩。
"With the help of her friends, she contacted a mask manufacturer near Wuhan and bought her own 15,000-yuan mask.
她没想到的是，很多人打来电话，想让她帮忙代买物资一同捐赠给医院。
To her surprise, many people called and asked her to donate the supplies to the hospital.
想捐赠的人太多，募集物资多到“一个人根本拉不了”。
Want to donate too many people, to raise more than "a person can not pull."
10点整，她又发了一条朋友圈，“打算组建一个车队，专门运送大家捐助的物资给各个医院，有住在武昌愿意当志愿者的亲人联系我。
At ten o'clock sharp, she sent out a circle of friends, "I intend to form a convoy, special delivery of donated goods to the hospitals, there are Wuchang willing to volunteer relatives contact me.
”电话再次涌来，群里很快加入了70多名司机志愿者。
The phone rang again and the group quickly joined more than 70 volunteers as drivers.
医生也打电话找她求助，“下班了没车，车队能否帮忙送一下？”李小熊意识到，车队除了送物资，还可以送医生。
The doctor called her for help, too. "Can the motorcade deliver it when it's off duty?" Li realized that the convoy could deliver not only supplies, but also doctors.
她再次发朋友圈，“武汉市内只要是医护人员进出打不到车的，请随时和我联系，24小时待命，我负责安排接送”。
She once again sent circle of friends, "Wuhan City as long as the medical personnel can not get in and out of the car, please contact me, 24-hour standby, I responsible for arrangements."
随着这条朋友圈不断被转发，李小熊感觉一时间“似乎全城的医院都给我电话了”。
As the circle of friends continued to be relayed, Li felt as if "all the hospitals in the city had called me" for a while.
她加上他们的微信，将有坐车需求的医生和志愿者司机拉进一个群里，让大家自行对接，并且将群二维码分享到了朋友圈，让有需求的人自行扫码入群。
Together with their message, she pulled doctors and volunteer drivers who needed to ride into a group, had people docking on their own, and shared the group's two-dimensional code with friends, allowing those in need to scour the crowd themselves.
之后，她的微信提示音以秒的频率持续响起。
Then her microphone beep continued to ring in seconds.
从当晚那条“求口罩”的朋友圈发出之后的四个小时里，李小熊共发了20条朋友圈，接打了400多个电话，收到100多条短信，添加1000多名好友，回复上千条微信，3个新建的微信群被扫满。
Within four hours of the night's outpouring of friends, Li sent out 20 friendship circles, made more than 400 phone calls, received more than 100 text messages, added more than 1,000 friends, responded to thousands of micromessages, and swept up three new mailboxes.
朋友告诉她，善缘义助公益基金会执行秘书长张小艳也在组建志愿车队，李小熊加上了她的微信。
Friends told her that Zhang Xiaoyan, executive secretary of the Benevolent Welfare Foundation, was also forming a volunteer team, and Li added her message.
“她主动找到我，说如果我这有什么需求都可以跟她提。
"She volunteered to come to me and tell her if I needed anything.
” 张小艳说。
"said Zhang.
很快，张小艳的志愿车队群也都爆满。
Soon, Zhang Xiaoyan's volunteer fleet was also full.
李小熊成为善缘车队武昌区域队长，负责车队的调度，同时也是物资捐赠者与医院、医护人员与司机之间的信息中转站。
Li Xiong became the leader of Wuchang District Team, in charge of the dispatch of the convoy, but also between material donors and hospitals, medical personnel and drivers of the information center.
晚上11点58分，李小熊发了当晚最后一条朋友圈，“我们还需要大量的防护服和护目镜，符合医疗水平的厂商可以联系我，各区志愿者还需要人手，大家来之前请与家人商量好，这不是开玩笑的。
"We still need a lot of protective clothing and goggles," Li said at 11: 58 p. m., "We need a lot of protective clothing and goggles, medical manufacturers can contact me, volunteers from all over the region need manpower, please discuss with your family before you come, it is not a joke.
”志愿者运送的物资接受交警检查困难、误解和委屈起初，李小熊并没有告诉家人自己在做志愿车队的事，直到因为手机24小时持续作响，她吃饭时也在盯着手机，家人发了脾气，她才把这件事说了出来。
Initially, Li did not tell her family about the volunteer convoy until she was angry with her family when her cell phone kept buzzing around the clock and she was staring at her cell phone while she ate.
起初父母怕她感染不让她出门，后来理解了她，让她“保护好自己”。
At first her parents were afraid she would not let her out of the house. Later they understood her and told her to "protect herself."
善缘车队一共55个私家车队队长，张小艳说，李小熊让她印象很深刻，“她一边发动车队，一边自己也接送，一边募捐。
Zhang Xiaoyan, head of a fleet of 55 private cars, said she was impressed. "She started the team and picked it up while collecting money for herself.
”1月26日，雷神山医院刚施工不久，赶上下雨，工人们急需雨鞋、雨衣和冲锋衣。
On January 26, shortly after construction began, it rained and workers desperately needed rain shoes, raincoats and blazers.
当天下午，张小艳在朋友圈发布募捐信息，凌晨，她收到李小熊发来的微信，“物资我已经全部筹集好了，这两天就会寄过去。
That afternoon, Zhang Xiaoyan in the circle of friends to release fund-raising information, early in the morning, she received Li Xiong sent a message, "I have raised all the materials, will be sent in the next two days.
”“简直神速！”张小艳说。
"That's amazing!" Zhang Xiaoyan said.
看到雷神山医院急需物资的信息后，李小熊第一时间发朋友圈广而告之。
Seeing Lei Shenshan Hospital in urgent need of material information, Li Xiong the first time to issue a circle of friends to widely inform.
“我这个微信号之前就加了三四千人，大家都帮我转发了募捐信息，也相信我，很快就有人直接来找我。
"I had three or four thousand people up there before this little signal, and people were forwarding the fund-raising messages for me and believing me, someone came straight to me soon.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
远在北京的张晨就是找到小熊的捐赠人之一。
Zhang Chen, as far away as Beijing, was one of the donors who found the bear.
她在北京经营一家品牌运动服专卖店。
She runs a brand sportswear store in Beijing.
当晚，她在群里看到了同行转发李小熊的朋友圈求物资的截图，马上加了她。
That night, she saw in the group peer forward Li Xiong's friends to ask for a screenshot of supplies, immediately added her.
“她跟我说了很多，这绝对是真实的，我觉得她不会撒谎，大家谈到一块来了。
"She told me a lot, it was absolutely true, I don't think she would lie, and we talked about it together.
”张晨说。
"said Zhang Chen.
李小熊问她，衣服怎么买？张晨说，我不要钱。
Li asked her how to buy the clothes. Zhang Chen said, I don't want any money.
之后，张晨一直关注着李小熊的朋友圈，“就觉得小熊特别努力，很晚了还在微信群里协调物资，今天说哪个医院需要车，明天又是哪个医院需要物资，互相做媒介”。
After that, Zhang Chen has been watching Li Xiong's circle of friends. "I think the bear worked very hard, very late in the micro-letter group to coordinate supplies, today said which hospital needs a car, tomorrow is which hospital needs supplies, the other as a medium.
武汉住家集团董事长卞亚光也在善缘车队的微信群里。
Wuhan Homestead Group Chairman Bian Yaguang is also in the good edge of the team micro-letter group.
当时，他有一名北京的同学要捐物资到武汉。
At that time, he had a classmate from Beijing to donate materials to Wuhan.
车开到武汉附近，因交通封闭无法通行。
Cars near Wuhan, because of the closure of the traffic is impassable.
他求助小熊，“就是她帮我介绍了一个人，安排了六辆车，对接物资送到湖北物流中心后，又分配到了各个医院”。
He asked for help from the bear. "It was she who introduced me, arranged for six cars, docked the goods to Hubei Logistics Center, and then distributed them to hospitals.
二十多天的时间里，卞亚光目睹善缘车队的群里许多司机因为各种原因陆陆续续退出，但李小熊一直在，“做一次好事容易，一直做好事很难。
For more than 20 days Bieniguang saw many drivers in the group of Good Yuan gradually drop out for a variety of reasons, but Li Xiong has been there, "It is easy to do a good thing, it is difficult to do good.
我对小熊还是挺佩服的。
I still admire Cubs.
”“是很难”，李小熊毫不否认这一点。
"It's hard," Li said, without denying it.
从组织车队到现在，每个阶段有不同难处。
From the formation of the motorcade to the present, there are different difficulties at each stage.
最近她的难是五十吨蔬菜。
Her problem recently was fifty tons of vegetables.
有医院向她反映，肉和蔬菜极其紧缺，吃饭很成问题。
She was told by the hospital that meat and vegetables were scarce and that eating was problematic.
李小熊发了愁，湖北省内现在每个城市都物资紧缺，只能从外省想办法。
Xiao Xiong Li worried that every city in Hubei Province is short of materials now, only to find ways from the provinces.
正好她的十年挚友有个云南朋友，愿意捐赠五十吨蔬菜。
Her ten-year best friend had a friend from Yunnan who offered to donate fifty tons of vegetables.
但蔬菜长在云南的大棚里，如何运来武汉又成了棘手的问题。
But growing vegetables in the big shed in Yunnan, how to transport Wuhan has become a thorny problem.
李小熊和善缘车队的几个负责人想到，或许可以找云南当地的卡车司机，付运费让他们运过来，但至今未果。
Several of Li's officials thought it might be possible to find a local truck driver in Yunnan to pay for the transportation, but so far without success.
“给钱都不来，往武汉送东西回去起码隔离14天，谁愿意吃这个亏？”李小熊说。
"Do not pay money, send things back to Wuhan at least 14 days isolation, who would like to eat this deficit?" Li Xiong said.
他们又试着联系武汉本地的司机。
They also tried to contact the local Wuhan driver.
从武汉开车去云南不眠不休来回跑，也要个四天，蔬菜就算能运回，也怕早烂了。
From Wuhan to Yunnan Province driving to and fro sleepless, also takes four days, even if the vegetables can be shipped back, also afraid of premature decay.
哪怕蔬菜真的上了高速，也可能面临种种问题。
Even if the vegetables do go up at a high speed, they may face problems.
“一段高速可能有七八个检测点要查车，你说是私人捐赠，交管有可能会觉得你是高价贩卖，给你没收了。
"There may be seven or eight inspection points at a high speed, and if you say it's a private donation, you might think you're selling at a high price and confiscate it.
”李小熊也考虑过快递，但这蔬菜50吨，快递费几乎上万，不太实际：捐了五十吨蔬菜，总不能让捐赠者再掏一笔物流费；让医院拿钱，不太合理也没人愿意；自己出，“很多志愿者月薪就几千块，没有这么多钱。
Li has considered express delivery, but the vegetable is 50 tons, almost tens of thousands of dollars in express delivery: donating 50 tons of vegetables does not always cost the donor any more in logistics; getting money from a hospital is neither reasonable nor desirable; and, by himself, "a lot of volunteers make thousands of dollars a month and don't have that kind of money.
”蔬菜哪怕到了武汉市内，也还要经过一系列手续。
Even when they arrive in Wuhan, vegetables go through a series of formalities.
“还需要质检报告，我有朋友之前联系了一家协会想要捐赠几万斤蔬菜，但就是卡到检测报告这个环节，最后蔬菜全烂掉了。
"We also need a quality report. A friend of mine contacted an association that wanted to donate tens of thousands of pounds of vegetables, but they got stuck in the test report and the whole thing went bad.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
李小熊还在想办法。
Li Xiong is still trying to figure it out.
从车队成立至今，她一直在想办法解决各种问题。
She has been trying to solve all kinds of problems since the team was founded.
车队成立头两天，医生用车需求远大于司机数量，李小熊白天处理物资对接事务，每晚“不那么忙”的时候驱车接送医生，天亮才回，曾连续两天没有睡觉。
During the first two days of the convoy, when the demand for doctors' cars far exceeded the number of drivers, Li handled the docking during the day, drove the doctor every night "less busy" and returned at daybreak without sleep for two days.
车队成立第三天，1月25日下午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发出通告，从1月26日零时开始，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域机动车禁行。
On the afternoon of January 25, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice announcing that motor vehicles would be banned in central urban areas starting from 0000 hours on January 26, with the exception of licensed supply trucks, free transport vehicles and official vehicles.
因缺乏防护物资，此时善缘车队其他区域车队也有几名司机因感染相继退出。
Due to the lack of protective equipment, the other areas of the good edge convoy also had a number of drivers out of the infection.
当天下午，她在朋友圈发出公告，“很遗憾，武汉善缘车队今天不能接送医护人员了，一是因为机动车禁行通知，一是因为爱心车主没有足够的防护服等装备，很不安全。
"I'm sorry that Wuhan Shanyuan couldn't pick up the paramedics today because of the ban on motor vehicles and because the owners of loving cars did not have enough equipment, such as protective clothing, and were very unsafe," she said.
”汽修行业的张顺顺是善缘车队的志愿车主之一，看到李小熊的公告后，他还是不想退出。
Zhang Shunshun of the auto-repair industry is one of the volunteers for the good-margin team and he still doesn't want to quit after seeing Li's announcement.
“但要保护好自己才能更好地保护他人”，考虑到自身安全，他联系李小熊，希望能从她那里要套防护服，但“要了很久都没要到，她那里物资也很紧张，我就自己想办法在外面谋了两套防护服，又坚持做了几天。
"But to protect himself can better protect others," he said, considering his own safety. He contacted Li Xiong, hoping to get protective clothing from her, but "after a long delay and her supplies were tight, I managed to get two suits outside and did it for a few more days.
”李小熊此时正因防护服的事情忙得焦头烂额，“别人因为我而来，跟着我在一块做事情，我总得保证别人的安全”。
"Li is busy with his suit," he said. "People are coming because of me and doing things with me, and I have to make sure other people are safe.
四处询问后，她从几位防护服捐赠者那以50元每套的价格自费购买了20套防护服。
After much questioning, she bought 20 suits at her own expense from several protective clothing donors at a price of $50 per set.
当时50多人在出车，20套不够，她就让有防护服的车主接送医生，没防护服的运送物资。
More than 50 people were on the road, and 20 were not enough. She asked the owner of the protective clothing to take the doctor to the hospital.
“当时我让张顺顺出示之前接送医生的记录，他说没有，我就没有给他防护服。
"I asked Zhang Shun-shun to show the record of the doctor he had taken before, and he said no, so I didn't give him the suit.
”李小熊说，“防护服很紧张， 本来是一次性的东西，我们只能用完后酒精消毒重复使用。
"The protective clothing was very tight, it was a disposable thing and we had to disinfect it and reuse it," Li said.
”机动车禁令下发后，各大医院陆续开设班车解决医护人员的通行问题。
Since the ban on motor vehicles was issued, major hospitals have been running buses to solve the problem of medical personnel's passage.
李小熊车队的工作重心转到运送物资和派送医护人员的一日三餐上。
Li's team's focus shifted to three meals a day to deliver supplies and medical personnel.
现在，李小熊的车队每天平均有十几人出车，每辆车每天至少要跑一百公里，一天一共要送二十多趟物资或盒饭。
Now, on average, Li's motorcade travels about a dozen people a day, each covering at least 100 kilometers a day and carrying more than 20 loads of supplies or boxes of rice a day.
武汉三镇之间距离不近，有时候一趟物资就要跑三十公里远。
Wuhan three towns are not close to each other, sometimes a journey of goods to run 30 kilometers.
来回几趟，一天就过去了。
A few trips back and forth, and a day passed.
李小熊常跟车给医院送物资。
Xiao Xiong often delivers goods to the hospital with his car.
“有次一来两三百个箱子，我们几个女孩子搬，数不清来来回回搬了多少趟。
Once there were two or three hundred boxes, and we girls carried them, and made countless trips back and forth.
”她和志愿者们有时还会遇到骗子。
"She and the volunteers sometimes ran into con artists.
一位外地的好心人联系到他们，转账7000块，托他们买些东西送到武汉某家医院。
They were contacted by a well-intentioned man from another place, who transferred 7,000 yuan and sent them to a hospital in Wuhan.
不久就有人打电话来，自称他们就是接收医院的人，李小熊的车队就把物资按照那人提供地址送了过去。
A few moments later someone called and said they were the people receiving the hospital. Li's motorcade took the supplies to the man at his address.
“谁能想到在这时候还会有骗子！”小熊有些懊恼，“我们忙到根本没来得及核实信息，后来医院来电话说没有接收到物资。
"Who would have thought there would be another liar at this time?" Cubs chagrined. "We were too busy to verify the information until the hospital called to say no supplies had been received.
我们就再去联系那个人，才发现他把我们删了，电话也不接了，这才意识到被骗了。
We then went to contact that person, only to find that he deleted us, the phone did not answer, then realized that he had been cheated.
”最后，李小熊和这趟物资的负责人凑了7000块钱，还给捐献者，跟他道歉。
"Finally, Li Xiong and the person in charge of the supplies gathered 7,000 yuan and returned it to the donor to apologize.
捐献者收回了钱，却怀疑李小熊才是骗子。
The donor takes back the money, but suspects that Lee is the liar.
但这也给李小熊提了醒，之后每次接收物资，接收方必须出示身份证和医师资格证，拍视频存档，或签写盖有医院公章的物资接收单。
But it also woke Li up, and each time he received the supplies, the recipient had to show his identity card and a medical certificate, take a video file, or sign a receipt with the official seal of the hospital.
但这也并不能阻止骗子的出现。
But that doesn't stop the crooks.
2月17日，他们抓住一个混进物资对接群里的骗子，“他拿着假的工作证，假装自己是医院的负责人，四处收捐赠者的物资。
On 17 February, they caught a swindler who had infiltrated the cargo docking group. He pretended to be the head of the hospital and was collecting supplies from donors.
”李小熊说，“有人把他举报了，被踢出了群。
"Someone reported him and got kicked out of the crowd," Li said.
”至于机动车禁行后志愿者车队通行的问题，到现在还未解决。
"As for the passage of volunteer convoys after the ban, it has not yet been resolved.
早期他们的车队义务帮武汉红十字会派送物资，交管部门让车队司机在车上贴一个车标，后视镜上挂一条绿色丝带，作为通行的标志。
In the early days, their motorcade volunteered supplies for the Wuhan Red Cross, which asked the motorcade driver to put a sign on the car and a green ribbon on the rearview mirror as a general sign.
“后来武汉红十字会被质疑，我们也不再跟它有联系了”，如今的车队通行就靠两张证明单：捐赠单位的证明单和受赠医院的接收单。
"Wuhan Red Cross Society was questioned, we no longer have contact with it," the convoy today rely on two attestations: the certificate from the donor unit and the acceptance form from the grantee hospital.
“有两张单基本不会被交警拦，但可能还是会被扣分。
"There are two tickets that are basically unstoppable to the traffic police, but could still be marked down.
这两张单子也不是每个司机都会有。
Neither of the two lists is for every driver.
20辆车一起去搬物资，手里没有接收单的车主有时可能就会遇到一些问题。
Owners who do not have a receipt slip may sometimes have problems moving supplies together.
”还有一些误解也让志愿车主感到无力和委屈。
There are also misunderstandings that leave volunteer drivers feeling powerless and aggrieved.
志愿车队由市民自发组成，“加油的费用都是自己来掏”。
Volunteer motorcades are composed of the citizens themselves. "The cost of refuelling is at your own expense."
但他们也常被误解为收了政府或机构的钱，“好像是我们应该做这种事情，所以有时对我们也很不客气”。
But they are often misunderstood as taking money from governments or institutions, "as if we were supposed to do this, so sometimes it's rude to us."
2月15日，善缘和另一个志愿车队一起派出了18辆车按照接收单给部分医院派送350台取暖器。
On 15 February, Ciyuan, together with another volunteer convoy, dispatched 18 vehicles to deliver 350 heaters to some hospitals in accordance with the receiving list.
取暖器很占空间，一辆车装不下两三个，志愿者来来回回跑了很多趟。
The heater takes up a lot of space, a car can't hold two or three, and volunteers go back and forth many times.
当晚12点半，出车的一名志愿者到医院的楼下，在风雨中打电话给医院的负责人让他接收一下取暖器。
At 12: 30 that evening, a volunteer from the bus went downstairs to the hospital and called the hospital director during the storm to receive the heater.
负责人说，现在太晚了，没人接收，就挂了电话。
The person in charge said it was too late to be accepted and hung up the phone.
志愿者再打，那头就是关机的声音。
Volunteers hit again, the other end is the sound of power off.
“我们就是怕医护人员大半夜的工作、睡觉冷才会连夜送过去，而且之前也都说好了。
"We were afraid that the nurses would have to work and sleep cold in the middle of the night to send it over, and we had said it before.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
“这种情况其实挺多的，所以我很理解退出的人”，最顶峰的时候，李小熊所在的车队有一千多人，到现在，车队常出车的人，五十有余。
"There's a lot of that, so I understand the exits." At its peak, there were more than a thousand people in Li's convoy, and today, the motorcade has more than 50 people.
“能坚持下来的人，靠的是像小孩子一样的一片善心。
"He who can persist depends on a good heart like a child.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
环卫工人在吃志愿者派发的爱心餐能感受到善意的人李小熊自己还没有想过放弃。
Sanitation workers in the distribution of food volunteers can feel the goodwill of the people Li Xiong has not thought of giving up.
也不是没有怀疑过捐物资的必要性。
It is not without doubt that donations are necessary.
在她给雷神山医院募集物资时，很多人找她私聊说，政府一定会投入相应资金给雷神山医院，足够买这几百件衣服和鞋子，民间募集物资是不是没那么必要？李小熊担心的是，如果物资不能尽快到达建筑工人手中，他们就会受苦。
When she collected supplies for Raytheon Mountain Hospital, many people talked to her in private, saying the government would certainly invest enough money to buy hundreds of clothes and shoes, and whether civilian collection was not necessary.
“那时其实还有很多人没有被看到：养老院里的老人、透析的病人、孕妇、重灾社区的居民、工地的工人等等。
"There were a lot of people who weren't there: elderly people in nursing homes, dialysis patients, pregnant women, residents of severely affected communities, site workers, etc.
我们同样关心他们有没有做好防护，有没有吃的喝的。
We are also concerned about whether they are well protected from food and drink.
”更重要的是，她觉得自己是“能感受到善意的人”，能从中获得力量。
More importantly, she felt that she was a "person of good will" who could gain strength from it.
志愿者们总能给她惺惺相惜的快乐。
The volunteers always give her a little bit of sympathy.
“这群在家连碗都懒得洗的80、90后，现在出门就搬箱子，承担责任啊，积极为社会做事情啊。
"This group of people do not even wash the bowl after 80, 90, now go out to carry boxes, take responsibility ah, actively do things for society.
”李小熊说，“我们这边募集到物资，然后实实在在到了别人手上，实实在在帮助人家就够了。
"We raised supplies here, and then actually got them, and really helped people," Li said.
”招募志愿者时，她遇到过一个20多岁的青年。
When recruiting volunteers, she met a young man in her 20s.
她问他，你来做这个志愿者，你爸爸妈妈知不知道？这个病感染了可能会死。
She asks him, you come to do this volunteer, do your parents know? This disease infected may die.
他说，我爸妈不知道，我爸妈要是知道的话肯定要打死我。
'My parents didn't know, 'he says.' My parents would have killed me if they'd known. '
她问他名字，他不说。
She asked him his name, but he would not.
她继续问，你不怕把病毒带回去了吗？他说，我没有回家了。
'she continued,' are you not afraid to take the virus home? 'he said.
她问，那你在哪睡呢？他说，睡在车上。
she asked.Then where do you sleep, he said, sleeping in the car.
之后，他在接送一个确诊病人后，开始出现咳嗽发烧的症状。
After that, he began to develop symptoms of cough and fever after he picked up a confirmed patient.
他告诉李小熊，自己似乎也感染了，需要去医院看病，车队这边估计很难再坚持，就再也没有出现在车队群里。
He told Li Xiong that he, too, seemed to be infected and needed to go to the hospital. It was difficult for the convoy to insist and it never showed up in the convoy again.
后来李小熊也忙，慢慢失去了与他的联系，毕竟“瞒着父母偷偷来做志愿者的人太多了”。
Later Li Xiong also busy, slowly lost contact with him, after all, "the parents secretly come to volunteer too many people."
不仅是志愿者，她几乎每天都能感受到社会各方人士，在自己的位置上，做着力所能及的事情。
Not only is she a volunteer, she can feel people from all walks of life almost every day, in her own position, doing what she can.
某企业捐方便面给一些医院，她发朋友圈说，感谢企业捐了一万桶泡面。
One business donates instant noodles to some hospitals, she says, thanking businesses for donating 10,000 barrels of noodles.
一群医生护士在这条朋友圈下面评论，“好羡慕还有泡面吃，我们已经一天没有吃饭了”。
A group of doctors and nurses under this circle of friends commented, "I envy and bubble noodles, we have not had a meal for a day."
她很心酸，连忙发动几个朋友一起找餐厅，出钱请那里为医生做些热饭吃。
She was so sad that she quickly asked some friends to find a restaurant and pay for a hot meal for the doctor there.
结果一两个“就两三个平方大”的炒饭店铺老板打来电话，“我们给医护人员做，不收钱”。
As a result, one or two "two or three square" fried rice shop owners called, "we do it for medical staff, no money."
武汉刚开始封闭交通那几天，李小熊看见医生护士常常忙到24小时连轴转，没有地方休息，又不能睡在地上。
Wuhan began to close the traffic days, Li Xiong saw doctors and nurses often busy to 24-hour rotation, no place to rest, and can not sleep on the ground.
她和车队志愿者去找医院旁边的那些小酒店，挨家挨户地谈，询问能不能免费给医生提供住宿。
She and the motorcade volunteers went to the small hotels next to the hospital, went door-to-door, and asked if they could accommodate the doctor free of charge.
“没想到我们的建议被很多酒店采纳了。
"I didn't think our suggestion was adopted by many hotels.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
卞亚光知道李小熊在寻找酒店，主动联系她，将自己手上四处长租公寓全部无偿分享出来。
Bian Ya-guang knew that Li Xiong was looking for a hotel, contact her and share all the rented apartments for free.
在他的公寓住满了人后，他又建了一个行业群，邀请自己认识的所有公寓老板一起为抗疫做些事情。
After his apartment was full, he set up an industry group and invited all the apartment owners he knew to do something about it.
很多时候，李小熊觉得自己和志愿者们被善意包围着。
Many times, Li feels surrounded by goodwill, along with his volunteers.
志愿者们帮社区的老人跑腿送菜、买药，药店的老板就给他们的兜里塞酒精和消毒水；车队的车没地方消毒，汽车清洗店的老板主动提出要给志愿者的车子洗车消毒；志愿者送菜给社区，社区居民将自己家中的腊肉、专门做的年货成斤地拿出来送给志愿者。
Volunteers run errands and buy medicine for the elderly in their neighborhoods. Drug store owners fill their pockets with alcohol and disinfectant. Car cleaners offer to disinfect the volunteers' cars.
梨园医院物资一直十分紧缺。
There has been a shortage of supplies in Lei Yuan Hospital.
有几次李小熊给那里送物资时，整个医院的口罩和防护服已经所剩无几。
On a few occasions when Li sent supplies there, the entire hospital had few face masks and protective clothing left.
他们送到时，医生护士特别感激，“你们要是再不来的话，我们都不知道今天晚上怎么办了，都要空手上阵了。
When they arrived, the doctor and nurse were very grateful. "If you don't show up, we don't know what to do tonight.
” 然后，医生拆开箱子，拿出几件防护服，塞给李小熊和志愿者。
"Then the doctor took the box apart, took out some protective clothing and shoved it into Li XiaoBear and the volunteers.
还有一次，晚上八点，李小熊和两个同伴一起到武汉市第五医院送物资。
Another time, at 8 pm, Li Xiong and two companions together to Wuhan Fifth Hospital to deliver supplies.
他们下车搬箱子，医院的两位物资接收者、忙碌了一整天的医生立刻前来帮忙。
They got out of the car to carry the boxes, and two hospital receivers, doctors, who had been busy all day, immediately came to help.
李小熊和同伴怕医生劳累，又怕他们弄坏防护服，不让他们搬运，但医生一边搬一边嘱咐他们，“在外面跑一定要注意防护与安全。
Fearing the fatigue of the doctors, and fearing that they might damage their suits and prevent them from carrying them, Li and his companions instructed them, "You must be careful when you run outside.
”搬完物资后，两名医生拿出几套医院紧缺的防护服和护目镜往他们身上塞。
"After moving the supplies, the two doctors pulled out sets of hospital suits and goggles, which were in short supply, and stuffed them.
他们越推辞，医生越坚持。
The more they refused, the more the doctor insisted.
李小熊和同伴赶紧驱车离开，医生追着车，通过车窗把防护服、护目镜往她们车里扔。
Li and his companions drove away, and the doctor chased the car, throwing protective clothing and goggles into their car through the window.
她坐在车上，说不出一句话来。
She sat in the car and couldn't say a word.
车队志愿者送物资到社区无能为力的绝望1月29日凌晨，李小熊感觉自己快要死了。
In the early morning hours of January 29, Li Xiong felt as if he was going to die.
她脸庞枯黄，眼神麻痹呆滞，脖子上的淋巴肿大，全身无力地瘫在床上，浑身疼得“像是被人暴揍了一顿”。
Her face was sallow, her eyes numb, her neck swollen, her body limp in bed, and she was "as if she had been beaten violently."
等着回家的医生、等着去接医生的司机、物资捐赠者，以及医院的物资接收处并不知道这件事。
The doctor waiting to go home, the driver waiting to pick up the doctor, the material donor, and the hospital's material reception were unaware of the incident.
在他们心中，李小熊仍是那个“长得漂亮的志愿车队队长”。
In their hearts, Li Xiong is still the "handsome volunteer team captain."
他们像往常一样，不停地给李小熊发微信，一分钟打两个电话，等待她的帮助或调度。
As usual, they continued to send microphone messages to Li Xiong, making two phone calls a minute, waiting for her help or dispatch.
这个29岁的女孩蜷缩在被窝里，抹了抹眼泪，举起手机，试着打字回复，但最终因为没有力气而失败。
The 29-year-old girl curled up under the covers, wiped her tears, held up her mobile phone and tried to type back, but failed because of lack of energy.
她只好试着用虚弱的声音发出一条条语音回复。
She tried to reply in a weak voice.
1月26日前后，李小熊出现了发烧等症状，1月27日她去做了核酸检验，次日拿到结果，为阳性。
Around January 26, Li Xiong developed fever and other symptoms, January 27, she went to a nucleic acid test, the next day the results, positive.
拿到确诊结果时，她躲在房间里每天哭，脑子里一直在想“会不会死”？觉得自己“快熬不过去的时候”，她费尽全力编辑了一条朋友圈，里面提到她和男友的订婚计划，附上了两人曾经在KTV一起唱《月半小夜曲》的视频。
When she got the result, she cried every day in her room, wondering if she was going to die, and thought she was going to make it through, so she went out of her way to compile a circle of friends that mentioned her engagement plans with her boyfriend and included a video of them singing "The Half Moon Night" on KTV.
她想，就算明天再也醒不过来，至少人生最后一条朋友圈是幸福的。
She thought, even if tomorrow will never wake up, at least the last circle of friends is happy.
但转念一想，她告诉自己还是要坚持吃药，还是做该做的事情，“如果人都要死了，也改变不了什么，那就再多做一些好事吧。
But on second thought, she told herself whether she would take the medicine or do the right thing. "If you die and nothing changes, do something good.
那么多人需要我去帮忙。
So many people need me to help.
”那只响个不停的手机，和一条一条急需回复的信息，成了患病期间某种支撑她的东西。
The ringing cell phone and a badly needed message became something to support her during the illness.
“一直在做事情，忙到信息都回不完，你就不会想着说我哪里好痛，注意力就被分散了。
"If you keep doing something so busy that you can't get back all the information, you won't think about how painful it is to me and your attention is distracted.
”她的身体真的慢慢好了起来。
"She was getting better and better.
先是退了烧，之后身上也不疼了，慢慢也有了力气。
First back to burn, after the body does not ache, slowly also have the strength.
她很早就通过社区、医院等渠道等待床位，她还曾开玩笑：说不定我没有等到床位病就好了。
She had been waiting for beds through community, hospital and other channels early on, joking that I might not have waited for my bed to get sick.
没想到真被自己说中了。
I didn't think I was right.
她好了，父亲却病了。
She is well, but her father is ill.
2月1日，父亲开始发烧。
On 1 February, my father began to have a fever.
转天，她带着父亲去医院排队13个小时拍CT，做核酸检验。
The next day she took her father to the hospital for a 13-hour CT scan for a nucleic acid test.
2月5日，她拿到父亲核酸检验结果，确定为阳性。
On 5 February, she received the results of her father's nucleic acid test, which confirmed her to be positive.
她和母亲林桂花一起去社区为父亲争取床位。
She went to the community with her mother, Laurel Lin, to fight for her father's bed.
得到的回复是，“现在没床位，要等。
The answer was, "There are no beds, wait.
”她只好把父亲安置在家里。
"She had to put her father at home.
她目睹折磨过自己的病毒，再次折磨自己的父亲。
She saw the virus that tortured her and tortured her father again.
父亲躺在床上丧失自理能力的样子，像是已经瘫痪多年。
His father lay helpless in bed, as if he had been paralyzed for years.
他常常大小便失禁，母亲给他买了老人用的便盆，但父亲用着用着就洒到了身上和床单上，母亲就只能将人和物全部洗一遍。
His mother bought him a toilet bowl for the old man, but the father spilled it on the body and the sheets, and the mother had to wash them all.
连续几天，父亲一天三至四次地反复发烧，吃退烧药毫无作用，母亲只能不断给他擦身子散热。
For several days, my father had a fever three to four times a day. Taking antipyretics did nothing but wipe his body.
之后，父亲情况愈发严重，连食物都无法下咽。
Since then, his father has become so serious that he has been unable to swallow his food.
母亲就把药碾磨成粉，放在勺子里，往父亲的胃里灌。
His mother ground the medicine into powder, put it in a spoon, and poured it into his stomach.
她们担心父亲晕厥后窒息，两个人就24小时换着值班，每半个小时去拍拍父亲，看他是否安好。
Fearing that their father would suffocate after he fainted, the two men changed duty 24 hours a day and patted their father every half an hour to see if he was all right.
2月7日，父亲情况进一步恶化，晕了过去。
On 7 February, the father's condition deteriorated further and he fainted.
她和母亲不断地给街道、市政热线、社区打电话，填各种网站提供的求助表格，但就是没床位。
She and her mother kept calling streets, municipal hotlines, communities, filling out forms for help from various websites, but there were no beds.
最终，她们再次打了120。
Eventually, they hit 120 again.
上次打的时候，120说，前面还有400人排床位，要等一下。
The last time I called, 120 said there were 400 beds ahead. Wait a minute.
李小熊说，人都要晕过去了。
'People are going to faint, 'says Mr. Li.
120说，你再等两个小时。
120 says you'll have to wait two hours.
她心急如焚，真的等不了了。
She was so anxious that she really couldn't wait.
120说，真的没办法，你看看他有没有呼吸。
120 said, really no way, you see if he is breathing.
她被气哭了，却也毫无办法。
She cried in anger, but there was nothing she could do.
她知道，当时很多人都在等病床。
She knew that many people were waiting for beds.
这次，120告知，前面还有200个床位，你们愿意等吗？救护车终于来了。
This time, 120 told me that there are still 200 beds ahead. Would you like to wait? The ambulance finally arrived.
但表示只能把病人送到医院门口，因为没有转诊单医院不会接收，病人也没有地方待，需要自行决定是否还送往医院。
However, it was indicated that patients could only be taken to the hospital gate, as there was no single referral hospital and no room for patients to stay and it was up to them to decide whether or not to send them to hospital.
120的医护人员语气焦虑：我们不能等你们，我们还有其他病人要送。
120% of the paramedics said anxiously, We can't wait for you. We have other patients to deliver.
她和母亲不想让父亲去医院挨冻，最终选择放弃。
She and her mother didn't want their father to go to the hospital and gave up.
120的工作人员教了她们几个急救的方法后，匆匆地离开了。
After 120 people taught them a few first-aid methods, they hurried away.
走的时候，父亲仍旧昏迷不醒。
My father was still unconscious when he left.
那一刻李小熊感受到了从来没有过的绝望——目睹着亲人一点一点死去而自己无能无力的绝望。
At that moment, Li Xiong felt a sense of hopelessness that he had never experienced before - the despair of seeing a loved one die little by little and be powerless.
她一直都努力、乐观、积极地面对生活，从不介意对人抱有最大的善意，并尽全力面对和解决每个问题，但此刻她意识到自己的无力与渺小——“不管你平时多厉害，在生死面前你什么都干不了。
She had always faced life hard, optimistically, positively, never mind the best of intentions towards others, and tried her best to face and solve every problem, but now she realized her powerlessness and littleness - "No matter how bad you are, you can do nothing for life or death.
”她低落到了极点，忍不住写了一条朋友圈哭诉生活丢给她的这一切。
She sank to the point where she could not help writing a tearful account of what life had left her.
但不到一分钟，她又把朋友圈删除了。
But in less than a minute, she erased her circle of friends.
“你都知道绝望是怎么样的感受了，就不想让别人也有这样的感受了。
"You know what hopelessness feels like, and you don't want anyone else to feel it.
”李小熊说。
"said Li Xiaoxiong.
车队志愿者们运送的饭菜瞬间涌来的善意第二天，她还是发了一个朋友圈，想记录一下生活，“帮了那么多人，却没办法帮助自己的家庭”，没想到上百条微信涌来，全是对她的关心。
The next day, she sent out a circle of friends to take a look at life, "Help so many people, but there is no way to help their families," unexpectedly hundreds of micro-letters, all for her care.
微信上曾坐过志愿者车的一位医生问她：“你在哪里？我们这里还有一些药，我给你送过去。
A doctor who had been in a volunteer car asked, "Where are you? We have some medicine here and I'll take it to you.
”住在附近的护士告诉她，她给她留了一瓶消毒水。
The nurse who lived nearby told her she had left her a bottle of disinfectant.
还有些医生在微信上帮她“云看病”，“现在有什么症状？你觉得怎么样？把拍的片子来给我分析一下？”她对接过的面包店老板，直接把面包送到了她的家。
Some doctors help her "see a doctor in the clouds" on microletters. "What do you think of the symptoms now? Bring the film to me for analysis?" She took the bakery owner and delivered it directly to her home.
她在朋友圈里提到好久没吃肉，很多朋友要把自己家的腊肠、腊肉送到她家来。
She mentioned in her circle of friends that she had not eaten meat for a long time. Many of her friends wanted to bring their sausages and bacon to her house.
她说，别来我们小区，我们这栋楼很多人感染。
'Don't come to our neighborhood, 'she said.' Many people in our building are infected.
朋友说，没关系，我们就要给你送，或者我们就放在门口。
The friend says, Never mind, we'll send it to you, or we'll just leave it at the door.
车队的朋友要上门给她做饭，“家里都病了，肯定没人做饭，没有营养怎么养病？”她有个几年没见的朋友住在武汉徐东片区，离她家“十万八千里”，从朋友圈得知她在做爱心车队，又知道她被感染后，要骑自行车来给她送药。
"The team of friends to cook for her," the home is sick, no one cooking, no nutrition how to recover from illness? "She has a few years to see friends living in Xudong District, Wuhan, her" 10000-mile "from her family, learned from friends that she was doing love, and know she was infected, to ride bicycles to bring her medicine.
2月13日，一个平时没什么联系的人，骑着电动车去给她买了好几百块钱的药，买完药后，电瓶车没电，那人就在风中，推着电瓶车一点点走回了家。
On February 13, a person who usually has no contact, riding an electric car to buy her hundreds of dollars of medicine, after the purchase, the battery car no electricity, the man in the wind, pushing the battery back home.
她本没有期待这些，她知道疫情结束后，“很多人就会把我删了”。
She didn't expect that. She knew that after the outbreak, "a lot of people would have deleted me."
但每个收到善意的瞬间，她觉得每天回复的那几千条讯息都有了意义，“很暖心，觉得一切都值得了，如果下一次还有这个事情，我明知道会被感染，还是会继续做。
But for every moment of kindness she feels that the thousands of messages she responds to each day have meaning, "Warm, feeling like it's worth it, and if there's one more time, I know I'll get infected or I'll keep doing it.
”男友在李小熊车子上留下的“告白”，疫情期间他们很难见面并不想做“英雄”如果没有这场肺炎，李小熊在这个春节有些必须要做的事情：与父母团圆，和男友自驾游，逛迪斯尼乐园，去咸宁坐船看钟乳石、泡温泉，并等待男友的求婚。
If it hadn't been for the pneumonia, Li would have had to do something: reunite with her parents, drive with her boyfriend, visit Disneyland, visit Xianning to see stalactites, bathe in hot springs and wait for her boyfriend's proposal.
和许多女孩一样，李小熊会很在意年龄这件事。
Like many girls, Li will be concerned about his age.
询问年龄时，她说，我90年的。
Asked about my age, she said, I was 90 years old.
“哦，今年30岁了。
"" Oh, I'm 30 years old.
”她赶紧纠正：“还没有满啊，我29岁”。
"She quickly corrected herself:" It's not full yet, I'm 29.
她爱美，并因此做了医疗美容医师。
She loved beauty and became a medical cosmetic surgeon as a result.
她在武汉的一家医美工作室上班，忙的时候一天有五六个客人，闲的时候可能一个都没有。
She works in a medical studio in Wuhan, busy with five or six guests a day, and may not have a spare time.
春节前，她投资的美容整形医院在长沙开业，她成了一名小股东。
Before the Spring Festival, the cosmetic surgery hospital she invested in opened in Changsha and she became a minority shareholder.
她的副业是游戏主播，在游戏王者荣耀中她是“荣耀王者”的段位——游戏中封顶的等级。
Her sideline is the game anchor, and in the glory of the Kings she is the "King of Glory" segment - the level at which the game is capped.
空余时间，她喜欢听书，还买了某音频分享平台的会员，不过有时候“听着听着就会睡着”。
In her spare time, she likes listening to books and buying a member of an audio-sharing platform, but sometimes she "listens and falls asleep."
在微信群里抓到一个伪装成医院对接人的骗子后，她也会用脏话破口大骂，“XX，那个X人！”在男友秦乐眼里，女朋友李小熊有“很女强人”的一面，但更多的时候，“可萌可呆”。
After catching a swindler masquerading as a hospital docking person in a micro-letter group, she would also swear, "XX, the X-Man!" In the eyes of her boyfriend Qin Le, his girlfriend, Li Xiaoxiong, had a "very strong woman" side, but more often she could "backslide."
他记得带李小熊去坐东湖磨山的缆车，她因为恐高吓哭，不敢坐在缆车厢里的板凳上，瘫在地上抱着他的腿，求他返程的时候带她走下山。
He remembered taking Li Xiong to a cable car at the Mill Hill in the East Lake. She did not dare to sit on the bench in the cable car for fear of crying.
当时外面风呼呼地刮着，缆车摇摇晃晃。
The wind was blowing outside and the cable car was rickety.
从窗户往下看，人和蚂蚁一样大。
Looking down from the window, the man is as big as the ant.
在他心里，李小熊是个倔强的女孩。
In his heart, Li Xiong is a stubborn girl.
一开始知道她在做志愿车队时，他很担心，恨不得天天和她吵架，让她停下手头的工作。
At first he knew she was in a volunteer convoy, and he was worried and would have quarreled with her every day to stop her work.
“为什么自己病了还要去帮助别人呢？天天在外面东奔西跑。
Why do you have to help others when you are ill? Run around the world every day.
” 秦乐说。
"said Qin Le.
但最终，他还是败给了她的倔，“叫她不去还是要去，那就没有办法了”。
But in the end, he lost to her stubborn, "if she does not go or go, then there is no way."
李小熊的车队缺车，他知道“现在这个关头借车挺不懂事的”，但为了女友，还是好说歹说找朋友借了一台车。
Li's motorcade was short of cars and he knew "it's not sensible to borrow a car at this juncture," but he borrowed a car from a friend for his girlfriend's sake.
在知道李小熊得病后，他“很绝望”。
After learning that Li Xiong was ill, he was "desperate."
虽然也在武汉，但因为交通封闭两人无法见面，他只能每天督促她按时吃药，补充睡眠，“听她倾诉，给她精神上的支持与希望。
Although also in Wuhan, because of the traffic closure, the two could not meet, he can only urge her to take medicine on a regular basis, to supplement sleep, "listen to her, give her moral support and hope.
”母亲林桂花觉得，如果女儿想保护世界，那她只能保护女儿。
"My mother, Osmanthus Lin, said she could only protect her daughter if she wanted to protect the world.
她在李小熊从长沙回来前就开始畏寒、恶心、头晕无力，躺在床上动弹不得，她不想女儿担心，骗她说，自己只是得了普通的感冒。
She began to cringe, nausea and dizziness before Li came back from Changsha, and lay in bed unable to move. She did not want her daughter to worry, and lied to her that she had only a common cold.
李小熊回来后，便把自己关在房间里忙工作，林桂花庆幸女儿没时间管她。
When Li Xiong came back, he shut himself up in his room to work busily. Guilin was glad her daughter had no time to take care of her.
在自己的屋里，林桂花在床躺着，忍受着“全身上下说不出来的疼”，偷偷给120打电话。
In his own room, Lin osmanthus lay in bed, enduring "unspeakable pain" and secretly telephoned 120.
她告诉120自己快不行了，120说，先预约一下。
She told 120 she was going to die soon, 120 said. Make an appointment.
她四处托朋友要核酸检验的资格，朋友说，现在哪里轮得到你。
She asked her friends around for nucleic acid test qualifications, the friend said, now where your turn.
虽然躺在床上不能动，她却能听到隔壁房间里，女儿的手机从早响到晚。
Though unable to move while lying in bed, she could hear her daughter's cell phone in the adjoining room from dawn to dusk.
模模糊糊的声音中，“物资”、“接送”、“医护人员”是高频词，她猜出来女儿在做志愿活动。
Ambiguous voice, "material", "transport", "medical personnel" is the high frequency word, she guessed that her daughter is doing voluntary activities.
她心里觉得骄傲，“她从小到大就一直是个很有爱心很善良的女孩”；但更多的时候，她满是担心，连着几个半夜，她隔着墙听着女儿通宵接电话。
"She grew up to be a very loving and kind-hearted girl," she says. "But more often than not, she worries and watches her daughter answer the phone through the wall all night long.
饭点的时候，她打电话叫女儿出来吃饭，但李小熊接了所有人的电话，唯独挂了她的。
At mealtime, she called her daughter out for dinner, but Li answered all the calls except hers.
林桂花在自己的房间里心疼到淌泪，又舍不得对女儿说一句重话。
Lin osmanthus in his room in the heart to tear, but also reluctant to say a word to her daughter.
她听着女儿打电话，觉得“自己随时走了女儿都不知道”，但想着李小熊，她又有了活下去的动力。
She listened to her daughter on the phone, feel "he left at any time daughter do not know", but thinking about Li Xiong, she has the motivation to live.
林桂花只听到李小熊在房间里昼夜打电话，她不知道的是，她的女儿也在和她一样，躺在自己房间的床上，忍受着全身上下说不出的疼。
What Lin did not know was that her daughter was lying on her bed in her own room, enduring indescribable pain.
2月2日，李小熊发现父亲出现新冠肺炎的症状，带着父母一起去医院做了CT检查和核酸检验。
On February 2, Li Xiong discovered his father had symptoms of pneumonia, and took his parents to the hospital for CT and nucleic acid tests.
片子显示母亲的双肺感染，几近白肺。
The film showed a mother's two-lung infection, almost white lung.
那一刻，她无比内疚，她貌似在努力照顾所有人，却忽视了身边人。
At that moment, she was very guilty, she seems to be trying to take care of everyone, but ignored the people around her.
而直到现在，她都没有告诉母亲自己曾经病到“快死了”，然后又好了起来。
Until now, she had not told her mother that she was "dying" and was getting well again.
张小艳说，志愿者团队中像李小熊这样“把伤痛放在心里”的人不止一个。
Zhang said more than one volunteer team, like Li Xiaoxiang, "put their pain in their hearts."
有位志愿者运送物资时，她发现对方脸色不对劲。
When a volunteer was delivering supplies, she noticed that something was wrong.
她问他，怎么了？他说，家里人去世了，赶紧别过头擦眼泪，然后很快回过头说，“需要的时候给我留言”。
She asked him, What's the matter? He said, when his family died, don't overdo your tears, and then quickly go back and say, "Leave me a message when you need it."
她为这个志愿者司机伤心了好久。
She grieved for the volunteer driver for a long time.
采访中，我问李小熊，因为你们，很多人说武汉是英雄城市，你怎么看？“再怎么英雄，每个人也是血肉之躯，也是有父母、有小孩、有老人的，如果可以好好的活着，谁愿意去做这个英雄？谁想跟人生离死别？谁想经历这种事情？夸我们还不如给我们多捐一点口罩、防护服，多给我们点医疗资源。
In the interview, I asked Li Xiong, because you, a lot of people said Wuhan is a hero city, how do you think? "How about the hero, parents, children, elderly, if you can live well, who would like to be the hero? Who wants to live? Who wants to experience this kind of thing? We might as well give us more masks, more protective clothing, more medical resources.
”现在，李小熊的父亲还在同济医院的重症病房治疗，母亲在酒店隔离，她自己刚做完新一轮的核酸检验，正在等待最终结果。
Now, while Li's father is in the intensive care unit of Tongji Hospital and his mother is in quarantine at the hotel, she has just finished a new round of nucleic acid tests and is awaiting final results.
（文中张晨、张顺顺、秦乐为化名）【反侵权公告】本文由北京青年报与腾讯新闻联合出品，未经授权，不得转载。
This article is jointly produced by Beijing Youth Daily and Tencent News. It is not allowed to be reproduced without authorization.
死亡病例过千，尚无一例病理解剖|深度对话送别李文亮医生：愿天堂没有病毒|深度报道鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 |深度报道。
Not a single case of death has occurred. Dr. Lim Wenliang: May heaven be free of virus & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
29岁武汉女孩封城后的26天：她并不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住｜深度人物。
Twenty-nine-year-old Wuhan girl, 26 days after she closed the city, didn't want to be a hero, just not to be trapped by despair.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "北青深一度";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
var msg_title = "29岁武汉女孩封城后的26天：她并不想成为英雄，只是想不被绝望困住｜深度人物";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; 26 days after Wuhan Girl was shut down, 29: She didn't want to be a hero, just not hopeless at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“不想再让别人有那样绝望的感受了”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '“着急”的病理专家刘良：死亡病例过千，尚无一例病理解剖，早一点做可以多救几个人 | 深度对话',。
Liu Liang, pathologist at "Anxious": There were more than a thousand deaths, and no pathologic autopsy has been performed. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '送别李文亮医生：愿天堂不再有病毒 | 深度报道',。
Dr. Li Wenliang: May heaven never again have AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '鄂A牌车30小时归乡记 | 深度报道',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '北青深一度',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="北青深一度";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at once.
