​普通人，照亮普通人。
The ordinary citizen illuminates the common man.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
克莱·舍基写过一本书，名叫《未来是湿的》，他在书中提到，「在互联网和云计算的作用下，人与人之间恢复了部落社会才有的湿乎乎的关系，充满人情、关注意义、回到现象、重现具体。
In his book The Future Is Wet, Klein Shekki notes that "the Internet and cloud computing have revived the moist relationships that make up tribal societies, filled with humanity, concern, return, and specificity.
」在疫情发生的当下，舍基的判断成了现实。
At the time of the outbreak, Sheki's judgment became a reality.
当社会关系被路口、房门、车站阻断开来，个体成了孤独的原子。
When social relations are blocked by junctions, doors, and stations, individuals become isolated atoms.
线上的交往关系，为我们展开了互相支撑的可能性。
Online relationships open up possibilities for us to support each other.
不具名的普通人也可以通过网络，触达另一个人的内心，告诉对方，我们可以是彼此的安全依靠，等到下一个春天。
Unnamed ordinary people can also through the network, touch the heart of another person, tell each other that we can be mutually safe to rely on, until the next spring.
疫情如同一场黑风暴，席卷了数以万计的普通人。
The epidemic is like a black storm that has swept through tens of thousands of ordinary people.
在这冰冷残酷之外，还有同样普通的人在努力地钻木生火，用温暖的火光烘热这片土地。
On top of this cold cruelty, equally ordinary people were trying to drill wood to make a fire and warm the land with warm fire.
这里讲述的是他们的故事。
This is their story.
文｜林念编辑｜槐杨1早晨7点，窗外还是一片灰色，靓靓就从床上爬了起来，按着顺序，给近10个人发去消息——早上好，该起床啦。
yeg locust yea Yang, editor of yeg, locust, rose from her window at seven o'clock in the morning, and her beauty rose from her bed and sent a message to nearly ten people in sequence - good morning, it's time to get up.
赴国外读研前的间隔年，靓靓在网上找了这份工作，在「作死杂货铺」任兼职监督员。
Before going abroad to graduate school, Liang Liang found this job on the Internet, working as a part-time supervisor in a "dead grocer."
这家淘宝网店在2015年开张，只卖一个商品：「坚持」。
The Taobao store, which opened in 2015, sells only one product: "Hang in there."
顾客下单后，给监督员发去自己制定好的计划，监督员则会要求顾客提交图片或视频来「打卡」，监督他们是不是按照计划去行动。
After ordering, the supervisor sends the supervisor his or her own plan. The supervisor then asks the customer to submit a picture or video to "punch the card" to see if they are following the plan.
新冠肺炎爆发以来，几乎所有人都被锁在家中，「作死杂货铺」的订单量涨了一倍。
Since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, almost everyone has been locked in, and orders for "groceries" have doubled.
找到这家店的人身份各异。
The people who found the shop were of different identities.
有白天巡逻、晚上备战雅思的机关工作人员，有在家录网课的老师，还有抖音上拍摄视频的博主。
There are office workers who patrol during the day and prepare for the IELTS at night, teachers in home video recorders and bloggers who shoot videos on the dithering sound.
看来，居家时期，大家都需要有人监督、鼓励，打败拖延症。
It seems that at home, we all need someone to supervise, encourage, and defeat procrastination.
还有一位作家找到靓靓，希望她能监督自己写作，每写完500字，靓靓就会和他在微信上互相道贺。
Another writer found beauty, hoping that she would supervise her writing, and that every time she finished writing 500 words, she would congratulate him on her beautiful letter.
下单的人中，学生最多，尤其是高三生。
Students are the most likely to place orders, especially the third year of high school.
缺了学校里集体奋发的氛围，他们需要有人唤醒自律。
Lacking the atmosphere of collective effort in school, they need someone to awaken self-discipline.
一位高三女孩在B站开了个直播间，每隔一段时间，靓靓就进入直播间观察她。
A three-year-old girl in B station opened a direct studio, every few days, the beautiful into the studio to observe her.
她安静地坐在书桌前，桌上放着一个计时器，靓靓可以通过计时器判断她是否达到了约定好的时长。
She sat quietly at her desk, with a timer on it that would tell if she had reached the agreed length of time.
摄像头照见女孩在课桌前做作业的侧面，看不见脸，手臂偶尔摆动。
Camera saw the girl in front of the desk to do homework side, invisible face, arm occasionally swing.
她将保持这个姿势，持续12个小时。
She will remain in this position for 12 hours.
「这些孩子真的很不容易。
"These children are really not easy.
」靓靓说，备考压力已经喘不过气，现在还要加上疫情变化造成的焦虑、在家中与父母产生的摩擦。
"The stress of preparing for the exam is overwhelming, plus the anxiety caused by the change in the epidemic and the friction with parents at home," she said.
每当监督结束，靓靓约定的工作已经完成，可是她忍不住想要安抚和鼓励他们。
She could not help but try to calm and encourage them when the supervision was over and the promised work was done.
「今天的状态怎么样？」「会觉得吃力吗？」她经常问。
"How's it going today?" "Will it be hard?" she often asks.
三言两语，她还会分享自己以前备战雅思考试的经验，或者变着方式鼓励他们坚持下去，「大家都在努力，你怎么可以偷懒去当咸鱼呢？」她的顾客中有位男孩，父母离异，他独自住在租来的房子里，准备专升本考试，每天攻读14个小时，书本温习完，他会跟靓靓聊天，聊起父母离婚时的细节，还有未来的梦想。
In a few words, she would share her previous experience in preparing for IELTS or somehow encourage them to persevere, "How could you be lazy and be a salty fish?" One of her clients, a boy whose parents had divorced, lived alone in a rented house preparing for the exam, reading 14 hours a day, reading books, chatting with her parents about the details of their divorce and their future dreams.
他说，觉得高数最难，靓靓给他发去消息，「种一棵树，最好的时间是10年前，其次就是现在。
He said he found the high numbers the hardest, sending him the message, "The best time to plant a tree is 10 years ago, then now."
」「这个时候监督员要多给一些鼓励和肯定。
"" At this point the supervisor needs to give more encouragement and recognition.
」靓靓说。
"said the pretty woman.
「有时候，我就陪他消化完，陪伴也很重要。
"Sometimes, I accompany him to digest, the company is also very important.
」疫情令人失去了太多面对面的交流机会，漫长的隔离中，人会有孤岛一般的感觉，但还有很多像靓靓这样的人，在线上发起行动，正像在孤岛间奋力划船，开始人与人之间的互相救援。
The epidemic has deprived people of so many face-to-face opportunities for communication. In the long years of isolation, people feel like islands, but there are others like Liang Liang who act on the line, just like rowing among isolated islands and helping each other.
2这个2月的某个夜晚，9点钟，住在深圳的玖妹打车回家，看见两旁住宅楼里的灯光明明灭灭，街上却空空荡荡，没有了往日的热闹。
One February night at 9: 00 pm, Nine Girls living in Shenzhen took a taxi to her home and saw the lights in the two apartment buildings extinguishing.
路边的LED显示屏上打着振奋人心的标语「众志成城，一起抗疫！」她在后座上不停流泪。
On the LED display screen beside the road, she was crying in the back seat with the uplifting slogan, "Together we fight the plague!"
2012年开始，玖妹因为售卖晚安短信而为人熟知。
Beginning in 2012, the American Beauty is known for selling goodnight text messages.
在她的淘宝店里，一条晚安短信售价1元，下单后，临睡前，你可以得到一条向你道「晚安」的信息。
At her Taobao store, a goodnight text message costs $1 and before you go to bed, you get a "Goodnight" message.
显然，玖妹是个浪漫的人。
Apparently, the American Beauty is a romantic person.
她曾经在广州的一个小岛上开了一家咖啡店，顾客可以用自己的故事换取半杯咖啡。
She once opened a coffee shop on an island in Guangzhou where customers could trade their stories for half a cup of coffee.
后来小店关了，她回到深圳，做起了体制内的工作，日子本来是安稳的，但她没有想到，这场疫情中，深圳成了广东省确诊病例数最多的城市。
After the store closed, she went back to Shenzhen to do the work in the system, the life was stable, but she did not think of the epidemic, Shenzhen has become Guangdong Province, the most confirmed cases of the city.
她的家人多数在医疗和交通系统内工作，都守在一线，她担心，也有点恐惧。
Her family, mostly working in the medical and transportation systems, were on the frontlines, and she was worried and a little scared.
那几晚，玖妹瘫坐在床上，盯着手机屏幕，打不出一个字。
For a few nights, he sat in bed, staring at the screen, unable to type a word.
晚安短信间断了好几天，在巨大的灾难面前，她想不出什么样的话语可以应对。
Good-night text messages had been interrupted for days, and she could think of no words to deal with in the face of great disaster.
但订单在增加。
But orders are on the rise.
1月24日，一位顾客下单了两周的晚安短信送给自己在武汉的朋友，在订单的备注里，她告诉玖妹，希望武汉被隔离的朋友收到短信后能知道，自己不是一个人。
January 24, a customer ordered a two-week good night text message to his friends in Wuhan, in the notes to the order, she told her sister, hope Wuhan isolated friends received text messages, can know that they are not a person.
另一位顾客一口气下了3个订单，分别送给3个朋友，「希望他们能在疫情中照顾好自己，一起坚持下去，还要提醒他们戴口罩」。
Another customer placed three orders in one sitting, each for three friends. "I hope they can take care of themselves in the epidemic, stick to it and remind them to wear masks."
因为这些订单，玖妹恢复了过来，有了安慰他人的气力。
As a result of these orders, for the American Beauty came back, has the strength to comfort others.
在给武汉朋友发去的短信中，她分享生活中的趣事，比如看到月色很美，她会在短信里提醒另一端的人，「你抬头看一下月亮吧」。
In a text message to her Wuhan friend, she shared funny stories from her life, such as seeing a beautiful moon and telling people at the other end in a text message, "Look up at the moon."
有时候她收到回应，「对啊，月亮好美」。
Sometimes she gets the answer, "Yeah, the moon is beautiful."
有人给她发来照片，照片里，一圈光环围绕着圆月，「送你一个飞碟。
Someone sent her a picture of a ring around the full moon, "Give you a flying saucer."
」6岁的儿子看到玖妹在床上发短信，问，「妈妈，你为什么给他们发短信？」「如果没有收到这条短信，他们会睡不着。
The six-year-old son saw his sister texting in bed and asked, "Mommy, why do you text to them?" "If they don't receive this note, they will not sleep.
」玖妹说。
"For her beauty.
在疫情带来的紧张和焦虑中，玖妹希望能让多一个人安然入睡。
In the tension and anxiety brought about by the epidemic, the American Beauty hope to let one more person sleep peacefully.
「晚安」，虽然已经被用得太多，在此时还是像一个真实的、切身的祝愿。
"Good night," although already used too much, is like a real, personal wish at this time.
睡得安然，第二天才有继续面对的精神与力气。
Sleep peacefully, the next day to continue to face the spirit and strength.
在给予他人祝福的过程中，玖妹觉得自己心中由疫情带来的担忧也在缓缓消化。
In the process of giving blessings to others, the American Beauty in her heart by the epidemic brought about by the worries are slowly digesting.
借由一条简单的短信，她走到每一个具体可感的人面前，给予他们温柔的、抚慰的力量。
Through a simple text message, she walks up to everyone who feels it and gives them a gentle, soothing power.
「我不是心理学专业的，只能做到陪伴和倾听。
"I'm not a psychology major. I just have to be there and listen.
在苦难中，人需要安慰。
A man needs comfort in his affliction.
『晚安』这两个字不一定能改变什么，但我有这个信心，会过去的。
"Good night" doesn't necessarily change anything, but I have the confidence that it will pass.
最近我也在读心理方面的书，希望自己能够更专业地去开导他们。
I recently read a book on psychology, hoping I could teach them more professionally.
再提升一点点，也许在这场疫情中我就可以做得再多一点点。
A little more, maybe I can do a little more in this epidemic.
」玖妹说。
"For her beauty.
3更为专业的心理援助正在网络中同时进行。
More specialized psychological assistance is being provided simultaneously in the network.
除夕以来，心理咨询师黄晶没有休息过。
Huang Jing, a psychologist, has not had a rest since New Year's Eve.
她回到东北老家，闷头在房间里工作。
She went back to her hometown in the northeast and worked sullenly in her room.
电脑烧坏了一台，每天只顾得上吃一餐饭。
The computer burned down one meal a day.
她是天猫店「壹点灵」的运营负责人，在疫情以前，这家店为顾客提供付费心理咨询。
She was in charge of the operation of "One Ling," a store that provided paid counseling for customers before the outbreak.
除夕那天，「壹点灵」开通了免费的心理援助，分3批招募了500名心理咨询师志愿者。
On New Year's Eve, One Ling opened free psychological assistance and recruited 500 volunteer psychologists in three batches.
和其他心理援助热线不同，「壹点灵」没有电话号码，只设置了二维码入口。
Unlike other psychological assistance hotlines, "One Ling" does not have a telephone number, only a two-dimensional access point.
在正式进入咨询以前，咨询者要对自己的身份进行归类。
Before entering a formal consultation, the consultant categorizes his or her identity.
红色是一线医护人员与确诊病患，橙色是警方人员和疑似病例，蓝色是其他存在焦虑、睡眠障碍的普通人群。
Red is the first line of care with confirmed patients, orange is the police personnel and suspected cases, blue is other anxiety, sleep disorder in the general population.
这是黄晶和其他咨询师连夜赶制出来的特别通路，订单会将顾客自动划拨到对应颜色的咨询师团队，进行一对一咨询。
It's a special way for Huang and other consultants to churn out overnight orders that automatically transfer customers to a team of color-matching consultants for one-on-one consultations.
针对只想宣泄情绪的来者，他们设置了「一键倾诉」入口。
For those who just want to vent their emotions, they set up a "one-button talk" portal.
一通电话通常持续30到50分钟，黄晶必须抓紧时间，修补咨询者的心理创伤。
A call usually lasts between 30 and 50 minutes, and Huang must take the time to repair the counselor's trauma.
红、橙、蓝的比例是1：1：8，大部分人咨询，是因为自己陷入了疫情带来的焦虑。
The ratio of red to orange to blue was 1: 1: 8, and most people consulted because they were caught up in the anxiety caused by the epidemic.
「现在的疫情对于个人来讲，焦虑可能也就是6、7分，但为什么我们总感觉到10分的焦虑？因为存在信息超载，每天都在刷新闻，就会把焦虑放大了。
"Anxiety can be as high as 6 or 7 points for an individual, but why do we always feel 10 points of anxiety? It is magnified by the overload of information and the daily brushing of news.
」一个武汉女孩下了订单后，黄晶给她回拨了电话。
"When an Wuhan girl placed an order, Huang Jinggave her a call back.
她和母亲同时感染了新冠肺炎，属于轻症，没有床位。
She and her mother both contracted pneumonia, a mild, no bed.
为了不让父亲感染，母女俩从家里搬了出来，住进宾馆。
To keep her father from getting infected, the mother and daughter moved out of the house and stayed in the hotel.
在电话里，女孩平静地谈论自己和母亲的困境，黄晶知道，愈冷静，电话那头的人愈是绝望。
On the phone, the girl calmly talked about her plight and that of her mother. Huang knew that the calmer she was, the more desperate the caller.
在社区、医院这些社会资源都被否定后，黄晶转换了方向，调整女孩堪忧的心理状态。
In the community, the hospital these social resources are denied, Huang Jing changed direction, adjust the girl worried psychological state.
「不能让她在这样的情绪里越陷越深，我们要调动她和母亲求生的可能。
"We cannot allow her to sink deeper and deeper into such emotions, and we need to motivate her and her mother to survive.
」「我们是强者，只不过是病了。
"We are strong; we are merely ill.
」黄晶提醒她，「只不过是周遭的环境让你觉得自己是一个弱者，失去了希望。
"It's just the circumstances around you that make you feel weak and hopeless," Huang reminds her.
」黄晶和女孩聊起了女孩母亲的往事，如何从农村到城市里打拼买房，结婚成家。
Huang talked to the girl about her mother, how she bought a house from the countryside to the city, and got married and started a family.
「其实你妈妈是有能量的，她很坚强。
"Your mother has energy. She's strong.
你要给她力量，多和她聊聊未来的事，你们坚持下来。
You have to give her strength, talk to her about the future, and you hang in there.
」一位民警也下了单。
"A civilian police officer also gave the order.
在武汉边界的一个交通枢纽，他负责检查过往车辆，每当车窗玻璃摇下，他都很紧张，不敢用力呼吸。
At a traffic hub on the Wuhan border, he checks passing vehicles and is too nervous to breathe when the window panes roll down.
他的妻子因为扁桃体炎发烧了，4个月的孩子需要照顾，但他也不敢抱孩子，怕把外界带来的病毒传染给孩子。
His wife had a fever from tonsillitis and her four-month-old child needed to be taken care of, but he did not dare to hold the baby for fear of transmitting the virus from the outside world.
他时常吃不上饭，每时每刻都在焦虑之中。
He was always deprived of food and always anxious.
「真的是辛苦你了，我们在外围的这些咨询师们，都非常感谢你。
"It's really hard on you, and all of our consultants on the periphery are very grateful to you.
」黄晶给他打了电话说。
"Huang Jing called him and said.
话音刚落，那头就传来粗重的哭声，绷着的弦突然有了松动。
As soon as the words fell, a heavy cry came from the other end, and suddenly the strings began to loosen.
黄晶告诉他，妻子检查发现是扁桃体炎，没有确诊，说明你也很有可能没有被感染；你也可以在线上找医生问诊，办法还是很多的。
Huang told him that his wife's examination revealed tonsillitis, and that there was no diagnosis of tonsillitis, indicating a high probability that you were not infected.
「他需要肯定，需要被人看到。
"He needs confirmation, he needs to be seen.
我们只是告诉他一个简单的事实，帮助他看到焦虑发作时忽略的细节。
We're just telling him a simple fact that helps him see the details he ignores when he's having an anxiety attack.
」黄晶的心理咨询还在继续。
Huang Jing's counseling continues.
最初，他们只开通了面向湖北的免费咨询，后来，这一项目面向全国展开，迄今共接到了超过14000个咨询者的求助。
Initially, they offered free consultation to Hubei, but since then the program has been carried out nationwide and has so far received more than 14,000 requests for help.
在黄晶看来，这场疫情的心理援助工作现在才迈出了第一步。
In Huang's view, the epidemic's psychological aid work is only now taking its first steps.
疫情的影响是深远的，针对不同程度的创伤进行心理重建，将是疫情过后心理咨询师要做的事。
The impact of the epidemic is far-reaching, according to different degrees of trauma psychological reconstruction, will be the post-epidemic counselors to do.
在激励、安抚之后，那些无法淌过这条冰河的人，需要黄晶等心理咨询师加以专业的疏导。
After stimulation, pacification, those who can't cross the glacier need professional guidance from Huang Jing and other counselors.
灾难面前，有人耻于表达情绪，有人抗拒外人的介入，心理咨询师们能够以合理、适当的方式让他们最大程度地敞开自我，治愈伤痛。
In the face of disaster, some people are ashamed to express their feelings, others resist the intervention of outsiders, counselors can let them in a reasonable and appropriate way to maximize their self-open, heal wounds.
4412岁男孩小伟对这个春节期待已久，但疫情来临，把他所有的游玩计划都搅黄了。
Xiaowei, a 4412-year-old boy, had been waiting for the Spring Festival, but all his plans for the trip were ruined by the outbreak.
待在家里，防盗网把窗外的世界分割成小块，他觉得一切都那么无聊，而爸妈总是对他的一举一动都加以审视，而后就是批评。
Stay at home, break up the world outside the window, he felt that everything is so boring, and his parents always look at his every move, then criticize.
趁父母不注意，他划动手机，在淘宝搜索一种早已被禁售的商品，反复问询客服是否还有其他渠道可以购买到。
While his parents weren't looking, he paddled his cell phone and rummaged through a long-banned product, repeatedly asking if there were other channels available to him.
那个早上的9点钟，武纲接到了网店客服的电话。
At 9 o'clock that morning, Wu Gang received a call from the customer service.
每次接到这样的电话，武纲都很紧张。
Every time I get a call like this, Wugang is very nervous.
他知道，每通电话都意味着他要抓紧时间，去挽救一条生命。
He knew that every call meant he had to hurry to save a life.
武纲是阿里安全、阿里健康和客服团队共同推出的「守护生命」项目中的一员，他日常的任务是及时发现和劝阻那些有自杀倾向、准备购买商品用于轻生的人。
The program is part of the 'Guardian Life' program, a joint effort by the Ali Safety, Ali Health and Customer Service team, whose daily mission is to identify and discourage suicide-prone individuals who are prepared to buy goods for light use.
沟通安抚、联系亲友、警方协作……这是一套基于人工智能技术和各方协同合作的救助机制。
Communication and conciliation, contact relatives and friends, police cooperation... This is a set of artificial intelligence-based technology and cooperation between the various rescue mechanisms.
武纲说，以往，春节假期少有人会在网购中表露出自杀的倾向，但在疫情期间，人们的心理健康问题更值得关注。
Wu Gang said that in the past, fewer people in the Spring Festival will show their suicidal tendencies, but during the epidemic, people's mental health problems are more worthy of attention.
预警往往在凌晨出现，这些买家会问客服一些看似莫名其妙的问题，稍一盘问，他们内心中的脆弱便会暴露在对话框中。
Early warnings often come in the early hours of the morning, and buyers will ask customers seemingly inexplicable questions, and if questioned, their inner vulnerability will be revealed in the dialog.
小伟的案例就是其一。
Xiao Wei's case is one of them.
武纲在第一时间接到了商家客服发来的预警。
Wu Gang in the first time received the merchant customer service from the early warning.
团队研判后立刻联系了河南警方。
The team immediately contacted Henan police after the investigation.
小伟提供的地址模糊，没有具体的门牌号，只有单元，那个单元有100多户人家。
The address provided by Xiao Wei was vague and did not have a specific number, only the unit, which contained more than 100 households.
迫于疫情，警察无法挨家挨户地敲门询问。
Because of the epidemic, the police could not knock on doors.
他们联动了办公室里的同事，综合了检索来的信息，才找到了小伟的家。
They contacted the office colleagues and synthesised the information they had retrieved before finding Xiao Wei's home.
一个多小时后，警察敲开了小伟家的门，父母还一头雾水，知道详情，才感到后怕。
More than an hour later, the police knocked on the door of Xiao Wei's house. My parents were still confused and knew the details.
警方做了安抚和心理援助之后，给武纲的团队打了电话，告知小伟平安，所有人才安下心来。
The police did pacification and psychological assistance, to Wu Gang's team made a phone call, told Xiao Wei Ping, all ability to settle down.
类似的案例汇集起来，武纲从中窥见了疫情中人们的心态。
Similar cases come together and Wu Gang gets a glimpse of the people's mentality in the epidemic.
闭塞的隔离环境让每个人都心生焦躁和不安，这些危机不仅可能发生在心智不成熟的青少年身上，成人也难逃阴霾。
The isolated environment makes everyone anxious and uneasy. These crises can happen not only to immature teenagers, but also to adults.
「我在你们店买了东西，已经吃了50天，我会不会死？能不能告诉我些解救的办法？」一位买家找到一家店铺客服问，「邻居都要帮我打120了。
"I bought something in your store and ate it for 50 days. Will I die? Can you tell me something about it?" A buyer went to a shop customer and asked, "Neighbors are going to call me 120."
」「你吃了什么？能不能留个联系方式？」询问都没有得到回复。
"What did you eat? Could you please leave a contact number?" No reply was given to the inquiry.
商家转而向阿里安全发出预警求助。
Businesses turned to Ali for help with early warning.
最后警察上门后，才知道那是买家一时冲动的话语。
Finally the police came to the door, only to know that it was the buyer's impulsive words.
她端坐在家里，很不好意思：「我只是情绪不好，在家待久了很烦躁。
She sat at home, embarrassed: "I'm just in a bad mood and I'm upset after a long stay at home."
就是一时的情绪发泄，没想到你们真的上门来了。
Is a temporary emotional vent, did not expect that you really came to the door.
」不论是出于一时冲动的情绪宣泄，抑或是悲痛达到了一定量级，疫情之下，人们的心理健康同样面临压力。
Whether it is an outburst of emotion, or when grief has reached a certain level, people's mental health is also under stress.
靠订单预警的拯救是一次性的，武纲更想打捞疫情中脆弱的人心。
By the order early warning rescue is one-off, Wu Gang would like to salvage the vulnerable people in the epidemic.
曾经有位香港买家在和商家的沟通中暴露了自杀倾向，异地报警困难，电话也打不通，唯一的联系方式是淘宝账号。
Once a Hong Kong buyer in the communication with businessmen exposed suicidal tendencies, difficult to report to the police in different places, the telephone is also blocked, the only contact information is Taobao account.
武纲创建了一个独立小组跟进这个案例，同事每隔几个小时询问一次他的状况，直到他回应：「放心，我现在是安全的。
Wu Gang created an independent team to follow up on the case, and colleagues asked him about his condition every few hours until he responded, "Don't worry, I'm safe now.
」「当一个人得到陌生人持续的关心，他会很感动，他需要这样的关怀让他走出来。
"" When a person is constantly being cared for by a stranger, he is moved, and he needs the attention to get him out.
」武纲说，团队行动之前，商家也会对顾客的情绪做安抚。
Before a team takes action, businesses also placate customers' feelings, Wugang said.
现实中无法化开的情绪死结，陌生人往往慢慢地将其舒展开来。
In reality, the mood can not break away from the knot, strangers tend to slowly spread it out.
5武纲所在的阿里安全，是专门负责处置各种风险的部门。
Ali Security, where Vugwanan is located, is the department responsible for dealing with a variety of risks.
当疫情来临，商品管理团队全员投入到防疫用品订单暴涨几千上万倍的应对中；反诈团队在浙江全省范围内发送了超过1000万条疫情诈骗强制提醒信息；安全技术团队里三个工程师，则在被隔离期间试图用他们的专业去改造疫情防控环境，安抚人们在疫情中焦躁不安的心。
When the outbreak hit, the commodity management team was overwhelmed by thousands of times the surge in orders for epidemic prevention supplies; the anti-fraud team sent more than 10 million mandatory alerts of epidemic fraud throughout Zhejiang province; and three engineers on the security team tried to use their expertise during isolation to reform the disease-control environment and reassure people of the epidemic's restlessness.
大年初一，得知武汉封城，南歌带着妻子和两个孩子坐火车硬卧，从湖北襄阳逃离回了杭州。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, learning that Wuhan, NanGe with his wife and two children by train hard sleeper, from Xiangyang, Hubei fled back to Hangzhou.
15个小时的火车上，他几乎彻夜未眠。
He stayed up almost all night on the 15-hour train.
封闭的火车车厢颠簸晃动，乘客来来往往，相互投射怀疑、恐惧的目光。
The closed train jolted, and passengers came and went, casting suspicious, frightened glances at each other.
他只能尽可能地搂紧孩子，一直睁眼到凌晨5点，火车停站。
He could only hold the child as close as he could, and kept his eyes open until 5 a.m., when the train stopped.
火车上惶恐的一夜，让他深切体会到在公共场所提前发现、预警高危人群的重要性。
A night of panic on the train brought home to him the importance of early detection and early warning of high-risk groups in public places.
尘埃按照惯例把父亲从荆州老家接到杭州过年，一家人被隔离两周之后，老人至今还没出过楼门。
Dust traditionally carried his father from his hometown of Jingzhou to Hangzhou for the Spring Festival. The family was quarantined for two weeks.
但他发现，虽然小区已经安排众多人力来防控疫情，但细微处，还是有让狡猾的病毒逃脱的风险。
But he found that although the community has a lot of manpower to prevent and control the epidemic, but the micro, or let the cunning virus escape the risk.
「如有自动化识别工具，意义就很大。
"Automated identification tools are of great importance.
」1月29日，书芮和家人从国外度假回国，航班落地后他才知道同机有武汉籍乘客需要排查。
Shu and his family returned from a holiday abroad on Jan. 29, when the plane landed and he learned that Wuhan passengers on the plane needed to be searched.
5天后他开始反复发高烧。
Five days later he began to suffer from recurrent fever.
被120送到杭州西溪医院，做完CT又做了两次咽拭子核酸检测，最终被确诊为普通感冒，拿着两盒消炎药被送回了家。
120 to Hangzhou West Stream Hospital, done CT and did two more pharyngeal nucleic acid tests, was finally diagnosed as a common cold, with two boxes of anti-inflammatory drugs back home.
书芮曾经认为控制疫情最重要的就是在家隔离。
Suri used to believe that the most important thing in controlling the epidemic was isolation at home.
这次入院的经历让他有了一些别的想法：停止人群流动，可能无法从根本上解决问题。
The admission gave him other ideas: Stop the flow of people, which may not solve the problem at all.
「如何让人群安全的流动，或许才是疫情防控的最大意义。
"How to make people flow safely is perhaps the greatest significance of disease prevention and control.
」分别在杭州的家中隔离，三个人决定一起做点什么。
"Separated at home in Hangzhou, the three men decided to do something together.
从2月1日开始，他们和所在团队一起，只用了11天，研发出一套可以快速部署在社区、机场、火车站等场所，助力公共场所的疫情防控的系统。
Starting February 1, they and their team spent just 11 days developing a system that can be deployed rapidly to communities, airports and train stations to help prevent and control disease in public places.
借助热成像识别和红外技术，这套系统可以同时对多人进行测量体温、佩戴口罩识别及预警和追踪高危人群。
Using thermal imaging recognition and infrared technology, the system allows multiple people to be measured simultaneously, to be identified by masks and to provide early warning and tracking of high-risk populations.
也就是说，它能够实时检测到移动人员的体温，还可以识别出他们有没有戴口罩。
In other words, it can detect the temperature of moving people in real time, and can also recognize whether they are wearing masks.
南歌忘不了火车上的惊魂一夜，和人们把同类视为敌人的戒备神情。
South Song cannot forget the night of panic on the train, and people like to think of the enemy's alert look.
在书芮和尘埃看来，他们在隔离期间所作的努力，为疫情防控提供一些能力之外，也能化解人们内心深处对未知的恐惧。
In the view of Shu Rui and Dust, their efforts during isolation, apart from providing some capacity for disease control, can also allay deep-seated fears of the unknown.
不论是靓靓、玖妹、黄晶、武纲还是安全工程师们，他们都是芸芸众生里的普通一员。
Whether they are beautiful, beautiful for girls, Huang Jing, Wu Gang or safety engineers, they are all ordinary people in the crowd.
这些普通人聚集起来，合力编织出一张绵密有力的网，试图托住那些在这场疫情中惴惴不安的人。
These ordinary people have come together to weave a powerful web, trying to hold those who are apprehensive about the epidemic.
前线的医护人员在努力医治病患生理上的疼痛，后方的普通人们也在尽其所能，治疗和守护那些被肺炎阴影笼罩的心灵。
The front-line health care workers are trying to heal the physical pain, and ordinary people on the home front are doing all they can to heal and protect the hearts and minds under the shadow of pneumonia.
怀抱希望，当每个普通人都挥舞着手里的灯筒，相助守望，隔绝的孤岛也将连成大陆。
Embrace hope, when each ordinary person brandished the lamp tube in the hand, helps guard watch, the isolated island also will connect the continent.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​普通人，照亮普通人。
The ordinary citizen illuminates the common man.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "​普通人，照亮普通人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; an ordinary citizen, lighting up at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "相助守望，隔绝的孤岛也将连成大陆。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; isolated islands will also form a continent.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
