周黑鸭董事长：活着就是未来，活下去就是未来。
Chairman Zhou Hei Duck: To live is the future, to live is the future.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
从大年初一到今天，周黑鸭董事长周富裕一直待在武汉。
From the New Year's Day to today, the chairman of Zhou Hei Duck Zhou Fu has been staying in Wuhan.
他成为熟人关注的对象，关心有时是微信上两个字试探，「在吗？」有时是疑问，「需要帮助什么？」关系更好的，会急吼吼地打电话问，「传言可信吗？」周富裕大笑，说让大家放宽心，「我很好。
He became the object of attentions from acquaintances. Sometimes the words "Yes?" were used to sound the question, "What do I need to help?" The better-connected caller would yell, "Can the rumor be believed?" Zhou Fu laughed and said, "I'm fine."
」平时，周富裕三个字隐匿在「周黑鸭」后面，有人猜想周黑鸭包装上斜眼卖萌的卡通男孩是不是他本人，他说那是他头发茂密时做的商标，现在干脆是一粒光头。
Normally, Zhou was hidden behind the word "Zhou" and some wondered if Zhou had been wearing a slanted-eyed cartoon boy. He said it was a trademark he had made when his hair was thick and he was now a bald head.
正如卡通男孩传递出来的信号，周富裕希望自己是那种人，「我一到，气氛就好，给人一种好玩的感觉。
As the cartoon boy signaled, Zhou wanted to be one of those people, "When I arrived, the atmosphere was good, giving people a sense of fun."
」他婉拒了《人物》记者的登门拜访，在这个时刻，这一决定非常可理解。
"He declined a call from People, a decision that was perfectly understandable at the moment.
周黑鸭是武汉的标签，一个体现是，在方舱医院，有护士把「周黑鸭」、「热干面」写在防护服上，宣布「我想吃」。
Zhou Hei Duck is a Wuhan label. One example is that at Fang Cao Hospital, a nurse wrote "Chow Hei Duck" and "Hot-dry noodles" on protective clothing and declared "I want to eat."
周黑鸭与武汉的关联可以追溯到1994年，重庆人周富裕投奔在武汉做卤菜的姐姐，后来自己开了家卤鸭店。
Zhou's association with Wuhan dates back to 1994, when Zhou Fu, a Chongqing resident, defected to his sister, who worked in Wuhan as a halogen vegetable, and later opened his own halogen duck store.
他偏爱吃甜食，想做出一只让人一想到就掉口水的鸭子。
He likes to eat sweets and wants to make a duck that makes people drool at the thought of it.
这样的「鸭」，把他一路送到香港联交所，在2016年上市交出的首份年报中，营业收入达到28亿。
The "Duck" sent him all the way to the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, generating $2.8 billion in revenue in its first annual report, due out in 2016.
2019年胡润百富榜显示，他身价50亿。
According to the 2019 Hurun Rich List, he is worth $5 billion.
他拥有普通人难以想象的财富，但是，在这次疫情中，他也是一个普通的武汉居民，经历着武汉普通人会经历的一切，被人躲避，闭不出户，担心自己被感染，一个口罩用四天。
He has unimaginable wealth, but in this epidemic, he is also an ordinary Wuhan residents, experience ordinary Wuhan will go through everything, people hide, shut down, fear of their own infection, a mask for four days.
同时，作为身处漩涡中心的武汉企业，他面对压力，也将面对全国食客对「武汉的鸭子还能吃吗」的担忧。
At the same time, as the center of the Whirlpool Wuhan enterprises, he will face pressure, will also face the national diners "Wuhan duck can eat it?"
在受访中，周富裕多次提及自己在SARS期间的遭遇，这段经历给了他警觉和「听话」的原则。
In the interview, Zhou repeatedly referred to his experiences during SARS, which gave him the principle of vigilance and "obedience."
他说，「活下去就是未来，不出门就能活着。
"To live is to live in the future, to live without going out," he said.
」文|龚菁琦编辑 |槐杨1《人物》：这个春节，你是怎么度过的？ 周富裕 ：农历二十七，我回了重庆老家，准备看看两位老人。
How did you spend your Spring Festival? Zhou Fu: I returned to my hometown of Chongqing to see two elderly people.
农历二十九，也就是1月23日，知道封城的消息。
On the 29th day of the lunar calendar, January 23rd, the news of the city's closure was known.
本想在家里陪陪两位老人，但是很遗憾。
I wanted to stay at home with two old men, but I'm sorry.
封城当天，我就往武汉方向赶了。
On the same day, I made my way to Wuhan.
《人物》：知道封城还是回了武汉，当时怎么考虑的？周富裕：坦白说，我在老家不出门是最安全的，但是会给家里人造成麻烦，这是我最先考虑的，觉得还是要回武汉。
Zhou Fu: Frankly speaking, it is the safest thing for me not to go out in my hometown, but it will cause trouble to my family, which is my first thought, and I still want to return to Wuhan.
我回老家也有一些朋友知道，说到家里来看我。
Some of my friends back home know that I come to see me at home.
但武汉既然封城了，证明事态很严重，我也看到网上很多信息说武汉人怎么怎么，谈「武」色变，我就跟朋友讲，不要来。
However, Wuhan since the closure of the city, proof that the situation is very serious, I also saw a lot of information on the Internet how Wuhan people, talk about "Wu" color change, I told my friends, do not come.
又因为我们是从武汉回来，周围的人我就不去接触了，回家我只接触了父母，还有一位邻居。
Because we came back from Wuhan, people around me will not contact, I only contact my parents, and a neighbor.
农历二十九，我们往武汉赶。
On the 29th lunar month, we make for Wuhan.
路过一个镇的赶集场，一位亲戚看到我们开的车，打招呼，我都没把窗户打开。
Passing a town fair, a relative saw our car, said hello, I did not open the window.
我们还是有些担忧，当时不知道自己是否带着这种病毒，就跟大家说防范一点，注意一点。
We are still a little worried, at that time did not know whether they were carrying the virus, to say to everyone to guard against, pay attention to a bit.
关心别人，也关心自己嘛。
Care for others, and care for yourself.
但其实也造成了麻烦，因为我们回老家，之后当地政府让父母在自家隔离，每天派人到家里消毒，做防护，各个角落喷酒精。
But it was also a problem because we went back home, and then the local government isolated our parents at home and sent people home every day to disinfect them, protect them and spray alcohol in every corner.
我觉得政府帮我操了这份心，这么看，也很温馨。
I think the government helped me to take care of this heart, this view, but also very warm.
说明防护意识非常强。
It shows a very strong sense of protection.
其实我们回武汉的目的就是不想给别人增添麻烦，增添这种担心跟顾虑，就怕这个。
In fact, the purpose of our return to Wuhan is to do not want to add trouble to others, add this worry and concern, afraid of this.
《人物》：但是武汉当时的医疗资源不足，很多重症找不到床位，你考虑到这种风险吗？周富裕：我们考虑过这个问题。
But Wuhan was short of medical resources, and many seriously ill patients could not find beds. Do you think about this risk? Zhou Fu: We considered this question.
我跟家人讲，假设我们被这个肺炎感染了，武汉的医疗条件确实很好，但是突发事件这么多人，医院不可能一下子把人收治进去，那我们要考虑清楚这样的时候怎么办。
I told my family that if we were infected by this pneumonia, Wuhan medical conditions are indeed very good, but so many emergencies, the hospital can not treat people at once, we have to consider how to do.
家人说，还是相信我们年轻力壮，平时经常锻炼。
Family members said, or believe that we are young and strong, usually exercise.
我们也看到信息，就是感染这个病毒的一般是老年人，第二是有疾病史的人，所以我们自己有信心，同时也相信，如果真是重症，政府也会收治。
We also see the message that people with the virus are generally old people and those with a history of illness, so we have confidence in ourselves and believe that if it is really serious, the government will take care of it.
回还是不回，我们当时还是做了很多思想斗争的，做了很多假设。
Back or not back, we still did a lot of ideological struggle, made a lot of assumptions.
第二个假设是如果不回武汉，呆在老家，如果当地发病比较少，救治我们是最快的。
The second hypothesis is that if you do not go back to Wuhan, stay home, if the local incidence is relatively small, we are the fastest treatment.
但紧跟着是第三个假设，当时我们已经知道很多人已经流出武汉了，那这些人最容易去的就是周边城市，如果集体爆发，这些周边城市的医疗条件是否比武汉好？几个假设最后的答案都差不多，那我们觉得待在武汉可以，不出去就是最好的。
But then came the third hypothesis, when we already knew that many people had already left Wuhan, and that the easiest places for these people to go were the surrounding cities, and if so, whether the medical conditions in the surrounding cities were better than Wuhan?
从农历二十九从老家出发到初一回到武汉，中间我跟家人一直在商量，决定还是回去。
From the 29th lunar month to the beginning of the junior high school back to Wuhan, in the middle of my family has been consulting, decided to go back.
外面再好，我还是愿意回武汉。
No matter how nice it is outside, I would like to go back to Wuhan.
《人物》：回武汉一路上顺利吗？周富裕：当时网上的信息、朋友的信息，只言片语的，很难分辨真假，我就跟家人商量，先住在武汉附近看看。
Zhou Fu: When the information on the Internet, the information of a friend, can hardly distinguish between true and false, I discussed with my family and lived near Wuhan first.
因为武汉封城，怎么进去呢？我们先打听清楚了再说。
Because Wuhan sealed the city, how to go in? We have to find out first.
所以农历二十九，我们在荆门住进一家酒店。
So on the 29th lunar month, we stayed in a hotel in Jingmen.
酒店是开门的，但下高速时确实感觉事态非常严峻，要量体温。
The hotel is open, but it does feel very serious down at high speed. Take your temperature.
到酒店也要量体温，还发放口罩。
To the hotel to take temperature, but also to distribute masks.
那天我还在药店里买了很多药，花了将近一千块，其中一种最贵，我忘了名字了，三人份六百多。
The other day I bought a lot of medicine at the drugstore and spent nearly a thousand dollars. One of them was the most expensive. I forgot my name.
知道什么叫病急乱投医了，我们就按说明书天天吃，预防病毒。
Know what it means to go to hospital in a hurry, we eat according to the instructions every day to prevent viruses.
又跑去沃尔玛买了一瓶54度的白酒，42块钱，消毒用，反正总比没有好。
Wal-Mart went to Wal-Mart to buy a 54-degree bottle of white wine, 42 yuan, disinfection, anyway better than no.
跑了荆门好几个药店都没口罩，说是抢疯了，早没了。
Running Jingmen several pharmacies do not face mask, said that is crazy, long gone.
结果到酒店，发了两个，还是医用的，特别好，我觉得很温馨。
Results to the hotel, issued two, or medical, especially good, I feel very warm.
那时候口罩是你花多少钱也买不到的，会有一种感觉，钱能买到的东西真的很少。
At that time the mask is how much money you can not buy, there will be a feeling that money can buy very little.
《人物》：大年三十是怎么度过的？周富裕：这是非常难忘的大年三十。
People: How did you spend your New Year's Eve? Zhou Fu: It was an unforgettable New Year's Eve.
我和家人在荆门的酒店里，一人一碗方便面。
My family and I are in Jingmen's hotel, a bowl of instant noodles.
我还发了个抖音说，今年的春节是不同寻常的佳节，这是真正的守岁之日。
I also said that the Spring Festival this year is an unusual holiday, which is the real date to keep watch.
又因为我对电影《地道战》里的台词耳熟能详，就说，「各家各户注意了，你们各自为阵，不要出门，不要串门，不要走亲访友，在家里看春晚，喝小酒，吃大餐，一家人团团圆圆过大年，让真正肆虐的病毒去见鬼吧！」吃吃饭、发发祝福到晚上快九点钟，我就跟公司的高管团队开会，考虑捐赠。
And because I've heard so much about the lines in the movie "The War of the Earth," I said, "All of you are welcome. Don't go out, don't drop in, don't visit your friends or relatives, watch the Spring Festival Gala at home, drink booze, have a big meal, let the really ravaging virus go to hell!
先是想捐物，我就问我们有多少鸭腿。
First I wanted to give something, and I asked how many duck legs we had.
鸭腿是最容易解决肚子问题的，不是鸭脖鸭翅，那个很难啃。
Duck leg is the easiest to solve the stomach problem, not duck duck wings, that difficult to gnaw.
但我们公司很早就有防范，武汉工厂是停产状态，也不允许出入，所以觉得要捐产品，如果现场卤制、再送出去，做不到，就商量先捐款。
But our company has long been on guard, Wuhan factory production is not allowed to enter or leave, so I feel that to donate products, if the site halogen, and then sent out, not to discuss the first donation.
那时决定捐1000万，捐到慈善总会，但当时可能捐赠人特别多，电话也很难打进去，我们也在各种核实当中，所以最终是初一下午，正式捐了出去。
It was decided to donate ten million dollars to the charity, but there were so many potential donors and it was difficult for us to get in, and we were in the process of verification, so it was the first afternoon of junior high school.
看到有医护人员想吃周黑鸭，周黑鸭给他们送了礼盒 图源央视新闻截图《人物》：回到武汉后感觉如何，跟以前的武汉有什么不同？周富裕：初一，我们从荆门回到武汉，在高速路口看到进入荆门的车有排队量体温的。
How does it feel when we get back to Wuhan? Zhou Fu: On the first day of the year, we returned to Wuhan from Jingmen, where we saw the cars standing in line to take their temperature.
当时进入武汉是留了一条通道，我们下了高速，直接可以进来，也没有关卡、量体温、登记什么的。
At that time into Wuhan is left a passage, we down the high-speed, direct access, there are no checkpoints, temperature, registration and so on.
武汉出城封城并有公安把守，没有看到一辆车出城，而我们进城的一路上也没有看到别的车，觉得哎呀，这条道好像单独是为我们开的，既是一种幸运，又是一种孤独。
Wuhan was out of the city, guarded by the police, and did not see a car out of the city, and we did not see any other cars on the way into the city.
像到了大北方，萧条、凄凉，还是很惆怅的，觉得这次疫情确实影响很大。
Like to the north, depression, desolation, or very melancholy, feel that this epidemic really has a great impact.
2《人物》：在武汉，你平时会怎么防护？周富裕：回到武汉后，跟我一个朋友打电话，我说我现在口罩、酒精、消毒液，啥都没有，裸奔呢。
When I got back to Wuhan, I called one of my friends and I said that I am wearing a mask, alcohol, disinfectant, and running naked.
他叮叮咣咣的，到处去化缘，给我送到家里来了。
He was tinkling, tinkling, tingling, sending me home.
我们在家也很谨慎，人与人交流时必须要戴口罩，吃饭就各吃各的，用公用筷子夹好菜，各自端到旁边去吃；勤洗手；用酒精去擦拭门把手、开关这些常接触的地方。
We are also careful at home, where people have to wear masks when communicating, eat their meals separately, pick up the dishes with common chopsticks and serve each to the side; wash hands frequently; use alcohol to clean the doorknobs and switch off the familiar places.
因为口罩特别紧张，我们很节约，会重复利用。
Because masks are particularly stressful, we are economical and can be reused.
不能浪费，这拿钱都买不到，一个口罩一般用四天。
Don't waste it. You can't buy it. A mask usually takes four days.
还有朋友说要给我送，我说不用，口罩是这个时候最稀缺的，能节约一个，就是多支持一个人。
Still have friend to say to give me, I say no, mask is the scarcest at this time, can save one, is to support a person more.
我们不能浪费这个东西，像护目镜、防护服我们都没有，也就不出门。
We can't waste it. We don't have goggles or protective clothing, so we don't go out.
《人物》：听说你这20多天里，只出去过一次，这唯一一次出去是做什么？周富裕：送药。
PEOPLE: I hear you've only been out once in more than 20 days, what's the only time you've been out? Zhou Fu: Take medicine.
我有一个朋友，他感染了，我在网上看到有些药可以买，就托朋友在医院里买了点药，我去送。
I have a friend, he was infected, I saw some drugs on the Internet can be bought, entrusted friends in the hospital to buy some medicine, I sent.
出门前我做了充分准备，穿了一套旧冲锋衣——做活动送的；一条几十块的健身裤。
Before I left, I was fully prepared and dressed in an old assault suit -- a walking bag; a pair of dozens of gym pants.
我们不像医院那么多装备，能找的就是鞋套、眼镜、帽子和一次性口罩。
We don't have as much equipment as hospitals. All we can find are shoe covers, glasses, hats and disposable masks.
上车后，我把之前穿上的一次性鞋套扔掉，再换新的鞋套，还把酒精喷在纸上，把门把手、方向盘都擦一遍，手、身上喷好，口罩上面也喷。
After I got on the bus, I threw away the disposable shoe covers I had worn before, replaced them with new ones, sprayed the alcohol on the paper, wiped the doorknobs, the steering wheel, sprayed my hands and body, and sprayed the top of my mask.
因为我不能出城，他找了另一个朋友来接，我把药送到了交接处就回来。
Since I couldn't get out of town, he got another friend to pick me up. I took the medicine to the junction and returned.
回到家鞋套扔掉，衣服立刻脱掉，喷洒酒精，也没扔，放在外面晒了两天。
Return home shoe cover to throw away, clothes immediately take off, spray alcohol, also did not throw, leave outside bask two days.
你说有没有风险，肯定有风险，风险也是因为自己防范不到位，不注意，所以我是特别小心。
You say there is no risk, there is certainly a risk, the risk is also because their own guard is not in place, not attention, so I am particularly careful.
疫情期间我找了很多信息，了解对于年轻身强力壮的人来说，这个病毒还好。
During the outbreak, I found a lot of information that the virus was okay for young, able-bodied people.
所以心态很重要，抵抗力很重要。
So mentality is very important, resistance is very important.
我跟那位感染的朋友说，要拼命地吃，哪怕不好吃，也要多吃一点，吃壮一点，抵抗力就强了。
I told the infected friend, to eat desperately, even if not delicious, but also to eat a little stronger, resistance is strong.
《人物》：你在疫区的中心，外地的朋友们会担心你吗？周富裕：我是备受大家关心，同时也是谣言四起。
People: Are your friends in the middle of an epidemic area worried about you? Zhou Fu: I am concerned and rumors are rife.
曾经有个朋友给我打电话，说电话通了，他心里就舒服了一半；再听到我的声音，非常开心；第三句就问我发不发烧？我说不发烧，蛮好。
A friend of mine once called me and said he was half-comforted by the phone call; he was so happy to hear my voice again that I didn't have a fever? I said no fever, it was good.
他说你没有到医院去吗？我说到医院去干啥？原来，他听到一些谣言，但他说得比较委婉，「危在旦夕」嘛。
Did he say you didn't go to the hospital? What did I say about the hospital? He heard some rumors, but he put it mildly, "on the line."
我笑了。
I laughed.
《人物》：会有人因为需要床位，请你帮忙吗？周富裕：很幸运，除了那位朋友，身边的人都很好。
People: Will someone ask you for help because they need beds? Zhou Fu: Luckily, all the people around are very nice except for that friend.
其实中间我也接收负面的信息，我通常会跟他们讲要积极一些，向正面看，不要看它的负面。
In fact, I also receive negative messages. I usually talk to them to be positive, positive and not negative.
《人物》：在封闭空间中人的焦虑情绪会被放大，在家这25天，你如何度过？周富裕：独处我待两个月都没问题，不出房间都可以。
People: How do you spend your 25-day stay at home when your anxiety is magnified in a confined space? Zhou affluent: I can stay alone for two months without getting out of the room.
君子慎独嘛。
Gentlemen, be careful.
我觉得一个人如果每年能有那么七天，独处在一个封闭的、不超过20平米的房间，一定会思考清楚很多的东西，知道自己究竟要什么，不要什么，该做什么，我很建议经营企业的人有这种尝试，一年有那么几天。
I think a person who can spend seven days a year alone in a closed room of no more than 20 square meters must think much more clearly about what he really wants, what he doesn't want, what he should do.
但坦白说，很惭愧，这些天因为家里人都在一起，能静的时候还是比较少。
But frankly, very ashamed, because of the family together these days, the quiet time is still relatively few.
我们会在家走路，从床头走到床尾，从床尾走到客厅，从客厅走到厨房，从厨房再到……每天保持一万多步，还蛮好（笑）。
We would walk at home, from the head of bed to the end of the bed, from the back of the bed to the living room, from the living room to the kitchen, from the kitchen to... to keep more than 10,000 steps a day.
《人物》：小区封闭后，很多武汉人都要在超市采购，而且是限定时间，你有为家里的餐桌操心过吗？周富裕：我今年特别幸运，年前我自己动手熏了一百多斤腊肉，特别好吃，所以天天吃肉（笑）。
Have you ever worried about the dinner table at your familyZhou Fu: I was very lucky this year, I smoked more than 100 jin of bacon by myself one year ago, so I ate meat (laughter) every day.
在老家时，我父母给弄了很多菜，大白菜、包菜、萝卜等等，还有鸡蛋。
In my hometown, my parents made a lot of dishes, cabbage, cabbage, radish and so on, as well as eggs.
回到武汉时那位送口罩的朋友也送过两次菜。
Back in Wuhan, the friend who gave the mask also served twice.
有这些菜，再关20天没问题。
With these dishes, another 20 days will be fine.
《人物》：人在疫区很难不被「恐病情绪」折磨，这二十天里面，有恐惧和怀疑的时候吗？周富裕：之前真有，包括稍微有点咳嗽，哎呀，这是不是那个呀。
People: It's hard not to suffer from "phobia" in an epidemic area. Are there periods of fear and doubt during these 20 days? Zhou Fu: Really, including a little cough before, alas, is that that?
当时我看到一本书，把每天当成生命当中最后的一天，感受很深，这些以前是感受不到的。
I read a book and thought of each day as the last day of my life, something I had never felt before.
当然在家里隔离，从初一到现在快二十天了，显然这种概率就微小了。
Of course, in the home isolation, from the first day of junior high school to the present nearly 20 days, it is clear that the probability of this small.
《人物》：武汉一个个非常具体的政策，对你的生活有影响吗？这些天发生这么多事，这么多消息，有让你记忆深刻的吗？周富裕：我从生活来讲，因为我不出门，所以影响没那么深刻。
So many things have happened and so much news these days.Zhou affluent: In my life, because I do not go out, so the impact is not so profound.
我们是过过苦日子的，在家里喝点稀饭也很好，也不会饿。
We had a miserable life, and it was good to have porridge at home, and not hungry.
人活着就是未来，首先是活，那在家里待着不出去就可以活。
Life is the future, the first is to live, then stay at home can not go out to live.
这段时间有共同记忆点是李文亮医生的逝世。
This period has a common memory point is the death of Dr. Lee Wenliang.
那之前打开手机除了疫情还是疫情，李文亮的新闻不一样，多的是沉痛。
Before that opens the mobile phone besides the epidemic situation, Li Wenliang's news is not the same, many is heavy pain.
我还写了一个小日记，我们希望这个是谣言，但它却不是谣言。
I also wrote a little diary, which we hope is a rumor, but it is not a rumor.
当时，每个普通的武汉人都会蛮触动。
At that time, every ordinary Wuhan people will be pretty touching.
3《人物》：疫情对武汉带来了巨大的影响，尤其对企业。
People: The epidemic has had a tremendous impact on Wuhan, especially on enterprises.
你刚才也谈到，周黑鸭的防范措施比较早，为什么可以得到较早防范？周富裕：追溯起来，对这个事情的重视要追溯到元月一号。
You just talked about, Zhou Hei Duck's preventive measures are relatively early, why can get earlier prevention? Zhou Fu: Retrospective, the attention to this matter goes back to January 1.
那天有几个企业家到我家里吃饭，正好有一个企业家，说到这件事的严重性，他做的跟餐饮有关，最担心批发市场被封。
A few entrepreneurs came to my house to eat that day, just an entrepreneur, speaking of the seriousness of the matter, he did catering, most worried about the closure of the wholesale market.
那天海鲜市场封了，就说这个事情可能会很严重。
When the seafood market closed that day, I said it might be serious.
到14号，我又跟一帮朋友吃饭，说起这个病，就说现在这个病毒疑似人传人，存在这种苗头了。
To the 14th, I eat with a group of friends, talking about the disease, said that the virus is now suspected of human-to-human, the emergence of this phenomenon.
第二天，15号，我又跟另外一帮人吃饭，有人说他的岳父岳母就得了这个病。
The next day, on the 15th, I ate with another group of people who said his father-in-law's mother-in-law had the disease.
疫情发生后，周黑鸭坚守在岗位上的工作人员都会按时自测体温 图源周黑鸭微信公号我是经历过SARS的，非常重视。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, Zhou Hei Duck stick to the post staff will be on time since the temperature mapping source Zhou Hei Duck Wei Xin official No. I have experienced SARS, take it seriously.
1号就开始重视办公场所的消杀。
No.1 began to pay attention to the elimination of office space.
我们的工厂车间是半封闭的，每天都会做消杀，1号后是办公场所也开始消杀。
Our factory workshop is semi-enclosed, every day will do the elimination, the office after the first also began to eliminate.
14号后，要求公司全部戴口罩，特别是窗口门店。
After the 14th, the company is required to wear all masks, especially window stores.
19号，我还去「暗访」，到火车站的门店去看员工是不是戴口罩。
On the 19th, I went to the "unannounced visit" to the train station store to see if the staff were wearing masks.
其中一个没戴，我立刻给CEO打电话，说必须要戴。
One of them wasn't wearing it, and I immediately called the CEO and said I had to wear it.
我们算是一个非常非常幸运的企业吧，警觉得比较早。
We're a very, very lucky company, you know, early on.
在这个环节当中我们首先想到的不是销售，而是安全，员工的安全，顾客的安全。
In this link, we are not thinking of sales, but security, employee safety, customer safety.
我是经历过SARS的，那时候就说要做安全的食品，2008年开始研究锁鲜产品。
I've been through SARS, and I was talking about making safe food, and in 2008 I started working on locked products.
我们在前期，花了那么多钱搞研究，搞研发，所以你会看到那些小护士姐姐们说要吃周黑鸭，那是以前的口碑积累下来的。
We spent so much money on research and development in the early days, so you will see the little nurses and sisters talking about eating Chou Hee Duck.
义在前，利在后，如果我们没有足够的品质保障，哪个小姐姐敢吃呢？《人物》：这次疫情，餐饮业首当其冲地遭遇困难，周黑鸭会怎么度过？周富裕：首先，政府非常重视这次疫情，出台了很多政策。
If we don't have enough quality guarantee, which little sister dares to eat? People: This epidemic, the catering industry is bearing the brunt of the difficulties, how will Zhou Hei-yu spend? Zhou affluent: First, the government takes the outbreak seriously and has put in place many policies.
企业在这个时候应该承担员工的保障，我们也对风险做了准备。
At this point in time the enterprise should assume the staff security, we also prepared for the risk.
活着就是未来，活下去就是未来。
To live is the future, to live is the future.
周富裕参加电视节目时，曾表达过对「倒下」的定义  图源《大写湖北人》综艺截图周黑鸭是个非常专注的企业，没有去进行多元化投资，现在看来这也是幸运的地方。
When Zhou Yu participated in the TV program, he once expressed his view on the definition of "Fallen". The drawing "Hubei Man" is a very dedicated enterprise. Zhou Hei Duck has not diversified his investment, and it seems to be a lucky place.
我们在香港上市，也很真诚地把我们的风险点告诉投资者，现在我们关了一千家门店。
We went public in Hong Kong and honestly told investors about our risk. Now we've closed a thousand stores.
根据政府的要求，让我们停业我们就停业，配合政府和相关卫生机构的指引和安排。
At the request of the Government, we were shut down and we closed down to comply with the guidelines and arrangements of the Government and relevant health institutions.
包含薪资，包含我们什么时候开工，都是根据政府要求来的。
Including salary, including when we start work, is based on the government's request.
短时间内企业肯定会承受压力，但因为我们的企业诚信很好，同时我们也相信疫情不会持续太长时间。
Companies will certainly be under pressure in the short term, but because our business integrity is good, we also believe that the epidemic will not last too long.
《人物》：你觉得大概会持续多久？周富裕：我们再准备一个半月来对抗疫情，我认为一个半月以后肯定情况是很阳光的，如果幸运，应该不会那么长时间。
How long do you think it will last? Zhou Fu: We are going to fight the epidemic for another month and a half. I think it will be sunny in a month and a half.
现在武汉已经隔离，我们老家农村，村与村之间也不流动，出问题的会显现出来，好了就好了。
Wuhan has now been isolated, our hometown countryside, between the village and the flow, the problem will become apparent, good enough.
我是持乐观态度。
I am optimistic.
压力肯定会有。
There's bound to be stress.
我们经历过SARS，知道中间会面临的情况，我们做好隔离，也做好复工的准备，等复工时，口罩要到位，酒精要到位，确保人员是经过自我隔离的，工厂进出也要做好消杀工作。
We've been through SARS and we know what's going to happen in the middle. We're going to be quarantined and ready to go back to work. When we get back to work, we need masks in place, alcohol in place, people who are self-isolated and factories that come in and out have to be sterilized.
《人物》：2003年的SARS对于你来说是一个很重要的经验，当时具体发生了什么？周富裕：我在2002年下半年到了北京，在太阳宫的一个菜市场里面开始建作坊，装修，弄店。
What happened then? Zhou Fu: I arrived in Beijing in the second half of 2002 and started building workshops, renovations and shops in a Halles Market in the Sun Palace.
等准备开张的时候，SARS来了。
By the time we were ready to open, SARS was here.
我被隔离在六环外的大兴，村与村都不通。
I was isolated outside the sixth ring of the great Xing, the village and village can not understand.
那个时候我们八九个人住在一起，非常恐惧，生怕被传染了。
At that time we lived together eight or nine people, very frightened, afraid of being infected.
当时政府还免费提供中药，我们的房东还弄药过来，大家熬着吃、熬着喝。
At that time, the government also provided free Chinese medicine, our landlord also get medicine over, we eat and drink.
谁都不敢出门，憋着很难受。
No one dared to go out, and was suffocating.
后来SARS还没有完全过去我们就开张，开张就闭店。
Before SARS completely passed, we opened and closed our doors.
那时候很后悔跑到北京做这个投资。
Back then, I regretted running to Beijing to make this investment.
其实还是计划不周详，比较冲动跟莽撞，当时也没有团队，没有管理企业的经验。
In fact, the plan is not detailed, more impulsive and reckless, then there was no team, there is no experience of business management.
《人物》：现在在网上搜索周黑鸭，下方会出现一个问题，「周黑鸭还能吃吗」？周黑鸭跟武汉密不可分，你觉得，疫情过后怎么来打破「武汉出品」的恐惧，重建人们对周黑鸭的信任？周富裕：2003年SARS之后，我的一个想法是，不要卖裸露产品。
"People": Now in the Internet search for Chow Black Duck, there will be a question, "Can Zhou Black Duck still eat it?" Zhou Black Duck and Wuhan inseparable, how do you think after the outbreak of the disease to break down the fear of "Wuhan production," rebuild people's trust in Chou Hei Duck?
通过这次疫情我们可以看到裸露产品的劣势，我们说话唾沫会飞一两米远，打个喷嚏带着的病菌就会落在产品上面去。
From this outbreak, we can see the disadvantage of exposed products, we can speak spit will fly a meter or two, sneeze with the germs will fall on the product.
但如果是密封的就不存在这个问题。
But if it's sealed, there's no problem.
在行业当中，产品检测我们花的费用应该是最多的。
In the industry, product testing should cost us the most.
而且周黑鸭是多工厂，除了华中，还有华北、华南、华东和西南。
Besides the central China, there are also North China, South China, East China and Southwest China.
这些都可以消除一部分恐惧。
These can allay some of the fears.
据媒体消息，受疫情影响周黑鸭约1000家门店停业图源视觉中国《人物》：你是重庆人，来到武汉创业，在武汉生活了这么多年，你怎么看武汉这座城市，怎么看武汉人的性格？周富裕：你会发现武汉也好，重庆也好，都是码头文化。
According to media reports, Zhou Hei Duck is affected by the epidemic situation Some 1,000 shops are closed down by ChinaPeople: You are from Chongqing, you have come to Wuhan to start a business and live in Wuhan for so many years, what do you think of the character of Wuhan and Wuhan?
人很直爽，脾气很暴躁，说话像吵架一样，但他们只是用这种很有激情的方式表达，刀子嘴豆腐心，有一种江湖气。
People are straightforward, grumpy and quarrelsome, but they just express it in such a passionate way that they have a kind of charade.
武汉有一句话叫「一口一碑」，意思是说话算话。
Wuhan has a saying called "word by word," meaning word for word.
刚开始到武汉做生意的时，借个什么，钱上的往来，从来不会有个条子，借了就借了，一口一碑。
At the beginning of business in Wuhan, borrowed something, money exchanges, will never have a note, borrowed on the word, one word by word.
1995年时我亏得，用武汉话说，叫「裤子都没底了」，依然还有人赊了两千多块钱的账给我。
In 1995 I was losing money. In Wuhan, it was called "my pants are bottomless," and I still had more than 2,000 dollars on credit.
我跟他说，如果做起来，你的钱就有还；做不起来，那你就认了。
I told him that if you did it, you'd have it back; if not, you'd admit it.
就这样他也敢借。
That's how he borrows it.
很快，第二年就还上了。
Soon, the next year it was back.
我很感恩武汉这片热土，人是讲先义后利。
I am very grateful to Wuhan, this piece of land, people are speaking justice before profit.
《人物》：等疫情结束了，你做的第一件事是什么？周富裕：我很希望到公司去，看看我们那些同事。
People: What's the first thing you do when the epidemic is over? Zhou affluent: I'd love to go to the company and see our colleagues.
在疫情期间，我还是有恐惧，担心自己感染，假设自己感染上了、没有治好，可能就会同事见不到。
During the epidemic, I was still afraid, worried about my infection, assuming that I was infected and not cured, I might not be able to see my co-workers.
真的会有这种念头。
There's a real thought for that.
我是好几年都没有到武汉的繁华街区去了，很希望这个疫情结束之后，去那些大型繁华商圈、步行街去转一转，那个词叫什么，喧哗、繁华。
I have not been to the bustling streets of Wuhan for several years, I very much hope that the end of this epidemic, to those large bustling business circles, pedestrian streets to take a stroll, what the word is called, noisy, bustling.
现在手机上看到的是整条马路、整个小区没啥人，我怀念那样的繁华，也想第一时间去吃吃小吃，当然，吃周黑鸭也行啊。
Now the mobile phone is to see the whole road, the whole neighborhood no one, I miss that bustling, also want to eat snacks for the first time, of course, eat Chou Hei Duck is OK.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
周黑鸭董事长：活着就是未来，活下去就是未来。
Chairman Zhou Hei Duck: To live is the future, to live is the future.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "周黑鸭董事长：活着就是未来，活下去就是未来";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; To be alive is to be & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "「经历过非典，我们1月1号就开始警觉。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We were alerted by SARS on January 1.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
