武汉机动车禁令后，这支四千人志愿车队说：“我们还在”。
Wuhan motor vehicle ban, the 4,000-person volunteer convoy said: "We are still here."
贺佳雯。
Eugenia Ho.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲一名志愿车队司机和坐车的医护人员合影。
A volunteer motorcade driver took a picture with the medical staff on the bus.
（受访者供图/图）全文共3020字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(The full text is 3020 words. It takes about 8 minutes to read.
看着后视镜里，这个女医生崩溃得痛哭流涕，李小熊强压悲伤，陪着她小声啜泣，不知道该如何安慰，只能反复说“有希望的”。
Looking in the rearview mirror, the female doctor broke down and cried bitterly. Li Xiong was so sad that he could not understand how to comfort her and could only say "hopefully."
家里就剩下一个N95口罩。
There's only one N95 mask left in the house.
老伴把口罩让给了刘筱，自己把两个普通口罩叠在一起戴上了。
Prince Hisahito gave up his mask to Hisahito, and he folded both his ordinary masks and put them on.
没有防护服，两人就穿上了雨衣。
Without protective clothing, they put on raincoats.
没有护目镜，刘筱就戴上了儿子的摩托车防风镜。
Without goggles, Liu put on his son's motorcycle windshield.
一位医护人员说，医用口罩在“超负荷”使用，从4个小时一换，到一个口罩用一整天，甚至到了用酒精消毒反复使用的程度。
Medical masks are being "overloaded," from four hours a day to a mask that takes a whole day, to the point where they are repeatedly used to sterilize alcohol, a paramedic said.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 贺佳雯责任编辑 | 何海宁除夕夜的钟声刚过，90后武汉市民李小熊驾车赶到武汉大学中南医院，有一位医生在等着回家。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这是那天李小熊最后一名乘客：一位戴着蓝色医用口罩的女医生，面容有些憔悴。
It was Li's last passenger that day: a woman doctor in a blue medical mask with a gaunt face.
一见面，医生就向李小熊连声道谢。
The doctor thanked Xiao Xiong Li as soon as he met him.
上车不久，李小熊突然听到后座传来哭声。
Shortly after he got on the bus, Li Xiong suddenly heard crying from the back seat.
不是小声啜泣，而是嚎啕大哭。
Not in a whisper, but in a wail.
“每当一个人确诊感染，我去通知他的时候，我明明知道医治困难，还要安慰他马上就会好的。
"Whenever a person is diagnosed with an infection and I go to tell him, I know the treatment is going to be difficult and I want to comfort him right away.
”医生哭道，“感觉自己说的都不相信，真的受不了了。
"cried the doctor." I can't believe what I'm saying, I can't stand it.
”看着后视镜里，一个成年人崩溃得痛哭流涕，李小熊强压悲伤，陪着她小声啜泣，不知道该如何安慰，只能反复说“有希望的”。
"Looking in the rearview mirror, a grown man broke down and cried bitterly. Li Xiong, suppressing his sadness, sobbed to her in silence, not knowing how to comfort her, but saying" hopefully. "
新年初一，李小熊在电话里向南方周末记者回忆那一幕时，忍不住又哭了起来。
On the first day of the new year, Li XiaoBear was in the telephone to Southern Weekend reporter recall that scene, could not help but cry again.
这是大疫情里的两个特殊群体，乘客是奋战一线的医护人员，司机是武汉市民组成的志愿者，因为看不见的情感连结，坐到了同一辆车上。
This is the two special groups in the pandemic, the passengers are the front-line medical personnel, the driver is Wuhan city, composed of volunteers, because the invisible emotional link, sat in the same car.
1车队建成一天就解散了？李小熊是这支特殊车队的发起者之一。
The team was disbanded one day after it was built. Lee was one of the initiators of the special team.
据报名数据统计，有超过四千名像她这样的武汉市民，从1月24日大年三十起，自发组成了一个医疗支援志愿车队，接送医护人员上下班。
According to statistics, more than 4,000 Wuhan city residents like her have spontaneously formed a medical support volunteer convoy to transport medical workers to and from work since January 24, the Chinese New Year's Eve.
此前一天，1月23日10时起，因遏制新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情需要，武汉全市的城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客车暂停运营。
The previous day, January 23, 10: 00, due to the need to curb the new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic, Wuhan city-wide bus, subway, ferry, long-distance bus operation suspended.
同时，1月24日12时起，武汉全市网约出租车停止运营，巡游出租车实行单双号限行。
Meanwhile, from 12: 00 on January 24, Wuhan city network about taxi stop operation, cruise taxis to implement a single double-line restrictions.
一时间，医护人员上下班的交通出行受到限制。
For a while, commuting by medical staff was limited.
一位医护人员电话告诉南方周末记者，他的同事只能靠步行或是骑共享单车上下班。
A medical worker called Southern Weekend to tell reporters that his colleagues had to walk or ride bicycles to and from work.
有些同事住得远，干脆就睡在了医院。
Some of my colleagues lived far away and simply slept in the hospital.
值班室床位不够，就睡在地上、趴在桌上。
There were not enough beds in the duty room and they slept on the floor and on the table.
李小熊从事医疗整形行业。
Li XiaoBear is engaged in plastic surgery.
“同行不断在各种微信群里求车，有的医生无奈之下甚至打电话给110，但这么多人警察也管不过来啊。
"The same people in a variety of micro-letter groups, some doctors helplessly even call 110, but so many police can not manage ah.
”于是，李小熊和武汉慈善总会善缘义助基金执行秘书长张小艳商量着，通过各种微信群、朋友圈发起组建爱心接送车队的倡议。
So Li Xiong and Zhang Xiaoyan, the executive secretary of Wuhan Charities Trust, discussed launching a love-giving convoy initiative through various micro-groups and circles of friends.
倡议一发出，就有不少车主自发加入车队。
As soon as the initiative was launched, many owners spontaneously joined the convoy.
截至25日19时许，已经有超过四千名车主报名，有760辆志愿车正在接送医护人员。
By about 1900 hours on the 25th, more than 4,000 car owners had signed up, and 760 volunteer vehicles were carrying medical staff.
这支特别的车队中，车主来自各行各业，年龄从二十来岁到五六十岁，只要有驾照、能开车，就能加群报名。
The owner of the special motorcade, from his 20s to his 50s and 60s, was able to enroll in groups with a driver's license and ability to drive.
“我在这（武汉）生活，总得做点什么。
"I have to do something to live here.
”这是受访车主讲得最多的一句话。
"That's the most common line spoken by motorists.
车主按区域安排了车队分工，主要分汉口、武昌、洪山、青山、汉阳、光谷等片区，分别对应建立了微信群。
Vehicle owners arranged the division of the fleet by region, mainly Hankou, Wuchang, Hongshan, Castle Peak, Hanyang, Guanggu and other areas, corresponding to the establishment of micro-credit groups.
南方周末记者在25日加入“武昌群”里时，短短一小时内，陆陆续续就有十几位志愿车主加入。
Southern Weekend reporter in the 25 to join the "Wuchang group", a short period of one hour, a dozen volunteers gradually joined.
医护人员把出行用车需求发到群里，车主也将行程发到群里，以便能顺路载上更多人。
The paramedics send the travel demand to the group, and the owners send the trips to the group so that they can load more people on the way.
不过，仅仅在车队组建的第二天，1月25日下午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发出通告，从1月26日零时开始，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域机动车禁行。
However, only on the afternoon of January 25, the second day of the convoy, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Control Command issued a notice banning motor vehicles in the central city area starting from 0000 hours on January 26, with the exception of licensed supply vans, free transport vehicles and official vehicles.
通告发布后，小熊发了一条朋友圈，称车队26日起不能接送医护人员。
After the announcement, Cubs issued a circle of friends, said the convoy from 26 to transport medical personnel.
“一个是因为机动车禁行通知，一个是因为爱心车主没有足够的防护服等装备，很不安全。
"One is because of the ban on motor vehicles, the other is because the loving owners do not have enough protective clothing and other equipment, very unsafe.
”2特殊的司机，特殊的乘客车队司机的防护装备确实远远不够。
Special drivers, special motorcade drivers' protective gear is far from enough.
大年初一早上六点多，天幕仍是一片漆黑。
New Year's Day morning more than six, the sky is still dark.
刘筱和老伴就开始驾车接送医护人员。
Liu and his wife began to drive medical personnel.
刘筱已经58岁了，本职工作也是一家口腔医院的医护人员，还在上班。
No, no, no. No, no, no. No, no, no, no.
武汉“封城”后，儿子没能回家过年。
Wuhan "closure", the son did not go home for the New Year.
刘筱和老伴一合计，与其在家闲着，不如“共克时艰”。
Liu Xiaohe and his wife a total, rather than idle at home, "together difficult times."
出门前，家里就剩下一个N95口罩。
One N95 mask was left in the house before leaving the house.
老伴把口罩让给了刘筱，自己把两个普通口罩叠在一起戴上了。
Prince Hisahito gave up his mask to Hisahito, and he folded both his ordinary masks and put them on.
没有防护服，两人就穿上了雨衣。
Without protective clothing, they put on raincoats.
没有护目镜，刘筱就戴上了儿子的摩托车防风镜。
Without goggles, Liu put on his son's motorcycle windshield.
刘筱的儿子特别支持二老的义举，还把这一消息告诉同学、朋友，同学的父亲也争相加入车队。
His son had been particularly supportive of that initiative, and had told his classmates and friends and their fathers to join the team.
此前一天，刘筱接第一位医护人员时，考虑到很多人要坐车，踌躇了半晌，开口想要一些酒精，消毒车把手和座椅。
The day before, Liu took the first medical staff, considering that many people will take a car, hesitated for a long time, open mouth want some alcohol, disinfectant car handles and seats.
那名医护人员转身就给刘筱拿去了。
The paramedics turned around and took Liu.
但只拿出不到30ml的一小瓶酒精。
But less than 30 ml of a small bottle of spirits was produced.
“那已经非常金贵了！”刘筱很是感动。
No, no! No, no! No! No!
肿瘤科医生尹强，初一一早接到医院紧急呼叫，急着赶回医院为病人检查。
Oncology doctor Yin Qiang, received a hospital emergency call early in the morning, rushed back to the hospital for patient examination.
抱着试试看的心态，他在车队群里发出求助信息。
With a try-and-see attitude, he sent out a message of help in the convoy.
很快得到刘筱二老的回应。
No, no, no, no.
在车上，尹强给刘筱夫妇讲解了家庭防护的注意事项，叮嘱二老在家用84消毒液消毒。
In the car, Yin explained to Mr. and Mrs. Hisahito the precautions to be taken in family protection, and told Er to disinfect the disinfectant 84 at home.
但刘筱现在武汉已经买不到84消毒液了，尹强主动说，下班二老再来接他时，给二老带一些。
No 84 disinfectant was available to Hisahito now, but Yin volunteered to bring some to the elder when he came back from work.
这是一批特殊的乘客。
This is a special group of passengers.
也有医护人员向志愿司机诉说现在医患的误解，一些症状轻微的疑似感染病例迟迟得不到检测确诊。
Medical staff have also complained to volunteer drivers about existing misunderstandings among doctors and patients, and some cases of suspected infection with mild symptoms remain undetected.
一位身处武汉市定点医院的医护人员电话告诉南方周末记者，医院目前确实没有那么多的试剂盒用于检测。
A medical worker at Wuhan Ding-point Hospital told Southern Weekend that the hospital did not have so many kits for testing.
医用口罩也在“超负荷”使用，从4个小时一换，到一个口罩用一整天，甚至到了用酒精消毒反复使用的程度。
Medical masks are also being "overloaded," varying from four hours a day to one that takes a whole day, to the point where alcohol is used repeatedly.
这位医护人员在SARS时期抗战在一线，如今年纪大了退居二线。
The paramedic, who fought on the front lines of the SARS epidemic, is now on the back burner.
她感觉这次应对准备不太充分，一方面体现在疫情出现时没有重视，另一方面在于疫情暴发之后，对医务人员后勤保障工作滞后。
She felt that the response was not well prepared, partly because of the lack of attention paid to the outbreak and partly because of delays in the logistics of medical personnel after the outbreak.
3机动车禁令后实际上，李小熊“不能接送”的朋友圈信息发出之后，聚拢一起的车主并未离去。
In fact, after the ban on motor vehicles, Li Xiong "can not pick up" the circle of friends sent messages, together with the owner did not leave.
“解散不是一个人说了算的，我们都是自发的。
"It's not just one person who calls the shots. We're all spontaneous.
只要不被拦，我们做好防护就上（路）。
As long as we are not stopped, we will go up (the road) when we are well protected.
”一位车主告诉南方周末记者，禁行令对配戴医护人员胸牌的车主没有限制。
A car owner told Southern Weekend that the ban imposed no restrictions on owners wearing medical badges.
他刚好从事医疗工作，不在抗击肺炎治疗的一线，就利用休息时间接送其他医护人员。
He happened to be in the medical profession, not on the frontline of fighting pneumonia treatment, so he took time off to pick up other healthcare workers.
截至26日12时许，南方周末记者了解到，仍然有不少车主还在接送医护人员。
As of 12: 00 on the 26th, Southern Weekend reporter learned that there are still a lot of car owners are still transporting medical personnel.
事实上，湖北省公安厅已在24日下发紧急通知，省公安厅、各地公安机关要建立应急物资、专业医护人员运输保障工作机制，明确专人负责对接协调。
In fact, the Public Security Bureau of Hubei Province issued an emergency notice on the 24th, and the provincial public security department and local public security organs should set up a transportation guarantee mechanism for emergency supplies and medical professionals, and make clear who is responsible for the coordination and coordination.
机动车禁行令下达之后，武汉大学中南医院和武汉第四医院宣传处相关工作人员接受媒体采访表示，目前医院已经为一线医务工作者安排了通勤班车，会按时间和路线进行接送。
After the ban on motor vehicles was issued, staff of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital and Wuhan Fourth Hospital Information Office told the media that the hospital has arranged a commuter bus service for front-line medical workers, according to the time and route.
在向武汉有关部门报备后，滴滴称组建了“医护保障车队”。
In Wuhan after reporting to the relevant departments, drip said the formation of a "medical care team."
在媒体披露的新闻照片中，首批100名司机穿戴着防护服、口罩等，装备消毒液，从25日凌晨开始免费提供服务。
The first 100 drivers, wearing protective clothing, face masks and equipped with disinfectant, began offering their services free of charge in the early hours of the 25th.
据悉，滴滴还在召集更多的网约车司机投入服务。
It is reported that drip is still calling more network car drivers into service.
不过，李小熊和志愿车主们认为，这远远不够。
Still, Li and volunteer drivers say that's not enough.
李小熊在和武汉公安部门和红十字会积极沟通，试图通过给志愿车主增加防护服等装备，同时争取让原车队纳入政府统一保障机制之下，继续为医护人员提供接送服务。
Li is actively communicating with Wuhan public security authorities and the Red Cross, trying to continue to provide transport services for medical workers by adding protective clothing and other equipment to volunteer drivers, while also seeking to bring the original fleet under the unified government safeguard mechanism.
1月26日，李小熊告诉南方周末记者：“我们还在”，他们正在统一发放防护服，没穿防护服的不能上路。
"We're still here," Li told Southern Weekend reporter on January 26. "We're still here." They are distributing protective clothing. Those who don't wear protective clothing are not allowed to go on the road.
刘筱的儿子十分挂念着父母健康，特意让在武汉医院工作的同学帮忙给二老带两只N95口罩。
His son was very concerned about his parents' health and asked his classmates at Wuhan Hospital to help him bring two N95 masks.
但1月25日晚上十点左右，接送停止了，刘筱也没去拿口罩，觉得口罩应该留给医生，“他们在一线，我们可以不乱跑”。
But around 10 p. m. on January 25, the pickup stopped, and no Hisino took his mask, feeling that it should be left to the doctor, "They're on the line, we can run."
尹强原本约好了25日下午五点由刘筱夫妇接送，但考虑到二老的安全婉拒了，自己骑了一个多小时共享单车回了家。
Mr. Hisahito had arranged to be picked up by Mr. and Mrs. Hisahito at 5 p.m. on the 25th, but he took more than an hour to share his bicycle with them.
但他跟南方周末记者念叨：“我好不容易搞了点消毒液没来得及送。
But he told Southern Weekend reporter: "I managed to get some disinfectant before I could deliver it.
”1月25日晚上11点半，张小艳还在武东高速口等一名从湖北省阳新县返回的医生。
At 11: 30 p.m. on January 25, Zhang Xiaoyan was waiting for a doctor returning from Yangxin county, Hubei province, at the Wuhan Expressway.
她说不知道明天能不能接送，“能接一个是一个”。
She said she didn't know if she could pick it up tomorrow.
（刘筱、尹强为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Yin asked for a news lead from anyone on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉机动车禁令后，这支四千人志愿车队说：“我们还在”。
Wuhan motor vehicle ban, the 4,000-person volunteer convoy said: "We are still here."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉机动车禁令后，这支四千人志愿车队说：“我们还在”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
