确诊450多人，“钻石公主号”上发生了什么？。
More than 450 people diagnosed. What happened on the Princess Diamond?
确诊450多人，“钻石公主号”上发生了什么？。
More than 450 people diagnosed. What happened on the Princess Diamond?
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
The following article comes from 中国慈善家杂志。
The following article comes from the Chinese philanthropist magazine.
Author 曹然 吴可言。
Author Cao Ran Wu.
中国慈善家杂志。
China Philanthropists Magazine.
中国新闻社主管、中国新闻周刊主办。
Head of China News Agency, hosted by China News Weekly.
立足中国，关注全球慈善公益及社会议题，提供专业、理性兼具深度与温度的报道和分析。
Based in China, focus on global public welfare and social issues, provide professional, rational depth and temperature coverage and analysis.
。
.
目前国际上并没有关于船旗国或其他国家政府需要在此类事件中分担责任的规则。
There are currently no international rules on the sharing of responsibilities between flag States or other Governments in such matters.
巨型豪华邮轮百慕大籍“钻石公主号”接受记者采访前，来自香港的杨先生和夫人进行了咽拭子采样。
Mr. and Mrs. Yang from Hong Kong took swabs and swabs before being interviewed by the giant cruise ship, Bermuda's Princess Diamond.
日本政府派出的医生对他们说，等两到三天后检测结果出来，如果呈阴性他们就可以下船了。
Doctors sent by the Japanese government told them to wait two to three days for the test results to come out and if they were negative they could get off the ship.
截至2月17日，杨先生夫妇已经在“钻石公主号”邮轮上滞留了半个月。
As of February 17, Mr. and Mrs. Yang had been stranded on board the MV Princess Diamond for half a month.
1月25日，他们从香港登船，原计划在2月4日下船并乘坐飞机返回香港。
They boarded the ship from Hong Kong on 25 January and had planned to disembark and return to Hong Kong by air on 4 February.
但是，就在杨先生登上“钻石公主号”当天，一位中国香港籍乘客下船回家。
But on the very day Mr. Young boarded the Princess of Diamonds, a Hong Kong, China passenger got off the ship and went home.
五天后，他被确诊感染新型冠状病毒。
Five days later, he was diagnosed with the new coronavirus.
一场整船隔离行动随后在“钻石公主号”最终靠岸的日本横滨展开。
A shipwreck was then launched in Yokohama, Japan, where the Princess of Diamonds finally docked.
杨先生对《中国慈善家》回忆，2月1日“钻石公主号”停靠日本冲绳时，乘客们依然可以自由下船游玩，而后返回邮轮。
When the Princess of Diamonds docked in Okinawa, Japan, on February 1, passengers were still free to get off the ship and return to it, Yang told China Philanthropists.
但三天后邮轮到达横滨港，乘客们得到通知，应日本政府要求，船上的人不能下船。
However, three days later, when the ship arrived at Yokohama port, the passengers were informed that, at the request of the Government of Japan, the people on board could not disembark.
次日，随着日本政府厚生劳动省和“钻石公主号”所属公主邮轮公司发布正式通告，杨先生夫妇和“钻石公主号”上的3700多名乘客、船员开始了为期14天的隔离。
The next day, Mr. and Mrs. Yang and more than 3,700 passengers and crew of the Princess of Diamonds were quarantined for 14 days, following an official announcement by the government of Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and the Princess of Diamonds.
这是一场争议颇多的隔离。
This is a controversial separation.
多位公共卫生专家对《中国慈善家》指出，日本政府本应让乘客下船隔离。
Public health experts told China Philanthropists that the Japanese government should have taken passengers off the ship.
另一方面，乘客和船员中的确诊人数仍在不断攀升。
On the other hand, the number of confirmed passengers and crew members continues to rise.
据日本厚生劳动省消息，截至2月17日，“钻石公主号”上的确诊人数已达454人，占已检测人数的26.3%，远超日本本土感染总人数。
According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, 454 people had been confirmed on the MV Princess Diamond as of February 17, accounting for 26.3 percent of the total number of people tested, far surpassing the total number of mainland Japanese infections.
2月17日，公主邮轮公司回复《中国慈善家》的采访称，目前“钻石公主号”解除隔离的时间仍定为2月19日。
According to an interview with China Philanthropists on Feb. 17, the date set for the release of the Princess of Diamonds remains Feb. 19.
“依法办事”、“过度反应”还是“估计不足”？2月5日是杨先生和船上乘客们正式被隔离的第一天。
February 5 marks the first day that Mr Yang and his passengers were officially quarantined.
杨先生告诉《中国慈善家》，2月4日当天船上没有采取非常强制性的措施，还有乘客前往邮轮餐厅用餐。
Mr Yang told China Philanthropists that no very mandatory measures were taken on board the ship on February 4, and passengers went to the cruise restaurant for dinner.
2月5日开始，一日三餐由邮轮上的工作人员提供，乘客则足不出户。
Starting on 5 February, three meals a day were provided by staff on board the cruise ship, while passengers stayed at home.
“隔离期”前三天，午餐和晚餐的派送都有半小时以上的延迟。
For the first three days of the quarantine period, lunches and dinners are delivered with more than half an hour's delay.
2月9日开始，情况有所改善。
The situation improved beginning on 9 February.
午餐会在每天中午1点左右送到，主食可以在前一天挑选好。
Luncheons are delivered around 1 p.m. each day, and staple foods can be selected the day before.
图/受访者提供整船隔离的决策是日本政府作出的。
Figure / Respondent's decision to provide ship separation was made by the Government of Japan.
根据《国际海洋法公约》，日本政府对 24海里毗连区和12海里领海的船舶可以行使本国相关卫生防疫法规，而日本政府已于1月28日在内阁会议上通过厚生劳动省提交的《将新型冠状病毒感染肺炎定为指定感染症的政令》，将新型肺炎指定为和SARS同级的二类感染症。
In accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Government of Japan may exercise its national anti-epidemic regulations for ships in the 24-nautical-mile contiguous zone and the 12-nautical-mile territorial sea.
一位日本法律界人士对《中国慈善家》介绍，目前日本《感染症法》共规定了五类感染症，政府可以对一类到三类感染症进行强制隔离，包括强制运送病人至指定医院和限制出行措施。
A Japanese legal expert told China Philanthropists that the country's Infectious Diseases Act now has five types of infection and that the government can impose quarantine measures for infections in categories I to III, including compulsory transportation to designated hospitals and travel restrictions.
而“指定感染症”指在紧急情况下，政府可以通过行政令将新型感染症列为某类感染症，无需修法即可适用《感染症法》。
"Specified Infection" means that in an emergency, the government can classify a new infection as a certain type of infection by executive order, and the Infection Act can be applied without amendment.
“一旦被定为指定感染症，政府将可采取对一到三类感染症采用的强制隔离措施。
"Once classified as a designated infection, the government will be able to use mandatory isolation for one to three types of infection.
”该人士表示。
"said the person.
这些强制措施无需征得患者本人同意。
These coercive measures do not require the consent of the patient.
此外，世界卫生组织基于《国际卫生条例》制订的《船舶公共卫生事件管理手册》也有相似的规定。
In addition, the WHO Manual for the Management of Public Health Incidents on Ships, based on the International Health Regulations, contains similar provisions.
《手册》称，“在识别哪些旅客为疑似接触者后，可能需要对他们隔离一段时间，以确保其无法传播疾病……隔离地点可以是船舱或岸上的酒店内、医疗卫生设施、其他机构或家里。
The Manual states that "after identifying which passengers are suspected contacts, they may need to be isolated for a period of time to ensure that they are not able to transmit disease... The isolation may be in the cabin or hotel on shore, in health facilities, in other institutions or at home."
”根据《手册》的标准，只有“符合接触者标准并出现症状的旅客”需要立即送至指定医疗机构进行进一步评估、实验室诊断和治疗，而无症状的密切接触者只需要“隔离或进行公共卫生观察”。
According to the Manual, only "travellers who meet contact criteria and show symptoms" need to be sent immediately to designated medical institutions for further assessment, laboratory diagnosis and treatment, while asymptomatic close contacts need only "isolation or public health observation."
“隔离期”开始后，“钻石公主号”内舱房的乘客一天有两个时间段可以上甲板。
Passengers in the cabin on the Princess Diamond will be able to board for two hours a day after the quarantine period begins.
船员要求乘客们上甲板时戴口罩，清洁双手，并且保持两米的安全距离。
The crew required passengers to wear masks on deck, clean their hands and maintain a safe distance of two metres.
杨先生对《中国慈善家》表示，他居住的是阳台房，因为含有露天的阳台，仅允许每隔一天上一次甲板。
Mr. Yang told China Philanthropists that he lived on a balcony because it contained an open-air balcony that allowed only one deck every other day.
他和妻子出于安全考虑，从2月5日开始就没有上过甲板，一直留在房中。
He and his wife, for safety reasons, had not been on deck since 5 February and had remained in the house.
杨先生夫妇居住的阳台房，可以随时呼吸新鲜空气。
Mr. and Mrs. Yang live on the balcony room, can breathe fresh air at any time.
图/受访者提供乘客们的担心不无道理。
Chart / Respondents had a good point in providing information about passengers' concerns.
根据日本厚生劳动省通报的数据，截至2月17日，“钻石公主号”已经有1723名乘客接受检测，其中454人确诊感染新型冠状病毒。
According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, 1,723 passengers had been tested on board the vessel as of February 17, 454 of whom were confirmed to be infected with the new coronavirus.
除去“钻石公主号”感染人群，日本本土目前有137个确诊病例。
Excluding the Princess Diamond, there are 137 confirmed cases in Japan.
美国约翰霍普金斯大学卫生安全中心资深学者阿梅什·阿达利亚（Amesh Adalja）对《中国慈善家》表示，日本政府对轮船进行整体隔离的措施不当，“他们应当让乘客下船接受检查。
Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at Johns Hopkins University's Center for Health and Safety, told Philanthropists in China, that the Japanese government's overall quarantine of ships was inadequate and that "they should disembark passengers for inspection."
”他指出，“人们现在对病毒非常恐慌，一些政府在过度反应。
"There is now a lot of panic about the virus and some governments are overreacting," he said.
这是没有科学依据的。
There is no scientific basis for this.
”曾担任多个国际组织交通和海事顾问的霍夫斯特拉大学教授让·保罗·罗德里格（Jean-Paul Rodrigue）则对《中国慈善家》表示，日本政府最初并未、也无法意识到事态的严重性。
Jean-Paul Rodrigue, a professor at the University of Hofstra, a former transportation and maritime adviser to several international organizations, told China Philanthropists that the Japanese government had not been, and could not be, aware of the gravity of the situation.
“他们只得到通报：船上有几人可能被感染。
"They were told only that there were a few people on board who might have been infected.
他们以为按照正常流程处理就可以。
They thought it was just a matter of following the normal procedure.
”罗德里格说。
"said Rodriguez.
虽然对日本政府措施的出发点判断不同，但专家们都认为，将人群隔离在船上造成了悲剧性的后果。
Although the starting point for the Japanese Government's measures was different, experts agreed that the isolation of people on board ships had tragic consequences.
“轮船将人群封闭起来，且人与人处于狭小的空间中、距离较近，相互接触也更多。
"Ships close people up, and people are in narrow spaces, close to each other and more in touch with each other.
”阿达利亚表示。
"said Adalia.
2月17日，日本厚生劳动大臣加藤胜信也在记者会上承认：“密闭空间或导致新一轮传染。
On February 17, Japanese Health Minister Kato Shinzo Kato also admitted at a press conference: "Confined space or lead to a new round of infection.
新病例的传染源已经不完全是那位80岁乘客。
The source of the new case is no longer the 80-year-old passenger.
有一些是由于在密闭空间里待了一段时间后，反复接触造成的。
Some are the result of repeated contact after spending some time in enclosed spaces.
”在隔离进行一周多之后，日本厚生劳动省开始允许部分自愿下船的“钻石公主号”乘客前往政府安排的住宿点接受隔离观察。
After more than a week of isolation, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare began to allow passengers from the MV Princess Diamond, who had left the vessel voluntarily, to be quarantined at government-arranged accommodation.
公主邮轮公司对《中国慈善家》表示，这一安排分批次进行，第一批优先下船的乘客主要为有基础疾病人士，包括健康状况欠佳的年长乘客。
The arrangement is being carried out in batches, with the first group of passengers to disembark mainly from basic illnesses, including elderly passengers in poor health, Princess Cruise told China Philanthropists.
据公主邮轮公司的信息，日本卫生机构透露该住宿点条件为独立客房和独立卫生间。
According to information from Princess Cruise, the Japanese health agency said the accommodation was in separate rooms and separate bathrooms.
住宿点暂无安排医务室，但可提供处方药。
No infirmary is available at the accommodation facilities, but prescription drugs are available.
若需要医疗救助，可转移至医院或医务室。
If medical assistance is required, it may be transferred to a hospital or infirmary.
住宿点餐食供应以日式盒饭为主，暂不提供西餐，无法根据每一位乘客的饮食偏好提供差异化选择。
Hostel meals are mainly Japanese-style boxed meals, Western food is not provided for the time being, according to the dietary preferences of each passenger to provide a differentiated choice.
公主邮轮公司对记者介绍，在14日和15日，首批12名乘客已经下船隔离。
Princess Cruise told reporters on the 14th and 15th, the first 12 passengers have been separated from the ship.
在当期通过病毒检测的67名乘客中，其余55人自愿选择继续留在船上。
Of the 67 passengers who passed the virus test in the current period, the remaining 55 voluntarily chose to remain on board.
100名医护，2000份处方药，7000个口罩2月17日，杨先生进入“隔离期”的第12天。
Mr. Yang entered the 12th day of quarantine on Feb. 17 with 100 medical attention, 2,000 prescription drugs and 7,000 face masks.
在这12天中，他两次收到口罩。
During these 12 days, he received two face masks.
2月14日，他和妻子均收到一个旅行套装，含有牙刷、牙膏、毛巾及6个一次性口罩。
On 14 February, he and his wife received a travel kit containing toothbrushes, toothpaste, towels and six disposable masks.
工作人员告诉杨先生，这个旅行套装是由香港政府提供。
Staff told Mr. Yang that the package was provided by the Hong Kong government.
杨先生对记者表示，他猜测这是香港政府与邮轮公司沟通后的结果，不清楚其他国家或地区的乘客是否也收到了类似的旅行套装。
Mr Yang told reporters he speculated that this was the result of communications between the Hong Kong government and cruise companies and that it was unclear whether passengers from other countries or regions had received similar packages.
此外，邮轮公司也派发过口罩，他和妻子各收到了两个。
In addition, the cruise company also distributed masks, he and his wife each received two.
公主邮轮公司对《中国慈善家》介绍，2月8日，日本政府对“钻石公主号”主动增援了7000个防护口罩。
The Princess Cruise Company told China Philanthropists that on Feb. 8, the Japanese government offered to reinforce 7,000 face masks on board the Princess Diamond.
同时，公司也为每位船员配备了N95口罩及个人防护装备。
The company also equipped each crew member with N95 masks and personal protective equipment.
“我们正努力补充船上的药品储备，这项工作同样刻不容缓。
"We are trying to replenish the ship's drug stockpile, and that is an urgent task," he said.
”该公司称，“钻石公主号”在过去几日陆续收到了约2000个处方药需求。
The company said it had received about 2,000 prescription drugs in the past few days.
为此，船方调配了45名药剂师，并开通专线电话，以支持药品的后续供应。
To this end, the ship deployed 45 pharmacists and opened a dedicated telephone line to support the follow-up supply of medicines.
截至2月13日，已有逾2000份处方药品被运送上船，由7位增援的药剂师进行药品分发。
As at 13 February, more than 2,000 prescription drugs had been shipped on board and distributed by seven additional pharmacists.
杨先生告诉《中国慈善家》，其他基本的生活用品需求可以与邮轮工作人员沟通后领取，他认为基本生活可以保证，邮轮公司也上传了很多新的电影供乘客消磨时间。
Mr. Yang told China Philanthropists that other basic necessities could be obtained by contacting the cruise crew, which, he said, would guarantee a basic livelihood. Cruise companies also uploaded many new movies to kill time with.
除要求对隔离地点的食品、医药供应等做出特殊安排外，世卫组织《船舶公共卫生事件管理手册》还规定政府和船方应安排特定人员进行隔离看护。
In addition to requiring special arrangements for food, medical supplies, etc., at the quarantine site, the WHO Manual for the Management of Public Health Incidents on Ships provides that the Government and the ship shall arrange for specific personnel to be placed in quarantine.
公主轮船公司对《中国慈善家》表示，在轮船靠岸横滨前，船上共有5名来自公主邮轮岸上卫生服务团队和当地公共卫生机构的医护人员。
Before the ship docked at Yokohama, there were five health workers from the Princess Cruise Onshore Health Service and local public health agencies, the company told China Philanthropists.
靠港隔离后，日本厚生劳动省已经增援了45名医生和55名护士上船。
The Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour has reinforced 45 doctors and 55 nurses with the help of the port.
针对“钻石公主号”上所有乘客和船员的检测规程也已由厚生劳动省制定实施。
The inspection protocol for all passengers and crew on board the Princess Diamond has also been formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
根据《船舶公共卫生事件管理手册》的规定，日本政府和船公司应对被定为非接触者的乘客提供关于识别和报告症状的建议，并且应要求乘客对自己的体温和症状进行被动自我监测（如只在感觉发烧时测量体温）或主动自我监测（如一天两次按时测量体温）。
In accordance with the provisions of the Ship Public Health Incident Management Manual, the Government of Japan and shipping companies should provide passengers classified as non-contact with advice on how to identify and report symptoms, and should require passengers to carry out passive self-monitoring of their body temperature and symptoms (e.g. temperature measurement only when feeling fever is felt) or active self-monitoring (e.g. regular temperature measurements twice a day).
杨先生对《中国慈善家》介绍，2月17日上午，两名身穿防护服的工作人员对他和妻子进行了咽拭子采样。
Mr. Yang told China Philanthropists that on the morning of February 17, two men in protective clothing took swabs and swabs from his wife.
这两名工作人员告诉杨先生，他们是日本政府派来的医生，检测结果需要等待两到三天。
The two staff members told Mr. Yang that they were doctors sent by the Government of Japan and that the test results would have to wait two to three days.
如果采样结果呈阴性，杨先生和妻子就可以下船返回香港。
If the results are negative, Mr Yang and his wife can disembark and return to Hong Kong.
此前的2月16日，同样有来自日本政府的医生对杨先生和妻子做了较为详细的健康问询，包括身体情况和用药史。
Earlier, on Feb. 16, doctors from the Japanese government made detailed health inquiries about Mr. Yang and his wife, including their physical condition and medication history.
此前有媒体报道称，邮轮公司分发了2000部手机给船上的乘客。
Earlier media reports said Cruise had distributed 2,000 cell phones to passengers on board.
杨先生告诉记者，如果感觉身体不适，可以通过这部手机上的指定软件与医护人员取得联系，说明自己的症状。
Mr. Yang told reporters that if he felt unwell, he could contact health-care professionals through the designated software on the phone to explain his symptoms.
此外，据公主邮轮公司2月8日通告，“钻石公主号”的舱房打扫服务规程已获得当地公共卫生部门的认可和批准。
In addition, the princess announced February 8, "Princess Diamond" cabin cleaning service procedures have been recognized and approved by the local public health department.
舱房打扫服务在乘客的固定户外活动时间进行，对舱房进行彻底清洁，包括换洗干净床单和毛巾。
The cabin cleaning service is carried out during the passenger's regular outdoor activities, and the cabin is thoroughly cleaned, including changing clean sheets and towels.
杨先生对《中国慈善家》表示，目前他和妻子情绪稳定，觉得船上的生活还是很充实的，对邮轮公司采取的措施表示理解。
Yang told China Philanthropists that he and his wife were in a stable mood and felt life on board was still very substantial and understood the steps taken by cruise companies.
“目前不能判断公司侵权”2月9日，杨先生收到了公主邮轮公司给全体乘客的“一封信”。
Mr. Yang received a "letter" from the Princess Cruise Company to all passengers on February 9.
根据信中的内容，杨先生此次购买船票的费用，以及退改飞机票所产生的手续费，均由邮轮公司承担。
According to the letter, the cost of Mr. Yang's ticket purchase, as well as the handling charges incurred in the cancellation of the flight, will be borne by the cruise company.
同时，因为此次旅行所产生的交通费用、酒店预订费用也会采取“实报实销”的方式进行赔偿。
At the same time, because the travel generated by the transport costs, hotel reservations will also take the "pay-as-you-go" approach.
在信中，邮轮公司表示，在2021年2月28日以前购买“钻石公主号”邮轮的船票，都可以享受与此次船票费用相等的补偿优惠措施。
In the letter, Cruise said it would be able to buy a ticket for the Princess of Diamonds until February 28, 2021, at a premium equal to the cost of the ticket.
2月9日，邮轮公司向乘客发信说明赔偿事宜。
On 9 February, Cruise sent a letter to the passengers explaining the compensation.
图/受访者提供有日本法律界人士对《中国慈善家》表示，根据日本侵权法相关规定，如果公主邮轮公司存在疏忽等情况导致病毒传播，有承担侵权责任的风险。
Figure / Interviewee: Japanese legal sources told China Philanthropists that there was a risk of tort liability under Japanese tort law if circumstances such as negligence on the part of Princess Cruise caused the virus to spread.
“但据我的了解，承运人已经按照日本政府和其他利益相关者的要求采取了行动，因此目前不能判断该公司侵权。
"But as I understand it, the carrier has acted at the request of the Japanese government and other stakeholders and therefore cannot judge the company's violations at this time."
”罗德里格也对《中国慈善家》指出，公主邮轮公司最初无法预料到疫情发展的结果。
Rodrigues also told China Philanthropists that Princess Cruise had initially been unable to predict the outcome of the outbreak.
“他们是善意地进入横滨港，并进行了通报。
"They entered Yokohama harbour in good faith and gave notice of it.
”罗德里格说，“当然，谁也不知道幕后他们会不会和日本政府进行谈判，对日本的开支进行一些补偿。
"Of course, no one knows whether behind the scenes they are going to negotiate with the Japanese government to make some compensation for Japan's spending.
但这些是非义务性的。
These are, however, optional.
”日本《感染症法》第37条到第40条规定，定点医疗机构必须收治指定感染症的确诊患者，而相关费用由政府承担。
Articles 37 to 40 of the Infection Act stipulate that designated medical institutions must treat confirmed patients with designated infections and that the related costs are borne by the Government.
日本法律界人士指出，该条款不存在国籍的限制，适用于“钻石公主号”上的所有患者。
The legal profession in Japan said there was no nationality limit and that it applied to all patients aboard the Princess Diamond.
此前，有日本官员对媒体透露称“对任何一国家而言，独自承担这一切，那是过重的负担。
Earlier, Japanese officials told the press: "It would be too much of a burden for any country to bear all this alone."
”但日本官员也承认，“关于国际游轮感染疫情，至目前还未确立国际负担准则。
But Japanese officials concede: "There is no international burden-sharing rule for international cruise ship infections.
”罗德里格对《中国慈善家》表示，目前国际上并没有关于船旗国或其他国家政府需要在此类事件中分担责任的规则。
Rodrigues told China Philanthropists that there are no international rules on the sharing of responsibilities between flag states or other governments in such matters.
“这其实算一个国内事件。
"This is really a domestic matter.
”罗德里格说，“日本还要承担港口、安保、检疫等开支……任何一个国家遇到同样的事件，都会承担这些费用。
"Japan will also have to bear the cost of ports, security and quarantine... any country that encounters the same thing will bear the cost," Rodrigues said.
”不过，罗德里格指出，各国如果安排包机撤离“钻石公主号”上的本国乘客，撤侨费用由相关国家承担。
However, Rodrigues notes that if countries arrange charter flights to evacuate their passengers from the Princess Diamond, the cost of doing so will be borne by the countries concerned.
目前，中国香港地区及美国、加拿大、意大利政府都已与日本政府就撤离“钻石公主号”上的本地区居民进行谈判。
So far, Hong Kong, China, and the governments of the United States, Canada and Italy have negotiated with the Japanese government to evacuate the region's inhabitants from the Princess Diamond.
公主邮轮公司对《中国慈善家》确认，公司于2月15日从美国驻日本大使馆处获悉，“钻石公主号”上包括乘客和员工在内的美国公民和永久居民在通过检疫后，将搭乘美国国务院安排的包机返回美国本土。
Princess Cruise confirmed to China Philanthropists that it had learned from the US Embassy in Japan on February 15 that US citizens and permanent residents, including passengers and employees, would return to the US mainland on a chartered plane arranged by the US State Department after passing quarantine.
目前，杨先生已经办理了2月4日返回香港机票的退票手续。
Mr Yang has now processed a refund for his return ticket to Hong Kong on February 4.
他告诉《中国慈善家》，自己目前担心的是公主邮轮公司没有说明具体赔偿的时间，只是说“一切等下船后才知道”。
He told China Philanthropists that what he was worried about was that the princess did not specify when the compensation would be paid, saying only that "everything would be known until it got off the ship."
截止发稿时，公主邮轮公司尚未回复《中国慈善家》关于赔偿时间的询问。
At the time of writing, Princess Cruise had not responded to a query from China Philanthropists about the timing of the compensation.
值班编辑：罗晓兰推荐阅读▼疫情“罗生门”：患者、医者、决策者的生死时刻李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相史上最大规模线上复课，直播还是不直播？这是个好问题。
Why don't we talk about the biggest-ever resumption of classes in North Korea's new foreign minister, live or not? That's a good question.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
确诊450多人，“钻石公主号”上发生了什么？。
More than 450 people diagnosed. What happened on the Princess Diamond?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "确诊450多人，“钻石公主号”上发生了什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with more than 450 people diagnosed, what happened to Princess Diamond?;
var msg_desc = "目前国际上并没有关于船旗国或其他国家政府需要在此类事件中分担责任的规则。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at present there are no international rules governing the sharing of responsibilities between flag States or other Governments in such incidents.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情“罗生门”：患者、医者、决策者的生死时刻',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情“罗生门”：患者、医者、决策者的生死时刻',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '疫情“罗生门”：患者、医者、决策者的生死时刻',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '​李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相',。
Mr Lee: Talking about the "irascible" new North Korean foreign minister & apos;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '​李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相',。
Mr Lee: Talking about the "irascible" new North Korean foreign minister & apos;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '史上最大规模线上复课，直播还是不直播？这是个好问题',。
Was it live or not at all at once? That's a good question and a good question.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '史上最大规模线上复课，直播还是不直播？这是个好问题',。
Was it live or not at all at once? That's a good question and a good question.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
