抗“疫”之下，企业复工如何安全破局？。
Against "epidemic", how can enterprises return to work safely?
权云。
Right cloud.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
暂停过后，安全重启“按照年前的计划，1月31日开工以后这批订单马上就出货了。
After the suspension, security reset "As planned before, the order will be shipped immediately after work begins on January 31."
现在不仅老订单推迟交付，其他业务也基本暂停了。
Not only is delivery of old orders delayed, but other business has largely been suspended.
”某机床零配件加工厂的老板林浩坦言，疫情对厂子最大的影响就是产能和物流，随之而来的就是日渐吃紧的资金链，“生产停了，但设备、地租和人工，每天都是开支!”他说，身边同在珠三角的其他中小制造业厂商情况都差不多，“今年的日子都不好过。
Lin Hao, owner of a machine-parts processing plant, admitted the epidemic's biggest impact on the plant was production capacity and logistics, followed by an increasingly tight capital chain. "Production stopped, but equipment, government rent and labour were expenses every day," he said.
”为防控疫情，避免人口大规模流动和聚集，今年的春节假期延长，企业和工厂复工也一再延迟。
This year's Spring Festival holiday has been extended and businesses and factories have been delayed repeatedly to control the epidemic and avoid mass migration and aggregation.
也许多年后，我们回想起2020开年这只突如其来的“黑天鹅”，首先想到的就是仿佛无形中被按下的暂停键，以及随后的缓慢重启。
Many years later, as we recall the sudden "black swan" of 2020, the first thing we think about is what seems to be an invisible pause and then a slow restart.
“活下来”截止到2月18日，全国新冠病毒肺炎累计确诊人数突破七万两千人，疫情依然严峻。
"Stay Alive" By February 18, the cumulative number of people diagnosed with Newcastle virus pneumonia nationwide had exceeded 72,000, and the epidemic was still serious.
好消息是，全国除湖北以外其他地区新增确诊病例已经14连降，并首次降至两位数。
The good news is that 14 new cases have been confirmed nationwide, except in Hubei province, dropping to double digits for the first time.
在疫情防控进入新阶段的同时，恢复生产、稳定经济成为当务之急。
In the new stage of epidemic prevention and control, it is imperative to restore production and stabilize the economy.
从数据来看，受此次疫情影响，消费和投资领域的经济指标均下滑严重。
Judging by the data, economic indicators for both consumption and investment have fallen sharply as a result of the epidemic.
尤其是餐饮、酒店旅游、影视娱乐、零售和交通运输等行业更是遭受重创。
In particular, catering, hotel tourism, film and television entertainment, retail and transportation industries have been particularly hard hit.
据统计，2019年春节档票房为58.59亿元。
According to statistics, the Spring Festival holiday box office in 2019 is 5.859 billion yuan.
今年春节档和贺岁档在临上院线前纷纷撤档，很多影院暂停营业，票房收入惨淡。
Spring Festival and New Year in front of the front row in front of the withdrawal, many cinemas temporarily closed, box office revenue bleak.
猫眼专业版数据显示，今年大年初一中国电影票房收入仅为181万元。
Cat Eye professional data show that this year's Chinese film box office revenue is only 1.81 million yuan.
欲哭无泪的不仅是院线，人口流动管控全方位影响着线下消费。
Crying is not only the courtyard line, the movement of people control all aspects of offline consumption.
全国范围内的众多大型商场关门，多家连锁餐饮品牌也宣布停业。
Across the country, many large shopping malls have closed down, and a number of chain restaurants have closed down.
西贝莜面村董事长贾国龙称，西贝莜面村在全国60多个城市拥有的400多家连锁店基本都已停业，仅存的外卖业务也只能达到正常营收的5%-10%。
naked oats village president jia guolong, xibei naked oats in more than 60 cities owned by the country's more than 400 chains have basically closed down, the only remaining take-out business can only reach the normal revenue of 5% - 10%.
往年春节，西贝的整体营收约在7亿-8亿元，今年几乎全部归零。
In the past Spring Festival, the overall revenue of Xibei in about 700-800 million yuan, this year almost all to zero.
清华大学经济管理学院金融系教授朱武祥、北京大学汇丰商学院管理学教授魏炜等学者联合调研发布《疫情对中小企业的影响及应对思考》的数据显示，31.08%的企业预计 2020年营业收入下降幅度超过50%，58.88%的企业下降 20%以上。
According to a joint study by Zhu Wuxiang, professor of finance at Tsinghua University and Wei Wei, professor of management at HSBC Business School at Peking University, 31.08% of enterprises expect a decline in business revenue of more than 50% in 2020 and 58.88% of enterprises by more than 20%.
同时，35.96%的企业只能维持 1 个月，能维持 6 个月及以上的企业只有 9.27%。
At the same time, 35.96 per cent of enterprises lasted only one month and only 9.27 per cent were able to sustain six months or more.
如果疫情持续半年以上，90%的企业很可能歇业或者破产。
If the epidemic continues for more than six months, 90% of businesses are likely to close or go bankrupt.
“活下去”，成为企业主面对2020年的首要目标。
"To live" has become the primary goal of business owners facing 2020.
桔子水晶酒店创始人吴海表示，政府不用操心市场信心问题，要做的工作是争取帮我们“活到”疫情结束那一天。
Wu Hai, founder of the Crystal Orange Hotel, said: 'The government doesn't have to worry about confidence. What we need to do is try to help us' survive 'the end of the epidemic.
截至目前，财政部、央行、商务部等多部委驰援，从财政补贴、贷款、税费、社保等多方面支持企业渡过疫情。
So far, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Commerce and other multi-ministerial assistance, from financial subsidies, loans, taxes, social security and other aspects to support enterprises through the epidemic.
“在当前的疫情环境下，对企业来讲，最重要的就是资金链问题。
"In the current epidemic environment, the most important thing for companies is the money chain.
”中国财政科学研究院院长刘尚希在接受相关采访时指出，实际上，在解决企业资金链问题上，财政金融已经出台了贷款贴息等多个政策，关键在于落实。
Liu Shanxi, dean of the China Institute of Fiscal Science, said in an interview that the key to solving the problem was to implement a number of policies, such as reducing interest rates on loans.
分级防控是关键当然，针对中小企业的优惠补贴政策只能解决燃眉之急。
Graded control is the key of course, the preferential subsidy policy for small and medium-sized enterprises can only meet the immediate needs.
疫情终将过去，生活还要继续，解决企业根本性生存问题还得靠复工复产，而疫情防控阶段的渐进式复工成为政府与企业共同面对的挑战。
In the end, the epidemic will be over, life will continue, the fundamental survival of enterprises to solve the problem of return to work, and the disease prevention and control phase of gradual resumption of work has become a common challenge for the Government and enterprises.
2月8日，国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情联防联控机制印发《关于切实加强疫情科学防控有序做好企业复工复产工作的通知》，要求统筹制定分类分批复工复产方案，尤其是对疫情防控、能源供应、交通物流等涉及重要国计民生的领域，要保障条件立即推动复工复产。
On February 8, the State Council should issue the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia by issuing the Notice on Effectively Improving the Scientific Prevention and Control of the Epidemic Disease and Resumption of Work for Enterprises Resumption of Work.
为符合条件的行业及企业加速复工创造有利环境。
Create an enabling environment for eligible industries and enterprises to accelerate the resumption of work.
2月10日，全国各地陆续开始复工，而疫情仍在继续，很多企业的复工之路依然艰难。
Work resumed throughout the country on 10 February, while the epidemic continued and many businesses continued to struggle to get back to work.
一家日化工厂的老板坦言，由于一些外地员工的老家封城封路，无法顺利返程，很多生产线都开不了工。
The owner of a daily chemical plant admitted that many production lines could not be opened due to the closure of the home town of some expatriate workers.
据了解，不少企业都面临阶段性用工难。
It is understood that many enterprises are facing difficulties in the use of stage.
除返工人员不足外，一些企业还面临着防护物资匮乏的问题，这直接影响到员工返工期间的安全健康。
In addition to the shortage of rework personnel, some enterprises also face a shortage of protective materials, which has a direct impact on the safety and health of employees during rework.
对此，国家发改委针对性提出，分批有序推动错峰返程返岗，同时通过错峰上班、弹性工作制等多种方式，降低工作场所人员密度，建立健全日常清洁、消毒、通风、体温监测制度。
To this end, the National Development and Reform Commission has put forward the idea of promoting staggered peaks returning to work in an orderly manner in batches, and reducing the density of workers in the workplace through various means, including staggered working hours and flexible working arrangements, and establishing and improving daily systems for cleaning, disinfection, ventilation and temperature monitoring.
2月12日，中共中央政治局常务委员会召开会议指出，非疫情防控重点地区要以实行分区分级精准防控为抓手，统筹疫情防控与经济社会秩序恢复。
On February 12, the Standing Committee of the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) said at its meeting that the key areas of non-epidemic prevention and control should focus on zoning and precise prevention and control.
国家行政学院公共管理教研部教授竹立家表示，我国防疫工作处于关键时期，但生产的恢复同样值得重视。
Zhu Lijia, professor of public administration department of the National School of Administration, said that China's epidemic prevention work is in a critical period, but the recovery of production is also worthy of attention.
目前我国各个地区之间甚至一个行政区域之内，疫情情况并不相同，分区分级防控是一个行政区域内部差异化防控的体现。
At present, the epidemic situation is not the same in every region of China and even within an administrative region.
在“分级防控”的思路下，针对员工返工期间的健康安全问题，发改委特别提出，分级分类提升核酸检测等快速筛查能力。
Under the idea of "graded control," the NDRC has put forward a classification system to improve the ability of rapid screening, such as nucleic acid testing.
用好用足核酸检测等科技手段，在确保安全的前提下，科学设定接受医学观察和居家隔离人群观察时间。
With good use of DNA testing and other technical means to ensure the safety of the premise of scientific observation and home isolation of the crowd observation time.
据悉，新型冠状病毒的体外诊断试剂有核酸、抗原和抗体诊断试剂等多种类型，目前除核酸试剂应用于新型冠状病毒感染病例的诊断，抗体诊断试剂也正在紧锣密鼓地研发中。
It is reported that the new coronavirus in vitro diagnostic reagents such as nucleic acid, antigen and antibody diagnostic reagent, in addition to nucleic acid reagent used in the diagnosis of new coronavirus infection cases, antibody diagnostic reagents are also being intensively developed.
2月12日，在广东省疫情防控工作发布会上，省卫健委称，全省发热门诊启动患者核酸检测排查，范围扩大至全员，对于到发热门诊就诊的所有患者，均要采集咽拭子进行核酸检测。
Feb. 12, in Guangdong Province, the prevention and control of the disease at the launch of the provincial health clinic, Nucleic Acid Screening, the province's heating clinic started the screening of patients, the scope of all patients to fever clinic, all patients to collect swabs for nucleic acid testing.
此外，山东省济南高新区新型冠状病毒肺炎处置工作领导小组也发布《关于开展核酸检测服务企业发展的通知》，明确企业可自愿为职工进行新型冠状病毒病原核酸检测。
In addition, the Leading Group for the Treatment of New Coronavirus Pneumonia in Jinan High-tech District, Shandong Province, also issued the Notice on the Development of Nucleic Acid Detection Service Enterprises, making it clear that enterprises can voluntarily test the coronavirus nucleic acid for their employees.
不可否认，在复工复产的关键时期，全员核酸检测排查已经成为守住防控疫情成果的一道关口。
Undeniably, in the critical period of resumption of production, full-strength nucleic acid detection and screening has become a key to the prevention and control of the epidemic.
尤其是针对一些新冠病毒感染者在较长时间内无明显症状的案例，除了医疗体系，还要引入具有专业水平的社会医疗机构进行排查。
In particular, some cases of new crown virus infection in a long period of time without obvious symptoms, in addition to the medical care system, but also the introduction of professional social and medical institutions for screening.
美国加州大学洛杉矶分校（UCLA）公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风在接受《中国慈善家》杂志专访时指出，最怕的就是没有症状的带菌者，如果有一个严密的复工防控条件的话，也可以避免复工以后疾病的流行。
In an interview with the Chinese philanthropist magazine, Zhang style, vice-dean and permanent professor of epidemiology at the University of California Los Angeles School of Public Health, pointed out that the biggest fear is asymptomatic carriers, which can also prevent the disease from returning to work if they have strict conditions for returning to work.
“我们在2月9日推出了‘疫情期间员工复工核酸检测解决方案’。
"On February 9, we launched the Solution for Detection of RNA by Employees during the Epidemic.
”爱康集团相关负责人表示，“集团旗下医疗机构将安排并组织已纳入政府指定的新型冠状病毒核酸检测的第三方检测机构，在客户指定的地点严格按照国家相关要求给员工采集咽拭子样本，相关服务流程会根据各地政府的要求来制定。
"The group's medical institutions will arrange and organise third-party testing facilities that have been included in the government-designated testing of new coronavirus nucleic acid," said Aikang's director.
”此前，多地政府发文倡议和鼓励第三方检测机构参与核酸检测，为疫情防控提供技术支撑和服务保障。
Earlier, many governments sent communications initiatives and encouraged third-party testing agencies to participate in nucleic acid testing to provide technical support and service guarantees for disease prevention and control.
有业内人士认为，由具有专业优势的第三方检测机构为企业提供检测，降低由于员工交叉感染导致停工停产的风险，是当前分层分级别防控的有效措施。
Some industry insiders believe that the professional advantage of third-party testing organizations to provide testing for enterprises, to reduce the risk of work stoppage due to cross-infection of staff, is currently an effective measure of hierarchical prevention and control.
据悉，爱康集团已联合各地政府在当地指定的第三方检测机构提供“疫情期间员工复工核酸检测解决方案”，通过核酸检测帮助企业“早发现、早隔离”潜在病毒感染者，降低企业聚集性感染风险，目前已在多个城市落地。
It is reported that Ekang Group has joined local government-designated third-party testing agencies to provide "Nucleic acid testing solutions during the epidemic," to help enterprises "early detection, early isolation" of potential virus infection, reduce the risk of corporate agglomeration infection, has now landed in a number of cities.
“即使世界荒芜如瘟疫笼罩下的小城奥兰，只要有一丝温情尚在，绝望就不至于吞噬人心。
"Even if the world deserted the small town of Oran under pestilence, as long as there is a trace of warmth, despair will not devour the people.
”就像加缪在《鼠疫》里所说，疫情终将过去，春天即将到来。
As Camus said in Plague, the outbreak will eventually pass and spring will come.
分级防护体系下，多方正在联合筑起“防护墙”，为企业复工保障安全。
Under the graded protection system, many parties are jointly constructing the "protective wall" to ensure the safety of the enterprises.
本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场。
This article only represents the author's point of view, does not represent this print position.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗“疫”之下，企业复工如何安全破局？。
Against "epidemic", how can enterprises return to work safely?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗“疫”之下，企业复工如何安全破局？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "暂停过后，安全重启";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Security reinstated & quot; after a pause.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
