拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周 |《财经》封面。
Saving Wuhan: The toughest three weeks of service at Caijing ever since the city was sealed.
刘以秦 等。
Liu Yiqin and so on.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
一座人口过千万的超级大都市在突降灾疫后陷入休克，然后艰难走出混乱无望财经封面。
A mega-metropolis with a population of more than 10 million people was thrown into shock after the disaster, and then struggled out of chaos and hopeless financial cover.
创意设计/黎立文|《财经》特派武汉记者 刘以秦 信娜 王小《财经》记者 房宫一柳 黎诗韵 俞琴 王丽娜 王静仪 陈亮 李斯洋 李皙寅特约撰稿 李星郡编辑| 马克 宋玮 朱弢 谢丽容 施智梁空荡荡的大街、戴口罩的面孔、封闭的居民小区、被阻断的城际交通、看不见摸不着又似乎无处不在的危险……对30岁以上的中国人来说，2020年的冬末春初，时光仿佛倒流至17年前。
Caijing & amp; Caijing & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2003年冬春至仲夏，源自广东的SARS（严重急性呼吸综合征，又称非典型肺炎）自南向北袭击了中国，香港、广东、北京、山西、台湾等地被世界卫生组织（WHO）列为疫区。
From spring to mid-summer 2003, SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, also known as SARS) from Guangdong hit China from south to north, and Hong Kong, Guangdong, Beijing, Shanxi and Taiwan were designated as epidemic areas by the World Health Organization (WHO).
根据WHO的统计，中国内地共有5327人感染SARS，349人死亡；中国香港共有1775人感染，300人死亡；中国台湾共有665人感染，180人死亡。
According to the World Health Organization, 5,327 people were infected with SARS in China, 349 died; 1,775 people were infected and 300 died in Hong Kong, China; and 665 people were infected and 180 died in Taiwan, China.
SARS很快蔓延到中国以外的26个国家，新加坡和加拿大也被WHO列入疫区，全球共有8422人感染，919人死亡。
SARS soon spread to 26 countries outside China, and Singapore and Canada were included in the WHO list, with 8,422 people infected and 919 dead worldwide.
2004年1月，中国启用传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统（网络直报系统），覆盖全国卫生机构，不明原因肺炎是其监测、报告的重点之一。
In January 2004, China launched the Information System for Surveillance of Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies (SIRPIS), which covers health institutions across the country. Pneumonia, an unknown cause, is one of the focus of its monitoring and reporting.
按照规定，各级医院发现传染性病例后，要在这套系统里第一时间上报，位于北京的中国疾控中心可同步看到上报信息。
According to the regulations, hospitals at all levels of infectious cases, to be reported in the system at the first time, the China CDC in Beijing can synchronize the reported information.
2019年3月4日，全国政协委员、中国科学院院士、中国疾控中心主任高福在接受金羊网记者专访时表示：与SARS类似病毒可能随时出现，但国家传染病监控网络建设得很好，中国不会再出现“SARS类似事件”。
Viruses similar to SARS may appear at any time, but the country's infectious disease surveillance network is well established and there will be no "SARS-like incidents" in China, Gao Fu, a member of the CPPCC, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and director of the China CDC, told reporters on Thursday.
然而九个月后，新型冠状病毒肺炎（下称“新冠肺炎”）便凶猛来袭。
However, nine months later, the new coronavirus pneumonia (hereafter referred to as "New Coronavirus Pneumonia") was ferocious.
2019年12月初，首例新冠肺炎患者在武汉发病，一个多月后，疫区中心武汉市被迫“封城”。
In early December 2019, the first case of new crown pneumonia in Wuhan, more than a month later, the center of the epidemic area Wuhan was forced "closed the city."
国家卫生健康委员会数据显示，截至2020年2月14日24时，中国内地累计共有66492人确诊新冠肺炎，病亡1523人。
As of 2400 hours on February 14, 2020, a total of 6,6492 new cases of pneumonia and 1,523 deaths had been diagnosed in the Mainland, according to the National Health Council.
其中湖北累计确诊54406人，病亡1457人。
A total of 54406 cases and 1,457 deaths were diagnosed in Hubei Province.
截至2月14日，武汉一城，累计确诊37914人，病亡1123人。
As of February 14, Wuhan, a city, a total of 37,914 confirmed, 1,123 patients died.
1957年诺贝尔文学奖得主阿尔贝·加缪的代表作《鼠疫》里有这样一句话：“一个人能在鼠疫和生活的赌博中所赢得的全部东西，就是知识和记忆。
Albert Camus, the 1957 Nobel Prize winner in literature, wrote in The Plague: "All one can win from plague and the gambling of life is knowledge and memory.
”武汉在2020年初留下的群体性记忆，将成为中国下一个十年的开篇。
Wuhan's collective memory in early 2020 will be the beginning of China's next decade.
史无前例的“封城”1月23日凌晨2时，武汉市疫情防控指挥部发布公告，自当日10时起，全市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
At 2 a.m. on January 23, the Wuhan city epidemic prevention and control command issued a notice, since 10: 00, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operations suspended; the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
恢复时间另行通告。
Recovery time will be announced separately.
这一“封城”措施被市民理解为——能进不能出。
This "closure" measure is understood by citizens to mean that they can't get in or out.
一场史无前例的人类与病毒的战役就此展开。
This is the beginning of an unprecedented human and virus campaign.
这不是一次普通的流行性传染病，也不是17年前SARS在中国内地的重演，而是人类历史上第一次在和平时期封锁一座千万级人口的超大城市。
This is not an ordinary epidemic, nor is it a repeat of SARS 17 years ago in China's interior, but the first time in human history that a mega-city of 10 million people has been blockaded in peacetime.
紧随而至的，是医疗资源重新分配、城市生活几近停摆、数月经济发展暂时停滞。
This was followed by a redistribution of health resources, a near-standstill in urban life, and months of temporary stagnation in economic development.
2020年1月11日，工作人员在武汉华南海鲜批发市场西区进行检查。
January 11, 2020, staff in Wuhan South China Wholesale Seafood Market Western Area for inspection.
图/法新处于疫情漩涡中心的武汉，是中国中部的工商业中心，长江穿城而过。
Wuhan, the center of the epidemic vortex, is the industrial and commercial center of central China, crossing the Yangtze River.
武汉也是中国内陆最大的水陆空交通枢纽和长江中游航运中心，其高铁网辐射大半个中国，是华中地区唯一可直航全球五大洲的城市。
Wuhan is also the largest inland water, land and air transportation hub and the center of the Yangtze River. It radiates most of China's high-speed rail network and is the only city in central China that can sail directly to the five continents.
一些国外媒体将武汉称为“中国的芝加哥”，因为这里也有日渐衰落的钢铁产业和中国最大的大学城，约100万人在这里上学。
Some foreign media have dubbed Wuhan the "Chicago of China" because it also has a declining steel industry and China's largest university town, where about 1m people go to school.
武汉还有许多大型汽车厂，为通用、日产、本田等全球品牌生产汽车，也可以算是“中国的底特律”。
Wuhan also has many large auto factories, producing cars for global brands such as General Motors, Nissan and Honda, or "Detroit of China."
此次新冠病毒爆发在“九省通衢”的武汉，又恰逢春节带来大规模人口迁徙，这成为许多流行病学家和亿万民众共同的噩梦。
The outbreak of the virus in Wuhan, a thoroughfare of nine provinces, coincides with the Chinese New Year's massive migration, a nightmare shared by many epidemiologists and hundreds of millions of people.
当地政府解释说：“（封城能）有效切断病毒传播途径，坚决遏制疫情蔓延势头，确保人民群众生命安全和身体健康。
"[Sealing the city] effectively cuts off the transmission of the virus, resolutely curbs the spread of the epidemic and ensures people's lives and health," the local government explained.
”中外医学专家对封锁武汉的规模一度感到震惊，怀疑当地政府是否反应过度。
Chinese and foreign medical experts were once shocked by the scale of the Wuhan blockade and wondered if the local government had overreacted.
因为即便在17年前SARS最为肆虐期间，北京市也未采取如此力度的封锁措施，而是选择将病患集中到北京郊区小汤山的一所临时建设的医院进行隔离诊治。
Even during the height of SARS 17 years ago, Beijing did not impose such a severe blockade, preferring instead to concentrate patients in a makeshift hospital in the Beijing suburb of Xiaotangshan.
这反映了这场疾病的未知、重大和可怕——以至于政府愿意付出前所未有的巨大代价。
This reflects the unknown, magnitude, and horror of the disease - such that governments are willing to pay an unprecedented price.
2020年1月17日，医护人员将患者送至武汉金银潭医院。
On 17 January 2020, medical staff took the patient to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
摄影/无畏截至1月23日宣布“封城”当天，武汉累计确诊新冠肺炎571例，情况看起来并没有那么糟糕；但仅仅三周之后的2月14日，武汉累计确诊37914例！武汉“封城”的讯息仿佛警钟，让原本对这场疫情知之甚少或者不以为然的全国各地中国人陆续戴上了口罩，严阵以待。
Wuhan confirmed 571 cases of pneumonia on Jan. 23, but just three weeks later, 37,914 cases were diagnosed in Wuhan, and the news of the city's closure served as a wake-up call for Chinese around the country, who otherwise knew little or nothing about the outbreak, to put on face masks.
武汉“封城”当日，在为数不多的选择机会面前，数百万人走向了自己最相信的方向。
Wuhan "closed the city" that day, in the face of a few choices, millions of people to their most trusted direction.
不少人连夜逃离武汉。
Many people fled Wuhan overnight.
前往荆州的市民刘林，在高速路上最高飙到时速160公里，中途一刻也不休息。
Liu Lin, a citizen of Jingzhou, sped up to 160 kilometers per hour on the highway without a moment's rest.
很快，出城高速车满为患，走得晚的已难以挪动。
Soon it is full of cars overflowing the city, making it too late to move.
1月23日上午8时30分，汉口火车站的售票柜台只开了两个，一些武汉市民直接拖着行李箱，到火车站售票厅现场买票出城。
At 8: 30 a.m. on January 23, only two ticketing counters were opened at Hankou Railway Station. Some Wuhan city residents towed their suitcases directly to the ticket office of the railway station to buy tickets and exit the city.
据《财经》记者不完全统计，1月23日0时到10时，武汉至少发出列车251列，北到哈尔滨，南达深圳，东到上海，西达成都，至少数十万人通过火车四散全国。
According to Caijing News, between 0000 and 1000 hours on January 23, Wuhan will issue at least 251 trains, reaching Harbin in the north, Shenzhen in the south, Shanghai in the east and Dudu in the west, scattering at least hundreds of thousands of people across the country by train.
上午10时，“封城”开始，武警站成一列，围住汉口火车站，只许旅客出站不许进站。
At 10 a.m., "closed the city" began, armed police stood in a line, surrounded Hankou Railway Station, only passengers are not allowed to leave the station.
一位登上了末班火车的人称，他看到很多没买到票的人哭了起来。
A man who boarded the last train said he saw many people cry when they didn't get tickets.
航空公司也彻夜难眠，它们取消了大部分涉及武汉的航班，但依据“软着陆”原则以及涉及联程航班等原因，最后一班飞机在1月24日12时55分离开武汉，目的地广州。
Airlines stayed up all night, canceling most flights involving Wuhan, but the last flight left Wuhan at 1255 hours on January 24, heading for Guangzhou, on the basis of the "soft landing" principle and involving connecting flights.
随即，年旅客吞吐量近3000万人次的武汉天河机场关闭离港通道。
Immediately, the annual passenger throughput of nearly 30 million Wuhan Tianhe Airport closed the port access.
下午2时，湖北省内多个高速公路开始封闭，一些“漏洞”被陆续堵上：龚家岭、小军山、汉南、北湖、花山、柏泉、青龙、西湖站入口封闭；京港澳高速武汉西、武汉北、蔡甸、永安收费站口封闭；其他出武汉市的高速公路口也开始封闭。
At 2 p.m., a number of highways in Hubei Province began to close, and a number of "loopholes" were blocked: Gong Jialing, Xiaojun Mountain, Hannan, North Lake, Huashan, Bai Quan, Qinglong and West Lake Stations.
1月26日武汉市市长周先旺通报说，武汉常住人口1100多万，户籍人口990多万，流动人口近500万，截至当天约有500多万人离开，还有900多万留在武汉。
Wuhan resident population of more than 11 million, household registration population of more than 9.9 million, mobile population nearly 5 million, as of the same day about more than 5 million people left, and more than 9 million remained in Wuhan.
有人逃离，也有人逆行回到武汉。
Some fled, others returned retrograde to Wuhan.
武汉市某定点对口医院护士张旭原本已经回到老家，准备和家人度过新年。
Zhang Xu, a nurse at a designated hospital in Wuhan, had returned to her hometown to spend the New Year with her family.
1月23日“封城”当天，这位20多岁的女孩连夜赶回武汉，司机将她送至武汉进城高速前的服务站，她摸黑走了很长的路，背着行李翻了几道拦路点。
The 20-year-old girl returned to Wuhan overnight and was taken by the driver to a service station before Wuhan on the urban expressway. She made the long journey in the dark, turning over several roadblocks with her luggage on her back.
入城后，张旭还在路边等了几个小时的车。
After entering the city, Zhang Xu waited for hours by the roadside.
张旭入城时被相关人员拦下，工作人员问她回去做什么？“我是护士，我必须要回去。
When Zhang Xu was stopped when she entered the city, the staff asked her what she was going to do.
”她答。
'she replied.
医护人员对生命的责任感超出了对未知的恐惧。
Health care workers have a greater sense of responsibility for life than fear of the unknown.
对许多普通武汉市民，去留从来不是一个问题，因为即使疫情严峻，武汉也仍然是他们的家。
For many ordinary Wuhan people, going and staying has never been a problem, because even if the epidemic is severe, Wuhan is their home.
1月23日凌晨，王琛从武汉开车前往湖南衡阳出差，在路上收到了武汉即将“封城”的短信通知，他立刻掉头返回。
In the early morning hours of January 23, Wang Chen drove from Wuhan to Hengyang, Hunan Province on a business trip. On his way, he received a text message from Wuhan, which was going to be closed.
王琛经营一家珍珠岩工厂，厂址在河南信阳，距离武汉200公里，一年的营收超过1亿元。
Wang Chen runs a perlite factory in Xinyang, Henan Province, 200 kilometers away from Wuhan, with annual revenue of more than 100 million yuan.
王琛回来，是因为放不下家里人。
Wang Chen came back because he couldn't let his family go.
他还想为抗击疫情做点事情，后来他加入了首汽约车在武汉的志愿者司机团队，为有需要的人提供出行服务，包括运送物资、接送医护人员。
He also wanted to do something about the epidemic, then joined a team of AVC volunteer drivers in Wuhan to provide transportation for those in need, including transporting supplies and medical personnel.
回到武汉后，王琛发现多数超市的蔬菜、84消毒液已被抢购一空；等待加油的汽车排了一条街的队；而发热门诊已经人满为患、一床难求。
Back in Wuhan, Wang Chen found that most supermarket vegetables, 84 disinfectant has been sold out; waiting for refuelling cars lined up in a queue; and the fever clinic was already overcrowded and difficult to find.
《财经》记者在“封城”当日曾致电武汉所有定点医院，包括第一批的3家医院：汉口医院、红十字会医院、第七医院，以及第二批的4家医院：第四医院西区、第九医院、武昌医院、第五医院，只有红十字会医院尚有床位，其他定点医院各自的几百个床位都已住满。
On the same day, Caijing called all the designated hospitals in Wuhan, including the first three hospitals: Hankou Hospital, Red Cross Hospital, Seventh Hospital, and the second batch of four hospitals: the Western, Ninth, Wuchang and Fifth Hospitals.
2020年2月6日，武汉市蔡甸区人民医院的隔离病房。
February 6, 2020, Wuhan Cai Den District People's Hospital isolation ward.
摄影/陈卓医疗防护物资严重不足是当时武汉各医院的普遍问题。
The serious shortage of medical protective materials was a common problem in Wuhan hospitals at that time.
第三医院成为定点医院时，没有储备足够的防护物资，《财经》记者1月23日下午电话联系该医院时，医生只有少量口罩、医用帽，几乎没有防护服和护目镜。
When hospital No. 3 became a designated hospital, it did not have enough protective materials in reserve. When Caijing called the hospital on the afternoon of January 23, the doctor had only a small number of masks, medical caps and few protective clothing and goggles.
武汉科技大学附属医院则称，医生只有外科口罩可以用，没有隔离衣。
Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated hospital said that doctors only surgical masks can be used, there is no isolation clothing.
只有发热门诊和隔离区有N95口罩，他们正在等待物资支援。
Only the fever clinic and the exclusion zone have N95 masks, and they are waiting for material support.
湖北省人民医院的一名护士告诉《财经》记者，原本与疫情毫不相关的眼科诊室，已被开辟成隔离带，住满了感染的医护人员。
A nurse at Hubei People's Hospital told Caijing that the ophthalmology room, which had nothing to do with the outbreak, had been opened up as an isolation zone filled with infected medical staff.
但医院未曾料到，一床难求、物资紧缺的难题延续了更长时间。
But the hospital did not expect, a difficult bed, the material shortage of the problem lasted longer.
1月23日下午，武汉下起了小雨。
On the afternoon of January 23, it began to rain in Wuhan.
市民周学下楼买药，发现药店已经关门。
Citizen Zhou Xue went downstairs to buy medicine and found the drugstore was closed.
但他家楼下的棋牌室仍然热闹，人们豪爽地推牌，几乎没有人戴口罩。
But the chessboard room downstairs was still alive, people were bravely pushing cards and almost no one was wearing a mask.
当时周学想的还是何时举报楼下的棋牌室，春节之后何时上班。
Zhou thought about when to report the chess room downstairs and when to go to work after the Spring Festival.
但之后的三周对他而言却无比漫长——父亲因为感染新冠病毒重症住院，奶奶没能挺过去，已经去世。
But the next three weeks were long enough for him - his father was hospitalized with Newcastle virus, and Grandma was unable to survive and died.
武汉“封城”后，湖北其他城市陆续“封城”。
Wuhan "closed the city", Hubei other cities successively "closed the city."
截至1月28日晚，除神农架林区外，湖北各市均在不同程度上暂停了火车、民航等对外交通以及市区公共交通。
By the evening of January 28, all Hubei cities except Shennongjia forest areas had suspended, to varying degrees, external transportation such as trains, civil aviation and public transport in urban areas.
最初，很多市民认为，这只是一场被打断的春节。
At first, many citizens thought it was just a interrupted Spring Festival.
直到“封城”后，爆发的病情和停摆的交通设施提醒市民：无论是医生、病患、司机还是其他城市中的平凡一员，灾难对所有人都极其公平，与所有人都息息相关。
Until the "closure" of the city, outbreaks of disease and stalled transportation reminded citizens that, whether they were doctors, patients, drivers or ordinary citizens in other cities, disasters were fair to all and relevant to all.
随后的事态表明，封锁武汉很大程度阻止了病毒向全国、全球蔓延。
Subsequent events have shown that the blockade of Wuhan has largely prevented the virus from spreading throughout the country and the world.
但对于武汉来说，经历了前所未有的三周后，它已经不堪重负。
But for Wuhan, after an unprecedented three weeks, it is already overburdened.
隔离对社会运转带来的影响太大，很难长期坚持，但新冠病毒的不可知和不确定，又让人们必须坚持。
The effects of isolation on the functioning of society are too great to be sustained in the long run, but the uncertainty and uncertainty of the new crown virus make it imperative.
截至2月14日，武汉“封城”已经三周，政府投入了大量物资、人员和资金，但医疗体系仍在努力追赶不断攀升的病患；尽管已经封锁了机场、高铁、国道、省道、村道，但还是有人有办法避开封锁与家人团聚；尽管人们想方设法募集口罩、防护服和护目镜，依然有大量医护人员缺乏基础的防护装备；尽管舆论和专家都在强调这次疫情的高传染性，依然有无数勇敢者自愿前往一线支援抗疫。
As of February 14, Wuhan "closed" three weeks, the government has invested a lot of material, personnel and funds, but the health-care system is still trying to catch up with the rising patients, despite the blockade of airports, high-speed rail, national, provincial and village roads.
奋力求救、守望相助的市民“封城”后，还有900多万市民留在武汉。
More than 9 million people remained in Wuhan after struggling to rescue and keep watch over the city.
2月14日数据显示，武汉累计确诊37914人，病亡1123人，相当于每240人左右就有一例确诊患者。
On February 14, Wuhan confirmed 37,914 cases and 1,123 deaths, equivalent to about one confirmed case for every 240 people.
“封城”之后，武汉几成空城。
After "sealing the city," Wuhan became empty city.
《财经》看到，整座城市的主干道上很少有车辆，最繁华的中心景点也见不到车和人，只有120急救车在家庭和医院之间穿梭。
Caijing said there were few cars on the city's main roads, no cars or people in the most popular attractions, and only 120 ambulances shuttled between homes and hospitals.
在这座空旷的大城市里，人们囤积着食物和药品，在家里隔离。
In this large, empty city, people hoard food and medicine and keep their homes isolated.
家住武汉黄陂区六指街某村庄的冉女士，已经两个星期没有吃到新鲜蔬菜了，她每天吃的是腊鱼腊肉，“太油腻了”。
Ran, a village of Liuzhi Street, Huangpi District, Wuhan, has not had any fresh vegetables for two weeks. She eats bacon of bacon every day.
为了吃到蔬菜，她打过社区、街道甚至发改委的电话，最后向媒体求助。
She hit communities, streets and even the NDRC to get vegetables, then turned to the media for help.
蔬菜供应点在街道，冉女士说很多居民不敢坐应急车过去，因为听说车里载过发热病人。
Vegetable supply point in the street, Ms. Ran said many residents did not dare to take the emergency bus, because they heard that there had been fever patients in the car.
快递也送不进来，更别提同城配送，冉女士希望蔬菜供应下沉，但街道回复说：“没有办法”。
CourierExpress couldn't be delivered, let alone with Ran, who wanted vegetables to sink, but the street replied, "There's nothing we can do."
沈先生在中南医院附近几公里处开了一家牛肉汤店。
Mr. Shen opened a beef soup shop a few kilometers from the Zhongnan Hospital.
他是河南信阳人，本来准备大年三十晚上回老家，但是封城了，只好和家人留了下来。
He is Henan Xinyang people, originally prepared to return home on New Year's Eve, but closed the city, and had to stay with their families.
前几天，他重新开了外卖店，因为外卖平台突然“不抽点”了。
The other day, he reopened the takeout shop as the takeout platform suddenly "stopped."
每单能“赚几块钱”，但得冒很大的风险。
You can make a few bucks a day, but you have to take a big risk.
沈先生安了两道门，把外卖放到门外的箱子里，全程戴着口罩和一次性手套。
Mr. Shen installed two doors and put the takeout in a box outside the door, wearing a mask and disposable gloves throughout.
系统还自动把来自医院的订单都划掉了。
The system also automatically crossed out orders from the hospital.
普通人的日子太窘迫了。
The lives of ordinary people are too cramped.
“封城”后，客人没了，原来的几十份订单掉到只有几单。
After the closure of the city, no guests, the original dozens of orders fell into only a few.
要钱的地方却到处都是。
But everywhere you ask for money.
每天几百块钱的房租、欠下的贷款、开店前期的20万元成本、一家人的吃吃喝喝……他刚交的几万元房租还是从别处借来的。
A few hundred dollars a day for rent, a loan owed, an upfront cost of $200,000, food and drink for a family... his new tens of thousands of dollars rent was borrowed elsewhere.
此前他一直在江苏做生意，经朋友介绍，几个月前才来武汉，没想到遇到疫情。
He had been doing business in Jiangsu until a few months ago, introduced by friends, did not expect to encounter an epidemic situation.
经济压力之下，沈先生顾不得害怕了，他只希望能尽快回家，“以后再也不敢踏入湖北（做生意）”。
Under economic pressure, Mr. Shen was scared. All he wanted was to get home as soon as possible and "never set foot in Hubei again."
如果说，生活用品的紧缺只是降低了人们的生活水准，面对急速蔓延的疫情，整个城市医疗资源的相对匮乏，则可能是致命的。
If we say that the shortage of daily necessities only reduced people's living standards, in the face of a rapidly spreading epidemic, the relative scarcity of medical resources throughout the city can be fatal.
刘白的婆婆是一位癌症患者，本来大年初七（1月31日）要去武汉人民医院治疗，现在却无限延期。
Liu Bai's mother-in-law, a cancer patient, had to go to Wuhan People's Hospital for treatment on January 31, but it has been postponed indefinitely.
有限的医疗资源几乎都集中在新冠肺炎病人上了。
The limited medical resources are focused almost exclusively on patients with pneumonia in the new crown.
和她婆婆一样的病人还有很多，有的身上插了注射管留置针，都要去暂时拔掉。
Like her mother-in-law, there are still many patients, some with injection tube indwelling needle, have to be temporarily pulled out.
刘白说，婆婆甲减（甲状腺功能减退症）的药也没有了，医生说没有办法，只能自己去找。
Liu said her mother-in-law's medication for hypothyroidism was gone, and doctors said there was nothing he could do but look for it.
她去了好多药房，才幸运地找到两盒。
She went to a lot of pharmacies and luckily found two boxes.
她在2019年12月30日就买了第一批口罩，那时候病例少，且官方一直说可防可控，但是2020年1月20日，钟南山院士来武汉调研后公开强调，“肯定人传人”，她才明白疫情的严重。
She bought her first masks on December 30, 2019, when the number of cases was low and officials said they could be controlled, but on January 20, 2020, when academicians came to Wuhan to do research, she publicly stressed that "positive person-to-person", she understood the severity of the outbreak.
2020年1月20日，钟南山称新型冠状病毒“肯定‘人传人’。
January 20, 2020, Zhong Nan Shan called the new coronavirus "certainly 'person to person'.
”图/新华小区会每天发体温排查表，下午发情况通报，刘白会去追问发热病人为什么还在家里隔离。
The graph / Xinhua community will issue a daily body temperature checkout form and an afternoon notice. Liu will ask why the febrile patients are still isolated at home.
冉女士反问《财经》记者，“不是说入户排查98.6％，怎么我们还没被排查？”“医生明确说了，父亲是新型冠状病毒，但因为没有检测盒无法确诊。
Ran asked Caijing reporter, t mean that 98.6 percent of us have not been screened indoors yet The doctor has made it clear that my father is a new coronavirus, but he cannot be diagnosed without a detection box
”孙晨在1月底对《财经》记者说。
"Sun Chen told Caijing at the end of January.
孙晨的父亲年前有些咳嗽发烧，家人没太放在心上。
Sun Chen's father had a cough and a fever a few years ago.
等到大年初二（1月25日），“封城”没几天，父亲就咳出了血。
When the New Year's Day (January 25), "closed the city" a few days, his father coughed up blood.
孙晨慌忙将父亲送去华中科技大学同济医院做检查，肺CT结果显示感染。
Sun Chen rushed his father to the Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology for an examination.
“我没有想到这件事情会落在自己家身上。
"I didn't think this was going to happen to my family.
”孙晨说，她的父母从来没有去过武汉的海鲜市场，只是在小区附近菜市场买菜。
"Sun Chen said her parents had never been to the seafood market in Wuhan, but were only buying vegetables at a nearby vegetable market.
他们一家直到“封城”那天才戴上口罩。
The family did not wear masks until the day of the "closure."
孙晨父亲已经70岁，妈妈66岁，两人都有高血压、糖尿病等基础病，只能在家隔离。
Sun Chen's father is 70 years old and his mother is 66 years old. Both of them have basic diseases such as hypertension and diabetes and can only be isolated at home.
“我一定要把父亲送到医院病床上去。
I must take my father to the hospital bed.
”孙晨说。
"said Sun Chen.
床位意味着什么？因为没有床位，家住汉阳的李开蒙眼看着父亲在家里艰难呼吸了一晚上，最终咽气。
What does a bed mean? Without a bed, Li Kaimong, who lives in Hanyang, watched as his father struggled to breathe at home all night and finally died.
他的父亲生前是一位军队转业干部，是家里的顶梁柱。
His father was a veteran army cadre, is the pillar of the family.
父亲不幸去世后，殡仪馆的车过了十多个小时才到，他们也很忙，一趟得拉好几个。
After the tragic death of his father, the funeral parlour car did not arrive for more than 10 hours, they were also very busy, had to pull several.
家在武汉的铁路职工陈力的奶奶，也因为没有病床，在汉口医院的门诊大厅坐了三天，最后没有撑住，抢救无效去世。
The grandmother of Chen Li, a railway worker in Wuhan, also sat for three days in the out-patient hall of Hankou Hospital because of lack of beds.
这些病人在病逝前并未确诊，因此他们不计入“确诊死亡”病例。
These patients were not diagnosed before they died, so they were not counted as "confirmed deaths."
截至2月初，《财经》记者采访十多位身处武汉的病患家庭，多数家庭全家感染，相互搀扶着病危的老人、孕妇辗转各家医院，为生死一线的家人寻求床位。
By the beginning of February, Caijing had interviewed more than a dozen families in Wuhan. Most of the families had contracted the disease, helped the elderly and pregnant women move from one hospital to another, and sought beds for their families in the first place.
据《财经》记者了解，一般只有两种路径可被收治入院。
According to Caijing reporter understands, only two kinds of route can be admitted to hospital commonly.
一是靠社区排队，病患先去社区交肺部CT、血常规报告，社区上报街道，再根据轻重缓急对接医院的新开床位，病人需要拿着住院单入院；二是去有核酸试纸的定点医院排队，48小时拿结果，确诊后就不能被医院拒收。
First, the patients go to the community to exchange lung CT, blood routine reports, the community reported to the street, then docking hospital beds according to priorities, patients need to be admitted with hospital orders; and to the designated hospital with nucleic acid paper waiting in line for the results 48 hours after diagnosis, can not be rejected by the hospital.
但在武汉紧急采取措施集中收治、放开诊断标准之前，这两条路径都不容易，每一条都可能是无尽的等待，都可能是生与死的煎熬。
But until Wuhan takes urgent measures to centralize treatment and release the diagnostic criteria, neither path will be easy, and each may be endless waiting, life and death.
2月1日，武汉市第五医院一位医生告诉《财经》记者，该定点医院就有大量拿着住院单排队等候，但因为床位紧张无法住进来的病例。
A doctor at Wuhan's Fifth Hospital told Caijing on Feb. 1 that the hospital was lined up with a large number of hospital bills but was unable to stay because of the shortage of beds.
随之而来的还有试剂盒的假阴性问题。
And then there is the false-negative problem of the kit.
另一位定点医院的医生告诉《财经》记者，他们医院核酸检测的阳性率只有45％，病人要做好几次检测才能确诊。
Another doctor at a designated hospital told Caijing that only 45 percent of patients tested positive for nucleic acid in hospitals and that patients had to undergo several tests to be diagnosed.
疫情之下，特殊人群的收治也成了问题。
Under the epidemic, the treatment of special groups has also become a problem.
一位住在武汉市江夏区纸坊机关幼儿园附近的孕妇家属告诉《财经》记者，家中孕妇怀孕8个月，最新诊断结果显示：双肺重度感染。
A pregnant woman living near a kindergarten in Jiangxia District, Wuhan, told Caijing that the latest diagnosis of severe two-lung infection was eight months pregnant, Caijing reported.
但定点发热门诊不收孕妇，门诊也没有胎心监护，区妇幼和省妇幼则不收发热病人。
However, there are no pregnant women in the sentinel fever clinic, no fetal heart monitoring in the clinic, and no febrile patients in the district, women and children in the provinces.
家人发微博求助几天后，1月31日他们得到了社区和区政府的关注，被社区车辆载着往返跑了几家医院，2月1日上午总算住进了武汉大学人民医院东院。
A few days after the family tweeted for help, on 31 January they received the attention of the community and district authorities and were driven back and forth by community vehicles to hospitals. They were finally admitted to the East Hospital of Wuhan University on the morning of February 1.
王明的父亲此前一直在华润武钢医院做定期透析。
Wang's father had been undergoing regular dialysis at China Resources Wugang Hospital.
但自从父亲被确诊为新冠肺炎后，这家医院拒绝了王明的治疗需求，“新冠肺炎患者只能到定点医院治疗”。
But since his father was diagnosed with pneumonia, the hospital has refused Wang's request for treatment. "New crown pneumonia patients can only be treated in designated hospitals."
但在武汉市第三医院、武昌医院等定点医院，王明得到的答案均是“透析室已关闭”。
However, in Wuhan Third Hospital, Wuchang Hospital and other designated hospitals, Wang Ming received the answer is "dialysis room has been closed."
“还没找到能做透析的地方。
"We haven't found a place for dialysis yet.
”王明2月4日告诉《财经》记者，第二天（2月5日）就是最后期限。
Wang told Caijing on February 4 that the next day (February 5) was the deadline.
肾透析的倒计时比新冠肺炎更残酷，如果不及时透析，病人大量的水潴（组织间隙积水造成肿胀）留在体内，会危及生命。
The countdown to dialysis is more brutal than that of the new crown pneumonia. Without timely dialysis, the patient's massive reservoir (swelling caused by stagnant tissue) remains in the body, threatening life.
72小时内， 王明跑了20多家医院，几乎没合眼。
Within 72 hours, Wang Ming went to more than 20 hospitals and barely slept a wink.
这一切困境在2月初迎来转机。
All of this turned around in early February.
2月5日，湖北省卫健委发布《关于全省特殊人群新型冠状病毒感染肺炎救治定点医院的公示》，规定了孕妇、儿童及透析患者疑似或确诊新冠肺炎后的定点医院。
On February 5, the Hubei Provincial Health Commission issued the Notice on the Hospital for the Treatment and Treatment of Coronavirus Infection with Pneumonia for Special Populations in the Province, stipulating the designated hospitals for pregnant women, children and dialysis patients suspected or confirmed to be newly infected with coronary pneumonia.
其中透析患者可选武汉市第三医院光谷院区、武汉市普爱医院古田院区、汉口医院、武昌医院。
Dialysis patients can be selected from Wuhan Third Hospital Guanggu courtyard district, Wuhan Puai Hospital Gutian courtyard area, Hankou Hospital, Wuchang Hospital.
当天上午11点，经武汉市卫健委协调，他父亲终于入住了武汉市第九医院重症室。
At 11 a.m. on that day, his father finally moved into the intensive care unit of Wuhan Ninth Hospital after being coordinated by Wuhan Health Care Commission.
下午4点，医护人员向病房内推进一台透析机。
At 4 p. m., paramedics pushed a dialysis machine into the ward.
“爸爸终于能好起来了。
"Daddy's finally getting better.
”王明说。
"said Wang Ming.
疫情之下，很难说哪个家庭更幸运。
It is hard to say which family is luckier in an epidemic.
有时候，习惯于绝望，比绝望更为致命。
Sometimes the habit of despair is more deadly than despair.
《财经》记者在采访病患家属时，多次听到“社区不管、医院不收，救救我们吧，我们没有办法了！”2月1日起，武汉市卫健委等政府部门采取了一系列紧急行动，从火神山、雷神山医院开放床位，到设立方舱医院，床位问题得到缓解。
When the Caijing reporter interviewed the family members of the patients, he heard many times that "the community does not care, the hospital does not accept, help us, we have no choice!" Since February 1, Wuhan Health Care Commission and other government departments have taken a series of urgent actions, ranging from opening beds at Mount Huoshen, Lei Shenshan Hospital to establishing a cabin hospital.
此前淤塞的核酸检测也逐步放开。
The detection of previously blocked nucleic acids was gradually released.
更为重要的是，实施“四类人员”集中收治的十号令。
More importantly, the implementation of the "four categories of personnel" centralized treatment order 10.
“四类人员”分别是：确诊患者、疑似患者、无法明确排除新冠肺炎可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
"Four categories of people" are: confirmed patients, suspected patients, can not definitively exclude the possibility of new crown pneumonia febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
其中，重症的确诊患者和疑似患者必须入院治疗，而无法入院的需征用其他医院或酒店等集中隔离收治。
Of these, confirmed and suspected patients in serious condition must be hospitalized, while those who are unable to be hospitalized need to be hospitalized in centralized isolation such as other hospitals or hotels.
规定还新增了发热患者和密切接触者的集中隔离措施。
Intensive isolation measures for febrile patients and close contacts have also been introduced.
这些新举措得到普遍肯定，被认为是切断传染源、防止交叉感染的有力措施。
These new initiatives are widely recognized as powerful measures to cut off the source of infection and prevent cross-infection.
2月2日下午5时，罗忆心中的石头终于落地。
February 2 at 5 p.m., the heart of the stone finally fell.
他重病多日而寻医无门的哥哥，接到了社区卫生站的通知，当晚可以入住集中隔离点。
His brother, who had been ill for many days and sought medical attention, was notified by the community health post that he could be admitted to the intensive quarantine facility that night.
但当晚8时，罗忆接到了社区卫生站司机的电话：“你哥哥需要离开集中隔离的酒店了。
But at 8 p. m., he got a call from the community health station driver: "Your brother needs to leave the Centrally Isolated Hotel.
”他瞬间懵了。
He was stunned.
接着，发着超过39摄氏度高烧的哥哥被送回家，社区卫生站给出的理由是：高烧严重，隔离点没有医生和检测设备，无法接收。
Then his brother, who had a fever of more than 39 degrees Celsius, was sent home, citing a high fever and the lack of doctors and testing equipment to receive the site.
到隔离点入住的人需先量体温，重症患者可能被劝阻进入。
People arriving at the quarantine site need to have their temperature taken first and patients with severe illnesses may be discouraged from entering.
一位护士解释，因为酒店目前只是观察隔离点，不能打针不能吃药，“暂时没有抢救措施，如果患者自己觉得状况很危险，真的建议不要住”。
A nurse explained that because the hotel is only observing the isolation point, can not take medicine injection, "there is no rescue measures, if the patients themselves feel dangerous, really advised not to live."
对于隔离点没有安排好相应的隔离措施，罗忆觉得有些遗憾。
For the isolation points do not arrange for the corresponding isolation measures, memory felt a bit sorry.
隔离点是有疑似症状市民的期望所在，那里能做核酸检测，还能避免家庭感染。
Isolation sites are the hope of citizens with suspected symptoms, where nucleic acid testing can be done and family infections can be prevented.
但隔离点的安置情况决定了其能否完全、安全收纳疑似病患者，也决定了能否及时控制疫情传染源。
However, the placement of isolation points determines its ability to fully and safely accept suspected patients, as well as timely control of the epidemic source of infection.
自“封城”以来的三周里，刘梅先后经历了婆婆未确诊去世，大哥、二哥、丈夫感染无法住院，父亲肺癌买不到药，她对《财经》记者说过多次：“全家就我没感染，但我快要撑不住了。
In the three weeks since her mother-in-law died, her brother-in-law, her brother-in-law and her husband were unable to be hospitalized, and her father's lung cancer could not be bought.
”2月7日左右，随着武汉新建的多个方舱医院隔离点和数以千计的定点医院新床位投入使用，刘梅家所有的病患都得到了救治。
Around February 7, all Liu's patients were treated as a result of the opening of a new multi-cabin hospital in Wuhan and the opening of new beds in thousands of designated hospitals.
如今，她又成为了社区建设的志愿者，积极检查小区垃圾消毒处理问题。
Now, she has become a community building volunteers, actively check the community garbage disposal problem.
2020年2月5日晚9时，首批新冠病毒肺炎轻症患者陆续抵达武汉国际会展中心方舱医院。
At 9: 00 p.m. on February 5, 2020, the first cases of mild pneumonia in Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Centre arrived in the cabin hospital.
摄影/陈卓武汉市民在这三周的时间里经历了太多。
Photography / Chen Zhuobuhan City in the past three weeks have gone through too much.
一些人对疫情一开始只有模糊意识，从没想到自己会亲历全家感染，甚至亲人离世。
Some people have only a vague sense of the outbreak at the beginning, never thought they would personally experience a family infection, or even the death of a loved one.
在与漫长而严酷的疫情抗争中，他们奋力求救，也守望相助。
In their struggle against a long and brutal epidemic, they fought desperately for help and kept watch.
抗疫漩涡中的医院所有医院成了武汉最拥挤的地方。
The hospital in the whirlpool of the epidemic. All the hospitals have become the most crowded places in Wuhan.
中国工程院院士李兰娟2月3日表示，对抗新冠肺炎疫情，需要早发现、早诊断、早隔离、早治疗，但这些目前在武汉都还做不到。
Li Lanjuan, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said on February 3 that fighting the outbreak would require early detection, diagnosis, early isolation and early treatment, which are not yet available in Wuhan.
由于对病毒传染途径认识不全面，加之防护物资缺乏，大量医护人员被感染。
Inadequate knowledge of the route of transmission of the virus, coupled with a lack of protective materials, has led to a large number of infections.
他们不仅要救治病患，还得保护自己，武汉的医院已无秩序可言。
They should not only treat patients, but also protect themselves, Wuhan hospitals have no order to speak of.
根据国家卫健委数据，截至2月11日，全国1716名医务人员感染新冠肺炎，6人不幸以身殉职。
As of February 11, 1,716 medical workers nationwide had contracted pneumonia and six had died in the line of duty, according to the National Health Commission.
“非典的时候，也没有这么多的医护人员被感染。
"There were not so many people infected when we had SARS.
”武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇对《财经》记者说。
"Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told Caijing.
1月6日到17日，武汉市和湖北省“两会”分别召开。
From January 6 to 17, the "NPC and CPPCC" held in Wuhan and Hubei provinces, respectively.
期间，除了1月11日武汉卫健委通报了41例确诊外，两个“两会”期间武汉市卫健委始终通报无新增新冠肺炎病例，并表示“尚未发现明确的人传人证据”。
In addition to the 41 cases reported by Wuhan Fitness Commission on January 11, the Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission has always notified that there were no new cases of Newly Coronary Pneumonia and said that "no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission has been found."
此时已有医护人员陆续感染。
At this point medical personnel have been infected.
武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮的一位同事告诉《财经》记者，李文亮最早于2019年12月30日在微信群里提醒大家注意防护后，他们抓紧自费买了一盒N95口罩，但“第二天就买不到了”，医院防护物资准备有限，赶不上诊治发热病人的日常消耗。
A colleague of Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, told Caijing that Li Wenliang had rushed to buy a box of N95 masks at his own expense on December 30, 2019.
1月12日左右，李文亮作为中心医院第一批感染的医护人员住进了病房。
On or about January 12, Li Wenliang was admitted to the ward as the first hospital staff to be infected.
身为眼科医生，李文亮是在1月初接诊时被感染的。
As an ophthalmologist, Li Wenliang was infected during a consultation in early January.
他在重上岗位之前，还曾因擅自警示疫情而受到武汉警方“训诫”。
Before returning to his post, he had been warned of the outbreak by Wuhan police "admonition."
武汉市金银潭医院副院长黄朝林对《财经》记者说，早期传染病专科的医护人员，可能防护做得比较好，感染人数少，但在非传染病科室，一些非发热病人可能也患有新冠肺炎，“由于早期医护人员对病毒认识不够，可能会导致部分感染”。
Huang Chaolin, vice-president of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, told Caijing that medical staff specializing in early infectious diseases may be better protected and fewer people infected, but that some non-febrile patients in the NCD department may also have pneumonia, "which may cause some infections due to insufficient understanding of the virus by early medical staff."
1月10日前后，中南医院收治了一位腹部不适的患者。
Around January 10, a South China hospital admitted a patient with abdominal discomfort.
彭志勇说，最早引发医护感染的正是这名腹病患者，他感染了相关的十余名医护人员，其中一名医生又将病毒传染给了家人。
Pang Zhiyong said it was the abdominal patient who first developed the infection, infecting a dozen health-care workers, one of whom passed the virus on to his family.
一位120随车护士称，她曾在手术麻醉科给脑出血的病人做手术，病人术后才承认已经发烧一周，手术时，6名医护人员都没有做防护。
A 120-year-old paramedic said she had operated on a patient with cerebral hemorrhage in the anaesthesiology department and admitted she had a fever for a week.
1月20日晚间，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山院士表示，“肯定有人传人”，这重新定义了疫情的严峻程度。
On the night of January 20, academician Zhong Nan-shan, head of the high-level group of experts of the National Fitness and Health Commission, said: "There must be someone passing from person to person.
为应对发热病人“因无序就医带来交叉感染和疾病传播问题”，1月22日武汉市确定了“7+7”模式，即在城区7家大型医院附近，选择7家二级公立医院作为发热门诊定点医院，专门收治发热病人。
To cope with the problem of cross-infection and spread of diseases caused by disorderly medical treatment, Wuhan on January 22 established the "7 + 7" model, in which seven secondary public hospitals are selected as fever clinics near seven major hospitals in urban areas to treat febrile patients.
医生李鹏正是在这天加入了其中一家定点医院的发热门诊。
It is on this day that doctor Li Peng joined the fever clinic of one of the designated hospitals.
他对《财经》记者说，他接到通知时，医院名单已经对外公布了，“中间几乎没有准备的时间”。
He told Caijing that by the time he was notified, the list of hospitals had been made public, "with little time for preparation."
当天，大量病人涌入，医院要转移已有病人，还要做病房改造工作，手忙脚乱。
On the same day, a large influx of patients, the hospital to transfer existing patients, but also to do the work of ward renovation, hectic.
这一天，病人排队时间超过6小时的比比皆是。
On this day, patients queued up for more than six hours.
很多病人情绪不好，有人大哭，有人争吵，有人骂人。
Many patients are in a bad mood, some are crying, some are arguing and some are swearing.
此时整个武汉的现状是，初期被感染的病患潜伏期已过，新冠肺炎大规模爆发，他们恐慌性涌入各个医院，但武汉的医疗资源已极度绷紧。
At this time, Wuhan as a whole, the initial infected patients have passed incubation period, a large-scale outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, they panic into the various hospitals, but Wuhan's medical resources have become extremely strained.
隔离条件不足，试剂盒和床位缺乏，志愿者援助物资的到达通道不畅，大量病患得不到住院救治，医院和医生陷入前所未有的困境。
Isolation conditions are inadequate, kits and beds are lacking, access to volunteer assistance is poor, large numbers of patients are denied hospital care and hospitals and doctors are in an unprecedented plight.
武汉中心医院医生田璐对《财经》记者回忆，当时发热、疑似患者及医护人员都在隔离区外随意穿行，收治不下的患者坐在过道里，污染区越来越大。
Wuhan central hospital doctor Tian Lu told Caijing reporter that fever, suspected patients and medical staff were walking through the area of separation at random, patients can not be admitted sitting in the corridor, the pollution area is growing.
上海市第一人民医院副院长郑军华向《财经》记者回忆，1月27日他带领第一批上海援鄂医疗队进驻金银潭医院后，对当地医护说的第一句话是：“撑了一个月，你们不容易。
Zhang Junhua, vice-president of Shanghai's First People's Hospital, told Caijing on January 27 that after leading the first group of medical teams from Shanghai to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital, his first words to local medical staff were: "It took a month.
”之后，他所带领的团队用了近一周的时间，研究制定一份详细的感染控制方案。
Later, his team spent nearly a week working on a detailed infection-control plan.
按该方案，医院必须要三区两通道，有清洁区、污染区、缓冲区，医护人员和患者要走不同的通道。
Under the programme, the hospital must have three areas, two corridors, a clean area, a contaminated area, a buffer zone and different access routes for medical staff and patients.
“我做院长十三年，从未采用过如此高等级的感控防护措施。
"I've been dean for thirteen years and I've never used such a high level of sensitivity protection.
”郑军华说。
"said Zheng Junhua.
李鹏说，自己直到1月29日才得知确诊流程，先要科室筛选，上报医院，医院再上报到区里。
Li Peng said that he did not know the diagnosis process until January 29, the first section to screen, reported to the hospital, the hospital reported to the district.
每个科室每天只有3名－5名病患有检测机会。
Only three to five patients per day from each section have access to testing.
床位、检测试剂盒的数量都跟不上疫情的蔓延速度。
The number of beds and test kits has not kept pace with the spread of the epidemic.
一位女患者曾对他说，自己的丈夫被感染了，不知道能不能熬过今晚。
One woman told him her husband was infected and wondered if he could make it through the night.
李鹏看了她的肺部CT，告诉她80％的概率是新冠肺炎，已经很严重了，还给她开了住院单。
Li Peng looked at her lung CT, told her that the probability of 80% is new crown pneumonia, is already very serious, and she also issued a hospital certificate.
李鹏告诉她，目前没有床位，得登记排队。
Peng Li told her that there is no bed at present, have to register queues.
“她当时就情绪崩溃了。
"She was in a state of nervous breakdown.
这个病人后来去哪了，我也不知道。
Where the patient went later, I don't know.
”李鹏说。
"said Li Peng.
“网上有很多帖子提到，武汉有不少病人高度疑似但无法就医的问题，但从医护人员的角度，我们真的尽力了。
"There are many online posts mentioned that Wuhan has a lot of patients who are highly suspected but unable to see a doctor, but from the medical point of view, we really try our best.
”事实上，对于李鹏以及许多医护人员来说，由于医疗防护设备极度紧张，保护好自己都是一件难事。
Indeed, for Li and many medical workers, protecting themselves is a difficult task because of the extreme stress of medical equipment.
2020年1月27日，武汉一家医院的手术麻醉科护士刚下手术就累得睡着了。
January 27, 2020, Wuhan hospital surgery anesthesiologist just after surgery tired to sleep.
李鹏的科室一共有10名医生，约20名护士，截至1月29日，该科室共出现疑似感染医护人员7人。
Li Peng's department has a total of 10 doctors and about 20 nurses. As of January 29, there were seven suspected cases of infection in the department.
如果把范围扩大到全医院的话，截至1月27日疑似感染医护人员61名。
If expanded to cover the entire hospital, as of January 27, 61 suspected infected medical personnel.
他们都出现了发烧、肺部CT有问题的情况。
They all developed fever and lung CT problems.
“正常情况下我们整个医院都要被隔离了，但现在是非常时期，医护人员太紧缺了。
"Normally our entire hospital would be quarantined, but these are times of great stress, with so many doctors and nurses.
”1月29日李鹏值晚班。
Li Peng was on duty on January 29.
进病房前他看到配发的口罩不合格，但他没有时间犹豫。
Before entering the ward, he saw that the mask he had been given was inadequate, but he had no time to hesitate.
值班周期是4小时轮班，因为口罩和防护服必须4小时换一次。
The duty cycle is four-hour shifts, as masks and protective clothing must be changed every four hours.
“我如果晚进去一分钟，里面的同事就增加一分风险。
"If I get in a minute late, my co-workers increase their risk.
”李鹏说，他只能立刻戴上进去。
Li Peng said he could only put it on immediately.
志愿者团队“Yo！”的一位成员说，1月27日到30日是武汉医疗物资紧缺的高峰期。
The peak period for medical supplies in Wuhan was January 27 to 30, said a member of the volunteer team Yo!
志愿者们遇到的主要问题，是医用物资标准高，渠道难寻；医院不接受公开资助，被查到可能会有被处理的风险；物流政策每天都在变化，发货点爆仓但是湖北末端物流跟不上。
The main problems encountered by the volunteers were the high standards of medical supplies and the lack of access to them; the non-acceptance of public funding by hospitals, which were identified as being at risk of being treated; and daily changes in logistics policies, with delivery points opening but Hubei terminal logistics not keeping pace.
《财经》记者获得一份武汉1月31日的内部专报指出，医疗防护物资供需缺口之大：武汉市日均N95口罩需求量6万个左右，但获得的日均调拨不到3万个，缺口一半多，医用防护服更甚，日均需求3万套左右，调拨供给仅几千套。
According to an internal Wuhan January 31 special report, the gap between supply and demand for medical protection materials is huge: Wuhan City needs an average of 60,000 N95 masks a day, but receives less than 30,000 a day, more than half of the shortfall, more medical protective clothing, an average daily demand of about 30,000 sets, allocation of supplies only a few thousand sets.
2月6日深夜，李文亮医生去世，武汉医护人员的情绪达到顶峰。
Late at night on February 6, Dr. Li Wenliang passed away, and the mood of Wuhan medical staff reached a peak.
一位李文亮医生的同事说：“本想打开系统查病历，结果看到病区和ICU里有好多熟悉的名字，心痛得无以复加。
"I wanted to open up the system to look up the medical records, but I saw a lot of familiar names in the area and ICU," said a colleague.
”此时她正在倒班休息，第二天她还是要早起上前线。
"She was on shift now, and the next day she was going to get up early and go to the front.
回头来看，从1月23日“封城”到2月初的十天左右，是武汉医卫系统最混乱无措的阶段。
Looking back, January 23 from the "closure" to the beginning of February about 10 days, Wuhan health system is the most chaotic phase.
此后，政府开始逐步缓解“确诊难”、“床位紧”和家庭感染的问题。
Since then, the government has gradually eased the problems of "difficult diagnosis," "tight beds" and domestic infections.
随着社区医院分流措施和对”四类人员“的集中隔离收治，再加上外省医护援助，武汉各医院的紧张情况有所缓解。
With the decentralization of community hospitals and the centralized segregation of "four categories of people," coupled with provincial medical assistance, the tension in Wuhan hospitals has eased somewhat.
截至2月12日，武汉市已建成方舱医院11家，可开放床位6929张。
As of February 12, 11 Fang Cao hospitals had been built in Wuhan, with 6929 beds available.
火神山、雷神山医院也分别于2月4日、8日开始收治转院病人，共设床位2300张－2600张。
On February 4 and 8, Lui Shenshan Hospital also admitted 2, 300 - 2, 600 beds for patients transferred to hospital.
2020年2月9日晚，武汉雷神山医院接收了第二批新冠肺炎患者，总入住患者达80余人。
On the night of February 9, 2020, Wuhan Raytheon Hill Hospital received the second group of patients with new crown pneumonia, a total of more than 80 patients.
图为医护人员为患者鼓劲加油。
The picture shows medical staff cheering up the patients.
图/中新1995年出生的王帆是海南省第五医院护士，她和同伴去援助的是武汉一家方舱医院，那里有1600位新冠肺炎确诊病人，她们每天和病人一起度过6个小时，帮他们量体温、送饭、做咽拭子检测。
Photo / Zhongxin, born in 1995, is a nurse at Hainan's Fifth Hospital. She and her colleagues went to a Wuhan cabin hospital where 1,600 patients diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia spent six hours a day with patients to take their temperature, take food, and swabs.
2020年2月10日，在武汉客厅方舱医院，医护人员带领患者们跳舞。
On February 10, 2020, in Wuhan living room cabin hospital, medical staff led the patients to dance.
图/新华方舱医院收治轻症病人，当天建成当天收治。
Photo / Xinhua cabin hospital admitted light cases, completed the same day admission.
王帆说，晚上10点左右，群里突然说要集合，王帆刚洗完的头发还没吹干就下去了。
Wang Fan said that around 10 pm, the group suddenly said to assemble, Wang Fan just finished the hair before the dry down.
值了一晚上夜班，第二天摸头发还是湿的。
The night shift, the next day touch the hair is still wet.
在方舱医院值班期间，他们不能吃喝，不然防护服就用不了。
They could not eat or drink while the cabin hospital was on duty, otherwise they would not be able to use protective clothing.
白班从早上8点一直到下午2点。
Day shifts run from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
王帆准备了尿不湿，有同事买的尿不湿尺寸小，最后滴了出来，被大家笑话。
Wang Fan prepared to urine not wet, colleagues bought a small size of urine wet, finally drip out, by everyone's joke.
2020年2月12日，武汉江岸塔子湖方舱医院医护人员做好防护工作准备进舱。
February 12, 2020, Wuhan river bank tower lake cabin hospital medical staff to prepare for the protection work into the cabin.
图/中新保证安全是第一位的。
Figure / Sino-New Guarantee Safety is the first priority.
特别是在脱下防护服的时候，王帆和同事们不能动作太大，要“慢慢地往下卷”，不能碰到衣服外面，互相照看，“你是我的眼睛，我是你的眼睛”。
Especially when taking off the protective clothing, Wang Fan and his colleagues can not move too big, to "slowly roll down", can not touch the clothes outside, look after each other, "You are my eyes, I am your eyes.
2月4日，国家卫健委下发第五版新冠肺炎诊疗方案，规定湖北地区可以依据CT出现的典型征象、临床症状作为新冠肺炎的临床诊断，即使没有做过核酸试纸检测。
On February 4, the State Fitness and Health Commission issued the fifth edition of the new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment plan, stipulating that Hubei region can use the typical CT signs and clinical symptoms as the clinical diagnosis of the new crown pneumonia, even if no nucleic acid test paper has been done.
诊治标准的放开，加上床位供给的补足，让医院的压力进一步缓解。
The release of the standard of treatment and treatment, coupled with the supply of beds to make up, so that the pressure of the hospital further alleviated.
随之而来的，是隐形病患们被确诊、收治，阶段性确诊数据上涨，仅2月12日，湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，其中武汉为13436例。
This was followed by the diagnosis and treatment of invisible patients and an increase in the number of confirmed cases. On February 12 alone, 14,840 new cases of pneumonia were reported in Hubei Province, including 13,436 in Wuhan.
湖北省累计报告新冠肺炎病例48206例。
A total of 48,206 cases of new crown pneumonia were reported in Hubei Province.
在急诊室里，中南医院急诊外科主任沈俊和病人们的共同抗战还在继续。
In the emergency room, the joint resistance of Shen Jun, director of emergency surgery at Zhongnan Hospital, and patients continued.
他曾接诊一位45岁的重症病人。
He treated a 45-year-old critically ill patient.
病人一家五口，父母皆因新冠肺炎去世，儿子也被感染。
The patient's family of five parents died of pneumonia and their son was infected.
病人的情况十分严重，用了高流量吸氧和无创面罩通气，但血氧饱和度还是只有50％，最后不得已给她麻醉插管，上了ECMO（人工肺）。
The patient was in a critical condition, using high-flow oxygen and non-invasive facemask ventilation, but the oxygen saturation of the blood was only 50%, and she had to be anaesthetized with an ECMO.
“在插管麻醉前，她看着我们做准备，眼泪不停地往下流，那种恐惧让人看到心疼。
"Before the intubation anesthesia, she watched as we prepared, tears streaming down her face, a fear that hurt.
”沈俊说，像这样的情况还有很多，“我们医生都下了决心，尽全力救治所有病人”。
"There are many more cases like this," said Shen. "We doctors are determined to do our best to treat all patients."
分离、紧张和悲痛，这些弥漫在武汉的情绪，都只能和疫情同时结束。
Separation, tension and grief, all of which pervade Wuhan, can only end with the outbreak.
失控和恐慌是常事，但不会是常态。
Out of control and panic are common, but not the norm.
在此之前，推动着这座城市向前的，是人类特有的责任感、对家庭的爱和希望的本能。
Until then, the city had been propelled by a sense of responsibility, a love for the family and an instinct for hope that was characteristic of humankind.
疫情考验下的举国体制对于疫情防控，切断传染源是有效措施，但对人口超千万的大都市来说，“封城”的影响可想而知。
The Juguo system under the test of the epidemic disease prevention and control, cut off the source of infection is effective measures, but for the population of more than 10 million metropolises, the "closure" of the impact can be imagined.
不仅医疗物资紧缺，随着疫情蔓延，医院床位也跟着告急。
Not only are medical supplies in short supply, but hospital beds are also in short supply as the epidemic spreads.
1月27日，武汉经济技术开发区（汉南区）疫情防控指挥部的一份文件中提到，原汉南区人民医院的感染病区隔离病房床位一再超员，临床科室所收治的150余名患者，均存在新冠病毒院内交叉感染的风险。
On January 27, a document from the Wuhan Economic and Technological Development Zone (Henan District) Command mentioned that beds in the isolation ward of the infected ward of the People's Hospital in the former Hanan District were repeatedly overcrowded, and that more than 150 patients admitted to the clinic were at risk of cross-infection in the hospital.
同时，还有大量疑似新冠肺炎病人不能入住。
At the same time, there are a large number of suspected New Crown Pneumonia patients can not stay.
1月30日，江汉区上报武汉市政府，“恳请协调解决病人收治事宜”。
January 30, Wuhan District reported to the Wuhan city government, "please coordinate to solve the patient's admission matters."
尽管江汉区有四家定点医院，但截至当日仍有142例确诊病人无法收治入院。
Although there are four designated hospitals in Jianghan District, 142 confirmed patients could not be hospitalized as of that date.
1月23日、25日，武汉市政府先后决定建造火神山、雷神山两所医院。
On January 23 and 25, the Wuhan city government decided to build two hospitals, Mount Fire and Lei Shenshan.
2月2日、2月8日，两座医院先后交付，共有2300张－2600张床位。
On February 2 and February 8, two hospitals delivered a total of 2,300 - 2,600 beds.
从1月24日火神山医院相关设计方案完成，到2月2日交付，火神山医院创造了多项建设纪录。
From Jan. 24, the design of Mount Fujimori Hospital was completed and delivered on February 2, creating a number of building records.
火神山医院原计划于2月3日开始接收病人，但《财经》记者当天下午在现场看到，部分区域仍处于设备装配收尾阶段，空调、通风等设备仍在陆续安装，一些呼吸机、病床等医疗器械摆放在路旁尚未安装。
The hospital was due to begin receiving patients on Feb. 3, but Caijing said on the afternoon of the same day that some areas were still in the final stages of equipment installation, air conditioning, ventilation and other equipment is still being installed, some breathing machines, hospital beds and other medical equipment has not been installed on the roadside.
2020年1月24日，农历除夕，在武汉火神山医院施工现场吃年饭的工人。
January 24, 2020, Lunar New Year's Eve, Wuhan, the God of Fire Mountain Hospital construction site to eat the workers.
摄影/陈卓接近2月3日24时，由于病房还未准备好，转运病人的救护车在距离火神山10分钟路程时返回。
Photo / Chen Zhuo February 3 near 2400 hours, because the ward is not ready, the transfer of the patient's ambulance 10 minutes away from the fire god return.
2月4日9时许，第一批病人入院。
On 4 February, at approximately 9 a.m., the first patients were admitted to hospital.
2020年2月6日下午，武汉火神山医院，一辆运送医疗设备和工作人员的车辆抵达。
On the afternoon of 6 February 2020, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, a vehicle carrying medical equipment and staff arrived.
摄影/陈卓床位在增加，但是需要收治的病人增加得更多。
The number of photography / Chen Zhuo beds is increasing, but the number of patients needing treatment has increased even more.
疫情期间，所有发热病人上报的第一步，都必须通过社区。
During the outbreak, all febrile patients must report the first step through the community.
病人不能自行前往定点医院检查，需要先拿到社区医院的转诊单。
Patients cannot travel to designated hospitals on their own and require a referral form from a community hospital.
2月2日，武汉疫情防控指挥部要求，中午12点前，各区必须完成现有“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作，对新增人员要实现“日清日结”。
On February 2, Wuhan Control and Prevention Command requested that before 12 noon, all districts must complete the existing "four categories of personnel" concentrated treatment and isolation, to achieve the "day-to-day closure" of the new personnel.
当天下午，一位洪山区的社区工作人员反映，他们并未接到关于“四类人员”的任何通知，就算有这样的要求，他们也做不到。
In the afternoon, a Hong Kong community worker said they had not received any notification of the "four categories of people" and could not even do so.
“如果真的要做到集中收治和隔离，这么多居民，这么大的需求，谁能满足？哪里有那么多可以隔离的地方呢？”他反问《财经》记者。
"If we really want to concentrate and isolate, so many residents, so much demand, who can satisfy? Where is so much to isolate?" he asked Caijing.
压力层层向下传导，最后压到基层。
Pressure cascades down, down to the base.
这名社区工作人员说，疫情期间每天都会收到各种上级指示，但可行的很少，例如给居民送口罩，“我们根本没有口罩怎么送”？还要求在给被隔离的疑似患者送物资时，对方必须签收，“我们都要避免接触，怎么可能签字”？社区工作者面临的最麻烦的事，是源源不断的填表格和汇报工作。
The community worker said instructions were received on a daily basis during the outbreak, but few were feasible, such as giving masks to residents and requiring them to sign "We all avoid contact, how can we sign" when delivering to quarantined suspected patients?
“一件事情要解决，至少要填8张表格，每天还都不一样。
"You need to fill out at least eight forms for a task to be solved. It's different every day.
发生任何事，第一时间就要求我们拍照、合影。
When anything happens, we are asked to take pictures and take pictures in the first place.
”这位工作人员表示，本来可以半小时就完成的工作，往往要花一小时以上的时间。
What could have been done in half an hour often took more than an hour, according to the staff member.
《财经》记者在他所在的社区服务中心看到，打电话过来要求派车送去医院的发热病人源源不断，还有发热病人直接赶到社区服务中心要求就医。
Caijing reporters at his community service center saw a steady stream of hot patients calling for cars to hospitals, and fever sufferers rushed directly to community service centers to seek medical treatment.
但社区保障车队的司机并没有专业的防护装备，不具备运送发热病人的能力。
However, the drivers of the community-guaranteed fleet do not have professional protective equipment and are not capable of transporting febrile patients.
拨打120电话也需要等待，有的甚至已经排到了两天后。
Call 120 also needs to wait, and some have been waiting for up to two days.
这种情况持续数日。
This continued for several days.
2月12日下午，武汉大学人民医院门口，还坐着约10名确诊病人，他们来自武昌区的不同社区，社区接到通知称，当天可以将这些病人转到雷神山医院，救护车会在下午1点半抵达。
On the afternoon of February 12, in front of the People's Hospital of Wuhan University, there were about 10 confirmed patients from different communities in Wuchang district who were informed that the patients could be transferred to Raytheon Mountain Hospital on the same day and that ambulances would arrive at 1.30 p.m.
他们一直等到下午5点，救护车仍然没来，一位年纪较大的患者已经出现明显不适。
They waited until 5pm for the ambulance still to arrive, and an older patient was visibly ill.
他正在医学院就读的女儿许月一直在拨打包括市长热线在内的所有能找到的救助电话，最终得到回复：4个小时候内会上报到防疫指挥部。
Xu Yueh, his daughter in medical school, has been calling all available help lines, including the mayor's hotline, and received a reply: Within four hours he would be reported to the anti-epidemic command.
一位路过的政府工作人员了解到情况，立刻帮忙联系区防疫指挥部，但他坦言：“雷神山医院是一边建设、一边收治病人，现在可能还没有新的病床空出来。
A passing government worker, aware of the situation, immediately helped to contact the regional anti-epidemic command, but admitted: "Raytheon Mountain Hospital is built, while receiving patients, there may not be new beds available.
”下午6点，有社区书记告诉许月，当晚一定会送到雷神山，但不确定具体几点。
At 6: 00 pm, a community secretary told Xu Yueh that the night would definitely be sent to Raytheon Hill, but was unsure about the exact points.
7点左右，社区工作人员把病人转移到附近的武船中心医院，在医院大厅继续等待，并发放了盒饭。
Around 7 p.m., community workers moved the patients to a nearby martial arts central hospital, where they continued to wait in the hospital lobby and distributed boxes of food.
晚上8点，他们接到通知，雷神山医院确实没有准备好，改为转去湖北省中医院光谷院区，晚上9点，在冷风中等待了8个小时后，救护车终于抵达。
At 8 p.m., they were informed that the Lei Shenshan Hospital was not really ready, but transferred to the Guanggu courtyard of Hubei Provincial Hospital. At 9 p.m., after waiting for 8 hours in a cold wind, the ambulance finally arrived.
路过帮忙的政府工作人员对《财经》记者表示，政府各个部门人手都已经透支，他们每天都能接到上百个求助电话，只能选择最紧急的情况处理。
Government workers passing by told Caijing that government departments were overstretched and they received hundreds of calls every day and had to choose the most urgent cases.
2月3日晚，武汉市连夜在洪山体育馆、武汉客厅、武汉国际会展中心开辟三所方舱医院，用于收治新冠肺炎轻症患者。
On the night of February 3, Wuhan city opened three cabin hospitals in Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan living room and Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center for treating patients with mild cases of Newcastle Pneumonia.
截至2月12日，武汉市已建成方舱医院11家，计划床位9029张，可开放床位6929张，已使用床位5101张。
As of February 12, 11 Fang Cao hospitals had been built in Wuhan, with a planned 9,029 beds and 6929 beds, with 5101 beds already in use.
2020年2月12日，位于武汉体育中心的方舱医院正式启用，提供1100张医疗床位。
On February 12, 2020, the Fang Cathedral Hospital in Wuhan Sports Center opened, providing 1,100 medical beds.
来自安徽医疗队的王鸿（左）准备接收转运来的患者。
Wang Hong (left) from Anhui Medical Team is ready to receive the transshipment patients.
图/新华截至2月13日，武汉市定点医疗机构达到40余家，床位增加到1.2万张，将全部用于收治重症和危重症患者。
Chart / Xinhua As of February 13, the number of designated medical institutions in Wuhan had reached more than 40, and the number of beds had increased to 12,000, all of which would be used to treat critically ill and critically ill patients.
武汉市和湖北省的力量显然已经无法独力应对雪崩般的疫情，其他各省区直辖市、解放军、中央政府的援助纷至沓来。
The strength of Wuhan and Hubei provinces has clearly been unable to cope with the avalanche on their own. Aid from other provinces and municipalities, the People's Liberation Army and the central government has poured in.
据国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红2月13日介绍，全国19个省区直辖市共派出25支医疗队，实现对湖北省16个地市需求的全覆盖和全满足。
A total of 25 medical teams from 19 provinces and municipalities directly under the Central Government were sent to achieve full coverage and coverage of the needs of 16 prefectures and municipalities in Hubei province, Guo Yanhong, an ombudsman of the National Health and Physical Fitness Commission, said on February 13.
根据湖北省各地市的需要，在派出力量的同时，还要增派50％的力量作为储备，力争做到让增援力量等患者、等任务。
In accordance with the needs of cities and municipalities in Hubei Province, we will send more than 50 percent of our forces as reserves to meet the needs of patients, such as reinforcements.
1月24日除夕夜，陆军、海军、空军军医大学紧急抽组三支医疗队各150人，分别从重庆、上海、西安搭乘军用运输机，驰援武汉。
On January 24, New Year's Eve, the Army, Navy and Air Force Medical University drew 150 medical teams each from Chongqing, Shanghai and Xi'an on military transport planes to help Wuhan.
2月2日凌晨，空军出动8架大型运输机，分别从沈阳、兰州、广州、南京起飞，向武汉紧急空运军队支援湖北医疗队队员和58吨物资。
In the early morning hours of February 2, the Air Force dispatched eight large transport aircraft, taking off from Shenyang, Lanzhou, Guangzhou and Nanjing, respectively, to provide emergency airlift support to members of the Hubei medical team and 58 tons of materials.
当日，在火神山医院移交仪式前， 950名军队医护工作者与先期抵达的450名医疗队员“会师”火神山医院。
Before the handover ceremony at Mount Fujimori Hospital, 950 army medical workers and 450 medical personnel arrived earlier that day.
同时，湖北省军区协调驻鄂部队成立抗击疫情运力支援队，担负疫情防控期间武汉市生活物资的网点运输保障。
At the same time, the Hubei military region coordinated the establishment of the Anti-Epidemic Support Team in Hubei Province to ensure the transportation of supplies to Wuhan during the period of epidemic prevention and control.
据《解放军报》报道，截至2月12日，该运力支援队共运送物资2900余吨，医疗物资2万多件（套）。
As of February 12, the support group had transported more than 2,900 tons of supplies and more than 20,000 medical supplies, according to the PLA.
物资、医护人员、床位紧张逐渐缓解，但武汉压力并未减轻。
Material, medical staff, bed tension gradually eased, but Wuhan pressure has not been alleviated.
中央赴湖北指导组提出新的要求，在“四类人员”分类集中管理的基础上，要求真正做到“应收尽收、不漏一人”。
On the basis of the centralized management of the classification of "four categories of personnel," the central guidance group to Hubei requires that "all receivable, no one should be left out."
2月10日到14日，中共中央总书记、国家主席、中央军委主席习近平连续三次就新冠病毒疫情防控工作做出指示。
From February 10 to 14, Chinese Communist Party General Secretary, State Chairman and Chairman of the Central Military Commission Xi Jinping issued three consecutive directives on the prevention and control of the new crown virus disease.
在14日的会议上他强调：“确保人民群众生命安全和身体健康，是我们党治国理政的一项重大任务。
"Ensuring people's lives, safety and health is a major task of our Party's governance," he stressed at the meeting on the 14th.
既要立足当前，科学精准打赢疫情防控阻击战，更要放眼长远，总结经验、吸取教训，针对这次疫情暴露出来的短板和不足，抓紧补短板、堵漏洞、强弱项，该坚持的坚持，该完善的完善，该建立的建立，该落实的落实，完善重大疫情防控体制机制，健全国家公共卫生应急管理体系。
We should take a long-term view, draw lessons from the experience gained and learn lessons from this outbreak, and grasp the shortcomings and shortcomings revealed by the epidemic, so as to strengthen and perfect the board, plug the loopholes, strength and weakness.
”2月10日晚，中央赴湖北指导组召开约谈会，国务院副秘书长、国务院办公厅督查室主任高雨约谈武汉市武昌区区长余松边：“应收尽收是防控新冠肺炎疫情的关键，要把好事办好，怎么能把好事办坏？这些负责转运危重和重症病人的党员干部为什么不跟车？现在的武汉就是战时状态，这些人的行为十分恶劣。
"Receipt-receivable is the key to the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic," Yu Sonbine, head of the State Council's General Administration, said: "Receipt receivable is the key to preventing and controlling the outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
”2月9日，武汉市对确诊还未住院的新冠肺炎重症患者进行集中收治。
"On February 9, Wuhan city offered intensive care to patients diagnosed with severe Newcomial Pneumonia who had not been hospitalized.
有媒体发现，当晚在将患者转运至武汉同济医院中法新城院区的过程中，武昌区由于工作滞后、衔接无序、组织混乱，不仅转运车辆条件差，街道和社区工作人员也没有跟车服务，导致重症病人长时间等待继而情绪失控。
In the process of transferring patients to the French New Town campus of Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuchang District was found to have delayed, disjointed and disorganized, not only the poor condition of the transshipment vehicles, but also the lack of follow-up service for street and community workers, leading to prolonged waiting and loss of emotional control.
“对这一事件，中央指导组的意见是：区政府和街道要向这些患者挨个赔礼道歉，对相关责任人根据党纪政纪严肃问责。
"The Central Steering Group's opinion is that the district government and the streets should apologize to each of these patients and hold those responsible to account in accordance with Party discipline.
另外，作为区长、作为指挥长，在这件事上你应该负什么责任，要向上级写一份深刻检查。
In addition, as a district mayor, as a commander, you should be responsible for this matter, to write a thorough examination to the superiors.
”高雨说。
"said Gao Yu.
随后，中央指导组又约谈了武汉市副市长陈邂馨、武汉市洪山区区长林文书。
Subsequently, the Central Steering Group interviewed Wuhan Vice Mayor Chen Yin Xin, Wuhan Hongshan District Mayor Lin Xin.
当晚，武昌区连夜召开常委会，整改问题，处理了处置失当的相关负责人，给予相关街道负责人免职、党内警告处分、诫勉谈话处理。
In the evening, Wuchang District held a standing committee overnight to rectify the problem, deal with the improper handling of the relevant responsible persons, give relevant street leaders dismissal, disciplinary warning within the party, exhortation talks deal with.
第二天，武昌区政府领导来到医院，向2月9日晚未能被及时安置的重症病人代表当面道歉。
The next day, Wuchang District Government leadership came to the hospital, February 9 could not be promptly placed in the face of seriously ill patients representatives apologize.
同时进行的，是责令相关街道负责人逐一对受影响患者电话道歉，对受影响患者家庭也逐一道歉。
At the same time, the relevant street officials were ordered to apologize to the affected patients one by one, and to the affected families one by one.
武昌区领导要求，在组织患者到指定医疗机构入院时，必须有副区级领导干部现场协调，有街道副处级领导干部、社区干部、医护人员以专车护送。
Wuchang District leaders require that when patients are admitted to designated medical institutions, there must be on-site coordination among leading cadres at the sub-district level, with leading cadres at the level of deputy streets, community cadres and medical personnel escorted by special vehicles.
患者未完成入院手续，护送人员不得离开;患者等待入院过程中，必须积极做好患者看护、生活照料等工作。
If the patient has not been hospitalized, the escort shall not leave the hospital; the patient must actively take care of the patient and take care of the patient while waiting for admission.
2月11日凌晨，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发布第12号通告，要求武汉所有住宅小区实行封闭管理，以此进一步加强源头管控，最大限度减少人员流动，坚决阻断疫情扩散。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 11, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command issued Circular No. 12, requiring all residential districts in Wuhan to implement closed management, further strengthen source control, minimize the movement of personnel, resolutely stop the spread of the epidemic.
2月13日，湖北省发生重要人事变动，原上海市市长应勇调任湖北省委书记，蒋超良去职；原济南市市委书记王忠林调任武汉市委书记，马国强去职。
On February 13, an important personnel change occurred in Hubei Province. The former mayor of Shanghai was transferred to the post of secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee, Jiang super-liang.
湖北省卫健委的疫情统计口径在此前后发生重大变化：2月11日，湖北新增确诊病例1638例，武汉新增确诊病例1104例；2月12日，湖北新增确诊病例14840例，武汉新增确诊病例13463例。
On February 11, 1,638 new cases were confirmed in Hubei Province and 1,104 new cases were confirmed in Wuhan. On February 12, 14,840 new cases were confirmed in Hubei Province and 13,463 in Wuhan.
2月13日，湖北新增确诊病例4823例，武汉新增确诊病例3910例。
On February 13, 4,823 new cases were confirmed in Hubei and 3,910 new cases were confirmed in Wuhan.
“利空出尽是利好。
All good things come to nothing.
”这是社交媒体上主流的评论。
This is the mainstream commentary on social media.
2月13日，解放军再次增派2600名医护人员支援武汉。
On February 13, the PLA re-deployed 2,600 medical personnel to support Wuhan.
参照武汉火神山医院运行模式，承担武汉市泰康同济医院、湖北省妇幼保健院光谷院区确诊患者医疗救治任务。
Based on the operation mode of Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, we undertook the task of diagnosing patients' medical treatment in Taikang Tongji Hospital and Guanggu Hospital of Hubei Province.
此次抽组的医疗力量来自陆军、海军、空军、火箭军、战略支援部队、联勤保障部队、武警部队多个医疗单位，将分批投入支援，首批1400人于2月13日抵达武汉。
The first batch of 1,400 people arrived in Wuhan on February 13 with medical support from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Rocket Army, Strategic Support Force, United Support Force and Armed Police Force medical units.
至此，军队共派出三批次4000余名医护人员支援武汉抗疫。
So far, the PLA has sent three batches of 4,000 medical personnel to support the epidemic in Wuhan.
大政府，强社会在复杂而持续的抗疫过程中，当地政府部门和各类社会机构，亦经历了从混乱交杂到逐步分工协作的磨合过程。
Large government and strong society In the complex and continuous process of fighting the epidemic, local government departments and various social organizations have gone through a process of attrition from chaos to gradual division of labor and coordination.
武汉市善缘义助基金是一个致力于教育及儿童救助的专项基金组织。
Wuhan Shanyuan Volunteer Fund is a special fund dedicated to education and child relief.
1月22日，武汉封城前一天，善缘义助基金发起一支爱心车队，拥有上万名车主，他们的任务包括接送医护人员上下班、医院物资货运、回汉医护人员接站等。
On January 22, Wuhan, the day before the closure of the city, the Good Yuan Benevolent Aid Fund launched a loving convoy of tens of thousands of car owners, whose tasks included transporting medical workers to and from work, transporting hospital supplies and returning medical personnel to the station.
但从1月30日起，非公车辆必须有通行证才能上路。
From 30 January, however, non-official vehicles will have to have a permit to be on the road.
1月29日，爱心司机们在微信群里要求善缘义助基金帮助办理通行证，基金会秘书长张小艳思忖再三，发出公告号召司机们停止接送。
On January 29, love drivers in the micro-letter group to help apply for permits, the foundation's Secretary-General Zhang Xiaoyan repeatedly, issued a notice calling on the drivers to stop.
从1月22日开始到1月29日停运，爱心车队运行了7天。
The convoy operated for seven days from 22 January to 29 January, when it was suspended.
张小艳事后告诉《财经》记者，第一她确实没法办到通行证，另一个原因更加现实——那周疫情处于集中爆发期，安全为上。
Zhang told Caijing later that she really couldn't get a pass for another, more realistic reason - the outbreak was concentrated this week, security.
张小艳说，通行证由武汉市疫情防控指挥部统一调度，一些单位有资格发放，比如红十字会、慈善总会等官方机构，一些网约车或出租车公司通过公司资质也能申请到通行证，她所在的基金属于民间机构，虽然由武汉市慈善总会主管，但基金既无发放资质，也无申请资质。
Some units are eligible, such as the Red Cross, the General Association of Charities and other official agencies. Some online vehicles or taxi companies can also apply for a laissez-passer.
1月25日，专业网约车平台、物流公司等民间专业团队的运力全面打开，滴滴召集了超过1500名司机服务社区和医护人员，首汽约车提供了502名司机，曹操出行、东风出行等多家出行平台均在武汉组建了应急保障车队，合计超过6000台车。
On January 25, 2008, private professional teams such as professional netcar platforms and logistics companies opened up their capacity, and dribbled together more than 1,500 drivers to serve the community and medical staff, while ACV provided 502 drivers.
这个专业的爱心车队由武汉市疫情防控指挥部向社会行业紧急征集，张小艳坦言，相对于私家车主车队，专业车队更有秩序，风险可控，车主安全，综合效果更好。
Zhang admitted that compared with the private car owner's team, the professional team is more orderly, controllable, safe and more effective.
善缘义助车队运行的7天间，张小艳一直处于焦虑中。
Zhang Xiaoyan has been in a state of anxiety during the seven days of the Good Yuan relief convoy.
车主接送医护人员上下班，防护全靠自己，在防护物资缺乏的当时，基金会能做的，只是在群里不断提醒他们“接的趟数不要太多”。
Owners take their staff to and from work on their own. At a time when supplies were scarce, all the foundation could do was constantly remind them "not to make too many trips."
网约车志愿司机的安全防护更加系统到位，每一单前后都需要完成规定的一系列防护流程，包括喷洒消毒液、通风，测量乘客体温、乘客上车前的例行消毒等。
The safety protection system of volunteer drivers is more systematic, and each order needs to complete a series of prescribed protection procedures, including spraying disinfectant, ventilation, temperature measurement and routine disinfection before passengers get on the bus.
全套防疫动作，每天要重复三四次。
Repeat the full routine three or four times a day.
借助互联网平台的力量，网约车的连接效率也更高。
With the power of the Internet platform, the efficiency of network cars is also higher.
他们赶制了专门针对约8000名医护人员的特殊程序，植入App后台，医护人员通过App就能叫车，省掉了人工匹配的过程。
They created special programs for about 8,000 health-care workers to be implanted in the App backstage, where health-care workers can call the car through the App, eliminating the need for manual matching.
当灾害导致市场与政府失灵时，志愿者往往能填补遗憾。
When disasters cause markets and governments to fail, volunteers often fill in the gap.
北京大学非营利法研究中心主任金锦萍认为，本次疫情防治中，志愿服务因其灵活性、贴近个体、及时发现并填补盲区等特色，彰显了难以替代的功能。
Jin Jinping, director of the Center for Non-Profit Law at Peking University, said volunteerism's flexibility, closeness to individuals, timely discovery and filling blind spots highlighted irreplaceable functions.
武汉封城期的出行志愿服务分两个阶段：其一，在1月23日武汉道路交通按下“暂停键”后，个人、社会团体踊跃自发参与、雪中送炭；其二，疫情进入爆发期后，以专业出行公司为主的志愿者车队大展身手，政府牵头、企业出力，基本保证了武汉的基础运力。
Wuhan closed the city of travel in two stages: the first, on January 23, Wuhan road traffic press the "pause", individuals and social groups actively participate in the snow, the second, the outbreak of the main professional travel companies, the team of volunteers, led by the government, enterprises to contribute to ensure the basic capacity of Wuhan.
但在武汉和外界连接更加密切的物资捐助方面，作为捐赠物资的中转枢纽，湖北和武汉红十字会孱弱的调配能力却引发广泛质疑乃至愤怒。
But the weak deployment capacity of the Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross Societies, as transit hubs for donated goods, has raised widespread doubts and even anger over Wuhan's closer material contributions.
与武汉“封城”几乎同时发生的是医疗物资梗阻。
The medical obstruction occurred almost simultaneously with the "closure" of Wuhan.
即便是SARS时期，也没有出现医疗物资如此短缺的情况——医院缺乏足够的医用口罩、防护服、护目镜等一线物资，医生和护士只能与病毒“肉搏”，导致伤亡惨重。
Even during the SARS period, there was no such shortage of medical supplies - hospitals lacked sufficient medical masks, protective clothing, goggles and other first-line items, and doctors and nurses had to "fight" the virus, causing heavy casualties.
这种情况在2月初之前尤其突出。
This was particularly the case before the beginning of February.
与此同时，捐赠物资却在武汉市红十字会（下称“武汉红会”）租用的临时仓库武汉国际博览中心（下称“国博”）堆积如山。
Meanwhile, donations are piling up at Wuhan International Expo Center, a temporary warehouse rented by Wuhan Red Cross Society (Wuhan Red Cross Society).
1月28日，《财经》记者在国博看到，大量外援物资滞留、红会工作人员手工录单，冒领、领不到现象非常严重。
On January 28, Caijing reporter saw in Guobao, a large number of foreign aid materials stranded, the Red Cross staff manual tape, fake, non-receipt of the phenomenon is very serious.
1月29日，多家武汉一线医院通过社交媒体向外呼吁：防护物资不是告急，而是“完全没有了”！红会仓库里存放的物资，既有定向捐赠的，也有不定向捐赠的。
On January 29, Wuhan first-tier hospitals launched a social media outcry: protective materials are not in a hurry, but "not at all!" The stock in the Red Cross warehouse consists of both targeted donations and non-targeted donations.
武汉协和医院工作人员拿着齐全的证明文件到国博领取定向捐赠物资，却只能空手而归。
Wuhan Association and hospital staff with complete documentation to the National Expo to receive targeted donations, but can only return empty-handed.
与此同时，协和的医生护士们却穿着以医用垃圾袋改造的简易防护服上“战场”。
Concorde's doctors and nurses, meanwhile, wore improvised protective clothing made from medical garbage bags.
一位现场目击者告诉《财经》记者，1月29日，由于迟迟拿不到批文，协和医院的一辆货车冲进国博仓库装了38箱口罩要拉走。
A live witness told Caijing that on January 29, a Concorde hospital lorry rushed into the Gobo warehouse with 38 boxes of masks to be removed because of delays in getting approval.
但和外界疯传的红会百般阻挠不同，在协和医院货车抢货之前，红会现场人员尽其所能联系指挥部争取放行。
But unlike the outside world's frantic Red Cross Society, the Red Cross field staff tried to contact the command post for clearance before the Concorde van snatched the goods.
武汉红会工作人员多次对媒体表示，红会的职能就是收，没有权力发，只能按照卫健委的指示办，“我们不承担分配任务。
Wuhan Red Cross staff repeatedly told the media that the function of the ICRC is to collect, no power to issue, can only follow the instructions of the Health Commission, "we do not bear the distribution of tasks.
”知情人士向《财经》记者透露，物资分配权实由武汉市疫情防控指挥部管控，但是与之相关的物资发放流程和给谁不给谁的原则却并不清晰，导致物资发放人员无所适从。
A person familiar with the matter told Caijing that the distribution rights were actually controlled by Wuhan city's epidemic prevention and control command, but the related distribution process and the principle of who should not be given to whom were unclear, leading to confusion among those who dispensed the supplies.
就物资发放问题，湖北省疫情防控指挥部曾向武汉市疫情防控指挥中心发文，要求“两个小时内必须发放物资”，但这项要求并未落实。
As for the distribution of materials, the Hubei Provincial Command of Disease Control and Prevention sent a letter to the Wuhan Municipal Command Center asking for "materials to be distributed within two hours," but the request was not implemented.
初期，国博仓库的现场指挥长是武汉市统计局党组书记孟武康、副指挥长包括武汉市统计局夏国华等人。
At the beginning, the director of the warehouse was Meng Wukang, secretary of the Wuhan Bureau of Statistics, and Xia Guohua, deputy commander of the bureau.
具体的物资接收和调度则由多个部门负责：武汉市统计局统筹调度现场工作，武汉市物流局负责统一安排捐赠物资转运，武汉市卫健委和武汉市红会负责联络接收捐赠物资、出入库信息管理、制定物资分配清单、协调物资出库等。
The Wuhan Bureau of Statistics is responsible for coordinating the dispatch of materials, the Wuhan Municipal Logistics Bureau is responsible for arranging the transfer of donated materials, and the Wuhan Health Commission and Wuhan Red Cross Society are responsible for receiving donations, managing information from and to warehouses, drawing up material distribution lists and coordinating the delivery of materials.
一份武汉市委的内部文件指出，中间环节过多是物资梗阻的重要原因。
An internal document of Wuhan Municipal Committee points out that too many intermediate links are an important cause of material obstruction.
从向指挥部申请，到送达救治医院，需要走完红会登记入库、卫健委初拟分配方案、市指挥部审核备案、质监部门查验物资、红会组织物流发送等环节，全部流程需要近两天时间。
From the application to the headquarters, to the arrival of the hospital, the Red Cross will need to register into the warehouse, the proposed distribution plan, the city headquarters audit and record, the quality supervision departments inspection materials, the Red Cross organizations logistics and other links, the entire process will take nearly two days.
这与捐赠方的效率形成巨大反差。
This contrasts sharply with the efficiency of donors.
从1月25日至1月30日，上海复星集团从全球采购14吨医疗物资，其中医用口罩超过33万个，医用防护服超过27万件。
From January 25 to January 30, Shanghai Fuxing Group purchased 14 tons of medical supplies from around the world, including more than 330,000 medical masks and over 270,000 medical suits.
从1月24日除夕夜启动采购到1月29日凌晨物资运抵武汉，这家企业只花了4天零2个小时。
It took the company only four days and two hours from the start of the purchase on January 24 to the dawn of January 29 in Wuhan.
2月1日，武汉疫情防控指挥部指派湖北省最大的民营企业之一九州通医药集团股份有限公司（600998.SH，下称九州通）协助红会处理物资发放，4个来自九州通的医疗物流专业人员，与武汉红十字会、武汉市卫健委及武汉市市场监督管理局的工作人员一起，指挥调度仓库员工，24小时轮值。
On February 1, Wuhan Epidemic Prevention and Control Command appointed one of Hubei Province's largest private enterprises, Kyushu Tong Pharmaceutical Group Co. Ltd. (600998.SH), to assist the ICRC in handling the distribution of goods.
2月2日下午，九州通正式接手武汉红十字会物资派发工作，介入国博物资现场组织领导的还有华科校友会负责人。
February 2 afternoon, Kyushu officially took over Wuhan Red Cross material distribution work, involving the National Expo materials field organization led by the Alumni Association of China.
《财经》记者获悉，九州通接管后，出入库流程有所改变，物资入库后，九州通查验送货单，对入库的货物分类，即时提供库存物资详细清单，武汉市卫健委在收到九州通公司的库存清单后，在2个小时内给出分配计划，九州通按计划分拣后，交由专职部门配送。
After the goods were put into storage, Kyushu checked the delivery list, sorted the goods put into storage, and provided the detailed inventory list immediately. After receiving the inventory list of Kyushu Tong Company, Wuhan Health Care Commission gave the distribution plan within 2 hours.
有国博现场工作人员告诉《财经》记者，这个流程可以将物资出入库时间从过去的两天缩短到几个小时。
Staff at the Expo site told Caijing that the process could shorten the storage time from day to day from the past two days to a few hours.
九州通接手之后依然没有物资发放权，关键的变化是武汉市卫健委在收到物资清单后，将拟定分配方案的时间缩短到了两个小时。
Kyushu took over after still do not have material issue authority, the key change is Wuhan city health committee after receiving goods list, the time that draws up distribution plan was shortened to 2 hours.
2月4日，武汉市纪委监委通报，免去夏国华武汉市统计局党组成员、副局长职务，并给予其党内严重警告、政务记大过处分；对武汉市发改委党组书记、主任，市统计局党组书记、局长孟武康和武汉市政府办公厅副主任黄志彤予以诫勉谈话。
On February 4, the MRC of Wuhan City Disciplinary Commission informed him that he had dismissed members and deputy chairmen of the Bureau of Statistics of Xia Guohua and given them severe warning and severe punishment.
当天，湖北省纪委监委也公开通报：因为在疫情防控期间接收和分配捐赠款物工作中存在不担当不作为、违反“三重一大”规定、信息公开错误等失职失责问题，湖北省红会三名厅级官员被问责。
On the same day, the Hubei Provincial Disciplinary Committee publicly informed that three bureau-level officials of the Hubei Red Cross Society were held accountable for their inaction in receiving and distributing donations during the prevention and control of the epidemic, violation of the "triple big" regulation and errors in information disclosure.
免去张钦省红十字会党组成员、专职副会长职务，并给予其党内严重警告、政务记大过处分；给予省红十字会党组成员陈波党内严重警告、政务记大过处分；给予省红十字会党组书记、常务副会长高勤党内警告处分。
He has given severe warning and punishment to Chen Bo, a member of the provincial Red Cross Party group, and given disciplinary warning and punishment to Gao Qin, the secretary and permanent vice-president of the provincial Red Cross Party.
复盘可见，第一，红会在处理物资发放效率方面确实不专业；第二，将前期物资堰塞完全归咎于红会不公平。
The counter-offer shows, first, that the Red Cross is indeed unprofessional in dealing with the efficiency of material distribution, and, secondly, that it would be unfair to blame the Red Cross solely for the initial material barrier.
扭转局面的关键，除了九州通的专业能力，还有政府部门在压力之下大幅提升了效率。
The key to turning the tide is that, in addition to Kyushu's expertise, government departments have greatly increased efficiency under pressure.
北京师范大学中国公益研究院院长王振耀密切关注此次抗击疫情中的物资捐赠和分配，他此前曾担任国家民政部救灾救济司、社会福利和慈善事业促进司司长，汶川地震、SARS时期，他均在任上参与调度物资。
Wang Zhenyao, director of the China Institute of Public Welfare at Beijing Normal University, who served as director of the Disaster Relief Department and the Department for the Promotion of Social Welfare and Philanthropy of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was involved in dispatching supplies during the Wenchuan earthquake and the SARS period.
王振耀分析，和解决出行需求类似，解决医疗物资需求也经历了三个阶段：初期，民间捐赠的物资满足了应急需求；中间阶段是民间力量配合政府；第三阶段，政府力量逐渐占据主导，民间捐赠成为重要后备力量。
Wang Zhenyao's analysis, similar to addressing the travel needs, also went through three stages: in the beginning, civilian donations met emergency needs; in the intermediate stage, civilian forces worked with the government; and in the third phase, government forces gradually took over, with private donations becoming an important reserve.
关于此次疫情的社会物资捐赠和调度，王振耀认为，医疗物资支援的清单系统完全可以依赖大数据等科技手段建立。
With regard to the donation and dispatch of medical materials, Wang believed that the medical material support inventory system can rely on big data and other technological means.
各地详细列明医疗物资的需求，并结合患者人数动态化呈现，其中特别需要注明需要国家层面协调解决的物品数量。
Medical needs are detailed and presented in relation to the dynamics of patient numbers, with special reference to the number of items requiring coordinated solutions at the national level.
企业、公益团体和社会个人，在政府主导下形成合力，公开透明。
Enterprises, public welfare organizations and individuals in society work together under the leadership of the government and are transparent and open.
这样，政府确保基本供应，民间慈善和医院对接紧急捐赠，医院有灵活资金还可以激活采购。
In this way, the Government ensures basic supplies, private charities and hospitals respond to emergency donations, and the availability of flexible funds in hospitals also activates procurement.
结合此次教训，想要充分激活民间力量，政府和慈善组织可以做得更多。
With this lesson in mind, governments and charities can do much more to activate civil society.
比如，定向捐赠应尊重捐赠人的意愿，但在前期意向捐赠联系中可以协调、引导捐赠人捐赠给物资更紧缺的医院，而不是物资到了之后再协调。
For example, targeted donations should respect donors "wishes, but donors can be co-ordinated and directed to hospitals with more scarce supplies in early-stage donor contacts, rather than coordinated when supplies arrive.
和17年前的非典、12年前的汶川地震等大型灾难时不同，2020年中国的通信、互联网、大数据和人工智能技术已经相当先进。
Unlike major disasters like SARS 17 years ago and the Wenchuan earthquake 12 years ago, China's telecommunications, Internet, big data, and artificial intelligence technologies are already fairly advanced in 2020.
但多位接受《财经》记者采访的科技行业人士指出，疫情爆发早期，除了三大电信运营商每日向政府相关部门提供全国人群移动情况大数据外，更多的中国科技公司如阿里、腾讯、京东、滴滴、美团、顺丰等，其力量没有被及时调用。
But in the early days of the outbreak, more Chinese technology companies, such as Ali, Tencent, Jingdong, Ditto, Mei Tuan and Shunfeng, were not mobilized in time, in addition to the big data on the movement of people across the country provided daily by the three major telecom operators to relevant government departments.
短暂的滞后期过后，新技术开始被利用。
After a short time lag, new technologies began to be used.
在湖北的相邻省份河南，省会郑州在武汉疫情爆发后第一时间找到阿里云搭建数据中台，在此基础上汇集数据，建立摸排系统、返郑人员信息登记系统。
In the neighboring province of Henan in Hubei Province, the provincial capital Zhengzhou first found the data center of the construction data after the outbreak of the epidemic in Wuhan, on the basis of which to compile data, establish a mapping system, Zheng personnel information registration system.
数据中台会生成一份重点关注名单，这份名单需要落实到各基层、区、街道和社区。
The DTT generates a focused list of concerns that needs to be implemented at the grassroots, district, street and community levels.
如果沿用老办法，危急时期，政府职能人员之间通常会采用微信、U盘等方式来传输。
If the old method is followed, in times of crisis, government functionaries will usually use micro-letter, U disk and other means of transmission.
它们的缺点很明显：其一，使用微信传输，用户的数据信息很可能被泄露；其二，使用U盘传送太慢。
Their disadvantages are obvious: first, the use of micromail transmission, the user's data information is likely to be leaked; second, the use of U-disk transmission is too slow.
阿里云为此开发了摸排系统，这是一个轻量级开发程序，上线快，名单导入后，基层摸排员在手机上就可以用管理员账号进入，解决问题。
Ali Yun developed a mapping system for this purpose, which is a lightweight development program, fast on-line, after the list is imported, the grass-roots mapping staff can use the administrator account on the mobile phone to access, solve problems.
一位大数据架构师向《财经》记者表示，应对大型灾难性需要政府建立应急大数据调度系统，如大数据指挥平台、应急物流交通平台、应急物资保障平台等。
A big data architect told Caijing that dealing with large-scale disasters requires governments to set up emergency big data dispatching systems, such as large data command platforms, emergency logistics transportation platforms and emergency supplies support platforms.
做到关键数据高效汇总、应急物资精准投放、城市紧急交通调度畅通，如此才能提高疫情应对的指挥效率。
In order to improve the command efficiency of epidemic response, we should collect key data efficiently, deliver emergency supplies accurately and dispatch urban emergency traffic smoothly.
2020年1月底，清华大学未来实验室马兆远团队利用人工智能（AI）系统建立了全国疫情扩散预测模型。
At the end of January 2020, Ma Zhaoyuan's team at Tsinghua University's Future Laboratories used artificial intelligence (AI) systems to build a national epidemic spread prediction model.
《财经》记者了解到，深圳南山区政府已利用这套模型来规划该区的复工节奏。
Caijing reporter learned that the Shenzhen Nanshan District Government has used this model to plan the resumption of work rhythm.
并非尾声2月15日下午，武汉风雪交加。
Not the end of February 15 afternoon, Wuhan snow and wind.
位于武昌区东湖路的武汉大学中南医院发热门诊，靠墙的连排座椅上坐着寥寥无几的患者，全副武装的医护人员略显闲散，其中一些人这两天才从其他科室调到发热门诊。
There were few sufferers sitting in row seats next to the wall, and heavily armed medical staff were slightly idle. Some of them had to be transferred from other sections to the fever clinic in the past two days.
十天前，这里的椅子上坐满了病人，站立者也排着长队。
Ten days ago, the chairs were full of sick people and there were long lines of standing people.
2020年2月15日下午，武汉大学中南医院的CT室正在做新冠肺炎检测。
On the afternoon of February 15, 2020, the CT room of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital was doing a new crown pneumonia test.
摄影/本刊记者 王小“都不让出门了，病人自然少了。
Photography / this print reporter Wang Xiao "are not allowed to go out, natural fewer patients.
”一位医护人员对《财经》记者说。
"A medical worker told Caijing.
医学院在读生许月的父母都感染了新冠肺炎，好在母亲已经痊愈出院，父亲也住进了医院。
Her parents, both of whom were born in medical school, contracted pneumonia, but her mother was cured and her father was hospitalized.
医生李鹏2月15日又给自己做了一次CT，没有问题。
Doctor Li Peng February 15 to do himself a CT, no problem.
此时距离他接诊第一个发热病人已经过去了一个月。
A month had passed since he had received his first fever.
志愿者王琛担心下雪会影响交通，2月16日上午会有一批捐给医院的蔬菜抵达，一共30万斤，他负责对接。
Volunteers Wang Chen worried about snow will affect the traffic, February 16 morning a batch of vegetables donated to the hospital arrived, a total of 300,000 jin, he docked.
“从来没见过这么多菜。
"I've never seen so much.
”王琛说。
"said Wang Chen.
但他更期待的还是武汉解封的时刻，以及疫情真正过去的那一天。
But what he looked forward to was Wuhan's moment of unsealing, and the day when the epidemic really passed.
尽管盼着早点复工，但首汽约车的专车司机蔡师傅并不相信2月20日会解除“封城”，“疫情还这么重，怎么也得到2月底3月初了吧。
While hoping to get back to work earlier, Cai Shifu, a SAIC charter driver, did not believe that the city would be closed on February 20.
”首汽约车“封城”后提供志愿出行服务，蔡师傅一直在当志愿司机。
Cai has been serving as a volunteer driver after the first bus was "closed".
公司按全日租业务（相当于包车）给司机们结算费用，这个业务平时一天400元，疫期一天800元。
The company pays the drivers a full-time lease (equivalent to a charter car), which usually costs 400 yuan a day and 800 yuan a day.
1月29日，湖北省政府通知：全省各类企业复工时间不早于2月13日24时；各类学校延期开学，具体开学时间视疫情防控情况确定。
On January 29, the Hubei provincial government announced that all kinds of enterprises in the province would resume work no earlier than 2400 hours on February 13.
2月15日，省会武汉还没有复工的迹象。
On February 15, Wuhan, the provincial capital, showed no sign of resuming work.
一位在人防部门供职的公务员强烈反对近期复工。
A civil servant working for the Civil Defence Department has strongly opposed resuming work in the near future.
“我不去上班，这是自投罗网。
"I'm not going to work.
”她对《财经》记者说。
'she told Caijing.
不管早晚，上班总会继续，“封城”总会结束，也会如《鼠疫》结尾描写的那样：城门打开时，人们仿佛重获新生， 尽情享受重逢的快乐。
Sooner or later, work will continue, the "seal" will end, as The Plague ends: when the gates are opened, people seem to regain their lives and enjoy the reunion.
但在付出了这么惨痛的代价之后，我们应当不会一模一样地回到从前了。
But after paying such a heavy price, we should not be the same again.
（应被访者要求，文中刘林、张旭、周学、刘白、孙晨、罗忆、刘梅、李鹏、王帆为化名）（本文首刊于2020年2月17日出版的《财经》杂志）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(At the request of the interviewee, Liu Lin, Zhang Xu, Zhou Xue, Liu Bai, Sun Chen, Liu Yi, Liu Mei, Li Peng, Wang Fan as aliases) (This article was first published in Caijing on February 17, 2020).
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周 |《财经》封面。
Saving Wuhan: The toughest three weeks of service at Caijing ever since the city was sealed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周 |《财经》封面";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一座人口过千万的超级大都市在突降灾疫后陷入休克，然后艰难走出混乱无望";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
