疫情期的线上课堂，“舍命免费”背后的诱惑和威胁。
Outbreak of the online classroom, "sacrifice free of charge" behind the temptation and threat.
陈潇潇 王凤。
Chen Xiaoxiao Wang Feng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
没有足够好的在线体验，用户只会短期对“免费”忠诚，风暴过后，可能一地鸡毛文|《财经》记者 陈潇潇 王凤 编辑|谢丽容“不工作哪来饭吃。
Without a good online experience, users will only be loyal to "free" in the short term. After the storm, there may be a place at least once Ren Xiaoxiao Wang, editor and Feng Wang of Caijing.
”电话那头，不时传来噼里啪啦的键盘声。
At the other end of the line there was a patter of keyboards.
学霸君CEO张凯磊嗓子有些嘶哑，从大年初二起，每天9点开始晨会，一天20个视频会议。
Zhang Kailei's voice hoarse from the beginning of the new year, starting at 9 o'clock every morning, 20 videoconferences a day.
2月3日，公司已全员线上复工。
The company resumed work on 3 February at full capacity.
这应该是武汉疫情期间，大部分在线教育公司的状态。
This should be Wuhan during the epidemic, the majority of online education companies in the state.
武汉疫情肆虐后，教育部下发通知，不仅延期全国中小学生开学，各培训机构也取消了线下课程。
Wuhan after the epidemic, the Ministry of Education issued a circular not only to postpone the opening of primary and secondary schools nationwide, but also to cancel the offline training institutions.
寒假末端至恢复开学前的空档，成为了教培机构的修罗场。
Winter vacation to the end of the resumption of the pre-school slot, has become the training institutions of the workshop.
学校无法按时开学，线上教育成了学生和家长唯一的选择。
Schools do not start school on time, and online education is the only option for students and parents.
去年夏天，张凯磊感慨，在线教育的赛道无数条，但每条只有5厘米宽。
Last summer, Zhang lamented that there were countless online education tracks, but each was only 5cm wide.
大部分创业公司只能在教育巨头和线下机构之间的夹缝中生存。
Most start-ups survive only between the education giants and offline institutions.
现在，疫情突然把赛道拓宽了，风口变成了风暴。
Now, suddenly, the epidemic has widened the circuit and turned the windpipe into a storm.
从大年初一开始，几乎每天都有一家在线教育公司宣称将针对疫情，开设直播课程。
Almost every day since the New Year's Day, an online education company announced that it would offer live programs in response to the outbreak.
作业帮、猿辅导、学而思网校等与课堂紧密关联的K12机构，先后将免费直播课从武汉推广到全国。
The K12, which is closely linked to the classroom, such as Homework, Apes Counselling and Learning to Think Cyber, has expanded its free live lessons from Wuhan to the whole country.
满足突如其来的刚需等于抓住了风暴。
Satisfying unexpected needs is tantamount to seizing a storm.
学霸君原本还在筹备阶段的大班直播课紧急上线了，比预计提前了三个月到半年。
The master had been in the preparatory phase of the large-scale class on-line emergency, three months to six months ahead of schedule.
“本来还有很多测试、反馈要听。
"There was a lot of testing and feedback to listen to.
”张凯磊说，连助教都还没招聘到位。
Not even teaching assistants are in place, Zhang said.
一个助教本来只带40个学生，现在要带200个。
A teaching assistant, who used to bring only 40 students, now has 200.
即使跟教育不沾边的公司，也跃跃欲试。
Companies that aren't even remotely educated are eager to try.
拉勾网做起了职业教育，游戏直播虎牙也开始依托直播技术优势，开通在线教育服务。
Hook network started vocational education, the game live tiger tooth also began to rely on the advantages of live broadcast technology, open online education services.
策略都是免费。
Strategies are free of charge.
为了应急，线下教育机构也开始往线上转，他们的普遍观点是，转了不一定活，但不转死得更惨。
In order to respond to emergencies, offline educational institutions have also begun to turn online, with the general view that life may not change, but death is worse.
外界看到的是，在线教育可能是这场疫情中最大的赢家，所有人不可逆地往前走了一步，但各家跑马圈地后，考验才真正开始。
What has been seen is that online education may be the biggest winner in the epidemic, and that everyone is taking an irreversible step forward, but the trials do not really begin until the horses are on the fence.
机会是大家的，能不能抓住机会，是个人的造化。
Opportunity is everybody's, can seize the opportunity, is the individual creation.
线下机构：应急求生大年初一，乐斯教育创始人兼CEO宫旭生召开紧急会议，决心将全部音乐课程转到线上。
On the first day of the year, Yosheng Miyazu, founder and CEO of Leslie Education, held an emergency meeting and decided to put the whole music program online.
“没有选择的余地了。
"There is no choice.
”他对《财经》记者说。
'he told Caijing.
乐斯教育是一家线下儿童音乐培训公司，为2500家连锁加盟店提供教材和课程设计服务。
Leslie Education is an offline children's music training company that provides teaching materials and curriculum design for 2,500 franchises.
疫情发生后，门店尽数关门，陷入了无米之炊。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, all the stores closed, fell into a rice-free cookout.
线下教育是一个滚现金流的业务，运营靠用户的提前付费维持。
Off-line education is a cash-flow business, operating on the user's prepaid maintenance.
现在没有了收入，门店租金、人员成本轮番敲打这家成立不到四年的公司。
With no income, store rents and staff costs are being pummeled on the company, which has been in existence for less than four years.
“3月如果不恢复正常，前几个月的预付费就滚完了，很多连锁店维持起来很困难。
"If things don't get back to normal in March, the upfront fees of the last few months will roll away, making it difficult for many chains to maintain."
”乐斯教育河北省的一家门店员工对《财经》记者说道。
"Les educated an employee at a store in Hebei province," Caijing told Caijing.
“老板认为疫情过后业务就能继续，但前提是，你的现金流能撑过去。
"The boss thinks the business can continue after the epidemic, but only if your cash flow will hold up.
”已经有线下机构倒下了。
The offline mechanism had fallen.
2月6日晚，线下IT培训机构“兄弟连教育”创始人李超发文称，疫情“对资金储备少、包袱重、一直亏损的兄弟连教育无疑是雪上加霜”。
On the night of Feb. 6, Li Chaofa, founder of the offline IT training firm Brothers and Education, said the outbreak "has made matters worse for a brother who has been losing money because of his low financial reserves."
兄弟连原本财务状况就不够健康，原来的打算是年前勒紧腰带，年后要打个翻身仗。
Brother even the original financial health is not enough, the original intention is to tighten the belt before the year after a battle.
现在，兄弟连北京校区已停止招生，员工全部遣散。
Now, brother even the Beijing campus has stopped enrolling students, all employees have been discharged.
即便是老牌大型教育机构，如新东方，也受到了冲击。
Even big established educational institutions, such as New Oriental, have been hit.
疫情之后，线下课堂全面停课，波及了上百万的寒假班学生。
In the wake of the epidemic, classes were suspended offline, affecting millions of students in winter and summer classes.
新东方CEO俞敏洪在其个人公号上发文称，“如果新东方全部停课退费，新东方就只能关门大吉，七八万老师员工的生计，立刻就成了问题”。
"If all classes are suspended, New Oriental will have to close down and the livelihood of 780,000 teachers and staff will be in question," Chief Executive Officer Michael Ming Hou Yu said in a statement on his official website.
留住原有客户，撑到疫情结束，成为了线下机构需要解决的共同问题。
Retention of the original customers, support to the end of the epidemic, has become a common problem to be resolved offline institutions.
他们的共同策略是线下转到线上。
Their common strategy is to switch offline to the line.
此时，以新东方、好未来为首的教育巨头发起了一波线上免费攻势。
At this time, New Oriental, the education giant headed by a good future launched a wave of free offensive line.
两家旗下的在线机构开始针对中小学生同步免费直播，以好未来为例，其线下两个教育机构“学而思培优”和“学而思网校”联手推出了针对全国中小学生免费同步课。
The two online organizations began to broadcast free simultaneous broadcasts to primary and secondary school students, taking the example of the two online educational institutions "Learn to Think Peiyou" and "Learn to Think Cyber," which launched free and synchronized classes for primary and middle school students nationwide.
学而思网校从一开始就针对线上教育，有强大的线上教育技术积累，学而思培优是好未来集团的教育研发主力，两家机构在普通用户的眼中常常“傻傻分不清”，学而思相关人士对《财经》表示，这次联手，网校为培优提供了技术支持，学而思培优则贡献了更加丰富专业的课件内容。
We have a strong online education technology accumulation, and Si-Peiyou is the leading educational research and development force of the Good Future Group. The two institutions are often "dumb" in the eyes of ordinary users, Caijing told Caijing that the school has provided technical support to Peiyou and Si Peiyou contributed more rich and professional courseware.
另一方面，免费的网课平台虽然没有收入，但可以为两家机构获取新客提供资源。
On the other hand, the free online course platform, while not generating revenue, could provide resources for the two institutions to acquire new customers.
华创资本投资人王道平对《财经》表示，确实有应急的需求，但这次疫情进一步提高了巨头们转型的意识。
Huacheng Capital Investor Wang Daoping told Caijing that there was indeed a need for emergency response, but the outbreak has further raised the awareness of the giants to transform.
往线上转型是这两年教育巨头一直在做的事情。
Going online is what the education giants have been doing for the last two years.
好未来认为，在线教育是大势所趋。
Good future thinks, online education is the general trend.
2018年暑假，好未来首次大力推广学而思网校后，销售和市场费用一直在猛增。
After 2018 summer vacation, good future popularizes academic thinking net school energetically for the first time, sale and market cost have been surging.
财报显示，2018年6月至8月好未来的销售和市场费用猛增159.4%，达到1.517亿美元。
Financial results show a 159.4 per cent jump in sales and market costs to $151.7 million for the good future from June to August 2018.
其中大部分花在了学而思网校的广告投放上。
Most of the money is spent on advertising for online schools.
大机构现金流和抗风险能力强，也有转型的诉求，中小机构转线上更多是为了求生，他们大多没有自己的线上技术能力，只能借助第三方平台。
Large institutions with strong cash flow and risk resistance, but also have the appeal of transformation, small and medium-sized institutions on the line more to survive, most of them do not have their own online technical capacity, can only rely on a third-party platform.
宫旭生对《财经》记者强调，“线上方案是拿来应急的。
"The online plan is for the emergency," Miyazhu told Caijing.
”据《财经》记者了解，受疫情影响，包括好未来直播云、腾讯课堂、ClassIn等第三方技术平台都开始向中小线下机构提供免费直播服务。
According to Caijing, third-party technology platforms, including Live Future Cloud, Tencent Classroom and ClassIn, are all beginning to offer free live streaming services to their offline counterparts.
“需求很旺盛，因为没有人想死。
"Demand is strong because no one wants to die.
”张凯磊对《财经》说。
'Mr. Zhang told Caijing.
学霸君这次也开始为全国范围内的中小机构提供直播服务。
The bully also began to provide live broadcast services to small and medium-sized organizations nationwide.
目前平台上已经上线了100家。
So far 100 platforms have been put on line.
不过，对于大多数中小机构而言，转线上很仓促，一来技术不熟练，二是效果也不明确。
However, for most small and medium-sized institutions, the transfer line is very hasty, one is not skilled, and the other is not clear effect.
北京一家中型英语培训机构的教师告诉《财经》记者，机构决定转线上后，“大部分家长配合，但也有一些家长担心线上课程伤眼，还是退课了。
A teacher at a medium-sized English-language training institute in Beijing told Caijing that the agency decided to switch to other classes. "Most parents cooperate, but some parents worry that the online classes will hurt their eyes and still drop out
”如果说这种类型的客户流失还可以接受，另一种客户流失的情况就更加让人焦虑，同一个赛道中的其他教育机构一窝蜂上线后，纷纷推出优惠活动，有些甚至免费，客户在比较之后，不少选择了免费课程。
If this type of customer churn is acceptable, another type of customer churn is even more worrying, with other educational institutions in the same circuit rushing into the market offering offers, some of which are free, and many of them have opted for free courses after comparison.
这带来一个微妙的潜在风险——如果那个平台的授课水平达到客户预期，疫情过后，这个客户可能就留在该平台继续付费使用，那么这个客户就算是彻底流失了。
There is a subtle potential risk that if the platform is taught at a level that the customer expects, the customer will remain on the platform for a fee after the outbreak, and the customer is considered to have lost all of his money.
北京妈妈陈熙的孩子今年四年级，今年4月要参加英语KET考试，寒假结束之前，她为孩子报名了学而思培优的线下英语寒假课程。
Beijing mother Chen Xi's children in fourth grade, this April to take an English KET exam, before the end of the winter vacation, she registered her children to study and think Pei-excel online English winter vacation courses.
当疫情袭来，学而思培优第一时间决定将线下课转为线上授课。
When the epidemic hit, Sep-Peiyou first decided to switch from offline classes to online classes.
陈熙犹豫了。
Chen Xi hesitated.
线上课程不如线下课程互动性好，通常老师讲解，孩子们在聊天区用打字回复：666，是、否，等简单的回应代码，并不能实时语音互动。
Online courses are not as interactive as offline courses, and teachers usually explain and children type back in the chat area: 666, yes, no, etc. Simple response code, not real-time voice interaction.
一个班级20个孩子，这种量级的互动很难保持孩子的学习效率。
With 20 children in a class, this level of interaction is difficult to maintain the child's learning efficiency.
一番对比之下，陈熙选择了另一家主打小班互动的线上机构。
Chen Xi, by contrast, chose another line agency to interact with the smaller players.
学费对比前者翻了四番，但一个班只有8个孩子，老师看得见孩子，孩子看得见老师，视频语音互动，课堂小组交流，在效率和费用之间，陈熙选择了效率。
Fees quadrupled, but in a class of only eight children, the teacher could see the child, the child could see the teacher, video voice interaction, classroom group communication, Chen Xi chose efficiency between efficiency and cost.
线上教育创业公司：赌一把？线下教育的冬天让线上教育瞬间进入了夏天。
Online educational startups: Gamble? The winter of offline education has brought online education instantaneously into summer.
作业帮CEO侯建彬预感用户数据会上涨，但没想到会井喷。
Hou Jian Bin job help CEO Hou Jian Bin presentiment user data will rise, but did not expect blowout.
服务器突然不够用了。
The server is suddenly out of commission.
2月4日，作业帮免费直播课开课的第二天，全国报名人数激增到了500万。
On February 4, the day after Homework's free live program opened, the national enrollment surged to 5 million.
又过了一天，数据开始翻倍。
Another day later, the numbers began to double.
公司不得不又紧急投入了上百台服务器。
The company had to put in hundreds more servers on an emergency basis.
另一家在家教育公司猿辅导，开播头几天，也涌进了几百万用户。
Another homeschooling company, Apes Tutoring, also reached millions of users in the first few days of broadcasting.
在平时，要引来如此规模的用户流量，没有几十亿的营销费和精细化运营，想都不要想。
In peacetime, to attract such a scale of user traffic, there are no billions of marketing fees and refined operation, do not want to think.
这两年，线上教育本来就是一个热得发烫的风口。
These two years, online education is already a hot air vent.
头部公司为了拉新投入的费用惊人。
The cost to the head company of bringing in new money is staggering.
去年暑假，有人测算，头部选手每天总投入可能超过1000万元。
Last summer holiday, it was estimated that the total amount of head players per day may exceed 10 million yuan.
但课程价格又十分感人，猿辅导在去年暑假推出“49元暑期系统班”，作业帮当时跟进了50元特惠班课程。
But the cost of the course was very impressive. Last summer, the APE introduced the 49-yuan Summer School, and homework helped follow up on the $50 ex-gratia course.
到了去年6月，学而思网校也加入战场，推出“49元暑期试听课”。
In June last year, the school also joined the battlefield, launched "49 yuan summer examination to listen to the course."
一位业内人士对《财经》统计，去年暑假三家公司总共烧掉了20亿，才换来了1000万的用户流量。
One industry insider told Caijing that three companies burned 2 billion dollars last summer, generating 10 million users.
说白了，此前在线教育市场还处在建立口碑的初期阶段，渗透率仅为10%左右。
To put it bluntly, the online education market was in its early stages of being established, with penetration rates of only about 10 per cent.
必须大把砸钱做推广，才能培育市场，因此获客成本高昂。
You have to spend a lot of money on promotion to nurture the market, so getting customers is expensive.
以在线幼儿教育为例，每获得一个用户缴费，75%都是成本。
In the case of online early childhood education, 75 per cent is a cost per user fee.
即使是客单价高达三五万的在线职业教育课，成本也不低。
Even online vocational education courses with a unit price of up to 30, 000 are not cheap.
“你需要经过层层转化。
"You need to go through layers of transformation.
”一位在线职业教育人士对《财经》表示。
One online professional educator told Caijing.
首先通过网络营销、线下地推，获得用户线索，然后销售才能跟进，每一步都是成本。
First through the network marketing, online push, access to user clues, and then sales can follow up, each step is a cost.
现在，“单从行业的获客成本来看，降低了一半。
Now, "in terms of the cost of customers to the industry alone, it has halved."
”张凯磊说道。
"said Zhang.
一位行业人士表示，这波行情为行业节约了近千亿的推广费，是创业公司提高品牌认知度的最好时机。
One industry figure said the market saved the industry nearly $100 billion in promotional expenses and was the best time for startups to improve their brand recognition.
张凯磊的判断更加激进，“价值可能不亚于非典时期，诞生出一个京东。
Zhang's judgment is more radical: "It could be as valuable as the SARS era, which gave birth to a Jingdong."
”不过，获客成本降低，不代表转化量就高。
However, lower customer costs do not mean that the amount of conversion is high.
先用免费课引来流量，然后再实现批量转化，完成收割，这是业内常识。
First with free lessons to attract traffic, and then achieve bulk conversion, complete harvesting, this is common sense in the industry.
但引流仅仅是第一步，最终要看有多少引流用户转化成了缴费用。
But diversion is only the first step, and ultimately depends on how many drain users turn into fees.
一切都处于忙乱之中，很多公司来不及去思考这些问题。
Everything is in a hurry, many companies do not have time to think about these issues.
“如果我去考虑这些问题，这个项目就上不了。
"If I think about these issues, the project won't be able to go ahead.
”侯建彬对《财经》记者说。
"Hou Jiabin told Caijing.
公司内部对是否推免费直播讨论过多次，这些直播课本来是付费的，按照现在的做法，明显需要投入资源和成本，业绩可能会受影响。
There have been many discussions within the company about whether to promote free live broadcasts, which come on a fee basis, and where there is a clear need for resources and costs, performance may be affected.
“全在砸钱，没有一分收入。
"" It's all money, not a cent.
”张凯磊也算过一笔账，已经投入的服务器以及人工成本，少说也有2000万了。
Zhang has also counted the number of servers and labor costs already invested, or at least 20 million.
一位业内人士对《财经》表示，创业公司“多少有点赌的成分”，大家都看到了机会，都想去抓，但实际情况是，混战中，无论品牌还是资金，都不一定能支持他们笑到最后。
One industry insider told Caijing that startups were "a bit of a gamble" and everyone saw opportunities and wanted to catch them, but the fact was that neither brand nor money would support them in the end.
理由很简单，流量池子变大的同时，竞争也升级了。
The reason is simple: as the flow pool grows, so does the competition.
混战中，中小机构大批上线，巨头的脚步也更紧了。
In the melee, the small and medium-sized institutions on the line, the giant step is also tighter.
春节期间一打开微博，弹出的就是新东方、好未来这样的龙头广告。
Spring Festival during the opening of micro-blogging, pop-up is the New East, a good future such as the leading advertising.
大部分创业公司没有这样的资源和资金。
Most start-ups do not have such resources and funds.
去年暑假，为了竞争拉新，学而思网校甚至把广告打到了公交站和地铁上，“这些投放并不不是核心投放场所，正常培训机构基本不会选择这样的场合。
Last summer, in order to compete for new jobs, the school even advertised bus stops and subways. "These are not the core delivery places, and normal training institutions will hardly choose such occasions.
”中信建投证券教育行业首席分析师叶乐对《财经》表示。
Mr Ye, chief analyst in the securities education sector, told Caijing.
整体看，疫情让家长们尤其关注线上教育，获客成本确实降低了，但一个残酷的定律是，最大受益者可能还是龙头。
Taken as a whole, the epidemic has made parents pay particular attention to online education, and the cost of getting customers has really fallen, but the cruel rule is that the biggest beneficiary may be the leader.
2019年学而思网校的获客成本是1300元左右，只是创业公司的三分之一。
In 2019, it will cost about 1,300 yuan, just one-third the cost of a startup.
现在因为疫情，巨头的品牌效应将进一步加强。
Now because of the epidemic, the giant's brand effect will be further strengthened.
多位分析人士对《财经》分析，教育依然是一个品牌导向的行业，同等价格下，用户会主动选择那些强势品牌。
According to Caijing analysts, education is still a brand-oriented industry, with users choosing strong brands at the same price.
相比创业公司，无论品牌、资金、师资以及规模，巨头都有绝对优势。
Big companies have an absolute advantage over startups in terms of brand, money, faculty and size.
免费过后，如何留下？无论是转到线上的中小机构、教育巨头还是创业公司，都用免费课把用户拉到了网上。
After free, how to stay? Whether you go to small and medium-sized organizations on the line, educational giants or startups, take free classes and pull users online.
多数分析人士认为，短期内，在线教育的市场渗透率会激增。
Most analysts believe that market penetration of online education will soar in the short term.
行业好像突然被疫情催熟了。
The industry seems suddenly ripe for an epidemic.
这是行业走向成熟的信号，但侯建彬感到的首先是压力。
This is the industry to mature signals, but Hou Jian Bin felt the pressure is the first.
突如其来的客户，把行业所有的问题，都赤裸裸地暴露在了广大用户面前。
Sudden customers, the industry all the problems, are exposed in front of the vast number of users.
确实可以说是机遇，但更多成分是挑战。
It is indeed an opportunity, but more of it is a challenge.
每天都有人在行业群里发一些教育平台宕机的截图。
Every day someone in the industry group to send a number of education platform outages screenshots.
这段时间，行业里的大、小平台用户量都在激增，宕机成了日常。
During this time, the industry's large and small platform users are surging, downtime has become a daily routine.
典型的场景是，用户看着看着直播，就突然黑屏了，抱怨也随之而来。
Typically, the user looks at the live feed and suddenly the screen is black, and complaints follow.
为了保证平台运转流畅，作业帮每天都有研发团队在通宵值班。
To keep the platform running smoothly, research and development teams are on duty throughout the night.
线下中小机构更是别无选择，只能在不同平台间来回切换。
Under-line small and medium-sized organizations have no choice but to switch back and forth between platforms.
为了保证不宕机，宫旭生的备选单上有27家第三方技术平台。
To insure against downtime, Miyazu has 27 third-party technology platforms on its menu.
只要用户反映不稳定，立马换下家。
As long as the user response instability, immediately change home.
“这不是一个正常的状态，本该有工程师，有销售体系，是一个完整的商业场景。
"This is not a normal state, there should be engineers, there is a sales system, is a complete business scene.
”张凯磊渐渐地感到有点变味了。
Mr. Zhang is beginning to feel a little stale.
自从学霸君临时把自用的平台系统开放出来，后台的抱怨就层出不穷。
Ever since the bully opened up his platform system for his own use, backstage complaints have been popping up.
愤怒的时候，有人在群里大骂他们是“奸商”。
When angry, someone yelled at them in the group as "profiteers."
张凯磊认为，突变让行业还没有做好充分准备，不仅仅是技术，师资匹配，人员管理，教学体验，后续服务都有待提升。
Zhang said the mutations left the industry ill-prepared to move beyond technology, teacher matching, staff management, teaching experience and follow-up services.
一位刚转到线上的英语机构教师对《财经》表示，在线上上课比线下难多了。
'Taking classes online is much harder than going offline, 'a new English-language tutor told Caijing.
线下的互动性始终是线上无法替代的，尽管很多平台互动功能齐全，但要反复熟悉，才能灵活使用。
Interactivity offline is always irreplaceable online, although many platforms are fully interactive, but must be repeatedly familiar, flexible use.
大部分时候，老师效率打折扣。
Most of the time, teachers are less efficient.
对于美术、音乐这样的素质教育课程，就更难实现跟线下一样的体验。
For the fine arts, music and other quality education courses, it is more difficult to achieve the same experience as offline.
“学生要指挥自己的四肢，产生某种标准的运动和输出，线下教学有示范和纠正效果。
"Students need to direct their limbs to produce some standard movement and output, and offline instruction has demonstration and corrective effects.
”宫旭生说。
"said Miyazu.
疫情过后，他相信大部分用户依然会回到线下，线上只是一种补充。
After the outbreak, he believes most users will still be offline, with the line as a complement.
叶乐向《财经》记者分析，免费课程依然要看课程质量、服务质量，衡量的指标包括但不限于前期免费课程的授课质量如何、课后答疑能否跟上、工作人员有没有跟进续班业务等。
Ye told Caijing that the free courses still depend on the quality of the courses and the quality of the services provided. The measures include, but are not limited to, the quality of the courses offered free of charge in the previous period, the ability to keep up with the after-school questions, and whether the staff follow up on the renewal business.
大部分用户是冲着免费来的，如果没有很好的体验，用户只会对免费忠诚。
Most users are free to come, if not a good experience, users will only be free of charge loyalty.
这意味着疫情结束后，可能才是考验线上教育行业或公司能不能“升段”的关键时期。
This means that the end of the epidemic may be the test of the online education industry or whether the company can "rise."
周道平对《财经》表示，前期拼速度，长期看产品服务。
Zhou Daoping to "Caijing" said that the initial speed, long-term look at products and services.
具体到数据，是最终的留存率。
Specific to the data is the final retention rate.
去年暑假K12烧钱大战后，课程恢复正价，从最终留存率的指标来看，一个平均的指标是30%。
Last summer after the Great War, when the K12 burned money, the curriculum recovered its positive value, with an average of 30% as an indicator of the final retention rate.
能否如愿转化这些用户，要看各家本领。
Whether the transformation of these users as desired, depends on the skills of each.
巨头在各方面都有资源和优势，但并非没有短板。
The giant has resources and advantages in every respect, but not without its drawbacks.
新东方、好未来的线下班留存率在80%，在线教育很难超过20%。
New Oriental, the good future of the line after-work retention rate of 80%, online education is difficult to exceed 20%.
周道平认为，对于巨头而言，线上毕竟是一个新业务，很多经验和已有的管理需要调整。
'After all, online is a new business for the giant, and a lot of experience and existing management needs to be adjusted, 'Mr. Zhou says.
而对于创业公司而言，侯建彬认为，无论教育的本质，还是行业市场竞争的本质，都没有改变。
And for startups, Hou Jiabin believes that no matter the nature of education, or the nature of the industry market competition, has not changed.
后续拼的依然是品牌认知、课程质量和服务优劣。
The follow-up is still brand recognition, curriculum quality and service quality.
（本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载。
(This article for "Caijing" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reproduce.
）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the outbreak, please see below: & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情期的线上课堂，“舍命免费”背后的诱惑和威胁。
Outbreak of the online classroom, "sacrifice free of charge" behind the temptation and threat.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情期的线上课堂，“舍命免费”背后的诱惑和威胁";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "没有足够好的在线体验，用户只会短期对“免费”忠诚，风暴过后，可能一地鸡毛";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
