当饭圈遭遇疫情：做就是全部，公益无攀比。
When the rice noodle encounters epidemic: do is all, the public interest does not compare.
张明萌。
Meng Meng Zhang.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
你以为他们只会追星？他们从线上到线下的组织力，非常时刻竟很亮眼粉丝团成员大多是二十岁上下的年轻人，这是他们第一次面临真正的危情时刻本文首发于南方人物周刊文|本刊记者 张明萌 实习记者 梁翰文编辑|周建平 蒯乐昊全文约4926字，细读大约需要12分钟1月21日晚，“能量中国官方”微博发布：朱一龙公益应援个站携手能量中国、联劝公益启动紧急公益活动，紧急采购20万份口罩、20万份一次性消毒棉片、1000瓶洗手液支援湖北。
You think they can only chase stars? Their organizational ability from online to offline is phenomenal. Most of them are in their 20s. This is the first time they have faced a real crisis.
自此，各家粉丝后援会开始组织、号召粉丝抗击疫情。
Since then, aid groups have been organizing and calling on fans to fight the epidemic.
通过捐款、捐物等方式向湖北乃至全国资源紧缺的地区提供支援。
Through donation, donation and other means to Hubei and even resource-scarce areas of the country to provide support.
饭圈的优势在此时展露：粉丝团人数巨大，因某位明星聚集成群，认同感强烈，彼此信任。
The advantage of the ring is revealed at this time: the huge number of fans, because a star cluster, a strong sense of identity, mutual trust.
粉丝团管理架构中，内部分工明确，具有强大的协同能力。
The internal division of labor is clear and there is a strong synergy in the management structure.
对于组织线上能力游刃有余的粉丝团管理者而言，此次抗击疫情更像是平日活动的一次复刻。
The fight against the epidemic is more like a rehash of everyday activity for a fan club manager who has the ability to organize online.
当饭圈遇见疫情，用于追星的组织方式，发挥了意想不到的作用。
When the rice circle encountered an epidemic, used to chase the organization of the star, played an unexpected role.
蔡徐坤粉丝团官微、朱一龙公益应援个站、张颜齐YoRoll全国后援会成员，各自对我们讲述了他们从疫情开始所做出的决策与行动。
Cai Xukun powder group official micro, Zhu Yilong public welfare support station, Zhang Yan Qi Yo Roll National Aid Committee members, each told us their decision-making and actions from the beginning of the epidemic.
以下为他们的口述。
Their oral testimony follows.
蔡徐坤粉丝团官微：你可以理解为这种沟通是一种长期默契我们一直都关注疫情，官方粉丝团里有位主要管理人员是医护人员，昨天已经去支援武汉了。
Cai Xukun powder group official micro: You can understand that this communication is a long-term tacit understanding that we have been concerned about the epidemic, the official powder regiment has a key management personnel, yesterday to support Wuhan.
抗击疫情至今，我们主要发起了两个项目。
To date, we have launched two major projects to combat the epidemic.
第一个是我们最开始以官方粉丝团的名义联系渠道捐了一批物资，1月23日，我们看到武汉的同济医院和协和医院披露了物资短缺的消息，并公布了物资接收途径，我们“皮下出资”（指官微之下的工作人员自行出资）9960元采购了3000个口罩。
The first was our initial donation of supplies in the name of the official pink slip. On January 23, we saw the Tongji Hospital and Concorde Hospital in Wuhan disclose the shortage of supplies and reveal the way goods are received.
其实那天口罩已经开始脱销了，我们调配了不同的资源，最终通过顺丰运送到医院。
In fact, that day the mask began to run out of money, we deployed different resources, and eventually through Shunfeng to the hospital.
我们的粉丝非常关心疫情，私信我们一些需求，他们希望不仅官方粉丝团做，也能带着粉丝们一起做。
Our fans are very concerned about the epidemic and believe in some of our needs. They want to do it not only with the official fans, but also with the fans.
每个人能力很小，但是汇聚起来就能够为共同抗击疫情做一些事情。
Each has little capacity, but together they can do something to fight the epidemic together.
蔡徐坤超话签到的人数有几百万，他的微博关注人数有2700万，官方粉丝团微博也有三百多万粉丝，下面的十几个分团，过去的活动中，常常有线上和线下的联动。
Cai Xukun signed up millions of people, his Twitter followers numbered 27 million, the official microblog has more than 3 million fans, and the following dozen sub-groups, in past events, were often wired and connected offline.
疫情发生之后，我们认为，粉丝团官微需要第一时间起示范和带头的作用。
After the outbreak, we believe that the micro-officials need to be the first demonstration and leadership role.
这个是不需要商量的，也不需要统计大家的意见，大家的情绪都在这里的，大家的意愿都在这里，但是你一定要先做出第一步，我们先做，我们做完之后，事实上确实起到了比较好的一个带动作用。
We don't need to discuss this, we don't need to count our opinions, everyone's mood is here, everyone's will is here, but you have to make the first step, we do it first, we finished, in fact played a better role as a driver.
粉丝开始给我们留言，开始在微信、微博的管理群里面跟我们说，能不能再跟着你们做一些更大的事情？我们能不能一起去捐款？他们提出诉求之后，我们开始去线上寻找有什么样的项目能够适合我们操作，并保证捐款落实。
Fans began to post messages to us, started to tell us in the micro-mail, micro-blog management group, can we do something bigger with you? Can we donate together? After they appeal, we start looking online to find out what works for us and to ensure that donations are paid.
大家通过线上的平台的方式，我们看到的是“蔡徐坤粉丝团官微发起一起捐”，捐款数字、人数都能看到，很透明，这对粉丝也是一个很好的反馈。
Through the online platform, what we see is "Cai Xukun powder group official micro-donation", donation figures, figures can be seen, very transparent, this is a good feedback to fans.
这个行动，官方粉丝团没有与下面粉丝分团、也没有与粉丝们沟通，我们发布，他们自发跟上来了。
This action, the official fan corps did not separate from the following, and did not communicate with fans, we released, they spontaneously follow up.
你可以理解为这种沟通是一种长期默契。
You can understand that this communication is a long-term tacit understanding.
你不会真的去发一个调查问卷说做不做。
You don't really send out a questionnaire saying don't do.
我们有十几个大的微博粉丝群，每个群都是几千人，还有很多微信群，从23号开始我们就已经收到了大量粉丝的诉求，我们就知道这个事情可以做。
We have a dozen big micro-blog fans, each in the thousands, and a lot of micro-groups. We've had a lot of fans since 23, and we know this can be done.
一般的项目确我们可能会考虑发起了之后没人来、会不会有问题，但是在当时的环境下，所有的人众志成城。
The general project is that we might have considered whether no one came after the launch, or if there was a problem, but in the circumstances, all the people were of the same mind.
你知道这个事情是你不论考虑是300人参与，还是1万人参与，还是5000个人参与，这都应该做的事情。
You know this is something that you should do whether you think about 300 people, 10,000 people, or 5,000 people.
23、24号，我们已经决定要做捐款，但当时平台比较少，我们想等待一个更成熟的机会。
We had decided to make a donation on 24th, 23rd, 24th, but there were fewer platforms, and we wanted to wait for a more mature opportunity.
我们开始了第二个项目——通过新浪微公益“一起捐”活动发动召集，粉丝参与，活动开始一小时就召集了超过一万人。
We started our second program, "Donating Together" through Sina Micropublic Benefit, which gathered more than 10,000 people within an hour of the event.
三天后活动结束，29892人捐赠超过58万，加上我们官方粉丝团最先捐赠的一万，差不多60万。
By the end of the campaign, 29892 people had donated more than 580,000, plus the first 10,000, or nearly 600,000, of our official pink slip.
为什么我们能够一个小时召集一万多人？我们跟粉丝有微博群、微信群，我们做了一件事情发了微博，瞬间每一个粉丝群都会收到。
Why can we summon more than 10, 000 people an hour? We have micro blog groups, micro-groups with fans, we do one thing and post a micro blog, and in an instant every fan base will receive it.
信息扩展非常快，这都是我们的毛细血管。
Information spreads very fast, and these are our capillaries.
我们粉丝团体更多是线上的形式去组织，面对这次疫情，捐助、捐款都是我们习惯的方式，我们能够很好地传递信息、调动我们的群。
We fans groups are more on-line form to organize, in the face of this epidemic, donations, donations are the way we are used to, we can well convey information, mobilize our group.
我们官方粉丝团团队核心的人不多，具体数字不方便讲。
The core of our official pink team is small, and the exact number is inconvenient to say.
每个人有不同的分组，你可以理解为部门的概念，有各自的职能，比如有的负责制图并发布。
There are different groups of people, you can understand the concept of departments, have their own functions, such as some responsible map and release.
群里面肯定也有各种情绪，比如感冒了发烧了，各种甲流都有，开始恐慌了，群友们也会进行心理疏导。
There must be a variety of emotions inside the group, such as a cold fever, all kinds of A-flow, began to panic, friends will also conduct psychological counseling.
这些都由一个大的组织架构区管理，细致的事情每时每刻不断发生。
These are managed by a large organizational structure, and meticulous things happen all the time.
蔡徐坤粉丝团官微发起“一起捐”活动追星像一个兴趣爱好小组，大家都为了同一种兴趣爱好到这里来了，有共同的交流基础。
Cai Xukun powder group official micro-launch "donate together" activities like a hobby group, we are all here for the same hobby, there is a common basis for communication.
进粉丝群要经过审核，我们有群规，有一些约定俗成的规则，有相应的处理方式，这些维持粉丝群的有效运转。
The fan base has to be vetted, we have group rules, there are established rules, there are ways to deal with them, these maintain the effective functioning of the fan base.
粉丝们在这里面彼此信任度很高，是一个更具有粘性的信息分享的渠道和社群。
Fans have a high level of trust in each other and are a more viscous channel and community for information sharing.
群里会有管理人员，更了解我们的文化，我们管理这些群管理员，群管理员去再去管理这些群，一对多，这样扩散下去，才能去管理这么大一个机构。
There will be managers in the group who understand our culture better. We will manage these group administrators, and the group administrators will manage these groups, one to more, so that they will proliferate and run such a large organization.
实质上大家都是粉丝，大家都是网友，很平等，但他对你要有一个基础信任。
In essence, everyone is a fan, everyone is a netizen, very equal, but he has to have a basic trust in you.
当你去做一件事情，这也是他想做的事情，他就会跟你一起做。
When you do one thing, and that's what he wants to do, he'll do it with you.
这种捐赠行为和平时去打投、刷超话在组织架构上其实没有本质区别，这就是一个兴趣社区，我们强迫不了任何人，也没有任何人会被我们强迫。
There is no essential difference in organizational structure between this act of giving and going to the polls. It is a community of interest, and we can't force anyone, and no one can be forced by us.
在网络世界里，但大家首先有一个判断。
In the online world, but everyone first has a judgment.
我们作为官方的粉丝团，发起活动，接下来就百花齐放。
We launched the campaign as the official pink slip, and then the flowers bloomed.
比如蔡徐坤的粉丝，这两天联系到有医疗器械生产和经营许可证的专业厂家，加班加点生产口罩。
Cai Xukun's fans, for example, have been in touch with professional manufacturers licensed to manufacture and operate medical devices these two days, working overtime to produce masks.
大家都在尽自己努力去做事情。
Everyone is trying their best to do something.
我们的目标并不是宣传，而是真正地去做事。
Our goal is not to advertise, but to really do.
接下来我们也在想，除了捐款，我们还能做什么？现在各种社会力量进入，理论上钱可能不是目前最缺的，有可能缺一些有效调配，有可能会存在整体不缺、局部缺的情况。
And then we thought, what else can we do but donate money? Now all kinds of social forces are coming in, money may not be the most scarce at the moment, there may be a lack of some effective redeployment, and there may be an overall shortage, a partial shortage.
另外，我们也会去关注大家的心理状况。
In addition, we will also pay attention to the psychological state of everyone.
朱一龙公益应援个站：粉丝回归现实，我们也都是普通人我们是朱一龙粉丝组成的公益个站，是由散粉组织的。
Zhu Yilong pro bono station: fans back to reality, we are also ordinary people we are a public welfare ZhuYilong fans, is organized by powder.
因为朱一龙先生本身是武汉人，所以粉丝们对武汉的关注会高一些。
Since Mr. Zhu Yilong himself is Wuhan, fans will pay more attention to Wuhan.
疫情发生后，大家非常想了解武汉情况怎么样，想做一些力所能及的事情。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, we would like to know how the situation in Wuhan, want to do something within our capacity.
当时粉丝私信比较多，都在问我们要不要去做这个公益？决定做了之后，我们也就开始发微博紧急联系，选择合作平台。
At that time, fans more personal letters, are asking us to do this charity? After the decision, we also began to tweet urgent contact, choose a platform for cooperation.
“聚沙成塔，健康湖北特别活动”就是这么组织起来的。
"Mu Sha Cheng tower, health Hubei special activity" is so organized.
我们先去找厂家订物资，订好之后算大概需要多少钱，再发动筹款。
Let's go to the factory to order first, after the order, we will probably need how much money, then start the fund-raising.
按我们的计划是，筹集16万元，购买20万只口罩、20万个酒精棉片和1000瓶洗手液，但因为网络延迟，最终收到了17万多（具体数字为178286.26元）。
Our plan was to raise 160,000 yuan to buy 200,000 masks, 200,000 alcohol cotton tablets and 1,000 bottles of hand sanitizers, but because of the delay in the network, more than 170,000 yuan (17,8286.26 yuan) were eventually received.
后来我们把多出来的钱和因现实状况没有采购到的酒精棉片的钱加在一起，又买了10万个口罩。
Then we added up the extra money and the money we didn't get out of the actual situation with an extra 100,000 masks.
当时武汉商店中的口罩大部分已经售空。
Most of the masks in Wuhan stores had already been sold out.
我们和平台一起跟供应商进行联络和沟通，从能量中国平台微博发布的活动反馈里可以看到，这次总共联络了19家企业，最终选择了两家供货。
We were able to liaise and communicate with our suppliers and, as can be seen from the feedback we received from Energy China Weibo, a total of 19 companies were contacted this time and two suppliers were selected.
我们共捐助了30万个口罩，9万片酒精棉片，2000瓶洗手液。
We donated 300,000 face masks, 90,000 tablets of alcohol cotton, 2,000 bottles of hand sanitizer.
1月22日起，陆续发出。
Issued successively from 22 January.
@能量中国官方 发布朱一龙公益应援个站资金使用情况我们站一直都在做公益，有一个成熟的系统，这套系统在这次疫情中帮助我们我们更快速的执行。
China's official announcement Zhu Yilong public welfare support station use of funds We have been doing public welfare, there is a mature system, this system in this epidemic to help us more rapid implementation.
筹款活动发起后，粉丝积极响应，二十分钟多一点活动就已经结束了，因为已经达到目标额了。
After the launch, fans responded positively and the event was over in just over 20 minutes, as the target had already been met.
我们采购的口罩是普通的医用口罩，酒精棉片和口罩，主要发给铁路局，由他们分发给志愿者、工作人员和群众，洗手液分发到火车站等公共场合。
The masks we purchased were common medical masks, alcohol cotton sheeting and masks, which were distributed mainly to railway authorities for distribution to volunteers, staff and the public, and hand sanitizers to public places such as railway stations.
在采购过程中，针对金额往来，我们做了什么都会及时更新，有详细的账目，资金流向清晰，支出结余也会有明确的标注。
In the procurement process, what we do is updated in a timely manner, with detailed accounts, a clear flow of funds and a clear indication of the balance of expenditure.
包括能量中国微博在这次活动的反馈中也具体写了资金的流向。
China Weibo, which includes Energy, also specifically wrote about the flow of funds in its feedback to the event.
我们这次参与的有五六个人，有人负责筛选厂家，有人负责谈价格，有人负责跟进。
We had five or six people involved, someone to screen the factory, someone to talk about the price, someone to follow up.
公益活动相较于其他活动会更具体一点，首先要去计划这件事情，然后联系各方，然后实施，还要跟进反馈，这是一个完整、长期的流程。
Public goods are more specific than other activities, and it is a complete, long-term process that involves planning the event, contacting the parties, then implementing it, and following up on feedback.
今天朱一龙先生也通过武汉慈善总会那边捐了100万，我们很多粉丝做活动也是因为……用通俗的话讲是偶像的正能量。
Today, Mr. Zhu Yilong also donated one million dollars through Wuhan Philanthropy Association, and many of our fans do it because... in popular words, the positive energy of idols.
他做这些公益，粉丝也愿意跟着做。
He does this for the good, and fans are willing to follow suit.
在这次事件中，不止朱一龙这边，各家都非常给力。
In this incident, not only Zhu Yilong side, each very strong.
很多家都参与了，这是众志成城的一件事情。
A lot of families are involved. It's a matter of common purpose.
粉丝回归现实，我们也都是普通人，都想往疫区送一些物资，通过这个圈子，每个人的小力量就能汇聚到一起。
Fans return to reality, we are all ordinary people, want to send some supplies to the epidemic area, through this circle, everyone's small strength can come together.
张颜齐YoRoll全国后援会：都觉得追星女孩比较疯，但国家大事面前，大家都很清醒我们从1月23号左右开始考虑捐助事宜。
ZHANG Yan-qi YoRoll National Aid Council: We all think the star-chasing girls are crazy, but in front of the national issues, we are all very clear about the donation from around January 23.
张颜齐有一句名言“你这个钱与其做怎么怎么，不如拿来做公益。
Zhang Yan Qi has a famous saying: "You do this money is not how to do, rather than do the public good.
”他直接跟粉丝这样讲，所以粉丝都对公益很上心。
He said it directly to his fans, who were so devoted to the common good.
我们有个单独的公益组织，但因为这次事情比较严重，只靠公益组织的力量不太够，我们后援会直接开了链接，专门处理，粉丝们自发就捐款了。
We have a separate charity, but because this time it's serious and the public interest groups aren't strong enough, we have a direct link to the charity, and fans donate on their own.
由官方后援会这边统一来分配和支出。
Allocation and disbursement by the official DAC side.
我们以往做公益有很多种形式，也做过不需要大家筹款的，我们分享一个渠道，大家自发的往渠道里面打钱，直接捐实物的形式也有。
We used to do public welfare in many forms, but also do not need to raise money, we share a channel, we spontaneously into the channel into the money, direct donations in kind form also.
这次这么做，不光是我们，各家都会组织去筹钱，有的是自己想办法去买物资，有的是直接把这个款捐出去。
This time, not only we, the families will organize to raise money, some to buy their own way to buy goods, some directly donated this money.
我们考虑到粉丝个人力量不够大，钱汇总到一起，我们统一去安排，可以避免物流等资源的浪费。
We take into account the fact that fans are not strong enough and the money is pooled together, we can avoid waste of resources such as logistics.
很多医院不需要钱，直接要物资，我们就到处找物资捐过去，这比直接捐钱帮助更大一点。
Many hospitals don't need money. We ask for supplies directly, so we look around for donations, which is a little more than a direct donation.
医疗物资到处都紧缺，比如防护服，医用专业口罩，我们通过各种方式，比如淘宝、阿里巴巴……粉丝也会有一些资源能找到这些物资。
Medical supplies, such as protective clothing and medical masks, are in short supply, and we can find them in a variety of ways, such as Taobao, Alibaba...
我们再去跟物资方跟进、沟通，核查物资规格、是否符合医疗使用标准？然后交医院审核，医院觉得符合他们使用规格，我们才能去买。
We will follow up with the material side, communicate with them, verify the material specifications, and meet the standards for medical use.
我们没有固定的规则说谁去负责某一项物资，都是具体问题灵活安排，这个人正好谈这一项，下一个人就去接手另一项，群里及时沟通。
We don't have a set rule about who is responsible for a particular item. It's all very flexible. This person talks about it and the next person takes over the other item.
这几天大家每天抱着手机，打电话、发微信，到底要沟通些什么，大家都已经熟练了。
These days we hold cell phones, make phone calls, send letters, what to communicate, we have become proficient.
刚开始遇到不少困难，说实话，我们这些粉丝，也就是20来岁的小女孩，也不熟悉医疗厂商，不了解运输渠道，都是摸索。
At first we had a lot of difficulties. To be honest, we fans, the girls in our 20s, were not familiar with the medical vendors, did not understand the transportation channels, were groping.
我就问我在医院工作的亲戚，医疗器械在哪儿买。
I asked my relatives in the hospital where I bought the medical equipment.
粉丝有亲戚在医疗系统工作的也会提供信息。
Fans with relatives working in the healthcare system also provide information.
大年三十晚上，我打了好多电话，都说没有货，工人放假了，有的说，订单都排到三月份了。
On New Year's Eve, I made a lot of phone calls, said no goods, workers have holidays, some say, orders until March.
你打了20个电话，可能只有3个能回复你了，3个里面，最后又只有1个能谈下来。
You made 20 calls, maybe only three of them answered you, three of them, and then only one of them was able to talk.
我们就是这样大海捞针地去找。
That's how we searched for a needle in a haystack.
这几天我们过了最有意义的一个年，大年三十晚上，我给协和医院负责人打了半个多小时电话才打通，我跟他讲，我们这边找到了多少个护目镜，问医院需不需要？医院负责人一直在谢我，说祝你们新年快乐！我当时就觉得特别不是滋味。
I told him how many goggles we had found here and asked if the hospital needed them.Hospital officials kept thanking me for a happy New Year! I felt particularly bad about it.
人家医生还要感谢我，还要祝我新年快乐，我只是给他打个电话，但他们其实承担得更多。
The doctors wanted to thank me and wish me a happy New Year. I just called him, but they took more.
大家可能都觉得追星女孩比较疯，但其实国家大事面前，大家都很清醒、很理智。
Everyone may think that the star-chasing girl is crazy, but in fact, before the national affairs, we are very clear, very rational.
我们肯定不能添麻烦，能帮上就帮。
We can't be bothered. We can help if we can.
说实话，我们这个后援会，在张颜齐面前从来都是零存在感的那种，他从来没有关注过我们，我们是两个独立的世界。
To be honest, we, the DAC, have always felt zero in front of Zhang Yan Qi. He never paid attention to us. We are two separate worlds.
但是我们发了第一次更新资源的物资微博，他第一次跟我们有了互动，我们很激动，去找资源的冲劲也更大。
But we sent our first ever resource-updating microblog, and for the first time he interacted with us, and we were excited and more motivated to find resources.
我们后援会目前已募集到武汉专项爱心资金317923元。
We have so far collected 317,923 yuan from Wuhan Special Loving Fund.
在各方帮助下，已联系协调好符合相应卫生标准的物资有：医用一次性外科口罩10万个、医用一次性乳胶手套14000个、医用一次性帽子1万个、护目镜740个、红外线测温仪400个、医用一次性手术衣1000个。
With the help of the parties concerned, the following materials have been coordinated: 100,000 medical disposable surgical masks, 14,000 medical disposable latex gloves, 10,000 medical disposable hats, 740 goggles, 400 infrared thermometers and 1,000 medical disposable surgical suits.
款项90%多都已经用掉了，但有的还没发出来，有的还没收到，所以完整的资金支出还没有出来，但是最后我们也都会全部公示。
More than 90 percent of the money has been spent, but some haven't been sent or received yet, so the full outlay hasn't come out yet, but in the end we'll all be in the open.
张颜齐粉丝后援会物资记录跟进物资是我们目前最主要的任务。
ZHANG Yan-chi fan material records follow-up material is our most important task at present.
有一些还没有发货，或者是还没有及时更新的商家，我们去催，有些医院已经收到了我们的物资，我们也在跟他们确认，希望能给我们返一个图，我们好给粉丝看一下，说明我们物资确实已经到位了。
Some have not been shipped, or have not been updated in time, we rush, some hospitals have received our supplies, we are also confirmed to them, hope to give us a map, we can show fans that we have materials in place.
号召大家捐款、去购买物资，跟我们平时去打投，或者去刷超话，出发点就完全不一样了。
Call on everyone to donate, to buy supplies, with us to play the usual shot, or to brush ultra-words, the starting point is completely different.
公益是很纯粹的一个想法，你不会去想我们要捐的比别人家多，没有攀比的心情，纯粹是为了帮助别人。
The public good is a pure thought, you will not think that we have to donate more than others, there is no comparable mood, purely to help others.
打投有竞争，我们支持的明星和别的粉丝团支持的明星在同一个榜单上是谁更靠前，我们会去比这个。
We're going to go out there and compete, and we're going to compare the stars we support to the stars on the same list.
但是这种购买物资，可能我们买完之后商家还有货，但我们钱已经不够了，我们也会把渠道分享给其他粉丝团，如果大家一起助力，是非常好的一件事。
But this kind of purchase, maybe we have the goods after we buy the goods, but we do not have enough money, we will share the channel with other powder groups, if we help together, is a very good thing.
这次疫情我们这种粉丝团被关注到，可能是因为我们确实在做事，但也可能是因为粉丝团沾了明星的光，处在一个可以被看到的地方，粉丝会自豪，会分享。
This epidemic of powders like ours may have been noticed because we were actually doing something, but it could have been because the powder was in the stars, in a place to be seen, and fans would be proud to share.
不一定是我们做的多好，只是我们更多地被看见了。
It doesn't have to be how good we are, it's just that we're more visible.
但只要做就好了，看不看见，不是最重要的。
But as long as you do it, see or not see, is not the most important.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎专题：征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
Collecting true stories about the coronavirus infection and documenting our fates The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of the new coronavirus, writing down the stories you are experiencing or have witnessed.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、记者热线（同微信）：13918532564、136314839362、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
How to contribute: 1. Journalist hotline (tweets): 13918532564, 136314839362, Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo Discussion Topic: # I have words in the affected areas # Please make sure that the contents are true, objective, rational, do not rumor and do not spread rumors.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当饭圈遭遇疫情：做就是全部，公益无攀比。
When the rice noodle encounters epidemic: do is all, the public interest does not compare.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "当饭圈遭遇疫情：做就是全部，公益无攀比";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这些二十岁上下的年轻人，生平第一次遭遇危情时刻。
var msg _ desc = & quot; These twenty-something young men were at their first critical moment in their lives.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '已出现感染症状，但暂时不能确诊时，我们能做什么？',。
What can we do with & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '钟南山：守责才是最大的政治',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & rsquo; s responsibility.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '武汉试剂代理商口述：我所知道的新型肺炎确诊盒供应现状',。
At the dictation of Wuhan Reagent & amp; Reagent & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '回不了家的武汉人',。
Wuhan & apos; who couldn't return home.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
