高福回应争议：不能去网络吵架，在研究狡猾病毒/* declared */。
Gao Fu responds to controversy by not going online to argue, studying cunning viruses / * declared * /.
高福回应争议：不能去网络吵架，在研究狡猾病毒<br>。
Gao responds to the controversy: Can't go online to fight, at Ritz & ltd; br & gt;
| title       = 高福回应争议：不能去网络吵架，在研究狡猾病毒。
Gao Fu responds to the controversy by not going online to fight, studying cunning viruses.
高福回应争议：不能去网络吵架，在研究狡猾病毒。
Gao Fu responds to controversy: Can not go to the Internet quarrel, in the research cunning virus.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 俞琴 黄姝静。
Author Yu Qin Huang Jing.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
新冠肺炎疫情暴发至今，确诊病例、死亡人数均已超过SARS，高福以往言论受到质疑。
Since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the number of confirmed cases and deaths has exceeded SARS, Gao Fuk's previous statements have been questioned.
高福及中国疾控中心是否“失职失责”，这是争议焦点所在文 |俞琴 黄姝静编辑 |鲁伟图/新华从论文争议，到“失责”指控，再到被调查谣言，中国疾病预防控制中心（下称中国疾控中心）主任高福近期深陷舆论漩涡。
Whether Gao and the China CDC "defaulted or failed" was at issue at the centre of the controversy - from paper disputes to allegations of "malpractice" to rumors being investigated, Gao Fu, director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), has recently fallen into a public-opinion swirl.
“我不能去网络吵架”。
"I can't go online and fight."
2月17日，高福对《财经》记者表示：“希望大家像我一样，全身心投入抗击疫情的工作，能出力出力；因为专业或其他方面限制，不能亲自出力，就不信谣、不传谣。
"I hope you will be as committed as I am to the fight against the epidemic," Gao told Caijing on Feb. 17. "Because of professional or other constraints, we will not believe in rumors or spread rumors.
”如今的高福处在风口浪尖。
Today's Gao Fu is at the top of the storm.
作为中国疾控中心掌门人，高福被指“早已掌握人传人的证据”，但却忙着参与写论文，“隐瞒了疫情”。
As the head of China's CDC, Gao Fuk was accused of "knowing the evidence of human-to-human transmission," but was busy writing his paper, "concealing the epidemic."
论文风波之外，高福正在被外界全方位审视，他过往的一些言论和观点被指“存在误导”，诸如“SARS类似事件不会再出现”、“儿童、年龄比较小的人对新冠病毒不易感”等等。
In addition, Gao Fuk is being reviewed in all aspects, and some of his past comments and views have been described as "misleading," such as "SARS-like incidents will not reappear," "children, younger people are not susceptible to the new crown virus," and so on.
要求追责高福的声音始终不断。
The demand for accountability continued.
2月15日，有媒体甚至发布了“高福被调查”的乌龙消息，称高福“涉嫌违纪违法被调查”，但涉事媒体很快删除了相关消息。
On Feb. 15, some media even published a report by Wu Long, saying that Gao Fu was "under investigation for violation of discipline and law," but the media immediately deleted the news.
根据中编办有关规定，作为国家卫健委下属的事业单位，中国疾控中心的职责包括“参与国家公共卫生应急准备和应对”、“开展重大公共卫生问题的调查与危害风险评估”、“指导地方突发公共卫生事件调查”等等。
According to the relevant regulations of the Central Committee, the responsibilities of the CDC include "participating in national public health emergency preparedness and response," "conducting investigations and hazard risk assessment of major public health problems," "guiding the investigation of local public health emergencies," and so on.
从历史来看，中国疾控中心的前身是1983年12月23日卫生部报请国务院批准成立的“中国预防医学中心”；1986年1月19日更名为“中国预防医学科学院”；2002年1月23日再由中国预防医学科学院、卫生部工业卫生实验所、中国健康教育研究所、中国农村改水技术中心组建为“中国疾病预防控制中心”。
Historically, China's CDC was founded on December 23, 1983 by the Ministry of Health with the approval of the State Council. On January 19, 1986, it was renamed the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. On January 23, 2002, the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, the Industrial Hygiene Laboratory of the Ministry of Health, the China Institute of Health Education and the China Rural Water Improvement and Technology Center became the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
高福2011年担任中国疾控中心副主任，2017年8月升为该中心主任。
Gao served as deputy director of the China CDC in 2011 and was promoted to director of the centre in August 2017.
他对《财经》记者表示，连日来，中国疾控中心联合全国疾控中心的驰援团在湖北一线开展病人的检测和流行病学调查。
He told Caijing that in recent days, the China CDC, together with the CDC's rescue mission, has been carrying out patient testing and epidemiological investigation on the Hubei front.
中国疾控中心也正在抓紧疫苗研发、药物测试等工作，各种防控方案制定和科普宣传工作等也一直在有序进行中。
China CDC is also stepping up vaccine research and development, drug testing and other work, various prevention and control programmes and publicity work has been in an orderly manner.
如今的高福面对媒体言辞谨慎了很多。
Today's Fortune is much more cautious in the face of media rhetoric.
他告诉《财经》记者：“（新型冠状病毒）‘狡猾’的部分多了……不得不承认：人类认知的限制！”针对高福是否存在“失职失责”行为，北京才良律师事务所律师王令表示，高福具备双重身份，一方面是中国疾控中心的主任，有一定的行政权力；另一方面，他也是中国疾控中心的专家，负有对疫情作出判断、采取措施的建议的权责。
He told Caijing: "[The new coronavirus] is much more cunning... has to admit: the limits of human cognition!" Wang Ling, a lawyer at Beijing CDC, said Gao had dual status, being the director of the CDC with certain executive powers.
“所以在判断责任的时候，要从两个方面去判断：中国疾控中心有没有过错？高福作为专家有没有过错？如果疾控中心有责任，那么，高福负有领导责任；如果专家有渎职的地方，那么高福负的是直接责任。
So when judging responsibility, we should judge from two aspects: Is China CDC at fault? Is Gao Fuk at fault as an expert? If the CDC is responsible, then Gao Fuk bears the lead; if the expert is negligent, then Gao is directly responsible.
”高福因何深陷争议漩涡随着新冠疫情在春节前暴发，外界对高福及中国疾控中心的质疑始自2020年1月30日。
With the outbreak of the new crown ahead of the Spring Festival, questions about Gao and China's CDC began on January 30, 2020.
这天，医学权威期刊新英格兰杂志（NEJM）发表了一篇题为《新冠肺炎在中国武汉的初期传播动力学》的论文。
On this day, the New England Journal of Medical Authority (NEJM) published a paper entitled "The Early Dynamics of New Crown Pneumonia in Wuhan, China."
该文指出，2019年12月中旬，新冠肺炎密切接触者之间就已发生人际传播。
The article points out that in mid-December 2019, human-to-human transmission has occurred between close contacts of Newcrown Pneumonia.
而官方首次向公众明确，新冠肺炎肯定“人传人”，是在2020年1月20日。
And the official public for the first time, the new crown pneumonia is certainly "human-to-human", on January 20, 2020.
公众据此认为，官方在之前1个多月，就已经清楚新冠肺炎可以“人传人”，上述论文的通讯作者之一高福，也被质疑“隐瞒疫情”。
The public believed that officials had known for more than a month that pneumonia could "pass from person to person," and Gao Fu, one of the co-authors of the paper, was also questioned about "concealing the outbreak."
1月31日，中国疾控中心回应称，“2019年12月份即在密切接触者中发生了人际传播”，这是基于425例病例流行病学调查资料做出的回顾性推论。
On January 31, China's CDC responded that "human-to-human transmission took place in December 2019 among close contacts," a retrospective inference based on 425 epidemiological case studies.
此外，论文是由来自中国疾病预防控制中心、湖北省疾病预防控制中心、香港大学等十几个单位的专业人员共同完成。
In addition, the thesis is made up of professionals from more than ten units, such as China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Hubei Province, University of Hong Kong.
高福则回应称，论文是一篇回顾性分析，而回顾性调查，正是中国疾控中心的职责之一，“找到元凶，回顾性调查，指导未来防控”。
Gao responded that the paper was a retrospective analysis and that a retrospective survey was one of the CDC's responsibilities to "find the culprits, conduct retrospective investigations, and guide future control."
一位在工作中多次接触高福的人士对《财经》记者称，高福曾在公开场合提到不应当以论文论英雄，要努力推动科研体制改革，让年轻的科研工作者有更好的环境，引导年轻人作出更多有益于社会、能够解决实际问题的成果，“给人感觉是非常有见地、有情怀的。
A person who has come into contact with Caijing on several occasions told Caijing that Gao said in public that he should not talk about heroes in his thesis, but should work hard to reform the scientific research system, provide better environment for young researchers and guide young people to make more beneficial and practical results.
”出生于1961年的高福，先后毕业于山西农业大学、北京农业大学和英国牛津大学，是中国科学院院士、国家杰出青年基金获得者、国家973项目首席科学家和中国科学院“百人计划”入选者。
Born in 1961, Gao Fu graduated from Shanxi Agricultural University, Beijing Agricultural University and Oxford University, and is a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, winner of the State Outstanding Youth Fund, chief scientist of the National 973 Project and the winner of the 100-person Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
2014年，高福曾赴西非埃博拉疫区，开展埃博拉出血热检测工作。
In 2014, Gao had travelled to Ebola-affected areas in West Africa to test for Ebola haemorrhagic fever.
据《科学日报》报道，2014年12月8日，高福在“2014中国科协热点学术问题报告会”上表示，埃博拉在西非的肆虐有特殊原因，“即使埃博拉万一传入中国，凭借SARS后中国建起的传染病联防联控机制，完全可防可控。
According to Science Daily, on December 8, 2014, Gao Fuk told the 2014 China Association of Science and Technology Symposium on Hot Issues that Ebola was raging in West Africa for special reasons. "Even if Ebola were to spread to China, it would be entirely preventable and controllable thanks to the post-SARS China-built Joint Control Mechanism for Infectious Diseases."
”2019年3月4日，作为全国政协委员，高福在接受金羊网记者专访时表示，SARS这一类病毒随时都有可能出现，但SARS类似事件不会再出现，因为我国传染病监控网络体系建设得很好。
Speaking to reporters on March 4, 2019, Gao Fu, a member of the CPPCC, told reporters at the Golden Rangers that SARS could occur at any time, but SARS-like incidents would not occur again because China's infectious disease surveillance network is well established.
然而，自2019年底新冠肺炎疫情爆发至今，确诊病例、死亡人数均已超过SARS，目前疫情仍在蔓延中，高福以往言论因此受到多方质疑。
However, since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia at the end of 2019, the number of confirmed cases and deaths has surpassed that of SARS.
高福对此次新冠肺炎疫情的部分观点，也被指“存在误导”。
Gao Fu on the new crown pneumonia outbreak of some of the views, also referred to as "misleading."
2020年1月22日，高福在国务院新冠肺炎疫情防控的新闻发布会上指出，就目前的流行病学和目前的认知来说，儿童、年龄比较小的人确实对新冠病毒不易感。
On January 22, 2020, Gao Fuk told a news conference on the prevention and control of the State Council's New Crown Pneumonia epidemic that current epidemiology and current knowledge suggest that children and younger people are not susceptible to the new crown virus.
然而十天后，国家卫健委印发《关于做好儿童和孕产妇新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》，其中明确，“儿童和孕产妇是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的易感人群”。
However, ten days later, the National Health Commission issued the Circular on the Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Infection in Children and Pregnant Women, which clearly states that "Children and women are susceptible to pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus."
关于疫情“拐点”，1月28日，高福接受央视采访时表示，“如果按照现在的措施，应该在近期能看到一个拐点。
"With regard to the" inflection point "of the epidemic, Gao told CCTV on January 28," If the current measures, should see an inflection point in the near future.
大家预计元宵节情况可能好转，按照现在措施，我个人比较乐观，甚至我个人评估比这个还早，但是每个人防控措施要到位，每个人都是疫情防控的责任人，每个人的措施跟上来了，病毒就下去了”。
The Lantern Festival is expected to improve, I am personally optimistic, even before this I personally assessment, but every control measures in place, everyone is responsible for disease control, everyone measures up to catch up, the virus down.
3天后的1月31日，中国疾控中心副主任冯子健指出，当前不对“拐点的出现”做预期，也很难做出这种判断。
Three days later on January 31, Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC, said it was difficult to make such a judgment without expecting an "inflection point."
下一步的疫情防控重点在于落实现有的防控措施。
The next step in the prevention and control of the epidemic is to implement existing control measures.
“我们就是冷静、认真地观察各项防控措施落实情况。
"We are simply observing the implementation of prevention and control measures calmly and carefully.
”高福最近一次在公开场合露面是2月11日-2月12日。
Gao Fu's last public appearance was from February 11 to February 12.
其时，新型冠状病毒全球研究与创新论坛在瑞士日内瓦举行，高福和流行病学首席专家吴尊友分别在论坛上介绍了中国有关新冠肺炎的最新研究进展和流行病学情况。
At that time, the New Coronavirus Global Research and Innovation Forum was held in Geneva, Switzerland. Wu Zunyou, chief expert in gaofu and epidemiology, briefed the Forum on the latest research progress and epidemiology of coronavirus in China.
对于网络争论，高福向《财经》记者回应，他不能去网络吵架。
In response to the Internet controversy, Gao told Caijing that he could not go online to quarrel.
他呼吁，大家要团结一心、众志成城，战胜病毒流行病和“信息流行病”。
He called for unity and unity of purpose in the fight against the virus pandemic and the "information pandemic."
2月2日，世卫组织在一份报告中，曾对“信息流行病”的说法作出诠释：在海量信息轰炸之下，人们真假难辨，而这些亦真亦假的信息通过社交媒体传播的速度比病毒快得多，这让人们普遍“信息过载”。
On February 2, WHO interpreted the term "information epidemic" in a report: "Information overload" is widespread because people are unable to distinguish between real and false information, which travels much faster through social media than viruses.
而在真正有需要时，人们却很难找到可靠的信源和专业指导。
When the need arises, it is difficult to find reliable sources of information and professional guidance.
“我必须要努力抗击疫情，如果还有点时间，就去研究这个非同寻常的‘狡猾’病毒。
"I have to fight the epidemic, and if I have time, I will study this unusual 'sly' virus.
”高福表示。
Mr Gao said.
对于他和中国疾控中心是否在本次疫情中存在失职问题，高福始终没有对此公开回应。
Gao did not publicly respond to questions about whether he and China's CDC were negligent in the outbreak.
高福及疾控中心是否失责暂无定论高福及中国疾控中心是否“失职失责”，这是争议焦点所在。
Whether Gaofu and the CDC have defaulted is uncertain, and whether the CDC has "defaulted and defaulted," which is the bone of contention.
根据中编办相关规定，中国疾控中心的职责包括：开展传染病、突发公共卫生事件监测与评价，开展重大公共卫生问题的调查与危害风险评估；研究制定重大公共卫生问题的干预措施和国家免疫规划并组织实施。
According to the relevant regulations of the China CDC, the responsibilities of the CDC include: carrying out surveillance and evaluation of infectious diseases and public health emergencies; conducting investigations and hazard risk assessment of major public health problems; and studying and organizing the implementation of interventions and national immunization plans for major public health problems.
承担疾控信息系统建设、管理及大数据应用服务技术支持。
Responsible for CDC information system construction, management and large data application services technical support.
同时，中国疾控中心的职责还包括参与国家公共卫生应急准备和应对。
At the same time, China's CDC is also responsible for participating in national public health emergency preparedness and response.
指导地方突发公共卫生事件调查、处置和应急能力建设。
To guide local public health emergency investigation, handling and emergency response capacity-building.
开展疾病预防控制、突发公共卫生事件应急、公众健康关键科学研究和技术开发，推广疾病预防控制新理论、新技术、新方法，推进公共卫生科技创新发展。
We will carry out disease prevention and control, emergency response to public health emergencies, key scientific research and technological development, promote new theories, technologies and methods for disease prevention and control, and promote the development of public health science, technology and innovation.
北京才良律师事务所律师王令对《财经》记者表示，对于传染病的防控，中国疾控中心具备事前预防指导、事中防控的职责。
Wang Ling, a lawyer at Beijing Talent and Liang Law Firm, told Caijing that the CDC has the responsibility of prevention and control of infectious diseases in advance.
但作为一个事业单位，而不是党政机关，其权力更多来源于卫健委的授权。
But as an institution, rather than a party and government organ, its power comes more from the mandate of the health care committee.
更大程度上，中国疾控中心的角色是一个专业机构，而不是具有决策权的行政机构，主要职责是提供技术支撑和咨询意见。
To a greater extent, the CDC's role is that of a professional agency, not an executive agency with decision-making powers, whose primary role is to provide technical support and advice.
但决定某地是否为疫区，以及是否开展“封城”等控制性措施，都不是中国疾控中心能够决定的。
But it is not up to the CDC to decide whether a place is an epidemic area or not, or whether to carry out control measures such as "city closure."
根据2013年6月29日通过修订的《传染病访治法》第四十三条规定，甲类、乙类传染病暴发、流行时，县级以上地方人民政府报经上一级人民政府决定，可以宣布本行政区域部分或者全部为疫区；国务院可以决定并宣布跨省、自治区、直辖市的疫区。
According to article 43 of the Law on the Inspection and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, adopted on 29 June 2013, local people's governments at or above the county level may declare, upon the decision of the people's government at the next higher level, that part or all of their administrative areas are epidemic areas.
省、自治区、直辖市人民政府可以决定对本行政区域内的甲类传染病疫区实施封锁；但是，封锁大、中城市的疫区或者封锁跨省、自治区、直辖市的疫区，以及封锁疫区导致中断干线交通或者封锁国境的，由国务院决定。
The people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government may decide to blockade epidemic areas of Class A infectious diseases within their respective administrative areas; however, if epidemic areas in large or medium-sized cities are blockaded or epidemic areas across provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government are blockaded.
高福先后两次公开提及“埃博拉在中国可防可控”、“SARS事件不会再来”，其重要的依据是，SARS后中国建起了传染病联防联控机制——而利用这套系统，也正是中国疾控中心的职责之一：开展传染病、突发公共卫生事件监测与评价。
Gao has publicly mentioned twice that "Ebola is preventable in China" and that "SARS will not happen again," based on the fact that China has established the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for Infectious Diseases since SARS - a system that China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is mandated to monitor and evaluate for infectious diseases and public health emergencies.
自2004年1月起，中央拨“重金”建立的传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统（下称网络直报系统）正式启用，系统覆盖全国卫生机构，不明原因肺炎是其监测、报告的重点之一。
Since January 2004, the Information System for Monitoring Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies (hereinafter referred to as the Net Direct Reporting System), set up by the central government with a "large sum of money," has been in operation.
按照设计，医院发现传染性病例后，要在这套系统上报告。
Hospitals are designed to report infectious cases on the system when they find them.
颇为高效的一点是，医院在网络系统报告病例后，中国疾控中心能第一时间收到，不需要经历逐级上报的过程。
What is quite efficient is that when a hospital reports a case on a network system, the CDC receives it first, without going through a cascade reporting process.
据中国疾控中心原副主任杨功焕介绍，中国疾控中心有专人负责监测网络直报系统，一旦发现某个地方的不明肺炎病例超过5例，就会自动触发核查机制，由中国疾控中心派人去进行流行病学调查、病人的访视、采取样本。
According to Yang Gonghwan, former deputy director of the China CDC, the CDC has a person in charge of monitoring the online direct reporting system. If more than five cases of unidentified pneumonia are found in one place, the verification mechanism will be automatically triggered, with an epidemiological investigation, patient interviews and sample taken by the CDC.
对于疫情的漏报、缓报，在医疗卫生系统也并非没有约束。
The underreporting and delayed reporting of the epidemic is not without constraints in the health-care system.
《财经》记者注意到，武汉市卫健委公布的一则行政处罚决定书显示，武汉市金银潭医院武昌分院在对“其他乙类传染病”病人进行诊断后，未在24小时内进行网络报告，于2019年3月11日收到予以警告的行政处罚。
The Caijing reporter noted that Wuhan Municipal Health Commission issued an administrative penalty decision, which showed that Wuchang Branch of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital had received administrative penalty warning on March 11, 2019 after failing to report the network within 24 hours after diagnosis of "other B-infectious diseases."
湖北省中西医结合医院呼吸与重症医学科主任张继先是“疫情上报第一人”。
Zhang Ji, director of the department of respiratory and severe medicine in Hubei Province, first reported the outbreak to the first person.
2019年12月26日，张继先先后接诊到四个病例，症状和肺部CT结果相似。
On December 26, 2019, Zhang received four cases, with symptoms and lung CT findings similar.
张继先开始认识到事情的严重性，并于次日“向业务院长夏文广、医院院感办和医务部作了汇报，医院立即上报给江汉区疾控中心”。
Zhang first began to realize the seriousness of the matter, and the following day "to the Director of Operations Xia Wenguang, hospital office and the Department of Medical Affairs made a report, the hospital immediately reported to the Jianghan CDC."
2月3日，中国外交部发言人华春莹表示，自1月3日起，中方共30次向美方通报疫情信息和防控措施。
On February 3, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying said that since January 3, China has informed the United States of the epidemic information and prevention and control measures 30 times.
王令认为，从2019年12月底地方上报疫情，最迟到2020年1月3日，高层已经知情，“很难说疾控中心存在瞒报”。
Wang Ling believes that from the end of December 2019, local reports of the epidemic, no later than January 3, 2020, high-level has been informed, "it is difficult to say that the CDC exists underreporting."
但对于这个问题，高福和中国疾控中心目前均未予以任何正面回应。
But neither Gao nor China's CDC has responded positively to this question.
至于在张继先上报疫情以前，网络直报系统运行如何、基层诊断情况如何，目前仍有待权威机构的证实和信息公开。
Before Zhang first reported the epidemic situation, the operation of the network direct reporting system, grass-roots diagnosis, is still to be verified by an authoritative body and open information.
1月24日，武汉市金银潭医院胸外科主任医师黄朝林等人在《柳叶刀》在线发表的《2019年中国武汉新型冠状病毒感染者临床特征》一文指出，武汉金银潭医院收治的首个感染者发病日期可以追溯至2019年12月1日。
On January 24, 2007, Huang Chaolin, chief thoracic surgeon at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, and others reported in The Lancet that the first case of infection in Wuhan Yintan Hospital can be traced back to December 1, 2019.
中国疾控中心副主任冯子健1月31日在接受《新京报》采访时表示，在本次新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情中，网络直报系统的启用没有那么早，“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎是一个新发疾病，在传染疾病报告目录里是没有的，调整网络直报系统设置、人员培训需要一个过程。
"Pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection, is a new disease not found in the catalogue of infectious diseases, and there is a process to adjust the settings of the network direct reporting system and the training of personnel," Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC, told the Beijing News on January 31.
”这些解释是否能缓解舆论漩涡中的高福和中国疾控中心，目前仍待观察。
It remains to be seen whether these explanations will ease the vortex of public opinion about Gao and China's CDC.
作者为《财经》记者；本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载    责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
The writer is a reporter for Caijing; this article is an exclusive collaboration between Caijing and Tencent News. It declines to reprint Caijing & # 124; Huang Duanhuang @ cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
高福回应争议：不能去网络吵架，在研究狡猾病毒。
Gao Fu responds to controversy: Can not go to the Internet quarrel, in the research cunning virus.
