健身行业冰火两重天：线上用户量翻10倍，线下每月损失千万。
Fitness industry ice fire two days: online users 10 times, the loss of tens of millions of online monthly.
伍洋宇。
Wu Yanyu.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：unsplash记者：伍洋宇  编辑：文姝琪“ 健身行业的线上迁徙或许是一个临时逃生出口，但等到豁然开朗时，有几成创业者能伫立到最后？”韩佳至始至终都没有提到最坏的可能，老板告诉她这次必须挺过去。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "The online migration to the fitness industry may have been a temporary escape hatch, but by the time it became clear, dozens of entrepreneurs would be able to stay out of it." Han Jia didn't mention the worst in the end, and her boss told her she had to survive this time.
作为一家连锁健身房的市场部负责人，她知道健身房恢复营业的时间是个未知数，但如果持续到五六月份呢？“坦率讲我们也不愿意面对那样，只能说是走一步看一步，现在我们权当它3月份的时候能恢复正常。
As head of marketing for a chain of gyms, she knows it's an open question, but what if it continues into May and JuneFrankly we don't want to go that far, just step by step, and now we're going to be back to normal by March
”韩佳告诉界面新闻记者，“如果3月份的时候恢复不了正常，可能我们再采取下一步措施。
"If we don't get back to normal by March, maybe we'll take the next step," Han told Interface News.
”下一步措施需要依靠的现实条件很复杂。
The actual conditions under which the next steps are to be taken are complex.
比如说如果相关政府部门在政策上给予更多的扶持，减租、减税，那么他们还能继续撑下去。
For example, if the relevant government departments in the policy to give more support, rent reduction, tax reduction, then they can continue to survive.
“但如果不行的话，那谁知道。
'But if not, who knows.
”韩佳说，“一切都是未知数。
"Everything is unknown," said Han Jia.
”2020年初，新型冠状病毒肺炎肆虐大地，没有人敢轻易出门，更别提去健身房这样密闭的聚众性场所。
When the new coronavirus pneumonia sets in early 2020, no one will dare to leave the house easily, let alone go to a gym like a closed gathering place.
在各市体育局政策指示下，无论是社区还是商务区的健身房近已悉数关闭，健身行业的寒冬正式降临。
At the direction of the city's sports bureau, gymnasiums in both the community and business areas have been closed and the winter of the fitness industry has officially arrived.
不过痛苦倒逼改变，健身似乎终正在成为一种国民意识。
But the pain is changing, and fitness seems to be finally becoming a national consciousness.
除去所有后天的防护措施，自身免疫力成为病毒面前一道关键的先天屏障。
In addition to all acquired protective measures, autoimmunity has become a key barrier to the virus.
免疫力、健康体魄、运动健身，这组司空见惯的关联词，开始频繁出现在新闻里和人们的口中。
Immunity, fitness, exercise, this group of common related words, began to appear frequently in the news and people's mouth.
截至目前，北京、上海、哈尔滨、青海等省市体育局纷纷发文，倡导市民在疫情防控期间积极居家健身，同时附上了完整的运动视频或是动作解说。
So far, the provincial and municipal sports bureaus in Beijing, Shanghai, Harbin and Qinghai have sent messages urging residents to stay at home to work out during the epidemic prevention and control period, along with a complete video or action commentary.
在此之下，是整个健身行业的线上迁徙。
Below this is the online migration of the entire fitness industry.
疫情结束之前，这或许是一个临时逃生出口，但等到豁然开朗时，有几成创业者能伫立到最后？线下寸步难行难捱的春节假期过去后，病毒仍在以难以估量的速度扩散。
Before the end of the epidemic, it may have been a temporary escape hatch, but by the time it became clear, a few entrepreneurs would be able to stand at the bottom of the line.
1月30日晚上，韩佳带领市场团队赶制出海报，一边要求销售团队微信单发给所有会员，并且发布相同内容的朋友圈，一边制作公众号文章准备推送，她必须确定两万多名会员全部都要接收到通知。
On the evening of Jan. 30, Han Jia led the marketing team to produce a poster, asking the sales team to send a message to all members and to publish a circle of friends with the same content.
为了配合政府对疫情防控的相关规定，也为了规避返京潮可能产生的传染风险，韩佳所在的公司将从1月31日起关停所有门店，正式进入歇业期。
In keeping with government regulations on epidemic prevention and control, and in order to avoid the risk of contagion that could result from a return to Beijing, Hanjia's company will close all stores from January 31, officially closing all shops.
在刚刚听说疫情的时候，她没有想到会如此快走到这一步。
When she first heard about the outbreak, she did not expect to get there so soon.
一周以前，疫情警报刚刚在全国范围内拉响，公司旗下的八家门店没有立即停业，但也不得不重视起来，并且逐步加强了防控措施：查体温、每四小时消毒一次、要求进场所有人戴口罩。
Just over a week ago, the company's eight stores didn't shut down immediately, but they had to be taken seriously and the controls were stepped up: temperature checks, disinfection every four hours, and a requirement for all people to wear face masks.
尽管已经非常担心，但按照惯例，公司在春节法定假日期间仍旧保留了4家门店谨慎营业，“因为我们好多会员春节的时候也是有健身习惯的，既然我们已经承诺了，就必须得给他们一些什么。
Despite our concerns, the company traditionally kept four stores open for business during the Spring Festival holiday. "Because many of our members are in the gym during the Spring Festival, and since we've made a commitment, we have to give them something.
”此时确实仍有前去健身的顾客——每天单店进场人数约为50至60人，平时日均人流量在200至300人，高峰时能达500至600人。
Indeed, there are still customers who go to the gym - about 50 to 60 people a day, 200 to 300 a day on average and 500 to 600 at the peak.
“本来预计是关到2月9号，没觉得有这么严重。
"I was expecting it to be on February 9 and I didn't think it was that serious.
”韩佳说，“没想到现在开业（变成了）遥遥无期。
"I didn't expect it to be open now," said Han.
”和所有中小微型实体企业面临的困境一样，一众线下健身房都需要在停业状态下养活一大家子人，同时向物业交租。
Like all MSMEs, an offline gym needs to support a large family while paying rent to the property while it is out of business.
韩佳没有透露公司在人力和租金上每月支出的具体数字，但其八家门店均在人流较高的商业综合体及中高档社区，加上教练、销售、运营及其他职能部门在内，公司职工共有370人左右。
Han Jia didn't give figures on the company's monthly spending on manpower and rents, but all eight of its stores are in high-traffic commercial complexes and high-end neighborhoods, with around 370 employees in coaching, sales, operations and other functions.
当记者提及其他企业现金流支撑能力普遍在两个月左右时，她表示“我们可能在这种情况之下，也就差不多这个时间。
"We could be in this situation, about the same time," she said, referring to other companies' cash-flow support capacity, which is generally in the order of two months.
”随后又补充道，“我不能给你一个特别肯定的答复。
"Then he added," I cannot give you a particularly affirmative answer.
”对于实行年卡会员制度的健身房而言，在非会员个人原因导致的无法营业情况下，健身房需要为会员按停业时长延期会员时限。
For gyms with an annual membership, gyms need to extend their memberships for as long as they are closed for non-member personal reasons.
这或许算不上直接损失，传统健身房真正的痛点在于——因为无法靠锻炼值回卡费，接下来可能长达三五个月都将没有新的会员办卡。
This may not be a direct loss, but the real pain at a traditional gym is that there may be no new memberships for as long as three or five months because you can't get your credit card back on exercise.
据前瞻产业研究院发布的《中国健身俱乐部行业市场调研与投资战略规划分析报告》统计数据显示，2015年我国健身房市场规模约为700亿元，到2017年达到878亿元。
According to statistics published by the Institute of Forward Looking Industries, the market size of gymnasiums in China will reach about 70 billion yuan in 2015 and 87.8 billion yuan in 2017.
在年复合增长率12%的期望下，2020年我国健身房市场规模或将达到1230亿元。
With a compound annual growth rate of 12%, China's gymnasium market is likely to reach 123 billion yuan in 2020.
据韩佳透露，其公司根据各门店规格将其年费制定在1万至2万元。
According to Han Jia, his company has set its annual fee at 10,000 to 20,000 yuan per store specification.
她回忆称，过去每家门店单月新增会员数平均在150-200人，续费率在70%左右。
In the past, she recalls, each store added an average of 150 to 200 new members a month, with renewal rates of about 70%.
八家门店同时停业既意味着，每月直接损失在千万人民币左右。
The simultaneous closure of eight stores means a direct monthly loss of about Rmb10m.
更何况，春节后是健身行业的关键“回血期”。
What's more, the Spring Festival is the key to the fitness industry "blood period."
“很多健身房就想着春节以后（资金）能周转一下，因为这个时候需求比较大。
"A lot of gyms are thinking about turning around after the Spring Festival because there's so much demand.
”韩佳告诉界面新闻记者，“没想到一下就给大家都拍回去了。
"Han Jia told the interface reporter," I didn't expect to be photographed by everyone.
”“根据以往健身行业的业绩规律，春节后是健身场馆业绩上扬的主要时段。
"According to past performance patterns in the fitness industry, the Spring Festival holiday is the main time when fitness stadiums perform well.
通常2月、3月的业绩能占到第一季度的80%以上。
Performance in February and March typically accounts for more than 80% of the first quarter.
”青鸟体育董事长卞光明在接受中青报·中青网记者采访时表示。
Bian Guangming, chairman of Green Bird Sports, told the China Youth Daily in an interview.
一场更广泛的停业潮正在蔓延，传统健身房之外，以单节课付费、小课堂形式出现的新型健身房也受到波及。
A broader wave of shut-down activity is spreading, with the new gymnasium being built outside the traditional gymnasium in the form of a single-class fee.
Keep旗下健身房品牌Keepland于1月24日发布公告，称将于2020年1月25日至2月2日期间关闭Keepland北京和上海的所有门店，随后又在政府要求下将停业时间延长至2月9日，同时对所有用户课包的使用时限延长30天。
Keep's gym brand Keepland said on January 24 it would close all Keepland stores in Beijing and Shanghai between January 25 and February 2, 2020, and then extend the shutdown to February 9 at the government's request, along with a 30-day extension for all user kits.
超级猩猩最早于1月21日关停其武汉门店，并陆续关停其他城市门店，其恢复营业时间由2月3日调整至2月10日。
The super-orangutans shut down their Wuhan stores as early as January 21 and closed down others, adjusting their operating hours from February 3 to February 10.
据记者了解，目前，超级猩猩已明确表示，“初步估计在3月1日前不会恢复营业，如有特殊情况会提前通知。
According to reporters, the super-orangutans have made it clear that "preliminary estimates are that business will not resume until March 1, and special circumstances will be notified in advance.
”Keepland方面也暂未有任何重新营业的计划。
Keepland has no immediate plans to reopen its doors.
线上百般自救TT直播创始人张康在近日的一次分享中提到了直播健身的增长速度。
Online self-help TT live founder Zhang Kang in a recent sharing mentioned the growth rate of live fitness.
TT直播健身主要面临家庭场景，服务女性用户。
TT live fitness mainly faces the family scene, serves the female user.
“我们在刚过去的15天中，全员全天候远程加班，现在实现了日复合20%的用户增长，等Q1结束，整个用户的数量应该会是之前的10-20倍。
"We've been working long hours 24 hours a day, 24 hours a day, for the last 15 days, and now we've achieved a 20% increase in the number of subscribers, and by the end of Q1, the total number of users should be 10-20 times what it was before.
”他说。
'he said.
一定程度上，这从侧面印证了疫情时期在线健身救活健身行业的可能性。
To a certain extent, this from the side confirmed the outbreak of online fitness to save fitness industry possibilities.
早在2019年初，超级猩猩就在北上广深以及成都、武汉等9座城市拥有了近80家门店。
By early 2019, the super-orangutans had nearly 80 stores in nine cities, including north-to-far and Chengdu and Wuhan.
彼时它刚刚完成3.6亿元D轮融资，创始人跳跳表示，希望在2019年新增100家门店，总数达200家左右。
At the time, it had just completed a $360 million round of D financing, and the founders said they hoped to add 100 stores by 2019, bringing the total to about 200.
今年的2月3日，“运动连锁指南”发布了一篇对跳跳的专访。
On February 3 this year, the Sports Chain Guide published an interview about hopping.
谈论问题的时候，跳跳还抱着一周后的2月10日能正常复工的心情。
When talking about problems, the jump is still holding a week later February 10 can resume normal mood.
在受耽搁的人力和房租成本上，她认为如果计划2月10号开始营业，则自停业起波动了20天。
With regard to the delayed labour and rental costs, she considered that if it was planned to open on 10 February, it would fluctuate for 20 days since the closure of the business.
对于近一个月没有课时费的教练，团队决定基本工资照发，并为其每人提供一万块无息借款的周转金；房租方面则正在和一些开发商谈减免。
For coaches who haven't had an hourly fee for nearly a month, the team has decided to pay the base salary and give each of them a working capital of $10,000 on non-interest-bearing loans; rent is being negotiated with developers.
她说，很大的惊喜来自于线上。
'Great surprises come from online, 'she says.
此时，超级猩猩在一直播平台上线了“超猩家里蹲”的直播项目，由教练带领用户做简单的塑形和有氧运动。
At this point, super-gorilla in a live broadcast platform on the "Super Scarlet squat" live project, the coach led users to do simple plastic and aerobic exercise.
“临时注册的账号第一场直播同时在线人数就超过了17万，成了一直播上的TOP1主播。
"There were more than 170,000 people online in the first live broadcast of a provisional registered account, becoming the TOP 1 anchor on a live broadcast.
”跳跳说。
'she said.
她在当时表示，“目前我们虽然还没有考虑通过线上赚钱，但已经在考虑将直播变成一个长期服务，毕竟确实给用户交付了价值。
"We're not thinking about making money online yet, but we're already thinking about turning live broadcasting into a long-term service," she said at the time.
”显然，这个想法很快发生了变化。
Evidently, the idea changed quickly.
2月10日，超级猩猩官方公众号发布了一套课程产品，“超猩家里蹲-14天‘陪’训营”。
On February 10, Super Gorilla official public released a set of course products, "Super Gorilla home squat - 14 days' training camp."
其内容为14天线上训练、320分钟定制挑战训练，2月17日首期开课，售价399元。
Its content is 14 antenna training, 320 minutes of customized challenge training, February 17, the first class, prices 399 yuan.
据记者了解，该产品共22位教练2月17日至3月1日的一期课程，目前均已全部满员。
According to the reporter, the product has 22 coaches from February 17 to March 1, a course, all of which are now full.
按照每班上限30人、每人399元费用计算，共产生了26万余元收入。
Based on the upper limit of 30 persons per class at 399 yuan per person, a total of more than 260,000 yuan of income was generated.
相较于超级猩猩人均100元上下的课时费，这笔收入平摊下来后并不算高，但的确为其打开了一个小小的现金入口。
That's a modest amount of money, but it does open a small cash inlet for the super-orangutans, compared with about $100 per person.
事实上，根据每家公司的业务属性不同，健身品牌通过线上自救的目标也不尽相同。
In fact, fitness brands have different goals for self-help online, depending on the nature of each company's business.
Keep方面对界面新闻记者表示，公司目前没有明显的现金流压力。
Keep told interface reporters that the company does not have significant cash flow pressure.
暂时关停的Keepland业务线，在过去收入排名中靠后于运动消费品牌、线上广告以及会员，因此对公司整体收入影响不算重大。
Keepland, which has been temporarily closed, lags behind sports consumer brands, online advertising and memberships in past earnings rankings, and thus has little impact on overall company revenues.
不过，Keep仍在线上积极运行着三件事。
Still, Keep is actively running three things online.
首先，Keep于1月31日在App端内上线了一个聚合页面，包括每日瑜伽、lululemon、趁早、Shape等11家品牌，从早上9起至晚上21点，以类似于约课的模式推出直播课程，由品牌旗下教练或运动达人授课，同一时段有瑜伽、健身操等多种形式可选。
First, Keep launched a syndication page on the App terminal on January 31, including 11 brands - daily yoga, lululemon, early morning, and Shape - offering live lessons in a class-like format from 9am to 2pm, with classes taught by a brand coach or sports officer, with yoga, exercise and many other options available at the same time.
据Keep分享，截至2月5日，所有课程共计观看人数超过5650万，同时在线人数峰值为16万。
As of February 5, Keep said, more than 56.5 million people had attended all courses, peaking at 160,000 online at the same time.
其次，Keep与国家体育总局合作上线了一项防疫指南。
Second, Keep worked with the State Administration of Sports to put together a vaccination guide.
该页面与上述页面区别在于，内容以视频授课为主，动作也相对基础，能够覆盖到只想简单运动、又不太习惯直播模式的人。
The difference between the page and the above page is that the content is mainly video-based, action is relatively basic, can cover only want to simple exercise, but is not used to live mode.
Keep表示，直播和视频目前都是免费的，直播排课将至少持续到二月底。
Keep said live broadcasts and videos are now free and live scheduling will continue until at least the end of February.
其中，所有参与授课的Keepland教练，其直播时长都将转换为课时费。
All Keepland instructors who attend the lectures will have their hours converted into hours spent on the air.
“公益”项目之外，Keep也正在开展一项新业务。
In addition to the public goods program, Keep is starting a new business.
Keep的PR负责人李若名告诉界面新闻记者，已经有互联网大厂、科技IT企业、快消品牌等类型的公司找到他们商谈合作，即为其员工提供一个运动打卡页面，可供企业进行监督。
Lee Ruo-name, PR director for Keep, told Interface News that companies of internet giants, tech-IT companies and fast-erase brands had approached them to discuss collaboration by offering their employees a sports-card page that companies could monitor.
“这会是一个ERP的聚合页面，把企业对员工训练的诉求和其他要求进行汇总。
"This will be an ERP aggregation page that aggregates claims and other requirements for employee training.
”据悉，目前已有三四十家企业表达了该业务的沟通意向。
So far, 30 or 40 companies have expressed interest in the business, it is reported.
“目前还在对接，应该过段时间这个项目就会启动了。
"It's still docking and it should be some time before the project starts.
”李若名说，“其实品牌合作的意义更大，商业化这块还没有定。
"Brand co-operation means more, and the commercialisation has not yet been decided.
”特殊时期，像Keep和超级猩猩这样的产品形态，其互联网基因的优势开始显现。
In particular, products such as Keep and Super Bang have seen their Internet genetic edge begin to emerge.
聚合流量也好，品牌传播也好，试水全新形态的内容付费也好，一切都有了可能性。
Whether it's aggregate traffic, branding, or the cost of testing new forms of content, everything is possible.
而对于传统形式的健身房来说，短期内跻身线上获得收益很难，也本不在其计划内，维系客户关系的用意更强。
For traditional gyms, it's hard to make money online in the short term, and it's not part of the plan.
韩佳告诉记者，公司目前正在各个微信群中做健康知识讲堂，由教练拍摄健身视频上传平台，同时参与视频网站的健身直播。
Han Jia told reporters that the company is now doing health knowledge in the various micro-groups, fitness video upload platform by the coach, and participate in the video site fitness live.
“实际上我们做直播的目的不光是为了流量，也不光是为了品牌传播。
"The fact that we do it live is not just for traffic, it's not just for branding.
”韩佳说，“还有就是给会员一个（锻炼）机会，跟他们有一个联系。
"There is also a chance to give members a chance to have a connection with them.
”未来终将可期？在疫情集中爆发的15天时间里，TT直播创始人张康认为就像经历了15个月，“非常忙碌”。
In the 15 days since the outbreak began, TT Live founder Zhang Kang described it as a 15-month "very busy" period.
他指的是，有大量的项目和资源涌过来。
He was referring to the massive influx of projects and resources.
这或许是一个全民健身意识觉醒最为强烈的时期，但行业很清楚，其实，健身直播做到完全吸引用户并不简单。
It may be one of the most intense periods of national fitness awareness, but the industry knows that it's not easy to fully engage a user.
“超猩家里蹲”上线之后，跳跳分享了很多关于产品细节的调整，“比如第一天有很多地面动作，很多人反应手机太小看不清，不方便，第二天我们就减少了地面动作；考虑到都在家里，翘臀课程就结合了抹布，健身的同时地板也擦了；教练还会特地穿上家居服营造氛围。
For example, on the first day there were a lot of ground motions, many people said their cell phones were too small to see and convenient. The next day we reduced ground movements.
”除此之外，团队还会加上一些广场舞风格的音乐，能让父母等长辈也加入运动；在宠物会传染病毒的谣言影响下，还在课程里加入了带有小猫小狗的负重训练。
The team also added plaza-style music to their elders, including parents, and added weight-bearing training with dogs and cats to their classes in response to rumours that pets might contract infections.
长期看来，所有内容付费都将遇到一系列匹配、平衡供需关系的共性问题。
In the long run, all content payments will encounter a series of common problems that match and balance supply and demand.
例如，教练要克服直播时的空旷感，找到与镜头前用户密切互动的感觉和技巧；或者，用户在单一场景下或许也很难做到长期坚持。
For example, a coach has to overcome the emptiness of a live broadcast and find the sense and skill to interact closely with the user in front of the camera; otherwise, it may be difficult for the user to stay the course in a single scenario.
因此，当疫情过去，线上直播会成为更加普遍的健身产品形态吗？李若名对界面新闻记者表示，不排除日后将直播嵌入App的可能性。
So will live webcasts become a more common form of fitness products when the epidemic is over, Li told the interface reporter, not ruling out the possibility of embedding live in App in the future.
“但如果说是疫情过去后，可能我们就要去评估一下，大家到底是对于线上直播更感兴趣，还是说是Keepland本身，或者说以前传统的跟练课程，（这时候）就需要拿一些运营数据去看了。
'But if it's the end of the epidemic, maybe we'll have to assess whether people are more interested in online broadcasting, or whether Keepland itself, or a traditional follow-up course, needs some operational data to see.
”李若名说，“目前这个阶段还没有在做商业付费的思考。
"At this stage, there is no thinking about paying for business," says Mr Li.
”现在考虑挣钱的问题或许为时尚早，但如果真的要落实在线健身，除了产品本身，的确又涉及获客、导流、转化等一系列现实话题。
It may be too early to think about making money, but if you really want to get an online workout, it does involve a series of real-life topics such as who gets it, how to channel it, how to turn it around.
张康从更实操的角度分析称，目前仍有流量红利可以利用。
Zhang Kang from the perspective of more practical analysis said that there are still flow dividend can be used.
“比如抖音、头条，这是一线梯队，这个时候如日中天，跟它们谈合作可能性小。
"It's like the jitter, the headlines, it's the first tier, and it's high time to talk about cooperation with them.
但这个行业有二线梯队、三线梯队这种短视频的直播平台，他们极其缺内容。
But the industry has second-tier echelons and third-line echelons, short video broadcast platforms that are desperately short of content.
”张康说，“一线梯队的平台我们也可以去做，短期内是赚了一个吆喝，但长期内能不能变现，能不能导流就不好说。
"We can do it on the platform of the first echelon," Zhang said. "We earn a challenge in the short term, but it's hard to say if we can turn it into cash in the long run.
私域要跟交易环节更近才可以，如果你的私域跟交易环节跳转很多次，甚至不给你跳转链接，这时候积累的私域效率很低。
If your private domain jumps many times with the trading links, and doesn't even give you a jump link, the private domain accumulates little efficiency.
”从各方看来，迁徙线上的趋势对于以实体业务为主的品牌，更像是一种缓兵之计，可供他们维系用户、观察机会。
From all sides, the trend on the migration line looks more like a stop-gap measure for brands that focus on their physical businesses, allowing them to sustain users and observe opportunities.
而对于Keep这样素来偏向线上的公司，当前的时期似乎更考验的是其调动资源、提出解决方案的能力。
For companies like Keep, which has a history of leaning toward online companies, the current period seems to put the ability to mobilize resources and propose solutions to the problem to the test.
有数据为证，这会是其巩固用户忠实度、吸引广告主的重要时期。
There are data to prove that this will be its consolidation of user loyalty, attracting advertisers important period.
此时此刻，与生存同等重要的，是行业的信心。
At this point, as important as survival, is the confidence of the industry.
“（疫情）对于健身行业的话，我觉得是一个特别沉重的打击。
"I think [the epidemic] is a particularly heavy blow to the fitness industry.
”韩佳说，“因为健身行业本身是靠现金流的，资金链一旦断裂的话，有一些健身房就维系不下去，所以整个行业就是比较焦虑。
"Because the fitness industry itself is cash-flow-dependent, some gyms can't stay afloat once the money chain breaks, so the industry is more anxious," Han said.
”不过韩佳表示，虽然焦虑，但却没有失去信心。
But Han Jia said she was worried but did not lose heart.
“因为在这之后一定是一个健身需求的井喷期。
"Because after that it must be a blowout period for fitness needs.
”她说，“因为大家会觉得健康最重要，要提高自己的抵抗力和免疫力，那怎么提高，不就是锻炼吗？所以一定会有更多的人舍得在这上面投资。
"Because people feel that health is the most important thing, to improve their resistance and immunity, how to improve it is not exercise," she said.
”超级猩猩的跳跳认为，“坦白说，疫情发生之前，整个健身行业处在调整期，我觉得越来越多企业在向好，变成了服务驱动，开始重视教练、内容、课程。
"Frankly speaking, before the outbreak, the fitness industry was going through a period of adjustment, and I think more and more companies are going to be better, becoming service-driven and focusing on coaching, content, curriculum," says super-chimp Jump.
作为同行，我觉得我们应该抱团取暖，而不是内部互掐，哄抬价格。
As a fellow worker, I think we should stay warm and not just pinch each other and inflate prices.
”“最后，我还是保持乐观。
"" In the end, I remained optimistic.
”她说，“毕竟悲伤无用。
'she said.' After all, grief is useless.
”（文中韩佳为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
"(In the text Han Jiawei alias) unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
健身行业冰火两重天：线上用户量翻10倍，线下每月损失千万。
Fitness industry ice fire two days: online users 10 times, the loss of tens of millions of online monthly.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "健身行业冰火两重天：线上用户量翻10倍，线下每月损失千万";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "健身行业的线上迁徙或许是一个临时逃生出口，但等到豁然开朗时，有几成创业者能伫立到最后？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
