疫情之下，蛋壳自如们吃相为什么这么难看？。
Why are eggshells so ugly to eat when they're sick?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 燃财经。
The following article comes from burning finance.
Author 燃财经工作室。
Author Burning Finance Studio.
燃财经。
Burning finance.
每天一篇深度报道，重新定义创新经济。
A daily in-depth report redefining the creative economy.
。
.
图片来源：Pexels作者：苏琦  编辑：魏佳  本文来源：燃财经 （ID：rancaijing  ）“ 年后本是租房高峰，因为疫情，流动性被锁死，公司只能打起了老租客的主意。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn)
”“如果没法续约，我难道要戴着口罩睡大街吗？”时代中的一粒灰，落在每个人头上都是一座山。
"If I can't renew my contract, do I have to sleep in the street wearing a mask?"
但很多租客没想到，这座山来得如此猝不及防。
But many tenants did not expect that the mountain caught them off guard.
仅仅一个春节，从老家回到大城市的租客们发现，想继续住下去并不容易。
Just for the Spring Festival, renters returning to big cities from their old homes find it hard to stay.
蛋壳公寓要求房东免租一个月，但对租客的房租照收不误，部分房东收不到钱要求租客搬走；自如的多名租户则表示，想要续租遭遇临时涨价。
Egg shell apartments require the landlord to rent free for one month, but rent is charged to tenants, some landlords can not receive money to ask tenants to move out; a number of comfortable tenants say they encounter temporary price increases to renew their tenancies.
针对租客的质疑，蛋壳方面回应称，在补贴上蛋壳的支出要远超出征求业主免租的金额，因此绝不会存在“赚差价”，并出台了一系列措施补贴租客；自如方面回应称，已经跟进到租客，多是因长租客想改为短期续约引起，与租客基本达成共识。
In response to enquiries from tenants, eggshell respondents said there would be no "profit margin" as the cost of subsidising eggshells far exceeded rent-free rates for owners, and a series of measures were put in place to subsidize tenants.
但这样的回应在租客眼里只有两个字：“牵强”。
But such a response has only two words in the eyes of the tenant: "farfetched."
长租公寓“吃相难看”，与其“二房东赚差价”的商业模式息息相关，业内人士介绍，按照业内默认指标，出租率在90%以上才有可能盈利，目前整个行业都处于亏损状态，而长租公寓企业的现金流入主要依靠租金收入，年后本来是一波租房高峰期，现在因为疫情，流动性基本被锁死，只能在老租客身上做文章。
According to industry sources, the rental rate is more than 90%, the industry is in deficit, and long-rented apartments, which were due mainly to rental income, are now largely locked in because of the epidemic, said industry sources, who said rental rates of 90% or more were likely to be profitable.
“实际上，这次处在风口浪尖的自如和蛋壳也是无奈，这个行业受损失最大的就是它们这种自己出钱拿楼、赚差价的公寓方。
"In fact, this time around at the top of the wave of ease and egg shell is helpless, the industry has suffered the biggest losses is their own pay to get the floor, the difference between the apartment party.
”一名业内人士称。
"said one industry insider.
2019年，长租公寓迎来倒闭潮，虽然先后有青客、蛋壳流血上市，但疫情的爆发成了企业运营的试金石。
In 2019, long-rented apartments ushered in a wave of collapse, and although there was a spate of bleeding from young customers and eggshells, the outbreak of the epidemic became a touchstone for business operations.
截至发稿，青客公寓上市时市值8.26亿美元，当前市值仅为5.89亿美元；蛋壳公寓上市时市值为27.4亿美元，过去一个月不到，目前市值为24.78亿美元。
At the time of writing, it had a market value of $826 million, compared with $589 million, and eggshell apartments, valued at $2.74 billion at the time of listing, had a market value of less than $2,478 million over the past month.
长远来看，大家租房的需求其实还在，只是高峰往后推了三四个月，疫情缓解之后会出现一波流量反弹。
In the long run, the demand for rental housing is still in fact, only three or four months after the peak, the epidemic will be alleviated after a wave of flow rebound.
想要挺到那个时候，“自杀式涨价”或许是最坏的选择，企业可以尝试线上看房、社群招租等方式，同时，也要运营好已有的老用户。
Suicide price hikes may be the worst option until then, as companies try things like online housing and community rental and run existing customers well.
随着大型社区式租赁住房入局，2020年，长租公寓行业又将迎来新格局。
With the entry of large-scale community-type rental housing, in 2020, the long-rent apartment industry will usher in a new pattern.
刚回北京，蛋壳租客就被房东通知搬家2月11日，刚回北京的蛋壳公寓租客杨阳接到了房东的电话，要他准备好搬家。
On his return to Beijing, the landlord told him to move. On February 11, Yang Yang, a new tenant of his eggshell apartment in Beijing, received a call from his landlord asking him to be ready to move.
房东称，按照她跟蛋壳签的合同，2月15日是打款日。
According to the landlord, according to her contract with the eggshell, February 15 is the day of the deposit.
但这个月蛋壳通知她不给打款了，并因为疫情的影响要求她免租1个月，房东提醒杨阳，到期如果蛋壳还不付钱，按照她跟蛋壳之间的合同，15个工作日之后合同就作废，杨阳一家也得搬出房子。
But this month the shell told her not to pay, and since the epidemic required her to stay rent-free for a month, the landlord reminded Yang that if the shell did not pay, the contract would expire after 15 working days and the Yang family would have to leave the house.
然而杨阳和蛋壳的房租合同已经签到了2020年11月，且一年房租已经全部付清。
However, Yang Yang and eggshell rental contracts have been signed into November 2020, and a year's rent has been fully paid.
在这样的情况下，杨阳的处境十分被动。
In such a situation, Yang Yang's situation is very passive.
这两天，杨阳被拉入好几个蛋壳维权群。
In the past two days, Yang Yang was dragged into several egg shell rights groups.
除了杨阳这种情况外，另一部分租户反映，他们因为回不来等原因想退租，但客服回复称退房预约已经排到3月1日。
In addition to Yang's situation, some tenants said they wanted to return the rent due to non-return, but the customer service replied that the check-out date had been set for March 1.
群里的房东情绪也很激动，1月24日开始就有人没有收到打款了。
Landlords in the group were also agitated, and no one had received a call since January 24.
“如果按期收不到租金就断水断电换门换锁”，群内不少房东已打算强制收房。
"If the rent is not received on time to cut off water and electricity to replace the door lock", many landlords in the group have intended to forcibly close.
“对于我们租户来说，这是房东跟蛋壳之间的纠纷，其实跟租户没有直接关系，最后却直接影响了我的生活。
"For us tenants, this is the landlord and eggshell dispute, in fact, not directly related to the tenants, but ultimately directly affected my life.
这时候业主如果强制收房，我难道要戴着口罩睡大街吗？”杨阳告诉燃财经，他打电话给12345、110以及蛋壳客服，均没有得到有效的解决方案。
Would I have to sleep in the street in a mask if the owner had forced the house to close? Yang told Flaming Finance that his calls to 12345, 110 and eggshell customer service had failed to yield effective solutions.
2月14日早上，蛋壳方告诉杨阳会正常给房东打款，让他安心住。
February 14 morning, egg shell side told Yang Yang will be normal to the landlord to pay money, let him rest assured.
但直到截稿，房东依旧没有收到房款。
But as of the cut-off date, the landlord had not received payment.
眼看离房东给的最后期限越来越近，杨阳每天提心吊胆，害怕自己无家可归。
Seeing the deadline given by the landlord getting closer and closer, Yang worried about being homeless every day.
房东、租户与蛋壳争论的焦点在于，疫情之下，蛋壳要求房东免租一个月，但没有为租客减免租金，“房东免租、租客交租”的行为引发不满。
The dispute between landlords, tenants and eggshells centred on the fact that, under the circumstances, eggshells required landlords to rent free for one month, but there was no rent reduction for tenants.
“租客刚跟我说完交了房租，蛋壳转头就要我免租金，真怕蛋壳哪天碎了。
"Just as the tenant told me to pay the rent, the eggshell turned to me rent-free, I'm afraid the shell will break.
”一位房东称。
'said a landlord.
多名北京地区的房东在维权群表示，蛋壳并没有征求房东是否同意减免房租的意见，而是直接通知会暂停打款。
Several landlords in Beijing said the shells did not ask landlords if they would agree to a rent reduction. Instead, they gave direct notice of the suspension.
后来，蛋壳方给出两个选择：第一，不免租金就正常解约，可以赔偿一个月（即退回房东押金）；第二，如果走法律程序解决，蛋壳方可以以不可抗力的因素，不给予赔偿。
Subsequently, the eggshell side gave two options: first, the rent would normally be waived for one month (i.e., the return of the landlord's deposit); and second, if the legal procedure were followed, the eggshell would not be compensated on the grounds of force majeure.
关于业主在蛋壳不如约支付租金情形下能否收房的问题，北京地区的律师华强称，根据合同来看，业主与蛋壳仅是委托管理关系，业主与租户才是租赁关系。
Huaqiang, a lawyer in Beijing, said the owner was in a "trust-management" relationship with the eggshell, and the owner-tenant relationship was a tenancy, according to the contract.
在租户已经按照约定支付租金的前提下，即使是支付给蛋壳，法律上也视同支付给业主了，业主无权要求租户腾房。
Where the tenant has paid the rent as agreed, even if it is paid to the eggshell, the owner has no right to request the tenant to vacate the house.
至于业主的损失，可依合同向蛋壳追讨，包括但不限于违约金，实际损失等。
As for the owner's losses, the contract may be recovered from the eggshell, including but not limited to the breach of contract, actual loss, etc.
房东与蛋壳的合同华强称，根据法工委的意见，本次疫情确实已经定性为不可抗力。
Huaqiang, the landlord's contract with the eggshell, said the outbreak had indeed been qualified as force majeure.
但根据业主提供的信息，蛋壳已经提前收取租金，且北京并未官宣封城，个人行动并未受到强制性阻碍，业主与蛋壳的财产委托管理服务合同不存在不能履行的情况。
However, according to the information provided by the owner, the eggshell has been charged in advance, there is no official ban on Beijing, there is no compulsory impediment to personal movement and there is no non-performance of the contract for trust management services between the owner and the eggshell.
所以，蛋壳单方以不可抗力解除合同的理由于法无据。
Therefore, the grounds for the unilateral cancellation of the contract by force majeure are unfounded.
另一位北京中南律师事务所的陈卫平主任律师称，根据《财产委托管理服务合同》第八条第（四）项规定，出现蛋壳利用房屋从事违法活动，损害公共利益的、蛋壳迟延支付租金满15个工作日的，房主有权单方面解除合同，蛋壳应赔偿房主两个月租金。
Chen Weiping, another lawyer at Zhongnan Law Firm in Beijing, said that if egg shells were used to engage in illegal activities, harming the public interest and the egg shell was delayed in paying rent for 15 working days, the owner had the right to cancel the contract unilaterally and the owner of the egg shell should be compensated two months' rent.
对于诸多质疑，2月3日晚，蛋壳公寓发文指出，针对武汉无法返城的租客，蛋壳公寓计划为租客返还一个月租金。
On the night of Feb. 3, the eggshell apartment sent out a letter saying it planned to pay one month's rent back to tenants who could not return to Wuhan.
对于武汉地区以外无法返程的租客，蛋壳公寓将根据各地政府发布的因疫情延期返工的天数，返还租客相对应的租金，或提供相对应的免费延住天数。
For tenants who are unable to return outside Wuhan, eggshell apartments will be returned to the tenants according to the number of days the epidemic has delayed rework, or the corresponding free extension days will be provided.
补贴在3月2日后返还至蛋壳公寓APP个人中心的钱包中。
After March 2, the subsidy is returned to the wallet of the APP individual center in the eggshell apartment.
然而，租户对此并不买账。
However, the tenants are not buying into it.
一方面，返还金额并不能提现，只能用于抵扣房屋服务费、维修金、水电燃气费用（非自缴）、租金（分期月付除外）及续租、首付款等蛋壳APP内的账单费用。
On the one hand, the refunded amount is not refundable and can only be used to offset the cost of housing services, maintenance, utilities (non-self-financing), rent (except monthly installments) and bills in egg shell APPs such as renewal and down payment.
另一方面，这一期间仍旧居住在出租房内的租客将得不到补贴。
On the other hand, tenants who remain in rented accommodation during this period will not receive a subsidy.
2月15日，蛋壳再次回应称，在原有的续租优惠活动上，增加首月立减50%月租金，住满6个月后再返20%的优惠活动，但前提是用户在2月1日至2月29日合同期满且续租满一年，且依旧无法提现。
On February 15, the eggshell responded by adding a 50% monthly rent reduction for the first month and a 20% discount for the first six months, subject to the expiration of the contract between February 1 and February 29 and the renewal of the contract for another year.
维权群流传的蛋壳应对业主的方案自如租客想续约，只能接受涨价与此同时，另一家长租公寓自如也被指在疫情时期变相涨价。
Human rights groups spread eggshells should owners of the program easy renters want to renew the contract, can only accept price increases, while another parent rental apartment is also alleged to change in the epidemic period.
“不涨价就不给续约，不然只能搬走，可现在我能搬去哪里呢？”北京的一位自如客肖莉莉原本签了一年合同，2月27日到期。
"You don't renew your contract without raising the price, or you move away, but where can I move now?" said Lily Xiao, a comfortable Beijing resident who signed a one-year contract that expired February 27.
在2019年12月时她就和自如管家沟通过续约的事，管家称到时候提前一两个月续租就可以，还有优惠，优惠活动会在APP显示。
In December 2019, she had been able to communicate with the housekeeper about the renewal, which she said would be available a month or two in advance, plus discounts that would be shown on the APP.
可就在2月7日，她接到管家的电话，称房子续租不了。
But on February 7, she received a phone call from the housekeeper, saying that the house could not be renewed.
问及原因，对方称她住的这套是止血房源，按照市场价来看属于亏损房源，现在要回归市场价，系统内部已经将这套房源锁上，续约的话需要向公司申请。
Asked why, the other side said that she is living in this set is bleeding house, according to the market price is a loss of housing resources, now to return to the market price, the system has locked the source of the suite, the renewal of the need to apply to the company.
“我的第一反应是不可能。
"My first reaction was impossible.
2020年1月，我隔壁房间还新签了一个客户，按优惠价格签了一年的合同。
In January 2020, I signed a new client in my next room and signed a one-year contract at a reduced price.
同样房源，为何我续租就不可以，新签的那户就可以入住？”肖莉莉告诉燃财经，那时候她人都没回去，租的房没人住还照样交房租，现在续租无门，自如这样对待老客户让她寒心。
The same source, why I can not renew the lease, the new account can check in? "Xiao Lilly told the burning finance, when she did not go back, rental housing people still pay rent, now no way to renew the rent, so easy to treat old customers like this let her cold.
由于疫情期间不便搬家，无奈之下她让管家帮忙申请续租，隔了两天对方回复了三个方案，简单来说就两个字：涨价。
Because the epidemic period is not convenient to move, but she asked the housekeeper to help apply for renewal of rent, every two days the other side replied to three proposals, in short, two words: price increases.
蛋壳管家给肖莉莉的续租涨价方案第一种方案是按照原价申请短租一个月，然后再去找其他房源，但自如没有审批下来；第二种是申请续租7个月，但这属于短租，要在原来的基础再加6%的租金涨幅。
The first option would be to apply for a one-month lease at the original price and then go for another source without approval. The second would be to apply for a seven-month lease extension, but it would be short-term, plus a rent increase of 6%.
按照现在3190元/月（不含服务费）的价格，总价要涨到3381元/月。
At the present price of 3190 yuan per month (excluding service charge), the total price will go up to 3381 yuan / month.
第三，不续约搬离。
Third, non-renewal of contract move away.
后来肖莉莉加了一些维权群，才知道很多自如租客都面临这种情况。
Later, Xiao Lili added some advocacy groups, only to know that a lot of easy tenants are facing this situation.
管家告知租客涨价维权群内，一位租客遇到了和肖莉莉同样的话术——之前说好提前一个月续约有服务费打7折的优惠，但续约时要涨价，租客还不能自己续约，只能由管家发起。
The housekeeper told tenants that a tenant had encountered the same tactics as Xiao Lilly, who had promised to renew his contract a month in advance with a discount of 70% on the service fee, but that the contract would be renewed at a higher price and the tenant could not renew it himself.
另外一位女生人还没有回到北京，遭遇涨价后不想续租，她在群里称，“我现在人还在外地，房子还有两天到期的时候，管家告诉我说房子续租不了了，我只能叫朋友去把东西搬走。
"I'm still out of town and with two days to go, the housekeeper told me the house could not be renewed and I had to ask my friends to remove it," she told the group.
这和高价卖口罩有什么区别？他们这是在特殊时期把我往外撵啊。
What's the difference between selling masks at high prices? They're putting me out of here in special times.
”微博“自如趁疫情涨价”话题微博上自如趁疫情涨房租的话题已有数千万人参与，其中热度最高的帖子写着：自如趁租客不便搬家换租时“坐地起价”，肆意哄抬租金，多地区续租普遍增长10%-30%，最高达38.3%。
Tens of millions of people have taken advantage of the epidemic to increase rents, with the hottest post saying: "Sit on the floor" and inflate rents while tenants are unable to move or rent.
对此，自如于2月10日公开回应称：“已经跟进到租客，多是因长租客想改为短期续约引起，与租客基本达成共识”。
"We have followed up with tenants, mostly as a result of long-term tenants wanting to renew their tenancies for a short period of time and have basically reached a consensus with the tenants," Mr Suen said.
但网友的高赞评论称：重新定义“与租客达成共识”。
But netizens' glowing comments said: "Redefine the" agreement with the tenant. "
疫情成了长租公寓模式的试金石对于长租公寓行业来说，年后本来是一波租房高峰期，现在因为疫情直接断送这波行情。
The epidemic has become a litmus test for the long-rented apartment industry, which was due to experience a surge in rental housing after a year, and is now being wiped out by the epidemic.
“根据以往的数据，年后基本上从初六开始，用户的网站和APP的访问量就开始攀升。
"According to previous data, the number of visits to users' websites and APPs has started to climb almost since the sixth day of junior high school.
今年因为疫情，大家短时间内都没有换房需求，数据断崖式下跌。
This year because of the epidemic, we have no short-term demand for housing change, data cliff-like decline.
”蘑菇租房联合创始人龙东平观察到，大家最愁的还是没办法带人看房，很多外地租客甚至还在老家没回来。
"Longdong ping, co-founder of mushroom renting, observed that the biggest worry was not being able to show people around.
爱分析高级分析师黄勇也告诉燃财经，长租公寓企业的现金流入主要依靠租金收入。
Huang Yong, a senior analyst with Analytics, also told Caijing that cash inflows from long-rented apartment companies rely heavily on rental income.
受疫情影响，各地复工时间推迟，导致春节后这段传统旺季中有租房需求的流动人口骤减，长租公寓的出租率显著下降，并出现一定比例的退租。
As a result of the epidemic, the resumption of work has been delayed, resulting in a sharp drop in the demand for rental housing in the traditional high season after the Spring Festival, a marked decline in rental rates for long-rented apartments and a certain proportion of rent refunds.
在运营层面，很多社区街道采取了较为严厉的防控措施，甚至拒绝外地租客进入小区，引发租客权益纠纷、疫情防控等事务需要处理；而长租公寓企业自身也和其他行业一样面临员工复工难等问题，加大了运营难度和人力支出成本。
At the operational level, many community streets have adopted more stringent control measures, even denying foreign tenants access to the community, causing tenant rights disputes, disease prevention and control, etc., while long-rented apartments themselves, like other industries, face difficulties in returning to work, making it more difficult to operate and labor costs.
在这种情况下，原本就现金流吃紧的长租公寓行业压力更大。
In this case, the cash flow is already tight in the long-rented apartment industry pressure is even greater.
按照业内默认的指标：出租率在90%以上才有可能盈利，目前整个行业都处于亏损。
According to the industry's default indicator: the rental rate of more than 90% is likely to be profitable, the entire industry is currently in the red.
根据青客公寓和蛋壳IPO时披露的财务数据，青客的账面资金不够维持一年，蛋壳的仅够再支撑3-4个月。
According to financial data disclosed at the IPO of Green Guest Apartments and Egg Shell, young people don't have enough money to last for a year and egg shells for another three to four months.
从1月9日青客发布的上市后首份财报来看，青客2019年第三季度成本及费用总额为4.37亿元，与上年同期的4.35亿元基本持平，其中，成本最高的是运营成本，达到3.45亿元。
According to the young people's first post-IPO earnings report released on January 9, the total cost and expenses for young people in the third quarter of 2019 was $437 million, almost the same as the previous year's $435 million, with the highest cost coming from operating costs of $345 million.
但第三季度净亏损为1.25亿元，较上一季度的净亏损7163万元扩大75%。
But the third-quarter net loss was $125 million, up 75% from the previous quarter's net loss of $71.63 million.
“过年之前空置的房源现在租不出去，已经入住的租客也没办法搬走、找房子，流动性被锁死，只能在老租客身上做文章。
"Before the Chinese New Year vacant housing can not rent out, has not been able to move tenants, find a house, mobility is locked up, can only on the old tenant.
”一位业内人士告诉燃财经，“实际上，这次处在风口浪尖的自如和蛋壳也是无奈，这个行业受损失最大的就是它们这种自己出钱拿楼、赚差价的公寓方。
"In fact, this time around the top of the storm and the eggshells are helpless," one industry insider told Caijing.
”该业内人士称，从企业角度来看，有些房源可能以前是为了促销降低了价格，本来这一轮租约到期就准备开始调价，只是正好赶上了疫情。
From a corporate point of view, some of the properties may have been used to reduce prices to promote sales, the people said, adding that the current round of leases was set to start moving prices just in time to catch up with the outbreak.
“但临时涨价的行为，大家肯定都会记在心里。
"But the temporary rise in prices will certainly be borne in mind.
越是这个关头，越是要采取更合理的沟通策略。
At this juncture, the more reasonable the communication strategy to be adopted.
”长租公寓行业诞生于2010年，随着房价高企以及城市化进程加快，激发了租房市场的爆发，资本大举押注，2015-2016年，长租公寓行业正式步入快车道。
The long-rented sector was born in 2010 and, with high house prices and accelerating urbanization, has spurred an explosion in the rental market, with capital heavily betting that the long-rented sector will be formally fast-tracked from 2015 to 2016.
知名房产博主鹏程蛇口称，通常来说，资本和大公司一旦介入一个行业，个人基本没有生存机会，但租房行业却相反。
Typically, when capital and large companies are involved in an industry, individuals have little chance of survival, but the rental sector is the opposite, says Peng Cheng, a leading property blogger.
个体化经营的二房东具有成本优势，在移动互联网时代，他们也可以各租赁平台发布租房信息，客源并不比机构差。
Individualized second landlords have the cost advantage, in the mobile Internet era, they can also rent the information platform, the source of customers is no worse than the agency.
相比之下，长租公寓没有足够的成本优势和渠道优势，根本赚不到钱。
Long-rented apartments, by contrast, do not have enough cost advantages and channel advantages to make money at all.
事实上，长租公寓们为了扩张规模，拿房的成本甚至高于个体二房东们。
In fact, the cost of renting apartments is even higher than that of individual landlords in order to expand.
为了上市，蛋壳需要迅速扩张，在去年也被曝出通过加价方式拿房。
To go public, eggshells need to expand rapidly, and were exposed last year to take their homes at a premium.
一位业主告诉燃财经，“我家的大开间，自如出价2500元，我爱我家出2700元，蛋壳出3000元。
A landlord told Flaming Finance, "My big open room, freely bid 2500 yuan, I love my family out 2700 yuan, egg shell out 3000 yuan.
收进来之后，两居改三居，再加价租出去，赚差价。
After the collection, the two living in three quarters, then rent out at a premium, earn the difference.
蛋壳比别的中介给的房租价格高500元，比小区业主直租还高200元。
Egg shell than other intermediaries to rent the price of 500 yuan higher than the small-area owners rent 200 yuan higher.
”“长租公寓看起来增加了出租房源，其实房东的房子是固定的，无论谁来打理和经营，总数没有变。
"" Long-rented apartments seem to have added a rental source, but the landlord's house is fixed, and no matter who takes care of it and runs it, the total number remains the same.
没有增加房源，长租公寓却要投入租金，面对高经营成本，他们就会提高租金价格，并希望在某个局部地方垄断房源，抬高租金。
Instead of increasing the supply of housing, long-rented apartments are being rented and, faced with high operating costs, they will increase rental prices and hope to monopolize the supply of housing in a local area and drive up rents.
”鹏程蛇口称。
"Now the snake says.
但这样的方式并不可持续。
But this approach is not sustainable.
上述业内人士称，不论通过谁来租房子，租客看中的还是价格和地段。
Regardless of who rents the house, the tenant is interested in the price and location, said one of the industry insiders.
“只要租客走进去一看，装修、电器、家具、环境，心里就有一杆秤了，租客有自己的鉴别能力。
"As long as the tenant goes into a look, decoration, electrical appliances, furniture, the environment, there is a scale in mind, tenants have their own discrimination.
”当品牌的作用被弱化时，涨价过度就会适得其反。
When the role of brands is weakened, excessive price increases can backfire.
疫情结束后将迎来反弹，2020年仍有新机会“长远来看，租房的需求其实还在，等疫情缓解之后，肯定会出现一波流量的反弹。
There will be a rebound after the epidemic ends, and there will still be new opportunities in 2020. "In the long run, the demand for rental housing is actually there.
”龙东平告诉燃财经，就看大家能不能挺到那个时候。
Mr Long told Flaming Finance to see if everyone could make it through.
业内人士认为，在这个阶段，不能完全依靠业主降租、政府扶持，更应该多方努力解决现金流，最大限度降低运营成本，及寻求新的融资渠道。
At this stage, people in the industry believe that, rather than relying solely on rent reduction and government support, more efforts should be made to address cash flow, minimize operating costs and seek new sources of financing.
同时，线上看房、社群招租等渠道也应该尝试，为疫情结束后的需求反弹做准备。
At the same time, online housing, community rental channels should also try to prepare for the end of the epidemic demand rebound.
现在不少长租公寓企业都开始开展线上看房，此前，自如等APP也有360度看房功能。
Now many long-rent apartment enterprises have begun to develop online housing, before, so easy to wait for APP 360-degree housing function.
“还可以通过租客群等垂直渠道进行招租。
"It can also be rented through vertical channels such as tenant groups.
”龙东平称，作为一家为全国中小公寓方提供SaaS管理系统的创业公司，蘑菇租房在2月份赠送总计100万份电子合同，将找房——签约——租后都搬到线上。
As a start-up company that provides SaaS management systems to small and medium-sized apartment complexes across the country, Mr. Long says mushroom rentals handed out a total of 1m e-contracts in February to find - sign - and rent and move online.
另外，鉴于一些长租公寓品牌的影响，如何运营好已经签约的存量租客，也是当务之急。
In addition, in view of the impact of some long-lease apartment brand, how to operate a good signed stock of tenants, is also an urgent matter.
一方面提升续租的可能性，降低退租风险；另一方面，租客转介绍，能降低获客成本，提高出租率。
On the one hand, increase the possibility of renewal, reduce the risk of renting; on the other hand, the tenant can reduce the cost of visitors, increase the rental rate.
“如有业主同意免租，也可以减免租客的租金。
"Tenants can also enjoy rent remission if they agree to rent-free.
”龙东平称，“业主租金占公寓整体运营成本的六成以上，跟业主和产权方争取优惠是最直接的节流方式。
"Owner rents account for more than 60 per cent of the overall operating cost of the apartment," says Mr Long. "Competition with owners and property rights is the most direct way to cut costs.
但说到底业主愿意降租是情分，不愿意降租是本分。
But after all, owners are willing to rent is a situation, unwilling to rent is a duty.
可以尝试半个月到1个月的降租，或根据目前的‘空置房源’去谈，成功率可能更大。
You can try a rent reduction of between half a month and a month, or talk about it based on the current 'empty house source' and the success rate is likely to be higher.
”现在整个长租公寓还处在以亏损来换规模的阶段，规模越大反而亏损得越多。
Long-rented apartments are now at the loss-for-scale stage, and the bigger the apartment, the more it loses.
对于市面上大量的几十、几百套规模的中小公寓玩家，没有人会专门去做亏本生意，所以往往还能盈利。
For the large number of small and medium-sized apartment players in the market, no one will be dedicated to the loss of business, so often can profit.
上述业内人士称，疫情之下，这些小公寓方由于资金储备不足，需跟进政府财税扶持政策，想办法借钱挺过去，或者拿以前的利润出来填坑。
Given the shortage of funds, these small apartment owners will need to follow the government's fiscal support policy and find ways to borrow money to tide them over, or to fill in the holes with their former profits, these people said.
最坏的打算就是急刹车，把房子退给业主，等疫情过去了再续租。
The worst-case scenario is to slam on the brakes and give the house back to the owner until the epidemic is over.
根据中指研究院发布的《2019长租公寓市场年报》，据不完全统计，2018年长租公寓领域，企业获得融资37笔，约1491亿元；而2019年仅有16笔，约360亿元， 金额不足去年的1/4。
According to the 2019 Annual Report on the Rent-a-Apartment Market, according to the Institute, companies received 37 loans worth about $149.1 billion in 2018, compared with 16 in 2019, or about $36 billion, less than a quarter of last year's total.
资金向头部企业靠拢，包括蛋壳、魔方、佳兆业、龙湖等。
Capital to head enterprises close to, including eggshell, Rubik's Cube, Jiaxiao industry, Longhu and so on.
2019年行业回归理性，2020年格局则将迎来调整。
The industry will return to reason in 2019, and the pattern in 2020 will be adjusted.
业内人士预测，长租公寓已经经历两次迭代，第三次迭代即3.0版的大型社区式租赁住房，将以大体量的优势影响着行业格局。
Industry insiders predict that long-rented apartments have gone through two iterations, with the third iteration, version 3.0, of large-scale community rental housing, affecting industry patterns by a large margin.
这类租赁住房也将是国家扶持重点，成为市场上重要的增量供给。
This type of rental housing will also be the focus of State support, becoming an important incremental supply in the market.
对于这类公寓而言，由于之前没有运营经验，所以住建部明确2020年将重点探索这类项目的运行机制，将其交予长租公寓机构运营，这也成为今年长租公寓行业的新机会所在。
In the case of such apartments, the Ministry of Housing has decided that in 2020 it will focus on exploring the operational mechanisms of such projects and handing them over to long-rent apartments, which is a new opportunity for the long-term rental sector this year.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情之下，蛋壳自如们吃相为什么这么难看？。
Why are eggshells so ugly to eat when they're sick?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情之下，蛋壳自如们吃相为什么这么难看？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why are egg shells so ugly to eat?;
var msg_desc = "年后本是租房高峰，因为疫情，流动性被锁死，公司只能打起了老租客的主意。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
