从“堵”到“治”，日本对策如何落在了疫情身后。
From "containment" to "governance," Japan's response to how to fall behind the epidemic.
田思奇。
Tennessee.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：共同社记者：田思奇  编辑：曾宇“ 多位日本专家学者一直呼吁，比防控边境以减少病毒输入更迫切的，是尽早为不可避免的国内疫情扩散做好防治和医疗准备。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Many Japanese experts and scholars have been calling for prevention and control of the border to reduce the virus input more urgent than the early preparation for the inevitable spread of the domestic epidemic and medical preparations.
”1月底，和田耕治希望日本在奥运会前有足够的时间来防御新冠肺炎。
At the end of January, Mr Wada hoped Japan would have enough time to defend itself against pneumonia before the Olympics.
“我们可能会得到更多有关病毒传染风险和重病风险的信息，所以我们还可以做准备，”这位国际医疗福祉大学公众卫生学教授1月29日对路透社说，“我们还能做一些控制传染的预防措施。
"We may have more information about the risk of infection and the risk of serious illness, so we can be prepared," the professor of public health at the University of Medical Well-being told Reuters on Monday.
我希望东京奥运会能如期举行。
I hope the Tokyo Olympics will be held as scheduled.
”和田耕治曾在2018年参与撰写一篇论文，审视2020年东京奥运会期间因游客涌入日本带来的可能健康风险。
Mr Kuroda co-authored a paper in 2018 examining the potential health risks posed by the influx of tourists into Japan during the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
当时的论文中，麻疹、风疹等可通过疫苗预防的疾病以及食物和水传播疾病，被视为最大的风险。
Measles, rubella and other vaccine-preventable diseases, as well as food and water-borne diseases, were considered to be the greatest risks.
这些最好不要兑现的“预言”还没成真，最大的风险却已在现实中存在——新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎（COVID-19）。
These "prophecies" that had best not be fulfilled have not materialized, but the greatest risk is already present - pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection (COVID-19).
2月16日，在日本确诊首例新冠肺炎患者整整一个月后，日本全国12地按原计划举行了马拉松大赛，多地参赛者均有过万之众。
On Feb. 16, a full month after the first case of pneumonia was diagnosed in Japan, 12 marathon races were held across Japan, with an overwhelming number of runners.
在疫情中戴着口罩奔跑的人们和即将主办奥运会的日本，可能正迎来另一场“抗疫”马拉松。
People running through the epidemic wearing masks and Japan, which is about to host the Olympics, may be entering another "plague" marathon.
图片来源：日本首相官邸16日晚，日本政府专家组会议虽未给出“日本处于患者迅速增加的‘感染期’”的判断，但确认“感染正处于早期，之后还会进一步发展”的共识。
Source: Japanese Prime Minister Mansion 16 night, the Japanese government panel meeting did not give "Japan is in the 'infectious period' of rapid patient growth," but confirmed that "infection is in its early stages and will further develop thereafter."
截至这一天，算上横滨港“钻石公主”号邮轮上的355人，日本已确诊新冠肺炎患者总计413例，是中国以外确诊人数最多的地区。
By that date, Japan had confirmed a total of 413 cases of New Crown Pneumonia, the highest number of confirmed cases outside China, including 355 on board the Yokohama Princess Diamond.
更让日本人忧心的是，最近确诊的多起病例“感染路径不明”，无法追踪病毒在日本的传播。
Even more worrying for the Japanese is the fact that many of the recently confirmed cases have "unidentified infection pathways" that do not track the spread of the virus in Japan.
日本厚生劳动大臣加藤胜信称，疫情“已经发生变化”，新冠肺炎“事实上已开始在日本流行”，“从现在开始有必要准备设想患者增加局面的对策”——这和政府一个月前的措辞已不可同日而语。
Japanese Health Minister Shinzo Kato said the epidemic had "changed" and that pneumonia was "in fact beginning to become popular in Japan" and that "it is now necessary to be prepared to envisage measures to increase the number of patients" - a departure from the government's wording a month ago.
日本经济新闻2月17日一则报道称，当下，日本应对疫情的重心已从口岸封堵转向医疗体制的完善。
Japan's focus on fighting the epidemic has shifted from containment to health care, the economic news agency said in a report on Feb. 17.
数周来，政府“注重边境管控、却未及时加强国内防疫”的措施为日本专家学者诟病，而把来自多国的3700人长期隔离在邮轮上的做法也备受国际舆论压力。
For weeks, Japanese experts and scholars criticized the government's "focus on border control, but failed to promptly strengthen domestic epidemic prevention," while the long-term isolation of 3,700 people from many countries from the cruise ship came under international public opinion.
世界卫生组织（WHO）高级顾问进藤奈邦子2月14日在横滨出席新冠病毒传染病紧急研讨会时干脆说：“现在全球担心的，是日本了。
"Japan is the world's biggest concern," Inocena, a senior adviser to the World Health Organization, told an emergency conference on the New Crown Virus epidemic in Yokohama on Feb. 14.
”边境防控：拒病毒于国门如果只看1月确诊的病例，日本国内只有居住或到访过中国的游客、以及接触游客较多的导游和司机被传染新冠肺炎。
Border control: Although the virus only looks at cases confirmed in January, only tourists who live in or visit China, as well as guides and drivers who come into contact with more tourists, have been infected with pneumonia.
1月16日确诊的首例患者是一名居住在日本的中国男子。
The first case confirmed on January 16 was a Chinese man living in Japan.
他1月3日在武汉期间曾发烧，6日返回日本，10日住院，一周后出院。
He had a fever on January 3 in Wuhan, returned to Japan on January 6, was hospitalized on 10 days, and was discharged a week later.
再之后一周，日本并无新增病例。
A week later, there were no new cases in Japan.
日本政府1月21日认为，当时“并未处于感染迅速蔓延的阶段”，仅要求入境者配合提供信息。
The government said on January 21 that it was "not in the stage of a rapid spread of the infection" and only asked people to cooperate in providing information.
首相安倍晋三23日称，“将尽全力防止疫情扩大”，要求强化口岸防控。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on the 23rd, "every effort will be made to prevent the spread of the epidemic," calling for strengthened port control.
厚劳相加藤胜信表示，将对所有中国抵日航班旅客加强检疫。
Mr Kato said he would step up quarantine on all Chinese passengers arriving in Japan.
随着春节假期到来，又有5名中国游客在日本确诊。
With the coming of the Spring Festival holiday, five more Chinese tourists were diagnosed in Japan.
这时，日本也开始在国内启动防疫措施，于1月28日将新冠肺炎列为“指定感染症”，进而可依法对患者实施强制住院、限制上班等措施。
At the same time, Japan also began to initiate epidemic prevention measures in China, January 28, the new crown pneumonia as a "designated infection," so that patients can be imposed compulsory hospitalization, restrictions on work and other measures.
一天后，关西地区出现第一起国内人传人病例。
A day later, Kansai region, the first domestic human-to-human cases.
大阪确诊一位大巴导游，她与28日确诊的奈良县巴士司机曾在同辆大巴上服务来自武汉的游客。
Osaka confirmed a bus guide, she and the 28-confirmed Nailian County bus driver in the same bus service from Wuhan tourists.
在日本政府包机从武汉带回的日侨中也出现确诊病患。
Confirmed cases have also appeared among Japanese nationals brought back from Wuhan on chartered flights by the Japanese government.
截至1月30日，包机日侨乘客中5人感染，其中4人无明显症状。
As at 30 January, five of the passengers on chartered flights were infected, four of whom had no apparent symptoms.
安倍晋三曾在1月24日的春节贺词中邀请中国人在假期和奥运会期间赴日旅游，但随着疫情蔓延，“期待大量中国游客到访日本”的说法在网上遭到质疑，随后日本外务省致歉称言论“不合时宜”，在30日将其从日本驻华大使馆官网删除。
Shinzo Abe, who invited Chinese tourists to Japan during the holidays and the Olympics in a Lunar New Year message on January 24, has been criticised online for "expecting large numbers of Chinese tourists to visit Japan," before Japan's foreign ministry apologized and removed it from the official website of the Japanese embassy in Beijing on January 30.
在世卫组织宣布将始于武汉的疫情列为“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”后，日本在1月31日将“指定感染症”相关法规的实施日期从2月7日提前到2月1日。
Japan moved ahead on January 31 from February 7 to February 1, after the WHO declared the outbreak, which began in Wuhan, a public health emergency of international concern.
也就是从2月1日起，日本采取罕见边境管控，开始拒绝曾在湖北逗留的外国人入境。
Since February 1, Japan has adopted rare border controls to deny entry to foreigners who had stayed in Hubei province.
然而，由于春节假期已有不少中国游客访日，且病毒人传人已获证实，一些学者对上述政策的实际效果表示怀疑，认为在“防”的同时也要加紧重视“治”。
However, since many Chinese tourists have visited Japan during the Spring Festival and human-to-human transmission of the virus has been confirmed, some scholars doubt the effectiveness of the policy and believe that "prevention" should be given more attention at the same time.
“我们必须要知道，日本已经出现了一些感染病例，”和田耕治在2月1日对《朝日新闻》说，“尽管入境禁令可以打消一些人的担心，但很难说这能在阻止病毒国内传播方面有什么效果。
"We have to be aware that there have been some cases of infection in Japan," he told Asahi Shimbun told Asahi Shimbun on Feb. 1. "Although the ban on entry may assuage some concerns, it is hard to say how effective it is in stopping the spread of the virus domestically.
”他敦促日本政府把重点放在如何阻止可能的感染发展为严重的病情。
He urged the government to focus on how to prevent potential infections from developing into serious illnesses.
“我们需要有一个中期到长期的应对态度，我们要阻止那些可能出现严重症状的高危人群感染，比如基础疾病患者和老年人。
"We need a medium- to long-term response, and we need to stop high-risk groups, such as people with basic illnesses and the elderly, who may have serious symptoms.
”他说。
'he said.
邮轮靠岸：不成功的隔离2月1日，在日本正式启动“指定感染症”相关法规当天，香港传来了一则令日本“如临大敌”的消息。
Cruise ashore: Unsuccessful quarantine February 1, the day Japan officially launched the "designated infection" related regulations, Hong Kong sent a message that Japan was "like an enemy."
一名曾在1月20日从横滨登上“钻石公主”号邮轮，五天后从香港下船的80岁香港男子，2月1日被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
An 80-year-old Hong Kong man who boarded the "Princess Diamond" from Yokohama on January 20 and disembarked from Hong Kong five days later was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 1.
接到通报后，厚劳省开始追踪这名患者的密切接触者，但有政府工作人员称“不认为擦身而过的情况会感染”。
When notified, Hou Lao began tracking close contacts with the patient, but some government officials said they did not think a brush-off would infect them.
不过，中国疫情的快速发展让日本不敢懈怠。
However, the rapid development of the epidemic in China does not allow Japan to slack off.
加速返回横滨后，邮轮上所有人在2月3日测量体温，有咳嗽、发热症状的人接受了病毒检测。
After speeding up the journey back to Yokohama, all people on board took their body temperature on February 3, and people with cough and fever symptoms were tested for the virus.
2月5日，船上已有10人确诊感染。
On 5 February, 10 people on board were confirmed to be infected.
这天起，应日本政府要求，船上2666名乘客和1045名船员被强制隔离14天，乘客不得离开船舱。
On that day, at the request of the Government of Japan, 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members were forcibly separated for 14 days and passengers were not allowed to leave the cabin.
安倍晋三对此表示，“面对大型客船内多人感染的情况，为防扩散必须采取万全措施。
"In the face of multiple infections in large passenger ships, we must take all measures to prevent proliferation," Abe said.
”停靠在横滨港的“钻石公主”号但外界并不了解船上的保护措施是否万全。
The 'Princess Diamond' docked in Yokohama, but no one knows whether the ship's protective measures are safe.
正如华盛顿大学传染病学副教授约翰·林奇（John Lynch）所说：“隔离保护的是隔离之外的人，而不是里面的人。
As John Lynch, an associate professor of infectious diseases at the University of Washington, put it: "Isolation protects those who are not isolated, not those who are inside.
”从2月5日至2月16日，邮轮上的确诊人数从10人激增至355人，感染率逼近10%。
From February 5 to February 16, the number of people diagnosed on a cruise ship soared from 10 to 355, with infection rates approaching 10 per cent.
船上乘客所属国家不断质疑日本在邮轮上实施隔离的做法。
The ship's passengers' countries continue to question Japan's practice of separation on board cruise ships.
哈佛大学免疫学教授埃里克·鲁宾（Eric Rubin）说：“这是一个封闭的环境，是一艘船，是传染病传播的完美场所。
Eric Rubin, a professor of immunology at Harvard University, said: "It's a closed environment, a ship, a perfect place for infectious disease to spread.
”俄外交部发言人扎哈洛娃也批评日方行动“混乱且不系统”，由此“引起了巨大的问题”。
Russia's foreign ministry spokesman, Dmitry Zaharova, also criticized the Japanese action as "chaotic and unsystematic," which "caused huge problems."
隔离期间，一名曾上船工作的检疫官和一名搬运过邮轮确诊患者的政府职员也感染了病毒。
During the quarantine period, a quarantine officer who had boarded the ship and a government employee who had handled the patient confirmed by the ship also contracted the virus.
据厚劳省调查，上述检疫官不仅没穿防护服、没戴护目镜，还曾重复使用口罩，且在擦汗后未对手部进行适当消毒处理。
Not only did the quarantine officer not wear protective clothing and goggles, but he also re-used the mask and failed to disinfect his part properly after sweating, according to a Hou Lao investigation.
随着感染病例激增，压力之下的厚劳省终于在2月13日宣布，将允许部分乘客前往政府安排的住宿点继续接受隔离，优先下船的乘客主要为有基础疾病的人士和80岁以上的年长乘客。
As the number of cases surged, the stressed-out province of Hou Law announced on February 13 that it would allow some passengers to continue to be quarantined at government-arranged accommodation, with priority being given to passengers with basic illnesses and elderly passengers over the age of 80.
2月15日后，80岁以下人士只要测试结果为阴性即可在2月19日隔离期满后下船，但与感染者同一房间的人仍将留在船上，或许要等到3月。
After February 15, people under the age of 80 can disembark after the 19 February quarantine period, provided the test results are negative, but those in the same room as the infected person will remain on board, perhaps until March.
2月15日到16日，美国、加拿大、中国香港先后表示，将派包机接回“钻石公主”号上的乘客。
From Feb. 15 to Feb. 16, the United States, Canada and Hong Kong, China, said they would send charter flights to pick up passengers from the Princess Diamond.
在乘客焦急等待隔离结束的时候，船上究竟已有多少人感染尚不得而知。
As passengers anxiously await the end of quarantine, it is unclear how many people on board have been infected.
尽管隔离期接近尾声，由于日方检测能力有限，截至2月16日，只有1219人接受了病毒检测，仅相当于船上3700人的三分之一。
As of February 16, only 1,219 people, equivalent to only a third of the 3,700 people on board, had been tested for the virus, despite the end of the quarantine period and limited Japanese testing capacity.
资源紧缺：准备工作不足在邮轮刚开始隔离的2月5日，安倍晋三强调“把维护国民的生命和健康放在首位”，但主要对策仍放在拒绝外国人入境的边境措施上。
Scarcity of resources: Lack of preparation On February 5, the day the ship first began to segregate, Abe stressed "putting the preservation of national life and health first," but the main response remained border measures to deny entry to foreigners.
他表示：“湖北省有5000万人，这相当于对日本半数的人口拒绝入境，现阶段范围已相当广。
"There are 50 million people in Hubei province, which is equivalent to refusing entry to half of Japan's population, which is quite extensive at this stage," he said.
”2月13日，禁止入境措施扩大至曾在浙江省逗留的外国人。
On February 13, the ban was extended to foreigners who had stayed in Zhejiang province.
“我的担心是，政府会认为关闭了边境，国家就安全了。
"My fear is that the government will think that by closing the border, the country will be safe.
”和田耕治2月4日对《日本时报》说。
He told the Japan Times Feb. 4.
“但现在政府应该做的，是根据国内会出现更多感染、疫情会持续恶化的假设，提前采取措施。
"But what the government should do now is take early action based on the assumption that there will be more infections in the country and the epidemic will continue to worsen.
”截至这一天，不算邮轮，日本已报告20例确诊病例。
By that date, Japan had reported 20 confirmed cases, excluding cruise ships.
一些与他一样的学者担心，政府专注于避免病毒从中国传入、而没有花大力气准备好应对国内病人的增加，可能最终被证明只是在“让不可避免的工作被拖后”。
Some pundits like him worry that the government's preoccupation with avoiding the introduction of the virus from China, rather than making a big effort to cope with the increase in domestic patients, may ultimately prove to be simply "putting off the inevitable."
“虽然不具有SARS那样的危险性，但和季节性流感相比，新冠肺炎或许更容易重症化。
"Although not as dangerous as SARS, coronary pneumonia may be more likely to be severe than seasonal flu.
”日本国立感染症研究所感染症疫学中心负责人铃木基2月9日通过共同社警告说，考虑到搭乘包机从武汉回国的人中有无症状感染者，“症状较轻或无症状的人通过检疫、已经入境的可能性并非为零。
Suzuki Suzuki, director of the Infectious Diseases Centre at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, warned on Tuesday through Kyodo news agency that, given the presence or absence of symptomatic cases among those returning from Wuhan on charter flights, "the chances of people with mild or asymptomatic symptoms passing through quarantine are not zero," Suzuki told Kyodo news agency.
”日本国内不少店铺口罩售罄 来源：WikiCommons在中国疫情蔓延时，日本民间和各地政府捐赠了大量包含口罩在内的物资。
Many stores in Japan sold out of face masks. As the epidemic spread in China, Japanese citizens and local governments donated large quantities of supplies, including masks.
“山川异域，风月同天”、“辽河雪融，富山花开；同气连枝，共盼春来”、“青山一道同云雨，明月何曾是两乡”等出现在物资箱上的诗句，更引发中国网民热议。
"Mountains and rivers exotic, the same day," "Liaohe melting snow, rich mountain flowers open; Qi, together, hope for spring," "Qingshan together with the clouds and rain, the moon has been the two townships," and other poetry appeared on the goods box, triggered more heated debate among Chinese netizens.
然而，当日本执政两党干事长表示愿举全国之力与中方共同抗击疫情时，日本国内的防疫形势也开始日渐严峻：普通店铺难寻口罩踪迹，跳蚤市场app上还出现大量售价远高于定价的商品。
However, when the chief executives of the two ruling parties expressed their willingness to join hands with China in the fight against the epidemic, the epidemic situation in Japan became more and more serious: ordinary shops were hard to find masks, and a large number of goods sold well above price appeared on flea markets.
厚劳省统计显示，国内医疗机构一个月需要约1亿只口罩。
According to statistics from the Ministry of Labor, about 100 million face masks are needed in China's medical institutions.
其中七成为海外生产，大部分N95口罩为中国制造，但中国也已供不应求。
Seven of them are manufactured overseas and most of the N95 are made in China, which is already in short supply.
日本国产口罩在原料上依赖中国的情况不少，进口陷入停滞，日本政府已为此提出紧急补贴对策。
Japanese-made masks rely heavily on China for raw materials, and imports have stagnated, prompting the Japanese government to offer emergency subsidies.
如何应对大范围传染病情势下的医疗资源紧缺，也是摆在政府面前的一道难题。
How to deal with the shortage of medical resources in a wide range of infectious diseases is also a difficult problem for the government.
“资源有限，医院总会有某些物资耗尽，如果说东京地区可以处理这样的情况，日本其他地方就不一定了，”和田耕治说。
"With limited resources, hospitals will always run out of supplies, and if the Tokyo area can handle this, the rest of Japan is not," he said.
“疫情可能还要持续至少几个月，政府最好制定一个计划，为长期应对做打算。
"The epidemic is likely to continue for at least a few months, and it would be best for the government to develop a plan for a long-term response.
”川崎市健康安全研究所所长冈部信彦2月12日对《日本经济新闻》表示，日本全国只有大约1800个传染病专用床位，如果轻症患者也要住院，医院将很快人满为患，优先治疗重症患者的机制非常重要。
There are only about 1,800 beds for infectious diseases nationwide, and hospitals will soon be overcrowded if people with mild illnesses are admitted to hospitals, the Kawasaki Health and Safety Institute (Kawasaki) told Japan Economic News on Tuesday.
曾在日本国立感染症研究所供职的冈部信彦指出，如果真正流行开来，仅靠专门门诊将难以应付，小诊所也要接收病人，要和大医院一样划出和其他患者区分开的行进路线，还要确保口罩、手套等卫生用品的库存，需要从现在起就开始做准备。
If it is to become popular, specialist clinics alone will struggle to cope, says Shinhiko Okamura, who worked at the National Institute of Infections in Japan. Smaller clinics will also accept patients, drawing separate routes from other patients, like major hospitals, and making sure that stocks of hygiene items, such as masks and gloves, are in stock from now on.
2月12日，在病患筛查方面，此前仅针对“曾在中国湖北省逗留过的人及其密切接触者”的方针得到了修改。
On February 12, regarding patient screening, the previous guidelines for "people who have been in Hubei province and their close contacts" were revised.
厚劳省宣布，对于高度疑似病例，即便不符合国家的检测标准，地方政府也要根据自己的判断，灵活进行病毒检测。
The province of Hou Lao announced that for highly suspicious cases, even if not in accordance with national testing standards, the local government should be flexible according to its own judgement, virus detection.
面对感染蔓延带来的检测需求扩大，日本政府也在加速开发新的试剂盒，力争把病毒检测时间从6小时缩短至30分钟，计划在3月底之前实现。
The Japanese government is also stepping up efforts to develop new kits in the face of increased testing demand from the spread of the infection, in an effort to reduce virus detection time from six hours to 30 minutes, with a target date of March.
此外，加上大学医院和民间检测公司的协助，日本每日检测能力有望从约300例增至约1100例。
In addition, with the assistance of university hospitals and private testing companies, the daily detection capacity in Japan is expected to increase from about 300 to about 1,100 cases.
东京慈惠会医科大学教授浦岛充佳表示，2月是日本疫情的第一个关键期。
Tokyo Tzu Chi University of Medicine professor Tzu Chi Tzu said February was the first critical period of the epidemic in Japan.
他在《日本经济新闻》2月11日刊登的采访中称，如果出现“不知道被谁传染的感染者”，就必须要警惕病毒的流行，减少人员大规模聚集也可以防止疫情扩大。
In an interview published Feb. 11 in the Japan Economic News, he said that if there were "no one to infect," it would be important to be alert to the epidemic, and reducing the large-scale concentration of people would also prevent the epidemic from spreading.
从堵转治：进入全新阶段之后的疫情扩散印证了这样的警告。
From containment to treatment: the spread of the disease into a whole new phase confirms this warning.
2月13日，日本出现首例新冠肺炎死亡病例，为一名八旬女子。
Feb. 13, the first case of death from pneumonia in Japan, an 80-year-old woman.
她的女婿是一名东京出租车司机，也被确诊，且两人感染路径不明。
Her son-in-law, a Tokyo taxi driver, was also diagnosed, and the route of infection was unknown.
此外，和歌山县一名50多岁男性外科医生也感染新冠病毒，这是日本国内首次确认有医生被感染——而他近期既没有前往海外，也没有与来自中国的人接触过。
In addition, a 50-year-old male surgeon in Wakayama Prefecture has also been infected, the first time a doctor has been confirmed to have been infected in Japan - and he has not travelled abroad recently or been in contact with people from China.
随后三天内，日本国内相继确诊近30例患者，包括与上述司机一起出席新年会的同事、场地工作人员、还有他的家人；和歌山县医生所在医院则先后有5人确诊，包括多名医生、医生的家人和住院患者。
Over the next three days, nearly 30 patients were diagnosed in Japan, including colleagues who attended the New Year party with the driver, site staff and his family. Five people, including doctors, their families and hospitalized patients, were confirmed at the hospital where the doctor worked.
日本厚生劳动省大臣加藤胜信 来源：NHK在此期间，包括名古屋、冲绳、北海道等全国多地发现的首例确诊病例，医疗部门均无法说明其接触史或可能被传染的活动路径。
Source: NHK, including Nagoya, Okinawa, Hokkaido, the first confirmed cases found in many parts of the country during this period, the medical authorities were unable to account for their history of exposure or possible routes of transmission.
冈部信彦表示，日本国内发现人传人感染和无症状感染者，说明病毒很可能已在各地悄悄扩散，“水际对策（即边境防控）”效果已大打折扣。
The discovery of human-to-human infections and asymptomatic infections in Japan suggests that the virus is likely to have crept up all over the country, reducing the effectiveness of the "water-to-water approach," he said.
当前应强化国内对策而不是边境防控，需要在病毒扩散后迅速提供及时治疗。
Domestic responses, rather than border control, need to be strengthened now, and prompt and timely treatment needs to be provided once the virus has spread.
他拿2009年日本针对H1N1型流感疫情举例说，当时日本的边境防控产生反作用，如果国民对边境防控措施寄予过高期待，当疫情最终爆发时，情绪上会形成巨大落差，引起恐慌。
He cited the example of the 2009 H1N1 influenza epidemic in Japan, where border control was counter-productive, and when people had high expectations of border control measures, when the outbreak eventually broke out, there was a huge emotional gap that caused panic.
2月14日，日本出现首例死亡病例次日，设在各地保健所的咨询中心接到大量民众咨询。
On February 14, the day after Japan's first case of death, counseling centers located in health centers received a large number of public inquiries.
“很担心，希望接受检查”、“买不到口罩”、“没去过中国，也没有高烧，能不能到医院接受检查”。
"Worried, want to be examined", "do not buy a mask," "have not been to China, nor high fever, can go to the hospital for examination."
鉴于各地相继出现感染途径不明的患者，厚劳相加藤胜信宣布“情况已与此前不同”，政府对策也出现大调整，国内防疫加强，2月14日起对无症状感染者也采取强制住院隔离，接受病毒检测的范围扩大。
In view of the emergence of patients with unknown infection routes, Hakushiko Kato announced that "the situation has been different," the government has also made major adjustments, domestic epidemic prevention has been strengthened, February 14 for asymptomatic infected persons also adopted compulsory isolation, the scope of the virus testing expanded.
按照新举措，只要有疑似肺炎等症状，无论是否曾到访湖北和浙江地区或有相关接触史，都将成为检测对象。
According to the new measures, as long as there are suspected pneumonia symptoms, whether or not they have visited Hubei and Zhejiang areas or have relevant contact history, will become the object of testing.
不过，在首例患者出现一个月后，日本民众对政府应对措施的评判已经体现在民调上。
But a month after the first case, the Japanese public's verdict on the government's response has been reflected in public opinion polls.
共同社15至16日的全国电话舆论调查显示，安倍内阁支持率降至41.0%，在“赏樱会”疑云未决和疫情的双重压力下较1月暴跌8个百分点。
Abe's cabinet fell to 41.0 percent, down eight percentage points from January, amid lingering doubts about the cherry blossoms and an outbreak of the disease, Kyodo news agency said in a national telephone poll released Wednesday.
至于新冠肺炎疫情扩大对日本经济的影响，回答“担忧”和“某种程度上担忧”的民众合计达82.5%。
As for the impact of the new crown pneumonia epidemic on Japan's economy, 82.5 per cent of the population answered "concerns" and "some degree of concern."
日本《每日新闻》2月15日的一篇社论称，之前“政府的紧急应对措施集中在支持旅游业和其他易受疫情影响的行业，并防止病毒进入日本。
Japan Daily News said in an editorial Feb. 15 that "the government's emergency response has focused on supporting tourism and other vulnerable industries and preventing the virus from entering Japan.
现在国内感染已经进入一个新阶段，应该把重点转移到确保日本能够应对进一步增加的患者数量上。
Now that domestic infection has entered a new phase, the focus should shift to ensuring that Japan is able to cope with a further increase in the number of patients.
”“也就是说，政府似乎已经落后于形势一步，并面临着越来越大的压力。
"In other words, the government seems to be one step behind the curve and is under increasing pressure.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从“堵”到“治”，日本对策如何落在了疫情身后。
From "containment" to "governance," Japan's response to how to fall behind the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "从“堵”到“治”，日本对策如何落在了疫情身后";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "多位日本专家学者一直呼吁，比防控边境以减少病毒输入更迫切的，是尽早为不可避免的国内疫情扩散做好防治和医疗准备。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and many Japanese experts and scholars have consistently called for early prevention and treatment of the inevitable spread of the disease, more urgent than border control to reduce virus imports.
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
