疫情数据虽有好转，但能否持续要等到4月中旬。
Although the epidemiological data have improved, they will not last until mid-April.
疫情数据虽有好转，但能否持续要等到4月中旬。
Although the epidemiological data have improved, they will not last until mid-April.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 数据线SJX。
The following article comes from the data line SJX.
Author 张媛 初彦墨。
Author Zhang Yan-yuan.
数据线SJX。
Data line SJX.
一张图，又快又深又有趣儿（手动滑稽）。
A picture, quick and deep and funny (manual funny).
作者：张媛 初彦墨  编辑：陈臣“ 考虑到数据的滞后性，春运的影响要等到4月中旬才能在官方公布的数据中得以体现。
Author: Chen Chen: Given the data's lag, the effects of the Spring Festival travel won't be reflected in the official figures until mid-April.
”自“新冠”肺炎病例被通报以来，至今已一月有余。
More than a month has passed since the New Crown pneumonia was reported.
钟南山院士曾公开表示，“早发现、早诊断、早隔离是最原始、最有效的办法”。
Academician Zhong Nan Shan has publicly said, "early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation is the most primitive, the most effective method."
那么，大家“宅”在家里，效果如何？从数据上来看，能够直观反映隔离效果的指标为“密切接触者”和“尚在医学观察者”。
So what is the effect of "house" at home? Statistically, the indicators that visually reflect the effect of isolation are "close contacts" and "medical observers."
隔离效果显现据国家卫健委数据，截至2月16日，全国累计追踪到的密切接触者54.6016万人。
As of February 16, a total of 546.16 million close contacts had been traced nationwide, according to figures from the National Fitness and Health Commission.
其中，湖北地区为19.1434万人，非湖北地区为35.4582万人。
Of these, 191,434 were in Hubei and 354,582,000 in non-Hubei areas.
虽然全国累计追踪到的密切接触者数量已突破50万人，但从每日新增密切接触者数据来看，情况已有所好转。
Although the cumulative number of close contacts tracked nationwide has exceeded 500,000, the situation has improved with the addition of close contacts on a daily basis.
1月20日以来，全国每日新增密切接触者增速趋缓。
Since January 20, the daily increase of close contacts has slowed down.
同时，自2月7日起，新增数量整体呈下降趋势。
At the same time, there has been an overall downward trend in the number of new additions since 7 February.
这也意味着各地的防控措施，已经在发挥作用。
This also means that local control measures are already working.
在疫情最严重的湖北地区，自2月3日起，每日新增密切接触者人数也呈现出下降趋势。
Since February 3, the number of new people in close contact with each other has also been on the decline in Hubei province, where the epidemic is most severe.
与此同时，非湖北地区“隔离”成效更加明显。
At the same time, non-Hubei "isolation" is more effective.
2月9日以来，每日新增密切接触者数量已连续七日下降，同时，其增速在此前已有过五次负增长。
The daily number of new close contacts has fallen for the seventh straight day since February 9, after five negative growth rates.
新增确诊病例数大幅增长可能性降低从另一项指标来看，据国家卫健委数据，自2月4日起，全国、湖北地区及非湖北地区尚在医学观察的密切接触者数量分别达到“高位”。
According to another indicator, the number of close contacts under medical observation in China, Hubei and non-Hubei regions has reached "high" levels since February 4, according to another indicator.
但从每日新增情况来看，全国、湖北和非湖北地区每日新增尚在医学观察者均已降为负值。
However, the daily increase in the number of medical observers in China, Hubei and non-Hubei regions has been reduced to negative value.
这意味着尚在医学观察者的存量或见顶，同时，也降低了每日新增确诊病例数大幅增长的可能性。
This means that the stock of medical observers may be peaking, while at the same time reducing the likelihood of a significant increase in the number of newly diagnosed cases per day.
数据之外，现实情况也是如此。
Beyond the data, the reality is the same.
2月16日，雷神山医院院长王行环表示，“真正的疫情拐点已经来到，现在里面消耗的很多都是存量”。
"The real inflection point of the epidemic has come," Wang Xinghuan, director of the Raytheon Hospital, said on Feb. 16.
能否持续乐观，要等到4月中旬2月3日，疾控中心流行病学首席科学家曾光称，“疫情下降的拐点已经出现，但还潜藏着上升的拐点”。
If optimism is to continue, wait until mid-April 3, when the CDC's chief epidemiologist, Zeng Guang, said: "The inflection point for the decline has emerged, but there is a potential for an upward turn."
现在最大的担忧就是春运。
The biggest worry now is Spring Festival.
今年的春运和往年大不相同。
Spring Festival is very different this year.
大年初一（1月25日）到情人节（2月14日），全国共发送旅客2.83亿人次、日均1348万人次。
From January 25 to February 14, China has sent 283 million passengers a day, an average of 13.48 million.
此次春运，还有更多的人还没踏上返程。
The Spring Festival, and many more people have not yet set foot on the return journey.
2月6日铁路部门发布公告称，继续延长退票时限，纸质车票退票延期至3月31日。
On February 6, the railway authorities issued a notice to continue to extend the time limit for refund of paper tickets to 31 March.
今年的“春运”会被拉长到何时仍未可知。
How long this year's "Spring Festival" will be stretched remains to be seen.
据交通部数据，今年除夕前14天，全国铁路、道路、水路、民航日发送旅客数维持在6万-9万人次之间，整体略高于去年同期（同比增速为正值）。
According to the Ministry of Communications, the number of passengers sent by railways, roads, waterways and civil aviation days remained between 60,000 and 90,000 nationwide 14 days before New Year's Eve, slightly higher than the same period last year.
这也就是说，年前返程的人不仅没有变少，甚至比去年还要多一点。
In other words, not only did the number of people returning home a year ago not change, but a little more than last year.
除夕之后，疫情持续发酵，返程人数大幅下降。
After New Year's Eve, the epidemic continued to ferment and the number of people returning dropped dramatically.
自1月25日起，全国铁路、道路、水路、民航日发送旅客数持续22天同比下降。
Since January 25, the number of passengers sent by railways, roads, waterways and civil aviation days has fallen 22 days year on year.
其中，有18天降幅超80%。
Of these, 18 days fell by more than 80 per cent.
这意味着，年后大多数人还没有返程。
This means that most people are not back in about three years.
2月11日，交通运输部数据显示，从现在到春运结束（2月18日），预计还有1亿6千万人要陆续返程返岗。
On February 11, the Ministry of Transport reported that another 160 million people were expected to return home between now and the end of the Spring Festival (Feb. 18).
4天后，交通运输部再次透露，未来一段时间，主要是农民工返岗和学生返校客流。
Four days later, the Ministry of Transport again revealed that for some time to come, mainly migrant workers returning to work and students returning to school.
预计2月底前客流以农民工返岗流为主。
Migrant workers are expected to return to work before the end of February.
综合判断，农民工返程客运量约为3亿人次，到目前已经返程约8000万人次，到2月底将要返程约1.2亿人次，3月以后返程约1亿多人次。
Overall, migrant workers have returned to about 300 million passenger trips, about 80 million have returned so far, about 120 million by the end of February and more than 100 million since March.
中国疾控中心流行病学首席科学家曾光称，按发病时间估计，拐点比返程高峰推迟一个潜伏期出现，如果按确诊时间估计，还要后延一周左右的时间。
According to Zeng Guang, chief epidemiologist at the China CDC, the inflection point was estimated to be one week later than the peak of the return journey, and about a week later if estimated at the time of diagnosis.
据界面数据估算，若以铁路部门退票截止日期3月31日为春运结束期限，考虑到7-14天潜伏期，另加上一周检测时间。
According to the interface data, if the railway sector refund deadline of 31 March for the end of the Spring Festival transport, taking into account the incubation period of 7-14 days, plus a week of testing time.
考虑到数据的滞后性，春运的影响要等到4月中旬才能在官方公布的数据中得以体现。
Given the lateness of the data, the impact of the Spring Festival travel will not be reflected in official figures until mid-April.
此前，钟南山院士预测峰值将在2月中下旬出现，希望4月前能结束。
Earlier, academicians predicted a peak in mid-February, which they hoped would end by April.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情数据虽有好转，但能否持续要等到4月中旬。
Although the epidemiological data have improved, they will not last until mid-April.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情数据虽有好转，但能否持续要等到4月中旬";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; though the epidemic data has improved.
var msg_desc = "考虑到数据的滞后性，春运的影响要等到4月中旬才能在官方公布的数据中得以体现。
var msg _ desc = & quot; given the lateness of the data, the effects of the Spring Festival courier didn't show up in official figures until mid-April.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
