独家|重回武汉肺炎起点：卖野味的华南市场老板是谁？。
Back to Wuhan Pneumonia Start: Who owns the South China market that sells game?
郝成张家振王迎春。
Hao Chengzhao ZhenWang Ying Chun.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
本报记者 郝成 张家振 王迎春 武汉报道目前确诊2000多人，引发全国高度关注，导致武汉封城的新型冠状病毒，被专家指来自于武汉市华南海鲜批发市场（以下简称“华南海鲜市场”）。
This reporter Hao Cheng Zhang Jing Wang Ying Chun Wuhan reported that the current diagnosis of more than 2,000 people, caused high national concern, resulting in Wuhan sealing the new coronavirus, experts from Wuhan City, South China seafood market (hereinafter referred to as "South China Seafood Market").
该市场内的野生动物，则可能是最初病毒的携带、传播者。
The wild animals in this market may be the carriers and disseminators of the original virus.
21天前，1月2日，《中国经营报》曾报道华南海鲜市场疑似存在野生动物。
Twenty-one days ago, on January 2, the China Business Daily reported a suspected presence of wild animals in the South China seafood market.
当地市场监管局在2019年9月25日发文中，曾透露有8家持有野生动物经营许可审批文件。
In a letter dated 25 September 2019, the local market regulator revealed that there were eight documents for licensing wildlife operations.
“实际上他有非法经营的野生动物，我们从非法经营野生动物的摊位，通过环境样本的检测，找到了病毒的基因组。
"In fact, he has illegally operated wildlife, and we have located the virus's genome from the stalls where wildlife is illegally operated, through the testing of environmental samples.
”近日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员高福，在电视上告诉公众。
Gao Fuk, a high-level expert group member of the National Fitness Commission, told the public on television.
华南海鲜市场，实际隶属于武汉华南置业集团有限公司（以下简称“华南集团”），其法定代表人为余甜，股东余其泽，系余甜的弟弟。
South China Seafood Market, which is actually subordinate to Wuhan Huangnan Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "South China Group"), its legal representative is Yu sweet, shareholders Yu Qizai, is a sweet brother.
余甜据传与官员之子结婚。
Yu allegedly married the official's son.
其父亲余祝生被当地社会人士尊称为“大哥”。
His father Yu Zhu-sheng is respected by the local community as "Big Brother."
余祝生异常低调。
Yu Chu-sheng kept a low profile.
人们更多知晓的，则是其前妻赵红，赵红曾在1999年至2006年之间管理过华南海鲜市场。
More widely known is his ex-wife Zhao Hong, who managed the South China seafood market between 1999 and 2006.
“余祝生长期前往澳门赌博，去年10月26日，和赵红到民政局办理了离婚。
"Yu Chu-sheng went to Macao to gamble, and last October 26, Zhao Hong went to the Civil Affairs Bureau for divorce.
他们分居十几年了，赵红早就没有管理企业了。
They separated for more than 10 years, Zhao Hong long ago did not manage the enterprise.
”1月26日，余祝生、赵红的亲属告诉《中国经营报》记者，余祝生在很多人看来，是一位“大哥”，但赵红曾斥其“德不配位，必有灾殃”。
"Yu Zhu sheng, Zhao Hong's relatives told China Business Daily on January 26 that Yu Zhu sheng was seen by many as a" big brother, "but Zhao once denounced him as" evil without coordination.
疫情发生后，该市场在关闭后，还曾组织租户到现场退租，此举被网友批评为故意扩大疫情。
After the outbreak, the market closed, but also organized tenants to rent out the scene, a move criticized by netizens as deliberately expanding the epidemic.
1月1日，记者曾前往华南集团采访，但遇到当地宣传部人员阻拦。
January 1, the reporter went to South China Group to interview, but encountered local propaganda staff blocked.
随后，当地一份新闻通稿，下发前也被要求撤销。
This was followed by a local press release, which was also requested to be withdrawn before distribution.
据中国疾控中心消息，最新检测结果证实，武汉华南海鲜市场存在大量新型冠状病毒。
According to the China CDC, the latest test results confirm that Wuhan South China seafood market there are a large number of new coronavirus.
“大哥”余祝生“2019年10月26日，余祝生和赵红去民政局办的离婚证，但实际情况是，他们分居十几年了，赵红也没有管企业十几年了。
"Big Brother" Yu Zhu Sheng "On October 26, 2019, Yu Zhu-sheng and Zhao Hong went to the Civil Affairs Bureau to obtain a divorce certificate.
他俩没有共同的孩子。
They have no children of their own.
”一位亲属透露，目前网络传播极广的赵红，确实是湖北省摄影家协会副主席，但她没有参与企业管理已经十多年。
Zhao Hong, now widely publicized online, is indeed vice-president of the Hubei Photographers Association, but has not been involved in corporate management for more than a decade, a relative said.
该亲属曾多次与赵红长谈往事，也与余祝生相识25年，因此对华南海鲜市场背后的余祝生家族极为熟悉。
The relative has talked to Zhao Hong about the past several times and has known Yu Zhu-sheng for 25 years, so he is familiar with the family behind the South China seafood market.
亲属告诉记者，赵红早年曾学过企业管理，也因此，在1994年两人结婚后，从1999年到2006年之间，赵红曾管理过华南海鲜市场。
Relatives told reporters that Zhao Hong had studied business management in her early years, and as a result, Zhao managed the South China seafood market between 1999 and 2006 after their marriage in 1994.
余祝生系1962年生人，出生在武汉一个城中村，是家中第八个孩子，上面有4个哥哥、3个姐姐，文化程度很低，小学未毕业，早年在建筑行业打拼。
Born in 1962 in a Wuhan city village, Yu Zhu sheng is the eighth child of his family, with four brothers and three sisters. He has little education, has not graduated from primary school and worked in the construction industry in his early years.
现在，社会上的人会叫余祝生一声“大哥”。
Now, the community will call Yu Zhu Shengsheng a "Big Brother."
其与赵红结婚前，与前妻育有余甜、余其泽姐弟俩。
Before his marriage to Zhao Hong, his ex-wife had more than sweet, Yu Qizhe sisters and brothers.
该亲属认为，当时赵红管理期间，华南海鲜市场还是很不错的。
The relatives believe that Zhao Hong management period, the South China seafood market is still very good.
“非典、禽流感时期，每天消毒，一起（传染）都没有发生，这个你可以找工商部门核实。
"SARS, avian flu, daily sterilization, a [infection] did not occur, you can check with the business sector.
但是大概是2006年前后，余祝生住到香格里拉不回家了。
But around 2006, Yu stayed until Shangri-La did not go home.
当时我们亲属劝赵红去接回来，赵红好像也没去接。
At that time, our relatives advised Zhao Hong to come back, Zhao Hong did not seem to pick up.
”网传赵红早年照片。
"Zhao Hong early photos online.
图片来自网络该亲属称，在那之前，余祝生便经常前往澳门赌博，一年去几次，但后来变成了一个月去一次。
Before that, Yu traveled to Macao to gamble several times a year, but later became a month, the relatives said.
赵红当时即对这种行为颇多怨言。
Zhao Hong was complaining about this behavior at the time.
但真正矛盾爆发，则是一次收购行为。
But the real contradiction broke out in the form of an acquisition.
当时，武汉市一家大型棉纺厂出现危机，广东投资商要撤出，没人接盘。
At that time, Wuhan, a large cotton mill crisis, Guangdong investors to withdraw, no one to take over.
“市领导给赵红说，说你老公余祝生以前想过要这家企业，你们现在接一下，帮一下武汉，赵红就拿了几千万元去接，结果余祝生后来知道就很生气。
"The city leader said to Zhao Hong, said that your husband Yu Zhu sheng wanted this enterprise before, you now next, to help Wuhan, Zhao Hong took tens of millions of dollars to take, the result Yu Zhu-sheng later know very angry.
”这位亲属回忆称，余祝生当时认为赵红太过高调，甚至怀疑赵红是不是和协会里的什么人联合起来，对企业进行夺权。
The relative recalled that Mr. Yu thought Zhao Hongsheng was too high-profile and even wondered if he was joining forces with someone in the association to seize power.
网传在一本赵红摄影集上，赵红曾向丈夫余祝生签字表示感谢。
On a photo album of Zhao Hong, Zhao Hong once expressed thanks to her husband, Yu Zhu-sheng.
但亲属透露，彼时二人已经分居，且此后再未恢复关系。
But relatives said the couple had separated at the time and had not resumed relations since.
图片来自网络赵红在接手棉纺厂后，曾一度被员工等逼得想要自杀。
Photo from the network Zhao Hong after taking over the cotton mill, was once forced by employees to suicide.
赵红曾告诉自己一位老师，“她说，老师，你再不来看看我，我可能就开车冲到长江里面去了。
Zhao Hong once told a teacher to herself, "She said, teacher, if you don't come to see me, I'll probably drive into the Yangtze River.
她说当时有员工拿着剪刀要捅她，银行还有一堆负债，她那个时候好艰难的”。
She said she had employees holding scissors to stab her, and that the bank had a pile of debts. She had a hard time. "
也是在此后，赵红的名字从企业消失，不再管理企业。
Also after this, Zhao Hong's name disappeared from the enterprise, no longer manages the enterprise.
“这次事情出来，也有很多人问赵红，实际她早就不管企业了，而且分居十几年，去年离婚的，两个人又没有共同的儿女，她和余祝生都没有联系了。
"This time, a lot of people asked Zhao Hong, in fact, she has long abandoned the business, and after more than 10 years of separation, last year divorced, two people do not have common children, she and Yu Zhu-sheng have no contact.
”受访亲属称，但赵红早前未对家人透露离婚一事，认为50多岁的人，离婚丢人。
Relatives interviewed said Zhao Hong had not told her family about the divorce earlier, saying it was humiliating for people in their fifties.
一个细节是，余祝生住到香格里拉大概5年后（2011年前后），某天夜里，忽然带人回家搬走家中大多数东西。
One detail is that about five years after living in Shangri-La (around 2011), Mr. Yu suddenly took someone home one night to remove most of the family's belongings.
“赵红第二天回家，还以为被抢劫了。
Zhao Hong came home the next day thinking he had been robbed.
问保姆，保姆不敢说，查了监控，才知道是余祝生干的，她当时就说余祝生这个人‘德不配位，必有灾殃’。
Ask nanny, nanny dare not say, checked the surveillance, just know is Yu Zhu sheng did, she said at that time to wish this person 'moral coordination, there must be disaster'.
”亲属称赵红学佛近20年，多数想的，是与人为善。
"Relatives say Zhao Hongxue Buddha has studied Buddhism for nearly 20 years.
家族企业庞大据湖北省摄影家协会官网，2019年12月18日，“视觉长江——庆祝新中国成立70周年湖北省摄影作品展”在北京、武汉举行。
The Great Visual Yangtze River - Hubei Province Photography Exhibition Celebrating the 70th Anniversary of the founding of New China was held in Beijing and Wuhan on December 18, 2019.
根据宣传画信息，该展出指导单位有湖北省委宣传部，主办单位则有湖北省发改委，协办单位则是武汉华南置业集团，即赵余家族核心企业。
According to the poster, the exhibitors include the Publicity Department of the Hubei Provincial Commissariat, the host of which is the Hubei Provincial Development and Reform Commission, and the Wuhan South China Home Ownership Group, or Zhao Yu's core enterprise.
组委会委员中也出现了赵红的名字。
The name of Zhao Hong also appeared among the members of the organizing committee.
受访亲属称，实际上此次赞助，是赵红自掏腰包10万元支持的。
Relatives interviewed said Zhao actually paid 100,000 yuan for the sponsorship.
“当时协会没什么经费，也管得严，赵红就自己掏了这个钱，给华南集团挂名，也是觉得这样做，能让社会对这个企业好感多一些。
"At that time, the association did not have any funds, strict control, Zhao Hong paid the money themselves, to the South China Group, also feel that doing so, can make the community more favorable to the enterprise.
但实际上，协会让她找华南集团盖章，她没去的。
But in fact, the association asked her to see the South China Group seal, she did not go.
应该也没有这个盖章的事情。
There should be no such thing as a seal.
”该亲属认为，从这件事看，离婚后，赵红也是希望余祝生、华南集团在社会上有个好名声的。
The relatives said Zhao Hong also wanted Yu Zhu-sheng and South China Group to have a good reputation in society after the divorce.
针对余祝生被网络上指责曾暴力拆迁、涉黑等问题，以及《中国经营报》记者早前采访了解到的一些情况，如余祝生与前妻所生女儿余甜嫁入官员家庭等，亲属表示，不便回应。
Yu Zhu-sheng was accused of violent demolition, blackening and other issues on the Internet, as well as "China Business News" reporters earlier interviews, such as Yu Zhu sheng and his daughter married into the official family, relatives said, inconvenience to respond.
受访亲属也拒绝就余祝生做进一步评价，但其承认社会上是有人尊余祝生为大哥的。
Relatives interviewed also declined to comment further on Yu, but acknowledged that there were people in the community who wished him well.
赵红，是赵余家族中唯一高调的一位，其他人信息则鲜见于互联网。
Zhao Hong, Zhao Yu family is the only high-profile one, others information is rare on the Internet.
赵红在湖北、武汉摄影界颇具声名。
Zhao Hong is well-known in Hubei and Wuhan photography circles.
摄影作品也在业内受到认可。
Photographic works are also recognized in the industry.
公开信息显示，赵红 1965年生于湖北武汉，1998年毕业于中国社科院研究生院。
Zhao Hong was born in 1965 in Wuhan, Hubei Province, and graduated from the Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in 1998, according to public information.
武汉大学官网一篇文章称，赵红还在2006年进入该校，攻读新闻与传播学院艺术摄影专业。
Zhao also entered the school in 2006 to study art photography at the School of Journalism and Communication, according to an article on Wuhan University's website.
据天眼查资料，上述余甜及其家人，实际控制企业多达50多家，除了大量企业在武汉注册外，在北京、上海、天津、西安也有注册企业。
According to Heaven's eye, Yu and his family actually control more than 50 enterprises, in addition to a large number of enterprises registered in Wuhan, in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Xi'an also registered enterprises.
这些企业涉及房地产、建筑、物业、典当、传媒等多个领域。
These enterprises involve real estate, construction, property, pawn, media and other areas.
这些企业在年报中留下的联系人等信息，也高度一致。
These enterprises in the annual report left contact information, also highly consistent.
其中，1994年注册成立的武汉市华南桩基有限公司，系余氏家族最早企业。
Among them, the Wuhan South China Pile Foundation Co. Ltd, registered in 1994, is the earliest enterprise of Yu family.
多个企业年报中留下的联系方式等，也高度重合。
Annual reports of a number of enterprises left in the contact information, also highly overlapping.
但赵红、余祝生，在近年多次工商变更后，渐渐从企业董监高信息中淡出，余甜则开始显名。
But Zhao Hong, Yu Zhu Shengsheng, in recent years a number of industrial and commercial changes, gradually fade out of the high information, Yu sweet began to show.
此外，其直接、间接投资企业数量，则近百个。
In addition, its direct and indirect investment in the number of enterprises, close to 100.
但一些企业，从公开信息检索来看，似乎并未在实际经营，留待进一步求证。
However, some enterprises, from the public information retrieval, do not seem to be actually operating, leaving further evidence.
记者曾逐一联系所有企业留下的手机号等，但均未获正面回应。
Reporters have been one by one contact all enterprises left the mobile phone number, but no positive response.
记者也曾分别拨打赵红、余祝生手机号，并发送短信，但未获接听、回复。
The reporter also called Zhao Hong, Yu Zhu sheng mobile phone number, and sent text messages, but did not receive, answer.
野生动物之谜疫病出现前，相关检查证实，至少有8家商户经营野生动物。
Prior to the emergence of the game, tests confirmed that at least eight businesses ran wild animals.
但现在，相关部门否认曾向商户下发野生动物经营利用许可证。
But now authorities deny issuing permits to traders to operate wild animals.
上千家商户中，至少有8家，在经营野生动物。
There are at least eight out of thousands of businesses that deal in wildlife.
这可以从武汉市场监管局2019年9月25日发布的消息确定：“在华南海鲜批发市场内，市区两级执法人员对售卖虎斑蛙、蛇、刺猬等动物的近8家商户进行地毯式排查，逐一检查其野生动物经营许可审批文件、营业许可证，严禁其经营未获审批的野生动物”。
"At the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, law enforcement officials at both levels conducted a blanket check on nearly eight businesses selling tiger frog, snake and hedgehog animals, checking their wildlife license approval documents and business licenses one by one, and strictly forbidding them from trading wild animals that have not been approved.
华南海鲜市场隶属于华南集团，该集团自疫情发生以来，未接受媒体采访。
South China Seafood Market belongs to South China Group, which has not been interviewed by the media since the outbreak.
图为2020年1月1日的华南集团内部。
The picture shows 1 January 2020 within the South China Group.
本报记者 张家振 摄当天，武汉市场监管局联合林业、森林公安等部门，开展野生动物市场专项整治行动，在华南海鲜市场，未发现违法经营行为。
On the same day, Wuhan Market Supervisory Authority, jointly with the forestry and forest public security departments, launched a special campaign to regulate the wildlife market.
彼时，华南海鲜市场负责人表示，将加大对商户进货索证索票的检查力度，一旦发现商家存在违法违规经营行为，将第一时间向执法部门报告，并清理出市场。
At that time, the head of the South China Seafood Market said he would step up inspection of merchants' demand for documents to collect tickets.
“西区就有十几家贩售野味的商户，售卖的野生动物包括野鸭、蛇、野兔等。
"There are a dozen venison merchants on the West Side, selling wild ducks, snakes, rabbits, etc.
那些商铺所处的位置都很偏僻，卖的东西有些我都不认得，每天去买的人也不少。
Those shops are located in a remote location, I do not know some of the things sold, every day to buy a lot of people.
”近日，有来自华南海鲜市场的住院业主及其亲属接受《中国经营报》记者采访时称，该市场分东西两区，仅西区就有十几家商户经营野生动物。
In a recent interview with China Business News, hospital owners and relatives from the South China seafood market said the market is divided between east and west, with about a dozen businesses in the western region alone.
2020年1月1日，华南海鲜批发市场关闭后，相关工作人员正在采样检验。
On January 1, 2020, after the closure of the South China Wholesale Seafood Market, workers are taking samples for inspection.
本报记者 张家振 摄目前专家认为，新冠肺炎病毒来自野生动物。
Our reporter Zhang Jiazhenshe current experts believe that the new crown pneumonia virus from wild animals.
2013年，在SARS过后十年时，研究表明SARS病毒传播源头是中华菊头蝠。
In 2013, 10 years after SARS, research showed that the source of the SARS virus was the Chinese chrysanthemum bat.
2020年1月23日，中科院武汉病毒研究所石正丽团队发表文章报道了武汉新型冠状病毒2019-nCoV，指出该病毒与一种蝙蝠中的冠状病毒的序列一致性高达96%。
On January 23, 2020, the team of Shi Zhengli of Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences published an article on Wuhan's new coronavirus 2019-nCoV, pointing out that the virus has a sequence consistency of up to 96% with a coronavirus in bats.
学界认为，蝙蝠是狂犬病病毒、尼帕病毒、汉塔病毒等众多动物源病毒的重要宿主，而中华菊头蝠被东南亚一带作为食物，中药“夜明砂”即由蝙蝠的粪便制成。
Bats are thought to be important hosts for many animal-borne viruses such as rabies virus, nipa virus and hantavirus, while Chinese chrysanthemum bats are used as food in Southeast Asia.
我国不少饭店提供蝙蝠煲汤等菜品，专家认为，其宰杀、加工等环节，极易发生病毒传染。
Many restaurants in China provide dishes such as bat soup, experts believe that its slaughter, processing and other links, easy to virus infection.
另有研究标明，冠状病毒在蝙蝠和骆驼等动物中极为常见，但只在极少情况下病毒才会发生变异传染给人类。
Other studies have shown that coronavirus is extremely common in animals such as bats and camels, but only in rare cases does the virus mutate and infect humans.
世卫组织对2012年出现的中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒（Middle East Respiratory Syndrome，MERS）的调查显示，该病毒可能源自蝙蝠，先传给骆驼，再由骆驼传给人类。
According to WHO research on the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS), which emerged in 2012, the virus may have originated in bats and passed on to camels and then to humans.
行政许可潜规则1月1日，记者前往华南集团采访时，有当地宣传部人员阻拦。
Unauthorized rules of administrative licensing January 1, the reporter went to the South China Group interview, the local propaganda department staff blocked.
本报记者 张家振 摄此外，记者从大量论文中发现，自SARS发生17年来，始终有专家在呼吁，要求公众慎重接触野生动物，因野生动物本身所携带的病毒等较多，且不少并不为学界所掌握。
In addition, Zhang Jiaoren, a reporter, found from a large number of papers, since SARS occurred 17 years ago, experts have been calling for the public to carefully contact wild animals, because wild animals themselves carry more viruses, many of which are not known to the academic community.
我国《野生动物保护法》规定，出售、利用非国家重点保护野生动物的，应当提供狩猎、进出口等合法来源证明。
The Law on the Protection of Wild Animals stipulates that any person selling or using wildlife under special non-state protection shall provide evidence of lawful sources such as hunting, import and export.
依据法规，对于野生动物经营，除了需要获得相应行政许可外（多在林业主管部门），还需要对获得的野生动物进行报批、检疫等（这一环节涉及市场监管、检疫部门）。
According to the regulations, in addition to obtaining the corresponding administrative permission (mostly in the forestry authorities), wild animals acquired need to be reported for approval, quarantine and so on (this link involves the market supervision and quarantine departments).
1月22日，财联社采访武汉市园林和林业局相关负责人时，其称未向华南海鲜市场颁发野生动物经营利用许可证。
On January 22, FFA interviewed the head of the Wuhan Landscape and Forestry Administration and said it had not issued a license to the South China Seafood Market to operate wild animals.
1月26日，《中国经营报》记者联系到武汉市园林和林业局，其值班人员称，印象中，在前几年的简政放权改革中，涉及野生动物经营许可，已经下放到区，但至于下放前他们是否有对华南海鲜市场商户进行审批，他们表示需要进一步了解。
On January 26, China Business Daily reporters contacted the Wuhan Landscape and Forestry Administration and said they were under the impression that in previous years of decentralization reforms involving wildlife licenses had been decentralized to the district, but they said they needed to know more about whether they had approved South China seafood market traders before the delegation.
对于财联社早前报道，其称并不准确。
Fannie and Freddie had earlier reported that its claim was inaccurate.
江汉区行政审批中心值班人员向记者透露，该中心审批多为材料接收，接收材料后，则分送具体业务单位，对于野生动物经营审批，她并不具体了解。
Jiang Han District Administrative Clearance Center duty staff revealed to reporters that the center for the approval of most materials, after receiving materials, then distributed to specific business units, she did not have specific knowledge of wildlife business approval.
江汉区园林局一位科长则对记者表示，该局从未有过该项审批权限。
Jiang Han District garden bureau chief told reporters that the bureau has never had the right to approve.
“有一种情况是，经营许可证下发同时，主管部门会开出一张处罚或作废许可证的通知，但不填写时间。
"In one case, at the same time as the licence is issued, the competent authority issues a notice of the penalty or cancellation of the licence, but does not fill in the time.
什么意思呢？为的就是一旦出事，（经营业主）你自己填上时间，这个时间要早于出事时间，这样主管部门就免除责任了。
What do you mean? If something happens to you, you fill in the time before the accident so that the competent authorities are absolved of responsibility.
这个情况过去是普遍存在的潜规则。
This used to be the norm.
”近日，记者采访西北某地市林业主管部门退休官员时了解到，野生动物经营除了由林业部门出具许可证外，日常经营活动，则需要市场监管部门、检疫部门等多部门监管。
In a recent interview with retired officials from forestry authorities in a northwestern city, reporters learned that wildlife operations require multi-sectoral supervision by market regulators and quarantine authorities, in addition to licensing by the forestry department.
据新华社2015年9月报道，湖北丹江口市林业系统腐败窝案，源于该局下设管理站副站长张正学。
According to Xinhua News Agency in September 2015, the case of corruption in forestry system in Danjiangkou City, Hubei Province, originated from Zhang Zhengxue, vice-president of management station under the bureau.
该地一名落网后的普通干部感叹：“原以为是冷衙门，没想到也能贪这么多钱！”据央视报道，2018年，江西省森林公安局公布的一起贩卖野生动物案中，涉案动物1.7万余只，销售网络覆盖全国15个省份。
In 2018, the Central Television (CCTV) of Jiangxi Province reported a case involving more than 17,000 animals involved in a wildlife trafficking case, with a sales network covering 15 provinces, CCTV reported.
经专案组透露，有不少公职人员参与贩卖。
The panel revealed that a number of public officials were involved in trafficking.
有野生动物保护管理部门工作人员，为不法分子非法开具运输证明文件，充当保护伞，为犯罪活动提供便利。
There are wildlife protection management department staff, illegal issuance of transport documents for illegal elements, as an umbrella, to facilitate criminal activities.
2015年6月，《湖北日报》曾报道，武汉市工商行政管理局原党组成员、总经济师周展洪涉嫌滥用职权罪、受贿罪被逮捕。
In June 2015, the Hubei Daily reported that Zhou Jianhong, a former member of the Wuhan Municipal Administration for Industry and Commerce and chief economist, had been arrested on suspicion of abusing his authority and accepting bribes.
但此后再未见审判信息。
However, no further information on the trial has been received.
（编辑：孟庆伟 校对：彭玉凤）推荐阅读点击大图 | 物资驰援武汉之困：有钱找不到人和车点击大图| 新型肺炎毒种首次分离 30种潜力药被发现。
(Edited by Meng Qingwei, proofread by Peng Yufeng), materials have been found to help Wuhan: poor people and cars with money The first separation of 30 potential drugs from the new strain of pneumonia has been found.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
独家|重回武汉肺炎起点：卖野味的华南市场老板是谁？。
Back to Wuhan Pneumonia Start: Who owns the South China market that sells game?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "独家|重回武汉肺炎起点：卖野味的华南市场老板是谁？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "据中国疾控中心消息，最新检测结果证实，武汉华南海鲜市场存在大量新型冠状病毒。
var msg _ desc = & quot; According to China's CDC, the latest test results confirm that Wuhan South China seafood market has a large number of new coronavirus.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '物资驰援武汉之困：有钱找不到人和车',。
Wuhan has been at the mercy of its rich people and car and services.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '新型肺炎毒种首次分离 30种潜力药被发现',。
AT & P & P's first separation of 30 potential drugs was found at & apos;.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
