武汉再造“小汤山”，当年的设计师叮嘱“保证安全是首位”。
Wuhan re-create "Xiaotangshan," the designers of that year told "to ensure safety is the first priority."
谭畅。
Tan Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲黄锡璆。
Good intentions.
采访对象供图全文共3809字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The interview object is 3809 words, and it will take about 8 minutes to read.
北京干燥，武汉湿润，这是最大的不同。
Beijing is dry and Wuhan is humid, which is the biggest difference.
湿润的气候条件可能利于病毒的生存和传播，对医院的防水工作提出了更高的要求。
Wet climatic conditions may be conducive to the survival and spread of the virus, the waterproofing work of hospitals put forward higher requirements.
小汤山当时主要是用板材。
Xiaotangshan was mainly made of slabs.
武汉用现成的集装箱房是个很好的想法，速度会更快，而且尺寸统一。
Wuhan using ready-made container rooms is a good idea, speed will be faster, and size uniformity.
不过，要尽可能满足无障碍推行的使用需求。
However, accessibility requirements should be met to the extent possible.
我们建议武汉不要在医院现场焚烧。
We advise Wuhan not to burn on site in hospital.
武汉有很多集中的医疗垃圾废弃物焚烧点，用专用车辆、专用容器送到外面去集中烧。
Wuhan has many concentrated medical waste incinerators, with special vehicles, dedicated containers sent to the outside to focus on burning.
我还建议广泛使用IT技术。
I also recommend extensive use of IT technology.
从院外转运病人时，首先要利用网络传输病人数据资料，纸质病历有可能传播病原。
Transporting patients from the hospital, the first use of the network to transmit patient data, the paper-based medical records may spread the pathogen.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 谭畅南方周末实习生 李佩云责任编辑 | 何海宁“不计其数的施工队，有做管网的，有打混凝土的，有做路基的，有装集装箱房的……密密麻麻，到处都是车，到处都是人。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”2020年1月27日，正月初三，刘伟（化名）在武汉火神山医院施工现场，注视着自己公司的集装箱式活动房（以下简称“集装箱房”）被工人改装成隔离病房。
On January 27, 2020, Liu Wei (not his real name) at the construction site of Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, watched his company's containerized mobile room (hereinafter referred to as "container room") and was converted into an isolation ward by workers.
脚下这片面积近百亩的土地位于武汉市蔡甸区，毗邻知音湖，原是武汉职工疗养院的后备用地。
The nearly 100-acre tract of land under foot is located in Cai Den district of Wuhan, adjacent to Zhiyin Lake, which was a reserve site for Wuhan staff sanatorium.
1月23日晚上七点，本已放假回家的疗养院酒店前台小谢接到回去上班的通知，“因为上面临时决定，要用7天时间在疗养院建一所新医院”。
January 23rd at 7 p.m., the hotel reception Xie, which had been home for the holiday, received a notice to go back to work. "Because of the temporary decision, it will take seven days to build a new hospital in the sanatorium."
张伟也是在23日接到应急医院承建单位中建三局的电话，紧急采购1.5万平米的活动房和200个集装箱房。
Zhang Wei was also 23 in the emergency hospital contractor set up three Bureau telephone, urgent procurement of 15,000 square meters of mobile homes and 200 container rooms.
“我们不是唯一的供货商，武汉好多同行都接到通知了。
"We are not the only supplier and many of our Wuhan counterparts have been informed.
”张伟说，货是现成的，困难的是在过年时召集安装集装箱房的工人，“我们给工人一天1500元，比平时的三倍还多”。
Zhang said the goods were readily available, and the difficulty was to assemble the workers to install the container at the New Year's end. "We gave the workers 1,500 yuan a day, more than three times the usual rate."
这所被命名为“火神山”的医院可容纳813张床位，预计2月2日可整体移交军方管理，开始收治病人。
The 813-bed hospital, known as Mount Fire, is expected to be handed over to the military on February 2 to begin treating patients.
1月27日，开工三日后，火神山医院已经建成第一栋楼，连通5G网络。
On 27 January, three days after the start of construction, the first building of the Mount Huoshen Hospital was completed, connecting the 5G network.
与此同时，二十多公里外的江夏区黄家湖边，武汉市第二所应急医院——雷神山医院也已开工。
At the same time, more than 20 kilometers away, Jiangxia District Huangjia Lake, Wuhan City's second emergency hospital - Lei Shenshan Hospital has also started.
据媒体报道，雷神山医院床位将达1500张，在武汉支援应急医院建设的原小汤山医院副院长邓传福告诉媒体，建第二所医院“是一些领导考虑到现在的疫情，心里比较急，担心火神山一所医院床位不够”。
According to media reports, the number of beds in Lui Shenshan Hospital will reach 1,500, and Deng Chuanfu, vice-president of the former Xiaotangshan Hospital, which was built in Wuhan to support the emergency hospital, told the media that the second hospital was built "because some leaders are worried about the shortage of beds in a hospital in Mount Fire.
武汉在新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情下修建火神山、雷神山医院，无疑受到2003年抗击SARS时期北京建小汤山医院的启发。
Wuhan in the new coronavirus infection pneumonia under the construction of fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan hospital, no doubt by the fight against SARS in 2003 Beijing built Xiaotangshan Hospital inspired.
小汤山医院仅用7天建成，从4月30日晚收治第一例SARS患者，到6月20日最后18例患者出院，它一共“服役”50天。
The hospital, which took only seven days to complete, admitted the first SARS patient on the night of April 30 and discharged the last 18 patients on June 20 for a total of 50 days.
在收治的680例患者中，只有8例死亡，治愈率接近99%。
Of the 680 patients admitted, only 8 died, representing a cure rate of close to 99 per cent.
而全院1383名医务人员，无一人感染。
There were 1,383 medical staff in the hospital, none infected.
1月27日上午，南方周末记者电话采访了小汤山医院的设计者、中国机械工业集团有限公司中国中元国际工程有限公司（下称“中国中元”）医疗首席总建筑师黄锡璆。
On the morning of January 27, Southern Weekend reporter interviewed by phone the designer of Xiaotangshan Hospital, China Zhongyuan International Engineering Co. Ltd. (CHINA CHINA CHINA CHINESE INDUSTRY ENGINEERING CO., LTD.
黄锡璆已年届八十，他从未想过，当年为小汤山医院赶制的设计图纸，17年后会再次派上用场。
Huang Xiang is 80 years old, he never thought that the design drawings for Xiaotangshan Hospital would come in again 17 years later.
1集装箱房建病房，比小汤山更快南方周末：你是什么时候得知武汉要按照“小汤山模式”建应急医院的？黄锡璆：1月23日中午，一封加急的求助函送到中国中元。
When did you learn that Wuhan was going to set up an emergency hospital with "Xiaotangshan Model"? Huangxi: At noon on January 23, an urgent help letter was sent to China's Zhongyuan.
函件是从武汉市城乡建设局发过来的，里面说了解到我们设计了小汤山医疗点，有丰富的传染病控制区设计经验，希望我们提供小汤山医疗点的全套图纸，帮助武汉以备急用。
The letter was sent from Wuhan Urban and Rural Construction Bureau, which said that we have designed Xiaotangshan Medical Point, rich experience in the design of infectious disease control area, hope we can provide Xiaotangshan Medical Point full set of drawings, help Wuhan in case of emergency.
我们公司立刻整理小汤山的图纸，下午两点多把修订完善的图纸送达对方。
Our company immediately sorted out the drawings of Xiaotangshan and sent the revised drawings to each other at 2: 00 pm.
同时中国中元成立了技术支持专家组，为武汉市随时提供技术咨询和建议。
At the same time, China Yuan established a technical support team to provide technical advice and suggestions for Wuhan city.
小汤山医院总平面图。
Master plan of Xiaotangshan Hospital.
采访对象供图南方周末：小汤山医院用地原本是小汤山疗养院预留用地，这次武汉的火神山医院也是建在疗养院里。
The interview object for Tu Southern Weekend: Xiaotangshan Hospital land was originally reserved for Xiaotangshan sanatorium, this time Wuhan's fire god mountain hospital is also built in sanatorium.
应急医院的选址有什么讲究？黄锡璆：小汤山的医务人员工作强度和压力都很大，工作完了需要退到生活区休息，我们称作“安全区”。
What about the location of emergency hospitals? Huangxi: Xiaotangshan medical staff work hard and pressure, after the work needs to retire to rest areas, we call it "safe area."
另外，他们工作一段时间后需要换防，换防后要在生活区观察两个礼拜才能回家。
In addition, they work for a period of time after the need to change, after the change of observation in the living quarters before returning home.
那么小汤山医院就是把原来的疗养院作为医务人员的生活区。
So Xiaotangshan Hospital is the original sanatorium as a medical staff living quarters.
应急医院的建设工作很紧急，利用现成的成熟设施作生活区，就可以集中精力建设病区。
The construction of the emergency hospital is urgent and the use of ready-made and sophisticated facilities as living quarters allows the concentration of efforts on the construction of the affected areas.
应急医院最好选择市政系统成熟、交通便利、周边人口稀少的地方，同时要综合考虑当地环境因素。
Emergency hospitals should preferably choose areas with mature municipal systems, convenient transportation and a sparsely populated neighbourhood, taking into account local environmental factors.
武汉方面是在确定（火神山医院）选址以后给我们发函的，他们和当地环保部门应当协同评估过。
Wuhan after the selection of the site to send us a letter, they and the local environmental authorities should be jointly assessed.
南方周末：考虑到北京和武汉环境因素的差异，武汉建造应急医院有哪些注意事项？黄锡璆：北京干燥，武汉湿润，这是最大的不同。
Southern Weekend: Considering the differences between environmental factors in Beijing and Wuhan, what precautions Wuhan should take when building an emergency hospital? Huangxi: Beijing is dry and Wuhan is wet.
湿润的气候条件可能利于病毒的生存和传播，对医院的防水工作提出了更高的要求。
Wet climatic conditions may be conducive to the survival and spread of the virus, the waterproofing work of hospitals put forward higher requirements.
病区地面要有高差，防止积水。
There should be height difference on the ground to prevent water accumulation.
患者通道也不能露天，最好能加个遮雨棚。
Patient passageway also cannot open air, had better add a shelter.
要是用电空调采暖，室内温度升高可能会滋生细菌，还要增加通风量。
If electricity is used for heating, rising indoor temperatures may breed bacteria and increase ventilation.
这些我在给武汉方面的建议中都写到了。
I wrote all this in my advice to Wuhan.
南方周末：应急医院怎么设计能减少医务人员感染？黄锡璆：有一个基本原则，叫“医患分区分流，洁污分区分流”。
Southern Weekend: How can the emergency hospital design can reduce the infection of medical staff? Huangxi: There is a basic principle, called "doctor-patient division diversion, decontamination zoning shunt."
小汤山医院病房功能组织图。
Functional organization chart of ward of Xiaotangshan Hospital.
采访对象供图小汤山医院中间有一条中轴线通道是综合办公区，六排病房沿着中轴线对称分布。
The object of interview is a central axis channel in the middle of Xiaotangshan Hospital. Six rows of wards are symmetrically distributed along the central axis.
医务人员平常从生活区进入中轴线办公，当他们要进入病区时，沿医务人员专用通道走，先经过一个卫生通过室。
Medical personnel usually work from the living area to the central axis, and when they are about to enter the sick area, they walk along the medical staff aisle, passing through a sanitary transit room.
他们在里面戴上口罩，穿上防护服，全副武装进入病区。
Inside, they put on masks and protective clothing and entered the sick area heavily armed.
接触完病人退出来时，他们再次经过卫生通过室，全身冲洗后换上干净衣服，回到生活区。
After contact with the patient exits, they again go through the sanitary room, wash the whole body into clean clothes, back to living quarters.
而病人进入病房是用病房外侧的通道，所以病人通道和医务人员通道是严格分开的，病人不会经过清洁区域。
The patient enters the ward using a passageway on the outside of the ward, so the patient's access is strictly separated from that of the medical staff and the patient does not pass through the clean area.
医务人员通过传递窗递送食品、药品，尽量只在必要时才进入病房，这样可以减少医务人员和病人的直接接触。
By delivering food and medicine through the transfer window, medical personnel try to enter the ward only when necessary, thus reducing the direct contact between the medical staff and the patient.
我们加了风扇控制气流组织，使空气从中间的干净区域向两边污染区域单向流动。
We added fans to control the air flow from the middle of the clean area to the two sides of the pollution area one-way flow.
当时还想加入更复杂的过滤系统，但是没有来得及。
More sophisticated filtering systems were wanted, but not in time.
南方周末：有武汉火神山医院的施工人员看过图纸，他们告诉我，火神山医院的布局也是中间有一根主轴，ICU病房、隔离病房、康复病房等沿中轴线分布。
Southern Weekend: the construction staff of Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital have seen the drawings, they told me that the layout of the fire god mountain hospital is also a spindle, ICU wards, isolation rooms, rehabilitation wards and other along the central axis.
黄锡璆：我们把图纸都提供过去了，武汉方面应当会采纳。
Huangxiang: We have provided the drawings, Wuhan should be adopted.
洁污分区的设计理念不光对应急医院有用，SARS之后新建的一些传染病医院，像北京地坛医院、潮白河医院都做得比较严格。
The concept of clean-up area is not only useful for emergency hospitals, some new infectious diseases hospitals after SARS, such as Beijing Ditan Hospital, Chaobai River Hospital have done more stringent.
小汤山医院的布局叫作中轴对称的鱼骨状布局，这种布局还有一个好处，有利于分头施工、赢得时间。
The layout of Xiaotangshan Hospital is called axisymmetric fishbone-like layout, which also has the advantage of separate construction, to win time.
因为小汤山的建设速度要求非常快，当时六排病房是六家不同的施工单位在做，他们采用不同的建筑材料，有的是混凝土，有的是不同规格的板材，所以每一排都不一样。
Because the pace of construction of Xiaotangshan is very fast, at that time six different construction units are working in the ward, they use different building materials, some concrete, some different specifications of the plate, so each row is different.
中间一条通道把六排病房串起来，自然就形成这样的布局。
The six rows of wards are strung together by a passage in the middle, which naturally creates such a layout.
南方周末：武汉这次采购了大量集装箱房用作病房，基本是统一规格的。
Southern Weekend: Wuhan has purchased a large number of container rooms for use as wards, the basic specifications.
黄锡璆：小汤山当时主要是用板材。
Huangxi: Xiaotangshan was mainly with the plate.
武汉用现成的集装箱房是个很好的想法，速度会更快，而且尺寸统一。
Wuhan using ready-made container rooms is a good idea, speed will be faster, and size uniformity.
不过，集装箱下部的钢框架有可能导致病房与外面走廊之间出现门槛。
However, steel frames at the bottom of the container may lead to a threshold between the ward and the outside corridor.
根据小汤山医院经验，虚弱病人轮椅推行、移动式检查设备推行几率较大，要尽可能满足无障碍推行的使用需求。
According to the experience of Xiaotangshan Hospital, the implementation of wheelchairs for frail patients, mobile inspection equipment is more likely to be implemented, to meet the needs of barrier-free implementation as far as possible.
Play▲武汉雷神山医院建设现场，工人正在改装集装箱。
Wuhan Raytheon Hill Hospital construction site, workers are changing containers.
采访对象提供2不建议现场焚烧医疗垃圾南方周末：前几日有公众担心，火神山医院会不会污染知音湖水体。
Interviewee 2 does not recommend the site incineration of medical waste Southern Weekend: a few days ago there was public concern that the fire god mountain hospital will not pollute the lake body.
现在雷神山医院也是临湖建造的。
Now Lei Shenshan Hospital is also built by the lake.
黄锡璆：我们提醒了武汉，医院的污水处理是相当重要的。
Huangxi: We reminded Wuhan, hospital sewage treatment is quite important.
小汤山医院当时因为来不及，就利用疗养院原有的游泳池，改造后加上盖板，作为一个污水处理设施。
Xiaotangshan Hospital because it was too late, the original use of the nursing home swimming pool, retrofitted with a cover, as a sewage treatment facility.
前几天我们也讨论，因为建污水处理池一般要用现浇的钢筋混凝土，武汉方面可能来不及，所以建议他们用现成的大型水箱。
We also discussed a few days ago, because the construction of wastewater treatment tanks usually use cast-in-situ reinforced concrete, Wuhan may not be enough, so it is recommended that they use ready-made large water tanks.
后来听说他们有现成的污水处理装置，也是钢结构的，运到现场后可以快速安装。
They were later told that they had ready-made sewage treatment plants, also made of steel, which could be installed quickly after transport to the site.
那就采用现成的产品，可以加快进度。
Then use off-the-shelf products to speed things up.
医院污水经过处理后达标了，一般还是排到市政管网，传染病医院也是这样操作的。
Hospital sewage after treatment standards, or generally to the municipal network, infectious disease hospitals are also operating.
南方周末：小汤山医院是怎么处理医疗垃圾的？黄锡璆：这个问题也很重要。
Southern Weekend: How does Xiaotangshan Hospital deal with medical rubbish? Huangxi Zhuang: This question is also very important.
传染病人接触的东西，回收时要特别注意。
People exposed to infectious diseases should pay special attention to their recovery.
我们在小汤山医院设置了一个焚烧炉，垃圾送到焚烧炉之前先要进行环氧乙烷灭菌。
We set up an incinerator at Xiaotangshan Hospital where the waste is sterilized with ethylene oxide before it is sent to the incinerator.
焚烧也不是一般的焚烧，烧出来是白灰。
Incineration is not a general incineration, but a white ash.
但是因为垃圾里面的有机物，烧起来有异味，像烧头发的味道一样，还是对周围环境有一些影响。
But because of the organic matter in the trash, it smells bad, like the smell of burning hair, or has some effect on the environment.
这次我们建议武汉不要在医院现场焚烧。
This time we advised Wuhan not to be burned at the hospital site.
武汉有很多集中的医疗垃圾废弃物焚烧点，用专用车辆、专用容器送到外面去集中烧，我们做了这个建议。
Wuhan has a lot of medical waste incinerators, with special vehicles, dedicated containers to be sent outside to focus on burning, we made this proposal.
南方周末：设计小汤山医院时，你参考过哪些国际经验？黄锡璆：国际上有地震的应急设施，一般采用充气结构、气囊结构，也有集装箱结构，或者列车结构，这些资料我也看过。
Southern Weekend: What international experience have you referred to when designing Xiaotangshan Hospital? Huangxi: There are international emergency facilities for earthquakes, usually with inflatable structures, air bags, container structures, or train structures, which I have seen.
但是在像SARS这样的疫情下建设大规模的应急医院，小汤山应该是首例。
But Xiaotangshan should be the first to build a large-scale emergency hospital in an epidemic like SARS.
我们是按照当时的对传染病的理解设计小汤山的。
We designed Xiaotangshan according to the understanding of infectious diseases at that time.
南方周末：小汤山医院的建设人员曾回忆，建设过程中设计方案不断更改。
Southern Weekend: The construction staff of Xiaotangshan Hospital recalled that the design of the project changed constantly during the construction process.
比如护士站原本没有要求装空调，后来发现医务人员穿着隔离服工作，非常热，中途又加装空调。
For example, the nurse station did not require air conditioning, but later found that medical staff wearing isolation clothing, very hot, and air-conditioning midway.
黄锡璆：应急设施不可能十全十美的。
Huang Xi: Emergency facilities can not be perfect.
有一开始没想到的地方，也有想得很好但当地没有材料实施不了的。
There are places that were not thought of at first, places that are well thought out but where there is no material that cannot be carried out.
设计图纸只是一部分，一定要因地制宜。
Design drawings are only part of the plan and must be adapted to local conditions.
比如小汤山医院的医疗影像设备装在了医院的角落里，本来按照诊断流程，放在进门的地方更合适，结果发现和那片区域原有配电箱位置冲突。
For example, Xiaotangshan Hospital medical imaging equipment installed in the corner of the hospital, according to the diagnostic procedures, placed in the door more appropriate, and found that the area and the original distribution box location.
那只能是放在不太好的位置，后来医院配置了电瓶车来运送病人。
It had to be put in a bad position, and then the hospital was equipped with a battery car to transport patients.
还有小汤山因场地有限，每个护理单元之间的距离仅有12米。
There is also a small Tangshan site due to limited space, each care unit between the distance of only 12 meters.
这次我们建议武汉把距离扩大到18米到20米，可以进一步降低感染风险。
This time, we recommend Wuhan to increase the distance to 18 meters to 20 meters, can further reduce the risk of infection.
保证安全是首位的，好看和舒适度是次要的。
Safety is paramount, and good looks and comfort are secondary.
南方周末：你还向武汉方面提出了什么建议？黄锡璆：我建议武汉在清洗救护车的地方建一个防止污水外溅的棚子，这也是为了减少感染风险。
Southern Weekend: What advice did you put to Wuhan? Huangxi: I suggest Wuhan build a shed to prevent the spatter of sewage in the area where the ambulance is cleaned, also to reduce the risk of infection.
小汤山因为时间限制，没来得及建。
Because of time constraints, Xiaotangshan did not build in time.
我还建议广泛使用IT技术。
I also recommend extensive use of IT technology.
从院外转运病人时，首先要利用网络传输病人数据资料，纸质病历有可能传播病原。
Transporting patients from the hospital, the first use of the network to transmit patient data, the paper-based medical records may spread the pathogen.
病人可能有多种并发症，可以和其他医院专家远程联网会诊，提高救治效果。
Patients may have a variety of complications, and other hospital experts can be remote networking consultations to improve the effectiveness of treatment.
取消院内探视，改用远程影像系统。
Cancellation of in-house visits in favour of remote video systems.
这些在小汤山医院就已经部分采用了。
These have already been partially used in Xiaotangshan Hospital.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉再造“小汤山”，当年的设计师叮嘱“保证安全是首位”。
Wuhan re-create "Xiaotangshan," the designers of that year told "to ensure safety is the first priority."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉再造“小汤山”，当年的设计师叮嘱“保证安全是首位”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
