美加澳印包机撤回邮轮上隔离国民，14名美国人登机途中收到确诊通知。
Canada, Canada and India charter flights withdrew the quarantine nationals on the ship, 14 Americans on the way to receive a diagnosis notice.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
“钻石公主号”。
The Princess of Diamonds.
图片来源：推特记者：刘芳“ 福西在CBS节目《Face The Nation》上表示：“这艘游轮就像个病毒热点（Hot Spot）一样，传染力实在太强了。
Source: Twitter: Liu Fang, "Fossey told CBS's Face The Nation," the cruise ship is like a hot spot for viruses.
””在日本横滨大黑码头被困近两周后，“钻石公主”号邮轮上的上千外国公民正被陆续撤离。
"Nearly two weeks after being stranded at Yokohama, Japan's Great Black Wharf, thousands of foreign citizens aboard the MV Princess Diamond are being evacuated.
面对新冠肺炎带来的挑战，美国国务卿蓬佩奥周一（2月17日）表示，将不惜一切代价降低新冠肺炎对公众带来的风险。
US Secretary of State Pompeii said Monday that he would do whatever it took to reduce the risk to the public from pneumonia.
2月17日凌晨，尾号为N716CK和N710CK的两架美国包机分别于4点56分和2点28成功降落美国本土。
In the early hours of 17 February, two United States charters, tail numbers N716CK and N710CK, successfully landed on the United States mainland at 4.56 and 2.28, respectively.
在这两架747专机上载有300余名自愿从“钻石公主”号撤离的美国乘客和他们的家人。
The 747 carried more than 300 American passengers and their families who volunteered to leave the vessel.
正如美国防部早前透露的那样，他们将被在加州的特拉维斯空军基地（Travis Air Force Base）和德州的拉克兰空军基地（Lackland Air Force Base）进行为期14天的强制隔离。
As the US Department of Defense revealed earlier, they will be held in mandatory isolation for 14 days at Travis Air Force Base in California and Lackland Air Force Base in Texas.
不过，回家的路并非一帆风顺。
The road home, however, has not been easy.
在东京羽田机场（Haneda Airport）登机途中，美方突然接到日方通知称，有14名已经撤离的美国公民在两天前进行的检测中被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
At Haneda Airport in Tokyo, the United States was suddenly informed by the Japanese side that 14 American citizens who had been evacuated had been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia in tests conducted two days earlier.
在这种情况下，美国国务院依然决定让这14名病例和其他乘客一起登机，并在机上将14名乘客进行隔离。
Under the circumstances, the State Department decided to allow the 14 cases to board with the other passengers and isolate the 14 passengers on board.
2月16日，从游轮上接走美国乘客的大巴。
On 16 February, a bus carrying United States passengers was picked up from the cruise ship.
来源：推特除此之外，在2月16日之前得到确诊结果的40多名美国游客也被滞留日本当地。
Source: Twitter In addition, more than 40 American tourists who were diagnosed before February 16 were detained in Japan.
美国国家过敏症与传染病研究所（NIAID）主任福西（Anthony Fauci）在接受CBS采访时表示：“他们不会去任何地方，他们将待在日本的医院里。
"They're not going anywhere, they're going to stay in hospitals in Japan," Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CBS.
” “钻石公主”号于1月20日从横滨出发，并于2月3日提前返回横滨。
"The Princess of Diamonds left Yokohama on January 20 and returned to Yokohama early on February 3.
由于一名1月25日在中国香港下船的80岁男性在2月1日被确诊，这艘邮轮在提前返回后从2月5日起进入两周隔离状态，2666名宾客和1045名船员在2月19日前不得下船。
An 80-year-old man disembarked on 25 January in Hong Kong, China, was diagnosed on 1 February, the vessel returned to quarantine for two weeks from 5 February and 2,666 guests and 1,045 crew members were prevented from disembarking by 19 February.
截至2月16日，邮轮上已检出356名确诊病例，其中至少60人为美国公民。
As at 16 February, 356 confirmed cases had been detected on board, at least 60 of whom were United States citizens.
而据日本厚生劳动省2月17日傍晚最新消息，邮轮17日新增确诊99人感染新型冠状病毒，其中70人无症状。
A new coronavirus was confirmed on February 17 in 99 people, 70 of whom were asymptomatic, the ministry said.
2月16日，在东京羽田机场负责撤离美国乘客的其中一架包机。
February 16, Tokyo Haneda airport responsible for the evacuation of United States passengers one of the charter flights.
来源：CNN对于邮轮上为何有如此多人同时感染，福西于16日在CBS节目《Face The Nation》上表示：“这艘船就像个病毒热点（Hot Spot）一样，传染力实在太强了。
www.51education.net) www.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.netwww.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net: www.51test.net
”虽然美国是首个从“钻石公主”号上撤离本国公民的国家，但很多美国乘客依然对被困经历感到愤怒。
Although the United States was the first country to evacuate its citizens from the Princess Diamond, many American passengers remain outraged by the experience.
美国乘客史密斯（Matthew Smith）在推特上写道：“美国政府想在没有检测的情况下把我们带走，和其他一群未经测试的人一起空运回美国，然后再把我们隔离两周？这有什么意义呢？”从推特上来看，史密斯选择了留下，而不是和其他人一样乘坐专机抵达空军基地继续隔离。
US passenger Matthew Smith wrote on Twitter: "What is the point of the U.S. government trying to fly us back to the United States with other untested people and then isolate us for two weeks?"
除了邮轮上的乘客以外，公共卫生专家们也对日本政府隔离整船人员的政策提出了质疑。
In addition to passengers on board, public health experts have questioned the Japanese government's policy of isolating ships.
贝勒医学院的霍特兹（Peter Hotez）说：“我不明白为什么要把乘客困在船上，我认为（他们）采用了14世纪的方法和道德规范来治疗传染病患者。
Peter Hotez of Baylor College of Medicine said: "I don't understand why passengers are stuck on ships, and I think [they] have adopted 14th century methods and ethics to treat patients with infectious diseases.
”继美国乘客顺利撤离之后，加拿大、澳大利亚和印度也相继决定派专机从“钻石公主”号上撤离本国公民。
Following the successful departure of American passengers, Canada, Australia and India have decided to send special planes to evacuate their citizens from the Princess Diamond.
被困“钻石公主号”上的澳大利亚公民Aun Na Tan一家。
The Aun Na Tan family of Australian citizens trapped on board the Princess Diamond.
来源：SBS澳大利亚总理莫里森宣布将派澳航（Quantas）把船上200余名澳大利亚公民撤离到达尔文，并在那里进行14天的强制隔离。
Source: SBS Australian Prime Minister David Morrison has announced that Qantas will evacuate more than 200 Australian citizens from the ship to Darwin, where they will be held in forced isolation for 14 days.
莫里森说：“现在我明白，船上的人和他们的家人都感到非常沮丧。
"Now I understand that the people on board and their families are very upset," Morrison said.
”但他同时强调，保护澳大利亚本土公民的健康和安全是头等大事。
But he also stressed that protecting the health and safety of Australian citizens was a top priority.
据悉，澳大利亚国家安全委员会是在听取了首席卫生官墨菲（Brendan Murphy）教授的建议后才决定向船上的人提供援助的。
Australia's National Security Council is understood to have heard the advice of Chief Health Officer Brendan Murphy before deciding to provide assistance to the people on board.
截至16日，邮轮上共有24名澳大利亚公民被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Up to 16, a total of 24 Australian citizens were confirmed to have contracted pneumonia.
16日，加拿大外交部长商鹏飞（Francois-Philippe Chample）在一份声明中表示：“鉴于‘钻石公主’号上加拿大公民面临的特殊情况，我们正采取行动将加拿大人从日本撤离回，同时确保采取适当措施防止和限制新型冠状病毒的传播。
"Given the special circumstances facing Canadian citizens on board the Princess Diamond, we are taking action to evacuate Canadians back from Japan, while ensuring that appropriate measures are taken to prevent and limit the spread of the new coronavirus," said Francois-Philippe Chample, Canada's foreign minister, in a statement.
”与美国和澳大利亚的政策相同，那些已经被确诊感染新冠肺炎或在登机筛查时表现出新冠肺炎症状的加拿大乘客将在日本接受治疗。
As is the policy in the US and Australia, Canadian passengers who have been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia or who show signs of new crown pneumonia at the time of boarding the screening will be treated in Japan.
美国国家过敏症与传染病研究所（NIAID）公布的扫描电子显微镜下细胞（粉色、蓝色） 和新冠病毒（黄色）图像。
The National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) publishes scanning electron microscopy images of cells (pink, blue) and new canopy viruses (yellow).
来源：NIAID在病毒研究方面，美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）下属的国家过敏症与传染病研究所（NIAID）于13日公布了新型冠状病毒的电镜图像。
Source: NIAID in virus research, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) released electronic microscopic images of the new coronavirus on the 13th.
NIAID称，冠状病毒在电子显微镜下呈球状或椭圆形，病毒上有规则排列的突起，形似皇冠而得名冠状病毒。
NIAID said the coronavirus was spherical or elliptic under an electron microscope, with a regularly arranged protuberance on the virus that resembled a coronavirus.
病毒名称 Corona 则出自拉丁语，意为“王冠”。
The name Corona comes from Latin and means "crown."
虽然新型冠状病毒的图像愈发清晰，但到目前为止美国科学家均认为他们对这个病毒的特性所知甚少。
Although the images of the new coronavirus have become clearer, so far American scientists have said they know little about the virus's properties.
NIAID主任福西在16日的采访中表示，就流感病毒的周期性来看，认为天气转暖会有使疫情逐渐缓解是非常合理的推测。
NIAID director NIAID Fauci said in an interview on the 16th, the influenza virus cyclical, think that the weather warming will gradually ease the epidemic is a very reasonable speculation.
但是福西认为，目前科学家们对新型冠状病毒之后的发展趋势仍一无所知。
But Fauci said scientists are still unaware of the future of the coronavirus.
福西还强调，在一年内成功研发和生产新冠肺炎的疫苗已经是最短的时间，不能再短了。
Fauci also stressed that the successful development and production of a vaccine for new crown pneumonia within a year was the shortest time, and could not be shorter.
如果声称可以在更短的时间研发和生产疫苗的话就有偷工减料和走捷径的嫌疑。
To claim that a vaccine can be developed and produced in a much shorter period of time is to cut corners and cut corners.
对于新冠肺炎带来的公共安全风险挑战，美国务卿蓬佩奥在周日的记者会上表示：“我认为我们都需要意识到新型冠状病毒威胁的严重性。
"I think we all need to be aware of the seriousness of the new coronavirus threat," US Secretary of State Pompeii said at a press conference on Sunday.
”他同时强调，美国将“不惜一切代价”降低新冠肺炎对公众带来的风险。
He also stressed that the United States would "do whatever it takes" to reduce the risk of pneumonia in the public domain.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美加澳印包机撤回邮轮上隔离国民，14名美国人登机途中收到确诊通知。
Canada, Canada and India charter flights withdrew the quarantine nationals on the ship, 14 Americans on the way to receive a diagnosis notice.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美加澳印包机撤回邮轮上隔离国民，14名美国人登机途中收到确诊通知";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Canada & amp; Canada's Indian charter flight withdrew the quarantine of its nationals and that 14 Americans received a notification of diagnosis at & quot;; while boarding.
var msg_desc = "福西在CBS节目《Face The Nation》上表示：“这艘游轮就像个病毒热点（Hot Spot）一样，传染力实在太强了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Fossey says in CBS's Face The Nation: "The cruise ship is as contagious as a hot spot.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
