27城数据告诉你，复工第一周多少人在坐地铁。
Twenty-seven city figures tell you how many people were on the subway during the first week of work.
唐俊。
Tang Jun.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
地铁北京南站，拍摄：蔡星卓记者：唐俊“ 绝大部分城市地铁客流不足去年同期10%。
Beijing subway station, shooting: Cai Xingzhao reporter: Tang Jun "Most of the urban subway passenger flow is less than 10% last year.
”受疫情影响，今年春运没有返程高峰。
Affected by the outbreak, there was no return rush this spring.
从1月29日开始，全国铁路、民航、公路客流同比降幅一直超过80%。
Since January 29, rail, civil aviation and road traffic nationwide have fallen by more than 80 percent year on year.
虽然政策已经允许复工，但实际上仍有大量上班族未返回工作地。
Although the policy has allowed workers to return to work, in practice a large number of workers have not returned to work.
2月10日是绝大部分省份规定的复工日期。
10 February is the date set for the resumption of work in the vast majority of provinces.
刚刚过去的一周是复工后的第一周，地铁客流数据间接反映了各个城市的复工情况。
In the week just past, the first week after the resumption of work, subway traffic figures indirectly reflect the resumption of work in various cities.
由于大量农民工和学生还未返程，已经返回城市工作的上班族，大部分也采取了在家办公的模式，加上市民出行尽量避开人群聚集的公共交通，导致地铁客流并未因复工而大涨，仍旧低于平日客流。
As a large number of migrant workers and students have not yet returned to work, the majority of workers who have returned to the cities to work have also adopted the home-based mode of work. Coupled with citizens travelling to avoid mass public transport, subway traffic has not increased as a result of the resumption of work and remains below normal passenger flow.
目前中国内地开通地铁的城市中，武汉、徐州、乌鲁木齐、呼和浩特、温州五城地铁处于暂停状态，无客流产生。
At present, Wuhan, Xuzhou, Urumqi, Huhhot and Wenzhou Metro are in a state of temporary suspension, with no passenger flow.
此前暂停的宁波地铁于2月15日刚恢复运营。
The previously suspended Ningbo subway system only resumed operations on February 15.
此外，部分城市地铁未完全开放，如有4条地铁线的昆明仅保留了1、2号线及支线7个站点的运营，长春地铁的1、2号线仍暂停运营，这也导致地铁整体客流处于低位。
In addition, some city subways are not fully open. Kunming, which has four metro lines, retains only 7 stations on Line 1, 2 and Spur Line, while Line 1 and 2 of Changchun Subway is still suspended, resulting in low overall subway passenger flow.
据博主@地铁客流及运输研究阿牛统计，复工第一周，地铁处于运营状态的城市中，大部分城市日均客流在10万人次以下，只有广州、上海、北京、深圳、成都、南京、重庆、西安8个城市超过10万。
According to Boss @ Metro Passenger Flow and Transportation Research, in the first week of operation, most cities have an average daily passenger flow of less than 100,000, with only eight cities, namely Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Nanjing, Chongqing and Xi'an, exceeding 100,000.
而在日常状态下，地铁日均客流超百万的城市就有十多个。
Under normal conditions, there are more than a dozen metro cities with an average daily passenger flow of more than one million.
界面新闻记者将2020年春节后复工第一周工作日（2月10日-14日）的地铁客流，与2019年春节后复工第一周工作日（正月初七至十一，即2019年2月11日-15日）客流对比发现，今年复工后的客流远远低于去年同期客流。
Interface journalists compare the passenger flow on the subway during the first week of work (10-14 February) after the Spring Festival 2020 and the first week after 2019 (7-11 January 2019, i.e. 11-15 February 2019), the passenger flow after the resumption of work this year is far lower than the same period last year.
日均客流最高的上海只有120.68万人次，相当于去年同期客流的12.7%。
The city had the highest average daily passenger flow of 1.206.8 million, or 12.7 percent of the same period last year.
而去年同期客流排在第一名的北京，今年复工第一周的客流排第三位，北京到办公室上班的人群数量低于上海和广州。
Passenger traffic was third in the first week after returning to work in Beijing, the top city in the same period last year, with fewer people coming to work in offices than in Shanghai and Guangzhou.
目前北京和上海的小区实施封闭式管理，同时返回北京的人群必须居家自我隔离14天，这些因素影响两地地铁客流短期内仍不会大幅上涨。
The closed management of neighborhoods in Beijing and Shanghai and the fact that people returning to Beijing must remain isolated for up to 14 days will not affect the flow of commuters between the two cities in the short term.
深圳和成都复工第一周日均客流超过了30万，但也只占去年同期不到10%；南京、重庆、西安约占去年同期客流的5%。
Shenzhen and Chengdu returned to work in the first week with an average daily passenger flow of more than 300,000, but less than 10% in the same period last year.
从一周整体来看，周一的客流最高，周六和周日有明显下滑，这与平时的客流特征类似。
Monday was the best overall week, with sharp declines on Saturdays and Sundays, similar to the usual flow pattern.
广州地铁在复工第一周的周末，仍然像平日一样，客流反超上海。
Guangzhou Metro in the first week of the weekend, still as usual, traffic overtook Shanghai.
其他复工第一周日均客流在10万以下的城市中（济南、无锡、兰州、贵阳暂缺数据），有7个城市客流在5万以上，7个城市客流在1万以下。
Other cities with an average daily passenger flow of less than 100,000 in the first week of resumption (Jinan, Wuxi, Lanzhou, Guiyang are temporarily unavailable), there are more than 50,000 passenger flows in seven cities and less than 10,000 in seven cities.
除厦门、大连等城市之外，绝大部分城市的客流不足去年同期10%，部分城市甚至不足5%。
Except for Xiamen and Dalian, passenger flow in most cities was less than 10 percent in the same period last year, and in some cities it was less than 5 percent.
目前各个城市地铁均推出了相应的防疫措施，除了消毒、测温、通风、加大发车频率等常见措施，西安、深圳等城市还实行实名制乘车，杭州地铁则要求乘客乘车前出示由市政府发放的电子健康码。
In addition to common measures such as disinfection, temperature measurement, ventilation and frequency of transmission, Xi'an and Shenzhen have also adopted a real-name system, and Hangzhou Metro requires passengers to show their e-health codes issued by the municipal government before taking the bus.
27城地铁客流数据表明，全国仍未大范围复工，即使复工也是采取远程办公的形式，而非到办公室上班。
Figures on metro traffic in 27 cities show that work has not resumed on a large scale across the country, even when it does resume in the form of telecommuting rather than going to the office.
城市公共交通近期客流会继续低位运行。
Urban public transport will remain low in the near future.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
27城数据告诉你，复工第一周多少人在坐地铁。
Twenty-seven city figures tell you how many people were on the subway during the first week of work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "27城数据告诉你，复工第一周多少人在坐地铁";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; 27 city figures tell you how many people were at RRT & quot; in the first week of restarting work.
var msg_desc = "绝大部分城市地铁客流不足去年同期10%。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the vast majority of urban metro traffic was less than 10% last year.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
