武汉医用氧气为何紧缺？当地最大供应商作出回应。
Wuhan medical oxygen shortage? The largest local supplier to respond.
庄键。
Zhuang keys.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：庄键“ 武钢集团气体公司解释称，导致医用氧气供应紧张的根源，主要在于医院的硬件。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "The source of the strain on medical oxygen supply lies mainly in the hospital's hardware," Wu Gang, a gas company, explains.
”针对武汉医用氧气供应不足的问题，当地最大医用氧气生产商作出了公开回应。
Wuhan, the largest medical oxygen producer, responded publicly to the shortage of oxygen for medical use in the city.
武汉全市一半以上的医院医用氧气，由武钢集团气体公司（下称武钢气体）提供，武钢气体是武汉钢铁有限公司（下称武钢有限）下属企业。
Wuhan city more than half of the hospital medical oxygen, by Wugang Group Gas Company (hereinafter referred to as Wugang gas), Wuhan Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. (Wuhan Iron and Steel Co., Ltd.) subordinate enterprises.
日前，武钢有限通过官方微信发文称，只要医院的供氧系统能力跟得上，武钢气体随时可以提供足量的医用氧气供病人使用，氧气产能及运力完全能满足需求。
Recently, Wu Gang limited through the official letter said that as long as the hospital's oxygen supply system capacity up to date, Wuhan Iron and Steel gas can provide sufficient medical oxygen for patients to use, oxygen capacity and capacity can fully meet the demand.
武钢气体称，其目前每天可生产约200立方米液态医用氧，制氧能力可达需求量的三倍。
WISCO says it currently produces about 200 cubic meters of liquid medical oxygen a day, three times its capacity to produce oxygen.
武汉医用氧气紧缺的问题，早前由武汉市肺科医院院长彭鹏对外披露。
Wuhan medical oxygen shortage, earlier by Wuhan City lung hospital director Peng Peng external disclosure.
2月7日，他在新闻发布会上称，除人员和防护用品紧张外，氧气供应也是当前新冠肺炎医疗救治工作中的一个突出问题。
On 7 February, he stated at a press conference that, in addition to the shortage of personnel and protective equipment, the oxygen supply was also a prominent issue in the current medical treatment of pneumonia in the New Crown.
新冠肺炎的重症及危重患者都需要吸氧。
Severe and critical patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia need oxygen.
彭鹏称，其所在医院的氧气用量已达到日常峰值的10倍以上，氧气供应无法再继续增加。
Peng said the amount of oxygen used in his hospital had reached more than 10 times its daily peak and the oxygen supply could not continue to increase.
此后，多家媒体陆续跟进报道了武汉医用氧气不足、氧气钢瓶短缺等情况。
Since then, a number of media follow-up reports Wuhan medical oxygen shortage, oxygen cylinder shortage and so on.
对于这一问题，武钢气体解释称，导致医用氧气供应紧张的根源，主要在于医院的硬件层面。
To this problem, Wu Gang gas explains, cause the source that medical oxygen supply is tight, basically lie in the hardware level of hospital.
武钢气体指出了多项具体原因，比如武汉大部分医院供氧装备的能力，小于住院部病员满额情况下的氧气需求量。
Wu Gang gas pointed out a number of specific reasons, such as Wuhan most hospitals oxygen supply equipment capacity, less than in-patient full oxygen demand.
特别是采用汽化器的供氧装备，其汽化器的设计汽化量偏小，一旦在夜晚凌晨使用，武汉市环境温度显著下降至零度左右，汽化器表面结霜工作能力降低，随之出现管道压力缓慢下降供需紧张的局面。
Especially with the oxygen supply equipment of carburetor, the design vaporization of the carburetor is small. Once used in the early hours of night, the ambient temperature of Wuhan city drops to around zero, the surface frost working ability of the carburetor is reduced, and the pressure of the pipeline slowly decreases the supply and demand.
同时，大部分医院供氧装备的出口主管流量有限，无法满足新冠疫情下病人大流量吸氧的要求。
At the same time, most hospitals have a limited flow of oxygen supply equipment export managers, unable to meet the requirements of patients under the new crown oxygen absorption requirements.
武钢气体还指出，在应急状态下，部分医院的操作维护人员对相应的调压装置也缺乏必要调节技能。
WISCO gas also pointed out that under the emergency, some hospital operation and maintenance personnel to the corresponding pressure regulator also lack the necessary adjustment skills.
此外，部分医院的ICU病房位于住院大楼的高层，或急需安排救治的重症病人、疫区位于整个供氧管系的末端，尽管采取现有手段可以提高主管压力，但对位于管系末端的用氧需求还是改善不明显。
In addition, the ICU wards in some hospitals are located on the upper floors of the inpatient buildings or in the most urgent need of treatment. The affected areas are located at the end of the oxygen supply system. Although the available means can improve the pressure of the supervisor, the demand for oxygen at the end of the system is not obvious.
“任何一家医院在进行医院设计的时候，都不可能按照我们现在这种极端情况来进行氧气的设计。
"When any hospital is being designed, it's impossible to design oxygen in the extreme way we do.
”彭鹏也曾表示。
Peng Peng has also said.
针对现状，武钢气体称，相关医用氧供应商已援助各家医院，帮助制定了各种应急方案并组织实施，基本保证了医院对医用氧气的需求。
As for the current situation, WISCO said the relevant medical oxygen suppliers have assisted various hospitals, helped to formulate and implement various emergency plans, and basically ensured the hospital's demand for medical oxygen.
武钢中冶气体事业部（武钢中冶）也相应增加了氧气钢瓶的储备，该公司为武钢气体提供配套的危化品运输服务。
WISCO Zhongye Gas Division (WISCO Zhongye) has increased the reserve of oxygen cylinders correspondingly.
疫情发生后，武钢中冶先行购置了1600只医用氧气钢瓶。
After the outbreak, Wugang Zhongye first bought 1600 medical oxygen cylinders.
2月16日，新采购的5000只钢瓶也全部到货，可以缓解氧气钢瓶周转困难的问题，改变瓶装医用氧气紧张局的局面。
New purchases of 5,000 cylinders were also fully delivered on 16 February, relieving problems of oxygen cylinder turnover and changing the oxygen stress situation for bottled medical supplies.
武钢气体也指出，瓶装医用氧气需在充装、运输、使用、回收、消毒等多个环节流转，导致周转效率较低。
Wu Gang gas also pointed out that bottled medical oxygen needs to fill, transport, use, recycling, disinfection and other links circulation, resulting in low turnover efficiency.
在疫情防控期间，瓶装医用氧气在运输车辆、搬运人员等方面也面临诸多困难，需要主管部门统一协调。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, bottled medical oxygen also faces many difficulties in transporting vehicles and personnel, which need to be coordinated by competent departments.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉医用氧气为何紧缺？当地最大供应商作出回应。
Wuhan medical oxygen shortage? The largest local supplier to respond.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉医用氧气为何紧缺？当地最大供应商作出回应";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why is Wuhan so short of medical oxygen? & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by the largest local supplier.
var msg_desc = "武钢集团气体公司解释称，导致医用氧气供应紧张的根源，主要在于医院的硬件。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan Iron & Steel Group, a gas company, explains that the main cause of the strain on medical oxygen supply was hospital hardware.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
