新冠肺炎轻症患者：住院13天，我是如何治愈出院的？。
New Crown Pneumonia light patient: Is hospitalized 13 days, how do I cure discharge?
佘晓晨。
She Xiaochen.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国实习记者：佘晓晨“ 在分享自己用药过程的同时，她一再强调每个人情况都不一样，但心态一定要好——要安心吃药、按时吃药，不要自己吓自己，相信自己会好的。
Photo: Visual China Intern: She Xiaochen: "While sharing her medication, she repeatedly stressed that everyone is in a different situation, but must be in a good mood - take medicine in peace, take medicine on time, and don't frighten yourself into believing you'll be all right.
”作为一个新冠肺炎轻症患者，林琪经历了13天难熬的等待和治疗期，成功治愈回家。
As a mild case of New Crown Pneumonia, Lingqi, after 13 days of grueling waiting and treatment, managed to heal her home.
出院之后，林琪在家进行单间隔离。
After she was discharged from the hospital, Lingqi isolated herself in a private room.
她和网友分享了自己治疗的过程，希望可以帮到更多人。
She and netizens shared their treatment process, hope to help more people.
在分享自己用药过程的同时，她一再强调每个人情况都不一样，但心态一定要好——要安心吃药、按时吃药，不要自己吓自己，相信自己会好的。
As she shared her medication, she repeatedly stressed that everyone was in a different situation, but it was important to feel at ease taking the medicine, taking it on time, and not scaring yourself into believing that you would be all right.
出院那天，她在微博上说，“希望我的国家，我的城市，像我一样好起来。
On the day of her discharge, she said on her microblog, "I hope my country, my city, is as good as I am.
”以下是她的口述：我从事医疗器械行业，家住在黄石。
"The following is her dictation:" I am in the medical equipment business and live in Yellowstone.
这次感染最终治愈回家后，我一直在回忆自己的经历。
When the infection finally healed and I went home, I was thinking about my experience.
很多网友来问我具体的治疗过程、用了什么药物之类的，我和大家分享了不少内容，还拍了视频给大家看，恢复的状态还是挺好的。
Many netizens came to me to ask me the specific treatment process, what drugs and so on, I shared with you a lot of content, but also took a video to show you, the state of recovery is very good.
早在1月27号，我量体温发现有37.5度。
As early as January 27th, I took my temperature and found it was 37.5 degrees.
在这之前，好几天都是咳嗽，干咳，不过精神状况和胃口都还可以。
Until then, there had been coughs and dry coughs for several days, but the mental state and appetite were good.
当时如果不是看到发生疫情的消息，我可能还会挺一挺，因为我本身也不严重，没有特别的身体反应，后来还是觉得有必要去医院检查确认下，因为我老公是1月22号晚上从武汉回来的，虽然到目前为止他都没有被感染的症状。
Had it not been for the news of the outbreak, I would have survived because I was not serious and had no particular physical reaction, and I felt obliged to go to the hospital to check on my husband, who had returned from Wuhan on the night of January 22, although he had no symptoms of infection so far.
当天我决定一个人开车去黄石市第二医院检查，去之前没做什么准备，家里人也觉得我应该不会有什么事。
That day I decided to drive to Huangshi City Hospital No. 2 to check-up, before doing little preparation, the family also thought I should be nothing.
结果到了医院检查完之后，医生告诉我双肺有感染，问了基本情况，然后建议住院隔离观察。
As a result, after the hospital check-up, the doctor told me that there was an infection in both lungs, asked the basic questions, and recommended hospitalization for isolation.
这一待，就是十几天。
This is ten days.
之后等待确诊的过程是最难熬的。
The process of waiting for a diagnosis is the hardest.
1月28号，我住进了单间隔离病房。
On January 28th, I was admitted to a private isolation ward.
第一次住院就“享受”单人间，我只能苦笑，实际上，那天晚上我就开始焦躁了，女儿才四岁半，如果真的确诊了，我特别担心自己传染给她，也特别想念她。
The first time I was hospitalized, I had to smile bitterly. In fact, that night I began to fret. My daughter was only four and a half years old.
在医院待着的前两天一直没有治疗，感觉咳嗽越来越严重了。
I didn't get any treatment for the first two days in the hospital and I felt a cough getting worse.
直到1月29号，住院的第三天，早上五点多护士全副武装进来，给我抽血。
On the third day of hospitalization, on January 29th, more than five o'clock in the morning nurses came armed and gave me blood.
当时看了一眼手机，老公发来消息，说他和女儿都醒了，让我接着睡，后来老爸又打来电话说要给我送东西，被我拒绝了。
When I looked at the phone, my husband sent me a message that he and his daughter had woken up and asked me to go back to bed.
老年人本身就易感，我真的不想让他到医院来。
The old man himself is susceptible and I really don't want him to come to the hospital.
当天上午，社区和疾控中心的人一直给我打电话，询问发病情况和接触史等。
That morning, the community and CDC people kept calling me to ask about the disease and contact history.
等到中午，护士就来通知，过一会儿要转院。
When noon, the nurse came to announce the transfer.
我问她是不是确诊了，她说还要等医生来通知。
I asked her if she was diagnosed, and she said she would have to wait until the doctor told me.
那种情况下，我很焦虑，特别想知道结果。
In that case, I was anxious, and I wanted to know the result.
一直等到下午两点多，医生才通知我，确定被感染了，要转院到黄石市中医医院（市传染病医院）。
It was not until two o'clock in the afternoon that the doctor informed me that he was infected and wanted to be transferred to the Huangshi Chinese Medical Hospital.
我们一行7个轻症患者，一起坐救护车前往中医医院。
We took an ambulance to the TCM hospital with a group of seven light patients.
我记得当时的气氛是，大家都有些焦躁，其中三个人是一家人，一直在说特别后悔之前去拜年，说不定把别人也给害了。
I remember the atmosphere was a little bit restless, and three of them were family members who had been saying they were sorry to have visited the New Year before they could have done harm to others.
到了医院真正安顿下来之后，因为已经接受了这件事，我的心态反而比较好了。
After the hospital really settled down, because I have accepted this matter, my mentality is better.
我老公开始不相信，有点接受不了，但等我真的去了医院，他又开始鼓励我，跟我说“相信你会没事的。
My husband didn't believe it at first, but when I did go to the hospital, he encouraged me and said, "I'm sure you'll be all right.
”我和我老公在一起十一年了，结婚有五六年，感情其实已经归于平淡。
"My husband and I have been together eleven years, married for five or six years, but the relationship was flat.
出院以后，他告诉我，其实当时他非常着急，不知道我在医院到底是什么情况。
After I left the hospital, he told me that he was in a great hurry and didn't know what I was at the hospital.
他说，第一次意识到，我在他身边比什么都重要。
'For the first time I realized I was more important to him than anything else, 'he says.
我想过要不要把感染的消息发出来，最后还是决定不隐瞒。
I thought about whether to send the news of the infection, but finally decided not to hide it.
那段时间里，我一直发微博更新情况，因为心情很焦急，又不想在朋友圈说，微博算是一个小窗口。
During that time, I kept tweeting up because I was anxious and didn't want to say in my friends' circles that Weibo was a small window.
被网友关注到之后，很多人都挺关心我，我就第一时间在微博上说了确诊的结果。
After being paid attention to by the netizens, many people are quite concerned about me, I said the first time on the microblog said the diagnosis of the results.
之后的几个小时里，我一直在网上交流情况，好多人都鼓励我坚强，让我加油，最后有100个人留言鼓励，让我很感动。
Over the next few hours, I have been exchanging information on the Internet, a lot of people encouraged me to be strong, let me refuel, finally there are 100 messages to encourage, let me very moved.
住院期间，我每天都和女儿视频，一开始她都会问妈妈去哪儿了。
During my stay in hospital, I watched a video with my daughter every day, and at first she would ask where my mother had gone.
她才四岁半，不知道“病毒”是什么，出院回家之后跟她说这些，她还是一副很懵懂的样子，只是问为什么不能去上学。
She was four-and-a-half years old and didn't know what the virus was. When she came home from the hospital and told her about it, she still looked puzzled and asked why she couldn't go to school.
我妈妈没跟我们住一起，她是最紧张的人。
My mother doesn't live with us. She's the most nervous person.
在我住院的那几天，为了不影响我休息和治疗，她不敢给我打电话，但每天甚至打十几个电话去家里问我的情况。
During the few days I was in hospital, she didn't dare to call me in order not to interfere with my rest and treatment, but she even made a dozen phone calls a day to ask me how I was doing.
我每天按医生说的按时吃药，按时吃饭，多喝水，基本上没有想其他的，因为好多人比我严重，我觉得自己应该也不会怎样。
I take medicine on time, eat regularly, drink more water, and think little of anything else, because so many people are more serious than I am.
同病房的一个病友来的时候病情最重，发烧都是高达40度，但在医生的救治下比我还先出院。
One of my roommates arrived with the worst illness, with a fever of up to 40 degrees, but was discharged before I was treated by a doctor.
所以我在微博上说，不要觉得发烧就是更严重了，这是有一个过程的，你只需要安心吃药、按时吃药，不要自己吓自己，相信自己会好的。
So I said on Weibo, don't feel feverish is more serious, this is a process, you just need to calm down to take medicine, take medicine on time, do not frighten yourself, believe that they will be fine.
我们病房里都是轻症患者，相互打气鼓励比较多，因为都是年轻人，大部分时候是各自休息，到了饭点就会讨论哪个菜最好吃，劝挑食的病友多吃点。
Our ward is full of mild cases, encouraging each other to encourage more, because it is young people, most of the time is a break, when dinner will discuss which food is the best, advise picky sick friends to eat more.
旁边的姑娘隔几个小时就要跟她老公视频，大家还会开玩笑。
Next to the girl every few hours with her husband video, everyone will joke.
不过，2月4号早上有个患者去了ICU，医生在微信群里说要和家属交代一下病情，做好心理准备。
However, on the morning of February 4, a patient went to ICU, and the doctor told his family that he wanted to talk to his family and be prepared.
进医院这么长时间以来，这是我第一次听说有病人快不行了，当时就感觉，你永远不知道，明天和意外哪一个先来。
It's the first time I've heard of a patient dying in the hospital for so long that you never know which comes first, tomorrow or the accident.
其实真正成了患者，才知道医护人员有多辛苦，跟看新闻的那种感动不一样。
Actually became the patient, only then knew the medical staff how laborious, with sees the news that kind of moving not the same.
患者每天还能躺在床上休息，但是医生护士不能休息，每天都要陪着我们，还要打针、发药、发饭。
Patients can also lie in bed every day to rest, but doctors and nurses can not rest, every day to accompany us, but also injection, hair medicine, rice.
我印象最深的是，有一次一个医生瘸着腿来查房，还要安慰病人。
What impressed me most was that once a doctor came limping to look into the room and comforting the sick.
我问他怎么了，他跟我说腿太疼了。
I asked him what was the matter. He told me that his legs hurt too much.
一开始住进医院我每天都刷新闻，确诊之前，还联系同学找到了100个口罩捐给武汉红十字会。
At the beginning of the hospital I brush the news every day, before the diagnosis, but also contact students to find 100 masks donated to the Wuhan Red Cross.
读书的时候我在武汉待了很久，对这座城市也有感情，看到疫情的新闻会觉得很沉重，所以后来就基本上不看了，尽量让自己看点别的，放松一些。
I spent a long time in Wuhan when I was studying, and I have feelings for this city. I would feel heavy to see the news of the epidemic.
2月6号，医生给我开了核酸检测。
On February 6, my doctor gave me a nucleic acid test.
第一次结果是阴性。
The first result was negative.
7号又做了第二次检测，两次诊断结果都为阴性。
No.7 underwent a second test and both diagnoses were negative.
到了8号早上，做完CT后，医生通知我，可以出院了。
On the morning of the 8th, after the CT scan, the doctor informed me that I could be discharged from the hospital.
终于可以回家了。
At last I can go home.
当初一起转院的那个女孩很为我开心，但看到我可以出院了她又很紧张，因为她的症状也很轻，也检测了两次，结果第一次阴性，第二次又阳性了，医生说还要再继续治疗。
The girl who was transferred to the hospital together was very happy for me, but she was nervous to see that I could be discharged from the hospital. She also had mild symptoms, tested twice, tested negative for the first time and positive for the second time.
我们没有加微信，出院之后我也退出了病房的群，希望她现在也出院了。
We did not send a letter, I left the hospital ward after the group, hope she is now discharged from hospital.
出院之后，我妈立刻给我打来了电话，她一下子就哭了，说从来没这么担心和难受过。
After I left the hospital, my mother called me right away and she cried, saying she had never been so worried or miserable.
我又在微博上发了自己出院的消息，当时我写道，真心希望我的国家，我的城市像我一样好起来。
I posted the news of my discharge from the hospital on Weibo, when I wrote that I sincerely hope my country, my city, is as good as I am.
为什么全家只有我感染了？后期我们仔细回想了一下，老公开车从武汉回来之后，我们曾和女儿一起去过超市买东西，三个人都戴了口罩，但是中途我的口罩有点问题，就取下来了一会儿，之后再没出过门。
When my husband drove back from Wuhan, we went to the supermarket with our daughter to do some shopping. All three of us wore masks. But I had a problem with my mask and took it down for a while.
所以，我是不是在超市里被传染了？现在也说不好，这只是猜想。
So, am I infected in the supermarket? I can't say right now. It's just a guess.
有个事值得说一说。
There is one thing worth saying.
回家之后有物业的人来封门，我老公和他们起了一些争执，家里人心情本来就很焦灼，物业态度很强硬，也不敲门，说话很霸道。
My husband and I had some argument. The family was anxious, the property had a very strong attitude and didn't knock on the door.
最主要的是，封门之前没有人通知我们。
Most of all, we were not notified before the door was closed.
家人从我确诊到出院就没出去过，2月10号说解除隔离了，老公出去买了一次菜，然后突然又来封门，我们也没提前做准备，所以有点让人接受不了。
My family hasn't been out since I was diagnosed, February 10 said the isolation, my husband went out to buy a dish, and then suddenly sealed the door, we did not prepare in advance, so it is a bit unacceptable.
第一次争执之后，第二次物业的人又半夜两三点偷偷来封门。
After the first quarrel, the second-time occupant sneaked in at two or three in the middle of the night.
我们跟社区反映了问题，社区的工作人员态度还是挺好的。
We talked to the community, and the attitude of the people in the community was good.
2月12日早上，公安局的人来敲门，跟我们说要封门，整个过程比较温和，处理的挺好，我们也愿意配合。
On the morning of February 12, the police knocked on the door and told us to seal it. The whole process was mild and well handled, and we were willing to cooperate.
我觉得，双方都要互相理解，但封门的事情还是派一些基层工作比较熟练的社区人员去做比较好，避免争执。
I think both sides need to understand each other, but it's better to have people at the grass-roots level who are better able to do it and avoid arguments.
当然这只是个人建议，等我隔离结束了，我也想去做志愿者，尽自己的一份力。
Of course it was a personal suggestion, and when my isolation was over, I wanted to volunteer and do my part.
之前在抖音上看到过一个广东的小伙子出院之后自愿捐血浆，如果需要，我也愿意捐出含抗体的血浆，去救助那些生病的患者。
I had seen a young man in Guangdong voluntarily donate blood plasma after he was discharged from the hospital. I would also donate plasma containing antibodies if needed to help those who were ill.
我真的希望疫情快点过去，大家都平平安安，所有的医务人员和基层工作人员都能安全回家团聚。
I really hope that the epidemic will soon be over, that everyone will be safe and that all medical staff and grass-roots staff will be able to return home safely.
经历这次患病 ，我和老公都觉得自己很幸运。
After the illness, my husband and I both felt lucky.
对我自己来说，最大的变化就是真正意识到了健康第一，以前我完全不克制自己熬夜，看到好看的书无论多晚都要看完。
For myself, the biggest change was a real awareness of health first. I had no control over staying up until I saw a good book, no matter how late it was.
不过现在是逼着自己早点睡觉，睡不着就躺着，一定要把作息规律调整好。
But now it is forced to go to bed early, can not sleep on the bed, must adjust the regularity of work and rest.
我老公说，以前经常忙于工作，现在觉得任何东西都比不上家人在身边重要。
My husband said that I used to be so busy with my work that I don't think anything is as important as my family.
他老家在东北，今年没能回去，公公婆婆其实也一直担心我们。
His hometown in the Northeast, this year did not go back, in fact, my mother-in-law has been worried about us.
等疫情过去了，我想做的第一件事就是带上女儿，和老公一起回去看看两位老人家。
When the epidemic was over, the first thing I wanted to do was take my daughter with me and go back with my husband to see the two old people.
（应受访者要求，林琪为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, Lingqi is an alias), unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎轻症患者：住院13天，我是如何治愈出院的？。
New Crown Pneumonia light patient: Is hospitalized 13 days, how do I cure discharge?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎轻症患者：住院13天，我是如何治愈出院的？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "在分享自己用药过程的同时，她一再强调每个人情况都不一样，但心态一定要好——要安心吃药、按时吃药，不要自己吓自己，相信自己会好的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; While sharing her medication, she repeats that everyone is in a different situation, but always in a good mood - take the medicine at ease, take it on time, and don't frighten yourself into believing you'll be all right.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
