韩国疫情也“进入新局面”，文在寅：非常时期需非常之策。
The South Korean epidemic has also "entered a new phase," Wen said.
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：pexels记者：肖恩“ 韩国新增的3例病例感染路径不明。
Source: Sean. "The route of infection in three new cases in South Korea is unknown.
韩国卫生部门认为，从国内外疫情来看，新冠肺炎疫情已经进入新局面。
South Korean health authorities believe that from the domestic and international epidemic situation, the new crown pneumonia epidemic has entered a new situation.
”就在日本正为国内新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情的严峻形势忧心的同时，邻国韩国也在为抗疫和应对疫情带来的一系列影响做准备。
Just as Japan is worrying about the severity of its own new coronavirus pneumonia, neighboring South Korea is bracing itself for the epidemic and its aftermath.
韩国卫生部门表示“疫情已进入新阶段”，总统文在寅则说“非常时期需非常之策”。
South Korea's health ministry said "the epidemic has entered a new phase," while President Wen Yin Yin said "extraordinary times require extraordinary measures."
韩国中央防疫对策本部2月18日通报称，韩国新增1例新冠肺炎感染病例，累计达31例。
A total of 31 new cases of pneumonia have been reported in South Korea, the central anti-epidemic agency said on Feb. 18.
第31例患者是一名61岁的韩国女性，没有出国旅游经历，在大邱市寿城区卫生站接受检测后确诊，目前大邱医疗院接受隔离治疗，病况暂不清楚。
The 31st case is a 61-year-old Korean woman who did not travel abroad. She was diagnosed after being tested at Daegu City Health Station.
卫生防疫部门正在调查该患者的感染路径和接触者。
The health and epidemic prevention department is investigating the patient's route of infection and the contact person.
另外，16日确诊的第29例和30例患者的感染路径也在调查中。
In addition, 16 confirmed 29 cases and 30 patients infected with the route is also under investigation.
两人是一对夫妻，不曾出境旅游，也未与其他确诊患者接触，感染路径不明。
The two were a couple who had never travelled abroad, had not been in contact with other confirmed patients and had an unknown route of infection.
韩国疾病管理本部中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬18日在例行记者会上表示，目前还很难断定这3例病例是否与流行病学因素有关，但如果扩大案例定义范围，进行更多检查的话，可能会出现更多的类似患者。
Zheng Yingjing, minister of the Ministry of Disease Control of the Republic of Korea, told a regular news conference on Wednesday that it was difficult to say whether the three cases were related to epidemiological factors.
她强调，卫生部门在采取对入境者进行检疫、接触者进行自我隔离等应对方案的同时，社区要制定防控疫情扩散的对策。
She stressed that the health sector in the quarantine of the entry, contact self-isolation and other response programmes, the community should develop prevention and control of the spread of the epidemic.
郑银敬说，从国内外疫情来看，新冠肺炎疫情已经进入新局面。
'From the point of view of the epidemic at home and abroad, the outbreak of new crown pneumonia has entered a new situation, 'Mr. Cheng said.
当天上午，韩国一名30多岁的男子因疑似感染新冠肺炎去世。
A South Korean man in his 30s died of a suspected pneumonia in the morning.
据韩联社报道，这名男子的肺部被发现存在出血痕迹，并有肺炎症状。
The man's lungs were found to show signs of bleeding and pneumonia, the newspaper reported.
该男子上月曾与家人前往河南，目前有关方面正进行流行病学调查，确认该男子是否感染新冠肺炎。
The man travelled to Henan with his family last month and an epidemiological investigation is underway to find out if the man has contracted pneumonia.
此外，韩国总统专机“空军3”号已经在18日飞赴日本从爆发新冠肺炎群聚感染的“钻石公主”号邮轮撤侨，接回的4名韩国公民及1名日籍家属将再接受14天的隔离。
The Air Force 3, the South Korean presidential plane, flew to Japan yesterday to evacuate the Princess Diamond from the outbreak of pneumonia, and four South Korean citizens and a Japanese family member will be quarantined for another 14 days.
目前船上暂无韩国公民感染病例。
There are no cases of infection among Korean citizens on board.
截至目前，韩国确诊31名确诊患者中有12人治愈出院，其余患者大多病情平稳。
So far, 12 of the 31 patients diagnosed in South Korea have been cured and discharged. Most of the remaining patients are in stable condition.
除确诊患者外，有9234人接受了新冠病毒核酸检测，8277人结果呈阴性，其余957人的结果尚未出炉。
In addition to diagnosed patients, 9,234 people were tested for Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid Nucleic Acid), 8,277 tested negative, and the results for the remaining 957 are still pending.
中央防疫对策本部17日表示，韩国从18日起把新冠肺炎纳入“重症急性呼吸系统传染病监管体系”，加强防治力度，进一步掌握发病感染情况和病原体信息等。
The Central Committee for the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases (SARS) said on the 17th, the Republic of Korea has added the new crown pneumonia to the "SARS surveillance system" to strengthen prevention and control efforts, to further grasp the incidence of infection and pathogen information.
新冠肺炎同时也被列入“流感和呼吸道病毒性病原体感染症监控体系”，像季节性流感一样随时实施监控检查，该体系目前共检测8种病毒。
New Crown Pneumonia is also included in the "Influenza and Respiratory Viral Pathogen Infection Surveillance System," which carries out surveillance checks as readily as seasonal influenza, and which currently detects eight viruses.
郑银敬表示，政府将扩大新冠病毒的检测范围，构建社区和医疗机构监测体系，早期发现及时隔离患者，全力防止疫情扩散。
Mr Cheng said the government would expand testing for the new crown virus, set up a monitoring system for community and medical institutions, identify and isolate patients in time and make every effort to prevent the spread of the disease.
韩国总统文在寅18日在青瓦台主持召开国务会议时则提出，有必要将新冠肺炎疫情对经济造成冲击视为“经济非常时期”，而非常时期要有非常之策，并指示有关部门在保障国民安全、民生经济两个方面采取有效措施。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao presided over the State Council in Qingwadai on the 18th, said it is necessary to consider the economic impact of the outbreak of SARS as an "economic emergency," that extraordinary measures should be taken, and instructed relevant departments to take effective measures to ensure the security of the people and the livelihood of the people.
文在寅表示，如果中国的经济状况恶化，韩国必将首当其冲，目前与中国有关的物品供应和生产活动已经受到影响。
Wen said if China's economic situation deteriorates, South Korea will be the first to suffer, and supplies and production activities related to China are already affected.
甚至有预测认为，与此前的非典、中东呼吸综合征疫情时期相比，此次疫情给韩国带来的冲击会更大更长。
It is even predicted to hit South Korea harder and longer than it did during previous SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreaks.
文在寅还说，除了中国之外，日益恶化的日本境内疫情也是变数之一，要想尽早摆脱传染病跨境传播，邻国疫情尽早趋稳十分重要，他要求有关部门在与国际社会的合作与救援方面付出更多努力，与邻国携手共渡难关。
Wen also said that apart from China, the worsening situation in Japan is one of the variables. To get rid of the cross-border spread of infectious diseases as soon as possible, it is very important for neighboring countries to stabilize the epidemic at an early date.
从2月17日起，位于首尔的韩国最高摩天大楼、著名地标建筑乐天世界塔将为中国点亮。
South Korea's tallest skyscraper, the famed landmark Rakuten World Tower, will light up for China from Feb. 17.
每晚18至22时整点和30分，高达555米的建筑外立面会用灯光打出中英文“武汉加油”字幕，声援中国抗击新冠肺炎疫情。
From 1800 hours to 2200 hours every night, 555 meters of building facades will be lit with Chinese and English subtitles "Come on, Wuhan," in support of China's fight against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
据中国驻韩国大使馆消息，此次“灯光声援”活动将持续十天。
According to the Chinese Embassy in South Korea, the "light solidarity" campaign will last 10 days.
图片来源：中国驻韩国大使馆官网未经授权 禁止转载。
Source: The official website of Chinese Embassy in Korea is forbidden to reprint without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国疫情也“进入新局面”，文在寅：非常时期需非常之策。
The South Korean epidemic has also "entered a new phase," Wen said.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国疫情也“进入新局面”，文在寅：非常时期需非常之策";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in times of emergency.
var msg_desc = "韩国新增的3例病例感染路径不明。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the route of infection in three new cases in South Korea is unknown.
韩国卫生部门认为，从国内外疫情来看，新冠肺炎疫情已经进入新局面。
South Korean health authorities believe that from the domestic and international epidemic situation, the new crown pneumonia epidemic has entered a new situation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
