新冠肺炎超长潜伏期是否存在？。
Is there a long incubation period for new crown pneumonia?
刘世龙。
Liu Shilong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫实习记者：刘世龙“ 中国疾病预防控制中心原副主任杨功焕接受采访表示，现在没法确切地说超长潜伏期是否真的存在。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention Yang Kun-hwan, former deputy director of the center for disease control, told reporters that it was impossible to say for sure whether the incubation period really existed.
但可以确定，这种特例所占的比例并不高，民众无需过度紧张。
However, it can be ascertained that the proportion of such exceptions is not high and that the population does not have to be overly stressed.
”新冠肺炎的潜伏期究竟有多长？最近的一些案例挑战着此前关于新冠肺炎最长潜伏期为14天的判断。
How long is the incubation period for Newcrown Pneumonia? Some recent cases have challenged earlier judgments that the maximum incubation period for pneumonia is 14 days.
2020年2月17日上午，广东省河源市公布一例确诊病例，患者从武汉坐火车回河源，于2月8日解除14天医学观察，6天后开始无明显诱因出现咳嗽，并最终确诊。
On the morning of February 17, 2020, a confirmed case was reported in Heyuan City, Guangdong Province. The patient returned to Heyuan from Wuhan by train. He was released from medical observation for 14 days on February 8.
另外，山东省日照市刘某因曾接触确诊病例，于1月20日和一家四口被隔离，期间无异常，然而在隔离结束10天后，刘某开始出现咳嗽、发热等症状，于2月15日确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Liu was quarantined with a family of four in Shandong province on January 20 for having been in contact with a confirmed case. However, 10 days after the end of isolation, Liu began to develop cough, fever and other symptoms and was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 15.
在此之前，四川省宜宾市便在2月11日通报了一位新冠肺炎患者的确诊情况。
Earlier, on February 11, the city of Yibin, Sichuan Province, reported the diagnosis of a case of new crown pneumonia.
该病例从1月23号从武汉返乡，到出现轻微咳嗽症状，一共16天，而出现发热症状是在第18天。
The case returned home from Wuhan on January 23 and showed mild cough symptoms for 16 days, with fever on the 18th day.
广西省桂林市也曾在2月6日通报了一位阳姓新冠肺炎确诊病例，其潜伏期也超过了14天。
The city of Guilin in Guangxi province also reported a confirmed case of Yangxincang pneumonia on February 6, with incubation periods of more than 14 days.
关于新冠病毒的潜伏期，此前官方公布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》显示，基于目前的流行病学调查，其潜伏期为1-14天，多为3-7天。
With regard to the incubation period of the new coronavirus, the previously published "Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment of New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 5)" shows that, based on current epidemiological investigations, the incubation period is 1-14 days, mostly 3-7 days.
这也是各地要求人们隔离14天以确认是否被感染的标准。
It is also the standard around the world that requires people to be quarantined for 14 days to find out if they are infected.
国家卫建委主任马晓伟1月26日在国务院新闻办公室举行的新闻发布会上也表示，从观察情况看，新型冠状病毒的潜伏期大约在10天左右，最长的潜伏期是14天，且在潜伏期间仍具有传染性，与SARS有很大的不同。
The incubation period of the new coronavirus is about 10 days, the longest incubation period is 14 days, and it is still infectious during the incubation period, which is very different from SARS, Ma Xiawei, director of the National Health and Construction Commission, told a news conference at the State Council Information Office on January 26.
据世界卫生组织公布的数据显示，SARS病毒的潜伏期为2~10天，在其潜伏期可因传播途径、感染病毒量及其它因素(如免疫力)不同而在个体出现差别。
According to data published by the World Health Organization, the incubation period of the SARS virus is 2-10 days and can vary among individuals depending on the route of transmission, the amount of virus infection and other factors, such as immunity.
可以看出，相较SARS病毒，新型冠状病毒的潜伏期要更长一些。
It can be seen that the incubation period of the new coronavirus is longer than that of the SARS virus.
北京化工大学生命科学与技术学院院长，中华医学会微生物学与免疫学专业委员会委员童贻刚在接受界面新闻采访时强调，“潜伏期”实际是指从患者感染病毒到出现首发症状的时间，并不是很多民众以为的从个体被感染到最终确诊的时间。
"The incubation period" refers to the time between a person's infection and the onset of symptoms, rather than the time between an individual's infection and a final diagnosis, Tong Yigang, dean of the College of Life Sciences and Technology at Beijing Chemical University and a member of the Chinese Medical Association's Commission on Microbiology and Immunology, stressed.
“受到各种因素的影响，一些病例的确诊时间可能会比较长，但是其潜伏期其实并没有超过14天”。
"A number of cases may take longer to be diagnosed due to a combination of factors, but the incubation period does not in fact exceed 14 days.
童贻刚认为，新型冠状病毒的潜伏期并没有变长，病毒在产生疫情之后不可能有那么快的变异。
Tong Yigang believes that the incubation period of the new coronavirus did not become longer and the virus is unlikely to mutate so quickly after the outbreak.
一些极端个例可能是因为病例数不断扩大之后，观察到的一些个案，属正常现象。
Some extreme cases may be due to the fact that some of the cases observed after the number of cases has increased are normal.
童贻刚认为，尽管首发症状出现的时间也受到个体基因型和自身生理情况等多种因素的影响，但大多数人在2~14天之内都会有症状显现出来，只有极个别的的病例会出现潜伏期增长的情况。
Although the onset of symptoms is influenced by a variety of factors, such as individual genotypes and physiological conditions, most people show symptoms within 2-14 days, with only a few cases showing an increase in latency, according to Tong Yigang.
值得注意的是，2月10日，中国工程院院士钟南山团队的一篇论文对1099例（截至1月29日）新冠肺炎确诊患者的临床特征进行了回顾性研究。
Notably, on February 10, a paper by Zhong Nan-shan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, reviewed the clinical features of 1,099 patients diagnosed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia (as of January 29).
研究结果显示，新冠肺炎的中位潜伏期为3天，最长可达24天。
The results showed that the median incubation period was 3 days and up to 24 days.
钟南山在接受媒体采访时表示，这项研究结果表明，新型冠状病毒的潜伏期两极分化较为严重，患者的潜伏期长短不一。
In an interview with the media, Zhong Nan-shan said the results showed that the latency period of the new coronavirus was severe and the incubation period varied.
对于近期各地陆续发现的超长潜伏期案例，中国疾病预防控制中心原副主任，公共卫生和流行病学专家杨功焕向界面新闻表示，目前外界对新型冠状病毒的了解还是不够深入，要求我们在接下来防疫控疫的过程，对出现的极端个例情况进行深入探讨和分析，更加细致的研究。
In response to recent cases of extremely long incubation period, Yang Gonghuan, a public health and epidemiologist and former deputy director of the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told the Interface News that the current understanding of the new coronavirus is still inadequate.
她指出，在不了解确切情况之前，不应过早地下定论，民众也无需因为个别特例的出现而感到恐慌。
She pointed out that it was important not to prejudge the exact situation and that there was no need for people to panic over the emergence of particular cases.
杨功焕强调，虽然现在没法确认新冠病毒超长潜伏期是否真的存在，但可以确定，这种病例所占的比例并不高。
Yang stressed that while it was not possible to confirm whether the new cap virus had a long incubation period, the proportion of such cases could be determined to be low.
钟南山此前也强调，尽管研究表明最长的潜伏期是24天，但1099例病例中也只有1例，以这仅有的1例病例作为疾病的最长潜伏期并不够科学。
Zhong also previously stressed that, although studies show a maximum incubation period of 24 days, only 1 out of 1,099 cases is unscientific, with the only case as the longest incubation period for disease.
即便如此，有些地方在防控疫情中为了保险起见，开始自发延长14天隔离时间。
Even so, some places have spontaneously extended the 14-day quarantine period in order to be safe from the epidemic.
杨功焕对此表示，地方自行设定隔离期的做法并不科学，还是应该以国家卫健委推荐的隔离期为准。
Yang said that the local self-imposed isolation period is not scientific, or should be based on the recommended isolation period.
她表示，“如果一个地方感染者很多，把隔离期延长一点并不是不可以，但如果无限期延长的话，肯定会引发争议。
"If there is a lot of local infection, it's not impossible to extend the isolation period a little bit, but if it's extended indefinitely, it's definitely controversial," she said.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎超长潜伏期是否存在？。
Is there a long incubation period for new crown pneumonia?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎超长潜伏期是否存在？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国疾病预防控制中心原副主任杨功焕接受采访表示，现在没法确切地说超长潜伏期是否真的存在。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Yang Kun-hwan, former deputy director of China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview that it was impossible to say with certainty whether an 'unusually long incubation period' existed.
但可以确定，这种特例所占的比例并不高，民众无需过度紧张。
However, it can be ascertained that the proportion of such exceptions is not high and that the population does not have to be overly stressed.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
