抗击新冠肺炎过程中，医务人员是如何被传染的？。
How were medical staff infected during the fight against Newcrown Pneumonia?
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼“ SARS疫情爆发时，国内医务人员感染 996例，占所有临床诊断病例的18.8%。
Journalist: When the SARS outbreak broke out, 996 cases of infection occurred among medical personnel in China, accounting for 18.8 percent of all clinical cases diagnosed.
”2月18日上午10点30分，经全力抢救无效，武汉武昌医院院长刘智明因感染新冠肺炎在同济医院中法新城院区去世。
At 10.30 a.m. on Feb. 18, Liu Zhiming, director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, died in Tongji Hospital of France after suffering from pneumonia.
刘智明是第一位因感染新冠疫情去世的在职院长。
Liu Zhiming is the first serving dean to die from a new outbreak.
医务人员的感染、死亡会直接影响到公众的抗疫信心，及后续医疗救治力量的补充。
The infection and death of medical staff will directly affect the public's confidence in the fight against the disease, and follow-up medical treatment to supplement.
截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，其中湖北省报告1502例医务人员确诊病例，占全国医务人员确诊病例的87.5%。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, 1502 of which had been confirmed by medical personnel in Hubei Province, accounting for 87.5 percent of the cases confirmed by medical personnel nationwide.
但是，在另一份报告中，医务人员确诊病例数量更高。
However, in another report, the number of confirmed cases by medical personnel was higher.
2月17日中国疾病控制预防中心新型冠状病毒肺炎应急响应机制流行病学组在《中华流行病学杂志》上发表的新冠肺炎研究显示，截至2020年2月11日，在为新冠肺炎患者提供诊治服务的422家医疗机构中，共有3019名医务人员感染了新型冠状病毒（1716名确诊），其中5人死亡，粗病死率为0.3%。
As of February 11, 2020, 3,019 medical personnel (1,716 confirmed) had contracted the coronavirus (coronavirus) in 422 medical institutions providing services to patients with coronavirus, according to the Epidemiology Group of the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology.
该篇文章中，1688名有病情严重程度的医务人员确诊病例，集中在武汉（64%）和湖北其他地区（23.3%）。
In the article, 1,688 cases of serious illness were diagnosed by medical personnel, mainly in Wuhan (64%) and other parts of Hubei (23.3%).
同时该论文表示，截至目前，还没有证据表明，在任何一家为新型冠状病毒肺炎患者提供服务的医疗机构中发生了超级传播者事件。
And so far, the paper said, there was no evidence of a "super-communicator" incident in any of the medical facilities serving patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
但医务医务人员感染以及防护失败的具体原因仍有待深入调查。
However, the specific causes of infection and failure of medical personnel still need to be investigated.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉在接受央视采访时，对两份医护人员感染数据的出入进行解释。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health Care and Health Administration, explained the discrepancies between the two infection data of medical workers in an interview with CCTV.
“有些医护人员是在医院、在工作岗位上感染了新冠肺炎病毒，还有一些医护人员可能是在家庭或社区感染了新冠肺炎病毒，所以不能说这些医护人员都是在工作岗位上被感染的，不能说这些人都是由于防护不到位而造成了感染。
"Some of the paramedics were in hospitals, at work with Newcastle pneumonia, and some may have contracted the virus at home or in the community, so it cannot be said that they were infected at work, and it cannot be said that they were infected because of inadequate protection.
当然，在早期确实存在很多因为防护不到位而感染的医护人员病例。
Of course, there were many cases of health care workers infected by inadequate protection in the early years.
”在SARS疫情爆发期间，医务人员也是感染职业中分布最集中的的领域。
During the SARS outbreak, medical staff was also the area with the highest concentration of infections.
2003年3月，SARS疫情爆发期间，广东省首次公布的305例SARS患者中，医护人员占了三分之一。
During the SARS outbreak in March 2003, medical staff accounted for one-third of the 305 SARS cases first reported in Guangdong Province.
根据北京大学公共卫生学院的的一份《SARS流行病学》资料显示，2002年11月-2003年8月5日间，国内医务人员感染 996例，占所有临床诊断病例的18.8%。
According to a SARS Epidemiology Report from the Beijing University School of Public Health, between November 2002 and August 5, 2003, there were 996 cases of infection among medical personnel in the country, accounting for 18.8% of all clinical diagnoses.
2004年中国疾病与预防控制中心环境与健康相关产品安全所陶茂萱等人发表在《职业与健康》上的《医务人员感染传染性非典型肺炎的影响因素分析》一文，医护穿隔离服的层数、戴口罩个数、是否带眼罩、洗手装置是否为非接触式、初始接触病人是否戴口罩、是否参与吸痰等皆为医务人员感染SARS的单因素。
The number of layers of medical staff wearing protective clothing, the number of masks worn, whether hand washing devices are contactless, whether patients in initial contact wear masks and whether they take part in sputum inhalation are the only factors affecting medical staff to contract SARS.
同时，该篇文章表示，传染科病房没有明确的分区，也使得SARS在病房内传播成为可能。
At the same time, the article said there was no clear division of the ward, making it possible for SARS to spread within the ward.
“本次调查中，发现有些医院在病房、候诊室和办公室使用了中央空调，但如果使用不当，则容易造成交叉感染。
"In this survey, some hospitals were found to use central air conditioners in wards, waiting rooms and offices, but were prone to cross-infection if not properly used.
因此，在SARS流行期间，在医院的所有区域有必要禁止使用普通的中央空调。
Therefore, during the SARS epidemic, it was necessary to ban the use of common central air conditioning in all areas of hospitals.
”另据黄金水等人在《众多医护人员感染SARS的原因初探》中表示，暴露于污染环境的时间过长、医护人员未能及时获取疫情信息等也都为众多医护人员感染SARS的原因，“医务人员及早了解疫情信息，可以做到早发现、早报告、早隔离和早治疗；另一方面可以使医护人员及时采取有效措施充分做好个人自身防护，减少自身遭受感染的机会。
"Early detection, early reporting, early isolation and early treatment can be achieved by medical staff with early detection, early reporting, early isolation and early treatment," the report said in a report on the reasons for the spread of SARS among health-care workers.
SARS流行早期，广东省有较多医护人员被感染，一个重要的外因就是医护人员未能及时获得疫情信息。
In the early stage of SARS epidemic, more medical staff were infected in Guangdong Province. An important external factor was the failure of medical staff to obtain timely information on the epidemic.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗击新冠肺炎过程中，医务人员是如何被传染的？。
How were medical staff infected during the fight against Newcrown Pneumonia?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "抗击新冠肺炎过程中，医务人员是如何被传染的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How was medical personnel infected with Newcrown Pneumonia?;
var msg_desc = "SARS疫情爆发时，国内医务人员感染 996例，占所有临床诊断病例的18.8%。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the time of the SARS outbreak, 996 cases, or 18.8 per cent of all clinical diagnoses, were infected by domestic medical personnel.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
