Switch即将面临全球断货，分散供应链迫在眉睫。
Switch is facing a global outage and a fragmented supply chain is imminent.
伍洋宇。
Wu Yanyu.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：unsplash记者：伍洋宇“ 在情况未得到缓解之前，Switch及其游戏价格很可能会有不同程度的走高趋势。
http: / / unsplash: Woolworths Until things get better, Switch and its game prices are likely to go up in varying degrees.
”尽管《健身环大冒险》价格走高引起了一些消费者的不满，但它可能很快连买也买不到了。
Although the rise in the price of Fitness Circle Adventures has caused some consumer dissatisfaction, it may soon be too expensive to buy.
据彭博社报道，了解任天堂供应链的知情人士表示，在新型冠状病毒疫情影响下，供应链工厂的生产受阻可能将任天堂Switch带入全球缺货状态，美国和欧洲市场最早可能在4月份就断货。
According to Bloomberg, people familiar with Nintendo's supply chain say a disruption to production at supply chain factories could lead Nintendo Switch into global stock-outs, with U.S. and European markets likely to close as early as April, according to people familiar with Nintendo's supply chain.
该知情人士还表示，任天堂在越南组装工厂的产量正在受到中国的部分零部件供应商的影响，这家工厂目前为任天堂的美国市场生产游戏机。
The person also said Nintendo's production of assembly plants in Vietnam is being affected by some parts suppliers in China, which now makes consoles for Nintendo's US market.
而二三月零部件的短缺将直接影响Switch在4月份的发货量，因为现有库存在当前订单需求下都已经售罄。
A shortage of spare parts in February and March will have a direct impact on Switch shipments in April as existing stocks run out in the face of current orders.
Switch发言人曾表示，中国向日本提供的硬件和配件，将受到疫情导致的停工的影响，目前日本已经基本售罄Switch的零售库存，但最大的北美市场暂时不会受到影响。
Switch spokesmen have said the hardware and accessories China has supplied to Japan will be affected by the shutdown caused by the outbreak and that Japan has almost exhausted its retail inventory within Switch, but the biggest North American market will not be affected for the time being.
“我们目前没有发现运往美国的产品有受到任何重大影响，但我们会保持警惕，并在必要的时候采取相应措施。
"We do not see any significant impact on shipments to the United States at this time, but we will be vigilant and take action if necessary."
”这位发言人表示，“如果疫情蔓延更加广泛、持续更长时间，供应可能会受到影响。
"If the epidemic spreads more widely and continues for a longer period, supply could be affected," the spokesman said.
”这与彭博社报道的说法较为相符。
This is more in line with what Bloomberg reports.
据悉，由于货物早已运出，二三月到达美国的Swtich货量不会受到影响，问题就在于四月及以后，运往美国和欧洲市场的货船可能会受到影响，致使两个地区都无法得到充足的Switch。
The problem is that, in April and beyond, cargo ships bound for the US and European markets could be affected, leaving neither region without adequate switches.
据了解，北美地区在任天堂的核心业务中占比43%，是其最大的市场，如果北美地区出现长期缺货，对于任天堂2020财年的表现将有较大影响。
North America, which accounts for 43 per cent of Nintendo's core business, is understood to be its biggest market, and a prolonged shortage in North America could have a big impact on Nintendo's performance in fiscal year 2020.
对于这一现象，任天堂等多家有类似处境的公司可能会采取分散供应链的应对方式。
A number of similarly situated companies, such as Nintendo, are likely to respond to this phenomenon by diversifying their supply chains.
在1月的财报记者会上，任天堂的社长古川俊太郎针对新型肺炎称，“对生产的影响已开始明显出现”。
At a press conference in January, Nintendo's president, Mr. Kokawa, said of the new pneumonia that "the impact on production is beginning to be felt."
考虑到多种风险，已开始讨论扩大生产地。
Discussions have begun on expanding production sites, taking into account the multiple risks involved.
瑞银亚太区半导体行业分析师吕家璈向界面新闻表示，分散供应链在全球来看已经正在发生，以前不明显，但疫情逼着供应链不得不采取行动。
Lu Jiao-ao, an analyst with UBS Asia Pacific semiconductor industry, told Interface News that decentralized supply chains were already taking place globally and had not been apparent before, but the epidemic was forcing supply chains to act.
而在上述情况未得到缓解之前，Switch及其游戏价格很可能会有不同程度的走高趋势。
Until that happens, Switch and its game prices are likely to go up in varying degrees.
“不要买理财了买个RingFit（健身环）吧。
"Don't buy financial resources buy a RingFit.
”一位消费者不得不对如今健身环的价格如此感叹。
One consumer has to lament the price of a fitness ring today.
界面新闻记者发现，如今在淘宝、京东、闲鱼等电商交易平台上搜索“健身环”，其价格普遍在1800元至2000元左右。
Interface reporters found that today in Taobao, Jingdong, fish and other electronic commerce trading platform search "fitness ring," its price is generally between 1800 yuan and 2000 yuan.
而在刚刚上市时，《健身环大冒险》的美版价格为79.99美元，日版价格为7980日元，均在人民币500元左右，这意味着如今价格已经翻了三到四倍。
At the time of its launch, 'The Ring of Fitness Adventure' cost $79.99 in the U.S. and Y7,980 in Japan, both in the vicinity of 500 yuan, meaning prices have now quadrupled or quadrupled.
事实上，这款受欢迎的Swtich游戏早在疫情影响来临之前就涨价甚猛，2019年10月它刚刚发布，仅一个月之后国内现货价格就已超过800元并直逼900元。
In fact, the popular Swtich game, which was launched in October 2019 just before the epidemic hit, is now worth more than 800 yuan a month from now and nearly $900 a day later.
任天堂正拥有一个不错的发展速度。
Nintendo is having a good rate of growth.
据其1月30日发布的财报看来，其最新财年的净销售额为10226亿日元，同比上一财年的9973亿日元增长2.5%，营业收入为2629亿日元，同比上一财年的2200亿日元增长19.5%。
Its latest fiscal year reported net sales of Y1022.6 billion, up 2.5% from Y997.3 billion in the previous fiscal year and generating Y262.9 billion in operating revenue, up 19.5% from Y220bn in the previous fiscal year.
其中，Switch主机在全球销量已经超过了5248万台，软件游戏销量超过了3.1亿。
Switch has sold more than 52.48 million units worldwide and more than 310 million software games.
也就是说，对于任天堂而言，无论如何要将疫情影响控制到最小，否则近一年的销量和收入都将受到影响。
That said, for Nintendo, keeping the impact of the epidemic to a minimum will hurt sales and revenues for nearly a year.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
Switch即将面临全球断货，分散供应链迫在眉睫。
Switch is facing a global outage and a fragmented supply chain is imminent.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "Switch即将面临全球断货，分散供应链迫在眉睫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Switch & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在情况未得到缓解之前，Switch及其游戏价格很可能会有不同程度的走高趋势。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Switch and its game prices are likely to rise in varying degrees before things ease.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
