转染色体牛有望对抗新型冠状病毒。
Transgenic bovine is expected to resist the new coronavirus.
汤波。
Tang Bo.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲转染色体牛。
Transgenic cattle.
（sabbiotherapeutics.com/图）全文共3465字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text of 3,465 words (sabbiotherapeutics.com / diagram) takes about seven minutes to read.
目前新型冠状病毒肺炎尚缺乏针对性药物和疫苗，美国一家公司培育出一种转染色体牛，可短时间大规模生产抗致病性病毒的人源多克隆抗体药物，其生产的抗MERS冠状病毒多克隆抗体药物已进入临床试验，该技术预计也可用于新型冠状病毒药物开发。
A US company has developed a transgenic polyclonal antibody (HPAT) for short-term mass production of human-derived polyclonal antibodies against the pathogenic virus, and has entered clinical trials for the production of an anti-MERS coronavirus polyclonal antibody, which is also expected to be used in the development of a new coronavirus drug.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特约撰稿 汤波责任编辑 | 朱力远截止到2020年1月27日24时，全国已累计确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例4515人，传播速度已超过同为冠状病毒引发的严重急性呼吸综合征（SARS）和中东呼吸综合征（MERS）。
As of 2400 hours on January 27, 2020, a cumulative total of 4,515 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been diagnosed nationwide, outpacing SARS and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), also coronavirus.
目前针对新型冠状病毒肺炎，尚缺乏有效的抗病毒药物，主要采取隔离治疗和对症支持治疗，以帮助病毒感染者控制症状，依靠其自身免疫力对抗病毒。
At present, for the new coronavirus pneumonia, there is a lack of effective antiviral drugs, mainly isolated treatment and symptomatic support treatment to help people infected with the virus control symptoms, relying on their own immunity against antiviral.
不过，美国一家公司培育出一种基因工程奶牛，其生产的抗MERS冠状病毒多克隆抗体药物已进入临床试验，也可用于新型冠状病毒药物开发。
However, a US company has developed a gene-engineered cow that produces anti-MERS coronavirus-resistant polyclonal antibody drugs that have entered clinical trials and could also be used in the development of new coronavirus drugs.
1MERS冠状病毒多抗药物进入临床总部位于美国南达科他州苏福尔斯市的SAB生物制药公司历经十多年的持续研发和改进，培育出一种特殊的基因工程奶牛，理论上可抗任何病原体的人源化多克隆抗体。
1MERS Coronavirus Multi-Antigen Into Clinical Headquarters SAB Biopharmaceutical Company in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, developed and improved over a decade to produce a unique genetically engineered cow that could theoretically resist humanized polyclonal antibodies to any pathogen.
这种基因工程牛的自身免疫球蛋白基因被全部破坏后，转入了一些人类染色体片段，这些染色体片段包含可合成人免疫球蛋白重链和轻链分子的所有基因，因此这种基因工程牛也被称为转染色体牛。
The genetically engineered cows, whose autoimmune globulin genes have been completely destroyed, move into segments of human chromosomes that contain all the genes that synthesize the heavy chains of human immunoglobulins and light-chain molecules, so the genetically engineered cows are also known as transgenic cows.
当给这些转染色体牛注射某种抗原时，牛体内将在短时间内大量合成特异性的人源多克隆抗体，而这些抗体则可用于预防或治疗人类所面临的病毒等病原体感染。
When these transgenic cows are injected with an antigen, a large number of specific human-specific polyclonal antibodies will be synthesized in the bovine body within a short period of time, and these antibodies can be used to prevent or treat human exposure to pathogens such as viruses.
一头转染色体牛经过10周左右免疫，所生产的多克隆抗体可以满足100-200个患者使用，可谓相当高效。
After about 10 weeks of immunization, a transchromosome cow can produce a polyclonal antibody that can be used by 100-200 patients, making it quite efficient.
这一思路与注射抗血清预防狂犬病类似，不过与动物源抗体相比，人源多克隆抗体不易引发人体严重不良反应，更加安全有效。
This idea is similar to that of antiserum injections to prevent rabies, but compared with animal antibodies, human polyclonal antibodies are less likely to cause serious adverse reactions and are safer and more effective.
中东呼吸综合征是由中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒引发，该病毒虽与SARS冠状病毒和2019年新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）属于不同种，但是都同属于β冠状病毒属。
Mideast Respiratory Syndrome is caused by the coronavirus of the Middle East respiratory syndrome, which is different from the SARS coronavirus and the 2019 new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), but belongs to the same genus of coronavirus.
中东呼吸综合征的主要症状为急性呼吸窘迫，2012年9月首次在沙特被发现，截止到2019年11月底，全球已确诊的感染病例2494人，其中858人死亡，病死率高达34.4%，这些感染病例来自27个国家，因此被世界卫生组织定性为“全球健康威胁”。
The main symptom of respiratory syndrome in the Middle East is acute respiratory distress, first detected in Saudi Arabia in September 2012. By the end of November 2019, there were 2,494 confirmed cases of infection worldwide, including 858 deaths, representing a fatality rate of 34.4 per cent.
由于属于新发传染病，尚无有效的预防和治疗手段。
There are no effective means of prevention and treatment because they are newly emerging infectious diseases.
据美国科学出版集团旗下的《科学·转化医学》杂志2016年1月报道，SAB生物制药公司与美国陆军传染病医学研究所等研究机构合作，分别用两种来自中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒不同亚型的候选疫苗，一种为灭活疫苗，另一种为刺突蛋白（冠状病毒入侵宿主细胞的关键蛋白）亚单位疫苗，免疫转染色体牛后，对牛血液中的抗体进行纯化，制备成两种针对不同病毒亚型的人源多克隆抗体药物（SAB-300和SAB-301），其中用MERS冠状病毒突刺蛋白亚单位疫苗免疫制备的SAB-301已被用于开展临床前研究。
In January 2016, SAB Biopharmacology, in collaboration with research institutes such as the Army's Institute of Infectious Medicine, used two candidate vaccines from different subtypes of coronavirus - inactivated vaccine and SAB-301 from different coronavirus subtypes of coronavirus.
动物攻毒试验显示，在感染该病毒12小时之前，或者感染病毒24小时和48小时后，对试验小鼠进行SAB-301注射，均能在5天内，迅速有效地将体内病毒滴度控制在接近或达到可检测水平之下，表明转染色体牛生产的人源化多克隆抗体既可预防MERS冠状病毒感染，也可用于该病毒感染后的治疗，而且只需要十多头转染色体，即可生产出满足目前感染人数所需的多克隆抗体药物。
Animal assays showed that SAB-301 injections in mice 12 hours before infection or 24 and 48 hours after infection were able to quickly and effectively control viral titrations in vivo within five days, suggesting that transchromosomal progenitor polyclonal antibodies can prevent and treat both coronavirus infection and require only a dozen transchromosomes to produce the polyclonal antibody needed to satisfy the current number of infections.
临床前试验完成后，SAB公司很快启动了SAB-301的临床试验。
SAB soon began clinical trials of SAB-301 after the completion of pre-clinical trials.
据《柳叶刀·传染病》杂志2018年4月报道，SAB生物制药公司等研究机构已于2016年5月，在美国国立卫生研究院临床中心进行了SAB-301的随机双盲、安慰剂对照、单剂量递增临床I期试验。
In April 2018, The Lancet Infectious Diseases magazine reported that research institutes such as SAB Biopharmacology had conducted SAB-301's randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose incremental clinical phase I trials at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center in May 2016.
该临床试验招募并筛选了年龄在18-60岁之间的38名健康志愿者，其中28人注射SAB-301，另外10人注射安慰剂，最低剂量1毫克/公斤体重，最高剂量为50毫克/公斤体重。
The clinical trial recruited and screened 38 healthy volunteers between the ages of 18 and 60, 28 of whom received SAB-301 injections and 10 others were given placebos with a minimum dose of 1 mg / kg bw and a maximum dose of 50 mg / kg bw.
经过90天的观察，实验组82%的患者出现不良反应，包括头痛、蛋白尿、肌肉痛和感冒等，不过相关不良反应并不比对照组严重，因此这项临床试验的结果证明了用转染色体牛生产的抗MERS冠状病毒多克隆抗体安全性和耐受性较好，并且其半衰期与人源抗体相同，符合进入后续临床试验的条件。
After 90 days of observation, 82% of the subjects had adverse reactions, including headache, proteinuria, muscle pain, and colds, but the adverse effects were no worse than those in the control group. The results of this clinical trial therefore confirmed that the anti-MERS coronavirus polyclonal antibodies produced by transchromosomal cattle are safe, well tolerated and with the same half-life as human antibodies.
SAB生物制药公司计划联合其他研究机构进行SAB-301的后续临床试验，以评估相关国家MERS患者的药效和用药剂量。
SAB Biopharmaceuticals plans to conduct follow-up clinical trials of SAB-301 with other research institutions to assess the efficacy and dose of MERS patients in the countries concerned.
如果SAB-301最终通过临床试验获得新药证书，有望成为全球第一个上市的人源多克隆抗体药物。
If SAB-301 is eventually certified as a new drug through clinical trials, it could become the world's first publicly available human-derived polyclonal antibody drug.
▲ 人源多克隆抗体药物。
Anthropogenic polyclonal antibody drugs.
（sabbiotherapeutics.com/图）2对抗新型冠状病毒是否可行2020年1月24日，中国疾病预防控制中心高福院士团队和谭文杰研究员课题组在国际顶级医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》上，首次披露了中国科学家发现引发此次武汉肺炎疫情的新型冠状病毒全过程。
On January 24, 2020, the team of academicians from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the team of researchers from Tan Wenjie unveiled in the New England Journal of Medicine the new coronavirus that Chinese scientists have discovered that triggered the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan.
研究人员首先通过检测试剂盒排除了已知病毒和细菌等特定病原体，包括四种可感染人类的冠状病毒（HCoV-229E、 HCoV-NL63、 HCoV-OC43和HCoV-HKU1），并从三位武汉肺炎患者的样品中分离出一种全新的冠状病毒，体外实验表明该病毒可感染人呼吸道上皮细胞。
The researchers first eliminated specific pathogens, including four coronaviruses known to infect humans (HCoV-229E, HCoV-NL63, HCoV-OC43, and HCoV-HKU1) and isolated a new coronavirus from samples of three Wuhan pneumonia patients, which has been shown to infect human respiratory epithelial cells in vitro.
通过基因组测序及比对分析，研究人员发现这种病毒与SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒同属于β冠状病毒属。
Through genome sequencing and comparative analysis, the researchers found that the virus and SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus belong to the genus of coronavirus.
新型冠状病毒与SARS冠状病毒亲缘关系较近，均属于冠状病毒属的Sarbe病毒亚属，正冠状病毒亚科，但是新发现的冠状病毒形成了另一个进化分枝，其基因组序列与一个此前报道过的蝙蝠SARS样冠状病毒同源性超过85%。
The coronavirus is related to the SARS coronavirus and belongs to the Sarbe virus subgenus of coronavirus, but the newly discovered coronavirus forms another branch of the coronavirus with a genome sequence similar to that of a previously reported bat SARS-like coronavirus of over 85%.
该病毒与MESR冠状病毒亲缘关系较远，后者属于另一个冠状病毒亚属。
The virus is related to the MESR coronavirus, which belongs to another coronavirus subgenus.
由于新发现的冠状病毒与其他β冠状病毒属的其他成员在RNA复制酶保守区域同源性不到90%，研究人员认定该病毒为新型冠状病毒，并命名为2019-nCoV，为已知第七种可感染人类的冠状病毒。
Since the newly discovered coronavirus is less than 90% homologous in the RNA replication enzyme conserved area with other members of the coronavirus, the researchers identified the virus as a new coronavirus and named it 2019-nCoV, the seventh coronavirus known to infect humans.
与SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒一样，新型冠状病毒也是依靠刺突蛋白入侵宿主细胞，将病毒遗传物质注入病毒，而刺突蛋白已被用于开发SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒的候选疫苗。
Like the SARS coronavirus and the MERS coronavirus, the new coronavirus also relies on the punctured protein to invade host cells, injecting virus genetic material into the virus, and the spike protein has been used to develop candidate vaccines for the SARS coronavirus and the MERS coronavirus.
目前SAB公司利用MERS冠状病毒的刺突蛋白纳米颗粒作为疫苗免疫转染色体牛，短时间大规模制备出能中和MERS冠状病毒的多克隆抗体候选药物，因此这种转染色体牛也可用于制备抗新型冠状病毒的多克隆抗体药物。
At present, SAB uses the ferulin nanoparticles of the MERS coronavirus as vaccine to immunize the transchromosomal cows. Therefore, the transchromosomal cows can also be used to prepare polyclonal antibody drugs against the new coronavirus.
不过，还需要进一步验证新型冠状病毒的刺突蛋白亚单位疫苗是否能诱导人体或转染色体牛产生抗体，这些抗体能否用于中和新型冠状病毒。
However, it needs to be further verified whether the new coronavirus's spindle protein subunit vaccine can induce the human body or transchromosomal bovine antibodies to produce antibodies that can be used to neutralize the new coronavirus.
2020年1月26日，国家卫生健康委员会高级别专家组成员、中国疾病预防控制中心主任高福院士在国务院新闻发布会上表示，该中心已着手启动新型冠状病毒疫苗研发。
On January 26, 2020, Gao Fuk, a member of the high-level panel of the National Health Council and director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told a State Council press conference that the center had started research and development of a new coronavirus vaccine.
目前，美国、澳大利亚等国家的多个科研团队和医药公司也表示正在研发包括信使RNA疫苗在内的新型冠状病毒疫苗，专家预计2~3个月可开展人体临床试验。
Researchers and pharmaceutical companies in the United States and Australia have also said they are working on a new coronavirus vaccine, including a messenger RNA vaccine, which experts expect will be available for clinical trials in humans over the next two to three months.
不过，国内外曾有多个课题组试图研发针对SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒的候选疫苗，包括病毒全灭活疫苗，但是尚未获得成功，其中SARS冠状病毒疫苗已有近15年的研究历史，可见疫苗研发的难度。
However, several teams at home and abroad have been trying to develop candidate vaccines against SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus, including the virus completely inactivated vaccine, but this has not been successful. The SARS coronavirus vaccine has been studied for nearly 15 years, making it difficult to develop a vaccine.
如果发现有价值的候选疫苗，直接免疫转染色体牛，制备预防和治疗新型冠状病毒肺炎，或许是一个不错选择。
If a valuable candidate vaccine is found, directly immunizing the transgenic coronavirus cow and preparing for the prevention and treatment of the new coronavirus pneumonia may be a good choice.
3对抗其他致病性病毒也有希望除了MERS冠状病毒，SAB公司正在与其他研究机构和公司联合开发对付埃博拉病毒、寨卡病毒、H7N9禽流感病毒等致病性病毒的人源多克隆抗体药物，其中针对埃博拉病毒的多克隆抗体药物也已进入临床试验。
3 There is also hope for fighting other pathogenic viruses. In addition to the MERS coronavirus, SAB is working with other research institutions and companies to develop human-derived polyclonal antibody drugs against the Ebola virus, Zika virus, H7N9 avian influenza virus, among which the polyclonal antibody drug for Ebola is also in clinical trials.
埃博拉病毒是引发人类和灵长类动物发生埃博拉出血热的烈性传染病病毒，死亡率高达30%-90%。
Ebola is a powerful infectious disease virus that causes Ebola haemorrhagic fever in humans and primates, with a mortality rate of up to 30-90 per cent.
2014年在西非再次爆发，感染病例多达2.8万，已造成1.1万多人死亡，是近几十年来全世界最严重的一次疫情。
The renewed outbreak in West Africa in 2014, with up to 28,000 infections and more than 11,000 deaths, is the worst outbreak in the world in recent decades.
2018年12月，SAB公司研发人员利用埃博拉病毒糖蛋白纳米颗粒疫苗免疫转染色体牛，制备出可中和该病毒的多克隆抗体。
In December 2018, SAB R & D staff used the Ebola virus glycoprotein nanoparticle vaccine to immunize transchromosomal cattle to produce polyclonal antibodies that neutralized the virus.
当将这些抗体注射到感染埃博拉病毒1天或3天的猴子体内后，这些猴子都存活下来，而对照组（注射其它抗体或盐水）的猴子无一存活，表明该多克隆抗体可以对埃博拉病毒感染的动物起到显著保护作用，这一研究结果与3年前小鼠攻毒试验一致。
When the antibodies were injected into monkeys infected with Ebola for a day or three days, the monkeys survived, while none of the control monkeys (injected with other antibodies or brine) survived, suggesting that the polyclonal antibody could significantly protect Ebola-infected animals, a finding consistent with mice tested three years ago.
目前该团队已申请临床试验，以开发出抗埃博拉病毒的人源多克隆抗体新药。
The team has now applied for clinical trials to develop a new human-borne polyclonal antibody against Ebola.
2019年2月，SAB公司与犹他州立大学等机构合作，开发出抗寨卡病毒的人源多克隆抗体，仓鼠攻毒试验显示，该抗体同样具有预防和治疗寨卡病毒感染的作用。
In February 2019, SAB, in collaboration with institutions such as Utah State University, developed a human-derived polyclonal antibody to the Zika virus, which has also been shown to be effective in preventing and treating Zika virus infections in hamsters.
SAB公司还采用与转染色体牛相似的技术路线，培育出新的转染色体山羊，用H7N9禽流感疫苗进行免疫后，能产生可中和禽流感病毒的人源多克隆抗体。
SAB also uses a technology similar to that of transchromosomal cattle to develop new trans-chromosome goats that, when immunized with the H7N9 avian influenza vaccine, can produce human-derived polyclonal antibodies that neutralize the avian influenza virus.
由此可见，转染色体动物平台可在短时间大规模生产对致病性病毒感染有显著保护作用的抗体药物，是应对未知烈性传染病甚至生化袭击的重要技术。
Therefore, transchromosome animal platform can produce antibody drugs with obvious protective effect on pathogenic virus infection in short period of time. It is an important technology to deal with unknown strong infectious diseases and even biochemical attacks.
目前这项技术仅美国掌握，我国可与美国公司开展新型冠状病毒药物的联合开发，不过从长远来看，我国也应该建立自主的转染色体动物技术平台。
At present, this technology is only available in the United States. We can jointly develop new coronavirus drugs with US companies. However, in the long run, China should also set up an autonomous platform for transgenic animals.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
转染色体牛有望对抗新型冠状病毒。
Transgenic bovine is expected to resist the new coronavirus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "转染色体牛有望对抗新型冠状病毒";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Transgenic cattle may have fought against new coronavirus & quot;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
