我们的朋友刘智明。
Our friend Liu Zhiming.
何雾。
What fog?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图说：年轻时的刘智明（右三）。
Tu said: young Liu Zhiming (third right).
受访者供图。
Supplied by respondents.
记者：何雾“ 第一位牺牲的武汉医院院长生前事。
Reporter: He fog "the first sacrifice of Wuhan hospital director before his death."
”每个周末，郧阳地区人民医院（现十堰太和医院）团委书记刘家敏，总是能看到那个叫刘智明的年轻人提前来到职工餐厅，布置晚上舞会的场地。
"Every weekend Liu Jiamin, secretary of Yunyang District People's Hospital (now Shiyan Taihe Hospital), always sees the young man named Liu Zhiming arrive early to set the stage for the evening dance.
他身材修长，长相“极其英俊”，刘家敏对他印象深刻。
He was tall and handsome, and Liu Jiamin was very impressed with him.
那是1994年，湖北十堰。
It was Shiyan, Hubei Province in 1994.
25岁的刘智明刚刚从湖北医学院（现武汉大学医学院）毕业，被分配到外三病区专事神经外科。
Liu Zhiming, 25, has just graduated from Hubei Medical College (now Wuhan University Medical School) and has been assigned to neurosurgery in the Three Districts.
这个年轻的团干热情饱满，性格外向，和其他年轻人一样业务能力突出。
This young group is enthusiastic, extroverted, and as professional as any young man.
太和医院曾在历史上出了很多院长，刘智明所在的科室，由郧阳地区医院党委书记、院长王伦长带领，同科室的涂汉军、罗杰，也各自走上了领导岗位，外三科也被当地人称为“院长科室”。
Taihe Hospital has made many deans in history, Liu Zhiming's department, led by Yunyang District Hospital Party Secretary, Dean Wang Lun, together with the painted Han Army and Roger, also took up leading posts, the other three subjects are also known as "Dean's Office."
刘家敏说，大家都是年轻人，私交甚笃，周末常常在一起吃饭、饮酒。
'Everyone is young and very close, 'Mr. Liu said.' We often eat and drink together on weekends.
1995年，刘智明调往武汉第三人民医院后，两人便再也没见过。
In 1995, Liu Zhiming transferred to Wuhan Third People's Hospital, the two have never seen each other again.
刘智明在三医院是从急诊科开始起步。
Liu Zhiming started out as an emergency department in Three Hospitals.
曾经与他在急诊科共事1年多的一名医生说，他胆大心细，作风果断。
A doctor who had worked with him in the emergency department for more than a year said he was bold and decisive.
他后来调入脑外科后，也得到了相似的评价。
He received a similar assessment after he was transferred to brain surgery.
一位武汉市三医院的护士记得，这位刚调来的年轻医生文质彬彬，待人诚恳，且重情义。
A nurse at Wuhan Three Hospital remembers that the young doctor who had just arrived was gentle, sincere and affectionate.
“护士们经常加班，他就自掏腰包，在外面餐馆叫人送餐过来，请大家吃饭。
"Nurses often work overtime, so he pays for them out of his own pocket and sends for meals out at restaurants.
”在共事的那段日子里，这位护士常常期待能跟着刘智明下病房。
During her working days, the nurse often looked forward to following him down the ward.
“他知识渊博，跟着他可以学到很多东西。
"He is very knowledgeable, and then he can learn a lot.
”她记得，刘智明常常在“医护得不到患者理解的时候，选择站出来，替我们解围”。
She remembers that Mr Liu often "chooses to come forward and bail us out when medical care is not understood by the patient."
也正是这样的性格特质，同样从十堰起家的医院领导金捷也注意到这个年轻人。
It is also such a personality characteristics, from the same Shiyan from the hospital leaders also noted that the young man.
他们虽同出一地，但此前并未共事。
They were co-located but had not worked together before.
已成长为武汉当地知名脑外科专家的刘智明在先后担任科室的副主任、主任后，履新医院行政职务，担任三医院的医务处副处长、处长。
Liu Zhiming, who has grown into a famous local brain surgery expert in Wuhan, has served as deputy director and director of each department, and taken up the administrative position of the new hospital as deputy director and director of the medical service of the three hospitals.
“敢于担当，在医务处工作这么多年，无论是医患纠纷，还是其他……他非常善于解决复杂问题，很难得的人才，”金捷回忆。
"Dare to take on it, working in the medical service for so many years, whether it's a doctor-patient dispute or something... He's a great problem solver, a rare talent," he recalls.
2013年，市里的主管部门也对他有着一致的好评，便将他调到武昌医院担任院长。
In 2013, he was also unanimously praised by the municipal authorities, who transferred him to the hospital in Wuchang as its director.
调任的那一天，金捷和医院书记开车把他送到武昌医院主持工作。
On the day of the transfer, Jin Jie and the hospital secretary drove him to Wuchang Hospital to take charge.
他还记得那一天的情景，“希望他到了一个新的单位，能发挥脑外科专家和行政管理方面的优势。
He remembers the day, "Hopefully he'll be in a new unit, able to tap into the strengths of brain surgery specialists and administrators.
他也确实做到了这一点，管理上也很好，口碑很好。
He did do it, and he was very well managed and well-reputed.
武昌医院也从二级医院升级成了三级医院。
Wuchang Hospital was upgraded from a level II hospital to a level III hospital.
”刘智明。
"Liu Zhiming.
资料图2020年1月20日，金捷最后一次看见刘智明，那是在市里紧急召开的防疫会上，市里的各大医院院长都到了。
2007-9-19 19: 19 [hide] Liu Zhiming was last seen on Jan. 20, 2020, at an emergency vaccination conference in the city where the city's major hospital directors were present.
他们共事多年，开完会后，也没有多余的交谈。
They had worked together for many years and had no extra conversations after the meeting.
金捷记得，他状态很好，“没有看出生病的迹象。
Ginger remembers that he was in good shape. "I didn't see any signs of illness.
”但事实上，据刘智明妻子回忆，在1月中旬，她的丈夫已持续低烧一周。
But in fact, according to his wife, in mid-January her husband had a low fever for a week.
她也是三医院的一名护士长，这段时间全程参与一线救治工作。
She was also a head nurse at the three hospitals, during which time she was involved in front-line treatment.
她没有感染。
She's not infected.
21日下午5点，金捷忽然接到老朋友的电话，刘智明告诉他，武昌医院被列为收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者的定点医院。
At 5 pm on the 21st, Jin Jie received a phone call from an old friend. Liu Zhiming told him that Wuchang Hospital was listed as a designated hospital for patients with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
他们就如何改造医院、收治病人交换了意见。
They exchanged views on how to reform hospitals and treat patients.
金捷认为，这样一家综合医院，要在短时间内改造成传染病收治医院，难度很大，需要做的工作很多。
Jin Jie thinks, such a general hospital, want to transform into infectious disease hospital in a short time, very difficult, need to do a lot of work.
刘智明说：“应该没问题。
"There should be no problem," Liu said.
”这是两人最后一次通话。
This was the last time the two talked.
刘智明没有告诉他自己的身体状况。
Liu Zhiming did not tell him his condition.
1月22日凌晨4点，刘智明拨通了妻子的电话，请她帮忙收拾一点换洗衣物送去，武昌医院称为定点医院后，他就不能回家了。
At 4 a.m. on January 22, Liu Zhiming dialed his wife and asked her to help with a few changes of clothes. After Wuchang Hospital was called a designated hospital, he could not go home.
这一天下午，当她再次接到电话时，被院方告知丈夫因感染新型冠状病毒肺炎住进了武昌医院重症病区。
That afternoon, when she was called again, the hospital told her husband that he had been admitted to the hospital in Wuchang for having contracted the new coronavirus pneumonia.
听闻刘智明生病后，金捷给他打了数次电话，都显示关机。
After hearing that Liu Zhiming was ill, Jin Jie called him several times.
武昌医院重症监护室主任告诉他，刘智明的病情一开始便很严重，“但一度好转”。
Wuchang Hospital intensive care unit director told him that Liu Zhiming's illness was very serious from the beginning, "but for a while improved."
2月14日，刘智明被转入同济医院中法院区重症监护室。
On 14 February, Mr. Liu was transferred to the intensive care unit of the court district of Tongji Hospital.
2020年2月17日，刘智明的家人告诉界面新闻，“还在抢救，专家还在看。
February 17, 2020, Liu Zhiming's family told the interface news, "is still rescue, experts are still looking.
”次日早上，刘智明所在的C区9楼重症监护室护士站的消息是：“非常凶险。
"The next morning, at the intensive care unit on the 9th floor of Area C where Liu Zhiming was located, the message was:" Very dangerous.
”同样身在疫区的十堰市也备受考验。
Shiyan City, also in an infected area, was also tested.
就在2020年2月18日上午，已是十堰市急救中心书记、主任的刘家敏还在跟朋友们讨论，“已经上了人工心肺机，是存在抢救过来的机会。
On the morning of February 18, 2020, Liu Jiamin, secretary and director of the Shiyan City First Aid Center, is still discussing with his friends, "Has an artificial heart-lung machine, is the opportunity to rescue.
但机会渺茫。
But the chances are slim.
”中午1点，刘家敏看到旧友刘智明去世的新闻推送时，明白奇迹没有发生。
When Liu saw the news that his old friend Liu Zhimin had died at 1 p.m., he knew that the miracle had not happened.
刘智明在十堰工作时候的老领导王伦长为他写下悼诗：惊闻智明歿沙㘯，老泪纵横如涌泉。
Liu Zhiming worked in Shiyan when the old leader Wang Lun wrote his eulogy: Zhi Ming Zhanchao, tears as the surging spring.
这天晚上，这些老朋友们互相通了个电话，借以缅怀刘智明。
That night, the old friends called each other to pay tribute to Liu Zhiming.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我们的朋友刘智明。
Our friend Liu Zhiming.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "我们的朋友刘智明";。
var msg _ title = & quot; our friend Liu Zhiming;;;
var msg_desc = "第一位牺牲的武汉医院院长生前事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the first deceased director of Wuhan Hospital.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
