防疫=不复工？上海经验告诉你方法。
Prevention = Do not resume work? Shanghai experience tells you the way.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 邹娟“终于可以解禁了！”2月16日，在上海自贸区上班的沈蔚明在朋友圈写下这句话，并配上一排笑脸表情。
Peng Pai reporter Zou Juan "can finally lift the ban!" Feb. 16, in Shanghai Free Trade Area, Shenyu Ming wrote this sentence in a circle of friends, with a row of smiling faces.
沈蔚明是公司项目主管，自从2月3日从老家回到上海，沈蔚明已经在公司安排的人才公寓自我隔离了14天，2月17日，他终于可以“解禁”，回公司上班了。
Shen Ulming, the company's project director, returned to Shanghai from his hometown on Feb. 3 and has spent 14 days isolating himself in a company-arranged mansion. Feb. 17, he was able to "unblock" and return to work.
而2月17日，是不少上海企业复工的日子。
Feb. 17 is the day when many Shanghai enterprises return to work.
澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）记者采访获悉，此前一周，上海不少企业边复工边摸索，不断寻找防疫与发展的最佳结合点，并逐渐形成一套行之有效的“上海样本。
News surging (www.thepper.cn) reporters learned that the previous week, many enterprises in Shanghai, while returning to work, continue to find the best combination of epidemic prevention and development, and gradually form an effective "Shanghai sample."
”这个样本，于企业，是谁用工谁负责的责任。
This sample, in the enterprise, is responsible for who uses the worker.
于园区，是“店小二”变身“楼小二”；于政府，是“一企一策”帮扶企业。
In the park, is "shop second" into "second floor"; in the government, is "one enterprise one policy" to help enterprises.
发展是硬道理，防控是硬任务，不断寻找防疫与发展的最佳结合点。
Development is the absolute principle, prevention and control is a hard task, constantly seeking epidemic prevention and development of the best combination.
这，就是上海的态度。
This is the attitude of Shanghai.
上海张江，企业复工后，机器人正在进行消毒。
Robots disinfect Zhang Jiang in Shanghai after the company resumes work.
本文图片均为受访者提供企业：谁用工谁负责如果你在车间不戴口罩生产，后果很严重。
The picture in this article provides the enterprise for the interviewee: Who is in charge of the production if you do not wear masks in the workshop, the consequences are serious.
位于浦东金桥开发区的中国移动（上海）产业研究院（以下简称“上研院”），开发了一套工厂口罩识别检测系统。
The Industrial Research Institute of China Mobile (Shanghai), located in Pudong Jinqiao Development Zone (hereinafter referred to as "Shanghai Institute"), has developed a factory mask recognition and detection system.
可以通过AI视觉检测功能，对厂区工人是否正确佩戴口罩的情形进行推断识别，并将口罩佩戴检测结果实时展示，及时告警违规行为。
The AI visual inspection function can be used to infer and identify whether the factory workers are wearing masks correctly, and display the mask wearing test results in real time.
此外，针对人员管理的方案，上研院实现远离封闭区域操作，避免感染；如果发现疑似病例，通过实时精准的位置轨迹追踪能力，可以帮助企业对接触人员快速排查，快速精准地找出密切接触者，避免企业全员被无差别隔离，降低成本损失。
In addition, personnel-managed programmes enable the Institute to operate far from enclosed areas to avoid infection; in the event of a suspected case, accurate locational tracking capabilities in real time can help enterprises quickly identify contacts, quickly and accurately identify close contacts, avoid indiscriminate isolation of the enterprise population and reduce cost losses.
上海张江一家企业复工后，茶水间在消毒。
A tea shop disinfects a factory in Zhangjiang, Shanghai.
当然，对于企业而言，规范管理的同时，对员工的关怀洋溢在细节间。
Of course, for the enterprise, the normative management at the same time, the care of employees overflow in the details.
位于普陀区长征镇的天地软件园，每家企业都准备了一套防控疫情的具体方法，筑牢疫情防控网。
In Changzheng, Putuo District, every enterprise has prepared a set of specific methods to prevent and control the epidemic, build a network of disease prevention and control.
一开工，上海喔噻互联网科技有限公司员工就收到了“小礼包”——口罩、红包、消毒酒精、安全提示告知书。
As soon as work begins, employees of Shanghai-timer Internet Technology Co., Ltd. receive "small gift bags" - masks, red packets, disinfectant alcohol, safety tips.
企业充分筹措疫情防控物资，储备医用口罩作为备用，为每位员工准备消毒喷雾，以便对办公用品、个人用品进行消毒，公司还准备了暖宝宝为员工保暖。
The company raised enough supplies for disease prevention and control, kept medical masks in reserve, prepared disinfectant sprays for each employee to disinfect office supplies and personal effects, and prepared warm babies to keep employees warm.
每天，上海庆科信息技术有限公司员工都在钉钉“打卡”，填写“全员每日健康”信息。
Every day, employees of Shanghai Qingke Information Technology Co. Ltd. nail "punch card", fill in "full daily health" information.
“注意保暖、不使用中央空调，室内必须佩戴口罩……”上海龙田数码科技有限公司为复工员工送上了防疫小贴士，以线上、线下结合的方式，加强宣传。
"Pay attention to the warmth, do not use central air conditioning, indoor must wear masks..." Shanghai Longtian Digital Technology Co. Ltd. for workers sent epidemic prevention tips, online and offline to strengthen publicity.
奉贤区，“楼小二”参与疫情防控。
Fengxian District, "building two" involved in disease prevention and control.
属地监管：“店小二”变身“楼小二”车间内有AI巡查助手，楼宇内则有身兼多职的“楼小二”。
Territorial supervision: "Shop II" into the "second floor" workshop has AI inspection assistant, the building has a multi-functional "second floor."
区内99％的企业都是中小企业、商务楼宇内集中遍布着一些企事业单位……2月6日，奉贤区针对61栋办公用途的楼宇，推出“楼小二”制度，由镇、开发区（集团公司）及其下属园区组建工作队伍，指派专人担任“楼小二”，作为包干责任人，对应指导督促楼宇运营单位做好防控工作。
On February 6, Fengxian District launched the "second floor" system for 61 buildings for business purposes. The staff of towns, development zones (conglomerates) and their subordinate parks will be designated as "building two" to be responsible for the contract.
督促楼宇运营方开展每天的保洁消毒、人员体温检测、企业告知等工作，做好楼宇在疫情防控工作中无法解决的问题记录和反馈，填报收集楼宇台帐登记情况并于每天15：00前汇总……这是“楼小二”们的日常。
Urging building operators to carry out daily cleaning disinfection, staff body temperature testing, enterprise information, etc., do a good job of building in the prevention and control of diseases can not solve the problem of records and feedback, fill in the collection of building ledger registration and before 15: 00 daily summary...
奉贤区经委服务业发展科科长刘巍表示，原来着重为企业做好营商环境服务的“店小二”此时升级为“楼小二”，既管控好疫情，同时也是服务好企业，让企业能够安全地渡过这个困难时期。
Liu Wei, head of the services development section of Fengxian District Commission, said that the "second shop," which had focused on providing business environment services to enterprises, was upgraded to "second floor" to control the epidemic, but also to serve good enterprises, so that enterprises can safely survive this difficult period.
奉贤区，海英科实业有限公司复工。
Fengxian District, Hai Ying Industrial Co. Ltd.
奉贤区，员工上班自动热成像检测，鞋底消毒。
Fengxian District, staff automatic thermal imaging inspection at work, shoe soles disinfection.
而普陀区长征镇的天地软件园，历来以周到的“楼长制”服务得到企业的肯定和青睐，此次企业复工期间，“楼长制”依然发挥有力作用，园区“店小二”们以楼宇为单位，以楼长为基层责任人，一家家企业沟通，细化复工期间疫情防控的举措。
However, the software park in Changzheng, Putuo District, has always been thoughtful "building system" service received the enterprise's affirmation and favor, during the resumption of work, the "building length system" still plays a strong role, the park "shop II" the building as the unit, the building owner as the grassroots responsible, communication between enterprises, refining the disease prevention and control measures during the resumption of work.
“你是哪家企业的？有没有从外地返沪的情况？请配合测量体温，登记信息。
"Which company are you from? Have you ever returned to Shanghai from abroad? Please check your temperature and register."
”在园区各个核查点位，“店小二”纷纷值守，加强核查，认真核对复工人员明细表，严格做好出入人员体温测量、信息登记、出入证发放等工作。
At various check-points on the park, Shop Two is on duty, stepping up verification, checking carefully the schedules of returning workers and strictly carrying out temperature checks, information registration and pass issuance for people leaving and entering the country.
陆家嘴金融管理局则建立楼宇疫情防控“颜色管理”机制。
Lujiazui Financial Management Bureau set up the building disease control "color management" mechanism.
陆家嘴285幢商办楼宇按照楼宇商居性质、入驻企业数量、复工企业人数、现场环境、防控设施条件等不同情况，建立重点楼宇、关注楼宇、特殊楼宇和一般关注楼宇四个等级的颜色管控方案。
The 285 commercial buildings in Lujiazui provide four grades of colour control solutions for key buildings, buildings of concern, special buildings and buildings of general concern, depending on the nature of the buildings, the number of resident enterprises, the number of reinstated enterprises, the site environment and the condition of the control facilities.
各楼宇工作组和包干人严格落实楼宇分级管理措施，确保楼宇包干工作落到实处。
Strict enforcement of building classification measures by building working groups and contractors to ensure proper building contracting.
长三角：为跨省通勤定制“通行证”长三角交接地区，不少员工跨省通勤，是否需要反复被隔离？每天上班入沪，都要重复填写个人信息吗？比如，据排摸统计数据显示，由上海金山前往浙江平湖嘉善的每天通勤人数约3100人，由平湖嘉善至金山的每天通勤人数约1500人。
For example, statistics show that about 3,100 people commute daily from Jinshan Mountain in Shanghai to Jiashan Lake in Zhejiang Province, and 1,500 commuters a day from Jiashan to Jinshan Mountain in Pinghu, Zhejiang Province.
2月15日，金山平湖嘉善三地在互访的基础上，共同推出“两书一证”人员车辆互认通行机制，个人如实填报《个人承诺书》和《健康状况信息登记表》，即能自由往来。
On February 15, Jinshan Pinghu Jiashan three places in the exchange of visits, jointly launched the "two books, one card" personnel and vehicles mutual recognition mechanism, individuals truthfully filled in the "personal undertaking" and "Health Status Information Registration Form," that is free to travel.
临时出入证。
Temporary grounds passes.
金山区供图不谋而合，2月14日，为解决类似困扰，充分发挥长三角地区联防联控优势，上海市嘉定区与江苏省昆山市签订《嘉昆两地联防联控备忘录》。
In order to solve similar problems and give full play to the advantages of joint control in the Yangtze River Delta region, Jiading District of Shanghai and Kunshan City of Jiangsu Province signed the Memorandum of Understanding on Joint Prevention of Jiakun on February 14.
当天起，曹安公路安亭检查站开辟专用通道，持有《工作通勤证》人员，每天早上7点至9点、下午4点至6点，可由专用通道往返安亭、花桥两地。
On the same day, a special passageway was opened at Anting checkpoint on the Cao An Road. Holders of the "commuter work permit" will be allowed to travel between Anting and Huaxao by special passageways from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
在完成测量体温、车辆检查等必要的检查流程后，出示本人有效证件以及安亭花桥居住小区《临时通行证》，“人、证”一致就可放行，入沪时，无需重复填报个人信息。
After completing the necessary check procedures such as temperature measurement and vehicle inspection, show your valid certificate and Temporary Pass for Anting Huaqiao residential area. The "person and certificate" can be released in agreement. There is no need to repeat personal information when entering Shanghai.
人员进入花桥境内，也将按照当地的疾控防疫要求进行检查。
People entering Huaxiao territory will also be checked according to the local requirements for disease control and epidemic prevention.
上海定位：防疫、发展两手抓既要防疫也要发展，从一开始，上海就有着明确的定位。
Shanghai positioning: epidemic prevention and development should be both epidemic prevention and development, from the beginning, Shanghai has a clear position.
2月8日，复工在即，上海市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组举行会议。
February 8, the resumption of work in the near future, the Shanghai new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia prevention and control work group met.
上海市委书记、市疫情防控工作领导小组组长李强主持会议并讲话。
Shanghai Municipal Party Secretary and head of the Municipal Outbreak Prevention and Control Team, Li Qiang chaired the meeting and spoke.
会议强调，要做好企业有序复工各项工作，严格落实各类单位疫情防控主体责任。
The meeting stressed that enterprises should do a good job of orderly resumption of work, strict implementation of various units of the main responsibility for disease prevention and control.
探索弹性工时、错岗上班、轮流到岗、远程办公、居家上班、变通考勤管理等有效方式。
Explore flexible working hours, staggered work, rotation to work, telecommuting, telecommuting, alternative attendance management, etc.
要全力支持企业发展，综合施策、精准施策，以政策确定性应对不确定性，帮助企业稳信心、稳预期。
To fully support enterprise development, comprehensive policy, precise policy, with certainty to deal with uncertainty, help enterprises steady confidence, stable expectations.
这，成为上海防疫和发展工作的“指南”。
This has become the "guide" for Shanghai's epidemic prevention and development work.
2月10日，上海企业有序复工首日。
On February 10, the first day of orderly resumption of work in Shanghai enterprises.
下午，李强先后前往交通枢纽、商务楼宇检查新冠肺炎疫情防控工作落实情况。
In the afternoon, Li Qiang went to traffic hub and commercial building to check the implementation of the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention and control.
当晚，上海市委常委会举行会议，明确要求属地防控包干制要实化细化。
In the evening, the Shanghai Standing Committee held a meeting, expressly requested that territorial control package to be concretized.
2月13日上午，李强来到浦东新区检查调研疾控中心、复工企业，并走进地铁金桥站、徐家汇站，实地察看疫情防控工作落实情况。
On February 13 morning, Li Qiang came to Pudong New District to inspect and investigate the CDC, restart enterprises, and walked into the subway station Jinqiao, Xujiahui Station, to observe the implementation of disease prevention and control work.
当天下午，上海市委常委会举行会议，要求统筹抓好当前疫情防控和安全生产工作。
That afternoon, the Standing Committee of the Shanghai Municipal Committee held a meeting to request that the prevention and control of the current epidemic and work safety.
自上而下的重视，换来政策的高效落实。
Top-down emphasis in return for the efficient implementation of policies.
2月8日，上海出台28条综合政策举措，全力支持企业抗击疫情，包括税收优惠、减免租金、金融支持等。
On February 8, Shanghai launched 28 comprehensive policy measures to support enterprises in fighting the epidemic, including tax breaks, rent relief and financial support.
上海16个区陆续出台细化支持方案。
Sixteen districts in Shanghai have been rolling out detailed support plans.
“一企一策”，“一事一议”成为政府精准施策的“标配”。
"One policy, one policy," "matter-by-case discussion" has become the "standard" of precise government policy.
2月10日，浦东排摸228家融资困难企业，搭桥银行开通绿色通道。
On February 10, Pudong typed 228 enterprises facing financing difficulties and built a bridge bank to open a green channel.
奉贤区内第一纳税大户美乐家，仅需2000个口罩就能实现开工，区有关部门第一时间帮助解决，让企业感受到政府的雪中送炭。
Fengxian District, the first major tax payer Meilei, only need 2, 000 masks can be started, the district authorities immediately help solve, so that enterprises feel the government in the snow.
“没有一个冬天不会过去，没有一个春天不会到来。
"No winter goes by without spring.
上海也入春了，疫情终会过去，企业、属地、政府通力合作，才是走出这波疫情阴影，恢复生产的最佳打开方式。
Shanghai has also entered the spring, the epidemic will eventually be over, enterprises, territories, the government to work together to get out of the epidemic shadow, the best way to resume production.
”采访中，一名街道招商负责人这样说道。
"said a street recruiter in an interview.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防疫=不复工？上海经验告诉你方法。
Prevention = Do not resume work? Shanghai experience tells you the way.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "防疫=不复工？上海经验告诉你方法";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; experience in Shanghai.
var msg_desc = "并非对立两端";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; not opposed to & quot;;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
