“请把我女朋友踢出志愿者群”。
Kick my girlfriend out of the volunteer corps, please.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
曹彦/ 华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院伍杨的一身“行头”几乎把整个人都吞了。
Cao Yan / Huazhong University of Science and Technology School of Journalism and Information Dissemination Wu Yang's "outfits" almost entirely swallowed up the whole body.
臃肿的棉袄外套着白色的防护服，戴着皱起来的蓝色防护手套，头顶是一个半旧棒球帽，只露出染过色的齐肩短发，透明护目镜下是两层叠加的口罩。
Oversized cotton-padded jacket in a white suit, wrinkled blue protective gloves and a half-old baseball cap, revealing only short shoulder-length hair dyed, transparent goggles and two-storey overlay of face masks.
她站在那儿握着手机打电话，声音费劲地透出来：“您好，我们是那个志愿者联盟给您这边送物资的。
She stood holding her cell phone on the phone and said in a faltering voice, "Hello, we are from the volunteer league.
”伍杨是武汉的普通居民，四十岁，家有老小。
Wu Yang is a 40-year-old ordinary resident of Wuhan.
疫情蔓延前，她曾去医院看病，与新冠肺炎疑似病人共处一室，相隔一米远，“太骇人了。
Before the outbreak spread, she went to the hospital and shared a room with a suspected New Crown Pneumonia patient about a meter apart.
”事后她感到后怕，在毫无意识和防护时，与厄运擦肩而过。
She was afraid afterwards, passing unawares and defenseless against misfortune.
武汉封城后，伍杨加入民间抗疫志愿者联盟，贡献出自己的美容院门店作为物资的临时仓库和办公点，并在后方担任纷繁琐碎的行政工作。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, Wu Yang joined the Alliance of Civic Anti-epidemic Volunteers, contributing their own beauty parlour stores as temporary stores and offices of supplies, and in the back of the complex administrative work.
她自称女汉子，泼辣，有江城人的韧劲儿，但也忙到崩溃过，晚上做噩梦。
She called herself a woman man, spiteful, with Jiangcheng toughness, but also busy until the collapse, nightmares at night.
互不相识的志愿者们在同频的节奏里处出了特殊的情谊。
The volunteers, who did not know each other, developed a special bond in the rhythm of the same frequency.
伍杨想着疫情快点结束，可以和共克时艰的同伴一起吃饭、旅游，不过先要一起抱头痛哭发泄一下，因为“真的太累了”。
Wu Yang thought the outbreak would end soon, and he could eat and travel with his difficult companions, but he had to cry out together because he was "really tired."
伍杨的自拍照。
Wu Yang's photo shoot.
本文均为受访者供图以下是伍杨的口述：突然一下封城了我是武汉本地人，在国企上班，副业经营美容院，我的门店在江汉区菱角湖万达，离华南海鲜市场很近。
All of a sudden, I am a native of Wuhan, working for a state-owned enterprise, running a beauty salon. My store is in Lingjiao Lake Wanda, Jianghan District, very close to the South China seafood market.
1月初我有点感冒，咳嗽半个月一直没好，大概五六号我就去了医院。
I had a cold in early January and coughed for half a month. I went to the hospital on May 6th.
我平时都去新华医院，（因为）人少，结果发现当时医院里已经有很多人都感冒了，注射室、走廊上到处都是人。
I usually go to Xinhua Hospital, but it turned out that there were a lot of people in the hospital and people were everywhere in the injection rooms and hallways.
医生戴着口罩，问我有没有去过华南（海鲜市场），我说没去过，但是工作在附近。
The doctor, wearing a mask, asked me if I had ever been to South China (seafood market).
医生说从我的血象看可能有点病毒感染，他当时坚持让我做CT。
The doctor said there might be a virus infection in my blood, and he insisted that I have a CT scan.
因为我本身有支气管炎嘛，所以肯定不是那个（病毒感染），我坚信自己状态很好，就拒绝了。
Because I have bronchitis of my own, so definitely not that (viral infection), I firmly believe that he is in good shape, refused.
他说你签了字才能走，让我在病历本上签字，是我本人拒绝做。
He said you had to sign before you left, so I could sign my medical record, which I personally refused to do.
后来我知道这个事情的时候就有点后悔，早晓得当时应该拍一个（CT）的。
Later I knew this thing when a little regret, already knew that should take a (CT).
当时里面有一个人是“确诊”的，中年女性，她就站在我旁边，也就一米远，你想想急诊室能有多大。
There was a man inside, a middle-aged woman, standing right next to me, about a meter away. You know how big an emergency room can be.
我看见旁边的医生手上拿着片子，检查了一大堆，医生直接跟她说你这个确诊了，肯定就是的，不要回家了，让家人给你把东西送过来，你这很严重的。
I saw the doctor next to me with the picture in his hand, he checked a lot, and the doctor told her that you were diagnosed, sure enough, don't go home, let your family deliver things to you, you are very serious.
我当时就猜想她是不是得了报纸上的肺炎。
I wondered then whether she had pneumonia in the papers.
那个时候我们不知道啊，以为是一般的病毒。
At that time, we didn't know, thought it was a common virus.
那时候说不会人传人，所以我们都没在意。
We didn't care because we said there would be no human-to-human transmission.
现在想想也是蛮骇人，跟她离这么近。
It was terrible to think of it now, so close to her.
我们单位（1月）10号还搞了羽毛球比赛。
Our unit (January) also played badminton on the 10th.
后来连续十天左右我都在忙店里装修，没有去关注这个病毒的事情，也没怎么出去。
After ten days or so I was busy decorating the shop, did not pay attention to this virus thing, and did not go out very much.
我们一家本来准备过年出去旅游的，封城的头一天，我们还在纠结要不要出去，第二天早上突然一下封城了，不让走了，我们就立马把票都退了。
Our family was going on a trip for the Spring Festival. The first day of the year, we were still wondering if we should go out.
这个事情来得太突然了，之前一点风声都没有听到。
It happened so suddenly that the wind had not been heard before.
我们就觉得，这个事态突然一下就严重了。
We felt that this state of affairs had suddenly become serious.
我们小区现在有两例（确诊/疑似），2月11日还在小区群发求助信，儿子确诊了，本来可以去火神山，但因为他妈妈还没有确诊，80多岁，很多地方不收，他就放弃了去火神山的机会，在家里陪伴他妈妈，一定要帮他妈妈找到收治住院的渠道，他才安心去治病。
We now have two cases (confirmed / suspected) in our community, February 11 in the community group sent a letter of help, the son diagnosed, could have gone to Mount Fire, but because his mother has not been diagnosed, more than 80 years, many places do not take, he gave up the opportunity to go to Mount Fire, stay at home with his mother, must help his mother find the way to hospital.
因为他知道，如果把他妈一个人丢在家里，可能后面就见不到了。
Because he knew that if he left his mother at home alone, he might not see him in the back.
他妈妈晕了两三次了，社区也很着急，要排队，没办法，像他这种情况太多了。
His mother had fainted two or three times, and the community was worried too. There was no way to line up, as he was in so many cases.
“请你把我女朋友踢出群”1月26日晚上，一个同行知道我比较爱好公益，就把我拉到“武汉抗疫志愿者联盟”群里，志愿者联盟是武汉广播电台（注：武汉市应急广播电台、武汉交通广播）主办的，有武大的同学会、一些中小企业领导等。
"Please Kick My Girlfriend Out of the Crowd" On the evening of January 26, a fellow worker, knowing that I was more pro bono, pulled me into the "Wuhan Anti-epidemic Volunteer League," which is run by Wuhan Municipal Emergency Radio Station and Wuhan Traffic Radio.
当时正好群里在招募和分配职务，问“谁的办公室可以贡献一下”。
It happened that the group was recruiting and assigning jobs, asking "whose office can contribute?"
当时很多写字楼都关门了，我（美容院）这栋楼属于公寓楼，所以我就提出来，我说我那边没问题，我的两个店，一个作为仓储，一个作为办公点，我都贡献出来。
A lot of offices were closed, I (beauty salon) this building is an apartment building, so I asked, I said I have no problem there, my two stores, one as storage, one as an office, I contributed.
第二天早上我们搞了一个发布仪式，下午就开始在这边办公了。
We had a launch the next morning and started working here in the afternoon.
最开始我们志愿者报名才16个人，三天的时间就有200个人了。
In the beginning, we signed up only 16 volunteers, and in three days there were 200.
做公益的人比较同频，其实大家互相不认识，但是既然走在一起了就互相信任。
People who do public welfare more frequent, in fact, people do not know each other, but since walk together on mutual trust.
他们做什么工作的都有，做锁匠、做建筑、做培训、做装修的都有，还有很多公司的老总。
They do everything from locksmith and construction to training and decorating to the bosses of many companies.
年轻人多一些，女性很多，基本都是在武汉生活和工作的人，就是这次封城没出去的。
Young people are more, many women, are basically living and working in Wuhan, is not out of the city.
很多志愿者为了方便做这个事情，都是独居，老婆和孩子在另外一个地方。
Many volunteers live alone, with their wives and children in another place, to make it easier.
每天回去很累，也只能吃胡萝卜、下面条，中午就是方便面。
Every day back to very tired, can only eat carrots, noodles, noodle is instant noodles.
也有瞒着家里人的志愿者。
There are also volunteers who hide from their families.
有一个男生通过他女朋友知道我们，他女朋友先进来，可能有点担心之后就没怎么出来。
There was a guy who knew through his girlfriend that his girlfriend was coming in first and probably worried a little before he came out.
然后他跑来找我说，你把我的女朋友从群里踢出去，她不让我来。
Then he came to me and said, You kicked my girlfriend out of the group, and she wouldn't let me.
我说她太爱你了，担心你的安危，你要理解她。
I said she loved you too much, and worried about your safety, you must understand her.
他说不行，我一定要出来。
He said no. I must come out.
我的同伴，我们物资组的一个成员，他说每天洗头很麻烦，因为这个病毒会附在身上，特别是他们跑出跑进的，有时候懒得戴帽子，真的蛮危险的，也比较马虎，我就给他剃了头，就像新闻里的医护一样。
My companion, a member of our supplies team, said it was troublesome to wash his hair every day because the virus stuck to them, especially when they ran out and ran in, sometimes too lazy to wear a hat.
“我是有A照的人，我不开谁开？”我们这边的任务，主要是接送医护人员上下班、给医院送物资。
"I'm the one with A-shots, who can't drive?" Our side of the mission, mainly to transport medical personnel to and from work, supplies to the hospital.
（团队里）现在跑的车大概有150多辆，运货的大概有四五十辆，有面包车、有四米二的厢式货车，各种车型都有，全是个人出，没有一分钱补贴。
There are now about 150 cars on the road, about 40 or 50 carts carrying goods, vans with vans of four metres and two, all of them personal, without a penny subsidy.
每辆车都有一个属于自己的车标，贴在车的正前方，警察一般看到都会知道我们是疫情工作者，就不会去（拦）。
Each car had its own sticker, right in front of the car, and the police generally knew we were epidemic workers and wouldn't go.
接单比较多的，我们给他们办了通行证，在交管备案，就可以允许他武汉三镇跑。
More orders, we gave them a pass, in the records, can allow him to run Wuhan three towns.
武汉抗疫志愿者联盟的疫情防控车辆拿到中心城区交通通行证。
Wuhan Anti-epidemic Volunteer Union of the epidemic prevention and control vehicles to the central city traffic pass.
我们从机场、高速路口或者是我们的仓库协助运转物资，分发到各个医院。
We help run supplies from airports, high-speed junctions, or our warehouses and distribute them to hospitals.
我有个好朋友看到我来（也加入），他来拖货，很辛苦。
A good friend of mine saw me (and joined), and he came to tow the goods. It was hard work.
从高速路口往仓库拖，又从仓库往外拖，一天来回好几趟，又当司机又当搬运。
Drag from the highway to the warehouse and drag it out several times a day, working as a driver and handler.
他早上五点起床出门，到晚上十一二点才能回家，他说他的手都抬不起来，这比上班累多了。
He gets up at five in the morning and doesn't go home until eleven or twelve in the evening. He says he can't lift his hands.
我说，“你为什么还要来开？”他说，“我是有A照的人，本来武汉封城司机就很少，我不开谁开？”基本上武汉所有的医院我们全送过（物资）。
I said, "Why do you want to drive?" He said, "I have A photo of the people, originally Wuhan closed city drivers, I can not open who?" Basically all the Wuhan hospitals we have given.
（一般）由医院发出需求，把情况说明给我们，我们会酌情根据我们的物资存储量进行分配，都是量力而为。
It is up to the hospital to give us a description of the situation, and we will allocate it according to our material storage capacity, according to our abilities.
只要是分下来的任务，缺什么差什么，我们就来查缺补漏。
As long as it is assigned to the task, what is missing and what is not good, we will check the missing.
中央电视台国际频道跟拍志愿者给四医院和儿童医院分配物资，医生正在签字确认。
CCTV International Channel and photographers are distributing supplies to four hospitals and children's hospitals, and doctors are signing on.
不仅仅是武汉，包括地市，恩施的、黄冈的，只要是有需要的，我们都送了。
Wuhan, including the city, Enshi, Huanggang, as long as there is a need, we sent.
还有社区街道，还有一线比方说火神山、雷神山这种现场，包括这次协助方舱的一些外地医疗队，我们都给他们送了生活用品和物资。
There are also community streets, such as a line of fire god mountain, thunder god mountain such scene, including this time to assist in the cabin some field medical teams, we have given them daily necessities and supplies.
2月13日，（武汉）天河机场到了七架飞机，有1600个医护人员，从不同的城市过来，饭都没吃，站在那里冷飕飕的。
On Feb. 13, 2007, seven planes arrived at Tianhe Airport, Wuhan, with 1,600 medical personnel coming from different cities. They didn't eat any food and stood there chilly.
他们有很多行李，机场的人手不够，我们就过来帮忙把这些行李运送到货车上，然后再送到他们相应的酒店，酒店会有志愿者帮忙卸行李。
They had a lot of luggage and we didn't have enough staff at the airport, so we came over and took the luggage to the van and then to their hotel, where volunteers would help unload it.
2月13日，七省市七个医疗队1600人次到达武汉支援，三十多位志愿者在天河机场协助搬运行李。
On February 13, 1600 medical teams from seven provinces and municipalities arrived in Wuhan to provide support, and more than 30 volunteers helped with luggage handling at Tianhe Airport.
“那我陪你回家吧”我们给接送医护的车做了改装，手工用泡沫板把前排和后排隔离开，为了保护他们（司机）的安全。
"Then I'll go home with you." We made modifications to the delivery car and manually separated the front and back rows with foam to protect their safety.
调度组每天会把医护的需求发到群里，哪个医院的谁要到哪个地方去，我就不断地发单子，然后司机自愿去接。
The Dispatch Team sends medical needs to the group every day, and I constantly send out lists to whoever is in the hospital and where, and the driver volunteers to pick them up.
调度组会在后台统计数据。
Movement control team statistics in the background.
司机每天很早出去，他们不想浪费自己一身的行头，觉得要多做一点事情，所以他们出去到晚上再回家，基本上一天都在路上。
Drivers go out very early every day. They don't want to waste their clothes and feel they have to do more, so they go out and go home at night, mostly on the road.
上厕所就得去找公共厕所，脱衣服也很麻烦，又怕脏，所以很多司机也是憋着，有时候开玩笑说“我膀胱要炸了”，很真实的。
Toilet to go to the public toilet, undress is also troublesome, and afraid of dirty, so many drivers are suffocating, sometimes joke "my bladder is about to explode", very real.
护士们很可爱，他们心疼司机那么早（出来）没吃早餐，就会送牛奶送面包，告诉他是从家里带出来的，是干净的，还有送巧克力送糖果的。
The nurses were lovely. They loved the driver for not eating breakfast so early. They would give him milk and bread. They told him that he had brought it from home, clean, and chocolate candy.
司机很感动。
The driver was moved.
我跟司机经常接触，很多司机都会说——我觉得接医护是个很有意思的事情。
I get in touch with drivers a lot and a lot of them say - I find it interesting to take care of them.
他们在路上会交流一些一线的事情，互相缓解，医护会讲他们穿上防护服拍抖音，会跟司机描述他们是怎么睡觉的，累了以后席地而睡。
They talk about things on the road, ease off, talk about wearing protective clothing, shake off, describe to the driver how they sleep, and sleep on the floor when tired.
其实这是互相鼓励，越聊越轻松。
In fact, it is encouraging each other, the easier the conversation.
志愿者接送医护人员，司机与医护合影。
Volunteers pick up medical staff and drivers take pictures with medical staff.
有一次（有司机）接的是金银潭传染科的一个医生，他告诉司机不要担心接医护很危险，其实是很安全的，因为他们专门有一个隔离区，洗澡、换衣服，干干净净（从医院出来）。
On one occasion, a doctor from the Department of Infections told the driver not to worry about the danger of medical attention, but that it was safe because they had a separate area where they bathed, changed clothes and were clean (came out of the hospital).
司机之间也会相互鼓励。
Drivers will also encourage each other.
每天早上出门的时候，六点多钟，他们就会在群里报到——“出发啦！”互相打个招呼，不太孤单，也就是说大家都出来了，都正在外面服务。
At six o'clock every morning when they went out, they would report to the group - "Go!" and say hello to each other, not alone, that is to say, everyone was out serving.
有时候有些护士下班下得晚，（接送的司机）说“还没回去，还在路上”，有人就会说：“那我就陪你回家吧。
Sometimes some nurses come late from work and say, "Not yet back, on the way," and someone says, "I'll go home with you.
”边开车边语音聊天。
"Driving while talking over voice.
现在路上车辆很少，聊聊天，他就不会觉得那么（孤单）。
There was little traffic on the road now, and he wouldn't feel so lonely talking.
司机和医护熟了以后可能会互加微信，提前约好时间，形成一个互动。
Drivers and paramedics who are familiar with each other may add letters to each other to make an appointment in advance to form an interaction.
有一次志愿者说，“我昨天晚上太累了，突然心里不舒服了一下，心慌。
Once the volunteer said, "I was so tired last night that I suddenly felt sick and nervous.
”我说，“实在坚持不了就休息一天，我们这不是上班。
"I said." We're not at work because we can't make it through the day.
”他说，“那不行叻，我经常接他们那几个（医护），我对线路熟。
'That's not good, 'he said.' I often pick up their [medical] ones, and I know the line.
”感觉呼吸道都被消毒了我做行政这块，负责物资的发放管理、志愿者的资料收集和报名审核，还有调度、晚上订单的汇总整理。
"I was in charge of the administration of the distribution of materials, the collection of volunteers' data and the checking of registration, as well as the scheduling and consolidation of evening orders.
伍杨与其他调度组成员正在办公点开会。
Wu Yang and other dispatch group members are meeting at the office.
因为公益这一块，有时候分得没那么细，用武汉话说，就是“把这个粑粑（注：米粑粑是武汉的一种传统小食）弄团头”，把一顿饭做好的意思，哪个地方不够圆，你就去捏一下就行了。
"This baba is a traditional snack in Wuhan." To make a good meal means to make a good meal. If the place is not round, you can pinch it.
刚开始（内勤）只有我一个女的，基本上我一个人每天在这里应付。
At first I was the only woman, basically I did it alone here every day.
我是属于女汉子类型的，前期都有点疲惫不堪，这个流程就是让人应接不暇。
I belong to the type of female men, the early stage are a bit tired, this process is to let people overwhelmed.
我每天早上大概九点多钟出门，有时候晚上十点才回来。
I go out at about nine in the morning and sometimes come back at ten in the evening.
出门以后就去办公室，消毒。
Go to the office after you go out, disinfect.
陆陆续续会有志愿者过来领物资，我们会登记和管控。
There will continue to be volunteers to collect supplies. We will register and control them.
除了接待志愿者，还有一些社区的、医院的、城管的递交情况说明，申请捐助，所以有时候突然一下会出现很多人。
In addition to hosting volunteers, there are also community, hospital, municipal management of the delivery of information, applications for donations, so sometimes suddenly there will be a lot of people.
真的是一天打乱仗，一天接待一百多个人，完全不停。
It was really a day of disruption, a day to receive more than 100 people, completely non-stop.
有时碰到中途有货要来，全部扔在门外，然后我下去把货拖上来。
Sometimes something comes along the way and I throw it all out the door, and then I go down and haul it up.
我们在18楼办公，仓库在17楼，都是靠人去搬，推车去拖。
We work on the 18th floor, the warehouse is on the 17th floor, all by hand, the trolley to tow.
一吨货可能100多箱，三四个人搬，甚至一个人搬，要搬很多趟。
A ton can be more than 100 boxes, three or four people to carry, or even a person to move, to move a lot.
有些货物是到外地的，比方说捐赠给恩施、仙桃的医院，我得开车到顺丰邮寄点去寄。
I have to drive to Shun Fung Mailing Point to deliver some goods that are out of town, such as hospitals that donate to Enshi and Xiantao.
武汉抗疫志愿者联盟接收日本湖北商会华人华侨龙舟协会爱心捐赠。
Wuhan Anti-epidemic Volunteer League received the Chinese Dragon Boat Association of Hubei Chamber of Commerce in Japan.
穿防护服会很闷，本来冬天又冷，袄子不穿也不行，把防护服一穿，然后一搬货，发一身的汗，又不敢脱，后面（汗）会自己干。
Wear protective clothing will be very stuffy, it was cold in winter, the jacket is not wearing, put on a protective clothing, and then a load, a sweat, and dare not take off, the back (sweat) will do it.
志愿者在搬运物资。
Volunteers are carrying supplies.
我戴双层口罩，里面戴一个一次性医用口罩，外面戴一个N95，里面那层四个小时换一次，耳朵勒得很疼。
I wore a double mask, a disposable medical mask, an N95 outside, and a four-hour change on the inside. My ears ached.
防护服脱穿很麻烦，所以说只要你出来，就不要想吃东西，也不要想喝水，也不要想上厕所，全部回家解决。
It's troublesome to get your suit off, so if you come out, don't want to eat or drink, or go to the toilet, just go home and fix it.
中午有别人赠送给我们的面包、牛奶、方便面，我们躲在一个房间凑合着弄一下，要不就不吃，能坚持就不吃。
We had bread and milk and instant noodles given us at noon, and we sat in a room and made do with it, or we would either eat or insist on not eating it.
一天吃不了什么东西，而且又戴着口罩、穿着防护服。
Can not eat anything a day, but also wearing a mask, wearing protective clothing.
最后累得不想说话，坐着，发个呆，休息一会儿，然后再回家。
Finally tired to talk, sit still, take a rest, and then go home.
我出去心理压力也很大，所以我回来进门之前，消毒工作从头到脚，到鞋底都不放过。
I went out with a lot of psychological pressure, so I came back to the door, disinfection work from head to toe, to the soles of the shoes.
防护服那些在楼下脱下，拿个塑料袋装起来丢到垃圾桶。
The suits were taken off downstairs, got a plastic bag and threw it in the trash.
站在门外喷消毒液，我老公拿着“枪”对着我喷，感觉我的呼吸道都被消毒了。
Standing outside the door sprayed disinfectant, my husband with a "gun" at me, feeling that my respiratory tract was disinfected.
然后把鞋子和衣服放到阳台上晾晒，秋衣秋裤虽然穿在里面，但是（由于）心理作用我要把它洗掉，每天换一套。
Then put your shoes and clothes on the balcony to dry. Autumn pants are on the inside, but I want to wash them out and change them every day.
然后洗头、洗澡、洗脸、洗耳朵、洗手，洗无数次手。
Then wash your hair, shower, face, ears, hands and hands countless times.
吃饭不跟他们一起吃，睡觉也是自己睡。
Eat not with them, sleep is their own sleep.
我两个小孩很黏我，每次回家就喊“妈妈，妈妈，回来啦”，（我说）“你们离远一点，不能亲，不能抱，不能碰”，他们就很失望，说“妈妈不喜欢我了”。
My two little kids were sticky enough to yell "Mom, Mommy, come back" every time I came home. "You stay away from me, can't kiss, can't hold, can't touch." They were disappointed and said, "Mommy doesn't like me anymore.
“谁都可能是谁的救命稻草”我从小生活在武汉，一路看着武汉的变化，从小街小巷到高楼大厦。
"Anyone can be the life-saving straw" I grew up in Wuhan, all the way to see changes in Wuhan, from small streets to high-rise buildings.
武汉人很泼辣，爱憎分明。
Wuhan people are very sharp, love and clear-cut.
那天我们给青海援助队送东西，他们说武汉人好热情，疫情过后一定要来玩一下。
That day we sent things to Qinghai Aid Team, they said Wuhan people are very warm, after the epidemic must come to play.
我说到时候我给你们做向导，带你们到处吃喝。
I said I would be your guide and take you everywhere.
我每天发（朋友）圈，不是为了宣传自己，（是）为了把这种正能量带给那些困在家里的人，让他们看一下，武汉不是没救的，不是没有人管。
I do not circulate [friends] every day to promote themselves, (is) in order to bring this positive energy to those trapped at home, let them see, Wuhan is not hopeless, is not nobody.
那天我去武昌运消毒水，路上我拍了江滩夜景发到朋友圈，龟山电视塔上面写着“武汉加油”、“中国加油”，朋友都很惊讶，竟然开灯（光秀）了，没有人出去还开灯了。
The other day I went to Wuchang to transport disinfectant water, on the way I filmed the beach night scenery sent to friends circle, Turtle Hill TV tower said "Wuhan refueling," "China refueling," friends were surprised, turned on the lights (Guangxiu), no one went out to turn on the lights.
我哪一天不发，很多朋友就问你干嘛去了，想看看你在干什么，相当于我们就成了他们的眼睛。
Many of my friends asked what you were doing and wanted to see what you were doing. It was like we were in their eyes.
伍杨跑武昌运了一车消毒水。
Wu Yang ran Wuchang to transport a load of disinfectant.
我们的志愿者平台起来了以后，很多人关心我们，会捐一些物资给我们志愿者，比方说保健品、水果、蔬菜，还有送药送艾灸，给我们排湿祛毒。
When our volunteer platform got up, many people cared about us and would donate some materials to our volunteers, such as health products, fruits and vegetables, and send medicine to moxibustion to remove moisture and dispel poison.
前几天我发朋友圈征集挂在胸前的香囊（装药粉），立马有人问我要多少个。
The other day I sent out a collection of sachets to hang on my chest, and someone immediately asked me how many I wanted.
很快就做好了，做得很精致，五十个一模一样，给我们发快递过来，一分钱都不要。
Soon it was done, beautifully done, fifty exactly alike, and it was sent to us by express, not a cent.
这个事情真的让人蛮感动。
It really touched me.
这次（抗疫）很多都是靠民间力量。
Much of this is due to civil power.
经常（有人）会评论说，“你很勇敢，你很伟大，如果不是有你们这群志愿者，很多人早就崩溃了。
Often (someone) says, "You're brave, you're great, and many would have collapsed had it not been for your group of volunteers.
”现在这个时候，人与人之间，都很无助，很恐慌，谁都（可能）是谁的救命稻草。
At this point, people are helpless and frightened, and everyone is (possibly) a lifesaver.
疫情过后，如果我们一直坚守在这个岗位，我相信我们会抱在一起哭的。
After the outbreak, if we hold on to this position, I'm sure we'll cry together.
采访：曹彦（华中科技大学新闻与信息传播学院2018级研究生）指导老师：周婷婷 张小莲戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Tingting Zhang Xiaolian, director of the 2018 Graduate School of Journalism and Information Dissemination at China Central University of Science and Technology (HUST), was here poked into Dell Chow, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“请把我女朋友踢出志愿者群”。
Kick my girlfriend out of the volunteer corps, please.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“请把我女朋友踢出志愿者群”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "Kick my girlfriend out of the volunteer corps";
var msg_desc = "疫情中的“摆渡人”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the epidemic.
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
