探访武汉被征用的酒店：这里不是污染区。
Visit Wuhan Expropriated Hotel: This is not a polluted area.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 廖艳 实习生 赵雨萌 发自武汉“这是一扇幸运之门。
Liao Yu-yan Liao, a journalist, came from Wuhan. "This is a door of luck.
”穿过走廊，梅琴指着4号电梯介绍，隔离期满的密切接触者都是从这个电梯出去的；而走楼梯下去的密接者，则意味着他们出现了症状，需要转诊，严重者可能就确诊了。
Across the hallway, Ms. Macchen points to elevator No. 4, where close contacts that expire go out of the elevator, and the passers-by who walk down the stairs mean they have symptoms that require a referral and, in serious cases, a diagnosis.
梅琴所在的隔离点是一家“旅居养老”式酒店，坐落于武汉汉南区绿地城欧洲风情小镇上，距离市中心约一小时车程。
Meichen is located in the isolation of a "long-stay" hotel, located in Wuhan Han and Southern District Green Grottoes on the European style town, about an hour's drive from the city center.
此前数日，它被征用为隔离“确诊新冠肺炎患者的密切接触者。
A few days earlier, it had been expropriated as a "close contact with people diagnosed with pneumonia."
”（简称：密接隔离点）梅琴工作的卫生院接管了密接隔离点酒店的第二、三、四层，每层19间房间，共57间房全部被征用，作为密接者的隔离房间。
The health centre where he works has taken over the second, third and fourth floors of the closely spaced hotel, with 19 rooms on each floor, for a total of 57 rooms, all of which have been requisitioned to serve as separate rooms for informants.
“现在基本上是保持‘出一个进一个’的状态。
"It's basically a matter of keeping one in and one out.
”作为隔离点负责医护工作的陈桥告诉澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn），在“应收尽收”、“应治尽治”的要求下，他们卫生院接管的两个隔离点，两三天就满员了。
Chen Qiao, who works as a health care provider at the quarantine site, told Peng Pai News (www.thepper.cn) that the two isolation points taken over by their clinic were fully occupied in two or three days at the request of "all-receivable" and "all-or-nothing" requests.
自2月3日至2月13日，他们所在的密接观察点累计接待66名密接者。
From 3 February to 13 February, a cumulative total of 66 informants were received at their close observation points.
截至2月15日，己转诊7名疑似新冠肺炎患者。
As at 15 February, seven cases of suspected new crown pneumonia had been referred.
而在他们接管疑似新冠肺炎患者隔离点的一周时间内，由于核酸检测加快以及加之临床诊断，已有十几名确诊新冠肺炎患者被转运至定点医院住院治疗。
And within a week of their takeover of the suspected New Crown Pneumonia isolation site, more than a dozen patients with confirmed pneumonia were transferred to designated hospitals because of accelerated nucleic acid testing and clinical diagnosis.
而陈桥和梅琴所希望的，是有更多的密接者能走过那扇 “幸运之门”。
What Chen Qiao and Mechen hope is that many more can pass the "lucky door".
被征用的酒店2月2日，湖北省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部印发《关于加强发热病人、发热疑似病人及密切接触者隔离救治和管理的通知》。
Expropriated Hotels On February 2, the Command of Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Hubei Province issued the Notice on Strengthening the Isolation, Treatment and Management of Fever Patients, Suspected Patients with Fever and Close Contacts.
通知提出，各市、州、县立即征用位置相对独立、对周边环境影响小、具备水电气和清洁排污保障条件的宾馆、酒店、招待所等资源，迅速改造为集中隔离点。
The circular proposes that cities, states and counties immediately requisition resources such as hotels, hotels and guest houses, which are relatively independent in location and have little environmental impact on the surrounding areas, and are equipped with water, electricity, gas and clean sewage facilities.
2月13日下午，澎湃新闻记者驱车一小时，穿过二道关卡，实地探访一家被征用的酒店——绿地康养居酒店，用作于收治密切接触者（简称：密接者）。
On the afternoon of February 13, Peng Pai journalists drove for an hour through the second checkpoint and made a site visit to the Greenfield Lodge Hotel, a requisitioned hotel, for the treatment of close contacts.
这家酒店的第二、三、四层，每层19间房间，共57间房被征用。
Nineteen rooms per floor on the second, third and fourth floors of the hotel were requisitioned.
进入酒店之前，门口有两名安保人员，一个手中拿着红外测温仪，一个拿着装满酒精的喷壶。
Before entering the hotel, there were two security guards at the door, one with an infrared thermometer and the other with a spray bottle full of alcohol.
“等等。
"Wait a minute.
”保安叫住准备进入酒店的一名男子，他拿着红外测温仪对着男子额头测了测，仪器报出男子的体温为“36.5℃”。
The guard called a man who was about to enter the hotel and took an infrared thermometer to his forehead, which gave him a temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius.
另一名保安，拿着喷壶往男子身上、鞋底喷上酒精。
Another guard, holding a spray bottle, sprayed the man with alcohol on the sole of his shoe.
随后，男子才被放行进入酒店。
The men were then released into the hotel.
马明是这家酒店的厨师长，他也临时担任起酒店的调度工作。
Ma Ming is the chef of the hotel. He also temporarily works as a dispatcher for the hotel.
马明和他的同事们会身穿防护服、N95口罩。
Mr. Ma and his colleagues will wear protective clothing and a N95 mask.
由于缺少防护手套和护目镜等防护装备，他们有些同事并没有戴护目镜。
Some of their colleagues did not wear goggles because of the lack of protective equipment such as protective gloves and goggles.
几名同事坐在前台，手中拿着对讲机，对话那头时不时传来在隔离区域医护人员的声音，将病人的需求告诉他们，然后再由他们送到缓冲区域。
Several co-workers sat at the front desk with walkie talkies in their hands, and the voice of paramedics in the isolated area was heard from time to time, informing them of the patients' needs, which they then sent to the buffer zone.
马明介绍，1月30日，酒店征集员工报名自愿参与本次疫情服务。
Ma Ming, January 30, the hotel enlists staff to volunteer to participate in the outbreak of the service.
原本酒店有26名员工，由于封城，外省不少工作人员无法回岗，目前只有12名工作人员在岗。
Originally, the hotel had 26 staff, due to the closure of the province, many staff could not return to work, only 12 staff members are currently on duty.
为了保证酒店的正常运营，工作人员没有轮班制，基本处于24小时的超负荷工作状态。
In order to ensure the normal operation of the hotel, staff do not work shifts, basically in a 24-hour overload status.
接到通知后，按照收治新冠肺炎密切接触者的要求，他们对酒店的门窗也做了相应的调整。
At the request of those in close contact with New Crown Pneumonia, the hotel's doors and windows were adjusted accordingly.
将通往步梯的门，均加了门闩，门只能由工作人员单向打开。
The door leading to the step was bolted, and the door could only be opened in one direction by the staff.
“这是为了防止密接者到处乱走。
"This is to prevent the conspirators from going about.
”马明说。
'he said.
2月3日，酒店开始接收与新冠肺炎的密切接触者。
On February 3, the hotel began receiving close contacts with Newcastle Pneumonia.
马明说，酒店仅面向与确诊新冠肺炎患者的密切接触者，自2月3日起，酒店共接收与新冠肺炎密切接触者66名，3人因为隔离期满已离开酒店，另有3人因出现发热症状被送至武汉市人民医院，现已确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Since February 3, 66 people in close contact with Newcrown Pneumonia have been admitted to the hotel, three people have left the hotel due to expiry of isolation period and three people have been sent to Wuhan People's Hospital due to fever symptoms.
截至2月13日，酒店现有48名密接者，晚上还要来3名。
As of February 13, the hotel now has 48 contacts, with three more coming in the evening.
谈及疫情期间物资采购是否有困难，马明表示，因为封城，物资采购确实有点困难，酒店每天要为100人供应餐食，需求量较大，但在努力克服物资不足的情况，尽可能保证菜品种类多样，保证每餐都是两荤两素、一汤。
As to whether there were any difficulties in procuring supplies during the outbreak, he said that because of the blockade, the hotel was in great need of food for 100 people every day. However, efforts were being made to overcome the shortage of materials, ensure as much as possible a wide variety of dishes and ensure that every meal was two meat and one soup.
酒店员工主要负责是密接者和医护工作人员餐饮和后勤工作。
Hotel staff are mainly responsible for the catering and logistics of the receptionist and medical staff.
酒店在接收密接者前就已经在房间中把相关的生活物品配齐，也配合政府做了相关预案。
The hotel has prepared a plan to complete the living things in the room before receiving the messengers.
若病人出现发热状况会联系社区送至汉南区人民医院。
If the patient has febrile condition will contact the community to send to Hannan District People's Hospital.
酒店员工肖梅说，2月6日，酒店里出现第一例确诊病例后，有工作人员开始担心自己是否会感染。
On February 6, after the hotel had its first confirmed case, staff began to worry about whether they would get infected, said Xiao Mei, a hotel employee.
其中有一名工作人员正处于哺乳期，孩子才6个月，想孩子时就只能通过视频看孩子，但为了抗击疫情，在努力调整状态，坚守岗位。
One of the staff is breast-feeding, the child as young as six months old, the child can only be seen through video, but in order to combat the epidemic, efforts are being made to adjust the state of the position.
“有些员工情绪上会些许波动，有些害怕，他们有时候会在深夜时找我聊一聊。
"Some employees are a little bit moody and scared, and sometimes they talk to me late at night.
”肖梅说。
"said Schomey.
正在送晚餐的工作人员一人一间房进入隔离区域之前，需要穿行一段缓冲隔离区域。
Workers who are delivering dinner have to walk through a buffer zone before going into the isolation area alone.
酒店内部是一个U字结构，密接者与工作人员的区域是分开的，为防止医护人员被交叉感染。
The interior of the hotel is a U-word structure, where the area between the operator and the staff is separated to prevent cross-infection of medical staff.
每个隔离者房间门上均贴有一张信息表，上面会标注姓名、性别、年龄、既往史、隔离时间等信息，以方便医护人员查体温、沟通交流。
An information sheet with information such as name, sex, age, past history, duration of isolation etc. is affixed to the door of each isolation room to facilitate medical staff to check body temperature and communicate.
房间门口放置了一张两层式的桌子，第一层放置餐食，第二层放垃圾。
There was a two-story table in front of the room, with food on the first floor and garbage on the second.
早餐一般有馒头、稀饭、鸡蛋、牛奶等餐食，午餐、晚餐可保证两荤一素，还会搭配一些水果，比如橘子、苹果。
Breakfast has steamed bread, porridge, eggs, milk and other meals, lunch, dinner can guarantee two meat one, but also with some fruits, such as oranges, apples.
住在走廊尽头的蔡洁，是其中一名被隔离的密接者。
Cai Jie, who lives at the end of the corridor, is one of the quarantined messengers.
她戴着玫红色的口罩，遮住了大半张脸，但仍可看出她眉宇之间的清秀。
She was wearing an Mae's mask, which covered most of her face, but she could still see the beauty between her eyebrows.
蔡洁的母亲被确诊患上新冠肺炎，她和父亲一同住进这家隔离酒店。
Cai Jie, whose mother was diagnosed with pneumonia, joined her father in the quarantine hotel.
蔡洁介绍，她的母亲是汉南区人民医院的一名护士，在医院上班时感染了新冠病毒肺炎。
Cai said her mother, a nurse at the People's Hospital in Hannan District, contracted pneumonia while she was at the hospital.
母亲被确诊后，2月4日，社区通知她与父亲一同来到这里进行隔离，目前尚无发热、咳嗽等症状，母亲也正在医院接受治疗，情况有好转。
After her mother's diagnosis, on 4 February, she was informed by the community that she had come to be quarantined with her father, that there were no symptoms of fever, coughing, etc., and that the mother was receiving treatment at the hospital and that the situation had improved.
“当时我妈妈在家发烧五天，第一次拍肺部CT检测时，并未检查出异样。
"My mother had a fever at home for five days and did not detect any abnormalities when she took her first pulmonary CT scan.
”蔡洁说，隔了一段时间，再次经过核酸检测以及ct检测，妈妈才被确诊。
After a period of time, after a nucleic acid test and CTT test, the mother was diagnosed, Cai said.
“我现在挺担心妈妈，毕竟她一个人在医院。
"I'm worried about Mom now, she's alone in the hospital.
”蔡洁说。
"said Cai Jie.
蔡洁是一名初中音乐教师，由于线上教学，她每天在酒店里还需要备课，准备一周一次的线上教学。
Cai Jie is a junior high school music teacher, because of online teaching, she also needs to prepare classes every day in the hotel, preparation for the weekly online teaching.
蔡洁住的是一间标准，两张床，床的对面就是窗户，父亲住在她的隔壁。
Cai Jie lived in a standard, two beds, across the bed is the window, her father lived next door.
“我待在房间不工作的时候，就会追剧。
"When I stay in my room and don't work, I go after it.
”蔡洁说，房间卫生都是自己来做清洁，她一般隔三天会把地板擦一下。
Ms. Cai says the cleanliness of the rooms is done by herself, and she generally wipes the floor every three days.
她还介绍，楼道每天都有工作人员做消毒处理，他们把垃圾放在门口，每天都有人过来清理。
She also said the aisles are sanitized every day by staff, they put the garbage in the doorway, and people come to clean it up every day.
最初，蔡洁对于新冠病毒肺炎还是很害怕的，不过现在她的情绪有所平缓。
Initially, Cai Jie was still very scared about the new crown virus pneumonia, but now her mood is somewhat calmer.
“我现在住在这里的环境挺好的，医护人员每天会给我量两次体温，酒店员工负责一日三餐。
"I'm living in a great environment. The paramedics take my temperature twice a day and the hotel staff take care of three meals a day.
”蔡洁说，但她现在挺担心妈妈，毕竟她一个人在医院。
But she is worried about her mother, who is alone in the hospital, Cai said.
根据管理要求是一人一间房，进行单独隔离，避免交叉感染。
According to the management requirements is a room per person, isolation, to avoid cross-infection.
“但实际情况，有年纪大的，有年幼的，这样就不能完全避免了，所以有时候就需要其他的人进行陪护。
"But the truth is, there are older people, there are younger ones, so it can't be completely avoided, so sometimes you need someone else to accompany you.
我们这里有一个85岁的老人，他在自理方面比较差一点。
We have an 85-year-old man who takes care of himself a little less well.
对于这种情况，我们只能允许他的孙子可以上去照顾老人。
In this case, we can only allow his grandson to go up and look after the old people.
但我们也跟他们做了很严格的要求，比如说，即使在房间之内也要戴口罩，照顾时长不要过长以及次数不要过于频繁，以避免交叉感染。
But we are also very strict with them, such as wearing masks even in the room, not too long and not too often to avoid cross-infection.
”陈桥说。
'said Chen.
隔离房间门口的小桌子24小时在线的医护人员“这里是污染区了吗？”“不，我们叫做观察区。
A small table in front of the isolation room 24-hour online paramedics "Is this a polluted area?" "No, we call it an observation area.
”护士梅琴解释说，他们只是密接者，如果叫做“污染区”，会对他们造成心理上的影响。
Nurse Megan explained that they were just informants and that if they were called a "contaminated area," it would have a psychological impact on them.
与陈桥同一所医院的护士梅琴，她也已经连续工作半个月。
With Chen Qiao the same hospital nurse Meichen, she has also been working for half a month.
今天上中班的梅琴，两小时以前，她便已经进隔离区。
Metchen was in the middle class today, two hours ago, she was already in quarantine.
梅琴穿着白色的防护服，戴着两层手套，在昏暗的走廊，一眼便可看出她。
Megan, dressed in a white suit and two gloves, could be seen in the dim hallway.
此时，她的护目镜已经起雾，说话也有点喘，透过护目镜可以看见她额头上流着汗。
By this time, her goggles were foggy and she was wheezing a little, and the sweat was streaming down her forehead through the goggles.
“（防护服）里面都是水了，在下雨。
There's water all over it. It's raining.
”梅琴喘着气说，她正准备给密接者测体温。
'she panted, as she prepared to take the receiver's temperature.
曾经抗击过非典的梅琴今年55岁，这是她当护士的第31个年头。
Megan, who fought SARS at 55, is in her 31st year as a nurse.
她说：“这场疫情是一场持久战。
"This is a protracted war," she said.
”梅琴介绍，她们每天会查房两次，4个小时换一次班，每班配备一名医生及一名护士，实施24小时值班制。
She said they check in twice a day for four-hour shifts, with one doctor and one nurse in each shift on a 24-hour shift.
梅琴说，她们每天上午9点和下午3点会为密接者量体温以及观察他们的情况变化，有出现异常的，他们会立即联系社区工作人员安排密接者及时转到发热门诊。
They take temperature measurements and observe changes in their condition at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. each day. If something goes wrong, they immediately contact community workers to arrange a referral to a fever clinic, he said.
药物方面，他们现在为密接者提供了连花清瘟胶囊。
On the drug side, they are now providing a capsule of Lianhuaqing distemper for their cousins.
此外，根据密接者情况发放适量的新型冠状病毒肺炎1号汤剂。
In addition, according to the situation of the recipients issued a new coronavirus pneumonia No. 1 soup.
等到14天隔离期过后，生命体征平稳的密接者即可转出隔离区。
After the 14-day isolation period, the vital signs of a smooth connector can be transferred out of the exclusion zone.
说到这，梅琴沿着走廊来到一个电梯门口，她指着这个4号电梯说：“这是一扇幸运之门。
"It was a lucky gate," she said, pointing to elevator No. 4 as she walked down the hallway to the elevator.
”梅琴说，隔离期满的密接者都是通过这个电梯出去的；走楼梯下去的密接者，则会意味着他们出现了症状，需要转诊，严重者可能就确诊了。
Metchen said the lifter was the elevator through which the quarantine period expired and that the passers-by down the stairs meant they had symptoms that required referral and, in serious cases, a diagnosis.
“我们希望越来越多的密接者可以从这里出去，而不是走步梯出去。
"We hope more and more informants will be able to get out of here, rather than on the steps.
”梅琴说。
'she said.
梅护士手中一直握着一个对讲机。
Nurse May was holding a walkie-talkie in her hand.
“我们一共有14部对话机。
"We have a total of 14 talking machines.
通过对讲机隔离区内外的传递信息。
Pass on information inside and outside the intercom area.
”梅琴说，密接者如果遇到什么事情，他们可以随时拨打医生值班电话。
"If something happens to them, they can call the doctor on duty at any time," he said.
布满红血丝的双眼，带着医用口罩、蓝色的头套，陈桥正拿着对讲机，在房间里与同事对接工作。
With bloodshot eyes and a medical mask and a blue hood, Chen is holding a walkie-talkie and docking with his colleagues in the room.
提起梅琴他们，顿了顿，陈桥红了眼眶，他直言：“是我亲手把他们送到一线，我始终对他们抱有感谢的态度，我唯一能做的就是做好他们的防护工作。
At the mention of them, after a pause, Chen Qiao blushed his eyes and said, "It was I who sent them to the front. I always thanked them and the only thing I could do was to protect them.
”陈桥说，1月7日，他们卫生院开始做“预检分诊”，负责发热病人的转运工作。
Chen said on January 7, their clinic began making "pre-checkups" to transfer febrile patients.
随后在“应收尽收”、“应治尽治”的要求下，他们卫生院接管的两个隔离点，一个是密接隔离点，一个是疑似新冠肺炎患者隔离点，两三天就满员了。
Then, at the request of "all-receivable" and "cure-all," the two isolation points taken over by their clinic, one close to the quarantine point and the other suspected to be the quarantine site for patients with Newcastle Pneumonia, were fully occupied in two or three days.
陈桥少则休息3小时，多则5小时。
Chen Qiao rest less 3 hours, up to 5 hours.
“同事和我一样，几乎每天都熬夜。
"My colleagues, like me, stay up almost every day.
”陈桥叹了口气说。
"said Chen Qiao with a sigh.
陈桥介绍，对于密接者以及疑似新冠肺炎患者，现在是每人一个档案，有既往病史、病情重的患者，则会重点关注。
Chen Qiao said that for the recipients and suspected patients with new crown pneumonia, is now a file per person, there has been a history of serious patients, will focus on.
其中密接点，如果出现发热病人，他们会安排发热病人转运到汉南区人民医院、亚心总医院等医院。
Where dense contacts, if fever patients, they will arrange to transfer fever patients to Hannan People's Hospital, Axin General Hospital and other hospitals.
此外，为了照顾他们的情绪，密接隔离点相应地安排了心理医生，为密接者做心理辅导。
In addition, in order to take care of their emotions, psychiatrists have been placed in close isolation centres to provide psychological support to the recipients.
梅琴也说，她们还要随时关注密接者的心理变化。
Ms. Macchen says they also need to keep an eye out for changes in the minds of their recipients.
她回忆，有一位85岁老人，老伴已经过世，他女儿说要对老人保密，因此她们在查房时就会格外注意老人的心理变化。
She recalled an 85-year-old man whose wife had passed away and whose daughter said she wanted to keep the elderly secret, so they looked out for changes in their minds when they checked in.
谈及工作是否遇到麻烦，陈桥说，他们会遇到密接者对医护人员工作不理解，密接者觉得可能隔离的时间长了，加上活动的区域只有在自己的房间，有点烦躁。
On the question of whether there were any problems with the work, Chen said they would encounter a lack of understanding on the part of informants about the work of the medical staff, the feeling of a potential isolation for a long time, and the fact that the area of activity was only in their own room, was a bit irritable.
“有时候，密接者会与医护人员会产生一些误会。
"Sometimes there are misunderstandings between the operator and the staff.
庆幸的是，基本上是言语上的冲突，也都及时解决了。
Fortunately, basically is the language conflict, also has solved in time.
我还是相信大多数人对于我们的工作是理解的。
I still believe that most people understand what we do.
”陈桥说。
'said Chen.
就在2月12日，密接隔离点有7名密接者已经解除隔离期，但是又立马住进7名密接者。
As recently as 12 February, seven informants from the close separation point had been released from isolation, but were immediately rehoused by seven informants.
现在基本上是保持“出一个进一个”的状态。
Now it's basically a matter of keeping "out one in and out."
截至2月13日，共有11名密接者平安度过隔离期，回到家中。
As at 13 February, a total of 11 informants had survived the isolation period and returned to their homes.
下午六点，梅琴脱下防护服，摘下口罩，脸上留有一道很深的印痕，她调侃自己说：“我脸上比较肉，所以容易留下痕迹”。
At six in the afternoon, Megan took off her protective clothing, took off her mask and had a deep impression on her face.
陈桥又迎来一个新的任务，他们卫生院需要再接管一个隔离点，他还在想办法解决人员安排问题。
Chen Qiao ushered in a new mission, their hospital needs to take over another isolation point, he is still trying to solve the staffing problem.
被隔离的密接者们，他们正在等待度过隔离期。
Isolated messengers, they're waiting to pass the quarantine.
14天之后，有人解除隔离，从4号“幸运之门”的电梯回家了，有的人却被转运车辆送往下一个地点，等待进一步检测。
Fourteen days later, people were unquarantined and returned home from the lift at Gate 4, while others were transported in transshipment vehicles to the next location, awaiting further testing.
工作人员正对转运车辆做消杀工作（马明、肖梅、梅琴、陈桥均为化名）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Staff are carrying out disinfection work on the transshipment vehicles (Mam, Xiao Mei, Meichen and Chen Qiao are all aliases) and have entered into a "real-time map of new cases of coronavirus infection nationwide"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
探访武汉被征用的酒店：这里不是污染区。
Visit Wuhan Expropriated Hotel: This is not a polluted area.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "探访武汉被征用的酒店：这里不是污染区";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Visit to Wuhan's expropriated hotel: This is not a polluted area & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "隔离期满，密接者们告别那台“幸运4号电梯”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
