这张防疫“黄冈试卷”，一名村医还不想打分。
A village doctor did not want to score the "Huanggang test paper" for vaccination.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 朱远祥“今年过年不串门。
Peng Pai journalist Zhu Yuanxiang "this year does not visit.
”2020年农历正月，这条醒目的红色标语一直挂在湖北黄冈市黄州区路口镇王家湾小区门口。
In the first month of the 2020 lunar month, the catchy red slogan has been hung in front of the Wang Jia Wan neighborhood in Huangzhou, Huanggang City.
“我们村很早就封闭管理了，还算比较及时。
"Our village was closed and administered a long time ago. It was fairly timely.
”2月17日，王家湾村的乡村医生涂飞告诉澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn），春节前从武汉返回王家湾村的有46人，村里的防疫压力较大，幸好全村至今无一人感染新冠病毒肺炎。
On February 17, village doctors in Wang Jia Wan told Pai Pai News (www.thepper.cn) that 46 people had returned from Wuhan to Wangjiawan village before the Spring Festival.
不过，王家湾小区里有其他村的人被确诊感染新冠肺炎，这令涂飞和村干部紧张了好一阵子。
However, other villages in the Wangjiawan district were diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, making Tu Fei and village officials nervous for a while.
涂飞是黄冈市路口镇王家湾村的乡村医生。
Tu Fei is a village doctor in Wangjiawan village, Huanggang junction town.
本文图片均由受访者提供王家湾小区是一个安置小区，王家湾村一共1605人，990人住进了该小区，从其他村安置到该小区的有211人。
All the photos in this article are provided by the interviewee. The Wangjiawan District is a resettlement area. A total of 1,605 people live in Wangjiawan Village.
在涂飞看来，黄冈官方与群众已在抗疫过程中形成良性互动，比如王家湾村的108位村民主动向医院捐了两万多元的物资。
In Tu Fei, Huang Gang official and the masses in the fight against the disease has formed a benign interaction, such as Wang Jiawan village 108 villagers volunteered to donate more than 20, 000 items to the hospital.
涂飞认为，黄冈人在这场抗疫斗争中整体上反应较快，“这几天全市的（确诊）数据在下降，说明有成效了。
Tu Fei believes that the Huanggang people in the fight against the epidemic as a whole faster reaction, "these days the city-wide [diagnosis] data is declining, indicating the effectiveness.
”作为人口数量仅次于武汉的湖北省地级市，黄冈感染新冠肺炎的人数也一度排名“榜眼”。
Huanggang, a prefecture-level city with the second-largest population after Wuhan, also made the list.
“我们绝不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉。
"We must not let Huanggang become a second Wuhan.
”湖北省长王晓东曾在1月29日的新闻发布会上说。
Wang Xiaodong, governor of Hubei province, said at a news conference on January 29.
管控升级，抗疫已成为“人民战争”。
Control has been upgraded and the fight against the disease has become a "people's war."
如何做好疫情防控的“黄冈试卷”？“哪怕数据下降了，防控力度也不能降。
How to do a good job in the "Huanggang test paper" of disease prevention and control? "Even if the data fell, the control efforts could not be reduced.
”涂飞觉得，现在还远没到可以松懈的时候。
"Tu Fei felt that now was far from enough time to relax.
在超市报警的乡村医生2月16日，温暖的阳光洒在刚经历寒潮的黄冈市黄州区街道，路边的积雪已融化。
Warm sunshine warms the streets of Huangzhou, Huanggang, just after a cold wave, as snow melts along the road.
吃过早餐的涂飞从家里出发，驾车赶往5公里外的王家湾村卫生室。
Breakfast smears leave home and drive to the Wangjiawan Village Health Room 5 km away.
“一路要经过三个关卡，都要停车接受检查。
"You have to stop at three checkpoints all the way through.
”涂飞告诉澎湃新闻，除了医务人员通行证，他还随身带着执业医师证以备检查。
Tu Fei told the stormy news that, in addition to his medical pass, he carried a medical practitioner's certificate with him for inspection.
市区的街道很冷清，一路上几乎看不到行人，只有少量驶过的物资运输车、医务车和巡逻车。
The streets of the city were deserted, with few pedestrians, only a few passing cargo carriers, medical vehicles and patrol cars.
2月17日，黄冈市黄州区东门路上，一片冷清。
Feb. 17, Huanggang Huangzhou District East Gate Road, a desolate.
“这几天管控又升级了。
"The controls have been upgraded over the last few days.
”涂飞说，中央应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组2月13日要求，孝感、黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等的隔离救治措施。
The leading group working on the new crown pneumonia epidemic asked Feb. 13 that filial piety and Huang Gang be treated in the same way as Wuhan, Tu said.
当天，黄冈市发布通告：从当日24时起，全市所有小区（居民点）一律实行全封闭管理，所有车辆从严管控。
On the same day, the city of Huanggang announced that from 2400 hours on the same day, all small areas (settlements) throughout the city will be under full closure, and all vehicles will be strictly controlled.
位于湖北东部、大别山南麓的黄冈，距武汉约80公里，是一个有740多万人口的劳动力输出大市。
Located in the east of Huanggang, south of Dabie Mountain, about 80 kilometers away from Wuhan, is a labor exporting city with a population of more than 7.4 million.
在2月1日的新闻发布会上，黄冈市市长邱丽新透露，大概有60-70万人在武汉封城之前返回黄冈，这给黄冈的疫情防控带来极大压力。
At a news conference on Feb. 1, Wanggang Mayor Qiu Lixin said about 600,000 to 700,000 people had returned to Huanggang before the city was closed, putting enormous pressure on the control of the disease.
黄冈是什么时候出现疫情的？1月21日，当地许多市民在新闻上看到了湖北省卫健委的通报：1月20日湖北省新增新冠病毒肺炎病例72例，其中武汉新增60例，黄冈新增12例。
Huanggang When did the outbreak occur On January 21, many local residents saw on the news a report from the Hubei Provincial Health Committee that 72 new cases of the new crown virus pneumonia were reported in Hubei Province on January 20, with 60 new cases in Wuhan and 12 new cases in Huanggang.
这是“黄冈”首次出现在官方的疫情通报名单里。
It was the first time Huanggang had appeared on the official outbreak alert list.
就在1月21日，官方发布通报的四天前，涂飞将待产的妻子送往黄冈市中心医院。
On January 21, four days before the official announcement, Tu Fei took his expectant wife to Huanggang Central Hospital.
第二天，妻子生下一男孩——这是涂飞夫妇的第二个孩子，全家人沉浸在新生命诞生的喜悦中。
The next day, the wife gave birth to a boy, the couple's second child, and the whole family rejoiced in the birth of a new life.
可正是妻子住院的那几天，涂飞感觉医院的气氛不对劲——陆续有疑似肺炎的患者被送来黄冈市中心医院诊治，工作人员时常对电梯、走廊等区域反复消毒。
But it was the days of his wife's stay in the hospital and he felt something was wrong with the hospital. People with suspected pneumonia were taken to the central hospital in Huanggang.
在此之前，涂飞已从网上注意到武汉疫情的消息。
Prior to that, Tu Fei has taken note of Wuhan epidemic information from the Internet.
他的妻子是黄冈市中医院一科室的护士长，虽然休产假，但她从微信群里得知医院布置防控疫情的信息。
Though on maternity leave, his wife, the head nurse of a department of Huanggang Chinese Hospital, learned from the microphone group that the hospital had put in place information to prevent and control the outbreak.
“我们陆陆续续知道一些消息，但没想到蔓延得这么快。
"We continued to learn something, but I didn't expect it to spread so fast.
”涂飞1月21日看到官方正式公布的黄冈疫情，当天他就为妻子办理了出院手续，并赶回村卫生室着手准备防控工作。
Tu Fei January 21 saw the official Huanggang outbreak, that day he for his wife to leave the hospital formalities, and rushed back to the village health room to prepare for the prevention and control.
1979年出生的涂飞，已在王家湾村卫生室工作12年。
Born in 1979, Tu Fei has been working for 12 years in the Wangjiawan Village Health Room.
乡村医生的工作很繁琐，待遇也不高，但他这些年已和村里父老乡亲有了难以割舍的亲情。
The village doctor's work was tedious and not well paid, but over the years he had developed an affinity for the villagers that he could not part with.
两年前，他甚至让学医的妹妹也来卫生室帮忙。
Two years ago, he even had his medical sister come to the clinic to help.
涂飞记得，1月23日，距春节还有两天，武汉“封城”。
Remember, January 23, two days before the Spring Festival, Wuhan "closed the city."
当天24时，黄冈也“封城”了，市区的公交、客运都停止运营。
At 24: 00 on the same day, Huanggang also "closed the city," the city's public transport, passenger transport have stopped operation.
那两天，市民上街都戴起口罩，涂飞感到周边的人对疫情开始重视起来，但许多人对防护知识缺乏了解。
On those two days, citizens wear masks on the streets and feel people around them are beginning to pay attention to the epidemic, but many people lack knowledge of protection.
正月初四，涂飞到当地一家大型超市买东西。
At the beginning of January, I flew to a local supermarket to do shopping.
他看到超市里挤满了人，大家抢着购买各种生活物资。
He saw that the supermarket was crowded with people who were scrambling to buy all kinds of things.
“人挤人，排着长队。
"There's a long line of people.
就算戴了口罩，打个喷嚏也可能感染。
Even wearing a mask, sneezing can be contagious.
”涂飞向超市人员建议疏散人群，让部分顾客在门外排队，当时忙成一团的超市人员未理会他。
The crowd was told to evacuate and some customers lined up outside the door, but he was ignored by the bustling supermarket staff.
涂飞一急，马上拨打110报警。
If you need an emergency, call 110 immediately.
警察到了后，顾客拥挤的场面有所改观，但涂飞感觉超市方面仍未真正重视。
After the arrival of the police, the scene of customer congestion has changed, but the smear feel supermarket is still not really attention.
封闭式管理的城中村2月16日，涂飞赶到王家湾村卫生室时，已经快10点了。
Closed management of the village on February 16, painted to Wangjiawan village health room, it was almost 10 o'clock.
尽管从家里到卫生室只有20分钟的路程，但涂飞到办公室之前做了两件事——帮十多位村民去药店买降血压之类的慢性病药品，还为一些村民去燃气站充值。
Though only 20 minutes from home to the clinic, Tu flew to the office to do two things - helping more than a dozen villagers go to pharmacies to buy medicines for chronic diseases such as blood pressure, and filling gas stations for some villagers.
这些成了涂飞每天的常规性工作，在药店和燃气站，有时候排队要等半个小时。
These become routine daily erasure jobs at pharmacies and gas stations, sometimes waiting in line for half an hour.
王家湾村卫生室位于王家湾小区旁边。
The Wangjiawan Village Health Room is located next to the Wong Ka Wan Community.
每天上午，涂飞将药品和燃气充值卡，从卫生室一旁的小区铁护栏，递给在小区内等候的村民。
Every morning, the medicine and gas charge card, from the side of the health room iron fence, handed to the villagers waiting in the small area.
王家湾小区位于黄冈城区东边的路口镇，是个安置小区，里面住的大部分是王家湾村人。
Wangjiawan District is located in the east of Huanggang City junction town, is a resettlement area, most of the people living in Wangjiawan village.
近年来黄冈市区向城东扩展，有1600多人的王家湾村被征收了土地，村民们陆续迁至紧挨黄冈市政务服务中心的还建小区——王家湾小区，这里成为名副其实的城中村。
In recent years, the city of Huanggang has expanded eastward, more than 1,600 people have been expropriated Wang Jia Wan village, villagers have moved to the Huanggang City Administrative Service Center also built a small district - Wang Jia Wan, which became a veritable village.
土地被征收后，王家湾村上千村民已迁至现在的王家湾小区。
After the land was expropriated, thousands of villagers from the village of Wang Jia Wan moved to what is now the Wang Jia Wan area.
2020年春节来临之际，新冠肺炎疫情的防控形势严峻起来。
As the Spring Festival approaches in 2020, the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia situation has become severe.
涂飞和村干部一起，完成了对全村人口流动情况的摸排——从武汉务工或求学回村的人，有46人。
Together with village officials, Tu Fei completed a mapping of the flow of people from Wuhan to study, 46 people returned to the village.
涂飞觉得这些人可能成为“定时炸弹”，叮嘱他们在家里进行隔离，每天测体温。
Tu Fei thinks these people may become "time bomb", tell them to do isolation at home, take temperature every day.
正月初二，王家湾村干部从镇里开完疫情防控会议回来后，采纳了涂飞的建议，对小区进行封闭式管理。
The second day of the first month, Wang Jia Wan village cadres from the town after the meeting on the prevention and control of the epidemic, adopted the proposal of smear-fly, closed management of the small area.
此后，村里46名从武汉回来的人员，被安排到黄冈的集中隔离点进行隔离观察。
Since then, 46 villagers returned from Wuhan, were arranged to Huanggang concentration isolation point for observation.
正当涂飞松口气的时候，曾在王家湾小区居住的一名外村人龙某被确诊感染新冠病毒肺炎。
Just when the soothing tone, once lived in the Wangjiawan small district of a villager Longmou was diagnosed with the new crown virus pneumonia.
涂飞了解到，六旬男子龙某是在医院照料亲戚时被传染的。
Tu Fei learned that the 60-year-old male Longmou was in the hospital to care for relatives when infected.
龙某发烧住院期间，他的妻子和儿子曾短期照料。
While Long was hospitalized with a fever, his wife and son were taken care of for a short time.
龙某被隔离治疗后，他的妻子和儿子曾回王家湾小区8栋的家中居住。
After Longmou was isolated for treatment, his wife and son had returned to live in eight homes in the Wangjiawan quarter.
很快，龙某的妻子和儿子也被隔离。
Soon, Long Mou's wife and son were also isolated.
涂飞和村干部对8栋进行封锁，楼内20多户居民在家中隔离观察。
Eight were blocked by graffiti and village officials, and more than 20 families in the building were quarantined.
此外，涂飞和村干部分成几组，多次对全村1600多人上门测体温，对全小区反复进行消毒。
In addition, smear and village cadres divided into groups, more than 1,600 people in the village home temperature testing, repeatedly disinfect the entire community.
涂飞2月17日告诉澎湃新闻，至今王家湾村没有发现一例新冠肺炎感染病例。
Tu Fei Feb 17 told Peng Pai news, so far Wangjiawan village has not found a single case of new crown pneumonia.
他看到邻村多次出现疫情，便庆幸本村及时进行了封闭管理。
He saw several outbreaks of disease in neighbouring villages and was glad that the village had closed its doors in time.
对上千人的城中村实施封闭式管理，不是一件容易的事。
It is not an easy task to implement the closed management of thousands of urban villages.
涂飞透露，一些老人在家里呆不住，常想到小区外面转转。
Tu Fei revealed that some old people can not stay at home, often want to go around the neighborhood.
村委会主任便天天在广播上喊，门卫也加强了管控。
The director of the village committee shouted daily on the radio and the doorman tightened control.
大年初二后，小区起初留了一条小门，方便一些村民偶尔到小区外的菜地里摘菜。
New Year's Day, the community at the beginning of a small door, to facilitate some villagers occasionally to the vegetable plot outside the plot to pick vegetables.
2月13日，王家湾小区和黄冈其他小区一样，管控升级，全面封闭，工作人员之外的居民一律不准进出小区。
On 13 February, the Wong Kwan neighbourhood, like the rest of the Huanggang district, was upgraded and completely closed to residents other than staff.
“你要搞好封闭管理，必须解决好两个问题，”涂飞谈起了他的经验，“一是生活物资不能断，二是居民的日常药品不能断。
"You have to solve two problems if you want to do well in closed management," Tu said of his experience. "One is that living things can't be broken, and the other is that people's daily medicine can't be cut off.
”涂飞说，王家湾村的老人小孩时常碰到生活中常见的疾病，药品主要由他来解决——有的由村医务室提供，大部分由他去外面的药店代购。
Tu Fei said the elderly and children in Wang Jia Wan often encounter common diseases in their lives and that he mainly takes care of the medicines - some provided by the village clinic and mostly bought by him from outside pharmacies.
至于居民的生活物资，起初涂飞等人会去外面超市代购，后来联系了物流人员配送，这一问题也得到解决。
As for the residents' living materials, initially smear will go to the supermarket to buy, and then contact logistics personnel distribution, this problem has been solved.
涂飞等人上门为村民测体温。
Tu Fei and other people to take temperature for villagers.
108位村民捐款：不能光靠政府王家湾村的疫情控制整体上比较平稳，但涂飞不敢松懈。
108 villagers donate: The disease control in Wang Jia Wan cannot be controlled by the government alone, but dares not relax.
每天忙碌之余，他也看新闻关注黄冈和湖北的疫情。
In addition to the daily busy, he also watched the news about the situation in Huanggang and Hubei.
“这是一场持久战呀。
"It's a protracted war.
”他说。
'he said.
涂飞的妻子在休产假，春节前，她看到黄冈市中医院的同事战斗在抗疫一线，觉得自己“闲得慌”，便和涂飞商量为医院捐款。
Before the Spring Festival, she saw her colleagues at the Huanggang Hospital fighting against the epidemic. Feeling "too busy to panic," she discussed donating money to the hospital.
“可是医院说，不接受现金捐款。
"But hospitals say they don't accept cash donations.
”涂飞告诉澎湃新闻，春节前，他了解到黄州区的医院医疗物资较紧缺，可他个人力量有限。
Tu Fei told the roar news that before the Spring Festival, he learned that hospitals in Huangzhou were in short supply of medical supplies, but his personal strength was limited.
正月初一那天下午，他在王家湾村的微信群里发起倡议——捐款购买医疗物品。
On the afternoon of the first month, he launched an initiative to donate money for medical supplies in a small group in the village of Wang Jia Wan.
涂飞带头捐了2000元，后来又捐了1000元给路口镇卫生院。
Tu Fei took the lead in donating 2000 yuan, and then donated 1000 yuan to the township hospital.
王家湾的村民在经济条件上普遍不大宽裕，土地被征收后，大部分人的收入依靠打零工。
The villagers in Wang Jia Wan are generally not well off economically, and most people rely on casual labour for their income after the land is expropriated.
不过，涂飞的倡议很快得到响应。
However, the smear initiative quickly received a response.
到了正月初二晚上，王家湾村有108位村民捐款，最少的50元，多的三五百元，一共筹集22960元。
On the evening of the second day of the first month, 108 villagers in Wong Ka Wan contributed, with a minimum of $50 and $3,500 more, raising a total of $22,960.
正月初二晚上，涂飞连夜驾车赶到170公里外的仙桃市，仙桃是我国主要的口罩生产地，他用村民捐的钱买了4000个一次性口罩、1000件医用防护服，赶回家时已是次日凌晨三点。
On the second night of the first month, Feifei drove 170 kilometers to the city of Xiantao, the country's main mask-producing area. With money donated by villagers, he bought 4,000 disposable masks and 1,000 medical suits and rushed home at 3 a.m. the next morning.
天亮后，涂飞将防护服等物资送到黄州总医院。
After dawn, the coating will be protective clothing and other supplies to the Huangzhou General Hospital.
2020年春节之际，王家湾村108位村民向医院捐款购买防护服（部分名单）。
On the occasion of the 2020 Spring Festival, 108 villagers from Wong Ka Wan Village donated protective clothing to hospitals (partial list).
“抗疫不能光靠政府，民间要行动起来。
"The fight against this disease cannot be left to the government alone.
”涂飞说，这段时间，他深切感受到黄冈人的“团结”——来自民间的力量。
During that time, he said, he had a deep sense of the "unity" of the Huanggang people - a force from the people.
“不是说政府不努力，政府是很努力，但有时光靠政府不行。
"It's not that the government doesn't try. The government works hard, but sometimes the government can't do it.
”涂飞说：“大敌当前，大家必须齐心协力。
"The enemy must work together," said Tu Fei.
”1月25日，黄冈市启用大别山区域医疗中心作为发热患者集中收治点，并要求在两天内将其改造成“黄冈小汤山”，容纳病床1000张。
On January 25, Huanggang opened the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center as a centralized treatment center for fever sufferers, demanding that it be turned into a "Wanggang Xiaotangshan" with 1,000 beds within two days.
而在“黄冈小汤山”的紧急改造过程中，上百名志愿者功不可没。
And in the "Huanggang Xiaotangshan" emergency transformation process, hundreds of volunteers have contributed.
1月26日，黄冈“90后”志愿者叶宝开始召集志愿者。
On January 26, Yip Po, a "90 plus" volunteer in Huanggang, began to gather volunteers.
当天下午，赶到大别山区域医疗中心的志愿者超过100人，大家打扫清理楼层，搬运安装病床，“没有人偷懒”。
In the afternoon, more than 100 volunteers arrived at the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center to clean the floor and move and install beds.
黄冈志愿者熊爱军组建了40多人的志愿者团队，从正月初一起，为一线的医护人员免费送盒饭超过一万份。
Huanggang volunteers Xiong Aijun set up a team of more than 40 volunteers to deliver more than 10,000 free meals to front-line medical personnel from the first day of the first month.
“我觉得这就是一战争，”熊爱军说：“大家都是战士，有相互带动的能力。
"I think this is a war," said Xiong Aijun. "Everyone is a fighter and has the ability to drive each other.
”令涂飞印象深刻的还有两件事。
Two other things have impressed Mr Tu.
一件事是关于羽绒服——大别山区域医疗中心改造成“黄冈小汤山”后，许多区域没来得及铺设暖气管网，医护人员不得不冒着严寒工作。
One thing is that after the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center was transformed into "Wangaoka Xiaotang Mountain," many areas had no time to put heating pipes in place, forcing staff to work in the cold.
于是，许多志愿者发动捐献了不少羽绒服。
As a result, many volunteers donated many down jacket.
另一件事与“老面馒头”有关。
The other thing has to do with old-fashioned steamed bread.
涂飞说，山东医疗队支援黄冈后，考虑到山东籍医护人员的饮食习惯，一些志愿者主动为他们做老面馒头。
After Shandong medical team supported Huanggang, some volunteers volunteered to make old-flour steamed bread for Shandong medical staff considering their eating habits, Tu said.
时间一长，一些商店的酵母粉也供不应求了。
Over time, some stores are running out of yeast.
“黄冈试卷”“你们以大别山革命老区人民的纯朴和善良，给医疗队员提供了强有力的后勤保障。
With the simplicity and kindness of the people in the old revolutionary area of Dabie Mountain, you have provided the medical team with powerful logistic support.
”2月9日，山东第一批援助湖北医疗队副队长丁敏给黄冈“小伙伴们”写了一封感谢信。
On February 9, Ding Min, vice-captain of Shandong's first medical team assisting Hubei, wrote a thank-you note to Huanggang's "little friends."
在此次“战疫”中，山东、湖南对口支援黄冈。
In this "epidemic," Shandong, Hunan counterpart to support Huanggang.
目前，湖南省已派出3批共474名医护人员驻守黄冈，实行“省包市、市包县”；山东医疗队则由山东省委副书记杨东奇“挂帅”，累计向黄冈派出医护人员534人。
So far, three batches of 474 medical personnel have been sent to Huanggang in Hunan Province to implement the policy of "package city and city bag county," while Shandong Medical Team is headed by Yang Dongqi, deputy secretary of the Shandong Provincial Committee, sending 534 medical personnel to Huanggang.
2月2日，在支援黄冈的第8天，山东中医药大学第二附属医院的医师孙宪洁终于有时间与女儿视频通话。
On February 2, 8 days after supporting Huang Gang, Sun Xianjie, a physician at the Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong University of Chinese Medicine, finally had time to talk to her daughter on video.
得知妈妈在湖北黄冈，8岁的女儿问她：“黄冈不是有那种试卷吗？”孙宪洁笑了，“是有一种黄冈试卷，妈妈得考个满分再回家！”在中小学阶段，国内许多地方的孩子对“黄冈试卷”印象颇深。
When she learned that her mother was in Huanggang, Huanggang, 8 years old, asked her, "Isn't there such an examination paper in Huanggang?" Sun Xianjie smiled. "There is a kind of Huanggang exam paper.
上世纪八十年代以来，黄冈中学一度成为全国最有名的“高考工厂”，《黄冈密卷》等辅导资料曾受到众多高中学子的青睐。
Since the 1980s, Huanggang High School has once become the country's most famous "college entrance examination factory," such as "Huanggang secret volume" and other guidance materials have been favored by many high school students.
包括孙宪洁在内的许多奋战在黄冈一线的抗疫人员，把这场疫情防控当成做“黄冈试卷”。
Sun Xianjie, including many fighting in the Huanggang line of anti-epidemic personnel, as this epidemic prevention and control as "Huanggang test paper."
而从实际情况来看，答好这张试卷显然存在难度。
From the actual situation, it is obviously difficult to answer this paper.
1月21日至2月2日，黄冈市每日新增的新冠病毒肺炎病例，在全省13个地级市州中仅次于武汉；至2月4日，黄冈市累计报告病例1645例，仍居全省第二。
From January 21 to February 2, the city of Huanggang added daily cases of the new crown virus pneumonia, second only to Wuhan in 13 prefectures; by February 4, Huanggang had reported 1,645 cases, still the second highest in the province.
一时间，坊间对黄冈疫情有“第二个武汉”的忧虑。
For a while, there was concern about the "second Wuhan" outbreak in Huanggang.
“去黄冈后才发现，疫情比想像的严重很多。
"It took a trip to Huanggang to find out that the outbreak was much more serious than expected.
我个人认为，比武汉严重。
Personally, I think it is more serious than Wuhan.
因为武汉虽然病人多，毕竟资源也丰富。
Because Wuhan although the patient is many, after all the resources are also rich.
”湖南衡阳市驰援黄冈的医疗队队长刘军曾向媒体表达他的担忧。
Liu Jun, head of the medical team that helped Huang Gang in Hunan province, expressed his concern to the media.
的确，从医疗条件来看，黄冈远远落后于武汉。
Indeed, in terms of medical conditions, Huanggang lags far behind Wuhan.
目前，人口超过740万的黄冈市仅有两所三甲医院——黄冈市中心医院和黄冈市中医医院。
There are only two triple-A hospitals in the city of Huanggang, with a population of more than 7.4 million - Huanggang Central Hospital and Huanggang Hospital.
医疗设施落后的背后，是经济基础的相对薄弱。
Behind the backwardness of health facilities is the relative weakness of the economic base.
根据湖北省统计局公布的数字，黄冈市2018年的地区生产总值为2035.2亿元，居全省第五；而黄冈市当年的人均GDP是32124元，在全省倒数第二，仅高于恩施州，还不够全省人均GDP的一半。
Huanggang's 2018 gross domestic product was 203.52 billion yuan, the fifth-largest in the province, according to figures released by the Hubei Provincial Bureau of Statistics.
汹涌的疫情之下，落后的医疗设施、薄弱的经济基础，显然给疫情防控这份“黄冈试卷”增添了难度。
Beneath the raging epidemic, backward medical facilities and a weak economic foundation, it is clear that the disease prevention and control of this "Huanggang test paper" added difficulties.
根据1月23日黄冈市公布的疫情防控数据，黄冈市城区和下辖的七县二市，仅有29个发热门诊、13家定点医院，其中市城区只有3个发热门诊、3家定点医院，这显然不足以应对蔓延的疫情。
According to data released by the city of Huanggang on January 23, there are only 29 fever clinics and 13 designated hospitals in the city's urban areas and seven counties under its jurisdiction. Of these, only three are hot clinics and three are designated hospitals, which is clearly insufficient to deal with the epidemic.
直到1月28日晚，黄冈版“小汤山”——大别山区域医疗中心启用，黄冈的病例收治困境才有所缓解。
Until the evening of January 28, the Huanggang version of "Xiaotangshan" - Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center opened, Huanggang's case treatment difficulties were alleviated.
此后，经过紧急征用、改造，全市的发热门诊扩增到 127个，定点医院有了30家。
Since then, as a result of emergency requisition and renovation, the number of fever clinics has increased to 127 and the number of designated hospitals to 30.
2月9日，中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理孙春兰来到黄冈后强调，黄冈医疗救治条件较弱，要落实区域联防联控，“把关口前移”。
On February 9, Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, a member of the Politburo and Vice Premier of the State Council, came to Huanggang to stress that medical treatment in Huanggang was weak.
2月11日，黄冈市委书记刘雪荣在新闻发布会上介绍，全市已在全面排查的基础上“构筑联防联控防线”。
February 11, Huanggang party secretary Liu Xueyong at a press conference, the city has been in the comprehensive inventory of the basis of "construction of joint defense line."
他还表示，要用“最严监督”和“最严问责”，督促全市党员干部履行职责。
He also said that "the strictest supervision" and "the strictest accountability" to urge the city's party cadres to perform their duties.
在此之前，据市长邱丽新通报，疫情发生以来黄冈市处理处分党员干部337人。
Prior to this, according to Mayor Qiu Lixin, Huanggang City since the outbreak of the treatment of 337 party cadres.
其中，网友称之为“一问三不知”的黄冈市卫健委原主任唐志红被免职。
Among them, netizens call "inquisitive three do not know" Huanggang city health care committee former director Tang Zhihong was dismissed.
各项举措之下，黄冈的疫情防控形势逐渐好转。
Under various measures, the situation of prevention and control of the epidemic in Huanggang gradually improved.
2月5日之后，黄冈每日新增病例和累计报告病例，均次于武汉和孝感。
After February 5, Huanggang daily new cases and cumulative reported cases, are second only to Wuhan and filial piety.
湖北省卫健委公布的数字显示，截至2月16日24时，黄冈市累计报告新冠肺炎病例2831例，而当天新增病例的数字已降至8例。
As of 2400 hours February 16, 2,831 new cases of crown pneumonia had been reported in Huanggang city, while the number of new cases fell to eight, according to figures released by the Hubei Wei Health Commission.
“我觉得我们已经很尽力了。
"I think we've done our best.
”有12年乡村医生经历的涂飞对澎湃新闻说，黄冈的基础条件较差，疫情前期受到定点医院少、病例确诊周期长等因素的制约，但黄冈人在抗疫中已形成官方与民间的良性互动，“这点很难得”。
A 12-year-old village doctor told the roar news that Huanggang's basic conditions were poor, that the pre-epidemic period was limited by a small number of designated hospitals and a long period of case diagnosis.
采访中，涂飞拒绝为疫情防控这份特殊的“黄冈试卷”打分，他觉得为时尚早，“数字降下来了，但还放松不得”。
In the interview, Tu Fei refused to control the outbreak of this special "Huang Gang test paper" scoring, he felt it was too early, "the number down, but not relaxed.
本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
This issue editor Chang Chen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这张防疫“黄冈试卷”，一名村医还不想打分。
A village doctor did not want to score the "Huanggang test paper" for vaccination.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "这张防疫“黄冈试卷”，一名村医还不想打分";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by a village doctor.
var msg_desc = "报警、“封村”、募捐";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; alarm, "village closure," and collect & quot;;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
