“收留”回不了家的武汉人。
"Take in" the Wuhan people who can not go home.
杜茂林。
Du Maolin.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲四川省巴中市巴州区，一辆鄂A车牌（武汉）轿车的车窗上，贴着红岩社区加盖公章的证明，称车主无感冒发烧现象，且正在家自行隔离。
A car with an E-E license plate (Wuhan) is affixed to the window of a red-rock community in Bazhong, Sichuan Province, saying the owner has no cold or fever and is isolated at home.
（杜茂林/图）全文共4201字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(Photo / Du Maolin) The full text is 4201 words and takes about 8 minutes to read.
截至1月26日15时，广东湛江徐闻县这家有一百多个房间的酒店，已接待湖北籍旅客81人。
As of 1500 hours January 26, Guangdong Zhanjiang Xu Wen County, a hotel with more than 100 rooms, has received 81 visitors of Hubei nationality.
滞留各省的湖北人建起的微信群里，人们分享消息，互相鼓劲，又诉说着“无处可去”的危机。
Hubei people in the remaining provinces set up a small group of messages, people share information, encourage each other, and say "nowhere to go" crisis.
一位朋友伸出援手。
A friend reached out.
他回了老家，成都的房子空了出来，免费借给这对母女住宿。
He returned to his hometown, and the house in Chengdu became vacant and was lent free of charge to the mother and daughter.
照顾周到，还买了血氧仪和体温计。
Careful care, but also bought a blood oxygen instrument and thermometer.
“偷偷借我们住的。
"He borrowed it from us secretly.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 杜茂林南方周末特约撰稿 蒋芷毓责任编辑 | 吴筱羽电话那头传来疲惫的声音。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2020年1月26日下午，大年初二，直到下午5时， 广东湛江徐闻县防控工作领导小组办公室的咨询电话终于拨通了。
January 26, 2020 afternoon, about 2 years, until 5 p.m., Guangdong Zhanjiang Xu Wen County Leading Group Office of the prevention and control work of the telephone finally dialed.
工作人员介绍，1月25日开始，县政府为湖北籍旅客提供了一家专门用来集中进行医学观察的酒店，一天多里打电话来咨询的人太多了。
Since January 25, the county has provided a hotel for Hubei tourists to concentrate on medical observation, and too many people have been calling for advice for more than a day, staff said.
有询问酒店住宿情况的，有打听隔离天数的。
There are enquiries about hotel accommodation, some about the number of days of isolation.
根据上述工作人员的说法，截至1月26日15时，这家有一百多个房间的酒店已经接待湖北籍旅客81人。
According to the staff, as of 1500 hours on January 26, the hotel, which has more than 100 rooms, had received 81 visitors from Hubei province.
他们的目的地多为海南，徐闻则是自驾经琼州海峡渡海前往海南的必经之地。
Their destinations were mostly Hainan, and Xu Wen was the only way to cross the Channel to Hainan by himself.
除了酒店，当地政府还免费提供饮食和其他服务，由政府工作人员值守，一旦发生疫情，能及时送往相应的医院。
In addition to hotels, the local government provides meals and other services free of charge, manned by government staff, and can be sent to appropriate hospitals in the event of an outbreak.
这种模式逐渐被不少地方采用。
This model is gradually being adopted in many places.
1月26日晚，武汉市市长周先旺在新型肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上表示，因春节和疫情的因素，有五百多万人离开了武汉。
On the night of January 26, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang told a news conference on the prevention and control of the new pneumonia epidemic that more than five million people had left Wuhan because of the Spring Festival and the outbreak.
第一财经新一线城市研究所引用的迁徙大数据显示，1月10日至1月22日春运期间（武汉封城之前），从武汉出发的人有六至七成前往了湖北省内其他城市，其次是河南省、湖南省、安徽省、重庆市、江西省。
According to big migration data cited by the First Financial and Economic Research Institute, between January 10 and January 22 (before the city was closed in Wuhan), 60 to 70 percent of the people from Wuhan travelled to other cities in Hubei Province, followed by Henan Province, Hunan Province, Anhui Province, Chongqing City and Jiangxi Province.
当中，有人早早离汉过节回不去，有人“封城”前出走。
Among them, some early leaving Han Festival can not go back, some "closed" before the departure.
这些“流落”各地的武汉人乃至湖北人，因为突然而至的严重疫情，都在经历着一些难以言说的苦闷。
These "wandering" all over Wuhan and even Hubei people, because of the sudden arrival of a serious epidemic, are experiencing some untold suffering.
1藏不住的身份24日下午，也就是除夕当天，一个在陵水县开酒店的湖北老板接待了12个饥肠辘辘的老乡。
On New Year's Eve, a Hubei boss who owns a hotel in Lingshui County received 12 hungry villagers on the afternoon of the 24th.
8天前，他们经琼州海峡渡海抵达海南，开始一场策划了两个月的春节自驾旅行。
They crossed the Channel to Hainan eight days ago and began a two-month self-drive for the Spring Festival.
3个家庭盼着一个温暖的春节假期，尽管途中不时有武汉疫情的消息传来，但一切都还在按计划进行。
The three families looked forward to a warm spring festival, and although news of the Wuhan outbreak came from time to time, everything was going according to plan.
直到1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布“封城”。
Until the early morning of January 23, Wuhan announced the "closure".
此距医学期刊《柳叶刀》披露武汉首例不明原因肺炎病例于2019年12月1日发病，过去了52天。
The first case of unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan was reported in the medical journal Lancet on December 1, 2019, 52 days later.
“封城”消息传遍全国。
News of the "closure" spread throughout the country.
当天一早，陵水县一家酒店便以“有规定”为由，婉拒了一行人的入住。
Early that day, a hotel in Lingshui County declined the admission of a group of people because of "regulations."
酒店告知他，接到了当地派出所的文件，要求他去派出所报备，还需去医院检查开证明。
The hotel informed him that it had received documents from the local police station, asking him to report to the police station, but also to go to the hospital to check on the certificate.
在陈江对南方周末记者的讲述中，他咨询陵水县英州镇派出所，只需要向当地报备即可。
In Chen Jiang told Southern Weekend reporter, he asked Lingshui county police station, only to report to the local.
一边是数量不断攀升的确诊病例，一边是当地群众的紧张情绪，尽管现在多地已有定点接待单位，但其他大多数酒店都不愿意承担收留武汉人的风险。
On the one hand is the rising number of confirmed cases and on the other hand the tension among the local population. Although there are now many designated reception units, most other hotels are reluctant to take on the risk of accommodating Wuhan residents.
接下来，他一个接一个电话，打了不下二十个。
Then, one after another, he made no less than twenty calls.
这天之前住过的酒店、民宿乃至小区全都拒绝。
Hotels, lodgings and even communities that lived before the day refused.
去酒店、餐馆，服务员本来笑呵呵，一听是武汉来的，脸立马就垮了下来。
To hotels, restaurants, waiters were originally smiling, a listen is from Wuhan, the face immediately collapsed down.
除了直接拒绝，也有变相抬价。
In addition to direct rejection, there are disguised price increases.
陈江为三家人找了一个房子，月租一万多，但旅游平台上的标价却是7000元， “能住下来已经不错了”。
Chen Jiang found a house for three people, rent more than 10, 000 a month, but the price on the tourism platform is 7000 yuan, "can live not bad.
然而，业主又变卦了，理由是小区其他人不同意武汉人来住。
However, the owner changed his mind again, on the grounds that other people in the community did not agree to Wuhan people living.
“那些老太太、老大爷看见我们的车停在小区外面，就直接把我们的车的牌照拍下来，发到群里面，问这是谁家的，别让他进来。
"When the old ladies and grandfathers saw our car parked outside the neighborhood, they took a picture of the license plate of our car and distributed it to the group.
”旅行成了“流浪”。
Travel has become "vagrancy."
一行12人，年龄最长的73岁，年纪最小的不到3岁。
A party of 12, the oldest 73 years old and the youngest under 3 years of age.
老人变得爱发脾气，怀中的孩子哭闹不停。
The old man became angry and the child in his arms cried.
他一度要让老人、妇女待在车上，和朋友在街上游荡寻找，终于吃上一顿饭。
At one point, he would let old people and women stay in the car, roam the streets with friends, and finally have a meal.
最终辗转联系上湖北老乡开的酒店，为了避免惹麻烦，老板隐瞒了有武汉人住店的信息，并提供了酒店最顶层的3间客房。
To avoid trouble, the boss concealed information about the Wuhan people's hotel and offered three rooms on the top floor of the hotel.
终于有了落脚点，陈江又主动向英州镇派出所备了案。
Finally had the foothold, Chen Jiang again took the initiative to the English town police station prepared the case.
此时，全国收到的累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例已经1287例。
At this time, the cumulative number of reported cases of new coronavirus infection confirmed pneumonia has been 1287 cases.
鄂A车牌扎眼，陈江不敢停在酒店里，而是停在了不远处一条街上，用纸遮挡车牌，但很快就招来了交警，又只好作罢。
Hubei A plate piercing, Chen Jiang dare not stop in the hotel, but stopped not far from a street, with paper to block the license plate, but soon attracted traffic police, had to stop.
结果，除夕深夜，长长的汽车警报声划破海南陵水县温暖的夜空。
As a result, late at night, long car alarms ripped through the warm night sky in Hainan's Lingshui County.
陈江惊醒，这声音再熟悉不过，他意识到，车被“砸”了。
Chen Jiang woke up, the sound of the familiar, he realized that the car was "smashed."
他迅速起床，跑到阳台，远眺。
He got up quickly, ran to the balcony and looked out.
夜色昏暗，他看不清具体发生了什么，只听到孩子的哄笑声此起彼伏，人群中有人高喊“这是武汉车”。
It was dark and he could not see what had happened, except for the laughter of the children, who shouted, "This is Wuhan."
陈江只能报以苦笑，等到哄笑声散去，才重新进入被窝。
Chen Jiang can only return with a bitter smile, until the laughter dissipated, before re-enter the bed.
第二天一早一看，好在车身只是挂上了小孩的脚印，留下些许擦痕，“没什么大问题”。
The next morning to see, but only hung the body of children's footprints, leaving a few scratches, "nothing serious."
“没什么大问题”，这几天常挂在陈江嘴边。
"There is no big problem," often hang in the mouth of Chen Jiang these days.
“如果不是因为你们离开武汉快14天了，我也不敢收留你们。
"If it hadn't been for the fact that you had been away from Wuhan for nearly 14 days, I wouldn't have dared to take you in.
”酒店老板说，并婉拒了陈江提出可否“收留”更多老乡过来的要求。
The hotelier said and declined Chen Jiang's request to "take in" more villagers.
更多寻找落脚点的老乡，是陈江在滞留各省的湖北人建起的微信群里认识的。
More looking for a foothold, Chen Jiang in the remaining provinces of Hubei people set up in the micro-letter group.
群里，人们分享消息，互相鼓劲，又诉说着“无处可去”的危机。
In the group, people share news, encourage each other, and talk about a "nowhere to go" crisis.
在川渝旅游的女生小艺同样“人在囧途”。
Girls traveling in Sichuan and Chongqing are also in trouble.
她和母亲1月19日从武汉到了重庆，重庆此时还未公布一例病例。
She and her mother arrived in Chongqing on January 19th from Wuhan, where no case has been reported.
22日，母女俩到了成都，封城消息传来，25日晚上回武汉的航班被取消。
22, the mother and daughter to Chengdu, the news of the closure of the city, 25 night flight back to Wuhan was cancelled.
她们准备继续住民宿，对方却突然不让住了。
They were going to stay in the house, but the other side suddenly stopped them.
小艺此后打遍了文化和旅游局、防疫站、市长热线电话。
Xiaoyi has since hit the Culture and Tourism Bureau, anti-epidemic stations, the mayor's hotline.
后来相关部门通知可以入住全季酒店，但她们到达后，全季酒店也不让住了。
Later the relevant departments advised that they could stay in the hotel all season, but after their arrival, the hotel was not allowed to stay.
南方周末记者致电该全季酒店，前台工作人员表示，由于入住了武汉人，被其他客人投诉酒店，明天酒店就停业了。
Southern Weekend reporter called the hotel, front desk staff said, as a result of the occupancy of Wuhan, other guests complained about the hotel, the hotel closed tomorrow.
“因为没有规定不让武汉人住，我们还是给她们办了入住，后来就被投诉了。
"We checked in because there was no rule against Wuhan people, so we were later sued.
”根据工作人员的说法，这批准备入住的武汉客人量体温的结果是正常的，但可能在社区检查时被其他客人看到，“武汉人”身份就藏不住了。
According to the staff, the results of temperature measurements by the would-be Wuhan guests were normal, but could have been seen by other visitors during a community check-up.
“客人有他们的顾虑，我们夹在中间也很为难。
'Guests have their concerns, and we're in the middle.
”所幸，一位朋友伸出援手。
Fortunately, a friend helped.
他回了老家，成都的房子空了出来，免费借给这对母女住宿。
He returned to his hometown, and the house in Chengdu became vacant and was lent free of charge to the mother and daughter.
照顾周到，还买了血氧仪和体温计。
Careful care, but also bought a blood oxygen instrument and thermometer.
“偷偷借我们住的。
"He borrowed it from us secretly.
”小艺很感激。
"Xiao Yi was grateful.
2020年1月27日，小艺在成都的临时住处附近的生鲜超市买菜，发现货架已被抢购一空 （受访者供图/图）2“难听的话越来越多”在这场疫情防控战中，先是武汉人，继而整个省的人，到最后生活在这片土地上的每个人，都被一种不可抗拒的力量拉扯着。
On January 27, 2020, Xiao Yi was buying vegetables at a fresh supermarket near his temporary home in Chengdu and found that shelves had been snapped up. 2 "More and more bad words" were being pulled by an irresistible force in the battle against the epidemic, first by the Wuhan people, then by the whole province, and finally by everyone living on the land.
即便在自己家中，也有人因湖北人的身份而遭受前所未有的煎熬。
Even in their own homes, some people because of Hubei identity and suffered unprecedented suffering.
王肖一家在成都待了快十年，1月19日，王肖的母亲从湖北孝感经武汉到了成都，和女儿团聚过年。
Wang Xiao's family stayed in Chengdu for nearly 10 years, January 19, Wang Xiao's mother from Hubei filial piety through Wuhan to Chengdu, and her daughter reunited for the New Year.
母亲是第二次来成都，相比于上一次留下的好印象，这次她很快感受到了紧张气氛。
Her mother came to Chengdu for the second time, and this time she quickly felt the tension compared with the good impression she had made the previous time.
转折同样发生在1月23日凌晨，武汉“封城”。
The turn also took place in the early hours of January 23, Wuhan "closed city."
至此，很多人对疫情的感知才突然变得强烈。
As a result, many people's perception of the epidemic suddenly became intense.
一天以后，四川省启动突发公共卫生事件一级应急响应，1月25日晚，四川省政府办公厅印发《应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情I级响应措施》并公布。
A day later, Sichuan Province launched a first-level emergency response to a public health emergency. On the night of January 25, the Sichuan Provincial Government's office issued the "Response Level I to the pneumonia epidemic in response to a new coronavirus infection."
有关疫情的真假难辨的消息传遍大街小巷，在王肖居住的小区，尴尬也随之而来。
False information about the outbreak spread through the streets, and embarrassment ensued in Wang Xiao's neighborhood.
业主群里有人透露了王肖的母亲刚从湖北过来，群里瞬间就炸开了锅。
Owners group revealed that Wang Xiao's mother just came from Hubei, the group immediately burst the pot.
王肖能理解其他住户的担忧，起初并没有回应。
Wang understood the concerns of other households and did not respond at first.
社区的要求很清楚，有疑似症状的才隔离，没有的自己在家隔离观察14天。
The community requirements were clear, with suspected symptoms of isolation, not their own home observation for 14 days.
1月26日，王肖向社区和物业报备了自家情况。
On January 26, Wang Xiao reported his family to the community and the property.
当天下午，3名穿着防护服的社区医院医生便到了小区，前往她家询问情况，测量体温。
That afternoon, three community hospital doctors in protective clothing went to her house to ask about the situation and take temperature.
一切登记检查完毕后，医生让他们自行隔离，随后离开。
After all the check-ups had been completed, the doctor told them to isolate themselves and then left.
就是这短短的二十多分钟，救护车进小区的消息传遍了，最终传到王肖家时，成了“小区某住户被传染”。
This short more than 20 minutes, ambulance into the community of news spread, eventually spread to Wang Xiao's house, became a "residential infected."
业主群里只有物业管家试图解释，但疫情未减的当下，再多的解释也显得苍白无力。
Only the housekeeper in the group tried to explain it, but with the epidemic undiminished, no amount of explanation could be more paltry.
“难听的话越来越多。
"More and more bad words.
”王肖说，为了避免不必要的麻烦，从26日开始，同住一个小区的公公婆婆也不聚在一起，到用餐时，用饭盒装好饭送到她家。
"To avoid unnecessary problems, Wang said parents-in-law who lived in a small area didn't get together and packed lunch boxes to be delivered to her home from the 26th.
也就是在这天，多份武汉返乡人员的个人信息统计表流传出来。
That is, on this day, a number of Wuhan returning personnel personal information statistics spread out.
多地武汉返乡人员配合调查后，个人信息被泄露，包括姓名、家庭住址、电话、身份证号、返乡车次，甚至高考成绩等信息，记载上述信息的表格在各个老乡群和小区群里传播，不少人被陌生人骚扰。
Many Wuhan returnees have cooperated with the investigation and their personal information has been divulged, including names, family addresses, telephone numbers, personal identification numbers, number of return trips and even college entrance examination results. Forms recording the above-mentioned information have been disseminated in various townships and small communities, and many people have been harassed by strangers.
王肖不免悲愤。
Wang Xiao could not help being indignant.
在她看来，配合体检、如实填报个人消息无可厚非，但有关部门的精细管理又在哪里呢？“如果我说我在家已经隔离了14天，但谁又可以证明？当我们隔离期满，到小区活动，万一真的有其他人被感染了，我有100张嘴也说不清，谁知道他在哪里被传染的？”就这些问题，南方周末记者1月27日致电成都锦江区某社区工作人员，对方称，目前配套措施的确没有跟上。
"If I say I've been isolated at home for 14 days, who can prove it?" I have 100 mouths to tell if anyone is really infected, "Southern Weekend reporter told a community worker in Chengdu on January 27 that the accompanying measures had not kept pace.
“社区就这么几个人，负责的小区这么多，人口基数这么大，怎么顾得过来？”3政府指定住宿在这场意外而无奈的“流浪”里，有人连遭冷遇，有人则要幸运一些。
"The community is so few people, responsible for so many small areas, so large a population base, how can care over?" 3 The government designated accommodation in this unexpected and helpless "vagrant", some people have been cold-shouldered, others more fortunate.
连日来，杭州阴雨不断。
For days, it rained in Hangzhou.
距离从新加坡飞来的TR188次航班降落杭州萧山机场已过去四天。
Four days have passed since the arrival of flight TR188 from Singapore at Xiaoshan Airport in Hangzhou.
1月24日那天，由于武汉“封城”，新加坡飞往武汉的航班被取消，有116名武汉人改签乘坐该航班飞往杭州。
On January 24, due to the Wuhan "closure", Singapore's flight to Wuhan was cancelled, 116 Wuhan people re-signed to fly to Hangzhou.
飞机着陆后，2名发烧乘客即送至萧山区第一人民医院，其余武汉乘客在机场宾馆就地隔离，219名其他乘客在市委党校集中医学观察。
After landing, the two feverish passengers were taken to Xiaoshan First People's Hospital. The remaining Wuhan passengers were quarantined at the airport hotel, and 219 other passengers gathered for medical observation at the municipal Party School.
据媒体报道，离上述市委党校约1公里外还开辟出一处家属接待区，成为连通留观人员和家属的一扇门。
According to media reports, a family reception area has been opened about 1 km from the above-mentioned Party School, serving as a door for connecting visitors and family members.
报道提及该集中观察点24小时有人值守，机器人送餐。
The report mentions that the center is manned 24 hours a day, with robots delivering meals.
再往南，福建厦门市政府将鼓浪屿上所有武汉旅客迁移出岛，安置酒店隔离观察。
Further south, the Fujian Xiamen City government will be Gulangyu all Wuhan visitors out of the island, the hotel isolation observation.
广东、云南、海南也相继发布公告，为旅行在外的湖北游客提供帮助。
Guangdong, Yunnan and Hainan have also issued announcements to provide assistance to Hubei tourists traveling outside.
1月27日，武汉市文旅局发布《致兄弟城市旅游行业同仁的一封信》，信中提到，截至目前，尚有4096名武汉游客仍在境外。
On January 27, the Wuhan Bureau of Culture and Tourism issued a letter to colleagues in the tourism industry of fraternal cities, in which it was mentioned that 4,096 Wuhan tourists were still outside China.
信中特意请求，“兄弟城市文化和旅游部门继续给予大力协调和排忧解难，对所有在外旅行的武汉市民给予必要的帮助，让他们更深切地感受到兄弟城市的温暖和关爱”。
The letter specifically requested that "the cultural and tourism departments of the brotherly cities continue to provide great coordination and relief, and give necessary help to all the citizens of Wuhan who travel abroad so that they may feel the warmth and care of fraternal cities more deeply."
民间力量也发挥着作用。
Civil forces also play a role.
有人腾出地方义务收留，有人整理可住的酒店地址，有人帮忙联系回家的车辆。
Some people make room for local volunteers, others arrange hotel addresses where they can stay, and some help to contact the vehicles that come home.
但在此之前，一些人在朋友圈留下一句“或许我这辈子都不会再来这里”，便已踏上了回乡的路。
But before that, some people left a line in their circle of friends saying, "Maybe I'll never come here again" and set out on their way home.
陈江特别关注各地政府的举措，他有些疑虑：政府公布的信息是否能更透明具体，比如酒店的费用、14天隔离时间怎么计算，酒店的卫生环境如何。
Mr Chen, who is particularly concerned about government initiatives, has some doubts about whether the information the government publishes will be more transparent and specific, such as the cost of a hotel, how the 14-day isolation period is calculated, and how hygienic the hotel is.
他也担心，这么多湖北人待在一起，隔离在一家酒店，如果混有潜伏期携带病毒的人，其他人反而会被感染。
He is also concerned that so many Hubei people stay together, isolated in a hotel, and that if there is a latent period of people carrying the virus, others will be infected.
“网上到处都是‘武汉加油’，但当具体到武汉人，这似乎只是一句口号。
"Wuhan refueling is everywhere on the Internet, but when it comes to Wuhan people, it seems to be just a slogan.
”陈江说。
"said Chen Jiang.
最初的计划里，陈江打算年初四回到武汉，1700多公里的旅程，平常开一天一夜就能到达。
According to the original plan, Chen Jiang plans to return to Wuhan on Thursday for a journey of more than 1,700 kilometers, usually one day and one night.
如今疫情仍未明朗，回家的路从未这样，如此遥远且漫长。
Now the epidemic is still not clear, the way home has never been so far away and long.
（应受访者要求，陈江、小艺、王肖系化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Chen Jiang, Xiao Yi, Wang Xiao's pseudonym) collect Southern Weekend and now solicit news leads from all readers who are on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“收留”回不了家的武汉人。
"Take in" the Wuhan people who can not go home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“收留”回不了家的武汉人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
