日本疫情升级！面临邮轮感染等多重冲击。
Japan Escalates! Facing multiple shocks such as cruise infection.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 刘栋过去的这个周末，日本的新冠肺炎疫情开始出现一系列变化。
NEW YORK Pneumonia The past weekend saw a series of changes in Japan's new crown pneumonia epidemic.
2月16日，日本首相安倍晋三紧急召开专家组会议。
On 16 February, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe convened an urgent expert group meeting.
厚生劳动大臣加藤胜信在会后的记者会上表示，目前日本的新冠疫情“已经进入到一个新的阶段”。
Japan's new crown "has entered a new phase," Health Minister Kato Shengxin told a news conference after the meeting.
“我们必须预计到未来疫情的进一步蔓延，为病毒的爆发做好准备。
"We have to anticipate further outbreaks in the future and be prepared for them.
目前，我们的首要任务是建立起完善的医疗体系，使患者（特别是重症患者）能够及时得到医治。
At present, our priority is to set up a comprehensive health care system so that patients, especially those with severe illnesses, can receive timely treatment.
”他说道。
'he said.
专家组指出，日本目前仍处于国内疫情发展的初期。
The Group notes that Japan is still in the early stages of developing an epidemic in the country.
然而一个不争的事实是，日本当下面临的疫情发展正日趋复杂化。
It is an indisputable fact, however, that the epidemic that Japan is facing is becoming increasingly complex.
截止17日下午，在横滨附近海面上被隔离无法靠岸的“钻石公主”号邮轮上新冠病毒感染病例已持续增加至454人，超过船上总人数的10%。
By the afternoon of the 17th, the number of cases of Newcastle virus infection on board the MV Princess Diamond, isolated and undocked off the coast of Yokohama, had steadily increased to 454, more than 10 per cent of the total.
与此同时，在日本的陆地上，疫情也在快速发展。
At the same time, the epidemic is developing rapidly on land in Japan.
自2月13日以来，短短不到4天时间内，日本国内的确诊感染人数已从29人增加到70人，增加近1.5倍。
In less than four days since 13 February, the number of confirmed infections in Japan has increased from 29 to 70, an increase of almost 1.5 times.
更让人担心的是，其中接近一半的新增病例传染源头暂时不明。
More worrying is the fact that nearly half of these new cases are temporarily unknown.
在16日的专家会议上，一些声音呼吁日本府应当把重点从口岸封堵转向（本土）医疗体制的完善上来，以预防可能出现的国内疫情恶化。
At the 16-day meeting of experts, some voices called on Japan's government to shift its focus from containment to improving health care to prevent a possible worsening of the epidemic.
而另一些专家则进一步指出，日本国内的疫情扩散或已开始。
Others went on to point out that the epidemic in Japan might have begun.
神户大学教授、传染病专家岩田健太郎16日晚在接受澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）采访时表示，在这一关键时刻人们需要格外冷静应对。
Kobe University professor and infectious disease expert Kenshiro Iwata said in an interview with reporters (www.thepaper.cn) that an exceptionally calm response was needed at this critical time.
他认为，“目前疫情仍未发展到（日本）全国性蔓延，只有几个病例集群，病毒还不是无所不在的。
"The epidemic is still not spreading nationwide [in Japan] and there are only a few clusters of cases where the virus is not ubiquitous," he said.
但我们必须努力减少日本国内感染者的数量，包括邮轮上的二次传播和医院内的感染，尽可能地封堵病毒进一步的传播。
But we must work to reduce the number of infected people in Japan, including secondary transmission on cruise ships and hospital-based infections, and to block further transmission of the virus as much as possible.
”2月6日，在日本横滨，“钻石公主”号邮轮靠岸准备接受物资补给。
On February 6, the MV Yokohama, Japan, the "Princess Diamond" docked to receive supplies.
新华社 图从海上到陆上，疫情升级从2月3日至今，停靠在横滨港附近海面的载有3700多人的“钻石公主”号邮轮一直是日本乃至全世界关注的焦点。
From February 3 to the present, the vessel Princess Diamond, with more than 3,700 people on board, has been the focus of attention in Japan and around the world.
2月17日，在最新一轮的检测中，又有99名船上人员被检测出确诊为新冠病毒感染者，这也使得这艘船上的总确诊病例人数上升至454人，超过船上总人数的十分之一。
On February 17, 99 more people on board were tested positive for the new crown virus, bringing the total number of confirmed cases on board to 454, more than a tenth of the total.
17日凌晨，近400名美国乘客被美国政府的包机接走，其中14人在新冠肺炎感染检测中结果呈阳性。
Nearly 400 American passengers were picked up by a U.S. government chartered plane in the early morning, 14 of whom tested positive for pneumonia in the New Crown.
剩下的近3000人仍在船上忐忑不安地等候着14天隔离期的结束。
The remaining nearly 3,000 people are still on board, anxiously awaiting the end of the 14-day quarantine period.
没有人知道感染人数是否仍会继续上升。
No one knows whether the number of infected people will continue to rise.
日本政府宣布，将从18日开始对所有剩下的乘客进行检测。
The Japanese government announced that it would test all remaining passengers from the 18th.
通过检测的乘客将可以在本周末前陆续下船。
Passengers who pass the test will be able to disembark before the end of the week.
此前，日本政府曾多次被质疑，为何不尽早对全部乘客做检测。
The government has been repeatedly questioned why all passengers should not be tested as soon as possible.
据日本广播协会（NHK）的报道，有专家指出，目前，日本国内的最大检测能力大约是每天1500例，如果优先对邮轮上的人员进行检测，将势必影响到日本国内其他人的检测。
According to the Japan Broadcasting Association (NHK), experts say Japan's current maximum detection capacity is around 1,500 a day, and giving priority to people on board could affect testing by others in Japan.
然而，尽管日本政府从一开始就采取了优先保证陆地需求、对海上感染源消极“封堵”的策略，却并没有能够阻止国内疫情的进一步蔓延。
But, while the Japanese government has, from the outset, adopted a strategy of prioritizing land-based demand and "containment" of marine sources of infection, it has not been able to stem the spread of the epidemic at home.
2月13日，神奈川县一名80多岁女性去世，死后被确认感染了新冠病毒。
February 13, Kanagawa County, a woman in her 80s died, was confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus.
这是日本首例新冠肺炎死亡病例。
It was the first death from pneumonia in Japan.
从这一天开始至17日的4天时间里，不包括“钻石公主”号邮轮，日本国内从南到北多地共增加至少41例新确诊病例。
Japan added at least 41 new cases from south to north during a four-day period from the start of the day to the 17th, excluding the MV Princess Diamond.
日本卫生部门表示，其中在北海道、东京都、千叶县、神奈川县、爱知县与和歌山县等6个地区新增的12个病例有可能属于无法确认感染途径、本地传播的“社区感染”病例。
Japan's health ministry said 12 new cases in six regions -- Hokkaido, Tokyo Kyoto, Chiba, Kanagawa, Aichi and Wakayama -- are likely to be locally transmitted "community infections" with no confirmed route of infection.
日媒报道称，日本此前的确诊病例或是到过中国，或是与中国游客有过明显接触史，但新增的这些病例却没有。
Japanese media reported that previously confirmed cases in Japan had either been to China or had a history of apparent contact with Chinese tourists, but the new cases were not.
这一新现象引起了日本政府和社会的高度关注。
This new phenomenon has aroused great concern of the Japanese government and society.
其中，感染人数最多的病例与和歌山县此前并不知名的一家医院有关。
The highest number of cases was linked to a previously unknown hospital in Wakayama prefecture.
在这家医院工作的医生、患者及其家属等5人被检测确诊。
Five people, including doctors, patients and their families working at the hospital, were tested and confirmed.
和歌山县知事仁坂吉伸认为，可能是在医院内部发生了传染，但至今仍不清楚最初病毒是如何被带入医院的。
Wakayama Prefecture Governor Ren Sakamoto said the infection may have occurred inside the hospital, but it is still unclear how the virus was first brought into the hospital.
该院院长表示，最近1年内都没有中国人在此就诊。
The hospital director said there had been no Chinese visits in the past year.
在爱知县，一对曾于1月28日至2月7日在美国夏威夷旅游的60多岁的日本夫妇回国后确认感染。
In Aichi prefecture, a pair of Japanese couples in their sixties who visited Hawaii from January 28 to February 7 confirmed the infection on their return home.
两人此前均没有中国旅行史，也没有接触过中国赴日人员，至今感染源仍不明。
Neither of them had a history of travel to China, nor had they had any contact with Chinese travellers to Japan. The source of the infection remains unknown.
北海道政府17日也宣布，札幌市一名确诊患者的感染路径不明，该患者出现症状前的2周内没有出过北海道，也排除了该患者与北海道最早的确诊者曾有接触的可能。
Hokkaido officials said Wednesday that a confirmed patient in Sapporo had not travelled to Hokkaido in the first two weeks after presenting symptoms and ruled out contact with the earliest confirmed cases in Hokkaido.
目前暂不清楚这些病例是否为二代、三代或更多代的感染者。
It is unclear whether these cases are second, third or more generations of infection.
日经中文网的报道援引厚生劳动省官员的话说，“如果人传人达到5次以上，很多时候就无法追踪传染的途径。
"If there are more than five person-to-person transmission, it is often impossible to track down the route of infection," said an official from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
”日经中文网指出，2009年，在应对甲型H1N1流感疫情的时候，日本政府曾重点对机场和港口采取“封堵”措施。
In 2009, in response to the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic, the Japanese government focused on "containment" of airports and ports, according to the website.
但直到发现了既没有前往疫情地区经历、也没有与感染者接触过的患者后，才意识到病毒已经在日本国内扩散。
But it was not until the discovery of patients who had neither travelled to nor come into contact with the epidemic that they realized that the virus had spread in Japan.
日本承认进入“疫情发生的早期阶段”针对这些新情况的出现，日本首相安倍晋三2月16日下午在首相官邸主持了一场专家组会议，商讨日本目前的新冠疫情状况以及应对措施。
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe hosted an expert group meeting at the prime minister's residence on the afternoon of February 16 to discuss the current state of the new crown epidemic in Japan and the response to it, in response to these developments.
据《日经新闻》报道，出席专家会议的，除了首相安倍和厚生劳动大臣之外，还有国立感染症（传染病）研究所所长等12余名医学专家和律师。
The meeting was attended by more than 12 medical experts and lawyers, including the head of the National Infectious Diseases (Infectious Diseases) Institute, in addition to Prime Minister Abe and the Minister of Health, Welfare and Labour, according to the Nikkei News.
与会的专家们最后得到的结论是，日本目前已经进入到新冠肺炎疫情“发生的早期阶段”，但是决定暂不提高目前的警戒级别。
Experts at the meeting concluded that Japan was now in the "early stages" of the outbreak, but decided not to raise its current alert level.
“政府仍然有能力追踪感染途径。
"The government still has the ability to track infection pathways.
目前日本和中国香港地区、新加坡处于同样的状态，在国际上日本的病毒传染情况并不突出。
At present, Japan and Hong Kong, China, Singapore in the same state, in the international Japanese virus infection situation is not prominent.
”与加藤胜信共同出席记者会的专家会议主席、国立感染症研究所所长胁田隆字判断道。
"Judged by Hiroshi Kono, the director of the National Infectious Diseases Institute and chairman of the expert group meeting that attended the news conference.
该小组的另一名成员也表示，“我们仍然处于疫情爆发的开始，病毒还没有大规模流行。
"We are still at the beginning of the outbreak and the virus is not yet pandemic," said another member of the team.
”2月16日，安倍晋三在首相官邸召开专家会议。
On February 16, Shinzo Abe convened a meeting of experts at the prime minister's residence.
来源：社交媒体推特报道称，日本卫生部门曾希望将在目前情况下将疫情警戒级别提高。
Source: Social media Twitter reported that Japanese health authorities had hoped to raise the alert level of the epidemic under the current circumstances.
这将意味着厚生劳动省可以把工作重点从筛查海外入境者和追踪感染途径转移到及早发现本土病例和提高治疗能力等方面上来。
This will mean that the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour can shift its focus from screening overseas entrants and tracking infection pathways to early detection of indigenous cases and improvement of treatment capacity.
据共同社的报道，会议决定，针对目前的疫情新情况，日本政府把重点从口岸封堵进一步转向医疗体制的完善上，以应对最终可能激增的病例。
According to Kyodo news agency, the meeting decided that in the light of the new situation, the Japanese government would shift its focus from containment to improving the health care system to deal with the eventual surge in cases.
日本政府决定，将把全国有能力接受新冠病毒感染者的医疗机构，从目前的726家增加到与2009年甲型H1N1流感疫情时相同的800家；此外还将加快确保重症病例的病床储备；同时全国546个医疗中心实施假日无休的24小时应对机制，随时接受患者的咨询，及时安排疑似患者送院治疗。
The government has decided to increase the number of hospitals nationwide that are capable of receiving new cases of H1N1 from the current 726 to 800 as at the time of the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) outbreak; it will also speed up the establishment of a 24-hour holiday response mechanism in 546 health centres nationwide, ready to receive consultations from patients and arrange for timely hospitalization of suspected patients.
不过并非所有专家都对日本当前疫情的发展持同样的看法。
But not all experts share the view that Japan's current epidemic is unfolding.
2月14日，在横滨市召开的针对日本新冠疫情的紧急研讨会上，世界卫生组织（WHO）负责新型冠状病毒对策的日本专家进藤奈邦子就指出，日本国内疫情扩散或已开始。
At an emergency seminar on the Japanese coronavirus outbreak in Yokohama on February 14, Japanese expert Kuniko Endo, who led the World Health Organization's response to the new coronavirus, pointed out that the epidemic had spread or begun in Japan.
据日经中文网报道，与会的专家之一东京慈惠会医科大学教授浦岛充佳认为，目前日本疫情已经进入下一阶段，可能会在全国蔓延。
One of the experts at the meeting, Tzu-hui Medical University professor Tsukasa Pusuka, said the epidemic was now entering its next phase and was likely to spread across the country.
据他预计，最坏的情况可能是， “未来每天的新确诊病例持续成倍增长。
At worst, he predicts, "the number of newly diagnosed cases will continue to multiply every day in the future."
一旦发生这种情况，政府将可能启动紧急状态法，禁止人们外出。
If this happens, the government could trigger a state of emergency to ban people from going out.
”浦岛充佳表示，2月将成为日本疫情的第一个关键期。
Mr Pudao said February would be the first critical period of the epidemic in Japan.
日本国内是否会蔓延，关键看2月17日前后会不会出现新的感染者。
Whether it will spread in Japan will depend on whether there are new infections around February 17.
“中国政府在1月27日停止了海外旅游团。
"The Chinese government stopped overseas tours on January 27.
假如在日本的中国团体游客当时已经大量感染，考虑到最长约2周的潜伏期及出现肺炎疑似症状等，至少要在17日前后才能得出（日本）是否发生大规模传染的报告。
Given the incubation period of up to two weeks and the suspected symptoms of pneumonia, it would have taken at least 17 days for a large-scale infection to be reported if there had been a mass infection among Chinese group tourists in Japan.
”他说道。
'he said.
东京奥运是否会取消或延期？日本疫情呈扩散趋势，除了已持续近半个月的“钻石公主”号邮轮事件和眼下有可能恶化的国内疫情以外，最让日本政府担心的，还有疫情发展对经济和东京奥运会带来的影响。
With the exception of the Princess Diamond incident, which has lasted for nearly half a month, and the looming threat of a domestic outbreak, Japan's government is most concerned about the impact of the epidemic on the economy and the Tokyo Olympics.
旅游业及其相关周边行业的打击首当其冲。
Tourism and its related industries bear the brunt of the blow.
中国是日本最大的游客来源国，日本超过30% 的游客来自中国。
China is Japan's largest source of tourists, with more than 30 per cent of its visitors coming from China.
据共同社报道，受此次疫情影响，日本1月至3月的旅游业收入或将减少13亿美元。
According to Kyodo news agency, Japan's tourism revenue from January to March is likely to drop by $1.3 billion.
疫情对日本实体经济的影响也正在逐步展现出来，日本首相安倍晋三日前表示，日本“开始看到疫情对旅游业和区域性中小企业的巨大影响”。
The epidemic's impact on Japan's real economy is also unfolding, with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe saying recently that Japan "is beginning to see the huge impact of the epidemic on tourism and regional small and medium-sized enterprises."
据日经中文网报道，多家日企已经纷纷表示，由于疫情的影响，企业的生产链和物流链等均受到不同程度的影响，2020年的营收预期都大幅下调。
Many Japanese companies have said their production chains and logistics chains have been affected to varying degrees due to the epidemic, with revenues expected to drop sharply in 2020, the newspaper reported.
从中期看来，最让日本政府担心的，莫过于今年7月份将在东京举行的夏季奥运会和残奥会。
In the medium term, nothing worries the Japanese government more than the Summer Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo in July.
自新冠疫情发生以来，日本社交媒体上就出现了“东京奥运会或将取消或推迟”的言论。
Since the outbreak of the new crown, there has been talk on Japanese social media that the Tokyo Olympics may be canceled or postponed.
不过，东京奥组委多次强调“从未考虑过取消或推迟东京奥运会”，国际奥委会、国际残奥委会也都发声否认会取消或推迟奥运会和残奥会。
However, the IOC has repeatedly stressed that it "has never considered cancelling or postponing the Tokyo Olympics," and IOC and IPC have all denied that they would cancel or delay the Games.
据共同社报道，15日，东京奥组委还按原计划举行了火炬传递的彩排活动，包括著名演员石原里美在内的10名火炬手参加了这一活动。
Tokyo's Olympic Organizing Committee (TOKYO) held rehearsals for the torch relay on Friday, with 10 torchbearers, including actress Ishihara Rimei, participating, Kyodo said.
东京奥运会圣火将于3月12日在希腊采集，3月26日起，近1000名火炬手将在日本全境传递奥运圣火，直至7月24日的奥运会开幕式。
The flame will be collected in Greece on March 12 and will be carried by nearly 1,000 torchbearers throughout Japan from March 26 until the opening ceremony of the Games on July 24.
东京奥组委主席森喜朗日前表示，东京奥运会不会取消或延期，奥组委将与政府合作“冷静应对疫情”。
TOKYO President Yoshiro Mori said the Tokyo Olympics would not be cancelled or postponed and that the IOC would work with the government to "calm down the epidemic."
国际奥委会东京奥运会协调委员会主席约翰·科茨也表示，东京奥运会准备工作正在“有条不紊地进行中”。
IOC coordination committee chairman John Coates also said preparations for the Tokyo Games were "well under way."
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
