我躲过了“恐怖邮轮”，但我的同事们在上面。
I dodged the Terror Cruise, but my colleagues were up there.
我躲过了“恐怖邮轮”，但我的同事们在上面。
I dodged the Terror Cruise, but my colleagues were up there.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
The following article comes from 私家地理。
The following article comes from private geography.
Author 私家地理。
Author Private Geography.
私家地理。
Private geography.
点亮旅行灵感，始于2005——澎湃新闻出品。
Lights the travel inspiration, starts 2005 - surges the news product.
澎湃新闻记者 王昱Imy不知道是否该庆幸自己的“幸运”。
Wang Yu, a journalist, did not know whether to congratulate himself on being "lucky."
2月5日，当全球的视线都聚焦在这艘停靠在横滨港口的邮轮时，Imy的心情十分复杂——她知道如果没有下船，自己本应该也在这艘船上。
On February 5, when global attention was focused on the ship that docked at Yokohama, Imy was in a very complicated mood - she knew she would have been on board if she hadn't stepped off the ship.
然而，出于个人的一些原因，她提前结束了工作，赶在春节前回到了家。
However, for personal reasons, she finished her work early and got home in time for the Spring Festival.
但万万没想到，伴随着国内疫情汹涌的变化，那艘她不久前刚呆过的邮轮也被这场“浩劫”吞没了。
But I did not expect that with the surge of domestic epidemic, the ship she had just stayed in was engulfed by the disaster.
2月17日，在横滨港口，钻石公主号已在此停泊了近两周。
On 17 February, at Yokohama port, the Princess Diamond has been anchored there for almost two weeks.
截止到昨天，钻石公主号上累计确诊人数为454人，多国已开始派专机接送滞留人员归国。
As of yesterday, 454 people had been confirmed on board the Princess Diamond, and many countries have begun sending special planes to pick up stranded people.
小森角度 视频(00:56)日本厚生劳动省18日发布消息称，“钻石公主”号游轮上人员的新冠病毒检查结果显示，新增88人呈阳性。
Japan's Princess Diamond Jubilee test results show 88 new positive cases of the virus, the ministry said Monday.
其中65人未出现发烧及咳嗽等症状。
65 of them showed no symptoms such as fever or cough.
目前总感染确诊人数已增至562人。
The total number of confirmed infections has now increased to 562.
Imy在朋友圈里写到：“这是我工作的过的邮轮，第一艘。
"This is the first cruise I've ever worked on," Imy wrote in his circle of friends.
没有想到竟然是在这种情况下介绍给我爸。
I didn't expect to be introduced to my dad under these circumstances.
”不仅是Imy，谁都没有想到这艘服役了近17年的豪华游轮如今披上了“恐怖游轮”的称号。
Not only Imy, but no one thought that the cruise ship, which had been in service for nearly 17 years, was now branded a "terrorist cruise ship."
来自英国的乘客David Abel为了庆祝50周年的结婚纪念日，与妻子登上了邮轮，正享受着一场属于两个人的浪漫；来自中国台湾地区的人气魔术师陈日昇受邀上船，正愉悦地进行着2020年的第一场旅行演出；来自中国香港地区的黄雅曦带着一家七口人于大年初一出发，正幸福地在海上庆祝新年。
David Abel, a British passenger who boarded a cruise with his wife to celebrate his 50th wedding anniversary, is enjoying a romantic relationship with two people; Chen Zhi, a popular magician from Taiwan, was invited aboard for his first tour in 2020; Huang Yaxi from Hong Kong, China, and a family of seven were celebrating New Year's Day.
然而谁都没想到，当邮轮驶入横滨的港口，这艘邮轮在接下来的十几天里，会成为3700人的 “海上监狱”。
But no one expected the cruise ship to become a "maritime prison" for 3,700 people in the next decade when it sailed into Yokohama's harbor.
而与David等人不同，Imy不是船上的乘客，她是钻石公主号上一千多名员工中的一位。
Unlike David and others, Imy is not a passenger on board. She is one of more than a thousand employees on board the Princess Diamond.
她和她的同事们在海上看过无数个日出与日落，比任何一位客人都了解这艘船，比任何一个人都熟悉海上的风波。
She and her colleagues had seen innumerable sunrises and sunsets on the sea, and knew the ship better than any guest, more than anyone else.
如今看着每天“疯长”的确诊数字，Imy的心情是沉重的，这些数字里也包括与她一起辛勤工作的同事。
Now Imy's mood is heavy as she looks at the number of confirmed cases of "crazy growth" every day, including the hard-working colleagues she works with.
据钻石公主号官网的最新数据显示，钻石公主号上共有2670名乘客和1100名船员，疫情期间，船员还要负担起客人的日常送餐、毛巾换洗、运送药物、清洁打扫等服务。
According to the latest statistics from the website of Princess Diamond, 2,670 passengers and 1,100 crew members will have to pay for daily food, towels, medicines and cleaning during the outbreak.
据美国《时代周刊》网站2月17日的报道，目前船上已确诊人数中，至少有33人为船员。
At least 33 crew members have been confirmed on board the ship, according to Time magazine.
Imy就职于钻石公主号上，由于提前回家过年，躲过了这场“浩劫”。
Working on the Princess Diamond, Imy survived the ordeal by returning home early to celebrate the New Year.
（本文图片除特别注明外均为Imy提供）以下为Imy的口述（括号内为新闻背景补充）：我的合同本来要到2月5日才结束，但12月下旬因为家里有些事，我提前申请回国了，因此没有跟着邮轮来到横滨。
My contract was not due to expire until February 5, but I did not follow the liner to Yokohama because of my family commitments in late December.
也因为这样，我似乎“幸运”地避开了这场意外的浩劫，但与我同批上船的同事目前仍然在船上。
And because of that, I seem to have been "lucky" to avoid the catastrophe, but my fellow crew members are still on board.
钻石公主号的母港在横滨，这就意味着大部分的客人都要在横滨的港口上船，最后返回横滨的母港结束旅程，下船。
The Princess of Diamonds' home port is in Yokohama, which means that most of the guests will have to board the ship at Yokohama port, and finally return to Yokohama home port to finish the journey and get off.
每家邮轮公司主打的卖点不同。
Each cruise company has a different selling point.
比如亲子主题的邮轮会吸引有宝宝的家庭客户，有过山车、水上乐园等新颖设施的邮轮比较吸引年轻人。
Parent-child cruises, for example, attract family customers with babies, and cruise ships with new facilities, such as roller coasters and water parks, appeal to younger people.
钻石公主号从风格来说相对传统，主打的是星级酒店的服务，客房装潢是按照五星级酒店的标准打造的。
Diamond Princess from the style of the relatively traditional, mainly engaged in star hotel service, room decoration is in accordance with the standards of five-star hotels.
船体规模不算大，属于中等水平，因此比较吸引年长一些的客户，年轻人比较少。
The hull is small and medium-sized, so it attracts older customers and fewer young people.
（据钻石公主号网站显示，“钻石公主号” 由三菱重工在日本长崎建造，船型属于Grand级别邮轮，船籍属于英国，邮轮所属公司公主邮轮则隶属于美国嘉年华集团。
(The Princess Diamond was built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in Nagasaki, Japan, with a British registry and a US Carnival cruise line, according to the website of Princess Diamond.
）作为一辆往来于东南亚航线上的豪华邮轮，钻石公主号上不光有中国籍员工，还有其他外国籍员工，船上的通用语言是英语。
) As a luxury liner sailing to and from Southeast Asia, the Diamond Princess is carrying not only Chinese but also foreign staff, with English as the lingua franca.
但相比于印度、菲律宾籍员工所占的比例来说，中国人并不多，来自大陆地区的也只有十来个人左右。
But the number of Chinese is small compared to the proportion of Indian and Filipino workers, with only a dozen or so from mainland China.
（据公开资料显示，在2014年之前，钻石公主号的航线主要从澳大利亚和新西兰出发。
(According to open sources, the route of the Princess Diamond until 2014 was mainly from Australia and New Zealand.
2014年之后，开始巡游横滨前往东京或神户的航线。
After 2014, a tour of Yokohama to Tokyo or Kobe will begin.
在2016～17年期间，钻石公主号以新加坡作为航行母港。
During 2016-17, the Princess Diamond will use Singapore as her home port of navigation.
2016年12月，马来西亚哥打京那巴鲁和越南芽庄开始成为钻石公主号的目的地之一。
In December 2016, Kothaginabaru, Malaysia, and Nha Trang, Viet Nam, began to become one of the destinations of the Princess Diamond.
在2017～18年间，钻石公主号又恢复了从澳大利亚悉尼出发的航线。
Between 2017 and 18, the Diamond Princess resumed her flight from Sydney, Australia.
2018年，在巡游过澳大利亚和新西兰周边海域之后，钻石公主号来到东南亚和东亚，往来于日本、韩国、新加坡、越南、中国台湾和马来西亚之间，该东南亚航线预计延续至2021年年初。
In 2018, after touring the waters around Australia and New Zealand, the Princess Diamond travelled to South-East and East Asia between Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Viet Nam, Taiwan, China and Malaysia, and the South-East Asian route is expected to continue until early 2021.
）大家分配在各个部门，每个部门的登船时间和供职周期也都不太一样。
) People are assigned to different departments, and each department has different boarding times and different job cycles.
我们部门叫艺术部门，主要负责船上的画廊和拍卖会，工作周期大概是5个月左右。
Our department, called the Arts Department, is primarily responsible for galleries and auctions on board, and the work cycle is about five months.
2月3号那天晚上，一位英国籍同事突然发消息给我说：“你知道吗？钻石公主号上新闻了！”我很惊讶，同时立刻担心起了与我的同事Erica。
On the night of February 3, a British colleague suddenly sent me a message saying, "You know what? The Princess Diamond is on the news!" I was surprised and immediately worried about joining my colleague Erica.
Erica与我同一天登船，我俩原本计划在最后一天一起下船，但我由于个人缘故提前离开了。
Erica boarded the same day as me, and we had planned to disembark together on the last day, but I left early for personal reasons.
2月2号那天，Erica兴奋地对我说，再过两天就可以下船了，还问我在要不要一起在日本见面。
On February 2, Erica excitedly told me that she would get off in two days and asked me if I wanted to meet in Japan.
结果3号的晚上，在得知钻石公主号上了新闻后，Erica也发来了消息，她说：“可能下不了船了。
On the evening of the 3rd, when she learned that the Princess Diamond had been on the news, Erica also sent word that she might not get off the ship.
“船上的人全都知道了，有一名香港游客回到香港之后被诊断出了新型冠状病毒肺炎，”Erica说。
"Everyone on board knows that a Hong Kong tourist was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia after returning to Hong Kong," Erica said.
（2020年2月1号，香港政府公布一名80岁老翁确诊罹患新型冠状病毒肺炎，他曾于1月20号于日本横滨港登上“钻石公主号”，并于1月25号在香港启德邮轮码头上岸返回。
(On February 1, 2020, the Hong Kong government announced that an 80-year-old man was diagnosed with coronavirus pneumonia. He boarded the Princess Diamond at Yokohama harbour on January 20 and disembarked at Hong Kong's Kai Tak Cruise Terminal on January 25.
1月30号，男子出现发热症状。
On January 30, men developed febrile symptoms.
）2月4号，轮船驶入了横滨母港，原定计划中，客人们应该从一大早就要开始准备下船了，但不光是我的同事们，船上客人也没能下船。
) On February 4, the steamer sailed into Yokohama home port, where it had been planned that guests would start getting off the ship in the early morning, but not only my colleagues, but also the ship's guests.
（据《日本朝日新闻》报道，2月3号晚上，“钻石公主号”抵达横滨港大黑埠头，未着岸停泊。
(The Princess Diamond arrived in Yokohama port on the evening of February 3 without docking, the Asahi Shimbun reported.
同夜，厚生劳动省对船内约3700名船上人员的检疫工作开始进行。
The same night, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare began quarantine work on about 3,700 people aboard the ship.
2月4号，邮轮着岸，横滨市表示所有乘客下船日期延迟到5号以后。
February 4, cruise ship landed, the city of Yokohama said that all passenger disembarkation date has been postponed to after 5.
根据邮轮公司的网站最新揭示，船内有2666名乘客和1100名船员。
According to a recent report on the cruise company's website, there were 2,666 passengers and 1,100 crew members on board.
）夜色中灯火通明的钻石公主号停泊在港口12月底的时候，我还在船上，那时候我们对“新型冠状病毒肺炎是什么”都还没有概念，因此即便船上有人发烧或者咳嗽，大家似乎也没有太多在意。
) The brightly lit Princess Diamond docked at the end of December, when I was still on board, and we had no idea what the new coronavirus pneumonia was, so even if someone on board had a fever or a cough, it didn't seem to matter much.
并且船上上网很贵，各家公司的收费标准不一样，像钻石公主号的话，大概是两三百块人民币几百兆的水平。
And the ship is very expensive Internet access, companies charge different rates, like the Princess Diamond, about two or three hundred yuan of the level of a few hundred trillion.
就算买了流量，我也从来舍不得拿来刷微博等等社交媒体，工作累的时候，也不会想看手机。
Even if I buy traffic, I will never be willing to brush micro-blogging and other social media, when tired of work, do not want to see mobile phones.
（据钻石公主号官网介绍，邮轮上覆盖Wi-Fi，并设置有网吧。
(According to the Princess Diamond website, the ship is covered with Wi-Fi and has Internet cafes.
但120分钟的上网用为62.95美元（购买套餐可额外赠送20分钟），190分钟为82.95美元（购买套餐可额外赠送40分钟）。
But the 120-minute Internet connection cost $62.95 (20 extra minutes for a set meal) and $82.95 for 190 minutes (an extra 40 minutes for a set meal).
）可以说，在海上的生活的4个月，我几乎过着与世隔绝的生活。
) It can be said that during the four months of my life at sea, I lived almost in isolation.
船上的生活有着一份“与世隔绝”的安静得知疫情爆发后，最初的几天我特别着急，最担心的是信息沟通不畅的问题。
Life on board the ship has a "secluded" quiet I was particularly anxious for the first few days after the outbreak of the outbreak.
钻石公主号的母公司是美国嘉年华集团，任何的问题都要先发邮件通报给总公司，然后再等总公司的决策。
The owner of the Princess is the Carnival Group, which sends e-mails to its home office about any problems and waits for a decision by its home office.
日本和美国有十几个小时的时差，沟通起来并不顺畅。
Japan and the United States have more than a dozen hours of jet lag, communication is not smooth.
另外，船员中的中国人本来就少，中国员工还能在自己的朋友圈看到关于疫情各方面的信息，但大部分的菲律宾、印度籍的外籍员工对疫情几乎一无所知，许多人没有把疫情当回事。
In addition, there are already fewer Chinese on the crew, and Chinese employees can see information on all aspects of the epidemic in their own circle of friends, but most Filipino and Indian expatriate workers know little about the outbreak, and many do not take it seriously.
让我印象特别深的是， 2月5号早上，我联系了两位在船上的中国籍同事，询问他们的情况。
I was particularly impressed when, on the morning of February 5, I contacted two of my Chinese colleagues on board and asked about them.
一位在健身房工作的男生告诉我，他也不清楚现在情况怎么样了，大家还是正常地一起在员工餐厅吃饭，虽然发了口罩，也并不是所有人都会戴。
One guy at the gym told me he didn't know what was going on, that everyone was eating together normally in the cafeteria and that although they were wearing masks, not everyone wore them.
作为一个旁观者，我每天在国内阅读着各种各样关于抗疫的新闻，每天看到钻石公主号上确诊人数不断增长，我十分不理解为什么船上的大家没有一丝紧张感呢？甚至我比他们还要焦急，比他们还担心每一刻的变化。
As a bystander, I read all kinds of news about the epidemic in China every day, and every day I see the number of people diagnosed on board the Princess Diamond.
直到一位意大利的同事对我说：“There's no way to escape（没有办法可以逃脱）。
Not until an Italian colleague said to me: "There's no way out of my service."
”船上的空间很封闭，特别是员工住的宿舍基本上都没有窗户，面积非常狭小。
The space on board was closed, especially since the dormitories where employees lived were mostly windowless and very small.
绝大部分是双人间，极少数是单人间，从疫情开始到现在，没有任何人给员工宿舍消过毒， 大家工作完了后仍然聚集在员工宿舍一起吃饭。
Most of them are double rooms, very few single rooms. From the beginning of the epidemic until now, no one has poisoned the staff dormitory.
在这种情况下，似乎正如意大利同事说的那样，的确“再怎么躲也躲不掉”。
In this case, it seems that, as my colleague from Italy said, there really is "no way to hide."
于是，唯一的办法就是自己开心一点，放松一些。
So, the only way to be happy is to relax.
另外不同于乘客，在隔离期间，船上的员工还有自己的工作，比如巡逻、值班、送餐，还包括一些清洁工作。
And unlike passengers, the ship's employees have their own jobs, such as patrolling, on-duty, delivering meals, and some cleaning during the quarantine period.
（据《日本朝日新闻》报道，2月5日上午8点10分左右开始，船内开始播放关于“进行14天隔离’的通知广播。
(The Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that the announcement of the "14-day quarantine" began at around 8: 10 a.m. on February 5.
日本厚生劳动省宣布，船上已确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎新增病例为10例，该10人下船并被送往医疗机关救治。
The Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour announced that 10 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia had been confirmed on board the ship, and the 10 people were disembarked and taken to medical institutions for treatment.
同时对船上有发热、咳嗽等症状且与其有密切接触的273人进行检测。
Meanwhile, 273 people with fever, cough and close contact with the ship were tested.
）事情发展到2月7号，似乎有了些波澜，邮轮上的累计确诊人数达到61人。
By February 7, things seemed to be making waves, with the cumulative number of confirmed cruise ship cases reaching 61.
有些同事说收到了分配的体温计，但也有同事说没有收到，并且也没有人给他们做体检。
Some colleagues said they had received the allocated thermometers, but others said they had not, and no one had given them a medical check-up.
健身房的男同事告诉我，有些人发烧了去报告没有得到处理。
My male gym colleague told me that some people have a fever to report not being treated.
种种信息，可以感觉到船舱内是比较混乱的状态。
A variety of information, you can feel the cabin is more chaotic state.
（据《日本朝日新闻报道，2月7日，厚生省宣布新增41个病例，其中35人为60岁以上老人，船上累计确诊人数达到61人，约40名自卫队队员参与支援工作。
(According to the Asahi Shimbun newspaper, on February 7, the MHLW announced 41 new cases, of which 35 were over 60 years of age.
4名感染者被送往静冈县内的医院。
Four infected persons were taken to the hospital in Jinggang district.
）Erica跟我说，她怀疑自己被传染了。
) Erica told me she suspected she was infected.
她说虽然现在只有感冒的症状，但她每天都要接触确诊阳性的乘客。
She said that although she now has only symptoms of colds, she is exposed to confirmed positive passengers every day.
我问她为什么？她说现在没有其他人来帮忙，船上所有的工作仍然由船员来完成，乘客不能走出房间，只能打电话给前台提出需求，比如要买东西，要找人沟通等等，每天前台的电话都是爆满的，大家都忙疯了。
I asked her why? She said there was no one else to help, that all the work on the ship was still done by the crew, that passengers could not go out of the room and had to call the front desk to ask for demands, such as shopping, finding someone to talk to, etc. Every day the front desk was full of calls and everyone was crazy.
由于确诊的乘客很多，但会说日语的船员不多，于是Erica从艺术部门被临时指派去协助确诊病人的运输工作。
Because of the large number of passengers diagnosed and the small number of Japanese-speaking crew members, Erica was temporarily assigned from the art department to assist in the transportation of confirmed patients.
然而，船上除了口罩，没有其他的防护用品，Erica每次与患者面对面交流的时候，仅仅只戴了口罩，连护目镜也没有。
However, the ship had no other protective gear than masks, and Erica only wore masks and goggles when she spoke to her patients face-to-face.
向领导报告了症状后，出于对密切接触的事实考虑， Erica获得了检查的机会。
After reporting the symptoms to the leadership, Erica was given the opportunity to be examined out of consideration for the facts of close contact.
我们员工宿舍的房间非常小，也就四五平米左右。
Our staff dormitory room is very small, also about 45 square meters.
宿舍的分配是与员工的级别挂钩的，比如如果你是Officer级别，可以住单人间，如果是Staff级别就是双人间，再往下Crew 级别也是双人间，但两个房间共用一个卫生间。
The allocation is tied to the employee's level, for example, if you are an Officer level, you can stay in a single room, if Staff is a double room, and down Crew is a double room, but two rooms share a bathroom.
所有员工的住宿楼层都在水平面以下。
All staff accommodation floors are below the water level.
Imy所在的Staff级别房间是一个双人间。
Imy's Staff-class room is a double room.
在等检查结果的过程中，Erica没有被安排隔离，仍然与舍友挤在双人间的宿舍里，并且仍然在员工食堂吃饭。
While awaiting the results of the inspection, Erica was not segregated, remained in a double-room dormitory with her roommates and continued to eat in the staff canteen.
这一点让我感到十分的意外和不解。
This was a great surprise and perplexity to me.
（据《日本朝日新闻》报道，2月9日，累计确诊人数为70人；2月11日，439人接受检测，累计确诊病例达到135人，新增的65人感染者中有4人被送往东京都和神奈川的医院治疗；2月12日，新增确诊病例39人，其中一名为检疫官员。
(The Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported a cumulative total of 70 confirmed cases on February 9, 439 people tested on February 11, a cumulative total of 135 confirmed cases, four of the 65 new infections were sent to hospitals in Tokyo and Kanagawa, and 39 new cases were confirmed on February 12, including one quarantine officer.
）其实邮轮上，对于员工的卫生要求十分得严格，比如食物不可以带到餐厅以外的区域。
) In fact, on a cruise ship, the hygiene requirements for employees are very strict, such as food should not be taken outside the restaurant area.
除了每天的个人清洁外，大概每隔一周左右，都会有人检查员工的宿舍卫生情况。
In addition to the daily personal cleanliness, around every other week or so, someone checks the staff's dormitory hygiene.
另外，员工一旦发现自己生病了，必须要第一时间汇报，不汇报的话就会有处罚，根据病情的状况也会有隔离的措施。
In addition, when employees find themselves ill, they must report the illness immediately, and if they do not report it, there will be penalties and isolation depending on the condition of the case.
我记得有一次发烧，就在医务室被隔离了两天，在经过连续多次体温测量，保证退烧且没有反复的情况下才允许我出门。
I remember being quarantined in the infirmary for two days and being allowed to go out after repeated temperature tests to ensure my fever was reduced and there was no repetition.
隔离病房内，所有餐食都会送到房间里然而这一次，面对新型冠状病毒疫情，不管是乘客还是船员，大家似乎都没有做好准备，让人担心的事情仍然在发生。
In the isolation ward, everything was delivered to the room But this time, in the face of a new coronavirus epidemic, neither the passengers nor the crew seemed to be ready, and something alarming was still happening.
疫情发展的如此迅速，我认为主要问题还是邮轮上空间有限，因为大部分的情况下，乘客和船员都需要共用一个空间，比如疫情爆发之前，每天的午饭时间，乘客们都会集中到14层的自助餐厅吃饭，到了晚上的娱乐时间，大家又会去集中去剧院看表演等等。
The spread of the epidemic is so rapid that I think the main problem is the limited space on board, because most of the time passengers and crew need to share a space. Before the outbreak, for example, passengers would gather for lunch at the 14th floor cafeteria, and at night, they would go to the theater and watch performances.
疫情发生前，每天晚上娱乐时间，乘客会去集中去剧院看表演船员专用的酒吧除了室外甲板这样的开放空间以外，大多数的活动空间都是密闭的，自然更容易造成病毒的传播。
Before the outbreak, every night during entertainment time, passengers would go to the theater to see the performance of the crew of the bar in addition to the open space such as the outdoor deck, most of the space is closed, naturally more easily caused by the spread of the virus.
虽然厕所和餐厅等地点，放置了消毒酒精、洗手液等用品，但在剧院、画廊、商店等活动地点，是没有这些东西的。
Although supplies such as disinfectant alcohol and hand sanitizers are placed in places such as toilets and restaurants, they are not available in theatres, galleries, shops, etc.
另外，上下楼梯的扶手、电梯的按钮等等这些细节，很难完全控制。
In addition, up and down stairs handrails, elevator buttons and other details, it is difficult to fully control.
室外甲板上会举行热闹的桑巴舞表演活动据我了解，钻石公主号上乘客有2600多人，船上员工也有1000多人，但是船上的医务室只有两位医生，外加若干位护士，工作人员总计不超过10人。
There will be a lively samba on the outdoor deck.I understand that the Princess Diamond has more than 2,600 passengers and a crew of more than 1,000, but the ship's infirmary has only two doctors plus nurses and a total staff of no more than 10.
整个医务室有一个前台、一个诊断室，还有2~3个房间作为隔离室，每个隔离室内有2~3张床。
The entire infirmary has a front desk, a diagnostic room and two to three rooms for isolation, each with two to three beds.
船上的医务人员实行轮班制，工作压力非常大，并且医疗能力也非常有限，只能进行打针、吃药，处理比较普通的小毛病。
The medical staff on board work on a shift basis, under very high pressure and with very limited medical capacity, who are forced to administer injections, take medication and deal with minor, more common problems.
如果客人突发重症，我们一般会选择尽快联系最近的港口，将病人送去当地的医院。
If a guest has a severe attack, we usually choose to contact the nearest port as soon as possible and take the patient to the local hospital.
所以在这次新型冠状病毒的面前，对于船上的医疗人员来说，这不仅仅是人手不足的问题，在医疗能力上，我们可能也完全没有能力去抵抗。
So in the face of this new coronavirus, for the medical personnel on board, this is not just a shortage of personnel, in terms of medical capabilities, we may also be completely unable to resist.
2月13日，已经开始有一些确诊的重症患者被允许下船，送到当地的医院接收治疗，钻石公主号所属的美国总公司也在Facebook上发了一封信，表示船上的所有员工可以获得一至两个月的带薪假期，并且整个隔离期间在船上的花费都由船方报销，作为对员工的一个补偿。
On 13 February, a number of confirmed cases of serious illness were allowed to disembark for treatment at the local hospital, and the United States head office of the Princess Diamonds sent a letter on Facebook stating that all employees on board were entitled to one to two months' paid leave and that the cost of their stay on board was reimbursed by the ship as a compensation for their employees.
其实我也不知道是否有什么法律规定或者合约规定，要求船上的员工必须继续工作，但是在那个情况下，我相信大家都是出于一种使命感，觉得有义务要服务下去。
I don't know if there are any laws or contracts that require the employees on board to continue working, but in that case, I believe we all feel obligated to serve out of a sense of mission.
（据《日本朝日新闻》报道，2月13日，新增确诊病例44人，累计确诊人数达到218人。
(The Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that on February 13, 44 new cases were confirmed, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 218.
船上仍有约200名80岁以上的高龄老人，厚生省计划让其中一部分老人先下船；14日，11名乘客下船，并安排在埼玉县和光市的一所校舍内隔离观察；15日，厚生劳动省表示对船上全员进行检测，如果没有发现感染，观察期结束的19号之后可以下船；16日，新增确诊病例70人，其中38人没有发烧和咳嗽的症状。
Some 200 senior citizens over 80 years of age were still on board, with the Ministry planning to disembark some of them; 11 passengers were disembarked and arranged to be quarantined in a school building in Saitama and Gwangcity on the 14th.
）不过，船员什么时候能全部下船，还是未知。
However, it is not known when the crew will all disembark.
现在我们部门留在船上的五个人里，有三个人都生病了，目前在隔离中，也在等待回家的消息。
Three of the five men in our department who remained on board were ill and were now in quarantine, awaiting news of their return home.
（据《日本朝日新闻》报道，2月17日，美国撤侨飞机从羽田机场出发，带走了328名美国公民及其家属。
(The Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that 328 American citizens and their families were taken from Haneda airport on February 17.
据了解，回到美国后，他们还要在美军基地接受14天的隔离检查。
Upon their return to the United States, they are expected to undergo a 14-day quarantine at the US military base.
中国香港、澳大利亚、加拿大、韩国也相继发表声明将派专机接走滞留人员。
Hong Kong, China, Australia, Canada and the Republic of Korea have also announced plans to send special planes to pick up the stranded.
截止到2月17日，日本厚生省宣布，钻石公主号上累计确诊人数为454人，日本国内累计确诊人数为520人。
As of February 17, the MHLW announced that the cumulative number of confirmed cases on board the Princess Diamond was 454, with a cumulative total of 520 confirmed cases in Japan.
据菲律宾新闻网站Rappler2月17日的报道称，目前在钻石公主号上已确诊的菲律宾人为27人，且皆为船上工作人员。
According to the Philippine news website Rappler Feb. 17, the number of Filipinos now confirmed on board the Princess Diamond is 27, all on board.
菲律宾驻日大表示正在与两国政府的相关机构和世界卫生组织官员协商，确保船上538名菲律病人的健康，并协助他们回到菲律宾。
The Philippines University in Japan says it is consulting with government agencies and World Health Organization officials to ensure the health of the 538 Philippines patients on board and to assist them in returning to the Philippines.
）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
) Pound here into a real-time map of a new type of coronavirus infection across the country.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我躲过了“恐怖邮轮”，但我的同事们在上面。
I dodged the Terror Cruise, but my colleagues were up there.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我躲过了“恐怖邮轮”，但我的同事们在上面";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I survived "terrorist cruise," but my colleagues at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“这是我工作的过的邮轮，第一艘。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "This is the first cruise I've ever worked on.
没有想到竟然是在这种情况下介绍给我爸。
I didn't expect to be introduced to my dad under these circumstances.
”";。
";;
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
