襄阳：如何成为湖北唯一不“封城”的地级市。
Xiangyang: How to become the only city in Hubei that does not "seal the city".
张笛扬。
Zhang Deyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲ 2020年1月25日，湖北省襄阳市，航拍一处新能源公交车停车场，只见一辆辆公交汽车整齐停放，有些还正在充电。
January 25, 2020, Xiangyang City, Hubei Province, aerial photography of a new energy bus parking lot, only to see a bus parked orderly, some are still charging.
（IC photo/图）全文共2708字，阅读大约需要6分钟。
The full text is 2708 words and will take about six minutes to read.
虽不“封城”，但襄阳已基本达到“封城”的效果，虽没有对私家车实行禁行，但在近日襄阳市的主干道上已很少看到私家车。
Although not "closed", but Xiangyang has basically achieved the "closure" effect, although private cars are not banned, but in the recent days Xiangyang City on the main roads have seen very few private cars.
景洪等地闹出“封城乌龙”后，已有多地对外宣布不会“封城”。
Jinghong and other places out of the "closure of the city after the Oolong," has been announced that many will not "closure."
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张笛扬责任编辑 | 钱昊平刘丽是湖北襄阳一名公交车司机，2020年1月27日6:15，她驾驶首班车离开站台，一直到终点站，都只有1名乘客。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization at Southern Weekend reporter Zhang Deyang. Qian Haoping, a bus driver in Xiangyang, Hubei Province, left the station at 6: 15 p.m. on January 27, 2020, with only one passenger on board.
她开始第二班驾驶时，车上的乘客有10人左右，对于那条热门线路来说，这个数字是“非常少”的。
There were about 10 passengers on board when she started the second shift, a "very small number" for the popular route.
面对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，公交公司已减少春节期间的公交车班次。
In the face of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, the bus company has reduced the number of bus services during the Spring Festival.
除夕晚上，刘丽收到通知，她所在的那条线路只保持4辆车运行，压减了超过一半的班次。
On New Year's Eve, Liu Li was told that her route only kept four cars running, reducing the number of shifts by more than half.
尽管公交车班次被压缩，但在湖北，襄阳目前还是唯一没有“封城”的地级市，市内公共交通仍正常运转。
Although the bus service has been compressed, Xiangyang is the only city in Hubei that does not have a "closed city." Public transportation in the city is still functioning normally.
“交通管制的措施是根据疫情防控的实际情况推进的”，江伟兵在襄阳新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部负责新闻发布工作，他对南方周末记者表示，襄阳没有像省内其他城市那样“封城”，是为了在“健康安全”的前提下，维持城区基本正常秩序。
"Traffic control measures are based on the actual situation of epidemic prevention and control." Jiang Weibing, who is in charge of the press release at the Pneumonia Command for the new coronavirus infection in Xiangyang, told Southern Weekend reporter that Xiangyang did not "seal the city" like other cities in the province in order to maintain a basically normal urban order under the premise of "health and safety.
1“不一定非要借鉴其他城市的做法”在江伟兵看来，襄阳虽未“封城”，但周边县市已加强了对出城的管控，襄阳在湖北基本上已处于“隔离”的状态。
"It is not necessary to learn from other cities" In Jiang Weibing's view, although Xiangyang has not "closed the city," but the surrounding counties and cities have strengthened the control of the city, Xiangyang has basically been "isolated" in Hubei state.
他希望不“封城”能让市民的情绪趋于稳定、减少恐慌，“这对防控疫情也有好处”。
He hopes not to "close the city" will stabilize public sentiment and reduce panic, "which is good for the prevention and control of the epidemic."
襄阳是湖北13个市（州）中，最后一个出现确诊病例的，时间是2020年1月24日。
Xiangyang is the last of 13 cities in Hubei province to have a confirmed case on January 24, 2020.
前一天，武汉已宣布“封城”，其他市（州）紧随其后，截至1月24日晚间，除襄阳之外，湖北其他各市（州），均已采取“封城”措施，停掉了长途客运和市区公共交通。
Wuhan had already declared the city closed the day before, followed by other cities (states), and by the night of January 24, all other Hubei cities (counties) had closed down long-distance passenger transport and urban public transport, except Xiangyang.
24日晚间的社交平台上，也有网友传出襄阳即将“封城”的消息。
24 evening on the social platform, there are also netizens coming from Xiangyang "closure" of the news.
次日，襄阳新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部“高调”辟谣，指网传消息不实。
The next day, Xiangyang new-style coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command "high-profile" rumor, refers to the network misinformation.
指挥部有关负责人曾公开表示，襄阳没有完全封闭所有交通，是“经过反复研究、谨慎研判做出的决定”。
Command officials have said publicly that Xiangyang did not completely close all traffic, is "after repeated research, careful decision-making."
是为了在保“健康安全”前提下保“基本运转”，维持城区民生基本正常秩序，避免出现确需应急市民“无车可乘”的情况。
It is to ensure the "basic operation" under the premise of "health and safety," maintain the basic normal order of the people's livelihood in urban areas, and avoid the need for emergency citizens "no car to take advantage of."
襄阳防控指挥部还设立了一项机制，要求媒体在发布疫情的相关信息后，每天收集、汇总后台的网友评论，并反馈到指挥部。
The Hsiangyang Command has also set up a mechanism that requires the media to collect and summarize back-office netizens' comments on a daily basis after disseminating information about the epidemic and report it back to the command post.
江伟兵称，不少襄阳网友提出了公共交通对工作生活的必要性。
Jiang Weibing said that many Xiangyang netizens put forward the necessity of public transportation for working life.
“不一定非要借鉴哪个城市的做法。
"You don't have to learn from what city you do.
”江伟兵说，襄阳是根据疫情防控的需要和市民的需求，作出了应对方案。
Jiang said Xiangyang was responding to the needs of disease prevention and control as well as the needs of the public.
他进一步解释，公交车停运会带来很多不方便，“医护下班后回家都回不了，另外还有一部分孕妇或者老人，需要定期到医院做例行检查，有乘坐公共交通的需要”。
He further explained that the bus stoppage would bring many inconveniences, "medical staff can not return home after work, and there are also a number of pregnant women or elderly people who need regular check-ups at hospitals and need to take public transport."
襄阳公交车目前减半运营，同时，没有禁行机动车，私家车可以正常上路。
Xiangyang bus operation is currently halved, at the same time, no ban on motor vehicles, private cars can be normal road.
不“封城”还考虑到襄阳是一个交通要塞，封闭全部交通会对周边地区产生不小的影响。
No "closure" also takes into account that Xiangyang is a traffic fortress, the closure of all traffic will have a considerable impact on the surrounding area.
襄阳的GDP在湖北省内仅次于武汉，是鄂西北三省毗邻区域最大的城市，有六百多万人口，辖区面积近2万平方公里。
Xiangyang's GDP is second only to Wuhan in Hubei province and is the largest in the neighboring areas of the three provinces of northwest Hubei Province, with a population of more than 6 million and an area of nearly 20,000 square kilometers.
自古即为交通要塞，汉丹、焦柳、襄渝三条铁路和武西、郑万两高铁都在襄阳交汇。
Since ancient times, traffic fortress, Han Dan, Jiaoyu, Xiangyu railway and Wuxi, Zheng Man two high-speed railway in Xiangyang intersection.
江伟兵告诉南方周末记者，虽不“封城”，但襄阳已基本达到“封城”的效果，虽没有对私家车实行禁行，但在近日襄阳市的主干道上已很少看到私家车，“居民们非必要已经不会出门了”。
Jiang told Southern Weekend reporter that although Xiangyang has basically achieved the effect of "sealing the city," private cars have not been banned, but private cars have been rarely seen on the main roads in Xiangyang.
2管制逐步加码周枫在襄阳一市直机关工作，被安排在正月初二值班，当天上午，她爱人开车送她去了工作单位，一家人在私家车中还都戴着口罩。
2 control gradually add code Zhou Feng in Xiangyang a municipal organs work, was arranged on the second day of the first month on duty, that morning, her wife drove her to work, the family is also wearing a mask in the private car.
她一路上“也没看到几辆私家车”。
She "didn't see any private cars" all the way.
不坐私家车的市民必须戴口罩才能乘公交车，刘丽说这是公司的要求，车辆运行时也不能开空调，每辆车都要开窗通风。
Members of the public who do not ride in private cars have to wear masks to take buses. Liu said this is a requirement of the company.
公交不停运，但不是没有交通管制措施，直至1月28日，襄阳还在陆续出台相关交通管制措施，截至这一天，襄阳全市累计有确诊病例70例、疑似病例210例。
Public transportation does not stop, but not without traffic control measures, until January 28, Xiangyang is still rolling out relevant traffic control measures, as of this day, Xiangyang city has a total of 70 confirmed cases and 210 suspected cases.
管制措施是陆续上马的，并非一步到位。
Control measures are in place, not one step at a time.
1月25日，襄阳就“封城”消息进行辟谣的当天，防控指挥部宣布暂停通往襄阳市域以外的长途客运汽车，并从次日开始取消襄阳刘集机场所有客运航班。
On January 25, the day Xiangyang denied rumors of the city's closure, the control headquarters suspended long-haul passenger cars outside Xiangyang and cancelled all passenger flights from Xiangyang's Liu Ji Airport the next day.
前一天，襄阳市高铁站已大幅减少运送班列，由平时每天109列减少到19列，仅保留北京、烟台两地往返高铁车次。
The day before, the Xiangyang high-speed rail station has drastically reduced the number of trains from 109 to 19 per day, leaving only Beijing and Yantai to and from the two places.
目前，指挥部还未完全关闭高速公路出入口和国道、省道出入口，但在各高速路口全部设置了管控点和绿色通道，“除救助保障和生活物资等工作车辆、应急车辆外，一律进行劝阻”。
At present, the command post has not completely closed the entrances and exits of expressways, State roads and provincial roads, but has set up control points and green corridors at all high-speed intersections.
江伟兵向南方周末记者解释了襄阳管制逐步加码的原因：在疫情暴发之初，市区内的医用物资和居民生活用品都还没有完全储备到位，“我们还是要给物资留通道”，江伟兵提到了其他地市“封城”后出现的问题，“有些地方封城后捐赠的物资都进不去。
Jiang explained to Southern Weekend reporter why Xiangyang control gradually increased: at the beginning of the outbreak, the city's medical supplies and household goods are not fully in place, "we still have to leave access to supplies," Jiang said after referring to other cities after the "closure" problems, "some places after the closure of donated goods.
”此外有些逐步加码的管制措施，是后来在上级要求下才实施的，如机场就是全省统一要求停飞的。
In addition, some of the incremental controls were later implemented at the request of superiors, such as the closure of airports at the request of provincial unification.
尽管襄阳已表示不“封城”，但在其他城市相继“封城”的趋势下，也有不少人提前结束假期，离开襄阳。
Although Xiangyang has said it will not "close the city," other cities have "closed" the trend, but also a lot of people leave Xiangyang ahead of time.
在西南某省份工作的程御，在武汉“封城”的当天，马上买了机票，带着全家离开襄阳，到他的工作地过年。
In the southwest of a province working Cheng Yu, in Wuhan "seal the city" on the day, immediately bought a ticket, with the whole family left Xiangyang, to his place of work for the New Year.
程御一方面担心突然“封城”，会影响年后的工作，另一方面也对襄阳的疫情发展抱有恐慌。
Cheng Yu on the one hand worried about the sudden "closure", will affect the work after the year, on the other hand, Xiangyang epidemic development fear.
3多地官宣不“封城”武汉及湖北其他多个地市实施“封城”后，部分城市曾将“封城”纳入防控疫情的工作举措之一，也引发了不小争议。
After more than three officials declared that Wuhan and many other cities in Hubei province had been closed down, some cities had included "sealing the city" as part of their efforts to prevent and control the epidemic.
2020年1月25日之后，不少城市明确表示不“封城”。
After January 25, 2020, many cities made it clear that they would not "close the city."
当天，一份显示云南景洪市即将“封城”的通告文件在网络上流传。
On the same day, a circular document showing the impending "closure" of the city of Jinghong, Yunnan, circulated on the network.
当地随即发布通报，称网络上传播的文件并非规范性文件，尚处于讨论阶段，未正式对外公布实施，经过讨论已决定暂不实施“封城”。
A circular was immediately issued stating that the documents circulated on the network were not normative documents, were still under discussion, had not been officially made public and had been discussed and decided not to implement the "closure."
次日11时许，面对“封城”的传言，杭州“新型冠状病毒肺炎防疫指挥部”明确表示不“封城”。
The next day around 11: 00, in the face of "closed city" rumors, Hangzhou "new coronavirus pneumonia epidemic prevention command" explicitly said not to "seal the city.
1月26日下午，针对部分地区为防疫阻断道路的情况，交通运输部副部长刘小明在新闻发布会上作出了回应，表示能理解“守土有责”的想法，但从交通运输上看，应该按照“一断三不断”的原则：坚决阻断病毒传播渠道，公路交通网络不能断，应急运输绿色通道不能断，必要的群众生产生活物资通道不能断。
On the afternoon of January 26, Liu Xiaoming, vice minister of transportation, responded to the news conference by saying that he understood the idea of "keeping the ground running," but in terms of transportation, we should firmly block the transmission channels of the virus, the highway transportation network cannot be broken, the emergency transportation green passage cannot be broken, and the necessary mass production and living materials channels cannot be cut off.
实际上，在景洪等地闹出“封城乌龙”后，已有多地对外宣布不会“封城”。
In fact, in Jinghong and other places out of the "closure of the city of Oolong," many have announced that it will not "closure."
1月26日下午，北京市交通委新闻发言人容军表示，“对外交通基本正常，没有封城，也不会封城。
"Traffic with the outside world is basically normal and will not be closed or closed," said Hong Jun, a spokesman for the Beijing Municipal Communications Commission on January 26.
”1月27日召开的广东省疫情防控新闻发布会上，广东省副省长张光军明确表示，广东各地均不会“封城”。
At a news conference on January 27 to prevent and control the outbreak in Guangdong province, Vice Governor Zhang Guangjun made it clear that all parts of Guangdong would not be "closed."
（应采访对象要求，刘丽、周枫、程御为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
At the request of the interviewee, Liu Li, Zhou Feng, Cheng Yu as an alias, Southern Weekend is now openly soliciting news leads from all readers on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
襄阳：如何成为湖北唯一不“封城”的地级市。
Xiangyang: How to become the only city in Hubei that does not "seal the city".
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "襄阳：如何成为湖北唯一不“封城”的地级市";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Xiangyang: How did it become the only city and county not to have been shut down in Hubei?
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
