1716例医护感染，到底是怎么发生的。
1716 cases of medical infection, exactly how it happened.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 黄霁洁 明鹊 朱莹 温潇潇 葛明宁特约撰稿 张小莲 实习生 张卓 沈青青 陈媛媛 蓝泽齐住院15天后，2020年2月1日，阳光明媚，湖北黄冈市中心医院的医生黄虎翔准备出院了。
Zhang Xiaolian intern Zhang Zhuo Shen Qingqing Chen Yuanyuan Liu Yuanyuan was hospitalized for 15 days. On February 1, 2020, the sun was bright and Huang Huxiang, a doctor at Huanggang Central Hospital in Hubei Province, was ready to be discharged.
他瘦了一些，洗了澡，换了衣服，戴上口罩，联系好社区的出租车，住到岳母的空房里，一个人隔离，在家看一张张病人的片子。
He lost some weight, bathed, changed his clothes, put on a mask, contacted the community taxi, lived alone in his mother-in-law's empty room, and watched individual patient films at home.
之前一年只休七天，他说，从医以来，从未休过如此漫长的假期。
He had taken only seven days off a year, he said, and had never taken such a long vacation since he was a doctor.
2月12日，和许多被感染的医护人员一样，结束隔离的黄虎翔回归医院，与同事一起再次投入对新冠肺炎患者的治疗。
On February 12, Huanghuxiang returned to the hospital, like many infected health workers, to rejoin his colleagues in the treatment of patients suffering from Newcrown Pneumonia.
这些患者里，可能包括他的同行，也是他的病友。
These patients may include his fellow patients, but also his patients.
2月14日，国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新在新闻发布会上透露，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊感染1716名，其中有6人不幸辞世。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, a total of 1,716 people had been diagnosed with infection by medical personnel nationwide, six of whom unfortunately died, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Council, told a news conference.
就在新闻发布会的这天，武汉武昌医院的一位护士柳帆又因感染新冠肺炎不治离世，仅四天后，2月18日，武昌医院的院长刘智明因感染新冠肺炎抢救无效逝世。
Liu Zhiming, a nurse at Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, died of pneumonia on Feb. 18, just four days after she died of pneumonia.
医护感染是如何发生的？回溯和审视这些，早期的“未设防”，疫情爆发后猛增的病人和相对不足的防护和人力，互为因果，又共同酿成了悲剧。
How do healthcare infections occur? Looking back and looking at these, the early "unguarded", the surge in patients and the relative lack of protection and manpower that followed the outbreak have both contributed to the tragedy.
刘智明 资料图始于12月：未设防的“人传人”距离华南海鲜市场300米，武汉市优抚医院是最早接收到新冠病毒信号的医院之一。
Liu Zhiming data map began in December: the unguarded "person-to-person" 300 meters from the South China seafood market, Wuhan Youcao Hospital is one of the first hospitals to receive the new crown virus signal.
去年12月12日，一位海鲜市场的商贩来就诊，身体不舒服，高烧不退。
Last December 12, a seafood market vendor came to see a doctor, not feeling well, high fever.
“主任聊了几句，建议他去后面的五医院或者中心医院”，在优抚医院工作了4年的护士王露说。
"The director talked a few words and advised him to go to the back of the five hospitals or the central hospital," said Wang Lu, a nurse who has worked in Youcao Hospital for four years.
优抚医院是一家以精神专科为主的二级医院。
Yucao Hospital is a level II hospital which is mainly specialized in psychiatry.
王露告诉澎湃新闻，因为距离海鲜市场近，商户们喜欢在医院停车场卸货，市场的蛇曾经钻到医院里来，要是有商户发烧感冒，优先会来优抚医院，“小医院人少，流程简单，挂个号，连队都不用排”。
Wang told the roar news that because of the proximity to the seafood market, merchants like to unload their cargo in the hospital parking lot, and snakes from the market once drilled into the hospital. If a merchant has a fever, he will visit the hospital first.
优抚医院一位门诊医生陆阳说，那段时间医院陆续接诊到一些“像是流感”的病人，医生们之间也在讨论。
Lu Yang, an out-patient doctor at Youcao Hospital, said doctors had been discussing "flu-like" cases at the hospital during that time.
“这些病人也不是难受也不是胸闷，都是发烧、咳嗽这些症状”，医生们会建议上CT，拍个胸片，但好多病人不会一下子就愿意做CT。
"These patients are not sick or chest tightness, they have a fever, cough," doctors will recommend CT, a chest film, but many patients will not be willing to do CT at once.
当时，对于新冠肺炎的传染性，即使是一些医护人员也无从知晓 。
At the time, even some health care workers were unaware of the infectious nature of pneumonia in the new crown.
优抚医院精神科病区一位医生透露，12月中旬，医院曾得到上级指示，大意是华南海鲜市场附近有肺炎个案，但不是非典，也没发现人传人。
A doctor from the psychiatric ward of Youcao Hospital said in mid-December that the hospital had received instructions to the effect that there had been pneumonia cases near the South China seafood market, but no human-to-human transmission had been found.
武汉市卫健委12月31日的通报再次强调了这点。
Wuhan city health committee December 31 briefing re-emphasized this point.
通报称，在全市医疗卫生机构开展与华南海鲜城有关联的病例搜索和回顾性调查，已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重，其余病例病情稳定可控，有2例病情好转拟于近期出院。
The notice said that a case-finding and retrospective investigation was carried out in the city's medical and health institutions in connection with Hai Xian City in South China. Of these, 27 cases were found, 7 of which were serious, the rest were stable and manageable, and 2 cases were expected to be released shortly.
到目前为止调查未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染。
To date, no significant human-to-human transmission has been observed and no infection by medical personnel has been observed.
这天是跨年夜，王露下了班，按照计划，她准备去华南海鲜市场买火锅底料和食材。
According to the plan, she was going to the South China Seafood Market to buy hot pot materials and ingredients.
转念，她想起主任在开晨会时提到“医院出现了疑似病例”，同事在微信群里极力劝说，王露担心起来，最终早早回了家。
Then she remembered that the director had mentioned at the morning meeting that there was a "suspected case in the hospital" and that her colleague had tried to persuade him in the crowd that Wang Lu worried and eventually returned home early.
没人料想到，病毒在悄无声息地蔓延。
No one expected the virus to spread quietly.
病人在短时间内涌入，与之相应的医院防护却慢了半拍。
The patient swarmed in at short notice, but the corresponding hospital protection slowed by half a beat.
2020年1月8日，湖北省第三人民医院紧急开放发热门诊，此前主要负责住院部的医生胡晟被临时调往门诊做负责人。
On 8 January 2020, the Third People's Hospital in Hubei Province opened a fever clinic on an emergency basis, and Zhisheng Hu, who had previously been primarily in charge of the inpatient department, was temporarily transferred to the outpatient department.
“刚开始的时候，都是I级防护，戴口罩。
"At first, they were level-I protective, wearing face masks.
”胡晟告诉澎湃新闻，到1月中旬，问题变得严重了，医院赶紧提升了防护等级。
By mid-January, the problem had become so serious that the hospital quickly upgraded its level of protection, Zhong told the roar news.
胡晟（左）和他的同事 。
Zhisheng Hu (left) and his colleagues.
图片来源：湖北省第三人民医院1月17日，优抚医院也大面积出现发烧、咳嗽的病人，CT结果显示异样。
Source: Hubei Third People's Hospital January 17, Youcao Hospital also has a large number of patients with fever, cough, CT results show something different.
“那时候我们用的都还是普通的医用口罩”，王露介绍说。
"At that time, we were using ordinary medical masks," Wang said.
在不设发热门诊的这家二级医院，防护等级跟上得更晚一些。
In this level II hospital, which does not have a fever clinic, the level of protection has been brought up to date.
同一时间，优抚医院出现了第一位疑似感染新冠肺炎的医生，让医护们警惕起来。
At the same time, the first doctor at Youcao Hospital was suspected of contracting pneumonia, alerting doctors.
医院的外科医生易立新对这一病例很熟悉，“当时没有核酸检测，CT是有侵蚀状的，3-4天中进展很快，出现临床症状，非常典型”，易立新觉察到情况危急，“但是上报后，因为没有核酸检测，上级部门不认同这个病例。
"There was no nucleic acid test, CT was erosive, there was rapid progress in 3-4 days, clinical symptoms were very typical," said Yi Lixin, a surgeon at the hospital.
”陆阳告诉记者，优抚医院较早申请了核酸检测，但卡在检测试剂很紧张的关头，一直没有拿到，医院第一批通过核酸检测确诊的病人直到1月23号上午才拿到结果。
Lu told reporters that Youcao Hospital had applied for nucleic acid tests earlier, but the cards were not available until the morning of January 23, when the first patients confirmed by a nucleic acid test were found.
易立新说，所幸医院反应快，17日就成立了隔离病房，叫停了这天的春节联欢会。
Yi Lixin said the hospital responded quickly, 17 on the establishment of isolation ward, stopped the day of the Spring Festival Gala.
在陆阳的记忆里，17号下午，医生们就往新建大楼的隔离病房里搬了物资，18号消毒，当天下午病人就住进去了。
In Luyang's memory, on the afternoon of the 17th, the doctors carried supplies to the isolation ward of the new building, disinfected it on the 18th, and the patient was admitted that afternoon.
优抚医院隔离病房，护士在护理病人。
The nurse nursed the patient in the isolation ward of the hospital.
受访者供图“我们在进呼吸科（隔离病房）的时候已经穿了隔离服，那个时候护目镜还有，我们和医院提出来，医院马上就把（防护）物资搞进来了”，陆阳回忆。
"We were wearing protective clothing when we entered the respiratory department [isolation ward]," the interviewee said. "Then the goggles and the hospital came up and the hospital immediately brought in the [protective] materials," Lu said.
当时上级部门提出排查新冠的标准之一，是华南海鲜市场接触史。
At that time, the higher authorities put forward one of the standards for the new crown, South China seafood market contact history.
但陆阳发现，一些没有接触史的病人CT也有问题。
But Lu Yang found that some patients who did not have a history of CT also have problems.
他们决定“先斩后奏”，把这些病人也收治进了隔离病房。
They decided to "behead" the patients were admitted to the isolation ward.
易立新透露，自那之后，优抚医院医护感染总人数大约50人，没有新发病例，都在慢慢痊愈。
Since then, about 50 people have been admitted to the hospital and there have been no new cases and they are slowly recovering, Yi said.
1月以后：病人激增，没有“一线”概念1月份，邻近优抚医院，距离华南海鲜市场大约1.5公里的武汉市中心医院发热病人激增。
Since January: There has been a surge in patients, with no "first line" concept. In January, there was a surge in fever cases at Wuhan Central Hospital, near Youcao Hospital, about 1.5 kilometers from the South China seafood market.
18日前后，中心医院疼痛科主任蔡毅接诊了一位疑似新冠肺炎的病人。
Around 18 days ago, Cai Yi, director of the pain department at the Central Hospital, attended a patient with suspected pneumonia.
令他纳闷的是，有些人开始没有症状，只是疼痛，后来拍了CT，他察觉到不对劲。
To his bewilderment, some people had no symptoms at first, just pain, but later took a CT, he sensed something was wrong.
蔡毅记得，那会儿大家不了解疫情，医护人员都没有戴口罩。
Cai Yi remembers that at that time people did not understand the epidemic, the medical staff are not wearing masks.
“这一病人感染了科室里的一位护士，目前护士仍在住院”，蔡毅透露，“李文亮医生发声后，我们最初都以为是造谣，上面也有领导这么说，直到后来我自己收了一个这样的病人，马上上报，才知道不是（谣传）。
"The patient infected a nurse in the department who is still in hospital," Cai Yi said. "When Dr. Li spoke, we thought it was a rumor.
”而李文亮自己，也在接诊一位“病毒性肺炎”患者后，出现咳嗽发热症状，1月12日入院治疗。
Li Wenliang himself, who was admitted to hospital on January 12 after receiving treatment for a "viral pneumonia" patient, developed cough and fever.
病人增多，人手不够，第二天，蔡毅关了科室，11个医生全部上了一线。
More patients, lack of staff, the next day, Cai Yi-guan department, all 11 doctors on the first line.
“潮水”，那是蔡毅想到大量病人出现时的第一个词，“那两天，30个病人，一下子就收满了。
"Tide," Cai Yi thought of a large number of patients appeared the first word, "those two days, 30 patients, immediately filled up.
”武汉中心医院后湖院区的急诊中心改为发热门诊，通往内科诊室的通道已关了灯。
The emergency center at the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital was converted into a fever clinic, and access to the internal medicine room was turned off.
澎湃新闻记者 葛明宁 图“疫情早期，还没有‘一线’概念，医院（按科室）照常工作，没人提防护，口罩是自己备的”，另一位在17日确知自己感染的中心医院医生尹文向澎湃新闻记者分析。
"In the early days of the epidemic, there was no 'first line' concept, hospitals (by department) were working as usual, no one took protection and the mask was self-contained," said Yin Win, a doctor at the central hospital who confirmed his infection on the 17th.
这解释了为何初期，一些急诊和呼吸科以外的普通科室反而成为医护感染的重灾区。
This explains why, in the early years, general departments other than the emergency and respiratory departments became the worst affected areas for medical attention.
“确实低估了传染性”，武汉市第一医院的内科医生林子宁也后知后觉病毒的“狡猾”。
"Really underestimated infectivity," said Lin Zining, a physician at Wuhan's First Hospital.
和普通民众一样，对呼吸道传染病并不熟悉的林子宁也是在新闻中得知新冠病毒出现在华南海鲜市场，“当时没有很害怕，1月初，还没听说这个疾病要死人。
Like the general public, Lin Zining, unfamiliar with respiratory infections, learned in the news that the new strain appeared in the South China seafood market.
平时我们工作中会用普通口罩戴两层，外科口罩也是从17、18号左右开始戴的。
We usually wear a two-layer mask at work. Surgical masks are also worn from around 17 or 18.
”林子宁对澎湃新闻记者指出，在第一医院，普通科室医护人员的感染率高于发热门诊，她认为这源于很多病人并不是因为发热就医，“例如他的症状是以腹泻为首发，后来才发现不是单纯的腹泻。
Lin told reporters in Peng Pai that the infection rate among medical staff in ordinary departments was higher in the first hospital than in the fever clinic, which she attributed to the fact that many patients did not seek medical treatment for fever.
”武汉大学中南医院在医学期刊《JAMA》发表的回顾性研究显示，1月1日到1月28日，该院138名确诊患者中，41%（57人）为院内感染，其中29%（40人）为医护人员。
A retrospective study by Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, published in the medical journal JAMA, showed that 41 percent (57) of the 138 patients diagnosed in the hospital between January 1 and January 28 were hospital infections, of whom 29 percent (40) were paramedics.
感染的医护人员中，来自普通科室的医护人员共31人，占77.5%，武汉大学中南医院重症医学科一病区1月22日，林子宁自己中了招，咳嗽不断，直至27日确诊入院。
Of the total number of infected medical personnel, 31 (77.5%) were from general departments and nurses. Lin Zining himself was admitted to hospital on January 22, 2006.
她能想起的传染源是之前接诊的一位病人，林子宁给他听诊，需要贴很近，病人当时正在说话。
The source of infection she could remember was a patient who had been treated before. Lin ZiNing gave him a stethoscope and needed to be close enough to speak.
彼时，普通科室没有防护服和护目镜，她的“装备”只有口罩、帽子、手套、隔离衣。
At the time, the general department did not have protective clothing and goggles, her "equipment" only masks, hats, gloves, protective clothing.
两天后，林子宁的眼睛球结膜开始出血。
Two days later, Lin Zining's conjunctiva began to bleed.
和林子宁类似，同济医院中法新城院区心血管内科医生周宁也是意外被感染。
Similar to Lin Zining, Tongji Hospital in the French New Town Cardiovascular Physician Zhou Ning is also an accidental infection.
1月17日，一位已经出现心源性休克症状的病人前来就诊，鉴于当时的肺炎疫情，周宁习惯性地询问有没有发热和华南海鲜市场暴露史，病人否认了，“但你不能太责怪病人，他入院时确实体温正常、没有咳嗽等症状，所以我们除了口罩帽子的日常防护之外，没有提高防护级别。
On January 17, a patient who had already developed symptoms of cardiac shock came to see the doctor. Given the pneumonia epidemic at the time, Zhou Ning habitually asked if there was any fever and exposure history in the South China seafood market.
”1月19日，手术顺利结束，21日出院时，病人突然告诉护士入院之前曾经发过烧，12月初还去过华南海鲜市场，“要命的是，他是厨师，经常会处理从华南海鲜市场流出来的活禽和野生动物”，周宁后来回忆。
"On January 19, the operation ended successfully, and by the time he left hospital on January 21, the patient had suddenly told the nurse that he had had a fever before admission and had been to the South China seafood market in early December.
当时，武汉的疫情已经扩散，周宁紧张起来，开始回想与病人的接触史和暴露风险——18日术前谈话时虽然戴着口罩，但没有保持1米的安全距离；手术成功后，周宁曾摘下口罩和他握手致意、交谈。
At that time, Wuhan epidemic has spread, Zhou Ning tense up, began to recall the patient's contact history and exposure - although wearing a mask before surgery 18, but did not maintain a safe distance of 1 meters; after the surgery, Zhou Ning took off his mask and shook hands with him.
周宁一下子感到自责，立即通知科室同事自行监测体温，加强防护。
Zhou Ning suddenly felt self-reproach, immediately informed the section colleagues to monitor their own body temperature, strengthen protection.
1月21日，周宁下了夜班，出现发热、恶心、腹泻、晕眩的症状，第二天血常规和CT结果表现为高度疑似，他开始居家隔离。
On 21 January, Zhou Ning left the night shift, showing signs of fever, nausea, diarrhoea and dizziness. The next day, blood routines and CT findings were highly suspicious.
新冠肺炎患者最初症状的模糊让不同科室的医护措手不及，直至1月20日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山在接受央视新闻采访时表示，新冠肺炎“肯定人传人”，明确存在14名医务人员感染。
The blurring of the initial symptoms caught doctors and nurses unprepared in different departments until Jan. 20, when Zhong Nan-shan, chairman of the high-level group of experts of the National Institutes of Health, told CCTV that there were 14 confirmed cases of infection among medical staff.
同日，国家卫健委发布1号公告，将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎纳入《中华人民共和国传染病防治法》规定的乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施。
On the same day, the State Health Council issued Notice No. 1, adding pneumonia infected by the new coronavirus to the Class B infectious diseases as stipulated in the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, and adopted preventive and control measures for Class A infectious diseases.
澎湃新闻查询发现，这一时间前，医护人员感染人数已较快攀升。
Query of the news found that before this time, the number of health-care workers has been rising rapidly.
1月29日，《新英格兰医学杂志》发表了一份由中国疾控中心、湖北省疾控中心等单位人员撰写的研究报告。
On January 29, the New England Journal of Medicine published a study by the China CDC, Hubei Province CDC and others.
报告对截至2020年1月23日向中国疾病预防控制中心上报的425例新冠病毒感染患者进行了分析，发现在1月1日之前发病的确诊病例中没有医护人员；而在1月1日-11日之间，医护人员占确诊患者比例达3%；在1月12日之后，比例增加到了7%。
The report analysed 425 cases of new crown virus infection reported to the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as at 23 January 2020 and found that there were no health-care personnel in confirmed cases before 1 January; between 1 and 11 January, health-care personnel accounted for 3 per cent of confirmed cases; after 12 January, the proportion increased to 7 per cent.
而截至2月14日，中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金资助名单所公布的278名被感染的医护人员中，大量在18日后被确诊感染，2月5日后，确诊人数下降。
As of February 14, a large number of the 278 infected healthcare personnel listed in the CHRF's Humanitarian Aid Fund for Byte Beat Medical Workers had been confirmed infected after 18 days. After February 5, the number of confirmed cases decreased.
278名被感染医护，确诊感染时间分布；数据来源：中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金资助名单（截至2月14日） 制图：蓝泽齐278名被感染医护，供职医院分布；数据来源：中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金资助名单（截至2月14日） 制图：蓝泽齐1月24日除夕，周宁出现疑似症状的第四天，因为工作和学习10年没和父母一起吃年夜饭，为了一了父母的心愿，不让他们伤心，周宁戴着双层口罩，坐在餐桌旁，保持了一米的安全距离，“看”了一桌丰盛的年夜饭，筷子没动一下。
Source: Humanitarian Aid Fund of Chinese Red Cross Foundation for Byte Beating Medical Workers (as of February 14) Mapping: 278 infected medical workers in Lanzezi, working in hospitals; Source: CHINA CHINA CHINA CHINESE CHINESE CHARGE FUND FOR HUMANITARIAN SOLIDAY, 14 FEBRUARY.
周宁后来在自己的公众号上自述：强忍泪水的笑脸之下，我知道爸妈心里该是有多难受和担心。
Zhou Ning later wrote on his public address: "Under the smiling face of trying to resist tears, I know how upset and worried my parents really are."
……每当我回家手舞足蹈地告诉他们我今天救活了哪个病人，每当我发表了论文、捧回了奖杯、得到了表扬，还有当我哭笑不得地拎回了病人送的土鸡蛋，他们脸上总是笑开了花。
Every time I come home and tell them which patient I saved today, every time I publish a paper, bring back trophies, get praise, and bring home the earthen eggs that my patients sent me, their faces always smile.
但更多的时候，我带给他们的不是荣耀，而是无尽的担忧、害怕。
But more often than not, I bring them not glory, but endless worry and fear.
……我不能指望老人们能理解我们。
I can't expect the old people to understand us.
作为同济医院的医生，我们要承担的任务，远远不止看几个病人、做几个手术这么简单。
As a doctor at Tongji Hospital, we have to take on tasks that go far beyond seeing a few patients and performing several operations.
就像这一次疫情当头，作为暴风眼中的医院，同济是稳定疫情的基石，是镇定军心的旗舰，也是指挥战役的前哨。
Like this time around, as a hospital in the eye of the storm, Tongji is the cornerstone of stabilizing the epidemic, the flagship of calm and the outpost for conducting campaigns.
我们的使命注定更多、更重。
Our mission is destined to be greater and heavier.
“看”完年夜饭，我又开车回到了隔离屋。
After the New Year's Eve dinner, I drove back to the segregation room.
苦战1月：防护“黑洞”与“超载”工作“就地转岗。
Bitter Battle January: Protect "black hole" and "overload" work "on the spot transfer."
”何军是武汉一家三甲医院的医生，1月17日上午，全院开会，宣布科室重排；当日下午，何军进入新成立的感染二科。
He Jun, a doctor at a Wuhan Three-A Hospital, met on the morning of January 17 to announce the department's reorganization.
病人数量只增未减，“一线”被不断扩充——这意味着越来越多的定点医院、被临时改造的病房和紧急接受培训的各科室医护人员。
The number of patients has only increased, and the "first line" has been expanding - meaning more and more designated hospitals, makeshift wards, and emergency training for all sections and staff.
但武汉原有的传染病防护资源有限。
But Wuhan original infectious disease protection resources are limited.
在武汉市中心医院南京路院区重症医学科工作了近11年的护士朱诚分析，这是即使一些定点医院也无法接收病人的原因，“按传染病房标准来设置的医院不多，除了金银潭医院和肺科医院，其他医院临时改造的病房不一定能达到标准。
Zhu Cheng, a nurse who has worked in the intensive care department of Nanjing Road Hospital for nearly 11 years, explains why even some designated hospitals are unable to accept patients.
”1月24日除夕傍晚，何军已连轴转了一周，一天睡2-3小时，门诊病人最多时一天有350-370个。
On the evening of January 24, He Jun had been working around the clock for two to three hours a day, with a maximum of 350 to 370 outpatient visits a day.
躺在病房外的沙发上，何军向澎湃新闻吐露多日的担忧，声音嘶哑：医院里用担架、轮椅将重症病人运入隔离病房，没有专用电梯，只有经过医护通道，消毒难以及时跟上。
Lying on the sofa outside the hospital room, He Jun confided for days to the roaring news, hoarse and hoarse: the hospital used stretchers and wheelchairs to bring seriously ill patients into the isolation ward, no special elevators, only after medical access, sterilization could not keep up in time.
呼吸道传染病房的设置遵循“三区两通道”原则，即清洁区、缓冲区、污染区与医患分开的两条通道，而在一些紧急时刻，这些分界并不明晰，暴露出院内交叉感染的隐患。
Respiratory infectious disease rooms are set up in accordance with the principle of "three zones, two corridors," that is, a clean area, a buffer zone, a contaminated area and a separate hospital from patients. In some emergency situations, these boundaries are unclear, exposing the potential for cross-infection in the hospital.
武汉一家三甲中医院的急诊科护士吴悦在24日接受澎湃新闻采访时也提到，她所在的急诊科当时不具备相应的隔离条件，黑压压的病人聚集，“高度疑似患者自由地走来走去。
Wu Yue, an emergency nurse at a three-a-year-old hospital in Wuhan, told reporters Monday that her emergency department did not have the appropriate isolation conditions.
”当时科室的防护只有手术衣，数量有限，仅能提供抢救的医护人员穿。
The department's protective clothing, limited in number, could only be worn by rescue workers.
吴悦透露，元旦过后，医院内部即公布了新冠病毒人传人的消息，“但是不允许拍照、不允许录音、不允许外传。
Wu Yue revealed that after the New Year's Day, the hospital announced the new crown virus person-to-person message, "but not allowed to take photos, record, or spread.
”即便如此，物资也无法立即到位。
Even so, supplies were not immediately available.
正是同一时期，防护物资开始肉眼可见地告急。
It was at the same time that the protection began to become visible and visible.
1月23日，湖北省中医院、武汉协和医院、武汉大学中南医院、武汉市中心医院、武汉市第一医院、武汉市第三医院等8家医院相继对外发出公告，呼吁社会捐赠N95口罩、防护服等物资。
On January 23, eight hospitals, including Hubei Chinese Hospital, Wuhan Hsiao Wo Hospital, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan Central Hospital, Wuhan First Hospital and Wuhan Third Hospital issued notices calling on the public to donate N95 masks and protective clothing.
“节约，再节约，能多穿半个小时就穿半个小时……”护士长催何军。
"Save, save again, can wear half an hour more in half an hour..." The head nurse urged him.
何军已很难顾及防护服需4小时更换的时限，通常，防护服会分配给更急需的医护，“护士要给病人输液，近距离接触，更危险；一些为病人插管的医生也会优先穿，以防病人有分泌物喷溅出来”，他介绍。
It is difficult for any army to take into account the four-hour replacement time frame for protective clothing, which is usually allocated to more urgent medical care. "Nurses need to give fluid to patients, close contact is more dangerous, and some doctors who intubate patients will be preferred to prevent patients from having secretions spilling out," he said.
何军隔天回家洗澡，衣服全部晒完之后，还用火烤，“病毒怕热。
He came home the next day to take a bath, all the clothes after the sun, but also baked with fire, "the virus afraid of heat.
”从浴室里出来，何军立刻吃两片安定。
"Coming out of the bathroom, He ate two tablets of stability immediately.
睡不着，但他必须要入睡，不然无法保证免疫力。
He can't sleep, but he has to fall asleep or he can't guarantee immunity.
疫情蔓延，医院人手紧张，医护人员往往超负荷工作。
The epidemic is spreading, hospitals are understaffed and medical staff are often overworked.
1月5日，黄冈市中心医院医生黄虎翔在呼吸科接诊了第一位发热病人，1月15日左右，中心医院被设为定点医院，病人一天天增多。
January 5, Huanggang City Central Hospital doctor Huang Huxiang in the respiratory department to receive the first fever patients, around January 15, the central hospital was set up as a designated hospital, the number of patients day by day increased.
黄虎翔后来回想，那段时间病患多，可能不小心接触到感染患者，又经常加班，免疫力也下降。
Huang later recalled that the period of patients, may be careless contact with infected patients, and often overtime, immunity has declined.
在黄虎翔被感染前，科室里24个医护人员中，已有2名护士、1名医生被感染。
Before Huang was infected, two nurses and a doctor had been infected out of 24 medical workers in the department.
武汉大学中南医院急救中心护士郭琴也忆起被感染时可能不足的免疫力。
Guoqin, a nurse at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, also recalls her possible lack of immunity when infected.
1月初，正是流感、心脑疾病高发期。
In early January, it was the height of flu and heart disease.
1月6日，医院里来了位50多岁的重症患者，郭琴参与了紧急抢救。
On January 6, a critically ill patient in his fifties arrived at the hospital. Guo took part in the emergency rescue.
之后一周，她又接触到四五位后来被确诊为新冠肺炎的患者。
A week later, she came in contact with four or five patients who were later diagnosed with pneumonia.
那阵子，她每天工作十几个小时，只能睡四五个小时，感觉很疲惫。
She had been working more than ten hours a day for four or five hours, and she felt very tired.
郭琴成了中南医院首个被感染的医护人员。
Guo Qinan became the first hospital in South China to be infected with medical personnel.
1月13日，住院第一晚，郭琴彻夜失眠。
January 13, the first night in hospital, Guo Qinchen sleepless night.
耳边，回响着治疗推车走动的声音，监护仪器的响声，和护士急匆匆的脚步声。
Ears echoed the sound of the treatment trolley moving, the sound of monitoring equipment, and the nurse's hasty steps.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇向澎湃新闻记者介绍，郭琴感染后，医院开始重视防护措施，“之后各医院的医护人员都很警惕，我们会注重戴口罩、洗手，避免人员接触，医护人员吃饭时也背对背，彼此距离一两米左右。
Pang Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told Pong Pai reporters that after Guo's infection, the hospital began to attach importance to protective measures.
”感染新冠肺炎痊愈后返岗的护士郭琴。
"Nurse Guo Qin returned to work after recovering from pneumonia in the New Crown.
受访者供图1月底至2月：“还在顶着”，“支援来了”印象中，林子宁只知道自己是第一医院第一批倒下的医护，在她之前已有同事被感染。
From the end of January to February: "Still in the middle," Lin Zi-Ning only knew that he was the first one to fall down in the hospital. Before her, colleagues had been infected.
林子宁回忆，武汉市第一医院在20号设立发热门诊后，在发热门诊和发热病房配发防护服、护目镜，“估计基本可以保障，但是其他科室可能就有点跟不上。
After setting up a fever clinic at No. 20, Lin Zining recalled, Wuhan No. 1 Hospital distributed protective clothing and goggles in the fever clinic and the fever ward. "It's basically guaranteed, but other sections may be a bit behind.
”从1月27日确诊住院至今，她的病情反反复复，但更多的时候，她想的不是自己。
"Since being admitted to hospital on January 27, her condition has been repeated time and again, but more often than not, she is not thinking about herself.
“每天看着一线的同事那么辛苦，心里面很难受。
"It hurts to look at a line of colleagues so hard every day.
”林子宁说，她现在每天也换口罩，只要医护人员进来，就算在吃饭，也要把口罩戴起来，就怕他们也被感染了。
Lin Zining says she also changes masks every day and wears them even during meals, as long as paramedics come in, lest they get infected.
各医院的防护等级渐渐达标，物资缺口还是最头痛的难题。
The level of protection in hospitals gradually up to standard, the material gap is the most difficult headache.
武汉市第一医院在23日第一次宣告物资短缺后，又于1月26日、2月10日再次求援。
Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 in 23 after the first declaration of shortages, on 26 January, 10 February again for help.
这几天，来打针的护士带着不符合规格的口罩，林子宁问起来，她们只是说：“哎呀，每天都在变。
Over the past few days, when the nurses came to the hospital wearing masks that did not meet the specifications, Lin Zi-Ning asked, "Oh, it changes every day.
”她们乐观、坦然，让林子宁很感动。
"They are optimistic, calm, let Lin Zining very moved.
只有一次，她意识到自己曾离死亡很近。
Only once did she realize that she had been very close to death.
一天清晨近5点，她觉得乏力，缺氧，迷迷糊糊在睡觉，没听到对面床的重症病人被宣告临床死亡。
One morning near 5 a.m., she felt weak, anoxic, dazed in sleep, and did not hear the critically ill patient in the opposite bed pronounced clinically dead.
林子宁没看见他的脸，直到殡仪馆过来接人，才知道这一消息。
Lin Zining did not see his face, until the funeral parlour to pick up people, only to know the news.
林子宁体质不好，原有哮喘，此后呼吸特别困难时，她会在心底生出害怕。
Lin Zining constitution is not good, original asthma, after breathing especially difficult, she will be born in the bottom of her heart fear.
何军的一位搭档在科室成立第一天接诊发热病人后，浑身酸疼、发烧，确诊感染新冠肺炎，有病人离世，“腾出”一张床，搭档成了他的病人。
A partner of He Jun received a fever patient on the first day of the department. He was sore, feverish, diagnosed with pneumonia, had a patient die, "made up" a bed, and became his patient.
一个月来，他所在医院的防护物资依然短缺。
For a month, his hospital was still short of protective equipment.
2月初，科室的防护服已耗尽，医护们只能穿着蓝色的隔离衣进入重症病房。
By early February, the department's protective clothing had run out and doctors and nurses were forced to enter the intensive care unit in blue.
2月9日，何军也感染了，他向记者发来CT报告单，“自己给自己看病。
February 9, He Jun also infected, he sent a CT report to reporters, "to see his own doctor.
”笔记本上，他细细写好接下来要服用的药物，为自己开了吊瓶。
In his notebook, he wrote down the next medicine he would take and opened a bottle for himself.
2月16日，澎湃新闻回访吴悦，她也确诊感染了新冠肺炎，于2月初住院治疗。
On February 16, news surged back to Wu Yue, who was also confirmed to have contracted pneumonia and was hospitalized in early February.
“前几天做CT，肺部磨玻璃状还在涨”，吴悦对澎湃新闻说。
"A few days ago did CT, the lung grinds the vitreous still to rise," Wu Yue told the surging news.
她用了14天的激素治疗，“脚背的趾头、踝关节都疼，晚上稍微动一下，不停地出虚汗。
She was treated with 14 days of hormone therapy. "Her toes and ankles hurt on the instep, and she sweats a little at night.
早上把衣服换下来，搓一下，我的呼吸就跟不上来，要吸氧、躺好半天，才能缓过来。
Change clothes in the morning, rub, my breathing will not keep up with you, to absorb oxygen, lie down for a long time, to recover.
”“武汉一线医护人员物资仍有较大缺口”，2月11日，湖北省卫生计生宣传教育中心运营的“健康湖北”公号再次公布武汉25家医院受捐公告。
"There is still a big gap in supplies for first-line medical personnel in Wuhan." On February 11, the Hubei Health Education and Education Center in Hubei Province once again announced the receipt of donations from 25 hospitals in Wuhan.
那时，武汉市中心医院剩下的物资指日可数，医护只能在工业N95口罩外面加一层外科口罩。
At that time, Wuhan city central hospital leftover supplies, medical care can only in the N95 industrial mask on the outside of a surgical mask.
“外科口罩防水、防液体喷溅，工业N95只能防油性颗粒、雾霾等”，中心医院负责物资联络的医生黄磊介绍。
"Surgical masks are waterproof, liquid-proof, industrial N95 can only prevent oil particles, haze and so on," said Huang Lei, a doctor in charge of material contact at the central hospital.
“医用N95口罩非常少，每天给我们发200、300个，要用4000个，怎么够呢？每天防护服要发出去2300套。
"There are very few medical N95 masks. We are given 200 or 300 masks every day, and they use 4,000.
我们要屯10天的量，所以防护服至少要准备20000套，口罩要准备40000个。
We have 10 days to take, so get at least 20,000 suits and 40,000 masks ready.
”黄磊在2月11日对澎湃新闻表示，她的电话在近日被“打爆了”，“我们也在收民间捐助，但是消耗太大，合格的物资产量本身就不高，肯定是不够的。
Huang told the roaring news on Feb. 11 that her phone calls had been "blown up" in recent days and that "we are also receiving donations from the civil society, but the consumption is so high that the production of qualified goods by itself is not enough."
”武汉市中心医院受捐公告澎湃新闻获取的一份武汉市中心医院物资需求清单显示，从防护类用品的每日消耗量来看，医用防护服2280件，N95口罩4560个，一次性隔离衣4560件，医用防护靴套2280双，防护面屏2280个。
A list of material requirements for Wuhan Central Hospital, obtained by Wuhan Central Hospital under the donations notice, showed that the daily consumption of protective equipment included 2,280 medical protective suits, 4,560 N95 masks, 4,560 disposable protective clothing, 2280 pairs of medical boots and 2,280 face screens.
2月17日，中心医院负责物资联络的医生胡晓松告诉记者，现在物资情况好转了一些，政府定向捐助和民间捐助多了起来，“但N95口罩还是比较缺，一线医护人员的外科口罩、隔离衣可以保障了。
On February 17, Hu Xiaosong, a doctor in charge of material contacts at the Central Hospital, told reporters that the material situation had improved somewhat and that targeted government and private donations had increased.
”过去一个多月，中心医院至少150名职工确诊或疑似感染新冠肺炎，受访的两位中心医院医生向澎湃新闻证实了这一数字。
Doctors at the two central hospitals interviewed confirmed the number of confirmed or suspected cases of New Crown Pneumonia among at least 150 staff in the central hospital over the past month.
“后湖院区19-21楼，每楼有半个病区是本院职工，每半个病区编制47张床，不包括轻症没住院的”，另一位感染新冠病毒的中心医院后湖院区医生尹文对澎湃新闻说。
"Houhu courtyard 19-21 floor, half of each floor is hospital staff, every half-sick area of the establishment of 47 beds, not including light cases not hospitalized," another infection of the new crown virus central hospital Houhu District Doctor Yin Wen told Peng Pai News.
多位中心医院医生证实，该院眼科、心胸外科、泌尿外科的三位大夫，一位上了呼吸机，两位在靠ECMO（人工肺）维持生命。
Doctors at the central hospital confirmed that three of the hospital's ophthalmologists, cardio-thoracic surgery and urology doctors, one on a ventilator and two on ECMO (artificial lung) for life.
在重症病房的护士朱诚没想到，最后送进来的会是昔日的同事。
Chu Cheng, a nurse in the intensive care unit, did not expect that the last person brought in would be a former colleague.
医护人员感染，进一步加剧人手不足，蔡毅见过护士长的哭，“她没有感染，是她底下的人感染了，其实她也一直在咳嗽，但肺部没有感染，所以每天还在顶着。
Cai Yi had seen the head nurse cry. "She is not infected. The person under her has contracted the infection. She has been coughing but her lungs are not infected.
”2月之后：“期盼医务人员零感染”2月7日，跟随上海第四批援鄂医疗队出发去武汉时，陈翔压力很大，“都期盼医务人员零感染。
After February: "Looking forward to zero infection among medical staff" On February 7, Chen Xiang was under great pressure as he set out for Wuhan with the fourth contingent of medical aid workers in Shanghai.
”陈翔是上海中山医院院感科的医生。
Chen Xiang is a doctor at Zhongshan Hospital in Shanghai.
院感，即对医院内部发生的感染进行有效的控制。
Hospital sense, that is to say, the hospital inside the infection to carry out effective control.
疫情中的医护感染将被忽视的院感问题带出水面，此次各地支援武汉医疗队中增添了专业的院感科医生。
Health care infection in the outbreak will be neglected to bring the hospital out of the water, this time support Wuhan medical team to add professional hospital sensorial doctors.
平日里，院感科的工作大多是预防患者因长期住院导致的交叉感染，在医务人员方面，院感科会关注医生护士护理病人时的接触预防、无菌操作，“很少遇到这样大型的传染病，医护人员周围都是确诊的传染病人”，陈翔对澎湃新闻说。
On the medical staff side, the department pays close attention to the preventive and sterile handling of patients by doctors and nurses. "Very few cases of such a large infectious disease are surrounded by confirmed infectious diseases," Chen told Pai Pai News.
培训时，她能感受到团队里医护人员对防护的重视，“一个人穿防护服，旁边的人都会帮忙看对不对，有没有包严”，这让她觉得欣慰。
In training, she can feel the team of health care workers to the importance of protection, "a person wearing protective clothing, the people will help to see if the right, there is no strict package," which she was pleased.
成员大多年轻，没有经历过2003年的非典，很少有感染防控经验——有的医护觉得一层口罩不够安全，就戴两层，“这是不可以的，随着活动肯定会错位或移动，漏气就相当于白戴”；有的医护会把护目镜戴在防护服外面，“摘掉护目镜后，脱防护服时眼睛就没有受到保护。
Most members are young, do not experience SARS in 2003, have little experience of infection prevention and control - some medical staff feel that a mask is not safe enough to wear two layers. "This is not allowed, as the activity is bound to be misplaced or moved and leaks amount to nothing.
”陈翔介绍，感染防控是一个全套的流程，到达武汉后，她最先投入到医疗人员居住的酒店、上下班的公交车的防护中，感控措施包括消毒、避免人员接触等等。
Chen Xiang said infection control was a complete process and that on arrival in Wuhan, she was the first to put her foot in the door of a hotel and commuter bus, which includes disinfection and avoidance of personal contact.
到达武汉大学人民医院东院后，她也亲眼见到当地硬件条件的滞后，普通病房很多是临时搭建，区域之间做不到完全密封；理论上从清洁区进出污染区，有两个分开的缓冲区，但医院里只有一个，有人在穿脱防护服时，还会有其他人进出，风险重重。
Arriving at the East Campus of Wuhan University People's Hospital, she saw with her own eyes the lag in local hardware, many of which were makeshift and could not be fully sealed between the areas; theoretically, there were two separate buffer zones from the clean area to the contaminated area, but there was only one hospital, and others would enter and leave while wearing protective clothing.
医护人员齐心协力救治一个危重患者。
The paramedics worked together to treat a critically ill patient.
中山医院 供图陈翔只有从最原始的方法开始改进：门与门之间的缝隙拿胶带贴，进入缓冲区前要求先敲门……实操起来也有困难。
Only in the most primitive way can Chen Xiang improve: Tape tape the gap between the door and the door. Knock on the door before entering the buffer zone.
在污染区，长时间工作，穿着防护服呼吸发闷，体力也吃不消，一些医护人员会急于脱掉；在实际工作中一般是一个人脱，没有办法互相监控、监督，而脱防护服往往是风险较大的环节，需要缓慢细致来保证安全。
In polluted areas, long hours of work, stuffy breath in protective clothing and physical strain may cause some health-care workers to take them off in a hurry; in practice, they are usually left alone, unable to monitor and supervise each other, and the removal of protective clothing is often a risky process that requires slow and careful attention to ensure safety.
陈翔临时去家具店买了全身镜摆在缓冲区，让医护慢慢对镜操作，医院也安排护士长和专门的感控护士一起配合监督。
Chen Xiang temporary to the furniture store bought full-length mirrors placed in the buffer zone, so that medical care slowly mirror operation, the hospital also arranged nurses and specialized sensorial nurses to cooperate with supervision.
陈翔知道，感染控制在于把控细节中的每一个风险，“管天管地管空气”，她这样笑称院感的工作，“精准、科学的防护也很重要，无需过度防护，例如在清洁区，一般要求戴外科口罩，穿工作服。
Chen Xiang knows that infection control lies in putting every risk in the details of the control, "tube tube holds the air," a job she calls courtyard work. "Precise, scientific protection is also important and does not require excessive protection, such as wearing surgical masks and working clothes in clean areas.
”医疗队带了一部分物资接管病区，缓解了物资的紧张，只是仍要吃紧着用。
The medical team took part of the supplies to take over the area, relieving the strain but still having to tighten its grip.
每天，陈翔会从医护人员那里拿到不同标准的防护服，她要一一审核，除了查看检测报告，还需要检查包装是否破损，使用期限是否过期。
Every day, Chen Xiang would receive different standard protective clothing from medical staff. She would have to check each of them. In addition to checking the test report, she would also need to check whether the packaging was broken and the expiry date.
最初物资缺乏，她和医疗队刚来时，没有长筒的鞋套，就用医用垃圾袋替代，厚实一些；没有N95口罩，就戴工业口罩，外科口罩戴在外面，效果会好一些。
When she and the medical team first arrived, she didn't have a long-barrelled shoe cover, so she replaced it with a heavy medical bag. Without the N95 mask, she wore an industrial mask, and the surgical mask on the outside would have worked better.
她很难判定，此前大量医护人员感染是源于哪一个环节，“特别是这种经过呼吸道传播的疾病，一点点的漏洞也许就会被感染”，这让陈翔感到难受，“每一个数字对我来说都很心痛，都是我们的战友，而且我们也可能会变成其中的一个。
"Especially this respiratory disease, a little bit of vulnerability may be infected," Chen said. "Every number hurts me, is our comrade-in-arms, and we could be one of them.
”回望2003年的非典疫情，医务人员感染多发于疫情初期。
Looking back at the SARS epidemic in 2003, there was a high incidence of infection among medical staff in the early stages.
北大附属人民医院在2003年3月15日收治了一位疑似SARS患者后，没有采取严格防控措施，直至93名医护感染，4月24日，整座医院被隔离；而在后期建立的小汤山医院，参与治疗和护理的1383名医护人员中，无一人被感染。
After treating a suspected SARS patient on March 15, 2003, Peking University's affiliated People's Hospital did not take stringent control measures until 93 patients were infected. On April 24, the whole hospital was quarantined.
“相比SARS期间，我们对院感的重视有了非常大的进步”，陈翔说，“理论上来说，只要做好防护，是可以保证医护人员不被感染的。
"Compared to the SARS period, we have made great progress in our emphasis on hospital care," Chen said. "Theoretically, just being well protected can keep health care workers from getting infected.
”如今，陈翔最害怕医疗队成员工作时间长了以后逐渐麻木，有一些细节会松懈。
Today, Chen is most afraid that members of the medical team will become numb as they work longer hours, and that some details will slacken.
她每天在群里发信息，叮嘱感控的要点，测量体温，提醒有不舒服的医护及时上报，先休息。
She sends messages in the group every day, instructing sensitive points, taking body temperature, alerting the unwell medical staff to report back immediately and take a rest first.
目前，医疗队136名队员没有感染，她做好了长久作战的准备，最终能带队员平安回家，“这是我的使命啊。
Now that 136 members of the medical team are uninfected, she is ready for a long battle and will eventually be able to bring her team home safely.
”尾声2月1日，周宁治愈，隔离至2月9日，回到同济医院光谷院区上班。
On February 1, Zhou Ning was cured and quarantined until February 9, returning to work in the Guanggu compound of Tongji Hospital.
周宁说，后期医院的防护措施加强，医护感染人数渐渐下降。
Zhou Ning said that the protection measures of late hospital were strengthened and the number of patients with medical infection gradually decreased.
中国疾病预防控制中心新型冠状病毒肺炎应急响应机制流行病学组在《中华流行病学杂志》上发表的最新研究显示，至2月11日，在为新冠肺炎患者提供诊治服务的422家医疗机构中，共有3019名医务人员感染了新型冠状病毒。
According to the latest study published in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology by the Epidemiology Unit of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia, a total of 3,019 medical personnel in 422 medical institutions providing treatment for patients with New Coronavirus contracted the new coronavirus, according to the latest study published in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology.
其中，武汉市感染新冠肺炎的医务人员中，重症比例从1月1日-10日期间最高38.9%逐渐下降，到2月上旬为12.7%。
Among the medical staff infected with Newly Coronary Pneumonia in Wuhan, the proportion of severe cases declined gradually from 38.9% between January 1 and 10 to 12.7% in early February.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉在受访中解释称，疾控中心公布的医护人员感染数据来源于直报系统，该系统只会显示感染病例的身份和是否感染。
In the interview, Jia Yahui, deputy director of the National Health and Wellness Commission, explained that the CDC's data on health-care workers' infection came from the Direct Reporting System, which showed only the identity and infection of infected patients.
前述3000多人中，有些医护人员是在医院、在工作岗位上感染了新冠肺炎病毒，还有一些医护人员可能是在家庭或社区感染了新冠肺炎病毒。
Some of the more than 3,000 have contracted the new crown pneumonia virus in hospitals and at work, while others may have contracted the virus at home or in the community.
在医院防护加强的同时，增援力量也在充实。
The strengthening of hospital protection has been accompanied by the reinforcement of the force.
从1月24日除夕夜到2月15日，全国各级医院共派出203支医疗队、25424名医疗队员支援武汉。
From January 24 to February 15, hospitals at all levels sent 203 medical teams and 25,424 medical personnel to support Wuhan.
在家隔离时，周宁脑海中闪过回忆，2003年非典时他刚结束临床实习，没想到这次就上了前线。
At home isolation, Zhou Ning flashback, in 2003 when he just finished clinical practice, did not expect this time on the front line.
现在，医疗队来支援后，病房情况有所缓解，但要盯疫情一线和日常科室班，人手还是不太够，排班常常排不过来。
Now, with the support of the medical team, the situation in the ward has eased somewhat, but it is still not staffed enough to keep pace with the epidemic situation.
陈翔也感受到，医院内护工或保洁人员紧缺，卫生消毒、病人个人护理都靠护士负责，导致护士的工作量非常大，这是她来武汉前没有想到的。
Chen Xiang also felt that the shortage of nursing staff or cleaning staff in the hospital, sanitary disinfection, personal care of patients rely on nurses, resulting in a very heavy workload, which she did not think of before coming to Wuhan.
林子宁仍在医院住院，病情在往好的方向发展，“就想快点投入到工作中，让辛苦的同事尽量休息下。
Lin Zining is still hospitalized in the hospital, his condition is developing in a better direction. "I want to get into work quickly and let my hard-working colleagues rest as much as possible.
”吴悦有些担忧康复后的生活质量和工伤认定，她期望出院后，能健康地在岗位上工作。
"Wu was worried about the quality of life and work injuries after her recovery and looked forward to working in her position when she was discharged from the hospital.
蔡毅说，医院已安排第一批医护人员换岗休息，他还想继续撑着，就希望物资充足，“继续战斗下去。
Cai said the hospital had arranged for the first batch of medical staff to be off duty. He wanted to stay the course, hoping that supplies would be sufficient.
”他念着，疫情结束后，最想吃宵夜，喝啤酒，武汉市民喜欢吃喝玩闹。
After the epidemic ended, he read, people in Wuhan liked to eat, drink and play with beer.
他还想回到科室开刀，做回一个疼痛科医生。
He also wants to go back to the department to operate as a pain doctor.
（王露、易立新、陆阳、林子宁、朱诚、何军、吴悦、尹文为化名）本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
(Wang Lu, Yi Lixin, Lu Yang, Lin Zining, Zhu Shing, He Jun, Wu Yue, Yin as an alias).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1716例医护感染，到底是怎么发生的。
1716 cases of medical infection, exactly how it happened.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "1716例医护感染，到底是怎么发生的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 1716 medical infections, and exactly how & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "被“新冠”击中的医护们";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by Newcrown.
title: '中央点名！孝感黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等措施',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
