我去建“雷神山”这事，别告诉你妈。
I'm going to build Raytheon Mountain. Don't tell your mother.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“妻子事后回想起来，怪不得当时家里一会儿少个剃须刀，一会儿少个充电器。
"In retrospect, no wonder my wife had fewer razors and a few chargers.
等到她早上起床，发现人不见了，车子也不见了。
When she got up in the morning, she found the man was missing and the car was gone.
—全民故事计划的第440个故事—一李哥决定去武汉，是一件很突然的事。
Brother Li decided to go to Wuhan. It was quite a surprise that he decided to go to Wuhan.
如同他眼中的疫情，才刚点上火就猛地烧开了。
Like the outbreak in his eyes, it burst into flames as soon as it was lit.
他第一次听说疫情，都到了1月21日晚上的9点37分。
The first time he heard of the outbreak, it was 9: 37 p.m. on January 21st.
有人在朋友圈里卖口罩，说库存有限，备好过年。
Some people in the circle of friends to sell masks, said limited stocks, ready for the New Year.
他没抢口罩，也没买酒精，这世界成天各种消息此起彼伏，他觉得这事跟他应该也没什么关系。
He didn't take a mask, he didn't buy alcohol, and the world was full of news all day, and he didn't think it had anything to do with him.
直到1月27号，他的朋友圈有人发了一条消息：招募志愿者，支援火神山。
Then, on January 27th, someone from his circle of friends sent a message that he was recruiting volunteers to support Mount Fire.
李哥看了建设的照片，觉得这事他能干。
Rigo looked at the picture of the construction and thought he could do it.
李哥是湖南郴州人，今年48岁了，前半生的一大半时间都跟地板有关。
Li Ge, a Chenzhou resident in Hunan province, is 48 years old and spent most of the first half of his life related to the floor.
九十年代末下岗潮，二十几岁的李哥刚好跟国企的厂子结束了三年的合同期，在继续找份工作和做生意之间，他听了邻居浙江人的话，选择了后者。
After a layoff wave in the late 1990s, Li Ge, in his twenties, ended his three-year contract with a state-owned enterprise. As he continued to look for a job and a business, he listened to his neighbor, Zhejiang, and chose the latter.
一开始，李哥在建材市场开小货车，瞅着木地板比瓷砖好些，不用库存，就跟老婆开了个门店，算正式入了这行。
At first, Li Ge in the building materials market opened a pickup truck, watching wood floor is better than ceramic tile, do not need inventory, opened a shop with his wife, calculate to enter this business officially.
时代变化快，到了2012年，他在网上查资料时，接触到水泥自流平和地胶。
Times changed so fast that in 2012, he found himself in contact with cement leveling and gum when he checked the material online.
当时郴州没几个人懂这个，他就一边下工地一边下苦功琢磨。
Few people in Chenzhou understood this at that time. He worked hard as he went down to the construction site.
七八年过去，他已然成了这方面的资深人士，带出好多个徒弟了。
Seven or eight years later, he has become a senior figure in this field, with a number of apprentices.
而地胶，或叫PVC地板，是建设医院百分百要用到的东西。
And the ground glue, or PVC floor, is the building of the hospital 100% to use things.
拉李哥进群的人提前跟他打招呼：一是进去了就不能退出，必须参与施工；二是没有工资，纯粹义务；三是有被疫情传染的可能性，可得考虑清楚了。
He was greeted in advance by the men of the Rio Group, who could not leave if they entered, and who had to take part in the construction work; there was no wage, a pure obligation; and there was the possibility of contagion, which had to be taken into account.
李哥回复：“钱这东西，生不带来，死不带去，国家有难，没钱我出力！”紧接着李哥被拉进一个名为“建设雷神山医院弹性地板施工队”的微信群，由中建领导，一共24人。
Li Ke replied: "Money is not the thing, death does not take away, the country is in trouble, I do not have the money!" Li Ge was pulled into a "building Lei Shenshan Hospital elastic floor construction team," by the Chinese Construction leadership, a total of 24 people.
没有想象中的精神号召，群主直接开始收集志愿者的个人信息，申请通行证，同时安排大家前往雷神山组队拼车。
Without an imaginary spiritual call, the group began to collect personal information about volunteers, apply for permits, and arrange for people to go to Luishen Mountain to carpool.
当时火神山已经建得差不多，不再需要人了，开始征集人建设雷神山。
At that time the god of fire mountain has been built almost, no longer need people, began to collect people to build Raytheon Hill.
从好奇地问发朋友圈的那个人，到上传个人信息等待进入武汉的通行证，不过一个小时。
Ask the person who sends friend circle curiously, to upload personal information to wait to enter Wuhan pass, but only one hour.
而当时李哥还没有跟家人商量一声。
At that time, Li Ge had not discussed with his family.
等待通行证的两天里，李哥只将这件事告诉了两个人。
During the two days waiting for the pass, Li Ge told only two people about it.
第一个是曾经去汶川当过志愿者的侄子。
The first was a nephew who had been a volunteer in Wenchuan.
李哥说：“你懂得。
"You understand," he said.
”第二个是临行前一天晚上，李哥实在没忍住，偷偷告诉了小儿子。
The second was the night before his departure, when Li Ge, unable to contain himself, secretly told his little son.
他说：“爸爸要去帮国家啦，你先不要告诉妈妈，别让她担心哦。
He said, "Daddy's going to help the country. Don't tell Mom, don't make her worry.
”小儿子九岁，天真烂漫，转眼就把老爹出卖了。
The youngest son, nine years old, was so innocent that he sold him out in a twinkling.
李哥老婆听了儿子的话，只当孩子童言无忌，根本没放心上。
Brother's wife listened to her son's words, only when the children said no scruple, no confidence.
她事后才回想起来，怪不得当时家里一会儿少个剃须刀，一会儿少个充电器。
No wonder the family had a few razors and a few chargers in a while.
等到她早上起床，发现人不见了，车子也不见了。
When she got up in the morning, she found the man was missing and the car was gone.
给丈夫发微信时，他已在去武汉的高速公路上。
He was already on the highway to Wuhan when he sent a message to his husband.
她跑去侄子家哭诉，侄子说出了当年去汶川时，说服他爸放行的那句话：“人生能有几次去做自己真正想做的事情。
She went to her nephew's house to cry, and her nephew told him what he had said to him when he went to Wenchuan: "There are times in life when you can do what you really want to do.
做为他的家人，我们就支持他，鼓励他吧。
As his family, we will support him and encourage him.
”二从湖南郴州到湖北武汉，六百二十六公里，开车需八小时。
From Chenzhou, Hunan Province, to Wuhan, Hubei Province, 626 kilometers, it takes eight hours by car.
疫情笼罩下的公路，前所未有的寂静空旷。
An epidemic of the road under the cover of unprecedented silence open.
李哥开着自己的五菱荣光，这辆车曾陪他去过大大小小的工地。
Li Ge drove his own Wuling Rong Guang, this car had accompanied him to the construction sites.
他并不是孤单一人。
He was not alone.
车上还有一同行兄弟，是东莞开水泥自流平工厂的老板，听李哥提起支援雷神山一事，二话不说直接从东莞开了六小时车，赶到郴州与李哥汇合。
There was also a companion brother, the owner of Dongguan Cement auto-leveling factory. Listening to Li Ge's proposal to support Lei Shenshan, he drove six hours directly from Dongguan to Chenzhou to rendezvous with Li Ke.
疫情下，高速公路全靠两张A4大小的白纸通行，一张是车辆通行证，上面写的是武汉火神山医院建设现场指挥部。
The epidemic situation, the highway is all rely on two A4-sized white paper, one is a vehicle pass, it said Wuhan fire god mountain hospital construction site command.
火神山跟雷神山的通行证是通用的 | 作者供图李哥把它用黄色胶带粘在前方玻璃窗的正下方。
The pass for Flamingo and Raytheon Mountain is at once general & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
另一张白纸黑字写着：为了武汉市抗击肺炎新建医院的需要，紧急组织至项目现场进行病房施工。
Another piece of paper in black and white: emergency organization to the project site for the construction of a new hospital to fight pneumonia in Wuhan.
有他的名字和身份证信息。
His name and I.D. information.
他们于下午5点顺利到达武汉。
They arrived in Wuhan at 5 p.m. without any trouble.
李哥在“出口应急物资运输车辆”的表格上签字，就这样进去了，此时距离武汉封城已经六天。
Li Ke signed the form "Export Emergency Transportation Vehicle" and thus went in, six days after the city was closed in Wuhan.
住宿是统一安排的，在十几公里外。
Accommodation is arranged in a uniform manner, a dozen kilometres away.
从宾馆往雷神山方向走，视野逐渐疏朗。
From the hotel to the direction of Luishen Mountain, the field of vision gradually clear.
跟新闻里报道的一样，沿途的武汉看过去空空荡荡，街道和高架桥上空无一人，店铺大门紧锁。
Along the way, Wuhan, as reported in the news, looked empty, with streets and viaducts empty and shop doors locked.
一到雷神山，又是另一番景象。
Once again, it was a different scene.
李哥把车停在食堂的门口，下车环顾四周。
Ligo parked his car at the door of the cafeteria and got out and looked around.
万人食堂的对面，一整排四五层楼的是后勤保障中心，两边是新造的高层住宅楼，远处有几辆红色的吊车，天空中有好几架无人机飞来飞去。
Opposite the ten thousand canteens, a row of four or five-story logistics centers, new high-rise apartment buildings on either side, red cranes in the distance, and several drones flying around in the sky.
跟李哥的货车挨在一起的，有部队运送物资的车辆，有来自五湖四海上千名戴着黄色安全帽、穿着黄色反光背心的工友们的私家车辆。
Along with Rigo's van, there were troop-carrying vehicles, and there were thousands of private cars from all over the country, wearing yellow helmets and yellow reflective vests.
几天之前，这些人谁也不认识谁，各自窝在自己的家里喝酒抽烟看电视，跟亲人们唠一年的喜怒哀乐。
A few days ago, none of these people knew anyone, and they spent years drinking, smoking and watching TV in their homes, chatting with relatives.
突然之间，大家都朝着一个目的来到了这里。
All of a sudden, everyone was here for a purpose.
李哥抬头看万人食堂的外围，上面挂着许多蓝色大横幅。
Li Ge looked up at the outside of the canteen, hung many big blue banners.
其中一幅是“召之即来、来之能战、战之必胜”。
One of them was "the calling, the coming of battle, the victory of war."
他的心里冒出真真切切打仗的感觉。
A real sense of war came into his mind.
这里是战场，疫情是敌人，工友是战友，时间是子弹，而他，就是战士。
Here is the battlefield, the epidemic is the enemy, the fellow worker is a comrade-in-arms, time is a bullet, and he is a fighter.
接下来的一切，跟他过往的经历截然不同。
Everything that followed was very different from what he had experienced.
以前去工地，时间自己定，早出门就早收工。
In the past to the construction site, the time of their own set, early leave work early.
干工程体力消耗大，基本到了天黑也就收工了。
Dry engineering physical energy consumption, basic to the dark also closed down.
现在这里所有的人都是两班倒。
Now all the people here are running on two shifts.
一班人上白班，从早上8点到晚上10点。
Classes work day shifts, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.
另一班人上晚班，从晚上10点到早上8点。
The other team worked at night, from 10: 00 p.m. to 8: 00 a.m.
进出要签到，一天体温测三次，随时随地得戴着口罩，平均4小时还要换一次。
Check in and out, take a temperature test three times a day, wear a mask anytime, anywhere, and change it every four hours on average.
一日三餐，在万人食堂排队领盒饭。
Eat three meals a day and stand in line in the canteen for meals.
吃饭时间是很紧张的，因为工人们多，得排着队，吃好了就走，给后面的人留空间。
Dining time was very tight, for the workers were so numerous that they had to wait in line to leave room for those behind.
大多数情况下，工人们都是站着吃，有时他们就把盒饭放在盛地胶的圆桶上蹲着吃。
Most of the time, workers eat standing food, and sometimes they squat on glued drums.
吃饭的时候偶尔可以讲上几句话，但大多数时间大家都是埋头吃饭，吃完继续埋头苦干。
Occasionally I can say a few words during dinner, but most of the time we just bury ourselves in food and go on working hard.
前来的志愿者们也分几种，师傅，大工，小工。
There are several kinds of volunteers, teachers, workers, and workers.
所谓师傅，就是在这一行经验丰富的，可以带个团队。
The so-called master, is experienced in this field, can bring a team.
大工，就是一块地交给他，可以把它做完做好。
Big job, is to give him a piece of land, can do it well.
小工，就是抬一下，拌一下，辅助的。
Mini-worker, that is to raise, mix, auxiliary.
除此之外还有杂工。
And then there are handymen.
师傅带大工，大工带小工，小工带杂工。
Shifu takes the laborers, the laborers and the laborers.
每一区都有个领导，告诉他们今天该干什么。
Every district has a leader who tells them what to do today.
统一安排调度。
Unified scheduling arrangements.
有人排材料，有人下料，有人出板子，有人修边，有人焊接。
There were people queuing, people discharging, people getting out, people trimming, people welding.
这是一条无比紧凑的流水线。
This is a very compact assembly line.
三刚开始上工，也有混乱的时候。
Three starts at work and there are times of confusion.
所有的人都是天南地北，之前都没有合作过，属于磨合期。
All the people are north and south, have not cooperated before, belong to the abrasion period.
第一天还没有地板可以铺，有人喊着搬材料，李哥那一队都是大师傅，也一起跑去搬。
The first day there was no floor to lay, someone shouted to carry materials, Li Ge that the team are masters, also ran to move.
搬的也不是他们区的PVC地板，也不管了，反正叫着干什么就干什么。
It's not the PVC floor in their area, and it doesn't matter what you do.
第二天流程理清了，上头把人10到20个分成一组，每组领几个区。
The next day the process was sorted out, with 10 to 20 people divided into groups of 10 and 20, each receiving several blocks.
速度一下快了起来。
The speed went up quickly.
李哥做白班，分到十个人。
Li Ke is assigned to ten people as a day shift.
要是按以往的经验，地上面是不能直接做地胶的。
If the past experience, above the ground is not directly made of gum.
得先做自流平，等干了再打磨，打完以后下材料，下好材料刮胶，刮好胶以后修边，再焊线。
Have to do artesian leveling, wait for dry grinding, after the next material, next good material scraper, after shaving gum after trimming, welding wire.
这一套下来，每一道工序都得花时间，1000方最快也得要一个星期。
Under this system, each procedure will take time, 1000 square also will take a week at the earliest.
可在雷神山，一个小时内就将这些全部搞定了。
But in Raytheon Mountain, we got it all done in an hour.
材料一来，架子一搭，材料一下，直接铺。
First of all, the materials put together a shelf, materials, directly berth.
刚点了胶也不等干了，也不刮边了，美观装饰这些东西统统搁在一边，得快。
Just ordered glue also did not wait to dry, do not scratch, beautiful decorate these things are put aside, quickly.
李哥很快投入其中，每天早上7点起床，刷牙洗漱，吃点东西，就开车去雷神山。
Li Ge quickly into it, each morning at 7 o'clock to get up, brush his teeth wash, eat something, driving to Luishen Mountain.
到了现场，他就一头扎进去，不分昼夜地开干。
Arriving at the scene, he plunged headlong into it and drove day and night.
一天下来，李哥没怎么喝水，也不怎么上厕所，转眼已是晚上十点多，回住宿点前，听领导派第二天的工，每一天都是循环往复。
At the end of the day, Li Ge didn't drink much water or go to the toilet. It was almost ten o'clock at night.
工地现场 | 作者供图跟李哥同去的一批人里，大多数是80后90后，他是年纪最大的。
Among the people whom the writer supplied with Li Ke, most of whom were after eighty years, he was the oldest.
有一次，他坐在地上算尺寸，不知道怎么的，就在太阳底下睡着了。
Once he sat on the ground counting the measurements and, for some reason, fell asleep in the sun.
过了几分钟猛然惊醒，赶紧起来接着干。
After a few minutes I woke up abruptly and got up and went on.
到了第三天，李哥才直观地感受到中国速度的恐怖之处。
Only on the third day did Li Ge intuitively feel the horror of Chinese speed.
一开始，他在医护楼里施工，还没有强烈的感觉。
At first, he was working in the medical building, but he didn't have a strong feeling.
医护楼就是比赛场馆，属于室内，2层7栋楼，3天就被工人们抢赶着出来了。
Medical building is the competition venue, belonging to the indoor, 2 floors 7 buildings, 3 days by the workers rushed out.
结束后，主管问李哥还能不能继续干，他说可以。
When it was over, the supervisor asked Li Ge if he could go on, and he said yes.
他又分配了三个区，分别是专家楼、仓库和两栋综合楼。
He assigned three additional sectors, namely, the experts' building, the warehouse and two complexes.
从第一个工区出来之际，他才猛然惊觉雷神山之大。
When he came out of the first work area, he was shocked by the size of Thunder Mountain.
本来他以为雷神山医院就是这个比赛场馆，突然剧场的幕布被拉开，露出后面无边无际一大片荒地。
He had thought that Raytheon Hill Hospital was the venue, and suddenly the curtains parted, revealing a vast expanse of wasteland behind.
从入口进去，到医护楼近千米，把整个片区循环走一圈，最快也得四十分钟。
From the entrance to the hospital building near the kilometer, the whole section of the cycle, the fastest is 40 minutes.
后来的几天，李哥去其他片区施工，都得从入口处坐转运公交才能到达。
For the next few days, Li went to other parts of the city and had to take a transit bus from the entrance.
而这么大片地，在十天内就要造起一座医院，即使人在其中，也觉得无法想象。
And so vast a land, in ten days to build a hospital, even among them, feel unthinkable.
有时候，头天晚上某片区域还是空空如也，第二天早上一来，架子就立起来了。
Sometimes an area was empty the night before, and the next morning the shelves were up.
上午他们刚刚把仓库铺完，下午就有人把物资拉来。
They had just finished spreading out the warehouse in the morning, and supplies were hauled in the afternoon.
上一刻，他们刚把地胶打完还未干，下一刻就有人开始安装洁具、电器和淋浴房了。
Just before they had finished tapping the glue, someone began to install cleaners, electrical appliances and showers the next moment.
在这种巨大的精神鼓励下，人竟感觉不到疲劳，抽支烟又可以顶一天。
Encouraged by this great spirit, one can not feel tired and can smoke for another day.
四5号的晚上，武汉下了一场暴雨，李哥很庆幸自己昨天晚上就下齐了所有材料。
On the evening of the 4th and 5th, Wuhan had a heavy rainstorm. Li Ge was very glad that he had all the materials under the table last night.
早点完工，病人就可以早点收治，一刻都耽误不得。
Completed earlier, the patient can be admitted earlier, not a moment of delay.
有时候，李哥也会觉得恍惚。
Sometimes, Li Ge also feels trance.
某天深夜回宾馆的路上，他想买烟，路上的街灯还亮着，大商场的霓虹招牌还闪着，这座九省通衢的大城市明明还醒着，就是看不到人了。
On his way back to his hotel late one night, he wants to buy a cigarette. The street lights are still on and the neon sign of the mall is still on.
从1月29日出发开始，他就有意识地拍摄路上的一切。
From the start of his journey on January 29, he consciously filmed everything on the road.
进武汉了，开始施工了，部队来了，今天要把这片区域铺起来了，等等。
Wuhan, began to build, the army came, today to lay this area up, and so on.
在工地，没人禁止他们带手机和拍视频，因为基本上也没有时间能玩手机。
At the site, they were not forbidden to bring their mobile phones and make videos because they had little time to play with them.
李哥就乘空隙拍上几段。
Li Ge took the gap to shoot a few paragraphs.
比如在等排工的间隙，他拍了一段今天的仓库进展。
For example, while waiting for the shift, he took a picture of the warehouse progress today.
有一天，李哥开心地说，今天的盒饭里有鸡腿啊。
One day, Li said happily, there are chicken legs in the lunch box today.
旁边工友说，平常还没鸡腿呢，然后大家哈哈大笑。
Side worker says, still did not have drumstick normally, then everybody burst out laughing.
去的时候，李哥压根没提过钱的事，他本来就是去当义工的，一开始他就表态，过高速公路费他都可以自掏。
When he went there, he didn't even mention the money. He was supposed to be a volunteer. He said at first that he could pay for the freeway at his own expense.
事实上前三天，他跟群里的队友们确实没拿一毛钱。
In fact, he didn't take a dime from his teammates the other day.
后来做熟了才知道，原来还是有钱拿的。
Later do ripe just know, originally still have money to take.
夜间的工地 | 作者供图虽然中国大，工人也多，特殊情况下，远点的赶不来，救火还得近。
AT NIGHT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
雷神山太渴求速度了，太需要人了，每天都有许多中介在到处招人，价格也越叫越高。
Ray Shenshan is too eager for speed, too much need of people, every day there are a lot of intermediaries in the recruitment, the higher the price.
原先是一个班一千，后来变成一个晚班一千五，到了后来，两倍三倍的价格都在报。
It used to be one thousand in a class, then turned into an evening shift of fifteen, and then, twice as much, three times as much.
来的人越来越多，乱世众生相。
More and more people are coming and making mistakes in this world.
有些人做着做着突然不见了，等每天点人头发工资时，又冒出来了。
Some people do it and suddenly disappear, waiting for a person to count the daily hair wages, and then came out.
按照行里的话说，这是“窝工了。
In the words of the trade, this is "a scamp."
”李哥觉得，这世界本来就是什么人都有。
"Li Ke felt that the world was meant to be for everyone.
有些人上了战场，腿打瘸了眼睛花了，他照样直直地把身体堵敌人炮口上。
Some men went into battle, limping their eyes, and still plugging their bodies in the muzzle of the enemy.
有些人在战场，子弹飞起来了，他赶紧趴下装死。
There were men in the field, bullets flew up, and he got down and pretended to be dead.
也有些人刚听到击鼓，就当了逃兵。
Some, too, had scarcely heard the drumbeat when they became deserters.
这是李哥人生中第一次去武汉。
This is the first time that Li Ge goes to Wuhan.
他知道自己来这里是为了什么。
He knows why he's here.
从1月29日到2月7日，李哥负责的工区地胶全部完工。
From January 29 to February 7, Li Ge responsible for the work area Gelatin was completed.
共计2万方。
Twenty thousand square meters.
五2月8号，雷神山医院由部队接管交付使用，首批医疗队员进驻，当天晚上8点，开始收治首批患者。
On February 8, Lei Shenshan Hospital was taken over by the army and the first medical team arrived. The first batch of patients was admitted at 8 p.m. that day.
而它的建设者们，在完成它的那一刻，马上退场了。
And its builders, in the moment it was completed, immediately withdrew.
李哥只来得及给写着自己名字的黄色安全帽拍了张照，就穿着出发时唯一的那套衣服开了一宿的夜车，8号上午凌晨5点到的家。
He had only time to take a picture of the yellow helmet with his name on it, so he wore his only outfit for the night and arrived home at 5 a.m. on the 8th.
同行的东莞老板，还得去郴州火车站对面的酒店取车，再开一路的高速回东莞。
Dongguan boss of the same trade, still have to go Chenzhou railway station opposite the hotel to pick up the car, then drive all the way back to Dongguan.
凌晨五点的郴州，天空仍一片漆黑，他家小区的正门关了，小路封了，李哥绕了一圈，最终在小区外给老婆发了条微信，“已平安到家”。
In Chenzhou, in the early morning, the sky was still dark. The main door of his small area was closed. The road was closed.
李哥怕带来病毒，没敢直接回家，就跑去老房子待着。
Ligo afraid to bring the virus, did not dare to go home directly, ran to the old house to stay.
打开门，桌上放着羞山细面、挂面、辣椒酱，还有他平日里最喜欢的金白沙和普洱茶。
Opening the door, he found on the table a thin layer of shyly noodles, noodles, chili sauce, and his favourite gold and white sand and puer tea.
那都是老婆提前给他准备好的。
His wife had prepared them for him in advance.
近一天一夜没睡觉，李哥倒头就睡。
After nearly a night without sleep, Li Ke fell asleep.
大概是这十天的作息时间被强化，不到8点他就醒了。
It was probably ten days of intense sleep, and before eight he was awake.
一看有一个未接来电，他被通知，待会政府的车会来接他们，统一去宾馆隔离。
One of them didn't answer the phone. He was told that the government car would pick them up later and go to the hotel.
他算了算，有近一个月见不到家人。
He calculated that he would not see his family for nearly a month.
这是他跟老婆结婚以来，分开最长的一段日子。
It was the longest time he had been apart since his wife married him.
隔离的生活开始。
Isolated life begins.
一日三餐放到门口，从早到晚还有日程表来建议他的行动。
Three meals a day were placed at the door, and there was a schedule from morning till night to suggest his course of action.
早上7点半，他得起床，开窗通风，给房间消毒。
At 7: 30 in the morning, he had to get up, open the window and disinfect the room.
一日量两次体温，统一报到群里。
Take temperature twice a day and report to group.
时间慢下来了，李哥反而觉得累了。
When the time slowed down, Li Ge felt tired instead.
隔离的日子，他靠看电视来打发时间。
On seclusion, he spent his time watching TV.
刚住进宾馆的第一天，便是雷神山医院交付使用的那一天。
Just live in the first day of the hotel, is the day of the delivery of Raytheon Mountain Hospital.
李哥看着新闻联播里雷神山的地板、病床、空调，觉得无比熟悉。
Li Ke looked at the news broadcast on the Shen Shan floor, hospital beds, air conditioning, feel extremely familiar.
以前遥远的国家新闻，竟然跟自己的命运联系了起来。
Before the distant state news, unexpectedly and own destiny related.
他已经很久没有看电视了，奇怪新闻里的那些主持人怎么一下子就这么老了。
He had not watched TV for a long time, and wondered how the presenters on the news were so old all at once.
他想了想自己，他也老了。
He thought about himself. He was old, too.
本地电视台每天在放《激情的岁月》，他看着看着，仿佛重回年轻时的那一段岁月。
The local television station released "Years of Passion" every day, and he looked at it as if he were back in his youth.
作者Iris Shen，开了一家民宿编辑|蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me the story? Why don't you tell it to me? Why don't you tell it to me?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我去建“雷神山”这事，别告诉你妈。
I'm going to build Raytheon Mountain. Don't tell your mother.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我去建“雷神山”这事，别告诉你妈";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I went to build Mount Raytheon. Don't tell your mother & quot;;
var msg_desc = "这是李哥第一次来武汉，他知道为什么而来。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; This is Li Ge's first visit to Wuhan, and he knows why.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
