湖北基层医院采购医生：封城后，到高速服务区“抢”口罩。
Hubei grass-roots hospital procurement doctors: after the closure of the city, to high-speed service areas "grab" masks.
张笛扬。
Zhang Deyang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月30日，海军军医大学医疗队三病区医护人员正在穿戴防护用具。
January 30, the Navy Medical University Medical Corps medical team in the third area of wearing protective gear.
（新华社 陈晨/图）全文共3590字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3,590 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
钟南山表态的前两天，政府部门连夜召集各家医院的领导开会。
Zhong's announcement came two days after government departments convened night-long meetings of hospital leaders.
医院领导回来后就跟我说，疫情就在眼前了，要求我马上开始再采购物资。
When the hospital leader came back, he told me that the outbreak was imminent and asked me to start repurchasing immediately.
听说周边地方的一些医院物资实在紧急，还有直接开着120急救车去接货的。
I heard that some hospitals in the vicinity of the emergency supplies, and directly drove 120 emergency vehicles to pick up the goods.
医护人员带一些口罩给家人也可以理解，我的儿子也叫我拿口罩回家，我没带他还生了我的气。
The fact that the paramedics brought some masks to their families was understandable. My son told me to take my mask home, too.
这些年来，几乎所有医院都在强调控制成本、强调物资的周转率，减少耗材报损。
Over the years, almost all hospitals have emphasized cost containment, material turnover, and reduced reporting of material losses.
我们平时每个月的采购计划是按过去20个月的平均用量再上浮一点拟定的。
Our usual monthly purchasing plan is based on the average usage of the past 20 months and a little more floating.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张笛扬责任编辑 | 吴筱羽刘猛（化名）在湖北随州市一家二级甲等医院负责医用物资、药品的采购，他所在的医院是随州七家定点救治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者的医院之一。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
相较武汉而言，随州市的医疗资源薄弱许多，随州市公布的七家定点救治医院，仅有两家为三甲医院，其他都为二级甲等医院。
Compared with Wuhan, the medical resources in Suizhou are much weaker, and only two of the seven designated hospitals in Suizhou are triple-A hospitals and the rest are level-II level-A hospitals.
随州距离武汉约一百五十公里，截至2020年1月31日7时，随州市公布的确诊病例有228例。
As of 0700 hours on January 31, 2020, 228 confirmed cases had been reported in Suizhou, about 150 kilometers from Wuhan.
随着疫情的发展，湖北省内不少医院物资告急，刘猛所在的医院也不例外。
With the development of the epidemic, many hospitals in Hubei Province are in urgent need, and Liu Meng's hospital is no exception.
以下为刘猛的自述。
The following is Liu Meng's self-report.
1钟南山表态前两天，要求紧急采购本来春节前我们已经备了很多物资了，但没想到疫情来得这么凶猛，那些物资远远不够了。
Zhong Nan Shan said two days ago, the request for emergency procurement before the Spring Festival we had a lot of supplies, but did not expect the outbreak of such ferocity, those materials are not enough.
按照我们做医疗物资采购的规律，平时每月都会做一次采购，储备一个月所需的物资，但是每年过年前，我们都会进行一次大批量的采购，至少备齐两个月的物资，因为很多供应商和物流都要放假，过了正月十五才会开始供货，再加上每年过年期间都是流感的高发季，呼吸系统疾病的患者会增多。
In accordance with our rule of purchasing medical supplies, we usually make a monthly purchase and reserve the necessary materials for one month. But every year before the New Year, we will make a large purchase and provide at least two months' worth of materials.
这是我们必须考虑到的。
That is what we must take into account.
去年腊月二十五（2020年1月19日）之前，我们基本上完成了年前的采购，物资和药品也陆续送到了医院。
By last year's quarter-century (Jan. 19, 2020), we had largely completed our year-old purchases, and supplies and medicines had been delivered to hospitals.
当时备货和疫情还没有关系，属于日常采购。
At that time, stock and epidemic situation is not related to normal procurement.
但我们当时主要采购的都是药品，对防护用品采购的不多，觉得只要够用就行，院里的各类口罩当时还剩近两万个，这已经是我们平时两个多月的用量了，我觉得已经够了。
However, we mainly purchased drugs, protection supplies procurement is not enough, I think as long as enough, the courtyard of nearly 20,000 masks, which is our usual use of more than two months, I think enough.
1月20日晚上，钟南山对外宣布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎肯定存在人传人的现象，是这次疫情防控转折的标志，公众基本都是在此之后才知道此次疫情的严重性，包括我们医院也是。
On the evening of January 20, Zhong Nan-shan announced that there must be human-to-human transmission of pneumonia, a sign of the turning point in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
那天开始，我们给医生提升了防护等级，而涌入医院发热门诊的患者也自那时开始变多。
From that day on, we upgraded the level of protection for doctors, and the influx of patients into the hospital fever clinic has increased since then.
政府部门提醒我们医院应对疫情的时间要比钟南山表态稍早一点。
Authorities reminded us that hospitals had to deal with the outbreak a little earlier than Zhong Nan Shan.
我记得是钟南山表态的前两天，政府部门连夜召集各家医院的领导开会，要求做好疫情的防控工作。
I remember two days before Zhong Nan-shan's pronouncement, government departments convened the leaders of hospitals overnight to demand the prevention and control of the epidemic.
医院领导回来后就跟我说，疫情就在眼前了，要求我马上开始再采购物资，保障医院应对疫情期间的物资供应。
When the hospital leader came back, he told me that the outbreak was imminent and asked me to start repurchasing supplies immediately to ensure that the hospital was able to respond to the epidemic.
之后那几天基本上天天都要开会，医院里成立了四个专班，有诊治专班、防控专班、宣传专班，还有就是物资供应专班，负责采购防护用品、消杀用品以及药品。
In the days that followed, meetings were generally held on a daily basis, and four specialized classes were set up in the hospital, including specialized classes for diagnosis and treatment, special classes for prevention and control, special classes for publicity, and specialized classes for the supply of materials for the procurement of protective equipment, disinfectant supplies and medicines.
疫情越来越严重，辛苦的不仅是一线的医生，医院里几乎所有人，包括我们负责物资采购的科室都绷紧了神经。
It is not just the front-line doctors who are struggling, but almost everyone in the hospital, including our procurement department, is getting nervous.
从那天之后，我们采购就一直没有停过，一天24小时电话不断地响。
We haven't stopped shopping since that day, and the phone keeps ringing 24 hours a day.
不管是腊月二十九、除夕还是正月初一、初二，所有平时和我们医院有业务联系的公司，我都挨个打电话让他们供应物资。
Whether it is Lunar New Year's Eve or the first two days of the first month, all the companies that usually have business contacts with our hospital, I call them one by one to let them supply supplies.
但很多公司不经营防护用品，只经营药品或者耗材。
But many companies do not deal in protective equipment, only drugs or consumables.
我们平时采购物资都是从本地的经销商那里购买的，他们从生产商那里拿货。
We usually buy our goods from local distributors, who get them from the manufacturers.
一开始，为数不多经营防护用品的公司也都表示了难处，因为他们那里储存的物资数量也都不多，有的工厂已经放假了，物流也停了，拿着钱也买不到。
At first, the few companies that ran protective equipment also expressed difficulty because they had few stores, some had closed, logistics had stopped, and money was not available.
省内各家医院都在赶忙采购物资，当时我们联系上经销商，听说他们那里还有货，我再打电话给院领导请示一下要买多少，再过十分钟打过去，那些货就已经被其他医院抢走了。
When we contacted the dealer and heard that they had some more, I called the hospital leadership to find out how much we wanted to buy. In ten minutes, the goods had already been taken away by other hospitals.
后来随着疫情越来越严重，湖北省内不少生产防护用品的厂家紧急开工，我们了解到之后，一直在向经销商打电话催物资。
Later, as the epidemic became more serious, many manufacturers of protective equipment in Hubei Province started work urgently.
院长比我更急，他每次都要我给他准确答复，问我口罩、防护服什么时候能到，但经销商也没法给我准确答复，有时候我们订的货虽然已经上路，但我们不一定能拿到手。
The dean, more anxious than I am, asked me to give him an accurate answer each time, ask me when the mask, protective clothing will arrive, but the dealer can not give me an accurate answer, sometimes we have ordered goods on the road, but we do not necessarily get hands.
2自己采购的，质量过硬一些能抢到一点物资不容易，尤其是现在湖北多地都“封城”了，对物资的运送产生了不小的影响。
It is not easy to get a little material by oneself, especially now Hubei many places are "sealed off", which has a great influence on the delivery of materials.
生产防护用品的厂家主要在仙桃和咸宁，很多我们预定的物资被送到了孝感或者其他高速公路服务区，运货的车再往前走也进不了城了。
Many of the supplies we ordered were delivered to filial piety or other freeway service areas. Freight cars couldn't get into the city any further.
包括随州市内也是这样，很多交通要道都被堆上了渣土，需要通关证才能通行。
This is also the case in Suizhou, where many major traffic lanes are stacked with dirt and require customs clearance to pass through.
我们医院会联系市里的防控指挥部，拿到指挥部发放的通关证，交给经销商，他们再去高速服务区提货。
Our hospital will contact the city's control headquarters, the command issued by the customs clearance certificate, handed over to dealers, they go to high-speed service areas to pick up goods.
这时候，很多经销商都会去抢货，很可能谁先到谁就抢到了。
At this time, many dealers will go to rob the goods, most likely the first person to snatch.
生产商一趟车可能会拉过来好几家公司订的货，有的公司可能本来只订了五千只口罩，但他先到了，看到货多，就先拿了，又不是不给钱。
Some companies might have ordered only five thousand masks, but he arrived first and took more than he wanted, not without paying.
我们可能本来订了一万个口罩，等到经销商拉回来就没那么多了。
We might have ordered 10,000 masks, but there won't be as many until the dealer pulls them back.
听说周边地方的一些医院物资实在紧急，还有直接开着120急救车去接货的。
I heard that some hospitals in the vicinity of the emergency supplies, and directly drove 120 emergency vehicles to pick up the goods.
现在，经销商们为了自己订的物资不被抢，都专门提前开车到高速服务区等运货的车来，现在省内各地交通的管制情况也不一样，运货的车也说不好什么时候能到，经销商们有时一等就是大半天。
Dealers now drive early to high-speed service areas to wait for delivery trucks, and traffic is now regulated differently across the province, and freight cars aren't sure when they will arrive. Dealers sometimes wait for half a day.
疫情暴发后，我们紧急采购的用品中，最早到的是一批防护服。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, the earliest supplies we procured in an emergency were protective clothing.
春节前的一天晚上，我们院里有一个病人经过检查，高度疑似新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，担心医生被传染，我马上给经销商打电话，那时经销商刚下高速把货拉到市区，我让他们马上送到医院来。
One night before the Spring Festival, a patient in our hospital was checking out the pneumonia, which was highly suspected to be infected with the new coronavirus. I called the dealer immediately, and as soon as the dealer was pulling the goods downtown at high speed, I told them to come to the hospital immediately.
那一次采购的防护服共五十套，第二天就全部分完了。
Fifty suits of protective clothing were purchased that time, and the whole was finished the next day.
之前医院还剩的近两万个口罩也三天就用完了，现在我们不仅要给医护发口罩，前来就诊的患者也要给他们无偿发放。
With nearly 20,000 masks left in the hospital running out in three days, not only do we need to give them masks, but we also give them free of charge to patients who come to see them.
当然，有些口罩可能是医护人员多拿了一些给了家人或者朋友，现在市场上已经很难买到口罩了。
Of course, some masks may have been given to family or friends by health care workers. Now it is difficult to buy masks in the market.
几天前口罩有些紧张，我曾专门排查了一次，根据登记表上各个科室的领取数量，让一些领得多的科室将口罩退出来，发给治疗发热病人的一线科室。
A few days ago, the mask was a little nervous, I had a special screening, according to the number of departments on the registration form, a number of departments to take out the mask, to treat fever patients to the front-line departments.
医护人员带一些口罩给家人也可以理解，我的儿子也叫我拿口罩回家，我没带他还生了我的气。
The fact that the paramedics brought some masks to their families was understandable. My son told me to take my mask home, too.
这次病毒的传染性强，我们之前根本没有遇到过这种情况。
This virus is very infectious, we have never encountered this situation before.
除了医护人员、病人要防护，我们还要向社区诊所、乡村医生发放防护用品，所以需要的量大了。
In addition to medical staff, patients to protect, we have to community clinics, village doctors to distribute protective supplies, so the amount needed is large.
政府部门给我们调拨了一批口罩，是无偿提供的，但这部分口罩不仅供给我们医院，政府机关有防疫执勤任务需要的，也都会来医院领口罩。
Government departments have allocated to us a number of masks, provided free of charge, but this part of the mask not only supply our hospital, government agencies have epidemic prevention tasks, also will come to the hospital to collect masks.
算下来，最近几天消耗的各类口罩已经比我们医院过去一年使用的还要多了。
All kinds of masks have been consumed in recent days more than our hospital has used in the past year.
疫情暴发前我们医院每个月使用的各类口罩还不到一万只，而这一周，我们已经用了近5万只了。
Before the outbreak, our hospital used fewer than 10,000 face masks a month, and this week we used nearly 50,000.
其中一些防护级别较高的用品，我们这一周采购的数量甚至超过了过去好几年采购的量。
Some of the more highly protected items we purchased this week were even larger than those purchased in the past few years.
像N95口罩、防护服这样的防护用品，我们过去很少用到，常备的都是一次性口罩和一次性手术衣。
Protective items such as N95 masks and protective clothing, which we used to use infrequently, are disposable masks and disposable surgical clothing.
N95口罩近三年我们医院一共使用了不到100只，这几天就用了至少600只。
The N95 mask has been used in our hospital for less than 100 times in the past three years and at least 600 in the last few days.
医用外科口罩平时也用得少，过去两年我们医院只用了一千多只，最近几天就已经用了四千多只。
Medical surgical masks are also used infrequently. We have only used more than a thousand surgical masks in the past two years, and more than 4,000 in recent days.
疫情暴发后，我们每天晚上都要统计物资的库存量，即是为了安排各科室第二天的使用，也要把数据上报给政府部门。
After the outbreak, we counted stock levels every night, both to arrange for the next day's use by the departments and to report the data to government departments.
政府部门调拨的物资是我们医院开车去取货的，医护人员向我们反映，我们自己采购的防护用品要比政府调拨的质量过硬一些。
The government allocated supplies to our hospital to pick up the goods, and the paramedics told us that our own purchases were of better quality than those allocated by the government.
3报损率超过0.3%，负责采购的人受罚现在湖北省内大大小小的医院物资都很紧张，甚至不少外地的医院也开始紧张，不少医院都向社会公开募捐。
The material resources of hospitals in Hubei Province are very tight. Even many hospitals in other areas have started to be nervous, and many hospitals have made public donations to the public.
最近有人向我们捐赠了2000个一次性口罩，是符合国家标准的，我们就直接投入使用了。
We recently received a donation of 2,000 disposable masks, which are in line with national standards, and we are now in direct use.
也有公益机构联系上我，问我哪些物资比较紧缺，我提供了数字，已经过了好几天了，也不知道什么时候可以到位。
I have also been contacted by pro bono agencies to ask me which items are in short supply and I have provided figures that have been pending for several days and do not know when they will be in place.
有些小医院物资更加紧缺，乡镇卫生院、社区医院的情况就更严重。
Some small hospitals are more in short supply, the situation of township hospitals, community hospitals is more serious.
最近就有几家小医院想找我们借防护用品，我确实借不了，我们自己的都很紧张。
Several small hospitals have been trying to borrow protective equipment from us recently. I really can't. Our own hospitals are very nervous.
目前我们医院主要缺的是医用外科口罩，院里还剩几百个，一直没敢发完，每天只给发热门诊配发，别的科室都只发医用护理口罩。
At present, the main shortage of our hospital is medical surgical masks, there are still hundreds of hospital, has not dared to complete, each day only to the heating clinic distribution, other departments are only issued medical care masks.
医用外科口罩现在也很难采购，很多供应商声称有货，但是他们的货都没达到国家标准，我们不敢买，更不敢用。
Medical surgical masks are also difficult to procure now, and many suppliers claim to have them, but they are not up to national standards and we dare not buy them, let alone use them.
如果省着用，现在医院的库存情况还够用一周，我们现在每天给医护发一个口罩，治疗发热病人的一线科室，就发N95口罩或医用外科口罩，其他科室只发一次性口罩。
If saved, we now have enough hospital stock for a week. We now issue a mask every day to doctors and nurses, a front-line unit to treat febrile patients, issue N95 masks or medical surgical masks, and others issue only disposable masks.
接下来的每天都得不断继续采购，目标是要至少备齐两周的用量。
Keep buying for the rest of the day, with the goal of at least two weeks' supply.
这些年来，几乎所有医院都在强调控制成本、强调物资的周转率，减少耗材报损。
Over the years, almost all hospitals have emphasized cost containment, material turnover, and reduced reporting of material losses.
我们平时每个月的采购计划是按过去20个月的平均用量再上浮一点拟定的。
Our usual monthly purchasing plan is based on the average usage of the past 20 months and a little more floating.
此外，我们医院不会有规模地储备口罩、防护服等防护用品，只用按照用量定期采购。
In addition, our hospital will not have large-scale reserve masks, protective clothing and other protective supplies, only according to the amount of regular procurement.
不瞒你说，我们医院现在用的一批医用外科口罩还剩不到一个月就过保质期，医用产品一般在保质期前一个月就算报损。
As a matter of fact, we still have less than a month left on the expiry date of a batch of medical surgical masks. Medical products are usually reported to be lost one month before their expiry date.
三年前我们采购了近一千个医用外科口罩，三年都没用完，这让医院怎么敢多订呢？为了控制成本，减少报损，医院制定了制度，要求定期统计耗材报损的数量、金额，如果报损率超过了0.3%，那负责采购的人员就得受到处罚。
Three years ago, we purchased nearly a thousand medical surgical masks, which were useless for three years, so how dare the hospital order more? In order to control costs and reduce reported losses, the hospital has instituted a system requiring regular statistics on the amount and amount of reported losses of consumables.
此外，几乎所有的医院，营收都主要用在了扩张、建设上，各家医院都想提高自己的档次、扩大服务人群，我们医院也是如此。
In addition, in almost all hospitals, the revenue is mainly used for expansion, construction, all hospitals want to improve their own class, expand the service crowd, our hospital is the same.
这就导致了医院的采购资金普遍不是很宽裕。
This has led to a general lack of generous hospital procurement funds.
有经销商曾向我抱怨，很多大医院拖欠采购资金长达10个月。
Dealers have complained to me that many major hospitals are 10 months behind with their procurement funds.
我们医院算比较好的，最困难的时候也只拖欠过6个月。
Our hospital is relatively good, the most difficult time has been only six months in arrears.
好在疫情暴发后，医院的采购思路发生了变化。
Fortunately, after the outbreak of the outbreak, hospital procurement thinking has changed.
省委书记蒋超良提出“宁可备而不用，不可用而不备”，医院领导也要求我备足各类物资，他说到时候就算浪费了也不追究我的责任。
"I'd rather be prepared than used," said Jiang, the provincial party secretary. "Hospital officials asked me to stock up on all kinds of materials.
这一次疫情也是正好赶上了年关，工厂的生产储配和物流都不太顺畅。
This epidemic is also just in time to meet the New Year, the factory production storage and logistics are not smooth.
现在各级政府都开始重视起来，工厂都在加大马力供应，物流也在恢复正常，我相信物资短缺情况会慢慢得到缓解。
Now that all levels of government are beginning to pay attention, factories are increasing horsepower supply and logistics are returning to normal, I believe that the shortage of supplies will gradually ease.
当然了，如果相关部门在疫情暴发前能够早些研判，早点提醒我们采购，那么现在的情况也许会更好一点。
Of course, the situation would have been better if the relevant departments had been able to assess the outbreak earlier and have alerted us to the purchase earlier.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北基层医院采购医生：封城后，到高速服务区“抢”口罩。
Hubei grass-roots hospital procurement doctors: after the closure of the city, to high-speed service areas "grab" masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "湖北基层医院采购医生：封城后，到高速服务区“抢”口罩";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
