深夜的武汉街头，他骑电瓶车送药。
Late at night on the streets of Wuhan, he took medicine by car.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：从2020年1月23号开始，吴悠抱着“应该做点事”的想法，变身“骑手”，骑着他的小电瓶车，奔波在武汉的大街小巷，给物资匮乏的病患家庭送去口罩、酒精和药物。
From January 23, 2020, Wu Yo transformed himself into a "rider," riding his mini-electric car through the streets of Wuhan, delivering masks, alcohol and drugs to families in need.
目前，他和他的学生专门给250个家庭送药。
Currently, he and his students deliver medicines to 250 families.
加上之前送的，现在大概送了500户。
Together with the previous ones, about 500 are now delivered.
文 |张楠茜编辑 |林鹏武汉人吴悠的Vlog里，最常出现的是夜晚的空旷街道、黑压压的马路，他的电瓶车打出一团明黄的灯光印在地上，旁边伴着他臃肿的影子。
At Ren's Vlog, where Li & amp; Peng & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
车往前开，镜头摇晃，吴悠自言自语着今天又到哪里送药，疲惫的声音伴着呼呼风声。
The car forward, the lens shakes, Wu Yu soliloquized today where to send medicine, tired voice accompanied by the wind.
电瓶车是黑白色的，车头搭着彩色波点的挡风棉袄，车灯下有个小篮子，平时塞满物资，篮子空了，说明这天的任务完成。
The cart was black and white, with a windshield with colored dots at the front, a small basket under the headlights, which was usually full of material, and the basket was empty, indicating the completion of the day's work.
吴悠摘下蒙着水汽的黄色边框护目镜，额头和眼下有两道平行的印痕。
Wu took off his yellow steam-covered goggles and had two parallel marks on his forehead and face.
吴悠今年26岁，是土生土长的武汉人。
Wu Yo, 26, is a native of Wuhan.
新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩大前，他是正在武汉一所中学实习的老师、辅导机构的兼职老师。
Before the spread of the new coronavirus pneumonia, he was a teacher, a part-time tutor at a high school in Wuhan.
他爱好广泛，以前留学学过录音工程，拍电影、MV，平时还搞搞说唱。
He loved a wide range of, before studying abroad learned recording engineering, film, MV, usually also engaged in rapping.
从2020年1月23号开始，吴悠抱着“应该做点事”的想法，变身“骑手”，骑着他的小电瓶车，奔波在武汉的大街小巷，给物资匮乏的病患家庭送去口罩、酒精和药物。
Starting on January 23, 2020, Wu Yo transformed himself into a "rider," riding his mini-electric car through the streets of Wuhan, delivering masks, alcohol and drugs to needy families.
发烧的病人拿到药，有了几天缓冲期，去社区登记、等床位住院，再坚持下来。
Fever patients get medication, have a buffer period of a few days, go to the community registration, wait for the bed to be hospitalized, then persist.
大多数时候，他不敢停留太久，很多求助者只在防盗门猫眼里看到他的头顶，有时候他们甚至背对背说话。
Most of the time, he was afraid to stay too long, and many suitors only saw his head in a burglar-proof cat's eye, sometimes with their backs to each other.
吴悠说，重要是药物能送到对方手上，自己不是英雄，也怕感染。
Wu said that the important thing is that the drug can be delivered to each other, he is not a hero, also afraid of infection.
武汉变憔悴了，二十多年来他却第一次真正地注视这座城市。
Wuhan became gaunt, but for the first time in more than twenty years he really looked at the city.
有一次送药回来，开过空旷的首义广场时，他停下发了一会儿呆，突然领悟到武汉人的精神——只要认为是对的，就先“搞了再说”的江湖气。
When he returned from a trip to drive the empty Piazza del Estado, he stopped for a moment and suddenly realized the spirit of the Wuhan people - as long as they think it is right, "do it again."
以下是他的讲述：“一个人戴口罩没用，都戴才行”我是武汉香港路一家培训机构的老师，也在一所中学实习，担任老师，学生都是00后。
I am a teacher at a training institute on Wuhan Hong Kong Road. I also work as an intern in a middle school. I work as a teacher.
疫情扩大后，学生很害怕，我不知道应该怎么去安慰他们。
After the outbreak spread, the students were afraid. I didn't know how to comfort them.
我爷爷以前在部队里负责卫生，当时他在家看着电视新闻，说了一句“一个人戴口罩没有用，都戴才行。
My grandfather used to be in charge of sanitation in the army when he watched the TV news at home and said, "It's no use wearing a mask.
”我不断想起爷爷说的话，不喜欢宅家里，也不想做局外人，想告诉学生，虽然自己不是超级英雄，但可以尽力解决一些问题，所以开始送家里囤的一些口罩给别人。
I kept thinking about what Grandpa had said, didn't like the house, didn't want to be an outsider, and wanted to tell the students that although I wasn't a superhero, I could do everything I could to solve some problems, so I began to give away some masks for my family, according to the source.
大年初一，我拿了300个口罩出门，一包50个，骑车沿路发。
New Year's Day, I took 300 masks out of the door, a pack of 50, cycling along the road.
那天是个阴天，街上没什么人，没发出去。
It was a cloudy day and there was no one on the street.
后来我到小区居委会，消息一传十，很快发得只剩100个，又到隔壁小区，不到两个小时就发光了。
Later I went to the neighborhood committee, the news spread ten, soon to only 100, and then to the next community, less than two hours on the light.
很多人都以为我是政府的工作人员，还问我“封城”封多久，我说我不是政府的，“那你为什么发口罩？”我说做志愿者的，他们也没有反应过来。
A lot of people thought I was a government worker and asked me how long it was closed. I said I wasn't government. "Then why are you wearing a mask?" I said volunteers, and they didn't react.
几天后，我的学生加入，他骑单车，我开电瓶车，我们写了个牌子“免费帮送口罩、药物”。
A few days later, my students joined, he rode his bike, I drove the electric car, we wrote a brand "Free Mask, Drugs."
吴悠/图源微博我还记得第一个求助者，她发烧了，家附近什么都没有，让我送退烧药。
Wu YY / Tu Yuan Weibo I remember the first suitor, she had a fever, there is nothing near home, let me send antipyretics.
我去药店买了阿莫西林、头孢，骑电瓶车8公里，到约定的地方，把药放下，掉头，看着他男朋友出来拿药，隔着马路跟我吼了声谢谢，还在那放一包烟给我。
I went to the drugstore and bought Amoxilin, cefe, rode eight kilometers in a bottle, went to the appointed place, put down the medicine, turned around, watched his boyfriend come out to get the medicine, shouted at me across the street, and gave me a pack of cigarettes.
才“封城”时，物资非常紧张。
When the city was closed, supplies were very tight.
有一天早上，我们跑遍5公里内的所有药店，只找到一盒连花清瘟胶囊，还是个有草字头的盗版（“莲”花清瘟）。
One morning we ran through all the drugstores within five kilometers and found only a box of rinderpest capsules, or a pirated Rinderpest with a cursive prefix.
有一次，我们只能把一板胶囊拆开，这家给一半，那家给一半。
Once we had to take a capsule apart, one for half and one half for the house.
阿比朵尔的价格翻了三倍。
The price of Abidol tripled.
口罩鱼龙混杂，消毒酒精的价格也在翻倍。
Masks are mixed, and the cost of disinfecting alcohol is doubling.
（编者注：2月4日，中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟和她的团队在武汉公布治疗新型冠状病毒肺炎的最新研究成果。
(Note to Editor: On February 4, Li Lanjuan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level group of experts of the National Health Care Commission, announced in Wuhan the latest research results on the treatment of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
他们发现阿比朵尔能显著抑制冠状病毒复制，建议列入国家卫健委新型冠状病毒肺炎第六版诊疗方案。
They found that Abidol could significantly inhibit the replication of coronavirus and suggested that it be included in the 6th edition of the National Health Commission's new coronavirus pneumonia.
）开始只有我和学生两个人，随着更多人加入，我们的分工更为明确：线上志愿者登记药物需求，朋友帮忙寄外地的物资进来，我们提前规划路线，再送给求助者。
) At first it was just me and the students. As more people joined us, our division of labor became clearer: online volunteers registered for drugs, friends helped send supplies out of the country, and we planned ahead for the route and sent it to the caller.
现在我们有个群，专门给250个家庭送药。
Now we have a group that specializes in delivering medicine to 250 families.
加上之前送的，现在大概送了500户。
Together with the previous ones, about 500 are now delivered.
送得最多的是退烧的奥司他韦，一盒管一天，成人版的没有了，大家都吃儿童版，所以耗量大。
The most given was oseltamivir, a tube for one day, no adult version, we all eat children's version, so heavy consumption.
现在武汉人已经有默契，像阿比朵尔这些药很难买，大家都不会开口问了。
Now Wuhan people have tacit understanding, such as Abidol these drugs are very difficult to buy, everyone will not ask.
我们前一天晚上会按求助信息来设计第二天的路线，有时候一两百米就纠结蛮久，路线最好是圆圈，一趟走完，覆盖的面积越大越好。
We'd plan our route the night before with help messages, sometimes a hundred or two hundred metres, and the best way was to walk in a circle. The bigger the area, the better.
我一次会给一户送4天的药，上午11点出门，送完回，有时候搞到凌晨一两点。
I would give medicine to a family for four days at a time. I would go out at 11 in the morning and send them back.
我的电瓶车一块电池跑两个小时，50公里左右。
My battery runs two hours a battery, about 50 kilometers.
这小电动车本来是拿来买菜、散散心，现在跑了快1000公里了。
This small electric car was originally used to buy vegetables, scattered mind, now running nearly 1000 kilometers.
骑行途中充电/受访者供图为了省空间，我把包装盒拆了，带着一大袋药，到了直接抓：连花清瘟4板，奥司他韦50袋，再配上380毫升的酒精、20个口罩，像某种形式的套餐。
To save space, I unpacked the box with a large bag of medicine and went straight to the following spot: Rinderpest 4, oseltamivir 50 bags, 380 ml alcohol, 20 masks, some form of set meal.
比较头疼的是，每隔三四天就要找药的新渠道，连花清瘟、奥司他韦、莫西沙星，一个个轮着来。
More headache is, every three or four days to find new drug channels, even Huaqing Distemper, oseltamivir, moxifloxacin, one after another.
找到一批歇一口气，再找下一批。
Take a break and find the next batch.
最开始找我朋友的药厂，现在他也托了三、四层关系了。
At first I looked for my friend's pharmaceutical factory, now he also entrusted three or four layers of relationship.
第一批药到的时候，我蛮开心，就带了一整箱出门，电瓶车都没地方搁脚，还挂了五六个塑料袋在车头，酒精塞在书包里，整个人臃肿得像轮胎人米其林。
When the first drugs arrived, I was so happy that I took a whole box out of the house, the electric car had no place to put it, and five or six plastic bags were hanging at the front, and the alcohol was in my schoolbag.
但问题来了，到目的地停车，我不能把药就放那里，怕丢。
But the problem is, stop at the destination. I can't just put the medicine there for fear of losing it.
所以只能抱着一大箱药上楼，有病人还以为我要整箱给他，但那个药一盒就能管三天，还有副作用，所以也没送多少出去。
One patient thought I was going to give him the whole case, but the medicine would last three days in a box and had side effects, so he didn't get much out.
除了主流的几个药，还有人要治乳腺癌、高血压、心脏病之类的药，所以又拉了个对接非新冠肺炎疾病的药的群。
In addition to a few mainstream drugs, there are people who want to treat breast cancer, hypertension, heart disease and so on, so pulled a group of drugs for non-crown pneumonia.
最开始我是免费送药，现在部分药收药店价，口罩和酒精免费送。
At first I was free to give medicine, now part of the drug collection pharmacy prices, masks and alcohol free delivery.
一方面是经济压力，垫了一万多了，另外是为了防止“伸手党”，或者有人囤药。
On the one hand is economic pressure, more than 10, 000 cushion, and on the other hand to prevent "reach out", or someone hoarding medicine.
之前有人说一个口罩没有，让我送，有人把我的微信直接发到各种家族群、同事群，都来要药，这违背我们给病人救急的初衷，原则是病人、老幼优先。
Before someone said that a mask did not, let me send, someone sent my message directly to various family groups, colleagues, all to ask for medicine, contrary to our original intention to give patients emergency, the principle is patients, children and older priority.
防盗门猫眼里只看到我的头顶我的装备一般是，戴个摩托车头盔，包住下巴，冲锋衣材质的羽绒服，还有皮手套，为了好擦拭酒精。
Burglar Door Cat's Eyes See Only My Head My outfit is usually a motorcycle helmet, chin encased, a down jacket made of submachine jackets, and leather gloves to wipe off the alcohol.
现在会穿防护服，戴上护目镜、手套。
Can now wear protective clothing, goggles, gloves.
手套每天换，但防护服、眼镜物资紧张，回来消完毒，挂外面通风。
Gloves change every day, but protective clothing, glasses material tension, come back to eliminate poison, hang outside ventilation.
一开始会有些忐忑，想到电影《传染病》的场景，不敢和对方有过多交流，有时我敲了门就闪，他们最多在防盗门猫眼里看到我的头顶，有时为了省时间，就像丢保龄球一样把东西丢在楼梯上，再打电话说一声。
At first you get scared, think of the movie "infectious disease" scene, not too much interaction with each other, sometimes I knock on the door, they see my head in the cat's eyes, sometimes to save time, like lost bowling things on the stairs, call again.
特殊时期大家讲话很干净利落，都直接问“XX药有吧？”，没有废话。
Special period everybody speaks very neatly, ask "XX medicine directly?", have no nonsense.
有一次求助的人出来拿药，穿着个黄色的睡衣，像《无间道》里接头一样，出现的时候就是个背影，靠着栏杆，他说，是你吧？我就说，是，给你放那了。
Once the helper came out to get the medicine, dressed in a yellow dressing-gown, like the connector in Infernal Affairs, and appeared with his back against the railing, he said, You? I said, yes, let you go.
有时候给老人送药，老人说不清楚地方，到了目的地还会在那里徘徊很久，花半个小时找到地方。
Sometimes he gave medicine to the old man, who could not tell the place, and lingered there long enough to find a place for half an hour.
有些老人不知道我是谁，我又忘了求助人叫什么，就蛮笼统地跟老人说，“你亲人喊我来给你送的”，老人又问多少钱，我说，你亲人给过了。
Some old people do not know who I am, I forget the name of the help, rather general to the old man, "your relatives called me to send you," and the old man asked how much money, I said, your relatives gave it.
把东西送到人手里就行，尽量不接触，但也有意外。
Just get things in the hands of people, try not to touch them, but there are accidents.
1月27号，给已经确诊新冠肺炎的病人送药，对方突然走得很近，给我鞠了一躬，出来我就把一次性雨衣丢进垃圾桶，还倒了84消毒水，防止环卫工感染，回到家喷酒精，脱掉外套，对着高温暖气一直照，再洗热水澡。
On January 27th, after delivering medicine to a patient who had been diagnosed with pneumonia, the other side came very close, bowed to me, came out with a disposable raincoat thrown into the garbage can, emptied the disinfectant 84, prevented the sanitation worker from getting infected, returned home to spray alcohol, took off the coat, and bathed in hot water.
当时有新闻报道，8楼的病人从来没去7楼，但7楼的人被感染了，听到这些很极端的例子会想，万一自己就是下一个呢？1月30号给一个疑似病人送药，他拿着药就走过来了，我在电动车的右边，他在左边，他想给我转账，我说不要紧，他估计也没听到，把头靠过来还想说什么，我就假装接电话走了。
It was reported that the patient on the 8th floor had never gone to the seventh floor, but the people on the seventh floor had been infected and thought, in case he was the next one to deliver medicine to a suspected patient on January 30th, I was on the right side of the electric car, he was on the left, he tried to transfer me.
回家立马喝药，我心脏之前做过手术，莫西沙星对心脏有副作用，那天也吃了。
I immediately drank medicine home, I had heart surgery before, moxifloxacin side effects on the heart, that day also took.
不过后来想开了，大不了一个我没了，至少救了两个，那也多赚了。
But then want to open, big I did not have, at least saved two, that also earned more.
后来听说，那几天的送药非常关键，吃药的几天时间让他们有一个缓冲期，联系好了医院。
Later, I heard that the delivery of medicine in those days is very crucial, take a few days to give them a buffer period, contact the hospital.
直到现在，我妈还不知道我在干什么，前几天我上了卫视，不过刚好她去买菜了，没看到。
Until now, my mother does not know what I am doing, the other day I went on TV, but she just went shopping, did not see.
吴悠的Vlog/图源微博我爸知道我在做的事情。
Wu Yo's Vlog / Source Weibo My dad knew what I was doing.
他有一次发信息鼓励我，说很为我骄傲。
He once sent me a message of encouragement, saying he was very proud of me.
其实我们父子两个都不太会表达感情，他从来没有给我发过六七排这么长的消息。
Neither father nor son could express himself very well, and he never gave me six or seven such long lines.
偶尔压力很大，会想到一线的医生，他们可能还比我年轻，那么大压力，我不能不扛压。
Occasionally the pressure is high, will think of the first-line doctors, they may still be younger than me, so great pressure, I have to bear pressure.
有一家人让我印象很深，80多岁的老夫妻染了新冠肺炎，50多岁的儿子和儿媳妇去照顾他们，感染上了，20多岁的年轻人再去照顾他父母，又染上了，传染给了自己的媳妇，一家人从上至下6个人，除了小孩，都染上了。
One family impressed me. An old couple in their 80s got pneumonia, their sons and daughters-in-law in their fifties took care of them and got infected. Young people in their 20s went back to take care of his parents, caught it, passed it on to their daughter-in-law, and infected all but the children.
他们就住在我对面的小区，状态最轻的孙媳妇向我求助过。
They lived in the neighborhood opposite me, and the youngest daughter-in-law asked me for help.
我看到她的朋友圈，很焦虑。
I was anxious to see her circle of friends.
现在一家人都住进不同医院，老人很严重，用上了呼吸机。
The family now live in different hospitals, and the old man is very serious and has a ventilator.
理论上来讲，他们是在“封城”之前感染，那时候消息是说“有限人传人”，他们也没有引起重视，一开始觉得是流感，不知道怎么去防护。
In theory, they were infected before the "closure," when the news was that there was "limited human-to-human transmission," and they didn't get much attention, initially feeling flu, not knowing how to protect themselves.
我的活动区域在汉口，但求助者也常问，武昌、青山什么时候来？有时候跑得远，青山单程都是60公里，但我还是会去。
My area of activity in Hankou, but also often asked, Wuchang, Qingshan when? Sometimes run far, Castle Peak is 60 kilometers one way, but I will go.
总说第二天休息一下，第二天也和学生出来了。
I always said to rest the next day, the next day out with the students.
有时候崩溃是心理上的。
Sometimes crashes are psychological.
曾经有一位妈妈求助，她没确诊，但很绝望，丈夫不在了，总是会说万一自己没了，孩子也会跟着走之类的话。
Once a mother asked for help, she did not diagnose, but despair, the husband is not there, always said in case they are gone, the children will follow and so on.
怕她有个三长两短，我把电话留给她，跟她说有事就找我，24小时不关机。
Afraid of something wrong with her, I left the phone to her and asked her to call me if I had anything to do with it.
也有一些很温暖的瞬间。
There were also some very warm moments.
有一天我送药到晚上快两点，离家30公里，手机和电瓶车没电了，我在群里说了一声，病友、朋友立马行动起来，一个人骑自行车过来送充电宝，一个人走过来送充电线，我推车两三公里，另一家人帮我把车抬到楼上去充电，那天到家已经是凌晨五点了，心里却很感动。
One day I delivered medicine until two o'clock in the evening, 30 kilometers away from home, cell phone and battery car ran out, I said in the group, a friend, a bike to send charges, a man came over to deliver charging line, I trolley two or three kilometers, another family to help me lift the car upstairs to recharge, that day home at 5: 00 am, was very moved.
武汉人的精神，“搞了再说”之前我奶奶脑出血，人还清醒，CT检查出没有新冠肺炎，爸爸想带她住院，但跑了好几家医院都没有床位。
Wuhan people's spirit, "do it again" before my grandmother cerebral hemorrhage, people are still awake, CT detection did not have pneumonia, Dad wanted to take her to hospital, but several hospitals did not have beds.
2月9号我发了个微博，求助大家的意见，第二天就看到至少100条私信，最后转发接近两万条。
On February 9 I posted a microblog asking for advice, and the next day I read at least 100 personal letters and forwarded nearly 20,000.
协和、同济医院的教授看到情况，打电话过来，看了奶奶的CT，都说可以在家静养，后来送奶奶去了中心医院打针，情况稳定下来。
Concorde, Tongji Hospital professor saw the situation, called over to see Grandma's CT, said they can stay at home, later sent grandmother to the central hospital injection, the situation stabilized.
我受到过别人的帮助，也在帮助别人。
I've been helped, and I'm helping others.
现在很多人也想加入我们，我们挑人会比较谨慎，尽量选对城市有关怀的本地人，再就是身体能吃得消，不能三天打鱼两天晒网。
Now a lot of people want to join us, we pick people more cautious, try to choose the local people who care about the city, or the body can endure, can not three days fishing two days.
前段时间听说有个志愿者，把一个车的物资接走了，不知道到哪里去了，那都是要送到医院去的物资啊，其他志愿者报警了。
Some time ago, I heard about a volunteer who picked up the contents of a car and did not know where it was going. It was all supplies destined for the hospital.
我是90后，平时我是蛮有个性的人，在培训班教传媒，在一所中学是正在实习的老师，留学学过录音工程，拍过MV，搞过电子竞技。
I am 90 years old, usually I am quite personality people, in the training courses to teach the media, in a high school is a trainee teacher, study abroad study recording engineering, filmed MV, engaged in electronic sports.
但真正到了（需要）共性的时候，也会有很强的同理心。
But when it comes to commonality, there is a strong empathy.
以前武汉是有丰富的夜生活的，现在晚上一片漆黑，六七点钟就啥都没有了，我住的地方离江滩很近，现在也封了，连想买个手套、借充电宝都没有，走几条路才只有个孤零零的便利店。
Wuhan used to have a lot of nightlife, but now it's dark at night, there's nothing left for six or seven o'clock. I live near the beach and now it's closed.
吴悠在上课/受访者供图以前说“现在的生活来之不易，你要好好珍惜”，都是很敷衍地说，现在觉得，那真不是一般的来之不易。
Wu Yue said before the class / interviewee supply graph that "the present life is hard-won, you should take good care of it," are very perfunctory, now feel that it really is not ordinary hard-won.
这个地方变得憔悴，却更爱它了。
The place pined and loved more.
有一次送药回来，路过纪念辛亥革命的首义广场，以前车水马龙，现在光秃秃，很空旷。
A drug delivery back, passing the memory of the 1911 Revolution, the Piazza, formerly crowded, now bare, very open.
我站在那里休息了一会，打开手机查辛亥革命的历史，是因为消息泄露，在武汉提前引爆的一场革命。
I stood there to rest for a while, open the mobile phone to check the history of the 1911 revolution, because of news leaked, in Wuhan earlier detonated a revolution.
易中天评价武汉人是“搞了再说”的精神，之前没有感触，但现在我和学生、身边的朋友，在做这些事情的时候，只要认为是对的，就搞了再说，“60公里那么远回不来了怎么办？”——去了再说。
Yi Zhongtian evaluation of Wuhan people is the spirit of "do it again", before there is no feeling, but now I and the students, friends around me, when doing these things, as long as they think it is right, make it say, "What if I can't get back so far as 60 kilometers?" - Go back.
这次很多媒体都来采访我，一开始还想官方一点，教科书一样、在国旗下讲话那种感觉。
This time a lot of media came to interview me, and at first I wanted to feel like a textbook, speaking under the national flag.
但其实我内心很简单，四个字“搞了再说”。
But in fact my heart is very simple, four words "do it again."
一开始觉得送完今天就结束吧，但现在也做了这么久，认为是对的就做下来了。
At first I thought it was the end of the day, but now I have done it for so long that I think it is right.
疫情前，我本来有个剧本和好朋友一起合作，要到美国一个小电影节看看。
Before the outbreak, I had a script and good friends to work together, to see a small film festival in the United States.
机票退了，电影节也取消了。
Tickets were refunded and the festival was cancelled.
我那个武汉朋友在美国，美国有乙型流感，武汉有新冠肺炎，他进退两难，后来去了深圳。
My Wuhan friend in the United States, the United States has influenza B, Wuhan has a new crown pneumonia, he was in a dilemma, and then went to Shenzhen.
疫情结束之后，最想出去旅游一趟。
After the epidemic, I'd like to go out for a trip.
这个事情之前，我觉得自己是蛮普通一人，无非爱好多了点，现在感觉自己有些变化，多了份担子，不太熟悉的人以前会觉得我冷漠，这次也重新认识了我。
Before this, I thought I was quite ordinary people, but a little more loving, now I feel a little changed, more burden, less familiar people will think I cold, this time also reacquainted with me.
吴悠送药途经汉口中一路隧道/受访者供图后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Wu Yo passed through Hankou Zhongzhou Road Tunnel / Interviewee for background reply & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; join in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
深夜的武汉街头，他骑电瓶车送药。
Late at night on the streets of Wuhan, he took medicine by car.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "深夜的武汉街头，他骑电瓶车送药";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; late at night in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "“现在的生活来之不易，你要好好珍惜”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
