我已经把一半病人送出重症病区。
I've sent half the patients out of the critical area.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月17日，湖北省孝感市孝南区妇幼保健院，医护人员在进行体温测量。
Feb. 17, Xiaoyan City, Hubei Province Xiaonan Maternal and Child Health Center, medical staff in the body temperature measurement.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄本文约3780字预计阅读时间10分钟口述：四川大学华西医院重症医学科主任康 焰整理：中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴 王鑫昕康焰是四川大学华西医院重症医学科主任，也是华西医院第三批支援湖北医疗队队长。
About 3780 words estimated reading time 10 minutes oral: Sichuan University Huaxi Hospital Severe Medicine Director Kang Yam Wang Jiaxing Wang Xinyin Wang Jiaxing is the Director of Severe Medicine of Sichuan University Huaxi Hospital and the third support team leader of Huaxi Hospital.
2月7日抵达武汉后，这支130人的队伍接手了湖北省人民医院东院的两个重症病区。
Arriving in Wuhan on February 7, the 130-strong team took over two severe cases in the east courtyard of the Hubei People's Hospital.
10天来，他们累计收治了128名新冠肺炎重症患者，其中有61人已经转至方舱医院及社区定点医院等轻症患者收治点，2名患者死亡。
Over the past 10 days, they have admitted 128 patients with severe pneumonia, 61 of whom have been transferred to light cases such as the Fang She Hospital and the Community Hospitals. Two patients have died.
与武汉市近5%的新冠肺炎患者死亡率相比，取得这样的治疗成果实属不易。
Compared with the mortality rate of nearly 5% of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia in Wuhan, it is not easy to get such a result.
康焰仍感到遗憾，2例死亡都出现在早期医院氧气供给不足的时候。
Kang still regrets that both deaths occurred at a time when oxygen supplies in early hospitals were inadequate.
以下是他的口述：　　红黄绿病人我们接手的时候，两个病区80张床位，已经有77个病人在那里了。
Here's his dictation: Red, Yellow and Green When we took over, there were 80 beds in the two sick areas, and 77 patients were already there.
东院这边考虑得很周到，每个病区给我们留下了1名骨干大夫和1名主任护士长来帮忙协调。
The East Side was very thoughtful, leaving us with a skeleton doctor and a chief nurse to help coordinate in each ward.
湖北省人民医院东院本来是一家综合性医院，现在完全收治新冠肺炎重症患者，很多流程需要理顺。
Hubei Provincial People's Hospital East Hospital was originally a general hospital, now fully treated patients with severe coronary pneumonia, many procedures need to be straightened out.
我们进驻后的第一件事就是对病人做评估和筛查，找出真正有死亡风险的病人。
The first thing we did after we moved in was to evaluate and screen patients to identify those who were at a real risk of death.
我们把病区细分为绿区、黄区和红区。
We subdivide the disease area into green, yellow and red areas.
绿区收治症状相对较轻的病人，做一般的治疗就行了。
Green area accepts the patient with relatively light symptom, do general treatment to just go.
黄区收治新冠肺炎症状不严重，但合并有基础病如糖尿病、冠心病、高血压的患者，新冠肺炎常诱发和加重这些合并疾病。
New crown pneumonia in yellow area is not serious, but patients with basic diseases such as diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypertension, new crown pneumonia often induce and aggravate these complications.
红区则收治器官功能紊乱严重，需要器官功能支持，如高流量吸氧、上呼吸机的患者。
In the red area, organ dysfunction is serious, and organ function support is needed, such as patients with high flow oxygen absorption and ventilator.
粗略统计，红、黄、绿区的患者各占约10%、15%、75%。
Roughly 10 percent, 15 percent and 75 percent of patients in the red, yellow and green areas, respectively, were rough.
3个区的医疗和护理的强度和方案都是完全不一样的。
The intensity and programmes of care in the three districts are completely different.
例如，集中力量到红区的病人，给他们最精准的诊疗。
For example, concentrate on reaching patients in the red zone and give them the most accurate diagnosis and treatment.
把红区的死亡率降下来，整个病人群的死亡率就下来了。
By lowering the mortality rate in the red zone, the mortality rate of the entire patient population will come down.
对绿区，几名护理人员就能照顾到所有患者的需求了。
In the Green Zone, a few paramedics can attend to the needs of all patients.
国家的诊疗方案提到，对重症病人要集中成建制管理，1名患者配置0.8名医生、3名护士。
The State programme refers to the centralized management of patients with severe illnesses, with 0.8 doctors and 3 nurses per patient.
但我们80张床总共只有130人，只有三分之一的力量，我们就需要作顶层设计，进行分级管理，也能充分利用人力。
But with a total of only 130 beds and only a third of our strength, we need top-level design, hierarchical management, and the ability to make the most of our manpower.
第一周我们的主要工作就是根据现实情况拟订规程。
In the first week our main task was to draw up protocols based on reality.
其实要磨合的地方很多，比如每天怎么查房、怎么交接班。
In fact, to wear a lot of places, such as how to check room every day, how to transfer.
在华西医院，我们有非常成体系的“三级查房”制度，平均1个病人要查近1个小时。
At Huaxi Hospital, we have a very systematic "three-level house inspection" system, an average of 1 patient to check nearly an hour.
但现在是“战时”，医护人员少，而且要尽量减少待在病房里的时间，降低感染新冠肺炎的风险。
But it is "wartime," with fewer paramedics and as little time as possible in the wards, reducing the risk of new crown pneumonia.
于是我们把体系化的查房放在病区外，明确每次进病区要做的事情，在保证查房质量的同时减少在病房内的暴露时间。
So we put the systematized room outside the ward, and make sure what we should do every time we enter the area, and reduce the time of exposure in the ward while ensuring the quality of the room.
此外，每天下午4点30分，华西医院三个批次的援鄂医生以及华西医院本部的专家都要远程进行多学科的疑难病例讨论。
In addition, every day at 4: 30 p.m., three batches of Huaxi Hospital's Dr. Huaxi, as well as experts from the Huaxi Hospital Headquarters, are required to conduct a multi-disciplinary case discussion remotely.
武汉有新冠肺炎患者，四川也有，两地的救治工作能实现有机的协调。
Wuhan has the new crown pneumonia patients, Sichuan also has, the treatment of the two places can achieve organic coordination.
我们努力的目标是，对湖北病人的干预和治疗能达到华西医院日常工作的水准。
The goal of our efforts is that the intervention and treatment of Hubei patients can reach the standard of daily work in Huaxi Hospital.
不能因为这是一个紧急的事情，就降低标准，病人也许就因为一个细节的疏漏而出问题。
Just because this is a matter of urgency, lower the standard, and the patient may have a problem with an oversight of the details.
目前看来，我们的工作开展很顺畅。
At present, it seems that our work is proceeding smoothly.
截至2月17日，我们收治的128名患者中，已经有61人转为轻症离开医院，重症转轻症率已接近50%。
As at 17 February, 61 of the 128 patients we had admitted had been admitted to hospitals with mild cases, and the rate of severe mild cases was close to 50 per cent.
一般来说，转出医院意味着脱离了死亡的风险。
In general, moving out of the hospital means leaving the risk of death.
10天里，有2名患者死亡，他们的年龄都接近80岁。
In 10 days, two patients died, both approaching the age of 80.
他们死亡时，医院的氧气供给还跟不上，只能给他们吸氧，无法通高流量氧气或上无创呼吸机。
At the time of their death, the hospital's oxygen supply had not kept pace and they had to be given oxygen, unable to pass through high-flow oxygen or a non-invasive ventilator.
对我们挑战最大的还是红区的患者。
The biggest challenge for us is in the red zone.
现在红区有4名患者，我对其中3名患者的治疗比较有信心，有一名情况不稳定，波动很大。
There are now four patients in the red zone, and I am more confident in the treatment of three of them, one of whom is unstable and volatile.
我还想纠正公众的一个认识，ECMO（人工膜肺）并不是一定能救命的手段，迫不得已才会使用它。
I would also like to correct the public's perception that ECMO is not necessarily a life-saving tool and is used only as a last resort.
费用是一方面，ECMO还会给患者带来很多并发症，如栓塞、感染、出凝血障碍等。
Cost is on the one hand, ECMO also brings a lot of complications, such as embolism, infection, blood clots and so on.
事实上，据我了解，武汉使用ECMO的患者的死亡率相当高，活下来的寥寥无几。
In fact, as far as I know, Wuhan patients who use ECMO mortality rate is quite high, few have survived.
它是一个系统工程，需要各方的支持。
It is a systems engineering project that requires the support of all parties.
在不适合的时候上ECMO，对病人病情的恢复作用不大，对医疗资源也是巨大的消耗。
ECMO in the wrong time, the recovery of the patient's illness is not significant, medical resources are also a huge consumption.
需要的氧气量，多了10倍都不止我们这支队伍的组成是99名护士，30名医生，1名医学工程师。
More than 10 times the oxygen we need Our team is made up of 99 nurses, 30 doctors, and a medical engineer.
带医学工程师来，就是因为前期支援队反映，各医院供氧大都存在问题。
Medical engineers are brought here because the support team reported that most of the oxygen supply problems in hospitals.
正常情况，整个ICU只有20张床位，患者吸氧量一般是每分钟2-5升，还不是所有患者都需要。
Normally, the entire ICU has only 20 beds, and oxygen consumption is typically 2-5 litres per minute, which is not yet the case for all patients.
新冠肺炎是呼吸衰竭病，重症患者大多需要吸氧，很多需要的还是高流量氧气，每分钟60升，需求多了10倍都不止。
New crown pneumonia is respiratory failure, most patients need oxygen, a lot of need or high-flow oxygen, 60 liters per minute, more than 10 times more than needs.
医院一开始用氧气罐顶着，但这很不安全，氧气压力大，氧气罐运输不便，还涉及消毒问题。
The hospital was initially held up with oxygen tanks, but this was unsafe, oxygen pressure was high, oxygen tanks were difficult to transport and disinfection was involved.
制氧机也没法使用，不仅流量不够，还有体积过大、用电负荷过高、噪音大等问题。
Oxygen generator can not be used, not only insufficient flow, but also too large, excessive load, noise and other issues.
最后，我们的医学工程师改造了供氧系统，增加供氧设备、改装供氧管道。
Finally, our medical engineers modified the oxygen supply system, added oxygen equipment and modified the oxygen supply pipeline.
到2月15日晚上，基本解决了病区的供氧问题。
By the evening of February 15, the oxygen supply in the affected area had been basically solved.
这也提醒我们，在医院建设阶段要考虑特殊情况下的医用气体负荷，预留管线。
This also reminds us to consider the special medical gas load in the hospital construction stage, reserve the pipeline.
我们这支队伍中，数量最多的是重症医学科的医护人员，有40名护士和6名医生。
The largest number of our team is in the field of intensive care, with 40 nurses and 6 doctors.
据我所知，这次支援湖北的医护人员中，约有10%是重症医学科的，中华医学会重症医学分会有4000多名会员来了湖北。
To my knowledge, about 10% of the medical staff supporting Hubei are in the field of intensive care. More than 4000 members of the Chinese Medical Association's Severe Medicine Division have come to Hubei.
在四川，县一级的医院都动员起来支援湖北。
In Sichuan, county-level hospitals have mobilized to support Hubei.
我们科室接到消息要来武汉支援、重点收治重症病人的时候，医院就从其他科室抽调人员到ICU学习。
Our department to receive information to Wuhan to support, focus on critically ill patients, the hospital from other departments of personnel to study in the ICU.
理论和临床实践操作刚培训完，我们就接到支援湖北的指派。
As soon as the theoretical and clinical practice was completed, we received support for Hubei's assignment.
后期的实践证明，要不是培训及时，我们自己医院的ICU都快因为人力问题而无法运转了，经过培训后被派到湖北支援的医生也展现出了较好的重症救治能力。
Practice has proved that, but for the timely training, the ICU in our own hospital would not be able to function quickly because of manpower problems.
考虑到重症患者多是老年人，我们团队还有来自老年医学科、肾内科、心内科的医生。
Given that the majority of patients are elderly, our team also includes physicians from geriatrics, nephrology, and cardiology.
新型冠状病毒攻击患者的心脏、肝、肾等器官时，我们希望通过多学科团队的合作，找到更好的应对方法。
When the new coronavirus attacks the heart, liver, kidney and other organs of the patient, we hope to find a better response through the cooperation of multidisciplinary teams.
我们的团队里还有3名心理卫生中心、具备心理咨询师证的护士，对医护人员和患者开展心理咨询和干预。
Our team also has 3 mental health centers, nurses with psychological counselor's certificate to provide psychological consultation and intervention to medical staff and patients.
我们收治的病人中有一名73岁、有抑郁倾向的老人，因生病感到羞愧，觉得自己感染了家人，还觉得自己有时小便失禁，给护士添麻烦。
One of our patients, a 73-year-old depressed elderly man, was ashamed of his illness, felt infected with his family, and felt that he sometimes urinated incontinence, causing trouble to the nurse.
也有患者被我们抢救回来，但因为新冠肺炎和并发症很难受，求我们让他“去殡仪馆”。
There were also patients we rescued, but as the new crown pneumonia and complications are very difficult, please let him "go to the funeral home."
还有绿区的病人，3个人一间病房，个别病人嫌同病房的人闹腾，要求转病房……各种情况都可能碰到。
There are patients in the Green Zone, three in a ward, individual patients suspected of being noisy wards, request transfer ward... all kinds of circumstances can be encountered.
通过我们心理咨询护士的疏导，大都得到了很好的改善。
Through our psychological counseling nurses to channel, most have been very good improvement.
为了防止医护人员被感染，我们组织队员提前做培训，对入住的酒店进行了分区，甚至详细到回到酒店从哪个门进，进来之前要做什么，穿什么衣服，上什么电梯，还让每个医护人员在房间划出清洁区和潜在污染区。
To prevent health care workers from getting infected, we have arranged training in advance, zoned the hotel they stayed in, and even detailed the doors through which they entered the hotel, what they had to do before entering, what clothes they wore and what elevators they went to.
我们明确规定不允许大家串门，盒饭都是领到自己房间吃。
We expressly do not allow people to visit the door, boxed rice is brought to their own room to eat.
庆幸的是，华西医院有很多应对自然灾害和大型事故的经验和教训，已经形成了体系化的流程和应急预案，所以面对紧急情况也有条不紊。
Fortunately, Huaxi Hospital has a lot of experience and lessons learned to deal with natural disasters and large-scale accidents, has formed a systematic process and emergency plan, so the emergency situation is also orderly.
总死亡率并不高武汉患者早期死亡率较高应该有多种因素。
Overall mortality is not high Wuhan patients early mortality rate should have a variety of factors.
目前，总死亡率并不比“非典”、禽流感更高。
At present, the overall mortality rate is no higher than SARS and avian influenza.
客观来说，武汉的医疗水平是不低的。
Objectively speaking, Wuhan medical standards are not low.
出现这样的情况，是因为突然出现了这么多病人，医疗资源跟不上，病人没有得到较为规范的治疗。
This is because so many patients have suddenly appeared, medical resources have not kept pace and patients have not been treated more regularly.
湖北省外，人力物力都能跟上，死亡率就相对较低。
Outside Hubei province, manpower and material resources all can follow, the mortality rate is relatively low.
我相信，在湖北、在武汉，一旦全国各地的医疗救援力量到位，病人都得到规范的治疗后，死亡率一定会下去的。
I believe that in Hubei, Wuhan, once the medical rescue forces throughout the country, patients have been standardized treatment, the death rate will certainly go down.
降低死亡率无非两个阶段，第一是减少危重病人的数量，避免患者由轻转重；第二是降低重症患者的死亡率，尽可能由重转轻。
The first is to reduce the number of critically ill patients and avoid a shift from light to moderate weight loss; the second is to reduce the mortality rate of patients with severe illnesses, from heavy to light as possible.
我们医疗队的定位是收治重症病人，所以我们的工作主要是后一个，前一个的工作应该在医院之外。
Our medical team is positioned to treat patients with severe illnesses, so our work is mainly the latter one, the former should be outside the hospital.
我认为，对病人的评估要更提前一点，不要等发展到重症再分“红区”“绿区”。
In my opinion, patients should be assessed a little earlier, do not wait for the development of severe reclassifications "red zone" and "green zone."
病人处于轻症的时候，就要筛查出那些可能发展为重症的，提前干预。
When a patient is in a mild state of illness, he or she is screened for early intervention that may develop into severe illness.
这势必导致重症医生的介入要提前。
This will inevitably lead to the intervention of critically ill doctors ahead of time.
现在武汉市新冠肺炎患者的死亡率在逐步下降，还是很给人信心的。
Now the mortality rate of patients with new crown pneumonia in Wuhan is gradually declining, or very confident.
面对重大公共事件时，我明显感受到医患关系的缓和，患者家属对我们的信任度很高。
In the face of major public events, I obviously feel the tenderness of the doctor-patient relationship, and the trust of the patient's family is very high.
这次在武汉，一个老婆婆得接受锁骨下静脉穿刺插管术。
This time in Wuhan, an old woman had to undergo subclavian vein puncture and intubation.
平时，我们得和家属反复解释情况，请家属签知情同意书，但这次只能远程视频，我们给出医疗决策，家属都说“好”“谢谢大夫”，反而是老婆婆开玩笑说：“你个不孝女，医生说什么你都说好，不怕我死在这儿吗？”我还记得2008年汶川地震的时候，很多年轻人要接受截肢手术。
Usually, we have to explain the situation to the family, ask family members to sign informed consent, but this time only remote video, we gave a medical decision, the family said "good" "thank you doctor," but the old woman joked: "You are unfilial, doctor said you said good, not afraid I died here?
为了让他们更容易配义肢，我们都是尽量多留一寸，可一旦判断失误，就可能要截第二次、第三次。
To make it easier for them to fit a prosthetic, we try to stay as long as we can, but if we misjudge, we may have to intercept a second and a third time.
那时，家属都很理解。
At the time, the family understood.
但要放在平常，很多医生就会稳妥起见，一次到位，不愿意冒险。
But on a regular basis, many doctors will be on the safe side, once in a while, unwilling to take risks.
医患之间不信任，受害的一定是患者。
Distrust between doctors and patients must be the victims.
我本来应该是作为第二批支援队援助湖北的，当时行李托运了，登机牌都办好了，上级部门打来电话，说我另有安排，暂缓支援，机场工作人员又费了很大力气才把我的行李挑出来。
I was supposed to be assisting Hubei as the second batch of support team. When the luggage was checked and boarding passes were all ready, the superior phoned to say that I had other arrangements to hold back support.
当时我很失落，觉得出征仪式办了，同事朋友关心我的电话也打了，那几天都不好意思出门。
At that time I was very frustrated, feel that the military ceremony to do, colleagues and friends concerned about my phone call, those days are too shy to go out.
一周后，我接到通知，要作为第三批支援队的队长。
A week later, I was told to be captain of the third support team.
我知道自己一定会来，所以都没拆之前打包好的行李。
I knew I would come, so I didn't unpack the luggage I had packed before.
我想起“非典”的时候，我和同是医生的夫人没有商量，就在各自的科室报名上一线，也没想才几岁的孩子谁来照顾。
I think of "SARS", I and the wife of the same doctor did not discuss, on the registration line in their respective departments, also do not think of a few years old children who will take care of.
谈不上抛头颅洒热血，救死扶伤就是我们这个职业该做的事情。
Not to speak of the blood sprinkling head, saving lives and injuries is what our profession should do.
出了疫情，就该我们上。
When it happens, we're the ones to blame.
今天朋友告诉我，成都和北京的街头已经开始堵车了。
Today, my friends told me that the streets of Chengdu and Beijing are already blocked.
这是好消息，说明人们的生活在逐步恢复正常，大家不那么恐惧新型冠状病毒了。
The good news is that life is gradually returning to normal and people are less afraid of the new coronavirus.
但做好防护，是我们一定要反复给大家强调的。
But do a good job of protection, we must be repeatedly stressed to everyone.
很多人问我疫情结束后最想干什么。
Many people asked me what I wanted to do after the epidemic ended.
我这个年龄了，还真没想做什么。
At my age, I really don't want to do anything.
但此刻，我最大的愿望，就是疫情尽快结束，大家的工作生活恢复正常，这支队伍130人来，最后130人都能平安地回去。
But at this point, my greatest wish is that the epidemic is over as soon as possible, that everyone's working life will return to normal, that the team of 130 people, and finally 130 people, will be able to return safely.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我已经把一半病人送出重症病区。
I've sent half the patients out of the critical area.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我已经把一半病人送出重症病区";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I've sent half of my patients out of critically ill & quot;;
var msg_desc = "怎样降低死亡率";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; How to lower its mortality rate;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
