围炉特稿 | 全球视野下的疫情（上）。
Epidemic situation in a global perspective (top).
围炉。
Aperture furnace.
围炉                      。
Aperture furnace.
围炉。
Aperture furnace.
围炉，大学生思想、经历的交流平台。
Circle furnace, college students thought, experience of the exchange platform.
以对话为载体，发现身边有意思的世界。
Take the dialogue as the carrier, discover the interesting world around.
香港大学｜上海纽约大学｜复旦大学｜香港城市大学｜香港中文大学｜北京大学｜中国人民大学 | 清华大学。
University of New York, Shanghai, University of New York, University of Hong Kong, less than Beijing University of the People's University of China.
（图源：Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases, by Johns Hopkins CSSE）当新型冠状病毒正在全球蔓延开来时，人们的生活受到了什么样的影响呢？本期围炉特稿，来自世界不同国家和地区的24位大学生分享了他们的经历与感受，展现大学生眼中全球视野下的疫情。
(Source: Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases, by Johns Hopkins CSSE) What is the impact on people's lives when the new coronavirus is spreading around the globe?
感谢所有受访者的参与，篇幅所限，仅摘录部分内容。
Thanks to the participation of all interviewees, limited in length, only selected excerpts were taken.
1武汉学生封城下的武汉（图源：谷歌）“看到家乡成为众人指责的对象时，我的难过与无力感”Helen，留学日本，武汉人作为一个在海外留学的武汉人，这次疫情确实对我影响挺大的，主要是心理和人生观的改变吧。
Wuhan Hengcheng Student: Wuhan (pictured here: Google) "Seeing my hometown becoming the target of public criticism, I feel sad and powerless." As a Wuhan native studying abroad, this epidemic has really affected me a lot, mainly the change of mentality and outlook on life.
自从我出生的那一年武汉经历了洪水之后，在我的印象里武汉再也没有遇到过什么大灾大难。
Since the year I was born in Wuhan experienced floods, in my impression Wuhan has never encountered any major disaster.
所以在疫情爆发最初的一周，真的非常痛苦和焦虑，每天睡不着。
So in the first week of the outbreak, it was really very painful and anxious, and I couldn't sleep every day.
我非常担心在武汉的家人和朋友，越是这种情况就越想跟他们在一起，只有跟家人在一起才是最安心的。
I am very worried about my family and friends in Wuhan. The more I want to be with them, the more secure I am with my family.
再就是网上当时也有很多歧视武汉歧视湖北的声音，看到自己从小成长的家乡成为网友指责的对象时，难过和无力感肯定是有的。
On-line there was also a lot of discrimination against Wuhan voices Hubei, see their childhood home to become the target of online criticism, sad and powerless is certainly there.
那段时间毫不夸张地说我真的天天都在哭，各种情绪交杂在一起。
It was no exaggeration to say that I was really crying every day and that all kinds of emotions were mixed together.
这段时间看到一切都在慢慢变得有计划，支援武汉的医护人员和物资也越来越多，这种不安的情绪得到了一定的缓解。
This time saw everything is slowly becoming a plan, support Wuhan medical personnel and supplies are also increasing, this restlessness has been somewhat alleviated.
也开始思考什么是对我来说是最重要的，什么是自己所追求的。
I also began to think about what is most important to me and what I am after.
这次疫情的出现，让我懂得知足常乐，明白再高的学历再多的财富都不如家人和自己身体健康重要。
The emergence of this epidemic, let me know that contentment, no matter how high the wealth of education, no matter how important their family and their health.
再就是知道自己想成为一个能够帮助到别人的人，在能力范围内先从小事做起，在未来的道路上随着自己的能力的提升，给别人带来的帮助也会越来越大的吧。
The other is to know that I want to become a person who can help others, within the scope of their ability to start with small things, in the future as their ability to upgrade, will bring more and more help to others.
最后，我养成写日记的习惯了。
Finally, I got into the habit of keeping a diary.
因为害怕有一天会被时间和琐事冲淡对这一切的记忆，也怕会忘掉自己现在所坚持的东西。
For fear that time and trifles will one day efface all memory of them, and forget what they insist upon now.
“武汉依然是一座美丽的城市”Bryan Bai, 在上海上学的武汉学生，现居武汉我是封城前最后一天回到武汉的，过程中亲眼见证了武汉从封高速公路，到封大桥，再到小区封楼，以前从来没有想过自己也能亲历这样的重大事件。
Wuhan is still a beautiful city "Bryan Bai, a Wuhan student studying in Shanghai, is now living in Wuhan. I returned to Wuhan on the last day before the closure of the city.
我的心情也是从一开始的恐慌，到看到外界评价时的愤怒，再到如今内心不再那么波动，甚至习惯了多少天都不下楼的生活。
My mood ranged from initial panic, to anger when I saw the outside world, to now my heart is no longer so volatile, even used to not go downstairs for many days.
学习方面是有一定的影响的，学校从一开始的推迟开学到后来要上网课，假期变长了，我就可以发展些自己的兴趣。
There is a certain impact on learning, school from the beginning of the delay to the beginning of online classes, the holidays become longer, I can develop some interest.
虽然一开始我对网课有些担忧，但是同时还是感到很庆幸，至少自己还能上学，而且最令我感动的是我们校长还亲自在微信上关心我的生活，真的很暖心。
Although I was worried about the net class at first, I was glad that I was able to go to school at least, and what impressed me most was that our headmaster himself cared about my life on the micro-mail.
举个具体的例子的话，上周我的父母去买菜的时候，我们会在门口看着他们穿好雨衣，鞋套，所有的防护措施都做好了才放心。
For example, when my parents went shopping last week, we watched them at the door with their raincoats, shoelaces, and all the precautions taken.
我从来没有想过这样一种本该是很平常的一件事，竟变得如此庄重，甚至有种壮士出征的感觉。
It never occurred to me that such a thing, which was supposed to be so common, should become so dignified that it even felt like a heroic expedition.
最后，我想说，武汉依然是一座很美丽的城市，希望大家不要害怕武汉人，武汉人已经在尽力做好自己的本分。
Finally, I would like to say that Wuhan is still a very beautiful city, I hope that we do not fear Wuhan people, Wuhan people have been doing their best to do their part.
同时，我也希望大家看待媒体的报道时能够保持一个客观理性的思维。
At the same time, I also hope that we can maintain an objective and rational thinking when we look at the media coverage.
2大学位于湖北（图源：Getty Images）“当时想着，应该很快会控制住吧”匿名，在湖北上学最开始是从12月30日武汉发布的公告得知有27名不明原因肺炎患者。
University in Hubei (Source: Getty Images) "Thought it would be under control soon," Anonymity, Hubei University started with a notice on December 30 from Wuhan that there were 27 patients with unexplained pneumonia.
那段时间基本不敢出门，不敢去人多的地方，对疫情扩散的可能感到非常担心。
At that time, the basic dare not go out, dare not go to places where many people, the spread of the epidemic is very worried.
不过当时还怀抱着“这么严重的事情应该会像先前内蒙出现鼠疫时一样大力控制住吧”的心情，对病毒的了解也几乎为零，相比现在的居家隔离，防控措施还有很多不到位。
But the mood was that "something as serious as the plague should have been under control" and knowledge of the virus was almost nil, leaving much to be desired.
1月5日就回到了家，庆幸自己没被感染。
Returning home on January 5th, I was glad I wasn't infected.
20日左右去做兼职，结果第二天街上就有不少人戴起口罩，工作也被动结束。
Around 20 to do a part-time job, as a result of the next day many people wearing masks in the street, also passive end to work.
学校已经筹备网络授课了，按原定课表开学，算是较好的决策。
The school has prepared the network to teach, according to the original schedule, is a better decision.
只是原先设想了一系列返校后要做的事，全都要推迟甚至取消了。
It was just a series of back-to-school activities that had been envisaged, all of which had to be put off or even cancelled.
“所有‘武汉来的’都被当成病原体了”小木，在湖北上学我是1月7号回到山东老家。
"All 'Wuhan come' are treated as pathogens" small wooden, in Hubei school I returned to Shandong Province on January 7.
回家后大概大年初二还是初三，就有物业找上门了，问我是不是从武汉上学回来的。
After coming home about the second or third day of the New Year, property came to me, asked me whether I came back from Wuhan school.
后来就有社区服务人员打电话来问我一些信息，我拜托她不要把我信息泄露出去，因为有看到同学的信息被泄露之后被骚扰。
Then someone from the community service called me to ask for some information, and I begged her not to divulge my information because she was harassed after she saw the information leaked to her classmates.
她答应了，我后来也没收到什么骚扰信息，她只是嘱咐我在家做好隔离工作。
She said yes, and I didn't get any harassment information later. She just told me to stay home and do the quarantine.
后来可能是物业的人传出去了，说小区里有个武汉的。
Later may be the property of the people spread out, said that there is a district in Wuhan.
小区里有个群，然后就炸了，都在讨论，那个“武汉的”到底是哪个楼，哪个单元。
There was a group in the neighborhood, and then it exploded. It was all about which building and which unit was Wuhan.
传什么的都有。
There are all kinds of rumors.
当然这些人也是太恐慌了，把所有“武汉来的”都当成病原体了。
Of course, these people are too scared, and all "Wuhan" as a pathogen.
实际上那个时候我都已经过隔离期好久了。
Actually, I've been in quarantine for a long time.
我爸很担心我，他都不敢让我一个人去买菜，都是他下了班才带我去买菜。
My father was worried about me. He didn't dare let me go shopping alone. He took me shopping after work.
3大学位于其他地区东方明珠上写着“武汉加油”，上海陆家嘴（图源：法新社）“启蒙来临的契机，可能就在此刻”Leon Ding，在上海上学的浙江学生除了日常生活方面，当然也有更深一些的影响。
"Wuhan refueling" is written on the Oriental Pearl River in other areas, and "The Enlightenment may be just around the corner." Leon Ding, a Zhejiang student studying in Shanghai, has, of course, a deeper influence on his daily life.
最明显的应该是，自疫情被曝光以来，我们已经读到看到无数，经历太多焦虑、愤怒、沉默、深思的时刻了。
Most obviously, since the outbreak came to light, we have read countless moments of anxiety, anger, silence, and reflection.
一些平日隐于海面下的顽疾被针尖挑起，不啻对每一位有良知有血性的青年的拷问，拷问这一切的症结在何处，拷问我们究竟能做些什么；而这些拷问最终遗留下的是深切而长久的无力感与撕裂感，以及一些注定要面对要缠斗的永恒课题。
Some of the chronic diseases that normally lie beneath the sea are provoked by needles, as if torturing every young person of conscience, asking what the crux of all this is and what we can do; and these tortures leave a deep and enduring sense of powerlessness and tearing, as well as eternal issues doomed to struggle.
每一代青年都需要一根从井底向上爬的绳，一根点燃启蒙的导火索，而它已经垂下来了。
Every generation of young people needs a rope to climb from the bottom of a well, a fuse that ignites enlightenment, and it has come down.
“短暂、具有选择性的集体记忆”卓也，在上海上学意识到疫情是1月9号，而真正感受到“这与我关系如此紧密”是1月20号，因为卫健委确认了上海的首例输入性新型冠状病毒感染。
"Short-lived, selective collective memory," Zhuo also, who attended school in Shanghai, realized that the outbreak was January 9 and felt "so close to me" on January 20th, as the health committee confirmed Shanghai's first imported coronavirus infection.
因为我学社会学，前段时间正好在看有关于集体记忆的书，这件事比较能够印证其中一些结论，比如能感觉到集体记忆是非常短暂的，而且很有选择性。
Because I was studying sociology, I was reading a book about collective memory some time ago, and this was a good proof of some of these conclusions, such as the feeling that collective memory is very short-lived and selective.
我也挺感兴趣人们的价值观是如何通过“朋友圈”这个非常私人化的社交网络被塑造的。
I'm also interested in how people's values are shaped through a very personal social network of "circle of friends."
每个人朋友圈能看到的东西不一样，比如我爸妈的朋友圈，我持有不同观点的同学在朋友圈看到的内容差异都很大。
Everyone can see different things in a circle of friends, such as my parents' circle of friends, and what I see in a circle of friends is very different.
其实在家里能做的事情还是很有限的，加上正值申请季，很多时候对于前途的忧虑和眼前的疫情掺杂在一起，容易酿造成一些负面情绪。
In fact, what can be done at home is still very limited, coupled with the application season, many times the fear of the future and the immediate epidemic mixed, easy to brew some negative emotions.
但总的来说我是个很乐观的人。
But overall I am a very optimistic person.
我不是特别支持——无论是从内容还是从表达上——以过度情绪化的方式去阐释观点，这也是很多自媒体暴露出来的问题。
I am not particularly supportive - either in content or in expression - in interpreting views in an overly emotional way, which is a problem that has been exposed since the media.
4台湾2月5日晚，台北101外墙打出“第一线防护伙伴”、“医护检疫人员”、“台湾加油”、“也请保护自己”等字样，对防疫人员表达感谢。
4. On the night of February 5, Taipei 101 posted the words "first-line protection partner," "medical and quarantine personnel," "Taiwan refueling," "also protect yourself," and so on.
（图源：台湾联合新闻网）“学业，精神，经济上的三重打击”Ivy，在台上学的陆生学业上，对建筑系学生（或者设计学院学生）来说，很多课程与项目通过线上课程实现难度较大。
(Source: Taiwan Uniteds.com) "The triple blow to academic, spiritual, and financial" Ivy, who studied onstage in the terrestrial arena, has made many courses and projects difficult for architecture students (or design college students) to achieve through online courses.
台湾的设计系大部分没有一学期修两个不同年级的设计课这一说法，只能参加暑修或者是延毕一年重修。
Most of Taiwan's design departments don't have two design classes in one semester, so they can only take summer school or take a year off.
毕业生影响更大，毕业后的安排可能会无法如期进行。
Graduates are more influential and post-graduation arrangements may not be possible.
每个学科/学校影响不同，具体看老师们的配合程度。
Each subject / school has different influences, depending on the degree of cooperation of the teachers.
精神上，台湾迟迟不下决定，政策变来变去，导致陆生们从1.26至今的精神和心理上需接受严重的考验。
Spiritually, Taiwan's procrastination in its decision-making and its shifting policies have left the mainland students exposed to severe mental and psychological tests from 1.26 to the present day.
每天的政策都在变，打开通知几乎都是坏消息为主。
Everyday policies are changing, and opening up notices is almost always bad news.
陆生联署发声后，由于在台湾陆生百分之三百处于弱势群体（我们在台的保障应该是所有在台生活的人里最低的），又遭受到了舆论的攻击。
After Lu became a co-sponsor, he was attacked by public opinion because 300 percent of the land-born people in Taiwan were in a vulnerable position (our protection in Taiwan should be the lowest of all those living in Taiwan).
虽然有一部分老师和同学在私底下是对我们蛮照顾的，但从整个社会环境来说，陆生的身份仍然很微妙。
Although some of our teachers and classmates take good care of us in private, from the overall social environment, the identity of the land is still very delicate.
经济上，不确定因素造成行程迟迟无法确定，由于是境外航空或者种种原因，机票很多都退不了。
Economically, uncertain factors cause delays in determining itinerary, as it is an overseas airline or for a variety of reasons, many tickets can not be returned.
比如我和我另外两个朋友买的两张机票目前都是直接作废，无法退票。
For example, my other two friends and I bought two tickets are now directly invalid, can not be refunded.
除此之外还有各种生活杂费：房租、电话月租、保险费即使用不到也还得继续交，诸如此类的生活杂费的亏损无处伸冤。
In addition, there are all kinds of miscellaneous expenses: rent, monthly telephone rental, insurance premiums are not used or have to continue to pay, such as the loss of miscellaneous expenses no way to redress.
如果不幸被延毕，那么除了学费等，也还得算上各种生活开支。
If I am unlucky enough to graduate, I have to take into account all kinds of living expenses in addition to tuition fees.
“期待已久的交换，却因疫情而被取消”Bonnie，台湾本地学生由於近年來台灣各大學的交換學生管道多元且蓬勃發展，學生們非常踴躍地出國交換，兩岸學生之間的交流計畫也是越發豐富。
"The long-awaited exchange has been cancelled because of the outbreak." Bonnie, a native Taiwanese student, has seen a lot of changes in the student pipeline as a result of the more diversified and dynamic exchange channels among Taiwanese universities in recent years.
然而這次的疫情爆發，阻礙了許多國際交流的項目，我身邊就有很多例子。
However, this outbreak has blocked many items of international exchange, and I have many examples of it.
比如申請去北京大學、上海復旦大學的朋友們，他們的交換計畫全數被取消，這對於他們原先的求學及實習規劃、未來的履歷呈現以及人生經歷的累積都形成頗大的負面影響。
For example, by inviting students to Beijing University and friends in Shanghai's Easter University, their plans to change course have been cancelled. This has significantly impacted their original learning and practical work, future job creation and progressive reading skills.
另外也有前往新加坡國立大學交換的朋友，因當地的疫情擴散，全數課程改為線上授課、旅遊區域受限，因而影響交換生活的體驗。
Other friends who have gone to Singapore's state universities to exchange more experience have changed their lives because of the spread of local diseases in most of the programs.
另有在德國、美國唸書的朋友們，紛紛表示因此次疫情而遭受種族歧視的異樣眼光。
There were also friends read in Germany and the United States, who, according to their disputes, had different views of racial discrimination arising from the outbreak.
5香港（图源：美联社）“学业就业各方面受到影响”KK，香港本地学生因為我是大四的學生，這學期是我最後一個學期。
5 Hong Kong (Source: Associated Press) "All Aspects of Academic Employment are Affected." KK, a local student, is my last year as a senior student in Hong Kong.
我需要修滿學分以及提高我GPA。
I need to be full of grades and improve my GPA.
可是肺炎爆發開學的日期延後了，學習進度也被拖慢，後來改成網上教學，可是學習的環境並無助提升我的學習成果，也無法跟上學習的進度，這是目前對我生活產生最大影響的事。
But if you delay the date of pneumonic development, if you work slowly, you use it slowly. However, the environment of study does not help me to improve my work, and I can't keep up with it. This is the furthest thing from living my life.
睡之，在港内地生在港内地生遇到的问题因人而异。
The problems encountered by Mainland students born in Hong Kong vary from person to person.
我春节的时候没有回去，但我身边有很多人春节的时候回到了内地，但现在不便回校，只能网上学习。
I did not go back when the Spring Festival, but I have a lot of people around the mainland when the Spring Festival, but now it is not convenient to go back to school, can only learn online.
他们的东西也在学校，但不能回来拿。
Their stuff is at school, too, but they can't come back for it.
回到香港需要隔离14天，并且学校强烈不建议学生回来。
Returning to Hong Kong requires 14 days of isolation, and the school strongly discourages students from returning.
柚子，在港内地生对学习和就业方面的影响比较大，尤其是对于像我这样的毕业生。
Grapefruit, being born in the Mainland has a greater impact on study and employment, especially for graduates like me.
本来就是最后一个学年，有一些Final year project（期末项目）本来应该是要多跟老师沟通的，但是因为没办法上学就只能独立完成了。
It was supposed to be the last school year, with some Final Year projects that were supposed to communicate more with the teachers, but couldn't go to school without being able to do so alone.
疫情也导致了很多企业推迟或者减少他们的春招岗位，加上去年的反送中事件，对就业更是雪上加霜了。
The epidemic has also caused companies to delay or cut jobs, which has been compounded by last year's counter-attacks.
本来我是准备毕业直接就业，现在也正在考虑申请研究生项目。
I was going to graduate for direct employment, and now I'm considering applying for a graduate program.
6日本（图源：BBC News）“担心因为脸长得像中国人而受到歧视”H. I，日本学生因为我打工的店经常会有中国游客来，所以店主鼓励要与客人交流的员工戴上口罩。
6 Japan (Source: BBC News) "Worried about being discriminated against because they have Chinese faces." H. I. Japanese students are encouraged to wear masks because Chinese tourists often come to the shops where I work.
本来春假去南亚旅行的机票是要在中国转机的，但现在我改签成在马来西亚转机的机票了。
I was supposed to fly to South Asia during the Spring Break in China, but now I am signing up for a connecting flight in Malaysia.
我计划下学期要去北欧做实习，但我最近非常担心会由于这个事情让我受到歧视，或者说会影响我的实习申请结果。
I plan to do an internship in northern Europe next semester, but recently I am very worried that I will be discriminated against or my internship result will be affected.
我还听男朋友说，他的好朋友（日本人）在东欧被当地小孩直接叫成“病毒”！此外，我的母亲非常担心我因为脸长得像中国人，而在酒店的时候被拒绝入住。
I also heard from my boyfriend that his best friend (Japanese) had been called a "virus" directly by local kids in Eastern Europe, and my mother was very worried that I would be refused admission to the hotel because I had a Chinese face.
（原文日文，中文由采访者翻译）7美国一位妇女带着口罩走过纽约证券交易所（图源：南华早报）"很担心我在中国的亲戚和朋友"Allison，美国学生我有很多朋友和亲戚在中国，所以这段时间我很担心他们的健康问题。
An American woman walks past the New York Stock Exchange wearing a mask; I'm worried about my relatives and friends in China; Allison, an American student; I have many friends and relatives in China, so I'm worried about their health these days.
我也听说我的一些朋友从中国回来时，在美国机场的安检处被问了很多问题。
I also heard that some of my friends were asked a lot of questions at security checkpoints at American airports when they returned from China.
我有很多朋友本来计划要在寒假或是暑假前往中国参加志愿服务，教课，或是做学术研究等活动，但是现在他们都不得不取消去中国的计划，这些是疫情对我个人最大的影响。
Many of my friends had planned to volunteer, teach or do academic work in China during the winter and summer holidays, but now they have to cancel their plans to go to China, which is the biggest personal impact of the epidemic.
（原文英文，中文由采访者翻译）除上述采访对象以外，笔者还采访了两位在中国上学的国际留学生，了解他们的经历与看法。
In addition to the above-mentioned interviewees, the author also interviewed two international students studying in China to learn about their experiences and views.
其中一位选择留在中国，另一位本计划在中国度过寒假，但在疫情爆发后回到了家乡。
One of them chose to stay in China and the other planned to spend the winter holidays in China, but returned home after the outbreak.
（以下原文均为英文，中文由采访者翻译）“我在这里可以尽可能地学习中文”Kathy，在中国上学的美国留学生，现居北京天安门城楼前的武警战士带着口罩执勤（图源：谷歌）之所以决定留在中国，我认为学业是最重要的考虑因素。
"I can learn Chinese as much as I can here." Kathy, an American student studying in China, now lives in front of the Tiananmen Square Tower in Beijing on duty wearing a mask.
虽然我能在纽约工作和实习，也能和家人住在一起，但我不知道我能不能在学业上有所收获。
Although I can work and practice in New York and live with my family, I don't know if I can achieve anything academically.
我在中国更能够自律，因为这里分散我注意力的事情比较少，有更多的时间去做我想做的事情。
I am more self-disciplined in China because I have less distraction and more time to do what I want to do.
在中国学习对我来说已经足够了，我在这里充分利用自己是华裔美国人的优势，尽可能多地学习汉语。
It is enough for me to study in China, where I make full use of my advantage as a Chinese-American and learn as much Chinese as possible.
就冠状病毒而言，作为一个外国人并不会对我的生活产生很大的影响，因为我在中国。
As far as coronavirus is concerned, being a foreigner will not have a great impact on my life as I am in China.
然而，当病毒最初开始蔓延时，美国民众搞出了一些有争议的玩笑/表情包/视频，抨击亚洲人吃野生动物和并说他们“肮脏”。
However, when the virus first began to spread, Americans made some controversial jokes / expression _ rs about Asians eating wild animals and saying they were "dirty."
自病毒传播以来，亚洲人一直受到口头和人身的攻击。
Asians have been verbally and physically attacked since the virus spread.
看到人们在处理这个问题的方式上的差异是很有趣的。
It is interesting to see the differences in the way people deal with this problem.
在中国的社交媒体上，我看到一些视频/图片，人们在说“武汉加油”，并且认识到医生和护士的辛勤工作和勇敢。
On social media in China, I see videos / pictures of people saying, "Come on, Wuhan," and recognizing the hard work and bravery of doctors and nurses.
非洲大陆最大的航空公司暂停来往中国的航班（图源：Business Insider）“回家以来人们总会问我关于疫情的问题”Amen Tesfaye，在中国上学的埃塞俄比亚留学生（本计划在中国度过寒假，但在疫情爆发后回到了家乡。
"People have been asking me questions about the epidemic since coming home," says Amen Tesfaye, an Ethiopian student studying in China (who spent winter holidays in China but returned home after the outbreak).
）疫情在一定程度上影响了我的大学生活。
) The epidemic has affected my college life to some extent.
尽管我仍然可以在网上上课，但这并不会像在学校上学那么方便。
I can still take classes online, but it's not as convenient as going to school.
网上学习缺乏大学的基本精神，无法充分利用学校提供的资源。
E-learning lacks the basic spirit of a university and fails to take full advantage of the resources it offers.
疫情的另一个影响是，人们利用这一不幸事件来抨击我去中国的决定。
Another effect of the outbreak was that people used this unfortunate incident to attack my decision to go to China.
自从我回到家以来，我熟悉的人总会问我一个很基本的问题。
Since I got home, people I know have always asked me a very basic question.
人们本能地问我是在冠状病毒爆发之前还是之后离开中国，而没有人问我我大学生活过得如何。
People instinctively asked me whether I left China before or after the coronavirus outbreak, and no one asked me how my college life had been.
他们的故事仍未结束，我们的故事也仍在继续。
Their story is not over yet, and our story continues.
也欢迎此刻看到此处的你，在留言区和我们分享你的记忆。
Also welcome to see you here now and share your memories with us in the comments section.
在下篇稿件，我们将把视角从个人经验扩展至更普适的社会事件，聚焦受访者眼中此次疫情中的媒体角色，以及对时下社会事件的不同见解。
In the next article, we will expand our perspective from personal experience to more pervasive social events, focusing on the role of the media in the epidemic as perceived by interviewees, as well as different perspectives on current social events.
结语17年前的SARS之疫，对于一些人来说，或许是尘封已久的旧疮，而对于大学生群体来说，可能意味着年幼时零星模糊的印象。
Conclusion The SARS epidemic 17 years ago may have been a dusty old sore for some people, but for the college community it may mean a vague impression of childhood.
如果说那是一段没有实感的往事，那么今日正共同经历的疫情，则让我们更切实地感受到自己身处历史洪流的中心。
If that is a story without a sense of reality, then the epidemic we are experiencing together today gives us a more tangible sense of being at the centre of the torrent of history.
我们不再是历史的聆听者，而是时代的见证者与记录者。
We are no longer the listeners of history, but the witnesses and records of the times.
正如一位受访者所言，我们“害怕有一天会被时间冲淡对这一切的记忆，也怕会忘掉现在所坚持的东西”。
As one interviewee put it, we are "afraid that one day we will be diluted by time and forget what we insist on now."
我们深知记忆的短暂性与脆弱性，但我们仍选择记录下此刻的心境，为前方的曙光增添一份希望。
We are well aware of the short-term and fragile nature of memory, but we have chosen to record the state of mind of the moment to add a ray of hope to the dawn ahead.
采访 & 统稿 | 陈芊伊 范思诚 张欣渝图 | 来自网络编辑 | 谷苏莹围炉 (ID：weilu_flame)文中图片未经同意，请勿用作其他用途欢迎您在文章下方评论，与围炉团队和其他读者交流讨论欲了解围炉、阅读更多文章，请关注本公众号并在公众号页面点击相应菜单栏目。
Hsien-hsien Chen and Hsin-hsien Chang & amp; Hsin-hsien Chen & amp; Hsien-hsien & # 45; & # 45; Do not use pictures from Web editors and employees. Do not use them for other purposes.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
围炉特稿 | 全球视野下的疫情（上）。
Epidemic situation in a global perspective (top).
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "时事政治";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "围炉";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "围炉特稿 | 全球视野下的疫情（上）";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in a global perspective.
var msg_desc = "7个地区，24位大学生，疫情期间的每个人像是一座座孤岛，却又以各种形式相互关联。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 24 university students in seven regions, each of whom was like an island during the outbreak but was nonetheless interconnected in various ways.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="围炉";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
