困局还是破局：听障学生与网络课堂。
Trouble or Destroy: Students with Hearing Impairment and Online Classrooms.
子穆。
Zi Mu.
残障之声                      。
Disability Voice.
残障之声。
Disability Voice.
残障有不一样的阴霾但是有一样的阳光，有不一样的泪水但是有一样的笑脸，有不一样的经历但是有一样的权利，让我们在这里一起谈权利，一起发声，一起happy，残障权利行动者欢迎你的加入！。
Disability has different haze but the same sunshine, different tears but the same smiling face, different experiences but the same rights, let us talk about rights together, speak together, together, disability rights actors welcome you to join us!
2020年初，新冠肺炎疫情席卷全国。
Early in 2020, the new crown pneumonia epidemic swept the country.
为了阻断疫情向校园蔓延，确保师生生命安全和身体健康，教育部明确2020年春季延期开学，并且提出停课不停学：不能面对面课堂上课，我们就搭建云课堂，让孩子们在家也能开展学习。
In order to halt the spread of the epidemic to schools and to ensure the lives and health of teachers and students, the Ministry of Education has postponed the start of the school year in the spring of 2020 and has proposed that classes be suspended: instead of face-to-face classes, we will build cloud classrooms where children can learn at home.
目前，各地已有学校陆续开始行动，老师通过开设网络直播给学生上课。
At present, schools around the world have started operations, teachers through the opening of live webcasts to students.
云课堂究竟是啥？前文提到的“云课堂”，是一类面向教育和培训行业的互联网服务。
What is Cloud Classroom? Cloud Classroom is an Internet service for the education and training industry.
使用机构无需购买任何硬件和软件，仅仅通过租用网络互动直播技术服务的方式，就可以实现面向全国的高质量的网络同步（直播课程）和异步教学（录播课程）及培训，是一种真正完全突破时空限制的全方位互动性学习模式。
Without purchasing any hardware and software, user organizations can achieve high-quality web synchronization (live courses) and asynchronous teaching (video courses) and training across the country by renting interactive webcasting services alone, a fully interactive learning model that truly breaks through the limitations of time and space.
网络授课方式显著降低了讲课听课的门槛，多种学习软件、学习视频、网络课堂APP层出不穷，让普通人随时随地都可以在线学习，获取前沿知识。
Web-based teaching methods significantly reduced the threshold of lectures, a variety of learning software, learning video, network classes APP endless, so that ordinary people can learn online, access to cutting-edge knowledge.
我们需要带字幕的“云课堂”最受听障人士欢迎的，还是配有字幕的网络课程。
Cloud classes with subtitles are the most popular with the hearing impaired, or with subtitles.
无论是电视、电话，还是视频、音频，传输的声音信号都有一定的变形，这让听障人士，特别是中重度听障者，辨听电子声多少有一定的困难。
Whether it is television, telephone, video, audio, transmission of sound signals have a certain degree of distortion, which makes it more or less difficult for persons with hearing impairment, especially those with moderate or severe hearing impairment, to distinguish between electronic sounds.
而带有字幕的视频，能够帮助他们实时对接声音与画面。
Video with subtitles can help them dock sounds and pictures in real time.
某网上课堂的字幕，在右侧显示，前后文都有，是听障学生公认的最佳样板某网上课堂的字幕，在下方显示，是普遍的字幕形式某网上课堂上的字幕，在下方显示，右侧是教材素材某在线视频的字幕，下方黑底白字，比较突出网络课程包括了录播和直播两种形式，录播课一般会配有字幕，但还没有完全普及，大部分网站录播视频都是没有字幕的。
Subtitling in a class on-line is recognized as the best model for students with hearing impairment. Subtitling in an online class is generally accepted by students with hearing impairment. Subtitles are available on the right side of an online class.
直播课程，基本没有字幕，这个是最急需解决的难题。
There are no subtitles for the live course, which is the most urgent problem to be solved.
在校学生的“云课堂”体验佳佳，13岁，中度听损，双侧助听器，七年级收到学校要求网络上课的通知，佳佳有点担心：平时在课堂上，我可以问老师、问同学、看口型，用好多方式补上听不清的地方。
In class, I can ask my teacher, ask my classmate, look at my mouth, and fill in the missing words in many ways. I can ask a teacher, ask a classmate, look at the class and fill in the blanks in many ways.
网络课堂的话，我可能听不清的同时还看不了口型，还没法问老师同学，该怎么办啊？和别的同学不一样，佳佳宁愿多花钱请家教面授，也很少报网课。
If I can't hear you clearly, I can't see the mouth, and I can't ask my classmates what to do. Unlike other students, Jia Jia prefers to pay more for face-to-face tutoring and seldom offers online lessons.
偶尔上网学习时，也更愿意看带有字幕的教学课程。
Occasionally online learning, but also preferred to see with subtitles of the teaching curriculum.
宁宁，15岁，极重度听损，双侧耳蜗，九年级宁宁所就读的学校已经开始了四门主课的网络授课，分别是英语、物理、语文、数学。
Ningning, 15, has severe hearing loss, bilateral cochlea, nine-year-old Ningning's school has started four main courses of online instruction: English, Physics, Chinese and Mathematics.
由于要面临中考，老师讲课也比较赶进度，语速也比较快。
As a result of facing the exam, the teacher is also more up-to-date, faster to speak.
宁宁的基础知识不是很扎实，听漏的知识点特别多。
Ningning's basic knowledge is not very solid, listening to the leakage of knowledge is particularly much.
每次上课，宁宁对老师讲的话都似懂非懂，只有在老师把图画出来或者用文字打出来的时候，他才能赶紧抄笔记。
Each class, Ning Ning to the teacher all seems to understand, only when the teacher out of the picture or typed out the words, he can quickly copy notes.
瑶瑶，16岁，重度听损，一侧助听器一侧耳蜗，高中一年级瑶瑶极度依赖课件，但是有些课件做得特别简单匆促，只能自己课后加码自学。
Yao Yao, 16, suffered from severe hearing loss, cochlea on one side of the hearing aid, and Yao Yao, the first year of high school, was extremely dependent on courseware.
另外一个问题是，她的英语听说基础本来就弱，听老师的双语授课，就更吃力了。
Another problem is, her English listening and speaking foundation is already weak, listening to the bilingual teachers, it is even more difficult.
家长试着用一些语音转文字的软件帮助孩子“看”懂老师的话，结果发现孩子只能目不转睛地盯着手机上的语音转文字屏幕，老师的课件都来不及看。
Parents try to use voice-to-text programs to help their children "see" what the teacher is saying, only to find that the child can only stare at the text-transfer screen on the phone before the teacher can see the text.
她的听常同学就可以做到边听讲解边看课件。
Her regular classmates can do it while listening to the lecture.
所以，同样的课，佳佳比她的同学更累。
So, Jia Jia is more tired than her classmates in the same class.
小光，20岁，极重度听损，一侧助听器一侧耳蜗，本科二年级小光的盲听能力一般（盲听指不用读唇或看画面、光听声音），读唇是他辨听能力的重要部分。
Xiaoguang, 20 years old, extremely severe hearing loss, cochlea on one side of the hearing aid, small light in the second year of undergraduate studies have moderate hearing ability (blind hearing refers to not reading lips or seeing pictures, hearing sound), and lip reading is an important part of his ability to recognize speech.
而且小光这学期选的还是自己凭着爱好选的校级通识课，课上就没有熟悉的同学，他不得不孤军奋战。
And Xiaoguang this semester or their own choice of school-level general education classes, there are no familiar classmates, he had to work alone.
他所在的大学指定用课堂直播的方式来上课，小光听了课，才发现有这么多让人崩溃的BUG：直播网课里没有任何字幕，有的老师并不会把自己的视频窗口放在桌面上，小光只能盲听。
After listening to the lecture, Xiao Guang noticed that there were so many collapsing BUG: There were no subtitles. Some teachers did not put their own video windows on the desktop.
有的老师虽然放了自己的视频窗口，但是有网络延迟，导致声音和唇形不同步，他看口型的能力几乎用不上了。
Some teachers put their own video windows, but there are network delays, resulting in voice and lip sync, his ability to see the mouth is almost no longer needed.
授课老师的口音各种各样，讲课环境有干扰，导致部分老师的讲课声音听起来好像隔了一层雾。
The various accents of the lecturers and the interference in the classroom environment made some of the teachers' lectures sound misty.
小光虽然跟老师反馈了这个问题，却有同学讽刺他自己不戴耳麦，简直没事找事。
Although Xiaoguang and the teacher feedback this problem, but some students satirize himself do not wear earmuff, almost nothing.
小光只能依赖于屏幕上播放的课件上的文字内容，或者是同学在弹幕中提到的一些重点。
Small light can only rely on the screen played on the text on the text, or students in the bullet mentioned in some of the key points.
但多数时候，老师能够一张片子讲十几二十分钟，弹幕也都是无关紧要的评论，小光也没有办法从有限的文字里学习更多的内容。
But most of the time, the teacher can tell a film for ten or twenty minutes, the canister is also irrelevant comments, and Xiaoguang can not learn more from the limited text.
当别的同学不停地刷“老师666”的评论时，小光只能反反复复地看课件、讲义和阅读材料，感到在知识的汪洋大海中，更迷茫了。
When other students keep brushing "teacher 666" comments, Xiaoguang can only read courseware, handout and reading materials over and over again, feeling even more confused in the sea of knowledge.
小慧，23岁，极重度听损，一侧助听器一侧耳蜗，研究生一年级小慧的专业需要补充学习一些校外机构研发的编程课程，很多编程网站的授课都没有字幕。
Xiaohui, 23, has severe hearing loss, cochlea on one side of the hearing aid, and minor Hui's major in the first year of graduate studies needs to take some programming courses developed outside the school. Many programming sites have no subtitles.
这点事难不住小慧，她使用了各种技术手段，化身山寨版字幕组，来解决自己的困扰：比如手机开设转文字功能，同时电脑观看视频；或者用iPad转文字，电脑观看视频。
She used a variety of techniques to solve her problems, such as using a text-switching device and watching videos on the computer, or converting text from the iPad to a computer to watch video.
但她的尝试也受到限制：人的视野宽度有限，无法同时兼顾文字和课程，一堂课下来听着累，看着也累。
But her attempts were limited: people's horizons were limited, they could not combine words and lessons at the same time, and she was tired listening and looking tired after a class.
带有听力无障碍功能软件的手机，在音频视频转文字时，手机的麦克风不能被占用，一旦占用，这个功能就不能使用了，非常妨碍沉浸式听课。
With hearing-free software, the phone's microphone can not be occupied when audio-video text transfer, once occupied, this function can not be used, very impeded immersion classes.
部分学生会采取手机语音转文字+电脑播放视频的模式，但体验不好以上都是佩戴了助听辅具，并且经过康复后在普校接受融合教育的学生。
Some students adopt the mode of voice-to-text-to-text and computer-based video, but the experience is not good for students who wear assistive devices, and after rehabilitation in the universal school integrated education.
他们有的上中学，有的上大学，所面对的境遇代表了一部分人的心声。
Some of them go to middle school, some go to university, the situation they face represents the voice of some people.
面对网络课堂，他们的遭遇无可言说，也令人心酸。
Facing the network classroom, their experience is inexplicable, is also sad.
何谓字幕？字幕将视频上的言语（有时候还包括背景音）逐字用文字展示，也就是我们所说的“所听即所见”。
Subtitles The subtitles present the language (and sometimes the background sound) on the video word for word, what we call "what you hear and see."
字幕是怎么做出来的？一些志愿者或者官方工作人员，在后期制作成字幕文件，上传到视频上，校正时间轴，实现图像与字幕的同步。
Subtitle How are subtitles made? Some volunteers or official staff, after the production of subtitles, upload to the video, correct the time axis, and achieve the synchronization of the image and subtitles.
但如果没有可以开放的端口，制作字幕就要复杂得多，难度也要大得多。
But without open ports, subtitles are much more complex and difficult.
逐字字幕是声音世界里的坡道听力不同的观众，对字幕详细程度的需求差别很大。
Verbatim subtitling is the acoustic world of the ramp different audience, subtitles detailed degree of the need for great differences.
听力没有损失的观众，只要画面上有幻灯片或者关键词，他们已经能轻松地听明白全部细节。
Audiences who have no loss of hearing can easily hear all the details as long as there are slides or keywords on the screen.
对有听力损失的观众来说，视频和直播中所有的言语信息要逐字展示，与画面同步，才是一个完整的、可以理解的信息结构。
For the audience with hearing loss, all the speech information in the video and the live broadcast should be displayed word by word, synchronizing with the picture, is a complete and understandable information structure.
对于有更严重的听力损失的观众来说，有时还需要提示背景环境音，使看不见的声音能够被“看”到：比如日本的一些信息无障碍电影中，甚至汽车鸣笛的背景音都要通过文字显现。
For viewers with more severe hearing loss, it is sometimes necessary to prompt background sounds so that invisible sounds can be "seen": in some Japanese information-free films, for example, even background sounds of car horns are displayed in words.
打个比方，肢体齐全的步行者，无论是多陡峭的台阶，都能轻松拾阶而上；对于使用义肢和拐杖的步行者，还有腿脚不太灵活的老年人，台阶就要更低矮平缓一些；对于轮椅用户，在爬楼轮椅普及之前，他们需要的是斜坡而不是各种台阶。
For example, a full-bodied walker, no matter how steep the steps, can easily pick up the steps. For pedestrians who use artificial limbs and crutches, as well as older people with less flexible legs, the steps are lower and smoother. For wheelchair users, ramps rather than steps are needed before wheelchair access can be achieved.
而斜坡又可以帮助推着轮椅陪父母散步的成年子女、推着婴儿车的父母、拉着沉重的行李箱的旅客、要把一大堆工具送进公司的行政人员……斜坡似乎只帮助了肢障者，斜坡能帮助的又远远不止肢障者。
Slopes, in turn, can help adult children walking with their parents in wheelchairs, parents pushing prams, passengers in heavy suitcases, executives who want to send a large number of tools into the company... Slopes seem to only help people with limb disabilities, and slopes that help far more than the physically handicapped.
可见，言语信息的逐字字幕（也是我们最常见到的那种影视剧中的字幕）并不是所谓的“浪费公共资源照顾一小撮听障者”或者“听障者特权”，它实际上是通用无障碍设施的一部分，可以覆盖到最多人群的需要，和建筑物门口的无障碍斜坡性质是一样的，它是声音世界里的坡道。
Verbatim subtitling of speech messages (and subtitles in movies and TV dramas of the sort that we see most often) is not the so-called "waste of public resources to care for a handful of people with hearing impairment" or "privilege for the hearing impaired," which is actually part of universal accessibility, covering as many people as possible, and is a ramp in the sound world.
我们需要什么样的字幕？对于听障学生来说，“云课堂”下的信息无障碍需求，主要体现在搭配字幕。
What kind of subtitles do we need? For students with hearing impairment, the need for information accessibility under Cloud Classroom is mainly reflected in the matching of subtitles.
网络直播教学的字幕制作，应该满足以下几个原则：一、制作尽量自动化，不需要额外雇用翻译（速录师）来同步转录，或者要求亲戚朋友长时间做兼职的同声传译。
Subtitling for webcasting should meet the following principles: (1) Production should be automated as far as possible, without the need for additional translators (stenographers) to synchronize transcriptions or requiring relatives and friends to work part-time simultaneous interpretation for long periods of time.
二、确保声音、画面、课件、字幕信息同步。
Make sure the sound, picture, courseware and captioning information synchronize.
三、可反复回放。
III. Repeatable playback.
四、位置最好在屏幕下方或者右方，并带有延时交替性（类似卡拉OK那样，后一句话出现时，前一句话不要马上消失，逐句顶替）。
It is better to be at the bottom or right of the screen, with alternation of time delay (similar to karaoke, when the latter sentence appears, do not disappear immediately, replace sentence by sentence).
一些老师讲课语速较快，听障学生低头记笔记的时候，注意力难以一心二用，很容易错过老师没有强调的重点。
Some teachers speak faster and students with hearing impairment take notes with their heads down. It is difficult to concentrate on one thing and miss out on important points that the teacher does not emphasize.
五、上手简单快捷，对老师和学生双方来说，学习成本都很低。
Fifth, easy and fast access, for both teachers and students, learning costs are very low.
六、不容易引起教学内容方面的知识产权争议，授课者也更愿意配合。
VI. It is not easy to cause intellectual property disputes about the content of teaching, and the lecturers are more willing to cooperate.
CC字幕和FM调频助听系统某国外网站上在线课堂上的CC字幕有相当一部分视频网站，比如国外的YouTube，国内的哔哩哔哩（B站），都带有可关闭字幕（CC字幕）。
CC subtitles and FM FM hearing aids CC subtitles in an online class on a foreign website include a significant number of video sites, such as YouTube abroad and serge miles (station B) in the country, with closed captions (CC subtitles).
我们希望未来能开发出类似浏览器插件的形式，需要的时候就能应用。
We hope to be able to develop similar browser plug-ins in the future and use them when needed.
像微信上语音留言可以自带语音转文字的功能，需要的人打开即有，不需要的人也不觉得干扰。
Voice messages like micromail can bring their own voice-to-text functions, need to be opened immediately, do not need people feel disturbed.
B站上的CC字幕一些康复较好，言语辨识力稍强的听障者也非常需要FM调频助听系统。
CC subtitles on Station B Some people with better convalescence and slightly better speech recognition also need FM FM hearing aid system very much.
这也是一种辅听工具，它可以过滤聆听环境中的干扰噪音，将言语信号声无缝传输到耳蜗或助听器，需要蓝牙或音频线连接。
It is also a listening aid that filters the noise of interference in the listening environment and seamlessly transmits speech signals to the cochlea or hearing aid, requiring a Bluetooth or audio connection.
FM系统可以将声音的损耗降到最低，配合字幕，眼看耳听，双管齐下，可以获得多渠道立体式的语言信息。
FM system can minimize the loss of sound, with subtitles, eyes and ears, two-pronged, access to multi-channel stereo language information.
FM调频助听系统，此图片仅为举例，不代表本站意见FM调频助听系统也有局限性，了解它、接受它的人很少，市场也非常狭窄，更不容易进入政府补助辅具名单，自费购买则价格高昂，甚至在我国的一线城市都不太普及，所以使用者不太常见，有待听障者自己主动尝试、多加倡导，发挥多种辅具和无障碍环境联动的效果。
FM FM hearing aid system, the picture is just an example of the limitations of FM FM hearing aid system, understand it, accept it very few people, the market is very narrow, buy-out-of-pocket prices are not very popular even in China's first cities, so users are less common, waiting for the hearing impaired to make their own initiative, advocacy, multi-aids and accessibility.
给听障学生和家长的小建议1.上课前尽快、积极联系任课老师，说明自己的听力基础和听电子音的能力，与老师沟通，帮助他测试微软PPT 同步字幕插件等技术。
Talk to your teacher about your listening skills and your ability to listen to an electronic voice. Communicate with your teacher and help him test Microsoft's PPT subtitle plug-in.
2.试试各类语音转文字软件，包括讯飞听见、音书、乐往、慧译以及其他国外语音转文字的技术（双语或英语授课有用）。
2. Try various types of voice-to-text software, including voice-to-speech, audio-visual, playback, comet and other foreign voice-to-words techniques (useful for bilingual or English language instruction).
3.如果这次网课只需要坐着听，不需要口头互动，试试FM助听调频系统直连电脑，让声音直接传入学生的人工耳蜗或助听器，辨听更轻松，可以节省出更多的注意力来写笔记和思考。
3. If you want to sit and listen, you don't need to interact verbally. Try connecting FM systems directly to the computer, allowing the sound to be passed directly to the student's cochlea or hearing aid, making it easier to listen, thus saving more attention to note writing and thinking.
4.上课的场所尽量放在家里的单独小房间，最好有厚实的窗帘和大量的书，可以营造出一个友好的听课环境。
Try to keep the classroom in a small room at home, preferably with thick curtains and plenty of books, to create a friendly environment for the class.
5.如果您是家长，定期和孩子沟通上课辨听方面的技术困难，大家一起来解决问题。
If you are a parent, communicate with your child regularly about technical difficulties in class listening and work together to solve problems.
千万不要责怪孩子“谁让你不专心听课”、“你不会看口型吗”。
Don't blame your child for "who distracts you from your lesson" or "can't you see the mouth?"
如果您和孩子想尽办法都没法解决，请主动咨询听障社群前辈，找他们介绍经验。
If you and your child can't find a way to solve the problem, please contact a senior member of the deaf community to share your experience.
结语从人工速记、语音转文字，再到可关闭字幕，从直播的新闻到直播的课堂，帮助听障人士在疫情或灾害环境下获取完整的信息，绝不是简简单单的一件事情，它甚至关系到民生安全和生命保障。
From shorthand and phonetic transcription to captioning that can be closed, from live news to live classrooms, it is not simply a matter of helping people with hearing impairment to obtain complete information in an epidemic or disaster environment. It is even a matter of human safety and life security.
我们相信疫情总有过去的那一天，但是也希望疫情过后，听障人士特别是那些听障学生们对实现字幕可以同时显现在视频上的呼吁需求能够得到解决。
We believe that there will always be a day in the past, but we also hope that the appeal of hearing-impaired people, especially those with hearing impairment, for subtitles to be shown on video at the same time will be addressed.
让信息无障碍的意识在中国大地上落地生根！欢迎留言/评论/转发 参与本话题的讨论残障之声ID:srrw007多元 /融合/发声 /行动投稿邮箱：wangczzs1203@163.com。
Let the awareness of information accessibility take root in China! Welcome message / comment / forward discussion on this topic DID: srrw007 Multiplicity / Integration / Voice / Action Contributing E-mail: wangczzs1203 @ 163.com.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
困局还是破局：听障学生与网络课堂。
Trouble or Destroy: Students with Hearing Impairment and Online Classrooms.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "残障之声";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "困局还是破局：听障学生与网络课堂";。
var msg _ title = & quot; dilemma or breach: hearing-impaired students and Internet class & quot;;
var msg_desc = "逐字字幕是声音世界里的坡道";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; verbatim subtitling is Ramp & quot; & quot; in the sound world.
var title ="残障之声";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
