防控疫情不力，全国至少33名干部受处分。
Prevention and control of the epidemic is weak, with at least 33 cadres disciplined nationwide.
杜茂林。
Du Maolin.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医生与病情好转的患者互道新春快乐。
On January 24, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital in the intensive care unit, doctors and patients who are improving to say happy New Year.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共2120字，阅读大约需要5分钟。
The full text is 2,120 words and takes about five minutes to read.
湖北至少有16名干部在疫情防控期间被处分，是公开通报中，处分干部最多的省份本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 杜茂林南方周末特约撰稿 蒋芷毓责任编辑 |钱昊平2020年1月27日，正月初三，副科级干部陈亮有些闷闷不乐，他是湖北大冶市（县级）大箕铺镇党委副书记，因为在防控新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情中工作不力，受到了党内警告处分。
At least 16 cadres from Hubei province were disciplined during the epidemic prevention and control period. The article was first sent to the province with the largest number of disciplinary cadres. This article was first sent at Southern Weekend without authorization.
具体原因是大箕铺下辖的八流村“疫情防控措施形同虚设”，陈亮作为驻村的镇领导，与八流村党总支书记石教国、大箕铺镇农办主任付玉红一起被处分。
The reason is that the village of Baliu under the jurisdiction of "epidemic prevention and control measures are ineffective," Chen Liang, as the village leader, with the general secretary of the Baliu village, Shijieguo, Dazipao town agricultural director Fu Yuhong was punished.
此次疫情防控中，自武汉“封城”后，受处分的干部不止他们3人，据南方周末记者统计，截至1月29日，全国至少已有33名干部受到处分，有的被警告，有的被免职，个别人还被纪委立案审查。
As of January 29, at least 33 cadres across the country had been disciplined, some warned, some dismissed and some placed on file with the disciplinary commission, according to Southern Weekend reporter statistics.
他们当中，既有厅级干部，也有处级干部，更多的是身处一线的基层干部。
Among them, not only department-level cadres, but also branch-level cadres, more are in the front line of the grass-roots cadres.
1纪委杀了“回马枪”陈亮就是被处分的基层干部，他是正月初一被纪委发现“防控不力”的。
1 Disciplinary Commission killed "return the horse gun" Chen Liang is punished by the basic cadres, he was the first day of the first month disciplinary committee found "ineffective control."
当天下午3时许，大冶市纪委前往八流村督查疫情防控，这是黄石（大冶隶属黄石市）最大的行政村，有7000多人口，24个自然村。
At about 3 p.m. on the same day, the Daye Municipal Disciplinary Committee went to Badu village to supervise the prevention and control of the epidemic, the largest administrative village in Huangshi, with a population of more than 7,000 and 24 natural villages.
此时，黄石被确诊的病例已达31例，死亡1例，已于前一天（1月24日）也即腊月三十“封城”。
By this time, 31 cases of Yellowstone had been confirmed and one case of death had been closed the previous day, January 24.
但迅猛而至的疫情，并没有让湖北省东南部的八流村停止“带彩”的娱乐，纪委发现沿街小卖部、棋牌室等4处，有不少村民在打牌，大多数人连口罩都没戴。
But the rapid advance of the epidemic did not stop the "colorful" entertainment in the village of Baliu in the southeastern part of Hubei Province. The disciplinary committee found that many villagers were playing cards in four places, including the commissary and chess room. Most of them were not wearing masks.
纪委工作人员将聚拢的村民劝走后，将情况向镇党委、政府做了反馈。
Disciplinary committee staff will gather villagers to persuade away, the situation to the township Party committee, the Government made feedback.
陈亮向南方周末记者回忆，纪委去督查时，他正在大冶市开会，不在现场。
Chen Liang told Southern Weekend reporter, discipline committee goes to inspect, he is meeting in big metallurgy city, not the scene.
得知情况后，他赶紧交代村总支书记让他每家每户去做工作。
After learning of the situation, he quickly told the village chief secretary to let him work in every household.
已被免去村总支书记一职的石教国告诉南方周末记者，当时，他和几名村干部立即赶到现场，告知村民需要注意防控，不能聚集。
Shi Jianguo, who had been relieved of his post as village chief, told Southern Weekend that he and several village officials had rushed to the scene to tell them to pay attention to prevention and control and not to gather.
但村民认为疫情防控与他们无关，“还说了些难听的话”。
But the villagers did not think they had anything to do with the outbreak and "said some nasty things."
没想到几个小时后，当晚9时，大冶市纪委又杀了一次“回马枪”。
Unexpectedly, a few hours later, at 9: 00 that night, the big metallurgical city discipline committee killed a "return to the horse gun."
暗访中发现仍有村民聚集“带彩”打牌。
During the unannounced visit, it was found that villagers were still gathering to play cards.
第二天，陈亮被纪委叫去谈话。
The next day, Chen Liang was summoned by the disciplinary committee to talk.
“太突然了。
"It's too sudden.
”陈亮说，“我23号召开紧急会议后就开始部署各项工作，25号就出了这个事。
"I started to deploy after the emergency meeting on the 23rd, and that's what happened on the 25th," Chen said.
”陈亮介绍，八流村那么大，但只有8个村干部，防控压力比较大，“村里聚众我们都及时劝阻，但是就像水葫芦一样，这个按了那个又起来了”。
Chen Liang said that the village of Baliu is so large, but there are only eight village cadres. "We all tried to dissuade the village from gathering, but like the water hyacinth, this one pushed the other up again.
很快，处分就下来了，包括陈亮在内的3个人都受到了处分。
Soon, the punishment came down, and all three, including Chen Liang, were disciplined.
陈亮觉得追责的效果“还是很明显”，现在村民更理解和配合防疫工作了，一般不出门，95%的人出门都会戴口罩，“截至目前，八流村没有一例确诊或疑似病例”。
Chen Liang felt that the effect of accountability "is still very obvious," now villagers more understand and cooperate with the epidemic prevention work, the general do not go out, 95% of people will wear masks, "so far, no case of diagnosis or suspicion in Baliu Village."
据陈亮介绍，正月初四，湖北省督查组又去检查，对他们的工作“评价很高”。
According to Chen Liang, at the beginning of January 4, the Hubei Provincial Supervision and Inspection Team went to inspect their work, "high evaluation."
（南方周末记者 杜茂林/图）2发布不实消息南方周末记者注意到，除陈亮等3人，湖北至少还有13名干部在疫情防控期间被追责，是目前公开通报处分干部最多的省份，其中黄冈武穴市花桥镇柏树林村村委会副主任项江红因发布不实消息被处分。
South Weekend reporter Du Maolin 2 released false news Southern Weekend reporter noted that in addition to Chen Liang, at least 13 cadres in Hubei province were held accountable during the epidemic prevention and control period, among which Xiang Jianghong, deputy director of the village council of Pak Shu Qiao, Huanggang Wuquan, was punished for publishing false information.
1月21日，黄冈公布了12例确诊病例。
On 21 January, Huang Gang announced 12 confirmed cases.
次日，一则有关疫情的消息在花桥镇流传；“花桥现已发生一例新型冠状病毒肺炎，已送到武汉，武穴市人民医院没有接收”，发布者就是项江红。
The next day, a piece of news about the epidemic spread in Huaxiao town. "A new case of coronavirus pneumonia has occurred in Huaqiao, and has been sent to Wuhan.
根据武穴市纪委监委通报，该消息是项江红道听途说的，她将前述内容发到自己为群主、有81人的微信群内，引起了广泛传播。
According to the disciplinary committee of Wuquan City, the news was based on the hearsay of Xiang Jianghong, who sent the above-mentioned content to her group of 81 people, causing wide dissemination.
调查核实后，武穴市纪委监委对项江红予以党纪立案，并移交派出所，1月23日晚上，项江红被撤销党内职务。
After the investigation and verification, the disciplinary committee of Wuquan City filed a case against Jiang and handed it over to the police station. On January 23, Xiang Jiang Hong was removed from the party.
南方周末记者注意到，履职不到位是33人被处分的主要原因，但也有干部是因故意隐瞒消息，其中包括浙江温岭市沙岙村党支部书记张夏友。
Southern Weekend reporter noted that failure to perform duty is the main reason for 33 people being punished, but some cadres, including Zhang Xia You, the secretary of Xiao Shao, a polo village branch of Wenling City, Zhejiang Province, were deliberately concealing information.
公开报道中，浙江省已处分4名干部。
In a public report, Zhejiang Province has disciplined four cadres.
张夏友是因为隐瞒儿子等3位亲属从武汉返乡的事实，被指严重违反了疫情防控工作纪律，并被免职。
Zhang Xia You is accused of seriously violating the discipline of disease prevention and control and was dismissed for concealing the fact that three relatives, including her son, had returned home from Wuhan.
3及时调整不胜任干部33名被处分的干部中，王增田的级别最高。
Among the 33 cadres who were disciplined, Wang Zengtian had the highest rank.
49岁的王增田是厅级干部，任天津市卫健委二级巡视员，这次因在防控工作中“严重失职失责、造成严重不良影响”，被留党察看二年，并被撤职。
Wang Zengtian, a 49-year-old hall cadre and second-class inspector of Tianjin Fitness and Fitness Commission, was detained for two years and dismissed for "serious dereliction of duty and serious adverse effects" in the work of prevention and control.
相比于北京、上海、重庆3个直辖市的确诊病例，天津确诊的病例相对较少，截至1月29日9时，天津累计发现新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例27例，无危重及死亡病例。
Compared with the confirmed cases in Beijing, Shanghai and Chongqing, Tianjin has relatively few confirmed cases. As of 9: 00 a.m. on January 29, there were 27 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection in Tianjin.
在王增田被处分的前一天，中共中央印发了《关于加强党的领导、为打赢防控疫情阻击战提供坚强政治保证的通知》，通知要求对不敢担当、作风漂浮、落实不力的，甚至弄虚作假、失职渎职的要严肃追责。
The day before his punishment, the CPC Central Committee issued a notice on strengthening Party leadership and providing strong political guarantees for winning and controlling the epidemic prevention and control war.
上述通知下达后，中央纪委国家监委网站发布评论，要求各地纪委为打赢疫情防控阻击战提供坚强纪律保障。
After the notice was issued, the website of the National Disciplinary Committee of the Central Committee on Discipline issued comments, requiring local discipline committees to provide strong disciplinary guarantees to win the fight against epidemic diseases.
中组部日前也发出通知，强调要注重在疫情防控狙击战一线考察识别领导班子和领导干部，及时调整不胜任现职、难以有效履行职责的干部。
The Ministry of Central Organization has also issued a circular stressing the importance of identifying leading teams and cadres on the frontline of epidemic prevention and control, and promptly adjusting cadres who are incompetent to perform their duties effectively.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防控疫情不力，全国至少33名干部受处分。
Prevention and control of the epidemic is weak, with at least 33 cadres disciplined nationwide.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "防控疫情不力，全国至少33名干部受处分";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Poor prevention and control, and at least 33 cadres nationwide have been disciplined;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
