艰难的自救——“封城”后百余癫痫病患儿面临断药。
Difficult self-help - "closure" after more than 100 children with epilepsy faced with drugs.
王书至。
Wang Shuzhong.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月9日，航拍武汉市的市容（无人机照片）。
February 9, aerial photography of Wuhan City (UAV photos).
（新华社记者 才扬/图）全文共4020字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 4,020 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
2月5日，谢青将服药间隔从12小时拉长到14小时，并且每次将剂量减少0.5毫升。
On February 5, Xie lengthened the interval from 12 to 14 hours and reduced the dosage by 0.5 ml at a time.
当晚，孩子手脚就出现异常抖动。
That night, the child's hands and feet were shaking violently.
谢青有点怕，只好恢复原来的剂量。
Xie Qing is a little afraid, had to restore the original dose.
李悦不敢想象断药的后果，断了或许意味着要重新试药，那意味着更大的经济支出，还要付出很多精力。
Li did not dare to imagine the consequences of a cut-off, which might mean a retrial of the drug, which would mean greater economic spending and a lot of energy.
苦等的家长不在少数，有人甚至走路到镇上去取药，但都被劝返。
There were many parents who had to walk to the town to get their medicine, but they were persuaded to come back.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特约撰稿 王书至责任编辑 | 钱昊平二十多天求药“无门”，李悦(化名)深感无力。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reprint without authorization. Wang Shu-ping, author of Wang Shu-ping's essay at Southern Weekend, was unable to write at least 20 days to find a cure.
她两岁的儿子，是癫痫病患者，每天都要服开浦兰口服液，由于新冠肺炎疫情的出现，儿子现在正面临断药的危险。
Her two-year-old son, an epileptic patient, takes a daily dose of Kaipland oral liquid and is now at risk of losing his medication because of the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
李悦家住湖北省黄冈市团风县，属于重灾区。
Li Yue lives in Tuanfeng county Huanggang City, Hubei Province.
武汉“封城”后，她就一直寻求各种办法给儿子买药，先后陷入买不到药、商家发不了货、快递无法送达的窘境，这令她倍感无助。
Wuhan "closed the city," she has been looking for ways to buy medicine for her son, has been unable to buy medicine, businessmen can not deliver goods, express delivery can not reach the predicament, she felt helpless.
给儿子找药时，她加入了一个病友群，那里有一百多个癫痫病患儿父母，他们来自湖北省内武汉、黄石、随州、孝感、十堰、荆门、荆州、黄冈、天门、咸宁、襄阳和仙桃等12个地区。
As she sought medicine for her son, she joined a group of over 100 parents of epileptic children from 12 areas in Hubei province, including Wuhan, Huangshi, Suizhou, Xiaoyan, Shiyan, Jingmen, Jingzhou, Huanggang, Tianmen, Xianning, Xiangyang and Xiantao.
为了不让患儿断药，家长们采取“自救”的方式，组团联络医药界人士帮助采购，并得到了相关志愿者的帮忙。
In order not to let the children off drugs, parents take a "self-help" approach, contact the medical community to help with procurement, and get help from relevant volunteers.
目前，已有志愿者协助解决了12名患儿的药物供给，其他孩子的家长只能继续等待。
So far, volunteers have helped with the medication for 12 children, and parents of other children have had to wait.
1无助：购药频遭退单患病的是李悦的小儿子，她原本家庭美满，但小儿子出生后，生活被改变了。
Unable to buy medicine is often returned sick is Li Yue's youngest son, she was a happy family, but after the birth of the youngest son, life has been changed.
孩子两个月大时，有次突然从床上摔下，当时未见异常，十多天后浑身抽搐。
When the child was two months old, he suddenly fell out of bed. There was no abnormality. He was convulsed after ten days.
“发作起来浑身抖，眼睛往上斜，口里面有泡泡。
"Shock up, eyes slanting up, bubbles in your mouth.
”李悦很害怕，抱着儿子径直去了武汉，到市儿童医院打了两针安定才平静下来，但也被确诊患上了癫痫。
"Li Yue was frightened and went straight to Wuhan with her son in her arms. She went to the Children's Hospital for two injections to calm down, but was also diagnosed with epilepsy.
治疗癫痫主要依赖药物。
The treatment of epilepsy mainly depends on drugs.
由于个体差异，一些病人需要尝试不同的抗癫痫药物才能确定治疗方案。
Due to individual differences, some patients need to try different antiepileptic drugs to determine the treatment options.
大多数患者服用一种抗癫痫药物便可控制发作，如果复发，则需要尝试不同的抗癫痫药物，为了弄清究竟哪种药物对患者有效，可能需要花费几个月的时间。
Most patients take an anti-epileptic drug to control seizures, and if they relapse, different antiepileptic drugs need to be tried, and it may take months to figure out what works for the patient.
这两年，李悦的儿子经历过两次试药。
For two years, Li Yue's son underwent two drug trials.
最初，武汉儿童医院的医生建议她尝试开浦兰，但控制不住，于是在此基础上加了奥卡西平，“结果更严重了。
Initially, Wuhan Children's Hospital doctors advised her to try Kaipland, but could not control it, so on the basis of the addition of Okasiping, "the results are more serious.
”她又抱着孩子去了上海和北京的医院，把奥卡西平换成了德巴金，这才使病情逐渐稳定。
"She took the baby to hospitals in Shanghai and Beijing and changed him to Debakin, stabilizing the situation.
根据医生的建议，孩子还需要服药七到八年。
On the doctor's advice, the child needs to take another seven to eight years.
看病使家庭逐渐背上了沉重的负担，“至少花了十几万。
At least a few hundred thousand dollars have been spent on medical care, which places a heavy burden on families.
”李悦说。
'said Li Yue.
平时，李悦都乘车去80公里外的武汉市儿童医院买开浦兰口服液，但这种处方药一次只能买两瓶，可以吃40天。
Usually, Li Yue goes to Wuhan Children's Hospital 80 kilometers away to buy Kaipland oral liquid, but this prescription can only buy two bottles at a time and can be eaten for 40 days.
2020年1月23日左右，听说武汉实行交通管制的消息后，李悦就立即在网上找药。
Around January 23, 2020, heard that Wuhan implemented traffic control news, Li Yue immediately on the Internet looking for drugs.
经历两天审核，大多数单子都没成功，“基本上能买的都下单了，有些没发货，有些卖家一听说去湖北的，就退单了”。
After two days of audit, most of the list failed, "basically can buy the order, some did not deliver goods, some sellers heard of Hubei, return the bill."
为了给儿子找药，她还被县城里最大的一间药店“骗”过，“他跟我讲武汉有认识的人，从武汉发货3天就能到，到了第六天，又说从广州发货，还在路上。
To find medicine for her son, she was also "deceived" by one of the largest pharmacies in the county. "He told me that Wuhan knew people who could be delivered three days from Wuhan, to the sixth day, and from Guangzhou, still on the way.
昨天（2月13日）我才知道，广州那边也没发货，他一直跟我说在路上”。
Yesterday (February 13) I just know, Guangzhou side also did not deliver goods, he always told me on the road. "
2月5日，李悦终于在网上找到两个愿意分享药物的病友家长，但对方的快递发出十天后，还停在郑州和广州。
On Feb. 5, Li finally found two parents who were willing to share the medicine but stopped in Zhengzhou and Guangzhou 10 days after the delivery.
“目前来说，这个药非常难搞。
"At the moment, this medicine is very difficult to administer.
”2月14日，李悦说，这几天她从志愿者处得知，京东推出了慢性病购药平台。
On February 14, Li said she had learned from volunteers over the past few days that a platform for purchasing medicines for chronic diseases had been launched in Jingdong.
然而当她尝试通过该渠道购买时，商家以目的地是湖北黄冈为由，拒绝接单。
However, when she tried to buy through this channel, the merchant refused to accept the order on the grounds that the destination was Huanggang, Huanggang.
李悦不敢想象断药的后果，断了或许意味着要重新试药，那意味着更大的经济支出，还要付出很多精力。
Li did not dare to imagine the consequences of a cut-off, which might mean a retrial of the drug, which would mean greater economic spending and a lot of energy.
2冒险：拉长用药周期比李悦幸运，谢青（化名）通过“私人关系”已收到儿子的药，但也费尽了周折。
2 Adventure: Extended medication cycle than Li Yue lucky, Xie Qing (alias) through "personal relations" has received his son's medicine, but also had a lot of trouble.
老家在汉川（孝感下辖县级市）的谢青现居长沙，她儿子今年5岁，两岁时被诊断出患有癫痫。
Her home in Hanchuan (filial piety under the jurisdiction of the county) Xie Qing now lives in Changsha, her son this year 5 years old, was diagnosed with epilepsy at the age of two.
2019年年底，谢青一家从长沙回到湖北过年，准备了可服用二三十天的剂量。
At the end of 2019, the family returned from Changsha to Hubei for the Spring Festival, ready to take a dose of 20 or 30 days.
不料，受困于新冠肺炎疫情，湖北全境实行了交通管制。
Unexpectedly, caught in the new crown pneumonia epidemic, Hubei implemented traffic control.
2020年1月23日凌晨，武汉发布公告称“封城”，1月25日，黄冈全市高速公路封闭，1月26日，鄂州中心城区实行机动车禁行管理。
In the early morning hours of January 23, 2020, Wuhan issued a notice that "closed the city," January 25, the Huanggang Expressway closed, January 26, Huizhou City, the implementation of motor vehicle ban.
最令谢青揪心的是，1月28日，孝感全市行政村（社区）、自然村之间交通被隔断。
Xie Qing most worried that January 28, filial piety throughout the city's administrative village (community), natural village traffic was cut off.
难定归期，谢青儿子的药只能撑到2月10日，这使她不得不考虑孩子可能面临断药问题。
Her son's medication lasted until Feb. 10, forcing her to consider the possibility that her child might be on the verge of a drug problem.
近3年来，她儿子也一直都在“试药”，最初服用过半年的奥卡西平，后来换成了德巴金，再后来又加了妥泰。
For nearly three years, her son has also been "drug testing," initially for half a year Okapine, later replaced by Debakin, and then Tottenham.
现在，孩子每天需要服药两次。
Today, children need to take medicine twice a day.
以往，谢青给儿子服的剂量都是遵照医嘱进行的。
In the past, the doses Xie Qing gave her son were prescribed by the doctor.
只有一次，她在长沙家中忘记给儿子用药，后果立即显现——一天抽搐了十几次，“一碰就抽”。
Only once did she forget to give her son medicine in the Changsha home, and the consequences immediately appeared - a dozen convulsions a day, "touch and smoke."
最后，她带着儿子去湘雅医院打镇定剂才得以缓解病情。
Finally, she took her son to Xiangya Hospital tranquilizer to be able to alleviate the disease.
之后，她再也不敢擅自增减药量。
After that, she did not dare to increase or decrease the dosage again.
但这次“封城”被困之后，为了让药物撑的时间久一点，谢青只能冒险——拉长儿子的用药周期。
But after the siege, Xie took the risk of lengthening her son's medication cycle in order to keep the drug on for longer.
2月5日，谢青将服药间隔从12小时拉长到14小时，并且每次将剂量减少0.5毫升。
On February 5, Xie lengthened the interval from 12 to 14 hours and reduced the dosage by 0.5 ml at a time.
这导致了意外出现，当晚，孩子手脚就出现异常抖动。
This led to an accident, and that night the child's hands and feet began to shake violently.
谢青有点怕，只好恢复原来的剂量。
Xie Qing is a little afraid, had to restore the original dose.
此前，她还让在汉川市中医院、汉川市人民医院工作的亲属和朋友帮忙找药，但亲朋都表示市内买不到。
Earlier, she had asked relatives and friends working at Hanchuan Chinese Hospital and Hanchuan People's Hospital to help find medicine, but relatives and friends said they could not buy any medicine.
“我连110都打了，市政府电话也打了，还有湖北电视台的帮女郎节目热线也打了，就是没办法，急得要死。
"I've even called 110, the city government has called, and Hubei TV's help girl hotline has also called, but there is no way, anxious to death.
”情急之下，她拜托两位分别在上海和安徽的患儿家长帮忙买药，“就是想着做个实验，看能不能到，因为之前有顺丰快递被打回去了，还有发货十多天没拿到的。
"In case of emergency, she asked two parents of children in Shanghai and Anhui to help buy the drugs," just to try and see if I could make it because Shun Fung Express had been called back and had been shipped for more than 10 days.
”心里打鼓的谢青，为了儿子的药品能顺利寄到，找了“私人关系”帮忙。
Xie Qing, the heart drum, for his son's medicine can be sent smoothly, found a "personal relationship" to help.
她认为自己运气不错，2月9日，也就是下单3天后，她收到了包裹——从湖南、安徽、上海买回来的7瓶抗癫痫药物，这些药够儿子吃上四个月。
On February 9, three days after the order, she received seven bottles of antiepileptic drugs from Hunan, Anhui and Shanghai, enough for her son to eat for four months.
3“药品库存每个小时都在变”等待药品过程中，2月6日，谢青通过患儿家属“花妈”（网名）拉起的病友群结识了更多家长。
"Drug stocks change hourly" as she waits for medicine, Feb. 6, when Xie Qing meets more parents through a group of sick children's family members, known as Flower Mum.
他们都是看到花妈的帖子后，从2月6日开始陆续通过社交平台加入了病友群，希望借此尽可能多地寻找药物来源，并解决配送问题。
They have been seeing Ma's post since February 6 to join the group of patients through social platforms, hoping to find as many sources of medicine as possible and solve distribution problems.
进群后，谢青得知有些家长给孩子减掉的剂量更大，使得孩子癫痫病开始发作。
After entering the group, Xie Qing learned that some parents to lose more doses to their children, so that epilepsy children began to attack.
“这是慢性病，要长期吃，一停就会发作，久而久之就成了继发性抽搐。
"This is a chronic disease, to eat for a long time, a stop will occur, over time has become a secondary convulsion.
”谢青说。
"said Xie Qing.
病友群群主花妈是一名上海癫痫患儿的家长，她从事脑瘫康复科普工作多年，在病友圈具有号召力。
Parent of a Shanghai epileptic child, she worked in cerebral palsy rehabilitation science popularization for many years, has a calling in the circle of sick friends.
出于“病耻感”，花妈平时很少在现实生活中与人谈论孩子的病情。
Because of the "sense of shame," Flower Mum seldom talks about her child's illness in real life.
但这次，她妥协了，通过微信发出了家长们的求助信。
But this time, she compromised, sending letters of help to her parents.
看到求助信后，闵磊立即响应。
Min Lei immediately responds to the request for help.
从事医药行业的闵磊此前跟癫痫病患儿群体并无交集。
Minlei, who worked in the pharmaceutical industry, had no interaction with children with epilepsy.
一次偶然的机会，她和花妈在同一家医院给小孩看病时结识。
By chance, she and Flower Mum met while they were attending a child in the same hospital.
闵磊联系了杭州某医疗公司负责人戴珅懿和某医疗APP创始人韩志毅，两人被花妈拉进病友群成了志愿者，和另外十几个志愿者一起，想办法帮家长们买药。
Min Lei contacted Dai Shen Yi, a director of a medical company in Hangzhou, and Han Zhiyi, founder of a medical APP. They were both volunteers by HuaMa in a group of patients, and joined a dozen other volunteers to find ways to help parents buy medicine.
戴珅懿负责与药企和医药平台联络，韩志毅则动员其公司在武汉的分支机构“宝中堂”给予支持。
Serving Yi was responsible for liaising with pharmaceutical companies and medical platforms, while Han Zhiyi mobilized the support of his company's branch in Wuhan, "Po Zhongtang."
据戴珅懿介绍，癫痫类药物属于中枢神经类药物，是国家管制药品，常见抗癫痫药物（如开浦兰、德巴金）可以凭处方在药店购买，但涉及二类精神药品（如硝西泮片），则必须在医院凭处方购买，目前武汉只有同济医院、武汉儿童医院等三甲医院能够提供。
According to Dai Shen Yi, epileptic drugs belong to the central nervous drugs, is the national control drugs, common antiepileptic drugs (such as Kaipland, Debajin) can be purchased by prescription in pharmacies, but in the case of category II psychotropic drugs (such as nitrosiazepam tablets), Wuhan only Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Children's Hospital and other tertiary hospitals can provide.
另外，还有一部分患儿家属选择在海外购买。
In addition, some of the children's families choose to buy overseas.
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，家长在国内能买到的抗癫痫药物大多只有常见类，还有一些家长担心到医院开药有被感染的风险，迟迟无法决策，也有家长从代购手里买了外国药，但快递无法入境湖北省。
Since the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, most of the antiepileptic drugs available to parents in China are only common. Some parents worry about the risk of infection in hospitals, delay decision-making, and some parents buy foreign drugs from a buying agent, but express delivery cannot enter Hubei province.
这期间，戴珅懿等医疗行业的志愿者对药物采购起了作用。
During this period, Dai Shen Yi and other medical industry volunteers played a role in drug procurement.
他们统计出了实际需要采购的药物数量，再由“宝中堂”报给湖北省医药公司，后者根据湖北各大药房的库存情况，分配一定数量的药物给“宝中堂”，最后通过EMS快递到患者手中。
They counted the quantities of drugs that needed to be procured and then reported them to Hubei Pharmaceutical Company, which distributed a certain amount of drugs to Baozhongtang according to the stock of major pharmacies in Hubei Province, which delivered them to patients via EMS.
对于“宝中堂”的负责人黄华而言，这项工作并不好做。
For Huang Hua, head of Po Zhongtang, the job is not easy to do.
“首先是（医药公司）库存会变动，每个小时都在变，其次是武汉市区的病人现在不愿去医院，都在药房买药，我是上午去医药公司抢到的。
"The first is that [drug companies] inventories are going to change, every hour is changing, followed by patients in Wuhan who don't want to go to the hospital now, they're all buying drugs at the pharmacy.
”新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，湖北省内多种医疗物资紧缺。
Hubei province has suffered from a shortage of medical supplies since the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia.
对于省内的药店老板而言，早上去医药公司“抢”物资已经见怪不怪。
For the province's drugstore owners, the morning to the pharmaceutical companies to "grab" supplies is no surprise.
癫痫病患儿的药物虽然不至于紧缺，但形势依旧紧张。
Children with epilepsy drugs although not scarce, but the situation is still tense.
即便采购环节的问题解决了，邮寄也不容易。
Even if the procurement problems are solved, mailing will not be easy.
根据邮政部门规定，个人交寄零散药品的，应提交购买药品的发票，仔细核对后办理寄递。
According to the regulations of the postal administration, individuals who deliver scattered drugs should submit invoices for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and carefully check and deliver them.
对长期、大量和集中交寄药品的，要求交寄人提供药品生产企业或经营企业的许可证，以及交寄人身份证明等。
In the case of long-term, large-scale or centralized delivery of medicines, the consignee shall be required to provide a license for the pharmaceutical producing enterprise or trading enterprise, and identity certificate of the consignee, etc.
受新冠肺炎疫情影响，湖北省医药公司接单量激增，“一时也弄不到那么多发票。
Hubei pharmaceutical companies have seen a surge in orders as a result of the outbreak of pneumonia in Hubei province.
”闵磊说，经过不断协商，目前第一批药物已经发往湖北各地，但只有12份，共计48件，总价值4677元。
After continuous consultation, the first batch of drugs has been sent to different parts of Hubei Province, but only 12, totalling 48, with a total value of 4,677 yuan, Min Lei said.
只解决了12名患儿的用药问题，数字不算多，“但需求端一直在增加。
Only 12 cases of drug use were solved, a modest number. "But the demand side has been increasing.
”闵磊还听说，京东健康最近推出的“湖北慢病患者断药登记”平台已收到了约2500条癫痫药的登记信息。
Min Lei also heard that the Beijing-East Health recently launched "Hubei patients with chronic drug registration" platform has received about 2,500 epileptic drug registration information.
她希望能有更多人的参与，让患儿的问题受到重视。
She hoped that more people would be involved and that the problems of the sick would be taken into account.
4“最后一公里”难题闵磊现在担心的是药品怎样才能到达患儿家长手里，“很多细节落实不好，主要是发货问题和最后一公里的问题”。
Min Lei is now worried about how the drugs will reach their parents. "A lot of details are not being worked out, mainly the delivery problem and the last kilometer problem."
鄂州的郑荟（化名），至今仍没有找到接收药品的可行途径。
Zhengzhou Zheng Vera (alias), has not found a viable way to receive medicine.
“如果3月份还到不了，孩子的药就要断了。
"If we don't get there in March, the child's medication is going to die.
”她女儿7岁，由于病症比较严重，她不仅让孩子服用大陆生产的药物，同时还尝试了德国产的氯巴占和中国台湾版的佐沙伲胺，病情才算稳定下来。
Her daughter, 7, is not only taking mainland-made drugs but has also tried German-made chlorobazines and Taiwan-based versions of zosarini amine to stabilize her condition.
无法直接买进口药，郑荟只能找广东佛山的代购帮忙。
Can not directly buy imported medicine, Zheng Vera can only seek Guangdong Foshan agent to help.
但新冠肺炎疫情发生后，代购告诉她，邮政部门不再接发往湖北的快递。
But after the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the agent told her that the postal department no longer receive express delivery to Hubei.
郑荟一下慌了，到处打听怎么才能买到药。
Zheng vera flurried, asking how to buy medicine everywhere.
两天前，她终于取回了女儿服用的国产药，但进口药仍无消息。
Two days ago, she was able to retrieve her daughter's home-grown medicine, but there was no news of the import.
像她一样仍在苦等的家长不在少数，有人甚至走路到镇上去取药，但都被劝返。
Many parents, like her, were still waiting, and some even walked to the town to get their medicine, but were persuaded to come back.
2月8日以来，尽管交通运输部已经下达紧急运输令，也多次强调保障湖北地区防疫物资运送，但仍有家长给孩子买的药遭到拒寄。
Since 8 February, despite emergency transport orders issued by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and repeated emphasis on ensuring the delivery of epidemic prevention supplies in Hubei, medicines purchased by parents for their children have been denied.
南方周末就此拨打了邮政快递热线11183，接线人员表示，目前寄往湖北的EMS快递仍可下单，拨打热线电话告知地址即可。
Southern Weekend called the post express hotline 11183, wiring personnel said that at present sent to Hubei EMS express can still order, call the hotline to inform the address.
此外，如果寄到农村的邮件在5公斤以下，将在村邮站或者村委会转投，届时邮政部门会电话联系收件人，告知收件人及时领取。
In addition, if the mail sent to the rural area is under 5 kg, it will be transferred to the Village Post Office or Village Committee, at which time the postal department will contact the recipient by telephone and inform him to collect it in time.
针对“最后一公里”难题，2月11日，汉川市防控新冠肺炎疫情指挥部相关人员向南方周末表示，如果遇到接收快递的难题，他们可以协助安排社区干部将快递送到家门口。
On Feb. 11, officials from Hanchuan's New Crown Pneumonia Command told Southern Weekend that they could help arrange for community officials to deliver couriers to their homes if they encounter difficulties in receiving couriers.
郑荟已经不想享受这样的“服务”了，她就希望能在3月之前找机会把女儿带出湖北。
Zheng did not want to enjoy such a "service", she would like to find a chance before March to take her daughter out of Hubei.
李悦也有同样的想法，想到儿子以前发病时的样子，她就心疼，“就算让我走十几公里到县城，甚至走三十公里到市区，我也愿意。
Li Yue has the same idea, thinking of her son's past illness, she is distressed, "even if let me walk a dozen kilometers to the county, even 30 kilometers to the city, I would like.
”征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call for Southern Weekend is an open call for news leads for all readers on the front lines of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
艰难的自救——“封城”后百余癫痫病患儿面临断药。
Difficult self-help - "closure" after more than 100 children with epilepsy faced with drugs.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "艰难的自救——“封城”后百余癫痫病患儿面临断药";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
