疫情中，中国大学这样上直播课。
During the outbreak, Chinese universities attended live classes like this.
张锐。
Zhang Rui.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年春季学期，王鲁峰在老家的屋顶开启了直播，为62名本科生授课。
In the spring of 2020, Mr. Wang opened a live broadcast on the roof of his hometown, teaching 62 undergraduates.
受访者供图全文共4442字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text was 4442 words and it would take about 7 minutes to read.
肖寒还在网上完成了本学期的第一节体育课——长拳——仅仅是看完了一节课的教学视频。
Xiao also completed his first physical education class of the semester online -- Changquan -- just watching a teaching video from a class.
“老师快退休了，但玩得挺溜的，我想一定是试了好久才给我们上课……特殊时期，网络时代，大家都尽力而为了。
"The teacher is about to retire, but he is very smooth. I think it must have been a long time before he gave us lessons... special period, network age, everyone did his best.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张锐南方周末实习生 杜嘉禧责任编辑 |邢人俨2020年2月12日中午十二点多，华中农业大学食品科学技术学院副教授王鲁峰在山东济宁某村的屋顶上结束了当天的本科生课程——《食品工程原理》。
Jing Xing, associate professor at the School of Food Science and Technology at the Central China Agricultural University, finished his undergraduate course, Principles of Food Engineering, on the roof of a village in Jinning, Shandong Province, at noon on February 12, 2020.
接受南方周末记者采访时，他刚刚从屋顶上爬下来：“屋里信号不好，上屋顶实在是无奈之举。
In an interview with Southern Weekend reporter, he had just climbed down from the roof: "The house signal is not good, the roof is really helpless.
”在网络流传的答疑课视频中，王鲁峰坐在屋顶的简易桌子前，对摄像头举着教案，在大风中讲解：“有几个同学反映，在能量衡算这一块很疑惑，我刚才可能讲太快，我画了一个图，给大家看一下……”过去，王鲁峰在黑板上为学生授课和答疑，现在，他面前是一个小小的摄像头和屋顶能望见的几棵光秃秃的树。
In a question-and-answer video circulated on the Internet, Wang Lu Feng sat at a simple table on the roof and explained in a gale: "Some students said they were confused about energy balance.
王鲁峰告诉南方周末记者：“还是有点累和狼狈，好在学生理解。
Wang Lu Feng told Southern Weekend reporter: "Or a little tired and embarrassed, good students understand.
”根据王鲁峰所在的华中农业大学发布的通知，自2月10日起，各学院统一按校历和课表进行在线教学。
Since February 10, schools have been teaching online according to the school calendar and curriculum, according to a notice issued by the Central China Agricultural University, where Mr. Wang is based.
往年，王鲁峰自武汉回老家，过年前后待不到一周，便要返回武汉备课。
In previous years, Wang Lu Feng returned home from Wuhan, spent less than a week around the New Year, will return to Wuhan to prepare lessons.
今年，王鲁峰返乡后成了村里的重点隔离对象，一家人至今隔离在老家中。
This year, Wang Lu Feng returned to the village after the focus of the isolation of the target, the family is still isolated in his hometown.
“不仅我一个人，还有其他不少在河南、安徽等地的老师也在克服困难给学生上课。
"Not only I, but also many other teachers in Henan, Anhui and other places are also overcoming difficulties for students to attend classes.
”王鲁峰对南方周末记者说。
"Wang told Southern Weekend reporter.
距离济宁560公里之外，来自河南信阳的汪垒是中国地质大学（武汉）数学与物理学院副教授，负责本学期112人的本科生高数课程。
560 kilometers away from Jinning, Wang barrier from Xinyang, Henan Province, is an associate professor in the School of Mathematics and Physics at the China Geology University (Wuhan).
开课前，他买的笔记本电脑终于顺利到货，让他松了一口气。
He was relieved that his laptop had finally arrived before the class began.
平常用的电脑留在武汉，幸好网络云盘中存有课件和教学资料，同事也可以帮忙扫描教科书和习题册。
Ordinary computers stay in Wuhan, but thanks to the existence of courseware and teaching materials on the internet, colleagues can also help scan textbooks and problem sets.
他对着屏幕上的大一新生说：“你们都是大学生了，应该自觉一些了，而且你们也知道这门课学分挺高的……”2月13日晚七点半，华中师范大学新闻与传播学院副教授许玲结束了新学期的第一天课程——早上十点的《城市传播学》、下午两点的《新媒体概论》和晚上六点用英文授课的《媒介与社会》。
"You are all college students, you should be aware of it, and you know it's quite well-worth..." Xu Ling, associate professor at the School of Journalism and Communication, Huazhong Normal University, finished her first semester at 10 a.m., Introduction to New Media at 2 p.m. and The Media and Society at 6 p.m.
许玲工作生活在武汉。
Xu Ling lives and works in Wuhan.
“我的大部分课程都与新媒体有关，对新媒体较为了解，所以对这种形式感觉比较自然。
"Most of my classes are about new media and I know a lot about new media, so it's natural to feel that way.
”出乎她意料的是，实际上课的人数超过了原定人数，不少人甚至是同学拉进来蹭课的，一些其他专业的、还在国外交换的学生也参加了直播课程。
To her surprise, the class was actually attended by more people than originally planned, many by fellow students, and some students from other professions who were also exchanging lessons abroad.
原本容纳45人的线下课变成网课后，听课人数不再受限，“有一些并未选上这门课程的学生也进来了”。
The 45-person offline class became an after-school course, with no limits on the number of attendees. "Some students who did not take the course also came in."
许玲全程没露脸。
Xu Ling did not show her face.
尽管有学生怂恿她出镜，她拒绝了：“网络上课和平时最大不同，就是不太利于深度思考。
"The biggest difference between online classes and everyday life is that they're not conducive to in-depth thinking," she says, despite being enticed into acting by students.
这个时候教学露脸，学生注意力容易分散，达不到好的效果，把这些多的因素砍掉，关键性的功能保留。
At this time of teaching exposure, students tend to spread attention, do not achieve good results, these many factors are cut off, the key function is preserved.
”截至发稿时，华中农业大学、华中师范大学、中国地质大学（武汉）均以网课正式开课。
As of the time of writing, the Central China Agricultural University, the Central China Normal University and the China Geology University (Wuhan) had all officially opened online classes.
2月17日后，包括武汉大学、华中科技大学在内更多的武汉高校也会陆续加入网课的行列。
After Feb. 17, more Wuhan universities, including Wuhan University and Huazhong University of Science and Technology, will join the ranks of online courses.
正在上直播课的王鲁峰。
Wang Lu Feng, who is attending a live lesson.
受访者供图1“网课一看就知道谁没到，就打电话叫他来上课”按照高校网课的一般流程，各学科首先要建相应的课程QQ群或微信群，上传相关学习资料，在群中统一安排上课使用的教学平台——中国MOOC、雨课堂、超星学习通、腾讯课堂等，具体的教学平台使用并无强制规定。
In accordance with the general procedures of the college network, each discipline should first set up a corresponding course QQ group or micro-group, upload relevant learning materials, arrange teaching platforms for classes in groups - MOOC, Rain Classroom, Superstar Learning Communication, Tencent Classroom, etc. There is no mandatory use of specific teaching platforms.
华中师范大学一位大四本科生介绍，云课堂里还有很多录播课和PPT教材，供学生自学。
Huazhong Normal University, a senior undergraduate introduction, there are many Cloud Classroom and PPT teaching materials for students to self-study.
许玲告诉南方周末记者，一些因过年滞留外地的同事由于手边没有合适的设备或资料，现阶段只能暂不开课。
Xu told Southern Weekend reporter that some colleagues who had stayed away from home for the past year could only suspend classes at this stage because they did not have suitable equipment or materials at hand.
王鲁峰手边也没有纸质教材，用的是之前储存在云端的电子版，学生看的部分资料也是他从网上找来的。
Mr. Wang also doesn't have a paper-based textbook on hand, using an electronic version he used to store in the cloud, part of which he found online.
上了几天课后，天气稍微暖和一些，风没有那么大，王鲁峰在屋顶上的直播还算顺利。
After a few days of class, the weather is a little warmer, the wind is not so big, Wang Lu Feng on the roof of the live broadcast is relatively smooth.
由于老家没有安装宽带网络，电脑连的是手机热点。
Since no broadband network has been installed at home, computers are connected to mobile hotspots.
网络好的时候，王鲁峰会开一下视频，一旦卡住就切换成语音。
When the network is good, Wang Lu Summit to open a video, once stuck to switch into voice.
“关键还是网速卡，声音变得嘎吱嘎吱的，有时候可能切换不过来。
"The key is the speed card, the sound becomes crunchy, sometimes may not switch over.
”王鲁峰告诉南方周末记者：“雨课堂已经崩溃好几次了，全国各地老师都在用，可能人太多了吧。
"The classroom has collapsed several times and teachers all over the country are using it, maybe too many people," Wang told Southern Weekend reporter.
当然，平台很多，有腾讯课堂、微视还有一些其他的。
Of course, there are many platforms, Tencent classroom, micro-vision and some other.
刚才的课，雨课堂上了一半就不行了，我又退到QQ群里面去了。
Just now the class, rain on half of the class can not, I retreated to the QQ group inside.
”汪垒用的也是手机流量，还开通了流量加油包，“现在湖北的运营商有活动，10元10个G，一个半小时的直播大概是1.5G-2G左右，所以还能顶得住”。
"Wang barrier is also used for mobile phone traffic, but also opened up the flow of fuel packs," Hubei operators are now active, 10 yuan 10 G, 1.5 hours of live broadcast about 1.5 G-2G, so can withstand.
汪垒告诉南方周末记者，他同时使用多个平台，超星、QQ直播都用过，一个平台信号不好，等不了就赶紧换另一个试一下。
Wang told Southern Weekend reporter, he also used multiple platforms, superstar, QQ live broadcast have been used, a platform signal is not good, can not wait to quickly change another try.
由于网络拥堵，仍有一些学生始终无法连入。
As a result of the network congestion, there are still some students who remain inaccessible.
直播讲课时，汪垒还会特地开一个录屏软件，直播过的视频上传到群里，供学生下载和反复观看。
When lecturing live, Wang will also open a special video software, live broadcast of the video upload to the group, for students to download and repeatedly watch.
计算机专业大二本科生肖寒告诉南方周末记者，一次直播课时，老师在群里发起关于“电子计算机总体上分为哪两类”的投票，一些学生退出直播间去群里投票，之后因网络问题再也无法进入直播间。
Computer Majors sophomore Xiao Han told Southern Weekend reporter that during a live class, teachers in the group launched a vote on "What are the two kinds of computers in general?" Some students dropped out of the studio to vote in groups and could no longer access the studio due to cyber problems.
肖寒还在网上完成了本学期的第一节体育课——长拳——仅仅是看完了一节课的教学视频。
Xiao also completed his first physical education class of the semester online -- Changquan -- just watching a teaching video from a class.
许玲直播上课的第一天，并未遇到长时间的网络卡顿问题。
Xu Ling live the first day of class, did not encounter a long network of problems Carton.
正在上小学的儿子这些天也在上网课，“家里挺热闹的”，甚至启发了她用孩子的同款软件来上课。
Her son, who is in elementary school, is also taking classes online these days. "It's very lively at home," and it even inspired her to use the same software for her children.
中国地质大学（武汉）水文与水资源专业大二本科生刘露介绍，一些需要分析和计算的课程，平时上课可能跟不上，现在却可以完整记录下来，反复学习，“但缺少那种迫使你去学习的感觉，你可能会玩手机、走神，会一下子忘掉了这节课的存在”。
Liu Lu, a sophomore majoring in hydrology and water resources at the China Geology University (Wuhan), said that some courses requiring analysis and calculation that might not be able to keep up with the lessons could now be fully documented and learned over and over again. But without the feeling of forcing you to learn, you might be playing with your cell phone and daydreaming and forget about the lesson.
刘露告诉南方周末记者，上直播课时，总有学生忘了关麦克风，也有人不小心打开摄像头。
Liu Lu told Southern Weekend reporter, on the live class, always students forgot to turn off the microphone, also someone accidentally opened the camera.
“一张大脸会突然插进来，傻傻地对着屏幕。
"A big face pops in and looks foolishly at the screen.
有时，有人忘了上课，虽然这个在平时上学的时候很常见，但网课一看就知道谁没到，就打电话叫他来上课。
Sometimes, someone forgot to attend class, although this is very common in normal school, but the net class at a glance know who did not arrive, call him to come to class.
”中国地质大学经济管理学院教师宫培松告诉南方周末记者，这学期他有三门课程，其中两门课现阶段会采用录播形式，直播课程会使用QQ群分享屏幕功能，不使用第三方平台，“学校本来推荐我们使用的是超星学习通，但是大家都使用的话，服务器垮了根本带不动，所以我用折中的方式，用电脑录视频，这是最简单的方式。
This semester he will have three classes, two of which will be video-recorded at this stage. The live course will use QQ group to share screens instead of using a third-party platform.
”2“老师快退休了，但玩得挺溜的”2月12日召开的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，教育部高等教育司司长吴岩指出，根据教育部安排，22个线上平台的2.4万门课程是几年来精心组织培育遴选的好课。
"The teacher is retiring, but he is having a good time," Wu Yan, director of the Higher Education Department of the Ministry of Education, said at a press conference on Feb. 12 that 24,000 courses on 22 online platforms had been carefully organized and nurtured over the years.
教育部不提倡、不鼓励、不建议高校要求每位老师都制作直播课。
The Ministry of Education does not advocate, encourage or recommend that colleges and universities require every teacher to make live lessons.
一些父母在高校任教的网友表示，父母要学习繁琐的网课操作，无奈之下只能求助于自己的孩子。
Some parents in colleges and universities to teach netizens, parents to learn tedious operation of the network, but can only turn to their own children.
上网课之前，53岁的郑州大学水利科学与工程学院教授左其亭花了两个半天学习雨课堂的使用方法，学习如何登录直播平台、设置授课模式，发布问题、看答案情况等。
Before the class began, Zuoqi Ting, a 53-year-old professor at Zhengzhou University's School of Water Science and Engineering, spent two half-day sessions studying the use of rain classes, learning how to log on to live platforms, set up teaching models, post questions, check answers, etc.
第一次上课，左其亭还是遇到了问题。
On the first day of class, the left booth had a problem.
他不知道怎么设置已回答好的问题，学生回答正确的时候，系统上仍然是错误的。
He doesn't know how to set up the answer to a good question. When the student answers correctly, the system is still wrong.
由于操作网络平台容易分神，左其亭一开始上课有些手忙脚乱，“这种模式很容易接受，没有太大的困难，要说困难，可能对年龄较大的教师，熟悉网络平台需要花点时间”。
"This model is easy to accept, it's not too difficult, and if it's difficult, it may take a little time for older teachers to familiarize themselves with the web platform."
国内某医学院医学技术专业大四学生张炳坤告诉南方周末记者，第一天上了六节专业课，治疗技术演示课上，授课老师在医院里不仅为班级的七名学生直播上完整节课，还找来了真人进行教学演示，“老师快退休了，但玩得挺溜的，我想一定是试了好久才给我们上课……特殊时期，网络时代，大家都尽力而为了”。
Zhang Bingkun, a senior medical and technical major at a medical school in China, told Southern Weekend reporter that the first day of six professional classes, treatment technology demonstration classes, not only for the class of seven students live lectures, but also found a real-life teaching demonstration, "the teacher is retiring, but fun, I think it must have been a long time to give us lessons...
许玲告诉南方周末记者：“我认识的一些教师，包括年龄偏大一些的老师都还是挺会用的。
"Some teachers I know, including older ones, are still quite good at it," Xu told Southern Weekend reporter.
”汪垒从华中科技大学获得博士学位后，曾在华为工作过一段时间，直播视频是必不可少的软件，因此使用起来轻车熟路。
"After earning his doctorate from Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wang spent some time at Huawei, where live video was an essential piece of software and was thus well-used.
他对南方周末记者说：“就跟微信一样，有些父母不会用，是一个道理。
He told Southern Weekend reporter: "Just like the letter, some parents can't use it, it's a truth.
他们觉得麻烦，也不太愿意学习或者操作一个新的东西。
They are troubled and reluctant to learn or operate a new thing.
”汪垒介绍，用直播这种实时在线的方式给学生上课，并非唯一选择。
Wang said it was not the only way to teach students live online.
网上有很多公开的质量较高的慕课资源（MOOC,MassiveOpenOnlineCourse,即大规模开放的在线课程），老师也可以让学生自行观看。
There are many open, high-quality mole resources on the Internet (MOOC, MassiveOpenOnline Course, a large open online course), which teachers can also let students watch on their own.
“你需要通过一些方式跟学生互动和答疑，指导、跟进他的学习进程。
"You need to interact with the student and answer questions in a number of ways to guide and follow up on his learning process.
不可能丢给学生一句话，然后啥也不管、啥也不问，这样肯定不合适。
It is impossible to throw a word to a student, and then do nothing, ask nothing, which is certainly not appropriate.
按照课表，慕课你要听多少个，然后根据他们的进度，还要有作业。
According to the class schedule, you need to listen to how many classes, and then according to their progress, there is also homework.
”汪垒的新笔记本电脑是可触屏的，方便他上课时进行涂写，过往的黑板如今被电脑屏幕替代，除了学生看不到他的脸。
Wang's new laptop was touchable, making it easy for him to scribble in class, and the blackboards of the past were now replaced by computer screens, with the exception of students who couldn't see his face.
课程结束后，汪垒还会在线询问学生问题，统一收集后第二天通过录屏的方式解答后，再传到QQ群中。
After the course, Wang will also ask students online questions, unified collection of the next day through a video solution, and then upload to the QQ group.
高校开课之前，小学和中学的直播课程早已开课，网络上出现了各种声音：网课太欺负人、大型网课翻车现场……相关话题也多次登上微博热搜，移动办公平台钉钉还被小学生集体打了低分。
Before the opening of the university, the primary and secondary schools live classes have been opened, the network has been a variety of voices: online classes too bully, large-scale classes overturned the scene... Relevant topics have also repeatedly boarded Weibo hot, mobile office platform tacks have been collectively hit by low scores of primary school students.
王鲁峰对南方周末记者说：“我认为可以接受高中，初中及以下网课的必要性不是太大，或者手段有待斟酌。
"I don't think it is necessary to take high school, junior middle school or lower online classes, or the means to be considered," Wang told Southern Weekend reporter.
”在他看来，录播可以作为高校教学的一种补充手段。
In his view, video can be used as a supplementary means of teaching in colleges and universities.
“若干个短的录播还是可以接受的，你要完全不管了，放那录播，像看电影了，教学互动缺失，意义不大。
"Several short videos are acceptable, and you just have to ignore them, put them on like a movie, and there's not much point in teaching interaction.
”许玲也不太喜欢录播这种教学方式，“因为自己对着电脑讲，得不到学生的反馈”。
Xu also did not like the idea of recording, "because she talked to her computer and got no feedback from her students."
3“想办法和他们互动，不能唱独角戏”左其亭一开始看不到学生的表情，无法借助肢体语言和面部表情，难以迅速调动激情，又因为不受干扰，讲课速度不自主地加快。
"Try to interact with them instead of monologue." Left-handed booths initially lost sight of students "expressions, their body language and facial expressions, their ability to mobilize emotions quickly, and their speed of lectures accelerated involuntarily because of their undisturbed appearance.
他最担心的是学生听不懂、积极性不高，“不过从我讲课情况看，学生的反馈还是不错的”。
What worried him most was that the students did not understand and were not motivated enough, "but from my lectures, students' feedback was good."
王鲁峰带的是62人的本科大班，这是他第一次给这些学生上课。
Wang Lufeng took a 62-member undergraduate class, the first time he had given a class to these students.
“学生能看到我的PPT，听到我的声音，如果开视频的话，他们也可以看见我。
"Students can see my PPT, hear my voice, and they can see me if they play a video.
但互动很受影响，板书也困难。
But interaction is affected, and paperwork is difficult.
整体教学效果还是不如传统课堂教学。
Overall teaching effect is not as good as traditional classroom teaching.
”汪垒一直赞成学生自主学习。
Wang barrier had always been in favour of student autonomy.
“现在的教育资源非常好，如果你觉得我们讲得不好，或者你觉得网络卡，那么你可以自己到网上去学，B站、大学生慕课、网易公开课……上面都有很多资源。
"Educational resources are very good right now. If you think we don't speak English well, or if you think the network card, then you can go to the Internet, Station B, student admiration class, Netease Open class.
你想学习一门知识，在这个时代不是一件难事，相反很容易。
You want to learn a knowledge, in this age is not a difficult thing, on the contrary, it is easy.
有的学生反映，网课不是很好，不是很容易接受。
Some students reported that the net class is not very good, not very easy to accept.
我觉得只要你想学知识，这都不是理由。
I don't think it's a reason if you want to learn something.
”每次上完网课，汪垒都会布置作业，学生做完之后，拍成图片，由学习委员压缩后统一发给他批改。
"Every time he finished his net lesson, Wang barrier would assign his homework. After the students finished, he took pictures, which were compressed and distributed to him for correction by the academic committee.
汪垒发现，很多学生的作业完成得非常认真，笔记也做得很好。
Wang found that many students did their homework very carefully and took good notes.
有学生私下发消息给他：“我特别想回去上学，以前正常放寒假的时候都盼着寒假长一点，结果今天真长了之后就突然发现特别想回去上学。
"I wanted to go back to school very much," one student told him privately. "I used to look forward to a longer winter break when I had a normal winter break.
”汪垒告诉南方周末记者：“我要是他们，很有可能就划水，但是相反他们跟我发消息说特别想回去读书，天天在家里待着发慌，这让我特别受触动。
"If I were them, I would probably paddle," Wang told Southern Weekend, "but I was particularly touched when they told me that they wanted to go back to school in particular and to lie around the house every day.
”但一些商家仍打出了“网课代刷”的广告，包括超星学习通、智慧树等在内的多个平台，宣称“专业刷课，考试包过”。
But some businesses still advertise "online brushes," including superstar students9 and smart trees, declaring "professional brushing lessons and passing exams.
南方周末记者联系上一个代刷商家，该商家表示，需要告知学校、账户和学习平台，按照集数定价。
Southern Weekend reporter contacted a brush agent who said schools, accounts and learning platforms needed to be informed and priced according to set prices.
在对方出具的截图上，还标有红色的公告：智慧职教价格大幅下滑，欢迎下单。
In the other side of the screenshot, also marked with a red notice: wisdom of the price decline, welcome to order.
上了直播课后，许玲最大的感受是：“我要想办法和他们互动，不能自己在那里唱独角戏”。
After the live class, Xu's biggest feeling was: "I'm going to try to interact with them and not be able to solo there."
讲到一个知识点，许玲会有意识地停下来留些时间询问学生的听课效果。
Speaking of a point of knowledge, Xu Ling will consciously stop to leave some time to ask students about the effects of the lectures.
这时，学生会通过打字或者开麦的方式表达意见。
At this point, the students will express their opinions by typing or boiling wheat.
“有的孩子平时不太说话，反而这个时候比较敢说了，我跟他们说，你们不要带着压力来上课，这是很轻松的课程。
"Some kids don't talk much, but this is the time to speak out," I told them. "Don't come to class under pressure. It's an easy lesson.
”正式上课之前，许玲会先与授课的三个班级联系试课。
Before the formal class began, Xu Ling tried to connect with the three classes she was teaching.
“你能感受到他们学习劲头很大。
"You can feel them working very hard.
”许玲告诉南方周末记者，“我能感受到，所以我在每个课堂跟他们讲，你们需要放松，我也会帮助你们逐渐进入状态。
"I can feel it, so I tell them in every class that you need to relax, and I'm going to help you get into shape," Xu told Southern Weekend reporter.
”直播时，一些“蹭课”的学生通过开放式链接进入课堂，就像线下“蹭课”时学生从开放的教室门口走进来一样，现在，他们只需要点击许玲发送的邀请链接。
During the live broadcast, some "scratch" students enter the classroom via open links, just as students walk in from the door of an open classroom when they "scratch classes" offline, and now they simply click on the invitation links Xu sent.
（应受访者要求，肖寒、刘露、张炳坤为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Xiao Han, Liu Lou and Zhang Bingkun have solicited Southern Weekend as an alias.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中，中国大学这样上直播课。
During the outbreak, Chinese universities attended live classes like this.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中，中国大学这样上直播课";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; at Chinese universities.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
