不退缩，有时候和英雄无关。
Don't shrink. Sometimes it's not about heroes.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲疫情期间仍旧开门的药店。
Pharmacies that remain open during the epidemic.
全文共2803字，阅读大约需要5分钟。
The full text is 2803 words and takes about 5 minutes to read.
药店人可能从没想到，坚持日常营业也能成为一件值得赞赏的事，但目前确是如此，沿街看去，店铺门大多紧闭，药店很有可能是少有的还为居民提供服务的商业场所。
Pharmacists may never have expected that sticking to their day-to-day business could be an admirable thing, but for now, along the street, shop doors are mostly closed, and pharmacies are likely to be the few places where residents can find a business.
目前，全国有40多万家药店，就是40多万个哨点，上百万名药店人就是上百万名“哨兵”，他们日夜值守，履职尽责，害怕、劳累、压力，都不曾使他们退缩，无关乎英雄主义，只不过是作为平凡人，在平凡的岗位上，做着非常值得令人尊重的工作。
At present, there are more than 400,000 pharmacies, or more than 400,000 posts, and a million pharmacies are millions of "sentinels" who are on duty day and night, performing their duties, afraid, tired and stressed, and who do not shrink from heroism, but as ordinary people doing highly respectable work in ordinary posts.
这个世上本来就没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
There is no such thing as a hero in the world. There are only mortals who step forward.
1偷偷活成英雄的样子“麻烦您出示下身份证，这里有个登记表，麻烦填一下。
secretly become a hero "Could you show me your ID card, please fill out this registration form.
”张业文的嗓子已经有些沙哑，然而这段话已经烂熟于心。
Zhang Yiwen's voice had grown hoarse, but the words were familiar to him.
1月31日，浙江省医保局发布紧急通知，疫情防控期间，零售药店购买发热、咳嗽药品人员都需进行信息登记报告。
On January 31, Zhejiang Medical Insurance Bureau issued an emergency notice, the epidemic prevention and control period, retail pharmacies to purchase fever, cough medicine personnel are required to register information.
张业文是杭州一家零售药店的店长，过年期间店员回老家，作为店长需要顶班，除去到公司提货的时间，他基本上天天守在店里，遇上有顾客前来买药，就会出现上面一段对话，如果是购买带一点清热类药物的顾客，张业文和同事还需要给客人测量体温，如果出现体温异常的情况，再了解情况是否从“疫区”过来，“公司交代该报警的就要报警”。
Zhang Yiwen, the head of a retail drugstore in Hangzhou, returned to his hometown during the Lunar New Year. As a store manager, he stayed at the store every day except for the time he needed to pick up the goods.
“还好，我们目前没有碰到过这方面的事情”，已经连续工作近半个月的张业文略显侥幸。
"Fortunately, we have not encountered this kind of thing," Zhang Yiwen has been working for nearly half a month.
“国家不是说有吗？怎么你们都没有的？我要投诉你们！”疫情影响下，药店承载了太多的情绪。
"The country does not say have? How do you all have? I want to complain you!" Under the influence of the epidemic, drugstores carry too much emotion.
27岁的谭勇是张业文店里的一名药师，杭州本地人，过年期间主动到店里来值班。
Tan Yong, a 27-year-old pharmacist in Zhang Yiwen's shop, a native of Hangzhou, volunteered to come to the store for duty during the New Year.
2月1日早晨一开门，货架上的双黄连就被一些早早等候在外的人抢空，下午陆续有人来问口罩和双黄连，都只能怅然若失地离去。
As soon as the door opened on the morning of February 1, Shuanghuanglian on the shelf was snatched up by people waiting outside early. In the afternoon, someone came to ask for masks and Shuanghuanglian.
有顾客情绪比较激动，冲着谭勇嚷嚷，谭勇除了一次又一次解释脱销原因，别无他法，非常无奈。
There are customers more excited, shouted at Tan Yong, Tan Yong in addition to explaining the reasons for selling, there is no other way, very helpless.
在杭州刚发现人员确诊的时候，居民就比较恐慌，口罩、消毒液很快被抢购一空，张业文他们工作的店，也有两三天时间的脱销。
When people were first diagnosed in Hangzhou, residents panicked, masks and disinfectants were quickly snapped up, and Zhang's shop was out of stock for two or three days.
语气不好、肢体冲突这些店员们都遇到过，有的时候还被顾客骂的哭笑不得，“你们是不是将口罩藏起来了，准备抬高价？”，有经验的药师还好，店里有些营业员是刚毕业没多久的小姑娘，工作繁忙，心理压力也很大，遇到这类顾客，受了不少委屈。
Some of the salespeople in the shop are young girls who have just graduated from the store and have a lot of psychological pressure. They have been having a lot of problems with these customers.
不久前，谭勇在湖北一家药店工作的同学确诊了，他不敢将这个消息告诉父母，只是在工作群里提醒同事们，加强防护。
Not long ago, Tan Yong, who worked in a drug store in Hubei Province, was diagnosed. He was afraid to tell his parents the news.
特殊时期，交通也不便，去医院看病可能意味着危险，药店的存在就尤为重要，总有人为了些特定的药，走遍城区的药房，店长张业文还在坚守，谭勇也想继续留下来。
Special times, transport is not convenient, to go to the hospital may mean danger, the existence of pharmacies is particularly important, there is always some specific drugs, walk around the city pharmacies, store director Zhang Yiwen is still adhering to, Tan Yong also want to stay.
“尽量不说，尽量不说坏的，尽量说好的。
Try not to say it, not to say it badly, but to say it well.
”张业文到家以后，妻子明显有些焦虑。
"When Zhang arrived home, her wife was visibly worried.
“你说要是被感染的人去你们那里买药怎么办呀！”妻子的发问让张业文不知道该怎么回答，他只能笑着讲，不会的，今天没事。
"You said if the infected people go to you to buy medicine ah!" His wife asked Zhang Yiwen do not know how to answer, he can only laugh to say, no, today is nothing.
“不怕一万，就怕万一...”，张业文无声地走进卫生间，洗手，换衣服，消毒，他实在不想让妻子担心。
"Not afraid of 10, 000, just in case..." Zhang Yiwen went silently into the bathroom, wash his hands, change clothes, disinfect, he really did not want to worry his wife.
每天下班回家，谭勇的父母都会问他店里的情况，有没有遇见咳嗽发烧的人，“基本上店里的人回家都会被问，我们一般就说，不多啊”，谭勇一直避免和父母说太多有关工作的事情，因为他们会去找破绽，终究还是担心。
Every day, Tan Yong's parents would ask him about the store, if he had a cough or a fever. "Basically everyone in the store would be asked to come home and we'd say, 'Not much,'" Tan Yong avoided telling his parents too much about the job because they would look for flaws and worry.
“尽量说好的，那么多人都在担心，还不如就自己一个人担心“，张业文他们在这个春节上班期间，都很默契地践行这个方法。
"Try to say, so many people are worried, rather than on their own." Zhang Yiwen they work this Spring Festival, they are very tacit practice this method.
2020年这个特殊的春节，在新冠病毒肺炎阴霾的笼罩下，城市的节奏被打乱，有恐慌，有愤怒，有无助，有失望，但仓皇之下，仍有温情不断。
The 2020 special Spring Festival, shrouded in the haze of the New Crown Virus Pneumonia, has disrupted the city's rhythm of panic, anger, helplessness and despair, but under the rush there is still warmth.
全民救援的宏大叙事背后，在我们身边，有这样一群药店人冲在一线，医生在救，他们在防，高度紧张，身心疲惫，都不过是平凡人，在沉默的世界里，张开双臂，没有人愿意冒着生命危险赚钱，只不过是选择默默活成英雄的样子，守护好一方百姓的健康。
Behind the grand narrative of rescue for all, around us, there is such a group of pharmacists rushed in front of us, doctors in the rescue, they are on guard, high tension, physical and mental fatigue, are just ordinary people, in the silent world, open arms, no one would risk their lives to make money, just choose to live quietly into a hero, to protect the health of one side of the people.
2永不打烊的哨点药店人可能从没想到，坚持日常营业也能成为一件值得赞赏的事，但目前确是如此，沿街看去，店铺门大多紧闭，药店很有可能是少有的还为居民提供服务的商业场所，哪怕是疫情最严重的武汉，开门营业药店仍有4084家，达到了日常供应的85%，市民基本上可以就近买到日常药品。
It may never have occurred to drugstore owners that sticking to their daily business could be a laudable thing, but for now, along the street, the doors are mostly closed, and pharmacies are probably the few commercial places to serve residents. Even Wuhan, the worst hit, has 4,084 open pharmacies, representing 85% of the daily supply.
举国抗疫，药店人有着责无旁贷的使命感，凭借社区网络覆盖的优势，零售药店发挥了疫情早期检测作用，成为除医院之外，抗击疫情的重要阵地。
With the advantages of community network coverage, retail pharmacies play an important role in the early detection of epidemic diseases, and become an important position to fight the epidemic in addition to hospitals.
2月初始，多地主管部门密集出台了零售药店退烧药、止咳药实名认证且上报销售情况相关政策，市民在购买相关药物时需在药店进行实名登记并填写信息，药店工作人员还会主动为进店的顾客量体温，对体温异常的顾客，督促、劝导其到医疗机构及时就诊，一旦发现疑似度较高的感染人员立即报告。
At the beginning of February, the competent departments in many areas issued policies on the registration and reporting of real names of antipyretics and cough medicines in retail pharmacies. The public are required to register and fill in information at pharmacies when purchasing the relevant drugs.
这些基础性工作，成为保障疫情不往外扩散的坚实屏障，为抗击疫情建起一道重要的哨卡。
These basic efforts have served as a solid barrier to the spread of the epidemic and an important checkpoint in the fight against it.
正如浙江省药监局局长说：浙江全省两万多家药店就是两万多家哨点，多一道筛查关，就加一层安全网。
As Zhejiang Pharmaceutical Supervision Bureau said: Zhejiang Province more than 20,000 pharmacies are more than 20, 000 sentinel points, more than one screening clearance, add a safety net.
浙江省药店人的行动，是全中国所有默默奉献着的药店同行的一个缩影。
Zhejiang drugstore people's action, is the entire China silently dedicated pharmacy colleagues epitomize.
疫情来势汹汹，迅速蔓延，致使全中国上下都陷入医疗物资紧缺的情况中，抗疫一线的医疗机构频频呼救，物资告急，牵动所有人的心，药店人在这一刻亦不甘落后，及所能及，全行业筹集物资送往疫区，为抗疫贡献坚实的力量。
The epidemic is raging and spreading so rapidly that the whole of China is suffering from a shortage of medical supplies. Medical institutions on the front line of the epidemic are constantly calling for help and supplies are in urgent need, affecting the hearts of all.
大连锁筹集物资，支援一线，一些小连锁、单体药店，虽然能力有限，也增加了人手，坚持24小时营业和30分钟送药上门，启动“送药上门安心达”服务，成为永不打烊的哨点，全方位保障群众的日常用药。
Some small chain stores and single pharmacies, though with limited capacity, have increased their staff and maintained a 24-hour operation and 30-minute delivery of medicines. They have launched the "Door-to-Door Safe" service, which has become an open-door sentinel to ensure the daily use of medicines by the public.
3致敬百万哨兵目前，全国有40多万家药店，就是40多万个哨点，上百万名药店人就是上百万名“哨兵”，他们日夜值守，履职尽责，害怕、劳累、压力，都不曾使他们退缩，无关乎英雄主义，只不过是作为平凡人，在平凡的岗位上，做着非常值得令人尊重的工作。
Tribute to the Million Sentinels At present, there are more than 400,000 pharmacies in the country, more than 400,000 posts, and millions of pharmacists are millions of "sentinels" who are on duty day and night, performing their duties, afraid, tired and stressed, and who do nothing less than ordinary people doing respectable work in ordinary jobs.
针对药店人在抗疫行动中做出的奉献和牺牲，康恩贝金笛发起一场呼吁医药行业和全社会关注、尊重药店人的公益行动——“康恩贝金笛·抗疫哨兵——药店人专项保障行动”，通过为新冠肺炎疫情防控期间值守一线的药店店员代表提供保险保障，希望能呼吁到更多的医药及流通企业一起加入到关爱药店人的行列，给予百万哨兵后方支持，为战友加油、助力。
In response to the dedication and sacrifices of pharmacists in the fight against the epidemic, Combe Kinder launched a campaign to appeal to the medical industry and the community to respect the public interest of drugstore workers - "Kangembangdi Guinness Sentinel - Pharmacist Specific Safeguard Action" by calling on more pharmaceutical and distribution companies to join the ranks of care pharmacists, provide back-up support to millions of sentinels, and help their comrades.
“疫情防控是一场人民战争。
"The epidemic prevention and control is a people's war.
医院是火线，我们医药企业是兵工厂，药店是哨卡，而百万店员就是哨兵，我们都是同一条战线上的战友，守护健康、打赢疫情防控战是我们共同的使命与责任。
Hospitals are the lines of fire, our pharmaceutical companies are factories, pharmacies are posts, and millions of clerks are sentinels. We are all comrades in arms on the same front. It is our common mission and responsibility to protect health and win the battle against the epidemic.
”中国非处方药物协会会长、康恩贝集团董事长胡季强说，“希望全行业一起行动起来，药店人守护前线，我们守护你们”。
"I hope the whole industry will act together, pharmacists will guard the front line and we will watch over you," said Hu Jiqiang, president of the China Association of Non-Prescription Drugs and chairman of the Connembe Group.
4药店人不后退2019年夏天，谭勇看了一部古装国产剧，他非常喜欢其中一个情节，把后退当作战术的落魄子弟，在同僚生死未卜，城中百姓性命攸关的时刻，在望楼上用激昂的鼓声吼出“不退”。
4.Pharmacists do not retreat 2019 summer, Tan Yong saw an ancient costume domestic drama, he liked one of the plot, back as a tactical outsider, in colleagues uncertain life, the life of the people in the city, shouting "do not retreat" with passionate drums upstairs.
他自始至终不是什么英雄，只不过在那一刻，用他的良知做出了选择。
He was not a hero from start to finish, but at that moment, he made a choice with his conscience.
这个世上本来就没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
There is no such thing as a hero in the world. There are only mortals who step forward.
与疫情的战斗仍在继续，尽管工作繁重又有感染危险，但更多的药店人都选择正常营业，24小时坚守，凭着今时今日的担当与责任，选择值守岗位，从不退缩。
The battle against the epidemic continues, and despite the magnitude of the work and the risk of infection, more drugstores are opting to operate normally, 24 hours a day, and with their responsibilities and responsibilities today, they are on duty and do not shrink.
Play▲观看视频，致敬中国药店的百万“哨兵”（应受访者要求，张业文、谭勇均为化名）（专题）。
Watch a video honoring millions of "sentinels" at Chinese pharmacies (Zhang Yiwen and Tan Yong, alias alias, at the request of respondents) (Special Topic).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不退缩，有时候和英雄无关。
Don't shrink. Sometimes it's not about heroes.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "不退缩，有时候和英雄无关";。
var msg _ title = & quot; never flinched, and sometimes not at & quot; with hero.
var msg_desc = "这个世上本来就没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
