开往疫区的货车。
Goods vehicles bound for epidemic areas.
黄剑。
Yellow sword.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲一位货车司机在高速收费站接受体温测量全文共7042字，阅读大约需要16分钟。
A van driver took a temperature survey of 7,042 words at a toll booth, about 16 minutes to read.
重新踏上前往武汉的路程，他说，只要还能运，他都会在路上本文转载自南方人物周刊文|黄剑编辑|周建平新年钟声敲响时，李星正在高速公路上，驾驶卡车赶往湖北省孝感市。
Back on the road to Wuhan, he says, he'll be on the road as long as he's still in luck. This article was relayed by Ren Jianping Zhou Jianping New Year's bell as Li Xing drove his truck down the highway to Xiaogan City, Hubei Province.
一路上难见车影，偶尔遇见的，是和他一样的大货车。
It was hard to see a car along the way, but occasionally it was a big van like his.
车窗外一路漆黑，只有路过一些村庄、市镇时才有些许光亮。
Outside the car window it was dark, only passing through some villages and towns when there was some light.
往年此时绚烂的烟花，在这个寒冷的冬夜里，只是零星地绽放，让独行在公路上的李星，终于感受到一点过年的气氛。
Usually brilliant fireworks at this time of year, in this cold winter night, only sporadic blooming, so that the road alone Li Xing, finally feel a bit of New Year's atmosphere.
收音机里播着春节联欢晚会。
The Spring Festival Gala is on the radio.
李星听不出所以然，开始听抖音里的小视频：一些人欢歌笑语，与家人共度除夕；一些人痛哭失声，为家人的病痛而悲伤。
Li Xing couldn't understand why. He began to listen to small videos of people laughing and singing and spending New Year's Eve with their families. Some people cried bitterly and mourned the pain of their families.
他点开家人发来的微信语音，妻子和孩子们祝福他，“新年快乐，一路平安，注意保护自己。
His wife and children wished him happiness in the New Year, a safe journey, and protection.
”李星是一名货车司机，原本打算与家人一起过年，大年初三初四左右重新上路，继续自己的公路生涯。
Li Xing, a lorry driver, had planned to spend the New Year with his family and return to the road around the fourth day of the Lunar New Year.
突然严重的疫情，改变了他与亲人共度除夕的计划。
The sudden and severe outbreak changed his plans to spend New Year's Eve with his relatives.
在这个春节期间，被疫情改变假期计划的货车司机还有不少。
During the Spring Festival, there are still a lot of truck drivers who have been affected by the epidemic.
1突如其来的疫情“最难的时候，政府给了我们帮助，给钱治病，资助孩子上学。
The most difficult time was when the government helped us by giving money to cure diseases and helping children go to school.
1991年，淮南闹洪水，灾后当地政府帮助重建了房子。
In 1991, after the Huainan floods, the local government helped rebuild the house.
现在国家有难，我们也要回报。
Now the country in trouble, we have to pay back.
”2020年1月21日，李星运送最后一车货前往山东临沂，车上坐着他的儿子。
On January 21, 2020, Li Xing shipped his last carload to Linyi, Shandong Province, with his son in it.
孩子平时很难见到他，放假后吵着要跟父亲出车。
Children usually see him very difficult, after the vacation noisy want to travel with his father.
这趟货卸完，他可以在家待上足足一周，好好与妻子、孩子一块过年。
After this trip, he can stay at home for a full week and enjoy the New Year with his wife and children.
他家在临沂市临沭县石门镇大官庄村。
His family in Linyi Linyi County Shimen town big Guanzhuang village.
过去很多年里，他都与家人聚少离多，有时除夕也在外面。
Over the years, he has spent many years with his family, and sometimes New Year's Eve.
李星在家里待了两天，村子里越来越热闹，红纸、灯笼、烟花、喧闹声、鞭炮声……装点着这座北方村庄。
Li Xing at home for two days, the village more and more lively, red paper, lanterns, fireworks, noise, firecrackers... decorated the northern village.
到了1月24日大年三十，这份热闹却像突然染了病，渐渐变得有气无力。
By January 24, the New Year's Eve, this lively but like a sudden illness, gradually become weak.
1月23日晚，李星的手机里突然充斥着关于武汉的新闻。
On the night of January 23, Li Xing's cell phone suddenly filled with news about Wuhan.
微信、抖音、今日头条……几乎所有的网络平台上，人们都在谈论武汉疫情。
Micromail, chatter, today's headlines... Almost all the online platforms, people are talking about the Wuhan epidemic.
23日凌晨两点，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部宣布：今日10时起，武汉公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Wuhan Public Transportation, Subway, Ferry and Long-distance Passenger Transport have been suspended since 10: 00 a.m., and the Han corridor at airports and railway stations has been temporarily closed, the command for the prevention and control of the infection with the new coronavirus in Wuhan was announced.
武汉交通封城，李星才察觉到湖北疫情很严重。
Wuhan traffic closure, Li Xing aware of the serious outbreak of Hubei.
他从手机里得知湖北急缺医疗物资，有些担忧，坐不住。
He learned from his mobile phone that Hubei was in urgent need of medical supplies.
次日大年三十早晨起床，他一直在货运平台运满满上刷订单，看有没有从临沂市周边运往湖北的货。
The next morning, when he got up, he always loaded his order with brushes on the freight platform to see if there were any goods shipped from Linyi city to Hubei.
到了中午，他看到一条订单，需要运一批医疗物资前往湖北孝感市，立即接了单。
At noon, he saw an order, a shipment of medical supplies to Hubei Xiaogan City, immediately received a single.
他告诉妻子，自己不在家过除夕了，要运货去湖北疫区。
He told his wife that he was not at home on New Year's Eve and wanted to transport the goods to the Hubei epidemic area.
妻子不同意，希望他能够在家好好过年，哪都不要去，更不要说前往疫区，怕他感染病毒。
Wife disagrees, hope he can have a good New Year at home, do not go anywhere, not to mention to epidemic areas, afraid of his infection with the virus.
李星坚持要走。
Li Xing insists on going.
“疫情那么严重，你说咱没有钱，可以在精神上支援，出一份自己的力。
"The epidemic is so serious that you say we have no money, we can support ourselves spiritually and do our part.
到那边要是被传染上，就做特别隔离，一切后果我也考虑过，我自愿。
If they get infected, they're gonna be quarantined. I've considered all the consequences. I volunteered.
”他硬着头皮，和一名同村好友开车离开了村子，心里有一些歉疚，“也挺难受的，没陪陪家里人，在家里过个年。
"He bravely drove away from the village with a buddy from his village, feeling a little guilty.
”这一天，在路上的还有货车司机曹师傅。
On the way there was Master Cao, a lorry driver.
已经年过50的曹师傅，正拉着一车医疗物资，从温州前往武汉。
Cao Shifu, who was over 50 years old, was pulling a load of medical supplies from Wenzhou to Wuhan.
往年这个时候，他也常常在外跑车。
At this time of the year, he used to go out in sports cars.
儿女都不在家，老家的房子早卖掉了，对他来说，在家和在路上，没有区别。
The children were not at home, the old house had been sold, for him, at home and on the road, there is no difference.
他的儿子是军人，正在武汉，劝他不要前往疫区。
His son, a soldier, was in Wuhan and advised him not to go to the affected areas.
但他坚决要去。
But he was determined to go.
他年轻时做生意赚了点钱，沾上赌博，欠了不少债，和妻子也离了婚，自己带着两个孩子，日子困难。
He made a little money in business as a young man, got into gambling, got into debt, got divorced from his wife, and had two children of his own.
“最难的时候，政府给了我们帮助，给钱治病，资助孩子上学。
"When the chips are down, the government gives us help, gives money to cure illnesses and helps children go to school.
1991年，淮南闹洪水，灾后当地政府帮助重建了房子。
In 1991, after the Huainan floods, the local government helped rebuild the house.
现在国家有难，我们也要回报。
Now the country in trouble, we have to pay back.
”他从1月22日便开始往武汉跑，当天，他运送一批医疗设备到了武汉。
He started his run on January 22 in Wuhan, where he transported a consignment of medical equipment.
随后几天，他一直往返于湖北与江浙地区之间，运送医疗物资到武汉，连续六趟，不曾停歇。
He spent the next few days commuting between Hubei and Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces, carrying medical supplies to Wuhan six times without stopping.
几天以后，安徽铜陵司机王辉也出发了。
A few days later, Anhui Tongling driver Wang Hui also set out.
1月27日，他在家里过年，接到公司的电话，说有一批物资需要从安徽滁州运往武汉，愿意去的话，公司给予一定的奖励或者补贴。
On January 27, he spent the New Year at home, received a phone call from the company, said that a lot of materials from Chuzhou, Anhui Province to Wuhan, if willing to go, the company will give a certain reward or subsidies.
“现在气氛比较紧张。
"The atmosphere is tense now.
我老家这边，亲朋好友也都不互相串门拜年。
My family and friends do not visit each other in New Year's Eve.
但我觉得我应该去武汉，并不是冲着奖励，钱没有安全重要。
But I think I should go to Wuhan, not for reward, money is not important for security.
”王辉在27日连夜开车去了滁州。
Wang Hui drove to Chuzhou overnight on the 27th.
李星2开往疫区的货车网络世界里的武汉，像是处在另外一个世界，令他不忍卒听。
Li Xing 2 to the affected areas of the truck network in the world of Wuhan, as if in a different world, he could not bear to hear.
大年三十午后，李星吃过饭，辞别家人，驾车前往临沂的发货地点。
After dinner, Li Xing took leave of his family and drove to Linyi's delivery point in the afternoon of the New Year.
要运送的是一批防护面罩、防护靴和口罩，由一家公司捐赠，接受单位分别是北京和湖北孝感的医院。
The deliveries were of protective masks, boots and masks, donated by a company and received by hospitals in Beijing and Hubei respectively.
李星戴着口罩，用酒精给自己的货车消毒，然后才让捐赠公司装货。
Li Xing wears a mask and disinfects his truck with alcohol before letting the donor company load it.
装完已是下午5点。
It's 5: 00 p.m. when the load is complete.
捐赠方提醒他，这批物资特别紧急，必须在当天夜里送达。
The donor reminded him that the shipment was particularly urgent and had to be delivered the same night.
李星吃过快餐，登上驾驶室，发车，开往疫区。
Li Xing ate fast food, boarded the cab, set off, headed for the epidemic area.
几个小时后，他在郑州下了高速，找到在路口等他的一辆货车。
A few hours later, he got off the highway in Zhengzhou and found a truck waiting for him at the intersection.
这是北京接收方派来的车，把李星运来的防护面罩和防护靴送往北京。
This is a car from Beijing receiving party, send Li Xingyun's protective mask and boots to Beijing.
李星转交完货物之后，继续上路，载着口罩前往湖北孝感。
After handing over the goods, Li Xing continued his journey, carrying a mask to Hubei filial piety.
高速公路上空荡荡的，偶尔有灯光闪过，也都是对向车道北上的汽车。
The freeway was empty, with occasional lights flashing and cars heading north toward the driveway.
他一路畅通，高速行驶，不用担心如往日那般车道拥堵。
He drove smoothly and at a high speed, not worrying about the traffic jams of the old days.
晚上8点过后，收音机开始播放春节联欢晚会，终于有点过年的感觉。
After 8 pm, the radio began to broadcast the Spring Festival Gala, finally a bit of the feeling of the New Year.
他听了一段时间，开始听同村好友播放的视频。
After listening for a while, he began to listen to videos played by his friends in the village.
这些视频大多是武汉网友上传的，他越听，情绪越激动。
Most of these videos were uploaded by Wuhan netizens. The more he listened, the more excited he became.
网络世界里的武汉，像是处在另外一个世界，令他不忍卒听。
Wuhan in the network world, as if in a different world, so that he can not bear to listen.
同伴陪他聊了一会儿天，渐渐睡着了。
His companion chattered with him for a while and gradually fell asleep.
路上一片寂静，除了货车的轰鸣声。
The road was quiet except for the roar of the lorry.
公路两侧的反光告示牌在夜色中无声地掠过。
Reflective signboards on both sides of the road passed noiselessly through the night.
“路上看不到车，没有参照、刺激，很容易放松警惕，等你发现前面有辆车，刹车都可能来不及。
"You can't see a car on the road, there's no reference, no stimulation, it's easy to let your guard down, and when you see a car in front of you, the brakes may be too late.
”李星一路没有休息，在连续开了九个多小时、穿越八百二十多公里后，于1月25日大年初一凌晨2点20分，从孝感杨店镇下高速。
Li Xing did not rest all the way, driving for more than nine hours and crossing more than 820 kilometers, on January 25 at 2: 20 a.m. on the first day of the Lunar New Year.
交完四百多元过路费，从收费站出来，便有交警和医务人员过来，给他测量体温，一切正常。
After paying more than four hundred yuan in tolls, from the toll station, traffic police and medical personnel came over to take his temperature, everything is normal.
前方的道路已设置关卡，不能再往前走了。
The road ahead has been barricaded and no further progress can be made.
五分钟后，接收医院派来的义工赶到。
Five minutes later, volunteers from the hospital arrived.
“我戴着口罩在车里，除了签字、打开车厢门给他们卸货，没怎么跟他们近距离接触。
"I was in the car wearing a mask and didn't get very close to them except to sign and unload the car door.
”李星说自己一直很小心。
Li Xing said he had been very careful.
王辉比李星晚出发几天。
Wang Hui left a few days later than Li Xing.
1月28日，在滁州金禾实业公司装上消毒液，他便开车前往武汉。
January 28, Chuzhou Jinhe Industrial Co., loaded with disinfectant, he drove to Wuhan.
凌晨过后，一片片雪花开始扑到挡风玻璃，视线越来越差，天也越来越冷。
After the wee hours, flakes of snow began to fall on the windshield, the line of sight became worse and colder.
他不得不放慢了速度。
He had to slow down.
静穆的山间，只有他的车在动。
In the quiet mountain, only his car was moving.
在风雪中行驶了数百公里后，29日凌晨5点多，他到了武汉新洲区。
After driving for hundreds of kilometers in the snow, he arrived in Xinzhou district of Wuhan at 5: 00 a.m. on the 29th.
刚到收费站，便被交警拦住，查验体温和证件。
Arriving at the tollbooth, he was stopped by the traffic police to check his temperature and documents.
之后，守候在收费站附近的物资接收方开始过来跟他交接货物。
After that, the receiver waiting near the toll station began to hand over the goods to him.
和其他司机一样，交接完支援物资后，王辉在收费站掉头，空车开往南京，准备运送下一批去往武汉的物资。
Like the other drivers, after handing over the support materials, Wang Hui turned around at the toll booth and left empty for Nanjing to deliver the next batch of supplies to Wuhan.
在路上，他接到老家一位公务人员打来的电话。
On the way, he received a telephone call from an official in his hometown.
“他自称是铜陵市的一个什么书记，已经了解到我去了武汉，问我去干嘛，身体情况怎么样。
"He claimed to be a secretary in Tongling city and had already learned that I had gone to Wuhan and asked me what I was doing.
”3在路上“过年期间，我一直在路上，每天睡车上，吃泡面。
During the Spring Festival, I have been on the road, sleeping in the car every day and eating noodles.
”1月25日早晨8点，卸完货之后，李星在孝感收费站直接掉头，开回了临沭老家。
"January 25 at 8 a.m., after unloading goods, Li Xing in filial piety toll station directly turned around, driving back to his home in Shandong.
他想带点货回去，赚点路费贴补一下，但下不了高速，进不了城，有货单也没法接，何况几乎找不到从疫区发出的订单，只能开空车回去。
He wanted to take some goods home to earn some money to cover his trip, but he could not get off the highway, get into the city, have a bill of lading, and could hardly find an order from an epidemic area, so he drove back empty.
往年的春节前后，他常常也会在路上。
He used to be on the road before and after Spring Festival.
因为很多司机回家过年，运货的人少了，运费会比平时高一些。
Because many drivers go home to celebrate the New Year, fewer people carry goods, the freight costs will be higher than usual.
“年底一公里可以涨到两块六左右，到了春节期间，能涨到三四块，这样我就可以赚一些。
"By the end of the year one kilometer can go up to about two point six. During the Spring Festival it will go up to three or four so that I can make some money.
”李星介绍，到了夏天，运费就特别低，平均每公里只有两元左右。
In the summer, freight costs are particularly low, averaging just about two yuan per kilometer, Li said.
“一公里烧油要一块钱，再加上过路费，几乎没有什么赚头。
"A kilo of oil costs a dollar, plus tolls, and there's very little to make.
如果是再小一点的货车，那就是白忙活了。
If it was a smaller truck, it would be a waste of time.
从信息到物流，里面吃的、扣的太多，他们还要赚一些。
From information to logistics, they eat too much, buckle too much, they still have to earn some.
”李星抱怨道。
"complained Li Xing.
34岁的李星已经在路上开了十年货车，如今已经是三个孩子的父亲，父母也年过花甲，整个家庭都靠他开车维持。
Li Xing, 34, has driven a van for 10 years and is now the father of three. His parents are over age and the whole family depends on him to drive.
他从学校出来便进了工厂打工，但收入微薄，后来又去海南修了两年码头，几乎都是“月光”。
He came out of school to work in the factory, but the income is meagre, and then went to Hainan to build two years of wharf, almost all "moonlight."
他觉得没出路，回老家考了驾照，开始帮别人开货车。
Feeling no way out, he returned home with his driver's license and began to drive other people's trucks.
2019年春节刚过，他贷款买了一辆二手货车，自己成了车主。
Just after the Spring Festival in 2019, he took out a loan to buy a used car and became the owner of it.
他没钱，从银行贷了两笔钱，总共11万元。
He had no money. He borrowed two money from the bank, a total of 110,000 yuan.
“一笔每个月还两千多，另一笔先还利息，每个月五百多。
"" More than two thousand a month, plus interest on the other, more than five hundred a month.
”李星称自己每天要挣四五百元，才能偿还贷款，养活家人。
Mr. Li says he needs to earn four or five hundred yuan a day to repay his loans and support his family.
对李星来说，春节前后是他一年中最赚钱的时候。
For Li Xing, the Spring Festival is the most profitable time of the year.
但是今年春节，他没法赚钱了。
But this Spring Festival, he can not make money.
尽管运送医疗物资前往疫区，高速公路免费，但是回程没有货运，他能赚的不多。
Although the highway is free of charge for transporting medical supplies to the affected areas, there is no freight on the return trip and he can earn very little.
不过，在疫情暴发的这个特殊时期，李星愿意接受这样的状况。
However, Li is willing to accept the situation at this particular time of the outbreak.
“我空车开回来，来回差不多两千公里，加上过路费和油费，没怎么赚钱，就当是尽一份力了。
"I drove back empty, almost two thousand kilometers back and forth, and with the tolls and the gas, I didn't make much money and thought I was doing my part.
”李星空车回去，收费站也没给他免过路费，回到临沭家里，已经是晚上。
Li Xing-kong came back to his home in the evening without giving him a free ride to the tollbooth.
他在家休息了一天。
He rested at home all day.
1月26日下午，他又接了一趟运送消毒液至孝感的活儿，匆匆开到江苏省阜宁县上货，之后连夜赶往湖北。
January 26 afternoon, he received a delivery of disinfectant to filial duty, rushed to FuNing County, Jiangsu Province goods, and then rushed to Hubei overnight.
李星在风雪中开了九个小时，直到1月27日凌晨两点半，在孝感杨店镇高速公路收费站，把消毒液交给前来提货的接收方，之后又一次空车掉头开往老家临沭。
Li Xing drove in the snow for nine hours until 2: 30 in the morning of Jan. 27 and handed the disinfectant to the receivers who had come to pick up the goods at the highway tollstation in Xiaoyangdian Township.
前往疫区时，他连夜冒雪开车，一路没有停歇，回程时已疲惫不堪，扛不住了，在信阳高速服务区停车，饱饱睡了一顿，才再次往老家开去。
He drove through the night driving through the snow, exhausted and unable to carry his load, stopped at the Xinyang expressway service area and slept soundly until he drove home again.
1月28日傍晚，他沿着京沪高速行驶到临沂地界，准备在郯城红花埠收费站下高速，但这座收费站已经站满了交警和医务人员。
On the evening of January 28, he drove along the Beijing-Shanghai expressway to Linyi, preparing to get off the highway at the Tan-cheng red-flower port toll station, which is already full of traffic police and medical personnel.
工作人员给他测了体温，登记了他的证件和出车信息，知道他从湖北过来，让他掉头。
The staff took his temperature, checked out his papers and trip information, knew he was coming from Hubei and asked him to turn around.
“我体温36度多，但郯城交警不让我下，我只能重新上高速，到了下一个收费站，交警又不让我下，最后我到了临沂的罗庄收费站，才下了高速。
"I had a temperature of more than 36 degrees, but Tancheng traffic police refused to let me down, I had to get back on the highway, to the next toll station, traffic police refused to let me down, finally I arrived in Linyi Luozhuang toll station, only to get off the highway.
”李星介绍。
"said Li Xing.
他没想到仅仅离开家不到两天，形势又发生了变化。
He hadn't thought that the situation had changed less than two days after he left home.
从武汉空车开往南京的时候，王辉也被交警拦住了。
From Wuhan empty car to Nanjing, Wang Hui was also stopped by traffic police.
第一次是从安徽进入江苏境内时，交警让他配合医务人员测量体温。
The first time he entered Jiangsu from Anhui Province, traffic police asked him to cooperate with medical staff to take temperature.
第二次是在南京下高速公路，他被拦下测体温，登记信息。
The second time he was taken off the Nanjing expressway, he was taken to have his temperature taken and registered.
“我体温36度5，但是只要是从武汉过来的，他们就不让下高速，不管体温是否正常。
"I have a temperature of 36 degrees 5, but as long as it's from Wuhan, they won't let it go down, no matter if it's normal or not.
我就跟他们说，我不是从武汉来的。
I told them I wasn't from Wuhan.
虽然是我做了好事，但不能留名。
For all my good deeds, I cannot leave my name.
”王辉介绍他的经历。
"Wang Hui shared his experience.
从南京下了高速之后，他在分公司稍作休整，当天便开车前往浙江，装载一批支援火神山医院的桌椅。
After he got off the highway from Nanjing, he took a break at the branch office and drove to Zhejiang the same day to load tables and chairs in support of the Mount Fire Hospital.
装货的时候，有装货工想到他的驾驶室拍段小视频，发在抖音上。
At the time of loading, a loader thought of a small video of his cab shooting on the chatter.
一些人便过来阻止，不让装货工靠近驾驶室，说这辆车是从武汉过来的。
Some people came to stop the loader from approaching the cab, saying that the car had come from Wuhan.
王辉看到这些，“心里有点微妙的感觉，但没有说啥。
Wang Hui saw this and said, "There is a subtle feeling in my heart, but nothing has been said.
”曹师傅在南京的时候，也有过类似的感觉。
"Similar feelings were experienced by Master Cao when he was in Nanjing.
1月25日，他从南京运送250箱口罩去武汉。
On January 25, he transported 250 cases of masks from Nanjing to Wuhan.
装货的时候，有工人说他从武汉过来，让别人别靠近他。
During the loading, one of the workers said that he had come from Wuhan and told others not to come near him.
他觉得对方说话的方式太难听，跟他们吵了起来。
He felt that the other person was speaking in such a bad way that he quarreled with them.
幸好旁人劝住，事态没有升级。
Fortunately, the situation did not escalate.
到了武汉交接货物时，他发现少了一箱口罩，打电话去发货公司，才发现吵架的工人故意藏了这箱口罩。
When he arrived at Wuhan to hand over the goods, he found a box of masks missing, called the shipping company, only to find that the quarreling workers deliberately hid this box of masks.
自疫情暴发，他一直在武汉与各地之间奔波。
Since the outbreak, he has been traveling between Wuhan and other places.
送完货后，晚上想去宾馆睡觉，但都被拒绝，只能回到车上睡。
After delivery, he wanted to go to the hotel to sleep at night, but he was refused, so he had to go back to sleep.
有时候，下车问人要一壶热水泡面，也会被拒绝。
Sometimes getting out of the car and asking for a pot of hot water can be turned down.
曹师傅觉得不是滋味。
Master Cao felt uncomfortable.
不过，也会遇到热心的人。
However, you will also meet warm-hearted people.
前些天，他在浙江的一家修理铺补胎，老板得知他运货去武汉，请他在家里吃饭。
A few days ago, he repaired tires in a repair shop in Zhejiang. The boss learned that he had shipped goods to Wuhan and invited him to dinner at home.
“过年期间，我一直在路上，每天睡车上，吃泡面。
During the Chinese New Year, I have been on the road, sleeping in the car every day, eating noodles.
”曹师傅十来天第一次吃上热乎正经的饭菜。
"For the first time in ten days, Master Cao began to eat serious food.
4隔离14天村长打来电话说，已经知道他去过湖北、刚下高速，让他不要回村里。
Four days of isolation The village chief called and said he knew he had been to Hubei, just off the highway, told him not to go back to the village.
1月28日晚上8点，天已经黑，李星下了高速，沿着沂河路往老家曹庄镇开去时，村长打来电话说，已经知道他去过湖北、刚下高速，让他不要回村里。
At 8 p.m. on January 28th, it was already dark. Li Xing got off the highway and was driving along Yihe Road to his hometown Cao Zhuang town.
他听到电话，有点懵。
He had no idea when he heard the phone.
“我什么事都没有，只是去湖北运货，都没有下高速，怎么就回不了家。
"I didn't do anything. I just went to Hubei to deliver the goods. I didn't get off the highway.
”他有些难以接受，但村长跟他说，这是政策，去过疫区，回来要自我隔离14天，或者待在家里，全家人一起隔离，或者去村里临时设置的隔离点。
He was somewhat difficult to accept, but the village chief told him that it was a policy to go to the affected areas and come back and isolate themselves for 14 days, or to stay at home, separate the whole family, or go to temporary quarantine points in the village.
“如果真感染了，在家隔离那不是害了家里人？”他选择去了村里的临时隔离点。
"If it was really infected, it wouldn't hurt the family to be isolated at home?" He chose to go to the temporary isolation point in the village.
晚上9点多，他到达位于沭河边的隔离点，这里离他的村庄四五里地。
At more than 9 p.m., he reached the isolation point on the Bu River, four or five miles from his village.
他眼前只有一间活动板房，搭建在河边上。
He had before him only a movable house, built on the bank of the river.
房子里有一张床和桌子，妻子已经提前给他准备好被褥。
There was a bed and table in the house, and his wife had prepared bedding for him in advance.
李星住的简易隔离房屋外的北风呼呼响着，屋内冷如冰窖。
Outside Li Xing's makeshift isolated house, the north wind was blowing and the room was cold as a cellar.
他有些生气，村里没有给他找个暖和点的地方。
He was a little angry that the village had not found him a warmer place.
“我本来没事，要是冻发烧了，回头他们来测体温怎么办？”他打电话向发货方抱怨，自己是为了支援疫区人民，运物资去湖北，最后却回不了家，只能在这样一个条件恶劣的地方待两周。
He called the shipper and complained that he was carrying supplies to Hubei province to support the people in the affected area, but he could not return home and could only stay in such a bad place for two weeks.
他不满隔离区的条件，也担忧自己未来两周都要窝在这个小屋里，干不了活。
He was dissatisfied with the conditions in the colony and worried that he would be confined to the hut for the next two weeks.
“我要养三个孩子，还要还车贷，每天开支至少300块，到5月份的时候还要还五万的贷款本金。
"I have three children and a car loan to pay back, at least $300 a day, and a principal of $50,000 by May.
”李星着急、忧虑，给运满满工作人员发了数条信息。
Li Xing worried and worried and sent several messages to the full crew.
当晚，运满满答应，隔离期间每天给他补贴200元。
He was promised a daily stipend of 200 yuan during the quarantine period.
不过，他依然不能平复心情，尤其是知道与他同样去了湖北的货车司机顾耀东，最后在条件更好的宾馆隔离。
Still, he couldn't calm down, especially knowing that Gu Yaodong, a lorry driver who had gone to Hubei with him, ended up in a better hotel.
他把货车里的被子拿到小屋，把自己裹得严严实实。
He took the quilt from the van to the hut and wrapped himself up in it.
第二天早上，他发现自己没被冻感冒，才开始接受现状。
The next morning, finding himself free from the cold, he began to accept the status quo.
在同一天晚上，顾耀东遭遇了与李星类似的境况。
On the same night, Gu suffered a similar situation as Li Xing.
1月28日下午，顾耀东和妻子唐紫月送完消毒液，从武汉返回，准备在常州下高速。
On the afternoon of January 28, Gu Yaodong and his wife, Tang Ziyue, returned from Wuhan to prepare for the Changzhou expressway.
他们家位于无锡西部，离常州高速出口较近。
They are located in the west of Wuxi, near Changzhou high-speed exports.
一天前，顾耀东看了网上关于武汉的视频，要去送货。
A day ago, Gu Yodong watched a video on the Internet about Wuhan to deliver goods.
唐紫月担心，要和他一起承担风险。
Tang Ziyue worried, want to take the risk together with him.
顾耀东夫妻进入常州邹区收费站，被交警要求下车测量体温，登记信息。
Gu Yaodong husband and wife enter Changzhou Zou District toll station, was asked by traffic police to get out of the car temperature, registration information.
二人体温正常，也没有症状。
They had normal body temperature and no symptoms.
登记完之后，交警得知他们是从武汉过来的，便要求他们前往当地政府指定的隔离点，或者回到高速公路，前往下一个收费站。
After registration, the traffic police learned that they had come from Wuhan, and asked them to go to the local government designated isolation points, or to return to the highway to the next toll station.
“交警说，我们的信息已经上传，走到哪儿都会被追踪。
"Traffic police said our messages had been uploaded and would be tracked wherever we went.
”顾耀东希望去无锡试试，调转车头，重新上了高速。
Gu Yaodong wanted to try Wuxi, turn the car around and get back on the highway.
到了无锡收费站，下高速的车已经排成了长龙，交警和医务人员在收费关卡给排队者登记信息、测体温。
To Wuxi toll station, the next high-speed cars have been lined up, traffic police and medical personnel at toll gates to queue up information, temperature.
顾耀东有点担心回不了家，把车停在长龙里，排着队。
Gu Yaodong was a little worried that he would not be able to go home.
工作人员给他发送了一份《疫情防控告知书》，由无锡疫情防控应急指挥部下达，上面写道：“从1月26日起，凡来锡人员在两周内有湖北地区旅行史……必须主动报告现场查验人员，服从配合现场查验人员进行体温检测。
From January 26 onwards, personnel of Lexi-Xi have had a travel history in Hubei province within two weeks... They must report the personnel on the spot and obey the person who cooperates with them in conducting a temperature test.
未发热的，一律由现场工作组统一安置到集中医学观察所或居住地进行14天医学观察；发热的，一律由120专车转送至指定医疗机构发热门诊留验筛查。
Those who did not have fever were uniformly placed by the on-site working group for 14 days of medical observation at a centralized medical observation post or residence; those with fever were transferred to designated medical institutions for medical check-up in a fever clinic.
”快一个小时过去，轮到顾耀东夫妇，登记完信息，体温正常，交警让他们去观察所隔离14天。
Nearly an hour later, it was Gu and Yodong's turn to check in the information and get their temperature right, and the traffic police sent them to the observation post for 14 days.
顾耀东解释：“我们是运送医疗物资去武汉的司机，就在高速路口卸货，没进城，回来还要去支援疫区。
"We were the driver of the medical supplies to Wuhan, unloaded the goods at the highway junction, did not enter the city, and returned to support the epidemic area," Gu explained.
”他希望交警让他继续运货，希望自己不要被隔离。
"He wanted the traffic police to keep him moving, hoping he wouldn't be quarantined.
交警告诉他，他们已经“向上面反映情况”，让他在车上等着。
Traffic police told him they had "alerted him to the situation" and told him to wait in the car.
在他前面，已有几名去过武汉的货车司机被隔离了。
In front of him, several truck drivers who had been to Wuhan had been quarantined.
十几分钟后，一名交警过来问他，能否回老家去。
A few minutes later, a traffic policeman asked him if he could go back to his hometown.
“老家我回不去啊，村里都封村了。
"I can't go back to my hometown. The village has been closed.
”顾耀东解释，自己住在无锡。
Gu explained that he lived in Wuxi.
交警说，会继续反映他的问题。
Traffic police said it would continue to reflect on his problems.
顾耀东给父亲打电话，让他帮忙照顾家里一岁的女儿。
Gu called his father and asked him to take care of his one-year-old daughter.
夫妻二人在车上睡了一夜。
The couple slept in the car all night.
在过去很多个夜晚，无数条路边，顾耀东都是这样睡在自己的车里。
For many of the past nights, Gu Yaodong has slept in his car on countless roadside.
第二天早晨，交警过来告诉他，进无锡，必须要隔离。
The next morning, traffic police came to tell him that entering Wuxi, must be isolated.
随后，交警把二人带到他们家附近的一家酒店隔离观察。
They were then taken by traffic police to a hotel near their home for observation.
比起李星居住的隔离板房，顾耀东夫妻在无锡的待遇要好不少。
Compared to Li Xing living in the isolation board room, Gu Yaodong husband and wife in Wuxi better treatment.
这里有热水、空调供应，餐点到了，会有人送来饭菜。
There's hot water, air conditioning, and when the meal arrives, someone will bring it.
“我问过饭钱的事，政府说先吃着，不用担心。
"I asked about the money for dinner, and the government says eat first, don't worry.
”他向南方人物周刊介绍，这座隔离宾馆如今已经满员。
He told People magazine in the South that the isolated hotel was now full.
运货平台让顾耀东不要担忧，每天会给他200元补贴。
The freight platform let Gu Yaodong not worry, will give him 200 yuan subsidy every day.
他慢慢接受了如今的状态。
He came to terms with his present condition.
每天上午和下午，医务人员都会来给他俩测体温，但他们哪儿都不能去，只能在酒店里玩玩手机、看看短视频、跟孩子视频聊天，打发时间。
Every morning and afternoon, the paramedics come to take their temperature, but they can't go anywhere except play cell phones, watch video clips, chat with kids and spend time at the hotel.
顾耀东1月31日，货车司机刘成成也被隔离观察了。
Gu Yaodong January 31, truck driver Liu Chengcheng was also quarantined.
不过，与李星和顾耀东不同，他在自己家里。
However, unlike Li Xing and Gu Yaodong, he was in his own home.
在此前一天，他和同事李杰从江苏金湖送了一车消毒液前往武汉。
The day before, he and colleague Li Jie sent a load of disinfectant from Jinhu, Jiangsu Province to Wuhan.
把李杰送回安徽老家后，他一个人开车回家。
After returning Li Jie to his hometown of Anhui, he drove home alone.
他是淮安市淮阴区古寨村人，90后，开货车已有两年。
He is Huaiyin Huaiyin District, Huaiyan, Huai village, 90 years after driving a truck has been two years.
他在淮安东高速公路收费站测了体温，登记了行车信息，回到家后，村干部和警察、医生就出现了，带他去镇卫生院拍CT、血检。
He took his temperature at the Huai'an East Expressway toll station, checked in his driving information, and when he got home, village officials, police and doctors showed up and took him to the town clinic for CT and blood tests.
结果显示一切正常。
It turned out to be normal.
回家后，医生背着消毒液喷洒器，把他家里的每个角落都喷了一遍。
Back home, the doctor sprayed every nook and cranny of his home with a disinfectant sprayer on his back.
警察给他拍了照片，让他不要出门，在家隔离观察14天。
The police took photographs of him and told him not to go out and stay in isolation for 14 days.
与他一起隔离的，包括家里的所有人。
He was separated from everyone else in the family.
每天上午和下午，警察和医生都会过来一次，给他和家人测体温，有时候还带一些生活必需品、食物。
Every morning and afternoon, the police and the doctor come here once a day to take his temperature and that of his family, sometimes with the necessities of life and food.
刘成成每天戴着口罩，窝在床上翻手机，到了饭点，母亲会把饭菜端进来，除了上卫生间，从不出屋门。
Liu Chengcheng wears a mask every day and turns over his cell phone in bed. At meal time, his mother brings in the food and never leaves the house except for the bathroom.
这样的状态，他并不排斥，“本身国家也有规定待在家里。
Such a state, he did not exclude, "own country also has the stipulation to stay at home.
”唯一让他有点难受的是，屋子里到处是刺鼻的消毒液气味。
The only thing that bothered him a little was the acrid odor of disinfectant that filled the room.
李杰和刘成成的货车抵达武汉泾河收费站交接货物5继续上路他说，不知道还可以运多少回，只要还能运，他都会在路上。
Li Jie and Liu Chengcheng's lorry arrived at Wuhan Jinghe toll booth to hand over the goods. He said he did not know how many more could be shipped, as long as there is luck, he will be on the road.
2月11日，王辉又开车去了安徽芜湖装载一批家电，他需要在第二天早晨到达武汉。
On Feb. 11, Wang Hui drove to Wuhu, Anhui Province to load a batch of household appliances. He needed to reach Wuhan the next morning.
自从1月27日离开家以后，他已经在路上跑了半个月，运了五批物资前往武汉。
Since leaving home on January 27, he has been on the road for half a month, carrying five shipments to Wuhan.
但2月3日左右开始，他运送货物越来越难了。
But from about February 3 onwards, it became increasingly difficult for him to deliver the goods.
随着疫情的发展，江苏、浙江等地已经开始限制去过武汉的货车下高速公路。
With the development of the epidemic, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and other places have begun to limit the number of trucks to Wuhan off the highway.
“现在很多地方要求有当地的户口或者房产证才让下高速，我是安徽的车，只能在安徽下。
"Many places now require a local account or property certificate to let the next high-speed, I am an Anhui car, can only under Anhui.
”王辉称，他和公司的几名司机，像是在打游击。
Mr. Wang said he and some of the company's drivers appeared to be engaged in guerrilla warfare.
这次从武汉回来之后，进入安徽境内，他在老家铜陵附近下了高速，换国道开往芜湖装货，“如果从武汉回来直接去武汉，下不了高速。
After returning from Wuhan, he entered Anhui province, where he got off the highway near his hometown of Tongling and headed for Wuhu to load it.
”在目前的形势下，像王辉、李星等人这样，自愿前往湖北等疫区的货车司机，并不是多数。
In the current situation, truckers like Wang Hui and Li Ying-ying, who volunteer to drive to stricken areas such as Hubei, are not the majority.
“很多人会有顾虑，也能理解，毕竟去湖北，有感染的风险。
"Many people will have misgivings and understand that going to Hubei, after all, is at risk of infection.
”王辉称。
"said Wang.
尽管运输日益困难，王辉的老板管江南还是鼓励部下，尽量往武汉运物资。
Despite the increasing difficulties in transportation, Wang Hui's boss still encouraged his subordinates to transport supplies to Wuhan as much as possible.
“我们出了一套激励方案，这段时间去疫区的司机，五百公里以内，一趟补贴五千元，超过五百公里的，每公里补十元，还有表彰信。
"We have an incentive scheme for drivers going to epidemic areas during that time, up to 5,000 yuan a trip, more than 500 kilometers, 10 yuan per kilometer, and commendation letters.
”管江南是安徽华燕物流有限公司的负责人。
Guan Jiangnan is the head of Anhui Huayuan Logistics Co. Ltd.
他介绍，当前疫区缺医疗物资，也缺蔬菜、粮油等生活物资，除了湖北，温州等地也遇到了类似的困境。
He said the epidemic area is short of medical supplies, vegetables, grain and oil, and other living materials, in addition to Hubei, Wenzhou and other places have encountered similar difficulties.
“愿意去的司机也不多。
"Not many drivers want to go either.
有的司机愿意去，但在农村老家出不来。
Some drivers would like to go, but can't get out of their hometown in the country.
现在我们又有两个驾驶员不愿意去了，他们之前想去，现在有些害怕。
Now we have two more drivers who don't want to go. They wanted to go before, and now they're a little scared.
”受到隔离观察的影响，以及一些地方对外地车的限制，管江南感觉货车司机越来越不够用。
Affected by the isolation, and restrictions on cars in some places, Mr Kannan feels that truck drivers are running out of supplies.
他的公司平时合作的货车有六百多辆，春节期间，他们统计，只有八十多辆车出门，愿意去武汉的，则是15辆。
His company usually cooperates with more than 600 trucks, during the Spring Festival, they statistics, only 80 cars out, willing to go to Wuhan, 15.
“现在我们的驾驶员把蔬菜运送到一些城区，有的当地老百姓不让我们外地车进去。
"Now our drivers transport vegetables to some parts of the city and some local people don't let us get out of here.
”管江南认为目前物流环境困难，需要一段时间的缓冲期。
Mr Guangnan thinks the current logistics environment is difficult and needs a buffer period.
2月11日晚，王辉在芜湖装完货后，驾驶他的货车，重新踏上了前往武汉的路程。
On the night of Feb. 11, Wang Hui finished loading the goods in Wuhu and drove his van back to Wuhan.
他说，不知道还可以运多少回，只要还能运，他都会在路上。
He said that he did not know how many more can be shipped, as long as the luck, he will be on the road.
（实习记者聂阳欣、梅寒、杜莉华、熊方萍对本文亦有贡献）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(Intern reporter Nie Yang Xin, Mei Han, Du Lihua, Xiong Fangping also contributed to this article) Picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
开往疫区的货车。
Goods vehicles bound for epidemic areas.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "开往疫区的货车";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with a lorry bound for an infected area.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
