钟南山：2月中下旬疫情或达峰值，武汉还未完全阻断人传人。
Zhong Nan Shan: Late February outbreak or peak, Wuhan has not completely blocked human-to-human transmission.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 健言。
The following article comes from good words.
Author 马肃平 崔慧莹。
Author Mashu PingCui Ying.
健言。
Good words.
“健言”关注我们每一个人赖以生存的食品、药品、医疗大健康话题，并带来最深度、最有价值的解读。
"Jianyu" focuses on the food, medicines, and health issues on which each of us depends, and brings the deepest and most valuable interpretations.
线下“健言沙龙”追求建设性想法，倡导跨界、多元、碰撞、共识的交流准则，务求新思维、新视野、新观点，立志打造中国食药健康领域最具影响力的青年智库。
In pursuit of constructive ideas, the "talkative salon" advocates cross-boundary, multi-faceted, collision and consensus exchange guidelines, seeking new ideas, perspectives and perspectives to create the most influential youth think tank in the field of Chinese medicine and health.
。
.
▲钟南山院士团队与武汉前方的广东医疗队ICU治疗团队开展远程视频会诊。
Zhong Nan Shan academician team and Wuhan in front of the Guangdong medical team ICU treatment team to conduct remote video consultation.
（南方周末记者 崔慧莹/图）全文共1002字，阅读大约需要2分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Cui Huiying / Picture) The full text is 1002 words. It takes about 2 minutes to read.
钟南山认为，即便峰值出现，也并不意味着拐点将至。
Even a peak doesn't mean an inflection point, says Mr Zhong.
随着务工人员返工潮的到来，可能还会出现另一个高峰。
With the arrival of migrant workers returning to work, there may be another peak.
但目前，各地在返工潮中采取了严格的检查和隔离措施，新的疫情高峰不太可能出现。
But strict inspections and quarantine measures are being taken across the country in the wake of the return movement, and a new peak is unlikely.
如能明确 “临床诊断病例”到底是什么，将确诊人群和正常人群完全区隔开，将对全国的疫情走势产生积极影响。
It would have a positive impact on the national trend if the "clinical diagnosis" were to be clearly identified, separating the entire population from the normal population.
“武汉地区的危重症患者病情更重，救治难度比SARS时期还要大，病死率更高。
"Wuhan area of critical patients more serious illness, more difficult to treat than the SARS period, higher mortality rate.
”钟南山坦言，这与初期病人重复互相感染有关，此外，武汉感染者基数巨大，使得医护人员无法在早期给予吸氧等治疗。
"Zhong admitted it was linked to repeated infections in earlier patients and that the huge base of Wuhan infections prevented doctors and nurses from taking oxygen and other treatments early on.
病情一拖再拖，等到终末期才转至ICU，病死率自然高。
Delaying until the end of the transition to the ICU naturally high mortality.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平 崔慧莹责任编辑 | 曹海东2020年2月17日下午，驰援武汉协和医院西院区重症监护病房（ICU）的广东医疗队ICU治疗团队，通过网络平台与后方团队进行视频会诊。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
中国工程院院士钟南山参与其中，并对疫情走势作出预判，“非常粗略地估算，除武汉以外，全国其他地区的疫情峰值或将出现在2月中下旬”。
Zhong Nan-shan, an academician from the Chinese Academy of Engineering, was involved and predicted that "the peak of the epidemic in the rest of the country, except Wuhan, may occur in the middle and second half of February," he said.
钟南山解释，即便峰值出现，也并不意味着拐点将至。
Even if a peak occurs, that doesn't mean an inflection point, Zhong explains.
随着务工人员返工潮的到来，可能还会出现另一个高峰。
With the arrival of migrant workers returning to work, there may be another peak.
但目前，各地在返工潮中采取了严格的检查和隔离措施，新的疫情高峰不太可能出现。
But strict inspections and quarantine measures are being taken across the country in the wake of the return movement, and a new peak is unlikely.
1 “武汉到现在还未完全阻断人传人”通过模型分析，结合最近中央对疫情的强化干预，湖北以外地区的新增病例已经连续13天下降。
"Wuhan has not completely blocked human-to-human transmission" Through model analysis, combined with the recent intensified intervention of the central authorities, the number of new cases outside Hubei has declined for 13 consecutive days.
武汉成为全国疫情形势最严峻的地区，截至2月16日24时，武汉的确诊人数和病死率均占全国总数的70%以上。
Wuhan has become the most serious epidemic situation in the country. As of 2400 hours on February 16, Wuhan had accounted for more than 70 percent of the country's confirmed cases and fatality rates.
“最大的问题是，武汉到现在还没有完全阻断人传人。
"The biggest problem is that Wuhan has not completely blocked human-to-human transmission.
”钟南山说。
"said Zhong Nan Shan.
2月12日，湖北全省新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，比前一日陡增近10倍，原因在于统计口径发生了变化——湖北将“临床诊断病例”纳入新增病例。
On February 12, 14,840 new cases of pneumonia were reported in Hubei province, a sharp increase of nearly 10-fold over the previous day.
相比确诊病例，这些“临床诊断病例”尚不具备病原学证据，但具备临床表现、肺炎影像学特征。
Compared with confirmed cases, these "clinical diagnosis cases" did not have the pathogenic evidence, but had the clinical manifestation, the pneumonia imaging characteristic.
钟南山认为，如能明确这部分“临床诊断病例”到底是什么，将确诊人群和正常人群完全区隔开，将对全国的疫情走势产生积极影响。
Zhong Nan Shan believes that if this part of the "clinical diagnosis case" is clear, will diagnose the population and the normal population completely separate, will have a positive impact on the national epidemic trend.
要想解决这个问题，钟南山认为有赖于两个检测：一是通过核酸试剂检测，将新冠肺炎患者和流感等其他呼吸道疾病患者区分开；二是提高核酸检测的精密度。
To solve the problem, Zhongnanshan believes it depends on two tests: the detection of nucleic acid reagents to distinguish patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia from other respiratory diseases, such as influenza; and improving the precision of nucleic acid testing.
目前，钟南山院士团队正在研发新冠病毒IgM抗体快速检测试剂，如能获批通过，将率先投放武汉，“把疑似或临床诊断病例明确下来，到底是不是新冠肺炎”。
The team is currently developing a rapid detection reagent for IgM antibody for the new crown virus, which, if approved, will be launched in Wuhan "to clarify whether the suspected or clinically diagnosed case is new crown pneumonia."
2“武汉危重症患者病情更重，病死率更高”随着轻症患者逐渐康复出院，担子落在了重症医学科的肩上。
"Wuhan critically ill patients more serious illness, higher mortality rate" As the light patients gradually recover and leave hospital, the burden fell on the shoulders of serious medical science.
目前，武汉重症新冠肺炎病例约占所有确诊病例和住院病例的18%。
Wuhan now accounts for about 18% of all confirmed cases and hospitalizations.
钟南山院士团队在武汉负责人、广州医科大学附属第一医院副院长张挪富告诉南方周末记者，自2月6日团队接手协和西院ICU，该病区的20张床位中，目前还没有患者拔管实现自主呼吸。
Zhang Nofu, deputy dean of the first hospital attached to Guangzhou Medical University and head of the Zhong Nan Shan Academician team told Southern Weekend that since February 6, the team has taken over the ICU in the Western Concorde Hospital.
新冠肺炎重症救治的主要困难在于病情有着不同的发展规律，随着危重症的发展，病毒会持续损伤肺部，包括对肺实质的损伤、肺的分泌黏液阻碍气道通畅等。
With the development of critical diseases, the virus will continue to damage the lungs, including the lung parenchyma damage, lung mucus secretion obstruction airway patency, etc.
“武汉地区的危重症患者病情更重，救治难度比SARS时期还要大，病死率更高。
"Wuhan area of critical patients more serious illness, more difficult to treat than the SARS period, higher mortality rate.
”钟南山坦言，这与初期病人重复互相感染有关，此外，武汉感染者基数巨大，使得医护人员无法在早期给予吸氧等治疗。
"Zhong admitted it was linked to repeated infections in earlier patients and that the huge base of Wuhan infections prevented doctors and nurses from taking oxygen and other treatments early on.
病情一拖再拖，等到终末期才转至ICU，病死率自然高。
Delaying until the end of the transition to the ICU naturally high mortality.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山：2月中下旬疫情或达峰值，武汉还未完全阻断人传人。
Zhong Nan Shan: Late February outbreak or peak, Wuhan has not completely blocked human-to-human transmission.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "钟南山：2月中下旬疫情或达峰值，武汉还未完全阻断人传人";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Zhong Nan Shan: At least as late as mid-February, when the epidemic or peak occurred, Wuhan hasn't completely interrupted human-to-human service.
var msg_desc = "▲ 钟南山院士团队与武汉前方的广东医疗队ICU治疗团队开展远程视频会诊。
Valar msg _ desc = & quot; Zhong Nan Shan's team conducted a long-distance video consultation with the Guangdong Medical Team's ICU treatment team ahead of Wuhan.
（南方周末记者 崔慧莹/图）全文共";。
(Southern Weekend reporter Cui Huiying / picture) Full text & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
