那些志愿“以命相托”的武汉司机。
Those who volunteer to "trust the fate" of Wuhan drivers.
张玥。
Mr Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月26日拍摄的武汉黄鹤楼和长江大桥（无人机照片）。
January 26 shooting of Wuhan Yellow Crane Tower and Yangtze River Bridge (UAV photos).
过去几天，在本地物资匮乏、外界驰援力量未到的状态下，武汉一度陷入困境。
Wuhan once ran into trouble in the past few days, when local supplies were scarce and outside help was lacking.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共4201字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 4201 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
他自己开车到华中科技大学同济医学院附属梨园医院，把40套防护服送到一位医生手里，但不小心误入了医院的隔离区。
He drove himself to the Pear Garden Hospital, an annex of Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology. He took 40 suits to a doctor, but accidentally slipped into the hospital's quarantine area.
在微信语音里，他说，“等这场病毒过后，我们有缘再见。
In his microphone, he said, "We'll see each other again when the virus is over.
”他每天到家以后，把一次性手套和口罩在门口烧掉，家里一直通风，进门时家人在房间里不出门，他找到最近的水源洗三次手，把衣服放在门外。
He burned disposable gloves and masks at the door every day after he got home, kept the house ventilated, and when he entered the house his family stayed inside the house.
“我现在跟孩子说话最少要隔着两米，还是背对着他们。
"Now I have to talk to my children at least two meters apart, or with my back to them.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 张玥责任编辑 | 顾策过去几天，在本地物资匮乏、外界驰援力量未到的状态下，武汉一度陷入困境。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce yesterday what happened to Wuhan, China's deputy director of responsibility and responsibility, at a time when local supplies and outside help had not arrived.
一股来自武汉本土的民间自救力量，自发组织成一支支庞大的志愿者队伍，为武汉医护人员保驾护航。
Wuhan from the local civil self-help force, self-organized into a huge contingent of volunteers, Wuhan medical staff escort.
1月26日，在政府组织介入后，奔走在街头扶助陌生人的，仍旧是类似的一群武汉人。
On January 26, following government intervention, a similar crowd of Wuhan people took to the streets to help strangers.
他们大多是武汉市民，平时互不相识，一夜之间成为朋友，敢以性命相托。
They are mostly Wuhan city people, peacetime do not know each other, overnight become friends, dare to trust with their lives.
1接送医务人员上下班金艳东生活工作在武汉，就职于一家投资公司。
1 to transport medical staff to and from work life and work in Wuhan, working in an investment company.
这些天，他组织起了一支二百多人的私家车主志愿者群。
These days, he organized a group of 200 private car owners volunteers.
事情的起点，是疫情刚暴发时，他无意中看到朋友圈有一个人说，有100箱口罩想运到武汉，但不知道怎么运进来。
At the beginning of the outbreak, he came across a friend who said that 100 cases of masks wanted to be transported to Wuhan, but did not know how to get in.
恰好朋友圈的另一个人，说手上有货车资源，可以解决运输。
Just another person in the circle of friends, said that there are truck resources on hand, can solve the transportation.
于是他为这两个朋友拉了个群。
So he formed a group for the two friends.
最初的这个三人群，很快扩大起来，人越来越多。
The first three groups soon expanded and grew in number.
“群扩散以后，我发现一个问题，信息被刷屏了，我什么都干不了。
"After the swarm spread, I found a problem. The message was blown and I couldn't do anything.
我想这不行，我得做个能解决的事，货车司机涉及公安、交管、运输这一块，我没这个资源，解决不了。
I don't think so. I've got to do something about it. The truck driver is involved in security, cross-management, transportation. I don't have the resources, I can't solve it.
”1月24日左右，武汉市的市民基本上都封在家里不出门了，而医生、护士、医院后勤这些医务工作者的上下班需求不好解决。
Around January 24, Wuhan residents were largely confined to their homes, while the commuting needs of medical workers such as doctors, nurses and hospital logistics were difficult to address.
他想，就接送他们上下班吧。
Take them to and from work, he thought.
恰好，他的表哥是一位出租车司机，他让表哥把自己拉入出租车司机群里，让医务人员把自己的出行信息、联系方式发给自己，自己再分发到出租车群里。
As it happened, his cousin, a taxi driver, told his cousin to pull himself into the group of taxi drivers and ask the medical staff to send him their travel information and contact details and distribute them to the taxi fleet.
但是群里的出租车司机没什么反应，反倒是一些私家车车主愿意做志愿司机。
But taxi drivers in the group did not respond. Instead, some private car owners were willing to volunteer as drivers.
他就专门拉了一个群，让医务工作者和私家车司机进群。
He dedicated a group to bringing in medical workers and private car drivers.
在这期间，他偶遇到自己前几年认识、近两三年又失去联系的朋友付超，还有其他志愿者推荐的文姐，聊起来很顺畅，就这么组成了一个小组织。
During this period, he came across the friends he had known a few years ago, lost touch with him in the past two or three years, and other volunteers recommended Wen Jie, chatted smoothly, thus forming a small organization.
一开始，他的做法是点对点联系，有医生把出行的需求告诉他，他再转发给司机们，最终把截图转给医生。
At first, he made point-to-point contact and was told by a doctor that he needed to travel, which he then forwarded to the drivers and eventually to the doctor.
但这样不好管理，武汉又太大。
But this is difficult to manage, Wuhan is too big.
他们开始分类建群，按照武汉的区域规划，把私家车司机分为汉口、汉阳、武昌。
They began to group, according to Wuhan's regional planning, private car drivers into Hankou, Hanyang, Wuchang.
再把医务工作者按照医院来划分。
Then divide the medical workers according to the hospital.
这样司机和医务工作者都分别有群，他们几个组织者做信息的传递工作。
Drivers and health workers are thus grouped together, with several of their organizers delivering information.
这时，他们遇到一位新的志愿者，提高了大家的效率。
By this time, they met a new volunteer, which improved everyone's efficiency.
新加入的管理者喜欢做石墨文档，可以通过这个软件在线编辑信息，让私家车司机录入自己的信息，同时让医务工作者在线编辑信息，包括姓名、电话、医院、住址、上下班时间。
Newly-added managers like to create graphite files, which allow them to edit information online, allowing private car drivers to enter their own information and for health workers to edit information online, including names, phone numbers, hospitals, addresses, and commuting hours.
组织者们有的负责统计，有的负责调度。
Some of the organizers are in charge of statistics, others are in charge of scheduling.
除夕夜里，他还在忙着跟武汉市第一人民医院工会的工作人员协调，那时候下班的医务人员集中一些，送回家的效率更高。
On New Year's Eve, he was still busy coordinating with the staff of the First People's Hospital of Wuhan, when medical staff were concentrated and sent home more efficiently.
2部分司机群已经解散在除夕前后，各类捐赠、求捐赠的帖子散布在朋友圈，也有很多类似于金艳东这样的自救组织公布自己的联系方式。
Some drivers have been disbanded around New Year's Eve. Donations and donations have been posted around the world of friends, and many self-help groups like Anita Jin have made public their contact details.
他说自己的手机差不多成了“话务机”，接到各种各样的电话，他们尽自己所能，解答电话另一边的问题。
He said his cell phone had become almost a "telephone," receiving all kinds of calls and doing what they could to answer questions on the other side.
对于自己召集的私家车主的防护问题，他们一方面提醒私家车司机戴好口罩，另一方面提醒医务工作者，出门的时候给司机师傅多带一个口罩。
On the one hand, they remind private car drivers to wear masks, and on the other hand, they remind medical workers to wear more than one mask to their drivers when they go out.
但实际上，口罩、护目镜这类用品远远不够，他听说医院的口罩也维持不了几天。
But in fact, masks, goggles and other such supplies are not enough, he heard that the hospital mask will not last a few days.
1月25日，大年初一晚上，他对南方周末记者说，“今天我们已经把司机群解散了一部分。
On January 25, he told Southern Weekend reporter on the night of January 25, "Today we have dissolved some of the drivers."
”他们也怕病毒的传播。
They also fear the spread of the virus.
在汉阳区，已经有三个私家车司机感染了。
In Hanyang district, three private car drivers have been infected.
此外，他们看到武汉市公安局发布的公告：自1月26日0时起，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理。
In addition, they saw the notice issued by the Wuhan Public Security Bureau that, from 0000 hours on January 26, motor vehicles would be banned in central urban areas, except for licensed supply vans, free transport buses and official vehicles.
他也收到了信息，“公安交管局通知的车号是禁行车，凡是未接到通知的车都是不禁行的，此次是负面清单管理。
He also received information that "the number of cars notified by the Public Security and Transportation Administration is prohibited, and anyone who is not notified is not allowed to do so, this time negative list management."
”这两个信息让他有些困惑，不知道能不能上街。
"These two messages puzzled him a little whether he would be able to go out into the street.
他了解到，政府已经成立了专门的车队解决医护人员出行的问题，他想把自己手上的私家车资源转入政府的车队中。
He understands that the government has set up a special fleet to deal with the problem of medical staff travelling, and he wants to transfer his private car resources to government convoys.
另外，他看到滴滴出行在武汉发了通知，免费为医务人员提供出行服务。
In addition, he saw drip travel in Wuhan issued a notice, free of charge for medical staff to provide travel services.
“我想我们以前也是私家车主，让大家去注册滴滴司机，编入他们的车队效率会更高。
"I think we used to be private car owners, let us register drip drivers, into their fleet will be more efficient.
”1月26日晚，有一位不愿透露姓名的爱心人士联系到他，请他送防护服，他就自己开车到华中科技大学同济医学院附属梨园医院，把40套防护服送到一位医生手里，但不小心误入了医院的隔离区。
On the night of January 26, he was contacted by a loving, anonymous person who asked him to deliver protective clothing. He drove himself to the Pear Garden Hospital, an annex of Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
在微信语音里，他说，“等这场病毒过后，我们有缘再见。
In his microphone, he said, "We'll see each other again when the virus is over.
”3不跟父母见面跟金艳东这样民间自发组织的力量相比，出租车司机胡然来自政府组织的“官方车队”。
Taxi drivers are recklessly drawn from official convoys organised by the government, compared to the power of non-governmental organizations such as Anita Kim.
1月26日0时起，武汉市中心城区私家车全面禁行以后，政府为各个社区分配了出租车，便于有需要的人们出行。
Since 0000 hours on January 26, private cars in central Wuhan city have been banned completely. Taxis have been allocated to various communities to facilitate the travel of people in need.
武昌区的司机胡然正是其中一员。
Wuchang District Drivers Hu Ran is one of them.
他说目前进入社区的出租车，主要是针对生活不便的社区居民，为他们买菜、买药。
He said taxis currently entering the community are aimed mainly at people living in hard-to-live neighbourhoods, buying vegetables and medicines for them.
如果有发热的情况，需要立刻向防疫中心报告，做好隔离措施，运送客人到医院。
If there is a fever, the need to immediately report to the epidemic prevention centre, isolation measures, transport guests to the hospital.
不过一般居民发热，首先还是拨打120救助。
However, the general population feverish, or dial 120 rescue first.
在路上，如果看到有出行需求的医务人员，他们也会无条件接送。
On the road, they also pick up medical staff when they see a need to travel.
这些社区里的车队每运送一次居民，就在车内所有地方用84消毒液和酒精消毒，司机们戴着医用防护口罩。
The convoys of these communities disinfect all parts of the vehicles with disinfectant 84 and alcohol every time residents are transported, and drivers wear medical masks.
几天前，他就跟家里说，武汉可能要限行，如果限行，出租车可能要做些公益性的事情，“我有心理准备，自愿报名的”。
A few days ago, he told his family that Wuhan might restrict travel and that if the restrictions were imposed, taxis might have to do something pro bono.
他估计，最早的通知应该是武汉市政府下发到交通运输局的相关部门，该部门再下发到每个出租车公司，出租车公司再以发消息、打电话的方式通知到每一位驾驶员，驾驶员的家庭再自行商量。
He estimated that the earliest notification should be sent by the Wuhan Municipal Government to the relevant departments of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which would then distribute it to each taxi company, which would then notify each driver by mail and telephone, and the driver's family would then discuss the matter among themselves.
胡然记得，他接到通知后的第二天一早，就报名了，应该是最早的一批。
Hu Ran remembered that he received the notification the next morning, signed up, should be the earliest batch.
家人当然担心他，他有两个孩子，跟父母住在一个小区。
His family was certainly worried about him. He had two children and lived in a small community with his parents.
接受这个任务以后，他不再让家里人出门了，生活必需品由他来买。
After accepting the assignment, he no longer allowed his family to go out. He bought the necessaries of life.
送到父母家的时候，就把东西放在门口，不进门，等他离开两小时以后，父母再开门取。
When he arrived at his parents' house, he left his things at the door and did not come in.
他的防护措施很多还是靠自己，比如家里原来囤积的一次性手套。
Many of his protective measures were self-contained, such as disposable gloves that had been hoarded at home.
他每天到家以后，把一次性手套和口罩在门口烧掉，家里一直通风，进门时家人在房间里不出门，他找到最近的水源洗三次手，把衣服放在门外。
He burns disposable gloves and masks at the door every day after he gets home, keeps the house ventilated, enters the house with his family inside, finds the nearest water source and washes his hands three times, leaving his clothes outside.
“我现在跟孩子说话最少要隔着两米，还是背对着他们。
"Now I have to talk to my children at least two meters apart, or with my back to them.
”他说，现在武汉街头基本上看不到机动车了，在跑的也是保障供应的车。
Wuhan, he said, now has few motor vehicles on the streets and is running cars that guarantee supplies.
每天出门时，小区里的车辆怎么停的，晚上回来时还是那样。
Every day on the way out, the community of vehicles how to stop, at night back when the same.
在南方周末记者加了微信后，他只说了一句话，“做武汉人该做的！”征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
After Southern Weekend reporter added a micro-letter, he just said, "Do what Wuhan people should do!" Collection of Southern Weekend is now open to all readers in the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些志愿“以命相托”的武汉司机。
Those who volunteer to "trust the fate" of Wuhan drivers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "那些志愿“以命相托”的武汉司机";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; who volunteered.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
