买票都实名制了，为何还借媒体找密切接触者？。
Buy tickets are real name system, why still use the media to find close contacts?
崔慧莹。
Cui Huiying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月28日，北京西站北二楼大厅，车站加强对工作人员的防护和对旅客的检测，及时对站内进行消毒，保障旅客生命安全。
January 28, Beijing West Station north of the lobby, the station to strengthen staff protection and passenger testing, timely disinfection station to ensure the safety of passengers.
（新华社 任超/图）全文共3559字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 3,559 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
媒体找人和实名制寻人是同步进行的，但实名制寻人需要很多手续——卫生部门并不掌握乘客信息，需将要求报送给省疾控中心，后者联系省联控联防机制单位，由他们负责寻找，最后再把相关信息反馈回地方。
Media searches are synchronized with real-name searches, which require a lot of formality - health authorities do not have passenger information and must report the request to the provincial CDC, which will contact the JMVP unit, which will then be responsible for the search and then return the relevant information to the local authorities.
对于“密切接触者”，内部规范文件只要求寻找患者同排以及前后两排的乘客，但为将传染风险降至最低，有地区将范围扩大至整节车厢，甚至整个车次或航班。
For "close contacts," internal regulatory documents only require that passengers be located in the same row and on both sides, but to minimize the risk of contagion, areas are extended to entire carriages or even entire trains or flights.
各地对确诊患者的信息公开程度也不一样。
The degree of disclosure of information on confirmed patients also varies from place to place.
“总体来说，个人信息及工作单位不宜太具体，更不能列出人名、身份证号、电话号码等。
"In general, personal information and work units should not be too specific, not to mention the name, identity number, telephone number, etc.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 崔慧莹南方周末实习生 于北辰 杨习得 宋炳晨责任编辑 | 马肃平为控制新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情蔓延，根据每一例确诊病患的移动路线寻找密切接触者，落实居家隔离观察，已成疫情防控的关键一步。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint South Weekend reporter Cui Huiying Southern Weekend Intern with Song Bingchen. To control the spread of pneumonia in the new coronavirus infection, finding close contacts based on each patient's itinerary and implementing home-based quarantine observations has become a critical step in the epidemic's prevention and control.
不完全统计显示，截至1月28日晚，全国至少有117趟火车、35架航班和3条地铁线路正在“紧急寻找”确诊患者的同行乘客。
Incomplete statistics show that on the night of January 28, at least 117 trains, 35 flights and three metro lines were "urgently seeking" fellow passengers who had been diagnosed.
焦虑不断升级，但冗杂、分散的信息不便查询，备受吐槽。
Anxiety is escalating, but jumbled, scattered information is not easy to query, is a lot of grooves.
“为什么不通过实名制购票信息直接找到旅客，还要在网上转发找人？”不少人表示疑惑。
"Why do not buy tickets through the real-name system information directly to find passengers, but also on-line forwarding?" Many people expressed doubt.
多地疾控中心工作人员向南方周末记者证实，媒体找人和实名制寻人是同步进行的。
Many CDC staff confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter that the media find people and real name system tracing is synchronized.
“但实名制寻人需要很多手续，所以第一时间就把信息发出去了，希望有乘客主动联系。
"But the real-name system requires a lot of formality, so the information is sent out the first time, hoping that passengers will contact.
”苏州市疾控中心一位工作人员说，此外，铁路上有部分无座乘客可能走到该车厢，实名制购票信息难以找到。
A CDC official in Suzhou said that in addition, some unseated passengers on the railway might have reached the car and information about real-name ticket purchases was difficult to find.
考虑到“求扩散”的寻人帖挨个比对非常不便，2020年1月27日晚11点，由7位程序员自发开发的“2019-nCoV新型肺炎确诊患者相同行程查询工具”正式上线。
The 2019-nCoV New Pneumonia Patient Same Trip Enquiry Tool, developed by seven programmers at 11: 00 pm on January 27, 2020, was officially launched, taking into account the inconveniences of searching for proliferators.
一位开发者告诉南方周末记者，该查询工具上线未满20小时即获得了100多万访问量，两度优化服务器仍被挤瘫。
A developer told Southern Weekend that the tool had received more than a million visits within 20 hours of going online, and the twice-optimized server was still crammed.
1实名制找人，靠谱但费时“潜伏期也有可能传染给其他人，所以在接触病源的14天以内，我们要对他进行医学观察和相对隔离。
The real-name system takes a lot of time to find someone, but the incubation period can also infect other people, so we have to observe him medically and isolate him relatively for up to 14 days.
”1月25日，国家卫健委高级别专家组成员、中国工程院院士李兰娟在接受央视采访时说。
Li Lanjuan, a member of the National Fitness and Health Commission's high-level panel and a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, told CCTV on January 25.
确诊患者后，关于其行动路线的追溯将正式启动。
After the diagnosis of the patient, traceability of his or her course of action will be officially initiated.
找到与他们同行的密切接触者，监控这些“高危人群”的健康状况，是疫情防控的重中之重。
Finding close contacts with their peers and monitoring the health of these "at-risk populations" is a top priority for disease prevention and control.
按照《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎可疑暴露者和密切接触者管理方案（第二版）》的规定：与病例乘坐同一交通工具并有近距离接触人员，包括在交通工具上照料护理过病人的人员；该病人的同行人员（家人、同事、朋友等）；经调查评估后发现有可能近距离接触病人的其他乘客和乘务人员，均属于病例的密切接触者。
According to the Management Program for Suspected Exposed Persons and Close Contacts with New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia (2nd Edition): Persons who travel on the same transport as the patient and have close contact with the patient, including persons who have cared for the patient on the means of transport; the patient's companions (family, colleagues, friends, etc.);
铁路部门表示，凡列车上发现发热旅客的，各地防疫部门均可向当地铁路部门提出，铁路单位通过12306实名制信息，查找发热旅客同车厢旅客信息，提供给防疫部门。
Railway departments said that whenever fever passengers are found on trains, epidemic prevention departments throughout the region can put forward to the local railway authorities, through 12306 real name system information, to find hot passengers and passenger compartment information, to provide epidemic prevention departments.
以苏州为例，1月26日23点12分，苏州市卫健委“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控领导小组”发布紧急通告，急寻1月22日G1766次16车乘客。
In Suzhou, for example, at 23: 12 on January 26, the leading group for the prevention and control of pneumonia related to a new coronavirus infection issued an urgent notice seeking 16 passengers on January 22, 2006.
该车厢有乘客被确诊，通告要求同车乘客致电苏州市疾控中心应急电话。
Passengers in the compartment were diagnosed and the call was made to the CDC emergency number in Suzhou.
值班人员称，当天夜里就有乘客致电联系，截至27日16点，有近10名乘客与疾控中心取得联系。
On duty, passengers called the same night, as of 16: 00 pm, nearly 10 passengers contact the CDC.
相比旅客自行上报，依靠实名制购票信息寻找同行乘客显然更加靠谱。
Compared with the self-reported passengers, relying on the real-name system to buy ticket information to find fellow passengers obviously more reliable.
1月25日15点55分，平遥县人民政府官网发布紧急通告称，1月20日晚20时，由太原开往平遥的机场中巴（车牌号：晋C60695）中发现确诊病例，要求同乘人员向当地村委会、乡镇卫生院或者社区卫生服务中心报告，并做好自我隔离。
On January 25, at 15: 55 pm, an emergency notice was issued on the website of the People's Government of Pingyuan County stating that at 2000 p.m. on January 20, confirmed cases were found in the Zhongba (licence plate number: Jin C60695) from Taiyuan to Pingyao.
“主动告知的还是少，最后还是依靠县政府协调，通过实名制找到的乘客比较多。
"Unsolicited advice is still small, or rely on county government coordination, through the real-name system to find more passengers.
”当地工作人员说，通告发出6小时内，乘客已全部找到，均已采取居家隔离措施。
Local staff said all passengers had been found within six hours of the announcement and that they had been placed in quarantine.
淄博市疾控中心传染病防治所的工作人员告诉南方周末记者，同车厢乘客的登记信息，卫生部门并不掌握，需将相关的信息报送给省疾控中心，后者联系省联控联防机制单位，由他们负责寻找，最后再把相关的信息反馈回地方。
Zibo City CDC infectious disease control center staff told Southern Weekend reporter, with the passenger registration information, the health department does not have the relevant information, the provincial CDC, the latter contact the provincial CDC units, who will be responsible for looking for, and then the relevant information back to the local.
尽管工作人员已紧急加班工作，这一套信息传输流程仍需一定时间。
Although staff are already working overtime on an emergency basis, this information transfer process will take some time.
2地毯式追踪“每天要测两次体温，分别向工作单位、街道办事处和辖区疾控中心报告健康状况。
Carpet Tracing "Take temperature twice a day and report your health to your workplace, your street office and your district CDC.
”家在青岛的王昀（化名）告诉南方周末记者，因21日与一位确诊患者搭乘同一航班，他已居家隔离数天，目前没有任何不适症状，但每次看体温测试结果，内心仍很忐忑。
Wang Yun (not his real name), who lives in Qingdao, told Southern Weekend reporter that he had been in isolation for several days on the same flight with a confirmed patient.
王昀说，1月18日和19日两天，武汉市通报的新增病例仅136例，“没感觉那么厉害”。
On January 18 and 19, only 136 new cases were reported in Wuhan city, "not so bad," Wang said.
他在机场买了口罩，候机和乘机的时候都一直戴着。
He bought a mask at the airport and kept wearing it while waiting and flying.
25日，他突然接到单位电话，需要他居家隔离半个月，不要出门。
On the 25th, he received a phone call from his work unit, requiring him to remain in quarantine for half a month.
随后疾控部门也电话通知他居家隔离，每天测体温2次并上报，“并没有人告诉我搭乘的航班上发现了确诊患者，是我自己从微信上看到的。
The CDC then telephoned him to stay in quarantine and took two temperature readings a day. "No one told me I had a confirmed patient on the flight I was on," he said.
”王昀回忆说，当时在飞机上他坐在第一排，确诊患者坐在第十排，距离比较远，他还是比较担心。
Wang recalled sitting in the first row of the plane to confirm that the patient was sitting a long way from the 10th row.
尽管有证据显示，并非所有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者都会发烧，但疫情当前，人们的喜忧惊惧被一只小小的温度计支配。
Although there is evidence that not all new coronavirus-infected pneumonia patients will have a fever, the epidemic is now dominated by a small thermometer.
在全国30个省（自治区、直辖市）启动突发公共卫生事件一级响应后，基层社区正被广泛动员。
Grass-roots communities are being widely mobilized following the first-level response to public health emergencies in 30 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities throughout the country.
每一个人的体温及健康信息，都将扁平成表格里的一条上报数据。
Each person's body temperature and health information will be flattened into a form of reported data.
1月27日，国家卫生健康委在新闻发布会上表示，目前疫情防控正处于关键时刻，必须充分发挥基层社区包括农村社区的动员能力。
At a press conference on 27 January, the National Health Council said that the prevention and control of the epidemic was at a critical juncture and that grass-roots communities, including rural communities, must be fully mobilized.
地毯式的追踪、网格化的管理正在推进。
The management of carpet tracking and gridding is advancing.
1月27日，在西安地铁二号线大明宫西站，工作人员对安检设备进行消毒。
January 27, Xi'an subway line 2 Daming Palace West Station, staff to disinfect security equipment.
（新华社记者 张博文/图）为寻找武汉归来者、病患密切接触者等“高危人群”，除在媒体上发布疫情信息寻找相关同行乘客外，各地政府也各出奇招，瞒报漏报需查缺补漏，追踪信息也更加细致。
To find "high-risk groups" such as Wuhan returnees and close contacts with patients, governments around the world have come up with unusual measures to cover up missing reports and improve tracking information, in addition to publishing information on the epidemic in the media to find passengers with relevant counterparts.
1月28日，河北省石家庄市悬赏2000元举报武汉归来漏登记人员；山西阳泉甚至开始寻找1月22日14时30分-17时在市政府洗浴中心男澡堂洗澡的市民及搓澡工，因为一名确诊患者曾在此洗过澡。
On January 28, a reward of 2,000 yuan was offered to residents of Shijiazhuang city in Hebei Province for reporting missing persons returning from Wuhan. Shanxi Yangquan even began to search for residents and washworkers who bathed in the bathing room of the municipal bathing center between 1430 and 1700 hours on January 22 because a confirmed patient had bathed there.
3多大范围算“密切接触者”？南方周末记者发现，寻找同行乘客的信息多为终点站城市所发，但是沿途停靠的站点城市却鲜少见到信息通知。
South Weekend reporter found that the information of searching for fellow passengers is mostly sent by destination cities, but few of the stops along the way are notified.
安徽省本地媒体《新安晚报》从1月25日开始陆续发布有确诊患者乘坐的车辆信息，截至1月27日，共有列车、大巴等7个车次信息。
On January 25, Xinhua News Evening News, a local newspaper in Anhui Province, began publishing information on vehicles carrying confirmed patients. As of January 27, there were seven train and bus numbers.
南方周末记者整理发现，其中6个车次途经阜阳、六安、亳州、合肥等安徽各市，终点站均不在安徽省内，1个为公交乘车。
Southern Weekend reporter collated found that six of the vehicles through Fuyang, Liuan, Bozhou, Hefei and other Anhui cities, the terminal is not in Anhui Province, one for public transport.
《新安晚报》记者告知，列车信息是根据各地卫健委的信息和其他地区的报道（比如列车经停安徽地区）自行整理的。
Xinan Evening News reported that the train information is based on local health committee information and other regional reports (such as the train through the Anhui region) collated.
南方周末记者搜索安徽省卫生健康委员会网站，并未发现相关寻找同行乘客的信息。
Southern Weekend reporter searched Anhui province health committee website, did not find the relevant information to look for fellow passengers.
根据原报道中提供的省疾控中心联系方式，南方周末记者27日晚联系到值班人员，其表示并未接到收集患者同行乘客信息的要求。
According to the provincial CDC contact information provided in the original report, Southern Weekend reporter contacted the duty staff on the night of 27, said that the patients did not receive the request to collect passenger information.
而将多大范围内的同行乘客列为“密切接触者”，目前尚未有统一标准。
There is as yet no uniform standard on how wide a range of fellow passengers should be classified as "close contacts."
苏州市疾控中心工作人员告诉南方周末记者，“内部规范文件只要求寻找患者同排以及前后两排的乘客，但是我们扩大范围到整个车厢，如果跟患者不在同一车厢，是不用担心的。
"The internal regulations only ask for passengers in the same row and in the front and back rows, but we extend the car to cover the entire compartment without the patient," Suzhou CDC staff told Southern Weekend reporter.
”广西壮族自治区卫健委则将整个车次或航班的乘客都列为“可疑对象”。
The Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Wei Bodyguard Committee on the entire train or flight passengers are listed as "suspicious object."
1月27日20点47分，广西卫健委发布紧急通告称，23名患者曾在1月13日-22日期间，乘坐7班列车、8个航班达到广西多地，同行乘客共5594人，数量巨大。
At 2047 hours on January 27, Guangxi Wei Bodyguard Commission issued an urgent notice that 23 patients had arrived in Guangxi from January 13 to 22 on seven trains and eight flights with a total of 5,594 passengers.
南方周末记者与广西卫健委联系后，工作人员解释，列车或者飞机中空气流通性都较差，患者也可能会在不同车厢走动，“新冠肺炎”以呼吸道飞沫传播为主，亦可通过接触传播，如果同行乘客接触到被感染者污染的物品，再触摸口鼻等，也可能会发生传染。
The Southern Weekend reporter contacted Guangxi Health Commission, staff explained that the train or aircraft air ventilation is poor, patients may also walk in different carriages, the "New Crown Pneumonia" is mainly transmitted by respiratory droplets, but also through contact, if fellow passengers come into contact with infected objects, then touch mouth and nose, etc.
中山大学公共卫生学院教授陆家海认为，为了将传染降低到最小限度，“采取这种措施是有必要的”。
Lu Jiahai, a professor at the School of Public Health at Zhongshan University, said "such measures are necessary" to minimize infection.
4被撕扯的知情权和隐私权2020年1月26日，武汉市市长周先旺在新闻发布会上透露的数据令人揪心——因为春节和疫情的影响，有五百多万人离开武汉。
The Right to Information and Privacy The figures released by Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang at a news conference on January 26, 2020 are disturbing - more than five million people have left Wuhan because of the Spring Festival and the outbreak.
同行乘客有多少武汉人，是否有人已被确诊，成了缓解焦虑的“刚需”。
The number of passengers with whom Wuhan, whether or not someone has been diagnosed, has become a "just need" to ease anxiety.
1月27日晚11点，由7位程序员搭建的“2019-nCoV新型肺炎确诊患者相同行程查询工具”正式上线。
At 11 pm on January 27, the "2019-nCoV New Pneumonia Confirmed Patient Same Trip Enquiry Tool" was launched by seven programmers.
输入自己乘坐的交通工具、时间和地区，即可查询到自己是否曾和确诊者同行。
Enter your own means of transport, time and area to find out if you have ever traveled with a confirmed person.
其中一位程序员告诉南方周末记者，上线不到一天，访问量就突破了100万，“服务器快扛不住了，我们一直在优化”。
One programmer told Southern Weekend reporter that less than a day after the visit, the number of visitors exceeded 1 million, "the server can not carry fast, we have been optimized."
绝大多数情况下，传播病毒并非患者故意为之，但针对武汉人甚至整个湖北人的“恶意”却在不断蔓延，公众知情权与患者隐私权不断撕扯。
In the vast majority of cases, the transmission of the virus is not deliberately intended by the patient, but against Wuhan people and even the entire Hubei people "malicious" is spreading, the public right to know and patients privacy is constantly torn.
发现有乘客确诊的航班，被网友称为“空投病毒”；在尚未确诊时，返程途中搭遍南京和青岛多条地铁线路的患者，也被骂上微博热搜；有武汉出行历史的市民或返乡学生配合信息统计，转眼个人信息就被泄露到网上，遭遇人肉搜索或被视为“潜在病毒”。
Those who had traveled all over Nanjing and Qingdao on their way back were also scolded for microblogging fever. Citizens with a history of traveling in Wuhan or returning students cooperated with the information statistics, and their personal information was leaked online, subjected to human flesh search or regarded as a "potential virus."
疫情发生以来，约从1月20日起，全国各省份卫健委陆续开始通过官网发布疫情通报。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, about January 20, the provincial health committees began to spread the disease through the official network.
有人注意到，一些疫情通报详细及时，但流露出患病者的姓氏、就职地点、居所所在的镇等极易锁定个人身份的信息。
It was noted that some of the notifications were detailed and timely, but revealed highly identifiable information, such as the family name of the person affected, the place of work, the town where the residence was located, etc.
“有人也不报自己的单位，上来就调查住址、电话和出行历史，感觉我的信息被泄露了，已经报警。
"Some people don't report their units and come up to investigate addresses, phone calls and travel histories, feeling that my information has been leaked and reported to the police.
”一位被认定为同行“密切接触者”，但并未按规定上报健康信息的乘客说。
A passenger who was identified as "in close contact" with peers but did not report health information as required said.
“将这些密切接触者个人信息泄露出去的行为，应该被追责。
"The act of disclosing the personal information of these close contacts should be held accountable.
”复旦大学国际关系与公共事务学院教授、数字与移动治理实验室主任郑磊说。
Zheng Lei, professor at Fudan University's School of International Relations and Public Affairs and director of the Digital and Mobile Governance Laboratory.
就目前情况来看，哪些信息应该公开，哪些应该受到保护，并没有明确标准，各地的处理情况及信息公开程度也不一样。
As things stand, there are no clear criteria as to what information should be made public and what should be protected, and the degree of treatment and disclosure varies from place to place.
“总体来说，确诊患者的个人信息及工作单位不宜太具体，更不能列出人名、身份证号、电话号码等。
"In general, the personal information and work unit of patients should not be too specific, not to mention the names, identity numbers, telephone numbers, etc.
”郑磊告诉南方周末记者。
Zheng Lei told Southern Weekend reporter.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
买票都实名制了，为何还借媒体找密切接触者？。
Buy tickets are real name system, why still use the media to find close contacts?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "买票都实名制了，为何还借媒体找密切接触者？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; why use the media to find close contacts?;
var msg_desc = "实名制找人，靠谱但费时​";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
