便利店餐饮企业都来试水 “全民卖菜”风口渐起 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Convenience store restaurants have come to test the water "national dish" gradually - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="郑淯心";。
Var auther = & quot; Zheng Zhen quot;;
便利店餐饮企业都来试水 “全民卖菜”风口渐起。
Convenience store catering enterprises have come to test the water "national dish" gradually.
郑淯心2020-02-18 20:38。
Zheng Zhenxin 2020-02-18 20: 38
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 郑淯心2月18日，眉州东坡相关负责人对记者称，近日眉州东坡上线了菜站功能，并推出小程序，消费者可以线上买一篮子菜，次日顺丰到家。
Zheng Zhenxin, a journalist with the Economic Observation Network, told reporters that recently the east slope of Mei Zhou was functioning as a vegetable station, and launched a small program whereby consumers could buy a basket of dishes online and arrive home the next day.
这让受疫情影响的餐饮公司除了外卖和团餐方式外，又找到的自救新方法。
This has allowed food and beverage companies affected by the epidemic to find new ways to save themselves in addition to take-out and group meals.
。
.
疫情期间，餐饮公司的生意备受影响，卖菜满足了消费者买蔬菜的需求，也解决了餐饮公司大量食材浪费问题。
During the epidemic, food and beverage companies were affected by the business, selling vegetables to meet consumer demand for vegetables, as well as a large number of catering companies waste food.
。
.
日前，老乡鸡董事长束从轩也对记者称，会在新零售、线上外卖、线上团队工作餐等多方面寻找新的发力点。
Recently, the chairman of the township chicken beam from Xuan also told reporters, will be in the new retail, online take-out, online team work meals and other aspects of the search for new strength.
老乡鸡已经在安徽试点，在线上（外卖、电商等）平台上卖起了米面土鸡蛋等新零售。
Laoxiang chicken has been in Anhui pilot, online (take-out, electric business, etc.) platform sold rice noodle eggs and other new retail.
。
.
在卖菜热潮下，电商纷纷抓住机会花样百出，商超和便利店也乘风而起在线卖菜，连餐饮公司也抢滩这一生意。
In the market craze, electric businessmen have seized the opportunity to do everything, supermarkets and convenience stores have also taken advantage of the online vegetables, even catering companies rushed to the beach business.
。
.
餐饮公司也来卖菜。
Catering companies also come to sell vegetables.
春节对于餐饮公司是最重要的节日。
Spring Festival is the most important holiday for catering companies.
眉州东坡相关负责人对记者称，为了迎接春节，节前备了很多货，比如说蔬菜肉蛋等食材，准备大干一场。
Mei Zhou Dongpo related responsible person told reporters, in order to meet the Spring Festival, prepared a lot of goods, such as vegetables and eggs, ready to do a big.
然而到春节前感染新冠肺炎人数逐渐增加，越来越多顾客退订年夜饭，最终退订了一万多桌年夜饭，大量的食材都放在门店里。
However, before the Spring Festival, the number of new crown pneumonia gradually increased, more and more customers canceled New Year's Eve dinner, and finally cancelled more than 10,000 table dinner, a large amount of food materials are placed in the store.
。
.
于是，有门店店长想到百姓买菜很难，库房里都是好的食材，蔬菜也不能存放，店长便摆摊开始卖蔬菜，很受周围居民欢迎，一开始北京居民有囤货心理，萝卜、白菜、姜葱都是畅销品。
The storekeeper set up a stand to sell vegetables, which was very popular among the residents of Beijing. At first, the residents of Beijing had a hoard of food, such as turnips, cabbage and ginger onions.
之后，眉州东坡的其他门店也开始学习卖菜，又能解决食材周转问题，也能保障周围居民的蔬菜需求。
Since then, other stores in the eastern slope of Mei Zhou have started to learn to sell vegetables, which can solve the problem of food turnover, but also guarantee the vegetable demand of the surrounding residents.
。
.
之后，眉州东坡从集团层面，向供应商下单，做好供应链管理，使得卖的蔬菜都是新鲜的、平价的。
Afterwards, from the group level, Mei Zhou Dongpo ordered suppliers to do a good job of supply chain management, so that the vegetables sold are fresh and affordable.
。
.
眉州东坡相关负责人对记者称，来眉州东坡买菜的人越来越多，这段时间集团就给门店规定流程，优化设计，增加培训，做成了菜站、卖一篮子菜，除了蔬菜以外还有半成品的东坡肉、肘子也在售卖。
Mei Zhou Dongpo relevant officials told reporters that more and more people came to the east slope of the city to buy vegetables, this time the group imposed procedures, optimized design, increased training, made a vegetable station, sold a basket of vegetables, in addition to vegetables, semi-finished East Slope, elbow sales.
。
.
不仅是眉州东坡，老乡鸡也在售米面土鸡蛋。
Not only is the east slope of Mei Zhou, the countryside chicken is also selling rice noodle eggs.
老乡鸡方面对记者称，2月13日老乡鸡上线新零售项目，联合国内一线食材的品牌供应商，甄选好的食材，在线上售卖。
Laoxiang chicken told reporters, February 13 on the new retail project, the United Nations in the first line of food brand suppliers, select good ingredients, online for sale.
记者注意到，老乡鸡售卖的有大米、小米、面、土鸡蛋等，产地均为优质产区，目前，安徽已经上线。
The reporter noted that the township chicken sold rice, millet, flour, soil eggs, etc., the production areas are high-quality production areas, at present, Anhui has been put on line.
。
.
电商卖菜热潮。
Electric merchants are selling vegetables.
26岁的王梅返回北京工作后，需要在家隔离14天，只能自己做饭网上买菜，快递会把菜送到小区门口。
When Wang Mei, 26, returned to work in Beijing, she had to be kept in isolation for 14 days.
在疫情爆发前，她很少使用电商购买蔬菜，现在每周使用三至四次。
Before the outbreak, she rarely used electricians to buy vegetables, and now uses them three to four times a week.
不仅是王梅，新冠肺炎改变了很多消费者购买蔬菜的习惯。
Not only Wang Mei, but also Xinguan Pneumonia has changed the way many consumers buy vegetables.
。
.
新冠肺炎疫情影响，全国各大城市都采取了严格的管控措施，限制居民外出等，这使得互联网“云买菜”开始受到关注。
The impact of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the country's major cities have adopted strict control measures, such as restrictions on residents to travel, so that the Internet "clouds buy vegetables" began to attract attention.
半夜抢菜、预约爆满等现象催生生鲜电商运用共享员工、分时段下单、大量备货等手段来应对疫情下爆满的订单。
Late-night scramble for vegetables, full appointments and other phenomena led to the use of sharing staff, sub-time orders, a large number of stock, and other means to deal with the epidemic full order.
据记者不完全统计，目前有叮咚买菜、每日优鲜、京东到家、苏宁小店、盒马鲜生、美团买菜、天猫超市、饿了么等十几家电商均可以买菜，大家纷纷发力，抢滩这波机会。
According to incomplete statistics, there are Dingdong buy vegetables, daily good, Jingdong home, Suning small shop, box horse fresh, the United States Mission to buy vegetables, the cat supermarket, hungry do not wait for a dozen or so electric merchants can buy vegetables, we have made great efforts to seize this wave of opportunities.
。
.
为保障北京市场供应，美团买菜增加供应商，加大采购量，并到山东、河北等产区直采，拓展进货渠道。
In order to protect the Beijing market supply, the United States Mission to buy more vegetables suppliers, increase the volume of procurement, and to Shandong, Hebei and other production areas directly mining, expanding channels.
还增加了净菜和半成品类商品，全力保障新鲜蔬菜、肉禽蛋奶等生活必需品的充足供给。
We have also added clean vegetables and semi-finished products to ensure an adequate supply of fresh vegetables, poultry and eggs and other necessities of life.
。
.
此外，美团闪购平台还全面支持并动员在京连锁品牌超市保证线上营业时间，并与平台上的生鲜运营商家保持紧密配合，共同应对市民线上购买生鲜食材需求暴增的情况，在保持供给的同时维持价格符合市场平均价。
In addition, the AMA Flash Purchase Platform fully supports and mobilizes online business hours at Beijing-based supermarket chains and works closely with the live operators on the platform to cope with the surge in demand for raw materials purchased online by the public, while maintaining supply while maintaining prices at market average prices.
。
.
不仅是电商卖菜，电商也赋能小商户帮助其在这样的特殊时期卖菜。
Not only are electric merchants selling vegetables, but they also empower small merchants to help them sell vegetables at such special times.
。
.
“一边是居民买不到菜，一边是农户手里有菜卖不掉、运不出。
"On the one hand, residents can't buy food, and on the other, farmers have vegetables that can't be sold or shipped.
我能做的就是把他们的菜品上到我的店铺来卖。
All I can do is sell their food in my shop.
”吴强在京东开放平台上经营着一家农副食品的店铺，因为受春节和疫情影响，店铺的销量有了明显下降。
Wu Qiang runs a non-staple food store on the open platform in Beijing, where sales have fallen sharply due to the Spring Festival and the outbreak.
。
.
加入京东快递“移动菜篮子”计划后，京东快递对吴强店铺的蔬菜订单实行优先揽收、优先配送的专项保障方案，并实行产地直采直销服务，搭建起“产地直销+快递运输”的直供通道，减少中转流通环节，确保当日24点前下单，最快次日中午12点前就能收到新鲜蔬菜。
After joining the "Mobile Basket" program of Jingdong Express, Jing Dong Express implemented the special guarantee plan of priority collection and distribution of vegetables from Wu Qiang's shops, and set up direct supply channels for direct production and express delivery, reducing transit circulation, ensuring orders are placed before 2400 hours on the day and fresh vegetables are received by 12 noon at the earliest.
有了稳定又高时效的快递服务保障，疫情期间，吴强的店铺生意又旺起来了。
With stable and time-consuming express delivery service guarantee, Wu Qiang's shop business flourished during the epidemic.
。
.
京东快递移动菜篮子计划已在全国近50个城市落地实施，一天揽收近350吨农产品。
The Jing Dong express mobile food basket has been implemented in nearly 50 cities across the country, collecting nearly 350 tons of agricultural products a day.
。
.
便利店、商超加码卖菜。
Convenience stores, supermarkets selling vegetables.
线下的商超和便利店也不甘示弱。
Supermarkets and convenience stores under the line are also showing signs of weakness.
日前，家乐福中国在苏宁易购上线”1小时达“服务之后，凡是在家乐福门店生活圈3公里范围内的消费者，都可享受苏宁易购APP下单，由家乐福门店发货，1小时急速到家，覆盖时令生鲜、粮油调味、酒水饮料、休闲零食、母婴用品、个护清洁等商品。
Carrefour China is offering an easy-to-buy APP service to customers within three kilometers of Carrefour's daily life cycle. Carrefour stores deliver orders in a one-hour rush home, covering a range of fresh, cereals and oils, soft drinks, snacks, baby and baby items, and cleaning products.
。
.
苏宁家乐福CEO田睿对记者称，根据数据，家乐福到家业务订单春节期间增长了三倍多，蔬菜订单量同比增长680%，大白菜、土豆、长白萝卜、西红柿订购量最多。
According to data, Carrefour's home business orders more than tripled during the Spring Festival, with vegetable orders up 680% year-on-year, with cabbage, potatoes, turnips and tomatoes ordering the most, according to Mr. Tian.
。
.
田睿称，对于家乐福来说，经营原则始终是更好满足用户需求，比如在商品规划方面，会增加更多健康类、有机类产品；在用户体验方面，一方面是针对到店购物人群会对门店购物环境的健康舒适度进行升级；二是对产品进行升级，生鲜品类的比重会加大，消费者到店可以购买、可以堂食、可以打包带走；第三，针对居家用户或者特殊时段（如恶劣天气等），家乐福会在IT技术、配送履约等方面进行大量投入发展到家业务，在家乐福门店周边3公司甚至未来更大的辐射半径内实现1小时送达，从而更好地满足用户的多元需求。
For Carrefour, the operating principle has always been to better meet user needs, such as more health-related, organic products in the area of product planning; customer experience, on the one hand, store-shopping people will upgrade the health comfort of store shopping environment; and, third, customers can purchase, receive, and carry goods around stores within a one-hour radius to better meet the diverse needs of customers.
。
.
物美集团也与多点Dmall合作，推出“物美多点社区抗疫提货站”。
Wumei Group and the multi-point Dmall cooperation, launched "Wumei multi-point community anti-epidemic delivery station."
目前，北京市479个社区已经确定开通，下一步将推广到全市4000多个社区。
At present, 479 communities in Beijing have been identified for opening, and the next step will be extended to more than 4,000 communities throughout the city.
。
.
多点Dmall目前采用多模式、多渠道混合作业的方式联动各方。
Multi-point Dmall uses multi-mode, multi-channel mixed operation mode to link the parties.
比如服务站售卖的套装产品，是在消费者下单后，按需安排生产加工，从大仓直接运输到社区站点，而O2O、全球精选的自有选购订单，仍然通过门店进行拣货、配送。
For example, packages sold at the kiosks are processed on demand after orders are placed by consumers, transported directly from large warehouses to community sites, while O2O, a global selection of self-selected purchase orders, is still collected and distributed through stores.
这是在多点的全面数字化基础上，实现的线上线下一体化。
This is in the multi-point comprehensive digitization based on the realization of on-line offline integration.
整个供应链的各环节，包括订单、库存、运力等数据，都是打通的，可以做到实时调配，节约供应链和配送资源。
The entire supply chain, including orders, inventory, capacity, and other data, are accessible, real-time deployment can be achieved, supply chain savings and distribution resources.
其中，多点Dmall之前与合作商超共同推动的生鲜标准化，也起到了很大作用，标准化的菜肉单品以及由此组成的套装，大大提升了拣配效率以及安全标准。
Among them, the new standardization promoted by Dmall and the cooperative super-standard has also played a great role. Standardized meat and vegetable products and the resulting packages have greatly improved sorting efficiency and safety standards.
。
.
不仅如此，社区便利店已摆脱传统的副食品供应，目前以社区为中心，以果蔬、副食、快餐配送等为主体的新业态，正在打造小而美的周边一公里社区生活圈。
In addition, convenience stores have moved away from the traditional non-staple food supply and are now building a 1-kilometer neighborhood with a community-centred focus on fruits and vegetables, by-products, and fast food distribution.
除了生活必需品以外，原来便利店并不具备的果蔬等产品需求也逐渐走旺。
In addition to the necessities of life, convenience stores did not have the fruits and vegetables and other products gradually booming demand.
这是在疫情之下便利店行业出现新的变化。
This is the convenience store industry in the face of the epidemic new changes.
。
.
便利蜂2月14日宣布，通过公开竞牌方式，获得位于天津市武清区的30亩土地使用权，并将用于建造中国最大规模的鲜食供应基地，规划一期工程面积30000平方米。
Facilitation bee announced February 14, through public bidding to obtain the use of 30 mu of land in Tianjin Wuqing District, will be used to build the largest fresh food supply base in China, planning the first phase of the project area of 30,000 square meters.
建成后将按照标准化的生产流程，制作运送到华北门店的鲜食。
When completed, it will produce fresh food for delivery to North China stores in accordance with standardized production procedures.
。
.
据便利蜂执行董事薛恩远介绍：“目前，便利蜂在北京已经拥有两家基地，由于门店的持续扩张，再新建一家大型供应基地以满足未来3-5年内的华北需求，是便利蜂一直在推进的事情。
According to Xue Enyuan, executive director of Easybee, "Convenience Bees already has two bases in Beijing, and a new large supply base to meet demand in northern China for the next 3-5 years is something that the bees have been promoting," said Xue Enyuan, executive director of Ease.
”。
"
根据规划，在接下来的18个月周期内，便利蜂将依托天津的丰富食品原料供应优势和区域交通优势，建设满足3000家门店的特大型供应基地，建成后该基地将是全国规模最大、自动化水平最高、设施最先进的鲜食供应基地。
Over the next 18 months, the facility bee will build an extremely large supply base catering to 3,000 stores, relying on Tianjin's abundant supply of food materials and regional transportation advantages. When completed, the base will be the largest, most automated and most advanced fresh food supply base in the country.
该项目建成后，结合便利蜂在北京的供应基地，便利蜂在华北的整个供应能力将能够满足5000家便利店的需求。
When the project is completed, combined with a convenient bee supply base in Beijing, its overall supply capacity in northern China will be able to meet the needs of 5,000 convenience stores.
本文经「原本」原创认证，作者经济观察报，访问yuanben.io查询【VK1TVYMR】获取授权信息。
This article has been "original" original certification, the author of the Economic Observer, visited yuanben.io [VK1TVYMR] for authorization information.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
郑淯心经济观察报记者。
Zheng Zhenxin Economic Observer reporter.
大消费新闻部记者。
Correspondent, Consumer Press Department.
长期关注大消费行业的市场发展和公司动向，擅长深度调查报道、高端人物专访和产业剖析。
Long-term attention to the large consumer industry market development and company trends, good at in-depth investigation and reporting, high-end interviews and industrial profiling.
。
.
线索请联系：zhengyuxin@eeo.com.cn。
For further information, contact: zhengyuxin @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
4000亿沙漠蝗虫搅动资本市场 最新消息：印 。
The 400 Billion Desert Locust Agitates Capital Market Update: India.
诺亚财富独家回复公司疫情期间无薪休假传闻 。
Noah Fortune exclusive reply to the company during the epidemic unpaid leave rumors.
近藤大介：日本疫情可能进一步扩大 。
Mr. Kondo: The epidemic is likely to spread further in Japan.
疫情后首个鼓励汽车消费的城市政策出炉  佛 。
The first post-epidemic urban policy encouraged car consumption.
国务院常务会议：阶段性减免企业社保费、纠 。
State Council executive meeting: relief of corporate social insurance premiums, redress.
再融资新规出炉 三家上市公司欲尝“头啖汤 。
Three public companies are to be pampered with soup.
企业复工需盖8个公章？有多难？泸州江阳区 。
Enterprises need to build 8 official seals to resume work? How difficult? Luzhou Jiangyang District.
武汉两大芯片厂疫情期未停工 但产能受影响 。
Wuhan two major chip plant epidemic period did not stop but production capacity affected.
“日光基”频现 睿远旗下新基金半天认购资 。
"Daylight" frequency Ruiyuan's new fund half-subscription capital.
当当被爆料复工员工其母亲为新冠肺炎确诊病 。
When the workers were blown back to work their mother was diagnosed with pneumonia.
1、快讯 | 国家卫健委：新冠肺炎新增   。
1. News & # # 124; & # 44; National Fitness Commission: New Crown Pneumonia.
2、快讯 ｜ 湖北省新冠肺炎新增确诊16   。
2, fast news, Hubei Province new crown pneumonia newly diagnosed 16.
3、能指望自如、蛋壳们有担当吗   。
Can you count on yourself, eggshells?
4、武汉两大芯片厂疫情期未停工 但产   。
Four, Wuhan two big chip factories epidemic period did not stop but produce.
5、义乌商品城开市首日 商户积极应对    。
Yiwu Commodity City opened on the first day of business to respond positively.
6、通用汽车提列11亿美元重组国际业务   。
General Motors Corp. drew $1.1 billion to restructure its international operations.
7、上汽大众1月销量意外暴跌40%  与一   。
SAIC Motor Co. saw sales tumble an unexpected 40% vs. 1 in January.
8、国务院常务会议：阶段性减免企业社   。
General meeting of the State Council: relief for enterprises in stages.
9、便利店餐饮企业都来试水 “全民卖   。
Convenience stores Restaurants have come to test the water "sell for all.
10、拟投规模34.62亿 首批两只保险资金   。
To invest the first two insurance funds totaling 3.462 billion US dollars.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
分享到X腾讯微博一键通新浪微博QQ空间搜狐微博新华微博手机网易微博开心网豆瓣网手机快传人人网天涯凤凰微博朋友网微信QQ好友更多平台... (133)bShare。
share to X-Tencent micro-blog a key to Sina Weibo QQ space Sohu Weibo micro-blogging mobile phone network Weibo Weibo mobile phone network Quick Messenger Mobile Phone Quick Messenger Network Tianya Phoenix Weibo Weibo Friends micro-letter QQ Friends more platform... (133) bShare.
