“疫时”故事里，“我”只是一个普通人。
In the "blight" story, "I" is just an ordinary person.
林克。
Link.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
武汉封城，交通陷入停滞，外面的人无法进去。
Wuhan closed the city, traffic stalled, the outside people can not go in.
“不要紧，我骑车去，骑一段少一段。
"Never mind. I'm going by bike. I'll ride a little less.
”2020年1月31日，江夏区金口卫生院24岁的医生甘如意，背上泡面、饼干等干粮，从荆州市公安县农村老家骑行300多公里返回武汉支援一线。
On January 31, 2020, Gan Rui, a 24-year-old doctor at Jinkou Medical Center in Jiangxia, returned to Wuhan to support him by cycling more than 300 kilometers from his home village of Jingzhou City Public Security County.
疫情之下，无数像甘如意这样的逆行者在一线奋战，方便面、面包等是他们最离不开的搭档，及时充饥让他们能更全身心的投入到战斗中。
In the face of the epidemic, countless rebels like Gan Rui are fighting on the frontline. Instant noodles, bread and so on are their most indispensable partners.
突发的考验对所有国人都是一场淬炼。
The sudden test is a hardening for all Chinese people.
前方，数以万计的战士，正稳稳守护阵地。
Tens of thousands of soldiers are standing guard ahead.
而我们普通大众，服从大局，响应号召宅在家里，也是另一场有使命感的“战斗”。
And we ordinary people, obeying the general situation, responding to the call to stay at home, is another sense of mission "combat."
在这个注定难忘的春节，我们取消了走亲访友，少了热闹寒暄，但也留给我们更多与家人相伴的时间，心贴心唠唠家常、开动脑筋玩玩小游戏，甚至聚焦到朴素的一日三餐，家人在一起，能陪伴就是福……搁在以往，我们总是等待爸妈做好可口的饭菜，但在家里蹲期间，许多人强行点亮了自己的大厨技能，究其原因，是“闲”的，更是“馋”的。
In the Spring Festival, which is destined to be unforgettable, we canceled visiting friends and relatives and exchanged pleasantries, but also left us more time to converse with our families, chatting and playing games, and even focusing on simple meals.
不仅有凉皮、蛋糕这些高难度菜式争相斗艳，大多数人家中常备的方便面更成了香饽饽，毕竟比它方便的没它美味，比它美味的没它方便，许多人积极开发方便面的花样做法，更有人打趣到“万物皆可方便面”。
In addition to the high-difficulty dishes such as cool leather and cake, most people are ready to eat instant noodles. After all, it is more convenient than it is not delicious, than it is not convenient, many people actively develop instant noodles practices, and some people fun "everything can be instant noodles.
对于许多人来说，方便面就像是一位熟悉的老友，正是因为我们太了解它，所以才能有花样百出的烹饪方法。
For many people, instant noodles are like a familiar old friend, and it is because we know it so well that we can have all kinds of cooking methods.
不过，关于这位“老友”的争议也不小，那就是方便面到底有没有营养？这种担心，与其说是老问题，不如说是一个“刻板”的问题。
But the debate over whether instant noodles are nutritious is not so much an old problem as a "stereotype" one.
果壳阅读策划人史军也注意到了这点。
Shi Jun, the curator of fruit-shell reading, also noticed this.
他是方便面的忠实爱好者，几乎吃过国内能买到的所有品牌方便面。
He is an instant noodle enthusiast and has eaten almost every brand of instant noodles available at home.
他指出，方便面被诟病的主要原因，还是方便面的营养不够全面，不能满足我们现代人急需的一些营养物质，比如维生素C和膳食纤维，于是被斥为没有全面营养。
He points out that the main reason instant noodles are criticized is that the nutrition of instant noodles is not comprehensive enough to meet some of the nutrients we urgently need today, such as vitamin C and dietary fiber.
再后来，被传着传着就变成没有营养了。
Later, it was passed on to the public and turned into no nourishment.
然而科学研究表明，就算除去五花八门的添加物质，方便面里起码有面粉（碳水化合物，蛋白质）和油（脂肪），七大营养素就占了仨，泡着吃的时候还得喝水，你说方便面没营养，就好像非要说我们正常呼吸空气里没有氧气一个意思。
However, scientific research has shown that even after removing a wide variety of additives, instant noodles contain at least flour (carbohydrates, protein) and oil (fat). Seven nutrients make up the trio, and you have to drink water to soak it. You say instant noodles are not nutritious, as if we were breathing normally without oxygen.
中国医学科学技术大学附属第一医院神经外科主治医师徐昊也会在家煮泡面给孩子吃，他表示，方便面并不是没营养，只是营养不全面，所有食物都是如此。
Xu Hao, chief surgeon in neurosurgery at the No. 1 Hospital attached to the Chinese University of Medical Science and Technology, who also cooks noodles for children at home, says instant noodles are not nutrient-poor, only undernourished, and all foods are the same.
如果只吃一种食物，没有什么食物可以和方便面媲美。
If you eat only one food, there is no food comparable to instant noodles.
即使是对于孩子来说，方便面作为一种能量食品，本质来说和米饭、面条没什么差别。
Even for children, instant noodles, as an energy food, are essentially no different from rice or noodles.
对处于成长期的孩子来说，也可以作为正常食物来源之一。
It can also be used as a normal source of food for children in their formative years.
此外，关于“添加防腐剂”的困扰，方便面企业也需要站出来辟谣。
In addition, about the "add preservatives" puzzle, instant noodle companies also need to stand up to deny rumors.
就拿康师傅来说，其面饼在生产的过程中已经做到了完全脱水，含水量数值不到3%，从而有效抑制了有害霉菌在面饼及脱水蔬菜上的滋生。
Master Kang, for example, has achieved complete dehydration in the production process, with a moisture content of less than 3%, effectively inhibiting the breeding of harmful mold on bread and dehydrated vegetables.
也就是说，泡面本身就具备防腐能力，根本无需额外添加防腐剂。
In other words, the foam itself has anticorrosion capability, there is no need to add additional preservatives.
在如今的特殊时期，封城消息一出，方便面抢购一空。
In today's special period, the closure of the city news, instant noodles snapped up.
在抗击疫情的慰问品里，出现最多的也是方便面。
In the comfort of the fight against the epidemic, the most frequent is instant noodles.
其实，近些年，方便面也常常出现在产业竞争的案例当中。
In fact, in recent years, instant noodles often appear in the case of industrial competition.
本来在国内，方便面是一个800亿规模的巨大市场，但谁也没有想到，互联网时代来临后，它的最大竞争者竟然是外卖。
At home, instant noodles are an 80 billion-dollar market, but no one expected that its biggest competitor would be take-out after the advent of the Internet age.
外卖的出现，让很多人认为属于方便面的时代一去不复返了。
Gone are the days when take-out foods made people think instant noodles.
然而竞争格局也是件很有趣的事情，它永远都在动态变化。
But the pattern of competition is also very interesting, it is always dynamic change.
方便面行业没有一成不变，厂商们都纷纷开始升级发力，当消费者对方便面的需求日益多样化、个性化，方便面行业也在不断扭转趋势，力争实现口味和营养的创新，布局高端产品领域。
Instant noodle industry is not static, manufacturers are starting to upgrade power, when the consumer demand for instant noodles is increasingly diversified and personalized, the instant noodles industry is also constantly reversing the trend to achieve taste and nutrition innovation, layout of high-end products.
图片/平安襄州方便面是具有时代特色的食品，每个人都有与它相关的记忆。
Photo / Ping An Xiangzhou Instant Noodle is a food with the characteristics of the times, and everyone has memories associated with it.
疫情之下，只有共同坚守，才能共赢胜利。
Under the epidemic situation, we can win the victory only by adhering to it together.
感谢方便面始终守护在我们身边，成为我们密不可分的生活拍档，从逆境中寻求生生不息的力量源泉，有它，真好！本文仅代表作者观点，不代表平台立场作者 | 林克排版 | GINNY图片 | 部分来源于网络。
Thank you for the instant noodles that have always been there for us, our inseparable partner in life, a source of strength to keep alive from adversity. This article is for the authors only, not for the authors and not for Rink's typography and # 124; GINNY & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; Partly from the Web.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“疫时”故事里，“我”只是一个普通人。
In the "blight" story, "I" is just an ordinary person.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "“疫时”故事里，“我”只是一个普通人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "逆境中生生不息的力量源泉，有它，真好！";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with it, good & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
