口述 | 一位95后谈抗疫：我辈，当躬身入局。
Oral & # # 124; & # 45; A 95 Afterward Talk about Fighting Plague: My generation, as you bend over.
李政。
Li Zheng.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
“武汉其实不是缺口罩，缺的是可以在临床使用的独立包装的高标准的口罩，这也是我们逐个医院的去打电话排查需求和标准的原因，也是我们为什么要去一线的原因，我们这些人从上到下都有一股军人的家国情怀和强烈的使命感”。
"Wuhan is not a gap mask. What is missing is a high standard mask that can be individually packaged for clinical use, which is why we call hospitals to identify needs and standards, and why we are on the frontline. We have a military home and a strong sense of mission from top to bottom.
在短短20多分钟的电话采访中，“使命感”这三个字被张博文提及了9次。
In just over 20 minutes of telephone interviews, the word "sense of mission" was mentioned nine times by Zhang.
张博文出生于1996年，是雅迪在疫区前线援助的五名成员中年龄最小的一位，原本只是雅迪终端推广部门的普通一员，在这次的抗击新冠肺炎期间，却成为了一名逆行的“综合体战士”。
Born in 1996, he was the youngest of five members of Yadi's front-line support team in the affected areas. Originally a member of the Yadi Terminal Extension Department, he became a retrograde "complex fighter" during the fight against the disease.
他集司机、向导、搬运、安装、清点等职责于一身，与四名同事“躬身入局”，深入武汉、黄冈等疫情重灾区，为当地医疗单位和社会管理单位捐赠并发放驰援物资。
Combining the duties of driver, guide, handler, installation and inventory, he and his four colleagues "stooped into the bureau" and went deep into Wuhan, Huanggang and other hard-hit areas, donating and distributing relief materials to local medical and social management units.
这次采访是在张博文等五名成员前往武汉、黄冈援助返程无锡后，在隔离的定点酒店接受的电话采访。
This interview is in Zhang Bo Wen and other five members to Wuhan, Huanggang assistance to return to Wuxi, after the isolation of the fixed-point hotel interview.
张博文等五人，还要在酒店隔离满14天，才能和家人见面。
Zhang Bo-wen and other five people, but also in the hotel isolation for 14 days, to meet with their families.
在沟通中，这个96年的小伙子，通过电话传递出来的真诚与大义，令人久久挥之不去。
In the communication, this 96-year-old boy, through the telephone to convey the sincerity and righteousness, long lingering.
“国泰民安、早克时艰、天下承平”，这12个字是张博文在采访的最后，代表所有雅迪人献给中国母亲的一句话。
"National security, the difficult times, the world Chengping," these 12 words are Zhang Bo Wen at the end of the interview, on behalf of all Yadi dedicated to the Chinese mother of a sentence.
以下为张博文采访实录：问：从黄冈援助物资回来后，你们现在是自我隔离了吗？答：是的，今天是隔离的第3天，当天从高速下来后就直接进了隔离酒店。
Q: Have you been isolated since the arrival of the aid from Huanggang? A: Yes, today is the third day of isolation.
这个酒店是无锡安镇街道的集中隔离点，处于封闭的状态，我们不能走出房间门。
This hotel is the concentration of Wuxi An Zhen street isolation point, in the closed state, we can not go out of the room door.
说实话，我已经有点待不住了，我是一个从小待不住的人，高中是在内蒙、大学是在江西，我平时的工作性质是在全国各地跑，基本上在封闭空间内是待不住的。
To tell you the truth, I was a little too tired to stay in childhood, high school in Inner Mongolia, university is in Jiangxi, my usual nature of work is to run around the country, basically in closed space can not stay.
问：当时是毅然决然地决定和同事们一起前往黄冈和武汉么？你有没有犹豫过？答：第一，我是96年的，这次的疫情对我来说就像是参与了一个历史性的事件，很有成就感的；第二是因为我看新闻说免疫力强的人可以自愈，我平时就有锻炼的习惯，我感觉身体还可以。
Q: Was it decided to go to Huanggang and Wuhan with my colleagues resolutely? Have you ever hesitated? A: First, I was in '96, and the epidemic seemed to me like a historic event and a sense of accomplishment.
坦白讲，家人不太支持。
Frankly speaking, the family is not very supportive.
一方面，他们一年到头见不了我几次；另一方面，武汉是重灾区，大多数人避而远之，怕我也有个万一。
On the one hand, they can not see me several times a year; on the other hand, Wuhan is a serious disaster area, most people avoided, afraid I have a one.
问：我关注到在这次疫情援助中援助的企业很多，但很少会派出工作人员直接参与，雅迪是怎么想的？答：现在回头想想，要想真正的为疫情做一些事情，还是要深入到一线中，切实了解他们的所需，亲身体会他们的工作。
Q: I am concerned about the large number of enterprises assisted in this epidemic assistance, but seldom send their staff directly to participate in it.A: In retrospect, to really do something about the epidemic, we need to go deeper into the frontline to understand their needs and experience their work first hand.
比如，所有人都说湖北医护物资紧缺，但是到底紧缺到什么地步？我们到武汉的第一天是带着全套防护去的武汉协和医院，结果协和医院的医生看到我们戴着护目镜，他们特别羡慕。
For example, we all said that medical supplies were in short supply in Hubei Province, but how short was it? On our first day in Wuhan, we went to Wuhan with a full set of protective equipment, and the doctors at Concorde Hospital saw us wearing goggles.
再比如，听说武汉那边的医生每天工作10个小时以上，是无法感受到他们有多辛苦的。
For example, I heard that doctors in Wuhan work more than 10 hours a day, they can not feel how hard they are.
他们已经连续一个多月，每天工作超过12小时，甚至14小时以上，并且这种高强度、高压力、高危险的工作环境和状态，可能是我们普通人一辈子都不会经历的，那是生死时速。
They have been working more than 12 or even 14 hours a day for more than a month, and this high-intensity, high-stress, high-risk environment and state of work may not be experienced by ordinary people in our lives, it is a matter of life and death.
此外，雅迪做的是对口、精准援助。
In addition, Yadi is the counterpart, precise assistance.
前期同事们都是一家一家医院打电话去询问物资需求，通过全球采购医护物资，后期如果我们不“送货上门”，也对不起他们的辛苦排查和医院的翘首以待。
Previous colleagues are a hospital call to inquire about material needs, through the global procurement of medical supplies, if we do not "door-to-door", they are sorry for their hard-won troubleshooting and hospital expectations.
问：除了医护物资以外，雅迪还捐了10,000台新国标电动车，这样的捐赠其实很少见，出于何种考虑？答：确实如此。
Q: In addition to medical supplies, Yadi has donated 10,000 new national standard electric cars. What are the reasons for this? A: Yes.
雅迪向湖北捐赠了两类物资，一类是医护物资，像医用的口罩、手套、脚套、防护服、护目镜、酒精、专业的移动式医用空气消毒器、救护车等，另外就是1万辆符合新国标的两轮电动车和配套的保暖骑行手套。
Yadi donated two kinds of materials to Hubei, including medical masks, gloves, foot covers, protective clothing, goggles, alcohol, professional mobile medical air disinfectors, ambulances, and 10,000 two-wheeled electric vehicles that meet the new national standard and matching warm cycling gloves.
第一类医护物资，是救命用的。
Category 1 medical supplies, life-saving.
我当时去武汉市中心医院，医生们看到我们的物资，直接跟我们说：“你们捐的口罩是最好的。
When I went to Wuhan Central Hospital, the doctors saw our supplies and told us directly, "The masks you donated are the best.
”我们当时给他们送去了63,800个韩国KF94标准的独立包装的医用口罩。
We delivered them 63,800 individually packaged Korean KF94-standard medical masks.
这种高标准的医用口罩在医院经过专业设备消毒后可以重复使用，他们也只给最前线的临床战士们使用，非临床是一种非独立包装的防护口罩，只能用于其他科室，或者社区、街道、警察等进行社会管理和疫情防控的人们。
These high standards of medical masks can be reused by the hospital after being sterilized by specialized equipment. They are also used only by front-line clinical fighters. They are non-clinical, non-individually packaged face masks that can only be used by other departments, communities, streets, police, etc., for social management and disease control.
所以，他们其实不是缺口罩，而是缺可以在临床使用的独立包装的高标准的口罩，捐赠物资要能用在刀刃上。
So, instead of a notch mask, they lack a high standard mask that can be individually packaged for clinical use and that can be used on blades.
第二类新国标电动自行车和保暖手套，则是为了帮助医护人员和社会管理人员解决出行问题。
The second category of new national standard electric bicycles and thermal gloves is to help medical and social management personnel to solve travel problems.
我有朋友在武汉，没有进行交通管制之前，他们有很多志愿者可以接送医护人员们上下班，从那个时候开始，武汉的运力就已经严重不足。
Wuhan, where I have friends who had volunteers to take staff to and from work before traffic control began, has been woefully inadequate.
后来全面管制后，医护人员上下班时没有交通工具，有很多是自己走路或者骑车上下班，特别辛苦，即便是有私家车的，在新冠肺炎的传染性面前，汽车并不是安全的选择。
After extensive regulation, medical staff did not have transportation to and from work, and many of them walked or bicycled to and from work. Even for those with private cars, cars were not a safe option in the face of the contagious nature of pneumonia.
电动自行车不封闭，做好防护后相对来说是一个比较安全的出行方式，而且非常方便。
Electric bicycles are not closed, do a good job after a relatively safe way to travel, and very convenient.
我们在捐赠的时候也考虑到电池的续航能力，挑选的系列产品基本上能保证医护人员的出行。
We also consider the battery when donating, the selection of a series of products can basically guarantee the travel of medical staff.
并且雅迪考虑到武汉会存在车辆安装人力短缺的问题，所以有一部分电动车电池都是安装好的，整车运送过去，确保拿到车就可以使用。
And considering the shortage of capacity in Wuhan, some of the electric-car batteries are already installed and shipped to ensure that they are ready to be used.
问：10000辆电动车不是一个小数目，派发过程中有什么难点吗？答：一辆车安装一个电池大约需要20分钟左右的时间，10,000辆车花费的安装时间就很长了，这个工作量非常大。
Q: 10,000 electric cars is not a small number, are there any difficulties in the process? A: It takes about 20 minutes to install a battery in a car, and 10,000 cars take a long time to install.
而湖北一是不能人员聚集，二是人力非常短缺，也找不到那么多的人。
But Hubei one is not able to collect the personnel, the second is the manpower is very short, also cannot find so many people.
包括经销商、业务人员，还有我们自己都上阵了。
Dealers, business people, and ourselves are all in the game.
不仅要安装电池，还有负责装卸，尤其是安装电池后，50公斤左右的车要抬到货车上，不是个轻松的活。
Not only the batteries, but also the handling, especially after the installation of batteries, about 50 kg of the car to the truck, is not an easy job.
青壮年也没办法一连干好几天，我们业务来帮忙的同事腰都出问题了。
Young adults can not work for days at a time, our business to help colleagues have waist problems.
电动车的装卸车是需要技巧的，装卸50公斤左右的电动车，需要两名或者三名志愿者。
E-bike loaders are tricky, handling around 50 kg of electric cars, requiring two or three volunteers.
我们可以每人抬一辆，人效也会比较高。
We can carry one each and it will be more efficient.
再比如安装一个电池，熟练的师傅也就5~10分钟，慢的话一般来说20分钟也能安装好。
Another example is the installation of a battery, skilled teachers will also be 5 to 10 minutes, slow generally 20 minutes can also be installed.
但是如果志愿者来操作，时间更长。
But if volunteers were to do it, it would take longer.
所以为了节省人力和提高效率，我们都尽可能的多做一些事情。
So in order to save manpower and improve efficiency, we do as much as possible.
一线同事真的挺不容易，我们有一个负责物资中转的同事，他跟我说：“你说，有多少东西是咱们以前压根没干过的？”没干过，就边学边干，硬着头皮也要做，我们都是“综合体战士”。
Our front-line colleagues are really not easy, we have a transit colleague, he said to me: "You say, how much of the things we have never done before?"
我觉得其实这一次战疫过程中，所有人都是“综合体战士”。
I think actually in this case, all of them were "complex warriors."
问：听说你们还去了黄冈，进到黄冈以后，有什么感受？答：因为武汉是新冠肺炎的中心区，当时大家的关注度也都在武汉。
Q: I heard that you also went to Huanggang, after the Huanggang, how do you feel? A: Because Wuhan is the heart of the new crown pneumonia, people's attention was also in Wuhan.
但是像黄冈、孝感这样的城市，他们的物资紧缺程度，远远要超过武汉的定点医院。
But cities such as Huanggang and Xiaogan are far more in short supply than Wuhan Ding Hospital.
因为武汉的关注度非常的高，全国各地甚至全球资源都在向武汉集结，总体来讲，他们的物资已经非常多了，反倒是黄冈、孝感，他们的关注度非常低，物资紧缺的程度更胜武汉。
Because Wuhan's attention degree is very high, all over the country and even global resources are concentrated in Wuhan, in general, their supplies are already very much, but Huanggang, filial piety, their attention is very low, the degree of material shortages more than Wuhan.
并且，黄冈和孝感相对来说经济和医疗都没有武汉发达，面对不断上升的新冠肺炎患者，他们甚至没有能力大批量的自行购买医护物资。
Moreover, Huanggang and filial piety are relatively less economically and medically developed than Wuhan, and they do not even have the capacity to buy their own medical supplies in large quantities in the face of the rising incidence of pneumonia.
其实我们之前就启动了对黄冈和孝感的支援计划。
In fact, we started a support program for Huang Gang and filial piety.
最早的时候给黄冈送了医用手套，后来我们又陆续向黄冈援助了价值1000多万元的物资，包括医用口罩、护目镜、医用酒精、医用手套等医护物资，还捐赠了6辆救护车以及1000辆新国标电动自行车和配套的保暖手套。
Huang Gang was provided with medical gloves at the earliest time. Later, we successively provided more than 10 million yuan worth of materials to Huang Gang, including medical masks, goggles, medical alcohol, medical gloves, and donated 6 ambulances as well as 1,000 new national standard electric bicycles and matching warm gloves.
问：我们知道雅迪集团董事长是一名退伍军人，在本次疫情援助中，能否感受到军人精神对援助的影响？答：首先是董事长作为曾经的军人，他的家国情怀会更加强烈。
Q: We know that the chairman of Yadi Group is a veteran, can he feel the impact of military spirit on the assistanceA: First of all, as a former serviceman, the chairman of the Yadi Group will have a stronger sense of family ties.
他有强烈的民族自豪感和保家卫国的使命感。
He has a strong sense of national pride and a sense of mission in defending his country.
其次，在董事长带领下，我们公司也基本上属于军事化管理，雅迪的执行力也在这样的环境中历练出来。
Secondly, under the leadership of the chairman, our company is also basically a militarization of the management, Yadi's executive power in such an environment.
在日常工作中，不管是使命感，还是执行力，董事长对我们的影响都非常深刻，我觉得我们雅迪人“天生”就带有家国情怀和使命感。
In our daily work, whether the sense of mission or execution, the chairman of the Board of Directors of our impact is very deep, I think we Yadi "born" with a sense of family and mission.
在猎猎军旗下，他们的使命感和爱国情，跟我们普通人还是不太一样的。
Their sense of mission and love for the country is not the same as that of ordinary people.
就像有一首歌《假如战争今天爆发》写的那样，那群人“早已枕戈待旦，只待冲锋的号角吹响”。
As the song "If the war broke out today," the group "long ago rest on a pillow, waiting for the trumpet of charge blowing."
我在武汉和黄冈的现场也看到，在一线的除了党员，就是那些退伍军人，他们只不过是换了一种身份来保家卫国。
I also saw in Wuhan and Huanggang scene, in addition to the party members, is the veterans, they are simply a change of status to defend the country.
包括在我们日常的企业运行过程中，因为我们是一个有使命感的企业，有愿景的企业，每做一件事情，我们所有人的目标都是相同的，所有人都为了这个目标而努力。
It's included in our day-to-day running of the business because we're a mission-driven company, a visionable enterprise, and we all have the same goals for everything we do, and all of us work towards that goal.
这可能也是雅迪这个品牌能从一个竞争异常激烈的行业中脱颖而出，成为龙头企业的关键原因。
This may also be the key reason why the Yadi brand has emerged from a highly competitive industry to become a leader.
因为使命感会促使我们多做很多事情，并且是勇往无前地去做。
Because a sense of mission motivates us to do many more things, and to be brave and forward-looking.
正是有了一大批有着大无畏精神的企业，以及企业家带领的大无畏精神的人们，国家才会更加繁荣昌盛。
It is a group of intrepid businesses, and the fearlessness of entrepreneurs, that make the country more prosperous.
一个国家一定要有这样的有着大无畏精神的企业和人。
A country must have such a fearless enterprise and people.
后记：无私亦无畏。
Postscript: selfless but also fearless.
面对家人的不解、面对深入新冠肺炎重灾区的感染风险，以张博文、顾钱伟、钱加伟、陈利民、樊恩奇为代表的五人前线小组，以及一群“天生”带有家国情怀和使命感的雅迪人，仿佛用一件件抗疫物资，为武汉、为湖北、为中国筑起了一道防护墙。
Faced with the incomprehension of their families, facing the risk of infection in the heavily-hit areas of the New Crown Pneumonia, the five-member frontline group, represented by Zhang Bo-wen, Gu Qiangwei, Chen Limin and Fan Enqi, and a group of Yadi with a sense of family and mission built a protective wall for Wuhan, Hubei and China.
本文仅代表作者观点，不代表平台立场。
This paper only represents the author's point of view, not the platform's position.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口述 | 一位95后谈抗疫：我辈，当躬身入局。
Oral & # # 124; & # 45; A 95 Afterward Talk about Fighting Plague: My generation, as you bend over.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "口述 | 一位95后谈抗疫：我辈，当躬身入局";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "20多分钟的电话采访中，“使命感”这三个字被张博文提及了9次。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
