武汉启动“分级诊疗”后：社区医院物资短缺,有的护士防护服打上了补丁/* declared */。
Wuhan launched the "graded diagnosis and treatment": the community hospital material shortage, some nurses wear patched / * declared * /.
武汉启动“分级诊疗”后：社区医院物资短缺,有的护士防护服打上了补丁<br>。
Wuhan has started "graded clinics": community hospitals are short of supplies, and some nurses' suits have been patched or patched; br & gt;
| title       = 武汉启动“分级诊疗”后：社区医院物资短缺,有的护士防护服打上了补丁。
After Wuhan started its "graded clinic," there was a shortage of supplies at community hospitals, and some nurses' suits were patched.
武汉启动“分级诊疗”后：社区医院物资短缺,有的护士防护服打上了补丁。
Wuhan launched "graded diagnosis and treatment": community hospital material shortages, some nurses protective clothing has been patched.
李在磊​。
Li Zheng.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲一家定点医院输液室里，坐满了输液的病人。
A designated hospital infusion room, filled with patients infusion.
（李福荣/图）全文共2678字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2678 words and takes about 7 minutes to read.
“住院现在是非常大的问题。
"Hospitalization is a very big problem right now.
”定点医院武汉市汉口医院重症监护室一名医生说，只能寄希望于火神山医院快点建成。
A doctor at Hankou Hospital intensive care unit in Wuhan City said he could only hope the hospital would be completed soon.
“加强安保的措施是十分有必要。
"Measures to strengthen security are very necessary.
”一名医生说，发生过病人从重症室自行离开，回家取东西的情况。
One doctor said there had been cases of patients leaving the intensive care unit and returning home to get their stuff.
“这几天发生的很多事情，简直匪夷所思。
"Many of the things that have happened these days are unthinkable.
”目前社区医院最大的困难是物资短缺。
"The biggest difficulty at the community hospital right now is shortages.
护士把诊所牙科室的防护面罩改装后，罩在额头上。
The nurse altered the protective mask of the clinic dental unit and placed it over her forehead.
防护服质量堪忧，腿部、腰部出现破洞，她们拿胶带在衣服上打了很多补丁。
The quality of protective clothing, legs, waist holes, they took tape on the clothes made a lot of patches.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李在磊南方周末实习生 闫力元责任编辑 |何海宁丈夫在医院走廊躺了好几天后，罗小华终于获知了检测结果，丈夫核酸检测显示为阳性。
Li Yan-li, an intern at Southern Weekend, a reporter at Southern Weekend, was found to be positive after her husband spent several days lying in the hospital hallway.
随后，他们一直希望能够住院，但是没有床位，只得在废弃诊疗室、走廊里腾挪。
Subsequently, they wanted to be hospitalized, but there were no beds and they had to move around in abandoned dispensaries and corridors.
1月29日下午，医院通知她准备入住。
On the afternoon of 29 January, the hospital informed her of her readiness to move in.
罗小华很开心，她把消息告诉丈夫、儿子，希望能给丈夫一点鼓励、希望。
Luo Xiaohua is very happy, she told the news to her husband, son, hope to give her husband a little encouragement, hope.
但她没敢告诉丈夫的是，之所以有床位腾出来，是因为有一位病友刚刚过世。
But what she did not dare to tell her husband was that one of her sick friends had just passed away.
而在医院第一线防疫现场，医护人员都已精疲力尽。
At the hospital front-line epidemic prevention site, the medical staff are exhausted.
“住院现在是非常大的问题。
"Hospitalization is a very big problem right now.
”定点医院武汉市汉口医院重症监护室医生赵亮（化名）说，只能寄希望于火神山医院快点建成。
Zhao Liang, a doctor at Hankou Hospital's intensive care unit in Wuhan City, said he could only hope that the hospital would be completed soon.
他说，每天送诊的病人数量很多，他们组平均一天接收六七个病人，该组负责的病房收治病人数量已到极限。
He said the group, which receives an average of six or seven patients a day, is overwhelmed by the number of patients it attends.
此外，还有很多门诊病人无法收治。
In addition, many out-patients cannot be treated.
2020年1月24日，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部决定全面实行发热市民分级分类就医服务，将在定点医院发热门诊排队的轻度病患，向社区医院分流。
On January 24, 2020, the Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control Command decided to fully implement the classification of feverish citizens for medical services, and to line up at designated hospitals for minor patients, diversion to community hospitals.
“分级诊疗”启动后，武汉各大定点医院门诊排队的病人明显减少，但是，床位紧张的压力并没有缓解。
The number of patients queuing in out-patient clinics in major designated hospitals in Wuhan decreased significantly after the start of the graded clinics, but the pressure of bed strain did not ease.
相较而言，社区医院缺乏完善的诊疗设施，物资也比较短缺。
By contrast, community hospitals lack adequate diagnostic and treatment facilities and are in short supply.
1检测缓解，病床难求1月29日下午，定点医院武汉市第七医院的医务人员说，医院病床紧张，但是门诊依然可以就诊，首次就诊拿号排队，从别的地方转过来的病人，要带好自己的CT片子、血检报告。
1 Detection and relief, hospital bed difficult to access January 29 afternoon, Wuhan City Hospital, hospital staff said, hospital beds are tight, but outpatient clinics can still see patients, for the first time to get a queue, from other places to transfer patients, with their own CT, blood test report.
尽管在数天前，核酸检测试剂盒短缺已较为缓解，但依然供应有限。
Although the shortage of nucleic acid test kits eased a few days ago, supplies remain limited.
另一位医务人员告诉南方周末记者，核酸检测试剂盒数额有限，该医院一天只有100个配额。
Another medical worker told Southern Weekend that the number of nucleic acid test kits was limited and that the hospital had a daily quota of 100.
“目前我院病房及门诊‘留观室’均已收满，发热门诊照常接诊，重症住院的病人，请前往其他医院。
"At present our hospital wards and outpatient 'study rooms' have been filled, fever clinics as usual, severe hospital patients, please go to other hospitals.
敬请谅解。
Please forgive me.
”武汉市第七医院门诊大楼前张贴着“床位已满”的大幅公告，并附上通知，没有标注日期的公告“今天停止核酸检测”，张贴了好几张。
An undated notice, "Stop nucleic acid testing today," was posted in front of the clinic building of Wuhan City's Seventh Hospital, along with a notice that several of them had been posted.
一家定点医院门口贴出停止核酸检测的布告，但是没有注明日期。
A notice stopping nucleic acid testing was posted outside a designated hospital, but no date was specified.
（李福荣/图）除了试剂盒有配额限制外，新型冠状病毒感染肺炎核酸检测需3—5天才能出结果，没有纸质报告，检测结果以电话通知为准。
(RFR / Tu) Apart from the quota restriction in the kit, it will take 3-5 days for the new coronavirus to be tested for RNA infection. In the absence of a paper report, the test results will be confirmed by telephone.
结果阳性电话通知，结果阴性则不通知。
Positive phone call, negative results will not be notified.
病人或家属在采集样本时，需要留下准确的身份证信息和电话号码。
Patients or family members need to leave accurate identification information and telephone numbers when taking samples.
一位病人家属介绍，核酸检测虽然数量有限，至少提前预约可以排得上，现在最大的问题，还是床位紧张。
Nucleic acid testing, although limited in number, can be arranged at least in advance, one patient's family said.
他说，首先必须确诊后，才可以有资格住院，而且床位已满，新床位需要排队。
He said a diagnosis was needed before he could qualify for hospitalization and that the beds were full and the new beds needed to be queued.
拿到核酸检测的确诊结果后，需要报告至居所所在的居委会，居委会将病患信息汇总后向上报告，统一安排病房。
Nucleic acid test results, need to report to the residence where the neighborhood committee, the patient information will be summarized after the upward report, a unified arrangement of the ward.
同时，武汉热心市民自发组建的志愿者救助群里，充斥着“求床位”的刷屏信息。
At the same time, Wuhan, a group of volunteers spontaneously set up by the citizens, filled with "bed-seeking" screen information.
“都住满了，一床难求。
"" It's all packed. It's hard to get.
”一位病人家属说。
"said one patient's family.
2“加强安保十分必要”在第一线的医生，担忧的不仅仅是床位紧张。
"Security enhancements are necessary" Doctors on the front line are worried about more than just bed strain.
赵亮告诉南方周末记者，新型冠状病毒感染肺炎目前没有特效药，主要还是以支持治疗为主，环境、免疫力、条件设备对治疗效果影响非常大。
Zhao Liang told Southern Weekend reporter that the new coronavirus infection pneumonia does not have specific drugs, mainly to support treatment, the environment, immunity, conditions and equipment have a great impact on the treatment.
汉口医院离华南海鲜市场较近，早期将之设立为定点医院，首先考虑到便利性，但后来发现医院设施不甚理想。
Hankou Hospital is close to the South China Seafood Market. It was established as a designated hospital in the early days.
赵亮举例称，氧气供应是很大的问题。
Zhao Liang cited the supply of oxygen as a big problem.
病情严重的患者呼吸困难，在没有特效药的情况下，“氧疗”能否跟得上，是能够直接影响治疗效果的大问题，但是现在供应还是有困难。
Patients with severe breathing difficulties, in the absence of specific drugs, "oxygen therapy" can follow, can have a direct impact on the treatment effect, but the current supply is difficult.
“做好防护十二万分之重要。
"A hundred thousand precautions are essential.
”他对南方周末记者重申这一常识。
He reiterated this common sense to Southern Weekend reporter.
此前汉口医院医务人员有数名被感染，皆为早期不了解新型冠状病毒危害性，没做好防护的情况“倒下的”。
Before the Hankou Hospital several medical staff were infected, are not early to understand the hazards of the new coronavirus, not ready to protect the situation "down."
后来防护装备跟上之后，就没有再出现医务人员感染的病例。
There were no further cases of infection by medical personnel when the protective equipment followed.
他观察到，目前医院的隔离措施存在很大问题，病人家属在没做好防护措施下，出入门诊、重症室有很大风险。
He observed that the current isolation measures in hospitals were problematic and that there was a high risk of visits to outpatient and intensive care units by patients' families without adequate protective measures.
前期住院的病人都有家属陪护，现在再将他们分开，病人情感上很难接受。
Pre-hospital patients are accompanied by family members, now separate them, patients are emotionally difficult to accept.
他建议加强安保，派遣专职人员把守，将新就诊的病患家属与病人隔离。
He recommended that security should be strengthened through the deployment of dedicated personnel to separate the families of newly arrived patients from their patients.
“加强安保的措施是十分有必要。
"Measures to strengthen security are very necessary.
”他说，发生过病人从重症室自行离开，回家取东西的情况。
He said there had been cases of patients leaving the intensive care unit and returning home to get their stuff.
“这几天发生的很多事情，简直匪夷所思。
"Many of the things that have happened these days are unthinkable.
”3戴改造面罩、穿补丁防护服汉口区宝丰街卫生服务中心大厅，值班护士郑桂平都要先给来者检测体温。
In the lobby of Baofeng Street Health Service Centre in Hankou District, the nurse on duty, Jung Kwai Ping, takes the temperature test first.
实际上，在初期，发热病患就主要集中在社区医院，当时患者很多，社区门诊接诊压力很大。
In fact, in the early stages, febrile patients were concentrated in community hospitals, where the number of patients was high and the pressure to attend community clinics was high.
1月22日，社区医院曾接到通知，发热患者需要到定点医院集中诊治，体温超过37.3摄氏度的患者，需要前往定点医院就诊。
On 22 January, the community hospital was informed that patients with fever required intensive treatment at designated hospitals and that patients with a temperature exceeding 37.3 degrees Celsius needed to be referred to designated hospitals.
社区医院不再接受发热病人，定点医院发热门诊门口排起长龙。
Community hospitals no longer accept febrile patients, point hospitals have long queued up in front of the outpatient clinic.
1月24日，国家卫健委牵头成立联防联控工作机制，发布通知和试行方案，要求各地充分发挥社区动员能力。
On 24 January, the National Health Commission took the lead in establishing the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, issuing circulars and pilot programmes requiring communities to mobilize their capacities to the full.
随后，定点医院与社区医院联动的分级诊疗模式启动，轻度病患开始向社区医院分流。
Subsequently, the tiered mode of diagnosis and treatment was initiated, and the minor patients began to diverge to the community hospital.
现在，社区医院也要承担发热病人的诊疗任务。
Now, the community hospital should also undertake the task of diagnosis and treatment of febrile patients.
根据上述通告，武汉全市紧急征招6000台巡游和网约出租车，作为应急用车分配给中心城区1159个社区，由社区居委会统一调度使用。
In accordance with the above circular, Wuhan has urgently solicited 6,000 patrol and net taxis, which are distributed as emergency vehicles to 1,159 communities in the central city, and which are under the unified control of community neighborhood committees.
分级诊疗之下，社区负责全面排查社区内的发热病人，并将病人送至社区医院对病情进行筛查、分类。
Under tiered care, the community is responsible for the complete screening of febrile patients in the community, and the patients are referred to community hospitals for screening and classification.
对于需要到定点医院救治的病人，社区统一安排车辆送达指定医院；不需要送到发热门诊就诊的病人，由各社区落实病人在家自我隔离，社区负责做好市民居家观察服务工作。
For patients requiring treatment at designated hospitals, the community arranges for vehicles to be delivered to designated hospitals; patients who do not need to be referred to a fever clinic are referred to the community for self-isolation at home, and the community is responsible for home-based observation services.
汉口区宝丰街卫生服务中心主任医师杨庆红介绍，医院员工全部返岗，除了发热病患外，其它简单的疾病正常就诊。
Hankou District Baofeng Street Health Service Center director Yang Qinghong, hospital staff all back to work, in addition to fever patients, other simple diseases normal clinic.
他说，社区医院设备比较简单，没有CT机、没有呼吸机，更没有核酸检测试剂盒，只能做血常规检查。
He said that the community hospital was relatively simple equipment, no CT machine, no respirator, no nucleic acid test kit, can only do routine blood tests.
初次就诊，体温超过正常数值的病患，社区医院会给安排血常规检查，验血能够区分出是细菌感染，还是病毒感染。
For the first visit, patients with body temperature above normal values will be arranged for a routine blood test, which can distinguish between bacterial infection and viral infection.
如果是细菌感染，可以在社区医院就地治疗。
If the infection is bacterial, it can be treated locally in a community hospital.
杨庆红说，目前社区医院最大的困难是物资短缺，“衣服都破了”，同时，设施也比较简单。
Yang said the biggest problem at the community hospital is the shortage of supplies, "clothes are worn out" and the facilities are relatively simple.
“主要是换得比较勤。
'Mainly more frequently.
”郑桂平补充说，口罩相对充足一些，缺乏防护眼镜，她们自己到诊所的牙科室，把防护面罩改装后，罩在额头上。
Zheng added that the masks were relatively plentiful and lacked protective glasses, so they went to the clinic's dental unit and had their face masks altered to cover their foreheads.
防护服非常短缺，每个人只发放过一件，已经穿了几天，她们自己不放心，到社区医院的紫外线设备前照射，希望能起到杀毒效果，“心里踏实点”。
There was a severe shortage of protective clothing, one for each person, which had lasted for several days, and they were not confident that they would be exposed to ultraviolet radiation from the community hospital in the hope that it would have the effect of killing the virus.
此外，防护服质量堪忧，腿部、腰部出现破洞，她们拿胶带在衣服上打了很多补丁。
In addition, the quality of protective clothing, legs, waist holes, they took tape on the clothes made a lot of patches.
护士防护服的腿部已贴上胶布。
The nurse's protective clothing was taped to the legs.
（李福荣/图）到社区医院就诊的发热病人，一律登记信息，包括年龄、住址、家庭信息等内容，都要一一记录在案。
All febrile patients visiting the community hospital should have their registration details, including age, address and family information, recorded.
片区内如果发现确诊病患，社区医院的医务人员还负责登门，到病患家进行定期消毒。
If a confirmed patient is found in the area, the medical staff of the community hospital is also responsible for visiting the patient's home for regular disinfection.
特殊时期，前往社区医院就诊的病人的心态，也发生变化。
During special periods, the mentality of patients visiting community hospitals also changed.
“有的人感冒了，但是不敢说自己发烧了，一量还是发烧？说不准，还是要量。
"Some people catch a cold, but dare not say that they have a fever, a quantity or a fever? Not sure, or to measure.
”护士张雅欣说，轻度疑似病患，会开点药自行隔离。
Nurse Zhang Yaxin said the mildly suspected patient would prescribe some drugs to isolate herself.
每个区域安排两台车辆，重症病患则通知居委会，将病人送到定点医院。
Two vehicles are arranged in each area, and residents are notified of serious cases and sent to designated hospitals.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题  。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉启动“分级诊疗”后：社区医院物资短缺,有的护士防护服打上了补丁。
Wuhan launched "graded diagnosis and treatment": community hospital material shortages, some nurses protective clothing has been patched.
