特别报道 | 人手不足、强制复工，武汉面板厂为何不能停转？。
Special report & # 124; # 124; understaffed and forced to resume work, why can't Wuhan flour mill stop?
来莎莎 王珍。
Come to Shasha Wang Jen.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
作者 | 第一财经来莎莎 王珍在武汉当地，近一个月奋斗在一线的不仅仅有医护人员，还有芯片制造和面板厂的员工。
At Wuhan, Wang Zhen, the first financial services company, has struggled for nearly a month not only with paramedics, but also with employees at chip and flour mills.
“实在撑不住了。
"It won't last.
”TCL华星光电技术有限公司（以下简称“华星光电”）一线工程师李明（化名）告诉记者，从春节前留守公司工作至今，他未曾停工。
Li Ming, a front-line engineer at TCL China Star Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. told reporters that he had not stopped working for the company until after the Spring Festival.
李明正处于新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情的风暴中心——武汉。
Li Ming is in Wuhan, the storm center of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
他坦言：“现在这样平时两倍的工作压力已经持续了近一个月，可能还会再持续至三月，加上身处最严重疫区，物资餐饮需求无法完全满足的同时又担心被感染，很多人生理心理确实已经接近极限。
"The stress of working twice as often now has lasted for almost a month, possibly until March," he said. "Coupled with the fact that food and material needs cannot be fully met in the worst affected areas and the fear of infection, many people are approaching their limits physically and psychologically.
”华星光电部分员工对第一财经记者透露，为了快速补充人手替换一线员工，有一些部门已经开始采取“强制”返工措施，不复工按旷工处理，超过一定时期算自动离职，而这也引来部分员工强烈的抵触情绪。
In an effort to replace front-line workers quickly, some departments have taken 'mandatory' rework measures, whereby absenteeism occurs after a certain period of time, leading to strong resistance from some employees, according to China Star Optoelectronic employees.
第一财经独家获得的一份2月15日的华星光电通报称，截至2月15日20:00，武汉华星累计发现发热、咳嗽等异常情况共263人，均已送医治疗，其中经医院诊断排除218人，厂区宿舍自行隔离45人（其中密切或间接接触发热人员隔离25人），1例确诊病例。
As of 20: 00 on Feb. 15, a total of 263 abnormal conditions such as fever and cough had been referred to medical treatment in Wuhan, 218 of whom had been diagnosed by the hospital and 45 in the factory dormitory (25 of whom were quarantined by close or indirect contact with calorific people), according to a February 15 photoelectric notice issued by First Finance.
2月17日，第一财经记者就武汉工厂复工等询问华星光电，该公司表示暂时不予回应，称此前上市公司已就复工事宜发布过公告。
On February 17, the first financial reporter on Wuhan factory resumption of work and other inquiries Huaxing photovoltaic, the company said that the company temporarily did not respond, said that the listed companies have previously issued a notice on the resumption of work.
高强度运转近一个月据记者了解，不管是否在武汉，主要晶圆代工厂和面板厂在春节期间均正常运转，多家上市公司公告称受疫情影响不大，而这些制造工厂不停转背后，是一线员工长期的高强度运转。
High-intensity operation for nearly a month according to reporters, whether in Wuhan or not, the main wafer factory and the flour mill during the Spring Festival are normal operation, a number of listed companies announced that the impact of the epidemic, and these manufacturers constantly rotating behind the long-term high-intensity staff.
2月12日，TCL集团董事长李东生发布微博称，由于半导体显示产业制程特殊，需不间断生产，每天都有员工上班。
On Feb. 12, Li Dongsheng, chairman of TCL Group, issued a microblog saying that because the semiconductor display industry is a special process requiring uninterrupted production, employees work every day.
疫情压力下，深圳和武汉的TCL华星人依然在岗，保障工厂正常运转，特别是武汉华星工厂，由核心管理层带领7000员工坚守岗位。
Under the pressure of the epidemic, TCL Huaxing people in Shenzhen and Wuhan are still on duty, ensuring the normal operation of the factory, especially Wuhan Huaxing Factory, with 7,000 employees at the core of the management.
“因为武汉华星低温多晶硅显示屏占全球供应20%，停产对全球产业链造成冲击。
"Because Wuhan Huaxing low-temperature polysilicon display screen accounted for 20% of the global supply, production production on the global industrial chain impact.
且武汉已经封城，离开厂区风险可能更大。
Wuhan has been closed, leaving the plant may be more risky.
我们严格按照防控要求安排工作与生活，在保持工厂正常运转同时，厂区没有发生疫情。
We arrange work and life in strict accordance with the requirements of prevention and control. While keeping the factory running normally, there is no epidemic at the factory.
”▲李东生2月12日微博TCL科技称，2020年开年至今（2月11日），武汉华星t3面板产线持续满产，并于1月份提前完成岁修，目前产能50K/月，物料和人工可满足当前生产需要，产成品出货通道正常。
Li Dongsheng February 12 micro-blog TCL technology said that from the start of 2020 (February 11), Wuhan Huaxing t3 panel production line continued to full production, and January completed the year ahead of schedule, the current capacity of 50K / month, materials and labor can meet current production needs, the finished product shipping channel is normal.
2020年2月1日至2月10日，t3累计投片量与去年同期持平，预计2月将持续满产运营。
From 1 February to 10 February 2020, t3 cumulative filings remained at the same level as in the same period last year and are expected to continue operating at full capacity in February.
研究机构CINNO Research的报告显示，华星光电2019年在全球智能手机面板厂出货中排第六。
According to a report by research firm CINNO Research, Huaxing Optoelectronic 2019 was the sixth-largest smartphone maker in the world.
在2月17日给第一财经的书面回复中，该机构分析认为，武汉作为此次新冠肺炎疫情中心区，当地企业受到的经营和复工压力一定是最大的。
In a written response to First Finance on Feb. 17, the agency said Wuhan, as the epicentre of the new crown pneumonia epidemic, must be under the greatest operational and rework pressure on local companies.
由于面板前段同半导体厂一样都属于高自动化的生产线，人力需求量并不大，而面板厂后段模组产线的自动化程度远不如前段，人力需求较大。
As the front panel, like the semiconductor factory, is a highly automated production line, the demand for manpower is not large, and the production line of the rear section of the mill is far less automated than the previous one, and the manpower demand is larger.
可以看到的是，京东方和华星光电等都推出了临时工作岗位的招聘信息，主要都是补充质检、装配、仓储等站点的员工。
What can be seen, the Beijing Oriental and Huaxing optoelectronic and other temporary job recruitment information, mainly to supplement the quality inspection, assembly, storage and other sites staff.
武汉华星光电一员工王斌（化名）确认称，这批留守的员工从年前的1月22日持续工作到现在至少20天了，“正常情况下，春节值班最多到初六就可以休假，但是因为今年年前休假的人无法返回武汉，他们只能顶着。
Wuhan Huaxing photoelectric employee Wang Bin (not his real name) confirmed that the left-behind workers have been working for at least 20 days since January 22, the year before. "Under normal circumstances, the Spring Festival holiday can be taken up to the sixth day of junior high school, but since those who took vacations earlier this year cannot return to Wuhan, they have to bear the brunt of the holiday.
”留守期间，李明一周工作6天休息1天，平时正常工作时间从早8:30到17:30，轮到值班时则从早8:30至20:30。
Li Ming will take a six-day break for the remainder of the week, with normal working hours ranging from 8.30 a.m. to 17.30 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. to 20.30 a.m. when his turn comes on duty.
但是，由于目前员工只有正常状态的一半，因此工作强度也是正常的两倍，“实际加班的话也要到晚上，日均工作10-12小时。
But with employees now at half their normal levels and therefore twice as productive as normal, "the actual overtime takes place at night, averaging 10-12 hours a day."
”最主要的是对感染新型肺炎的担忧，在身心俱疲的状态下免疫力低下，更易被病毒侵入。
The main concern is the fear of new pneumonia, a weakened immune system that is more susceptible to viruses.
“由于行业特殊，员工需要在恒温恒湿的无尘车间维护设备正常运转，所以相当于所有员工在同一个密闭的中央空调系统里。
"Because of the special nature of the industry, employees need to maintain equipment in a constant temperature and humidity-free workshop, which is equivalent to all employees in the same closed central air-conditioning system.
一旦有员工感染，爆发式传播风险会很大”。
Once an employee becomes infected, the risk of explosive propagation is high.
李明说。
said Li Ming.
一般而言，晶圆制造厂和面板行业的无尘室洁净度要求较高，比外界更加安全，但如果有员工感染病毒，进入无尘室的工作人员本身就是病毒载体。
Generally speaking, clean rooms in the wafer and panel industries are more demanding and safer than outside, but staff entering the clean rooms are themselves carriers of the virus if employees are infected.
而且，李明指出，面板行业前段制程人员分布很稀疏，风险很小，但是后端制程（模组段）人员非常密集，“可以说是摩肩接踵，所以这一过程无法保证无尘室的过滤效率。
Moreover, Li pointed out that the front end of the panel industry is thinly distributed, with little risk, but that back-end processes (modules) are so densely populated that they "can be said to be heel-on-heel, so the process does not guarantee the efficiency of the clean room."
”强制返汉引争议换下长期留守员工迫在眉睫，如何尽快让返乡的员工快速上岗成了企业的重点任务。
"Forced return to the Han dispute to replace long-term staff is imminent, how to quickly return to the staff has become the focus of the enterprise.
李明表示，该公司通知，年前休假人员需在2月14日起返回公司上班，如无法上班，则开始记算考勤缺勤，需要通过调休或事假来补齐，否则算旷工。
Li Ming said the company informed people who had been on leave a year ago that they needed to return to work on February 14, and if they were unable to work, they would start counting absences for attendance, which would otherwise be counted as absenteeism.
有员工对第一财经提供的信息显示，一些部门通知2月18日之前员工必须返回公司，“要是当地政府有任何阻拦或者需要协助开证明，都可以反馈给公司，公司想尽办法给每个人解决”。
Some departments have informed First Finance that employees must return to the company before Feb. 18, "if there is any obstruction or need for help from the local government, they can report back to the company and do everything possible to give everyone a solution," said one employee.
不过，多名员工表示，所有带有强制性要求的通知都是通过微信群或电话传达，没有正式的文件通知。
However, a number of staff indicated that all notifications with mandatory requirements were communicated through the microphone group or by telephone, without formal notification of documentation.
对此，也有员工反映称，公司返岗并没有强制，只是很多部门私下操作。
To this, also has the employee to report, the company returns the post is not compulsory, only many departments operate privately.
返汉员工申请表等材料                  有员工表示，华星光电内部还有群建了“复工游击队”，有专人负责整理从各地返汉攻略，分享易放行的路线。
Return Han staff application forms and other materials staff said that there are also a group of photovoltaic "reinstated guerrilla groups," a person responsible for organizing from around the Han offensive, sharing easy-to-release routes.
在召集员工返汉复工的同时，也有员工表示，期待公司更进一步加强工厂疫情防控措施。
While calling employees back to work, some employees said they expected the company to step up measures to prevent and control the disease.
王斌对第一财经记者说：“传染源没有完全封闭。
Wang Bin told the first financial reporter: "The source of infection is not completely closed.
也就这几天开始，因为武汉开始封闭所有小区，所以公司让员工全部住宿舍，监测体温。
Also started in the last few days, because Wuhan began to close all small areas, so the company let all staff live in dormitories, temperature monitoring.
但是从1月22日到2月10日里，员工们大都是坐班车或开车往返的，下班以后在武汉接触了谁，有没有接触感染源，这并不可控，而大家还要每天吃食堂、住宿舍、坐班车，在一起开会 。
But from Jan. 22 to Feb. 10, employees often commute by bus or by car. Who they meet in Wuhan after work and whether they have contact with the source of infection are not controlled.
”在该公司内部流传的一个视频显示，2月14日， 在武汉华星T4综合楼食堂，晚饭高峰期时，人满为患，没有有效防护距离。
According to a video circulating inside the company, the canteen at Wuhan Huaxing T4 complex was crowded with people on February 14 during the height of the dinner season and had no effective protection.
不过，在2月17天下午5点的T3研发二楼食堂拍摄的图片显示，饭桌上装有隔板，用餐员工也较少。
However, pictures taken in the dining hall on the second floor of T3 research and development at 5 p.m. on 17 February showed partitions on the tables and fewer dining staff.
第一财经记者获悉，华星光电下发的返岗人员防疫管控办法显示，该公司对疫情防疫较为严格：员工提出返岗申请后，先判断疫区，再判断对应疫区相关的分级管理标准，报送环安处和行政处进行后续管理。
The first financial reporter was informed that the anti-epidemic measures issued by Huaxing Optoelectronic personnel showed that the company was strict in epidemic prevention: after an application for return to work, employees first judged the epidemic area and then judged the relevant grading management standards for the corresponding epidemic area, and submitted it to the Environmental Security Office and the Administration Office for follow-up management.
但有员工何冰（化名）表示，对于自驾回公司的员工而言，只要能顺利回来，有人前一天申请，第二天就可以打卡上班了，并没有隔离。
But an employee, He Bing (not his real name), says that for self-employed workers, anyone who made an application the day before could punch in the office the next day, and there was no segregation.
▲返岗人员分级标准王斌对此也表示诧异：“因为是武汉的企业，员工大多是武汉市和湖北省内孝感黄冈这些地区，有些同事就是开车往返，现在武汉很多小区都有感染病例，所以这些开车上下班的无法确定一定不会携带病毒。
"Wuhan enterprises, the majority of staff are Wuhan city and Huanggang Xiaoshuang these areas, some colleagues are driving back and forth, there are now many districts in Wuhan, so it is not certain that these drivers will not carry the virus.
”就在李东生发出“厂区没有发生疫情”微博的3天后，第一财经记者获得的一份2月15日的华星光电通报称，截至2月15日20:00，武汉华星累计发现发热、咳嗽等异常情况共263人，均已送医治疗，其中经医院诊断排除218人，厂区宿舍自行隔离45人（其中密切或间接接触发热人员隔离25人），1例确诊病例。
Just three days after Li issued the microblog "No Outbreak at the Plant," a February 15 photo-electric notice obtained by First Financial News said 263 people with fever and cough had been treated by Wuhan Huaxing as of 20: 00 on Feb. 15.
王斌说，这样的通报并没有让员工安下心来。
Mr. Wang said the briefing didn't reassure employees.
员工期待：多一些人文关怀武汉是我国面板产业重镇，汇聚了京东方、TCL科技、深天马三大头部企业的五条产线。
Wuhan is China's panel industry, the convergence of the Beijing East, TCL science and technology, deep Tianma three head enterprises five production lines.
面板行业和芯片制造业是我国近几年增长较快且前景广阔的行业。
Panel industry and chip manufacturing industry are fast-growing and promising industries in China in recent years.
由于行业的特殊性，晶圆制造厂和面板厂全年无休，一般在出货淡季维修与更新机台设备。
Due to the special nature of the industry, wafer manufacturers and flour mill year-round rest, generally in the off-season maintenance and renewal of machine equipment.
一方面，企业如果彻底停工，将对企业甚至中国面板行业带来巨大损失。
On the one hand, if enterprises completely shut down, enterprises and even the Chinese panel industry will bring huge losses.
李明表示，半导体行业生产线停工会导致机台精度、寿命受损，生产到一半的产品成为废品，重新复工需要极大成本。
Li said the shutdown of production lines in the semiconductor industry would result in loss of machine accuracy and life, with half of the products being made obsolete and the cost of restarting work prohibitive.
从企业而言，这类工厂的生产线和设备投资巨大，动辄几百亿。
From the point of view of enterprises, the investment in the production lines and equipment of such factories is huge, amounting to tens of billions.
如果停产，前期投资短期无法收回，并且很多设备会有闲置损坏风险。
If shut down, front-end investment cannot be recovered in the short term, and many equipment will have idle risk of damage.
信达证券电子行业首席分析师方竞指出，华星光电的T4产线和京东方的B17产线目前在产能爬坡中，受到疫情影响，爬坡速度会有所延后。
According to Atletico Fang, chief analyst at Cinda Securities, the T4 line of Huaxing Photovoltaic and the B17 line of Beijing Oriental are now on the ramp of production capacity and are affected by the epidemic, causing some slippage.
不过，面板厂产能开出放缓会加剧面板的供不应求。
However, a slowdown in the capacity of the mill will exacerbate the shortage of panels.
另一方面，员工的安全正受到影响，如果管控不当疫情也有继续大范围传播的可能，持续近一个月留守在工厂的员工也希望能够有喘息的机会。
On the other hand, staff safety is being compromised, and there is a risk that the epidemic will continue to spread widely if it is not properly managed, and employees who remain in factories for nearly a month are hoping for respite.
王斌对记者表示，自己不希望公司受到特别大影响，最主要的是两点诉求，一是能在家办公的全部在家办公；二是希望公司能最低产能运行，不要在这个时候还鼓励满产，太耗费人力，给在厂的同事减轻压力的同时，不要采取类似强迫的方式让外地同事复工。
Wang told reporters that he did not want the company to be particularly affected, the two most important is to be able to work from home, and the company can operate at the minimum capacity, not to encourage production at this time, too labor-intensive, to reduce pressure on colleagues in the factory, do not take similar forced colleagues back to work.
李明也对第一财经记者表示，员工不是不能理解公司，也不是在抵制工作和企业做对，只是希望特殊时期，能够少一点经济利益的追求，多一些对员工的人文关怀。
'Employees are not failing to understand the company, nor are they resisting the right thing to do with their jobs and businesses, 'Mr. Li told First Financial.
”他给记者算了笔账，有计划的减产对公司的影响有限。
He wrote to reporters about the limited impact of planned production cuts on the company.
“公司目前满产的产能是每月50K，就是50000片大板（一块大板长1.85米、宽1.55米，后期会切割成200-300块液晶屏幕，面板行业都是以大板来计算产能）。
"The company currently has a capacity of 50K per month, or 50,000 slabs (1.85m long and 1.55m wide), cut into 200-300 LCD screens at a later stage, and the panel industry calculates capacity using large panels.
如果2月按半产计算，月产能30K，那么全年出货量只少了3.33%，对整个公司利润影响其实不大；就算京东方、TCL科技、深天马等国内龙头2月全部半产，整个行业全年出货量只会少1.5%不到，因为只涉及武汉公司产能，国内其余城市可以正常生产。
If output in February is 30K per month at half capacity, then annual shipments are only 3.33 per cent smaller, with little impact on overall company profits. Even if domestic leaders such as Beijing Oriental, TCL Technology and Shenzhen Tianma were half-production in February, the entire industry would be less than 1.5% less than the full year, because only Wuhan company capacity, the rest of the city can produce normal production.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 人手不足、强制复工，武汉面板厂为何不能停转？。
Special report & # 124; # 124; understaffed and forced to resume work, why can't Wuhan flour mill stop?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 人手不足、强制复工，武汉面板厂为何不能停转？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Why & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在武汉，近一个月奋斗在一线的不仅仅有医护人员，还有芯片制造和面板厂的员工。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
