​保卫大武汉：决战时刻。
China Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Gazette [Issue No.36 2007]
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
层层战略部署之后，武汉保卫战已经开始。
After the layers of strategic planning, Wuhan defense has begun.
这是一场与病毒和传染源赛跑的立体战役。
This is a three-dimensional battle against the virus and the source of infection.
要想打赢这场战役，我们需要在时间上，跑在病魔之前，调集重兵，救治患者；在空间上，则要寻遍传染源，斩断传播途径，将其隔离。
To win the battle, we need to gather our troops and treat the sick before the disease. In space, we need to find the source of infection, cut off the routes of transmission and isolate them.
《三联生活周刊》第二本「新冠特刊」来了点击下图，即可线上购买点击上图，下单新冠特刊「武汉会战」本文记者 | 黄子懿 王梓辉 李秀莉举国之力对几乎每一个驰援武汉的人来说，出征号令都来得非常紧急。
This is the second issue of "The New Crown" by Triple Life Weekly. Click on the following picture. Click on the above picture to order the new crown issue of Wuhan Conference War.
1月22日晚，看着武汉不断上升的新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊和重症患者人数，浙江大学附属第一医院重症监护室副主任医师郑霞开始焦急起来。
On the evening of January 22, Zheng Xia, deputy director of intensive care unit of Zhejiang University's First Hospital, began to worry as Wuhan was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia and the number of seriously ill patients.
她向领导表示，愿意去武汉支援，“那里一定需要很多重症医生”。
She told the leader that she would like to go to Wuhan to support, "there must be a lot of doctors in serious condition there."
23日上午11点，武汉封城一小时后，她就接到国家卫健委的电话：“因为当前疫情紧急，需要您马上到武汉去支援，务必今晚到达。
23, 11 a.m., Wuhan closed the city an hour later, she received a phone call from the National Health Commission: "Because of the current emergency, you need to immediately to Wuhan to support, be sure to arrive tonight.
”郑霞立马收拾东西，下午4点坐高铁从杭州出发，晚上8点到达武汉周边某市，后被直接送至武汉金银潭医院。
Zheng Xia packed immediately and set out on a high-speed train from Hangzhou at 4 p.m., arrived in a city around Wuhan at 8 p.m. and was taken directly to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
郑霞对本刊说，从接到任务到出发，只有三四个小时准备。
Zheng Xia told the magazine, from the task to departure, only three or four hours to prepare.
请缨24小时之后，她就从杭州踏上了疫情一线。
She was on the verge of an epidemic from Hangzhou after 24 hours at home.
郑霞是最早支援武汉的外地医护人员之一。
Zheng Xia was one of the first foreign medical workers to support Wuhan.
与她几乎同一时间到达武汉的，还有来自上海、广州、北京等地的重症医学科中坚力量，来此救治金银潭医院收治的新冠肺炎重症患者。
She arrived in Wuhan at about the same time, and from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Beijing and other places in the critical medical science force, to treat the gold and silver pool hospital admitted to the serious patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
他们的到达，是全国驰援武汉的开始。
Their arrival was the beginning of the nationwide rescue of Wuhan.
2月14日，医务人员在金银潭医院隔离病房缓冲区呼叫同事。
On 14 February, medical staff called colleagues in the isolation ward of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital buffer zone.
| 远征 摄一天之后，上海、广东、陆军军医大学等5支首批成规模的医疗队飞抵武汉，四川、浙江、江苏等队伍紧随其后。
A day after the expedition, the first five large-scale medical teams from Shanghai, Guangdong and Army Medical University arrived in Wuhan, followed by Sichuan, Zhejiang and Jiangsu.
武汉封城第三日，就有14支队伍、1230名医护人员千里驰援。
Wuhan closed the city on the third day, there are 14 teams, 1230 medical personnel rushed to help.
武汉抗疫也就此成为2008年汶川地震后全国最大的一次支援行动，大批援军进驻，也让精疲力竭的武汉一线医护人员暂时有了片刻喘息。
Wuhan anti-epidemic has also become the country's largest after the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, a large number of reinforcements, the exhausted Wuhan first-line medical staff for a short respite.
进入2月后，举国驰援的行动走向高峰，来自全国29个地区的医护人员，以极快的出征速度，将支援范围扩大至整个湖北省。
In February, the national rescue operation peaked, with medical personnel from 29 regions of the country extending their support to the whole of Hubei province with great speed.
奔赴武汉的包机与高铁专列，在冬日步履不停，火线加速，仅2月8日～14日，就运送了1.3万驰援医护人员。
Wuhan-bound charter and high-speed rail lines, in the winter walking, the acceleration of the fire line, February 8 to 14 alone, transported 13,000 medical personnel.
国家卫健委副主任、湖北省委常委王贺胜说，截至2月14日，全国各地共派出了217支医疗队，25633名医疗队员支援湖北，其中在武汉的有181支队伍，20374名队员，这还不包括军队派出的医疗队。
As of February 14, 217 medical teams had been dispatched across the country, with 25,633 medical personnel supporting Hubei, 181 of them in Wuhan and 20,374 in Wuhan, not including medical teams sent by the army, said Wang He-sheng, vice-chairman of the National Fitness and Health Commission and a standing committee member of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee.
“这些都大大超过了2008年汶川特大地震医疗救援的调动规模和速度。
"All these far exceed the scale and speed of medical relief efforts following the devastating Wenchuan earthquake in 2008.
”“出发得都非常紧急。
"" It's all very urgent.
基本上就是给我们打完电话后，当晚或者第二天一早就得出发，准备时间非常短。
Basically, we have to start the night after we call, or early the next morning, and the lead time is very short.
”2月4日跟随国家紧急医学救援队来到武汉支援的北京某三甲医院医生莫睿对本刊说，他们当日赶到武汉，所要接手的方舱医院甚至都还没有建好，但所有医护队伍都要待命。
When they arrived in Wuhan on February 4, doctors from a certain triple-A hospital in Beijing who had come to Wuhan with the help of the national emergency medical rescue team told the magazine that they had arrived in Wuhan the same day to take over a hospital that had not even been built, but that all medical teams had to be on standby.
医院和患者尚未就位，前来驰援的医护队伍已然先到。
Hospitals and patients are not yet in place, and medical teams are arriving first.
2月17日，在武汉市红会医院重症隔离病区，一名劳累的护士在病房外靠着墙闭眼小憩。
On February 17, a tired nurse rests against a wall in the intensive care ward of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
| 远征 摄举国驰援的背后，是武汉自2月初启动的“应收尽收”攻坚战。
Behind the expedition, Wuhan launched its "Receivable" offensive in early February.
主战场的主阵将帅进行了相应人事调整，中央政法委秘书长陈一新担任中央指导组副组长，国家卫建委副主任王贺胜担任湖北省委常委。
The general manager of the main battlefield has made corresponding personnel readjustment. Chen Xinxin, Secretary-General of the Central Political and Law Commission, is vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group.
中央指导组下达“应收尽收、刻不容缓”的命令，要求武汉对“四类人员”（确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者）进行分类集中收治隔离，15家方舱医院先后启动，武汉市3000余个社区、村落被动员起来，挨家挨户排查。
The Central Steering Group issued an "all-receivable, urgent" order requiring Wuhan to classify and segregate "four categories of people" (confirmed patients, suspected patients, fever patients unable to exclude the possibility of infection, confirmed close contacts of patients), 15 cabin hospitals have been launched, Wuhan more than 3,000 communities and villages have been mobilized, door-to-door screening.
武汉从“封住城”，迈向了“锁住人”。
Wuhan from the "closure of the city," to "lock people."
与此同时，被人诟病的繁琐严苛的诊断标准下调，具有肺炎影像学特征的疑似患者以临床诊断病例纳入确诊名单。
At the same time, the much-maligned, onerous diagnostic criteria were lowered, and suspected patients with pneumonia imaging features were included in the list of clinically diagnosed cases.
大批存量患者的释放，让2月12日湖北省新增病例一度暴涨至14840例，其中临床诊断病例13332例。
The release of a large number of patients allowed the number of new cases to skyrocket to 14,840 in Hubei province on February 12, with 13,332 cases clinically diagnosed.
此前摸不透看不清的疫情底数，首次直接明晰地展现在公众面前。
Prior to the inexplicable epidemic number, the first direct and clear in front of the public.
“现在国家抗击疫情的态度已经很明确了，就是要把方方面面的资源都调动起来，所有人形成合力来做这件事，这是最关键的。
"The national response to the epidemic is now clear and it is crucial that all resources be mobilized and that all work together to do this," he said.
”上海市第二批援鄂医疗队队长、瑞金医院副院长陈尔真对本刊说，当前武汉的患者过多，其本身资源已很难应付这场战役，只有以举国之力，方可力拼一胜。
"There are too many sufferers in Wuhan at present, and its own resources are very difficult to cope with, and only with the strength of the whole country can we win," Chen Erzhen, vice-president of the Ruijin Hospital and leader of the second medical team in Huiyuan, told the magazine.
武汉抗疫，也是一场全民抗疫。
Wuhan anti-epidemic, is also a national anti-epidemic.
前中国疾控中心副主任杨功焕向本刊分析道，如果把武汉封城算作抗疫的第一节点，那么“当下是进入第二个关键节点了”。
Yang Gonghwan, former deputy director of the China CDC, told the paper that if Wuhan is counted as the first node in the fight against epidemic, then "it is time to enter the second key node."
在第一节点内，疫情仍在蔓延、形势愈发严峻，必须调整策略，加大驰援力度，救治已有患者，增加防控力度。
In the first node, the epidemic is still spreading and the situation is becoming more and more serious. It is imperative to adjust strategies, step up assistance, treat existing patients and increase prevention and control efforts.
这是历史上从未有过的对决，举国之力对决超级疫情。
This is unprecedented in history, the national power against the superepidemic.
而当前，正是决战的关键时刻。
Now is the moment of decisive action.
“可以说到了最吃紧的时候，是一种胶着对垒的状态。
"Can be said of the most tight time, is a kind of glued against the base of the state.
”国家卫健委疫情应对处置工作专家组组长梁万年说。
Liang Yuan, head of the national health committee's epidemic response team, said.
鏖战之下，中央指导组于2月14日下达命令：发起武汉保卫战、湖北保卫战全面总攻。
War, the Central Steering Group issued an order on February 14: launch the defense war in Wuhan, Hubei defense overall offensive.
“湖北、武汉是全国打赢疫情防控阻击战的决胜之地。
"Hubei and Wuhan are the decisive places in China to win the battle against epidemic prevention and control.
武汉胜，则湖北胜；湖北胜，则全国胜。
Wuhan Sheng, then Hubei Sheng, Hubei Sheng, then the national victory.
”重症攻坚“现在正是决战时刻，而不是决胜时刻。
Severe Acute Rescuers "This is a decisive moment, not a decisive moment.
”陈尔真认为，从决战到决胜，关键在于坚持分类集中的原则，“集中患者、集中专家、集中资源和集中救治”。
Chen argues that the key from the decisive battle to the decisive victory lies in adhering to the principle of clustering, "concentrating patients, experts, resources and centralized treatment."
他带领的团队支援武汉市第三医院光谷院区，主要负责救治重症患者。
He led a team to support Wuhan Third Hospital Guanggu courtyard area, mainly responsible for the treatment of serious patients.
疫情中心的武汉，让人关注的不仅有3万多的确诊病例，还有显著高于全国其他地区的重症率与病死率。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, is of concern not only for more than 30,000 confirmed cases, but also for a significantly higher rate of serious illness and death than the rest of the country.
截至2月15日，武汉的重症病例为8530例，占确诊病例（35314例）的24.2%，病死率为2.96%，均高于湖北和全国。
As of 15 February, Wuhan had 586 per cent of serious cases, 24.2 per cent of confirmed cases (35,314 cases), with a fatality rate of 2.96 per cent, higher than in Hubei and the whole country.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉对外解释，这是因为武汉最初只有3家重症患者定点医院，床位共110多张，严重不足。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health and Wellness Commission, explained that this was because Wuhan initially had only three seriously ill patients designated hospitals with more than 110 beds, seriously inadequate.
大量重症患者分散在20多家医疗机构，不利于管理，更不是由重症医学科的专业医疗团队进行救治，“这在一定程度上摊薄了优质医疗资源的力量，也是导致重症患者病死率比较高的因素”。
A large number of seriously ill patients are scattered in more than 20 medical institutions, which is not conducive to management, not to mention being treated by a specialist medical team in the field of severe medicine. "To a certain extent, this dilutes the power of quality medical resources and contributes to a higher fatality rate in severe cases."
1月底，武汉大学中南医院急救中心接收的新冠肺炎重病号。
At the end of January, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital emergency center received serious cases of new crown pneumonia.
| 蔡小川 摄很难想象，疫情面前捉襟见肘的武汉，本是全国人均医疗资源最丰富的地区之一。
It is hard to imagine that Wuhan, struggling with an epidemic, has one of the nation's richest per capita medical resources.
据官方统计，武汉市有三甲医院27家，每百万人拥有的三甲医院数量（2.44）名列全国第六。
According to official statistics, Wuhan has 27 hospitals in Sanjia, ranking sixth in the country in the number of triple-A hospitals per million people (2.44).
同时武汉高校众多，人均优质医疗资源更丰富。
At the same time Wuhan university numerous, per capita high-quality medical resources are more abundant.
然而在医疗体系内，重症监护室（ICU）本是稀有资源。
Within the health care system, however, intensive care units (ICUs) are scarce resources.
以武汉综合实力较强的武汉协和医院为例，其官网介绍，医院ICU床位只有55张。
Wuhan comprehensive strength of the Wuhan hospital as an example, its official network introduced that the hospital ICU beds only 55.
协和医院西院一位医生在微博上表示，其院区在疫情之初都没有ICU，却收治了很多重症病人。
A doctor at the Western Hospital of Concorde said on a microblog that its compound, which had no ICU at the start of the outbreak, had treated many seriously ill patients.
后来开放了20张ICU床位，很快就住满，每天有10～20位病人病危却转不进ICU，一些病人在等待中离去，这对医护人员打击很大。
When 20 ICU beds were opened and soon filled, 10 to 20 patients a day became critically ill but could not be transferred to the ICU, and some patients left waiting, which dealt a heavy blow to health care workers.
焦雅辉则透露，武汉疫情持续时间长，很多病例之前未得到及时救治，重症病例从发病到住院平均9.84天，错失最佳时机，在等待过程中由轻症变重症。
Jiao Yahui revealed that Wuhan epidemic duration, many cases have not been treated in time, serious cases from the onset of illness to hospital average 9.84 days, missed the best time, waiting for the process from light illness to severe.
为此，国家卫健委在2月4日强调，要把重症患者“集中救治”，将医疗资源和专家集中。
To this end, the National Health Commission on February 4 stressed that patients with severe illness "concentrated treatment," medical resources and experts will be concentrated.
在原有3所定点医院基础上，新开设武汉协和医院西院区、同济医院中法新城院区和武汉大学人民医院东院区，计划收治1000名重症患者，病房由从全国抽调的精锐重症团队整建制接管。
On the basis of the existing three designated hospitals, the new WUHANCWH WESTERN, Tongji Hospital, France Xincheng District and Wuhan University People's Hospital East Campus plan to treat 1,000 critically ill patients, with wards taken over by elite and intensive care teams drawn from all over the country.
截至2月17日，全国29个地区共派往湖北的3.2万名外地支援人员中，有1.1万名是重症专业的医生和护士，接近全国重症医务人员资源10%。
As of February 17, out of a total of 32,000 field support personnel dispatched to Hubei in 29 areas, 11,000 were doctors and nurses specializing in severe diseases, close to 10 per cent of the country's critical medical staff resources.
2月6日，武汉市蔡甸区人民医院隔离病房内，一名患者正在接受治疗。
February 6, Wuhan, Cai Den District People's Hospital isolation ward, a patient is undergoing treatment.
| 远征 摄2月3日，决定集中收治重症患者的前一天，作为首批到达武汉的重症专家，郑霞参加了国家卫建委的紧急会议，会议后，她与其他几位重症专家受命去武汉各定点医院评估需要转运的重症患者。
A day before the decision to concentrate on critically ill patients, Ms. Zheng attended an emergency meeting of the National Health and Construction Commission, the first serious health specialist to arrive in Wuhan. After the meeting, she and several other specialists were ordered to visit Wuhan's designated hospitals to assess serious patients in need of transshipment.
郑霞走访了黄陂区、青山区的8家医院，看到“重症病人非常多”，也有很多病人根本无法收进来。
Zheng Xia visited eight hospitals in Huangpi District and Qingshan District and saw that there were "many serious patients" and many patients could not get in at all.
“所有医生都很着急。
"All the doctors are in a hurry.
”郑霞对本刊说，很多定点医院并没有相应抢救条件，因为平日这些医院不会有很多需要氧疗和呼吸机的重症病人，但在应急时期却不得已收治了很多。
"Zheng Xia told the magazine that many designated hospitals do not have the corresponding rescue conditions because on weekdays these hospitals will not have a lot of patients in need of oxygen treatment and breathing apparatus, but during the emergency period had to accept a lot of treatment.
因条件所限，这些病人的病程被拖长，积压院内，院外则有大量病人收不进来，滞留在家，“所以这些医院的压力是非常大的”。
Due to the conditions, these patients are prolonged, backlogged courtyard, outside a large number of patients can not receive, stay at home, "so these hospitals are very stressed."
重症患者的积压也跟救治难度有关。
The backlog of severe cases is also related to the difficulty of treatment.
“病情变化非常琢磨不定，有时候会迅速恶化。
"The condition is very fluid and can deteriorate rapidly at times.
”郑霞说，新冠病毒狡猾，病情会在一个相对稳定时期后突然加速恶化。
Zheng Xia said the new crown virus was cunning and would suddenly accelerate after a relatively stable period.
比如上午一个病人情况似乎很稳定，晚上就可能在一次突然的高热甚至呼吸窘迫后，需要上呼吸机纯氧支持，乃至有创气管插管，“处理起来真的非常棘手”。
For example, if a patient seems to be stable in the morning, he or she may need pure oxygen support from a ventilator or even invasive trachea intubation at night after a sudden fever or even respiratory distress.
这与郑霞当年参与抢救禽流感重症患者很不一样。
This is very different from Zheng Xia who was involved in rescuing patients with severe avian influenza.
“‘甲流’在我们医院有一个比较高的救治率，那一批病人我们发现其实只要把他的肺用ECMO（体外膜氧合，又称‘人工肺’）撑住，很多病人慢慢养着，等肺功能修复，就能一步步熬过来。
"We had a high rate of treatment at our hospital, and we found out that by simply holding up his lungs with ECMO (External Membrane Oxygen, also known as' artificial lungs'), many patients slowly fend for themselves, waiting for the pulmonary function to repair and survive step by step.
”郑霞说，这次病情恶化的速度和程度远甚于甲流时期。
Zheng Xia said the deterioration was much faster and more severe than during the A-flow period.
曾参与过SARS重症病人救治的陈尔真则表示，新冠病毒肺炎总体病死率比SARS低，但重症患者不仅有严重的肺损伤，而且会波及其他器官，进而引发人体多器官衰竭。
Chen Erzhen, a former SARS patient, said the overall death rate was lower than SARS, but severe cases not only have serious lung damage, but also spread to other organs, leading to multiple organ failure.
这种情况下，重症专家们在ICU里的主要工作，就是尽一切可能维持患者呼吸、减少其他脏器损伤，去赢得一个时间窗口，等待患者自身免疫力的恢复。
In this case, the experts' main job in the ICU is to do everything possible to maintain the patient's breathing, reduce other organ damage, and win a window of time, waiting for the patient's immunity to recover.
这些手段包括氧疗、经鼻高流量氧疗、无创机械通气、有创机械通气、ECMO等功能支持手段。
These include oxygen therapy, transnasal oxygen therapy, non-invasive mechanical ventilation, invasive mechanical ventilation, ECMO and other functional support means.
“目前还没有特效药。
"There are no specific drugs.
”郑霞强调。
Zheng Xia stressed.
2月13日，金银潭医院隔离病房内忙碌的医护人员。
February 13, gold and silver pool hospital isolation ward busy medical staff.
| 远征 摄对重症患者的集中收治，医疗设备与资源就是武器，就像战场上冲锋的将士，离不开机枪与弹药。
Like soldiers charged on the battlefield, machine guns and ammunition are weapons in a concentrated effort to treat patients with serious illnesses.
其中氧气是必需品，但很多外地团队都在武汉遇到过供氧和设备难题。
Oxygen is a necessity, but many field teams have encountered oxygen supply and equipment problems in Wuhan.
后期到来的驰援力量，都加强了这方面的准备，带上了呼吸机、制氧机、ECMO等设备。
Later arrival of the rescue force, have strengthened this aspect of preparation, with breathing machine, oxygen machine, ECMO and other equipment.
然而，并非所有重症病人能如愿转院到新开的重症集中收治点。
However, not all patients with severe illnesses can be referred to newly opened intensive care centres as they wish.
郑霞说，当时的筛查评估只集中于确诊病人，也会考虑转院风险。
Zheng Xia said the screening assessment at the time focused only on confirmed patients and would also consider referral risks.
“筛查方向主要是已往重症方向发展，但能转运的病人。
"Screening is primarily directed towards patients who have advanced to the critical condition but are able to transport it.
”郑霞说，危重病人转运会有很高风险，不在转院之列。
Zheng Xia said there was a high risk that critically ill patients would be transferred outside the hospital.
所以重症救治，越早越好，防止病情从重症恶化为危重。
So severe treatment, the sooner the better, to prevent the disease from serious deterioration into critical.
“早期的救治非常关键，否则会加重疾病进展。
"Early treatment is critical if the disease is not to be exacerbated.
”陈尔真强调“早”，这不仅体现在重症治疗中，也关乎整个抗疫进程。
Chen stressed "early" not only in severe treatment, but throughout the fight against the disease.
由于重症救治需要大量人员与资源，当前还需将战线前移，建立普通患者进展为重症的早期识别和预警体系，确保有效干预，同时在防控中还要做到“早发现、早隔离、早治疗”。
As intensive care requires a large number of personnel and resources, there is a need to move forward and establish an early identification and early warning system for common patients to develop into severe cases, ensuring effective intervention and "early detection, isolation and treatment" in prevention and control.
扫描小程序，下单新冠肺炎专刊组合战线前移然而，武汉已错过“早”的时间点，在疫情之初，在封城之后。
Scanning small procedures, under the single issue of the new crown pneumonia portfolio front forward, however, Wuhan has missed the "early" point in the epidemic, in the early, after the closure of the city.
杨功焕说，眼下的“应收尽收”其实代表着武汉封城后早期所采取的策略的失败，传染源一直没有被控制，当地甚至一度处在“很无序的状态中”。
Yang said the current "receivable" actually represents a failure of the strategy adopted in the early years after the closure of Wuhan, where the source of infection had not been controlled and where there was even a "state of disorder."
防治传染病的主要策略有三步：发现并控制传染源、切断传播途径、救治患者。
The main strategies to control infectious diseases are threefold: find and control the source of infection, cut off the transmission route, and treat the patients.
如果将武汉抗疫看作一个战场，那么集中救治重症病人更像是集中兵力挖战壕、建堡垒，属守势。
If Wuhan anti-epidemic as a battlefield, then concentrated treatment of serious patients is more like the concentration of troops digging trenches, building fortresses, a defensive position.
要想真正歼灭敌人、赢得胜利，则需主动冲锋进攻——救治之外，控制传染源、切断传播途径同样刻不容缓。
In order to destroy the enemy and win the victory, it is necessary to take the initiative to attack - cure, control the source of infection, cut off the spread of the equally urgent.
封城前后的武汉，最初将7家中小医院作为定点医院，床位不足，后推行分级诊疗，将入院渠道下沉至社区，就医需经层层上报，大量患者滞留在家隔离。
Wuhan, before and after the closure of the city, will initially seven small and medium-sized hospitals as designated hospitals, beds are insufficient, then implemented a hierarchical diagnosis and treatment, access to hospitals to the community, through layers of reported, a large number of patients remain in isolation at home.
2月1日，中国工程院院士、呼吸病学与危重症医学专家王辰考察武汉，发现形势严峻，前期定点医院容量有限，大批患者无法收治而成为移动传染源。
On February 1, the Chinese Academy of Engineering academician, cardiology and critical medical expert Wang Chen visited Wuhan, found that the situation is serious, the pre-designated hospital capacity is limited, a large number of patients can not receive treatment and become a source of mobile infection.
王辰说，这是加剧疫情的“最重要的因素”，也是他当时面临的一个很大压力。
Wang said it was the "most important factor" that exacerbated the outbreak and that it was a great pressure he faced.
这种情况下，方舱医院被提出，用以收治数量更为庞大的轻症病人。
In this case, the square cabin hospital was proposed to accommodate a larger number of light patients.
方舱医院是一种“移动的诺亚方舟”，借用武汉的大型公共场所，布置简易床位，可解决床位不足的问题，尽管条件并不完善。
The hospital is a "mobile Noah's Ark," which borrows large public spaces in Wuhan and furnishes simple beds, albeit in imperfect conditions.
“这不是‘至善之策’，却是可取之策、现实之策。
"This is not 'the best policy', but the best policy, the practical solution.
”王辰说。
"said Wang Chen.
2月13日入舱前，医护人员穿戴防护服。
Before entering the cabin on 13 February, the medical staff were wearing protective clothing.
| 黄宇 摄“方舱最重要的功能其实还是隔离。
"The most important function of the cabin is actually isolation.
”国家紧急医学救援队的医生莫睿在有1500多张床位的武汉客厅方舱医院工作。
"Doctors with the National Emergency Medical Rescue Team worked in the Wuhan Living Room Fang Hospital, which has more than 1,500 beds.
他说，方舱医院收治的病人症状很轻，内部条件也有限，无法做复杂检验与治疗，“连输液也不行”。
He said patients admitted to the cabin hospital had mild symptoms and limited internal conditions to perform complicated tests and treatments, "not even infusion."
作为医生，他一般只能开些口服药物，更重要的是监测和观察病人的生命体征，“稍微重一点就转走”，确保方舱病人“零死亡”。
As a doctor, he can only prescribe oral medicine, more importantly to monitor and observe the patient's vital signs, "a little bit too heavy to turn away," to ensure that the cabin patient "zero death."
莫睿从2月8日起在武汉客厅工作。
He started working in the Wuhan living room on February 8.
国家队负责的B厅有400多个床位，方舱初开，就转瞬即满。
The national team is responsible for more than 400 beds in Hall B, the first cabin opened, immediately filled.
“病人很多，第一天差点累死。
"Lots of patients, almost dead on the first day.
”莫睿说，原本打算首日只收50个病人，但最后来了100多个。
He said she had intended to accept only 50 patients on the first day, but more than 100 had arrived.
初步问诊后，莫睿发现，很多病人病程较长，来方舱时已有10多天症状。
After the initial consultation, Murray found that many patients with a long course of illness, came to the cabin has more than 10 days of symptoms.
“家庭聚集性感染的很多”，有多对夫妻同时入驻方舱的，“甚至还有一家三口都来的”。
"There are a lot of sexually transmitted infections in the family," and many couples live in the cabin at the same time. "There's even a family of three."
在武汉负责帮助求助患者的志愿者付贤说，家庭聚集性感染占到了他所接求助的30%左右。
Fu Xian, a volunteer in Wuhan who helps patients find help, says family-focused infections account for about 30 percent of the calls he receives.
而方舱医院之外，武汉仍有数量庞大的疑似病例在外徘徊。
In addition to the Fang cabin hospital, Wuhan still has a large number of suspected cases wandering outside.
从防控角度而言，他们都可能是移动的传染源，属“应收尽收”的“四类”人员。
From the point of view of prevention and control, they are likely to be mobile source of infection, "receivable" of the "four categories."
2月6日起，中央要求武汉举全市之力上门排查“四类”人员，要求不落一户、不漏一人，将重任落在社区。
From Feb. 6, Wuhan was asked by the central government to carry out a city-wide sweep of the "four categories" of people, the request does not drop a family, do not leak a person, the burden fell on the community.
社区在排查之后，负责将疑似病例安排到隔离点进行隔离。
After screening, the community is responsible for placing suspected cases in isolation.
自此，武汉形成了“金字塔”状的防治体系，重症救治在塔尖，收治轻症的方舱居中，而疑似患者的防控则交至社区，后者成为“金字塔”战阵的数量最为庞大的塔基。
Since then, Wuhan has formed a "pyramid-like" control system, with severe treatment at the spire, treatment of mild cases of the middle of the cabin, and suspected control of patients to the community, the latter become the "pyramid" battle array of the largest number of tower.
截至2月13日，武汉客厅方舱共有1223名工作人员，包括医生197人，护士839人。
As of February 13, Wuhan living room cabin has a total of 1,223 staff, including 197 doctors and 839 nurses.
其中省外驰援人员1114人。
Of these, 1,114 were from outside the province.
| 黄宇 摄武汉有1108万常住人口，分布在1287个社区和1883个村湾。
Wuhan, with a resident population of 11.08 million, is located in 1,287 communities and 1,883 rural areas.
自1月24日武汉将入院关口分流至社区后，后者就承受了不亚于医院的压力。
Since Wuhan shunted hospital admissions to the community on January 24, the latter has been under as much pressure as the hospital.
不止一个社区出现工作人员因惧怕感染或筛查压力而辞职的现象。
In more than one community, staff resigned out of fear of infection or pressure to screen.
成千上万人的排查量，结合着上报、转移、保障生活物资等工作，让社区疲于奔命，防控质量参差不齐。
Thousands of people inventory, combined with the reporting, transfer, guarantee of living materials and other work, so that the community rushed, the quality of prevention and control is uneven.
军令之下，依然难免盲区。
Military orders, still inevitably blind zone.
武汉东湖区一位社区书记就对本刊表示，只能尽最大努力做到全面排查。
Wuhan Donghu District on a community secretary on this print said, can only do their best to do a comprehensive inventory.
“有些人户口在这，但住在别处。
"Some people have accounts here, but they live elsewhere.
这些都叫空挂户，他们不来找我们，我们就不知道他们在哪儿。
These are called empty houses. If they don't come to us, we don't know where they are.
找不到人就没办法往上报，缺着。
There's no way to report if you can't find someone. Missing.
还有的人转进来后，只在派出所留有信息。
Others came in and left information only at the police station.
”这些都是工作的盲区。
These are blind spots at work.
此外，社区工作人员缺乏专业知识和防护设备，也增加了排查难度。
In addition, the lack of professional expertise and protective equipment for community workers also makes screening more difficult.
付贤向本刊透露，截至2月14日，他所在的志愿组织收到过574户相关求助信息，被收治入院的仅有171户，占29%。
As of February 14, his volunteer organization had received 574 calls for help, and only 171, or 29 per cent, had been admitted, Fou told the magazine.
“首先是缺乏床位，其次缺乏转运车辆。
"First there is the lack of beds, and secondly the lack of transshipment vehicles.
”付贤说，这种情况在2月14日之后有了改善，大批求助患者开始被收治入院。
The situation improved after February 14, when large numbers of patients seeking help began to be admitted to hospitals, Fou said.
因志愿服务繁忙，他暂未统计最新数据，称仍有少量患者没有被收治。
He did not keep up-to-date statistics on the number of patients who remained untreated because of the high level of volunteerism.
2月18日，钟南山院士在新闻发布会表示：“武汉停止‘人传人’，还是一个进行时。
"Wuhan to stop 'human-to-human', or a time in progress," academician Zhong Nan-shan said in a press conference.
”“与输入地相比，武汉感染者底数还没有完全摸清，蔓延扩散的规模也没有较为精准的估计预测。
"Compared with the importing areas, the number of infected Wuhan has not been fully understood, the spread of the spread of the scale also has no accurate estimates.
”2月12日，中央指导组副组长陈一新坐镇武汉疫情防控指挥部，表示武汉潜在被感染的基数可能还比较大。
On February 12, Chen Xinshen, vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group, sat down at Wuhan Control and Prevention Command headquarters, saying Wuhan's potentially infected base may still be large.
为此，他再次强调研究病床筹集问题，确保“应收尽收”，宁可“病床等人”，不能“病人等床”。
To this end, he re-emphasized the issue of research hospital beds, to ensure that "receivable", rather than "beds and other people," not "patients waiting for bed."
武汉方舱医院医护人员 | 远征 摄据武汉市疫情防控指挥部介绍，截至2月13日22时，武汉市定点医院床位数为13859张，火神山、雷神山床位数1159张，共计15018张。
As of 2200 hours on February 13, the number of beds at Wuhan Ding Hospital was 13,859, and the number of beds at Fangshen Mountain and Lei Shenshan was 1,159, a total of 15,018, according to Wuhan city's epidemic prevention and control command.
截至2月14日下午4点，武汉已投入使用的9家“方舱医院”共计床位7600余张，其他方舱在陆续开放中——从数字看，当时的床位数量仍无法满足武汉3万多的确诊病例，“应收尽收”道阻且长。
As of 4: 00 pm on February 14, Wuhan had put into use more than 7,600 beds in nine "square-cabin hospitals," and other compartments were being opened in succession - figures show that the number of beds at that time was still insufficient to meet the 30,000 confirmed cases in Wuhan.
2月15日，中央指导组再次强调，要千方百计增强收治能力。
On 15 February, the Central Steering Group re-emphasized that every effort should be made to increase treatment capacity.
与此同时，武汉多家医院启动改造，在大批增派驰援医护人员的基础上，几何级地增加床位能力。
At the same time, Wuhan launched a number of hospitals to reform, in a large number of additional medical personnel on the basis of a geometric increase in bed capacity.
2月20日前，武汉要储备10万张床位，其中重症床位1.4万，轻症床位3万，集中隔离点5.6万。
Wuhan will reserve 100,000 beds before Feb. 20, with 14,000 seriously ill beds, 30,000 light beds and 56,000 centralized ones.
背水一战般的动员下，多位志愿者都对本刊表示，“一床难求”的现象正在缓解。
Backwater-like mobilization, a number of volunteers have said to the print, "a bed is difficult to find" phenomenon is easing.
付贤和另一位志愿者都说，他们收到的求助已大幅变少。
Both Fu Xian and another volunteer said they had received significantly less help.
最初时，一天有好几百人求助，现在一天只有十几例，甚至个位数。
In the beginning, hundreds of people turned to for help a day, and now there are only a dozen or even single digits a day.
很多也是求助转院，而非收治。
Many also turn to referral rather than admission.
付贤说，“这是前所未见的”。
"This is unprecedented," said Fu Xian.
官方数据也显示，在存量被分类释放、收治隔离后，当前新增病例数量、重症率等都呈下降态势。
Official data also show that the current number of new cases, severe cases, and so on after the stock is disaggregated and isolated.
这是一场与病魔和传染范围赛跑的立体时空战役。
This is a three-dimensional battle against disease and contagion.
层层战略部署之后，总攻命令已经下达，决战一触即发。
After the layers of strategic planning, the general order has been issued, a decisive battle is imminent.
杨功焕说：“现在谈胜利还为时尚早，也不能说武汉就完全没有死角了，但至少人们的心里更有底了。
"It is still too early to talk about victory, nor can Wuhan be said to have no dead end, but at least people's hearts are more bottom," Yang said.
”（文中莫睿、付贤为化名）扫描小程序，即可下单「武汉会战」欢迎分享至朋友圈「武汉会战」更多精彩| 封面故事 |保卫大武汉：决战时刻（黄子懿 王梓辉 李秀莉）会师武汉：抢救重症患者（王珊）方舱“围城”（驳静）方舱医院的战时效率（驳静）医院与疾控，疫情时刻的角色再定位（张从志）张利，独自担责（王海燕）“大流行”的全球史（刘怡）| 社会 |热点：“钻石公主号”海上之困（张洁琼 李晓洁）调查：谢幕的垃圾填埋场（刘畅）| 经济 |市场分析：疫情结束后，会有更多的人去买房吗？（谢九）| 文化 |电影：韩国电影，从“忠武路”到好莱坞（宋诗婷）电影：奉俊昊：奥斯卡的闯入者（宋诗婷）电影：那些把韩国电影推向世界的导演（张佳婧）书与人：路内：有时候，小说太乐观（孙若茜）| 专栏 |邢海洋：新加坡模式可以借鉴吗？苗千：量子力学与概率袁越：非常时期的阴谋论卜键：《中俄天津条约》的抢签张斌：曾经消逝的东京奥运会宋晓军：“5G共识”与“中国优先”朱德庸：大家都有病作者档案黄子懿做好打持久战的准备26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@杰货王梓辉可慢慢而归26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：guitumanman个人微博：汉瑟姆WANG⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 115 ^ # 116 ^ # 116 ^ # 116 ^ # 116 ^ # 116 ^ # 116 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Zhang Jiaoren: At the end of this year, more and more people will be invited to join the circle of friends.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「武汉会战」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below, the next issue of the new crown special issue "Wuhan Conference War" read the original text, into the weekly bookstore, purchase the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue Portfolio.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​保卫大武汉：决战时刻。
China Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Gazette [Issue No.36 2007]
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "​保卫大武汉：决战时刻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; A guard of greater Wuhan: a decisive moment for & quot;;
var msg_desc = "层层战略部署之后，武汉保卫战已经开始。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; defence of Wuhan has begun after layers of strategic deployment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
