谁是第一个基因检测出的新冠肺炎患者？。
Who was the first gene to detect a patient with Newly Coronary Pneumonia?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
第三方检测机构测出首例“冠状病毒未分型”后，仅电话通知了医院。
Third-party detection agencies detected the first case of "coronavirus untyped," only the telephone notified the hospital.
三天后，第二例报告单上写着“SARS冠状病毒”。
Three days later, the second report card said "SARS coronavirus."
那时没人想到，这是一种来势汹汹的新型冠状病毒发起的攻击文|《财经》记者 信娜 王小《财经》记者 孙爱民编辑|王小一份名为“情况说明发热AAA”的单页Word文档，落款时间为2019年12月30日，记录了武汉两名肺炎患者的就诊情况。
No one thought it was a new, menacing coronavirus attack. A one-page Word file, titled "Fact Sheet Fever AAA," was compiled by Wang Xiaomin, a reporter with Caijing Wang. It was signed on December 30, 2019 and records the visit of two Wuhan patients with pneumonia.
截止目前已获得的信息，他们应当是最早一批被检测出被新冠病毒感染肺炎的病人。
The information so far available suggests that they should be among the first to be tested for Newcomovirus-infected pneumonia.
究竟谁是此次疫情的第一例感染或确诊病患，目前众说纷纭，尚待权威机构进一步确认。
There is a wide range of opinions on who is the first infected or confirmed case of the disease, which has yet to be confirmed by an authoritative body.
根据中日友好医院副院长曹彬等科研人员2020年1月24日发表在《柳叶刀》的论文，早期41例确诊病例显示，第一例新冠肺炎患者于2019年12月1日出现症状。
According to a paper published in The Lancet on January 24, 2020 by Cao Bin, vice-president of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, 41 early confirmed cases showed symptoms in the first case of New Crown Pneumonia on December 1, 2019.
从上述2019年12月30日的文档记录中可见， 65岁的张志（化名），是最终确诊为新冠肺炎的早期患者之一。
Zhang Zhi (not his real name), 65, is one of the early patients finally diagnosed with Newcrown Pneumonia, according to the above-mentioned document dated December 30, 2019.
他已退休，此前曾在武汉市区内的华南海鲜市场工作。
He has retired and previously worked for the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan.
2019年12月13日，张志因受凉发烧，体温最高至39.1℃，发热前有寒战，但无鼻塞、流涕、呼吸困难、咳嗽等症状。
On 13 December 2019, Zhang Zhi developed a fever with a temperature of up to 39.1 degrees Celsius. He had chills before fever but no symptoms such as stuffy nose, runny nose, dyspnea or cough.
张志到武汉市中心医院门诊挂号，接诊医生给他开了口服抗生素药物。
Zhang Zhi went to the central hospital in Wuhan City out-patient registration doctors gave him oral antibiotic drugs.
5天后，他高烧仍不退，妻子王丽便和他再度来到中心医院。
Five days later, he still had a high fever, his wife Wang Li and he went to the central hospital again.
当日，他入住急诊病房。
On the same day, he was admitted to the emergency ward.
《财经》记者获得的一份住院记录显示：张志住院日期为2019年12月18日，住院当日被诊断为“社区获得性肺炎、重症”，其他诊断为呼吸衰竭、糖尿病等。
Zhang Zhi was hospitalized on December 18, 2019, diagnosed as "community acquired pneumonia, severe illness" and other diagnoses as respiratory failure, diabetes, etc., according to a medical report obtained by Caijing.
经过4天常规抗感染治疗后，张志仍然持续高烧。
After 4 days of routine anti-infection treatment, Zhang Zhi still has a high fever.
2019年12月22日约两点半，张志被转入武汉市中心医院呼吸科监护室。
At about 2: 30 on December 22, 2019, Zhang Zhi was transferred to the respiratory ward of Wuhan Central Hospital.
一位知情人士对《财经》记者介绍，张志进入呼吸监护室时情况已比较严重。
A person familiar with the matter told Caijing that Zhang Zhi entered the respiratory ward when the situation was more serious.
此前，在急诊病房，医生曾为他做了一些抗感染治疗，采用阿莫西林克拉维酸钾、奥司他韦及乐松片对症治疗。
Earlier, in the emergency ward, doctors had given him some anti-infection treatment with amoxicillin clavate, oseltamivir and lezone tablets.
阿莫西林克拉维酸钾属于抗生素，用于敏感细菌感染所致疾病，对病毒感染无效；奥司他韦仅对流感病毒有效；乐松片适用于急性上呼吸道炎症的解热镇痛。
Potassium amoxicillin clavate is an antibiotic used for diseases caused by sensitive bacterial infections and not for viral infections; oseltamivir is only effective against influenza viruses; and lezone tablets are suitable for antipyretic analgesia of acute upper respiratory tract inflammation.
但张志高烧仍未退。
But Zhang Zhi fever is still high.
“我们当时很着急，怎么还没有退烧？”王丽说，医院每隔几天就换新的治疗药物，都没用，也没检查出来到底是什么原因。
"We were in such a hurry, why hasn't the fever subsided?" Wang said, adding that it was useless for the hospital to change the medication every few days and didn't find out what the cause was.
当医生告知张志，需要给他做其他检查来确定病原体。
When the doctor told Zhang Zhi that other tests were needed to identify the pathogen.
那时没有人会想到这是一种来势汹汹的新型冠状病毒发起的攻击。
No one would have thought that this was a new, aggressive attack on coronavirus.
确定病原体2019年12月24日11时，武汉中心医院给张志做了肺泡纤维支气管镜灌洗取样，并将样本送到一家第三方检测机构进行NGS检测。
Confirming Pathogen On December 24, 2019 at 11: 00, Wuhan Central Hospital gave Zhang Zhi a pulmonary alveolar fiberoptic bronchoscope and sent samples to a third-party testing facility for NGS testing.
NGS是一种检测方法，可对样本进行基因组测序，分析序列信息，被视为检测的“金标准”。
NGS is a kind of detection method, which can sequence genomes, analyze sequence information, and be regarded as the "gold standard" of detection.
一位武汉某三甲医院呼吸科医生解释，科室内比较重的病人，如果做了常见病原筛查仍无法确诊，会考虑做这种检测以确定病原体。
A ventilator at a Wuhan Sanjia hospital explained that heavy patients in the department who had been screened for common diseases but could not be diagnosed would be considered for the identification of pathogens.
还没等拿到检测结果，“老公已经受不了，持续高烧，无法呼吸，身体吃不消了”，王丽回忆。
Before getting the test results, "my husband can't take it anymore, I have a high fever, I can't breathe, I can't eat my body," Wang recalled.
2019年12月25日清晨，在签字出院后，王丽便带着张志来到华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院，“希望他到大医院接受更好的治疗”。
In the early morning of December 25, 2019, after signing out of hospital, Wang Li and Zhang Zhi came to Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Tongji Medical School of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
武汉某基因检测公司一名工作人员解释，这项检测一般需三个工作日才能得到结果。
Wuhan gene testing company a staff member explained that the test generally takes three working days to get results.
按照这个时间推算，2019年12月27日，张志的检测结果应当可以反馈至武汉市中心医院。
According to this time calculation, Zhang Zhi's test results should be able to be fed back to Wuhan Central Hospital on December 27, 2019.
这家第三方检测机构，“没敢给书面报告，只是电话通知，说是冠状病毒”。
The third-party testing agency, "did not dare to give a written report, just a phone call, said it is coronavirus."
武汉市中心医院急诊科一名医务人员告诉《财经》记者。
Wuhan central hospital emergency department of a medical staff told Caijing.
彼时，还没有新型冠状病毒的检测试剂盒，只有SARS检测试剂盒。
At that time, there was no new-type coronavirus detection kit, only the SARS detection kit.
相比试剂盒和CT片，NGS是更为准确的鉴定病毒的方法。
NGS is a more accurate method of identifying viruses than test kits and CT scans.
中日友好医院副院长曹彬与武汉金银潭医院、北京地坛医院等机构的科研人员，2020年1月24日发表在《柳叶刀》上的论文，分析了早期41例确诊病例显示，第一例新冠肺炎患者是2019年12月1日出现症状，患者的家属并没有发热与呼吸道症状，第一例患者与之后的其他患者没有流行病学关联。
In a paper published in The Lancet on January 24, 2020, researchers from Cao Bin, Vice-President of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, and Ditan Hospital in Wuhan analysed 41 cases of early diagnosis. The first case showed symptoms on December 1, 2019. The family did not have fever and respiratory symptoms.
《财经》记者获得的一份材料，证实了张志经历的这次基因检测结果为“冠状病毒未分型”。
A report obtained by Caijing confirmed that Zhang Zhi's genetic test results were "untyped coronavirus."
但在已经公开的信息里，这个“未分型”尚无人明确提及。
But this "untyped" has not been explicitly mentioned in the published information.
张志的检测结果也同步给了武汉市同济医院呼吸科。
The test results of Zhang Zhi were also given to the Department of Respiratory in Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
该院一名工作人员向《财经》记者证实，曾收到该病人的检测结果，但拒绝透露具体时间及后续治疗情况。
A staff member of the hospital confirmed to Caijing that he had received the patient's test results, but declined to disclose the exact time and follow-up treatment.
湖北省中西医结合医院呼吸与重症医学科主任张继先，被视为此次“疫情上报第一人”。
Zhang Jixian, director of respiratory and severe medicine department in Hubei Province, was considered the first person to report the outbreak.
她因第一个为疫情防控工作拉响警报，得到记大功奖励。
She received a credit for being the first to sound the alarm for disease control.
因2019年12月26日连续接诊数个症状相似病人，且均排除了已知常见病原体感染，张继先开始警觉。
Zhang became alert after receiving several patients with similar symptoms on December 26, 2019, all of whom ruled out infection with a common pathogen.
2019年12月27日，她将病人情况向业务院长夏文广、医院院感办和医务部作了汇报，医院随即口头上报给武汉市江汉区疾控中心。
On 27 December 2019, she reported the patient's condition to the Director of Operations, Xia Wenguang, the Hospital Office and the Ministry of Medical Affairs.
武汉市江汉区疾控中心一名负责传染病报卡审核的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，最初的几家医院，可能将病情口头报给了江汉区疾控中心的领导，但并未在传染病网络直报系统中填写、上报。
A CDC official in charge of infectious disease report card verification told Caijing that the first few hospitals may have verbally reported the disease to the CDC leadership in Jianghan district, but did not fill it in and report it to CDC.
“上周五（2019年12月27日）已有医院上报相关病例”。
"Last Friday (December 27, 2019) hospitals reported cases of the disease," he said.
武汉市疾控中心一位工作人员在2019年12月31日接受《财经》记者采访时曾说。
A staff member of Wuhan CDC told Caijing News on December 31, 2019.
接着几天，张继先再度接诊了数位相似病人。
A few days later, Zhang received several similar patients again.
2019年12月29日，张继先所在的医院组织专家会诊后，直接向湖北省卫健委疾控处，与武汉市卫健委疾控处报告。
On December 29, 2019, Zhang Jianxian's hospital organized an expert consultation and reported directly to the Hubei Wei Jiawei Disease Control Office and the Wuhan Health Care and Prevention Bureau.
武汉市中心医院一位医生告诉《财经》记者，听说了湖北中西医结合医院上报的事情，但那个时候他们只是接诊了几个疑似的患者，“我们已经把病毒测出来了”。
A doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing that he had heard from Hubei Chinese and Western medicine combined with hospital reports, but by that time they had treated only a few suspected patients.
住院期间，张志分别接受了三种抗感染药物治疗，美罗培兰、大扶康和去甲万古。
In-patient, Zhang Zhi received three different anti-infection drugs, Metro-Pei Lan, Dafukang and Nokwangu.
但情况仍未好转。
However, the situation has not improved.
“我们医院接收的第一例患者，并不是这次疫情的第一例。
"The first patient admitted to our hospital was not the first case of this outbreak.
”武汉中心医院某科室一名工作人员告诉《财经》记者。
Wuhan Central Hospital, a staff member told Caijing.
与张志相似，2019年12月27日接近17时，一名患者刚由武汉市江夏区人民医院呼吸科转入武汉中心医院，与张志有相似的症状：高烧不退，抗感染治疗效果不佳：胸部CT显示重症肺炎。
Similar to Zhang Zhi, on December 27, 2019, a patient has just been transferred from the Department of Respiratory Services of the Jiangxia District People's Hospital in Wuhan to Wuhan Central Hospital.
从《财经》记者获得资料看，这名41岁的男性患者在2019年12月16日左右出现发热症状，最高体温达到39.5℃，发热6天后于2019年12月22日在江夏区人民医院呼吸科住院治疗5天，予以抗感染治疗，体温控制不住，才转院到武汉中心医院。
According to Caijing, the 41-year-old male developed fever around December 16, 2019, with a maximum temperature of 39.5 degrees Celsius. He was hospitalized for five days after fever at the People's Hospital of Jiangxia District on 22 December 2019.
2019年12月27日下午18时，在武汉中心医院呼吸科重症监护室，这名患者也被安排做支气管镜灌洗NGS检测。
On 27 December 2019, at 18: 00 p.m., the patient was placed in the respiratory intensive care unit of Wuhan Central Hospital, where he was also scheduled to undergo a bronchoscopic NGS test.
三天后，即2019年12月30日，医院拿到第三方公司的送检结果，化验单上写着“SARS冠状病毒”字样。
Three days later, on December 30, 2019, the hospital received the results of a third-party company's laboratory test, and the slip said "SARS coronavirus."
这一检测结果在第一时间被上报到该医院的公共卫生科和院感控部门。
The results were first reported to the hospital's public health and sensorial departments.
2019年12月28日，武汉市中心医院后湖院区接诊了4例和华南海鲜市场有关的发热病人。
On 28 December 2019, four cases of fever related to the South China seafood market were admitted to the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital.
第二天，急诊科向医院公共卫生科上报了这4例，公共卫生科上报给了汉江区疾控中心。
The following day, the emergency department reported the four cases to the public health department of the hospital, which reported them to the Han River CDC.
2019年12月30日下午，武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮把检测报告发在一个专业医护人士为主的微信群，随后相关信息被其他人截屏对外散发。
On the afternoon of December 30, 2019, Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, sent the test report to a microcosm of professional medical professionals.
最后三天2019年12月29日上午，武汉同济医院的医生通知张志家人，病人需转到金银潭医院，并提示其家人戴好口罩，“怕这个病有传染”。
The last three days On the morning of December 29, 2019, doctors at Wuhan Tongji Hospital informed Zhang Zhiya that the patient needed to be transferred to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital and urged his family to wear a mask.
王丽回忆，当时医生也戴着口罩。
The doctor was wearing a mask, Wang recalled.
当时张志的病情持续恶化，已开始插管治疗。
Zhang Zhi's condition continued to deteriorate at that time and intubation treatment was initiated.
接连几辆救护车因未配相关设备，无法转运，他们只能等到2019年12月30日。
Successive ambulances could not be transferred because they were not equipped to do so, and they had to wait until 30 December 2019.
王丽回忆：那一天，还有四五个病人也陆续转到了金银潭医院。
On that day, four or five patients were transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
依据中国疾控中心、湖北省疾控中心、香港大学等学者于2020年1月29日在《新英格兰医学杂志》发表的论文：最初的4个病例，是2019年12月29日，经由2003年SARS之后建立起来的 “不明原因肺炎监测系统”上报的，这4个病例均与武汉市内的华南海鲜市场有关系。
According to a paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29, 2020 by the China CDC, Hubei Province CDC and the University of Hong Kong, the first four cases were reported on December 29, 2019 by the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System set up after SARS in 2003.
因此该论文将2019年12月8日列为新冠肺炎的首例发病日，当天有一个病例，但与武汉市华南海鲜市场没有接触史。
So the paper listed December 8, 2019 as the first day of onset of pneumonia, with a case but no history of exposure to the South China seafood market in Wuhan.
经过22天后，2019年12月30日晚，武汉市卫健委发布了一条紧急通知，主题为“报送不明原因肺炎救治情况”。
After 22 days, on the night of December 30, 2019, Wuhan city health committee issued an emergency notice, the theme of "reported unidentified pneumonia treatment."
其中写道：根据上级紧急通知，武汉市华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人。
According to the emergency notice, the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan City has been suffering from unexplained pneumonia.
2019年12月31日下午一点左右，武汉市卫健委发布通报：已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重，“经多方分析，上述病例系病毒性肺炎”。
At around 1 p.m. on December 31, 2019, Wuhan city health committee issued a notice: 27 cases have been found, seven of them serious, "after multi-analysis, the case is viral pneumonia."
在检测得出结论“冠状病毒未分型”后，2019年12月30日，张志住进了收治传染病病人的武汉金银潭医院。
After the test concluded that the coronavirus was untyped, Zhang Zhiyin was admitted to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on December 30, 2019.
王丽与丈夫以门相隔，再未相见。
She was separated from her husband by the door, and never saw her again.
医生告诉王丽，张志得了一种病毒性肺炎，“目前病情比较严重，你们要24小时等通知，他随时可能有生命危险。
The doctor told Wang Li that Zhang Zhi was suffering from a viral pneumonia. "It is serious and you have to wait 24 hours for him to be informed that his life could be in danger at any time.
”此后王丽便没再得到任何消息，家人只能寄希望于哪天能侥幸联系上医生，探知张志的一点信息。
"Wang Li has not heard from anyone since, and the family can only hope that one day they will be able to contact the doctor and find out more about Zhang Zhi.
他们陷入空等，“没底，全家人心里都没有底”，王丽说：“很难受。
They are stuck in the middle of nowhere, "Wang said." It's hard. "
”直到新年农历正月初六（2020年1月30日），王丽接到了医生的电话。
"Wang Li received a call from her doctor on the sixth day of the first month of the New Year, or January 30, 2020.
“7点20分，第一通电话说，丈夫在抢救”，王丽准确回忆起这通电话的时间，“20分钟后又来电话，人已经不在了”。
"At 7: 20, the first phone call said that the husband is in the rescue," Wang Li accurately recalled the time of the call, "20 minutes later called again, the person is no longer there.
王丽提出要去医院为丈夫送一件衣服，被拒绝了。
Wang Li asked to go to the hospital to send her husband a suit, but she was turned down.
医生告知：家属不能来，上午10点钟可以来拿死亡证明，医生再次提醒：“这个病可能会传染”。
The doctor told him that his family could not come and that he could come at 10 a.m. to get his death certificate.
2019年12月31日上午，国家卫健委派出的专家组抵达武汉，进行检测核实。
On the morning of December 31, 2019, a team of experts appointed by the State Health arrived in Wuhan to conduct the inspection and verification.
当日下午1点，武汉市疾控中心一位工作人员告诉《财经》记者，市疾控中心已检测完标本，省疾控中心正在组织专家对病例标本进行复核。
At 1: 00 pm, a staff member of Wuhan CDC told Caijing that the CDC had finished testing the specimen and that the CDC was organizing an expert review of the specimen.
“武汉市华南海鲜市场陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人，危险吗?”一位调至广州工作的武汉病毒专家在这天清早便接到家人的电话，询问会不会存在危险。
"Is there any danger of pneumonia in south China seafood market in Wuhan?" A Wuhan virus expert who transferred to Guangzhou early this morning received a call from his family asking if there was any danger.
从华南海鲜市场步行不到五分钟，可至武汉市优抚医院。
South China Seafood Market from less than five minutes walk to Wuhan Youcai Hospital.
该院工作人员2019年12月31日接受《财经》记者采访时说，海鲜市场出现的部分疑似病人曾去武汉市中心医院（后湖院区）就诊，后转院至武汉市金银潭医院。
The hospital staff told Caijing on December 31, 2019. Some of the suspected patients in the seafood market had gone to Wuhan Central Hospital (Houhu courtyard) for medical treatment and were transferred to the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan.
“截至2020年2月11日，全国共报告44672例确诊病例，有0.2%的病例发病日期在2019年12月31日之前，病例均在湖北。
"As of February 11, 2020, a total of 44,672 confirmed cases have been reported nationwide, with 0.2% of cases occurring before December 31, 2019, all in Hubei.
”中国疾控中心研究员张彦平等人，于2020年2月17日在《中华流行病学杂志》上发表的论文如此描述。
Zhang Yan, a researcher at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, described the paper in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology on February 17, 2020.
按这篇论文的数据计算，2019年12月31日前，湖北可能已有约89例病例报告。
By 31 December 2019, according to this paper, about 89 cases may have been reported in Hubei province.
2019年12月31日，武汉市卫健委通报称，上述病例系病毒性肺炎。
On December 31, 2019, Wuhan city health committee informed that the above cases are viral pneumonia.
“到目前为止调查未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染。
"So far no significant human-to-human transmission has been observed and no medical staff have been infected.
目前对病原的检测及感染原因的调查正在进行中。
At present the detection of pathogen and the cause of infection are under investigation.
目前，所有病例均已隔离治疗，密切接触者的追踪调查和医学观察正在进行中，对华南海鲜城的卫生学调查和环境卫生处置正在进行中。
Currently, all cases have been isolated for treatment, close contacts are being followed up and medical observations are being made, and a sanitary survey and disposal is under way in Hai Xian City, South China.
”幸运的是，张志的家人每日贴身照顾，但并未感染，“只是遗憾，没能送他走”。
Fortunately, Zhang's family, who were not infected with the infection, "just regretted not being able to take him away."
2019年的最后一天，“武汉可能出现SARS病例”的传言喧嚣尘上。
On the last day of 2019, rumors of a possible SARS case in Wuhan raged.
对“不明原因”肺炎是SARS的猜测，在传言中被迅速放大。
Speculation that "unidentified" pneumonia was SARS was quickly blown up in rumors.
当日，武汉市华南海鲜批发市场仍正常营业。
On that day, Wuhan South China Seafood Wholesale Market is still open normally.
张志生前虽已退休，也常去市场内会一会熟人，聊聊天，打打牌，他一般都是中午12点多去，晚上5点多回家。
Although Zhang Zhi retired, but also often go to the market for a meeting of acquaintances, chat, play cards, he is usually more than 12 noon, more than 5 p.m. home.
这天，位于武汉市华南海鲜市场西区的一家海鲜商行告诉《财经》记者，早上7点照常营业，没受影响。
A seafood firm in the western part of Wuhan's South China Seafood Market told Caijing it was open for business as usual at 7 am.
下午3点，海鲜市场东区的一家商铺也在正常营业，“情况没有网上传得那么严重”。
At 3 p. m., a store on the eastern side of the seafood market was also open, "not as bad as it got online."
（《财经》实习记者朱贺对此文亦有贡献；文中张志和王丽均为化名）（本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing intern Zhu He also contributed to this article; both Zhang Zhi and Wang Lie are aliases) (This article was written by Caijing magazine, the author of this article, published in today's headlines without authorization.)
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁是第一个基因检测出的新冠肺炎患者？。
Who was the first gene to detect a patient with Newly Coronary Pneumonia?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "谁是第一个基因检测出的新冠肺炎患者？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Who was the first person with gene-detected pneumonia?;
var msg_desc = "第三方检测机构测出首例“冠状病毒未分型”后，仅电话通知了医院。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Only the hospital was notified by telephone after a third-party test group detected the first case of coronavirus untyped.
三天后，第二例报告单上写着“SARS冠状病毒”";。
Three days later, the second report says "SARS coronavirus" and ";
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
