除了瑞德西韦，这三种药也可能成为新冠肺炎的“解药”。
In addition to Rhetsevir, these three drugs may also become the new crown pneumonia "antidote."
谢欣。
Xie Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：谢欣  编辑：许悦“ 不要鸡蛋装在一个篮子里，包括法维拉韦、氯喹/羟氯喹、托珠单抗等药物也将进行临床试验，验证其对新冠肺炎的效果。
Source: Toothworm Editor: Xie Yue: "Do not put eggs in a basket, including Fawlavir, chloroquine / hydroxychloroquine, tozhumaine, and other drugs will also be tested for their effect on new crown pneumonia.
”从克力芝到瑞德西韦、从双黄连到各种中药汤剂，自从新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，业界寻找“特效药”的脚步就未曾停止。
From Kaletra to Rhetsevir, from Shuanghuanglian to various traditional Chinese medicine soups, the industry's search for "miracle cures" has not stopped since the outbreak of the outbreak.
截至2020年2月18日，国内已有超过100项与新型冠状病毒有关的临床试验注册登记，其中绝大多数为药物干预临床研究。
As of February 18, 2020, more than 100 clinical trials related to the new coronavirus have been registered, the vast majority of which are clinical studies of drug intervention.
除去已纳入国家版诊疗方案的抗病毒药物利巴韦林、洛匹那韦、干扰素及糖皮质激素，和已是众所周知的瑞德西韦外，还有哪些药也存在治疗新冠肺炎的潜力呢？根据相关报道与药效机理，抗流感病毒药法维拉韦（法匹拉韦favipiravir）、抗疟药氯喹/羟氯喹、自身免疫类疾病药物托珠单抗（Tocilizumab)有可能成为瑞德西韦外的第二种可能。
With the exception of the antiviral drugs ribavirin, lopinavir, interferon and glucocorticoid, which have been incorporated into the national version of the diagnosis and treatment regimen, what other drugs have the potential to treat New Crown Pneumonia? According to relevant reports and pharmacodynamics, the antiviral drug chloroquine / hydroxychloroquine, the autoimmune drug Tocilizumab may become a second possibility outside Rhetsevir.
法维拉韦“火线上阵”科技部生物中心主任张新民于2月15日介绍，经过遴选和初筛，选定了100个左右的药物开展新型冠状病毒的体内活性实验。
Zhang Xinmin, director of the biological center of the Ministry of Science and Technology, selected and screened about 100 drugs for the new coronavirus in vivo, said Zhang Xinmin, director of the biological center of the Ministry of Science and Technology.
在此基础上，科研攻关组聚焦到少数几个药品，如磷酸氯喹、伦地西韦（瑞德西韦）、法匹拉韦（法维拉韦）等，先后开展临床试验，目前部分药物已经初步显示出良好的临床疗效。
On this basis, the research team focused on a few drugs, such as chloroquine phosphate, Rendicavir (Rhetsevir), Fabiravi (Favilavir), etc., some of which have initially shown good clinical efficacy.
次日，国家药监局有条件批准海正药业法维拉韦片上市，用于抗流感相关适应症治疗。
The following day, the State Administration of Pharmacy conditionally approved the listing of Haizheng Pharmaceutical Favoravir tablets for the treatment of influenza-related indications.
法维拉韦片是一种RNA聚合酶（RdRP）抑制剂类的广谱抗流感病毒药物，而新冠病毒也是一种RNA病毒。
Favoravir tablets are a broad-spectrum antiviral drug in the form of RNA polymerase (RdRP) inhibitors, while the new crown virus is also a RNA virus.
法维拉韦由日本富山化学工业株式会社研发，2014年在日本上市用于治疗新型和复发型流感，成为日本的国家战略储备药物。
Developed by the Japanese company Fukuyama Chemical Industry Co. Ltd., it was marketed in Japan in 2014 for the treatment of new and relapsing influenza, becoming Japan's national strategic reserve drug.
2016年海正药业与日本富山化学工业株式会社签订了化合物专利独家授权协议，本次获批的法维拉韦片为国内首仿产品，值得注意的是，从法维拉韦片药品注册正式受理到完成审批仅用了10天左右的时间，据悉是按照新《药品管理法》第26条中所指“对于治疗严重危及生命且无有效治疗手段的疾病以及公共卫生方面急需的药品...可以附条件批准”所进行的优先快速审批。
In 2016, Haizheng Pharmaceutical signed an exclusive licensing agreement with Japan Fukuyama Chemical Industry Co. Ltd., and the approval of the Fawlavi tablet is the first domestic imitation product. Noteworthy is the fact that it took only about 10 days from the formal registration of the drug to its completion.
法维拉韦片的药品注册批件审批结论中也明确提及“为应对新冠病毒肺炎疫情，根据《药品管理法》、《药品注册管理办法》等...附条件批准生产本品”。
"In response to the outbreak of pneumonia due to the new crown virus, this product is approved under the Pharmaceutical Administration Law, the Measures on the Administration of Pharmaceutical Registration, etc."
界面新闻获悉，实际上海正药业也是在新冠肺炎疫情发生后，于春节前进行相关讨论后紧急向国家药监局报产法维拉韦。
Interface News learned that in fact, the new crown pneumonia industry in the New Crown Pneumonia after the relevant discussions before the Spring Festival to the State Administration of Pharmacy and Supervision of the delivery of the law of Villawi.
海正药业也紧急申报并拿到了法维拉韦片用于治疗新冠肺炎的临床试验批件。
Haizheng Pharmaceutical also made an emergency declaration and obtained a clinical trial certificate for the use of Fawlavir tablets in the treatment of Newcrown Pneumonia.
公司公告表示，根据《药品管理法》、《药品注册管理办法》和《药品特别审批程序》，经特别专家组评议审核，应急批准本品进行临床试验。
According to the company's announcement, the product was approved for clinical trials on an emergency basis under the Pharmaceutical Administration Law, the Measures on the Administration of Drug Registration and the Special Approval Procedures for Pharmaceuticals, subject to review and approval by a special group of experts.
适应症为新型冠状病毒肺炎。
The indication is a new coronavirus pneumonia.
2019年新修订的《药品注册管理办法》中增加了《药品加快上市注册》章节，其中第一条规定“在发生突发公共卫生事件的威胁时以及突发公共卫生事件发生后，国家局可以依法决定对突发公共卫生事件应急所需防治药品实现特别审批”。
The newly revised Measures for the Administration of Drug Registration in 2019 have included a chapter on Accelerated Listing of Medicines, which stipulates in article 1 that "in the event of a threat of a public health emergency and following a public health emergency, the State Bureau may, in accordance with law, decide to achieve special approval for the prevention and treatment of emergency medical emergencies."
界面新闻记者此前获悉，目前国家药监局已经开启针对新冠肺炎药品特别审评通道并成立特别专家组进行前期审议。
Interface journalists have been informed that the State Administration of Pharmacy has opened a special review channel for new crown pneumonia drugs and set up a special panel of experts for the preliminary review.
目前已至少有15件各类申请提交，7件提交特别专家组审议、3件报送国家药监局。
At least 15 applications of various types have been submitted, 7 to the Ad Hoc Group of Experts for consideration and 3 to the National Drug Control Administration.
据悉，该注册性临床试验将是一个全国多中心随机双盲对照临床试验，计划入组几百例患者，分别在现有标准诊疗方案之下增加法维拉韦片或安慰剂治疗，承办医院包括浙江大学医学院附属第一医院、武汉、深圳等地的医院等。
The registered clinical trial will be a national multi-center randomized double-blind controlled clinical trial in which hundreds of patients are scheduled to be added to the existing standard treatment regimen, including Fawlavir tablets or placebo, including hospitals affiliated with Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Wuhan, Shenzhen, etc.
事实上在此前就已有部分研究者紧急发起了关于法维拉韦在新冠患者的临床应用。
In fact, some researchers have been pressing ahead with the clinical application of farvelvee in patients with the new crown.
由国家感染性疾病临床医学研究中心、深圳市第三人民医院（南方科技大学第二附属医院）发起的法维拉韦治疗新型冠状病毒肺炎的临床试验中，从试验组和对照组共入组80例的初步结果显示：法维拉韦治疗组尚未发现明显的不良反应，副作用明显低于克力芝组，患者依从性好；治疗后抗病毒疗效优于克力芝组。
Preliminary results of 80 cases of coronavirus pneumonia initiated by the National Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases and Shenzhen Third People's Hospital (Second Affiliated Hospital of Southern University of Science and Technology) showed that 80 patients in the Favilavir treatment group did not find any significant adverse reactions, the side effects were significantly lower than that of the Kaletris group.
而此前法维拉韦片的药品注册批件中还提及法维拉韦存在溶出度问题，并要求后续完成餐后生物等效性研究，海正药业方面对界面新闻回应称，法维拉韦与参比制剂的药效学对比没有问题，空腹的结果是等效，餐后的还在做，溶出度的问题相关分析研究已经完成。
Previously, the drug registration documents for Fawlavir tablets also mentioned the existence of dissolution and requested follow-up on the post-dinner bioequivalence study. The industry responded to the interface news by stating that there was no problem with the pharmacodynamics of the favir versus the reference formulation, that the fasting results were equivalent, that the post-meal results were still being performed and that the analytical studies on dissolution had been completed.
磷酸氯喹/硫酸羟氯喹2月17日的新闻发布会上，科技部生物中心副主任孙燕荣再次提到“在临床上，我们非常确定地看到了（磷酸氯喹的）疗效，无论从重症化率、退热现象还是肺部的影像好转时间、病毒核酸的转阴时间和转阴率，以及缩短病程等一系列指标，进行系统地、综合研判，用药组优于对照组。
At a press conference on February 17, Sun Yanrong, deputy director of the Biological Centre of the Ministry of Science and Technology, said once again that "clinically, we are quite sure of the efficacy, whether in terms of severity, calorific use or lung imaging improvement, viral nucleic acid overcast time and transvaginal rate, and shortening course.
”2月18日，武汉大学人民医院也表示20例患者在使用硫酸羟氯喹后明显好转。
On February 18, the Wuhan University People's Hospital also reported a marked improvement in 20 patients after the use of hydroxychloroquine sulfate.
氯喹类药物也是目前为数不多的官方表示确定看到临床疗效的候选药物。
Chloroquine is also one of the few official drugs that has been officially shown to be a candidate for clinical efficacy.
实际上，羟氯喹与氯喹结构相近，作用机理非常相似，但羟氯喹比起氯喹半衰期更短，代谢较快，毒副作用较小，在临床使用的安全性、耐受性方面都有明显的提升。
In fact, hydroxychloroquine is similar to chloroquine in structure and the mechanism of action is very similar, but hydroxychloroquine has shorter half-life, faster metabolism and fewer side effects than chloroquine.
两者治疗作用相近，因此目前羟氯喹的临床应用也远比氯喹广泛。
The two treatments are similar, so the clinical application of hydroxychloroquine is much broader than chloroquine.
界面新闻获悉，实际上这两种药物目前国内主要产能均由上海医药提供，其中氯喹此前只有上海医药在正常生产，在新冠肺炎疫情发生之前主要由世界卫生组织采购，以及由卫健委疾控中心收作战略储备。
Interface News has learned that the two drugs are currently supplied by Shanghai Medicines, of which chloroquine was previously produced only in Shanghai, procured mainly by the World Health Organization before the outbreak of pneumonia, and used by the CDC as a strategic reserve.
不过随着氯喹的新冠肺炎的治疗作用被披露，国内多家拥有氯喹生产批文厂家也相继宣布复产。
However, with the disclosure of chloroquine's new crown pneumonia treatment role, China has a number of chloroquine production licensing manufacturers have also announced the resumption of production.
广东省已停产氯喹20年，但是截至2月18日上午，广药集团控股子公司光华药业宣布已经产出首批50万片磷酸氯喹。
Guangdong Province has stopped production of chloroquine for 20 years, but as of the morning of February 18, Guanghua Pharmaceutical, a subsidiary of Guangzhou Pharmaceutical Group, announced that it had produced its first 500,000 tablets of chloroquine phosphate.
同时，截至2月19日广东众生药业也已完成19.8万片磷酸氯喹的生产。
Meanwhile, as of February 19, 198,000 tablets of chloroquine phosphate had been produced by Guangdong's Anthropogenic Pharmaceutical Industry.
羟氯喹上，国内则仅有原研进口赛诺菲与上海医药两家拥有制剂生产批文，上海医药2019年半年报显示，羟氯喹（纷乐）国内市场占有率达76.67%。
Hydroxychloroquine, the only domestic research import Sanofi and Shanghai Medicines have approval documents, and HPM2019 shows that the domestic market share of hydroxychloroquine is 76.67%.
据文献报道，羟氯喹抗SARS、MERS病毒活性与氯喹基本相当。
It is reported in the literature that the activity of hydroxychloroquine against SARS and MERS is similar to chloroquine.
不过，氯喹类药物目前治疗新冠肺炎的机制尚不清楚。
However, the mechanism by which chloroquine is currently used to treat new crown pneumonia is unclear.
综合各种文献与报道，可能有以下几种：抗病毒：通过升高胞质内pH值，抑制包括冠状病毒在内的几种病毒复制的pH依赖步骤；或是通过影响丝裂原活化蛋白激酶(MAPK)和细胞外信号调节激酶(ERK)的活化，抑制新合成蛋白的脱包和/或翻译后修饰，从而抑制冠状病毒的感染和复制。
Combining various literatures and reports, there may be the following: antiviral: pH-dependent steps that inhibit replication of several viruses, including coronavirus, by raising pH in the cytoplasm; or inhibition of infection and replication of coronavirus by affecting the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK).
免疫调节：通过使胞质内的pH值升高，降低细胞表面抗原多肽的量，阻止抗原的加工。
Immunomodulation: By increasing the pH of cytoplasm, reducing the amount of polypeptide on cell surface antigen and preventing antigen processing.
抗炎：硫酸羟氯喹呈弱碱性，可升高溶酶体pH值，从而抑制促炎细胞因子（TNF-α、IFN-γ、IL-2和IL-4）的产生。
Anti-inflammatory: Hydroxychloroquine sulphate is weakly alkaline, raising lysosomal pH and thus inhibiting the production of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-Zine, IFN-Zine, IL-2 and IL-4).
这几种机制可能是用时在起作用的，在不同的阶段给新冠病毒的进入细胞与复制制造障碍，并抑制细胞因子风暴的发生。
These mechanisms may be time-dependent, creating barriers to entry and replication of the new crown virus at different stages, and inhibiting the development of cytokine storms.
2003年，《柳叶刀·传染病学》杂志曾发表文章谈到氯喹的抗病毒作用，建议可以将氯喹老药新用拿来治疗SARS。
In 2003, the journal Lancet Epidemiology published an article on the antiviral effects of chloroquine, suggesting that chloroquine could be used as a new treatment for SARS.
文中也曾提及氯喹可以抑制肿瘤坏死因子和细胞因子白介素IL-6的产生和释放，这也意味着氯喹有可能可以起到抑制目前导致许多重症新冠肺炎病人死亡的直接原因——细胞因子风暴的作用。
The production and release of chloroquine as a tumor suppressor of tumor necrosis factor and cytokine IL-6 has also been mentioned, suggesting that chloroquine may play a role in suppressing cytokine storms, the immediate cause of death in many patients with severe new crown pneumonia.
据了解，最开始是北京的科研单位在筛选可用老药的过程中筛选到了氯喹，科技部为此于1月29日联系上海医药。
It is understood that, initially, Beijing's scientific research units in the screening of available old drugs in the selection of chloroquine, the Ministry of Science and Technology on January 29 contact Shanghai medicine.
上海医药子公司上药中西随即调取了全部库存2.5万多盒氯喹，连夜送至科技部用于开展研究试验。
The Shanghai pharmaceutical subsidiary immediately withdrew the entire stock of 25,000 boxes of chloroquine, which was sent overnight to the Ministry of Science and Technology to conduct research experiments.
氯喹在其后的体外研究和临床试验中也都表现出一定的抗新冠病毒活性和疗效。
Chloroquine also showed some new crown virus activity and efficacy in subsequent in vitro studies and clinical trials.
由于羟氯喹与氯喹的化合物分子结构非常接近，但安全性要好很多，对于已有适应症的作用机理和疗效也相似，因此羟氯喹也很快进入了研究者的视野。
Hydroxychloroquine is very similar to chloroquine's molecular structure, but it is much safer and has similar mechanism and efficacy to the indication, so hydroxychloroquine also quickly entered the researchers' field of vision.
实际上，早在官方公开肯定氯喹/羟氯喹的治疗效果之前，就已有患者自行服用并且取得了积极效果。
In fact, patients were already taking chloroquine / hydroxychloroquine on their own initiative and achieved positive results long before the efficacy of the treatment was officially confirmed.
知乎用户“TheoZheng”在知乎上记载了已订婚女友的父亲近半个月来自行服用羟氯喹治疗的经历。
"Theo Zheng," the user, has written about his betrothed girlfriend's father taking hydroxychloroquine on his own for nearly half a month.
患者于1月24日开始发病，随后几天持续发热、频发干咳，实验室血液鉴定结果和CT结果显示病症高度疑似新冠肺炎，后由于武汉当地收治能力不够只能进行居家隔离。
The patient began developing symptoms on January 24, followed by a few days of persistent fever, frequent dry cough, laboratory blood tests and CT findings indicating a high level of suspected New Crown Pneumonia, followed by isolation due to a lack of local treatment capacity in Wuhan.
2月5日起，结合此前一些文献报道等依据，患者开始服用羟氯喹治疗，随后病情逐步稳定并出现好转。
From 5 February onwards, patients began to take hydroxychloroquine therapy, in combination with a number of previous literature reports, and then gradually stabilized and improved.
2月13日血检与CT结果积极，患者于2月16日完全停药。
Blood tests and CT results were positive on 13 February, and the patient stopped taking medication completely on 16 February.
停药前三日精神和状态都基本完全恢复正常。
The first three days of withdrawal were almost completely normal.
目前经社区干部同意，采取居家隔离观察措施。
At present, with the consent of community cadres, home isolation observation measures are taken.
目前上海市公共卫生临床中心、上海交大附属瑞金医院、武汉大学人民医院、北京大学第一医院、重庆医科大学附属第一医院和第二医院等都已相继启动了羟氯喹治疗新冠病毒肺炎的临床研究，试验对象包括轻中度患者、重症患者和危重症患者。
So far, the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, the Ruijin Hospital attached to Jiaotong University in Shanghai, the People's Hospital of Wuhan University, the First Hospital of Peking University, the First Hospital of Chongqing Medical University and the Second Hospital of Chongqing Medical University have all initiated clinical studies on the treatment of HPV pneumonia.
托珠单抗，能否缓解致命的细胞因子风暴目前在推测氯喹类药物的治疗新冠肺炎机制时有一点便是，其可以抑制肿瘤坏死因子和几种细胞因子的产生和释释放。
Whether tozhumento can alleviate the fatal cytokine storm At present, one of the ways to predict the mechanism of chloroquine in the treatment of new crown pneumonia is to inhibit the production and release of tumor necrosis factor and several cytokines.
根据此前国内媒体及《柳叶刀》相关报道，许多危重症新冠肺炎患者在后体内会突然发生炎症风暴，即细胞因子释放综合征，又称为细胞因子风暴（cytokine storm），这会导致患者病情在短时间内急剧恶化。
According to previous reports in the domestic media and The Lancet, many patients with severe new crown pneumonia suddenly develop an inflammatory storm in the body called cytokine storm, or cytokine storm, which causes the patient's condition to deteriorate sharply in a short time.
简单来说，在新冠病毒入侵人体后，人体的自我免疫开关被打开，抗击病毒的免疫细胞开始向外释放各种细胞因子刺激更多免疫细胞参与免疫，这些被刺激的免疫细胞也会继续释放更多细胞因子。
Simply put, after the new crown virus invades, the body's self-immune switches are turned on, and immune cells that fight the virus begin to release cytokines that stimulate more immune cells to participate in the immune system, and these stimulated immune cells continue to release more cytokines.
但在如SARS、埃博拉病毒引发的感染中，大量而迅速的细胞因子产生会形成细胞因子风暴，最终引来的是人体免疫系统对人体自身的攻击，它就像一种针对病毒的“自杀式攻击”，最终会导致低血压、凝血障碍、心肺肝肾等重要器官功能衰竭以及急性呼吸窘迫综合征，危及生命。
But in infections such as SARS and Ebola, massive and rapid production of cytokines, which eventually lead to attacks on the body by the body's immune system, acts as a "suicide attack" against the virus, ultimately leading to life-threatening organ failure such as hypotension, clotting disorder, cardiopulmonary liver and kidney failure, and acute respiratory distress syndrome.
《柳叶刀》1月25日发表的由武汉金银潭医院、中日友好医院、协和医科大学、北京地坛医院、武汉同济医院、武汉市中心医院、武汉大学中南医院、北京大学第一医院、北京大学人民医院等专家共同撰写《2019武汉新型冠状病毒临床特点》中也提及：“ICU患者和非ICU患者的初始血浆IL1B，IL1RA，IL7，IL8，IL9，IL10，碱性FGF，GCSF，GMCSF，IFNγ，IP10，MCP1，MIP1A，MIP1B，PDGF，TNFα和VEGF浓度均高于在健康的成年人中。
"Preliminary plasma IL1B, IL1RA, IL7, IL8, IL9, IL10, alkaline FGF, GCSF, MIP1A, MIP1A, MIP1A, MIP1A, MIP1A, MIP1B, PDGF, TNF and VEGF in healthy adults are higher than in healthy adults.
健康成年人和感染2019-nCoV的患者的血浆IL5，IL12p70，IL15，嗜酸性粒细胞趋化因子和RANTES水平相似。
Plasma IL5, IL12p70, IL15, eosinophilic chemokines and RANTES levels were similar in healthy adults and patients infected with 2019-nCoV.
ICU患者与非ICU患者之间的进一步比较表明，ICU患者的IL2，IL7，IL10，GCSF，IP10，MCP1，MIP1A和TNFα的血浆浓度高于非ICU患者。
Further comparison between ICU and non-ICU patients showed that ICU patients had higher plasma concentrations than non-ICU patients in IL2, IL7, IL10, GCSF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A and TNF.
”即在ICU患者与非ICU患者中，均出现了细胞因子显著升高的情况，其中某些细胞因子在重症ICU患者体内浓度更高。
In both ICU and non-ICU patients, there was a significant increase in cytokines, some of which were higher in patients with severe ICU.
中国临床试验注册中心官网显示，由中国科学技术大学附属第一医院（安徽省立医院）发起的“托珠单抗在新型冠状病毒肺炎(COVID-19)中的有效性及安全性的多中心、随机对照临床研究”已预约登记。
A multi-centre, randomized controlled clinical study on the efficacy and safety of the new coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19) initiated by the First Hospital attached to the Chinese University of Science and Technology (Anhui Provincial Hospital) has been booked, according to the official website of the China Clinical Trial Registration Center.
旨在评估托珠单抗治疗普通型NCP（含重症高危因素）及重型NCP患者的有效性和安全性。
Objective To evaluate the efficacy and safety of tozhumab in the treatment of common NCP (including high risk factors) and severe NCP patients.
托珠单抗（雅美罗）是罗氏制药一款白介素6（IL-6)拮抗生物药，主要用于类风关等自身免疫性疾病，具有抑制免疫系统功能的作用。
Tojo monoclonal antibody (Yameiro) is an interleukin 6 (IL-6) antagonistic biopharmaceutical agent, which is mainly used in autoimmune diseases such as wind-like shutters, and has the function of inhibiting immune system function.
值得注意的是，2017年全球首款CAR-T疗法在美国获批时，托珠单抗也同时获批用于治疗CAR-T相关重度细胞因子释放综合征。
Notably, when the world's first CAR-T treatment was approved in the United States in 2017, it was also approved to treat CAR-T-related severe cytokine-releasing syndrome.
也就是说，托珠单抗实际上已证明自身对于细胞因子风暴的治疗能力。
That is to say, Tojo monoclonal antibodies have actually proven their ability to treat cytokine storms.
但这并不意味着托珠单抗就一定可以治疗新冠肺炎引发的细胞因子风暴。
But that doesn't mean that tozhumab alone can cure cytokine storms caused by new crown pneumonia.
药物研发从业人士柯楠对界面新闻记者表示，根据《柳叶刀》1月25日的这篇研究结果，新冠肺炎患者主要增高的细胞因子并不包括IL-6，这意味着不同病因的细胞因子增高综合征发病机制或许并不完全相同，未必可以照搬托珠单抗治疗。
According to the Lancet study on January 25, the main cytokines in patients with new crown pneumonia do not include IL-6, suggesting that the pathogenesis of cytokine-raising syndrome of different etiologies may not be exactly the same and may not be able to replicate the Tojo monoclonal therapy, Interface News reported.
不过，论文补充材料中提供了27种细胞因子的测定结果，有几例重症患者IL-6增高极其显著，此类患者使用托珠单抗有效的可能性较大。
However, the results of 27 cytokines were provided in the supplementary materials of the paper, and in several cases the increase of IL-6 was extremely significant.
而中国科学技术大学附属第一医院（安徽省立医院）发起的临床研究中也限定仅纳入IL-6升高患者，应当也是考虑到了背后的机制与风险。
The clinical study initiated by the First Hospital affiliated with the Chinese University of Science and Technology (Anhui Provincial Hospital) also limited the inclusion of patients with IL-6 elevations to the underlying mechanisms and risks.
但柯楠也表示，在细胞因子释放综合征的发生机制上，IL-6位置比较核心，抑制了IL-6其他的应该就会稳定。
But Kronan also said that the IL-6 locus is more central to the pathogenesis of cytokine-releasing syndrome, which should stabilize the rest of the IL-6.
此前针对肿瘤治疗诱发的细胞因子释放综合征的研究表明，IL-6、IL-10与干扰素γ（IFN-γ）这三种细胞因子在发生机制中起到了举足轻重的作用。
Previous studies of cytokine-releasing syndrome induced by tumor therapy have shown that three cytokines, IL-6, IL-10 and IFN-quotient (IFN), play an important role in the pathogenesis.
他还提醒，托珠单抗的药品说明“注意事项”部分第一条，就是免疫抑制后继发严重感染，这也被FDA标注以“黑框警告”，意味着监管机构不建议将托珠单抗与其他免疫抑制药物合用，要求一旦发生严重感染，立即停用托珠单抗。
He also warned that the first of the "caveats" section of the Tozhu monoclonal antibody drug, which was labeled by the FDA as a "black-box warning," meant that the regulator did not recommend the combination of tozhumab with other immunosuppressive drugs, and called for immediate cessation of the use of tozhumab in the event of a severe infection.
另据其了解，武汉地区许多医生并未处方过托珠单抗，缺乏临床使用经验也是一个现实问题。
According to their understanding, many doctors in Wuhan area have not prescribed Tozhu monoclonal antibody, lack of clinical experience is also a real problem.
柯楠分析，根据补充材料的数据，肿瘤坏死因子α（TNF α）也是再应对新冠肺炎危重症患者的细胞因子风暴所值得尝试的靶点。
Conan analysis, according to supplementary data, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is also a worthy target for responding to cytokine storms in critically ill patients with new crown pneumonia.
这一靶点上聚集了多款知名药物，包括阿达木单抗、依那西普、英夫利昔单抗等。
Several well-known drugs, including Adamumab, Innasip and Infliximab, have been assembled at this target.
尽管如此，即使是在疫情肆虐急需特效药之时，现代医学所遵循的询证与严谨依然在提醒着我们，无论是哪一款药物，都应经过严格的临床试验检验，明确其安全性和有效性。
Nonetheless, even as the epidemic rages and desperately needs specific drugs, the evidence and rigour of modern medicine reminds us that any drug should undergo rigorous clinical trials to determine its safety and efficacy.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
除了瑞德西韦，这三种药也可能成为新冠肺炎的“解药”。
In addition to Rhetsevir, these three drugs may also become the new crown pneumonia "antidote."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "除了瑞德西韦，这三种药也可能成为新冠肺炎的“解药”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "不要鸡蛋装在一个篮子里，包括法维拉韦、氯喹/羟氯喹、托珠单抗等药物也将进行临床试验，验证其对新冠肺炎的效果。
var msg _ desc = & quot; do not include eggs in a basket. Drugs such as Fawlavir, chloroquine / hydroxychloroquine, and tozhumaine will also be tested for their effect on Newcrown Pneumonia.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
