方舱医院里的日与夜。
Day and night in the cabin hospital.
陈鑫。
Chen Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
江汉方舱医院护士正在收集患者信息。
The nurses at Jiang Han Fang Cavern Hospital are collecting patient information.
图：受访者提供记者：陈鑫“ 有人已经出院，有人继续等待，他们正在与新型冠状病毒做最后的博弈。
Photo: Interviewee: Reporter Chen Xin: "Some people have been discharged from the hospital, some people continue to wait, they are playing a final game with the new coronavirus.
”2月12日晚，45岁的老邓做完第二次核酸复查回到病房。
On the night of February 12, 45-year-old Deng returned to the ward after a second nucleic acid review.
即使戴着口罩也能看出他难掩兴奋。
Even wearing a mask can tell he can't hide his excitement.
他是武汉江汉方舱医院44病房首位有机会进行两次核酸检测和全身复查的患者，也是整个病房的精神寄托。
He was the first patient in Ward 44 of Wuhan Jianghan Fangkang Hospital to have two nucleic acid tests and full body reexamination. He was the spiritual sustenance of the whole ward.
老邓的第一次检测结果是阴性，按照规定，如果两次核酸检测呈阴性，肺部阴影症状明显好转，他与病毒的博弈就算胜利了。
Deng's first test was negative, and if he tested negative for two nucleic acid tests and his lung shadow improved markedly, his game with the virus would have been won.
病友们都希望老邓能顺利出院，给病房开个好头。
The patients all hope that old Deng can be discharged smoothly, set a good head for the ward.
邻床的陆俊奕是一名轻症感染者，也是病区里的志愿者。
The next bed of Lu Junyi is a mild case of infection, but also in the area of volunteers.
他向老邓送上祝福，老邓则用右手比了两次加油的动作。
He gave his blessing to Lao Deng, who compared the two oiling moves with his right hand.
但次日的检测结果让一切回到了原点，老邓这次检测结果与确诊时的一样，仍为阳性。
But tests the next day brought things back to where they were when Deng was diagnosed.
病区里的患者们都有些小失落。
The patients in the sick area are a little lost.
2月14日，江汉方舱医院开始对患者进行大规模核酸检测。
On February 14, Jiang Han Square Hospital began mass nucleic acid testing of patients.
次日，该院发布消息称，在武汉协和医院本部的大力支持下，江汉方舱医院每日核酸检测约400人次（其中检测结果阳性50%），CT检测350人次，因病情进展不同，部分病友仍需进行第二次检测。
The following day, the hospital announced that, with the strong support of Wuhan Concord Hospital Headquarters, the JiangHan Square Hospital received about 400 nucleic acid tests (50% of which were positive) and 350 CT tests per day.
江汉方舱医院安慰病友说：“请各位耐心等待，积极配合医护人员安排。
"Please wait patiently and actively cooperate with the medical staff," said Jiang Han Fang Cao Hospital.
”虽然老邓并未立刻给大家带来好消息，但陆俊奕认为，只要耐心等待就可以了，“我们轻症病人大都已经度过了病情和心理上最难熬时候，现在体内的抗体正在剿灭病毒残党。
Although Deng didn't bring immediate good news, Lu said he could just wait and see: "Most of our mild patients have passed the worst of their illness and mental illness, and antibodies are now destroying the virus's remnants.
”江汉方舱医院内部环境。
The inner environment of the Jiang-Han Fangkang Hospital.
图：受访者提供一29岁的陆俊奕住进江汉方舱医院已近两周。
Photo: The interviewee provided a 29-year-old Lu Junyi living in the Jiang Han Square Hospital for nearly two weeks.
这座“临时野战医院”由武汉国际会展中心改建而成，占地7.69万平方米。
The temporary field hospital has been converted from Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center and occupies an area of 76,900 square meters.
如果没有这次疫情，这里几天后（21日至23日）将要举办一场盛大的“华夏家博会”。
If not for the outbreak, here in a few days (21-23) will hold a grand "China Home Fair."
改造方舱医院的命令来得很突然。
The order to renovate the cabin hospital came suddenly.
2月3日，武汉开始改造启用临时性的方舱医院，首批收治患者的有3座，分别是武汉客厅、武汉会展中心以及洪山体育馆，首批开放3600张床位。
On February 3, Wuhan began transforming and opening a temporary cabin hospital. The first batch of patients admitted was the Wuhan living room, the Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Centre and the Hongshan Stadium.
方舱医院始于20世纪60年代越战时期，美军为了适应越南战争的需要，率先将自给式可运输的野战医院投入战场使用，这种医院采用方舱、可扩展帐篷、充气帐篷相结合的组合方式，可组成不同规模。
In response to the Vietnam War in the 1960 "s, the US military pioneered the use of self-contained, transportable field hospitals with a combination of square cabins, extendable tents and inflatable tents, which could be built in different sizes to meet the needs of the Vietnam War.
后来这种模式被全球军方借鉴。
This model was later adopted by the global military.
这种灵活机动的临时医院系统也是弥补重大灾难期间普通医院资源不足的重要途径。
This flexible system of temporary hospitals is also an important way to compensate for the lack of resources in general hospitals during major disasters.
2月5日，武汉市人大常委会主任胡立山在新闻发布会上透露，截至2月4日，武汉全市空病床仅剩421张，很多新增的确诊病患没有住进指定医院救治，形成了“堰塞湖”。
As of February 4, there were only 421 beds available in Wuhan, and many newly diagnosed patients had not been admitted to designated hospitals, forming "quake lakes," Hu Lishan, the chairman of the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the NPC, told a news conference.
同日，武汉决定加快对“四类人员”分类集中收治，对于确诊的轻症新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者无法全部进入定点医院治疗的，要求征用其他医院或酒店作为临时治疗区，集中收治患者。
On the same day, Wuhan decided to speed up the collection and treatment of "four categories of personnel." If pneumonia patients with a newly diagnosed coronavirus infection are not all admitted to designated hospitals, other hospitals or hotels should be requisitioned as temporary treatment areas for centralized treatment.
2月5日，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部提出，争取在2月5日晚24时，收治所有确诊病人，将轻症病人安排进入“方舱医院”。
February 5, Wuhan, the new-style coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command, the goal is to treat all confirmed patients, the patients will be admitted to the "square cabin hospital.
武汉国际会展中心的改建仅用了2天左右。
The reconstruction of Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center took only about two days.
从病床和通道的中间距，到空气流向，各项设计都需要遵循传染病相应的要求和规范，医院的管理制度也要按照传染病管理要求，以及传染性疾病的病人特点来开展。
From the middle distance between beds and passages to the air flow, all designs need to follow the corresponding requirements and norms for infectious diseases, and hospital management systems should be developed in accordance with the requirements for the management of infectious diseases, as well as the characteristics of patients with infectious diseases.
改建后的中心分为上下两层，总共1600张床位，其中一楼分为西区、中庭和东区，每个区内分成8个小区，每区整齐排列着50-60张行军床。
The renovated Centre is divided into two floors, comprising 1 600 beds, the first floor of which is divided into the Western, Central and Eastern Divisions, each divided into eight sub-districts, each neatly arranged with 50-60 marching beds.
分区之间由高隔板隔断，床位之间由1.2米高木板隔断。
The partitions are separated by high partitions and the beds are separated by planks 1.2 m high.
二楼有专设的医疗药品进出通道，每层楼另有2个护士站和全封闭的抢救室。
On the second floor, there are special access roads for medical drugs, two nurse stations per floor and fully enclosed emergency rooms.
2月5日下午，这座临时医院就已经正式交接给华中科技大学附属协和医院管理。
In the afternoon of Feb. 5, the temporary hospital was handed over to Concorde Hospital, an affiliate of HUST.
其医疗队由国家医疗队和武汉医疗队组成，其中国家医疗队共9家，武汉医疗队共6家。
Its medical team is composed of the national medical team and Wuhan medical team, including 9 national medical teams and 6 Wuhan medical teams.
2月5日22时，江汉方舱医院正式启用，开始接收新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎轻症患者。
February 5 at 22: 00, Jiang Han Square Hospital officially opened, began to receive the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia patients.
2月5日晚，由洪山体育馆改造而成的武昌方舱医院也以超乎想象的速度被启用，洪山体育馆是湖北省第一座大型、多功能的体育馆。
On the night of February 5, Wuchang Fang Hospital, the first large multi-purpose gymnasium in Hubei province, was opened with unimaginable speed.
改造后的医院有800张病床。
The converted hospital has 800 beds.
万军是武汉大学人民医院副院长，也是武昌方舱医院负责人。
Almighty is the Vice-Dean of Wuhan University People's Hospital and the head of Wuchang Fangkang Hospital.
“我们没有过方舱医院的管理经验，也不了解它的运行模式和组成特点。
"We don't have experience with cabin hospitals, we don't know the mode of operation and the characteristics of its composition.
”万军说，但他必须要在36小时内，指导建立一所全新的传染病医院，包括组建管理架构、拟定工作制度和流程，进行人员培训，以做好收治病人的准备。
But within 36 hours he must direct the establishment of a new hospital for infectious diseases, including the formation of a management structure, the development of working systems and procedures, and the training of personnel to prepare for the arrival of patients.
湖北省肿瘤医院医疗队副队长王俊见证了洪山体育馆是如何一步步变成武昌方舱医院的完整过程。
Wang Jun, vice-captain of Hubei Oncology Hospital Medical Team, witnessed how the Hongshan Stadium became the complete process of Wuchang Fang Hospital step by step.
他说，方舱医院是临时传染病医院，改建过程中，哪里需要隔断和封死，都需要医护人员提出想法。
He said that the hospital is a temporary infectious disease hospital, the reconstruction process, where the need to block and block, the need for medical staff to put forward ideas.
改建完成后，地方医疗队首先需要自己熟悉场馆，之后再带着国家队和护理团队快速熟悉场地。
After the renovation, local medical teams first need to familiarize themselves with the venue, and then bring the national team and nursing team to quickly familiarize themselves with the venue.
武昌方舱医院也被划分为三个病区，也是按照“国家医疗队＋武汉医疗队”结合的模式运转，由本地五家医院和国家医疗队各派出20名医生，护理团队是来自青海、江西等4个省的400名护士，所有医护技工作人员加起来有600多名。
Wu Chang Fang Hospital is also divided into three disease zones, which are operated under the combined mode of "National Medical Team + Wuhan Medical Team," with 20 doctors from each of the five local hospitals and the national medical team.
作为“东道主”的武汉大学人民医院，则负责武昌方舱医院的整体统筹和调配管理。
As the "host" of Wuhan University People's Hospital, is responsible for the overall planning and deployment of Wuchang Fang Hospital.
2月5日晚上7点，昌金星赶到武昌方舱医院，开始了第一班岗。
February 5 at 7 p.m., Chong Chong rushed to Wuchang cabin hospital, began the first shift guard.
他是武汉大学人民医院心外科医生，也是该院入住方舱医院医疗队领队，到第二天早上8点昌金星下班时，武昌方舱医院已经收治患者125人。
He was a cardiologist at Wuhan University's People's Hospital and head of the hospital's medical team. By 8 a. m., Chong Chong was off duty and Wuchang Square Hospital had admitted 125 patients.
截至目前，武昌方舱医院的800张床位几乎已经住满。
So far, Wuchang Fang Hospital has almost filled its 800 beds.
“方舱第一晚，一言难尽……我们都很努力，很拼。
"The first night of the cabin... we all worked very hard and hard.
”下班后，昌金星在朋友圈写道。
After work, Chong wrote in a circle of friends.
江汉方舱医院大门。
Jianghan Fang Deck Hospital.
图：受访者提供二根据武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组制定的《方舱医院管理规则》，方舱医院收治的主要是已经确诊感染了新冠病毒的肺炎轻症或普通型、年龄在18岁到65岁之间、合并基础性疾病较少的患者。
Photo: Respondents provided two sets of rules for the management of the Fang Cao Hospital according to the Regulations of the Medical Treatment Team of Wuhan New Pneumonia Control Command. The majority of the patients admitted to Fang Cao Hospital were patients with mild pneumonia or normal type, aged between 18 and 65 years, with fewer basic diseases.
陆俊奕是江汉方舱医院收治的首批患者之一。
Lu Junyi was one of the first patients admitted to the Jianghan Fangkang Hospital.
他从1月21日感到发热、嗓子痒，短暂服药输液后有所好转，26日晚，他再度高烧不退，但需要核酸试剂检测才能最终确诊。
He developed fever and itchy throat on January 21 and improved after a brief infusion. He had a high fever again on the evening of 26 January, but needed a nucleic acid reagent test to make a final diagnosis.
此时，武汉市内交通已经全部停运，2月2日清晨，陆俊奕步行1小时到达武汉市第一医院，前一晚，在医院工作的同学告诉他还有检测试剂。
By this time, traffic in Wuhan had been suspended. Lu Junyi had walked for an hour to Wuhan First Hospital in the early morning of February 2.
次日拿到核酸检测呈“阳性”的结果时，陆俊奕心中的一块石头终于落地了，确诊后，他不再忐忑不安。
The next day when the nucleic acid test "positive" results, Lu Junyi in the heart of a stone finally landed, after diagnosis, he no longer worried about.
2月6日凌晨，他接到社区工作人员电话，“可以进方舱了”。
In the early hours of February 6, he received a phone call from a community worker, "ready to go into the cabin."
他用1个小时匆匆收拾好行李，全部行李用一个双肩包和登机箱就装下了，除换洗衣服和生活用品外，还有药和牛奶。
He packed his bags in a hurry for an hour. All his luggage was packed in a double-shouldered bag and a boarding-case, with medicines and milk in addition to changing clothes and household goods.
带上药品和牛奶是明智的，他到医院的第一天，由于时间仓促，医院里暂时没有药、吃饭的时间也不确定，常常延迟。
It was wise to take medicine and milk with him. On his first day in the hospital, he was temporarily deprived of medication, and the time to eat was uncertain and often delayed.
类似初期的问题并非江汉方舱医院一家的特例。
Similar initial problem is not a special case of Jianghan Fangkang Hospital.
34岁的彭勇是在大年三十出现腹泻症状的。
Peng Yong, 34, developed diarrhea in his late thirties.
2月1日至3日最严重时，他感到呼吸困难，2月6日，他被收治武昌方舱医院前，每日都要去武汉同济医院输液。
At the height of the period from 1 to 3 February, he experienced breathing difficulties and, on 6 February, he had to go daily to Wuhan Tongji Hospital before being admitted to Wuchang Fang Hospital.
入舱第一天，彭勇遭遇了无药、无人给他输液的窘境，他很激动，他所在的病房，情绪激动的患者不止他一个人。
On the first day, Peng Yong encountered no medicine, no one to give him a fluid predicament, he was excited, his room, emotional patients more than he alone.
2月7日，接管江汉方舱医院的华中科技大学附属协和医院党委副书记孙晖向媒体表示，由于集中收治患者人数众多，工作量巨大，将考虑建立有效的沟通机制。
On February 7, Sun Hui, deputy secretary of the Communist Party Committee of the Concorde Hospital, a subsidiary of the Huazhong University of Science and Technology, which took over the hospital, told the media on Feb.
对于患者反映的问题，“不能说是完全解决，但是情况在改善，已基本步入正轨。
As for the problems reported by patients, "they cannot be said to be completely solved, but the situation is improving and is basically on track."
”据孙晖介绍，第一天晚上，江汉方舱医院大约收治了600多病人，此后医护团队每天晚上都是工作到凌晨2、3点，随时都会有病人来。
On the first night, more than 600 patients were admitted to the Jianghan Fangcao Hospital, and medical teams worked until 2 or 3 a.m. every night, according to Sun.
最初，各地赶来支援的医护人员也面临一个适应的过程。
Initially, medical staff from all over the world came to support the process of adaptation.
2月4日凌晨，还在贵州省铜仁市碧江区中医医院发热门诊值班的护士长刘利飞接到支援武汉的通知，当日早上9点，她从贵州省铜仁市前往省会贵阳集合，深夜抵达武汉。
In the early morning of February 4, Liu Lifei, the head nurse on duty at the Bijiang District Chinese Medicine Hospital in Tongren, Guizhou Province, received a notice of support for Wuhan.
经过简单休息培训后，她于2月6日晚上第一次进入江汉方舱医院。
After a brief rest training, she first entered the Jiang Han Square Hospital on the evening of February 6.
在这里，她将作为护理团队的小组长，与来自8个省的国家医疗队、武汉本地医疗队，以及武汉协和医院的行管人员共同抵抗新型冠状病毒。
Here, she will be the team leader of the nursing team, from the eight provinces of the national medical team, Wuhan local medical team, Wuhan and Wuhan Concoronavirus management staff together.
当天晚上10点，1000多个床位已经接近饱和，但门外不断有患者被送过来。
At 10 p. m., more than 1,000 beds were nearly full, but patients were being brought in.
面对这种复杂局面，她无所适从。
She was at a loss in the face of such a complicated situation.
身边都是刚刚到岗的外省护士，同样不了解情况，显得不知所措。
Around is just arrived the provincial nurse, similarly does not know the situation, appears at a loss.
最后她辗转找到的一位负责人，这位负责人同样很无奈，他正被医生、护士、病人包围在人群中间，手里拿着两部手机不断焦急地联系着上级和医院。
Finally, she found a person in charge, who was also helpless, surrounded by doctors, nurses and patients, with two mobile phones in his hand, constantly contacting his superiors and the hospital in anxiety.
贵州援鄂护士刘利飞刚刚给病人发完药，向病人竖起大拇指，以示鼓励。
Liu Lifei, a nurse in Hubei province, just gave the patient his medicine, giving him a thumbs-up as a sign of encouragement.
图：受访者提供餐饮分配最初也遇到了问题，餐饮涉及酒店准备、物流配送、分发等多个环节，统计上稍有差池，就会有患者吃不上饭。
Figure: Respondents also encountered problems in providing food distribution at the beginning, catering for hotel preparation, logistics distribution, distribution, and so on, a slightly different statistical pool, there will be no food for patients.
加上武汉冬季温度低，饭菜放在外面稍微时间久一点就凉了，发到病人手上已经冷掉了。
In addition to Wuhan winter temperature low, the food on the outside for a little longer on the cold, to the hands of the patient has been cold.
差错在所难免，陆俊奕记得，有次午饭发到一半发现少了200份，后排病区的病人为此多等了一小时。
Errors are inevitable, and Mr Lu remembers one lunch in which 200 were found missing and patients in the back row waiting an hour for it.
护士第二次送饭时发现仍然不够，最终他们拿到午饭已经是下午3点。
When the nurse delivered the second meal, it was still not enough, and finally they got their lunch at 3 pm.
最初，护士们也常常有苦难言，饭菜推到病房里时，患者们蜂拥而上、一抢而空的现象令她们很无奈。
At first, nurses often had a hard time talking. When the food was pushed into the room, they felt helpless as the patients swarmed up and snatched it away.
刘利飞还经常遇到有病人要求两份的情况，她要不断向患者解释，饭量都是按床位数一对一统计的，能不能再发一份要等发完看有没有多出来的。
Liu Li-fei also often encountered patients asked for two, she has to constantly explain to patients, the amount of meals are based on the number of one-to-one, can you send another to see if there are more out.
有时她最终拗不过患者，就只能再去找分饭的要一份。
Sometimes she finally frustrated with the patient, had to go to find a share of the rice.
好在高速转运磨合几天后，方舱医院的运转正步入正轨。
Fortunately, high-speed transit after a few days, the operation of the cabin hospital is on track.
餐饮和药物供应问题得到了解决。
Food and drug supply problems were addressed.
患者们同时抱怨的厕所和洗澡问题也逐步得到了改善。
Problems with toilets and baths, which patients also complain about, have gradually improved.
1000多人生活的江汉方舱医院，原先只有东西两边的室内厕所，患者们在隔间外排起长队。
The Jianghan Square Hospital, home to more than 1,000 people, used to have indoor toilets on both sides, with patients lining up outside the cubicles.
新冠肺炎的症状之一是腹泻，有些患者等不及排队，就直接拿盆子在空地上解决。
One of the symptoms of new crown pneumonia is diarrhea, some patients can not wait in line, take basin directly on the open space to solve.
2月10日，江汉方舱医院紧急投入一批移动厕所，解决了大家上厕所的难题。
Feb. 10, Jiang Han Square Hospital emergency into a number of mobile toilets, to solve the problem of everyone to use the toilet.
2月15日，江汉方舱医院通知大家，从浙江杭州采购的4台电热锅炉已运抵武汉。
Feb. 15, Jiang Han Square Hospital informed you that four electric heating boilers purchased from Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, had arrived in Wuhan.
2月17日，4间临时浴室已经基本成型，男、女各2间，各设淋浴喷头12个。
On 17 February, four makeshift bathrooms, two for women and two for men, each with 12 showers, were in place.
2月18日，陆俊奕领到了3张洗澡票，粉、绿、红三种颜色分别对应8-12点、14-18点、20-24点三个时间段。
Lu received three bath tickets on Feb. 18, with powder, green and red matching 8-12, 14-18 and 20-24, respectively.
根据江汉方舱医院现场指挥部贴出的公告，每人每周3张“洗澡票”，单人洗浴时间尽量控制在20分钟内。
According to the announcement posted by the Jianghan Fangkang Hospital Field Command, each person is entitled to three "bathing tickets" a week, with individual bathing time limited to 20 minutes.
自2月3日第一批3家方舱医院开始改建，截至2月12日，武汉市已建成方舱医院11家，计划床位9029张。
Since February 3, the first batch of three square-cabin hospitals has been rebuilt. As of February 12, 11 Fang Cao hospitals had been built in Wuhan, with a planned 9029 beds.
尽管方舱医院的‌‌医疗环境‌‌与正规医院还存在一定差距。
However, there is still a gap between the medical environment and the normal hospital.
但王俊认为，‌‌“目前来说，方舱医院‌‌应该是最适合的模式，患者的生活条件可能会差一些，但是生命健康可以得到保证。
But Mr. Wang believes that "at present, the most appropriate model is to take a patient to the hospital, the patient's living conditions may be worse, but the health of life can be guaranteed.
”江汉方舱医院护士正在给病友分饭，防护服背面写着“加油”。
The nurse at Jiang Han Fang Hospital was sharing food with her sick friend.
图：受访者提供三武昌方舱医院收治的都是轻症患者，相比定点医院，治疗的压力并不大。
Photo: The patients admitted to Sanwu Fang Cavern Hospital were all mild cases, and the pressure of treatment was less than that of the designated hospital.
对于医护人员来说，最关键的工作是如何保证病房的秩序，以及如何安抚患者情绪，让他们能自我管理。
For health care workers, the most important task is how to ensure order in the wards and how to calm patients' emotions so that they can manage themselves.
依靠患者自我管理，也是各家方舱医院逐渐总结出来的经验。
Dependent on patient self-management, also is each cabin hospital gradually summed up the experience.
2月11日，病区贴出志愿者招募令，陆俊奕积极报名，加入江汉区武展方舱医院支部群，并得到了一枚“江汉管家”的红袖章。
February 11, the disease area posted a volunteer recruitment order, Lu Junyi actively signed up to join the Jianghan District Wu Showcase Hospital Branch Group, and received a "Jiang Han Butler" red armband.
目前，群里有115人，这些志愿者的工作主要是配合护士发放物资和饭菜、协助民警维护病房秩序、汇总患者意见等。
At present, there are 115 people in the group. These volunteers mainly work with nurses to distribute materials and meals, assist the police in maintaining order in the wards, and collect patients' opinions.
有时候有人吵架，他们就像居委会的工作人员一样去调解，安抚病友的情绪。
Sometimes people quarrel, they like the staff of the neighborhood to mediate, to appease the mood of their sick friends.
很多时候，年轻的护士们受到委屈时，他也会承担起安慰者的角色。
Many times, when a young nurse is wronged, he takes on the role of comforter.
陆俊奕学过护理学，实习期间曾做过一年半的护士，这让他比其他患者更能理解护士们的艰辛和不易。
Lu Junyi, who studied nursing and worked as a nurse for a year and a half during his internship, made him understand the nurses' hardships and difficulties better than other patients.
“患者自治”的初衷，就是由患者自行管理，遵守病区的制度，保证病区的良好秩序。
The original intention of "patient autonomy" is to be managed by patients themselves, to abide by the system of disease areas, to ensure good order.
患者参与管理的模式也立竿见影，临时医院开始从最初的无序，逐渐变得更为有序化。
The model of patient participation in management was also immediately apparent, and the makeshift hospital began to move from initial disorder to more orderly management.
经过前三天的运转，在武昌方舱医院的王俊也逐渐摸索出一套“患者自治”的模式。
After the first three days of operation, in Wuchang cabin hospital Wang Jun also gradually groped out a "patient autonomy" model.
“患者自治”的初衷，就是由患者自行管理、“区长”（病区选出的患者担任）引导大家遵守制度、协助医护人员管理。
The purpose of "patient autonomy" is to be managed by patients themselves, "district" (selected patients in the disease area) to guide people to abide by the system, to assist in the management of health-care personnel.
王俊负责的东区有120张病床位，再被分为5个病区，每个病区选出一位“区长”，由“区长”负责统计、发放‌‌生活物资及药品，这大大减轻了医务人员的工作负担，可以分出更多精力在治疗工作上。
The 120-bed Eastern District under the responsibility of Mr Wong is divided into five wards, each of which selects a "district mayor" who will be responsible for the statistics and distribution of supplies and medicines for the elderly. This greatly reduces the workload of the medical staff and frees up more energy for treatment.
另一方面，患者有时会对医务人员的管理产生逆反心理，“区长”这时候也肩负起对他们进行安抚和心理疏导的职能，这种患者之间的疏导往往更有成效。
On the other hand, patients sometimes react negatively to the management of medical staff, when the "district mayor" also assumes the role of pacifying and mediating them, and such patient-to-patient counselling is often more effective.
2月17日，党员患者牵头组织的江汉方舱医院志愿者团队，进行消防培训前的合影。
Feb. 17, Party members led the organization of the Jiang Han cabin hospital volunteer team, fire training before the group photo.
图：受访者提供四相比于定点医院的重症患者，方舱里的轻症患者们更能看到痊愈的希望，但有时，也会有例外。
Photo: Respondents offered four more hope of recovery than patients with severe illness at designated hospitals, but sometimes there were exceptions.
2月11日晚，陆俊奕原本要去找一位从定点医院转到江汉方舱的患者，但第二天早饭过后，这位从甘肃前来武汉进修的医生因胸闷多日，又重新送回至定点医院，只留下一张空荡荡的床位。
On the night of Feb. 11, Lu Junyi had to find a patient who had been transferred from the designated hospital to the Jiang Han area, but after breakfast the next day, the doctor, who had come from Gansu Province to Wuhan for several days, returned to the designated hospital, leaving only an empty bed.
2月12日下午，3名医护人员和1名警察推着急救车迅速从21病房急速而过。
On the afternoon of 12 February, three paramedics and a police officer rushed by in a ambulance from Unit 21.
这一幕勾起了陆俊奕最痛苦时的回忆，“头痛、心脏痛，吃药无效，因得不到确诊无法住院，我曾担心病情一直发展下去，自己撑不下去。
The scene evoked memories of Lu Junyi's most painful moments: "Headaches, heart pains, ineffective medication, and the inability to stay in hospital without a diagnosis.
”2月14日，江汉方舱医院迎来第一次大规模核酸检测，病人从13病房排到9病房，队伍横穿大厅，又占了另一侧的两个病房。
On February 14, the first large-scale nucleic acid test was conducted at Jiang Han Square Hospital, where patients were transferred from ward 13 to ward 9, passing across the hall and occupying two wards on the other side.
陆俊奕也排在队伍中间。
Lu Jun Yi also ranks in the middle of the queue.
很快，不远处的病房里传来欢呼和掌声，有患者获准出院了，获准出院的患者们等不及吃午饭，就告别病友们回家了。
Soon after, cheers and applause came from a nearby hospital room. Patients were allowed out of the hospital. Unable to wait for lunch, the patients left for home.
看着其他病房的病友出院，44病房的患者们也都在关系自己何时能符合条件离开方舱，他们开始互相询问对方的检测结果，并期待下一批出院名单能有自己。
Watching patients in other wards get out of the hospital, patients in ward 44 are also talking about when they will be eligible to leave the cabin. They start asking each other about each other's test results and looking forward to the next batch of discharges.
前一天，陆俊奕安慰有些失落的老邓说，在方舱安心等待病毒消失，才是真正对自己、对家人负责，他开玩笑说，“外面菜品少、菜价高，物质条件不一定比得上方舱里”。
The day before, Lu consoled his somewhat frustrated senior Deng by saying he was truly responsible for himself and his family by waiting in the cabin for the virus to disappear, joking: "There's not much food out there, food prices are high and material conditions are not necessarily comparable to those in the cabins."
2月15日，陆俊奕的检测为“阳性”，和老邓一样，他也还需要在方舱里继续等待下去。
On Feb. 15, Lu Junyi tested positive, and like Deng, he still had to wait in his cabin.
虽然有些失望，但他还是开玩笑地说：“阳性可以在这里继续‘混吃混喝’了”。
Despite his disappointment, he joked: "The masculine gender can continue to be 'mixed up' here."
随后，他在微信朋友圈里写道，出院14天后，他将以有临床经验的志愿者身份重回一线。
He then wrote in Weixin Friends Circle that 14 days after his discharge from hospital, he would return to the frontline as a volunteer with clinical experience.
已经是武汉封城第27天了，陆俊奕忽然开始想念大海。
Wuhan has been the 27 days of the city, Lu Junyi suddenly began to miss the sea.
他翻看着手机相册里在欧洲、日本和东南亚等地旅游时的照片，心里计划着等疫情结束后，他先去养老院看望奶奶，再带着曾中风的父亲出门散散心。
He scanned the photos of his cell-phone albums as he traveled through Europe, Japan and Southeast Asia, thinking he would visit his grandmother in the nursing home and take his stroke father out to relax.
江汉方舱医院里每天都有喜讯传来。
There were good tidings coming from the Jiang Han cabin hospital every day.
2月17日，江汉方舱医院迎来一波“出舱潮”，有23名患者这天痊愈出舱。
February 17, Jiang Han cabin hospital ushered in a wave of "out of the cabin", 23 patients that day recovered from the cabin.
陆俊奕和老邓都为他们感到高兴。
Lu Junyi and Lao Deng are both happy for them.
院方的数据显示，自开舱来，截止2月17日，江汉方舱医院已经有82名患者达到出舱标准，其中61名患者出舱。
As of February 17, 82 patients had reached the exit standard at the Jianghan Fang Causeway Hospital, with 61 of them out of the cabin, according to hospital data.
收治在武昌方舱医院的彭勇是是2月11日检测达标出院的。
The treatment in Wuchang Fang cabin hospital Peng Yong is February 11 test up to discharge.
2月9日，他和85名患者做了核酸检测，其中75名呈阴性，最终出院28人。
On 9 February, he and 85 patients were tested for nucleic acids, 75 of whom were negative and were eventually discharged from hospital.
彭勇回到与家相隔的另一栋住所里，他需要再居家隔离14天后，才能重返正常生活。
Peng Yong returned to another home away from home, where he had to remain in quarantine for another 14 days before returning to normal life.
如今，他每用力深呼吸时，似乎依旧感到胸口像是有堵墙。
Now, every time he breathes deeply, he still feels like a wall in his chest.
出院并不是一个想当然的过程，王俊介绍，如果患者病程超过14天，且在方舱医院连续3天以上没有发热，医生才会根据情况安排患者做胸片检查和核酸检测。
If the patient has been ill for more than 14 days and has not had fever for more than 3 consecutive days, the doctor will arrange a chest examination and nucleic acid test according to the situation, Wang said.
“患者需要同时满足连续两次核酸检测呈阴性、胸片或者CT显示肺部症状好转或是完全消失，并经过国家专家组的逐一审核才能够出院。
"Patients need to satisfy two consecutive negative nucleic acid tests, chest X-rays or CT signs that the lung is improving or is completely gone," he said.
”王俊说。
"said Wang.
彭勇每天都关注这武昌方舱医院的消息。
Peng Yong followed the news of the Wuchang cabin hospital every day.
他注意到，2月13日下午，又有26名患者顺利出舱了。
He noted that, on the afternoon of 13 February, another 26 patients had successfully exited the cabin.
（实习记者唐青青对本文亦有贡献。
(Intern reporter Tang Qingqing also contributed to this article.
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院里的日与夜。
Day and night in the cabin hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "方舱医院里的日与夜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; day and night at & quot; at cabin hospital.
var msg_desc = "有人已经出院，有人继续等待，他们正在与新型冠状病毒做最后的博弈。
var msg _ desc = & quot; someone has been discharged and continues to wait as they make a final game against the new coronavirus.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
