地球青年丨武汉的除夕夜，我一个人在家自行观察。
On New Year's Eve, I watch from home alone.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 地球青年图鉴。
A guide to the youth of the planet.
Author 地青。
Authorization Green.
地球青年图鉴。
Youth of the Earth.
年轻的另一种可能。
Another possibility of being young.
“此刻的中国版图中，武汉好像是一座孤城，但实际上在这座孤城之内还有无数个孤城，有成千上万个原驻家庭把自己锁在家里，他们表面上安静祥和，心头却有一根线紧绷着。
"Wuhan seems like a lonely city at the moment in China, but in fact there are thousands of isolated cities in this isolated city, where thousands of former families lock themselves in their homes.
”受访者张恒写道。
Respondent Zhang Heng wrote.
我们采访了五位在武汉过年的青年人，聊了聊他们近期的经历，他们中有从北京、上海等地赶回到武汉过年的人，也有未曾离开的武汉本地人。
We interviewed five young people who had spent the New Year in Wuhan and talked about their recent experiences, including those who had rushed back to Wuhan to celebrate the New Year from Beijing and Shanghai, and those who had never left Wuhan.
表面上安静祥和，心头却有一根线紧绷着△ 爸爸在家种的菜张恒（化名） 24岁 咖啡店店主 家住江夏区我在上海和朋友一起经营咖啡店，12月30号在网上看到了那张流传的华南海鲜市场的通报，我当下的反应是马上找信息去看看，发现好像确实有这回事，赶紧发给在武汉的爸妈看，他们当时还不知道。
After seeing the spread of the South China Seafood Market in Shanghai, my immediate reaction was to look for information and find it as if it really happened, and send it to my parents in Wuhan, who didn't know it.
后来关于肺炎的消息越来越多，到1月20号的样子，身边的人都在劝我不要回家过年了，我当时还觉得也没什么，大家都很害怕，反而只有我这个武汉人不怕。
Later, more and more news about pneumonia, by January 20, people around me advised me not to go home for the New Year, I still feel nothing, everyone is very scared, but only I am not afraid of Wuhan.
△ 妈妈做的菜我心想，每年都只有过年才有时间回去看看爸爸妈妈，现在不回去，不知道等到什么时候了。
Mother Cooked Cuisine Every year only after the Chinese New Year, I have time to go back to see Mom and Dad.
家里还有很多腊鱼腊肉等着我，行李箱里已经包好了给爸妈的红包。
There are a lot of bacon in the house waiting for me, luggage has been wrapped up for my parents red envelopes.
所有人都劝我不要回去了，我真的不愿意不回去，我告诉他们没事的，就这样在1月22号下午抵达了武汉。
All the people advised me not to go back, I really do not want to go back, I told them it is okay, so January 22 in the afternoon arrived in Wuhan.
出了地铁，我看到爸妈在地铁口等着我，他们竟然没有带口罩，我当即就批评了他们，说心也太大了，爸妈玩笑着说没事的，一会儿就回家了。
When I got out of the subway, I saw my parents waiting for me at the subway entrance. They didn't even wear a mask.
一路上我给爸妈说了很多关于这次肺炎的信息，现在的感染数据，口罩要怎么选、怎么戴，如何预防等等。
Along the way I told my parents a lot about the pneumonia, the infection data, how to choose, how to wear, how to prevent, and so on.
按照往年的习惯，我回来之后，一家的行程都是满满当当的，所以我有一点担心。
In accordance with the usual practice, after my return, the family itinerary is full, so I have a little worried.
果不其然，妈妈跟我说，明天就去外婆家。
Sure enough, my mother told me to go to Grandmother tomorrow.
第二天一早，我打开手机就看到了武汉全城“封城”的消息，机场火车站关闭通道，公共交通都停止运营。
The next morning, I turned on my cell phone and saw the news of the "closure" of Wuhan city, the closure of the airport railway station and the suspension of public transport.
出门前我把自己从上海带回来的口罩给爸妈，叫他们一定要戴上。
Before I went out, I brought my mask back from Shanghai to my parents and told them to wear it.
△ 爸爸从年前就开始雕刻的手串离姥姥家不远，我们决定打滴滴去。
Father?? s hand string, which he had carved since years ago, was not far from his house.
大街上没有行人，只有零星的车跑着。
There were no pedestrians in the street, just a few cars running.
这天打车不算太容易，早上十点，我们打上的时候已经是排在第六位，大概等待了半个小时才上车。
It wasn't easy to take a taxi that day. At ten in the morning, we were in sixth place, waiting about half an hour to get on the bus.
爸妈坐在后面，我坐在副驾驶位置，还没坐稳，司机直接说，“要加价的”。
Mom and Dad sat in the back, I sat in the co-driver's seat, not yet steady, the driver said directly, "to increase the price."
我一时没有反应过来，没想到在平台打车，司机还敢如此大胆。
I did not respond to the moment, did not expect to take a taxi in the platform, the driver also dare so bold.
我很惊讶地说：“你还加价？你不怕我投诉你吗？”司机更刚，“我都出来开滴滴了，我还怕你投诉？”爸妈坐在后面，我也不好继续再跟司机争执，想着本来打车也不容易，万一他不送我们就不好了。
I was surprised to say, "You're still asking for more? Aren't you afraid I'm complaining?" The driver was more recent. "I came out dripping, and I was afraid you would complain?"
我不耐烦地说“好，走走走。
I said impatiently, "OK, take a walk.
”包括司机在内，我们四个人全都戴着口罩，车开了一会儿，我注意到爸爸悄悄把车窗打开一条缝，很冷的风吹进来。
All four of us, including the driver, were wearing masks and drove for a while when I noticed Dad slipping a crack in the window and a cold wind blowing in.
△ 年三十，妈妈在厨房准备做鱼。
After?? 30, mother is preparing to cook fish in the kitchen.
年二十九的中午，在姥姥家，我们和大舅、二舅两家，勉强算是吃了一顿年夜饭。
At my grandma's home in nineteen twenty-nine, we had a Chinese New Year dinner with my uncle and uncle.
本来就因为亲戚之间有些许摩擦，大家只是“身体”出现在这张餐桌上。
Originally because there is a little friction between relatives, we just "body" appeared on this table.
没人打开话茬子，更没人聊起工作、学业和爱情，只有外公讲起他今天在电视上看到说有肺炎。
Nobody talks about work, school, or love. Only Grandpa told me that he saw pneumonia on TV today.
我竟然吃过了一餐有些窃喜的年夜饭。
I had a big dinner that was a bit of a lark.
那天下午我们赶在五点之前就回家了。
We went home before five that afternoon.
△ 年夜饭除夕这天开始，爸妈对于肺炎的认知发生了一些变化，或许是封城让他们意识到了疫情有多严重。
Starting on New Year's Eve, parents' perception of pneumonia has changed somewhat, perhaps because the ban has made them realize how serious the outbreak is.
除夕夜，爸妈忙活了一下午，我们三个人五点多就吃上了。
On New Year's Eve, my parents worked hard all afternoon, and the three of us ate at more than five o'clock.
春晚开始了，我们一家人坐在沙发上，边吐槽边大笑，在大家都不感兴趣的节目间隙，爸妈都在做两件事情。
When the Spring Festival Gala started, our family sat on the sofa, laughing and spitting. My parents were doing two things between the shows that no one was interested in.
一件事是在各种社交平台抢红包、集卡片等，另一件事，就是爸妈一直在刷各种肺炎的文章及视频。
One thing is to grab red packets and set cards on various social platforms. The other thing is that my parents have been brushing all kinds of articles and videos of pneumonia.
我听到爸爸刷到一个视频，大概是医护人员压力太大，视频中一位女医生传来绝望的叙述，在说“坚持不住了，太累了，不要指望有谁能救你”之类的话。
I heard Dad brushing a video, presumably under too much pressure from medical staff, in which a woman doctor despaired of saying, "I can't hold on, I'm too tired, don't expect anyone to save you."
爸爸看完了装得若无其事的样子，抬起头来看春晚。
Dad looked up to watch the Spring Festival Gala after pretending nothing had happened.
那一刻，我甚至觉得爸妈在这次疫情中得到了过度的信息，某种程度上加重了他们的焦虑，当然，更不用说以他们的辨别能力，是否能判断信息的真假了。
At that moment, I even felt that my parents had been over-informed about the epidemic, adding to their anxiety, not to mention their ability to tell if the information was true or false.
在这个疫情泛滥的除夕节里，我们都努力保持克制冷静，叫自己学会坚强乐观。
During the Lunar New Year's Eve, we all tried to keep our cool and learn to be strong and optimistic.
可是谁也不知道笑脸下的我们还能坚持多久。
But no one knows how long we can hang on under a smiling face.
△ 今年是我的本命年，爸爸送了我金老鼠。
This year is my life year. My father gave me the Golden Mouse.
封城之后所有武汉人都变得更加谨慎，封城好像是有一双手把所有武汉人的头摁下来，让我们弯腰认错。
After the closure of the city all Wuhan people have become more cautious, as if a pair of hands to all Wuhan people's heads down, let us bend down to admit mistakes.
不过也许我们确实应该认错。
But maybe we should admit it.
回家这些天，虽然我也发了朋友圈告诉大家我在武汉了，但碰到不太熟的微信好友过来私信问我是不是在武汉的时候，我都是心头一紧，觉得他们是来凑热闹的，我都没有回复他们的信息。
Home these days, although I also sent a circle of friends to tell everyone that I was in Wuhan, but not too familiar friends came over to ask me whether I was in Wuhan, my mind is tight, I think they are to make fun of, I did not respond to their messages.
此刻的中国版图中，武汉好像是一座孤城，但实际上在这座孤城之内还有无数个孤城，有成千上万个原驻家庭把自己锁在家里，他们表面上安静祥和，心头却有一根线紧绷着。
Wuhan now seems like a lonely city in the Chinese territory, but in fact there are thousands of isolated cities within the city, thousands of former families locked themselves in their homes, their peace on the surface, but a thread of tension in their hearts.
我很害怕等我回了上海，大家会不会因为我是从武汉来的，而跟我保持距离。
I am afraid that when I go back to Shanghai, people will not be able to distance themselves from me because I am from Wuhan.
哦对了，还不知道什么时候能出武汉呢。
Oh, I don't know when I can get out of Wuhan.
期待有更多好消息出来，疫情得到控制，治愈方法出来了，疫苗可以打了。
Looking forward to more good news, the outbreak is under control, the cure is out, the vaccine is ready.
感冒了，我在家打游戏、撸猫△ 我服用的感冒药书尧 25岁 私募基金研究员 家住武昌区我是在杭州工作的武汉人，目前在一家金融公司做私募基金研究员。
I have a cold, I play computer games at home, I take cold medicine Shu Yao 25-year-old private equity researcher live in Wuchang District I am a Wuhan native of Hangzhou, and now I am a private fund researcher at a financial company.
以前每年都是回湖北过年，今年也不例外。
It used to be celebrated every year in Hubei Province, and this year was no exception.
回武汉之前，我感冒了，在杭州看了医生，也开了药，不过我自己总是没按时吃药，就一直反复感冒。
Back to Wuhan, I caught a cold, in Hangzhou to see a doctor, also prescribed drugs, but I always do not take medicine on time, has been repeated colds.
刚开始其实没太在意，看报道上宣传的传染性不如SARS，致死率也不高，而且当时显示的死亡病例大多是本身就有别的疾病，所以就直接回家了。
In fact, at the beginning of the matter did not care too much, to see the report on the spread of less infectious than SARS, the death rate is not high, and most of the deaths revealed at that time are themselves other diseases, so went straight home.
后来逐渐扩散到封城，自己也有点紧张了，看来比一开始想的要严峻很多。
Later gradually spread to the closure of the city, he also a bit nervous, seems to be much more severe than initially thought.
原计划回武汉之后再去赤壁老家，离武汉一个半小时车程的地方，最后只好取消了。
The original plan to go back to Wuhan after the home of Chibi, an hour and a half away from Wuhan, finally had to cancel.
我一直呆在家里，没出过门，自己回来也没做什么准备，家里人都囤好物资了，蔬菜、肉、水，还有卫生用品都备得很齐。
I had stayed at home all the time, and had made no preparations for my return, for my family was hoarding the good stuff, and the vegetables, meat, water, and toiletries were all in order.
我感冒一直没好，还挺提心吊胆的，我都怀疑是不是已经转成一般肺炎了。
My cold has not been good, also quite worried about the fear, I doubt whether has turned into the general pneumonia.
△ 年三十的下午，我约朋友一块线上打游戏。
On the afternoon of??? 30, I have a friend playing online games.
因为怕在武汉的医院里交叉感染，就没去医院。
Because of fear of cross-infection in the Wuhan hospital, did not go to the hospital.
在家约了几个朋友在steam上打游戏《命运2》，还有撸猫，养了三年的橘猫“毛豆”。
have a couple of friends at home playing "Destiny 2" on the stream, and keeping a cat, a three-year-old orange cat, Moody.
△ 我和妈妈一起包饺子以前小时候过年回老家，一大家子看完春晚会围在木炭烧的火炉边，取暖、聊天、守岁，后来爷爷奶奶也搬城里来了，过年就是大家一块聚在家里吃个饭，春晚也不咋看了。
My mother and I used to make dumplings for the Spring Festival. A large family watched the Spring Festival Gala surrounded by a charcoal-burning stove for warmth, conversation and observation. Later, our grandparents moved to the city.
这次算是失去了才知道珍惜？封城以后，反而感觉到过年的珍贵了，所以挺珍惜这几天，能多在家陪陪我妈和毛豆。
This is a loss to know treasure? After the closure of the city, but feel the precious New Year, so cherish these days, can stay with my mother and Maotou.
虽然生病了会比较担心，但这样简单的过年，感觉还是挺好的。
Although sick will be more worried, but such a simple New Year, it still feels good.
因为我本身就比较宅，也不喜欢应酬和热闹。
Because I myself is more mansion, also do not like the entertainment and bustle.
除夕夜，我一个人在家自行观察△ 21号，我戴着口罩出门。
On New Year's Eve, when I was alone at home observing?? 21, I went out wearing a mask.
妮子（化名） 25岁 舞蹈老师 家住江汉区我是武汉人，在本地当舞蹈老师，我平时上课的地点就在汉口火车站旁边的写字楼。
Niko (not real name) 25-year-old dance teachers live in JiangHan District I am Wuhan, when the local dance teachers, I usually classes in Hankou station next to the office.
自从感觉到事态严重后，就没有出过门了，一直在家。
Ever since push comes to shove, he hasn't been out of the house. He's been at home.
从去年12月到今年1月份上旬，基本都在上舞蹈课，刚开始听说新型冠状病毒的消息，其实并没有太放在心上。
From December last year until early January this year, basically in dance classes, just heard the news of the new coronavirus, in fact did not attach much importance to it.
当时能看到的新闻都是叫大家不要担心，没有发现人传人的迹象。
The news we could see at the time was that there was no sign of a human-to-human transmission.
包括汉口火车站，也没看到任何防护措施。
Including Hankou railway station, no protective measures were seen.
我也没怎么上心，生活节奏完全没有被影响。
I am also not very interested in the rhythm of life has not been affected.
一直到封城，这期间收到的信息越来越多，更多的是非官方的，一些武汉的群，或者是存活度不高的微博消息。
By the time the city was closed, more and more information had been received, mostly unofficial, some Wuhan groups, or microblogging messages with low survival rates.
直到封城的官方公告出来，心里直接慌神了，意识到有多严重。
Until the official announcement of the cityscape came out, I was in a panic and realized how serious it was.
封城的消息是23号凌晨两点发布的，我三点钟起床赶紧在App上下单囤货，买了一些速食品和好存放的蔬果。
I got up at three o'clock and quickly went up and down the App. I bought some quick food and some fruits and vegetables for storage.
消毒水一直都抢不到，只能第二天全副武装出门找，但出门也要花费口罩和消毒水，家里的存货也已经见底了。
Disinfectant water has been unable to grab, can only go out the next day heavily armed to find, but also spent on masks and disinfectant, household inventory has been bottomed out.
△ 家里的狗狗因为疫情的潜伏期最多达十几天，我又频频出入高危区，所以我把所有聚会推掉，爸妈要给我送蔬菜也被我劝阻了。
The family dog because of the outbreak incubation period of up to 10 days, I frequent high-risk areas, so I pushed all the parties off, my parents want to send me vegetables was also discouraged.
感觉自己被传染的几率还是蛮大的，最近一个人在家自行观察中。
Feel oneself the probability that infects is still quite big, recently a person at home oneself observation.
这次疫情对工作肯定会有影响，但现在压根没心思去想。
This outbreak will certainly have an impact on our work, but we have no thought at all.
之前在高危区接触太多了，觉得能平安躲过去就很难得了。
Before in the high-risk area contact too much, feel can escape safely is very rare.
最开始我还会出门遛狗，后来只在小区遛狗，再后来就开门让狗在走廊跑两步，现在门都不敢开。
At first I would walk my dog, then I would walk my dog in the neighborhood, then I would open the door for my dog to run two steps in the hallway.
每天在家把电视打开看剧，说实话，也看不进去，除了吃饭睡觉，就是不停地刷新闻，看消息，刷着刷着，会哭一会儿，哭完了继续刷。
Every day at home to open the TV play, to tell the truth, also can not see in, in addition to eating and sleeping, is constantly brushing the news, watching the news, brushing, crying for a while, crying continue to brush.
△ 在家的简餐不过在这个节骨眼上，食欲依旧很好，想吃热干面想吃火锅，有食欲就是健康的证据吧。
But at this point, appetite is still good. If you want hot-and-dry noodles, you should eat hot-and-dry noodles.
当然，每顿不敢吃太多，尽量量少但营养均衡。
Of course, each meal dare not eat too much, as little as possible but nutritionally balanced.
对于现有的信息其实是有些悲观的，感觉在等一个“英雄"出现。
The information available is, in fact, a little pessimistic, and feels like a "hero and quot;"
但实际上如果事态发展初期得到好的监控和管理，我们可能不会像现在这样这么期待一个“英雄”。
But in fact, if things had been well monitored and managed in the early stages, we might not have expected a "hero" as much as we do now.
△ 除夕夜的火锅除夕夜，我打开电视放春晚的节目，还准备了火锅，不过春晚是看不进去的，远程跟朋友视频聊天。
On New Year's Eve, I turned on the TV show and prepared a hot pot, but I couldn't see it on Spring Festival Eve.
用手机刷到一条自称“了解内部体系体质的人”发的微博，总算是看到了一点点希望。
Brush a tweet with your mobile phone saying you "know the constitution of the internal system," and you see a little hope.
原来的过年计划是和家人团聚，和喜欢的人一起逛年货，不过现实是只能一个人在家里过了除夕，这天也是我近期心理状态最差的一天。
The New Year's Eve plan was to reunite with family members and hang out with loved ones, but the reality is that I can only spend New Year's Eve at home alone.
互相陪伴着度过“特别”的新年△ 家里贴了窗花冰点（化名）25岁 分析师 家住汉阳区18岁之前我一直生活在湖北襄阳，之后来到北京读书，现在在北京一家创业公司做分析师。
After spending the "special" New Year's Eve?? s Day, I lived in Xiangyang, Hubei Province. Before I was 18, I lived in Xiangyang, Hubei Province.
我爸妈前几年搬到了武汉，所以我每年都会回武汉过年。
My parents moved to Wuhan a few years ago, so I go back to Wuhan every year to celebrate the New Year.
我早早地就定好了回武汉的车票。
I booked my ticket back to Wuhan early.
小年夜，世界还是一片祥和。
On New Year's Eve, the world is still peaceful.
我满脑袋都是这周只休一天的紧张，因为下周就要回家过年了，还有好多事情没有做完。
My head is full of stress of only one day this week, because I am going home next week to celebrate the New Year, and there are many things left undone.
△ 家里冰箱囤放了食物19号那天，有些令人不安的消息开始蔓延。
After food was hoarded in the refrigerator on the 19th, some disturbing news began to spread.
大家都在讨论武汉肺炎，有些人发消息问我，过年还回家吗。
Everyone is talking about Wuhan pneumonia, some people sent me a message, the New Year return home.
那时我还没有当回事，我说再怎么样，家还是要回去的。
At that time I was not serious, I said how again, the home or to go back.
第二天早上醒来，铺天盖地的就都是武汉爆发肺炎的情况了。
The next morning, wake up, the overwhelming is the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan.
从这一天开始，所有的微信群像爆炸了一样，各种不知道真假的消息涌现。
From that day on, all the microphone groups exploded, and all sorts of false and untrue information sprang up.
许多武汉及周边城市的同学、朋友们都开始讨论退票留守的事情。
Many students and friends in Wuhan and surrounding cities began to discuss the matter of returning tickets left behind.
△ 忙碌的爸妈我看到了所有的消息，也劝说爸妈及时戴上了口罩，减少出门。
Busy Mom and Dad I saw all the information, and persuaded my parents to put on their masks in time to reduce the need to go out.
那个时候开始有点慌，不是担心自己回家可能会被感染，是担心自己再回北京的时候会被大家“区别对待”。
At that time began to panic, not worried about their return home may be infected, is afraid of their return to Beijing will be "differentiated" by everyone.
但我始终没有动摇过，我想回家和爸妈一起过年。
But I never wavered. I wanted to go home and spend New Year with my parents.
我们每年一直是一家三口聚在家里吃年夜饭，坐在沙发上喝茶、吃点心、抢红包、看春晚，这个很平常的流程，是一家人最重要的年终仪式。
We have been a family of three people a year to eat dinner at home, sitting on the sofa for tea, snacks, red packets, watching Chunwan, this is a very common process, is the most important family end-of-year ceremony.
△ 小区楼下没有行人其实我想得非常清楚，我的体质很好，而且我会做好防护、远离人群、时刻观察身体状况，保证自己的健康；如果真的不幸被感染，我一定会第一时间去医院，避免传给其他人。
There are no pedestrians downstairs In fact, I think very clearly, I have good physique, and I will be well protected, away from the crowd, always observing my health, and if I am really unfortunate enough to get infected, I will go to the hospital in the first place and avoid passing it on to others.
可是在周围人的舆论面前，我仍然感觉自己像一个大逆不道的罪人。
But in front of the public opinion around me, I still feel like a sinner against the law.
每当他们讨论起“武汉人”，我都会觉得是在指责我。
Whenever they talk about "Wuhan people," I feel like I'm being blamed.
在他们眼里，每个去过武汉的人都是随时可能爆发的“病毒炸弹”。
In their eyes, every person who has been to Wuhan is ready to explode a "virus bomb."
我分不清大家的劝阻是关心我，还是关心他们自己。
I can't tell whether people are trying to dissuade me from caring about me or themselves.
好在还是有一些朋友对我表示了理解。
Fortunately, there were some friends who understood me.
△做饭的爸爸我在22号下午抵达武汉，第二天刚睡醒就收到好多朋友发来的消息，告诉我武汉封城了。
Father who Cooked After??? I arrived in Wuhan on the afternoon of the 22nd, and I woke up the next day to hear from many friends who told me that Wuhan had been closed.
听到封城的时候心情反而很平静，因为此时此刻我和父母在一起，而不是孤身留守北京，只能远程了解疫区里父母的情况。
When I heard the closure of the city on the contrary very calm, because at this moment I am with my parents, not left alone in Beijing, can only remotely understand the situation of parents in the affected areas.
我有很多朋友留在外地过年，他们只能转发一些新闻，劝父母带口罩。
Many of my friends stay away for the New Year. All they can do is forward some news and persuade parents to wear masks.
但我可以和父母在一起，互相陪伴着度过这个“特别”的新年。
But I can be with my parents and spend this special New Year with each other.
△ 大年三十，出发去上班的爸爸。
Big year 30, set off to work father.
我爸是武汉一个货运站的民警，很久之前就被安排大年三十的晚上在车站值班，然后初一要在火车上值班，他们叫做“跑车”。
My father is a freight station in Wuhan, a long time ago was arranged to be on duty at the station, and then on the first day of the first day of the train, they are called "sports cars.
于是，大年三十，我们一家三口就提前在中午吃了团年饭，然后送爸爸出门上班。
So, the New Year's Eve, our family of three early in the lunch reunion dinner, and then sent his father to work.
虽然武汉宣布封城了，但具体货运车次的停运消息一直没下来，直到除夕夜晚上，我和妈妈还有点担心，毕竟不确定车上会有多少人，会不会有疑似患者。
Although Wuhan announced the closure of the city, but the number of specific cargo vehicles has not been down, until New Year's Eve, my mother and I are still a little worried, after all, not sure how many people will be on the bus, whether there will be suspected patients.
好在我爸接到通知，初一货车停了，他值完班就可以回家了。
Luckily, my father was told that the van had stopped and that he would be able to go home after work.
△ 我在“非典”时期写的日记因为我从小是在襄阳长大的，我们一家人在武汉的亲戚也不多，原本就没有外出的打算，所以这两天就是安心在家里待着，哪里也没去。
After all, I wrote a diary during the "SARS" period because I grew up in Xiangyang, and my family had few relatives in Wuhan, so I just stayed at home for two days and didn't go anywhere.
这次的事情让很多人提到了17年前的SARS时期，但我没有什么印象。
This time a lot of people mentioned the SARS period 17 years ago, but I have no impression.
于是在家翻出来小时候的日记本，竟然真的找到了当年的日记。
So when I was a child, I turned out my diary and found my diary.
2003年非典爆发的时候，我九岁，小学三年级。
When SARS broke out in 2003, I was nine years old and in the third grade of primary school.
那时候湖北不是重灾区，也没有停课什么的，所以印象不深。
Hubei was not a disaster area at that time, nor did it stop classes or anything, so the impression is not deep.
这次再翻到当年的日记，感觉“非典”没有对日常生活造成太大影响，但连小学生都意识到了“非典”，说明当时的宣传工作做得还是很好的。
This time back to the diary, feeling that "SARS" did not have a great impact on daily life, but even the primary school students are aware of "SARS," the publicity work at that time was very good.
△ 年夜饭今年的除夕之夜，原本是一家三口在家里吃年夜饭、看春晚，现在变成了我和妈妈两个人，各自看春晚、抢红包。
Lunar New Year's Eve This New Year's Eve, was originally a family of three people at home to eat New Year's Eve dinner and watch the Spring Festival Gala.
但只要和家人在一起，除夕夜都是好过的。
But New Year's Eve is a good time to be with your family.
我早就给爸妈准备了红包，在跨过0点的时候亲手交给他们。
I had prepared a red envelope for my parents and handed it to them over 0.
△ 单元楼门口的告示目前而言，因为自己和家人都不太出门，所以不是特别担心会被感染。
The sign at the door of flat A: Right now, because neither you nor your family are much away from home, you don't have to worry about getting infected.
但有一些亲人是医护人员，已经连续工作很久了，有点担心他们的健康。
But some of them are paramedics who have been working continuously for a long time, a little worried about their health.
我看到消息，整体的防疫情况应该是很艰难的，但我和家人作为疫区群众，少出门、做好防护、不在网络上传播流言和恐慌情绪，应该就是做好我们能做的事情了。
I see that the overall epidemic situation should be very difficult, but my family and I, as people in affected areas, should do what we can do with less going out, better protecting ourselves, and not spreading gossip and panic online.
不知道后续回北京的行程会不会被改变。
I wonder if the itinerary to Beijing will be changed.
我回来之前想到可能返程存在变数，甚至还多装了两本书……就静观其变吧。
Before I came back, I thought there might be variables on my return journey, even two extra books... just sit tight.
不过还是非常担心自己回北京之后，会被合租的室友、同事、甚至一些朋友当成“病毒传染源”，避之不及，毕竟没有症状不代表没有被感染。
However, I still worry that when I go back to Beijing, I will be treated as a source of infection by my roommates, colleagues and even some friends. After all, no symptoms mean that I am not infected.
还是很多人会有“你为什么要回武汉”之类的想法，我能理解大家的担忧，但还是希望大家可以互相理解吧。
Or many people will have "Why do you want to go back to Wuhan" and so on, I understand the concern, but I hope you can understand each other.
期待全国人民都能互相理解，而不是一边说着“加油武汉”，一边又开地图炮抨击武汉人。
Expect the nation to understand each other, instead of saying "Come on Wuhan," while opening a map gun against the Wuhan people.
期待生活可以尽快恢复正常吧，但这一定是个很漫长的过程。
Expect life to return to normal as soon as possible, but it must be a long process.
虽然外部环境不安全，但一家人每天都能在一起△ 年三十，我在家看手机。
Although the external environment is not safe, but the family can stay together every day after?? 30, I look at my mobile phone.
沛溪 30岁 自由摄影师 家住盘龙城经济开发区我是湖北十堰人，是一名自由摄影师，在武汉经营着自己的摄影工作室，2020年是我第一次在武汉过年，恰好2019年我们搬了新家，年前家人们就决定在武汉过年。
Pei xi 30-year-old freelance photographer living in Panlong City Economic Development Zone I am Hubei Shiyan, a freelance photographer, operating my own studio in Wuhan, 2020 is my first New Year in Wuhan, just 2019 we moved to a new home, families decided to celebrate the New Year in Wuhan.
然而不巧的是赶上了武汉疫情加重，家人1月20日就从十堰过来了，当天她们就已经看新闻说疫情好像加重，有些忧虑，所以在高铁上一路都是带着口罩。
Unfortunately, however, caught up with the increase in the epidemic in Wuhan, family members came from Shiyan on January 20, they have seen the news that the epidemic seems to increase, a little worried, so all the way on the high-speed rail wearing masks.
△ 家里囤的口罩△ 家里囤的蔬菜瓜果1月23日封城那天，看到新闻说实话我心里慌，家人们互相告诫要带口罩，勤洗手，少出门。
On January 23, 2007, after a cooling-off date for the month of January, according to the latest news, family members told each other to wear masks, wash their hands frequently and go out less often.
对于这次的疫情，我很担心，去趟超市都感觉自己像是去战场，人群稍微有点多我就有些不安，尽管大多数人都带着口罩。
With this outbreak, I'm worried that going to the supermarket feels like going to the battlefield, and I'm a little uneasy with a little more people, even though most of them wear masks.
封城之前我还带着妈妈们去家附近的连锁超市、商场购物。
Before the closure of the city, I also took my mothers shopping to supermarket chains and shopping malls near their homes.
但到了封城当天，我们吓得连门都不敢出了，蜗居在家里，我清点了阳台上摆放的物资，扛2周没问题。
But on the day of the sealing of the city, we were so scared that we didn't dare to leave the door. I counted the materials on the balcony and took care of it for two weeks.
△ 大年三十，和家人一起吃午饭。
Lunch with your family?
封城后我和家人几乎不出门，虽然外部环境不安全，但是我们一家人每天都能在一起，吃妈妈做的丰盛的菜肴，内心感觉得很暖。
After the closure of the city and my family almost do not go out, although the external environment is not safe, but we can get together every day, eat my mother's rich cooking, the heart feel very warm.
△ 年夜饭除夕的晚上，我没有心情看春晚，尽管今年春晚有很多我喜欢的明星，但是一想到医院物资紧缺，奋斗在一线的白衣战士们得不到很好的资源配置，我就很着急。
On New Year's Eve, I am not in the mood to watch the Spring Festival Gala. Although there are many stars I like this year, I am worried about the shortage of hospital materials and the lack of proper resource allocation for the white warriors on the frontline.
这个年我过得很焦虑，很担心，心里很难受，除夕夜会是很多人的无眠之夜，只希望第二天早上醒来，会有好消息传来，武汉慢慢变好。
This year I had a very anxious, worried, very sad heart, New Year's Eve will be a sleepless night for many people, only hope the next morning will wake up, there will be good news, Wuhan slowly better.
图片均由受访者提供作者 | 张恒、书尧、妮子、冰点、沛溪编辑| 图拉实习生 | 匡若彤凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：主题一：疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字主题二：口罩全家福请你拍下一家人戴口罩的合影并注明拍摄时间、地点另简述过年经历不少于200字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
Photo by all respondents: Zhang Heng, Shu Yao, Niko, Freezing Point, Peak Stream & amp; Co. & # 45; T & # 45; Please take a picture of your family wearing a mask in a human studio.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
地球青年丨武汉的除夕夜，我一个人在家自行观察。
On New Year's Eve, I watch from home alone.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "地球青年丨武汉的除夕夜，我一个人在家自行观察";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“封城以后，过年更珍贵了”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨互联网时代的僧人Vlogger，拍下最真实的和尚生活',。
Vlogger, a young monk at the age of the Earth, photographed the truest monk or monk at service.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨职高退学后，他考上意大利美院，画了上百种水彩植物',。
When he dropped out of college, Earth youth entered the Italian Academy of Fine Arts and painted hundreds of watercolor plants and designs.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '地球青年丨我在朝鲜做生意12年，倒卖二手电脑，带浙商来淘金',。
Rain & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
