生意砍半、无货可卖，手机线下渠道艰难开年。
Business cut half, no goods to sell, mobile phone line channel difficult to open the new year.
陆柯言。
Kevin Rudd.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：陆柯言 编辑：宋佳楠“ 摘要”春节假期后的两周，本应是手机销售的旺季。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Lu Keyan editor: Song Jiangnan "summary" of the Spring Festival after the two weeks, should be the mobile phone sales peak season.
全国成千上万的手机渠道商、零售商都摩拳擦掌，等待着开工，但疫情的突袭生生给市场泼了一盆冷水。
Thousands of mobile-phone operators and retailers across the country are bracing themselves for work to begin, but the onslaught sent a wet blanket over the market.
面对不断蔓延的疫情，大大小小的手机品牌专卖店在节后纷纷宣布延迟开业。
Faced with the spread of the epidemic, large and small handset brand stores after the festival announced the delay in opening.
2月1日，苹果官方宣布，将临时关闭中国大陆所有直营店直至2月9日。
On February 1, Apple officials announced the temporary closure of all direct stores in mainland China until February 9.
紧接着，位于上海的三星中国最大旗舰店也宣布暂停营业至2月9日。
Next, Shanghai-based Samsung China's largest flagship store also suspended operations until February 9.
国产品牌同样不得不关店暂避疫情。
Domestic brands also had to close stores to avoid the epidemic.
此前包括OPPO、vivo、小米等在内的品牌商都宣布部分地区延期开业，目前在疫情严重的地区，众多品牌门店恢复开业的时间仍然未定。
Brand makers, including OPPO, Vivo and Millet, have previously announced delays in opening parts of the country, and a number of branded stores are still open in hard-hit areas.
除上述品牌外，截至2月14日，虽已有少部分门店开业，但绝大多数处于停摆状态。
In addition to the above-mentioned brand, as of February 14, although a small number of stores have opened, but the vast majority of the state.
这无疑给手机厂商造成了不小的冲击。
This has undoubtedly caused a lot of impact on mobile phone manufacturers.
对ov两家来说，线下一直是重要战场，去年在线下异军突起的华为同样如此。
Off-line has always been a big battleground for the Lov family, as did Huawei, which emerged online last year.
早前从互联网起家的品牌也都在2019年加快了线下布局：小米在去年年末新开了100多家门店，目前门店数量已超过6000家；荣耀线下专卖店和授权店也已超过2000家，线下销量已追平线上。
Earlier brands, which started out on the Internet, have also speeded up offline distribution in 2019: millet opened more than 100 stores late last year, with more than 6,000 now, and more than 2,000 under-the-line franchises and franchises, with offline sales on the horizon.
Strategy Analytics的最新报告称，即使新冠肺炎能够在今年2月下旬或3月份得到控制，中国智能手机第一季度出货量也将下降30%，2020全年中国智能手机的出货量将比预期减少5%。
Even if new crown pneumonia is brought under control in late February or March, shipments of smartphones in China will fall by 30 per cent in the first quarter and shipments of smartphones in China will fall by 5 per cent in 2020 compared with forecasts, according to a new report by Strategy Analytics.
而天风证券分析师郭明錤的报告数字则更加悲观，他认为今年春季期间国内手机市场出货量同比下滑将接近60%，全年出货量将大跌15%。
Guo Mingzhu, an analyst at Tianfeng Securities, said the figures were more pessimistic, saying that domestic cellphone sales would fall nearly 60% year-on-year in the spring and 15% year-on-year.
整个手机产业链都被疫情的阴霾所笼罩，曾经打下的大片线下江山正如履薄冰。
The entire mobile phone industry chain is covered by the haze of the epidemic, once laid down a large line of rivers and mountains is as thin as ice.
厂商亏钱，渠道缺货渠道商最早嗅到了危机。
Manufacturer loses money, channel is short of goods channel merchant first smelt a crisis.
陈金旺在华强北做了五年的手机渠道生意，他的档口就开在龙胜通讯市场。
Chen Jinwang in Huaqiang North do five years of mobile phone channels business, his file opened in the Longsheng communications market.
照往年的行情，春节收假正是一年中生意最火的时候，但受疫情影响，华强北多个商城宣布在2月18日之后开业，龙胜则直接延期到3月6日。
As usual, Spring Festival holiday is the peak of the year, but due to the epidemic, the north of Huaqiang a number of shopping centres announced after February 18, Longsheng directly postponed to March 6.
不开张就意味着无钱可赚。
Not opening means no money to make.
尽管陈金旺手里的货主要走线上渠道，但今年春节的销量仍然让他感到不乐观。
Although the goods in Chen's hands are mainly online channels, but this year's Spring Festival sales still make him not optimistic.
“基本上把我的生意砍掉了一半。
"" It basically cut my business in half.
”他说。
'he said.
相比生意冷淡，眼下更让华强北众多渠道商着急的是货源缺失。
Compared to business apathy, now let Huaqiang North many channel business worried about the lack of supplies.
一方面商场封闭，店里为了年后旺季囤的库存无法提出。
On the one hand, the store closed, the store for the next high season inventory can not be put forward.
另一方面，香港政府方面宣布关闭通往深圳的四大口岸，而这是华强北众多渠道商重要的进货渠道，“封关”导致无货可进，“出一台少一台”。
On the other hand, the Hong Kong government announced the closure of four major ports leading to Shenzhen, an important channel for many channel operators in Huaqiang North.
由于上游供应链推迟了复工时间，国内手机市场在第一季度的供货也将面临短缺的压力。
Supply in the domestic cellphone market will also come under pressure in the first quarter as upstream supply chains delay the resumption of work.
相应地，渠道商手里的机器价格也迎来了整体小幅上涨。
Correspondingly, the machine prices in the hands of channel traders also ushered in a small overall increase.
陈金旺目前正加紧从同行手中找货，希望能够暂时弥补货源荒。
Mr Chen is stepping up his search for goods from his peers in the hope of temporarily making up for the shortage.
和陈金旺一样的渠道商还有很多，他加的十几个华强北微信群不时弹出找货的消息。
And Chen Jinwang the same channel business still have many, he adds a dozen or so Huaqiang North micro-faith groups pop up from time to time to find goods.
“现在很少人专做线下，基本上是大部分线上，小部分走线下。
"There are very few people doing offline, basically most of the line, a small part off the line.
”群里的一位渠道商告诉界面新闻，虽然这个春节整体的消费变少，但线上的收入足以让他撑过疫情的难关。
One channel trader in the group told Interface News that while spending overall for the Spring Festival was lower, the online revenue was enough to see him through the epidemic.
他现在最盼望的就是华强北开市，这样他才能把自己在店里的几百台库存清掉。
What he is looking forward to most is the opening of Huaqiang North so that he can clear the store of hundreds of his stock.
韦德布什证券分析师Daninel Lves表示，中国此次疫情让各大城市交通受限，北上广深等城市客流量也明显下降，致使这些主要销售城市的100万部iPhone销售计划从一季度延迟到二季度。
Dannel Lves, an analyst at Wade Bush Securities, said the outbreak has limited traffic in major cities and significantly reduced traffic to cities such as northbound and deep, delaying the sale of one million iPhones in the major cities from the first quarter to the second.
郭明錤则分析，目前市场有近6000万部手机滞销。
Guo Jingzheng analysis, the current market nearly 60 million mobile phones unmarketable.
vivo华东某区的市场负责人张航告诉界面新闻，在他负责的辖区，往年春节是50万净利润打底，而这个春节的销量比去年下降了75%，加上还要负担的房租和人员成本，直接导致了20万元的亏损。
Zhang Airlines, the market leader of a district in eastern China, told Interface News that Spring Festival, the year in which he was responsible, was the bottom half a million net profit, while sales for the festival fell 75 percent from a year earlier, along with the cost of housing and staffing costs that cost him 200,000 yuan.
张航所负责的辖区有近半外地人，一般在过年期间有两个消费爆发点：节前回家以及返工后。
Zhang is responsible for nearly half of the jurisdiction of the field, generally during the Chinese New Year, there are two consumption flashpoints: home before the holiday and after rework.
张航透露，节前的销售基本未受影响，但节后的爆发点却遥遥无期。
Zhang Airlines revealed that the pre-festival sales are basically unaffected, but after the break-out point is far away.
“根据目前的疫情来看，即使返岗也不会有大的聚集性消费。
"Based on the current epidemic situation, even returning to work will not have a major aggregation of consumption.
这个节点基本上是废了。
This node is basically defunct.
”门店客流锐减，恐迎闭店潮失去一个节点，基本上可以拖累门店的一整年业绩。
Shop traffic has plummeted, and the threat of losing a node to the closing crowd can be a major drag on store performance throughout the year.
“对我们厂商来说影响有限，毕竟我们的经营成本不是特别高，但对门店来说是一次重创。
"The impact on our manufacturers is limited, after all, our operating costs are not particularly high, but it is a major blow to stores.
”张航帮门店算了一笔账：“按一个生意稍好的夫妻店来算，相比起往年，今年春节手机销售业务就少赚近4万，此外还要承担运营商业务和房租的亏损，可以看作是损失了五六万，这接近他们一年收入的五分之一了。
Zhang has calculated an account for a slightly better business: "This year's Spring Festival mobile-phone sales are nearly 40,000 less than in previous years, plus operator and rental losses, which can be considered a loss of 50,000, or nearly one-fifth of their annual income.
”张航预估，目前造成的损失还在许多店主可承受的范围内，但对于一些规模更小的零售商来说，再拖一个月就是生死极限——他们不仅要承担上万元的店租，还要承担隐形亏损。
Zhang estimates the damage is still affordable for many shopkeepers, but for smaller retailers a month is the limit of their lives - not just tens of thousands of dollars in store rentals but also hidden losses.
因为大量库存积压，一旦一季度新品陆续发布，现有的旧款机器会更难卖。
Existing older models will be harder to sell once a new crop is released in the first quarter because of a huge inventory backlog.
广西一家华为授权体验店店长顾华有相同的焦虑。
Gu Hua, a Huawei authorized store manager in Guangxi, shares the same anxieties.
顾华的店开在广西一座知名商场内，店里往日的客流主要依赖周边住户和商场顾客。
Gu Hua's shop is in a well-known shopping mall in Guangxi, which used to rely mainly on customers from surrounding households and shopping malls.
自从当地的防控措施变得越来越严格，逛商场的客流瞬间锐减九成。
Since the local control measures became more stringent, shopping mall traffic fell by 90% in an instant.
以往店里每天能卖出15-20台，但这段时间下滑到仅有几台，甚至有一天的营业额为0。
The store used to be able to sell 15 to 20 units a day, but this time it slid to just a few, and even one day the turnover was 0.
她估计，自己这个春节起码少赚了三万起。
She reckons she made at least 30, 000 fewer trips during the Spring Festival.
一直以来，华为对门店都有一定的考核标准，而月销量占提库数量之比也是考核的一部分，顾华也曾担忧门店在疫情阴霾之下难以达标。
Huawei has always had a certain standard of assessment for stores, and the ratio of monthly sales to the number of withdrawals is part of the assessment, Gu also worried that stores in the shadow of the epidemic difficult to meet the standards.
好在鉴于疫情影响，华为已经对专卖店的考核标准进行了一定更改：以往在规定的提货数量下，要求门店必须达到一定销量，但现在门店可以根据销售情况，自行决定提货的数量，在一定程度上缓解了门店的压力。
Fortunately, the impact of the epidemic, Huawei has made certain changes to the evaluation criteria: in the past, under the specified amount of pick-up, the store must reach a certain number of sales, but now, depending on the sales situation, the store can decide the quantity of pick-up, to some extent relieve the pressure on stores.
实际上，随着越来越多人养成线上消费习惯，手机线下实体店的生意也渐渐难做了起来。
In fact, as more and more people get into online spending habits, the offline physical store business is getting harder to do.
几年前，运营商补贴和厂商补贴都是门店重要利润来源。
A few years ago, operator subsidies and vendor subsidies were important sources of profit for stores.
但由于运营商的收入利润不断下滑，只能进一步压缩营销成本，加上手机市场也在加速洗牌，为保自身，厂商对渠道的补贴同样在减少。
But because operators' profits are falling, marketing costs are being squeezed further, and the mobile-phone market is speeding up the reshuffle, companies are also subsidising their channels to protect themselves.
在这样的情势下，门店只能靠卖手机赚差价，但市场整体并不景气。
In this situation, stores can only rely on selling mobile phones to earn the difference, but the market as a whole is not depressed.
根据Canalys的数据，2019年第四季度，中国智能手机市场的总出货量为8530万台，不仅同比下降了15%，也造成了中国智能手机市场连续11个季度下跌。
According to Canalys, in the fourth quarter of 2019, the total number of smartphones shipped in China was 5m units, down 15% from a year earlier and contributing to the 11-quarter decline in the Chinese smartphone market.
市场预计5G将带来一波换机潮，许多零售商都把希望寄托在2020年，但如果迟迟无法开业，张航担心行业将迎来一波闭店潮。
Many retailers are pinning their hopes on 2020 as the market expects a wave of 5 gigabytes, but if it doesn't open soon, Zhang fears a wave of closures.
寻找出路，微信卖货针对专卖店在疫情影响下出现的困难，各大手机品牌纷纷推出了补贴措施，帮助线下实体店度过难关。
Looking for a way out, micro-letter sales in response to the epidemic under the impact of the difficulties, major mobile phone brands have launched subsidies to help entities online to tide over the difficulties.
据悉，vivo在部分区域也开始依据专卖店工作人员的过往销量及工龄给予工资补贴、额外红包等。
It is reported that Vivo in parts of the region also began to rely on the store staff sales and previous years of service to pay subsidies, additional red packets.
据界面新闻了解，个人可得到的累积补贴达数百元。
According to the Interface News, the accumulated subsidy available to individuals amounts to hundreds of yuan.
“的确是困难了一点，但我们也在找出路。
"It's a bit difficult, but we're looking for a way out.
”顾华说，除了等待疫情过去，实体店也在打通华为与商场侧的资源，希望能够实施一些线上线下结合的销售方案。
As well as waiting for the epidemic to pass, entities are tapping resources at Huawei and the mall in hopes of implementing some online and offline marketing solutions, Gu said.
比如，在商场侧，与万象城的线上会员进行捆绑引流；在华为侧，则考虑利用公司资源进行直播带货，就近门店发货，从而加快周转库存。
For example, on the side of the mall, bundles with online members in Vientiane City, and on the Huawei side, consideration is being given to using company resources for live delivery and delivery to nearby stores, thereby accelerating turnover.
顾华表示，在电商的冲击下，即便没有这次疫情，这种线上线下结合的营销探索也会是实体店发展的必然趋势。
Gu said that under the impact of the electric business, even without the epidemic, this online and offline marketing exploration will be an inevitable trend of entity store development.
在她看来，如果能够积极打通这些资源，店里足以挺过此次疫情。
In her view, the store would have survived the outbreak if it had been able to tap into those resources.
但在更偏僻的县城和乡镇里，许多中小零售店能得到的资源支持很少，唯有自救。
But in the more remote counties and townships, many small and medium-sized retail stores have little resource support but help themselves.
湖南省娄底市新化县，手机导购员杨倩正在为生意发愁。
Mobile phone recruiter Yang Qian is worried about business in Xinhua County, Hunan Province.
老家因为疫情而封路，令她至今没能返回县城开工。
Her hometown because of the outbreak of road closure, so that she has not been able to return to the county start.
无奈之下，她只能靠平时积累的客户人脉，在微信上卖手机。
However, she can only rely on the usual accumulation of customer contacts, in the micro-mail selling mobile phones.
从春节到现在，她一直在线上整理产品资料、做微信导购。
From the Spring Festival until now, she has been on-line collation of product information, do micro-mail guide.
杨倩告诉界面新闻，由于县城圈子小，凭借客户之间的口碑推荐，也有人愿意直接从微信下单。
Yang Qian told the interface news, due to the small circle of county, depending on the word-of-mouth recommendations between customers, there are also people willing to order directly from micro-letters.
虽然生意比不上去年春节，但一天能成交一两单，加上近期还多出了一些急着买平板电脑的顾客，一定程度上弥补了一些生意的缺口。
Business isn't nearly as good as last year's Spring Festival, but a deal or two a day, along with the recent addition of some eager tablet buyers, has made up some of the shortfall.
“这次疫情给我最大的教训，就是不能再坐在店里等顾客上门了。
"The biggest lesson I learned from the epidemic was that I could no longer sit in a store waiting for customers to come.
”杨倩说，她和同行们正在开始打造个人的客户资料库，准备不定期在微信上做好关系维护。
Ms Yang and her peers are starting to build their own customer database, ready to do relationship maintenance on their micro-letters on an irregular basis.
与此同时，店里进一步加大了在短视频平台上的宣传力度，店长自己策划、拍摄内容，也积累了小几百粉丝。
At the same time, the store further increased in the short video platform propaganda, store directors themselves plan, shoot content, but also accumulated a few hundred fans.
IDC发布的疫情对过年手机行业影响报告分析称，由于短期内线上购机的用户中存在部分原本习惯线下购机、但“被迫”转向线上的人群，该部分人群若能够在线上购机中获得相对良好的体验，未来将有望将线上消费习惯扩散和延续。
IDC's analysis of the impact of the epidemic on the mobile phone industry over the past year suggests that the spread and persistence of online consumer habits could be expected in the future, as some users of short-term internal-line buyers are forced to switch to the online segment of the population that would otherwise have been forced to buy machines online.
这样一来，线下实体店只能通过加强服务和运营来提高竞争力。
In this way, offline physical stores can only enhance competitiveness by strengthening services and operations.
对于线下实体店来说，春节、五一、十一、寒暑假都是小高峰，失去了一个旺季的零售商们只能把全部希望寄托在下一个爆发点。
For offline entities, Spring Festival, May Day, November, winter and summer holidays are small peaks, the loss of a busy season retailers can only hope for the next flash point.
“我们每天都在看疫情的消息，等待好转。
"We are watching the news of the epidemic every day, waiting to get better.
只要能撑到五一，那今年的生意就还有救。
Business will be saved this year as long as we can hold out till May Day.
”杨倩说。
"said Yang Qian.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
生意砍半、无货可卖，手机线下渠道艰难开年。
Business cut half, no goods to sell, mobile phone line channel difficult to open the new year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "生意砍半、无货可卖，手机线下渠道艰难开年";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "整个手机产业链都被疫情的阴霾所笼罩，曾经打下的大片线下江山正如履薄冰。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
