韩国一日新增15例累计确诊46例，多例感染源不明传播风险增大。
A total of 46 new cases were diagnosed in Korea in one day, and the risk of unknown transmission was increased in many cases.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
首尔国立大学医院 来源：Wikicommons记者：潘金花“ 疫情时隔一周再度爆发，尤其是接连出现了多例感染路径尚不明确的病例，已引起了韩国卫生部门的高度警惕。
Seoul National University Hospital Source: Wikicommons Journalist: Pan Jinhua "The outbreak has broken out again every week, especially after a series of cases where the infection path is not clear, has aroused the high vigilance of the health authorities in Korea.
”在历经了一周的疫情平台期后，韩国本周再次迎来了新冠肺炎确诊病例的激增。
South Korea this week saw another surge in confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia after a week-long outbreak of the disease.
据韩联社报道，韩国中央防疫对策本部19日通报说，截至当天上午9时，该国新增15例新型冠状病毒感染病例，累计确诊病例已达46例。
As of 9: 00 a.m. on the same day, 15 new cases of coronavirus infection had been reported, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 46, the agency said.
这意味着韩国现已成为中国以外确诊数字第三高的国家。
That means South Korea now has the third highest number of confirmed cases outside China.
在新增病例中，有13例在大邱和庆北地区出现，其中11例曾与2月18日确诊的第31例患者（61岁韩国女性）接触，另外2例的接触史则仍在调查。
Of the new cases, 13 occurred in Daegu and Gyeongbei regions, 11 of which were contacted with the 31 patients (61-year-old Korean women) diagnosed on 18 February, while two others are still under investigation.
其他地区的2例病例中，一例是居住在首尔市城东区的77岁韩国男性，没有海外旅行史，也未曾接触其他病例。
Of the two cases in other regions, one was a 77-year-old Korean man living in the eastern part of Seoul city who had no history of overseas travel and had not been exposed to other cases.
另一例是2月5日确诊的第20例患者（41岁韩国女性）的11岁女儿，也是韩国首例儿童感染病例，这两名患者目前已转入定点医院接受隔离治疗。
Another example is the 11-year-old daughter of a 20-year-old South Korean woman diagnosed on February 5, the first case of infection in a child in South Korea, who have now been referred to designated hospitals for isolation.
据韩国中央防疫对策本部此前通报，第31例患者没有海外旅行史，也未曾接触其他病例，与16日确诊的第29、30例患者一样，感染路径均不明确。
The Ministry of Central Preventive Measures of the Republic of Korea previously informed that the 31 cases did not have overseas travel history, nor contact with other cases, the 16 confirmed cases of 29, 30 patients, the infection path is not clear.
该部19日指出，在新增的15例病例中，有10例曾与第31例患者去过同一处教堂，有1例去过同一家医疗机构。
Of the 15 new cases, 10 had been to the same church as the thirty-first, and one had been to the same health facility, the ministry said Tuesday.
曾接诊感染病例的庆北大学医院和启明大学东山医疗院等医疗机构急诊室现均已关闭。
Medical emergency rooms, such as Gyeongbei University Hospital and Dongshan Medical Institute of Qiming University, which have been treated for infection, are now closed.
第20例病例则是第15例病例（43岁韩国男性）的家人，在居家隔离期间接受的检测结果呈阳性，目前在国军首都医院接受隔离治疗。
The twentieth case, a family member of the fifteenth case (a 43-year-old Korean man), tested positive during isolation and is currently being treated in isolation at the National Military Capital Hospital.
据了解，第15例病例曾在云尚·武汉国际时尚中心韩国馆（THE PLACE）经营卖场，他于1月20日抵韩，2月2日确诊。
The 15th case, known to have been sold at the Korean Pavilion (THE PLACE), Wuhan International Fashion Center, arrived in South Korea on January 20 and was confirmed on February 2.
截至当地时间18日上午9点，韩国累计确诊的31例病例的相关统计。
As of 9: 00 am local time on the 18th, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in the Republic of Korea statistics.
图中，左上为性别分布，女性15人，男性16人；右上为年龄分布；左下为国籍分布，中国籍6人，韩国籍25人；右下为旅行史分布，无旅行史12人，中国14人，泰国2人，新加坡2人，日本1人。
The figure shows the gender distribution at the top left, 15 females and 16 males; the upper right, the age distribution; the lower left, 6 Chinese and 25 Korean; and the lower right, the travel history distribution, with no travel history, 14 from China, 2 from Thailand, 2 from Singapore and 1 from Japan.
疫情时隔一周再度爆发，尤其是接连出现了多例感染路径尚不明确的病例，已引起了韩国卫生部门的高度警惕。
The outbreak has flared up again every week, especially after a series of cases where the route of infection is not clear, has aroused high vigilance in the health sector in Korea.
韩国疾病管理本部中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬18日在例行记者会上表示，从国内外疫情来看，新冠病毒疫情已进入新的局面。
Speaking at a regular press conference on Friday, Minister of Central Prevention of Disease Control of the Ministry of Disease Control of the Republic of Korea said the outbreak of the new crown virus has entered a new situation.
郑银敬表示，前一日和当天出现了3名不曾出国却感染新冠病毒的确诊病例，目前还很难断定这是否与流行病学因素有关，但如果扩大案例定义范围，进行更多检查的话，可能会出现更多的类似患者。
Zheng said it was difficult to determine whether the presence of three confirmed cases of the new crown virus, which had occurred the day before and on the same day, was linked to epidemiological factors, but more similar cases were likely to emerge if the definition of cases were expanded to include more checks.
她强调，卫生部门在采取对入境者进行检疫、接触者进行自我隔离等应对方案的同时，社区要制定防控疫情扩散的对策。
She stressed that the health sector in the quarantine of the entry, contact self-isolation and other response programmes, the community should develop prevention and control of the spread of the epidemic.
韩国总统文在寅18日在青瓦台主持召开国务会议时也提出，有必要将新冠肺炎疫情对经济造成冲击视为“经济非常时期”，而非常时期要有非常之策。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao presided over a meeting of the State Council in Qingwadai on the 18th, also put forward the need to treat the economic impact of the outbreak as an "economic emergency," which requires extraordinary measures.
韩国从18日起已将新冠肺炎纳入“重症急性呼吸系统传染病监管体系”， 加强防治力度，进一步掌握发病感染情况和病原体信息等。
Since 18, the Republic of Korea has incorporated the new crown pneumonia into the SARS surveillance system, strengthening prevention and treatment efforts, and further acquiring information on infectious diseases and pathogens.
新冠肺炎同时也被列入“流感和呼吸道病毒性病原体感染症监控体系”，像季节性流感一样随时实施监控检查，该体系目前共检测8种病毒。
New Crown Pneumonia is also included in the "Influenza and Respiratory Viral Pathogen Infection Surveillance System," which carries out surveillance checks as readily as seasonal influenza, and which currently detects eight viruses.
截至19日上午，韩国确诊的46名确诊患者中，已有16人治愈，其中12人已出院，当天新增的15例病情尚未公开，其余15例病情平稳。
As of Sunday morning, 16 of the 46 patients diagnosed in South Korea had been cured, 12 of whom had been discharged. Fifteen new cases had not been made public that day and the remaining 15 cases were stable.
除确诊病例外，迄今共有10365人接受了新冠病毒检测，其中9335人检测呈阴性，剩余1030人正在检测当中。
So far, 10,365 people have been tested for the new crown virus, of whom 9,335 have tested negative and the remaining 1,030 are being tested.
韩国中央防疫对策本部19日还表示，已悉数确认上月13至26日自武汉入境的2991人行踪。
The central anti-epidemic measures of the Ministry of 19 also said that the number of confirmed last month from 13 to 26 Wuhan, 2,991 people whereabouts.
韩国目前正在加紧检测疑似病例 来源：韩国中央防疫对策本部昨日，韩国也已派出总统专机“空军3”号从“钻石公主”号邮轮上接回了7名韩侨，包括6名韩国公民和1名日籍家属。
South Korea is stepping up surveillance of suspected cases: South Korea's Central Anti-epidemic Policy headquarters yesterday sent a special presidential plane, Air Force 3, to retrieve seven overseas Koreans, including six Korean citizens and a Japanese family member, from the MV Princess Diamond.
他们已于今日上午顺利抵达首尔金浦机场，并已进入临时安置点，开始接受隔离观察。
They arrived at Seoul's Gimpo Airport this morning and have been moved to temporary settlement sites, where they are being quarantined.
按计划，总统专机原本计划接回5人，包括4名韩国公民和1名日籍家属。
The presidential plane was scheduled to take back five people, including four Korean citizens and a Japanese family member.
后来，专机临时接到了2名韩籍乘务员的来韩请求，最终也将他们一并接回。
Later, the special plane received a request from two Korean flight attendants, who eventually brought them back with them.
机场有关人士表示，经下机检查确认，目前7人均未出现感染病毒的疑似症状，他们在金浦机场接受检疫并办理入境手续后，已乘车前往仁川国际机场第一航站楼附近的国立仁川机场检疫所中央检疫医疗支援中心接受隔离观察。
Airport officials said that after disembarkation tests confirmed that none of the seven people had any suspected symptoms of contracting the virus. They were quarantined at Jinpu Airport and cleared for immigration. They were taken by car to the Central Quarantine Medical Support Centre at Incheon International Airport near Terminal 1 of Incheon International Airport.
据了解，“钻石公主”号邮轮共搭载了3711人，其中韩国公民有14人，包括9名乘客、5名乘务员。
According to information received, the vessel carried 3,711 people, 14 of whom were Korean citizens, including 9 passengers and 5 flight attendants.
除了此次派专机接回的6名韩国公民外，船上仍有8名韩国公民，他们可能会在19至21日下船。
In addition to the six South Korean citizens who were picked up by the special plane, there are still eight Korean citizens on board who are likely to disembark between 19 and 21.
但有最新消息称，韩国正在考虑禁止邮轮的乘员入境。
But the latest news is that South Korea is considering banning the crew of a cruise ship.
日本厚生劳动大臣加藤胜信18日曾表示，船上所有乘客的检测样本均已采集完毕，检测结果呈阴性的乘客将于19日开始下船，当局目前的设想是在21日让所有乘客下船。
Japan's Minister of Health, Welfare and Labour Kato said Thursday that all passengers on board had been collected, negative results of the test results will start to disembark on the 19th, the current plan is to allow all passengers to disembark on the 21st.
据共同社19日报道，当天，将有约500人离开“钻石公主”号邮轮。
According to Kyodo news agency 19, about 500 people will leave the "Diamond Princess" cruise ship.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国一日新增15例累计确诊46例，多例感染源不明传播风险增大。
A total of 46 new cases were diagnosed in Korea in one day, and the risk of unknown transmission was increased in many cases.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国一日新增15例累计确诊46例，多例感染源不明传播风险增大";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情时隔一周再度爆发，尤其是接连出现了多例感染路径尚不明确的病例，已引起了韩国卫生部门的高度警惕。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The outbreak has flared up every other week, especially with a spate of cases where the route of infection remains unclear, and has caused heightened alarm in South Korea's health sector.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
