每户平均亏损30万，茶农们还在苦等春天。
Average losses per household of 300,000, tea farmers are still waiting for the spring.
吴容。
Wu Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：吴容 编辑：牙韩翔“ 春茶在全年茶叶消费中占比超过一半，从全国几大茶叶主产区来看，预计今年茶农们损失将达20%-30%。
"Spring tea accounts for more than half the annual tea consumption, and tea farmers are expected to lose 20 percent to 30 percent of their tea this year in major tea-producing areas across the country," Wu said.
”廖雨霖怎么也没料到今年的开春会是这样。
"Liao had never expected it to be like this year's Spring Festival.
他是福建尤溪县的茶农，通过合作社模式拥有近千亩茶田。
He is a tea farmer in Yuxi County Fujian who owns nearly 1000 mu of tea fields through cooperative mode.
尤溪地处福建腹地，介于戴云山脉与武夷山脉之间，是福建为数不多优质茶区，茶叶适生区域达到20万亩，拥有梅赞、福云6号以及小菜茶等茶树良种。
Yuxi is located in the heartland of Fujian Province between Dai Yunshan and Wuyi Mountains. It is one of the few high-quality tea areas in Fujian.
过去，这里产出的茶叶在市场上大受欢迎，因为它是元宵后华东第一批上市的绿茶，人称“华东第一绿”。
In the past, the tea produced here was very popular in the market because it was the first green tea to go on sale in eastern China after the Lantern Festival.
而今年元宵过后，廖雨霖只能看着茶田里茶芽集中萌发、自由生长，却不知道该怎么办。
This year after the Lantern Festival, Liao Yulin can only watch tea buds in the tea field germination, free growth, but do not know how to do.
新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情让茶农们本该忙碌的时节变得清闲起来。
The outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia has freed tea growers from what should have been a busy season.
尤溪绿茶有“华东第一绿”的美称。
Yuxi green tea has the name of "East China First Green."
“现在都没办法开展春茶的采摘，即便摘下来也没人要，茶商们基本都按兵不动，不来收购。
"Now there is no way to carry out spring tea picking, even if no one wanted it, tea traders are basically static, not to buy.
”廖雨霖对界面新闻说，“而且加上疫情之下村镇封路，他们想来也进不来。
"And with the closure of villages and towns under the epidemic, they can't come in," Liao told the Interface News.
”在中国，人们向来喜欢喝春茶。
In China, people have always liked spring tea.
每年2月中旬，是江浙、福建及贵州等地春茶的上新期，经过数月休养和春雨滋润，此时采摘的茶叶芽质颇佳，口感最为甘醇鲜爽。
In mid-February each year, it is the new season of spring tea in Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian and Guizhou. After months of recuperation and spring rain, the tea buds are picked well and the taste is the most mellow.
茶农们通常分成两类，散户一般只负责种植和采摘，像廖雨霖这样开展茶园、合作社模式大农户，除了自己种植外，也收购散户的新茶进行加工，再卖给各路茶商、茶企等，通过零售环节到达消费者手里。
Tea farmers are usually divided into two categories. Retail farmers are generally only responsible for planting and picking, such as Liao Yulin tea garden, cooperative model large farmers, in addition to their own cultivation, but also buy retail tea processing, and then sold to tea dealers, tea enterprises, and through the retail chain to reach consumers.
去年2月，福建尤溪县，茶工们在茶田上工作。
Tea workers work in tea fields in Yuxi County, Fujian, last February.
参照去年，尤溪当地春茶茶青的收购价格是70元一斤。
Reference last year, Yuxi local spring tea Qingqing purchase price is 70 yuan a catty.
在疫情爆发后，由于“无人问津”，如今陷入了无法定价的局面，“市场没有人在消化（春茶），定价多少钱好呢？高一点还是低一点都很尴尬。
"No one in the market is digesting [spring tea], so how much is it going to cost? It's embarrassing to be higher or lower."
”廖雨霖说。
"said Liao.
尤溪县散户居多，以家庭作坊模式为主，用的也是各家各户的几十亩田地，一般年收入约为100万元，由于茶叶的滞销今年损失大概达到20万-30万元。
Yushi County retail investors, mainly to the family workshop model, is also used by the families of dozens of acres of land, general annual income of about 1 million yuan, because of unsold tea this year about 200,000-300,000 yuan.
大农户抗风险能力好些，廖雨霖的损失可能在10%左右。
Large farmers are more risk-resistant, with Liao Yu-lin's losses likely to be around 10%.
“春茶时期错过就错过了，没办法说损失后面的季度或下半年补回来的。
"Spring tea missed on the missed, there is no way to say the loss of the back of the quarter or the second half of the back.
”廖雨霖估计，全县资金亏损达到几千万元。
Liao estimated the county's capital loss reached tens of millions of yuan.
茶工们在茶田中忙碌。
Tea workers are busy in the tea fields.
“事实上，如果春茶无法开采，还可能面临倒春寒，而这对茶芽来说又是伤害。
"In fact, if spring tea cannot be mined, it could also face a cold spell, which is harmful to the buds.
”广东省茶叶流通协会会长李勇刚对界面新闻说。
"Guangdong tea circulation association president Li Yonggang told the interface news.
眼下，广东粤北地区的春茶也即将迎来开采，以韶关的英德红茶为例，一般在在3月上新，如今也面临着采茶滞后的局面。
At present, the Guangdong Guangdong northern region spring tea is also about to ushered in mining, Shaoguan's example of Yingde red tea, generally in March on the new, now also face the situation of lagging tea-picking.
根据李勇刚提供的数据，春茶在全年茶叶消费中一般能占到50%左右的比例，从全国几大茶叶主产区来看，预计茶农们损失达20%-30%。
According to Li Yonggang, spring tea in the annual tea consumption can account for about 50% of the proportion, from several major tea-producing areas in the country, tea farmers are expected to lose 20% to 30%.
根据中商产业研究院的数据，2013年，我国茶叶产量仅192.4万吨，随着茶种植面积扩大，到2017年产量增至260.9万吨。
According to the China Institute of Commerce and Industry, China's tea production was only 1.924 million tons in 2013, increasing to 2.609 million tons by 2017 as the area under tea cultivation expands.
2019年，这个数字增至265万吨左右。
In 2019, this figure increased to around 2.65 million tons.
而茶叶讲求精挑细选，是一个重人力成本的事情。
But tea emphasizes to select carefully, it is a matter of heavy manpower cost.
“五万个茶叶芽头才能制作成一斤茶，可想而知人工有多大。
"Fifty thousand tea sprouts can be made into a catty of tea, which gives you a sense of how big it is.
我们不得不聘请一些本地茶工，意味着要付出更多的人力成本。
We had to hire some local tea workers, which meant more manpower costs.
”陈俊杰是西湖龙井一位茶园的负责人，他正陷入到这样的困境中。
Chen Junjie, the head of a tea garden in Longjing, West Lake, is in such a predicament.
作为名优绿茶主产区的浙江，西湖龙井和苏州碧螺春知名度较高。
As a famous green tea production area in Zhejiang, West Lake Longjing and Suzhou Bi Luochun high visibility.
去年暖冬让今年清明前茶量大增，在杭州西湖龙井，拥有几百亩地的大茶园每逢开采期，都依赖大量茶工进行采茶，眼下遭遇采茶工返工困难，即便抵杭需要隔离14天。
Last year's warm winter saw a huge increase in tea before the Qingming Festival. In Longjing, West Lake, Hangzhou, the tea garden, with hundreds of mu of land, depends on a lot of tea-pickers for tea gathering.
五万个茶芽才可制作成一斤茶，开采人力成本颇高。
Fifty thousand tea buds can be made into a catty of tea, mining human cost is quite high.
外地茶工一般来自江西、安徽等地，以往薪酬为每天150-200元，目前已上涨20%-30%，本地茶工的要价也基本在每天200元以上。
Foreign tea workers generally come from Jiangxi, Anhui and other places, where salaries used to be between 150 and 200 yuan a day, but have now risen by 20% to 30%.
“今年茶叶肯定是没那么快能销售出去，所以需要花点心思。
"Tea isn't going to be sold that fast this year, so something needs to be done.
这些也都是没办法中的办法了。
There's no other way out.
”陈俊杰说。
"said Chen.
他计划今年采取精加工模式，同时做好保鲜措施，比如把茶叶放在冷库、冰箱中用密封真空包装来保管，以便放置时间更长，为了卖个更高的价格。
He plans to adopt a finishing touch this year, while keeping fresh, such as keeping tea in cold storage and refrigerators in sealed vacuum packs for longer periods of time to sell for a higher price.
此外，还会轻装上阵，不像过去那样盲目地压货存货。
In addition, will be lightly loaded, not as in the past blindly pressed goods inventory.
和水果蔬菜的农户一样，茶农们希望借助网络尽可能地带来一些销售。
Tea growers, like fruit and vegetable farmers, hope to make as much sales as possible with the help of the Internet.
“以前一到采摘期，顺丰、京东等快递和电商平台都会茶区设点大规模收购，现在基本没有了，因为疫情人群不能聚集。
"In the past, Shunfeng, Jingdong and other express delivery and electrical business platforms have set up large-scale acquisitions in tea areas, but they are now basically gone because epidemic crowds cannot gather.
”在同乡的帮助下，四川峨眉茶区茶农林辉正在慢慢摸索线上的路子，借助朋友圈和小程序来宣传卖货，自己联系快递物流上门，但快递复工并不多，路上也遇到过停运。
With the help of fellow townsfolk, tea agroforestry in Emei tea area in Sichuan Province is slowly groping the way along the line, using friends and small programs to promote sales, contact express logistics door, but express workers do not return to work, the road has encountered disruption.
正在晾晒的茶叶。
The tea is being dried.
林辉不指望能挣多少钱，摘下来的茶叶哪怕赔钱也要卖出去，“多少填补一点（损失），在家囤久了看着更焦心。
Lin Hui did not expect to earn much money, plucked tea even if the money to sell, "how much to fill a bit [loss], hoarding at home longer looked more anxious.
”作为茶行业链条之中底层环节，茶农是目前最直接“受伤”的一环，李勇刚觉得，更现实的问题在后头。
As the bottom link in the tea industry chain, tea farmers are the most direct "injured" link, Li Yonggang felt, more realistic problems in the back.
茶行业仍处于较为低端的发展模式，摘茶、炒茶和制茶多为手工，机械化程度低导致人力成本高。
Tea industry is still in a relatively low-end development model, tea picking, stir-fried tea and tea-making are mostly manual, low mechanization resulting in high human costs.
“今年采茶增加的人工成本摊到了本就不多的春茶上，这部分溢价从茶农转嫁到流通环节的一个个茶商上（包括产地批发商、销地批发商、加工企业、零售企业等），大概溢价20%-30%，最后到达消费者手里的春茶价格可能比往年贵40%左右。
"This year's increased labor costs are spread over a small portion of the country's spring tea, which is being passed on from camellia farmers to tea merchants in the distribution chain (including wholesalers, wholesalers, processors, retailers, etc.) at an approximate premium of 20% to 30%.
”李勇刚认为，溢价的承担者包括茶商和消费者，这也就是为什么说，疫情结束后的销售期，茶行业将迎来最严峻的时期。
Mr Li believes that the undertakers of the premium include tea traders and consumers, which is why the tea industry faces its toughest period in the post-epidemic sales period.
（文内图片由受访者提供；应受访者要求“陈俊杰”“林辉”为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(The photos are provided by the interviewee; at the request of the interviewee, "Chen Junjie" and "Lin Hui" are not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
每户平均亏损30万，茶农们还在苦等春天。
Average losses per household of 300,000, tea farmers are still waiting for the spring.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "每户平均亏损30万，茶农们还在苦等春天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "春茶在全年茶叶消费中占比超过一半，从全国几大茶叶主产区来看，预计今年茶农们损失将达20%-30%。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Spring tea accounted for more than half of all tea consumed throughout the year, and tea growers are expected to lose 20% to 30% of their tea this year in major tea-producing areas across the country.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
