义乌硬核复工：日流量超20万人次的商贸城开市。
Yiwu hard core workers: more than 200,000 per day flow of the trade city opened.
杨冰柯。
Yang Bingke.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：杨冰柯“ 地方政府和企业高效组织，保证正常复工。
Reporter: Yang Bingke "the local government and the enterprise efficient organization, guarantees the normal return to work.
”“咚～咚～咚咚咚......”舞龙舞狮、敲锣打鼓，2月18日上午九点，义乌国际商贸城与往年一样举行了开市仪式，只是今年的表演人员全都带上了口罩，围观人员也大为减少。
"Dongdong Dong Dong..." Dragon Dance, percussion drumming, February 18 at 9 a.m., Yiwu International Trade City held the opening ceremony as usual, but this year all the performers wear masks, and the number of spectators has been greatly reduced.
总营业面积超过400万平方米的义乌国际商贸城，是中国最大的小商品出口基地之一，往常的日客流量超过20多万人次，整个商贸城共有五大分区市场。
Yiwu International Trade City, with a total turnover of more than 4 million square meters, is one of the largest export bases of small commodities in China.
受疫情影响，商贸城内率先开市的只有一区和二区，其他三个区的开市时间还未明确。
Affected by the outbreak, the City of Trade and Industry was the first to open only one and two, the other three districts have not been clear opening times.
截至2月18日，义乌连续六天无新增新冠肺炎确诊病例，疫情得到较好控制，国际商贸城也比预定的开市时间早了三天，这依然是经营户们过的最长的一个假期。
As of February 18, Yiwu had not had any confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia for six days in a row, the outbreak was under control and the International Trade Center was three days ahead of schedule.
率先开市的商贸城一区设主体市场、生产企业直销中心、商品采购中心、仓储中心、餐饮中心五大经营区，共有9000余个商位11000多户经营户；二区主要经营五金、电子、电器、箱包、雨具、钟表等6大行业，共有8000余个商位，经营户超过万户。
The five major operating areas of the first trading city include main market, direct selling center of production enterprises, commodity purchasing center, storage center and catering center, with more than 9,000 business households.
义乌国际商贸城一区的天然道商铺老板王华富做工艺品生意，他是疫情重地台州人，虽没有接触密切接触者，也一样完成了14日隔离，在开市前顺利通过了健康申报。
Yiwu International Trade City I natural road shop owner Wang Huafu do handicraft business, he is the most affected Taizhou people, although no contact with close contacts, also completed the 14-day isolation, before the opening of the market successfully passed the health declaration.
开市这一天，他通过关卡来到店铺，打扫地面、清洁样品，开始了鼠年第一天的工作。
On the opening day, he came to the store through checkpoints, cleaning the ground, cleaning samples, began work on the first day of the Year.
王华富对商贸城的疫情防控并不担心，“市场有专门的工作人员负责消杀，角角落落都涉及到了”，他对界面新闻记者表示。
Wang Huaofu was not worried about the control of the commercial trade city. "The market has a special staff responsible for eliminating it," he told Interface News.
王华富的店铺主要做内销生意，由于其他省会客人还很难走进来，物流也还未完全开放，他的的生意受到一些影响。
Wang Huafu's shop mainly engaged in domestic sales business, because other provincial capitals are still difficult to enter, logistics is not yet fully open, his business has been affected.
但是开市第一天，采购商们还是通过微信等线上平台下了几单。
But on the first day of the market, buyers or through micromail and other online platform under a few orders.
他对今年的市场仍充满信心，“等疫情好了之后生意还是会比往年好”。
He remained confident this year that "business will be better than usual once the epidemic is over."
除了管理好自己的店铺，王华富作为商贸城工艺品商会的副会长，他还是疫情防控的志愿者，具体负责检查4楼D区的经营户和采购者们是否佩戴口罩、聚集聊天等，哪家经营户需要帮忙，他也要冲在前面去帮忙。
In addition to managing his own shops, Wang Huafu, vice-president of the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Arts and Crafts, is also a volunteer in disease prevention and control. He is responsible for checking whether the operators and buyers in Area D on the 4th floor are wearing masks, gathering and chatting, etc.
据王华富介绍，开市第一天，商贸城工艺品行业开市率超过50%。
According to Wang Huafu, the first day of the market, the Citycraft Industry opened more than 50%.
陶艺工艺商铺的陶小燕做饰品生意，在开市前五六天，她就做好了健康申报。
Pottery craft shop ceramics Xiaoyan do jewelry business, in the opening day five or six days, she made a health declaration.
开市第一天，她在店里接了一个一万多的内销单子，是个金华本地的客户。
On the first day of the market, she received a more than 10, 000 domestic sales list, is a Jinhua local customer.
同时，陶小燕在线上也接了10多个单子，开工第一天订单额总共10多万。
At the same time, Tao Xiaoyan online also received more than 10 orders, the first day of work total more than 100,000.
陶小燕告诉界面新闻，往年开市的这几天都是旺季，今年开市受到疫情影响，单子比往年少很多，虽然不满意，但有订单也算是比较理想了。
Tao Xiaoyan told the interface news that the opening days of the past few days are busy, this year's opening of the market affected by the epidemic, much less than in previous years, although dissatisfied with, but orders are relatively ideal.
与很多商品城经营户一样，陶小燕的饰品生意也是依靠“前店后厂”模式。
And many commodity city operators, Tao Xiaoyan jewelry business is also dependent on the "front store factory" model.
虽然门店开市，但她的工厂还没有复工。
Although the store is open, her factory has not been reopened.
陶小燕的饰品工厂有100多个员工，厂里无论是金华本地还是贵州、河南等外地籍员工，大部分人都有私家车。
Tao Xiaoyan's jewelry factory has more than 100 employees, whether in Jinhua, Guizhou, Henan and other non-local staff, most people have private cars.
接下来的几天，这些员工大部分都会开着私家车到义乌复工，陶小燕会为员工申报政府的车旅补贴。
In the next few days, most of these workers will return to work in private cars, and Tao Xiaoyan will declare government travel subsidies for her employees.
据陶小燕介绍，饰品商会共有六七千个摊位，目前开市率为60%－70%。
According to Tao Xiaoyan, jewelry business has a total of 6,000 stalls, the current opening rate of 60% to 70%.
丁杏娟是一区饰品配件行业一家店铺的老板。
Ding Xingjuan is a district jewelry accessories industry owner of a shop.
她的店铺里，外销比例占30%，内销比例占70%。
In her shop, the proportion of export accounts for 30%, and the proportion of domestic sales 70%.
第一天开市，她的总订单额也只有10几万，且都是内贸订单。
On the first day of trading, her total order was only 100000, and it was all domestic trade orders.
她们目前最大的困难还是工厂未复工，300多个的工人只来了几十个，工人早想来复工，但内地的一些乡镇里不允许居民出门。
Their greatest difficulty is that the factory has not been reopened, with more than 300 workers arriving in the dozens and workers wishing to return to work, but some townships in the interior do not allow residents to leave their homes.
义乌国际商贸城二区的复工情况和一区类似，雨具店老板张吉英在义乌打拼20多年，她一直谨记父亲“看店不离柜台”的教训，只要市场不关门，张吉英就没有周末、没有假期。
Yiwu International Trade City II and similar to the situation in a similar area, rain store owner Zhang Jiying in Yiwu for more than 20 years, she has been bearing in mind her father's "shop watch desk," as long as the market does not close, Zhang Jiying no weekends, no holidays.
因为疫情，今年的春节是张吉英从业以来过的最长的一个假期。
Because of the outbreak, this year's Spring Festival is the longest holiday Zhang has had since taking up her job.
商品城正常开市，经营户和采购商们能够有秩序进入商城，张吉英认为义乌市政府和商城集团做了很多工作，也顶住了很大压力。
Commodity City opened normally, operators and buyers can enter the mall in an orderly manner, Zhang Jiying thought Yiwu City Government and City Group has done a lot of work, but also resisted a lot of pressure.
她的这家雨具店铺80%都是外贸单，开市第一天，不少客户通过微信视频看款式、但无论线上还是实体店今天接单10几万，订单量不大，往年订单量至少会翻一番。
On the first day of the market, many customers looked at the patterns through microphone videos, but both online and physical stores received orders of more than 100,000 today. Orders were small and orders would at least double in previous years.
不过，张吉英的业务员们从正月十二就开始线上办公了，目前手头订单共有100多万。
However, Ms. Zhang's salespeople have been online since January 12, with more than a million orders on hand.
张吉英对现在的状况还算满意。
Zhang Jiying is satisfied with the present situation.
她的工厂正在进行复工申请，厂里有100多名员工。
Her factory, which has more than 100 employees, is in the process of applying for reinstatement.
因为库存有一定的现货，总体上雨具店的生意没有受到工厂未复工的影响。
As the stock is available, the rain shop business as a whole has not been affected by the failure of the factory to resume work.
张吉英认为一家商铺撑不起来商品市场，希望疫情早点过去，只有大家好了才是真的好。
Zhang Jiying believes that a shop can not support the commodity market, hope that the epidemic passed, only we are really good.
在疫情防控管理上，商贸城内实行“最小单元管控”，即每个商位是一个单元格，商户对进店采购商进行二维码验证或信息登记，确保可溯源；每个“管控单位”由九宫格（9个商位）组成，出现异常以快速管控。
In terms of disease control and management, the City operates a "minimum unit control," in which each quotient is a cell in which the merchant performs two-dimensional code verification or information registration with incoming buyers to ensure traceability; each "control unit" is composed of nine digesters (9 quotients) and is unusually fast controlled.
根据商贸城数据，市场内495名党员、32个党支部、6支护商联盟队伍，开展精准“单元作战”，以及时做好纠纷调处、红色代跑等各项服务。
According to business data, 495 party members, 32 Party branches and 6 support companies in the market carry out accurate "unit operations," so as to promptly do a good job of dispute mediation, red running and other services.
经营户和采购商们进出商贸城也有周密的防护安排。
Operators and buyers in and out of the city also have elaborate protection arrangements.
商贸城要求经营户和采购商们通过“义信购”小程序填报《健康申报表》，二维码为绿色则视为经营者或采购商身体健康，凭借二维码、身份证、并通过体温检测后，经营户和采购商方可进入商贸城。
Businesses and purchasers are required to complete a "health declaration form" through a "letter-order" mini-program. A two-dimensional code is regarded as the health of the operator or purchaser, who can enter the city only after passing a two-dimensional code, an identity card and a temperature test.
为了分散人流达到最优防控，开市的国际商贸城一、二区共设16个入口，每个入口都配备了红外 线测温仪等智能设备。
In order to disperse the flow of people to achieve optimal control, Kaesong International Trade City 1, 2 a total of 16 entrances, each equipped with infrared line thermometer and other intelligent equipment.
要尽快让市场转起来，商贸城为一方面为商户减免延期开业期间的商位租金、为进口企业融资输血；另一方面，全力保障市场开市所需的餐饮住宿、外贸、物流、通关、金融等配套产业链服务，为来义采购商提供全方位的吃、住、行和外贸服务，同时，首次来义的外籍采购商还可免费享受3天商城集团旗下酒店的食宿。
To turn the market around as soon as possible, the city offers free accommodation, accommodation, travel and foreign trade services to prospective purchasers by providing them with all-round food, accommodation, travel and foreign trade services required for the opening of the market.
商城防护措施和补偿措施都做的不错，但从上述商贸城老板们的描述看，工厂未能复工直接影响到商贸城经营户们的订单。
Mall protection and compensation measures have done well, but from the above-mentioned owners of the mall described, the failure of the factory to resume work directly affected the business city operators' orders.
义乌国际商贸城本身涉及行业多，影响广泛，义乌国际商贸城开市能带动过更多产业链的复苏。
Yiwu International Trade City itself involves many industries, a wide range of impact, Yiwu International Trade City can lead to more industrial chain recovery.
以中游物流产业为例，义乌2019年快递量累计59.22亿件，仅次于广州市的63.47亿件，排名全国第二。
Taking the midstream logistics industry as an example, Yiwu 2019 accumulated 5.922 billion express parcels, ranking second only to Guangzhou's 6.347 billion units.
一位电商告诉界面新闻，“幸亏开了，我们这帮电商等的太苦了，好几百单压着不能发货，有的还要罚款。
An electric business told the interface news, "Fortunately opened, we are too hard, several hundred single pressure can not deliver goods, some have to fine.
”义乌当地一位市场管理人士称，义乌国际商贸城开市可推动生产经营链条上的企业、商户复工复产。
A local market official in Yiwu said the opening of Yiwu International Trade City could push enterprises and businesses along the production and operation chain back to work.
但这是一个联动性很强的营销体系，没有相关产业尤其是下游的正常运营，特别是消费终端的支撑，即便是开市后情景也不太可期。
But this is a highly dynamic marketing system, there is no related industry, especially downstream normal operation, especially consumer terminal support, even after the opening of the market situation is not very predictable.
义乌鑫特安工艺品厂老板介绍，他年前已经接到2000多万元订单，有个18万多美元的订单，3月底要交货。
Yiwu Xin An Craft Factory owner said he had received more than 20 million yuan in orders, more than $180,000, to be delivered by the end of March.
复工迫在眉睫，难题是义乌务工者多为外来人口。
Resumption of work is imminent and the challenge is that the majority of Yiwu workers are immigrants.
按照2016年的官方数据，义乌市的常驻人口有197.8万人，其中非义乌市户籍人口数量有近120万人，外来务工人员是义乌经济的最重要生力军。
According to official data for 2016, the resident population of Yiwu is 1,978,000, of whom nearly 1.2 million are non-Yiwu residents, and migrant workers are the most important part of the economy.
义乌鑫特安工艺品厂老板介绍，厂里500多名员工，80%-90%来自贵州。
Yiwu Xin An craft factory owners, the factory more than 500 employees, 80% to 90% from Guizhou.
如何在做好疫情防控的同时做好外来务工人员的有序复工成为难题。
How to do well in the prevention and control of the epidemic while doing well the orderly return to work of migrant workers become a difficult problem.
2月13日，浙江省委书记车俊赴金华督查疫情防控和复工复产工作。
On February 13, Zhejiang Provincial Party Secretary Chun Chun went to Jinhua to supervise the prevention and control of the epidemic and resume work.
他强调，让该静的继续静下去，让该动的有序动起来，全力以赴抓好疫情防控工作，积极稳妥推进复工复产。
He stressed, let the quiet to continue to quiet, so that the orderly movement, do its best to do a good job of disease prevention and control, actively and conservatively promote the resumption of work.
随后，义乌官微发布信息称，当前我市新冠肺炎疫情防控工作取得了积极成效，在确保疫情可控的前提下，积极有序推动企业复工复产，努力实现我市经济社会平稳运行，成了当务之急。
At present, the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia epidemic in our city has achieved positive results. Under the premise of ensuring that the outbreak can be brought under control, it is imperative that enterprises resume production and strive for the smooth operation of the city's economy and society.
同时，义乌市人社局发布疫情防控期间做好企业复工用工保障工作的10条通知。
At the same time, Yiwu Municipal Social Bureau issued 10 notices to do well during the prevention and control of the epidemic.
为了做好外来人口复工安排，义乌相关政府部门在2月16日成立了复工企业返工返岗专班。
In order to make arrangements for migrant workers to return to work, the relevant government departments in Yiwu set up a special class on February 16.
当天下午，6辆由政府全额补助的大巴前往云南红河、贵州毕节、安徽濉溪等地迎接准备返回义乌的企业员工。
In the afternoon, six government-subsidized buses went to Honghe, Guizhou, Sui xi and other places in Yunnan province to greet employees returning to Yiwu.
除了这些大巴车外，义乌市政府还派出10个工作小组分别前往河南、安徽、江西、陕西、云南、贵州等地，组织人员返工并招引新员工。
In addition to these buses, the Yiwu Municipal Government has sent 10 working groups to Henan, Anhui, Jiangxi, Shaanxi, Yunnan and Guizhou to organize rework and recruit new employees.
值得一提的是，义乌市政府对于复工企业员工车旅进行补贴。
It is worth mentioning that the Yiwu Municipal Government subsidizes bus travel for employees of reinstated enterprises.
对企业通过包车、企业间拼车等方式接送来源地相对集中的员工所产生的包车费用，由市政府全额补助。
For the enterprise through the charter car, enterprise carpool and other means to transport the source of the relatively concentrated staff of the charter costs, the city government subsidies in full.
对于自行返义的员工，2月22日前通过铁路列车、客运汽车方式来义的企业员工，车票费用全额补贴；对2月23日至2月29日来义的企业员工，减半补贴。
For self-employed workers, the full cost of a ticket shall be subsidized for the employees of enterprises that came to China by train or bus before February 22, and the subsidy shall be halved for the employees of enterprises coming from February 23 to February 29.
对于自驾返义员工在2月22日前返回的，按照同地区乘坐铁路列车标准给予补贴；2月23日至2月29日来义的，减半补贴。
Self-driving employees who return by 22 February are subsidized according to the same regional rail-train standards; for those who return from 23 February to 29 February, the subsidy is halved.
初次来义求职人员还可享受三天免费食宿。
First-time job seekers are also entitled to free accommodation for three days.
截至目前，义乌市千万美元以上外贸企业、亿元以上电商企业、规上工业企业复工率分别达89.6%、84%和83.7%；商城大道等38个重点工程已有序复工。
So far, over ten million US dollars of foreign trade enterprises, more than 100 million yuan of enterprises engaged in electric commerce and 83.7 percent of industrial enterprises have resumed work in an orderly manner.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
义乌硬核复工：日流量超20万人次的商贸城开市。
Yiwu hard core workers: more than 200,000 per day flow of the trade city opened.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "义乌硬核复工：日流量超20万人次的商贸城开市";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "地方政府和企业高效组织，保证正常复工。
var msg _ desc = & quot; efficient organization of local government and businesses to ensure regular resumption of work.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
