美媒吐槽“传谣”议员，27名科学家上《柳叶刀》声讨新冠起源阴谋论。
American media "rumor" congressman, 27 scientists on "The Lancet" to denounce the origin of the new crown conspiracy theory.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：安晶“ 世卫组织总干事谭德塞此前已警告，阴谋论和谣言只会“让我们英雄工作人员的工作更困难”。
Source: Toothworm Reporter: Anjing, WHO director-general Theresa Tanner, has previously warned that conspiracy theories and rumours will only "make the job of our heroic staff more difficult."
”来自美国、英国、澳大利亚、荷兰、西班牙、马来西亚等国的27名科学家在《柳叶刀》联合发表声明，谴责那些认为“新型冠状病毒肺炎并非自然起源”的阴谋论。
In a joint statement in The Lancet, 27 scientists from the United States, Britain, Australia, the Netherlands, Spain and Malaysia condemned conspiracy theories that said "the new coronavirus pneumonia is not of natural origin."
声明同时对中国科研、公共卫生和医务工作者的高效工作表示了支持。
The statement also expressed support for the efficient work of Chinese scientific research, public health and medical workers.
就在上周末，美国共和党参议员柯顿（Tom Cotton）再度在采访中提到新冠病毒起源阴谋论。
Just last weekend, Republican Senator Tom Cotton again referred to conspiracy theories about the origin of the new crown virus in an interview.
美国《华盛顿邮报》也看不下去，在报道中直接以“柯顿不断重复已经被驳斥的新冠病毒阴谋论”为题。
The Washington Post, too, does not look good, reporting directly under the heading "Cotton repeats the rebutted conspiracy theory of the New Crown Virus."
2月18日，《柳叶刀》网站发表了27名科学家联合签署的声明。
On 18 February, the Lancet website published a statement co-signed by 27 scientists.
声明称，作为公共卫生领域的科研人员，“我们一直密切关注着此次新冠病毒疾病COVID-19的情况”。
"We have been following closely the case of the new crown virus disease COVID-19," the statement said.
图片来源：截图各位科学家对中国同行和医务人员能快速鉴别出病原体、采取措施降低疫情影响、与全球健康界分享相关成果表示支持，“这些工作都值得称道”。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Scientists are to be commended for their support for Chinese colleagues and medical personnel who can quickly identify pathogens, take steps to reduce the impact of the epidemic, and share the results with the global health community.
但声明指出，此次疫情中信息快速、公开、透明的分享正在受到关于该疾病起源“谣言和错误信息的威胁”。
But the statement said the rapid, open and transparent sharing of information in the epidemic was being threatened by "rumours and misinformation" about the disease's origin.
“我们在此共同强烈谴责认为COVID-19并非自然起源的阴谋论。
"We are here together to strongly condemn the conspiracy theory that COVID-19 is not of natural origin.
”声明表示，多国科学家已对引发新冠肺炎的病毒SARS-CoV-2的全基因组进行了分析并公开发表了结果，这些结果压倒性证明了该冠状病毒和其它很多新发病原一样，“来源于野生动物”。
The statement said that the results of a genome-wide analysis and public release of the virus SARS-CoV-2, which causes pneumonia, overwhelmingly confirmed that the coronavirus, like many other new pathogens, "originated in wild animals."
声明特别指出，美国国家科学、工程和医学院院长以及他们所代表的科学界人士此前提交的一封信件进一步证明了这种结论。
The statement notes, inter alia, that this conclusion is further supported by a letter previously submitted by the Dean of the United States National College of Science, Engineering and Medicine and the scientific community they represent.
2月6日，美国国家科学、工程和医学院向美国白宫科学和技术政策办公室主任德罗格迈尔（Kelvin Droegemeier）致信。
On February 6, the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine sent a letter to Kelvin Droegemeier, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
信中表示，应德罗格迈尔的要求，学院就新冠病毒肺炎的起源和发展向病毒学、传染病基因组学、基因组学、流行病学等各领域的顶级专家进行了咨询。
The letter indicated that, at the request of Droghmeier, the College had consulted leading experts in virology, epidemiology, genomics and epidemiology on the origin and development of the new crown virus pneumonia.
图片来源：截图信中指出，科研人员正在研究新冠病毒与蝙蝠和其他物种体内病毒之间的关系。
Source: Photographs show that researchers are studying the relationship between the new crown virus and viruses in bats and other species.
截至写信时，“与2019-nCoV最接近的是中国收集的蝙蝠样本中的一种冠状病毒”。
At the time of writing, "the closest thing to 2019-nCoV is a coronavirus in bat samples collected in China."
而根据各领域专家的意见，尽快收集与疫情有关的样本和“野生动物的样本”，将有助于溯源。
Based on the opinions of experts in various fields, the collection of epidemic-related samples and "wild animal samples" as soon as possible will help trace the source.
此次疫情爆发后，“人工合成病毒”、“病毒实验室泄露”、“美国发动病毒战”等各种谣言和阴谋论在网上流传。
"Synthetic viruses," "virus lab leaks," "US virus wars" and other rumors and conspiracy theories have been circulating online since the outbreak of the outbreak.
科学家们在《柳叶刀》上发表的声明重申，阴谋论只会制造恐惧和偏见，对全球合作抗击疫情没有任何帮助。
In a statement published in The Lancet, scientists reiterated that conspiracy theories only create fear and prejudice and do nothing to help the global partnership against the epidemic.
“我们支持世界卫生组织总干事的呼吁：促进科学论证和团结，而非误传和猜想。
"We support the call of the Director-General of the World Health Organization for scientific reasoning and solidarity, not misinformation and speculation.
我们希望所有奋战在中国一线的科研和医务卫生工作者们知道，在此次与病毒的斗争中，我们同你们站在一起。
We hope that all the scientific and medical health workers fighting on the front lines in China know that we stand with you in this fight against the virus.
”在声明上联合署名的27名科学家包括美国疾控中心传染病中心前主任休斯（James M Hughes）和马来西亚著名科学家、尼帕病毒的关键发现者Sai Kit Lam。
The 27 scientists who co-signed the statement included James M. Hughes, former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States, and Sai Kit Lam, a prominent Malaysian scientist and key discoverer of the virus.
19日，中国武汉病毒研究所就人工合成病毒、实验室泄露、某研究生为“零号病人”等网传谣言发文回应，表示“我们问心无愧”。
19, Wuhan virus research institute in China on artificial synthetic viruses, laboratory leaks, a graduate student for "zero patient" and other Internet rumors sent a response, said "we clear conscience.
就在周日，美国共和党参议员柯顿在接受福克斯新闻采访时又再度提到了实验室泄露和人工合成病毒的阴谋论。
Just Sunday, Republican Senator John Colton, in an interview with Fox News, returned to laboratory leaks and conspiracy theories about synthetic viruses.
美国《华盛顿邮报》的报道忍不住吐槽：“为回应柯顿的言论，（以及在《华盛顿邮报》此前的采访中，）众多专家已经驳斥了病毒可能是人工制造的可能。
"In response to Cotton's remarks (and in an earlier interview with The Washington Post), many experts have refuted the possibility that the virus could be manufactured artificially," the Washington Post report said.
”麻省理工学院副教授纳朗（Vipin Narang）认为，此类没有证据、不负责任的阴谋论没有任何帮助，“柯顿应该多花点时间在为美国相关机构提供资金上，为防控病毒出力，而不是推卸责任”。
Vipin Narang, an associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, argues that such unsubstantiated and irresponsible conspiracy theories do not help, and that "Colton should spend more time funding relevant US institutions, contributing to the prevention and control of the virus, rather than shirking responsibility."
世卫组织总干事谭德塞此前已经警告，阴谋论和谣言只会“让我们英雄工作人员的工作更困难”。
The director-general of WHO, Roger Tanner, has previously warned that conspiracy theories and rumours will only "make the job of our heroic staff more difficult."
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美媒吐槽“传谣”议员，27名科学家上《柳叶刀》声讨新冠起源阴谋论。
American media "rumor" congressman, 27 scientists on "The Lancet" to denounce the origin of the new crown conspiracy theory.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美媒吐槽“传谣”议员，27名科学家上《柳叶刀》声讨新冠起源阴谋论";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "世卫组织总干事谭德塞此前已警告，阴谋论和谣言只会“让我们英雄工作人员的工作更困难”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; WHO Director-General Lindsay has previously warned that conspiracy theories and rumours can only "make the job of our heroic staff more difficult."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
