独家深访：从发现到封城，武汉一线医护复盘疫情为何爆发/* declared */。
Exclusive in-depth interviews: From discovery to sealing, Wuhan first-line medical complex outbreak / * declared * /.
独家深访：从发现到封城，武汉一线医护复盘疫情为何爆发<br>。
Exclusive in-depth interviews: Why did Wuhan's first-line medical duplicated dish outbreak at & lt; br & gt; from discovery to closure?
| title       = 独家深访：从发现到封城，武汉一线医护复盘疫情为何爆发。
Exclusive deep interview: From discovery to closure, why did Wuhan's first-line medical check-up outbreak break out?
独家深访：从发现到封城，武汉一线医护复盘疫情为何爆发。
Exclusive deep interview: From discovery to seal city, Wuhan first-line medical care why the outbreak of the epidemic.
徐梅。
Xu Mei.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
“湖北省委书记说‘绝对不能让黄冈变成第二个武汉’，希望其他城市不会重复武汉的悲剧！”“我上班去了！我的防护绝对专业，莫担心！你把我说的都写出来，就说武汉一线医护再难也能坚持再上一阵子班，关在屋里的普通老百姓先不要着急上班，我们一起再坚持下，把我们原来幸福的生活找回来。
"Hubei Provincial Party Secretary said, 'Huanggang must not become a second Wuhan', hope other cities will not repeat Wuhan's tragedy!" "I went to work! My defense absolutely professional, do not worry!
”本文首发于南方人物周刊文| 本刊记者徐梅编辑|蒯乐昊 周建平全文约4040字，细读大约需要10分钟1月30日，海军军医大学医疗队重症监护室护士结束一天工作脱下橡胶手套后浮肿的双手 图 / 新华社陈晨午饭是两菜一汤，孙平（化名）做给自己一个人吃的，她是武汉一家三甲医院的一线医护，“对抗这个病毒，全靠免疫力，必须要吃好。
Quine Le Hao Chou Kin-ping's full text is about 4040 words. It takes about 10 minutes to read carefully. On 30 January, nurses from the intensive care unit of the Naval Medical University took off their rubber gloves and swollen hands.
”吃完饭，她骑上电动车去医院上班，交通管制后，这是她最得力的交通工具。
After dinner, she rides an electric car to work at the hospital, her most efficient means of transport after traffic control.
一个班七个小时，“在班上不喝水不吃饭，连厕所都不上。
In a class of seven hours, "no water, no food, not even toilet.
”忙不过来是一方面，更重要的是防护服和N95口罩都是限量发的。
"Busy work is one thing. More important, protective clothing and N95 masks are issued in limited quantities.
长期佩戴口罩，她的脸上被压出很深的一道勒痕，“绳子勒在耳根，像刀子割一样。
The long-term wearing of a mask, her face was a deep strangulation, "rope in the ears, like a knife cut.
”但这也是一种“幸福”——只有防护极为严密的医用N95才能勒出这样的效果，“N95只有一线直接接触病人的才能戴，一天只发一个。
But it is also a form of "happiness" - only the highly fortified N95, which is worn only by people who are in direct contact with their patients, is delivered only once a day.
”医院给一线医护提供了宿舍，孙平住了两天，受不了，他们医院是一家典型的小三甲医院，加上行政后勤一共一千多人，“现在各科室加在一起，已经倒下百分之二十，我们科室疑似的有好几个。
The hospital provided dormitories for first-line medical care, and Sun Ping lived for two days. The hospital was a typical small triple-A hospital, with a total administrative staff of more than 1,000.
”在宿舍住，她睡觉都不敢取下口罩，“因为你不知道谁可能‘中招’了，现在很多人是没有症状的。
Living in a dorm room, she doesn't dare to take off her mask when she sleeps. "Because you don't know who might have pulled it off.
”有同事暂时没有症状，但是出于医生的自审，感觉自己已经中招，“觉得不放心”，连拍三天肺部CT显示，“头两天都正常，第三天，肺部就显示真的有问题。
"Some colleagues had no symptoms for a while, but because of the doctor's self-examination, he felt" uneasy "and a three-day lung CT scan showed that" the first two days were normal, and on the third day the lungs showed real problems.
你说恐怖不恐怖？”在暂时没有条件做试剂盒检测确诊时，肺部CT是准确度较高的检验方式。
Do you say terror is not terror? "In the absence of conditions for the diagnosis of the kit test, lung CT is a relatively high accuracy test.
她很早就跟家人分开住，闺女劝她不要再去上班了，“妈妈你不要去上班了！你不怕吗？就算辞职会没收你的职业资格证，我们家又不是没钱生活，很快我就可以工作养家了。
She was separated from her family very early, and the girl advised her not to go to work any more. "Mom, don't you go to work! You're not afraid? Even if you quit your job and confiscate your vocational certificate, my family is not without money, and soon I can work to support my family.
”孙平哭了出来，“我当然害怕，能不怕吗？身边的人一个一个倒下，我都不知道我们这么一个小医院能不能撑得住。
"Of course I'm afraid, can I fear thatOne by one the people around me will fall down, and I don't know whether we can sustain a small hospital like this one.
”“我想说出我看到、知道的真实情况，我不是想制造恐慌，我也不想追谁的责，我就是想要普通老百姓知道真实的情况，全国各地从上到下能够重视起来。
"I want to tell the truth about what I saw and knew. I don't want to create panic, I don't want to chase after anyone.
”。
"
她还把微信朋友圈全部向我敞开，2019年十一国庆节，一家人出去旅行，她在照片里笑得灿烂，“在疫情发生前，我的生活很幸福。
She also opened up the circle of friends and micro-letters to me, 2019 11 National Day, the family travel, she smiled brightly, "Before the outbreak, my life was very happy.
”除了美满的家庭，她还有一个和睦友好的科室小环境，“我们科室的氛围在院里都是数一数二的。
"In addition to her happy family, she also has a friendly office environment," the atmosphere in our department is the best in the courtyard.
”看到武汉市第五医院吕小红主任实名向媒体讲述武汉疫情隐匿的亲身观察，她赞叹这位同行的正直和勇气。
"Seeing Lu Xiaohong, director of Wuhan Fifth Hospital, speaking in real name to the media about the hidden epidemic in Wuhan, she praised the integrity and courage of her colleague.
“湖北省委书记说‘绝对不能让黄冈变成第二个武汉’，希望其他城市不会重复武汉的悲剧！”穿戴齐整，关上家门时，她在微信里喊了一句，“我上班去了！我的防护绝对专业，莫担心！你把我说的都写出来，就说武汉一线医护再难也能坚持再上一阵子班，关在屋里的普通老百姓先不要着急上班，我们一起再坚持下，把我们原来幸福的生活找回来。
"Hubei provincial party secretary said 'absolutely not to let Huanggang become a second Wuhan', hope other cities will not repeat Wuhan's tragedy!" Wearing neat, closed the door, she cried in a micro-letter, "I go to work!
”制图 /卢俊杰孙平口述：1、12月底、1月初，我们已经发现这种病毒跟以前完全不同，当时我们管它叫“病毒肺”2019年12月底，我们看到从某大型综合三甲医院传出来的一个“白肺”动态CT，病人的肺部全部被病毒侵蚀。
By the end of December 2019, we were calling it "viral lung." At the end of December 2019, we had seen a "white lung" dynamic CT emanating from a large complex, triple-A hospital.
十秒钟的视频看得人头皮发麻。
The ten-second video looks creepy.
我问过我们医院专业的肺部CT诊断医生，这种显示会不会是病毒性感冒或者其他的病症。
I asked our professional pulmonary CT diagnostician if it was a viral cold or some other condition.
“完全不一样，其他的都不会是像这样满腔的、弥散性的。
"It is quite different, nothing else can be as full and diffuse as this.
”他回答得很肯定。
"He answered affirmatively.
当时就有人认为是“疑似非典”，大家都很敏感，马上就上了标准防护——口罩、帽子、手套。
At that time, some people thought that "suspected SARS," we are very sensitive, immediately on the standard protection - masks, hats, gloves.
12月30号左右吧，当时有报道说，“武汉不明原因肺炎已做好隔离，结果将第一时间公布”，我们也特别关注，等着上面发确认通知。
Around December 30, when it was reported that "Wuhan unknown causes of pneumonia have been isolated, the results will be announced at the first time," we also pay special attention, waiting for the above-mentioned confirmation notice.
没几天院里就组织了培训，通知上写的是“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”，后来我们就简称它为“病毒肺”。
A few days later, the hospital organized a training session that read "viral pneumonia of unknown cause," which we later called "viral lung" for short.
所有科室都要求参加，培训材料严格保密，通知上写了拍照外传造成严重后果的要追责。
All sections are required to participate, training materials are strictly confidential, and notices are posted to hold accountable those responsible for serious consequences.
1月初的时候，各家医院先后出现了疑似病人，有一些小的医院，不接收发热病人，把他们推到其他医院。
By the beginning of January, there had been suspicious cases in hospitals, and there were small hospitals that did not receive febrile patients, pushing them to other hospitals.
这种情况被其他几家医院联名告到武汉卫健委，上面就出了通知，各家医院接诊的病人必须自己治，把转诊的口子堵住了。
This situation was several other hospitals jointly reported to Wuhan Health Committee, on the above notice, each hospital patients have to treat themselves, the referral gash.
就像武汉五医院吕小红主任说的那样，大多数医院都不是传染病医院，并不具备隔离条件。
As said by Lu Xiaohong, director of Wuhan Five Hospitals, most hospitals are not hospitals for infectious diseases and do not have isolation conditions.
只能紧急腾出隔离病区，整合联动本院呼吸内科、急诊科、发热门诊、重症监护一起来应对。
Only urgent release isolation area, integration of the hospital respiratory medicine, emergency department, fever clinic, intensive care together to deal with.
那时候已经有要打硬仗的感觉了，我相信所有的医院都是有所预备的，但是对外没有发布和提醒。
There was already a sense of battle to be fought, and I believe all the hospitals were prepared, but there were no announcements or reminders.
按照传染病管理规定，医院没有报告疑似病例的权限，对外发布必须都听武汉卫健委的。
According to the regulations on infectious disease management, hospitals have no authority to report suspected cases.
当时上面要求我们一切标本都不允许外送，那时候也没有出来专门的“病毒肺”核酸检测试剂，只能逐一排除是否是由其他已知病毒引起的，如果不是，就把这个结果，再加上放射科首诊做出的肺部CT诊断，确定为“病毒肺疑似”。
At the time, we were asked not to send out any specimens, and there was no specific RNA reagent available at that time. Only other known viruses could be excluded, and if not, that result, together with the CT diagnosis of the lung made by the radiology first visit, was identified as "suspected viral lung."
1月28日，武汉协和医院感染性疾病科，忙碌的医护人员 图 / 新华社 肖艺九2、1月中旬，“斑片状感染病灶”成为医生间约定俗成的描述，已有医护人员感染患病，但医院无权上调防护级别1月中的时候，我们全科都已经进入高度紧张状态，那时候已经听说有的医院收治的疑似病人死了。
January 28, Wuhan Concorde Hospital Infectious Disease Division, busy medical staff chart / Xinhua News Agency Xiao Yi In mid-January, the "plaque infection focus" became a common description among doctors, but the hospital did not have the right to raise the level of protection in mid-January.
每家医院的急诊都挤满了人，各医院之间沟通信息，情况都不好。
The emergency rooms at each hospital were packed with people, and the communication between hospitals was poor.
当时还不让在诊断书上写“病毒性肺炎”，有的医院就写“斑片状感染病灶”，各医院都是通的，好多都照着这样写，医生如果看到病人拿着“双肺多发斑片状感染病灶”（相当于高度疑似）的初诊意见来就诊，基本都明白这是什么意思，也知道该怎么处理。
At that time, the diagnosis was not allowed to write "viral pneumonia," some hospitals wrote "plaque infection lesion", hospitals are all common, many write, the doctor saw patients with "two lung multiple plaque infection lesions" (equivalent to highly suspected) to see the patients, basically understand what this means, and how to deal with it.
发热病房的医护人员有条件的已经穿上了防护服。
The paramedics in the fever ward have been equipped with protective clothing.
但整个医院的防护等级还没有统一调整，只有上到三级防护，才能够更大程度地保证医护人员免受感染。
However, the level of protection of the whole hospital has not been uniform adjustment, only up to the third level of protection, to ensure a greater degree of health-care personnel from infection.
但从1月6日至1月10日，武汉市卫健委没再就“不明原因肺炎”发布通报。
But from January 6 to January 10, Wuhan city health committee on "unknown causes of pneumonia" no longer issued a notice.
我们收到的还是截至1月5日，卫健委的通报：“符合不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊断患者59例，未发现明确的人传人证据，未发现医务人员感染。
We also received as of January 5, Wei Jiancao reported: "Unexplained diagnosis of viral pneumonia in 59 cases, no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission, no medical staff found to be infected.
”当时整个武汉市没有一家医院能擅自调整上升防护等级，这期间，也是医护人员感染最多的时候，我们院里就有几个同事感染。
No hospital in Wuhan was able to adjust the level of protection without permission, and during this period, when medical staff were most affected, several colleagues in our hospital became infected.
最令人痛惜的是协和神经外科那个病人导致的十几个医护人员的感染。
Most deplorable was the infection of a dozen paramedics caused by the patient in Concorde Neurosurgery.
其实1月7日当晚手术，医生之间已经相互转告，要小心防护，但因为那时候卫健委对病毒肺的通报是“未发现明确的人传人证据”，病人也没有出现任何呼吸症状，只能按照医院常规手术防护要求操作。
In fact, the night of January 7, doctors have told each other to be careful guard, but because at that time the Wei Health Commission reported the virus lung "no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission," the patient did not appear any respiratory symptoms, can only operate in accordance with the general hospital surgical protection requirements.
最后这个病人发病，1月15日，确诊新型冠状病毒感染，医护人员很委屈，因为并不存在外界所说的“疏忽”，（当时）能做到的防护都已经做到最好了。
Finally, the patient became ill, January 15, the diagnosis of a new coronavirus infection, medical personnel were aggrieved, because there is no known "negligence," the (then) can do the best of the protection.
武汉市卫健委16号发布的通告中，仍未提及医护人员感染情况。
Wuhan city health committee issued the circular 16, still did not mention the health-care staff infection.
这个事情我跟很多其他医院的医护人员一样，20号才知道，我们都说，要不是钟南山院士把这个事情说出来，医生里还不知道要倒多少人。
I knew it on the 20th, as many other hospital nurses do, and we all said that the doctor would not know how many people were to fall had it not been for the fact that the academician Zhong Nan-shan had not spoken about it.
一线尚且如此，普通老百姓，更是完全不知道埋伏在身边的凶险。
Even so, ordinary people, do not know ambush in the side of the dangerous.
1月18号，过小年，武汉这边还是蛮重视这个节日的，亲朋好友都会约聚餐，地铁里全是人，没有一个戴口罩的。
January 18, small year, Wuhan or this side of the importance of this holiday, friends and family will meet for dinner, the subway is full of people, no one wearing a mask.
单位三令五申不要往外说，但我其实一直在我们小区的业主群里提醒邻居们重视这个事，我相信医护人员里绝对不止我一个人在这样做，但是靠个人的力量实在太小了。
The unit repeatedly said not to go outside, but I have been in our neighborhood owners group to remind neighbors that this matter, I believe that the medical staff is not only I do this alone, but the strength of the individual is too small.
我们也不敢在网上发布，害怕被扣上“造谣”、“制造恐慌”的帽子。
We are also afraid to publish online, afraid of being branded as "disinformation" or "creating panic."
1月20日，钟院士接受白岩松采访时说“可以肯定人传人”，老百姓这才重视了，戴口罩的一下多起来了。
On January 20, academician Bai Yansong said in an interview, "can be sure of human-to-person", the common people this attention, wearing a mask more.
我们在一线的，此前就已经看得很清楚，这个病毒它就是传染性的。
We're on the front line, as we've seen all along, and the virus is contagious.
一个病房三个病人，彼此间并没有什么交流接触，三个都是病毒肺。
There were three patients in one ward. There was no communication. All three were viral lungs.
还有一个小伙子，很帅，他说本地媒体报道得那么轻描淡写，他感染后还继续上班，结果把同一个办公室的都传染了。
Another young man, handsome, said local media reports were so understated that he went back to work after his infection and infected everyone in the same office.
我那时候就跟家里人分开住了。
I was separated from my family back then.
那是我最难过的日子，感到憋闷。
It was the saddest day for me, and I felt suffocated.
作为医护人员，我必须服从纪律。
As a paramedic, I have to be disciplined.
但我不知道为什么我们什么都不能说。
But I don't know why we can't say anything.
1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医护人员对病人进行治疗 图 / 新华社 熊琦3、1月23日至今，封城之后，医院被蜂拥而至的病患围住，收治面临很大压力钟院士发出预警后，一下子很多市民涌进医院，要求检查。
After the city was closed on January 23, the hospital was surrounded by a flood of patients, and many people rushed to the hospital for check-ups after receiving warnings from academicians under severe pressure.
你看过1月23号协和医院那个人山人海挤进发热门诊的视频吧？虽然22号就紧急新增了7家医院定点收治发热病人，后来又连增两批，希望做到专病专治，但是由于前期失控，疫情蔓延了，专门收治的设想根本实现不了。
You've seen a video of the crowds crowding into the fever clinic at Concorde Hospital on January 23rd, and although the number 22 has added seven new emergency hospitals to treat febrile patients, and then two more in a row in the hope of treating febrile patients, the idea of specialized treatment simply could not be realized because the epidemic got out of hand in the early stages.
从1月23号封城，到1月26号零点开始交通管制，那几天每天至少有五六百人在我们医院做CT，没有任何办法维持现场秩序。
From the 23 January closure to 0 p.m. on 26 January, when traffic control began, at least five or six hundred people a day were doing CT in our hospital, and there was no way to maintain order at the scene.
这两天人稍微少了一些，一天查出的疑似病例也还有小两百号人，我们整个医院，也就两百来张隔离病区床位，现在普通科室基本都关了，全力应对发热。
There were a little fewer people in those two days, and there were two hundred suspected cases detected a day, and our whole hospital, with about two hundred beds in the quarantined area, was now largely shut down and was struggling with fever.
你说这个情况紧急不紧急？其他医院也都差不多的，你只要看看住院有多难就知道了。
You said this situation is urgent and not urgent? Other hospitals are similar, you just have to see how difficult it is to be hospitalized.
都有亲戚朋友找，但是这个时候想要住院，实话说院领导出面也不好解决。
Have relatives and friends looking for, but this time want to be hospitalized, the truth is that the leadership of the court is not easy to solve.
我从医这么多年了，心肠也还没有磨硬。
After all these years as a doctor, my heart hasn't hardened yet.
昨天看到一对老夫妇，孩子都不在身边，颤巍巍地来医院，拍片出来情况很不好，但是没有床位，只能让他们回家。
Yesterday saw an old couple, the children are not around, trembling to the hospital, filming out very bad, but there are no beds, can only let them go home.
怎么办？我不知道，我只能告诉他们回家要怎么隔离。
What? I don't know. I just have to tell them how to isolate them when they get home.
太可怜了，这个病对年老体弱的人是极大的考验。
What a pity! This disease is a great test for the old and the infirm.
我不想引起恐慌，但是必须让大家知道这个病毒的厉害，它是没有非典那么致命，临床看病程进展没那么快，但传染速度只强不弱。
I don't want to cause panic, but we have to let everyone know that the virus is not as deadly as SARS, clinical progress is not so fast, but the rate of infection is only strong.
你可能不发病，但你也极有可能是一个很毒的传染源。
You may not get sick, but you may also be a very toxic source of infection.
医院之间，同行都是通的，一起开会学习啊，或者是一个专业的，都有跨医院的大群，听说有个放射科的全省大群里，最近一个多月，都没有一个人敢说话，可能是不知道该说什么吧。
Between the hospitals, the colleagues are all connected, together to study ah, or a professional, there is a large cross-hospital group, heard that there is a large group of radiology, the last more than a month, no one dare to speak, may not know what to say.
放射科实在太关键了。
Radiology is just too critical.
媒体宣传后，老百姓都认核酸试剂检测确诊，其实医院里大家都知道，肺部CT就非常说明问题，只要肺片显示“高度疑似”，经核酸检测确诊比例就非常高。
After the media campaign, the common people recognize the diagnosis of nucleic acid reagent testing, in fact, everyone in the hospital know, lung CT is very telling, as long as the lung shows "highly suspect," the proportion of confirmed nucleic acid testing is very high.
我们医院的医护人员也都是拍片子，疑似就直接开始治疗，早隔离早治疗早恢复，一线缺人手啊，去指定检测机构，排队等核酸检测太慢了，一线医护人员时间耽误不起。
Our hospital medical staff are also filmed, suspected to start treatment directly, early isolation early treatment early recovery, the first-line shortage of staff ah, to designate testing institutions, queuing Nucleic Acid testing too slow, the first-line medical staff can not afford to delay.
这两天陆续有一线医护的声音出来，电视上的报道也多起来了，各个业务群里也稍稍活跃了一点。
Over the past two days there has been a steady stream of first-line medical attention, as well as more television coverage and a bit of activity in various business groups.
我们医院的防护级别已经连升三级了，必须让老百姓对疫情的传播性、风险性、致病性充分知情。
The level of protection in our hospital has been raised to three levels. People must be fully informed of the spread, risk and pathogenicity of the epidemic.
这些就是我所知道的疫情从发现到蔓延的整个过程吧，当然也只是我所在的一个小片区里的观察，但我想它也可以说明很多问题。
This is what I know about the epidemic from discovery to spread, and of course it's only a small observation in my area, but I think it speaks for itself.
我不埋怨谁，也不想责怪谁，更不想让老百姓恐慌。
I do not blame anyone, do not want to blame anyone, not to let people panic.
现在国家重视，各方面也都全力支援，我们在一线再难也要坚持扛下来。
Now the country attaches importance to, all sides also all full support, we in the first line again difficult must persist to carry down.
我不知道我能不能一直扛得住，我希望其他城市的人不要像武汉这样，付出这么大的代价。
I don't know if I can carry it all the time. I hope people in other cities don't pay as much as Wuhan does.
（为保护受访者隐私，文中孙平为化名。
To protect the privacy of the interviewee, Sun Pin is an alias.
在此，也感谢所有接受本刊采访，向读者传递真相的一线医护。
Here, too, thanks to all the first line of medical care who have been interviewed by this print to convey the truth to readers.
）新型冠状病毒肺炎专题：      征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
(New Coronavirus Pneumonia: Gathering the True Story of a Coronavirus Recording Our Fate The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of the New Crown Pneumonia, writing down the stories you are experiencing or have witnessed.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（留言不会被放出，绝对会对您的个人信息保密）2、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
(Message will not be released and your personal information will be kept confidential) 2. Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo of Southern Personality Weekly, # I have a word in the epidemic area # Please make sure the content of the contribution is true, objective, rational, do not rumor, do not spread rumor.
。
.
