我在国外抢口罩。
I'm robbing masks abroad.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
从搜集到运输，每一个关卡都会出现意想不到的困难。
Unexpected difficulties arise at every level, from collection to transportation.
经历了被提价、被毁约、被骗等种种意外之后，海外华人机智地趟出了自己的线路。
After a series of surprises such as being priced up, broken, and tricked, overseas Chinese waded out of their lines wittily.
但情况瞬息万变。
But the situation is changing rapidly.
仍然有一些海外物资，因为各种各样的原因，还在赶往武汉的路上，不知何时抵达。
There are still some overseas materials, for a variety of reasons, are still on the way to Wuhan, do not know when to arrive.
文｜韩逸编辑｜萧祷1「一箱给我们100美金，我们就放行。
less than one + less than +: Give us a case of $100 and we'll let it go.
」2月7号，俄罗斯莫斯科谢列梅捷沃机场门口，30箱口罩因为「文件不符」，滞留在海关，进退两难。
On February 7, 30 boxes of face masks stuck at the customs office at the entrance to Sheremetyevo airport in Moscow, Russia, because "documents do not match."
这情形对吉米来说并不陌生，在这之前，他有5万只口罩因为手续不全，在俄罗斯海关遭到同样的拒绝。
The situation was no stranger to Jimmy, who had previously had 50,000 face masks that had been rejected by Russian customs because of incomplete procedures.
大宗物资出关，要准备各种证书和文件。
Large quantities of goods out of customs, to prepare various certificates and documents.
正规发票、许可文件、计税资料等等，需要很长的周期。
Formal invoices, licensing documents, tax information, etc., require a long period of time.
俄罗斯提供给救援物资的绿色通道可以免除这些手续，但也需要提供国内省一级的受捐证明，吉米没有。
Russia's green passage for relief supplies could dispense with these formalities, but it would also require a domestic provincial donation certificate, which Jimmy did not.
只是，罚款的交易地点在机场里面的厕所，吉米因此断定，这是俄罗斯部分警察的私人行为，「不合法。
Only, the place of the fine was in the toilet inside the airport, and Jimmy therefore concluded that it was a private act of the Russian part of the police, "illegal."
」不过即便放到国内，那也的确不算是一批「合规」的物资。
"But even at home, it's not exactly a" compliant "batch.
型号上，只是普通的医用一次性口罩，无法帮助医生直面疑似病人，也不在武汉现阶段大部分定点医院的求助物资清单之内，不属于一级物资。
Model, just ordinary medical disposable masks, can not help doctors face the suspect patients, nor in Wuhan at the current stage of most of the hospital's list of help materials, do not belong to class 1 materials.
手续上，它也缺少可以顺利通关的保障——一纸省级红十字会开具的，盖着公章的接收函。
Formally, it also lacks the guarantee of smooth customs clearance - a letter of acceptance issued by the provincial Red Cross, stamped with an official seal.
即便是不合规的物资，在前线都是一件难求。
Even non-compliant materials are difficult to obtain on the front lines.
武汉一家民营医院的医生李平，春节之后一口气加了十几个志愿者群，每天在里面填写报备信息，反复更新物资需求，「怕只发一遍，人家看漏了。
Wuhan, a private hospital doctor, after the Spring Festival add a dozen volunteers in a row, fill in the information, repeatedly updated material needs, "afraid of only once, people missed.
」他所在的医院因为没有防护物资，停业了十几天，直到2月11日才重新开门。
His hospital, which had been closed for several days for lack of protective equipment, did not reopen until 11 February.
医生穿着企业捐赠的工业防护服，步子迈大了，裤裆的位置会裂开，「再薄就可以做宣纸了。
The doctor wears the industrial protective clothing that the enterprise donates, the step is big, crotch position can crack, "thin again can make rice paper."
」因为没有脚套，同事把垃圾袋绑在脚上，路走多了，也会松开。
"Since there were no holsters, my co-workers tied the bags to their feet and walked more often.
但最缺的还是口罩，停业那天，医院里一个N95都没有了。
But the most missing was a mask, and on the day of the shutdown, none of the N95 was in the hospital.
借着医生身份的便利，李平在小区封闭后仍然可以出入，他索性报名做了运输物资的志愿者。
With the convenience of his doctor's identity, Li Ping was able to enter and leave the area after the closure of the area, so he simply signed up as a volunteer.
帮其他医院送防护物资的同时，也为自家医院的需求吆喝，「不符合医用标准的，大医院不收，我们也需要。
While helping other hospitals deliver protective equipment, they yell for their own hospital needs. "If they don't meet medical standards, the big hospitals don't charge, so do we."
」找到合规的口罩并不容易。
Finding the right mask is not easy.
俄罗斯医用口罩的标准不同于欧标和美标，一些有认证和授权的正规医疗物资厂家，也无法提供符合中国认证标准的口罩。
Standards for Russian medical masks differ from European and US standards, and some licensed and licensed manufacturers of medical supplies are unable to provide masks that meet Chinese certification standards.
从1月24日得知武汉物资不足的消息开始，吉米所在的俄罗斯华人圈子就组建了筹集物资的微信群。
Since learning of the lack of supplies in Wuhan on January 24, Jimmy's Russian community has formed a collection of micro-groups to raise supplies.
当天晚上，群成员从十几人迅速增加到一百多人，直到后来接近三百人。
In the evening, the group grew rapidly from a dozen to more than a hundred, and then approached three hundred.
一部分人负责找货，一部分人确定标准。
Some are responsible for finding the goods, while others set the standard.
他们一一询问网上搜得到的医药厂家联系方式，拿到物资样品表，翻译给国内的医生，确定可以使用后，把链接公布到群里供志愿者们认购。
They all asked for the contact information of the pharmaceutical manufacturers found on the Internet, got the material sample form, translated it to the domestic doctors, determined that it could be used, and posted the link in the group for volunteers to subscribe to.
医生在微信群发布需求，指导采购。
Doctors in the micro-group to publish the demand, guide procurement.
图源受访者采购近乎于「抢」。
Purchases by source respondents were close to "grabbing."
从初三到初七，几乎所有发出来的链接都会被瞬间买光。
From the third to the seventh day of junior high, almost all the links sent out will be bought out in an instant.
捐款一些来自企业，也有的捐款人是当地华人白领和没有收入的留学生。
Some of the donations came from businesses, while others came from local Chinese white-collar workers and foreign students with no income.
甚至有部分来自国内，一位留学生的母亲试着给吉米微信转账，因为儿子就在圣彼得堡读书，「想替他出一份力。
And even partly at home, the mother of an international student tried to wire a letter to Jimmy because her son was in St. Petersburg, "trying to help him."
」采购的速度追不上飞涨的价格。
The speed of procurement cannot catch up with the soaring prices.
一批在1月27号采购的符合国内N95标准口罩，约定的发货日期推迟了两次，一周后吉米接到厂商客户经理的电话，「最低价109卢布（每只）给你。
A consignment of N95-compliant masks purchased on January 27th was postponed twice, and a week later Jimmy received a call from the manufacturer's account manager, "Minimum price 109 roubles (each)."
」接近之前售价的两倍。
"Nearly double the previous price.
吉米发了火。
Jimmy got angry.
这是他公司长期合作的供货商，他找到熟悉的大客户经理理论，并准备起草律师函，对方才在多方协调下把价格定在了90卢布，上涨了50％。
This was his company's long-time partner. He found the familiar theory of big account managers and was preparing to draft a lawyer's letter before the other party, under multilateral coordination, set the price at 90 roubles, a 50% increase.
着急募集物资的吉米最终接受了这个价格，收购了6000只N95标准口罩。
Jimmy, who was in a hurry to collect supplies, eventually accepted the price and bought 6,000 N95 standard masks.
因为符合医用标准，这些口罩最终顺利捐赠给湖北省慈善总会。
The masks were eventually donated to the Hubei Philanthropy Association because they met medical standards.
曾经被拦在机场门外的5万只口罩也经历了平生最大规模的提价。
The 50,000 face masks that were once barred from the airport have also experienced the biggest price increases of their lives.
1月27日，吉米在网上订购的时候，一次性医用口罩N50的售价还是1.25卢布一个，合人民币不到一毛五分。
When Jimmy placed an order online on January 27, the disposable medical mask, the N50, was still priced at 1.25 roubles, or less than 15 cents.
2月5日，同类口罩的价格已经到了20卢布，「物价哄抬了十几倍。
On February 5, the price of such masks was 20 roubles. "Prices have been inflated a dozen times."
」只是这5万只口罩没有那么好的运气。
"Only the 50,000 face masks weren't that lucky.
警察要的罚款是口罩本身价格的三倍还多，最终它们被原路拉回临时仓库。
Police fined more than three times the price of the masks themselves and were eventually dragged back to the makeshift warehouse.
那天晚上，莫斯科的气温是零下八度，吉米记得很清楚，下着雪。
It was an octave below zero in Moscow that night, and Jimmy well remembered that it was snowing.
2大洋彼岸，温哥华的物资几乎是在同一时间紧俏了起来。
On the other side of the ocean, Vancouver was in a rush almost at the same time.
年三十的下午，广州第二人民医院耳鼻头颈外科医生彭宏得到前方的消息，口罩和护目镜严重不足。
Thirty-year-old afternoon, Guangzhou Second People's Hospital ear, nose, neck surgeon Peng Hong in front of the news, masks and goggles are seriously inadequate.
她向温哥华的志愿者组织发出了求救，本来是趁休假到温哥华看望母亲的，可她改签了最早回国的机票，「要回战友身边去。
She called for help from a volunteer organization in Vancouver, which was on vacation to visit her mother, but she signed the earliest ticket home. "Go back to her comrades-in-arms.
」做物流的阿康看到，马上在朋友圈里号召伙伴们捐出自己家里有的存货，想让她作为随身行李带回去用。
"Akang, who does logistics, immediately calls on his friends to donate what they have in their homes and wants her to take it back as carry-on baggage.
整个年三十，阿康都是在办公室里度过的，不断有人开车从周边的城市过来送物资，最小的一笔，是一位华人网友在所在城市买到的5个护目镜，还是工业用的。
All through his thirties, Akang spent his time in the office, constantly being driven by cars from surrounding cities, the smallest of which was the five goggles that a Chinese netizen had bought in his city, and which were for industrial use.
大年初一的晚上八点，志愿者们把这些物资分箱打包，装了整整5箱，把物资送到彭宏医生家里，为了减少感染，彭宏已经剪掉了长发。
At 8 p.m. on New Year's Day, the volunteers packed the boxes and filled five cases to take the supplies to Dr. Peng Hong's home, who had cut his long hair to reduce the infection.
她妈妈因为担心女儿，哭肿了眼睛。
Her mother's eyes swelled with fear of her daughter.
看到这5箱物资，这个女医生也哭了。
Seeing the five boxes of supplies, the woman doctor cried, too.
到了机场，航司为她额外增加了两人份的行李额度，这批物资跟她回到了医院。
When she arrived at the airport, the flight department added two extra pieces of luggage to her. The cargo returned to the hospital with her.
阿康的朋友圈还在不断出现新的求救信息。
AKang's circle of friends continues to come up with new calls for help.
1月26日开始，武汉一线的协和医院更新了第二版物资清单，配文戳痛了她的心。
On January 26, Wuhan Tiehe Hospital updated the second edition of the material list, with the text stab pain in her heart.
「不是告急，是没有了！」温哥华志愿者捐赠的部分口罩图源受访者群成员继续采购护目镜和防护物资，一边在网上下订单，一边零星买。
"No, no!" Some of the mask source group members donated by Vancouver volunteers continued to purchase goggles and protective equipment, placing orders online and buying sporadically.
这里50个，那里100个。
50 here, 100 there.
一个在上海做医生的志愿者，作为采购标准顾问，实时指导。
A volunteer working as a doctor in Shanghai, as a procurement standards consultant, real-time guidance.
程序员、媒体工作者、医生、老师、企业白领……几天之内，各行各业的志愿者凑成的物资采购小组从什么是防护面屏都不知道，变成了熟记护目镜和防护面屏标准的老手。
Programmers, media workers, doctors, teachers, corporate white-collar workers... Within days, a team of volunteers from all walks of life, unaware of what the screen was, became adept at memorizing goggles and screen standards.
与此同时，他们在大温哥华地区各个群里吆喝找「人肉」运送，请人帮忙带回国内，「有一箱算一箱，送到最急的地方去。
At the same time, they yelled in groups across the Greater Vancouver area for "human flesh" delivery, asking someone to help bring it home. "There are boxes of it, to be delivered to the most urgent places.
」情况每天都在变。
"Things are changing every day.
2月2日，首都航空和四川航空取消了温哥华回国内城市的部分航班。
On February 2, Capital Airlines and Sichuan Airlines cancelled some of Vancouver's flights back to domestic cities.
阿康知道后，坐在办公室里「傻掉了」。
When Akon learned this, he sat in the office "goofy."
手上还有一批各处送来的物资，如果都停航了怎么办？下午三点，她查到晚上12点半有东航MU598从温哥华回上海的航班，在朋友圈找到了两个愿意带货的人。
What if she stopped sailing? At 3 p. m., she found two people in a circle of friends who were willing to take goods on a flight from Vancouver to Shanghai on Eastern Airlines flight No.
紧接着，她经历了「永生难忘的7个小时」。
Then she went through seven hours of unforgettable experience.
十几个志愿者开车赶到她的办公室和她一起打包，其中有些人从未谋面。
A dozen volunteers drove to her office to pack with her, some of whom had never met.
打包到一半，她才发现自己连足够的胶带都没有，只能跑出门现买。
Halfway through the package, she found she didn't have enough duct tape and had to run out and buy.
晚上10点，一群人带上所有箱子，这并非两位志愿者能「人肉」的量，他们还是决定去机场安检区碰碰运气。
At 10 p. m., a group of people took all the boxes with them. Not that the two volunteers could "human flesh," but they decided to try their luck in the airport security area.
在值机柜台，他们找到了早就等在那里的两位志愿者。
At the check-in counter, they found two volunteers who had been waiting there long ago.
下一个东方面孔是准备回上海的中年男人，不用多做解释，他看见箱子就马上明白了，「我知道了，给我箱子就好了。
The next face of the East was the middle-aged man who was going back to Shanghai. Without much explanation, he saw the box and immediately understood it.
」接着是答应帮忙的一家三口，又解决了三个箱子。
"Then the family of three who promised to help solved three more cases.
半个小时里，阿康和临时召集来的伙伴把7箱物资先后送上了传送带。
In half an hour, Akon and his impromptu companions delivered seven boxes of supplies to the conveyor belt.
在上海浦东机场，志愿者在那里等着他们，准备把物资运到湖北，再接力送去联系好的医院。
At Shanghai's Pudong airport, volunteers waited for them to transport supplies to Hubei, where they were sent to contact a good hospital.
「我们在这之前是陌生人，很多人从来没见过面。
"We were strangers before, and a lot of people had never met before.
」所有箱子外面的落款都是同一个：温哥华华人。
"All boxes bear the same sign: the Vancouver Chinese.
阿康觉得，箱子上写着的「武汉加油」说明了一切。
Akang felt that the words "Wuhan refueling" on the box explained everything.
美国志愿者打包物资 图源受访者3在这场物资接力中，王军和他的本地志愿者队伍扮演着最后一棒的角色。
Interviewee 3 Wang Jun and his local volunteer corps played a final role in the relay.
他们联系医院开具通行证和接收函，寻找志愿者，把运达武汉的货物派发到指定的医院。
They contacted the hospital to issue passes and receive letters, find volunteers, and distribute goods arriving in Wuhan to designated hospitals.
王军是湖北人，今年回武汉过年，封城之后，他开始着手对接捐助方和需要资源的医院。
Wang Jun, a native of Hubei Province, returned to Wuhan for the Spring Festival this year. After the closure of the city, he began docking donors and hospitals that needed resources.
大年初四之后，他组建了一支临时车队，取名零零一救援队。
Four years after the beginning of the year, he formed a temporary convoy, named a rescue team.
全市禁行之后，机场附近的一公里成了最难解决的问题之一。
After the citywide ban, one kilometer near the airport became one of the most difficult problems to solve.
在武汉市内和各个郊区，志愿者可以申请到专门的通行证，但如果要出入机场，必须要机场专用通行证，一日一办。
Volunteers can apply for special passes in Wuhan city and various suburbs, but they must obtain a special airport pass once a day to get in and out of the airport.
这类通行证只能由定点医院向指挥部提交申请，写明接物资的具体位置，接收医院地址、接收人的身份和联系方式，本人到指挥部领取盖章原件。
Such laissez-passer may only be submitted by the designated hospital to the command headquarters, indicating the exact location of the receiving material, the address of the receiving institution and the identity and contact details of the recipient.
公益车队分为两批，一批私家轿车居多，专门接送医护人员上下班，之前感染去世的志愿者何辉就在这批队伍里。
There were two groups of pro bono caravans, most of which were private cars, to transport medical workers to and from work. He Hui, a volunteer who had previously contracted the disease, was in the group.
另一批专门接送医疗物资，SUV、商务车和面包车居多，但这一类车辆的运力也有限，遇到大宗物资，显得非常吃力。
Another group of specialized medical supplies, such as SUVs, commercial vehicles and vans, also has limited capacity and is struggling with large quantities of supplies.
2月初，日本海外华人筹集了一批重达4吨的物资。
In early February, Japanese overseas Chinese raised up to four tons of supplies.
王军车队里的秦雨2日接到了这个任务。
Qin Ru of Wang army caravan received this assignment on the 2nd.
定向医院的名单发过来时，她正在九州通仓库拉物资，只大略扫了一眼，名单里有一家民营医院，她有印象。
When the list of targeted hospitals arrived, she was pulling supplies from the Kyushu warehouse. She had only a cursory glance at a private hospital on the list and was impressed.
正巧李平打电话给她，他所在的医院和那家民营医院名字很像。
Li Ping just happened to call her, his hospital and the name of the private hospital very similar.
秦雨也没多想，赶紧告诉他，「有一批你们的物资，能不能帮我搞几台货车？」听说有物资，李平迅速联系了一辆4.2米长的厢式货车，办好了5号进出机场的通行证。
Qin Ru did not think much, quickly told him, "there is a batch of your supplies, can you help me to get a few trucks?" Heard of supplies, Li Ping quickly contacted a 4.2-metre van and arranged a pass to get in and out of the airport.
但到了4号晚上，秦雨发现两件事：一是飞机7号才来，二是定向捐赠的名单里没有李平的医院，她搞错了。
But on the night of the 4th, Qin Yu found two things: one was the arrival of the plane on the 7th, and the other was that Li Ping's hospital was not on the list of targeted donations.
海外捐助的物资往往数额庞大，定向捐赠更是占了大多数，志愿者一瞬间接收的信息、需要协调的事情很多。
Overseas donations are often large in amount, and targeted donations account for most of them. Volunteers receive a great deal of information and coordination in an instant.
秦雨跑进所有志愿者群，请求大家从这批物资里匀出一批哪怕一点点给李平，但群里回复，这是定向捐赠的物资，坚决不能给。
Qin Ru ran into all the volunteer groups, asking you to set aside a batch of these materials even a little bit for Li Ping, but the group replied that this is a targeted donation of materials, resolutely not to give.
一批采购自境外的医用口罩抵达国内机场。
A consignment of medical masks procured from outside the country arrived at the domestic airport.
图源海关发布新浪微博秦雨还是硬着头皮打了李平的电话。
Source Customs issued Sina Weibo Qinyu or bravely hit Li Ping's phone.
听到这两个坏消息，李平确实没法掩饰生气和失望，但还是答应，一定把7号的通行证办下来，帮助武汉的其他医院运送物资。
After hearing the bad news, Li Ping could not hide his anger and disappointment, but he promised to bring down the Pass No. 7 to help other hospitals in Wuhan.
7号晚上不到8点，他们就赶到了机场仓库，等到晚上11点，货才运到。
They arrived at the airport warehouse less than 8 p. m. on the 7th and waited until 11 p. m. before the goods arrived.
那天天很冷，装完车回到市区，已经是凌晨两点多钟。
It was cold, and it was past two o'clock in the morning when the car returned to the city.
没有休息几个小时，李平又爬起来，载着一部分物资开到几家定点医院。
Without rest for a few hours, Li Ping got up again and drove some supplies to the designated hospitals.
为了减少医院里医生出门造成感染的可能性，他把车子直接停在感染科楼下，再帮忙把物资搬到科室门口。
To reduce the chance of an infection in the hospital, he parked his car directly below the infection section and helped move supplies to the front door.
接收函中的医生签字确认后，他再拍照反馈给捐赠方。
The doctor in the acceptance letter signs the confirmation and then takes the photograph and gives it back to the donor.
搬运货物的时候，他身边经过了一个路人，看到箱子上满满的日文，还有那句「风月同天」。
As he was carrying the cargo, he passed by a passer-by, and saw the box full of Japanese, and the phrase "the same day."
秦雨发动了自己认识的所有组织和机构，想为李平的医院募集一点物资。
Qin Yu launched all the organizations and organizations he knew and wanted to collect some materials for Li Ping's hospital.
「别的大医院不要的，嫌差的，都可以。
"Other big hospitals do not want, do not feel bad, can be.
」她的邻居看到了她的朋友圈，把美国朋友寄来的40个N95口罩送给了她。
"Her neighbor saw her friend's circle and gave her 40 N95 masks, which she had received from an American friend.
秦雨立刻决定，把这40个口罩，加上之前王军为志愿者配备的100个N95，一起送给李平。
Qin immediately decided to send the 40 masks to Li Ping, along with 100 N95 previously provided by the Wangjun for volunteers.
在这之后，她又找来了一批护目镜和防护服。
After that, she found another pair of goggles and protective clothing.
4天之内，李平的医院开门营业，当天就接诊了4个感染者。
Within four days, Li Ping's hospital opened for business, that day received four patients.
他在朋友圈里发了一条状态，解释想开门营业不是为了赚钱，「我的一切都在武汉。
He made a state in his friends' circle and explained that he didn't want to open his doors to make money.
我的家人、我的朋友、我所有的记忆。
My family, my friends, all my memories.
与其躲避，不如全力进攻，这是守护他们唯一的办法。
It is the only way to guard them, rather than to avoid them.
」几天之后，李平又告诉她，「我们已经接到16个病人了。
"A few days later, Li Ping told her again," We have received 16 patients.
」「哪怕抢救一个病人，这个家庭就保住了。
"" Even if a patient is saved, the family is saved.
」秦雨觉得值得，在7号的那批物资里，他们最终匀出1000片一次性医用口罩，送给了李平。
Qin Yu thought it was worth it. In the supplies on the 7th, they finally released 1000 disposable medical masks and gave them to Li Ping.
这是这家医院十几天来，收到的数量最大的一批防护物资。
This is the largest consignment of protective equipment the hospital has received in more than a decade.
除了本职工作，李平还在忙着接送最新抵达武汉的口罩。
In addition to his job, Li Ping is still busy carrying the latest surgical mask to Wuhan.
他已经忘了不戴口罩走在阳光下的感觉，「只想等到春暖花开，疫情退去，我要摘了口罩，好好吸一口气。
He had forgotten how it felt to walk in the sun without a mask. "I just wanted to wait until the spring blooms and the epidemic recedes.
」武汉市民自费成立爱心车队运输抗疫物资。
Wuhan established a love convoy to transport anti-epidemic materials at his own expense.
图源梨视频4吉米停在俄罗斯海关的那批口罩，本来是要寄给此前民间救援物资暂时无法触达的地区医院。
The mask Jimmy had parked at Russian customs was supposed to be sent to a regional hospital that had previously been inaccessible to civilian aid supplies.
她发现，即便是这样的普通医用口罩，莫斯科也买不着货了。
Even such common medical masks, she found, would not be available in Moscow.
就算她们筹到更多资金，口罩也越来越难买到。
Even as they raise more money, masks become more and more difficult to buy.
一开始，大家都先刷自己的卡救急，再开发票报销，但是额度很快不够垫付了。
At the beginning, everyone first brush their own card emergency, and then invoice reimbursement, but the amount of money soon enough to advance.
可转为先确定捐赠资金意向再拿货之后，出现了新的问题，往往国内刚说「要」，国外的货已经被人买走。
Can be converted to confirm the intention to donate funds before the goods, there are new problems, often just said "yes" at home, foreign goods have been bought.
志愿者小安找到了价值几十万元的货源，必须几个小时之内付款到土耳其的厂方的银行卡号上。
Volunteer Ann found hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of goods, must pay within a few hours to the Turkish factory's bank card number.
但出资方没有香港账户，无法直接转外币，加上时差原因，最终还是小安先筹钱垫付。
However, the funders do not have Hong Kong accounts, can not directly transfer foreign currency, plus the reasons for the time difference, eventually Ang raised money to advance.
如果交易金额超过10万美金，就只能通过外贸公司对公转账。
If the amount of the transaction exceeds US $100,000, the transfer can only be made through a foreign trade company.
有一些大的慈善基金会有能力支付，但内部还有较为复杂的审批流程，走得稍微慢一点，货源马上就没了。
There are some big philanthropic foundations that can afford to pay, but there is also a more complex internal approval process, a little slower, the supply will soon be gone.
后来，信任小安的朋友直接交出了决定权，「10万加币以内的物资，不要问，直接买。
Later, the friends who trusted Ann handed over the decision directly, "100,000 Canadian dollars within the material, do not ask, buy directly.
」「黑市都有口罩了。
"There are masks on the black market.
」小安发现，自从口罩成为硬通货，出现了一些抢囤口罩的人。
"Xiao An found that since the mask became hard currency, some people had been stealing it, according to the source.
她在土耳其黑市找到的口罩，开始不到10元人民币一个，现在已经飞涨到6.5美金。
The mask she found on the black market in Turkey, which started at less than Rmb10, has skyrocketed to $6.50.
不包物流，现款现货。
No logistics, cash in stock.
而吉米商定的一批防护服，本来已经从50块讲到40块人民币一件，但第二天付款的时候，对方说，100块一件，你们不要马上有人收走。
Jimmy had agreed on a shipment of protective clothing from 50 yuan to 40 yuan a piece, but the next day when the payment, the other side said, 100 yuan, you do not immediately someone to take away.
即便被毁约成了家常便饭，价格飞涨仍然是最容易解决的问题。
Even if the contract is broken as a matter of routine, soaring prices are still the easiest problem to solve.
「钱不是问题。
"Money is not the problem.
」美国华人基金会NACCF理事Sharon从2月6日就开始焦虑，「问题是，没有口罩了。
"The problem is, there are no masks," said Sharon, director of NACCF for the American Chinese Foundation, who has been worried since February 6.
」她试遍了所有能够找得到的「门路」。
"She tried everything she could find.
发动高校学生，在网上搜索货源；联合康涅狄格州对冲基金联盟和格林尼治医院基金会在美东地区各大医疗机构募集医疗物资；飞到柬埔寨、印度和南美，联系海外一切正在生产口罩的厂商。
Engage college students to search the Internet for supplies; collect medical supplies from major medical organizations in the Eastern United States, in conjunction with the Connecticut Hedge Fund Alliance and the Greenwich Hospital Foundation; fly to Cambodia, India and South America to reach out to all manufacturers of masks abroad.
反馈回来的消息并不乐观，到处都被采购一空。
The feedback was not encouraging, and everywhere it was sold out.
2月9日，加拿大的阿康和伙伴们筹集到大温哥华地区相对大宗的一批物资，集中走货运。
On February 9, Akan of Canada and his partners raised a relatively large shipment of goods from the Greater Vancouver area, concentrating on shipping.
为了保证物资顺利抵达，每一个纸箱都配上了对应医院的详细物资接收函。
In order to ensure the smooth arrival of the goods, each carton is accompanied by a detailed receipt letter from the corresponding hospital.
为了给一线志愿者节省时间和精力，每件物资外面都贴好了捐赠方和收件方的详细信息，并把国内运送的顺丰单号条形码贴上去。
In order to save time and effort for front-line volunteers, detailed donor and recipient information is posted on each item and bar codes for the in-country shipments are posted.
志愿者们花了4个小时，把几百箱大小各异的物资重新打包，在筹集的善款到账之前，不少人刷爆了自己的信用卡。
Volunteers spent four hours repacking hundreds of boxes of assorted materials, and before the proceeds arrived, many blew up their credit cards.
温哥华志愿者在打包物资。
Vancouver volunteers are packing.
图源受访者第二天，这124箱物资飞抵青岛。
The respondents arrived in Qingdao the next day with 124 boxes of supplies.
这些护目镜和面罩回国之后，将作为定向捐赠，通过物流公司开辟的绿色通道，直接寄到吉林、河南、河北、湖南、湖北、广州、珠海、上海、江苏、安徽、浙江和北京的40多家医院中。
Upon return, the goggles and face masks will be donated directly to over 40 hospitals in Jilin, Henan, Hebei, Hunan, Hubei, Guangzhou, Zhuhai, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Anhui, Zhejiang and Beijing as targeted donations through green channels opened by logistics companies.
阿康和伙伴们准备，在这批物资之后，继续搜集可用的物资信息，提供给国内有需要的爱心企业。
Akon and his partners are ready to continue to gather information about the materials available to the needy and caring businesses in the country after the shipment.
合规的一级医用物资越来越少，一部分不甘心的志愿者展开了近乎地毯式排查的扫货，发现一家只有30个护目镜的连锁店，就把当地所有门店的清单拉出来，让群内的志愿者就近找货。
There were fewer and fewer first-class medical supplies, and some reluctant volunteers carried out a carpet sweep and found a chain of 30 goggles. They pulled out a list of all the local stores and asked the volunteers in the group to find them close by.
与此同时，他们对各种防护物资的标准也一再降低，「早知道上星期下单的10900件400（非医用防护服型号）应该拿下，再配上涂塑料层的罩衣应该也能抵挡一下。
At the same time, standards for all kinds of protective equipment have been lowered time and time again. "It is known that the 10,900 pieces of protective clothing (non-medical protective clothing) ordered last week should be removed and the overalls with plastic coating should also be able to withstand them."
」2月开始，各国停航的消息陆续传来，温哥华能够找到舱位的航班越来越少。
Beginning in February, word began to circulate of international departures, and Vancouver was experiencing a decline in the number of flights for which accommodation was available.
吉米也得到其他志愿者从俄罗斯各机场发出的坏消息，只要是物资行李超额，会在进入机场前被直接拦下，「凡是装物资的纸箱子」就是认缴罚款也不能进绿色通道了。
Jimmy also received bad news from other volunteers at Russian airports that any excess baggage would be stopped directly before entering the airport. "Paper boxes containing supplies" would be a pledge not to enter the Green Channel.
为把这些「不合规」的物资发回国内，「人肉」带回的工作还在继续。
In order to send these "non-conforming" materials back to China, the work of returning "human flesh" continues.
发到国内城市，要请志愿者开车去接，拉到当地邮局，再寄到指定医院。
Send to domestic cities, to ask volunteers to pick up the car, pull to the local post office, and then send to the designated hospital.
因为时间紧急，资料准备不足，只有红十字会开具接收函后所能使用的通道才是免费的，其他通道（包含慈善总会）都需要收费，有一位上海志愿者，为了物资能够送达指定的医院，自掏4500元支付了26个箱子的运费。
Due to the urgency of the time and the lack of preparation of the information, only the passageway available to ICRC for receiving letters is free, other channels (including the General Association of Charity) are free of charge, and a Shanghai volunteer paid for 26 boxes at a cost of 4,500 yuan for supplies reaching designated hospitals.
有的姑娘从多伦多搭飞机专门跑到温哥华，就为了多带一箱物资。
Some of the girls flew from Toronto to Vancouver to bring an extra crate of supplies.
也有人什么随身物品都不带，把所有的重量额度都留给物资。
There are also people who carry nothing with them, leaving all the weight allowance for supplies.
他们都不愿意提自己的名字，志愿者给这些人起了一个统一的昵称，叫「爱心肉肉」。
They were reluctant to mention their names, and the volunteers gave them a common nickname, "love meat."
情人节这天，从温哥华时间的凌晨到中午，三个航班再次载着42箱防护物资回到国内，由「爱心肉肉」们带回，再由接机志愿者寄往湖北黄冈。
On Valentine's Day, from dawn to noon Vancouver time, three flights carrying 42 boxes of protective equipment were brought back to the country by "Carnival meat" and sent to Huanggang, Huanggang, Hubei Province.
这些物资中，很多并不能达到最高级的医用标准，会标注着「非医用级别防护服」。
Many of these items do not meet the highest medical standards and are labelled "non-medical protective clothing."
但是前线传来确定的消息，他们需要。
But from the front line came certain information that they needed.
也是在同一天，吉米终于等到了合适的舱位，把5万只口罩和其他物资一起发回了国内，他期盼这些不能上一线的口罩，可以给国内还在裸奔的社区工作者和疑似病患提供最基础的防护。
On the same day, Jimmy finally got the proper shipping space to return 50,000 masks and other supplies to the country, hoping they would provide the most basic protection for community workers and suspected patients who were nude at home.
一周以来，因为迟迟没有新的物流信息，5万只口罩的捐赠者每天都会关注口罩的动态，捐赠者一度担心，口罩是不是被素不相识的吉米用来售卖了。
For a week, donors of 50,000 masks were watching the movement of the masks on a daily basis because of delays in obtaining new logistics information. Donors were worried about whether the masks were being used by unknown Jimmy to sell them.
两天前，他打电话给吉米，要求退还那批口罩，自己想办法寄给北京的朋友。
Two days ago, he called Jimmy and asked for the mask to be returned and tried to send it to friends in Beijing by himself.
吉米告诉他，那批口罩已经在准备清关了。
Jimmy told him that the masks were ready for customs clearance.
2月16日，5万只口罩降落北京。
On February 16, 50,000 face masks landed in Beijing.
机场海关快速验放防疫物资。
Airport Customs fast-track anti-epidemic materials.
图源海关发布新浪微博（应采访对象要求，吉米、李平、阿康为化名。
Source Customs released Sina Weibo (at the request of the interviewee, Jimmy, Li Ping, Akang for alias.
）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
) Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在国外抢口罩。
I'm robbing masks abroad.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我在国外抢口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "阿康觉得，箱子上写着的「武汉加油」说明了一切。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Akon feels that the words "Wuhan refueling" on the box speak for themselves.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
