他们制造了你的复工通行证。
They made your re-entry pass.
桃子。
Peaches.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
「健康码」可能是支付宝历史上开发时间最短、上线最快的超级项目。
The "health code" is probably the shortest development and fastest online superproject in Alipay's history.
从支持杭州余杭区开发团队推出全国首个「健康码」到浙江省版、四川省版、海南省版、重庆版……只用了七八天。
From supporting the Hangzhou Yuhang District Development Team to launch the country's first "health code" to Zhejiang, Sichuan, Hainan, Chongqing... only took seven or eight days.
这个涉及数亿亟待复工的中国人的健康码，背后是一群戴着口罩的程序员、产品经理、运营……他们像迎战「双11」一样住进了杭州作战室，还有更多散布各地的人在田间地头、隔离小区里云加班，还有人为了在停电时正常开电话会议，自己发电。
Behind the health code for the hundreds of millions of Chinese who need to get back to work are a bunch of masked programmers, product managers, and operations... They are living in Hangzhou's war room like the Double-Eleven, with more scattered people working overtime in fields and quarantined neighborhoods, and generating their own electricity for regular teleconferences in case of power outages.
文｜桃子最早一批复工的人这些天来，杭州著名的西溪路一片寂静。
The first batch of workers has gone back to work. The famous Xi Xi Lu in Hangzhou has been quiet these days.
这里不仅是支付宝总部所在地，还遍布大大小小创业公司，被戏称为「东半球加班中心」。
This is not only paid treasure headquarters location, but also scattered throughout the large and small startups, jokingly known as the "Eastern Hemisphere overtime center."
往日的「加班中心」昼夜灯火通明，如今漆黑一片，没有人影。
The former Overwork Centre, brightly lit day and night, is now dark and empty.
但城壁和他的同事们是个例外。
But the wall and his colleagues are an exception.
他们摸进公司对面的创投中心，检查入园证明、量体温、领口罩、酒精消毒……几十名程序员一声不吭穿越重重关卡，进入位于二楼的支付宝非常时期临时作战室。
They went to the VCs opposite the company and checked entry certificates, temperature measurements, masks, and alcohol disinfection... Dozens of programmers were silent as they entered the second floor of PayPal's makeshift war room.
口罩背后的人并不彼此认识。
The people behind the mask don't know each other.
他们来自支付宝不同部门，技术、产品、运营、法务、客服……共同的任务是在最短时间里，让健康码在浙江全省上线。
They come from different departments of Alipay, technology, products, operations, legal services, customer service... the common task is to make the health code in Zhejiang province in the shortest possible time.
城壁是支付宝资深技术专家，健康码项目技术一号位，这位工龄15年的老阿里，经历过无数次紧张有序的重大技术迭代，但这次是头一回，「只能顾上下一分钟」。
The city wall is paid treasure senior technical expert, health code project technical number one position, this 15-year-old Ali, has experienced numerous intense and orderly major technical iterations, but this is the first time that "only the next minute can be taken care of."
疫情告急以来，雷神山和火神山星夜施工，各地医疗队火速集结，抗疫战局对时效的要求是空前的。
Since the outbreak of the emergency, Luoshen Mountain and the star night construction, medical teams around the rapid concentration of the Bureau of the battle against the epidemic is unprecedented requirements for the statute of limitations.
眼下全国即将迎来复工潮，各地返程人员形成了抗击疫情中新的风险。
Now the nation is about to return to work, people from all over the country formed a new risk in the fight against the epidemic.
为了实现安全高效复工，2月11日，杭州健康码上线当天，浙江要求全省推广健康码，而且要「立刻马上全省都上」。
In order to achieve a safe and efficient return to work, February 11, Hangzhou Health Code on the same day, Zhejiang Province to promote health code, and "immediately all over the province."
此前，最先推出的杭州余杭区健康码已经推行了几天，成功将传统的手写登记人员流动的方式换成了线上打卡，各方反响很好。
The city's first health code, known as Hangzhou Yuhang District, has been in operation for several days, replacing the traditional handwritten way of registering people with online cards, with a good response from all sides.
城壁本想让大家休息几天，不料随即接到上线浙江码的任务，并且是要到线下集中攻坚。
The city wall originally wanted to let everybody rest a few days, unexpectedly received the task of Zhejiang code immediately on line, and is to concentrate on the attack below the line.
但非常时期，大多数人都在外地，回杭州还要先在家隔离14天，办法只有一个，发动在杭州呆满14天且身体健康的技术报名。
But during the hard times, most people stayed away from home and had to be kept in solitary confinement for 14 days before returning to Hangzhou.
凌晨两点，建群拉人报名，凌晨两点半，报名人数达几十个。
Two in the morning, Jianqunla registration, 2: 30 a.m., the number of applicants up to dozens.
进作战室后，城壁看到了范禹，一位技术出身的阿里合伙人。
After entering the battle room, the city wall saw Fan Yu, an Ali partner of technical origin.
范禹在作战室里坐了一夜，调人调资源。
Fan Yu sat overnight in the battle room, adjusting his resources.
越来越多来自阿里云、钉钉的隔壁兄弟加入进来，并肩作战。
More and more brothers from the next door, Ali-yun and nailed, joined in and fought side by side.
这支临时军团按照两班倒的方式昼夜值班，24小时无休。
The temporary corps operates round the clock on a two-shift basis.
杭州还在封小区，他们已经看过了凌晨4点的西溪路。
Hangzhou is still in a small area, they have seen 4 a.m. Xixi Road.
行军床上的程序员「作战室」按往年「双11」指挥中心的样子收拾了出来，走廊上摆满水果零食，靠墙是一溜摆好了牙刷、牙膏、洗发水、沐浴露的小脸盆，行军床也全部就位。
The programmer's "War Room" on the camp bed was arranged in the same manner as the "Double-Eleven" command center. The corridor was filled with fruit snacks and a row of tiny washbasins lined with toothbrushes, toothpaste, shampoo and body lotion. The camp beds were all in place.
不过，这次的「作战室」没有往常的人头攒动，上千平米的办公空间，只有寥寥几十人。
However, the "war room" is not as usual, thousands of square meters of office space, only a few dozen people.
工作时众人热火朝天，忙得像证券交易所；吃饭时每个人单独坐一张办公桌，面朝同一方向，埋头不语。
Everyone was as busy as a stock exchange at work; everyone sat at a desk alone, facing the same direction and keeping their heads shut.
既要效率，又得安全。
We should be both efficient and safe.
自从浙江推广健康码后，越来越多省市找上门来。
Since Zhejiang health code promotion, more and more provinces came to the door.
情人节晚上，大家正在紧张测试浙江省健康码，突然收到第二天上线四川版健康码的通知，同时还要开发全国版健康码系统……城壁每次都以为干完这票就完了，没想到从突击战变成了持久战。
On Valentine's Day night, people are testing Zhejiang Province health code, suddenly received the next day on the Sichuan version of the health code notice, but also to develop a national version of the health code system.
行政同学原本想增加几张行军床，但发现原本准备的床没怎么动过。
The administrative classmate originally wanted to add a few camp beds, but found that the original prepared bed had not been much moved.
一问才知道，为了赶时间，几乎所有人都是不眠不休，甚至有人连续干两天，然后回家洗洗睡一觉再来。
When asked, almost all of them stayed up in a hurry, even for two days, and then went home to get some sleep.
2月18日，杭州市委书记周江勇来作战室慰问大家，就是在这间堆满牙膏牙刷脸巾面盆的休息室里。
February 18, Hangzhou Municipal Party Secretary Zhou Jiangyong came to the war room to express condolences, is in this toothpaste toothbrush washbasin in the common room.
用得最多的是行政提前准备好的毛巾。
The most commonly used are towels prepared in advance by the administration.
撑不住了，用热水把毛巾打热，敷在眼睛上。
It won't last. Warm the towel with hot water and apply it to your eyes.
「抗疫情最需要有一个本地动态实时地图，健康、疑似、确诊，市民自己申报健康信息并实施更新，这靠纸做的路条是办不到的，得靠数字化办法。
"The fight against the epidemic requires a real-time, dynamic local map of health, suspicion and diagnosis, with citizens declaring their own health information and carrying out updates, which cannot be achieved by using paper-based methods.
」健康码项目经理，支付宝高级项目管理专家易治说，纸路条是一个个孤岛，且只能证明你此时此刻的状态，但健康码是动态的，依据政府制定的标准，用户在健康打卡申报信息后，将各自领取到一张码，这张码随着用户自己每天的状况提交，所处区域的变化、健康状况等因素，会发生相应的变化。
'Paper strips are isolated islands and can only prove where you are at the moment, 'says Yi Zhi, a health-code project manager and senior project manager at Alipay. But health codes are dynamic and, according to government standards, users receive a code that varies with the user's day-to-day situation.
比如按照杭州的规则，当地黄码用户在连续7天居家隔离并健康打卡，没有任何不适症状后，就会转变为绿码。
For example, according to Hangzhou's rules, local yellow-code users can switch to green after seven days of home isolation and healthy typing without any discomfort.
「这样的动态管理大大降低了政府的战疫成本」。
"This dynamic management has greatly reduced the cost of the epidemic to the government."
大量的协同需求、信息交流让「作战室」24小时充满电话会议，视频电话、钉钉电话从不间断，所有人的手机和电脑都时刻保持充电状态。
There was a lot of demand for coordination and information exchange. The "war room" was full of conference calls on a 24-hour basis. Video phones and nail phones were on the move. Everyone's cell phones and computers were recharged.
说话太多，口罩很容易被弄湿，大家不得不一边对着电脑、手机滔滔不绝，一边努力摁住摘下口罩的冲动。
Talk too much, the mask is easy to get wet, we have to face the computer, mobile phone, while trying to press the impulse to take off the mask.
大家电脑右上方显示的会议时间，大多是两小时以上，因为还有上百名无法返回公司的同事在各自家中云办公。
Most of the meeting time shown on the top right side of your computer is more than two hours because hundreds of colleagues who are unable to return to the company are working in their own homes.
各种电话会议里，时不时传来娃啼狗吠鸡鸣猪唤。
Every now and then, in conference calls, a barking dog barks.
对于民生政务组的同学来说，即便赢驷不说话，同事们也知道他在线——听筒里不断传来隔壁邻居家的狗叫声。
For the people's livelihood group, even if won Si Si Si, colleagues also know that he is online - the next door neighbor's dog barking.
20多天没能下楼，三条狗都快憋疯了。
After more than 20 days without going downstairs, all three dogs are going crazy.
赢驷是支付宝业务发展专家，自从1月20号和妻子一起回到武汉之后，他就窝在岳父母家没有出过门。
Win four is a pay slip business development expert. Since returning to Wuhan with his wife on January 20, he has stayed at his parents-in-law's house.
10个月大的孩子醒着时喜欢在客厅玩，他乖乖躲到阳台办公；孩子睡着时需要安静，他就被撵到距离卧室最远的厨房打电话。
The 10-month-old likes to play in the living room when awake and sleeps quietly on the balcony; he is chased into the kitchen furthest from the bedroom.
在争分夺秒的工作中途，他的手机闹钟会突然响起：各种app抢菜时间到了。
Halfway through the race, his cell phone alarm goes off: It's time for all sorts of pickups.
赢驷抢菜成功率不高，从大年初三开始，全家从一日三餐改为两餐。
Si Si Si success rate is not high, from the beginning of New Year, the family from three meals a day to two meals.
比这更让人紧张的是，他们居住的小区里有近百例疑似和确诊患者，距离最近的确诊病人，就是住在正对面的邻居。
Even more disturbing is the fact that there are nearly a hundred suspected and confirmed cases in their neighbourhood, the nearest confirmed patient being a neighbour living directly opposite.
2月17日中午，如火如荼的会议持续到赢驷被家里领导拔下耳机，摁上静音——「你也知道买菜不方便？家里只有两颗大白菜六颗小白菜了，还不想办法赶紧再抢一点！」这是迄今为止赢驷最幸运的一单，在盒马上抢到的。
Si Si was home leader pulled out the earphones and pressed the mute - "You also know that the purchase is inconvenient? There are only two cabbage cabbage six cabbage, do not want to hurry to grab a bit more!" This is the most fortunate Si Si by far in the box.
衣柜里的产品经理宝妍大年初四就开始切换入工作模式了。
Product manager Baoyan in the wardrobe began switching to work mode on Thursday.
她是支付宝资深产品专家，在回家路上看到，因为疫情的影响，各地高速收费站设立关卡，工作人员戴着口罩、护目镜、穿着防护服，逐车地登记流动人员的健康及迁移数据。
She was a senior product specialist at Alipay and saw on her way home that because of the epidemic, high-speed toll gates had been set up around the country and staff were wearing masks, goggles, protective clothing, car-by-vehicle registration of the health and movement of people.
被堵在返乡车流中的产品经理们将沿途见闻发到钉钉工作群里，开始讨论，有没有可能把登记工作变成在线填报，那样效率会高不少。
The product managers who are stuck in the traffic will go to the nailing group and start discussing the possibility of turning the registration process into online filings, which would be much more efficient.
大年初四，散落在天南海北的同事们开始远程在线合作，很快搭建出一个简单的模型：电子健康卡。
Around the beginning of the year, colleagues scattered all over the world began to collaborate remotely online, quickly building a simple model: an e-health card.
有了健康卡，就可以在支付宝上实现填报，不需要「人肉」线下登记。
With a health card, you can complete your application on PayPal without having to register online.
回老家远程协作，各有各的画风。
Home to remote collaboration, each painting style.
有人老家在西北山区，屋里没有信号，院里才有信号。
There was no signal in the house. It was only in the courtyard.
在冰霜寒风中，为了不当冰雕，每天起来都得先劈柴，再生火，烧旺了，才开机。
In the freezing cold wind, in order not to be improper ice carving, every day to get up wood, fire again, burning hot, just start.
有人乡下电力供应不稳，老屋忽然停电，电脑很快没电时，硬核爷爷向邻居借来了发电机。
Some people rural power supply instability, the old house suddenly blackout, computers quickly ran out of power, hard-core grandfather borrowed a neighbor's generator.
老人家十分骄傲：孙女商量起工作来，你们听都听不懂的。
The old man was very proud: your granddaughter could not understand when she began to talk about her work.
有人家里网络不稳定，举着电脑满屋转下来，发现衣柜里信号最好，于是毫不犹豫在衣柜里支了个电脑桌。
Someone with an unstable network, carrying a computer around the room, found the wardrobe signal the best, so did not hesitate to set up a computer desk in the closet.
大年初七，健康卡完成了产品设计Demo。
Year 7, the health card completed the product design Demo.
正月十七，全国陆续复工在即，初版健康卡产品完成。
January 17, the country resumed work in succession, the initial version of the health card products completed.
彼时，杭州健康码已经发放了几天，全国网友求借一用在网络上被花式玩成了梗。
At that time, Hangzhou health code has been issued for a few days, the national netizens asked for a loan to be used in the network was fancy play become a Terrier.
2月10日，在初版健康卡产品完成这天，宝妍接到了全员all in上线浙江省健康码的任务，她回复主管：产品同学已经做好准备。
On Feb. 10, on the day the initial version of the health card was completed, Baoyan received a call from all staff on Zhejiang Health Code. She replied, "Product students are ready."
于是就有了接下来的，2月16日凌晨3点，四川版上线；2月16日晚7点30分，浙江版上线；2月16日晚8点，全国码启动研发；2月18日上午10点，海南版上线；2月19日下午3点，重庆版上线；……没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
February 16, 7: 30 pm, Zhejiang version of the line-up, February 16 evening, 8: 00 p.m., the launch of the national code, February 18, 10: 00 a.m., Hainan version of the line, February 19, 3: 00 p.m., you have not seen enough?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们制造了你的复工通行证。
They made your re-entry pass.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们制造了你的复工通行证";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; They manufactured your resume pass;;
var msg_desc = "一个开发时间最短、上线最快的超级项目。
var msg _ desc = & quot; one of the shortest and fastest-running super projects ever developed.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
