新冠患者首个病理报告出炉：病理特征与SARS、MERS非常类似。
The first pathologic report of the new crown patient was presented. The pathologic features were very similar to SARS and MERS.
李贤焕。
Lee Sin-hwan.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
2 月 17 日，《柳叶刀 · 呼吸医学》（The Lancet Respiratory Medicine）在线发表了首份基于尸检样本的新冠肺炎病理学报告。
On February 17, The Lancet Respiratory Medicine published the first pathology report on new crown pneumonia based on autopsy samples online.
该论文通讯作者之一为中科院院士、解放军总医院第五医学中心感染性疾病诊疗与研究中心主任王福生教授。
One of the co-authors is Professor Wang Fusheng, Academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Director of Infectious Diseases Clinic and Research Center of the 5th Medical Center of PLA General Hospital.
在最新研究中，王福生团队通过在患者死后穿刺获取组织样本，分析了一名死于新冠病毒严重感染伴严重急性呼吸综合征患者的病理特征。
In a recent study, Wang Fusheng's team analyzed the pathologic features of a patient who died of a severe crown virus infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome by obtaining tissue samples after the patient's death.
研究团队在论文中写道：“COVID-19 病理特征与严重急性呼吸综合征（SARS）、中东呼吸综合征（MERS）的冠状病毒感染非常相似。
"The pathologic features of COVID-19 are very similar to those of the coronavirus infection of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)," the team wrote in the paper.
”值得注意的是，这项病理分析是通过对一位新冠肺炎死亡患者进行微创病理检查获得，而非完整尸检，这与 2 月 16 日在武汉金银潭医院开展的两例新冠肺炎死亡患者的遗体解剖病理诊断有所不同。
It is noteworthy that the pathologic analysis was based on a minimally invasive pathologic examination of a patient who died of Newcrown Pneumonia, as opposed to a complete autopsy, which differs from the autopsy of two patients who died of pneumonia in Wuhan on February 16.
文章介绍该男性患者今年 50 岁，曾有武汉旅游史，最早在 1 月 14 日出现发病症状，但直到 1 月 21 日病情加重后才前往医院就医。
The man, who is 50 years old and had a history of travel to Wuhan, developed symptoms as early as January 14, but did not go to the hospital until January 21, when his condition worsened.
22 日，患者被正式确诊为新冠肺炎，进入隔离病房治疗。
22, the patient was officially confirmed as the new crown pneumonia, into the isolation ward for treatment.
期间患者先后出现低血氧症、严重呼吸困窘、心脏骤停。
During the period of hypoxemia, severe respiratory embarrassment, cardiac arrest.
最后于入院一周（发病后第 14 天）抢救无效去世。
Finally in the admission of a week (14 days after the onset of illness) rescue failed to die.
图 | 该患者患病至逝世病程记录在最新研究中，研究组通过在患者逝世后穿刺获取肺、肝和心脏组织样本，分析了患者的病理特征。
In the latest study, the team analyzed the pathology of patients by puncture and taking samples of lung, liver and heart tissue after their death.
文章指出，研究发现患者右肺组织可见明显的细胞脱离和肺透明膜的形成，这一现象提示患者曾出现急性呼吸窘迫综合征（图 2A）。
The study found significant cell detachment and hyaluronema formation in the right lung tissue, suggesting acute respiratory distress syndrome (Figure 2A).
与右肺组织相区别的是，患者左肺组织出现肺水肿以及透明膜形成现象，提示存在早期急性呼吸窘迫综合征（图 2B）。
In contrast to right lung tissue, pulmonary edema and hyaluronema formation occurred in the left lung tissue, suggesting the presence of early acute respiratory distress syndrome (Figure 2B).
研究人员认为，此次新冠肺炎的病理特征与 SARS 和中东呼吸综合征冠状病毒感染相似。
The researchers believe the pathologic features of the new crown pneumonia are similar to those of SARS and the coronavirus infection of the Middle East respiratory syndrome.
图 | 患者右 (a) 和左 (b) 肺组织、肝组织（c）和心脏组织（d）的病理表现肝组织显示中度的微血管脂肪变性和轻度的小叶活动，但目前尚无证据指出肝损伤的原因是病毒感染引起，还是药物性肝损伤。
Liver tissue showed moderate microvascular steatosis and mild lobular activity at right (a) and left (b) lung tissue, liver tissue (c), and cardiac tissue (d), but there is no evidence to suggest that liver damage was caused by viral infection or drug-induced liver damage.
关于新冠病毒对心脏进行攻击的说法，研究团队在文章中指出，该患者心脏组织有少量炎性细胞浸润，但并无其它实质性损伤，表明新冠病毒可能不会直接损害心脏。
As for the claim that the new crown virus attacks the heart, the team noted in the article that the patient's heart tissue was infiltrated with a small amount of inflammatory cells, but there was no other substantial damage, suggesting that the new crown virus may not directly damage the heart.
此外，对血液的研究分析显示，患者 T 细胞的过度激活，表现为 Th17 的增加和 CD8T 细胞的高细胞毒性，这一定程度上说明了该患者的严重免疫损伤。
In addition, an analysis of the blood showed an overactivation of T cells in patients with increased Th17 and high cytotoxicity in CD8T cells, which partly explains the severity of the immune impairment in this patient.
在患者治疗方面，研究人员在文章中表示，虽然皮质类固醇并不是此次新冠病毒常规推荐药物，但根据检测中发现的肺水肿和透明膜形成的现象，重症病人应当及时恰当地使用糖皮质激素和呼吸机支持，以预防出现急性呼吸窘迫综合征。
While corticosteroids are not routinely recommended for the new crown virus, severe patients should use glucocorticoid and ventilator support in a timely and appropriate manner to prevent acute respiratory distress syndrome, according to findings of pulmonary edema and hyaluronema formation.
新冠病毒疫情爆发至今，累计确诊人数已经达到 7.4 万余人，截至 2 月 19 日中午，累计死亡人数达到 2009 人。
Since the outbreak of the new crown virus, more than 74,000 people have been diagnosed. As of noon on February 19, the total number of deaths reached 2009.
而到目前为止，针对新冠病毒仍没有完整尸检报告发布。
So far, no complete autopsy report has been published for the new crown virus.
根据中国科学报报道，中国科学院院士、临床病理学专家卞修武曾表示，要彻底获悉患者体内病原体（病因）情况和死亡原因，尸检是最好的材料来源。
Bian Xiuwu, a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and an expert in clinical pathology, said an autopsy was the best source of information about the pathogen and the cause of death in patients.
尸体解剖是疑难和新发疾病诊断与研究的最基本和最重要方法，也是 “最后诊断” 方法。
Autopsy is the most basic and important method for diagnosis and research of difficult and new diseases. It is also the "final diagnosis" method.
完整的尸检报告，能明确器官病变、分析发病机制和判断死因；帮助分析播散途径，为防控措施提供有益信息；准确诊断并发症，协助完善诊断规范，提升诊治水平。
A complete autopsy report can identify organ lesions, analyze pathogenesis and determine the cause of death; help to analyse the means of transmission and provide useful information for prevention and control measures; and accurately diagnose complications, help improve diagnostic criteria and improve diagnosis and treatment.
好在通过完整尸检得到的病例分析可在未来一周左右得到。
Fortunately, the case analysis from the complete autopsy will be available in the next week or so.
2 月 16 日凌晨，全国第一例感染新冠病毒逝世患者的遗体解剖工作在武汉市金银潭医院完成。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 16, the autopsy of the body of the nation's first deceased patient with the new crown virus was completed at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
同日下午第二例新冠肺炎逝世患者的遗体解剖工作也在金银潭医院顺利完成。
On the afternoon of the same day, the autopsy of the body of the second patient who died of Newcastle Pneumonia was successfully completed.
遗体解剖工作由曾参与 SARS 病例解剖工作的法医病理学专家、湖北省司法鉴定协会会长刘良教授团队及其他相关专家共同进行。
The autopsy was carried out by a team of forensic pathologists who had been involved in the autopsy of SARS cases, Professor Liu Liang, head of the Hubei Forensic Accreditation Association, and other relevant experts.
目前，这两具遗体解剖病理已被送检，预计 10 日内可得到病理报告。
At present, the two remains of the autopsy pathology has been sent for examination, expect to be available within 10 days.
-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠患者首个病理报告出炉：病理特征与SARS、MERS非常类似。
The first pathologic report of the new crown patient was presented. The pathologic features were very similar to SARS and MERS.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "新冠患者首个病理报告出炉：病理特征与SARS、MERS非常类似";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "2 月 17 日，《柳叶刀 · 呼吸医学》（The Lancet Respiratory Medicine）";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, on February 17.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
