湖北有很多鸡，怕撑不过正月十五了。
There are many chickens in Hubei, I'm afraid we can't last the fifteenth day.
汪韬。
Wang Tao.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月5日破壳的小鸡，羽毛还没有长好，住在温室。
January 5, 2020 broken shell chicken, feathers have not grown well, living in a greenhouse.
（易忠华供图/图）全文共2872字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
(The full text is 2872 words. It takes about 7 minutes to read.
卖一波成鸡——进一批饲料和小鸡——还贷款，这是养殖户的商业模式，但易忠华担心，鸡再卖不出去，资金链可能就断了。
Selling a wave of chicken - into a batch of feed and chickens - to repay the loan is a business model for farmers, but Mr Yi worries that the chain could break down if the chicken is not sold again.
此外，他更担心销售模式变了，如果后期大家都着急卖鸡，屠宰场统一收购、压价，不知道要亏多少。
In addition, he is more worried about the sales model changed, if everyone is anxious to sell chicken, slaughterhouse unified acquisition, low prices, do not know how much to lose.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汪韬责任编辑 | 曹海东元旦期间刚破壳的小鸡，羽毛还没长好，蜷缩在温室里。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
易忠华却担心它们一天天在长大，甚至动了活埋这些小生灵的心思。
Yi Zhonghua feared that they grew up day by day, and even moved to bury the minds of these little creatures.
易忠华是湖北省宜昌市枝江市的养殖户，饲养了六千只小鸡。
Yi Zhonghua is a breeding farm in Zhijiang City, Yichang City, Hubei Province, with 6,000 chickens.
在这些小鸡孵出之前，400公里外的省会武汉暴发了新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情。
Before the chickens hatched, a new outbreak of coronavirus-infected pneumonia erupted 400 kilometers away in Wuhan, the provincial capital.
截至2020年1月30日，全国31个省（自治区、直辖市）和新疆生产建设兵团累计报告确诊病例7711例，超过了2003年SARS确诊的病例数目。
By January 30, 2020, a total of 7711 confirmed cases had been reported in 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, surpassing the number of cases confirmed by SARS in 2003.
虽然新型冠状病毒是否起源于武汉华南海鲜市场还需更多研究，但1月26日，中国疾控中心的检测结果表明，在武汉华南海鲜市场的22个摊位和1个垃圾车检测到新型冠状病毒，其中93.9%阳性标本分布在市场的西区，这里曾存在多家野生动物交易商铺。
Although more research is needed on whether the new coronavirus originated in Wuhan South China Seafood Market, Chinese CDC test results on January 26 showed that 22 stalls and a garbage truck in Wuhan South China Seafood Market detected a new coronavirus, with 93.9% of the positive samples found in the western part of the market.
正是在此背景下，全国叫停野生动物交易，多地也开始严禁销售活禽。
It is in this context, the national ban on wildlife trading, many also began to ban the sale of live poultry.
交易暂停，活禽卖不出去；封了路，饲料进不来，养殖户忧心忡忡。
Trade is suspended and live poultry cannot be sold; roads are closed, fodder is not allowed in and farmers are worried.
按照原计划，易忠华的这些小鸡将在破壳后四个半月后出栏。
According to the original plan, Yi Zhonghua these chickens will break the shell four and a half months after the column.
但现在它们就是一个个小吞金兽，张嘴就要吃饲料。
But now they are small gold swallowing animals, open mouth to eat feed.
易忠华不知疫情何时能稳定，他担心自己的养殖场撑不到小鸡出栏，最多撑到正月十五。
Yi Zhonghua does not know when the epidemic will stabilize, he worried that his farm can not sustain chicken out of the column, at most until the fifteenth day of the first month.
2020年1月30日，农业农村部、交通运输部和公安部发布了紧急通知，要求确保“菜篮子”产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序，严格执行“绿色通道”制度。
On 30 January 2020, the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Affairs, Transport and Public Security issued an emergency notice to ensure the normal flow of "basket" products and means of agricultural production and to strictly implement the "Green Channel" system.
即便饲料运得进来，活鸡还是不能售卖。
Live chickens cannot be sold even if feed can be brought in.
一线养殖户们也许并未注意到一年前的另一条政策。
Frontline farmers may not have noticed another policy a year ago.
2018年4月，农业农村部公告称，鼓励畜禽养殖、屠宰加工企业推行“规模养殖、集中屠宰、冷链运输、冷鲜上市”模式，以加强畜禽移动监管和防疫。
In April 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs announced that livestock and poultry production and slaughtering enterprises would be encouraged to adopt the model of "large-scale breeding, centralized slaughter, cold-chain transport and cold-fresh marketing" in order to strengthen animal and poultry movement control and epidemic prevention.
目前来看，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情可能会进一步推动畜禽集中屠宰模式转型，消费者今后恐难在菜市场挑选活禽，现宰现杀。
At present, the new coronavirus infection pneumonia may further promote the transformation of animal slaughter mode, consumers in the future may be difficult to select live poultry in the Hallucinovirus slaughtering.
只是，一线养殖户们似乎还没有准备好，对于集中收购的价格，心里也还没底。
Just, first-line farmers do not seem to be ready for the price of a centralized acquisition, the heart is not yet bottomed.
1饲料最多撑到正月十五按照此前湖北省政府启动突发公共卫生事件Ⅱ级应急响应的工作部署，1月22日，湖北省市场监管局的措施中就包括活禽禁售，发到养殖户手上的告知书照片也在宜昌的养殖微信群里散开来。
On January 22, the measures of the Hubei Provincial Market Supervisory Authority included the ban on the sale of live poultry, and photos of notices issued to farmers spread through the breeding micro-letter cluster in Yichang.
据南方周末记者搜索，不只是湖北，禁止活禽交易的还有江苏、重庆、河南、宁夏等多地。
Hubei is not the only city where live poultry are banned from trading, according to Southern Weekend News.
暂停活禽交易之外，养殖户迫在眉睫的困难是饲料紧缺。
In addition to the temporary suspension of live poultry trade, farmers are facing imminent difficulties in feed shortage.
除了这六千只小鸡，易忠华家里五千只散养的土鸡也已经长大，这一万多张口，每天要吃掉约两千块钱。
In addition to the 6,000 chickens, Yi Zhonghua's 5, 000 loose chickens have grown up, more than 10, 000 mouths, and eat about two thousand a day.
家里五千只散养的土鸡已经长大了，亟待出栏。
Five thousand turkeys in the family had grown up and needed to come out.
（易忠华供图/图）禽类的饲料包括玉米和加工饲料等，由于占地多，保质期短，一般，养殖场只备半个月的饲料，就有饲料厂的业务员送货上门。
Feeds for poultry include corn and processed feedstuffs. Due to their large land area and short shelf-life, the farm usually has only half a month's fodder to be delivered by the store staff.
考虑到春节期间饲料厂放假，养殖户会多攒一些，但最多也就到正月十五。
Taking into account the Spring Festival feed factory holiday, farmers will save more, but up to the fifteenth day of the first month.
大年初二，宜昌市夷陵区思云归养殖合作社负责人陈卫东就意识到行情不对头。
New Year's Day, Yichang YilingDistrict Yilingyuan farming co-operatives Chen Wei-dong is aware that the market is not right.
他坐车出去转了一圈，发现到处封路，30公里堵了七八次。
He took a drive around and found the road blocked everywhere, 30 kilometers blocked seven or eight times.
有的路口砌了土，有的堆了块大石头，有的干脆停了辆破车。
Some of the intersections were paved with earth, some were piled up with large stones, others stopped a broken car altogether.
疫情发生之后，除了市区“封”交通，农村也纷纷封路，“现在请吃的饭都是鸿门宴”“今天到处串门，明天肺炎上门”等横幅满天。
After the outbreak, in addition to the urban "closed" traffic, the countryside has also blocked the road, "now invited to eat dinner is Hongmen banquet" "today everywhere, tomorrow pneumonia door-to-door" and other banner throughout the sky.
这些措施有效阻断了人员流动，也一定程度上影响了饲料运输。
These measures have effectively disrupted the movement of people and, to some extent, the transport of fodder.
1月29日下午，南方周末记者给宜昌一家饲料厂业务员打了电话，业务员说现在还没上班，不过库存是够的，可以撑个把月。
On the afternoon of January 29, Southern Weekend reporter phoned a clerk at a feed factory in Yichang. The salesman said he hadn't come to work yet, but the stock was enough for a month.
对于交通问题，他说可能需要开具绿色通行证。
On the question of transportation, he said that a green pass might be needed.
怎么办证？南方周末记者以养殖户身份咨询了宜昌市交通局，交通局建议咨询宜昌卫健委，卫健委一位工作人员表示，运货的话，交警应该可以放行。
Southern Weekend reporter to the identity of farmers consulted Yichang City Transport Bureau, the Transport Bureau advised to consult Yichang Fitness Commission, a health workers said that if the freight, traffic police should be allowed to release.
交通局继而回复，可以打110询问交警是否放行。
The traffic authorities then replied by calling 110 to ask if the traffic police would release them.
陈卫东担心的倒不是绿色通行证，他担心饲料厂原材料来自全国各地，有的甚至可能要从东北拉玉米，饲料厂的库存用完之后，再加工生产新饲料，恐无原材料。
Rather than worrying about green permits, Chen worries that raw materials for the factory will come from all over the country, and some may even need to be processed and produced from the northeast after stocks run out, possibly without raw materials.
陈卫东赶紧去农贸市场找了卖玉米的店家，“玉米一定给我留住”。
Chen Wei-dong hurriedly went to the farmers' market to find stores selling corn, "corn must give me stay."
饲料运输难题不止宜昌一地。
Feed transportation problems are more than just Yichang.
微信公众号“智慧养鸡”贴了一份落款2020年1月26日，敲着红章的湖北省黄冈市黄梅县农业农村局的文件《关于屠宰场、养殖场饲料运输和产品外出的请示》，文件向县防控工作指挥部建议，实行绿色通道，保障存栏动物的正常生产，维护社会稳定。
On January 26, 2020, the document of the Huangmei County Agricultural and Rural Bureau of Huangmei County, Huanggang City, Hubei Province, which tapped the red seal, "Instructions on Slaughterhouses, Farm Feed Transport and Product Excursion," recommended to the county control and control command that a green passage be adopted to guarantee the normal production of stored animals and maintain social stability.
1月29日下午，黄梅县农业农村局回复南方周末记者，他们的请示打上去之后，指挥部很快就批准了。
On the afternoon of January 29, the Huangmei County Agricultural and Rural Bureau replied to Southern Weekend reporter, their request was typed up, the command headquarters quickly approved.
局长李亚军介绍，现在每天可以办理几十个，大部分是运饲料和蛋类，村民按照这样的流程就可以很快地获得绿色通道：村里开证明是本地养殖场需要饲料，再到乡镇、农业农村局、应急指挥部逐级批准。
Director Li Yajun introduced, can now handle dozens of daily, mostly feed and eggs, villagers can quickly access the green channel: the village certification is local farms need feed, then to the township, agricultural and rural bureau, emergency command level approval.
“我们办公室有人在就可以办。
"We can do that if we have people in our office.
”李亚军说。
"said Li Yajun.
2鸡再卖不出去，资金链就断了得知饲料的燃眉之急可以解决后，易忠华还是没有高兴起来，“饲料靠钱总是可以解决，但鸡怕是卖不出去”。
2 Chicken can not sell out, the chain of funds to know that the urgent feed can be solved, Yi Zhonghua is still not happy, "Feed by money can always be solved, but chicken is probably not sold."
2017年起，易忠华同时养起了猪和鸡，2019年非洲猪瘟肆虐，他完全改成了养鸡，“非洲猪瘟影响的那口气儿还没有喘过来”。
From 2017 onwards, Yi Zhonghua raised pigs and chickens at the same time, 2019 African swine fever ravages, he completely changed to chicken, "African swine fever impact of the tone has not yet breathed."
平日里，易忠华的鸡销售给饭店或是菜市场的老板。
On weekdays, Yi Zhonghua's chickens are sold to the owner of a restaurant or a vegetable market.
今年春节，他手上的这一批鸡本来已经卖得晚了。
This batch of chickens on his hands was already sold late this Spring Festival.
不同品种的鸡出栏时间不同，价格不同，比如白羽鸡只需42天，易忠华的鸡要4个半月。
Different types of chickens come out at different times and at different prices, such as 42 days for white feathered chickens and 4 1 / 2 months for faithful chickens.
综合下来，一只鸡的成本价在4.5元/斤左右。
Taken together, the cost of a chicken is around 4.5 yuan per catty.
2019年，受非洲猪瘟影响，养鸡户数量飙升，2019年6月，孵化场小鸡的价格翻了倍，国庆节期间，易忠华的鸡卖到了13元一斤。
In 2019, the number of chicken farmers affected by African swine fever soared, with the price of hatchlings doubling in June 2019 and Yi Zhonghua's chickens selling at 13 yuan a catty during the National Day.
但到了春节前夕，这一批成鸡又供大于求，滞销了，“我的鸡只能每斤卖九块，白羽鸡可能卖一块六吧。
But on the eve of the Spring Festival, the supply of adult chickens exceeded demand. "My chickens are only selling for nine yuan per catty.
”易忠华回忆，“但是有价无市，根本卖不动。
"Yi Zhonghua recalls," but the price is not a city, not selling.
”卖一波成鸡——进一批饲料和小鸡——还贷款，这是养殖户的商业模式。
Selling a wave of chicken - into a batch of feed and chickens - to pay back the loans is a business model for farmers.
按照2020年的情况，陈卫东估计，大部分养殖户是腊月二十五备饲料，初三开始卖鸡，初八饲料厂上班，再买新饲料。
According to the situation in 2020, Chen Wei-dong estimated that the majority of farmers are Raw 25 feed, the beginning of the third day of chicken, Jiubao feed factory to work, and then buy new feed.
“一万只鸡，几百一千的卖，半个月可以卖完。
Ten thousand chickens for a few hundred thousand, and they'll be sold out in half a month
”但初五这日，他在菜市场转，发现几乎没有什么买菜的人。
But on the fifth day of the month he turned up at the Halles market and found that there were few buyers.
易忠华担心，鸡再卖不出去，资金链可能就断了。
Yi Zhonghua worries, chicken again cannot sell out, capital chain may break.
此外，他更担心销售模式变了，如果后期大家都着急卖鸡，屠宰场统一收购、压价，不知道要亏多少。
In addition, he is more worried about the sales model changed, if everyone is anxious to sell chicken, slaughterhouse unified acquisition, low prices, do not know how much to lose.
1月29日，南方周末记者联系了宜昌一家屠宰公司，该人士称还没上班，要等政府统一通知，匆匆挂了电话。
On January 29, Southern Weekend reporter contacted a slaughterhouse in Yichang, who said he had not come to work.
消费者图鸡肉新鲜，乐于挑选活鸡，现宰现杀。
Consumers pictured chicken fresh, happy to pick live chickens, slaughtered now.
但活禽的长距离运输和存储容易带来疫病风险，落实农业农村部的部署，各地都在推动集中屠宰工作。
However, the long-range transport and storage of live poultry poses a risk of disease, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has been deployed to promote intensive slaughtering.
易忠华所在的枝江市政府网站就曾发布一条新闻：2019年7月，市农业农村局、市场监管局、经信局、城管局等部门联合，强力推进了城区禁止活禽交易屠宰专项整治行动，枝江市活禽集中屠宰检疫、冷链配送、白条上市的禽类肉产品供应模式全面成型。
In July 2019, the Municipal Agricultural and Rural Bureau, the Market Regulatory Authority, the Economic Information Bureau and the City Administration jointly launched a special campaign to ban the sale and slaughter of live poultry in urban areas.
行动目的正是“强化畜禽屠宰行业监管力度，降低疫病传播流行风险”。
The aim of the action is to "strengthen the supervision of animal slaughter industry, reduce the risk of epidemic disease spread."
李亚军介绍，黄冈市黄梅县要办集中的屠宰场，建设计划原来就有，现在正在推进，比起私自屠宰，环保、卫生条件都会更好。
Li said that Huangmei County Huangmei City to do a centralized slaughterhouse, the original construction plan, is now advancing, than the private slaughter, environmental protection, sanitary conditions will be better.
对于屠宰场是否会压价的问题，他说，“要看市场规律、群众需求、杠杆条件，总有操作的办法，政府会保障群众利益。
"Depending on the laws of the market, the needs of the masses, the conditions of leverage, there is always a way to operate, and the government will safeguard the interests of the masses," he said.
”除了担心屠宰场压价，易忠华另一个担心是，暂停活禽交易给消费者带来强烈的信号，“再不敢买鸡肉了，尤其周边的省份不敢买我们湖北省疫区的鸡。
In addition to concerns about the low prices of slaughterhouses, Mr Yi's other concern is that the moratorium on live poultry trade has sent a strong signal to consumers "not to buy chicken any more, especially in the surrounding provinces, which dare not buy chickens from our afflicted areas in Hubei Province."
鸡鸭鹅到底会不会传染、携带这个（新型冠状）病毒？” 易忠华希望有专家明确指出来，“不能含糊其辞”。
Will chickens, ducks and geese infect and carry the virus? Yi Zhonghua wants experts to make it clear that "there is no ambiguity."
养殖户们都预测，最近已经没养殖户愿意再孵小鸡了，2-3个月后市场如果没什么活鸡，鸡肉价格会上涨，但眼下难题是，他们能不能坚持到那一天。
Farm farmers are predicting that no farmers are willing to hatch any more chickens recently, and chicken prices will rise in two to three months if there are no live chickens in the market, but the immediate question is whether they can hold out until that day.
易忠华则有点心灰意冷，不再想搞养殖，想出去打工。
Yi Zhonghua is a little discouraged, no longer want to do farming, want to work outside.
可是44岁的他要去哪里打工呢？（于茗骞亦有贡献）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
But where does the 44-year-old man go to work? [Qian also contributes] Southern Weekend is now soliciting news leads from all readers who are on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北有很多鸡，怕撑不过正月十五了。
There are many chickens in Hubei, I'm afraid we can't last the fifteenth day.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "湖北有很多鸡，怕撑不过正月十五了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Hubei & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
