以社区为界，肺炎疫情下被限制的人口流动 – 所有的鱼/* declared */。
Community bound, restricted population movement under pneumonia - all fish / * declared * /.
以社区为界，肺炎疫情下被限制的人口流动 – 所有的鱼<br>。
Community bound, restricted population movement with pneumonia - all AT & L; br & gt;;
| title       = 以社区为界，肺炎疫情下被限制的人口流动 – 所有的鱼。
& # 124; & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
| url         = https://allthefishnews.wordpress.com/2020/02/19/肺炎疫情下被限制的人口流动/。
& # 124; url = https: / / allthefishnews.wordpress.com / 2020 / 02 / 19 / restricted population movements / in the context of the pneumonia epidemic.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
世界毁灭之前都发生了什么			。
What happened before the world was destroyed.
以社区为界，肺炎疫情下被限制的人口流动 。
Community-bound, restricted population movement in the context of pneumonia.
作者 | 张依依 任思远                                                                                                                           。
At Ren Yin Yuan's service.
编辑 | 韩方航。
South Korean Airlines.
新冠肺炎蔓延时，对人口的网格式排查、管控在多个城市发生。
When the new crown pneumonia spread, the population of the screen format screening, control took place in a number of cities.
武汉“封城”数天之后，全民普查开始进行，对“四类人员”分类进行收治和隔离；2 月 14 日开始，所有小区除就医和防疫工作人员外，一律不许外出。
Wuhan "closed the city" a few days after the start of the census, the "four categories of people" classification of treatment and isolation, February 14, all except for medical and vaccination workers, all residential areas are not allowed to go out.
春节假期结束，企业陆续复工，深圳、成都、兰州等城市也宣布，对小区里的外来人口进行“封闭式管理”。
At the end of the Spring Festival, enterprises have resumed work, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Lanzhou and other cities have also announced that the community of foreign residents "closed management."
【1】。
[1].
这种情况下，居（村）委会、街道办事处比以往更频繁地参与进中国人的生活、成为显眼的存在，也成为社会对抗疫情的第一线。
In this situation, the residential (village) committees, street offices are more frequently involved in the life of the Chinese people, become a prominent presence, and become the front line of the social fight against the epidemic.
他们负责维持社区中的秩序，将求助者和医疗资源对接在一起。
They are responsible for maintaining order in the community, connecting sufferers with medical resources.
在某种程度上，这是过去几年中，中国地方政府强调的基层治理想要达到的目标。
To some extent, this is what local governments in China have emphasized over the past few years to achieve at the grassroots level.
然而，在实际操作中，我们却发现社区很难承担起这样的重任。
In practice, however, we find it difficult for the community to take on such a heavy responsibility.
。
.
杨羳目前住在湖北省咸宁市的福星城小区，距离武汉仅一个多小时的车程。
Yang Zhen lives in the Fuxing City district of Xianning City in Hubei Province more than an hour's drive from Wuhan.
武汉封城几天后，这里成为咸宁第一个全封闭式的小区；他所在的楼栋因为出现一例确诊而被完全封锁。
Wuhan sealed the city a few days later, here became Xianning's first fully closed community; his building was completely blocked by a diagnosis.
当时，地方媒体还对这个小区封闭后的生活状况进行了报道，表示在临时组织的党支部志愿团队下，一切都在有序运转。
At the time, local media also reported on living conditions in the area after the closure, saying everything was running smoothly under the temporary party branch volunteer team.
但杨羳说，实际上生活物资的供应问题一直没有得到解决。
But Mr. Yang says the problem of supplies has not been solved in practice.
。
.
政府承诺配发的物资，比如体温计、消毒液和口罩，发放的方式是在群里报名，通常一个小时内就会截止。
Materials promised by the government, such as thermometers, disinfectants and masks, are distributed in groups, usually within an hour.
居民的所有需求都需要通过这个群来进行上报，这让他需要不断地去关注群内的消息，害怕错过重要的通知，“整个人感到很焦虑”。
All the needs of the residents need to be reported through this group, which makes them constantly aware of the news in the group, afraid of missing out on important announcements, and "very anxious."
。
.
小区封闭后，外送的货品不再能够送达，社区让他们必须用一个指定的 APP 下单买菜。
When the neighborhood is closed, outgoing goods can no longer be delivered, and the community makes it necessary for them to place an order with a designated APP.
上面种类单一，配送时间也不稳定，前期还出现过严重的运营问题，导致无法下单；菜送到小区后，从小区门口到各个居住单元的配送，也没有人负责，一度陷入混乱。
The above types are single, delivery time is not stable, there have been serious operational problems in the early period, resulting in the inability to order; vegetables after delivery to the community, from the door of the community to the distribution of units, no one responsible, once fell into chaos.
。
.
武汉江汉区一街道处于汉口的核心区域，副书记王珊和我们描述了这里基层运作的情况。
Wuhan Jianghan District, a street in the heart of Hankou district, deputy secretary Wang Shan and we described the operation of the grass-roots level here.
她表示，在整个疫情反应的过程中，街道都没有被事先通知。
She said the streets were not notified in advance throughout the outbreak response.
绝大部分指令都和普通市民在同一时间接到，有些甚至还是先从新闻、公众号推送里得知的。
The vast majority of instructions are received at the same time as ordinary citizens, some of them even from the news, the public in the push to learn.
。
.
“（1 月 23 日）之前还在安排说去哪里吃年夜饭，突然就说封城了。
"Before (January 23) I was planning to go to dinner, but suddenly I said it was off town.
但也没有人跟我们说要怎样上班，只说排班会比平时密集一些。
But no one told us how to get to work, only that scheduling would be more intensive than usual.
被叫去单位的路上我们都还在说，那怎么回来呢？”。
On the way to work, we all said, "How can we get back?"
信息的滞后导致基层陷入应激的状态，他们无法回答居民的困惑，对于政策的不断变化随之而来的诸多新问题，也只能随机应变。
The lag in information leads to a state of stress at the grass-roots level, which is unable to answer the confusion of the population and can only adapt to the many new problems that come with changing policies.
社区分诊的要求在最初下达时，并没有一个清晰的流程，他们需要自行摸索，不断试错。
There was no clear process for community referral when it was first issued, and they had to grope their way through it, trying to make mistakes.
“后来就感觉整个医疗系统都很崩溃，直接说我不知道你可以转移到哪里。
"It felt like the whole system was crashing and I didn't know where you could move," he said.
社区医院把一个空的转运单给居民，让居民问社区转到哪里。
The community hospital gave residents an empty transit slip and asked them to ask where the community had been transferred.
你说这是不是很可笑？”。
Do you think this is ridiculous?
街道社区的层面，他们只能做到病例的上报和转运。
At the neighbourhood level, they can only report and transfer cases.
但初期很多病人即便被送到医院，也会因为没有床位又被打回社区。
But in the early days many patients were sent back to the community because of lack of beds, even if they were taken to hospital.
区指挥部和医院信息的不一致，床位的急缺，导致社区按照名单送去医院的病人也不一定能被收治。
Inconsistent information from district commands and hospitals and the acute shortage of beds have led to the non-admission of patients sent to hospitals by communities on the basis of lists.
之间的反复对于患者，尤其是一些上年纪的患者，在身体和心理上都是极大的煎熬。
Repeatedly between patients, especially some elderly patients, in physical and psychological suffering.
“他会觉得就像是被抛弃了一样，我们辖区就有极端的现象，有些人反复无法被收治，跳楼、上吊的，这里就有两、三例。
"He would feel as if he had been abandoned. There are extreme cases in our district where people cannot be treated repeatedly, jumping off buildings, hanging people, here are two or three cases.
”。
"
“我们就只能往医院送，告诉他别回来，没有床也别回来。
"We'll just have to go to the hospital and tell him not to come back, not to have a bed.
在那儿等，然后就可能排的上。
Wait there, then maybe row up.
很多人连送都送不进去，进去是一道坎，进去以后等床位又是一道坎。
Many people can not even send into the bar, is a bar, after entering, waiting for the bed is a bar.
我们有很多进去的，是自己死缠烂打你知道吗？就是会哭的孩子有奶吃，真的就是这样。
We had a lot of going in there, you know? Crying kids have milk, that's what it is.
”。
"
在王珊看来，从一开始，对于疑似和确诊患者的转运就不应该让街道和社区负责。
In Shan's view, from the outset, the streets and communities should not be held responsible for the transfer of suspected and diagnosed patients.
“我们什么都没有，没有专业的设备，没有专业的知识和防护手段，我们的车都是敞篷的，都是电瓶车。
"We don't have anything, we don't have professional equipment, we don't have the expertise, we don't have the means to defend ourselves.
”在街道的电瓶车坏掉之后，他们不得不改装了一辆运货的小皮卡，里面搭一只条凳，来用作病人的运输。
After the car broke down on the street, they had to refit a delivery pickup truck and set up a bench to transport patients.
。
.
但因为“属地管理”原则，社区成为直接问责对象。
But because of the principle of "territoriality," the community becomes the object of direct accountability.
在这次疫情期间，官方三级就医流程的不通畅，导致许多患者或患者家属不得不通过社交平台进行求助，舆论关注为一些人打通了难得的救生通道。
During the outbreak, poor access to official tertiary care resulted in many patients or their families having to seek help through social platforms, and public opinion concerns opened up rare life-saving avenues for some.
其中也有一部分 ，是被送到医院后没有床位而进行求助，最终这些需求又返到社区手上。
Part of the problem is that people are sent to hospitals with no beds to go to for help, and then those needs end up in the community.
“因为属地管理的问题，别的部门就会追着你，让你处理这个问题，我们就很无奈，因为我们解决不了，最后这就是一个压力的循环。
"Because of the problem of territorial management, other departments will chase you and let you deal with it, we are helpless because we can't solve it, and finally it is a cycle of pressure.
”。
"
对内，社区艰难地起到维护社区秩序的功能；对外，封闭举措却又成为人们寻求帮助的阻碍。
Internally, communities struggle to maintain community order; externally, closures act as a barrier to people seeking help.
。
.
杨羳平时常住在武汉市内。
Yang usually resides in Wuhan.
1 月 23 日封城的前一天，他从武汉开车前往咸宁办事。
The day before the city was closed on January 23, he drove from Wuhan to Xianning on business.
两天后，当他试图驱车返回时，发现国道在早于政府通知的时间就被提前关闭。
Two days later, when he tried to drive back, he found that the National Highway had been closed earlier than the time notified by the Government.
于是他决定绕开国道走土路上高速，开到一半，发现前面的村庄堵住了村口，又只好调头往回开，没想到刚刚路过的另一个村庄，就在过去的十分钟里也堆砌土石，截断了路面，“前后几百米的一小段，我就被堵在中间，出不去了。
Then he decided to bypass the highway on the National Highway and in the middle of it he found that the village in front of him had blocked the entrance of the village and had to turn back, only to find that another village which had just passed had blocked the road with earth and stones for the past ten minutes.
”。
"
“我跟村干部说，我回到那边去那个村子也封路了。
"I told the village officials that I had closed the way back to the village.
他回复说，那你上那个村我就管不着了。
He replied, Then you go to that village and I won't mind.
”他感到无计可施，最终还是一名过路的村民指了一条小路，才得以返回咸宁的住处。
"Feeling helpless, he finally showed a passing villager a path before returning to his residence in Xianning.
。
.
各自封锁的管控举措成为疫情之下控制居民出行、人口流动最直接的方式，住宅区域成为最基本的流动边界。
The control of the respective closures has become the most direct way to control the movement of the population and population in the event of the epidemic, with residential areas becoming the most basic mobile borders.
每个人的健康状况、身份和出行信息都会被基层组织知晓登记，他们再依据标准不一的规定，对居民进行行动范围的限制。
The health status, identity and travel information of each individual is registered by grass-roots organizations, which in turn restrict the scope of action of the population in accordance with different standards.
一些原本是开放式的小区或村子，用木板、砖块等各种手段对小路进行封堵，只留下有专人不间断卡点的一个出入口。
Some were originally open small areas or villages, with wood, brick and other means of blocking the path, leaving only a person uninterrupted card point of entry and exit.
。
.
防疫变成一场相继封锁大门的赛跑，并且从 2 月初开始明显加速。
The epidemic became a race to block the gates one after the other and accelerated markedly from the beginning of February.
湖北省以外的多地，包括温州、临汾、南京、福州都开始采取类似的举措——封闭式管理，公共交通设施暂停。
Many places outside Hubei province, including Wenzhou, Linfen, Nanjing and Fuzhou, began taking similar measures - closed management and suspension of public transport facilities.
。
.
福星城小区居民经历的困窘状况，在武汉市内也同样存在。
The embarrassment experienced by residents of Foxing City also exists in Wuhan.
随着 14 日居住小区全面封锁，部分地区的商超不再接受个人订单，而必须通过社区团购。
With the total closure of the 14-day residential district, some areas of the super-business no longer accept individual orders, but through community purchase.
微博上就曾出现求助信息，内容是老年人因为无法适应手机下单而陷入困难。
Help messages have appeared on microblogs about older people having trouble adjusting to cell phone orders.
。
.
在小区被封闭的无助的情况下，杨羳感到一种新的人情网络开始出现，就是居民和管理者的关系。
In the small area is closed helpless, Yang Zhen felt a new human network began to emerge, is the relationship between residents and managers.
比如，一些与物业有私交的居民，会托他们帮忙把快递拿进来，或是去旁边的大超市代购商品。
For example, some residents who have personal relationships with property will ask them to help bring express mail in, or to buy goods at a nearby supermarket.
“因为政府没有讲原则，就逼着每个人不得不屈服于这种私人关系，这让我觉得我的个人的尊严也受到了损害。
"Because the government is not principled, it forces everyone to succumb to this kind of personal relationship, which makes me feel that my personal dignity has been compromised.
”。
"
原本由公共设施织成的生活保障的网络被打破，社区成为人们必须求助的对象，事务拥堵，行事效率变得低下。
The network of life-support services that had been woven into public facilities had been broken, and communities had become objects of recourse, congestion and inefficiency.
而当具体的任务执行都压到最下面一层，管制手段和人们就医、生活、返工之间的矛盾也积压到社区之上，形成又一种“压力的循环”。
When specific tasks are pushed to the bottom, the conflict between controls and people's access to health care, life, and rework accumulates in the community, creating yet another "cycle of stress."
。
.
社会学学者郦菁在《官僚体系与公民社会，谁是肺炎危机的答案？》一文中指出，封锁举措的本意是尽快切断传染链条，但也间接导致了制度化的社会保护网络同时急速崩溃。
Li Jing, a sociologist, notes in his article Bureaucratic System and Civil Society, Who Is the Answer to the Pneumonia Crisis that the blockade is intended to cut off the transmission chain as soon as possible, but also indirectly leads to the simultaneous collapse of an institutionalized social protection network.
【2】。
[2].
“对于社会网络的依赖，通常是极具阶级性的。
"Dependence on social networks is often highly hierarchical.
那些没有车的，没有房的，没有经济资源的，没有各种可资利用的社会资本的人群，现在被迫艰难地生活在社会孤岛之中，甚至丧失了栖身之地；而那些患病的，年迈的，残疾的，甚至连亲属网络也暂时无法依靠。
Those without cars, without houses, without economic resources, without all the social capital to draw on, are now forced to live in difficult conditions on isolated social islands and even lose their place of refuge, while the sick, the elderly, the disabled and even the network of relatives are temporarily unable to rely on.
”。
"
中国基层治理制度的演变，本身就与控制人口流动紧密相关。
The evolution of the system of grass-roots governance in China is closely related to the control of population flow.
计划经济时期，国家作为唯一的管理主体，凭借“特殊公共权力”控制和支配整个社会，通过单位对职工、通过街居体系对社会闲散人员、优抚对象等进行管理。
During the planned economy period, the state, as the sole administrative subject, controlled and controlled the whole society by means of "special public power," and administered the idle people and the favored objects through the unit-to-worker and neighbourhood system.
。
.
但随着单位制的解体以及市场化的加速，人口从单位和土地中解放出来，大量农村人口流入城市，职业流动性变得更强，“非国家空间”开始出现。
But with the disintegration of the unit system and the acceleration of marketization, the liberation of the population from units and land, massive rural-urban migration, greater occupational mobility, and the emergence of "non-State space."
社区制的根本，是为了替代原本单位的社会管理职能。
The foundation of community system is to replace the social management function of the original unit.
居住空间成为新的控制单元。
The living space became the new control unit.
【3】。
[3].
而为了适应城市化持续扩张带来的、更快速和复杂的人口流动，从 2000 年初开始，以“网格化”为名的一种新的管理体系开始出现。
Since the beginning of 2000, a new management system has emerged in the name of "grid" in response to the more rapid and complex population movements brought about by the continued expansion of urbanization.
2005 年，建设部选中北京、上海、南京和武汉等 10 座城市进行首批“网格化”试点，并范围逐步辐射扩散。
In 2005, the Ministry of Construction selected 10 cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Nanjing and Wuhan, for the first batch of "grid" pilots, with a gradual spread of radiation.
。
.
与社区居委会的民选原则不同，网格员通常是街道通过对社会招募产生；也有一部分由原本的社区委员兼任，一部分是临时调派的志愿者。
Unlike the popularly elected principles of neighbourhood committees, grids are usually formed in the streets through social recruitment; others are part of the original community councillors and some are volunteers on temporary assignment.
二者的工作方式、工作侧重也不同。
The two work in a different way, focus on different work.
如果说居委会是借由人情社会、通过邻里的关系网进行管理，网格化则是在“互相不熟”的社区内，更强调通过信息化的方式，对号入座地将监督和服务的范围下沉到个人。
If neighborhood committees are managed through a network of human relationships and neighborhoods, gridlock is in "unfamiliar" communities, with a greater emphasis on information-based ways to subside supervision and services to individuals.
。
.
《瞭望东方周刊》曾引述广州市长陈建华，如果每位网格员负责 200 个家庭，他就能够在一个月内大致记得所管辖的人员，在 3 个月内了解每个家庭的基本信息。
Guangzhou Mayor Chen Jianhua was quoted by Orient Weekly as saying that if each grid worker were responsible for 200 families, he would be able to remember roughly the people under his jurisdiction within a month and get basic information about each family within three months.
【4】更加细化了的基层治理单位，随时准备接替已经自然形成的社会保护网络。
More refined grass-roots governance units are ready to take over the social protection networks that have evolved naturally.
这种部署在此次疫情中，得到了显著推进和运用。
This deployment in the current epidemic, has been significantly promoted and used.
。
.
据《南方日报》报道，广东目前有近 18 万名网格员，近 14 万个网格。
Guangdong has nearly 180,000 grid workers and nearly 140,000 grids, Southern Daily reported.
以江门为例，五级“网格化”疫情防控体系由市(区)、镇(街)、村(居)、网格、楼栋(自然村)组成，以此进行所有密切接触者、重点疫情地区来粤人员、全省发热门诊重点人群的排查。
Taking Jiangmen as an example, the five-level "grid" epidemic prevention and control system consists of cities (districts), towns (streets), villages (residential), grids, buildings (natural villages), so that all close contacts, key epidemic areas to Guangdong personnel, the province's fever clinic key population screening.
各地使用这种方式追踪离开武汉的人员，而武汉市内则对“四类人员（ 确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者）”集中收治的排查也采取这种手段。
This method is used everywhere to track people leaving Wuhan, while in Wuhan it is used in centralized treatment screening of "four categories of people (confirmed patients, suspected patients, close contacts who cannot rule out possible cases of infection, confirmed patients)."
【5】。
[5].
“在疫情之前，网格员这个概念在社区工作里边儿是很淡的。
"Before the outbreak, the concept of a grid worker was marginal in community work.
”李想的父亲退休前是武汉的一名社区主任，结合之前父亲的工作经历，以及近期与社区的接触，他介绍了网格员目前在武汉的具体工作内容。
Li's father, who retired as a community director in Wuhan, combined with his father's previous work experience and recent contacts with the community, introduced the grid man's current work in Wuhan.
。
.
“现在主要是跟防疫工作相关的一些，民计民生、人员管控，以及后勤补给。
"Now it is mainly related to epidemic prevention, people's livelihood, personnel control, and logistics supply.
一般看社区的大小，每个小区会配发一到两名、两到三名，甚至是一个小组的网格员。
Generally, depending on the size of the community, each cell will be assigned one or two, two or three, or even a team of grid members.
现在政府要求的是，食品，肉类、蔬菜啊，是要由网格员去代购，去联系超市或者是卖场去代购。
What the government is asking for is that food, meat and vegetables be purchased by a grid agent, by contacting a supermarket or a store.
因为现在不管是超市也好，所有的卖场、药店也好，就这几天刚刚执行的，都不针对个人售卖了。
Because no matter whether it is a supermarket, all the stores, pharmacies, just implemented these days, are not targeted at individuals to sell.
一个是怕你倒买倒卖，也是为了减少人员出行，就让网格员代理这些事，所以他们就变得很忙。
One is that you're afraid to buy and sell, and to reduce travel, let the grid man act for you, so they get busy.
”。
"
然而，居委会、网格员本身并不拥有足够的资源去应对突发情况。
However, neighborhood committees, grid workers themselves do not have sufficient resources to respond to emergencies.
疫情突然到来，政策不断变化，使得这些基层工作人员措手不及，工作量陡增。
The sudden onset of the epidemic and changing policies caught these staff at the grass-roots level off guard and resulted in a surge in workload.
在过去的 20 多天内，他们基本上都在连续不断地加班。
For more than 20 days, they have been working almost continuously overtime.
。
.
在疫情严重的武汉，社区的职责更是几经转换：从 2 月 10 日开始，要像其他城市一样落实小区封闭式管理、限制居民进出；2 月初，在防控政策逐渐清晰后，以“清零”为目的的地毯式排查，压力也直接压到社区组织身上，上级对他们的要求是“发现病人没被收治，就要问责”。
In Wuhan, where the epidemic is severe, the responsibility of the community has shifted several times: from February 10 onwards, the implementation of closed community management, like other cities, access restrictions; in early February, after the control policy gradually clear, with the aim of "clean up," the pressure on community organizations, superiors asked them to "find patients not admitted, accountability.
【6】。
[6].
“站到一线”的社区工作者并非像医生一样可以救治患者。
"Standing on the front lines" of community workers is not the same as doctors can treat patients.
面对送治患者、生活出行、处理尸体的诉求，他们可能甚至没有权力调配车辆、手头也没有医院床位的名额，能做的只有记录和层层上报。
They may not even have the power to deploy vehicles, nor do they have hospital beds on hand, and all they can do is keep records and report lines.
平常主要任务为宣传工作的基层，在并未提供足够资源，获得充分准备时间的情况下，担负起决定性的工作。
At the grass-roots level, where advocacy is often the main task, decisive work is undertaken without adequate resources and adequate preparation time.
。
.
在所有这些事务性的压力之外，每天他们都要应对来自市级区级纪委的检查。
In addition to all these transactional pressures, they have to deal with daily inspections from municipal disciplinary committees.
王珊表示，“开会的时候，（纪委）笔都没拿出来一下，听听汇报就完了。
"When we had a meeting, we didn't take out the pen and listen to the debriefing," Wang said.
按理说，他们应该是来解决社区层面无法解决的问题。
They are supposed to solve problems that cannot be solved at the community level.
”。
"
以及填表的任务——来自各种部门不同系统的，标准各不相同的表格，“一天三、四个表，一个表要改七次。
And the task of filling out the forms - different standard forms from different systems in different departments - "three or four tables a day, seven times a day.
”除了疫情病例相关的报告，随着大量区级市级党员干部调至基层参与防疫工作，社区还被要求统一记录领导干部的“参与工作情况”。
In addition to reports of cases, communities have been asked to keep a unified record of the "participation" of leading cadres as a large number of district-level party officials have been transferred to the grassroots level to participate in epidemic prevention work.
王珊记得，那时候大家连转运的流程都还没理顺，各种不相干的填表任务就紧急下达下来，要求的时间也非常短，给原本就混乱的基层带来极大的工作负担。
Wang Shan remembers that at that time, even the transfer process is still not straightened out, a variety of unrelated filling in the urgent down, the time required is also very short, the already chaotic grass-roots impose a great deal of work.
。
.
她表示，这种行事风格一直以来都存在着，只是防疫工作将其凸显出来。
She said this style of action has always existed, but vaccination efforts to highlight it.
在生死面前，每一个小的问题、矛盾都会被放大，让人无法容忍和接受，甚至耽误到正常的防疫。
In the face of life and death, every small problem, every contradiction will be magnified, so that people can not tolerate and accept, even delay to normal immunization.
。
.
“各个口都想要展现自己做了什么，这就要靠表格。
"Each mouth wants to show what it has done, and that depends on the chart.
你填的表格给他，他再往上报，显得好像是他做了什么事情，但其实都是基层在做。
Give him the form you filled out, and he'll report back as if he's done something, but it's all done at the grass roots.
”到后来实在忙不过来，除了病人数据他们如实填写，其他的“就看着填呗”。
"Later they were really busy, except for the patient data, which they filled in truthfully.
。
.
上级在下达许多指令时并不考虑可行性，到了基层只能尽量往上靠。
When the superiors give many instructions, they do not consider the feasibility, at the grass-roots level can only rely on.
她谈及此前争议巨大的 99% 排查率【7】，“你想想武汉市 1000 万人，然后他要求的时间是多长呢？一个电话一分钟，一共才多少工作人员在打？”一些任务被含糊过去，比如打电话没人接也算排查过了，或是排查一人就算作全家覆盖。
"Think of the 10m people in Wuhan, and how long does it take him?" she said of the controversial 99% search rate. "How long does it take for him to ask?" Some tasks have been vaguely past, such as making a phone call without anyone answering the phone, or counting one person as covering the whole family.
她表示，“现在就是全面量体温的问题，我就觉得也不是很实际。
"It's a matter of taking full body temperature and I don't think it's very practical," she said.
”——自 2 月 17 日起，武汉又开始了一轮新的入户“大排查”。
Wuhan has started a new round of house searches since February 17.
。
.
复旦大学教授任远在接受新京报采访时表示：从长期发展的角度来看，要找到防治疫情的根本办法，找到与病毒共处的办法……而这个办法要能在高流动性和高人口密度的社会中运行良好。
From a long-term perspective, we need to find the fundamental way to fight the epidemic and find ways to live with the virus... and this approach needs to work well in highly mobile and densely populated societies, Ren Yuan, a professor at Fudan University, told the Beijing News.
靠长期停止流动性来“躲病毒”，并不符合现代社会运行的逻辑。
Long-term cessation of liquidity to "hide the virus" is not in line with the logic of modern society.
【8】。
[8].
只能依靠基层治理采取简单粗暴的行政手段，以阻碍人口流动来阻止疫情的蔓延，是社会整体疫情防治能力低下的体现。
We can only rely on grass-roots governance to use simple and brutal administrative means to prevent the movement of people to stop the spread of the epidemic, is a reflection of the overall social capacity to combat the epidemic.
武汉呈现出的状态只是严重疫情下最极端的情况，这类措施在其他城市也被广泛采用，并因此造成不同程度的影响。
Wuhan is the most extreme case of severe epidemic, and such measures have been widely adopted in other cities, resulting in varying degrees of impact.
。
.
杭州的社区对租户进出的政策变化就饱受争议。
A change in Hangzhou's community policy on tenants' access has been controversial.
杭州市政府在 2 月 4 日发布加强对承租人员的管控和及时报告的要求，随后又在 2 月 10 日强调“不能随意禁止租户进入小区”。
Hangzhou city government on February 4 issued a request to strengthen the control of tenants and timely reporting, and then on February 10 stressed that "tenants can not be arbitrarily barred access to the community."
尽管如此，每个小区在 2 月 10 日前后还是各有措施，自主回杭、没有政府审核过的复工证明的租客被拒绝进入小区，甚至不得不流浪街头的新闻多次出现。
Nevertheless, each neighbourhood has its own measures around February 10, and there are repeated reports that tenants returning to Hangzhou on their own, without a government-certified re-entry certificate, are denied access to the community, and even have to live on the streets.
【9】。
[9].
事实上，对内的难以作为，与对外的粗暴隔离，在某种程度上是一体两面的。
In fact, the difficult to do at home, and the external rough isolation, to some extent is one two sides.
社区所拥有的能力，和它被赋予的责任，并不对等，因此注定在疫情当中是一个尴尬的角色。
The capacity of the community, and the responsibilities it is given, is not equal and is destined to be an awkward part of the epidemic.
。
.
除此之外，其他隐性的人口控制手段仍在不断推陈出新。
In addition, other implicit means of population control continue to evolve.
微博用户@是如不是茹 2 月 16 日在#杭州封小区#话题下留言，“亲眼见证了一个小时一个政策，前一秒还排队写各种承诺书……后一秒一个负责人就接了电话大声喊‘最新通知除了重点疫区以外的，凭绿码都不用隔离和出入证了’”。
Weibo users @ if not Ru Feb 16 under the topic of "witnessed an hour a policy, the first second of a queue to write a variety of commitments... a person in charge of the phone shouted 'the latest notice except for the key epidemic areas, no isolation and no access card.
。
.
这是杭州于 2 月 11 日推出的“健康码”系统，由市民或返工返岗人员自行上网申报，关联个人行动的大数据，生成二维码，并对于人员分成“绿、红、黄“三色管理。
The "health code" system, launched in Hangzhou on February 11, allows citizens or workers returning from work to declare themselves on the Internet, link large numbers of personal movements, generate two-dimensional codes, and manage people in "green, red and yellow."
健康码的颜色不仅仅被用于自我提示，更被直接运用于对个人行动的限制和放行。
Health code color is not only used for self-prompting, but also used directly to restrict and release personal movement.
。
.
2 月 17 日起，杭州只允许认证为绿码的用户乘坐公共交通，也成为许多社区出入的凭证。
Since February 17, Hangzhou has allowed only green-code-certified users to travel on public transport, which has also become a sign of access for many communities.
一方面，模糊不定的评判标准让许多人感到困扰；对个人行动被大数据监控的隐忧，似乎也在一往无前的防疫推进中，被忽视了。
On the one hand, vague criteria for judging many people; concerns about the monitoring of individual actions by big data seem to have been ignored in the relentless advance of immunization.
目前，“健康码”系统已经在浙江省和上海市全覆盖，并预计将很快推出全国版。
The health code system is now fully operational in Zhejiang and Shanghai and is expected to be rolled out nationwide soon.
【10】。
[10].
（文内 王珊、李响、杨羳为化名）。
(WenNai Wang Shan, Li Xiang, Yang Zhen as a pseudonym).
【1】深圳对小区100%实行围合封闭式管理https://m.thepaper.cn/newsDetail_forward_5895976成都全市小区院落封闭管理https://www.yicai.com/news/100495395.html兰州：全市居民小区实施封闭式管理http://www.bjnews.com.cn/news/2020/02/08/686353.html【2】郦菁：官僚体系与公民社会，谁是肺炎危机的答案？https://theinitium.com/article/20200206-opinion-bureau-civil-society-which-is-solution/?utm_medium=copy【3】陈荣卓，《城市社区网格化管理区域实践研究》，中国社会科学出版社，2015【4】网格广州：人口从自由放任到防范管控http://finance.sina.com.cn/china/dfjj/20150126/101821396856.shtml【5】如何守好防疫“最后一米”？https://focus.scol.com.cn/zgsz/202002/57483354.html【6】艰难的“清零”http://weekly.caixin.com/2020-02-15/101515734.html【7】http://www.sohu.com/a/372108544_661528【8】任远：不要对人口流动污名化，病毒流动才是问题http://www.bjnews.com.cn/culture/2020/02/18/691134.html【9】“杭漂”尴尬：租户返城遇难题http://companies.caixin.com/2020-02-12/101514400.html【10】https://www.thepaper.cn/newsDetail_forward_6032875http://m.qnsb.com/index.php?&a=show&catid=153&id=105112。
2007-9-25 09: 20 http: / / www.theknews.com.cn / cn / 2020-02-12 / 101514745.html http: / / www.theme.sina.com.cn / 2020-02-12 / 101514745.html: http: / / www.theinitial.com / article / 20200206-civil-society-com.cn / news / 2020 / 02 / 08 / 686353.html
Previous Post Previous post: 2 月 18日的疫情新闻Next Post Next post: 2 月 19&20日的疫情新闻。
PREVENTIVE POST PREVENTIVE POST: News of the February 18 outbreak at Next Post Post: February 19 and 20.
所有的鱼,。
All the fish.
