床位的抉择：武汉肿瘤患者求医之困。
The choice of beds: Wuhan tumor patients to seek medical care.
杨媛 刘楚。
Yang Yuan Liu Chu.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
疫情严峻，武汉仍在不断征集新冠肺炎床位。
The epidemic is severe and Wuhan is still collecting beds for pneumonia in the new crown.
重压之下，各家医院肿瘤科「只出难进」，有患者被迫出院，通过网络发帖求助；也有患者试图寻求省外求医路，却被两边「入院接收单」与「通行证」夹在中间，难寻答案。
Under the pressure, the oncology departments of the hospitals were forced to leave the hospital and post their requests for help through the Internet. Others tried to seek medical treatment outside the province but were caught between the "admission slips" and the "pass" on both sides.
——同一个家庭里的新冠肺炎和恶性肿瘤一个月内，施宁经历了两次求助。
Within a month of the onset of pneumonia and malignant tumours in the same family, Shi Ning experienced two calls for help.
从为被新冠感染的父亲和自己求试剂盒和床位，到争取癌症末期的母亲不被赶出医院，只能浓缩为三个字：「太难了」。
From asking for kits and beds for fathers infected with the new crown, to getting mothers who are dying of cancer out of the hospital, it can be reduced to three words: "Too hard."
1 月 11 日，施宁从英国回到武汉，准备陪伴已是癌症末期的母亲度过最后一个春节。
On January 11, Scheinin returned to Wuhan from England to spend the last Spring Festival with his mother, who was already at the end of cancer.
母亲长期在武汉市中心医院后湖院区住院治疗，这是距离华南海鲜市场最近的一家三甲医院。
Her mother was hospitalized in the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital, the nearest Triple A hospital to South China Seafood Market.
1 月 26 日和 27 日，施宁和父亲先后在发热门诊被诊断为疑似感染，开始居家隔离治疗。
On January 26 and 27, Shi Ning and his father were diagnosed with a suspected infection at the fever clinic and began home-based isolation treatment.
交通管制后，施宁陪着父亲多次骑单车往返家与医院。
After traffic control, Shi Ning accompanied his father to and from home and hospital many times by bicycle.
正值疫情爆发高峰，发热门诊乌泱泱的人头，挂号、门诊、打针每道门都需花费数个小时排队，患者在等待中精疲力尽。
Resplendent heads in the heat clinic in the heat of the outbreak require hours of waiting in a queue for registration, outpatient care and injection.
连续高烧下， 67 岁的父亲病情进展迅速，施宁意识到，必须要尽快通过核酸检测确诊，再找到定点医院收治，父亲才有希望。
With his 67-year-old father progressing apace with a high fever, Shi realized he had to pass a nucleic acid test as soon as possible and find a designated hospital for treatment.
动用所有人脉、在社交平台发文求助、录视频寻求媒体报道…… 2 月 3 日和 5 日，父女俩终于先后在确诊后被金银潭医院收治。
Using all the contacts, sending messages on social platforms and recording videos for media coverage, the father and daughter were finally admitted to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on February 3 and 5.
2 月 9 日，施宁治愈出院，而入院即重症的父亲始终未见好转，医院开始打来电话，告知施宁做好心理准备。
On February 9, Shi Ning cured him and his father, who was hospitalized with serious illness, never recovered. The hospital began to call and told him to be ready mentally.
2 月 13 日，康复者血浆抗体疗法经媒体报道后，施宁萌生了用自己血浆救助父亲的念头。
Feb. 13, after the rehabilitation of plasma antibody treatment by the media, Shi Ning germinated with his own plasma to help his father.
次日，施宁成为武汉金银潭医院第一位自愿捐献血浆的新冠肺炎康复者。
The next day, Shi Ning became the first patient to voluntarily donate plasma from Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
没等到血浆制备完成， 2 月 15 日，施宁父亲经 ICU 抢救无效后去世。
Before the plasma was ready, Shi Ning's father died on Feb. 15 after an ICU rescue failed.
施宁金银潭医院捐献血浆画面和媒体报道截图来源：微博截图施宁记得那一天武汉刚下过雪，风雨交加，姑妈、表姐轮番打来电话，哭着让她改天再去医院处理父亲的后事。
Shining gold and silver pool hospital donated blood plasma screen and media coverage screenshot Source: Weibo screenshot Shi Ning remember that the day Wuhan had just fallen snow, rain and rain, aunt, cousin repeatedly called, crying to let her go to the hospital to deal with his father's affairs.
而隔天来自母亲医院的消息，成了压倒施宁精神的最后一根稻草。
The next day from the mother's hospital news, has become overwhelming the spirit of the last straw.
因后湖院区被征用为新冠肺炎定点医院， 1 月 28 日，施宁母亲经两次转出，最后在武汉市中心医院本部即南京路院区落脚。
Due to the requisition of the Houhu courtyard area as the new crown pneumonia hospital, on January 28, after two transfers, finally in Wuhan city central hospital headquarters, namely Nanjing Road courtyard area.
2 月 16 日，需靠营养针和镇痛剂维持生命的母亲再次被通知，因南京路院区也被征收床位，要求非新冠肺炎患者必须立即办理出院。
On 16 February, mothers who needed nutritional injections and analgesics were again informed that patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia had to be discharged immediately, as the Nanjing Road compound had also been requisitioned.
施宁家在一栋老居民楼的 6 楼，而母亲已经无法行走，在当下的武汉，她不知如何能将母亲安然地接回家，又如何在母亲离世后稳妥地将她送走。
The Scheinin family is on the sixth floor of an old residential building, and her mother is no longer able to walk. In Wuhan today, she does not know how to bring her home safely and safely after her mother's death.
武汉的一切都在给疫情让路，施宁对此理解，她和父亲也都曾是需要床位的那些人，但对母亲来说，一旦出院便意味着失去。
Everything in Wuhan is giving way to the epidemic, and Shi Ning understands that both she and her father were people who needed beds, but for the mother, being discharged meant losing.
「如果征收一个床位的代价是对同样重症的肿瘤患者生命置之不顾，是不是该去考虑更为平衡的解决方案呢？」2 月 19 日，施宁对「偶尔治愈」说，实际上目前仍留在医院的多是极其困难的患者，「原本过年前已经出院了一批，疫情爆发后护士也几轮劝说，毕竟留在医院容易交叉感染，能走的几乎都陆续出院了，像我妈妈这种是真的动不了。
"If the price of a bed is to ignore the lives of equally serious cancer patients, should we consider a more balanced solution?" Shi told The Occasional Healer on Feb. 19. "In fact, most of the patients are still in hospital.
」疫情之下医院「只出难进」王菁父亲便是年前出院的那一批癌症患者。
Under the epidemic, Wang Jing's father was the cancer patient who was discharged from the hospital a year ago.
2019 年 6 月，王菁 65 岁的父亲查出胃癌晚期，后于华中科技大学附属同济医院肿瘤科就医。
In June 2019, Wang Jing's 65-year-old father was diagnosed with advanced gastric cancer and treated by Tongji Hospital Oncology Department, affiliated with HUST.
经过胃全切、放疗、化疗后，父亲的病情暂时得到了控制。
After total gastrectomy, radiotherapy and chemotherapy, the father's condition was temporarily brought under control.
接着是定期随访、检查，「基本上一个月有 15 天的时间都是在医院度过的」。
This was followed by regular follow-up visits and inspections, "basically 15 days a month spent in the hospital."
2020 年 1 月 22 日，王菁为父亲办理了出院手续，准备回湖南省邵阳市洞口县的老家过年，车次出发时间是 1 月 23 号下午 4 点。
On January 22, 2020, Wang Jing completed the discharge formalities for his father, ready to return to Shaoyang City, Hunan Province Dongkou County home New Year, the departure time is January 23 4: 00 p.m.
而这天凌晨，武汉宣布将从 10 点开始「封城」。
In the early morning, Wuhan announced that it would close the city from 10 o'clock.
此后，王菁和母亲、儿子，连同病重的父亲，一同被滞留在武汉。
After this, Wang Jing and his mother and son were detained in Wuhan together with their sick father.
2 月 8 号，本该是王菁父亲新一轮化疗的日期。
Feb. 8 was supposed to be the date of Wang Jing's new round of chemotherapy.
她几乎打遍了武汉所有医院的电话，得到的回复大多是：医院被征用，肿瘤科室关闭，建议居家照护或赴湖北省外就医。
She made almost all the calls to Wuhan hospitals and received most of the replies: hospitals were requisitioned, oncology departments were closed, and home care or travel outside Hubei province was recommended.
日子一天天过去，对于恶性肿瘤患者家庭来说如坐针毡。
Days passed, and for the families of patients with malignant tumours, needles and needles.
周琴 7 岁的儿子患有恶性脑瘤， 2020 年 1 月 19 号，周琴带着儿子入住华中科技大学附属同济医院肿瘤科，开始了第六期的化疗。
Zhou Qin's seven-year-old son has a malignant brain tumor. On January 19, 2020, Zhou Qin took his son to the oncology department of Tongji Hospital, affiliated with Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
2 月 14 号，周琴接到主治医师的通知，说医院将停止一切放化疗。
On February 14, Zhou Qin was informed by his attending physician that the hospital would stop all radiation and chemotherapy.
孩子本是每隔 21 天接受一次化疗，而此时距离下一期的放疗，已过去 4 天。
The child was supposed to undergo chemotherapy every 21 days, four days after the next radiotherapy.
「如果不做放疗维持，我担心孩子的脑瘤会长回去，之前的治疗都白做了。
"Without radiotherapy, I'm worried that the child's brain tumor will grow back and the previous treatment will be in vain.
」 2 月 15 号，周琴对「偶尔治愈」表示。
On February 15, Zhou Qin expressed his "occasional cure."
「偶尔治愈」获悉， 2 月 13 日以来，武汉协和医院、同济医院等多名肿瘤患者临时中断治疗，并被迫办理出院。
"Occasionally cured" learned that since February 13, Wuhan Hsiao Wo Hospital, Tongji Hospital and other tumor patients temporarily interrupted treatment, and was forced to go out of the hospital.
2 月 13 日，多名肿瘤患者被紧急要求出院。
On 13 February, a number of tumour patients were urgently required to leave the hospital.
图源：微博求助贴截图在其背后，则是武汉需在 2 月 20 日完成总量 10 万张新冠肺炎床位的储备计划。
Source: The Weibo Help Desk screenshot behind it, Wuhan February 20 to complete a total of 100,000 beds for the new crown pneumonia reserve plan.
其中，负责收治重症患者的定点医院床位数定为 14000 张。
The number of beds in designated hospitals for the treatment of patients with severe illnesses was set at 14,000.
「偶尔治愈」获悉一份 2 月 14 日印发的新冠肺炎定点床位征用任务的紧急通知显示，要求在在 2 月 15 日前新征 3500 张床位，其中就包括武汉市中心医院本部（南京路院区）。
"Occasional Healing" was informed of an emergency notice issued on February 14 calling for 3,500 new beds by February 15, including the headquarters of Wuhan Central Hospital (Nanjing Road Campus).
据通知内容，南京路院区需紧急在 15 、16 日分批贡献出 700 张床位，也正是在此时，施宁母亲收到了紧急出院通知。
According to the notice, Nanjing Road courtyard area needs to donate 700 beds in batches on the 15th and 16th, and it was at this time that Shi Ning's mother received the urgent discharge notice.
新冠肺炎和恶性肿瘤如同一枚硬币的两面，而床位该如何抉择？2 月 17 日，国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉接受央视采访时说，武汉疫情持续时间比较长，由于防控措施没有及时到位，很多社区病例没有得到及时救治。
The duration of the epidemic in Wuhan is relatively long, and many community cases have not been treated in time because prevention and control measures have not been put in place in time, said Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Hospital Authority.
「重症病例从发病到住院平均 9.84 天，这 10 天错失治疗的最佳时机，等待过程中由轻症变重症。
"With an average of 9.84 days from onset to hospitalization, these 10 days are the best time to miss treatment while waiting for a mild case to become serious.
」焦雅辉的坦言得到诸多好评。
"Jiao received many good comments for his candid remarks.
从早期的居家隔离到如今的「应收尽收」，武汉疫情的防控出现了决策上的转变，所带来的影响不仅是家庭内部聚集性病例的增加，更是从轻症到重症患者的生存机会，甚至是非新冠肺炎肿瘤的抗癌命运。
From the early days of home isolation to today's "receivable", Wuhan control of the epidemic has changed decision-making, not only the increase in the number of cases of aggregation within the family, but also from mild to severe cases of survival, and even non-cancerous pneumonia tumor anti-cancer fate.
放疗做不了，周琴和孩子也被困在医院，寸步难行。
Radiotherapy can not be done, Zhou Qin and the children are also trapped in the hospital, unable to move.
关键是，如果现在出院，便不能再入院。
Crucially, if discharged now, they cannot be re-admitted.
同样的情况，也出现在湖北肿瘤医院。
The same is true of Hubei Oncology Hospital.
「住院的话，患者只能出、不能进，门诊我们只处理急诊。
"If hospitalized, the patient can only go out, can not enter, outpatient service we only deal with emergency.
」2 月 18 日，该院一名医生告诉「偶尔治愈」。
On February 18, a doctor at the hospital told him that "occasional cures" were possible.
「和外科急诊一样的道理，就是非得马上处理不可的危急情况，一般像放化疗和手术，能择期的择期，能暂停掉的暂停，现在武汉市所有的医院都面临这个问题。
"Like emergency surgery, emergency situations that have to be dealt with immediately, such as chemotherapy and surgery, can be chosen at a later date, can be suspended, and now all hospitals in Wuhan face this problem.
」针对未出院的患者可以进行支持性的治疗，「包括一些对症治疗，镇痛和营养支持，但放化疗做不了。
Supportive treatment is available for undischarged patients, "including symptomatic treatment, analgesia and nutritional support, but radiation and chemotherapy cannot."
」究其原因，该医生表示，「肿瘤患者的免疫力本来就低，放化疗后可能出现免疫抑制，这个时候，患者感染新冠病毒的风险非常高，一旦有一个患者感染，整个病区的患者都会有风险。
"Immunosuppression may occur after chemotherapy or radiation because of the already low immunity of cancer patients," the doctor said. "At this point, the risk of acquiring the new crown virus is very high, and if a patient becomes infected, all patients in the area are at risk.
」「我每天要接十几个电话，基本是患者家属。
"" I answer more than a dozen calls a day, mostly from family members.
但在公共卫生面前，单个患者不存在必须，风险太大了。
But when it comes to public health, there is no need for a single patient, and the risks are too great.
」他反复强调。
"he repeated.
而对于肿瘤患者及其家属来说，相比起医院所担心的风险，他们更愿意放大故事中希望的那个部分。
For oncologists and their families, however, they are more willing to amplify the part of the story that they want than the risks they fear.
公共卫生专家黄严忠此前发文称，目前武汉已采取了强有力的防控措施，但这些「事急从权」的超常规措施也有其副作用。
Public health expert Huang Yanzhong said earlier that Wuhan has taken strong measures to prevent and control, but these "emergency measures" extraordinary measures also have side effects.
「这些措施强调『毕其功于一役』、集中所有人力物力对付新冠病毒，从而导致忽视其他的公共卫生问题或影响到正常医疗卫生服务的提供。
"These measures emphasize" one size fits all "and focus all human and material resources on the new crown virus, leading to neglect of other public health issues or affecting the provision of regular health services.
」黄严忠认为，各级政府需要弱化战「疫」思维，将更多注意力放在改善民生和满足广大人民的健康需要上，在举国战「疫」与常规治疗间寻求动态平衡。
Mr Wong said governments at all levels needed to reduce their thinking about the epidemic, pay more attention to improving people's livelihood and meeting the health needs of the people, and seek a dynamic balance between the epidemic and conventional treatment.
定点医院收治落实成谜最早引起社会关注的非新冠病人难题是肾病患者的透析受阻，甚至出现了患者因透析延误最终死亡的极端案例被报道。
The problem of patients with non-new crowns brought to public attention was the obstruction of dialysis in patients with nephropathy and even extreme cases of patients dying from dialysis delays were reported.
2 月 4 号，湖北省卫生健康委员会公布了孕产妇、儿童、血液透析患者等特殊患者的的定点救治医院名单。
On February 4, the Hubei Provincial Health Committee announced the list of designated hospitals for special patients such as pregnant women, children and hemodialysis patients.
但恶性肿瘤患者未被提及。
Malignant tumours were not mentioned.
2 月 19 号之前，「偶尔治愈」致电多家医院咨询，均被告知，「无门诊、无床位，无法收。
Before February 19, "Occasional Healing" called a number of hospitals and was told that "there is no outpatient service, no beds, no collection."
」多方打听获悉，仅有武汉普仁医院仍在开展放、化疗。
"Multiple inquiry learned that only Wuhan Puren Hospital is still carrying out radiation, chemotherapy.
「我们科室分了一个病区，专门收肺炎患者，另外一个病区仍在收肿瘤患者，但具体看病人情况是否急需治疗，会考量治疗价值。
"Our department has a special section for pneumonia patients, and another area is still receiving cancer patients, but depending on whether the patient is in urgent need of treatment, the value of treatment will be considered.
」武汉普仁医院肿瘤科一名主任医师在电话中表示。
Wuhan Puren Hospital oncology department, a chief physician in the telephone said.
这名医生还表示，在卫健委没有要求的情况下，收与不收都顺其自然，「不像肾透析有定点收治医院，肿瘤患者这一块，武汉市卫健委没有做统一要求。
"Unlike kidney dialysis, which has a designated hospital for patients with tumours, the Wuhan Health Commission has not made a unified request," the doctor said.
」当被问道是否担心交叉感染新冠病毒，医生解释，「第一，针对新冠肺炎患者，我们有七八个病区全部在老楼，肿瘤患者在新楼，新楼和老楼是隔开了的；第二，收治前会为患者查血常规和胸部 CT，排除新冠疑似患者，家属也要监测体温；第三，放化疗方面，医护人员防护、整个工作流程的防护，包括医患的健康宣教、家属健康宣教工作，我们都在做。
When asked if they were worried about cross-infection with the new crown virus, the doctor explained, "First, we have seven or eight patient areas in the old building. We separate patients in the new building, the new building and the old building.
」无奈之下，周琴拜托亲属在微博上发了一条求助信息。
"But Zhou Qin asked his relatives to send a message of help on Weibo.
2 月 16 号 13 点 14 分，周琴的亲属发微博说，「因为呼声很高，政策下来，刚通知医院明天可以做放疗了。
On February 16 at 13: 14, the relatives of Zhou Qin Weibo said, "Because of the high voice, the policy has just informed the hospital that tomorrow can do radiotherapy.
」那条求助微博也随之删除。
The help tweet was deleted.
2 月 18 号，「偶尔治愈」联系到周琴，她表示，「孩子并没有做上化疗，上午说可以，下午又不行了。
On February 18, Zhou Qin was contacted for "occasional cures." She said, "The child did not receive chemotherapy. She said yes in the morning and not in the afternoon.
」据周琴所知，同济医院原本是打算恢复放化疗，但于 2 月 17 号晚接到政府通知，先进行大排查，排除新冠肺炎疑似患者，恢复与否，三天之后给答复。
Chow said Tongji Hospital had intended to resume chemotherapy, but was notified by the Government on the night of February 17 that a major screening would be conducted to remove the suspected cases of pneumonia and provide a response three days later.
另一个让人欣慰的消息是， 2 月 18 号，武汉普仁医院的肿瘤科主任也同意收治周琴的孩子。
On February 18, the head of the oncology unit at Wuhan Puren Hospital agreed to treat Zhou Qin's children.
一下子出现了两处希望，周琴欣然等待着。
Suddenly appeared two hopes, Zhou Qin gladly waited.
2 月 16 日晚间，在获悉施宁母亲的情况后，其武汉外国语学校校友通过豆瓣、微博等社交平台发出求助信息，引发了广泛关注。
On the evening of February 16, after learning about Shi Ning's mother, Wuhan foreign language school alumni sent messages of help through social platforms such as Douban and Weibo, drawing widespread attention.
「偶尔治愈」获悉，目前医院已不再催促患者出院。
"Occasionally cured" was informed that the hospital was no longer urging patients to leave the hospital.
但，网络求助贴诉求的变化显示，随着「应收尽收」的落实，矛盾或开始转移。
However, changes in the number of requests for web-based help posts indicate that, with the implementation of "receivable," conflicts or transfers begin.
2 月 19 日，一名原先负责申报新冠肺炎患者求助信息的志愿者告诉「偶尔治愈」，新冠求助线索明显下降，而她也开始将收到的非新冠信息往上申报。
On February 19, a volunteer who had been reporting new cases of pneumonia told "occasional cures" that there had been a marked drop in the new crown help cues and that she was beginning to report new information she had received.
好消息是：2 月 18 日夜间，武汉发布了非新冠肺炎特殊患者医疗救治医院名单，增加了恶性肿瘤（含恶性血液病）及慢性疾病救治医院一栏，包括：湖北省肿瘤医院、同济医院（本部）、协和医院（本部）、武汉大学人民医院（本部）、中部战区总医院及汉口院区、武汉市中心医院南京路院区、武汉市中医医院胜利街院区、武汉市普仁医院、武汉市第六医院。
The good news is that on the night of Feb. 18, Wuhan issued the list of hospitals for special treatment of patients with non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia, adding a section for malignant neoplasm, Tongji Hospital (headquarters), Concorde Hospital (headquarters), Wuhan University People's Hospital (headquarters), Wuhan Central Hospital, Nanjing Road Hospital, Wuhan TCM Hospital Shengjie Hospital, Wuhan City.
2 月 19 日，「偶尔治愈」致电咨询了上述 9 家医院多名工作人员后获悉，通知落实情况仍有待加速。
On 19 February, after consulting several staff members of the nine hospitals, the "Occasional Healing" telephone was informed that the implementation of the notification still needed to be accelerated.
截至 2 月 19 日晚间不完全统计的 9 家医院肿瘤科收治情况整理：杨媛 制图：傅平凡协和医院多名医生表示，因医院多个院区均被征收为新冠定点医院，无法再收治肿瘤患者。
As of the night of February 19, 9 hospitals were not fully accounted for in the oncology department: Yang Yuan mapping: Fu common concord hospital doctors said, because many hospital districts have been collected as the new crown designated hospital, can no longer treat cancer patients.
武汉市中心医院本部则表示已收到通知，但目前新冠病人尚未出院，即便是出院后也需要先进行消毒，具体收治时间无法确定。
Wuhan Central Hospital headquarters said it had received the notification, but the new crown patients have not been discharged from hospital, even after the need to disinfect, the details of the admission time can not be determined.
与周琴所言一致，同济医院表示，2 月 17 日-19 日武汉市所有医院在进行拉网式地筛查，排查出疑似新冠肺炎患者，所以放化疗暂时未开展，也还未收治肿瘤患者，预计在 2 月 20 号会正式开始收治，恢复放化疗。
In keeping with Zhou's statement, Tongji Hospital said chemotherapy and radiation therapy had not been carried out because all hospitals in Wuhan were screening for suspected cases of new crown pneumonia on February 17-19 and were expected to resume chemotherapy and treatment on February 20.
不过，为了防止交叉感染需要控制病房密度，原本 300 张床位算下来收治的总数不会超过 200 人。
To prevent cross-infection, however, room density needs to be controlled, so the 300 beds won't add up to more than 200.
即便如此，也并非所有肿瘤患者都能被收治，一些医生表示，疫情当下会倾向于收治病情进展相对快一些的，像淋巴瘤患者。
Even so, not all tumour sufferers can be treated, and some doctors say the epidemic now tends to treat patients who are progressing relatively quickly, like lymphoma patients.
对于可以口服化疗药物的患者，一般不建议住院。
Hospitalization is generally not recommended for patients with oral chemotherapy drugs.
办不下来的「通行证」「就算挨不过这 14 天，我也认了。
"Permits" that I couldn't get down "won't last 14 days, and I did.
」在拨打了无数电话遭拒后，王菁对「偶尔治愈」表示，「在武汉是一点希望都没有。
"There is no hope at all in Wuhan," Wang told "the occasional cure," after numerous calls were turned down.
」希望，是这个侨居武汉的家庭近 20 天来所苦苦寻找的，纵使已做了最坏的打算——父亲可能会在到达长沙后隔离的那 14 天中去世。
"Hopefully, the family living in Wuhan has been desperately seeking for the past 20 days, and even if the worst is planned, the father may die within 14 days of his arrival in Changsha.
对于癌症晚期的父亲来说，居家照护基本等于放弃治疗，王菁决定带父亲回湖南。
For late-stage cancer fathers, home care is tantamount to giving up treatment, Wang Jing decided to take his father back to Hunan.
湖南紧邻湖北，自驾出省，经京港澳高速，可一路直达。
Hunan Province is next to Hubei, driving out of the province, through the Beijing-Hong Kong-Macao Expressway, all the way.
但由于交通管制，所有离汉通道关闭，疫情防控指挥部发布的「通行证」是出省的唯一有效凭证。
However, due to traffic control, all the Han Channels closed, the disease control command issued a "pass" is the only valid certificate out of the province.
王菁向武汉市硚口区防疫指挥中心提出申请，却得知，开具通行证的前提，是接收医院先开具接收证明。
Wang Jing applied to the anti-epidemic command center of Zhengkou District of Wuhan, but was told that the prerequisite for issuing a laissez-passer is to receive a certificate from the hospital.
然而，王菁分别咨询了长沙湘雅医院、邵阳市人民医院、洞口县人民医院，均表示需要先对患者情况进行评估，并排除新冠肺炎，否则一律不开接收证明。
However, Wang Jing consulted with Changsha Xiangya Hospital, Shaoyang People's Hospital and Dongkou County People's Hospital respectively.
2 月 15 号，湘雅医院咨询热线向「偶尔治愈」证实，开具入院接收证明之前，需要患者做胸部 CT 和核酸检测，以排除新冠感染风险，而这些检查只能由患者亲自到本院做，外院的检查单一律不作数。
On February 15, the Xiangya Hospital consultation hotline confirmed to "Occasional Healing" that patients need a chest CT and nucleic acid test to exclude the risk of new crown infections before issuing admission certificates. These tests can only be done in person by the patient, and there are no checklists in the outer courtyard.
纵使硚口社区为王菁的父亲开具了一系列体温记录，也不能作为其未感染新冠肺炎的证据。
Even though the Zhangkou community wrote a series of temperature records for Wang Jing's father, it was no proof that he was not infected with New Crown Pneumonia.
2 月 18 号，「偶尔治愈」就此问题致电了武汉市硚口区防疫指挥中心，中心的工作人员表示，发放离汉通行证的前提是，须当地的政府开具接收证明。
On February 18, the "occasional cure" called the Zhengkou District Anti-epidemic Command Center in Zhengkou, Wuhan. The center's staff said that a certificate of acceptance from the local government was a prerequisite for issuing a Chinese-Han laissez-passer.
此证明属于政府函件，而医院开具的接收证明不能作数。
This certificate is a government letter and the hospital certificate of acceptance cannot be counted.
而对于是否有依据通行证出省就医的先例，工作人员表示，他们只负责告知这个流程，至于能否成功离汉，并未追踪。
As to whether there was a precedent for travel outside the province on the basis of a laissez-passer, staff indicated that they were only responsible for informing the process and that there was no tracking of successful departures.
一边要医院的接收证明才发通行证，另一边患者不到当地就无法开接收证明。
A pass is issued on the basis of a receipt certificate from the hospital; on the other side, the patient cannot issue a receipt certificate unless he or she is there.
夹在中间的王菁一家，找不到出路。
The King Jing family, sandwiched in the middle, could not find a way out.
截至 2 月 20 日，距离武汉「封城」之日已过去近 40 天，疫情尚未迎来明确的拐点，但对于更多一些非新冠肺炎患者来说，无论是在武汉市内找寻收医院收治，还是突破交通封锁省外求医，都仍是困难重重。
As of February 20, nearly 40 days after the Wuhan "closure" day, the epidemic has not yet ushered in a clear inflection point, but for many more patients with non-new crown pneumonia, whether seeking admission to hospitals in Wuhan or breaking through the traffic blockade to seek medical treatment outside the province.
（文中患者及家属施宁、王菁、周琴均为化名）（更多主笔好文，可点击阅读原文查看）作者：杨媛刘楚责编：刘楚封面图来源：站酷海洛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
(The patient and his family: Shi Ning, Wang Jing, and Zhou Qin are aliases). Our new book, Death and Death, publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cures to cure to illness, old age, and death - an occasional cure for illness, senility, and death.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
床位的抉择：武汉肿瘤患者求医之困。
The choice of beds: Wuhan tumor patients to seek medical care.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "床位的抉择：武汉肿瘤患者求医之困";。
var msg _ title = & quot; bedspace choice: & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; for Wuhan cancer patients.
var msg_desc = "等待还是「出逃」均是未解难题。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; whether to wait or to "run" is an open question.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
