白皮手册与绿皮手册：新冠肺炎诊断标准之变。
White Leather Manual and Green Leather Manual: Changes in Diagnostic Criteria for New Crown Pneumonia.
杨海。
Yang Hai.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月16日，湖北省武汉市，江汉区花楼街，雪后初晴，一名行人张开双臂享受阳光。
February 16, Wuhan City, Hubei Province, Jianghan District, after the first clear snow, a pedestrian open arms to enjoy the sun.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄作者杨海编辑 张国2019年最后一天，几位医疗专家受国家卫生健康委员会的派遣去了武汉。
Zhang Guoguo, editor of Zhongqing News, a trainee reporter on Zhongqing Yingbo, editor of Yang Guo.2019, several medical experts were sent to Wuhan by the National Health Council.
他们几乎都经历过2003年的非典型肺炎疫情，其中不少人都在那场大事件里令人印象深刻。
Almost all of them experienced the SARS epidemic in 2003, and many of them were very impressive in that event.
一种新的传染病在等着他们。
A new epidemic awaits them.
当天午后，武汉市卫健委发布了关于新冠肺炎疫情的第一份通报：当地发现了27例病毒性肺炎患者，与华南海鲜市场有关联。
That afternoon, Wuhan Health Commission issued its first report on the outbreak of pneumonia: 27 cases of viral pneumonia were found there, linked to the South China seafood market.
这种传染病最初被称为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”，直到1月8日，病原被认定为新型冠状病毒。
The infectious disease was initially called "viral pneumonia of unknown origin" until January 8, when the pathogen was identified as the new coronavirus.
人们对它的认识从完全无知开始，有一个逐渐深入的过程。
People's understanding of it begins with total ignorance, and there is a gradual process of development.
1月16日，国家卫健委发布了第一版“国家级”诊疗方案，制定了确诊标准。
On January 16, the State Health Commission issued the first edition of the "national" diagnosis and treatment programme, setting out the criteria for diagnosis.
在此之前，武汉作为疫源区，按照前期摸索出的标准来排查和治疗。
Before then, Wuhan as the source of the epidemic area, according to the standards groped out in the early investigation and treatment.
绿皮手册与白皮手册武汉市一家三甲医院的急诊科主任刘越（应受访人要求化名）告诉记者，元旦假期后，医院开了一次会，参会的是科室主任。
The Green Leather Manual and White Leather Manual Liu Yue, director of the emergency department of a three-A hospital in Wuhan, told reporters that after the New Year's holiday, the hospital held a meeting with department directors.
院领导向他们口头传达了一个“不明原因病毒性肺炎”的“上报标准”。
The hospital leadership conveyed to them a "reporting standard" for "unspecified viral pneumonia."
他清楚地记得，院领导拿的是一份“白色封皮的手册”。
He vividly remembers that the head of the hospital was carrying a "white cover manual."
刘越的同事、该院重症医学科主任井坤（化名）也表示，自己在同一场合听到了“上报标准”。
Liu Yue's colleague, Jing Kun (alias), director of the hospital's intensive care department, also said he had heard the "reporting standards" on the same occasion.
另一家三甲医院急诊科主任李夏（化名）也向记者证实，1月3日，所在医院召开了类似的会议。
Li Xia (not her real name), director of emergency department at another Sanjia hospital, also confirmed to reporters that a similar meeting had been held in his hospital on January 3.
“院领导要求这个上报标准只能通过面授、电话，或者微信语音传达。
"The Academy leadership has asked that this reporting standard be delivered only by face-to-face, by telephone or by microphone.
”李夏说。
"said Li Xia.
这几位医生所说的“上报标准”，指的是武汉市卫健委的《不明原因的病毒性肺炎入排标准》。
The "reporting standards" referred to by the doctors refer to the "Unexplained Standard for the Entry of Viral Pneumonia" of the Wuhan Health Commission.
病例达不到这个《入排标准》，就不必上报。
Cases that do not meet this entry criterion do not need to be reported.
一位知情人士向记者提供了这份《入排标准》。
A person familiar with the matter provided the entry criteria to reporters.
其中规定，患者“具备流行病学史和临床表现者”才能够纳入。
Patients "who have an epidemiological history and clinical manifestations" can only be included, it says.
其中，“流行病学史”包括4条，患者符合其中一条即可：1.2019年12月1日以来，长期在华南海鲜市场从事交易活动的商户、雇佣者和工作人员。
Among them, the "epidemiological history" consists of four items, one of which the patient fulfils: 1.2019 Since 1 December 2019, traders, employers and workers who have been trading in the South China seafood market for a long time.
2.2019年12月1日以来，发病前两周内曾在华南海鲜市场加工、售卖、宰杀、处理和搬运等工作三个小时以上的人员。
2.Personnel who have worked for more than three hours in processing, selling, slaughtering, handling and handling seafood markets in South China for more than two weeks prior to the onset of illness since 1 December 2019.
3.2019年12月1日以来，发病前两周内曾在华南海鲜市场有禽或野生动物明确接触史（触摸或1米以内近距离观看等）者。
3. Since 1 December 2019, there has been a history of explicit contact (touching or close viewing within 1 metre, etc.) of poultry or wildlife at the South China seafood market during the two weeks preceding the onset of the disease.
4.与符合病例定义者共同生活、居住、学习、陪护、同病房的人员或未采取有效防护措施的诊疗、护理的医务人员。
4. Medical personnel who live, reside, study, accompany, work in the same ward or who fail to take effective protective measures for diagnosis, treatment and care with those who meet the definition of a case.
至于 “临床表现”，也分4条：1.发热≥38℃。
As for the clinical manifestation, also divide into 4: 1. Fever is more than 38 ℃.
2.具有肺炎的影像学特征。
2. Imaging characteristics of pneumonia.
3.发病早期白细胞总数计数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少。
3. Number of leukocytes in early stage of onset is normal or decreased, or lymphocyte count is reduced.
4.经规范抗菌药物治疗3天，病情无明显改善或进行性加重。
4. After three days of standard antibacterial treatment, there was no significant improvement or progressive aggravation.
按照《入排标准》，不能明确诊断为其他疾病的病毒性肺炎患者，需要同时满足4条“临床表现”，再满足“流行病学史”4条之一，才会被纳入。
According to the Rank Criteria, viral pneumonia patients who cannot be clearly diagnosed with other diseases need to satisfy four "clinical manifestations" and then meet one of the four "epidemiological history" criteria in order to be included.
被纳入之后，患者需要做流感病毒、腺病毒等其他病毒性肺炎，支原体、衣原体肺炎，以及细菌性肺炎等的检测，“明确诊断为其他疾病的病例”，再排除。
After inclusion, patients were tested for influenza viruses, adenoviruses and other viral pneumonia, mycoplasma, chlamydia pneumonia, and bacterial pneumonia, "clearly diagnosed as a case of other diseases," and then excluded.
不明原因肺炎入排标准。
Unknown causes Pneumonia entry criteria.
制图/李强1月3日，武汉市卫健委的第二份疫情通报介绍，“疫情发生后，国家和省卫生健康委高度重视，派出工作组和专家组赴武汉市，指导当地开展疫情应对和处置工作”。
"After the outbreak of the epidemic, the state and provincial health committees attached great importance to it and sent teams of workers and experts to Wuhan city to guide local efforts to deal with and deal with the epidemic," Li said.
但是，中国青年报·中国青年网记者采访的国家卫健委专家组成员表示，他们并未制定这样的《入排标准》。
However, China Youth Daily China Youth Network reporters interviewed by the National Health Commission expert group members said they did not have such a "ranking standards."
“我从来没参与过《入排标准》的制定，国家卫健委一开始也不知道这个标准的存在。
"I have never been involved in the development of the Standard and the NHS was not aware of its existence in the first place.
”国家卫健委第一批专家组一位成员对记者说：“这个标准是武汉后来加进去的。
"This standard was added by Wuhan," a member of the nation's first health committee told reporters.
”这位专家说，他后来才见到了那本白色封皮的手册，《入排标准》是其中一部分。
The expert said he later saw the white-capped brochure, of which Entry Standards was a part.
第二批专家组一位成员向记者提供了一份绿色封皮的《不明原因的病毒性肺炎医疗救治工作手册》，印有“武汉市卫生健康委”字样。
A member of the second group of experts provided journalists with a green envelope entitled "Manual for Medical Treatment of Unexplained Viral Pneumonia," with the words "Wuhan Health Commission."
手册内容包含《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》《不明原因的病毒性肺炎集中救治工作要求》，以及涉及病原诊断标本采集、病例转运、尸体解剖等工作的9份文件。
The manual includes "Diagnosis and Treatment of Unexplained Viral Pneumonia (Trial)," "Requirements for Intensive Treatment of Unexplained Viral Pneumonia," and 9 documents concerning the collection of pathogenic diagnostic specimens, case transshipment, autopsy, etc.
这位专家组成员说，不同颜色封皮的两份手册，在认定标准上是有差别的。
The panellist said that the two manuals, covering different colours, differed in the identification criteria.
前述第一批专家组成员告诉记者，绿皮手册里《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》，由他们与湖北当地专家组共同制定，“日期大概在1月3日前后”。
The first group of experts told reporters that the Green Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme for Unknown Causes (Trial) in the Green Leather Manual was jointly developed by them and a local expert group from Hubei Province. "The date is around January 3."
按照绿皮手册里的诊疗方案，“病例定义”一项解释了哪些患者可以被确定为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎病例”。
According to the "Case Definition" section of the Green Leather Manual, the term "case definition" explains which patients can be identified as "unspecified viral pneumonia cases."
“定义”一共有4条标准，分别为：发热；具有肺炎的影像学特征；发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少；经规范抗菌治疗3天，病情无明显改善或进行性加重。
There are four criteria for the definition: fever; imaging features of pneumonia; normal or decreased leukocyte count or reduced lymphocyte count in the early stages of onset; and no significant improvement or progression of the disease after 3 days of standard antimicrobial treatment.
如果肺炎患者同时具备上述4条标准，且不能明确诊断为其他疾病，则可以被定义为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎（病例）”。
Pneumonia can be defined as "unspecified viral pneumonia" if the patient meets all four criteria and cannot be clearly diagnosed as another disease.
绿皮手册的标准中也提到“有武汉市华南市场暴露史或有类似病人接触史”，但并没有把这条标准作为必要条件，而是作为浮动条件——若病例符合该条标准，则只需满足前述4条标准里的前3条，即可定义为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”病例。
The criteria in the Green Leather Manual also refer to "a history of exposure to the South China market in Wuhan or a history of similar patient exposure," but not as a necessary condition, but as a floating condition - if the case meets the criteria, the first three of the four criteria can be defined as "unspecified viral pneumonia."
绿皮手册的《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》。
Green Leather Manual "Diagnosis and Treatment of Unexplained Viral Pneumonia (Trial)."
制图/李强武汉医生刘越、井坤、李夏都向记者表示，从未见过绿皮手册。
Drawing / Li Qiang Wuhan doctor Liu Yue, Jingkun, Li Xia Duo told reporters that they had never seen the green leather manual.
他们都认为，白皮手册的《入排标准》过于“苛刻”，不利于早发现、早确诊。
Both agree that the White Leather Manual's Entry Standards are too "harsh" for early detection and diagnosis.
记者注意到，白皮手册与绿皮手册目录唯一的区别，是多了这份《入排标准》。
Reporters noted that the only difference between the white leather manual and the green leather brochure catalogue is that the "Row Standard."
就手册版本问题，记者询问了武汉市卫健委，未获答复。
On the manual version of the question, the reporter asked Wuhan Health Commission, no response.
左图：绿皮手册的目录右图：白皮手册的目录 制图/李强“按照这样的标准，我们一个都报不上去”1月3日的医院会议结束后，井坤的重症医学科马上开辟出10多张隔离病床，用来收治不明原因的肺炎患者。
Left: Picture right of the Green Leather Manual: Catalog of the White Leather Manual / Li Qiang "By such standards, we can't report any of them." At the end of the hospital meeting on January 3, Jing Kun's intensive care department opened more than 10 separate beds for treating patients with unexplained pneumonia.
据他回忆，从第一位患者入住开始，不到3天时间就已经满床。
From the moment the first patient checked in, he recalls, he was in bed in less than three days.
井坤所在医院制定了一份《不明原因肺炎疑似病例院内报告及诊治流程》，在院内报告环节，没有把华南海鲜市场接触史作为必要条件。
The hospital of Jingkun has drawn up a "Hospital Report and Diagnosis Procedure for Suspected Cases of Unknown Pneumonia," which does not take the contact history of the seafood market in South China as a necessary condition.
“他们的临床表现太独特了，毫无疑问就是这个病。
"Their clinical manifestation is so unique that there is no doubt it is the disease.
”井坤态度坚定，他没有参照《入排标准》，而是自作主张把这十几例全部上报给了医务处和院感办。
He did not refer to "entry standards" but reported all of the dozen cases to the medical service and hospital for comment.
但是，这十几名病人没有一个被定义为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎病例”——没有一个完全符合《入排标准》。
But none of the dozen patients has been defined as an "unspecified viral pneumonia" - none of which fully meets the entry criteria.
“很多患者没有华南海鲜市场接触史，也有发烧不到38℃的，有没有经过规范抗菌治疗的。
"Many patients do not have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market, or fever less than 38 degrees Celsius, there is no standard anti-bacterial treatment.
”井坤说。
"said Jingkun.
他科室的医生休息室的墙上挂着一块屏幕，上面是这十几位病人的监控视频。
On the wall of the doctor's room in his office hung a screen with surveillance videos of dozens of patients.
通常情况下，医生都会用编号区别他们，因为他们太像了：大部分人都处在昏迷中，脖子上插着气管，有的人甚至上了ECMO（人工膜肺），躺在床上一动不动。
Typically, doctors tell them apart with numbers, because they're so much alike: most people are unconscious, have trachea stuck in their necks, and some even go to ECMO, lying in bed motionless.
他们的相似点还体现在肺部CT影像里，“白的，全是白的”。
They are similar to CT images of the lungs, "white, all white."
“就是这样的病人，也不符合那个《入排标准》。
"That's the kind of patient that doesn't meet the entry criteria.
”井坤提高了音量，随后沉默了几秒。
"Jingkun raised the volume, then remained silent for a few seconds.
武汉的很多医院执行了标准——据报道，华南海鲜市场附近的优抚医院，1月上旬发现医护人员和住院患者感染，但因为患者没有华南海鲜市场接触史，不符合诊断标准，没有上报。
Many hospitals in Wuhan have complied with the standard - catharsis hospital near the south China seafood market was reported to have infected medical staff and hospitalized patients in early January, but did not meet diagnostic criteria and was not reported because patients did not have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
井坤所在科室收治的病毒性肺炎患者，大部分都是从外院转来，还有些人发病后“已经在外面游荡了一个多星期”。
Most of the patients treated by Jingkun's department have been transferred from the outer hospital, while others have been "wandering outside for more than a week" since the onset of illness.
他无视“标准”上报病例的事情很快有了回响，是来自一位院领导的“严厉批评”，“嫌我们报太多”。
His disregard for the "standard" reporting of cases quickly reverberated in the form of "harsh criticism" from a hospital leader who "thought we were reporting too much."
后来，医院有资格做核酸检测后，他收治的这些病人，超过60%的检测结果都是阳性——确诊新冠肺炎。
Later, when the hospital qualified for nucleic acid tests, more than 60 percent of the patients he treated tested positive for pneumonia.
他告诉记者，剩下的阴性患者，有不少已经接近痊愈，同时还要考虑核酸检测出现假阴性因素——中国医学科学院院长王辰也曾指出，核酸检测试剂质量不稳定，造成很多假阴性。
He told reporters that many of the remaining negative patients were close to recovery, and that false-negative factors in nucleic acid testing had been considered - and Wang Chen, director of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, had pointed out that the unstable quality of nucleic acid testing reagents had resulted in many false negatives.
“按照这样的标准，我们一个都报不上去。
"By such standards we can't report any of them.
”井坤说。
"said Jingkun.
同样感到疑惑的还有李夏——所在医院的两个院区在1月1日开辟了发热门诊。
So did Li Xia, whose two hospital districts opened a fever clinic on January 1.
后来的统计数据显示，1月4日成为患者数量上的一个拐点。
Statistics later showed January 4th as an inflection point in the number of patients.
那天的发热病人多了起来，有102名，“是平时的好几倍”。
The number of febrile patients that day rose to 102, "several times the usual number."
“我们发热门诊太小，已经挤满了，只能把发热病人往急诊引流。
"Our fever clinic is too small, it's full and we have to take the feverish patients to the emergency.
”李夏说。
"said Li Xia.
到1月15日，一天就有261个发热病人涌进了医院的急诊。
By January 15 alone, 261 febrile patients had flooded into hospitals for emergency care.
这些多到“没地方坐”的发热病人，很难被报送至武汉的疾控部门。
The feverish patients, who are so numerous as to have no place to sit, are hard to report to Wuhan CDC.
“严格得不得了，根本没有一个符合（《入排标准》）的。
"It's so strict, there's not a single one that meets it.
”李夏告诉记者。
"Li Xia told reporters.
这位医生也曾就《入排标准》向医院领导提出过疑问，尤其是“为什么又要求患者必须有华南海鲜市场接触史”，但没有得到回应。
The doctor also asked hospital officials about "entry standards," in particular "why patients are required to have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market," but there was no response.
“我们所有的准备都不足。
"We are not prepared enough.
”李夏感叹，“传染病病房要三区两通道，病房间还要相隔一定距离，我们都做不到。
"The infectious disease ward is three blocks and two passages," Li lamented. "The sick rooms are still some distance apart and we can't do it.
”据武汉市卫健委通报，1月11日至1月15日之间，连续无新增病例。
Wuhan city health committee reported no new cases between January 11 and January 15.
2月18日，武汉市百步亭社区街头。
February 18, Wuhan City, Baibuting community street.
一排灯笼前的横幅上写着“不服从小区封闭管理的要严肃依法处理”。
The banners in front of a row of lanterns said "those who do not obey the closed management of the community should be handled seriously according to law."
中青报·中青网记者赵迪/摄中国疾控中心2月份完成的《新型冠状病毒肺炎流行病学特征分析》，回溯了截至2月11日中国内地报告的所有病例。
The Epidemiological Analysis of Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia, completed in February by China's CDC and Zhao Di, a reporter for the China Youth Daily, traces all reported cases in the mainland as of February 11.
以发病日统计，2019年12月31日前就有104人感染，15人死亡。
By the date of onset, 104 people were infected and 15 died by 31 December 2019.
在不同时间，武汉不同医院的医生都发现，发热患者突然多了起来。
At different times, doctors in different hospitals in Wuhan have found that fever sufferers have suddenly become more.
武汉市第五医院的吕小红对记者说，她曾建议所在医院开设发热门诊，1月6日起，医院接到了很多疑似病例。
Lu Xiaohong of Wuhan Fifth Hospital told reporters that she had advised her hospital to open a fever clinic, and since January 6, the hospital has received many suspected cases.
当地著名的武汉协和医院，不得不把感染科的整个一层楼，改造成呼吸道传染病隔离病区。
The famous Wuhan Concorde Hospital had to transform an entire floor of the infection department into an isolated respiratory tract infection area.
1月23日，武汉确定了第一批新冠肺炎定点医院。
On January 23, Wuhan confirmed the first batch of designated hospitals for new crowns pneumonia.
在此之前，众多无法被定义为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”或“新型冠状病毒性肺炎”的患者，各自前往医院就医，没有得到恰当的隔离。
Before then, many patients, who could not be defined as "viral pneumonia of unknown origin" or "new coronavirus pneumonia," went to the hospital separately and were not properly isolated.
国家卫健委第二批专家组成员、北京大学第一医院呼吸内科主任王广发1月8日到了武汉，他随后得知，当地一家医院2019年12月肺炎的发生率较往年同期增加了17%。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory medicine at Beijing University's No. 1 Hospital, a member of the second group of health experts, arrived in Wuhan on January 8 and later learned that the incidence of pneumonia in a local hospital in December 2019 had increased by 17 percent compared with the same period in previous years.
他在武汉工作期间感染了新冠病毒。
He contracted the new crown virus while working in Wuhan.
刘越管理的急诊科病房被征用为肺炎病人隔离病房前，他们没收到任何风险预警，“那时我们就戴普通的外科口罩，做常规的呼吸道防护”。
Before the emergency ward managed by Liu Yue was requisitioned as a isolation ward for pneumonia patients, they were not given any risk warning. "We then wore a normal surgical mask for routine respiratory protection."
“当时知道有肺炎这个事，但是没听说我们医院有（病人），官方公布的数据又一直没有增长，也（说）没有明显人传人，就没当回事。
"I knew about pneumonia at the time, but I didn't hear we had [patients] in the hospital, official figures didn't grow and there was no obvious human-to-human transmission," he said.
”刘越告诉记者。
"Liu told reporters.
“我们急诊科尚且这样，其他与传染病离得较远的科室就更大意了。
"Even so in our emergency department, other departments far away from infectious diseases are more negligent.
”1月20日，钟南山率领的国家卫健委高级别专家组在考察武汉后首次开记者会证实，武汉出现了人传人和医务人员感染情况。
On January 20, a high-level group of state health experts led by Zhong Nan Shan confirmed at the first press conference after visiting Wuhan that there had been human-to-human transmission and infection among medical personnel.
其中一位神经外科患者感染了14位医务人员。
One of the neurosurgical patients infected 14 medical personnel.
在此次疫情中，刘越也是被感染的医生之一。
Liu Yue was also one of the infected doctors in the outbreak.
他回忆自己唯一暴露的可能，是1月6日他们病房住进一名肺炎病人，他在那时没有得到任何有关危险的提示。
His only exposure, he recalls, was the presence of a pneumonia patient in his ward on January 6, when he received no hint of danger.
后来，他负责的16张病床，有一次被4个家庭占据，那时他才清楚地意识到“这个病，人传人”。
Later, he was responsible for 16 beds, once occupied by four families, when he clearly realized that "the disease, from person to person."
武汉市卫健委在1月11日的通报里提到，“切实做到早发现、早诊断、早隔离、早治疗，集中专家和资源全力救治。
"Early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation, early treatment and pooling of experts and resources are available," Wuhan Health Care Commission (WRC) said in a briefing on January 11.
”与国家卫健委反复提及的早发现、早报告、早隔离、早治疗“四早”原则略有不同，在这里，“早诊断”代替了“早报告”。
The principles of early detection, early reporting, early separation and early treatment were slightly different from those repeatedly mentioned by the National Fitness and Health Commission, where "early diagnosis" replaced "early reporting."
国家标准随着疫情进展几次更新与2003年SARS疫情不同，这一次，中国快速分离出病毒毒株，完成了基因测序，并向世界卫生组织分享了病毒序列，供全球共同研究应对之用。
National standards have been updated several times as the epidemic progresses Unlike the SARS epidemic in 2003, this time, China quickly isolated the virus strains, completed gene sequencing, and shared virus sequences with the World Health Organization for a common global response.
此举受到了世界卫生组织的赞赏。
This was appreciated by the World Health Organization.
1月8日，病原初步被认定为新型冠状病毒。
On January 8, the pathogen was initially identified as a new coronavirus.
同一天，第二批专家组到达武汉，承担的一项工作就是对《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》进行修订。
On the same day, a second group of experts arrived in Wuhan to undertake a revision of the "Pilot Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Unexplained Viral Pneumonia."
两天后，中国疾控中心研制出诊断试剂盒，新冠肺炎病毒可以通过试剂盒和RT-PCR技术检测。
Two days later, the China CDC developed a diagnostic kit, which can be tested with a kit and RT-PCR.
“我见到的是个绿皮手册，那时出了核酸检测，所以我们就加了一项‘确诊病例’标准，其他部分没有变化。
"What I saw was a green envelope, and it was nucleic acid testing, so we added a" confirmed case "standard and the rest remained unchanged.
”专家组一位成员告诉记者。
A member of the panel told reporters.
据这位专家说，很多天后，一位武汉医生给他打过电话，承认自己当时没对专家组说实话，明明感染了病毒，也没有承认。
According to the expert, a Wuhan doctor called him many days later and admitted that he had not told the Group the truth at the time and that he was clearly infected with the virus and did not admit it.
前述三名武汉医生向记者说，当时确实增加了“确诊病例”标准，只不过是在白皮手册基础上增加的，而不是绿皮手册。
The three Wuhan doctors told reporters that the number of "confirmed cases" did increase, but only on the basis of the white leather manual, not the green cover manual.
记者在《不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》“此次疫情的病例特点”一项中发现以下表述：“大多数收治病例有武汉市华南海鲜市场暴露史，部分病例呈现家庭聚集性发病特点，这些聚集性病例多具有该市场暴露史。
The following statement was found in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Unexplained Viral Pneumonia: "Case characteristics of the epidemic": "Most of the patients admitted to the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan City, some of the cases show the characteristics of family aggregation, these cases have a history of exposure to the market.
”“我们当时知道已有的病例里，有小范围聚集性发病，但是这些人都与华南海鲜市场有关联。
"We knew there were cases of small aggregations, but they were all associated with the South China seafood market.
”前述专家组成员说，专家组得出“有限人传人”的论断，是缘于他们在武汉得知的信息。
According to the previous expert group members, the expert group's assertion of "limited human-to-human transmission" stems from information they learned in Wuhan.
1月16日，国家卫健委发布第一版《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》。
On January 16, the State Fitness and Health Commission issued the first edition of the "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia (Trial)."
至此，武汉市的试行方案停止执行。
As a result, the pilot scheme in Wuhan was suspended.
这一天，在武汉市卫健委的通报里，多日“无新增病例”后，新增了4例。
This day, in Wuhan city health committee circular, many days "no new cases", four new cases.
国家卫健委第一版方案里，对“观察病例”（后改为“疑似病例”）的定义，“流行病学史”一项都是与“武汉”关联，而不是华南海鲜市场。
The definition of "observed cases" (later changed to "suspected cases") in the first edition of the National Fitness and Wellness Commission program links the term "epidemiological history" to "Wuhan," not the South China seafood market.
“临床表现”规定了“发热”，但没有具体体温标准。
"Clinical manifestations" prescribe "fever," but no specific body temperature standards.
此后，国家标准随着疫情进展，几次做过修改。
Since then, national standards have been revised several times as the epidemic progresses.
武汉大学中南医院医学影像科副主任张笑春曾提出，核酸检测不排除假阴性，建议将CT影像作为诊断方法。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of medical imaging department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, has suggested that false negative nucleic acid testing should not be ruled out. CT imaging is recommended as a diagnostic method.
后来的标准采纳了此类意见。
Subsequent standards have incorporated such views.
2月12日起，湖北地区的标准进一步放宽，首次将“临床诊断病例”纳入确诊病例，一天新增了14840例，临床诊断病例就有13332例。
Since February 12, the standard in Hubei Province has been further relaxed to include, for the first time, "clinical diagnosis cases," with 14,840 new cases a day and 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
国家卫健委副主任曾益新说，增加临床诊断病例，目的是便于患者早诊早治早隔离，接受规范化治疗，提高救治成功率。
Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Fitness and Health Commission, said that the aim of increasing the number of clinical diagnosis cases was to facilitate early diagnosis, early treatment and early isolation, receive standardized treatment, and improve the success rate of treatment.
他表示，“因为设立这个项目，病例数确实有提高，这真实反映了武汉的情况”。
"There has been a real increase in the number of cases due to the establishment of the project, which is a true reflection of the situation in Wuhan," he said.
2月19日，国家卫健委发布了第六版诊疗方案。
On 19 February, the National Board of Health issued the sixth edition of the programme.
在最新版本里，取消了湖北省和湖北省以外其他省份的区别，统一分为“疑似病例”和“确诊病例”两类。
In the latest edition, the differences between provinces other than Hubei and Hubei were abolished, and the two categories of unified "suspected cases" and "confirmed cases" were unified.
根据国家卫健委2月20日上午的通报，2月19日全天，武汉新增确诊病例615例，湖北另有4市新增13例，但由于10个市州对确诊病例中的原“临床诊断病例”进行核酸检测，将核酸检测结果为阴性的病例从确诊病例中核减，共订正核减279例，因此湖北公布的新增确诊病例为349例。
On Feb. 19, 615 new cases were confirmed in Wuhan and 13 new cases were added in four other cities in Hubei province. However, a total of 279 new confirmed cases were confirmed in Hubei province after negative nucleic acid tests were conducted in 10 cities and counties.
这是多日来，湖北单日新增病例首次回落到三位数——随着认识不断深入，国家标准不断改进，“应收尽收，应治尽治”的目标也日渐接近。
For the first time in many days, the number of new cases in Hubei dropped to three digits for the first time - and as awareness deepened and national standards improved, the goal of "receiving what should be collected and treating what should be done" came closer.
（记者王嘉兴对本文有贡献）（本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily, which started with the client and headline numbers of China Youth Daily and joined the Tree Program.
）中国青年报·中国青年网出品觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily China Youth Net products feel good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
白皮手册与绿皮手册：新冠肺炎诊断标准之变。
White Leather Manual and Green Leather Manual: Changes in Diagnostic Criteria for New Crown Pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "白皮手册与绿皮手册：新冠肺炎诊断标准之变";。
var msg _ title = & quot; White & amp; Green & amp; Leather Manual: & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "关键的“入排标准”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; key Row & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
