武汉一线医生眼中的困难：“最主要是供氧问题”。
Wuhan first-line doctors in the eyes of the difficulties: "the most important oxygen supply problems."
李在磊。
Li in Lei.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲刘大钺。
Yue Liu.
（采访对象供图/图）全文共2013字，阅读大约需要5分钟。
The full text of the interview will be in 2013 and will take about 5 minutes to read.
各地支援的物资已经是到了，一问，说这东西还有很多，但是找谁领，不知道，这个渠道不太通畅。
Local support of the material has arrived, a question, said that there are many things, but who to get, I do not know, this channel is not very smooth.
隔离病房是要真正隔离，现在是半开放。
The isolation ward is meant to be truly isolated and is now semi-open.
这个风险不单单是指治疗方面，有可能会有传播的问题。
The risk is not just in terms of treatment; there may be problems of transmission.
现在如果没有保安的话，公安部门能不能进驻到这8个定点医院？本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李在磊南方周末实习生 宋思静责任编辑 | 何海宁“现场情况比我们想象的更严峻一些。
If there were no security guards, could the public security department be stationed at the eight designated hospitals? This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
”2020年1月30日，刘大钺对南方周末记者说。
"On January 30, 2020, Liu Dayue told Southern Weekend reporter.
这位广东医疗队中山附一领队，是中山大学附属第一医院感染管理科主任医师，2003年曾参加过SARS疫情救治，是感染病管理领域的专家，目前在武汉定点的汉口医院救助。
The Guangdong Medical Team, Zhongshan Attached to a Team Leader, is the director of Infection Management Section of Zhongshan University First Hospital. In 2003, he participated in SARS treatment, is an expert in the field of infection control, and is now in Wuhan designated Hankou Hospital.
随着全国对武汉支援相继到位，武汉定点医院的物资一定程度上得到保障，医务人员人手大大加强，但是防疫形势依旧十分严峻。
With the national support to Wuhan successively in place, Wuhan Ding-point Hospital to a certain extent of material protection, medical personnel have been greatly strengthened, but the epidemic situation is still very serious.
刘大钺说，医院一线的情况十分困难，床位短缺、设备落后，最突出的问题是管理混乱，很容易造成病毒的二次传播。
Liu Yue said, the first line of the hospital situation is very difficult, bed shortage, backward equipment, the most prominent problem is the management of chaos, easy to cause secondary transmission of the virus.
1物资到达一线的渠道不太通畅南方周末：医院一线现在主要有哪些困难？刘大钺：实话实说，目前来讲，我们每天收治的病人数量还是比较多。
Large Yue Liu: To be honest, at present, we still receive a relatively large number of patients per day.
很多门诊的病人收不进来，因为病房有限。
Many out-patient patients can't get in because the wards are limited.
护士是4小时一班，医生6小时一班，但实际上（换班时间）都大大延迟，因为病人太多。
Nurses go on four-hour shifts and doctors go on six-hour shifts, but in practice there are considerable delays because there are too many patients.
现在就算是转院的话，最快也要2月3号——火神山医院建成是2月3号，雷神山医院是5号。
Now even if it is transferred to the hospital, the fastest February 3 - the completion of the fire Shenshan Hospital is February 3, Lei Shenshan Hospital is 5.
现场情况比我们想象的更严峻一些。
The situation on the ground is more serious than we thought.
也有一些好转，随着全国对武汉的支援，物资是到了不少。
There has also been some improvement, with the support of the whole country to Wuhan, the material is to a lot.
但是有个问题就是，发放到一线医务人员的渠道不是太通畅，可能程序比较“啰嗦”一点。
But one problem is that the channels to front-line medical personnel are not too smooth, and the program may be more "verbose."
比如，那天我们N95口罩只剩100个了，最多就够撑一天。
For example, we had only 100 N95 masks left that day, just enough for one day at most.
比如说护目眼镜，整个病房只有几十个，上完这一班就完了，就只能反复消洗（来使用）。
Eyeglasses, for example, the whole ward only a few dozen, after this class on the end, can only be repeated wash (to use).
（医院）赶快反映，有关官员来督办，当天就送来了1000个，第2天就送来了3000个。
As soon as possible, the officials concerned came to supervise the delivery of 1,000 on the same day and 3,000 on the second day.
这说明，各地支援的物资已经是到了，一问，说这东西还有很多，但是找谁领，不知道，这个渠道不通畅。
This shows that the support of the material has arrived everywhere, a question, said that there are many things, but who to get, do not know, this channel is not open.
这种日常供应的申报，我觉得可能存在问题。
I think there may be a problem with this routine supply filing.
刘大钺在整理医疗物资。
Yue Liu is arranging medical supplies.
（采访对象供图/图）南方周末：除了物资不通畅之外，医院的医疗状况究竟如何？刘大钺：通过接触的这几天，整个医疗的流程算是基本理顺了。
(picture / picture) Southern Weekend: What's the medical condition of the hospital besides the lack of good materials? Yue Liu: The whole process of medical treatment has been basically smoothed out in the past few days.
当时我们（指广东医疗队）接手70个病人，3个病危、52个病重，劳动强度比较大。
At that time, we took over 70 patients, three of whom were critically ill and 52 of whom were seriously ill.
把这个病区交给了广东医疗队，我们义无反顾、毫无怨言地接下来。
The sick area was handed over to the Guangdong medical team, and we went on without a word of complaint.
可是，如果从医学的专业角度去看，病房的设置比较混乱，病人和病区就是乱分。
However, if from the professional point of view of medicine, the setting up of the ward is chaotic, patients and the sick area is chaotic.
只能在现有的技术条件下慢慢理顺。
It can only be slowly smoothed out on the basis of existing technology.
大量病人和家属是混住，可以自由出入，现在再把陪护的家属撵出去，家属就很大意见，坚决不走。
A large number of patients and family members are mixed, free access, and now the accompanying family members are banished out, the family is very strong opinion, firmly stay.
从专业角度来看，应该是单人、单间，家属是不允许进去的。
From a professional point of view, should be a single, single room, family members are not allowed to enter.
现在它基本上都是3人间、4人间、6人间，还有7人间。
It is now basically three, four, six, and seven.
在目前的情况下，我们尽自己最大努力，按照现在的医疗流程，把它稍微理顺一些，2003年SARS那时候，硬件环境比这差多了，但是仍然能够管得好。
In the current situation, we're doing our best to sort it out a little bit in line with the current medical procedures. When SARS was introduced in 2003, the hardware environment was much worse, but it still managed well.
我觉得现在管理还是缺一些。
I think there's still some missing management.
至少门口要有人把守，要有人看护，不能什么人都能进出。
At least the entrance must be guarded, to be attended to, not to be accessible to all.
隔离病房是要真正隔离，现在是半开放。
The isolation ward is meant to be truly isolated and is now semi-open.
所以说，这个风险不单单是指治疗方面，有可能会有传播的问题。
So, the risk is not just in terms of treatment; there may be problems of transmission.
南方周末：核酸检测现在是不是还有一定的困难？刘大钺：现在还是市里在检。
Southern Weekend: Nucleic acid detection is not still certain difficulties? Large yue Liu: is still in the city in the inspection.
据我们现在了解的情况，还都是要送过去检测。
As far as we know now, it's all going to be tested.
采集样本送过去，出结果再送回来，这个周期很长，至少两天以上。
Samples are sent over, the results are sent back, and the cycle is long, at least two days.
广东在（1月）19号的时候就已经全省发文，有能力的医院就要开展（检测）。
Guangdong (January) in the 19th has been the province's communication, capable of the hospital to be launched (testing).
我们现在这家医院没有资质，它是二级医院，现在来了专家，都是有证的，希望能有一个快速审批渠道。
We do not have the qualifications of this hospital, it is a level II hospital, now the arrival of experts, are certified, hope that there can be a rapid approval channels.
基本仪器有的话，我们是有能力开展的，现在也在积极准备和申请。
We are capable of carrying out basic instruments, if any, and are now actively preparing and applying for them.
2担心出现群体性事件南方周末：现在主要的治疗方案是什么？现有条件下，治疗方案实施起来有哪些困难？刘大钺：实际上最主要还是供氧问题。
2 Fear of mass incidents Southern Weekend: What is the main treatment plan now? What are the difficulties in implementing the treatment plan under the present conditions? Yue Liu: In fact, the main problem is oxygen supply.
新型冠状病毒感染肺炎本来就没有特效药物，其实就是提高免疫力，“氧疗”或者用激素，再补充一些体力、能量。
The new coronavirus infection pneumonia does not have a specific drug, in fact, is to improve immunity, "oxygen therapy" or hormone, and some additional physical, energy.
目前这些都有较大问题。
At present, these have big problems.
比如说最简单的供氧，氧气供应上的话，整个（人体机能）慢慢就会改善，没有充足的氧气就会呼吸困难，最后可能是因为这个原因导致死亡。
For example, the simplest oxygen supply, oxygen supply, the entire (human body) will slowly improve, without adequate oxygen will be difficult to breathe, and may ultimately cause death.
“氧疗”非常关键，现在是供氧不足、管道老化，一个病人要用高流量的话，其他病人就吸不了了。
"Oxygen therapy" is crucial, it is not enough oxygen supply, pipe aging, a patient to use high-flow, other patients can not smoke.
还有一个问题，有的病人吸氧气，有的病人没有，这样会产生矛盾，说为什么这个病人能吸氧。
Another problem is that some patients suck oxygen, others do not, which can lead to contradictions as to why the patient is able to absorb oxygen.
现在这个条件造成的后果，第一是治疗不能保证，第二是潜在的风险非常高。
The first consequence of this condition is that treatment cannot be guaranteed, and the second is that the potential risk is very high.
现在最担心的就怕发生群体性事件，这个一旦发生就很可怕。
What worries me most now is the fear of mass events, which can be terrible if they happen.
我个人观点，这是一个很严重的问题，听说别的院区出现打医生的行为，我们这里也有言语威胁医生的情况。
In my personal opinion, this is a very serious problem, I heard that other hospital districts to hit doctors, we also have here language threat to doctors.
广东医疗队在会诊病人。
The Guangdong medical team is consulting patients.
（采访对象供图/图）南方周末：除了迫在眉睫的难题外，你对中长期救助有什么建议？刘大钺：感染科病房应该是专门的传染病医院布局，要按照隔离病房的要求来做。
Large Yue Liu: The infection ward should be a special layout of hospitals for infectious diseases, which should be done according to the requirements of the isolation ward.
即便同济医院也大部分是普通病房，本来就是开放的，家属都可以进。
Even Tongji Hospital, which is mostly an ordinary ward, is open to family members.
现在如果没有保安的话，公安部门能不能进驻到这8个定点医院？接下来，我们打算对二楼进行改造，以前隔离得太小了，要重新再隔，扩大隔离分区，因为大楼承重不能打掉，只能是扩大清洁区和缓冲区。
Now, if we don't have security, will the public security department be able to move into the eight designated hospitals? Next, we plan to renovate the second floor, which used to be isolated too little, and to expand the partitions because the building cannot be stripped of its load and can only be used to expand the cleaning area and buffer zone.
以前清洁区、缓冲区就那一点点。
Previously clean area, buffer zone that little bit.
清洁区和半污染区中间要有一个缓冲区，半污染区和污染区之间要有一个缓冲区，穿防护服是在清洁区和半污染之间的缓冲区，脱防护服是在污染区和半污染区之间的缓冲区。
There should be a buffer zone between the clean and semi-contaminated areas, a buffer zone between the semi-polluted and semi-contaminated areas, a buffer zone between the clean and semi-contaminated areas and a buffer zone between contaminated and semi-contaminated areas.
现在没有半污染区，脱穿是连在一起的，你说是不是有风险？所以就是说得把它扩大，弄出半污染区，尽可能地按标准才行。
Now there is no semi-polluted area, stripping is linked together, do you think there is a risk? So it has to be enlarged to create a semi-polluted area, as standard as possible.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线医生眼中的困难：“最主要是供氧问题”。
Wuhan first-line doctors in the eyes of the difficulties: "the most important oxygen supply problems."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉一线医生眼中的困难：“最主要是供氧问题”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
