疫苗设计新进展！新冠病毒S蛋白超清结构图绘制成功，但实用疫苗还需要更多时间。
New advances in vaccine design! New canopy virus S protein ultra-clear chart mapping success, but more time is needed for a functional vaccine.
张静。
Zhang Jing.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
昨日，Science 刊发了美国德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校 Jason McLellan 团队的一篇关于新冠病毒的最新论文。
Yesterday, Science published a recent paper on the new crown virus by the Jason McLellan team at the University of Texas at Austin.
该团队利用冷冻电镜技术解析出了新冠病毒 S 蛋白的超清结构。
The team analyzed the super-clear structure of the new canopy virus S protein by using cryoscopy.
这一成果对开发疫苗和抗病毒药物有重要意义。
This achievement is important for the development of vaccines and antiviral drugs.
“当我们得知这是一种冠状病毒时，我们觉得必须马上采取行动，”McLellan 说，“因为我们可能是最早获得冠状病毒结构的人之一。
"When we learned that it was a coronavirus, we felt we had to act immediately," McLellan said. "Because we were probably one of the first people to get the coronavirus structure.
我们确切知道要进行哪些突变，因为我们已经证明这些突变对其他一些冠状病毒也有效。
We know exactly what kind of mutations to perform, because we have shown that these mutations are also effective against some other coronavirus.
”图 | 新冠病毒 S 蛋白三聚体 3.5 埃的近原子分辨率结构（来源：论文）新冠病毒受体亲和力远高于 SARS因为新冠病毒与 SARS 病毒同属冠状病毒，且具有某些类似性，对这两种病毒的比较一直是科学家们研究的重点之一。
Comparison of the new crown virus S protein trimeric 3.5 Ag with near atomic resolution structure (source: paper) is significantly higher than SARS because the new crown virus shares the same coronavirus as the SARS virus and has some similarities, and comparisons between the two viruses have been a major focus of research.
自从 SARS 爆发以后，冠状病毒的分子生物学及其入侵机制等方面的研究众多。
Since the SARS outbreak, there have been many studies on the molecular biology of coronavirus and its invasion mechanism.
冠状病毒的后三分之一基因组主要编码结构蛋白，主要包括 S 蛋白(spike，S)、E 蛋白、M 蛋白和 N 蛋白。
The second third of the coronavirus genome is mainly encoded with structural proteins, mainly S protein (spike, S), E protein, M protein and N protein.
其中，S 蛋白主要通过与宿主细胞受体结合介导病毒的入侵，并决定病毒组织或宿主嗜性。
S proteins mediate virus invasion by binding to host cell receptors and determine viral tissue or host susceptibility.
所以对 S 蛋白的研究是解释病毒入侵过程、进行病毒防控和抗病毒药物研发的重中之重。
So the research of S protein is the most important to explain the process of virus invasion, virus control and antiviral drug development.
此前武汉病毒所石正丽团队研究证实了新型冠状病毒感染人体细胞的关键就在于 S 蛋白与 ACE2 蛋白的结合。
Previous research by Wuhan virus team Zhengli confirmed that the key to infection of human coronavirus is the binding of S protein to ACE2 protein.
图 | 2019-nCoV 的 S 蛋白和 SARS-CoV 的 S 蛋白 之间的结构对比（来源：论文）McLellan 团队研究人员利用冷冻电镜技术解析 S 蛋白后，利用表面等离子共振技术（SPR）分析了 S 蛋白与 ACE2 蛋白的亲和力。
Structural Comparison between S Protein in 2019-nCoV and S Protein in SARS-CoV (Source: Thesis) McLellan team analyzed S-protein affinity with ACE2 using surface plasma resonance (SPR) after using freeze-mirror technology to analyze S proteins.
结果发现，人体 ACE2 蛋白与新型冠状病毒 S 蛋白结合的亲和力，比与 SARS 病毒 S 蛋白结合的亲和力高 10 到 20 倍。
The results showed that the affinity between human ACE2 protein and the new coronavirus S protein was 10-20 times higher than that of the SARS virus S protein.
从传染能力来看，新冠病毒明显高于 SARS 病毒。
In terms of infectivity, the new crown virus is significantly higher than the SARS virus.
在前几日中国疾控中心发布的数据显示，新冠疾病的基本传染数（R0，即一个感染者平均感染其他人的人数）达 3.77，高于 SARS（0.85-3）。
According to data released by the China CDC the other day, the basic infectious number of new crown diseases (R0, the average number of infected people infecting others) was 3.77, higher than SARS (0.85-3).
图 | 新冠病毒（上）和 SARS 病毒（下）的 S 蛋白与 ACE2 的亲和力比较（来源：论文）这项研究证实了新冠病毒更容易进入人体细胞，但论文称还需要进一步研究来检验这种可能性。
Comparison of affinity between S protein and ACE2 in new crown viruses (top) and SARS virus (bottom) This study confirms that the new crown virus is more accessible to human cells, but the paper says further research is needed to test that possibility.
有专家在接受媒体采访时表示，病毒的传染性除了与进入细胞的难易程度有关之外，还与机体免疫力、病毒在细胞内的复制快慢等多种因素有关。
In an interview with the media, experts said the virus's infectivity is related to factors such as the body's immunity and the speed with which the virus replicates within cells, in addition to the ease with which cells enter cells.
因此，受体亲和力是 SARS 的 10 倍，并不意味着传染性也比 SARS 高 10 倍。
As a result, receptor affinity is 10 times greater than SARS, which does not mean that it is also 10 times more infectious.
下一步：利用蛋白分子作“探针”S 蛋白是新冠病毒感染机体的关键组分，也是研制新冠肺炎疫苗和抗体抑制剂的关键靶点。
Next step: Using protein molecules as "probes" S protein is a key component of the body of new crown virus infection and a key target for the development of new crown pneumonia vaccine and antibody inhibitors.
此前，在不清楚新冠病毒 S 蛋白结构的情况下，新冠疫苗的研发大多基于预测结构，或者与新冠病毒相近的 SARS 病毒的蛋白结构。
Previously, without knowing the structure of the new crown virus S protein, the vaccine was mostly based on predictive structures, or the protein structure of the SARS virus, which is close to the new crown virus.
了解新冠蛋白结构之后，就可以更精准地进行后续工作了。
Knowing the structure of the new crown protein allows for more precise follow-up.
研究人员认为，他们得到的结构仅代表 S 蛋白的细胞外部分，但足以在人体内引发免疫反应，因此可以用于疫苗研发。
The researchers believe that the structure they get represents only the extracellular portion of the S protein, but is large enough to trigger an immune response in the body and thus be used in vaccine development.
图 | 新冠病毒（来源：NIAID-RML）威斯康星大学的蛋白质设计研究所一直处于蛋白质工程对抗疾病的前沿。
New Crown Virus (source: NIAID-RML) The Institute of Protein Design at the University of Wisconsin has been at the forefront of protein engineering to combat disease.
该研究所在了解蛋白质的 3D 结构之后，可以创建适合这些蛋白质的 “locks” and “keys” ，以此促进分子相互作用或者阻止相互作用。
"After understanding the 3D structure of proteins, the institute can create" locks "and" keys "that are attuned to these proteins, thereby facilitating molecular interactions or preventing them from interacting.
此前，该机构一直在试图寻找阻断新冠病毒的方法。
The agency had been trying to find a way to block the new crown virus.
他们正在开发一种可预防流感的“流感胶”（“Flu Glue” ），流感胶可以更好地与流感病毒外壳的蛋白质结合。
They are developing a "Flu Glue" to prevent flu, which binds better to the protein in the shell of the flu virus.
最新的蛋白质结构有助于他们创造出相近的微蛋白。
The latest protein structure helps them create similar microproteins.
此外，斯微生物、三叶草生物和 Moderna 的候选疫苗 mRNA-1273 也编码了 S 蛋白。
In addition, mRNA-1273, a candidate vaccine for microorganisms, clover organisms and Modelna, also encodes S proteins.
McLellan 团队的研究人员此前做了大量关于冠状病毒的研究，包括 SARS 病毒和 MERS 病毒，可谓经验丰富。
Researchers from the McLellan team have done a lot of research on coronavirus, including SARS and MERS.
不过该团队认为此次成功的关键在于低温电子显微镜（cryo-EM）的最新技术。
But the team says the key to the success is the latest cryo-EM technology.
接下来，他们计划利用蛋白分子对新冠病毒进行另一种攻击：利用分子作为“探针”，从感染了新型冠状病毒并成功康复的患者身上分离自然产生的抗体。
Next, they plan to use protein molecules to carry out another attack on the new coronavirus: using molecules as "probes" to isolate the naturally occurring antibodies from patients who have recovered from infection with the new coronavirus.
如果数量足够大，这些抗体可以帮助治疗暴露后不久的病毒感染。
If large enough, these antibodies can help treat infections that occur shortly after exposure.
实用疫苗还需要更多时间此篇论文在 2 月 17 日刚刚发布在预印版平台 bioRxiv 上，不到三天便在 Science 刊发，此过程通常需要几个月。
More time is needed for a functional vaccine The paper was released on February 17 on the pre-print platform bio Rxiv, and in less than three days in Science, a process that usually takes months.
论文大部分工作由该论文共同一作 Daniel Wrapp 和王年爽完成。
Most of the thesis is co-authored by Daniel Wrapp and Wang Nian Shuang.
该团队在拿到病毒基因组仅两周便设计出蛋白样本，之后用 12 天重建了 3D 原子尺度结构图并提交了手稿。
After designing a protein sample just two weeks after the team took possession of the virus genome, the team rebuilt the 3D atomic scale structure over 12 days and submitted the manuscript.
尽管论文发表过程一路绿灯，但疫苗的研发还需要一些基本的流程和时间，这个时间不会很短。
Despite the green light for the paper to be published, the development of a vaccine will require some basic processes and time, which will not be very short.
图 | 从左到右：Daniel Wrapp，Jason McLellan 和王年爽（来源：mclellanlab.org）此前，中国工程院院士、国家卫健委专家组成员李兰娟在接受央视采访时表示，新冠疫苗最快 3 个月就能拿出来。
From left to right: Daniel Wrapp, Jason McLellan and Wang Nian Shuang (source: mclellanlab.org) come three months at the earliest, Li Lanjuan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the National Fitness and Wellness Commission, told CCTV.
甲流疫苗单从获得疫苗株到批准上市就耗费了 87 天的时长，依照目前的技术和进展，3 个月时间够吗？尽管目前我们知道了 S 蛋白的结构，但是研发疫苗仍然需要重复很多遍来确定最合适的点，这需要重复很多步骤。
Based on current technology and progress, will three months be enough for the 87 days it took for the influenza A vaccine to go on the market? Although we now know the structure of S protein, the development of vaccines still needs to be repeated many times to determine the most appropriate point, which requires many steps to be repeated.
“成功开发预防性或处理公共卫生危机的疫苗十分困难。
"The successful development of vaccines to prevent or manage public health crises is difficult.
通常需要花上大量时间和金钱，”美国生物科技投资者 Brad Loncar 在接受 BBC 采访时说。
It usually takes a lot of time and money, "Brad Loncar, an American biotech investor, told the BBC.
在研制出疫苗样品之后，还需要进行复杂的工艺研发、动物实验、临床实验、申报审批等多个步骤，之后才能获得国家药监局的批准用于具体的预防和治疗环节。
Following the development of vaccine samples, complex process development, animal testing, clinical trials, declaration approval, etc., are required before approval can be obtained from the National Drug Control Administration for specific prevention and treatment components.
另外，能否在短期内完成大批量的疫苗生产也是一个问题。
The ability to produce large quantities of vaccines in the short term is also an issue.
目前，国内公开宣布进行新冠病毒疫苗研发的企业已经达到 19 家之多，主要包括重组蛋白疫苗、DNA 疫苗和 mRNA 疫苗。
So far, 19 companies have announced plans to develop vaccines for the new crown virus, including recombinant protein vaccines, DNA vaccines and mRNA vaccines.
其中由中科院牵头开展的重组蛋白疫苗项目已经进入到了动物实验阶段。
The recombinant protein vaccine project led by the Chinese Academy of Sciences has entered the animal experimental stage.
预计进入动物实验阶段的产品，最早将可能在 4 月中旬左右进入临床试验阶段。
It is expected that products entering the animal testing phase will enter clinical trials as early as mid-April at the earliest.
（图源：pharmaphorum）以下位国内外部分新冠疫苗研发动态汇编：2 月 19 日，赛诺菲全球疫苗事业部赛诺菲巴斯德宣布，与美国生物医学高级研究与开发局（BARDA）合作，利用先进的基因重组技术平台加速开发新冠病毒疫苗。
(Source: Pharmachorum): February 19, Sanofi-Pasteur, Sanofi-Global Vaccine, announced that it was working with the United States Bureau of Biomedical Advanced Research and Development (BARDA) to accelerate the development of a new crown virus vaccine using an advanced gene recombinant technology platform.
2 月 18 日，广东腺病毒载体疫苗预计 2 月 28 日前开展动物实验。
On February 18, the Guangdong adenovirus vector vaccine is expected to be tested on animals by February 28.
2 月 15 日，科技部中国生物技术发展中心主任张新民介绍，当前部分疫苗品种已经进入动物实验阶段；冠昊生物称疫苗项目还在研发，距离上临床至少还要一年时间；康希诺生物正在尝试 mRNA 疫苗研发。
On February 15, Zhang Xinmin, director of the China Biotechnology Development Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology, said some vaccine varieties had already entered the animal experimental stage. Guanho said the vaccine was still under development and was at least a year away from clinical use.
2 月 13 日，Inovio 声称已在美国圣地亚哥实验室的 DNA 药物平台开发研制出对抗新型冠状病毒的疫苗 INO-4800。
On February 13, Inovio claimed to have developed a vaccine against the new coronavirus, INO-4800, on the DNA drug platform at the San Diego Laboratories in the United States.
据称，该公司在获得病毒基因序列后的 3 小时内设计出了疫苗；步长制药旗下的浙江天元生物药业有限公司正开展新冠肺炎疫苗的研发。
The company is said to have designed the vaccine within three hours of acquiring the virus's genetic sequence, and its Zhejiang Tianyuan Biopharmaceutical Co., a unit of Takeo Pharmaceuticals, is developing a vaccine for new crown pneumonia.
2 月 11 日，伦敦帝国理工学院完成全球首次新冠肺炎疫苗动物测试，已接种给小鼠；世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在日内瓦表示，疫苗有望在 18 个月内准备就绪；强生宣布和 BARDA 合作开发新型冠状病毒疫苗。
On February 11, Imperial College London completed the world's first animal test of the vaccine for pneumonia, and has vaccinated mice. In Geneva, the director-general of the World Health Organization, Lindsay, said the vaccine was expected to be ready in 18 months.
2 月 10 日，Moderna 宣布针对新型冠状病毒的疫苗 mRNA-1273 已于 2 月 7 日完成第一批临床制造。
On February 10, Moderna announced that mRNA-1273, a vaccine against the new coronavirus, had completed its first clinical manufacture on February 7.
2 月 5 日，美国强生公司将利用其埃博拉疫苗平台——腺病毒载体平台研发新冠疫苗。
On February 5, Johnson & Johnson will use its Ebola vaccine platform, the adenovirus vector platform, to develop a new crown vaccine.
该疫苗从研发到量产至少需要 8 个月。
The vaccine will take at least eight months from development to mass production.
2 月 3 日，英国大药厂葛兰素史克（GlaxoSmithKline，GSK）宣布加入全球研发新冠疫苗行列。
On February 3, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), the UK's leading pharmaceutical company, announced it was joining the global effort to develop a new crown vaccine.
1 月 31 日，加拿大萨省大学开始研制新冠疫苗。
On 31 January, the University of Sasa, Canada, began developing a new crown vaccine.
1 月 29 日，澳大利亚昆士兰大学研究人员拟运用 “分子钳” 专利技术快速生产新冠疫苗，该技术能够增加病毒蛋白的稳定性；安徽龙科马生物制药有限公司与中国科学院微生物研究所签订协议，基于后者已取得的相关技术秘密和经验，龙科马有意受让并进行后续产业化开发新冠病毒重组蛋白亚单位疫苗。
Researchers at the University of Queensland, Australia, on January 29 proposed using patented molecular clamp technology to rapidly produce a new crown vaccine that would increase the stability of viral proteins. Anhui Longkoma Biopharmacology Co. Ltd. signed an agreement with the Institute of Microbiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
1 月 28 日，港大微生物学系宣称初步在喷鼻式流感疫苗基础上研发出新冠疫苗，未来可进行动物实验，明确疫苗的有效性和安全性，疫苗有望于 1 年内对人体展开临床测试；上海市东方医院转化医学平台与斯微生物合作推动新型冠状病毒 mRNA 疫苗研发。
On January 28, the Department of Microbiology announced the initial development of a new canonical vaccine based on the nasal flu vaccine. Animal trials will be conducted in the future to clarify the efficacy and safety of the vaccine. The vaccine is expected to be tested clinically in one year.
据称，这项技术可以在 40 天内完成大规模疫苗样品的生产和制备。
It is claimed that this technology could complete the production and preparation of large-scale vaccine samples within 40 days.
1 月 26 日，中国疾控中心病毒所所长许文波表示，该中心已启动新冠疫苗研发，目前已经成功分离病毒，正在筛选种子毒株。
On January 26, Xu Wenbo, director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), said the center had launched research and development of a new crown vaccine.
1 月 23 日，美国卫生官员和科研人员在《美国医学会杂志》宣布：自 SARS 出现以来，医学界对冠状病毒的研究及技术进步（mRNA 技术）可大幅缩短新冠疫苗开发的时间，新冠候选疫苗有望在 3 个月后展开人体临床试验。
Since SARS emerged on January 23, U.S. health officials and researchers announced in the Journal of the American Medical Association that medical research on coronavirus and advances in technology (mRNA) could significantly shorten the time it takes to develop a new crown vaccine, which is expected to start clinical trials in humans in three months.
-End-参考：https://science.sciencemag.org/content/early/2020/02/19/science.abb2507https://news.utexas.edu/2020/02/19/breakthrough-in-coronavirus-research-results-in-new-map-to-support-vaccine-design/http://journals.im.ac.cn/html/wswxtbcn/2017/10/tb17102452.htmhttps://www.sciencemag.org/news/2017/06/designer-protein-halts-fluhttps://www.geekwire.com/2020/scientists-create-atomic-scale-map-coronavirus-deadly-weapon-pointing-path-fighting/https://www.bbc.com/zhongwen/simp/science-51513859。
- End-reference: https: / / science.sciencemag.org / content / early / 2020 / 02 / 19 / science.abb2507https: / / www.news.uteint.edu / 2020 / 02 / 19 / breakthrough-in-coronavirus-research-in-new-map-to-support-vaccine-design / http: / / www.sciencwere.com / 2020 / 2020 / 02 / 19 /
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫苗设计新进展！新冠病毒S蛋白超清结构图绘制成功，但实用疫苗还需要更多时间。
New advances in vaccine design! New canopy virus S protein ultra-clear chart mapping success, but more time is needed for a functional vaccine.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫苗设计新进展！新冠病毒S蛋白超清结构图绘制成功，但实用疫苗还需要更多时间";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; vaccine design update! New crown virus S protein super-clear chart was successful, but functional vaccine needed more time and effort;;
var msg_desc = "昨日，Science 刊发了美国德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校 Jason McLellan 团队的一篇关于新冠病毒";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Yesterday, Science published a piece about New Crown Virus & quot; by Jason McLellan's team at the University of Texas at Austin.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
