对话美国流行病学家：未发现的新冠感染者对我们意味着什么？。
Conversation American Epidemiologist: What does undiscovered new infections mean to us?
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
在过去的一个月里，来自全世界的科学家每一天都在针对新型冠状病毒公开发表新的论文，这些论文涉及许多不同领域，包括病毒的传染性、传播途径、毒性、致病机理等等。
Over the past month, scientists from around the world have published new papers every day on the new coronavirus, covering many different areas, including its infectivity, route of transmission, virulence, pathogenesis, and so on.
新病毒对我们而言是一种未知，但每一天都有科学家提供新知，帮助我们去理解未知。
New viruses are unknown to us, but every day scientists provide new information that helps us understand the unknown.
《人物》记者在阅读论文的过程中，注意到了一个并不常见的研究方向——未被发现的感染病例（Undocumented Infection）。
In the course of reading the paper, People took note of an unusual area of research - Undiscovered Infections.
在SARS期间，未发现的感染病例并不多见，多数感染者有显而易见的症状，SARS的无症状感染率非常低。
During SARS, undetected infections were rare, most of the infected people had obvious symptoms, and the asymptomatic infection rate of SARS was very low.
从医学统计角度来说，无症状感染意味着这些病例是未经医学记录的、医学监控视野之外的潜在危机。
From a medical statistical point of view, asymptomatic infections mean that these cases are a potential crisis outside the scope of medical surveillance that is not medically recorded.
那么，在这次新冠病毒疫情中，未发现的感染病例究竟有多少？这些隐匿的传染意味着什么？为此，我们采访了哥伦比亚大学梅尔曼公共卫生学院的教授Jeffrey Shaman，他是一个传染病预测专家，专注研究传染病的传播路径以及传播预测，擅长利用数学模型进行传染病的流行暴发预测。
So how many undetected infections are there in this new outbreak? What do these hidden infections mean? To this end, we interviewed Jeffrey Shaman, a professor at Columbia University's Melman School of Public Health, who specializes in infectious disease transmission pathways and propagation predictions, and mathematical models for predicting outbreaks of infectious diseases.
每年，他的团队都会在美国发布实时流感预测，「像天气预报一样预测流感」，一方面提醒普通人接种疫苗、预防感染，另一方面也对政府提示风险，让政府有据地提前调配物资和医护人员，应对传染。
Every year, his team publishes real-time flu forecasts in the United States, "Predicting influenza like the weather forecast," both to remind ordinary people to vaccinate people against infection and to warn the government of the risks of allowing the government to deploy supplies and medical staff ahead of time to deal with the epidemic.
在这次的新冠病毒研究中，他还没有开始进行传染病预测的研究。
In this new canopy virus study, he has not yet begun to carry out infectious disease prediction research.
他告诉《人物》，在建立预测模型之前，更重要的关键问题是先搞清楚未发现的感染状况，他的团队已经发表了两篇与之相关论文。
He told PEOPLE that the more important key issue before establishing a predictive model is figuring out the status of undetected infections, and his team has published two related papers.
根据2月17日在医学论文预印平台medRxiv发表的最新研究，Shaman和团队推断在1月23日武汉封城之前，所有新冠病毒感染病例中有86%的感染是未被医学发现的。
According to a recent study published Feb. 17 on the medical paper preprint platform medRxiv, Shaman and the team concluded that 86% of all new crown infections were not medically discovered before the city was closed on January 23.
普通人面对未被发现的感染者，依然有52%被传染的风险。
The general population still faces a 52 per cent risk of infection in the face of undetected infections.
也正是因为大量存在的未被发现感染者，造成了新病毒在时间和空间上的快速传播。
It is also because of the large number of undetected infected people, resulting in the rapid spread of the new virus in time and space.
大量未被发现的感染病例导致全国整体传播风险升高了66.4%。
The large number of undetected infections increased the overall risk of transmission throughout the country by 66.4 per cent.
《人物》对Shaman的早期采访在2月10日进行，当时第二篇论文还在最后敏感性分析阶段，最后一次采访于2月19日进行，是基于最后结果进行的阐释。
People's early interviews with Shaman took place on 10 February, when the second paper was in the final sensitivity analysis phase and the last interview, on 19 February, was based on the interpretation of the final results.
需要指出的是，科学是人类对于未知的不断探索过程，尤其当我们的对手是陌生的新病毒，对它的理解也是一个不断更新的过程。
It is important to note that science is a continuous process of human exploration of the unknown, especially when our opponent is a stranger to the new virus, and its understanding is a constantly evolving process.
目前科学家对于病毒的理解尚处于探索阶段，我们正在了解病毒的新信息，但只要还在积极探索，我们还将了解更多。
Our understanding of the virus is still in its infancy, and we are learning new information about it, but we will learn more as long as we are actively exploring it.
以下是《人物》与流行病学家Jeffrey Shaman的对话。
Here's People's conversation with epidemiologist Jeffrey Shaman.
文｜李斐然编辑｜糖槭人物：现在正在做的研究是什么？Shaman：我特别关注的是那些未被发现的感染病例——它们究竟在这次传染病暴发中扮演了什么样的角色？它们是否加速了传染的流行？（如果是，它们）在多大程度上加速了传染？相比于那些有明确医学记录的确诊感染病例，这些未被发现的感染群体和这一次疫情暴发有多大的相关性，该如何进行科学界定？我需要解释一下，我为什么会关注这个群体。
Why am I paying special attention to undetected infections - what role did they play in the outbreak, and if so, to what extent did they accelerate the spread of the infection? How much did these undetected infections correlate with the outbreak of the disease? I need to explain why I care about this group.
通常情况下，人们被病毒感染之后，只有出现明显的症状，这个人才会意识到，我生病了，不舒服，得去看医生了。
Usually, when a person is infected with a virus, only if there are obvious symptoms will he realize that I am ill and sick and need to see a doctor.
到了医院，医生通过检测手段识别到这种病毒，在医学记录中留下这个病例，这叫做确诊病例（Documented Cases）。
At the hospital, doctors detect the virus through tests, leaving the case in the medical record, known as Documented Cases.
这样一来，像我这样的流行病学家才能得到数据，了解到这种病毒在人群当中的存在率。
That way, epidemiologists like me can get data on the prevalence of the virus in people.
然而，并不是每一种病毒感染都会造成明显的症状。
However, not every viral infection causes obvious symptoms.
我们在对很多呼吸道病毒进行监测的时候发现，很多时候病人虽然生病，但症状很轻，轻到并不影响他的日常生活，于是，相当大比例的感染者不会主动选择寻求医学帮助。
When we monitored many respiratory viruses, we found that in many cases the patient was ill, but the symptoms were so mild that they did not interfere with his daily life, so that a significant proportion of those infected did not voluntarily seek medical help.
这种状况在流感（Influenza）、副流行性感冒（Parainfluenza）、腺病毒（Adenovirus）、呼吸道合胞病毒（Respiratory syncytial virus）、鼻病毒（Rhinovirus，引发一般感冒的第一常见病毒）和冠状病毒（Coronavirus，引发一般感冒的第二常见病毒）造成的感染中都常常发生，（未发现的感染病例）是一种常见现象。
This condition is common in infections caused by influenza (Influenza), parainfluenza, adenovirus (Adenovirus), respiratory syncytial virus (Rhinovirus, the first common virus that causes the common cold) and coronavirus (Coronavirus, the second most common virus that causes the common cold) are common.
他们虽然生病，但是症状非常轻微，他们可能不会意识到自己生病了，也不会改变自己的行为习惯，依然会出门、见朋友、去工作。
They may not be aware of their illness, nor will they change their behavior. They may still go out, meet friends, or go to work.
这些轻症感染者存在于医学统计体系之外，但是如果他们依然具有传染性，还在持续不断造成他人感染，这会让问题变得异常棘手。
These mildly infected people exist outside the medical statistics system, but if they are still contagious and continue to infect others, it makes the problem very difficult.
根据我们的监测结果，对于（普通的）季节性冠状病毒感染（注：seasonal coronavirus infection，不是此次的新型冠状病毒，指的是引发人类普通感冒的常见病原体），只有4%的人会去医院，即便是流感，5个人里也只有一个人会去找医生看病。
According to our monitoring results, only 4% of people will go to the hospital and only one in five will seek medical attention, even if it is influenza, for the (common) seasonal coronavirus infection, not the new coronavirus, a common pathogen that causes a common human cold.
这意味着，大量呼吸道病毒感染是常规医学监测无法察觉到的。
This means that a large number of respiratory infections cannot be detected by routine medical surveillance.
在SARS期间，这个问题并不明显，因为根据数据统计，多数感染者有显而易见的症状，SARS的无症状感染率非常低。
During the SARS period, the problem was not obvious because, according to the statistics, most of the infected persons had obvious symptoms, and the asymptomatic infection rate of SARS was very low.
然而，很不幸的是，在这一次的新冠病毒肺炎疫情中，出现很多无症状感染者、轻症感染者，他们的身体状况没有坏到让人意识到自己需要去看医生，所以他们很可能是存在于统计体系之外的未发现感染。
Unfortunately, however, in this case, there are many asymptomatic and mild cases of infection, not so bad that people realize they need to see a doctor, so they are probably undetected outside the statistical system.
针对这一次的新病毒，到底有多少感染是未被发现的，这是我们努力想要搞清楚的问题。
For this new virus, how many infections are undetected is something we're trying to figure out.
人物：在最新发布的论文里，你的发现是什么？Shaman：我们推算出，在1月23日武汉封城之前，所有新冠病毒感染病例中有86%的感染是未被医学发现的。
Characters: What did you find in the newly released treatise Shaman: We calculated that 86 percent of all new crown infections were not medically discovered before the city was closed on January 23.
普通人面对未发现的感染者，依然有52%被传染的风险。
The general population still faces a 52 per cent risk of infection in the face of undetected infections.
也正是因为大量存在的未发现感染者，造成了新病毒在时间和空间上的快速传播。
It is also because of the large number of undetected infections, resulting in the rapid spread of the new virus in time and space.
大量未被发现的感染病例导致全国整体传播风险升高了66.4%。
The large number of undetected infections increased the overall risk of transmission throughout the country by 66.4 per cent.
我们推算的基础传染数R0值为2.23，与早期研究结果一致，不过我们发现，由于中国所采取的严格管控限制，这个数值有显著下降。
Our extrapolated primary infectious R0 value of 2.23 is consistent with earlier studies, although we found a significant decrease due to stringent regulatory restrictions in China.
人物：「武汉封城之前，86%的感染未被医学发现」，这个结论意味着什么？Shaman：我相信正是因为这些未被医学发现的感染病例，造成了这个病毒如此快速的传播。
Shaman: What does it mean to say that 86% of infections were not medically discovered before Wuhan was capped? Shaman: I believe it was these undetected infections that caused the virus to spread so quickly.
轻症感染者同样具有传染性，不断造成新的传染。
People with mild diseases are also infectious, causing new infections.
即便是出现明显症状的感染者，在症状出现之前也有可能造成传染。
Even those infected with obvious symptoms may become infected before symptoms develop.
我认为，这一切都意味着，这个病毒还处于「自然状态」，尽管今天中国采取了大量严格的管控措施，但这个病毒已经掌握了在人际间高效且快速传播的能力。
All this means, I think, that the virus is still "natural," and despite the stringent controls China has put in place today, the virus has acquired the ability to spread efficiently and rapidly from person to person.
现在我们应当特别留意新病毒在日本、新加坡、越南和韩国的情况，看报告感染病例数是否还会继续上升。
Now we should pay special attention to the new virus in Japan, Singapore, Vietnam and South Korea to see if the number of reported infections will continue to rise.
如果传染病在那里继续传播，它势必会成为一场全球大流行病。
If the epidemic continues to spread there, it is bound to become a global pandemic.
这次的研究发现，对于疫情的高度重视、严格的旅行管控措施，以及越来越多的个人防护措施应用，它们实现了新病毒传染的显著下降。
The study found that high priority for the outbreak, stringent travel controls, and an increasing number of personal protective measures (PPMs) applications have led to a significant decline in new virus infections.
对于中国来说，疾病控制卓有成效。
For China, disease control has been effective.
但是游戏终局是什么？中国在国家内消灭新病毒已是艰难挑战，可是即便完成了这项艰巨任务，一旦旅行限制放宽，人可以在不同国家间流动，这个病毒又会从其他国家再次输入中国，卷土重来。
But even after China's difficult task of eliminating new viruses from its territory, once travel restrictions are relaxed and people can move between countries, the virus will re-enter China from other countries and return.
此时此刻，中国正在施行的严格管控措施是争取时间——利用这个珍贵的时间窗口，研制疫苗，开发新的药物。
At this point, China is imposing strict controls to gain time - to use this precious window of time to develop vaccines and new drugs.
人物：《Science》的文章援引香港大学建模师Joseph Wu的观点，根据一个国际科学家团队的计算，武汉的旅行限制措施虽然被科学家称为人类历史上规模最大的隔离措施，但它仅将病毒在中国其他城市的传播时间推迟了2.91天。
According to an international team of scientists, Wuhan's travel restrictions, described by scientists as the largest isolation measure in human history, have only delayed transmission in other Chinese cities by 2.91 days, according to a team of international scientists.
从传染病预测专业来看，如何判断控制措施在多大程度上限制了病毒的传播，有没有办法可以计算出量化结果？Shaman：我们的第二篇论文其中一部分内容就在研究这个问题。
In terms of the profession of infectious disease prediction, how to judge the extent to which control measures limit the spread of the virus, and whether there is a way to calculate quantitative results? Shaman: Part of our second paper is devoted to this issue.
我们的确看到了管控措施对于病毒传播的影响，它延缓了一定时间之内病毒在人群中的传播，给了我们时间去研究对策。
We did see the impact of control measures on the spread of the virus, which slowed the spread of the virus among people for a certain period of time, giving us time to study the strategy.
目前的难题是，一旦管控措施放松，人们回到各自的生活中，学校重新开学，武汉人离开自己的家，人们回到他们之前的行为模式中，这个病毒回到自己的原始状态，很有可能会卷土重来，再度造成新的暴发。
The challenge is that once controls are relaxed, people return to their lives, schools reopen, Wuhan people leave their homes, and people return to their previous patterns of behaviour, the virus returns to its original state and is likely to return to its original state, again creating new outbreaks.
这是一个合理的担心，除非我们能够消灭这个病毒，但（消灭）这件事我认为非常不可能。
This is a legitimate concern unless we can eliminate the virus, but I think it is very unlikely.
我的看法之所以这样悲观，是因为这个病毒在中国国内的迅速传播，以及在世界其他国家的传播，都非常快。
I am so pessimistic because of the rapid spread of the virus in China and the rest of the world.
新病毒在人们还没注意到它的存在之前，就实现了如此高效的传播，这说明病毒传播中存在大量隐匿扩散和未发现的感染，导致它难以控制。
The new virus spreads so efficiently before people notice its existence, suggesting that it is difficult to control because of the large number of hidden and undetected infections that spread it.
人物：你说「无法消灭」是什么意思？我们没有办法像对付SARS那样，消灭这个新病毒吗？Shaman：大概率上不可能。
Characters: What do you mean "can't be wiped out"? Can't we eliminate this new virus as we did with SARS? Shaman: It's impossible.
事实上，我们并没有消灭SARS，它只是得到了充分抑制，不足以继续在人类宿主间传播。
In fact, we have not eliminated SARS, it has been sufficiently suppressed to continue to spread among human hosts.
新冠病毒已经传播到了世界上其他25个国家，很可能还会继续传播，我想它可能最终会成为一个季节性流行病毒，进入「人类尚未消灭的疾病」序列。
The virus has spread to 25 other countries around the world and is likely to continue to spread, and I think it may eventually become a seasonal epidemic, entering the "human disease" sequence.
人类有很多无法根除的传染病，像是SARS和MERS，它们都是原本不应该在人类之间传播的病毒。
Humans have many infectious diseases that cannot be eradicated, such as SARS and MERS, which are viruses that should not have spread among humans.
还有流感、麻疹、鼠疫、疟疾，这些传染病已经与人类共存超过80年了，我们并没有做到彻底消灭它们。
There is also influenza, measles, plague, malaria, which have existed with mankind for more than 80 years, and we have not achieved their total elimination.
到目前为止，人类在世界范围内成功根除的传染病只有天花。
So far, the only infectious disease successfully eradicated worldwide is smallpox.
这并不只是疫苗的问题，比如我们也有麻疹疫苗，但麻疹也并没有被彻底消灭。
It's not just the vaccine, we have measles vaccine, but measles has not been completely eliminated.
疫苗能够在多大程度上起作用，取决于接种效率。
The extent to which vaccines work depends on the efficiency of vaccination.
只有全世界人口有效接种，才有可能将病毒驱逐到灭绝，这是异常艰难的挑战。
Only effective vaccination of the world's population will make it possible to expel the virus to extinction, which is an extremely difficult challenge.
人物：你的预测模型目前研究的是武汉封城前的未发现感染。
PEOPLE: Your predictive model is currently looking at undetected infections in front of Wuhan Seguang City.
那么，在1月23日之后，未发现的感染病例状况情况如何？特别是最近，人们开始逐渐恢复往常的生活，开始工作，目前的未发现感染状况变得好一点了吗？Shaman：目前无法确定，尚且需要观察几周以内的新状况。
So what is the status of undetected cases of infection after Jan. 23Especially recently, people are beginning to gradually return to their normal lives and start working.
人物：你的传染病模型所推算的结果，可靠性有多少？Shaman：我们所使用的传染病数学模型，研究的是病原体的传播动力学模型。
Characters: What is the reliability of the results derived from your infectious disease modelShaman: The mathematical models of infectious diseases we use study the kinetic model of the pathogen.
这一次我们知道有记录的确诊病例数据，但我们不知道有多少人感染未被发现，不知道有多少人已经暴露在感染源面前，也不知道接下来还会有多少人有感染风险，这些都是我们看不到的情况。
This time we know the number of confirmed cases that have been recorded, but we do not know how many people have not been detected, how many people have been exposed to the source of infection and how many will be at risk of infection in the future, which we cannot see.
不过，将数学模型和统计数据结合，使用贝叶斯推断（注：Beyesian Inference，是推论统计的一种方法，它使用贝叶斯定理，在有更多证据及信息时，更新特定假设的概率），尽管数据有限，只要观察足够充分，我们依然能够推断出那些看不到的真相。
However, by combining mathematical models and statistics, using Bayesian inference (Note: Beyesian Inference is a method of extrapolating statistics that uses the Bayesian Theorem to update the probability of a particular hypothesis when more evidence and information are available) and, despite limited data, we can infer the unseen truth as long as the observations are sufficient.
这其实是我们进行传染病预测时使用的标准流程，在大多数传染病暴发期间，都会出现统计数据准确性问题，比如寨卡病毒和埃博拉病毒，数据上报问题非常大。
This is the standard process we use in forecasting infectious diseases, and statistical accuracy issues arise during most outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as Zika virus and Ebola, and data reporting is highly problematic.
数据一定存在噪音，我们的工作就是处理这些噪音，这也是我们不断做敏感性分析的原因，我们有一套成型的方法去验证结论是否可靠，给到数据一个置信区间。
There must be noise in the data, our job is to deal with it, and that's why we keep doing sensitivity analysis. We have a well-established way to verify the conclusions and give the data a confidence interval.
目前已经有很多关于新冠病毒的研究，你可以看到很多论文，研究R0的，研究传播途径的，研究潜伏期的，我们希望能将这些研究向前更推进一步，聚焦在一个我们认为至关重要、却很少研究的因素——未发现的感染病例，只有这样，我们才能真正去理解我们所采取的防疫措施，也才能预判我们到底能在多大程度上控制这个病毒的传播。
There have been a lot of studies on the new canopy virus, and you can see a lot of papers looking at R0, studying the pathways, studying latency. We hope to be able to take these studies one step further and focus on what we think is crucial, but rarely studied, if we are to really understand what we are doing to prevent the spread of the virus.
人物：这项研究的数据来自哪里？是不是可靠？Shaman：我们从中国的国家疾控中心获得每天的数据更新，国家级和省级的卫生负责人会给我们提供详尽的数据，跟我打交道的人都是中国人，我们使用的是来自中国的直接信息。
People: Where did the data come from? Is it reliable? Shaman: We get daily updates from China's National CDC, health officials at the national and provincial levels give us detailed data, the people I deal with are Chinese, we use direct information from China.
人物：在你此前的流感预测模型里，你的模型可以从各种渠道获得有效信息，特别是会使用到不同种类的数据源，不仅包括医院里的流感就诊信息，还可以导入人们在药店买治感冒药的购买记录、搜索「流感」或者流感症状的记录，还有社交媒体上对流感的谈论、人们的通勤模式等等，用它们来捕捉疾病的早期信号。
PEOPLE: In your previous flu prediction model, your model can capture effective information from a variety of sources, particularly different types of data sources, including not only hospital flu clinic information, but also records of people buying cold medications in pharmacies, searching for flu or flu symptoms, talking about flu on social media, people's commuting patterns, and so on, to catch early signs of disease.
这一次针对新病毒的预测模型，你也可以用这种方法吗？Shaman：很遗憾，这次并没有很多可用的数据。
Can you do the same with the new virus this time around? Shaman: Unfortunately, not a lot of data is available this time.
之前的方法之所以可行，是基于人们一般的网络使用习惯，从通常状况中捕捉异动，识别传染病的早期信号。
The previous approach was based on people's general Internet usage habits, capturing changes from the usual conditions and identifying early signs of infectious disease.
虽然现在社交媒体上有很多关于新病毒的信息，但是因为此时此刻人们处于恐慌状态，搜索习惯发生了改变，在社交媒体上关注和讨论的话题也集中于这个信息点，大量高关联度信息吞没了真实的个体疾病信号，现在很难从中捕捉有效信息。
While there is now a lot of information about new viruses on social media, it is difficult to capture valid information because people are in a state of panic, search habits have changed, and the topics of attention and discussion on social media focus on this point, with a lot of high-correlation information swallowing real individual disease signals.
我们现阶段只能依靠于医学监测体系的统计信息。
At this stage we can only rely on the statistical information of the medical monitoring system.
人物：在中国，很多人在期盼着夏天到来。
People: In China, many people are looking forward to the summer.
因为我们上一次对付SARS的记忆是，当天气变暖，气温升高，这种病毒就似乎逐渐消失了。
Because our last memory of dealing with SARS was that when the weather warmed and temperatures rose, the virus seemed to fade away.
这给了很多中国人一种信心，暖和的天气能够杀死冠状病毒。
This has given many Chinese the confidence that the warm weather can kill the coronavirus.
但是我也注意到，这个论断背后也有相互矛盾的事实，比如新型冠状病毒在热带国家也有传播案例报告。
But I also note that there are contradictory facts behind this assertion, such as the new coronavirus that has been reported in tropical countries.
你的研究领域除了传染病预测，还包括了环境因素对于传染病的影响。
In addition to infectious disease forecasting, your area of research also includes the environmental impact of infectious diseases.
你研究了很多传染病和气候之间的关系。
You have studied the relationship between many infectious diseases and climate.
以你作为流行病学家的角度来看，我们能指望夏天吗？Shaman：我觉得还是有可能的。
From your perspective as an epidemiologist, can we expect summerShaman: I think it's still possible.
现在流传的四种（人类常见）冠状病毒，分别叫做HKU1、NL63、OC43和HCoV229E（注：这四种人类冠状病毒是人类感冒的常见病原体，通常不会造成严重疾病），都是很花哨的名字。
The four common coronavirus (common in humans), known as HKU1, NL63, OC43 and HCoV229E, are fanciful names.
它们出现在热带之外的地方，在美国有，在中国除了中国最南方以外也有，它们也都是多发在冬天。
They occur outside the tropics, in the United States and in China, except in the southernmost part of China. They are also winter-prone.
虽然我们还没有搞明白造成这种特征的原因是什么，病毒到底对什么敏感，但是这些观察到的特征让它们看上去的确像是「winter bugs」（冬天的病毒）。
Although we have yet to understand what causes this trait, and what the virus is sensitive to, these observed features make it look like "winter viruses."
需要强调的是，这并不意味着人们在夏天就不会被感染了。
It should be emphasized that this does not mean that people are not infected in the summer.
人们还是会照样得病，但是人数比例会少很多。
People will still get sick, but in much smaller proportions.
现在的问题是，我们对这种新病毒不够了解，不知道它会怎么样。
The problem is, we don't know enough about this new virus, we don't know what it will be like.
它有可能跟其他冠状病毒一样，对热敏感，这样也许到了夏天，它会转移到南半球，在澳大利亚和南美洲的冬天流行。
It is likely to be as sensitive to heat as the other coronavirus, so that in summer it may move to the southern hemisphere, where it is popular in winters in Australia and South America.
但对于这一点我们没有足够的研究可以证明。
But we don't have enough research to prove this.
在这件事情上，知道病毒的基因序列帮不了我们。
In this case, knowing the genetic sequence of the virus won't help us.
我们需要在实验室环境下培养活病毒，试验它对不同温度和湿度的敏感性。
We need to develop a live virus in a laboratory environment and test its sensitivity to different temperatures and humidity.
理解病毒的敏感性是一件复杂的事，呼吸道疾病病毒对什么敏感？为什么具有季节周期性？答案很多，有时候取决于人群流动，有时候取决于人体免疫系统的工作水平，因为晒太阳的时候，人类的免疫系统工作效率更高（注：在抗生素发明之前，治疗结核病的其中一种方法就是晒太阳）。
Understanding the sensitivity of viruses is a complex matter, and what is the sensitivity of respiratory viruses? Why seasonal cycles? The answers are many, sometimes depending on how people move, and sometimes on how well the body's immune system works, because the immune system is more efficient when sunning (Note: Before antibiotics were invented, one of the ways to treat tuberculosis was by sunbathing).
当一个病毒离开宿主，它在特定的温度和湿度条件下存活几率如何，这需要大量研究，并不是一个能够很快回答的问题。
When a virus leaves its host, how likely it is to survive at a particular temperature and humidity requires a lot of research, not a question that can be answered quickly.
人物：我们需要多久知道答案？Shaman：我想没有任何人能够提前告诉我们答案。
Character: How long do we need to know the answer? Shaman: I don't think anyone can tell us in advance.
大概率上，最快回答这个问题的方法是，等到夏天吧。
The quickest way to answer this question, in high probability, is to wait until summer.
人物：我们现在每天都能看到关于病毒的新消息，看上去它似乎变狡猾了，又是能通过飞沫、接触、粪口传播，又是在核酸检测中连续多次阴性结果后突然阳性。
Characters: We now see new information about the virus every day, and it seems to be cunning again, able to spread through droplets, contacts, feces, and suddenly positive after successive negative results in nucleic acid testing.
病毒是变了吗？Shaman：病毒从一开始就是这个样子，它并不是变强了，至少没有证据足以证明它变强了。
Has the virus changed? Shaman: The virus has been like this since the beginning, and it's not getting any stronger, at least there's no evidence it's getting stronger.
我们会觉得它似乎变得狡猾，只是因为人们一开始没有认知到它的复杂。
It seems to us to have become cunning simply because people did not realize its complexity in the first place.
我们对它不了解的事情太多了。
We know too much about it.
我们还需要了解它的毒性、它的传播模式、如何治疗它，还有要研制疫苗。
We also need to understand its toxicity, its mode of transmission, how to treat it, and the development of a vaccine.
对我来说，我的主要研究方向是病毒在人群中如何传播，我努力搞清楚这个过程中的病毒特征。
For me, my main research focus is on how the virus spreads through the population, and I try to understand the virus signatures in the process.
而对于研究疫苗的科学家、研究病毒毒性的科学家，他们所要聚焦的方向又会不同。
For vaccine scientists, scientists who study viral virulence, the direction of their focus will be different.
正因为如此，全世界的科学家在此时也需要更多合作。
That is why scientists around the world also need more cooperation at this time.
人物：现在有人持一种观点是，新冠病毒的轻症甚至无症状患者比例高，有30%的人症状表现轻微，感觉就像一个稍微有点严重的流感。
People: Now there is a perception that 30 percent of people with mild or even asymptomatic New Crown Virus show mild symptoms and feel like a slightly more severe form of flu.
这种认知对吗？Shaman：我认为这有点道理。
Is that rightShaman: I think it makes a bit of sense.
基于我看到的状况，因为有足够多的轻症病例，我理解现在所发生的疫情，看上去很像一场非常糟糕的严重流感大流行。
Based on what I have seen, and with enough cases of mild illness, I understand that what is happening now looks like a very bad pandemic.
它对于老年人来说，这是一次沉重的打击，可能造成他们的健康负担，甚至是生命危机。
It is a severe blow for older persons and can create a health burden or even a life-threatening crisis for them.
传染病通常有两种命运，要么像SARS那样，退回到它的动物宿主中去，在人际间消失；要么像2009年的甲型H1N1流感大流行，病毒席卷全球，感染很多人，逐渐变异，最终成为和其他季节性冠状病毒类似的模式，每隔一段时间出现几次。
Infectious diseases usually have two fates, either returning to their animal hosts, as with SARS, and disappearing among humans; or, like the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in 2009, when the virus engulfs the globe, infecting many people, mutating into a pattern similar to that of other seasonal coronaviruses that occur several times over time.
这一次，我很怀疑我们是不是能够控制住它的传播，我会继续研究它，我很希望我是错的。
This time, I doubt if we can control the spread of it, I will continue to study it, I very much hope I am wrong.
人物：从预测模型上能看到拐点吗？Shaman：我认为这很难说。
Can you see the inflection point from the prediction modelShaman: I think it's hard to say.
从最近几天的数据来看，确诊病例数量在减少，这非常令人鼓舞，它说明管控措施很有可能发挥了作用，有效影响了病毒传播。
It is very encouraging to note from the data of recent days that the number of confirmed cases is decreasing, indicating that control measures are likely to have played a role in effectively influencing the spread of the virus.
但是，我们还需要多观察几周的状况，来判断这些措施是不是能够继续发挥作用。
But we still need to look at the situation for a few more weeks to see if these measures can continue to work.
如果下降趋势能够继续，那么传染病的确在走下坡路。
If the downward trend continues, infectious diseases are indeed on the decline.
但是这并不意味着它不会再次回头，比如因为管控措施放松而引发了再次暴发。
But that does not mean that it will not go back, for example, because deregulation triggered another outbreak.
人物：中国最近连续数日的确诊病例都在下降。
People: The number of confirmed cases in China has been declining for the last few days.
上次（注：2月10日）我们谈起的时候，你认为还需要时间观察，目前还无法判断趋势，你现在怎么看？Shaman：这些数字证明，现在的管控措施的确持续起到了作用。
Last time we talked about it, you thought it would take some time to look at it, it's too early to tell what the trend is, what do you thinkShaman: These figures prove that the controls are working.
我现在的担忧是中国之外。
My concern now is outside China.
此时此刻问题关键就在于，中国之外正在发生着什么？在其他地方，是否已经出现了再一次（传染病）暴发？人物：我们怎么才能避免最坏的结果？Shaman：最关键的是，我们现在需要对这个新病毒有更多了解，它如何传播、如何控制传播速度、如何有效治疗、如何研制疫苗。
The question at this point is, what is happening outside China? Is there another outbreak elsewhere? People: How can we avoid the worst? Shaman: Crucially, we now need to know more about the new virus, how to control its spread, how to treat it effectively, and how to develop a vaccine.
研制疫苗是一项跟时间比赛的挑战，在2009年的甲型H1N1流感大流行期间，人们就成功地及时研制出疫苗——从鉴定出新病毒到可以大量生产疫苗，花了大概6个月。
The development of vaccines is a time-race challenge, and during the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic, vaccines were successfully developed in time - from the identification of new viruses to the ability to mass-produce vaccines in about six months.
如果在这次疫情中，疫苗也能够及时研制成功，这将是最大的关键点。
If the vaccine can be developed successfully in time for this outbreak, this will be the most critical point.
我能预想的最好结果是，如果中国所采取的严格管控能够有效阻止病毒传播，为疫苗和药物研制争取到了时间，那我们就真的有可能将它控制住。
The best I can imagine is that if China's strict controls can effectively stop the spread of the virus and buy time for vaccines and drugs, then it is really possible to control it.
（感谢论文第一作者李瑞云对本文专业表述的建议）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
(Thanks to lead author Li Ruiyun for his advice to the professional expression of this article) Not enough? There are more wonderful stories waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
对话美国流行病学家：未发现的新冠感染者对我们意味着什么？。
Conversation American Epidemiologist: What does undiscovered new infections mean to us?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "对话美国流行病学家：未发现的新冠感染者对我们意味着什么？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Dialogue American epidemiologist: What does undiscovered new infections mean to us?;
var msg_desc = "「人类有很多无法根除的传染病。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Humans have many infectious diseases that cannot be eradicated.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
