留守的外地厨师：我真心为热干面加油丨人间。
Remaining Field Chef: I genuinely fill the world with hot, dry noodles.
沐沐。
Bathe yourself.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
“第一次给医院送餐，我觉得空气里都是病毒……后来看到一位护士累得趴着睡觉，也不能回家，就觉得自己太没种了，一点胆量都没有，也就不觉得病毒可怕了。
"The first time I brought a meal to the hospital, I thought the air was full of viruses... and then I saw a nurse so tired that she could sleep on her stomach and not be able to go home.
”配图 | Sipa图片社王绎龙的家乡是距离武汉120公里的一个小县城，没有大都市的繁华，也没工业区的匆忙，巴掌大的地方，生活宛若一滩死水。
My hometown is a small county 120 kilometers from Wuhan. Without the bustle of a big city or an industrial district, life is like a pool of stagnant water.
10年前，王绎龙背井离乡，来到武汉学做厨师。
Ten years ago, Wang went to Wuhan to learn how to cook.
初来武汉时，王绎龙的生活很单调。
When they first came to Wuhan, the life of Wang deductive dragons was monotonous.
工作之余，会去光谷广场散散步，偶尔也会托起二手的单反，拍拍眼前的美景。
After work, I will go for a walk in Guanggu Square, occasionally holding up a second-hand singly, patting the beauty of the scene.
等糖醋鱼、糖醋排骨成了他的拿手菜，他的足迹也布满了武汉的大街小巷。
When sweet and sour fish, sweet and sour pork ribs become his specialty, his footprints also filled the streets of Wuhan.
2017年初春，我结识了王绎龙，他为人憨厚老实，性格随和，我们很快就成了无话不说的朋友。
In the early spring of 2017, I got to know Wang Tonglong, he is honest, easy-going character, we soon became silent friends.
这个春节，他没能离开武汉，但也因此，才有机会结识了很多默默无闻的英雄。
This Spring Festival, he was not able to leave Wuhan, but also as a result, the opportunity to meet many unknown heroes.
1月23日早上，睡梦正酣的王绎龙突然被一脸凝重的舍友摇醒，“武汉要封城了，赶紧走吧。
On the morning of January 23, the Deductive Dragon, who was asleep in the middle of his dream, was suddenly woken up by a heavy roommate. Wuhan is closing the city.
”王绎龙吓了一跳，拿起手机看到了新闻，心里琢磨着，难怪睡梦中总感觉外面有动静。
"Freaked Wang, startled, picked up his mobile phone and read the news.
他从床上跳下来，慌慌张张穿好衣服，拦了一辆出租车就往火车站奔去。
He jumped out of bed, dressed in a panic, stopped a taxi and ran to the railway station.
此时，街上挤满了车，看方向全是准备出城的。
At this point, the street was full of cars, looking all the way out of the city.
车窗外，太阳刚刚升起，王绎龙的手心急出了汗。
Outside the car window, just as the sun was rising, Wang's hand was sweating.
时间一分一秒地过去，车子却没有挪动多少。
Minute by minute, the car did not move much.
到了火车站，已经是上午10点钟，王绎龙被拦了下来。
Arriving at the railway station, it was ten o'clock in the morning, Mr. Wang was stopped.
他呆呆地站在原地，看着已经封锁的火车站，心里不是滋味，一张火车票被他揉得不像样子。
He stood in the same place, watching the blocked train station, feel bad, a train ticket by him knead not like.
出站找了一辆私家车，平时200元的价格，立刻翻了1倍不止。
Out of the station to find a private car, usually 200 yuan price, immediately doubled more than twice.
王绎龙犹豫再三，拎着行李折回了宿舍。
After much hesitation, Wang went back to his dormitory with his luggage.
宿舍里空荡荡的，只剩下四五个同事没走，全都低着头坐着。
The dorm was empty except for four or five colleagues who sat with their heads down.
1月23日下午，王绎龙工作的酒店被告知暂停营业，老板退了所有年前定好的酒席，和客人挨个道过歉后，也愁眉苦脸地坐了下来。
On the afternoon of January 23, the hotel in which Wang was working was told to suspend business. The boss withdrew all the banquet he had fixed on before, and after apologizing for each guest, he sat down sadly.
外面的风呼呼作响，昔日人潮如海的酒店大堂，如今安静得可怕。
Outside, the wind was blowing, and the hotel lobby, once a sea of people, was now terribly quiet.
过了好一会儿，老板嘱咐大家安心在宿舍里待着，吃住不用担心，只是要多加注意，备好口罩，没事不要外出。
After a while, the boss told everyone to stay in the dorm peacefully, don't worry about eating and sleeping, just pay more attention, get a mask, nothing to go out.
街上的店面都关了，路上只有几个行人。
The shops on the street were closed and there were only a few pedestrians on the road.
王绎龙戴着口罩，步伐匆匆，走了两条街才发现一个药店，被告知N95口罩已经断货了，医用口罩也所剩无几。
Reductive dragon wearing a mask, hurried, walked two blocks before discovering a pharmacy, was told that the N95 mask had been out of stock, and that few medical masks were left.
最后，他买下了剩余的30个口罩。
Eventually, he bought the remaining 30 masks.
那天，我刷朋友圈的时候看到了王绎龙的动态，赶紧发了条微信，问他怎么还没走，要不再出去找找车。
The other day, when I was brushing my friends circle, I saw the movement of Wang deductive dragons. I immediately sent a letter asking him why he had not left and would not go out looking for a car.
“我知道你为我好，可我不能，留下来我更安心。
'I know you're good for me, but I can't, and it's easier for me to stay.
”“如果我就是病毒携带者，跑回家只会连累更多人，那真是千古罪人了。
"" If I were a carrier of the virus, running home would only increase the number of people involved, "he said.
”王绎龙回复说。
"replied Wang.
封城带来的恐慌，加上接二连三的负面消息，让很多选择留下来的人心态崩了。
The panic surrounding the closure, coupled with a barrage of bad news, has left many of those who chose to remain in a state of mind.
我也只能在心里暗自祈祷，希望大家都可以平安度过此次灾难。
I can only pray in my heart that we can all get through this disaster safely.
很快，武汉就有志愿者挺身而出、加入了这场没有硝烟的战斗。
Soon, Wuhan has volunteers to step forward to join the battle without the smoke.
全国各地的人也纷纷赶来支援。
People from all over the country came to help.
这些消息让王绎龙和同事们的恐慌化解了不少，又过了两天，酒店老板也决定加入志愿者团队。
The news allayed the fears of Wang and his colleagues, and after another two days, the landlord decided to join the volunteer team.
老板是武汉本地人，今年35岁，这个酒店已经开了七八年了。
The boss is a native of Wuhan, 35, who has been in the hotel for seven or eight years.
1月27日下午，老板把自己的想法告诉员工，说医院也联系好了，希望能承担起给2家医院一线医护人员送爱心餐的任务。
On the afternoon of Jan. 27, the boss told his staff that the hospital had been contacted and hoped to be able to take on the task of delivering caring meals to the front-line staff of the two hospitals.
大家纷纷积极响应。
Everyone responded positively.
很快6名员工就在老板的安排下开始工作，原本每天热热闹闹的后厨此时空荡荡的，只有切菜的回声。
Soon six employees began work under the boss's supervision, and the bustling back kitchen was empty at the moment, with only the echo of the cut.
平时在酒店，王绎龙主要负责做凉菜，其余的工作做得不多。
Usually in the hotel, Wang DeLung is mainly responsible for making cold dishes, the rest of the work is not done much.
这一次，他承担了包括切菜、配菜、装盒、打包在内的大部分工作。
This time, he did most of the cutting, side dishes, packing and packing.
在6个员工的齐心协力下，大家用了将近4个小时，一共做了800份盒饭。
With the concerted efforts of six employees, it took nearly four hours to make a total of 800 boxed meals.
酒店的后院有一辆面包车，是平时采购蔬菜用的。
There is a van in the back yard of the hotel, which is usually used for vegetable shopping.
王绎龙把面包车开到门厅前，大家把盒饭放在车上，王绎龙就戴着两层医用口罩，套上游泳镜和头套出发了。
Deductive Dragon drove the van to the front of the hall. They put the box of rice on the cart. The deductive dragon wore a two-layer medical mask, put on swimming glasses and hood and set off.
前几天，街上还可以看到几个戴口罩的行人，如今只剩空荡荡的街道，两侧的店铺都大门紧闭。
A few days ago, a few masked pedestrians could be seen on the street, leaving only empty streets and shops on either side closed.
王绎龙想起自己初来武汉的时候，真有种刘姥姥进大观园的感觉，大路宽阔，汽车穿梭，光谷广场上人头攒动，好似空中的点点星光。
When Wang thought of his first visit to Wuhan, there really was something about Grandma Liu entering the garden. The road was wide, the cars were shuttling, and the people in Guanggu Square were thronging like starlight in the sky.
来武汉这么久，这是他第一次看到这个城市像是被世界遗弃的孩子，孤单又无助。
Wuhan so long, this is the first time he saw this city as if abandoned by the world, lonely and helpless.
20多分钟后，王绎龙到达医院，被门岗的值班人员拦在了外面。
More than 20 minutes later, Wang DeLung arrived at the hospital and was stopped outside by the guard at the gate.
他解释了半天，说自己是给医生护士送盒饭的，才被允许进入。
He explained for a long time that he had been allowed to enter because he had sent boxed food to the doctor and nurse.
停好车，王绎龙两手拎着两大袋盒饭就往医院大楼里跑去。
When the car is parked, Wang Deren runs to the hospital building with two large bags of rice in both hands.
还没进去，他就闻到一股消毒水的味道。
Before he could get in, he smelled a whiff of disinfectant.
大厅里挤满了人，每个人都戴着口罩，捂得严严实实，不时还传来阵阵咳嗽声。
The hall was full of people, each wearing a mask, covering himself tightly, and coughing was heard now and then.
王绎龙内心有点发怵，只想赶快放下盒饭马上离开。
I feel a little nervous and I just want to put down the boxed rice and leave immediately.
王绎龙想喊个护士接饭，可护士都在忙，他杵在原地，心里急得厉害。
Reductive dragon wanted to call a nurse to take the meal, but the nurse was busy. He pestled on the spot and felt very anxious.
好不容易等一个护士发现了他，王绎龙赶紧迎过去，“护士你好，我是来给医院送盒饭的，你看看放哪里合适？”护士看了看周围，让王绎龙随她过去，然后打开了一个小门。
After waiting for a nurse to find him, he hurried to meet him.Nurse Hello, I am here to deliver boxed rice to the hospital, so can you see where it fits? The nurse looked around and let Wang follow her, then opened a small door.
那个房间不大，也就十几个平方的样子，垃圾桶里堆得像小山。
The room was small and a dozen square, and the rubbish bin was like a hill.
一个身穿白色隔离衣，戴着口罩和护目镜的护士正趴在桌子上，似乎睡着了。
A nurse in a white paraphernalia, wearing a mask and goggles, was leaning over the table and seemed to be asleep.
“把盒饭放在这里就好。
"Just leave the box here.
”引路的护士说。
"said the leading nurse.
王绎龙蹑手蹑脚地把盒饭放在墙边，又折回车上，总共跑了十几趟，才把盒饭都卸完。
Mr. Wang tiptoed the box to the wall and back to the car. He made a dozen trips to unload the boxed rice.
这时，趴着睡觉的护士醒了，看着王绎龙摆盒饭。
At this time, the nurse who sleeps on her stomach wakes up and watches the train of dragons.
“对不起，把你吵醒了。
"I'm sorry to wake you up.
”王绎龙连忙道歉。
"Deductive dragon apologized quickly.
“没事，我本来打算小憩一会儿，没想到睡着了。
"No, I was going to take a nap, but I didn't expect to fall asleep.
”护士随即站起来说。
"The nurse then stood up and said.
王绎龙这才明白一线人员有多辛苦，可自己竟只想着快速逃离这里，顿时心里又涌起一阵愧疚。
Wang DeLung then understood how hard the frontline staff were, but he only wanted to escape here quickly and felt a rush of guilt.
他指了指盒饭，告诉护士趁热吃，填饱肚子才好战斗。
He pointed to the boxed rice and told the nurse to eat hot and fill his stomach before fighting.
“谢谢你，我真是吃不下，现在就渴望安安稳稳睡一觉，我就很满足了。
"Thank you, I can't eat, and I'm content to crave a sound sleep now.
”王绎龙的心里五味杂陈，没想到对于医护而言，睡觉都成了一种奢侈。
The heart of Wang deductive dragon is mixed, did not expect that for medical care, sleep has become a luxury.
他还是劝：“你吃点吧，身体是革命的本钱，你这样家人也不会放心啊，他们也想你健健康康的。
He still exhorts: "You eat some, the body is the capital of revolution, your family will not rest easy ah, they also want you healthy and healthy.
”没想到这随口说出的话，竟然让护士一下愣住了。
"I didn't think that this casual remark stunned the nurse.
王绎龙隔着护目镜，看到护士的眼眶很快红了。
Deductive dragons look through the goggles and see the nurse's eyes turn red quickly.
护士告诉他，自己的儿子刚满6岁，最后一次视频通话的时候，儿子天真地问她什么时候回来，她许诺儿子很快会回家，这是她第一次对儿子撒谎。
The nurse told him that her son had just turned 6 and that the last time he spoke on video he asked her naively when she would be back, promising that her son would be home soon, the first time she had lied to him.
护士一直觉得自己是个女强人，流汗流血不流泪，可这么多天，看着不断被送进来的病人，她心里害怕极了。
The nurse had always thought she was a strong woman, sweating and bleeding, but for so many days she was terrified of being sent in.
刚来一线的时候，她也是斗志满满，要救病人于水深火热之中。
When the first line, she is also full of fighting spirit, to save the patient in deep suffering.
可现在，她只盼望着疫情赶紧过去，自己能健康地走出医院，和家人团圆。
But now, she is just looking forward to the epidemic quickly over, their own health out of the hospital, and family reunion.
就在两人说话时，门忽然被推开了，一个护士风风火火走进来，“姐，你醒了啊，那赶紧来帮下忙，又来了几个重症患者，真忙不过来了。
Just as the two talked, the door was suddenly pushed open, a nurse came in, "Sister, you wake up, then hurry to help, there are a few serious patients, really busy.
”两位护士匆匆忙忙地跑了出去，王绎龙清理了房间里的垃圾桶，提着垃圾离开了。
"The two nurses ran out in a hurry. The stream of dragons cleaned the garbage cans in the room and left with the rubbish.
晚上躺下后，王绎龙的心久久不能平静，他拨通了父亲的电话，又迅速挂掉了。
When he lay down at night, the heart of Wang could not be quiet for a long time. He dialed his father's telephone and died quickly.
封城后，王绎龙一直安慰自己，“不回家也许是一件好事。
After the closure of the city, Wang has been consoling himself that "not going home may be a good thing.
”他今年28岁，在村子里算是大龄剩男，他实在不想面对大家看他的眼光——鄙夷中透漏着嘲讽。
He was 28, the oldest man left in the village, and he didn't want to look at him - with a sneer in his contempt.
那些人嘴上说着虚情假意的寒暄，脸上的表情却早已将他们的想法出卖了。
The faces of the men, who spoke of vanity, had already betrayed their ideas.
小时候，王绎龙很盼着过年，一家人在一起，热热闹闹的。
When I was young, Wang was looking forward to the New Year, the family together, hot and noisy.
随着年龄的增大，心里也开始有了恐惧，特别是母亲去世以后。
As you get older, you start to feel fear, especially after your mother dies.
2016年全国自然灾害，老家也发了大水，王绎龙的父母从浙江工地上往家赶，路上出了事故，只有父亲幸存下来，一个家就这样破碎了。
In 2016 a national natural disaster, the home of a great deal of water, Wang's parents from Zhejiang construction site rushed home, the road accident, only the father survived, a home was broken.
母亲的葬礼结束后，亲戚告诉王绎龙，如果你早点成家，父母也不至于如此着急地赶回来，也就不会出事了——那年，王绎龙独自在武汉，父亲本不想回来，是母亲念着儿子孤身一人，万一遭了灾也无人照顾，坚持要拉着父亲一起回来的——亲戚的这句话像烙印一样深深地刻在了他的心上，再也抹不去。
When his mother's funeral was over, relatives told him that if you had started a family earlier, your parents would not have come home so hurriedly, and nothing would have happened.That year, Detledragon was alone in Wuhan, his father didn't want to come back.
自从母亲走后，王绎龙和酒鬼父亲更疏远了。
Deductive dragons have become more distant from their drunken father since their mother left.
但春节和爷爷奶奶一起过，也不至于寡淡。
But the Spring Festival and grandpa together, also do not dilute.
可去年3月，奶奶也离开了，想来今年回不回家过年，也就那么回事吧。
But last March, Grandma also left, would like to go home this New Year, that's what it is.
大年三十那天晚上，父亲和王绎龙通了电话。
On the evening of New Year's Eve, my father and Wang reached the telephone.
说了没几句，父亲嘱咐他要多注意安全，然后就挂了电话。
After saying a few words, the father told him to pay more attention to safety, and then hung up the phone.
此时，躺在床上的王绎龙还在犹豫，手机铃声忽然响了，吓了他一跳。
At this time, the Deductive Dragon is still hesitating on his bed. The phone suddenly rings and gives him a fright.
他定睛一看，是父亲打来的。
It was his father who made him look up.
“吃饭了吗？这几天过得咋样？没事别外出，我看都说武汉很严重，你可别到处跑啊……”一箩筐的话从父亲嘴里往外冒，一向沉默寡言的父亲今天竟然唠叨起来。
"Dinner? How's it going these days? Don't go out. I think Wuhan is serious. Don't run around..." A basket of words came out of his father's mouth.
王绎龙忍不住把自己去医院给医生护士送饭的事告诉了父亲，不料父亲听了却勃然大怒，“你是不是不要狗命了！都这时候了还敢去医院？！”“爸，你不用担心，一线人员真的很辛苦，全国都在支援武汉，我也该做点事……”王绎龙的这番话犹如火上浇油，父亲的火气更大了，他对着电话吼：“老子不管，你不许给我去，不管别人怎么样，你就是不行！”王绎龙和父亲僵持半天，最后双方都生气了。
When the father heard this, he was furious. "Don't you want to die a dog! Do you still dare to go to the hospital at this time?" "Dad, you don't have to worry, the front-line staff are supporting Wuhan.
那天晚上，王绎龙翻来覆去难以入睡。
That night, the king could not fall asleep.
1月28日，王绎龙早上4点就爬了起来。
On January 28, a train of dragons climbs up at 4am.
吃完饭后，他穿好工作服，戴上帽子和口罩进了后厨。
After dinner, he put on his overalls, hat and mask and went into the back kitchen.
今天武汉市内的员工也有不少来帮忙了，大家都是向社区特殊申请过，才能回来“开工”的。
Today, the staff in Wuhan City also have a lot of help, everyone is to the community special application, can come back to "start."
后厨的分工也稍微明确了一些，女的负责洗菜择菜，男的负责切菜炒菜，然后装盒打包，效率自然也提高了。
The chef's division of labor is a little clearer, the woman in charge of washing dishes, the man in charge of chopping vegetables, and then pack the package, the efficiency has improved.
做一次盒饭，后厨20多人要忙碌将近两三个小时，在这期间，没有人是闲着的，哪里需要帮忙就去哪里。
For a boxed meal, more than 20 cooks are busy for nearly two or three hours, during which time no one is free to go anywhere they need help.
光切菜就要切一两百斤，第一次切这么久，后来胳膊就像坠了千斤大石头，沉得抬不起来。
Cut cabbage only one or two hundred kilos, the first cut so long, then arms like a falling catty of stone, too heavy to lift.
另一边由厨师长负责炒菜，一天下来，手也肿到没有知觉。
On the other side the chef was in charge of cooking, and by the end of the day his hands were swollen to unconsciousness.
盒饭分成午餐和晚餐，按照一袋10盒打包，数量也比昨天增加了不少。
Boxed rice is divided into lunches and dinners, packed in 10 boxes per bag, a significant increase over yesterday.
店里送不及的时候，就叫外卖小哥来帮忙。
When the store couldn't deliver, he asked the take-out boy to help.
自从知道酒店开始义务给医院送盒饭后，供应商也陆陆续续地送来了蔬菜、水果、肉蛋奶，这下原料也有了保证。
Since knowing that the hotel began to volunteer to deliver boxed rice to the hospital, the supplier also successively sent vegetables, fruits, eggs and milk, this raw materials have also been assured.
这天，刚忙完中午的盒饭，王绎龙刚想伸个懒腰，老板就来喊了，“快来卸货，蔬菜送来了。
On this day, just after lunch in the box, the deductive dragon just wanted to stretch his waist, so the boss came and cried, "Come and unload the goods. Vegetables are delivered.
”王绎龙拖着沉重的步伐走出去，看到了一辆集装箱小货车，里面装得满满当当的。
Dragging his heavy pace, Mr. Wang went out and saw a container van full of people.
送货员说，现在火神山、雷神山的工人和一线人员都需要盒饭，城里有越来越多的餐厅酒店加入了志愿者的队伍，他送完这一家，后面还有很多家，“得保证这些盒饭的供应充足呀！”这些蔬菜水果是全国各地紧急捐赠的，后面陆续会有更多。
Now workers and front-line workers in Mount Fire, Raytheon Mountain need boxed meals, and more and more restaurant hotels in the city are joining the volunteer corps, he said, adding that "we have to make sure we have enough of these boxes of rice and vegetables," which are donated on an emergency basis all over the country.
王绎龙听了心里感觉很安慰，他让送货小哥先去休息会儿，然后就扛起蔬菜往大厅运。
Hearing this, Wang felt very comforted. He told the delivery boy to take a rest first and then carry the vegetables to the hall.
酒店大厅本来是承办婚宴酒席的，如今桌椅全被拉到一旁，很快，地上就铺满了蔬菜，有白菜、菜花、土豆、青椒……红的绿的，放在一起像一队队等待出征的士兵。
The hotel lobby was originally a wedding banquet, but now the tables and chairs are pulled aside, and soon the ground is covered with vegetables, cabbages, cauliflower, potatoes, green peppers... red green, put together like a line of soldiers waiting to go out.
好不容易忙完，王绎龙终于有空能歇一会儿了。
At last, the deductive dragon is free to have a rest for a while.
手机又响了，还是父亲。
The cell phone rang again, father.
王绎龙觉得父亲不可理喻，实在不想接电话，可犹豫了一下，还是接通了电话。
Deductive dragon thought father unreasonable, really do not want to answer the phone, but hesitated for a moment, or connected to the telephone.
父亲先开了口，“小龙啊，你还好吧，我也在手机上看了，医护人员确实不容易，吃不上饭，在地上睡觉……我没别的意思，就是担心你，你可不能再出什么事了。
My father started by saying, "Dragon, are you all right? I've been on my cell phone, and it's not easy for health care workers to eat and sleep on the floor... I have no other meaning than to worry about you, and you can't do anything else.
”就这样，王绎龙和父亲和好了。
"In this way, the deductive dragon made peace with his father.
“好好干，现在是用你的时候，还是要多注意自己。
"Well, now, when you're in use, pay more attention to yourself.
”父亲嘱咐完，挂了电话，王绎龙感觉心里变得暖洋洋的。
Father finished telling him to hang up the phone, and Wang Feeling warm in his heart.
接连好几天，外卖小哥王强都会准时来店里取餐。
Several days in a row, take-out brother Wang Qiang will come to the store on time to pick up meals.
虽然王绎龙没和他说过几句话，但他听同事说，王强一直奔波在武汉各个医院之间，“被传染的几率特别大。
Although Wang did not say a few words with him, he heard from his colleagues that Wang Qiang has been traveling between Wuhan hospitals, "the risk of infection is particularly high.
”慢慢熟识后，王强给王绎龙讲了自己的经历。
"After getting to know each other, Wang Qiang told Wang the story.
封城之后，很多餐馆都关门了，餐饮送的不多，便利店和药店反而跑得最多。
After the closure of the city, many restaurants were closed, dining out was limited and convenience stores and pharmacies ran the most.
送外卖9个月以来，王强一直备受好评，送餐时他会顺手带走客户家的垃圾，或是帮忙做一些力所能及的事情。
For nine months after delivering takeaway, Mr. Wang has been praised for taking away trash from customers' homes and doing things he could.
可这几天，他看到一些网友骂外卖小哥，“为挣钱无下限，发国难财”。
But these days, he saw some netizens scold take-out younger brother, "to make money without a lower limit, the country difficult to make money."
这些话像一把锋利的刀，扎在王强的心上。
These words were like a sharp knife in the heart of Wang Qiang.
这个春节他坚持送外卖，根本没考虑过钱，只是想多帮助一些因为各种原因无法出门的人。
He insisted on delivering takeaway this Spring Festival, never considering money, just want to help some people who can not go out for various reasons.
没曾想误解这么深，再加上妻子也五次三番地劝他不要再出去跑了，他便同意了。
Not wanting to misunderstand so much, and since his wife had advised him five times not to go out again, he agreed.
1月28日晚上，王强想着送完最后一单就回家待着，好好陪妻子和女儿，安安稳稳地等疫情过去。
January 28 evening, Wang Qiang to send the last order to stay home, with his wife and daughter, quietly waiting for the epidemic to pass.
他平时一直在外奔波，也想借这个机会好好补偿一下家人。
He has been out of the ordinary time, also want to take the opportunity to make up for the family.
晚上，回到家楼下，王强才看到群里的消息。
In the evening, when he came home downstairs, Wang Qiang saw the news from the group.
群里说，从明天开始要集中给一线医护人员送外卖了，很多人报了名。
The group said it would concentrate on delivering takeaway to front-line medical staff starting tomorrow, and many people signed up.
王强停住了脚步，看着群里骑手发的照片，医护人员只能靠泡面和面包充饥，甚至没空去厕所，他还是在群里发了一句——“王强报名。
Wang Qiang stopped and looked at the photos of the riders in the group. The doctors and nurses could only stay hungry with noodles and bread.
”回到家，王强和妻子说了这件事，妻子哭得停不下来，最后勉强才同意他的决定。
When he got home, Wang Qiang told his wife about it, and she couldnt stop crying and finally reluctantly agreed to his decision.
王强明白妻子的担心，他再三承诺自己肯定不会有事。
Wang Qiang understood his wife's worries and promised repeatedly that he would be all right.
那夜，他一夜无眠。
That night, he slept all night.
从那天起，王强和几个兄弟开始了新的奔波。
From that day on, Wang Qiang and several brothers began a new rush.
为了避免把危险带给家人，他们所有人都挤在一间小屋里休息。
In order to avoid bringing danger to their families, all of them crowded into a small room to rest.
每天晚上和妻子女儿视频成了王强唯一的精神支撑——“等这次疫情赶紧过去，一定兑现自己的诺言，带女儿去一次儿童乐园。
Every night with his wife and daughter video became Wang Qiang's only spiritual support - "When this epidemic quickly over, we must fulfill their promise to take their daughter to a children's paradise.
”“你害怕过吗？” 王绎龙忍不住问王强。
"Have you ever been afraid?" asked Wang Qiang.
“怎么能不害怕？上有老下有小，我前几天还想呢，自己万一病了连累一家人，后来一想，也就这么个事，不能自己吓自己，不想也就没事了。
"How can I not be afraid? I thought a few days ago, in the event of illness involving a family, and then think of it, also such a thing, can not frighten themselves, do not want to also be all right.
我自己平时也挺注意，我们天天测体温、消毒，至今没有发现感染的。
I also pay attention to myself, we take temperature every day, disinfection, so far no infection found.
”“哎，我其实也害怕过，特别是第一次给医院送餐，我觉得空气里都是病毒……后来看到一位护士累得趴着睡觉，也不能回家，就觉得自己太没种了，一点胆量都没有，也就不觉得病毒可怕了。
"" Well, I was scared too, especially when I brought food to the hospital for the first time, and I thought the air was full of viruses... until I saw a nurse so tired that she could sleep on her stomach and not be able to go home.
”王强听完接过话茬，他说自己家小区的一个哥们儿做志愿者，负责接送医护人员上下班。
"Wang Qiang listened to the stubble, he said his community of a buddy volunteers, responsible for the transport of medical personnel to and from work.
前几天，这哥们送一个护士回家，护士上车就睡着了，到了目的地，他不仅没忍心喊醒护士下车，还自己偷偷抹眼泪。
The other day, the man sent a nurse home. The nurse got on the bus and fell asleep. When he got to his destination, he not only had no heart to wake the nurse out of the car, but also secretly wiped his tears.
“都不容易，这该死的肺炎快滚吧。
"It's not easy. Get out of here with this damn pneumonia.
”为了送餐效率更高，王强他们借来了一辆面包车，这样一次可以装更多。
To make the meal more efficient, Wang Qiang borrowed a van to hold more at a time.
见盒饭装完了，王强钻进驾驶座，车子很快消失在王绎龙的视野中。
When the boxed rice was finished, Wang Qiang got into the driver's seat, and the car soon disappeared from the view of Wang deductive dragon.
自从火神山开工后，有1400万网友在线监工，王绎龙也看过几次。
Since the start of the work on Mount Fire, 14 million netizens have been supervised online, and Wang has seen it several times.
1月31日上午，老板告诉王绎龙，火神山那边太忙了，没人来取餐，让他开车去送。
On the morning of January 31, the boss told the deductive dragon that the fire god mountain was too busy, no one came to get the meal, let him drive there.
上午11点，王绎龙把装满盒饭的面包车停在火神山门外。
At 11 a. m., a van full of boxed rice stops outside the door of Mount Fire.
他跟值班人员说明情况，把车开到指定地点，等所有盒饭搬下车，他已经累得满头大汗了。
He explained the situation to the watchman, drove the car to the designated place and waited for all the boxes to get off. He was sweating.
据网友统计，火神山施工现场，来自全国各地的工人共有4000多人，市区四五家酒店老板便联合起来，一同承担起给工人送餐的任务，餐送到后，再由工地组长负责分发。
According to netizens, fire god mountain construction site, workers from all over the country more than 4000 people, four or five urban hotel owners jointly assume the task of delivering food to workers, after the delivery of meals, the site leader will be responsible for distribution.
王绎龙到后没多久，工人们就陆陆续续来吃饭了，大家都是随便扒两口，尽量不浪费时间。
Not long after Wang's arrival, the workers trickled up to dinner, and everyone picked two people casually, trying not to waste time.
大约10分钟后，就有工人返回工地继续干活了。
About ten minutes later, the workmen returned to work.
由于王绎龙小时候也曾跟随父母在河南居住过一段时间，很快，人群中一个说着河南方言的工人就引起了他的注意。
As Wang deductive dragon also followed his parents to live in Henan for a period of time, soon, a group of workers speaking Henan dialect attracted his attention.
王绎龙过去打招呼，这个大哥说自己在网上看到信息，就直接带着两个兄弟来了。
The elder brother said that he had seen the information on the Internet, so he came directly with his two brothers.
“当时没想太多，想着能出一份力是一份力，反正待在家里也没什么事情。
"I didn't think too much about it. I thought it was a force to be able to do something.
”大哥告诉王绎龙，他来的时候妻子死活不同意，怕来时容易去时难，可他一再坚持。
When he came, his wife would not agree to it. He was afraid it would be easy to come, but he insisted.
同行的兄弟甚至没敢和家里父母说，老人年纪太大了，怕他们知道了身体受不住。
The brothers didn't even dare to tell their parents that the old man was too old for them to know that they could not stand it.
“你们可真是了不起，千里迢迢来到这里，我替武汉人民感谢你们……”王绎龙忍不住这么说。
"You are really amazing, I came all the way here, I thank you for the people of Wuhan......" Wang could not help saying.
大哥对着王绎龙摆摆手，指了指不远处的两个人，说：“他们才不容易。
The elder brother waved his hand at the dragon and pointed to two men not far away. They are not easy, he said.
”王绎龙看过去，其中一位是男同志，个子不高，身材干瘪；他旁边站着一位女同志，身材娇小，头发凌乱。
"Looking over, one of them was a gay man, short and thin, and next to him stood a comrade who was petite and had untidy hair.
大哥说，这是一对来自陕西的夫妻，他们得到消息抛下孩子，开车来武汉支援建设。
Big Brother said, this is a couple from Shaanxi Province, they got the news left the children, driving to Wuhan to support the construction.
他们做事任劳任怨，特别是女同志的选择，让大哥感到十分震撼。
They do nothing but complain, especially the choice of lesbians, let the elder brother feel very shocked.
大哥告诉王绎龙，他们一天干活的时间长达17个小时，大家争分夺秒，尽可能缩短休息时间。
The elder brother told Wang that they worked for up to 17 hours a day, and that everyone took time to relax as much as possible.
所有人心里的目标只有一个，那就是赶紧完工交付使用，这样更多的病人就可以住进医院了。
The only goal in everyone's mind is to get it done quickly so that more patients can be admitted to the hospital.
“我们都挺好，就是有点吃不惯，我们北方人都爱吃馒头，米饭这玩意有点不抗饿。
"We are all very good, but a little not used to eating, we northerners love steamed bread, rice this thing is a little hungry.
”大哥说着还挠了挠头，露出一副很不好意思的样子。
"said Big Brother, scratching his head and showing a very embarrassed look.
王绎龙记住了大哥的话，他中午返回店里，立刻向老板报告情况。
When he returned to the store at noon, he immediately reported the situation to his boss.
老板当即决定，以后要多备一些饭，一定要让那些在一线战斗的人都吃得饱饱的。
The boss immediately decided to prepare more food in the future, and to make sure that those who fought on the front lines were well fed.
后记2020年2月2日，火神山医院正式交付使用了。
Postscript on February 2, 2020, the fire god mountain hospital officially delivered to use.
这些从全国各地来武汉的工人，又陆续返回了自己的家乡，开始了隔离的生活。
The workers, who came to Wuhan from all over the country, returned to their hometown and began to live in isolation.
临行前，那个河南大哥和王绎龙通了电话，说等疫情过后，要请他去河南做客。
Before he left, that Henan Big Brother and Wang deductive Longtong called and said that after the epidemic, he should be invited to Henan as a guest.
王绎龙连连答应。
Reductive dragons repeatedly promise.
因为连日超负荷的工作，王绎龙曾经受过伤的腰，痛得更厉害了。
Deductive dragons, who had been injured by days of overwork, suffered much worse pain.
他晚上时常疼得睡不着，老板看他这个样子，就让他好好休息几天。
He often couldn't sleep at night, so the boss let him have a good rest for a few days.
王绎龙知道，老板本想借着过年大赚一笔，谁知却遇到了这种情况。
Deductive dragon knew that the boss wanted to make a fortune in the Spring Festival, but he met this kind of situation.
虽然有供应商免费送菜，但老板自己也补贴了不少钱。
Although there is a supplier of free food, but the boss also subsidizes a lot of money.
王绎龙问老板有什么打算，老板咧嘴一笑，“继续送盒饭呗，我最想看到疫情过后街上车水马龙的情景，只希望这一天早点儿来。
The boss grinned as he asked the boss what he was going to do. "Keep sending boxes of rice, I'd love to see the traffic flow in the streets after the epidemic, just hope it comes earlier.
”趴在床上歇了几天，王绎龙又在微信上问外卖小哥王强最近怎么样——本来想打电话的，又一想，万一王强在开车就不好打扰了。
After resting on his stomach for a few days, Wang deductive dragon asked Wang Qiang, the little brother who had taken out, how he was going to make a phone call.
王强很快回了信息，他说自己很好，现在送餐的志愿者多了，他没有那么忙了，每天可以休息一会儿，吃口热饭。
Wang Qiang quickly responded to the message, he said he is very good, now more volunteers to deliver food, he is not so busy, every day can rest for a while, eat a hot meal.
隔天下午，王强给王绎龙发了一个入群的二维码。
The next afternoon, Wang Qiang gave Wang Yi-Long a group of two-dimensional code.
他说里面的网友都是今年春节留在武汉的外地人，“大家可以聊聊天嘛，没准可以找个女朋友呢！”群里人不多，群主热情地邀请王绎龙做自我介绍。
He said that the netizens inside were foreigners staying in Wuhan this Spring Festival. "We can chat, maybe we can find a girlfriend!" The crowd was not many, and the crowd warmly invited Wang to introduce themselves.
他说完后，群主介绍说群里的十几人都是自愿留在武汉的，其中有两个大学生，为了不给家人惹麻烦，第一次孤身留在外地过年。
After saying this, the group said that a dozen people in the group had voluntarily stayed in Wuhan, including two university students who had stayed away for the first time in order not to cause trouble to their families.
2月14日情人节，武汉下了一场小雨，气温骤降，一个群友发了个悲伤的表情。
On February 14, Valentine's Day, Wuhan under a light rain, the temperature plummeted, a group of friends made a sad expression.
王绎龙想，可能是节日加上这疫情，让大家心情不太好，于是就在群里发了一条消息：今天是特殊的情人节，所有的不见，都是为了以后的再见。
Deductive dragon thought that it might be the festival plus this epidemic situation, which made everyone feel bad, so he sent a message in the group: Today is a special Valentine's Day.
很快，一个群友发了一句：“武汉加油，热干面加油。
Soon, a group of friends issued a sentence: "Wuhan refueling, hot and dry noodles refueling.
”紧接着，其他群友也发了同样的内容。
"The same thing happened to the rest of the group.
整齐的语句，真挚的呐喊，让王绎龙感动不已。
The neatly sentence, the sincere cry, lets the Wang deductive dragon move unceasingly.
他坚信，武汉的春天即将来临。
He firmly believes that Wuhan spring is coming.
| 王绎龙告诉我，他希望能把这张图发上来。
Mr. Wang told me that he wished to send this map.
（作者供图）（文中人物皆为化名）编辑| 沈燕妮点击联系人间编辑沐 沐90后爱看悬疑的吃货一枚本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
Shen Yanni clicked with human editors at the top of the world to find out what's at stake. A copy of our exclusive contract with Netease News Studio is in exclusive copyright.
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
Bye-bye Police chiefs unworthy of being a civil servant at Rest & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留守的外地厨师：我真心为热干面加油丨人间。
Remaining Field Chef: I genuinely fill the world with hot, dry noodles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "留守的外地厨师：我真心为热干面加油丨人间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; stay-at-home chef: I genuinely refuel hot-and-dry noodles.
var msg_desc = "武汉加油，热干面加油。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan refuels, hot and dry noodles.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
