武汉市红十字会工作人员： “我们的职能就是收，我们没有权力去决定发”。
Wuhan Red Cross staff: "Our function is to accept, we do not have the right to decide to send."
敬奕步。
Wheaty step.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲（武汉红十字会官网截图/图）全文共3412字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
Wuhan Red Cross official website screenshot / picture of the total 3412 words, reading about 7 minutes.
“在物资发放这块，不会说我们想给谁就给谁，所有的分配由卫健委和防控指挥部来决定。
"In the distribution area, we don't say who we want to give to, and all the distribution is up to the health committee and the command for control."
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 敬奕步南方周末实习生 龚柔善责任编辑 | 张玥2020年1月30日，湖北省红十字会首次公布了本次疫情暴发以来接收捐赠物资的使用情况，随之迅速陷入舆论漩涡。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
连侠客岛亦发文指出:公众的批评是否有道理？当然有——前段时间，官方要求所有援助物资都汇总到红会统一调配，但实际运行显然已经超出了一个红会或者慈善机构的能力范围，造成援助物资流通的“肠梗阻”，这种供需矛盾尖锐，不解决更待何时？此次引起争议的是，红十字会于官方网站发布的《物资使用情况公布（一）》显示，协和医院（全称华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院）获得了3000个口罩，折算金额1.2万元。
Some time ago, officials demanded that all aid materials be pooled in the Red Cross Society, but the actual operation was clearly beyond the capacity of a Red Cross or charity, resulting in a sharp supply-and-demand problem.
而武汉仁爱医院和武汉天佑医院（全称武汉科技大学附属天佑医院）一共获得了36000个N95口罩，折算金额36万元。
Wuhan Ren Ai Hospital and Wuhan Tianyou Hospital (fully known as Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated Tian You Hospital) received a total of 36,000 N95 masks, converted into $360,000.
官方资料显示，武汉天佑医院属国家三级甲等公立医院，现有职工1200多人，是武汉市卫生健康委员会设置的61家发热门诊之一。
According to official data, Wuhan Tianyou Hospital is a state-level public hospital, with more than 1,200 employees, is one of the 61 fever clinics set up by Wuhan Health Commission.
武汉仁爱医院则是一所以妇科、产科、口腔科为重点专科的二级综合医院，目前拥有卫技人才268人。
Wuhan Renai Hospital is a department of gynaecology, obstetrics, stomatology as a key specialty of the secondary general hospital, there are 268 Wei-tech talents.
该院不在武汉市发热门诊医疗机构和定点救治医疗机构名单之列。
The hospital is not included in the list of fever outpatient medical institutions and designated medical institutions in Wuhan.
而协和医院是武汉市历史最悠久的一所大型综合性教学医院，现有职工8000余人。
And Concorde Hospital is Wuhan's oldest large-scale comprehensive teaching hospital, there are more than 8,000 employees.
协和医院属本次61家发热门诊医疗机构之一，亦是湖北省市联合医疗救治专家所驻地之一。
Concorde Hospital is one of the 61 out-patient heating clinics, and also one of the places where Hubei City United Medical Treatment Experts are located.
作为收治疫病患者主力军的协和医院，为何只分得区区3000个口罩？1月31日，南方周末记者联系了二十余个公开的协和医院接受社会捐赠的联系电话，但所有接通的电话都以不便回答、记者应联系医院宣传部门为由，拒绝了采访。
On January 31, Southern Weekend reporter contacted more than 20 open concorde hospitals to receive phone calls from the public, but all the calls were refused on the grounds that they were inconvenient to answer and that journalists should contact the hospital's propaganda department.
而协和医院宣传部的电话始终占线。
Concorde's propaganda department kept the line busy.
1月31日下午，湖北省红十字会在一片质疑声中，发布了《关于“N95口罩36000个”接收和使用情况更正说明》。
On the afternoon of January 31, the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province issued a Corrective Note on the Reception and Use of 36,000 N95 Masks amid a flurry of doubts.
该说明指出，捐赠的“N95口罩36000个”应更正为“KN95口罩36000个”；其流向“武汉仁爱医院1.6万、武汉天佑医院1.6万”更正为“武汉仁爱医院1.8万个、武汉天佑医院1.8万个”。
The statement said 36,000 of the donated "N95 face masks" should be corrected to "36,000 KN95 face masks," and the flow to "Wuhan Renhe Hospital 16,000, Wuhan Tianyou Hospital 16,000" to "Wuhan Renhe Hospital 18,000, Wuhan Tianyou Hospital 18,000."
该说明还显示：2020年1月26日，一家爱心企业向湖北省红十字会捐赠3.6万个KN95口罩。
The note also showed that on January 26, 2020, a caring enterprise donated 36,000 KN95 masks to the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province.
经向卫生健康部门了解，该型号产品不能用于新冠肺炎治疗定点医院一线医护人员防护，但可用于普通防护。
According to the health department, this model can not be used to protect the front-line medical staff in the designated hospital, but it can be used for general protection.
当时，武汉科技大学附属天佑医院、武汉仁爱医院向省红十字会发来紧急求助信息，申请紧急救助，提出也参与了新冠肺炎防治工作，在本医院也有很多发热群众候诊就医，急需防护用品。
At that time, Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated Tian You Hospital, Wuhan Yan Ai Hospital to the provincial Red Cross Society sent emergency information, applied for emergency relief, also proposed to participate in the prevention and treatment of New Crown Pneumonia, there are many hot people waiting for medical treatment, urgently need protective supplies.
经沟通，本着人道救急的客观需求和当时的物资现状，捐赠给武汉科技大学附属天佑医院1.8万个口罩、武汉仁爱医院1.8万个口罩。
Through communication, in line with the objective needs of humanitarian relief and the current material situation, donated to Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated Tianyou Hospital 18,000 masks, Wuhan Yan Ai Hospital 18,000 masks.
南方周末记者随后致电武汉天佑医院和武汉仁爱医院。
Southern Weekend reporter called Wuhan Tianyou Hospital and Wuhan RenAi Hospital.
连续两次，武汉仁爱医院的电话刚接通就被挂断了。
Two times in a row, Wuhan Ren Ai Hospital phone was just connected to be hung up.
天佑医院则表示，记者采访应找相关部门，但拒绝告知“相关部门”的联系方式。
Tianyou Hospital said reporters should find relevant departments, but refused to "relevant departments" contact information.
据上游新闻报道，1月31日下午，武汉仁爱医院院长熊怡祥公开回应称，“1月23日，武汉确定了7家新型冠状病毒肺炎定点医院接收发热病人，之后我们医院就不再接收。
"On January 23, Wuhan identified seven new coronavirus pneumonia referral hospitals to receive fever patients, and our hospital will no longer accept them," said Xiong Yixiang, dean of Wuhan Renroi Hospital on the afternoon of January 31.
但我们还是需要口罩，医院还有70个病人在住院。
But we still need masks, and the hospital has 70 patients in the hospital.
”熊怡祥表示，医院需要口罩，但买不到。
Hospitals need masks, but they can't buy them, he said.
1月22日，仁爱医院面向社会求助口罩支援，无果。
On January 22, Yan Oi Hospital faced the community for help with face masks, to no avail.
1月24日，向武汉市红十字会求援，无果。
January 24, Wuhan City Red Cross to ask for help, but to no avail.
1月26日，医院向湖北省红十字会求援，于次日领到了1.8万个KN95口罩。
On January 26, the hospital requested help from the Hubei Red Cross Society and received 18,000 KN95 masks the next day.
仁爱医院还公开了所领取口罩的使用情况。
The hospital has also made public the use of face masks it collects.
公告显示，该院目前在院医护人员280人，加上住院病人、陪同家属等，每日合计需2400只口罩。
The hospital currently has 280 hospital staff, plus inpatients, accompanying family members and so on, requiring a total of 2,400 face masks per day, the notice said.
于湖北省红十字会领取的这批口罩，大约可消耗7天。
The masks were collected by the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province and consumed about seven days.
南方周末记者联系了公布捐赠物资使用情况的湖北省红十字会，接听电话的工作人员留下了记者的联系方式，称随后会联系记者。
Southern Weekend reporter contacted the Hubei Red Cross Society, which announced the use of the donated materials.
截至发稿，南方周末记者未收到回复。
As of the dispatch, Southern Weekend reporter did not receive a response.
同样深陷质疑的，还有武汉市红十字会。
Also in deep doubt, Wuhan City Red Cross.
2020年1月31日，南方周末记者拨打武汉市红十字会的官方电话，表明了记者身份后，与接听电话的工作人员有了如下对话。
On 31 January 2020, Southern Weekend reporter dialed an official call from the Wuhan Red Cross, identified himself as a journalist, and engaged in the following dialogue with the staff who answered the phone.
南方周末：1月30日，武汉市红十字会官方微博“博爱江城”当天首次公布的接受社会捐赠物资拨付情况中，为什么没有协和医院？（该条微博已于31日编辑更改）武汉市红十字会工作人员（以下简称“工作人员”）：武汉市红十字会的职能是接受社会的捐赠，但是它没有权力去决定物资的发放和分配。
South Weekend: January 30, Wuhan Red Cross official micro-blog "fraternity river city" announced the first time to receive social donations of the situation, why there is no Concorde Hospital (Wuhan City Red Cross staff): Wuhan City Red Cross Society functions to receive donations from the community, but it does not have the power to decide on the distribution and distribution of materials.
在物资发放这块，不会说我们想给谁就给谁，所有的分配由卫健委和防控指挥部来决定。
In the distribution of supplies, we do not say who we want to give to whom, all the distribution is decided by the health care committee and the control command.
红十字会这么多年来一直受很多人的误解，它的社会公信力有人质疑。
The Red Cross has been misunderstood by many for so many years, and its credibility in society has been questioned.
当然我们本身的工作也有很多不足的地方，但我们目前只能把时间和精力放在工作上。
There are, of course, many shortcomings in our own work, but we can only devote our time and energy to our work at the moment.
至于物资怎么分配，我们没办法解决这个问题。
As for the material distribution, we can't solve the problem.
我们只能负责收，甚至很多仓库都已经满了。
We can only take care of the harvest, and even many warehouses are full.
分给谁？分多少？怎么分？我们都只能按照卫健委的指示，某某医院给多少。
Who is divided? How much? How much? We can only follow the Wei Bodyguard's instructions, the number of hospital.
南方周末：你们现在的工作情况如何？工作人员：有很多信息不对称，很混乱。
Southern Weekend: How are you doing now? Staff: There is a lot of information asymmetry and confusion.
昨天还有人在朋友圈里说，自己在武汉红十字会卸货的现场，她（一个带着口罩的女性）说，现在所有的社区医院都可以到红十字会来领救灾物资，导致昨天晚上我们红十字会的电话全部爆棚——因为各个社区都开着证明材料，要来红十字会领东西。
'All the community hospitals can now get supplies to the Red Cross, 'she said yesterday as she unloaded the goods at the Wuhan Red Cross.' Last night all our Red Cross telephones were busted because the communities were left with identification material and wanted to get things from the Red Cross.
南方周末：她是你们的工作人员吗？工作人员：我们工作人员不可能下达这种指示。
Southern Weekend: Is she a member of your staff? Staff: It is impossible for us staff to give such instructions.
我们这里的路本来就很窄，所有的社区医院都开着车来领物资，不是乱套了吗？我们也没有时间和精力去分辨她的消息来源和动机是什么，只能尽自己的能力做好本职工作。
Our road here is already very narrow, all the community hospitals drive to get supplies, is not a mess? We do not have the time and energy to distinguish her source and motive, can only do their job well.
我们现在很多员工都是通宵上班。
Many of our employees work all night.
南方周末：有消息称，武汉市红十字会收到的捐赠物资都堆积在汉阳国际博览中心，东西很多，但没人来搬。
Southern Weekend: It is reported that Wuhan Red Cross Society received donations in the Han Yang International Expo Center, a lot of things, but no one moved.
是真的吗？工作人员：真的，汉阳国际博览中心是我们的一个仓库。
Is it trueClerk: Really, Hanyang International Expo Center is one of our warehouses.
南方周末：为什么放在那儿，没有人去拿？工作人员：我们的职能就是收，我们没有权力去决定发。
Southern Weekend: Why put there, no one to take it? Staff: Our function is to collect, we do not have the right to decide to send.
南方周末：你们不能请人搬吗？工作人员：我们搬走？搬到哪里去呢？搬给医院？我们没有权力下发给医院。
Southern Weekend: Can't you hire someone to move? Staff: We moved? Where? To the hospital? We don't have the right to send it to the hospital.
比如说卫健委说今天拿十万个口罩出来，同济（医院）多少、协和（医院）多少，我们只能按照他们的指示去分配。
For example, Wei Jianshi said today to take out 100,000 masks, Tongji (hospital) number, Concorde (hospital), we can only follow their instructions to distribute.
我们不能去组织这些东西。
We can't organize these things.
南方周末：现在的援助工作有什么难点？工作人员：我代表个人观点，想说一个情况。
Southern Weekend: What are the difficulties in the present aid work? Staff: On behalf of my own point of view, I would like to say one thing.
现在是个非常时期，国家这种救灾物资属于特殊物资，被政府管控。
Now is an emergency, the state of this kind of relief supplies are special goods, the government control.
但是有个问题，以前，所有医院的物资都是买的，现在大部分都是捐献，就意味着这段时间内，所有的医院物资会越来越紧张，所有的原材料、口罩、手套会越来越贵。
But the problem is that, in the past, all the hospital supplies were bought, but now most of them are donated, which means that during this period, all hospital supplies will become increasingly tight and all raw materials, masks, gloves will become more expensive.
以前医院是可以买的，现在买不到了，怎么办？而且外面的物资想运到某个地方，运不到。
Before the hospital can be bought, now can not buy, how to do? And the outside of the material to some place, can not be transported.
为什么运不到？在很多地方，因为救灾物资不允许出境，或者不允许接收。
Why not? In many places, because relief materials are not allowed to leave the country, or not allowed to receive.
南方周末：不是有绿色通道吗？工作人员：如果是救灾物资、捐赠物资，是可以走绿色通道。
Southern Weekend: Isn't there a green channel? Staff: If it is a relief material, donated materials, you can take the green channel.
但比如说，某个医院想买十万个口罩，买不了。
But for example, a hospital that wants to buy 100,000 masks cannot buy them.
为什么买不了？因为它过不来。
Why not? Because it won't pass.
南方周末：现在物资只能以捐赠的形式到达武汉?工作人员：对，目前所有的物流都走特殊绿色通道，但以前传统的通道被打乱了，这是非常可怕的一个事实。
Southern Weekend: Now the materials can only reach Wuhan in the form of donation? Staff: Yes, at present, all the logistics take special green passage, but before the traditional channel was disrupted, it is a terrible fact.
我们希望借助政府和媒体的力量缓解我们的压力，解决正常的物流问题，正常的买卖也能够帮助疫情的控制。
We hope to use the power of the government and the media to relieve our pressure, solve normal logistics problems, normal trading can also help control the epidemic.
我希望，各个部门能够真正地正视这个事情，想尽一切办法，减少中间环节。
I hope that all departments can really look at this matter and do everything possible to reduce the intermediary.
能以达到目的为宗旨，以降低灾情、解决各种社会问题为前提的情况下，我们去做一些其他事情。
We can do something else with the aim of achieving the goal of reducing disaster situations and solving social problems.
只要对降低灾情有所帮助的政策和行为，政府机关各个部门、各个环节都应该承担起自己的责任。
All government departments and all links should shoulder their responsibilities as long as the policies and actions that help to reduce the disaster situation are helpful.
就像你问我那一句，为什么你们不能发物资？这是因为卫健委我们管不了，我们不承担分配的任务。
As you asked me that sentence, why can't you send materials? This is because the health care committee we can not control, we do not undertake the assigned tasks.
但你要说，物资捐到你那里去了，你怎么不管？你说的有道理，但是确实我们和卫健委、疾控中心、医院之间存在协调的问题，这个衔接协调不通畅，每到一个环节都有很多关卡，在灾情发生面前，这是不正常的。
But you have to say, the material donated to you, why don't you care? You are right, but it is true that there is a coordination problem between us and the Wei Bodyguard Commission, CDC, and the hospital.
我也希望各个部门能够紧密地衔接在一起，把这个事情尽快达到效率最大化。
I also hope that the departments can be closely linked together to maximize the efficiency of this matter as soon as possible.
南方周末：据“博爱江城”1月30日公布的数据，截至1月28日24:00，武汉市红十字会累计收到社会捐款3.987亿元，目前拨付指挥部5391.46万元用于疫情防控。
As of 2400 hours on January 28, the Wuhan Red Cross Society had received 398.7 million yuan in donations from the public, and 53.9146 million yuan was allocated to the headquarters for disease prevention and control, according to figures released by the Southern Weekend.
为什么拨款这么慢？工作人员：我们只能管收款，不能管发钱，发多发少往往不是红十字会能够决定的，我们只是中间部门，是执行部门。
Staff: We can only take care of the receipts, not the money. More often than not, the Red Cross doesn't decide what to do.
南方周末：你们把收款情况汇报上去，再由卫健委和指挥部来决定如何使用？工作人员：对，拨多少和给谁拨。
Southern Weekend: You report the receipt to the health committee and the headquarters to decide how to use it? Staff: Yes, how much and for whom.
除非是定向捐赠的话，我们会快一点，比如说某某单位想捐给医院5万元。
Unless it's a targeted donation, we'll give it to the hospital sooner, say, $50,000.
南方周末：武汉红十字会之后是否会公布款项使用明细？工作人员：任何一个单位不可能不透明不公开，我相信红十字会这次一定会公开透明处理，但是目前有难度，不能及时有效地对信息进行更新和处理。
Southern Weekend: Will Wuhan Red Cross Society announce the details of its use of the funds? Staff: No unit can be opaque and non-public. I believe the Red Cross will be open and transparent this time, but it is difficult to update and process the information in a timely and efficient manner.
今天还有人质疑红十字会的公告日期写错了。
Some people today also questioned whether the Red Cross announcement was dated incorrectly.
我们承认工作的疏忽，越忙越容易疏忽，我们确实太忙了。
We admit the neglect of our work, the busier and more easily neglected. We are really too busy.
南方周末：款项明细会在稍晚的时候披露吗？工作人员：对，可能在疫情结束或者得到控制之后，肯定对每一个捐款者有一个负责的交代。
Southern Weekend: Will the details be disclosed later? Staff: Yes, it is possible that after the outbreak is over or under control, there will be accountability to every donor.
最后，我们也希望通过媒体，能够解决正常的物流问题，缓解我们的压力，目前有很多的民间组织、正常买卖，他们也能够帮助疫情的控制，只要是对控制疫情有所帮助的行为，我们都应该去支持，而不是去给他设置阻碍。
Finally, we also hope that through the media, we will be able to solve the normal logistics problems and relieve our pressure. At present, there are a lot of civil organizations, normal trading, and they can help control the epidemic.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉市红十字会工作人员： “我们的职能就是收，我们没有权力去决定发”。
Wuhan Red Cross staff: "Our function is to accept, we do not have the right to decide to send."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉市红十字会工作人员： “我们的职能就是收，我们没有权力去决定发”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
