湖北换帅：抗疫迎来大考。
Hubei change Shuai: Anti-epidemic ushered in big examination.
周群峰 徐天​。
Zhou Qunfeng Xu Tianji.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
对应勇和他的新搭档们而言，他们的大考才刚刚开始1月20日，在上海市人民政府的记者招待会上，上海市市长应勇在回答记者提问时表示，上海高度重视新型冠状病毒肺炎防控工作，加强了对一些可疑病例的甄别和筛选，对一些可疑病例人员、密切接触的人员也采取了相应的防治措施，一旦发现此类确诊病例，将依法依规及时向社会公布。
In response to a question from reporters at a press conference of the Shanghai Municipal People's Government on January 20, Shanghai Mayor Yingyong said that Shanghai attaches great importance to the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia.
2月13日，应勇赴湖北任省委书记.摄影/本刊记者 汤彦俊湖北换帅：抗疫迎来大考本刊记者/周群峰 徐天发于2020.2.24总第936期《中国新闻周刊》湖北是抗击新冠疫情的主战场。
February 13, Yingyong to Hubei as the secretary of the provincial party. Photography / this print reporter Tang Yanjun Hubei Shuai Shuai: This issue of the Journal of Anti-epidemic Journalist / Zhou Qunfeng Xu Tianfa in 2020.2.24 General No. 936 "China News Weekly" Hubei is the main battleground of the fight against the new crown epidemic.
2月13日，湖北省政坛发生重要人事调整——省委书记与武汉市委书记双双迎来新面孔。
On February 13, important personnel adjustments took place in Hubei Province, ushering in new faces for both the provincial party secretary and the Wuhan party secretary.
当天，湖北召开全省领导干部会议，中央组织部副部长吴玉良出席会议，并宣布中央决定：应勇同志任湖北省委委员、常委、书记；王忠林同志任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉市委书记。
On the same day, a meeting of leading cadres was held in Hubei Province. Wu Yuliang, vice-minister of the Central Organization Department, attended the meeting and announced the central government's decision to appoint Comrade Ying Yong as a member, standing committee and secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee.
此前，湖北省委书记、武汉市委书记分别由蒋超良和马国强担任。
Previously, Hubei provincial party secretary, Wuhan party secretary by Jiang and Ma Guoqiang respectively.
对于这次人事调整，坊间用一个形象的说法来描述——“走马换蒋”。
To this personnel adjustment, the fable uses an image to describe - "walk horse to change Chiang".
履新湖北前，应勇任上海市委副书记、市长；王忠林为山东省委常委、济南市委书记。
Before taking on the new Hubei, Yingyingshanghai deputy secretary, mayor; Wang Zhonglin for Shandong Provincial Committee, Jinan party secretary.
同日对一省及其省会城市党委一把手进行调整的做法非常罕见。
On the same day to a province and its provincial capital city party committee leader to adjust the practice is very rare.
吴玉良称，这次调整是中央从大局出发，根据疫情防控工作需要和湖北省领导班子实际，经过通盘考虑、慎重研究决定的。
Wu said the adjustment was based on the overall interests of the central government, the needs of prevention and control of the epidemic and the reality of the leadership in Hubei Province.
随着应勇的赴鄂履新，湖北正式进入“应勇时间”。
With Yingyong to Hubei, Hubei officially entered "Yingyong time."
上任首日，他就连开了3场会。
On his first day in office, he met three times in a row.
参加完全省领导干部会议，当天下午他主持召开专题会，研究部署下一阶段防控措施。
He attended a meeting of leading cadres from all provinces, and in the afternoon he hosted a special meeting to discuss the next stage of prevention and control.
之后，他又在武汉市召开的领导干部大会上发表讲话，并强调“希望大家以实际行动支持王忠林的工作”。
Later, he spoke at the conference of leading cadres in Wuhan, and stressed that "we hope you will take concrete actions to support Wang Zhonglin's work."
履职后，应勇在多个公开场合表示：“疫情防控是一场大考，也是一场大战，狭路相逢勇者胜！”“省委书记这个职务是沉甸甸的责任和千钧重担，对我也是个重大的考验。
"The prevention and control of the epidemic is a great test as well as a great war," Yingyong said in a number of public forums. "The position of provincial party secretary is a heavy responsibility and a great burden on me.
”当下，湖北疫情仍然异常严峻，复杂多变。
At present, the epidemic situation in Hubei is still extremely serious and complicated.
对应勇和他的新搭档们而言，他们的大考才刚刚开始。
For Yong and his new partners, their big test is only just beginning.
2月11日，一队准备进入武昌方舱医院执勤的民警在防护服外粘贴警察标志。
On 11 February, a group of civilian police officers preparing to enter the Wuchang Fang Hospital posted police insignia outside the protective clothing.
摄影/湖北日报 魏铼“英勇”赴鄂应勇生于1957年11月，浙江仙居人。
Photography / Hubei Daily Wei rhenium "heroic" to Hubei Yingyong born in November 1957, Zhejiang Xianshu people.
公开资料显示，他担任过派出所副所长、镇长、台州行署公安处处长、绍兴市公安局长，浙江省公安厅党委副书记、副厅长，浙江省纪委副书记、省监察厅长等职；2006年，任浙江省高院院长，成为一名省部级干部。
According to public information, he held the posts of deputy director of police station, mayor, head of public security department of Taizhou administration, director of public security of Shaoxing city, deputy secretary and deputy director of the party committee of Zhejiang Province public security bureau, deputy secretary of discipline committee of Zhejiang Province and provincial inspector general.
一年后，他的仕途转入上海，担任上海市高级人民法院党组书记、院长。
A year later, his career was transferred to Shanghai as secretary and president of the Shanghai Higher People's Court.
2013年4月起，任上海市委常委、组织部长，后又任上海市委副书记。
Since April 2013, he has been a permanent member of the Shanghai Municipal Committee, Minister of Organization and later Deputy Secretary of the Shanghai Municipal Committee.
2016年9月，兼任上海市常务副市长，2017年1月任上海市市长。
In September 2016, she also served as the Deputy Mayor of Shanghai, and in January 2017, as Mayor of Shanghai.
近几年上海两会后，上海市长应勇都要和中外记者见面回答媒体提问。
In recent years, Shanghai Mayor Yingyong will meet with Chinese and foreign journalists to answer media questions.
《环球时报》援引一位外媒记者的印象称，应勇记忆力非常好，对一系列数字熟稔在心。
Yingyong has a very good memory and is familiar with a range of numbers, the Global Times quoted a foreign-media reporter as saying.
1月20日晚，上海确认首例输入性新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例。
On the night of January 20, Shanghai confirmed the first confirmed case of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection.
新冠肺炎蔓延到上海后，应勇担任上海新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组组长。
After the spread of Newly Coronavirus pneumonia to Shanghai, Yingyong was the leader of the new-style coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and control team.
2月1日，他主持召开专家座谈会时提出，只有勇于接受监督的政府才是不懈怠的政府，只有勇于接受批评的政府才是不断进取的政府。
On February 1, he chaired a panel of experts who suggested that only a government that was willing to accept scrutiny was an indefatigable government, and that only a government that was brave enough to accept criticism was an aggressive one.
在上海抗疫时，从基层一步步成长起来的应勇，特别重视基层的抗疫工作。
In the Shanghai anti-epidemic, from the grass-roots step by step up to Yingyong, pay special attention to grass-roots anti-epidemic work.
他多次和医疗专家、基层代表面对面会谈，听取对防控疫情工作的意见建议，表示要重视基层工作的重要性，切实减轻基层负担，多为基层解决困难。
He held face-to-face meetings with medical experts and grass-roots representatives to hear their opinions and suggestions on the prevention and control of the epidemic.
在一次专题座谈会上，他表示，“请大家直奔主题，谈谈基层开展疫情防控工作遇到什么问题，还有哪些困难，有什么好的经验和建议。
At a symposium, he said, "Let's get to the point and talk about what's going on at the grass-roots level, what are the difficulties and what are the good experiences and recommendations.
”2月11日，应勇在上海市疾病预防控制中心主持召开专题会，研究新冠肺炎科研攻关和大数据助力精准防控等工作。
On February 11, Yingyong hosted a special conference at the Shanghai Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to study research challenges and precision control of new crown pneumonia.
两天后，他离沪赴鄂。
Two days later, he left Shanghai for Hubei.
应勇说，从踏上荆楚大地的那一刻起，他就成为湖北的一分子，与湖北人民同呼吸、共命运。
Yingyong said that from the moment he set foot on the ground of Jingzhou, he became a part of Hubei, breathing and sharing destiny with the people of Hubei.
“我将和全省广大干部群众一起，同心同德、众志成城，坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战，不负党和人民的重托和期望。
"I will work with all cadres and masses throughout the province to win the battle against epidemic prevention and control and to live up to the high trust and expectations of the Party and the people.
”有分析认为，从电视画面看，在上海抗疫时，应勇大部分时候都戴着普通的外科口罩，只有在走进上海市公共卫生临床中心时，会戴上医用防护口罩。
"Some analysts believe that when shown on television, Ying Yong was wearing a normal surgical mask most of the time during the Shanghai epidemic and would only wear a medical mask when he walked into the Shanghai Public Health Clinic.
履新湖北省委书记后，他佩戴医用防护口罩露面的几率肯定会更多。
After assuming his duties as secretary of Hubei province's Communist Party, he is more likely to appear wearing a medical mask.
与应勇同日履新湖北的王忠林，生于1962年8月，山东费县人，比应勇年轻5岁，毕业于华东政法学院法律系刑法专业。
Wang Zhonglin, born in August 1962, from Fei County, Shandong Province, is five years younger than Ying Yong. He graduated from the Law Department of East China Political Science and Law School.
大学毕业后，他到山东枣庄市公安局工作，与应勇一样，也是一名从基层走出来的干部，也有长期的政法经验。
After graduating from university, he worked for Zaozhuang Public Security Bureau in Shandong Province. Like Yingyong, he was also a cadre from the grass-roots level and had long experience in political and legal affairs.
他先从一名普通办事员做起，一步步成为枣庄市公安局党委委员、交警支队支队长，后又任枣庄市人民检察院副检察长、党组成员，枣庄市委常委，聊城市市长，山东省发改委主任，济南市长等职。
Starting from an ordinary clerk, he gradually became a member of the Zaozhuang Public Security Bureau, the head of the traffic police, and later the deputy procurator of the Zaozhuang People's Procuratorate, a member of the Party group, the Zaozhuang Municipal Standing Committee, Liaocheng City Mayor, Shandong Development and Reform Commission Director, Jinan Mayor.
2018年任山东省委常委、济南市委书记。
In 2018, Shandong Provincial Standing Committee, Jinan party secretary.
1月24日是大年除夕，公开报道显示，从这天开始，王忠林就一直深入在一线抓新冠肺炎防控工作，范围覆盖社区、车站、工厂等区域。
On January 24, the eve of the Lunar New Year, public reports showed that Wang Zhonglin had been working hard to prevent and treat pneumonia in the first line, covering communities, stations, factories and other areas.
济南多位政商人士告诉《中国新闻周刊》，王忠林非常敬业，在济南他给人留下的印象是，性格直爽开朗，作风硬朗，执行力超强。
Many political and business people in Jinan told China News Weekly that Wang Zhonglin is very dedicated, and in Jinan he left the impression that his character is open-minded, hard-headed style, super-strong execution.
他调研时经常采取“四不两直”的方式，即不发通知、不打招呼、不听汇报、不用陪同接待，以及直奔基层、直插现场。
His research is often carried out in a "straight-forward," unannounced, unannounced, unescorted reception, and straight to the grass-roots level.
一位资深媒体人称，有时王忠林会批评人，甚至批评得还很严厉，但他也只是对事不对人。
'Sometimes Wang Zhonglin criticizes people, even harshly, but he just doesn't do things right, 'says a senior media official.
如果事后他感觉批评得让别人产生过多心理压力，哪怕对方只是一名科员，他也会打电话或者当面给当事人解释一下，让别人放下心理包袱。
If afterwards he feels that his criticism is causing him too much psychological pressure, even if the other person is only a member of the staff, he will call or explain to the client personally, let others off the psychological burden.
公开报道显示，在济南指挥抗疫时，王忠林以“四不两直”方式，先后7次到城市出入口、车站、企业、社区、医院、疾控中心、农贸市场、零售药店、集中隔离点等近30个重点防控地区现场督导，协调解决问题。
Public reports show that when Jinan directed the fight against epidemic, Wang Zhonglin went to the city's entrances and exits, railway stations, enterprises, communities, hospitals, CDC, farmers' market, retail pharmacies and centralized quarantine points on seven occasions to supervise and solve problems on the spot in nearly 30 key control areas.
2月11日，是王忠林最后一次在济南公开露面，这一天，他戴着口罩，亲身深入小区、药店、留观点，督导疫情防控工作。
On Feb. 11, the last time Wang appeared in public in Jinan, he wore a mask and went deep into the community, pharmacies and views to oversee disease control.
两天后，他以武汉市委书记身份亮相湖北。
Two days later, he appeared as Wuhan city party secretary Hubei.
这也是他首次跨省异地交流任职。
It was his first inter-provincial exchange.
应勇履新当天，召开专题会时连说了六个“要点”：要突出重点，抓住当前防控工作的主要矛盾和矛盾的主要方面，及时补齐短板和薄弱环节；要全力以赴抓好阻隔，阻止疫情扩散蔓延，控制源头是关键；要把防控力量下沉社区，全面实施小区适度封闭式管理，强化属地责任、强化小区防控、强化群防群控，看好自己的人、管好自己的门、做好自己的事；要千方百计抓好救治，加大流行病学调查力度，做到深入细致排查全覆盖，把隐性感染者、确诊者的密切接触者、疑似病人和确诊病人找出来，不落一户、不漏一人，应隔尽隔、应收尽收、应治尽治；要不断优化诊疗方案，着力提高收治率治愈率、降低感染率病亡率；要保障医疗物资供应，以强有力的政策充分激活产能，扶持一批龙头企业、骨干企业及若干中小企业扩大产能、转产保供，进一步提高湖北省医护产品供给能力。
We should make every effort to improve the supply of medical materials, prevent the spread of the epidemic and control the source of disease.We should make every effort to improve the supply of medical materials, prevent the spread of the epidemic and control the source of infection.
上述六个“要点”涵盖了救治、阻隔、物资保障等抗疫三大方面内容。
The six "key points" covered the treatment, isolation, material security and other three aspects of the epidemic.
这也被认为是未来湖北抗疫中的主要方向。
This is also considered to be the main direction in the fight against epidemic in Hubei Province.
当日下午，在武汉市召开领导干部大会上，应勇评价新任武汉市委书记王忠林：他政治素质好，组织领导能力强，基层历练经验丰富，熟悉经济工作和城市管理，处事果断，勇于担当，勤勉务实，为人正派。
On the afternoon of the same day, at the meeting of leading cadres in Wuhan, Yingyong evaluated the new Wuhan Communist Party secretary, Wang Zhonglin: He has good political qualities, strong organizational leadership, experienced grass-roots experience, familiarity with economic work and urban management, resolute, responsible, industrious, pragmatic and decent.
应勇和王忠林履新湖北的首日，他们面对的是一组极为严峻的数字：2月13日0时至24时，湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例4823例（含临床诊断病例3095例），全省新增病亡116例（含临床诊断病例8例）。
Yingyong and Wang Zhonglin on their first day in Hubei Province faced an extremely grim set of figures: between 0000 and 2400 hours on February 13, 4,823 new cases of pneumonia (including 3,095 cases of clinical diagnosis) were recorded in Hubei Province, and 116 new cases (including 8 cases of clinical diagnosis) were recorded in the province.
湖北省累计报告新冠肺炎病例51986例（含临床诊断病例15384例），重症7593例、危重症1685例。
A total of 51986 cases (including 15,384 cases of clinical diagnosis), 7,593 severe cases and 1,685 critical cases were reported in Hubei Province.
“湖北和武汉是打赢疫情防控阻击战的决胜之地，我们必须勇往直前。
"Hubei and Wuhan are the decisive places to win the battle against epidemic prevention and control.
”应勇称。
"Be brave.
2月12日，武汉市江岸塔子湖方舱医院开始收治患者。
Feb. 12, Wuhan city river bank tower lake cabin hospital began to treat patients.
天津医疗队的医生带领护士们进舱熟悉病房环境。
Doctors from the Tianjin medical team led the nurses into the cabin to familiarize themselves with the ward environment.
摄影/湖北日报 柯皓救治：力求做到“床等人”疫情暴发后，湖北在救治方面压力巨大，无序就医、床位紧张等问题突出。
Photo / Hubei daily Ko Hao treatment: strive to achieve the "bed and others" outbreak, Hubei in the treatment of huge pressure, disorder medical treatment, bed stress and other outstanding problems.
1月22日，湖北省副省长杨云彦介绍，武汉市为了应对目前发热病人因为无序就医可能带来的交叉感染和疾病传播，实行了发热病人集中就诊的新模式。
On January 22, the vice-governor of Hubei Province, Yang Yunyan, introduced a new model of intensive care for febrile patients in Wuhan in response to the cross-infection and spread of diseases caused by the disorder.
该模式也被称为“7+7”模式，即武汉市在城区同济医院、中南医院等7家大型医院附近选择了市汉口医院、市七医院等7家二级公立医院作为发热门诊的定点医院，转移病人、腾空病房全部用于接收发热病人。
The model, also known as the "7 + 7" model, means that Wuhan has selected 7 public hospitals, including City Hankou Hospital and City Seven Hospital, near 7 major hospitals, including Tongji Hospital and Zhongnan Hospital.
也就是说，武汉设置了7家定点医院，专门收治发热病人。
In other words, Wuhan set up seven designated hospitals, specialized in treating febrile patients.
从1月23日起，武汉所有发热在37.3℃以上的病人全部到这7家定点医院就诊。
From January 23, Wuhan, all patients with fever in 37.3 degrees Celsius above all to these seven designated hospitals.
同时安排了7家大型医院对口帮扶这7家定点医院，将定点医院除发热病人以外的其他病人接管。
At the same time, arrangements were made for seven major hospitals to assist the seven designated hospitals, which took over patients other than fever patients.
1月25日，中南医院重症隔离病房护士长马晶告诉《中国新闻周刊》，上述模式下，床位仍然非常紧张，危重患者每转出去一个，后面就有三四个排队进来。
On January 25, Ma Jing, head nurse of the intensive care unit at Zhongnan Hospital, told China News Weekly that beds were still tight, with three or four people queuing up behind them for every turn out.
此后，集中收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者的火神山医院、雷神山医院，以及收治确诊轻症患者的方舱医院等相继投入使用。
Since then, the central treatment of patients with new coronavirus pneumonia Shenshen Hospital, Lei Shenshan Hospital, as well as the admission of patients diagnosed with mild cases of the cabin hospital has been put into use.
原北京小汤山“非典”医院院长张雁灵，曾深入武汉疫情一线指导火神山医院和雷神山医院的建设工作。
Former Beijing Xiaotangshan "SARS" hospital director Zhang Yanling, has been in Wuhan epidemic first-hand guidance of the fire god mountain hospital and Lei Shenshan hospital construction work.
他告诉《中国新闻周刊》，武汉紧急建设的这两所医院有重要作用。
He told China News Weekly that the two hospitals, built by Wuhan as a matter of urgency, played an important role.
这两所医院的规模质量、设计的科学合理性等，都优于小汤山医院。
The scale quality and scientific rationality of the design of these two hospitals are superior to Xiaotangshan Hospital.
但是，因疫情形势严峻，床位紧张的问题仍未得到根本性解决。
However, due to the serious situation of the epidemic, the problem of the shortage of beds has not been fundamentally resolved.
2月14日，王忠林主持召开市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部视频例会。
February 14, Wang Zhonglin hosted the city's new crown pneumonia command video regular meeting.
他强调，当前武汉疫情防控形势仍十分严峻。
He stressed that the current situation of Wuhan epidemic prevention and control is still very serious.
要继续新建方舱医院，千方百计增加床位，配足配齐医护人员和医疗物资，科学优化救治流程，完善援汉医疗队各项服务，努力提高收治率和治愈率，力求做到“床等人”。
We will continue to build the new cabin hospital, make every effort to increase the number of beds, provide adequate medical staff and supplies, optimize the treatment process scientifically, improve the medical team's services, and strive to improve the admission rate and cure rate so as to achieve the goal of "bed and other people."
2月15日王忠林走进医院、社区、超市等处调研，并看望慰问一线医务工作者。
February 15 Wang Zhonglin into hospitals, communities, supermarkets and other places to investigate, and to pay tribute to the front-line medical workers.
王忠林在当天的武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部视频会上强调，在疫情防控工作中，落实要快、执行力要强，“我们每快一秒钟，就给更多的人带来希望。
Wang Zhonglin on the day of the Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Command video conference stressed that in the prevention and control of the epidemic, implementation should be quick, strong enforcement, "every second we bring more people hope.
”他还表示，要力争用3天时间，结合大数据手段，对居家患者进行地毯式、拉网式排查，摸清底数，实现“清底”。
He also said he would strive to use three days, combined with big data means, to home patients blanket, screen search, to find out the bottom, to achieve "bottom-up.
王忠林请各级领导干部换位思考，要把病人当作自己的兄弟姐妹，当作自己的父母亲人，要畅通求助渠道，注重接通率、处理率，一定要让群众的“救命热线”打得通、能有效。
Wang Zhonglin invites leading cadres at all levels to think, to treat patients as their brothers and sisters, as their parents, to unimpeded access channels, pay attention to the rate of access, processing rate, must let the masses "help hotline" work, can be effective.
2月15日上午，应勇来到武汉市金银潭医院、武汉客厅方舱医院、火神山医院、同济医院中法生态城院区，了解患者收治情况，看望慰问一线医护人员。
On the morning of February 15, Yingyong came to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Wuhan Living Room Fang Cao Hospital, Huoshen Mountain Hospital, Tongji Hospital, France Eco-City Hospital, to find out the patient treatment situation and visit the front-line medical personnel.
这是他接任湖北省委书记后首次调研。
It was his first investigation since taking over as secretary of Hubei Provincial Committee.
调研过程中，他得知很多医护人员长期超负荷工作时，叮嘱医院负责人：“医护人员是我们宝贵的人力资源，要尽一切可能保护大家的身心健康。
In the course of his research, he learned that many doctors and nurses are overworked for long periods of time and asked the hospital manager, "The healthcare personnel are our precious human resources and we should do everything possible to protect our physical and mental health.
”同日上午，国新办在武汉举行新闻发布会。
The new office held a news conference in Wuhan on the same morning.
国家卫健委党组成员、副主任、湖北省委常委王贺胜透露，截至2月14日24时，各地共派出217支医疗队，25633名医疗队员，这还不包括军队派出的医疗队和队员。
As of 2400 hours on February 14, 217 medical teams and 25,633 medical personnel had been dispatched from various places, not including medical teams and members of the PLA, according to Wang He-sheng, a member and vice-chairman of the Party committee.
调集了3个移动的P3实验室，其中在武汉市有181支医疗队，20374名医疗队员，其他城市有36支医疗队，5259名医疗队员。
Three mobile P3 laboratories were mobilized, including 181 medical teams in Wuhan city, 20,374 medical personnel, 36 medical teams in other cities and 5,259 medical personnel.
这些都大大超过了2008年汶川特大地震医疗救援的调动规模和速度。
All these greatly exceeded the scale and speed of medical relief efforts following the devastating Wenchuan earthquake in 2008.
中央还安排了19个省份采取“一省包一市”的方式来对口支援湖北省。
The central government has also arranged 19 provinces to provide assistance to Hubei province in the form of "one province, one city."
王贺胜还透露，目前，已经开放了9个方舱医院，有6960多张床位，在院患者达到5606名。
Wang also revealed that nine cabin hospitals have been opened, with more than 6,960 beds and 5,606 hospital patients.
下一步，将根据需要继续腾出医院部分的病房，征用部分场馆，改造为定点医院和方舱医院，确保已排查、确诊的患者和疑似患者都能够得到集中的收治，确保所有没有收治的患者人数清零。
The next step is to continue to vacate part of the hospital wards as needed, expropriate some of the facilities and convert them into designated hospitals and squatter hospitals to ensure that patients and suspected patients are treated centrally and that the number of patients who are not treated is zero.
国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉表示，以武汉市最早重症定点两家医院为例，金银潭医院和武汉肺科医院，现在患者的出院率已经达到了30％至39％。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Health Care and Health Administration, said the first two hospitals in Wuhan, the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Wuhan Lung Hospital, had discharged between 30 and 39 percent of their patients.
“这个数字给我们带来了极大的信心。
"This number gives us a lot of confidence.
”焦雅辉还称，方舱医院目前收治的都是确诊的轻症患者，把确诊的轻症患者收治到方舱医院，不会导致交叉感染的风险。
Jiao also said the hospital was treating patients with confirmed mild cases, and admitted to the cabin hospital would not pose a risk of cross-infection.
2月16日，湖北省委、省政府发布意见，要求各地加快核酸检测，做到确诊患者收治和疑似患者核酸检测当日清零。
On February 16, the Hubei Provincial Committee and the provincial government issued an opinion, asking all localities to speed up nucleic acid testing, so that patients admitted to diagnosis and suspected patients nucleic acid test day zero.
同日，应勇主持召开省防控指挥部指挥长会议，调整省防控指挥部组成人员及职责分工，省防控指挥部下设办公室和综合组、医疗救治与疾控组、物资与市场保障组、宣传组、社会稳定组等5个工作组。
On the same day, Yingyong chaired a meeting of provincial commanders of the Provincial Command of Prevention and Control to adjust the composition and division of responsibilities of the Provincial Command of Prevention and Control, which comprises five working groups, namely, the Office and Integrated Units, the Medical Treatment and Disease Control Unit, the Material and Market Security Unit, the Advocacy Unit and the Social Stability Unit.
此前的湖北省防控指挥部，下设工作组包括社会捐赠组、物资保障组、交通保障组等。
Previously, the Hubei Provincial Command of Prevention and Control, under the working groups including the social donation group, material security group, transportation security group.
在就任湖北省委书记当日，应勇就称，要保障医疗物资供应，以强有力的政策充分激活产能，扶持一批龙头企业、骨干企业及若干中小企业扩大产能、转产保供，进一步提高我省医护产品供给能力。
On the same day, Yingyong, secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, said to ensure the supply of medical supplies, fully activate production capacity with a strong policy, support a number of leading enterprises, backbone enterprises and a number of small and medium-sized enterprises to expand production capacity, conversion guarantee, further improve the supply of medical products.
2月18日下午，武汉市委书记王忠林在武汉百步亭怡康苑北区督导检查疫情防控工作，推动落实集中拉网式大排查。
On the afternoon of February 18, Wuhan city party secretary Wang Zhonglin in Wuhan Baibuting Yikang Yuan North District supervision and inspection of the epidemic prevention and control work, promote the implementation of centralized pull-out screening.
摄影/长江日报 周超阻隔：80多分钟发出三道封控令救治与阻隔是抗疫的两大关键环节。
Photo / Changjiang Daily Zhou Chaoguan: more than 80 minutes issued three blocking orders to cure and block is the two key links in the fight against the disease.
前者是“治”，后者是“防”。
The former is "rule" and the latter is "defense."
应勇履新后强调，社区是疫情防控最基础、最基层的单元，只有把小区守住，全社会防控才有更扎实的基础。
After Yingxin stressed that the community is the most basic, the most basic unit of disease prevention and control, only by holding the community, the whole society can have a more solid basis for prevention and control.
他称，要全力以赴抓好阻隔，阻止疫情扩散蔓延，控制源头是关键。
He said it was crucial to focus on containment to stop the spread of the epidemic.
要把防控力量下沉社区，全面实施小区适度封闭式管理，强化属地责任、强化小区防控、强化群防群控，看好自己的人、管好自己的门、做好自己的事。
We should fully implement the modest closed management of the community, strengthen territorial responsibility, strengthen community control, strengthen crowd control, watch over their own people, manage their own doors, and do their own things.
近日，湖北多市社区管控措施升级。
Recently, the city of Hubei community control measures upgrade.
2月13日，中央应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组会议明确：孝感、黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等的隔离救治措施。
February 13, the Central Committee to respond to the outbreak of pneumonia in the lead-up to the meeting: filial piety, Huanggang and other places to take the same isolation and treatment measures as Wuhan.
湖北和武汉要进一步强化离汉离鄂通道管控，切实做到内防扩散、外防输出。
Hubei and Wuhan should further strengthen the control of the passage from Han to Hubei, so as to ensure internal non-proliferation and external defense output.
同日，黄冈市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布紧急通告：从即日起，在全市范围全面升级管控措施，所有小区（居民点）一律实行全封闭管理。
On the same day, the Huanggang New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued an emergency notice: From now on, the city-wide upgrade control measures, all small (residential) areas are fully closed management.
此外，孝感市大悟县等多地亦实施全封闭管理。
In addition, filial piety Dawu County and other places also implemented full closure management.
近日，湖北多地还实施“战时管制”。
In recent days, Hubei Province also implemented "wartime control."
2月13日，孝感市云梦县新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部发布紧急通告，在云梦城区实施战时管制。
Feb. 13, Xiaoyan City Yunmeng County new coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command issued an emergency notice in Yunmeng City to implement wartime control.
通告明确，所有强行冲闯小区、庭院、楼栋、道路出入口设置的隔离、警戒、封控设施的居民，按照战时管理相关规定，一律拘留。
The circular made it clear that all residents who forcibly enter or leave isolated, guarded or sealed-off facilities in residential areas, courtyards, buildings and road entrances and exits shall be detained in accordance with the relevant provisions on wartime administration.
值得注意的是，这两日湖北省已进行了一系列疫情防控举措。
It is noteworthy that these two days Hubei Province has carried out a series of epidemic prevention and control initiatives.
目前十堰市张湾区、孝感市大悟县、孝感市云梦县等地均已宣布实施战时管制。
Shiyan City Zhangwan District, Xiaogan City Dawu County, Xiaoyan City Yunmeng County and other places have been declared wartime control.
上述几个地区的官方公告称，紧急实施战时管制，依据的是《治安管理处罚法》《传染病防治法》和《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》等相关法律法规。
According to the official announcements of the above-mentioned regions, the emergency operation of wartime control is based on the relevant laws and regulations, such as the Law on Public Security Administration Punishments, the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases and the Regulations on Emergency Situations in Public Health.
但中国人民大学公共管理学院公共财政与公共政策研究所教授、公共政策研究院执行副院长毛寿龙告诉《中国新闻周刊》，“战时”这个概念，并不是一个很严谨的词汇。
But Mao Shoulong, a professor at the Institute of Public Finance and Public Policy at the Renmin University of China and executive vice-president of the Institute of Public Policy, told China News Weekly that the concept of "wartime" was not a very strict term.
“这是用军事语言表达公共管理，但这不是法律用语。
"This is a military expression of public administration, but it is not legal language.
”毛寿龙认为，《传染病防治法》里，并没有这样的说法，“而是指疫情暴发时，政府有权对相关疫情采取管制措施。
According to Mao, there is no such term in the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act. "Rather, it refers to the right of the government to take control of the outbreak when it occurs.
”2月15日，武汉，大雪纷飞。
February 15, Wuhan, snow fell.
这天下午，应勇深入武汉市三个社区，检查社区疫情防控情况，看望慰问社区工作人员和志愿者。
That afternoon, Yingyong went to three communities in Wuhan city to check on the situation of community epidemic prevention and control, to visit community workers and volunteers.
水岸星城社区实行人员进出登记、凡进必测体温，应勇对此给予肯定，向基层社区工作者、志愿者表示敬意和感谢，还叮嘱工作人员通过微信群向居民转达问候。
The community of Water Shore Star City carried out check-in and check-in, take temperature test, should valiantly give recognition to grass-roots community workers, volunteers, and instruct staff to convey greetings to the residents through a micro-message group.
在黄鹂路社区，他详细了解机关干部下沉社区、网格化排查等情况。
Oriole in the community, he detailed understanding of the sinking community of organ cadres, grid screening and so on.
贺家墩社区东航小区实行严格的封闭管理，同时开辟购菜、外卖、快递临时存放点，居民所需由小区工作人员配送上门，自2月2日后无新增病例。
He Jia Tun Community East Airlines District implemented strict closed management, while opening up temporary storage points for vegetables, takeaway, express delivery, residents need to be delivered by community workers, no new cases since February 2.
《湖北日报》报道称，当天应勇与下沉社区的机关干部、社区工作者等交流时勉励他们，“要充分理解群众感受，受得了委屈、经得起埋怨，引导群众‘宅’在家，既是对自己负责，也是对他人负责，对社会负责。
Hubei Daily reported that Yingyong and the sinking community organ cadres, community workers and other exchanges exhorted them, "to fully understand the feelings of the masses, endure grievances, and guide the masses' home ', is responsible to themselves, others and society.
”调研结束后，应勇连夜主持省委常委会（扩大）会议，部署推进全省疫情防控工作。
After the research, Yingyong chaired the Provincial Standing Committee's (expanded) meeting overnight and deployed to push forward the province's epidemic prevention and control efforts.
会议提出，要加强分类管理，全力实施拉网式逐人筛查甄别，落实“四类人员”（隐性感染者、确诊者的密切接触者、疑似病人和确诊病人）管理措施，做到应隔尽隔、应收尽收、应检尽检、应治尽治；要全力加强社区管控，实行24小时最严格封闭管理措施。
The meeting suggested that taxonomic management should be strengthened, people-to-person screening should be fully implemented, and management measures should be implemented for "four categories of people" (hidden infections, close contacts of confirmed patients, suspected patients and confirmed patients).
一些社区干部也感觉到了近日机关干部下沉的力度。
Some community officials have also felt the strength of the recent sinking of their cadres.
武汉市江汉区唐家墩街道天门墩社区距离华南海鲜市场不足2公里，原先有26名社区工作者。
Tangjia Tun Street Tianmen Tun community in Wuhan City is less than 2 kilometers away from the South China seafood market, originally there were 26 community workers.
疫情之下，2人辞职，仅剩24人在岗位上，管着30多个小区、8135户居民，其中有不少老旧小区，社区工作人员普遍反映工作量繁重。
Under the epidemic, two people resigned, leaving only 24 people in their posts, running more than 30 small districts and 8135 households, many of which were old and old. Community workers generally reported heavy workloads.
2月16日，天门墩社区党支部书记郑青霞告诉《中国新闻周刊》，最近几天里，市一级、区一级相关机关的干部下沉到了她所在的社区，这些干部来自武汉市税务局、长江日报社等单位。
On February 16, Zheng Qingxia, secretary of the Tianmen Tun community Party branch, told China News Weekly that in recent days cadres from the municipal and district authorities, including Wuhan Municipal Taxation Bureau and Changjiang Daily News, had sunk into her community.
“两天里，来了32人报到。
Thirty-two people reported in two days.
另外，还有城管局、交通局安排的40余名工作人员，也陆续进入街道。
In addition, more than 40 employees of the city administration and transportation bureau have also entered the streets one after another.
这批干部多数是科员，到社区后听从社区的安排，值守、做宣传工作，帮着社区打各类电话。
Most of these cadres are officers who, upon arrival in the community, follow the arrangements of the community, are on duty, do publicity work, and help the community make various phone calls.
”“小区村庄百分之百实行24小时封闭管理”，是王忠林近期狠抓的一个重点。
"One hundred per cent of small villages are under 24-hour closed management," a key focus of Wang Zhonglin's recent relentless pursuit.
目标如何实现？他强调，要坚定不移加强源头管控。
How to achieve the goal? He stressed the need to firmly strengthen source control.
王忠林称，“喊空口号，搞形式主义的东西没有用。
"It is no use shouting slogans and practicing formalism," Wang said.
”他提醒各级干部，“疫情每拖一天，代价都是巨大的”， “疫情防控不好，其他发展改革稳定都是空谈。
He reminded cadres at all levels that "the cost of every day of the epidemic is enormous" and that "the disease is poorly controlled and other development reforms remain elusive."
”在2月15日上午国新办在湖北武汉举行的新闻发布会上，国家卫生健康委副主任、湖北省委常委王贺胜说，疫情防控到了最关键阶段，湖北武汉仍然是主战场，目前工作已经下沉至社区，确保不出现第二个武汉。
At a news conference in Wuhan, Hubei province on the morning of February 15, the vice-director of the National Health Commission and a standing committee member of the Hubei Provincial Party committee, Wang He-sheng, said the epidemic had reached its most critical stage.
湖北省人民政府网显示，2月16日，分别在15时46分、16时57分 、17时12分，发出三道关于城乡社区、村组封闭管理措施的重磅通知：《湖北省人民政府关于进一步强化新冠肺炎疫情防控的通告》要求：城乡所有村组、社区、小区、居民点实行24小时最严格的封闭式管理；对所有居民开展拉网式动态滚动筛查，做到“不漏一户、不落一人、不断一天”，确保全覆盖、无盲区。
On Feb. 16, 2008, at 15: 46, 16: 57 and 17: 12, Hubei Provincial People's Government issued three circulars on measures to further strengthen the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
对违反重大突发公共卫生事件I级响应管控措施、妨碍疫情防控工作的，由公安机关依法采取强制措施等。
In cases of violation of major public health emergencies, the public security organs shall take compulsory measures in accordance with the law.
《关于加强城市社区、小区封闭管理工作的通知》要求，所有小区、楼栋、门栋在保证消防安全的前提下原则上只保留一个出入口，住户无特殊情况一律不准外出，每户每3天派出1名人员外出购买生活必需品。
The Circular on Strengthening the Closed Management of Urban Communities and Districts requires that all small areas, buildings and gates should, in principle, have only one entrance and exit on the premise of ensuring fire safety, that households are not allowed to go out without exception and that one person per household is sent out every three days to purchase necessities.
《关于加强农村村组封闭管理工作的通知》要求，以自然村组（村湾）为单元实施硬隔离，原则上每个村组（村湾）保留一个出入口，安排人员加强值守。
The Circular on Strengthening the Closed Management of Rural Villages calls for hard isolation of natural village groups (Village Bay) units, with each village group (Village Bay) retaining, in principle, an entrance and exit point with enhanced staff presence.
非本村组（村湾）人员和车辆一律不准进入，每户每3天可派出一人购买必需生活用品和急需的农业生产资料。
No person or vehicle is allowed to enter the Village Section (Village Bay). Every three days, each household may send one person to purchase necessary daily necessities and urgently needed means of agricultural production.
对违反重大突发公共卫生事件一级应急响应管理规定的，由司法机关依法采取措施。
If a major public health emergency response management regulation is violated, judicial organs shall take measures in accordance with law.
当日，应勇又主持召开疫情防控视频调度会并强调，坚决防止疫情从城区向农村蔓延。
On the same day, Yingyong hosted a video epidemic prevention and control meeting and stressed that resolutely prevent the spread of the epidemic from urban areas to rural areas.
要清醒地认识湖北和武汉在全国疫情防控大局中的责任和分量。
We should clearly understand Hubei and Wuhan in the overall situation of national epidemic prevention and control responsibility and weight.
与全国其他省市相比。
Compared with other provinces and cities in China.
“我省市州疫情非常严重，除武汉外，确诊病例上千人的还有5个地区。
"The epidemic situation in provinces and cities is very serious. In addition to Wuhan, there are five regions where thousands of cases have been confirmed.
”湖北省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通告，要求省内各类企业不早于2月20日24时前复工。
Hubei province's Xinguan Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice requiring enterprises of all types in the province to resume work before 2400 hours before February 20.
此外，湖北省内大专院校、中小学、中职学校、技工院校、幼儿园延期开学。
In addition, colleges and universities, primary and secondary schools, vocational schools, technical colleges and kindergartens in Hubei Province were postponed.
具体开学时间，将根据疫情防控情况，经科学评估后确定，并提前向社会公布。
Specific school start time, according to the situation of disease prevention and control, after scientific assessment, and announced to the public in advance.
2月15日，武汉协和肿瘤医院改为定点医院收治病患，风雪中，医护、交警、公交及相关工作人员正在转运接收新冠肺炎患者。
On February 15, Wuhan Concorde Cancer Hospital was converted into a designated hospital for patients, snow, medical, traffic police, public transport and related staff are in transit to receive patients with new crown pneumonia.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓“疫情像一面镜子，照出干部的不同状态”在抗击疫情的同时，湖北官场的沉疴旧疾如何破解，也成为摆在应勇等人面前的一道考题。
Photo / Changjiang Daily Chen Zhuo "The epidemic situation is like a mirror, reflecting the different status of cadres." While fighting the epidemic situation, Hubei Guanyu Jiujiu has become a problem in front of Yingyong and other people.
应勇肯定了前一阶段湖北的防疫工作。
Yingyong confirmed the previous stage of Hubei epidemic prevention work.
他说，“前一阶段，湖北特别是武汉的广大党员干部，做了大量艰苦工作，付出了巨大努力。
"In the previous period, a great deal of hard work and efforts were made by the cadres of the broad Party members in Hubei, especially Wuhan," he said.
”从实施效果看，无论是此前采取的武汉封城决策、还是修建火神山医院、雷神山医院、方舱医院等，都取得了积极意义。
From the point of view of the implementation effect, positive results have been achieved in Wuhan Sealing Decision-making, in the construction of the Mount Huoshen Hospital, the Lei Shenshan Hospital and the Fang Cao Hospital.
但是多位当地官员的表现也颇受争议。
But the performance of a number of local officials has also been controversial.
1月27日，戴着口罩的武汉市长周先旺接受央视采访。
January 27, wearing a mask Wuhan City long Zhou Xianwang CCTV interview.
他称，“这次疫情，我们既有信息披露不及时的一面，也有我们利用很多有效信息来完善我们的工作不到位的一面。
"We have not only an untimely aspect of disclosure, but also a side where we are using a lot of valid information to improve where we are," he said.
传染病有传染病防治法，必须依法披露，作为地方政府，我获得授权以后才能披露。
Infectious diseases have infectious disease prevention and treatment law, must be disclosed in accordance with the law, as a local government, I can only be authorized to disclose.
”中国社会科学院一名专家告诉《中国新闻周刊》，周先旺所称不经授权，他作为武汉市长不能向社会公布疫情，的确有《中华人民共和国传染病防治法》作为依据。
An expert from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences told China News Weekly that Zhou Xianwang claimed that he, as mayor of Wuhan city, could not report the epidemic to the public without authorization, and indeed had the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases as the basis.
但是， 2007年8月30日第十届全国人民代表大会常务委员会第二十九次会议通过的《中华人民共和国突发事件应对法》中已经规定相关“预警”机制，并赋予当地政府充分的自主权。
However, the Emergency Response Law of the People's Republic of China, adopted at the 29th meeting of the Standing Committee of the Tenth National People's Congress on August 30, 2007, already provides for relevant "early warning" mechanisms and gives local governments full autonomy.
“如果武汉市政府在发现这类病例时，就应该知道有发生公共卫生事件的风险，立即依法启动公共卫生事件预警，而不是坐等授权，情况一定不像现在这样。
"If the Wuhan government finds such cases, it should know there is a risk of a public health event and immediately launch a public health emergency warning in accordance with the law instead of waiting for authorization, which is certainly not the case today."
”上述专家说。
'said the expert.
《中华人民共和国突发事件应对法》第四十三条规定：可以预警的自然灾害、事故灾难或者公共卫生事件即将发生或者发生的可能性增大时，县级以上地方各级人民政府应当根据有关法律、行政法规和国务院规定的权限和程序，发布相应级别的警报，决定并宣布有关地区进入预警期，同时向上一级人民政府报告，必要时可以越级上报，并向当地驻军和可能受到危害的毗邻或者相关地区的人民政府通报。
Article 43 of the Emergency Response Law of the People's Republic of China stipulates that local people's governments at or above the county level shall, in accordance with the relevant laws, administrative regulations and the power and procedures prescribed by the State Council, issue warnings of appropriate levels, decide and declare the areas concerned to enter an early warning period.
该专家称，此前武汉市政府，如果对法律灵活运用，完全可以先预警再上报，及时告知百姓对这种病毒，应该怎么防护。
The expert said that the previous Wuhan city government, if the flexible use of the law, can be early warning and then reported, timely inform the people about this virus, how to protect.
依照该法，哪怕是预警出现了偏差，也不会被追究责任。
Under the law, no one can be held accountable for any deviation from the early warning.
“武汉市政府在这次疫情中，及时预警是合法的，不预警是错的。
"In this outbreak, the government of Wuhan City, timely warning is legal, not warning is wrong.
”这位专家认为，武汉市政府最早应该在2019年12月29日前后，就应根据《中华人民共和国突发事件应对法》向社会宣布进入预警期。
The expert believes that the Wuhan government should announce an early warning period to the public under the Emergency Response Law of the People's Republic of China as early as around December 29, 2019.
之所以得出这个结论，他的依据是12月29日湖北省中西医结合医院开始向省、市、区疾控中心反映情况；湖北省和武汉市卫健委指示武汉市疾控中心、武汉金银潭医院和江汉区疾控中心到湖北省中西医结合医院开始流行病学调查。
On December 29, the Hubei Provincial Center for Chinese and Western Medicine began to report the situation to provincial, municipal and district CDC. Hubei and Wuhan Weijian committees instructed Wuhan CDC, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Jianghan District CDC to start an epidemiological investigation in Hubei Province.
可以认定，武汉市政府应该在这个时间点前后，已经可以得出“公共卫生事件即将发生或者发生的可能性增大”这一结论。
It can be concluded that Wuhan city government should be able to conclude that "public health events are imminent or more likely to occur" around this point in time.
此前，湖北还有多名官员公开表示“内疚、自责”。
Hubei also had a number of officials have publicly expressed "guilt, self-reproach."
时任武汉市委书记马国强在央视出镜时表示，“这一段时间我是内疚、愧疚、自责的心态。
"This time I feel guilty, guilty and self-reproach," said then-Wuhan party secretary Ma Guoqiang during a CCTV appearance.
我一直在想，如果我早一点决定，采取像现在严厉的管控措施，结果会比现在要好的，对全国各地的影响会小，也会让党中央、国务院少操心。
I have been thinking that if I had decided earlier to take drastic measures like the present one, the result would be better than it is now, with less impact across the country and less anxiety on the part of the Party Central Committee and the State Council.
”1月30日晚21时，湖北省召开新闻开发布会，时任湖北省委书记蒋超良鞠躬致歉，他称自己心情很沉重，向在这次疫情中失去生命的同胞表示深切的哀悼。
"When the press conference in Hubei Province was held at 21 p.m. on January 30, the then-Communist Party secretary of Hubei Province, Jiang Yuliang, apologized, said he was in a heavy mood and expressed his deep condolences to his compatriots who lost their lives in the outbreak.
“在这次疫情防控工作中，我们确实有一些地方采取了一些措施，虽然出发点是好的，但是工作方式和方法有些简单，我向大家表示歉意。
"It is true that we have taken some measures in some places in this epidemic prevention and control effort, and although the starting point is good, the working methods and methods are somewhat simple, and I apologize to all of you.
”蒋超良还表示要“深刻反思在这场地方治理体系和治理能力大考中的不足，认真汲取教训”。
Jiang also said he would "reflect deeply on the shortcomings of the local governance system and governance capacity test and learn from them."
疫情发生后，湖北省多名官员被问责。
Several officials in Hubei province were held accountable after the outbreak.
1月30日，黄冈市卫健委主任唐志红被免职。
On January 30, Huang Zhihong, director of the Huanggang Health Commission, was dismissed.
此前，中央指导组派出督查组赶赴黄冈市进行督查核查。
Previously, the Central Steering Group sent inspection teams to Huanggang City for inspection and verification.
当问到定点医院收治能力床位数量、核酸检测能力等问题是，唐志红等人被指一问三不知。
When asked about the number of hospital beds capacity, nucleic acid testing capacity and other issues, such as Tang Zhihong was accused of not knowing.
2月4日，湖北省纪委监委就湖北省红十字会有关领导和干部失职失责问题进行公开通报。
On February 4, the Disciplinary Commission of Hubei Province held a public briefing on the work of the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province on leadership and cadre dereliction of duty.
通报显示，免去张钦湖北省红十字会党组成员、专职副会长职务，并给予其党内严重警告、政务记大过处分；给予湖北省红十字会党组成员陈波党内严重警告、政务记大过处分；给予湖北省红十字会党组书记、常务副会长高勤党内警告处分。
The notice shows that the Party members and full-time vice-chairmen of the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province have been relieved of their posts and given severe warnings and severe punishment.
湖北省红十字会其他责任人员按照干部管理权限由有关党组织依纪依规处理。
Other responsible personnel of the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province shall be handled by relevant Party organizations according to discipline.
通报显示，经调查，湖北省红十字会有关领导和干部在疫情防控期间接收和分配捐赠款物工作中存在不担当不作为。
According to the circular, the leaders and cadres of the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province have not been guilty of inaction in receiving and distributing donations during the period of epidemic prevention and control.
被免职的前两天，张钦在接受《中国新闻周刊》专访时表示，湖北红会工作中确实有失误，今后还要加强工作（要求）。
In an interview with China News Weekly two days before his dismissal, Zhang said there had indeed been mistakes in the work of the Hubei Red Cross and that further work was needed.
2月10日，湖北省委常委会决定：免去张晋的省卫生健康委员会党组书记职务；免去刘英姿的省卫生健康委员会主任职务；上述两职务，由新到任的省委常委王贺胜兼任。
On February 10, the Standing Committee of the Hubei Provincial Committee decided to remove Zhang Jin from the post of secretary of the Provincial Health Committee and Liu Yingzi from the post of director of the Provincial Health Committee.
2月14日，王忠林主持召开武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部视频例会。
On February 14, Wang Zhonglin hosted a video regular meeting of Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Command.
值得注意的是，王忠林还把在济南主政时的“四不两直”的经验带到了武汉。
It is noteworthy that Wang Zhonglin also in Jinan when the "four not straight" experience was brought to Wuhan.
他表示，要严格督导督查，采取“四不两直”方式，严肃查处不担当不作为乱作为问题。
He said that strict supervision and inspection, take the "four do not straight" way, serious investigation and punishment do not bear as a problem.
要关心关爱一线工作人员，合理安排休息轮转，全力保障医务和防疫人员其他待遇；注重在疫情防控一线考察识别干部。
We should care for frontline workers, arrange rest and rotation properly, ensure other treatment of medical and epidemic prevention personnel, and pay close attention to identifying cadres on the front line of epidemic prevention and control.
多个迹象表明，湖北的官场构成，将在抗疫中进一步优化。
There are many indications that the composition of the official field in Hubei will be further optimized in the fight against the epidemic.
2月15日，应勇主持召开省委常委会（扩大）会议，他在会上打了一个形象的比喻：疫情就像一面镜子、一把尺子，能照射出干部的不同状态，衡量出干部的成绩优劣。
On 15 February, Yingyong chaired a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Provincial Committee (Enlarged), at which he presented an image of the epidemic as a mirror and a ruler that can illuminate the different states of cadres and measure their performance.
对干部既要严格要求又要关心爱护，使督查问责和激励关爱两手都硬起来、实起来，在疫情防控的第一线考察干部，努力在疫情防控的大考中交出一份合格的答卷。
Cadres should not only be strict in their demands, but also take care of them, so that both the supervision and accountability and the hands of motivation and care are hardened and consolidated.
次日，他在主持召开疫情防控视频调度会时又强调，要坚决杜绝形式主义、官僚主义，能打仗、打胜仗才是硬道理。
The next day, he hosted a video epidemic prevention and control meeting again stressed that to resolutely put an end to formalism, bureaucracy, war, victory is the absolute principle.
“要在火线上考察干部，对表现突出的表彰奖励、大胆使用，对玩忽职守、敷衍塞责的严肃追责问责”。
"We should research cadres on the line of fire, reward outstanding performance, make bold use of them, and make serious accusations of neglect of their duties and responsibilities."
此次进入湖北的官员中，除了有卫生专业背景的王贺胜，应勇、王忠林以及陈一新（2月8日，中央政法委秘书长陈一新出任中央指导组副组长，当日赶赴武汉）都有长期在政法政法系统工作的履历。
Apart from Wang He-sheng, Yingyong, Wang Zhonglin and Chen Xinxin (February 8, the Secretary-General of the Central Political and Law Commission Chen Xinxin became the vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group and traveled to Wuhan on the same day).
南开大学周恩来政府管理学院教授常健分析，应勇拥有上海这座超大型城市的管理经验，王忠林曾在山东多个地市担任一把手，有丰富的基层治理经验，这有助于湖北省委、武汉市委在今后工作中加强对各层级防控工作的管理协调，优化对具体问题的决策处理；王贺胜则是一位卫生系统专家型官员，又有国家卫健委工作经历，正为湖北省疫情防控注入更多“专业”力量。
Zhang Jian, a professor at the Zhou Enlai School of Government Administration at Nankai University, has management experience in Shanghai's mega-city. Wang Zhonglin has served as a leader in several cities in Shandong Province.
中央党校（国家行政学院）党建教研部副主任戴焰军在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时表示，湖北这次人事调整最重要的一点是，调整来的官员没有思想包袱，能放开手脚干事儿；新领导必定有新思路，他们的到来，能唤起民众期待，消除民众疑虑，振奋人心。
Dai Yanjun, deputy director of the Party Construction, Teaching and Research Department at the Central Party School (National School of Administration), told China News Weekly that the most important aspect of the personnel readjustment in Hubei Province was that the officials involved had no baggage and were free to do their jobs.
从前期工作表现看，说明此前湖北、武汉的领导班子，在打好防疫战的能力方面还需要加强。
From the previous performance, it shows that the previous Hubei, Wuhan leadership team, in the ability to fight against epidemic needs to be strengthened.
所以中央从实际出发，抽调更有优势的干部过去肩负领导责任，这对于加强防疫一线的指挥力量和领导力量有意义。
Therefore, from the practical point of view, the central government has drawn more advantageous cadres to shoulder leadership responsibilities in the past, which is meaningful for strengthening the command and leadership of the frontline epidemic prevention.
戴焰军表示，在关键岗位用好关键的人，是决定能否取得预期成绩的重要因素。
Dai said the use of key personnel in key positions was an important factor in determining whether expected accomplishments would be achieved.
湖北省委书记、武汉市委书记等都是关键岗位，这次调整后的官员中，多人具备丰富的政法工作经验，他们的到来，有助于为抗疫工作注入更多“法治力量”。
Hubei provincial party secretary, Wuhan party secretary, and so on are key posts, this adjusted officials, many of them have rich experience in political and legal work, their arrival will help to inject more "law and order forces" into the fight against the epidemic.
这也是基于现实考虑。
This, too, is based on realistic considerations.
因为在目前的这种特殊时刻，要动员社会各种力量，采取一些封城、封小区等非常规措施来解决问题。
Because at this special moment, we should mobilize all kinds of social forces and take some unconventional measures to solve the problem.
“他们的法治背景，能让他们在具体工作中，既贯彻中央领导精神，创造有利于防控疫情的外部环境，也能在处理各类问题过程中，严格依法办事，确保防疫工作有序推进。
"Their background in the rule of law enables them to implement the spirit of central leadership, create an external environment conducive to the prevention and control of the epidemic and, in dealing with all kinds of problems, act strictly according to law and ensure the orderly progress of epidemic prevention.
”戴焰军说。
"said Dai.
值班编辑：罗晓兰推荐阅读▼癌从“口”入，医生为何建议男人也打HPV疫苗？仿制药来了，“神药”瑞德西韦离中国患者还有多远？李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相。
Why do doctors recommend men take the HPV vaccine as well? Here comes the generic version, How far is Rhetoric from Chinese patients? Lee Shankwon: Negotiating a "grumpy" new foreign minister in North Korea.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北换帅：抗疫迎来大考。
Hubei change Shuai: Anti-epidemic ushered in big examination.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "时事政治";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北换帅：抗疫迎来大考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "对应勇和他的新搭档们而言，他们的大考才刚刚开始";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '癌从“口”入，医生为何建议男人也打HPV疫苗？',。
Why did doctors recommend that men also take HPV? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '癌从“口”入，医生为何建议男人也打HPV疫苗？',。
Why did doctors recommend that men also take HPV? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '仿制药来了，“神药”瑞德西韦离中国患者还有多远？',。
Has a generic drug come, and how far has Rhetsevius been with Chinese patients? & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '仿制药来了，“神药”瑞德西韦离中国患者还有多远？',。
Has a generic drug come, and how far has Rhetsevius been with Chinese patients? & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '​李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相',。
Mr Lee: Talking about the "irascible" new North Korean foreign minister & apos;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '​李善权：谈判“暴躁”的朝鲜新外相',。
Mr Lee: Talking about the "irascible" new North Korean foreign minister & apos;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
