浙江这个经济大区如何做到规上企业复工率100%？。
Zhejiang this economic region how to achieve the standard rate of enterprise return to work 100%?
中新浙里。
Zhongxin Zhejiang.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
一场疫情的突袭，让城市停摆。
An epidemic of raids has brought the city to a halt.
街上熙熙攘攘不复存在，过年热闹喜庆的氛围荡然无存，原本早就应该隆隆作响的工厂，不知所措地安静着……2月19日下午，浙江省举行新冠肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会，会上通报了疫情最新情况，在“五色法”疫情风险评估图中，浙江省杭州市余杭区的疫情风险等级从此前的较高风险下调至中风险！同时，包括未来科技城各个科技产业园以及余杭经济技术开发区的企业车间人员正在快速回流。
In the afternoon of Feb. 19, a press conference was held in Zhejiang Province on the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic. In the afternoon of Feb. 19, the risk level of the epidemic in Yuhang District of Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province was lowered from the previous high risk to medium risk.
疫情初期的未来科技城。
Future technology city in the early stages of the epidemic.
王珏 摄“疫情防控”和“复工复产”，是浙江的迫切需求。
Jui-chueh's "epidemic prevention and control" and "resumption of work" are urgent needs of Zhejiang Province.
杭州余杭作为浙江的经济大区，又是如何把这两个词完美结合并身体力行的？西奥电梯智能生产车间。
Hangzhou Yuhang, as an economic region of Zhejiang Province, how to combine the two words perfectly and practice them? Theo-elevator intelligent production workshop.
周铭 摄19日，余杭区晒出一份成绩单：截至2月19日17时，该区上报已复工企业45467家，企业复工率达94.5%，其中规上工业企业已复工1198家，复工率达100%……数字背后，是余杭按下了恢复经济“快进键”。
As of 1700 hours on February 19, the district had reported the resumption of 45,467 enterprises, with a return to work rate of 94.5%. Of these, 1,198 industrial enterprises have resumed work, with a return to work rate of 100%.
“健康码”先行先试、实施“防疫惠企28条”、千名干部进万企……眼下，余杭用一把把关键钥匙，打开着“两手抓、两手硬、两手赢”的大门。
"Health code" first try to implement "28 anti-epidemic enterprises," thousands of cadres into enterprises... At present, Yuhang with a key, open "two hands, two hands hard, two hands win.
守住疫情防控底线不松劲，坚持谋在前、做在前，通过一系列创新举措，当下，余杭对打赢疫情防控阻击战、经济发展总体战，拥有百般信心。
By taking a series of innovative measures, Yuhang has every confidence in winning the battle against epidemic prevention and control and the overall war on economic development.
“健康码”先行先试 复工专列“无微不至”在正式开复工前，余杭进行了大量前期的铺垫与准备，机制化严把复工关口。
"Health code" first try to resume work line "meticulous" in the formal opening before the resumption of work, Yuhang a large number of pre-paved and preparations, institutionalized into a strict return to work.
在区级层面，该区严格执行省市延迟企业开复工的通知要求，特组建区级专班，强化两级联动机制，抽调各部门人员组成24个区级专项督查小组256名干部，分赴24个平台、镇街开展现场排摸管控，重点掌握企业生产状态、员工情况等信息。
At the district level, the district strictly enforces the notification requirements for provincial and municipal enterprises to delay the resumption of work, organizes special classes at the district level, strengthens the two-level linkage mechanism and draws 256 cadres from 24 district-level special inspection teams from various departments to work on 24 platforms and townships to conduct spot control and control, focusing on the state of production and the situation of employees.
自上而下，余杭区各平台、镇街负责辖区跟踪管理，做到规上规下全口径排摸企业情况，全周期动态更新企业员工动向，全区域了解企业人员缺口，确保排摸行动“横向到边、纵向到底、不留死角”。
Top-down, Yuhang District platforms, Zhenjie responsible for the area of tracking management, to do regular full-caliber enterprises, dynamic updating of the enterprise staff movement, the region as a whole to understand the gaps in personnel, to ensure that the action "lateral, vertical, no dead end.
2月10日开始，余杭区对符合复工条件的企业（不含建筑施工企业、建设工地）实行分类分片分时段严格审批，有序复工。
Starting February 10, Yuhang District will strictly examine and approve enterprises that meet the conditions for resuming work, excluding construction enterprises and construction sites, and resume work in an orderly and orderly manner.
余杭经济技术开发区的贝达药业就属于符合要求的“白名单企业”之一。
Beida Pharmaceutical Industry of Yuhang Economic and Technological Development Zone is one of the white list enterprises that meet the requirements.
10日，首批上岗的职工，都需用“健康码”进行统一的“每日健康打卡”。
On the 10th, the first staff members, all need to use "health code" to carry out a unified "daily health card."
贝达药业员工通过“健康码”上班。
Al-Bayda employees work through "health codes."
周铭 摄贝达药业质管部的姚先生在上班前一晚注册了“健康码”。
Yao Ming from the Pharmaceutical Quality Management Department of Zhouming registered his "Health Code" the night before he went to work.
上班路上，他无接触地进行了“扫码+测温”完成身份查验。
On his way to work, he carried out an untouched "sweep code + temperature measurement" to complete the identification.
“这种智能扫码的方式既快捷又便捷，余杭的治理体系和治理能力真是越来越强了。
"This intelligent way of sweeping code is fast and convenient, Yuhang's governance system and governance capacity is really more and more strong.
”“健康码”是该区复工提前谋划部署的重要一招。
"Health code" is an important step in planning for the resumption of work in the area.
通过大数据的支撑，“健康码”能更加准确的掌握外来返乡人员的基本信息，及时做好隔离防护，提高防控效率。
Through the support of large data, "health code" can more accurately grasp the basic information of foreign returnees, timely do a good job of isolation protection, improve the efficiency of prevention and control.
在卡口体温测量如发现异常，工作人员还可以通过“健康码”第一时间上报给信息中心尽快对异常人员进行处理。
If abnormal temperature measurement at the mouth of the card, the staff can also be reported to the information center through the "health code" the first time to deal with abnormal people as soon as possible.
健康码运用。
Health code use.
周铭 摄随着各大企业相继复工，外地来余杭务工者的顺畅通行如何保障？“余杭欢迎您回家！”2月17日晚，G4391专列由成都抵达杭州。
With the resumption of major enterprises, how to guarantee the smooth passage of the migrant workers from Yuhang? "Yuhang welcomes you home!" On the night of February 17, the G4391 train arrived in Hangzhou from Chengdu.
这趟G4391专列上，属于余杭企业的有300余人，他们分属于80多家企业，且大多是制造业企业，包括东华链条、春风动力、银都餐饮设备、海纳威箱包、炬华科技、中亚布艺等，这些企业分布于余杭经济技术开发区、未来科技城、临平新城、良渚新城等多个重要产业平台。
This G4391 train belongs to more than 300 people belonging to more than 80 enterprises, most of which are manufacturing enterprises, including Donghua chain, spring wind power, silver dinning equipment, Heinaway bags, torches, Central Asian cloth art, etc., which are located in Yuhang Economic and Technological Development Zone, future Science and Technology City, Linping New City and Liangzhu New Town.
复工专列接送。
Return to work train transfer.
周铭 摄东华链条集团传动链事业部副总经理张随福说：“以往我们每年都会包下几辆大巴，送人员相对集中的几个省份员工回老家，没想到在当前新冠肺炎疫情的特殊时期，政府会想到‘开通复工专列’，落实得又这么快。
Zhang Suofu, vice-president of the transmission chain division of ZHOU Ming-hua chain group, said: "We used to contract buses every year to send workers back to their home provinces where people are relatively concentrated.
”无微不至的复工专列，也载着春天的希望一同驶来。
The meticulous train of returning to work came with the hope of spring.
此外，余杭东部与德清、海宁、桐乡接壤，地区之间人员往来十分紧密，有不少人在余杭企业上班，但居住在临近县（市）。
In addition, Yuhang East and the Deqing, Haining, Tongxiang border, between the people of the region is very close, many people work in Yuhang enterprises, but live in neighboring counties (cities).
面对这种情况，余杭主动协调海宁、桐乡、德清疫情防控指挥部，为居住地和工作地不一致且在“白名单”上的余杭企业员工，办理统一格式的通行证，各地各级卡口都予以认可，人员和车辆可快速通行。
Faced with this situation, Yuhang took the initiative to coordinate the Haining, Tongxiang and Deqing Disease Control and Prevention Commands to handle uniform laissez-passer for the employees of Yuhang enterprises whose places of residence and work are inconsistent and on the "White List."
这惠及在余杭工作的海宁、德清、桐乡等地员工约1.3万人。
This benefits about 13,000 employees in places such as Haining, Deqing and Tongxiang who work in Yuhang.
老板电器车间消杀。
Boss electrical workshop kill.
周铭 摄“防疫惠企28条”集中兑现 “超常规”减轻疫情冲击疫情当前，企业遇到困难成为了普遍现象。
ZHOU Ming-sheng "28 rule of epidemic prevention" focus on "extraordinary" to reduce the impact of the epidemic epidemic at present, enterprises encounter difficulties has become a common phenomenon.
余杭“绞尽脑汁”助企业渡过难关。
Vice Minister Fu Meets Vice Minister of Commerce (1)
在全面执行省市各类惠企政策基础上，该区进一步明确实施细则，出台“帮助企业复工复产”28条政策（下称“防疫惠企28条”），从攻坚抗疫难关、加大金融支持、减轻企业负担、保障生产经营、加大外贸支持力度等5个方面精准施策，以超常规的举措最大限度减少疫情冲击。
On the basis of the comprehensive implementation of various preferential policies in provinces and cities, the region has further clarified the implementation rules and issued 28 policies to help enterprises resume work and resume production (28 FIEs), so as to minimize the impact of the epidemic by strengthening measures to combat the epidemic, increase financial support, reduce the burden on enterprises, guarantee production and operation and increase foreign trade support.
出台“防疫惠企28条”后，余杭迅速落实兑现，集中政策相关部门，组建惠企财政政策集中兑现办公室，实行一个受理窗口、一条咨询热线、一套办理流程、一次申报兑现“四个一”机制，做到惠企政策兑现“只进一扇门”。
After the promulgation of the 28 regulations on epidemic prevention, Yuhang promptly carried out the implementation of the relevant policies, centralized the relevant departments, set up the centralized cashing office for the financial policies of the enterprises, implemented a reception window, a consultation hotline, a set of processing procedures and a declaration to fulfill the "four ones" mechanism.
办事人员正在余杭惠企财政政策集中兑现办公室。
Office staff is Yuhang Huihui fiscal policy centralized cash office.
周铭 摄浙江宝菱重工有限公司负责人沈建强算了笔帐：延期复工期间，余杭区供电公司帮他们办理了暂停变压器业务，可节省基本电费近2 万元。
Zhou Ming-She Zhejiang Po Ling Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. in charge of Shen Jianqiang calculated the Pen account: During the extension of the resumption of work, the Yuhang District Power Supply Company helped them suspend the transformer business, can save nearly 20,000 yuan in basic electricity costs.
复工复产后，还能享受区政府20%的“阳光补助”，再省4000 元。
Return to work and postpartum, can also enjoy 20% of the District Government "Sunshine Grant," and save 4000 yuan.
“省下来的钱，打算给员工们买口罩。
"With the money saved, I'm going to buy masks for my employees.
”因疫情防控需要，许多企业延迟复工。
Many businesses have delayed resuming work because of the epidemic's need for prevention and control.
为了让企业能安心延期，减轻停工期间的压力，余杭区供电公司通过电力大数据技术，监测余杭区企业复工复产电力指数，主动联系节前暂停企业，确认实际复工日期，为需要延期的企业延长暂停时间，免收延长时间内的基本电费，减轻企业负担。
In order to ease the enterprises' delay and reduce the pressure during the stoppage period, the Yuhang Power Supply Company monitors the power index of enterprises returning to work in Yuhang District by using power big data technology, proactively suspending enterprises before the festival, confirming the actual restarting date, extending the suspension period for enterprises needing extension, reducing the burden on enterprises.
办事人员完成惠企财政政策兑现后离开。
Office staff to complete the financial policy after cashing out.
周铭 摄除了通过免收电费减轻负担，余杭还加大了对企业的金融“输血”。
In addition to reducing the burden of free electricity charges, Yuhang has also increased the financial "blood transfusion" to enterprises.
短短3天时间完成授信资料报批，专门开辟防疫物资生产企业“绿色通道”，企业当即获得资金900万元，贷款利率远低于其他融资——这是近日发生在余杭一家科技型企业的“战疫贷”案例。
In a short period of three days, the company set up a special "green passage" for the production of epidemic prevention materials. The enterprise immediately got 9 million yuan, and the interest rate of the loan was much lower than other financing.
1月下旬，位于余杭经济技术开发区的杭州麦乐克科技股份有限公司在接到国家紧急物资配套需求通知后，第一时间响应号召，累计发货超过100万套红外测温敏感元器件，全力支持疫情防控工作。
In late January, Hangzhou Melok Technology Co., Ltd., located in Yuhang Economic and Technological Development Zone, was called upon to deliver more than one million sets of sensitive infrared temperature measuring devices in the first time after receiving the notice of state emergency needs, and fully supported the prevention and control of the epidemic.
然而随之企业遇到了“融资难”问题。
But then the enterprise encountered the "financing difficulty" problem.
对此余杭区经信局火速“牵线搭桥”，当晚中国银行余杭支行就决定：对疫情防控物资保障企业开启绿色通道，提供授信支持，火速解决了企业流动资金短缺的实际困难，帮助企业顺利完成疫情保障重要物资的生产。
At the same time, the Yuhang branch of the Bank of China decided to open a green channel and provide credit support to enterprises engaged in the prevention and control of epidemic prevention and control materials, so as to quickly solve the practical difficulties of enterprise liquidity shortage and help enterprises successfully complete the production of important materials.
这样的案例在余杭不胜枚举。
Such cases are too numerous to enumerate.
“防疫惠企28条”出台仅两日内，余杭组建的惠企财政政策集中兑现办公室就完成368户企业2亿元财政扶持资金拨付，真正为企业雪中送炭。
In only two days after the promulgation of the 28-rule policy, the Huihang Financial Policy Center set up by Yuhang completed the disbursement of 200 million yuan in financial support funds for 368 enterprises, which has really helped the enterprises.
此外，余杭区委人才办、区人力社保局还分别针对人才服务、就业稳定出台“温情十条”“稳定就业十项举措”，全方位保障企业复工，助力企业加快达产。
In addition, the Yuhang District Personnel Office and the District Manpower and Social Security Bureau have also issued "Ten Measures for Gentle Feeling" and "Ten Measures for Stabilizing Employment," respectively, to guarantee the resumption of work in all aspects and to help enterprises reach output.
惠企财政政策兑现第一单。
First order of fiscal policy cashed by Huizhou enterprises.
周铭 摄千名干部进万企 上门服务精准施策春节一过，杭州嘉溢制衣有限公司原定有两笔大额订单要发货，共计45万件衣服，涉及金额近2500万元。
As soon as the Spring Festival was over, Hangzhou Jiayin Garment Co., Ltd. was to place two large orders totalling 450,000 pieces of clothing worth nearly $25 million.
但受疫情影响，企业延期复工，运货车辆也因交通管制而无法进入余杭。
However, affected by the epidemic, enterprises have postponed the resumption of work, freight vehicles due to traffic control and can not enter Yuhang.
嘉溢制衣总经理丁永国说：“衣服销售有季节性，若不能在规定期限内发货，客户退单或改空运，公司将损失近千万元。
"Clothing sales are seasonal," said Ding Yongguo, general manager of Jiayin Garment. "If the goods cannot be delivered within the stipulated time limit, customers will lose nearly ten million yuan by returning the order or changing the air freight.
”了解这一情况后，2月8日，余杭区组织驻企服务员主动上门，指导企业开展复工申请，并做好复工防疫措施。
After learning about the situation, on February 8, staff stationed in Yuhang District volunteered to come to the company to instruct them to apply for resumption of work and take measures to prevent epidemic diseases.
针对车辆无法通行一事，驻企服务员及时雨企业沟通，收集车辆基本信息后上报相关部门审批，为嘉溢制衣开具了车辆“通行证明”。
In view of the impassability of vehicles, resident waiters communicate with enterprises to collect basic information on vehicles and report to the relevant departments for approval, and issue "pass certificates" for vehicles overflowing.
如此贴心举措的背后，是余杭干部在疫情面前肩负起的担当使命。
Behind this intimate move, is the Yuhang cadres in the face of the epidemic shoulder to shoulder the mission.
为推进企业有序复工，2月7日余杭发布通告，建立复工指导员、防疫指导员“两员制度”，即企业服务员开始主动上门，帮助企业复产复工。
To promote the orderly resumption of work in enterprises, Yuhang issued a circular on February 7, establishing the "two-member system" for supervisors and epidemic prevention instructors, whereby enterprise servants began to come forward to help enterprises resume production.
在驻企服务员的帮助下，2月10日200位嘉溢制衣本地员工第一时间到岗，恢复基本产能。
With the help of the resident waiters, 200 local employees overran the garment industry on February 10 and returned to work immediately to restore basic capacity.
开工当天，嘉溢制衣完成了6辆集装箱车的装运，25万件衣服准时发货；2月17日，20万件衣服也装箱完成，5辆集装箱车发车开往上海国际码头。
On the opening day, Chia Yin completed the loading of six container trucks and delivered 250,000 pieces of clothing on time; on 17 February, 200,000 pieces of clothing were also packed and five container trucks left for the Shanghai International Terminal.
在现有“两员制度”基础上，余杭还进一步整合人员力量、工作职责，充实亲清服务员（驻企服务员）队伍，把服务企业和防控疫情结合起来、把纾难解困与化纷止争结合起来，把服务更加直接高效地落实到企业急需处，以高质量的服务最大限度帮助企业渡过难关。
On the basis of the existing "two-member system," Yuhang further integrates personnel strength and work responsibilities, enriches the ranks of personal assistants (resident waiters), integrates service enterprises with prevention and control of the epidemic, solves difficulties and resolves disputes, and delivers services more directly and efficiently to enterprises in urgent need, thus helping them to tide over difficulties with high-quality services.
微光电子生产流水线启动。
Low-light electronics production line started.
周铭 摄2月17日，杭州微策生物技术有限公司员工吃上了园区食堂送来的热腾腾的饭菜。
On Feb. 17, employees of Hangzhou Micro-Policy Biotechnology Co. Ltd. ate hot meals from the campus canteen.
董事长杨蓉心里的一块大石头落了地。
A big stone fell from Chairman Yang Rong's heart.
“我们是园区第一家正式复工的企业，如果食堂为我们一家开放，肯定会亏本。
"We are the first enterprise to be formally reinstated in the park, and if the canteen is open to us, it will definitely lose money.
”余杭经济技术开发区亲清服务员（驻企服务员）得知杨蓉的烦恼后，排摸了附近企业需求，第一时间联系园区食堂，协调解决员工就餐问题。
"Yuhang Economic and Technological Development Zone personal waiter (resident waiter) learned of Yang Rong's annoyance, felt the nearby enterprise demand, first contact the campus canteen, coordinate to solve the problem of staff repast.
从17日开始，食堂同时为四家企业提供送餐服务，既解决了企业的共性问题，也降低了食堂运营成本。
From the 17th, canteen for four enterprises at the same time to provide food service, not only solve the common problems of enterprises, but also reduce the canteen operating costs.
微光电子生产流水线启动。
Low-light electronics production line started.
周铭 摄目前，余杭区向1446家企业派驻亲清服务员（驻企服务员），深入生产经营一线开展服务。
At present, Yuhang District to 1446 enterprises to send personal cleaning (resident waiters), in-depth production and operation of the front-line services.
此外余杭对小微企业和小微企业园、创业孵化器等上万家各类企业园区，由属地镇街、平台派驻“一对一”或“一对多”的亲清服务员（驻企服务员），通过上门服务或集中服务，为企业提供有力、及时、温暖的“三服务”。
Besides, Yuhang provides powerful, timely and warm "three services" to enterprises through door-to-door service or centralized service to thousands of enterprise parks of various types, such as small and micro-enterprise parks and business incubators.
“要继续完善服务机制，全区干部要把服务企业复工复产作为当前一项重中之重的工作来抓，坚持问题导向、综合施策，切实解决企业复工复产中遇到的开工难、招工难、产业链联动难、物资运输难、资金周转难、保外贸订单难等‘七难问题’，给企业复工达产提供更加精准有效的服务。
"To continue to improve the service mechanism, all cadres in the region must give top priority to returning service enterprises to work, adhere to problem-oriented and comprehensive policies, and effectively solve the seven difficult problems of starting, recruiting workers, linkage of industrial chains, transportation difficulties, cash flow difficulties and difficulties in securing foreign trade orders.
”杭州市委常委、余杭区委书记张振丰说。
Hangzhou Municipal Standing Committee Secretary Zhang Zhenfeng said.
这趟开往春天的列车将沿着这条轨道一路向前！复苏中的杭州市余杭区临平新城。
The spring-bound train will go all the way along this track, the resurgent Linping new city of Hangzhou Yuhang District.
王珏 摄来源：中国新闻社浙江分社作者：张煜欢编辑：骆思宇本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场。
Jue Wang Source: China News Agency Zhejiang Branch Editor: Locke Yun represents the author's view, not the print position.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
浙江这个经济大区如何做到规上企业复工率100%？。
Zhejiang this economic region how to achieve the standard rate of enterprise return to work 100%?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "浙江这个经济大区如何做到规上企业复工率100%？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How did Zhejiang & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这趟开往春天的列车将沿着这条轨道一路向前！";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; This spring-bound train will go all the way along this track!;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
