​武汉战“疫”的攻坚时刻。
The Critical Moment of the "Epidemic" in Wuhan.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
基层工作的压力不断加大2月6日，武汉市蔡甸区人民医院的重症病房。
Grass-roots work under increasing pressure February 6, Wuhan Cai Den District People's Hospital's intensive care unit.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓武汉战“疫”的攻坚时刻本刊记者/刘远航 李明子 黄孝光发于2020.2.24总第936期《中国新闻周刊》雷暴与风雪相继到来，从2月14日的夜里，一直下到第二天晚上。
2007-3-1 15: 23 The Critical Moment of the Battle of the "Epidemic" by Chen Zhuo-Wuhan, the Changjiang Daily The thunderstorm and snow came from the night of Feb. 14 to the next night.
方舱里配备了电热毯，俗称“小太阳”的取暖器同时打开，暖和得给人一种恍若初夏的感觉。
The cabin was fitted with an electric blanket, commonly known as the "Little Sun" heater, which was warm enough to feel like early summer.
一直有传闻称，新冠病毒怕热，天气转暖的时候，这场灾难也会结束。
There have been rumours that the new crown virus is afraid of heat, and the disaster will end when the weather gets warmer.
但江汉方舱医院护士长王培红并未注意到这场风雪。
But the head nurse Wang Peihong of Jiang Han Fang Hospital did not notice the blizzard.
她在舱内待了一整天，傍晚出舱后，匆匆扒了两口饭，便回酒店整理当天的情况记录。
She stayed in the cabin all day. After leaving the cabin in the evening, she grabbed two mouthfuls of food and returned to the hotel to tidy up the day's records.
医务工作压力大，经常是12个小时不吃不喝，也不上厕所，已经有护士晕倒过。
Medical work is stressful, often 12 hours without food, water or toilets, and nurses have fainted.
舱里的患者数量维持在1500人左右，持续饱和，而新的方舱医院陆续开始接收患者。
The number of patients in the capsule remained constant at around 1,500, and the new cabin hospital began to receive patients.
雪同样落在重症监护室的窗户上，窗玻璃变白的时候，让人想起病变的肺叶。
The snow also fell on the ICU window, and when the windows turned white, it was reminiscent of the diseased lungs.
武汉的这场“战事”已经进入到攻坚阶段，一方面，要努力提高危重症病人的收治率，降低病死率；另一方面，是全面排查和有效隔离，控制病毒的进一步传播。
This "war" in Wuhan has entered a critical stage, on the one hand, to improve the admission rate of critically ill patients, reduce the mortality rate; on the other hand, is a comprehensive screening and effective isolation to control the further spread of the virus.
两者成为了眼下最艰巨的任务。
Both have become the most difficult tasks of the moment.
2月10日，在武汉客厅方舱医院，医护人员在安抚一名因精神压力过大而哭泣的患者。
On February 10, in Wuhan living room square cabin hospital, medical personnel in the comfort of a patient crying from stress.
图/新华重视重症2月12日下午，广州支援武汉协和医院西院区医疗队队长张挪富正在医生办公室查看病人的各项指标，突然听到对讲机里传来的声音。
Zhang Novu, head of the medical team of the western hospital of Wuhan Hsiao He Hospital, was examining the patient's indicators in the doctor's office when he heard a voice on the intercom.
“20号不行了，20号没心跳了。
"Number 20 is dead. No heartbeat on number 20.
”对讲机另一头，重症监护室里的值班医生对这名患者进行了40多分钟的心肺复苏抢救，还是没能抢回患者的生命。
Across the walkie-talkie, the doctor on duty in the intensive care unit saved the patient's life after more than 40 minutes of CPR.
就在当天上午，这名中年男性患者的各项指标还是正常的，病情也比较稳定，同事们觉得他好转的希望很大。
Just this morning, the middle-aged male patient's indicators were normal and stable, and his colleagues felt he had a good chance of getting better.
病人才四十多岁，就这么一下子没了。
The patient was in his forties and was gone.
类似的情况近期已经出现两例，张挪富很受打击，晚上睡觉前还在想这个问题。
There have been two similar cases recently, where Zhang Nofu was devastated and thought about it before going to bed at night.
“现在ICU里的这些病人和2003年‘非典’时很不一样，这种死亡出乎意料。
"These patients in the ICU today are very different from SARS in 2003, and the death was unexpected.
”张挪富对《中国新闻周刊》说，他的另一个身份是广州医科大学第一附属医院副院长。
Zhang told China News Weekly that his other identity was as vice-president of Guangzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital.
17年前，“非典”暴发的时候，广州是重灾区，他一直在死亡线上抢救重症病人，并一度感染上了非典病毒。
Seventeen years ago, when SARS broke out, Guangzhou was a major disaster area, saving critically ill patients on the line and contracting the SARS virus for a time.
张挪富并不是第一个注意到这种现象的人。
Zhang Nofu was not the first to notice the phenomenon.
在2月13日晚的新闻发布会上,中央指导组医疗救治组专家、北京朝阳医院副院长童朝晖就提出，新冠肺炎患者出现的是一种严重的急性呼吸窘迫综合征（ARDS），有着不同以往的特点。
At a press conference on the evening of February 13, Tong Chaohui, an expert in the medical treatment group of the Central Steering Group and Vice-President of Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, suggested that patients with Newcastle Pneumonia had developed a severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), a characteristic of the past.
同2003年的“非典”相比，新冠肺炎患者的病情进展得更快，缺氧发展得很明显，患者心脏受到的攻击也非常厉害。
Compared with SARS in 2003, patients with new crown pneumonia developed faster, hypoxia developed and heart attacks were severe.
从前期指标分析发现，这类患者心脏的肌钙蛋白（一种心肌损害标志物）增高比例非常高，因此救治难度比以前要大，也比平时救治ARDS患者要更困难。
Early-stage indicator analysis showed that cardiac troponin, a marker of myocardial damage, was highly elevated, making treatment more difficult than before and more difficult than usual to treat ARDS patients.
江苏省苏北人民医院重症医学科主任郑瑞强也曾遇到肌钙蛋白指标高出心梗病人十多倍的患者。
Zheng Ruiqiang, director of severe medicine at Subei People's Hospital in Jiangsu Province, also had a 10 times higher troponin index than patients with myocardial infarction.
除夕夜前，郑瑞强作为国家卫健委专家组成员进驻武汉，对口支援武汉市肺科医院，这是最早开始收治新冠病毒肺炎患者的医院之一。
Before New Year's Eve, Zheng Ruiqiang arrived in Wuhan as a member of the national health committee expert group to support Wuhan Municipal Pulmonary Hospital, one of the first hospitals to begin treating patients with Newcastle virus pneumonia.
“现在临床上确实可以看到有心脏、心循环系统受到损害的表现，但具体机制还不是很清楚。
"We do see signs of heart and circulatory damage, but the mechanism is not clear," he said.
”郑瑞强解释说，有可能是病毒攻击肺部之后，引起呼吸衰竭、低氧血症，因缺氧导致心肌损害，也有可能是病毒直接对心肌造成损害，但究竟是哪一种为主，还是两者兼有，现在还不清楚。
Zheng explained that the virus may attack the lungs, causing respiratory failure, hypoxemia, myocardial damage caused by hypoxia and possibly direct damage to the heart muscle, but it is not clear which is the dominant or both.
以郑瑞强接触过的危重症患者来看，他更偏向于“低氧导致心肌损害”的可能性，当患者的低氧问题纠正后，患者心脏功能似乎是能够有所恢复的。
In critically ill patients Zheng Ruiqiang contacted, he preferred "hypoxia leads to myocardial damage," when the patient's hypoxia corrected, the patient's heart function seems to be able to recover.
“治疗关口要提前，不能拖后，越到后期，抢救难度越大。
"Treatment should be advanced, can not be delayed, the later the more difficult the rescue.
”郑瑞强说。
"said Zheng.
武汉市肺科医院重症医学科主任胡明也认为，重症病人的治疗，还是越早越好。
Wu Ming, director of severe medicine at Wuhan Lung Hospital, agreed that the earlier the patient is treated, the better.
“心脏损伤主要就是因为送ICU太晚了，患者如果早一点进去，一般不会到这个地步。
"The main reason for heart damage is that it's too late to send the ICU, which is not usually the case if the patient goes in earlier.
”而肺科医院因收治重症患者比较早，处理及时，多数在“心衰”关口到来前就得到了救治。
The pulmonary hospitals treated patients with severe illnesses earlier, and most of them were treated before the "heart failure" period.
从元旦算起，胡明已经连续在医院工作了40多天。
Hu Ming has been working in hospital for more than 40 days since New Year's Day.
在他印象中，早在1月5日前后，住院部ICU的10张病床就已经收满了。
As early as around January 5, he had the impression that the inpatient ICU's 10 beds were full.
1月21日，中部战区总医院紧急抽组一支40人的医疗队，支援武汉市肺科医院。
On 21 January, the Central Theatre General Hospital dispatched a 40-member medical team to support the Wuhan Municipal Lung Hospital.
胡明管理的本院ICU病区原本只占13层的一半。
The ICU ward managed by Hu Ming originally accounted for only half of the 13 floors.
为收治更多的重症和危重症患者，中部战区总医院支援队到来后，将该楼层另一半临时改建成重症监护病房，又增加了10张床位。
In order to treat more critically ill and critically ill patients, the Central Theatre General Hospital Support Team arrived and temporarily converted the other half of the floor into an intensive care unit, with an additional 10 beds.
此外，中部战区总医院还腾空了住院部，将内科住院部全部转为收治新冠肺炎患者的病区，调整后床位增至500余张。
In addition, the Central Theatre General Hospital has vacated inpatient departments and transferred the entire inpatient department of internal medicine to wards for patients with pneumonia, increasing the number of beds to more than 500.
然而，很快又收满了。
Soon, however, it was full again.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇对收治的138名确诊患者病例样本进行了研究。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, studied a sample of 138 confirmed cases.
他发现，从患者首次出现症状到呼吸困难，平均需要5天，从发病到住院需要7天，而发展到急性呼吸窘迫综合征平均需要8天。
He found that it took an average of five days from the onset of symptoms to dyspnea, seven days from onset to hospitalization, and an average of eight days to develop acute respiratory distress syndrome.
彭志勇还提出，从发病算起，第二周是部分患者从重症发展到危重症的分水岭，抵抗力强的患者在这个阶段会出现好转。
Peng Zhiyong also suggested that from the onset of illness, the second week is a watershed for some patients from severe to critical, and that patients with high resistance will experience an improvement in this phase.
另外的一些患者，比如有基础病的老年人，则可能会出现呼吸窘迫、多脏器衰竭等情况，继而发展为危重症。
Others, such as older people with basic illnesses, may experience respiratory distress, multiple organ failure, and then develop a critical condition.
据统计，即使在医疗干预的情况下，仍有15％~20％新冠肺炎患者会发展成重症病人，重症病人中，则有25％~30％会发展成危重症。
According to statistics, even in the case of medical intervention, 15% to 20% of patients with new crown pneumonia will develop into severe cases, and 25% to 30% of patients with severe diseases will develop into serious diseases.
而在此次的肺炎疫情中，很多医院面临着重症床位和设备的紧缺，这增加了病情恶化患者的比例。
In the case of pneumonia, many hospitals are facing a severe shortage of beds and equipment, which has increased the proportion of patients with worsening conditions.
2月1日，张挪富率广东省医疗队到达武汉协和医院西院区支援时，该院已经收治了200多名重症患者。
On February 1, Zhang Nofu led Guangdong's medical team to the western courtyard of Wuhan Concord Hospital, which had admitted more than 200 seriously ill patients.
“就算保守估计，按10％的比例，当时已经有20人可能需要进ICU了，但实际无一人插管（因缺少ICU的床位与医护人员）。
"Even with a conservative estimate, there were already 20 people who might have needed ICU at the rate of 10 per cent, but nobody actually had it (lack of ICU beds and medical staff).
”张挪富说，“从治疗的角度看，时机非常重要，不能等。
"From a therapeutic point of view, timing is too important to wait," Zhang said.
”现在，协和医院16层住院部的810张床位已全部收满，保守估计，其中至少有80名危重症患者。
The 16-storey hospital now has a full complement of 810 beds, including at least 80 critically ill patients, according to conservative estimates.
但现实情况是，二楼的ICU只有20张床位。
But the reality is that the ICU on the second floor has only 20 beds.
重症治疗本身又决定了ICU的周转速度慢。
Severe treatment itself determines the slow turnaround time of the ICU.
“早期送得及时，差不多3周可以出院，送进来比较晚的患者，最少也得4周。
"Early deliveries can be made in time to get out of the hospital in about three weeks, and late arrivals can take at least four weeks.
”胡明对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"Hu told China News Weekly.
他管理的病区中，早期收治的患者已有3人治愈出院，还有2人已转到普通病房，死亡的有10人。
Three of the patients in his ward had been cured and discharged, two others had been transferred to the general ward and 10 had died.
条件紧张，“节流”没有可能，就只能“开源”。
Conditions are tense, "throttling" is not possible, can only "open source."
协和西院区在每层又增设了1~2张重症监护室床位，然而仍有二三十名危重症患者在排队。
Concorde West added 1 to 2 intensive care unit beds per floor, yet 20 or 30 critically ill patients were still queuing up.
空出来的每一张床位，都意味着前一位患者的好转，或者死亡。
Every bed made available means that the previous patient has improved or died.
这是一条生命线。
This is a lifeline.
有的危重病人终于等到了一张新床位，准备转到楼下2层插管，才被推到电梯口，人就没了。
Some critically ill people finally wait until a new bed, ready to transfer to the two floors below the intubation, was pushed to the elevator, people are gone.
“除了武汉市有限的几家医疗条件充足、收治病人较早的医院，其他大部分医院的重症监护室中的患者在接下来两周内的死亡率会比较高。
"With the exception of a limited number of hospitals in Wuhan, where patients were treated earlier, the death rate in intensive care units in most other hospitals will be higher in the next two weeks," he said.
” 一位定点收治医院ICU的主任医生对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"A doctor in charge of the ICU at a designated hospital told China News Weekly.
在武汉市肺科医院，约有40％的重症患者病情好转，甚至出院，但后期收治的患者由于延误了最佳治疗时机，近两周内死亡率较之前有所提高。
At Wuhan Lung Hospital, about 40 percent of the critically ill patients were cured or even discharged, but the death rate in the last two weeks has increased because of delays in the optimal timing of treatment.
“目前为止，有2例在住进ICU两周内死亡，四周内死亡的有10人左右，占了近一半。
"So far, two cases have died within two weeks of living in the ICU, and about 10 people, or nearly half, have died within four weeks.
”胡明说。
'he said.
2月15日，运送成都市成华区捐赠武汉消毒液的卡车行驶在武汉市区。
On Feb. 15, trucks carrying Wuhan Disinfectant donated to Chenghua district of Chengdu were travelling in Wuhan city.
图/新华抢救的难度“降低死亡率，需要综合各方面因素，包括收治医院的水平、医疗设备配置、专业医护人员和后勤资源调配等等因素。
Difficulty in rescuing Xinhua "Reducing the mortality rate requires a combination of factors, including the level of hospital admissions, the configuration of medical equipment, the deployment of medical professionals and logistical resources, and so on.
”张挪富指出。
"pointed out Zhang.
2月1日，张挪富到达武汉，带着他的团队，花了两天时间对住院楼进行改造。
On February 1, Zhang arrived in Wuhan and spent two days with his team to renovate the inpatient building.
标准的隔离病房需要划分出清洁区、污染区和半清洁区（也叫缓冲区），病人和患者进出使用不同的通道，俗称“三区、双通道”，但协和西院并非传染病专科医院，此前没有这样的住院设计，需要重新规划。
Standard isolation rooms need to be divided into clean, polluted and semi-clean areas (also known as buffer zones), with patients and patients entering and leaving different passages, commonly known as "Three Areas, Two Channels," but the Concorde West Hospital is not a specialist hospital for infectious diseases.
原本的医生办公室和重症监护病房在楼层的同一侧，只隔着一条走廊。
The original doctor's office and intensive care unit were on the same side of the floor, just across a corridor.
由于病房内并未设计成“负压”，临近的办公室也成了“污染区”的一部分，无法使用。
Since the wards were not designed to be "negative pressure," adjacent offices became part of the "contaminated area" and could not be used.
张挪富找来了装修公司，在同层的另一侧“清洁区”开辟出新的医生办公室，在办公室和ICU病房之间临时搭出3个连续的“包厢”，作为“缓冲区”。
Mr. Zhang hired a decoration company to open a new doctor's office on the other side of the floor in the "cleanup area" and set up three temporary "booths" between the office and the ICU ward as a "buffer zone."
目前，在协和医院支援的1000多名医护人员尚未出现被感染的情况。
So far, more than 1,000 health-care workers supported at Concorde Hospital have not been infected.
其他医院的医护人员感染情况则非常严重。
Infection among medical staff in other hospitals is very serious.
截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，占全国确诊病例的3.8％，其中有6人死亡。
As at 2400 hours on 11 February, a total of 1,716 cases, or 3.8 per cent of confirmed cases nationwide, had been reported by medical personnel, including 6 deaths.
武汉市医务人员确诊1102例，占湖北省医务人员确诊病例的73.4％。
Medical staff diagnosed 1102 cases in Wuhan, accounting for 73.4% of the confirmed cases in Hubei province.
支援武汉市汉口医院的广东医疗队也面临着类似的问题，他们将原来的医生办公室改造成缓冲区，用的是木板隔断，缝隙处就用透明胶布封住。
The Guangdong medical team, which supports Wuhan Hankou Hospital, faces a similar problem, transforming its doctors' office into a buffer zone with wooden partitions sealed with transparent tape.
医院的插管患者多，增加病床后，原有的氧压无法维持，氧气不足，医疗队就用小推车往病房运送氧气罐，同时向社会求助，最后有企业拿来了家庭式吸氧机作为补充。
The number of patients with intubation in hospitals, the increase in beds, the original oxygen pressure can not maintain, oxygen shortage, the medical team to transport oxygen tanks to the ward, and at the same time to seek social help, the enterprise finally brought home-style oxygen absorbers as a supplement.
被称为抢救病人“最后一招”的ECMO（体外膜肺氧合技术）并不是每家医院都具备的。
ECMO, known as the "last resort," is not available in every hospital.
首批定点医院之一的武汉市红十字会医院是二级医院，没有ECMO，对口支援的四川医疗队副队长、四川省人民医院重症医学科主任黄晓波就用高流量氧气和无创机械插管两种方法进行抢救。
The Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, one of the first designated hospitals, is a level II hospital. Without ECMO, Huang Xiaobo, vice-captain of Sichuan Medical Team and director of severe medicine of Sichuan People's Hospital, rescues it with high-flow oxygen and non-invasive mechanical intubation.
武汉市肺科医院有6台ECMO。
Wuhan City Lung Hospital has 6 ECMO.
截至目前，胡明所在的重症监护病区已经有9名患者使用了ECMO技术，目前一例患者在撤机后病情平稳，3例正在运转，至少需要运转2周，有5例患者死亡。
So far, nine patients in Hu Ming's intensive care unit have used ECMO technology. One patient is now in a stable condition after withdrawal, three cases are running for at least two weeks and five patients have died.
“人工肺进行工作，让肺暂时休息，然后去纠正引起肺部病变的原因，让肺的功能慢慢修复。
"The artificial lungs work, allowing the lungs to rest for a while, then correct the causes of the lung lesions and allow the lungs to function slowly.
它的成功率在50％~70％，也不能夸大ECMO的作用。
Its success rate is between 50% and 70%, and the role of ECMO cannot be overstated.
”郑瑞强解释说，这项技术对医院条件和医生技术水平都有很高的要求，正常情况下并不建议所有医院都使用。
ZhengRuiqiang explained that the technology has high requirements for hospital conditions and doctors' skill levels and is not normally recommended for all hospitals.
对于这次新冠病毒感染的患者，当出现急性呼吸衰竭、但肺功能依然可逆的情况下，才会推荐使用ECMO技术。
ECMO is recommended for patients with this new crown virus infection when acute respiratory failure occurs but lung function is still reversible.
除了医疗设备配置不足，各个定点医院的重症监护室还面临着专业医护人员紧缺的难题。
In addition to inadequate medical equipment, intensive care units in designated hospitals face a shortage of specialized medical personnel.
一位ICU负责人对《中国新闻周刊》说，各省医疗队临时征调的医生来自内科、外科和皮肤科等，很多人连呼吸机都没使用过，刚来时只能做一些简单的记录和辅助工作，对于最关键的临床决策，却无能为力。
An ICU official told China News Weekly that doctors recruited on an ad hoc basis by provincial medical teams came from medicine, surgery and dermatology, many of whom had never used a ventilator and had to start with simple records and support work, but could do little about the most critical clinical decisions.
协和西院ICU病区的医护人员配置相对比较充足。
Concorde Western Hospital ICU disease area of the relatively adequate staffing.
算上后来增补的医护人员，广东援鄂医疗队目前共有57人，再加上从武汉协和医院本部征调的15名医护人员，凑足了20名医生、60余名护士的基本编制，基本满足医生与患者1:1、护士与患者3:1的配比。
With the addition of medical staff, Guangdong's medical team of Hubei now totals 57, and the 15 medical personnel recruited from the headquarters of Wuhan Concorde and Hospital have made up a basic complement of 20 doctors and more than 60 nurses, basically meeting the ratio of 1 doctor to 1 patient and 3: 1 nurse to patient.
为解决实时关注患者生命体征变化的需要，张挪富团队里的医生还在病房区域放了几部手机，借助微信视频，跟办公室里的值班医生随时保持联系。
To address the need for real-time attention to changes in patients' vital signs, Zhang's doctors placed several cell phones in the ward area and kept in touch with the office's doctor on duty through microphone videos.
一旦出现状况，就可以内外配合进行抢救，“不能等外面的人现穿防护服进去，穿个衣服都要40来分钟，早来不及了。
Once the situation, you can cooperate with internal and external rescue, "can not wait for the outside people now wear protective clothing, wear a dress to take about 40 minutes, too late.
”张挪富说。
'he said.
“多种原因导致了救治率的差别， ICU的各种支持手段和措施，主要目的是让患者扛过病毒早期的打击，为他的生存和后续治疗抢救创造时间。
"The difference in treatment rates is due to a variety of factors, and the main purpose of the ICU's support tools and measures is to enable the patient to carry the virus through the early stages of the attack, creating time for his survival and subsequent treatment.
但是有一部分病人，一直没有稳定或好转，肺功能损伤会越来越重，这部分病人最后可能仍然是无解的。
But in some patients, there has been no stability or improvement, lung function damage will become more and more serious, this part of the patient may still be unsolvable.
”武汉市某定点医院ICU的一位主任医生对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"A doctor in charge of the ICU at a designated hospital in Wuhan told China News Weekly.
2月17日，武汉红十字会医院重症隔离病区，一名劳累的护士在病房外靠着墙闭眼小憩。
A tired nurse rests with her eyes closed against a wall outside the hospital room in the critically ill section of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital on Feb. 17.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓艰难的“清零”如果说危重病人的救治主要依赖医院的医疗技术和组织调动能力，那么封城和隔离考验的，则是基层管理水平。
Photography / Changjiang Daily Chen Zhuo's Difficult "Clean Up" If the treatment of critically ill patients mainly depends on the hospital's medical technology and organizational mobilization ability, then the closure and isolation of the test is the level of grass-roots management.
梁春燕回想起医院里看到的一幕，仍觉得心有余悸。
Liang Chunyan recalled the scene seen in the hospital, still feel palpitations.
她是华中农业大学的一位离退休人员，住在洪山区狮子山街道。
She is a retired person from Central China Agricultural University who lives on Lion Rock Street in Hongshan District.
2月初，她去做核酸检测，隔壁病房一个五十多岁的男性突然病情加剧，来不及进入重症监护室，就去世了，也没有确诊。
At the beginning of February, she went for a nucleic acid test, and a man in his fifties in the next ward died, undiagnosed, before he could reach intensive care.
这只是许许多多未被收入死亡数据中的一位。
This is only one of many unaccounted for deaths.
在医院里，梁春燕注意到，来做核酸检测的人挤满了整个过道。
At the hospital, Liang noticed that people coming to do nucleic acid tests were packed the entire hallway.
那时候，距离封城已经过去一个多星期，由于准备工作不充分，医疗器械不足，防护物资缺乏，再加上群众的恐慌心理，医院近乎瘫痪。
At that time, more than a week after the closure, the hospital was paralysed by inadequate preparations, inadequate medical equipment, lack of protective materials and panic among the population.
“单纯封城是远远不够的，应该在封城前要做好充分的准备，封城后跟进相应预防措施。
"It is not enough simply to seal the city, should be well prepared before sealing the city, after the corresponding preventive measures follow-up.
”美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风向《中国新闻周刊》分析说。
Zhang style, vice-dean and senior lifelong professor of epidemiology at UCLA School of Public Health, told China Newsweek.
在封城措施启动的同一时间，武汉市政府开始火速建造火神山与雷神山医院。
At the same time as the closure measures began, Wuhan city government began to build fire god mountain and thunder Shenshan hospital.
张作风认为，彼时武汉的主要精力放在建医院上，“没有真正抓住关键”。
Zhang style thinks, at that time Wuhan's main energy to build hospitals, "did not really grasp the key."
他在2月初接受媒体采访时就提醒道：“湖北是当前抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的重中之重，对确诊和疑似病人进行有效隔离是急中之急。
"Hubei is the top priority in the fight against the new coronavirus infection," he warned in an interview with the media in early February.
”2月1日，武汉终于在隔离措施上迈出实质一步。
On February 1, Wuhan finally took a substantial step forward in its quarantine measures.
当天武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发出紧急通知，要求各区指挥部，在2日12点前，完成对新冠肺炎确诊、疑似、发热及密切接触者“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作。
Wuhan Hsinchuang Pneumonia Control Command issued an emergency notice on the same day, the District Command, by 12: 00 pm, to complete the diagnosis, suspected, fever and close contacts of the "four categories of people" of the work.
然而，在长达一周的时间内，由于没有足够的医疗资源，社区只能对发热病人进行排查，却无法收治。
However, for up to a week, the community was unable to treat febrile patients because of the lack of adequate medical resources.
很多患者四处奔走寻医，成为移动的传染源。
Many patients travel around looking for health care, becoming a source of infection for the movement.
中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰院士是方舱医院建议的提出者，他向《中国新闻周刊》评价称，方舱医院解决了当前武汉疫情中最主要的问题。
Wang Chen, vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine, the author of the proposal, told China News Weekly that the hospital had solved the main problem of the current epidemic in Wuhan.
“由于各医院已无床位可收，大量病人，特别是发病早期传染力强、可以流动、社会交往相对较多的轻症病人未能实现集中收治隔离，留在家庭、社区和社会中，这些患者成为最主要的传染源，是造成疫情扩大的最主要因素，也是亟待接受医疗照护的人员。
"With no beds available in hospitals, a large number of patients, especially those with mild illnesses who are highly contagious, mobile and have a relatively high level of social interaction, have not been able to achieve centralized isolation and remain in their families, communities and societies. These patients are the main source of infection, the most important factor contributing to the spread of the epidemic and those in urgent need of medical care.
”王辰说。
"said Wang Chen.
自1月23日封城后，武汉市的疫情防控经历了三个阶段：从摸排分类、集中隔离，到如今的“应收尽收”、确诊“清零”行动。
Since the closure of the city on January 23, the city of Wuhan has gone through three stages of epidemic prevention and control: from the classification of the mapping, centralized isolation, to today's "receivable," the diagnosis of "zero" action.
为疏导此前防控不力导致的病患“堰塞湖”，社区工作人员的任务不断加码。
The task of community workers has been stepped up in an effort to channel "quake lakes" from patients who previously suffered from inadequate prevention and control.
2月7日，武汉市东湖高新区一小区，医护人员将发热一周的87岁老人转运到医院。
On Feb. 7, 87-year-olds with fever for a week were transferred to a hospital in a district of Donghu High-tech District in Wuhan.
摄影/湖北日报 田悦2月9日这天，各个街道都接到了死命令，要求收治所有的病人。
Photo / Hubei daily Tian Yue February 9, each street received death orders to treat all patients.
王军是唐家墩街道的一名转运司机，他接手过一个62岁的患者，因血氧量一直不达标，前后送了四次，才被方舱医院接收。
Wang Jun, a transporter on the streets of Tangjiatun, took over a 62-year-old patient who was admitted to the Fangzhou hospital four times before receiving him because of substandard blood oxygen.
起初，每次执行完一次任务，王军都会用专业的设备对转运车进行全方位消毒，但任务加重之后，连穿脱防护服的时间都不够，更不用说消毒了，只能自己带着酒精，对座位进行简单的处理，这给司机和患者都增加了感染风险。
Initially, after each mission, the Rangers disinfected the transporter in all directions with specialized equipment, but as the task grew, they did not even have enough time to wear protective clothing, let alone disinfect them, and had to carry their own alcohol and simply dispose of their seats, increasing the risk of infection for both drivers and patients.
“现在每天要求我们把疑似名单全部归零，任务全部压在基层，好多心理素质不够的人都快崩溃了。
"Now every day we are required to put all the suspected list to zero, all the task at the grass-roots level, a lot of people with insufficient psychological quality are close to collapse.
社区也不知道怎么弄，都是通过个人关系自己跟我们区的定点医院联系。
The community also does not know how to do, is through the personal relationship with our district to contact the designated hospital.
有个别的地方已经被逼疯了，反正把人送到方舱就不管了，就上报说已经送去了，至于进没进到方舱里就不管了。
There were a few places which had been driven mad, and it was reported that they had been sent, regardless of their entrance into the cabin.
”王军对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"Wang Jun told China News Weekly.
收治确诊患者任务艰巨，排查工作同样困难重重。
The task of receiving and treating confirmed patients is difficult, as is screening.
大部分社区采用了线上为主的方式，但很多老年居民信息封闭，深居简出，处于无人管理的隐形状态。
Most communities have adopted an online-based approach, but many older residents are isolated, isolated and invisible.
由于硚口区一些社区在排查中存在漏报，没有能够组织有效的救治，导致长丰街道正康社区一位姓程的疑似患者在家自缢身亡。
A suspected patient surnamed Cheng in Zhengkang community of Changfeng street was hanged at home due to underreporting and failure to organize effective treatment in some communities of Zhoukou District.
据官方通报，当地多名干部受到处分。
According to official reports, several local cadres were disciplined.
“你只能通过普通人的遭遇，来判断政策的执行力度，究竟有没有真正从心脏到达每一个毛细血管。
"You can only tell by what happens to ordinary people whether the policies are being carried out in a way that really reaches every capillary from the heart.
如果每一个细胞都OK，才会感觉整个机体的生命力活泼起来。
If every cell is OK, it will feel the vitality of the whole body lively.
这一次，基层社区的确很辛苦，但是它只有目标和任务，缺少相应的保证落实的办法与措施。
This time, grass-roots communities are indeed struggling, but they have only goals and tasks and lack the means and measures to ensure their implementation.
”一位不愿具名的湖北省委机关干部对《中国新闻周刊》说。
A cadre of Hubei Provincial Communist Party officials, who declined to be named, told China News Weekly.
从2月12日开始，湖北的临床诊断病例数被纳入到确诊病例中来。
From Feb. 12, the number of clinical cases diagnosed in Hubei province was included in the list of confirmed cases.
诊断标准的变化让该省确诊病例的数量激增，一天之内，武汉的新增病例就达到13436例。
Changes in diagnostic criteria have led to a surge in the number of confirmed cases in the province, with 13,436 new cases reported in Wuhan within a day.
这也使得床位的真实缺口浮出水面。
This has also led to the emergence of real gaps in beds.
“本来全国已经有希望看到拐点了，但因为武汉病例突然增加，就影响了全国的拐点。
"There was already hope of a national inflection point, but the sudden increase in cases in Wuhan has affected the inflection point across the country.
但这也是个好消息，说明武汉已经开始把以前存留的病例公开出来了，我们可以把疫情看得更加清楚。
But it is also good news that Wuhan has begun to open up previously remaining cases, and we can see the epidemic more clearly.
”张作风对《中国新闻周刊》表示。
Zhang style told China News Weekly.
同样是在12日，中央指导组副组长、中央政法委秘书长陈一新在武汉疫情防控指挥部会议上表示，疫情防控正处于胶着对垒状态，武汉的感染者底数还没有完全摸清，潜在被感染的基数可能还比较大。
Also on the 12th, Chen Xin, vice-chairman of the Central Steering Group and secretary-general of the Central Political and Law Commission, told a meeting of Wuhan Prevention and Control Command that the epidemic was in a stalemate.
就在12日，硚口区汉正街的居民张汉英经历了动荡的一天。
Just on the 12th, Zhang Han-ying, a resident of Hancheng Street in Zhangkou district, experienced a tumultuous day.
中午时分，她的母亲病情突然加重，此前，母亲一直和哥哥张汉铁在家自行隔离。
At noon, her mother suddenly became seriously ill, after her mother and her brother Zhang Han-tiao had been isolated at home.
张汉英将母亲带到位于江汉区的武汉亚洲心脏病医院，母亲曾在这里做过心脏手术，有病历留存，但院方表示无法跨区收治。
Zhang took her mother to Wuhan Asian Heart Hospital in Jianghan, where she had heart surgery and had medical records, but the hospital said it was not possible to treat them across districts.
张汉英只好准备转院，但没有车，社区的人说应该打120，但120表示要先跟社区联系，现在都是统一安排。
Zhang was ready to transfer, but there was no car. The community said they should call 120, but 120 said they wanted to contact the community first.
僵持之下，张汉英不知道该怎么办，就在这时，母亲病情进一步恶化，亚心医院终于同意抢救。
Under the standoff, Zhang Han-ying did not know how to do, just then, the mother's condition further deteriorated, Axin Hospital finally agreed to rescue.
到了晚上11点，母亲还是走了，检查结果显示，肺已经全白。
At 11 p. m., my mother left and the results showed that her lungs were all white.
张汉英自己也开始出现发热症状。
Zhang himself began to develop febrile symptoms.
检查结果显示，张汉英与90岁的父亲都是阳性，哥哥是阴性，需要继续观察。
The results showed that Zhang and his 90-year-old father were both positive and the older brother was negative and needed further observation.
13日晚上，一家三人进入社区隔离点。
On the night of 13, the family entered the community isolation point.
按规定，隔离是一人一间，但因父亲生活无法自理，隔离点又没有看护人员，张汉铁还是跟父亲住在一起。
According to the regulations, isolation is one person, but because the father is unable to care for himself, isolation points and no caretaker, Zhang Han-Tie is still living with his father.
2月14日晚上，张汉英进入汉阳区武汉体育中心改造的沌口方舱医院，这家方舱医院刚刚建成，开始收治病人，拥有560张床位，由第五批江苏援湖北医疗队省队和国家紧急医学救援队接管。
On the evening of February 14, Zhang Han-ying entered the Shileikou Square Hospital of Wuhan Sports Center in Hanyang District, which had just been built and had 560 beds. It was taken over by the 5th Jiangsu Provincial Team of Aid Hubei Medical Team and the National Emergency Medical Rescue Team.
截至2月15日，武汉已经开放了9个方舱医院，有6960多张床位，在院的患者达到了5606名。
By February 15, Wuhan had opened nine cabin hospitals with more than 6,960 beds, with 5,606 patients in the hospital.
张作风对床位缺口做了一番估算：“眼下武汉的病人数是3.8万人。
Zhang estimated the gap: "The current number of cases in Wuhan is 38,000.
假设重症率25％，就有近1万左右的重症病人。
Assuming a 25 per cent critical illness rate, there are approximately 10,000 critically ill patients.
按照武汉市目前定点医院和火神山、雷神山医院约1.2万的床位数量，收治重症病人应该是够了。
According to Wuhan City, the number of designated hospitals and the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan Hospital about 12,000 beds, should be enough to treat serious patients.
而轻症病人在2.8万人左右，减掉已经治愈的5000余人和死亡的1500余人，估计轻症病人约2万人出头。
The number of light cases is around 28,000, less the 5,000 people who have been cured and more than 1,500 people who have died, and the estimated number of light cases is just over 20,000.
方舱医院目前仅有不到7000张床位，可能远远达不到把所有病人隔离起来的要求。
The hospital currently has fewer than 7,000 beds, which may fall far short of the requirement to isolate all patients.
”对此，一位不愿具名的武汉官员告诉《中国新闻周刊》，下一步要加快方舱医院的周转，让轻症患者康复后尽快出院。
Wuhan official, who declined to be named, told China News Weekly that the next step was to speed up turnover at the cabin hospital and get light patients out of the hospital as soon as they recover.
但实际上，已经有部分患者陆续恢复，从方舱出院，再居家隔离14天，他们的生活就将回到正轨。
But in practice, some patients have been recovering, discharged from the capsule and kept in quarantine for 14 days, and their lives will be back on track.
2月17日，空军出动运-20等运输机，从上海虹桥等七个机场起飞，向武汉紧急空运军队支援湖北医疗队队员和物资。
On February 17, the Air Force flew transport planes, including the 20-20, to take off from seven airports in Shanghai, including Hongqiao, and sent troops by air to Wuhan to support members and supplies of the Hubei medical team.
这是空军第4次向武汉大规模空运医疗队队员和物资，8架运输机共运载676名医护人员和50吨医疗物资。
It was the fourth major airlift by the Air Force to Wuhan, carrying 676 medical personnel and 50 tons of medical supplies.
摄影/湖北日报 魏铼方舱里的世界住进方舱十多天后，很多患者慢慢感到了一些变化。
More than ten days after the world in Hubei daily Wei Rhenium Cabin was taken in, many patients began to feel some changes.
刚进方舱时，方舱送饭不及时，分量也不够吃。
No sooner had he entered the cabin than the square-cabin delivered food in time and in sufficient quantity.
而今聊起，有人表示“方舱的伙食真不错！”来自贵州救援队的护士杨倩倩告诉《中国新闻周刊》，她第一天进舱时杂乱无章，“不知道自己要做什么”。
"The food in the cabin is really good," Yang Qian, a nurse from Guizhou rescue team, told China News Weekly as she entered the cabin on her first day without knowing what to do.
午饭到后，他们先给女患者派送，遭遇个别男患者抢饭。
After lunch, they first sent to the female patients, encountered individual male patients snatch food.
当天下班后，她和同事在公交车上开小会，决定此后将饭领齐之后再同步分发。
After work that day, she and her colleagues held a small meeting on the bus and decided to bring their meals together and distribute them simultaneously thereafter.
王培红代表武汉协和医院对江汉方舱医院的一应事务进行统筹协调。
Wang Peihong represents Wuhan Concorde Hospital to coordinate the affairs of Jianghan Fangkang Hospital.
对她来说，在方舱工作是“把一个临时应急的场所慢慢打造成完整医院的感觉”。
For her, working in the cabin was "a sense of turning a makeshift emergency place into a full hospital."
头三天，她每天在舱内待12个小时以上，过程中不吃不喝，挑战着生理极限。
For the first three days, she spent more than 12 hours a day in the cabin, eating and drinking, challenging her physical limits.
“到第四天，我刚进去两小时就不行了，全身冒冷汗，快要倒了。
On the fourth day I had scarcely entered two hours when I collapsed in a cold perspiration.
我立马扶着墙出去，休息半个小时才缓过气来。
I immediately helped myself to the wall and rested for half an hour before I regained my breath.
”此后随着王培红的进舱时间缩短到10小时以内，江汉方舱医院的分组和排班也逐渐固定下来。
Since then, as Wang's cabin time has been shortened to less than 10 hours, the grouping and scheduling of the Jianghan Fang Hospital have gradually become fixed.
“我们分了患者护理组、综合协调组、医疗保障组、分诊应急组等。
"We have a patient care team, a comprehensive coordination group, a medical security team, a sub-medical emergency team and so on.
其中，患者护理组中，山西、海南、内蒙古、贵州的救援队承揽了方舱一楼的病区，山西；云南救援队负责二楼的病区。
In the patient care group, rescue teams from Shanxi, Hainan, Inner Mongolia and Guizhou contracted for the first floor of the cabin, Shanxi, and the Yunnan rescue team was responsible for the second floor area.
广东、广西、河南、新疆兵团的救援队则分在综合协调组。
The rescue teams in Guangdong, Guangxi, Henan and Xinjiang are divided into comprehensive coordination groups.
他们的排班都是6小时一班。
They work six-hour shifts.
”不久前江汉方舱医院转院一个患者。
Not long ago, Jiang Han Square Hospital was transferred to a patient.
把患者送到2号门后，救护车迟迟未至，患者病情突然恶化。
After taking the patient to Gate 2, the ambulance arrived late and the patient's condition suddenly deteriorated.
医护人员紧急叫来急救车，并在旁边的分诊台对病人展开抢救。
The paramedics rushed for the ambulance and began to rescue the patient at a nearby clinic.
此事过后，王培红将靠近出口的一个病区腾空并配备急救设备，用来安置临时转院的重症患者。
After this incident, Wang Peihong will be near the exit of a sick area empty and equipped with first-aid equipment for the temporary transfer of patients in serious condition.
此外，江汉方舱医院还实现了病人信息电子化录入、身体检查免排队、药物配送自动化等，并为患者开辟了扫二维码反馈问题渠道。
Besides, Jianghan Fangkang Hospital realized the electronic entry of patient information, body check-free queuing, drug distribution automation, and opened up two-dimensional feedback channels for patients.
随着新的方舱不断建成以及方舱流程的完善，收治率有望进一步提升。
With the construction of the new cabin and the improvement of the cabin process, the admission rate is expected to further improve.
王辰认为，在“应收尽收，应治尽治”之外，还应强调“应早尽早”：“近期收治的病人，基本上是前期积压的存量，百分之八九十都是之前未能收入医院、居家一周以上的患者，此间极易传染他人，不利于切断传染源。
Wang Chen believes that "should be treated as soon as possible" in addition to "should be treated as early as possible": "The recent treatment of patients, basically the backlog of the previous period, eighty-nine percent of the patients have not been in hospital, more than a week, this is highly contagious, not conducive to cutting off the source of infection.
在大批存量患者问题初获解决后，‘应早尽早’收治患者成为突出的、关键的工作要点。
After a large number of patients in the initial solution to the stock of patients, 'should be treated as early as possible' patients become prominent, key work points.
”接受采访的时候，硚口区长丰街道某社区书记周念平感到如释重负。
During the interview, ZhouLianping, a community secretary in Changkou district of Zhangkou District, felt relieved.
前一天晚上，终于把两个危重病人送到了定点医院，一个患者已经等了一个星期，另一个则等了三四天。
The night before, two critically ill patients had been taken to the designated hospital, one for a week and the other for three or four days.
近日，周念平感受到了工作节奏的一些变化。
Recently, Zhou Nianping felt some changes in the rhythm of his work.
表格形式不再五花八门，除了病患的基本信息，主要内容就是三点，包括病情症状、严重情况和本人的去向，收表的部门也统一到了一个部门，不再需要反复折腾。
The forms are no longer varied. Apart from the basic information about the patient, the main contents are three points, including the symptoms, the serious situation and the whereabouts of the patient.
之前都是区里统一安排隔离点，最近几天发生了变化，由街道办负责征用酒店，扩充床位。
In recent days, changes have taken place in the area, where street offices have been responsible for requisitioning hotels and expanding beds.
据周念平观察，酒店方面的态度是不一样的。
According to Zhou Nianping observation, the attitude of the hotel is not the same.
短期来看，很多酒店是乐意的，因为空着也是空着，不如被征用，这样可以有收入，缓解压力。
In the short run, many hotels are happy to be expropriated because the empty space is empty, so there is income to be gained and pressure to be eased.
但酒店老板也有一些担心，怕疫情过后，大家可能不愿意住到传染病人住过的酒店。
But hotel owners also have some concerns that, after the outbreak, people may be reluctant to stay in hotels where infectious diseases live.
当然，新的问题仍然存在。
Of course, new problems remain.
按照社区管控的统一规定，每户家庭每3天可指派1人外出采购。
According to the uniform rules of community control, one person per household can be assigned to go shopping every three days.
就在14日那天，在周念平的隔壁社区，有出行需求的居民跟负责值守的人员打了起来。
On the 14th, in the neighborhood next door to Zhou Nianping, residents who needed to travel battled with the people in charge.
在周念平看来，封闭小区的确能给疫情的防控带来一些好处，但是政策的细则还需要更加细化。
In Zhou Nianping's view, the closed areas can bring some benefits to the prevention and control of the epidemic, but the details of the policy need to be more detailed.
如今，武汉保卫战已经进入攻坚阶段。
Today, the defense of Wuhan has entered a critical stage.
张作风补充强调说，“如果有可能，在严密防护下，最好把已经染病的1000多名武汉医护人员，转移到有充分治疗和隔离条件的地方，对他们进行有效的治疗。
Zhang added: "If possible, under strict protection, it would be better to transfer the more than 1,000 Wuhan medical personnel already infected with the disease to places with adequate treatment and isolation conditions, and to provide them with effective treatment.
因为这批医护人员，将会是疫情后期各地医疗队撤走后，当地医院恢复元气的主力军。
Because this group of medical personnel, will be after the evacuation of medical teams in the latter part of the local hospital recovery force.
”（文中王军、周念平为化名）值班编辑：罗晓兰封面报道之三《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
"(Text Wang Jun, Zhou Nian Ping for alias) Duty Editor: Xiaolan Luo cover story 3," Wuhan Jianjian - how we race against the epidemic "(composed of five stories) Click on the figure below, and press one button to place an order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​武汉战“疫”的攻坚时刻。
The Critical Moment of the "Epidemic" in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "​武汉战“疫”的攻坚时刻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; against the plague of Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "基层工作的压力不断加大";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the grass-roots level.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
