疫情下的中国公共卫生体系。
China's Public Health System under the Epidemic.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
The following article comes from 钛禾产业观察。
Industrial observation of the following article comes from titanium grain.
Author 刘爱国。
Author Liu patriotic.
钛禾产业观察。
Ti-Wo Industry Observation.
国家战略性核心科技产业创新型智库+媒体平台，关注中国前沿科技和高端制造。
National strategic core science and technology industry innovative think tank + media platform, focus on China's cutting-edge technology and high-end manufacturing.
只发布独家原创文章。
Only original articles are published.
为大时代的创新者、创业家和投资人提供第一手资讯，以及深度行业报告。
To provide first-hand information to innovators, entrepreneurs, and investors in the larger world, as well as in-depth industry reports.
。
.
只有当危机来临时，人们才会想起它的重要性刘爱国| 文中国的公共卫生体系改革，历来是诸多系统性改革中，最复杂、最纠结的领域之一。
Only when a crisis strikes will people remember its importance. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; China
作为公共卫生的重要一环，2002年以前的中国疾控一直是沿袭苏联的防疫站模式，这一带有高度计划色彩的防疫系统，在以经济建设为中心的时代背景下，随着投入严重不足而逐渐乏力。
As an important link in public health, disease control in China until 2002 followed the Soviet model of epidemic prevention stations, which had a highly planned epidemic prevention system and were gradually weakened under the background of an era centred on economic construction.
17年前的SARS危机，将正在酝酿变化的中国疾控系统直接推上了改革火线，带来了中国公共卫生防疫体系的彻底重塑，走上类似西方发达国家的疾控中心（CDC）建设道路。
The SARS crisis 17 years ago put China's disease-control system on the firing line, revolutionized China's public health and epidemic prevention system, and set out on a path similar to that of the Western developed world's CDC.
2016年10月25日印发的《健康中国2030规划纲要》，是建国以来首次把健康作为国家战略提出的中长期战略规划，《纲要》提出了以预防为主、防治结合、关口前移、促进资源下沉的指导性意见，为后续的公共卫生整体建设提供了设计思路。
The Healthy China 2030 Programme, issued on 25 October 2016, is the first medium- and long-term strategic plan to include health as a national strategy since the founding of the country. The Outline sets out guiding principles for prevention-based prevention, prevention-and-treatment integration, forward-shifting of gateways and the facilitation of the sinking of resources.
从时间表上来看，这次新型冠状病毒肺炎的爆发，既是对后非典时代中国医改的一次集中测验，更是对新一阶段中国公共卫生体系改革的一场摸底考试。
In terms of timetable, the outbreak of this new coronavirus pneumonia is not only a concentrated test of China's health care reform in the post-SARS era, but also a thorough examination of the next stage of China's public health reform.
非典至今17年，中国的公共卫生体系改革恰恰和医疗改革交叠并行，其中的盘根错节，牵一发而动全身的诸多问题，随着这次武汉疫情的爆发，被再一次推到了公众的视野中。
Seventeen years after SARS struck, China's public-health-system reform coincided with that of health-care reform, with its intertwined and systemic problems that were pushed back into the public eye with the outbreak of the Wuhan epidemic.
任何一个体系的高效率运转，都离不开两大要素：钱和人。
The efficient operation of any system is inseparable from two main elements: money and people.
SARS危机前的“战疫”逻辑医疗与卫生，从人类医学诞生以来，就是两个共生却未必共荣的词语。
Before the SARS crisis, "epidemic" logic medicine and hygiene, from the birth of human medicine, is two symbiotic but not necessarily prosperous words.
几千年来，除了战争外，传染病几乎成为人类面对的最可怕杀手。
For thousands of years, in addition to war, infectious diseases have become almost the most terrible killers facing humanity.
在个体治疗并不发达时，通过卫生措施预防疾病，几乎是人类有效应对传染病的唯一法宝。
When individual treatment is underdeveloped, the prevention of diseases through sanitary measures is almost the only effective human response to infectious diseases.
公共卫生作为一个天生自带利他属性的公共事业，历来都是由国家无条件投入。
Public health as a natural public utility with altruistic attributes has always been unconditionally invested by the State.
但是这类开支如同军费一样，只有当战争爆发时，才会直观体现投入价值，继而刺激军费比例大幅度增加。
But such spending, like military spending, reflects the value of inputs intuitively only when wars break out, and thus stimulates a large increase in the share of military spending.
现代公共卫生的出现与欧洲的工业革命密不可分。
The emergence of modern public health is inextricably linked to the industrial revolution in Europe.
随着大量廉价劳动力从农村向城市流入，这类原本卫生意识较弱的人群，聚居在简陋、高密度、卫生条件极差的居住环境中，给传染病的大规模爆发创造了天然的条件。
With the massive influx of cheap labour from rural to urban areas, such groups of people with low health awareness are concentrated in poor, high-density living conditions with poor sanitary conditions, creating the natural conditions for large-scale outbreaks of infectious diseases.
与小农经济时代分散割裂的社会结构不同，除了工业生产本身带来的诸多卫生问题之外，人口一旦形成大规模流动和聚集，疫情的蔓延概率、防控难度就将呈几何级数增加，出现井喷式爆发。
Unlike the fragmented social structures of the era of small-scale peasant economies, in addition to the many health problems caused by industrial production itself, once large-scale population movements and agglomerations are formed, the probability of the spread of the epidemic and the difficulty of prevention and control will increase exponentially, with well-spouted outbreaks.
1842年，英国著名公共卫生学家查德威克发表了现代公共卫生起源史上最重要的文件——《大不列颠劳动人口卫生状况报告》（Report Sanitary of Great Labouring Population Britain）。
In 1842, Britain's leading public-health scientist, John Chadwick, published the most important document in the history of the origins of modern public health - the Report of Great Britain's Working Population.
该报告为六年后英国通过人类历史上第一个现代公共卫生法案（The 1848 Public Health Act）奠定了基础。
The report laid the foundation for the passage six years later of the first modern public health act in human history.
在这部法案中，明确规定了由中央政府设立专门机构，在公共卫生领域承担责任和义务，包括在供水、排污、垃圾处理、住房等问题上施行行政干预。
In this Act, it is specified that the central Government shall establish special institutions to assume responsibilities and obligations in the field of public health, including administrative intervention in matters of water supply, sewage, waste disposal, housing, etc.
1848年，流行霍乱的英国，通过了人类历史上第一个现代公共卫生法案中国的现代公共卫生起源于战乱年代。
In 1848, cholera-endemic Britain passed the first modern public health bill in human history.
战争、饥荒带来人口大面积流动聚集，也导致疫病的蔓延。
Wars and famines cause large-scale population movements and agglomerations, which also lead to the spread of epidemics.
1910年，伍连德在中国第一次全面应用现代公共卫生理论和方式扑灭东北鼠疫，让中国主流社会第一次看到了现代公共卫生的威力，也为全世界传染病防控贡献了中国经验。
In 1910, for the first time in China, Woolende used modern public health theories and methods to stamp out the plague. This enabled mainstream Chinese society to see for the first time the power of modern public health and contributed to the prevention and control of infectious diseases worldwide.
20世纪初期，正是各种疾病大疫肆虐中国的非常时期。
In the early 20th century, it was a time of disease and epidemics in China.
在缺医少药的中央苏区，党就把组织群众卫生运动，军民协同开展卫生防病工作，当作关系革命成败的一件大事来抓。
In the Central Soviet area, where there is a shortage of doctors and medicines, the Party has taken the organization of mass health campaigns and coordinated civil-military health and disease prevention work as a major concern for the success or failure of the revolution.
1929年，毛泽东同志在起草《古田会议决议》时就指出：军政机关对于卫生问题，再不能像从前一样不注意，以后各种会议，应该充分讨论卫生问题。
Comrade Mao Zedong pointed out in 1929, when drafting the resolution of the Gutian Conference, that the military and political organs should no longer pay as little attention to health as before, and that health issues should be fully discussed at subsequent conferences and meetings.
在公共卫生上，五六十年代的新中国曾经取得过空前绝后的成就。
In terms of public health, New China in the 1950s and 1960s achieved unprecedented successes.
运动式地开展卫生工作，直接带来了建国后全民健康水平的大幅度提高。
Campaigning for health directly led to a significant improvement in the health of the whole nation after the founding of the People's Republic.
刚结束战乱的新中国，早期的卫生防疫仍然以消除广泛威胁国民健康的传染病和地方性疾病为主要目标，而此时的经济力量和医护人员储备并不允许大办医院。
In New China, where war has just ended, early sanitary and epidemic prevention still has as its main objective the elimination of infectious and endemic diseases that threaten the health of the whole nation at a time when economic forces and medical and health-care reserves do not permit large-scale hospitals.
于是在1949年1-月中央军委召开的全国卫生行政会议上，提出了预防在先、预防第一的卫生方针。
Thus, at the National Conference on Health Administration convened by the CMC in January-March 1949, the government put forward the policy of prevention first and prevention first.
同年组建的卫生部，也设立有专门的公共卫生局。
The Ministry of Health, established the same year, also has a special Public Health Bureau.
如今家中七十岁以上的老人，可能都还对上世纪50年代轰轰烈烈的爱国卫生运动印象深刻，当时举国动员的除四害，提出的主要口号是粉碎敌人在朝鲜战场发动的细菌战争。
Today, people over the age of 70 may still be impressed by the great patriotic health campaign of the 1950s, when the whole country mobilized under the slogan of smashing the germ war launched by the enemy on the Korean battlefield.
1958年，在得知江西省余江县消灭血吸虫病之后，毛泽东主席夜不能寐，兴奋写下《七律·送瘟神二首》人口大国和多样化的农业经济结构，决定了每天都有可能出现突发公共卫生事件。
In 1958, after learning of the eradication of schistosomiasis in Yujiang County, Jiangxi Province, Chairman Mao Zedong couldn't sleep at night and wrote excitedly: "Seven Laws Send Misery Two" The large population and diversified agricultural economic structure determine that public health emergencies can occur every day.
新中国早期的几场重大战疫，几乎都是以临时性、强制性明显的行政手段来处理危机——从1961年的广东阳江霍乱，到1988年上海甲肝流行，一直到2003年的非典爆发。
In the early days of New China, almost all major epidemics were dealt with by temporary, coercive and obvious administrative means - from the epidemic in Yangjiang, Guangdong in 1961, to hepatitis A in Shanghai in 1988, to the SARS outbreak in 2003.
这种在特定情况下能起到立竿见影效果的处理方式，也造成了整个系统对主政官员应对能力的依赖。
This approach, which can have an immediate impact in a given situation, also results in a system-wide reliance on the responsiveness of principal and administrative officials.
针对疫情组建的临时机构，随着危机的结束而解散，处理危机的宝贵经验没有及时总结、形成系统化制度化的经验和全国共享。
The provisional institutions formed for the epidemic were disbanded with the end of the crisis, and the valuable experience of crisis management was not captured in a timely manner, systematized and institutionalized and shared across the country.
当我们动用举国之力，拿下一场场“战疫”胜利之后，鼠疫、天花、霍乱、结核、血吸虫……这些生于贫穷落后时代的流行病也逐渐退出我们的日常，此刻的中国卫生防疫系统，在经济建设的浪潮中突然陷入了一种空转的迷茫状态。
When we use the national strength to win a battle against "epidemic," plague, smallpox, cholera, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis... these epidemic diseases born in the poor and backward times also gradually withdrew from our daily life.
另外一个同期发生的变化是，随着临床医学的全面崛起，医疗和卫生这两个词，走向了另外一个此消彼长——临床医学走上中心舞台，人们应对疾病的策略和手段转型，卫生开始退居幕后。
Another change that has occurred in the same period is that, with the rise of clinical medicine, the terms medical care and hygiene have moved to the other side of the spectrum - clinical medicine has taken centre stage, people's strategies and responses to disease have shifted, and health has retreated behind the scenes.
把矛盾带入另一个旋涡的，是二十余年的医疗资源市场化。
It is the marketization of medical resources in more than twenty years that brings the contradiction to another vortex.
对公共卫生投入严重不足，在无形中形成了一个逻辑陷阱——重治疗轻预防。
Serious lack of investment in public health, in the form of a logic trap - heavy treatment light prevention.
对于医院来说，收治病人越多，效益越好；而对于防疫站来说，见效并非立竿见影，反而工作开展越多，花销就越大。
For hospitals, the more patients admitted, the better the benefits; for the prevention stations, the more the work, the greater the cost.
1994年的分税制改革，让卫生防疫系统不再享受国家财政的全额拨款。
In 1994, the tax system was reformed so that the health and epidemic prevention system would no longer receive full funding from the State budget.
地方财政的捉襟见肘，各地主政官员对经济增长的迷信，让各地防疫站不得不把大量精力转向集体创收，本职业务则主要靠良心、讲奉献，大量非专业人员充斥其中。
Local financial constraints and the superstition of local government officials about economic growth have forced epidemic prevention stations everywhere to turn a great deal of energy into collective income-generating activities, which are largely based on conscience and dedication and are filled with large numbers of non-professionals.
这一混乱局面一直持续十几年，直到2003年非典爆发才猛然惊醒。
The chaos lasted for more than a decade until the SARS outbreak in 2003.
非典时期，在街头发放药物的防疫站人员再度沦陷的公卫防线在这次疫情中，频频卷入争议旋涡的中国疾病预防控制中心（以下简称CDC），成立于2002年1月23日。
During the SARS period, the public defense line, where people were distributing drugs on the streets again fell, was set up on January 23, 2002 by the Chinese Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which was embroiled in the controversy.
这个填补中国顶层疾病预防控制机构空白的CDC，最初筹建于2000年，牵头人是时任中国预防医学科学院院长李立明。
The CDC, which fills a gap in China's top-level disease-prevention and control agency, was originally created in 2000, led by Li Liming, then president of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
在论证之初，李立明即提出了大卫生观念下的国家疾病预防控制机构设计理念，在他的蓝图中，公共卫生应当包括疾病预防控制、健康保护和健康促进三个方面，并应考虑生命全过程的卫生保健服务。
At the beginning of the argument, Li Liming put forward the idea of designing a national disease prevention and control organization under the concept of great hygiene. In his blueprint, public health should include three aspects: disease prevention and control, health protection and health promotion, and should consider the whole life course of health care services.
中国疾控中心正式挂牌11个月后，非典爆发。
SARS broke out 11 months after China's CDC was officially listed.
这位在非典战役中表现突出、仕途被人们普遍看好的公共卫生专家，却在一年之后，因为一起SARS病毒实验室泄露事件引咎辞职。
The public-health expert, widely regarded as a public-health expert at the battle of SARS, resigned a year later after a leak from a SARS laboratory.
SARS危机像一面镜子，将此前中国防疫体系的弊病彻底暴露于世。
The SARS crisis served as a mirror to expose the ills of China's previous epidemic prevention system.
这场危机之后，公共卫生的重要性被再次提到国家安全层面讨论，数百亿的资金投入到这个领域。
In the wake of the crisis, the importance of public health was once again brought to the national security discourse, with tens of billions of dollars invested in this area.
到2007年，国内各级疾控中心已有3585个，全职人员共近20万人。
By 2007, China had 3,585 CDC's at all levels, with nearly 200,000 full-time employees.
全国31个省，98%以上的市和94%以上的县建立卫生监督机构，卫生监督人员近10万人。
In 31 provinces, more than 98 percent of cities and 94 percent of counties have set up health supervision institutions, with nearly 100,000 health supervisors.
这段以非典惨痛教训换来的血本改革，确实在日后发挥了积极作用。
This bloody reform, bought with the painful lessons of SARS, has indeed played a positive role in the future.
2013年3月，上海等地相继出现了不明原因肺炎的死亡病例，疾控人员一方面迅速在海量资料库里搜索了近万篇文献，同时依托技术储备寻找病毒的蛛丝马迹。
In March 2013, cases of unexplained pneumonia were reported in Shanghai and other places, and disease controllers quickly searched huge databases for nearly 10,000 documents while relying on technical reserves to find traces of the virus.
经过连续5天的实验工作，终于发现了一种新型的H7N9流感病毒。
After five days of experiments, a new type of H7N9 influenza virus has been discovered.
随后病毒的全部基因密码被迅速破解，确认了病原体，研制出的检测试剂被立即发往全国。
The entire genetic code of the virus was then quickly cracked, the pathogen was identified and the developed detection reagent was immediately sent to the country.
实现了对新型病原的严密监测、迅速确认和应急反应，为政府制定防御措施提供了科学依据。
It has realized the close monitoring, rapid identification and emergency response of the new pathogen, and provided the scientific basis for the government to make the defense measures.
据原中国CDC主任王宇回忆，日后世界卫生组织（WHO）对此次事件的评价是：中国应对H7N9禽流感疫情，堪称全球典范。
'China's response to the H7N9 avian flu epidemic is a global model, 'the World Health Organization said later, according to Wang Yu, former director of China's CDC.
然而仅仅7年后，武汉突发的疫情，却让中国的疾控中心再次饱受质疑——为何针对这次病毒的研究效率远超当年，信息通报却如此滞后？直接把中国CDC推上风口浪尖的是网友热议的论文事件。
Only seven years later, however, the Wuhan outbreak has once again raised questions about China's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - why research on the virus is so much more efficient than it was when information was so delayed?
被无端劝留在家的网友们，一时间将所有的怨气都集中撒向CDC——为什么到了这个时候，你还有空发论文，而不是直接公布信息？作为直接的当事方，中国CDC也随即回应叫屈：论文提出的‘人传人’观点是回顾性推论，目的是及时发布信息，有助于国内外专业同行及时了解疾病特征，共同评估和研判疫情，改进防控策略。
As a direct party, China CDC immediately responded to the call: The idea of 'person-to-person' is a retrospective inference that helps professional counterparts at home and abroad to understand the characteristics of the disease, jointly assess and evaluate the disease, and improve prevention and control strategies.
这次事件，也折射出CDC目前在中国卫生系统中的尴尬地位。
The incident also reflects the current embarrassing position of the CDC in China's health system.
中国CDC流行病首席科学家曾光在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时谈到：相比美国的疾控中心是政府部门，中国的疾控中心只是一个干活的事业单位，没有决策权。
Compared to the U.S. CDC is a government department, China's CDC is a work unit with no decision-making power, Zeng Guang, China's chief epidemiological scientist, told China News Weekly.
而一位一线从业者的评论留言则更具体：美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深专家张作风教授在接受《知识分子》专访时也表示：这次疫情，公共卫生流行病学专家全线静悄悄，与政府和管理部门对预防医学和公共卫生的不重视有主要关系。
In an interview with Intellectuals, Zhang style, vice-dean and senior epidemiologist at the UCLA School of Public Health, said: The epidemic, the total silence of public health epidemiologists, is largely related to the low priority given to preventive medicine and public health by the government and management.
然而这些申辩，迅速淹没在一浪高过一浪的网络情绪中。
However, these arguments, quickly submerged in a wave of Internet sentiment.
但是问题的答案，或许恰恰隐藏在这些微弱的声音中。
But the answer, perhaps, lies in these faint voices.
2003年非典初期的教训，相当部分正是源于当时公共卫生体系的脆弱无力。
Much of the lesson of the early SARS years of 2003 stems from the weakness of the public health system at the time.
对疫情严重性的认识不足、对病原体的争论、协调机制的缺乏、信息披露的严重滞后，使政府在SARS的第一轮遭遇战中坐失良机，陷入被动。
The lack of awareness of the severity of the epidemic, the debate over pathogens, the lack of coordination mechanisms, and the serious lag in information disclosure have left the Government in limbo during the first round of encounters with SARS.
SARS全国疫情传播链有专家分析，这次武汉疫情的早期阶段，仍然有与当年类似的因素在影响疫情发展。
The SARS national epidemic spread chain has the expert analysis, this Wuhan epidemic in the early stage, still has the same factors as that year in the development of the epidemic.
除了病毒确实来势汹汹外，一系列初期应对滞后带来的连锁反应，导致错过了控制疫情蔓延的最佳窗口期，造成后来八方驰援、四处堵漏的被动局面。
In addition to the fact that the virus was aggressive, the chain reaction of a series of initial response delays led to missing the best window for controlling the spread of the epidemic, resulting in a passive situation in which the eight parties rushed to help and left much to be desired.
本该成为疫情第一道防线的公共卫生体系，为何却在这次武汉战疫中再度沦陷？加深的医卫裂痕审视任何一项改革的得失，都需要从特定的时空背景下来寻找参照物。
Why did the public-health system, which was supposed to be the first line of defense, fall again in the Wuhan epidemic? The deepening rift in health care examines the gains and losses of any reform, and it is necessary to look for a frame of reference in a specific spatial and temporal context.
在全国疾控系统接近重编完成之时，恰逢卫生系统的另一件大事——新医改战车的轰然启动。
As the National Disease Control System nears completion, another major event in the health system - the roaring start of new health-care vehicles - is under way.
这场酝酿于2006年、启动于2009年的新医改，核心是解决基本医疗服务的公平问题。
The new health reform, conceived in 2006 and launched in 2009, focuses on equity in basic health services.
而其中负责筹资和分配的主导角色，主要由政府来担当。
The primary role in financing and distribution lies with the Government.
对于公众医疗来说，医疗卫生资源的有限性和公众医疗卫生需求的无限性，永远是最根本的矛盾。
For public health care, the limitation of medical and health resources and the unlimited public health needs are always the most fundamental contradiction.
这就涉及到资源在投入和分配时，不可能全面照顾，必然会有侧重、分阶段地投入。
This involves the fact that resources, when invested and allocated, cannot be taken care of in a comprehensive manner and will necessarily be focused and phased in.
对于各级政府来说，花了多少钱，治疗了多少病人，是一个可以量化的政绩指标。
How much money is spent and how many patients are treated is a quantifiable indicator of performance at all levels of government.
大笔资金优先投入到中段的治疗环节，保障生病患者解决就医问题，是最能体现改革成效的一项举措。
One of the best examples of the effectiveness of the reform is the priority given to the mid-course of treatment to ensure that sick patients have access to health care.
而上游的预防环节，工作做得越好，反而越太平无事——难以量化评估的成效，让公共卫生和疾控系统再一次成为被冷落的角色。
And upstream prevention - the better the job, the more peaceful - is difficult to quantify, making public health and disease-control systems once again neglected.
这个问题从2014-2019这五年间的投入经费便可看出。
This can be seen in the five-year investment period 2014 - 2019.
2014年，国家公共卫生专项任务经费的项目拨款为5.29亿，而到了2019年，这笔预算下降到4.5亿，同比下降14.9%。
In 2014, the project allocation for funds earmarked for national public health was 529 million, but by 2019 it had fallen to 450 million, a decrease of 14.9 per cent from the previous year.
反之，2014年对公立医院的财政拨款为36.19亿，到2019年，这一预算增加到50.23亿，同比增长38.8%。
On the other hand, the budget allocated to public hospitals in 2014 was 3.619 billion, which by 2019 had increased to 5.023 billion, an increase of 38.8 per cent over the same period.
另一个数据是，公立医院总数量在2014-2019这五年里减少了1364家，疾控中心数量却几乎稳定不变。
Another figure is that the total number of public hospitals has decreased by 1,364 over the five-year period 2014-2019, while the number of CDC centres has remained almost constant.
也就是说，这笔经费要继续养活国内3000多家疾控机构。
In other words, the fund will continue to feed the country's more than 3,000 disease control agencies.
而随着各体系人员待遇的普遍水涨船高，分摊到每家机构的经费预算可见一斑。
And with the general rise in the treatment of personnel across the system, the allocation of funds to each agency budget can be seen.
这一轮此消彼长的背后，医疗和卫生两个体系之间的裂痕被再一次放大。
Behind this round of trade-offs, the rift between the health-care and health-care systems has been magnified once again.
这种举措带来的另外一个悖论是，坐堂行医的医院，实际状况是在等人生病，只治不防——这是一种被动式、断裂的医疗服务链。
Another paradox of this approach is that hospitals in which doctors sit are actually waiting for people to get sick, just to be prevented - a passive, fractured chain of medical services.
而对于国家来说，在临床治疗环节投入越多，资源消耗越快，也导致医疗费用不正常的无序增长，钱越来越不够花。
But for the country, the more investment in clinical treatment, the faster the consumption of resources, but also led to abnormal and disorderly increase in medical expenses, money less and less spent.
这种中段灭火、越扑越旺的投入方式，间接带来了对公众医疗卫生教育的无暇顾及，反之却是看病人数的激增。
This medium-term fire-fighting, more and more aggressive investment, indirectly brought about the public health education leisure, on the contrary, the number of medical treatment surges.
根据2019年国家卫健委公开的预算，全年投入到公共卫生宣传的拨款仅有700万元。
According to the 2019 public budget, only $7 million was allocated to public health promotion throughout the year.
这对于一个14亿人口的大国来说，几乎是一个难以想象的数字。
This is an almost unimaginable number for a country of 1.4 billion people.
这就造成了阻滞医改的一大新恶性循环——优质医生和医疗资源集中在大型公立医院，公众对医疗卫生疾病缺乏基本知识，头疼感冒全部往大医院挤。
This has created a new vicious circle that is blocking health-care reform - the concentration of quality doctors and health-care resources in large public hospitals, the lack of basic public knowledge about health-care diseases, and the crowding of headaches and colds in large hospitals.
这次武汉肺炎早期，发热症状者纷纷涌向协和、同济等三甲医院，造成对医疗资源的严重挤兑，不仅耽搁自己就医，还极大地增加交叉感染的风险，便是这一恶果的直接体现。
In the early stage of Wuhan Pneumonia, people with febrile symptoms poured into the three A hospitals, such as Concorde and Tongji, resulting in a severe run on medical resources, which not only delayed their own medical treatment, but also greatly increased the risk of cross-infection is a direct manifestation of this evil.
人满为患的三甲医院门诊（图片来源：新京报网）另一方面，资源配置的失衡，导致人才自然往高处流动。
Imbalance in the allocation of resources, on the other hand, has led to a natural flow of talent to higher ground.
对于一些有抱负、有能力的医学人才来说，公共卫生系统成了一个没有前途的地方。
For some aspiring and competent medical professionals, the public health system has become a hopeless place.
其次，2018以来，疾病预防控制机构的待遇开始按照参公事业单位试点改革，但收效甚微，非典以来，逐步取消了原来的营利性收费项目，退出市场化投资与经营。
Second, since 2018, the treatment of disease prevention and control agencies began to follow the pilot reform of public institutions, but with little success. Since SARS, the original profit-making fee items have been phased out and market-oriented investments and operations withdrawn.
虽然公益性、服务型色彩更加浓厚，但是捉襟见肘的经费投入，也直接带来了从业人员的整体收入下降。
Although the public welfare, service-oriented color is more dense, but the overstretched financial input, also directly brought the overall income of the employees to decline.
丧失奋斗动力的一线人员，大量时间在应付国家下达的各种指标任务。
Front-line workers who have lost their motivation to struggle spend a lot of time dealing with the various target tasks assigned by the State.
同样是事业单位，公立医院一边享受着国家的拨款，一边在继续开展着尾大不掉的营收项目；而另外一边的疾控中心，只能在回归公益性服务的行政命令下节衣缩食，在整个卫生系统中被逐步弱化、边缘化。
Similarly, public hospitals, while enjoying state funding, continue to run large revenue-generating projects, while the CDC, on the other hand, can only tighten its belt under an executive order to return to public welfare services, being gradually weakened and marginalized throughout the health system.
2019年6月，国务院发展研究中心召开的中国医改十年研讨会上，曾光教授便犀利指出目前疾控系统的人心浮动和人才加速外流现状：近三年来，仅国家疾控中心流失的中青年骨干计有百人之多，有些地方疾控机构人才流失可能更严重。
In June 2019, at a ten-year seminar on China's health-care reform convened by the Development Research Center of the State Council, Zeng pointed out that the current disease control system has experienced rapid brain gain and brain drain.
与人才流失并行的，是系统内人才评价标准的错乱，科研导向与实用导向混淆不清——对各级公共卫生机构的人员评级、晋升、选优都要求拿出科研成果，选人用人唯学历、唯职称论。
In parallel with the brain drain, there is a confusion between the criteria for evaluating talent within the system, and between research orientation and practical orientation - the grading, promotion, and merit-based selection of personnel at all levels of public health institutions require scientific research results, and the selection of candidates is based on academic qualifications and professional titles only.
实际上，很多市县一级的公共卫生机构，根本不具备科研的条件，也没有科研的必要。
In fact, many public health institutions at the municipal and county levels simply do not have the conditions for scientific research, nor do they need it.
相对于逐渐提高学历要求的医院来说，在整个卫生系统中，疾控中心还算是一个低门槛的铁饭碗。
The CDC is a low-threshold iron rice bowl across the health system, compared to hospitals that are gradually upgrading their qualifications.
这也导致了在各地公共卫生队伍中，充斥着大量非专业人员和关系户，在系统内形成了所谓的占位性病变。
This has also led to the creation of so-called space-occupying lesions within the system, with a large number of non-professionals and associates in the local public health workforce.
医疗教育的精英化，也让整个卫生系统弥漫着一股招人用人追求高大上的盲目风气。
The meritocracy of medical education also makes the whole health system permeate with the blind atmosphere of hiring people to pursue the lofty.
医学博士满天飞，稍有能力的人都不愿意到疾控中心，更不愿意从事基层工作——这场围堵病毒的全国联防战中，也直接暴露出诸多基层疾控人员，包括卫生管理人员的专业性缺乏问题。
With doctors flying around, even the least able are reluctant to go to the CDC, much less work at the grass-roots level - a national campaign to contain the virus has also directly exposed the lack of professionalism of many grass-roots disease controllers, including health managers.
以上种种客观现象叠加，形成了新医改中这一对纠结的矛盾共同体。
Above all objective phenomenon superimposition, formed in the new medical reform this pair of entangled contradictory community.
但是我们也不能因此忘了一个重要的主观因素——近年来人们对传染性疾病防治意识的松懈。
But we should not lose sight of an important subjective factor - the lax awareness of infectious disease control in recent years.
随着现代人生活水平的提高、生活方式的变化和生活节奏的加快，公共卫生的关注重点逐步转向慢病防控，例如对心脑血管疾病、肿瘤、糖尿病、呼吸系统疾病（慢性阻塞性肺疾病）、癌症等非传染性疾病的预防工作。
With the improvement of modern living standards, lifestyle changes and the acceleration of the pace of life, the focus of public health has gradually shifted to chronic disease prevention, such as cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, diabetes, respiratory diseases (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), cancer and other non-communicable diseases.
而对于突发性、区域性明显的传染性疾病的防控，人们从意识深处似乎已经放松了警惕。
As for the prevention and control of sudden, regionally obvious infectious diseases, people seem to have relaxed their vigilance from the depths of their consciousness.
正应了那句话：只有当危机来临时，人们才会想起它的重要性。
It is only when a crisis comes that people think of its importance.
百年大计近日，黄奇帆发表专题文章，提出疫情下对中国公共卫生防疫体系改革的建议。
Recently, Huang Qifan published a special article on the reform of China's public health and epidemic prevention system under the epidemic situation.
文章认为，从整个社会治理的角度来看，中国各个城市目前都还缺少一套完善的公共卫生体系、传染病防范体系、ICU重症隔离资源管理体系。
From the point of view of social governance, every Chinese city still lacks a complete public health system, infectious disease prevention system and ICU severe isolation resource management system.
他指出：预防型的公共卫生防疫体系建立是百年大计，具有长远投资效益。
He pointed out that the establishment of a preventive public health epidemic prevention system is a 100-year plan, with long-term investment benefits.
从社会经济发展全局高度，我们需要重新梳理公共卫生体系建设的定位和价值，而从卫生系统内部，则需要首先破解弥合裂痕的难题。
From the overall height of social and economic development, we need to re-comb the positioning and value of the public health system construction, and from within the health system, we need to first crack the crack.
世界卫生组织（WHO）的各国专家们，近年来纷纷将弥合裂痕作为战略口号提出。
Experts from the World Health Organization (WHO) have in recent years come up with bridging the rift as a strategic slogan.
这并非中国特色的难题。
This is not a problem with Chinese characteristics.
在西方国家，弥合裂痕的课题早在上世纪七十年代便开始探索，美国原洛克菲勒基金会健康部主任卡尔L·怀特，在其1991年所著的《弥合裂痕——流行病学、医学和公众的卫生》一书中，也提到了这项努力在早期所陷入的尴尬：1.费用上涨2.资源分配不当3.医学领域内人员分布的高度不均4.误将技术进步当做科学进步……书中指出，这些在发达国家日益严重的现象，在发展中国家则更加混乱。
In the West, the issue of healing cracks began to be explored as early as the 1970s, and Carl L. White, a former Rockefeller Foundation Director of Health, noted the early embarrassment of the effort in his 1991 book Healing the Cracks: Epidemiology, Medicine, and Public Health.
作者同时也提出自己的观点：最理想的公共卫生服务是在管理和分配方面，基于以流行病学为基础的信息系统，各类学术机构、管理机构和卫生保健工作人员相互协调的有机结合体。
The author also argues that the ideal public health service is an organic combination of management and distribution, based on epidemiological-based information systems, coordination among academic institutions, regulatory bodies and health-care workers.
哈佛大学公共卫生学博士、北京大学公共卫生学院教授宁毅近日指出，疫和病是完全不同的两个概念。
According to Ning Yi, PhD in public health at Harvard University and a professor at the Peking University School of Public Health, epidemics and diseases are two entirely different concepts.
防控疫情，需要具备全局性、系统性的思维。
Prevention and control of the epidemic requires a holistic and systematic approach.
在传染病防控中，相对于救治更多是在战术层面施策，公共卫生和疾病防控才是在战略层面的体系保障。
In the prevention and control of infectious diseases, it is at the tactical level that public health and disease prevention and control are the system guarantees at the strategic level.
这次武汉战疫之后，或许我们需要认真反思的，是如何让医改不仅仅沦为片面的医院改革或者医药改革，而是真正成为保障人民生命健康的大卫生改革。
After the Wuhan Battle Disease, perhaps we need to seriously reflect on how to make medical reform not only a partial hospital reform or medical reform, but a real health reform to protect people's lives and health.
除了经费、资源的平衡投入外，还有人才结构的优化和整体机制的健全。
In addition to the balanced investment of funds and resources, there is also the optimization of the human resources structure and the integrity of the overall mechanism.
公共卫生管理具有极强的专业性，但却又远远超出单纯的医学范畴。
Public health management has a strong professional, but it goes far beyond the purely medical category.
除了医疗和科研系统外，其广泛连接公共管理、应急保障、文化教育、体育运动、舆论宣传、街道社区、环卫城建等若干个社会治理分支系统。
In addition to the medical and scientific research system, it links several branches of social governance, such as public administration, emergency care, cultural education, sports, public opinion campaigns, street communities and sanitation city construction.
这次全国抗疫中，有两位具有公共卫生专业履历的省级官员备受关注：一位是四川省长尹力，曾在苏联学习卫生经济与卫生事业管理专业，此前长期在国家卫计委分管公共卫生应急指挥工作。
Two provincial officials with a history of public health have gained prominence in the national epidemic: Yin Li, Sichuan's minister, who studied health economics and health management in the Soviet Union and had long been in charge of public health emergency command at the State Health and Planning Commission.
本次四川防疫部署，一度被网友热议为教科书级别的抗疫。
This Sichuan epidemic prevention deployment, once was the netizen hot discussion for the textbook-grade anti-epidemic.
另一位则是刚刚临危受命，从国家卫健委空降担任湖北省委常委的王贺胜，毕业于天津医学院卫生系，同样具有丰富的卫生系统管理经验。
The other is just under orders, from the National Health Committee parachute as Hubei Provincial Standing Committee Wang He-sheng, graduated from Tianjin Medical School Department of Health, also has rich experience in health system management.
另一个现象是，这次各地因抗疫不力被问责或者免职的卫健系统官员，则大多数不具备医疗或者卫生管理专业背景。
Another phenomenon is that most of the health-care system officials who have been held accountable or dismissed for their failure to fight the epidemic do not have a professional background in medical or health management.
这也侧面反映出了当前卫健系统中，专业管理型人才的严重不足，以及管理岗位选才用人的问题。
This also reflects when the avantgarde health system, the serious shortage of professional management personnel, as well as the management of the problem of the selection of personnel.
相对于某些临床和学术领域的专家型人才，公共卫生领域的人才往往有其所长——知识面更杂、涉及面更广，更适合在某些特定领域担任管理角色。
Compared with some clinical and academic professionals, public health professionals often have their own strengths - more diverse in knowledge, broader in scope, and better suited to management roles in specific areas.
弥合裂痕，带给从业队伍建设的思考，是如何从教育改革入手，培养多层次、复合型、应用型的人才梯队，而不仅仅是研究室里的专家。
The way to bridge the rift and bring about the construction of the professional team is how to train multi-level, complex and applied talents echelons, not just the experts in the research room.
在机构内部，推行分层、分类、分级的考核评价体系，以保证人才资源的最合理配置。
Within the organization, a hierarchical, classified and graded appraisal system is implemented to ensure the most rational allocation of human resources.
从机制保障上，给专业疾控机构充分赋权，简化行政审批，完善立法，健全针对重大突发性传染疾病的联动响应机制，并设立危机应对的常备队伍。
In terms of mechanism guarantee, professional CDC is fully empowered, administrative examination and approval is simplified, legislation is improved, linkage response mechanism for major sudden-onset infectious diseases is improved, and a standing team for crisis response is established.
从健康教育上，加大健康教育和全民疾病科普，转变以预防为主，防治结合全民健康理念……实际上，上述建议和措施，近年来在各路公共卫生专家的建言献策中也纷纷提到，在某些地区也局部推行过试点改革尝试，但是从全国范围来看，从上至下缺乏根本性动力，仍然是全局性改革推进迟缓的最主要原因。
In terms of health education, health education and popular science for the whole population have been transformed from prevention-oriented to prevention-oriented and integrated with the concept of national health. In fact, the above-mentioned recommendations and measures have been partially implemented in recent years by various public health experts, but the lack of underlying momentum from the top down remains the main reason for the slow progress of overall reform.
人们总是容易好了伤疤忘了疼，就像这次再度在野味上栽了跟头一样。
People tend to get over their scars and forget about the pain, just as they did with the game again.
世界没有如果我们不可能预测得到，像SARS、新冠这样的病毒，下一次会在何时何地再次袭击我们。
The world has no viruses like SARS or the New Crown that we might not be able to predict when and where we will be hit again.
我们也无法假设，如果没有这场灾难，我们是不是还在侥幸中继续着对野生动物的饕餮。
Nor can we assume that, had it not been for the disaster, we would not have been lucky enough to continue gluttonous wildlife.
逝去的生命无法再挽回，但一次次危机却不断鞭策我们进步。
The lives of the past can no longer be saved, but successive crises continue to spur us progress.
人类工业化进程造成的生态失衡以及生活方式的变化，已经导致新的传染性疾病频频出现，不少曾经征服的古老疾病正在卷土重来。
Ecological imbalances caused by the process of human industrialization and changes in lifestyles have led to the emergence of new infectious diseases and the re-emergence of many old diseases that had been conquered.
中国史无前例的人口基数、加速的城市化进程、随着经济活动和交通发达而大大增强的人口流动性，为传染病的流行爆发埋下了种子。
China's unprecedented population base, accelerating urbanization, and greatly increased mobility as a result of economic activity and transportation, have sown the seeds of an epidemic of infectious diseases.
动荡的世界和基因技术的发展，让生物危机的潘多拉魔盒打开只是时间问题。
With a turbulent world and advances in genetic technology, it is only a matter of time before the Pandora's Box of Biological Crisis opens.
我们不能将每一次战胜危机的希望，都寄托在政府的应急施策，寄托在医护人员的舍身救治，寄托在各行各业的众志成城上。
We cannot hope to overcome every crisis, all in the government's emergency policy, placed in the sacrifice of medical personnel, in all walks of life on the city.
不能等到病毒攻陷我们的城市和日常生活的时候，我们才用血肉之躯筑起最后一道防线。
We cannot wait for the virus to take over our cities and our daily lives before we build the last line of defense in flesh and blood.
世界没有如果，也不会因为灾难而重启。
The world has no if, nor will it restart because of disaster.
反思灾难，是因为我们的生命只有一次，而这仅有一次的生命，其实非常脆弱。
Reflect on the disaster, because our lives only once, and this only once life, in fact very fragile.
毕竟，我们创造美好的生活，也是为了更健康的活着。
After all, we create a better life and live healthier lives.
参考文献：[1] 黄建始《从SARS危机看中国应建立什么样的公共危机应对体系》，2003[2]陈日华《19世纪英国城镇卫生改革》，2007[3] 蒋浙安《查德威克与近代英国公共卫生立法及改革》，2005[4] 陈健尔《中国医疗卫生改革回顾和展望》，2007[5] 新华社《全国98%以上市和94%以上县已建立卫生监督机构》，2008[6] 唐金陵《疫情肆虐下的公共卫生回望与思考》，2020[7] 曾光、黄建始、张胜年《中国公共卫生》，2009[8] 神州学人，杨宇《李立明的「大卫生观」》，2016[9] 首届中国疾控中心主任年会，李立明《中国公共卫生领域热点问题回顾》，2002[10] 民生周刊，《王宇：疾控保障应由政府全额投入》，2014[11] 胡大一《弥合裂痕，应对挑战——论全面实施以人民健康为中心的健康中国战略》，2019[12]黄奇帆《疫情下对中国公共卫生防疫体系改革的建议》，2020[13] [美]卡尔L·怀特著，张孔来等译《弥合裂痕——流行病学、医学和公众的卫生》，1995本文系作者个人观点，获权转自“钛禾产业观察”责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
Hwang Jianghuang's First Annual Meeting of China's CDC Directors, "Healing Crises: A Health Care Strategy for China's Public Health," by Li Liuming, 2002 & # 91; 2 & # 93; China's Public Health Care Reform in the 19th Century, 2007 & # 91; 4 & # 93; Jiang Zhener's China Health Reform Review and Prospects.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的中国公共卫生体系。
China's Public Health System under the Epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "疫情下的中国公共卫生体系";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; China's public health system with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "只有当危机来临时，人们才会想起它的重要性";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; only when a crisis comes.
title: '难产又难卖，苹果怎样熬过疫情期？',。
How did Apple survive the epidemic? & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周',。
Saving Wuhan: The hardest three weeks & apos; & quot; at & quot; since sealing the city.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '武汉爱情故事',。
Wuhan love story & apos; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '情人节2020：没有鲜花，只有套套',。
Valentine's Day 2020: No flowers, only AT & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
