新冠肺炎诊疗方案第六版：“老药”阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹入选。
The sixth edition of New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program: "Old Medicine" Abidor, chloroquine phosphate were selected.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹成为治疗新冠肺炎的试用药物，仍需要临床试验继续验证。
Abidol and chloroquine phosphate have become experimental drugs for the treatment of new crown pneumonia and continue to require clinical trials.
为防止以后再落被动局面，即便疫情结束，相关药物临床试验也应继续文|《财经》记者 赵天宇编辑 |孙爱民新型冠状病毒疫情暴发50多天来，虽无特效治疗药，但人们对疾病、药物的认知正在不断深入，筛选出的试用药物层出不穷。
Even if the outbreak is over, clinical trials of the related drugs should continue. Zhao Tianyu, a reporter with Caijing, has had no specific drugs for more than 50 days. Although there is no specific treatment, people's knowledge of diseases and drugs is deepening and new drugs have been screened out.
2020年2月19日，国家卫健委发布了《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》（下简称“第六版方案”），此前版本中“目前没有确认有效的抗病毒治疗方法”的说法，在新版本中未再出现。
On February 19, 2020, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial Version 6)" (hereinafter referred to as "the 6th Edition").
连日来呼声很高的磷酸氯喹、阿比多尔被纳入其中，作为抗病毒治疗的试用药物。
Chloroquine phosphate and Abidol, which have been vocal for days, have been included as trial antiviral drugs.
这两种药物，都属于有数十年历史名副其实的“老药”。
Both drugs are part of a veritable "old medicine" with a history of decades.
阿比多尔的历史可追溯到前苏联，主要用于治疗流感；磷酸氯喹用于临床则已有70多年的历史，原本主要用于治疗疟疾和和自身免疫性疾病。
Abidor's history goes back to the former Soviet Union and is mainly used to treat influenza; chloroquine phosphate has been used clinically for more than 70 years and was originally used mainly for malaria and autoimmune diseases.
此前在很多药企眼里，这两款药的前景并不被看好，通常是营收版图中的配角。
Previously, in the eyes of many pharmaceutical companies, these two drugs are not good prospects, usually in the revenue map of the supporting role.
尽管过去几天已有科研人员和机构为这两种药物积极“站台”，第六版方案的相关表述仍然严谨：声明试用药物的疗程均不超过10天，同时，建议在临床应用中进一步评价目前所试用药物的疗效。
Despite the fact that scientists and institutions have been actively "platform" for the two drugs in the past few days, the sixth edition of the plan remains rigorous: no trial treatment lasts more than 10 days, and further evaluation of the efficacy of currently tried drugs is recommended in clinical applications.
至此，新冠肺炎的试用药物共有4种，除了此次增加的磷酸氯喹、阿比多尔，仍保留了最初方案中的洛匹那韦/利托那韦、利巴韦林。
So far, the new crown pneumonia trial drugs have four kinds, except for the increase in chloroquine phosphate, Abidol, the original program of Lopinavir / Litonavir, Libavelin.
第六版方案提出，不建议同时应用3种及以上抗病毒药物，出现不可耐受的毒副作用时，应停止使用相关药物。
The sixth edition of the plan proposes not to recommend the simultaneous use of three or more antiviral drugs, the emergence of intolerable side effects, should stop the use of related drugs.
两款“老药”的入选，仿佛一个励志故事：两位坐了多年“冷板凳”的队员，突然被推到聚光灯下，成为先发队员。
Two "old drugs" were chosen as a motivational story: two players who had been on the bench for years were suddenly pushed into the limelight to become starters.
这两款药此前俨然是药企的“鸡肋”，或停产或少量生产。
These two drugs have been like the "chicken ribs" of pharmaceutical companies, or cut production or small quantities.
入选适用药物名单，对这两款“老药”或是逆转的机会。
Be included in the list of applicable drugs, for these two "old medicine" or the chance of reversal.
十几个省发函求药阿比多尔被纳入第六版方案，早有铺陈。
Dozens of provinces sent letters asking for medicine Abidor to be included in the sixth edition of the program, has been laid out.
2月4日，中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟团队，在武汉公布了阿比多尔治疗新冠病毒肺炎的研究成果：根据初步测试，在体外细胞实验中显示，阿比多尔在10-30微摩尔浓度下，与药物未处理的对照组比较，能有效抑制冠状病毒达到60倍，并且显著抑制病毒对细胞的病变效应。
On February 4, Li Lanjuan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level group of experts of the State Sanitary Commission, announced in Wuhan the results of the study on the treatment of Newcastle virus pneumonia.
彼时，李兰娟提出建议将阿比多尔列入国家卫健委的第六版诊疗指南。
At that time, Li Lanjuan suggested that Abidor be included in the sixth edition of the National Health Committee's clinical guide.
半个月后，这一建议如愿成真。
Half a month later, that proposal came true.
先声药业在海南省有盐酸阿比多尔分散片的生产线，总部在南京。
Acoustic Pharmaceutical has a production line for Abidol Hydrochloride Dispersion Tablets in Hainan Province, headquartered in Nanjing.
该公司总部人士告诉《财经》记者，大约在春节放假前一周，也就是2020年1月中旬，已经能直观的感受到外界对阿比多尔的需求直线上升。
About a week before the Spring Festival holiday, in mid-January 2020, demand for Mr. Abidor was' intuitively 'in demand, people at the company's headquarters told Caijing.
“湖北省和十几个省的新冠肺炎疫情防控应急指挥部，先后发函过来要求我们加紧生产。
"The emergency command for the prevention and control of pneumonia in Hubei Province and a dozen other provinces has sent letters asking us to step up production.
”上述先声药业人士说，当时各个地方的医药经销公司老总也向总部打电话，询问能否调配一些阿比多尔药物到当地。
Executives at local drug distribution companies also called headquarters to ask if they could deploy some of the drug, the people said.
那时，这家药企的工作人员已经觉察到情况比较紧张了。
By then, the company's staff had become aware that the situation was more tense.
从1月中旬，这家公司的阿比多尔制剂生产线24小时连轴转，40多名员工倒班，不间断生产。
Since mid-January, the company's Abidor production line has been running around the clock, with more than 40 employees working shifts without interruption.
春节过后，人员逐渐充足起来，现在约有一百人，仍在开足马力生产药物，这位员工说，“特别紧张地去做”。
After the Spring Festival, the staff gradually became more abundant, and now about 100 people are still producing drugs at full capacity, the employee said, "particularly nervous to do."
阿比多尔原本是用于治疗流感的药物，其历史可追溯至前苏联，由前苏联药物化学研究中心研制开发，主要适应症是A类、B类流感病毒引起的流行性感冒，同时对其他一些呼吸道病毒感染可能也有抗病毒活性。
Abidor, originally a medicine used to treat influenza, dates back to the former Soviet Union and was developed by the Drug Chemistry Research Centre of the former Soviet Union. The main indications are influenza A and B influenza viruses, and may also have antiviral activity for some other respiratory virus infections.
作为流感用药，阿比多尔虽出现在《流行性感冒抗病毒药物治疗与预防应用中国专家共识（2016版）》中，但并不是推荐用药。
As an influenza drug, Abidor appears in the Expert Consensus of China on the Treatment and Preventive Application of Influenza Antiviral Drugs (2016 Edition), but is not recommended.
已有的临床试验表明，阿比多尔200 毫克，每天3次，疗程5到10天，可以减少流感病程1.7天至2.65天。
Available clinical trials have shown that abidol is 200 mg, three times a day for 5 to 10 days and can reduce the course of influenza from 1.7 to 2.65 days.
世界卫生组织（WHO）发布的新甲型H1N1流感药物治疗指南中，则认为阿比多尔尚无充分的疗效和安全性证据，因而未推荐使用。
In its new guidelines for the treatment of influenza A (H1N1), released by the World Health Organization (WHO), Abidor is not recommended for use because it does not have sufficient evidence of efficacy or safety.
先声药业从2006年起开始生产阿比多尔药物，是中国较早的几家之一，至今未停产过。
Pioneer started producing the drug Abidol in 2006, one of the earliest in China, and has not stopped production.
此前，阿比多尔并不受重视，该公司的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，流感本来就是季节性疾病，即便很常见，“我们平时生个流感，谁会想到去吃这款药？”其他几款治疗流感的药物“红”了以后，阿比多尔就受到冷落，上述人士坦言，“这是市场上的现实情况”。
The company's staff told Caijing that the flu was a seasonal illness, even though it was common: "If we had a flu, who would have thought of taking it?" Abidor was left cold after the other flu drugs were "red" and admitted, "This is the reality in the market."
目前国内还在生产阿比多尔的厂商，日常产量一般比较小。
At present the domestic production of Abidor manufacturers, daily production is generally relatively small.
新冠疫情来临后，这家企业开足马力生产，超过一半阿比多尔药品供应湖北省，其余的则发往其他省，主要给到大的医院。
After the outbreak, the company ran at full capacity, with more than half of the drug supplied to Hubei province and the rest sent to other provinces, mainly to large hospitals.
目前有十几个来函“求药”的省份，要货量很大。
At present there are more than a dozen letters "seek medicine" in the provinces, to a large amount of goods.
药物的生产需要基于原料药，也就是药物中的有效成分，其后加入辅料，经一系列制备工艺，最终成为制剂，比如常见的胶囊、药片等。
The production of the drug is based on the API, the active ingredient in the drug, which is then added as an adjunct to a series of preparation processes that culminate in preparations such as common capsules, tablets, etc.
制药行业的规律就是，一旦某种药物需求量猛增，大家就开始担忧原料从何而来，因为这始终是掣肘因素。
The rule in the pharmaceutical industry is that once the demand for a particular drug soars, people start worrying about where the raw materials come from, because that is always a constraint.
以往经常见诸报端的原料药短缺议题，也令药企担忧，说起来就是“你的命运不能掌握在别人手里”。
The shortage of APIs, which used to appear in the press, also worries drug companies, saying "your fate is not in the hands of others."
上述先声药业人士表示，已经与其他药企达成合作意向，尝试开发阿比多尔原料药，同时也在向国家有关部门申请进口阿比多尔原料药。
The acoustics industry said it had reached an agreement with other pharmaceutical companies to try to develop the drug and was also applying to the national authorities for the import of abidol.
国家药监局网站显示，中国共有7个阿比多尔药品批文，其中既有原料药，也有制剂。
According to the website of the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision, there are seven drug licenses in China, including both APIs and preparations.
也有上市公司发声，比如瑞康医药(002589.SZ)2月5日在投资者关系互动平台上回答投资者提问时表示，目前公司有阿比朵尔在售，库存充足。
There are also listed companies, such as Ruikang Pharmaceuticals (002589.SZ), which responded to questions from investors on the Investor Relations Interactive platform on Feb. 5, saying it now has Abidol on the block and is well stocked.
磷酸氯喹：从停产到复产磷酸氯喹原本是一款治疗疟疾和和自身免疫性疾病的药物，在药物试用名单中，它是名副其实的“老药”，用于临床已经有70多年的历史。
chloroquine phosphate (chloroquine phosphate): Originally a drug used to treat malaria and autoimmune diseases, chloroquine phosphate is a veritable "old drug" used in clinical practice for more than 70 years.
2月17日下午，科技部生物中心副主任孙燕荣，在新闻发布会上表示：北京、广州、湖南几个省的十几家医院联合开展了关于磷酸氯喹对于新冠肺炎治疗的安全性、有效性的评价。
About a dozen hospitals in Beijing, Guangzhou and Hunan provinces jointly conducted an evaluation of the safety and efficacy of chloroquine phosphate in the treatment of new crown pneumonia, Sun Yanrong, deputy director of the Biological Center of the Ministry of Science and Technology, told a news conference.
临床上疗效显现，“可以明确的和大家讲，用药组优于对照组。
Clinical efficacy appeared, "can clearly and everybody, the drug group is superior to the control group.
”孙燕荣表示，将推荐尽快将其纳入新一版的诊疗指南。
Mr Sun said he would recommend incorporating it into the new edition of the guidelines as soon as possible.
尽管如此，该药物用于新冠肺炎的治疗的进程中，目前仍没有完成临床试验，而这是药物用于疾病治疗的必经之路。
Despite this, clinical trials have not been completed for the treatment of new crown pneumonia, which is the only way drugs can be used in the treatment of diseases.
在新冠肺炎疫情开始后，围绕着氯喹药物是否会有效，有科研人员2月4日在Cell Research发表过早期研究成果。
Researchers reported in Cell Research on February 4 whether chloroquine would be effective after the outbreak began.
研究中提到，氯喹在体外控制2019-nCoV感染方面非常有效。
Chloroquine has been shown to be very effective in controlling 2019-nCoV infections in vitro.
研究人员认为，由于这个化合物已用于具有安全跟踪记录的人类患者，并且显示出对各种疾病的有效效果，因此建议在患有新型冠状病毒疾病的患者中对药物进行评估。
The researchers believe that because the compound has been used in human patients with a safe track record and has shown to be effective against various diseases, it is recommended that the drug be evaluated in patients with a new coronavirus disease.
上述研究人员分别来自中国科学院武汉病毒研究所，以及军事医学科学院毒物药物研究所。
The researchers came from the Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Toxics Medicine of the Academy of Military Medicine.
然而，这样一种在新冠疫情中被寄予厚望的药物，却在此前面临多家药企纷纷停产的窘境。
However, such a new crown in the hope of the drug, but before a number of pharmaceutical companies have been cut off.
疫情暴发后，不少企业复产此药。
After the outbreak, many enterprises resumed production of the drug.
例如，同方康泰（01312.HK）2月3日称，旗下重庆康乐制药有限公司有生产原料药磷酸氯喹的能力，该司被工业和信息化部消费品司要求尽快恢复生产。
For example, Fang Kangtai (01312.HK) said on February 3 that its Chongqing Recreation and Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. had the ability to produce chloroquine phosphate, the bulk drug, and was ordered by the Consumer Products Division of the Ministry of Industry and Informatization to resume production as soon as possible.
2月3日，康乐制药的原料药磷酸氯喹已恢复生产。
On 3 February, production of chloroquine phosphate, a API from Connaught Pharmaceuticals, resumed.
类似的故事也发生在众生药业（002317.SZ），该司拥有磷酸氯喹片的生产批件，但多年未生产销售，直到2月10日，该司获得广东省药监局的应急审批，拿到《药品补充申请批件》，得以在疫情期间恢复磷酸氯喹片的生产。
A similar story occurred in the Anthropogenic Pharmaceutical Industry (002317.SZ), which had approval for the production of chloroquine phosphate tablets but did not produce them for sale for many years until 10 February, when it obtained emergency approval from the Guangdong Provincial Drug Administration and obtained the Drug Replenishment Request Authorization to resume the production of chloroquine phosphate tablets during the outbreak.
白云山（600332.SH）旗下光华药业也是类似情况。
Baiyun Shan (600332. SH) under the Guanghua Pharmaceutical Industry is a similar situation.
2月11日，上海医药（601607.SH）称其全资子公司上药中西已于2月3日复工生产，目前库存原料充足，第一批次磷酸氯喹片已于昨日（2月10日）正式交付，后续将以每隔3至5天左右一批的速度持续供应。
On February 11, Shanghai Medicine (601607.SH) said its wholly-owned subsidiary had resumed production in China and the West on February 3, that there were sufficient raw materials in stock and that the first batch of chloroquine sub-phosphate had been officially delivered yesterday (February 10), with subsequent deliveries continuing at a rate of about 3 to 5 days.
该公司坦言，磷酸氯喹作为治疗新冠病毒药物的效果仍在临床试验中，目前北京、武汉等地医院均在临床中，我们需要观察它在确诊病人身上的治疗效果进行药效的评估。
The company admits that chloroquine phosphate is still in clinical trials as a treatment for the new crown virus. Hospitals in Beijing, Wuhan and elsewhere are in clinical trials, and we need to observe its efficacy in evaluating the effectiveness of treatment on patients.
临床研究促进公益基金秘书长李树婷告诉《财经》记者，现在之所以可以使用阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹这两种药物，是基于迫切的临床需求，“我们面对的是全新的病毒，没有针对这个病毒的上市药”。
Li Shuting, secretary-general of the Foundation for Clinical Research Promotion, told Caijing that the use of the two drugs, Abidor and chloroquine phosphate, is now possible because of pressing clinical needs. "We are dealing with a whole new virus, there is no marketed drug for the virus," Li Shuting, general secretary of the Foundation for Clinical Research Promotion, told Caijing.
此时如果有具有相同机理或体外实验证明有效的药物，是可以在人体试用的，“符合伦理要求”。
At this point in time, if there is the same mechanism or proven effective in vitro trials of drugs can be tried in humans, "ethical requirements."
国际临床试验网站Clinical Trials.gov上，目前已有几个阿比多尔应对新冠肺炎的临床研究，有的尚未开始招募患者，有的正在招募；磷酸氯喹相关研究尚无备案显示。
On the international clinical trial site, Clinical Trials.gov, there are several clinical studies of Abidol responding to new crown pneumonia, some of which have not yet begun to recruit patients or are in the process of being recruited; research related to chloroquine phosphate has not been documented.
对药企来说，药物的临床试验耗时、耗力，成本也高，而疫情则是有周期的。
For pharmaceutical companies, clinical trials of drugs are time-consuming, labor-intensive, and costly, and epidemics are cyclical.
若临床试验完成时疫情已过，是否仍有意义在当下从事临床试验？李树婷告诉《财经》记者，即使试验结束时疫情已经结束，但这个结果对我们认识这类的药物有重要意义，如果今后再次发生病毒引起的疫情，人类就有了对付它们的有效办法。
If clinical trials are over, will it still make sense to conduct clinical trials now? Li Shuting told Caijing that even after the trials are over, the results are important for our understanding of these drugs, and if future outbreaks of the virus occur, mankind has an effective way to deal with them.
李树婷说，在埃博拉新药试验的时候，就使用了最快的方式，跳过常规的一期、二期、三期试验，而是直接用在患者身上。
When testing new Ebola drugs, Li said, the fastest way was to skip the regular first, second and third trials and use them directly on patients.
“这从伦理方面和新药临床试验的法规方面都给树立了很好的先例。
"This sets a good precedent in terms of ethics and regulation of clinical trials of new drugs.
”回顾以往，李树婷说，我们在SARS结束后继续进行研究的项目就很少，17年后病毒再次来袭的时候，我们又处于被动，所以，目前的情况既是探索新药与老药治疗患者的最好时机，也是为人类的明天做好准备。
Looking back, Li said there were few projects we would continue to study after SARS was over, and we were passive 17 years later when the virus struck again, so this is the best time to explore both new and old drugs to treat patients and to prepare for the future.
本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎诊疗方案第六版：“老药”阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹入选。
The sixth edition of New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program: "Old Medicine" Abidor, chloroquine phosphate were selected.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎诊疗方案第六版：“老药”阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹入选";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
var msg_desc = "阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹成为治疗新冠肺炎的试用药物，仍需要临床试验继续验证。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Abidol, chloroquine phosphate, a trial drug used to treat pneumonia, still needs to be tested in clinical trials.
为防止以后再落被动局面，即便疫情结束，相关药物临床试验也应继续";。
To prevent a relapse later, clinical trials of the drug should continue at & quot; even if the epidemic ends.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
