疫情对全球供应链的冲击有多大？。
How much impact does the epidemic have on global supply chains?
徐奇渊。
Xu Qiyuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情对全球供应链的影响触及哪一阶段，及其冲击程度，将取决于疫情本身的演变及持续时间。
The stage at which the epidemic affects global supply chains, and the extent of its impact, will depend on the evolution and duration of the epidemic itself.
如果疫情对全球供应链冲击推演到第四阶段，那么疫情将升级为严重冲击全球经济的灰犀牛文|徐奇渊世界银行的世界发展指数（WDI）显示，2003年，中国工业增加值在全球占比仅为6.8%，2017年上升至23.9%。
If the epidemic spreads to phase four of the global supply-chain shock, it could escalate into a gray rhino that has hit the global economy hard. According to the World Development Index (WDI) of the World Bank, China's industrial value added was only 6.8% globally in 2003, rising to 23.9% in 2017.
截至到2018年，中国已成为120多个国家的最大贸易伙伴。
By 2018, China had become the largest trading partner for more than 120 countries.
如今，中国在全球供应链中的地位显著。
Today, China has a prominent place in global supply chains.
中国对全球经济的影响，实际上远超自身体量。
China's influence on the global economy is actually far greater than its size.
更加重要的是，这一影响力还体现在中国居于全球供应链的核心节点上。
More importantly, this influence is also reflected in the fact that China is at the core of global supply chains.
过去十多年，中国已经成为全球供应链网络的中心，中间品进出口占到相当高的比重。
Over the past decade or so, China has become the hub of the global supply chain network, with imports and exports of intermediates accounting for a significant proportion.
根据世界银行和联合国贸发会议共同发布的“世界综合贸易解决方案”（WITS）数据库，观察全球近200个经济体从中国进口的商品，中间品在全部进口中的占比平均达到21.7%（中位数）。
According to the World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) database, published jointly by the World Bank and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), goods imported from China by nearly 200 economies worldwide account for an average of 21.7 per cent (median) of total imports.
疫情对全球供应链的冲击不容忽视与最终产品不同，其他经济体从中国进口中间品，是为了投入到生产过程。
The impact of the epidemic on global supply chains cannot be ignored in contrast to final products, where other economies import intermediates from China in order to feed into the production process.
任何中间品贸易的中断，都有可能影响到整个生产过程的连续性，从而造成更大的损失，其影响远超中间品贸易本身的减少。
Any disruption of trade in intermediates is likely to affect the continuity of the entire production process, resulting in greater losses than the reduction in trade in intermediates per se.
根据牛津经济研究院(Oxford Economics)预测，疫情冲击将导致今年全球经济增长减少0.2%，年增速跌至2.3%，这将是2008年金融危机以来的最低增速。
According to Oxford Economics, the impact of the epidemic will reduce global economic growth by 0.2 per cent this year to 2.3 per cent a year, the slowest rate since the 2008 financial crisis.
不过从结果来看，这一预测主要还是考虑中国经济放缓本身对全球带来的影响。
But in terms of the results, the forecast largely takes into account the global impact of the Chinese slowdown itself.
如果考虑疫情对全球供应链的冲击，则全球经济将面临更加严峻的考验。
The global economy faces an even tougher test if the impact of the epidemic on global supply chains is taken into account.
事实上，这种挑战已经对中国国内的供应链网络产生了冲击。
Indeed, this challenge has already had an impact on China's domestic supply-chain network.
经济全球化、供应链的全球化，使得一个地区的疫情冲击也更加具有放大性的全球影响。
Economic globalization and globalization of supply chain make the epidemic impact of a region more magnifying global impact.
全球的经济决策者都应该注意到这一点，并且加强密切的政策合作，以共同应对疫情对全球供应链带来的挑战。
Global economic policymakers should heed this, and strengthen close policy cooperation to address the challenges that the epidemic poses to global supply chains.
推演疫情对全球供应链冲击的四个阶段第一阶段，疫情对中国国内的供应链网络产生影响。
In the first stage of four stages of the epidemic's impact on global supply chains, the epidemic has an impact on China's domestic supply chain network.
疫情冲击使国内生产秩序受到一定程度的破坏。
The epidemic impacts the domestic order of production to a certain extent.
企业复工时间推迟、外地返工人员面临隔离期、复产工人缺乏口罩等防护条件，物流运力也受到了显著影响。
Logistics capacity has also been significantly affected by delays in the resumption of work by enterprises, isolation periods faced by expatriate reworkers and the lack of face masks for rehabilitated workers.
这些对制造业的用工、库存、生产、运输、订单等都产生了冲击，尤其在湖北疫区，影响更甚。
These have had an impact on employment, inventory, production, transportation, orders and so on in the manufacturing industry, especially in Hubei epidemic areas, and even more so.
第二阶段，疫情影响到中国向其他国家出口中间产品，导致其他国家生产过程出现中断。
In the second phase, the outbreak affected China's exports of intermediate products to other countries, leading to disruptions in other countries' production processes.
但这一阶段，由于我国企业和国外企业的产成品库存、以及运输时间的缓冲，暂时对我国从其他国家的进口不产生影响。
But at this stage, due to the stock of finished products of Chinese and foreign enterprises, as well as the buffer of transportation time, there is no temporary impact on China's imports from other countries.
第三阶段，全球供应链中断的效果反馈，通过进口渠道反射影响到我国。
The third stage, global supply chain disruption effect feedback, through the import channel reflection affected our country.
由于国外企业的生产过程中断，及其产成品库存消化完毕，因此我国的中间品、最终品进口也将面临暂停风险。
As the production process of foreign enterprises is interrupted and the finished product inventory is digested, the import of intermediate and final products will be put at risk of suspension.
第四阶段，在最严重的情况下，供应链中断将向其他没有中国企业直接参与的全球供应链扩展。
In the fourth stage, in the worst case, supply-chain disruptions would spread to other global supply chains without the direct involvement of Chinese firms.
中国在全球供应链中的地位至关重要，中短期内其他国家的企业无法完全替代中国的地位，同时由于引致其他外国企业供应链出现断档，因此全球供应链的中断完全可能蔓延到与中国无直接关系的生产网络。
China's position in global supply chains is so important that firms from other countries cannot fully replace China in the short to medium term, and disruption of global supply chains may well spill over to production networks that have no direct relationship with China, owing to disruptions in other foreign supply chains.
这时候全球经济的不确定性将大幅上升。
That comes at a time when global economic uncertainty will soar.
疫情对全球供应链的影响能够触及哪一个阶段，及其冲击程度，将取决于疫情本身的演变及其持续时间。
The stage at which the epidemic's impact on global supply chains can be reached, and the extent of its impact, will depend on the evolution of the epidemic itself and its duration.
如果疫情对全球供应链的冲击推演到第四阶段，那么疫情将进一步升级成为严重冲击全球经济的灰犀牛。
If the epidemic's impact on global supply chains were to spill over into its fourth phase, it could escalate further into a grey rhinoceros that would devastate the global economy.
从这个角度来看，全球协力应对疫情，对于维系全球供应链的稳定具有十分重要的意义。
From this perspective, a coordinated global response to the epidemic is very important for maintaining the stability of global supply chains.
而中国对疫情的全力防控，以及在防控疫情的前提下统筹进行复工，对于全球供应链稳定也具有很大的积极意义。
And China's comprehensive prevention and control of the epidemic, as well as the prevention and control of the disease under the premise of a coordinated resumption of work, the global supply chain stability is also of great positive significance.
当前疫情对全球供应链的冲击正处于第二阶段目前疫情已经对春节后的出口交货产生了影响。
The current outbreak of global supply chain impact is in the second phase of the current epidemic has had an impact on post-Spring Festival export delivery.
观察中国出口集装箱运价指数（CCFI），对比2020年春节后、春节前的变化可以发现：出口运价指数从964.95下降至936.65，降幅为-2.93%。
By looking at the China Export Container Freight Index (CCFI) and comparing the changes after the 2020 Spring Festival and before the Spring Festival, we can see that the export freight rate dropped from 964.95 to 936.65, a decrease of -2.93%.
回顾2008年至2019年的12年间，春节后出口运价指数出现上升的有9年，出现下降的仅有3年，跌幅最大是2016年春节后的-1.26%。
Looking back at the 12-year period from 2008 to 2019, the post-Spring Festival export rate index rose for nine years, with only three years of decline, with the largest decline being -1.26 per cent after the Spring Festival in 2016.
可见，2020年春节后出口运价指数的降幅，已经明显超出了正常历史区间。
It can be seen that after the 2020 Spring Festival export rate index fell, has clearly exceeded the normal historical range.
尤其是2020年的出口运价指数变化，已经考虑到了推迟复工因素（延长的休息日期间不再发布运价指数），因此2020年数据和其他年份具有可比性。
In particular, the change in the export tariff index for 2020 has taken into account the deferment of the resumption of work (the extended rest period no longer issues a tariff index), so that the 2020 data are comparable to other years.
另外，从运价指数来看，疫情对进口渠道的影响目前还不明显。
In addition, the impact of the epidemic on import channels is not yet evident in terms of freight rates.
同样观察中国进口集装箱运价指数（CICFI）的变化，可以发现：2020年春节前后，该指数变化几乎为0。
Similarly, looking at the evolution of China's Import Container Freight Index (CICFI), one can see that around 2020, around the Spring Festival, the index changed by almost zero.
在仅有的近5年数据中，有2年的变化超过-2%，有3年接近0。
In two of the only five years for which data are available, the change was more than -2 per cent, and in three years it was close to zero.
这表明，目前进口运价指数尚在正常的历史区间，疫情对于中国进口的冲击不明显。
This shows that the current import rate index is still in the normal historical range, the impact of the epidemic on China's imports is not obvious.
集装箱的主要运输内容是工业制成品，当前疫情冲击反映到运价指数上，已经对中国的出口制成品产生了影响，但是对进口制成品的影响目前还不明显。
The bulk of container traffic consists of manufactured goods, and the current epidemic impact, reflected in the freight rate index, has had an impact on manufactured exports from China, but the impact on imports of manufactured goods is not yet evident.
可见，疫情对全球供应链的影响已经进入到了第二阶段。
Thus, the impact of the epidemic on global supply chains has entered its second phase.
哪些国家的供应链受到了更大冲击？如前所述，中国出口集装箱运价指数（CCFI）指数总体上出现了显著下降，超出了春节后变化的正常历史区间。
As mentioned earlier, China's Container Freight Index for Exports (CCFI) has generally declined significantly, surpassing the normal range of post-Spring Festival changes.
在总体指数下降的情况下，各分区航线指数的变化不尽一致。
In the case of the decline in the overall index, the variation of the route index varies from one subregion to another.
其中，南非航线、东西非航线甚至出现了较大幅度的上升。
Among them, the route of South Africa, east and west non-route even appeared a relatively large rise.
另外，美东、美西航线各有涨跌，所受影响暂时不大，但后续影响还有待观察。
In addition, the U. S. East, the United States and West routes each rise and fall, the impact of temporary small, but the follow-up impact remains to be seen.
从2月中旬公布的现有运价指数来看，以下航线的出口运价指数已经受到了较大冲击，具体有：日本航线（2.5%）、欧洲航线（-3.6%）、南美航线（-5.4%）、波斯湾红海航线（-6.0%），韩国航线（-8.5%）、地中海航线（-10.1%）。
According to the existing freight index published in mid-February, the export freight index for the following routes has already been significantly impacted: Japan (2.5 per cent), Europe (-3.6 per cent), South America (-5.4 per cent), the Persian Gulf Red Sea (-6.0 per cent), Korea (-8.5 per cent) and the Mediterranean route (-10.1 per cent).
数据来源：WIND，作者计算。
Source: WIND, author calculations.
其中，向南欧和北非地区提供出口品的地中海航线受到冲击最大。
Of these, Mediterranean routes serving exports to southern Europe and North Africa were the hardest hit.
根据彭博社2月14日的报导，南欧塞尔维亚的供应链已经受到冲击。
Southern Serbia's supply chains have been hit, Bloomberg reported Feb. 14.
由于来自中国的音响系统和其它电子零件短缺，菲亚特-克莱斯勒汽车在塞尔维亚的一个组装厂将停止运营。
A Fiat-Chrysler assembly plant in Serbia will cease operation because of a shortage of sound systems and other electronic components from China.
这是欧洲首个受新型冠状病毒疫情影响而停产的工厂。
It is the first European plant to be shut down by a new coronavirus outbreak.
此外，波斯湾红海航线、南美航线也受到了较大冲击，但是由于这些国家的体量较小，所受关注不多。
In addition, the Red Sea route in the Persian Gulf and the route to South America were also hit hard, but they received less attention because of their smaller size.
另一方面，韩国、欧洲、日本这些地区的经济体量较大，而且从运价指数来看，来自中国的产品供应也受到较大冲击，这些国家的供应链停顿更加受到广泛关注。
On the other hand, the economies of South Korea, Europe and Japan are relatively large, and the supply of products from China has been hit harder by the freight index, and supply chain disruptions in these countries have received more extensive attention.
同时，武汉也是中国汽车制造业的重镇，武汉本身以及国内汽车供应链受到的冲击，也开始蔓延到韩国、日本。
At the same time, Wuhan is also a major Chinese auto manufacturing town, Wuhan itself as well as the impact of the domestic automobile supply chain, also began to spread to South Korea, Japan.
2月初，由于来自中国的零部件短缺，韩国现代汽车在国内的生产线已经大面积停产。
In early February, Hyundai's domestic production line was largely shut down because of a shortage of spare parts from China.
同样的原因，日产汽车在国内的生产线也已经在2月中旬暂停了部分生产线。
For the same reason, Nissan's domestic production line was suspended in mid-February.
通用汽车的韩国工厂的生产线，也正在面临停产的考验。
Production lines at GM's South Korean plant are also facing a shutdown test.
汽车行业的其他跨国公司正在密切关注自己的库存和全球供应链的暂时冲击。
Other multinationals in the auto industry are watching their inventories and temporary shocks to global supply chains.
中国面临的产业外移压力有多大？疫情对中国产业的影响分为三个层面。
The impact of the epidemic on Chinese industry is divided into three levels.
其一，在乐观情形下，如果疫情只是较为短期的冲击，其对产业外移影响较少。
First, in an optimistic scenario, if the epidemic is a relatively short-term shock, it will have less impact on industrial migration.
尤其对机械、电子等优势产业基本没有影响。
In particular, machinery, electronics and other superior industries have little impact.
重新配置全球供应链非常复杂，在短期内难以实现。
Reconfiguring global supply chains is complex and difficult to achieve in the short term.
如果只是短期冲击，各国企业对全球布局的战略选择将非常谨慎。
If only a short-term shock, companies around the world will be very cautious in their strategic choice of global distribution.
其二，如果疫情对生产的影响持续到3月甚至4月，可能对出口订单产生影响。
Second, if the impact of the outbreak on production continues into March or even April, it could have an impact on export orders.
尤其对于季节性较强的行业，其新增订单将明显流失，并影响其2季度、甚至3季度的出口生产。
Especially for the seasonal strong industry, its new orders will be obvious loss, and affect its second quarter, or even the third quarter of export production.
我们注意到，每年3、4月都是PMI出口订单下单的高峰期。
We note that March and April are the peak periods for export orders placed by PMI.
其中，又以3月订单指数最高。
Among them, with the highest order index in March.
这两个月的订单表现，将决定后续多个月的出口金额。
These two months of order performance will determine the amount to be exported over the next several months.
目前，3月初华东进出口商品交易会已经延期，4月的广交会能否正常举行将视疫情发展而定。
At present, the East China Import and Export Fair has been postponed in early March. Whether the Fair can be held normally in April will depend on the development of the epidemic.
依赖于武汉工厂生产的外国企业正在考虑替代的供应商，即使替代方案成本可能更高。
Foreign companies that rely on Wuhan factories are considering alternative suppliers, even though the alternative may be more costly.
美国咨询公司蓝丝（Blue Silk）公开建议企业应该立即改变供应链，建立一个不包括中国的替代策略。
Blue Silk, the US consultancy, openly suggests that companies should immediately change their supply chains to create an alternative strategy that does not include China.
其三，在极端情况下，如果疫情对生产的影响持续到4月甚至6月，则将会对部分产业的供应链产生实质性破坏，并加速产业外移。
Third, in extreme cases, if the impact of the epidemic on production continues into April or even June, it will cause substantial disruption to supply chains in some industries and accelerate industrial migration.
尤其对于玩具产业、服装等供应链较短、对配套要求不高的产业。
Especially for the toy industry, clothing and other short supply chains, the supporting requirements of the industry.
在过去两年中美贸易冲突之间，有些企业已经将生产转移到了东南亚一些国家。
In the past two years, some companies have shifted production to Southeast Asian countries in the midst of a trade conflict with the US.
叠加贸易战余波，如果疫情对生产的影响持续时间较长，则跨国公司将有可能考虑进一步多元化其全球供应链。
Overlay the fallout from the trade war, and if the impact of the epidemic on production is long lasting, TNCs will be likely to consider further diversifying their global supply chains.
总体上看，目前疫情对全球供应链的影响仍处于第二阶段的初期，即：中国向其他经济体提供的零部件中间品下降，其影响已经初步扩展到韩国、日本、南欧，并且有可能进一步向其他欧洲国家，以及美国扩展。
Overall, the impact of the current epidemic on global supply chains is still in the early stages of the second phase, when the effects of the decline in China's supply of spare parts intermediates to other economies have initially spread to South Korea, Japan, southern Europe and possibly further to other European countries, as well as to the United States.
按目前的发展来看，疫情可能对3月的一部分出口订单产生影响，并影响到后续出口。
Based on current developments, the outbreak is likely to have an impact on some export orders in March and on subsequent exports.
同时，产业转移的风险仍然存在，但总体上风险较为可控。
At the same time, the risk of industry transfer still exists, but the overall risk is more controllable.
由于疫情本身仍有一定的不确定性，而且我国企业复工也遇到了各种各样的现实问题，因此后续影响仍待观察。
Due to the uncertainty of the epidemic itself and the fact that Chinese enterprises have encountered various practical problems, it remains to be seen what the follow-up impact will be.
但有一点已经非常明确：这已经不是一个各扫门前雪的时代了。
But one thing is clear: this is no longer a time for sweeping snow.
（作者为中国社会科学院世界经济与政治研究所研究员，CF40研究部主任；编辑：王延春）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a researcher at the Institute of World Economics and Political Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and director of research at CF40). Pictures show Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情对全球供应链的冲击有多大？。
How much impact does the epidemic have on global supply chains?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情对全球供应链的冲击有多大？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How much has the epidemic hit global supply chains?;
var msg_desc = "疫情对全球供应链的影响触及哪一阶段，及其冲击程度，将取决于疫情本身的演变及持续时间。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the stage at which an outbreak affects global supply chains, and the extent of its impact, will depend on the evolution and duration of the outbreak itself.
如果疫情对全球供应链冲击推演到第四阶段，那么疫情将升级为严重冲击全球经济的灰犀牛";。
If the epidemic spreads to phase four of its impact on global supply chains, it could escalate to Rhino & quot;, which has hit the global economy hard.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
