被疫情捧红的“特效药”。
By the epidemic hot "special medicine."
马肃平 崔慧莹。
Ma Su PingCui Ying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲新冠肺炎疫情之下，线上线下药店的双黄连几乎被一扫而光。
Under the new crown pneumonia, the online line of pharmacies Shuang Huanglian was almost wiped out.
（资料图/图）全文共3215字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3215 words and takes about 7 minutes to read.
“双黄连可抑制新型冠状病毒”消息一出，线上线下药店的双黄连几乎被一扫而光，堪比SARS时的板蓝根。
"Shuanghuanglian can inhibit the new coronavirus" news, online pharmacies were almost wiped out, like the SARS when the Banlangen.
连给牲畜吃的双黄连都被抢购到下线，一位淘宝卖家幸福地表示，从没想过会有这么多人来支持他的兽药生意。
Even for livestock to eat Shuanghuanglian are snapped up to the line, a Taobao seller happily said, never thought there would be so many people to support his veterinary business.
双黄连、藿香正气口服液、安宫牛黄丸、槟榔……新冠肺炎“解药”似乎遍地都是，不过世界卫生组织多次强调，到目前为止，还没有专门用于预防和治疗新型冠状病毒的药物，“特定的治疗方法正在研究中，并将通过临床试验进行测试”。
Shuang Huanglian, Patchouli Zhengqi oral liquid, Angong Niuhuangwan, Penang... The "antidote" for pneumonia seems to be everywhere, but the World Health Organization has repeatedly stressed that so far there are no drugs specifically designed to prevent and treat the coronavirus, and that "specific treatments are being studied and tested through clinical trials."
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平 崔慧莹责任编辑 | 曹海东口罩卖完了，酒精售罄了，一夜之间，双黄连口服液也脱销了。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
2月1日清早，一觉醒来，很多人发现朋友圈被双黄连口服液刷了屏。
On the morning of February 1, many people woke up to find their circle of friends painted with Shuanghuanglian oral liquid.
一则“双黄连可抑制新型冠状病毒”的报道直接登顶热搜，报道还称，双黄连口服液已在上海公共卫生临床中心、华中科技大学附属同济医院开展临床研究。
A report on "Shuanghuanglian can inhibit the new coronavirus" reported that Shuang Huanglian oral liquid has been in the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, Huazhong University of Science and Technology affiliated Tongji Hospital to conduct clinical research.
消息一出，线上线下药店的双黄连几乎被一扫而光，堪比SARS时的板蓝根。
News, online online drugstore Shuanghuang almost wiped out, like the SARS when the Banlangen.
连给牲畜吃的双黄连都被抢购到下线，一位淘宝卖家幸福地表示，从没想过会有这么多人来支持他的兽药生意。
Even for livestock to eat Shuanghuanglian are snapped up to the line, a Taobao seller happily said, never thought there would be so many people to support his veterinary business.
很快，这则新闻迎来反转。
Soon, the news reverses.
有早前发声的媒体开始提醒：“抑制”不等于“预防和治疗”，普通人请勿自行服用；丁香园亦表示，双黄连的不良反应在药品中名列前茅，吃了还可能有害。
Earlier media began to warn that "inhibition" is not the same as "prevention and treatment," ordinary people do not take it themselves; the clove orchard also said that Shuang Huanglian's adverse reactions are among the highest in medicine and may be harmful if eaten.
双黄连、藿香正气口服液、安宫牛黄丸……新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情之下，“解药”似乎遍地都是，“初步发现”的字眼已经阻挡不了民众的抢购热潮。
Shuang Huanglian, Patchouli Zhengqi oral liquid, Angong Niu Huangwan... The new coronavirus infection of pneumonia, "antidote" seems to be everywhere, the word "preliminary discovery" has not stopped the rush of people to buy.
不过，世界卫生组织多次强调，到目前为止，还没有专门用于预防和治疗新型冠状病毒的药物，“特定的治疗方法正在研究中，并将通过临床试验进行测试”。
However, the World Health Organization has repeatedly stressed that so far there are no drugs specifically designed to prevent and treat the coronavirus and that "specific treatments are being studied and will be tested through clinical trials."
1一夜推进细胞实验“双黄连口服液可抑制新型冠状病毒”是中科院上海药物所和武汉病毒所的联合研究成果。
One Night Propulsion Cell Experiment "Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid Suppresses New Coronavirus" is a joint research achievement of the Shanghai Medicine Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Wuhan Virus Institute.
根据新闻通稿的描述，上海药物所启动了由蒋华良院士牵头的抗“新冠肺炎”药物研究应急攻关团队，在前期SARS相关研究和药物发现成果的基础上，聚焦针对该病毒的治疗候选新药筛选、评价和老药新用研究。
As described in the press release, the Shanghai Medicines Institute launched the Emergency Response Team for Drug Research against New Crown Pneumonia, led by Academician Jiang Hua-liang, focusing on screening, evaluation and new use of new drug candidates for the virus based on previous SARS-related research and drug discovery results.
“双黄连口服液由金银花、黄芩、连翘三味中药组成。
"Shuanghuanglian oral liquid by honeysuckle, baicalin, forsythia three-flavor Chinese medicine composition.
中医认为，这三味中药具有清热解毒、表里双清的作用。
Traditional Chinese medicine thinks, this three flavor Chinese medicine has clear heat detoxification, double clear effect in the table.
现代医学研究认为，双黄连口服液具有广谱抗病毒、抑菌、提高机体免疫功能的作用，是目前有效的广谱抗病毒药物之一。
Modern medical research shows that Shuanghuanglian oral liquid has broad-spectrum anti-virus, bacteriostatic and immune function enhancement function, is one of the effective broad-spectrum antiviral drugs.
”根据1月30日的《中国科学院专报信息》，这其实只是一个细胞实验，距离真正的临床应用还相当遥远。
"According to the January 30 edition of the Proceedings of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, this is really a cellular experiment, and the actual clinical application is still a long way off.
蹊跷的是，根据这份专报信息，细胞实验一夜之间（1月29日晚至30日凌晨）便大功告成，随后通过了伦理委员会审查，启动了临床试验。
Curiously, according to the special report, the cell experiment was successfully carried out overnight (from the night of 29 to the early morning of 30 January), followed by a review by an ethics committee and the initiation of clinical trials.
2020年2月1日上午，南方周末记者致电上海药物所，工作人员表示目前暂不接受媒体采访，“相关研究进展以官网公布为准”。
On the morning of February 1, 2020, Southern Weekend reporter called Shanghai Medicines Institute, the staff said that at present do not accept the media interview, "related research progress is subject to the announcement of official website."
“只做了病毒试验，需进一步做临床试验。
"Only the virus has been tested and further clinical trials are needed.
”中国科学院院士、中科院上海药物所所长蒋华良在微信中表示。
Jiang Hua-liang, academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and director of the Shanghai Institute of Medicine, said in a letter.
这份专报由中科院上海药物所和武汉病毒研究所联合署名，已由中科院科学传播局上报中办和国办。
The special report, jointly signed by the Shanghai Medicine Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Wuhan Institute of Virus, has been reported by the Bureau of Science and Communications of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
专报建议，从国家层面扩大双黄连口服液的临床试用，并立即联系相关企业稳妥做好药品生产和调配。
Special report recommends, expand Shuanghuanglian oral liquid clinical trial from the national level, and immediately contact relevant enterprises to do a good job in drug production and distribution.
“双黄连可抑制新型冠状病毒”的报道直接登顶热搜。
"Shuanghuanglian can inhibit the new coronavirus" the report ascends the top heat search directly.
（微博截图/图）事实上，无需国家号召，一夜爆火之前，药企早已复工生产。
In fact, without a state call, pharmaceutical companies were back to work long before the fire broke out overnight.
1月23日，哈药集团发文称，三精双黄连口服液被北京市中医药管理局正式纳入新型冠状病毒防治方案。
On January 23, the drug group sent a message that Sanjing Shuanghuanglian oral liquid by the Beijing Bureau of Chinese Medicine into the new-style coronavirus prevention and treatment program.
大年初二开始，哈药集团旗下的工厂就相继开工，生产三精双黄连口服液等药品。
From the beginning of New Year's Day, the factory under the company began to produce three-essence Shuanghuanglian oral liquid and other drugs.
复产当天，130万支双黄连口服液便供应市场。
On the day of resumption of production, 1.3 million Shuanghuanglian oral liquid was supplied to the market.
南方周末记者梳理发现，双黄连在过去的多次疫情中“屡立战功”。
Southern Weekend reporter combed found that Shuang Huanglian in the past several outbreaks of "repeated fighting success."
2003年的SARS、2009年的甲型H1N1流感以及中东呼吸症（MERS）和埃博拉出血热中，它都曾被列入专家指导意见或诊疗方案。
In 2003, SARS, H1N1 in 2009 and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Ebola haemorrhagic fever were included in expert guidance or diagnostic programmes.
不过，安全性和有效性未能验证，副作用倒是不少。
However, safety and efficacy have not been verified, and there are many side effects.
2013-2014年国家药品不良反应监测年度报告显示，双黄连合剂（口服液、颗粒、胶囊、片剂）在中成药口服制剂中的不良反应名列前茅。
The national annual report on adverse drug reaction monitoring for 2013-2014 shows that Shuangwanglian Mixture (oral liquid, granules, capsules, tablets) ranks high among the adverse reactions in the oral preparations of proprietary Chinese medicines.
2盲目抢购“解药”1月28日，中国果协槟榔分会在微信公众号上发文称，槟榔被列入国家卫健委新型冠状病毒肺炎初期、中期诊疗方案的推荐处方中。
Betel nut is included in the recommended prescription for early and mid-term treatment of the new coronavirus pneumonia by the National Health Council, the association's Penang branch said in a letter posted on the Weixin public on January 28.
一时间，“槟榔也能治肺炎”的说法引发调侃。
For a while, "areca also can cure pneumonia" the statement that causes mockery.
“鱼目混珠的东西多了，这种说法不可信！”中南大学湘雅医院口腔颌面外科教授翦新春感叹，他曾与槟榔作了几十年的斗争。
It is not credible to say that there are so many things in the eye! bentbine, professor of oral and maxillofacial surgery at Xiangya Hospital in South China University, lamented that he had fought areca for decades.
不过，他向南方周末记者解释，在国家卫健委推荐的中医治疗方案中，槟榔只是方子中的一味中药，这并无不可，“关键是要证明安全有效”。
However, he explained to Southern Weekend reporter that areca is only a traditional Chinese medicine in the prescription recommended by the National Fitness and Health Commission. "The key is to prove it is safe and effective."
国家卫健委和中医药管理局还将安宫牛黄丸，正式列入了诊疗方案（试行第三版）中。
The National Fitness and Health Commission and the Chinese Medicine Administration also officially included Niuhuangwan in the diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 3).
广誉远向红十字会捐赠了200万元的双天然安宫牛黄丸，用于武汉疫情的防治。
Fame far to the Red Cross donated 2 million yuan dual natural Angong Niuhuangwan, for the prevention and control of the epidemic in Wuhan.
在诊疗方案（试行第四版）中，还出现了藿香正气胶囊等一批中药制剂。
A batch of Chinese medicine preparations such as Patchouli Zhengqi Capsule also appeared in the treatment programme (trial version 4).
此前，中国工程院院士、中国中医科学院院长黄璐琦在接受媒体采访时曾表示，诊疗方案中推荐的中成药，均经过专家组充分讨论，符合此次“新冠肺炎”中医病机特点及证候特征，且均有扎实的临床和科研基础，安全性有保障，是呼吸类中成药的代表性品种。
Huang Liqi, academician of the Chinese Academy of Chinese Medicine, told the media that the Chinese patent medicine recommended in the diagnosis and treatment plan had been fully discussed by the expert group.
中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟院士在采访中建议没毛病不要乱吃药，“我们现在确实有几种药在用，但是要患者住院以后，在医生的指导下用药。
In an interview, Li Lanjuan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level group of experts from the National Fitness and Wellness Commission suggested in an interview that there was nothing wrong with taking pills.
”浙大一院中医科副主任医师李剑平在接受媒体时也表示，不建议大家盲目抢购双黄连口服液，盲目用药。
Li Jianping, deputy director of Chinese medicine at a Zhejiang University hospital, also said in the media that it was not recommended to rush blindly to buy Shuanghuanglian oral liquid, blind medication.
“如果你没有感染病毒，身体处于阴阳平衡的状态下，却盲目吃清热药物，苦寒伤胃，反而可能打破人体平衡，带来不必要的副作用。
"If you are not infected with the virus, the body is in a state of yin and yang balance, but blindly eat Qingre medicine, bitter cold hurt the stomach, but may break the balance of the body, bring unnecessary side effects.
双黄连口服液最好在中医师的指导下使用。
Shuanghuanglian oral liquid is best used under the guidance of a Chinese doctor.
”南方周末记者观察到，在北京、河北等地，连夜冒着严寒去药店抢购双黄连口服液的市民排起了长龙，仿佛忘记了避免人群聚集，以防交叉感染的忠告。
Southern Weekend reporter observed that residents in Beijing, Hebei and other places who braved the cold to snap up Shuanghuang oral liquid at pharmacies overnight lined up as if forgetting the advice to avoid crowds gathering to prevent cross-infection.
据澎湃新闻报道，在武汉市江岸区一家药店，双黄连口服液售价一夜之间已从25元一盒涨到35元一盒，且每人限购五盒。
The price of Shuang Huanglian's oral liquid rose overnight from 25 yuan a box to 35 yuan a box at a drugstore in the Jiangan district of Wuhan city, according to Pai Pai news reports.
3抗艾药：“试用并不等于推荐”疫情之下，一种抗艾滋病药物也突然走红。
Antiretroviral drugs: "Trial is not recommended" under the epidemic, an anti-AIDS drug has suddenly become popular.
1月23日，被确诊感染的北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发公开表示，一种名为“克力芝”的抗艾药物对他个人具有明显的治疗效果。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1 who was diagnosed with the infection, said on January 23 that an anti-HIV drug called Kaletra had a significant individual therapeutic effect.
克力芝一度登上了微博热搜榜，代购的库存现货全部卖光，甚至有感染者不惜以4000元/盒的高价购入。
Kaletra once boarded the micro-blog search list, buying all of the stock spot sold out, even infected with the price of 4000 yuan / box bought.
“前一阵有不少感染者来找这款‘解药’，这几天少了。
"A few days ago, a lot of infected people came to find this' antidote ', these days less.
”男同防艾社会组织负责人肖冬告诉南方周末记者。
Xiao Dong, director of the men's and AIDS prevention social organization, told Southern Weekend reporter.
作为艾滋病的免费治疗药物，艾滋病感染者可从当地疾控部门或定点治疗医院免费领取，但“新冠肺炎”感染者想要使用，需要医生开具处方。
As a free treatment for AIDS, people living with AIDS can receive it free of charge from local disease control departments or designated treatment hospitals, but people with new crown pneumonia need a prescription from a doctor to use it.
有人从印度新德里直邮仿制版的克力芝，售价850元一盒，有人趁机加价，卖到四千元。
Someone sent a replica version of Kaletra from New Delhi, India. It cost 850 yuan a box.
国家卫健委的诊疗方案中，也多次提及克力芝的使用情况。
The use of Kaletra has also been mentioned several times in the diagnosis and treatment programmes of the National Board of Health.
但很多人没有注意到诊疗方案中的措辞——“目前尚无有效抗病毒药物”，克力芝只是作为一般治疗药物“试用”。
But many did not notice the wording of the protocol - "there are no effective antiviral drugs" - and that Kaletra was "tried" as a generic treatment.
“试用，并不等于推荐。
"Try it, it's not recommended.
”北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生告诉南方周末记者，SARS和MERS暴发时，克力芝都曾被尝试用于临床治疗，但疗效证据不明确。
Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Beijing Concorde Hospital, told Southern Weekend that Kaletra had been used in clinical trials when SARS and MERS broke out, but evidence of efficacy was unclear.
“尽管这一药物被加入了诊疗指南推荐，但具体使用时间和治疗效果还需要经临床进一步证实。
"Although the drug is recommended in the guidelines, further clinical confirmation of its use and efficacy is needed.
”1月9日开始，针对克力芝的治疗效果评价研究已经启动。
An evaluation study of the therapeutic effects of Kaletra has been initiated on January 9.
国家救治专家组成员、中日友好医院副院长曹彬提醒，疑似感染者擅自服用风险相当大，有人使用后出现了低血压、心率下降等严重的不良反应，临床处理很棘手。
Cao Bin, vice-dean of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital and a member of the national treatment expert group, warned that the risk of unauthorized use of infected persons is quite large, after the use of low blood pressure, heart rate decreased and other serious adverse reactions, clinical management is very difficult.
2月1日凌晨，另一个与药物有关的消息传来——顶级医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》报道了美国第一例“新冠肺炎”病人，住院第7天开始使用药物Remdesivir（瑞德西韦），次日退烧，咳嗽减轻，病情出现好转。
In the early morning hours of February 1, another drug-related news came - the New England Journal of Medicine, the top medical journal - reported the first case of New Crown Pneumonia in the United States, and began using the drug Remdesivir (Radesivir) on the seventh day of hospitalization.
不过，瑞德西韦尚未在任何国家获批上市，其安全性和有效性也未被证实。
However, Rhetsevier has not yet been approved for listing in any country, and its safety and effectiveness have not been proven.
2月1日，研发该药的美国药企吉利德科学全球首席医疗官MerdadParsey发布声明，这是治疗医生权衡风险获益比后的决定，属于“试验性药物”，已获当地监管机构的支持。
Merdad Parsey, chief global medical officer for Geely Science, the US pharmaceutical company that developed the drug, issued a statement on Feb. 1, a decision by therapists to weigh the risk-to-benefit ratio as a "pilot drug" supported by local regulators.
“吉利德正在配合中国的卫生部门开展试验，以确定使用瑞德西韦治疗新冠肺炎感染者是否安全和有效。
"Geely is working with Chinese health authorities to determine whether Rhetoric is safe and effective in treating people with pneumonia in the New Crown.
”吉利德科学在声明中称。
"Geely Science said in a statement.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题宅到发慌不如静心回望▼属于我们的2019▼。
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被疫情捧红的“特效药”。
By the epidemic hot "special medicine."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "被疫情捧红的“特效药”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
