李铁：应科学提高疫情防控效率，降低社会成本。
Li Tie: We should improve the efficiency and reduce the social cost of disease prevention and control scientifically.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 李铁。
Author Li Tie.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
减少行政方式作出各种不必要的防控要求，减少对企业运行的过度干预，强化科学管控和提高治理水平，提高城市防控效率，应该是城市管理者迫切需要考虑的问题文|李铁虽然防范新冠肺炎疫情已经取得了明显的效果。
Reducing the need for unnecessary controls, reducing excessive interference in business operations, strengthening scientific controls and improving governance, and improving the efficiency of urban prevention and control should be matters of urgent concern to city managers.
但是当前面临着企业和机构的复工，还有春节返城就业的高峰来临，如何提高防控效率，减少行政方式作出的各种不必要的防控要求，减少对企业运行的过度干预，强化科学管控和提高治理水平，应该是有关城市管理者迫切需要考虑的问题。
However, it is urgent to consider how to improve the efficiency of prevention and control, reduce unnecessary control and control requirements, reduce excessive interference in the operation of enterprises, strengthen scientific control and improve the level of governance.
疫情是治理能力的一次检验春节我在家里自我隔离的半个月中，每天都要填写孩子学校要求的报表，尽管费不了多少时间，但是每天填写确实是不必要的负担。
During the half month I spent in isolation at home, I filled out the forms my child needed for school every day. Although it didn't take much time, it was an unnecessary burden to fill in every day.
因为第一次的内容足以证明需要解答的问题。
Because the first content is enough to prove the questions to be answered.
之后只要针对有变化的内容，主动上报就会可以减少大多数人每天填表的麻烦。
After that, taking the initiative to report changes will make it easier for most people to fill in the forms every day.
这种程序的繁琐，可能制定这项措施的人并没有体会，但是每个执行的人都要付出相应的劳动，问题是有多大效果？再比如我每天去临近的公园散步，进门要填写手机号，登记家庭住址和姓名。
This procedure is cumbersome and may not be appreciated by those who may have developed it, but the problem is how effective it is for everyone involved to work accordingly. For example, I take a walk to the nearby park every day, filling in the phone number and registering my home address and name.
不清楚提出这个要求的部门最后是否会认真搜集信息，并从中发现什么疫情端倪？估计这些由保安人员或者游客自己填写的信息，可能最后就成为一个摆设，相关部门不可能有人来认真去检索这些信息，只是走走形式而已。
It is not clear whether the requesting department will actually collect the information and discover any evidence of it? It is estimated that the information provided by the security personnel or tourists themselves may turn out to be a device and that the information cannot be retrieved seriously by the authorities, but in a formalistic manner.
2月10日是很多单位第一天的上班时间，根据一些城市政府的要求，进入社区和单位都要严格登记制度，填写相关信息。
February 10 is the first day of work in many organizations, according to the requirements of some city governments, enter the community and units are strict registration system, fill in the relevant information.
制定政策的人是否想到，一个几千人的写字楼，如果大家都要填写，会需要排多长的队，需要花多少时间？这些信息与疫情的传播有什么关系？如果有人填了虚假信息，谁能够去核实？发生疫情期间，大量的商店和饭店都处于歇业状态，幸好我们有快递和外卖来解决问题。
Do policy makers think that if everyone had to fill out a thousand office buildings, how long would it take to queue and how long would it take? What does this information have to do with the spread of the epidemic? If someone fills out false information, who can verify it? During the outbreak, a large number of shops and restaurants are out of business.
但是快递员和外卖员不让进入社区，要求居民到社区入口自己去提取。
But couriers and take-out workers are not allowed into the community and residents are required to collect it at the entrance to the community.
带来的不方便不说，还是存在着物品交接过程中的感染可能，一样存在着所谓的风险。
Not to mention the inconvenience, or there is a transfer of goods in the process of infection, there is the same so-called risk.
还有的城市政府要求社区物业关闭非住宅电梯，理由是防止通过电梯出现疫情传播，等等。
Other city governments have ordered community properties to close non-residential elevators on the grounds of preventing the spread of the disease through elevators, and so on.
一些城市政府对企业也提出了要求，例如上海人社局要求，防疫停工期间，企业要给员工发放双份工资。
Some city governments have also imposed requirements on businesses, such as the Shanghai municipal bureau, which requires companies to pay employees double wages during cordon sanitaire.
北京市有关部门提出，学校延期开学，企业应安排员工带薪不上班在家照顾孩子等等。
Beijing authorities have said schools should be postponed and companies should arrange for employees to stay at home with pay to look after their children.
其实这些政策是从好心出发，但是却违背了企业的运行规律。
In fact, these policies are well-intentioned, but contrary to the rules of operation of the enterprise.
政策的制定者是否想到，企业也面临着停工停业、甚至破产的雪上加霜局面，政府的类似要求会加重企业们的负担。
Are policymakers thinking that companies are also facing a shutdown, or even bankruptcy, and that similar government demands will add to the burden on businesses.
如果企业需要安排员工回家照顾孩子，同时发放工资。
If the company needs to arrange for employees to come home to care for their children, pay wages.
那每年寒暑假期的时候，是否也需要员工带薪回家陪孩子度过假期呢？虽然处于防疫的关键时期，但是政府的决策不仅应该考虑到当下的需要，还要考虑到未来的发展，考虑到制定政策的有效性，也要考虑是否以人为本等。
But in a crucial period of immunization, government decisions should take into account not only the needs of the present, but also future developments, the effectiveness of policy-making, and the need to put people first.
更重要的是如何理解科学地防控和治理，这对于正力图走向现代化的城市政府，这次疫情既是考验又是一次全面的检验。
More importantly, how to understand scientific control and management, which is trying to modernize the city government, this epidemic is both a test and a comprehensive test.
需要有清醒的分析和判断科学的防控和治理首先是要做出清醒的分析和判断。
It is necessary to have sober analysis and judge the prevention and control of science first to make sober analysis and judgment.
即使现在是节后返城高峰期，对于人口流入城市，特别是外来人口占比重较大的城市，似乎感到了压力。
Even now, at the peak of the post-urban return season, there seems to be pressure on urban migration, especially in cities with a high proportion of migrants.
但也要看到在各地已经采取了极为严厉的防控措施来迎接返城高峰。
But also to see that in various places has taken extremely severe control measures to meet the peak of urban return.
从疫情严重地区出来的人几乎已经在各地得到全面控制，疫区外出就业的人口基本被封闭在本地，这与春节前大量的疫情严重地区人口外流有着本质差别。
Almost all the people coming out of the worst affected areas have been under full control, and the people who work outside the affected areas are basically confined to their localities.
此外，各地对非疫情严重地区人口也有严格管控，对于那些与高危人群有过接触的人，已经进行过非常仔细地筛查。
In addition, populations in non-endemic areas are strictly controlled, and those who come into contact with high-risk groups have been screened very carefully.
各非严重疫情地区的人口在防疫全面开始的时候，都进行了自我隔离或是封闭措施。
The populations of the non-seriously affected areas were either isolated or sealed off at the beginning of the epidemic.
因此从防控安全角度来说，已经大幅度提高。
As a result, there has been a significant increase in safety control.
同时，要相信各级地方政府、企业以及各类机构，以及外来就业人口，在抗疫全国总动员时，他们都从本地和本单位，或者家庭和自身的利益出发，进行了严密防范。
At the same time, local governments, enterprises and organizations of all kinds, as well as the foreign labour force, have taken strict precautions against the epidemic in the interests of the local authorities, their organizations, their families and themselves.
没有哪个企业愿意冒疫情传播的风险，掉以轻心会给企业带来严重后果，甚至毁灭之灾；没有哪个地方政府愿意冒疫情人口增加的风险，因为会因此担责；现在很少有家庭和个人不了解疫情形势，不为自己的健康担忧，一旦成为疫情传播者，不但身体受损，还会受到社会的指责，甚至承担法律责任。
No company is willing to take the risk of spreading the epidemic, with serious consequences or even destruction; no local government is willing to take the risk of an increase in the epidemic, for which it is responsible; very few families and individuals are unaware of the epidemic and do not worry about their health.
当然，也不排除有极端的案例，而对于这部分人，按照现在这种防控模式是难有效果的，需要通过更为科学的手段甚至是动用治安手段进行跟踪和监测。
There are, of course, extreme cases, for which the current control model is ineffective and needs to be followed up and monitored by more scientific means and even by means of policing.
可以说，在非疫情严重地区和人口流入的高峰地区，采取的防控措施应该是更具针对性和更为有效的方法，而不是沿续以往让全社会付出代价的总动员。
Arguably, prevention and control measures should be more targeted and effective in non-endemic areas and in peak areas of population inflow, rather than continuing the general mobilization that has cost society as a whole in the past.
而且要把责任和管理职责下放到单位、企业以及社区。
Responsibility and management should be devolved to organizations, enterprises and communities.
在这个时候，要更为相信企业和机构以及社区和个人，应该还权于各类机构和组织，而不是通过政府来实施各种低效而且不合理的强制性的防范措施。
At this time, there should be greater confidence in enterprises and institutions, as well as in communities and individuals, who should be empowered to implement inefficient and unreasonably coercive preventive measures through various institutions and organizations, rather than through Governments.
人社部已经下发了通知，特别要求各地不能强制企业发放员工工资，我想是充分考虑到企业的苦衷。
The Ministry of Human Services has issued a circular specifically requiring that companies not be forced to pay their employees. I think this is due to their grievances.
更重要的是站在尊重市场和企业的发展规律角度提出的重要举措，也纠正对一些城市政府的反市场做法。
Even more important are important initiatives from the perspective of respect for the laws of market and enterprise development, as well as the correction of anti-market practices against some urban governments.
但是在其他方面我们还是能够看到少数城市政府，不顾本地实际，采取的一些强制性停工和关停企业的做法，特别是盲目增加社会负担的做法。
But in other respects we can still see a few city governments, regardless of local realities, some of the forced stoppage and closure of enterprises, especially blind increase of the social burden.
一方面反映出对城市治理理解的差别，另一方面则是没能充分运用好科技的手段，导致方法和方式过于传统。
On the one hand, it reflects the difference in the understanding of urban governance, on the other hand, it is a failure to make full use of the means of science and technology.
要进行科学的防控和治理所谓的科学防控和治理，重点是在于如何运用互联网和大数据系统，对于流动人员进行合理检测。
Scientific control and management of the so-called scientific control and governance, the focus is on how to use the Internet and big data systems to carry out rational testing of mobile personnel.
各地区都建立了自己的大数据中心，但是信息源却远远滞后于社会的应用。
Each region has its own large data center, but the information source lags far behind the social application.
我曾在最近的一篇文章中提出，最有效的信息源在互联网和手机信令，可以准确地跟踪一个人或者一个地区、城市的人口在半年内的流动状况。
In a recent article, I argued that the most effective sources of information are the Internet and mobile phone signaling, which can accurately track the movement of people in a person, region, or city over a period of six months.
在面临着如此重大的防疫事件，有效利用大数据信息源而不是用层层上报等传统方式，可以减少大量的社会劳动，实现精准的对与疫情地区有关人员的追踪。
In the face of such a major epidemic, the effective use of big data sources rather than traditional methods such as hierarchical reporting, can reduce a great deal of social work and achieve accurate tracking of those involved in the epidemic area.
其实一些城市例如温州就采取了这种做法。
In fact, some cities such as Wenzhou have adopted this approach.
这种方法不仅仅可以从大范围的人口路径调查，得出全局的精准数据。
This method can not only from the large-scale population route survey, the global accurate data.
还可以对重点人群进行精准追踪。
Precise tracking of key populations is also possible.
科学地防控和治理，还是要建立在如何提高效率上，而不是盲目动员提供了，效果不大，还加重社会负担。
Scientific control and management should be based on how to improve efficiency, rather than blind mobilization to provide a small effect, but also increase the social burden.
在当前的防疫措施中，我们已经进行了严格的信息管控。
In the current epidemic prevention measures, we have carried out strict information control.
从社区到各个机构和单位，都对于在京人口进行了详尽的调查。
From the community to the institutions and units, people in Beijing have been thoroughly investigated.
随着人口返城规模大幅度增加，我们只是要掌握人口变动的数据即可。
As the number of people returning to urban areas increases dramatically, we simply need to have data on demographic changes.
可以利用互联网办公系统，要求各单位、各个企业和社区，通过互联网的方式掌握人口流动的信息。
Internet-based office systems can be used to require organizations, enterprises and communities to have access to information on population movements through the Internet.
重点是变动信息，而不是每天都要进行繁琐的登记。
The emphasis is on changing information rather than cumbersome registration on a daily basis.
这样会大大减少社会的负担。
This would greatly reduce the burden on society.
科学地防控治理，还要采取科学的医疗手段。
Scientific control and control, but also to adopt scientific medical means.
例如对有条件的单位和机构，可以安装体温检测仪。
For example, temperature detectors may be installed in units and institutions where conditions permit.
对于社区和一些不具备条件的经营场所，可以实行人工体温检测，会节省大量时间，避免排队和等待时间过长的心里烦扰。
For the community and some of the business premises do not have the conditions, artificial body temperature testing can be implemented, will save a lot of time, avoid queuing up and waiting too long mental disturbance.
如果担心企业复工会产生疫情传播的负面影响，则可以参照目前正在加紧开工生产防疫紧缺物资的企业，学习他们如何解决安全问题。
If there is a concern that the resumption of trade unions could have a negative impact on the spread of the epidemic, companies that are currently working intensively to produce supplies that are in short supply could learn how to solve their safety problems.
例如生产车间，食堂等公共空间，可采取哪些措施进行防范。
For example, the production workshops, canteens and other public spaces, what measures can be taken to prevent.
科学防控和治理，还是要以人民为中心，兼顾近期和长远。
Scientific control and governance should remain people-centred, taking into account the short and long term.
近期以严防为主，但是兼顾长远要方便人民群众的就业和生活。
In the near future, strict precautions should be taken, but long-term care should be taken to facilitate people's employment and livelihood.
很多人提出，生命最重要，确实如此。
Many people argue that life is the most important thing, and so it is.
但是疫情之后，生活最重要。
But after the epidemic, life is the most important.
如果人们失去了工作，企业面临破产，那个时候我们该如何面对呢？因此，因地制宜地制定防疫政策显得尤为重要。
If people lose their jobs and businesses go bankrupt, what will we do about it? Therefore, tailoring epidemic prevention policies to local conditions is particularly important.
疫情严重地区要举全国之力；非疫情严重地区，要采取科学的管控手段；疫情轻微地区，在采取有效的防控措施之后，应及时全面开工开业，让人民生活恢复到正常。
In areas with serious epidemics, scientific means of control should be adopted; in areas with mild epidemics, full-scale operations should be started in time after effective prevention and control measures have been taken, so as to restore people's lives to normal.
（作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a chief economist at the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho.) Click here to find out more about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：应科学提高疫情防控效率，降低社会成本。
Li Tie: We should improve the efficiency and reduce the social cost of disease prevention and control scientifically.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：应科学提高疫情防控效率，降低社会成本";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Li iron: Should science improve disease control efficiency and reduce social costs & quot;;
var msg_desc = "减少行政方式作出各种不必要的防控要求，减少对企业运行的过度干预，强化科学管控和提高治理水平，提高城市防控效率，应该是城市管理者迫切需要考虑的问题";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Reducing administrative red tape by imposing unnecessary control requirements, reducing excessive interference in business operations, strengthening scientific regulation and governance, and improving the efficiency of urban control should be & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
