两份新冠肺炎病理检验出炉，全面遗体解剖仍在紧张进行。
Two new crown pneumonia pathology tests have been conducted, and a full autopsy of the remains is still under way.
辛颖。
Xinying.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
研究者正试图揭示新冠病毒的致病性、致死性机制，为临床治疗提供新依据，阶段结果是新冠病毒的致病特征与SARS相似，而进一步的结果或将由解剖揭开2020年2月初，武汉金银潭医院隔离病区内，医护人员正在给新冠肺炎患者做治疗。
Researchers are trying to uncover the pathogenicity and lethal mechanism of the new crown virus to provide a new basis for clinical treatment. The result is that the pathogenic characteristics of the new crown virus are similar to SARS, and further results may be revealed by autopsy in early February 2020.
武汉金银潭医院/供图文|《财经》记者 辛颖 实习记者 朱贺编辑|王小2020年2月17日下午5点，第三例武汉新冠肺炎病死患者遗体病理解剖正在进行中，负责人华中科技大学同济医学院法医刘良当日上午在朋友圈发布信息，“近期谢绝采访和打扰，需要专心做事，好好休息，保存体力和脑力”。
Wuhan Gold & amp; Silver Pool Hospital / Caijing Reporter Xinying Reporter Zhu Xiaoying at 5: 00 pm on February 17, 2020, the third case of death from Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia remains are under way.
刘良所带领的团队已在前一天完成前两例遗体病理解剖，样本送检。
Liu's team had completed the first two pathologic autopsies the previous day and sent samples for examination.
加快速度，预计10天能出结果。
Accelerate. Results expected in 10 days.
而在2月16日、17日，两份关于新冠肺炎患者病理检验的论文均已发布，得出的结论均指向，新型冠状病毒的病理特征与SARS感染相似。
On February 16 and 17, two papers on the pathology of patients with new coronavirus were published, leading to the conclusion that the pathologic features of the new coronavirus were similar to those of SARS.
这两篇论文由武汉大学中南医院病理科进行肺部样本活检，解放军总医院第五医学中心感染病诊疗与研究中心进行死亡后微创病理诊断，对病例的肺、肝和心脏组织取样。
The two papers were examined by pathology department of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, and the Infection Diagnosis and Research Center of the Fifth Medical Center of PLA General Hospital carried out post-mortem microinvasive pathologic diagnosis and sampled the lung, liver and heart tissues of the cases.
样本活检与刘良所进行的全面尸检不同。
The sample biopsy was different from the full autopsy performed by Liu Liang.
多位业内人士向《财经》记者分析，活检样本的优势在于更接近疾病的真实状态，排除了死亡本身对样本的影响。
A number of industry sources told Caijing that the advantage of the biopsy sample was that it was closer to the true state of the disease and ruled out the effects of death itself on the sample.
但是活检病例的机会可遇不可求，活检以及死亡后微创病例检查都是局部性的，只有全面尸检才能揭开病毒隐藏在患者身体中的全貌。
But the opportunity of biopsy cases is not available. Biopsy and post-mortem minimally invasive case examination are local. Only a full autopsy can reveal the full extent of the virus hidden in the patient's body.
截至2月18日24时，全国新冠肺炎累计死亡病例2004例。
As of 2400 hours February 18, the total number of new crown pneumonia death cases nationwide in 2004.
首例出现在1月9日，随后，病理学家提出对死亡病例的尸检解剖，希望为这一全新病毒的致病机理研究提供更多帮助。
The first case occurred on January 9, after which pathologists proposed an autopsy of the death case, hoping to shed more light on the pathogenesis of the new virus.
2月18日下午，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山指出，对感染新冠病毒去世患者的尸体解剖很重要，17年前对SARS患者的尸体解剖说明了肺是怎样病变的，也显示了除肺部以外，病毒对全身脏器的影响情况。
On the afternoon of February 18, Zhong Nan-shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of the high-level group of experts of the National Fitness and Health Commission, noted the importance of autopsies of patients infected with the new crown virus.
更多的病理诊断专家正在前往武汉支援。
More pathologists are heading to Wuhan for support.
除了已在一线的中国人民解放军陆军军医大学第一附属医院教授、院士卞修武外，2月17日，上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院病理科主任王朝夫带队2名病理学专家，1名超声诊断专家、2位基础病理学医生，也赴汉开展病因诊断研究。
On February 17, two pathologists, one ultrasonographer and two basic pathologists, led by the Director of Pathology, Ruijin Hospital, attached to the School of Medicine of Shanghai Jiaotong University, also went to China on February 17 to conduct a diagnostic study of the etiology.
他们试图揭示新冠病毒的致病性、致死性病理，给未来临床治疗危重症患者提供依据，降低死亡率。
They tried to reveal the pathogenicity and fatal pathology of the new crown virus, provide evidence for the future clinical treatment of critically ill patients, and reduce mortality.
遗体解剖要求高盼望促成此事的各方都经过了漫长的准备，至2月15日，国家卫健委在武汉召开关于病死病例尸检讨论会，当天晚上9点，刘良就接到金银潭医院院长张定宇电话，称有一个新冠肺炎逝世患者遗体可以做解剖手术。
The autopsy of the body required long preparations from all parties who had high hopes of contributing to it. By 9: 00 pm on the same day, Liu received a telephone call from Zhang Dingyu, the director of the gold and silver pool hospital, saying that the body of a patient who had died of pneumonia could undergo autopsy.
从国家协调讨论到执行仅几个小时。
The discussion from national coordination to implementation is only a few hours away.
据《北京青年报》报道，刘良和团队在1月24日向湖北省政府递交申请，强调对新冠肺炎病死患者全面尸检的重要性和可行性。
Liu Liang and his team submitted an application to the Hubei provincial government on January 24, stressing the importance and feasibility of a full autopsy of those who died of pneumonia, the Beijing Youth Daily reported.
并在此前完成详细的预案、进行模拟演练，这些步骤对涉及传染病的尸检都尤为重要。
And before the completion of detailed plans, simulation exercises, these steps are particularly important for autopsy involving infectious diseases.
在解剖过程中，操作人员的感染风险甚至超过一线救治人员，上海瑞金医院的病理团队出发前，在2月16日下午进行了长达4小时的三级防护标准培训。
During the autopsy, the operator's risk of infection even exceeded that of first-line responders, and the Shanghai Ruijin Hospital pathology team conducted a four-hour training session on tertiary protection standards in the afternoon of February 16.
“解剖病例会帮助认识病的特点，贯彻在治疗里，特别是在通气上能不能改变方式，让气道通畅。
"Anatomical cases help recognize the characteristics of the disease, and follow through with treatments, especially ventilation, that can change the way the airway is unobstructed.
”钟南山介绍，目前已得到资料，发现新冠肺炎患者表现与SARS有点不一样，例如肺部不是想象中严重的纤维化，但炎症很厉害，有大量黏液。
Zhong Nan-shan said that so far data had shown that patients with pneumonia showed signs of a difference from SARS. For example, the lungs were not as severe as expected, but inflammation was severe and there was a lot of mucus.
这与临床发现吻合，一些患者虽然痰不太多，但是非常粘，阻碍正常通气。
This is consistent with clinical findings, some patients although sputum is not too much, but very sticky, impeding normal ventilation.
新冠肺炎的临床治疗，现在确实遇到了瓶颈。
The clinical treatment of New Crown Pneumonia has indeed encountered a bottleneck.
上海驰援湖北医疗队领队郑军华进驻以收治重症患者的金银潭医院后，在遇到长期抢救但效果不好的病例时十分困惑，“CRRT（连续肾脏替代疗法）、ECMO（人工膜肺）等脏器替代医疗技术已经非常先进，但依然没能挽救他们的生命，如果能了解发病机制，或许会有进一步的治疗方案。
"CRRT (Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy) and ECMO (Artificial Membrane Pulmonary) are already very advanced but have not yet saved their lives. If we can understand the pathogenesis of the disease, there may be further treatment options.
”郑军华告诉《财经》记者，他在2月12日左右，开始与金银潭医院沟通解剖诊断的想法。
Zhengjunhua told Caijing that he had started communicating with Gold and Silver Pool Hospital about February 12 about the idea of an autopsy diagnosis.
金银潭医院是提供此次病死患者尸检场地的第三方合作者。
Gold and Silver Pool Hospital is a third-party co-worker providing autopsy facilities for patients who died.
而涉及传染病的尸检对场地要求非常高，一位资深法医对《财经》记者坦言，如果不是生物安全等级达到P3、P4的实验室，团队是不敢承接涉传染病尸检工作的。
An autopsy involving an infectious disease is highly demanding, and a senior forensic scientist told Caijing that the team would not have dared to undertake a post-mortem examination of an infectious disease had it not been for a laboratory at P3 and P4 biosafety levels.
据《财经》记者了解，作为一家传染病医院，金银潭医院虽然没有严格的高等级生物安全实验室，但原本就建有负压手术室。
According to Caijing reporter, as a hospital for infectious diseases, although the gold and silver pool hospital does not have a strict high-level bio-safety laboratory, it has built a negative pressure operating room.
“这样就符合一些基础要求，再通过其他条件上的弥补，来保证病毒不会传播、扩散产生次生灾害，也能保证操作人员自身不被感染。
"This will meet some of the basic requirements and other conditions to ensure that the virus does not spread, that secondary disasters occur, and that the operators themselves are not infected.
”一位知情人士告诉《财经》记者。
A person familiar with the matter told Caijing.
2020年2月初，武汉金银潭医院隔离病区内，医护人员正在给新冠肺炎患者做治疗。
Early February 2020, Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital isolation area, hospital staff are treating patients with new crown pneumonia.
武汉金银潭医院/供图金银潭医院的相关负责人对《财经》说，尸检准备工作细节要积累一些成熟的经验再对外公开，目前暂不介绍。
The director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital / Gold and Silver Pool Hospital told Caijing that the details of the preparations for the autopsy should be made public.
两份早期完成并已经发布的报告均由医疗机构内部的临床病理研究人员完成。
Two of the earlier and published reports were completed by clinical pathologists within the medical establishment.
正在紧张中的此次遗体解剖，得到行政和卫生部门的批件。
The autopsy of the body, which was under intense pressure, was approved by the administrative and health authorities.
遗体病理解剖的重头戏，涉及临床病理研究和法医病理研究，前者在医疗机构，后者提供司法服务，在中国能兼顾两者的专家实在少。
The main pathological anatomy of human remains involves clinical pathology, which is conducted in medical institutions, and forensic pathology, which provides judicial services. There are very few experts in China who can take both into account.
中山医科大学法医学博士左芷津告诉《财经》记者，“临床病理研究的是疾病，更擅长分析疾病的作用机制和形态学的改变，也更懂传染病防控。
"Clinical pathology studies diseases, more adept at analyzing the mechanism of disease and morphological changes, and more understanding of infectious disease prevention and control," Zuo Zhijin, PhD in forensic medicine at Zhongshan Medical University, told Caijing
法医病理专注死亡原因和死亡机理的分析，更擅长解剖。
Forensic pathology focuses on the causes of death and the mechanisms of death, and is more adept at dissection.
每个死亡病人都会有共同点，但也有个性。
Every patient who dies has something in common, but also a personality.
具有典型代表意义的，更希望能够做病理诊断。
Has the typical representative significance, would like to be able to do the pathologic diagnosis.
找到合适的病例遗体很重要，郑军华及其团队负责筛选病例，那些在经过长期治疗效果不佳，多器官功能受到损伤的遗体，对了解疾病的发生发展更有意义。
Finding the right cases is important, and Zheng Junhua and his team are responsible for screening cases. Remains that have suffered multiple organ dysfunction after long-term treatment are more meaningful in understanding how the disease develops.
特别是急性呼吸衰竭，急性心功能衰竭。
Especially acute respiratory failure, acute heart failure.
此次疫情中，很多病人都出现休克和凝血机制障碍，包括肝肾功能损伤。
Shock and coagulation disorders, including liver and kidney dysfunction, were common in many patients during the outbreak.
整个团队最大的顾虑，是家属必须签署知情同意书。
The biggest concern for the team is that the family must sign an informed consent form.
根据《传染病防治法》第四十六条规定，对传染病病人尸体或者疑似传染病病人尸体进行解剖查验，应当告知死者家属。
According to Article 46 of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the family members of the deceased shall be informed when autopsies are conducted on the corpses of patients or suspected infectious diseases.
团队在和家属充分沟通后，他们同意了。
After full communication with the family, they agreed.
2月16日尸检前，整个团队专门为逝者默哀。
Before the autopsy on February 16, the entire team observed a moment of silence for the dead.
偶然获得两份活检样本无论是已经发表的论文，抑或病理解剖，大家都会将新冠病毒和SARS做对比。
Occasionally, two biopsy samples were obtained, either from published papers or from pathological anatomy, and the new crown virus was compared to SARS.
全球首发新冠肺炎患者病理结果的论文，取样自一位50岁男性患者。
A 50-year-old male patient was sampled for the pathologic findings of the world's first case of new crown pneumonia.
他曾于1月8日—12日赴武汉旅游，1月14日为发病第1天，出现轻度畏寒、干咳，未就诊。
He traveled to Wuhan on January 8-12, the first day of his illness on January 14. He developed mild chills, dry coughs and failed to see a doctor.
1月21日因发烧、畏寒、咳嗽、身体乏力和呼吸急促等症状就诊。
On 21 January, he was treated for fever, chills, cough, physical weakness and shortness of breath.
胸部X光片显示双肺多发斑片状阴影，医院取了患者的咽拭子标本。
The chest X-ray revealed multiple patches of shadow in the lungs and the hospital took swab samples from the patient's pharynx.
1月22日确诊为新冠肺炎患者。
Diagnosed as New Crown Pneumonia on January 22.
1月27日下午，患者发病的第14天，低氧血症和呼吸急促加重。
In the afternoon of January 27, 14 days after the onset of the disease, hypoxemia and shortness of breath increased.
接受氧疗(100%浓度，流速40 L/min)后，血氧饱和度降至60%，心脏骤停。
Blood oxygen saturation decreased to 60% after receiving oxygen therapy (100% concentration with a velocity of 40 L / min) and cardiac arrest.
之后立即接受了有创通气、胸部按压和肾上腺素注射。
He was immediately given invasive ventilation, chest compressions and epinephrine injection.
不幸的是，抢救没有成功，于18时31分死亡。
Unfortunately, the rescue failed and he died at 1831 hours.
当日，患者逝世后，研究人员通过微创，从患者的肺、肝和心脏组织中取得样本，进行了死亡后微创病理检查。
On the day the patient died, the researchers took samples from the patient's lungs, liver and heart tissue through minimally invasive post-mortem pathology.
检查结果显示，双侧弥漫性肺泡损伤，伴细胞纤维粘液样渗出物。
The results showed diffuse alveolar injury with cellular fibromyxoid exudate.
右肺有明显的肺细胞脱落和透明膜形成，表明患者有急性呼吸窘迫综合征(ARDS)。
The right lung showed significant pulmonary cell loss and hyaluronic membrane formation, indicating acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
左肺组织显示肺水肿伴透明膜形成，提示患者有早期急性呼吸窘迫综合征（ARDS）。
The left lung tissue showed pulmonary edema with hyaluronic membrane formation, suggesting early acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
双侧肺可见以淋巴细胞为主的间质性单核细胞炎性浸润。
Inflammatory infiltration of interstitial monocytes with lymphocytes was seen in both lungs.
肺泡内可见多核合胞体细胞和非典型增大的肺细胞，呈病毒样细胞病变。
Polynuclear syncytomas and atypically enlarged lung cells were seen in the alveoli, presenting viral cell lesions.
核内或胞浆内未见明显的病毒包涵体。
There were no significant viral inclusion bodies in the nucleus or cytoplasm.
2月17日，《柳叶刀呼吸医学》在线发表了这篇名为《新型冠状病毒相关急性呼吸窘迫综合征的病理学发现》的论文。
On February 17, The Lancet Respiratory Medicine published online the paper entitled "Pathological findings of the new coronavirus-related acute respiratory distress syndrome."
该论文指出，新型冠状病毒的病理特征与SARS和中东呼吸综合征(MERS)冠状病毒感染极为相似。
This paper points out that the pathological features of the new coronavirus are very similar to those of SARS and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus infection.
X光片显示患者肺炎进展迅速，对于左右肺的损害存在差异。
X-rays showed rapid progression of pneumonia in the patient, with differences in lesion of the left and right lungs.
此外，肝组织显示中度微血管脂肪变性和轻度小叶活动，但没有确凿的证据表明是新型冠状病毒感染或药物导致的肝损伤。
In addition, liver tissue showed moderate microvascular steatosis and mild lobular activity, but there was no conclusive evidence of a new coronavirus infection or liver damage caused by drugs.
心脏组织未见明显的组织学变化，表明新型冠状病毒感染可能不直接对心脏造成损害。
There were no significant histological changes in cardiac tissue suggesting that the new coronavirus infection may not directly damage the heart.
淋巴细胞减少是新冠肺炎患者的常见特征，可能是与疾病严重程度和死亡率相关的关键因素。
Lymphocyte depletion is a common feature in patients with new crown pneumonia and may be a key factor associated with disease severity and mortality.
研究人员直接据此对临床治疗提出建议，虽然不推荐在新冠肺炎治疗中常规使用糖皮质激素，“但根据肺水肿和肺透明膜形成的病理结果，应考虑针对重症患者及时、适当地使用糖皮质激素和呼吸机治疗，以防止急性呼吸窘迫综合征的发展。
The researchers made direct recommendations for clinical treatment, although the routine use of glucocorticoids in the treatment of new crown pneumonia is not recommended. "However, based on the pathologic findings of pulmonary edema and hyaluronema, timely and appropriate use of glucocorticoid and ventilator therapy should be considered for severe cases to prevent the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome.
”这例新冠肺炎重症患者的临床和病理发现，不仅有助于明确患者的死亡原因，也将有助于理解新冠病毒的发病机制，对医生制定针对类似重症患者的及时治疗方案也将有帮助，降低死亡率。
The clinical and pathologic findings of this case of severe coronary pneumonia will not only help clarify the cause of death in patients, but will also help to understand the pathogenesis of the new crown virus and help doctors develop timely treatment protocols for patients with similar severe illnesses and reduce mortality.
在患者死前取到新冠肺炎活检样本则来自偶然机会。
Samples of the new crown pneumonia biopsy taken before the patient's death were taken by chance.
武汉中南医院病理科在回顾性研究时偶然取得了两份新冠肺炎活检样本。
The pathology department of Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital accidentally obtained two new crest pneumonia biopsy samples in the retrospective study.
来自中南医院收治的两名癌症患者。
Two cancer patients admitted from the Central South Hospital.
他们准备接受肺叶切除术，当时均未表现肺炎症状。
They were prepared for lobectomy, and none of them showed signs of pneumonia at the time.
因此正常取样进行临床病理诊断，而在后期发现两人在取样前均已感染新冠病毒，但尚未发病。
Thus, normal samples were used for clinical pathologic diagnosis, and both were found to have acquired the new crown virus before sampling, but had not developed disease.
中南医院病理科田素芳告诉《财经》记者，由于取样时并不清楚感染情况，因此也难以谈及特别防护，但固定样本的时间足够长，而且在脱水等流程要经过不同浓度梯度的酒精对病毒灭活，所幸未对病理研究人员产生影响。
Tian Sufang, pathologist at Zhongnan Hospital, told Caijing that it was difficult to talk about special protection because the infection was not known at the time of sampling, but the fixed samples were long enough and the virus was inactivated by alcohol with different concentration gradients, such as dehydration, fortunately not affecting pathologists.
田素芳的患者之一，是一位84岁的女性，其CT扫描中发现右肺中叶有1.5厘米长的肿瘤。
One of Tian Sufang's patients, an 84-year-old woman, found a 1.5-centimeter tumor in the middle of the right lung on CT scans.
患者已有30年的高血压和2型糖尿病病史。
The patient has a 30-year history of hypertension and type 2 diabetes.
在中南医院住院的第6天，进行了胸部增强CT检查，证实右肺中叶出现不规则的实性结节，双肺磨玻璃样病变。
On the sixth day of hospitalization in the Central South Hospital, a chest-enhanced CT examination was performed, confirming irregular solid nodules in the right lung and glass-like lesions in both lungs.
该患者总体状况良好，没有发烧或呼吸道症状，并且双肺听诊清晰。
The patient was generally in good condition, had no fever or respiratory symptoms, and had clear auscultation of both lungs.
在入院第12天，进行了右肺中叶的胸腔镜切除手术。
On the twelfth day of admission, a thoracoscopic resection of the right lung was performed.
在第16天，患者出现呼吸困难，胸闷，喘息和干咳。
On day 16, the patient developed dyspnea, chest tightness, wheezing and dry cough.
她被诊断为“不明原因病毒性肺炎”。
She was diagnosed with "viral pneumonia of unknown cause."
在第24天，咽拭子测试呈阳性，被转移到特殊隔离病房。
On the 24th day, the pharynx swab tested positive and was transferred to a special isolation ward.
她在第27天进入昏迷状态，并在入院第29天死亡。
She went into a coma on the 27th day and died on the 29th day of hospitalization.
这位老年女性患者在住院期间没有发烧。
The elderly female patient had no fever while in hospital.
随后的临床资料证实，她曾与同一病房间另一名患者有接触，而该患者后来被发现感染了新冠病毒。
Subsequent clinical information confirmed that she had been in contact with another patient in the same room, who was later found to have contracted the new crown virus.
这一病例是新冠病毒暴发早期的常见情况——在医院里，同一房间的患者由于暴露而被交叉感染。
The case is common in the early stages of a new crown virus outbreak, where patients in the same room are exposed to cross-infection.
2月16日，田素芳的这一研究结果发表在多学科预印本平台Preprints发布，预印本是尚未被同行评审并发表在期刊上的研究，在大多数情况下，可以被视为最终草案或工作底稿。
Tian's findings were published on Feb. 16 in the multidisciplinary pre-print platform Preprints, which are studies that have not yet been peer-reviewed and published in journals and, in most cases, can be considered final drafts or working papers.
论文中出现的另一名患者，是一位有20年的高血压病史的73岁男性，于体检中发现右肺下叶结节，随后的穿刺活检中诊断出肺腺癌。
The other patient, a 73-year-old man with a 20-year history of high blood pressure, was examined and diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the right lower lobe during a biopsy.
患者在活检后一周入院，三天后手术。
The patient was admitted to hospital one week after biopsy and operated on three days later.
在术后第2天的胸部CT中，显示该患者右肺上叶有斑片状磨玻璃样阴影，在后来的回顾性检查中，发现是“疑似非典型病毒性肺炎”。
On the second day of operation, the right upper lobe of the patient was shown to have a speckle-shaped grinded glass-like shadow. In a later retrospective examination, it was found to be "suspected atypical viral pneumonia."
术后第9天，该名患者有发烧症状，伴有干咳、胸闷和肌肉疼痛。
On the ninth day of surgery, the patient developed fever with dry cough, chest tightness and muscle pain.
新冠病毒核酸检测结果为阳性，后又住进传染病病房，经过20天的治疗康复出院。
Nucleic acid test positive results, and then live in the infectious disease ward, after 20 days of treatment to recover from hospital.
“我们的研究可能代表了疾病的早期阶段，和SARS有很多相近的特点，希望能够对临床医生的治疗方案有所启发。
"Our study may represent an early stage of the disease, with many similarities to SARS, and hopefully it will shed light on the clinician's treatment plan."
如果还有系统尸检，结合辅助检查以及各种临床及实验室数据，会更全面地了解此疾病并指导临床治疗。
If there is a systematic autopsy, combined with auxiliary examinations and various clinical and laboratory data, it will provide a more complete understanding of the disease and guide clinical treatment.
”田素芳说。
'said Tian Sufang.
金银潭医院进行的全面尸检仍在等待结果，郑军华相信一定会有新的发现，“这是一个新的疾病，对病理、生理的变化还不了解，通过尸检会知道病毒攻击的方向、靶器官以及对其他器官的影响，包括全身各处繁殖、侵袭的场所发生的变化。
"This is a new disease, we don't know the pathologic and physiological changes, but we will know the direction of the virus attack, the target organs and the effects on other organs, including the changes in the places where the virus propagates and invades all over the body."
我们会离真相越来越近。
We're getting closer to the truth.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
两份新冠肺炎病理检验出炉，全面遗体解剖仍在紧张进行。
Two new crown pneumonia pathology tests have been conducted, and a full autopsy of the remains is still under way.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "两份新冠肺炎病理检验出炉，全面遗体解剖仍在紧张进行";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "研究者正试图揭示新冠病毒的致病性、致死性机制，为临床治疗提供新依据，阶段结果是新冠病毒的致病特征与SARS相似，而进一步的结果或将由解剖揭开";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The researchers are trying to uncover the pathogenicity and deadly mechanism of the new crown virus, providing a new basis for clinical treatment. The result is that the new crown virus has a similar disease profile to SARS, and that further findings may have been dissected or unravelled.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
