滞留新加坡的湖北人乘包机回家了。
Hubei people in Singapore took chartered flights home.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
_随着疫情蔓延，春节前出国前往新加坡的湖北人挂念至亲，但是航空公司纷纷停飞，他们的回家之路几经周折后出现转机_Play《财经》一线报道：海外滞留旅客由中国包机抵达武汉现场文|《财经》记者陈亮 刘以秦编辑 |施智梁“武汉疫情再严重，我们也要回来。
With the spread of the epidemic, Hubei people who left China for Singapore before the Spring Festival are anxious about their loved ones, but airlines have stopped flying and their journey home has been disrupted by flights from China to Wuhan.
”滞留在新加坡的潘胜利说。
"said Pan, stranded in Singapore.
新加坡地处热带，长年受赤道低压带控制，平均温度在23至34℃之间，湿度介于65%到90%之间。
Situated in the tropics, Singapore is permanently controlled by an equatorial low pressure band with an average temperature of between 23 and 34 ° C and a humidity of between 65 and 90 per cent.
温暖的新加坡历来是中国旅客的旅游地。
Warm Singapore has always been a tourist destination for Chinese tourists.
然而谁也没想到的是新型冠状病毒肺炎（下称“新冠肺炎”）打破了所有人的度假梦。
What no one expected, however, was that the new coronavirus pneumonia (hereafter referred to as "new coronavirus pneumonia") broke everyone's holiday dreams.
1月23日，武汉宣布关闭离汉通道。
On January 23, Wuhan announced the closure of the Han corridor.
收到消息后，拥有武汉-新加坡直飞航线的酷航暂停了该航线。
Received the news, has Wuhan-Singapore direct flight route cool air suspended the route.
随着事态的进展，新加坡多家航空公司取消了往返中国大陆的航班。
As events unfolded, Singapore's airlines canceled flights to and from China.
滞留在新加坡的湖北人比较焦急。
Hubei people stranded in Singapore are anxious.
蒋娟告诉《财经》记者，家里至亲正在武汉医院奋战，现在一门心思想赶回武汉。
Jiang told Caijing that his relatives were fighting in Wuhan hospital, and now he was trying to get back to Wuhan.
停飞多日后，事情出现了转机。
Many days after the flight was grounded, things changed.
2月5日，东航根据外交部、中国民航局的部署安排，派出一架空载的A330-200型飞机，从上海飞往新加坡樟宜机场，接滞留在当地的147名湖北籍旅客直飞武汉，最后空载回上海。
On February 5, according to the deployment arrangements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and China Civil Aviation Administration, China Eastern sent an empty A330-200 aircraft from Shanghai to Changi Airport in Singapore to pick up 147 stranded Hubei passengers directly to Wuhan and then returned to Shanghai empty-handed.
做了二级防护的机组人员下机后将隔离三天。
Crew with secondary protection will be isolated for three days after disembarking.
本着自愿购票的原则，滞留在新加坡、暂无发烧等症状的湖北籍旅客可以在购票后搭乘这班飞机。
In accordance with the principle of voluntary ticket purchase, stranded in Singapore, no fever, and other symptoms of Hubei passengers can buy tickets after this flight.
对于原想去南京与女儿团聚的伍仁来说，由于是湖北签发的护照，没有其他航班能带她回南京，她也只能选择这班飞机回武汉。
For Wu, who wanted to reunite with her daughter in Nanjing, there was no other flight to take her back to Nanjing because it was a Hubei passport and she had to take the plane back to Wuhan.
除了东航外，国航、南航、厦门航空、春秋航空分别派出包机赴日本、泰国，马来西亚等地接回湖北籍旅客。
In addition to China Eastern, Air China, China Airlines, Xiamen Airlines, Chunqiu Airlines sent charter flights to Japan, Thailand, Malaysia and other places to receive Hubei tourists.
中国民航局运输司司长于彪表示，自疫情发生以来，民航局已经组织12架次加班包机，运回滞留海外的湖北籍旅客1500多名。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the Civil Aviation Administration has organized 12 overtime charter flights to repatriate more than 1,500 stranded Hubei passengers, said Yu Biao, director of the department of transport at China's Civil Aviation Administration.
虽然2020年湖北出境人数尚无权威数据公布，但是2019年春节期间仅武汉边检站共查验出入境人员6.59万人次，较2018年春节期间增长14%。
While there are no authoritative figures on the number of people leaving the country in 2020, 65,900 people were checked at Wuhan border checkpoints alone during the 2019 Spring Festival, an increase of 14 percent over the 2018 Spring Festival.
从武汉天河机场口岸出境目的地排在前5位的国家和地区依次是泰国、日本、马来西亚、越南、香港。
The top five countries and regions are Thailand, Japan, Malaysia, Vietnam and Hong Kong.
一场湖北籍旅客的回家旅就此展开。
A journey home of Hubei tourists began.
航班取消，使馆包机湖北人的新加坡美好旅途中断于1月23日，湖北人的艰难回家路开始于1月23日。
The flight was canceled, the embassy chartered Hubei people on a wonderful trip to Singapore on January 23, the Hubei people's difficult home started on January 23.
1月23日凌晨，武汉市政府宣布，自1月23日10时起，武汉市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭，恢复时间另行通告。
In the early morning of January 23, the Wuhan city government announced that as of 10: 00 a.m. on January 23, Wuhan city had suspended the operation of city buses, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport.
一纸通告下，天不怕地不怕的武汉人开始慌了，在新加坡度假的蒋娟再也没有游玩兴致。
Under a notice, the fearless Wuhan people began to panic, the Singapore holiday Jiang Juan no longer have fun.
环球影城、圣淘沙、牛车水都不及在武汉医院奋战的亲人重要。
Universal Studios, Santao Sha, Niuchuanshui are not as important as the relatives fighting in Wuhan hospital.
无心游玩的蒋娟带着女儿在酒店内不停刷着国内新闻，了解武汉最新的情况。
Jiang Juan, who had no intention of playing, kept brushing the domestic news in the hotel with her daughter to learn the latest situation in Wuhan.
同时坚持每天测量三次体温。
Also keep measuring your temperature three times a day.
疫情彻底公开后，湖北人回家之路就变得困难。
After the outbreak was completely exposed, the road home for Hubei people became difficult.
新加坡宣布，自2020年1月31日23点59分起，所有在过去14天内到访中国大陆的新旅客，将不允许入境新加坡或在新加坡转机。
Singapore has announced that as of 23: 59 pm on 31 January 2020, all new visitors to Mainland China during the past 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit Singapore.
没有了从中国大陆过来的旅客，新加坡的航空公司开始取消往返中国大陆的航班。
With no passengers coming from mainland China, Singapore's airlines are beginning to cancel flights to and from China.
拥有新加坡-武汉直飞航线的酷航，在1月23日停飞了该航线。
With a Singapore-Wuhan direct flight of cool air, January 23 stopped the route.
酷航是新加坡航空公司旗下的廉价航空公司。
Cool Airlines is a low-cost airline owned by Singapore Airlines.
1月31日，新加坡航空及胜安航空宣布，自2020年2月起，取消部分中国大陆航线航班的运营。
On January 31, Singapore Airlines and Sheng An Airlines announced that it would cancel the operation of some Chinese mainland airlines from February 2020.
新加坡航空及胜安航空往返北京、上海、广州、深圳、厦门、重庆、成都的航班先后被取消。
Singapore Airlines and Sheng An Airlines flights to and from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Chongqing and Chengdu have been cancelled.
由于湖北是这次新冠肺炎爆发的重点地区，原本要去南京的新加坡滞留旅客伍仁告诉《财经》记者，因为持有湖北签发的护照，因为无法在南京入境。
Since Hubei was the epicentre of the outbreak, Singapore passenger Wu Yan, who was to have gone to Nanjing, told Caijing because he held a passport issued by Hubei because he could not enter Nanjing.
滞留在新加坡的湖北人，有的人花光了钱、有的人签证快到期了......1月30日，中国民航局表态，民航局持续与国家卫生健康委、外交部、文化和旅游部等部委以及航空公司驻外机构保持密切联系，组织协调安排航班或包机将有需要的旅客运送回国。
On January 30, the Civil Aviation Administration of China announced that it was in close contact with the National Health Commission, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and airlines' agencies overseas.
中国驻新加坡大使馆开始行动，联系东航，组织包机将滞留新加坡的湖北籍旅客送回家。
The Chinese Embassy in Singapore began an operation to contact China Eastern to arrange chartered flights to bring home Hubei passengers stranded in Singapore.
2月4日，接到中国驻新加坡大使馆电话后，潘胜利很高兴，有包机可以回家了。
On February 4, after receiving a call from the Chinese Embassy in Singapore, Pan was delighted to have chartered flights home.
尽管新加坡人没有因为疫情歧视中国人，新加坡卫生局还会来电关心身体状况，但对于潘胜利来说，家才是有安全感的地方。
Although Singaporeans do not discriminate against Chinese because of the epidemic, Singapore's Health Bureau will call to care about their health, but for Pan, home is the place to feel safe.
本着自愿购票的原则，蒋娟、潘胜利、伍仁等147名湖北籍旅客买到了2月5日回国的机票。
In accordance with the principle of voluntary ticket purchase, Jiang Juan, Pan victory, Wu Yan and other 147 Hubei tourists have bought the return of February 5 tickets.
2月5日，新加坡，晴。
5 February, Singapore, Fine.
在海外漂泊半个多月的湖北旅客一大早退了房，戴上口罩，蒋娟、潘胜利、伍仁开始向樟宜机场出发。
Wandering in the overseas more than half a month Hubei travelers early in the morning, wearing masks, Jiang Juan, Pan victory, Wu Renren began to Changyi Airport departure.
与以往值机不同，东航在新加坡机场安排了包机独立值机区域。
Unlike previous check-ins, China Eastern arranged for charter independent check-in areas at Singapore airport.
蒋娟在值机柜台测量完体温，显示正常后，开始办票。
Jiang Juan at the check-in counter to measure the body temperature, show normal, began to run tickets.
拿到登机牌后，经过退税柜台、移民局、安检一系列的绿色通道，蒋娟一家抵达了登记口。
After getting boarding pass, through the tax refund counter, immigration, security a series of green passage, Jiang Juan's family arrived at the registration point.
由于东航飞机在中午12时才能落地，蒋娟从东航新加坡地面工作人员处拿到了一份特制的热餐。
As China Eastern did not land until 12: 00 noon, Jiang Juan received a special hot meal from the Singapore ground staff of China Eastern.
12时01分，东航MU799航班落地新加坡樟宜机场。
At 1201 hours, Eastern Airlines flight MU799 landed at Singapore's Changi Airport.
经过登机口再度测温后，潘胜利上飞机了。
After a second temperature check at the gate, Pan got on the plane successfully.
经过4个半小时飞行后，飞机落地武汉天河机场04L跑道。
After four and a half hours flight, the plane landed in Wuhan Tianhe Airport 04L runway.
当飞机停稳后，所有旅客都迫不及待地站了起来。
When the plane stopped, all the passengers rushed to their feet.
18时许，机舱门缓缓打开。
About 1800 hours the cabin door opened slowly.
为了控制候机楼内的旅客密度天河机场方面要求五个一下飞机。
In order to control the passenger density inside the terminal Tianhe Airport requires five disembarkation.
由于带了小朋友，蒋娟排在了前面。
With the children, Jiang Juan was in the front.
大约半小时后，蒋娟和女儿跨出了舱门。
About half an hour later, Jiang Juan and her daughter stepped out of the hatch.
2月5日夜，武汉还是阴冷刺骨，但回家的蒋娟没有感到寒意。
On the night of February 5, Wuhan was still cold and piercing, but Jiang Juan did not feel cold when he returned home.
无法去南京女儿家的伍仁，最终选择回老家宜昌。
Cannot go to Nanjing daughter's home Wu Yan, finally choose to go back home Yichang.
蒋娟女儿在空旷的候机楼内奔跑，她完全不明白武汉此刻正在发生什么。
Jiang Juan's daughter is running in the open terminal building, she has no idea what is happening in Wuhan at the moment.
东航机长的24小时“大家好！我是本次航班的机长杨韬，和我一起执行今天任务的还有郭庆轩，顾高风，吉文渊，以及12位客舱的同事们！今天我们将一起合作，把大家带回家。
Hello everyone, this is Tao Yang, captain of this flight, and I am with Guo Qingxuan, Gu Gaofeng, Gwen Yuan, and 12 cabin crew! Today we will work together to bring you home.
”2月6日凌晨2时许，执行完东航新加坡包机任务的机长杨韬终于躺在了床上。
At about 2 a.m. on February 6, the captain of an Air China charter flight from Singapore was finally lying in bed.
距离他上一次躺下，已经过了近24个小时。
It had been nearly 24 hours since he had last lain down.
2月4日11时15分，想在疫情期间当网约车司机免费接送医务工作者的杨韬收到了一条微信，2月5日他需要去执行一个临时飞行任务——从武汉接滞留新加坡的旅客。
February 4 At 1115 hours, Tao Yang, who was trying to pick up medical workers free of charge during the outbreak, received a letter from Tao Yang, who was on a temporary mission to pick up Singapore passengers from Wuhan on February 5.
东航客舱服务部两名经理刘仕英和黄军几乎也在同一时间被告知，自己被抽中去执行新加坡接湖北籍滞留旅客的航班。
At about the same time, two managers of China Eastern cabin service, Liu Shiying and Huang Jun, were told they had been picked up to fly stranded Hubei passengers from Singapore.
收到任务消息后，刘仕英、黄军立刻赶回家收拾行李。
After receiving the news, Liu Shiying and Huang Jun immediately returned home to pack their luggage.
由于执行此次航班需要穿上防护服及事后隔离，黄军挑选了舒服宽松的衣服，并和家人告别。
Having to wear protective clothing and be isolated afterwards, Huang chose comfortable, loose clothes and said good-bye to his family.
除了日常打包行李外，刘仕英在自己的行李箱内还放进了当下紧缺的物资——口罩。
In addition to the daily luggage, Liu Shi-ying in his suitcase also put in the current shortage of supplies - masks.
刘仕英告诉《财经》记者，如果新加坡当地同胞买不到口罩登机的话，可以分发给有需要的旅客。
Mr Lau told Caijing that if Singaporeans could not buy masks to board, they could be distributed to those who needed them.
2月4日晚上20时，刘仕英、黄军等12位乘务员达到东航浦东基地待命，并领取了防护服、纸尿裤、护目镜、消毒纸巾等物资。
February 4 at 20: 00 p.m., Liu Shiying, Huang Jun and other 12 crew members arrived at the Pudong base of China Eastern Airlines standby, and received protective clothing, diapers, goggles, disinfectant paper towels and other materials.
当常务组在浦东基地待命时，杨韬正在家中做着飞行前的准备工作。
While the general team waited at Pudong Base, he was making preparations for his flight at home.
杨韬很久没有飞武汉了，为了确保航班的万无一失，杨韬反复查看武汉的飞行资料，研究天气情况。
Yang Tao had not flown to Wuhan for a long time. To ensure the safety of his flight, he looked over Wuhan's flight data and studied the weather conditions.
杨韬写下了20条注意事项，其中飞行安全被放在了首位。
Mr Yang wrote 20 notes, among which flight safety was at the top of his list.
2月5日2时30分，杨韬起床，赶往浦东机场。
February 5 At 2: 30 he got up and rushed to Pudong Airport.
在航前准备会后，MU799航班的所有人员多了一项工作内容，就是如何穿脱防护服。
After the pre-flight preparations, all personnel on flight MU799 were given an additional job on how to take off their protective clothing.
2月5日凌晨4时，所有机组成员上车，前往停机坪。
At 4 a.m. on 5 February, all crew members boarded the vehicle and proceeded to the apron.
在飞机上用完简单的早餐后，所有人都开始了自己的工作。
After a simple breakfast on the plane, everyone started their work.
6时39分，飞机从浦东机场起飞。
At 0639 hours, the aircraft took off from Pudong airport.
落地新加坡前的两个小时，所有机组成员都禁食禁水，为接下来12个小时做好生理上准备。
For two hours before landing in Singapore, all crew members were fasting and were physically ready for the next 12 hours.
2月5日12时01分，航班落地新加坡樟宜机场。
The flight landed at Singapore's Changi Airport at 1201 hours on 5 February.
飞机停稳后，机组成员开始穿上纸尿裤、防护服，并在防护服的背面写上“武汉加油”。
After the plane stopped, the crew began to put on paper diapers, protective clothing, and on the back of the protective clothing write "Wuhan refueling."
戴上护目镜、口罩，穿上全套装备的黄军感慨，从懂事以来，还没有穿过纸尿裤。
Wear goggles, masks, wearing the full equipment of the yellow army feeling, since sensible, has not worn paper diapers.
舱门缓缓打开，滞留新加坡已久的湖北旅客陆陆续续登机。
The door slowly opened and passengers from Hubei Province, who had been stranded in Singapore, continued to board.
一声声“欢迎回家”代替了以往的“欢迎登机”，这是刘仕英、黄军们给湖北同胞带来的第一份温暖。
"Welcome home" instead of the previous "welcome aboard," which Liu Shi Ying, Huang Jun brought to Hubei compatriots the first warm.
147名湖北旅客登机完成后，防护服的刘仕英衣服已经全部湿透了。
After 147 Hubei passengers boarded the plane, the protective clothing Liu Shi Ying clothes have been drenched.
13时32分，飞机从樟宜机场起飞。
At 1332 hours the aircraft took off from Changi airport.
飞机落地武汉后，刘仕英、黄军开始准备下客工作。
The plane landed in Wuhan, Liu Shi Ying, Huang Jun began to prepare to disembark work.
由于武汉机场控制旅客密度，一次只能下五名旅客，这次下客显得异常漫长。
Wuhan airport because of passenger density control, only five passengers at a time, this drop-off seems very long.
历经4个小时，147名全部下飞机。
After four hours, 147 people got off the plane.
进行短暂消毒后，2月5日22时27分，MU799航班从武汉起飞，飞向上海。
After a brief disinfection, flight MU799 took off from Wuhan and headed for Shanghai at 2227 hours on 5 February.
在离开武汉管制区前，副驾驶吉文渊通过无线电喊了一句：“武汉加油”。
Before leaving Wuhan Control Area, deputy pilot Jiwenyuan shouted through the radio: "Wuhan refueling."
2月5日23时点28分，飞机落地浦东机场。
At 2328 hours on February 5, the plane landed at Pudong airport.
穿戴近12小时后，黄军脱下了防护服，感受到了久违的舒适。
After wearing it for nearly 12 hours, Huang took off his protective clothing and felt comfortable for a long time.
2月6日0时45分，经过消毒检疫后，杨韬等机组成员进入隔离点。
February 6 0: 45, after disinfection quarantine, Yang Tao and other crew members enter the isolation point.
一天未进食进水的杨向家人报了平安之后，填补了几口。
A day did not feed into the water Yang to his family reported safe, after filling a few mouthfuls.
凌晨2时，杨韬终于躺下了。
At 2 o'clock in the morning Yang Tao finally lay down.
（潘胜利、蒋娟、伍仁为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Pan, Jiang Juan, Wu Ren as a pseudonym) Click here for more details about the epidemic: & nbsp; & # 45; Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
滞留新加坡的湖北人乘包机回家了。
Hubei people in Singapore took chartered flights home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "滞留新加坡的湖北人乘包机回家了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by charter flight.
var msg_desc = "随着疫情蔓延，春节前出国前往新加坡的湖北人挂念至亲，但是航空公司纷纷停飞，他们的回家之路几经周折后出现转机";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
