抗疫时期的武汉爱情故事：有人在街头流浪，有人在异地相思。
Wuhan love story of the period of the epidemic: some people in the streets, someone in the other place Acacia.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 刘以秦。
Author Liu Iqin.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
疫情蔓延时，在无数依然相爱或曾经相爱的人眼里，只要能够平安，就是最好的庆祝文|《财经》特派武汉记者刘以秦 编辑 |余乐2月14日，这是很多人眼里一个相爱的人相聚的日子。
When the epidemic spread, peace was the best celebration for countless people still in love or who had loved each other. Caijing sent Wuhan journalist Liu Yicheng, editor and editor of Caijing, February 14, a day when many people think people in love are together.
截止2月14日上午11点，武汉新冠肺炎确诊人数已经达到35991例，较昨日增加3910例，疫情还在蔓延，武汉依旧处于“封城”状态。
As of 11 a.m. on February 14, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Wuhan has reached 35,991, 3910 more than yesterday, the epidemic is still spreading, Wuhan is still in a "closed" state.
对于还留在武汉的人们来说，今年的2月14日最为特殊。
February 14 is the most special day for those who remain in Wuhan.
没有鲜花，餐馆、电影院、商场大门紧闭，路上行人戴着口罩，看不清脸上的表情。
No flowers, restaurants, cinemas, shopping mall doors closed, pedestrians wearing masks, can not see the expression on the face.
一些相爱的人因为疫情分隔两地；一些爱人们因为疫情，即使见面也不能触碰；一些曾经相爱的人因为疫情分手；还有一些人，因为疫情，更能体会到爱情的来之不易。
Some loved each other because of the outbreak of the two places; some loved people because of the outbreak, even when they could not touch; some people have fallen in love because of the outbreak; others, because of the epidemic, more experienced the hard-won love.
流浪武汉：“两个人在一起就够了”《财经》记者刘以秦 摄2月11日上午，袁智清洗了个热水澡，吃到了半个多月以来第一顿米饭，美美地睡了一觉。
Wandering Wuhan: "Two people together enough" LiuYi Qin reporters Liu Yizhi February 11 morning, Yuan Zhi washed a hot bath, ate more than half a month of rice, delicious sleep.
他和老婆已经在武汉滞留了18天，在街头流浪了5天。
He and his wife have been stranded in Wuhan for 18 days and on the streets for five days.
1月23日，除夕前一天，武汉宣布“封城”，在深圳打工的袁智清早早买好了车票，准备带着老婆回老家湖北十堰过年，在武汉换乘。
On January 23, the day before New Year's Eve, Wuhan announced that "closed the city," the Shenzhen workers Yuan Zhiqing early bought tickets, ready to take his wife back home to Hubei Shiyan for the New Year, in Wuhan transfer.
他看到新闻说武汉要“封城”，打电话询问12306，客服告诉他可以换乘，但不能改签。
When he saw the news that Wuhan would "seal the city," he called 12306 and the customer service told him he could transfer, but could not.
1月24日早上，他们抵达武汉，被车站工作人员告知，在解封之前，他们不能离开武汉，再拨打12306，就一直打不进去了。
On the morning of 24 January, they arrived in Wuhan and were told by station staff that they could not leave Wuhan and dial 12306 before being unsealed.
自武汉“封城”起，因各种原因滞留在武汉的人不在少数。
Wuhan since the "closure" of the city, for a variety of reasons to stay in Wuhan a number of people.
一位从上海回重庆老家过年的男士，临时决定来武汉看望朋友，最后只能留在武汉过年；来自江西的一家四口，年前来武汉自驾游，没来得及撤离，滞留在武汉；还有一位来自黑龙江的19岁女生，陪男朋友回武汉过年，封城后又因家暴与男朋友分手，一个人滞留在武汉。
A 19-year-old girl from Heilongjiang came to Wuhan with her boyfriend for the Spring Festival. After breaking up with her boyfriend, a 19-year-old girl from Heilongjiang stopped in Wuhan for the Spring Festival.
袁智清在贴吧里找到了许多和他一样滞留在武汉的人，加入了“滞留武汉的外地人员”微信群，这个群里已经有超过230个滞留者，他告诉《财经》记者，大约一半是来武汉探亲的，另一半是来转车、旅游或没来得及走的务工人员。
Yuan Zhiqing found a lot of people stuck in Wuhan like him, joined the "stranded Wuhan non-resident" micro-group, which already has more than 230 residents, and told Caijing that about half came to Wuhan to visit relatives, while the other half came to change trains, traveled or left behind.
对于一些来探亲或是务工的滞留者，大多有落脚处，而像袁智清这样，在武汉举目无亲的滞留者，一时找不到住处，只能流落街头。
Yuan Zhiqing, an unaccompanied migrant worker in Wuhan, found no place to live and had to live on the street.
疫情持续蔓延，武汉所有部门几乎都在超负荷运转，城市资源有限，绝大部分可运营的酒店被政府临时接管或征用，用于医护人员的住宿和疑似病人的隔离，即使偶有空房间，也不接受客人预订。
The epidemic continues to spread, with almost all sectors in Wuhan overstretched, the city's resources limited, the vast majority of operational hotels temporarily taken over or requisitioned by the Government for the accommodation of medical staff and the isolation of suspected patients, and guests are not allowed to book even when there are occasional vacant rooms.
为了能够就近得到撤离信息，袁智清选择在武汉天河机场附近安置，1月24日，他和老婆住进机场附近的一个小旅馆，一天的房费68元，每天他们只能吃泡面或者饼干面包。
Yuan and his wife stayed at a small hotel near the airport on January 24. For 68 yuan a day, they could only eat noodles or bread biscuits.
2月6日，发生了一件离奇的事情，他一直放在包里的银行卡不见了。
On February 6, a strange thing happened. The bank card he had kept in his bag was missing.
“一直都是用微信支付，从来没把银行卡拿出来过，”袁智清也很疑惑，随后他又发现由于银行卡被冻结，微信支付也不能付款。
"Always paid by micromail, never taking out a bank card," Yuan said, puzzled, and then found that the bank card had been frozen, so he couldn't pay for it.
他身上还有一些现金，要留着给老婆家人发红包。
He still has some cash with him to save for his wife's family.
他也在计算，解封遥遥无期，之后还需要花钱吃饭，不能把钱都花在住宿上。
He is also calculating that unsealing is a distant prospect, after which he will have to pay for food and not spend all his money on accommodation.
2月6日，他和老婆开始流浪。
On 6 February, he and his wife began to wander.
他找到一个废弃的地下室，疫情期间也没人管理，他们就住在里面，白天的时候去街上找路边小店门口的电源给手机充电，然后在网上寻找可能的求助渠道。
He found an abandoned basement that nobody managed during the outbreak, and they lived in it, spending daylight hours on the streets looking for electricity in front of a roadside store to recharge his cell phone and then looking online for possible avenues of help.
他给一切能够找到的联系方式打电话，包括市长热线、各级政府部门、救助站、110等等，市长热线的回复是已经记录在案，等待通知，其他的要不就是回复称无能为力，要不就是给他另外一个联系方式，他打过去又被告知“无法解决”。
He called every contact he could find, including the mayor's hotline, government departments at all levels, help stations, 110, etc., and the mayor's hotline responded that it was on record, waiting to be notified, while others either responded that he was powerless or gave him another contact and was told that it was "insoluble."
2月10日，袁智清接到了电话通知，他可以在第二天入住武昌区的一个救助酒店。
On February 10, Yuan Zhiqing received a telephone call, he can be in Wuchang the next day to stay at a relief hotel.
酒店距离他所在的地方有50公里。
The hotel is 50 kilometers from where he is.
他们两个人已经筋疲力尽，不可能再拖着大包小包步行前往，他试着在路边拦车，一辆出租车停了下来，表示可以送过去，收费500元。
Exhausted, they could no longer walk around with their bags, he tried to stop by the side of the road, and a taxi stopped to say he could deliver it for 500 yuan.
特殊时期，他也能理解，不过出租车司机并未把他们送达目的地，在距离目的地还有5公里的武汉长江大桥就停车，称不能过桥，让他们下车自行前往。
But the taxi driver didn't get them to their destination. He stopped at the Wuhan Yangtze River Bridge, five kilometers from their destination, saying they could not cross the bridge and let them off to go there by themselves.
《财经》记者刘以秦 摄此时已经是深夜11点，袁智清带着老婆继续步行，夜晚的气温降得很低，还开始飘起小雨滴，他们走100米就要坐下歇一会儿。
"Caijing" reporter Liu Yicheng at this time is 11 o'clock in the night, Yuan Zhiqing and his wife continue to walk, the night temperature is very low, and began to float small raindrops, they walk 100 meters to sit down for a while.
一位好心的志愿者遇到了他们，询问情况后，愿意免费将他们送到救助站，并赠送了热食和牛奶。
A kind volunteer met them, asked questions, offered to send them free of charge to the rescue station, and gave them hot food and milk.
救助站酒店的工作人员表示，必须要等到第二天上午才能入住，该志愿者恳求工作人员让他们可以睡在酒店大堂里，并保证他们绝对没有发热的情况。
Staff at the hotel said they had to wait until the morning to check in, and the volunteer begged the staff to let them sleep in the lobby and make sure they had no fever.
《财经》记者刘以秦 摄2月11日的凌晨，袁智清终于在酒店大堂住下，他发了一条朋友圈，“我的生日礼物”，配图是志愿者送的食物，和他在武汉长江大桥上给老婆拍的一张照片。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 11, Yuan Zhiqing, a reporter for Caijing, finally stayed in the lobby of the hotel. He sent out a circle of friends, "My birthday gift," with food from volunteers and a photo of his wife on the Wuhan Yangtze Bridge.
袁智清是经由家人介绍，认识了现在的老婆，“她是个孤儿，身体也有一些缺陷，”他告诉《财经》记者，一开始他并不知情，知道后又放心不下，“她很善良，也很懂事。
Yuan Zhiqing was introduced by his family and met his wife. "She is an orphan and has some physical defects," he told Caijing.
”在武汉漂泊的这几天，他还专门教老婆认字，偶尔老婆也会闹情绪，有一些争吵，好在最大的困难已经过去，2月12日，他告诉《财经》记者，救助站还给他们发了水果。
During the days he spent wandering in Wuhan, he taught his wife how to read. Occasionally his wife would get upset and have some arguments, but the worst was over.
2月13日，《财经》记者问他，明天有什么计划吗？他说：“两个人在一起，就够了。
On Feb. 13, Caijing asked him if he had any plans for tomorrow.Just being together is enough, he said.
”分手武汉：“我不会再跟他联系了”如果时间倒流，黑龙江女生王晶如绝对不会选择来武汉。
Wuhan: "I will not contact him again." If time flows back, Wang Jing, a girl from Heilongjiang, would never choose to come to Wuhan.
1月1日，王晶如跟着武汉籍男友一起来武汉。
On January 1, Wang Jing came to Wuhan with her boyfriend of Wuhan nationality.
男友告诉她，可以在武汉多玩一段时间，过完年再回去，她答应了。
Boyfriend told her, can play in Wuhan for a while, after the New Year to go back, she agreed.
他们住在武昌区的一家酒店里，1月23日凌晨武汉宣布“封城”，她并没有注意到这条消息，直到当天下午才被朋友告知，已经不能走了。
They stayed in a hotel in Wuchang district. Wuhan declared the city closed in the early hours of January 23. She did not notice the news until her friends told her that she could not leave until that afternoon.
2月1日，她与男友发生了争吵，男友打了她，她从酒店楼梯上摔了下来，扭到了脚。
On February 1, she had an argument with her boyfriend, who beat her. She fell off the hotel stairs and sprained her foot.
她坚定地和男友分手了，并表示：再也不要联系。
She firmly broke up with her boyfriend, and said: never contact again.
她还立刻打110报警。
She also called the 110 police immediately.
对方告诉她，这种情况应该找妇联。
She was told that the situation should be referred to FMC.
她给妇联打电话，得到的回复是：“现在疫情真的很严重，我们都在一线做捐赠工作，确实现在没有余力。
She called the federation and got the response: "It's really serious right now, we're all working on the front line and we don't have the capacity.
”酒店老板担心她住在这里，男友会再上门找她麻烦，就帮她转移到了洪山区的另一家酒店。
Concerned that she lived there, her boyfriend would come to her house and help her move to another hotel in the Hongshan area.
住了2天后，她身上的钱花完了，父母也无法提供持续的经济援助，她也坚持不愿联系男友。
After two days of living, she ran out of money, her parents couldn't provide sustained financial aid, and she insisted she didn't want to contact her boyfriend.
过去几天，她也在持续拨打市长热线和救助站的电话，但都未能得到救助。
In the past few days, she has also continued to make calls to the mayor's hotline and to help stations, but has been unable to obtain help.
一位负责救助的政府工作人员告诉《财经》记者，由于资源实在有限，他们只能通过求助电话，筛选最困难的人群优先救助，“每天一个工作人员能接到上百个救助电话，我们确实没办法全部救助。
A government official in charge of rescuing Caijing told Caijing that because of limited resources, they had to use the help line to screen out the most vulnerable people. "A staff member can get hundreds of calls a day, and we really can't get all the help.
”特殊时期，一切都在超负荷运转，所有力量都集中起来，优先救助病人，共同抗击疫情。
During special periods, everything was overloaded, and all forces were concentrated, giving priority to patients and fighting the epidemic.
2020年2月14日比往年特殊，在无数依然相爱或曾经相爱的人眼里，只要能够平安，就是最好的庆祝。
February 14, 2020 is special compared to previous years, and in the eyes of millions of people who are still in love or have loved one another, peace is the best celebration.
相思武汉：“从来没有分开这么久”这是郭伟医生与新婚妻子胡芹分开的第25天，1月20日他们在湖北黄冈老家举办了婚礼，婚礼第二天，他就返回武汉值班，之后武汉“封城”，他们就再也没见过面。
Acacia Wuhan: "Never separated so long" This is Dr. Guo Wei and his new wife Hu Qin25, January 20, they held a wedding in Huanggang home, Huanggang on the next day, he returned to Wuhan on duty, after which Wuhan "closed the city," they never met again.
“我们认识4年了，以前没有分开超过一个星期。
"We've known each other for four years, not more than a week before.
”郭伟告诉《财经》记者。
"Guo Wei told Caijing.
妻子试图返回武汉陪他，但黄冈由于疫情严重，也全面封锁，人们连出门买东西都受限。
His wife tried to return to Wuhan to accompany him, but because of the severe outbreak and the complete closure of Huanggang, people were restricted from going out to buy things.
不过，就算胡芹能够回到武汉，他们也很难见面，一线的医生每天进出病房，不能回家。
But even if the celery were to return to Wuhan, it would be difficult for them to meet.
郭伟所在的医院是疫情期间第一批定点医院，自从开始收治发热病人，他就再也没有离开过医院，不值班时就住在医院对面的酒店里，随时响应。
Mr. Guo, whose hospital was one of the first to be admitted during the outbreak, has never left the hospital since he began treating febrile patients, living off duty in a hotel opposite the hospital, ready to respond.
妻子支持他，虽然每天担心他吃不好，睡不好，但“我知道这是他的职责。
His wife supported him, and though she worried every day that he could not eat well or sleep well, "I knew it was his job.
”除夕那天，胡芹发了一条朋友圈，写道：“武汉加油！你要平安。
"On New Year's Eve, the parsley issued a circle of friends, wrote:" Wuhan refueling! You want peace.
”郭伟自认为并不是一个浪漫的男人，但在疫情期间，他坚持每天给妻子发一句“爱你哦”。
Guo believes he is not a romantic man, but during the outbreak he insisted on giving his wife a "love you" every day.
“以前他都不会说这种话的。
'He never said such a thing before.
”胡芹告诉《财经》记者。
"Hu told Caijing.
有一天郭伟要进病房值班，但由于物资紧缺，医院分配给他的口罩并不符合医用标准，只是普通的防尘口罩，从病房出来以后，他很后怕。
One day Mr. Guo was on duty in the hospital room, but because of shortages, the mask he was given was not up to medical standards.
几天后，他感觉自己应该没事，还是告诉了妻子，并收获了一顿“痛骂”。
A few days later, he felt that he should be fine, or told his wife, and received a "scolding".
胡芹生气的原因不光是他的隐瞒，更多的是担心。
The reason why Hu Qinchai was angry was not only his concealment, but also his fear.
有一次，胡芹在新闻上看到他所在的医院所有的防护服都用光了，一下子慌了，打电话过去也打不通，“想帮助他们，但是什么都做不了，只能待在家里不添乱。
On one occasion, he saw on the news that his hospital had run out of all the protective clothing, suddenly panic, and could not make a phone call, "want to help them, but nothing can be done, only stay at home.
”疫情结束之后，想做的第一件事是什么？郭伟回答：“想一起去吃火锅，最好还能一起出去旅游。
"What is the first thing you want to do after the epidemic is over?" Guo Wei replied, "You'd better go to the hotpot together and travel together.
”《财经》记者又将这个问题发给胡芹，得到的回复是：“第一时间拥抱他，然后一起去吃火锅。
Caijing sent the question to celery, who replied, "Give him a hug and go to the hot pot together.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫时期的武汉爱情故事：有人在街头流浪，有人在异地相思。
Wuhan love story of the period of the epidemic: some people in the streets, someone in the other place Acacia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫时期的武汉爱情故事：有人在街头流浪，有人在异地相思";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情蔓延时，在无数依然相爱或曾经相爱的人眼里，只要能够平安，就是最好的庆祝";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; in the eyes of countless who still love or have loved.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
