疫情之下，那些隐忍而努力前行的普通人。
Amid the epidemic, the ordinary people who stand still and struggle on.
三联.CREATIVE。
Triple. CREATIVE.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
作为江西援鄂医疗队的一员，“田螺”第一次和新冠肺炎病人近距离接触，就是一场紧迫而危险的大抢救。
As a member of Jiangxi medical team, "Conch" first came into close contact with the patients with Newcomer Pneumonia, which is an urgent and dangerous rescue.
那是在武汉第五医院的重症监护室，一位病人的血氧饱和度骤然下降，造成呼吸困难，病人脸上虚汗连连，检测仪发出的刺耳警报声就像死神的倒计时，一场关乎生死的“赛跑”已经开始了。
In the intensive care unit of Wuhan Fifth Hospital, a patient's blood oxygen saturation drops sharply, resulting in breathlessness, sweating profusely on the patient's face, the screech of the detector sirens like death's countdown, and a "race" for life and death has begun.
此刻，唯一的选择是立刻为病人建立人工气道。
At the moment, the only option is to create an artificial airway for the patient immediately.
“田螺”带着防护面具就冲了上去，保护口唇、插入喉镜、上提喉镜、插入气管导管。
The snail, wearing a protective mask, rushed up to protect her mouth, insert her laryngoscope, lift her laryngoscope, and insert the trachea catheter.
一系列娴熟的动作之后，气管插管完成，随着屏幕上血氧饱和度的逐渐上升，病人脱离了生命危险。
After a series of skilful maneuvers, the trachea cannula was completed and the patient's life was saved as the blood oxygen saturation on the screen rose gradually.
这时候，“田螺”才突然感到后怕，心肝脾肺顿时全揪在了一起。
At this time, "snail" just suddenly feel fear, heart, liver, spleen and lungs all pulled together.
在抢救新冠患者的过程中，气管插管是最危险的一个环节，因为医生必须要近距离面对患者敞开的、不断喷涌出病毒的呼吸道。
Trachea intubation is one of the most dangerous aspects of resuscitation in patients with the new crown, as doctors have to face up to the open, constantly gushing airways of patients.
“我不会中奖吧？”这个念头在非传染病专业的他心中徘徊了至少十分钟。
"I'm not going to win the prize, am I?" The idea lingered in his mind for at least 10 minutes.
01江西省援鄂医疗队医生 “田螺”“ 武汉，我们来了！把时间拨回到大年初二，本打算在初四与异地相恋的女朋友在杭州见面的“田螺”临时接到通知，成为了江西援鄂医疗队的一员。
01 Jiangxi Province medical team doctor "field snail," "Wuhan, we have come!" The time dial back to the second year of the New Year, originally intended to meet the girl friend in Hangzhou, Xiangxi Province on the fourth day of the "Conch" temporarily received notification, became a member of Jiangxi medical team.
他没时间安抚家人，次日便直奔武汉。
He had no time to placate his family and went straight to Wuhan the next day.
尽管原计划中初四的见面他期盼已久，尽管这是这对异地恋人一年中少有的欢聚时光。
Although he had been looking forward to meeting him on the fourth day of the year, it was one of the few times in a year when the two lovers had met.
当“田螺”和其他137名医护人员落地武汉的第一刻，便感受到了疫情前线的严峻气氛。
When "Conch" and 137 other medical personnel landed in Wuhan the first moment, it felt the severe atmosphere on the front line of the epidemic.
作为平日里运送旅客近四万，中国吞吐量排名第十四位的机场，彼时的天河航站楼，除了他们与地勤人员外，竟一个旅客都没有。
As the 14th-largest airport in China, carrying nearly 40,000 passengers on weekdays, Tianhe Terminal had no passengers except them and ground staff.
前来接机的武汉市第五医院院长向江西队乘坐的三辆大巴车分别都深深鞠了一躬。
The director of Wuhan Fifth Hospital, who had come to pick up the plane, bowed deeply to each of the three buses that Jiangxi was riding.
“看得出，他几乎要哭了。
"I can see he's on the verge of tears.
”“田螺”当时并不清楚这位院长如此激动的原因。
"The reasons why the dean was so excited were not clear at the time.
直到经过一天的个人防疫培训和短暂交流，带着忐忑的心情，正式接管武汉市五院的ICU病区时，这才明白，五院重症监护室医生的工作量已达到平日的六到九倍，濒临“爆表”，剩下的五名医生中还包括56岁的老主任。
Until after a day of personal vaccination training and brief exchanges, with a perturbed mood, Wuhan City five hospital ICU patients, understand that the five hospital intensive care unit doctors have reached the normal workload of six to nine times, near the "explosion meter," the remaining five doctors including the 56-year-old director.
躺在病房里的病人们神色各异，淡定、痛苦、惊恐……“田螺”知道，当一个个普通、脆弱、无力的生命面对未知的命运安排时，任何语言都显得苍白至极。
The patients in the ward looked different, calm, miserable, frightened... "The Conch" knew that any language was pale when an ordinary, fragile, powerless life was faced with an unknown destiny.
他是来救命的，救病人的命，救医院的命。
He's here to save lives, to save patients, to save hospitals.
江西援鄂队的到来，给武汉市五院的医生带来了一线曙光，似乎连病人都看到了转机。
The arrival of Jiangxi UE team brought a glimmer of light to the doctors of WuHan hospital, even the patients seemed to see a turning point.
当“田螺”第一次走进重症监护室时，一位连着呼吸机，病情危重到无法说话的大叔，艰难地对他竖起了大拇指。
When Conch first walked into the intensive care unit, a man with a ventilator attached to him was so critical that he could not speak and gave him a thumbs-up.
△ 病情危重的患者，听说是援助队来了，艰难地对“田螺”竖起大拇指与此同时，各地的援助物资也正在慢慢到位，包括蔚来车友会的车友们捐献的大量医疗物资。
The critically ill patient, heard that the rescue team had arrived and was struggling to give the thumbs-up to the conch. Meanwhile, aid was slowly arriving from all over the country, including a large amount of medical supplies donated by friends of the Association of Automobiles.
“田螺”在“蔚来社区”发布的《援鄂笔记》让他无意中成为对接车友会和医院的联络员，为全国联动中添了一条发着微光的用户链。
"Zoo Notes" published in the "Ultimate Community" so that he inadvertently docked the Alumni Association and the hospital liaison, adding a light user chain to the national link.
如同鲁迅先生所说：“有一分热，发一分光。
As Mr. Lu Xun said: "There is a heat, a light.
就令萤火一般，也可以在黑暗里发一点光，不必等候火炬。
On the general firefly, can also send a little light in the dark, do not wait for the torch.
”今天是“田螺”作为援鄂医疗队队员在一线奋战的第25天，这25天里，他经历了从惶恐不安到坦然面对、从忐忑焦虑到冷静决绝的转变。
"It was the 25th day of the field trip as a member of the medical team E-E, a 25-day transition from fear to calm, from apprehension to anxiety and dispassion.
他在《援鄂笔记》中写下：“现在像极了勇猛的战士，每一次出征，都必须凯旋。
He wrote in his Notes to E E: "Now like a warrior of valor, every battle must be won.
”△ “田螺”和战友们抢救成功的第一位患者转出重症病房按照老主任的建议，“田螺”在工作时会穿上纸尿裤。
"After a" cooling off "period, the first patient to be rescued from the intensive care unit was transferred from the intensive care unit.
然而，这并不意味着万事大吉，最初由于感觉尴尬，他怎么也尿不出来，等到实在憋不住的那一刻，心里又有种说不出的滋味。
However, this does not mean that all is well, at first because of feeling embarrassed, he can not urinate, until the moment is really suffocating, the heart has a kind of speechless taste.
抗疫战场上有危险，也有温情。
There is danger and tenderness in the battle against the plague.
最初的几天，除了要面对心理上的压力，“田螺”还要面对来自生活习惯和地域差异的困扰。
The first few days, in addition to the psychological pressure, "Conch" has to face from the lifestyle and regional differences.
当地医院得知他们不习惯武汉的饮食后，特地准备了辣椒酱，希望帮助他们寻找家乡的味道。
The local hospital learned that they were not used to Wuhan's diet, specially prepared chilli sauce, hoping to help them find the taste of home.
此外，武汉人说方言，最初和患者沟通只能连蒙带猜，不过慢慢习惯之后，“田螺”与患者、当地医生也逐渐产生了默契。
In addition, Wuhan people speak dialects, and the initial communication with the patients can only take a guess, but slowly get used to, "Conch" and patients, local doctors have gradually become tacit understanding.
交接班时，交班的人说：“我现在又饿又累。
As the shift passed on, the shift hands said, "I am hungry and tired.
”，接班的人会接一句：“还尿急”，大家很有默契的笑起来。
", the successor will answer:" Urging urgent, "everyone has a tacit understanding to laugh.
每天下班脱下太空服般的防护设备，从没觉得氧气是如此新鲜的“田螺”，会把他在街头看到的风景、在医院感受到的变化更新到《援鄂笔记》中。
Taking off his spacesuit-like protective gear from work every day, he never felt that oxygen was such a fresh "snail," updating his notes on the sights he saw on the street and the changes he felt in the hospital.
回驻地、经过汉阳大道的街口时，他会逗留一会。
He would stop for a while when he returned to his post and passed the corner of Hanyang Boulevard.
那是一种暴风眼中的平静，在一刻钟内，一共只有三辆汽车，五辆自行车和六个行人经过。
It was calm in the eye of the storm, and in a quarter of an hour there were only three cars, five bicycles, and six passers-by.
驻地门口的保安大叔告诉他，这条街从前车水马龙，热闹的不得了。
The guard at the gate told him that the street used to be crowded and bustling.
他的帖子让我们身临其境地感受到来自抗疫一线的压迫、紧张与希冀。
His posts let us experience the first line of oppression, tension and hope from the epidemic.
△ 汉阳大道上往日的喧嚣，此刻被病毒藏的严严实实在前几天的一篇《援鄂笔记》中，“田螺”记录下一次特殊的经历。
The tumult of the past on Hanyang promenade is now covered by a virus. In a recent E-E note, Tian She recorded her next special experience.
在连续吃了两包泡面之后，他突然犯牙痛，在这个节骨眼上，为了配合防疫工作，武汉所有的口腔科门诊全部停业（口腔科病人可能产生大量飞沫，属高危人群）。
After eating two packs of noodles in a row, he suddenly developed a toothache. At this juncture, all stomatological clinics in Wuhan were shut down as part of the vaccination campaign (oral patients may produce droplets in high-risk groups).
一开始还能忍着，但俗话说“牙疼不是病，疼起来要人命”，在他最绝望的时候，武汉第一口腔医院主动联系到他，并为他开设了绿色通道。
At first he was able to endure, but as the saying goes, "toothache is not a disease, pain to life," when he was most desperate, Wuhan first oral hospital contact him, and opened a green passage for him.
除了来自战友们的关怀，在活跃着3万多蔚来用户的“蔚来社区”里，“田螺”每天也收到众多关心与鼓励。
In addition to the care from comrades-in-arms, "Conch" receives a lot of attention and encouragement every day in the "Ulli community" where more than 30, 000 users are active.
“平安回来”“看到你的更新，心里踏实多了。
"" Come back safe. "" It's a lot easier to see your updates.
保护好自己，才能帮助别人！”“等疫情过去了，请您务必发一张凯旋的照片，加油。
Protect yourself before you can help others.When the epidemic is over, please make sure you send a photo of the triumph.
另外私信我一个地址，我给你发一箱羊肉过去。
Also believe me an address. I'll send you a case of mutton.
”这让身处异乡的“田螺”顿感亲切与温暖，并从中汲取着力量，继续前行。
This makes the "snail" in a foreign country feel kind and warm, and draw strength from it, continue to move on.
02疫情心理援助志愿者 高燕“ 听不到却压垮人的内心哭声在前线奋战的过程中，“田螺”发现，病毒自然是当前的劲敌，而因疫情所引发的心理问题，则是另一种看不见的敌人。
02 Outbreak Psychological Assistance Volunteer Gao Yan "could not hear but crushed the hearts of the people cry During the battle on the front line," Conch "found that the virus is the current enemy, and the psychological problems caused by the outbreak are another invisible enemy.
在五院成为疫情定点医院的当天，已经连续奋战了五天五夜的急诊科主任，面对激增至一千四百余人次、几近瘫痪的急诊科，带着哭腔“咆哮”着，“难道我们不想活，我们不想回家过年吗？”一位因排队超过四小时而崩溃的病人，将一大把现金撒在了大厅，瘫坐在地上，“命都没了，还要钱干什么！”“田螺”也要面对家人为其担忧的“责问”、因压力引发的牙髓炎，和竭尽全力却没能从死神手里抢回某位病人的挫败。
"We don't want to live, we don't want to go home for the New Year," cried the head of the emergency department, who had been fighting for five days and five nights on the day of the outbreak.
《援鄂笔记》是他聚力的“火源”，“蔚来社区”成了倾述的“树洞”，将自己看到的、听到的、想到的，说与素不相识的朋友。
"E E E note" is the cohesive force of the "fire source," "Wei Lai community" has become the "tree hole," see themselves, hear, think, and say with unknown friends.
同是蔚来用户、身为心理服务从业者的高燕，更切身感受到了疫情漩涡中的心理援助缺口。
Also is the user, is the psychological service practitioner Gao Yan, has experienced the epidemic vortex in the psychological assistance gap.
高燕是武汉人，眼见一位医生同学在疫情一线搏斗了半个多月，他每天上班前，要在停车场做很久心理斗争，然后在同学群里面说一句“同志们，我又要上去了”再走进病房，下班后再报声平安——“我没事，今天还好！”。
Gao Yan, a Wuhan native, saw a doctor fighting the epidemic for more than half a month. Before he went to work, he had to fight for a long time in the parking lot.
另一位同学也发来求助，其同事是疑似患者，低烧不断，孩子又小，老公还没有赶回武汉，只要看到与疫情有关的新闻，就焦虑得流泪不止。
Another student also sent help, his colleagues are suspected patients, low-fever, small children, husband has not returned to Wuhan, as long as the news related to the epidemic, anxious tears.
疫情中的心理健康与身体健康同等重要，都是抵抗病毒的保护伞。
Mental health in an epidemic is as important as physical health and is an umbrella against the virus.
中国科学院心理研究所的研究员高文斌指出，“有些病人症状的加重或者说是不稳定，跟他的情绪状态关系很大。
Gao Wenbin, a researcher at the Institute of Psychology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, points out that "the aggravation or instability of some patients is closely related to his emotional state.
”封城当天，高燕立刻着手联系心理咨询师，组建心理关怀志愿者小组。
On the same day, Gao Yan immediately contacted a psychologist to form a team of volunteers for psychological care.
与此同时，她还借助“蔚来社区”内的国际资源，聚集车友力量，虽然困难重重，但从海外采购抗疫物资的工作一刻也没有停滞，蔚来在美国和德国属地公司也参与协助物资的采购和转运流程。
At the same time, she has drawn on the international resources within the "Ullois Community" to gather the strength of her fellow travellers. Despite the difficulties, the procurement of anti-epidemic materials from overseas has not stalled for a moment, and has become involved in facilitating the procurement and transit process in the United States and the German dependent territories.
高燕说，“咨询师同道的支持和温暖、那么多陌生人自发凝聚在一起对疫区的援助，这些对我都是正向的激励。
'Counselors' support and warmth, so many strangers coming together spontaneously to help the affected areas are positive incentives for me, 'Ms. Gao said.
”△ 聚集蔚来武汉车友会的力量，为武汉医院捐赠物资1月24日，高燕组织的心理关怀志愿者小组正式上线，她说：“心理援助可以提供陪伴、倾听、科普，给与一定的稳定化技术。
"Psychological assistance can provide companionship, listening, popularization and stabilization techniques," Gao Yan's team of volunteers for psychological care formally went online on January 24.
让求助者能够表达和倾诉自己内在混乱的情绪，我们通过倾听和有温度的共情，使求助者缓解焦虑、情绪稳定和提供信息支持。
By allowing the requester to express and speak out about our inner turmoil, we can help soothe anxiety, emotional stability, and provide information support through listening and warm empathy.
”团队成立之初即制定了服务流程，工作机制。
The team developed service processes and working mechanisms from the start of the team.
小组内也可以获得重要的同辈支持、督导支持和有效的应急机制。
Important peer support, supervisory support and effective emergency response mechanisms are also available within the team.
△ 高燕和团队为寻求心理疏导的求助者提供帮助心理关怀之路并不平坦，琐碎的问题渐次而来。
Gao Yan and the team for psychological counseling to seek help for the help of the psychological care road is not smooth, trivial problems gradually come.
比如一线的医护人员下班多半接近午夜，而此时国内的咨询师可能已经休息。
First-line health care workers, for example, are mostly close to midnight, when domestic consultants may be off duty.
高燕参与的 “用心抗疫”志愿者团队联合“ACHPPI members”（国际华人心理与援助专业协会）的志愿者团队发动美国、加拿大等地的华人心理援助志愿者们，利用时差，提供了24小时无间断的心理援助服务。
A team of volunteers from the "Heart Against Plague" team of Gao Yan joined forces with "ACHPPI members" (International Association of Chinese Psychology and Aid Professionals) to mobilize volunteers from the United States, Canada and other places to provide round-the-clock psychological assistance services around the clock.
一位武汉大学毕业的志愿者则免费提供了自己开发的热线程序，解决了求助者和海外咨询师在沟通上的技术问题。
A volunteer who graduated from Wuhan University provided a hotline program developed by himself free of charge to solve technical problems in communication between clients and overseas consultants.
另外，很多医护人员为了减少防护服的使用，在病房内竭尽全力地坚持十几个小时，于是高燕的团队增加了图文自助式的指导和用来倾诉的“文字树洞”，随后一周还有每晚的心理关怀音频上线。
To reduce the use of protective clothing, many health care workers in the ward for more than 10 hours, so Gao Yan's team added text self-help guidance and used to talk "word hole", followed by a nightly psychological care audio line.
方便医护人员随时通过微信、心理援助电话等渠道获得一定的安慰和鼓励。
Convenient medical personnel at any time through micro-letter, psychological assistance telephone channels to get a certain degree of comfort and encouragement.
随着疫情时间的拉长，寻求心理关怀与援助的人越来越多：一位护士的同事一家四口，有两人确诊住进了隔离病房，剩下丈夫和两岁多的孩子。
As the epidemic lengthened, more and more people sought psychological care and assistance: one nurse worked with a family of four, and two were admitted to the isolation ward, leaving her husband and his two-year-old child.
现在，丈夫也出现了咳嗽发烧的症状。
Now, the husband also has cough and fever symptoms.
“娃娃该怎么办呀？”护士哭得停不下来。
"What should I do with the doll?" The nurse couldn't stop crying.
一位医护人员怀孕不久，丈夫和婆婆都回了老家，她留在武汉一线工作。
A medical worker pregnant soon, her husband and mother-in-law returned to her hometown, she stayed in Wuhan to work.
上完夜班，肚子莫名剧痛。
After the night shift, my stomach hurts.
艰难地走下了楼，却一直打不到车去医院，忍不住嚎啕大哭。
He trudged down the stairs, but couldn't catch the bus to the hospital. He burst into tears.
峰值时期，一天可以接到四个以上求助，耳边都是求助者的焦虑、哀伤、愤怒、迷惘和哭泣。
At its peak, more than four requests for help can be heard a day, and the ears are filled with anxiety, grief, anger, bewilderment and weeping.
很多心理关怀志愿者每天至少工作四个小时，做“分诊”的小助手们则已经接待了数千人次。
Many mental-care volunteers work at least four hours a day, and "referral" assistants have received thousands of visits.
“凌晨两三点忙完物资对接，不到八点就要起来继续工作。
"Two or three in the morning after the material docking, before eight to get up to continue work.
”虽然生物钟被完全打乱，但身处疫情求助的漩涡中，高燕保持着对压力和情绪的冷静认识，“很清晰的明白自己这也是应激状态，我会用些心理学的放松或者正念自我调节。
Despite the complete disruption of her biological clock, Gao maintained a cool sense of stress and emotion in the whirlpool of the epidemic, "clearly aware that this is stress, and I will use some psychological relaxation or mindfulness to regulate myself."
既然睡不着就多做点力所能及的事，保持自己的信息通道畅通的同时多关注正向资源，能给周围人哪怕一点点帮助也能提升自己的价值感。
Since you can't sleep, do what you can to keep your information flow open and focus on positive resources, which can help people around you feel more valuable.
”同时，调动身边的资源，“我的家人，特别是孩子们纯真的笑脸，就是我在疫情中的温暖和支持！“在谈及心理关怀志愿者工作时，高燕说，“心理关怀志愿者就像露水，很小的一滴，在黑夜中滋润还未被阳光照耀的人。
"At the same time, mobilize the resources around me," my family, especially the innocent smiling faces of the children, is my warmth and support in the epidemic! "Gao Yan, referring to the work of volunteers for psychological care, said:" Psychosocial volunteers are like dew, a tiny drop of water in the dark that has not yet been watered by the sun.
当阳光照耀过来，露水就消失了。
When the sun shone, the dew disappeared.
希望现实的阴霾，不掩每个人心中的阳光。
Hope the haze of reality, does not cover everyone's heart sunshine.
”03“ 即使微弱，也请尽情闪烁米兰昆德拉说，“对不朽来说，有小的不朽和大的不朽。
"03" Even faint, flashing Milan Kundera says, "For immortality, there is little immortality and great immortality.
小的不朽是指一个人在认识他的人的心中留下回忆；大的不朽是指一个人在不认识的人的心中留下回忆。
A little immortality is the remembrance of a man who knows him; a great immortality is the remembrance of a man who does not know him.
”而不朽总是遥相呼应、不断共振的。
Immortality always echoes and resonates.
“蔚来社区”悄然成为疫情中一个散发微光的聚力平台。
The "Wei-lai community" has quietly become a cohesive platform for shimmering light in the epidemic.
“田螺”在《援鄂笔记》里说，“不只是买了一台车”，“像回到了温暖的家”。
"It's not just buying a car," "It's like coming back to a warm home," the snail said in the E-E Notes.
与带来不可预期社交压力的全开放环境相比，“蔚来社区”所汇集的、具有相同脉搏的用户，在疫情重压之下，激发出全新情感链条的力量。
In contrast to an all-open environment that creates unpredictable social stress, the "Ultimate Community" brings together users with the same pulse, who, under the weight of the epidemic, unleash a whole new chain of emotions.
越来越多的蔚来用户用行动在凝结和强化这条崭新的情感联接。
More and more users are using their actions to condense and reinforce this new emotional connection.
人性有自身的弱，也有着自身的强。
Human nature has its own weakness as well as its own strength.
有人通过“蔚来社区”“报平安”、告诉朋友们一线的真实情况；有人则通过社区暂时从高压中抽离；有人在获得车友不间断的抚慰与支持；更有人像“田螺”医生和心理援助志愿者高燕一样，加入到看似平凡但散发着微光的行动中来。
Some tell their friends the truth by telling them the truth; others pull away temporarily from high pressure through the community; some receive constant reassurance and support from fellow motorists; and others join the seemingly mundane but shimmering action of Gao Yan, a conch doctor and psychological aid volunteer.
在“蔚来社区”上，有着很多让人念念不忘的“抗疫”行动，虽然是只言片语。
In the "Ulla community", there are many people remember the "anti-epidemic" action, although only a fragment.
有热烈的。
There was enthusiasm.
一位叫做 @浅草寺主持 的蔚来用户，说“虽不能去一线援建病房，也不能逆行去挽救感染者生命，但能走进献血屋献热血，用点滴爱心汇聚成磅礴力量抗击冠状病毒”。
"Although you can not go to the front-line building ward, nor retrograde to save the lives of infected people, but can enter the blood donation house to sacrifice blood, with a little love gathered into the great power to fight coronavirus.
有坚持的。
There are persistent.
蔚来用户 @赵京 在火车站测温值班，坚守岗位，严查死守。
Wei users @ Zhaojing in the railway station on duty temperature, tenacious position, strictly check the death guard.
一位叫做 @BN-巧克力hj 的蔚来用户风趣地说，“身为新进社区工作人员的我，每天早上八点就到岗上班”。
A user called @ BN-chocolate hj says wittily: "As a new community worker, I get to work at 8 a.m. every morning."
有伸出援手的。
There's a helping hand.
蔚来用户 @张凯2701 在高速口执勤，遇到一辆满载10吨生猪肉的货车忽然坏掉，和另一位蔚来用户 @方道平 一起，开着蔚来硬是把货车拉出了高速口。
On duty at the high-speed entrance @ Zhang Kai 2701, a lorry full of 10 tons of raw pork suddenly broke down and drove the truck out of the highway with another Ultimate user @ Fang Daoping.
有暖人心扉的。
There's warm hearts.
蔚来用户 @喜剧_ 联系买到一万斤蔬菜，开着自己的ES8拖着平板车捐送到社区。
User @ Comedy _ Contact buys 10,000 kilos of vegetables and donates them to the community in his ES8.
在“蔚来社区”上，每个人看到的是疫情之下的生活本身，和发着微光的每位蔚来用户。
In the "Ultimate Community," everyone sees life itself under the epidemic, and each and every one of the users with a shimmering light.
有时，蔚来用户还带动家人一起行动。
Sometimes the user brings the family together.
当一位孕妇向高燕求助，她的小孩刚过一岁，而先生则确诊入院。
When a pregnant woman asked Gao Yan for help, her child was just over a year old, and Mr.
求助者哭着说，“家里没有奶粉，网上也断运。
"There is no milk powder at home," cried the caller, "and the Internet is dead.
” 高燕在电话里为求助者提供心理关怀，同时让自己的丈夫去买奶粉并送到求助者家里。
Gao provided psychological care for the caller and asked her husband to buy the milk and deliver it to the sufferer's home.
高燕的丈夫穿着两层一次性雨衣当防护服，戴了一个潜水眼镜当护目镜，戴了三层头套、两层口罩，出门了。
Gao Yan's husband, wearing a two-tier raincoat as a protective suit, diving glasses as goggles, a three-tiered hood and a two-storey mask, went out.
疫情之中，“蔚来社区”迅速连接起一盏又一盏的微光，闪烁在那些熟悉或陌生的需要帮助的人身边。
In the midst of the epidemic, the "Ultimate Community" quickly connects one shimmering light after another, flashing around familiar or unfamiliar people in need.
“就是觉得时间不够用，连续几天都是两三点睡，早上八点不到就得起。
"I just don't think I have enough time. I sleep two or three in a row and I get up before eight in the morning.
”面对扑面而来的海量信息、救助者的负面情绪，处在漩涡中心的高燕承担着巨大的压力。
In the face of the flood of information and the negative emotions of the rescuers, the swallow at the center of the whirlpool bears the brunt.
心理援助“有时是治愈，经常是帮助，总是去安慰”，自我关怀和短暂休整后，她还在坚持——“如果你愿意，可以跟我聊聊”。
Psychological assistance "is sometimes healing, often helpful, always comforting," and after self-care and a brief respite, she still insists - "Talk to me if you want."
“用我的方式去帮助他们，越是艰难越要坚强，因为我相信，没有一个寒冬不可逾越，没有一个盛夏不会到来”。
"To help them in my way, the harder it is, the stronger it is, for I believe that no winter is insurmountable and no summer is impossible."
“田螺”在《援鄂笔记》中开心而自豪地写到，“我们的成果是明显的，当我再次以志愿者身份来到急诊科时，眼前的场景足以抚慰我们这些天的付出。
"Our results are clear," the snail writes happily and proudly in E E Note. "When I come to the emergency department again as a volunteer, the scene is enough to soothe our pain these days.
疯狂的病魔不再肆虐，半个月前还拥挤的急诊大厅如今恢复了宁静，输液间里也没有了当日那些痛苦悲伤的面孔。
The frenzied disease no longer raged, and the emergency room, which had been crowded half a month earlier, was now quiet and free of the anguished and sad faces of the day.
我想，这就是我们的成就，这将是我们一生的荣耀。
This, I think, is our achievement, and it will be the glory of our lives.
”当很多人给“田螺”点赞、觉得他是个英雄时，他说，“其实对我来讲，英不英雄都无所谓，能够帮助到他们那才是真的。
"When a lot of people praised Snail and thought he was a hero, he said," It really doesn't matter to me that the English are not heroes.
”（图片由受访者提供）策划：三联.CREATIVE监制：李雨旋微信编辑/设计排版：李木李作者：南子⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
"(Photo provided by the interviewee) Planning: triple play. CREATIVE executive producer: Li Yuexiu micro-letter editing / design typesetting. Author: Li Mu Li The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情之下，那些隐忍而努力前行的普通人。
Amid the epidemic, the ordinary people who stand still and struggle on.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情之下，那些隐忍而努力前行的普通人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; ordinary & quot; who & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "发着微光的不朽，即使微弱，也请尽情闪烁。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with a shimmer of immortality, please shine as faintly as possible.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
