陌路他乡——返京租客的四天三夜。
Defamiliarization - four days and three nights for Beijing renters.
邓郁。
Tang Yu.
南方人物周刊                      。
Southern Character Week.
南方人物周刊。
Southern Character Week.
因为交通便利、价格低廉，北七家一直是京西北打工族租房的热门之选。
Because of the convenient transportation and low price, the seven north-west workers have been the hot choice of renting houses.
然而今年，大批回到北京返工的租客发现：他们似乎回不去了武大法学院教授秦前红：小区（村民）自治不能毫无边界，居住权与财产权不得侵犯本文首发于南方人物周刊文、图| 本刊记者 邓郁 发自北京  实习记者 苏碧滢 王佳薇 包莉婷 宫健子 许多编辑|周建平蒯乐昊全文约7267字，细读大约需要16分钟2月1日东三旗村中街口岗亭，工作人员在给村民测量体温“病毒感染发生扩散的风险加大。
However, this year, a large number of renters returning to Beijing to rework have found that they appear unable to return to Qinqianhong, a professor at Wu University Law School: Community autonomy cannot be without boundaries. Residence and property rights must not be violated.
”1月29日，北京市疾病预防控制中心副主任庞星火在介绍北京市疫情发展时说。
On January 29, Pong Xinghua, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said of the outbreak in Beijing.
同一天夜里，微博上曝出消息，外地返京租客抵京后无法入住。
The same night, micro-blogging on the news, foreign tenants back to Beijing after the arrival of no occupancy.
“要求自行隔离14天、出具身体健康证明才能回家”。
"Self-imposed isolation for 14 days and a certificate of good health are required to return home."
已经到达北京的租客有家难归、房租难退，还要额外付出高昂的酒店住宿费。
Tenants who have arrived in Beijing have difficulty returning home, paying a rent rebate and paying a hefty premium for hotel accommodation.
本刊记者调查走访，上述现象在“人口倒挂”现象较为突出的北七家镇最为集中。
This print journalist inquires to visit, afore-mentioned phenomenon is in "population inversion" phenomenon is more outstanding in the north 7 towns centralize.
“慌乱中，我买了自己从没买过的软卧车票”1月30日上午，还在苏州和家人一块过年的辛梁，收到房东的信息，“别回来了，不让进村，都到宾馆隔离”，心里惴惴不安。
"In my panic, I bought a soft sleeper ticket I had never bought before." On the morning of January 30th, I was in Suzhou with my family for the Spring Festival.
但她又陆续看到网上各种消息，“只要登记，自我隔离14天，就可以进”。
But she continues to see a variety of online news, "as long as the registration, self-isolation for 14 days, can enter."
咬咬牙，抱着一丝侥幸上了高铁。
He gritted his teeth and got on the high-speed train with a slight fluke.
“早出来早隔离。
"Come out early and segregate early.
我们这种打工的，不上班就意味着没收入。
A part-time worker like us who doesn't work means no income.
”在互联网行业工作的辛梁说。
"said Mr. Xinliang, who works in the Internet industry.
当晚10点半，拉着沉沉的行李箱，辛梁从北京南站回到东三旗村，发现这条两公里的主路两边的小路都用铁栅栏封住了。
At 10: 30 that evening, pulling the heavy suitcase, Xinliang returned from the Beijing South Station to the village of Dongsanqi and found that the two-kilometer main road was blocked by an iron fence.
唯一开放的中街口岗亭亮着灯，围了一堆人。
The only open Zhongjiekou guardhouse was lit and surrounded by people.
“他们说必须隔离14天，还要开健康证明。
"They said they had to be quarantined for 14 days and a medical certificate.
有人打了110、12345热线，那边的回复说一直在解决，需要等。
Someone called the 110th, 12345 hotline, the other side of the response said that has been solved, need to wait.
房东也无奈，又要执行村里的规定，又考虑到我们为难。
Landlord also helpless, want to implement the regulation of the village again, consider our dilemma.
”听租客和村里人争执了近一个小时，辛梁又冷又饿。
After listening to the tenants and the villagers arguing for almost an hour, Xinliang was cold and hungry.
到了半夜，还是没有结果。
In the middle of the night, there was no result.
心中那一丝侥幸被浇得透凉。
A glimmer of luck in the heart was watered down.
辛梁不想再等待，也不忍心打搅在北京的朋友，速速在网上找了家几公里外的快捷酒店住下。
Not wanting to wait any longer, Xinliang couldn't bear to disturb her friends in Beijing, so she quickly found a fast-track hotel to stay a few kilometers away.
“不敢住村口的宾馆，条件不好。
"Dare not live in the village mouth of the hotel, conditions are not good.
再说，你知道是些什么人住呢？”比辛梁晚一天出发的姬扬，怀着同样的忐忑坐上了卧铺。
Besides, who do you know who lives in? "Bixin Liang set out a day later, with the same perturbed sat on the berth.
他租住的是宏福苑青年公寓北楼。
He rents the North Building of Hongfuyuan Youth Apartment.
出发前，他打过12345热线，对方登记在案后，他接到了平西府村委的电话。
Prior to his departure, he had made a telephone call to the 12345 hotline and, upon registration, he had received a call from the village council in Pingsi Province.
“给我说，外地返京人员不能回来。
"Tell me, the expatriates can't come back.
回来就自己隔离14天。
Come back and isolate yourself for 14 days.
证明是按照你的车票开始算。
The proof starts with your ticket.
但我怎么才算隔离没问题呢？他们说测量体温，没有症状就可以。
But how am I supposed to isolate it? They say the temperature is measured without symptoms.
我说，我2月3日就要上班了。
I said I had to go to work on February 3.
他说那你自己想办法。
He said you'd figure something out for yourself.
请不了假，我们可以帮你请。
No vacation. We can buy it for you.
”2月1日，在北七家镇平西府村口边，等待入村无果的租户们姬扬还是想冒把险。
On February 1, at the entrance to Pingxi Prefecture in seven northern townships, tenants waiting to enter the village without success tried to take risks.
也许回来后有松动呢？在互联网公司负责管理货物的他给自己的预案是：实在不行就住海淀的仓库。
Perhaps there is loose after coming back? In the Internet company responsible for the management of the goods he gave his own plan is: no way to live in the Haidian warehouse.
“里头有个旧床垫，全是灰尘也不管了，好歹可以打个地铺。
"There's an old mattress in there. It's all dusty, and I can lay it down somehow.
再不行，就睡麦当劳肯德基。
No more. KFC at McDonalds.
”参考网友们的建议，他没有带行李箱，背着一个45L容量的双肩包，塞满了压缩饼干、苏打饼干、泡面火腿肠和榨菜——“够15天吃”。
"He didn't carry a suitcase and carried a 45L backpack full of compressed biscuits, soda biscuits, sausages and lettuce --" enough for 15 days, "according to netizens.
姬扬在回京前采购的干粮和他的双肩包他让妻子待在抚顺老家，自己先行出发。
Ji Yang in Beijing before the purchase of dry grain and his shoulder bag he let his wife stay in Fushun hometown, his own first.
“我一个人可以住麦当劳，甚至翻墙进公寓。
"I can live alone at McDonald's and even climb walls into apartments.
两人就不方便了。
It's inconvenient for both of us.
”因为慌乱，姬扬没注意到自己买的是从没买过的软卧车厢票。
"In a panic, Vicky didn't notice that she had bought a soft-berth ticket that she had never bought.
那一夜，车厢冷冷清清，他住的车厢本就他一个。
That night the carriage was deserted, and he was alone in it.
隔壁的一家三口，男人和小孩咳嗽不止，姬扬不敢开门。
Next door, the family of three, men and children coughing, Ji Yang dare not open the door.
到半夜，才有个大学生模样的男孩进来，但两人都很谨慎，一夜无话。
In the middle of the night, a college-like boy came in, but both of them were cautious and speechless all night.
辗转反侧的夜晚，他最惦记的是养了四年多的猫拉菲。
Tossing and turning night, he is most concerned about the four-year-old cat, Rafe.
这只黏人的猫，第一次和姬扬分离10天之久。
The slimy cat was separated from Vicky for 10 days for the first time.
“我本来给它留了10天左右的食物和水。
"I left him about 10 days of food and water.
要是隔离14天，它就必死无疑。
If it's isolated for 14 days, it's dead.
我想求物业给我照看一下。
I'd like to ask the property to look after me.
但是物业说他们也没人手，其他邻居我也不认识……”1月31日，北京某商店门口的告示“一刀切”的村口现场1月29日夜里9点52分，微博ID为“最后一颗布洛芬”的网友发出西北旺图景嘉园小区“抵制返京租客入住”的信息，称“不查身份证不量体温不看是否湖北来的情况下，一律一刀切，外地人统统不让进去。
But the property said they were also empty, and I don't know anyone else... "On January 31, at 9: 52 pm, a notice at the entrance to a Beijing store called" One size fits all. "Weibo ID issued the message of" Boycott to Beijing Tenants Resisting Return to Beijing "on January 29.
破五晚上9点半的北京寒冬里，妈妈带着孩子也不让进去……做法实在野蛮。
On Friday night at 9: 30 in the winter in Beijing, mother and children are not allowed to enter... It is really barbaric.
”该小区租客孙先生告诉记者，那天夜里，他从机场回到图景嘉园已经10点左右，在场有来自四个家庭的六个租客。
Sun, the tenant, told reporters that he had arrived at the park from the airport at about 10 o'clock that night with six tenants from four families.
在和门口保安“谈判”、交涉数小时都没有进展。
After hours of "negotiating" with the security guard at the gate, no progress was made.
迫于无奈，拿着行李箱回不了家的租客们拨打了110。
Unable to return home with their suitcases, the tenants dialed 110.
1月31日，图景嘉园小区要求返京人员抵达小区时填写的承诺书“当地派出所所长和民警都来了，他们也跟村里（小区工作人员）掰哧了半天，但不管用。
On January 31, the picturesque Jiayuan District asked the returnees to fill out the commitment form "the local police station commander and the police came, they also with the village (sub-staff) squelching for half a day, but it did not work.
村民很义正辞严，说这规定是‘为了这边的家’。
Villagers are right to say the rule is' for the sake of the house '.
派出所所长讲，那这也是租客的家。
The station commander said that this is also the tenant's home.
但对方就说，这是小区自治。
But the other side said that this is community autonomy.
谁来也没用。
It's no use who comes.
”长期从事宪法学、地方自治研究的武大法学院教授秦前红指出，所谓社区（村民）自治是一种有限度的自治，大家通过共同的协议行为，来完成内部事务的决策和管理，这种自治不能侵犯基本人权，“比如基本的财产权、自由权、生命健康权，这是它的边界。
Qin Qianhong, a professor at Wu University School of Law who has long been engaged in constitutional law and local autonomy, pointed out that so-called community (village) autonomy is a limited form of self-government.
”那么，哪一级的机关有权作出封闭居住区域的指令？秦前红表示，“按照防控法和紧急卫生条例，应该由全国人大常委会，或者全国人大常委会授权国务院依法组建的防控疫情的机构，(或者)至少是省直辖市这一级，来发布相关的决定和办法，不能由比这个层次更低的机关，自行以‘紧急状态的正当性’为由，莫名其妙采取一些过分的措施。
"The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, or the organ authorized by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress to prevent and control the epidemic, or at least at the provincial and municipal level, should issue relevant decisions and measures.
”现实情况是，由于没有一套可以广泛适用的社区防控的指导规范，很多基层干部包括住户觉得，像图景嘉园等小区的“自治”措施有一定的威慑力和作用。
The reality is that, in the absence of a widely applicable set of guidelines for community prevention and control, many grassroots cadres, including households, feel that measures such as "autonomy" in small areas such as King Jiayuan have a certain deterrent effect.
对此，秦教授表示，在疫情爆发之初，针对具体情况采取的某些举措，某种程度上有合理性和正当性。
In response, Professor Qin said that in the outbreak of the outbreak, the specific circumstances of certain initiatives, a certain degree of legitimacy and legitimacy.
但到了当下的发展阶段，需要出台一个具有普遍性的办法来应对。
But at this stage of development, a universal approach is needed.
“还有一点，小区/村里表示有上面排查和防控的压力，但是排查是要你摸清情况，去跟踪疫情的发展变化，不是说要对他人的人身、对他的居住自由采取过分的限制，甚至是剥夺。
"Also, the community / village indicated that there was pressure on it to sort out and prevent, but the screening was to get a sense of the situation, to track the development of the epidemic, not to say to impose excessive restrictions or even deprivation on the person of another person or on his freedom of residence.
这个必须要分清。
This has to be distinguished.
”当晚，绝望的孙先生等租客只得分头去了附近酒店。
That night, the desperate Mr Sun and the other tenants had to split up and go to a nearby hotel.
第二天，图景嘉园的租客得到消息，只要在门口登记，签上“承诺书”，坚持测量体温，就可以进入小区。
The next day, the Landscape Gardeners get the message, as long as the door to register, sign "Deed of Commitment", adhere to take temperature, can enter the community.
1月31日，图景嘉园业主和租户出入时在门口登记个人信息、测量体温其他人就没这么幸运了。
On January 31, the owners and tenants of Landscape Carnival were less fortunate to register their personal information and take their temperature at the entrance.
1月30日，家住顺义的租客阿纯夫妇建立了返京租客微信群。
January 30, the tenants who live in Shunyi Ah Chun and his wife set up a back Beijing tenant micro-credit group.
“我人在东北老家，但我老公29日就回到北京了，一直还没法进小区。
"I am from Northeast China, but my husband came back to Beijing on the 29th and has not been able to enter the community.
”阿纯说。
"said Jun.
截至2月2日，已有三百多位租客在群中“抱团取暖”。
As of February 2, more than 300 tenants had joined the group for warmth.
他们不理解，限制外地户籍租客的依据何在？有人开始用表格统计所在小区情况，有人贴出和房东、村里的“斡旋”经验。
They do not understand the basis for the restrictions on non-resident tenants? Some people began to use the table to statistics on the situation in the small areas, and someone posted the landlord, the village "mediation" experience.
群里滚动着各村不同的管控措施。
Different village controls were rolling in the group.
大家的境遇五花八门，心情也七上八下。
Everyone's situation is very varied and his mood is very varied.
在平西府村等多个村口，张贴的北七家镇政府致村（居）民的信东三旗、平西府村、皮村……租客纷纷贴出所在村发出的“禁回”令，有的是张贴出来的白纸黑字，有的只是一段微信说明。
In the village of Pingsi, such as the village, posted in the north seven towns government Zhicheng village (residence) people's three flags, Pingxi provincial village, Pi Village... tenants have posted out the village issued a "no return" order, some posted in black and white, some just a micro-letter.
2月1日的北七家镇平西府村口这些村和小区，大多属于北七家镇。
February 1 in the northern seven towns Pingpingxifu village entrance these villages and small areas, most of them belong to the northern seven towns.
从南北向的立汤路往北，去往机场的路上，基本都要经过北七家。
From the north-south direction of Li Tang Road to the north, to the airport on the road, basically have to go through seven north.
北七家下辖19个村。
There are 19 villages in the seven northern regions.
这里距亚运村北四公里，拥有在首都知名的“亚北车市”，地铁“动脉”5号线纵贯其间。
It is four kilometers north of the Asian Games village and has what is known as the "Ya Beichuan Che City," the metro "arteries" line 5 running through it.
往西北能达生命科学园、上地中关村，往南可达北京中轴线，各村里尚未拆迁的宅基地、村民自建房星罗棋布，北七家因而成为京西北打工族租房的热门之选。
To the north-west life science park, Zhongguancun in the north-west, and up to the central axis of Beijing to the south, the villages have not yet been demolished homestead, villagers built their own homes everywhere, seven north-west workers have become the hot choice.
距离5号线北段首站天通苑北仅200米之遥的东三旗村，更是“热中之热”。
The village of Dongsanqi, only 200 meters north of the first stop of Line 5, is "hot in the heat."
从2003年起，到东三旗村里居住的人越来越多，不少村民翻建自家房屋用于出租。
Since 2003, more and more people have come to live in the village of Dongsanqi, and many villagers have rebuilt their houses for rent.
通常一幢村民自建房都在三至五层，一户村民往往有几十位租客。
Usually a villager builds his own house on three to five floors, and a villager often has dozens of tenants.
每间房格局相似：一张床、一个写字台、一个衣柜，月租在1500到1800元，有独立卫浴的租金偏高。
Each room pattern is similar: a bed, a desk, a wardrobe, rent in 1500 to 1800 yuan a month, the rent of independent sanitary ware is high.
出于安全考虑，不能使用煤气，大家做饭都用电磁炉。
For safety reasons, we can't use gas, everyone cooks with an electromagnetic stove.
东三旗村内，1月29日之后树立的封堵栅栏，禁止外地返京租户进入，村民们都从中街路口出入2月1日上午，记者从挨着立汤路的东三旗村西口走进主路，隔几百米左右便是简易的垃圾回收站。
East Sanqi Village, after January 29, the closure of the fence after the entry of non-residents back to Beijing, villagers have access to the street junction, February 1 morning, from next to LiTang Road Dongsanqi Village West into the main road, a few hundred meters away is a simple garbage collection station.
水饺店、手擀面、板面店、电信店、服装小店沿两侧排开，但此刻通通以卷闸门示人。
The dumpling shop, the hand-rolling pin, the plate shop, the telecom shop, the clothing store were all lined up along the sides, but now they were all in the sluice.
除了偶尔呼啸而过的外卖摩托、三两村民，看不到多少外人。
Except for the occasional take-out motorcycle, three or two villagers, not many outsiders.
村东头墙上的宣传标语写着，“疏解整治促提升，增强群众获得感”。
The poster on the east wall of the village said, "Rectify and promote ascension, enhance the sense of public access."
2月1日的北七家镇东三旗村，各商铺皆关门闭户西头村委会的门口，被伸缩金属门锁住。
February 1, seven towns in the eastern village of Sanqi, shops are closed door West Village Committee door, was locked by telescopic metal doors.
南北所有小路的路口，都封上了金属栅栏。
At the junction of all the paths north and south, metal fences were sealed.
这些栅栏门多半都是1月29日到30日刚给封上。
Most of the gates had been sealed between January 29 and 30.
栅栏上悉数贴着落款1月25日的《北七家镇人民政府致村（居）民朋友的一封信》。
On the fence, a letter from the friend of the village (resident) of the people's government of the seven northern towns was affixed to the fence.
其中第三条提到：“从湖北及其他疫情发生地区回京的人员，应当按照要求居家观察14日，每日向所在村（居）委会报告健康状况，配合居住地村（居）委会、镇政府和社区卫生服务机构的服务管理。
Article 3 states: "Persons returning to Beijing from Hubei and other epidemic areas shall, as required, observe 14 days and report their state of health daily to the respective village (residential) committee and coordinate the management of services of the village (neighbourhood) committee, township government and community health service organizations.
”走到中街口，南北两头各有五六位身穿深色保安服的人值勤、监控。
At the middle of the street, five or six men in dark security clothing were on duty and were watching the north and the south.
几位工作人员站在登记的桌边，示意经过的本地村民出示身份证、测量体温。
Several staff members stood at the check-in table, gesturing to passing local villagers to show their identity cards and take their temperature.
岗亭边的地上竖立着红底白字的告示牌：“为了全体居民的健康与安全，请您配合”。
On the ground beside the pavilion stood a sign in red and white: "For the sake of the health and safety of the whole population, please cooperate."
记者希望能确认“14天隔离”的具体情况，岗亭里一位戴袖章的女士让记者找镇上宣传科。
The reporter wanted to confirm the "14-day isolation" concrete situation, the guard booth a woman wearing armband asked the reporter to go to the town propaganda section.
就在记者了解情况时，一位身穿灰色外套的短发女士走了过来。
Just as the reporter was getting to know the situation, a short-haired woman in a grey coat came up.
记者介绍身份后，对方说：“我们村里不接受采访。
Reporter introduced his identity, the other side said: "Our village does not accept the interview.
”记者追问有关健康证明等具体信息，女士让记者问镇政府，“你去问中央和北京市的规定”。
Asked about the health certificate and other specific information, the woman asked reporters to ask the township government, "you ask the central and Beijing regulations."
记者表示中央和北京市没有出台“禁止返京租户进入居住小区”和“需要开健康证明才能入户”的规定，工作人员的回答是，“你明不明白14天隔离什么意思？”最后，该女士以记者“和他们距离过近，有感染危险”为由，示意记者尽快离开。
Reporters said the central government and Beijing did not have a "ban on returning residents to live in residential areas" and a "health certificate is required to enter the house." The staff replied, "Do you understand the meaning of 14 days of isolation?"
一位男工作人员指着记者问：“你这样，是想扩散疫情吗？”倒挂大镇北七家的“无奈”北七家镇的其他村情况和东三旗村相似，只是各村有很多细节上的差别。
"Do you want to spread the epidemic?" a male staff member pointed to reporters and asked, "Do you want to spread the epidemic?" The other villages in the seven towns in the north of the town upside down are similar to those in the village of Dongsanqi, although the villages differ in many details.
1月31日上午，记者在白庙村东街和西街门口看到，身穿制服的工作人员会让进出村民出示他们填好的纸质“出入证”。
On the morning of January 31, at the gates of East and West Street in Paimiao Village, uniformed staff would ask the villagers to show them their completed paper "passes."
一位在西街口守候的租客告诉记者，房东的亲戚答应帮他办理出入证，也许能够进去；有的小区居委会透露，需要房主（房东）签字或者出具同意书；还有租客心情沮丧地说，房东很明确地告知，“如果他出租的房子出现问题，村委会说以后他的房子不可以再出租，所以他们必须严格执行”。
A tenant waiting at the West Street entrance told reporters that the landlord's relatives had promised to get him a pass and might be able to go in. Some residents said they needed the landlord's signature or consent.
还有人说，大房东和二房东，房东和中介，态度都不一样。
It was also said that the attitude of landlords and second landlords, landlords and brokers was different.
1月31日，北京北七家镇白庙村口，村里规定返京租户不能入内，必须在外隔离14天2月1日中午，从东三旗村出来，记者来到北七家镇政府。
On January 31, 2007, at the entrance of the village of Bai Miao, a village in the north of Beijing, seven residents of the village of Bai Miao had to be quarantined outside for 14 days.
一位工作人员接待后，表示需获得昌平区宣传部同意才能接受采访。
A staff member after receiving, said need to obtain Changping District propaganda department to accept the interview.
电话征得宣传部同意，记者用邮件发出了采访函，该工作人员向记者简要介绍了北七家镇的防控措施。
With the approval of the Ministry of Information by telephone, an interview letter was sent by mail and the staff briefed the press on control measures in the seven northern townships.
“首先，我们从来没有提过‘封村’。
"First of all, we have never mentioned 'village closures'.
这个用词不当。
This is a misnomer.
”该工作人员严肃地纠正。
The staff member made serious corrections.
他称，镇党委和政府很早就向各村发出了指导意见，传达过管控措施。
He said that the township party committee and the government had issued early guidance to the villages, conveying the control measures.
措施的依据，来自1月29日北京市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组颁布的《社区（村）防控工作方案（试行）》。
The measures are based on the Work Programme of Community (Village) Prevention and Control (Trial) issued by the Leading Group of the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection in Beijing on January 29.
在北七家镇党委和政府大楼三层，工作人员接受了本刊记者采访但不论是北七家镇1月25日往各村下发的通知，还是市领导小组的这份文件，都没有提到返京租客不能进入小区，也没有提到要开健康证明。
On the third floor of the Party committees and government buildings in the seven northern townships, staff members were interviewed by our journalists, but neither the circular issued by the seven northern towns to the villages on 25 January nor the document of the city leadership team mentioned that returning Beijing tenants could not enter the neighbourhood, nor did they mention the need to issue health certificates.
该工作人员回应，“因为1月29日到30日疫情和舆情都迅速变化。
"Because the epidemic and public opinion changed rapidly from January 29 to 30," the official said.
村干部们也多少有点紧张，不知如何应对。
Village cadres are also somewhat nervous and do not know how to deal with it.
他们在随后发给租客的通知里没有提‘（房东租客）双承诺’，用简单的言语告知，措施也没写全，所以导致很多人误解。
In a subsequent notice to the tenant, they did not say '[Landlord Tenant] Double Undertaking' and told me in simple words that the measures were not complete, so that many people misunderstood.
”记者问，很多村都不让租客进，镇上是何时了解到这个情况的，有没有干预或调整？该工作人员面露难色，表示北七家镇是全北京“人口倒挂”现象最为严重的地区之一：“截止到2019年12月31日，北京市流管平台中，北七家镇流动人口数为198060人，该年度本镇的户籍人口43590人，人户分离的本市人口约10万人。
"The reporter asked when tenants were barred from entering many villages, when the town learned about the situation and intervened or adjusted," said the official, who faces one of the worst population inversion in Beijing's seven townships as of December 31, 2019, with 43590 residents living in the town and about 100,000 separated city residents.
”“流动人口大大地超过本地户籍人口，相当不好管理。
"The migrant population greatly exceeds the local household registration population and is rather difficult to manage.
而且你知道现在各村最大的压力在哪里？是防控物资严重缺乏，村里的卫生消毒条件难以达标。
And you know what's the biggest pressure in every village right now? There is a severe shortage of materials for prevention and control, and sanitation in the village is not up to standard.
这也是他们不敢贸然让返京租客进屋的担忧点。
This is also they dare not rush back to Beijing tenants to enter the worried point.
”该工作人员说。
"said the clerk.
2月1日下午，北七家镇平西府村，一位1月28日回村开始自行隔离的租户，从窗口接受记者采访并回答村干部的提问当天下午走访平西府村时，这一点被该村的书记范云霞证实。
In the afternoon of 1 February, during a visit to Pingsi village in the afternoon of 1 February, a tenant who had returned to his village on 28 January and had begun to isolate himself was confirmed by the village secretary, Fan Yunxia, when he interviewed journalists from the window and answered questions from village officials.
“我自己也是房东，租（出去）也好几十间房，所有周边的超市我都去了，还让我闺女从网上买，都买不着消毒液。
"I'm a landlord myself, renting (going out) dozens of rooms, going to all the supermarkets around me, and letting my daughter buy it online without buying any disinfectant.
我登记了买了点酒精，至今还没来货，消毒液得到2月4号以后才可以发货。
I have registered to buy some alcohol, so far has not been delivered, disinfectant can not be delivered until February 4.
”范云霞说自己这几天都通过微信告诉她的租客别回来，“他们都挺听我的”。
Fan said she had been tweeting to her tenants over the past few days not to return. "They all listen to me."
根据村干部给的数字，平西府村村民目前为1672人，租客人数则在一万三千人。
According to figures given by village officials, the number of villagers in Pingxi province now stands at 1,672, while the number of tenants is 13,000.
“村民，加上已经回来的、过年之前没走的（租客），大概5000人左右”。
"Villagers, plus those who have come back, before the Chinese New Year, about 5,000 people."
这意味着近期村上将要迎来8000人左右的人流。
That means about 8,000 people are expected to arrive in the village in the near future.
1月30日，北七家镇平西府村发出的“禁止外地返京人员进入我村入住”的通知在1月30日村里发通知前，已经有三百多位外地租客回到了村里。
On January 30, more than 300 non-resident tenants had returned to the village before the village notice of January 30 issued by the village of Pingpingxifu, seven towns in the north of the country.
这些人有几十位房东专门“看管”。
These people have dozens of landlords who specialize in "guarding."
“您说您尽量别来，您来了的话，比如说大家40间房，统共两三个人（村民）照顾，什么条件都不具备，一旦爆发的话，这责任算谁？疫情期间菜不好买，食品只能房东帮着解决。
"You said you try not to come, if you come, say 40 rooms, a total of two or three people (villagers) care, any conditions are not in place, if the outbreak, who is responsible for the outbreak, food is difficult to buy, the landlord can only help solve the food.
吃喝拉撒也都是这些房东帮忙。
These landlords help us with the food and drink.
再多人来，怎么接待？”有村干部诉苦道。
How to receive more people? "Some village cadres complained bitterly.
在平西府村260号，房东金女士隔着一条马路，叫开了二楼靠外一间房间的窗户——那是迄今唯一从外地返回她出租屋的房客。
At 260, the landlord, Ms. King, across a street, called out a window in the outer room on the second floor - the only tenant who had so far returned from the outside to her rented house.
一家三口来自河北，从1月28日返京始，已经隔离了五天。
A family of three from Hebei province has been isolated for five days since returning to Beijing on January 28.
男租客从窗口露出脸来，告诉记者，“我们还挺好的！暂时不上班，我老婆是安贞医院的，她从28日回来就天天去上班了”。
Male tenants out of the window, told reporters, "We are fine! For the time being, my wife is Anchor Hospital, she came back from the 28th every day to work."
2月1日，北七家平西府村内的消毒车在沿路喷洒消毒液前述北七家镇工作人员还表示，在1月30日，北七家镇就已通知各村，安排了东三旗宾馆、燕通宾馆等三家指定宾馆，专门接纳已经抵京、无处可去的租客。
On 1 February, disinfectant trucks in seven northern Pingsi villages sprayed disinfectant along the road. The seven northern townships also informed the villages on 30 January that three designated hotels, including Dongsanqi Hotel and Yantong Hotel, had been set up to accommodate tenants who had arrived in Beijing and had nowhere to go.
这三家宾馆日常住宿费在100元以上，但他们被要求疫情期间房价控制在80到100元每天，“超出部分的旅馆成本，由镇政府兜底”。
The three hotels cost more than $100 a day, but were asked to keep house prices at between 80 and 100 yuan a day during the outbreak.
但这几家宾馆的消息，没有通过村一级和房东，传递到大多数已返京和将要返京的租客耳里。
But the news of these hotels, not through the village level and landlords, reached most of the tenants who have returned to Beijing and will return to Beijing.
“我们都是在村口，给那些实在有居住困难的返京租客说的。
"We were all at the entrance to the village, talking to the tenants back to Beijing who had real difficulties living there.
不然这几家宾馆马上就爆满了。
Otherwise, the hotels would be full in no time.
我们也在加班，尽量安排更多的指定宾馆。
We are also working overtime, trying to arrange more designated hotels.
还是希望租客们能尽量晚来就尽量晚来。
I still hope the tenants can come as late as possible.
”该工作人员强调。
The staff member stressed.
毗邻东三旗村委会和邮局的东三旗宾馆，混在周围的一堆铺面当中，门脸并不显眼。
The Dongsanqi Hotel adjacent to the East Sanqi Village Committee and the Post Office is not visible in the middle of the surrounding pile of pavement.
宾馆的玻璃门直接推门可入。
The glass door of the hotel is directly accessible.
前台值班人员向记者出示了1月30日至今的登记表，一共有34位客人入住，最右侧显示登记时的体温数据，另有一些表格填写着此后每天的体温信息。
The front desk officer showed the registration form from Jan. 30 to the present. Thirty-four guests checked in. The right-hand side showed the temperature data at the time of registration.
1月30日开始至发稿时止，北七家镇安排了东三旗宾馆等四家宾馆，专门接纳辖区内有居住困难的外地返京租户入住交谈间，两位女客人从外头进来，手里提着两大袋食品，正要刷卡准备进屋。
From the beginning of January 30 to the date of dispatch, four hotels, including the Dongsanqi Hotel, have been set up in seven northern cities and towns to accommodate visiting residents from overseas who are having difficulties living in the area.
“她们刚刚登记入住，我们也得让她们采购点生活物品吧。
"They've just checked in, and we'll have to get them to do some shopping.
这以后就肯定隔离14天了，严格执行规定。
It's gonna be 14 days from now. Strict enforcement.
”值班人员解释。
The duty officer explained.
“管控外来人口这事儿，我们是宁可严、不可宽啊。
"We would rather be strict than lenient in the matter of immigration control.
一旦出了（感染所致的）人命，那我们就太对不起村民了！”离开平西府村前，某位北七家镇干部感叹。
Once out of life (from the infection), then we are very sorry for the villagers! "Before leaving Pingxi village, a North seven town cadre lamented.
2月1日，北七家镇平西府村工作人员登记出入人员信息“希望一直都在”采访中，镇上和部分村委给出了他们的态度。
On 1 February, in an interview with the village staff of the seven villages of Pingpingxifu in the north, who had registered to enter and leave the village, "Hope is always there," the town and some village committee members gave their attitude.
但房东和租客这边，情况依然扑朔迷离，前景未卜。
But on the part of landlords and tenants, the picture remains uncertain and uncertain.
2月1日傍晚，有几位租客在群里向大家“报喜”：“进去了！”姬扬便是其中的一个。
On the evening of Feb. 1, a few tenants in the crowd greeted each other with "Go in!" Ji Yang was one of them.
2月1日下午，他抵达北京后，先去了趟通州领导家拿上仓库钥匙。
On the afternoon of February 1, he arrived in Beijing and went to Tongzhou leaders to get the keys to the warehouse.
和记者通话时，刚刚吃完当天的第一顿饭。
I just finished the first meal of the day when I spoke to the reporter.
“KFC啦，因为没有其他店开，我也想找个会确保消毒的地方吃东西。
"KFC, because there are no other stores, I want to find a place to make sure it's sterile.
用酒精洗过手了，还是不敢用手直接抓汉堡。
Wash your hands with alcohol, or you can't just grab a hamburger with your hands.
”存着一丝希望，姬扬给物业又打了个电话，物业说房东让进就可以进。
"There is a glimmer of hope, Ji Yang to the property made a phone call, the property said the landlord let in can enter.
姬扬和物业沟通后，兴奋地直奔小区，“登记了，没办出入证，就进家门了”。
Jiyang and property communication, excited to go straight to the community, "registered, no pass, entered the house."
开门的瞬间，听到猫儿急切地“滋滋”抓挠地面的声音，姬扬有点哽咽了。
The moment the door opened, Ji Yang choked at the sound of the cat scratching the ground eagerly.
“进门一看，猫粮都吃完了，水还剩一点点”。
Come in and see that all the cat food has been eaten, there is a little water left.
放下双肩包，姬扬去楼下超市买了一堆菜：葱蒜、圆白菜、西红柿和土豆。
Putting down her shoulder bag, she went downstairs to the supermarket to buy a pile of vegetables: onion, cabbage, tomatoes and potatoes.
“节前只要三十来块，一结账一百多。
Just thirty dollars before the festival, and a hundred dollars more
老板说，没有进货渠道，都让快递打车把菜送进来。
The boss said there was no way to get in, so he asked the express to take the food in.
”姬扬和他的爱猫拉菲当晚，他打开视频，让妻子隔着摄像头看了会儿猫。
Ji Yang and his cat, Rafe, opened the video that night and told his wife to watch the cat through the camera for a while.
但她是不是马上返京，他还是没有把握。
But he was still unsure whether she would return to Beijing at once.
就在姬扬睡了安稳觉的这天夜里，微信群主阿纯在线上向大家道别，因为“（老公）已经回家了，我所在的小区，群里只有我一个人”阿纯又说，“（情况改观的）希望一直都在。
On that night, Ji Yang slept soundly. Ah Chun said good-bye to everyone online because "[Husband] has gone home, I'm the only one in the community," Ah Chun said.
”她告诉记者，丈夫前几天每日住宾馆，每天换一家，经济压力太大。
She told reporters that her husband had spent the last few days in a hotel and was under financial pressure to change homes every day.
而且家有孩子，老公千万不能感染。
And the family has children, husband must not be infected.
“老家是目前我们这个省唯一没有确诊的地级市。
"Our hometown is the only city in our province where there is no diagnosis.
我们都是80后，中年人了，压力格外大，你能想到一个家里顶梁柱被村民架出小区的窘迫吗？”1月31日晚，北京市发布通知，企业复工可以延期到2月10日，此前则可以灵活方式上班。
We are all 80 years old, middle-aged, particularly stressed out, can you think of a family pillar put up by villagers out of the community embarrassment? "January 31 night, Beijing issued a notice, enterprises can resume work until February 10, before flexible work.
还在家等待消息的返京客们多少松了口气。
Those returning to Beijing, still waiting for news, were somewhat relieved.
但对那些已经抵达北京，或因为公司要求2月3日到岗，正在路上、即将出发的务工人员，这个消息让他们略感尴尬。
But the news is somewhat embarrassing for workers who have arrived in Beijing or are on their way to work on February 3 because the company has asked them to do so.
据了解，随着疫情发展和返工潮临近，北京大多数小区对业主和租户都逐步开启了半封闭式管理。
It is understood that with the spread of the epidemic and the approach of the return of workers, most of Beijing's residential areas to owners and tenants are gradually open to semi-closed management.
有部分小区仅留有一个出口，24小时有人值守，个别小区还要求对出入人员体温进行监测。
Some small areas have only one exit and are manned 24 hours a day, and some require temperature monitoring of people entering or leaving the area.
而据不完全的民间自发统计，限制返京租客回家的事件，不独北边，在北京西城、海淀、丰台、朝阳、通州等区的数十个小区都有发生。
According to incomplete folk statistics, restrictions on the return of Beijing tenants home, not only in the north, in Beijing West City, Haidian, Fengtai, Chaoyang, Tongzhou and dozens of other districts.
2月1日下午，北京市政府副秘书长陈蓓在新闻发布会上表示：“除从湖北返京的人员外，任何社区（村）和物业部门，没有权利自行阻止体温检测正常的返京人员进入社区。
In the afternoon of Feb. 1, Bei Chen, deputy secretary-general of Beijing Municipal Government, said at a press conference: "Except for those returning from Hubei province, no community (village) or property department has the right to prevent the return of normal body temperature testers to the community by themselves.
”这是继北京市民政局1月31日回应“不能一刀切”后，北京市政府的又一次表态。
Beijing's municipal government issued another statement after Beijing's civil affairs bureau said on January 31 that "one size does not fit all."
针对这些局面，秦前红认为，首先要（保证）信息流动的自由，利益相关者的表达自由。
In view of these situations, Qin believed that the freedom of information flow and the freedom of expression of stakeholders should be the first priority.
“经过SARS的前车之鉴，中国的治理能力应该要有一个转型，走向现代化。
"Following the example of SARS, China's governance capacity should be transformed and modernized.
各地为政、地方主义和保护主义盛行，包括像封路、封村、暴力封家门，对湖北人武汉人的歧视，都显示了一种无序和失血状况。
The prevalence of politics, regionalism and protectionism everywhere, including road closures, village closures and violent home closures, as well as discrimination against Hubei Wuhan people, all show a disorder and loss of blood.
放任下去，会撕毁社会信任的纽带，也给整体抗疫机制的运行形成挟制。
Laissez-faire, will tear up the social trust ties, but also the operation of the overall anti-epidemic mechanism become hostage.
”2月2日凌晨1点多，北七家镇的工作人员告诉记者，镇党委和政府连夜开会，意识到之前有的村执行规定时“简单粗放，对上级意图理解有偏差”。
In the early hours of February 2, staff in seven northern towns told reporters that the town party committee and the government had been meeting overnight, aware that some of the village rules had been "simple and broad-minded and biased in their understanding of the intentions of their superiors."
因此已经讨论、出台了最新管控措施，关键信息如下：1.先尽量劝阻未返京租客，尽量暂缓返京。
Therefore, the latest control measures have been discussed and put in place. Key messages are as follows: 1. Try to dissuade non-Beijing tenants first and put off returning to Beijing as much as possible.
2.体温正常的返京租客和房东分别签订“主动隔离承诺书”，只要保证入村后14天隔离，即可进村。
2. The normal body temperature of Beijing renters and landlords respectively signed the "Active Isolation Undertaking," as long as the 14 days after the guarantee of isolation, can enter the village.
3.要求村委会主动做房东工作。
3. The village council is required to take the initiative in Landlord work.
房东不同意签承诺书的，由村（社区）协助解决住宿，引导到指定宾馆。
Landlords who do not agree to sign the undertaking, the village (community) to help solve the accommodation, guide to the designated hotel.
目前宾馆已经安排了四家，共有326个房间可提供入住。
At present, the hotel has arranged four rooms, a total of 326 rooms available for occupancy.
“昨天（2月1日）晚上，我们就要求所有存在‘简单化执行进出管理措施’的村，都进行了规范。
"Yesterday evening, February 1, we asked all villages with" simplified access control measures "to be regulated.
今天早上我就在村口监督执行。
I was at the village gate this morning overseeing implementation.
”2月2日中午，该工作人员告诉记者。
At noon on February 2, the official told reporters.
但新规通过口头和网络传达，北七家镇表示不会发布有关新规的具体文件。
But the new rules were communicated verbally and online, with seven northern towns saying they would not issue specific documents on the new rules.
1月31日北京某公交车上，司机佩戴了双层口罩截至2月2日，记者采访的二十多位租客，有少数收到了有关“双向承诺书”的信息。
Drivers wearing double-decker face masks On a Beijing bus on January 31, a few of the more than 20 tenants interviewed by reporters had received information about the "two-way promise.
群里的其他租户，则陆陆续续收到来自房东和村里的新信息。
Other tenants in the group continued to receive new information from the landlord and the village.
一方面，有租客表示，房东态度坚决，不同意签署承诺书。
On the one hand, some tenants indicated that the landlord was adamant and did not agree to sign the undertaking.
“宾馆条件我们也担心。
"We're worried about hotel conditions, too.
其实这是村镇把问题推给了房东。
It was the village that pushed the problem to the landlord.
”但也有一些好的变化。
But there have been some good changes.
“目前很顺畅，不是很严，也不需要房东啥的开证，登记就行……可能是政策宽松了，他们（村里）也松了一些，今天门口的人态度真不错，出乎意料。
"It's very smooth at the moment, it's not very strict, I don't need a landlord or anything, just register... maybe it's looser, they're looser [in the village], and the people at the gate are really nice and unexpected.
”2月2日晚上6点，一位租户在群里发言。
At 6 p.m. on February 2, a tenant spoke in the group.
2月1日，北京北部某村通过房东发给租客的信息姬扬说，妻子已经买了2月2日出发、2月3日到的车票。
On Feb. 1, a village in northern Beijing sent information to tenants via landlords. She said her wife had bought tickets to arrive on February 2 and February 3.
北京有许多用人单位已安排复工，第一波员工返京潮迫在眉睫。
Beijing has many employers have arranged to resume work, the first wave of employees back to Beijing imminent.
（除秦前红外，文中所有姓名为化名）新型冠状病毒肺炎专题：征集疫区真实故事，记录我们的命运《南方人物周刊》现面向所有新冠肺炎一线的读者征稿，写下你正在经历或亲眼所见的故事。
(All names given in this article are pseudonyms) New Coronavirus Pneumonia: Collection of True Stories about an Epidemic Area, Recording Our Fate The Southern Personality Weekly is now writing to all frontline readers of the New Crown Pneumonia, writing down the stories you are experiencing or witnessing.
如果你是一线医护人员或其家属，疫区公共服务人员，病患本人或家属，专业人士等等，如果你有故事、有困难、有建言，请让我们知道。
If you are a front-line health care worker or their family member, public service worker in an affected area, patient or family member, professional, etc., please let us know if you have a story, difficulties, suggestions, etc.
我们也同时征集采访对象和新闻线索，留下你的联系方式，我们的记者会同您联系。
We also solicit interviews and news leads, leave your contact information, and contact you at our press conference.
我们会充分保护受访者的隐私。
We will fully protect the privacy of the interviewees.
隔离疫情，但不隔离爱。
Isolate the epidemic, but not isolate love.
写出你的真实故事，你的困境和希望，记录我们共同的命运，围城内外携手共度。
Write down your true story, your plight and your hopes, record our common destiny, and spend time together inside and outside the city.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（2000字左右）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）祝愿所有在疫区和不在疫区的朋友们，新春快乐，平安健康。
The draft form is unlimited: text (around 2000 words), pictures (original shooting), audio-visual (original recording) wish all friends in epidemic and non-epidemic areas, happy New Year, safe and healthy.
投稿方式：1、直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（留言不会被放出，绝对会对您的个人信息保密）2、《南方人物周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：wuhantingzhu@126.com3、《南方人物周刊》官方微博讨论话题：#我在疫区有话说#注：请务必保证投稿内容的真实、客观、理性，不造谣，不传谣。
(Message will not be released and your personal information will be kept confidential) 2. Wuhantingzhu @ 126.com3, official Weibo of Southern Personality Weekly, # I have a word in the epidemic area # Please make sure the content of the contribution is true, objective, rational, do not rumor, do not spread rumor.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
陌路他乡——返京租客的四天三夜。
Defamiliarization - four days and three nights for Beijing renters.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南方人物周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "陌路他乡——返京租客的四天三夜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; stranger & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“和房东签订双向承诺书”，租客们能回了？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '“不是告急，是没有了”——武汉协和医院救援物资之困',。
"Not at risk or absent" - & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '疫情重压下的武汉殡葬服务：封城影响处理时间，患者遗体限定殡仪馆接收',。
Wuhan funeral service under the weight of the epidemic: the closure affected processing time, and the body was marked by AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '已出现感染症状，但暂时不能确诊时，我们能做什么？',。
What can we do with & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '钟南山：守责才是最大的政治',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & rsquo; s responsibility.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '武汉试剂代理商口述：我所知道的新型肺炎确诊盒供应现状',。
At the dictation of Wuhan Reagent & amp; Reagent & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '回不了家的武汉人',。
Wuhan & apos; who couldn't return home.
subject_name: '南方人物周刊',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="南方人物周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
