全球口罩总动员：法国和日本的工厂24小时不停工。
Global Mask Mobilization: Factories in France and Japan are open 24 hours a day.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
来源：图虫记者：卢奕贝  编辑：牙韩翔“ 疫情影响之下全球防护设备，尤其是口罩供不应求。
Source: Toothworm reporter: Lou Hsiang, editor: "Global protective equipment under the impact of the epidemic, especially masks in short supply.
这让所有口罩生产商的工厂都开始忙碌起来。
This has kept all the mask makers' factories busy.
”一家名为Kolmi Hopen的公司突然收到了一大笔订单——5亿个口罩。
A company called Kolmi Hopen suddenly received a large order for 500 million masks.
这家位于法国昂格尔（Angers）的工厂，通常每年生产约1.7亿个口罩，但从上周开始，这家公司平均每两分钟就收到一笔订单。
The Angers plant, which produces about 170 million masks a year, has received an average order every two minutes since last week.
由于其原材料供应商位于法国和附近的欧洲国家，他们得以迅速提高产量。
With their raw material suppliers in France and nearby European countries, they were able to boost production quickly.
但该公司在暴增需求之下，仍需要延长工作时间、雇佣更多工人，来保证机器的24小时生产。
But the company still needs to work longer hours and hire more workers to keep machines running around the clock amid surging demand.
新型冠状病毒疫情席卷全球。
The new coronavirus epidemic is sweeping the globe.
截止2020年2月13日，中国现存确诊人数高达52368人。
As of February 13, 2020, there were 52,368 confirmed cases in China.
为了防止病毒传播，各地有关部门已经要求居民时必须佩戴口罩。
To prevent the virus from spreading, authorities around the country have required residents to wear masks.
而从疫情爆发以来，口罩的需求仍然无法得到满足。
Since the outbreak, the need for masks has remained unmet.
中国工信部曾指出，中国是世界最大的口罩生产和出口国，年产量占全球约50%。
China's Ministry of Industry and Communications has pointed out that China is the world's largest producer and exporter of masks, accounting for about 50% of global annual production.
但在这次的疫情的影响下，中国也需要向全球厂商求购口罩，以补充缺口。
But under the impact of the epidemic, China will also need to buy masks from global manufacturers to fill the gap.
一方面因为需求激增，另一方面许多工厂因为春节和疫情限制无法正常开工。
On the one hand, demand has surged, and on the other, many factories have been unable to operate normally because of Spring Festival and epidemic restrictions.
这让全球的口罩生产商的工厂都开始忙碌起来。
This is keeping the factories of mask makers around the world busy.
2月12日，中国海关总署发布数据显示，1月24日至2月11日，全国海关共验放进口疫情防控物资8.7亿件，价值28.4亿元。
On February 12, China's General Administration of Customs released data showing that between January 24 and February 11, 870 million imported epidemic prevention and control materials worth 2.84 billion yuan were released.
其中，口罩7.3亿只。
Of these, 730 million were masks.
“该公司已利用全球资源，在世界范围内加大口罩生产产量，并有对中国进口医用口罩。
"The company has used global resources to increase production of masks around the world and has imported medical masks for China."
”3M公司公关负责人对界面新闻表示。
The head of public relations at 3M told Interface News.
这家公司所销售的N95型口罩因为具有较高的防护性，在这次疫情之中需求激增。
The N95 mask sold by the company has seen a surge in demand due to its high level of protection.
除中国外，3M位于其他亚洲国家以及欧洲、美国的工厂已经被调动来增加生产。
In addition to China, 3M factories in other Asian countries as well as in Europe and the United States have been mobilized to increase production.
在日本，口罩厂商尤妮佳的工厂已经1个月没有停息。
In Japan, the mask maker Yunja's factory hasn't stopped for a month.
这家公司收到了比平时多10倍的口罩订单。
The company received orders for 10 times more masks than usual.
另一公司王子 Nepia 虽然增加了日本工厂的员工人数，以应对订单需求，却也同样被订单数量追着跑。
Another company, Prince Nepia, is being chased by orders even as it increases the number of employees at its Japanese plant to meet demand for orders.
日本卫生材料工业联合会曾表示，由1月16日日本出现首宗国内确诊个案起，2星期内已出货10亿个口罩。
The Japan Federation of Health Materials Industry said it had shipped 1 billion face masks within two weeks of the first confirmed domestic case in Japan on January 16.
根据日本经济产业省说法，日本厂商在本国销售的口罩当中，中国生产的占总量的7成，日本自己生产的只占3成。
According to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, China produces 70% of the masks sold in Japan and only 30% in Japan.
在日本政府的要求下，日本各家厂商虽然 24 小时不眠不休的赶工生产，却也同样无法应付爆量的需求。
At the behest of the Japanese government, Japanese companies, while running around the clock, are no better able to cope with the explosion.
甚至主营业务并非口罩的公司，也加入生产大军之中。
Even companies whose main business is not masks join the production workforce.
捷克共和国的Pardam是一家主要生产纳米纤维的公司，这种纤维可以捕捉微小颗粒。
Pardam in the Czech Republic is a company that produces nanofibers that capture tiny particles.
此前因没什么订单，公司几乎放弃了去年测试过的一款卫生口罩。
The company almost abandoned a health mask it tested last year because of lack of orders.
但在新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，公司库存的2000个口罩在两天内售罄，并将转向自动化以增加产量。
But after the outbreak of pneumonia, the company's stock of 2,000 masks sold out in two days will be automated to increase production.
除了供给中国市场庞大的需求之外，世界各国的口罩厂商拼命增加产量的背后，是他们自己口罩也不够用了。
In addition to supplying the huge demand of the Chinese market, mask manufacturers around the world are struggling to increase production behind their own masks.
据美国《新闻周刊》（Newsweek）1月28日报道，包括洛杉矶、芝加哥和多伦多在内的北美主要城市都出现了口罩供不应求的情况。
North America's major cities, including Los Angeles, Chicago and Toronto, are in short supply, according to Newsweek.
另外，在欧洲、日本、阿联酋等国家和地区，许多药店和商场的口罩也已经销售一空。
In addition, many pharmacies and stores in Europe, Japan and the United Arab Emirates have sold out of masks.
WHO(世界卫生组织)曾指出，全球正面临着个人防护用品市场的严重破坏，需求量是正常水平的100倍，价格则是正常水平的20倍。
The World Health Organization (WHO) has pointed out that the global market for personal protective equipment is facing severe damage, with demand 100 times the normal level and prices 20 times the normal level.
口罩短缺下，不少国家已经开始限购。
Many countries are already restricting their purchases because of a shortage of face masks.
日本自1月份出现肺炎确诊病例开始，许多药妆店在库存频频售罄的情况下，开始限制个人顾客购买的口罩数量，一般为每人限购2或3盒。
Since January, when cases of pneumonia were confirmed in Japan, many cosmetics stores began restricting the number of masks purchased by individual customers, typically to two or three boxes per person, as inventories were running out.
韩国自2月6日起，总额超过200万韩元或数量超过1000个时，需进行正式出口申报。
Since February 6, when the total amount exceeds 2 million won or more than 1,000 items, an official export declaration is required.
随着国内工厂逐渐复工，口罩供应将逐步好转。
The supply of masks will gradually improve as domestic factories resume work.
2月5日，在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，国家发展改革委社会发展司副司长郝福庆介绍，截至2月3日，全国22个重点省份口罩产量已经达到1480.6万只，比前一日环比增长3.1%，产能利用率达到了67%，环比提高2个百分点。
On February 5, Hao Fuqing, deputy director of the social development department of the National Development and Reform Commission, told a press conference on February 5 that as of February 3, the output of masks in 22 key provinces had reached 14.806 million, 3.1 percent more than the previous day's figure, and capacity utilization had reached 67 percent.
但已经卷入这场口罩生产浪潮的外国公司仍然没有打算停下。
But foreign companies, already embroiled in a wave of mask-making, still have no plans to stop.
“需求仍然在上升，我们还正在尽可能地以最快的速度生产口罩。
"Demand is still on the rise and we are making masks as fast as we can.
”Kolmi Hopen母公司Medicom首席运营官Guillaume Laverdure说。
"says Guillaume Laverdure, chief operating officer of Kolmi Hopen's parent company Medicom.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球口罩总动员：法国和日本的工厂24小时不停工。
Global Mask Mobilization: Factories in France and Japan are open 24 hours a day.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全球口罩总动员：法国和日本的工厂24小时不停工";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Global Mask Mobilization: & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情影响之下全球防护设备，尤其是口罩供不应求。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Global protective equipment, especially masks, is in short supply because of the epidemic.
这让所有口罩生产商的工厂都开始忙碌起来。
This has kept all the mask makers' factories busy.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
