新冠肺炎康复者血浆内抗体可用于治疗，其原理是什么？。
Is plasma antibody of new crown pneumonic convalescent person usable for treatment, what is its principle?
谢欣。
Xie Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：谢欣  编辑：许悦“ 武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇对外表示，金银潭医院正在开展康复病人的恢复期血浆输注，目前也显示出一些初步效果，因为康复期患者体内有大量综合抗体来对抗病毒。
Reporter: Xie Yue: "Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital director Zhang Dingyu external said that the gold and silver pool hospital is carrying out rehabilitation of patients plasma infusion, also showing some initial results, because convalescent patients have a large number of anti-virus complex antibodies.
”2月13日晚，武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇对外表示，金银潭医院正在开展康复病人的恢复期血浆输注，目前也显示出一些初步效果，因为康复期患者体内有大量综合抗体来对抗病毒。
On the night of February 13, Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, said the hospital was carrying out convalescent plasma transfusions of convalescent patients, and was showing some initial results, as the convalescent patients had a large number of antibodies against antiviral diseases.
这也是新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，首次有一线医疗专家确认了“血清疗法”用于临床救治。
It is also the first time since the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown that front-line medical experts have confirmed the use of "serum therapy" for clinical treatment.
实际上，在国家卫健委发布试行第四版的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》中就已经正式提出，对重型、危重型病人治疗措施“可采用恢复期血浆治疗”。
In fact, in the National Health Commission issued a trial version of the fourth version of the "New Coronavirus Infection of Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment," the treatment measures for heavy, critical patients "can use convalescent plasma treatment."
使用康复期患者的血浆输注进行临床治疗的思路，在抗击SARS疫情时期实际上就已有之。
The idea of using plasma transfusion for clinical treatment of convalescent patients actually existed during the fight against SARS.
钟南山院士就曾在当时提出过用康复者血清治疗SARS患者的建议，天坛生物也曾研制SARS抗病毒血清。
Academician Zhong Nan Shan at that time proposed to use the serum of the recovered patients to treat SARS patients, Tiantan biology has also developed SARS antiviral serum.
中国香港和台湾地区的一些医院也曾对SARS重病患开展过血清疗法，并取得了不错的疗效。
Some hospitals in Hong Kong, China and Taiwan have also carried out sero-therapy for severe SARS patients and achieved good results.
在疫情爆发后医药界苦苦寻找治疗新冠病毒肺炎药物时，就有多位行业专家曾对界面新闻记者提出，使用康复期患者的血浆输注治疗是一个选择。
When the medical community was struggling to find a cure for pneumonia after the outbreak, a number of industry experts had suggested to interface journalists that using plasma infusion therapy for convalescent patients was an option.
简单来说，目前对于新冠病毒肺炎没有特效药，而患者在被病毒感染后，自身免疫系统会针对新冠病毒出现免疫应答，产生相应的特异性抗体，当这些新冠病毒特异性抗体具备足够规模时，就有可能战胜体内的新冠病毒。
In a nutshell, there are no specific drugs for Newcrown Virus pneumonia, and patients whose immune systems respond to the new crown virus produce specific antibodies that are likely to defeat the new crown virus when they are sufficiently large.
而康复患者体内血液中往往就存在着足够规模的新冠病毒特异性抗体，通过对他们的血液抽取，对其血清进行一定的处理，便可以通过输血的方式把康复者血液中的抗体给到临床病人，帮助患者自身免疫系统对抗新冠病毒。
In convalescent patients, the specific antibody of the new crown virus exists in the blood of convalescent patients. The antibodies in the blood of the convalescent patients can be given to the clinical patients by blood transfusion, and the patients' own immune systems can be used to fight the new crown virus.
大众所关切的疫苗，实际上以传统的灭活疫苗为例，也是将被杀死病毒以疫苗方式接种人体，随后由免疫系统产生相应抗体，相比之下使用康复患者的血清治疗则更加直接。
Vaccines of public concern, in fact, in the case of traditional inactivated vaccines, also vaccinate people with killed viruses and then have the corresponding antibodies produced by the immune system, more directly than serological treatment with convalescent patients.
“中国生物”也在2月13日晚宣布，已完成对部分康复者血浆的采集工作，开展新冠病毒特免血浆制品和特免球蛋白的制备。
On the night of Feb. 13, Biology of China announced that it had completed the collection of plasma from some recovered patients and initiated the preparation of plasma-free and immunoglobulin-free products for the new crown virus.
经过严格的血液生物安全性检测，病毒灭活，抗病毒活性检测等，已成功制备出用于临床治疗的特免血浆。
After rigorous blood bio-safety testing, virus inactivation, antiviral activity testing, etc. have been successfully prepared for clinical treatment of the exempted plasma.
2月8日，以新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）为指南，首期在江夏区第一人民医院开展了3名危重患者的新冠特免血浆治疗，目前连同后续医院治疗的危重病人超过了10人。
On February 8, guided by the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (trial version 5), the first phase of the New Crown-free plasma treatment for three critically ill patients was conducted at the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District. More than 10 critically ill patients are now being treated together with follow-up hospitals.
临床反映，患者接受治疗12至24小时后，实验室检测主要炎症指标明显下降，淋巴细胞比例上升，血氧饱和度、病毒载量等重点指标全面向好，临床体征和症状明显好转。
After 12 to 24 hours of treatment, the main inflammatory indexes were decreased, lymphocyte ratio increased, blood oxygen saturation and viral load were improved. The clinical signs and symptoms improved obviously.
但这种方式也并非万能神药，目前依然存在着诸多限制。
But this approach is not a panacea, there are still many limitations.
腾盛博药的联合创始人、总裁兼首席执行官洪志博士此前曾在接受医药魔方采访时表示，利用痊愈患者的血清来治疗其他感染患者是过去对抗多种感染性疾病的常见手段，但这类方法也存在一些危险，比如不同痊愈患者血清抗体量不一致，经过灭活的血清中仍含有其它一些潜在危险病源。
Hong Zhi, Tengsheng's co-founder, president and chief executive, had previously told the Rubik's cures that treating other infected patients was a common way of fighting multiple infectious diseases in the past, but there were also risks, such as inconsistent serum antibody levels in different cured patients and other potentially dangerous pathogens in the inactivated serum.
中科院上海巴斯德所此前也对媒体表示，虽然血清疗法可以较为有效的用来对抗或预防病毒或细菌引起的疾病，但血清成分复杂，对于是否会引起其他问题还存在不确定性，何况其存在的时间比较短，而且需要的血清数量也比较大。
The Shanghai Pasteur Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences has previously told the media that while serum therapy can be used more effectively to combat or prevent viral or bacterial diseases, there is uncertainty about whether serological components are complex and cause other problems, especially since they have been around for a short time and require larger serums.
但是通过现代方法，可以通过分析治愈者的血液，拿到可以有效地中和病毒的全人源单克隆抗体序列，用以治疗和预防病毒引起的疾病的发生。
But modern methods can be used to treat and prevent viral diseases by analyzing the blood of the healer and obtaining a sequence of monoclonal antibodies that can effectively neutralize the virus.
洪志也曾提及，现在技术上已经有了利用痊愈患者血液的更好手段，即从患者血液中提取出对病毒有记忆的B细胞，再把这类细胞产生的能够对抗病原体的抗体分离出来，进而用于治疗其他感染患者。
Hongzhi also mentioned that there is now a better way to use the blood of recovered patients to extract B cells from patients' blood that have memories of the virus, and then to isolate antibodies produced by such cells that can fight pathogens and then use them to treat other infected patients.
与直接用血清治疗相比，这是相对更安全的一种策略，因为可以对抗体进行标准化生产，还能够以标准化的剂量给药。
This is a relatively safer strategy than direct sero-therapy, as antibodies can be standardized and administered in standardized doses.
但他也强调，拿到单抗并不意味着可以直接用于治疗其他患者，因为还要进行临床前以及临床I期健康人研究等验证。
But he also stressed that getting monoclonal antibodies did not mean they could be used directly to treat other patients, because of pre-clinical and clinical phase I studies of healthy people.
而想要大量生产这类抗体，也还需花很多时间和精力。
It also takes a lot of time and effort to produce these antibodies in large quantities.
一般来说，从发现这种抗体到使这类抗体能够在高产细胞中大量表达至少需要1年左右的时间。
In general, it takes at least a year or so between the discovery of the antibody and its ability to express itself in large quantities in high-yielding cells.
这对于应对突发性的疫情是非常不利的。
This is very detrimental to dealing with sudden outbreaks.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎康复者血浆内抗体可用于治疗，其原理是什么？。
Is plasma antibody of new crown pneumonic convalescent person usable for treatment, what is its principle?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎康复者血浆内抗体可用于治疗，其原理是什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; What & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇对外表示，金银潭医院正在开展康复病人的恢复期血浆输注，目前也显示出一些初步效果，因为康复期患者体内有大量综合抗体来对抗病毒。
Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital, said that the rehabilitation phase of plasma infusion was under way at the gold and silver pool hospital and was showing some initial results, as the convalescent patients had large numbers of antibodies against antivirus.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
