一个县城基层干部的自述：五点守在路口，戴“三无口罩”工作。
A county town basic cadre's self-statement: five points at the junction, wearing "three no masks" work.
殷宴。
A feast.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
摄影：彭晓葵口述：小孙  记者：殷宴“ “我们现在尽量在寻找一个平衡点，既要阻断病毒传播，又不能影响居民正常生活””新冠肺炎疫情爆发近一个月以来，从湖北到全国各地均处于应急响应状态。
"We are now trying to find a balance between disrupting the spread of the virus and not disrupting the normal life of the residents," said Zhang Xiaoxue, who spoke at the opening ceremony of the Beijing News Agency in Beijing.
千家万户闭门不出的同时，基层公务员们在乡镇间奔走，克服管制带来的种种困难，把防疫工作落实到每一村、每一户，一方面严防疫情扩散，另一方面又要努力保障正常的生活秩序，每天都承受着巨大的压力。
At the same time, civil servants at the grass-roots level have been running through towns and villages to overcome the difficulties brought about by the controls, implement the epidemic prevention work in every village and household and, on the one hand, strictly prevent the spread of the epidemic and, on the other hand, strive to ensure a normal life order.
小孙是湖南一名乡镇公务员，自大年初二就和同事们奋战在第一线。
Xiaosun is a township civil servant in Hunan Province, since the second year of junior high school and colleagues fighting in the front line.
虽然心里有恐惧、有抱怨，但他们从未离开岗位一步。
In spite of their fears and complaints, they never left their posts.
小孙最迫切的希望，是防疫工作中少一点形式主义，少发些表格，多发点口罩和酒精。
Sun's most urgent hope is less formalism in the epidemic prevention work, less distribution of forms, more points of masks and alcohol.
以下是小孙的口述我是湖南永州市下属某县的一名公务员，在镇政府工作。
I am a civil servant of a county subordinate to Hunan Yongzhou. I work in the township government.
我从大年初二开始上班，到现在已经二十天了。
I started to work on the second day of New Year, and it has been twenty days now.
我们单位一共五六十人，年初二接到通知就有一半同事返回岗位，2月3日正式上班以后基本都回来了，所有人都在没日没夜地忙防疫工作。
Our unit has a total of 50 or 60 people, on the second day of the New Year on notice half of my colleagues returned to work, February 3 after the official return to work, all day and night busy epidemic prevention work.
我们同事开玩笑说，今年怎么没过年就开春了？武汉疫情的消息来得太突然，大家一点准备都没有，头几天可以说相当混乱。
Our colleagues joked that this year did not celebrate the Spring Festival? Wuhan outbreak of the news came too suddenly, we were not prepared at all, the first few days can be said quite chaotic.
1月24号开全县防疫工作会的时候，所有的参会人员都没戴口罩。
January 24 when the county opened the vaccination session, all the participants did not wear masks.
我发短信提醒我们领导戴口罩，他说连县长都没戴，他不好意思戴。
I text-mailed our leader to wear a mask. He said he didn't even wear one. He was embarrassed to wear one.
到第二次开会时，才都戴上了。
It was not until the second meeting that they were all on.
几乎每天都有新的表格要填，还不止一个单位要，各个单位都给你发报表。
Almost every day there are new forms to fill in, and more than one unit needs to send you a report.
科协、组织部等每个单位都出“关于疫情防控致居民的一封信”，每出一份我们就要传达一份，内容大同小异，增加了很多重复工作量。
Each unit, such as the Science Association and the Organization Department, produces a "Letter to the residents on the prevention and control of the epidemic."
我们县虽然和湖北不接壤，但有不少人在湖北打工，压力还是比较大的。
Although our county and Hubei do not border, but a lot of people in Hubei work, the pressure is relatively large.
根据公安系统提供的大数据，今年春节从武汉返回我们县的有数千人。
According to big data from the public security system, thousands of people returned to our county from Wuhan this Spring Festival.
村里谁家有人在武汉工作，还比较好摸底，县城里更难，都得挨家挨户查访。
Who in the village work in Wuhan, but also relatively good sense, more difficult in the county, have to go door-to-door visits.
我负责一部分办公室工作，这段时间最操心的就是物资，口罩、消毒酒精、宣传横幅、扩音器等等，我们采购以后再配发到各个村，因为让村干部来领，会增加人员聚集的风险。
I was in charge of part of the office, and the biggest worry was supplies, masks, disinfectant alcohol, banners, loudspeakers, etc., which we purchased and then distributed to the villages.
物资太紧缺了。
Supplies are running short.
一开始连乡镇卫生院的医务人员都没有正规医用口罩，只能戴社会捐赠的一次性口罩。
At first, even the medical staff of township hospitals did not have regular medical masks, only wearing disposable masks donated by the community.
县里第一次给我们发了两百个口罩，第二次发了五百个，后面又陆续发了几次，加在一起不到两千个，而我们下面有几十个村，两百多个村干部，从年初二到现在这么多天了，县里发的根本不够用。
For the first time, we were given two hundred masks in the county, five hundred in the second, and a few more in succession, amounting to less than two thousand in all, while below us were dozens of villages and more than two hundred village cadres.
我每天都在到处找口罩。
I look for masks everywhere every day.
最近新闻曝光有多少万只假口罩、三无口罩流入湖南，其实我们全靠这些劣质口罩才能维持工作。
The news recently revealed how many thousands of fake masks and three mask-free flow into Hunan, in fact, we rely on these shoddy masks to maintain work.
前两周有个药店说有医用口罩，要价一块五一只，我就订了几千只，去拉货时却发现根本不是医用的，连独立包装都没有，还有一股刺鼻的气味。
A couple of weeks ago there was a pharmacy that said it had a medical mask and asked for a dollar or five. I ordered thousands of them, only to find they were not medical at all, no stand-alone packaging, and a pungent smell.
我和老板吵了起来，对方态度很牛，说你不要有别人要，五分钟就能卖光。
I had an argument with my boss, and the other person was very aggressive and said you don't want anyone else to ask for it.
我一想，现在确实没有别的办法，只能忍气吞声把这批口罩买了下来。
I thought there was really nothing else I could do but swallow and buy the masks.
幸好我买的早，最近连这种三无口罩都涨到了三块左右，还买不到。
Luckily, I bought it early, and recently even the three face masks have gone up to about three, and I can't buy them.
昨天到村里巡查，给每个村干部发了4只口罩，只够两天用的，但我们总共只剩两百多只，单位机关都不够用了。
Yesterday we went to the village and distributed four face masks to each village cadre, only enough for two days, but we had only two hundred or so left, and there were not enough units.
除了口罩，其他物资也短缺。
In addition to masks, other supplies are in short supply.
我们一开始想给每个村、每个路口排查点都配一支电子测温计，但跑遍了镇上药店，还凑不到10支。
We started with an electronic thermometer for every village, every junction, but we ran through the town drugstore and couldn't scrape up 10.
过年那几天气温低，村干部守路口非常冷，我们从民政局领了几个救灾的帐篷，又想方设法从其他地方借了几个帐篷，但还远远不够，没分到帐篷的干部只能自己搭一个摆摊的棚子挡挡风，在棚子里给来往的村民登记。
During the Spring Festival, when the temperature was low and the village officials were very cold at the junction, we took some tents from the Civil Administration and tried to borrow some tents from other places, but not enough.
我们领导私底下跟我说，感觉对不起我们的村干部，亏欠他们了。
Our leader told me privately that he felt sorry for our village cadres and owed them a debt.
我们在后方，就是找物资、填表，他们在一线，要守路卡、要跟村民沟通，压力和风险是最大的。
We were in the rear, looking for supplies, filling out forms, they were on the front line, they had to guard the road, they had to communicate with the villagers, the most pressure and risk.
我们这种十八线小县城，居民一开始防护意识比较差，总觉得疫情是别的地方的事情，离我们这里很远，到镇里、村里就更差了。
We are a small 18-line county, the residents at the beginning of a relatively poor sense of protection, always feel that the epidemic is elsewhere things, far from us here, to the town, the village is worse.
即使有些年轻人比较关心时事，会关注网上的消息，但看到周围人都跟平时一样聚在一起聊天、打牌，他们也就放松了。
Even though some young people are more concerned about current affairs and pay attention to the news on the Internet, they relax when they see people around them chatting and playing cards as usual.
全靠乡干部、村干部抓得紧，大家的防护意识才提上来。
All rely on the township cadres, village cadres grasp the tight, everyone's sense of protection was raised.
像我们镇上，逢年过节经常有人聚在一起打麻将，派出所民警就紧盯着，一接到举报就去把麻将机砸了，通过这种方式震慑群众，禁止人员聚集。
As in our town, people often get together to play Mahjong at festivals, police station police are watching closely, as soon as received a report to smash Mahjong machine, through this way frighten the masses, prohibit people from gathering.
村里每天播放广播，发宣传资料。
The village broadcasts daily radio broadcasts and distributes propaganda materials.
最麻烦的是办红白事的，按农村习俗要摆酒，特别容易形成大规模聚集。
The most troublesome thing is to do red and white things, according to rural customs to put wine, especially easy to form large-scale aggregation.
我们让村里每天统计上报，谁家要办酒就上门做工作，让他们不要办。
We asked the village to report every day who wanted to run the wine, and asked them not to do it.
结婚办喜酒的一般还比较好说话，做做工作就同意推迟了；就怕遇到要办白喜事的，有些人思想上转不过弯，觉得不办酒没面子、对不起过世的亲人，村干部的工作就特别难做。
The wedding reception is generally easier to say, do work agreed to delay; for fear of the white-tie event, some people do not think the turn of the mind, do not face wine, sorry the deceased relatives, village cadres are particularly difficult to do.
有个村干部自己家里老人过世了，家里人要办酒，他挨个跟家族里的人解释、劝说，最后什么仪式都没搞，简单土葬了。
A village cadre own home old man died, the family wants to run the wine, he one by one with the family explained, persuaded, the last nothing did not do, simple burial.
他给抬棺的人开两倍工钱，向人家说明特殊时期不能请他们吃饭，请人家谅解。
He paid twice as much to the coffin bearer as to make it known that they could not be invited to dinner in special times.
直到出殡那天，他还守在村路口上。
He stayed at the village junction until the day of the funeral.
我们现在尽量寻找一个平衡点，既要阻断病毒传播，又不能影响居民正常生活。
We are now trying to find a balance between blocking the spread of the virus and not affecting the normal life of the residents.
前一阵县里发通知，要求“县与县隔断、镇与镇隔断、村与村隔断、户与户隔断”，上午都已经交给村干部在各村播放了，下午又紧急撤回，因为这样隔断造成的影响太大，本村和外村、本地村民和村干部都会发生矛盾。
A few days ago, the county issued a notice, "county and county cut off, town and town cut off, village and village cut off," the morning has been given to village cadres broadcast in the villages, and withdrawn in the afternoon, because the impact of the isolation is too great, the village and the village, local villagers and village cadres will be contradictory.
一个典型问题是集市。
A typical problem is the bazaar.
村里本来逢三、六、九，或者二、五、八，会集中赶集，这段时间为了防疫一律休市，对村民生活造成很大影响。
Every three, six, nine, or two, five, eight, the village will focus on the market, this time in order to prevent epidemic all over the rest of the city, the villagers have a great impact on life.
县城还有超市，农村全靠集市，把市场全封了，大家吃什么？那些靠养猪养鸡维生的老人，不让他们卖东西，他们怎么生活？县里也考虑到这些问题，这几天发布了关于农村复市的通告，但同时还要保证防疫工作，这就比直接封闭市场更难。
How did the county live by the fact that the old people who raised pigs and chickens to keep them from selling their food? The county took these issues into consideration and issued a notice these days on the re-opening of the rural areas, but also ensured immunization, which was more difficult than the direct closure of the market.
农历正月十五，全县的集市统一复市。
On the fifteenth day of the first month, the county's bazaars reunited.
那天早上五点，我们干部就分成三组，守在集市各个入口，外地商贩、鸡鸭等活禽一律不许入内，本地商贩也必须戴好口罩才能进入市场。
At five o'clock that morning, our cadres were divided into three groups, stationed at the entrances to the bazaar. No live poultry such as peddlers, chickens and ducks were allowed in, and local traders had to wear masks to enter the market.
由于提前几天就发了通知并反复宣传，来赶集的人基本都准备了口罩，有人戴着纱布口罩，有人戴着一次性口罩，虽然质量不那么好，总比没有好。
As a result of several days' notice and repeated publicity, the market participants have basically prepared masks, some wearing gauze masks, others wearing disposable masks, although the quality is not so good, better than no.
有一些六七十岁的老人家实在买不到口罩，我们就现场发一个，并且告诉他们下次一定要带，不然就不给进了。
Some 60 or 70-year-old people really can not buy masks, we send one on the spot, and told them to take next time, or it will not be admitted.
进场的摊点还要分散，不让他们距离太近。
The stalls will be scattered to keep them out of the way.
尽管如此，集市上还是有人没戴口罩，县政府派下来的督查组看到了就拍下来，发到政府工作群里，我们挨了批评。
Despite this, people did not wear masks at the fair, and when the county government sent inspectors to see them, they took pictures and sent them to the government work group, where we were criticized.
我心里想，难道你们不知道现在口罩多难买吗？一只合格的口罩都要卖到5块钱以上，一个老人家挑一担青菜到市场上卖，还指不定能卖几块钱，你能怪他们不戴口罩吗？像这样的事情，我们心里不是没有怨言的。
I wonder if you don't know how hard it is to buy a mask these days? You can't blame an old man for not wearing a mask when he sells it to the market for more than $5 for a qualified mask.
上面一波一波地来督查，有时候一天要接待好几波，无非是让我们坚守岗位，实际问题还是要靠我们基层自己解决。
Sometimes we have to deal with waves of people a day, just to keep us on the job, but the real problem is up to us at the grass-roots level.
其实我自己现在也很害怕，一颗心总是悬着的。
In fact, I am also very afraid now, a heart is always hanging.
因为我每天都要到各个村去转，接触几十个、上百个村干部，虽然我们镇目前还没有确诊，但也有潜在风险。
Because I have to go to every village every day, contact dozens, hundreds of village cadres, although our town has not yet been diagnosed, but there are potential risks.
有时候下了班，我都很犹豫要不要回家。
Sometimes when I leave work, I hesitate to go home.
家里人在家不出门，本来也许是安全的，但万一我接触了病毒，成了那个“B”，再把病毒传给他们，那就太可怕了。
It might have been safe for my family to stay at home, but it would have been terrible if I had come in contact with the virus, become the "B" and pass it on to them.
但是不回去又怎么办呢？有时候在网上看到有人抱怨关在家太闷，我真心羡慕，能待在家里多好啊。
But what if I don't go back? Sometimes I see someone complain about being cooped up at home. I really envy them. I wish I could stay at home.
都说疫情是一面镜子，这段时间，我感触最深的就是我们的基层干部真的辛苦，也真的尽责，虽然困难很多，他们仍然坚守在第一线上，保护着老百姓的生命安全。
All said that the epidemic is a mirror, this time, I feel the most is that our grassroots cadres really hard, but also true responsibility, although many difficulties, they still adhere to the front line, to protect the lives of civilians.
这面镜子也反映出一些问题，比如工作中形式主义太多，上级不接地气，只会下死命令、一刀切，任务层层下压，最后都落在我们基层公务员身上，已经形成一种惯性了。
This mirror also reflects some problems, such as the work of formalism too much, the higher-level ungrounded gas, will only under the dead command, one-size-fits-all, the task layer down, and finally fall on our grass-roots civil servants, has formed a kind of inertia.
最后，我希望督查组下次来检查工作的时候，不要带那么多表格，请给我们带一些口罩和酒精。
Finally, I hope the next time the inspector comes to check the work, don't bring so many forms. Please bring us some masks and alcohol.
后记：在基层干部的积极防疫下，小孙所在县现为湖南省感染案例最少的地区之一。
Postscript: In the grass-roots cadres under the active epidemic prevention, the county where the grandson is located is one of Hunan province with the fewest cases of infection.
截至发稿，小孙和同事仍在一线工作。
As of the writing, Sun and his colleagues are still working on the front line.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个县城基层干部的自述：五点守在路口，戴“三无口罩”工作。
A county town basic cadre's self-statement: five points at the junction, wearing "three no masks" work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "一个县城基层干部的自述：五点守在路口，戴“三无口罩”工作";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at five o'clock.
var msg_desc = "“我们现在尽量在寻找一个平衡点，既要阻断病毒传播，又不能影响居民正常生活”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "We are now trying to strike a balance between stopping the virus from spreading and not undermining resident service.";
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
