多省份明确：延迟开学时间可调整周末或压缩暑期补齐。
Many provinces are clear: Delay in starting classes can be adjusted by weekends or compressed summer vacations.
刘世龙。
Liu Shilong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国实习记者：刘世龙“ 受新冠肺炎疫情影响，全国各地都推迟了学校春季开学时间。
Photo: Visual China Intern: Liu Shilong "Affected by the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, schools across the country have postponed the start of the spring school year.
我国已有四川、广东、山西、山东、湖南、陕西等省份宣布，学校可通过调整周末和压缩暑假等方式来补齐教学课时。
China's Sichuan, Guangdong, Shanxi, Shandong, Hunan and Shaanxi provinces have announced that schools can adjust weekends and cut back on summer vacations.
”受新冠肺炎疫情影响，全国各地都推迟了学校春季开学时间。
Schools across the country have delayed the start of the spring school year because of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
目前多省份教育部门已明确，因延迟开学耽误的教学时间将通过调整周末和压缩暑期等方式来补齐。
At present, the education departments in many provinces have made it clear that the delay in starting classes will be compensated for by adjusting weekends and shortening summer vacations.
据中新网消息，四川省教育厅2020年2月13日发布《新冠肺炎疫情防控期间中小学教育教学组织与管理工作方案》，要求各地教育部门要认真评估推迟开学对春季学期教学活动的影响，研究制定延迟开学期间的学生学习组织工作方案，因延迟开学耽误的教学时间，可通过调整周末和暑期等方式补齐。
On February 13, 2020, the Sichuan Provincial Education Bureau issued the Program for Organization and Management of Primary and Secondary Education during the Prevention and Control of New Crowded Pneumonia, which requires local education departments to carefully assess the impact of the delay on academic activities during the spring term, and to study and formulate work plans for student learning organizations.
除了四川省，界面新闻注意到，此前我国已有广东、山西、山东、湖南、陕西等多个省份宣布，学校可通过调整周末和压缩暑假等方式来补齐教学课时。
In addition to Sichuan Province, the Interface News noted that China's provinces of Guangdong, Shanxi, Shandong, Hunan and Shaanxi have announced that schools will be able to supplement their teaching hours by adjusting weekends and shortening summer vacations.
比如在1月31日，山东省教育厅通知称，因延迟开学耽误的教学内容，将主要通过调减周末时间、压缩暑期假期等方式来补偿，以此保证总教学时长不减少。
For example, on January 31, the Shandong Provincial Education Bureau announced that the delay in starting classes would be compensated mainly by cutting back on weekends and cutting back on summer vacations, so as to ensure that total teaching hours are not reduced.
湖南省教育厅日前发布的通知则明确，因延迟开学耽误的教学时间，高三、初三年级可在2020年春季学期内通过调减周末及节假日时间补足，其他年级可通过压缩暑假假期补足。
According to a notice issued by Hunan Education Bureau, the third year of senior high school can be made up for by reducing weekend and holiday time during the spring semester of 2020 because of the delay in starting classes. Other grades can make up for this by cutting back on summer holidays.
新冠肺炎疫情发生后，1月27日，教育部曾下发《关于2020年春季学期延期开学的通知》，要求部属各高等学校应适当推迟2020年春季学期开学时间，其他地方所属院校、中小学校、幼儿园等学校春季学期开学时间，由当地教育行政部门按照地方党委和政府统一部署确定。
Following the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, on 27 January the Ministry of Education issued a circular on the postponement of the start of the spring term 2020, which required all higher education institutions to postpone the start of the 2020 spring term appropriately.
此后，各省份纷纷下发通知，对学校的开学时间进行了延迟调整。
Since then, the provinces have issued circulars that have delayed the opening of schools.
截止目前，除了云南、江西、辽宁、四川、河南等省份规定2月17日前不开学，其他省份则多是再次延迟开学时间到2月底，个别省份甚至规定延迟开学到3月份以后。
So far, with the exception of Yunnan, Jiangxi, Liaoning, Sichuan and Henan provinces, which have set a deadline of 17 February for the start of the school year, others have again delayed the start of classes until the end of February, and some provinces have even delayed the start of classes beyond March.
实际上，全国多地的学校已开始采取网络授课的方法“停课不停学”，以补齐教学进度，不过教育部和工信部2月12日发出通知要求，要避免学生网上学习时间过长，坚决防止超前过快学习，保护学生视力，同时，也要制止强行要求所有教师进行录播的现象，防止增加学生和老师不必要的负担。
In fact, schools across the country have started to use the Internet-based method of "non-stop learning," but the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Industry and Communications issued a notice on February 12 to avoid excessive online study hours, resolutely prevent students from learning too fast and protect their eyesight.
在此背景下，各地开始探索利用调整周末和暑假的方式来补齐被疫情耽误的教学时间。
In this context, the regions began to explore the use of weekend and summer adjustments to make up for the delayed teaching time of the epidemic.
不过，因为各地疫情严重程度不同，调整开学时间也面临着不确定性。
However, there is also uncertainty about the timing of the school year, given the severity of the epidemic in different locations.
浙江省教育厅2月14日在回应媒体询问时表示，是否压缩暑假等安排会等开学时间定了再进一步明确。
In response to media enquiries, Zhejiang Education Bureau said February 14, whether to shorten the summer vacation and other arrangements will wait until the start of school to further clarify.
也有个别地方明确表态不会压缩暑假，海南省海口市教育局局长2月4日在接受媒体采访时透露，对于延期开学是否会以缩短暑假时间的方式补齐耽误的课程，目前海南省还没有明确的方案出台，“个别省份提出过这样的做法，但海口暂无此打算”。
Some places have made it clear that they will not compress their summer vacations, the director of Hainan's Haikou Education Bureau told reporters on Feb. 4 that there is no clear plan in Hainan Province to shorten the summer vacation. "Some provinces have proposed this practice, but Haikou does not intend to do so."
据教育部网站资料，2003年抗击非典期间，教育部曾发出《关于做好中小学和幼儿园“非典”防治工作的通知》提出，学校可以调整假期或停课放假。
According to the Ministry of Education's website, during the 2003 fight against SARS, the Ministry of Education issued the Circular on the Prevention and Treatment of SARS in Schools and Kindergartens, which provides that schools may adjust their holidays or suspend them.
当时，北京、天津、河北、山西、内蒙古、宁夏、吉林、安徽等省（自治区、直辖市）的中小学从4月下旬起陆续停课。
Primary and secondary schools in the provinces of Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Jilin and Anhui provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) began to close in late April.
各地也是通过“空中课堂”等方式保证中小学停课不停学。
Everywhere also through the "air class" and other means to ensure that primary and secondary schools do not stop learning.
而对于今年高考是否会因为疫情推迟？教育部高校学生司司长王辉2月12日在新闻发布会上表示，当前距离高考还有将近四个月时间，教育部将密切关注疫情发展变化情况，会同相关部门及时评估疫情对组织考试可能产生的影响，审慎研究制定今年高考的具体实施方案。
The Ministry of Education (MOE) will pay close attention to the development of the epidemic situation, work with relevant departments to assess the possible impact of the epidemic on the organization of the examinations, and carefully study and formulate the implementation plan for this year's college entrance examination, "Wang Hui, the senior student secretary of the Ministry of Education, told a news conference.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
多省份明确：延迟开学时间可调整周末或压缩暑期补齐。
Many provinces are clear: Delay in starting classes can be adjusted by weekends or compressed summer vacations.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "多省份明确：延迟开学时间可调整周末或压缩暑期补齐";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "受新冠肺炎疫情影响，全国各地都推迟了学校春季开学时间。
var msg _ desc = & quot; delays in the spring school year across the country were caused by the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
我国已有四川、广东、山西、山东、湖南、陕西等省份宣布，学校可通过调整周末和压缩暑假等方式来补齐教学课时。
China's Sichuan, Guangdong, Shanxi, Shandong, Hunan and Shaanxi provinces have announced that schools can adjust weekends and cut back on summer vacations.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
