我在武汉开医护专车：无论生死，不谈报酬。
I drive a medical car in Wuhan: life and death, not pay.
何雾。
What fog?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
胡建斌刚刚结束一个订单。
Hu has just finished an order.
受访者供图记者：何雾  编辑：刘海川“ “所有留下来的人，要让自己真实。
Interviewee: Ho Fog Editor: Liu Haichuan "All those who stay should make themselves real.
病人住进病房，健康的人呆在屋里，医护上前线，我们行驶在街头上，这就是各司其职。
Patients are admitted to wards, healthy people stay indoors, doctors are on the front lines, we drive on the streets, and that's what we do.
””年轻的护士在清晨坐上胡建斌的车。
"The young nurse boarded Hu's car in the early morning.
乘客们的一天被缩减为紧张工作和居家休息两种状态，车内空间恰好位于两者之间。
Passengers' day was reduced to a state of intense work and rest at home, with space in between.
他们疲态尽显，尽量让自己松懈下来。
They showed signs of fatigue and tried to relax.
司机不会跟他的客人长谈。
The driver won't talk long with his guests.
彼此沉默，也是为了彼此保护。
Silence to each other, but also for mutual protection.
封城后武汉的日常景象，马路开阔，罕见行人。
Wuhan after the closure of the daily scene, wide roads, rare pedestrians.
客人在协和医院的正门下车。
Guests alighted at the main gate of Concorde Hospital.
她说：“谢谢你。
She said, "Thank you.
”这是胡建斌志愿加入“滴滴”医疗保障车队后的第一位客人。
This is Hu Jianbin volunteered to join the "drip" medical care team after the first guests.
他对此印象深刻。
He was impressed by this.
他也遇到过形色匆匆的客人，上车便失声痛哭。
He, too, had a hasty visitor, and got into the car, weeping bitterly.
“已经很多天没有休息了。
"" I haven't had a rest for days.
”他从后视镜看着她；“都会好的，都会过去的。
He looked at her in the rearview mirror.
”武汉封城后，机动车禁行令很快便清空了武汉的马路。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, motor vehicles quickly banned the road empty Wuhan.
疫情之下，胡建斌和200多名司机朋友选择站出来，试图保障这座巨型城市里的两条核心运输线：接送医护人员，社区居民的基本用车需求。
In the face of the epidemic, Mr. Hu and more than 200 drivers and friends chose to step forward to secure two of the city's core lines of transportation: transportation for health-care workers and basic car needs for community residents.
他们是在2020年1月24日“滴滴”发起征召令后分批加入的。
They joined in batches after a "drop-drop" call-up order was launched on January 24, 2020.
“滴滴”平台的程序员用31个小时完成了针对在汉约8000名认证医护工作者的特殊程序，将之植入APP后台。
In 31 hours, programmers on the Drop-Drop platform completed a special program for about 8,000 certified health-care workers in Han China, embedding them behind an APP.
滴滴已经专门设立2亿元的保障车队专项资金，保障车队及医务人员的车费，均由滴滴承担。
Ditto has set up a special fund of 200 million yuan to safeguard the fleet of vehicles and medical staff, all of which are borne by drip.
胡建斌被分配至接送医护人员的车队，并担任车队队长。
Hu Jianbin was assigned to the convoy carrying medical personnel and served as the team leader.
他们的辐射范围包括15家医院共25个院区。
Their radiation coverage includes 15 hospitals in a total of 25 districts.
他们通常需要每天工作18个小时。
They usually have to work 18 hours a day.
但运力仍然匮乏。
However, capacity remains scarce.
胡建斌便在微信朋友圈简述了自己的行为，并呼吁更多的司机朋友加入志愿者行列。
Hu then outlined his actions in the micro-letter circle of friends, and called for more drivers friends to join the ranks of volunteers.
“全凭自愿，越多越好。
"The more the willing, the better.
”这给他惹了大麻烦。
"This caused him great trouble.
大年初四的晚上，家住汉口的表姐打来电话。
On Thursday night, my cousin who lives in Hankou called me.
胡建斌听见她不停地喘气。
Hu heard her gasping for breath.
她和丈夫年过六旬，已发热、咳嗽多日，CT显示两人肺部发白。
She and her husband were over 60 and had had fever and coughing for days, and CT showed that their lungs were white.
表姐问：“车子还能不能动？”胡建斌沉默了一会儿。
Cousin asked: "Can the car still move?" Hu Jianbin was silent for a while.
“我的车，只能接送医护人员。
"My car can only carry paramedics.
”对方便也没有再坚持。
There was no insistence on convenience.
接下来的日子里，他也同样拒绝了一家四口患病的前同事，和妻子娘家的亲戚。
In the days that followed, he also rejected four sick former colleagues and relatives of his wife's family.
妻子埋怨他：“为什么要发朋友圈？现在把关系都弄僵了。
His wife complains, "Why do you have a circle of friends? It's killing me now."
”他也没再争执下去。
He did not argue any more.
胡建斌已经50岁了，生在青山，长在武昌，“老婆娘家在汉口”。
Hu Jianbin is 50 years old and was born in Qingshan and grew up in Wuchang.
他就像这个城市的缩影，少急性好义，“做过错事，也付出过代价”。
He is like the epitome of the city, less acute righteousness, "to do wrong, also paid the price."
1985年去武钢下属的带钢厂工作后，他每天骑着自行车上下班，“顺着大桥溜过去，就是工厂所在的汉阳古琴台”。
After going to the steel mill under WISCO in 1985, he rode his bike to and from work every day. "Sliding along the bridge is the Hanyang Guqin, where the factory is located."
1997年国企改制，他和同在武钢工作的妻子面临双职工必须下岗一个人的选择。
In 1997, when the state-owned enterprises were restructured, he and his wife, who also worked at WISCO, faced the choice of having to lay off their jobs.
他二话没说，从带钢厂拿了“工龄买断”走人。
He said nothing, from the steel mill took the "service years buyout" to leave.
“不能让婆娘下岗。
'She can't be laid off.
我出去闯。
I'm on my way.
”之后的日子里，胡建斌进了武汉当时最大的外企丝宝集团当销售。
In the days that followed, Mr. Hu joined Wuhan, the largest foreign company at the time, as a seller.
“大家都知道的那个感染病毒去世的志愿者何辉，就是我的顶头上司。
"The volunteer we all know who died of the virus, Ho Hui, was my immediate superior.
”胡建斌打开了昔日同事们的朋友圈，一一查看着人们在朋友圈里悼念何辉的文字。
"Mr. Hu opened the circle of friends of his former colleagues and studied the words as they mourned Ho Hui in a circle of friends.
“他以前是丝宝集团华南片区的老总，是公司的大功臣。
"He used to be the boss of the South China Section of the Sibao Group and a great credit to the company.
”两人分别离开丝宝集团后，再无多的来往。
"There was not much traffic after the two left the group.
噩耗传来，他原以为是同名同姓，“一打听才知道，就是何总。
When the bad news came, he thought he had the same name.
”他叹了口气，“我们来到这个世界上，有些人无声无息，有些人兴高采烈，有些人痛哭流涕。
"We come into this world," he sighed. "Some are silent, some are elated, some are crying.
但一切都会过去。
But it's gonna be over.
”胡建斌。
Hu Jianbin.
受访者供图这并不是他第一次直面灾难。
This is not the first time he has faced a disaster head on.
2015年，胡建斌在武汉一家口罩公司做销售。
In 2015, Mr. Hu worked as a sales executive at a Wuhan mask company.
天津发生“812滨海新区大爆炸”的时候，胡建斌当晚便领着同事，送去了40万只口罩。
When "812 Binhai New Area Big Bang" occurred in Tianjin, Hu Jianbin led his colleagues that evening and delivered 400,000 masks.
“在天津呆了一个星期，就是不停地给需要的人发口罩。
"A week in Tianjin is a constant effort to give people the masks they need.
”他顶了顶口罩的上沿，“没想到，我还有天天跟口罩作伴的时候。
'He put his mask on the top of it.' I didn't know I had to be with it every day.
”他将车停在了汉口一处小区的门口。
He parked his car in front of a small area in Hankou.
这是2月11日的下午，武汉的小区开始实行小区封闭管理。
This is February 11 afternoon, Wuhan began to implement the small district closed management.
稍作等待后，两个小伙子打开了车门。
After a moment's delay, the two boys opened the door.
他们都是长航医院的康复师。
They are all convalescent at Changhang Hospital.
疫情发生后，康复中心的医护人员们都被紧急安插到任何他们可以胜任的前线岗位上。
After the outbreak, the staff of the rehabilitation center were urgently placed in any front-line position they could handle.
两个年轻人被安排到后勤搬运物资。
Two young men were placed in logistics handling.
还有一位客人，是一名同济医院分院的护士，也被抽调到光谷院区，从事清洗可重复使用护具的工作。
Another guest, a nurse from the Tongji Hospital compound, was also transferred to the Guanggu compound to clean reusable protective gear.
“所有留下来的人，要让自己真实。
"" Let all who stay be true.
病人住进病房，健康的人呆在屋里，医护上前线，我们行驶在街头上，这就是各司其职。
Patients are admitted to wards, healthy people stay indoors, doctors are on the front lines, we drive on the streets, and that's what we do.
”他说，“这不是家园。
"said he," this is not home.
这就是我的家。
This is my home.
我们正在做的事，无论生死，不谈报酬。
What we are doing, life or death, is not a matter of pay.
”这个巨型城市曾经为堵所困，一场疫情让它安静下来。
The giant city had been trapped by an epidemic that calmed it down.
在接客人的途中，胡建斌偶尔感到孤独，“但这不重要。
On the way to pick up the guests, Mr. Hu occasionally felt lonely. "But it doesn't matter.
”而安静是重要的。
And silence is important.
他当然也会跟人发生争执。
Of course he has arguments with people.
11日这天早上6点半，胡建斌在小区门口被人拦了下来。
On the 11th morning at 6: 30, Hu Jianbin was stopped in front of the community.
拦住他的人，都是生面孔。
The people who stopped him were all fresh-faced.
胡建斌说，他有电子通行证，也有乘客发来的订单，但对方没有放行，场面陷入僵局。
Mr. Hu said he had an e-pass and orders from passengers who didn't let him through and the scene stalled.
最终，他说服了对方。
In the end, he persuaded the other side.
“这也是他们的职责。
"It's their job, too.
”胡建斌虽然感到无奈，也能理解对方。
Although Hu felt helpless, he could understand the other side.
就像他理解他的妻子一样。
Just as he understands his wife.
胡建斌形容妻子是典型的“武汉嫂子”：泼辣，善良，有时也对他的义举颇有怨言。
Hu described his wife as a typical "Wuhan sister-in-law": spiteful, kind-hearted, and sometimes complained about his righteousness.
儿子已经工作了，这段时间在家办公，已经20天没有下过楼。
My son had been working, working from home, and had not been downstairs for 20 days.
“本来就宅，正好遂了愿。
"The house itself, and I wish it were.
”他已经习惯了不吃早餐，中午也没空去吃饭——即便想吃，也不能轻松找到尚在营业的餐馆。
He was used to skipping breakfast, and had no time for lunch - or, if he wanted to, finding a restaurant that was still open.
同济医院中法院区附近是医疗保障车的集结地，同事有时会给他留一份志愿者们送来的花饭（蛋炒饭），胡建斌便在深夜把饭带回家中。
At Tongji Hospital, near the courthouse district, where health-care trucks are staging, colleagues sometimes leave him a piece of rice (scrambled eggs) from volunteers, and Hu takes it home late at night.
他会在门外脱下防护服，仔细地给鞋底消毒。
He would take off his suit outside the door and carefully disinfect the soles of his shoes.
屋里的灯还亮着，儿子已经睡了，妻子还等着他。
The light in the room was still on, his son was asleep and his wife was waiting for him.
他整个人松弛下来。
His whole person relaxes.
这个场景发生在这段日子里的每个凌晨。
The scene takes place in the wee hours of the day.
两人会拌拌嘴，就像武汉人日常生活那样。
Two people quarrel, just as Wuhan people do in their daily life.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在武汉开医护专车：无论生死，不谈报酬。
I drive a medical car in Wuhan: life and death, not pay.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "我在武汉开医护专车：无论生死，不谈报酬";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I drove my medical service in Wuhan: whether it's life or death, not to mention pay or quot;;
var msg_desc = "“所有留下来的人，要让自己真实。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "All those who stayed, make yourself real.
病人住进病房，健康的人呆在屋里，医护上前线，我们行驶在街头上，这就是各司其职。
Patients are admitted to wards, healthy people stay indoors, doctors are on the front lines, we drive on the streets, and that's what we do.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
