寻找“零号病人”：引发新冠病毒五国传播的新加坡会议之谜。
Finding Patient Zero: The Mystery of the Singapore Conference that Caused the Spread of the New Crown Virus Five.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者 ：安晶“ 只有找到传染源头才能确定传染链。
Source: Toothworm reporter: "Only find the source of infection can identify the transmission chain.
”1月20日到22日，来自全球各地的109名员工齐聚新加坡君悦酒店，参加英国气体分析仪器公司仕富梅（Servomex）的内部会议。
From January 20 to 22, 109 employees from around the world gathered at the Grand Hyatt Singapore for an internal conference at Servomex, the UK's gas analytics company.
期间，一个八人的舞狮团前往会场助兴，进行了5分钟左右的表演。
In the meantime, a troupe of eight lion dancers went to the venue for a five-minute or so performance.
就在这次常规的会议结束后一周多，参会的一名马来西亚员工被确诊感染新型冠状病毒。
Just over a week after the regular meeting, a Malaysian employee was diagnosed with the new coronavirus.
该男子的妹妹和岳母也被传染。
The man's sister and mother-in-law were also infected.
随后，与该男子曾一同用餐的两名韩国员工被确诊感染；四名新加坡员工也出现症状，其中三人已确诊。
Subsequently, two South Korean workers who had dined with the man were diagnosed with infection; four Singaporean staff members also developed symptoms, three of whom were diagnosed.
目前最广为人知的传染案例要数参会的英国员工沃尔什（Steve Walsh）。
The most widely known case of infection is that of Steve Walsh, a British employee who attended the meeting.
沃尔什离开新加坡后前往了法国滑雪胜地，后从日内瓦乘飞机返回英国。
Walsh left Singapore for a French ski resort and flew back to England from Geneva.
返回英国后在当地社区参加了瑜伽课，还去了一家酒吧。
After returning to England, he attended yoga classes in his local community and went to a bar.
最终，被确诊的沃尔什又传染了来自英国、法国和西班牙三国的11人。
Eventually, the confirmed Walsh infected 11 more people from Britain, France and Spain.
据《联合早报》和路透社2月13日报道，新加坡政府和世界卫生组织正在对君悦酒店的这次会议展开调查。
The Singapore government and the World Health Organization (WHO) are investigating the conference at the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
但截至目前，依然有一个关键问题没有解决：究竟谁是造成这场国际传染的“零号病人”。
But so far, one key question remains unanswered: who is the "patient zero" responsible for the international epidemic.
调查人员表示，找出“零号病人”非常重要，因为只有找到传染源头才能确定传染链。
Investigators say it is important to identify "patient number zero," because the chain of transmission can only be determined if the source of infection is found.
参加1月会议的109名员工中，仅有15人为新加坡当地人，其余94人分别来自中国、马来西亚、韩国、美国、日本以及欧洲国家。
Of the 109 staff attending the January meeting, only 15 were locals in Singapore, with the remaining 94 from China, Malaysia, South Korea, the United States, Japan and European countries.
这94人在会议结束后均已离开新加坡。
All 94 persons left Singapore after the meeting.
此前有一条看似明确的线索：参会的中国员工中有一人来自湖北武汉。
There appeared to be a clear clue that one of the Chinese employees attending the meeting was from Wuhan, Hubei Province.
但据仕富梅公司发言人透露的信息，参会的十多名中国员工没有一个确诊病例。
However, according to a spokesman for Shi Fumei, none of the more than a dozen Chinese workers who attended the meeting had a confirmed case.
新型冠状病毒感染后的潜伏期约为14天，而现在距离会议已经超过了14天。
The incubation period of the new coronavirus infection is about 14 days, but now it is more than 14 days away from the meeting.
据世卫组织的报告，截至2月13日，参加过会议的员工中共有七人被确诊。
As of February 13, seven staff members had been diagnosed, according to the WHO report.
其中新加坡三人、韩国两人、英国一人、马来西亚一人，没有中国员工。
There were three Singaporeans, two Koreans, one British, one Malaysian, and no Chinese staff.
图片来源：世卫组织最初的线索断了之后，除中国员工之外的其他员工在新加坡时的动向也成为了关注重点。
Source: The movement of staff in Singapore, other than Chinese, has also been the focus of attention since the WHO's first clue was broken.
据新加坡卫生部公布的信息，第一名确诊的马来西亚员工早在会议开始前的1月16日就抵达新加坡。
According to the Ministry of Health of Singapore, the first Malaysian employee to be confirmed arrived in Singapore as early as 16 January before the start of the meeting.
该员工曾游览过滨海湾花园，到克拉码头、乌节路等商场用餐。
The staff had visited the Waterfront Garden and dined in the markets of Kla Pier, Orchard Road, etc.
被确诊的两名韩国员工也提前两天、于1月18日抵达新加坡。
The two South Korean workers who were diagnosed also arrived in Singapore two days earlier, on January 18.
其中一名韩国员工还与马来西亚员工一同用餐。
One South Korean employee also dines with Malaysian workers.
图片来源：联合早报与此同时，在会议开幕当天到现场助兴的舞狮团队和君悦酒店也成为了关注对象。
Source: Lianhe Zaobao at the same time, the opening day of the meeting to the scene to boost the team and the Grand Hyatt hotel has become the object of attention.
舞狮团团长表示，当时的舞狮表演仅进行了五分钟左右。
The lion dance captain said the lion dance took only about five minutes.
打鼓的团员在会场外，进入会场的团员戴着狮头和狮身，没有直接与参会者接触、也没有与他们一同用餐。
Outside the meeting, the drummers wore lion heads and sphinxes and did not have direct contact with the participants or dine with them.
这名团长在2月7日接受采访时指出，参加1月20日表演的团员至今没有出现症状。
In an interview on 7 February, the Head of Mission stated that the participants in the 20 January performance had so far shown no symptoms.
但以防万一，团员随后还将进行体检。
But just in case, the regimental members will conduct a medical check-up later.
君悦酒店则表示，酒店员工目前没有人出现新型冠状病毒感染症状。
The Grand Hyatt Hotel says no one at the hotel has any new coronavirus infection.
进出酒店的员工和承包商每天都会进行体温测量。
Staff and contractors entering and leaving the hotel take temperature measurements every day.
管理人员称，自从1月的会议出现疫情后，酒店进行了深度清洁，还聘请专门机构对可能受影响的客房进行彻底消毒。
Managers say the hotel has been thoroughly cleaned since the January meeting and has hired specialized agencies to thoroughly disinfect rooms that could be affected.
而直到现在，酒店依然不知道参会人员到底是“如何、在哪里、什么时候”被感染的。
But until now, the hotel still does not know the participants are "how, where, when" infected.
世卫组织认为，目前判断君悦酒店事件是否构成“超级传播事件”为时尚早。
WHO believes it is too early to say whether the Hyatt Regency incident constitutes a "super-contagion event."
世卫组织全球疫情和警报响应网络主席费舍尔（Dale Fisher）坦言，无法找到传染的源头“确实让我们不安”，而不知道源头所在将使防控措施的效果减弱。
Dale Fisher, president of the WHO Global Outbreak and Alert Response Network, concedes that failure to find the source of the infection "really disturbs us," without knowing where the source will make the containment effort less effective.
新加坡国立大学传染病研究专家覃毕雅（Paul Tambyah）则推测，传染源可能是参会者之外的人，“大家都认为是参会者，但也可能是清洁工、招待”等其他人。
Paul Tambyah, an infectious diseases specialist at the National University of Singapore, speculates that the source of the infection may be someone other than the attendees, "who everyone agrees is a participant, but may also be a cleaner, a waitress," and others.
新加坡卫生部长颜金勇已经表示，当局将继续追查此次事件的“零号病人”，直至疫情结束。
Singapore's health minister, Kim Yong, has said authorities will continue to pursue case zero until the outbreak is over.
但随着时间的推移，追查工作的难度将越来越大。
Over time, however, tracing will become increasingly difficult.
颜金勇承认，另一种结果是“我们可能永远都无法找到零号病人”。
Another result, Mr. Yan admits, is that "we may never be able to find patient number zero."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
寻找“零号病人”：引发新冠病毒五国传播的新加坡会议之谜。
Finding Patient Zero: The Mystery of the Singapore Conference that Caused the Spread of the New Crown Virus Five.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "寻找“零号病人”：引发新冠病毒五国传播的新加坡会议之谜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "只有找到传染源头才能确定传染链。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; the chain of transmission can only be established if the source of infection is found.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
