企业复工需缴10万元保证金？ 连云港经开区：若企业无疫情发生全额返还_界面新闻的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥/* declared */。
Enterprises need to pay 100000 yuan deposit for resuming work? Lianyungang Economic Zone: If there is no epidemic in the enterprise return _ full interface news column _ micro-letter article _ What do you see today / * decled * /.
企业复工需缴10万元保证金？ 连云港经开区：若企业无疫情发生全额返还_界面新闻的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥<br>。
A deposit of $100,000 is required for a company to resume work? Lianyungang via Kaesong: AT & amp; # 39; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
| title       = 企业复工需缴10万元保证金？ 连云港经开区：若企业无疫情发生全额返还_界面新闻的专栏文章_微信文章_今天看啥。
A deposit of $100,000 is required for the company to resume work? Lianyungang via Kaesong: What do you see today in a column about _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ news if there is no outbreak of disease?
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
专栏名称: 界面新闻。
Column name: Interface News.
界面是中国最大的商业新闻和社交平台，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface is China's largest business news and social platform, serving only the independent thinking of the crowd.
。
.
我也要提交微信公众号。
I would also like to submit a tweets public number.
分享。
Share.
目录。
Catalogue.
相关文章推荐。
Related articles are recommended.
昨天 。
Yesterday.
顾扯淡。
Gu bullshit.
我没看懂，真这样警察不管吗[費解]-2020 ...·。
I didn't understand. Was it really the case that the police did not?
昨天 。
Yesterday.
顾扯淡。
Gu bullshit.
这个就舒服多了//@我的样子平平无奇: ...·。
This is much more comfortable / / @ My look is nothing new:...
昨天 。
Yesterday.
新世相。
The New World.
这个疫情期的网红，今天我劝你为它花钱·。
This epidemic period net red, today I advise you to spend money for it.
2 天前 。
Two days ago.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
湖北：一线医务人员子女参加2020年中考加1 ...·。
HUBEI: The children of front-line medical staff will take part in the 2020 mid-term exam.
2 天前 。
Two days ago.
今天看啥。
What are you looking at today.
专栏。
Columns.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
企业复工需缴10万元保证金？ 连云港经开区：若企业无疫情发生全额返还。
Enterprises need to pay 100000 yuan deposit for the resumption of work? Lianyungang through the open area: if the enterprise does not have full return of the epidemic.
界面新闻 ·。
Interface News.
公众号 ·。
Public Number.
热门自媒体。
Hot from the media.
图片来源：连云港经开区官网记者：牛其昌“ 据连云港经开区管委会相关工作人员证实，区内所有企业如需复工，必须走相应的报送流程，待管委会研究同意复工之后，企业法人再缴纳保证金。
Photo: Lianyungang through the open area reporter: Niuqichang "According to the relevant staff of Lianyungang Economic Management Committee confirmed that if all enterprises in the region need to resume work, they must go through the corresponding reporting procedures, until the management committee agreed to resume work, the enterprise legal person to pay the deposit.
公共卫生事件一级响应结束后，若企业无疫情发生，保证金全额返还。
When the first-level response to a public health event is over, the deposit is returned in full if no outbreak occurs.
”近日，网传一份连云港市经济技术开发区管委会要求企业缴纳“复工保证金”的文件引发关注。
Recently, online rumors of a Lianyungang City Economic and Technological Development Zone management committee required enterprises to pay "return to work bond" documents aroused concern.
这份抬头为“关于企业复产保证金相关问题说明”的文件要求，企业法人代表需个人向区防控办（区财政局账户）上缴保证金10万元。
The document, entitled "Statement of Issues Relating to the Resumption of Production Margin," requires that the legal representative of the enterprise personally deposit 100,000 yuan with the District Financial Bureau account.
另外，企业车间主任保证金5万元，班组长保证金2万元，职工个人2个月工资，需上缴到企业自己的防控办。
In addition, the director of the enterprise car deposit 50,000 yuan, team leader margin 20,000 yuan, workers and staff 2 months, need to turn over to the enterprise's own control office.
上述文件还明确了保证金的动用条款：职工上下班期间没有佩戴口罩的，发现一起，职工个人和企业分别罚款1000元、1万元，全额用于全区或企业疫情防控工作。
The above-mentioned documents also specify the terms of use of the deposit: workers who do not wear face masks during the commute, found that one, individual workers and enterprises respectively fine 1,000 yuan and 10,000 yuan, the full amount for the prevention and control of epidemic diseases in the region or enterprises.
2020年2月14日，连云港市长热线相关工作人员向界面新闻表示，经与连云港经济开发区管委会核实，上述文件属实，细则是由连云港经济开发区疫情联防联控办公室制定。
On February 14, 2020, Lianyungang city director hotline staff told the interface news, after checking with Lianyungang Economic Development Zone management committee, the document is true, the details of the epidemic prevention and control office of Lianyungang Economic Development Zone.
谈及企业复工是否必须上缴保证金时，该工作人员表示，“既然是下达的文件，就是需要缴纳的。
Referring to whether the company must return to work with a bond, the staff member said, "since it is issued documents, it is required to pay.
”随后，界面新闻以企业法人身份咨询经开区管委会经济发展局相关工作人员，对方亦证实称，区内所有企业如需复工，都必须走相应的报送流程，待管委会研究同意复工之后，企业法人再缴纳保证金。
Subsequently, the Interface News consulted with the relevant staff of the Economic Development Bureau of the Kaesong District Management Committee as a corporate body. The other party also confirmed that all enterprises in the region who wish to resume work have to follow the corresponding reporting procedures and pay the deposit after the MC has considered and agreed to resume work.
“企业复工需要先填写复工申请表，复工承诺书及复工方案等，提交之后会有专人去现场核实，主要是确保企业有没有制定防控预案，有没有成立领导小组，防控物资准备怎么样这些问题。
"When a company resumes work, it needs to fill out an application form, a written commitment to return to work and a work plan, etc., and then someone will go to the site to verify that the company has made a plan for prevention and control, whether a leading group has been set up and how the materials are prepared.
”上述连云港经开区管委会经济发展局工作人员表示。
Lianyungang through the Kaesong District Economic Development Bureau staff said.
连云港经开区管委会官网发布的通告显示，目前开发区正在分批次有序开展企业复工工作，企业复工应提供以下材料包括：疫情防控工作方案（重点内容：防控领导小组、责任分工、排查制度、日常管控、后勤保障、应急处置等内容，要细化落实到车间、班组，明确专人负责）、复工方案（重点内容：领导带班落实、人员排查防护、厂区环境消杀、防护物资储备、隔离区设置、设备检修维护、安全环保措施等内容）、复工申请表、复工承诺书、复工人员花名册。
At present, enterprises should provide the following materials: work plan for prevention and control of epidemic diseases (key contents: leading group for prevention and control, division of responsibilities, inspection system, daily control, logistic support, emergency disposal, etc.), resume work plan (key contents: leader shift implementation, personnel protection, factory environment elimination, protection stock, equipment repair and maintenance, safety and environmental protection measures, etc.).
所有材料加盖公章后报送经开区经济发展局。
All materials are stamped and sent to the Economic Development Bureau of Kaesong District.
其中，“复工承诺书”中明确，“若因我公司提供虚假信息，相关措施未落实到位，由此产生的一切后果由我公司自行承担。
Among them, the "Return to Work Undertaking" made it clear that "if the relevant measures are not put in place because of the false information provided by our company, all the consequences will be borne by our company."
企业法人向区防控办上缴保证金10万元”。
Enterprise legal person to district control office to deposit 100,000 yuan deposit. "
2月14日，针对企业复工需上缴保证金的做法，连云港经开区防控办在其官网发布了一份情况说明。
On 14 February, in response to the return of enterprises to pay the deposit, Lianyungang through the Kaesong District Office of Prevention and Control issued an information note on its official website.
该说明提到，随着企业复产逐步展开，企业疫情防控工作也面临着严峻形势和巨大压力。
The note mentioned that as enterprises resume production, the prevention and control of the epidemic situation of enterprises is also facing a severe situation and tremendous pressure.
为进一步压实企业主要负责人的疫情防控第一责任，开发区防控办多次召开座谈会，听取企业意见建议，拟在疫情防控期间，试行企业复产法人代表保证金制度，动员企业法人代表以个人名义向区防控办缴纳一定数额的保证金（不接受企业缴款）。
In order to further consolidate the primary responsibility for disease prevention and control of enterprises, the Development Zone Office has held seminars and received suggestions from enterprises. During the period of disease prevention and control, it is proposed to try out a deposit system for corporate representatives of enterprises to resume production and mobilize corporate representatives to pay a certain amount of deposit (not accepting corporate contributions) to the District Prevention and Control Office as individuals.
上述情况说明强调，公共卫生事件一级响应结束后，若企业无疫情发生，保证金全额返还。
The above notes emphasize that the public health event level response, if no outbreak of the enterprise, the full refund of the margin.
同时，为将责任层层传递到位，进一步增强职工防控意识，落实防护措施，建议企业内部可参照此做法，视情试行。
At the same time, in order to pass on the responsibility layer by layer, further enhance the awareness of staff prevention and control, implement protective measures, enterprises may refer to this practice, according to the circumstances.
目前该方案正在征求意见。
The programme is currently being consulted.
公开资料显示，连云港经济技术开发区位于连云港市东部城区，是1984年12月经国务院批准设立的首批国家级开发区，下辖宋跳高新技术产业开发区、大浦化工区，目前建成了医药、纺织、电子、化工、食品、机械、建材等一批大中型企业，有4个国家重点高新技术企业，8个省级高新技术企业，9个在国内同行业排名第一的企业。
The Lianyungang Economic and Technological Development Zone, located in the eastern part of Lianyungang City, was the first state-level development zones approved by the State Council in December 1984.
。
.
阅读原文。
Read the original text.
今天看啥 - 。
What are you looking at today?
本文地址：http://www.jintiankansha.me/t/B3IbBKaYj7。
Address: http: / / www.jintiankansha.me / t / B3IbBKaYj7.
分享到。
Share it.
推荐文章。
Recommend articles.
阑夕。
Appendicular.
【#800万女生报复性撸妆# ，美妆主播复工3小时顶半年】你知道-20200220140831。
get back to work 3 hours and half a year You know -20200220140831.
11 小时前。
Eleven hours ago.
纯银V。
Pure silver V.
清迈这个地方啊，到处都是按摩店，最便宜的路边凉棚按摩店 120 -20200220140358。
Chiangmai is a place full of massage parlours, the cheapest roadside massage parlour 120-20200220140358.
11 小时前。
Eleven hours ago.
来去之间。
Between you and me.
//@羽隹大人:王辰院士说，这个病毒一直存在也是有可能的，要做好-20200219233625。
/ / Good lord: Academician Wang Chen says it is still possible and possible for the virus to exist. Do it well - 20200219233625.
昨天。
Yesterday.
昨天。
Yesterday.
来去之间。
Between you and me.
//@死水一潭__L:哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈翻过来还是up是什么 你没-20200218175407。
/ / @ Dead water pool _ _ L: Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha or up What are you not -20200218175407
2 天前。
Two days ago.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
生产销售问题医用口罩，最高可判处无期徒刑。
The maximum penalty for the production and sale of problem medical masks is life imprisonment.
3 天前。
Three days ago.
来去之间。
Between you and me.
#武汉日记#-20200217013441。
# Wuhan Diary # - 20200217013441.
4 天前。
Four days ago.
来去之间。
Between you and me.
不用谢我，谢@阑夕 老师 查看图片 //@小清新文字吧:谢谢来总-20200216233414。
Don't thank me, Xie @ Appendia Teacher Check the picture / / @ small fresh text: Thank you for always-20200216233414.
4 天前。
Four days ago.
GQ实验室。
GQ laboratory.
隔离在家办公，第一批人已疯。
Working in isolation from home, the first people went crazy.
4 天前。
Four days ago.
公路商店。
Road store.
酒喝光的第18天....。
Eighteenth day of drinking.
4 天前。
Four days ago.
关于。
About.
移动版。
Mobile version.
SoV5搜索。
SoV5 search.
Python社区。
Python community.
Link管理。
Link Management.
三行代码。
Three lines.
今天看啥 - 让阅读更高品质。
See what today - make reading more high quality.
© 2019 ~ 沪ICP备11025650号。
Zen 2019 ~ Shanghai ICP Readiness 11025650.
