“有强烈无力感，在为定点医院床位不够买单” ——武汉社区医院主任自述。
"There is a strong sense of powerlessness, in the point of not enough hospital beds to pay for" - Wuhan Community Hospital Director self-described.
谭畅。
Tan Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月30日，医护人员在工作间隙为自己鼓劲打气。
On January 30, health care workers gave themselves a pep talk between jobs.
（新华社 陈晨/图）全文共3942字，阅读大约需要9分钟。
The full text is 3,942 words and takes about nine minutes to read.
据我所知，有的社区医院医生已经被打了，这让我们很心寒。
As far as I know, some of the community hospital doctors have been beaten, which makes us very cold.
我们一天接几十个咨询电话，这没有问题，但我们接到的电话有时候是侮辱性的。
We answer dozens of calls a day, no problem, but the calls we receive are sometimes insulting.
电话里说，你们不管我们，我们就把病人扔到你们医院，朝你们护士吐口水……我们真正的压力其实在这里。
The phone says, you don't care about us, we throw patients into your hospital, spit on your nurses... our real pressure is really here.
这次我们从一月初就开始储备物资。
We have been stockpiling supplies since the beginning of January this time.
首先我要后勤给食堂抢购了一批食物，后来我在定点医院的师兄弟告诉我有医护人员感染，我又抢购防护用品，像N95口罩我准备了一万个。
First, I had to run through a mess of food for the canteen, And then my brother at the appointed hospital told me that some paramedics were infected, and I snapped up protective gear like N95 masks I got 10,000.
这两天来我们中心分诊的病人发生了一些变化，发热病人中的疑似病例在下降，但是不发热的疑似病例在增多。
Over the past two days there has been some change in the number of patients admitted to our centre, and the number of suspected cases among febrile patients is decreasing, but the number of suspected cases of fever is increasing.
我们给一些不发热病人检测以后，发现除了发热不吻合，其他三项都吻合——白细胞不高，淋巴细胞降低，肺部有毛玻璃一样的改变。
When we tested a few non-febrile patients, all three matched except for fever, which was not high, lymphocytes were lowered, and the lungs changed like glass.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 谭畅南方周末实习生 李佩云责任编辑 | 何海宁2020年1月24日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第7号通告，对全市发热市民进行分级分类诊疗筛查，由社区进行初筛诊断。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce South Weekend reporter Tan Chang Southern Weekend Intern Li Peiyun Responsibility Editor & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; On January 24, 2020, Wuhan's New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Notice No. 7, classifying and screening febrile citizens throughout the city and making a primary screening by the community.
自此，武汉市两百余家社区卫生服务中心也成为战“疫”的第一线。
Since then, Wuhan City, more than 200 community health services centres have also become the front line of the "epidemic."
一周过后，南方周末记者连线采访了四家社区卫生服务中心的“掌门人”，听他们自述个中甘苦。
A week later, Southern Weekend reporter wire interview four community health service center "master", listen to their own account of the joys and hardships.
他们的所作所为和所见所思，勾勒出在这场新冠肺炎疫情中，医疗系统的毛细血管真实运作的图景。
What they do, what they see, what they think, give a picture of the true workings of the capillaries of the health-care system in this new crown pneumonia epidemic.
1“矛盾在我们这里激化了”秦琪（化名）武汉某社区卫生服务中心主任我们作为一个基层的社区卫生服务中心，之前对这种传染病的接诊能力基本上是没有的。
"The conflict has intensified here," Qin Qi (alias), director of a community health service center in Wuhan As a grass-roots community health service center, we previously had little capacity to treat the epidemic.
卫健委这次突然指定我们社区医院作为分诊单位，对我们而言是一个很大的考验。
Wei Jianliang this sudden designation of our community hospital as a sub-unit, for us is a great test.
在没有防护的情况下，我们立刻成立了分诊台，发热病人只要来了我们都不推诿，连轴转。
In the absence of protection, we immediately set up a clinic, fever patients as long as we do not prevaricate, connecting axis.
从大年初一（2020年1月25日）早上开完会，一直到昨天（1月31日）下午，我们工作量比平时翻了很多倍，我们也不觉得累，能为武汉市尽一份职责，我们很骄傲。
From the morning of the New Year's Day (January 25, 2020) to the afternoon of yesterday (January 31), we have many times more workload than usual, we do not feel tired, can do a duty for Wuhan, we are very proud.
但是现在……我们不是因为工作量大而伤心，我们是（因为）经常被病人骚扰。
But now... we're not sad because of the workload, we're often harassed by patients.
30日那天有篇媒体报道出来，说社区医院会给疑似病人开转诊单，然后调度车辆送到指定医院。
An article in the media on the 30th said the community hospital would issue a referral form to the suspected patient and then dispatch the vehicle to a designated hospital.
我马上问卫健委领导，哪里有“转诊单”这回事？后来我把这篇文章给举报了，因为它介绍的情况和我们现有流程是不符合的，我不愿意我的居民朋友被误导。
I immediately asked the health committee leadership, where there is a "referral list"? Later I reported this article, because it describes the situation and our existing process is not consistent, I do not want my resident friends to be misled.
果然，这文章一发，第二天来我们这里闹的病人就有四个。
Sure enough, four patients came to our house the next day after this article.
按照流程，我们只能在病历上写“转发热门诊”，但是我们和定点医院是没有对接的。
According to the procedure, we can only write "forward heat clinic" on the medical record, but we do not docking with the designated hospital.
定点医院不够，发热病人找不到病床，就认为社区应该负责，居委会干事和社区卫生服务中心应该送他去看病。
The lack of designated hospitals and the inability of febrile patients to find beds led to the belief that the community was responsible and that neighbourhood officers and community health centres should send him to see a doctor.
他们的心情我们能理解，但是现在矛盾确实就积压到我们这里，在我们这里激化了。
We can understand their feelings, but now the conflict is really piling up here, here we are sharpening.
据我所知，有的社区医院医生已经被打了，这让我们很心寒。
As far as I know, some of the community hospital doctors have been beaten, which makes us very cold.
我们一天接几十个咨询电话，这没有问题，但我们接到的电话有时候是侮辱性的。
We answer dozens of calls a day, no problem, but the calls we receive are sometimes insulting.
电话里说，你们不管我们，我们就把病人扔到你们医院，朝你们护士吐口水……我们真正的压力其实在这里。
The phone says, you don't care about us, we throw patients into your hospital, spit on your nurses... our real pressure is really here.
我们每天其实有很强烈的无力感。
We actually have a strong sense of powerlessness every day.
定点医院床位不够这个突出问题，现在由我们社区医院、居委会在为此买单。
The outstanding problem of insufficient beds in designated hospitals is being paid for by our community hospitals and neighborhood committees.
这一次，基层医疗机构起了很大作用。
This time, the primary health care institutions have played a big role.
我们在电话里安抚了很多病人，也分诊了很多轻症病人，指导他们居家观察，不要到发热门诊，减少感染风险。
We comforted many patients over the phone and treated many light patients, directing them to watch from home, not to the fever clinic, to reduce the risk of infection.
但后期问题解决不了，我们前期工作做再好也白费。
But later problems can not be solved, we can do the previous work again in vain.
每次有新的定点医院出来，我都拼命打电话，想帮我们手上住不了院的病人留床位。
Every time a new designated hospital comes out, I make desperate calls to help us save beds for patients who can't stay in the hospital.
但是公开电话都打不进去，只能自己努力找熟人。
But the public phone can not be opened, only their own efforts to find acquaintances.
我们也想帮病人解决问题，但实在是太超出我们的能力了。
We also want to help patients solve problems, but it is too much for us.
结果病人质疑我们，说我们故意要把床位留给自己人……我们不怕做事情，但我们怕被冤枉。
The patient questioned us, saying that we had deliberately left our beds for our own people... We were not afraid to do anything, but we were afraid of being wronged.
可能火神山、雷神山医院建起来了，情况会好很多吧。
Maybe the fire god mountain, thunder Shenshan hospital has been built, the situation will be much better.
我知道很多基层医生现在都很崩溃，有的为了节省防护服，一整天不敢吃、不敢喝。
I know a lot of primary doctors are breaking down now, some to save protective clothing, dare not eat, dare not drink all day.
因为我们还要上门随访，本来根据规定，上一家随访完再到下一家需要换新的防护服，否则我们自己就成了移动的传染源。
Because we have to follow up home, according to the rules, the last visit to the next need to replace the protective clothing, otherwise we have become a source of mobile infection.
但现在物资缺乏，做不到。
But we are short of material resources to do so.
这次疫情也非常考验我们基层医生的水平和胆量。
This outbreak also very much tests our basic level doctor's level and the courage.
前几天社区有个老人在家去世，他没有确诊，但以防万一，社区要求我们上门去处理尸体。
The other day there was an old man in the community who died at home. He was undiagnosed, but the community asked us to come and dispose of the body just in case.
我和公卫科主任两个人过去，用消毒的棉球把他七窍封起来，用床单打包，再给他房间全部消毒。
The Director of Public Health and I went over and sealed his seven tricks with sterile cotton balls, wrapped the sheets and disinfected his room.
这么专业的事情，我们以前从没干过。
This is a professional thing we've never done before.
2“一月初听到消息，抢购一万个N95口罩”谭伟 洪山区青菱街社区卫生服务中心主任我们是武汉市最大的社区卫生服务中心，有二级医院的资质，三百多名职工。
We are the largest community health service center in Wuhan. We have the qualifications of a level-II hospital and more than 300 staff.
我们辖区内的户籍人口、流动人口加起来接近20万，流动人口多，管理复杂。
The total population of household registration and floating population in our jurisdiction is close to 200,000, with large floating population and complicated management.
因为就在高速路口，有时候高速上下来一个病人，他管不了你只是个社区医院，病都要你看，逼着我们把医疗能力提高了。
Because right at the intersection, sometimes a patient comes down at high speed, he can't care about you being just a community hospital, sick want you to see, forcing us to improve our medical capabilities.
这次我们从一月初就开始储备物资。
We have been stockpiling supplies since the beginning of January this time.
我是湖北省医学影像专业委员会的副主委，又兼任三级医院影像科的学科带头人，所以我知道消息比别人早。
I was the vice-chairman of Hubei Medical Imaging Commission, and I was also the subject leader of the imaging department of the tertiary hospital, so I knew the news was earlier than others.
首先我要后勤给食堂抢购了一批食物，后来我在定点医院的师兄弟告诉我有医护人员感染，我又抢购防护用品。
First, I had to supply the canteen with a lot of food, and then my brother at the appointed hospital told me that there was an infection and I snapped up protective gear.
像N95口罩我准备了一万个，平常一个7块钱，我抢的时候最高价是20块，再后来就买不到了。
Like the N95 mask I had, like, ten thousand, usually a seven-dollar one, and the highest I got was $20, and then I couldn't buy it.
因为有这个敏感性，我们的防护可能在社区（医院）里面是最好的。
Because of this sensitivity, our protection is probably the best in the community.
到一月十几日，（武汉市）卫健委开始布置我们做网格管理。
To January 10, (Wuhan City) Wei Bodyguard Commission began to decorate us to do grid management.
但当时管理得并不紧，只是让我们给发热病人做个登记，登记完了就完了。
But then the management was not tight, just let us register the febrile patients, the end of the registration.
市里也没有定我们为发热门诊，但我们的位置又很特殊，周围半径七公里没有其他二级、三级医院，那我们就开设了呼吸疾病门诊，给普通的发热病人做治疗。
The city has not designated us as a fever clinic, but our position is very special, a radius of seven kilometers around no other level II and III hospitals, we opened a respiratory disease clinic to treat common febrile patients.
到（1月）23日，发热病人就瞬间增长了，一天要看发热病人一百多个。
By January 23, the feverish patient grew instantaneously, viewing more than a hundred febrile patients a day.
先给他们做实验室检测，再做CT，逐步发现疑似病例越来越多。
First they do laboratory tests, and then CT, gradually found more and more suspected cases.
大年二十八，接到政府任务，取消所有休假。
About twenty-eight years old, received a government mission to cancel all leave.
有的人是之前已经回老家了，另外还要把怀孕、哺乳期的女同志剔除出来，最后我们集结了270多号人。
Some people have already returned home before, in addition to pregnant and nursing female gay cull out, we finally gathered more than 270 people.
最忙就是大年初一。
The busiest is New Year's Day.
因为武汉市发热病人剧增，政府要把新冠治疗的定点医院扩大。
Due to the sudden increase of fever patients in Wuhan, the government will be the new crown treatment point hospital to expand.
那些医院里原来有一些住院病人，就要转移出去。
There used to be some inpatients in those hospitals and they were going to be moved.
我们从两个三甲医院转运了一百多个住院病人，其中有刚做完手术从ICU转出来的，另外还新增了五十个重症透析的病人。
We transferred more than a hundred in-patients from the two triple-A hospitals, including those who had just undergone surgery to be removed from the ICU, as well as fifty new patients undergoing severe dialysis.
这样医疗压力就非常大了，原来我们是不会收（病情）这么重的病人的。
So the medical pressure is very big, originally we won't accept the patient so heavy.
不过我们也和三甲医院沟通好了，我们做不了的手术还是让他们的医生亲自过来做。
However, we also communicate with Sanjia Hospital, we can not do the surgery or let their doctor come over to do it.
从初一到初三，每天来的发热病人还有一百多人，最多的一天我们给160人做了CT检查。
From the first to the third day of junior high school, every day there are more than 100 febrile patients, the most day we gave 160 people CT examination.
做CT发现肺部有改变的疑似病例的比例，从20%升到30%，最高是初三那天到了50%。
The proportion of suspected cases of lung changes detected by CT rose from 20% to 30%, with the highest being 50% on the third day of junior high.
发现疑似要转到发热门诊和定点医院，但一直到初三，这都是很难的。
Suspected transfer to a fever clinic and a designated hospital was found, but it was difficult until the third day of junior high school.
床位还没扩容，都住满了。
The beds are full before they are expanded.
而且疑似病例必须救护车送，但救护车根本没有（空闲的），只能我们给他们一些药，让他们回家去隔离。
And suspected cases have to be transported by ambulance, but ambulances have no (idle), we can only give them some medicine, let them go home to quarantine.
那是武汉最混乱的几天。
It was the most chaotic few days in Wuhan.
到初四情况就好些了。
Things will be better by the fourth day of junior high.
武汉市要求各个区建立隔离点，洪山区有三个，其中有一个是一栋酒店，交给公安、我们和街道。
Wuhan city called for the establishment of isolation points in all districts, Hongshan District there are three, one of which is a hotel, to the public security, we and the streets.
当天给了半个小时让我准备人和物资去接收这个隔离点，我在里面划分了隔离区域和医护人员、工作人员区域，派进去16名职工，三班倒。
I was given half an hour that day to prepare people and supplies to receive the quarantine, and I divided the area and the staff area into which 16 workers were assigned, three shifts.
一个晚上，我们把散居的疑似病人和发热病人集中到隔离点，每个人一间房，现在里面有将近一百人。
One night, we gathered scattered suspected and febrile patients into a single room for each person, and now there are nearly a hundred people in it.
政府给他们提供吃的，我们每天上午给他们做检测，提供一些抗病毒的药。
The government provides them with food, we test them every morning, and we offer them some antiviral drugs.
现在我们防护物资虽然不太缺，但缺人手。
We are short of staff though we are not short of protective materials now.
隔离服本来要4小时一换，因为人手不够，还是六七小时才换一次，喝水、上厕所都要忍着。
Isolation clothes should be changed every four hours, because of lack of staff, or six or seven hours before the change, water, toilet will have to endure.
医护人员压力太大，我们把音响搬到了食堂，让他们吃饭的时候听听音乐。
The paramedics were so stressed that we moved the stereo to the canteen to listen to music while they ate.
3“不发热的疑似病例在增多”胡振波 青山区新沟桥街社区卫生服务中心主任社区医院这一层，整体上还是缺防护物资的。
"Fever-free suspected cases are on the increase" Hu Zhenbo Qingshan District Xingou Bridge Street Community Health Service Center Director of the community hospital, the overall lack of protective materials.
我们还稍微好一点，春节前采购了一批物资，但还是有缺口，主要是缺防护服。
We also slightly better, the Spring Festival before the purchase of a batch of goods, but there are gaps, mainly lack of protective clothing.
后来我们通过捐赠渠道筹集了一些防护服，但都是没有达到国标的。
Later, we raised some protective clothing through donation channels, but they did not meet the national standard.
这两天来我们中心分诊的病人发生了一些变化，发热病人中的疑似病例在下降，但是不发热的疑似病例在增多。
Over the past two days there has been some change in the number of patients admitted to our centre, and the number of suspected cases among febrile patients is decreasing, but the number of suspected cases of fever is increasing.
发热的病人是社区派车送过来，不发热病人是自行过来的。
The febrile patient is the community sends the car to deliver, does not have the fever patient to come by oneself.
结果我们给一些不发热病人检测以后，发现除了发热不吻合，其他三项都吻合——白细胞不高，淋巴细胞降低，肺部有毛玻璃一样的改变。
Results We tested a few non-febrile patients and found that all three were consistent except for the fever, which was not high, the lymphocytes were reduced, and the lungs changed like glass.
我们要再观察一下，看这是我们院的个别性问题，还是各个社区医院面临的普遍性问题。
Let's take another look at whether this is an isolated problem in our hospital or a common one in the community hospitals.
武汉不同社区医院的差距很大。
Wuhan different community hospitals gap is very large.
我们辖区五万人口，医院的硬件不算好，只有两千多平米的业务用房，但门诊能力还比较强，门诊量在全市算比较大的，比如今天（1月31日）门诊来了一百三四十个。
Our area of 50,000 people, the hospital hardware is not good, only more than 2,000 square meters of business accommodation, but the outpatient capacity is relatively strong, the outpatients in the city, such as today (January 31) out-patient clinics came 130.
往上报疑似的，有时候一天报七八个，有时候两三个。
To report suspected, sometimes seven or eight a day, sometimes two or three.
其实24号发文以后，来我们中心门诊的反而比前段时间少一些了。
In fact, the 24 after the letter, our center outpatient clinic is a little less than some time ago.
主要原因是通过各种宣传，大家知道非特殊情况、紧急情况尽量不要上医院来。
The main reason is that through various publicity, we know that non-special circumstances, emergencies do not try to go to the hospital.
但我们做入户的工作量增大了，每天都要对（确诊病例的）密切接触者做入户随访，有症状的观测症状，没症状的主要是测下体温。
But our household workload has grown, with close contacts being followed up on a daily basis, symptomatic symptoms observed, and, without symptoms, temperature taken.
密切接触者的数据是由疾控中心下发到街道，街道再提供给我们。
Close contacts are distributed by the CDC to the streets, which are then made available to us.
辖区内居家隔离治疗的轻症患者，也需要我们每天入户追踪。
Home isolation treatment in the area of light patients, we also need to enter daily home tracking.
除了常规检测症状和体温，还要指导他们在家里怎么防护，怎么自我监测。
In addition to the routine detection of symptoms and body temperature, but also to guide them at home how to protect themselves, how to self-monitoring.
很多轻症患者是很恐慌的，所以我们还要给他们做心理上的（疏导），一方面是把他们的病情讲解清楚，另外告诉他们有社区医院和各级医院给他们提供医疗保障，让他们放心，不要悲观。
Many light patients are frightened, so we have to give them psychological (counseling), on the one hand, to explain their illness, on the other hand, to tell them that there are community hospitals and hospitals to provide them with medical care, to reassure them, not to be pessimistic.
入户工作本来以我们的公共卫生团队为主，现在忙不过来，又抽调了行政人员和其他科室的医务人员。
Our public health team, which used to be the main household work, is overworked by the redeployment of administrative staff and medical staff from other sections.
我们的医生护士对于被感染的心理压力还是比较大。
Our doctors and nurses are still under a lot of psychological pressure to get infected.
克服这种压力主要靠培训，让大家对疾病要有正确认识。
Overcoming this kind of pressure mainly depends on training so that people have a correct understanding of the disease.
然后班子成员、党员要做示范，冲在前面，不恐慌，不害怕……其实说完全不怕是不可能的。
Then the squad members, party members to do a demonstration, rushed in front, do not panic, do not be afraid... In fact, it is impossible to say no fear.
很多社区医院都是第一次面对这么大的压力和挑战。
For the first time, many community hospitals are facing such pressure and challenges.
本来社区医院的基础就比较差，医学毕业生根本不愿意到社区医院来工作，我们招人都是“八仙过海各显神通”。
The basis of the community hospital is relatively poor, medical graduates simply do not want to work in the community hospital, we are recruited "all over the world."
这次疫情给我的启发是，平时还是要加强社区医院的建设，关键时刻才能不乱阵脚。
The outbreak of my inspiration is usually to strengthen the construction of the community hospital, the critical moment can not chaos.
4“希望疫情结束后学生再返校”金科 武汉理工大学社区卫生服务中心主任我们是高校里的社区卫生服务中心，80%的服务对象是学生。
We are community health service centers in colleges and universities. Eighty percent of our clients are students.
学生放假走了，来我们这看病的人就少很多。
The students are away on holiday, and the number of people who come to see us is much less.
我们两个校区加在一起，每天来看发热的也就5到8人。
Our two campuses add up to five to eight people a day looking at the heat.
学生放寒假离开学校，对于我们来说确实是极大的缓解。
It is really a great relief for us that students leave school during the winter vacation.
如果学生还在学校，他们住集体宿舍，集中上课，食堂、厕所都是公用的，人群密度高，流动性又大，疫情一旦传播就难以控制。
If students are still in school, they live in dormitories, concentrate classes, canteens, toilets are all common, there is a high density of people, there is great mobility, the spread of the epidemic is difficult to control.
学校已经通知学生，不准私自返校，如果回来了不安排住宿。
The school has instructed students not to return to school without permission and not to arrange accommodation if they return.
当然，如果真有学生回来了也不可能不管，这么通知就是要传达一个信息：别回来。
Of course, if there is a student back, it is impossible to ignore, this notice is to send a message: do not come back.
而且武汉都封城了，他们也回不来。
And Wuhan city closed, they can not go back.
我们的物资还是比较充足的，主要来自校友捐赠。
We still have more material, mainly from alumni donations.
我那天在校友会看了一下，校友捐赠物资折合将近两百万元，口罩、防护服、酒精、消毒液、温度计都有。
I had a look at the alumni association the other day. Alumni donated almost two million dollars worth of masks, protective clothing, alcohol, disinfectant, thermometers.
应该说，我们的“武器装备”还是很好的。
It should be said that our "armament" is still very good.
如果有多的（物资），我们也会支援别的医院，但说实话，这场仗要打多长时间我们不知道，所以还是要储备着。
If there are more, we will support other hospitals, but to tell the truth, we don't know how long the war will take, so we have to keep it in reserve.
什么时候开学，这要听指挥部统一安排。
When to start school, this is a unified command arrangement.
从医生的角度，我当然是希望疫情彻底结束了学生再返校。
From the doctor's point of view, I certainly hope that the outbreak is over and that the students return to school.
（感谢湖北省基层卫生协会原秘书长郭晓玲对本文的帮助）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Thanks to Guo Xiaoling, former secretary-general of the Hubei Provincial Primary Health Association for her help in this article) Southern Weekend is now soliciting news leads from all readers who are on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“有强烈无力感，在为定点医院床位不够买单” ——武汉社区医院主任自述。
"There is a strong sense of powerlessness, in the point of not enough hospital beds to pay for" - Wuhan Community Hospital Director self-described.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“有强烈无力感，在为定点医院床位不够买单” ——武汉社区医院主任自述";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; director of Wuhan Community Hospital.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
