全国1716名医护人员确诊感染中有6人死亡，他们都是谁？。
Six of the country's 1,716 health-care workers have been diagnosed dead. Who are they?
刘世龙。
Liu Shilong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：刘世龙“ 据界面新闻检索公开报道，疫情发生以来，已有多位医护人员倒在了疫情防控救援工作一线。
Photo: Toothworm reporter: Liu Shilong "According to the interface news retrieval public report, since the outbreak, many medical personnel have fallen in the frontline of epidemic prevention and rescue work.
”2020年2月14日，国新办就疫情防控最新进展特别是关爱医务人员举措举行新闻发布会。
On February 14, 2020, the China National Bureau held a press conference on the latest developments in the prevention and control of the epidemic, in particular the Tunza Medical Service Initiative.
国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新在会上披露，截至2月11日24时，全国共报告医务人员确诊病例1716例，占到全国确诊病例的3.8%，其中有6人不幸死亡，占全国死亡病例的0.4%。
As of 2400 hours on February 11, 1,716 cases had been confirmed by medical personnel nationwide, accounting for 3.8 percent of confirmed cases, including six deaths, accounting for 0.4 percent of all deaths nationwide, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Commission, told the meeting.
上述6名不幸去世的医护人员官方尚未披露具体信息，据已有的公开报道，此次疫情中，因感染去世的医生有，武汉中心医院眼科医生李文亮、武汉同济医院器官移植副主任林正斌、湖北省中西医结合医院耳鼻喉科医生梁武东。
Officials have yet to release specific information about the six unfortunately.Among the doctors known to have died of the infection were Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, Lin Zhengbin, deputy director of organ transplantation at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, and Liang Wudong, an otorhinolaryngologist in Hubei Province.
据环球网报道，2020年1月25日早上7时许，湖北省中西医结合医院耳鼻喉科医生梁武东因感染新冠肺炎不幸离世。
Liang Wudong, an otorhinolaryngologist at Hubei Province, died of pneumonia on January 25, 2020 at about 7 a.m., according to the Web.
该院耳鼻喉科门诊一名工作人员证实了此消息，2020年1月16日，梁武东疑似感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，18日，其转到金银潭医院就诊，于1月25日早上7时许不幸去世，享年62岁。
On January 16, 2020, Liang Wudong was suspected of contracting the new coronavirus pneumonia. On January 18, he was transferred to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and passed away at about 7 am on January 25, aged 62.
2020年2月7日，武汉中心医院官微发布消息称该院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世。
On February 7, 2020, officials of Wuhan Central Hospital announced that the hospital's ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, in the fight against the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia, unfortunately infected, after all efforts failed to rescue, died on February 7, 2020 at 2.58 a.m.
李文亮接触过早期的新冠病毒引起的肺炎患者，并在自己的同学群发出预警，但却被定义为“不实信息”而受到训诫。
Li Wenliang was reprimanded for his exposure to pneumonia caused by the early New Crown virus and for giving early warning to his classmates, but was defined as "false information."
他的事经报道后，引发广泛关注，他被媒体称为此次疫情的“吹哨人”。
His story was widely publicized, and he was described by the media as the "whistle-blower" of the outbreak.
界面新闻此前报道，2月10日，网上有消息称武汉同济医院器官移植副主任林正斌医生于因感染新冠肺炎，经抢救无效不幸离世。
Dr. Lin Zhengbin, deputy director of organ transplant at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, died of pneumonia on Feb. 10 after being rescued from pneumonia.
武汉同济医院宣传部一名工作人员向界面新闻证实了该消息。
Wuhan Tongji Hospital propaganda department staff to the interface news confirmed the news.
公开资料示林正斌是武汉同济医院器官移植副主任医师，1983年毕业于同济医学院，从事器官移植专业30余年。
Shilin Zhengbin, deputy director of organ transplantation at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, graduated from Tongji Medical College in 1983 and specialized in organ transplantation for more than 30 years.
特别是在肾移植术及术后治疗，慢性移植肾肾病的治疗，肾移植术后的各种并发症的处理具有丰富的临床经验。
Especially in kidney transplantation and postoperative treatment, chronic renal transplant nephropathy, the management of complications after kidney transplantation has rich clinical experience.
另外，据界面新闻检索公开报道，疫情发生以来，已有多位医护人员因过度劳累倒在了疫情防控救援工作一线。
In addition, according to the interface news retrieval public report, since the outbreak, many health care workers have been overworked in the prevention and treatment of the epidemic in the front line.
据红星新闻报道，2020年1月23日下午江苏泰州市人民医院感染科姜继军医生在奔赴发热门诊时，因呼吸心跳骤停不幸离世。
On the afternoon of January 23, 2020, Dr. Ke Jiang Ji Jun, a doctor at the Taizhou People's Hospital in Jiangsu province, died of a cardiac arrest while on his way to the fever clinic, according to Red Star News.
据姜继军的同事证实，姜继军1968年出生，于上世纪90年代初来到泰州市人民医院执业，在医院工作的30年里，兢兢业业，为人和蔼且业务水平很高。
Jiang Jijun, born in 1968, came to the Taizhou People's Hospital in the early 1990s to practise, according to Jiang Jijun's colleagues, and has served in the hospital for 30 years with dedication, kindness and professionalism.
受新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的影响，科室接诊人数增长为平时的2-3倍，又因为科室人员不多的原因，姜继军比以往更超负荷地工作，最终在1月23日查房后，奔赴发热门诊时，因呼吸心跳骤停不幸去世，享年51岁。
Due to the small number of staff in the department, Jiang Jijun worked harder than before, and finally died of a sudden cardiac arrest at the fever clinic on January 23.
界面新闻此前报道，福建省南平市浦城县仙阳镇中心卫生院副院长毛样洪医生于2020年1月25日晚9时许，在驻守高速检查站检测过往车辆乘员体温时被一辆轿车撞伤，后经抢救无效死亡。
As previously reported by the Interface News, Dr. Mao Xianghong, Vice-President of the Central Health Center, Xianyang Township, Pucheng County, Nanping City, Fujian Province, was injured by a car at a high-speed checkpoint at about 9 p.m. on January 25, 2020.
电仙阳镇镇政府和仙阳镇中心卫生院两处的工作人员证实了此事，他们回应称，是车主将油门当成了刹车，导致毛样洪被撞身亡。
Officials at the township government and the central clinic in Xianyang confirmed the incident, responding that the owner had used the accelerator as a brake, causing the hair-like tornado to die.
据悉，毛样洪医生是所属医院里职称最高的医生，同时也是浦城县仙阳镇中心卫生院唯一的副主任医师。
It is reported that Dr. Mao Xiang Hong is the highest professional title doctor in the hospital, but also the only deputy director of the central hospital in Pu Cheng County.
出事当晚，毛样洪接到上级指示，驻守在高速检查站检测过往车辆乘员体温。
On the night of the accident, Mao Hong received instructions from his superiors to station at a high-speed checkpoint to check the temperature of passengers.
一辆轿车误将油门当刹车撞伤毛样洪，后经抢救无效不幸离世。
A car mistakenly hit the throttle when the brakes hit the wool-like Hong, after the failure of rescue unfortunately died.
据江西晨报报道，2020年1月28日，赣州市大余县疾控中心艾滋病防治科副科长蒋金波医生因劳累过度突发心肌梗死，经抢救无效不幸离世。
Jiangxi Morning News reported that on January 28, 2020, Ganzhou City, the CDC CDC AIDS control section deputy head of Dr. Jiang Jinbo because of overwork sudden myocardial infarction, after rescue unfortunately died.
据悉，1月15日，面对肺炎疫情，赣州市大余县疾控中心发出《众志成城，防控疫情——致中心全体职工的倡议书》，蒋金波主动请缨成为流行病学调查组的一员，负责到隔离病房进行流行病学调查，为查明疫情发生的原因和传播途径提供资料数据。
In response to the outbreak of pneumonia on January 15, the CDC in Dawu County, Ganzhou City, issued a message to all the staff of the center. Jiang Jinbo volunteered to be a member of the Epidemiological Investigation Team.
1月28日晚约19时50分，蒋金波在和同事下乡指导消杀工作回到家中后，突感胸痛不适。
On the evening of January 28 at about 1950, Jiang Jinbo and his colleagues went to the countryside to guide the elimination of work back home, a sudden chest pain.
在被送往大余县人民医院后，诊断考虑为心肌梗死，遂转送至赣州市人民医院。
After being sent to Dayu County People's Hospital, the diagnosis was considered as myocardial infarction and was transferred to Ganzhou People's Hospital.
终经抢救无效，于当日23时50分不幸去世，享年58岁。
He died at 2350 hours on the same day. He was 58 years old.
据中新网报道，2020年2月3日，湖南省衡山县东湖镇马迹卫生院药剂组副组长宋英杰医生于因过度劳累引发心源性猝死，不幸离世。
On February 3, 2020, Dr. Song Yingjie, deputy head of the pharmacy team at Donghu Town, Hengshan County, Hunan Province, died of sudden cardiac death from overwork, Xinhua reported.
经湖南衡阳衡山县委宣传部证实，宋英杰在2016年4月进入马迹卫生院工作。
Hunan Hengyang Hengshan County Commission Propaganda Department confirmed that Song Yingjie in April 2016 into the horse track health clinic work.
自2020年1月25日(农历大年初一)起，宋英杰加入抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情岳临高速东湖高速路口收费站体温检测排查团队，每天坚持值班，并且独自负责马迹卫生院仓库医疗物资分发，连续十天九夜奋斗在防控一线。
Since January 25, 2020 (the first day of the Lunar New Year), Song Yingjie joined the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia Yue Ying-wing high-speed East Lake toll booth temperature screening team, daily on duty, and solely responsible for the distribution of medical supplies at the Ma Tau Hospital warehouse, 10 consecutive days and nights struggle in the prevention and control front.
2月3日零点值班结束交接完班后回到宿舍，因过度劳累引发心源性猝死，因公殉职，享年28岁。
February 3 duty at the end of the handover after returning to the dormitory, due to excessive fatigue caused by sudden cardiac death, died in the line of duty, 28 years old.
据南方都市报报道，2月7日凌晨，南京市中医院新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防治工作小组组长、副院长徐辉医生因突发疾病抢救无效不幸离世。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 7, Vice-Dean Dr. Xu Hui, head of the working group on the prevention and treatment of coronavirus-infected pneumonia in Nanjing Chinese Hospital, died of a sudden illness.
据南京市中医院新闻办工作人员证实，徐辉作为新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防治工作小组组长连日来一直奋战在抗疫一线。
According to the Nanjing Chinese Hospital Information Office staff confirmed that Xu Hui as a new coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and treatment team leader has been fighting against the epidemic for days.
2月6日晚，徐辉开会后回到家中感到身体不适，因突发疾病入院后抢救无效，于7日0时3分离世，享年51岁。
Xu returned home on the evening of February 6 feeling unwell. He was admitted to hospital with a medical emergency and was discharged at 0003 hours on February 7.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全国1716名医护人员确诊感染中有6人死亡，他们都是谁？。
Six of the country's 1,716 health-care workers have been diagnosed dead. Who are they?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全国1716名医护人员确诊感染中有6人死亡，他们都是谁？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; six of the 1,716 health-care workers diagnosed with the infection nationwide died, all of them?;
var msg_desc = "据界面新闻检索公开报道，疫情发生以来，已有多位医护人员倒在了疫情防控救援工作一线。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Interface News Retrieval Service reports that many health workers have fallen at the forefront of prevention and treatment efforts since the outbreak.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
