血浆治疗是否有风险？金银潭医院院长：风险远小获益。
Is there a risk in plasma treatment? Gold and Silver Pool Hospital Director: The risk is much smaller.
央视新闻。
CCTV News.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫来源：央视新闻“ 血浆治疗是否有风险？张定宇表示，任何治疗方法都有一定的风险，血浆输入存在不确定因素，但在重症病人救治方面是必要的选择，风险远远小于获益。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Is there a risk in plasma therapy?" Zhang Dingyu said any treatment has certain risks, plasma input is uncertain, but is a necessary choice in the treatment of severe patients, and the risks are far less than the benefits.
”2020年2月14日，武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇接受央视《新闻1+1》白岩松采访时表示，血浆捐献者的献血量应该是200毫升到400毫升，这要根据捐献者的恢复状态和他的身体状况来决定。
In an interview with CCTV's "News 1 + 1," Zhang Dingyu, director of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, told CCTV's "News 1 + 1" Baiyansong on February 14, 2020.
目前捐献者的年龄要求是18岁到55岁之间，如果捐献者的身体条件许可，同样也可以放宽到60岁。
The age requirement for donors is currently between 18 and 55 years of age, which can also be extended to 60 if the donor's physical condition so permits.
张定宇称，在我们医院已经有4名患者接受过恢复期康复病人血浆治疗，血氧得到稳定，这是积极的变化。
Zhang said that in our hospital there have been four convalescent patients have received plasma treatment, blood oxygen stability, this is a positive change.
希望恢复性血浆能够帮助重症的患者，能够帮助到人民，还是需要大家持续的坚持捐献血浆，无论从医学研究还是临床救治，都是一个利国利民的好事。
It is hoped that the recovery of plasma can help the seriously ill, can help the people, or we need to continue to adhere to donate plasma, whether from medical research or clinical treatment, is a good thing.
血浆治疗是否有风险？张定宇表示，任何治疗方法都有一定的风险，血浆输入存在不确定因素，但在重症病人救治方面是必要的选择，风险远远小于获益。
Is there a risk in plasma treatment? Zhang said there are risks in any treatment, and plasma input is uncertain, but is a necessary choice in the treatment of severe patients and the risks are far less than the benefits.
目前血浆输入主要用于重症患者的治疗。
At present plasma input is mainly used for the treatment of severe patients.
针对如何理解新冠肺炎是自限性疾病的问题，张定宇表示，绝大部分病人可以达到自我康复，但不是说不需要治疗，要防止并发症导致疾病恶化，所以自限性疾病也需要医生的帮助。
To understand that pneumonia is self-limiting, Zhang says the vast majority of patients can achieve self-recovery, but not without treatment. Self-limiting diseases also need help from doctors to prevent complications from worsening.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
血浆治疗是否有风险？金银潭医院院长：风险远小获益。
Is there a risk in plasma treatment? Gold and Silver Pool Hospital Director: The risk is much smaller.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "血浆治疗是否有风险？金银潭医院院长：风险远小获益";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Is plasma treatment risky? The director of Gold & amp; Silver Pool Hospital: Rarely benefited from & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "血浆治疗是否有风险？张定宇表示，任何治疗方法都有一定的风险，血浆输入存在不确定因素，但在重症病人救治方面是必要的选择，风险远远小于获益。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Is plasma treatment risky? Any treatment involves some risk, says Zhang Dingyu. Plasma input is uncertain, but is a necessary choice in the treatment of critically ill patients, and the risks far outweigh the benefits.
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
