管轶等人在穿山甲身上找到冠状病毒，为新冠病毒亚型分支。
Guan Yi and others found coronavirus on the body of pangolin, which is a sub-type branch of the new crown virus.
谢欣。
Xie Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：谢欣  编辑：许悦“ 在几批穿山甲样本中均检测到与新冠病毒相关的冠状病毒，两者相似度要大于此前蝙蝠身上发现的冠状病毒。
Photo: Toothworm Editor: Xie Yue: "Several batches of pangolin samples detected coronavirus associated with the new crown virus, both more similar than the coronavirus previously found in bats.
”新型冠状病毒COVID-19从哪里起源，又是如何从自然界传播给人类，自从新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，这一问题一直被大众追问。
The question of where the new coronavirus, COVID-19, originated and spread from nature to humans has been pursued ever since the outbreak of the new coronavirus.
病毒溯源对揭示新冠病毒来源及其进化规律、消除疫情源头和防止疫情扩散非常重要。
Virus traceability is very important to reveal the source of new crown virus and its evolution, eliminate the source of epidemic disease and prevent the spread of epidemic disease.
根据此前官方消息，目前的检测结果可以初步排除新型冠状病毒来源于家禽家畜。
According to the previous official information, the current test results can initially exclude the new coronavirus from poultry and livestock.
中国科学院武汉病毒研究所对新冠病毒基因组序列的比对显示，蝙蝠最有可能是新冠病毒的天然宿主。
A comparison of the genome sequence of the new crown virus by the Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences shows that bats are the most likely natural hosts of the new crown virus.
但是，从根据对蝙蝠身上发现的冠状病毒与COVID-19新型冠状病毒的对比发现，两者基因组存在差异，这也意味着COVID-19新型冠状病毒的进化从蝙蝠到人，中间还至少差了一环，即所谓的中间宿主。
However, a comparison of the coronavirus found in bats with the new coronavirus COVID-19 reveals that there is a difference in the genomes of the coronavirus, meaning that the evolution of the new coronavirus COVID-19 from bat to human is at least one step away from the so-called intermediate host.
华南农业大学2月7日宣布，发现穿山甲是新型冠状病毒疫情的潜在中间宿主，但华南农业大学方面进一步表示，相关研究还尚未完成，研究结果尚未正式发表。
Pangolin was found to be a potential intermediate host for the new coronavirus, but SAU said on Tuesday that the study had not been completed and the results had not yet been published.
也有专家推测，蛇可能会是潜在的中间宿主。
Other experts speculate that snakes could be potential intermediate hosts.
允许生命科学的研究人员发布预印本的交互式数据库BioRxiv，最近发表了题为《Identification of 2019-nCoV related coronaviruses in Malayan pangolins in southern China》（南中国马来亚穿山甲中对2019新型冠状病毒相关冠状病毒的鉴定）的最新研究论文，该论文通讯作者为香港大学新发传染性疾病国家重点实验室主任以及流感研究中心主任管轶教授，以及广西医科大学胡艳玲教授。
Allowing researchers in the life sciences to publish a pre-printed interactive database, BioRxiv, recently published a recent research paper entitled Identification of 2019-nCoV-related coronavirus in Malaysia pangolins in southern China, by Professor Guan Yi, Director of the Center for Emerging Infectious Diseases and Professor Guan Ling of Guangxi Medical University.
论文研究结果显示，在穿山甲中发现了与COVID-19新冠病毒相关的冠状病毒，这有望进一步揭示新冠病毒的起源与进化之路。
The results show that coronavirus associated with COVID-19 has been found in pangolin, which may shed further light on the origin and evolution of the new crown virus.
这是继华南农业大学之后，再次有研究学者提出穿山甲的新冠病毒“中间宿主”角色。
This is after the South China Agricultural University, a researcher once again put forward the new crown virus "intermediate host" role of pangolin.
本次研究的对象为2017年8月至2018年1月期间广西海关在反走私行动中查获的18个冷冻穿山甲的（肺，肠，血液）等43个组织样品，以及2018年5月至7月之间收集的一批12只穿山甲的19个穿山甲样品。
The study is aimed at 43 tissue samples of frozen pangolins (lungs, intestines, blood) seized by Guangxi Customs during anti-smuggling operations between August 2017 and January 2018, as well as 19 samples of a batch of 12 pangolins collected between May and July 2018.
研究人员通过对这两批穿山甲样本分别进行了高通量基因测序与qPCR检测，发现第一批样本中的六个（两个肺，两个肠，一个肺肠混合物，一个血液）样本中存在冠状病毒。
The researchers used high-throughput gene sequencing and qPCR to determine the presence of coronavirus in six of the first samples (two lungs, two intestines, one pulmonary mixture and one blood).
第二批中的三个肺组织样本呈冠状病毒阳性。
Three lung tissue samples from the second group were positive for coronavirus.
研究团队还联系了广州海关技术中心，该中心重新检测在此前反走私行动中查获的5份存档的穿山甲样品，随后也在这些样本中发现了冠状病毒。
The team also contacted the Guangzhou Customs Technology Center, which re-examined five archived samples of pangolins seized in previous anti-smuggling operations, and subsequently found coronavirus in those samples.
冠状病毒图谱，红点为穿山甲冠状病毒对比发现，在这些穿山甲中发现的冠状病毒的基因组，与新型冠状病毒基因组相似率在85.5％—92.4％，并在系统进化树中代表了新型冠状病毒的两个亚型。
Coronavirus map, red dots for the contrast of the coronavirus found in these pangolin, the genomes of the coronavirus found in these pangolins have a genome similar to that of the new coronavirus, representing two subtypes of the new coronavirus in the evolutionary tree.
其中GD/P1L和GD/P2S两个分支被认为与新冠病毒密切相关。
GD / P1L and GD / P2S are thought to be closely related to the new crown virus.
值得注意的是，新冠病毒与穿山甲冠状病毒的受体结合域的氨基酸序列相似性高达97.4%。
It should be noted that the amino acid sequences of the coronavirus and the receptor binding domain of the coronavirus were 97.4% similar.
其中与细胞结合受体组合最关键的5个氨基酸序列组合上，两者结果一致。
The results are consistent with the five amino acid sequences which are the most critical combination of binding receptors.
而这5个核心氨基酸序列此前尚未在除新冠病毒以外的其他病毒中发现。
The five core amino acid sequences have not previously been found in viruses other than the new crown virus.
但相比之下，蝙蝠冠状病毒与新冠病毒的受体结合域的氨基酸相似度要更低，仅为89.2％。
But by contrast, the similarity of amino acids between the coronavirus and the receptor-binding domain of the new crown virus was lower, at 89.2%.
系统发育分析表明，穿山甲冠状病毒并非新冠病毒的最接近亲缘关系。
The phylogenetic analysis showed that the coronavirus was not the closest relative of the coronavirus.
因此，研究团队推测，广东穿山甲冠状病毒与新冠病毒之间的氨基酸相似性可能是由于趋同进化而不是重组引起的。
Therefore, the team speculates that the similarity of amino acids between the coronavirus and the new coronavirus may be due to convergent evolution rather than recombination.
简而言之，与蝙蝠冠状病毒相比，穿山甲冠状病毒与新冠病毒相似度更高，并且在关键的受体结合部分，5个关键的氨基酸序列组合一致。
In short, the coronavirus was more similar to the coronavirus, and the five key amino acid sequences were aligned in the key receptor-binding part.
穿山甲也是除蝙蝠以外唯一被新冠病毒相关冠状病毒感染的哺乳动物。
Pangolin is also the only mammal to have been infected with coronavirus associated with the new crown virus, except for bats.
但在穿山甲冠状病毒与新冠病毒之间是否还有中间进化的冠状病毒，目前尚不得而知。
But it is not known whether there is still a coronavirus in the middle evolution between the coronavirus and the new coronavirus.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
管轶等人在穿山甲身上找到冠状病毒，为新冠病毒亚型分支。
Guan Yi and others found coronavirus on the body of pangolin, which is a sub-type branch of the new crown virus.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "管轶等人在穿山甲身上找到冠状病毒，为新冠病毒亚型分支";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Guan Yi et al found a coronavirus in pangolin at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "在几批穿山甲样本中均检测到与新冠病毒相关的冠状病毒，两者相似度要大于此前蝙蝠身上发现的冠状病毒。
var msg _ desc = & quot; coronavirus associated with the new crown virus was detected in several batches of pangolin samples, both more similar than the coronavirus found in bats.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
