云医院为主、门诊为辅，上海“医联体”对疫情严防死守。
Cloud hospital as the main, outpatient clinic as a supplement, Shanghai "medical conjoined" to the epidemic situation strictly guarded.
杨蓉。
Yang Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
摄影：杨蓉作者：杨蓉“ 疫情期间门诊量下降，云医院处方量明显增多。
Photography: Yang Rong writer Yang Rong "During the epidemic period outpatient quantity declined, cloud hospital prescription quantity obviously increases.
”“今天上午我已经看了12个病人，其中10个病人都是咨询新冠相关内容，2个是老病人。
"" I've seen 12 patients this morning, 10 of whom are consulting New Crown-related content and two are old patients.
”2月18日上午11时19分，复旦大学附属中山医院徐汇医院老年科副主任医师徐蓉在视频通话中告诉记者，此时她已经网上坐诊约一小时。
Xu Rong, deputy director of geriatrics at Xuhui Hospital, an affiliate of Fudan University, told reporters during a video call that she had been sitting online for about an hour.
这则视频通话也是通过徐汇云医院APP在线诊疗功能发起的，从点进首页的“我要看病”到选择在岗的医生，再到进入线上诊室开始问诊，总共用时不超过30秒。
The video call was also initiated through the Xu Huiyun Hospital APP online consultation function, which takes no more than 30 seconds from "I want to see a doctor" on the homepage, to select a doctor on duty, and then go to the online consultation room.
除了视频通话以外，徐汇云医院APP也具备发送文字、照片、语音的功能。
In addition to video calls, Xu Huiyun Hospital APP also has the function of sending text, photos and voice.
徐汇云医院APP截屏，可选择医生预约线上或线下门诊，或直接进入诊疗。
APP screen capture at Xu Huiyun Hospital allows doctors to make appointments for on-line or off-line consultations or to enter the clinic directly.
徐汇医院周俭院长透露，从2015年推出徐汇云医院这一智慧诊疗平台以来，医生们已经在网上会诊180多万人次，而且大部分都是视频会诊。
Since the launch of Xu Huiyun Hospital in 2015, doctors have consulted more than 1.8 million people online, most of them via video consultation, according to dean Zhou of Xuhui Hospital.
“视频会诊就是面对面，实际上就像（到医院）看病一样的，病人的获得感和体验感是非常强的。
"Videoconferencing is face-to-face. It's really like seeing a doctor, and the patient's sense of access and experience is very strong.
”1月31日起，徐汇云医院在APP端和微信小程序另外专门开通了“新冠工作室”，截至2月18日，平均每日有210位专家24小时提供服务，发热、新冠病情相关咨询占咨询总量约30%。
Since Jan. 31, Xuhui Cloud Hospital has opened a separate new Crown Studio in its APP and micro-messaging programs, with an average of 210 specialists available 24 hours a day as of February 18, with calorific and crowning-related consultations accounting for about 30 per cent of the total.
18天以来，工作室累计接待用户已达83804人次。
Over the past 18 days, the studio has received a total of 83,804 users.
徐汇医院执行院长朱福表示，徐汇云医院的咨询服务都是不收门诊费的。
Xu Hui Hospital executive director Zhu Fu said that Xu Huiyun hospital advisory services are free of outpatient fees.
开展在线诊疗的医生需获执业医师资质3年以上，未满3年的执业医师仅可实施咨询及随访。
Doctors who perform online consultations need to be certified as medical practitioners for at least 3 years. Practitioners under 3 years of age may only consult and follow up.
除了医院规定的固定排班时间和患者预约时间以外，医师和药师也可以用医生端APP在碎片化时间办公。
Physicians and pharmacists can also use the doctor-side APP to work during fragmentation hours, in addition to the fixed schedule and patient appointment times set by the hospital.
护士在徐汇医院一楼为互联网诊疗辟出的办公室内值班。
The nurse is on duty on the ground floor of Xuhui Hospital for Internet treatment.
摄影：杨蓉作为上海市第一家互联网医院，徐汇云医院还和上海600多家药房签约。
Photo: As Shanghai's first Internet hospital, Xu Huiyun Hospital also signed a contract with more than 600 pharmacies in Shanghai.
如果患者享有上海医保，可以直接使用医保卡到自己选择的药房消费拿药。
If the patient is covered by Shanghai Medicare, you can use the card directly to collect the medicine at the pharmacy of your choice.
周俭透露，总体上，疫情期间门诊量下降，云医院处方量明显增多，“徐汇云医院发热咨询最多达到1000多次，每天有200-300人次咨询，平均每小时就有十个病人左右。
Overall, the number of outpatient consultations during the epidemic period, cloud hospital prescription significantly increased, "Xu Huiyun Hospital fever counselling up to more than 1,000 times, a day there are 200-300 consultations, an average of about 10 patients per hour.
”除提供线上看诊服务外，有需要进行线下门诊问医的市民也可通过徐汇云医院进行网络挂号，再前往医院就诊。
Apart from providing on-line consultation services, members of the public who need to seek medical advice at the on-line outpatient clinic can also register via the Xu Huiyun Hospital and go to the hospital.
1月31日，徐汇区卫生系统恢复上班，各医疗机构门诊全部按节前安排开诊。
On 31 January, the Xuhui District Health System returned to work, with all medical facilities providing pre-service consultations.
二级医院除可能造成病原扩散风险的诊疗专科和操作项目（如口腔科、眼科、五官科、呼吸科内镜操作等）外，各诊疗项目陆续开诊。
In addition to clinical specialties and operational items (e.g. stomatology, ophthalmology, pentaphysics, respiratory endoscopy, etc.) which may pose a risk of the spread of the disease, various diagnostic and therapeutic programmes have been opened.
为控制人流，徐汇医院分开设进出口各一个，进口处的医护人员均佩戴口罩、护目镜，身穿防护服，所有进入人员需出示身份证及来访患者医保卡并测温，领取“道口通行证”后再按指示走不同通道进入。
To control the flow of people, Xu Hui Hospital has one entrance and one entrance each. Medical staff at the entrance are wearing masks, goggles and protective clothing. All staff entering the hospital are required to present their identity cards and medical care cards for visiting patients.
徐汇医院门口医护人员为进入人员测温。
Medical staff in front of Xuhui Hospital measure temperature for people entering.
摄影：杨蓉来访者进入一楼大厅后需接受流行病学调查，记录身份证号码、手机号、是否有重点地区停留史、是否为密切接触者、是否有咳嗽和发烧等症状等信息。
Photo: After entering the lobby of the ground floor, Yang Rong visitors have to undergo an epidemiological investigation to record the ID number, mobile phone number, whether there is a history of stay in a key area, whether they are in close contact, whether they have cough and fever, etc.
医护人员介绍，这样的电子版及纸质流调每天平均要做1200人次，双休日为400人次。
Medical staff said that such electronic and paper-based transfer to do an average of 1200 daily, a double-day of 400.
据界面新闻观察，2月18日早上10点左右的徐汇医院有部分中老年人陆续前来就诊，接受流调的队伍最多时排有3人，到中午12点时，则几乎没有病人。
According to the Interface News Observation, some middle-aged and old people came to Xuhui Hospital at around 10: 00 am on February 18. There were three people in the queue at most, but there were few patients by 12 noon.
中午12点徐汇医院一楼大厅病人寥寥无几。
There were few patients in the ground floor lobby of Xuhui Hospital at noon.
摄影：杨蓉在日常诊疗之外，作为上海市发热门诊定点医院之一的徐汇医院还有一个任务：其“医联体”内排摸出来的发热患者，都要送到这里进行留观隔离。
Photography: Yang Rong in addition to routine medical treatment, as one of the Shanghai fever clinic designated hospital Xuhui Hospital has a task: its "conjoined" out of the hot patients, are sent here for observation isolation.
徐汇区-中山医院医疗联合体2016年4月14日成立，成员包括一级医院复旦大学附属中山医院，二甲医院徐汇医院，以及徐家汇等5家社区卫生服务中心。
The Medical Complex of Xuhui District-Zhongshan Hospital was established on April 14, 2016. Its members include 5 community health service centers, including Zhongshan Hospital affiliated with Fudan University, Xuhui Hospital of Erga Hospital and Xujiahui Hospital.
徐汇医院目前共有发热留观病房7间，为应对返程高峰，还预留了一层病区作为发热留观病房，内有来自感染科、呼吸内科、重症医学科的16位医师、30位护士驻守，26位高级职称专家组成临床专家团，值班专家每日至少进行3次查房。
To cope with the peak of the return journey, Xuhui Hospital has reserved a layer of fever ward, which is manned by 16 physicians from Infection Department, Respiratory Medicine, Severe Medicine, 30 nurses and 26 experts with senior title. The experts on duty make up the clinical expert mission.
发热门诊内设收费窗口和CT检查室，物理隔断，减少交叉感染。
Fever clinic with toll window and CT examination room, physical isolation, reduce cross-infection.
为发热病人设置的独立检查CT。
Independent CT scan for febrile patients.
图片来源：徐汇医院目前，徐汇医院已累计留观15例疑似患者，排除12例，确诊2例，确诊的2例已送往上海专门收治成人确诊病人的公共卫生临床中心。
Source: Xuhui Hospital, Xuhui Hospital has accumulated 15 suspected patients, excluded 12 cases, confirmed 2 cases, confirmed 2 cases have been sent to Shanghai special public health clinic for confirmed adult patients.
徐汇医院留观后排除的12例疑似患者中，有4例由徐家汇社区卫生服务中心排摸后转送。
Four of the 12 suspected patients were transferred by Xujiahui Community Health Service Center.
该中心主任王剑波透露，每天中心防保科对来自市级区级公安、区文旅局、健康云APP等渠道的人员名单进行查重，再将其交给街道居委进行电话核实。
Wang Jianbo, director of the center, said that every day the center's Preventive Security Section checked the lists of people from municipal-level public security, district-level cultural and tourist bureaus and health-cloud APPs, and handed them over to neighborhood committees for telephone verification.
根据核实情况整理出当天居家观察名单，并下发到负责区域的家庭医生。
On the basis of the verification, the watch list for the day is compiled and distributed to the family doctor responsible for the area.
后者负责落实居家观察工作，并上交给防保科汇总，所有居家观察对象均“一人一档”留存。
The latter is responsible for the implementation of home observation, and handed over to the preventive insurance section aggregate, all home observation objects "one person, one file."
王剑波回忆，春节期间是最忙碌的时候。
Wang Jianbo recalled that the Spring Festival is the busiest time.
这段时间疫情刚刚暴发，排摸工作程序还没理顺，但时间又很紧，最忙的一次“上午发名单，中午之前就要报居家观察名单，下午六七点就要把居家观察落实。
This time the outbreak has just erupted, the work procedures have not been straightened out, but the time is very tight, the busiest of the "morning distribution list, before noon to report to the home watch list, 6 to 7 p.m. will be home observation implementation.
”截至2月17日，徐家汇社区卫生服务中心已居家排摸1032人，其中居家医学观察262人，已解除医学观察236人；密切接触者医学观察36人，已解除密接医学观察28人；宾馆排摸176人，转送集中观察17人。
As of February 17, the Xujiahui Community Health Service Center had handled 1,032 people at home, 262 of whom were under home medical observation and 236 of whom had been released from medical observation.
为居民进行流行病学调查。
Epidemiological survey of the population.
图片来源：徐家汇社区卫生服务中心自1月31日起，徐汇区13家社区卫生服务中心已全部开诊，71家社区卫生服务站中38家有条件的服务站开诊，在排摸之外，居家观察对象隔离期间的用药需求以及普通居民的一般诊疗、接种需求，也都落在了基层卫生部门的担子上。
Source: Xujiahui Community Health Service Center Since January 31, all 13 community health service centers in Xuhui District have been opened, and 38 out of 71 community health service stations have opened. The demand for drugs during isolation and the general medical treatment and inoculation needs of the general population have also fallen on the primary health care department.
为方便居家观察对象用药，徐家汇街道社区卫生服务中心建立临时进药快速申请程序，由负责医学观察的家庭医生提出申请，药房主任备案后进行临时采购并做好记录。
To facilitate home observation, Xujiahui Street Community Health Service Center set up a temporary fast-track application procedure for medicine intake, which is applied for by the family doctor in charge of medical observation, and then temporarily purchased and recorded by the pharmacy director.
同时，为减少人员聚集，社区卫生中心要求接种疫苗前必须预约，在所有预防接种门诊设置红外线额温仪和耳温仪两次测温的基础上，要求接种疫苗的陪同人员数量不能超过2人，并限制每小时接种不超过10剂次。
At the same time, in order to reduce the concentration of people, community health centres require an appointment prior to vaccination and, on the basis of two temperature measurements at all vaccination clinics, an infrared thermometer and an ear thermometer, the number of escorts required to be vaccinated must not exceed two and the number of doses per hour limited to 10.
此外，暂停面对面产后访视、儿童健康体检门诊。
In addition, face-to-face post-natal visits and child health check-ups were suspended.
对于其他慢性病管理、精神病管理，家庭医生将通过电话、微信进行防疫宣传及慢病管理。
For other chronic diseases management, psychiatric management, family doctors will be through the telephone, micro-letter vaccination campaigns and chronic disease management.
目前，徐家汇街道社区卫生服务中心平均每天门诊量846人次，与去年春节后同期相比，下降了47.36%。
At present, Xujiahui Street Community Health Service Center has an average of 846 outpatient visits per day, down 47.36 percent compared with the same period last year.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
云医院为主、门诊为辅，上海“医联体”对疫情严防死守。
Cloud hospital as the main, outpatient clinic as a supplement, Shanghai "medical conjoined" to the epidemic situation strictly guarded.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "云医院为主、门诊为辅，上海“医联体”对疫情严防死守";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Cloud hospital primarily, with outpatient service as a supplement, and Shanghai's "conjoined" firm against & quot; disease.
var msg_desc = "疫情期间门诊量下降，云医院处方量明显增多。
var msg _ desc = & quot; outpatient visits declined during the epidemic; and prescription volumes at cloud hospitals increased markedly.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
