买不到的口罩，卖断货的口罩机。
Can't buy masks, sell off the mask machine.
彭强。
Peng Qiang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：彭强  编辑：张慧“ 多数口罩机厂家的交货期限在6-8周左右，部分厂商则停止接单。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn Zhang Hui, editor of Vision China: Zhang Hui, Most mask makers have delivery deadlines of about 6-8 weeks. Some manufacturers have stopped receiving orders.
N95型口罩生产设备交货时间要150天。
N95 mask production equipment takes 150 days to deliver.
”“现货口罩机肯定没了，市面上的二手机也基本上没货。
"The spot mask machine must be gone and the two phones on the market are basically out of stock.
”张晓薇在电话中对界面新闻记者说。
"Zhang told the interface reporter on the phone.
张晓薇是温州市一家口罩机生产企业的销售人员，在有些企业还未复工的情况下，她所在公司的生产任务安排已十分密集，交货排期在80天以上。
Zhang Xiaowei is a sales staff of a mask machine manufacturer in Wenzhou, some enterprises have not yet been back to work, her company's production task arrangement has been very intensive, scheduled for more than 80 days.
这家设备制造厂商主要生产成套的软包装设备，口罩机也是其极为重要的产品类别。
This equipment manufacturer mainly produces the complete set of soft packaging equipment, mask machine is also its most important product category.
“全自动的口罩机现在报价30万元左右，预定80天后交货。
"The fully automated mask machine is now offering around $300,000 and is scheduled to be delivered 80 days later.
想要60天交货，价格要抬到40万左右，现在需求量太大。
To make delivery in 60 days, the price has to go up to about 400,000.
”张晓薇说。
"said Zhang.
在新冠肺炎疫情的影响下，口罩成为紧俏物资。
Influenced by the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, masks are in demand.
界面新闻此前计算，在第二产业、医疗、交通运输业等行业复工的情况下，每天将有2.38亿人需要戴口罩；若是全面复工，按照第四次全国经济普查数据，国内法人单位和个体经营户合计就业人口为5.33亿人，按每人每天一只口罩计算，每天至少需要5.33亿只口罩。
Interface News had previously calculated that 238 million people a day would need to wear masks when industries such as secondary industry, medical care, transportation, etc., were to resume full-scale work. According to the fourth national economic census, 533 million people were employed in domestic enterprises and self-employed households, requiring at least 533 million masks per person per day.
工信部的数据显示，目前国内口罩最大日产能为2000万只。
Figures from the Ministry of Industry and Communications show that China currently has a maximum capacity of 20 million masks a day.
此外，医用口罩生产后，还要经历7-10天的灭菌解析期才能上市，这也影响了新增口罩产量上市的速度。
In addition, after the production of medical masks, after 7-10 days of sterilization analysis period to go on the market, which also affected the production of new masks on the market.
口罩缺口很大，连生产它的口罩机也变得紧缺。
The gap in the mask is so wide that even the mask-maker is in short supply.
“N95型口罩生产线的设备更为热销，交货时间要150天。
"The equipment for the N95 mask production line is more marketable and takes 150 days to deliver.
”张晓薇说。
"said Zhang.
据她介绍，根据口罩生产速度和种类的不同，口罩机原有售价为20万-30万不等，目前稍有涨价。
According to her, mask production speed and type, the original price of the mask machine is 200,000 to 300,000, is now slightly higher.
界面新闻记者咨询多家口罩机生产商后发现，多数厂家交货期限在6-8周左右，部分厂商则已停止接单，包括东莞的多家厂商。
Interface reporters consulted a number of mask manufacturers found that most manufacturers in 6-8 weeks, some manufacturers have stopped receiving orders, including a number of manufacturers in Dongguan.
2月18日，界面新闻记者致电东莞当地多家口罩机生产企业，它们均表示，由于目前订单量较大，不再接收新的接单。
Feb. 18, the interface reporter called Dongguan a number of local mask machine manufacturers, they all said that because of the large volume of current orders, no longer accept new orders.
东莞力铖机械设备有限公司的工作人员对界面新闻记者表示，此前有一天就接到了400台的订单，公司产能有限，只能停止接单。
Dongguan Liancheng Machinery and Equipment Co. Ltd. staff told the interface reporter, one day received 400 orders, the company has limited capacity, can only stop receiving orders.
面对行业热络的需求，装备制造业重地东莞还为此成立了口罩产业联盟。
Facing the demand of industry heat, Dongguan, an important equipment manufacturing area, also set up a mask industry alliance.
据《南方都市报》报道，2月8日，东莞当地多家口罩设备制造企业成立了东莞口罩装备产业联盟，旨在促进企业成员间合作，畅通上下游供应链，降低采购成本。
On Feb. 8, Dongguan manufacturers set up the Dongguan Mask Equipment Industry Union, which aims to promote cooperation among business members, smooth upstream and downstream supply chains and reduce procurement costs, the Southern Metropolis Daily reported.
除小企业外，不少大型装备企业也开始转产口罩机及相关生产线。
In addition to small enterprises, many large equipment enterprises have also begun to convert masks and related production lines.
2月19日，港口装卸设备厂商华东重机（002685.SZ）公告称，旗下全资子公司广东润星科技有限公司，拟正式开展口罩机生产及销售业务，且已于近日完成经营范围的工商变更。
On February 19, the port handling equipment manufacturer Huadong Heavy Aircraft (002685.SZ) announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Guangdong Run Star Technology Co. Ltd., intends to formally launch the mask machine production and sales business, and has recently completed a range of business changes.
以锂电池制造装备为主业的赢合科技（300457.SZ），在春节期间紧急开发了生产医疗平面医用口罩的全自动一体机。
Win-tech (300457. SZ), which is based on lithium-ion battery manufacturing equipment, developed a fully automated medical mask-maker during the Spring Festival.
2月11日，该公司在深交所互动易上回复投资者提问时称，目前口罩机需求较大，公司订单增长较快。
On Feb. 11, the company in the Shenzhen Stock Exchange interactive easy to answer questions from investors, said that the current demand for mask machine, the company orders faster growth.
广东拓斯达科技股份有限公司（下称拓斯达，300607.SZ）主要从事工业机器人装备的研发和制造。
Guangdong Tosta Technology Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Tosta, 300607.SZ) mainly engaged in industrial robotics equipment development and manufacturing.
近期，该公司长沙重工事业部开始生产全自动平面口罩机，单台口罩机产能可以达到12万只/天。
Recently, the company's Changsha Heavy Industries Department began to produce fully automatic plane mask machine, a single mask machine capacity can reach 120,000 days.
据《三湘都市报》2月13日报道，2月10日开工，三天内已接到300台订单信息，该设备单价为39.8万元。
Work began on Feb. 10 and 300 orders were received in three days, at a unit price of 398,000 yuan.
2月18日，界面新闻记者咨询广东拓斯达长沙重工事业部的工作人员时，对方则表示，口罩机售价为48万元，交付全款后20天保证发货。
On February 18, the interface reporter asked Guangdong Tusada Changsha Heavy Industry Department staff, the other side said that the price of the mask machine 480,000 yuan, 20 days after the delivery of the full guarantee.
以此计算，价格已上涨了两成。
At this rate, the price has gone up 20%.
“涨价是由于上游零部件涨价，我们的产品售价肯定也会随之上涨”，该工作人员表示。
"The price increase is due to higher prices for upstream parts and certainly our prices will go up," the staff said.
张晓薇也向界面新闻记者反映了上游零部件涨价问题。
Zhang Xiaowei also to the interface reporter reflected the upstream parts price rise problem.
“上游的零部件供应紧张，价格随之上涨，紧急调货生产价格还要更高。
"Upstream supply of spare parts is tight, prices are rising and prices for emergency supplies are even higher.
”她说。
'she said.
是面对激增的口罩需求，诸多公司加入口罩生产大军，口罩机随之紧俏。
Faced with surging demand for masks, many companies are joining the army of mask makers, who are in short supply.
据天眼查上的工商注册变更信息显示，今年年1月1日至2月7日，全国超过3000家企业经营范围新增了“口罩、防护服、消毒液、测温仪、医疗器械”等业务。
From January 1 to February 7 this year, more than 3,000 enterprises added masks, protective clothing, disinfectant, thermometers and medical devices to their business scope, according to information on changes in the business registration made available to the public.
包括中石化、比亚迪、上海通用五菱、富士康等在内的大型公司，以及相关的纺织制品、卫生用品生产商红豆、三枪、爹地宝贝等，都开始涉足口罩生产业务。
Large companies including Sinopec, BYD, Shanghai General Wuling, Foxconn, and related textile products, health products manufacturers Red Bean, three guns, Daddy and Baby have all started to dabble in mask production.
2月19日，上海通用五菱首台自主生产的口罩机正式下线，这让其成为国内第一家既生产口罩，也生产口罩机的厂商。
Shanghai's first self-made mask machine went offline on Feb. 19, making it the first manufacturer of both masks and masks in the country.
各地及各公司的口罩生产线紧急投产，随之带来的是关键原材料的需求上涨。
Mask production lines across the country and companies have been brought into production, bringing with them a surge in demand for key raw materials.
医用口罩一般采用多层结构结构，简称为SMS结构：两侧为单层纺粘层（S），中间为单层或多层的熔喷层（M），熔喷层的最佳材料就是熔喷布。
Medical masks are usually multi-storey structures, known as SMS structures: single-layer spindles (S) on either side, single or multi-layer molten layers (M) in the middle, and the best material for the spray coating is the spray coating.
为口罩带来病毒过滤作用的主要材料，是中间的M层——熔喷无纺布。
The main source of viral filtration for masks is the M-layer in the middle - the melt-sprayed non-woven fabric.
熔喷布由一种叫做高熔指纤维的聚丙烯材料制成，它是一种超细静电纤维布，能够有效利用静电吸附病毒粉尘、飞沫，这也是口罩能过滤病毒的重要原因。
Molten cloth is a kind of polypropylene material called high-melt finger fiber. It is a kind of ultra-fine electrostatic fiber cloth, which can effectively use electrostatic adsorption virus dust and droplet, which is also an important reason why masks filter viruses.
“我们只能保证口罩加工的工艺，至于口罩的质量，要看客户自己采购的原材料是否合规。
"We can only guarantee the mask processing process, as to the quality of the mask, depends on the customer's own procurement of the raw materials.
”张晓薇对界面新闻记者表示。
Zhang told reporters at the interface.
保证主要原材料熔喷布的充足采购，成为各口罩生产商急需解决的难题。
To ensure the adequate purchase of main raw materials melt spraying cloth, become the urgent problem of mask manufacturers to solve.
尽管中石化等主营原材料供应厂家承诺基础原材料不涨价，但国内生产熔喷布等关键原材料的厂家并不多。
Although Sinopec and other major raw material suppliers promise not to increase the price of basic raw materials, but domestic production of key raw materials such as spray cloth manufacturers are not many.
据界面新闻统计，目前生产熔喷无纺布的企业主要有恒天嘉华非织造有限公司（下称恒天嘉华）、欣龙控股（000955.SZ）、中石化、山东东营俊富无纺布有限公司、量子金舟（天津）非织造布有限公司等。
According to the interface news statistics, the current production of melt-jet non-woven enterprises are mainly Heng Tianjiahua Non-Weaving Co. Ltd. (Heng Tianjiahua), Yan Lung Holdings (000955.SZ), Sinopec, Shandong Dongying Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd., Quantum Jinzhou (Tianjin) Nonwovens Co. Ltd.
据中国产业用纺织品行业协会统计，中国非织造布行业的生产工艺以纺粘为主。
According to China's industrial textile industry association statistics, China's non-woven industry production process to textile gluing.
2018年，纺粘非织造布的产量为297.12万吨，在非织造布总产量中占比达50%，主要应用于卫生材料等领域；熔喷工艺占比仅为0.9%。
In 2018, the spinning non-woven fabric produced 2.9712 million tons, accounting for 50 per cent of the total non-woven production, mainly used in areas such as sanitary materials; the melting process accounted for only 0.9 per cent.
由此推算，2018年，国内熔喷非织造布的产量为5.35万吨/年。
From this calculation, 2018, domestic production of non-woven melt-jet production of 53,500 tons / year.
这些熔喷布不仅用于口罩，还用于环境保护材料、服装材料、电池隔膜材料、擦拭材料等。
These fuses are used not only for masks, but also for environmental protection materials, clothing materials, battery diaphragm materials, cleaning materials, etc.
据界面新闻此前报道，近期熔喷布的价格已上涨三倍有余。
The Interface News had previously reported that the price of melts had more than tripled recently.
“目前熔喷布的价格可能更高，且市面上已经基本没有货了，本来生产这类产品的企业就不多，”山东临沂一家纺织品生产企业的销售人员对界面新闻记者表示，“我们只能供应纺粘布和水刺布，这两种材料都无法用在口罩内层。
"At present, the price of melts may be higher, and the market is basically out of stock, so not many enterprises would have produced such products," sales staff at a textile manufacturer in Linyi, Shandong province, told the interface reporter. "We can only supply spindles and water-napkins, neither of which can be used inside the mask.
”“想要熔喷布原料，找当地政府协调会是一个不错的选择。
"It would be a good idea to find a local government co-ordinator for the raw materials for the jet.
”上述纺织品企业的销售人员建议道。
"suggested the salesperson at the textile company.
2月15日，陕西省汉中市经济合作局在汉中市人民政府官网上，发布了一条关于征集SMS无纺布和熔喷布采购线索的公告。
On February 15, the Economic Cooperation Bureau of Hanzhong City, Shaanxi Province, issued a notice on the solicitation of SMS non-woven cloth and fuse-jet purchasing clues on the website of the people's government officials of Hanzhong City.
汉中市经济合作局表示，由于口罩市场需求量很大，承担口罩生产任务的当地企业，库存SMS无纺布和熔喷布远不能满足生产需要，因此向社会征求相关物料的采购线索和渠道。
Hanzhong Economic Cooperation Bureau said that due to the high demand for masks market, the local enterprises responsible for mask production tasks, the stock of SMS non-woven cloth and melt-jet fabric far from the production needs, so to ask the community for relevant materials procurement clues and channels.
政府出面征集采购线索，侧面印证了目前原材料采购的困难程度。
The government comes forward to solicit procurement clues, side-verified the current difficulties in the procurement of raw materials.
这种情况在多地出现。
This is happening in many places.
浙江义乌一家无纺布和熔喷布生产企业的销售人员对界面新闻记者表示，目前公司的熔喷布生产与销售已由政府协调对接，不对外部其他厂商接单。
Zhejiang Yiwu a non-woven and melt-jet fabric production enterprises sales staff told the interface reporter, the company's production and sales of the melt jet has been coordinated and docked by the Government, not external other manufacturers.
随着口罩企业相继复工以及新上马的生产线投产，国内的口罩出现大幅提升。
With the resumption of mask enterprises and the new production line put into production, the domestic mask significantly increased.
2月19日，在国务院联防联控机制召开的新闻发布会上，国家发展改革委运行局二级巡视员唐社民表示，截至2月17号，全国口罩产能利用率达109%。
On February 19, at a press conference held by the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism (JCMB), Tang Che-min, second-degree inspector of the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), said capacity utilization of masks nationwide had reached 109 percent as of February 17.
中国纺织品商业协会安全健康防护用品委员会会长雷利民在接受中新社采访时透露，2月底，预计每天能生产各类口罩1.8亿只。
At the end of February, 180 million face masks of all kinds are expected to be produced each day, Rilimin, the head of the China Textile Commerce Association's safety and health protection committee, told China News Agency.
国资委副主任洪斌也表示，目前多家央企跨界转产口罩等医疗物资，包括中石化、国机集团、兵器工业等在内的多家央企，口罩产能已达到了每天130万只。
Hong Bin, vice-director of SASAC, also said that many state-owned enterprises, including Sinopec, the state-owned machinery group and the weapons industry, are now producing 1.3 million masks a day.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
买不到的口罩，卖断货的口罩机。
Can't buy masks, sell off the mask machine.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "买不到的口罩，卖断货的口罩机";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Mask not available; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "多数口罩机厂家的交货期限在6-8周左右，部分厂商则停止接单。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Most mask manufacturer's lead times are about 6 to 8 weeks, and some manufacturers have stopped receiving orders.
N95型口罩生产设备交货时间要150天。
N95 mask production equipment takes 150 days to deliver.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
