“外援”协助武汉红十字会后：理货效率提高，调配要听指令。
"Foreign aid" to help Wuhan Red Cross Society: improve the efficiency of tally, deployment to listen to instructions.
崔慧莹。
Cui Huiying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲（武汉红十字会官网截图/图）全文共3124字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
Wuhan Red Cross official website screenshot / picture of a total of 3,124 words, reading about 7 minutes.
爱心人士捐赠的物资抵达疫区之后，还要经历这样的流程：入库-理货-分类-分配-出库-运送。
Loving people donated goods after arrival in the affected areas, but also go through the process: warehousing - tally - sorting - distribution - warehousing - transport.
作为一家医药商业分销配送上市公司，九州通主要协助“理货”，提高物资分配效率，“我们并不负责物资的分配和运送，只负责物资的出入库、分类堆码等物流管理工作。
As a listed company of medical commercial distribution and distribution, Kyushu Tong mainly assists in "tallying goods" and improving the efficiency of material distribution. "We are not responsible for the distribution and delivery of materials, but for the entry and exit of materials, sorting stacks and other logistics management work.
”刘志峰介绍，分配和运送的后续步骤，不在九州通的工作范围，“调配要听武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部的指令。
Liu Zhifeng said the distribution and delivery of the next steps, not in Kyushu Tong's scope of work, "deployment to be subject to Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Command's directive.
”国家发改委：口罩企业可以开足马力组织生产，疫情过后富余的产量，只要符合标准政府将进行收储。
The National Development and Reform Commission: Mask companies can run at full capacity to produce surplus production after the outbreak, as long as the government meets standards.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 崔慧莹南方周末实习生 杨习得 张雨鹃责任编辑 | 汪韬一边是全国乃至全球爱心人士的捐赠，一边是喊着缺物资的医院，捐给医院的物资为什么总不够？连续三天，因防控新冠肺炎物资调配不及时的问题，武汉红十字会频繁登上热搜。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint South Weekend Journalist Cui Huiying Southern Weekend Intern Yang Xiexue Zhang Xian Donated by loving people nationwide and around the world, and why supplies donated to hospitals are always insufficient for three days because of delays in controlling the deployment of new crowns and pneumonia.
2020年1月31日中午12点，九州通医药物流公司（以下简称九州通）正式协助武汉红十字会分装物资，在凤凰卫视报道中，九州通一位工作人员称紧急的医疗物资在2小时内即能完成到货到分配的过程。
At 12 noon on January 31, 2020, Kyushu Tong Medical Logistics Co. (hereinafter referred to as Kyushu Tong) officially assists Wuhan Red Cross Society in reloading materials. In the Phoenix Satellite TV report, a Kyushu staff member said emergency medical supplies can be delivered within two hours of distribution process.
2月2日下午，九州通董事与秘书处主任刘志峰告诉南方周末记者，较快的一单定向捐赠已达到这个速度，“后面理顺了会更快”。
On the afternoon of February 2, Kyushu Tong directors and the director of the secretariat Liu Zhifeng told Southern Weekend that a relatively fast targeted donation had reached this speed, "the later straightened out will be faster."
此前，1月26日，民政部指定湖北省红十字会、湖北省慈善总会、湖北省青少年发展基金会、武汉市慈善总会、武汉市红十字会5家牵头，接收慈善组织为湖北省武汉市疫情防控工作募集的款物。
Earlier, on January 26, the Ministry of Civil Affairs designated the Hubei Red Cross Society, Hubei Provincial Charitable General Association, Hubei Provincial Youth Development Foundation, Wuhan Municipal Charitable General Association and Wuhan City Red Cross Society to take the lead in receiving money and goods collected by charity organizations for the prevention and control of the epidemic in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
爱心人士捐赠的物资抵达疫区之后，还要经历这样的流程：入库-理货-分类-分配-出库-运送。
Loving people donated goods after arrival in the affected areas, but also go through the process: warehousing - tally - sorting - distribution - warehousing - transport.
在武汉红十字会陷入争议后，作为一家医药商业分销配送上市公司，九州通主要协助“理货”，提高物资分配效率，“我们并不负责物资的分配和运送，只负责物资的出入库、分类堆码等物流管理工作。
In Wuhan Red Cross Society into controversy, as a commercial distribution and distribution of medicine listed companies, Kyushu Tongtong mainly to help "tallying goods" to improve the efficiency of material distribution, "we are not responsible for the distribution and delivery of materials, only responsible for material storage, classification pile-up code and other logistics management.
”刘志峰介绍，分配和运送的后续步骤，不在九州通的工作范围，“调配要听武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部（以下简称指挥部）的指令。
Liu Zhifeng said the distribution and delivery of the next steps, not in Kyushu Tong's scope of work, "deployment to Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Command (hereafter referred to as the command) to the instructions.
”指挥部成立于1月20日，统一领导、指挥武汉全市疫情防控工作。
The headquarters was established on January 20 to provide unified leadership and direction for the prevention and control of the epidemic in Wuhan.
武汉市市长周先旺任指挥长，指挥部下设应急保障、宣传、交通、市场、医疗救治、疫情防控、社区、综合等8个工作小组。
Wuhan City Mayor Zhou Xianwang as commander-in-chief, the command under the emergency support, publicity, transportation, market, medical treatment, epidemic prevention and control, community, integrated and other eight working groups.
1附捐赠清单，发货更快阔大的武汉汉阳国博中心展馆，来自各地的物资纷纷涌入这里，这里一度是湖北省红十字会和武汉市红十字会共用的仓库，积压的不只有寄给武汉的物资，还有黄冈等地的物资。
1 Attached is a list of donations to the Wuhan Hanyang National Exhibition Center, a large and fast-growing exhibition hall that once housed the Hubei Red Cross Society and Wuhan Red Cross Society. There is a huge backlog of materials sent not only to Wuhan but also to Huanggang and other places.
刘志峰介绍，仅2月1日一天，就有12222件物资入库汉阳国博中心展馆。
Liu Zhifeng said that on February 1 alone, 12,222 items were put into the exhibition hall of the Hanyang National Exhibition Center.
2月3日上午，仓库现场工作人员告诉南方周末记者，捐赠武汉市红十字会的物资将继续运往武汉汉阳国博中心展馆，而捐给湖北省红十字会的物资，已部分运往其他仓库。
On the morning of February 3, workers at the warehouse told Southern Weekend that materials donated by Wuhan Red Cross Society would continue to be transported to Wuhan Hanyang National Exhibition Center, while materials donated to Hubei Red Cross Society had been partially transported to other warehouses.
据凤凰卫视此前报道，现场人员介绍，大批量急用物资下了飞机找地方就可以分配，不一定要再运到仓库。
Phoenix Satellite TV previously reported that the scene personnel said that large quantities of emergency supplies off the aircraft to find places can be distributed, not necessarily to the warehouse.
目前处理物资的不只是九州通公司，还有其他公司及政府部门各司其职：武汉城投卸货；九州通负责入库物资的分类堆码；武汉市场监督管理局派驻人员负责商品质量和是否医用的鉴别；武汉市统计局派驻人员统计物资数量。
At present, it is not only Kyushu Tong Company that handles the goods, but also other companies and government departments: Wuhan Citycast Unload; Kyushu Tong is responsible for the classification and stacking codes of the materials put into storage; Wuhan Market Supervision Authority personnel are responsible for the quality and medical identification; Wuhan Bureau of Statistics stationed personnel statistics quantity.
在家等着收快递的你，很清楚知道自己买了什么，店家也会附上发货清单。
Waiting at home to collect express delivery, very clear know what they have bought, the store will also attach shipping list.
但全国涌来的物资，五花八门，什么都有。
But the influx of goods, a variety of things, everything.
“要打开才知道里面装的是什么；其次要分类，寄来的有医疗物资，也有方便面等食品；最后要鉴别，口罩有医用的也有非医用，防护服是不是符合医用标准等。
"Open it to see what's in it. Second, sort it out, sending medical supplies and instant noodles. Finally, identify whether the mask is medical or non-medical, whether it meets medical standards, etc.
”刘志峰列举了诸多难点。
Mr Liu cited a number of difficulties.
这些难点，此前红十字会也遇到过，“虽然明确写了接收什么物资，但收来的物资里连卫生棉都有。
These difficulties, the Red Cross has encountered before, "although clearly written to receive what material, but the goods received even sanitary cotton.
”武汉红十字会工作人员告诉南方周末记者。
Wuhan Red Cross staff told Southern Weekend reporter.
九州通接手之后，提高了物资分类及出库、入库的流转效率。
After taking over, Kyushu has improved the efficiency of material classification and transfer from warehouse to warehouse.
但每一笔捐赠物资仍需登记在案有据可查，如果捐赠者附上发货清单，更有助于加快后续处置。
However, each donation still needs to be documented and, if the donor attaches a shipping list, it will help to expedite follow-up.
据新京报我们视频现场报道，口罩、防护服、护目镜等医疗物资已经被放在了应急产品专区。
Medical supplies such as masks, protective clothing and goggles have been placed in emergency product areas, according to the Beijing News's live video report.
理货完成之后，所有货品出库都要有出库单。
After finishing the tally, all the goods must have the warehouse out list.
如何发货，则要看是不是定向捐赠物资。
How to deliver the goods depends on whether or not the targeted donation of materials.
“定向捐赠物资的目的地更加明确，配送会更快一些。
"Targeted donations are going to be more targeted and delivered more quickly.
” 刘志峰说，比如，有出库单显示，定向捐赠物资正在送往武汉周边的黄冈、黄石等地。
For example, according to Liu Zhifeng, targeted donations are being sent to places such as Huanggang and Huang Shi, which border Wuhan.
不过，虽然定向捐赠会提高配送效率，也有采访对象担心，大家都定向捐赠给一些三甲医院，同样缺乏物资的其他医院则会分不到物资，仍然需要一些非定向的物资供统一调配。
However, while targeted donations will improve delivery efficiency, there are concerns that some Triple A hospitals will be targeted for donation, that other hospitals with similar shortages will not receive supplies and that some non-targeted materials will still be required for consolidation.
如果捐赠者没有明确定向捐给谁，分配给各个单位多少物资的指令则来自指挥部。
In the absence of clearly targeted donor contributions, instructions on how much to allocate to each unit come from headquarters.
指挥部如何知晓哪些医院缺乏物资？2月1日，据《中国慈善家》报道，医院缺少物资可以找省卫健委或者武汉市疫情指挥部说明情况，再由指挥部根据库存情况向卫健委下达分发指令给市红十字会。
According to China Philanthropists on Feb. 1, hospitals are short of supplies to seek clarification from the provincial health committee or Wuhan city epidemic command, which then issues instructions to the city's Red Cross based on stock levels, the newspaper reported.
收到发放指令后，红十字会工作人员会向外发放物资。
Upon receipt of the distribution order, ICRC staff distribute the material.
据南方周末记者了解，目前，九州通依然遵循这一发货流程。
According to Southern Weekend reporter understands, at present, Kyushu Tongtong still follows this delivery process.
分类之后，九州通将药品、器械、重点器械产品数据交市卫健委分配，非药品类交市发改委分配。
After the classification, Kyushu will be medicine, equipment, key equipment product data to the market health committee distribution, non-drug class distribution to the NDRC.
在收到上述单位的出库下发调拨指令后，在九州云仓系统中开据出库单、打印出库拣货单。
After receiving the transfer order from the above-mentioned units, the warehouse system in Kyushu will issue warehouse receipt slips and print out the warehouse pick-up list.
现场拣选完成后，核减库存确认，将拣选物资按照配送单位投放出库暂存区，等待配送。
Upon completion of site selection, inventory reduction will be confirmed, materials will be selected in accordance with the distribution units put out of the temporary storage area, waiting for distribution.
出库之后，由谁配送、如何配送到各家单位，“是自取物资还是送货上门，我不太清楚。
After the storehouse, who distributes, how distributes to each unit, "is the self-collection material or delivers the door, I do not know clearly.
”刘志峰说，“据我了解中国邮政是一家配送单位。
"I understand that China Post is a distribution unit," Liu said.
”目前九州通已派驻35位工作人员到仓库现场工作，每天晚班人员会在24点进行轧账，对当天收发货完成的商品进行动态盘点，保证物资的准确。
Kyushu now has 35 staff assigned to the warehouse site, and the night shift workers roll accounts at 24: 00 pm to take a dynamic count of the goods received and delivered on the same day to ensure the accuracy of the goods.
2武汉红十字会主要工作：接听咨询电话，告知捐赠手续2020年2月2日晚，深陷舆论漩涡的武汉红十字会宣传组负责人王超接受了南方周末记者专访。
Wuhan Red Cross main work: answer the phone call, inform the donation procedures Feb. 2, 2020, wang chao, director of Wuhan Red Cross propaganda team, was interviewed by Southern Weekend reporter.
他很委屈，甚至一度哽咽，他也注意到有企业用直升机直接把物资运到了武汉协和医院的新闻，心里特别高兴。
He was aggrieved, even for a while choking, he also noted the news that the company used helicopters to transport supplies directly to Wuhan Concorde Hospital, was particularly pleased.
“我们的家乡和家人就在武汉，在这么严峻的疫情面前，谁不想把最紧迫需要的物资送到医护人员手上？你说我们能力不匹配，那确实客观存在，但骂我们囤着物资不发，让人寒心。
"Our hometown and family are in Wuhan, in the face of such a severe epidemic, who do not want to send the most urgent needs to medical personnel? You said that we do not match the objective, it is objective, but curse us hoarding materials do not send people cold.
”王超反复强调，截至目前，武汉红十字会的主要工作始终没有变过——接听来自全国的咨询电话，告诉他们捐赠的具体手续如何办理。
So far, the main work of the Wuhan Red Cross has not changed - answering calls from across the country and telling them how to process the donations, Wang stressed repeatedly.
据北青深一度2月2日报道，武汉红十字志愿者的工作主要是电话接听、物资搬运、仓库管理三块，最大的组就是电话接听组，有一百人左右，仓库管理和物资搬运有三四十人。
Wuhan Red Cross volunteers are mainly engaged in telephone answering, material handling and warehouse management. The largest group is the telephone reception group, which has about 100 people, and the warehouse administration and material handling have 30 to 40 people.
“所有报道都在说红十字会的仓库，但仓库属于武汉市应急办的储备仓库，由指挥部统一在用，中间包括物资的流转、分配、储存，包括里面的保安，都跟红十字会没有关系，也不归我们管理。
"All the reports are talking about the Red Cross warehouse, but the warehouse is a warehouse of the Wuhan City Emergency Office, which is under the unified use of the headquarters, including the circulation, distribution and storage of materials, including the security inside, which has nothing to do with the Red Cross or under our administration.
”王超说。
"said Wang Chao.
有医护人员揣测，仓库里符合医用标准的N95口罩积压不发，是要留给即将开设的火神山医院使用，差别待遇引发不满。
Medical surgeons speculate that N95 masks that meet medical standards in the warehouse are piling up for use at the upcoming Mount Fire Hospital, sparking discontent over the differential treatment.
王超说，他并不了解相关情况，也没有听说过要把N95口罩留待日后的说法。
Wang Chao said he did not know about the situation, nor did he hear about leaving the N95 mask for the future.
2月1日,火神山医院负责现场捐赠的詹先生在接受《新京报》采访时说，他们将直接接收捐赠物资,不经过武汉市红十字会，属于“特事特办”，接收的定点捐赠如果可以用，他们再补手续报给红十字会。
On 1 February, in an interview with the Beijing News, Mr. Zhan, who was in charge of the on-site donation at Mount Huoshen Hospital, told the Beijing News that they would receive donations directly.
2月1日，中国红十字总会工作组赶赴武汉，指导、督促湖北省、武汉市两级红十字会做好捐赠款物的接收使用管理工作，确保规范高效、公开透明，主动接受社会监督，为一线医护人员提供有力支援。
On February 1, a working group of the China Association of Chinese Chaos went to Wuhan to guide and urge the Red Cross Society of Hubei and Wuhan to do a good job of receiving and using donations, ensuring high efficiency, transparency and voluntary public supervision, and providing strong support to front-line medical workers.
同一天，武汉市红十字会对定向捐赠流程作出调整：境内外单位或个人如有定向捐赠医院，可直接与定向捐赠医疗机构对接，确认后可直接将物资发往受捐单位。
On the same day, the Wuhan Red Cross made adjustments to the flow of targeted donations: units or individuals inside or outside the country who have a targeted donation hospital may directly dock with the designated donation medical institution, after which they may send the materials directly to the recipient unit.
1月30日，武汉协和医院医生在微博及朋友圈请求医疗物资支援“不是告急！是没有了！”。
On January 30, doctors at Wuhan Hsiao Wo Hospital asked for medical assistance in Weibo and in a circle of friends "not in a hurry! No more!"
当天下午，人民日报官方微博转发消息，迅速引起关注。
That afternoon, the People's Daily official Weibo forwarded the news, quickly attracted attention.
随后，湖北省中西医结合医院、武汉市金银潭医院等多家疫情防控一线医院都发出物资告急公告。
Subsequently, Hubei Province combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital, Wuhan City gold and silver pool hospital and other diseases control first-line hospitals issued urgent notice of materials.
据南方周末记者统计，1月31日到2月1日，短短两天时间内，至少有29万个医用口罩、930套防护服、14.75万双医用手套、4500套隔离衣抵达武汉协和医院。
From January 31 to February 1, at least 290,000 medical masks, 930 suits of protective clothing, 147,500 pairs of medical gloves and 4,500 pieces of protective clothing arrived at Wuhan Concord Hospital in just two days, according to Southern Weekend reporter.
另有一批爱心人士定向捐赠的2吨的医用防护用品于2月1日凌晨送抵，该院一位后勤保障人员此前接受采访时表示，他们每天需要的防护服为700-800套，该批物资大约可维持一周。
Another 2 tons of medical protective equipment donated by a group of caring people arrived in the early hours of 1 February, after a logistics worker at the hospital said in an interview that they needed 700 to 800 suits a day, which would last about a week.
但就目前疫情来看，一线医务工作者恐将面对持续数月的防控工作，仍需更多社会各界支援。
But with the current outbreak, front-line health workers are likely to face months of prevention and control efforts, and will need more community support.
2月3日，国家发展改革委副主任连维良在国务院新闻办举办的新闻发布会上说，交通运输部门利用5个既有的物流园区，建立进湖北应急物资道路运输中转服务站，对运输医疗物资等相关车辆“不停车、不检查、不收费”，优先通行。
On 3 February, Lianwei Liang, deputy director of the National Development and Reform Commission, told a press conference organized by the State Council Information Office that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, using five established logistics parks, had set up a road transit service station for emergency supplies from Hubei Province.
他还表示，口罩企业可以开足马力组织生产，疫情过后富余的产量，只要符合标准政府将进行收储。
He also said mask companies could run at full capacity to produce surplus production after the outbreak, as long as the standard government will collect them.
这一日，已有不少企业开工。
By this date, many enterprises had started work.
“很多生产企业已被政府接管，生产力会随着春节假期结束恢复。
"A lot of production companies have been taken over by the government and productivity will recover with the end of the Spring Festival.
”一位为自家单位员工订购口罩，却被多家生产企业“跑单”的企业家告诉南方周末记者。
An entrepreneur ordering masks for his own staff was told Southern Weekend by a group of entrepreneurs who were "running alone" by a number of companies.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题宅到发慌不如静心回望▼属于我们的2019▼。
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“外援”协助武汉红十字会后：理货效率提高，调配要听指令。
"Foreign aid" to help Wuhan Red Cross Society: improve the efficiency of tally, deployment to listen to instructions.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“外援”协助武汉红十字会后：理货效率提高，调配要听指令";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
