韩国一教堂千人礼拜成重灾区，大邱呼吁250万市民勿外出。
One thousand people worshipped in a church in South Korea, and Daegu appealed to 2.5 million people not to go out.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月19日，韩国大邱市疑似出现超级传播事件的教堂附近，工作人员正在消毒。
Workers disinfect near a church in Daegu, South Korea, suspected of a super-epidemic on February 19.
来源：中央日报记者：潘金花“ 大邱市一药店店员表示，MERS时期大邱没有出现确诊病例，人们并没有感到特别担心，但这次大家就像“打仗一样”，非常紧张。
"There were no confirmed cases in Daegu during the MERS period," said Peng Jinhua, a drugstore clerk. "People were not particularly worried about the absence of confirmed cases in Daegu during the MERS period.
”韩国中央防疫对策本部2月20日通报，截至当天下午4时，韩国再新增22例新冠病毒感染病例，累计确诊病例达104例，且出现了首例死亡病例。
South Korea has 22 new cases of the virus, with 104 confirmed cases and the first case of death, as of 4: 00 pm on the same day, the ministry said.
韩国中央应急处置本部副本部长金刚立20日表示，新型冠状病毒疫情超出防疫网，已开始在韩国社区全面扩散。
The new coronavirus outbreak has spread beyond the epidemic prevention network and has begun to spread across the country's communities, Kim Gang-li, deputy minister of the Central Emergency Management Agency, said Tuesday.
金刚立表示，综合考虑流行病学调查结果，中央应急处置本部和中央防疫对策本部判断新冠病毒感染的疫情非常严重。
Jin Gangli said that, taking into account the results of epidemiological investigation, the Central Emergency Management Headquarters and the Central Preventive Measures Headquarters judged the new crown virus infection to be very serious.
近期感染途径不明的确诊病例在首尔、大邱等地区剧增，疫情已从海外流入进入社区传播阶段。
Recent confirmed cases with unknown infection route have surged in Seoul, Daegu and other areas, and the epidemic has moved from overseas to the community transmission stage.
金刚立表示，在此情况下，政府正在升级防疫应对体系，继续加大检疫力度严防病毒从海外流入，还计划在确诊病例集中的大邱新设8个病毒筛查诊所，并再安排24名公共卫生医师。
In this context, Mr Kim said the Government was upgrading the anti-epidemic system, continuing to step up quarantine efforts to prevent the influx of the virus from overseas, and planned to establish eight new virus screening clinics in Taegu, where the number of confirmed cases was concentrated, and to assign 24 more public health practitioners.
来源：中央日报截至当地时间19日下午4时，韩国51例确诊病例的地区分布如上。
Source: As of 4: 00 p.m. local time, the regional distribution of 51 confirmed cases in Korea is as follows.
左侧从上往下为，首尔13例，仁川1例，忠清南道2例，全罗北道1例，光州2例，全罗南道1例；右侧为，京畿道12例，庆尚北道3例，大邱16例。
From top to bottom on the left, 13 cases from Seoul, 1 case from Incheon, 2 cases from Chongnam Province, 1 case from Northern Province, 2 cases from Kwangju Province, 1 case from Gyeonggi Province, 12 cases from Gyeonggi Province, 3 cases from Gyeonggi Province and 16 cases from Daegu Province.
在截至20日下午新增的22例病例中，有21例来自庆尚北道和大邱市，1例来自首尔。
Of the 22 new cases reported as of the afternoon of the 20th, 21 were from Gyeongshan North Province and Daegu City, and one was from Seoul.
其中，有5人与第31例（61岁韩国女性）病例常去的教堂（新天地耶稣教会）有关。
Of these, five were related to the church (Jesuit Society of Xintiandi), where 31 cases (61-year-old Korean women) were frequent.
而在当天上午新增的31例病例中，也有30例来自庆尚北道和大邱市，1例来自首尔。
Of the 31 new cases reported that morning, 30 were from Gyeongshan North Province and Daegu City, and one was from Seoul.
其中，有23人与第31例病例常去的教堂有关。
Of these, 23 were associated with the church where the thirty-first case was frequent.
由此，与第31例有关的确诊病例增至至少42例，庆尚北道和大邱市累计确诊70例。
As a result, the number of confirmed cases related to the thirty-first case increased to at least 42, with a cumulative total of 70 cases diagnosed in Gyeongshan North Province and Daegu City.
据韩联社报道，第31例患者7日首次出现发冷、咽喉痛等症状，从当天起至18日确诊前一直在某医院接受住院治疗，该医院的一名工作人员也确诊感染。
The 31 patients first developed chills and sore throats on the 7th, and were hospitalized in a hospital from the same day until they were diagnosed, a staff member of the hospital said.
该患者还在出现相关症状的9日、16日以及出现症状前2次，共4次前往教堂。
The patient also went to church four times on the 9th and 16th days and two times before the onset of symptoms.
韩国中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬19日表示，卫生部门认为第31例病例去过的教堂内发生了超级传播事件，可能有很多人与病例接触，卫生部门正在制定对整个教堂进行筛检试验和诊断试验的计划。
South Korea's Central Preventive Measures Minister Zheng Yingjing said on the 19th, the health authorities believe the 31 cases of the church to have occurred in the church, may have a large number of people contact with the case, the health authorities are developing a screening test and diagnostic test plan for the entire church.
大邱是首尔、釜山、仁川之外的韩国第四大城市。
Daegu is the fourth largest city in South Korea outside Seoul, Busan and Incheon.
综合路透社与美联社报道，大邱市长权泳臻已呼吁该市250万居民不要外出。
Mayor Kwon Young-jin has appealed to the city's 2.5 million residents not to go out, Reuters reported.
郑银敬则表示，已从新天地教会获取了本月9日和16日与第31例病例一起进行礼拜的1001人的名单，正在对这些人员采取居家隔离措施，并通过电话确认这些人员是否出现症状。
Zheng Yingjing said he had obtained a list of 1,001 people from Xintiandi Church who attended services with the 31st case on the 9th and 16th of this month.
根据大邱市政府发布的情况，截至20日上午，在这1001人中，已有90人表示出现了感染症状，另有515人称未有不适，其余396人尚未取得联系。
By the morning of the 20th, 90 of the 1,001 had reported symptoms of infection, 515 said they were not feeling well and 396 were still missing, according to the city government of Daegu.
图为新天地教会举行的礼拜活动，人员十分密集。
The picture shows a church service held in Xintiandi Church with a very intensive staff.
来源：读者提供给《韩国日报》的照片据《中央日报》报道，自昨日起，大邱市多个地区的人流就已开始明显下降，涉事教堂所在的建筑已禁止出入，附近的金融机构、邮局、医院及药店也基本都张贴了“禁止非办理业务者/有感冒症状者入内”的告示，平时人流量很大的胡同在下午几乎看不到人影，教堂附近的住宅区也已展开了紧急防疫消毒工作。
Since yesterday, traffic in many areas of Daegu has begun to decline noticeably, with "off-limits" notices posted at financial institutions, post offices, hospitals and pharmacies in the vicinity of the city, and few people seen in the afternoon in nearby financial institutions, post offices, hospitals and pharmacies, and emergency vaccination campaigns have been launched in residential areas near the church.
昨日下午从教堂附近大邱地铁1号线大明站出站的市民中，九成都戴着口罩，当地居民表示，截至前一日，戴口罩的人还只有三四成左右。
About 90 per cent of residents who left Daming Station on Line 1 of the Daegu Subway near the church yesterday afternoon were wearing masks, and local residents said only about 30-40 per cent were wearing them as of the previous day.
而从昨日起，教堂附近一些药店的口罩及手部消毒液等基本已全部售罄，化妆品店的口罩也已售罄。
And since yesterday, some pharmacies near the church have sold out of masks and hand sanitizers, and cosmetics stores have sold out of masks.
19日，教堂附近药店的门上贴着“口罩已售罄”的告示。
A sign saying "masks sold out" was posted on the door of a drugstore near the church on Thursday.
来源：中央日报大邱市其他地区的药店也是同样的光景。
Source: The same is true of pharmacies in other parts of Daegu, the central daily.
《中央日报》称，如大邱中区德善洞的某药店，在19日上午一开门就迎来了大批的顾客，200多个口罩三小时就卖完了，20多个体温计也被抢购一空。
One drugstore in Taegu-Sin Dong district opened its doors on Monday morning with more than 200 masks sold out in three hours and more than 20 others snapped up, the China Daily said.
店员表示，MERS时期大邱没有出现确诊病例，人们并没有感到特别担心，但这次大家就像“打仗一样”，非常紧张。
There were no confirmed cases in Daegu during the MERS period. People were not particularly worried, but this time it was like "fighting" and very nervous.
与大邱·庆北地区几乎同属一个城市圈的釜山·庆南地区的气氛也很紧张。
Tension also reigned in Busan, an area that shares almost the same urban ring as Daegu Gyeongbei.
如今，该地区的一些公司已开始集体采购口罩，要求外出的员工佩戴。
Now, some companies in the region have started to buy face masks collectively, requiring employees to wear them when they go out.
公共建筑物和企业楼房的门口，也基本都摆上了手部消毒液和消毒喷雾。
Public buildings and enterprise buildings outside the door, also basically put on hand disinfectant and disinfectant spray.
庆南政府相关人士表示，由于两地之间有铁路、公路连通，人员来往较为频繁，所以人们非常警惕，政府正在制定更进一步的防疫方案，计划对公交车和铁路交通等进行消毒，最大限度切断外部传染源。
Gyeongnam government officials say people are on alert because of rail and road links and frequent travel between the two places, and the government is working on a further vaccination programme to sterilize buses and rail traffic to cut off external sources of infection to a minimum.
韩国中央防疫对策本部已表示将进一步扩大新冠病毒检测对象的范围。
South Korea's central anti-epidemic policy headquarters has said it will further expand the range of new crown virus detection targets.
该部20日发布了新冠病毒疫情应对指南第六版，对疑似病例适用了新的病例定义，有相关接触史并出现疑似症状者、不需要住院治疗但原因不明的轻度肺炎患者、以及医生判断认为的疑似感染者均纳入其中。
The ministry released the sixth edition of its New Crown Virus Response Guide on the 20th, applying the new case definition to suspected cases, people with relevant history of exposure and suspected symptoms, patients with mild pneumonia who do not require hospitalization but whose cause is unknown, and suspected infected persons judged by a doctor to be among them.
另外，确诊病例的接触者在接受隔离后的解除隔离标准也有所提高。
In addition, the criteria for the release from isolation of those who come into contact with confirmed cases have been raised.
今后即使没有异常症状，这些接触者都需在隔离第13天时接受病毒检测，只有检测结果呈阴性才可解除隔离。
In future, even in the absence of abnormal symptoms, these contacts will be tested for the virus at 13 days of isolation, and isolation will only be lifted if negative results are obtained.
截至20日下午4时，除确诊患者外，韩国接受新冠病毒检测的人数为13098人，其中11238人的结果呈阴性，还有1860人的结果尚未出炉。
As of 4: 00 pm on the 20th, in addition to confirmed patients, the number of people tested for the new crown virus in Korea is 13,098, of which 11,238 have negative results, while 1,860 have yet to be released.
来源：韩国中央防疫对策本部韩国传染病专家们认为，新冠病毒感染的肺炎的死亡率高于甲型流感，低于中东呼吸综合征（MERS）。
Source: Korea Central Preventive Measures Headquarters Korea infectious disease experts believe that the new crown virus infection pneumonia mortality rate is higher than influenza A, lower than the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).
韩国新型传染病中央临床委员会20日在记者会上已提醒高龄或有基础疾病的病例可能会出现临床重症。
The Central Clinical Committee of the New South Korean Infectious Diseases (KCDC) warned at a press conference on Monday that cases of advanced or basic diseases may develop serious clinical problems.
该委员会推测，新冠病例初期感染阶段病毒复制活跃，无症状或轻症患者在确诊前的活动可能形成社区传播。
The commission speculates that viral replication is active in the early stages of infection in new crown cases, and that the activities of asymptomatic or mild patients prior to diagnosis may result in community transmission.
该委员会已呼吁政府着手研制新冠疫苗和治疗药物，并表示当前疫情很可能转入社区传播阶段，需要整改行政、防疫、医疗体系，最大限度地有效运用公共卫生资源。
The committee has called on the government to move forward with the development of a new crown vaccine and therapeutic drugs, saying the current epidemic is likely to move into the community-based transmission phase, requiring administrative, epidemic prevention and medical systems to maximize the effective use of public health resources.
韩国国会保健福祉委员会20日已召开全体会议，表决通过了旨在应对疫情的三项法案，具体包括《关于预防及管理传染病法律》《检疫法》《医疗法》的修订案。
The Health and Welfare Commission of the National Assembly held a plenary session yesterday and voted on three bills aimed at dealing with the epidemic, including amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Management of Infectious Diseases and the Quarantine Law and the Medical Law.
这些修订案经法制司法委员会审批后，最快将在月内提交国会全体会议处理。
These amendments, once approved by the Rule of Law and Justice Commission, will be submitted to the National Assembly in plenary session at the earliest within a month.
根据《关于预防及管理传染病法律》修订案，若传染病预警级别高于“注意”，政府将为易感染群体提供口罩等物资，在指定期间可禁止口罩和手部消毒液出口，医务人员和药剂师开处方和配制药物时将有义务确认患者的海外旅行史。
According to the amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Management of Infectious Diseases, if the alert level of infectious diseases is higher than "attention," the Government will provide vulnerable groups with materials such as masks and hand sanitizers for a specified period of time, and medical staff and pharmacists will be obliged to confirm the patient's overseas travel history when prescribing and dispensing drugs.
根据《检疫法》修订案，保健福祉部长官可要求法务部长官禁止来自疫区或疫情风险地区的外国人入境。
Under an amendment to the Quarantine Act, the Minister of Health and Welfare may require the Minister of Justice to prohibit the entry of foreigners from epidemic or epidemic-risk areas.
《医疗法》修订案规定，医疗机构将新建传染病监控系统，加强对患者、监护人及医务人员的防控工作。
The amendments to the Law on Medical Care stipulate that medical institutions will establish a new surveillance system for infectious diseases and strengthen the prevention and control of patients, guardians and medical personnel.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国一教堂千人礼拜成重灾区，大邱呼吁250万市民勿外出。
One thousand people worshipped in a church in South Korea, and Daegu appealed to 2.5 million people not to go out.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国一教堂千人礼拜成重灾区，大邱呼吁250万市民勿外出";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "大邱市一药店店员表示，MERS时期大邱没有出现确诊病例，人们并没有感到特别担心，但这次大家就像“打仗一样”，非常紧张。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A drugstore clerk at Daegu says people were not particularly worried about the absence of confirmed cases in Daegu in the MERS era, but this time it was like "fighting" and very nervous.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
