深圳将全面取消企业复工复产审批，先复工再核查。
Shenzhen will completely cancel the re-operation of enterprises to approve the resumption of work, work before verification.
梁宙。
Liang Zhouzhou.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：梁宙“ 对于达到复产复工标准的企业，现在即可在报备后先行复产复工，无须等待审核或批准。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Liang ZhouFor enterprises that meet the criteria for resuming production, they can resume production first after submission, without waiting for examination or approval.
”2020年2月20日，界面新闻从深圳市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部办公室获悉，深圳市将全面取消企业复工核实备案审批，改由企业备案承诺。
On February 20, 2020, the Interface News learned from the Shenzhen Municipal Headquarters for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection.
当前，新冠肺炎疫情防控进入关键时期，各地的复产复工工作也在紧张开展。
At present, the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention and control enter a critical period, all over the resumption of production work is also under intense development.
2月3日，深圳市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部办公室发布《关于实施企业复产复工报备制度的通告》要求，对2月9日后复产复工企业实施报备制度。
On February 3, the office of the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Shenzhen issued the Notice on the Implementation of the Reporting System for the Resumption of Work by Enterprises, which requires the resumption of production after February 9.
企业复产复工需要满足防控机制到位、员工排查到位、设施物资到位、内部管理到位等要求。
Enterprises to resume production needs to meet the control mechanisms in place, staff clearance in place, facilities and materials in place, internal management in place and other requirements.
其时，深圳市还要求，实行复产复工报备复核制度，全市各类企业复产复工，要在具备上述条件的前提下，在开工前须至少提前5日（自然日）向所在辖区疫情防控指挥部报备，提交复产复工备案表、疫情防控承诺书。
At the same time, Shenzhen City also required that the system of restarting work be implemented and that all types of enterprises in the city resume production and return to work under the precondition of meeting the above-mentioned conditions.
深圳市于1月19日出现首例输入性新冠肺炎确诊病例。
The first confirmed case of imported new crown pneumonia was reported in Shenzhen on January 19.
截至2月19日24时，据深圳市卫健委通报，深圳累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例416例。
As of 2400 hours February 19, Shenzhen Health Commission reported that a cumulative total of 416 cases of new crown pneumonia were reported in Shenzhen.
2月19日当天全市无新增确诊病例。
There were no new confirmed cases in the city on February 19.
目前，重症10例、危重症10例，死亡2例，累计出院182例。
At present, 10 severe cases, 10 critical cases, 2 deaths, 182 cases of cumulative discharge.
287例密切接触者正在接受医学观察。
287 close contacts are under medical observation.
如今随着疫情防控形势的变化，深圳市规定的企业复产复工政策也开始调整。
Now, with the change of epidemic prevention and control situation, the re-production policy of Shenzhen enterprises began to adjust.
2月20日，一张关于深圳市复产复工的截图在网络上传播，该截图内容显示，“市政府将全面取消企业复工核实备案审批，改由企业备案承诺即可。
On February 20, a screenshot of the resumption of production in Shenzhen was circulated on the Internet. The screenshot showed that "the municipal government will cancel the examination and approval of the re-entry of enterprises and make a commitment by the enterprises for the record.
请还未复工的企业结合自身实际，在落实疫情防控管理工作的前提下，尽快复工复产。
Enterprises that have not returned to work are invited to resume work as soon as possible, taking into account their actual conditions and under the premise of implementing epidemic prevention and control.
”该截图还显示，深圳市对于外地返深人员实行的隔离措施也发生了变化，“调整为1+1（湖北、浙江温州），目前对上述两地区人员分类实行隔离措施，其余地区全面解除。
The screenshot also shows that Shenzhen's quarantine measures for people returning from other places have been changed, "adjusted to 1 + 1 (Hubei and Wenzhou, Zhejiang).
”对此，深圳市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部办公室工作人员告诉界面新闻，深圳取消企业复工核实备案审批改由企业备案承诺的消息属实，文件可能会在未来一两天内正式发布。
In response, the staff of the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command office of Shenzhen's new coronavirus infection told the interface that Shenzhen canceled the company's decision to resume work to verify that the company had made a commitment to file the case, and the document could be released within the next day or two.
指挥部办公室工作人员表示，对于达到复产复工标准的企业，现在可以先向政府部门备案，按照要求做好防疫措施就可以复产复工。
Command office staff said that enterprises that meet the criteria for resumption of production can now file with government departments, according to the requirements of good epidemic prevention measures can be resumed production.
复产复工后，政府部门或者街道工作人员随时会上门检查，检查企业的防疫工作是否到位。
Upon resumption of production, government departments or street workers will inspect the premises at any time to check whether the epidemic prevention work is in place.
对于外地返深人员隔离措施，该工作人员表示，在新的政策出台后，对于湖北省和浙江省温州市这两个地区的返深人员，仍然需要隔离观察14天，“如果他们有居家隔离的条件，又没有发热等特殊情况需要医学观察隔离的，可以居家隔离。
With regard to the field re-entry segregation, the staff member indicated that after the introduction of the new policy, the Deep Returnees in Hubei and Wenzhou areas of Zhejiang Province would still need to be observed in isolation for 14 days.
而湖北、浙江温州以外地区的返深人员，没有发热等特殊情况的，可以直接复工。
But Hubei, Zhejiang Wenzhou area deep-back personnel, no fever and other special circumstances, can directly resume work.
”工作人员还指出，企业复产复工后，如果员工出现健康状况，需要及时向社区、街道报告，“该隔离的隔离，该送医院检查的送医院检查，因此要求企业每天要对员工测量体温，及时掌握他们的身体状况，身体有异常的赶紧处理，不能耽误。
Staff also pointed out that if workers return to work, they need to report to their communities and streets in good time if they are in good health. "The isolation, the hospital where they are being checked, requires companies to take daily temperature measurements of their employees, keep track of their physical condition and deal with any physical abnormalities without delay.
”界面新闻注意到，近日来，深圳市多个区已推出企业复产复工无需审批的政策。
Interface News notes that in recent days, several districts in Shenzhen have introduced policies that require companies to resume production without approval.
据南方都市报报道，深圳市罗湖区规定，除人员聚集风险较大的旅游休闲、桑拿按摩、影视、电玩、酒吧、网吧等之外的一般企业，达到复工标准并提交《企业复产复工备案表》《复产复工企业疫情防控承诺书》，即可先行复工复产，无需等待审核或批准。
According to the Southern Metropolis Daily, the Luohu District of Shenzhen City will resume work without waiting for examination or approval, unless the normal enterprises, such as tourism and leisure, sauna massage, film and television shows, video games, bars and Internet cafes, meet the re-employment standards and submit the "Return to Work Record".
据南方Plus报道，在深圳南山区，如公司不属于电影院、卡拉OK、酒吧等娱乐业企业，会议、展览业等人员相对集聚、工作环境相对密闭的企业，即可先行复工。
In the Nanshan area of Shenzhen, companies that do not belong to such entertainment enterprises as cinemas, karaoke bars and other entertainment companies can resume work first if their meeting and exhibition industries are relatively crowded and their working environment is relatively closed, according to Southern Plus.
企业先行复工后，政府后续将组织工作人员上门核查，如发现公司属于暂缓开工企业类型，或未达到防控要求违规复工复产，将依法查处。
After the enterprise resumes work first, the government will organize the staff to carry out the door-to-door inspection. If the company is found to be in the category of enterprises suspended, or fails to meet the requirements for prevention and control return to work illegally, it will be investigated and punished.
另外，在深圳市以外，多个地区也对复工流程进行了调整，如广东江门市全面取消企业复工复产的审批、报备手续，企业复工复产无需批准，无需签订承诺书；浙江宁波取消复工审批，负面清单外的企业备案、承诺即可立即复工；江西则全省取消因疫情防控对各类企业、建设项目复工复产的批准手续，复工复产改为报备制。
In addition, outside Shenzhen, a number of areas have also made adjustments to the re-entry process, such as the cancellation of the approval and registration formalities for the resumption of work in Jiangmen, approval of the resumption of work is not required and no undertaking is required.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
深圳将全面取消企业复工复产审批，先复工再核查。
Shenzhen will completely cancel the re-operation of enterprises to approve the resumption of work, work before verification.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "深圳将全面取消企业复工复产审批，先复工再核查";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Shenzhen will cancel all reinstatements and reinstate & quot; & quot;.
var msg_desc = "对于达到复产复工标准的企业，现在即可在报备后先行复产复工，无须等待审核或批准。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; for businesses that met RRR standards, it is now possible to resume production after filing without waiting for review or approval.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
