1人隐瞒致55人隔离，55名密切接触者咋找出来的。
One person concealed 55 people isolated, and 55 close contacts were traced.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
The following article comes from 新闻晨报。
The following article comes from the morning newspaper.
Author 孙立梅。
Author Sun Limei.
新闻晨报。
Morning News.
一网打尽新闻晨报当日重要新闻详细报道、晨报读者活动。
Finish the newsmagazine that day important news detailed report, morning newspaper reader activity.
孙立梅/周到上海客户端2月13日，上海市公安局金山分局以涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪，对故意隐瞒真实行程的新冠肺炎患者李某（男，60岁，现住上海市金山区，已治愈出院）采取刑事强制措施。
Li Mou (male, 60 years old, now residing in Jinshan District, Shanghai), who deliberately concealed his true itinerary, was subjected to criminal coercive measures by the Jinshan Branch of the Shanghai Public Security Bureau on February 13 for allegedly obstructing the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases.
这是此次疫情以来，上海第一起以涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪采取刑事强制措施的案件。
This is the first time since the outbreak, Shanghai suspected of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases to take criminal enforcement measures.
上海市公安局在通报中指出，李某在就诊过程中始终隐瞒从重点地区返沪的事实，还多次出入公共场所，导致55名密切接触者隔离观察，造成严重后果。
In the notice, the Shanghai Public Security Bureau said Li had kept secret the fact that he had returned to Shanghai from key areas and had made numerous visits to public places, leading to the isolation of 55 close contacts, with serious consequences.
在对故意隐瞒者表示极大愤慨的同时，人们也非常好奇：这55名密切接触者，到底是怎么被圈定出来的呢？金山区疾控中心传染病防制科科长宋灿磊回答了这个问题。
While expressing outrage at the deliberate concealment, people are curious: how were the 55 close contacts identified? Song Chan-lei, chief of the Infectious Disease Control Section at the CDC in Jinshan, answered the question.
宋灿磊接受晨报专访，摄影 杨眉包括宋灿磊在内，上海一大批流调（流行病学调查）人员，正奋战在疫情防控的前沿阵地上。
Song Chan-lei interviewed by the morning paper, photography Yang Mei including Song Chan-lei, a large number of Shanghai (epidemiological investigation) personnel, are fighting in the front line of epidemic prevention and control.
从接到医院上报疑似病例开始，流调员们要迅速摸清其感染来源、活动轨迹、接触人群，并将密切接触者向其所在街道、社区进行通报，在第一时间采取隔离措施。
From the moment a suspected case is reported to the hospital, the staff quickly identify the source of the infection, the route of movement, the contact with the population, and will inform their street and community of the person in close contact and take immediate isolation measures.
正是因为他们争分夺秒而又细致入微的工作，才使得上海市民可以在每日疫情通报中看到“确诊病例涉及区域和场所”的情况，以及“对查明的密切接触者已全部隔离医学观察，对已确诊病例的小区都已告知当地”的表述，从而对自己所居住的街区，所生活的城市，产生足够的安全感。
It is their time-consuming and meticulous work that enables the citizens of Shanghai to see "the areas and places involved in the confirmed cases" in the daily outbreak reports, and to express "complete isolation of the identified close contacts and local information on the small areas of confirmed cases," thus creating a sufficient sense of security for the neighbourhoods and cities in which they live.
也正因为如此，有网友给流调员们取了一个酷酷的别称：猎毒者。
Because of this, some netizens give stream dispatchers a cool nickname: poacher.
冒雨出征流调标准有二：“最短时间”、“无一遗漏”自1月20日上海出现首例确诊患者之日起，宋灿磊所在的金山区疾控中心，就开启了全天候的疫情防控模式。
Since January 20, the date of the first confirmed case in Shanghai, the CDC in Song Chan-lei's Jinshan District has launched an all-weather epidemic prevention and control model.
疾控中心应急值班室里，24小时有流调人员在岗值班。
CDC emergency duty room, 24-hour shift personnel on duty.
每接到一个疑似病例上报，流调员们都要迅速出动，向医院接诊医生了解病人情况，并按照工作流程，通过电话或面对面向隔离病房内的病人了解其个人基本情况、发病就诊情况、发病前后活动轨迹及可疑病例接触情况，判定密切接触人群，最终形成调查分析报告。
When a suspected case is reported, the dispatchers immediately call the doctor at the hospital to find out the patient's condition and find out the patient's personal basic condition, the medical condition, the track of the activities before and after the illness and the contact with the suspicious case according to the working procedure.
这是一场没有硝烟的战争。
This is a war without smoke.
为了全面查找传染源，切断传播途径，流调员们每一次接报都如临大敌，严阵以待。
In order to find the source of infection, cut off the transmission route, every time the dispatchers receive a report, ready.
“一个病例从上报疑似，到实验室出第一次检测结果，一般在5-6个小时左右，留给我们的时间真的不多。
"When a case is reported as suspicious and the first test results come out of the laboratory, it usually takes about five to six hours, leaving us really little time.
我们最怕的，就是漏掉任何一个密切接触者。
What we fear most is the omission of any close contact.
”流调出发宋灿磊说，无论上报病例的情况怎样复杂，“最短时间”和“无一遗漏”，是流调工作绝对不能打折扣的两大标准。
Regardless of the complexity of reported cases, "minimum time" and "no drop" are two criteria that can never be discounted, Mr. Song said.
因为只有在最短时间内追踪和提醒到每一位密切接触者，才能最大限度地保护一个乃至一大群人。
For it is only by tracking and alerting everyone in close contact in the shortest possible time that one or even a large number of people can be best protected.
每个疑似病例都要做两次检测，两次结果均为阴性，疑似病例就可予以排除，之前调查到的密切接触者们也会被立刻通知到。
Each suspected case is tested twice, and both results are negative. Suspected cases are ruled out and close contacts previously investigated are immediately notified.
这也等于说，宋灿磊们针对这一疑似病例的所有工作，其实是“白做”了。
This is tantamount to saying that all Sang Lei's work on this suspected case is in fact "done in vain."
金山区疾控中心实验室而这样的“白做”，基本每天在发生。
The CDC laboratory in Jinshan District and such a "white do," basically occurs every day.
金山区上报的首例疑似病例，是在1月25日，大年初一当晚。
The first suspected case was reported in Jinshan District on January 25, the eve of the Lunar New Year.
本区一家医院的发热门诊接诊两例从重点地区来沪探亲的夫妻，两人都有发热伴肺炎症状。
The fever clinic of a hospital in this area received two cases of couples visiting Shanghai from key areas, both of whom had fever and pneumonia.
宋灿磊和同事们在15分钟内出发前往医院，因为这对夫妻发病前后活动轨迹和人员接触情况很明确，调查相对比较顺利，但当宋灿磊整理完调查报告，也已经是大年初二凌晨了。
Song and her colleagues set out for the hospital within 15 minutes because the couple's trajectory and personal contact before and after the onset of illness were clear, and the investigation was relatively smooth.
几个小时之后，第一次实验室检测结果出来，阴性。
A few hours later, the first lab test came out negative.
第二次检测，仍为阴性，予以最终排除。
The second test, still negative, was finally ruled out.
流调工作中从1月25日开始，截至2月19日晚，金山区疾控中心总共收到58例医院上报的疑似案例，最终有3例确诊。
As of the night of February 19, the CDC in Jinshan District had received 58 cases of suspected cases reported by hospitals, and three cases were confirmed.
宋灿磊告诉晨报记者，他和同事们的每一次行动，都做好了打一场硬仗的准备。
Song told the morning paper that he and his colleagues every action, are ready to fight a hard battle.
“我们的工作性质非常特别。
"Our work is very special.
我们接到每个上报病例，都会全力以赴，严阵以待，但与此同时，从内心来说，我们也宁可每次到最后发现都是白忙，都是虚惊一场。
We get every reported case, we go all out to get ready, but at the same time, from the bottom of our heart, we would rather find out every time we end up in vain, a false alarm.
当然，这对我们来说也是一种练兵，我们的工作能力、工作价值，都在这个过程中得到了展示。
Of course, this is also a kind of military training for us, our ability to work, the value of work, have been demonstrated in the process.
”面对最复杂案例，进入隔离病房调查现已被采取刑事强制措施的李某，是金山区3例确诊中的第二例，也是宋灿磊和同事们经手最为复杂的一例。
In the face of the most complex cases, Li, who entered the isolation ward to investigate the criminal coercive measures taken, is the second of three cases diagnosed in Jinshan and the most complicated case handled by Mr. Song and his colleagues.
2月2日上午11:50，疾控中心的应急电话响起：某医院上报疑似病例李某，发热伴咳嗽、乏力及肺炎，有多日重点地区旅行史，且曾在该院多个科室就诊。
February 2 11: 50 a.m., the CDC emergency phone rang: a hospital reported a suspected case of Lee, fever with cough, weakness and pneumonia, a number of days of key regional travel history, and the hospital has a number of departments.
作为流调老兵的宋灿磊，敏感地意识到这可能不是一个普通病例，于是决定组建经验丰富的临时小组。
As a veteran Song Chan-lei, sensitively aware that this might not be an ordinary case, decided to form an experienced temporary team.
12:10，疾控中心出动了总共6人的流调员队伍，其中包括市疾控中心派驻金山的两位专家。
At 12: 10, the CDC deployed a total of six mobile teams, including two experts from the CDC in Jinshan.
而之前的疑似病例调查，一般都是两个人一组。
Previous investigations of suspected cases have generally been conducted in groups of two.
物资核查在医院了解到李某多日的就诊记录后，宋灿磊发现事态的严重性。
Material verification in the hospital known Li days of medical records, Song Chan-lei found the seriousness of the situation.
李某1月24日从江西南昌来到上海，住在松江某宾馆，当晚出现发冷症状，但认为“可能是自己被子盖少了”。
Li arrived in Shanghai on January 24 from Nanchang, Jiangxi. He stayed at a hotel in Songjiang. He had chills that night, but thought that he might have covered himself with fewer quilts.
第二天，李某从松江打车回到金山家中，当天乘坐过出租车，去过一家便利店。
The next day, Li took a taxi from Songjiang back to Jinshan home, that day took a taxi, to a convenience store.
从1月26日起，李某先后去过医院呼吸内科、急诊科、中医内科、感染科等科室，几乎每天都在医院出没，但在医生询问流行病学史时，他只告诉医生自己是从江西南昌过来的。
Since January 26, Li has been to the hospital respiratory department, emergency department, Chinese medicine department, infection department and other departments, almost every day in the hospital, but when the doctor inquired about the history of epidemiology, he told the doctor that he had come from Nanchang, Jiangxi Province.
李某就诊次数不寻常的增加，也引起医生的怀疑。
The unusual increase in the number of visits by Li also aroused the suspicion of doctors.
在反复盘问之下，李某终于透露自己就在南昌之前，有过武汉、黄冈等地三四天的旅行史，于2月2日被送往发热门诊。
Under repeated cross-examination, Li finally revealed himself in Nanchang, Wuhan, Huanggang and other places for three or four days of travel history, February 2 was sent to the fever clinic.
从1月24日发病，到2月2日进入发热门诊，李某连续多日与医护人员、其他病人、出租司机、宾馆服务员、超市员工等打过交道，而当时还不确定是否有更多可能的密切接触者。
From January 24 to February 2 into the fever clinic, Li has had contact with medical personnel, other patients, taxi drivers, hotel attendants, supermarket staff, and so on for many days, while it was uncertain whether there were more possible close contacts.
其时间跨度之长、接触人员之多、情况之复杂，令人瞠目。
The time span, the number of people contacted and the complexity of the situation are staggering.
信息核实在李某之前，宋灿磊和同事们根据工作规范，主要是通过医院协助，与疑似病例通过电话了解情况。
Information verification Before Li, Song and colleagues according to the work norms, mainly through hospital assistance, and suspected cases through the telephone.
“但李某的情况非常特殊。
"But Li's situation is very special.
第一他60岁了，记忆力不太好，而且一个人居住，没有家属可以帮助回想；第二他的活动轨迹复杂，而我们要求掌握每个时间点的活动轨迹，当中不能留白；然后我们也了解到，之前社区向他了解情况的时候，他可能身体状态不太好，不太愿意配合。
First, he is 60 years old, his memory is not good, and he lives alone and has no family to help him recall. Secondly, he has a complex track and we need to keep track of every point in time.
在这种情况下，如果采取电话调查，效果可能是非常非常差的。
In this case, the results can be very, very bad if you do a phone survey.
所以我们最终决定，我和一位同事穿着二级防护服进入隔离病房，开展面对面调查。
So we finally decided that a colleague and I, wearing secondary protective clothing, would enter the isolation ward and conduct a face-to-face investigation.
”数十小时医院监控录像，不放过任何蛛丝马迹作为非临床医务人员，进入隔离病房，与高度疑似病例面对面，当时是什么感觉？“这肯定有心理压力的，尤其是刚进去的时候，确实会紧张一点。
What was it like when dozens of hours of hospital surveillance videos, showing no sign of passing through the isolation ward as non-clinical staff, came face-to-face with a highly suspected caseIt must have been stressful, especially when you first entered.
但随着面对面展开交流，压力是慢慢、慢慢释放的过程。
But with face-to-face communication, stress is a slow, slow release process.
因为你越深入调查，你就觉得这个病例有意思，在一定程度上感觉这是一种工作的成就。
Because the more in-depth you look, the more interesting the case is, and to some extent it feels like a work achievement.
我这么说是不是很怪？（笑）可能这就是一种专业的本能吧。
Isn't it weird for me to say that? (Laughter) Maybe it's a professional instinct.
到最后，情绪就完全松懈下来了。
In the end, the mood was completely relaxed.
”从2月2日下午1点半进入隔离病房开始，宋灿磊和同事在隔离病房待了将近两个小时，通过录音笔，记下了李某从发病之日起详细的活动轨迹和对应时间。
Since entering the isolation ward at 1: 30 p.m. Feb. 2, Song and colleagues have spent nearly two hours in the isolation ward, recording Li's detailed tracks and corresponding time from the onset of illness, using a recording pen.
宋灿磊说，整个调查过程根本顾不上什么感觉，但调查结束脱掉防护服的时候，他和同事都发现衣服已经湿透了。
Mr. Song said the investigation didn't feel anything at all, but by the time the investigation ended and he and his colleagues found their clothes soaked.
从医院出来，已经是2月2日下午3点半了。
It was 3: 30 p.m. on Feb. 2, coming out of the hospital.
但，这场硬仗才只是刚刚开始。
But the battle is only just beginning.
宋灿磊，摄影 杨眉宋灿磊接到区疫情防控指挥部的明确指令：密接者名单，必须在检测结果之前出来！而这份名单的分量和可能引发的后果，不言自明。
Song Chan-lei, photography eyebrow Song Chan-lei received a clear command from the district command: the list of informants must be available before the test results! The weight of the list and its possible consequences are self-evident.
宋灿磊和同事们梳理了李某在过去十天的活动轨迹，做到每个时间点都有与之相对应的明确位置。
Song Chan-lei and his colleagues combed Li's trajectory over the past 10 days to make sure that each time point has a clear position corresponding to it.
院内部分，由医院配合疾控中心调取监控录像，一一排查；其他公共场所，则交由公安部门协助排查。
Part of the hospital, by the CDC in cooperation with the monitoring and video surveillance, one by one screening; other public places, the public security departments to assist in screening.
根据疾控中心的预测，发生在医院内的密切接触者将占绝大多数——后来的数据也证实了这一预测。
According to the CDC, close contacts in hospitals will make up the vast majority - a prediction later confirmed by data.
最终被划定的55名密切接触者当中，发生在院内的就有47名。
Of the 55 close contacts that were eventually designated, 47 occurred in the compound.
疾控中心调取了李某就医每天的监控录像，加起来总共数十个小时。
CDC called Lee every day to check-up video, add up to a total of dozens of hours.
只要李某的身影在视频中出现，宋灿磊和同事们就点着鼠标一路追踪，对于在其周围约2米左右出现的人，再放大细查：李某和对方分别有没有佩戴口罩，医护人员是否做了足够的防护措施……医院监控筛查光是看监控录像，就用掉了4个多小时的时间。
As long as Li's shadow in the video, Song Chan-lei and colleagues on the point of tracking, about 2 meters around the people, magnify and check whether the other side or not wearing masks, health care personnel have done enough protective measures... Hospital surveillance screening just watch surveillance video, it took more than four hours.
“我们把每个相关的时间点都做了记录，特别是注意一些特殊举动。
"We made a record of every relevant point in time, with special attention to specific actions.
比如李某什么时间摘了口罩，在他摘口罩的过程中身边有几个人经过，这些人什么时间也摘了口罩，什么时间又戴上了。
For example, when Li Mou took off his mask, in the process of taking off a few people around him, when these people also took off the mask, when to wear it.
”而在看过录像之后，宋灿磊的同事又到每个相关科室现场进行了复盘，确定通过视频估算的位置、距离等与密切接触者相关的数据，都与实际情况相符。
After watching the video, Mr. Song's colleagues returned to each of the relevant sections to make sure the location, distance and other data related to close contacts matched the actual situation.
根据输液室位置图，再与监控一一对脸医院最大的排查难点，出现在急诊科输液室。
According to the location map of the infusion room, and monitoring a face-to-face hospital the biggest screening difficulties, appeared in the emergency department infusion room.
因为李某在其他科室停留的时间还比较短，接触人群还比较有限，但他曾经在两天内先后有两次输液，在输液室停留的时间超过两个小时，而这家医院的输液室有79个座位，本来就是人群密集的场所。
Li had two transfusions in two days and spent more than two hours in the infusion room, where the 79-seat infusion room was already a crowded place.
宋灿磊说，比较庆幸的是，他们详细问过医院，确认当时输液室的窗户是开着保持通风的，“按照国家和上海的要求，如果是密闭场所，那当时在场的所有病号都需要被隔离，那样的话人数就更多了。
Thankfully, Mr. Song said, 'they asked the hospital in detail, confirming that the windows of the infusion room were open and ventilated at the time.' In accordance with state and Shanghai requirements, all the patients on site would have to be quarantined, 'even more so.
”宋灿磊和同事们现场拍下并测量了输液室的位置图，最终以李某所在位置为中心，按照左右四个位置（约2米）、前后2排（约1.5米）以内，初步圈定密切接触者范围。
Mr. Song and his colleagues photographed and measured the location of the infusion room on site, and finally initially delineated close contacts within four left and right positions (about 2m) and two rows (about 1.5 m) around Li's location.
现场距离较近且没有佩戴口罩的，也被纳入进来。
Those close to the scene and not wearing masks were also included.
“除了看位置，我们还要确定输液室人来人往的情况。
"In addition to looking at the location, we need to make sure the infusion room has people coming and going.
比如虽然不在李某附近坐，但有的病人可能在起身上厕所的时候经过李某身边，或者有短暂站在其身边的情况，这也可能是密接接触者。
For example, although not sitting in the vicinity of Li, but some patients may be in the toilet on the body when passing by, or a brief standing beside its circumstances, this may also be a close contact.
对于这种情况，我们还要追踪这些病人具体回到了哪个座位，然后记下座位号。
In this case, we also tracked the patient back to which seat, and then wrote down the seat number.
”在初步圈定院内密切接触者相关信息之后，医院迅速反馈了这些人的联系方式。
After the initial identification of those in close contact with the hospital, the hospital quickly gave back their contact details.
疾控中心一一电话联系进行复查，比如询问对方当时佩戴的口罩类型，是否出现身体不适等。
CDC calls one by one to make a review, such as asking each other at the time wearing a mask type, whether there is physical discomfort.
“接到我们的询问电话，大多数人的第一反应都是很紧张的，这完全可以理解。
"Most of the people who answered our calls were understandably nervous about their first reaction.
所以在询问的同时，我们也注意做好安抚工作，但也告知对方先行做好居家隔离，等待进一步通知。
So when asked, we also pay attention to placate work, but also tell each other to stay in isolation, waiting for further notice.
”流调车辆随时待命2月2日晚11点，疾控中心已经完成了一份较为详细的流调报告。
The CDC has completed a more detailed report on the transfer at 11: 00 pm on Feb. 2.
在疾控中心紧锣密鼓工作的同时，公安部门也根据疾控中心提供的活动路线图迅速出手，最终划定了另外8名密切接触者，疾控中心对之进行了又一轮电话复查。
The CDC's intensive work coincided with the rapid release of eight other close contacts based on a road map of activities provided by the CDC, which underwent another round of telephone reviews.
在李某的检验结果出来之前，金山区疫情防控指挥部手上，已经拿到了这55名密切接触者的名单。
Li's results before the results of the Jinshan epidemic prevention and control command, the hands of the 55 close contacts have been the list.
这也是金山区3例确诊病例当中，密切接触者最多的一例。
It is also the most close contact among the 3 confirmed cases in Jinshan area.
值得庆幸的是，这55名密切接触者，目前都已经解除集中隔离，平安回到家中。
Thankfully, all 55 of the close contacts have now been released from concentration and returned to their homes unharmed.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1人隐瞒致55人隔离，55名密切接触者咋找出来的。
One person concealed 55 people isolated, and 55 close contacts were traced.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "1人隐瞒致55人隔离，55名密切接触者咋找出来的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; one person concealed & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉武昌区转运患者组织不力，纪委严肃问责',。
Wuhan Wuchang District Transit patients poorly organized, and its disciplinary committee seriously held accountable and accountable.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '湖北一天新增万例，到底怎么算的？',。
A: How did it come by with ten thousand new cases a day in Hubei?
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
