疫情笼罩的武汉，非新冠重病患者求医之困。
The epidemic shrouded Wuhan, non-new coronary patients seek medical attention.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
新冠疫情爆发以来，武汉市已征用50家医院作为定点医院，很多非新冠病人要么在治疗中被清理出院，要么在疫情期间发病，面临就医困难。
Since the outbreak of the New Guang epidemic, the city of Wuhan has requisitioned 50 hospitals as designated hospitals, and many non-crown patients have either been cleared for treatment and discharged from hospitals or faced difficulties in seeking medical treatment during the outbreak.
8个月大的陈锦媛，身患罕见先天性心脏病，急需手术，父母驾车千里“突围”，送她到北京，但她还得在隔离点等待14天才能进医院。
Eight-month-old Chen Jinyuan, who suffered from a rare congenital heart condition and needed surgery, had to wait 14 days in quarantine before her parents drove her to Beijing.
20岁的白血病患者万茹意，化疗中病情出现反复，遭遇新冠疫情，无法转去更好的医院，只好原地等待奇迹。
Twenty-year-old patients with leukemia Wanrui, chemotherapy repeated illness, encountered a new crown epidemic, can not be transferred to a better hospital, had to wait for a miracle.
62岁的王建忠，肺结核加肾衰竭，几经周折，在有关部门协调下，才得以入院治疗。
62-year-old Wang Jianzhong, tuberculosis and kidney failure, after many twists and turns, in the relevant departments under the coordination of the hospital treatment.
严峻的新冠疫情之下，让患者和家属备受困扰的，还不止是医疗资源紧张。
It is not just the lack of medical resources that is plaguing patients and families in the wake of a severe new crown epidemic.
在北京西城区一家连锁酒店，陈恒阳和8个月大的女儿已经隔离了整整10天。
Chen Hengyang and his 8-month-old daughter have been isolated for 10 days at a hotel chain in the western city of Beijing.
10天前，为了让女儿做上救命的心脏手术，这个35岁的湖北汉子一路自驾16个小时来到北京。
The 35-year-old Hubei man drove 16 hours to Beijing to have his daughter undergo life-saving heart surgery.
但他们并不能立刻进入早已联系好的医院，根据政策，凡是从湖北入京的人员，必须集中隔离14天，这是谁也无法逾越的底线。
But they did not have immediate access to the already well-connected hospitals. As a matter of policy, all those entering Beijing from Hubei Province had to be quarantined for 14 days, which was the bottom line that no one could cross.
“说实话，小孩病得这么重，我们自己也有心理准备，这已经是我们能想到的最好的办法了。
"To tell the truth, we were mentally prepared for the fact that the child was so ill that it was the best thing we could think of.
”陈恒阳告诉八点健闻，女儿原本应该在武汉协和医院治疗，但受到这次新冠疫情的影响，手术被无限期延后。
Chen told Eight Jiangnan that his daughter should have been treated at Wuhan Xiehe Hospital, but the operation was postponed indefinitely because of the new crown outbreak.
自从1月份新冠疫情爆发以来，为了应对持续增加的确诊病例，武汉市已经分5批总共征用了50家医院作为市级新冠肺炎定点医院。
Since the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia in January, Wuhan has expropriated a total of 50 hospitals in five batches in response to the increasing number of confirmed cases.
截至2月19日，其中46家完成改造投入使用，开放床位19989张。
As of 19 February, 46 of them had been rehabilitated and put into operation, opening 19,989 beds.
为配合改造，原先在这些医院就医的非新冠病人被清理出院。
As part of the rehabilitation, non-crown patients previously treated in these hospitals were discharged.
病情较重的患者可以留院隔离，但无法进行下一步治疗。
Patients with more serious illnesses may be kept in isolation but are unable to proceed to further treatment.
有刚性需求的病人，由原医院帮忙联系接续机构，但不确保百分之百有床位。
For patients with rigid needs, follow-up institutions are contacted with the help of the original hospital, but 100 per cent beds are not ensured.
而更多“病情暂时可控”的病人，则只能回到家中，活在“随时可能复发”的阴影里。
And more "temporarily controllable" patients, can only go home, live in the "at any time may relapse" shadow.
2月18日，武汉市卫健委公布了《全市非新冠肺炎特殊患者医疗救治医院名单》，按照6个类型划定了对应的救治医院，分别是：急性心脑血管、外伤等急危重症，血液透析，孕产妇及儿童，恶性肿瘤（含恶性血液病）及慢性疾病，五官科疾病和烧伤。
On February 18, the Wuhan Health Commission announced the list of hospitals for special treatment of patients with non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia. The corresponding hospitals are classified according to six types: acute cardio-cerebrovascular, traumatic, acute, hemodialysis, maternal and child, malignant blood diseases (including malignant blood diseases) and chronic diseases, pentaphysical diseases and burns.
除了五官科疾病和烧伤，其余4类对应的医院都有10家以上。
There are more than 10 hospitals in each of the remaining four categories, with the exception of diseases and burns.
一位参与武汉透析病人服务的志愿者告诉八点健闻，随着医院透析机位的增加，透析病人这块的情况已经基本好转，绝大多数患者的常规需求都可以得到满足。
A volunteer involved in dialysis patient services in Wuhan told Eight Jiangnan that with the increase of dialysis machine space in hospitals, the situation of dialysis patients has basically improved, the majority of patients can meet the regular needs.
“只有个别疑似感染的病友，需要去新冠定点医院做隔离透析，但基本的防护措施都有，问题不大。
"Only a few patients with suspected infection need to be isolated at the Xinguan designated hospital for dialysis, but basic protective measures are available and the problem is not serious.
”遗憾的是，这份能够解决大部分患者需求的文件，却对陈恒阳没有半点帮助。
Unfortunately, the document, which addresses the needs of most patients, has done little to help Mr Chen.
他的女儿需要尽快手术才能救命，但就武汉目前的医疗资源来说，为非新冠患者动一场手术几乎是不可能的。
His daughter needs surgery as soon as possible to save her life, but with Wuhan's current medical resources, it is almost impossible to operate on a non-crown patient.
目前在武汉，和陈恒阳遭遇同样困境的患者家庭还不在少数。
At present in Wuhan, and Chen Hengyang encountered the same plight of the patient's family.
从武汉到北京做手术的罕见病女婴2月17日下午，陈恒阳在微博上晒出两张小女儿的照片，并写道：“隔离了一个星期，宝宝加油”。
Chen Hang-yang 's photo of two young girls on Weibo February 17 afternoon shows her baby bundled up after a week of isolation, she wrote.
照片拍摄的地点是位于北京西城区马连道附近的一家连锁酒店，距离全球最大的小儿心脏中心——北京阜外医院小儿外科中心仅有7公里。
Pictured here is a chain of hotels near Mallon Road in the western city of Beijing, just 7 kilometers from the Peking Fuoutside Hospital Pediatric Surgery Centre, the world's largest pediatric heart center.
如果不出意外，7天后，他的女儿将在那里接受手术。
If nothing happens, his daughter will undergo surgery there in seven days.
“我们现在最担心的就是她能不能熬到那个时候，目前看来情况还算好。
"What we're worrying about most now is whether she will be able to stay up until then, and things look good so far.
”△陈恒阳微博截图2月10日，为了给女儿治病，陈恒阳开车带着妻子女儿从武汉出发，途径河南、河北，全程1200公里，到达北京已经是第二天下午。
Chen Heng-yang pictured here on Feb. 10, 2007. Chen Hengyang drove his wife and daughter from Wuhan to Henan and Hebei Province for treatment of her daughter.
当天，一家三口就被安排住进了西城区的定点隔离酒店，为了保证女儿在14天隔离期内的安全，陈恒阳和妻子寸步不离地照看。
The family was admitted to a designated seclusion hotel in the western city, where Chen and his wife kept an eye out for their daughter during the 14-day isolation period.
“最怕的就是缺氧，但没办法，这是她最后的机会，如果真的不行了，我们也有心理准备。
"The biggest fear is lack of oxygen, but there is no way, this is her last chance, if really do not work, we have psychological preparation.
”陈恒阳的女儿叫陈锦媛，出生于2019年6月。
Chen Hengyang's daughter, Chen Jinyuan, was born in June 2019.
12月29日，小锦媛因为爆发性心肌炎被送到湖北省妇幼医院抢救，随后转到武汉协和医院心外科继续治疗。
On December 29, Xiao Jinyuan was taken to Hubei Maternal and Child Hospital for emergency myocarditis, then transferred to Wuhan Concord Hospital for further treatment.
1月19日，因为新冠疫情的影响，协和医院建议陈恒阳办理出院手续，让女儿在家静养。
On January 19, because of the impact of the new crown, Concorde Hospital advised Chen Hengyang to go through the discharge formalities and let her daughter stay at home.
“我们自己也怕被感染，就搬出来了。
"We moved out of fear of getting infected ourselves.
”此后，小锦媛的病情历经几次反复。
Since then, Xiaojinyuan's illness has been repeated several times.
2月初，冒着被感染的风险，陈恒阳带女儿到协和医院做了一次CT血管成像， 诊断结果为“左冠状动脉异常起源于肺动脉”，这是一种极为罕见的先天性疾病，发病率仅为1/300000，死亡率极高。
At the beginning of February, at risk of infection, Chen took his daughter to Concorde Hospital for a CT angiography. The diagnosis was "left coronary anomaly of pulmonary origin," a rare congenital disease with an extremely high mortality rate of 1 / 300,000.
“当时协和医院的医生告诉我，出于人道主义，他们可以把我们收进医院做保守治疗，但手术肯定是动不了，要等疫情好转以后。
"The doctors at Concorde Hospital told me they could take us to a hospital for conservative treatment on humanitarian grounds, but the operation would not be able to move until the situation improved.
”陈恒阳上网查了资料，发现这种病在1岁前的死亡率超过90%，女儿8个月了，“你说这怎么等得起？”柳暗花明，陈恒阳从病友群里得知，北京阜外医院在这方面很有经验，手术成功率很高，便决定送女儿去北京。
Chen Hengyang checked the data and found that the death rate of the disease before the age of one year exceeded 90 percent, and that her daughter had been eight months old.
他联系上阜外医院，对方的回复是，只要能到得了北京，他们就收，但必须要隔离够14天。
He contacted the hospital in Fuwai and was told they would keep it as long as they could get to Beijing, but would have to be quarantined for 14 days.
“家里商量了一下，觉得还是要拼这一把。
"After some discussion at home, I felt I had to spell it.
不然再等两个月，很可能连拼的机会都没了。
Or wait another two months, the odds are that you won't even have a chance to fight.
”那时候，武汉已经交通封城10多天。
Wuhan had already been closed for more than 10 days.
陈恒阳找到社区说明了情况，并且带去了女儿的病历证明，社区反映给了街道，街道再反映到了区里，最后区防疫指挥部为他开出了特殊通行证。
Chen Hengyang found the community to explain the situation, and took the daughter's medical certificate, the community reflected to the street, the street to reflect in the district, the final district epidemic prevention command issued him a special pass.
唯一的要求是，自己开车。
The only requirement is to drive your own car.
让陈恒阳庆幸的是，从提交材料到拿到通行证明，只用了两天时间。
Fortunately for Chen, it took only two days from the submission of the materials to the issuance of the access certificate.
2月10日晚上10点多，带女儿在协和医院打完强心针后，陈恒阳和妻子开车出发了。
February 10 more than 10 p.m., with her daughter in the Concorde Hospital after a strong heart needle, Chen Hengyang and his wife drove off.
选择这个时间是因为他怕白天卡口太多，万一被遣返，前功尽弃。
He chose this time because he was afraid of getting stuck during the day, and if he were to be repatriated, his work would be lost.
所幸一路上还算顺利，陈恒阳在微博上写道：“开了16个小时，基本没有停过，每个服务区都有检查人员，不敢进去，一路上防疫部门检查站，轮流盘问，各种解释，自己都能哭起来。
Fortunately, the journey went smoothly, and Chen Heng-yang wrote on Weibo: "It lasted 16 hours, basically did not stop, every service area has inspectors, dare not enter, along the way epidemic prevention checkpoints, rotating cross-examination, various explanations, can cry.
”对于陈恒阳来说，最紧张的一次盘问发生在下北京的高速口，“之前都是看一下证件就放行了，因为小孩就在车里，他们知道我没有说谎。
For Mr Chen, one of the most intense interrogations took place at the lower Beijing expressway: "I had to look at my papers and let them go because the kids were in the car and they knew I wasn't lying.
但在北京那个高速口，一直盘问了我半个小时，问我来北京干嘛，医院联系好了没有，住在哪里，然后他还要再向上面的领导汇报，但最后还是放我们下去了。
But at the Beijing expressway, I was interrogated for half an hour about what I was doing in Beijing, whether the hospital had been contacted and where I lived, and then he had to report back to the leader above, but finally let us go.
”更幸运的是，他们出发第二天，武汉市就宣布在全市范围内所有住宅小区进行封闭管理。
Fortunately, the day after their departure, Wuhan city announced plans to close all residential complexes across the city.
如今，陈恒阳每天都会发微博记录女儿在北京的隔离生活。
Today, Chen Hengyang tweets daily about her daughter's isolated life in Beijing.
时常会有好心人问他，需不需要帮助，建议他开通一个筹款渠道。
Often a kind-hearted person asks him if he needs help and suggests that he open a fund-raising channel.
他回答说，自己这一趟出来，本来争议就挺大的了，很多人觉得他是利用女儿的病逃离武汉，这个时候去筹款会加深误会的。
He replied that his trip out of the original controversy, many people feel that he is using her illness to escape Wuhan, this time to raise funds will deepen the misunderstanding.
在协和等待奇迹的白血病女孩比起已经在北京等待手术的小锦媛，20岁的武汉女孩万茹意就不那么幸运了，她连冒险的机会都没有。
Wuhan girl Wanzuo, 20, wasn't as lucky as Xiao Jinyuan, a 20-year-old girl who waited for surgery in Beijing. She didn't even have a chance to take risks.
因为没有其他医院愿意接收，她只能待在武汉协和医院血液科的病房里，等着奇迹出现。
As no other hospital was willing to accept her, she had to stay in the blood ward of Wuhan Concord Hospital, waiting for a miracle to happen.
万茹意得的是急性淋巴细胞白血病，自从去年5月确诊以来，已经经历了三轮化疗。
What Vandall had was acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which had undergone three rounds of chemotherapy since its diagnosis in May last year.
原本的治疗方案，是通过化疗暂时控制住癌细胞，让身体达到骨髓移植的条件。
The original treatment, through chemotherapy to temporarily control cancer cells, so that the body reached the conditions for bone marrow transplantation.
但去年11月5日，化疗结束后的复查显示，万茹意体内的癌细胞复发，第一期治疗宣告失败。
But on Nov. 5, 2007, after chemotherapy ended, the cancer returned and the first treatment failed.
11月11日，万茹意再次住院接受CART治疗，周期为89天，目的同样是为最后的移植手术创造条件。
On 11 November, he was hospitalized again for CART treatment for 89 days, again with the aim of creating the conditions for a final transplant.
不幸的是两个半月后，病情第二次复发。
Unfortunately, after two and a half months, the condition returned for the second time.
万茹意的母亲吴琼透露，1月29日，女儿开始腿疼，1月31日去医院做了骨穿，原本三天后就能知道结果，但因为新冠疫情，医生要么被抽调去了一线，要么在家调休，整个血液科几乎处于瘫痪状态。
On January 29, the daughter began to feel pain in her leg, and on January 31 she went to the hospital to have a bone graft. The results would have been known in three days, but because of the new crown, doctors were either pulled out or put on rest at home, leaving the entire department almost paralysed.
“2月8日那天，孩子实在疼得受不了，我们就联系了院办，院办给教授打了电话，教授自己想办法看了结果，证实是复发了。
"On Feb. 8, when the pain was really overwhelming, we contacted the hospital, which phoned the professor, who tried to read the results and confirmed that there had been a recurrence.
”主治专家告诉吴琼，基于目前的状况，协和已经无能为力，建议她把女儿转去水平更高的医院，或许还有一线生机。
Experts told Wu that given the current situation, Concorde could do nothing about it and suggested that she move her daughter to a higher-quality hospital, perhaps with a shot in the arm.
吴琼说，这个希望的火光，很快就被掐灭了。
Wu said the flame of hope was quickly snuffed out.
她尝试联系了两家全国最好的血液病医院，一家在河北，一家在北京，对方听说她是武汉的，当即拒绝收治。
She tried to contact two of the country's best blood hospitals, one in Hebei province and one in Beijing, but was told she was from Wuhan and refused treatment immediately.
更让吴琼懊悔的是，今年1月中旬，CART治疗还在进行中时，她曾联系过这两家医院，希望后期可以去做骨髓移植，当时两家医院都愿意接收。
To Wu's regret, she contacted CART in mid-January while the treatment was still in progress, hoping for a bone-marrow transplant later in the year, when both hospitals were willing to accept it.
河北那家医院甚至还给她们做了排仓。
The hospital in Hebei even offered them a warehouse.
“那时候还没有疫情的说法，现在想想是有点后悔的，如果当时冒冒险直接转过去，或许情况就完全不一样了。
"There was no such thing as an epidemic, and now it's a bit of a regret to think about it. If I had taken the risk and turned it around, maybe it would have been completely different.
”吴琼说，长达大半年的治疗，女儿已经被折磨得身心俱疲。
"Wu said her daughter had been devastated after nearly six months of treatment.
自从去年5月份化疗以来，呕吐、溃疡、腹泻这些副作用就没有断过，头发和眉毛全都掉光了，有一次照镜子还照哭了，说自己怎么丑得像个外星人。
Since chemotherapy last May, the side effects of vomiting, ulcers and diarrhea have not been broken. Hair and eyebrows have all fallen off.
因为化疗伤了脾胃，她每顿只能吃炖得稀烂的萝卜糊，连吃了好几个月。
Because the chemotherapy injured her spleen and stomach, she had to eat radish paste cooked to death for months at a time.
这些都不算什么，最难忍的是疼痛，发作起来，撕心裂肺地叫，脸都会狰狞到变形。
These are nothing, the most difficult is the pain, seizures, tears in the lungs, face will be ferocious to deformation.
“她跟我说过，安乐死算了，太累了，让我们过自己的日子，把她忘了，养只狗遛一遛……你说我们做父母的怎么答应得下来。
"She told me, euthanasia, too tired, let us live their own day, forget her, a dog for a stroll... you said we parents can agree to come down.
”△ 万茹意的午餐（图片来自吴琼微博）为了尽可能挽救女儿，吴琼咬牙决定再上两次化疗，这是她能想到的唯一办法。
Wu Qiong decided to go on two more chemotherapy treatments to save her daughter, which was the only thing she could think of.
“我现在想的就是先把她这个人留住，能留多久留多久。
What I am thinking now is to detain her for as long as I can.
那两家医院都说了，等疫情结束会马上安排我们过去。
Both hospitals said they would arrange for us to pass as soon as the outbreak was over.
”但“疫情结束”的标准是什么，还需要多长时间，她心里也没底。
But what the "end of the epidemic" would be and how long it would take, she said.
艰难求医的肾衰竭老人“为什么这些平时普通医院就能看好的病，现在能要了人的命？”最近几天，王鑫打了不下一百个电话，目的只有一个：让自己身在武汉的父亲王建忠做上透析，保住性命。
Why do these common hospital-like diseases now kill people? Wang Xin has made more than 100 phone calls in recent days for the sole purpose of keeping his father, Wang Jianzhong, in Wuhan, alive after dialysis.
2019年10月，62岁的王建忠被确诊为肺结核，此后一直通过药物治疗，今年2月14日因为药物副作用被查出急性肾衰竭，血肌酐高达1450μmol/L（正常值为50-100μmol/L），这在医学上意味着肾功能严重损伤，排毒功能几乎丧失。
In October 2019, 62-year-old Wang Jianzhong was diagnosed with tuberculosis and has been receiving medication ever since, and acute renal failure was detected on 14 February this year as a result of side effects, with blood creatinine up to 1,450 mg mol / L (normal value 50-100 krmol / L), which medically means severe kidney failure and virtually no detoxification.
当时，王建忠已经出现了呼吸困难，嘴唇发紫，排尿困难，因为无法卧床，连晚上睡觉都得坐着。
At the time, Wang had difficulty breathing, purple lips and difficulty urinating because he could not stay in bed and had to sit up at night.
远嫁湖南的王鑫第一时间联系了娘家所在的社区，希望他们为父亲安排医院。
Wang Xin, who married far away from Hunan, first contacted his mother's community and wanted them to arrange a hospital for his father.
由于王建忠也有典型的肺炎症状，社区按照新冠疑似病例做了上报。
As Wang Jianzhong also has typical pneumonia symptoms, the community according to the new crown suspected case reported.
2月17日一早，由军医接手改造的泰康同济医院打来电话，表示可以收治。
Early on February 17, the military doctor took over the rehabilitation of the Taikang Tongji Hospital called to say can be admitted.
王鑫起初还有些犹豫，因为泰康同济是新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，而父亲实际上并没有感染新冠肺炎，只需要透析治疗。
Wang was hesitant at first because Taikang Tongji was the designated hospital for patients with Newcomer Pneumonia, whereas his father did not actually contract pneumonia, only needed dialysis treatment.
“我就跟他们说，我爸爸不是疑似病例，能不能给我们一个隔离病房。
"I'll tell them my dad's not a suspect. Can we have an isolation ward?
后来那边又来了一个人听电话，语气很严厉，就问我爸爸到底是不是疑似，如果不是，就把我们的名字划掉。
Then there came a person to listen to the phone, the tone is very strict, asked my father is suspected, if not, our names crossed out.
如果是的话，他们上门强制执行。
If so, they enforce it door-to-door.
”工作人员的态度和防疫政策有关。
Staff attitudes have to do with vaccination policies.
两天前，“空降”湖北的省委常委王贺胜在其首次公开亮相的国新办发布会上表示，要确保确诊患者和疑似患者全部得到收治，这也成了短期内湖北疫情防控的第一要务。
Two days ago, Wang He-sheng, Hubei province's standing committee member, said at a press conference at the countrys first public appearance to ensure all patients and suspected patients are admitted.
王鑫说了实话，父亲也因此被取消了入院资格，这或许会成为她这辈子最后悔的决定。
Wang Xin told the truth that her father was disqualified, which may be the most regretful decision in her life.
当天，王建忠的病情突然加重，开始尿血，上厕所时直接跪倒在了马桶前。
That day, Wang Jianzhong's condition suddenly aggravated, began to urinate blood, on the toilet directly fell to his knees in front of the toilet.
老两口叫了社区的车，跑遍了辖区内的三家医院——武汉市同济医院、第五人民医院和汉阳医院，没有一家能够接收。
The old couple called the community car and ran through the three hospitals in the district-Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Fifth People's Hospital and Hanyang Hospital, none of which could receive them.
在同济医院，王建忠60多岁的妻子给医生当场下跪，得到的答复依然是不行。
At Tongji Hospital, Wang Jianzhong's wife in her sixties kneeled to the doctor on the spot and received the same reply.
另一边，王鑫按照社区提供的名单，电话联系了武汉市第一、第二、第九、普仁、普爱等多家医院，也无一例外被拒绝。
On the other side, Wang Xin in accordance with the list provided by the community, the phone call Wuhan City, the first, second, ninth, Puren, universal love and other hospitals were rejected without exception.
理由有两个：第一，王建忠有肺结核的基础疾病，会传染给其它患者；第二，医院的透析机器已经满负荷运转，无力再收治新的病人。
There are two reasons: first, Wang Jianzhong has the basic disease of tuberculosis, which can infect other patients; second, the hospital's dialysis machine is already running at full capacity and is no longer able to treat new patients.
有志愿者向她建议，可以尝试在湖南为父亲找到一家愿意接收的医院，再办理特殊通行证把父亲从武汉接出来。
A volunteer suggested trying to find a hospital in Hunan for her father who would accept him and get a special pass to pick him up from Wuhan.
但这条路没能走通，王鑫联系了湖南的多家医院，对方均表示，必须经过14天的隔离才能收治，这是底线。
But this road did not go through, Wang Xin contacted Hunan's many hospitals, the other side said that must go through 14 days of isolation before treatment, this is the bottom line.
“我们现在就希望指挥部能够协调一下，找家医院给我父亲做透析，即便是在新冠定点医院，即便被感染上了病毒也无所谓，让我们先把人留住！”好在事情终于有了转机。
"We'd like to have the headquarters coordinate now and find a hospital to do dialysis for my father, even at Newcastle Hospital, even if infected with the virus, so let's keep the man!
2月19日晚，王鑫告诉八点健闻，她的父亲在当地有关部门的协调下，已经住进了汉阳医院接受透析。
On the night of February 19, Wang told him that her father had been admitted to Hanyang Hospital for dialysis under the coordination of local authorities.
毛晓琼|撰稿微信号：234379189刘冉|责编微信号：foooorest我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Mao Xiaoqiong & # 124; & # 45; Writing microsignal: 2343 79189 Liu Ran & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; microsignal: We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻毛晓琼。
Hear Mao Xiaoqiong.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情笼罩的武汉，非新冠重病患者求医之困。
The epidemic shrouded Wuhan, non-new coronary patients seek medical attention.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "疫情笼罩的武汉，非新冠重病患者求医之困";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "其他病人都在给疫情让路，但时间久了路可能就没了";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Other patients have given way to the epidemic, but may not have AT & quot; & quot; with time.
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
