确诊病例连续2天零增长，复工潮中的上海怎样打防疫战？。
Confirmed cases of zero growth for 2 days in a row, the resumption of work in Shanghai how to fight epidemic prevention?
吴晔婷谭卓曌。
Nicknamed Tam Chiu.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
2月18日和19日，上海新冠肺炎确诊病例连续2天零增长。
On February 18 and 19, there was zero growth in confirmed cases of pneumonia in Shanghai for two consecutive days.
对于这个人口超过2400万的超大城市，消息令人振奋。
For a city with a population of more than 24 million, the news is heartening.
要帮助基层准确定位重点排查人群，入沪人员全数据的信息收集是重要的第一步。
It is an important first step to help the grass-roots level to locate the population accurately and to collect all the data of Shanghai people.
上海复工的第一天，防控升级，全市小区陆续开始实施封闭式管理。
Shanghai to resume work on the first day, prevention and control upgrade, the whole city began to implement closed management.
湖北之外，明确了14个重点关注地区。
Outside Hubei, 14 key areas of concern were identified.
“上海新型肺炎公共服务平台”正式上线，市民可快速登记健康信息，获得疫情防控相关服务。
The Shanghai New Pneumonia Public Service Platform has been put on line, enabling the public to register health information quickly and obtain services related to disease prevention and control.
但真正做好防控，还是要靠基层和社区。
But really good control, or rely on the grass-roots and community.
在小区封闭式管理的过程中，邻里之间相互的督促、群防群治也起到了很大的作用。
In the process of the closed management of the neighborhood, the supervision of each other and group control also played a great role.
在需要排队的地方，居民们戴上口罩，前后保持一米左右的距离自觉排队，上海的这种排队方式，大概也算是疫情之下的特殊产物了。
Shanghai's queuing, where residents wear masks and line up at a distance of about a meter, is probably a special product of the epidemic.
2月17日下午一点半不到，老吴戴上口罩和排队号码牌出门了。
Feb. 17 at 1: 30 p.m., old Wu put on a mask and queue number plate went out.
这是上海第二批口罩供应，每个家庭可以购买5只口罩。
This is the second batch of masks available in Shanghai. Each family can buy 5 masks.
“就像当年发粮票，凭票买米一样。
"It's like handing out food stamps and buying rice.
”这一天，老吴买到了5个有独立包装的一次性口罩，花了8元，而上一批口罩是散装的，花了2.3元。
That day, Wu bought five disposable masks in separate packs for eight yuan, compared with 2.3 yuan for the last batch, which came in bulk.
药房解释称，每一批口罩的厂家不同。
The pharmacy explained that each batch of masks was manufactured differently.
对于小区居委会的工作，老吴还比较满意，尽管还不尽完美，但也觉得特殊时期，需要大家一起来克服。
For the work of neighborhood committee, Lao Wu is satisfied, although not perfect, but also feel that special period, we need to work together to overcome.
“疫情发生，小区就是最重要的地方啊，要乱也就是从这里开始乱的。
"The outbreak of the epidemic, the community is the most important place, to chaos is also from here to start chaos.
”老吴的担忧也可以说是上海市民的一种共识。
Mr Wu's worry is also a common denominator among Shanghai's citizens.
不过从目前来看，局面正在一点点好转。
But for now, things are getting a little better.
截至2月18日24时，全国首次出现了出院患者高过新增确诊人数的情况。
As of 2400 hours on 18 February, for the first time in the country, there were more patients discharged than newly diagnosed.
另一个好消息是，全国已有上海、贵州、海南等8个省市的新增病例实现零增长。
Another good news is that China has achieved zero growth in new cases in eight provinces, including Shanghai, Guizhou and Hainan.
2月19日，上海确诊人数再次无新增。
On February 19, the number of confirmed cases in Shanghai again did not increase.
对于这个人口超过2400万的超大城市，零增长的消息令人振奋，很多市民都在官方微信号“上海发布”的推文后留言：“昨天和今天上午都是0，太好了。
For a city with a population of more than 24 million, the news of zero growth is heartening, with many citizens saying after the official tweet "Shanghai": "Yesterday and this morning were 0, that's great.
不过还是不能放松警戒。
Still, we can't relax our vigilance.
”△ 制图：吴晔婷那么，上海的复工防疫战是如何打的？扩大重点排查在闵行区吴泾镇，春节后返沪的陶苗苗就不能出门参与买口罩了。
After the Spring Festival, Tao seedlings who returned to Shanghai after the Spring Festival could not go out to buy masks.
目前，两室户的房子里，从安徽阜阳返沪的全家七口人需要一起隔离14天，如果没有症状，才能解除医学隔离。
At present, two-bedroom houses, from Fuyang in Anhui Province, the family of seven people need to be isolated together for 14 days, if no symptoms, can be removed from medical isolation.
陶苗苗的老家在安徽阜阳，2月8日晚上自驾回到了上海，除了陶苗苗一家三口，同行的还有陶苗苗的母亲、妹妹以及丈夫的两个亲戚，总共7人。
Tao Miao, whose home town is in Fuyang, Anhui Province, drove home to Shanghai on February 8, accompanied by the mother of pottery seedlings, his sister and two relatives of her husband, a total of seven people.
这两个亲戚在上海嘉定区租房生活，打算回上海的前一天，接到了房东和所属村委队长的电话，提醒他们嘉定区的道口排查标准升格了，租户会被劝返。
The two relatives are living in Jiading District, Shanghai, the day before planning to return to Shanghai, received a phone call from the landlord and the leader of the village committee reminding them that the Jiading District standards for road clearance had been upgraded and tenants would be advised to return.
考虑到或早或晚回沪，都需要医学隔离14天，两人就准备和陶苗苗一家一起，回到闵行区吴泾镇的家中暂住。
Taking into account the 14-day medical isolation required for their return to Shanghai sooner or later, the two men prepared to return to their home in Min Hang district with the Tao Miao family.
回到上海的第二天一大早，陶苗苗就到了居委会登记返沪信息，然后开始居家隔离。
Returning to Shanghai early in the morning, Tao seedlings to the neighborhood registration back to Shanghai information, and then began to house isolation.
这一天，陶苗苗的老家安徽阜阳新增确诊病例7例，累计确诊病例125例。
This day, Tao Miao's hometown Anhui Fuyang newly diagnosed 7 cases, cumulative confirmed cases 125.
安徽成了湖北之外，仅次于广东、河南、浙江的重灾区。
Anhui has become the disaster area outside Hubei, which is next to Guangdong, Henan and Zhejiang.
而阜阳的确诊数在安徽省排第三位，前两位分别是合肥和蚌埠。
The number of confirmed Fuyang in Anhui Province ranked third, the first two are Hefei and Bengbu.
2月10日，上海复工的第一天，防控升级，全市小区陆续开始实施封闭式管理。
February 10, the first day of the resumption of work in Shanghai, prevention and control upgrade, the whole city began to implement closed management.
湖北之外，明确了14个重点关注地区，其中就包括了安徽阜阳。
Outside Hubei, 14 key areas of concern were identified, including Fuyang, Anhui Province.
这对于基层来说，就相当于增加了排查的工作量。
For the grass-roots level, this amounts to an increased clearance workload.
吴泾镇街道社区卫生服务中心当天收到了来（返）沪人员管控通知，上门排查的工作新增要求14个重点地区的来沪人员都签订《居家隔离要求》。
Wu Jingzhen Road Community Health Service Center received the same day to (return) Shanghai personnel control notice, door-to-door screening of the work of 14 new key areas to sign the Shanghai personnel to sign the "Home Separation Requirements."
2月12日，由社区卫生服务中心的医生、吴泾镇派出所的民警和居委会干部组成的三人小组敲开了陶苗苗家的门，询问了来沪的过程，途经哪些服务区，有没有去过疫情重点地区，并量取了七人的体温，请七人签订了《居家隔离观察承诺书》。
On 12 February, a three-person team consisting of doctors from the community health service centre, civilian police officers from Wu Jingzhen police station and neighborhood committee officials opened the door to the Miao Tao family, asked about the process of coming to Shanghai, which service areas they had passed, whether they had visited the key areas of the epidemic situation and taken the temperature of seven people.
陶苗苗告诉八点健闻，顺利的话，本周日就能够解除隔离。
Tao seedling told eight healthy news, smooth, this Sunday will be able to lift the isolation.
隔离期间，买菜和倒垃圾都是由居委会代劳。
During the period of isolation, buying vegetables and emptying rubbish are carried out by neighborhood committees.
在买菜平台上下单，菜品送到小区门口后，陶苗苗会在微信群里告知居委会的工作人员，再由工作人员短驳送上门；生活垃圾是每天早上十点前放在门口，会有居委会的工作人员统一收走代扔。
In the shopping platform, dishes to the door of the community, pottery seedlings will tell the staff in the micro-letter group, and staff barge to the door; daily garbage before 10 o'clock every morning, the staff will be unified to collect and throw away.
至于七口人在家中的生活，陶苗苗倒也不觉得无聊，“男人们打打游戏，女人们带带孩子，晚上打地铺睡觉。
As for the family life of seven people, pottery seedlings do not feel bored, "men play games, women take children, night bunk sleeping.
”对于居家隔离，陶苗苗非常认同，“我们全家在居委会登记完，就开始自觉在家居家隔离了。
"As for home segregation, Tao seedlings agree," My family registered with the neighborhood committee and began to feel at home in isolation.
辛苦的是居委会的人。
It is the neighborhood committee that works hard.
”12日这一天，吴泾镇社区卫生服务中心的医警居三人小组需要上门排查的人数超过70人，主要是像陶苗苗这样来自14个重点地区返沪的人员。
On the 12th, the three-person team of medical police officers at Wu Jing Town Community Health Service Centre was called upon to screen more than 70 people, mainly from 14 key districts such as Tao seedling.
这份70多人的名单综合自入沪人员在健康云APP上登记的信息、公安大数据以及社区上报的数据。
The list of more than 70 people is based on information registered by Shanghai residents on the Health Cloud APP, big data on public security and data reported by the community.
三人小组共有七组，按照小区划分，每组大约上门排查十几人。
There are seven groups of three people, divided into small areas, each group of about a dozen people.
早上八点半，七部警车从社区卫生服务中心出发，每辆车上有一个民警和一个医生，每到一个小区，民警和医生先到小区与相关的居委会干部会合，三人一起根据名单上门排查，需要排摸清楚返沪人员的途径路线、抵沪时间、密切接触人群。
At 8: 30 a.m., seven police vehicles left the community health service center, each with a civilian police officer and a doctor. Every time they went to a small area, the police and doctors first met with the relevant neighborhood committee cadres.
三人小组中，各角色分别起到不同的作用：民警可以在联系不到排查人员时与派出所驻所民警联系提供公安信息支持，医生可以负责了解排摸对象的身体状况、详细询问接触史，居委会干部更熟悉小区的环境以及小区人员的情况，可以帮助提升排查的效率。
In the three-person team, each role is distinct: the civilian police can contact the station's civilian police to provide public security information support when they are unable to contact the inspectors, and the doctor can be responsible for understanding the physical condition of the person being groped, enquiring about the contact history, becoming more familiar with the surroundings of the neighbourhood and the people in the neighbourhood.
一旦需要隔离，居委会干部也能提供更好的后续隔离服务。
Once the need for isolation, neighborhood committee cadres can also provide better follow-up isolation services.
在小区排摸的过程中，警察和医生的全套防护服总是能引来居民的关注，居民会疑惑发生了什么，是不是有确诊病人，甚至还有人来向排查的警察和医生举报小区内的可疑人员和情况。
The police and doctors' full protective clothing always attracts the attention of residents, who wonder what has happened, whether there is a confirmed patient and even report suspicious persons and conditions in the neighbourhood to the investigating police and doctors.
“一定要跟居民解释清楚，不然过几天可能又是一个110警情，这就浪费警力了。
"Be sure to explain it to the residents, or it could be another 110 police warning in a few days," he said.
”民警孙晓亮每次遇到问题，都会如实告诉居民，这只是重点排查，不是确诊，不用担心。
"Sun Xiaoliang civilian police every time encountered problems, will tell the truth to the residents, this is only a key screening, not diagnosis, do not worry.
居委会干部也会安抚居民，“要是有确诊病人，不会就来这么几个人的。
Neighborhood committee cadres also placate residents, "If there is a confirmed patient, there will not be so many people.
”这位居委会干部也告诉八点健闻，推进防疫工作，在以外来人口和本地老年人为主的老小区相对困难一些。
"The neighborhood committee official also told him to press ahead with the epidemic prevention work, which is relatively difficult in the old residential areas, which are mainly inhabited by immigrants and the elderly.
早期，有一些不配合戴口罩的居民，而目前到了进出小区需要通行证和测量体温的严防阶段，有些居民还没有形成自觉空开一米排队测体温的习惯。
In the early days, there were residents who didn't cooperate with the mask, but now they need permits and a temperature check to get in and out of the area. Some residents have not yet formed the habit of standing in line to take a temperature check.
而居委会能做的，是不断地劝诫。
And what the neighborhood committee can do is constantly admonish.
“比如一些热衷于聚在一起晒太阳的老人家，我们会提醒他们戴好口罩，如果一定要一起晒太阳，那也至少坐得开一点。
"For example, some elderly people who like to get together in the sun, we remind them to wear masks, and if they must bask in the sun together, they can at least sit a little.
”“信息战”从湖南老家返沪的经历让小谭记忆深刻。
"Information Warfare" returned to Shanghai from his hometown in Hunan Province, an experience that impressed Tan.
2月10日晚上6点半，小谭捂着N95口罩到达长沙黄花机场。
February 10 6: 30 p.m., Tan covering the N95 mask arrived at Changsha Huanghua Airport.
门口有两三个戴着口罩、穿着防护服的工作人员测体温。
Two or three men in masks and protective clothing took their temperature at the door.
往常这个点的机场，办理乘机手续、托运的窗口都会排着很长的队，紧急通道上总会有些差点误点的乘客。
Usually at this point in the airport, check-in procedures, check-in windows will be a long queue, emergency corridors will always be some of the passengers almost missed.
这种场面在这一天并未出现。
This did not happen on that day.
乘客很少。
Passengers are few.
环顾四周，大家都低着头，戴着口罩，尽量避免说话。
Looking around, everyone bowed their heads and wore masks, trying to avoid talking.
有人戴的是蓝色的一次性口罩，有人戴着N95。
Some were wearing blue disposable masks, others were wearing N95.
飞往上海的航班本来是9点半起飞。
The flight to Shanghai was supposed to leave at 9: 30.
起飞之前，需要扫码登录健康云，填写航班信息、出发地点，有没有湖北停留、居住史。
Before take-off, you need to scan the health clouds, fill in flight information, departure location, there is no Hubei stay, residence history.
填写完成后，小谭在手机上收到了一条信息——“您的《来沪健康信息登记表》已收到”，同时收到了落地出口提示：非湖北地区、没有湖北停留史的乘客，从B通道出，并附一个核验码。
After completing the form, Tan received a message on his mobile phone, "Your Registration Form for Health Information in Shanghai has been received," as well as an exit warning: Passengers from non-Hubei area who do not have a history of stay in Hubei Province, exit from Channel B with a verification code attached.
受上海虹桥机场的疫情管控影响，飞机近11点才起飞。
The plane did not take off until nearly 11 o'clock due to an outbreak control at Shanghai Hongqiao Airport.
飞机并没有坐满，分了前、中、后三个区域，每个区域之间都隔了很多空座。
The plane was not full and divided into three regions, front, center and back, each with a large number of empty seats.
到达虹桥机场，已经是晚上12点多。
Arriving at Hongqiao airport, it was already over 12 pm.
出口处有A、B两个通道，都站着身穿防护服、戴口罩的工作人员把守。
Exit A and B have two passageways, all standing wearing protective clothing, wearing a mask staff guard.
未经重点地区的小谭从B通道通行，流程包括测体温，以及向工作人员出示手机收到的核验码。
Tam, which is not a priority area, travels through Channel B, which includes temperature measurements and showing staff the verification code received by the phone.
小谭打了个专车回到上海的家中，和专车司机的对话让她感受到了本地人的担忧，“你回来也是在家办公，为什么着急回上海？”她家的小区共有三个出入口，返沪当晚，已经实行了封闭式管理，小谭只得从唯一开放的南门进入。
The conversation with the chauffeur gave her a sense of local concern: "You come back from work at home, so why rush back to Shanghai?" Her home community has three entrances, returned to Shanghai that evening, has implemented closed management, Tan had to enter from the only open South Gate.
进小区之前，被要求再次测体温、填写返沪信息。
Before entering the community, was asked to take temperature again, fill in the return to Shanghai information.
此后，同样的返沪信息、离沪信息、身体状况的填写，小谭又被要求做了至少三次，分别来自物业、居委会和工作地街道。
Since then, the same information back to Shanghai, away from Shanghai information, physical condition of the completion, Tan was asked to do at least three times, from the property, neighborhood and workplace streets.
要帮助基层准确定位重点排查人群，实现精细化管理，入沪人员全数据的信息收集是重要的第一步。
It is an important first step to help the grass-roots level accurately locate the key groups and realize the fine management.
小谭起飞前填写信息的平台就是这次疫情中新开发出来的。
The platform that Tan fills in information before take-off is newly developed in this epidemic situation.
1月31日，基于上海健康云系统的“上海新型肺炎公共服务平台”正式上线，平台搭载“来沪人员健康动态观察系统”、“发热症状在线咨询平台”、“实时疫情通报”、“发热门诊一键查”、“预约挂号如约至”等功能，市民可快速登记健康信息，获得疫情防控相关服务和实时资讯。
On January 31, the Shanghai New Pneumonia Public Service Platform, based on the Shanghai Health Cloud System, officially went online, carrying functions such as "Health Observation System for People in Shanghai," "Online Counselling Platform for Fever Symptoms," "Real-time Outbreak Notification," "One-click Check-up of Fever Clinic" and "Appointment Registration."
参与该平台搭建的一位企业高管告诉八点健闻，平台的上线并非临时一蹴而就的，主要依托前期城市各部门数据的打通，这次主要是在之前的健康云平台的基础上开发了突发疫情版块。
Participating in the platform of an enterprise executives told eight Jiangnan, the platform is not temporary online, mainly relying on the early city departments of data access, this is mainly in the previous health cloud platform on the basis of the development of outbreaks of disease blocks.
作为健康云系统建设的亲历者，该高管回忆称，SARS时期，政府层面就希望能够实现这样的场景：“道口这边来一个人，到什么地方去，社区马上就能知道。
As a person familiar with the construction of healthy cloud systems, the executive recalls that during the SARS period, the government wanted to be able to achieve a scene where "a person comes to the mouth and where the community will soon learn.
这次就完全做到了。
This time it was done completely.
信息化的方式替代原有手头表格的统计，道口的来沪人员信息能快速地落实到具体责任人。
Informationization of the way to replace the original table statistics, Taokou to Shanghai personnel information can be quickly implemented to the specific responsible person.
”上海市卫生健康信息中心主任谢桦曾向媒体描述过信息采集后逐级落到基层的途径：市级平台采集信息之后，根据居住地点分配到所在的区，由区里的负责人分配到社区卫生服务中心，再由社区卫生服务中心分配到具体的工作人员，由具体工作人员来监管。
Ms Sheva, director of the Shanghai Health Information Center, has described to the media how information is collected and then cascaded down to the grass-roots level: municipal platforms collect information, are assigned to the district where they live, are assigned to community health services centres, where they are assigned specific staff and supervised by specific staff.
监管的内容包括居家隔离以及每天两次体温的测量。
Supervision includes home isolation and twice-daily temperature measurements.
在防控疫情、应对城市突发状况中，信息化的配合，让上海防疫工作的一线人员有了新的帮手，帮助城市运营者实现了疫情防控管理闭环。
In the course of preventing and controlling epidemic diseases and responding to urban emergencies, the cooperation of informationization has given front-line workers in Shanghai epidemic prevention new helpers and helped urban operators achieve a close-loop epidemic prevention and control system.
截至2月15日，填报数据经比对确诊8人，疑似44人，排除126人，出院1人。
As at 15 February, 8 persons had been confirmed through data matching, 44 were suspected, 126 had been excluded and 1 had been discharged.
收集到的数据通过大数据分析比对，能帮助决策者了解疫情的动态情况，甚至进一步做出防控的决策部署。
The data collected can be compared with big data analysis to help decision makers understand the dynamics of the epidemic, and even to make decision-making arrangements for control.
“比如具体到哪家工厂能不能复工，这也是可以通过数据分析得出的，依据可以包括这家工厂的员工中有没有从重点地区来的，相关的供应链的情况等等。
"It's also possible to analyze data on which factory, for example, will be able to get back to work, depending on whether the factory's employees are from key locations, supply chain conditions, etc.
”上述高管说道。
'said the executive.
“人民战争”居委会干部告诉八点健闻，大部分居家隔离人员还是非常自觉的，一方面是自己有隔离意识，另一方面，邻里之间也起到了监督的作用。
"People's War" cadres told eight Jiangnan, most of the people separated or very conscious, on the one hand, their sense of isolation, on the other hand, neighbors also played a role in monitoring.
上海市司法局一级巡视员刘平曾表示，封闭式管理并不是隔绝，也不是封锁，而是一种有效、可控的管控措施，目的是发挥社区群防群治力量，加强源头管控，守好社区的安全门。
Liu Ping, a first-class inspector at the Shanghai Justice Bureau, has said that closed management is not isolation, nor is it a blockade, but an effective and controllable control measure aimed at harnessing the power of community groups, strengthening source control and keeping the community safe.
这一天，孙晓亮所在的三人小组共排摸了11人，因为涉及一家七口，其实总计只有五户，但结束排查已经是中午11点半了，整整花了三个小时。
Sun's three-member team, composed of 11 people, had just five families out of a total of seven, but it ended at 11: 30 p.m. It took three hours.
每到一个小区，民警和医生对于小区居委会的所在地已经很熟悉了，居委会干部也知道每天都可能会有上门排查，会有专门的人在居委会值班，所以找居委会和三人小组会师的过程很顺利，并不耽误时间。
Every small area, the police and doctors have become familiar with the location of the neighborhood committee, neighborhood committee cadres know that there may be a daily home inspection, there will be specialized people on duty in the neighborhood, so the process of finding neighborhood committee and three-group meeting is smooth and does not waste time.
而耽误时间的主要是一些特殊情况，这一天遇到的情况主要有：待排查人员已经复工工作不在家；登记的房屋信息实际是租户居住，还需要再通过派出所的公安信息联系上本人。
The delay is mainly due to special circumstances, such as the fact that the person concerned has returned to work and is not at home, the fact that the information on the registered house is actually that of the tenant, and the need to contact the individual through the police station's public security information.
在孙晓亮看来，大数据产生的名单只是一个基础，上门排查的过程中需要更详细地排查，摸清证据链。
In Sun's view, the list produced by big data is only a basis, and the process of door-to-door searches needs to be sorted out in more detail to map out the chain of evidence.
“比如我们的数据可能只登记了车辆车主的信息，那上门排查的时候，还需要问清楚同行人员的情况。
"For example, our data may only register the owner of the vehicle, so you need to ask people who are with you when you do the door-to-door search.
”为了防止返沪人员隐瞒信息，孙晓亮会要求返沪人员提供能够证明返沪路线和返沪时间的证据，这些证据包括高铁车票或者购票信息、服务区消费记录、导航软件的行驶轨迹以及电信服务商的短信提醒。
In order to prevent people returning to Shanghai to conceal information, Sun will ask people to come back to Shanghai to provide evidence of high-speed rail tickets or ticket purchases, service area consumption records, navigation software tracks and SMS alerts from telecom service providers.
“春节期间，高速公路可能免通行费，我们无法判定自驾抵沪的时间，那也可以提供回到上海后的消费记录。
"During the Spring Festival, freeways may be toll-free, so we can't tell when we're going to be in Shanghai," he said.
如果这些都没有，重点地区的返沪人员的隔离日期只能按照上门排查日开始。
If none of these, the key areas of the return of personnel to Shanghai can only start the date of door-to-door inspection.
”△ 排查对象向民警出示抵沪时间短信证据随着上海复工、返程高峰的到来，孙晓亮明显感觉到上门排查任务加重了。
"After the survey, the police were shown evidence of arrival time. With the coming of the peak of Shanghai's return journey, Sun clearly felt that the task of door-to-door inspection had been intensified.
“复工前一天2月9日最多，吴泾镇总共上门排查了300多人。
"At its peak on February 9, the day before the resumption of work, Wu Jingzhen conducted a total of more than 300 house raids.
”在上海，疫情防控措施被概括为“四管齐下”——医疗救治、道口查控、社区防控、有序复工。
In Shanghai, the prevention and control of the epidemic is outlined as the "four Rs" - medical treatment, border control, community control, and orderly return to work.
其中，道口作为入沪防线，承担了切断输入性风险的任务，截至2月14日，全市9个省际高速道口、20个地面公安检查站、63个等外道口，累计检查车辆243万余辆次、人员560万余人次，送集中隔离观察点1676人，移交体温异常人员587人，劝返相关地区来沪车辆4854辆、人员8220人。
As of February 14, the city's nine provincial highway crossings, 20 ground public security checkpoints and 63 external crossings had sent a cumulative total of 2.43 million vehicles and 5.6 million people to 1,676 centralized observation points, handed over 587 people with abnormal body temperature, and persuaded the relevant areas to come to Shanghai 4854 vehicles and 8,220 personnel.
除了陆路通道，铁路、机场等入沪通道也是排查重点。
In addition to land access, railways, airports and other routes into Shanghai is also the focus of the inventory.
在机场、火车站，每位抵达旅客需经过体温检测和信息登记核查。
At airports and railway stations, every arriving passenger has to undergo a temperature check and information registration check.
各道口返沪人员的信息登记是第一步，而真正的管理最终是要落实到基层的精细化防控上的，可以说真正的战场还是在基层。
The first step is to register the information of the people returning to Shanghai, and the real management is to implement the fine control of the grass-roots level can be said that the real battlefield or at the grass-roots level.
谢桦在接受媒体采访时也提到，“防疫工作的目标和手段是非常明确的，目标是减少传播，手段就是切断传播途径。
"The objectives and means of prevention are very clear and the goal is to reduce transmission by cutting off transmission," Ms Sheva said in an interview with the media.
线上登记系统只是能够发现需要重点关注的人群，真正要找到和管理，还需要靠基层和社区。
Online registration systems are only able to identify people in need of focused attention and need to be located and managed at the grass-roots and community levels.
”吴晔婷|撰稿摄影微信号：wytlucky19谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing a photo microsignal: wytlucky 19 Tam Cheuk-chuu & # 124; Writing microsignals: tzz19930706 quarter Minhua & # 124; Blame microsignals: janejiminhua.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
确诊病例连续2天零增长，复工潮中的上海怎样打防疫战？。
Confirmed cases of zero growth for 2 days in a row, the resumption of work in Shanghai how to fight epidemic prevention?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "确诊病例连续2天零增长，复工潮中的上海怎样打防疫战？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "上海疫情防控措施被概括为“四管齐下”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The Shanghai epidemic prevention and control program has been outlined as the "Four Rs."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
