疫情生活同题问答：摘掉口罩相遇的那一天，请互相点头微笑吧。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n.
康堤。
Kangdi.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
疫情风暴之下，相互隔离的日子里，日常生活似乎被搁置起来。
In the days of isolation under the storm, everyday life seemed to be put on hold.
GQ报道设置了一组问题，邀请一些朋友聊聊在疫情后方，作为个体、作为公民的你我——作家班宇写了一篇小说，在疫情中重新审度文学的价值与意义；电影人关雅荻在海上漂流20多天，上岸后为发生的一切感到诧异；朴实无华且枯燥的“朱一旦”制作了视频《一只劳力士的回家之路》，问出口罩难题；短视频博主李雪琴陷入自我怀疑，为新的表达方式所苦恼，为此她耗费6个小时在家里绕圈两万步；演员金靖在减肥，在为疫情一线的故事哭，但这两天逐渐找回了平静；音乐人张玮玮在初五夜晚看到了全城的烟花，但分不清情绪是幸福还是悲伤；编剧王倦在赶一位医生生前最想看到的《庆余年2》......回到生活日常，回到职业角色，回到公民身份，每个人都在历史之中。
The writer Ben-woo, an individual and citizen, wrote a novel reconsidering the value and significance of literature in the midst of the epidemic. Actor Jing Jing spent more than 20 days at sea, crying for stories about the epidemic.
身为普通人的你我，或许渺小而无力，但我们还可以努力记录，校正内心的砝码，从中获得启发，期盼春天的到来。
As ordinary people, you and I, may be small and powerless, but we can also try to record, correct inner weights, from which to draw inspiration, looking forward to the arrival of spring.
就像王倦说的，经过这段时间，当我们再次在街上遇见，即使不认识彼此，我们也都是共渡难关的战友，到时候请互相点头微笑吧。
As Wang tired said, after this time, when we meet again in the street, even if do not know each other, we are also a comrade-in-arms, when the time comes to nod and smile.
···············❶日常GQ报道：目前的日常状态是怎样的？持续了多长时间？有没有做一些平时不会做的事？班宇：七点半左右醒过来，洗漱，吃早饭，读书或者看电影，间或刷着新闻，与朋友聊几句，偶尔午睡，做饭，晚上六点吃晚餐，读书或者写作，到八九点钟，开始自己喝酒，直至午夜。
What is the current daily routine? How long has it lasted? Banyu: Wake up around 7: 30, wake up, wash, eat breakfast, read or go to the movies, or brush the news, chat with friends, take naps, cook, have dinner at six in the evening, read or write until midnight.
在此之前，我几乎从不独自饮酒，没有必要，但疫情开始后，经常整夜无法入眠，我希望能睡个好觉。
Until then, I had hardly ever drunk alone, not necessarily, but I had been unable to sleep all night since the outbreak began, and I wanted to sleep well.
塞林格在小说里写过，只要一个人真正有了睡意，那么他总有希望能重新成为一个——一个身心健康如初的人的。
Salinger writes in the novel that if one is really sleepy, one always has hope of becoming a new person - one who is both physically and mentally healthy.
我无比渴望睡意。
I can't wait to sleep.
疫情发生时，我给朋友推荐丹尼尔·笛福的《瘟疫年纪事》，新新闻主义式的虚构作品，形容逼真，技巧十分现代。
When the epidemic broke out, I recommended Daniel Defoe's "The Plague Age," a neo-journalistic fiction that described life and skill as modern.
灾难发生时，古今无不同。
When disaster strikes, it is the same today.
祈祷者、江湖术士、占星家等逐一登场，到处都是数字，而数字并非新闻，它只在上升又上升，疫区变成另一种“荒岛”。
Prayers, charlatans, astrologers, etc. come out one by one, with numbers everywhere, but numbers are not news. They are only rising and rising, and the epidemic area is becoming another kind of "desert island."
有时在微博上看见那些求助者的信息，感受更深，像是鲁滨逊渴求着一位能与之交谈的同伴，或者说，并非交谈，甚至是将要溺亡，而大多数时刻，我们只是眼看他们在一点一点地失语、陷落。
Sometimes the message of those who seek help is felt more deeply on a microblog, like Robinson craving a companion with whom he can talk, or not talking, or even drowning, and most of the time we see them languish and fall apart.
所能做的，也不过是尝试着将声音传向更远处，而那里会不会有行动和回应，完全是未知的。
All that can be done is try to carry the sound farther away, and whether there will be action and response is entirely unknown.
我总在提醒自己，发声不是义务，却是所有人的权利，以及，在任何意义上，这种行为都不会是一针自我的安慰剂：我们所要扮演的角色远不止于一位传声员。
I am always reminding myself that voice is not a duty, but a right of all, and that in any sense it is not a placebo for ourselves: we have much more to play than a voice-teller.
除此之外，这些天里，我还试着重读马尔克斯的《霍乱时期的爱情》，两次，均未读完，这本书太令我心碎了。
Besides, I've been trying to read Marks' Cholera Love twice these days, but I haven't finished reading it. It's heartbreaking.
读着几近崩溃。
Almost collapsed reading.
年龄越长，便越是软弱，越是不堪，越是一塌糊涂。
The older you get, the weaker and more unbearable, the more confused you become.
当然，我也在努力克服。
Of course, I'm trying to overcome it.
朱一旦：作息变化不大，我没有睡懒觉的习惯，不过熬夜没落下。
Zhu once: The work and rest do not change very much, I did not sleep in habit, but stay up late.
偶尔做饭，但是手艺一般，毕竟平时外卖什么都能点到。
Occasionally cooking, but the craft is mediocre, after all, usually take out anything can be ordered.
网上的那些电饭煲蛋糕之类的也试过，但是效果不咋地。
Those rice cookers and the like on the Internet have also been tried, but the effect is not very good.
关雅荻：从2019年9月1号开始，我一直在参加为期11个月、共15场分站的克利伯环球帆船赛，我是11艘赛船中青岛号的环球媒体船员。
Di Guan: Since September 1, 2019, I have been taking part in the 11-month Clifford Global Marina, a 15-station sailing boat race, and I am a global media crew member of the Qingdao of the 11 races.
2020年1月20号，我从澳大利亚Airlie Beach出发，再次靠岸菲律宾的Subic Bay已经是2月14日的早晨了。
On January 20, 2020, I set out from Airlie Beach, Australia, and landed again on the morning of February 14 at Subic Bay in the Philippines.
天涯海角，每次出发都没信号，通信隔绝。
The ends of the earth, every time the departure of no signal, communication isolation.
从上一场比赛开始，我才花钱买了一些卫星数据流量，只能发纯文字的邮件，而且按每一个字算钱，比较贵。
It was only since the last game that I had to pay for some satellite traffic, just plain text mail, and more expensive per word.
我用来跟家人和最好的几个朋友进行简单通信。
I used it for simple correspondence with my family and a few of my best friends.
关于疫情，只是知道更新的一些数字，具体发生了什么事，在比赛期间无从得知。
With regard to the outbreak, only some updated figures are known, and what exactly happened is not known during the game.
2月13号傍晚，靠近陆地时，手机有信号了，我打开看到那天新增感染病例14000多，我就有点恍惚，然后再翻看之前的很多新闻报道和文章，才知道过去三周多，国内发生了太多太多。
On the evening of February 13, as I approached land, my cell phone gave a signal. When I opened and saw more than 14,000 new infections that day, I was a bit dazed and then looked through a lot of previous news reports and articles to see how much had happened in the country over the past three weeks.
跨洋帆船比赛的日常就是甲板值班和休息的轮替。
The daily routine of a transatlantic sailing race is the alternation of deck duty and rest.
我不需要上甲板的时候，大多在船舱内进行媒体工作，拍照、视频采访，然后就是大量的赛志写作、剧本写作还有阅读，每天非常紧凑和充实。
When I don't need to go on deck, I do a lot of media work in the cabin, take photos, do video interviews, then do a lot of blog writing, script writing and reading.
只是刚刚完成的第5场和第6场比赛，因为进入跨赤道的无风带，船速比较慢，比赛节奏没有之前那么紧张，相对轻松一些。
It was just the fifth and sixth games, because the speed of the boat was slower and the tempo of the race was not as intense and relatively relaxed as it had been before as it entered the equatorial windless zone.
关雅荻在青岛号上的日常李雪琴：回家前我以为我就放十天假，连电脑都没有带回来，现在需要工作，我只能拿一个破手机工作，手机还进水了，有一块黑的，也没法修，就只能挺着。
Before I went home, I thought I was going to take ten days off, I didn't even bring my computer back. Now I need to work. I have to work on a broken cell phone.
生活没啥影响，本来我就天天在家待着，能待老长时间。
Life doesn't matter. I stayed at home every day for a long time.
跟平常不一样的是，第一个是会看电视，第二个是我拍短视频会带着我妈，我天天就拍我妈。
Unlike usual, the first one is watching TV, the second is that I take my mom with me for a short video, and I shoot my mom every day.
我那天还干了一个特别傻的事，我想剪出来发来着，就是我在家走了两万步。
I did a really stupid thing the other day, and I wanted to cut it out and send it. It was twenty thousand steps at home.
我绕着我家100平的房子，一圈一圈、一圈一圈，走迷糊了就停下来歇一下，耗费6个小时，手机显示两万步。
I walked around my 100-level house, around the circle, around, around, lost on a stop, spent six hours, mobile phone display 20,000 steps.
张玮玮：我和全国人民一样，从春节开始就一直在家宅着，已经二十多天了。
Zhang Weiwei: I and the people of the country, from the Spring Festival has been at home, has been more than 20 days.
作为自由职业者，平时就是在家工作，所以生活没受太多影响。
As a freelancer, I usually work from home, so my life isn't much affected.
春节前我妈正好来云南一起过节，最近厨房就交给她了，每天都是我最爱吃的饭菜。
My mother came to Yunnan for the holidays just before Spring Festival, and recently the kitchen was given to her. Every day is my favorite meal.
正月初五我就恢复如常，白天在工作室练琴听歌，晚上和家人看个电影，有几天每天一部迪斯尼动画片，全家闷在屋子里，得看些轻松的。
On the fifth day of the first month, I went back to my normal routine, listening to music in the studio during the day, watching a movie with my family in the evening and a Disney animated film a few days a day.
我自己看了几部讲病毒的纪录片，去年买了本天体物理的科普书，最近拿出来接着看。
I've seen a couple of viral documentaries myself, bought a science book on astrophysics last year, and recently took it up and looked at it again.
这种时期学习科学知识，感觉能让自己镇定些。
Learning scientific knowledge at this time makes you feel calmer.
金靖：最近在尝试网上看到的某一种间歇性断食：一顿吃鸡蛋牛奶红薯，一顿吃鸡胸肉西蓝花。
Jing Jing: Some kind of intermittent fasting recently seen on the Internet: an egg, milk, sweet potato, and a sirloin.
也会做一些简单的运动，天鹅臂以及45分钟+的椭圆仪，在重温《武林外传》《还珠格格》和《知否知否应是绿肥红瘦》，特地在kindle上买了村上春树全集重看。
They also do some simple exercises, swan arms and a 45-minute-plus oval instrument and specially bought Murakami reruns in the Kindle by revisiting "The Wu Lin Exodus," "Returning to Pearl River Gear" and "Know if It Should Be Green and Thin."
和（搭档）刘胜瑛互发一些关于疫情的文章，一起哭，聊减肥等。
Liu Shengying and (partner) exchange some articles on the epidemic situation, crying together, talking about weight loss.
王倦：目前生活状态和平时没有太大不同，我这工作本来就是家里办公，写字，看片，看书，娱乐，发呆，形式上大致如此。
Wang tired: At present, my life is not so different from usual. My job is to work at home, writing, watching movies, reading, entertaining, dazing, and so on.
不同的地方一个是吃饭，平时大多是外卖，现在更多是自己做，不过从来不发朋友圈，因为朋友圈里全是星级大厨水准，不敢比。
A different place is to eat, usually takeaway, now more do it themselves, but never friends circle, because friends are full of star chef standards, dare not compare.
再就是作息，以前作息混乱，昼伏夜出，疫情时反而正常了一些，因为要看各方新闻，关注疫情。
Then rest and sleep, the former confusion of the day and night, but the outbreak of a bit more normal, because depends on the news, attention to the epidemic.
平时也宅，可真不出门了，又觉着对窗外充满渴望，看到阳光好都会隔窗看街道半天，总觉得哪怕阳光下无目的闲逛也是好的。
Usually also mansion, really do not go out, and feel the window full of desire to see the sun will look at the streets through the window half a day, always feel that even if the sun aimlessly wandering is good.
❷新闻GQ报道：每天花在微博和朋友圈多少时间？疫情之中最关注的两条新闻是什么？班宇：刚开始时，花在社交媒体上的时间，每天近十个小时，不断刷新，再去归纳、分析、讨论。
How much time do you spend every day on Weibo and your circle of friends? What are the two most important news items in the epidemic? Banyu: In the beginning, the time spent on social media, nearly 10 hours a day, is constantly refreshed, then summed up, analysed and discussed.
朋友笑话我说，成立了一个人的调查队。
My friend laughed at me and said that a human investigation team had been set up.
后来太过疲惫，心力交瘁，难以维持，近些天少了很多，但微博的话，三四个小时也是有的，朋友圈几乎不怎么看了。
Later too tired, exhausted, difficult to maintain, the recent days are much less, but micro-blog, three or four hours, friends almost do not see.
不过重要内容应该也没有错过。
But important things should not be missed.
最关注的新闻，我只说一条，就是李文亮大夫的去世。
The most interesting news, I would just like to say one thing, is the death of Dr. Lee Wenliang.
李医生也是我好友妻子的高中同窗，作为同代人，感受太复杂了。
Dr. Lee is also a high school classmate of my best friend's wife. As a contemporary, it was a complicated experience.
朱一旦：每天起码有一半时间都在这上面。
Zhu once: At least half the day is on it.
毕竟我们做的是这个，对于最新消息和大家最关注的内容我们得保持敏感度。
After all, this is what we do, and we have to be sensitive to the latest news and what people care most about.
有时候也会强迫自己做些其他的事情，来调剂一下心情。
Sometimes I have to force myself to do something else to relieve my mood.
疫情中新闻太多了，刷多了会焦虑，比较关注的还是前线的最新消息。
Too much news in the epidemic, too much anxiety, more attention to the latest news in the front line.
关雅荻：目前我刚靠岸菲律宾三天，这三天对我来说是压缩式接受信息的三天。
Di Guan: I have just arrived in the Philippines for three days. These three days have been a compressed period of information for me.
可能是特殊情况，我每天至少七八个小时，都在回看之前的微博、朋友圈文章和一些新闻报道。
Perhaps exceptionally, I go back at least seven or eight hours a day, looking back at previous microblogs, articles from friends and some news reports.
最关注的新闻毫无疑问是李文亮医生。
The most interesting news is undoubtedly Dr. Lee Wenliang.
这次我们面对太多的人生悲剧和苦难，这都需要我们用很长的时间去学会面对、反思和消化，然后带着伤痛，也要再次抬起头，继续积极生活。
This time we are faced with too many human tragedies and hardships, which take us a long time to learn to face, reflect and digest, and then with pain, to look up again and continue to live an active life.
另外就是关于电影行业受到冲击的消息，整个春节档消失了。
In addition to the film industry is affected by the news, the entire Spring Festival archives disappeared.
目前整个中国电影行业尤其是影院面临着严重的生存危机。
At present, the whole Chinese film industry, especially cinemas, is facing a serious existential crisis.
李雪琴：日均使用微博3小时31分钟，还没平时用的多呢。
Li Xueqin: The average daily use of microblogging 3 hours 31 minutes, has not been used more than usual.
一开始零散的信息涌进来的时候，你每秒钟都想去处理，但现在你慢慢地适应了这个信息强度之后，你就会把它压缩成一个时间集中处理。
You want to deal with it every second as the first bits of information pour in, but now that you get used to the intensity of the information, you compress it into a time-intensive process.
这不是有意控制的，是一点点进化的。
It's not intentional. It's a little evolutionary.
最近我把微博评论关了。
I recently closed my microblog comment.
起因是我有一次直播，我就被直播间里问的那些问题，弄崩溃了，我当时特别脆弱，正直播着就哭出来了。
It started when I had a live broadcast, and I was devastated by the questions I was asked in the studio, and I was so vulnerable that I started to cry live.
大家在说：你凭什么能当网红；你做的不好，你应该怎么怎么样；还有就是，你捐没捐钱，捐多少钱，我们不相信。
People are saying, "What makes you a net-star? You don't do well, you should do what you do. And we don't believe you give anything, how much.
我最关注的两条新闻：第一个物资相关的新闻，因为我一直在给医院找物资；第二个是李文亮医生，我姥姥家那边都是医生，我对这个职业是有共情的。
The first item is related to news, because I have been looking for supplies for the hospital. The second is Dr. LiWenLiang. My grandma is all doctors there, I have empathy for this profession.
张玮玮：最近微博上有些情绪化，很多信息都是扭曲的，所以我卸载了微博。
Zhang Weiwei: Recently Weibo on some emotional, a lot of information is distorted, so I uninstalled Weibo.
我半年前就已经关闭了朋友圈，所以没在社交网络上用太多时间。
I closed my circle of friends half a year ago, so I didn't spend much time on social networking.
这种非常时期，普通人让自己安静下来，就是抗疫的一种力量吧。
This unusual period, ordinary people let themselves calm down, is a force against the disease bar.
我每天起来第一件事就是查政府的通报，盼着新增和死亡病例能赶快降下来，生活恢复正常。
The first thing I do every day is to check the government's reports, hoping that new cases and deaths will soon come down and life will return to normal.
除此之外最关注的就是在湖北的医护人员和居民的消息，他们在疫情最严重的地区，无法想象过得有多艰难。
What matters most is the news from medical staff and residents in Hubei, who cannot imagine how difficult it is to live in the worst affected areas.
这段时间还在追一个武汉小伙子的vlog，封城后他一直在做志愿者，给医院和被感染的人帮忙。
During this time is still chasing a Wuhan young man vlog, after the closure of the city he has been working as a volunteer to help hospitals and infected people.
看着他那么坚强和善良，就觉得一切都有希望。
Seeing how strong and kind he was, he felt that there was hope in everything.
武汉市民@蜘蛛猴面包 拍摄的vlog金靖：最近不太看微博，因为在2月7号之前，几乎每天都要因为新闻大哭，哭到头疼。
Vlog Jing, taken by Wuhan @ Spider Monkey Bread: Until February 7, weeping and crying caused headaches almost every day.
所以这些天就选择“自私”一点，也是为了保持心情的平静。
So these days to choose a "selfish" point, but also to maintain a calm mood.
现在每天做的也只是起床看一下数字，大致浏览一下热搜。
Now what you do every day is just to get up and look at the numbers, browse through the hot search.
疫情之中最关注的新闻就是每天更新的数字。
One of the biggest concerns of the epidemic is the number of daily updates.
王倦：每天在微博和朋友圈的时间非常少，主要是有一段时间谣言太多，传闻遍布，有些消息甚至连基本的逻辑链都不存在，就觉着多看影响情绪。
Mr. Wang: Very little time is spent every day on Weibo and in your circle of friends. The main reason is that there are too many rumors, rumors all over the place, and some messages don't even have a basic logical chain.
李文亮医生的微博提到想看《庆余年》续集这些天关注的两条新闻，一个是李医生，从他的微博，突然觉得他好像就是身边的一个普通人，所以那段时间心情不太好。
Dr LiWenLiang's micro-blog mentioned that he wanted to see the sequel to "Celebrate the Year" two news these days, one is Dr. Li, from his micro-blog, suddenly feel like he is a normal person around, so the mood is not very good.
再一个新闻其实算是系列新闻，就是每一天的疫情报告，人数增减，天天认真在看，病情增长减缓，心情都会好点。
Another news is actually a series of news, that is, every day of the epidemic report, increase or decrease in the number of people, every day in earnest, the disease growth slowed down, the mood will be better.
❸公民GQ报道：这段时间，你做了哪些跟疫情相关的事？班宇：说来惭愧，我写了一篇小说。
What did you do with the epidemic during this time? Banyu: Ashamed, I wrote a novel.
起因是我拖欠一本杂志的稿件太长时间了，以年为计，各方催债，实在不好意思，就逼着自己干了一个。
Cause I owe a magazine manuscripts too long, in years, each party to debt, really embarrassed, forced themselves to do one.
但身处疫情之中，没办法去想别的，所以这篇小说跟疫情、武汉都有一点联系。
But in the epidemic, there is no way to think of anything else, so this novel with the epidemic, Wuhan have a bit of connection.
我在写作时，经常责问，在这样的时刻，好像总有一些事情，要比写一篇小说更重要、也更紧迫一点，但那又是什么呢？答不出来。
When I write, I often ask, at times like this, there seems to be something more important and urgent than writing a novel, but what is that?
整个过程里，也不太能写得下去，心思极乱，但我咬着牙，仿佛非如此不可。
The whole process, also can not write down, mind is very messy, but I gnash teeth, as if it must be so.
朱一旦：宣传了一些相关的知识，捐了点口罩和现金。
Zhu once: Publicized some related knowledge, donated some masks and cash.
还跟团队拍了几个视频，再就是待在家。
He took a couple of videos with the team and stayed home.
关雅荻：我依然在比赛中，2月23号又出发了。
Guan Ya Di: I'm still in the competition. I started again on February 23rd.
目前在有限的时间里我能做的就是，邀请一些不同行业的朋友，用清谈闲聊的方式，通过直播这种形态，让更多在家中被憋闷很久的朋友，多一个放松心情的选择。
All I can do in the limited time available is to invite friends from different industries to share their gossip on the air so that more friends who have been suffocated in their homes can have a more relaxing time.
上下一心支持前线与病毒作战是一场歼灭战，但大后方如何能让公众顺利度过这段艰难时期，保护精神和心理健康，也是一场隐形的持久战。
Fighting the virus on the front line is a war of annihilation, but how can the home front get the public through this difficult period, protecting mental and psychological well-being, is also an invisible and protracted battle.
李雪琴：我每天都在找口罩，做梦都在搬口罩，但是都发不出来货，后来我就放弃了。
Li Xueqin: I am looking for a mask every day, I dream of moving it, but I can't get it out, and then I give up.
我唯一能买的就是医用手套，我粉丝群里有个人，他的厂是专门做医用手套的，我就购买了一些寄出去。
The only thing I could buy was a medical glove. There was a guy in my fan base who made medical gloves, so I bought some and mailed them.
我对疫情的贡献就仅止于此了。
That is the end of my contribution to the epidemic.
张玮玮：最近做的事都和疫情相关，但好像除了躲在家里，又没什么实质的联系。
Zhang Weiwei: The recent things are related to the epidemic, but it seems to be hiding in the home, there is no substantive link.
想为湖北做些什么，但除了找到物资送过去，其他的似乎也没什么用。
Want to do something for Hubei, but except to find supplies to send to the past, other seems to be of little use.
春节家人买的口罩是前几天才寄到，还是民用的防尘口罩，就别提真正的物资了。
Spring Festival family bought masks are only a few days ago, or civilian dust masks, do not mention the real material.
相信很多人都和我一样无奈吧。
I believe that many people are as helpless as me.
金靖：逼着我爸每天吃鸡蛋；选择自己比较相信的组织捐款；和父母在家到现在已经待了15天，几乎天天看妈妈练五禽戏。
Jin Jing: force my father to eat eggs every day; choose the organization that he more believe in donating money; and my parents have been at home for 15 days now, watching my mother practice Wuyuopera almost every day.
王倦：大概就是买口罩，半夜搜淘宝，查存量等等，后来发现自己基本都不出门，就没再继续，够用就行了。
Wang tired: probably is to buy masks, midnight search Taobao, inventory, and so on, and then found that the basic do not go out, no more to continue, enough to go.
还有就是捐了点钱，数目就不提了，这时候捐钱的应该都是觉得有心无力，希望多少能帮到疫情前线，就别比多少了，心意重要。
There is also donated some money, the number is not mentioned, at this time should be donated money should feel powerless, hope how much can help the epidemic front, not more than how much, the mind is important.
❹难忘瞬间GQ报道：分享过去20多天的一个难忘的私人瞬间。
An Unforgettable Moment of Love GQ Report: Share an unforgettable personal moment over the past 20 days.
班宇：李医生走后的第二天，我看有一个纪念活动，大约晚上九点，在窗台上点一根蜡烛，或者打开手机的闪光灯，朝向窗外。
BANG-woo: The day after Dr. Lee left, I saw a commemoration in which I lit a candle on the windowsill at about 9: 00 p. m., or turned on the flashlight of my cell phone and turned it out of the window.
我在家里找了半天，没有蜡烛，便将窗户打开，伸出闪着亮光的手机，同时向外望去，什么也没有，只是一片漆黑，只是趋于无限的静寂。
I had been searching the house for a long time, without a candle, when I opened the window and held out a gleaming cell phone, and looked out nothing but darkness, only infinite silence.
寒风吹入，我衣着单薄，立即被打透，太冷了，冬天不知何时结束。
Cold wind blowing in, I dress thin, was immediately beaten through, too cold, winter do not know when to end.
朱一旦：《一只劳力士的回家之路》这个视频发布那天，晚上看着视频发布成功，上热搜，粉丝刷屏保护，好多粉丝私信我们，这让我觉得做这件事是值得的。
Zhu once: "A Rolex's Way Home" video released that night, watching the video release, hot search, fan brush screen protection, a lot of fans private trust us, which makes me think it is worthwhile to do it.
关雅荻：离开赤道向北的一个夜晚，银河在面前打开，特别亮。
Di Guan Ya: One night north of the equator, the Milky Way opened up in front of me.
我盯着一个高速移动的人造飞行器（应该是一个人造卫星），在群星中穿过，我一直盯着它看，目送它远去。
I stared at a man-made, high-speed vehicle (supposed to be a man-made satellite), passing through the stars, staring at it and seeing it go.
宇宙中的群星，人类站在地球表面来看，密密麻麻，就像大都市街头拥挤的人群，但其实每一颗星之间都隔着浩瀚的宇宙空间。
The stars of the universe, human beings standing on the surface of the earth, are dense, like the crowded streets of a big city, but each of them is separated by a vast space.
我希望此刻，无论从事什么职业，选择什么样的生活方式，我们心与心的距离都能再近一些。
I hope that at this moment, no matter what profession and lifestyle we choose, the distance between our hearts and hearts can be a little closer.
李雪琴：比较难忘的瞬间其实是我和我妈躺在长沙发上睡觉，只有一个毯子，那个毯子特别长，我俩一个在沙发这头，一个在那头，我俩的脚正好能稍微错开点。
Li Xueqin: The most unforgettable moment was actually my mother and I sleeping on the couch. There was only a blanket. It was very long.
醒了之后我妈就问，你饿吗，我妈一天能问我八遍，你饿吗。
When I woke up, my mother asked, Are you hungry? Can my mother ask me eight times a day? Are you hungry?
张玮玮：我住在云南的一个小城市，这里还没有禁止放炮。
Zhang Weiwei: I live in a small city in Yunnan Province, where artillery is not banned.
初五我和家人站在阳台上看烟花，家人心情都挺好，几天来终于有了些节日的气氛。
Junior 5 I and my family stand on the balcony to watch fireworks, family members are in a good mood, a few days have finally had some festive atmosphere.
我家在山坡上，几乎能看到全城的烟花，看着看着我突然就哭了。
My home in the hillside, almost the entire city can see the fireworks, watching me suddenly cried.
我也分不清是因为幸福还是悲伤，月儿弯弯照九州，几家欢乐几家愁。
I also do not know because of happiness or sadness, the moon bending over Kyushu, a few happy families worried.
那么多人正在灾难中无助地挣扎，而我们的幸福就像偷来的一样。
So many people are struggling helplessly in a disaster, and our happiness is like stealing.
金靖：前几天最难过的时候，发了一条内容很丧的朋友圈，很久没联系的一个朋友发来鼓励的微信，跟我说“你不可以这样”。
Jing Jing: the last few days the most sad time, issued a very frustrated circle of friends, a long time did not contact a friend sent a message of encouragement, say "you can not do this."
王倦：我想了想，完全没有，倒是被新闻报道感动过，愤怒过，无奈过，有情绪波动，但私人生活，没有突发事件。
Wang tired: I thought, not at all, but was moved by the news report, angry, helpless, emotional fluctuations, but private life, no emergency.
其实这大概是好事，正常的活着，已经很幸福了，我希望就这么宅着，直到看到疫情消退。
In fact, this is probably a good thing, normal life, has been very happy, I hope to stay in this house until the epidemic subsided.
也希望每个人都能平平常常，无惊无险地度过这段时间。
I also hope that everyone will be able to pass the time without fear or fright.
❺职业GQ报道：你所在的行业、领域（或个人工作）受到了什么影响？为此做了什么？班宇：本来，我计划在今年三月份发一本新书，但其中部分稿件始终没有处理完，想趁着春节假期，专心工作几日，进行一番调整与修改，以便按时发书。
What has happened to your industry, field (or personal job)? Banyu: I was planning to launch a new book in March this year, but part of it was never finished.
但目前来看，可能还要往后拖，这个情况下，我不太能进入状态。
But for now, I'm probably going to have to put it off, and I'm not going to make it.
疫情时刻相当独特，许多伦理需要重新确认，文学的价值与意义也要再度审视。
The epidemic moment is quite unique, many ethics need to be reconfirmed, the value and significance of literature should be re-examined.
我为此所做的，就是什么也没做，只是想一想这些问题。
All I do is do nothing, just think about it.
不能完全清楚，但也无法停止。
Not completely clear, but it can't stop.
这些天里，我也总能记起陆忆敏以前的一句诗：我站在你跟前，已洗手不干。
These days, I can always remember one of Lu Yimin's former poems: I stood in front of you and did not do it.
朱一旦：我有个做线下活动为主的广告公司，那肯定受影响很大。
Zhu once: I have an advertising company doing offline activities, that must be very affected.
也算个契机吧，把线上的业务做起来。
It's also a chance to get your online business going.
其他的业务也有受蛮大影响！不过能有更多时间停下来，也是个很好的事。
Other businesses are affected too! But it would be nice to have more time to stop.
对于做内容的公司而言，最大问题就是没有办法及时完成拍摄，所以我们推出了朱一旦的二维生活，算是给了大家一个缓冲，之后在条件允许的情况下略显艰难地完成了拍摄，效果还不错。
For the content companies, the biggest problem is that there is no way to complete the shooting in time, so we introduced Zhu's two-dimensional life as a buffer, and then, when conditions permit, the filming was done with some difficulty, with good results.
关雅荻：电影行业整个产业链遭受的打击都是巨大的。
Di Guan: The whole industry chain in the film industry has been hit hard.
比如，全国目前6万多张银幕，一万多家影院，将会受到很大影响。
For example, more than 60,000 screens and more than 10,000 cinemas across the country will be affected.
而影视行业的制作拍摄，也几乎全部暂停。
And the film and television industry production filming, almost all the suspension.
我跟几个电影同行简单交流过，大家基本在家写剧本，或者做项目的前期策划。
I had a brief exchange with a few film colleagues, we basically write the script at home, or do the project planning in advance.
我用一年的时间在环球帆船航海比赛，想的就是写一个跟我生活经历有关的帆船题材的电影剧本。
I spent a year sailing around the world, thinking about writing a movie script about sailing related to my life experience.
李雪琴：一些制作很精良的自媒体可能就断更，做短视频的，这段时间的日活其实在哇哇涨。
Li Xueqin: Some well-made self-media may be cut off, do short video, this period of daily life in fact in wow.
对于我来说，影响不是很大，手里还有点存货一直没剪出来，唯一急的就是没有办法拍东西。
For me, the impact is not very big, there is still a bit of stock has not been cut out, the only urgent thing is that there is no way to shoot.
最大的影响可能是心态，在这么大的社会事件面前，我越来越觉得我的工作对社会没有什么价值，没有什么贡献，我越来越怀疑我工作的意义了。
Perhaps the biggest influence is the mentality, in the face of such a big social event, I increasingly feel that my work is of little value to society, little contribution, I increasingly doubt the significance of my work.
可能有人会说，在大家都很丧的社会情绪下，你拍点有意思的东西，让大家开心一下，这也是价值，但在这样大的动荡面前，我没法说服我自己。
One might say that in a society in which people are depressed, it's worth taking something interesting and making everyone happy, but in the face of all this turmoil, I can't convince myself.
张玮玮：我原计划是4月去北京排练，5月开始演出，目前看恐怕都要延期。
Mr. Zhang Weiwei: I originally planned to go to Beijing to rehearse in April and start performing in May.
音乐圈的人都在面对这类情况，就算疫情结束，现场演出也不会立刻恢复。
People in the music industry are facing this kind of situation, even if the epidemic is over, live performances will not immediately resume.
我经过2003年非典，那年北京的很多乐队解散，也有些演出场地倒闭。
I went through SARS in 2003, when many bands in Beijing broke up and some theaters went out of business.
我想这次也一样，对音乐行业的人会是一个考验。
I think this time, too, will be a test for the music industry.
对于我来说，问题倒是不大。
For me, the problem is small.
四处演出的生活很浮躁，在工作室里待一年挺好，毕竟创作才是最重要的。
Living around is fickle and staying in the studio for a year is good. After all, creativity is the most important thing.
金靖：没有什么影响，因为每年也都是过完年之后再过一段时间才开始工作，而且现在大家都待在家里。
Jing Jing: It doesn't matter, because every year is also a year after the end of a period of time before starting work, and now everyone stays at home.
好好在家锻炼身体，减肥。
Work out at home and lose weight.
可能过不久，和我妈一起练五禽戏。
Maybe after a while, I'll practice Wuyu opera with my mom.
王倦：所在行业的影响，要从两方面说，作为编剧来说，看上去没太大影响，毕竟平时也不用上班打卡，电话会议和微信就足够完成工作上的对外交流。
Wang Zhi: The impact of his industry, in two ways, as a screenwriter, it does not seem to have much impact, after all, normal business card printing, conference calls and micro-letters are enough to complete the external communication on the job.
可要从大环境来说，整个影视行业，影响很大，项目停滞，剧组解散，太多实质性工作无法继续，但这是天灾人祸，是计划外的事件，我们能做的，也就是坚持下去，希望春天尽早来临。
But from the general environment, the film industry as a whole, the impact, the project stagnation, the dissolution of the cast, too much substantive work can not continue, but this is a natural and man-made disaster, an unplanned event, we can do, that is, to persevere, hope for spring as soon as possible.
❻启发GQ报道：这段时间的经历带给你的启发是什么？班宇：用一位朋友的话说，疫情混淆或调校了我们关于对错的标准，也不是如此，只是让这个标准变得更清晰、更明确了。
What does the experience of this time inspire you? Banyu: In the words of one friend, the epidemic confuses or corrects our standards of right and wrong, nor does it, just to make it clearer and clearer.
而现在谈所谓的启发，为时尚早，我无法像写读后感那样去简单做以总结，它带来了什么，我们失去了什么，它告诉给我们什么，我们又要记住什么。
It is too early to sum up what it has brought, what we have lost, what it tells us, and what we remember, just as I can do with post-reading.
不是这样的。
It's not like that.
必须时刻校正内心的砝码，我们正在历史事件之中。
We must always correct our inner weights. We are in the midst of historical events.
朱一旦：作为老板来说，要提前准备好应急措施，应对突发状况；作为个人的话，就是得培养几个爱好，我本身是闲不住的人，一下待在家里，就只能找同事和朋友聊天，时不时去粉丝群里蹦哒两下，在微博给同事征婚等等。
Zhu once: As a boss, be prepared for a contingency and a contingency; as an individual, I have to cultivate a few hobbies. When I stay at home, I can only talk to my colleagues and friends, jump into fan clubs twice now and then, marry my colleagues on Weibo, etc.
我想他们的内心是崩溃的。
I think their hearts are crashing.
关雅荻：印证了我一直以来的想法：人随时可能会失去所拥有的一切，乃至生命，所以应该认真去活，去活好每一天，不要给自己留什么余地，尽可能全力以赴。
Di Guan Jia: I've always thought that people can lose everything they have, even their lives, so they should live seriously and live each day well.
我一直喜欢电影《黄金时代》里萧红说的那段台词：“我只愿蓬勃生活在此时此刻，无所谓去哪，无所谓见谁。
I have always liked the part of the film "Golden Age" Xiao Hong said the lines: "I just want to live a vigorous life at this moment, regardless of where, do not matter who.
那些我将要去的地方，都是我未曾谋面的故乡。
The places I will go to are home to places I have never met before.
以前是以前，现在是现在。
It used to be, now it is.
我不能选择怎么生，怎么死；但我能决定怎么爱，怎么活。
I cannot choose how to live and how to die; but I can decide how to love and how to live.
”这段时间让我更加坚信生活如是。
This time has reinforced my belief that life is so.
李雪琴：第一，没有人能教别人做人，你只能做到问心无愧；第二，“公正世界假设”，永远都是一个假设，我们能做的就是保持善良；第三，一定要存点钱，要保证自己的现金流。
Second, the "just world hypothesis" is always a supposition, all we can do is to be kind. And thirdly, we must save some money to ensure our cash flow.
张玮玮：20年内遇到两场瘟疫，而且是同样的地方再次跌倒，我想我们应该好好反省一下了。
Zhang Weiwei: In 20 years encountered two pestilence, and is the same place again fell, I think we should reflect on it.
那么多无辜的人死去，变成了冰冷的数字和百分比，要知道我们和她们是一样的，都曾站在命运的悬崖边，只是这次我们运气好而已。
So many innocent people have died, turned into cold numbers and percentages, knowing that we were on the precipice of fate just this time, just like them.
要珍惜生活，更要负起社会责任，不能让悲剧重演。
To cherish life, but also to take social responsibility, can not repeat the tragedy.
金靖：正式开始考虑以后退休的事情，会考虑重新念书或者其他感兴趣的事情。
Jin Jing: When you start thinking about retirement, you might consider going back to school or something else that interests you.
王倦：两件事希望自己记住，也希望大家都能记住，一个呢，别吃野生动物了，天知道啥后果。
Wang Zhi: Two things want to remember themselves, and I hope you can all remember, one, do not eat wild animals, God knows what the consequences.
第二个呢，经过这样的劫难，希望大家将来都能对医务工作者好一点。
Second, after such a disaster, I hope we can all be better to the medical workers in the future.
想想之前，医闹导致的恶性事件屡见不鲜，不高兴的时候给医务工作者送去危险，困难时期让医务工作者站在危险第一线，没这道理。
Think of before, the vicious incidents caused by the doctor, unhappy to send a danger to health workers, difficult times to put health workers in the front line, no reason.
别唱完赞歌，又把人扔在泥沼里踩一踩。
Don't sing the hymn, and throw someone in the mud to step on it.
❼疫情之外GQ报道：除了疫情，这段时间你最关心、思考最多的事情是什么？班宇：物价算吗？我每隔两三天，都会写一篇买菜日记，详细记录每一种的价格，总共花了多少钱等。
What are the things you most care about and think about during this time apart from the epidemic? Banyu: Prices? Every two or three days, I write a grocery diary detailing the price of each, how much money was spent, etc.
现在一棵白菜大概是二十几元，但也卖得很好，在东北上一代人的认知里，白菜能解毒。
Now a cabbage is about twenty dollars, but it also sells well. In the knowledge of a generation ago in the Northeast, cabbage can detoxify.
虽然也不知道我们中了什么毒，但来解一解，也不是不行。
Although we do not know what poison we have been poisoned, but to solve it is not impossible.
新闻里说，沈阳给武汉送去一百多吨大白菜，不知是不是也取此寓意。
Shenyang sent more than 100 tons of Chinese cabbage to Wuhan, the news said.
我的日记给几位朋友看过。
My diary was shown to some friends.
也没得到什么像样的反馈。
There was no decent feedback either.
一个朋友说道，怎么这个时候了，你还要买零食？另一个说，为什么不能买呢？为此，他俩吵了半天。
One friend said, Why do you want to buy snacks at this time? Another said, Why not? They argued for a long time.
我没说话。
I didn't say anything.
朱一旦：新一年的发展。
Zhu once: New year's development.
2020开局就是困难模式，转眼过去六分之一了。
The 2020 start was a difficult pattern, one sixth of the way back.
希望借这段时间大家能找到自己的定位，做好自己的职业规划，我们有了一个大众比较认可的账号，也希望我们能有更多超越朱一旦的账号。
Hope this time we can find their own location, do a good job planning, we have a more popular account, and hope we can have more than Zhu once account.
关雅荻：作为一个电影人的职责和使命感，也就是为什么要拍电影，应该拍什么样的电影。
Di Guan: My job and mission as a filmmaker, which is why we make movies, what kind of movies we should make.
相信克利伯环球帆船赛这一年会给我一个相对明确的思路或者答案。
I believe that this year's Clipper World Sailing Race will give me a relatively clear idea or answer.
我现在隐隐觉得已经摸到了一点边儿。
I now vaguely felt that I had touched the edge.
李雪琴：我最关心，思考最多的事情是工作。
Li Xueqin: The thing I care about most is work.
刚才我说，我对自己的工作产生了严重的自我怀疑，那我会想那接下来我要做什么能降低我的这种愧疚感。
I said a moment ago that I had developed a serious self-doubt about my work, and I wondered what I would do next to ease my guilt.
我一直在想有什么新的表达形式，把这种我个人感觉门槛比较低的活儿，能跟我所期待的给社会做点贡献的价值感捏起来。
I have been thinking of some new form of expression that would pinch the value of my low-threshold work as a contribution to society.
我一直非常非常喜欢黑色幽默，但是我做不好，功力不够，然后加上不够直白，受众可能比较窄。
I've always liked black humor very, very much, but I'm not good at it, I'm not good enough, and then I don't add it straight enough and the audience may be narrow.
还没有想好一个特别完整的出路，但还有另一种结局就是我不干了，转幕后。
I haven't figured out a particularly complete way out yet, but there's another way out: I quit and work behind the scenes.
张玮玮：最关心的还是自己的工作。
Zhang Weiwei: The most concerned or their own work.
2003年非典过后，北京很多演出场地关门，大批的独立乐队解散，我当时所在的两支乐队也遇到了同样的命运。
After SARS in 2003, many performances in Beijing were closed and a large number of independent bands dissolved. The same fate befell my two bands.
今年不知道有多少人将要度过艰难的日子，其中可能也包括你和我。
This year I don't know how many people are going through the tough times, including maybe you and me.
金靖：运动吧。
Jing Jing: Exercise.
那这么说我最关心和思考最多的应该是如何成为一个“美丽的坏女人”。
So what I care about and think about most is how to be a "beautiful bad woman."
王倦：都这大情况了，我还能关心啥啊？美国流感非洲蝗灾也都注意到了，可最终关注点还是回到疫情上来，2020，世界给我们考验，让我们重新审视自己的生活。
What can I care about? The American flu plague of locusts in Africa has also been noticed, but the final focus is on returning to the epidemic. In 2020, the world will test us and let us re-examine our lives.
上街闲逛，和人见面，吃饭，聊天，看看电影，亲人相聚，很想念这样的日子，当时觉得平常，现在想想，是多幸福。
Walking around, meeting people, eating, chatting, watching movies, getting together with relatives, missing such days, feeling ordinary then, thinking now, how happy it is.
还有就是，宣传里一直看到英雄两个字，其实我希望这场大事件中，英雄少一点，因为英雄往往需要自我牺牲，常常带着遗憾，我更希望他们就是医生，护士，是要痊愈的患者，是一个个好人，一个个普通人，劫波历尽，依旧回到普通人生，继续欢笑，不留伤痛。
Moreover, the word hero has always been seen in propaganda, in fact, I hope that there are fewer heroes in this big event, because heroes often need to sacrifice themselves, often with regret, I hope that they are doctors, nurses, patients to heal, good people, ordinary people, still back to ordinary life, continue to laugh, no pain.
❽变化GQ报道：这20多天前后，你自己有发生什么变化吗？班宇：没太大变化。
Change of Change GQ: Have you changed yourself in the last 20 days or so? Banyu: Not much.
疫情期间，我曾忧虑许多朋友，种种忧虑又因无计可施，变成一种对于过往的追缅。
During the outbreak, I worried about many of my friends, and all my worries became a kind of pursuit of the past.
这种回忆，往往也其映衬出某种未来性，从而将此刻的不确定与困惑再度加深。
Such memories, too, often reflect a certain futurity, thus deepening the uncertainty and confusion of the moment.
如一场战役，士兵持戟上阵，在拼杀时，想到的却是故乡风物，以及对于荣归后的憧憬。
If a battle, soldiers with halberds on the battle, in the fight, but think of the wind and things, as well as after the glory of the vision.
这样一来，此刻便更显模糊，我所刺向的，到底是什么呢？朱一旦：你们是想问我胖了没有吧！没有。
So now it's even more blurry, what exactly am I aiming at? Zhu once: Are you going to ask me if I'm fat? No.
关雅荻：主要是情绪上的改变。
Di Guan Jia: Mainly emotional change.
我性格一直比较大大咧咧，看起来是那种活得没心没肺的人。
I've always been more relaxed, and I look like the kind of person who lives thoughtlessly.
环球帆船赛对我来说，除了通过艰难、消耗巨大体力和精力的方式跨越海洋，也是对个人精神世界的拓展。
For me, besides crossing the ocean in a difficult, physically and energetically exhausting way, it is also an expansion of the personal spiritual world.
经历这次灾难后，心情会复杂很多，会更加觉得生命宝贵，人生下半场要更加聚焦在自己认为值得的人和事情上。
After this disaster, the mood will be more complex, will feel more valuable life, the second half of life to focus more on the people and things they think worth.
李雪琴：并不和疫情直接相关，我比二十多天前更加脆弱了，心理防线有点崩塌。
Li Xueqin: Not directly related to the epidemic, I am more vulnerable than more than 20 days ago, the psychological defense line a bit collapsed.
这段时间我发现，这个世界不讲理的人集中式涌现，比我想象的还要多，无缘无故地指责、羞辱、谩骂。
It was a time when I discovered that the world of unreasonable people came out in a concentrated fashion, more than I had imagined, blaming, humiliating and cursing for no reason.
最近我有点PTSD，就是手机一对着我，我就难受，我再高昂的情绪，一到要拍视频，我马上就down下来。
Recently I have a little PTSD, is a mobile phone to me, I feel uncomfortable, I am high mood, to make a video, I immediately down.
张玮玮：目前看最大的变化就是：发胖。
Zhang Weiwei: At present the biggest change is: fat.
金靖：好像瘦一点了。
Jing Jing: I think I'm getting thinner.
王倦：这20多天，我自己的变化，应该是胖了，我没量，但是心里清楚…………❾期盼GQ报道：疫情结束首先想做的一件事是什么？班宇：独自去海边待几天。
Wang tired: Over the past 20 days, my own changes, should be fat, I do not measure, but the heart is clear... Looking forward to GQ report: What is the first thing you want to do to end the epidemic? Banyu: Go to the beach alone for a few days.
只是待着，什么也不做。
Just stay here and do nothing.
朱一旦：出差，唉。
Zhu once: Business trip, alas.
关雅荻：我还在继续克利伯环球帆船赛，原计划如果顺利完赛，会在2020年8月8号前后返回比赛起点英国伦敦的圣凯瑟琳码头。
Di Guan: I'm still going on with the Clifford Universe sailing race, which is scheduled to return to St. Catherine's Pier in London, England, around August 8, 2020, if the race is successfully completed.
然后希望这次筹备的航海故事尽早启动。
Then I hope this sea story will start as soon as possible.
李雪琴：上班。
LI Xueqin: At work.
我最近在家里，一直在看各种东西，上编剧的网课，我想做点别的东西，有很多想法在我的备忘录里，我想上班把他们给落实了。
I've been at home lately, I've been reading all kinds of things, I've been taking screenwriter classes, I want to do something else, there are a lot of ideas in my memo, I want to work to make sure they are implemented.
张玮玮：我要带我妈去香格里拉，爬青山涉小溪，呼吸新鲜的空气，拥抱正常运转的世界。
Zhang Weiwei: I will take my mother to Shangri-La, climb green mountains across the stream, breathe fresh air, embrace the normal functioning of the world.
金靖：想去武汉，吃一碗热干面。
Jing Jing: Want to go to Wuhan, eat a bowl of hot dry noodles.
王倦：就想出去走走，见见朋友，不见也行，晒晒阳光，看看行人，如果工作上还债还顺利，可以考虑去其他城市走走，找个不熟悉的街道小巷溜达一圈，也就想想吧，工作还债是还不完的，我有这觉悟。
Wang Yu: Just go out for a walk, meet your friends, get some sun, see the passers-by, and if you're paying off your debts at work, consider going to another city and going for a stroll through unfamiliar streets and alleys.
最后希望大家都能度过这段时间，也许路上我们能遇见，即使不认识彼此，可我们都是共渡难关的战友，到时候点头微笑吧。
Finally hope that we can all pass this time, perhaps we can meet on the road, even if we do not know each other, but we are a difficult time together comrade-in-arms, the time to nod and smile.
疫情期间，在这个国家的各个角落，数不清的个人体验正在同步发生。
Countless personal experiences are occurring simultaneously in all corners of the country during the epidemic.
我们希望对这段特殊时期的个人经历加以收集和呈现，以此作为一种记录与见证。
We hope to collect and present personal experiences from this particular period as a record and a witness.
图片、文字、视频……任何介质、任何形式的个人记录，都可以发送给我们。
Pictures, text, videos... any medium, any form of personal records, can be sent to us.
您可以选择将你的故事或者想提供的线索发送邮件至gqreport@163.com，也可以点击阅读原文，在问卷中上传与填写您的答案。
You may choose to send your story or any clues you wish to provide to gqreport @ 163.com, or you may click on the original text to upload and fill in your answers in the questionnaire.
在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：康堤运营编辑：肖呱呱。
In the public backstage reply colored eggs, send you a color egg interview, writing: Kangdi operation editor: Xiao quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情生活同题问答：摘掉口罩相遇的那一天，请互相点头微笑吧。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情生活同题问答：摘掉口罩相遇的那一天，请互相点头微笑吧";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; question & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; the day you met her mask,
var msg_desc = "疫情后方，作为个体、作为公民的你我。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Behind the epidemic, you and me as individuals and citizens.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '被感染医生余昌平：我在阎王殿里走了一遭，又回来了',。
Yu Changping, the infected doctor: I've been in Yan Wang Temple for a while and returned to & apos; s service.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '武汉医院里的理发师们：我们要让每位医护人员都漂漂亮亮地回家',。
Hairdressers at Wuhan Hospital: We want every doctor at our service to be at home and at home.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '武汉快递小哥也会害怕的',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; & & # 45; & & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
