养蜂人上吊自杀，疫情中蜜蜂和蜂农的生死大考/* declared */。
Beekeepers hanging themselves, bees and bee farmers in the outbreak of life and death examination / * declared * /.
养蜂人上吊自杀，疫情中蜜蜂和蜂农的生死大考<br>。
Beekeepers hanged themselves, and the bees and bee farmers at & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
| title       = 养蜂人上吊自杀，疫情中蜜蜂和蜂农的生死大考。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
养蜂人上吊自杀，疫情中蜜蜂和蜂农的生死大考。
Beekeepers hanged themselves, bees and bee farmers in the outbreak of life and death test.
刘倩。
Clinique Liu.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：刘倩来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）养蜂人刘德成死了。
Author: Liu Qian Source: Business Person (ID: biz-leaders) beekeeper Liu Desheng died.
在他的蜜蜂因中毒、转场受阻大量死亡之后，于2月13日在云南上吊自杀。
He hanged himself in Yunnan on February 13 after his bees died of poisoning and a massive disruption of the field.
他的死将蜂农这一群体带入大众的视线，也让人们知道新冠肺炎疫情影响的还有这么一个行业，这样一群人。
His death has brought the swarm of beekeepers into the limelight, as well as an industry and a group of people known to be affected by the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
因抗疫需要，各地严格控制车辆和人员的流动，有的蜂农人蜂分离，不能及时喂食，不能进行春繁；有的蜂农眼看着蜜蜂中毒，不能及时转场；有的蜂农因蜜蜂无法采蜜，不得不进行人工饲养。
Due to the need to combat the disease, the movement of vehicles and people is strictly controlled in various places. Some bee-farmers are separated and cannot be fed in time for spring propagation.
这些都可能造成蜜蜂大量死亡，蜂群繁殖断代，饲养成本增加，影响蜂农一年的生产和收入。
All this could result in mass bee deaths, colony multiplication and increased feeding costs, affecting beekeepers' production and income for a year.
刘德成今年44岁，投资十几万元，养了176箱蜂，这几乎是他全部的家当。
Mr. Liu, 44, invested hundreds of thousands of yuan and raised 176 boxes of bees, almost all his possessions.
家中上有年迈的父母，下有一对上高中的儿女，养蜂是这个四川农村家庭收入的主要来源。
There are elderly parents, a pair of children in high school, beekeeping is the main source of income for rural families in Sichuan.
“蜜蜂死了，就走向绝路了。
"When the bees die, they're on their way.
”养蜂人李建军对“商业人物”说。
Li Jianjun, a beekeeper, told the Businessman.
他理解刘德成，“对我们蜂农来说，蜜蜂胜似一切”。
He understood Liu Decheng, "For us beekeepers, bees are better than everything."
李建军被困在了家乡奇台县，他的蜜蜂远在400公里之外的吐鲁番，过冬的饲料已经所剩无几，再不喂食，蜜蜂就要被饿死。
Li Jianjun was trapped in his hometown of Qitai, and his bees were 400 kilometers away in Turpan. There was very little food left for the winter. Without feeding they would starve to death.
他办下了出行证，却在到达吐鲁番之后无法下高速。
He issued a trip ticket but was unable to get off the highway after arriving in Turpan.
随后，李建军以低价卖掉了近一半的蜜蜂，剩下的蜜蜂还在生死边缘徘徊。
Later, Li sold nearly half of his bees for a song, and the rest of them hovered between life and death.
他快破产了。
He is going bankrupt.
2月15日，农业农村部办公厅、国家发改委办公厅、交通部办公厅联合印发《关于解决当前实际困难 加快养殖业复工复产的紧急通知》，要求“确保物资和产品运输畅通，将转场蜜蜂等纳入生活必需品应急运输保障范围，对一些县、乡、村封村封路、一概劝返等不恰当做法，要坚决予以纠正”。
On February 15, the General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Transport jointly issued the Emergency Notice on Resolving Current Practical Difficulties to Expedite the Reactivation of Livestock Production, calling for "ensuring smooth transportation of goods and products, including bee transshipment into the emergency transportation guarantee of daily necessities.
李建军希望“进村的最后一公里”能尽快打通。
Mr Li hopes the "last mile into the village" will be opened as soon as possible.
以下是李建军的口述节选：壹我叫李建军，是奇台县的养蜂人。
The following is an excerpt from Li Jianjun's oral excerpt: My name is Li Jianjun, a beekeeper in Qitai County.
去年11月，我把蜜蜂拉到吐鲁番过冬，准备在今年2月5日到15日之间进行春繁。
Last November, I took the bees to Turpan for the winter, preparing for spring propagation between February 5 and 15 this year.
春节前我回到奇台县，原本打算过完年再去吐鲁番，疫情原因去不了，我的蜜蜂没有人喂食，饲料消耗的所剩无几，面临死亡。
Before the Spring Festival, I returned to Qitai County. I had planned to go to Turpan after the New Year.
每年11月，我都要把蜜蜂拉到南疆的吐鲁番过冬，那里温度适宜。
Every November, I would take the bees to Turpan in the southern border for the winter, where the temperature was good.
来年2月初，开始搞春繁，给蜜蜂补充饲料，让它们哺育后代。
In early February of next year, they began to multiply, feeding the bees and feeding them to their offspring.
繁殖得晚可能造成蜂群新老交替跟不上、脱节，影响下一年的生产。
Late breeding can cause colonies to keep pace with each other and become disjointed, affecting production the following year.
2月，原本是蜜蜂春繁的时节冬天主要靠人工喂白糖，我在去年11月喂的白糖，能保持它们吃到今年1月底到2月中旬左右。
The sugar I fed last November, which was supposed to be the spring season for bees, was largely artificially fed in winter, and the sugar I fed in November kept them alive until around the end of January and the middle of February.
管蜜蜂就像管婴儿一样，一个箱子里有多少蜂，它们一天吃多少，我们专业养蜂的都可以衡量出来，知道要喂多少糖，喂多饱，这些糖能维持它的生命到什么时候。
Bees are like babies: how many bees are in a box, how much they eat in a day, what we professional beekeepers can measure, how much sugar to feed, how full it is, how long it will last.
现在它们的糖已经消耗得所剩无几了。
Now they have run out of sugar.
2月10日，奇台县农业农村局和防疫防控办协商后给我开了个证明，我11日凌晨六点开车去吐鲁番，晚上12点左右到的，吐鲁番不让进。
On February 10, Chitai County Agricultural and Rural Bureau and epidemic prevention and control office after consultation with me issued a certificate, I drove to Turpan at 6 a.m. 11, around 12 p.m., Turpan refused to enter.
我又和奇台防疫防控办取得了联系，双方也没有沟通成功。
I also and Qitai epidemic prevention and control office contact, the two sides did not communicate successfully.
12日晚上12点，我又回到了奇台，下高速的时候，防疫防控办的人直接把我接到宾馆，要求隔离14天。
At 12: 00 pm on the 12th, I returned to Qitai, down the highway, the CIP people directly to my hotel, asked for 14 days of isolation.
我本来想着到吐鲁番去隔离，14天后出来直接去蜂场，我的蜜蜂就算死，最多死掉一半，我还有重新养蜜蜂的机会。
I was thinking of going to Turpan for quarantine, coming out 14 days later and going straight to the hive, my bee would die, half dead at most, and my chances of getting back on the bees.
现在我在奇台县隔离14天，即使之后交通放开，我在吐鲁番还要隔离14天，蜜蜂就全军覆没了。
Now I've been quarantined in Qitai County for 14 days, and even after traffic was released, I still have 14 days of isolation in Turpan, and the bees will be completely destroyed.
看不到希望了。
There is no hope.
17号我卖掉了170箱蜜蜂，剩下的327箱也要陆续卖掉，再不卖它们就有生命危险了，我只能忍痛割爱。
I sold 170 cases of bees on the 17th, and the remaining 327 cartons are going to be sold in succession. If I don't sell them, my life will be in danger.
往年一箱蜂能卖五六百块钱，现在这种情况压价到了二百块钱，亏了好多，好心疼。
In previous years, a box of bees can sell five to six hundred dollars, now this situation reduced the price to 200 dollars, a lot of losses, good heartache.
但多少能收回一点成本，而且我知道这样卖给人家，蜜蜂是活着的，痛苦能减轻一点。
But it costs a little more or less, and I know that by selling it this way, bees are alive and the pain is a little less painful.
170箱的蜜蜂被李建军低价卖掉在我们养蜂人心里，蜜蜂比孩子都重要。
One hundred and seventy boxes of bees have been sold by Li Jianjun at a lower price. Bees are more important to us beekeepers than to children.
贰有个词形容养蜂人，叫追花夺蜜，我们一年到头追着花期跑。
Second, there is a word for beekeepers, called the pursuit of honey flowers, we chase flowers throughout the year run.
我们就在省内转场。
We'll just switch places in the province.
一月底、二月初在吐鲁番繁殖蜂群，到3月17日，杏花就开了；采完吐鲁番的杏花，转场去库尔勒，给香梨授粉；5月底、6月初转回奇台，拉到天山上去繁殖；20多天后，再到奇台县的平原地带采葫芦花、向日葵花、还有打瓜花，可以采到九月底；回家待上二十多天后给蜜蜂除蜂螨、合群；十月底、十一月初拉到吐鲁番喂糖，准备过冬。
At the end of January and the beginning of February, the apricot blossom bloomed in Turpan; on March 17, the apricot flowers were picked and turned to Kuller to pollinate the pears.
养蜂人居无定所，因为蜜源地都在偏僻的农村或者大山深处，我们只能住帐篷，每次转场都要带着全部家当——帐篷、简易床、摩托车、油盐米面、锅碗瓢盆等。
Beekeepers live in no certain places because the honey fields are in remote villages or deep mountains. We can only live in tents and take with us everything we need when we change fields - tents, bunk beds, motorcycles, oily salted rice noodles, pots and pans, etc.
我一般骑摩托车去附近的农家取水，给他们一两公斤蜂蜜，换来十来天的水。
I usually go to a nearby farm on a motorcycle to get water, give them a kilogram of honey, in exchange for a dozen days of water.
电用摩托车的电瓶，可以给手机充个电，也有条件好的，买太阳能板和蓄电瓶，可以照明、充电，还能看电视。
Electric motorcycle battery, can give mobile phone charge, also have condition good, buy solar panel and battery, can illuminate, recharge, still can watch TV.
冷的时候，白天捡点柴火，晚上加个火，条件好的买一点煤，晚上架个炉子，热就没办法了，走哪都热。
When it is cold, pick up some firewood during the day, add a fire in the evening, buy some coal if conditions are good, build a stove at night, there is no way to heat, go everywhere hot.
养蜂需要一年四季转场，颇为辛苦我每年住帐篷的时间至少八个月，条件不是一般的差，冬冷夏热的，刮风下雨就是受罪。
I live in a tent for at least eight months a year. Conditions are not so bad. It's cold, hot in winter, and windy and rainy.
帐篷就搭在蜂箱边上，我看不到蜜蜂心里不踏实，也是为了方便管理。
The tent was on the edge of the hive, and I could not see that the bees were unsettled, for management's sake.
一早起来先脱花粉，中午开始取蜜，傍晚天快黑的时候再取蜂王浆，养蜜蜂真是太辛苦了，我天天坐在蜂箱上面弯腰工作，落下了腰疼的毛病。
Early in the morning to remove pollen, at noon to start honey, late evening when the time to get royal jelly, bees are really hard, I sit on the beehive every day bending over the work, fell back pain.
我们在一个地方停留的时间视花期而定，向日葵可以开20天，油菜花最多就是10天，一个花期赶完了，就要把蜂箱装车去赶另一个花期。
We stay in one place depending on the flowering time, the sunflower can open for 20 days, rapeseed is a maximum of 10 days, a flowering period, we have to load the beehive to catch another flowering period.
装车都得自己来，别人装不了，怕被蛰，一个蜂箱轻的时候50斤，重的时候100斤，我们用扁担挑，一挑一二百斤，我有500箱蜜蜂，就要运250趟，特别辛苦。
When the weight of a beehive is 50 kg, and when it weighs 100 kg, we pick it up with a pole, one or two hundred catties. I have 500 cases of bees and I have to make 250 journeys, which is really hard work.
从库尔勒到奇台，八百多公里路，必须一夜跑完，一般都是太阳下山的时候出发，第二天太阳出来前就要卸车，最迟不能超过早晨八九点，再晚蜜蜂就会被热死。
From Kuller to Qitai, more than 800 kilometres must be run overnight, usually when the sun sets, the next day before the sun to unload the car, at the latest no later than eight or nine in the morning, and then the bees will be hot to death.
这简直无法想象，一夜跑下来身体都是透支的，可以说是用生命在干。
This is almost unthinkable, the body is overdrawn after a night run down, can be said to use life in the dry.
为了生存也没有办法，我们一家老小都要靠蜜蜂生活。
In order to survive there is no other way, we have to live on bees.
养蜂行业现在面临老龄化问题，年轻人没人愿意养，一是条件恶劣，二是生活没有保障，靠天吃饭。
The beekeeping industry is now faced with an ageing population, with no one willing to support young people.
我14岁开始跟我父亲养蜜蜂，已经30年了，大部分时间都是跟蜜蜂在一起，我对它们真的是有感情。
I started raising bees with my father at the age of 14. It's been 30 years and I've spent most of my time with bees, and I really have feelings for them.
叁从吐鲁番回来后，我在宾馆里隔离。
After my return from Turpan, I was quarantined in the hotel.
500箱蜜蜂，上千万张嘴等着吃糖，饲料供应不上，就要活活饿死了。
Five hundred cases of bees, tens of millions of mouths waiting for sugar, feed not available, will starve to death.
想起蜜蜂一箱一箱地死，我的眼泪都掉下来了。
My tears came down from my eyes as I thought of the boxes of bees dying.
云南那个蜂农，因为转不过来场，最后上吊自杀了。
The beekeeper in Yunnan, unable to turn around, finally hanged himself.
对我们蜂农来说，蜜蜂胜似一切，蜜蜂死了，就走向绝路。
For us beekeepers, bees are better than everything. When bees die, they die.
现在我们蜂农面临的主要问题是，封村、封路，有的人到不了蜂场，没法喂食，没法繁殖；有的花期过了不能及时转场，农户开始给作物打农药了，就会造成大量蜜蜂中毒死亡；还有的转不了场，蜜蜂不能采蜜，必须投入大量资金买白糖，人工饲养。
Now the main problem facing our beekeepers is that some people can not reach the hive, feeding and breeding; some can not change the plant after the flowering period, the farmers will start to pesticide crops, will cause a large number of bees poisoning death; others can not turn, bees can not harvest honey, must invest a large amount of money to buy sugar, artificial breeding.
这会引起一系列的问题，蜜蜂饲料供给不足，就会面临死亡，如果不能及时繁殖，更是全军覆没，连蜂种都留不下。
This can lead to a series of problems, bee feed supply is insufficient, will face death, if not timely reproduction, is all over the military, even the bee species can not stay.
养蜂人破产、失业，整个养蜂行业都危险了，甚至会造成2020年农作物减产。
Beekeepers go bankrupt, jobless, and the entire beekeeping industry is in danger, even cutting crop yields by 2020.
很多植物都需要蜜蜂授粉，自然授粉可以提高发芽率，提高产量，提高品质，蜜蜂给人类创造的价值是无法估量的，还养活了我们几十万蜂农，给国家农业也带来了经济收入。
Many plants need pollination by bees. Natural pollination improves germination, yields and quality. The value that bees create for humans is incalculable. It also feeds hundreds of thousands of our beekeepers and generates economic income for our agriculture.
在疫情面前，封路、封村我都理解，只是希望有关部门对我们这个特殊行业能特殊对待。
In the face of the epidemic, sealing the road, sealing the village I understand, just hope that the relevant departments to our special industry can be special treatment.
国家已经出台文件要求保障蜜蜂转场的运输，但很多地方需要村长去高速口接，蜂箱运输成本高、装卸麻烦，我们没有确切的把握也不敢动。
Documents have been issued to secure the transportation of bees from one place to another, but in many places village chiefs have to go to high-speed ports, where the cost of transporting beehives is high and handling is troublesome.
养蜂是个特殊的行业，蜂群必须由专业的人管理。
Bee farming is a special industry, and colonies must be managed by professional people.
喂食多少要根据蜂群的大小和箱子里面的温度计算，还有个蜇人的问题，所以我的蜜蜂都要饿死了，别人也不能代喂。
How much to feed depends on the size of the hive and the temperature inside, and a sting problem, so my bees starve to death and no one else can feed them.
我去年11月喂完糖后，就把蜂王用一个网笼关起来，这样它冬天不会下崽，可以减少糖饲料的消耗。
After I fed the sugar last November, I caged the queen bee in a net so that she would not give up in the winter and cut down on sugar feed consumption.
我应该在1月20日到2月15日之间，把每个箱子里的蜂王放出来，还要除蜂螨，用那种无残留的杀螨剂喷到蜜蜂的背上，杀掉它们身上的寄生虫才能繁殖。
I should have released the queen bee from each box between January 20 and February 15, and sprayed the bee's back with the harmless acaricide that killed the parasites that grew on them.
蜜蜂的繁殖时间一环套一环，春天如果繁殖得早、繁殖得好，花开的时间蜜蜂就可以工作了。
Bees breed in a ring of time, and if they reproduce early and reproduce well in spring, the bees are ready to work when they are in bloom.
蜜蜂从出生到工作需要一个月的时间，而且生命特别脆弱，每次转场后蜂群都有损失，需要一个星期才能缓过来，所以需要提前到场准备。
Bees take a month from birth to work, and their lives are particularly fragile. Every time they change course, the swarm loses and takes a week to recover, so they need to be prepared in advance.
老话不是说，一年之计在于春，春天繁殖计划没做好，一年都不顺。
The old saying is, a year in the spring, the spring breeding plan did not do well, a year did not go well.
今年我的损失无法估计，前期喂白糖已经花了15000元，还有从奇台到吐鲁番的运输费3000元，这500箱蜜蜂按照正常价格每箱600块算的话，差不多值30万，如果全部去繁殖的话，可以繁殖到2000多箱，产值估计会超过百万。
I can't estimate my losses this year. I've already spent 15,000 yuan on sugar and 3,000 yuan on transportation from Qitai to Turpan. The 500 cases of bees, at 600 yuan a case at normal prices, are worth almost 300,000. If they are reproduced, they can breed to over 2,000 cases, with an estimated output value of over one million.
没卖出的蜜蜂已经成箱地死亡了，我还在苦苦等待希望，起码让我可以留下些蜂种。
The unsold bees have been crated to death, and I'm still waiting for hope, at least so that I can keep some bees.
*文中图片为受访者提供推荐阅读    严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
