毕淑敏：生死之外，人生都是小事。
Bi Shumin: Life is a small thing except life and death.
张英。
Zhang Ying.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
我很愿意投身到和来访者一道走过对他来说特别艰难的心理路程。
I'd love to go through a particularly difficult psychological journey with a visitor.
要知道，陪伴是有力量的，这个力量有时会很大。
You know, companionship is powerful, and sometimes it can be very powerful.
当一个人不再觉得孤独和恐惧时，自己便会找到方向和出口。
When one no longer feels lonely and afraid, one finds one's way and one's exit.
文 | 张　英整个春节，毕淑敏都是在北京南城的家里度过的。
Throughout the Spring Festival, Ms Bi spent at home in Beijing's southern city.
这个春节，她一直在写长篇小说，所以连央视的春晚都没看完，就早早睡了。
This Spring Festival, she has been writing novels, so even CCTV Chunwan did not see the end of the early sleep.
一是保持好的身体状态，好积攒精力用在创作上，二是让自己有好的睡眠，保持对身体对病毒的免疫力和抵抗力。
One is to maintain a good physical state, so as to save energy for creative, the other is to let themselves have a good sleep, to maintain the body against the virus and resistance.
我在采访毕淑敏的几个小时里，她家里的门铃不断响起，不同的快递员送来了蔬菜瓜果，和她在网上购买的各种日用生活品。
Within hours of my interview with Bi Shumin, the doorbell kept ringing at her home, and different couriers delivered vegetables and fruits and all the daily necessities she bought online.
平时的日常生活外出，都尽量减免，以节省出时间，花在读书写作上。
In ordinary daily life outside, all try to reduce or reduce, in order to save time, spend on reading and writing.
毕淑敏70多岁了，毕淑敏觉得，时间对自己最宝贵。
Bi Shumin is in her 70s, and Bi Shumin thinks time is precious to her.
疫情时期，她没出过门。
She didn't go out during the outbreak.
大部分时间，她都憋在家里，写她的长篇小说，偶尔以医生和作家身份，接受少量的媒体采访。
Most of the time, she would stay at home, write her novels and occasionally give small media interviews as a doctor and writer.
2003年，北京“非典”出现，在那场席卷全国的疫情中，有医学和写作双重背景的毕淑敏，被中国作协点名邀请，和何建明、王宏甲等作家组成采访团，深入北京佑安医院、小汤山医院等抗击“非典”前线；采访了许多医生护士、病人和家属，甚至火葬场的工人；走访了军事医学科学院等专业医学科研机构，还到北京市委、国家气象局、外交部采访。
In 2003, during the SARS epidemic in Beijing, Bi Shumin, with a dual medical and writing background, was invited by the Chinese Society to conduct a press conference with writers like He Jianming and Wang Hong-jia to fight SARS.
最后，毕淑敏花了八年时间，写成了长篇小说《花冠病毒》，2012年图书出版。
In the end, it took Bi Shumin eight years to write the novel The Corolla Virus, which was published in 2012.
这个长篇小说的内容是这样的：一个上千万人口的大城市突发瘟疫，一种名为“花冠病毒”的新型病毒的爆发，让整个城市运转停滞，拥有心理学背景的女作家罗纬芝临危受命，成为抗毒一线的采访组成员。
The story goes like this: A plague of tens of millions of people in a big city, the outbreak of a new virus called the Corolla Virus, has brought the city to a standstill, and psychology-backed woman writer Luo Weizhi is in danger of becoming a member of an anti-drug front-line interview.
在抗疫小组内，罗纬芝深入了解了普通人面对恐慌和毁灭时的心理困境。
Within the anti-epidemic team, Luo gained insight into the psychological plight of ordinary people in the face of panic and destruction.
无意中，罗身染瘟疫，命悬一线，却又不可思议地获救，成为唯一的幸存者。
Unwittingly, Luo infected with the plague, hanging a thread of life, but miraculously rescued, become the only survivors.
事件发展不断失控，官方急救药物却迟迟研发不出，然后城市封锁、民众出逃、抢购成风……人类对病毒的挑战进行了英勇的反击与抗争，人该如何构建内在的心理能量，战胜强大的对手？毕淑敏的《花冠病毒》2020年1月，武汉的新冠肺炎疫情爆发，随着春节的来临，人口多流动，感染迅速蔓延到全国。
Events spiraled out of control, official emergency drugs were not developed, and then the city blockaded, people fled, and snapped up the epidemic... How can man build up his inner mental energy to defeat a powerful adversary?
敏感的新闻记者们想起了毕淑敏的《花冠病毒》。
Sensitive journalists recall Bi Shumin's The Corolla Virus.
这本书里出现的封城隔离疫情、市民超市抢购蔬菜水果和生活用品的描写，和今天的现实生活，出现了惊人的“重复”。
The book's depiction of a closed city, a supermarket rush to buy vegetables and fruits and daily necessities, and today's reality shows a surprising "repeat."
有记者觉得这是作家的伟大，称她是预言家。
Some reporters think this is the great writer, calling her a prophet.
毕淑敏的回答是，小说中有她对2003年北京“非典”时期的生活场景观察，但小说故事里的大部分内容，则是出自想象和虚构。
Ms Bi's answer is that she looks at the scenes of life during the SARS period in Beijing in 2003, but much of the story is imaginative and fictional.
“写《花冠病毒》，就是害怕瘟疫的再次袭来。
"To write Corolla Virus is to be afraid of another plague.
上一次已经很明确地锁定了野生动物是病毒的宿主，SARS以后，北京不让买卖野生动物，市内取缔宰杀活禽，一直坚持到现在。
Since SARS, Beijing has banned the sale of wild animals and the slaughter of live poultry in the city.
广州应该也好了一些，起码果子狸不吃了吧。
Guangzhou should be a little better, at least the beaver doesn't eat it.
但是武汉和其它有些地方的人们，为什么不吸取教训呢？继续吃野生动物，重蹈覆辙，多么愚昧和危险！”毕竟做过内科医生、心理医生，凭着职业出身的敏感，毕淑敏很关注疫情的发展。
However, Wuhan and some other places, why not learn lessons? Continue to eat wild animals, how foolish and dangerous! "After all, as a physician, psychiatrist, with the sensitivity of professional origin, Bi Shumin is very concerned about the development of the epidemic.
“以我当专业医生的经验判断，这种新型的传染病毒，现在还没有特效药能够彻底治愈，医药开发需要一个过程。
"Judging from my experience as a professional physician, there is no definitive cure for this new type of infectious disease, and the development of medicine requires a process.
我经历过非典，这种不明原因的传染病毒，不能寄希望于速战速决，要有打持久战的准备。
I have experienced SARS, an unexplained infectious disease. I can't hope for a quick fix. I need to be prepared for a protracted war.
”毕淑敏很赞成各地政府封城闭村隔离的举措，对隔离病毒相互传染行之有效。
Bi Shumin is in favor of government closures around the country, which has proved effective in isolating viruses from one another.
“这一次新冠病毒的传播性特别强，感染太快了。
"This time the new crown virus is particularly contagious and it is spreading too fast.
封城这个举措真是壮士断腕，很大决心，非常必要。
The move to seal the city was a masterstroke, a great determination and a necessity.
不然更多的人会感染，出现更多的重症病人。
Otherwise more people will get infected and more serious patients will appear.
在那些不具备优质医疗设备和诊治条件的地方，病死率会大幅升高。
Where quality medical equipment and care are not available, mortality rates can rise significantly.
我非常赞同这个决定。
I strongly endorse that decision.
”和很多作家的经历不同，毕淑敏是一位充满了传奇色彩的作家。
Unlike many writers, Bi Shumin is a legendary writer.
她是内科医生，北京作协副主席，也是国家执业的注册心理咨询师。
She is a physician, vice-president of the Beijing Association and a registered counselor in national practice.
1969年，她16岁入伍，在西藏阿里高原部队当兵11年，历任卫生员、军医等，挽救过无数人的生命。
She was recruited into the army at the age of 16 in 1969 and served as a soldier on the Ali Plateau in Tibet for 11 years.
从事医学工作20年后，毕淑敏开始文学写作，著有《毕淑敏文集》十二卷。
After 20 years of medical work, Bi Shumin began to write literature, and she wrote twelve volumes of Bi Shumin's Essays.
她的文学写作，大气厚重，关注时代和现实社会，长篇小说《红处方》《血玲珑》《拯救乳房》《女心理师》《鲜花手术》等作品产生强烈社会影响，作品具有浓重的人文关怀和社会责任感。
Her literary writing, heavy atmosphere, attention to the times and the real world, the novel "Red Prescription," "Save the Breast," "Women Psychologist" and "Flower surgery," and other works have a strong social impact, with a strong sense of humanistic care and social responsibility.
作家王蒙这样评价毕淑敏的出现：“她确实是一个真正的医生，好医生，她是文学界的白衣天使。
Author Wang Meng comments on the emergence of Bi Shumin: "She is indeed a real doctor, a good doctor, she is the white angel of literature.
昆仑山上当兵的经历，医生的身份与心术，加上自幼大大的良民的自觉，使她成为文学圈内的一个新起的、别有特色的、新鲜与健康的因子。
Her experience as a soldier in Kunlun Mountain, the identity and skill of a doctor, and her consciousness of being a good citizen since childhood have made her a new, distinctive, fresh and healthy factor in literature.
我真的不知道世界上还有这样规规矩矩的作家与文学之路。
I really did not know that there is such a formal way of writers and literature.
毕淑敏的正常、善意、祥和、冷静乃至循规蹈矩，难能可贵。
Bi Shumin's normal, kind, peaceful, calm and even obedient, rare.
她写了像《昆仑殇》这样严峻的、撼人心魄的事件，仍然保持着对于每一个当事人与责任者的善意与公平。
She wrote such a serious, shocking event as "Kunlun War," still maintaining the goodwill and fairness to every party and duty-bearer.
她正视死亡与血污，下笔常常令人战栗，如《紫色人形》《预约死亡》，但主旨仍然平实和悦，她是要她的读者更好地活下去、爱下去、工作下去。
She looked at death and blood, and wrote often with trepidation, like "The Purple Man" and "Appointment to Die," but the gist was still plain and pleasant, and she wanted her readers to live, love, and work better.
”1998年，毕淑敏攻读了北师大心理学博士课程，成为国家注册的心理咨询师，经验丰富的她开始直接面对社会发展过程中的一线病人，还继续通过一系列心理学病理案例非虚构写作，公开出版物和演讲，治病救人。
In 1998, Ms. Bi enrolled as a state-registered counselor in psychology at Beijing Normal University, where she began to work directly with front-line patients in social development and continued to work on nonfiction through a series of psychopathological cases, public publications and speeches to save lives.
在开设诊所4年以后，她关闭了自己的诊所，放弃了优厚的经济收入，回到家里继续写小说，出版了一系列以心理医生为背景，与心理学知识治病救人的小说作品。
Four years after opening the clinic, she closed her clinic, gave up her lucrative income, returned home to continue writing novels, and published a series of stories based on the psychologist's background and psychological knowledge to save lives.
在我眼里，她是一位温暖有爱的作家、悲天悯人的医生，秉承了鲁迅的文学传统，行动中的理想主义者，以笔为旗，身体力行，用文学、医学，治病救人，在夜晚黑暗里，用爱与希望点亮了生命的灯。
In my eyes, she is a warm and loving writer, a compassionate doctor, adhering to Lu Xun's literary tradition, the idealist in action, with the pen as the banner, practice, with literature, medicine, save people, in the dark at night, with love and hope lit up the lamp of life.
对当下的疫情，她呼吁人们呆在家里，精神镇定，不要恐慌，坚持正常的生活。
She appealed to people to stay at home, calm down, not panic, and stick to a normal life.
“我听到一线报道说，信心比药物更重要。
"I've heard first-line reports that confidence is more important than drugs.
我很赞同这种说法。
I quite agree with that statement.
防疫中不要放弃信念，心理不被摧毁，坚持健康的生活；一旦染病，更是不放弃、不灰心，调动最大的抵抗力与病魔抗争，争取康复。
Do not give up faith in immunization, psychological not destroyed, adhere to a healthy life; once infected, but also do not give up, do not lose heart, mobilize the greatest resistance to the disease and fight for recovery.
”痛定思痛，她也观察到，和当年的“非典肺炎”一样，这一次的“新型冠状肺炎”，都与中国人吃野生动物有关。
She also observed that, like SARS, this time the "new coronary pneumonia" had something to do with Chinese eating wild animals.
人类一定要牢记历史的教训，有些人若不思改变，只能靠强力的法制约束。
Human beings must bear in mind the lessons of history. If some people do not want to change, they can only rely on the rule of law.
我们必须制定法律，制止继续吃野生动物的行为，保证国家和社会的安全。
We must make laws to stop the continued eating of wild animals and ensure the safety of the country and society.
为什么读心理学博士张英：你为什么对心理学感兴趣？毕淑敏：我想，首先是我对“人”有兴趣。
Why Read Psychology Doctor Zhang Ying: Why are you interested in psychology? Bi Shumin: First of all, I think, I am interested in people.
很多人的职业选择，都与兴趣爱好有关，比如对大自然有兴趣，或者对历史、科学某一方面有兴趣，最后成了其职业。
Many people's career choices have something to do with hobbies, such as an interest in nature, or an interest in history, science, and finally a career.
真的，对活生生的人，我特别感兴趣。
Really, I'm particularly interested in real people.
这可能跟我以前当医生的经历有关，我学了人体生理解剖，也在临床看过很多的死亡。
It may have something to do with my previous experience as a doctor. I studied human physiology, and I've seen many deaths clinically.
这世界上，有很多人患病，也有很多健康的人。
There are many sick people and many healthy people in the world.
人在生理的结构上，其实是大同小异的。
In the physical structure of human, is in fact the same little difference.
可是在这一个看起来相同的躯壳里面，却为什么有如此不一样的灵魂？他们的行动，为什么会那样千变万化？很多人以为，我从医学到写作，是一个很大的跨度，然后再去研究心理学，也是一个很大的跨度。
But why is there such a different soul in this same shell? Why are their actions so varied? Many people think that I am a great span from medicine to writing, and then to study psychology.
可是从我个人来讲，我的研究对象都是人。
Personally, though, my subjects are people.
医生要研究人体，文学被称为“人学”，作家里头，可能有人写动物、有人写植物，可不管你写什么，你都是从人的感受出发，从人的角度去体验、观看这个世界的。
In a writer, you may write about animals or plants, but whatever you write about, you experience and see the world from a human perspective.
心理学是一门科学。
Psychology is a science.
简言之，就是你心里想的是什么，和你做的是什么，这样一门科学，很有意思。
In short, it's interesting to know what's on your mind and what you're doing, a science like that.
在这个过程里，我觉得很多作者把握世界、理解世界、认识世界，是靠他自己的眼光。
In this process, I think that many writers grasp the world, understand the world, know the world, is to rely on his own vision.
那我希望在自己的眼光以外，还有一个更科学的眼光，把两者结合起来。
Then I hope that beyond my own eyes, there is a more scientific vision, the combination of the two.
张英：你学习心理学的机缘是什么呢？毕淑敏:我听过一些心理学的课，我觉得没有特别好的老师。
Zhang Ying: What's the chance for you to study psychology? Bi Shumin: I've attended some psychology classes and I don't think there are particularly good teachers.
后朋友告诉我，香港中文大学的林梦平教授，会到北京师范大学心理系来带两年的硕士研究生，学问很好。
My late friend told me that Professor Lin Mengping of the Chinese University of Hong Kong would come to Beijing Normal University for a two-year master's degree in psychology.
我就特别想去学，便交了学费，完全是自费。
I especially wanted to go to school, so I paid my tuition fees, which were completely self-funded.
我跟家里人打了招呼，说我有可能上着上着就不上了，咱们学费就退不回来了，算白交了。
I said to my family, that I may not be able to go on board, we can not return the tuition fees, calculate the money.
后来我先生说，你实在愿意，不用考虑学费的事情，好好学。
Then my husband said that you really want to, do not consider the matter of tuition fees, study hard.
如果最后学得没意思，也可以不去。
If it turns out to be boring, you can also skip it.
我就这样去读了心理学硕士。
So I went to my Masters in Psychology.
我们班上，有已经是心理系博士毕业、又重新来学的，也有从学校本科直接升上来读硕士的年轻学生。
In our class, there are students who have graduated from the Department of Psychology and re-entered the program, and there are also young students who have been promoted directly from undergraduate to master's degree.
我是最特别的，不为择业，不为著书，也不为在那个学科打一番天地，我只是很好奇，很想去学习。
I am the most special, not to choose a career, not to write books, not to fight in that discipline, I am just curious, very eager to learn.
读下来，帮助还是很大的。
Reading it down, it's still a big help.
张英：47岁重新回校园当学生，感受如何？毕淑敏:我去了以后，刚开始是有点狼狈的。
Zhang Ying: What was it like to be a student back on campus at the age of 47? Bi Shumin: After I went there, it was a bit awkward at first.
因为是心理学的硕士学位班，人家都是心理学的本科生，都是学过心理学的。
Because it is a master's degree in psychology, people are all undergraduates of psychology, have learned psychology.
我记得刚开始，前几堂课听得莫名其妙，老师讲到一个心理学特定词汇的时候，完全不知道是什么意思。
I remember at the beginning, the first few classes heard baffling, the teacher said a particular psychological vocabulary, completely do not know what it means.
我只能当时记下来，晚上回来查呀。
I can only write it down and check it out at night.
不过学到后来，就慢慢可以钻进去一点了。
But after learning, I was able to drill in a little bit.
后来隔了一段时间，林老师有一天跟我说，毕淑敏，你知不知道已经有同学嫉妒你。
After a while, Mr. Lin told me one day, Bi Shumin, do you know that there have been students jealous of you.
我说我那么差，年纪大，然后又没有心理学的本科基础，也没有什么实践的经验，我觉得我有理由成为您最坏的学生。
I said I was so bad, old, and then no undergraduate psychology, no practical experience, I feel I have reason to be your worst student.
他们为何嫉妒我？原来，同学们说，毕淑敏比较神奇，怎么可以这么快入门？我们老师回答，毕淑敏以前做生理上的医生，后来又做文学家，这些都是以研究人为对象的，所以她来学心理学，起点不低，能融汇贯通，迅速把心理学的那些专业知识补上。
My teacher replied that Bi Shumin, a former physiologist and later a writer, was a researcher, so she took psychology as a starting point and quickly filled in the expertise of psychology.
举个例子，比如老师会放一段真实的案例录音。
For example, the teacher will play a true recording of the case.
一个女生妈妈过世了，她特别难过，哭得一把鼻涕一把泪，然后心理医生对她有一些疏导，无效，女生情绪激烈，不能平静。
A female mother died, she was particularly sad, crying a snot tears, and then the psychiatrist to her some diversion, ineffective, girls emotional, not calm.
老师问我们，从这个对话里听出了什么？有同学说，她悲伤，因为她的母亲去世了。
The teacher asked us what we heard from the conversation.One student said she was sad because her mother had died.
还有同学从她的哭泣里，听到她最后没有见到母亲一面产生的那种极度的惋惜。
There were students from her tears, heard her mother did not see the end of the side of the extreme regret.
还有同学说，她因为对母亲有很多感激的心情，永远不会有机会去倾诉，是那种强烈的哀伤加上自责。
Others said that because she has a lot of gratitude to her mother, she will never have the opportunity to talk, is the kind of strong sadness plus self-reproach.
后来我就鼓起勇气举手，说我在录音里，听到了仇恨。
Then I got up the nerve to raise my hand and said I heard hatred in the recording.
因为有一些母女，其实是冤家，她们之间有很多未解的心结，她妈妈去世后，她再也不可能去处理完她的心结，所以她哭，怨恨无以疏解。
Because there are some mother and daughter, in fact, is an enemy, they have many unresolved knot, her mother died, she can no longer deal with her heart knot, so she cried, resent inexplicable.
老师说我答对了，接着放这个录音，最后那个女生说，我觉得我跟我妈一直是有仇的。
The teacher said I was right. Then I put the tape back on. Finally the girl said, I think my mother and I have always had a feud.
这个仇现在我再也不能报了，甚至连宽恕也不可能了，这个仇就没有解决，我不知道怎么办。
I could no longer avenge it, not even forgive it; it was not settled, and I did not know what to do.
心理医生，就要对症下药，解决这个女生的问题。
Psychologist, the right medicine, to solve the problem of this girl.
林梦平教授专攻心理咨询学。
Professor Lin Mengping specializes in Psychology.
心理学有一点像医学，是个很大的框架，心理咨询学，就相当于心理学里面的临床医学，就是要不断和活生生的人发生联系，然后帮助他们恢复更好的心理状态。
Psychology, like medicine, is a big framework. Psychology, like clinical medicine in psychology, is about being in constant contact with living people and then helping them to regain a better psychological state.
举这个例子，我是想说，当我跨越心理学最初的知识点以后，加上我对人生的了解，加上我当医生的经历，就会做得稍微好一些。
To take this example, I mean, when I cross the threshold of what psychology has taught me, plus what I know about life and what I've had as a doctor, I do it a little better.
心理医生遇到的问题张英：心理学学完之后，你去开心理学门诊了。
Problems with Psychologists Zhang Ying: After you finished your psychology course, you went to the psychology clinic.
毕淑敏:我开了门诊后才发现，中国的心理来访者实在太多了，来找我看门诊的来访者也太多了，我力不从心。
Bi Shumin: After I opened the clinic, I found that there were too many psychological visitors in China and too many visitors to see me at the clinic.
我本来想心理学对我自己的帮助比较大，我会明白我是一个什么样的人，因为每个人认识自己其实挺不容易的，常常是从别人的反应里面来认识自己。
I thought psychology would help me a lot, and I would understand what kind of person I am, because it is not easy for everyone to know themselves, and often they know themselves through the reactions of others.
但把所有人对你的认知反应加在一起，也并不就是你自己。
But add up all the cognitive responses to you and it's not you.
你还是要对自己有一个认识，可是这个认识你不借助科学力量，只靠自发的一种觉察，可能还是有所欠缺的。
You still have to know yourself, but this awareness that you do not rely on the power of science, relying on a spontaneous awareness, may be inadequate.
那我学完心理学，就会知道，我为什么在我的文学作品里面，对生命那样关注？我为什么会对人有兴趣？我聚焦在什么地方？我为什么会去环球旅行？我要去看这个世界。
So after I finish psychology, I know why I care about life that much in my literature. Why am I interested in people? Where do I focus? Why do I travel around the world? I want to see the world.
我非常清楚，我的人生要的是什么。
I know very well what I want in life.
但我不清楚是否对别人也有这样的帮助，就决定面向普通群众，开个心理学诊所，用心理学去帮助别人——这真的可以治病、诊断吗？用这样的药，可以让来访者康复吗？心理学理论上，应该是行的，我肯定要试一试。
But I wasn't sure if I could help anyone else, so I decided to open a psychology clinic for the general public and use psychology to help people - could it really cure and diagnose?
张英：这个心理学诊所开了多久？效果如何？毕淑敏：二十年前，老百姓对于心理医生的接受程度还是比较低的，没有现在这么普及。
Zhang Ying: How long has this psychology clinic been open? How effective is it? Bi Shumin: Twenty years ago, people's acceptance of psychiatrists was still relatively low, not as popular as it is now.
朋友们给我出主意，挂靠一个大学，或挂靠一个医院，或干脆做一个NGO，或者慈善机构什么的，这样有助于我借用资源。
My friends advised me to hang out with a college, or a hospital, or to be an NGO, or a charity, that would help me borrow resources.
但我当时直接以个人的名义开诊所了，注册了毕淑敏心理咨询中心，直接面向中国的普罗大众。
But I opened the clinic directly in my own name and registered the Bi Shumin Counselling Center, which is directly aimed at the general public in China.
这个诊所存活了前后三年，不是活不下去，而是来访者太多了，像个自由市场一样的。
The clinic survived for three years, not for lack of survival, but for too many visitors, like a free market.
后来我的工作人员说没办法，因为来看心理医生，成年人是一个人，如果是孩子，就会一家人都来。
Then my staff said there was nothing I could do, because seeing a psychiatrist, an adult is a person, and if it's a child, the whole family comes.
那时候，我面临了一个问题，来访者太多，排队太久，我根本就来不及看那么多号。
At that time, I faced a problem, too many visitors, too long queuing up, I can not see so many size.
我知道了对此刻的中国人民来说，心理学的宝贵和重要。
I have learned the value and importance of psychology to the Chinese people at this moment.
但个人力量太渺小。
But individual power is too small.
林老师训练我，医生不可以到外面去迎接来访者，可以从我的座位上站起来，面带微笑，等着他向我走来。
Mr. Lin trained me that doctors should not go outside to greet visitors. They could stand up from my seat and smile, waiting for him to come to me.
这是第一个回合，有它的象征意义，他的主动求助，他必须要为这个举措负起责任来。
It was the first round, and it was symbolic that his initiative to help, he had to take responsibility for the initiative.
当他一走进我的诊室的时候，我们的精神对决就开始了。
As soon as he walked into my office, our mental confrontation began.
我用了很长的时间，适应这个要求，练习不走过去迎接来访者。
It took me a long time to get used to this requirement and practice not to go over to greet the visitors.
我每一次迎接来访者的感觉是：我的门开了，来访者走进来的时候，带着一团的未知。
Every time I greet a visitor, my door opens and the visitor walks in with a huddle of unknowns.
接下来的时间里，我将陪伴他走过他人生非常困难，甚至是某种危险的过程。
For the rest of his life, I will accompany him through a very difficult, even dangerous, process.
和来访者谈的时候，为了不让他紧张、缓解压力，我们通常只能开动脑筋记，写很简短的几个字，主要靠事后的记忆笔录。
When talking to visitors, to keep them from getting nervous and relieving stress, we usually have to brainstorm and write a few short words, relying mainly on afterthought notes.
一般50分钟聊好，来访者走了以后，我要做点记录，因为他还会来，所以我要赶快记录当天的诊治情况。
After the visitors have gone, I'll make some notes, because he's still coming, so I'll make a quick note of the day's appointments.
中间休息10分钟，也就是上个厕所，做个记录喝一点水，马上下一位来访者来了。
Take a 10-minute break, the last toilet, take a drink of water for a minute, and the next visitor arrives.
一天工作下来，最多看八个来访者。
After a day's work, up to eight visitors.
一周才能看多少人呢？40多人。
How many people can you see in a week? More than 40.
我的工作人员跟我说，有一对夫妇，从春天树还没长叶子就预约我的号，到了秋天树叶落了，还没有轮到。
My staff told me that there was a couple who had made an appointment for my number even before the trees had grown a leaf in the spring.
这对小夫妇感情破裂了，听人说毕淑敏心理门诊很好，想找我做婚姻心理咨询。
The young couple broke up and heard that Bi Shumin psychological clinic is very good, would like to ask me for marriage counseling.
这件事对我触动特别大，我就想，天天做心理医生，也不能加班加点，大脑累了，就会迟钝，反应不过来。
This matter touched me particularly big, I think, every day as a psychologist, can not work overtime, the brain tired, will be dull, unable to respond.
医生如果是这样的状况，对来访者是不负责任。
If the doctor is in this condition, he is not responsible for the visitors.
这个工作没有办法生产线流水化，也没有办法能够批量处理问题。
There is no way to streamline the production line or to deal with problems in bulk.
那我最后就想，我还是写有关心理学的书去吧，一本书怎么样也能印个一万册吧？就算有人买了不读，读完的至少会有几千人吧。
The last thing I want to do is to write a book on psychology. How about 10,000 copies of a book? Even if someone doesn't read it, at least a few thousand people will read it.
这就等于我好几年的工作量了。
This is equivalent to years of work for me.
张英：来访者很多，问题很严重。
Zhang Ying: There are a lot of visitors.
毕淑敏：心理上的疾病，以预防为主，提高我们心理健康的水平，让我们内心变得更稳定、更坚强，会有更多沟通的方式，包括会处理这些困境，不是一下子陷入抑郁、躁狂，或者将那种负能量放到整个社会去。
Bi Shumin: Mental illness, focus on prevention, improve our mental health, make us more stable and stronger inside, and have more ways of communicating, including dealing with these difficulties, not falling into depression, mania, or putting that negative energy into the whole society.
我相信绝大多数来访者，是愿意面对自己的问题的，是可以找到妥贴的解决办法的。
I believe that the vast majority of visitors are willing to face their own problems and can find appropriate solutions.
就像我们生理上有了病，大多数人还是愿意吃药、打针，把这个病治好。
Just as we are physically ill, most people are still willing to take medicine, injection, to cure the disease.
真正不治病的人，还是少数。
The truly incurable are still a minority.
做了心理医生后，我明白世界如此多姿，如此多视角。
As a psychologist, I understand that the world is so diverse, so many perspectives.
不同的人有不同的逻辑，他的出发点带着他内心烙印的世界观。
Different people have different logic, his starting point with his brand of world view.
从另一方面来说，我很敬佩那些前来做心理咨询的人。
On the other hand, I admire people who come to do counseling.
他一定是遇到了生命中特别困难的时刻，愿意信任我，和他一道探讨怎么走出这个困境，而不是选择沉沦下去或者听天由命。
He must have had a particularly difficult time in his life and was willing to trust me and discuss with him how to get out of this rather than go down or resign himself to his fate.
来访者有一种自我改变的决心。
The visitor has a determination to change himself.
我很愿意投身到和来访者一道走过对他来说特别艰难的心理路程。
I'd love to go through a particularly difficult psychological journey with a visitor.
要知道，陪伴是有力量的，这个力量有时会很大。
You know, companionship is powerful, and sometimes it can be very powerful.
当一个人不再觉得孤独和恐惧时，自己便会找到方向和出口。
When one no longer feels lonely and afraid, one finds one's way and one's exit.
三年门诊，我也帮到了很多人。
Three years of out-patient service, and I've helped a lot of people.
张英：我听一个心理医生说，毕淑敏后来不开诊所了，原因是你的价格比较高，一批有钱的人把你的号都占住了。
Zhang Ying: I heard from a psychiatrist that Bi Shumin didn't open the clinic because your price was so high that a group of rich people took your number.
毕淑敏:我那个诊所是几个人出资合办的，他们给我定的挂牌门诊价特别高。
Bi Shumin: My clinic was co-financed by several people who gave me a very high price for the listed clinic.
我当时说这不合适，不能这么高。
I said it wasn't right. It couldn't be that high.
但我们那个班的同学都是我的医生，说请从工作大局着想，还有别的医生呢，如果单你一人定价不高，比如你五十块钱他们一百块钱，他们工作量就不饱和。
But my classmates are all my doctors. Please think of the big picture and what about the other doctors. If you don't put a high price on your own, say fifty dollars for a hundred dollars, they won't be able to work at full capacity.
实际上我们都是林老师的学生，大家门诊的处理方法差不多，没有什么区别。
In fact, we are all Mr. Lin's students, everyone out-patient treatment methods, there is no difference.
我的同学们，现在都是这个领域的权威人士了。
My classmates, are now the authorities in this field.
就像我前面说的那对小夫妻，他们愿意高价挂我的号。
Like the couple I mentioned earlier, they're willing to pay a lot of money for my number.
但是，人多得高价也挡不住。
But there are too many people to stop.
破釜沉舟的时候，人们其实不在乎一百和五十的区别。
When people burn their bridges, they don't really care about the difference between a hundred and fifty.
我觉得，还是写书产生的效果更好。
In my opinion, it is better to write a book.
三十块钱卖掉一本书，差不多一个盒饭的钱。
Thirty dollars to sell a book, about a box of rice.
如果有心人去读了，内心受触碰，其实基本问题是可以解决了，用不着看门诊出几倍的价钱。
If someone is willing to read, touch the heart, in fact, the basic problem can be solved, do not have to see out-patient pay several times.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·口述实录 | 香港女孩岑雅茵：大家都要平平安安，阿中哥哥加油！·口述实录 | 6口之家3人感染新冠肺炎，熬过这个艰难的冬天·这三本《新民周刊》一定要收藏好！中国战“疫”口述细节+全景报道，记录你我的历史新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go through the tough winter with oral details and panoramic coverage of all our history New People's Weekly articles, and don't reprint, publish, adapt, or otherwise engage in any other behavior related to Xinmin Weekly's copyright without proper authority.Why don't we all go through this difficult winter
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
毕淑敏：生死之外，人生都是小事。
Bi Shumin: Life is a small thing except life and death.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "毕淑敏：生死之外，人生都是小事";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; life and death.
var msg_desc = "要知道，陪伴是有力量的，这个力量有时会很大。
var msg _ desc = & quot; you know, company is powerful, and sometimes powerful.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '口述实录 | 香港女孩岑雅茵：大家都要平平安安，阿中哥哥加油！',。
Ren Shun, a Hong Kong girl: Everybody must be safe, brother A and C at home! & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 6口之家3人感染新冠肺炎，熬过这个艰难的冬天',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '这三本《新民周刊》一定要收藏好！中国战“疫”口述细节+全景报道，记录你我的历史',。
This three copy of Xinmin Weekly must be kept in storage! Oral details of the plague in China + panoramic coverage, and a record of your and my history and position.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
