​药企巨头态度转变开始入局疫苗，只因为新冠病毒将长期存在？。
Zen pharmaceutical giant attitude change began to enter the vaccine, just because the new crown virus will be long-term?
张静。
Zhang Jing.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
越来越多的跨国药企开始加入研发新冠病毒疫苗的行列。
More and more multinational pharmaceutical companies are joining the effort to develop a vaccine for the new crown virus.
本周，法国药企赛诺菲（Sanofi）宣布将与美国卫生和公共服务部（HHS）合作，利用重组 DNA 平台生产疫苗。
This week, the French pharmaceutical company Sanofi announced that it would work with the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to produce vaccines using a recombinant DNA platform.
此前，美国强生（Johnson＆Johnson）也宣布与 HHS 合作研发疫苗。
Earlier, Johnson & Johnson announced a partnership with the HHS to develop a vaccine.
赛诺菲疫苗全球负责人 David Loew 表示：“我们必须协同合作才能应对全球性的健康威胁，比如最新的冠状病毒。
David Loew, global director of Sanofi said: "We have to work together to address global health threats, such as the latest coronavirus.
为此，我们与 BARDA（美国生物医学高级研究与开发局）展开合作，加速开发这款潜在候选疫苗。
To that end, we are working with BARDA to accelerate the development of this potential candidate vaccine.
”辉瑞、默克、葛兰素史克、赛诺菲、强生这几家巨头主宰着全球疫苗产业。
Big names Pfizer, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi and Johnson dominate the global vaccine industry.
目前只有辉瑞和默克两家巨头尚未明确表态。
Only two giants, Pfizer and Merck, have yet to give a clear signal.
（来源：Harvard Health）此前，这些制药巨头并没有对新冠疫苗和药物表现出明显的兴趣。
(Source: Harvard Health) Until then, the pharmaceutical giants had shown no discernible interest in new canopy vaccines and drugs.
吉利德、艾伯维也只是基于现有药物来进行实验，人们对制药巨头是否愿意投资研制新冠疫苗很不乐观。
Geely and Alberta are only experimenting with existing drugs, and there is little optimism that the pharmaceutical giants will invest in a new crown vaccine.
倒是一些 NGO 组织表示将通过慈善捐款推动疫苗开发。
Some NGOs, however, say they will promote vaccine development through charitable donations.
一家在 2017 年创立的名为 “流行病预防创新联盟” (CEPI) 的组织正在支持 Inovio 和 Moderna 的疫苗开发项目。
An organization called the Epidemic Prevention Innovation Alliance (CEPI), founded in 2017, is supporting vaccine development projects in Inovio and Moderna.
葛兰素史克同意将其技术提供给 CEPI。
GlaxoSmithKline agreed to make its technology available to CEPI.
生物技术公司 Moderna 此前宣布将与美国国立卫生研究院合作，利用 mRNA 技术开发疫苗。
Biotech firm Moderna had previously announced that it would work with the National Institutes of Health to develop a vaccine using mRNA.
但美国国家过敏和传染病研究所所长安东尼 · 富奇（Anthony Fauci）对此并不看好，他认为该公司把研究成果转化为可商用的疫苗是具有挑战性的，因为这些公司没有巨头那样强大的基础设施来实现批量生产，这一过程可能“非常困难且令人沮丧”。
But Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, does not like it, arguing that it is challenging for the company to turn its research into a commercially available vaccine, because these companies do not have the giant's strong infrastructure to mass-produce, a process that can be "very difficult and frustrating."
这些制药巨头的冷淡，主要来自于商业考量，开启一项针对新型病毒的疫苗研发，前期要投入巨额的成本，约为 7.5 亿 - 10 亿美元，过程中存在很大的失败可能；就算成功研发出疫苗，如果病毒很快被控制住了，这些巨头前期成本就打了水漂。
The apathy of the pharmaceutical giants, largely driven by commercial considerations, has meant a huge upfront cost of about $750 million to $1 billion to develop a vaccine; even if the vaccine is developed successfully, if the virus is quickly contained, the upfront costs of the giants will be lost.
如今，制药巨头入局，听起来似乎是个好消息，因为它们的开发经验和雄厚积累，能让疫苗研发获得更多的保证。
Today, the entry of pharmaceutical giants sounds like good news, because their development experience and vast accumulation can provide additional guarantees for vaccine development.
但换个角度来看，它们决定 “下血本” 入局，部分驱动原因应是在于判断新冠病毒将长期与人类共存。
But, in a different perspective, they decided to enter the game "on a whim," driven in part by a determination that the new crown virus will long coexist with humans.
这对大众来说，似乎又是个坏消息。
That seems to be another bad news for the public.
病毒大概率将长期存在，药物巨头才会纷纷入局巨头为何选择在此时入局，这与疫情发展态势和病毒属性有重要关系。
The high probability of the virus will be long-term, only then will the pharmaceutical giants into the game why they choose to enter the game at this time, which is related to the development of the epidemic and virus attributes.
有专家认为，或许可以重拾 SARS 研究，同样作为冠状病毒，它到底消失与否？新冠病毒是否会像 SARS 一样自动消失，还是会像流感病毒一样毒性逐渐弱化，但将长期流行？病毒的诸多规律中最主要的一条是，随着病毒的多代传播，其毒性会越来越弱。
Some experts believe that it may be possible to revisit the SARS study, again as a coronavirus, and whether it will disappear like SARS, or will it become less toxic like the influenza virus, but the main rule of the virus is that it will become less toxic as it spreads over generations.
这是因其进化本质决定的，那些毒性更强的毒株会随着宿主人类的死去而消失，留下来的是毒性更弱的毒株。
This is due to the evolutionary nature of the more virulent strains that disappear with the death of the host humans, leaving behind more virulent strains.
只有毒性减弱，它才能得到更多的宿主，才能长期繁衍下去。
Only by becoming less toxic can it acquire more hosts and be able to reproduce over time.
这也是大多数病毒的结局。
This is where most viruses end up.
那么新冠病毒的弱毒性正是其有可能长期与人类共存的重要因素。
So the virulence of the new crown virus is an important factor in its potential long-term coexistence with humans.
香港大学公共卫生学院教授高本恩（Cowling, Benjamin Joh）此前告诉 DeepTech，人们仍在努力遏制新冠病毒的传播，但事实证明这很困难。
Cowling, Benjamin Joh, a professor at the University of Hong Kong's School of Public Health, told DeepTech that efforts are still being made to contain the spread of the new crown virus, but this has proved difficult.
如果我们无法控制其传播，那么在开发出疫苗之前，它就会成为流行病。
If we cannot control its spread, it will become an epidemic before a vaccine is developed.
可以预期，随着病毒适应人类，感染的严重程度会随着时间的推移而降低。
It can be expected that the severity of the infection will decrease over time as the virus adapts to humans.
如果这种病毒像其他人类冠状病毒一样能导致类似流感疾病的话，那也不足为奇。
If the virus, like any other coronavirus in humans, could cause a flu-like illness, it is not surprising.
中国医学科学院院长王辰在 2 月 19 日接受央视采访时表示，新冠肺炎 “有可能转成慢性的，像流感一样长期在人间存在的病。
In an interview with CCTV on February 19, Wang Chen, dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, said the pneumonia "has the potential to turn into a chronic, flu-like illness.
” 这也就意味着，新冠病毒不太可能会像 SARS 一样被控制住然后就此消失，一旦与人类共生的话，之后只能靠疫苗来预防控制。
This means that the new crown virus is unlikely to be contained like SARS and then disappear, and once symbiotic with humans, it can only be prevented and controlled by vaccines.
明尼苏达大学传染病研究和政策中心主任 Michael Osterholm 在接受华盛顿邮报的采访时发表了同样的观点：“我认为公司正在以前所未有的方式看待它，因为我认为这种疾病本身正在说明，它可能会存在一段时间。
Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, said the same thing in an interview with the Washington Post: "I think the company is looking at it in an unprecedented way because I think the disease itself is showing that it may be around for a while.
人们现在开始认识到冠状病毒将在全球蔓延。
People are now beginning to realize that the coronavirus will spread around the world.
”图 | 美国 CDC 成立紧急处理中心以应对新冠病毒（来源：美联社）尽管钟南山等国内的一些卫生专家预测感染将在月底达到高峰，但美国方面好像对疫情的感染速度放缓的消息显得谨慎。
WHAT & # 45; & # 45; CDC Set Up Emergency Response Center to Tackle the New Crown Virus While some health experts in China, such as Zhong Nan Shan, forecast a peak by the end of the month, the U.S. appears cautious about reports of a slowing infection rate.
截止目前，美国发现 15 例确诊。
So far, 15 cases have been diagnosed in the United States.
日本和韩国等国家病例仍在增加，一些国家和地区出现首例感染。
Cases continue to increase in countries such as Japan and South Korea, with the first infections occurring in some countries and regions.
世界卫生组织和多名感染疾病科学家警告，全球预估将有三分之二的人口遭感染。
The World Health Organization and infectious disease scientists warn that an estimated two-thirds of the world's population will be infected.
美国疾病控制与预防中心 (CDC) 也呼应，新冠肺炎可能持续到明年，最终恐在美国社区传播。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) echoed, saying pneumonia could last until next year and could eventually spread to the American community.
HHS 正与流感监控网络合作，以应对快速变化的疫情。
The HHS is working with the Influenza Surveillance Network to respond to the rapidly changing epidemic.
因此，一些药企进入新冠病毒领域释放出这样一个信号，它们判断未来对新冠疫苗的需求将是持续且大量的。
As a result, some pharmaceutical companies are sending such a signal into the world of the new crown virus, judging that future demand for a new crown vaccine will be sustained and substantial.
如果辉瑞和默克也加入进来，对疫苗开发来说或许是个好兆头。
If Pfizer and Merck join in, it could augur well for vaccine development.
有利可图还是迫于无奈？从事免疫治疗药物研发的王晨光博士此前对 DeepTech 解释道，从一个公司来讲，疫苗研发涉及药物经济学的问题。
Dr. Wang Chenguang, an immunotherapist, has explained to DeepTech that vaccine development involves the economics of drugs for a company.
只有针对长期存在、季节性爆发的病毒，药物公司才会巨资投入研发疫苗，而对于像 SARS 病毒那样不再复发的，则没有必要投入。
Only in the case of a long-standing, seasonal outbreak of the virus will drug companies invest heavily in the development of a vaccine, and there is no need to invest in a vaccine that does not recur, as the SARS virus does.
根据 Statista 的数据，去年全球疫苗销售额达到 540 亿美元（约合人民币 3800 亿元）。
Global vaccine sales reached $54 billion last year, according to Statista.
相比之下，去年强生年度营收为 820.59 亿美元。
That compares with J & J's annual revenue of $82.059 billion last year.
疫苗开发需要投入巨大的前期成本。
Vaccine development requires significant upfront costs.
通常，一种疫苗推向市场将花费近 36 亿元人民币，仅一期临床试验就要花费近 7000 万元人民币。
Normally, a vaccine would cost nearly Rmb3.6 billion to go on the market, and a single phase of clinical trials would cost nearly Rmb70m.
制药公司一般不会从疫苗上赚很多钱，根据麦肯锡的分析，最高的生物药物的收入是最高疫苗收入的两到三倍。
Pharmaceutical companies generally do not make much money from vaccines, and, according to McKinsey's analysis, the highest biologic drug earns two to three times the highest vaccine income.
因此，大公司往往没有足够大的动力来开发新疫苗。
As a result, large companies often do not have strong enough incentives to develop new vaccines.
图 | 18 家跨国药企 2019 年度营收情况（来源：亿欧）尽管至今仍没有研制出 SARS 疫苗，但当时药企巨头曾经对 SARS 疫苗表现出十足的兴趣。
AT & # 160; 18 multinational drug companies' 2019 revenues (source: billions of euros) Despite not having developed the SARS vaccine so far, the drug giants showed great interest in the SARS vaccine at the time.
当时正值中国主动消费有价疫苗的迅速增长期，中国是疫苗的新兴市场。
It coincided with a period of rapid growth in China's active consumption of valuable vaccines, an emerging market for vaccines.
2003 年政府拨款 12 亿元用于疾控，并为 SARS 设立了 20 亿元的专项防治基金。
In 2003, the government allocated 1.2 billion yuan for disease control and set up a two billion yuan special prevention and control fund for SARS.
葛兰素史克、默克、法国巴斯德等企业嗅到商机，陆续进入中国市场建立合资企业、合资项目。
Companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, Merck and Pasteur are sniffing out business opportunities and entering the Chinese market to set up joint ventures and projects.
SARS 疫苗最终无果而终。
The SARS vaccine failed in the end.
回到此次新冠病毒，一些免疫治疗领域的专家此前在接受采访时表示，部分公司在这一时间点高调宣布进行疫苗研发的做法，目的在于炒作、抬高公司股价。
Returning to the new crown virus, some experts in the field of immunotherapy have said in an interview that some companies are making high-profile announcements about vaccine development at this point in time in order to hype up the company's share price.
在最近几年里，SARS、H1N1、西尼罗河病毒、寨卡病毒、埃博拉病毒等疾病相继爆发，这使全球疫苗销售额有所增长，但同时也让主要的疫苗生产商无暇顾及日常的营利活动。
In recent years, outbreaks of diseases such as SARS, H1N1, West Nile virus, Zika virus, and Ebola have increased global vaccine sales, while diverting the attention of major vaccine producers from routine, profitable activities.
人体临床试验需要三个研究阶段，整体完成一般需要 5-10 年。
Human clinical trials require three stages of study, which generally take 5-10 years to complete as a whole.
同时，因为疫苗用于预防疾病，有更高的质量和安全标准，所以在上市前的人体临床试验、以及最终的审批都极为耗时。
At the same time, pre-market human clinical trials and eventual approvals are time-consuming, as vaccines are used to prevent disease and have higher quality and safety standards.
即使进入市场也并不意味着万无一失，一些潜在问题可能在疫苗使用一段时间后才会显现。
Even entering the market does not mean that it is infallible, and some potential problems may become apparent only after the vaccine has been in use for some time.
图 | 一位老人接种疫苗（来源：法新社）葛兰素史克在其 H1N1 疫苗被发现有嗜睡副作用并停止销售之后表示，“希望在突发公共卫生事件中提供帮助，但它无法像过去那样继续这样做”；赛诺菲悄然停止了研发寨卡病毒疫苗的工作；默克为埃博拉研发的疫苗直到去年才获得美国监管部门的批准，它表示将不再尝试开发针对其它埃博拉病毒的疫苗。
GlaxoSmithKline says after its H1N1 vaccine was found to have drowsy side effects and stopped selling, "Hope to help with public health emergencies, but it can't continue doing so as it did in the past." Sanofi quietly halted its work to develop Zika vaccines.
这次宣布加入新冠疫苗研发的赛诺菲，曾在连续几轮的疾病紧急响应中遭受了巨大打击。
Sanofi, which announced its involvement in the development of the new crown vaccine, has been hit hard by successive rounds of emergency response to the disease.
本世纪初，该公司研制出西尼罗河病毒疫苗。
At the beginning of this century, the company developed West Nile virus vaccine.
尽管该疾病每年仍会在美国引发数百例严重疾病，据估计，从 1999 年到 2016 年，该疾病造成 2000 多人死亡，但公众的恐惧逐步减轻，随之而来的就是疫苗的市场潜力的消失。
Although the disease still causes hundreds of serious diseases in the United States each year, and is estimated to have caused more than 2,000 deaths between 1999 and 2016, public fears have gradually diminished, with the attendant loss of market potential for vaccines.
赛诺菲最终搁置了项目。
Sanofi finally shelved the project.
再如 2009 年，流感大流行并没有像预期般严重，众多国家拒绝购买已经订购的流感疫苗。
In 2009, for example, the flu pandemic was not as severe as expected, with many countries refusing to buy flu vaccines already ordered.
2014 年，众多制药公司参与了埃博拉疫苗研发的竞赛，但是目前绝大多数疫苗仍然处于准备进入试验的阶段，而疫情已经被控制。
In 2014, a large number of pharmaceutical companies competed for Ebola vaccine development, but most vaccines are still in the process of being tested, and the epidemic has been brought under control.
应该说，制药巨头们已经在紧急响应疫情的过程中，吃过很多亏。
It is fair to say that the pharmaceutical giants have already suffered a lot in their emergency response to the epidemic.
作为商业经营主体，盈利事关企业的生死存亡，那么当下一次疫情爆发时，谁来响应号召?国际间要找到一种方法，使药业巨头们能够在避免运营成本压力的情况下提供帮助，这对未来疾病爆发应对措施的成功至关重要。
As a business entity, profits matter for the survival of the enterprise, so who will answer the call when the next outbreak breaks out? An international approach that enables pharmaceutical giants to help without operating cost pressures is critical to the success of future disease outbreak responses.
现实情况是，即使一个政府或学术实验室设计并测试出一种有前途的针对危险病原体的疫苗，也必须有厂商来大量制造出这种疫苗。
The reality is that even if a government or academic laboratory were to design and test a promising vaccine against dangerous pathogens, manufacturers would have to produce it in large quantities.
-End-来源：https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-health-202/2020/02/19/the-health-202-drugmakers-are-developing-a-coronavirus-vaccine-that-s-a-sign-the-disease-will-be-around-a-long-time/5e4c5169602ff16b163b1a2b/?from=singlemessage&isappinstalled=0https://www.statnews.com/2020/02/11/major-drug-makers-havent-stepped-up-to-manufacture-coronavirus-vaccine-top-u-s-health-official-says/https://www.statnews.com/2018/01/11/vaccines-drug-makers/。
- End-source: https: / / www.washingtonpost.com / news / power-post / paloma / the-health-202 / 2020 / 02 / 19 / the-health-202-health-account-that-s-a-sign-the-dialogue-be-account-s-a-sign-the-dialogue-be-account-s-a-sign-the-dialogue-be-account /.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​药企巨头态度转变开始入局疫苗，只因为新冠病毒将长期存在？。
Zen pharmaceutical giant attitude change began to enter the vaccine, just because the new crown virus will be long-term?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "​药企巨头态度转变开始入局疫苗，只因为新冠病毒将长期存在？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "越来越多的跨国药企开始加入研发新冠病毒疫苗的行列。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; A growing number of multinational pharmaceutical companies have joined in developing a vaccine for the new cap virus.
本周，法国药企赛诺菲（Sanofi）宣布将与美国卫生和公共";。
This week, Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical company, announced it would work with US health and public services.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
