鄂外重灾区：国内多地重点管控“温州返回人员”。
Hubei heavy disaster areas: many domestic key control "Wenzhou returnees."
李玉楼 王华震。
Wang Hua Zhen of Li Yu Building.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月31日，温州某商业街，店铺都关闭了。
On January 31, 2020, a commercial street in Wenzhou, shops are closed.
（南方周末记者 王华震/图）全文共3424字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Hua Zhen / map) The full text of 3424 words, reading about 8 minutes.
截至2月4日12点，温州确诊新冠肺炎病例340例，成为湖北之外确诊病例最多的地级市。
As of 12: 00 on February 4, Wenzhou confirmed 340 cases of New Crown Pneumonia, the most confirmed cases outside Hubei City.
温州对所有确诊病例的密切接触者和湖北返温人员进行集中硬隔离。
Wenzhou to all confirmed cases of close contact and Hubei warm-back personnel to concentrate hard isolation.
同时，国内不少城市也开始排查从温州返回的人员，对相关人员进行隔离甚至直接劝返。
At the same time, many cities in China also began to check the return of personnel from Wenzhou, the relevant personnel isolated or even direct persuasion.
对温州而言，更大的压力在于33万从湖北到温州的务工人员。
For Wenzhou, the greater pressure is on the 330,000 migrant workers from Hubei to Wenzhou.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李玉楼 王华震责任编辑 | 钱昊平2020年2月2日开始，浙江温州的居民每两天就需要做一次决定：家里选派谁出门？当天一早，温州发布了国内最严格的出行管控措施：未来七天，全市每户家庭每两天指派一人出门采购生活物资。
Qian Haoping, a resident of Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, was required to make a decision every two days starting February 2, 2020: Who will be sent out by their families? Early that morning, Wenzhou issued the country's most stringent travel regulations: one person per household every two days for the next seven days.
这基本照搬了湖北黄冈前一天就开始的做法。
This basically copied Huanggang Huanggang Hubei started the day before the practice.
相比黄冈，温州的疫情“并不算重”，截至2月4日12点，黄冈确诊的新冠肺炎病例已超过1400例，温州是340例。
The Wenzhou epidemic is "not serious" compared to Huanggang, where more than 1,400 cases of the disease were diagnosed as of 12: 00 on Feb. 4 and 340 in Wenzhou.
但在湖北之外，温州是国内迄今确诊病例最多的地级市，其他各地级市的确诊病例都不超过150例。
But outside Hubei, Wenzhou is the city with the highest number of confirmed cases so far in China.
温州已成“孤悬的重灾区”，目前正对所有确诊病例的密切接触者和湖北返温人员进行集中硬隔离，仅下辖的乐清市就要隔离6613人，全市需隔离近3万人，正在进行“拉网式再排查”。
Wenzhou has become a "disaster area", is now all confirmed cases of the close contacts and Hubei people back to the hard isolation, only the jurisdiction of the city of Yueqing will isolate 6,613 people, the city needs to isolate nearly 30,000 people, is conducting a "pull-back screening."
同一时期，国内不少城市也开始排查从温州返回的人员，对相关人员进行隔离甚至直接劝返。
At the same time, many cities in China also began to check the return of personnel from Wenzhou, isolation and even direct persuasion of relevant personnel.
温州乐清一隔离医院的施工现场。
Construction site of a isolation hospital in Yueqing, Wenzhou.
（南方周末记者 王华震/图）1网格化管理“温州人”较早要求对自温州返回人员重点管控的是杭州。
(Southern Weekend Reporter Wang Huachen / Map) 1 Grid Management "Wenzhou people" earlier called for the return from Wenzhou focus on the control of Hangzhou.
2月1日下午，杭州市召开新冠肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会，杭州防控指挥部要求对温州返杭人员“逢车必查，逢人必测”。
February 1 afternoon, Hangzhou City held a news conference on the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia, Hangzhou Control and Prevention Command asked Wenzhou Returned Hangzhou personnel "must check the car, it must be measured."
具体做法包括，温州确诊患者或与确诊患者有过密切接触者，不允许进入杭州。
Specifically, Wenzhou confirmed patients or patients with close contacts, not allowed to enter Hangzhou.
有发热咳嗽等症状的予以隔离再进行医学观察，劝返无症状但工作生活与杭州无关的温州人员。
Have fever cough and other symptoms of isolation and then medical observation, advised to return to the asymptomatic but working life and Hangzhou do not have personnel.
对无症状的自温州返杭人员，或有杭州居住证、居住地、工作工位(3条符合1条即可)的温州籍人员，留下联系方式和住址后，可以放行，但需居家隔离14天。
For asymptomatic persons returning from Wenzhou, or persons of Wenzhou nationality who have residence permit, residence and working station in Hangzhou (three of which comply with Article 1), they may be released after leaving their contact details and address, provided that they are kept in isolation for 14 days.
同一天，毗邻温州的福建宁德部分区县也发文，要求排查自温州返回的人员，相关文件中已将温州和武汉相提并论，屏南县要求走访自温州返屏人员，实行网格化管理，建立温州返乡人员信息库。
On the same day, some counties in Ningde, Fujian Province, adjacent to Wenzhou, sent letters asking people returning from Wenzhou to be checked. Relevant documents already equate Wenzhou with Wuhan.
宁德东侨经济技术开发区则要求对来自温州的车辆实行交通管控。
The Dongqiao Economic and Technological Development Zone in Ningde requires traffic control of vehicles from Wenzhou.
2月2月，江苏南通多地也要求重点关注“温州来通”人员。
February 2, Jiangsu Nantong Dao also asked to focus on "Wenzhou to pass" personnel.
一日之内，崇州区、港闸区、如皋市等6个区（县、市）都发出了内容大致相同的文件，都提出“凡有春节到温州尚未返通、来通的人员一律劝其待在原处”，并要求提前开工的企业或建筑工地，凡有从温州去的工人，一律休息并在居住地隔离观察14天。
Within a day, the Chongzhou area, the port gate area and Rugao city and other six districts (counties and cities) issued documents with similar contents, all of which suggested that all those who have not yet returned to Wenzhou for the Spring Festival should stay where they are.
截至目前，江苏无锡、常熟，浙江省内的台州、衢州等地也都出台了相关规定，要求对温州返回人员严格管控。
So far, Wuxi and Changshu in Jiangsu Province, Taizhou and Quzhou in Zhejiang Province have also issued relevant regulations requiring strict control over returnees in Wenzhou.
2防控加码：被隔离两次面对成为湖北之外“重灾区”的现实，温州对“湖北返温”者的防控措施越来越严，李苗（化名）甚至被隔离了两次。
2 Prevention and control code: Isolated twice to become the "disaster areas" outside Hubei reality, Wenzhou "Hubei back to temperature" the control measures become more stringent, Li Miao (alias) was even isolated twice.
她是1月19日从湖北黄石返回温州的，23日被居委会告知要居家隔离观察，工作人员说是通过大数据排查到她是湖北返乡人员，要求她在隔离期间每天报告两次体温。
She returned to Wenzhou on January 19 from Huangshi, Hubei Province, and was told by her neighborhood committee on January 23 that she was being quarantined by local residents.
没想到8天后，1月31日晚上，没有任何症状的李苗又接到居委会的电话：“明天会有专人来接你去指定酒店集中隔离。
Eight days later, on the night of January 31, Li Miao, who had no symptoms, received a telephone call from his neighborhood committee.
”对方说这是市政府刚刚作出的决定，所有从湖北到温州的人都要集中隔离。
"The other side said it was a decision just made by the city government that all people from Hubei to Wenzhou should be concentrated in isolation.
2月1日傍晚，李苗被居委会接到了定点酒店，要再次隔离14天。
On the evening of February 1, Li Miao was received by the neighborhood committee to a designated hotel, to be quarantined for another 14 days.
她告诉南方周末记者，隔离酒店条件很好，一人一间，马桶水箱中每天都会放进一片消毒片。
She told Southern Weekend reporter that the isolation hotel is in good condition, one person per room, toilet water tank will put a piece of disinfectant every day.
被隔离者在里面每日测量两次体温，一日三餐由专人定时送到房间门口。
Isolated people in the daily measurement of body temperature, three meals a day by regular delivery to the door of the room.
防控措施明显加码了，这是从浙江省委书记车俊温州之行以后开始的。
Prevention and control measures significantly increased, this is from Zhejiang Provincial Party Secretary Chuang Jun Wenzhou after the trip.
1月27日，温州新增病例首次出现两位数增长，首度超过杭州，累计病例达到32人，成为浙江省确诊病例最多的城市。
On January 27, Wenzhou registered its first double-digit increase in new cases, surpassing Hangzhou for the first time, with a cumulative total of 32 cases, making it the city with the highest number of confirmed cases in Zhejiang Province.
次日，车俊前往温州和台州督导疫情防控工作，他在讲话中提出，“温州、台州确诊病例较多，疫情防控形势严峻，务必进一步把广大群众动员起来、让各级干部紧张起来，努力使疫情拐点早日到来。
"There are many confirmed cases in Wenzhou and Taizhou, and the situation of epidemic prevention and control is very serious, so we must further mobilize the general public, make cadres at all levels tense up and try to bring about an early inflection point," he said in his speech.
”温州市委书记陈伟俊1月29日在传达车俊讲话精神的会议上提出“奋战十天，拿下拐点”的目标，此后温州每天都会提出防疫新举措：复工开学日期两次推迟，公共交通渐次停摆，高速公路出入口越封越多，新增病例的通报开始详细到每一例。
Wen said at a meeting on January 29 to "fight for ten days and take down the inflection point." Wen Zhou has announced new measures every day since then, including postponing the start of classes twice a day, halting public transport, increasing the number of highway entrances and exits, and reporting new cases in more detail.
31日晚，温州推出了疫情防控25条紧急措施，但次日的新闻稿件仅列举了其中7条，对“所有湖北返温人员全部隔离”等措施直到2月2日才出现在《温州日报》上。
Wenzhou launched 25 emergency measures for the prevention and control of the disease on the night of Feb. 31, but only seven of them were listed in the news articles the next day.
这离温州出现第一例新冠肺炎患者，已过去将近1个月。
It is nearly a month since Wenzhou saw its first case of new crown pneumonia.
3何以迅速增长？1月3日，一名46岁男子从武汉自驾前往温州，4日出现发热症状，17日被送往定点医院进行隔离治疗。
A 46-year-old man drove to Wenzhou from Wuhan on January 3, developed fever on January 4 and was taken to a designated hospital for isolation and treatment on January 17.
温州市第六人民医院是温州传染病定点医院，该院感染科63病区主任医师戴建义接受中新社采访时表示，他是在17日凌晨5点被告知首例新冠肺炎患者即将收治入院。
Wenzhou Sixth People's Hospital is Wenzhou Infectious Disease Dai Jianyi, director of the Infection Department of Wenzhou Infectious Diseases Department, told China News Agency that he was told at 5: 00 a.m. on the 17th that the first case of New Crown Pneumonia was about to be admitted to hospital.
四天后，国家卫健委确认公布了这一病例，彼时，患者的呼吸道病核酸检测已经转阴，次日即宣告基本痊愈。
Four days later, the National Board of Health confirmed the case, when the patient's RNA test had turned cloudy and was pronounced almost complete the next day.
这令不少温州人感到惊愕。
This surprised many people in Wenzhou.
“刚一确诊就出院了，听上去挺好治的样子。
"Right after the diagnosis, I was discharged from the hospital. It sounded very treatable.
”杨璐（化名）告诉南方周末记者，她是温州银泰世贸商场的营业员，1月20日她已经听到商场内出现疑似病例的消息，恐慌在同事间蔓延，但首例病例治愈的消息平复了恐慌。
Yang Lu (not her real name) told Southern Weekend reporter that she was a shop assistant at Wenzhou Yintai World Trade Center. She had heard of a suspected case in the store on January 20 and panic spread among her colleagues, but the news of the first case cured calmed the panic.
截至发稿，温州已通报11例与银泰世贸商场有关的确诊病例，最早的发病者在1月16日出现症状，这是目前公开报道中，发生在公共场所最大规模的新冠肺炎疫情感染。
As of the date of dispatch, Wenzhou has notified 11 confirmed cases related to Yintai World Trade Center, with the earliest cases showing symptoms on January 16, the largest reported case of New Crown Pneumonia in a public place.
1月21日起，温州机场开始对从武汉飞来的进港旅客测量体温。
From January 21, Wenzhou airport began to take temperature measurements of incoming passengers arriving from Wuhan.
不同于其他东部城市，温州的春运进出两旺，既有上百万外来务工者离温返乡，也有同样数目的温商从世界各地回到温州，2019年，机场客运量逾1200万人次，在地级市机场中仅次于三亚。
Unlike other eastern cities, Wenzhou has seen an influx of millions of migrant workers returning home, and a similar number of warm quotients have returned to Wenzhou from all over the world. In 2019, the airport handled more than 12 million passengers, second only to Sanya among the city's airports.
一位温州机场的工作人员告诉南方周末记者，机场方面发现的首例疑似患者出现在1月27日，当时机场已将体温检测扩展到所有到达乘客。
A staff member at Wenzhou Airport told Southern Weekend that the first suspected case was found at the airport on January 27, when temperature tests were extended to all arriving passengers.
当晚，从马来西亚沙巴飞抵温州的OD8118航班上有两名乘客体温偏高。
Two passengers on board flight OD8118, which arrived in Wenzhou from Sabah, Malaysia, had high body temperatures.
“他们向机场报告了体温异常和武汉旅行史，并随即前往医院就诊。
"They reported abnormal body temperature and Wuhan travel history to the airport and went to the hospital immediately.
”后续的疫情通报显示，这两名患者1月20日从武汉前往马来西亚游玩，24日即出现发热等症状，27日返温后就诊。
Follow-up reports indicate that the two patients travelled from Wuhan to Malaysia on January 20 and developed fever and other symptoms on January 24 and returned to the hospital on January 27.
“自湖北返温人口基数大”被视为造成温州疫情严重的重要原因之一。
"From Hubei back to the temperature of the population base" is considered as one of the serious causes of Wenzhou epidemic.
温州常住人口是925万，1月29日，温州市副市长汤筱疏在新闻发布会上说，其中在武汉就学务工有18万人左右，截至1月28日，温州已排查出武汉及周边地区返温人员3.3万人，汤筱疏提及的另一个病例快速增长原因是排查和检测速度增快，自1月25日起，温州市共有8个实验室可用于核酸试剂检测，按照2-3天的检测时间计算，该市27日起确诊病例激增与这一因素关系紧密。
As of January 28, Wenzhou had sorted out 33,000 people back to work in Wuhan and surrounding areas. As of January 28, Wenzhou had sorted out 33,000 people returning to Wuhan and surrounding areas.
4最主要的挑战：更大的压力值得注意的是，武汉“封城”后，又有大量人口迁入温州。
The Most Important Challenge: More Pressure It is worth noting that after Wuhan "closed the city," a large number of people moved to Wenzhou.
汤筱疏提供的数据显示，1月23日至1月27日，有1.88万人从湖北、特别是从武汉进入温州，平均每天3600人。
From January 23 to January 27, 18,800 people crossed from Hubei, especially Wuhan, to Wenzhou, an average of 3,600 people a day, according to figures from Mr. Tang.
张蕊（化名）的姐姐和姐夫就是23日之后返回温州的，25日凌晨1点，趁高速还没有封路，他们从武汉启程，驱车14小时回到温州。
Zhang Lian (alias) sister and brother-in-law is 23 after the return of Wenzhou, 25, 1 a.m., before the closure of the highway, from Wuhan, they drove 14 hours back to Wenzhou.
出发时，姐夫已经连续发烧三天，肺部CT也显示异常，而武汉的医院人满为患，他们商量后决定返温寻求治疗机会。
At the time of departure, the brother-in-law had had a fever for three days and pulmonary CT findings showed signs of abnormality.
温州近日公布的新增病例中，有8例是在23日武汉封城之后返回温州。
Of the newly reported cases in Wenzhou, eight were returned to Wenzhou after the city was closed on May 23.
据张蕊介绍，她的姐姐在高速公路上全程开窗缝通风，在休息站也不敢下车，到达温州后，直奔发热门诊，姐夫顺利入院，姐姐则被留院观察，她告诉张蕊，“一路上非常担心遭到家乡的歧视，不过温州的医生理解我的选择”。
Zhang said her sister, who had been ventilating the windows all the way on the expressway and was afraid to get off at the rest stop, went straight to the fever clinic after arriving in Wenzhou. Her brother-in-law was admitted to hospital.
张蕊的姐姐拒绝了南方周末记者的采访请求。
Zhang's sister refused Southern Weekend reporter's request for an interview.
发病者会主动就诊，对温州而言，最主要的挑战是要找到自湖北还乡者和潜在的密切接触者。
The main challenge for Wenzhou is to find returnees and potential close contacts from Hubei Province.
张宏良（化名）是瑞安市潘岱街道的一名干部，他从1月21日开始忙活，主要工作是“找湖北人”。
Zhang Hongliang (alias), a cadre at the Pantai Street in Ryan, began his work on January 21, focusing on "looking for Hubei people."
1月24日，张宏良得到一份据称是通过大数据摸排出来的湖北返乡人员名单，有七十多个电话，他在办公室里花了大半天时间打电话确认。
On January 24, Zhang Hongliang got a list of more than 70 phone calls from Hubei province, allegedly compiled from big data. He spent most of the half-day in his office calling to confirm.
“名单有六七成是准确的，帮助我们发现了一些刻意隐瞒身份的人员。
"Six or seven out of ten people on the list are accurate, helping us find people who deliberately hide their identities.
”张宏良告诉南方周末记者，大数据排查和挨家挨户走访需要同时进行。
Zhang told Southern Weekend that big data-checking and door-to-door visits needed to go hand in hand.
张宏良的工作方式正是温州市长姚高员口中的“大数据+大网格”，姚在接受央视采访时表示，温州这几天已经排查了762万人次。
Zhang Hongliang's way of working is what Yao Gao, mayor of Wenzhou, calls "big data + big grid." Yao told CCTV that Wenzhou has checked 7.62 million times in the past few days.
《时代周报》2月2日援引当地政府人士消息称，“武汉返温人数在五万人左右，几天前还剩余5000余人在排查”。
"Wuhan has about 50,000 people back on the warm, with more than 5,000 people still checking up a few days ago," the newspaper quoted local government sources as saying.
2月2日，温州市下辖的乐清市发布有奖举报通知，凡举报一例尚未登记的湖北来乐清人员即可奖励1000元。
February 2, Wenzhou under the jurisdiction of the city of Yueqing reported a case of unregistered Hubei Yueqing personnel can reward 1000 yuan.
找“湖北人”难，乐清雁荡镇政府一工作人员告诉南方周末记者，防控另一难点是阻止春节期间人群聚集。
Looking for "Hubei people" difficult, Yueqing Yanyang township government staff told Southern Weekend reporter, another difficulty is to prevent people from gathering during the Spring Festival.
温州当地年俗丰富，自外地返乡者少不了四处拜访。
Wenzhou rich in local customs, from the non-local returnees must visit around.
“要让村民过年待在家里真的很难。
"It's really hard for the villagers to stay at home for the New Year.
”该工作人员介绍，按照当地民俗，正月初一不能有生人上门，有的隔离对象便以此为由拒绝工作人员上门抽查，甚至借机外出串门。
"According to local folklore, no one can come to the door on the first day of the first month," the official said.
1月31日，温州市公安局通报了6起涉疫类违法行为，其中3起是擅自外出活动的隔离人员均被处以行政拘留。
On January 31, the Wenzhou Municipal Public Security Bureau notified six cases of epidemic-related violations, three of which were administrative detention of isolated persons who had gone out of their homes without authorization.
对温州而言，更大的压力在于33万从湖北到这个城市的务工人员。
For Wenzhou, the greater pressure lies in the 330,000 migrant workers who travel from Hubei to the city.
企业复工日期已被推至2月17日，复工后，从重点疫区返温的员工还将由企业负责集中隔离观察14天，这意味着这座城市还要度过一段不短的“安静时光”。
The resumption of work has been postponed to February 17, and workers returning from key affected areas will be quarantined for 14 days, meaning the city will have a long "quiet time."
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
鄂外重灾区：国内多地重点管控“温州返回人员”。
Hubei heavy disaster areas: many domestic key control "Wenzhou returnees."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "鄂外重灾区：国内多地重点管控“温州返回人员”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
