一个小工厂主的艰难复工之路。
A small factory owner's hard way back to work.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
The following article comes from 我是南七道。
I am the South Seven Way South.
Author 南七道。
Author Seven South.
我是南七道。
This is Seven South Road.
关注创业与投资方法论。
Focus on entrepreneurship and investment methodology.
疫情，让老蔡这样的小微型企业措手不及。
The epidemic caught small microenterprises like Tsai unprepared.
而开工之路，更是遥不可及文｜ 南七道广东随处可见的小工厂（南七道2019年摄）受疫情影响，最近包括魅KTV吴海、西贝贾国龙、老乡鸡董事长束从轩，都纷纷站出来说经营困难，活不过2-3个月，但实际上，他们的规模并不小，比他们更困难的是小微企业主。
The way forward, however, is more remote than ever: The ubiquitous small factories in Guangdong (pictured in 2007) have been affected by the epidemic, including Wu Hai of KTV, XibaijiaGuolong, and Chao Congxuan, the chairman of Lao Xiang Chicken, all of whom are struggling to survive for two or three months.
他们账上没有千万资金，他们没有微博微信公号，他们也不会发声公关，他们唯一能做的就是等待。
They don't have tens of millions of dollars on their books, they don't have micro-credit, they don't speak public relations, and all they can do is wait.
老蔡在深圳宝安开了一个工厂，是专门做线材加工，主要用于音响连接线，充电线，耳机连接线等，是个很小的工厂，3-40个员工，一年产值不到一千万。
Old Cai opened a factory in Baoan, Shenzhen, specializing in wire processing, mainly for audio cable, charging line, headphone connection, etc., is a small factory with 3-40 employees, with a production value of less than 10 million a year.
这样的企业在深圳东莞遍地皆是。
Such enterprises are everywhere in Dongguan, Shenzhen.
疫情，让老蔡这样的小微型企业措手不及。
The epidemic caught small microenterprises like Tsai unprepared.
而开工之路，更是遥不可及。
And the road to work, is far from reach.
报备：复工部分申请资料以目前的形势，防疫成了各级政府的头等大事。
Reporting: resume work part of the application data to the current situation, immunization has become the top priority at all levels of government.
疫情之下的复工报备和审核，已经成了一个体力兼脑力的活。
The resumption of work under the epidemic and audit, has become a physical and mental work.
首先是派人去上培训课，“如何开工及准备”。
The first is to send someone to attend the training course, "How to start and prepare."
然后要对工厂环境进行消毒和监测。
The factory environment is then disinfected and monitored.
再就递交文书和申请资料：在深圳宝安，一家工厂要申请开工，首先是面对着海量的表格和文件，包括：1 复工申请备案表2 复工企业疫情防控承诺书3 公司防控小组4 员工体温检查记录5 防护用品发放登记表6 防护用品库存清单7·1 人员流动信息表7·2 流动人员清单8 全厂检查表9 全厂逐级责任书签订10 企业应对疫情预案11 全员复工培训档案12 安全专题班前会13 隔离室在南山西丽，有的公司接到了街道办复工要求，需要公司为每位员工每天准备一套防护服的，最后发现，不仅企业买不到，连医院都没有了，于是不了了之。
In Baoan, Shenzhen, a factory will apply to start work, first of all, to face a large number of forms and documents, including: 1 Return to Work Application Form 2 Prophylaxis and Control of Disease Control and Prevention Company Control Group 4 Personnel Body Temperature Checklist 6 Factory Inspection Form 7.
甚至还出现了很魔幻的情况：企业要复工，就要提交资料申请，盖公章。
There is even a very magical situation in which, in order for an enterprise to resume work, it must submit an application for information and stamp.
但公章在办公室，办公室被封锁了。
But the seal is in the office. the office is blocked.
于是资料没办法提交。
The information could not be submitted.
但你不提交资料，就没法进入办公室。
But you can't get into the office without submitting your papers.
“我们没有申请复工，申请也不会通过的。
"We have not applied for reinstatement and the application will not be successful.
”老蔡的工厂也在深圳宝安，但他知道看了身边的朋友都是白忙一场。
Old Cai's factory is also in Baoan, Shenzhen, but he knows that seeing friends around him is a waste of time.
首先是审批手续之复杂，审批通过率之低，让很多工厂都放弃了申报。
The first is the complexity of the approval process and the low approval rate, which has led many factories to give up their declarations.
在深圳宝安的一个工厂的行政说，他们已经递交了两次，但都没通过。
Administrators at a plant in Baoan, Shenzhen, said they had submitted it twice but failed.
在深圳南山知名的粤海街道办，有40000多家企业，包括腾讯迅雷等多家上市公司在内，但一天通过只有100家左右。
The famous Nanjing Road Office in Nanshan, Shenzhen, has more than 40,000 enterprises, including Tencent Thunder, a number of listed companies, but only about 100 a day through.
工人：即使好不容易，通过了审核，但是工人是个大问题，工厂面临无人生产的窘境。
Worker: Even if it is difficult to pass the audit, the workers are a big problem and the factory faces the dilemma of no one producing.
同样还是政策到了基层，被层层加码和扭曲变形的现状。
The same policy to the grass-roots level, by the stratification and distortion of the status quo.
尽管公安部，发改委多部门有明文规定，不得随意封锁高速公路、县道、乡道。
Although the Ministry of Public Security and the NDRC have many regulations, they must not arbitrarily block highways, county roads and township roads.
但实际情况就是，现在各个省市县乡，已经被人为的用渣土、围墙、栏杆封锁成了一个个孤岛。
But the fact is, now the provinces and cities, counties and townships, has been artificially blocked with slag, walls, railing into a single island.
人进不去，也出不来。
No one can get in or out.
老蔡的工人来自于湖北湖南江西四川等地，疫情重地湖北姑且不说。
Cai's workers come from places such as Sichuan, Hunan province in Hubei province, where the epidemic is severe.
湖南慈利等非重点疫情的区域，这些工人想出门务工，最后才发现连乡村都出不去，通往县城的道路已经被彻底切断。
In non-priority areas such as Cili in Hunan province, the workers wanted to go out to work, only to find that the country could not get out and that the road to the county town had been completely cut off.
这种情况在四川等多地都有发生。
This has happened in many places, including Sichuan.
老工人出不来，也没有办法补充新工人。
Old workers can't get out, and there's no way to replenish them.
即使部分工人已经回到深圳，也不敢开工。
Even though some of the workers have returned to Shenzhen, they are afraid to start.
老蔡所在的工业园规定，首先是工人要隔离14天。
Cai's industrial park requires workers to be quarantined for 14 days.
然后审批后上岗，如果工作期间，发现有一个工人发热，不管是否确诊，那么这个工厂就要停工，所有人隔离14天。
After approval is given, if a worker is found to be feverish during work, whether diagnosed or not, the plant is shut down and everyone is isolated for 14 days.
如果隔离期间，上下游供应商开工了，而他们还没有解除隔离，那么很有可能，合作方就会更换供应商，因为合作方等不起。
If, during the isolation period, the upstream and downstream suppliers start work and they have not been de-segregated, it is highly likely that the partner will change the supplier because the partner cannot afford to wait.
如果是这样，那干脆不开工，继续等待。
If that is the case, then simply do not start, continue to wait.
供应链：现在的制造业生产，已经完全是一个供应链、产业链深度合作的生态融合的关系，再小的一个商品，也不可能独立完成了。
Supply chain: Now the manufacturing production, has been a supply chain, industrial chain depth cooperation of ecological integration relations, no matter how small a commodity, also can not be completed independently.
按照制造业的习惯，考虑到春节假期，一般会在年前，准备15天的生产原料，最多一个月吧，太多仓储就会有太大压力。
According to manufacturing habits, considering the Spring Festival holiday, generally 15 days in preparation for the production of raw materials, at most a month, too much storage will have too much pressure.
环环相扣，其中一家开工根本没用，而是需要整个供应链上的多个合作方，大家一起动起来。
One of them doesn't work at all. It requires multiple partners along the entire supply chain to move together.
老蔡的工厂生产的一根看起来很普通的音响的连接线，包括核心部分的光纤，PVC塑材、金属线、端子开模、胶带、外包装。
Tsai's factory produces a seemingly ordinary-looking sound connection, including core fiber optics, PVC plastic, wire, terminal opening, tape, and overpack.
每一个部分都需要一个供应商和小型加工厂。
Each part requires a supplier and a small processing plant.
至少需要6家供应商参与，而老蔡自己又只是LG等大品牌的外包产业链中极小的一个环节。
At least six suppliers are needed, and Cai himself is only a tiny part of the outsourcing industry chain for big brands such as LG.
即使强大如iPhone，如果是其中一家螺丝钉供应商不开张，那么一部苹果手机其他屏幕等组件都到位了也没用，没法完成最后组装，进入到商品流通环节。
Even if it's as powerful as the iPhone, if one of the screw vendors doesn't open, it doesn't make sense to have all the other screens on an Apple phone in place to put the final assembly into circulation.
现代的商业合作，让彼此合作越来越紧密，同时对他人的依赖程度也越来越深。
Modern business co-operation has led to closer co-operation and increased reliance on others.
而制造业的商品数量，直接影响了电商和外贸业务。
The quantity of goods in the manufacturing industry directly affects the electricity business and the foreign trade business.
中国一咳嗽，世界就感冒，一点也不夸张。
It is no exaggeration to say that the world caught a cold when China coughed.
做外贸的Ella，主要做欧洲的亚马逊，家庭类的电子产品，但是现在的货，只到2月中旬，现在下单，工厂也无法补货了。
Ella, a foreign trader, specializes in European Amazon and home electronics, but now only in mid-February, now orders, factories can not replenish.
只能等待，而这个过程中，她苦心经营的网店的排名和热度都会下降，又会影响到下一阶段的营收。
Can only wait, and in the process, her painstaking online store ranking and heat will decline, and will affect the next stage of revenue.
三角债：小微制造企业现在的困境，表面上是受疫情影响，但背后深层次的问题，其实是三角债。
Trigonomic debt: the current plight of micro and small manufacturing enterprises, ostensibly affected by the epidemic, but the underlying problem, in fact, is a triangle debt.
三角债是中国制造业的最大顽疾，问题由来已久，深入到产业链每一个环节。
Trigonometric debt is the most persistent disease in China's manufacturing industry, the problem has a long history, deeply into every link of the industrial chain.
这种由台湾人带来的商业模式，已经让国内制造厂商苦不堪言，但无力改变。
This Taiwanese-brought business model has made domestic manufacturers miserable, but unable to change.
相互欠款已经变成了一种行业通用规则。
Mutual arrears have become an industry norm.
在欧美发达国家，一般是现款结算，同时会有法律约束和规定。
In the developed countries of Europe and America, it is usually settled in cash, and there will be legal restrictions and regulations.
除了芯片等技术门槛很高的产业，必须付现外。
Industries with high technology barriers, such as chips, must be paid out of cash.
越是门槛低的产业，欠账越严重，恶性循环。
The lower the threshold of the industry, the more serious the debt, the vicious circle.
大的生产商找中型工厂代工生产，中型企业拿到订单，先找原材料商赊账，然后再分包给小企业，小企业再分包给微型工厂和家庭作坊，大的生产商收到货再发给销售商和电商平台，一环扣一环。
Large producers find medium-sized factory subcontractors, medium-sized ones get orders, raw material suppliers get credit and then subcontract to small enterprises, which subcontract to micro- and home-based factories, and large producers receive the goods for resale and distribution to electronic commerce platforms, one link at a time.
一般收到货之后2-6个月付款。
Payments are generally made two to six months after receipt of the goods.
于是形成了人人是债主，人人都欠债的尴尬局面。
The result was an embarrassing situation in which everyone was a creditor and everyone was in debt.
很多低端制造企业数量众多，有的时候互相之间为了抢生意，会拼命压价，甚至不惜亏本抢客。
Many low-end manufacturers are numerous, sometimes in order to snatch business between each other, will desperately undercut prices, even at the cost of robbers.
这暴露了中国产业结构的问题。
This exposes the problem of China's industrial structure.
当企业面临低利润时，就会挤占流动资金和应付货款，进一步加剧了相互拖欠。
When firms face low profits, they crowd out working capital and accounts payable, further exacerbating mutual defaults.
而企业产品没有核心技术门槛，导致产品积压，形成采购——生产（含外包）——压价——拖欠——破产。
And there is no core technological threshold for enterprise products, leading to product backlogs, leading to the bankruptcy of procurement - production (including outsourcing) - underpricing - default.
如果其中有一家倒闭，那么它欠别的合作方的债务也无法兑现，于是引发连环破产。
If one of them fails, the debt it owes to other partners will not be paid, triggering a cascade of bankruptcies.
生态链上的一系列恶性循环。
A vicious cycle in the ecological chain.
中国的工厂的账期，一般是3-6个月。
Factories in China are generally spread over a period of three to six months.
如果是华为这样的大公司下订单，账期60天，你先替华为生产，采购原料和发工资，交货之后，60天再回款，在这之前，所有的资金有企业垫付。
If Huawei placed an order with a large company like Huawei for 60 days, you would first produce for Huawei, purchase raw materials and pay wages, pay back 60 days after delivery, before all the funds are paid in advance by the enterprise.
华为这样有实力的公司，相对风险较小，但如果是其他公司，风险就很大了。
Huawei, such a strong company, the relative risk is relatively small, but if it is other companies, the risk is very large.
2015年年底，锤子手机代工厂，有4000员工的深圳中天信电子，因为三角债，老板跑路，引发一系列的合作厂商倒闭。
At the end of 2015, the hammer handset factory, with 4000 employees of Shenzhen Zhongtian Electronics, triggered a series of partner failures as the owner ran away with the delta debt.
老蔡利润很薄，一年流水千万级别，但除去房租、水电、工资、其他行政开支外，也就是每个月剩个几万块钱利润，即使这个利润也是应收款。
Old Cai's profit is thin, running tens of millions of yuan a year, but excluding rent, utilities, salaries, and other administrative expenses, it leaves tens of thousands of dollars a month in profit, even if the profit is a receivable.
年前房租工资奖金，备货，支付部分货款，其实账面现金已经所剩无几，就等着新年来了之后的结算和流水。
Years ago rent wage bonus, stock, part of the payment, in fact, the cash book is very little, waiting for the New Year after the settlement and running water.
“餐饮和KTV都是现金流，我们极少能收到现款。
"Catering and KTV are cash flows and we rarely get paid in cash.
大多数工厂的账面现金，如果完全不开工，只够支撑一个月，最多两月。
Most factories have enough cash on hand to last only a month, or at most two months, if they don't start at all.
”本文获权转载自“我是南七道”责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
This text has been reproduced from "I Am Seven Stories" at & # 44; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个小工厂主的艰难复工之路。
A small factory owner's hard way back to work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "一个小工厂主的艰难复工之路";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a small factory owner.
var msg_desc = "疫情，让老蔡这样的小微型企业措手不及。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; The epidemic caught small microenterprises like Tsai off guard.
而开工之路，更是遥不可及​";。
And the road to construction is remote and distant.
title: '难产又难卖，苹果怎样熬过疫情期？',。
How did Apple survive the epidemic? & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周',。
Saving Wuhan: The hardest three weeks & apos; & quot; at & quot; since sealing the city.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '武汉爱情故事',。
Wuhan love story & apos; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '情人节2020：没有鲜花，只有套套',。
Valentine's Day 2020: No flowers, only AT & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
