刘俏：抗疫是地方治理能力的大考。
Liu Que: Anti-epidemic is a big test of local governance ability.
王延春。
Wang Yanchun.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
各级政府的绩效考评正在从“增长锦标赛”逐渐转为侧重治理能力、治理体系的新绩效评估框架，这次疫情可能是转折点。
The epidemic is likely to mark a turning point as governments at all levels shift from "growth tournaments" to a new performance-assessment framework that focuses on governance and governance systems.
如何提升市场应对突发事件的能力和韧性，也是体现国家综合治理能力提升的重要标志2020年2月12日，位于武汉体育中心的方舱医院正式启用，提供1100张医疗床位，收治新冠肺炎轻症患者。
On February 12, 2020, the Fang Cathedral Hospital, located in Wuhan Sports Center, opened to the public, providing 1,100 hospital beds for people with mild pneumonia.
来自安徽医疗队的陈荔英（左）与同事在门口等待转运来的患者。
Chen Lai-ying from Anhui Medical Team (left) and her colleagues wait at the door for patients to be transferred.
图/新华文|《财经》记者王延春编辑 |苏琦1月23日，武汉“封城”。
Photo / Xinhua News & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
次日，全国多个省市启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应，多个地方“封人、封城、断路、封路”。
The following day, several provinces and cities across the country launched a major public health emergency first-level response, "sealing people, sealing cities, cutting roads, sealing roads."
甚至有些地方存在“一刀切、层层加码、过犹不及”的现象。
Even in some places there is a "one size fits all, layer by layer, overreach" phenomenon.
一些疫情较轻的城市模仿疫情严重地区的措施，采取各种过度限制，使经济的“创伤面”扩大。
Some cities with low epidemics mimic those in highly affected areas, imposing excessive restrictions that widen the "trauma" of the economy.
比如，人流冻结、物流阻断、返程受阻、拖延复工等。
For example, people freeze, block logistics, block the return journey, delay the resumption of work, etc.
2月3日，中共中央政治局常务委员会会议强调，在疫情防控工作中，反对形式主义、官僚主义，不敢担当、作风漂浮、推诿扯皮，要坚决问责。
On February 3, the Standing Committee of the Politburo stressed that in the prevention and control of the epidemic, we should oppose formalism and bureaucracy, dare not bear the responsibility, drift and prevaricate, and be firmly accountable.
提出这次疫情对中国治理体系是一次考验。
The outbreak is a test of China's governance system.
2月12日，中央政治局常务委员会会议指出，非疫情防控重点地区要以实行分区分级精准防控为抓手，统筹疫情防控与经济社会秩序恢复。
On February 12, the Standing Committee of the Central Politburo Standing Committee noted that the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases in key areas should focus on the implementation of zoning and precise prevention and control.
北京大学光华管理学院院长刘俏接受《财经》记者专访时表示，公共危机应急管理切忌“单一维度”导向。
Liu Qiao, dean of the Guanghua School of Management at Peking University, told Caijing that emergency management of public crises should not be guided by a "single dimension."
需要强调两个维度，第一防止疫情扩散。
Two dimensions need to be emphasized, first, to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
第二是尽可能恢复生产和就业，采取科学合理的方式使职工返岗。
The second is to restore production and employment as much as possible and to return workers to work in a scientific and rational manner.
“地方切忌过度干预、采取一些过犹不及的政策，要尊重市场规则，逐渐恢复市场活动。
"Local authorities must refrain from excessive intervention, adopt policies that go too far, respect market rules and gradually resume market activities.
谨防隔离群体无限扩大化等过激做法的连锁冲击。
Beware of the cascading impact of extreme practices such as the infinite enlargement of isolated groups.
”刘俏认为， “地方政府治理能力决定着国家治理体系和治理能力现代化的水平，目前中国的政府绩效评估已经形成了新的绩效评估框架。
"The ability of local governments to govern determines the level of modernization of the country's governance system and governance capacity," said Liu.
提升市场应对突发事件的能力和韧性，也是体现国家综合治理能力不断提升的重要标志。
To enhance the ability and resilience of the market to cope with emergencies is also an important symbol of the continuous improvement of the country's comprehensive management capacity.
”2020年注定是政府的大考之年，在疫情的认知预判、危机治理、应急管理、社会治理等方面暴露出的短板和不足，亟待关注与深思。
The year 2020 is set to be the year of the government's big test, with shortcomings and shortcomings revealed in the cognitive prejudgement of the epidemic, crisis management, emergency management, and social governance, requiring urgent attention and reflection.
疫情防控和复工复产要统筹兼顾《财经》：2020年初这场突如其来的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情肆虐全国，各地出台了交通管制、企业停业、假期延长等多项应对措施。
In early 2020, a new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak hit the country, and a number of measures were put in place to prevent and control the disease, as well as to prevent the resumption of work.
您怎么判断疫情对经济的影响？刘俏：很多学者在讨论疫情对经济的影响时，都在讨论对总量经济（例，GDP）的影响，而且往往把这次疫情对经济的影响与2003年的非典（SARS）进行对比，但我个人感觉这两者之间其实存在很多的差异，这种简单的类比本身可能就是在回答错误的问题。
How do you judge the impact of the epidemic on the economyLiu: When many scholars discuss the impact of the epidemic on the economy, they talk about the impact on the aggregate economy (e.g. GDP), and often compare the economic impact of the epidemic with SARS in 2003.
这些差异体现在以下三点。
These differences are reflected in the following three points.
第一，经济增长的底层逻辑发生了变化，过去靠投资拉动的高速增长，现在已经转向消费驱动和效率驱动，增速也降下来了。
First, there has been a shift in the underlying logic of economic growth from high investment-led growth to consumption-driven and efficiency-driven growth.
第二，我们的产业结构和增长动能也发生了很大变化，除了固定资产投资外，消费已经成为中国经济增长最重要的动能。
Second, China's industrial structure and growth momentum has also changed a lot, except for fixed asset investment, consumption has become the most important momentum of China's economic growth.
第三，时间点不同，这次疫情发生在春节期间，而SARS的大规模爆发发生在春节之后，时间不同带来的结构性影响也不太一样。
Third, the timing is different, the outbreak occurred during the Spring Festival, and the SARS outbreak occurred after the Spring Festival, the different timing of the structural impact is not the same.
以产业结构为例，与2003年相比，2019年我们第三产业比重已经占到了GDP的54％，贡献了将近60％的GDP增长，换句话说，第三产业也就是我们常说的服务业已经成为中国经济的主要支柱和增长动能。
In terms of industrial structure, our tertiary sector accounted for 54% of GDP and contributed nearly 60% of GDP growth in 2019, compared to 2003. In other words, the tertiary sector, as we often say, has become the mainstay of the Chinese economy and the engine of growth.
相较于别的行业，这次疫情对服务领域的影响其实是最大的也是最直接的，交通运输、仓储、批发零售、住宿、餐饮，娱乐等需要线下进行服务的项目都受到了很大影响，而这些行业再加上同样受到严重影响的农林鱼牧，合在一起的比重占到了GDP的36％。
The epidemic's impact on the service sector has been greatest and most direct compared to other sectors, where offline services such as transport, storage, wholesale and retail, accommodation, catering and recreation, which together account for 36 per cent of GDP, have been greatly affected.
所以，我们需要对疫情影响的具体行业做出具体分析，采取相应的经济对策，才可能评估出这次疫情对中国经济到底造成了什么样的影响。
Therefore, we need to make a specific analysis of the impact of the epidemic industry, corresponding economic countermeasures, it is possible to assess the impact of the epidemic on the Chinese economy.
这次病毒疫情对经济的影响，其实是一个内生变量，这其中有两点原因：第一，影响程度本身取决于疫情的控制情况。
The impact of the virus on the economy is actually an endogenous variable for two reasons. First, the degree of impact itself depends on how well the epidemic is controlled.
可能在现阶段、它对消费、对第三产业的影响比较大，但是它很快就会蔓延到制造业、房地产，和进出口相关的行业，甚至其他行业。
It may have more impact on consumption and the tertiary sector at this stage, but it will soon spread to manufacturing, real estate, import and export-related industries, and even other sectors.
所以尽快控制住疫情非常重要；第二，影响程度其实也取决于我们怎么去应对疫情所带来的影响。
So it is important to bring the outbreak under control as soon as possible; second, the extent of the impact will depend on how we deal with the impact of the epidemic.
如果我们能识别出疫情主要在哪些领域影响比较大，从而采取一些针对性的政策举措把影响降下来。
If we can identify the main areas of the epidemic in which the impact of the relatively large, so that some targeted policy initiatives to reduce the impact.
我个人判断是，与2003年非典相比，这次疫情的影响更多体现在两个方面，一是对中小微企业的影响，二是对就业的影响。
My personal judgement is that the impact of the epidemic, compared to that of SARS in 2003, has been felt more in terms of its impact on MSMEs and on employment.
而现在中国的中小企业基本上解决了超过80％的就业，从这个角度讲，这两个问题其实是合二为一的，也就是说，现在的重中之重是帮助中小微企业渡过难关。
With SMEs now accounting for more than 80 per cent of employment, the two issues were in fact convergent, meaning that the top priority now was to help MSMEs survive.
《财经》：目前中小企业面临的最大挑战是什么？刘俏：作为民营经济的主体，中小微企业对中国经济发展的作用是非常巨大的，特别是在就业方面。
Caijing: What is the biggest challenge facing small and medium-sized enterprises at present? As the main body of the private economy, the role of MSMEs in China's economic development is very large, especially in employment.
客观讲，我们需要看到我国中小微企业的生存环境和营商环境还有很大的改善空间。
Objectively speaking, we need to see the living environment and business environment of MSMEs in China still have a lot of room for improvement.
根据银监会的统计，截至2018年底，在我们各类人民币贷款里，民营企业的存量占比只有25.8％。
According to the CBRC, by the end of 2018, the stock of private enterprises accounted for only 25.8 per cent of our Renminbi-denominated loans.
换句话说，民营企业贡献了80％以上的就业、60％的GDP，但获得的贷款余额比例只有25.8％。
In other words, private enterprises account for more than 80 per cent of employment and 60 per cent of GDP, but receive only 25.8 per cent of the balance of loans.
从这个角度来看，中小微企业生存本身就面临比较严峻的考验；而这次疫情又是一个外部冲击，它给中小微企业带来的挑战就更大了。
From this point of view, the very existence of MSMEs is facing a more severe test; this epidemic is an external shock, which poses an even greater challenge to MSMEs.
清华大学朱武祥教授的团队最近对995家民营企业做了问卷调查，它把中小微企业面临的问题以一种非常尖锐地方式呈现出来了。
A recent survey of 995 private enterprises by Professor Zhu Wuxiang of Tsinghua University showed the problems facing MSMEs in a very sharp way.
调查结果显示，大概有85％以上的中小微企业，它们的现金流只够维持3个月左右，其中有1/3只能维持1个月，1/3能维持2个月，可见，中小微企业的现金流情况非常紧张。
The cash flow situation of MSMEs was very tight, as evidenced by the results of the survey, which showed that about 85 per cent of MSMEs had cash flows that lasted only about three months, one third for one month and one third for two months.
同时，中小微企业营收下行的压力也特别大，调查显示，销售收入下滑幅度达到20％以上的中小微企业所占比重达到了58％。
At the same time, the pressure on MSMEs to take over was particularly strong, with surveys showing that the share of MSMEs that had experienced a 20 per cent or more decline in sales revenue had reached 58 per cent.
此外，企业还要维持员工的工资、“五险一金”等等，支出上也面临着巨大压力。
In addition, enterprises have to maintain the wages of their employees, "five insurance, one gold," and so on, expenditure is also facing tremendous pressure.
更为重要的一点，该项调查还发现，很多中小微企业在应对新冠病毒疫情带来的冲击时，缺乏很好的应对手段，基本上只能靠减员、降薪、停产歇业等方式来应对危机。
More importantly, the survey also found that many MSMEs were ill-equipped to cope with the impact of the new crown virus epidemic, relying largely on job losses, wage cuts and shutdowns.
所以，我们在制定经济政策的时候，着力点应该有所倾斜，要把帮助中小微企业应对挑战作为重中之重。
Therefore, when we formulate economic policies, we should focus on some tilt, to help MSMEs to meet the challenges as a top priority.
虽然说疫情是命令、防控是责任，但是我们也要在认知上明确，防范经济风暴其实也是这轮疫情防控工作的重要组成部分。
Although the epidemic is command and control is the responsibility, but we should also be aware that the prevention of economic storm is also an important part of the prevention and control of the epidemic.
《财经》：超过4000万家中小企业是中国经济的基本盘和社会稳定器。
Caijing: Over 40 million small and medium-sized enterprises are the basic dish and social stabilizer of China's economy.
疫情面前中小企业和个体户最难挺下去，这可能是目前最大的社会挑战。
Small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people are the most vulnerable to the epidemic, which is probably the greatest social challenge at present.
如果疫情蔓延再拖一个月的话，会出现中小企业倒闭潮吗？刘俏：我没有那么悲观。
If the epidemic continues for another month, will there be a wave of SME bankruptcies? Liu Que: I am not so pessimistic.
虽然疫情对中小企业的影响深远，但是我们也有制度优势。
Although the epidemic has far-reaching implications for SMEs, we also have institutional advantages.
就地方政府而言，手头还是有很多政策工具可以帮中小企业熬过去，空间甚至还很大。
As far as local governments are concerned, there are still many policy tools at their disposal to help SMEs survive, and there is even plenty of room.
但是，地方政府在这个过程中应该树立两个目标，一方面，要尽快把疫情的扩散控制住，另一方面，在把防控疫情作为首要目标的前提下，也要尽快恢复经济和市场活动，不能让经济长时间处于休克阶段，如果这种休克长期存在，伤害的就不只是中小微企业了，对整体经济的影响可能都会加剧。
However, local governments should set two goals in this process: on the one hand, to bring the spread of the epidemic under control as soon as possible and, on the other hand, to resume economic and market activities as soon as possible, taking the prevention and control of the epidemic as the primary objective.
所以，我们不要把这两个目标对立起来，尽可能地把一些适合恢复的经济活动和市场活动恢复起来。
So let's not set these two goals against each other and try to restore as much economic activity and market activity as possible that is fit for recovery.
在中央总体政策下，各级政府配套上灵活操作，首先，不要“一刀切”。
Under the overall policy of the central government, governments at all levels operate flexibly, first of all, do not "one size fits all."
想方设法降低企业的运营成本。
Find ways to reduce the operating costs of enterprises.
其次，对面临经营危机的中小企业，实施降低甚至免征增值税及所得税，延缓一些税费的清缴，缓缴或返还部分社保费，减免国有物业房租等临时性措施。
Second, for small and medium-sized enterprises facing operational crisis, we will reduce or even exempt value-added tax and income tax, postpone the settlement of some taxes and fees, defer or refund some social insurance premiums, and reduce or exempt the rent of state-owned property.
再次，对坚持开工、生产，不裁员的企业给与救助奖励与信贷支持。
Third, to adhere to the start-up, production, non-layoff of enterprises to give relief incentives and credit support.
《财经》：中央政治局常务委员会2月12日召开会议指出，要加大宏观政策调节力度，针对疫情带来的影响，研究制定相应政策措施。
A meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo on Feb. 12 said macro-policy adjustments should be stepped up to address the impact of the epidemic and formulate appropriate policies and measures.
您认为中央政府有哪些政策空间？刘俏：货币政策也好，财政政策也好，采取结构性的精准政策可能更有效。
What policy space do you think is available to the central governmentLiu: Well, it might be more effective to adopt structural and precise policies, whether monetary or fiscal.
在货币政策方面，针对受疫情影响比较大的地区，分行业对中小企业实施定向降准，定向再贷款工具。
In terms of monetary policy, targeted deregistration and targeted refinancing instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have been implemented in specific sectors in areas more affected by the epidemic.
这比全面降息效果好。
This is better than across-the-board cuts.
目前疫情影响供给，通胀压力大，用普降的货币政策的话，有一定的风险。
The current epidemic affects supply, inflationary pressure is high, with a common monetary policy, there are certain risks.
我建议不必急于出台降准、降息等全面宽松的货币政策 , 而以定向工具为主，实现流动性的精准投放，确保资金准确流入最急需的相关行业和区域，是货币政策应对疫情的关键所在。
I suggest that we should not rush to release comprehensive monetary policies, such as lowering interest rates and lowering interest rates. Rather, we need to focus on targeted instruments to deliver liquidity precisely to ensure that funds reach the relevant industries and regions where they are most needed.
比如，银保监会出台政策，对受疫情影响暂时失去收入来源的人群，在信贷政策上予以适当倾斜，灵活调整住房按揭、信用卡等个人信贷还款安排，合理延后还款期限，车险延迟“续保不涨价”等措施，都是精准的施政措施。
For example, the CBRC has adopted a policy of giving appropriate preferential credit policies to people temporarily deprived of their sources of income due to the epidemic. Measures such as flexible adjustment of personal credit repayment arrangements such as housing mortgages and credit cards, reasonable delays in repayment deadlines, and delays in renewing car insurance coverage without raising prices are precise measures of governance.
相比货币政策，财政政策更有针对性、更精准，财政政策逆周期调节的措施完全可以加大力度。
Fiscal policy is more targeted and precise than monetary policy, and countercyclical fiscal policy measures could be strengthened.
目前中央政府的债务比例不算高，加强中央对地方的转移支付，增发国债、甚至提升赤字率到3％都是施政空间。
At present, the proportion of the debt of the central government is not too high. Strengthening transfer payments from the central government to local governments, increasing the issuance of government bonds and even raising the deficit ratio to 3% are all areas of governance.
增加对受影响较大行业的税费减免，包括减少企业所得税、增值税、政府性基金，加大对中小企业税前抵扣范围和力度，考虑对中小企业用工成本、租金成本等进行一定的财政补贴。
We will increase tax relief for the more affected industries, including reducing enterprise income tax, value added tax, government funds, increasing the scope and intensity of pre-tax deductions for small and medium-sized enterprises, and considering certain financial subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises for labour costs and rental costs.
《财经》：最近多位经济学家建议全国“两会”期间可以讨论赤字率提高到3％甚至3.5％。
Caijing: Some economists recently suggested that the deficit ratio could be raised to 3% or 3.5% during the NPC and CPPCC.
但一些学者认为提高赤字率没有多少钱，不如大幅度压缩政府支出。
But some scholars argue that there is little money to increase the deficit ratio, rather than slash government spending.
这也是一直以来财政改革方面学者争议的问题之一。
It is also one of the issues that scholars have been disputing about fiscal reform.
刘俏：的确，长远讲，压缩政府开支是关键。
Liu: Yes, in the long run, cutting government spending is the key.
但财政赤字率从2019年的2.8％，上调至3％，可以增加几千亿人民币的财政支出。
But raising the deficit to 3% from 2.8% in 2019 could add hundreds of billions of yuan to fiscal spending.
在非常时期，压开支很难，但提升赤字率可以解决部分资金问题。
It is difficult to rein in spending in bad times, but raising the deficit ratio can solve part of the funding problem.
当然，我认为，更有效的方法是增发国债以及特别专项债。
Of course, I think it would be more effective to issue more Treasuries and special-purpose debt.
比如，促进正常经济活动恢复的专项债，国开行、农发行等政策性银行发行特别专项债，通过这种方式促进经济活动的恢复，效果会更加直接。
For example, by issuing special-purpose debt to promote the resumption of normal economic activities, the CDB, agricultural issuing and other policy-oriented banks will issue special debts, thus promoting the resumption of economic activities, the effect will be more direct.
积极探索企业自救之策《财经》：面对疫情中小企业如何自救？刘俏：对企业来讲，短期跟长期的措施真不太一样。
Caijing: How can small and medium-sized enterprises help themselves in the face of an epidemic? Liu Que: Short-term measures are really different from long-term measures for enterprises.
短期就一句话：“活下去。
In the short term: "To live.
”疫情时期尽量让企业的现金流不崩断，这是企业的当务之急。
Keeping companies' cash flow afloat during the epidemic is a top priority.
我想给中小微企业提这样三点具体建议：第一，想好企业自身能做什么，在基本的经营层面、财务层面和资本层面，企业可以采取哪些行动来降低疫情影响。
I would like to make three specific recommendations to MSMEs: First, think about what enterprises can do for themselves and what they can do to reduce the impact of the epidemic at the basic operational, financial and capital levels.
比如在经营层面上，企业要想方设法增加营收、增加销售收入，可以开展在线销售或者其他一些创新方式，并运用极限化的方式降低成本，合理化投入节奏，以缓解企业现金流短缺的情况。
At the operational level, for example, companies should find ways to increase revenue and sales, either through online sales or some other innovative means, and to minimize costs and rationalize the pace of investment in order to alleviate cash flow shortages.
在财务层面上，也可以去寻求降息、增加贷款，或者把债务展期、延期，通过这样一些方式来缓解流动性风险，避免企业倒闭。
On the financial side, you can also seek to reduce interest rates, increase loans, or roll over or postpone debt in a way that mitigates liquidity risk and avoids business failures.
第二，政府在政策层面上有很多施展的空间，企业应该积极寻求政府的支持。
Second, the government has a lot of room for manoeuvre at the policy level, and companies should actively seek government support.
最近地方政府陆续出台了大量政策，而且这些政策的着力点也都是与帮助中小微企业有关联，像减免或着缓缴税费等等。
Recently, a large number of policies have been introduced by local governments, and the focus of these policies has been on helping MSMEs, such as tax breaks or tax breaks.
所以，企业家要密切关注政府举措，多看新闻联播，多了解地方政府的一些政策，寻求政府的支持和帮助。
Therefore, entrepreneurs should pay close attention to government initiatives, watch more news broadcasts, learn more about some local government policies, and seek government support and help.
第三，企业要与利益相关方进行全方位的协调和沟通。
Third, enterprises should conduct all-round coordination and communication with stakeholders.
在这样极端的情况下，企业应该与它的利益相关方，包括企业员工、上下游、融资方和出资方，以及客户等等，进行全方位的协调、沟通，尽量寻求各方的谅解，找到一种共生共利的方式渡过难关。
In such extreme cases, the enterprise should conduct all-round coordination and communication with its stakeholders, including employees, upstream and downstream, financiers and funders, as well as customers, in order to seek mutual understanding and find a way to overcome difficulties in a symbiotic and mutually beneficial manner.
《财经》：企业在寻求利益相关方的理解方面还能做什么？刘俏：在企业层面，我觉得企业之间的相互合作、相互支持非常重要。
Caijing: What else can a company do in seeking the understanding of its stakeholders? Liu Wei: At the enterprise level, I think it is very important for companies to cooperate and support each other.
非常时期需要发挥企业的共生共利精神，这样才能共同走出困境。
In order to get out of the dilemma together, we should bring into play the spirit of symbiosis and mutual benefit.
我们注意到有些银行对受疫情影响的行业采取减息，延迟本金跟利息的交付；有些城商银行调整利率降低企业的信贷成本；万达集团宣布对万达广场商户免租，盒马鲜生临时借用受疫情影响的餐饮企业的员工等这些跨界、跨企业合作的尝试。
We have noticed that some banks have cut interest rates on industries affected by the epidemic, delaying the delivery of principal and interest; that some city-merchant banks have adjusted interest rates to reduce the cost of credit to enterprises; and that Wanda Group has announced such attempts to cross-border and cross-enterprise cooperation by renting out commercial tenants in Wanda Square and temporarily borrowing boxed horses from catering enterprises affected by the epidemic.
这种共生同享精神是一个国家一个经济体发展到一定阶段后，呈现出来的企业更加依靠市场，依靠行业共生力量的体现。
This kind of symbiotic sharing spirit is that after a country's economy develops to a certain stage, the enterprises appear to rely more on the market and the symbiotic power of the industry.
从另一层面讲，对中国的民营企业，或者中小企业也好，这次疫情也加速了中国企业的分化进程。
On the other hand, the epidemic has also accelerated the process of differentiation among Chinese companies, whether they are private enterprises or SMEs.
在疫情中有共生共享理念的企业；精细化运营，积极采取有效应对之策的企业；对市场新机会保持敏锐的观察和感知，及时捕捉市场机会的企业；面对不确定性，能够灵活调整管理模式和组织形式的企业，可能会脱颖而出。
Enterprises that share the concept of symbiosis in an epidemic; those that fine-tune operations and actively respond to them; those that are keenly aware of new market opportunities and capture market opportunities in a timely manner; and those that are flexible in adjusting their management models and forms of organization in the face of uncertainty may emerge.
一些实力不足、应对不力、转换空间逼仄的企业则可能在疫情的冲击下被淘汰掉。
Some weak, inadequate response, the conversion of space cramped enterprises may be in the impact of the epidemic to be eliminated.
《财经》：也就是说，产业上下游之间、产业链之间、相关企业之间能够通过一定程度的让渡、共担来维系整个产业链的良性运转，因共生而存活。
Caijing: In other words, between the upper and lower reaches of industry, between industrial chains, between related enterprises to a certain extent can be transferred, shared to maintain the healthy operation of the entire industrial chain, because of symbiosis and survival.
刘俏：你这样表达比较准确一些，其实这个事情很有价值。
Liu Que: It's more accurate to say that. Actually, it's a valuable thing.
中国企业中有社会责任感的企业越来越多，这种正面导向的力量在慢慢汇聚。
Chinese enterprises have more and more enterprises with social responsibility, this kind of positive orientation force is gradually converging.
它是政府之外的一种社会力量或者行业力量，这种力量的充分释放将可以帮助企业一起来共同面对疫情带来的经济挑战。
It is a social or industrial force outside of government, and its full release will help businesses work together to meet the economic challenges of the epidemic.
我认为真正的企业社会责任根植于商业模式之中，产业链上的协同价值、共生价值将越来越发挥更大作用。
I believe that the real CSR is rooted in the business model, and the value of synergy and symbiosis will play a more and more important role.
《财经》：改善商业模式也是企业自救的方式。
Caijing: Improving the business model is also a way for companies to help themselves.
这次疫情促使很多企业尝试线上线下融合，远程办公、虚拟社交等方法。
The epidemic has prompted companies to try offline fusion, telecommuting and virtual social networking.
刘俏：疫情的确正在改变企业的商业模式，有些企业及时抓住变化、适应变化，顺势而为。
Liu: The epidemic is indeed changing the business model. Some companies are catching up with the changes and adapting to them.
疫情一定程度会加速企业转型和升级的趋势，能够活下来甚至发展更好的企业必须更加敏捷、精细化和具有创新驱动精神。
To some extent, the epidemic will accelerate the trend of enterprise transformation and upgrading. Firms that survive or even develop better must be more agile, refined and innovative.
远程办公、线上项目的兴起、无人机作业等，这些都是企业自救保证活下去的方法，这些东西对大面积的企业而言，不一定能起到立竿见影效果，但长远讲则是企业分化进程的体现。
Telecommuting, the rise of online projects, drone operations are some of the ways in which companies can help themselves to survive. These things may not have an immediate impact on large businesses, but in the long run they are a reflection of the process of enterprise differentiation.
《财经》：正如您说的,疫情带来的经济冲击不容忽视，“我们在风暴中真切地感受着风暴”。
Caijing: As you said, the economic impact of the epidemic cannot be ignored. "We really feel the storm in the storm."
战疫情的下半场是如何应对由此带来的经济风暴？刘俏：国务院总理李克强2月11日主持召开国务院常务会议，主张在全力以赴抓好疫情防控同时，加强经济运行调度和调节，保障有序恢复生产生活秩序,有序推进企业复工复产。
Premier Li Keqiang called an executive meeting of the State Council on Feb. 11, urging that every effort be made to ensure the prevention and control of the epidemic, strengthen economic operation and regulation, ensure orderly resumption of production and living order, and resume production in an orderly fashion.
这个方向非常重要。
This direction is very important.
我们面临的挑战是两个层面：一方面防控疫情刻不容缓，习总书记说“疫情就是命令，防控就是责任”，防控疫情扩散是重中之重，压倒一切。
The challenge is twofold: on the one hand, to prevent and control the epidemic without delay, General Xi said that "the epidemic is command, prevention and control is the responsibility," the spread of the epidemic is the highest priority, overriding.
另一方面，疫情带来的经济风暴。
On the other hand, the economic storm caused by the epidemic.
我认为，地方政府怎么科学理性地看待防控疫情这个事情很关键。
I think it is very important for local governments to scientifically and rationally look at the prevention and control of the epidemic.
地方政府不要把这两个目标对立起来，尽可能地把一些适合恢复的经济活动和市场活动恢复起来。
Local governments should not set these two goals against each other and try to revive as many economic and market activities as possible suitable for recovery.
同时，地方政府在制定政策的时候也要避免一些过度干预、过犹不及的政策，不要让企业的运营成本增加。
At the same time, local governments should avoid excessive intervention and over-zealous policies when formulating policies, so as not to increase the operating costs of enterprises.
在防控疫情的同时尊重市场规则，逐渐恢复市场活动，提升市场应对突发事件的能力和韧性，这本身也是国家综合治理能力不断提升的一个重要标志。
The prevention and control of the epidemic while respecting market rules, gradually restoring market activities and improving the ability and resilience of the market to respond to emergencies, is itself an important indicator of the country's growing capacity for integrated management.
目前可以看出各地在执法活动、经济活动，防控疫情方面，采取的举措有区别，各地的执政能力有差异。
At present, it can be seen that in law enforcement activities, economic activities, prevention and control of the epidemic, the initiatives taken are different, the ability to govern varies from place to place.
地方治理能力大考《财经》：目前个别城市已经启动了惠企政策，比如澳门、苏州、宁波等陆续出台给中小企业提供无息贷款等措施。
Some cities have launched preferential policies, such as offering interest-free loans to small and medium-sized enterprises in Macao, Suzhou and Ningbo.
您怎么评价地方政府一个多月的表现？刘俏：皮之不存毛将焉附。
How would you comment on the performance of the local government for more than a monthLiu Que: Nothing but skin.
如果企业出现倒闭潮，地方经济影响会更严重。
If businesses fail, the local economic impact will be more severe.
因此，一些地方政府出台对中小企业的减负等措施是非常明智的。
Therefore, some local governments have introduced measures to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises is very wise.
在防控疫情扩散的情况下，可能政府要发挥一定的重启经济活力的作用，政府有些导向性的鼓励性的政策，激励企业共同面对疫情。
In the context of controlling the spread of the epidemic, the Government may have to play a role in reactivating the economy, and the Government has adopted a policy of encouraging enterprises to face the epidemic together.
目前看到四川出台13条政策缓解中小企业生产经营困难；北京出台16条措施促进中小微企业发展；浙江省17条支持小微企业渡难关的措施；上海、广州出台保障企业正常经营秩序，实施失业保险稳岗返还等减负政策；无锡、苏州、厦门、青岛等城市都有具体措施出台。
So far, 13 policies have been adopted in Sichuan to ease the difficulties in the production and operation of small and medium-sized enterprises; 16 measures have been adopted in Beijing to promote the development of MSMEs; 17 measures have been taken in Zhejiang Province to support micro and small enterprises to tide over difficulties; and specific measures have been taken in Wuxi, Suzhou, Xiamen and Qingdao.
我觉得这些地方政府的做法值得总结推广。
I think the practices of these local governments are worth summarizing and popularizing.
比如针对不裁员或者减少裁员的企业，失业保险给企业返还一些，五险一金或者增值税、所得税这一块有比较灵活的安排，甚至国有资本可以发挥作用。
For example, for enterprises that do not lay off workers or reduce the number of layoffs, unemployment insurance gives some back to enterprises, five insurance money or value added tax, income tax has more flexible arrangements, even state capital can play a role.
通过这种应急方式，让中小微企业能继续运营下去。
Through this emergency approach, MSMEs can continue to operate.
这些应急措施、制度安排，体现出地方政府在应对重大突发性事件的时候，治理能力的强弱。
These emergency measures, institutional arrangements, reflect the local government in response to major sudden events, the strength of governance.
《财经》：一些地方为防止疫情扩散采取了切断物流、人流，封路、断路、封城、封人等做法，您怎么看？刘俏：公共危机应急管理切忌“单一维度”导向。
Caijing: In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, some places have adopted measures to cut off logistics, people flow, seal off roads, cut off roads, seal off cities and seal people, etc.
我还是强调两个维度，第一是防止疫情扩散。
I would like to emphasize two dimensions, the first of which is preventing the spread of the epidemic.
第二个维度就是尽可能恢复生产和就业。
The second dimension is restoring production and employment as much as possible.
采取科学合理的方式使职工返岗，也是对地方政府政策决策能力、治理能力的考验。
It is also a test of the policy decision-making ability and governance ability of local government to take scientific and reasonable way to make workers return to work.
这段时间，有些地方采取填表登记“防疫”等形式主义和官僚主义的做法。
During this time, some places have adopted the formalistic and bureaucratic practice of filling out forms and registering "epidemic prevention."
一些地方政府违反“依法、科学、有序防控”的防控原则，采取了极端绝对化、简单化、一刀切的抗疫措施，甚至引发衍生新的灾难。
Some local governments, in violation of the principle of "scientific, orderly control and prevention in accordance with the law," have adopted extremely absolute, simplistic and one-size-fits-all measures to combat the epidemic, even triggering new disasters.
比如，对外来车辆和人员“一刀切”劝返；物流限制、生产原材料不能及时运送，工人不能尽快返工，交通运输中断等，我更担心这一块连锁冲击会比较大一点。
For example, I am even more concerned about the one-size-fits-all persuasion of foreign vehicles and personnel, logistics restrictions, delays in the delivery of raw materials for production, delays in rework of workers, and disruption of transportation.
《财经》：2月3日，中央政治局常务委员会会议强调，在疫情防控工作中，要坚决反对形式主义、官僚主义，还有不敢担当、作风漂浮、推诿扯皮，要坚决问责。
On February 3, the Standing Committee of the Central Politburo stressed that in the prevention and control of the epidemic, we must resolutely oppose formalism and bureaucracy, dare not bear the responsibility, drift and prevaricate, and be firmly accountable.
同时也提到这次疫情对中国治理体系是一种考验。
It was also mentioned that the outbreak was a test of China's governance system.
刘俏：我认为地方切忌过度干预、采取一些过犹不及的政策，要尊重市场规则，逐渐恢复市场活动。
Liu: I think local authorities should refrain from excessive intervention, adopt policies that go too far, respect market rules and gradually resume market activities.
还是要尽量相信市场，完善市场运行机制，提升市场应对突发性事件的能力和韧性。
Still want to trust the market as much as possible, perfect the market operation mechanism, enhance the ability and tenacity of the market to deal with unexpected events.
这本身也是十八届三中全会讲到的，让市场在经济活动中、资源配置中起决定性作用的要求体现。
This in itself is the Third Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee to let the market in economic activities, the allocation of resources plays a decisive role in the requirements.
在这种应急情况下，地方政府需要明确一点，防控疫情跟应对经济风暴之间有一个平衡。
In such emergencies, local governments need to be clear that there is a balance between controlling the epidemic and dealing with economic storms.
考虑运用政府机制恢复正常的经济活动，发挥市场对这种突发事件的应对能力。
Consider the use of government mechanisms to restore normal economic activities, to give play to the ability of the market to respond to such emergencies.
从这个角度讲，我建议运输、邮政、快递、超市零售这些行业，还是需要想办法科学地恢复运转，保证物资运输和人民生活不受影响。
From this point of view, I suggest that the transport, postal, express delivery, supermarket retail industries, or to find a way to restore the operation of science to ensure that the transport of goods and people's lives will not be affected.
应该说地方政府抗疫中，交出了不同的答卷。
It should be said that local governments responded differently to the epidemic.
地方政府治理能力决定着国家治理体系和治理能力现代化的水平，党的十九届四中全会提出要全面推进国家治理体系和治理能力现代化，并将其作为全面深化改革的总目标。
The governance capacity of local governments determines the level of modernization of the national governance system and governance capacity. The 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) has proposed to comprehensively promote the modernization of the state governance system and governance capacity as the overall goal of the comprehensive and in-depth reform.
目前中国的政府绩效评估已经形成了新的绩效管理模式和绩效评估框架。
At present, China's government performance evaluation has formed a new performance management model and performance evaluation framework.
提升市场应对突发事件的能力和韧性，是体现国家综合治理能力不断提升的重要标志。
Improving the ability and resilience of the market to cope with unexpected events is an important symbol of the continuous improvement of the country's comprehensive management capacity.
防控疫情做好不容易，不计成本、不惜代价相对容易，不讲方法、不讲科学理性，矫枉过正也容易，但按照科学发展观、科学发展理念把工作做仔细，有真诚的“为人民服务”的意识不容易。
It is not easy to prevent and control the epidemic, regardless of cost or cost. It is not easy to explain the method, not to speak scientific reason and to correct it too easily.
目前已经看出各地政府应对的区别，看出各地执政治理能力的差异。
So far, we have seen the differences in the response of local governments and the differences in their ability to govern.
《财经》：这次疫情其实对中国的治理体系和能力是一场大考，面对疫情暴露的一些问题和体制上的羁绊，以及政府处理急难重灾方面的能力，都是一次检验。
Caijing: This outbreak is a great test of China's governance system and ability. It is also a test of the government's ability to deal with acute and severe disasters in the face of some of the problems and institutional constraints that the epidemic has exposed.
刘俏：我非常同意。
Liu: I quite agree with you.
实际上中国经济到高质量发展阶段，必须强调国家治理体系现代化。
Indeed, to reach a stage of high-quality development, China must emphasize the modernization of its system of governance.
在国家治理能力科学化的时候，疫情也有利于我们发现短板与不足。
When the national governance capacity is scientific, the epidemic situation is also conducive to our discovery of shortcomings and shortcomings.
其实地方政府在处理疫情所采取的态度，实施政策的精度和政策效果，是否考虑民众感受等各地差异非常明显的。
In fact, the attitude adopted by local governments in dealing with the epidemic, the accuracy of implementing policies and the effects of policies, whether to take into account the feelings of the people and other local differences are very obvious.
所以我倒觉得，过去的中国发展模式强调地方政府间的GDP竞赛，在新发展理念贯彻实施过程中，加上外界舆论的监督压力，地方政府已经朝这种社会治理能力，科学治理能力的竞赛转型了。
So it seems to me that the development model of China in the past emphasized the GDP competition between local governments. In the process of implementing the new development concept, combined with the pressure of external public opinion, local governments have turned to this kind of competition for the ability of social governance and scientific governance.
自媒体也好，公众舆论也好，对地方政府的认可或批评都起到了监督作用，对地方政府的评价维度发生了一些根本性的变化。
From the media, public opinion, local government's recognition or criticism have played a supervisory role, local government evaluation dimension has undergone some fundamental changes.
地方政府的政策出台对民意的反映变得比以前更敏感，这是一件好事情。
It is good that local government policies have become more responsive to public opinion than ever before.
这场疫情风暴终将会平息下去，但是它折射出来的一些变化，给我们提供的经验和教训，更有利于一个国家的经济转型、社会治理转型。
This epidemic storm will eventually calm down, but it refracts some changes, gives us the experience and the lesson, is more advantageous to a country's economic transformation, the social governance transition.
我认为或许这次疫情会促使地方政府间的“增长锦标赛”，慢慢（转变为）侧重治理能力的“公共治理锦标赛”。
I think perhaps the outbreak will prompt a "growth championship" among local governments, slowly (and gradually) a "public governance tournament" that focuses on governance.
希望这次疫情是促使转换的转折点。
Hopefully this outbreak will be a turning point in the transition.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
刘俏：抗疫是地方治理能力的大考。
Liu Que: Anti-epidemic is a big test of local governance ability.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "刘俏：抗疫是地方治理能力的大考";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Liu: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "各级政府的绩效考评正在从“增长锦标赛”逐渐转为侧重治理能力、治理体系的新绩效评估框架，这次疫情可能是转折点";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
