应对全球供应链变局：部分产业停摆断链，但不必长期恐慌。
Coping with the global supply chain shift: Some industries have broken the chain, but without long-term panic.
蔡婷贻。
CHOI Ying-yee.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
一些防疫措施影响到部分零部件加工生产，部分跨国公司订单中断。
Some epidemic prevention measures affected some parts and components processing production, some transnational corporation orders were interrupted.
供应链较长且分工复杂的汽车和电子制造行业，压力更加明显。
The longer supply chain and the complex division of labor in the automotive and electronics manufacturing industry, the pressure is more obvious.
但此次疫情并不会对供应链产生可以衡量的长期影响。
But the epidemic will not have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain.
中国花30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代文|《财经》记者蔡婷贻驻华盛顿特派记者 金焱编辑| 王延春2月18日美国苹果公司发出財务预警指出，由于在中国的代工工厂受疫情影响恢复运作比预期慢，因此至3月底为止的季度营收可能无法达标。
China's 30-year supply chain cannot be completely replaced in the short term; China Business reporter Cai Tingyi, an editor and Yan Wang at Washington, may not be able to meet quarterly revenue targets until the end of March, as agency plants in China have resumed operations more slowly than expected because of the epidemic.
消息一出，苹果股价一度跌2%，带动其它亚洲零部件供应商股价下滑。
Shares of Apple fell 2 per cent in the wake of the news, driving shares of other Asian parts suppliers down.
在苹果发出预警之前，韩国现代汽车就因为零部件供应缺口，在2月初暂停韩国的数个组装厂一周; 日产汽车也因为同样原因暂停九州厂的生产。
The warning came after Hyundai suspended several assembly plants in South Korea for a week in early February because of a shortage of spare parts, and Nissan suspended production at Kyushu for the same reason.
日本游戏公司任天堂2月6日通过推特向消费者宣布，新版Switch受到疫情影响将延迟销售；接着美国玩具公司MGA 指出，疫情已经影响到圣诞节玩具出货，目前情况“让人非常挫折”。
Japan's Nintendo said on Tuesday that it would delay sales of its new Switch product because of the epidemic, and the U.S. toy company MGA said the situation was "very frustrating" as it affected shipments of Christmas toys.
随着新型冠状病毒疫情蔓延，中国各地工厂和工人配合落实相关防疫措施，有的延迟复工，有的产能不足，对全球制造业供应链造成不同程度冲击，不少产业面临停摆或断链，其中电子业和汽车制造业尤为明显。
With the spread of the new coronavirus epidemic, factories and workers across China have cooperated in implementing relevant epidemic prevention measures, some of which have delayed the resumption of work or have insufficient production capacity, thus causing varying degrees of impact on the global manufacturing supply chain.
传统制造业服装、制鞋和玩具业等也因工厂延迟开工或产线无法完全恢复而开始担心下半年的产品供应短缺。
Traditional manufacturing industries such as clothing, footwear and toys are also beginning to worry about shortages in the second half of the year because factories are running late or production lines are not fully recovering.
美国商会上海分会2月11-14日针对109家长三角美商调查显示，48%接受调查企业的全球业务已经受到疫情影响。
Forty-eight percent of the businesses surveyed in the Shanghai branch of the American Chamber of Commerce were affected by the epidemic, according to a survey of 109 American businesses in the Yangtze River Delta region on February 11-14.
其中35%企业指出，目前最需要做的就是允许工厂复工，78%接受调查企业指出，他们缺乏足够人员来恢复全产能，41%企业强调缺工是他们在未来2－4周遇到的最大问题。
Of these, 35 per cent said that what was needed most was to allow factories to return to work, 78 per cent said they lacked sufficient staff to restore full capacity, and 41 per cent highlighted job absenteeism as their biggest problem in the next two to four weeks.
复工后的保护措施是这些企业的首要挑战，38%企业表示他们缺乏足够口罩和其他防护措施；接着产品完成后的运输也需要克服，30%企业指出他们最大的担忧是物流问题；最后，58%企业担心未来数月市场需求会低于常态。
Post-work protection is a major challenge for these enterprises, with 38 per cent indicating that they lack adequate masks and other protective measures; then transport needs to be overcome once the product is completed; 30 per cent indicate that their biggest concern is logistics; and, lastly, 58 per cent fear that market demand will be below normal in the coming months.
中国国家发改委运行局二级巡视员唐社民在2月19日的新闻发布会上指出，复工是个过程，对中小企业、小微企业挑战在于返岗工人不足、交通物流不畅、产业链配套不足等，有关方面正在积极想办法。
At a press conference on February 19, China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) Operations Bureau Inspector Tang Che-min said: "Resumption of work is a process. The challenge for SMEs and micro and small enterprises lies in the shortage of returning workers, poor transport logistics and inadequate industrial chains.
经济学人智库分析师马志昂(Nick Marro)对《财经》记者分析指出，为抗疫出台的政策是中断供应链的主要原因，包括隔离政策、工厂强行关闭、延长假期造成制造活动的中断是造成全球供应链可能断链的因素。
Nick Marro, an economist with the Economist, told Caijing that policies to combat the epidemic were the main cause of supply chain disruptions, including segregation policies, forced plant closures, and disruptions in manufacturing activity caused by extended holidays.
新加坡AC贸易咨询公司周美玲(Angelia Chew)对《财经》记者表示，原物料和零部件的供应缺口是中国以外制造商面对的迫切问题、物流是第二个问题，“有的尽管找到材料，但是飞机禁运。
Angelia Chew, a Singapore-based trade consultancy, told Caijing that the gap in the supply of raw materials and spare parts was a pressing problem for manufacturers outside China.
”以检疫严格著称的澳大利亚，在2月初就宣布对2月1日自国内港口出发的船舶进行14天隔离。
Australia, known for its quarantine restrictions, announced in early February a 14-day quarantine of ships leaving its ports in the country on February 1.
不仅如此，让企业更感挫折的是疫情持续时间带来的不确定因素，毕竟贸然复工带来的感染风险又可能换来14天停工。
Moreover, what makes companies more frustrated is the uncertainty about the duration of the outbreak, which could turn into a 14-day hiatus for the risk of infection.
欧盟商会主席伍德克指出，尽管企业在慢慢复工，但是挑战非常大，“还要持续多久, 大家只能猜想。
Mr Wuttke, chairman of the European Chamber of Commerce, notes that while companies are slowly returning to work, the challenge is enormous: "How much longer is left is anyone's guess.
”据了解，中国是全世界唯一拥有联合国产业分类当中全部工业门类的国家。
China is understood to be the only country in the world to have all the industrial categories in the UN industrial classification.
在世界500多种主要工业产品当中，中国有220多种工业产品的产量居全球第一。
Among the more than 500 major industrial products in the world, China ranks first in the output of more than 220 industrial products.
在中美贸易战及新冠肺炎疫情的相继冲击之下，中国制造业供应链体系的长期稳定全引发关注。
The long-term stability of China's manufacturing supply chain under the impact of China-US trade war and the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak has aroused concern.
“制造心脏”会否停摆？根据麦肯锡咨询公司2019年发表的中国与世界报告指出，自2003年以来，中国对全球经济的依赖在降低，但是全球经济对中国的依赖却在增加。
Will "make the heart" stop? According to China and the World Report, published in 2019 by McKinsey & amp; Company, China's dependence on the global economy has decreased since 2003, but the global economy's dependence on China has increased.
报告指出，中国自2009年成为全球最大出口国，2013年成为最大货物贸易国，全球货物贸易占比从2000年的1.9%提升到2017年的11.4%。
According to the report, China had become the world's largest exporter since 2009 and the largest trading country for goods in 2013, with the share of global trade in goods rising from 1.9 per cent in 2000 to 11.4 per cent in 2017.
同时中国也是33个国家的最大出口国，65个国家的最大进口国。
China is also the largest exporter of 33 countries and the largest importer of 65.
该报告估算，中国对全球制造的贡献达35%, 其中零部件占外国品牌手机的35％-50％，农业机械的60％-80%，电子汽车的60％-75%。
The report estimates China's contribution to global manufacturing at 35 per cent, with parts and components accounting for 35-50 per cent of foreign brand phones, 60-80 per cent of agricultural machinery and 60-75 per cent of electronic vehicles.
商业机构邓白氏(Dun&Bradstreet) 2月11日发布的报告指出，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情影响的主要行业依序为服务业、批发业和制造业，这几个行业的65%相关业务在疫情感染区域内。
A February 11 report from business firm Dun & amp; Bradstreet said the major industries affected by the new coronavirus pneumonia are services, wholesale and manufacturing, with 65% of the businesses in those sectors affected by the outbreak.
但是在供应链的紧密分工下，缺少一个小螺丝或弹簧，就可能导致整个产品无法完成制造。
But the lack of a small screw or spring in the supply chain's tight division of labour can prevent the entire product from being manufactured.
以一个10元人民币的美容产品容器为例，需要塑料瓶身、弹簧和钢珠组成压頭，因为空瓶占空间，美容产品厂家平时不预留库存，但是现在受疫情影响，全球美容产品业者面临买不到空瓶的困境而无法出货。
A 10 yuan beauty container, for example, requires plastic bottles, springs and steel balls to press on to the surface because empty bottles take up space and beauty makers don't keep stock at all, but now, affected by the epidemic, the global beauty industry faces the dilemma of not buying an empty bottle to ship.
部分中国台湾地区的从业者考虑向韩国下单时，却发现韩国厂商的生产基地也在中国大陆。
When some Chinese Taiwan practitioners considered placing orders with South Korea, they found that South Korean producers were also based in mainland China.
中国贡献80%的全球玩具生产也受到疫情影响。
China's contribution to 80 per cent of global toy production is also affected by the epidemic.
以美国玩具公司MGA为例，该公司签约的50家国内厂商通常在农历年后开始生产秋季和圣诞节订单，但是疫情导致工厂复工延迟，该公司总裁拉兰(Issac Larian)指出，“2020年的圣诞节就是12月25日，你不可能把它延后。
The U.S. toy company MGA, for example, has 50 domestic manufacturers that typically start placing fall and Christmas orders after the Lunar New Year, but the epidemic has delayed the resumption of factory work.
”美国供应链咨询公司Sourcify芮氏尼克 (Nathan Resnick)对《财经》指出，各个行业现在都在急着寻找新的替代供应商。
Nathan Resnick, a US supply chain consultancy, told Caijing that industries were scrambling to find new alternative suppliers.
国内厂商对供应链的缺口也十分着急。
Domestic producers are also anxious about the supply chain gap.
五洋纺织总经理王水对《财经》记者指出，配套的外协单位，像铸造、电镀、发黑、热处理等行业复工进度较为缓慢，影响到整个生产供应链。
Wang Shuihui, general manager of Wuyang Textile, told Caijing that related foreign coordination units, such as casting, electroplating, blackening, heat treatment and other industries are slow to resume work, affecting the entire production supply chain.
他预估影响可能要持续到4-5月份，“第一季的数据估计不能看。
He estimates the impact will likely continue into April-May, "first-quarter estimates don't look good."
我做最坏的打算，储备3个月的流动资金，度过难关，纺织行业打击还是很大的。
I prepared for the worst, three months of liquidity reserves to tide over the difficulties, the textile industry is still hit hard.
”在电子产品制造上，各工厂产能缩减之外，核心原料的供应不及也影响最终产品的组装。
In electronics manufacturing, the lack of supply of core materials, in addition to reduced capacity in factories, also affects the assembly of final products.
制造电视机、钟表、汽车玻璃所需的稀土生产，由于货车司机拒绝进出疫区，稀土供应一旦出现短缺，电子产品制造面临中断危机。
Production of rare earths for television sets, clocks and car glass is at risk of disruption in electronics manufacturing once truckers refuse to move into or out of affected areas and rare earth supplies are in short supply.
就算原物料供应解决，企业内部的防疫是另一层挑战。
Even if the original material supply solution, the enterprise's internal epidemic prevention is another challenge.
手机传感器供应商对《财经》记者指出，疫情蔓延造成工厂目前只能回复40%的产能，其他零部件厂的情况也大概如此。
Cell-phone sensor suppliers told Caijing that the spread of the epidemic is now allowing factories to recover only 40% of their capacity, as is likely to be the case at other parts plants.
主要原因除了工人回到工厂需要先隔离14天以外，目前复工的工厂要求工人需间隔2公尺。
The main reason is that, apart from the fact that workers have to be quarantined for 14 days before returning to work, factories now require workers to be separated by 2 metres.
如果疫情能顺利控制，产能完全恢复最快也要到4月。
If the outbreak is under control, full recovery in capacity could be achieved as soon as April.
负责组装iPhone、全球桌上型电脑、笔记型电脑等电子产品制造商的富士康为了复工， 2月5日开始在广东龙华试产口罩，希望2月底达日产2百万个口罩的目标。
Foxconn, which assembles electronic goods such as iPhones, desktops and laptops, began testing its mask in Longhua, Guangdong, on February 5, hoping to reach its goal of producing 2 million masks a day by the end of February.
富士康台湾母公司鸿海精密2月20日公告指出，目前复工较为谨慎，疫情对全年营收将带来负面影响。
Foxconn Taiwan parent Hon Hai Precision announced February 20 that the resumption of work is more cautious, the epidemic will have a negative impact on annual revenue.
根据报道，富士康郑州厂和深圳厂受到较大冲击，目前正缓慢复工。
According to reports, Foxconn Zhengzhou Factory and Shenzhen Factory have been a big impact, is now slowly resuming work.
上述传感器业者指出，这次疫情意外中断的制造对企业造成严重的心理冲击，为了规避风险所有外籍干部暂时不用到疫区出差，接下来“欧美产品的零部件制造都得考虑移出中国以分散风险…后面的客户要求已形成庞大压力。
In order to avoid the risk, all foreign cadres should not have to travel to the affected areas for business. Next, "the manufacturing of parts and components from Europe and the United States will have to consider moving out of China to spread the risks... and the subsequent customer demands have created a huge pressure."
”不过，Cox Pacific 咨询机构负责人贺翔对《财经》记者指出，中国花30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代，部分国家和企业领导人或者过度恐慌了，“没有足够的理由让人们这样恐慌。
However, Cox Pacific's head of consultancy He Xiang told Caijing that China's 30-year-old supply chain could not be completely replaced in the short term, and that some state and corporate leaders were either too panicky and "there is not enough reason to panic."
我相信它会对供应链产生一些短期的影响，一些订单会被延迟或重新规划，也很可能出现短缺的问题，但是我不认为此次2019-nCoV 病毒爆发对供应链会产生可以衡量的长期影响。
I believe it will have some short-term impact on the supply chain, some orders will be delayed or reprogrammed, and there will likely be shortages, but I don't think the 2019-nCoV outbreak will have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain.
”周美玲也强调，尽管欧美客户希望分散风险，但是东南亚国家无论在基础设施、工人数量和技术上都无法立即承接转单，全球对中国制造的依赖短期间无法取代，“只要能克服这次挑战，需求还是在。
Ms Zhou also stressed that, while clients in Europe and the US wanted to spread risk, Southeast Asian countries could not immediately accept orders in terms of infrastructure, number of workers and technology, and global dependence on Chinese-made goods could not be replaced in the short term, "as long as this challenge can be overcome, demand remains."
”汽车业首当其冲一辆汽车的组装需要3万个零件，缺一不可。
The auto industry is leading the way with 30,000 parts needed to assemble a car.
包括德国博世、德尔福、法雷奥、弗吉亚、伟士通、安波福等国际零部件大厂都聚集在湖北，日产武汉工厂年生产汽车150万辆，现代生产70万辆，因此蔓延的疫情首当其冲的影响汽车制造业。
International parts and components factories including Bosch, Delphi, Farreo, Virginia, Vistatu and Ambofu are all concentrated in Hubei, where Nissan Wuhan factory produces 1.5 million cars a year and 700,000 modern cars.
在这波疫情下，现代汽车，日产、菲亚特.克莱斯勒、和美国GM都陆续因为零部件短缺被迫关闭中国以外的工厂，其中菲亚特.克莱斯勒关闭的组装厂更远在塞尔维亚。
Hyundai Motor, Nissan, Fiat. Chrysler, and GM in the US have all been forced to close factories outside China because of a shortage of spare parts, with Fiat. Chrysler closing assembly plants further afield in Serbia.
全球汽车业这次遭到前所未有的冲击，背后原因是对中国制造的依赖。
The global auto industry has been hit as never before by reliance on Chinese-made goods.
日本贸易振兴机构数据显示，日本2018年自中国进口的零部件达3470亿日元，为2003年非典爆发时的10倍。
Japan's imports of parts and components from China reached 347bn yen in 2018, 10 times the amount at the time of the 2003 outbreak, according to the Japan Trade Revitalization Authority.
丰田和本田等近年来加大采用中国制造的零部件，包括浙江生产的椅套、上海制造的安全带等，丰田对媒体表示部分零部件目前仍无法找到替代供应。
Toyota and Honda have increased their use of Chinese-made parts in recent years, including seat covers made in Zhejiang and those made in Shanghai, and Toyota has told the media that some parts are still unavailable.
伦敦市场调研机构HISMarkit指出，如果以2003年SARS最后将疫情控制住的经验来估算，汽车制造减少可能达170万辆。
Using the 2003 SARS outbreak as a last-ditch effort to contain the epidemic, auto manufacturing could shrink by as much as 1.7 million vehicles, according to HISMarkit, a London-based market research firm.
其中德国汽车企业和制造商被认为是欧洲企业中最大受害者。
German car companies and manufacturers are considered the biggest victims among European companies.
伯恩斯坦研究公司指出，因为疫情，福斯和BMW 2020年前半年的获利可能下调5%。
Because of the outbreak, Forth and BMW could see a 5% drop in profits in the first half of 2020, according to Bernstein Research.
目前，最受瞩目的是全球汽车零部件营业额首位的德国企业博世，行政总裁邓纳尔(VolkmarDenner) 1月底对媒体指出“我们自然会担心，不过目前看来，我们的业务和供应链没有中断（的问题）。
"We are naturally worried, but for now it seems that our business and supply chain have not broken down," Volkmar Denner, the German company with the world's largest turnover of auto parts, told reporters in late January.
”博世2月中对《财经》记者表示，大部分博世在中国的工厂都已经恢复生产，“我们遵照地方和中央政府的要求，不断的评估情形，同时就各种可能准备了不同方案。
Mr Bosch told Caijing in mid-February that most of Bosch's factories in China had resumed production, saying "we are constantly assessing the situation and preparing different options for the possibilities, as required by local and central governments."
对业务的具体影响取决于疫情未来的发展，现在还无法预估。
The specific impact on operations will depend on the future course of the epidemic, which cannot be predicted.
”博世在武汉有2个工厂雇佣800名员工，主要制造转向系统和热力技术。
Bosch employs 800 people at two plants in Wuhan, which specialise in steering systems and thermal technology.
这两个工厂原本预期配合湖北省政策在20日深夜复工，但是随着疫情仍未能完全控制，省政府已将复工日延至3月11日。
The two factories were expected to resume work late at night on March 20 in line with Hubei province policy, but the provincial government has extended the resumption date to March 11 as the outbreak remains unchecked.
博世自1909年后进入中国，在中国有23个制造厂，除了武汉，在南京、芜湖、无锡和太仓等分别制造电池、刹车系统等零部件。
Bosch has entered China since 1909 and has 23 manufacturing plants in China, including parts for batteries, brakes and other parts in Nanjing, Wuhu, Wuxi and Taicang.
邓纳尔去年就对全球汽车市场表示悲观，特别指出中国和印度市场的需求薄弱使全球汽车制造面临下滑。
Mr. Donnell last year expressed pessimism about the global auto market, noting in particular that weak demand in China and India is driving down global auto manufacturing.
另一家零部件大厂安波福首席财务官马斯洛(Joseph Massaro)指出，疫情对营业额影响取决于工人什么时候能回到工作岗位，他预期中国第一季汽车制造下滑15%，但是他希望这部分损失最后能透过其他三个季度的加班来弥补。
Joseph Massaro, chief financial officer at Anpoff, another major parts company, said the impact on turnover would depend on when workers return to work and he expected China's car manufacturing to fall 15% in the first quarter, but he hoped the losses would eventually be covered by three other quarters of overtime.
伟士通则透过邮件对《财经》表示，他们正紧密监控疫情影响，但是目前无法就业务影响进行评论。
Mr Weiss told Caijing by e-mail that they were closely monitoring the impact of the outbreak but could not comment on the business impact.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
应对全球供应链变局：部分产业停摆断链，但不必长期恐慌。
Coping with the global supply chain shift: Some industries have broken the chain, but without long-term panic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "应对全球供应链变局：部分产业停摆断链，但不必长期恐慌";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Responding to global supply-chain change: Some industries have broken chains, but not necessarily AT & quot; long-term.
var msg_desc = "一些防疫措施影响到部分零部件加工生产，部分跨国公司订单中断。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Some immunization measures affected parts processing and some TNC orders were interrupted.
供应链较长且分工复杂的汽车和电子制造行业，压力更加明显。
The longer supply chain and the complex division of labor in the automotive and electronics manufacturing industry, the pressure is more obvious.
但此次疫情并不会对供应链产生可以衡量的长期影响。
But the epidemic will not have a measurable long-term impact on the supply chain.
中国花30年打造的供应链，短期内无法被完全取代";。
China's 30-year supply chain cannot be completely replaced by AT & quot; in the short term.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
