严防病从口入：起底野味产业链，整肃需要下重拳。
Strict prevention of disease from the mouth: bottom game industry chain, purging needs a heavy blow.
马霖。
Ma Lin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
非典疫情以来，科学界和动物保护领域都在呼吁禁止野生动物交易，但以“野味”为代表，近年来交易渠道反而越来越广，从活鲜、农批市场扩大到快手、火山等网络平台，多种野生动物都有从捕猎、运输到贩卖的成熟利益网。
Since the SARS epidemic, both the scientific community and animal protection circles have been calling for a ban on wildlife trade, but in recent years, represented by "game," trading channels have become more and more extensive, ranging from live, farm-batch markets to fast-moving, volcanic platforms, with a rich network of wildlife ranging from hunting to transportation to trafficking.
问题出在哪里？如何有效整肃？能否引导消费者摒弃对野味的畸形消费偏好？文|《财经》记者 马霖编辑|余乐一斤野生蛇几百块，做出一锅蛇汤几千元；野生穿山甲一只几百块，穿山甲汤售价上万元。
What's the problem? How to purge it effectively? Can consumers be coaxed out of their deformed consumption preferences for game? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
西北地区流行吃野生黄羊，卖一只黄羊就是当地人一个月的工资。
Wild yellow sheep are popular in the Northwest. Selling a yellow sheep is the local people's salary for a month.
在快手上，盗猎者写一句隐晦的“高速收费站建好了”，意思是他们已经埋伏好猎夹、猎套；“已收费”的意思是“捕到猎物了”，懂的人自然懂。
In a flash point, poachers write a cryptic phrase "high-speed toll booths have been built," meaning they have ambushed hunting clips and hunting jackets.
安徽宣城、庐江等地，约十公里的山路边铺满了偷盗者私设的电网，江西、湖南、湖北的山里也铺电网，上面是被一万多伏的电网电死的麂子、野猪。
Around 10 kilometers of roads in Xuancheng and Lujiang, Anhui province, are lined with power grids set up by thieves, while those in Jiangxi, Hunan and Hubei are lined with suede and wild boar, which have been electrocuted by more than 10,000 volts of power grid.
有些动物的蹄子已经被电得卷起来。
The hooves of some animals have been rolled up with electricity.
浙江淳安县千岛湖， “野味”贩子在市场附近的马路上公开宰杀销售麂子、野猪，据说他们还持有合法证件。
In Qiandao Lake, Chun'an County, Zhejiang, "venison" traders kill and sell suede and wild boar in public on the street near the market. They are also said to be in possession of legal documents.
新冠肺炎疫情蔓延，野生动物违法交易依然存在，网上仍有盗猎工具出售。
The New Crown Pneumonia epidemic is spreading, illegal trade in wildlife persists, and poaching tools are still available on the Internet.
在深圳一家大酒楼里，打工者钟华平看到过标价昂贵的穿山甲。
In a Shenzhen restaurant, migrant worker Zhong Huaping has seen pricey pangolins.
它们尾巴长长的，看到后厨的人走过去，会像小孩一样在笼子里找地方躲，紧张地缩成一团。
They had long tails and would huddle nervously as they watched the cook go by, looking for shelter in a cage like a child.
他还记得第一次看到一只活的穿山甲如何从生到死，成为酒楼食客盘中餐的场景。
He remembered seeing a live pangolin for the first time, from birth to death, as a restaurant dining scene.
“后厨处理穿山甲，是用刀砸穿山甲的脑袋，一刀不行，就砸两刀，穿山甲被放血，开水烫，拔掉鳞片，直到露出白色的躯体。
"When the chef handles pangolin, he hits the pangolin in the head with a knife. If he doesn't do it, he cuts twice.
”客人要点穿山甲，不会直接说，而是问有没有“地鼠”，因为穿山甲喜欢用爪子刨地。
Guests asked for pangolin, not directly, but if there were "ground mice," because pangolins like to have their claws scratched the ground.
厨房的人曾鼓动他尝一块穿山甲肉，说现在不尝这辈子没机会了，钟华平吃了一口，内心的排斥让他生理上感到恶心，那次之后，他不想再吃第二口所谓“野味”。
The kitchen staff had urged him to taste a piece of pangolin, saying that he would not have a chance in his life. Zhong Hua-ping took a bite, his inner repulsion made him physically nauseous, and after that he did not want to eat a second so-called game.
2003年，非典疫情在钟华平的老家广东爆发。
In 2003, the SARS epidemic broke out in Guangdong, Zhong Huaping's hometown.
广东曾下令紧急扑杀病毒中间宿主果子狸，关闭可能滋生、传播病毒的野生动物交易市场。
Guangdong has ordered an emergency attack on beavers, the intermediate host of the virus, to shut down wildlife markets that could breed and spread the virus.
但疫情过去后，果子狸又回到了许多人的“野味”餐桌上。
But when the outbreak was over, civet beavers returned to many people's "game" table.
非典疫情发生之后，科学界和动物保护领域都在呼吁禁止野生动物交易，但涵盖“野味”的野生动物交易并未偃旗息鼓，近年来交易渠道反而越来越广。
In the wake of the SARS epidemic, both the scientific community and animal protection groups have called for a ban on wildlife trade, but the wildlife trade, which covers "game," has not subsided and has become more widely traded in recent years.
从活鲜、农批市场扩大到快手、火山等网络平台上，各种野生动物都有从捕猎、运输到贩卖的成熟利益网。
From live, farm batch market to fast hand, volcano and other network platforms, all kinds of wild animals have a mature profit network from hunting, transportation to trafficking.
甚至新冠肺炎疫情当下，市场监管总局等三部委宣布至疫情解除禁止野生动物交易，此类交易还在进行，凸显了野生动物交易管理之难。
Even with the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, three ministries, including the General Administration of Market Regulation, announced that the ban on wildlife trade was still in place until the outbreak was lifted, underscoring the difficulty of regulating wildlife trade.
此次新冠肺炎疫情逼迫我们重新审视人与野生动物的关系。
The new outbreak of pneumonia is forcing us to re-examine the relationship between humans and wildlife.
研究表明，与2003年的非典疫情一样，新冠病毒很有可能是源自人与野生动物非自然接触的人畜共患病毒，自然宿主也很可能同样是蝙蝠，而中间宿舍则初步判断为穿山甲。
Studies have shown that, like the 2003 SARS epidemic, the new strain is most likely a result of human-animal-to-human contact with wild animals. The natural host is likely to be a bat, while the intermediate dormitory is initially thought to be a pangolin.
钟华平觉得，新冠肺炎疫情是人类又一次在自己布下的陷阱中跌倒。
Zhong Huaping thinks, new crown pneumonic disease is the mankind once again falls in the trap which oneself sows.
疫情背后的“野味”交易在酒楼里，钟华平也看到过几百条蛇被关在逼仄的网袋里，几小时后，这些动物就会成为餐桌上的“野味宴”。
The "game" trade behind the epidemic has seen hundreds of snakes confined in cramped nets in restaurants, making them "game dinners" within hours.
这样的大酒楼通常有两个厨房，一个是普通厨房，一个是野味厨房，“这些动物不好处理，”野味厨房要开一个后门，方便把野生动物运进来或者把处理完的“垃圾”丢出去。
Such restaurants typically have two kitchens, a common kitchen and a game kitchen. "These animals are not easy to handle," says the venison kitchen, which opens a back door to bring in wild animals or dump the "trash" that has been disposed of.
他知道做“野味”是灰色，甚至非法的，“同事处理蛇时被蛇分泌的毒液弄伤眼睛，去医院都不敢说自己是做野味弄伤的。
He knew that "venison" was gray, even illegal, and that "coworkers who deal with snakes get their eyes hurt by snake venom and don't dare to call themselves game wounds."
”“野味”是暴利生意，捕猎几乎零成本，偷盗来的野生动物从农村的盗猎者到贩子，再到酒楼、食客，价格可以翻很多倍。
"Game" is a lucrative business that costs virtually nothing to hunt, and stolen wildlife can go up in price many times over, from poachers to dealers in the countryside to restaurants and diners.
“一斤蛇几百块，做出一锅蛇汤几千，穿山甲一只几百块，穿山甲汤售价上万。
"" A catty of snakes a few hundred, make a pot of snake soup a few thousand, pangolin a few hundred, pangolin soup tens of thousands.
”那时候他端盘子战战兢兢，生怕倒了蛇汤、穿山甲汤赔不起。
"Then he held the plate trembling lest he should pour out the snake soup or the pangolin soup.
“很多人都有用珍奇食材招待贵客的欲望，攀比心也在作祟，无论好不好吃，谁能吃得起贵的、稀有的，说明谁更有地位、有渠道。
"Many people have a desire to entertain guests with rare materials, and their hearts are also haunting. No matter how good or bad they are, who can afford the expensive and rare and show who has more status and access.
”钟华平说，做穿山甲这种国家二级保护动物的野味生意容易被查，因此酒楼主要做熟客生意，或者有人介绍，一个地区的酒楼之间相互认识，没有需求的野生动物会转卖给别的酒楼。
Zhong Huaping said that being a state-level game trade protecting animals like pangolins was easy to spot, so restaurants mainly deal in familiar customers, or people say that restaurants in one area know each other and wild animals that don't need it are resold to other restaurants.
在内陆西北地区，非法盗猎和野味食用同样在一部人群中存在。
Illegal poaching and game consumption are also common in some parts of the inland northwest.
西北某地流行吃野生黄羊，黄羊是国家二级保护动物。
Wild yellow sheep are popular in some places in northwest China. Yellow sheep are the second-order protected animals in China.
中卫野生动物保护志愿者李根山告诉《财经》记者，一斤黄羊卖60-90元，一只平均40斤，卖一只黄羊就是当地人一个月的工资，诱惑很大。
Li Genshan, a Zhongwei wildlife volunteer, told Caijing that a catty of yellow sheep costs 60-90 yuan, an average of 40 pounds.
黄羊一年只产一胎，前些年一群羊有近20只，现在一群羊只有五六只。
The sheep only give birth to one child a year. Whereas in previous years there were nearly 20 sheep in a flock, there are only five or six.
“2000年初，中卫当地曾大张旗鼓开‘野味’餐厅，那几年是明着卖，这几年是暗着卖，吃爆炒黄羊、红烧黄羊肉，其实黄羊肉肉粗，并不好吃。
"In early 2000, Zhongwei opened a large-scale 'game' restaurant, which was sold openly in those years. In recent years, it was selling stealthily, eating fried yellow sheep and red-hot mutton.
”除了所谓珍贵的野味，普通野生动物也是餐桌上的牺牲品。
Besides the so-called precious game, ordinary wildlife is also a victim of the dinner table.
根据相关数据，在这张野味地图上，南方整体比北方食用得多，盗猎、销售则发生在全国各地。
According to relevant data, in this game map, the South as a whole than the North to eat more, poaching, sales took place throughout the country.
广东、广西、云南、福建、浙江、江西、安徽、四川、湖北、湖南、东北地区的野味消费更集中，野猪、麂子、果子狸、花面狸、斑鸠、青蛙、竹鼠、蛇、野鸡、野鸭、野鸟、豪猪、刺猬、雪豹、大雁等许多野生动物都会被盗猎销售。
Game consumption is more concentrated in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Fujian, Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Anhui, Sichuan, Hubei, Hunan and Northeast regions, where wild boar, suede, civet, beaver, turtledove, frog, bamboo rat, snake, pheasant, wild duck, wild bird, porcupine, hedgehog, snow leopard, wild goose, etc.
一些省份主要做野味的输出，比如在陕西和四川交界处，盗猎贩子抓了野生动物，多会运到四川的消费市场，比如麂子、毛冠鹿。
Some provinces export mainly game, for example, at the border between Shaanxi and Sichuan, where poachers catch wild animals that are often shipped to consumer markets in Sichuan, such as suede and capped deer.
捕捉发生在山区、水边，贩子收来野生动物，拿到活鲜、农批市场去卖，餐厅从农批市场采购，或由贩子配送，往往在当地就能形成一条成熟的利益链。
Capture occurs in mountain areas, along watersides, where traders collect wildlife for sale at live, farm-batch markets, where restaurants are purchased or distributed by traffickers, often creating a mature chain of interests.
一些村民也吃野味，他们不太明白这些满地跑的动物为什么不应该吃。
Some villagers also eat game, they do not understand why these animals should not eat everywhere.
广东饶平县开有大量野味餐厅，餐厅辟出屋子放置野生动物，笼子一层一层，“这些地方卫生条件都不好，熏的不行。
There are a lot of game restaurants in Raoping County in Guangdong Province. They have rooms with wild animals on the floor.
”中国生物多样性保护与绿色发展基金会志愿者刘懿丹告诉《财经》记者。
Liu Yidan, a volunteer at the China Biodiversity Conservation and Green Development Foundation, told Caijing.
刘懿丹曾去过佛山南海区一个水产批发市场，那里十几家销售野生动物的店挨着，笼子里关着豹猫、果子狸、鹭鸟、蛇、竹鼠等，屋子里除了账本，到处是蟑螂。
Liu Yidan has been to a wholesale aquaculture market in Foshan's South China Sea where a dozen shops selling wild animals are caged with leopard cats, beavers, egrets and egrets, snakes and bamboo mice.
她说，天津的王顶堤批发市场也长期售卖“野味”，一些酒楼里有野兔、野鸡、野鸭，和从东北收来的狍子。
She said Tianjin's Wang Dingdi Wholesale Market has long sold "game", with rabbits, pheasants, wild ducks, and Roe deer collected from the Northeast.
新冠肺炎疫情当下，涉嫌违法的野生动物交易依然在进行。
With the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the trade in wildlife suspected of breaking the law continues.
2月3日，云南大理祥云县森林公安局查获一只被非法捕猎的黄喉貂，属国家二级保护动物；2月13日，野保志愿者在湖北襄阳下属老河口市王莆洲水电站附近发现60多只非正常死亡的野生鸟类，警方在抓获的犯罪嫌疑人家中搜到了大量鸟尸体和疑似毒死野生动物的药品；疫情发生以来，安徽安溪县共发现涉及非法捕猎、无证养殖野生动物案件4起，涉及上百只滑鼠蛇、水律蛇、稚鸡等野生动物，野生动物制品33.3公斤；至今广西桂林仍有店在销售非法野味。
A large number of dead wild birds were found dead in wild near Wang Puzhou Hydropower Station in Laohekou City, Xiangyun County, Yunnan Province on Feb. 3. Since the outbreak, police in Anxi County, Hubei Province, have detected more than 60 cases of unnatural dead wild birds.
目前淘宝上仍有人在销售国家二级保护动物“大壁虎”（俗称蛤蚧、仙蟾）制成的干品，这些信息的真实性如何，若属实，究竟是野生捕捉还是人工养殖，是否有合法养殖及销售手续，尚待有关方面核查。
At present, people on Taobao are still selling second-class protection animals "big gecko" (commonly known as clam, Xenopus), the authenticity of these information, if true, whether it is wild or artificial, whether there are legal breeding and marketing procedures, is yet to be verified.
此外，在京东、拼多多、闲鱼、转转、微店等平台还有人售卖野生动物标本和捕猎工具。
In addition, there are people selling wildlife specimens and hunting tools on platforms such as Jingdong, Dodo, Idle Fish, Ride, Microshop, etc.
搜索“蛤蚧”，可以看到多个销售页面。
Search "clam mealybug", can see many sales page.
蛤蚧就是国家二级保护动物大壁虎。
The mealybug is the second-order national protective animal gecko.
来源：《财经》记者2月21日截图至今仍开业的桂林“野味”餐厅及其菜单／受访者供图短视频平台成新销售区近几年的一个新变化是，短视频平台正成为野生动物交易新的重灾区。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnOne of the new changes in recent years is that short-video platforms are becoming a new disaster area for wildlife trade.
天将明是“让候鸟飞”野生动物保护组织工作人员，他在短视频App快手上时常看到有关盗猎的蛛丝马迹。
Tiananming, a Wildlife Conservation worker, often sees traces of poaching in his short video App Express.
天将明告诉《财经》记者，在快手上，盗猎者很谨慎，不会发猎物的视频，而是让下好的猎夹露出一下，或者发一句“上山了”，拍一个山里的镜头，写一句隐晦的“高速收费站建好了”，意思实际上是野生动物从这里经过要收过路费，他们已经埋伏好猎夹、猎套；“已收费”的意思是“中货了、捕到猎物了”，他说，懂的人自然就懂。
The day will tell Caijing that poachers are careful not to post video of prey, but to show off good hunting clips, or to issue a "go up hill" shot, take a mountain shot, and write a veiled "high-speed toll" that they have ambushed their prey, he said.
快手上使用“暗语”的野生动物盗猎者页面 来源：《财经》记者2月21日截图如今的盗猎工具也越来越先进，以前盗猎者下了猎夹、猎套，要自己时不时去看是否中了猎物，现在会用上报警器，猎物被夹到后，盗猎者的手机上能收到微信、短信和电话通知，这种报警器在一些电商平台上就有卖。
Burglar hunter gatherer tools are becoming more and more sophisticated. Once poachers shoot clips and hunting cases to see if their prey has hit, they now use alarm devices that can be found on their phones and sold on electronic platforms.
淘宝上销售的盗猎报警器，受访者表示，这种报警器并没有其他正规用途。
Poaching alarms sold on Taobao, which interviewees say have no other formal use.
／来源：《财经》记者2月21日截图天津、河北一带抓小型林鸟的人不少。
/ Source: Caijing, Feb. 21 There are many people catching small forest birds in Tianjin and Hebei area.
盗猎者清晨架捕鸟网，一天不收，广西、广东的盗猎者晚上抓水鸟，天快黑了放诱鸟机，用喇叭放各种鸟的叫声，架上捕鸟网，水鸟一听到声音哗哗哗就飞下来了。
Early in the morning, poachers rob birds in the morning. In Guangxi and Guangdong, poachers catch waterfowls at night. It is almost dark. They use loudspeakers to put out birds of all kinds.
野保志愿者在安徽宣城、庐江查盗猎痕迹，十公里的山路边铺满了偷盗者设的电网，江西、湖南、湖北的山里也铺电网，上面是被一万多伏的电网电死的麂子、野猪，“这些动物的蹄子已经被电得卷起来。
Nombo volunteers in Xuancheng, Anhui Province, Lu River hunting traces, 10 kilometers of road paved with stolen power grid, Jiangxi, Hunan, Hubei mountains also laid a grid, above more than 10,000 volts of electricity grid electricity dead suedes, wild boar, "these animals have been rolled up with electricity.
”刘懿丹说。
'said she.
盗猎者有时很狡猾，反盗猎能力也很强。
The poachers are sometimes cunning and have great poaching skills.
李根山和同伴一般是晚上八点出发去山里，抓黄羊盗猎团伙，当地有六七个盗猎团伙长期抓不住，“抓捕猎的人要凭消息、凭运气，山大沟深，车在山里跟蚂蚁一样。
Li Gen Shan and his companions usually set out for the mountains at 8 p. m., catching yellow sheep poachers. Six or seven of the local poaching gangs couldn't catch them for a long time.
”他最近一次是大年初五进山，“只看见车辙印，不见车。
The last time he went into the mountains at the beginning of the year, he saw only ruts and no cars.
”李根山告诉《财经》记者，在中卫的大山里，盗猎者远远看到打击盗猎的志愿者，知道如何把黄羊扔到沟里埋好，等志愿者走后再取猎物。
Li told Caijing that in the mountains of Zhongwei, poachers can see the volunteers fighting poaching from afar, know how to bury them in the ditch and wait for the volunteers to leave.
盗猎者的探照灯可以照得很亮很远，黄羊看到灯就不跑了，盗猎者再放猎狗去咬死黄羊，“一辆车就是一个团伙，盗猎者有分工，有的开车，有的打灯，还有放狗的，抓猎物的。
The search-lights of the poachers can shine far away, the yellow sheep do not run away when they see the light. The poacher then releases the hounds to kill the yellow sheep
”有的盗猎者甚至非法持枪盗猎，“把枪藏在山里，用时去取。
Some poachers even poach illegally, "Hide your gun in the mountains and use it to get it.
”一些野保志愿者表示，在一些山边水边的村子里，有人常去打野味。
Some wildlife volunteers say that in some villages by the water's edge, people often go hunting game.
广东农户罗松林曾捉过野生动物，他告诉《财经》记者，干农活的同时，他会在山里放扑捉器打野味，野味主要供给城里的大老板和想吃的人，打到没人要的自己吃。
Luo Songlin, a farmer in Guangdong who had caught wild animals, told Caijing that while doing farm work, he would hunt wild game in the mountains, mainly for the big city bosses and people who wanted to eat it, and beat up the unwanted ones himself.
“有时搞有时候不搞，断断续续好多年了，周围也有一些这样的人。
"" Sometimes I don't do it, off and on, for years, and there were people around.
”打好了“猎物”，就给动物贩子打电话，送到固定地点。
When the game was finished, the animal dealer was called and sent to a fixed point.
“活物卖的比较贵，死了就便宜卖了。
"Live things are more expensive, sold cheaply when they die.
”钟华平小时候在乡下，也见过捕蛇、麂子、豪猪、野鸡、老鼠的人，“老家有很多长年以捕捉野生动物、做野味为生的，都带着猎枪。
"When he was a child in the countryside, he saw snakes, suede, porcupines, pheasants, mice and mice.
”他说。
'he said.
真盗猎，假养殖在人类利用野生动物的利益链上，野味只是其中一环。
bootlegging Game is only one link in the chain of human interests in exploiting wild animals.
据不完全统计，中国野生动物交易是一个年产值约500亿元的市场，牵扯100万人，50万养殖企业和养殖户。
According to incomplete statistics, China's wildlife trade is a market worth about 50 billion yuan a year, involving 1 million people, 500,000 farming enterprises and farmers.
除了野味，还有动物器官，如毛皮、牙齿，以及观赏展演、异宠、药用等利用形式。
In addition to game, there are animal organs, such as fur and teeth, as well as ornamental, pet and medicinal uses.
在各地藏匿着众多买卖活体野生动物的市场。
There are many markets where live wildlife is bought and sold.
一些人相信野生动物，例如穿山甲有所谓“大补”功效，或者用猫头鹰泡酒治疗头疼，觉得可以“以形补形”。
Some people believe wild animals, such as pangolins, have so-called tonic effects, or use owls to cure headaches and feel they can "shape up."
“异宠”里，需求最大的是将野鸟抓来作笼养鸟，近年来也有抓豹猫作宠物的，“看起来你只买了几只，但背后被捕捉运输的是成百上千只，很多会死掉，隐形伤害很大。
The biggest demand is for caged wild birds and leopard cats in recent years. "It looks like you've only bought a few, but hundreds of them have been caught behind your back, many of which will die and cause a lot of stealth damage.
”天将明说。
"said the sky.
更大的问题是，一些非法野生动物交易和利用，却有合法证件作掩护。
Even more problematic is the fact that some illegal wildlife is traded and exploited under cover of legal documents.
就在新冠疫情暴发的2019年年末，“让候鸟飞”的志愿者们和当地森林公安、林业部门在浙江金华磐安县一个农贸市场的六家店里，发现了大量非法捕猎的野生动物，同样是这几家店，2017年12月他们检查和举报过，当时这六家店什么合法证件都没有，查处之后，如今不但继续销售，还有了合法证件。
At the end of 2019, volunteers from the so-called "let migratory birds fly" and local forest police and forestry departments found a large number of illegally hunted wild animals in six shops in a farmers' market in Jinhua Panan county, Zhejiang Province, which they checked and reported in December 2017, when they had no legal documents.
在浙江淳安县千岛湖，志愿者发现“野味”贩子在市场附近的马路上宰杀销售麂子、野猪，手上都有合法证件。
In Qiandao Lake, Chun'an County, Zhejiang Province, volunteers found "game" dealers slaughtering and selling suede and wild boar on the street near the market, all with proper documentation.
中国动物保护相关法律规定，以保护、研究或经济利用等为目的，想要驯养繁殖、经营利用野生动物的单位和个人，必须向林业部门取得“驯养繁育许可证”和“经营利用核准证”，野生动物来源不清、驯养繁殖尚未成功或技术尚未过关、野生动物资源稀少、不能满足种源或经营利用要求等情况下，不得发证。
Laws on the protection of animals in China stipulate that units or individuals wishing to domesticate, breed or exploit wild animals for protection, research or economic utilization must obtain from the forestry department a license for domestication and breeding and an approval certificate for exploitation.
但野保人士均表示，根据他们常年走访调查，全国各地的所谓野生动物“养殖场”有一部分达不到以上标准，实际上从事的是非法盗猎、交易野生动物的营生。
But wild boarders say that, according to their annual visits, some of the so-called wildlife "breeding farms" across the country fall short of these standards and are actually engaged in illegal hunting and trading of wild animals.
在华东一处农贸市场，野保志愿者看到，贩子们手里握有合法证件，却说不清销售野生动物的来源。
At a farmers' market in eastern China, volunteers who sell wild animals have legal documents in their hands.
广东市场上非法销售大量野鸡、野鸭、水鸟，号称来自安徽、湖北的养殖场，每年9月，都有数万只候鸟被闷死、冷冻、从天津、河北空运到深圳、广州，但据野保人士调查，这些养殖场并没有从事野生动物养殖，动物来源实际上是非法盗猎。
Every September, tens of thousands of migratory birds are smothered, frozen, flown from Tianjin and Hebei to Shenzhen and Guangzhou. However, wild boarders have investigated that these farms are not engaged in wildlife farming and that animal origin is actually illegal poaching.
天将明表示，野生动物驯养繁殖本应是耗资巨大又艰苦的技术工作，大部分野生动物都无法实现满足商业化需求的规模化繁殖。
The vast majority of wild animals cannot breed on a scale that meets the commercial needs of domesticating and breeding wild animals, which would otherwise be costly and laborious, he said.
但现实情况是，很多人靠养殖场迅速发家致富。
But the reality is that many get rich quickly from farms.
“这是全国非法盗猎和经营销售的普遍现象，这些合法证件实际上起到的是给非法盗猎者‘洗白’的作用。
"This is a widespread phenomenon of illegal poaching and selling across the country, and these legal documents actually serve to" whiten "poachers.
”他举了一些例子，一些明显无法实现商业化大规模繁育的动物，例如国家二级保护动物穿山甲、大天鹅、小天鹅，一些养殖场和保护科研机构都有驯养繁育许可证。
He cites examples of animals that apparently could not be commercialized on a large scale, such as national secondary protected animal pangolins, swans and swans, and licensed breeders in a number of breeding farms and conservation research institutions.
山东聊城的大天鹅栖息地，实际上圈养的是捕捉来的大天鹅，一只卖几百块钱。
The swan habitat in Liaocheng, Shandong Province, is actually a large swan caught, one sold for a few hundred dollars.
洞庭湖、鄱阳湖边的栖息地里有很多养殖场，手上握有驯养证，但迁徙的大雁、野鸭、灰鹤、白鹭却成了所谓养殖人员的猎物。
Dongting Lake, Lake Poyang Lake habitat in a number of breeding farms, the hands of domesticated certificates, but migratory geese, wild ducks, gray cranes, egrets have become so-called farmers prey.
鹭鸟养殖场很多，却是从野外偷盗鸟蛋再孵化去卖。
Herons and egrets breed a lot, but steal birds and eggs from the wild and then hatch them for sale.
还有黑水鸡、骨顶鸡，这些非法收购的野生动物，只要进入养殖场内就被视为合法。
There are also black-water chickens, bone-top chickens, these illegally acquired wild animals, as long as they enter breeding farms are considered legal.
又如雁鸭类水鸟，这是一种要3－5年才能性成熟的野生动物，雁鸭类水鸟性成熟后也不一定能按照人的意图在人工环境下大规模繁殖，需要不断投入试错，但许多养殖场里都有成千上万只雁鸭类水鸟，“如何在这么短的时间内繁殖出这么多？”法律规定，对于国家濒危保护物种可以做驯养繁育，要以保护、科研为目的，但实际结果是有些此类驯养繁育变为以盈利为主，一些曾经放开商业化繁育的国家重点保护动物，例如丹顶鹤、娃娃鱼、梅花鹿，在人工繁育的过程中，在野外基本消失。
Wild geese and ducks, a wild animal that takes three to five years to mature sexually, do not necessarily reproduce in man-made environments as intended and require constant trial and error. But the law says that many breeding farms have thousands of wild geese and ducks, such as red-crowned cranes, baby fish and deer.
野保组织曾多次向地方林业部门申请养殖场信息公开，例如“让候鸟飞”曾向四川林业部门申请公开具有穿山甲驯养繁育许可证的企业名单，林业部门以申请资料缺乏说明所申请内容属于自身生产、生活、科研需要为由，拒绝公开，湖南永州等县林业局也表示此类信息涉及商业机密、个人隐私，拒绝公开。
The NWO has repeatedly applied to the local forestry department for information on farm operations. For example, "Let Migratory Birds Fly" has applied to the Sichuan Forestry Department for an open list of enterprises with domestic breeding licenses for pangolin.
“既然公司和养殖场表示驯养繁殖技术成熟，允许它们经营利用，就应该接受社会监督。
"Companies and farms should be subject to social oversight since they say domesticated breeding techniques are mature enough to allow them to operate.
”天将明说。
"said the sky.
野生动物盗猎销售在法律惩处环节也存在漏洞。
There are loopholes in the legal penalties for wildlife poaching sales.
市面上非法交易的野生动物，除一二级重点保护动物，大量存在的是麂子、野猪、野兔、蛇类等“三有”保护动物（非一二级重点保护野生动物，但亦受法律保护的野生动物），这些野生动物受保护力度明显不足。
Wild animals illegally traded on the market, except those under primary and secondary protection, are in great numbers protected by suede, wild boar, hare and snake. These wild animals (which are not protected by law but are also protected by law) are clearly under-protected.
按照法律规定，明知是非法狩猎的野生动物而收购、数量达50只以上的，以掩饰、隐瞒犯罪所得罪定罪处罚，但要定罪，必须查实非法捕猎的“上家”，因为涉案的是“三有”动物，不能直接定性为刑事案件，导致公安无法动用必要的刑侦手段，大部分案件都因为查不到“上家”从轻判决或不了了之。
According to the law, anyone who knowingly buys more than 50 wild animals for illegal hunting must be convicted and punished for concealing and concealing the crime. However, to be convicted, the "upper family" of illegal hunting must be identified, since the animals involved are not directly classified as criminal cases, thus depriving public security of the necessary investigative means.
下一场病毒疫情能否避免？2005年刊发在Emerging Infectious Diseases（新发传染病）期刊上的《野生动物贸易与全球疾病的出现》一文指出，自1980年（至2005年），人类出现了超过35种新传染病，平均每8个月就会出现一种新传染病，艾滋病、埃博拉、SARS（如今我们又看到MERS、新冠肺炎）都与不当接触野生动物有关。
Can the next outbreak be averted? According to Wildlife Trade and the Emergence of Global Diseases, published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases in 2005, more than 35 new infectious diseases have emerged since 1980 (until 2005), with a new infectious disease occurring every eight months on average.
上世纪90年代中期以来，世界各地出现的新发或复发牲畜疾病，包括牛海绵状脑病、口蹄疫、禽流感、猪瘟等，世界经济损失超过800亿美元。
Since the mid-1990s, new or re-emerging livestock diseases have emerged around the world, including bovine spongiform encephalopathy, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza and swine fever, with world economic losses exceeding $80 billion.
研究人员表示，人和野生动物发生近距离、非自然接触，野生动物被大量关在一起，疫病发生的几率很高，食用、接触未经过检验检疫的野生动物，也增加病毒传播风险。
Researchers say close, unnatural contact with wildlife, large numbers of wild animals locked together, high rates of disease, and exposure to wild animals that have not been tested and quarantined also increase the risk of transmission, the researchers said.
伦敦动物学会教授安德鲁•坎宁安（Andrew Cunningham）认为，中国的活鲜市场是人畜共患病毒出现的理想温床。
Andrew Cunningham, a professor at the Zoological Society in London, believes that China's live market is an ideal breeding ground for the emergence of zoonoses.
当大量不同物种的野生动物被关在卫生条件恶劣的环境下，动物携带某种人畜共患病毒的可能性会增加，这种动物将病毒传播开去的可能性也会增加。
When large numbers of wild animals of different species are kept in poor sanitary conditions, animals are more likely to carry the virus between humans and animals and are more likely to spread it.
保护人类健康的最佳选择是关闭活体野生动物交易场所，如果有必须发生的野生动物交易，要严格规范。
The best option for the protection of human health is to close down live wildlife trading sites and to regulate them strictly if there is a trade in wildlife that must occur.
自疫情爆发以来，来自多方的声音开始呼吁，为避免病毒从野生动物传播给人，人应该减少对野生动物生存环境的干预、保护野生生物栖息地，不非法捕捉和买卖野生动物。
Since the outbreak began, many voices have called for people to limit their interventions in wildlife environments, protect wildlife habitats and not illegally catch and trade wildlife in order to avoid the spread of the virus from wild animals to humans.
2020年1月24日，19名来自全国高校、科研院所的院士、学者联名签字倡议杜绝野生动物非法贸易和食用，从源头控制重大公共健康风险。
On 24 January 2020, a group of 19 academicians and scholars from universities and research institutes across the country signed an initiative to eliminate the illegal trade in and consumption of wildlife and to control major public health risks at their source.
野生动物商业化交易的坏结果是少数人获利、全国乃至全球人一起承担风险和危机。
The bad results of the commercial trade in wildlife are that a few gain, and that risks and crises are shared nationally and globally.
“人类对动物的研究还远远不够，唯有和野生动物保持合理的距离，才有可能降低来自未知领域病毒的风险。
"Human research on animals is far from enough. Only by keeping a reasonable distance from wildlife can we reduce the risk of viruses from unknown areas.
”常年从事穿山间保护工作的长沙野生动物保护协会会长周灿英对《财经》记者说。
Zhan-ying Zhou, president of the Changsha Wildlife Conservation Association, a long-time mountain-crossing conservation worker, told Caijing.
要求修改《野生动物保护法》，禁止野生动物交易的呼声越来也高。
Calls for changes to the Wild Animals Protection Act and a ban on wildlife trading are growing.
“现在的问题是，野保法打击不了犯罪分子，法律制裁也不疼不痒。
"The problem is that the wildcat law can't crack down on criminals and the law doesn't hurt.
”刘懿丹说。
'said she.
在一线做了大量调查的野保界人士发现，野生动物保护最大的问题在于野保法，由于盗猎、销售贩子用合法证件掩盖非法盗猎、销售的行为，野保界甚至感到野保法被不法团伙当成了“野生动物利用法”，他们希望扩大野生动物保护名录范围，进一步推动禁止食用野生动物，以及禁止以商业利用为目的的野生动物驯养繁殖活动。
Wild conservationists, who do a lot of research on the front lines, have found that the biggest problem with wildlife conservation is the wild-insurance law, which the boarders use as a cover for illegal poaching and selling.
2020年2月11日，全国人大常委会法工委做出回应，表示已部署启动《野生动物保护法》的修改工作。
On February 11, 2020, the National People's Congress Standing Committee of the Legal Committee responded that it had deployed to initiate the revision of the Wildlife Conservation Law.
法工委经济法室主任王瑞贺表示，当前监督检查和执法力度不够，野味市场泛滥构成公共卫生安全重大隐患，拟将修法列入今年的立法工作计划。
Wang Ruihe, director of the Economic Law Office of the CWTC, said that the current insufficient supervision and enforcement efforts, the spread of the wild meat market constitutes a major public health risk, the proposed amendments to this year's legislative work plan.
中国野生动物摄影师奚志农近日接受《人民日报》采访时表示，“只要（人们）还在以任何形式消费野生动物，距离文明，我们就还有很远，很远。
"As long as people continue to consume wildlife in any form, we'll be a long way away from civilization," local wildlife photographer Keesh Zhinong told People's Daily.
”周灿英长期从事穿山甲保护工作，她认为，保护野生动物，对老百姓的教育普及很重要。
Chan-ying Zhou, a longtime pangolin conservation worker, said protecting wild animals was important to popularize the education of the people.
“中国官方2019年启动了穿山甲专项调查，很多平台也有推文宣传穿山甲这个物种。
"Chinese authorities launched a special investigation into pangolin in 2019, and many platforms have tweeted the pangolin species.
此前中国人对穿山甲的特性不是很了解，到底应该怎么去保护，野外还有多少存量，也无数据可查。
Before the Chinese people do not know the characteristics of pangolin, exactly how to protect, how much storage in the wild, there is no data to check.
国人并不知道穿山甲濒危到了何种程度。
The Chinese do not know how endangered pangolin is.
”这两年，她和团队在湖南、江西山里做穿山甲调查工作，向村民普及野生动物知识，正在看到一些成果。
Over the past two years, she and her team have conducted pangolin surveys in the mountains of Hunan and Jiangxi, popularizing villagers with knowledge of wildlife and seeing some results.
“对野生动物的利用，是人的中心主义在作怪，野生动物本身在山里、水里，穿山甲这样的动物，来到地球比人都早，它们和我们井水不犯河水，我们不应该去破坏野生动物的生存环境，不应该去伤害它们。
"The exploitation of wild animals is the result of humanitarianism at work. Wild animals, such as wild animals in the mountains, in the water and in the pangolin, come to the earth earlier than human beings.
”周灿英说。
'said Chan-ying Chow.
（应受访者要求，钟华平、罗松林、天将明为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(At the request of respondents, Zhong Huaping, Luo Songlin and Tianming will be given aliases) Click on photos to see more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
严防病从口入：起底野味产业链，整肃需要下重拳。
Strict prevention of disease from the mouth: bottom game industry chain, purging needs a heavy blow.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "严防病从口入：起底野味产业链，整肃需要下重拳";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "非典疫情以来，科学界和动物保护领域都在呼吁禁止野生动物交易，但以“野味”为代表，近年来交易渠道反而越来越广，从活鲜、农批市场扩大到快手、火山等网络平台，多种野生动物都有从捕猎、运输到贩卖的成熟利益网";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
