上海市医疗救治专家组组长：武汉很困难，其他输入病例的城市将面临更大挑战。
Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group Leader: Wuhan is very difficult, other input cases of the city will face greater challenges.
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
张文宏接受本刊记者采访时，已经是今日凌晨1点。
Zhang Wenhong interviewed by this print reporter, it was 1: 00 a.m. today.
作为复旦大学附属华山医院感染病科的主任，张文宏刚刚到河南，随国家卫健委督查组考察河南的疫情防控措施的落实。
As the director of the Infectious Disease Department attached to Huashan Hospital of Fudan University, Zhang Wenhong has just arrived in Henan.
华山医院感染科是全国最强的科室，作为本领域的带头人，疫情发现之后，张文宏被任命为上海市新型冠状病毒肺炎医疗救治专家组组长。
The infection department of Huashan Hospital is the most powerful department in China. As the leader of this field, Zhang Wenhong was appointed the leader of the new coronavirus pneumonia treatment group in Shanghai.
张文宏说，目前全国的防控，武汉需要迅速解决已经出现的问题，其他城市和地区打的则是保卫战。
'For the time being, Wuhan needs to solve the problems that have arisen quickly. Other cities and regions are fighting defense, 'Mr. Zhang said.
这个时候比的不是勇气，而是理性、耐心和科学。
This is not a time of courage, but of reason, patience and science.
武汉在应对疫情上有很多教训与经验，其他地方必须慎重参考，避免成为第二个疫情高发地区。
Wuhan has many lessons and experiences in dealing with the epidemic situation. Other places must be carefully consulted so as to avoid becoming a second high-incidence area.
记者 | 王珊《三联生活周刊》：从1月23日开始，武汉采取封城措施，您如何看待这个举措？张文宏：武汉现在病人体量太大，是个大的传染源，目前国内各地乃至其他国家出现的病例，很多病人在被确诊之后，都发现跟武汉有相关接触。
What do you think of the measures taken by Wuhan since January 23 to close the city? Zhang Wenhong: Wuhan is now too large a source of infection, and many patients have found contact with Wuhan after being diagnosed.
所以武汉的情况如果不解决，其他地方是没有办法控制住的。
Therefore, Wuhan, if the situation is not resolved, there is no other place to control.
另一个现实是，整个中国很大，在传染病应对上，不可能每个城市、区县都能够做到北京、上海等大城市的水平，如果不控制住武汉的疫情，有可能导致全国性的蔓延。
Another reality is that China is a very large country.In dealing with infectious diseases, it is impossible for every city, district and county to achieve the level of major cities such as Beijing and Shanghai.
武汉疫情爆发以后，导致恐慌出现，形成人群大量聚集，为交叉感染创造了条件。
Wuhan outbreak, resulting in panic, the formation of a large crowd, for cross-infection created the conditions.
武汉本身也需要迅速解决已经出现的问题。
Wuhan itself needs to deal with the problems that have arisen quickly.
对于传染病来说，切断传播途径是非常重要的解决办法，再高的发病率，通过物理上的交通管制，必能切断实际上的传染病扩散。
For infectious diseases, cutting off transmission routes is a very important solution, and even higher rates of morbidity, through physical traffic control, can cut off the actual spread of infectious diseases.
此时对武汉，采取封城这样的措施是一个快速切断传染源的有效措施。
At this time to Wuhan, the adoption of measures such as closure of the city is an effective way to quickly cut off the source of infection.
远征 摄武汉疫情不控制，全国的疫情控制就不能得到保证。
If the epidemic situation in Wuhan is not controlled, the epidemic control in the whole country cannot be guaranteed.
但这个并不是说国家要牺牲武汉保护其他地方，封城也可以最大限度地防止新型冠状病毒在武汉内部的蔓延。
But this does not mean that the state to sacrifice Wuhan to protect other places, the closure of the city can also maximize the prevention of the new coronavirus in Wuhan spread.
对于武汉来讲，抗击新型冠状病毒，是一场战役，是硬仗。
Wuhan, the fight against the new coronavirus, is a battle, is a hard fight.
《三联生活周刊》：根据通报，截至1月26日19时：全国30个省（区、市）累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例2051例，死亡56例。
According to the circular, as of 1900 hours on January 26, 2051 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection and 56 deaths have been reported in 30 provinces (districts and cities) across the country.
您如何看待患者这种激增情况？张文宏：从总体数据上来说，全国大部分地区发病数据激增，很多是在武汉原来堆积的病例，以及一代病例再传播派生出的二代与三代病例。
Zhang Wenhong: Overall, there has been a sharp increase in the number of cases in most parts of the country, many of them in Wuhan, as well as second and third generation cases of retransmission.
疾病爆发之初，看到病例大多来自华南海鲜市场之时，这一情况没有得到重视，导致疫情继续蔓延，当很快出现的系列聚集性发病案例的时候，已经到了处置武汉疫情的关键节点。
The lack of attention paid to the fact that the majority of the cases at the onset of the outbreak came from the South China seafood market continued to spread, and the critical juncture of the Wuhan epidemic was reached when a series of soon-to-be-reported cases of concentrated disease emerged.
因为只要出现人传人之后的二代病例和三代病例，疫情就标志着进入第二阶段。
Because as long as there are second-generation cases and third-generation cases after human-to-human transmission, the epidemic marks the second stage.
这个阶段时间越长，则残余病例数量越大。
The longer this stage is, the larger the number of residual cases.
从病毒传播的发展进程来说，武汉可能还有潜在传染病未被发现。
From the virus spread of the development process, Wuhan may also have potential infectious diseases undetected.
武汉在处置上面有很多的教训和经验，其他省份或地区必须慎重参考，不然可能就是第二个武汉。
Wuhan in the disposal of many lessons and experience, other provinces or regions must carefully reference, or it may be the second Wuhan.
对于武汉来说，这也是一个新发的传染病，特点跟以往也不一样。
For Wuhan, this is also a new infectious disease, characteristics are not the same as before.
现在看来，武汉的整个处置上缺乏早期的科学管控意识，疫情的应对需要专家的迅速介入和评判。
It now seems that Wuhan on the entire disposal of the lack of early awareness of scientific control, the response to the epidemic requires the rapid intervention of experts and judgment.
国家卫健委的思路就很明确，六个院士、专家进驻专家组，还有其他专家，大家联合制定方案。
The concept of the National Health Committee is very clear, six academicians, experts on the team of experts, but also other experts, you jointly develop the programme.
本来以为2003年非典之后我认为各个地区在应对传染病上已经有了相应的经验教训，现在看来，其实未然。
I thought that after SARS in 2003, I thought there was a lesson in dealing with infectious diseases in different regions.
2003年我也在非典一线，非典也经历了很长的时间，当时的问题在于找不到病原体，找到之后，后续的应对来说就非常快了。
I was on the SARS scene in 2003, and SARS was a long time ago. The problem was that the pathogen could not be found.
某种程度上来说，这次新的病毒，虽然发现得早，但病例传播速度快，应对起来似乎比非典更为困难。
To some extent, the new virus, though discovered earlier, is spreading faster and appears to be more difficult to deal with than SARS.
《三联生活周刊》：其他地区应该如何警示“二代病例”？张文宏：当某一个城市的不明原因肺炎中出现新冠病毒，而且源头不清的时候，预示着该城市已经失去了初期防控的黄金窗口，可能要进入二代病例传播的持久战阶段。
ZHANG Man-hong: When a new crown virus emerges from pneumonia in an unknown city and its source is unclear, the city has lost its golden window of initial control and may be entering a protracted phase of second-generation transmission.
现在所有的病例我们都能找到传播的路径，即现在可以找到传染给他的那个人。
Now in all cases we can find the route of transmission, the person who can now be found to infect him.
比如说我们现在外地发现的病例，能找到他在武汉待过，或者跟武汉接触的线索。
For example, we are now found in the field of the case, can find him in Wuhan, or contact with Wuhan clues.
但如果在另外一个地区，我们找到一个病人，却确定不了他的传染源，即可说明出现一个显著的二代病例。
But if we find a patient in another area and can't pinpoint the source of his infection, there is a significant second-generation case.
换句话说，就是这个地区内部之间已经出现人传人的状况。
In other words, there has been human-to-human transmission within the region.
这意味着疾病进入新的阶段，这是很可怕的，意味着一个传播链的形成。
This means that the disease enters a new phase, which is terrifying and implies the formation of a chain of transmission.
这个阶段可以在病例出现爆发时候发现，也可以通过主动监测来完成。
This stage can be detected at the onset of an outbreak or through active surveillance.
准备采取何种方式进行防疫，纯属城市管理者的见仁见智。
The way in which immunization is to be carried out is a matter of opinion for urban managers.
远征 摄武汉外的其他地区产生二代病例是可能的，这也符合病毒本身的传播规律，新型冠状病毒已经显现出了很强的人传人的特征，问题是现在是否能即时控制，即发现一个，诊治一个，解决一个。
This is consistent with the transmission pattern of the virus itself. The new coronavirus has already shown strong human-to-human characteristics. The question is whether it can be controlled immediately, i.e., one can be found, one diagnosed and one solved.
新型冠状病毒比较隐蔽，它表现出来的症状不是很重，有一段的潜伏感染时间，这期间可能发生传染。
The new coronavirus is relatively hidden. It shows a mild symptom and a period of latent infection during which infection may occur.
现在整个的国家的体系对这个病毒提高了警惕性，在疾病病症很轻时就去查，可以阻断病毒的进一步传播。
Now the entire national system has become more alert to the virus and can block its further spread by checking it when the disease is very mild.
所以，我想说的是，目前全国形势的防控，武汉打的是一场大决战，其他地区和城市打的则是保卫战。
Therefore, I would like to say that at present, the national situation of prevention and control, Wuhan is fighting a major showdown, other regions and cities fought defense.
这个时候比的不是勇气，而是理性、耐心和科学，这是一个比较长期的持久仗。
This is not a time of courage, but of reason, patience and science. It is a long and enduring battle.
武汉很困难，其他输入病例城市将面临更大挑战。
Wuhan is very difficult, other input case cities will face greater challenges.
《三联生活周刊》：其他输入病例城市病例数不多，为什么将面临巨大挑战，这个怎么理解呢？张文宏：大家观测到的新型冠状病毒的潜伏期一般是2周左右。
"Lifestyle Magazine": Why are there so few other cases of coronavirus in the city? Zhang Wenhong: The incubation period of the new coronavirus observed is usually about 2 weeks.
现在武汉实行定点收治，又在建设新的定点医院。
Wuhan is now the implementation of fixed-point treatment, and the construction of a new designated hospital.
全国各地的医护援助力量都已经相继到位，通过对所有发病患者的收治，不出2周，武汉实报病例应该能出现拐点。
All over the country, medical assistance has been put in place, through the admission of all patients, within two weeks, Wuhan reported cases should be able to appear inflection point.
武汉战役的结局已经没有疑问，武汉的老百姓和其他地方处于惶恐中的大众，要对这场战役有信心。
Wuhan, the outcome of the battle has no doubt that the common people and other places in Wuhan in fear of the public, to have confidence in this campaign.
全国各个省市相继通报病例，这个时候，如果当地提高了警戒的水平，蔓延就会被阻断，如果继续蔓延的话，再做控制就会很难。
The provinces and municipalities have reported cases in succession, and if local vigilance levels are raised, the spread will be disrupted and if it continues to spread, it will be difficult to control it.
因此，当前武汉外的城市，必须老老实实地做好病例筛查，迅速确诊，精确分检，该隔离隔离，该回家回家。
Therefore, the current city outside Wuhan, must honestly do a good job of case screening, rapid diagnosis, accurate separation, the isolation, to go home.
当地政府严格按照流程去实施疫情管理。
The local government strictly follows the procedure to carry out epidemic management.
疫情的初期，在没有发现二代病例的阶段，应对所有潜在的输入性病例进行迅速有效的筛检，这个阶段怎么投入都不会白费。
In the early stages of the epidemic, when no second-generation cases are detected, rapid and effective screening of all potential imported cases should be carried out, and no effort at this stage will be in vain.
所在省市有条件者可以对武汉来源之外的不明原因肺炎进行病原学的监测，明确是否已经有武汉二代或者三代病例在本地形成传播循环。
The provincial and municipal conditions can be outside the Wuhan source of unknown causes of pneumonia etiology monitoring, to determine whether Wuhan has the second or third generation of cases in the local form of transmission cycle.
一旦发现，则标志抗疫时间要延长，所在城市进入持久抗疫阶段。
Once discovered, the mark of anti-epidemic time to be extended, the city into a long-term anti-epidemic phase.
还要需要注意的问题是，当前很多城市的诊断试剂虽然已经到位，但是诊断时间不及时，假阳性假阴性病例可能也不少，临床采样不规范也会影响检测结果。
It is also important to note that while diagnostic reagents are currently in place in many cities, the diagnostic time is not timely, false-positive false-negative cases may be numerous, and irregularities in clinical sampling may also affect test results.
凡此种种，均有可能造成输入性病例的继续传播，继而产生二代病例和三代病例。
All of this has the potential to cause continued transmission of imported cases, followed by second-generation and third-generation cases.
对于武汉外的其他城市来说，卫生管理层和城市管理层面临一场大考。
For other cities outside Wuhan, health officials and city management face a big test.
武汉以外其他城市管理层，目前面临的正是武汉2019年12月底同样的问题，如果可以重来，在疾病的初期应如何抗击这场新发传染病？《三联生活周刊》：这其实还是讲，要把整个应对的体系捋顺。
Other city managers outside Wuhan are facing the same problem as Wuhan at the end of December 2019, and if so, what should they do to fight the new epidemic in the early stages of the disease?
张文宏：对的。
Zhang Wenhong: Right.
事实上就要看这段时间，各个地方是不是能够建立一套有效的发现、治疗、诊治疾病的控制体系，能否迅速地把这个机器给建起来。
In fact, it will depend on whether places can build an effective control system for the detection, treatment, diagnosis and treatment of diseases, and whether they can build the machine quickly.
如果机器建起来，即使相继出现病例，问题不大，哪怕是出现一个小规模的爆发，也能够应对。
If machines are built, even in successive cases, the problem is not so great that even a small outbreak can be dealt with.
因为这个体系已经完整了，诊断也是完整的，病毒来一个、解决一个，我是比较乐观地看待这个事情。
Because the system is complete, the diagnosis is complete, the virus comes and one is solved, and I'm optimistic about it.
但如果这个时间，各个地方没有根据要求建设这套体系，它可能就会出现爆发。
But if, at this point in time, the system is not built everywhere as required, it could erupt.
《三联生活周刊》：这次疫情的防疫，我们还需要反思哪些方面？张文宏：在应对传染病上，目前针对特殊的传染病必须依靠疾控来做确诊，但疾控中心的确诊又要花很长的时间，在新发传染病的确认上，这很不利于医院对疑似病人的处置。
Zhang Wenhong: In dealing with infectious diseases, it is necessary to rely on disease control for diagnosis, but it will take a long time for the CDC to confirm the new infectious diseases, which is not good for hospitals to deal with the suspected patients.
医院和疾控如果配置不好，会对病人的诊断造成极大的延误，造成病人群体滞留，达不到分流的目的，患者堆积在医院，造成第2轮的传播，这次武汉的爆发，也是反映了这个问题。
The poor configuration of hospitals and disease control can cause significant delays in the diagnosis of patients, cause groups of patients to stay, fail to achieve diversion purposes, pile up patients in hospitals, resulting in the second round of transmission, this Wuhan outbreak is also a reflection of the problem.
即使医院有检测的能力，也要在疾控的管理之下。
Even if the hospital has the ability to detect, but also under the management of disease control.
两者的关系是以后需要思考的。
The relationship between the two needs to be considered later.
面临这种情况，其他地区医院和疾控中心之间就要密切合作，必须要迅速增加人手，快速反应。
Faced with this situation, there is a need for close cooperation between hospitals and CDC in other regions and for a rapid increase in manpower and rapid response.
这件事给我们的反思是，是否要将确诊的权力交给医院，疾控只做疾病控制。
Our reflection on this matter is whether to give the power of diagnosis to the hospital, disease control only do disease control.
这并不只是一个权力的移交，要考虑的问题很多，前提是要把医院的检验水平提高，建设相应的检测实验室。
This is not just a transfer of power, there are many issues to consider, provided that the level of testing in hospitals is improved and the corresponding testing laboratories are built.
每次教训之后，都会推动进步。
Every time you learn a lesson, you make progress.
非典之后，整个中国疾控系统变得强大了。
After SARS, the whole disease control system in China became stronger.
经过这次的改进以后，我们希望医院传染病的防控体系能够得到进一步的提高。
After this improvement, we hope that the control system of nosocomial infectious diseases can be further improved.
另外就是分级处理的问题。
There is also the issue of tiered treatment.
面对传病疫情，要做明确的科学应对指南，即哪些病人需要进入医院，哪些病人只要在社区医院或者家里自我隔离就行。
In the face of an epidemic, clear scientific guidelines should be given as to which patients need to be admitted to hospitals and which patients need to isolate themselves in community hospitals or at home.
无论有无去过武汉，只要发热就都挤到了医院里，挂号就要四五个小时，看病又要时间，检验和取药又要大量时间，这种不分青红皂白扎堆看病，只会影响疫情的处理和加重交叉传播。
Whether or not they have been to Wuhan, as long as the fever is crowded into the hospital, registration will take four or five hours, medical treatment and time, testing and access to medicine, such indiscriminate pile-ups can only affect the handling of the epidemic and aggravate cross-transmission.
作者档案王珊喜欢阳光，喜欢晒太阳，最近喜欢易建联。
Author files Wang Shan likes the sun, like the sun, recently like Yi Jianlian.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@小笨走走停请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Twenty-six minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo @ Stupid Walk Stop Poking! Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the lookout for the epidemic # # The Triple Lifestyle Weekly media is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
上海市医疗救治专家组组长：武汉很困难，其他输入病例的城市将面临更大挑战。
Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group Leader: Wuhan is very difficult, other input cases of the city will face greater challenges.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "上海市医疗救治专家组组长：武汉很困难，其他输入病例的城市将面临更大挑战";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Wuhan is difficult, and other cities with imported cases face greater challenges;;
var msg_desc = "对于武汉来讲，抗击新型冠状病毒，是一场战役，是硬仗。
var msg _ desc = & quot; for Wuhan, the fight against the new coronavirus was a battle and a hard one.
这个时候比的不是勇气，而是理性、耐心和科学。
This is not a time of courage, but of reason, patience and science.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
