“我想保护好我的村”。
I want to protect my village.
敬奕步。
Wheaty step.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲玉龙雪山脚下的玉湖村。
Yulong snow mountain foot jade lake village.
（受访者供图/图）全文共4244字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
(The full text is 4244 words. It takes about 10 minutes to read.
在求助信里，我写了四样求支援的物品，是因为我只知道这四样。
In the cover letter, I wrote four things to ask for help because I knew only these four things.
而实际情况是，现在村里几乎什么都没有。
The truth is that there is hardly anything in the village now.
“第一点，这个病会人传人，潜伏期就会传染。
"The first is that the disease can spread from person to person, and the incubation period can be contagious.
第二点，暂时还没有治疗这个病的药。
Second, there is no cure for the disease.
第三点，这个病可能会死人。
And thirdly, the disease can kill people.
”我们就这样直接去跟他们说，现在好多了，村里走动的人很少了。
"So we went straight to them and told them that it was much better and that there were few people walking about in the village.
白天，村是封锁的，但一些游客把车停在村外小树林，然后徒步进来，藏到村子里。
During the day, the village was closed, but some visitors parked outside the village in the woods, then walked in and hid in the village.
这些人，我们查出来都送去安置点。
These people, we found out and sent them to the settlement.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 敬奕步南方周末实习生 龚柔善 叶梓责任编辑 | 张玥2020年1月29日，一则求助帖四处流转。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这则求助帖来自云南丽江玉龙纳西族自治县白沙镇下辖的玉湖村。
This help post comes from Yuhu village under the jurisdiction of Pesha Township, Yulong Naxi Autonomous County, Lijiang, Yunnan.
截至2020年2月3日0时，云南省累计报告确诊病例105例，其中丽江市7例。
As of 0000 hours on February 3, 2020, 105 confirmed cases were reported in Yunnan Province, including 7 in Lijiang.
在全国新冠肺炎疫情猛烈蔓延态势中，这个村庄发出了求救的呼喊。
The village cried out for help amid a nationwide outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
“目前医护防疫用品告急……全城口罩都售空了，农村里几乎无有效防护用品。
"At present medical and epidemic prevention supplies are in urgent need... the whole city is sold out of masks, the countryside almost no effective protective supplies.
”求助帖写道，因为防护用品太缺乏，玉湖村村委会在做防护宣传工作时，担心会形成交叉感染。
Because of the lack of protective equipment, the Yushu Village Council was worried about cross-infection when it came to protecting itself, the help post wrote.
求助帖显示，玉湖村目前共有1800余人，现在急缺有效防护措施。
The placard shows that there are more than 1800 people in Yuhu village, and effective protective measures are urgently needed.
求助帖呼吁求援的几种防护用品包括：抗病毒药物、防护眼罩、口罩和消毒杀菌用品。
Several types of protective equipment for which help is sought include antiviral drugs, eye protection, masks and disinfectant supplies.
在纳西语里，玉湖村叫“巫鲁肯”，意为“雪山脚下”。
In Naxi language, Yushu Village is called "Wu Lukan," which means "snow mountain foot."
这是距离玉龙雪山最近的村庄，旅游业是当地村民的主要收入来源。
This is the closest village to the Yulong Snowy Mountains and tourism is the main source of income for the local villagers.
2019年11月，玉湖村入选当年中国美丽休闲乡村名单。
In November 2019, Yushu Village was included in the list of beautiful leisure villages in China.
每年春节都是玉湖村的旅游旺季，来自全国各地的旅客在这里度假。
The Spring Festival is the peak season for tourists from all over the country.
但在2020年春节，一场来势汹汹的疫情打破了村庄的宁静。
But in 2020, the Spring Festival, a violent outbreak broke the peace of the village.
1月25日，全国疫情汹涌。
On 25 January, there was a nationwide epidemic.
在村委会的部署下，玉湖村开始实行“软封村”。
In the village committee's deployment, Yushu village began to implement the "soft-seal village."
村内饭馆全部停业，49岁的村民吕群志感到害怕，想关掉自己的杂货铺，但没能如愿。
Dining in the village, Lu Qunzhi, a 49-year-old villager, was scared and tried to shut down his grocery store, but failed.
“主任说，我们这个店没特殊情况不能关门。
"Our store can't close without special conditions," said the director.
我们一关店，他们（村民）就更慌了。
They panicked even more when we closed the shop.
”不让吕群志关店的人是和旺盛，他是玉湖村的村委会主任。
The man who refused to let Lu Qunzhi close the shop was He exuberant. He was the director of the village committee in Yuhu village.
在这次疫情中，31岁的和旺盛带着十多名村干部，在医疗物资极其缺乏的情况下，始终站在防治一线。
In this outbreak, 31-year-old and exuberant with more than a dozen village cadres, in the face of a severe shortage of medical supplies, always stood on the front line.
1月30日晚间，南方周末记者与和旺盛进行了对话。
On the evening of 30 January, Southern Weekend reporter had a dialogue with Hexuo.
他的普通话说得并不标准，但字字恳切。
His spoken Mandarin was not standard, but he was sincere.
“我不知道该说什么才好，我知道咱们祖国现在哪里都困难，但我作为一个村长（村委会主任），我想保护好我的村。
"I don't know what to say, I know our motherland is in trouble now, but as a village chief (village committee director), I want to protect my village.
”以下为村主任自述：1家家关大门我大学毕业以后，先去景区创业，三年多后回到村里。
After graduating from college, I went to the scenic spot to start a business. After more than three years, I returned to the village.
2016年5月25日，我参加村民投票选举，当选了村主任。
On 25 May 2016, I participated in a village vote and was elected village head.
我们村资源丰富，但资源优势又是劣势。
Our village is rich in resources, but its advantage in resources is inferior.
因为村子在玉龙雪山脚下，地处半山区，是整个丽江市的水源涵养地，受国家的保护，所以很多资源都没法开发，只能做生态旅游。
Because the village in the foot of the Yulong snow mountain, located in the middle of the mountains, is the entire Lijiang city's water conservation site, protected by the state, so many resources can not be developed, can only do ecotourism.
村里有1600多个原住村民，还有一些外地的朋友，来这里租院子做民宿客栈，他们现在也回不去，加起来一共1800多人。
There are more than 1,600 native villagers in the village, as well as some friends from other parts of the country, who have come here to rent a courtyard for lodgings.
我们原住民是纳西族，我也是纳西族。
Our natives are Naxi, and I am Naxi.
我们村一直在做初级的旅游服务，比如骑马、农家乐、民宿酒店。
Our village has been doing primary tourism services, such as horse riding, farm music, residential hotels.
有的村民在民宿酒店里做保洁，有的人开旅游车、商务车，赚点车费。
Some villagers do cleaning in residential hotels, some people drive tourist cars, business cars, earn some fares.
村里80%的人员都是做旅游服务的。
About 80 per cent of the village's personnel are engaged in tourism services.
从玉湖村开车到白沙镇，只要15分钟，到丽江也只要20分钟。
It only takes 15 minutes to drive from Yuhu Village to Pesha Town and only 20 minutes to Lijiang.
因为跟城里近，又是旅游中心，我们心里特别忐忑。
Because of the city, and is a tourist center, we are particularly perturbed.
现在丽江有6个病例，都是从湖北过来玩的朋友发病，而我们村跟外界接触的机率太高了。
Now Lijiang has 6 cases, are from Hubei play friends, and our village contact with the outside world is too high a chance.
1月25日之前，我们还在兴高采烈，大家都想着要过年了。
Before January 25, we were in high spirits and everyone was thinking of celebrating the New Year.
25日当天，镇里来了通知，让我们开始排查有没有从疫情重点地区回来的人。
On the 25th, a notice came from the town, asking us to start checking for people who had not returned from key areas of the outbreak.
我们发现有从那里回来的学生，就去沟通，他们也主动来上报，暂时在家里隔离。
When we found students coming back from there, we went to communicate, and they volunteered to report and stay at home for a while.
每天让他们量三次体温，汇报到村委会，村委会又报给上级，现在村里还没有发现病人。
Let them take temperature three times a day, report to the village committee, the village committee reported to their superiors, the village has not found patients.
村里当时有湖北、广东、湖南、上海和深圳来的游客，我们就去劝返他们回家过年。
When there were tourists from Hubei, Guangdong, Hunan, Shanghai and Shenzhen, we tried to persuade them to go home for the New Year.
后来，丽江市政府作了部署，给湖北籍和非湖北籍的人安排了不同的酒店。
Later, the Lijiang city government made arrangements for different hotels for Hubei and non-Hubei people.
我们就把所有的“外籍”游客都护送过去了。
We escorted all the "foreign" tourists.
安置点更安全，那里有医护人员、消毒措施，村里反而啥都没有。
The settlements are safer, there are medical staff, disinfection measures, and the village has nothing.
我们是旅游城市，政府对“外籍”的人的保护措施是最好的，但往往落下了本地人。
We are a tourist city, and the government offers the best protection to "foreigners," but often local people are left behind.
也是从25日起，村里开始封村，没有再接待客人。
Also from 25, the village began to seal the village, did not receive guests.
但村子现在依然处于危险状态。
But the village is still in danger.
因为疫病有潜伏期，现在还不敢完全保证安全。
Because of the incubation period, it is not yet possible to fully guarantee safety.
封村那天，我们还接触过湖北籍的人。
On the day of the village closure, we also contacted people of Hubei nationality.
现在村里大家都不出来了。
Now everyone in the village won't come out.
家家关大门，在家看电视。
Close the door and watch TV at home.
村民有两极分化的状态。
The villagers are polarized.
一些人特别敏感，但有一些在家务农的村民反而特别不怕。
Some people are particularly sensitive, but some villagers working at home are particularly afraid.
我也不知道他为什么不怕，他们说“（疫情）不会上这儿来，这里空气这么好”。
I don't know why he wasn't afraid. They said, "The air here is so good."
不怕的这些人中，家庭条件差者居多。
Those who are not afraid are more likely to be from poor families.
2“现在村子里几乎什么都没有”在求助信里，我写了四样求支援的物品，是因为我只知道这四样。
"There's almost nothing in the village right now" In my cover letter, I wrote four items to ask for help because I knew only these four.
而实际情况是，现在村里几乎什么都没有。
The truth is that there is hardly anything in the village now.
之前，我们让村民去市区买口罩，有人在药店买到一些，但现在全都买不到了。
Before, we had the villagers go downtown to buy masks. Someone bought some at the drugstore, but they can't buy any now.
说实话，我们这边没有什么雾霾，空气质量很好，所以我们对于口罩都很陌生，从来不用的。
To be honest, there is no haze on our side and the air is good, so we are unfamiliar with masks and never use them.
我们去医药公司买的时候，基本上被城里人买完了。
When we went to the drug company, we were basically sold out by the city people.
村里的医务室只剩下一两瓶酒精和几小包医务人员用的一次性口罩。
The village clinic had only one or two bottles of alcohol and a few small bags of disposable medical masks.
前几天，我们自个儿想办法，有一些人“裸奔”上战场。
A few days ago, we were trying to figure out our own way, and some of us were going naked.
27日，口罩就买不到了，大家都是托自己的关系，去跟买好的朋友、亲戚要的。
27, the mask can not buy, we are relying on their own relationship, to buy good friends, relatives.
口罩很薄，虽然担心达不到效果，但也必须戴，不然我们几个会变成交叉感染源，带着病毒到处走。
Masks are thin, and though feared to be ineffective, we must wear them, or we will become a source of cross-infection, carrying the virus everywhere.
我戴的是一次性口罩。
I'm wearing a disposable mask.
一个口罩，用了三天。
A mask. It took three days.
每天用完回来，拿酒精喷。
Every day when you come back, spray it with alcohol.
酒精是我妹妹给的，她以前是做美容的，家里有一瓶，送给了我。
My sister gave me the alcohol. She used to be a beautician. I got a bottle of alcohol for my family.
我每天都去丽江所有药店转一圈，但买不到。
I go around all the pharmacies in Lijiang every day, but I can't buy it.
村里防治工作最难点在于装备，其中口罩又是难中之难。
The most difficult problem in village prevention and control is equipment, among which mask is difficult.
我们工作组开了一个短会，会上说，我们都不怕死，但我们牵挂着背后的家人。
At a brief meeting of our working group, it was said that we are not afraid of death, but we care about our families behind us.
自己死了不怕，但家里的人足不出户，我们工作完要回去。
I am not afraid of death, but the family members do not leave the house, we have to go home after work.
大家都只有一个家，村委会里面也没办法住。
Everyone has only one home and there is no way to live in the village council.
所以回家前，大家只能用酒精喷一下。
So before we go home, we have to spray it with alcohol.
今天，白沙镇镇政府给村委会发了20个N95口罩，还有十袋消毒水。
Today, the town government in Peshawar distributed 20 N95 masks and 10 bags of disinfectant to the village council.
村委会做事的人有9个，工作组有10个人，一人分了一个，戴着在村口工作。
There were nine people working in the village council, 10 in the working group and one in the village, working at the entrance to the village.
村里的旅游合作社、小卖部，还有村委会的服务场所，这些区域都要消毒。
Village tourism cooperatives, commissaries, and village committee service sites, these areas are to be disinfected.
发求助信，是朋友的建议。
Letters of assist are the advice of friends.
我其实想问他有没有购买的渠道，我算了一笔账，因为村委会没钱，要买的话也只敢买一两万元，多的不敢保证，不然又要向上级争取资金。
I really want to ask him if there are channels to buy, I calculated a bill, because the village committee has no money, if you want to buy only dare to buy 10,000 yuan, many do not dare to guarantee, otherwise they will have to seek funds from their superiors.
争取的话，我也担心，因为现在重心在武汉。
If you fight for it, I'm worried too, because now the center of gravity is Wuhan.
我很纠结。
I'm getting tangled up.
我作为一个村委会主任，有义务先保全我们村，但我的能力也有限，所以非常纠结。
As a village committee director, I have the obligation to preserve our village, but my ability is limited, so very tangled.
▲ 玉湖村村委会张贴的宣传横幅。
Propaganda banners put up by the village council in Yuhu.
（受访者供图/图）3喊话“三个点”1月25日，村子实行了“软封村”。
Three Points to Say "Three Points" On January 25, a "soft-seal village" was introduced in the village.
我们在村子里的主入口设了服务点，村委会干部在那蹲守，村里的车出去了要登记；除了村里的车，其他车不准进。
We set up a service point at the main entrance to the village, where village committee officials were crouched and village cars out to be registered; no other cars were allowed in except the village cars.
那一天，村里的旅游合作社也停业了。
On that day, the village tourism cooperative was also closed down.
合作社已经开了十多年。
Cooperatives have been operating for more than a decade.
每户村民都养了一匹马，做初级的骑马旅游服务。
Each villager keeps a horse to serve as a junior horse-riding tour.
每天，每一家都有一个人去合作社。
Every day, one person from each family goes to the cooperative.
所以我们村里的接触率太高了。
So the contact rate in our village is too high.
我们担心，只要有一例病人，整个村都难以避免，因为村民与村民之间，90%以上都已经互相接触过了。
We fear that in just one case the whole village cannot be avoided because more than 90 per cent of the villagers have already been in contact with each other.
我还担心，有一些人即使是感冒、发烧，现在也说不好究竟是不是新冠肺炎。
I am also concerned that some people, even with a cold and fever, are not sure if it is the new crown pneumonia.
说实话，在我们这个区域，因为非常冷，感冒的人太多了。
To tell the truth, there are too many people in our region with colds because it is very cold.
而药物也拿不到，都卖完了。
And the drugs were not available. They were sold out.
全国都围着湖北武汉，我真担心一旦疫情在村里暴发，那就麻烦。
Hubei Wuhan is surrounded by the whole country, I really fear that if the outbreak in the village, then trouble.
最近，我都到很晚才睡得着。
I've been up late lately.
我们呼吁小卖部不要关门，因为他们也害怕，想关门。
We call on the canteen not to close, because they too are afraid and want to close the door.
但我们担心关了以后，老百姓的生活会有困扰。
But we are afraid that after the closure, the people's lives will be troubled.
所以我每天想着去哪买口罩，愿意花钱先买几个给小卖部的人。
So I think about where to buy masks every day, and I'm willing to pay for a couple of people to go to the grocery store first.
玉湖村分了9个组，每个组都有村民组长。
Yushu village was divided into nine groups, each with a village leader.
做防治工作时，组长给户主建微信群，在群里不停地说新冠肺炎的危害性。
When doing prevention and treatment work, the group leader to the head of the micro-group, in the group kept talking about the danger of new crown pneumonia.
用我们当地话说“三个点”，这也是白沙镇镇政府领导教我们的：“第一点，这个病会人传人，潜伏期就会传染；第二点，暂时还没有治疗这个病的药；第三点，这个病可能会死人。
"Three dots," in our local language, is what the leaders of Peshawar Town taught us: "First, the disease spreads from person to person, incubation period is contagious; secondly, there is no cure for the disease; and thirdly, the disease may kill people.
”我们就这样直接去跟他们说，现在好多了，村里走动的人很少了。
"So we went straight to them and told them that it was much better and that there were few people walking about in the village.
但前几天，我还很担心，因为村民都觉得拜年重要。
But a few days ago, I was very worried, because the villagers feel that New Year call is important.
我们少数民族地区在传统的方面又太古板，一定要去拜访长辈，所以我们压力比较大。
Our ethnic minority areas in the traditional aspects are too stuffy, must visit the elders, so we are more stressed.
老百姓的原话就是说，“人活着就是为了结个情”。
In the common people's words, "To live is to end a relationship."
有时候我们跟他说不清楚，只能讲，如果你们没有命了，以后就没办法见了。
Sometimes we don't know what to say to him, but if you lose your lives, you won't be able to see him again.
我们只能这么讲。
That's all we can say.
我家七口人，奶奶八十多岁了，姑姑想念老母亲，想来拜年，我叫他们不要来，用视频拜年。
My family of seven people, grandmother in her 80s, aunt miss the old mother, would like to visit the New Year, I told them not to come, with video.
我说，我是主任，要从我做起。
I said, I'm the director, start with me.
虽然我们只离了几公里，但是我不接待他们回家，也不准我家人出门。
Although we were only a few kilometres away, I did not receive them home, nor did I allow my family to go out.
我特别感谢我的家人理解我。
I am especially grateful to my family for understanding me.
一开始，他们跟我说，你一个人到处跑，如果你带了病毒回来，一家都得传染，要不你就别回了？最后他们还是让我回家。
At first, they told me that you were running around all by yourself, that if you brought the virus back, the whole family would catch it, or you wouldn't come back?
我回家的时候，都是把衣服脱在门口，媳妇给我备一小瓶酒精，让我去喷。
When I came home, I always took off my clothes at the door. My daughter-in-law brought me a small bottle of spirits and asked me to spray it.
除了线上宣传，我们还挂横幅、发广播。
In addition to online publicity, we also hang banners, broadcast.
村里的广播，用民族话做了录音，循环播放，告诉大家怎么预防。
The village radio, recorded in national languages, played back and forth, telling everyone how to prevent it.
村里的2名医务人员一直在医务室，给村里感冒的人检查，从早忙到晚。
Two village medical staff have been in the infirmary, checking out the village for colds from morning till night.
白沙镇没有收治新冠肺炎的定点医院，只能送到玉龙县和丽江市。
Pesha town has no designated hospital to treat new crown pneumonia, can only be sent to Yulong County and Lijiang City.
现在，全部病患集中到丽江市人民医院隔离了。
Now, all the patients have been isolated in Lijiang People's Hospital.
现在，我们党支部又开展了一个工作，因为村里有一百多个党员，就让党员、组长和支部书记分配任务，让党员挂钩农户，每个党员负责三个农户，去做宣传。
Now our Party branch has started another work because there are more than 100 Party members in the village. Party members, group leaders and Party secretaries are given the task of linking the members with the farmers, and each member is responsible for the three peasant households to carry out propaganda work.
我建议他们用手机通讯宣传，微信或是打电话，避免更多的交叉感染。
I recommend that they use mobile phones to communicate, microphone, or phone calls to avoid more cross-infections.
因为大家都没有有效的防护措施，所以我不让他们去串门。
Since no one had any effective protection, I wouldn't let them visit the door.
我们村的区域面积是36.7平方公里，绕着走一圈至少一小时。
Our village covers an area of 36.7 square kilometers and goes in a circle for at least an hour.
因为我们在雪山脚下，水源好，空气也好，很多客人觉得我们这里很安全，都跑来躲避。
Because we were at the foot of the snowy mountain, the water was good and the air was good.
但以我对病毒的认识，没有什么安全区。
But with my knowledge of the virus, there is no safe haven.
前几天出了些问题。
Something went wrong the other day.
白天，村是封锁的，但一些游客把车停在村外小树林，然后徒步进来，藏到村子里。
During the day, the village was closed, but some visitors parked outside the village in the woods, then walked in and hid in the village.
这些人，我们查出来都送去安置点。
These people, we found out and sent them to the settlement.
我和村支书几个人每天巡逻，巡查每一家民宿。
Several people from the village and I patrolled every house every day.
4每天损失60万大约从2003年起，玉湖村开始发展旅游业。
Since about 2003, Yuhu village has been developing tourism industry.
目前，村里每年要接待约20万游客。
At present, the village receives about 200,000 visitors a year.
其中，旅游合作社每天就有三四百位游客，再加上村里民宿接待的客人和自驾游的客人。
Among them, there are three to four hundred tourists a day from tourist cooperatives, plus guests hosted in the villages and those who drive their own cars.
春节和十一黄金周是村里的旅游高峰。
Spring Festival and National Day Golden Week are the peak tourism in the village.
春节时，玉龙雪山上有雪，很多人慕名而来。
During the Spring Festival, there is snow on the Yulong Snow Mountain.
但今年春节，新冠肺炎疫情对我们村产生了较大影响。
But this Spring Festival, the new crown pneumonia epidemic has had a greater impact on our village.
村里现在开业的民宿有8家，春节前就被预定完了，直到初十，全部满房。
The village now has eight residential homes open, the Spring Festival has been booked up to the end of the tenth, all full rooms.
但我们从初一就开始劝返了。
But we started to talk back from junior high.
80%-90%的村民都从事旅游业，一般情况下，他们初一、初二拜完年就开始工作，但今年，全都在家里呆着。
Between 80% and 90% of the villagers are engaged in tourism. In general, they start to work after the first and second year of junior high school, but this year, they all stay at home.
这个春节至今，村里的经济损失大概有300万（自1.26-30日）。
The economic loss of the village since the Spring Festival is about 3 million (from 1.26 to 30).
大头部分是民宿，一天的损失就差不多四五十万。
The bulk of it is residential, with a loss of almost four and a half million a day.
一些民宿比较高端，一晚房价是5800元，最低的民宿也是1280元，平均下来民宿的亏损在3000多元/间/晚，一家就有20多间房。
Some residential accommodation is relatively high-end, one night the price is 5,800 yuan, the lowest residential accommodation is 1280 yuan, the average residential losses in more than 3,000 / room / night, a family of more than 20 rooms.
另一部分是村民的损失。
Another part is the loss of villagers.
村里养马做租马生意的村民有四百户，每户一天能收入100元，一天就是4万元。
There are four hundred families in the village who keep horses to rent horses. They can earn 100 yuan a day, or 40,000 yuan a day.
村里还有一百多辆旅游车，比如一天500元，加起来就是5万。
There are also more than 100 tourist buses in the village, such as 500 yuan a day, making a total of 50,000.
再加上餐饮方面的损失，一天利润500元左右，三家就是1500元。
In addition to the loss of catering, a day profit of about 500 yuan, three is 1500 yuan.
以上这些加起来，村里一天差不多损失60万。
Taken together, the village lost nearly 600,000 a day.
2019年春节，每天的营收差不多就是这个数，从初一到初七，每天接待1000-1500人。
2019 Spring Festival, the daily income is almost this number, from the first day of junior high to seventh, daily reception 1000-1500 people.
今年原本的游客数量比去年还要上升10%。
The number of visitors this year was 10 percent higher than last year.
玉湖村目前的发展水平，在整个丽江的农村里属于中上。
The present development level of Yuhu village belongs to the upper middle class in the whole countryside of Lijiang.
因为我们全靠旅游，而很多其他村是靠水果蔬菜。
Because we rely on tourism, and many other villages are dependent on fruits and vegetables.
但我们海拔也在2700米左右，土地没法种，只能靠旅游。
But we are also about 2,700 meters above sea level, land can not be planted, can only rely on tourism.
1月26日之前，每天都有一千多名游客来村里，整个一月将近接待了3万人。
Before January 26, more than a thousand tourists visited the village every day, and nearly 30,000 people visited the village in January.
游客来自全国各地，旅行社的、自驾游的、住宿的、吃饭的都有，还有徒步的驴友。
Tourists come from all over the country, including travel agents, motorists, lodgers and diners, as well as hikers.
值得欣慰的是，那几个湖北籍游客被送到安置点后，我们一直和他们保持联系，目前还没有一个人发病。
Thankfully, we have kept in touch with the Hubei tourists since they were taken to the resettlement site, and no one has been ill yet.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）。
I am writing to inform you that your personal information will be kept confidential and that your phone number will be kept confidential.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我想保护好我的村”。
I want to protect my village.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“我想保护好我的村”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "I wanted to protect my village" and & quot;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
