你宅在家刷短视频，可视频博主们却快要断粮了。
You home brush short video, but video bloggers are about to run out of food.
郑洁瑶。
Cheng Jieyao.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Unsplash记者：郑洁瑶  编辑：文姝琪“ 看视频的人变多了，拍视频的人却没有变得更好。
Source: Unsplash reporter: Cheng Jieyao, editor: People watch more video, but the people who made the video didn't get better.
”小九犹豫再三，决定还是向粉丝解释一下现在的情况。
Xiaojiu hesitated and decided to explain the situation to his fans.
他穿着睡衣，坐在电脑前，打开了相机。
He sat in front of the computer in his pajamas and opened the camera.
“各位，由于疫情的原因，我们已经在家宅了一个多礼拜了，现在，我手里还有三期节前拍摄的视频，如果到二月底，疫情还没有缓解，那我们可能就真的要断更了。
"Gentlemen, we have been at home for more than a week because of the epidemic, and now I have three pre-festival videos in my hand, and if the epidemic does not subside by the end of February, then we may really have to stop.
”三年前，小九和朋友一起创建了“井盖小分队”这个IP，以北京地区的美食探店为主打内容。
Three years ago, Xiao Jiu and his friends set up the "Well Cover Squad," an IP featuring food exploration shops in Beijing.
到今天，这个IP在抖音、微博、B站等平台已经拥有超过300万的粉丝。
Today, the IP has more than 3 million fans on platforms such as Jitter, Weibo and B.
小九过去最骄傲的就是自己从未断更的战绩。
The proudest thing in the past is that he has never been more successful.
但现在，疫情当前，一切都得为安全让步。
But now, with the current outbreak, everything has to give way to security.
“还有什么办法呢？只能寄希望于疫情在二月底能够得到有效控制。
"What else can we do? We can only hope that the outbreak can be brought under effective control by the end of February.
”存片不够了这个春节，一场疫情，打乱了许多短视频创作者的更新节奏。
There isn't enough memory for the Spring Festival, and an epidemic has upended the pace of many short-video creators.
美食博主密子君，春节原计划要播出十几期台湾主题的美食节目，但做好后期时，节目已经不适合当前的舆论环境，只能选择延播。
Food blogger Miko Tzu, the Spring Festival originally planned to broadcast more than a dozen Taiwan-themed food programs, but by the end of the season, the program is no longer suitable for the current public opinion environment, can only choose to broadcast.
驻日旅行达人八爪，2月本来有北海道和美国的两个工作，但由于安全和游客大面积取消航班等原因，行程被迫取消。
The trip to Japan, which had two jobs in Hokkaido and the United States in February, had to be cancelled because of security concerns and extensive cancellations of flights by tourists.
固定的更新频率本来是短视频博主们专业性的证明，但疫情的突然爆发却让很多拍摄都无法进行，节前的库存也有很多不适合在疫情期间播放。
Fixed update frequencies were supposed to be proof of the expertise of short video bloggers, but a sudden outbreak of the epidemic prevented many filming, and many pre-season stocks were not suitable for broadcast during the outbreak.
小九春节前拍摄的视频，因为没戴口罩，刚一发出就收到了粉丝们铺天盖地的关心和问询。
Xiaojiu Spring Festival before the video, because did not wear masks, just received fans on the innumerable concerns and inquiries.
“怕有不好的影响，只能一个个和他们解释。
'For fear of bad influence, we must explain it to them one by one.
后来更是干脆拍了个视频解释。
Afterwards, he simply took a video explanation.
”而密子君准备播出节目时，正值台湾当局全面禁止口罩出口，“尽管多达3000多G的素材和团队将近一个月的努力都可能白费，但对于危害海峡两岸友好关系的行为，我们实在不能接受。
The program comes as authorities in Taiwan have banned all exports of face masks. "Although more than 3,000 gigabytes of raw materials and nearly a month of effort by the team may have been in vain, we simply cannot accept an act that jeopardizes friendly relations across the Strait."
”八爪虽然人在日本，但她工作室的后期人员却都在国内，由于疫情导致合作伙伴无法复工，让拍摄和后期的配合也变成了一件艰难的事情。
Although the eight claws are in Japan, the rest of her studio's staff are in the country, making filming and late-stage co-ordination difficult because the outbreak has prevented partners from returning to work.
2月初，八爪不得不选择暂时停更。
Early in February, eight claws had to choose a temporary stop.
而类似的问题在那些更加依赖线下场景和多人线下协同作业的MCN机构身上则更加凸显。
Similar problems are more pronounced in MCN mechanisms that rely more on offline scenarios and multiplayer collaboration.
康康是苏州新火网络的负责人，这是一家主营抖音代运营和网红孵化的小型MCN机构。
Kangkang is the head of the Suzhou New Fire Network, a small MCN mechanism that specializes in chattering and netting.
近一个礼拜，康康一直都在为企业的复工而忙碌。
For nearly a week, Kangkang has been busy trying to get the company back to work.
“必须要复工了，不复工的话，没有场景、没有演员、编导和后期没办法线下合作，根本没法拍摄。
"We have to get back to work, no scenes, no actors, no choreographers, no off-line cooperation, no shooting at all.
”为了维持更新，康康已经告知编导尽量策划一些不需要多职能配合的片子，但这样，内容的质量不可避免的会有下滑。
To keep things up to date, Kangkang has told editors to plan films that do not require multifunctional collaboration, but the quality of the content inevitably falls.
康康告诉界面新闻记者，往常，他们拍摄一个视频，最少也需要一个编导一个导演外加一个摄像和红人配合。
Kangkang told Interface News that, as a rule, they made a video that required at least one director plus a camera to work with the Red Man.
但现在，疫情因素，内容的生产只能靠演员在家自拍自剪。
But now, the epidemic factor, the production of content can only rely on actors at home to cut their own.
“而抖音上具备这种综合素质的达人太少了。
"" Too few people have this comprehensive quality in their flip flops.
”作为公司负责人，康康现在只能寄希望于尽快完成复工审核，恢复正常办公。
As head of the company, Kangkang can only hope to resume work and resume work as soon as possible.
不过，想要通过审核也没有那么容易，前期光是表格就要提交6、7份，内容涉及疫情防控工作方案、复工方案、承诺书、物资保障表、员工情况表等等。
However, it is not so easy to pass the audit. Six or seven copies of the form alone will be submitted in advance, covering the work programme for epidemic prevention and control, the return to work programme, the statement of commitment, the material security form, the employee profile, etc.
其中，最难解决的还是物资问题。
Of these, the most difficult is material.
康康称，春节前，他已经通过各种渠道储备了一些口罩和消毒产品，但还是不全。
Before the Spring Festival, Kangkang said, he had used various channels to store some masks and disinfect products, but was still incomplete.
“目前也只能先行提交表格，等待最终的审核结果。
"Only the forms can be submitted in advance, pending final review.
”而密子君为了不影响自己的更新节奏，新开辟了一个“消灭囤粮”的主题，力求在家也能保证稳定的内容输出。
Mikzu-jun, who wants to avoid compromising his own pace of renewal, has launched a new theme of "eliminating hoarding" to ensure stable content output at home.
消失的广告订单对众多短视频创作者和MCN来说，存片的不足或许还能通过变通和努力解决，但广告订单的流失却是摆在眼前的更加严峻的问题。
Vanishing advertising orders for many short video creators and MCN, the stock shortage may still be addressed through flexibility and effort, but the loss of advertising orders is a more acute problem.
App Growing的数据显示，今年春节，线下零售、电影、旅游等行业受疫情影响，广告投放基本处于暂停状态。
This Spring Festival, the off-line retail, film, tourism and other industries were affected by the epidemic, with advertising spending largely suspended, according to App Grown.
以八爪所在的旅游行业为例，数据显示，自1月24日起，除携程旅行外，头部的旅游住宿行业基本都暂停了大规模的广告投放。
In the tourism industry, where the eight claws are based, data show that the travel and accommodation industry, with the exception of Ctrip, has largely suspended large-scale advertising since January 24.
而这也意味着身为广告承接商的自媒体和MCN们失去了大量订单。
And that means that self-media and MCN advertisers have lost a large number of orders.
“年前在推进的项目基本都停了，甚至有客户直接就说我们没预算了，按这种趋势，2月份至少要损失几百万。
"The projects we were working on a couple of years ago have all but stopped, with clients saying we don't have a budget.
”某抖音排名前列的MCN工作人员告诉界面新闻记者。
One of the top-ranking MCN staff told the interface reporter.
康康也表示，年前，他们本来已经谈好一家餐饮连锁企业的抖音代运营单子，但因为疫情，该企业已经通知要将招标延期，“本来就定了我们了，合同也在准备，但现在这种情况，只能等。
Kangkang also said that they had negotiated a restaurant chain operation order a few years ago, but because of the outbreak, the company had informed it that it would postpone the tender.
”还有一些合作是已经在进行的，但由于存片不适合目前的基调，企业方也提出要推迟合作。
There has been some co-operation already under way, but companies are also proposing to postpone co-operation because the film doesn't fit the current tone.
在康康看来，以现在的市场情况，一季度过后，应该很多小型MCN机构都会撑不下去。
In Kangkang's view, given current market conditions, many small MCN institutions should not survive the first quarter.
“一季度广告基本凉凉，现在大家还能抗，但过段时间，可能很多公司就会开始进行人员优化。
"First-quarter advertising is cool, and now everyone can resist, but over time, maybe a lot of companies will start optimizing their staff.
”当然，也有一种选择是积极拓展新业务自救。
One option, of course, is to actively expand new businesses to help themselves.
一条创始人徐沪生在接受新榜采访时指出，虽然广告主会暂停投放广告，但是用户还是要买东西，这个时候，建议新媒体创业者立即拓展广告之外的收入来源，比如电商销售和知识付费。
Xu Husheng, one of the founders, said in an interview with the new advertising agency that advertisers would suspend their advertising but still want to buy, advising new media entrepreneurs to immediately expand sources of income other than advertising, such as sales of electricity and payment for knowledge.
“广告不是唯一的收入模式，卖货、卖课都可以。
"Advertising is not the only mode of income. It can be sold or sold.
像我们就和上百家微信号有分销（商品）的合作，分成比例还不低”。
Like us and hundreds of microsignal distribution (commodity) cooperation, the proportion is not low. "
”康康也表示，为了能抗过一季度，他正在尝试所有可能的新业务，包括直播。
Kang also said he was experimenting with all possible new businesses, including live broadcasts, in order to survive the quarter.
而在新业务带来收入之前，“催款、融资、借贷，这些方法都要试。
And before the new business generates revenue, "get calls, raise money, borrow, all of these things.
理论上，很多品牌都会在第二季度加大投资力度，以此来补偿一季度的亏损。
In theory, many brands will increase their investments in the second quarter to compensate for quarterly losses.
只要能扛到那个时候，现在的难题就会迎刃而解。
If only I could carry it through, the problem would be solved.
”直播会是新出路吗？整个2月，如果说还有什么新媒体业态是完全没有受到疫情影响的，也就只有直播了。
Will live broadcasting be a new way out? Throughout February, if there were any new media developments that were completely unaffected by the epidemic, they were broadcast live.
直播到底有多火？2月10日，抖音用户“谁家的圆三”在家直播睡觉，一觉醒来，发现不仅有1850万人观看他睡觉，粉丝也暴涨了80多万。
How hot was the live broadcast? On Feb. 10, the dither user, "Whose Round Three," woke up to find that not only 18.5 million people watched him sleep, but fans swelled by more than 800,000.
而在圆三一炮而红后，抖音用户“大圆子”也紧接着发起了一场猫咪的睡觉直播，一场下来，打赏净挣了1万元。
After the success of the round trio, the "big circle" of chattering users immediately launched a cat's sleep broadcast, a game down, a reward of 10,000 yuan.
而那些因疫情大受影响的夜店、健身房等行业，近日也都因云蹦迪、云健身等直播热点的出现，而多少缓解了一些闭店的损失。
And those affected by the outbreak of night shops, gyms and other industries, have recently been due to the emergence of cloud bungee, cloud fitness hot spots, and more or less alleviated some of the losses.
2月10日，复工的日子，杭州某营销机构副总监杨硕发了这样一条朋友圈：“有网红在家无聊的，可以找我做直播，有保底，有流量，在家也能赚钱。
Feb. 10, the day of resumption of work, a Hangzhou marketing agency deputy director of Yang Zhuofa such a circle of friends: "There are home boring red, you can find me live, there are undercover, traffic, can also make money at home.
”此前，杨硕更多的精力还是会放在线下发布会和电商带货上。
Mr Yang had previously put more energy into offline launches and carrier shipments.
但疫情袭来的日子，线下活动暂停，电商发货受困，反而给了杨硕一个发展直播的动力。
But the outbreak of the day, off-line activities were suspended, electrical shipping stranded, but gave Asus a development live power.
“我们本来就预判今年抖音直播会成为风口，2月红人都困在家里，正好把握住这个机会。
"We had expected this year's chatter to be the bellwether, and the February crowd was stuck at home, taking advantage of the opportunity.
”在杨硕看来，抖音直播既能带货、又能品宣，本身又是一个巨大的流量池，做好以后会有非常大的好处。
In Mr Yang's view, the live airwaves, which carry both goods and publicity, are themselves a huge flow pool and will be of great benefit when done.
而且抖音和其他的秀场直播还不太一样，想要把抖音直播做起来，短视频也要抓，而如果本来就有短视频基础，做直播就能更省力一些。
And the jitter is not quite the same as other live shows. If you want to make the jitter live, you want to catch short video, and if you have a short video base, you can do it live more easily.
也因此，近一段时间，很多短视频机构都开始转型直播艰难自救。
As a result, recently, many short video organizations began to transform the live broadcast difficult self-help.
杨硕就听到不少机构对旗下红人提出每天上播的要求，“上播就算了，还要求人家每天播够三、四个小时。
Mr Yang heard a number of organisations demand daily broadcasts from their hottest people. "Even if it is broadcast, they are required to broadcast three or four hours a day.
”然而，直播和短视频的内容呈现方式有很大区别，像这样为了自救将达人不经培训就赶鸭子上架的，很难做出真正的成绩。
However, there is a big difference between the way content is presented live and short, and it's hard to make a real difference when you're trying to save yourself by pushing people to the shelves without training.
“短视频机构培养出来的达人，大多习惯了完成那种有剧本有编导的固定拍摄，对于直播这种比较随意的，考验主播才艺、情商、口才的展现模式。
"Short video institutions out of the Talent, most accustomed to complete the kind of script and director of the fixed shooting, for live broadcast of this more casual, testing talent, emotional intelligence, eloquence of the model.
如果并不擅长，强行去做，效果不一定会很好。
If you're not good at it, force it, and it doesn't necessarily work.
”杨硕告诉界面新闻。
Mr Yang told the Interface News.
但另一方面他也同意，这也是现阶段许多机构的无奈之举，“毕竟红人都闲在家里，持续的上播至少还能有些收入。
But on the other hand, he agrees that this is the current stage of many institutions helpless, "after all, the red people are idle at home, continued broadcast at least some income.
而且，短视频+直播的模式，如果真的走通了，后续也能增加整个公司的抗风险能力。
Moreover, short video + live broadcast mode, if really go through, can also increase the overall company's ability to resist risk.
”在他看来，今年短视频直播行业的市场一定是向上的。
In his view, the market for this year's short-video live broadcast industry must be up.
疫情结束以后，随着消费、旅行、餐饮等行业的复苏，广告营销行业也一定会迎来一波报复性增长。
After the epidemic, with the recovery of consumption, travel, catering and other industries, advertising marketing industry is bound to usher in a wave of retaliatory growth.
也因此，现在最重要的，就是利用这空下来的时间，思考接下来的发展方向，然后有针对性的进行人员的调整和培训，等待机会的降临。
Therefore, it is important to take advantage of this free time, think about the next direction of development, and then targeted personnel adjustment and training, waiting for the opportunity to come.
“说白了还是要活下去，只有活下去，才有希望。
To be frank, to live, to live, to have hope.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
你宅在家刷短视频，可视频博主们却快要断粮了。
You home brush short video, but video bloggers are about to run out of food.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "你宅在家刷短视频，可视频博主们却快要断粮了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "看视频的人变多了，拍视频的人却没有变得更好。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the number of people who watched the video grew, but not the person who made it.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
