山东任城监狱确诊207例，司法厅长监狱长等8人被免。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases, the head of the judiciary and other 8 people were relieved.
牛其昌。
Niu Qichang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：牛其昌“ 因任城监狱疫情防控不力，经山东省委研究决定，免去解维俊同志的省司法厅党委书记、厅长，省监狱管理局党委书记、第一政委职务；王玉君同志任省司法厅党委书记，省监狱管理局第一政委，提名为省司法厅厅长人选。
Reporter: Niu Qichang "due to the poor control of the epidemic situation in the city prison, Shandong Provincial Committee decided to remove Comrade Xie Wei-jun's secretary, director of the provincial judicial bureau, secretary of the provincial prison administration party committee and first commissary of the provincial department of justice.
”据大众网2020年2月21日消息，因任城监狱疫情防控不力，经山东省委研究决定，免去解维俊同志的省司法厅党委书记、厅长，省监狱管理局党委书记、第一政委职务；王玉君同志任省司法厅党委书记，省监狱管理局第一政委，提名为省司法厅厅长人选。
Comrade Wang Yu-jun was appointed secretary of the Party committee of the provincial prison administration and first commissary of the First Commissar of the Provincial Prison Administration. Comrade Wang Yu-jun was appointed secretary of the Provincial Department of Justice and the First Commissar of the Provincial Prison Administration.
另据闪电新闻报道，被免职的还有另外7名干部，分别是：省监狱管理局党委副书记、政委姜运华，省监狱管理局党委委员、副局长王文杰，任城监狱党委书记、监狱长刘葆善，任城监狱党委副书记、政委刘勇刚，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长陈为宁，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长（试用期）邓体贺，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长（试用期）房德峰。
Lightning also dismissed seven other cadres, namely: Deputy Secretary of the Provincial Prison Administration Party Committee, Political Commissar Jiang Yunhua, Provincial Prison Administration Party Committee Member, Deputy Director Wang Wenjie, Zhengcheng Prison Party Committee Secretary, Political Commandant Liu Yonggang, Ren Zhengcheng Prison Party committee member and deputy prison director Chen Weining, a member of the city prison Party committee, deputy prison director (probation period), Ren Cheng prison committee member, deputy prison director (probation) Fang Defeng.
2月21日，闪电新闻报道称，2月20日，山东全省报告新增确诊病例202例，其中任城监狱200例。
On February 21, Lightning News reported 202 new confirmed cases across Shandong province on February 20, including 200 at Ren Cheng prison.
截至24时，累计确诊病例748例（含治愈出院270例，死亡病例4例）；新增疑似病例12例，现有疑似病例30例。
By 2400, a cumulative total of 748 cases (including 270 cured and 4 fatal cases) had been diagnosed; 12 new suspected cases and 30 existing suspected cases had been reported.
截至目前，追踪到密切接触者16450人，已解除医学观察13996人，尚有2163人正在接受医学观察。
To date, 16,450 close contacts have been traced, 13,996 medical observations have been lifted and 2,163 are still under medical observation.
关于任城监狱发生的新冠肺炎疫情，截至2月20日，山东省已全面完成对该监狱相关人员2077人的核酸检测，确诊病例207例，其中，干警7例，服刑人员200例，干警7例之前已统计在济宁病例中即时发布。
With regard to the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia in Ren Cheng Prison, as of February 20, 2,077 people in Shandong Province had received nucleic acid tests, and 207 cases had been confirmed, including 7 cases of policemen and 200 cases of prisoners.
对所有确诊人员已采取了有效治疗措施。
Effective treatment measures have been taken against all persons diagnosed.
组织流行病学专家全力做好排查和溯源工作。
Organize epidemiologists to do their best to inventory and trace the source.
山东省司法厅党委副书记、省监狱管理局党委书记吴磊在新闻发布会上表示，2月12日下午，任城监狱一值班干警因咳嗽到医院就诊被隔离收治，13日晚22时经双试剂检测后诊断为新冠肺炎确诊病例；同日下午18时，该监狱一备勤干警经核酸检测后诊断为确诊病例。
In the afternoon of February 12, a police officer on duty at Ren Cheng Jing was quarantined for coughing and diagnosed as a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia after being tested by double reagents at 2200 hours on February 12, and a case diagnosed as confirmed by nucleic acid test at 18.00 p.m. on the same day, said Wu Lei, deputy secretary of the Shandong Provincial Prison Administration Party Committee.
吴磊介绍，两名干警被隔离收治后，即对任城监狱干警职工、服刑人员及密切接触者全面排查，对相关监区、备勤区、家属区封闭管理，全面做好排查、筛查、隔离、救治等工作。
Wu said that two police officers were quarantined and treated, that is, Ren Cheng prison staff, prisoners and close contacts, the relevant prison areas, reserve areas, family zone closed management, comprehensive screening, screening, isolation, treatment and other work.
“任城监狱此次发生疫情，说明我们防控工作的措施落实不力，深感自责。
"The outbreak of the disease at Ren Cheng Jail demonstrates the inadequacy of our preventive and control measures and deeply remorse ourselves.
”吴磊表示，根据省委的统一部署，主要采取了以下措施：对任城监狱立即开展了全面筛查隔离。
Mr Wu said that, in line with the unified deployment of provincial committees, the following measures had been taken: an immediate comprehensive screening and isolation of Ren Cheng prison.
2月14日即对任城监狱密切接触人员开展拉网式排查，并将干警职工密切接触者全面转运至指定宾馆进行隔离；对任城监狱干警家属区落实全封闭管理，做好隔离场所和监狱现场消杀消毒工作。
On 14 February, close contact with Ren Cheng prison staff was screened, and close contact between them was fully transferred to designated hotels for isolation; the police district of Ren Cheng prison was placed under a closed control, and the work of disinfection and disinfection of quarantine and prison sites was carried out.
2月15日起，将任城监狱服刑人员转移，全部实施单间隔离。
On 15 February, all inmates of Ren Cheng prison were transferred to solitary confinement.
2月16日，对任城监狱所有干警职工、服刑人员及相关人员开展核酸检测；21日起开展第二轮全面检测，确保不漏一人，坚决阻断扩散渠道。
On 16 February, nucleic acid tests were carried out on all police, prison and related personnel at Ren Cheng prison; a second round of comprehensive testing was launched on 21 February to ensure that no one was missing and to firmly block the proliferation channels.
吴磊称，为救治患者，在省卫健委、住建厅和济宁市的支持下，以最快的速度建成定点医院，医院投入使用后，将全力配合医护人员救治患者，为医护人员提供好服务保障。
Wu said that in order to treat the patients, under the support of the provincial health committee, the residential building hall and Jinning City, the fastest speed to build a designated hospital, when the hospital put into operation, will fully cooperate with medical personnel to treat patients, to provide good service guarantee for medical personnel.
其次，对全省监狱系统开展全面排查。
Second, a comprehensive inventory of the provincial prison system.
2月14日凌晨，派出15个专项检查组，分赴全省监狱督导防控措施、责任落实落地情况。
In the early morning hours of February 14, 15 special inspection teams were dispatched to the province to supervise and control measures, responsibility implementation on the ground.
每天对全体干警、职工和服刑人员进行三次体温测量，发现体温异常者，立即隔离观察。
All police, workers and prisoners are taken three times a day to take temperature measurements, and those with abnormal body temperature are immediately isolated and observed.
对干警职工及其他人员22387人全部排查，除任城监狱外未排查发现其他疑似或确诊病例。
All the police and other personnel 22,387 people were screened, except Ren Cheng prison did not find any other suspected or confirmed cases.
全省各市疫情防控指挥部已经将监狱纳入地方党委政府疫情防控大盘子，各市落实责任制，对监狱实行包干负责。
The Provincial Directorate of Disease Control and Prevention has incorporated prisons into the local party committee government's disease prevention and control plates, and the municipalities have implemented the responsibility system and taken responsibility for prisons.
全省各监狱都制定了疫情防控应急预案，备好隔离房间，准备好防护物资，确保一旦发生疫情，立即启动应急预案，迅速做好排查、隔离、救治，防止疫情扩大蔓延。
Every prison in the province has made emergency plans for epidemic prevention and control, prepared quarantine rooms, prepared protective materials, ensured that in the event of an outbreak, the emergency plan was activated immediately, and was promptly screened, quarantined and treated to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
三是对全省监狱系统实行封闭管理。
Third, the whole province's prison system to implement closed management.
1月27日开始，对全省监狱实行封闭管理，在狱内执勤的干警已连续工作26天，这部分执勤干警疫情不结束，不进行警务轮换，狱外人员一律不进入狱内，狱内生活物资实行无接触运送，切断传染源。
The closure of prisons throughout the province began on 27 January, with dry police officers on duty working for 26 consecutive days without an end to the outbreak of the police on duty, no rotation of police, no outside personnel entering the prison, no contact with the inside of the prison and cutting off the source of infection.
对狱外办公区域也实行封闭管理。
Off-site areas are also subject to closed management.
提高服刑人员的生活标准，增加营养，增强免疫力。
To improve the living standards of prisoners, increase nutrition and strengthen immunity.
公开资料显示，山东省任城监狱筹建于1999年，2003年6月11日经司法部批复正式成立。
According to public information, the Shandong Ren Cheng Prison was set up in 1999 and officially established by the Ministry of Justice on 11 June 2003.
监狱地处济宁市，位于任城区二十里铺街道。
Jining City is located in Jining City, located in the twenty-li shop street.
2007年，山东省任城监狱创建成“部级现代化文明监狱”，2011年被选定为司法部预防犯罪研究所科研基地。
In 2007, Ren Cheng prison in Shandong Province was established as a "modern civilized prison at ministerial level" and in 2011 was selected as the scientific research base of the Institute of Crime Prevention of the Ministry of Justice.
该监狱曾先后荣获山东省监管改造工作先进单位、山东省绿色生态监狱先进单位、山东省司法行政系统先进基层单位、全国监狱劳教（戒毒）场所规范化管理年活动先进集体等荣誉称号。
The prison has won the honor of advanced unit of supervision and renovation in Shandong Province, advanced unit of Green Ecological Prison in Shandong Province, advanced unit of judicial administration system in Shandong Province, and advanced group of standardized management year activities in penitentiary re-education (detoxification) sites nationwide.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
山东任城监狱确诊207例，司法厅长监狱长等8人被免。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases, the head of the judiciary and other 8 people were relieved.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "山东任城监狱确诊207例，司法厅长监狱长等8人被免";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with 207 cases diagnosed at Ren Cheng prison in Shandong Province, and with Ren Quote exempted from & quot; eight, including the governor of justice.
var msg_desc = "因任城监狱疫情防控不力，经山东省委研究决定，免去解维俊同志的省司法厅党委书记、厅长，省监狱管理局党委书记、第一政委职务；王玉君同志任省司法厅党委书记，省监狱管理局第一政委，提名为省司法厅厅长人选。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; As a result of poor disease control at Ren Cheng prison, Comrade Xie Weijun was relieved of the secretary and director of the Provincial Justice Department, the secretary of the Provincial Prison Administration Party Committee and the First Political Commissar of the Provincial Prison Administration.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
