韩国激增52例确诊，重灾区开始向军营蔓延。
South Korea surged 52 confirmed cases, the worst-hit areas began to spread to the barracks.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月18日，在首尔医疗院。
18 February, Seoul Medical Institute.
图片来源：韩联社记者:刘芳“ 总理丁世均表示，将把大邱市、庆尚北道清道郡指定为传染病特别管理地区，并果断采取相关措施防控疫情。
Photo: Liu Fang: "Prime Minister Ding Shi Ju said the city of Daegu, Qingdao County in Gyeongshan Province will be designated as the special management area for infectious diseases, and will take relevant measures to prevent and control the epidemic.
已有14660人接受检测，其中2707人的结果尚未出炉。
A total of 14,660 people have been tested, 2,707 of whom have yet to be tested.
”2月21日上午，韩国中央防疫对策本部通报新增52例新冠肺炎确诊病例，该国累计确诊增至156例。
On the morning of February 21, the Central Anti-epidemic Policy Ministry announced 52 new cases of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 156.
同时，韩国海军和空军出现了现役军人确认感染。
Meanwhile, the ROK Navy and Air Force have had active-duty soldiers confirm the infection.
作为防疫政策，国防部决定从22日起限制官兵外出。
As a vaccination policy, the Ministry of Defence has decided to restrict troop movements from 22 days.
界面新闻从消息人士处获知，目前韩军队内有3名现役军人确诊，分别是来自济州岛海军部队的一名22岁男子，忠清北道部队的一名31岁男子和忠清南道空军部队一名25岁男子。
The Interface News was informed by sources that three active-duty soldiers, a 22-year-old man from the Jeju Island Naval Force, a 31-year-old man from the Chonghong North Province Army and a 25-year-old man from the Tongqing South Province Air Force, were confirmed.
这一消息已在韩国中央日报得到确认。
The news has been confirmed in South Korea's Central Daily.
据韩联社报道，在济州岛服役的海军士兵是韩国军队内首个被确诊的病例。
The Navy soldier serving on Jeju Island was the first case to be confirmed in the South Korean military, the Yonhap news agency reported.
他从2月13日开始到大邱休假，18日下午乘飞机返回济州并归队，20日因出现咳嗽等症状到医院筛查诊所接受病毒检测后重返部队。
He was on leave from 13 February to Taegu, returned to Jeju by plane on the afternoon of 18 February and returned to the army after suffering coughing and other symptoms on 20 February.
在忠清北道部队服役的31岁男子为现役军官（陆军中尉），其女友为新天地大邱教会信徒。
The 31-year-old man serving in the army of Chungqing North Province was an active-duty officer (lieutenant in the army) and his girlfriend was a member of Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
据韩国中央日报报道，这名军官有发烧等症状，目前已经被转送至国民警卫队首都医院接受治疗。
South Korea's Central Daily reported that the officer has fever and other symptoms, has been transferred to the National Guard Capital Hospital for treatment.
而在21日上午，在忠清南道服役的25岁空军中尉也被确诊，目前被转移到国家武装力量医院。
On the morning of the 21st, a 25-year-old Air Force lieutenant serving in Chongnam Province was also confirmed and transferred to the National Armed Forces Hospital.
在韩国，大邱和庆尚北道出现大规模集体感染，成为主要疫区，特别是新天地大邱教会有数十名教徒被确诊。
In South Korea, large-scale mass infections have occurred in Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province, where dozens of believers have been diagnosed, particularly in Taegu Church, Xintiandi.
在今天新增的52个确诊案例中，41例发生在大邱和庆尚北道地区，其中39例与新天地大邱教会有关。
Of the 52 new cases confirmed today, 41 occurred in Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province, 39 of which were related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
总统文在寅已下令彻查此前参加大邱新天地教会礼拜活动和葬礼的人员。
President Wen Yin Yin has ordered a thorough investigation of those who attended church services and funerals in Taegu Xintiandi Church.
另外，庆尚北道清道郡一家医院精神科的5名护士感染新冠肺炎，卫生部门对该医院600名患者和医护人员进行病毒核酸检测，16人呈阳性反应。
In addition, five nurses from a hospital in Ching Road, Gyeongshan North Province, contracted pneumonia in the New Crown Pneumonia, and the Department of Health tested 600 patients and medical staff for viral nucleic acid testing, 16 of whom were positive.
为防止疫情扩散，国防部决定从22日起限制官兵外出，但退役前休假、丧假等特殊情况例外。
In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, the Ministry of National Defence decided to restrict the departure of officers and soldiers from 22 days, with the exception of special circumstances such as pre-retirement leave and bereavement leave.
另外，韩军正在对本月初曾到大邱和庆尚北道地区休假的官兵人数进行调查。
Separately, the South Korean army is investigating the number of officers and men who visited Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province earlier this month.
据军方人士透露，第一轮调查中，某部队本月10日后去过大邱和庆北地区的官兵有1000多人，预计综合海陆空三军的调查结果后这一数字会更多。
In the first round of the investigation, more than 1,000 troops were seen in Daegu and Gyeongbei districts after the 10th month, according to military sources, and this figure is expected to increase after the combined army, navy and air force survey.
韩联社表示，韩军目前有多支人数较多的部队驻扎在大邱和庆北地区，包括陆军第二作战司令部下属部队、空军军需司令部和第11战斗飞行团等。
The agency said the South Korean army currently has a number of larger units in Taegu and Gyeongbei regions, including units under the Army's Second Operational Command, the Air Force Quartermaster Command and the 11th Combat Air Corps.
韩国国务总理丁世均。
South Korean State Minister Ding Se-jung.
来源：韩联社鉴于这两个地区对韩国军队和国防的重要性，国务总理丁世均在21日上午主持中央应急处置本部扩大会议时表示，将把大邱市、庆尚北道清道郡指定为传染病特别管理地区，并果断采取相关措施防控疫情。
Due to the importance of the two regions to the ROK military and national defense, Chinese Premier Ding Shi said on the morning of the 21st, when he presided over the expanded meeting of the Central Emergency Management Headquarters, that Daegu city, Qingdao Gyeongshan Province will be designated as the special management area for infectious diseases.
丁世均表示，政府将在该地区采取特别防疫措施，全面提供病床和人力物力支持。
Ding said the government will take special measures to prevent the disease in the region, providing full hospital beds and human and material support.
在国内累计确诊病例过百，部分地区还出现社区感染的情况下，政府将审时度势沉着应对，今后将把防疫重点由防止病毒从国外流入境内转为严防国内社区传染，尽举国之力克服疫情。
With a cumulative total of over 100 confirmed cases in the country and the emergence of community-based infections in some areas, the Government will take stock of the situation and focus its epidemic prevention efforts on preventing the transmission of the virus from abroad to the domestic community, making every effort to overcome the epidemic.
另据韩国中央防疫对策本部消息称，截至21日上午9时，除确诊患者外，韩国接受新冠病毒检测的人数为14660人，其中11953人的结果呈阴性，还有2707人的结果尚未出炉。
The number of people tested positive for the virus was 14,660, with 11,953 negative results and 2,707 results still pending, according to the Ministry of Anti-epidemic Policy of the Republic of Korea.
中央防疫本部的统计数据。
Central epidemic prevention headquarters statistics.
除了军队禁止外出作为防疫政策外，韩国教育部决定以全国外籍中小学生为对象调查近期是否访问过中国等情况，调查对象包括在校生和提交入学申请的学生全员。
In addition to the military ban on travel as an immunization policy, the Ministry of Education has decided to conduct a nationwide survey of foreign primary and middle school students on whether they have visited China in the near future.
具体调查内容包括这些外国学生近期是否访问过中国大陆和港澳地区，在国外停留的学生何时回国等信息。
Details include whether the foreign students have visited mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao recently, and when they will return home.
另外，教育部还建议各校禁止最近14天内访问过中国大陆和港澳地区的学生到校上课，校方每天负责检查两次学生的健康状态。
Schools are also advised not to allow students who have visited mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao in the last 14 days to attend classes, and are responsible for checking the health of students twice a day.
近期访华学生数占在校生总数30%以上的学校可经与教育和防疫部门协商后推迟开学。
Schools that have recently visited more than 30 percent of the total number of students can postpone the start of classes after consultation with the education and epidemic prevention authorities.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国激增52例确诊，重灾区开始向军营蔓延。
South Korea surged 52 confirmed cases, the worst-hit areas began to spread to the barracks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国激增52例确诊，重灾区开始向军营蔓延";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; South Korea's 52 cases were diagnosed, and the hardest hit areas began to spill over to its barracks.
var msg_desc = "总理丁世均表示，将把大邱市、庆尚北道清道郡指定为传染病特别管理地区，并果断采取相关措施防控疫情。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Prime Minister Ding Se-tat has said it will designate Daegu, Qingdao County in Gyeongshan North Province as a special area for infectious-disease management, and has taken decisive steps to prevent and control the epidemic.
已有14660人接受检测，其中2707人的结果尚未出炉。
A total of 14,660 people have been tested, 2,707 of whom have yet to be tested.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
