中国游客减少，北海道特产“白色恋人”工厂暂停生产。
Fewer Chinese tourists and production at Hokkaido's specialty "white lovers" plant have been suspended.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
“ 这是一种拥有40多年历史的巧克力夹心饼干。
"It's a chocolate chip cookie that has been around for more than 40 years.
公司暂定两个工厂停产至3月15日。
The company tentatively plans to close two plants until March 15.
”由于新型冠状病毒疫情扩大、中国游客数减少导致销售额下降，日本北海道札幌市的点心制造商石屋制果宣布从2月20日起暂停生产主打商品“白色恋人”。
As sales fell due to the spread of the new coronavirus and a drop in Chinese tourists, Ishiguro, a maker of snacks in Sapporo, Hokkaido, announced a moratorium on production of its main commodity, the "white lovers," from February 20.
这是一种拥有40多年历史的巧克力夹心饼干，广受中国游客喜爱。
It is a chocolate sandwich cookie with a history of more than 40 years and is popular with Chinese tourists.
这家创建于1947年的公司宣布，其札幌市西区和北广岛市的工厂将停产至3月15日，同时札幌市的工厂在3月23日至27日也会停产。
The company, founded in 1947, announced that its factories in Sapporo, west and north Hiroshima, would be shut down until March 15, while factories in Sapporo would be shut down from March 23 to March 27.
石屋制果说：“在现行停产时间之后，是否继续停产也要看今后的状况，所以还不清楚。
"After the current shutdown, it is also up to the future, so it is not clear," he said.
希望新型冠状病毒的疫情扩散能尽快结束。
Hopefully the spread of the new coronavirus will end soon.
”受新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情扩大的影响，春节长假期间访问日本的中国大陆游客减少约20%。
Tourists from mainland China visiting Japan during the Lunar New Year holiday fell by about 20 percent as a result of the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak.
日本观光厅长官田端浩透露，日中之间的定期航班与疫情扩大以前相比减少约70%，并指出“影响将在2月以后显现”。
Japan's tourism chief, Hiroshi Guada, said regular flights between Japan and China were down about 70 percent from before the outbreak spread, and said "the impact will be felt after February."
2019年，访日中国游客达959万人次，占到整体访日游客的3成，在各国家和地区中居首。
In 2019, 9.59 million Chinese tourists visited Japan, accounting for 30 percent of the total number of visitors, the highest among all countries and regions.
假设北海道2月和3月团体游客为零，估算旅游消费将比上年同期减少200亿日元（约合人民币13亿）以上。
Assuming zero group visits in Hokkaido in February and March, tourism consumption is estimated to be more than Y20bn ($1.3 billion) lower than a year earlier.
此外，由于日本国内确诊患者增多，其他国家游客或不再选择日本作为旅游目的地。
In addition, due to the increase in confirmed cases in Japan, tourists from other countries may no longer choose Japan as a tourist destination.
日本理索纳综合研究所2月12日曾发布估算数据称，受新冠病毒肺炎疫情影响，到今年5月，访日外国游客消费将减少6244亿日元（约合人民币369亿元）。
Foreign tourists will spend 624.4 billion yen (36.9 billion yuan) less by May because of the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, the institute said on Tuesday.
理索纳综合研究所首席研究员荒木秀之表示：“如果肺炎疫情平息迟缓，对东京奥运会和残奥会造成阻碍，那么影响额恐怕会大幅上升。
"If the pneumonia is slow to subside, hindering the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, then the impact could increase dramatically," said Yasushi Arai, chief researcher at the Risona Institute of General Studies.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国游客减少，北海道特产“白色恋人”工厂暂停生产。
Fewer Chinese tourists and production at Hokkaido's specialty "white lovers" plant have been suspended.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "中国游客减少，北海道特产“白色恋人”工厂暂停生产";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; fewer Chinese tourists; and Hokkaido's specialty, "White Lovers" factory suspended production and quotation;;
var msg_desc = "这是一种拥有40多年历史的巧克力夹心饼干。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a chocolate sandwich with a history of more than 40 years.
公司暂定两个工厂停产至3月15日。
The company tentatively plans to close two plants until March 15.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
