湖北藕供应紧俏，挖藕人还在等待上岗。
Hubei lotus root supply is tight, digging lotus root people are still waiting for duty.
赵晓娟。
Zhao Xiaojuan.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
雪中挖藕人。
Dig lotus root in the snow.
图片来自：图虫记者：赵晓娟编辑 ：昝慧昉“ “不止粉藕难买到，什么藕都不好买到，因为藕农歇了导致产量断了”。
Photo from: Toothworm reporter: Zhao Xiaojuan Editing: "More than lotus lotus root hard to buy, what lotus root is not easy to buy, because lotus root stopped production."
”在湖北买不到湖北藕？家住武汉光谷和后湖的两名消费者抱怨，现在买菜不易，买藕则难上加难。
Two consumers who live in Guanggu and Houhu in Wuhan complain that buying vegetables is not easy and buying lotus root is even more difficult.
位于武汉后湖区域的一家天鲜配商家告诉界面新闻，涨价肯定是涨了的，现在藕产品不好批发，消费者下单也必须走订单制，第一天预定次日送达，“不止粉藕难买到，什么藕都不好买到，因为藕农歇了导致产量断了”。
Wuhan Houhu region of a rare matchmaker told the interface news, price increases are certainly rising, lotus root products now wholesale, consumers order must follow the order system, the first day scheduled to arrive the next day, "not only lotus lotus root hard to buy, nothing can be bought, because lotus root stopped production."
眼下大型超市虽未完全断货，但消费者也得盯着手机屏幕看准补货时间来抢货了。
While big supermarkets aren't completely out of stock, consumers are still staring at the screen to make up for lost time.
武汉市强鑫蔬菜产销专业合作社，是盒马在武汉的供应商，其负责人告诉界面新闻，因为封村和不让人聚集的要求，藕农暂时还不能大面积挖藕，只有基地附近的少部分塘可以挖，藕每天只有一两千斤的供应量，得供应给盒马和武商两家。
Wuhan City Qiangxin vegetable production and marketing professional cooperatives, is a box horse supplier in Wuhan, the director told the interface news, because the closure and do not allow people to gather demand, lotus lotus farmers can not dig lotus root, only a small part of the pond near the base can be dug, lotus root only a day, supply a box of horses and Wu merchants.
眼看快要“断粮”，采购商也开始加紧联系藕农。
Looking about to "stop food", buyers have also begun to intensify contact with lotus farmers.
湖北荆州洪湖的梁仁雕拥有200多亩藕田，最近，他接到的电话多半是询问能否少量开挖藕田的。
Hubei Jingzhou Honghu Liang Yan carving has more than 200 mu lotus lotus field, recently, he received the telephone is mostly asked whether a small amount of excavation lotus field.
“好几个挖藕师傅给我打电话，问我这几天能不能开始挖藕。
"Several diggers have called me to ask me if I can start digging lotus root these days.
他们是家里的主要劳动力，往年这个时间还要再挖一个月的藕才会休息。
They are the main labor force in the family, this time of the year to dig another month lotus root will rest.
”梁仁雕告诉界面新闻，因为疫情，没有接到通知没有人敢去挖藕。
Liang told the interface news that no one dared to dig lotus root because of the outbreak.
尽管已经有挖藕工人开始催促，他也不太敢冒这个险。
Although some of the workers have started to urge, he did not dare to take the risk.
对于挖藕师傅来说，这个时间段仍然是赚钱的旺季，没有人想错过。
Dig lotus root master, this period is still a good season to make money, no one wants to miss.
梁仁雕向界面新闻介绍，春节前后由于气温低、下霜早，挖藕人较辛苦，所以这个时间的挖藕师傅工资会更高，也意味着藕农的人工成本会增加。
Liang Yan carving to the interface news, the Spring Festival around the low temperature, frost early, dig lotus root people more difficult, so this time dug lotus root teachers will be higher wages, also means lotus root farmers labor costs will increase.
挖藕师傅每天工作6-7小时，人均挖藕300-400斤，每斤能赚1.1至1.2元的人工费。
Dig lotus root master daily work 6-7 hours, each person dug lotus root 300-400 jin, per catty can earn 1.1 to 1.2 yuan of labor costs.
因此，莲藕终端售价也会水涨船高，零售价在5-6元一斤。
Therefore, lotus root terminal prices will also rise, retail prices in 5-6 yuan a catty.
按照往常，在梁仁雕的藕田中，挖藕师傅再干一个月，就到了放藕秧子（种藕）的时间，他们通常会回家休息近一个月，到5月早期的藕带开始上市，这是莲蓬的收获季；7月则是3537（品种名）的藕开始上市，这种藕鲜嫩爽脆，也被人称作新藕；接着到了8月，洪湖最为知名的粉藕就可以开挖了，挖藕人的劳作也基本围绕这一生产周期，一直挖到来年4月。
As usual, in the lotus root carving in the field, dug up lotus root master for another month, to put lotus root seeds (lotus root) time, they usually will go home for nearly a month, lotus lotus harvest in early May, this lotus lotus root in July, the lotus root, the most famous lotus root can be dug up, until August, digging lotus root workers basically around the production cycle until April.
周而复始。
The cycle continues.
为梁仁雕挖藕的师傅。
Dig lotus root for the master.
图片自受访者湖北莲藕的种植面积及产量位居全国第一，种植面积达到200多万亩，产量占全国莲藕总产量的三分之一。
The picture shows that the planting area and yield of lotus root in Hubei Province is the highest in China.
公开资料显示，整个湖北省莲藕主产县包括蔡甸、汉川、洪湖、仙桃、浠水、江夏、东西湖、云梦、监利、赤壁、嘉鱼等10多个县市。
It is indicated that the main producing county of lotus root in Hubei Province includes more than 10 counties and cities such as Cai dian, Hanchuan, Honghu, Xiantao, mobility, Yangtze River, East-West Lake, Yunmeng, Buli, Chibi and Jiayi.
梁仁雕的藕田所在的荆州洪湖地区，过去低洼地势，在地质反复演变中，形成了洪湖青泥巴特有的土壤。
Liang Yan carving lotus lotus is located in the Honghu area of Jingzhou, in the past low-lying terrain, in the geological evolution, the formation of Honghu green mud unique soil.
这种土壤肥力足，质地细腻柔软，抓肥能力强，适合莲藕生长。
This soil fertility sufficient, texture delicate soft, grasp fertilizer ability strong, suitable for lotus root growth.
故而，洪湖莲藕形状长、饱满，淀粉含量丰富。
Therefore, Hong Lake lotus root shape long, full, rich starch content.
2015年，“洪湖莲藕”获得了农产品地理标志登记。
In 2015, the "Hong Lake Lotus Root" was registered as a geographical indication of agricultural products.
梁仁雕的藕田多半是粉藕，少部分是3537，还有一部分是子莲——专门用于生产藕带、莲子、莲蓬。
Liang Yan carving lotus root field is mostly pink lotus root, a small part is 3537, and a part of lotus - dedicated to the production of lotus belt, lotus seeds, lotus.
整体算下来，他的藕田一年的总产量在30吨左右。
Taken as a whole, the total output of his lotus root field is around 30 tons a year.
往年，梁仁雕会挖藕挖到腊月二十八，今年在腊月二十五六时收工，彼时疫情刚爆发。
In previous years, Liang Ren carving will be dug lotus root to 28, this year at the end of the twenty-sixth month, when the outbreak of the outbreak.
如果没有疫情，年后这个时间挖藕师傅基本会陆续到岗。
If there is no epidemic, after this time of year lotus root teachers will be basic to the post.
他没有想到疫情持续了这么久，而且不知道何时能结束。
He had no idea that the outbreak had lasted so long and when it would end.
不过梁仁雕告诉界面新闻，年前粉藕已经出货了75%左右，剩余的量并不太大，现在没有办法进行挖藕作业，只好把藕池子里放满水，减缓光合作用来抑制藕的生长。
However, Liang told the interface news, flour lotus root has been shipped 75% or so years ago, the remaining amount is not too large, there is no way to dig lotus operations, had to lotus lotus pool full of water, slow down photosynthesis to inhibit the growth of lotus root.
如果过一段时间还不能开挖，就得留作种藕。
If you can't dig for a while, you have to leave a seed lotus root.
梁仁雕的藕田。
Liang benevolent carving lotus root field.
图片自受访者和粉藕种植户相比，洪湖市弘科水生蔬菜种植专业合作社的赵科几乎不受影响，他的700亩藕田以种植藕带为主。
Photograph by the respondents and lotus root farmers, Honghu City Hongke aquatic vegetable cultivation professional cooperatives almost unaffected, his 700 mu lotus lotus field to plant lotus belt.
百科资料显示，藕带是莲的幼嫩根状茎，由根状茎顶端的一个节间和顶芽组成。
Encyclopedia data shows that lotus lotus root is a young rhizome, from the top of the rhizome of a node and bud composition.
藕带与莲藕为同源器官，条件适宜时，藕带膨大后就成为了藕。
lotus root and lotus root as homologous organs, when the conditions are appropriate, lotus root swollen after becoming lotus root.
不受影响的原因是，现在的季节，是藕带在水下生长的季节，到5-8月开始收割。
The reason for not being affected is that the current season, lotus root belt in the underwater growth season, until May-August to start harvesting.
赵科的藕带大概亩产1500斤，由规模更大的专业公司以订单形式采购，最后流向餐饮市场。
Zhaoke lotus root belt about 1500 jin per mu, by larger-scale professional companies to purchase in the form of orders, finally flow to the catering market.
海底捞也是这些藕带产品的去向之一，此外还有航空公司、高铁等客户。
Bottom fishing is also one of the destinations of these lotus root products, in addition to airlines, high-speed rail and other customers.
赵科告诉界面新闻，与粉藕相比，藕带的利润空间要大一些，因为种植管理更为麻烦，粉藕只需要管理水位，不要让塘里的水位大幅度升降，涉及的人工不多，而藕带有100天的关键收割期，每天都需要采摘收割，人力成本更多。
Zhao told the interface news, and lotus root, lotus root profit space is larger, because planting management is more troublesome, lotus root only need to manage water levels, do not let the pond water level, involving little labor, lotus root with 100 days of key harvest, daily harvest, more human costs.
武汉江夏区农业局一名专家对界面新闻表示，目前来看真正受影响的是粉藕，这种莲藕销售旺季在春节前，储存期比较长，春节后一个月粉藕采摘量虽不多，但正常时间里年后再会迎来一次销售小高潮。
Wuhan Jiangxia District Agricultural Bureau, an expert told the interface news, the real impact is lotus root sales season before the Spring Festival, the storage period is relatively long, although the Spring Festival after a month lotus root harvest, but normal time will usher in a small sales climax.
按照以往，消化掉年前的存量藕，多数挖藕师傅将开始新一轮的挖藕工作，市场上的藕供应随之增多，价格也会平稳。
In the past, digestion of the stock lotus root, most of the digger will start a new round of lotus root work, the market supply of lotus root will increase, prices will be stable.
但今年挖藕师傅无法上岗，一些采购商的存货也已见底，藕农复工的要求越来越紧迫。
But this year dug lotus master unable to work, some buyers inventory has also seen the bottom, lotus root farmers back to work more and more urgent.
2月21日，梁仁雕得到消息，他所在的市场为此开始考虑给藕农派发通行证，在检查合格并办理好通行证之后，便可以少量挖藕。
On February 21, Liang received news that his market began to consider lotus root farmers to issue permits, after the inspection of qualified and processed a small number of lotus root.
梁仁雕告诉界面新闻，这两天已经开始办理通行证了，不过一天只能挖300斤左右，他的藕田还剩余5万斤藕可以开挖。
Liang told the interface news, these two days has begun to handle pass, but can only dig about 300 jin a day, his lotus root leaves 50,000 jin can be excavated.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北藕供应紧俏，挖藕人还在等待上岗。
Hubei lotus root supply is tight, digging lotus root people are still waiting for duty.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北藕供应紧俏，挖藕人还在等待上岗";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Hubei lotus supply is tight, and lotus digging is still waiting for & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“不止粉藕难买到，什么藕都不好买到，因为藕农歇了导致产量断了”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Not just lotus root is hard to buy, because lotus root stopped and production was cut off."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
