东京奥运会相关峰会被取消，英国体育官员否认接手奥运计划。
The Tokyo Olympics summit has been canceled and British sports officials have denied taking over the Games.
罗盈盈。
Lo Ying Ying.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：罗盈盈“ 这场体育盛会能否如期揭幕依然存在变数。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Luo Ying-ying: "Whether or not this sporting event will be unveiled as scheduled is still a mystery.
”新冠肺炎疫情在日本有愈演愈烈的趋势，原定今年7月揭幕的东京奥运会面临挑战。
The Tokyo Olympics, which were due to open in July, faced challenges after the outbreak of pneumonia in Japan.
2月21日，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在记者会上强调，东京奥运会和残奥会将如期举行。
On February 21, Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Naoto Kan stressed at a press conference that the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games would be held as scheduled.
这是东京奥组委自1月31日以来，第四次发表奥运不会取消的声明。
It was the fourth time since January 31 that the Games would not be canceled.
他表示，结合新冠肺炎扩散的情况，日本政府将切实推进奥运会和残奥会的筹备工作，确保赛事在安心安全的情况下举行，并强调，“国际奥委会相信我们能够妥善应对”。
He said that in the light of the spread of pneumonia, the Japanese government would press ahead with preparations for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, ensuring the event would be held safely and securely, and stressed that "the IOC believes we can respond appropriately."
不过，当前东京奥运会前期的部分相关活动已经被叫停。
However, some of the current activities related to the run-up to the Tokyo Olympics have been called off.
据当地媒体报道，鉴于新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情在日本呈蔓延趋势，日本政府在2月21日决定，取消面向东京奥运会的“东道主小镇峰会”。
The government decided on February 21 to cancel the "Host Town Summit" for the Tokyo Olympics in the light of the spread of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Japan, local media reported.
据悉，该活动原定于2月22日在东京都举办。
It is reported that the event was scheduled to be held on February 22 in Tokyo.
东道主小镇峰会，是日本政府面向东京奥运会和残奥会准备的一次交流活动，该活动原定召集日本全国各地的自治体，就奥运会中与其他国家的交流事宜进行讨论。
The Host Town Summit was an exchange event for the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, which was supposed to bring together autonomous communities from across Japan to discuss Olympic exchanges with other countries.
如今，日本政府不得不取消这一峰会。
Today, Japan's government has to cancel the summit.
日本厚生劳动省表示，要求活动主办方重新探讨举办聚集性活动的必要性。
Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare said the event organizers were asked to re-explore the need to hold a gathering.
相关文件指出，如果参加者需要在无法保持足够距离的情况下接触，会提高感染风险，要求各界警惕。
It was noted in the relevant documents that exposure of participants to situations where adequate distances could not be maintained would increase the risk of infection and require vigilance on all sides.
“现阶段，并不是要一律叫停。
"At this stage, we are not going to call it a day.
活动是否举办，最终还是由主办方自己做出判断，”厚生劳动省官员加藤胜信表示，不仅只有停办这一选项，也可选择改日举办。
Ultimately, it's up to the organizers to decide whether or not to hold the event, "said Kato, an official with the Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry.
对于备受关注的东京奥运会和残奥会，他表示，“将关注日本国内的疫情状况，未来再发出相关信息。
As for the much-watched Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, he said: "We will keep an eye on the situation in Japan and send messages in the future."
”早前，东京奥组委曾强调，“东京奥运会绝对不会取消，我们没有B计划。
Earlier, the Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Games (TOKYO) stressed that "the Tokyo Olympics will never be cancelled and we have no plan B.
”东京方面表示，会采取一切可能的措施来应对疫情带来的威胁。
Tokyo said it would take all possible measures to deal with the threat posed by the outbreak.
这些措施主要集中在两个方面，一是防止奥组委内部出现感染，以免奥运会筹备工作受到妨碍，二是防止奥运会期间运动员受到感染，为可能出现的感染提出应对预案。
The main focus of these measures is to prevent infection within the IOC, so as not to hamper preparations for the Games, and to prevent athletes from becoming infected during the Games and to plan for possible infections.
按照原计划，东京夏季奥运会和残奥会，将分别于2020年7月24日-8月9日以及8月25日-9月6日期间举行。
As originally planned, the Tokyo Summer Games and Paralympic Games will be held from 24 July to 9 August and from 25 August to 6 September 2020, respectively.
在日本面对严峻疫情之际，2月20日，英国保守党伦敦市长候选人贝利（Shaun Bailey）公开表示，如果新冠肺炎疫情迫使东京奥运会易地举行，伦敦将做好举办的准备。
On Feb. 20, Shaun Bailey, the Conservative Party's London mayoral candidate, said publicly that London would be ready to host the new crown pneumonia if it forced a change of venue.
贝利在社交媒体上写道，“我敦促国际奥委会认真考虑，一旦有需要，伦敦随时准备好主办奥运。
"I urge the IOC to seriously consider London's readiness to host the games if the need arises," Bailey wrote on social media.
我们有所需的设施和经验，如果我当选市长，若需要帮忙，我保证伦敦能再次主办体育界盛事。
We have the necessary facilities and experience, and if I am elected mayor, if I need help, I promise London will again host a sporting event.
”对于贝利的这一言论，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在记者会上表示，“海外的事情，（日本）政府不予置评。
"The government declined to comment on overseas matters," Chief Cabinet Secretary Naoto Kan told a news conference.
”尽管伦敦曾举办2012年夏季奥运会，拥有完备的场馆资源和经验条件，但国际奥委会回应称，暂时没有理由进行临时性规划将奥运会取消或易地。
Although London hosted the 2012 Summer Olympics and has the resources and experience to do so, the IOC has responded that there is no immediate reason to plan for the cancellation or change of venue on an ad hoc basis.
与此同时，世界卫生组织负责突发卫生事件的助理总干事瑞安亦表示，现在判断东京奥运是否延期或停办，仍为时过早。
Meanwhile, World Health Organization Assistant Director-General for Health Emergencies Ryan says it is too early to say whether the Tokyo Olympics will be delayed or suspended.
在伦敦，贝利的表态则受到质疑，外界认为，他的言论是为5月伦敦市长选举造势。
In London, Mr Bailey's comments, seen as a campaign for mayoral elections in London in May, have been questioned.
据路透社报道，一名英国体育官员称，伦敦没有接手的计划，“这是一位市长候选人的表态，而非英国或伦敦的态度。
According to Reuters, a British sports official said London had no plans to take over, "a statement from a mayoral candidate, not from Britain or London.
”据日本厚生劳动省和各地方政府的消息，截至当地时间2月20日24时，日本国内累计确诊新冠肺炎病例728例，死亡3例。
The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and local governments said 728 new cases of pneumonia had been confirmed and three deaths had been reported in Japan as of 2400 local time on February 20.
其中，停靠在横滨的钻石公主号邮轮确诊634例。
Of these, 634 cases were diagnosed by the MV Princess Diamond docked in Yokohama.
实际上，日本体育界已经受到疫情的影响。
In fact, Japanese sports have been affected by the epidemic.
近期举办的东京马拉松宣布取消大众参赛，原本报名成功的3万多名大众跑者无缘参赛。
The recent Tokyo Marathon announced the cancellation of the popular competition, which excluded more than 30,000 successful runners.
而3月份将要进行的多项测试赛，虽然目前没有取消的打算，但已经有部分队伍因为担心疫情而退出。
There will be a number of tests in March, although there are no plans to cancel, but some teams have withdrawn for fear of the outbreak.
奥运会的历史上，没有因为公共卫生事件而取消的先例，此前只是在一战和二战期间被取消过三届比赛，东京曾受影响——1940年东京奥运会因二战被取消，直至1964年，东京才首次举办奥运会。
There is no precedent in the history of the Olympics for public health reasons. It was cancelled only three times during World War I and World War II, and Tokyo was affected - the 1940s Tokyo Olympic Games were cancelled by World War II, and it was not until 1964 that Tokyo hosted the Games for the first time.
如今，日本即将时隔56年再次举办奥运会，这场体育盛会能否如期揭幕依然存在变数。
Now, with Japan about to host the Games again every 56 years, it remains to be seen whether the sporting event will be unveiled as scheduled.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
东京奥运会相关峰会被取消，英国体育官员否认接手奥运计划。
The Tokyo Olympics summit has been canceled and British sports officials have denied taking over the Games.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "东京奥运会相关峰会被取消，英国体育官员否认接手奥运计划";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; The Tokyo Olympics summit was canceled; British sports officials denied taking over at least & quot; Olympic plans;;
var msg_desc = "这场体育盛会能否如期揭幕依然存在变数。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether the sporting event will be unveiled as scheduled remains a mystery.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
