谁是“假阴性”新冠肺炎病人。
Who is a "false-negative" patient with pneumonia.
汤禹成 谭畅。
Tang Yucheng Tan Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲1月24日，在武汉大学中南医院重症隔离病房，医护人员在隔离服上写下名字，方便辨认。
January 24, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital in the severe isolation ward, the medical staff in the isolation clothes written down, easy to identify.
（新华社记者 熊琦/图）全文共5856字，阅读大约需要12分钟。
The full text is 5,856 words and takes about 12 minutes to read.
湖北省医学影像专业委员会副主委谭伟认为，CT结果非常符合新冠肺炎但核酸检测为阴性的病例大约占30%—40%。
Tan Wei, deputy director of Hubei Medical Imaging Commission, said the CT results were very consistent with New Crown Pneumonia but negative nucleic acid tests accounted for about 30-40 percent of cases.
在杭州一所医院，有个病人测了6次核酸试剂都为阴性，直到第7次才测出阳性。
At a Hangzhou hospital, a patient tested negative for six nucleic acid reagents and did not test positive for the seventh time.
多位一线医生表达了类似观点，对核酸检测最重要的影响因素首先是样品采集。
Several frontline doctors have expressed similar views, and the most important factor affecting nucleic acid testing is, first and foremost, sample collection.
台州一家定点医院收治的一对核酸检测均为阴性的夫妻，该医院不敢放他们走。
A couple who tested negative for a pair of nucleic acids at a designated hospital in Taizhou did not dare to let them go.
妻子天天闹，喊着“国家都确诊我们没病了，你们还把我关在这儿”，还在隔离病房里大骂护士。
My wife screams every day, "The state confirms we're not sick, and you shut me in here," and yells at the nurses in the isolation ward.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汤禹成 谭畅南方周末特约撰稿 闫力元 蒋芷毓责任编辑 | 何海宁拿到核酸检测结果时，吴姐感到惊讶。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce the nucleic acid test results. Sister Wu was surprised when Tang Yucheng, a reporter from Southern Weekend, wrote Yan-yuan Jiang Yun-yun, the responsible editor and official.
2020年1月，吴姐和儿子李哲（化名）先后发热生病。
In January 2020, Wu Jie and her son Li Zhe (alias) became feverish and ill.
在核酸检测之前，他们在武汉市第九医院照了CT：儿子的结果是双肺感染，吴姐则是双肺感染性病变，有磨玻璃状阴影。
Before the nucleic acid test, they took a CT scan at Wuhan city's Ninth Hospital. The result was a two-lung infection in her son and a two-lung infection in her sister Wu.
吴姐还照了两次，她说，她曾将CT结果给一些医生看，医生们都认为高度疑似新冠病毒感染，病状也高度吻合。
Wu, who also took two pictures, said she showed the CT results to doctors, who agreed that the infection was highly suspected and the symptoms were highly consistent.
住在留观室那几天，母子二人住在不同病房。
During the stay-in days, the mother and the child lived in separate wards.
李哲每次去看母亲，都能见到母亲在和不同人通话，念叨着希望能进行核酸测试。
Every time Li Zhe goes to see his mother, he sees her mother talking to different people, saying that she hopes to have a nucleic acid test.
1月28日、29日，他们终于盼到了核酸检测的机会，连着做了两次。
On January 28 and 29, they finally got a chance to test for nucleic acids, and did it twice in a row.
第一天，医生拿着咽拭子在吴姐口腔取样，第二天，则在鼻腔取样。
The first day, the doctor took swabs in Wu's mouth, the next day, in the nasal cavity sampling.
只是，结果出乎意料。
It was just, uh, unexpected.
李哲的核酸检测结果为“阳性”，病症更严重、起病更早的吴姐，却是“阴性”。
Li Zhe's nucleic acid test results are "positive," the disease is more serious, early onset Wu Jie, but "negative."
这并非个案。
This is not an isolated case.
在早期，对疑似病人而言，能拿到试剂盒便是“中了彩票”。
In the early days, for a suspected patient, getting the kit was "winning the lottery."
而现下起了变化。
And now there's a change.
即使症状吻合、CT提示肺部病毒感染的病人，也无法获得“阳性”确诊。
Even patients with anastomotic symptoms and CT signs of pulmonary infection were unable to obtain a "positive" diagnosis.
这本是个好消息，如今反倒成为病人新的担忧。
That was good news, but now it's a new worry for patients.
有病人可能是真阴性，但也有些人可能会在数次检测后，由阴性转阳性。
There may be patients who are truly negative, but some people may be tested several times, from negative to positive.
他们无法在最初被定义为新冠病毒感染者，也就意味着，他们可能被医院拒之门外，病情可能突然加重，身边人也存在被感染风险。
Their inability to be initially defined as infected means that they may be shut out of hospitals, that their condition may suddenly increase, and that those around them are at risk of infection.
进入新年的2月，网络上核酸检测为阴性的求助帖渐多。
In February of the new year, there is an increasing number of online nucleic acid tests negative for help.
湖北省医学影像专业委员会副主委谭伟告诉南方周末记者，根据其临床经验，他认为CT结果非常符合新冠肺炎但核酸检测为阴性的病例大约占30%—40%。
According to his clinical experience, Tan Wei, vice-chairman of Hubei Medical Imaging Commission, told Southern Weekend that he believed CT results were very consistent with New Crown Pneumonia but negative nucleic acid tests accounted for about 30-40 percent of cases.
李哲开始住院治疗，吴姐则没那么顺利，她还没来得及做第三次核酸检测，也不知晓之后是否会转为阳性，病情在加重，日夜担忧着住院问题。
Li Zhe began hospitalized, Wu Jie is not so smooth, she did not have time to do a third nucleic acid test, do not know whether will become positive after the disease is increasing, day and night worry about hospitalization.
1第7次才测出阳性“我真的希望自己的检测结果呈阳性。
I really want to test positive. I really want to test positive.
”吴姐说，自己运气不好，如果是阳性，可能就有希望住院了。
Wu said she was unlucky enough to be hospitalized if she tested positive.
按她的描述，她的病情在不断恶化。
She described her condition as deteriorating.
最早照CT时，吴姐还能行动如常。
The earliest according to CT, Wu Jie can still act as usual.
而现在，她极度依赖氧气。
Now, she is heavily dependent on oxygen.
她在留观室的病床离厕所只有不到三米远，但每次上厕所，必须坐很久，等呼吸很稳定，才敢慢慢走过去。
Her bed in the observation room was less than three metres from the toilet, but she had to sit for a long time each time she went to the toilet and waited for her breath to be steady before walking slowly.
鼻子、口腔全都要大口呼气，哪怕是上厕所这么短的时间，她也几乎不能坚持。
Her nose and mouth all need to exhale, and she can hardly hold on to the toilet for even that short time.
另一个家庭，吴希一家七口人，有三个已被确诊。
Another family, the Wuxi family of seven, has been diagnosed with three.
外公在确诊当晚就离世了。
Grandpa died the night he was diagnosed.
床位稀缺，外公的床位留给了后来确诊的外婆。
Bed was scarce, and Grandpa's bed was reserved for the later-diagnosed grandmother.
吴希家做了核酸检测的人里，表姐窦娟是唯一的阴性病人，但她的双肺影像已显示病毒性炎症。
Cousin Dou Juan is the only negative patient in the Wuxi family who tested for nucleic acid, but her two-lung images have shown viral inflammation.
她成了吴希最担心的家人之一。
She became one of Wu's most worried family members.
吴希说：“两次阴性都不能排除，李文亮都是在第三次才测出阳性的。
"Both negative results cannot be ruled out. Li Wenliang only tested positive for the third time," Wu said.
”她口中的李文亮，是最早将此次疫情传出的“造谣”医生之一。
Li Wenliang, in her mouth, was one of the first "disinformation" doctors to report the outbreak.
李文亮共查了3次核酸，第一次结果未知，第二次为阴性，第三次才为阳性。
Lee Wenliang a total of three nucleic acids, the first results are unknown, the second negative, the third positive.
这是他当天在微博上宣布的消息，离他起病已过去了23天。
It was announced on his microblog that day, 23 days after his illness.
不惟武汉，在浙江台州，一家定点医院的医务科主任告诉南方周末记者，他在2月3日的视频会议上，听省级专家说起，在杭州一所医院，有个病人测了6次核酸试剂都为阴性，直到第7次才测出阳性。
Wuhan, the director of a designated hospital in Taizhou, Zhejiang Province, told Southern Weekend reporter that he had listened to provincial experts speak of a patient who tested negative nucleic acid reagents six times at a Hangzhou hospital until he tested positive for the seventh time.
他所在的医院也有类似病例。
Similar cases were reported in his hospital.
一对从武汉回来的夫妻发烧，肺部影像报告也显示病毒感染，但三次核酸检测都是阴性。
A couple from Wuhan returned with a fever, and lung imaging reports showed virus infection, but three nucleic acid tests were negative.
也不惟病人，多位在疫区的医生向南方周末记者证实，现在存在病人核酸检测阴性转阳性的情况。
Also not patient, many doctors in the affected areas confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter that there is now a case of negative nucleic acid test positive.
一位在武汉一线支援的医生称，在他所在的医院，很多病人的临床症状和CT影像，都符合新型冠状病毒感染，但这些人的核酸检测结果，阳性少，阴性多。
A doctor with first-line support in Wuhan said the clinical signs and CT images of many patients in his hospital were consistent with the new coronavirus infection, but they tested positive for fewer nucleic acids than for more negative ones.
在南方周末记者获得的一张统计表中，很多阴性病人没有进行第二次检测。
In a report obtained by Southern Weekend reporter, many negative patients did not undergo a second test.
这位医生解释，武汉疾控中心每天只给他所在医院50个检测指标，数量有限，医院也无能为力。
The doctor explained that Wuhan CDC gave him only 50 tests a day in his hospital, a limited number of which the hospital could do nothing about.
也有再次检测的病人，这其中，有人仍保持阴性，但也有一人转变为阳性。
There were also patients who were tested again, some of whom remained negative, but one of them became positive.
很多阴性病人在申请第二次检测机会。
Many negative patients are applying for a second test.
林军和他的母亲便是如此。
Lin Jun and his mother were like this.
林军女儿说，核酸检测要向社区申请，排队等审批，“但是那样太难等了”。
Lin's daughter said the nucleic acid test had to be applied to the community, queued for approval, "but that was too difficult to wait."
他们换着医院排队，争取再做一次核酸检测，林军听说也有病人检查三次都是阴性，第四次才显示阳性。
They lined up at the hospital for another nucleic acid test, and Lin Jun heard that three tests were negative and the fourth positive.
2走样的咽拭子取样2月3日，武汉大学中南医院影像科副主任张笑春的朋友圈截图在网络上流传。
2 Sampling of stray pharynx swab February 3, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, deputy director of the imaging department Zhang Xiaochun Friends Circle screenshots circulated on the network.
她认为：在武汉疫区，应该以CT影像作为目前2019-nCoV肺炎筛查的主要依据；同时给予无症状或核酸检测阴性但CT影像阳性的人予以隔离，以防造成家庭聚集感染。
She said: CT images should be used as the main basis for screening for 2019-nCoV pneumonia in Wuhan; people who are asymptomatic or negative for nucleic acid testing but who are CT-positive should also be isolated in order to prevent family-focused infections.
她接受媒体采访称，她发出朋友圈的原因之一是，一些CT诊断阳性的病人由于核酸检测结果为假阴性，漏诊后回到家里，最终造成家庭聚集发病。
One of the reasons she sent out the circle of friends was that some CT-positive patients returned home after missing a diagnosis because of false negative nucleic acid tests, which eventually led to family agglomeration, she said.
为什么检测会存在“假阴性”？据南方周末记者了解，新型冠状病毒的检测包括“样品的采集”“病毒核酸的提取”“病毒核酸的检测”，每一个步骤都会对结果产生影响。
According to Southern Weekend reporter, the detection of the new coronavirus includes the collection of samples, the extraction of viral nucleic acid, the detection of viral nucleic acid, and every step will have an impact on the results.
在采访中，多位一线医生表达了类似观点，最重要的影响因素首先是样品采集。
In the interview, a number of frontline doctors expressed similar views, the most important influencing factor is the sample collection.
目前，咽拭子在口腔和鼻腔取样是最普遍的样本采集方式。
At present, pharyngeal swab sampling in the oral and nasal cavity is the most common sampling method.
在武汉一线支援的检验科医生王锐智说，检验业内常说“garbage in, garbage out（垃圾标本出垃圾结果）”。
Wang Ruizhi, an examination doctor with first-line support in Wuhan, said the inspection industry often said "garbage in, garbage out the results."
他称，因为新冠病毒主要是在下呼吸道，而咽拭子取样是属于上呼吸道，具体操作是用拭子擦拭两腭弓、咽及腭扁桃体上的分泌物来获取标本。
He said that because the new cap virus is found mainly in the lower respiratory tract, swabs are collected from the upper respiratory tract by swabbing secretions from the palatal arch, pharynx and palatine tonsils.
新冠病毒临床管理指南指出，应同时检测上呼吸道和下呼吸道的标本以提高检出率，但在王锐智的观察中，下呼吸道的标本相对难获得，所以很多医院都没有做到同时检测。
Guidelines for clinical management of the new crown virus indicate that samples of both upper and lower respiratory tract should be tested at the same time to improve detection rates, but in Wang's observations, samples of the lower respiratory tract are relatively difficult to obtain, so many hospitals do not do so at the same time.
另一位一线医生说，咽拭子取样最便于推广，可操作性强，痰液不是随时都有，而肺泡灌洗液的提取涉及气管镜，操作不便，而且医护人员更容易感染。
Another first-line doctor said swabs are the easiest to sample, easy to manipulate, sputum is not readily available, and the extraction of alveolar lotion involves tracheoscope, is difficult to operate, and medical staff are more susceptible to infection.
取样的技术也会影响检测准确性。
Sampling techniques can also affect detection accuracy.
一位医生说，经验不足的护士可能获取不到合格的标本，从而导致假阴性。
One doctor said inexperienced nurses may not be able to get qualified specimens, leading to false negatives.
但一个更现实的原因存在于经验之外。
But a more realistic reason lies outside experience.
谭伟告诉南方周末记者，核酸检测最早由湖北省疾控中心来做，很多医护人员由于口对口面对病人，结果被传染，现在检测扩大到更多医院后，一方面有很多不专业的人来检测，取样的部位不够深，到不了咽部，更重要的原因是，有人会害怕自己靠得太近被传染，更容易导致取样不到位。
Now that tests have been expanded to more hospitals, many unprofessional people are testing the samples not deep enough to reach the pharynx. More importantly, some people may fear that they will be too close to be infected and that sampling will not be in place.
实验操作也是可能的影响因素。
The experimental operation is also a possible factor.
熟悉体外诊断试剂的王锐智说，新型冠状病毒检测的操作步骤比较多，因此实验员操作出错的机会也会比较多。
Wang Ruizhi, who is familiar with the in vitro diagnostic reagent, said that the new coronavirus detection procedures are more, so the chances of operator error will be more.
加之目前每天检测的标本非常多，检验人员处于高负荷的工作状态，操作出错几率会增加。
In addition to the current daily testing of a very large number of specimens, inspectors in a high-load working state, the risk of operational errors will increase.
3仓促上阵的试剂盒另一个病人关心的问题，有关试剂盒性能。
Hasty use of the kit another patient is concerned about the performance of the kit.
王锐智说，疫情一开始时，试剂盒产能不足，药监部门加快了试剂盒的审批流程，很多厂家都加快研发，赶着上市，导致很多试剂盒的性能没有做好充足的测试和评估。
'At the beginning of the outbreak, there was not enough production capacity in the kits, 'Mr. Wang said.' The drug watchdog accelerated the approval process for the kits, and many manufacturers accelerated research and development and rushed to market, resulting in many kits not being adequately tested and evaluated.
一般而言，这样的试剂从研发到拿证，再进入临床应用，要2-3年时间。
In general, such reagents from research and development to take evidence, and then into clinical applications, it takes 2-3 years.
而且试剂盒的生产工艺，也会影响每一个批次产品的质量，这也涉及了不同批次检测效能的稳定性。
And the test kit production process, will also affect the quality of each batch of products, which also involves the stability of different batches of testing effectiveness.
试剂盒的开发确实有些仓促。
There was a rush to develop the kit.
一家指定生产这次检测试剂的公司工作人员告诉南方周末记者，公司从研发产品到获证，只用了不到20天的时间。
Southern Weekend reporter was told by a staff member of a company designated to produce the reagent that it took less than 20 days to develop the product and obtain the certificate.
刚开始那会儿，公司常常加班至凌晨，产线上的工人倒是一直没停，他们有四五十名可供调配的工人。
At first, the company often worked late into the morning, but the line workers never stopped. They had forty or fifty workers to deploy.
“当时所有公司都在争分夺秒，大家都会说自己是第一个生产的。
"All the companies were fighting for time and everyone would say they were the first to make it.
”这位工作人员说。
"said the clerk.
1月26日，国内4家企业的试剂盒，以破纪录的速度通过国家药监局应急审批通道批准，加速生产抵达各地疾控中心和医院。
On January 26, the kits of four Chinese enterprises were approved by the State Administration of Pharmacy's emergency approval channel at record speed, accelerating production to local disease control centers and hospitals.
据南方周末记者了解，此前，药监部门给每家企业都配备了2位审评员，提供24小时的答疑解惑有关审批的方方面面。
According to Southern Weekend reporter learned, before, medicine superintendency department to each enterprise is equipped with 2 reviewers, provide 24-hour answers to puzzle about all aspects of the approval.
如今春节假期结束，该公司的工作人员大多在年初三回岗，开足马力一天产能可达20万人份。
Now that the Spring Festival is over, most of the company's staff are back on duty three times a year, running at full capacity of 200,000 people a day.
不过，日产量根据每天医院和疾控中心的订单需求而定。
However, daily production depends on the daily orders of hospitals and CDC.
当南方周末记者询问试剂盒灵敏度时，对方回应：“我们只能表达自己的试剂盒是灵敏度和特异性很高的，具体数据几乎所有试剂生产公司都难以明确。
When Southern Weekend reporter asked about the sensitivity of the kit, the other side replied: "We can only express our own kit is sensitive and specific, the specific data almost all reagent manufacturers are difficult to identify.
”这位工作人员说，公司上下最近都很忙，临床数据还来不及收集。
The company has been busy lately and clinical data haven't been collected yet, the official said.
不同公司生产的试剂盒也会有所不同。
The kit produced by different companies will also vary.
“每个公司研发的检测病毒核酸位点不同，加上试剂的原料来源不同，生产的工艺不同，每个试剂盒的性能肯定是不一样的。
"Each company develops different sites for detecting viral nucleic acids, and each kit has a different performance, depending on the source of the reagent and the process.
”王锐智告诉南方周末记者。
Wang told Southern Weekend reporter.
国家传染病咨询专家委员会成员蒋荣猛提示，采样和试剂问题以外存在另一种可能。
Jiang Rong, a member of the National Advisory Expert Committee on Infectious Diseases, suggested that sampling and reagent problems were another possibility.
他认为，病毒的检测和病人发病的时间也有关系。
In his view, the virus detection and the timing of the patient's illness is also relevant.
通常而言，发病早期一两天的阳性程度没有五六天那么高。
In general, the first two days of a positive degree is not as high as five or six days.
“就是试剂没毛病、采样没毛病的情况下，发病时间也有影响，早期病毒量低，阳性就可能偏低。
"That is, the reagent is not defective, sampling is not defective, the onset of the time also has an impact, early viral load is low, positive may be low.
”蒋荣猛说，这种逻辑同样存在于胸部CT诊断，也有些病人核酸检测为阳性，但是肺部影像学没有表现，这样的病人同样需要隔离观察。
This logic also applies to chest CT diagnoses, Jiang said, noting that some patients tested positive for nucleic acid, but lung imaging did not show up.
4武汉“阴性”病人如何收治2月2日上午，武汉市第九医院通知吴姐和其他一些确诊阴性的病人转院。
Wuhan "negative" patients how to receive February 2 morning, Wuhan City Ninth Hospital informed Wu Jie and a number of other confirmed negative patients transferred to hospital.
吴姐称自己由于极度依赖医院的氧气供应，无法到大厅等待，因而没能转院。
Wu said she was too dependent on the hospital's oxygen supply to wait in the lobby to be transferred.
而后她自己联系了几家医院，都因种种原因未能成行。
She then contacted several hospitals herself, but for a variety of reasons was unable to travel.
最初和吴姐同在留观室的，有七八十个病人，据病友们的交流，阳性的只是少数，一共只有八九个。
Wu Jie and the original stay room, there are seventy patients, according to the exchanges of patients, only a few positive, a total of only eight or nine.
吴姐在四楼的留观室住了几天，病人大部分是老年人，大都在发烧，有很多已经出现了呼吸困难，正在吸氧。
Wu spent a few days in the fourth floor observation room. Most of the patients were elderly people with fever, and many of them were breathing difficulties and were taking oxygen.
还有一些接近呼吸衰竭的病人还在挣扎着大喊大叫。
Still others, close to respiratory failure, are struggling to shout.
几乎每天都有去世的人。
Almost every day there are people who die.
两相对比，确诊为阳性的儿子是幸运的。
By contrast, sons diagnosed as positive were lucky.
2月2日夜晚，医院给吴姐下了最后通牒，让她必须离开。
On the night of February 2, the hospital gave Wu an ultimatum to leave.
吴姐不走，现在连针都不给打了。
Sister Wu didn't go. Now she won't even get a stitch.
也是在2月2日，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部要求，全市各城区进行“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作。
Also in February 2, Wuhan City, the new crown pneumonia command requirements, the city's urban areas for "four categories of people" concentrated treatment and isolation.
这四类人员是：确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
The four categories are: confirmed patients, suspected patients, patients unable to exclude the possibility of infection febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
武汉已有多家酒店被改造为新冠肺炎隔离点，隔离期间，各区免费提供食宿、医学观察和治疗。
Wuhan has transformed several hotels into the New Crown Pneumonia Isolation Point, during which free accommodation, medical observation and treatment are provided in the districts.
不过，据南方周末记者多方了解，集中隔离的推行主体主要为基层社区，目前很多隔离酒店尚未落实，也有很多酒店不具备医疗条件。
However, according to Southern Weekend reporters understand that the implementation of centralized isolation mainly for the grass-roots community, many isolated hotels have not yet been implemented, many hotels do not have medical conditions.
很多核酸检测为阴性但病情仍在发展的病人，或是没有被安排到隔离点，或是自己不愿去隔离点。
Many patients who test negative for nucleic acids but whose condition is still developing are either not placed in isolation or do not wish to go there themselves.
林军和母亲一直居家隔离，还没有症状的妻子和女儿则住在客厅。
Lin Jun and his mother have been separated at home, and his wife and daughter, who are asymptomatic, live in the living room.
林军女儿告诉南方周末记者，她家所在的洪山区，集中隔离还没有大动静，也没有人通知他们去酒店住。
Lin Jun daughter told Southern Weekend reporter, her home in the Hongshan area, concentrated isolation has not moved, no one told them to stay in the hotel.
吴希也在拜托社区为大姨协调床位。
Wu Xi is also asking the community to coordinate beds for auntie.
吴希说，她已经把家里的情况和很多人讲过，在网络上到处求助，也有不少人联系她，但她还是没放弃任何一个机会，“所以我面对你，又再讲了一遍。
Wu said she had told many people about her family, sought help on the Internet and contacted her, but she didn't give up a chance, so I told you again.
”2月4日晚，吴希对南方周末记者说。
"Wu told Southern Weekend reporter on the night of February 4.
另外一位病人李先生，肺部感染已较为严重，但两次核酸检测均为阴性。
Another patient, Mr. Li, had a severe lung infection, but both tests were negative.
其所在社区想将他安排进酒店，但是他们拒绝了，因为李先生现在仍需治疗，每天都要在定点医院排上七八小时的队伍打针，而社区那边只把他们集中在一起，治疗问题无法解决。
His community wanted to put him in a hotel, but they refused because Mr. Lee still needed treatment and had to wait seven or eight hours a day for injections at the designated hospital, while the community kept them together and the treatment problem could not be solved.
在一线救治的谭伟叙述了一个悲伤的现实。
Tan Wei in the front line of treatment described a sad reality.
一些病人第一次、第二次核酸检测为阴性，但CT显示有病毒感染，过段时间又用CT检查，才发现病情加重。
Some patients tested negative for the first and second nucleic acid tests, but CT showed a virus infection, and after a period of time with CT examination, it was found to be aggravated.
再查核酸，等到确诊为阳性时，病人已是病情加重，无法挽救。
Reexamination of nucleic acids, until the diagnosis of positive, the patient is already aggravated, unable to save.
谭伟指出背后的原因——目前相关药物紧缺，病情不重的病人，没有上这类药；没确诊的病人到了隔离点，有些隔离点没有相关药物。
Tan pointed out that the reason behind the current shortage of related drugs, not serious patients, do not take such drugs; patients who have not been diagnosed to the isolation point, some isolation points do not have the relevant drugs.
2月4日，南方周末记者致电多位武汉社区网格员询问，那些肺部影像显示病毒感染但核酸检测为阴性的患者应该怎么办？有社区网格员说，他们也不知道这种情况要如何处理；也有人回复，武汉没有定点医院收这种情况的病人。
On February 4, Wuhan Southern Weekend reporter called a number of Wuhan community grid workers to ask, those lung images show virus infection but Nucleic acid test negative patients should do?
相比较当年的SARS治疗，根据《传染性非典型肺炎（SARS）诊疗方案（2004版）》，对于有SARS流行病学依据、相应临床表现和肺部X线影像改变，并能排除其他疾病诊断者，就可以作出SARS临床诊断。
In comparison with SARS treatment in that year, the SARS clinical diagnosis can be made in accordance with the SARS Diagnosis and Treatment Program (2004 Edition), based on the epidemiological basis of SARS, the corresponding clinical manifestations and changes in lung X-ray images, and the exclusion of other diagnoses of disease.
在临床诊断的基础上，检测出病原，则可作出确定诊断。
On the basis of clinical diagnosis, the pathogen can be detected and a definitive diagnosis can be made.
而在这份诊疗方案中，临床诊断和确定诊断被列为一个级别，另外两级分别是医学隔离观察者和疑似病例。
In this programme, clinical diagnosis and definitive diagnosis are classified at one level, the other two levels are medical isolation observers and suspected cases.
这样的分级，比如今的新型冠状病毒感染肺炎更加宽松，在临床上获得诊断的患者能得到和确诊患者相同级别的隔离治疗。
This classification is more lenient than today's coronavirus infection pneumonia, and clinically diagnosed patients receive the same level of isolation treatment as patients diagnosed.
谭伟也提及自己的临床治疗称，他们主要用CT进行初步诊断。
Tan also referred to his own clinical treatment, saying they used CT primarily for initial diagnosis.
“因为核酸检查时间太长了，检查结果得等一天，所以我们基本上都是用CT去判断。
"Because the nucleic acid test is too long and the results have to wait a day, we basically use CT to determine it.
比方说，我们第一次做了CT，对疑似病例症状比较轻的，我们建议他到隔离点去，重一点的我们就会去治疗。
For example, if we had a CT for the first time and the symptoms of a suspected case were mild, we would recommend that he go to the quarantine site and that we treat the heavier ones.
一般5天时间，我们会复查CT看看影像学改变。
In 5 days, we will review the CT to see if there is any change in imaging.
”5更谨慎的其他城市病人确诊已成为武汉疫区的沉重压力，各方都在寻求办法。
The more cautious diagnosis of other urban patients has become a heavy burden in the affected areas of Wuhan, and all sides are looking for ways.
张笑春后来也对医疗自媒体丁香园强调：“武汉作为疫区无法在现阶段完全依赖核酸检测去筛查病人，达到切断传染源的防控效果……我提的这个建议只适合咱们灾区，不适合普通、散发病例筛查。
"Wuhan, as an epidemic area, is unable to rely solely on nucleic acid testing to screen patients and achieve the prevention and control effect of cutting off the source of infection...
普通的散病筛查要做到鉴别诊断，而CT不能做到鉴别诊断。
In general, the differential diagnosis should be achieved in general screening, but CT cannot.
”在其他城市，诊断显得更加谨慎。
In other cities, the diagnosis is more cautious.
千里之外的上海，感染人数远不及武汉，一切尚显可控。
Thousands of miles away in Shanghai, the number of infected far less than Wuhan, everything can be controlled.
核酸检测仍由疾控机构完成，医院每天可以预约。
Nucleic acid testing is still done by the CDC and hospitals can make appointments every day.
一位上海三甲医院的呼吸科医生告诉南方周末记者，如今核酸检测控制严格，CT影像学有提示，才允许查。
A respiratory doctor at Shanghai Sanjia Hospital told Southern Weekend that nucleic acid testing is now under strict control and CT imaging is only allowed.
如果影像符合病毒性肺炎的特征，有流行病学史，而且查出白细胞、淋巴细胞偏低，“这种病人即便核酸检测第一次是阴性，也不能放掉，要住在隔离病房去观察，甚至用药，过几天再查一次核酸，有极个别的需要查更多次。
If the image meets the characteristics of viral pneumonia, has an epidemiological history, and detects low leukocytes and lymphocytes, "this patient, even if negative for the first time, cannot be released.
”浙江的温州、台州两座城市，逐渐成为疫情严重的地区。
The two cities of Wenzhou and Taizhou in Zhejiang have gradually become areas of serious epidemic disease.
前述台州一家定点医院收治的一对核酸检测均为阴性的夫妻，该医院不敢放他们走。
The Taizhou designated hospital, where a couple tested negative for a pair of nucleic acids, did not dare to let them go.
“阴性也不敢放他们走。
"Negative and afraid to let them go.
”前述医务科主任说。
"said the Director of Medical Services.
那位妻子天天闹，喊着“国家都确诊我们没病了，你们还把我关在这儿”，还在隔离病房里大骂护士。
The wife screams every day, "The state confirms we're not sick, and you shut me in here," and yells at the nurses in the isolation ward.
护士觉得委屈，请这位主任去劝说，他和病人聊了半小时，才安抚好她的情绪。
The nurse felt aggrieved and asked the director to persuade him. He talked to the patient for half an hour to calm her down.
这位主任告诉南方周末记者，虽然两次阴性检测结果达到排除条件，但其实临床上不敢排除。
The director told Southern Weekend reporter, although two negative test results reached the exclusion conditions, but in fact, clinical dare not exclude.
“我们一般引导他达到影像学上基本上没什么症状，或者淋巴细胞等指标恢复到正常后，再检测核酸，没问题就可以回家。
"We generally guide him to basically no symptoms in imaging, or lymphocytes and so on after normal, then detect nucleic acids, no problem can go home.
”多位医生提到，这个病情是不断发展的。
Doctors say the condition is developing.
上述主任分析了这位女病人的病情，她虽然核酸检测为阴性，但是有一部分病灶消退后，又有一部分新发病灶，不是所有病灶都一次性发出来。
The director analyzed the woman's condition. Although she tested negative for nucleic acid, some of the lesions subsided and some of the new lesions appeared.
他也感受到检测核酸的速度在加快。
He also felt the speed at which nucleic acids were being detected.
更早些时，核酸检测要由所在地级市的疾控中心执行。
Earlier, nucleic acid testing was performed by the local city's CDC.
随着检测病人增多，变为所在县级市的疾控中心来负责这项任务。
As the number of detection patients increased, the county-level city CDC to be responsible for this task.
而且，如今县级疾控中心一旦检测出阳性，就算确诊。
Moreover, now the county CDC once tested positive, even if the diagnosis.
面对阳性，医生则更为果断。
Doctors are more assertive when it comes to masculinity.
一位患者的肺部CT没有任何异常，只因从武汉回来，有轻微咳嗽，查了核酸却是阳性。
One patient did not have any lung CT abnormalities, only returned from Wuhan, have a slight cough, check nucleic acid is positive.
前述主任判断他为冠状病毒上呼吸道感染，尽管肺部CT无异常，也务必需要隔离。
The aforementioned director judged him to be coronavirus upper respiratory tract infection, although the lung CT is not abnormal, must also need isolation.
事实上，疫情防控的专家们在如何确诊上也存有争议。
In fact, experts in disease prevention and control are also debating how to diagnose the disease.
经南方周末记者采访了解，大部分专家还是认为有病理学的结果最好，但也有临床专家认为，这在武汉的实际操作中，困难比较大。
According to Southern Weekend reporter interviews, most experts still think pathology is the best results, but some clinical experts believe that this is in Wuhan practical operation, more difficult.
新冠病毒感染的复杂性，要求医生们综合更多的检验作出更仔细的判断。
The complexity of the new crown virus infection requires doctors to combine more tests to make more careful judgments.
蒋荣猛向南方周末记者指出影像诊断可以作为辅助途径：“做CT没表现的不一定能排除，有表现的又不一定是这个病，从临床诊断的角度来讲，影像学永远是一个辅助诊断的途径，还是要以病原学诊断为主。
Jiang Rong pointed out to Southern Weekend reporter that imaging diagnosis can be used as an auxiliary way: "do not necessarily exclude CT performance is not necessarily the disease, from the perspective of clinical diagnosis, imaging is always a way of auxiliary diagnosis, or should be based on etiological diagnosis.
”2月5日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，“疑似病例”标准有所放宽，无论有无流行病学史，只要符合“发热和/或呼吸道症状”和“发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少”这2条临床表现，便可考虑为疑似病例。
On February 5, the National Fitness and Health Commission released the "Trial Fifth Edition" of the Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia, and the "Suspected Cases" criteria were relaxed, with or without an epidemiological history.
更重要的是，它在“疑似病例”和“确诊病例”外新增“临床诊断病例”（限于湖北省内），即“疑似病例具备肺炎影像特征者”，这也意味着在湖北省内，CT影像结果可以作为“临床诊断病例”的判定依据。
More important, it adds "clinical diagnoses" (limited to Hubei province), in addition to "suspected cases" and "confirmed cases," that is, "suspected cases with characteristics of pneumonia images," which also means that CT images can be used as a basis for "clinical diagnosis cases" in Hubei Province.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁是“假阴性”新冠肺炎病人。
Who is a "false-negative" patient with pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "谁是“假阴性”新冠肺炎病人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
