韩国日增100例确诊总数翻番，总统府警卫卷入疫情。
South Korea doubled the total number of 100 confirmed cases, involving presidential guards.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
韩国青瓦台。
Qingwadai, Korea.
图片来源：维基百科记者 ：肖恩“ 韩国已累计确诊204新冠肺炎病例，是海外病例第二多的国家，仅次于邻国日本。
Source: Wikipedia Reporter: Sean, "South Korea has the second-highest number of confirmed cases of pneumonia overseas, after neighboring Japan.
”在教会和军队相继出现新型冠状病毒肺炎感染病例后，十几名来自韩国总统府青瓦台的警卫也因为曾与确诊患者在同一医院就诊，被要求自行隔离两周。
Dozens of guards from the Qingwadai presidential palace in South Korea were ordered to remain in isolation for two weeks after new cases of coronavirus pneumonia appeared in the church and the military.
与此同时，韩国2月21日报告确诊病例激增100人，病患总数翻倍，已达204人。
Meanwhile, South Korea reported a sharp increase of 100 confirmed cases on February 21, doubling the total number of patients to 204.
据韩国《中央日报》消息，韩国疾病管理本部20日通报称，一名居住在首尔的75岁男性成为韩国第56例新冠肺炎确诊患者。
A 75-year-old man living in Seoul became the nation's 56th confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia, the country's Central Daily reported Thursday.
调查显示，该患者曾于2月6日至17日之间先后五次前往景福宫站附近的光化门Hana耳鼻喉科医院就诊。
The patient visited the Hana otorhinolaryngology hospital near King's Palace Station five times between February 6 and 17.
该医院距离青瓦台只有1公里距离，青瓦台的警卫警员经常前往就医。
The hospital is only one kilometre away from Tsing Wa Tsai, and security officers from Qingwadai frequently visit the hospital.
第56例确诊患者的活动轨迹公开后，首尔地方警察厅针对前往该医院就医过的警察进行了调查统计，发现有20多名首尔厅下属的警员在这一期间到过该医院。
After the discovery of the 56th confirmed patient's trajectory, the Seoul Metropolitan Police Department conducted a survey of police officers who went to the hospital and found that more than 20 officers attached to Seoul Hall had visited the hospital during that period.
其中，十多人属于负责青瓦台内部警卫工作的101警卫团，负责在青瓦台外围警卫的202警卫团也有警员到这个医院就诊。
Of these, more than a dozen belonged to guard regiment 101, which is responsible for internal security at Qingwadai, and the 202 guard regiment, which is responsible for guarding the outer perimeter of Tsing Wadai, was visited by officers of the same hospital.
2月21日，韩国警方相关人士表示，已经要求可能与患者有过接触的警员从最后一次前往眼鼻喉科医院就诊的日期算起，在家休息14天。
On February 21, South Korean police sources said police officers who might have come into contact with patients had been asked to stay at home for 14 days from the date of their last visit to the Eye, Nose and Laryngology Hospital.
据悉，青瓦台的消防队成员中，也有人与第56例患者在同一天前往过这家医院。
It is reported that Qingwadai fire brigade members, and 56 cases of patients on the same day to the hospital.
青瓦台警卫团和总统警卫处最近刚进行完内部防疫工作。
The Qingwadai Guard Corps and the Presidential Guard Service have recently completed their internal immunization work.
对于是否有警员和发生集聚性感染的“新天地”教会相关人员进行接触的情况，警方表示并未对此展开调查，也未要求警员主动申报。
The police said they did not investigate the presence of police officers in contact with members of the Church of Xintiandi, where the infection was concentrated, and did not require police officers to file an active declaration.
青瓦台一直免费开放给预约游客进入参观，但有青瓦台幕僚21日接受韩联社采访时称，鉴于新冠肺炎疫情扩散的情况，青瓦台正在考虑暂停游客入内参观。
Qingwadai has been free of charge visitors to the tour, but the Qingwadai staff 21 told the Korean news agency, given the spread of the new crown pneumonia epidemic, Qingwadai is considering a suspension of visitors.
上一次青瓦台叫停外国游客参观是在2009年9月甲流肆虐时，直到六个月后的2010年3月才重新对外开放。
The last time Tsing Wadai stopped foreign visitors was when swine flu raged in September 2009, it didn't reopen until March 2010, six months later.
就在前一天（20日），韩国总统文在寅和夫人金正淑刚刚与获得奥斯卡最佳影片的电影《寄生虫》主创人员在青瓦台共进午餐。
Just the previous day, South Korean President Win Yin and his wife Kim Jong-shu had just had lunch with the creator of "Parasites," the Oscar-winning film.
导演奉俊昊和宋康昊、李善均、曹汝贞等演员，以及文化体育观光部长官朴良雨均出席。
Director FengJunHao and Song Kang Hao, Lee Sin-jin, Cao Ruzhen and other actors, as well as culture, sports and tourism Minister Guan Liangyu attended.
截至21日下午，韩国累计确诊204新冠肺炎病例，其中16人治愈出院，是海外确诊病例第二多的国家，仅次于邻国日本。
As of the afternoon of the 21st, cumulative total of 204 new cases of pneumonia in South Korea, 16 of them cured, is the second most confirmed cases overseas, after neighboring Japan.
韩国中央防疫对策本部本部长郑银敬21日在例行记者会上表示，有6至7名确诊患者病情相对较重，集中在庆尚北道清道郡大南医院。
Six to seven confirmed patients were in relatively serious condition, concentrated at Ching Nan Hospital in Qingdao, Gyeongshan Province, said at a regular press conference on Monday.
韩国第一例新冠肺炎死亡病例就出现在该医院。
The hospital is home to South Korea's first case of death from pneumonia.
此外在1月31日至2月2日，韩国第31例确诊患者曾在该医院参加“新天地”教主胞兄的葬礼。
In addition, between January 31 and February 2, the thirty-first confirmed patient in South Korea attended the funeral of his brother-in-law.
韩联社称，可能有不少“新天地”教徒参加了葬礼。
The funeral may have been attended by a number of New World believers, according to KFW.
截至21日下午4时，韩国再新增48例确诊病例，其中46例与新天地大邱教会有关，42个病例发生在大邱市。
As of 4: 00 pm on the 21st, there were 48 new confirmed cases in Korea, of which 46 were related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi and 42 in Daegu City.
而在此前确诊的156例病例中，也有98人与新天地大邱教会有关。
Of the 156 previously diagnosed cases, 98 were related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
这就是说，在目前确诊的全部204名患者中，有144人与教会有关。
This means that out of a total of 204 patients diagnosed so far, 144 are church-related.
韩国中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬表示，此次疫情是由单一感染导致的较大规模群体感染，最初感染源虽仍在调查当中，但可以肯定的是疫情正在以某种关联性扩散。
The epidemic is a relatively large-scale mass infection caused by a single infection, and although the original source of infection is still under investigation, it is certain that the epidemic is spreading in some way, said Zheng Yingjing, the minister for central epidemic prevention in South Korea.
郑银敬表示，已从新天地大邱教会获取了本月9日和16日与第31例患者一起进行礼拜的1001名教徒的名单，正在对这些人员采取居家隔离措施。
Zheng Yingjing said he had obtained a list of 1,001 people from Taegu Church in Xintiandi who attended services with 31 patients on the 9th and 16th of this month, and were being separated from their homes.
世界卫生组织（WHO）在回复《中央日报》的邮件中表示，大邱发生新冠病毒集体感染，可能属于“超级传播”事件。
In an e-mail to the China Daily newspaper, the World Health Organization said Daegu's mass infection with the New Crown virus could be a "super-epidemic."
韩国总统文在寅21日指示，要彻查参加新天地大邱教会礼拜和庆尚北道清道郡大南医院葬礼的人员。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao instructed a thorough investigation into the funeral of the Taegu Church in Xintiandi and the Ching Nan Hospital in Qinghai, Gyeongshan North Province.
国务总理丁世均报告了将大邱市和庆尚北道划为传染病特别管控区的防疫方案，并表示将取得教徒名单，在居家隔离状态下进行全数检测。
State Prime Minister Ding Se-kwong reported on a vaccination programme to designate Daegu city and Gyeongshan North Province as special control areas for infectious diseases and indicated that a list of believers would be obtained and all tests would be carried out in isolation at home.
文在寅指出，不要只坐等新天地教会提供名单，应更迅速采取对策。
Wen pointed out that instead of waiting for Xintiandi Church to provide a list, it should respond more quickly.
韩国中央应急处置本部本部长、保健福祉部长官朴凌厚21日在记者会上表示，防疫部门认为目前韩国国内新冠肺炎疫情尚未出现全境扩散蔓延的迹象，因此决定将预警级别维持第二级“警惕”，但实际工作中将按照最高的“严重”级别加以应对。
The Health and Welfare Minister Park Ling-ho, the minister of the Central Emergency Management Agency, told a news conference on Monday that authorities believe there are no signs of a nationwide spread of the disease, so they decided to maintain a second-tier "alert" level, but the response will be based on the highest "severe" level.
朴凌厚表示，虽然疫情进入社区传播的初期阶段，但由于是在特定群体内出现的集中感染，且感染途径明确，因此疫情尚未进入全境扩散的地步，仍可通过现有的防疫体系予以控制。
Park said that although the epidemic entered the early stages of community transmission, it could still be controlled through the existing epidemic prevention system, as concentrated infections occurred within specific groups and the route of infection was clear, so the epidemic had not spread throughout the country.
他指出，无基础病史的确诊病例多在2-3周内治愈。
He noted that most confirmed cases without a history of basic illness were cured within two to three weeks.
文在寅20日下午和中国国家主席习近平通电话，讨论两国合作应对新冠病毒疫情的方案。
Wen spoke by telephone with Chinese President Xi Jinping on the afternoon of the 20th to discuss the two countries' plans to cooperate in the fight against the new crown virus.
两国决定共享临床治疗经验，并强化防疫合作。
The two countries decided to share clinical treatment experiences and strengthen cooperation on epidemic prevention.
另外，两国首脑决定按原计划推动习近平主席今年上半年访韩。
Moreover, the two heads of state decided to press ahead with President Xi Jinping's visit to South Korea in the first half of this year.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国日增100例确诊总数翻番，总统府警卫卷入疫情。
South Korea doubled the total number of 100 confirmed cases, involving presidential guards.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国日增100例确诊总数翻番，总统府警卫卷入疫情";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "韩国已累计确诊204新冠肺炎病例，是海外病例第二多的国家，仅次于邻国日本。
var msg _ desc = & quot; South Korea has the second-highest cumulative total of 204 new cases of pneumonia overseas, second only to neighbouring Japan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
