华星光电回应“强制返工”风波：不会直接辞退员工，加强厂区防护。
Huaxing photoelectric response to the "forced rework" storm: will not directly dismiss employees, strengthen plant protection.
柯晓斌。
Koh Xiaobin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Unsplash记者：柯晓斌编辑：宋佳楠“ 恢复正常生产可能面临疫情风险，停工则意味着巨大损失。
Source: Unsplash reporter: Koh Xiaobin editor: Song Jiangnan "normal production may face the risk of epidemic, shutdown means huge losses.
”近日，因强制武汉员工返厂工作，武汉华星光电技术有限公司（下文简称“华星光电”）被推到了风口浪尖上。
Wuhan Huaxing Photovoltaic Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Huaxing Photovoltaic") was pushed to the top of the wind wave recently as a result of forcing Wuhan employees to return to work.
据第一财经报道，为了快速补充人手替换一线员工，武汉华星光电有一些部门已经开始采取“强制”返工措施，不复工按旷工处理，超过一定时期算自动离职。
Wuhan Huaxing Photovoltaic has started to take "compulsory" rework measures to replace front-line workers quickly, leaving the company after a certain period of absenteeism, according to Financial Times No. 1.
一位接近武汉华星光电的人士向界面新闻透露，2月14日起，华星光电一些部门已开始通过电话通知员工返回武汉工作，不返回可能面临辞退风险。
A person close to Wuhan Huaxing optoelectronic revealed to the Interface News that since Feb. 14, some departments of Huaxing Optoelectronics have started to notify employees by telephone that they could face dismissal if they do not return to Wuhan.
这引发了不少员工的担忧。
This has raised concerns among many employees.
作为此次疫情的中心城市，截止到2月21日上午11点，武汉新增确诊病例319人，累计确诊45346人。
As the epicenter of the epidemic, as of 11 a.m. on February 21, Wuhan, 319 new confirmed cases, a cumulative total of 45,346 people.
对于此次风波，华星光电母公司TCL集团相关人士向界面新闻表示：对暂时不能返岗员工不会直接辞退，对员工的考勤会根据湖北省人社局的相关政策处理。
Regarding this disturbance, the Huaxing optoelectronic parent company TCL Group related personage to the interface news: Will not directly dismiss the temporarily unable to return to work, the employee's attendance will be handled according to the Hubei Provincial Bureau of Social Affairs related policies.
同时，华星也启用了深圳，韩国，台湾，北京等多地办公形式，在保障员工健康的前提下，尽力保障公司处于良性运营。
At the same time, Huaxing has opened its offices in Shenzhen, Korea, Taiwan and Beijing to ensure the healthy operation of the company under the premise of protecting the health of its employees.
作为我国面板产业重镇，武汉汇聚了京东方、华星光电、深天马三大头部企业的五条产线。
As an important town in China's panel industry, Wuhan has gathered the five production lines of Beijing Oriental, Huaxing Optoelectronic and Deep Tianma.
新冠肺炎疫情发生之后，身处风暴中心的华星光电留守员工承受了巨大的压力。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Huaxing's photovoltaic left-behind workers at the center of the storm came under tremendous pressure.
按照惯例，每年春节期间华星光电都会有员工留在工厂值班，保证机器正常运转。
According to the usual practice, every Spring Festival will have staff on duty in the factory to ensure the normal operation of the machine.
但今年受疫情影响，留守员工已经连续超负荷工作多日。
But this year, affected by the epidemic, left-behind staff have been working for days on end.
“从年前的1月22日持续工作到现在，至少已经（连续）工作了20天，生理和心理都已达到极限。
"Since January 22, at least 20 days of continuous work, physical and mental, have been at their limits.
”一位华星光电内部员工表示，正常情况下春节值班的同事到初六就可以休假，但现在年前休假的同事无法返回武汉替班。
A Hua Xing photoelectric interior worker said staff on regular Spring Festival duty could take leave by the sixth day of junior high school, but colleagues who had been on holiday five years ago were unable to return to Wuhan to take over.
“现在的矛盾是，如果彻底停工，企业损失很大。
"The paradox here is that if you shut down completely, the business will lose a lot.
但不停工，员工的安全会有风险。
However, the safety of employees can be at risk if work does not stop.
”上述员工认为，适量减产是折中方案，即使2月份减产一半，对整个公司利润影响也不大。
The employees see a modest cut in production as a compromise, with even halving production in February having little impact on overall company profits.
2月12日，TCL集团董事长李东生曾发布微博称，由于半导体显示产业制程特殊，需不间断生产，每天都有员工上班。
On February 12, Li Dongsheng, chairman of TCL Group, issued a microblog saying that because the semiconductor display industry is a special process requiring uninterrupted production, employees work every day.
疫情压力下，深圳和武汉的TCL华星人依然在岗，保障工厂正常运转，特别是武汉华星工厂，由核心管理层带领7000员工坚守岗位。
Under the pressure of the epidemic, TCL Huaxing people in Shenzhen and Wuhan are still on duty, ensuring the normal operation of the factory, especially Wuhan Huaxing Factory, with 7,000 employees at the core of the management.
“因为武汉华星低温多晶硅显示屏占全球供应20%，停产对全球产业链造成冲击。
"Because Wuhan Huaxing low-temperature polysilicon display screen accounted for 20% of the global supply, production production on the global industrial chain impact.
且武汉已经封城，离开厂区风险可能更大。
Wuhan has been closed, leaving the plant may be more risky.
我们严格按照防控要求安排工作与生活，在保持工厂正常运转同时，厂区没有发生疫情。
We arrange work and life in strict accordance with the requirements of prevention and control. While keeping the factory running normally, there is no epidemic at the factory.
”李东生表示。
Mr Li said.
内部员工也证实，面板厂一但停工将给企业造成重大损失。
In-house staff also confirmed that a shutdown of the mill would cause significant losses to the enterprise.
芯片和面板最特殊的地方在于，很小的空间内要堆积大量的电路，所以电路需要是一层层的立体设计，每一层都精准地对到上一层。
Chips and panels are unique in that they store a large number of circuits in a small space, so the circuit needs to be a three-dimensional design, with each layer facing exactly the next layer.
如果把产线停下来，那可能有些做了两层，有些做了四五层、七八层，等到产线再开启，机台闲置就会造成精度失控、寿命受损，哪怕偏移了百分之零点几，生产出的也都是废品，损失巨大，而重新复工需要花费极大成本。
If the production line were to be stopped, some would have done two or more layers, some four or eight, and when the production line was opened, the machine would have lost control of its precision and lost its service life, even if only a fraction of a percentage point away.
武汉工厂对于华星光电而言，至关重要。
Wuhan factory for Huaxing optoelectronic, is crucial.
2月11日，TCL方面曾公开表示，武汉华星t3面板产线持续满产，并于1月份提前完成岁修，目前产能50K/月，物料和人工可满足当前生产需要，产成品出货通道正常。
On February 11, TCL said publicly that Wuhan Huaxing T3 panel production line continued full production, and January completed the year ahead of schedule, the current capacity of 50K / month, materials and labor can meet current production needs, the finished product shipping channel is normal.
2020年2月1日至2月10日，t3累计投片量与去年同期持平，预计2月将持续满产运营。
From 1 February to 10 February 2020, t3 cumulative filings remained at the same level as in the same period last year and are expected to continue operating at full capacity in February.
据界面新闻记者了解，华星光电武汉地区的产线以小尺寸为主，去年武汉的面板收入占整个集团收入的比例大约是40%左右。
According to the interface journalists, the production line in the photoelectric Wuhan area is mainly small, last year Wuhan panel income as a proportion of the total group income of about 40%.
一位内部高层担忧，如果武汉厂的人员未来两周依然无法按期回来，后段模组会出现一些订单无法交付的情况。
One high-level internal concern, if Wuhan factory personnel in the next two weeks still can not meet the deadline, the back of the module will have some orders can not be delivered.
在号召员工返岗的同事，华星光电依然要严防疫情。
In the call for staff back to work colleagues, Hua Xing photoelectricity still must guard against the epidemic.
一份被流传出来的华星光电内部通报显示，截至2月15日20:00，武汉华星累计发现发热、咳嗽等异常情况共263人，均已送医治疗，其中经医院诊断排除218人，厂区宿舍自行隔离45人，其中密切或间接接触发热人员隔离25人 。
As of 20: 00 on Feb. 15, Wuhan Huaxing had found a total of 263 abnormal conditions, including fever and cough, have been sent to medical treatment, 218 of them were diagnosed by the hospital, 45 were isolated by their own dormitory, and 25 of them were isolated by close or indirect contact with fever sufferers.
对此，华星光电方面解释称：之前相关媒体文章所附通报为公司每日向全体员工公开推送的疫情防控通报。
To this, Hua Xing photoelectric respect explains: The notice attached to previous relevant media article is the company daily for all staff to publicly push disease prevention and control notice.
其中涉及确诊病例系该员工休假外出期间感染，第2天发现当日就医隔离，曾与其接触的20人也即时隔离观察。
The confirmed cases involved infection during the employee's absence on leave, isolation on the day of discovery on the second day and immediate isolation of 20 persons who had been in contact with him.
相关隔离人员每日健康检测，且核酸检测均为阴性，暂无异常，确诊员工目前身体恢复良好。
Daily health test of relevant isolation personnel, and nucleic acid testing is negative, no abnormalities, confirmed that the staff is now healthy recovery.
华星光电方面明确表示，目前，武汉华星无公司内传染导致的病例出现。
Huaxing optoelectronic respect expresses clearly, at present, Wuhan Huaxing does not have the case that inside the company infects to appear.
另外，武汉华星也在继续加强防疫措施，将开展宿舍区域/办公区域/班车/公共设备设施全面消毒（2次/天）；全员发放口罩，并设置专门的隔离区 ；同时会在食宿行等方面满足留守员工的生活需求及健康要求。
In addition, Wuhan Huaxing is also continuing to strengthen epidemic prevention measures, will carry out quarters / office area / shuttle / public facilities full sterilization (2 times / day); full distribution of masks and the establishment of a dedicated isolation area; and meeting the living and health needs of the remaining staff, including accommodation and food facilities.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
华星光电回应“强制返工”风波：不会直接辞退员工，加强厂区防护。
Huaxing photoelectric response to the "forced rework" storm: will not directly dismiss employees, strengthen plant protection.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "华星光电回应“强制返工”风波：不会直接辞退员工，加强厂区防护";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Hua Xing's photoelectric response to & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "恢复正常生产可能面临疫情风险，停工则意味着巨大损失。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A return to normal production may be at risk of an epidemic, and a shutdown would mean significant losses.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
