北京一位哺乳期员工居家隔离期间复工，导致66人集中医学隔离。
A lactating worker in Beijing returned to work during home isolation, leading to the concentration of 66 people in medical isolation.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国实习记者：刘世龙“ 针对返工期间疫情防控问题，北京市疫情防控工作领导小组社区防控组办公室副主任、市委组织部副部长张强宣布，对七类人群给予特殊照顾。
Zhang Qiang, deputy director of the community prevention and control group of the Beijing Municipal Outbreak Prevention and Control Group, announced that special care will be given to seven groups of people.
”北京一位哺乳期员工居家隔离期间复工，导致公司同事等66人集中医学隔离。
A lactating worker in Beijing returned to work during home isolation, prompting 66 people, including company colleagues, to concentrate on medical isolation.
2020年2月21日，在北京市新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，北京市疾控中心副主任庞星火通报了这起案例。
On February 21, 2020, Pong Xinghua, deputy director of Beijing CDC, briefed the press conference on the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Beijing.
据悉，该病例因曾密切接触确诊病例被居家隔离。
The case is believed to have been quarantined in close contact with confirmed cases.
其在居家医院观察期间，于2月13日出现咽痛症状，但未曾报告。
He developed symptoms of pharyngeal pain on 13 February during his stay in the home hospital, but was not reported.
直到2月18日，症状加重后，才向社区工作人员报告，并于2月19日被确诊为新冠肺炎。
It was not until 18 February, when the symptoms became more severe, that they were reported to community workers and diagnosed with pneumonia on 19 February.
据庞星火介绍，因该病例于2月10日复工，疾控中心对其工作场所进行了排查，最后共划定66名密切接触者，全部进行集中医学隔离，另还有200多名一般接触者全部进行居家医学隔离。
As the case returned to work on February 10, the CDC conducted a workplace audit that resulted in the designation of 66 close contacts, all for intensive medical isolation, and more than 200 general contacts for home-based medical isolation, Pang said.
庞星火强调，各个企业在复工时一定要高度重视防控工作，应该注意对人数较多的工作团队及岗位进行管理，对职工上班路径、办公场所人员密度、分散办公的可行性等进行评估，针对可能的风险点疫情期间制定灵活的工作制度，实施弹性工作制度，采取错峰上下班、网络办公等多种形式及方案，以降低人员密集度。
Pang stressed that enterprises must attach great importance to the prevention and control work when returning to work, should pay attention to the management of a larger number of staff and posts, the staff path, office density, the feasibility of decentralized work, flexible working system for the possible risk points epidemic, the implementation of flexible work system, staggered peak work, network work and other forms and programmes to reduce staff intensity.
“我想通过这个案例告诉大家，对于疫情防控不要心存侥幸，不要把防控方案和预案停留在纸面上、文件中。
"I want to tell you through this case, for the prevention and control of the epidemic do not take the luck, do not control programmes and plans on paper, documents.
要像抓复工复产一样做好防控措施的落实，否则就会为此付出代价。
To do as well as to resume production control measures, or else will pay the price.
”庞星火说。
'she said.
针对网传北京大学人民医院出现集聚性感染的传闻，庞星火在新闻发布会上回应称，截止到目前，北京市疾控中心没有再收到北京大学人民医院关于新发确诊病例或者有样本检测呈阳性病例的报告，“目前，北京大学人民医院的门诊和发热门诊仍正常开放，没有关闭。
In response to rumors of a concentrated infection at Peking University's People's Hospital, Pang responded at a news conference that the Beijing CDC had so far received no reports of newly confirmed cases or positive samples from Peking University's People's Hospital.
”据北京市疾控中心日前通报，北京大学人民医院日前确诊三例新冠肺炎病例，目前安排患者5人及医护等人员17人共22人进行集中医学观察。
Beijing University's People's Hospital has confirmed three cases of new crown pneumonia, with five patients and 17 medical and other personnel under intensive medical observation, the Beijing CDC reported today.
北京大学人民医院还将白塔寺院区全部腾空，用于可能接触的肾透析患者142人进行集中医学观察。
The Peking University People's Hospital also emptied the White Pagoda monastery complex for intensive medical observation in 142 patients with possible renal dialysis.
此外，北京市疫情防控工作领导小组社区防控组办公室副主任、市委组织部副部长张强在新闻发布会上宣布，对七类人群给予特殊照顾。
Zhang Qiang, deputy director of the community prevention and control group in Beijing's leading group for epidemic prevention and control, announced at a press conference that special care would be given to seven groups of people.
这七类特殊人群分别为：一、对于过去14天内未在中华人民共和国境内停留且经由首都国际机场和北京大兴国际机场口岸入境的人员，免除居家观察14天的要求。
The seven special groups are as follows: (1) Persons who have not stopped within the territory of the People's Republic of China during the past 14 days and who have entered China through the Capital International Airport and Beijing Daxing International Airport are exempted from the 14-day observation requirement.
在入境时需填报健康申明卡，进行健康申报，接受体温检测，佩戴口罩，人员之间保持距离。
Upon arrival, complete a health declaration card, make a health declaration, take a temperature test, wear a mask, and keep a distance between people.
二、对于从中国境内其他地区（不包括湖北省）短期进（返）京（在京没有固定住所和职业，主要从事旅游、访问、商务、考察、过境等活动）的人员，须配合入住酒店的管理，进出酒店时要测体温，入住时要填报来京事由，登记在京联系人；有在京接待单位的，须执行接待单位有关疫情防控规定。
For short-term visitors (returnees) from other parts of China (excluding Hubei Province) who have no fixed accommodation or occupation in Beijing, mainly engaged in tourism, visits, business, research and transit activities, should check their temperature when entering or leaving the hotel.
如果有发热或身体不适的情况，要及时就医就诊并主动告知酒店和接待单位。
If you have fever or discomfort, seek medical attention in time and inform the hotel and reception units.
三、对于从中国境内其他地区（不包括湖北省）进（返）京复工复岗的人员，具备集中工作条件的，要进行封闭管理，在做好防护的前提下，可以边观察边工作；其他人员，还是要居家观察14天再上岗。
For those returning to work from other parts of China (excluding Hubei Province) with centralized working conditions, they shall be under closed management and may work while observing and working under the premise of good protection. Other personnel shall remain at home for another 14 days before they take up their duties.
四、居住在河北省廊坊市北三县等环京地区的在京工作人员，这些人员上下班往返属于日常通行，不作硬性要求，但是进出京要接受例行检查。
Workers in Beijing who live in the northern city of Langfang, Hebei Province, and other surrounding areas are not required to travel to and from work, but are routinely checked in and out of Beijing.
五、民航机组、铁路班组工作人员，这些人员频繁异地往返，属于刚性的岗位需求，返京时集中居住即可。
5, the civil aviation unit, the railroad crew, these personnel frequently move from place to place, belong to the rigid post demand, when returning to Beijing can live in a centralized way.
六、在京中央单位往返疫情高发地区的工作人员，出于单位管理和家庭安全的需要，这些人员返京后要按规定集中隔离办公、居住。
For reasons of unit management and family safety, such personnel shall be housed and housed in separate quarters in accordance with the regulations when returning to Beijing.
七、居家观察期间，有特殊需要的，如孕妇、患病等人员，可遵照医嘱外出医学检查。
During the period of observation at home, persons with special needs, such as pregnant women and sick persons, may go out for medical examination upon medical advice.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北京一位哺乳期员工居家隔离期间复工，导致66人集中医学隔离。
A lactating worker in Beijing returned to work during home isolation, leading to the concentration of 66 people in medical isolation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "北京一位哺乳期员工居家隔离期间复工，导致66人集中医学隔离";。
var msg _ title = & quot; A breast-feeding employee returned to work while at home, leading to a concentration of 66 at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "针对返工期间疫情防控问题，北京市疫情防控工作领导小组社区防控组办公室副主任、市委组织部副部长张强宣布，对七类人群给予特殊照顾。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Special care was given to seven categories of people, according to Var msg _ desc = & quot; Vice President of the Community Prevention and Control Group at the Beijing Municipal Outbreak Prevention and Control Team and Vice Premier Zhang Qiang.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
