纪念刘智明君。
In memory of Liu Zhijun.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 卫佳铭 温潇潇 薛莎莎 王选辉 黄霁洁 汤琪实习生 孟津津 郑旭刘智明带队参加第一届武汉马拉松医疗保障工作。
Peng Jia Ming Wen Xiaoxia Xue Sha Sha Wang Pai Laetitian Huang Laetitian Tang Qi intern Mengjin Jin Zheng Xu Liu Zhiming led the team to participate in the first Wuhan marathon medical care work.
（左六是刘智明） 本文图片受访者供图刘智明永远地离开了。
This picture shows Liu Zhiming leaving for good for all time.
妻子蔡利萍记得，2月3日晚上，丈夫躺在武昌医院重症病房里给她发来的信息。
His wife, Cai Liping, remembers her husband lying in the intensive care unit of Wuchang Hospital on the night of February 3.
那是刘智明被送进重症监护室的第10天，这位年过五旬身高一米八的健硕中年男人，已经虚弱到说不出话来。
That was the tenth day that Liu Zhiming was placed in intensive care unit. The stout middle-aged man over 50 was too weak to speak.
“昨晚折腾了一晚上，怎么搞氧合上不来，我以为我要死了，缺氧，烦躁，全身虚汗。
"I thought I was going to die of lack of oxygen, restlessness and sweating all over my body.
今早打了呼吸机，好多了。
I got a ventilator this morning. much better.
”丈夫发来这段话时，蔡利萍正在武汉市第三医院光谷院区重症病区忙碌着，因为她是这个病区的护士长。
"When her husband sent the message, Cai Liping was busy in the intensive care area of Guanggu courtyard No. 3 Hospital in Wuhan, where she was the head nurse.
第二天中午，蔡利萍结束了连续7小时的工作，赶忙掏出手机，查看丈夫是否回了消息。
The next day at noon, Cai Liping finished seven hours of work, hurriedly took out her mobile phone to see if her husband had returned the message.
进病区前，她接连拨出四个视频通话都没有接通。
Before entering the area, she dialed four consecutive video calls, none of which were connected.
“我来陪你吧。
"I will accompany you.
”视频终于接通了。
"The video was finally on.
屏幕那头，刘智明摇了摇头。
At the other end of the screen, Liu shook his head.
北京大学人民医院神经外科主任刘如恩和刘智明是相识20年的挚友。
Liu Ruan and Liu Zhiming, neurosurgical directors at Peking University's People's Hospital, are close friends for 20 years.
2月17日晚上9点半，得知刘智明生命垂危的消息，刘如恩赶忙给他电话，却始终无人接听。
February 17 9: 30 p.m., learned that Liu Zhiming's life is dying, Liu Ruan rushed to call him, but no one answered.
疫情爆发以来，两人曾在大年初二通过一个电话，电话中，刘智明声音沙哑，向好友倾诉院里床位紧缺，感到困难重重。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, the two men in the New Year's Day through a telephone call, Liu Zhiming voice hoarse voice, told friends about the shortage of beds in the hospital, difficulties.
没说几句，同在一线忙碌的刘如恩匆匆挂断了电话。
Did not say a few words, with the busy line Liu Ruan hung up the phone hurriedly.
他不知道，刘智明那时已确诊新冠肺炎，住进重症病房，在病倒之前，他曾持续低烧一周。
He did not know that Liu Zhiming had been diagnosed with pneumonia and was admitted to the intensive care unit, where he had had a low fever for a week before he fell ill.
2月18日，在用ECMO治疗17小时后，刘智明走了。
On February 18, Liu left after 17 hours of ECMO treatment.
电话里的一声“再见”成为永别。
A "good-bye" on the phone became a farewell.
后右二刘智明、前中是王伦长、前左一涂汉军、后左二罗杰最后时刻时间倒回1月21日下午四点，因受疫情影响，武昌医院被征用为武汉市第一批定点医院，准备接收发热病人。
Second-right Liu Zhiming, the former is long Wang Lun, the former left one Han Army, the second left Roger the last-minute time back January 21 4: 00 p.m., because of the epidemic situation, Wuchang Hospital was requisitioned as the first point hospitals in Wuhan, ready to receive febrile patients.
武昌医院副院长黄国付说，接到指令以后，留给他们进行发热门诊改造的时间只有两个小时，四点半召开职能部门的动员会，五点又要召集全体临床一级主任讨论，会议一个接着一个，刘智明都参与其中。
Huang Guofu, vice-president of Wuchang Hospital, said that after receiving the instructions, they were left with only two hours to carry out the renovation of the fever clinic.
武昌医院纪委书记洪毅告诉澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn），当时院内仍有499名住院病人，需要在三天内完成转移，因为院区需要临时改造，包括刘智明在内的院领导24小时待命，连夜开会，商量人员调配。
Wu Chang's disciplinary secretary, Hong Yi, told Pai Pai News (www.thepaper.cn) that there were still 499 hospitalized patients in the compound who needed to be moved within three days, as the courtyard required temporary renovation, and hospital leaders, including Liu Zhiming, were on 24-hour standby to discuss staff deployment.
刘智明的妻子蔡利萍今年47岁，是武汉市第三医院光谷院区重症病区护士长。
Liu Zhiming's wife, Cai Liping, 47, is the head nurse of Guang Gu Hospital, Wuhan's third hospital.
当时她就有些不放心，早在1月20日前后，丈夫便开始轻微发热、全身没劲。
At that time, she was a little uneasy, as early as around January 20, her husband began to have a slight fever, all over the body.
只不过当时，她并未意识到，出现在丈夫身上的反应就是新冠肺炎的症状。
At the time, however, she did not realize that her husband's reaction was symptomatic of new crown pneumonia.
洪毅透露，在“备战”前期，因对防控疫情的意识不够全面，刘智明曾戴佩着一级防护设备进入过ICU，当时里面躺着多位疑似新冠肺炎患者，感染或起于当时，“他是神外的专家，对每个病人的了解都需要深入一线”。
In the early days of "preparation for war," Liu entered the ICU wearing primary protective gear because of a lack of awareness of prevention and control. "He was an expert on the outside and needed a thorough understanding of each patient," he said.
1月22日上午六七点左右，蔡利萍又接到刘智明打来的电话，说医院很忙，就不回家了，马上要上班：“我当时感觉他呼吸有点急促，就跟他说他呼吸有点问题，不能轻视。
On January 22 around 6: 00 a.m., Cai Liping received a telephone call from Liu Zhiming, saying that the hospital was very busy, so he would not go home.
”也是这一天，刘智明还曾跟洪毅一起在单位食堂吃饭，曾说起自己的眼睛有点不适。
"On the same day, Liu Zhiming also had a meal with Hong Yi in the canteen of his unit.
洪毅以为他在开玩笑，还调侃说“你能吃能喝能跑，哪里都不像得病。
Hong Yi thought he was joking, and joked that "you can eat, drink and run, and nothing is like getting sick.
”当天，刘智明测过两次体温，一次是三十六度八，一次是三十七度。
"Liu Zhiming took two temperature tests, one of thirty-six degrees and one of thirty-seven degrees.
下午，他打电话告诉告诉妻子，自己走路气喘，疑似感染，已经在武昌医院接受治疗。
In the afternoon, he called his wife and told her that he had walked for breath and suspected infection and had been treated at Wuchang Hospital.
次日，刘智明确诊。
The next day, Liu Zhiming confirmed.
据湖北省卫健委通报，1月23日，武汉市新增确诊病例70例，累计确诊495例。
On January 23, more than 70 new cases were diagnosed in Wuhan, with 495 cases confirmed, Hubei Wei Jian reported.
1月24日，在本该属于团圆的除夕夜，刘智明因病情加重，被转入武昌医院重症监护室（ICU）。
On January 24, Liu Zhiming was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Wuchang Hospital on what was supposed to be a reunion New Year's Eve.
此时的蔡利萍也已经提前回到自己的岗位上，只能透过视频电话了解丈夫的病况。
At this point, Cai Liping has also returned to his post ahead of time, can only understand the husband's illness via video phone.
住院后，刘智明起初高热不退，伴随气喘；高热退去后又出现呼吸窘迫；一度氧饱和低到80，怎么都上不去。
After being hospitalized, Liu Zhiming initially had a high fever accompanied by wheezing. He developed respiratory distress after the fever subsided. Once oxygen was as low as 80, he could not get to it.
即便如此，得知自己病情恶化，刘智明仍叮嘱主诊医生，“如果万一，不要插管抢救”。
Even so, knowing that his condition had worsened, Liu said to his attending physician, "If anything, do not intubate."
2月4日下午，结束连续7小时的工作后，蔡利萍穿着深绿色的短袖洗手衣，俯在一堆纸箱子里清点库存的医疗装备。
On the afternoon of February 4, after seven hours of work, Cai Liping, dressed in a dark green, short-sleeved hand-washing suit, bent over a pile of paper boxes to count the medical equipment in stock.
早晨进病区前，她给躺在武昌医院重症病区的丈夫刘智明拨去四次视频通话，都没有接通。
Before entering the sick area in the morning, she dialed four video calls to her husband, Liu Zhiming, who was lying in the critically ill area of Wuchang Hospital.
前一晚，刘智明给蔡利萍发微信说，“昨晚折腾了一晚上，怎么搞氧合上不来，我以为我要死了，缺氧，烦躁，全身虚汗。
"I thought I was going to die from lack of oxygen, restlessness and sweating," Liu told Cai Liping the night before.
今早打了呼吸机，好多了！”视频电话接通后，蔡利萍对刘智明说：“我来陪你吧。
This morning played the ventilator, much better! "After the video telephone connected, Cai Liping said to Liu Zhiming:" Let me accompany you.
”屏幕那头，不能说话的刘智明，摇了摇头。
"At the other end of the screen, unable to speak, Liu Zhiming shook his head.
据长江日报报道，1月27日，武汉市第三医院光谷院区正式开始接收患者，仅一天半时间，所有病区全满，蔡利萍所在的重症病区压力巨大。
According to the Changjiang Daily, on January 27, Guanggu courtyard area of Wuhan Third Hospital officially opened to patients for only a day and a half.
一头是躺在ICU里的丈夫，一头是同样被新冠肺炎折磨的患者，有几次，她狠下心，想放下手里的工作去陪护，但都被刘智明拒绝了。
At one end was her husband lying in the ICU, and at the other was a patient suffering from the same pneumonia. On several occasions, she tried to leave her work to accompany her, but Liu Zhiming refused.
2月14日，刘智明从武昌医院转入同济医院中法新城院区后，开始接受插管治疗。
On February 14, Liu Zhiming was transferred from Wuchang Hospital to Tongji Hospital in the French new city courtyard, began to receive intubation treatment.
2月17日上午，医院给他上了ECMO（俗称“人工肺”）急救，一天后，他终因抢救无效离世。
On the morning of February 17, the hospital gave him ECMO, or "artificial lung," first aid. A day later, he died in vain.
80岁的十堰市太和医院名誉院长、原党委书记王伦长亦痛惜不已，赋诗一首，送别刘智明拿“绣花针”的阳光男孩得知刘智明殉职的消息后，十堰市急救中心书记、主任、研究员刘家敏抓起电话，给与他曾有过交集的人们逐一打去。
80-year-old Shiyan City Taihe Hospital honorary director, former party secretary Wang Lengchang also lamented, send a poem, see off the "embroidery needle" Liu Zhiming the sun boy learned of the death of Liu Zhimin, Xian Yan City Emergency Center secretary, director, researcher Liu Jiamin grabbed the phone and gave him a call to the people he had met.
一张瓜子儿脸，爱笑，一笑牙齿露出来，很阳光——刘家敏记忆中的刘智明像是永远活在22岁。
A melon seed face, love to laugh, smile teeth exposed, very sunshine - Liu Jiamin in memory of Liu Zhiming living forever 22 years old.
1991年7月，22岁的刘智明从原湖北医学院本科毕业，被分配到原郧阳地区人民医院外三病区从事神经外科临床工作。
In July 1991, Liu Zhiming, 22, graduated from the former Hubei Medical College with an undergraduate degree and was assigned to work as a neurosurgeon outside the Yunyang People's Hospital.
当时，刘家敏是医院的宣传科长和团委书记，还是共青团员的刘智明是科室的团干，经常参加青年活动，为人爽快，热情仗义。
At that time, Liu Jiamin was the propaganda section chief and committee secretary of the hospital, or Liu Zhiming, a member of the Communist Youth League.
“外科医生都有活力，工作上好学上进，大家都很喜欢他。
"Surgeons are energetic and academically motivated and everyone loves him.
”刘家敏告诉澎湃新闻，刘智明刚入行时，师从当时的院长、现湖北医药学院党委书记涂汉军。
"Liu told Peng Pai News that Liu Zhiming had just entered the profession from the then dean, now the secretary of the Hubei College of Medicine, Tu Han Army.
写病历，查房，做手术，刘智明样样细致。
Write medical records, house searches, surgery, Liu Zhiming meticulous everything.
脑外手术是个精细活，业内称为“绣花针手术”，需要胆大心细，“他可以做到”。
Extra-brain surgery is a delicate operation, the industry called "embroidery needle surgery," the need to be bold, "he can do."
九十年代初期，郧阳医院虽为湖北省第四大医院，但院内本科生不多，初来乍到的刘智明自然被“推”上了手术台。
Yunyang Hospital was the fourth largest hospital in Hubei Province in the early 1990s, but its undergraduate students were few.
1993年，刚拿手术刀不久的刘智明接手了一个棘手病例：三岁的小女孩从楼上跌落，落下严重的脑外伤，昏迷了60多天。
In 1993, shortly after taking a scalpel, Mr. Liu took over a thorny case: a three-year-old girl fell upstairs, sustained severe brain trauma and was unconscious for more than 60 days.
当时，女孩的爸爸几乎想要放弃，刘智明是管床医生，负责照顾，他鼓励孩子妈妈，曾有类似病情成功拯救的先例，缓解了她的焦虑。
At the time, the girl's father almost wanted to give up, and Liu Zhiming, a bed-keeper, encouraged his mother to save her from anxiety by setting a precedent for a similar case of successful rescue.
刘家敏记得，刘智明还会陪着孩子的妈妈一起唱歌，给昏迷中的孩子按摩。
Liu recalled that Liu Zhiming would also accompany the children's mother to sing together, to the unconscious children massage.
最终，奇迹发生。
In the end, miracles happen.
工作之余，刘智明喜欢跟着老师琢磨技术，他曾对刘家敏说，对于未来，自己没有太多的想法，就是当个好医生，把手术做好。
After work, Liu Zhiming likes to follow the teacher to ponder the technology, he once said to Liu Jiamin, for the future, he did not have much idea, is to be a good doctor, the operation done well.
刘智明的家在十堰农村，和很多农村出来的孩子一样，他心思单纯，手脚勤快。
Liu Zhiming's home in Shiyan village, and many rural children out of the same, he is simple-minded, hands and feet.
见到同事住的楼层高，他便主动帮忙搬送液化气罐子。
Seeing his co-workers live on a high floor, he offered to help carry the liquefied petroleum gas tank.
周末闲暇时，刘智明和年轻的同事们一起，相聚在位于青松坡的单身职工宿舍，唱歌、跳交谊舞、打篮球。
In his spare time on weekends, Liu Zhiming and his younger colleagues gathered at the single-worker dormitory in Qingsong slope to sing, dance and play basketball.
刘家敏是团委书记，组织医院同事自创“文化节”，其中一个环节是时装表演，身高一米八的刘智明穿着西服走来，“惊艳”全场。
Liu Jiamin, secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC), organized a "cultural festival" by his hospital colleagues.
“那时候大家都还年轻，食堂很便宜，工资待遇一般，但是人都很乐观，彼此没有隔阂。
"We were still young, the cafeteria was cheap, the salaries were mediocre, but people were optimistic and there was no gap between them.
”在没有手机和电脑的岁月里，听单位乐队的live是医生们的一大消遣。
In the years when there were no cell phones or computers, listening to the unit band Live was a great pastime for doctors.
刘智明总是早早来到，帮着乐队布置场地、搬乐器。
Liu Zhiming always comes early to help the band set the ground and move musical instruments.
1995年，刘智明离开十堰，只身前往武汉工作。
In 1995, Liu Zhiming left Shiyan to work alone in Wuhan.
临走时，刘家敏还对他说，机会挺好，“在武汉工作好啊，有机会再见。
Before leaving, Liu Jiamin also said to him that the opportunity is very good, "good work in Wuhan, the opportunity to see you again.
”不过，因工作忙碌，此后他们相见大多是在开会时，但刘智明仍会礼貌地问一句：“最近工作好吗？”疫情发生后，同在一线的刘家敏并不知道，刘智明已经感染。
However, because of their busy schedules, most of their meetings have taken place since then, but Mr Liu will politely ask, "How's things going recently?" Liu, who is also on the front line, doesn't know he is infected.
直到2月17日深夜，他从朋友处得知刘智明已经上了人工肺，心里就有了最坏的打算。
Late at night on February 17, he learned from his friends that Liu Zhiming had developed an artificial lung and had the worst plan in mind.
医者不能自医。
Medical men cannot cure themselves.
这一次，曾挽救过许多生命的刘智明，无法救回自己。
This time, Liu Zhiming, who had saved many lives, could not save himself.
“拼了命做事”无论是在郧阳医院，或是武汉三院，还是武昌医院，刘智明的拼劲几乎无人不知。
Whether in Yunyang Hospital, Wuhan Three Hospitals, or Wuchang Hospital, Liu Zhiming's strenuous efforts are hardly unknown.
39岁的武汉三院神经外科医生李维此前是刘智明生前任院长时带领过的医生之一，在他看来，武汉三院神经外科的进步，就是在刘智明关照下一手创办和推动的。
Li Wei, a 39-year-old neurosurgeon at Wuhan's three hospitals, was one of the doctors Liu had led during his lifetime as dean.
李维告诉澎湃新闻，早先神经外科在武汉三院并非独立科室，刘智明在任期间，主动联系北大人民医院的专家，在院内开展三叉神经痛和面肌痉挛的手术研究。
Li told Peng Pai News that neurosurgery in Wuhan is not an independent department, Liu Zhiming, while in office, took the initiative to contact experts at the Peking University People's Hospital, the hospital to carry out trigeminal neuralgia and facial spasm surgery.
李维口中的专家正是刘智明的好友刘如恩。
Li Wei mouth of the expert is Liu Zhiming's good friend Liu Ruun.
刘如恩在华中科技大学附属协和医院神经外科攻读博士期间，结识了同在协和进修的刘智明。
While studying for his PhD in Neurosurgery at the Concorde Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Liu became acquainted with Liu Zhiming, who was studying in Concorde.
刘如恩记得，当时已经参加工作多年的刘智明仍然坚持周末看书，学习业务，两人因此走近。
Liu recalled that Liu Zhiming, who had been working for many years, was still reading books and studying on weekends, so they approached.
他发现，刘智明极度敬业，不管值班与否，他都会半夜就起来跟着老师上台做手术。
He found that Liu Zhiming extremely dedicated, whether on duty or not, he will wake up in the middle of the night to follow the teacher to the stage for surgery.
博士毕业后，刘如恩被分配至北京工作，专攻功能神经外科，他们用显微血管减压治疗面肌痉挛和三叉神经痛。
After graduation, Liu Ruan was assigned to work in Beijing, specializing in functional neurosurgery, where they treated facial spasm and trigeminal neuralgia with microvascular decompression.
刘智明上任后，也想将这一疗法在武汉做起来。
When Liu Zhiming took office, he wanted to do the same in Wuhan.
为了请来北京的专家，刘智明多次亲自开车将当时接受中央组织部派遣、正在江西省人民医院担任副院长的刘如恩接到武汉。
In order to bring in experts from Beijing, Liu Zhiming personally drove Liu Ruan, who was then sent by the Central Organization Department and is serving as vice-dean of Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, to Wuhan.
刘如恩向澎湃新闻回忆，有一次周五，他院里的会议一直开到晚上六点多，刘智明中午开车赶到了南昌，一直等到他散会才接他去武汉，抵达时已是午夜。
Liu recalled to the roaring news that one Friday a meeting in his courtyard had been open until more than six in the evening. Liu Zhiming drove to Nanchang at noon and waited until he broke up before taking him to Wuhan, where it was midnight.
还有一个周日，刘如恩要从武汉赶到宜春开会，刘智明在出发当天的早晨还安排了五台手术，他坚持在做完手术后，亲自开车送刘如恩去宜春。
One Sunday, Liu Ruan had to travel from Wuhan to Yichun for a meeting. On the morning of his departure, Liu Zhiming arranged five surgeries.
为何不考虑将手术改期？刘如恩说，刘智明告诉他，因为病人离开武汉就报销不了，想让他们在家门口做手术，情愿牺牲自己的时间。
Why not consider rescheduling the surgery? Liu told him he was willing to sacrifice his time because patients could not afford to leave Wuhan and wanted them to operate on their doorstep.
在刘如恩看来，刘智明为解决武汉当地人能在本地享受到高水平的医疗服务，牺牲了太多自己的时间。
In Liu's view, Liu Zhiming sacrificed too much of his time to solve the problem of Wuhan local people enjoying high-quality medical services.
刘智明常常会跟好友念叨，在武汉，协和医院、同济医院、中南医院、人民医院的神经外科都很厉害，武汉三院要想发展并不容易。
Liu Zhiming often talks to his friends, in Wuhan, Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital, People's Hospital neurosurgery are very fierce, Wuhan three hospitals to develop is not easy.
接站、送站，早班、晚班，刘智明似乎从来不知疲倦。
Pick up station, send off station, morning shift, evening shift, Liu Zhiming seems to never tire.
“其实医生三班倒，起早并不容易，但我每次下来吃饭，他准早早在大厅等着，多少年一直都这样，他就是这样的一个人。
He is one of those men who always have to wait in the hall early every time I come down to dinner.
”刘如恩说。
"said Liu Run.
努力终有回报，武汉三院三叉神经痛和面肌痉挛的手术研究大获成功，并从此成为在湖北省内有特色的业务之一。
Efforts eventually paid off, Wuhan three hospital trigeminal neuralgia and facial spasm surgery has been a great success, and has since become one of the unique services in Hubei Province.
与此同时，神经外科在武汉三院被划归成为独立科室，刘智明担任科室主任。
Meanwhile, neurosurgery was classified as an independent department in Wuhan, with Liu Zhiming as director of the department.
神经外科科室成立后，刘智明还积极推动科室参加武汉市市级重点学科评审，评审期间他亲力亲为，在提升业务的基础上积极准备资料，并帮助神经外科通过了市级重点学科的评审。
After the establishment of the neurosurgery department, Liu Zhiming also actively promoted the participation of departments and offices in the evaluation of key disciplines at the municipal level in Wuhan City.
同在武汉三院工作的医生吴薇当时常到神经外科和刘智明及科室医生护士交流工作经验，每每感慨刘智明把神经外科“带得太好了”，“有的主任很在意手术做得是否漂亮，在管理上不用心，但刘智明在医疗和管理上，都很有能力”。
Wu Wei, a doctor with the three Wuhan hospitals, often went to neurosurgery and Liu Zhiming and the department doctors and nurses to exchange work experience, often lamented that Liu Zhiming neurosurgery "very good," "some directors care about the beautiful operation, management, but Liu Zhiming in medical and management, are very capable.
熟悉神经外科的人都知道，病人的术后恢复工作尤为重要。
Anyone familiar with neurosurgery knows that post-operative recovery is particularly important.
在其他科室都未配备营养师的情况下，刘智明招进一名专业的营养师协助术后护理。
Without a dietitian in any of the other departments, Liu recruited a professional dietitian to assist with postoperative care.
调任医务处主任后，刘智明也没有闲下来，他提出创立医院的120急救中心，吴薇在此时成了他的下属。
After the transfer to the director of medical services, Liu Zhiming also did not idle, he proposed to set up a hospital 120 emergency center, Wu Wei at this time became his subordinate.
吴薇说，创立之初，刘智明带着手下几人筹划，从“挖人”到找车，从购买物资到设立工作制度，每样都很上心。
Wu said that at the beginning, Liu Zhiming and several of his people planned everything from "poaching" to finding a car, from buying materials to setting up a work system.
就这样，120急救中心在武汉三院实现了从零到有，建成了三个急救站。
In this way, 120 emergency center in Wuhan three hospitals to achieve from zero to have completed the construction of three first-aid stations.
2013年，刘智明调任武昌医院副院长，完成日常工作之余，他又琢磨起创立营养科，招聘专业的营业人才，汪倩就是他招募来的第一位营养师。
In 2013, Liu Zhiming transferred to the position of Vice-President of Wuchang Hospital. In addition to his regular duties, he began to think about setting up a nutrition department to recruit professional salespeople.
入职第一天，汪倩在人力部门报道后，前往刘院长办公室等候商讨工作之事。
On his first day in office, Wang Qian went to President Liu's office to discuss his work after reporting from the manpower department.
刘智明一直忙着，中间回了趟办公室，对她说了句：“我书柜里很多书，你先看着，我忙完就回来”。
"Liu Zhiming was busy all the time, but he went back to his office and said to her," I have a lot of books in my bookcase.
刘智明忙了许久，回来时鞋上沾满了泥巴。
Liu Zhiming was busy for a long time. When he came back, his shoes were covered with mud.
汪倩当时心想，“院长开展工作还真是亲力亲为，很敬业。
"The dean is really hands-on and professional," Wang thought at the time.
”汪倩说，刘智明很看重创建营养科的工作，一直叮嘱他，有困难可以直接找他，他会尽全力解决。
Mr Wang said Mr Liu valued his job of creating a nutrition unit and had always told him he could approach him directly if he was in trouble and he would try his best to solve it.
忙活着医院的大小事宜，刘智明难得在回家的路上露出疲态。
Busy with the size of the hospital, Liu Zhiming rarely shows signs of fatigue on his way home.
武昌医院前职工史艳和刘智明家住得挺近，有时她开车回家，他会让她顺道载他一程。
Shi Yan, a former employee of Wuchang Hospital, lives close to Liu Zhiming's home. Sometimes she drives home and he asks her to give him a lift.
很多时候，刘智明一上车就睡着了，“都不敢和他说话，他很累的样子”。
Many times, Liu Zhiming as soon as the car fell asleep, "do not dare to speak to him, he is very tired appearance."
严谨与温和的两张面孔除学术和科研以外，刘智明将更多的心思花在了患者身上，即便是手术出院的患者，他也会经常打电话回去，追踪恢复情况。
In addition to academic and scientific research, Liu has focused more on patients, even those who have been discharged from surgery, who often call back to track their recovery.
李维向澎湃新闻回忆，在2008年，有一位病人在面肌痉挛术后没有得到改善，刘智明得知后，亲自前往监护室了解情况，并在监护室不间断地守护了病人整整一周。
Li told the roaring news that one patient did not improve after surgery for facial spasm in 2008, and that Liu went to the intensive care unit to find out about the situation and guarded the patient there for a whole week without interruption.
类似的例子刘如恩同样如数家珍。
A similar example is that of Liu Ruan.
一次，在刘智明给患者术后换药时发现伤口有些血肿。
Once, when Liu Zhiming changed medicine for the patient, he found some hematoma in the wound.
在刘如恩看来，换药的工作本不必主任亲自上阵，且术后刀口有微少的渗血也为正常现象，依据CT报告即可做出判断，是否需要处理。
In Liu Ruan's view, the change of medicine work need not be personally on the battle, and the knife edge after the small blood seepage is normal phenomenon, according to CT reports can be judged, whether need to deal with.
次日凌晨3点，刘如恩的电话忽然响了，是刘智明打来的。
The next morning at 3 a.m., Liu Ruan's telephone suddenly rang, it was Liu Zhiming.
原来，他不放心病人的出血，想托好友远程协助看下CT。
Originally, he did not trust the patient's bleeding, would like to entrust friends remote assistance to see the CT.
刘如恩的判断是，不需要特殊处理。
Liu Ruan's judgment is that no special treatment is required.
刘智明挂了电话，跑回病房观察，两个小时后，他又发来一条短信，说病人疼得厉害，血肿又大了一点。
Liu Zhiming hung up the phone, ran back to the ward to observe, two hours later, he sent another text message, said the patient pain, hematoma a little too big.
刘如恩依旧认为，不需要作处理。
Liu Ruan still thinks, do not need to handle.
又过了两个小时，已是早晨7点，刘智明再一次给刘如恩打去了电话，讲话的语气放松了许多，“病人的血肿没再变化，已经平稳”。
Two hours later, it was seven o'clock in the morning, Liu Zhiming called Liu Run again, his voice relaxed a lot, "the patient's hematoma has not changed, has stabilized."
又比如教新的住院医师刷手。
Like teaching new residents to brush their hands.
一次，一位刚分到刘智明科室的研究生没有按标准刷，直接进了手术室，刘智明紧接着就跟进去，对着研究生说“不行”，要求他重新刷。
Once, a graduate student who had just been assigned to Liu Zhiming's department did not follow the standard brush and went straight into the operating room.
如此严谨的风格，贯穿在他29年的执业生涯里。
Such a rigorous style, throughout his 29 years of practice.
“如果一个病人他完全相信你，靠的是医生的服务——无微不至的工作、你对他的耐心和非常精湛的技术，这点他已经实现了。
"If a patient trusts you completely, he relies on the services of a doctor - meticulous work, your patience with him, and great skill, which he has achieved.
”刘如恩如此评价。
"Liu said so.
严谨并不是刘智明在工作中的唯一面孔。
Strict is not Liu Zhiming in the work of the only face.
对待下属，他从不搭领导架子，尤其“关照”单位里的后生晚辈。
As for his subordinates, he never puts on airs of leadership, especially taking care of the offspring of his unit.
曾与其共事四年的武昌医院退休职工张莉向澎湃新闻回忆，因医院120急救中心工作表现不佳，刘智明曾“狠抓”该中心的工作。
Zhang Li, a retired staff member of Wuchang Hospital who had worked with him for four years, told Pai Pai News that Liu had "grabbed" the center's work because of poor performance at the 120 emergency medical centre.
兵马未动，粮草先行。
No movement. no movement. forerunner.
为改善中心工作人员的工作和居住环境，他派人修整了医院职工和“临时担架工”的住房，“要让他们有工作得有尊严”。
To improve the work and living environment for the center's staff, he sent staff to fix the homes of hospital staff and "stretcher workers" to "give them a decent job."
一番“狠抓”收到了成效，武昌医院急救中心的工作排名从全市后位一度跃居前列。
A "hard grasp" has been achieved, Wuchang Hospital Emergency Center from the work of the rank of the city at one time at the forefront.
回忆共事的细节，张莉数度哽咽。
Remembering the details of her work, Zhang Li choked several times.
刘智明常常因忙工作忘记吃饭，有时，几位同事约好一起吃饭，等其他人都吃完了，唯独他还没有忙完。
Liu Zhiming often forgets to eat because of his busy work. Sometimes, several colleagues make an appointment to have dinner together.
可就算再忙，在很多事情上，他依旧坚持亲力亲为。
But even if he is busy, in many things, he still insists on doing it himself.
张莉回忆，工会每次组织看望离退休职工，他总是叮嘱说“一定要安排在我有空的时候，我要亲自去看望老同志”。
Every time the union visits retired workers, Zhang recalls, he always advises, "Make sure I visit my old comrades in person when I am free."
武昌医院的护士小西是去年才入职的，她对着手机屏幕上的新闻消息，忍不住哭了。
Xiaoxi, a nurse at Wuchang Hospital, entered the hospital last year, crying over news items on her mobile phone screen.
办入职手续时，刘智明为她签字，第一印象就是，这个院长很平易近人。
When entering the office, Liu Zhiming signed for her, the first impression is that the dean is very approachable.
他问起小西老家是哪里的，嘱咐她加油好好干。
He asked where Xiaoxi was from, and told her to work hard.
和小西同年入职的还有王晶。
And Xiaoxi the same year also took office Wang Jing.
2018年11月，刘智明亲自来到黑龙江齐齐哈尔医学院招人，王晶是他亲自选中的精神心理科医护之一。
In November 2018, Liu himself arrived at the Qiqihar Medical College in Heilongjiang to recruit, and Wang Jing is one of the psychiatrists of his choice.
得知几个女娃背井离乡生活不易，几人所在的南湖院区又没有职工宿舍，刘智明便在医院里为她们争取到两间房当宿舍，作为特殊的关照，“让我们有了家的感觉”。
It is not easy to learn that several girls live in exile, several people in the South Lake District and there are no staff dormitory, Liu Zhiming in the hospital for them to win a two-room dormitory, as a special care, "let us have a sense of home.
王晶告诉澎湃新闻，他最后一次见到刘智明是在职工食堂吃饭，问完好，刘智明还拉着她跟其他领导介绍，“这就是我从东北招过来的美女！”说罢，还关心她适不适应武汉的天气。
Wang told Peng Pai News that the last time he saw Liu Zhiming eating in the staff canteen, asked intact, Liu Zhiming and other leaders to introduce, "This is the beautiful woman I recruited from the Northeast!"
除了生活上的关照，刘智明更愿意将实践的机会留些给手下，他在一旁手把手地教。
In addition to life care, Liu Zhiming is more willing to practice the opportunity to save some to his staff, he hand in hand to teach.
李维说，在他的带领下，同事们的业务能力都提升得很快，“他把自己所学都很毫无保留地教给我们了，即使是在他调去武昌医院以后，科室的同事依旧非常挂念”。
"Under his leadership, colleagues have improved their professional skills very quickly," he said. "He taught us everything he learned without reservation, and even after he was transferred to Wuchang Hospital, his colleagues in the department were still very worried."
几乎所有与刘智明相熟的人都不愿意相信，那个凡事亲力亲为的神外专家、没有领导架子的刘院长永远地走了。
Almost everyone who knew Liu would not believe that Liu, a self-serving ecclesiastical expert and unassuming leader, had gone forever.
据红星新闻报道，武昌医院重症医学科1月26日被支援医疗队接管前，医护人员已连续工作近30天没有休息，被接管时，武昌医院共收治了发热病人469人，其中重症患者30人。
Before being taken over by the support medical team on January 26, staff had been working without rest for nearly 30 days. When the hospital was taken over, 469 patients with fever were admitted to Wuchang Hospital, 30 of whom were critically ill.
武昌医院在防疫期间也多次发布公告，向社会请求物资援助。
Wuchang Hospital issued many announcements during the epidemic prevention period, to the community to request material assistance.
李维认为，患者转院时，刘智明要亲自去安抚病人的情绪，可能是在这个过程中传染的。
When the patient was transferred to hospital, Liu Zhiming himself had to soothe the patient's feelings, he said, possibly infecting the patient in the process.
疫情爆发后，远在北京的刘如恩只跟刘智明通过一个电话，那是大年初二，刘智明在电话里用沙哑的声音向好友倾诉工作强度大、院里床位紧缺，感到困难重重，“身上担子很重”。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, Liu Ruan in Beijing and only with Liu Zhiming through a telephone, it is the second year of the Lunar New Year, Liu Zhiming in the phone to friends with a hoarse voice to talk about the intensity of work, the hospital bed shortage, difficulties, "a heavy burden.
没说几句，听筒那头吵杂的环境音盖过了刘智明的嗓音，刘如恩知道，他一定是转头忙碌去了，便匆匆挂断了电话。
Without saying anything, Liu Zhiming's voice was drowned out by the noisy environment of the receiver. Liu knew he must have turned busy and hung up the phone.
他没有告诉刘如恩，那时自己已住在重症病房里。
He did not tell Liu that he was in the intensive care unit at the time.
刘如恩怎么也不会想到，电话里的一声“再见”竟会成为永别。
Liu Ruan would never have thought that a "goodbye" on the phone would be a farewell.
2月17日晚上9点半，他看到了挚友生命垂危的消息，立即打电话联系，却始终没人接听。
At 9: 30 p.m. on February 17, he saw his close friend was in critical condition and immediately called, but no one answered.
2月18日上午，在上了人工肺治疗17小时后，刘智明永远地离开了，他也成为官方公布的第8位在抗疫前线殉职的医护人员。
On the morning of February 18, after 17 hours of artificial lung treatment, Liu left for good, becoming the eighth official medical worker to die on the front line of the epidemic.
而在早前的2月13日，国家卫健委曾报告，医务人员确诊感染新冠肺炎1716例。
Earlier, February 13, the National Health Commission reported that medical staff diagnosed 1716 cases of New Crown Pneumonia.
得知爱徒殉职的消息，涂汉军再也控制不住自己的情感，泪眼朦胧中，他似乎又看到了刘智明鲜活的面容，仿佛未离去。
Knowing the news that Aiguo died on duty, Tu Han Army can no longer control his emotions, tears hazy, he seems to see Liu Zhiming fresh face, as if not left.
作为刘智明的专业启蒙老师，涂汉军曾手把手传授技艺，在长期相处中，两人亦师亦友。
As Liu Zhiming's professional enlightenment teachers, Tu Han Army had hand-taught skills, in a long-term relationship, the two also learn from each other.
走上领导岗位后，刘智明也常常和师父讨论医院管理的问题。
When he took up his leading position, Liu Zhiming often discussed hospital management with Master.
“作为一名优秀的医生和医院管理者，面对突如其来的汹涌疫情，他一如既往以身作则，投身战斗，成为这次抗疫战斗中牺牲的第一个医院院长。
"As a good doctor and hospital administrator, he was the first hospital director to die in the battle against this epidemic by leading by example in the face of an unexpected surge.
” 涂汉军在悼文末尾写道，刘智明的大女儿正就读于湖北医药学院临床医学专业，他希望在不久的将来把她培养成像她父亲一样的好医生。
At the end of the eulogy, Mr. Tang wrote that Liu's eldest daughter is studying clinical medicine at the Hubei Medical Institute and hopes to train her to become as good a doctor as her father in the near future.
得知昔日下属离世，80岁的十堰市太和医院名誉院长、原党委书记王伦长亦痛惜不已，赋诗一首，送别刘智明：“冠状病毒虐人间，华夏灭疫战犹酣。
The 80-year-old Shiyan City Taihe Hospital, the former Secretary of the party committee, Wang Lengchang lamented the death of his subordinate. He also wrote a poem saying farewell to Liu Zhiming: "The coronavirus malaria, the Chinese plague battle rages.
惊闻智明歿沙㘯，老泪纵横如涌泉。
Shocked Zhi Ming Chao Chao, old tears as surging spring.
战疫仍处胶着态，人自为战不松弦。
The plague is still stuck, let the people keep themselves to themselves.
瘟神难挡医魂路，怀揣英烈再向前！”（文中张莉、吴微、小西、王晶、汪倩、史艳、李维为化名）本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Misery is difficult to block the soul road, with Huai Yingli forward! "(In the article Zhang Li, Wu Wei, Xiaoxi, Wang Jing, Wang Qian, Shi Yan, Li Wei as an alias) this issue editor chang Chen recommended.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
纪念刘智明君。
In memory of Liu Zhijun.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "纪念刘智明君";。
var msg _ title = & quot; memorializing Liu Zhiming;;;
var msg_desc = "2月18日，在用ECMO治疗17小时后，刘智明走了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Liu left on 18 February, 17 hours after having been treated with ECMO.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
