我在华南海鲜市场两公里外，做排查。
I'm two kilometers away from the south China seafood market.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 廖艳 实习生 赵雨萌 发自武汉这３天开展集中拉网式社区排查，让董守芝的手机响的更频繁了，一个电话接一个电话，传来居民的求助、同事的反馈以及领导下发任务的通知。
Liao Yu-yan, an intern with Liao Yan, started a three-day intensive community search and made Dong Shouzhi's cell phone ring more frequently. A phone call came from residents seeking help, feedback from colleagues and notification of their assignments.
2月16日，武汉市部署开展为期3天的集中拉网式大排查，落实五个“百分之百”举措，即“确诊患者百分之百应收尽收、疑似患者百分之百核酸检测、发热病人百分之百进行检测、密切接触者百分之百隔离、小区村庄百分之百实行24小时封闭管理。
On February 16, Wuhan city launched a three-day intensive screening exercise to implement five "100 percent" initiatives, namely, "100 percent collection of confirmed patients, 100 percent nucleic acid testing of suspected patients, 100 percent testing of fever patients, 100 percent isolation of close contacts, and 100 percent 24-hour closure of small villages."
”60岁的董守芝是江汉区唐家墩街西桥社区书记。
Dong Shouzhi, 60, is the community secretary of Xiqiao, Tangjia Tun Street in JiangHan District.
西桥社区距疑似疫源区华南海鲜市场仅2公里左右，受疫情影响较为严重。
Xiqiao community from the suspected source area of South China seafood market only about 2 km, affected by the epidemic is more serious.
自疫情工作开展以来，她一直负责组织社区消毒、安排物资发放等林林总总的工作。
Since the beginning of the epidemic, she has been responsible for organizing community disinfection, distribution of supplies and other extensive work.
董守芝说，社区工作压力大，工作人员恨不得一个人变成几十个人去工作，她的电话基本都是保持24小时在线。
'Community work is stressful, and workers want to be dozens of people working alone, 'Dong said.' Her calls are basically 24-hour online.
忙碌中，她也为遇到过的一些形式主义的工作烦恼，希望这样的工作可以少一点。
In her busy life, she also worried about some of the formalistic work encountered, hope that such work can be a little less.
2月19日，3天期限已至，董守芝和同事们在抓紧工作，做最后的“冲刺”。
February 19, the three-day deadline has come, Dong Shouzhi and his colleagues are working hard to make a final "sprint."
19日14时许，董守芝和副书记王娟送一户家人的三名密切接触者前往密接隔离点。
Around 1400 hours on the 19th, Dong Shuzhi and deputy secretary Wang Juan sent three close family members to the close separation point.
“通过三天的排查，我们终于可以将五类人群‘清零’，我感到很欣慰。
"After three days of searching, we were finally able to" clean up "five categories of people, and I was very pleased.
”董守芝说。
'said Dong Shouzhi.
以下是董守芝口述听到肺炎的消息，有点紧张江汉区唐家墩街西桥社区是一个1.6万余人口的“混合型社区”，老年人居多。
The following is Dong Shu-zhi oral heard the news of pneumonia, a bit nervous Jiang Han District Tang Jiatun Street Xiqiao community is a population of more than 16,000 "mixed community," the majority of the elderly.
社区距疑似疫源区华南海鲜市场仅2公里左右，受疫情影响较为严重。
The community is only about 2 km from the south China seafood market in the suspected epidemic area and is seriously affected by the epidemic.
社区工作人员加上我共有25名，再加上后来下沉到社区的基层干部50多名，需要负责整个社区7351户，包括11个老旧小区，6个物业公司以及3个自治物业服务区域的工作。
Together with 25 community workers and more than 50 grass-roots cadres who later sank into the community, the community was responsible for 7,351 households, including 11 old neighbourhoods, 6 property companies and 3 self-governing property service areas.
2019年年底，我们听说了有关肺炎的消息。
We heard about pneumonia at the end of 2019.
2020年1月1日，华南海鲜市场被休市，那时，我们开始有点紧张，毕竟官方说疫情发源于华南海鲜市场，距离我们很近，所以我们决定进行大扫除，清楼道、清屋顶、清死角。
On January 1, 2020, when the South China seafood market was closed, we began to get a little nervous. After all, the authorities said the outbreak originated in the South China seafood market, close to us, so we decided to carry out a thorough cleaning, clearing corridors, clearing roofs, clearing dead corners.
我们用小壶装着84消毒液对整个社区基本进行消毒，做消杀、保洁、垃圾的清理清运等工作。
We basically disinfect the whole community with a small pot of disinfectant 84, do the disinfection, cleaning, garbage removal and so on.
而且当时知道华南海鲜市场是传染源的时候，居民的反应不是很强烈。
And then it was known that the South China seafood market was the source of infection, the response of the residents was not very strong.
经过排查，我们社区没有在华南海鲜市场上班的人。
After screening, there are no people in our community who work in the South China Seafood Market.
但后来我们有居民去武汉协和医院看病，后来医生询问得知他是某酒店工作，需要专门到华南海鲜市场进行采购食材。
But later we had residents go to Wuhan Concorde Hospital to see a doctor, and then the doctor asked that he was a hotel work, need to go to the South China seafood market to purchase raw materials.
1月23日武汉“封城令”开始之后，我们社区工作人员都开始紧张起来，大家也都全力以赴处于工作状态，用广播24小时播报疫情、通告。
Wuhan on January 23 after the "closure order" began, our community workers began to tense up, everyone is also fully in the state of work, broadcasting 24-hour broadcast of the epidemic, notices.
看到“封城令”后，我意识到事态的严重性，首先我们想的不是自己，这不是为了彰显自己有多么高尚，当时是想到这场疫情对武汉是场很大的考验，对经济可能也是一次很大的冲击。
After seeing the "closure order," I realized the seriousness of the situation, first of all we are not thinking about ourselves, this is not to show how noble they are, think of the epidemic for Wuhan is a great test, and may be a great impact on the economy.
董守芝（中）正与小区工作人员安排密接者前往隔离点工作社区有了确诊患者一开始我们没有防护服，甚至连口罩都没有，我们也不敢上门排查。
Dong Shu-zhi (middle) is arranging for a group of community workers to travel to the quarantined area to work with a confirmed patient We didn't have protective clothing at first, not even a mask, and we didn't dare to go to the door.
我们通过微信、打电话等方式，让网格支部、物业公司发现疑似就上报发热病人。
We through the micro-letter, telephone and other means, so that the grid branch, property companies to report suspected febrile patients.
对于被上报的居民，我们就锁定分类，该送医院送医院，该送隔离点就送隔离点。
For the reported residents, we lock down the classification, the hospital to be sent to the hospital, the isolation point to be sent to the isolation point.
一旦遇到发热病人，我们就会让他们到社区卫生服务中心做检查，分诊到发热门诊做CT和核酸检测。
In the event of a febrile patient, we will send them to the community health service center for tests, referrals to a fever clinic for CT and nucleic acid testing.
“封城”后，居民对于疫情的反应也不是很强烈，后来也是因为身边的邻居被确诊新冠肺炎患者，他们才开始紧张起来。
The response to the outbreak was mild after the siege, and it was only after neighbours were diagnosed with pneumonia that they began to get nervous.
1月25日，我们社区发现了第一例确诊新冠肺炎病例。
On 25 January, our community discovered the first confirmed case of new crown pneumonia.
当时一位在江汉区某菜市场门口修鞋匠的老婆婆打电话说，她老公被确诊新冠肺炎，想要去住院，但是“一床难求”，他们想要社区帮助。
An elderly woman mending shoes at the door of a vegetable market in Jianghan said her husband was diagnosed with pneumonia and wanted to be hospitalized, but "one bed is difficult" and they wanted help from the community.
后来经过协调，这名确诊患者住进医院。
Subsequently, after coordination, the confirmed patient was admitted to hospital.
看到第一个病例出现后，我想可能马上就有第二个了，我们也不知道还会有多少人是疑似新冠肺炎患者。
Seeing the first case, I think there may soon be a second one, and we don't know how many more people are suspected to have pneumonia.
比如，前几天电话联系一些居民，情况还好好的，但是昨天打电话就说出现疑似症状了，还有些居民根本没有出小区也被感染了，我们根本控制不住。
For example, we contacted some residents by phone the other day and it was all right, but yesterday we called to say that we had suspected symptoms.
1月25日之后的四天时间里，每天被感染的人很多，社区几乎每天会增加十几个疑似新冠肺炎患者。
In the four days following 25 January, a large number of people became infected every day, and the community added almost a dozen suspected new cases of pneumonia each day.
直到2月10日之后，数量上升的情况才有所好转。
It was not until 10 February that the increase in numbers improved.
截至2月20日，我们社区共有确诊新冠肺炎患者53名，其中10余名重症患者，疑似新冠肺炎患者93名，11名居民因新冠肺炎死亡。
As at February 20, our community had confirmed 53 cases of pneumonia, of which more than 10 were critically ill, 93 were suspected to be newly infected with pneumonia and 11 had died of pneumonia.
居民的事无小事我们每天的工作太多了，真的快崩溃了。
There's nothing trivial about the residents We work too much every day, and it really is going to break down.
2月10日，武汉市在全市范围内所有住宅小区实行封闭管理。
On February 10, Wuhan implemented closed management in all residential districts throughout the city.
对新冠肺炎确诊患者或疑似患者所在楼栋单元必须严格进行封控管理。
The building units of patients or suspected patients with new crown pneumonia must be strictly controlled.
社区工作压力很大的。
Community work is stressful.
除了摸排的压力，更多的是如何保障居民生活的压力。
In addition to the pressure to map, more is how to safeguard the pressure of the residents' lives.
社区的工作人员恨不得一个人变成几十个人去工作，我的电话基本都是保持24小时在线。
Community workers want to turn into dozens of people to work, my phone is basically to maintain 24-hour online.
由于实行住宅小区“一门式”管理。
Due to the implementation of residential area "one-way" management.
每天早上8点30分至下午5点30分采取分时段分楼栋错时外出管理，每户家庭每3天可指派1名家庭成员外出采购生活物资1次，其余人员除生病就医、疫情防控工作和保障公共事业运行需要外，一律不得进出。
Every day between 8: 30 am and 5: 30 pm, each household can assign a family member to purchase household goods once every three days. The rest of them are not allowed to go in or out except for medical treatment, disease prevention and control, and public utility operation.
下午5点30分至次日早上8点30分采取全封闭管理，所有人员一律不得进出,紧急情况拨打求助电话，经许可后，可临时登记进出。
Between 5.30 p.m. and 8.30 a.m. the following day, all personnel will be denied access, emergency calls will be made and access will be temporarily registered upon authorization.
对于行动不便的、独居的高龄老人和残疾人，我们安排了工作人员给他们送菜，三天送一回。
For elderly and disabled people with reduced mobility who live alone, we have arranged for staff to deliver meals to them once every three days.
其他居民则自发组织的“团购”方式进行解决。
Other residents spontaneously organized "group purchase" to solve the problem.
最初，很多社区工作者有些恐惧情绪。
At first, many community workers were a bit fearful.
毕竟家里都有孩子和老人。
After all, there are children and old people.
2月19日，我们有一个社区书记打电话跟我说，“我们能不能把小区那个路口封一下，有些居民出去买菜实在没有办法阻止。
On February 19th, one of our community secretaries called me and said, "Can we seal up that junction in the neighborhood? Some residents are out shopping and there's nothing they can do to stop it.
”她一边打电话一边哭，我听到心里很难受。
"I heard her crying as she talked on the phone, and it hurt.
我一天最多可接上百个电话，有时候我回家还没进门，就不断有电话打进来。
I can get up to a hundred calls a day, and sometimes calls come in before I come home.
只有在凌晨2点一直到第二天早上6点，没有突发事情的情况下，我可以稍微休息下，其他时段全是电话，响个不停。
Only between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. the next morning, when nothing unexpected happens, I can take a break. The rest of the time is full of phone calls.
居民们都是带着希望打的电话，我必须接。
The residents were on the phone with hopes, and I had to answer them.
尽我们最大的努力沟通协调，在疫情面前，居民的事都是大事。
Communication and coordination to the best of our ability, in the face of the epidemic, the residents are the major event.
他们打电话主要跟我反馈需要买菜、买药、心理焦虑、看病、发热等事情，甚至还有家里煤气没有了，外来务工人员没有饭吃等情况，都会打电话到我这来。
They call me to tell them they need to buy food, buy medicine, worry about psychology, see a doctor, have a fever, and even have no gas at home, migrant workers have no food to eat, and so on.
我记得，有一个低保户居民因为存折拿不出钱，他让我们借他300元，他说要把存折押在我这里，我说我们不要你的存折，我给了他300元，以解燃眉之急。
I remember a low-income resident who asked us to lend him 300 yuan because he couldn't pay his passbook. He said he would keep his passbook with me. I said we didn't need your passbook.
当然也有一些居民不太理解我们。
There are, of course, some residents who don't understand us.
曾有一个居民打电话埋怨我们不给他协调床位。
There was a resident who called to complain that we were not going to coordinate his bed.
他说政府让我们找社区，你不给我协调床位就不行，开始骂我们。
He said the government asked us to find a community. You can't do it without coordinating beds for me. You start scolding us.
我们听了表示理解，因为他家里有病人，但我们也很无奈。
We listened to understand, because his family has patients, but we are also very helpless.
社区既要做封路的工作，又要做保障民生的工作，同时对特困户要上门慰问，送药上门，做体温检测摸排工作、发布疫情。
The community should not only do road sealing work, but also do work to ensure people's livelihood, at the same time to the special hardship case to come to the door, deliver medicine door, do temperature testing mapping work, release epidemic situation.
一开始是遇到最大的问题是“一床难求”，居民打电话让我们解决住院问题，我们也没有办法，我们最无奈的就是看到居民一床难求，我心里像刀子割一样。
At first, the biggest problem was "one bed is difficult to get," residents called us to solve the hospitalization problem, we have no choice, we are most helpless to see the residents a bed difficult, my heart like a knife.
为了他们的床位，我们是见缝插针，每天在协调群里只要看到哪家医院有空缺床位，我们就立马“抢”名额。
For their beds, we are interspersed, and every day in the coordination group, whenever we see a hospital with vacant beds, we immediately "grab" the places.
2月10日之后，由于陆续建立了方舱医院，雷神山医院、火神山医院等都投入使用了，“住院难”的情况也慢慢缓解了。
After February 10, as a result of the establishment of the square cabin hospital, Lei Shenshan Hospital, Huoshen Mountain Hospital, etc., have been put into use, the "difficult hospitalization" situation has gradually eased.
“敲门行动”2月16日起，社区开始进行集中拉网式的大排查。
"Knock on the door" February 16, the community began to carry out a large-scale intensive screening.
三天期间，我们主要还是通过“微信群接龙排查”“电话排查”以及“入户排查”三种方式进行排查社区“死角”。
During the three-day period, we mainly through "micro-groups to search", "telephone screening" and "house search" three ways to search the community "dead corner.
其中“入户排查”，由25名社区干部和50多名下沉到基层的干部们，每4人组成一个网格，挨家挨户敲门排查。
The "house search" consists of 25 community cadres and more than 50 cadres who sink to the grass-roots level. Every four people form a grid and knock on the door.
除非他们在家里没人或者装作没听见，我们把每个门都敲了。
We knocked at every door except when they were at home and did not pretend to hear them.
一定程度上，我们也把这次排查工作称之为“敲门行动”。
To some extent, we also call this screening a "knock on the door."
第一天上门排查了7名疑似的发热病人，第二天1名发热病人，第三天2名发热病人。
On the first day, 7 suspected febrile patients were screened at the door, 1 feverish patient the next day and 2 febrile patients on the third day.
庆幸的是，有2个居民已排除“新冠”的嫌疑。
Fortunately, two residents have ruled out the suspicion of a new crown.
在这个过程中主要是遇到两方面的问题，一方面是居民对于社区人员开展排查工作的不理解，甚至会遭到居民的谩骂，另一方面，现在的检查工作要防止各种形式主义，“捆住”我们的手脚，搞得我们有些需要做的工作不能快速开展。
There are two main problems in this process: on the one hand, there is a lack of understanding on the part of the population with regard to community vetting, and on the other hand, there is a need to prevent all forms of formalism and to "tie" our hands so that some of the work we need to do cannot proceed quickly.
在19日15时许，我们已经排查4246户，排查8894人。
At about 1500 hours on the 19th, we had identified 4,246 households and 8,894 persons.
再过一阵，我们社区将完成所有“清零”工作。
In a little while, our community will have done all the "clean-up" work.
经过三天的排查工作，我们终于可以把确诊病例、临床诊断病例、疑似病例、确诊密切接触者、一般发热病人等“五类人员”安排送诊或集中隔离，我也感到比较欣慰。
I am also pleased that, after three days of screening, we have been able to arrange consultation or centralised isolation for "five categories of people," such as confirmed cases, clinically diagnosed cases, suspected cases, confirmed close contacts, and common febrile patients.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Dell Computation here into Dell Computers Computation of Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers, Computers and Computers.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在华南海鲜市场两公里外，做排查。
I'm two kilometers away from the south China seafood market.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我在华南海鲜市场两公里外，做排查";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 2 km from the South China seafood market.
var msg_desc = "再过一阵，我们社区将完成所有“清零”工作。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; in a little while, our community will have all the "clean-up" work done.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
