隔离前，她们去过4个城市，跟80多人吃过饭。
Before the quarantine, they visited four cities and ate with more than 80 people.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
村委会将“福”字作为封条贴在门锁上。
The village committee affixed the word "blessing" as a seal on the door lock.
受访者供图本文约3577字预计阅读时间9分钟作者 徐竞然编辑秦珍子秦筝和妹妹在救护车上度过除夕夜。
About 3577 words are expected to be read for 9 minutes. Author Xu Jingran, editor of Qin Zheng, and his sister spent New Year's Eve in an ambulance.
车厢里，坐在对面的医护人员身着防护服，没有一寸皮肤暴露在外，秦筝隔着护目镜看见对方的眼睛。
In the car, the medical staff sitting opposite wearing protective clothing, not an inch of skin exposed, Qin Zheng through the goggles to see each other's eyes.
秦筝是嘉兴人，一家6口，5个人在武汉生活，只有她在湖南读研究生。
Qin Zheng is Jiaxing people, a family of six, five people living in Wuhan, only she is studying in Hunan graduate school.
和往年一样，春节前，秦筝放了寒假先去武汉，再和家人一同回嘉兴。
As in previous years, before the Spring Festival, Qin Zheng first went to Wuhan during the winter vacation, and then returned to Jiaxing with his family.
今年，一家人兵分两路。
This year, the family split up.
1月13日，秦筝和妹妹从武汉汉口火车站出发，经南京、苏州，一路游玩吃喝，坐车乘船，1月16日抵达嘉兴。
On January 13, Qin Zheng and his sister set out from Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan, passed through Nanjing and Suzhou, and took a boat trip to Jiaxing on January 16.
父母则打点好生意，带着祖父母从武汉自驾返程。
My parents took care of the business and drove home from Wuhan with my grandparents.
2020年年初，这旅程拥有别样的意义。
In early 2020, the journey will have a different meaning.
除夕，秦筝的妹妹发烧了。
Qin Zheng's sister had a fever on New Year's Eve.
赶来的医护人员听完姐妹俩的行程，沉默半天。
The paramedics came and listened to the sisters' journey, silent for a long time.
秦筝也沉默了，她揣度着，“对方应该正在默默计算（如果确诊感染）需要隔离多少人”。
Qin Zheng also silent, she speculated, "the other side should be quietly counting (if confirmed infection) how many people need to be isolated."
救护车灯一路爆闪，最终停在一家新冠肺炎定点收治医院。
Ambulance lights flashed all the way to a New Crown Pneumonia Infirmary.
这是庚子鼠年的第一天。
This is the first day of the year.
1几个小时前，秦筝姐妹还和父母、祖父母在家中吃年夜饭、看春晚，并进行新增加的全体家庭成员活动——测体温。
A few hours ago, the Qin Zheng sisters and their parents and grandparents ate dinner and watched the Spring Festival Gala at home.
体温计是前一天秦筝爸爸从卫生站领来的，按人头发放，秦筝家领了6个。
Thermometer was the day before Qin Zheng father from the health station to receive, according to the head issued, the Qin Zheng family received six.
5分钟后，秦筝的体温计示数是“37摄氏度”，妹妹的示数是“37多一点”，全家的体温都略偏高。
Five minutes later, Qin Zheng thermometer index is "37 degrees Celsius", sister's index is "a little more than 37," the whole family temperature is slightly higher.
妹妹还有些咳嗽，说“手酸，腿酸”，感觉“和症状对上号了”。
Sister also coughed, said "hand acid, leg acid", feeling "and symptoms on the top."
一家人推测，肯定因为是晚餐喝了酒，或是关了空调着凉了，没特别紧张。
The family speculated that they were not particularly nervous because they had drunk at dinner or because the air-conditioner was cold.
妈妈叮嘱秦筝和妹妹分房睡，又给妹妹找来口罩戴上。
Mother told Qin Zheng and his sister to sleep in separate rooms, and found a mask for her sister to wear.
晚间11点多，爷爷奶奶先休息了，爸妈也回屋了。
At 11 pm, my grandparents took a rest and my parents went back to the house.
妹妹还在咳嗽，秦筝姐妹睡前又测了次体温，妹妹“37.4摄氏度”，秦筝突然“慌了”，叫醒爸妈，再给妹妹测一次，“37.5摄氏度”。
My sister was still coughing. The Qin Zheng sisters had another temperature before going to bed. My sister's temperature was 37.4 degrees Celsius. Qin Zheng suddenly panicked.
妈妈已经“站都站不住了，腿都软了”。
Mother has "been unable to stand, legs are soft."
爸爸给村长打电话说，“武汉来的有点发热。
Dad called the village chief and said, "Wuhan is a little hot.
”村里联系了急救车。
The village contacted the ambulance.
虽然秦筝没有发烧，但两姐妹同吃同住，为了和19岁的妹妹作伴，她也一起登上了救护车。
Although Qin Zheng did not have a fever, the two sisters lived together and boarded the ambulance with her 19-year-old sister as a companion.
出发前，秦筝带上了一根眉笔，“因为不知道要住多久”。
Before setting out, Qin Zheng took a eyebrow pen with him. "Because I don't know how long I will live."
2眉笔并没有派上用场，在医院里不太需要见人，秦筝脸都没洗过。
2 eyebrow pen did not come to use, in the hospital do not need to see people, Qin Zheng face has not been washed.
初一夜里1点半，她们抵达医院后，做过CT检测和咽拭子核酸检测，秦筝姐妹住进负压隔离病房，病房内有两道门，一道用于医护人员通行，另一道连接病人通行的走廊。
At 1: 30 p.m. on the first day of junior high school, they received CT and swabs tests for nucleic acid. The Qin Zheng sisters were admitted to the negative pressure isolation ward, which had two doors, one for medical staff and the other for the passage of patients.
护士叮嘱姐妹俩尽量不要出屋，“左右住的都是检测结果未出来的隔离病人”。
The nurse advised the sisters to try not to leave the house. "All the people living left and right were isolated patients whose test results had not come out."
病房的窗子没有窗帘，秦筝曾看到，有人睡觉也戴着口罩。
Ward windows have no curtains, Qin Zheng has seen that some people sleep and wear masks.
妹妹很快入睡，但秦筝睡不着，刷微博直到早上6点多。
My sister soon fell asleep, but Qin Zheng couldn't sleep.
秦筝第一次对新冠肺炎疫情有印象，是2019年12月31日，她刷到一条“武汉未知肺炎，专家组前去调研”的热搜，还特意截图发在家庭群里，叮嘱身在武汉的家人不要乱跑，让正在外地的父亲“回武汉时不要走汉口火车站”，记得戴口罩。
Qin Zheng on the first time to the outbreak of pneumonia, is December 31, 2019, she brushed a "Wuhan unknown pneumonia, the team of experts to study," the hot search, specifically in the family group, told the Wuhan family not to run, let the father in Wuhan when not to go back to Hankou Railway Station, "remember wearing masks.
“过了十几天，也没有看到更多消息”，秦筝自称“仿佛中邪一般忘记了肺炎这事”，以为“过去了”。
"After more than 10 days, also did not see more news," Qin Zheng said that "as if evil general forgot pneumonia this matter," thought "gone.
她和妹妹游玩的计划一点没有受到影响。
Her plans for the trip with her sister had not been affected at all.
走访亲友、置办年货，一家人为即将到来的春节准备着。
Visit relatives and friends, buy new year goods, the family is ready for the upcoming Spring Festival.
1月20日，腊月廿六的中午，秦筝一家宴请宾客，参席亲友约有80余人 ，席间有亲戚开玩笑“听说你们是武汉回来的，不能靠近你们”，大家边“打趣”边端起酒杯谈笑。
At noon on January 20, the Qin Zheng family invited guests to a banquet of about 80 friends and relatives. During the banquet, some relatives joked, "I heard that you are back in Wuhan, not close to you.
截至这场聚餐结束时，公共媒体对新冠肺炎疫情的报道还是“尚未发现明确的人传人证据”。
By the end of the meal, public media coverage of the outbreak was "no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission."
就在当晚，钟南山发声，肯定了“人传人”。
In the evening, Zhong Nan Shan voice, confirmed the "person-to-person".
3秦筝一家在武汉的住处距离华南海鲜市场约7.5公里，驾车需要15分钟，虽然家人从未去过这间市场，秦筝仍然忐忑，她想起自己在汉口火车站候车及乘车出行的经历，公共场合人们饮食交谈，熙熙攘攘看似如常。
Qin Zheng family in Wuhan, about 7.5 kilometers from the South China seafood market, driving 15 minutes, although the family has never been to this market, Qinzheng perturbed, she thought of her train waiting in Hankou Railway Station and car travel experience, public eating and talking, bustling as usual.
即使新冠病毒“人传人”现象已得到确认，6口之家，也只有两个孙辈重视。
Even if the new crown virus "person-to-person" phenomenon has been confirmed, a family of six, only two grandchildren value.
秦筝的父母还准备去参加朋友儿子大年初六的婚礼，秦筝粗略估算了一下，婚宴上大概有30多位武汉返乡人员，“我们这里很多人在武汉工作”。
The parents of Qin Zheng were also going to attend the wedding of their friend and son on June 6. Qin Zheng estimated roughly that there were more than 30 Wuhan returnees at the wedding reception.
她打开电视，寄希望于新闻能说服长辈，但正在播放的新闻多与肺炎无关。
She turned on the TV in the hope that the news would convince her elders, but much of the news being aired had nothing to do with pneumonia.
直到1月22日，秦筝父母从熟人那里获知，“附近有村子办酒席，席间一位武汉返乡人员发烧了，7桌客人全部被隔离”。
On January 22, Qin Zheng parents learned from acquaintances that "there is a village banquet nearby, a Wuhan returning to the table a fever, all seven table guests were isolated.
他们开始发自内心地警惕。
They began to be vigilant from the heart.
而后一位在温州的朋友被确诊的消息传来，“感觉这事就在身边”。
Then came the news that a friend in Wenzhou had been diagnosed. "It felt like it was there."
“我和妹妹刷微博刷得比较多，我们还盘算了一下，万一我们出事了，我们还去了南京，大家全完蛋了……”在登记回乡接触人员时，秦筝父母写下名字的接触人员将近百人。
"My sister and I brushed more micro-brush, we also calculated, in the event of an accident, we also went to Nanjing, everyone is finished..." When the contact home, Qin Zheng parents wrote the name of the contact people will be nearly 100.
秦筝见过电视上滚动播出的确诊者行程，她这种是一定会被人指点议论的，但她肯定地表示“如果早知道疫情有这么严重，绝不会出门聚会，更不会到处旅游”。
Qin Zheng, who saw the itinerary of the diagnosed person rolling on TV, was sure to be criticized, but confirmed that she would never have gone to a party or traveled anywhere if she had known the epidemic was so serious.
好在姐妹俩的CT检测并无异常，体温自入院当天起就恢复正常，两次病毒核酸检测均为阴性，后续无其他临床症状。
Fortunately, the sisters did not have abnormal CT examination, body temperature since the day of admission back to normal, two viral nucleic acid testing negative, no further clinical symptoms.
秦筝父母也到医院做过CT与核酸检测，均无异常。
The parents of Qin Zheng also went to the hospital to have CT and nucleic acid test, there are no abnormalities.
曾与秦筝一家聚餐的亲友身体暂无异常。
Qinzheng family dinner with friends and relatives of the body is not abnormal.
大年初三，医院通知秦筝姐妹出院，在她们入院隔离时，镇上所有的武汉返乡人员都已被隔离到酒店。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, the hospital notified the Qin Zheng sisters to leave the hospital. When they were hospitalized, all the Wuhan returnees in the town had been isolated to the hotel.
秦筝妈妈曾给女儿发来小视频，男女老少背着行李、戴着口罩、登记入住。
Qin Zheng mother has sent a small video to her daughter, men and women carrying luggage, wearing masks, check in.
村里派车接姐妹俩前往已被镇上征用的隔离酒店。
The village sent a car to the isolated hotel which had been requisitioned by the town.
“一看就知道那个车是来接你的”，秦筝回忆，司机师傅只有两只眼睛露在外面，虽然穿着的并不是医护人员的那种防护服，但全身都包起来了。
"I knew at a glance that the car was coming to pick you up." Qin Zheng recalled that the master had only two eyes, and although he was not wearing the protective clothing of the medical staff, he was wrapped all over his body.
上车前她们靠电话短信交流，上车后再没说过话。
Before they got on the bus, they talked by phone text messages, and after getting on the bus, they never spoke.
车子行驶了近20公里，车窗始终是摇下来的，冷风呜呜地往车里灌。
The car was nearly 20 kilometers away, the windows were still rolling down, and the cold wind whined into the car.
4大年初一，当秦筝姐妹正在等待第一次核酸检测结果时，她们在家族微信群里看到“自己被确诊了”。
When the Qin Zheng sisters were waiting for the results of their first nucleic acid test on the first day of New Year, they saw "themselves diagnosed" in the family microphone group.
发布消息的是秦筝的姑父，姑父称“我们村里有两例已经确诊”。
The announcement was made by the uncle of Qin Zheng, who said "two cases have been confirmed in our village."
姑父从朋友群里获得了消息，源头几不可考的“小道消息”被转了几道，转进了家族群。
My uncle got the news from a group of friends, and the source of the inexplicable "gossip" was turned several times into the family group.
全家都知道“村里有两例”指秦筝姐妹，只有她们是村里目前被送进医院的人，此前秦筝还在家族群里通报过自己的情况，嘱咐亲人不要走动，但她没想到辟谣之路是从给自己辟谣开始的，“感觉人们在想象我们的检查结果”。
The whole family knew that there were "two cases in the village" referring to the Qin Zheng sisters, who were the only ones in the village who were currently being taken to hospital. The Zheng also told his family not to move about, but she did not expect that the rumor-telling process would begin with a rumour-telling campaign, "It feels like people are imagining our results."
村民群里有人发“早上看到鄂A牌照的车往村里开”，有人发“不要让他们进来”，有人发“赶紧抓起来”……秦筝回复“见到就报给村里，让村里去核实”。
Some people in the village said "see the car with the E E license plate in the morning drive to the village," some people said "do not let them in," others said.
她觉得有些残酷，“大家都是一个村的，只是一些人在武汉工作”。
She felt a little cruel, "everyone is a village, but some people work in Wuhan."
群里有人发了路障图，说“嘉兴封路了”，秦筝找来官方消息辟谣；群里有人说“酒店都被征用了”，她回过去征用的真实情况；有人说“疫情比你们想象的严重”，她回复真实的隔离情况。
Some people in the group issued a roadblock diagram, said "Jiaxing closed the road," Qin Zheng found official information to deny rumors; people in the group said "the hotel has been requisitioned," she returned to the real situation of requisition; some said "the epidemic is more serious than you think," and she returned to true isolation.
秦筝理解村民的臆测行为，究竟有多少人正在隔离，谁在隔离，隔离期多久，他们并不知道。
Qin Zheng understood the villagers' guesswork, how many people were being isolated, who was being isolated, and how long.
秦筝想：“要是村里能及时把情况通报给那些未被隔离的人会不会好一点？”大年初一清早，秦筝的奶奶出门遇上一位村民，村民前一晚看到过救护车，问老人“知不知道带走了谁家的谁”。
Qin Zheng thought, "Would it be better for the village to inform those who were not isolated in time?" Early in the morning, the grandmother of Qin Zheng met a villager who had seen an ambulance the night before and asked the old man if he knew who had taken whom.
因为睡得早，奶奶还不知道，带走的是自己的孙女。
As she went to bed early, Grandma didn't know that she had taken her granddaughter with her.
51月31日，自武汉返乡日算起，14天隔离期结束，秦筝一家回到了家。
On 31 December, the 14-day isolation period ended, with the return of the Qin Zheng family to their homes.
爸爸给院子门上了锁，还和爷爷奶奶强调“不能出去玩”。
Dad locked the yard door and insisted with his grandparents that he couldn't go out to play.
阳光好的时候，爷爷奶奶坐在院子里晒太阳。
When the sun is bright, grandpa and grandma are sitting in the yard in the sun.
邻居隔着门栅栏喊话，有人知道秦筝一家平日在外工作，家里没囤粮，给他们送来自家种的青菜。
Neighbors shouted through the door fence, some people know that the Qin Zheng family work outside on weekdays, the family did not hoard grain, to bring them home-grown vegetables.
奶奶让邻居把菜放在门口，一会自己再去取。
Grandma told her neighbors to leave the dishes at the door and pick them up later.
邻居问，“有那么夸张吗？”这回换老人给他们讲解。
The neighbor asked, "Is that exaggeration?" This time the old man explained it to them.
有人路过朝屋里喊“要不要打麻将”，老人讲“不打，不能聚集，不要乱走”。
Someone passed by shouting "Do you want to play Mahjong or not?" The old man said, "Do not hit, can not gather, do not go about."
但14天隔离期的结束并未宣告危机的彻底解除。
But the end of the 14-day isolation period did not declare a definitive end to the crisis.
秦筝一家曾住过的隔离酒店中有人过了14天隔离期后被确诊为新冠肺炎。
People in the quarantined hotel where the Qin Zheng family lived were diagnosed with pneumonia after a 14-day quarantine period.
钟南山团队的研究也称病毒的潜伏期最长可达24天。
The Zhong Nan Shan team also said the virus has a incubation period of up to 24 days.
秦筝所在的村被“封”了，小路设置卡点，只有户籍在此处的人才可进入，进出村民都要量体温。
Qin Zheng village was "sealed", the path set up card points, only the residents here can enter, in and out of the villagers to take temperature.
2月2日，秦筝家也被“封”了，但村里很温柔，贴到门锁上的是一张“福”字。
On February 2, the Kite family was also sealed, but the village was very gentle and the word "blessing" was affixed to the door lock.
家里有需要的物资，汇报给村委会，村里派人送来。
The family needs the supplies, report to the village committee, the village send someone to send.
村委会每天都拖着喇叭满村转，宣传疫情防控。
Every day the village council carries its trumpet around the village to publicize the disease prevention and control.
秦筝听说，自己和妹妹坐上救护车的那天深夜，村委会的人被“她这个突发情况”从被窝里拖出来开会。
Qin Zheng heard that he and his sister on the night of the ambulance, village committee members were "her sudden situation" out of bed dragged out of the meeting.
村委会贴在秦筝家栅栏外的粉色告示2月11日，村里撤走了秦筝家的“封条”。
A pink notice posted by the village committee outside the fence removed the traditional kite-bearer's "seal" from the village on February 11.
结束了10天加长隔离期的一家人已经形成共识“家里最安全”，自发在家继续隔离。
The family, which ended a 10-day extended isolation period, has come to agree that "home is the safest" and remains isolated spontaneously at home.
在某种程度上，还有“家”可住已让秦筝觉得“幸运”。
In a way, there are "home" can live has let Qin Zheng feel "lucky."
她的一位朋友从温州康复出院后，正在酒店隔离，但因常年生活在武汉，并没有温州的居所，“隔离期结束就要无家可归，亲戚家的房子小区邻居反对他们住”。
A friend of hers, who was quarantined at the hotel after his convalescent discharge from Wenzhou, lived in Wuhan all year round and did not live in Wenzhou.
姐妹俩还没开学，一家人在嘉兴度过元宵节。
The two sisters were still at school and the family spent the Lantern Festival in Jiaxing.
在武汉做线下服装生意、“自己给自己发工资”的秦筝父母做好了上半年都不再回到武汉的准备。
Wuhan to do off-line clothing business, "their own wages for their own Zheng parents prepared for the first half of the year will not return to Wuhan.
虽然生意完全停工，但铺面租金还是要交，他们庆幸“没有雇人”，“还是命重要，钱嘛，算了”。
Although the business completely stopped, but still pay the pavement rent, they are glad "no one to hire", "or life important, money, forget."
秦筝父母的客户有人已被确诊感染了新冠肺炎。
A client of Qin Zheng's parents has been diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
一个深夜，秦筝发了条有6张配图的朋友圈，全都是武汉的美食。
One night, Qin Zheng issued a six-piece map of friends, all Wuhan food.
她想念那座城市，不知道什么时候疫情可以真正解除，人们能畅快地呼吸，自由地行动，抬头就能望见天空。
She missed the city and wondered when the outbreak could really be resolved, people could breathe freely, move freely and look up into the sky.
秦筝发布的朋友圈截图透过院门栅栏，仅能看到的那片光秃秃的水田秦筝实在看腻了，但她知道，那里种了藕，等到夏天就会长出成片的荷花。
Qin Zheng issued a friend circle screenshot through the gate fence, only to see the bare Zheng Zheng, but she knew, where the lotus root, until the summer will grow into pieces of lotus.
（应受访人要求，秦筝为化名。
At the request of the interviewee, Qin Zheng was an alias.
马奎对本文亦有贡献。
Marquis also contributed to this paper.
)中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking Please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
隔离前，她们去过4个城市，跟80多人吃过饭。
Before the quarantine, they visited four cities and ate with more than 80 people.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "隔离前，她们去过4个城市，跟80多人吃过饭";。
var msg _ title = & quot; before segregation, they visited four cities and ate with & quot; 80 people;;
var msg_desc = "在救护车上度过除夕夜";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; spent New Year's Eve & quot; in an ambulance.
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
