行动中的女孩们：“我们能做的还有很多”。
Girls in action: "We can do a lot more."
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
The following article comes from BIE别的女孩。
The following article comes from a girl in BIE.
Author 别的女孩。
Other girls in authorship.
BIE别的女孩。
BIE other girls.
距新型冠状肺炎疫情公开已经过去二十多天了，从最初的混乱和恐慌至今，人们似乎在一点点变得平静。
More than 20 days after the outbreak of the new coronary pneumonia, people seem to be calming down a bit from the initial chaos and panic.
生活的节奏被打乱，取而代之的是对 “非正常状态”的逐渐习惯。
The rhythm of life has been disturbed and replaced by a gradual habit of "abnormal state."
对很多参与在捐助行动里的人也是，紧张感从没消失，只是变得可以适应。
For many of those involved in donor action, the tension never fades, just becomes adaptable.
灾情中身体力行做起志愿者的女孩很多，选择投入的 “战线”也不一样。
In disaster situations, many girls actually do volunteer, choose to invest in the "front" is not the same.
我们采访了三个女孩，包括做信息翻译的洋流、做医疗物资捐赠的弦子，和做生活物资捐赠的 Sakura，想知道她们各自的体验是什么样子，并且有什么经验可以分享给更多想参与到行动中的年轻人。
We interviewed three girls, including the ocean currents for information translation, the string of medical supplies donated, and Sakura, who donated living materials, to see what their respective experiences looked like and what experiences could be shared with more young people who wanted to participate in the campaign.
因为出国读书，我已经两年没有回家过年。
I haven't been home for two years because I went abroad to study.
我不在的这两个春节里，母亲总抱怨过年很累，真想一个人躲到外地去。
In my absence these two Spring Festival, mother always complains about the New Year is very tired, really want to hide alone in the field.
我以为她是因为埋怨我做了夸张。
I thought she was complaining about my exaggeration.
1 月 19 日，我从北京返乡，归途的列车热闹拥挤，熟悉的乡音在空气里流窜。
January 19, I return from Beijing, the way back of the train crowded, familiar with the local sound in the air.
也许是受喜悦的影响，我脱下了带了一路的口罩。
Perhaps under the influence of joy, I took off my mask.
那是离开北京的前一天，我特地托朋友从他家附近唯一一家还开着的药店里买的口罩，是最高规格的 N95。
The day before I left Beijing, I specifically asked my friend to buy a mask from the only open drugstore near his home, the highest-specification N95.
北京西站的春运客流量春超过 10万人次，虽然新闻没有大规模报道，当时也并没有肯定有“人传人”的情况，但我想谨慎一点总没错。
Although the news did not report on a large scale and there was no certain "person-to-person" situation at that time, I think it is correct to be cautious.
晚上 9 点钟，列车到站，母亲说我是人潮中唯一带着口罩的人 —— 事实上，这个 N95 也成了我这个冬天唯一买到的口罩。
At 9 p. m., when the train arrived, my mother said I was the only one in the crowd wearing a mask - in fact, the N95 was the only one I'd ever bought this winter.
大年初一，我们一家人回到农村的奶奶家。
On New Year's Day, our family went back to Grandma's in the countryside.
村子里今年刚刚通了大暖，但奶奶节省，平时几乎不开，我们回去才拧开一点点，即使在家里我们也冷得没法脱下外套。
The village had just been warmed up this year, but Grandma was so economical that we could hardly unscrew it when we returned home, and even at home we were too cold to take off our jackets.
吃完饺子，开始洗碗。
After eating dumplings, we began to wash the dishes.
然后是串亲戚的一波波亲友，茶水一遍又一遍地倒上，茶几一遍一遍擦。
Then there are waves of relatives and friends visiting relatives, tea over and over again, tea table over and over again wipe.
接着就是备菜、做饭、收拾厨房。
Then came the preparation of vegetables, cooking, and cleaning up the kitchen.
农村水管里的水带着点冰碴儿，洗碗的时候我突然有点想哭。
The water in the rural pipe was ice-pecked, and I suddenly felt a little crying as I washed the dishes.
如果我不在，母亲需要一个人做完所有的事，又有谁和她分担呢？家里来来往往的亲人和朋友，没有一个人戴口罩。
If I'm not around, my mother needs someone to do all the work alone, and who shares it with her? Not a single one of her family and friends is wearing a mask.
我和母亲被厨房成堆的碗碟淹没时，父亲和其他所有男人一样，口袋里揣着一把瓜子谈笑风生。
When my mother and I were inundated by piles of dishes in the kitchen, my father, like all the other men, smiled with a melon seed in his pocket.
这种被伤害的感觉不易察觉，却扎实地落在目光可及的一切事物上：沾着泥土的青菜，没有剥完的蒜，地板上的尘、厨房里的水渍，穿过手指的冰凉的水……我也是突然意识到：并不是暴力和侵犯，才让女性感觉到性别的压力。
The feeling of hurt was imperceptible, but it fell firmly on everything that could be seen: dirt-stained greens, garlic not peeled, dust on the floor, water stains in the kitchen, icy water running through my fingers... I suddenly realized that it was not violence and aggression that made women feel the pressure of gender.
疫情蔓延中，性别问题在 “众志成城”的叙述中似乎不值一提，但它真的不存在吗？从被忽视的女性劳动者、被掩盖的一线女性形象（在最初的新闻中，都没有李兰娟院士的名字），到被刻意英雄化的女逆行者、被“自愿”剪去的头发......我没法注视着瀑布般的雨势，在温暖的房间里庆幸 “还好我有雨鞋”。
In the epidemic, gender does not seem to be a problem in the narrative of "like-minded cities," but does it really exist? From neglected female workers, hidden frontline images of women (no Academician Li Lanjuan's name in the original news) to deliberately heroic female insiders, "voluntary" haircuts... I can't watch the waterfall rain and congratulate myself in the warm room "I have rain shoes."
我此时尤其强烈的女性身份自觉，成了某种行动的催化。
My particularly strong sense of femininity at this time acted as a catalyst for some sort of action.
我必须做点什么。
I have to do something.
我必须工作。
I have to work.
我加入了澎湃新闻 “全球看武汉” 系列的翻译组 —— 这对我来说是能最好利用我的技能又能产生价值的志愿者 “工种” 之一。
I joined the translation team for the roaring news series "Wuhan on the World" - one of the best volunteer "jobs" for me to use my skills and generate value.
我与其他志愿者们和编辑们编译整理来自世界各地的、可能对人们应对和认识这次新型冠状病毒疫情有用的信息。
Together with other volunteers and editors, I compiled and collated information from around the world that might be useful to people in coping with and understanding this new coronavirus outbreak.
当时是疫情消息公开初期，这类信息尤其重要。
This information was particularly important in the early days of the outbreak.
由于对心理学有一些了解，我加入了心理组，翻译针对医疗工作者可能存在的心理压力、焦虑和应激的国外可借鉴的措施。
With some knowledge of psychology, I joined the psychology group to translate what foreign countries could learn from the psychological stress, anxiety, and stress that medical workers can experience.
该翻译已发表至澎湃，《全球看武汉|医护人员的风险感知：对抗非典时期的新加坡》|| 图片由本人提供对我而言，翻译能在一定程度上消解部分痛苦和心理抑郁——我是能做事的。
The translation has been published to roar, Global Perception of Risk in Health Care Workers: A Survey of SARS-era Singapore. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
那些在前线的女性医生护士，赴武汉的孙春兰副总理，火神山医院工地上的 “铁娘子们”，我争取与她们连结，向她们看。
Those female doctors and nurses on the front line, the Deputy Prime Minister Sun Chunlan to Wuhan, the "Iron Lady" on the construction site of Mount Fire Hospital, I tried to connect with them and look at them.
在歧视和不平等中，我和女性、劳动者、湖北人，和千千万万受伤的人在一起，这让我感觉好一些。
I feel better about myself in the midst of discrimination and inequality with women, workers, Hubei people, and thousands of injured people.
我们社工总说助人自助，我想这也算是我的一种实践吧，身为女性的实践。
We social workers always say that helping others help themselves. I think this is a kind of practice for me, as a woman.
1，在家庭的日常生活中，关注家庭中的女性，不要再“帮” 她们做家务，而是承担起自己应该的劳动。
In the daily life of a family, pay attention to the women in the family. Instead of "helping" them to do the housework, they should do their own work.
2，不要逃避，看到女性劳动者的工作、她们的需要，和她们的权利。
2. Do not shy away from seeing the work of female workers, their needs and their rights.
警惕那些拿女性身体做宣传的媒体话语，质疑它们，挑战它们。
Beware of the media discourse that uses women's bodies for propaganda, questioning them and challenging them.
我是武汉人。
I come from Wuhan.
今年 1 月，我收到一位出版社老师的捐款，希望我能帮忙把钱转交给可靠的慈善机构用于此次疫情。
In January, I received a donation from a publisher's teacher in the hope that I could help transfer the money to a reliable charity for the outbreak.
出于种种考虑，我并没有交给某机构，而是决定借此发起筹款，直接为在一线抗击疫情的医生购买医疗物资。
For all intents and purposes, instead of handing it over to an agency, I decided to launch a fund-raising campaign to buy medical supplies directly for doctors fighting the epidemic on the ground.
说做就做。
Do what you say.
这次行动是迅捷而迷你的：30分钟内拉起一个工作群，确定好参与人员后（大部分是我的朋友）停止入群；募捐消息是发在我的朋友圈，2、3 小时后筹款截止。
The campaign was quick and mini: Pull up a work group within 30 minutes, identify the people involved (most of whom are my friends), stop the group; raise money is sent to my circle of friends and close 2 or 3 hours later.
根据我们的判断，相比于武汉市内，周边地区的医院物资应该更为匮乏。
According to our judgement, compared with Wuhan city, the surrounding areas of hospital materials should be more scarce.
就这样，人手、资金、援助目标很快都已到位。
In this way, the targets for human resources, funding and assistance were quickly put in place.
最后确定下来的核心成员一共有 29 个人，有的负责与医院医生对接，有的负责在日本、俄罗斯、美国等地采买等。
A total of 29 core members were identified, ranging from docking with hospital doctors to buying in Japan, Russia and the United States.
群里的医生说需要哪些东西，我们就找、看、买，整个流程是平行的 ——麻烦的是后面。
The doctors in the group said what we needed, and we looked, looked, and bought. The whole process was parallel - the trouble was the back.
相比于成员之间的合作、与医生顺畅的沟通、流畅的筹款速度，非人力可为的物流无疑是最关键又最不可控的因素。
Non-manual logistics is undoubtedly the most critical and uncontrollable factor compared to cooperation among members, smooth communication with doctors and smooth fund-raising.
从海外采购的物资被海关卡得很死，必须联系慈善总会或红十字会才能快点过关；旅行禁令导致航班取消，三百个口罩滞留俄罗斯（后来一个素不相识的网友女孩帮我们人肉带回来了）；现在最困难的是把东西送到武汉周边地区，高速封路，没有车队，物流不走，“菜鸟”不送，最后是医院那边开车到孝感高速公路来取。
Goods purchased from overseas are so badly stuck in customs that they have to contact the General Association of Charities or the Red Cross to get through quickly; the travel ban has led to flight cancellations and 300 face masks stranded in Russia.
左：俄罗斯的女孩们帮我们在机场分运口罩；右：口罩终于到了医院真的开始“做点什么”以后，情况的确出乎我意料。
Left: Russian girls helped us distribute masks at the airport. Right: When the mask finally arrived at the hospital and really started "doing something," it really surprised me.
按我原来的打算，这次援助只是 “补一个空档”，就是官方物资到位之前给医院救救急，甚至我还担心过这些东西送到医院会显得“多余”。
My original plan was to "fill the gap" by giving hospitals emergency relief before official supplies arrived, and I even feared that it would be "unnecessary" to get them to the hospital.
没想到的是，一直到初十了，医院的物需仍然源源不断。
Unexpectedly, until the tenth day of junior high school, the hospital needs to continue to flow.
我们团队并不是一个有经验的、专业的公益组织，但是在有的医院没有收到政府援助的情况下，我们所作的小补充是很有必要的。
Our team is not an experienced, professional, pro bono organization, but our small additions are necessary in cases where hospitals do not receive government assistance.
在这个过程里，与人打交道出差错总是在所难免。
Mistakes in dealing with people are inevitable in this process.
有一回，医院的行政人员跟我们对接，说物资买错了。
Once, the administrator of the hospital docked with us and said that the goods had been purchased wrongly.
我们本打算把这些给二线人员，比如环卫工人。
We were going to give these to second-line workers like sanitation workers.
后来才了解到这其实是行政单方面的决定，说白了就是他们怕担事儿。
Later learned that this is actually an administrative unilateral decision, to put it bluntly, they are afraid of worry.
我们就换了一个接收人，很顺利地就送到一线了。
We had a replacement recipient, and it went straight to the front line.
更令人防不胜防的是那些高价倒卖的二道贩子，甚至骗子。
Even more defenseless are the high-priced second-movers, even cheaters.
有些物资的渠道并不是很有保障，有的说是医用其实是活性炭，还有那种说自己有几万个口罩的根本都不能相信。
Some of the supplies aren't guaranteed, some say they're actually activated carbon, and others that say they have tens of thousands of masks can't be trusted.
这是一个很考验甄别能力的活儿，也是一个很考验人性的机会。
It is a job that tests our ability to discriminate, and it is also an opportunity to test humanity.
比方说，我们团队里有一个女孩儿垫付了 9000块钱的口罩，对方却不发货。
For example, one of the girls on our team paid $9,000 in advance for a mask, but the other didn't deliver it.
所幸大家彼此信任，互相着想，觉得不能让她吃这闷亏，打算再筹钱弥补这次损失。
Fortunately, they trusted each other and thought of each other, and felt that they could not allow her to suffer the loss, and that they intended to raise more money to make up for it.
最后是女孩的对象打了一下午电话，威胁对方要报警才给退了钱。
Finally, the girl's subject made a phone call all afternoon and threatened to call the police before returning the money.
我们购入的紫外线消毒车，黄石十堰孝感三个地方都送了八台虽然碰到的麻烦事儿形形色色，但对我们这些武汉人来说，有事可做，就意味着情绪的恢复；一直在忙，总好过在悲观里打转。
We bought the ultraviolet disinfection vehicle, yellow stone Shiyan filial piety three places have given eight although the trouble encountered in a variety of things, but for us Wuhan people, to do something, means emotional recovery; has been busy, better than in the pessimistic spin.
特别是收到医生们的表扬时，我会感到，我有在帮助别人，总算有一点积极的东西在。
Especially when I receive praise from doctors, I feel that I am helping others, and that there is something positive in it.
不仅如此，家里人也觉得我们做的事很了不起。
Not only that, but the family felt we were doing something really great.
在我爸眼里，连接一个社群，把人联结在一起做同一件事儿是很难的；而对我和朋友来说，这是一个很习惯的事儿。
In my dad's eyes, it was hard to connect a community, to connect people to do the same thing; for me and my friends, it was a habit.
这可能就是两代人的区别所在。
That may be the difference between two generations.
这段时间，最使我受触动的，大概是人与人之间的连接感。
It was probably the sense of connection that touched me most during this time.
那时候，我的消息大概放出来半小时，就有很多朋友响应，包括关系并不是那么密切的，有看戏的朋友，几年前一起追星的朋友，都在非常努力地在帮助武汉。
At that time, my news release about half an hour, a lot of friends responded, including the relationship is not so close, there are drama friends, a few years ago together with the pursuit of friends, are very hard to help Wuhan.
在我这个小团体里，有人在新疆的药店一家一家买口罩，有人在纽约租车一整天去找所有能买的口罩和防护服，还有我的一个师弟在黄石疫情严重的时候在街上挨家挨户地买口罩给医生。
In my small group, some people buy masks in pharmacies in Xinjiang, others hire cars all day long in New York to find all the masks and protective clothing they can buy, and one of my classmates goes from house to house buying masks for doctors during the Yellowstone epidemic.
其中有一批物资还是朋友的老板给带回来的，我们与这位中年男人素不相识，他不仅协助了我们，还自发捐赠了医用手套和 N95。
One of them was brought back by a friend's boss, a middle-aged man we had never met who not only helped us but also donated medical gloves and N95.
一个卖给我们紫外线灯管的女孩自己并不是老板，努力帮我们压价，还打算干脆自己买来捐赠。
A girl who sold us an ultraviolet lamp was not the boss herself, trying to undercut the price and planning to buy it herself.
而且我们接触的医生都很谦让，他们会觉得可能别的医院也有需要，都不敢多要东西，特别让人感动。
And the doctors we spoke to were very courteous, and they felt it was possible that other hospitals needed something too, and that they didn't dare to ask for more.
公民的社会参与是一项技能，锻炼你对新闻的判断力，沟通、组织协调的能力，以及考验你应对危机的能力。
Citizen engagement is a skill that builds your judgment on news, your ability to communicate, your ability to organize, and your ability to cope with crises.
当公权力拒绝你，你要自己去找位置和价值。
When the public power rejects you, you have to find your own place and value.
1，能做的事情有很多，比如收集病人信息、求助信息，对一些消息及时作保留等等。
There are many things you can do, such as collecting patient information, asking for information, keeping track of information, etc.
可能有人做，但永远不够，自己去做事而不是指望别人才是最保险的。
Someone may do it, but it's never enough. It's safer to do things for yourself than to expect others to do it.
2，支持前线媒体，帮助正确的信息传播出去，比如宠物不会传染冠状病毒，比如金银花对疫情没有作用等。
2, support front-line media, help the right information spread out, such as pets do not infect coronavirus, such as honeysuckle has no effect on the epidemic.
3，总而言之就是，力所能及，亲力亲为。
All in all, do what you can and do it yourself.
当疫情在今年春节期间爆发时，如同许多关切此事的年轻人，我也萌发了“做点什么” 的念头，但随即又觉得自己的能力非常有限，好像做不成什么事情。
When the outbreak broke out during the Spring Festival this year, like many concerned young people, I also had the idea of doing something, but soon felt I had very limited ability, as if nothing could be done.
我想起父亲问我的那句话：Girlsup 女性平台对你个人有什么意义？我当时的回答是，它是一个 NGO 性质的组织，虽然没有经济意义，但给我带来了社会责任感。
I remembered my father's question: What does a Girlsup platform for women mean to you personally? My answer at the time was that it was a non-governmental organization that, though economically irrelevant, brought me a sense of social responsibility.
于是我决定去问问身边的人。
So I decided to ask the people around me.
说句心里话，本来我也只是去试着问一问，觉得大家也许会说，你别做了，很难的你做不来。
To tell you the truth, I was just going to try to ask, I think people might say, don't do it, you can't do it.
结果没想到，TA 们都说，好啊好啊！——在周围人的推动下，我还是迈出了那一步。
The result did not expect, TA people say, good ah! - in the surrounding people's impetus, I still took that step.
我找了@BIE别的女孩的 Alex（Alexwood）加入，她说：“能帮到一个人也是帮。
I asked Alex (Alexwood), another girl with @ BIE, to join me. "It's also helpful to be able to help someone," she said.
” 这让我又下了一次决心。
"It gave me another resolution.
我们1月底开始策划，2月4日项目大体成型，“萤火计划” 就这样启动了，这是针对一线女医务人员的援助行动。
We began planning at the end of January, February 4, the general shape of the project, "Firefly Project" was launched, this is the first-line female medical assistance operations.
我们前期跟一些医院做了调研，为数众多的女医务人员在岗位上长期坚守，急需女性卫生用品和生活用品。
We did some preliminary research with some hospitals, a large number of female medical staff in the long-term adherence to the post, women's health supplies and supplies are urgently needed.
后来我们也看到博主@梁钰 stacy的数据，仅孝感一地，前线女性医护人员就达到 1.66 万，武汉各家医院的女性医护都有好几千。
Later, we also saw blogger @ Leung Yu-stacy data, filial piety alone, the front-line female medical personnel reached 16,600, Wuhan hospitals have thousands of female medical care.
由此可以想见，女性生理期用品的缺口是非常巨大。
From this can imagine, the gap of female physiology period supplies is very huge.
作为民间女性团体，我们当然有责任去关注她们的需求。
As civil society women's groups, we certainly have a responsibility to pay attention to their needs.
按照计划，这次行动分为两个阶段，第一阶段是募集捐款与物资，等到疫情结束进入到疫后身心健康恢复。
According to the plan, the operation is divided into two phases, the first stage is to collect donations and supplies, until the end of the epidemic into the physical and mental health recovery.
|| 图源：@BIE别的女孩，由志愿者@格里尼 设计参与成员是陆续加入的，一开始是 Alex，接着是我们身边的朋友，再往后是朋友的朋友，像一个不断扩散的涟漪。
Source: Girls @ BIE, designed by volunteers @ Grini. Participating members have joined in succession, beginning with Alex, then with our friends, and later with their friends, like a spreading ripple.
经过几天的磨合，这个大约 16-20个人的团队慢慢形成一个分工明确的模式：1 位财务顾问，1 位法务顾问，1 位物流对接，2 位财务流水以及数位采购，我与 Alex 负责统筹。
After a few days of attrition, the team of about 16 to 20 people developed a well-defined division of labour: a finance consultant, a legal consultant, a logistics docking, two financial streams and digital procurement. I coordinated with Alex.
大家彼此之间也互相帮忙，我帮我做流水的朋友，她也跟进物流，负责采购的人也跟进医院信息，每个人不光有自己专门 focus 的地方，还要身兼多职。
Everyone helps each other, I help me to be a friend of the water flow, she follows the logistics, the person in charge of purchasing also follows the hospital information, each person not only has his own focus place, but also has more than one job.
这是一场持久的、忙碌的、耗费极大精力的战役。
It was a long, busy and exhausting campaign.
整个援助流程是十分繁琐的：对接医院拿到需求清单，再对接愿意以“萤火计划”的名义提供免费捐赠的企业，然后安排物流怎么走。
The whole process is tedious: docking hospitals with a list of requirements, docking companies willing to donate free of charge in the name of the "firefly program," and then organizing logistics.
除了卫生用品（左），还有伙伴前两天联系到了一单护目镜（右）| 图片来自 Sakura棘手的问题往往是随着事情的推进而逐个冒头的：刚开始没有资金，只能先找到医疗酒精、成人纸尿裤等资源，再对接到另一个公益组织安排运送；后来我们开始募资，因为需要用募集到的钱拍下尽可能多的资源，四万多块钱大约两天内就会花光；募捐资格也是一个问题，不过已在一个基金会的帮助下解决掉了。
In addition to the toiletries (left), another partner contacted a pair of goggles (right) the other day. Sakura's thorny questions tend to come up one after the other: No money was available at first, only resources like medical alcohol, adult diapers, and then another charity.
最近我正在为物流四处联络，现在湖北高速封路了，EMS 太慢，空运的话又太贵。
Recently I was trying to make contact for logistics. Now Hubei expressway is closed. EMS is too slow and too expensive for air transportation.
总有你原本以为不用担心的问题，结果就是你必须得担心。
There are always problems you thought you didn't have to worry about, and the result is that you have to worry.
"这只是一车卫生巾啊" || 图源：@GirlsUpShanghai每一天都有人在求助。
AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 124; & # 44; & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Source: @ GirlsUpShanghai Every day someone asks for help.
在做这件事给我最大的感触是，TA们真的真的很需要你的帮助，而且他们非常非常感激你的帮助。
The biggest thing about doing this is that the TA really need your help, and they really appreciate your help.
你在微信上面打字的时候是不知道对方的年龄啊，性格啊，等到发语音的时候，你才真切地意识到，TA 是一位医生，或是一位医院的主任，眼前这个活生生的人正在向你发出求救信号。
You don't know the other person's age when you type on it, personality, until the phonetic time, you really realize that TA is a doctor, or a hospital director, before the real person is sending you a call for help.
你真的没办法不被这种感觉打动到。
You really can't help being moved by this feeling.
也有很多陌生人向我们释放善意。
There are also many strangers who have shown us kindness.
当你面向公众发了微博以后，很多人自主地帮我们 PO 出去或者发朋友圈，还问我们有没有相关的可以转发的说辞；还有人私信说可以帮我们做统计、做对接等等。
When you send microblogs to the public, many people automatically help us out or send out friends, and ask if we have relevant retweets to forward; others say they can help us with statistics, docking, etc.
无论是募捐资金、收集物资还是转发宣传等等每一个环节，我们都收到了很积极的帮助。
Whether it's collecting money, collecting materials or forwarding publicity, we have received very positive help at every step.
这是一件需要很多人参与其中的事，每个人都在散发出他自己的那一点萤光。
It's something that needs to be done by a lot of people, and everyone is emitting a little bit of their own light.
物资送达医院的返图 |图片来自Sakura我们想一直坚持到疫情结束，虽然我也不知道到底会多久。
photo taken from Sakura. We want to hold out until the outbreak is over, though I don't know how long.
做这件事的确占据了我非常多的时间，但是再一想想，大家不是都没办法回到正常工作吗？这不是一个地方、一个群体的事，而是全国每一个人的生活都在受到影响。
It did take a lot of my time, but on second thought, can't everyone get back to their normal work? It's not a matter of a place, a group of people, but the lives of everyone in the country are affected.
我希望等到“萤火计划” 慢慢上了轨道，会有更高效的工作办法，目前的难题应该会有所改善。
I hope that by the time the Firefly gets back on track, there will be more efficient ways of working, and the current challenges should be improved.
（关于 #萤火计划# 更多信息和进度报告，请在微博 @BIE别的女孩 或 @GirlsUpShanghai 上搜索 #萤火计划#）1，有些状况很容易混淆你的心智，作为年轻人首先要 calm down，锻炼自己分辨事情的能力，不要带着偏激的情绪看待新闻舆论，学会独立思考。
(For more information and progress reports on # Firefly @ BIE, please search for # Firefly Plan # on Weibo @ BIE or @ GirlsUpShanghai.) Some situations easily confuse your mind.
2，先把自己做好，没办法开工就在家里好好看书。
Do yourself a good job and read well at home if you can't get started.
3，在力所能及的范围内去做你觉得对的事。
Do what you think is right within your power.
//作者：赵四，洋流//编辑：Alexwood，Luran//头图来源：孙百卉老师（她参与了#萤火计划# 安心裤的捐赠，并在这篇文章里详细记录了物流难题是怎么解决的）在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Author: Zhao Ziyi, Current / Editor: Alexwood, Luran / Head Map Source: Miss Sun Pai-hui (she participated in the donation of # Firefly # Anxiety pants and wrote in this article about how to solve the logistics problem) In this epidemic, are you forced to change your life habits, what new relationships have you had with those around you?
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
虽然叫 “武汉呼叫”，但疫情影响的是我们所有人。
Although it is called Wuhan Call, the epidemic affects us all.
无论你来自哪里，身在哪里，我们都想听到你的故事。
Wherever you come from, wherever you are, we want to hear your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
行动中的女孩们：“我们能做的还有很多”。
Girls in action: "We can do a lot more."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "行动中的女孩们：“我们能做的还有很多”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; girls in action: "We have a lot to do" & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "\x26quot;我没法注视着瀑布般的雨势，在温暖的房间里庆幸自己还有雨鞋。
var msg _ desc = & quot;\ x 26quot; I couldn't watch the cascade of rain and congratulate myself on having rain shoes in the warm room.
\x26quot;";。
\ x 26quot; & quot;;
title: '我们把安心裤送到了一线女性医护手里！',。
At the hands of front-line women's health care.
subject_name: '橙雨伞',。
Subject _ name: & apos; orange umbrella & apos;,
title: '武汉酒馆老板：我们停业了，但这座城市没停摆',。
Wuhan Tavern owner: We are out of business, but the city has not stopped and never stopped.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '那些在封城前离开武汉的人都去哪了？',。
Where did all of those who left Wuhan before the siege? & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '封城后，我拍下了城内人们努力维系的平凡生活',。
At the end of the city, I photographed the everyday life and prosperity that its people fought to keep.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
