广东医疗队援汉日记：带上SARS防治经验，进入武汉疫区。
Guangdong Medical Team to help Han Diary: Bring SARS prevention and treatment experience into Wuhan epidemic area.
高伊琛 李在磊。
Gao Yichen Li in Lei.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲广东医疗队医生在会诊病情。
The doctor of Guangdong Medical Team is consulting.
（采访对象供图/图）全文共5409字，阅读大约需要13分钟。
The full text is 5409 words and will take about 13 minutes to read.
在生与死构筑的无奈当中，也有些闪着人性之光的事情。
In the helplessness of life and death, there is also a flash of the light of human affairs.
医护人员发现，在有些病房，年轻人会主动照顾老人，病情轻的会照顾病情重的，守望相助。
Medical staff found that in some wards, young people would take the initiative to care for the elderly, while the mild ones would take care of the seriously ill and look after each other.
医疗队总能感受到来自陌生人的暖意。
The medical team always feels the warmth from strangers.
近几日天气转暖，一些队员会选择步行上班。
Some members of the team have chosen to walk to work as the weather has turned warmer in recent days.
总会有人摇下车窗说，是不是上班？要不要送你过去？进驻汉口医院，医疗队最先做的就是隔离工作。
Someone will always roll down the window and say, 'Shall I take you to Hankou Hospital?' The first thing the medical team does is isolate the work.
“我们最重要的一个目标，就是要零感染回去。
"One of our most important goals is to get back to zero infection.
”队伍之中，郭亚兵、李利、史丽莎都是小汤山医护团队成员，曾经奋战在抗击SARS疫情的最前线。
Among the ranks, Guo Yabing, Li Li and Lisa are all members of the Xiaotangshan medical team who fought at the forefront of the fight against the SARS epidemic.
“你会觉得有一帮见过世面的人在领着你，信心一下子就提起来了。
"You feel as if you are being led by a group of people who have seen the world, and confidence is suddenly lifted up.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 高伊琛 李在磊责任编辑 | 何海宁那名75岁的男性患者右胸突然疼得厉害。
"This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 45; South Weekend reporter Gao Yichen Li. & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
他的血氧浓度从90%左右一下子掉到百分之五六十，按照临床经验判断，可能是气胸。
His blood oxygen concentration plummeted from about 90% to 60%, probably pneumothorax, based on clinical experience.
但隔着防护服，无法使用听诊器进行判断，患者命悬一线。
But across the protective clothing, the stethoscope can not be used to judge, the life of the patient hanging.
中山大学附属第一医院重症医学专家吴健锋找来一台超声机，很快看到“肺点”，情况确为气胸。
Zhongshan University Hospital attached to the first hospital severe medical expert Wu Jianfeng found an ultrasound machine, soon to see "lung point," the situation is indeed pneumothorax.
清楚病情，接下来的穿刺治疗，就顺理成章了。
Know the condition, then puncture treatment, it is logical.
气体被引出，血氧饱和度上升，病人转危为安。
The gas is drawn up, blood oxygen saturation rises, and the patient is safe.
吴健锋是首批广东医疗队队员，2020年1月24日除夕夜，他与其他127名三级甲等综合医院的医护人员自广州出发，前往武汉支援。
Wu Jianfeng was one of the first members of the Guangdong Medical Team. On January 24, 2020, he and 127 other medical staff of the Class III A General Hospital left Guangzhou for Wuhan to provide support.
他们所在的汉口医院距离华南海鲜市场不远，直线距离三公里，开车只要几分钟，是这次武汉新冠肺炎疫情重灾区。
Hankou Hospital, not far from the South China Seafood Market, is just a few minutes' drive away from the South China Seafood Market.
在驰援武汉的十余天中，这支医疗队遇到了种种问题：人手不足、病人过多、物资紧缺、流程混乱，尤其受限于硬件设备。
During its more than 10 days of assistance to Wuhan, the medical team encountered a variety of problems: understaffing, over-patient capacity, material shortages and procedural disruptions, particularly in terms of hardware equipment.
ICU必配仪器大多没有，许多治疗手段无法实施，这让队员们一度非常沮丧。
Most ICU fixtures were not available and many treatments could not be performed, leaving the players frustrated for a while.
“刚来的时候总觉得好像无用武之地。
"It always feels like a useless place to start with.
”吴健锋说，“后来一看，医院有什么条件，我们就把这些条件挖掘好，把它用到极致。
"Later, we found out what conditions there were in the hospital, so we dug them up and put them to the utmost.
”1月31日那天，在汉口医院实现了第一次可视化治疗，这对他来说意义重大。
On January 31, the first visual treatment took place at Hankou Hospital, which meant a lot to him.
广东医疗队领队、南方医科大学南方医院感染科主任郭亚兵告诉南方周末记者，医疗队的重点任务是收治病人，分类隔离。
Guangdong medical team leader, Southern Hospital Infection Director Guo Yabing told Southern Weekend reporter, the focus of the medical team is to treat patients, the classification of isolation.
“我觉得整个过程，从无序慢慢有序，从慌乱、不稳定，慢慢走向稳定与高效，到现在，大家的注意力都在抢救病人了。
"I think the whole process, from disorder to order, from confusion, instability, slowly to stability and efficiency, by now, everyone's attention to rescue patients.
”1最大难关：找氧气氧供不足，这是广东医疗队面临的最大问题。
The biggest difficulty: Lack of oxygen supply is the biggest problem facing the Guangdong medical team.
供氧有多重要？用医疗队院感督导组组长、中山大学附属第一医院感染管理科主任医师刘大钺的话来说，氧气供应得上，病人就会逐渐改善，没有充足的氧气，就会呼吸困难，导致死亡。
How important is oxygen supply? In the words of Liu Dayyue, the director of the Hospital Sentinel Guidance Team of the Medical Team and Chief Medical Officer of Infection Management Section of Hospital No. 1 affiliated with Zhongshan University, large Liu Yue, the patient will gradually improve the supply of oxygen, without adequate oxygen, breathing difficulties will lead to death.
这原本不算个难关。
It wasn't supposed to be a problem.
“病人血氧不好了，可以上高流量。
"The patient has poor blood oxygen and can go up high.
高流量不行，还有无创。
High traffic doesn't work. It's non-invasive.
无创不行，还有有创，还有ECMO(体外膜肺氧合)这一系列的呼吸支持手段，我们都掌握得非常熟练。
Non-invasive, invasive, and ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) series of respiratory support means, we are all very proficient.
”中山大学附属第一医院重症医学科医生司向无奈的是，即便他提到的呼吸机集体到位，也没有办法在汉口医院使用。
Zhongshan University attached to the first hospital in the Department of Severe Medicine to the helpless, even if he referred to the collective breathing machine in place, there is no way to use in Hankou Hospital.
汉口医院中心供氧不足，氧压不够，本身的硬件设施不足以支持机器的使用。
Hankou Hospital Center is short of oxygen, oxygen pressure is not enough, its own hardware facilities are not enough to support the use of machines.
这所以康复医疗为主的二甲医院在建设之初绝想不到，有一天，它收治的420至430个病患中，有超过80%都需要吸氧。
This is why the rehabilitation-based Erfa hospital, which was first built, one day admitted 420 to 430 patients, more than 80% of them need oxygen.
当它被选为定点医院之后，这一硬伤是致命的。
When it was selected as a designated hospital, the injury was fatal.
效用最强的有创呼吸机与高流量呼吸机在汉口医院都无法使用。
The most effective invasive ventilator and high-flow ventilator are not available in Hankou Hospital.
南方医科大学珠江医院呼吸与危重症医学科主治医师吴锡平解释，有创呼吸机是在病人气管插入管道，由呼吸机给病人提供呼吸动力，是最保险的选择。
Wu Xiping, director of respiratory and critical medicine at the Pearl River Hospital of the Southern Medical University, explained that invasive breathing machines are the safest option for patients to inject a tube into their trachea, where a ventilator provides the patient with breathing power.
高流量呼吸机则顾名思义，一定要让氧气达到比较高的流量，方能发挥效用。
High-flow breathing machine as the name implies, must allow oxygen to reach a relatively high flow, can play a role.
它们都需要医院本身有足够的氧量。
They all need oxygen in the hospital itself.
司向说，“一旦使用高流量呼吸机，就像一个阀门打开了，氧气全都往这边跑，其他病人就没有了。
'Once you use a high-flow ventilator, it's like a valve is open, oxygen is running this way and the other patients are gone.
”无创呼吸机尚且能用，将面罩紧贴病人口鼻处，机器会给病人单向顺气，帮助呼吸，但它不会增加病人的氧量。
"The non-invasive breathing machine works, sticking the mask close to the nose of the sick person. It gives the patient one-way ventilation and helps him breathe, but it does not increase the patient's oxygen supply.
只能给其一定动力，对重症病人的帮助有限。
It can only be given some motivation, and help for the seriously ill is limited.
但即便如此，无创呼吸机也是不够的。
But even then, a non-invasive ventilator is not enough.
“我们的无创呼吸机只有三台左右，目前还有六七个重病人。
"We have only about three non-invasive ventilators and six or seven seriously ill people.
”吴锡平说。
'said Wu.
“病人如果不插管上呼吸机，顶不到几个小时就会死掉。
"If the patient is not intubated on the ventilator, he or she will die within a few hours.
”广东省人民医院危重病监护二科主任医师邓医宇2月4日在医疗队微信群说。
"Guangdong Province People's Hospital critical care two physicians Deng Jiyu February 4 in the medical team micro-letter group said.
他发现，前一日值班病房有8至10个病人血氧饱和度在80%-90%之间波动，其中有两个病人血氧饱和度只有70%左右，“看到这个场景我们心里很难受”。
He found that the oxygen saturation of 8 to 10 patients in the previous day's ward fluctuated between 80 and 90 per cent, including two patients with blood oxygen saturation of only about 70 per cent.
刘大钺明白他的感受。
Yue Liu understands his feelings.
他告诉南方周末记者，“我们医护人员不是说救治压力多大，实际上，很多是在于我们觉得这个病人还可以搏一搏，但是没有条件，只能眼睁睁看着，这才是痛苦的。
He told Southern Weekend reporter: "Our paramedics do not say how much pressure is being treated. In fact, a lot of it is because we think this patient can still try, but there is no condition, can only watch, it is painful.
”这种源于医院本身资质的硬伤障碍，不止有广东医疗队会遇到，而是一批定点医院的共性问题。
The hard-hitting disorder, which stems from the hospital's own qualifications, is a common problem not just among Guangdong medical teams, but among a number of designated hospitals.
“市委书记来调研时也说了，市委市政府也在考虑从全市的角度，定点医院是不是要做进一步的调整。
"When the party secretary came to investigate, he said that the city government was also considering whether to make further adjustments to the designated hospital from a city-wide perspective.
”刘大钺说，“但现在，等于是我们都在自己想办法。
"said large Liu," but now, we are all in their own way.
”他们想的“土办法”是推氧气瓶，氧气瓶一米多高，比煤气罐还重些，每天往病房推十几瓶。
The "home remedy" they thought was to push an oxygen cylinder more than a meter high, heavier than a gas canister, and push a dozen bottles a day into the ward.
这仍不是长久之计，对于吸氧较多的病人来说，一个氧气瓶只能用一两个小时。
This is still not a long-term solution. For patients who consume more oxygen, an oxygen cylinder can take only an hour or two.
领队们还要来了三十台制氧机，在床边通上电源就会产生氧气。
Thirty more oxygen machines are needed from the team leaders, and a power supply at the bedside will produce oxygen.
2月4日，又有一百台制氧机增援汉口医院，是钟南山院士团队捐赠的。
On February 4, a hundred oxygen machines were added to Hankou Hospital, donated by the team of academicians of Zhong Nan Shan.
这些制氧机将会被分发到各病房，尽量满足轻症病人的使用。
The machines will be distributed to wards to cater for light patients.
至于重症病人所面临的问题，现在仍然难以解决。
As for the problems faced by the seriously ill, they are still difficult to solve.
郭亚兵很直白地说，汉口医院收治危重症的条件是不够的。
Guo Yabing very bluntly said that Hankou Hospital admission to critically ill conditions is not enough.
2生死之间的守望相助整个病区，患者的年龄大多在五六十岁以上，发热，呼吸困难。
2 between life and death watch to help the entire disease area, the majority of patients aged over 50 or 60 years, fever, breathing difficulties.
考虑到交叉感染的问题，轻症病人是不允许家属陪护的。
Considering the problem of cross-infection, family members are not allowed to accompany patients with mild cases.
但重症病人建议陪床，身边大多有人照顾。
But seriously ill patients are advised to stay in bed, most people around care.
吴锡平印象最深的，是一名88岁的男性患者，住在45床。
Wu Xiping was most impressed by an 88-year-old male patient living in 45 beds.
他有高血压和心脏病，病得很重，平时没有力气讲话。
He has high blood pressure and heart disease. He is very ill and usually has no energy to speak.
令吴锡平奇怪的是，这个病人的家属一直不在身边。
To Wu's surprise, the patient's family was never around.
1月31日凌晨1点刚刚交班，护士突然跑来叫吴锡平，说45床情况不好。
January 31, 1: 00 am just turned over, the nurse suddenly came to call Wu Xiping, said 45 beds are not in good condition.
医生想要通知家属发病重通知书，打了几个电话，都没有人接。
The doctor wanted to notify the family of the heavy notice of illness and made several phone calls, but no one answered.
凌晨2点，铃声响起，是45床的女儿回拨电话。
Two in the morning, the bell rings, and the 45-bed daughter calls back.
她静静听吴锡平交待父亲的病情，然后她告诉吴锡平，自己现在过不来：她的母亲也病危了，需要照顾。
She listened to Wu Xiping confide in her father's illness, and then told Wu Xiping that she could not get by: her mother, too, was critically ill and needed care.
双亲之中，她照顾一个，就顾不了另一个。
Of her parents, she couldn't look after one without looking after the other.
而且，她自己也在发热，在家隔离。
Besides, she herself was feverish and isolated at home.
她担心自己同样得了病，出门会传染给别人。
She was afraid that she, too, would get sick and go out and infect others.
吴锡平听到电话那头，她的声音在颤抖。
Wu Xiping's voice trembled when he heard the other end of the phone.
他告诉她，安心养病，“父亲在医院里边，我们都会尽全力(去救)的。
He told her that he was well enough to recover. "My father is in the hospital and we'll do everything we can.
”医疗队成员大多经历过类似的事情，生命之脆弱、个人能力之限让他们倍感无力。
Members of the medical team have mostly experienced similar experiences, with their lives fragile and their personal abilities limited.
在生与死构筑的无奈当中，也有些闪着人性之光的事情，让这些医护人员稍感安慰。
In the helplessness of life and death, there is also a flash of the light of human nature things, let these medical staff a little comfort.
他们发现，在有些病房，年轻人会主动照顾老人，病情轻的会照顾病情重的，守望相助。
They found that in some wards, young people take the initiative to take care of the elderly, and those who are less ill will take care of the seriously ill and keep watch.
广东省人民医院心外科护士杜杨遇到一位67岁的阿姨，帮病人们拿饭，打扫卫生，甚至清洗卫生间，阿姨是其中一个病人的家属，主动照顾了同病房3位确诊患者近二十天。
Du Yang, a heart surgery nurse at Guangdong's People's Hospital, met a 67-year-old aunt who helped patients fetch food, clean up and even clean the toilet.
阿姨告诉杜杨，自己抵抗力好，留下来多做一点力所能及的事情，医护人员才能有更多的精力做更专业的事。
Auntie told Duyang that his resistance is good, to stay to do more things within their ability, the medical staff can have more energy to do more professional things.
杜杨在日记里感慨道:“在繁重的医疗工作中，我们与患者彼此仰望，彼此感动。
"We looked up at each other and moved each other in the heavy medical work," he said in his diary.
要始终相信，这个世界上，真的有天使，一切都会好起来。
Always believe that if there are angels in this world, everything will be all right.
”安慰是双向的。
Comfort goes both ways.
医疗队的到来，同样抚慰了病患们心中的不安。
The arrival of the medical team also reassured the patients.
每次查房，吴健锋都会乐呵呵地跟病患打招呼。
Every time the house inspection, Wu Jianfeng will be happy to greet patients.
“我觉得那句话还是对的，有时治愈，常常帮助，总是安慰。
"I think that's true, sometimes healed, often helped, always comforted.
”他重视这种心理安慰，“你稍微安慰他两句，他马上就会安静下来，因为他心里就有底。
He took the consolation to heart, "You comfort him a little, and he will soon be quiet, for he has the bottom of his mind.
”医疗队接手了病人最重的病区，最初有70个病人，其中3个病危，52个病重。
The team took over the worst-affected area, initially with 70 patients, three critically ill and 52 seriously ill.
“接手时病房可以说是一片混乱。
"The ward was a mess when I took over.
”吴健锋回忆，“病人收治量太大了，根本承受不了。
"The volume of treatment was too large to bear," Wu recalled.
”医生、护士加上3位院长，总共只有28个。
There are only 28 doctors, nurses and three deans.
护士4小时一班，医生6小时一班，每班4人。
Nurses leave every four hours, and doctors go in six hours, four per shift.
最多的时候，4名医生差不多要看接近八十个病人。
At most, four doctors see almost eighty patients.
每个人原本都有理由不参与此次行动。
Everyone would have had a reason not to participate in the operation.
中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院血液内科护士梁玉婵原本预约了在2月2日领取结婚证，广东省中医院大学城医院心血管二科护士胡常伟女儿刚满周岁，但她们都报了名。
Dr. Leung Yuk-chan, a blood nurse at Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Zhongshan University, made an appointment to collect the marriage certificate on February 2.
用郭亚兵的话来说，大家是在半天以内集中起来，大年三十直接被空投到武汉的，“这第一步大家都不容易。
In Guo's words, we are gathered in half a day, the year 30 was dropped directly to Wuhan, "this first step is not easy for everyone.
”第一批队员来自广州的9家三级甲等综合医院，128名医护人员除夕晚上从广州出发，大年初一凌晨到达武汉，在赶路中度过春节。
The first batch of members came from nine Grade A general hospitals in Guangzhou, and 128 medical staff arrived in Wuhan early on New Year's Eve from Guangzhou on New Year's Eve to spend the Spring Festival in the middle of the road.
紧接着，1月27日，三家中医院共60人组成的中医医疗队驰援湖北，接管湖北省新华医院(湖北省中西医结合医院)新增收治疑似与确诊的两个科。
Immediately afterwards, on January 27, a 60-member Chinese medicine team from the three traditional Chinese medicine hospitals rushed to Hubei province to take over two new departments of treating suspected and confirmed patients at the Xinhua Hospital in Hubei Province.
1月28日晚，广州、汕头、东莞、茂名、梅州、揭阳等地市医院共计19家医院的147名医护人员也出发援鄂，负责汉口医院另一病区，其中10名护理人员被分去支援金银潭医院。
On the evening of January 28, 147 medical personnel from 19 hospitals in Guangzhou, Shantou, Dongguan, Maoming, Meizhou and Jieyang also set out to assist the hospital in Hubei. Ten nurses were assigned to the hospital.
2月1日晚，广州医科大学附属第一医院7名队员也前去协助武汉协和医院危重症救治医疗队，钟南山院士到场送行。
On the night of Feb. 1, seven members of the First Hospital attached to Guangzhou Medical University also went to assist the medical team of Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
至此，广东先后四批342名医护人员集结武汉。
So far, Guangdong has four batches of 342 medical personnel concentrated in Wuhan.
医疗队日报数据显示，截至2月3日12时，医疗队共收治患者208人。
Medical team data from the daily newspaper showed that, as at 1200 hours on 3 February, 208 patients had been treated by the medical team.
3SARS经验:做好防护与隔离防护与隔离，是这支来自广东的队伍的两大经验。
SARS Experience: Good protection and isolation is the two major experience of this team from Guangdong.
作为医疗队仅有的3名小汤山老将之一，惠侨医疗中心护士长李利对南方周末记者说，她的经验就是保持好心态，稳定好队员们的情绪，做好个人防护及严格做好感控工作。
Li Li, the head nurse of the Huiqiao Medical Center, one of only three senior generals in the medical team, told Southern Weekend that her experience was to maintain a good attitude, stabilize the mood of the team members, take good personal protection and do a good job of sensibility control.
进驻汉口医院，医疗队最先做的就是隔离工作，将医院划分污染区、半污染区与清洁区，将各分区间的门做了改造与更换，增加各自空间的密闭性。
When entering Hankou Hospital, the medical team started with the isolation work, divided the hospital into polluted area, semi-polluted area and clean area, reformed and replaced the doors in each section, and increased the closeness of their respective spaces.
“我们最重要的一个目标，就是要零感染回去。
"One of our most important goals is to get back to zero infection.
”中山大学附属第一医院检验科医生王锐智说。
Zhongshan University attached to the first hospital laboratory doctor Wang Ruizhi said.
他是11名检验科医生之一，由于汉口医院检验科暂不需人员替换，目前专司后勤，负责将防护目镜和面屏清洗、消毒与晾干，还要定期消毒病房，发放物资，保障医疗队的每日餐食。
He is one of the 11 examining physicians who, as a result of the temporary replacement of staff in the Hankou Hospital Laboratory Section, is currently specializing in logistics, cleaning, disinfecting and drying protective eyepieces and face screens, as well as regularly disinfecting the wards, distributing supplies and ensuring the daily meals of medical teams.
让检验科医生们做后勤，似乎有些大材小用。
It seems a bit of a stretch to have the examiners do the logistics.
“其实还真不是。
"Not really.
”王锐智很重视这项新任务，他每天会对换衣服的缓冲区、半缓冲半污染区做一次消毒，“如果我们这些人没有来的话，这些事情都不知道要谁做。
Mr. Wang takes the new task seriously, disinfecting clothing-changing buffer zones, semi-buffer zones and semi-polluted areas once a day.
”医生护士都忙，就连刘大钺，都在一开始“捡了两天垃圾，做了两天搬运，还当了一天维修工”。
Doctors and nurses are busy, even large Liu Yue, in the beginning "picked up two days of garbage, did two days of moving, and a day as a maintenance worker."
很多女队员剪掉了长发。
Many women cut off their long hair.
广东省第二中医院的10名女生还用剃须刀和医用备刀皮，剃掉了头罩移动容易外露的头发，集体将脑后发际线上移三四厘米。
Ten girls at Guangdong's No. 2 Chinese Hospital shaved their hair with razors and medical paraphernalia and collectively moved their hair up three or four centimeters up the back of their head.
保护自己不受感染，防护服的重要性怎样强调都不为过。
The importance of protective clothing cannot be overemphasized to protect oneself from infection.
上班前，他们需要戴第一层鞋套、第一双手套和防护目镜，穿好防护服，再戴第二双手套，穿防水围裙，戴第三双手套，戴上面屏，最后戴第四双手套。
Before going to work, they need to wear the first shoe cover, the first pair of hands and goggles, protective clothing, a second pair of jackets, a waterproof apron, a third pair of hoodies, a top screen and a fourth pair of hoodies.
这才算完成任务。
That's the end of the job.
戴上防护目镜和面屏后，看东西变得模糊起来。
After wearing protective goggles and a face screen, things look fuzzy.
在视野受干扰的情况下，中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院急诊科男护士梁成摸索出了一套打针新方法。
In view of the disturbance, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital emergency department male nurse Liang Cheng groped out a new set of injection methods.
他发现，防护目镜左右最边缘处有区域是相对清晰的，选择血管的时候，他会刻意调整面部位置，斜视那1到2厘米的清晰区，他发现，当面部正面与患者血管成40至45度角时，是能看见血管大致位置的，可以做到“一针见血”，少让患者受罪。
He found that the area at the left and right edges of the eyepiece was relatively clear. When choosing a blood vessel, he purposely adjusted his face and squinted to a clear area of 1 to 2 centimeters.
全副武装降低了医护人员的工作效率，却也是保护他们的唯一屏障。
Being fully armed reduces the efficiency of health-care workers, but it is the only way to protect them.
防护服上写着每个人的名字，这是辨认每张面孔的最快方式。
Everyone's name was written on the protective clothing, which was the quickest way to identify each face.
“穿的话，其实只要把所有潜在的暴露的部分都包起来就可以了。
"If you're wearing it, you just need to wrap up all the potentially exposed parts.
问题主要是脱，进去污染区之后，你已经是污染状态了。
The main problem is getting rid of it. After you go in and pollute the area, you're in a state of pollution.
脱每一件装备都要注意，不要让外层的东西污染到里层衣物。
Take care not to let the outer layer contaminate the inner clothing.
”王锐智说，每个步骤都必须严格按照顺序，慢慢地、非常仔细地将外层受污染区域翻到里面去，脱外层隔离衣，再脱帽子、防护服、护目镜，每做一步都要给手消毒。
Mr. Wang says each step must be done in strict sequence, slowly and very carefully turning the outer contaminated area inside, removing the outer layer of clothing, removing the hat, the protective clothing, the goggles and disinfecting the hands at every step.
进入病区前，医疗队队员们花了一整天练习防护服穿脱，形成自己的习惯。
Before entering the area, members of the medical team spent a whole day practicing wearing protective clothing and forming their own habits.
这件事情看似容易，实则占据队员们大量的时间与精力，上班需要提前一小时准备，下班所花时间加倍，至少两个小时。
It seems easy, but it takes up a lot of time and energy. It takes an hour to get ready for work and twice as much time to get off work.
值班后各自回房，算作自我隔离，互相保护。
Duty after the respective return to the room, as self-isolation, mutual protection.
广东省人民医院护士杜杨和黎诗欣还发明了适用于酒店房间的“三分钟三分区法”，将进门后的台阶算作污染区，脱去外套和鞋子，在半污染区洗手间洗手与冲凉，冲凉时间至少30分钟，全身干净后进入房间，那是最安全的清洁区。
Du Yang and Li Shixin, nurses at the Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital, also invented the "three-minute three-minute zone" for hotel rooms, which counts the steps behind the door as contaminated areas, removing coats and shoes, washing hands and showering in toilets in semi-polluted areas, showering for at least 30 minutes, and entering the room after being clean.
两个姑娘在门口贴了“温馨提示”，告诉清洁阿姨不用进入房间，补充物品放在门口，垃圾自行清出。
Two girls posted "warm tips" at the door, told aunt cleaning did not need to enter the room, add things on the door, garbage out.
杜杨还告诉南方周末记者，清洁阿姨是自除夕起自发来酒店做清扫的，两名清洁阿姨负责了医疗队全员所有房间。
Duyang also told Southern Weekend reporter, aunt cleaning is spontaneous since New Year's Eve to do cleaning, two cleaning aunt in charge of the full team room.
他们总能感受到来自陌生人的暖意。
They always feel the warmth from strangers.
医疗队落脚的酒店距离汉口医院步行约用二十分钟路。
The hotel where the medical team is staying is about 20 minutes' walk from Hankou Hospital.
医疗队到达当日，便有志愿者组织车辆接送。
On the day of the arrival of the medical team, volunteers organized transport.
近几日天气转暖，一些队员会选择步行上班。
Some members of the team have chosen to walk to work as the weather has turned warmer in recent days.
总会有人摇下车窗说，是不是上班?要不要送你过去?更别说那些“蒙面大侠”送来的餐食、口罩、防护服......这些瞬间都被医疗队的队员写进了《驰援日记》里。
Someone will roll down the window and say, 'Shall I take you to work or not? Not to mention the masked man's meals, masks, and protective clothing... these moments were written down in the Diary by the medical team.
4逆行者的自信队员个人公众号“肖大夫的笔记本”里，记录着广东医疗队在鄂的摸索过程。
4 Reverse walker's self-confident team member personal public name "Dr Xiao's notebook", records the Guangdong medical team groping in the Hubei.
1月26日：是值班第一天，南方医院重症医学科副主任医师曾振华作为首批值班医生，完成了近六个小时的工作。
January 26: On the first day of duty, Zhenhua, deputy director of intensive care at Southern Hospital, completed nearly six hours of work as the first doctor on duty.
他笑着提醒医生们，“穿上纸尿裤，夜里的班有八小时呢，真的有需要，不过就是走起路来挺沉的。
He smiled and reminded the doctors, "Put on your diapers. There are eight hours of work at night. You really need them, but they're heavy walking.
”1月28日：口罩、护目镜等装备紧缺，已向社会各界求援。
January 28: Mask, goggles and other equipment in short supply, the community has asked for help.
2月3日：物资问题差不多都已解决“。
3 February: the material problems have almost been resolved. "
清洁区污染区的布局，经郭队和感控专家的重新修整，变得更合理了。
Cleaning area of the layout of contaminated areas, by Guo team and sensory experts retouching, has become more reasonable.
“”病区墙壁上新贴了很多指示标识，查房取物也变得明了快捷了。
New signs have been posted on the walls of the affected areas, and house searches have become clearer and faster.
”“肖大夫的笔记本”的记录者是南方医院呼吸与医学科主治医师肖冠华，他告诉南方周末记者，记录工作片段是自己的喜好与习惯。
"Dr Xiao's notebook," written by Xiao Guanhua, director of respiratory and medical science at Southern Hospital, told Southern Weekend that it was his hobby and habit to record work clips.
值班结束后，他总是有意跟队员们多聊聊天，认为这是很好的减压方式，“见到这么多急性传染病的病人，病房现有条件可能也比较难以应付当前这种疫情，大家值班出来以后，会有很多心理层面的东西需要倾诉。
"With so many patients suffering from acute infectious diseases, the conditions in the wards may also be more difficult to cope with the current epidemic. When people are on duty, they have a lot of psychological things to talk about.
”“刚进入病区的第一天，冲击会比较大。
"" The first day we get into the area, it's going to be big.
”肖冠华说。
"said Xiao Guanhua.
有一个感染科的小姑娘，第一次走进半污染区做消毒任务时，突然害怕得大哭。
A little girl from the infection department burst into tears of fear as she walked into a semi-polluted area for the first time on a disinfection mission.
对于那些二十出头的医护人员来说，这是前线考验的第一关。
For those in their early 20s, this is the first test on the front line.
前方还有很多关。
There's a lot more ahead.
病房配备设施不完善，物资大量紧缺，管理流程失序，病人收治量过大，问题需要一个个解决。
Wards equipped with inadequate facilities, large material shortages, management process disorder, patient admission is too large, the problem needs to be solved one by one.
他们用了两三天摸情况，调整排班方案。
It took them two or three days to figure out how to adjust the schedule.
现在，每天早上都有固定的上级医生带组，查看固定一组病人。
Now, every morning, there is a fixed superior team of doctors to see and fix a group of patients.
“我只要查的话，我就管我这20个病人。
"All I have to do is look into it and I'll take care of my 20 patients
”司向解释，这样能保证治疗的连贯性，对病人的治疗思路也会比较统一。
This, the department explained, would ensure continuity of treatment and a more uniform approach to the treatment of patients.
17年前的SARS经验，对这支队伍来说非常重要。
The SARS experience 17 years ago was very important to the team.
队伍之中，郭亚兵、李利、史丽莎都是小汤山医护团队成员，曾经奋战在抗击SARS疫情的最前线。
Among the ranks, Guo Yabing, Li Li and Lisa are all members of the Xiaotangshan medical team who fought at the forefront of the fight against the SARS epidemic.
“你会觉得有一帮见过世面的人在领着你，信心一下子就提起来了。
"You feel as if you are being led by a group of people who have seen the world, and confidence is suddenly lifted up.
”肖冠华说。
"said Xiao Guanhua.
因此，广东医疗队能够很快开始工作，能够战胜恐惧，调整过来。
As a result, the Guangdong medical team was able to work quickly, overcome its fears and adjust.
“我们有很多领队和专家是经过SARS的，有一个医生、两个护士上过小汤山。
"We have a lot of group leaders and experts who have gone through SARS and a doctor and two nurses have been to Xiaotangshan.
我们知道怎么保护好自己。
We know how to protect ourselves.
”郭亚兵说，就算是在飓风中心，危险依然可防，“并不是说你进去就完蛋了，你防得好，它就没问题。
"Even in the middle of a hurricane, the danger is still there," says Guo. "It doesn't mean you're going to die when you go in.
”征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call for Southern Weekend is an open call for news leads for all readers on the front lines of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
广东医疗队援汉日记：带上SARS防治经验，进入武汉疫区。
Guangdong Medical Team to help Han Diary: Bring SARS prevention and treatment experience into Wuhan epidemic area.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "广东医疗队援汉日记：带上SARS防治经验，进入武汉疫区";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Guangdong Medical Unit's Han Diary: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
