那些在封城前离开武汉的人都去哪了？。
Where are all the people who left Wuhan before the closure of the city?
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
1 月 23 日凌晨两点，武汉发出通告，将于当天上午 10 时，关闭机场、火车站，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运也将暂停运营。
Wuhan announced on January 23 that it would close airports and railway stations at 10 a.m. on January 23 and suspend operations on city buses, subways, ferries and long-distance passenger transport.
26 日晚，武汉市长周先旺表示，” 因为春节和疫情的影响，目前有 500 多万人离开武汉，还有 900 万人留在城里。
More than five million people have left Wuhan and nine million remain in the city due to the Spring Festival and the outbreak, Zhou Xianwang said.
”第一财经的一篇文章指出，从大数据上来看，武汉作为外来人口流入大省，每年都有将近一半的人口离开这座城市过年，1 月 10 日至 1 月 22 日武汉封城之前，每天从武汉出发的人群中有 6 至 7 成的人前往了湖北省内的其他城市，其次是河南省、湖南省、安徽省、重庆市、江西省。
According to a report by First Finance, Wuhan, as a major province of immigration, left the city for the New Year every year. Before the city was closed on January 10 to 22, between 6 and 70 percent of the people leaving Wuhan went to other cities in Hubei Province, followed by Henan Province, Hunan Province, Anhui Province, Chongqing City and Jiangxi Province.
但大数据回答不了人们更想知道的答案，去哪了？见了谁？为什么走？又为什么来我的小区？不断有人发问，网络上，邻里间，声量汇聚，情绪复杂，人们相顾四望，目光最终落到楼门前的停车位上，从一排车牌里惶然寻找一个 “鄂” 字。
But big numbers don't answer the question that people want to know more about, where are they going? Who do they see? Why do they go? Why do they come to my community? People keep asking questions. People look around for a parking space in front of the building.
今年，每一起离开都不再被认为寻常，“离开武汉” 四个字似乎已经带有天然的道德瑕疵。
This year, each departure is no longer considered commonplace, and the words "leave Wuhan" seem to have a natural moral flaw.
离开的人成为了最现成的被告，一场又一场人民之间的小型传唤带着难以反驳的 “正义性” 被次第发动。
Those who left became the most ready-made defendants, and one small summons after another of the people was launched with an irrefutable "justice."
而对于每个微小的个体来说，被责问的离汉者和责问他们的人一样仓惶无措，在信息的下游，为了不溺水而仰起头，做出一时的决定。
For each tiny individual, the challenged estranged are as confused as the questioner, and behind the message, looking up and making a temporary decision not to drown.
我们采访了几位在封城之前 “逃离“ 武汉的人，在一些不典型的回答里，拼凑出了几段历时十几天的不典型经历。
We interviewed several people who had "fled" Wuhan before the closure of the city and, in some atypical responses, pieced together several atypical experiences spanning more than 10 days.
在官方声音难以被信任的时期，个人史和日记尤为珍贵，而这三位离汉者的自述，诚实地显现出灾难伊始的端倪。
Personal histories and diaries are especially valuable at a time when official voices are hardly to be trusted, and the stories of the three departees provide an honest glimpse of the beginning of the disaster.
以下是几位受访者的自述：“我的婆家在武汉周边的 8+1 城市圈（以武汉为中心，以 100 公里为半径的城市群落），在这些城市，谁家里还没有一个从武汉回来过年的。
The following are self-reported by several interviewees: "My mother-in-law is in an 8 + 1 urban neighborhood (Wuhan-centric, 100-kilometer radius) around Wuhan, where none of the families has yet returned from Wuhan to celebrate the New Year.
”我平时在温州从事外贸工作，曾在武汉上大学，因此自己和女儿的户口都得以落在武汉。
"I usually engaged in foreign trade work in Wenzhou, had been in Wuhan University, so his daughter and his household registration were able to fall in Wuhan.
19 号那天，我带着女儿从温州出发，计划去黄冈乡下的婆家过年，并在途径武汉时顺便给女儿办理医保卡，一切都照计划进行，一切也始于对真实疫情的无知。
On the 19th, I set out from Wenzhou with my daughter, planning to spend the New Year with my mother-in-law in the Huanggang countryside.
我按计划在 21 号上午抵达了武汉，那时开始听到一些关于肺炎的风声。
I arrived in Wuhan on the morning of the 21st as planned, when I began to hear some reports of pneumonia.
有金银潭的司机说，早在 18 号，武汉医院就已经爆满，需要排队 6-8 小时才能看上发热门诊，但与传闻相对照的，却是武汉街头的放松景象。
As early as the 18th Wuhan hospital was already full, requiring six to eight hours of queuing up to see a hot clinic, but the opposite was rumored to be a relaxing scene on the streets of Wuhan, said the driver, who has a gold and silver pool.
我记得，当时街上只有大约一半的人戴了口罩，机关政府和银行照常上班，机关门口有人在测量体温，银行没有，我们在银行排队给女儿办医保卡的时候，有工作人员送来一副对联。
I remember when only about half the people on the street were wearing masks, government and bank offices were going to work as usual, there was a temperature check at the gate, there was no bank, and we were queuing up at the bank to get a health care card for our daughter when a couplet arrived.
当时在银行排队办业务的人很多，我有种不好的直觉，于是放弃去办那张医保卡，带着孩子直接离开了。
There were so many people queuing up at the bank that I had a bad gut feeling, so I gave up the card and went straight away with the kids.
当天，两岁的女儿开始感冒发烧，我认为不是肺炎，也不敢带孩子去医院，自己买了布洛芬和奥斯他韦。
That day, the two-year-old daughter began to catch a fever, I do not think pneumonia, do not dare to take their children to the hospital, bought their own ibuprofen and Ostavir.
次日，武汉封城的前一天，女儿退烧了，我开车带孩子离开武汉，上了国道，驶向黄冈的婆婆家。
The next day, Wuhan, the day before the city, my daughter had a fever, I drove the children away from Wuhan, on national roads, to Huanggang mother-in-law's home.
现在回想，当时我得到的消息是病号没有儿童，因此认为女儿不是新冠。
In retrospect, I received the news that the patient had no children, so I didn't think my daughter was the new champion.
但面对排不完的队和住不进去的医院，哪怕有个人因为怀疑自己感染而逃离武汉，我同样觉得，TA 没有什么道德瑕疵。
But in the face of endless queues and inhospitable hospitals, I don't think there is any moral flaw in TA, even if one person has fled Wuhan because he suspects he is infected.
我现在可以说，谁都不是圣人。
I can now say that no one is a saint.
我的婆家在黄冈，这里属于以武汉为中心的 8+1 城市圈，身边不少同乡都在武汉送煤气、做家政，每年春节，大约四成的人家会迎来从武汉返回的家人。
My mother-in-law in Huanggang, which belongs to Wuhan as the center of the city circle 8 + 1, around a lot of fellow townsfolk in Wuhan to send gas, do home economics, every Spring Festival, about 40 percent of families will welcome back from Wuhan family.
早在 20 号钟南山院士发布人传人预警之前，已经有不少人踏上了回家的路，跟我们前后脚回家的，还有在武汉从事财务方面工作的姑姐。
As early as 20 Zhong Nan Shan academician issued the early warning, many people have set out on the way home, with us back and forth home, as well as in Wuhan engaged in financial work aunt.
回家之后，十四天闭门不出，村里的路被封了，快递进不来，口罩买不到，农村没有什么便利店，铺子的库存只剩下零食。
The village roads were blocked, couriers could not get in, masks could not be bought, there were no convenience stores in the countryside and only snacks were left in stock.
我们用土灶炒自家院子里的菜，摸鸡下的蛋，为了延长保质期，把肉和鱼都腌起来。
We cook our own yard with earthen stoves, touch eggs from chickens, and preserve meat and fish for a longer shelf life.
我在朋友圈里开了个苦涩的玩笑，说自己已经过上了 “网红李子柒的生活”。
I made a bitter joke in my friend's circle that I had lived "the life of the net red plum."
十天过去，家门口橘子树上发黑的陈年老橘子被吃光了。
Ten days passed, and the old tangerines blackened from the orange trees in front of my house were eaten up.
院子里的菜地和橘子树女儿在吃树上的老橘子我的娘家在孝感应城，同为武汉周边城市，自 24 号开始，那里的公交线路便暂停运营。
Vegetables and Orange Tree Daughter is eating old oranges on the tree My mother's house is filial in the city, also around Wuhan, where the bus line has been suspended since the 24th.
那里与我所在的黄冈市，位列湖北省确诊人数最多的第二、三名，严峻程度仅次于武汉，但医疗水平和公众意识却远远没有跟上。
The city of Huanggang, where I live, has the second and third highest number of confirmed cases in Hubei province, second only to Wuhan in severity.
娘家人告诉我，村里发烧了不去看的，确诊了没人消毒的，比比皆是。
Mother's family told me that the village fever did not go to see, confirmed that no one disinfected, everywhere.
比起武汉，它周边所辐射到的城市圈，好似处于公共话语中一个不可见的角落。
Compared with Wuhan, the city circle radiated around it seems to be in an invisible corner of public discourse.
日子过了这么久，我的情绪从忧心疫情，转移到了对未来生活的焦灼。
After such a long time, my mood from worrying about the epidemic, to the future life of anxiety.
房贷、孩子，都需要钱，我所在的企业 2 月 10 日开工，如果 3 月还不能回去，企业不会在当地重新招聘吗？1 月 19 号我回家过年的时候，根本没想到这场传染病会怎样改变我的生活，不过就算是现在，我也无法得知。
Mortgage loans, children, all need money, my business starts February 10, if not return in March, enterprises will not be able to re-recruit locally January 19 When I returned home for the New Year, I had no idea how the epidemic would change my life, but even now, I can't tell.
“大家都叫我赶紧回武汉，别传染别人，我也想回去。
"Everyone told me to hurry back to Wuhan, do not infect others, I also want to go back.
”现在回忆起来，在这场瘟疫泛滥开来之前，我也曾看到不少兆头。
In retrospect, I too had seen some signs before the plague had spread.
先是华南海鲜市场的关停，但我们被告知的理由是 “卫生不达标，要停业整顿”，接着是朋友圈开始流传一篇文章，说华南的关停实则是因为一种病毒，但又过了几天，有辟谣的消息传出，说写文章的人已经被抓了，接着，一位名叫王广发的医生说病毒可防可控，不用担心。
First, the South China seafood market was shut down, but we were told that "sanitation is substandard, we need to stop working." Then a group of friends started circulating an article saying that the shutdown in South China was actually due to a virus.
一波三折，我们还是放心了，按原定计划出游。
After much ado, we were at ease and went out as planned.
1 月 19 日，我和我爸跟着中国国际旅行团前往台湾，出发那天，武汉一切如常，我清楚地记得，整个机场没有人戴口罩。
On January 19, my father and I went to Taiwan with a Chinese international tour group. On the day of our departure, Wuhan was as usual.
到达台湾后的第二天还是第三天，有台湾媒体报道，那位声称肺炎可防可控的王广发医生已经被感染。
On the second or third day of his arrival in Taiwan, Taiwanese media reported that Dr. Wang Guangfa, who claimed that pneumonia was preventable, had been infected.
我们本应在台湾玩十天，直到 23 号从武汉传来封城的消息，一行人才意识到疫情的严重。
We were supposed to be in Taiwan for ten days until the news that the city had been sealed off from Wuhan on the 23rd.
25 号，一名在武汉做生意的台湾商人确诊为新冠，台湾发出指令，立刻遣返所有来自湖北的旅行团。
25, a Taiwan businessman doing business in Wuhan confirmed the new crown, Taiwan issued an order to immediately repatriate all tour groups from Hubei.
26 日，由于武汉封城，台湾又不让我们停留，导游买了最早离开的那班飞机，飞往上海浦东机场。
On May 26, due to the closure of Wuhan, Taiwan did not allow us to stay, the guide bought the earliest flight to Shanghai Pudong Airport.
导游告诉我们，旅行团只负责将我们送回大陆，至于送往哪里，落地之后要去哪，他们没法再管。
Tour guides tell us that tours are only responsible for sending us back to the mainland. They can no longer control where to send us and where to land.
落地浦东机场，机场的工作人员将我们对接给了上海防疫局，后者将我们统一隔离到上海南汇嘴观海公园酒店，说要在上海住满十四天后，才能离开。
Landing Pudong Airport, the airport staff docked us to the Shanghai Anti-epidemic Bureau, which isolated us to the Nanhui Zui Guanhai Park Hotel in Shanghai and said they would stay 14 days before we left.
本来去台湾旅行的我们只带了短袖短裤，没有暖气，但所幸被子管够。
We had to travel to Taiwan with short-sleeved shorts, no heating, but fortunately enough quilt tube.
2 月 2 日，工作人员突然给我发了一条微信，说要实行新的隔离标准，不必在上海隔离够十四天，只要从离开武汉那天（19 号）算起十四天不发病，就可以离开隔离点。
On 2 February, the staff suddenly sent me a message stating that a new isolation standard would not be necessary for a period of 14 days in Shanghai, as long as it remained in place for 14 days from the date of departure from Wuhan (No. 19).
按照新的标准，我早就已经满足解除隔离的条件，因此次日中午 12 点前必须离开酒店。
By the new criteria, I had already met the conditions for lifting the isolation, so I had to leave the hotel by 12 noon the next day.
我猜想可能上海的疑似病例也在上升，导致隔离房间紧张，对方也一直在敦促我们赶紧把房间让给有需要的人。
I suspect the number of suspected cases is also on the rise in Shanghai, causing tension in the isolated rooms, and the other side has been urging us to give up the rooms to those in need.
可我们能去哪呢？武汉封城，外面的酒店拒绝接受武汉人，工作人员只是说：既然回不了武汉，那你们可以去其他地方。
Wuhan, the hotel outside refused to accept Wuhan, the staff just said: since you can not go back to Wuhan, then you can go to other places.
有同乡在微信群里问，如果隔离到一半就放我们出去自由流浪，那么隔离还有什么意义？我在微信群中放出昆明直接与武汉对接，帮助滞留武汉籍旅客反乡的政策，问询为什么上海做不到，结果是被移出群聊。
Some fellow countrymen asked in the micro-letter group, if we were to be set free to roam about half way, what was the point of segregation? I released Kunming's policy of docking directly with Wuhan to help the stranded Wuhan travellers, asking why Shanghai could not do so, and was eventually moved out of the group.
我上微博反映问题，不少网友说，我本来就不该出来，更不该落地上海。
I on Weibo to reflect the problem, many netizens said, I should not have come out, but should not land in Shanghai.
我能理解，不透明的信息、一刀切的政策，最后总是要具体的民众付出 “必要的代价”，只是这次轮到了我买单。
I understand that opaque information, one-size-fits-all policies, and ultimately a "necessary price" to pay for specific citizens, is only my turn to pay the bill.
2 月 5 日，工作人员包了一辆公交车，将我们送到了最近的滴水湖地铁站。
On 5 February, staff chartered a bus and took us to the nearest dripping lake subway station.
我们坐了两个半小时的地铁到虹桥火车站，先坐火车，再坐黑车。
We took the two-and-a-half-hour subway to Hongqiao Railway Station, first by train, then by black car.
黑车上碰上不少武汉老乡，大多都是在外地被隔离后辗转回家的，十分亲切。
Black cars run into a lot of Wuhan Laoxiang, most of them are isolated in the field after tossing home, very kind.
“我那时才意识到，信息泄露这种事也发生在我头上了。
"I realized then that the leak was happening to me, too.
”我在武汉工作。
I work in Wuhan.
1 月 20 号单位放假了，第二天正好有朋友自驾回老家信阳，跟我顺路，就一起回来了。
Unit 20 holiday, the next day just a friend driving home Xinyang, with me on the way back together.
我们都没有料想到后来会演变成这种局面。
None of us expected this to happen later.
回来的四五天后，听我爸说，我们村儿的几个武汉回来的，已经被村里登记在册。
Four or five days after I came back, I heard from my father that some of the Wuhan residents of our village had been registered in the village.
在我在家自我隔离的十四天内（1 月 21 日到 2 月 5 日），村里上门过两次，核实信息，询问有无外出，类似家访，之后变成来电，还说县里市里也会打电话。
Within 14 days of my isolation at home (21 January to 5 February), the village visited the house twice, checking information, asking if there was any going on, like a home visit, then turning into a phone call, and saying that the county would also call.
但从那以后，除了县里市里，还有不明电话打进，问东问西，“是 XX 么？武汉工作？啥时候回来的？” 开始我没有在意，后来跟从武汉返回湖南、山东、四川等地的同事们谈起，才知道他们的个人电话、身份证和小区家庭住址之类的信息也被泄露。
But since then, in addition to the county, there are unknown phone calls into the West, "XX? Wuhan work? When to return?" I did not care, and then returned to Hunan, Shandong, Sichuan and other places with Wuhan colleagues, only to learn that their personal telephone, identity cards and home address in the community was leaked.
一位同事回家后，就被公布在了小区的业主群，他默不作声地看着自己被谈论，半晌，突然有人问，“他们一家人有在群里面没？”我这才意识到，这种事情也发生在我头上了，但源头在哪，我不好说，在我们这，口耳相传太快了。
A co-worker came home, was posted in the community of owners, he quietly watched himself being talked about, late, suddenly someone asked, "their family in the group?" I realized that this happened to me, but where the source, I do not say, in our word of mouth too soon.
同事小区业主群的聊天记录另一位同事的信息被整理在了一张公开的信息表上所幸的是，到了年后，骚扰电话就没有几通了。
Colleagues' chat logs Another colleague's information was posted on a public spreadsheet. Fortunately, by the end of the year, harassment calls were numbered.
而且我家在农村，父母是农民，柴米油盐都不缺。
And my family is in the countryside, parents are farmers, no shortage of diesel oil and salt.
要说不便，就是原本打算过完年就返回武汉，现在衣服没带，电脑没带，公司通知 17 号回武汉上班，不知道我到时候情况怎样。
If the inconvenience, is originally intended to return to Wuhan after the end of the year, now no clothes, no computer, the company informed 17 back to work in Wuhan, I do not know how I will then.
困难的是带我自驾回来的朋友，他是武汉的公务员，单位催他回去，开函给县里各部门让放行，但街道把他停在自家门口的车开走了，说是要集中收管，他去收管地看了，大部分都是鄂字头的车，现在交通都封了，他的确是哪里都去不了了。
The difficulty is to bring me back from driving a friend, he is Wuhan civil servant, unit urged him to go back, write to the county departments to let the release, but the street parked in front of his car, said to be centralized, he looked at the custody of most of the car, now the traffic is blocked, he really can not go anywhere.
疫情刚刚爆发之时，有人用 “逃出来的武汉人”一以蔽之离开武汉的 500 万人。
When the outbreak first broke out, some people used the "escape Wuhan people" to leave Wuhan to leave the five million people.
“武汉人”脱离了一个具体的所指、一个具体的形象，同时成为了 “瘟疫”的载体和别称。
"Wuhan people" separated from a specific reference, a specific image, and at the same time became the "plague" carrier and nickname.
当人不被看作人，只被看作 “病”的时候，一切不公正都能变得合理。
All injustice can be justified when man is not regarded as man, but as "sick."
我们必须与 “病” 做出切割，把它进行隔离，就像把垃圾站归置在小区的角落 —— 这是为了保持无菌和洁净的合理处理。
We have to cut it off from the sick, isolate it, and put the garbage station in the corner of the neighborhood - to keep it sterile and clean.
许知远在《疫病蔓延时的旅行：马六甲的低语》中说，灾难中，基层必定会使用 “习惯动作”，使用红缨枪、红袖箍、高音喇叭和加粗标语这类充满动员力和穿透力的东西，但同时，它也粗暴，缺乏弹性，为行动而行动，这是一个零和博弈社会的心理折射。
Xu Zhi, who traveled long before the epidemic spread: Malacca's whispers, said that in a disaster the grass roots must use such motivational and penetrating substances as tassels (red tassels), red sleeves hoop, loudspeakers and thick slogans, but at the same time it is violent, inelastic and acts for action, which is the psychological refraction of a zero-sum game society.
于是，在零和一之间，漂流在外的武汉人、患有其他疾病亟待治疗的人、买不到口罩的老人，被隔离、驱赶、无视、消灭，被看作无法取整的人，四舍五入地成了零。
Thus, between zero and one, Wuhan people drifting away, people suffering from other diseases in urgent need of treatment, elderly people unable to buy masks, are isolated, driven away, ignored, eliminated, regarded as irretrievable, rounded to zero.
* 图片皆由受访者提供，头图来自：Wikimedia Commons编辑：Alexwood在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
* The pictures are from Wikimedia Commons editor: Were you forced to change your habits, what new relationships you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections did you get? If you had any ideas to share, send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
虽然叫 “武汉呼叫”，但疫情影响的是我们所有人。
Although it is called Wuhan Call, the epidemic affects us all.
无论你来自哪里，身在哪里，我们都想听到你的故事。
Wherever you come from, wherever you are, we want to hear your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些在封城前离开武汉的人都去哪了？。
Where are all the people who left Wuhan before the closure of the city?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "那些在封城前离开武汉的人都去哪了？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Where did all those who left Wuhan before the siege?;
var msg_desc = "在这些离开武汉者的自述里，显现出了灾难伊始的端倪。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; in the accounts of those who left Wuhan, the first hint of disaster began.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '封城后，我拍下了城内人们努力维系的平凡生活',。
At the end of the city, I photographed the everyday life and prosperity that its people fought to keep.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '隔离记（一）',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '在疫情的中心，既要蒸好一锅馒头，也要为爱情争一口气',。
At the heart of the epidemic, steam a pot of steamed bread and at the same time AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
