穿越疫情，一个 “镖师” 的 48 小时。
Through the outbreak, a "darts man" for 48 hours.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
嘉秋上一条关于自己的朋友圈，还定位在新年伊始的北极圈：冰川被雪覆盖，深蓝色的浪涛拍打着甲板，有种凄切的声响。
One of her circle of friends is set for the Arctic Circle at the start of the new year: glaciers are covered with snow, dark blue waves slap on the deck, making a mournful noise.
嘉秋写道，“船长告诉我，今天对挪威人来说其实是个好天气。
"The captain told me that it was a fine day for Norwegians.
Life is hard，life is always hard. 生活总是困苦，唯有勇敢面对。
Life is hard and you have to face it.
在新的一年，我希望所有人都能乘风破浪，把握生命中的快乐。
In the new year, I hope everyone can take advantage of the wind and waves, grasp the happiness of life.
”那之后没多久，他收到一条微信，冰冷的天气里一下子全身燥热紧张起来，那是关于国内疫情的消息。
Not long after that, he received a message that the cold weather had turned hot and hot, and that was the news of the outbreak in his country.
对于一个媒体人，这是条报道的线索，但他决定这次不做一个媒体人 —— 这条朋友的求助，成了他直接参与捐赠和救援行动的一个 “任务“。
For a media man, this was the clue to the story, but he decided not to be a media man this time - the friend's help became a "task" for his direct involvement in the donation and rescue operations.
第二天，他启程回国。
The next day he set out for home.
他和团队伙伴要作为独立 “观察员” 和组织者，协助把一车救援物资送到武汉。
He and his team are to act as independent "observers" and organizers to help deliver a load of relief supplies to Wuhan.
据他介绍，这是武汉封城后最早成功抵达的一批医疗物资中的一份。
According to him, this is Wuhan after the first successful arrival of a batch of medical supplies.
1 月 26 日，距离钟南山院士证实 “人传人” 已经过去了 5 天，距离武汉市在深夜发布 “交通封城” 第一号通告已经过去三天。
Five days have passed since the announcement of the city's "Traffic Closure" notice in the middle of the night, three days after academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed on January 26.
一切仍不明晰，甚至愈发迷雾重重：医疗防控物资缺口究竟有多大？当前武汉医院最缺的物资是什么，防护用品还是医疗设备？有哪些捐赠渠道，怎样实施有组织地高效捐赠？民间援助要不要与官方合作，是全权交给红会还是监督分发入库？1 月 26 日嘉秋接到朋友的消息时，一方是在江苏急需抵达武汉的医疗物资，一方是湖北超负荷运转的各医院和医护工作者，中间是严密繁复的手续、流逝的时间和需要跨越的两千里。
What is the shortage of medical supplies, protective equipment or medical equipment? What are the channels of donation and how to carry out organized and efficient donation? When Jiachu heard from his friends on January 26, he was in urgent need of medical supplies to reach Wuhan in Jiangsu Province.
怎么才能让这批物资尽快到达湖北？“有多年一线捐赠经验，凡事身体力行，解决问题的能力强”，嘉秋这样形容自己和团队 “真实行动联盟” 的伙伴。
"With years of experience in first-line donation, she said," she is a strong problem solver, "describing herself and her team as partners in the" Real Action Alliance. "
实时动态上确诊和死亡的数字不断增加，嘉秋和团队将任务分解为时间线上紧绷的纷繁步骤：调研和沟通医院需求、确认受赠医院、手续办理、通行证办理、与红会协调对接、运输、抵达医院入库、监测后期分配。
As the number of diagnoses and deaths on a real-time and dynamic basis continues to increase, Rachel and the team break down the task into tight time lines: research and communication of hospital needs, identification of grantee hospitals, formalization, pass processing, coordination with ICRC, transportation, arrival at the hospital for warehousing and monitoring of late distribution.
物资上路后要穿越 2238 公里，嘉秋找到了一个适合自己角色的称呼：“镖师”。
After the goods hit the road to cross 2238 kilometers, Jiacho found a suitable name for their role: "darts".
1 月 27 日回到北京，29 日坐上从北京发往合肥的列车，在合肥南站空无一人的广场角落，嘉秋骑上视野范围内唯一的一辆共享单车，去与两名司机师傅会合。
January 27 returned to Beijing, 29 from Beijing to Hefei on the train, in the corner of Hefei South Station empty square, Jiacho riding the vision of the only shared bike, to meet two drivers.
师傅们从江苏常州开来一辆长 7 米 6 的货车，里面是荆州市胸科医院、武汉同济医院、建设中的火神山医院、武汉市肺科医院四所医院的急需物资：200 台医用压缩雾化机和 20000 套简易喷雾器。
From Changzhou, Jiangsu, teachers brought a 7-metre-long lorry with urgently needed supplies from Jingzhou Chest Hospital, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Huoshen Mountain Hospital under construction and Wuhan Lung Hospital.
“大型货车不能开进核心区，没有出租车也没有公交车，还好有一辆共享单车。
"Large trucks can't drive into the core area, there's no taxis or buses, and there's a shared bike.
”（全部图片来自嘉秋）雾化吸入治疗作为呼吸系统疾病治疗方法中重要有效的一种，常作为临床辅助治疗被积极采用。
Aerosol inhalation therapy, an important and effective treatment for respiratory diseases, is often used as a clinical adjunct to treatment.
《第五版新型肺炎诊疗方案》中提到，目前没有确认有效的抗病毒治疗方案，建议可试用 a- 干扰素雾化吸入；同时，雾化吸入化痰药能够帮助病人排痰，改善病人憋气、喘息等临床症状。
The 5th edition of the New Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program mentions that no effective antiviral treatment regimen has been identified and that a-IFN aerosol inhalation is recommended; at the same time, inhaled aerosolized phlegm can help patients expel phlegm and improve clinical symptoms such as suffocation and wheezing.
在与新冠肺炎争夺治疗时间，减少病人临床合并症发生机率上，雾化吸入治疗都有一定作用。
Aerosol inhalation therapy plays a role in the competition for treatment time with Newcrown Pneumonia and in reducing the incidence of clinical complications.
也就是说，这批物资能给一线治疗带去供极为需要的战力支援。
That is to say, the supplies can bring much-needed combat support to first-line care.
沪蓉高速再到沪渝高速，从合肥到武汉的路上，夜晚黝黑深不见底。
Shanghai-Chongqing Expressway, from Hefei to Wuhan on the road, the night dark bottomless.
货车的悬挂钢板无从避震，从上下颠簸的驾驶室向外望，“防疫防范、抗击肺炎” 的标语飞快掠过，却几乎没有一辆车。
The suspended steel plate of the lorry had no shock absorber, and the sign "Preventive measures against pneumonia" flashed across the cab from above and below, but there was hardly a car.
从冰雪覆盖的世界尽头，到充满危机感的内陆黑夜，嘉秋放空的时候想想这两三天的的视野变化也觉得不太真实，但大部分时候，“脑子里只有一个念头，赶紧把这件事高效地完成。
From the end of the ice-covered world to the treacherous inland night, it seemed unreal to think of these two or three days of field changes, but most of the time, there was only one thought in my mind, to get it done efficiently.
”高速公路上的莽莽黑夜刚见面的时候，嘉秋感觉到两个司机师傅的担心，就给他们普及了一些关于肺炎的知识，并嘱咐他们到了地方不要泄露自己 “媒体人” 的身份。
When they first met on the freeway in the thick of the night, Jiacho, sensing the fears of the two drivers, gave them some information about pneumonia and told them not to divulge their identity as "media people."
一路上，他们全员带着口罩、防护面具和手套，中午在服务区吃了一点炒饭，晚上在另一个服务区吃了一桶方便面。
They wore masks, face protection and gloves, ate a little fried rice in the service area at noon and a bucket of instant noodles in another service area at night.
“但我能感受到师傅们对此行很自豪，他们前一天就在朋友圈发了路线。
"But I can feel the teachers are very proud of the trip, which they distributed among their friends the day before.
” 嘉秋说。
'she said.
货车不歇地行驶，两位司机师傅轮流开车。
The lorry kept going and the two drivers took turns driving.
在驾驶室和车厢连接处的狭窄后排坐上，司机在摇晃中短暂休息，嘉秋则在副驾驶上度过了无眠的一夜。
The driver took a short rest in the narrow back of the cab-compartment junction, while Jiachu spent a sleepless night on the copilot.
1 月 30 日凌晨，天刚刚拂晓，货车终于抵达红十字会仓库 —— 武汉国际博览中心 A 馆。
In the early morning hours of January 30, just before dawn, the lorry finally arrived at the Red Cross warehouse, Wuhan International Expo Center A.
清点、转运系统登记、卸货、开发票办手续、开出城条，武汉红十字会的基层工作者连轴转地工作着。
Inventory, transit system registration, unloading, invoicing procedures, out of the city, Wuhan Red Cross workers at the grass-roots level work in tandem.
工作人员面对的是从全国汇聚到武汉的各类物资，是日夜不休的对接、检查是否合规、统计和归档。
The workers are faced with all kinds of materials coming from all over the country to Wuhan. They are docking day and night, checking compliance, statistics and archiving.
在入库搬运时，嘉秋留意到基层人员佩戴的口罩，“他们的口罩都太破了，非常薄，根本没有用。
"Their masks are too worn, too thin to be of any use," he said, noting the masks worn at the grass-roots level.
我问他们为什么不戴好点的口罩，他们说，好口罩要留给医护人员，他们才是最需要的。
I asked them why they didn't wear better masks. They said that good masks should be reserved for paramedics, and they were the ones who needed them most.
”“这是我看到的真实的一线”，嘉秋说。
"This is the real line I see," said Jiacho.
连日来，红会深陷舆论漩涡，“大家可以质疑红会工作的治理水平落后和管理运转低效，但基层的工作人员真的太苦了，他们太苦了”。
For days, the Red Cross has been caught in a public-opinion swirl: "One can question the poor governance and inefficient management of the work of the ICRC, but the staff at the grass-roots level are really suffering, they are too bitter."
嘉秋非常着急，非常严肃地告诉他们，“你们是物资集中的转运者，是中枢枢纽，如果你被传染，整个捐赠体系都有可能崩塌”。
"You are a centralized transporter, a hub hub, and if you are infected, the whole donation system could collapse," she told them very seriously.
后来嘉秋注意到，有人换了好一点的口罩，但不断驶入的车流中，帮忙卸货的几个基层人员戴的还是不合规的口罩。
Later, she noticed that someone had changed a better mask, but several of the people at the grass-roots level who helped unload the vehicles were still wearing irregular masks.
物资抵达红十字会仓库在仓库和工作间往返的卸货过程中，嘉秋沿路观察到：捐助物资的质量参差不齐，口罩很大数量都不符合标准，还有一些闻所未闻的保健品大量堆积。
Arriving at the Red Cross warehouse to unload the goods to and from the warehouse and the workshop, Rachel observed along the road that the quality of the donated materials was uneven, that a large number of masks were substandard and that there was a huge backlog of unheard-of health products.
“我也不知道在运力和行政资源有限的情况下，这些不符合标准的物资最后会如何处理，这到底都是大家的心意。
"I don't know how these substandard materials will end up being handled with limited capacity and administrative resources," he said.
”第一站的全部交货工作用时 1 小时 40 分钟。
The full delivery at the first stop took one hour and 40 minutes.
100 台压缩雾化机和 10000 套简易喷雾器由武汉红十字会顺利接收，其中两成将由红会定向运往同济医院，暂定剩下货物红十字会将交由指挥部保管。
Of the 100 compressed atomizers and 10,000 improvised aerosol dispensers successfully received by the Wuhan Red Cross, 20 per cent will be directed by ICRC to Tongji Hospital, leaving the cargo temporarily in the custody of the headquarters of the Red Cross.
货车继续出发。
The van continued its journey.
四小时后，60 台压缩雾化机和 6000 套简易喷雾器运抵荆州，经红十字会和疾控中心确认，直接向荆州胸科医院交付完成。
Four hours later, 60 compressed atomizer and 6000 simple aerosol dispensers arrived in Jingzhou, confirmed by the Red Cross and CDC, and delivered directly to Jingzhou Chest Hospital.
第二站用时 2 小时。
The second stop took two hours.
荆州胸科医院表示，雾化装置是医院急需的医疗用品，会根据疫情发展情况在荆州市各医院间进行调配。
Jingzhou Chest Hospital said that the atomization device is urgently needed hospital medical supplies, according to the development of the epidemic situation in Jingzhou hospitals among the deployment.
下午 6 点，货车抵达武汉火神山医院附近，因道路拥堵（当日有工地冲突），而且火神山仓库接近满额，嘉秋经过红会同意，改变计划将剩下的 40 台压缩雾化机和 4000 套简易喷雾器送回武汉红会第二临时仓库。
At 6: 00 pm, the lorry arrived near Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital. As the road became congested (there was a site clash on that day) and the fire god mountain warehouse approached full capacity, Ka Qiu changed plans to return the remaining 40 compressed atomizer and 4000 sets of aerosol sprayers to Wuhan Red Cross temporary warehouse.
最后阶段的卸货、清点、修改手续和拍摄记录等工作用时 2 小时，这时的红会仓库比起上午更加拥挤。
The final stages of unloading, counting, modifying procedures and recording took two hours, when the Red Cross warehouse was more crowded than in the morning.
在荆州胸科医院，院长，医生，护士们，所有人都在帮忙搬运物资。
At Jingzhou Chest Hospital, the deans, doctors, nurses, and all of them were helping to move supplies.
1 月 31 日凌晨，顺利卸掉所有物资的一行人仍无法松懈，应激的紧张感褪去，疲惫和恐惧无声涌现。
In the early morning hours of 31 January, the line of people who unloaded all their belongings was unable to relax, the stress subsided and fatigue and fear emerged in silence.
能不能顺利出城？自己是否被感染？是否会被隔离 ？两位司机师傅就这些忧虑和嘉秋讨论了很久。
Will they make it out of town? Are they infected? Will they be isolated? The two drivers have been discussing these concerns with Rachel for a long time.
为减少感染的可能，他们没有留宿，决定连夜驶出湖北，到家后主动上报，启动隔离。
In order to reduce the risk of infection, they did not stay overnight, decided to drive out of Hubei, after the initiative to report to the isolation.
如果说去程是势在必得，返程则有些听天由命。
If the journey is inevitable, the return journey is somewhat resigned.
虽然援助物资入湖北的时候高速费全免，出来的时候嘉秋的车还是被收了七百多的过路费。
Although the aid was free of charge when entering Hubei, Jiacho's car was still charged more than 700 tolls when it came out.
货车最终在江苏金坛高速路出口被拦下。
The truck was eventually stopped at the exit of Jiangsu Jintan Expressway.
考虑再三，他们选择先回到常州市区，之后再返回属地。
After much deliberation, they chose to return to Changzhou before returning to the territory.
2 月 1 日，嘉秋回到北京并开始自我隔离（他的自我隔离日记将于这周六在 “BIE别的” 上线）。
On February 1, she returned to Beijing and began isolating herself (his self-imposed diary will go online in "BIE elsewhere" on Saturday).
回程路上需要 “回血” 的司机师傅48 小时的 “押送” 结束，但 “镖师” 的工作没有停止。
The 48-hour "escort" by a driver who needed "blood return" on the way home did not stop.
作为此行的组织者和观察员，嘉秋对红十字会后期分配和物资转运情况做了远程跟踪。
As organizer and observer of the trip, Jiacho conducted remote tracking of Red Cross late distributions and material transfers.
1 月 31 日，压缩雾化机 20 台及喷雾器 2000 套（儿童）已由武汉红会送抵武汉同济医院（光谷）并入库。
On January 31, 20 compressed atomizer and 2000 aerosol dispensers (children) were sent by Wuhan Red Cross Society to Wuhan Tongji Hospital (Guanggu) and stored.
同日，压缩雾化机 40 台，简易喷雾器 4000 套（成人）已由武汉红会送抵武汉火神山医院临时仓库。
On the same day, 40 compressed atomizer, 4000 sets of simple sprayer (adults) have been sent by Wuhan Red Cross to Wuhan fire god mountain hospital temporary warehouse.
2 月 1 日，全部剩余物资 —— 压缩雾化机 80 台及简易喷雾器 8000 套已由武汉红会送抵武汉肺科医院并入库。
On February 1, all the remaining materials, 80 compressed atomizer and 8,000 simple aerosol dispensers, were delivered to Wuhan Lung Hospital and stored by Wuhan Red Cross Society.
关于民间的捐赠和救援行为遇到的种种阻碍，嘉秋这样认为：“民间组织和 zf 需要对话渠道，需要一个统一的信息交换平台，和公认的议事和行动法则。
"Civil society organizations and ZF need channels of dialogue, a unified information exchange platform, and accepted rules of procedure and action," she said of the obstacles to private giving and rescue.
官方需要让渡一些权力，民间组织者也需要重拾信任，主动和官方沟通。
Officials need to cede some power, and civil-society organizers need to regain trust and reach out to the authorities.
““问责理性、沟通理性、决策理性，只有理性才能做事，才能减少社会资源的浪费。
"" Accountability, rational communication, rational decision-making, only reason can do things, can reduce the waste of social resources.
”除了理性，还需要经验，“有捐赠经验的人要尽可能分享经验，不要让大家走弯路，” 他对于自己的经验也知无不言、来者不拒。
"In addition to reason, experience is needed." People with experience to donate should share their experiences as much as possible and not allow others to take detours, "he said of his own experience.
自我隔离的几天里他天天在床上办公、回信息、写文章、做监测，感觉比平时还忙。
He spent days in isolation, working in bed, answering messages, writing articles and monitoring, feeling busier than usual.
目前，嘉秋所在的 “真实行动联盟” 观察团正通过 “常爱通道” 集中筹措第二批物资：用于确诊的新型试剂盒。
At present, Jiacho's "Real Action Coalition" observer mission is focusing on raising a second batch of supplies through the "Everlasting Channel": a new kit for diagnosis.
湖北省已实行检测试剂盒先试用后申报的政策，嘉秋和团队也请了多位跨国专家协助检验试剂盒功效，如果质量确实可靠，将与当地协调部门沟通，推动社区接收，然后寻找最好的方式分发。
Hubei Province has implemented the policy of testing kit first and then declare it, and Jiachuo and the team have hired many multinational experts to help test the efficacy of the kit. If the quality is reliable, they will communicate with the local coordinating department to promote acceptance by the community and then find the best way to distribute it.
同时，观察团召集了一批国内公共卫生和社会治理方面的专家，在与美国和印度的专家实时研究和讨论防疫问题，向专业机构提供策略建议，并推动中科院心理所远程心理协助与前线的对接。
At the same time, the Mission brought together a team of national experts in public health and social governance to study and discuss epidemic prevention issues in real time with experts from the United States and India, to provide strategic advice to professional bodies and to facilitate the interface between remote psychological assistance from the Institute of Psychology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the front line.
从江苏回北京的路上，嘉秋又看到雪。
From Jiangsu back to Beijing, Jiacho saw snow again.
飞驰的杨树之间偶尔闪过几户人家，积雪在红色砖瓦屋顶上迟迟未化。
Occasionally several families flashed by among the flying poplar trees, the snow lingering on the red brick roofs.
“立春” 已经过去好几天了，“雨水” 时节来的时候，他的自我隔离也正好结束。
"Li Chun" has been a few days, "rain" when the time came, his self-isolation just ended.
在那之前，他不会只是等着。
Until then, he won't just wait.
// 作者：洋流，Alexwood在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Author: Ocean Stream, Is Alexwood Forced to Change Your Life Habits, What New Relationships You Have Made with People Around You, What Observations and Thoughts Have You Got Any Ideas to Share If you have any ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
虽然叫 “武汉呼叫”，但疫情影响的是我们所有人。
Although it is called Wuhan Call, the epidemic affects us all.
无论你来自哪里，身在哪里，我们都想听到你的故事。
Wherever you come from, wherever you are, we want to hear your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
穿越疫情，一个 “镖师” 的 48 小时。
Through the outbreak, a "darts man" for 48 hours.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "穿越疫情，一个 “镖师” 的 48 小时";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; across the epidemic, at least 48 hours with a "darts man";
var msg_desc = "“立春” 已经过去好几天了，“雨水” 时节来的时候，他的自我隔离也正好结束。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
在那之前，他不会只是等着。
Until then, he won't just wait.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '封城后无药可吃的慢性病人，承担着猝死的风险',。
A chronically ill man with no medicine to eat after the siege carried with it the risk of sudden death.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了',。
As a foreign student at home, I feared I had dropped out of service at & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
