封城后无药可吃的慢性病人，承担着猝死的风险。
People with chronic diseases who have no medicine to eat after sealing the city bear the risk of sudden death.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
1 月 31 日下午，陈一（化名）在朋友圈发布了求药信息 —— 安闲拉莫三嗪片。
On the afternoon of January 31, Chen Yi (not his real name) released a drug-seeking message in a group of friends - a placebo lamotriazine tablet.
自从去年确诊为反射性癫痫综合症病人以来，陈一必须每天服用这种药。
Chen has had to take the drug daily since he was diagnosed with reflexive epileptic syndrome last year.
这时，她手里的药仅够继续服用三天，而封城结束似乎仍遥遥无期。
By this time, she had just enough medicine to last three days, and the end of the siege seemed remote.
如果断药，前期的药物治疗将功亏一篑，随时有全面性发作的危险，特殊情况下还可能猝死。
If discontinued, early-stage drug treatment will fall short, with the risk of a full-blown attack and, in exceptional cases, sudden death.
我们采访了陈一，她从发现药不够，到线上求药、多方打听，经历了漫长的焦虑和恐惧。
We interviewed Chen Yiyi, who had experienced a long period of anxiety and fear when she found that she was short of medicine and went online to seek medicine and ask questions.
幸运的是，最终她拿到了药物。
Luckily, she finally got the medicine.
而像她这样的慢性病人还有很多。
And there are plenty of chronic diseases like hers.
封城情况下，有陈一这样幸运的人，从亲戚朋友的帮助下拿到所需的药物；有人花一天的时间，走访医院和相关部门，开出通行证，驱车去外地拿药；还有人迫于疫情的严峻形势，决定暂时放弃求药，即使不清楚断药将会带来何种风险。
In the case of the closure of the city, such a lucky person as Chen Yiyi received the required medicines with the help of relatives and friends; someone spent a day visiting hospitals and related departments, issuing laissez-passer and driving to other places to get medicine; and others, forced by the dire situation of the outbreak, decided to temporarily abandon their medication, even though it was not clear what the risks would be.
以下是笔者根据受访者口述整理的故事。
The following is a story based on the oral testimony of the interviewee.
21 号中午，原本是我们公司准备开年会的日期。
At noon on the 21st, it was supposed to be the opening day of our company.
我带着五位同事准备了舞蹈节目，已经排练了十天。
I prepared the dance with five of my colleagues, and I've been rehearsing it for ten days.
21 号早上，我们在化妆室等化妆，我突然接到领导电话：“公司已有两人确诊，2 人疑似感染，年会取消，你们赶紧回家。
On the morning of the 21st, while we were waiting for makeup in the dressing room, I got a call from the leader: "The company has two people diagnosed, two people are suspected of infection, the annual meeting cancelled, you hurry home.
” 我当时第一个想法是为年会排练的节目功亏一篑了，有点不甘心，觉得对不起辛苦付出的同事，但最后觉得 “还是命重要”，就买了当天的票回去。
My first thought was that I had fallen short of what I was rehearsing for the annual meeting. I was a bit unhappy with my hard-working colleagues, but decided that "life was important" and bought tickets for the day back.
我家在湖北省孝感市云梦县，从汉口火车站到云梦站只需要 38 分钟。
My family in Xiaoyan City, Hubei Province Yunmeng County, from Hankou Railway Station to Yunmeng Station only 38 minutes.
到武汉站的时候是晚上六点半，人很多，车站已经启用了红外热像监控，只有极个别的人没戴口罩。
At Wuhan Station, it was 6: 30 p.m., there were many people, the station has been activated infrared thermography monitoring, only a few people do not wear masks.
回家的车上，大家看起来都很紧张。
On the way home, everyone looked nervous.
第二天一觉醒来，我从朋友圈和微博看到新闻，感受到疫情的严重性，决定 23 号和爸妈一起去买生活必备物资，之后开始禁足。
As soon as I woke up the next day, I saw the news from friends and Weibo, felt the severity of the epidemic, decided to go shopping with my parents on July 23, and then began to ban my feet.
29 号，云梦封城了。
Twenty-nine, Yunmeng's closed.
在家基本上每天刷微博，把微博看到的物资对接信息发到朋友圈里，这么过到大年初六。
Basically daily brush micro-blogging at home, Weibo see the material docking information to friends in the circle, so on the sixth day of the New Year.
初六早上，我吃药的时候发现，剩下的药只够三天的量。
On the morning of the sixth day, when I took the medicine, I found that there was only enough medicine for three days.
上网一查，大家说距离封城结束至少还有两周时间。
On the Internet, people said the closure of the city is at least two weeks away.
我有点慌了。
I'm a little nervous.
这件事打破了无聊的 “闭关”，我们一家跟着开始着急。
This matter broke the boring "shut-in", our family then began to worry.
我是 18 年五月份确诊癫痫的。
I was diagnosed with epilepsy in May 18.
18 年大年初八，上班第一天，在工位上坐了六七个小时，下班前我突然抽搐，然后就昏过去了。
On my first day of work, after six or seven hours in the cubicle, I had a sudden twitch before work and fainted.
同事帮我打了 120。
My colleague helped me call 120.
我当时意识基本没有了，但模糊感觉被抬上了救护车。
I was almost unconscious, but the vague feeling was carried to the ambulance.
本以为是太累了没休息好，加上脑 CT 也显示正常，醒了后我就直接出院了。
I thought I was too tired to have a good rest, and the brain CT also showed normal, I wake up directly out of the hospital.
直到 4 月份又被 120 拉走......那次就做了全套检查，最终被确诊为反射性癫痫综合症。
It wasn't until April that he was taken away by 120... That time he underwent a complete examination and was finally diagnosed as a reflexive epileptic syndrome.
医生告知，癫痫患者若接受药物治疗，就与慢性病人一样不能中断，若不听医嘱临时中断，轻则会经历频繁的 “小” 发作，重则前期的治疗作废，引起更频繁更严重的全身性大发作，特殊情况有猝死风险。
Doctors informed that patients with epilepsy if the drug treatment, like chronic patients can not be interrupted, if not temporarily interrupted, will experience frequent "small" episodes, heavy early treatment invalidated, more frequent and serious systemic outbursts, special circumstances risk sudden death.
医生开的药（全部图片来自受访者）之后我每天早晚固定吃药。
After the doctor prescribed the medicine (all pictures from the interviewee), I took the medicine every morning and evening.
其中安闲拉莫三嗪片是一种新药，属于管控药范围。
One of the placebo lamotriazine tablets is a new drug, which belongs to the scope of controlled drugs.
刚开始服药时，经常会忘记吃晚上那次。
When you start taking your medicine, you often forget the evening meal.
有一回熬夜到很晚，忘记吃药了，坐在床上病发作了，缓了十几分钟才好。
Once I stayed up late and forgot to take the medicine. I sat down in bed and had a fit. It took me ten minutes to recover.
从那之后就不会忘了，实在不敢掉以轻心。
I will not forget it after that, and I dare not take it lightly.
有癫痫这件事，即使是亲近的同事我都很少讲，除非关系真的非常好，或者我在同事面前发作过 —— 我会害怕别人对我的怜悯或唏嘘。
In the case of epilepsy, I rarely speak even to close colleagues, unless the relationship is really good, or I've had it in front of a coworker - I'm afraid people will pity me or sob me.
毕竟癫痫在常人眼里有个不好听的名字，羊癫疯。
After all epilepsy in the eyes of ordinary people have a bad name, epilepsy.
我很害怕在人多的地方突然发作，因为出现过这种尴尬的情况。
I was afraid of a sudden attack in a crowded place because there had been such an embarrassing situation.
有一次地铁门快关了，为了冲进地铁我紧张地快跑，慌张之后 “小” 发作了。
One time the iron gate was closing. I ran nervously to get into the subway. I panicked and had a "mini" attack.
我找了个旁边空的地方蹲下：“小” 发作时会呕，会失神，也可能摔跤。
I found a nearby empty place to squat down: "small" when the attack will nauseated, will lose their mind, may also wrestle.
我不喜欢别人朝我看过来的目光，他们会以为我喝多了吧。
I don't like the way people look at me. They think I'm drinking too much.
还有一次跟一个不太熟的异性朋友去看灾难片，因为场面太 “壮观”，不知不觉我又 “小” 发作了，有点严重。
Another time with a less familiar heterosexual friend to see disaster film, because the scene is too "spectacular", I unknowingly "small" attacks, a bit serious.
我的呕声有点像哭也有点像笑，在电影院里引起了小小的骚动，真的丢脸。
My vomit was a little like crying and kind of laughing, and it caused a little commotion in the movie theater. It was a disgrace.
缓过来后，这位异性朋友把我送回了家，我没告诉他实情。
After I recovered, the heterosexual friend sent me home without telling him the truth.
后来我拒绝了与他见面，面子这关，我过不去。
Later I refused to see him, face this, I can not pass.
这个药我持续服用三五年后，如果控制得好、不发作，就可停用，算是康复了；治不好，就要吃一辈子。
After three or five years of continuous administration of this medicine, if well controlled, do not attack, can be discontinued, is a recovery; if not cured, eat for a lifetime.
可眼下我怎么办？若我中断吃药，可能随时 “大” 发作。
But what do I do now? If I interrupt my medication, I may have a "big" attack at any time.
一来会让家人担心；二来 “大” 发作时我又是咬舌满嘴是血，又是呼吸不畅，加上全身僵直后，肌肉酸痛软弱无力，十分痛苦；三来若真是昏迷不醒，就得送医院 —— 让家人暴露在感染区下，我不忍心。
The first is to worry my family; the second is that my mouth is full of blood and my breathing is not good. The other is that my muscles are weak and painful after my body is stiff.
我本来的计划是初七返回武汉时再去拿药，但没想到现在出不去了。
My original plan was to return to Wuhan on the seventh day of junior high school to get medicine, but I now can not get out.
我们只能开始想办法。
We have to start thinking about it.
1 月 30 号当晚，我给家里的微信群和几个好友发消息，请大家帮忙打听医院和药店。
On the night of January 30, I sent a message to my family and a few friends, asking for help in asking about hospitals and pharmacies.
31 号一大早，我没睡好，很早就醒了。
Early in the morning, I didn't sleep well. I woke up early.
叔叔打电话过来：“我开药店的同学说县城里的所有药店已经被管治，不让单独开门。
"My uncle called:" I opened the drugstore students said that all the county pharmacies have been regulated, not to open the door alone.
” 接着，朋友们陆续也反馈了消息：“药店无药/县里三家医院都没有药。
"Friends continued to respond:" There is no medicine in the pharmacy / no medicine in the three hospitals in the county.
”收到这些消息的时候，虽然已有准备，但我心里还是凉了半截。
When I received the news, though prepared, my heart was still cold.
当时还有一丝希望，就是我刚开始服药时，有一次周末回家忘记带药，曾经和妈妈碰运气地跑到县医院门诊大楼后面的一家药店，买到了拉莫三嗪片。
There was a glimmer of hope that when I first started taking medicine, I went home one weekend to forget my medication, and I ran with my mother to a pharmacy behind the outpatient building of the county hospital and bought lamotriazine tablets.
朋友也没人提到县医院药店的具体情况，于是我跟我妈决定冒险去县医院问一问。
None of my friends mentioned the specifics of the county hospital pharmacy, so my mother and I decided to venture to the county hospital to ask.
这是回家十天以来我第一次出门。
It was my first trip home in ten days.
中午的云梦像凌晨三点的云梦，除了几个卖菜的摊位，街上几乎没有人，门店也是紧闭的，一切都好不真实。
The noonday dream was like a cloud dream at three in the morning. Except for a few vegetable stalls, there were few people in the street and the stores were closed.
自从出生以来，我从没见过这样的云梦。
I have never seen such a dream since I was born.
主干道上没有汽车妈妈骑着她的小摩托，带我来到县医院。
There was no bus mother riding her scooter on the main road and she took me to the county hospital.
县医院大门只开了够一辆车进出的宽度，旁边设了提示牌，旁边设了提示牌：“凡进入院区者，必须佩戴口罩”。
The county hospital gate is just wide enough for a car to go in and out, with a sign next to it: "Anyone entering the compound must wear a mask."
我先去了上次买到药的县医院药房，却看见药房旁边的告示牌：“发热患者通道” —— 这个活动板房的医院药店被改成了发热门诊。
I went to the county hospital pharmacy, where I had last bought medicine, only to see a sign next to the pharmacy: "Fever Patient Channel" - the hospital pharmacy in the ambulatory room was converted into a fever clinic.
不复存在的药房我当时特别害怕，第一次真切地感觉到离死亡这么近。
The drugstore that no longer exists I was particularly afraid and for the first time felt so close to death.
没有办法，只能到县医院的内科门诊挂号。
There is no choice but to register at the internal medicine clinic of the county hospital.
医护人员拿着红外体温仪在我额头上扫了一下，放行之后，我一路小跑进去。
The paramedics took an infrared thermometer and swept it across my forehead. After releasing it, I trotted in.
虽然病人寥寥无几，但我一秒钟都不想多呆。
There are few patients, but I don't want to stay a second longer.
医生查了系统后，明确地说：“没有药。
After examining the system, the doctor said clearly, There is no medicine.
整个系统都查不到。
The whole system can't find it.
” 我强调了一遍这药的重要性，医生仍然表示没有办法。
"I stressed the importance of the drug again, but the doctor said nothing could be done.
当时我急得眼泪都快出来了，也只能和妈妈先回家，寄希望于其他途径。
I was in such a hurry that tears were coming out and I had to go home with my mother first, hoping for other ways.
回到家后，我与家人发现无法网购此药：网购需填写处方，但病历留在了武汉；而且湖北省内不能发货。
Back home, my family and I found we couldn't buy the medicine online: we had to fill out a prescription, but our medical record remained in Wuhan; and we couldn't deliver it in Hubei province.
放弃了网购药品后，我们一家在焦虑中理了理思路：两条线，线上发朋友圈和微博求助，线下继续打听能买到药的其他医院，并联系外地的朋友问他们能否开药寄出。
After giving up online shopping for drugs, our family came up with two lines of reasoning in their anxiety: two lines, online mailing circles and microblogging for help, continuing online inquiries about other hospitals where drugs could be purchased, and contacting friends in other places to ask if they could prescribe drugs for delivery.
求助微博发出后，云梦同盟会帮忙转发。
After help microblog sends out, cloud dream alliance can help forward.
有热心网友给我建议：可以打电话给食药监局。
Have warm-hearted netizen to give me suggestion: Can call food medicine superintendency bureau.
我决定再等等看亲戚朋友的反馈。
I decided to wait for feedback from my relatives and friends.
下午 4 点左右，我的好朋友告诉我孝感的医院可能会有药，因为之前卖过。
Around 4 p. m., my best friend told me that the filial hospital might have medicine because it had been sold before.
听到这个消息的时候，我打字的手都在抖，“总算有点着落了”。
When I heard the news, my typing hands were shaking. "Somewhere down the road."
但当我们开始询问如何开车去孝感拿药时，发现即使开车到孝感也就二十多分钟，但封城了不让开车。
But when we started asking how to drive to get the medicine, we found that even driving to filial piety lasted more than twenty minutes, but the city was closed to cars.
妈妈是社区舞蹈老师，她在舞蹈学员群里发出求助后，一位恰好是卫生局工作人员的学员告诉我们，要携身份证、病历（或相关证明）、医院出示的无药证明、驾驶证/车辆行驶证等资料，去防疫指挥大队开通行证。
A student who happened to be a member of the health department told us to bring along her ID card, medical record (or relevant certificate), no medical certificate from the hospital, driver's license / vehicle driving permit and so on to issue a pass to the anti-epidemic command brigade.
凭借通行证，交通管理部门便会放行。
With the pass, the traffic control department releases them.
31 日，以为一切差不多水道渠成了，我打算第二天带着身份证，去县医院开证明，然后去孝感拿药。
On the 31st, thinking that all the waterways have been completed, I intend to take the identity card the next day, to the county hospital issued a certificate, and then go filial piety to get medicine.
这时孝感优抚医院的工作人员发来微信，“你们不用过来了，刚刚我问了现在在医院值班的同事，我们现在没有这个药了。
At this time, filial piety caress hospital staff sent a message, "You don't have to come, just now I asked the colleagues on duty in the hospital, we do not have this medicine.
” 同一天我收到来自安陆、应城、大悟和孝感市的消息，有药店的老板、有医药销售、有医院医生，全部表示：“没有这个药。
On the same day, I received news from Anlu, Yingcheng, Daoism and Xiaogan City. There were drugstore owners, medical sales, and hospital doctors, all of whom said, "There is no such medicine.
”那天感觉好戏剧，一整天的情绪都像在坐过山车。
It was such a good day that I felt like a roller coaster all day.
到最后我已经没有力气，决定放弃了：“死就死吧。
At last I had no strength left and decided to give up: "Die and die.
”2 月 1 日一觉醒来，我再次感觉一座大山压着自己，喘不过气、精神紧张，随时有可能再一次发作。
As I awoke on February 1, I felt a mountain weigh on me again, out of breath, out of my mind, ready to explode again.
躺在床上，我开始回复关心我情况的消息，这时看到婶婶的信息：“问到了，中医院有“。
Lying in bed, I began to reply to the news of my concern, when I saw my aunt's message: "Asked, the Chinese Hospital has."
之后表姐在也群里发了 2 盒药的图片，她那边也找到了。
After my cousin in the group also sent 2 boxes of pictures of medicine, she also found there.
表姐常年不在云梦，她辛苦了一天才打听到原来中医院是有药的。
Cousin is not in the cloud dream all year round, she worked hard a day to find out that the original TCM hospital is drug.
我除了感谢几乎顾不上跟婶婶和表姐多说什么，马上去了中医院，不敢再等。
I thanked my aunt and cousin almost nothing to say, immediately went to the Chinese hospital, dare not wait.
拿到药时，我心里的石头终于落地 —— 自己又能正常活下去了。
When I got the medicine, the stone in my heart finally fell to the ground - I was able to live normally again.
随后几天，很多有类似情况的朋友开始微信问我：没药怎么办/怎么开通行证。
Over the next few days, many friends with similar situations began to write to me asking: What about myrrh / how to issue a pass.
向我打听管控药怎么开的老乡我在武汉的室友是麻城人，她在孕期，但是贫血，需要持续打针依诺肝素钠注射液，如果不打，对自己和胎儿都会有极大风险。
My roommate in Wuhan is from Massachusetts. She is pregnant, but she is anaemic and needs continuous injections of Enoxanthin Sodium Injection, which, if not administered, poses a great risk to herself and the fetus.
她的老公在当地指挥中心开到了通行证，驱车到武汉出租屋内才拿到药。
Her husband at the local command center drove to the laissez-passer, driving to Wuhan rental housing to get the medicine.
还有一位朋友的妈妈，曾患肾病，使用大量激素类药物治疗，虽然治愈但留下了后遗症，需要长期服用治疗贫血和骨质疏松的药物。
Another friend's mother, who had a history of kidney disease and was treated with a large number of hormonal drugs, although cured, left a hangover and required long-term medication for anaemia and osteoporosis.
医生告诫说，如果长期不吃药，会全身疼痛，腿部尤为严重。
Doctors warn that if you do not take medicine for a long time, it will cause pain all over the body, especially in the legs.
武汉严重的疫情让她决定暂时不出门去医院拿药，因为即便去了医院，也有可能面临无药和交叉感染的风险。
The severe epidemic in Wuhan has led her to temporarily stay out of the hospital to get medicine, as even going to the hospital can expose her to the risk of drug-free and cross-infection.
虽然不知道长期断药会不会出现医生所说的情况，但眼下，她决定先扛一扛。
It was not known whether a long-term medical condition would occur, but for the moment she decided to carry it first.
最后，虽说自己早就因为这个病在鬼门关走过好几次，但这次的恐惧却最为真实。
In the end, though I had already passed through the ghost door several times because of the disease, this time the fear was the most real.
原本可以避免的情况，却因为种种原因，险些成为压倒骆驼的最后一根稻草。
What could have been avoided had, for a variety of reasons, almost become the last straw to overwhelm the camel.
我这样的慢性病人还有很多，希望这次疫情能快点过去，也希望大家都能平安。
I have a lot of chronic diseases, I hope this epidemic can pass quickly, and hope that we can all be safe.
// 编辑：Alexwood在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Editor: In this epidemic, have you ever been forced to change your habits, what new relationships have you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections you have gained? If you have any ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
虽然叫 “武汉呼叫”，但疫情影响的是我们所有人。
Although it is called Wuhan Call, the epidemic affects us all.
无论你来自哪里，身在哪里，我们都想听到你的故事。
Wherever you come from, wherever you are, we want to hear your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后无药可吃的慢性病人，承担着猝死的风险。
People with chronic diseases who have no medicine to eat after sealing the city bear the risk of sudden death.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "封城后无药可吃的慢性病人，承担着猝死的风险";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "那天感觉好戏剧，一整天的情绪都像在坐过山车。
var msg _ desc = & quot; It was a good day at the theatre, and the mood all day was like a roller coaster.
到最后我已经没有力气，决定放弃了：“死就死吧。
At last I had no strength left and decided to give up: "Die and die.
”";。
";;
title: '“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了',。
As a foreign student at home, I feared I had dropped out of service at & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
