“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们。
"Get something": rock 'n' roll aficionados who are bailing out early bird tickets.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
涂俊南（大家喜欢叫他小涂，乐队 “丢莱卡” 的主唱）的捐助日志在大年三十那天晚上出现在朋友圈。
Toto Junnan (who is popularly known as Tu Tu, the band's lead singer) appeared in a circle of friends on the evening of New Year's Eve.
如往年，他没回去跟家里人过春节，独自留在北京。
: He didn't go back to spend the Spring Festival with his family and stayed in Beijing alone.
他原本计划三月份回去南昌陪陪父母，因为疫情爆发，今年大概是回不去了。
He had planned to return to Nanchang to accompany his parents in March because the outbreak probably would not return this year.
一个人在家，他也没空关心除夕夜里的高唱团圆和万家灯火。
At home alone, he has no time to care about the New Year's Eve singing reunion and all the lights.
“搞点东西” 的七个核心成员都在忙着，这个由摇滚乐迷们自发组成的援助组织抢在武汉封城的第二天，发出了他们送往湖北的第一笔援助物资：500 个医用一次性口罩，1800 个医用橡胶手套，100 副护目镜，收件方是华中科技大学协和医院。
The seven core members of "Getting Things Done" were busy when the aid group, a spontaneous aid group of rock 'n' roll fans, rushed to Hubei the day after the first aid they sent to Hubei: 500 medical disposable masks, 1,800 medical rubber gloves, 100 pairs of goggles, received by the Huazhong University of Science and Technology Concorde Hospital.
电视里 2020 年春晚《难忘今宵》的照例响起，社交媒体上持续增长的疫情讯息唱着反调。
As usual on TV's 2020 Spring Festival Gala "Unforgettable Tonight," the message of the growing social media epidemic is playing the other side.
农历大年二十九早晨十点，武汉率先变成一座孤岛，接连着湖北省内的其他县市宣布封城。
At 10 a.m. in the Chinese New Year, Wuhan first became an isolated island, connecting the other counties and cities in Hubei Province to declare the city closed.
疾病和死亡在身边发生，除夕夜里，起码湖北的五千多万人们没谁关心电视机屏幕上放着什么。
Illness and death occur around us. On New Year's Eve, at least, more than 50 million people in Hubei province care about what lies on their TV screens.
小涂的微博上常帮忙转一些求助帖，大都是乐迷们 @涂俊南，配文 “小涂帮帮忙”。
Tu on the micro-blog often help turn some help posts, most are fans @ Toongnam, with the text "small Tu help."
“搞点东西”也是这么开始的。
That's how "get something" started.
“发起者里面有一个丢莱卡的乐迷，想问我能不能帮忙微博转发，我就被拉进群了”。
"One of the initiators, a Leicester fan, wanted to ask me if I could help tweet forward, and I was drawn into the group."
小涂发现群里素未谋面的朋友们渴望为疫区送去支援，但方法上缺乏规划，空有热情似乎不够。
Tu found that the group of friends have never met eager to send support to the epidemic area, but the method of planning, empty enthusiasm seems not enough.
福来，哥特，考拉，OA，小田，阿泽，小涂，七个人互不相熟，都是 “网友”；但疫情紧张，事不宜迟。
Fook, Gothic, koala, OA, Oda, Aze, Tu, seven people do not know each other, are "netizen"; but the outbreak of tension, do not delay.
小涂觉得必须得有个合理成型的工作方法，开始直接参与物资筹集和捐助的组织工作。
Tu felt it was necessary to have a well-formed working method and began to be directly involved in the organization of material mobilization and donations.
他们需要找到合适自己的方式 —— 毕竟七个人能力有限，而且阳历一月末已经开始面临物流放假、物资售罄的局面，捐钱轻易，但物资难购。
They need to find the right way - seven people, after all, have limited capabilities, and the Gregorian calendar is already facing a holiday in late January and running out of supplies.
他们担心出现大批善款在手中却买不到物资，最终选择了 “先找货源和物流，确定需要的款项，再以一元购买链接在微店众筹善款” 的方式。
Fearing that large sums of money would not be available, they opted for "sourcing and logistics first, determining the amount needed, and then buying links to raise money in microstores".
”我们不预先筹款，所以资金流不会很大，”小涂说，“好处是每笔钱都是花出去的，每一笔都可以查。
"We don't raise money in advance, so it's not going to be big," Tu said.
我们也会选择地方上医疗资源比较匮乏的小医院来援助。
We also choose small hospitals where local medical resources are scarce to assist.
”这个模式可行。
This model works.
他们与友邻志愿小组的朋友们共同寻找还能生产发货的供货商，互相分享信息；同时有一个 500 人的微信大群，里面都是些热心的陌生人或乐迷朋友，多年演出抢票经验让他们摆出 “抢早鸟票” 的架势，抢购发在群里的 “一元链接”，小涂说 “有时候七八千的链接半分钟就抢完了。
They worked with friends in a volunteer neighborhood group to find suppliers who could still produce shipments and share information with each other, and a 500-person microphone crowd of eager strangers or enthusiasts with years of experience in ticket-snatching led them to snag "early bird tickets" and snapped up "one-dollar links" in the group, saying, "Sometimes seven or eight thousand links are broken in half a minute.
”我尝试跟众多乐迷拼拼手速看是否能 “抢票成功” —— 失败了。
I tried to wrestle with many fans to see if I could "snatch the ticket" - but failed.
光是填了个收货地址的功夫，再回到页面就显示 “已售罄”。
Just fill in a receipt address and go back to the page and show "Sold Out."
我的地址为了节省时间，输入的是最简单的，精确度只到朝阳区，打字也就两分钟。
To save time, my address was entered with the simplest possible accuracy to the Chaoyang area, typing for only two minutes.
这单我没抢到。
I didn't get the order.
小涂笑说这个 500 人的大群里大家常开玩笑：“还没售罄，冲冲冲！”、“主办方傻X！”，乐迷抢票的 “行业黑话” 占领了这个因为热情和爱心而汇聚成的群聊，也算是苦中作乐。
The group of 500 people often joked: "not sold out, rush out!", "organizers silly X!" Music fans snatched tickets "industry slang" occupied the group chat because of passion and love, and it was a bitter fun.
来看看 “搞点东西” 的 500 人大群里大家是如何 “抢早鸟票” 的。
Take a look at how the 500-odd people in the "Get some stuff" crowd "beat the birds early."
图片来自涂俊南受限于物资购买的体量，“搞点东西” 一直没开二群，援助行动之前一直在那个 500 人的群聊中。
Pictured here is Tu Junnan, limited by the volume of supplies purchased, "do something" has not been two groups, the aid operation has been in the group of 500 people chat.
“有五百位热忱、稳定的朋友支持完全够了”。
"Five hundred enthusiastic, steady friends are enough."
但因为物资统一调配、物流问题等种种原因，援助湖北地区变得不再容易。
But it is no longer easy to assist Hubei for various reasons, such as material distribution and logistics problems.
自 2月 2 日我读完小涂的捐助日志后，接下来的几天里，日志一直未见更新。
The log hasn't been updated for the next few days since I finished reading the donor log on February 2.
如他所言，我们也清楚地知道：遇到困难了，事情没有进展。
As he said, we are also well aware of the difficulties encountered and the lack of progress.
全国返工的时间一再延迟，湖北把控愈严，手机里各个群聊都是小道消息，真真假假。
The time of rework throughout the country has been delayed repeatedly, Hubei more strict control, cell phones are all gossip, true and false.
我问小涂之后的打算怎么办，他说 “我们可能要转换个方向”。
When I asked him what I was going to do with Tu, he said, "We might have to change direction."
在 2 月 8 日的夜里，一条新的微店售卖链接终于再次出现在朋友圈。
On the night of February 8, a new microstore selling link finally reappeared in the circle of friends.
凌晨三点多，小涂也终于再次更新了捐助日志，带着显然被屏蔽多次的抱怨，“捐个东西怎么捐的我抱头鼠窜”。
At 3 a. m., Tu finally updated his donor log, complaining, apparently blocked many times, "How do I donate something?"
关键字地名已经不能在微博正文中出现，他只得换成大家可以意会的代号。
Keyword place names can no longer appear in the body of micro-blog, he had to replace the code you can understand.
我一边欣慰，一边觉得无奈，这只是一篇捐助日志而已。
I feel relieved while feel helpless, this is just a donation log.
这五天里，他们决定开 “搞点东西二群” ，并且转换捐助目标至湖北周边，疫情同样需要被关注的省份，比如河南、安徽和江西。
Over the past five days, they have decided to start a "do something" campaign and switch to areas around Hubei province, which also needs attention, such as Henan, Anhui and Jiangxi.
同时，他们也做资源和信息的对接，把体量更大的物资同步给友邻小组，同时也为有能力提供大量捐款的朋友们提供渠道。
At the same time, they also do resource and information docking, synchronize the larger amount of material to a group of friends, and also provide a channel for friends who are able to make large donations.
截止 2020 年 2 月 8 日，“搞点东西”乐迷组织已经筹集并切实使用善款 43630 元，用于购买：口罩、医用手套、护目镜、防护面罩、免洗洗手液、鞋套等医用物资，顺利发往华中科技大学同济医学院协和医院、孝感中心医院、襄阳中心医院、仙桃第一人民医院、宜昌二院、宜昌三院、荆州中心医院、黄石有色医院、五峰土家族自治县人民医院、黄梅县人民医院、蕲春县人民医院、武钢总医院、孝感中心医院、襄阳市中心医院、浠水县中医院、麻城县人民医院、黄州总医院、红安县人民医院、广水市第一人民医院和随州中心医院共 19 家医院。
As of February 8, 2020, the organization has raised and used 43,630 yuan for the purchase of: masks, medical gloves, goggles, face protection mask, wash-free hand sanitizer, shoe cover, etc., to 19 hospitals in Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Tongji Medical College, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Huangmei County People's Hospital,
这个数额或许并不大，在如洪水猛兽般蔓延的疫情中约是杯水车薪，但是一颗火种也能让人望得见光，感受到热量。
That may not be a big deal, but a single fire can make people see the light and feel the heat in a devastating epidemic.
小涂把他们的捐助细节都记在了捐助日志里。
Tu wrote down the details of their donations in the donation log.
我摘取了这些日志的片段，它记录着一个微弱但充满光和热的火种是如何慢慢前进，又是如何在每况愈下的现实面前，扛住心里的叹息和失望，把热情迸发最初时的善意，坚持下去。
I have picked up fragments of these logs, which record how a faint but warm flame is advancing slowly, and how, in the face of the ever-worsening reality, I carry the sigh and disappointment in my heart and burst forth my initial good will.
涂俊南的捐助日志（节选）1 月 24 日今天是小组召集成立的第一天，大部分时间花在内部讨论确定捐赠流程、模式与搜寻货源上。
JANUARY 24 - The first day the panel was convened, most of it was spent in-house discussions to determine the donation process, modalities and sourcing.
汇集今日信息，总结各方经验，我们希望能给其他想要做点什么的人提供参考，给深陷新型冠状病毒疫情和恐慌中心的同胞一些支持。
By compiling today's information and summarizing the experiences of all parties, we hope to be able to provide a reference for others who want to do something about this new coronavirus outbreak and panic center.
我们七人确定了分工，包括收集汇总信息、直接与厂家联系、支付购买、记账、信息管理、宣传召集。
The seven of us worked out the division of labor, including collecting aggregate information, contacting manufacturers directly, paying for purchases, keeping records, managing information, and publicizing calls.
确定了具体工作方案（包括作为自发的民间组织，如何有效合理筹款）。
Specific work programmes were identified (including effective and rational fund-raising as a spontaneous civil society organization).
我们的流程是：网络确认物资需求-联系医院确认能否接受社会捐助-打电话联系厂家-购买下单-在群内公示金额筹款。
Our process is: network confirmation of material needs - contact hospitals to confirm whether to accept social donations - call manufacturers - purchase orders - raise money in groups.
因为我们不是官方或正式的机构，所以每笔筹集的资金都是根据实际需要的货物金额，在群内收。
Since we are not an official or formal agency, each fund raised is collected in a group based on the amount of goods actually needed.
为控制金额上限且大家都有机会帮忙，我们最后决定用微店下单付款的方式（我用了自己乐队的微店，上新商品，单价一元，库存上限为总金额），这样也好后期直接从后台复制公示。
In order to limit the amount of money and we all had the opportunity to help, we finally decided to pay by microshop (I used my band's micro-shop, put in a new product, unit price of one dollar, inventory ceiling), so we could copy the announcement directly from the background.
1 月 25 日口罩和防护服已经基本收由国家调配，这是好事，于是我们重点放在了其他物资上。
On January 25, respirators and protective clothing were almost at the disposal of the state, which was good, so we focused on other materials.
比及口罩、护目镜、防护服这种最最紧缺的，像鞋套、手套、医用帽这些物资相对好找一些，它们也同样被急需。
These are relatively easy to find, as are masks, goggles and protective clothing, which are in short supply. They are also badly needed.
由于被提醒消毒液和酒精很难运输，我们也没有条件，就先放下了这两项。
As we were reminded that disinfectants and alcohol were difficult to transport, we had no conditions, so we dropped them first.
今天除了逐渐提升的捐助量，还和其他一些民间自发组织建立了联系。
Today, in addition to a growing volume of donations, links have been established with other voluntary civil society organizations.
借鉴他们的工作方式，且在资源和消息上互通有无，一定程度上避免了一窝蜂做同一地、同一项，大家的重点都能更清晰一点。
Learning from their way of working, and the exchange of resources and information, to a certain extent avoid a rush to do the same place, the same item, everyone's focus can be clearer.
1 月 26 日虽然只是第三天，从一个完全自发的志愿小组的角度来讲，我们观测到的情况变化不可谓不大。
On 26 January, though only for the third day, the changes we observed were not insignificant from the point of view of a fully spontaneous volunteer group.
许多小组都在吃灰。
Many groups are eating ash.
口罩、防护服之类的核心物资越来越难找了，包括我们和其他几个小组都遇到了很多不了了之的单子。
Core items such as masks and protective clothing are becoming increasingly difficult to find, including a long list of things we and several other groups have come up against.
我们都觉得，这次本打算做持久战的志愿工作或许不多久就要到头。
We all felt that this volunteer effort, which was intended to last a long time, might not last long.
无依无凭的民间支援于情于理都只是补充存在，但只有到不得已时行动才能停下，在那之前，有多少做多少，毕竟总有太多不被恩泽的角落。
Unsupported civil support for reason merely supplements existence, but action can only be stopped if necessary. Until then, how much can be done, after all, there will always be too many corners that are not favoured.
经过了三天，我们基本确定现在的模式是可行的，虽然慢且小，至少稳定有效。
After three days, we basically decided that the current model is feasible, albeit slow and small, at least stable and effective.
除了襄阳、孝感、仙桃，我们今天还试着与八家更小的医院取得了联系，寄了一部分鞋套，明天将继续为它们收集其他物资。
In addition to Xiangyang, filial piety and peach, we tried to reach out to eight smaller hospitals today, send some of their shoe covers, and continue to collect other supplies for them tomorrow.
今天是我们经手总金额最大的一天，有一万多，没想到参与筹款的大家第三天热情愈发高涨，很感动也很受鼓舞。
Today is the total amount of money we handled the largest day, more than 10,000 people, did not expect to participate in fund-raising on the third day of enthusiasm increased, very moved and encouraged.
希望无论时局如何变迁，人群如何割裂，这份愿意无条件为苦苦泅水的同胞做些什么的心意不变。
I hope that no matter how the situation changes, how the crowd split, this is willing to do unconditionally for the compatriots swimming unchanged.
别闭上红掉的眼睛，就算只有一点点也尽量做些事吧。
Don't close your red eyes, and try to do even a little.
尽力量力，别急着灰心。
Try your best not to lose heart.
1 月 28 日至 29 日所有非常时期都是正常时期，所有正常时期都是非常时期。
January 28-29 All unusual periods are normal, and all normal periods are exceptional.
攒住劲。
Save your strength.
包括我们小组在内，面向湖北的民间捐助进度都慢了下来或已经停滞。
Private donations to Hubei, including our group, have slowed or stalled.
物资越发难找，我们都不同程度遇到了前期资源不合格、物流不畅的状况，加上有许多人在恶意抬价和销售伪劣物资，这两天的工作也相应谨慎了些。
Materials are more difficult to find, we all encountered varying degrees of pre-qualified resources, logistics, plus a lot of people in malicious prices and sales of counterfeit and inferior materials, the two days of work has been correspondingly cautious.
我们不得不承认，热情有（主动或被迫地）衰退的趋势。
We have to admit that there is a tendency for enthusiasm to decline (actively or forcibly).
越来越多的悲剧和越来越少能做的事情，习惯了在公共事件中按下转发键带来的虚假参与感的年轻人们，好像又一次要让最初的能量溜走了。
More and more tragedies and fewer things to do, young people accustomed to the false sense of engagement that comes with pressing forward buttons in public events, seem once again to let the initial energy slip away.
这里没有要批评谁的意思，我认为这在今天非常正常。
There is no point in criticizing anyone here, and I think that is very normal today.
至少我自己也是这样。
At least I'm the same way.
可是诸君，瘟疫是不会这么快消退的，无论它这次有没有触碰到自己，它都在浸泡我们。
But, princes, the plague is not so fast subsided, whether it touched itself or not, it is soaking us.
如果不做好愚公移山的准备，我们大有可能会在它们终结之前就淡忘、习惯它们，热情退却后，只有真切受苦的人继续死掉。
If we are not prepared to move mountains, we may well forget them before they are over, get used to them, and when the passions subside, only those who really suffer will continue to die.
“热情” 是这样的，它作为一个起点无疑是好的，持续则难。
"Enthusiasm" is like this. It's no doubt good as a starting point, but hard to keep going.
如果没有来自深处坚信的价值（需要真正的自我改造），指望热情长期支撑我们行动，只有节节胜利的变现来哺乳，而这在大多数情况下都不可能。
Without deeply held values (which require real self-improvement), we count on enthusiasm to sustain our actions for the long term, with only a triumphant cash-flow to breastfeed, which is impossible in most cases.
不用去怀疑任何参与积极行动的人开始的动机，这也是对于 “想要世界变好一点” 这种初心的不忠诚。
Do not doubt the motives of anyone who engages in positive action, and this is the initial disloyalty to "wanting the world to be better."
人当然会有低落和怀疑的时候，甚至是大多数时候。
Of course there are times when we are down and suspicious, even most of the time.
要学会承认这一点，但不可以把它作为一锤定音的答案。
Learn to admit this, but don't use it as an answer to a certain question.
1 月 30 日至 31 日同期前后几天开始捐助的志愿小组这几天都停了，或者有停下的打算。
Volunteer groups that began donating in the days around the same period, from 30 to 31 January, have either stopped or are planning to stop.
不过也有很多新出来的志愿组织，有接力持续向湖北输送的，也有救助本地医院的，很感动。
But there are also many new voluntary organizations, there are relay to Hubei, but also to help the local hospital, very moved.
民间志愿组织还是要互助，接触到的信息相对多，应该尽力向身边的人传达。
Non-governmental voluntary organizations or mutual assistance, access to a relatively large number of information, should try to convey to the people around them.
我们的捐助已开始一周有余，大家或多或少出现了一些后劲不足的情况，不免都有些担忧，但我个人觉得还好。
More than a week after the start of our donation, there has been more or less a lack of motivation, and there is some concern, but I personally feel better.
随着复工复课，大家自然会慢慢地抽远，一点点慢下来是正常的，持续发力就好。
With the resumption of classes, people will naturally slowly draw away, a little slower is normal, sustained strength is good.
大家都量力而行才能持之以恒。
We can persevere only if we do what we can.
2 月 1 日至 2 日这两天做成得不太多，大家都不同程度地疲了，加上找物资和物流上的难题 —— 很多时候都需要拿到医院出具的 “请货函” 或其他证明文件，厂家才能发货，路上也好放行。
The two days from February 1 to 2 were not much done, everyone was fatigued to varying degrees, and there were material and logistical difficulties - often requiring a "letter of request" or other supporting documents from the hospital to be delivered and cleared by the manufacturer on the way.
这三天一共购入了三批物资，分别是免洗洗手液、防护服和护目镜，三批物资都捐给了黄州总医院。
Three shipments of hand sanitizers, protective clothing and goggles were purchased over the three days, all donated to the Huangzhou General Hospital.
另外我们 1 月 29 日购入的医用手套，除了蕲春县人民医院，其他六所医院都已经收到了。
In addition, the medical gloves we bought on 29 January have been sent to all six hospitals except Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Peoples Hospital.
如果之后大家看到我没有更新这天的捐助日志，那很可能是因为这天实在没什么进展，我们挪到后面合起来写了。
If you see that I didn't update the donor log for that day, it's probably because there wasn't much progress on that day, so we moved to the back and wrote together.
无论发生什么，写得多或者少，这个捐助日志作为公示都会持续发下去，不会无声无息地停下的，直到一切都过去或实在做不下去的那一天。
No matter what happens, write much or little, this donation log will continue to be posted as a public notice and will not stop quietly until everything is over or cannot be done.
谢谢各位，请继续监督、提醒、发力。
Thank you. Please continue to monitor, remind and exert efforts.
2 月 3 日至 8 日因为想尽量做到每笔钱落到实处，也是担心这次行动和许多事一样雷声大雨点小，1 月 24 日我们拉满第一个筹款群之后就没再拉过新群，想先把力量集中到能有效利用的范围。
Feb. 3-8, trying to make the most of every penny we got, and fearing that it would be just as stormy as many things, didn't pull in new talent after we filled our first fundraising group on January 24th, trying to concentrate on what we can use effectively.
但这件事我们不能让它停在 “自然而然地消逝” 中，这里没有什么是真正 “自然” 的。
But we can't let it stop there "naturally." Nothing here is really "natural."
我们想要把它做成一件真正长线的事情，用我们的方式，至少在民间援助这一点上尽可能和所有人一起走到最后。
We want to make it a real long-term thing, in our own way, at least on the point of private aid with everyone to the end.
想要再拉一个群，并非出于扩大声量、想 “干一票狠的” 考虑，反而是出于上面提到的初心和原则。
The desire to pull another group stems not from a desire to amplify the volume of voices, but from the above-mentioned considerations of originality and principle.
因为我们想要打真正的持久战，在更长的时间维度来看，人数不变，负担落到现有的人头上的就都沉重了些，这是不利于持续的。
Because we want to fight a real protracted war, in the longer term, the same number of people, the burden on the existing people are heavier, which is not conducive to sustainability.
文中所有图片均来源于涂俊南所以，如果你有心愿意持续密切关注事态，细水长流地参与我们的物资捐助活动，可以加入我们的二群。
If you are willing to keep a close watch on the situation and participate in our material donation activities, you can join our two groups.
是摇滚乐迷最好，不是也根本没任何所谓。
Rock music fans are the best, not and not at all so-called.
在筹钱之外的时间，各位也可以帮我们一起找合适的物资，或者开始发起自己的行动。
In addition to raising money, you can also help us find the right materials, or start their own initiative.
对疫情的抵抗可能还需要坚持很久，但从一开始，就做好了要坚持到最后一刻的打算。
Resistance to the epidemic may take a long time, but from the outset, the intention was to stay the course until the last minute.
“和最初一样，我们并不打算做成出什么了不起的大数额、大动作，只想作为普通人在灾祸结束之前做到能做的事情：搞点东西。
As at the beginning, we had no intention of making any great sums or movements, but of doing what the common man can do before the calamity is over: get something done.
灾祸还没结束，那它就不应该停下。
Mishaps should not stop before they are over.
”// 作者：涂俊南、jingya// 编辑：Alexwood在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Author: John Tu Junnan, Jingya / / Editor: In this epidemic, have you been forced to change your habits, what new relationships have you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections have you had? If you have ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
虽然叫 “武汉呼叫”，但疫情影响的是我们所有人。
Although it is called Wuhan Call, the epidemic affects us all.
无论你来自哪里，身在哪里，我们都想听到你的故事。
Wherever you come from, wherever you are, we want to hear your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们。
"Get something": rock 'n' roll aficionados who are bailing out early bird tickets.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "“搞点东西”：用抢早鸟票的劲头做物资援助的摇滚乐迷们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“灾祸还没结束，那我们就不应该停下。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Before the disaster ended, we shouldn't have stopped.
”";。
";;
title: '作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了',。
As a foreign student at home, I feared I had dropped out of service at & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '花伦朱明康：我被封锁在家，弹一把缺弦的红棉牌吉他',。
Hua Ren Zhu Mingkang: I was locked up at home playing a defective Cotton Guitar & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '妈妈的坚韧和幽默，依旧能够带给我们力量',。
A: My mother's fortitude and humor still gives us strength and humor.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
