作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了。
As a foreign student staying at home, I am afraid I will be out of school.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
新冠给了 2020 一个噩梦般的开局，病毒爆发得快，所有事情发生得也快。
The new crown gave 2020 a nightmarish start, with the virus exploding fast and everything happening fast.
中国在经历一场猝不及防的劫难，世界也如临大敌，国际卫生组织宣布 “突发公共卫生事件”，一个个国家封关，大批航线停航，国家乃至世界层面的应急、保全决策都在极短的时间内推出。
The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a "public health emergency," sealed off individual countries, stopped a large number of routes, and made emergency and protection decisions at the national and international levels in a very short time.
1 月 31 日新加坡公告封关；2 月 1 日一早，我在新加坡转机飞悉尼的机票被取消；2 月 1 日下午，澳大利亚总理宣布为期 14 天的限境令，即时生效。
Singapore announced the closure on January 31. Early on February 1, my flight to Sydney via Singapore was cancelled. On the afternoon of February 1, the Australian Prime Minister announced a 14-day restriction order with immediate effect.
作为一个在悉尼上学的大学生，学校回不去了。
As a college student in Sydney, the school couldn't go back.
短短两天内我的学业一下子停了摆。
In two short days, my studies stopped.
我家住广东，现在是全国除湖北外确诊病例最多的省份。
I live in Guangdong Province, is now the country with the exception of Hubei Province confirmed the highest number of cases.
当下学业没有着落，为了防疫被迫居家，这对我这种平时看书工作要去外面，越无聊越想出门的人来说，实在不习惯。
At present, school is not available, in order to be forced to stay at home, this is normal reading work to go outside, the more boring more want to go out, is really not used to.
日常生活充斥着警惕，口罩湿巾洗手液已是必备，就算外出，碰到人就绕着走，拿回家的快递也要在门外拆了才能进门。
Daily life is full of vigilance, mask wipes hand sanitizer is a must, even if out, encounter people around the door, take home express will be opened outside the door to enter.
在家的日子，我不用再为上课上班订闹钟，却和我妈每天为了抢口罩定闹钟。
When I'm at home, I don't have to set alarm clocks for school, but I set alarm clocks with my mother every day to get a mask.
广州每晚八点可以在 “穗康” 的小程序预定第二天的五个口罩，于是我们每天 7：55 的闹钟，7：59 开始拼命按 “我要预约购买”，今天为止试了 10 天了，一次都没有成功过。
Guangzhou can order five masks for the next day at 8: 00 pm at the "Suai Kang" gadget, so we start pressing the "I Want to Make an Appointment" alarm clock at 7: 55 am every day.
我想念广州有灯火和人烟气的日子，图片来自作者新冠的爆发和蔓延让我一次次想起 “天灾” 这个词，当然也可以把这次疫情看作是乱吃野味而遭致的 “人祸”，但对绝大多数人来说，我觉得这是一个从天而降的、没有理由的横祸。
I miss the days of lights and human smoke in Guangzhou. The outbreak and spread of the author's new crown reminds me of the word "natural disaster" again and again, and of course this outbreak can be seen as a "man-made disaster" caused by eating wild game, but for most people, I think it is a natural and unjustifiable disaster.
尤其是对于患病的人、在疫区中心的人，这是一个搭进了性命的灾难。
Especially for the sick, in the center of the epidemic area, this is a life-threatening disaster.
截至昨天（2 月 9 日 14 时），全国 37262 人确诊新冠。
As of yesterday, 9 February, at 1400 hours, 37,262 people had been diagnosed with the new crown.
这放在 14 亿的人口中比例似乎不大，但我总想起那句话：对于中招的个人和家庭来说，这就是一个 100%。
That doesn't seem to be much of a population of 1.4 billion, but I've always remembered that for individuals and families, it's 100 percent.
如果把 “幸运” 和 “不幸” 放在一个刻度表的两端，当下整个世界都倾向了 “不幸”，而在这个大 “不幸” 中，我其实是幸运的：目前身体健康，亲友平安。
If I put "lucky" and "unfortunate" on either side of a scale, the whole world is now tilted toward "unhappiness," and in this great "misfortune," I am lucky: I am now healthy, and my friends and relatives are safe.
在这个大幅度停摆的时间里，我日常还能抱怨一句宅的痛苦、居家的无聊，以上种种，哪个不是 “幸运”？当然，要说在我眼中有没有比我更幸运的人？有的。
In this time of great pause, I can still complain about the pain of a house, the boredom of a home, which is not "lucky"? Of course, to say in my eyes there is no luckier person than me? Yes.
小信是我在悉尼读书的同学，澳洲宣布限境令的时候她正好托运完行李，在安检口排队。
Little letter is my classmate in Sydney, Australia announced the restriction order when she just checked luggage, at the security gate line.
这是一趟青岛 – 首尔 – 悉尼的航班，突然那边官宣封境，但这边航班并没被取消。
It was a Qingdao-Seoul-Sydney flight, and there was a sudden official blockade, but the flight was not canceled.
那这一程，究竟走不走？“一下还挺恐慌的，因为还在安检口没进去，就想要不就不上算了。
"It was a bit scary because I didn't get in at the security checkpoint, so I couldn't get it.
” 小信说。
"said little letter.
“即时生效” 的澳洲禁令给人留下一个盲区：宣布的时间是下午两点，那这个时间点上正在飞机上飞的人怎么办？隔离、遣返、还是顺利入境，这个一刀切的政策，把不少中国学生放在了国界与国界之间，陷入了巨大的由不确定性所引起的惊恐不安中。
The "immediate effect" ban in Australia leaves a blind spot: What happens to people who are flying on a plane at 2: 00pm? Separation, repatriation, or smooth entry - a one-size-fits-all policy that has put many Chinese students between national borders and into great uncertainty.
禁令的宣布也引爆了小信的朋友圈，一时间大数量并且真伪难辨的信息，让小信的心里一直摇摆不定。
The announcement of the ban also set off a wave of small letter friends, for a while a large number of true and false information, so that small letter has been fluctuating in the heart.
“就很多人在分析这个政策，分析的又不对，但话说得又特笃定。
"A lot of people are analyzing this policy, and the analysis is wrong, but it's a pretty sure thing.
”最终她还是选择走过安检，搭上这一趟飞机。
"She eventually walked past security and got on the plane.
好在一路顺利，中转首尔时工作人员帮忙确认，落地悉尼后也是一路插卡、过关、行李、申报并无异常。
Fortunately, the transit to Seoul staff to help confirm that the arrival in Sydney after the card, clearance, luggage, declaration is not unusual.
Astrid 是另一个在我看来相对 “幸运” 的朋友。
Astrid is another friend who seems to me to be relatively lucky.
她是我在悉尼同宿舍的同学，春节没有回国，家乡湖北十堰（截至 2 月 9 日 14 时，确诊 467 例，无人死亡，治愈 40 例）。
She is my roommate in Sydney, Spring Festival did not return home, Hubei Shiyan (as of February 9, 467 cases, no deaths, 40 cases cured).
“我原本大年三十当晚九点半的机票，但我爸爸早上给我发消息，说死亡人数到 17 例，最好别回了。
"I was supposed to have a 9: 30 flight on New Year's Eve, but my dad sent me a message this morning saying the death toll was 17 and it would be better not to return it.
那之前一两天一直很挣扎，一直想到底回不回中国？到底飞哪安全？” 她和我说。
Before that day or two has been very struggling, always want to go back to China? After all, which safe to fly? "She and I said.
为了能回家，在此之前 Astrid 已经几次改签，把武汉的机票高铁都改到了郑州。
Astrid had changed his ticket several times to Zhengzhou in order to be able to go home.
但看着疫情日益严重，她最后还是一个狠心，在起飞前的三个小时取消了机票，成为在悉尼过年的 “留守儿童”，“有幸” 不用亲身参与这场苦难。
But as the epidemic got worse, she was finally ruthless, cancelling her ticket three hours before taking off to become a "stay-at-home" child in Sydney, "lucky" not to be personally involved in the ordeal.
过年时吃的饭，图片来自 Astrid但即便如此，生活也过得并不轻松。
Astrid's picture of New Year's Eve meals, but even so, life is not easy.
这次生活停摆的幅度，或许是和平时代下二十多岁的我们经历过的最大的一次。
The magnitude of this respite is perhaps the largest we have ever experienced in our twenties.
“后悔没有回家吗？” 我问Astrid。
'' Regret not coming home? 'I asked Astrid.
电话那头她好像有句话马上要冲出口，但又给咽回去了。
At the other end of the line she seemed to have a word about to go out, but she was swallowed again.
她想了想，冷静地说：“综合的话，没有说庆幸还是遗憾，我觉得我目前选择是正确的。
She thought for a moment, said calmly: "On the whole, did not say happy or sorry, I think I am the right choice at present.
我有工作在这边，24 号武汉封城，25 号我家也封了，那我就回不来了。
I have a job here, 24 Wuhan closed, 25 my home closed, then I can not go back.
第二是春运我回湖北，难免会在路上遇到感染的人，即使我年轻我抵抗力好没有被感染，那我也有可能把病毒带回家，这也是我当时下定决心把机票取消的原因，我觉得是对的。
The second is spring transport I returned to Hubei, will inevitably encounter infected people on the road, even if I am young I resistance good not to be infected, then I may also take the virus home, which is why I decided to cancel the ticket, I think is right.
”这个答案正确、理性。
The answer is correct and rational.
“但如果是他们感染了需要我照顾的，那我肯定不管了, 肯定回去。
"But if they're infected and need me to take care of them, I'm sure I don't care.
” 她补了一句。
'she added.
在世界的另一端看着家乡成为疫区，心里必然是不好受的。
At the other end of the world to see his hometown become an epidemic area, the heart is bound to feel uncomfortable.
她现在每天睁眼的第一件事就是看十堰增加了多少病例，有什么新闻，一边心酸一边看。
She now open her eyes every day the first thing is to see how many cases of Shiyan, what news, while sad to see.
春节是个团聚的日子，灾难下的春节即使不能同庆，本来可以的话，也希望有难能一起扛。
Spring Festival is a reunion day, even if the Spring Festival under the disaster can not be celebrated, if you could, also hope that difficulties can be carried together.
但说到底，距离摆眼前，海外 “留守” 的人更多的只能做个旁观者：听说哪个家人轻微感冒了，哪个朋友今天有点烧了，哪家医院又没有床位去不了了。
But in the end, those left behind are more likely to be bystanders: those with a slight cold, those with a slight fever today, and those without beds.
而实际能做的，撑死只是多看点手机、多发点消息。
And the actual can do, die just to see more mobile phones, multi-point messages.
“我每天都给他们（家人）发微信，特别是 23 号封城以后。
"I write letters to them every day, especially after the 23 closure.
新闻啊、朋友圈有用的消息啊、普及病毒的知识啊、怎么防护、怎么饮食、怎么戴口罩、怎么增强免疫力…… 我有个仅对家人可见的朋友圈，我发现那三四天我特疯狂，一看到有用的就往上传，一天十几条消息。
News, friends useful information ah, universal knowledge of the virus ah, how to protect, how to eat, how to wear masks, how to strengthen immunity... I have a circle of friends only visible to my family.
” Astrid 说。
'said Astrid.
和家人的聊天记录，图片来自 Astrid现在是澳洲大学的假期，Astrid 的工作是在一家叫 Urbanest 的商业学生公寓。
Astrid is on vacation at the University of Australia and Astrid's job is in a business student apartment called Urbanest.
那里面住的中国学生不少，二月份临近开学，原本应该是入住的高峰期，现在却因为新冠和封关变得冷清。
Many Chinese students there, who were due to arrive at the start of school in February, are now out of touch with new crowns and closures.
“有一个 2 月 1 号早上来 check-in 的，早上 10 点到，封关和隔离的政策是下午。
There's a check-in on the morning of February 1st, and the policy of sealing and isolating is in the afternoon.
我们就和他说你需要隔离 14 天了，他说 ‘好’。
We told him you'd be quarantined for 14 days, and he said 'OK'.
”这样一句轻描淡写的 “好” ，也不知道背后藏的是什么样的心情。
Such an understatement is "good," and I don't know what's behind it.
天天是我宿舍的另一位朋友，“有幸” 在澳洲封海关之前从北京飞回悉尼，但现在正在被宿舍要求一个人自我隔离，14 天不能出门，不能和宿舍的其他人接触，日常用品和吃的全部从网上订，拿外卖只能用宿舍后门。
But now he is being asked by his dormitory to isolate himself, not to go out for 14 days, to have no contact with the rest of the dormitory, to book all his daily necessities and food online, and to use the back door of the dorm for take-out.
“那每天都干嘛呢？” 我问她。
"What do you do every day?" I asked her.
“看课外书，和家人朋友视频。
"Out-of-class books, videos with family and friends.
”“心里觉得还好不？”“挺压抑的，不过有时也挺安静的。
"Is it all right in my heart?" "It's very depressing, but sometimes it's quite quiet.
我是佛教徒，我们每天都要诵心经和祈愿文回向，这个比较支撑我吧。
I am a Buddhist, we have to recite the Heart Sutra and pray the text back every day, this comparison supports me.
”天天最近读的书，图片来自天天大夏天的澳洲蜘蛛虫子多，她今天突然发消息说在浴室发现了个蜘蛛，但都没法找人来帮忙，我也只能远程、好像很不走心地和她说句 “小心点”。
A spider in the bathroom was spotted in the bathroom, but I could not find anyone to help, and I had to say "be careful" remotely, as if unknowingly, she said.
被卡在国内的人羡慕那些在国外的能够照常上学，身在国外的心酸国内的有家人陪伴。
People stuck at home envy those abroad who are able to go to school as usual, and those who are abroad are accompanied by their families.
我们都爱比较，看着别人的都觉得更好。
We all love to compare, and those who look at others feel better.
不过天天和我说：“我一直觉得世界上没有完美的地方，或者说每个地方都是完美的，自由对于我来说也不是在哪里，得在自己的内心找。
But I said to me every day: "I have always felt that there is no perfect place in the world, or that every place is perfect, and freedom is not where I am, but in my own heart.
国内国外各有好处吧，在国内有家人的陪伴和熟悉的一切，在这边就是靠独立和慎独。
At home and abroad have their own advantages, in the domestic family's company and familiar with everything, on this side is independent and cautious.
”在这篇文章写到一半的时候，我收到学校宿舍给我发的邮件，大意是由于新冠的爆发，让我在 48 小时内决定是否取消新学期的入住预定，不决定的话 3 天后起是 1000 澳币的退款费，10 天后就是已经交了的一学期房租直接打水漂。
Halfway through the article, I received an email from my dorm to the effect that the new cap would give me 48 hours to decide whether or not to cancel my booking for the new semester.
自觉是要 “流落街头” 了，我不抱希望地回了封邮件问，“现在这个情况实在说不准，能不能延期？” 没想到他们很快回了信，说会考虑我的提议，而且会 ASAP 再和我沟通。
Conscious of the need to "live on the street," I replied to an e-mail asking hopelessly, "Can I extend the deadline for this situation?" I did not expect them to reply soon, saying they would consider my offer and communicate with me again in SAP.
希望这个 ASAP 是个好兆头吧，这个阴沉沉的天，请赶快亮。
Hope this ASAP is a good omen, this gloomy day, please be quick bright.
// 编辑：Alexwood在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Editor: In this epidemic, have you ever been forced to change your habits, what new relationships have you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections you have gained? If you have any ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了。
As a foreign student staying at home, I am afraid I will be out of school.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "作为一个滞留国内的留学生，我担心自己要失学了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "封关、机票取消、限境令，一两天的功夫，我就回不去了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; customs, airline ticket cancellations, border restrictions, and in a day or two I won't be back.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '花伦朱明康：我被封锁在家，弹一把缺弦的红棉牌吉他',。
Hua Ren Zhu Mingkang: I was locked up at home playing a defective Cotton Guitar & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '妈妈的坚韧和幽默，依旧能够带给我们力量',。
A: My mother's fortitude and humor still gives us strength and humor.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '作为个体，我们至少可以思考',。
At least as individuals, we should have thought about & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
