花伦朱明康：我被封锁在家，弹一把缺弦的红棉牌吉他。
HUALON CHU Mingkang: I was locked up at home, playing a guitar with a missing string.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
疫情刚开始的时候，我们还没想到形势会发展成后来那样，那时我们只是对湖北籍的朋友致以了常规关心，回去了吗？家里没事吧？注意安全。
At the beginning of the outbreak, we did not expect the situation to develop into that later, when we just extended the usual concern to Hubei friends, go back? Is home all right? Attention to safety.
年后见。
See you later.
但日子翻得一天比一天艰难。
But the days get harder and harder day by day.
中国的中心省份被完全封锁，千家万户亲朋挚友隔绝禁足，身在湖北的朋友短短几天之间就与我们之间隔着巨大的不确定性河流。
China's central provinces are completely sealed off, families, friends and relatives are isolated, friends in Hubei in a matter of days between us across a huge river of uncertainty.
每一个人都在风暴眼里，但还有一些人更在风暴中心的湍流之中。
Everyone was in the eye of the storm, but others were more in the middle of the storm.
我们尽管担心自己的安危，但也无法漠视他们的处境。
While we fear for our own safety, we cannot ignore their situation.
花伦乐队的吉他手朱明康就是其中的一位朋友，他是我们的老同事。
Chu Mingkang, a Hualien guitarist, is one of them. He is our old colleague.
两年前，他离开北京在深圳工作，之后每次回到北京都是为乐队录音。
Two years ago, he left Beijing to work in Shenzhen. Every time he returned to Beijing, he recorded for the band.
上次见到他，是去年野格猎声现场的录制。
Last time I saw him, it was a recording of a mug hunt last year.
Play一别后再联系，他已在累计报告确诊病例 711 例的湖北宜昌（截至 2 月 9 日 11 时）被封锁了十五天，既然 “时间多得是”，我们就请他说了说这十几天来心里想的那些事。
Play, who has been locked up for 15 days in Yichang, Hubei province (as of 11: 00 on Feb. 9), where 711 confirmed cases have been reported, has invited him to say what he has been thinking about for the past ten days.
以下是他的自述。
The following is his account of himself.
新春平安，别的朋友们。
Peace in the New Year, other friends.
我现在在湖北宜昌，经历了封城和市内禁行，已经十天没出门了。
I am now in Yichang, Hubei, after the closure of the city and the city ban, has not been out for 10 days.
回程时本想带上吉他，春节没事呆家里弹弹琴的，但春节回家前有一点焦虑，加上去年下半年我妈刚做了一个大手术，想着早点回去陪陪家人，机票又是半夜出发的，连公司年会都没参加，到家才发现忘带了吉他。
I wanted to take my guitar with me on my return trip. However, I felt a little anxious before I got home for the Spring Festival. I just had a big operation late last year.
朱明康用的一把 Fender 的日产 Jazzmaster我回宜昌的第二天，武汉就宣布开始封城了。
The day after I returned to Yichang, Wuhan announced the opening of the city.
我的第一反应是，原来疫情比我们在电视里、网上了解到的信息要更严重。
My first reaction was that the epidemic was more serious than what we had learned on television and on the Internet.
先关心了一下还在武汉上班的几个老朋友，有的在行政机关工作，有的在医疗行业做药品生意，他们回复的信息没带表情包，很严肃，也愤怒，担忧。
After paying attention to some old friends who still work in Wuhan, some are working in the administration, others are in the pharmaceutical business, they reply with no expressive bag, very serious, angry and worried.
武汉封城后的一两天，宜昌这边的县市也开始警惕起来，陆续有地方政府的微信号发布疫情和预防消息。
Wuhan sealed the city after a day or two, Yichang this side of the county also began to be vigilant, local governments have been issued micro-signal epidemic and prevention messages.
那几天我还照常出了门，给家人准备年货。
On those days I went out as usual to prepare New Year's goods for my family.
紧接着，我发现当地的年轻人开始戴口罩了，我去了药店两次，终于也买到了口罩，跟家人科普了防御措施，叮嘱亲戚们不要出门晃。
Then I noticed that the local young people started wearing masks. I went to the pharmacy twice and finally got a mask. I told my family not to go out.
但直到大年初二，街上的老人们才都纷纷戴上口罩。
But it wasn't until the second day of New Year that old people on the street put on masks.
初三开始我们这边的道路交通封闭、禁行，三峡机场也发布了关闭机场的通知，然后街上就完全没人了。
At the beginning of the third day of our side of the road closed, banned, the Three Gorges Airport issued a notice of closure, and then the streets were completely empty.
我回宜昌是跟我爸妈一起住。
I went back to Yichang to live with my parents.
妈妈刚做完手术处于恢复期，需要休息一年，所以去年大半年来，我爸妈平时也几乎不出门，他们相对比较适应宅着。
Mom just finished the operation in the convalescent period, need to rest for a year, so last year for most of the year, my parents almost do not go out, they are relatively accustomed to the house.
虽然他们不懂 “宅” 是什么意思。
Although they don't know what "house" means.
这一阵电视比较苦一点，家里的电视已经被看坏了，年后还得换。
This is a bit bitter television, the family TV has been damaged, after the year had to be replaced.
照片由受访者提供你那天问我怎么样，我说 “困在家里生闷气”，我也在想这闷气是从哪来的。
The photos were taken by people who asked me how you were the other day, I said "stuck at home sulking," and I wondered where the smog came from.
如果是一个明白人的话，都会有一种情绪吧，这个春节的心情确实很复杂。
If is a sensible white person, will have a mood, this Spring Festival mood is really very complex.
社交网络上的信息轰炸，是社会情绪的大规模爆发，也是群体精神状态的折射。
The social network information bombing, is the social emotion large-scale outburst, also is the group spirit state refraction.
抛开国家层面的那些上层建筑来说，这让我不得不反思我所处的行业和日常生活。
Leaving aside the superstructure at the national level, it forced me to reflect on my profession and daily life.
一方面，我的家乡疫情严重，人们身处恐慌无力和绝望，而身处天南地北的一些同事还开着玩笑说着段子，朋友圈里向往精致生活的 “朋友” 依然发着自己远离病毒的海外生活。
On the one hand, my hometown is serious, people are in panic and helpless, and some colleagues in the north and south are joking and saying, "friends" in the circle of friends yearning for a fine life still live abroad free from the virus.
这几年很多人不是热衷于讨论感情、职场里的 “同理心” 吗，但是在面对真实的生活和灾难时，它们还有意义吗？当然，我没有权力去指责谁、干涉谁，毕竟这是每个人自己的生活，我肯定希望大家都能过得平安舒适，远离疾病灾难。
These years many people are not keen to talk about emotions, empathy in the workplace, but do they make sense in the face of real life and disaster? Of course, I have no right to blame anyone, to meddle in whom, after all, it is everyone's life.
我们可以从物理上隔离病毒，但精神污染没办法隔离，这包括我们在这期间看到的一切有关消费灾难的丑陋言行。
We can physically isolate the virus, but there is no way to isolate mental pollution, which includes all the ugly things we saw during that time about consumer disasters.
我知道并不是所有人都会在乎 “清醒地活着” 这件事，但我很害怕这场灾难过后，大家若无其事地在办公楼下抽烟，谈论自己的房贷、婚姻生活，各自的幸和不幸，继续把自己当猪。
I know that not everyone will care about living sober, but I am afraid that after the disaster, everyone will smoke in the office building, talk about their mortgage, their marriage life, their own luck and misfortune, and continue to think of themselves as pigs.
“佛系” 和 “魔幻” 正在毁掉一代人的精气神，愿意独立思考的人越来越少了。
"Buddhism" and "magic" are destroying the spirit of a generation, less and less willing to think independently.
另外，最近两年谈论最多的是关于各种互联网下沉的话题，但当我看到网上各地预防疫情的 “硬核标语” 时，我才知道真正够沉的还是这些镇里、村里和寨子里的乡村老百姓。
Also, the most talked-about topics over the past two years have been about the sinking of the internet, but when I saw "hard core signs" around the Internet to prevent the epidemic, I knew that it was the people in the towns, villages and stockade who were really heavy.
坐在办公室里策划下沉方案只是闭门造车罢了。
Sitting in the office planning a sinking plan is all about shutting the door.
大部分时间陪着爸妈放着电视剧，然后在家办公。
Most of the time with my parents to play TV, and then work from home.
我在 QQ 音乐旗下的音乐播放平台 MOO，主要负责里面的专题内容，包括歌单、采访类的。
I am in QQ music music broadcast platform MOO, mainly responsible for the contents of the project, including singles, interviews.
春节期间的选题本来年前也准备了，但看到这些天的现实情况，我们每天都在调整，一方面尽可能让我们的话题里有价值色彩，避免那些空洞不疼不痒的内容，同时也会选一些正向鼓励和缓解大家情绪焦虑的音乐选题。
In the Spring Festival, the topic of choice was prepared a few years ago, but to see the reality of these days, we are adjusting, on the one hand, to make our topic as valuable as possible, to avoid the empty and insensitive content, but also to select some music topics that are encouraging and allaying the anxiety of everyone.
包括祝福大武汉、这个春节的感受、宅家系列等等，“如何增强在家办公的舒适氛围”、“我向往的小镇生活”、“脏辫男女孩的音乐听起来怎么样” 什么的，我最喜欢的是 “回归极简生活” 那个歌单，还有年前编辑好吃和大热狗做的专题“把年会砍到只剩下抽奖这个环节吧”。
This includes wishing Wuhan, the feeling of the Spring Festival, the homestead series and so on, "How to enhance the comfort of working from home," "My dream town life," "How does the music of dirty braided boys and girls sound" or something.
“当时在刷 Facebook，看一下新闻”，结果看到了来自 Massive Attack 发布的关于 Andy Gill 去世的消息。
"I was brushing Facebook, looking at the news," and I saw news from Massive Attack about Andy Gill's death.
MOO 在 Gang of Four 的 Andy Gill 去世的那天也推了关于他的歌单。
MOO also pushed a song about Andy Gill on the day he died in Gang of Four.
我那天晚上刚看完《爱尔兰人》，看到 Andy 死了的消息还难过了一阵。
I had just finished watching Irish that night, and it was hard to see the news of Andy's death.
记得上一次分享他的歌，是刚忙完 VICE 中国 APP 上线的时候，听了首《Damaged Goods》。
Remember the last time I shared his songs, I heard Damaged Goods when I was busy putting my VICE Chinese APP online.
但是发现在这个时期也没什么人在乎 Andy 死了，连科比死了大家都不得不接受，更何况 Andy。
But finding out that few people care about Andy's death during this period, even if Kobe is dead, everyone has to accept it, especially Andy.
接下来的几年可能有更多我们多年追随、信奉的人相继离开，想到这个我很沮丧。
I am dismayed to think that the next few years may see many more of the people we have followed and believed in over the years.
再看看我们国家这边，垮掉的一代。
And here we go, Beat generation.
这个时候乐队生活比较靠后。
Band life is a little behind at this time.
我奶奶怕我无聊，给我从柜子里翻出来一把红棉牌的木吉他，是之前一个长辈玩过的，跟烧火棍差不多，弹不了还少根弦。
My grandma, afraid of my boredom, pulled out a hand-me-cotton wooden guitar from the cupboard. It had been played by an elder before.
我花了一下午时间把它改造了一下，最近偶尔就在家瞎弹这把琴。
I spent the afternoon working on it, and I've been playing it around the house now and then.
穿越时间的红棉吉他派上了用场花伦的成员里，我跟丁茂回宜昌了，Rubey 刚从老家西安返回北京，因为他要提前为他自己经营的 Zamami 居酒屋做准备了，对居酒屋老板来说未来几个月的日子可能比较难熬。
The cotton-and-red-cotton guitar that crosses time is on the map. Ding and I have just returned to Yichang. Rubey has just returned to Beijing from his hometown of Xi'an, as he prepares ahead of time for the Zamami House, which he runs himself.
贝斯手王伟和鼓手王旭也都还呆在老家呢，我猜这时王伟应该宅家带娃，王旭正在更新他的 “野点电台”。
Both Bess player Wang Wei and drummer Wang Xu are still at home, and I guess Wang Wei should be taking them with him while Wang Xu updates his "Wild Point Radio".
年前我们计划过，不出意外的话，今年会准备一张很不一样的新专辑。
We planned to have a very different album this year, if not surprisingly.
在非常时期，如果大家呆在家里各自安好的话，会有心情去欣赏我们喜欢的音乐，但对于战斗在一线、活在恐惧里的病人和家属来说，它毫无意义。
In an emergency, if we stay at home, we will be in the mood to enjoy our favorite music, but it means nothing to the sick and families fighting on the front lines, living in fear.
对于身处外围的旁观者来说，它已经变成了一种释放情绪的作秀工具。
For bystanders on the periphery, it has become a show tool for letting off steam.
看看最近内地新发布的加油新歌吧，抛开艺术感不说，真正需要加油和鼓励的人，会听这些东西吗？内心渴望获得力量和勇气的人会需要这些吗？微博上一个坂本龙一的采访恰好谈到这件事，他完全知道音乐的真实力量，所以他从来不滥用这种力量和影响。
Take a look at the new songs recently released by the Mainland to cheer us up. Will anyone who really needs encouragement and encouragement listen to these things, regardless of their artistic feelings? Does anyone with inner desire for strength and courage need them?
同时我也不希望教授在中国被解读得特别低龄化和偶像化。
And I don't want professors to be interpreted as particularly young and iconic in China.
说实话，看到那些奋斗在一线的人们、那些破碎的家庭和城市，我实在不知道能为他们做点什么，但我知道这个时刻不该做什么。
To be honest, I don't know what I can do for people on the ground, for broken homes and cities, but I know what I shouldn't do at this moment.
汶川地震那次，我们还年轻，很快在武汉 VOX 发起了一个募捐演出，尽了一份微薄之力。
Wenchuan earthquake, we were young, soon launched a fund-raising performance in Wuhan VOX, do a modest effort.
但现在，我想我们会用别的方式为这座城市做点什么。
But right now, I think we'll do something else for the city.
希望和我一样的 “被隔离和封锁的人” 不要乱跑，好好在家把身体养好，借着这个时间好好重新一下认识自己，认识自己所处的环境，计划接下来要做的事是否有意义。
Hopefully, like me, the "quarantined and blockaded" don't run around and get well at home. It's a great time to get to know yourself again, to understand your environment, to plan for what's next.
每次回到宜昌，我都会去江边溜达一圈，这次结束封城之后，我想骑着自行车出去春游，好好体验一下健康的世界是怎样的。
Every time I go back to Yichang, I go for a walk around the river. After the closure of the city, I want to go for a spring outing on my bike to experience what a healthy world looks like.
另外把朋友圈好好清理一下，因为有些人实在太傻逼了。
Also clean up your circle of friends, because some people are just too stupid.
但这不太重要，现在没有什么有关疫情失控的坏消息就是一件值得高兴的事，对吗？// 采访、编辑：刘阳子在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / In this outbreak, have you ever been forced to change your habits, what new relationships have you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections you have gained? If you have any ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
花伦朱明康：我被封锁在家，弹一把缺弦的红棉牌吉他。
HUALON CHU Mingkang: I was locked up at home, playing a guitar with a missing string.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "花伦朱明康：我被封锁在家，弹一把缺弦的红棉牌吉他";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我很害怕这场灾难过后，大家若无其事地在办公楼下抽烟，谈论自己的房贷、婚姻生活，各自的幸和不幸，继续把自己当猪。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I was afraid that at the end of the disaster, everyone had casually smoked under the office building, talked about their mortgages, married life, and, fortunately and unhappily, continued to treat themselves as pigs.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '妈妈的坚韧和幽默，依旧能够带给我们力量',。
A: My mother's fortitude and humor still gives us strength and humor.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '作为个体，我们至少可以思考',。
At least as individuals, we should have thought about & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '我从没想到，另一个普通人的死对我的震撼会那么大',。
I never imagined that the death of another ordinary person might have shaken my service so much.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
