作为个体，我们至少可以思考。
As individuals, we can at least think.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
年前，我把手里剩下的工作赶了赶，提前几天就坐上了回家的高铁。
A few days ago, I rushed the rest of my work and got on the high-speed train home a few days early.
像往常一样，我打算利用离开北京的这段时间，反思和整理一下自己，以便准备充分地迎接春天。
As usual, I intend to take advantage of my time away from Beijing to reflect on and organize myself so as to be ready for the spring.
坐在列车的座位上，许多关于 “明年” 的想法在脑中涌现，我有些兴奋，拿出笔，试图把它们理顺。
Sitting on the train seat, a lot of ideas about "next year" came to mind. I got a little excited and took out my pen and tried to straighten it out.
想不到的是，这张纸上记录的文字在两天之后就显得不合时宜甚至可笑了。
To my surprise, the written words on the paper seemed out of place and even ridiculous two days later.
关于灾难的消息到来的方式也是灾难式的。
The way news of disaster arrives is also disastrous.
我被卷进了信息的漩涡里，停不下来，情绪被屏幕控制着，对世界和自我的疑问纠缠在一起。
I was caught up in the whirlpool of information, unable to stop, emotionally controlled by the screen, the world and self-doubt entangled.
“____ 到底有什么意义？” 这句话换着主语不断进入我的意识层面，我发现自己能做的事情竟都如此没用，我不知道当下该做什么，甚至不知道应该怎么开始这一年了。
What is the meaning of _ _ _? "As the subject continued to enter my consciousness, I found that everything I could do was so useless that I did not know what to do now, or even how to start the year.
强制自己放下手机之后，理智才开始慢慢复苏，几乎被全盘否定了的自我又开始慢慢得到一些正名。
After forcing myself to put down the phone, reason slowly began to recover, and the almost total negation of self began to gain some legitimacy.
我尝试回到正常的生活里，疫情面前我帮不上忙，但几近停摆的城市不需要又一个停摆的个体。
I tried to go back to normal life, and I couldn't help in the face of the epidemic, but a city that was almost at a standstill did not need another individual to stop.
我第一次明白经历灾难或许才是人生的默认状态，该做的是带着脑子和勇气去度过它。
For the first time, I understood that suffering may be the default state of life, and that what I should do is to live it with brains and courage.
我逐渐开始跟周围的朋友交流这段时间的想法，我看到大家也在混乱中努力抛出自己的锚，让自己稳住，这也给了我鼓励。
As I began to share the thoughts of that time with friends around me, I was encouraged that everyone was trying to throw their anchor in the chaos.
灾难面前，个体的力量很小，但我们至少还可以思考。
In the face of disaster, individual strength is small, but we can at least think.
而这一件事情当中恰有太多的事情需要我们去思考，然后才能记住，才能修补，才能进步，才能或许抵御下一次灾难。
And there is so much to think about in this case that we can remember, repair, progress, and perhaps resist the next catastrophe.
我们向艺术行业内的年轻朋友们发出邀请（因为艺术是多么的“没用”，也因为他们是我所认识的最爱思考的一群人），听听他们在过去两周的心路历程，对疫情，对自己的思考。
We invite our young friends in the arts industry (because art is so "useless" and because they are the most thoughtful people I know) to hear what they have been thinking about over the past two weeks, about the epidemic, about themselves.
几位受访者都提到了连结的力量，我们也希望能连结更多的人，希望更多的人愿意去观察、体会和反思，并坚定自己所要做的事。
Several interviewees mentioned the power of connection, and we hope to reach out to more people who are willing to observe, experience and reflect, and to be firm in what they are going to do.
当下，我们还不知道疫情什么时候会被控制住，我们惦念着疫情影响中的人，这是混沌中的思考，一段时间之后，它也许还会继续变化。
At the moment, we do not know when the epidemic will be contained, we are thinking of those affected by the epidemic, it is thinking in chaos, and it may continue to change over time.
覃小诗艺术家过去的两周好像过山车一样。
Tandem Artists The past two weeks are like a roller coaster.
两周前参加香港大馆的 Booked 艺术书展，也和机构的工作人员碰面确认下一个展览。
I attended the Booked Art Book Fair at the Hong Kong Pavilion two weeks ago and also met with staff of the institution to confirm the next exhibition.
流感时节，过关的时候两边的职员都已经戴上口罩了，电梯也蒙上塑料膜开始消毒程序。
Flu season, when both sides of the staff have been wearing masks, the elevator also began to disinfect plastic film procedures.
因为早前在新闻上了解到了流感大爆发，为了预防流感我也提前戴上了口罩。
I also put on a mask early in case of flu because I learned about the flu outbreak on the news earlier.
没想到防流感的口罩用到了后来。
Unexpectedly, the flu mask was used later.
因为疫情，过年没回家，一开始的时候叫家人做好防护措施，但没人听， 感到无力。
Because of the epidemic, the New Year did not go home, at the beginning of the family to take protective measures, but no one heard, feel powerless.
最近的日常就是在不停刷新闻，卷入了信息的漩涡。
These days, everyday life is all about brushing the news and getting caught up in the whirlpool of information.
最多的一天我发了 36 条朋友圈。
On the biggest day I sent out 36 circles of friends.
尽管如此，还是感受到信息作为资源它的分配是那么不均等。
Nevertheless, it is felt that the distribution of information as a resource is so uneven.
幸好家旁边有山，在几乎无人的山里，水库边观察水的纹路，风里听虫和鸟的语言。
Fortunately, there are mountains next to home, in the almost empty mountains, the reservoir side to observe the lines of water, the wind in the language of insects and birds.
后来，误入了一道废弃的封锁线，在阳光慷慨抛洒自己的山间美景之中我最怕的竟然是人。
Later, mistakenly into an abandoned blockade, in the sun generously sprinkle their beautiful scenery between the mountains, I was afraid of people.
广州南沙的山，图片由覃小诗提供这种大家一起失眠，感觉很累，充满无力感，一起哭泣的时刻经历了好几次，每一次我都从中学到了新的东西。
The mountain in Nansha, Guangzhou, pictures provided by Tandem Poetry provide this common insomnia, feeling very tired, full of powerlessness, crying together the moment has gone through several times, each time I learned something new.
我现在一愤怒就去工作。
I go to work in a fit of anger.
如果感到无力，可以做些简单自己动手力所能及的事情，制作一个物件，P 个图，画个画，做个饭。
If you feel powerless, do something simple, do what you can, make an object, make a diagram, draw a picture, or make a meal.
看到各地武汉人被封门的时候，我做了个虚拟横幅 “今天全国对武汉嗤之以鼻，明日世界对中国避之不及”，希望不要有歧视，大家都是普通人，不容易。
Seeing Wuhan people everywhere sealed off, I made a virtual banner: "Today the country sniffs at Wuhan, tomorrow the world shuns China", hope there is no discrimination, everyone is ordinary, not easy.
那时，WHO 还没宣布进入 PHEIC，后来这个明日就到来了。
By that time, the WHO had not announced its entry into PHEIC, and that would come tomorrow.
覃小诗制作的虚拟横幅这些年想到艺术到底有什么用的时候太多。
Tandem Poetry produces virtual banners that think too much about what art is all about these years.
前些年学校发动全校建立了基因药物的特别工作组，有各理科工科以及法律哲学系，唯独没有艺术。
A few years ago, schools launched a school-wide task force on genetic drugs, with science and technology and the Faculty of Legal Philosophy, with the exception of art.
但后来班上同学 Emma Sulkowics 为强奸事件站出来，扛着床垫来上课的时候， 我又觉得艺术作用很大。
But when Emma Sulkowics, a classmate, came out with a mattress on her shoulders for the rape, I found art very useful.
因为我清楚地记得在本科遇到同样事情的同学站出来的时候如何沦为笑柄。
Because I vividly remember how students who met the same thing in undergraduate course of study were laughed at when they came out.
前年还问过一个艺术家，战争的时候还会有艺术吗？他说，有，但不是我们现在看到的这种。
Asked an artist the year before last whether there would be art in time of war? Yes, he said, but not the kind we see now.
而最近一次问这个问题在不久之前，朋友给出了各种充满希望的答案，于是眼泪掉进酒里。
The last time I asked this question was not long ago, my friend gave me all kinds of hopeful answers and tears fell into the wine.
去年参加的一个奖项，认识了不少艺术家朋友，可怕的是，我们的作品就像预言一样，一个接一个地应验了。
Last year participated in an award, met a lot of artist friends, the terrible thing is, our work like a prophecy, one by one, the realization.
覃小诗推荐的精神食量：《Noein - 到另一个你的身边去》，图片来自网络陈逸云艺术家别的：过去的两周你在哪里？是如何度过的？陈逸云：我从常住的上海回到厦门的家过年。
Tandem's Recommended Spiritual Eating: Noein - Go to Another You, by Chen Yiyun, an online artist: Where have you been for the past two weeks? How did you spend it? Chen Yiyun: I returned to my family in Xiamen from my usual Shanghai residence for the New Year.
年前的大部分时间精力，都花在向父母家人说明，疫情是真实的，防护的意识与措施是必要的。
Most of the time and energy was spent explaining to my parents and family that the outbreak was real and that awareness and measures of protection were necessary.
我的说明动用了平常与他们沟通用的数据和现象，还有我鲜少使用的音量和眼泪。
My instructions use data and phenomena that I normally use to communicate with them, as well as volume and tears that I seldom use.
我意识到家人接收信息渠道与我的差异，是他们不相信事实是事实的原因。
I realized the difference between the way my family received the information and the fact that they didn't believe it was the truth.
后来我发现这种信息的不可达性在整个疫情的大面积传播中，都成为了事情的关键。
Later I discovered that the unreachability of this information was the key to the spread of the epidemic over a wide area.
而音量与眼泪，也成了整个疫情中让个体被看见的必要方式之一。
Volume and tears, too, have become one of the necessary ways for individuals to be seen throughout the epidemic.
陈逸云在老家的临时办公桌这段时间里，你在社交网络上查看信息或者发布信息吗？我一直在看信息。
During his time at his temporary desk in his hometown, did you check out or post information on social networking sites? I was reading information all the time.
可能因为我之前在医院和研究室短暂实习过，对病情本身有一些训练过的冷静。
Perhaps because I had a short internship in the hospital and research room, I had some training in the illness itself.
虽然难受，但直视和承认疾病是必须的，直视才能去解决，病本身不可怕。
Although afflictive, but open-eye and admit disease is necessary, can solve directly, the disease itself is not terrible.
但这次疫情当中，关于疾病以外的事情太多了，我很困惑，还在努力理解每一层信息。
But there is so much more to the epidemic than illness, and I'm confused and trying to understand every level of information.
从疫情爆发至今，整个事件中，给你最大感触的是什么？这次的疫情（或者说所有的疾病），分为疾病本身和与人性、社会相关的部分。
What has touched you most from the outbreak to the present? This outbreak (or all diseases) is divided into the disease itself and the human and social components.
我对病毒本身不是很恐惧。
I'm not afraid of the virus itself.
疾病本身是单纯的，疾病-研究-诊断-治疗-预防，现代医疗有丰富的经验，可以建立起明确的标准、流程，就能够清晰地执行，确保大部分人大概率的安全。
The disease itself is simple, disease-research-diagnosis-treatment-prevention, and modern medicine has extensive experience in establishing clear standards, procedures that can be clearly implemented to ensure the safety of the majority of the population.
我本来以为这次传染病也是这样，可以专业而清晰。
I thought it would be the same with this epidemic, professional and clear.
而疾病复杂的原因在于它紧紧和人性与社会交缠，交织了身体的疾病和社会的疾病。
The reason for the complexity of disease is that it is closely intertwined with human nature and society, intertwined with diseases of the body and social diseases.
我对这些本不算太陌生，过去几年做的项目都跟疾病话题相关：疾病中的人，疾病者和弱者的社会地位和社会关联。
I'm not new to these, and the projects I've done over the past few years are all about disease: people in disease, the social status and social connections of the sick and the weak.
在这些项目里，因为和疾病共情，会连接到生命力的弱，连接身处社会边缘的暗淡，让我感觉自己也可能一同陷入衰败渺小中。
In these projects, because empathy with disease connects to the weakness of vitality, the dimness of connection to the margins of society, I feel as if I too may be in decline and diminution.
可能这次疫情里好多人也会有类似的感受，突然共情大量苦难的人。
Perhaps a lot of people in this outbreak will have similar feelings, sudden empathy for a large number of suffering people.
而我一直企图去理解这种残忍是生命自然本身的残忍，还是社会人工的残忍？想指出疾病者的弱除了疾病天然的弱，更是人工加之的本无必要的弱。
And I have been trying to understand whether this cruelty is the cruelty of nature itself, or the cruelty of society? To point out that the weakness of the sick is not only the natural weakness of disease, but also the needless weakness of man.
这种裹挟让疾病、疾病者真正弱了下去。
This kind of blackmail lets the disease, the disease person really weakens.
我最关心的还是这些被外力弱化的病人们。
I am most concerned about these patients who are weakened by external forces.
但这次疫情，有很多原本我以为跟疾病整个话题没有关系的事情，令我感到陌生，需要重建认知，它们好像在这次疫情中尤其成为了社会疾病的病因。
But the epidemic, with so many things I thought had nothing to do with the disease as a whole, made me feel strange and needed to rebuild my knowledge, as if they were a particular cause of social disease in this outbreak.
我意识到除了我所关注的病人们之外，我们每个人都可能成为被外力弱化的人们，这是新的感触。
I realized that, in addition to the patients I care about, each of us could be weakened by outside forces, and that was a new feeling.
作为一名艺术从业者，你怀疑过自己的价值吗？我以为不做项目的时候可以透透气，没想到，项目里的那些状态在最近的疫情里又都大面积活生生地出现着，让人不得不直视。
As an art practitioner, have you ever doubted your worth? I thought I would be able to breathe without a project, but I didn't realize that the conditions in the project had come to life in the most recent outbreak, and I had to look straight in the face.
这次看到这些数量庞大的病人和相关个体，不是在我亲自待过的医院、养老院、研究所、实验室；也不在我亲自经历过的家里、朋友家里。
This time I saw these huge numbers of patients and related individuals, not in the hospitals, nursing homes, research institutes, labs that I had personally stayed in; nor in the homes or in the homes of friends that I had personally experienced.
而是在貌似安全平静的非疫区小城，妈妈铺的香香的碎花床单上，从小的屏幕里看到大量活生生的苦难的人。
But in the seemingly safe and tranquil small town of non-pestilence, mother's fragrant bed sheets, small screen to see a large number of living suffering people.
他们大部分离我远得很，跟我没有直接关系，只要自我隔离，我就是安全的。
Most of them are far away from me, not directly related to me, as long as self-isolation, I am safe.
只要关掉小屏幕，他们就会消失。
Just turn off the small screen and they'll disappear.
就算音量突然被一下一下按到了最大，还是可以选择一键消音。
Even if the volume is suddenly pushed to the maximum, or you can choose a key muffler.
我做与疾病相关的项目的方式，好像就是小心小声地按着音量增大键，在到达令人想静音的音量之前克制住。
The way I do disease-related projects seems to be carefully tipping up the volume key to keep it quiet until it reaches the desired volume.
我老是试图去用轻巧的方式去做，加一点幽默，撒一点俏皮，不想使用大音量，更不想自大而投机地使用眼泪。
I always try to do it in a light way, with a little humor, a little wit, no volume, and even less to speculate with tears.
我也试图抽离地去做，用抽离去避免伤害本来很中性的疾病和疾病者。
I also try to pull away from the ground to avoid harming otherwise neutral diseases and illnesses.
但我惭愧于我做得还不够好，表达得还不够好，因而缺乏力量。
But I was ashamed that I wasn't good enough, I wasn't good enough, I wasn't strong enough.
怀疑轻巧是不是一种避重就轻、故作若无其事，怀疑抽离是不是瞄不准靶心，让人无法识别。
Suspicion is not a light-hearted, pretentious, doubt whether the diversion is not aiming at the target, so that people can not identify.
尤其在与疾病零时差近距离相处的此时和当时，处理项目所用的所谓俏皮似乎也令我感到难堪。
The so-called witticism with which the project was handled seemed to embarrass me, especially at this time and at the time when I was close to zero time difference.
我质疑过艺术是不是真正有力迅速强大的方式，今天这个质疑依然存在，因此我还在摸索着。
I have questioned whether art is really powerful and powerful in a way that still exists today, so I'm still groping.
所幸疫情也让我确认做项目的意愿，讨论疾病和牵扯它的外力是必要的。
Fortunately, the outbreak also confirmed my willingness to work on the project, and it was necessary to discuss the disease and the external forces involved.
想做的事情依然是坚定的，让病不成为弱化人的原因，让有病的人不必羞耻。
Want to do things are still firm, so that the disease does not become the cause of weakened people, so that the sick people do not have to shame.
本来说要聊这些的时候，我说我非常沮丧，觉得自己做的于事无补。
When I said I was going to talk about it, I said I was depressed and thought I was doing nothing.
但聊完我想我还是要给自己和所有坚持在各个议题中一下一下试着按大音量的人一些 credits。
But I think I still have to give myself and everyone who insists on trying to keep the volume up all at once.
虽然难受，一团糟，但承认弱存在，承认病存在，试验病因，理清病理，寻找治疗方案，执行，对人的病对社会的病都是一样的，可以专业。
Although uncomfortable, messy, but admit to weak existence, acknowledge the existence of disease, test etiology, clarify pathology, find a cure, implement, human disease on society are the same, can be professional.
身体本身不是好没用的身体，人们也不是好没用的人，甚至艺术都不是好没用的艺术。
The body itself is not a good useless body, people are not good useless people, even art is not a good useless art.
我也不是好没用的我，我得要知道这点。
I'm not so useless. I need to know that.
李佳策展人，写作者我的手机程序显示，过去的两周我的屏幕使用时间分别上升了 37% 和 13%，每天差不多有 6-8 个小时花在这里。
Over the past two weeks, my screen usage has increased by 37 percent and 13 percent, respectively, spending almost six to eight hours a day, according to my mobile app.
即便除去阅读电子书、看视频的时间，在我记忆中从没有像这两周这样如同强迫症般一遍遍刷新各种社交媒体和新闻平台。
Never before in my memory have I been so obsessive-compulsive as these two weeks to refresh social media and news platforms, even after taking away the time I spent reading e-books and watching videos.
我发现身边很多朋友也是一样，群里大家的活跃时间不再像以前一样在一天中正向分布，现在，甚至是半夜 ，还会有新的发言，讨论。
I find that many of my friends are the same. The active time in the group is not as positive as it used to be. Now, even in the middle of the night, there will be new speeches and discussions.
灾难改变了生活中哪怕最微小的部分，它也让我通过这些微小事物看到正在涌现的某种巨大轮廓。
Catastrophes change even the tiniest parts of life, and they let me see through these tiny things some gigantic outline that is emerging.
忽然，我们似乎生活在一个真正的共同体里面了。
Suddenly, we seem to be living in a real community.
一个个体的情感起落，现实境遇，行动及其后果，通过一块小小的屏幕，被毫无阻滞的投射、印证，在个体和个体之间一种共振在汇聚。
The rise and fall of an individual's emotions, realities, actions, and their consequences, through a small screen, are reflected, validated, and resonated between the individual and the individual.
不仅在悲痛中，也在笑声中：从没有一个时刻，网络段子被如此广泛的流传，每个人都能读懂它，都能看到自己，这是一种共同的笑声，它的音量同悲恸的哭喊一样巨大：所有人都在其中，找到相似的期待，情感，伦理的驱力……我们的手指不仅仅是在一条条信息的微光中滑动，我们是在追寻着其他人，其他的个体，和他们一起……李佳在过去两周内的日常然而其实我并没有关于公民社会的乐观预期，我只是想确认这个共同的平面已经在我的生活中发生了意义，不是需要思考获知的意义，而是在笑声和泪水中升起的意义。
Not only in grief, but also in laughter: Never before has a web segment been so widely circulated that everyone can read it and see themselves. It is a common laugh, and its volume is as loud as the cry of grief.
确实，它给了一个我想要的答案，而这个答案不是早就在哪儿吗？过去一年中，为了说服艺术家也是说服自己，我到处引用马奈的一句话：展览的意义在于寻找我们的盟友。
Indeed, it gives me the answer I want, and is it not already there? In the past year, in order to convince artists as well as themselves, I quote Manet everywhere: The point of the exhibition is to find our allies.
为了寻找和挽住盟友的手，我们在高压下工作着，并且因为这高压而不断怀疑着自己的工作，甚至因此陷入孤独，和自否。
We work under high pressure to find and hold our allies' hands, and because of this pressure we constantly question our jobs, even leading to loneliness and self-denial.
我想讲一个我自己的例子：在疫情尚未在官方的口径中 “正式” 爆发的时候，因为一件艺术圈同仁或多或少都曾经历的事儿，我进入了一种政治抑郁。
I would like to give an example of my own: while the epidemic was not yet officially "official," I went into a kind of political depression because of something that happened to my fellow artists to a greater or lesser extent.
我一天可以躺 25 个小时，甚至 26 个，感受疼痛、愤怒和屈辱感如何随着血液流遍全身。
I can lie down 25 hours a day, or even 26, and feel pain, anger, and humiliation all over my body.
这种系统暴力的结果，是让我确认自己是一个被折辱和掌掴的个体，而我的痛苦也来自我的自我审视：作为一个从业者，我 “太嫩了”，或者，作为一个个体，我的心理素质和抗压能力 “偏低”……直到有一天，“武汉”以及这个词背后无数个体，甚至是所有个体的遭遇，命运，悲剧，以及所有个体所交汇而成的悲恸与愤怒的海洋……它切开了我作为个体的表皮，在巨流的冲刷之下，我好像重新看到了一个艺术之可能性的边界，不是个体的边界而是个体边界的敞开，它让我意识到关于人的话语并不屈服于时代的贫瘠，有些东西会不断回来，而我们工作的意义，是为之提前操练和准备，以便我们可以再次一起……李佳推荐的精神食量：图片来自李佳龙星如策展人，写作者过去的两周你在哪里？是如何度过的？几乎没有出门，情绪状态有点像学游泳。
The result of this systematic violence is that I identify myself as an individual who has been humiliated and slapped, and my pain comes from my own self-examination: As a practitioner, I am "too young" or, as an individual, I am mentally and physically "low"...
某些时候在溺水式挣扎，某些时候能浮出水面重组自己的状态。
Sometimes in the drowning struggle, some time can rise to the surface to reconstitute their state.
不断尝试回到自己的常态，不断被荒诞 beat up。
Try again and again to return to your normal self, constantly being grotesque beatup.
跟朋友聊天，感受到了互相帮助校准锚点，彼此鼓励的重要性。
Chatting with friends felt the importance of helping each other calibrate anchorages and encouraging each other.
龙星如的日常这段时间里，你在社交网络上查看信息或者发布信息吗？看，但很少发布，觉得有必要分享的，信度较高的消息会转。
Do you view information or post it on social networking sites during the day-to-day hours of Dragon Star? See, but rarely release, messages of higher reliability that feel necessary to be shared.
十分矛盾的感受，一方面觉得在这样的事件下，积极参与对信息的甄别和传递，是有必要的行动（也真的看到很多身边媒体人进行令人钦佩的工作），但另一方面，也会让自己不要掉进信息的涡轮里被带着团团转。
Conflicting feelings, on the one hand, feel that it is necessary to participate actively in the screening and delivery of information in such an event (and indeed see the admirable work of many of the media people around them), but on the other hand, allow yourself not to be carried around the information turbine.
以上指的是关于 “疾病” 的状态的信息，而关于 “人” 的报道，我认为它们极其宝贵。
This refers to information about the state of "disease," and I think they are extremely valuable for reporting on "people."
去年看到托卡尔丘克演讲里的一句话，对我影响挺深的：“世界是我们每天在信息、讨论、电影、书籍、流言蜚语和小轶事的织布机上编织的织物。
"The world is the fabric we weave every day on the loom of information, discussion, movies, books, gossip and anecdotes," says Tocalchuk in a speech he made last year.
今天，这些织布机的范围是巨大的 —— 感谢互联网，几乎每个人都可以参与这个过程，或承担责任或不，或带着爱意或满怀恨感，或好或坏。
Today, the range of looms is enormous - thanks to the Internet, where almost everyone can take part in the process, either taking responsibility or not, loving or resentful, good or bad.
” —— 感谢这织布机范围的巨大，它让一针一线都有迹可循，它内在的流淌和阻抗足够丰富时，不太容易往一个方向一去不返。
"- Thanks to the vastness of the loom, which allows a thread to follow, it is not easy to go in one direction when its internal flow and impedance are abundant enough.
有没有做些什么让自己不要失衡？每日翻译纽约新美术馆的《Net Art Anthology》（《网络艺术选集》），这是今年的工作之一。
Is there anything you can do to keep yourself from getting out of balance? This year's work is part of New York's New York Art Museum's "Net Art Strategy."
花了很多时间想象不着边际的东西，去了很多脑海中的飞地。
Spend a lot of time imagining things and going to a lot of enclaves in your head.
没有主动去为了不失衡而做什么，但确实客观因为原来很急的 deadline 突然都不那么急了，有机会更慢地做一些事情。
I didn't take the initiative to do anything to keep the balance, but it was really objective because the rush of deadline suddenly became less urgent and had a chance to do something more slowly.
（但很显然，情绪起伏也很大……）在自己的小公众号偶尔分享阅读的摘抄，或许人们看到时会暂时跳脱一下。
(But apparently, the mood swings are also huge...) In their own small public occasionally share reading excerpts, perhaps people will see a temporary jump.
从疫情爆发至今，整个事件中，给你最大感触的是什么？我原本的答案是：“要有置身其中的能力。
What have you been most impressed by the outbreak so far? My original answer was: "Be able to stay in it."
” 现在看这个答案真是不痛不痒，或许应该追问：“何为置身其中？” 人减少了流动，信息疯狂流动。
Now the answer is painless, perhaps asking: "What's in it?" People are less mobile and information flows madly.
窗外能看到快递还在运送，北京连续下了两天大雪。
Express delivery can be seen outside the window, Beijing has had two days of heavy snow.
信息空间的音量大小仿佛可以选择。
The volume of the information space seems to be optional.
关掉窗户，便仿佛不置身雪中；关掉屏幕，便仿佛不置身焦灼世界；我忍不住设想，某一天这些“开关”都将不复存在。
Shut off the windows as if you were out of the snow; turn off the screen as if you were not worried about the world; I cannot help but imagine that one day all these switches will be gone.
“置身其中” 可能从来不是个体的，是所有人的。
"Being in the middle" may never be individual, it's all human.
作为一名艺术从业者，你怀疑过自己的价值吗？现在找到一个给自己的答案了吗？一直觉得 “艺术” 是内在性格/价值，或者说一种状态，这个状态跟周遭环境不是必然相关的。
As an art practitioner, have you ever doubted your worth? Have you found an answer for yourself now? Always felt that "art" is an inner character / value, or a state that is not necessarily related to the surrounding environment.
这种广义的 “艺术”，也包含了应对和化解（自我化解）灾难的能力，但这个效用并不是当下发生的。
This broad "art" also includes the ability to cope with and defuse (self-neutralize) disasters, but this utility does not occur now.
现在如果去创作回应 “疫情” 的作品，一定会被骂蹭热点吧，想要回应现实是人的自然冲动，但现在很多事物周期太短太短，情境不太一样。
Now, if you create a work that responds to the epidemic, you are bound to be scolded and hotted. It is natural to try to respond to reality, but nowadays many things are too short and too short, the situation is different.
其实那些过去留下来的关于瘟疫，战争和灾难的创作，确实提供了一种视角 —— 我们对过去的知识，有一部分就是由 “艺术” 所保存下来的，这个功能不是现下 “解药”，更像是后置存档。
Indeed, the creations of pestilence, war, and disaster left over from the past do provide a perspective - part of our knowledge of the past is preserved by "art," a function that is not the current "antidote," but more like a post-archive.
“艺术从业” 应该指的是更为实际的生存和工作模式 —— 那么，自我怀疑这个简直占了我人生的大头，本就长期怀疑自己做的事情是不是根本没什么用。
"Artistic careers" should mean more realistic ways of living and working - so self-doubt is such a big part of my life that I've long wondered if what I'm doing is of no use at all.
虽然嘴上说着不要太纠结 “有用” / “有意义”，但在现在的局面中（尤其是看到自己以前的同学作为媒体人冲在前线时），真的会觉得自己超级没用。
While it may be tempting to say "useful" / "meaningful," in today's situation (especially when one sees one's former classmate rushing to the front as a media outlet), one really feels like a basket case.
阶段性的答案，引用那天一位朋友对我说的吧：“不要放弃精神生命。
Phrases and answers, quote a friend who said to me that day: "Don't give up your spiritual life.
” 精神生命不是岁月静好，它应该包含了对美，祥和，灵光，灾难，纠缠，混乱和痛苦的认识，对更深层次的诸相的观看，客观来说这种停摆也有点当头一棒的感觉 —— 会逼我去追问，什么是 “无论发生什么也想要去做的事情”。
Spiritual life is not a time of tranquillity, but of understanding beauty, peace, spirituality, disaster, entanglement, confusion and pain, and viewing the deeper aspects, which objectively feels like a slap in the face - will force me to ask what is "whatever you want to do whatever happens."
我相信有很多东西对世界的贡献和对人的宽慰/启发是长久的，要找到它，而且无论发生什么也要去找到它。
I believe that there is so much to contribute to the world and to comfort / inspire people, to find it, and to find it no matter what happens.
并不知道这个局面会持续多久，但我比较相信，在这个阶段我选择去思考/做的事情，大概率就是 “无论发生什么也想要去做的事情” 的一部分了。
I don't know how long this is going to last, but I am more convinced that what I choose to think / do at this stage is part of "what I want to do no matter what happens."
最后可以推荐一些精神食粮吗？奥尔加·托卡尔丘克的《太古和其他的时间》。
Can you finally recommend some spiritual food? Olga Tocalchuk's "Swire and Other Time."
图片由龙星如提供杨圆圆艺术家过去的两周你在哪里？是如何度过的？杨圆圆：一直在北京，除夕那天和家人相聚了一次，之后基本都一个人在家与猫共渡。
Where have you been in the past two weeks? How have you spent it? Yang Yuanyuan: I've been in Beijing all the time.
如今，觉得除夕的记忆画面无比遥远：那个白天，在长安街经过一片死寂的广场；晚上，春晚的虚假祥和与手机上的灾情报道折射出这个国家的平行现实，身心感到一种强烈的撕裂，于是干脆打开第三个荧幕，看韩国灾难片《流感》。
Today, the memory of New Year's Eve is so far away: during the day, as Changan Street passes through a silent square; at night, the fictitious peace of Chunwan and reports of the disaster on the mobile phone reflect the country's parallel reality, a sharp physical and psychological tear.
而在之后的两周里，这种撕裂感蔓延在每一天的日常中。
And for the next two weeks, the tear spread through everyday life.
杨圆圆的两个屏幕这段时间里，你在社交网络上查看信息或者发布信息吗？当然，会同时看国内新闻与国外新闻，虽然在最初几天觉得快精分了，被信息撕裂，也被情绪撕裂。
During that time, do you view information on social networking sites or post messages? Of course, you watch both domestic and foreign news, although in the first few days you feel like you're about to get a good score, torn apart by information, and torn apart by your emotions.
后来几天平缓了一些。
The next few days were calmer.
面对铺天盖地的信息，首先要对信息作出判断与过滤，保持清醒客观的头脑。
Facing the overwhelming information, we should first make judgment and filter the information, and keep a clear and objective mind.
除了查看，也有发布、捐款、与分享多类信息。
In addition to viewing, there are releases, donations, and sharing of multiple types of information.
在官方的信息管控下，个体间的信息分享尤为重要。
Information sharing among individuals is particularly important under official information control.
前几天看到一段文字提到 “历史信息的区块链” 的概念，觉得想再分享一下 —— “既然所有人所有人都在经历历史，那么所有人都可以记录历史……拍摄，分享，传递。
A few days ago I read a paragraph that referred to the concept of a "chain of historical information" and felt like sharing it again - "since everyone is going through history, then everyone can record it... shoot, share, and pass it on."
历史是很容易被篡改的，但如果全民都在记录，全民都在传递，这就是历史信息的区块链，再没那么容易被篡改。
History is easily falsified, but if it is recorded by the entire population and transmitted by the entire population, it is a chain of historical information that is no longer easily tampered with.
”另一方面，四O四 来得越来越快，及时随手存档也尤为重要。
On the other hand, the fourth day is getting faster and faster.
未来记忆的档案库，是每一个个体共同积累的。
The archives of future memory are accumulated together by each individual.
有没有做些什么让自己不要失衡？承受不了的时候就逃到电影的世界里，这几天看了不少灾难题材的片子。
Have you done anything to keep yourself from getting out of balance? You can't afford to escape to the world of movies, these days have seen a lot of disaster movies.
推荐《传染病》（Contagion），片中故事仿佛此刻现实的镜像，我喜欢影片多条个体叙事的结构，没有主角（或者，主角实际是看不见的病毒）。
I recommend Contagion, in which the story seems to mirror reality at the moment. I like the structure of many individual narratives, with no protagonist (or, in fact, an invisible virus).
最近每天都做饭，做饭也能让我平静（从没料到我也有说出这种话的一天！）。
I've been cooking every day lately, and cooking has calmed me down (I never expected that day!).
与此同时，几天前就开始恢复工作了，在同时弄两个片子，在如此糟糕的 2020 年，看 2019 年的素材可以续我的命。
Meanwhile, I got back to work a few days ago, working on two films at a time, and in such a bad year 2020, looking at 2019 material could continue to kill me.
从疫情爆发至今，整个事件中，给你最大感触的是什么？苦难如同魔镜，照出乱世的本相。
From the outbreak of the outbreak to the present, the whole event, what you feel the most? Suffering is like a magic mirror, reflecting the reality of chaos.
疫情如同抽水机，池中温水被迅速抽干了，许多人才惊觉池中现实的阴暗。
The epidemic is like a pump, the pool of warm water is quickly drained, and many people are appalled by the dark reality of the pool.
但另一方面，也深切觉得在黑暗中看到了凝聚的光芒，越来越多的人在彼此联结了。
But on the other hand, also deeply felt in the dark to see the condensation of the light, more and more people in each other connected.
小的阵营在逐渐扩大。
The small camp is growing.
希望经历这一次的灾难，能唤起一批人的觉醒。
Hope to experience this disaster, can arouse a group of people to awaken.
希望我们都不会忘记。
I hope none of us will forget.
作为一名艺术从业者，你怀疑过自己的价值吗？我会怀疑许多事，包括 “价值”（value）一词。
As an art practitioner, have you ever doubted your worth? I doubt many things, including the word "value."
坦白说我没想过这个问题，只是一直在进行创作的动作。
Frankly, I didn't think about it. I was just doing creative work.
我相信艺术最大的意义是去建立联结 —— 跨越地域，跨越时间。
I believe that the greatest meaning of art is to make connections - across regions and over time.
而围绕这一点的思考，也一直渗透在我的每件作品当中。
And around this point of thinking, has also been permeated in every work of mine.
想到今天看到一句海明威说过的话，“每个人都是一个碎片，那广袤大陆上的一部分。
Think of what Hemingway said today: "Every man is a fragment, a part of a vast continent."
” 在过去几年来，世界各地局部的分裂越发加速。
Local divisions around the world have accelerated over the past few years.
但无论政治如何割裂，人类在天灾面前都一样渺小与无助。
But no matter how divided politics may be, human beings are just as small and helpless in the face of natural disasters.
面对现实，艺术没有什么实际作用。
Face the reality, art has no practical effect.
但好的艺术应该像是棱镜，让人重新审视现实，感到希望，或激发自省。
But good art should be like a prism, allowing people to re-examine reality, to feel hope, or to inspire introspection.
最后可以推荐一些精神食粮吗？推荐重温李安的《饮食男女》，可治愈，可有效促进居家修炼厨艺。
Can you recommend some spiritual food finally? It is recommended to review Ang Lee's Diet Man and Woman, which can be cured and effectively promote home cooking skills.
与此同时推荐《传染病》，可谓以毒攻毒。
At the same time, "infectious diseases" is recommended.
图片来自网络// 编辑：陆冉。
Photo from Web / Editing: Lu Ran.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
作为个体，我们至少可以思考。
As individuals, we can at least think.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "作为个体，我们至少可以思考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; As an individual, we can at least think about & quot;;
var msg_desc = "几近停摆的城市不需要又一个停摆的个体。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a near-standstill city doesn't need another stop.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
