住在方舱的摄影师：这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了。
Photographer living in the cabin: This photo was on the front page of the People's Daily today.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
一场疫情，让小余一家分离三地。
An outbreak of disease, let the small Yu family separate three places.
但他依旧认为，自己是不幸的人中，幸运的那个。
But he still thinks that he is the lucky one among the unfortunate.
作为婚纱摄影师的他，如今在方舱里给大家拍照片。
As a wedding photographer, he now takes pictures of everyone in the cabin.
他很高兴，“在这样很苦的事里，大家都能表现出一种乐观”。
He was pleased, "in such a difficult case, everyone can show a kind of optimism."
文| 吴美芬小余今年30岁，是一位婚纱摄影师。
Wu Mei-fen, 30, is a wedding photographer.
他们一家三口，都是新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
Their family of three, are the new coronavirus pneumonia patients.
他和母亲是轻症，住在方舱医院。
He and his mother are mild and live in a cabin hospital.
父亲59岁，是重症，现在住在武汉大学人民医院东院。
His father is 59 years old, is seriously ill, now lives in Wuhan University People's Hospital East courtyard.
2月20日，我与小余取得联系。
On February 20, I contacted Xiao Yu.
他给我讲述了他们一家死里逃生的经历，并描述了待在方舱医院9天的生活。
He told me the story of their family's escape from death and described their stay in the cabin hospital for nine days.
他说：“我们一家人是不幸的，但也是幸运的”。
He said: "Our family is unfortunate, but also lucky."
幸运是因为一家三口都获得了住院治疗的机会，而很多人在没确诊或者获得医疗救助之前就失去了生命。
Fortunately, all three members of the family were admitted to hospital, and many lost their lives before being diagnosed or receiving medical assistance.
文章刊发前，小余跟我讲，他的母亲已经痊愈回到家中。
Before the article was published, Xiao Yu told me that his mother had recovered to her home.
真好。
That's good.
希望可以听到更多这样的好消息。
Hope to hear more of this good news.
祝福所有受难的人们。
Best wishes to all who are suffering.
以下是小余的自述：爸爸病危，艰难求医1月25日左右，我爸发烧了，体温在37度左右。
My father had a fever, and his temperature was around 37 degrees. My father died of a fever on January 25.
大概两天后，我也有一点发烧的症状。
About two days later, I had a fever, too.
那时武汉已经封城了，我有点怕。
Wuhan had already closed the city, I was a little afraid.
刚好我姨父是医生，他建议我先带头到社区医院里面查一查。
My uncle happened to be a doctor, so he suggested that I check into the community hospital first.
我就去查了血常规，并做了X光。
I went to have my blood routine checked and X-rayed.
社区医院的X光设备比一般大医院要落后一些。
X-ray facilities in community hospitals are somewhat behind those in larger hospitals.
查完之后，除了血象有点异常外，X光显示正常。
After the check, the X-ray showed normal except for a slight abnormality in the blood image.
当天下午，我爸也去了，他只做了血常规，没做X光，因为他听说做X光的地方有一个确诊病人，怕被传染，就被吓回来了。
That afternoon, my father also went, he did a blood routine, did not X-ray, because he heard that the X-ray place where a confirmed patient, afraid of infection, was scared back.
当时通过血象来判断这个病，医生觉得我爸没什么问题，就让我们回家了。
Judging by the blood image, the doctor felt that my father had no problem and let us go home.
本来我爸比我还紧张，他看到血检结果后放松很多。
My dad was even more nervous than I was. He relaxed a lot when he saw the blood test results.
也正是因为在社区检测的结果，使得我们在家耽误了两天。
It was because of the results of the community test that we were delayed at home for two days.
两天过后，我们感觉情况有一点糟糕，医生开的头孢之类的消炎药没什么用，退烧药吃下去有降温，但第二天晚上又会反复发烧。
Two days later, we were feeling a little bit worse. Doctors prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs such as cefalms that didn't work, had a cold when taken off, and had a fever again the next night.
我们就去家附近的武汉市第三医院做了CT和血常规检查，结果显示我爸肺部感染很严重，我和我妈受到轻微感染。
We went to Wuhan Third Hospital near our home for a CT and a routine blood test. The results showed that my father had a serious lung infection and my mother and I had a slight infection.
2月1日，我带着我爸去武汉市人民医院做核酸检测。
On February 1, I took my father to Wuhan People's Hospital for a nucleic acid test.
排号的人非常多，我们只等了一半的时间就回家了。
There were so many people in the platoon that we had to wait half way home.
因为我爸非常不舒服，他的病情已经恶化到走路就喘气的程度，我们觉得继续排队会抗不住。
Because my dad was very sick, his condition had deteriorated to the point where he was gasping for breath while walking, and we felt the line would be overwhelming.
第二天早上，我们凌晨4点起床，5点赶到武汉市同济医院，想去打针。
The next morning, we got up at 4: 00 a.m. and arrived at Tongji Hospital in Wuhan at 5: 00 a.m. to get an injection.
在室外公共场地的椅子上有很多人趴在上面，还有人睡在地上。
There were a lot of people lying on top of the chairs in the open air, and there were others sleeping on the floor.
医生戴的那种透明的眼罩上都是水。
The transparent eye patch worn by the doctor was covered with water.
排队看病时，时不时会听到外面有人说“不行了”，接着就倒下了。
Queuing to see a doctor, occasionally heard someone outside say "no", and then fell down.
然后门诊里的医生就会有3、4个人跑出去救他，这也导致排队看病的进度很慢。
Then three or four of the doctors in the clinic would run out to save him, which also led to a slow line-up.
我们5点到医院，其他检查做完了，可核酸检测要等到早上八点才开始做，我们没等到，因为我爸又觉得身体受不了了，想回家休息。
We arrived at the hospital at 5: 00, the other tests were done, but the nucleic acid test didn't begin until eight in the morning.
在同济医院的CT和血检结果显示我爸的肺进一步恶化，情况很严重，基本上就是大家说的那种“白肺”。
The CT and blood tests at Tongji Hospital showed that my father's lung had deteriorated further. It was very serious, basically what we call "white lung."
那些天，按道理应该在家休息的，但我们总跟正确的方向反向着进行，在人民医院和同济医院之间奔波。
In those days, we were supposed to rest at home, but we always went in the right direction, running between the People's Hospital and Tongji Hospital.
我爸把CT片子给几个做医生的朋友看，其中一个劝他不要再到处跑，建议先回家躺着，因为这个病不能过度消耗人的精力。
My father showed the CT to some of his doctor friends, and one of them advised him not to run around any more. He suggested going home and lying down first, because the disease did not consume too much energy.
但我爸听不进去，他总觉得在家里躺着就没救了。
But my dad couldn't listen. He always felt like he was hopeless lying at home.
社区医院的医生也说我爸的情况比较严重，最好是住院。
The doctors at the community hospital also said my dad's condition was more serious, preferably hospitalized.
可那时整个武汉的情况不像现在这么好，床位非常难得。
But then the whole situation in Wuhan is not so good, the bed is very rare.
想要住院治疗，必须要确诊。
To be hospitalized, a diagnosis must be made.
我们去人民医院，医生便说排队要排10个小时以上。
When we went to the People's Hospital, the doctor told us to wait in line for more than 10 hours.
这样子形成了死循环，排队那么劳累，像我爸这样的重症病人肯定受不了。
It's a kind of dead-end loop, so tired of queuing up that a sick man like my dad can't stand it.
那时不像现在，看了CT片子就能确诊。
It wasn't like today, when you could see a CT scan.
我们排不上床位，只好在门诊打了两天针。
We couldn't get a bed and had to take two injections at the clinic.
从酒店隔离点到方舱2月3日，我联系在社区上班的同学，问他怎样才能住院治疗。
From the hotel isolation point to the cabin on February 3, I contacted my classmate at work in the community and asked him how he could be hospitalized.
他说：“你知道现在我们社区里面有多少人感染了吗？到现在为止，核酸确诊在等住院的人里，没有一个是能住上的。
"Do you know how many people in our community are infected right now? So far, none of the people whose nucleic acids have been diagnosed have been able to live.
”床位已经紧张到这个程度了。
The bed was already strained to the limit.
他还说，已经不知道有几个老人在家里去世了，像我爸这样连核酸确诊都没有的，更谈不上有资格去排队住院。
He added that it was no longer known how many elderly people had died at home, without a nucleic acid diagnosis like my father, let alone eligible to stand in line.
当时国家已经有政策要求尽量收治病人。
The state already had a policy to treat as many patients as possible.
我麻烦他帮个忙，先把我爸的名字报上去。
I'll trouble him to do him a favor and give me my father's name first.
2月4日，来了个电话通知我爸到家附近的酒店进行隔离。
On February 4, a phone call came to tell my father to stay in quarantine at a hotel near his home.
我送他到隔离宾馆时，看到门口有10多个年纪蛮大的患者，身体状况看起来都不太好。
When I took him to the seclusion of the hotel, I saw more than a dozen very old patients at the door, all of whom looked unwell.
我爸在隔离宾馆住的那两天，只要不行动，身体还过得去，但只要稍微动一下，哪怕是上厕所和吃东西，都感觉不行。
During the two days my father spent in a secluded hotel, as long as he didn't move, he was OK, but even a little movement, even going to the bathroom and eating, didn't make him feel good.
隔离点的医生一日三餐会提供正餐，医护人员每天也发中药辅助退烧。
Doctors in the quarantine point will serve meals three times a day, and medical staff will dispense traditional Chinese medicine daily to help reduce fever.
我每天都会问社区的人，排队住院的进度如何，不断地跟他沟通交流。
Every day I ask the people in my community about the progress of the queue and keep in touch with him.
那时火神山在建设，雷神山和其他地方的方舱也开始建设。
Mount Fire was being built, and cabins were being built in Mount Raytheon and elsewhere.
2月6日晚上，武汉下着雨，风很大。
On the night of Feb. 6, it rained in Wuhan and the wind was strong.
社区的人给我打电话，说我爸现在有资格进入洪山体育馆方舱，让我们到社区医院那边等。
People from the community called me and told me that my dad was now eligible to enter the Hongshan Stadium cabin and let us wait at the community hospital.
当时有很多人过来，有些人跟我爸一样，身体状况特别差。
There were a lot of people coming over, and some of them, like my dad, were in very bad health.
送他们去方舱的是公交车，里面坐满了人。
It was the bus that took them to the square cabin, which was full of people.
我爸坐在公交车靠近后门的位置，我站在车窗外送他。
My father sat on the bus near the back door, and I stood outside the car window to see him off.
因为他不能说话，一说话就喘气。
Because he could not speak, he gasped for breath.
他拿微信给我发短信，说觉得这一次挺不过去了，让我照顾好我妈。
He sent me a message saying he didn't feel like it was going through this time. Let me take care of my mother.
当时我看到这条短信，崩溃到快受不了了。
When I saw this message, it broke down to the point where I could hardly stand it.
那样的情况下，我又不能哭，只能用微信给他回过去：“会好起来的。
In that case, I can not cry, can only give him back with a micro-letter: "It will be all right.
车上都是和你一样确诊的人。
It's full of people just like you.
那边有专门的医生和救治条件。
There's a doctor and a doctor there.
”他看完信息，抬头看我，面部表情看起来很难受。
"He looked up at me after reading the message, and his face looked very sad.
其实他是车上病情最严重的，我都能看得出来。
In fact, he is the most serious illness in the car, I can see it.
等到所有患者到齐后，凌晨一点多钟，公交就走了，往洪山体育馆方向开。
When all the patients arrived, one o'clock in the morning, the public transport left, to the direction of Hongshan Stadium.
我回到自己的车里就开始瞎哭，我从来没有这样子哭过，哭完后才回家。
I went back to my car and began to cry. I had never cried like that before I went home.
回到家，我躲进房间里，听到我妈在外面客厅嗦鼻涕，隐隐约约地听到爸爸在微信里告诉她银行卡密码、股票账号之类的。
When I got home, I hid in my room and heard my mother sniffling in the living room, vaguely listening to Dad telling her in his micro-letter about the bank card password, the stock account number and so on.
我一个人躺在房间的床上也哭，确实不知道怎么办了，很绝望。
I lay alone on the bed in the room crying, really do not know what to do, very desperate.
凌晨两点，我爸到了洪山体育馆方舱的门口，微信跟我说车停在门口等检查，一直不进去，他现在好难受。
At 2 a. m., my father came to the door of the Hongshan Stadium. He told me that the car was waiting for inspection at the gate.
我起床穿衣服又开车赶到洪山体育馆，在里面到处找，最后才找到他们停车的位置。
I got up and dressed and drove to the Hong Shan Gymnasium. I looked around until I found where they were parked.
在那里我看到有4、5辆公交车往里面送人。
There I saw 4 or 5 buses give people in.
天刮着大风，下着雨，我把车停在公交车的斜对面。
It was windy and raining. I parked across the street from the bus.
有警务人员看到我的车，就过来跟我说这边不让停车。
When a police officer saw my car, he came up to me and told me not to stop.
我马上开车门下去求他，用手指着我爸坐的那辆公交车的方向，说那是我爸爸，他是重症，现在很难受，快受不了。
I immediately opened the door and begged him, pointing in the direction of the bus in which my father was sitting, saying that it was my father.
那个警察就跑进体育馆，安排人加快了速度，让我爸坐的那辆公交车先进去。
The policeman ran into the gym and arranged for my father's bus to go in first.
等车进去后，我才又开车回家睡觉。
I waited for the bus to get in before I drove home again.
本以为这样就没什么事了，没想到进去后，我爸还是说不舒服。
I thought there was nothing wrong with that, but after I went in, my father still said that he was not feeling well.
因为他看到方舱里的条件很糟糕，没有什么设施，感到灰心绝望。
He was disheartened to see that the conditions in the cabin were so bad that he had no facilities.
我爸是第一批进方舱的患者，我跟他讲，社区的人说过，送到方舱是一个机会，现在有很多人连进方舱的机会都没有。
My father was one of the first to enter the cabin, and I told him that the community had said that it was an opportunity to get to the cabin, and that there were many who did not have a chance to get into it.
在方舱里，如果你是重症的话，医生会帮你转院的。
In the cabin, if you're in serious condition, the doctor will transfer you to the hospital.
误打误撞有了床位很幸运，那天刚好就有这样一个机会。
I was lucky to have a bed by mistake, and I had just such a chance.
方舱里的医生给他做检查评估之后，当天凌晨三点多，叫了一个120，把他送到光谷的武汉大学人民医院东院。
After the doctor in the cabin gave him a check-up and assessment, he called a 120 in the morning and took him to the east courtyard of Wuhan University People's Hospital in Guanggu.
我以为他们沟通好了有床位才会把人送过去，因为洪山体育馆方舱离那边很远，大概30公里。
I thought they'd be able to deliver the man once they had a bed, because the Hongshan Stadium was about 30 kilometers away from there.
可到那之后，我爸跟我说，他一直坐在医院走道的板凳上，就在重症病房旁边，没有床位。
But after that, my dad told me he'd been sitting on the bench in the hospital aisle, next to the intensive care unit, with no beds.
那样坐着，旁边放着行李箱，医生也没给他采取任何治疗措施。
Sitting like that, there was a suitcase beside him, and the doctor did not give him any treatment.
我马上又从床上下来，开车到那个地方去。
I got out of bed again and drove to that place.
一边开车，一边跟我爸说坚持一下。
While driving, tell my dad to stick it out.
到医院是5点左右，夜已深，感觉蛮恐怖的。
It was about five o'clock at the hospital. The night was deep and I felt terrible.
我一开始还上错了楼，那栋楼就像电影《寂静岭》一样恐怖，整栋楼灯是开着的，里面却没有一个人。
I went up the wrong stairs at first, the building was as horrible as Silent Hill, the whole building was on, but there was no one inside.
我看到隔壁还有一栋楼就赶紧过去，这才找对了。
When I saw another building next door, I hurried over and found the right one.
这栋楼给人的感觉也是一样，医院里人手根本不够，每一层楼都有病房，却很安静，感觉很压抑。
The building feels the same, the hospital is simply not enough staff, each floor has a ward, but very quiet, feeling very depressed.
找到我爸之后，就去找医生。
After I found my dad, I went to see a doctor.
医生不是武汉的，也不是湖北省的，是从省外支援过来的。
The doctor is not from Wuhan or Hubei province, but from outside the province.
他很无奈地说，确实是没有重症病房，只能等别人出来了，我们才能住进去。
He is very helpless to say, there is really no intensive care unit, only when others come out, we can live in.
我想，那要等到什么时候？医生说他也没办法，就把我们往发热门诊那边推。
When, I suppose? The doctor said he could do nothing but push us to the fever clinic.
可发热门诊在医院大门口的左手边，位置有点远，凌晨5点，又是刮风又是下雨，我爸怎么过得去，这不是折腾嘛。
The fever clinic is on the left side of the hospital gate. It's a little far away. It's windy and rainy at 5 a. m.
我爸情绪不好，发脾气了，在那边瞎吼瞎叫，说什么死也要死在这里的话。
My dad was in a bad mood, lost his temper, and yelled at me about dying here.
我让他不要生气，因为不能做过多耗氧的动作。
I told him not to get angry because he couldn't do anything aerobic.
我们只好走到发热门诊那边，医生说，你来这边也没用，没有什么设施能给你上，也没有床给你躺，最多给你一个吸氧的机子。
We'll go to the fever clinic, 'said the doctor.' It's no use for you to come here, there's no place for you, no bed to lie down on, and no more than an oxygen machine.
我确实是不知道怎么办了，就又往挂号大厅那个方向走，机缘巧合，随口问了一下，说现在住院该怎么办。
I really don't know what to do, so I went back to the registration hall and by accident asked casually what to do with the hospital now.
挂号大厅的医生让我们去3号楼9楼看一看，说那边今天住进了十几个人。
The doctor in the registration hall asked us to take a look at the 9th floor of Building 3, where a dozen people were staying today.
我马上过去，整层楼只有两三个医生，每个医生都很忙，在不断地查看重症病房的病人。
I'll be right over there. There are only two or three doctors on the floor, and each doctor is busy, constantly checking out the patients in the intensive care unit.
我四处逛了一下，发现有好多空着的床位。
I looked around and saw a lot of empty beds.
有些可能是社区送过来的病人，看起来比较健康，可以自己提着行李箱过来办住院。
Some may be patients from the community who look healthier and can come to the hospital with their suitcases on their own.
我拦住一位医生，他的眼镜上面全是雾水。
I stopped a doctor whose glasses were all foggy.
他说：“我现在很忙，也看不到你，有什么要求你就说”。
"I'm very busy right now and I can't see you," he said.
我直接问，在哪里可以住下？他就给我安排了一个病床。
I asked directly where I could stay and he arranged for a bed for me.
没有工作人员问我们是哪个社区送来的，是不是街道办的，有没在名单上，就这样住下来，误打误撞地撞到了一个机会。
No one asked which community we were from, whether it was on the street, whether it was on the list, and so lived, accidentally bumping into an opportunity.
住院后第二天，医生安排他去做了CT。
The day after he was hospitalized, the doctor arranged for a CT scan.
到了第三天，我爸的心态就好了很多，因为不用再折腾了。
By the third day, my dad's mind was much better, because there was no need to toss.
那天早上，我跑到社区问哪里可以寄养宠物，因为我家还有两只狗。
That morning, I went into the community and asked where I could foster a pet because my family still had two dogs.
快要走到社区门口，就接到医生的电话，他跟我讲他们是从四川华西还是山东齐鲁过来的，具体我不记得了，只知道是个很有名的医院。
He told me whether they had come from Huaxi in Sichuan or Qilu in Shandong Province. I don't remember. I just knew it was a very famous hospital.
他们说看了我爸的CT结果，情况非常糟糕。
They said they saw my dad's CT and it was terrible.
他很直接地跟我说要做好心理准备，说这样的病人来了很多，去世的也很多。
He told me very directly to be prepared to say that such patients came a lot, and died a lot.
我一听，整个人都要垮了，当场哭了。
As soon as I heard it, the whole body broke down and cried on the spot.
我在电话里求他，求他救救我老爸。
I begged him on the phone to help my dad.
他说，这里已经是全国最顶尖的医护人员了，能用上的药全部上了，我要做的事情就是每天跟老爸聊聊天，让他的心情不那么压抑和紧张。
'This is the best health care provider in the country, 'he said.' All I have to do is talk to my dad every day to make him feel less depressed and nervous.
后来，我看新闻才知道，来自四川和山东两家全国最顶尖医院的医生入驻了我爸所在的人民医院。
Later, I read the news, from Sichuan and Shandong two of the country's top hospitals doctors into my father's people's hospital.
医生还说现在医疗物资非常紧缺，他们每天的防护服都不够，有时候重复使用，没办法总是进老爸的病房，因为医生也要注意安全。
Doctors say they don't have enough protective clothing every day, and sometimes reuse it. They can't always go into their father's room because doctors need to be careful.
他说给我老爸留了电话号码，有什么事情，可以给医生打电话。
He said he had left a phone number for my dad and he could call the doctor if he needed anything.
听到医生的这句话，让我觉得很苦，你知道吗？就很苦。
Hear this word of doctor, let me feel very bitter, you know? Very bitter.
你发现自己很惨的时候，帮助你的人也好不到哪里去，你没有办法去找谁发泄或者是怎么样。
When you find yourself in trouble, the people who help you are not much better, you have no way to find someone to vent or how.
我也不敢跟我妈说这些情况。
I didn't dare tell my mom that.
挂了电话之后，我就在街上瞎哭，还跟我好朋友打了电话，他也不知道说什么，只是说没有人能够帮你，只能按照医生说的每天跟老爸多沟通一下。
After I hung up the phone, I cried in the street and phoned my best friend. He didn't know what to say, only that no one could help you.
那天下午，老爸让我帮他买肥皂和毛巾过去。
That afternoon, Dad asked me to buy him some soap and a towel.
我开车过去才发现，那栋楼是隔离起来的。
I drove by and found out that the building was isolated.
老爸住进去那晚，可能是刚开始收治病人，太混乱了，我们才有机会混了进去。
The night Dad went in, he was probably just beginning to treat patients. It was so messy that we had a chance to get in.
现在有保安在下面守着，家属不能随便上去。
Now there are security guards below, family members can not go up casually.
保安让我爸把东西送到大厅，报床号就可以了，会有专人送过去。
The security guard asked my father to send things to the hall, the number of the newspaper bed can be, there will be someone to deliver it.
一家三口隔离三地2月11日，我家这边的社区医院突然开了一个小门面，专门做核酸检测。
Three Families in Isolation February 11, my side of the community hospital suddenly opened a small door, specializing in nucleic acid testing.
我跟我妈都去做了，结果都是阴性。
I did it with my mom, and it was negative.
社区医院就给我们打电话建议再去复查一次。
The community hospital called us and suggested a second visit.
复查后，我们都变成了阳性。
After the review, we all became positive.
我们就相继被社区安排到楼下的宾馆隔离了。
We were successively quarantined by the community to the hotel downstairs.
隔离之前，我去超市买了大概一个多月的狗粮和很多一次性碗，把狗粮倒在碗里全部放在了地上。
Before the quarantine, I went to the supermarket to buy about a month's worth of dog food and a lot of disposable bowls, emptying the dog food onto the floor.
让两只狗在客厅，把所有房间和阳台的门都关上，因为我怕他们到阳台上去吵别人。
Let two dogs in the parlour, close all the doors of the rooms and balconies, for I am afraid they will go out on the balcony and make noise.
现在，我每天通过监控观察它们。
Now, I watch them through surveillance every day.
在隔离宾馆待了半天，我妈被送到了洪山体育馆方舱，跟我老爸去过的是同一个。
After spending a long time in a secluded hotel, my mother was sent to the Hongshan Stadium cabin, the same thing my father had been to.
2月12日，我被安排到了现在所在的汉阳沌口体育馆方舱。
On Feb. 12, I was assigned to the cockpit of the chaotic entrance gymnasium where I am now.
现在已经是第8天了。
Now is the eighth day.
我们家三个人在武汉三个不同的地方接受治疗，每天通过微信相互问候。
Three members of my family were treated in three different places in Wuhan and greeted each other by micromail every day.
我爸每天会打4瓶免疫球蛋白，打了激素，医生也有给他喝一些营养液，还上了整个医院最好的呼吸机。
My dad plays four vials of immunoglobulin a day, he takes hormones, doctors give him some fluids, and he goes to the best ventilator in the hospital.
医生让所有患者都面朝下趴着睡觉，说这样有助于身体恢复。
The doctor told all the patients to sleep face down, saying it would help their bodies recover.
2月18日，我爸做了一次CT。
On Feb. 18, my dad had a CT scan.
医生把我们拉了一个微信群，把我爸刚住院的CT和现在的做了对比，还拍了视频发到群里，明显好了很多。
The doctor pulled us into a microcosm, compared my dad's CT in hospital with mine now, and took a video and sent it to the group, apparently much better.
但医生说现在也是个非常危险的时期，因为医院里有一部分患者在这个时期病情会突然急转直下，有年轻的，也有年纪大的。
But doctors say it's also a very dangerous time, because some patients in the hospital suddenly go into a steep decline, both young and old.
每次医生对我说的话，我都不知道到底是好还是不好。
Every time the doctor says something to me, I don't know whether it's good or bad.
他就是直接地把严重糟糕的事情告诉你，让你做好心理准备，也会直接地把好的事情告诉你。
He simply tells you the worst, prepares you mentally, and tells you the good stuff directly.
不过，我爸自己说，住院后感觉在往好的方向转。
However, my dad himself said that he was feeling better after going to the hospital.
我跟我妈的病情一直都算好的，2月4日左右我们就没有发烧的症状了，只是有点胸闷。
My mother and I have always been in good shape, February 4 or so we have no symptoms of fever, just a little chest tightness.
我也松了一口气。
I'm relieved, too.
我爸所在的病房一共有三个床位，其中住着一个35岁左右的小伙子，他在1月20日就被认定为重症住了进来，到现在有一个月了。
My father's three-bed ward, which housed a 35-year-old man who was admitted on January 20th as critically ill, is now a month old.
他跟我爸说，病重时连给家里人的遗书都写好了。
He told my father that when he was seriously ill, he had written his last letters to his family.
现在他恢复得很好，等核酸检测为阴性就可以出院。
Now he's recovering so well that he can leave the hospital with a negative nucleic acid test.
我爸现在还蛮乐观的，因为在这边有医生帮助免费治疗，用的都是很好的药物。
My dad is optimistic right now, because there are doctors here to help free treatment, using good drugs.
我算了一下，单是每天4瓶免疫球蛋白，就得2400块，还不算上其他的费用。
Let me figure out, just 4 bottles of immunoglobulin a day will cost 2,400, not to mention the rest.
每天饭菜还有人管，觉得蛮舒服的。
Everyday the food is under control and feels comfortable.
医生说他核酸检测通过了，就可以出院回家自己恢复。
The doctor said he had passed the nucleic acid test and could be discharged from the hospital to recover.
到时候医院会给每个人都发一套新的衣服，带来的衣服全部处理掉。
Then the hospital will give everyone a new suit and take care of all the clothes.
我妈今天两次核酸检测都是阴性，明天的出院名单上面有她。
My mother was negative on both nucleic acid tests today, and she's on tomorrow's discharge list.
我问过医生出院的程序：两次核酸检测都呈阴性，再经过医生会诊对CT结果进行分析评估，医生都赞成出院才可以出院。
I asked my doctor about the procedure for getting out of the hospital. Both tests were negative, the CT results were analyzed and evaluated at a doctor's consultation, and the doctors agreed to discharge from the hospital.
现在能不能出院要看CT结果，到了这个阶段反而CT起到了非常重要作用。
Now can be discharged from the hospital to see CT results, to this stage instead CT plays a very important role.
“在这样很苦的事里，大家都能表现出一种乐观”在方舱，衣食住行我都觉得非常好。
"In such a difficult thing, we can all show a kind of optimism" in the cabin, food, clothing and travel I feel very good.
就算不是特殊时期，方舱的条件也比我去郊外露营的还好，有专门的公共卫生间，热水充足。
Even if it wasn't a special time, the cabin was better than I went camping in the suburbs, with special public toilets and plenty of hot water.
虽然没有暖气，但给你盖的被子很多，还每人发一件军大衣，已经很暖和了。
Although there is no heating, but to cover you with a lot of quilts, but also each handed out a military coat, has been very warm.
每天三餐的伙食也特别好。
Three meals a day are especially good.
我为什么这么说，是因为在外面食物缺乏，购物困难，肉很贵，想买还要去超市排队。
Why do I say that because food is scarce, shopping is difficult, meat is expensive, want to buy and go to the supermarket line.
而且现在想买也买不到了。
And I can't buy it now.
从昨天开始，武汉实行由社区和街道代购的政策，超市已经不对个人开放了。
Since yesterday, Wuhan has implemented the policy of buying by the community and streets, supermarkets have been closed to individuals.
现在人们家里吃的东西远不及我们在方舱的好。
People don't eat as much in the house as we do in the cabin nowadays.
我们这里还有苹果、橘子之类的水果和牛奶。
We also have fruit and milk like apples and oranges.
医生每天定时定点帮我们测量血压和体温。
Doctors help us measure blood pressure and body temperature regularly every day.
医生和护士都是倒班制上班，24小时有人值班。
Doctors and nurses work on shifts and are on duty 24 hours a day.
他们都穿得差不多，我不知道他们到底长什么样，也没有刻意去记他们的名字。
They were all dressed alike. I didn't know what they looked like, and I didn't even bother to remember their names.
负责我们这个方舱的医护人员好像是从安徽和贵州来的，他们大部分人之间肯定也不认识，有时候会找我来帮他们拍照留念。
The staff in charge of our cabin seems to be from Anhui and Guizhou, and most of them certainly don't know each other.
2月15日，我隔壁床的小哥过生日，我还帮他跟医护人员拍了照片。
On Feb. 15, my brother in bed next door had his birthday, and I took pictures of him with the paramedics.
这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了。
The photo was placed on the front page of the People's Daily today.
我每天刷微博或者抖音都会发现一些在我们这个医院拍的东西。
Every day I brush my tweets or shake my voice to find something I take in our hospital.
在我们这个场馆的另一边，每天都有人员在编一些段子，拍抖音。
On the other side of our venue, there are people working on some chatter every day.
也会有人一起做体操、唱歌、跳广场舞，他们还会教其他人跳，患者之间成为了朋友。
There will also be people doing gymnastics, singing and square dancing together, they will teach others to dance, and the patients will become friends with each other.
有时我躺在床上，会听到隔壁床一个35岁左右的小伙子跟他的小孩打视频电话。
Sometimes when I'm lying in bed, I hear a 35-year-old guy in the next bed making video calls to his kids.
他会问小孩，知不知道爸爸妈妈为什么现在不在家。
He would ask the child if he knew why his parents were not at home.
那小孩说不知道。
The child said he didn't know.
他就会告诉小孩，说是因为爸爸妈妈得了病，现在在外面治疗之类的。
He would have told the child that it was because his parents were ill and that he was now outside for treatment or something.
你听他说话的语气，还是很乐观很开心的。
You listen to his tone of voice, or very optimistic and happy.
从他的电话里，你可以知道他家里其他人也被感染了。
You can tell from his phone that the rest of his family is infected.
可能进来方舱的所有人家里都有其他人被感染了。
All the people who might have entered the cabin had other people infected.
因为我每天都发现他们在不断地给家里人打电话，询问每天的体温多少，爸爸住进去没有，妈妈住进去没有。
Because every day I find them calling my family, asking how much body temperature they have every day, if Dad lives in, and if my mother lives in.
在这件很苦的事情里，大家都能够表现出一种乐观，很不容易。
In this very difficult matter, we can all show an optimistic, very not easy.
我们这个方舱墙上贴着一封不知道是谁写的感谢信，是感谢医护人员的。
We had a thank-you note posted on the wall of our cabin, thanking the paramedics.
病人在跟家里人打电话聊天时，也会感慨医护人员的不容易。
When patients talk on the phone with their families, they will also lament the difficulty of medical staff.
他们穿着防护服，在这里上班一天，5、6个小时不吃不喝的，回到酒店也要隔离起来，哪也去不了。
They wear protective clothing, work here for a day, eat or drink for five or six hours, go back to the hotel and go nowhere.
在这个事情里，大家都是受害者，患者是，医生也是。
In this case, everyone is the victim, the patient is the doctor.
在这里，有的人会不断地去折腾医生，认为自己应该得到比别人更好的待遇，对医生和护士说话很不客气，这也是无法避免的事。
It is also inevitable that some people will continue to mess with their doctors, that they deserve better treatment than others, and that they will not be polite to doctors and nurses.
但总体而言，大部分人还是蛮能够相互理解的。
But on the whole, most people understand each other quite well.
今天中午饭送来时，一辆车把四五百号人的饭菜用盒子装着送过来，有些患者会主动地去帮忙搬。
Today, at lunchtime, a car was carrying four or five hundred people's food in a box, and some patients offered to help.
我们刚进来方舱时，护士会统计哪些患者是党员，哪些不是，可能是需要党员优先出来帮忙。
When we enter the cabin, nurses will count which patients are party members and which are not, and may need party members' priority to help.
我也是党员，每天会帮他们拍些照片，也会发给给我爸看。
I'm also a Party member. I take pictures of them every day and send them to my father.
我爸说，多帮一下别人，这个是力所能及的。
My father said, help others more, this is within our ability.
有些护士知道我会拍照，他们单位需要一些宣传的照片，也会来找我帮忙拍。
Some nurses knew I would take pictures, and their unit needed some publicity photos, and they would come to me for help.
为医护人员拍照的小余我每天在方舱的日子还是挺快活的，我妈明天出院了，我说赶快回去把狗屎铲一下。
My days in the cabin were very enjoyable. My mother left the hospital tomorrow. I said go back to shovel the dog poop.
我妈开玩笑说，不是特别愿意回去，因为这边有人管饭，回去要自己做饭，饭菜肯定没这么好。
My mother joked that she didn't particularly want to go back, because there were people here who cared for the food and wanted to cook it themselves.
但我们会考虑到医疗资源缺乏的问题，现在官方数据有6、7万人确诊，所有的床位加起来只有1万多张。
But we will take into account the lack of medical resources. There are now some 60,000 to 70,000 official diagnoses and only more than 10,000 beds.
而每位患者住院的周期都很长，你住在医院里，总有外面的人要等着。
And each patient is hospitalized for a long time, you live in a hospital, there is always someone outside to wait.
像我，住了一周都还没出去，外面的人就要耗一周才能够进来。
Like me, I haven't been out for a week, and it takes the outside world a week to get in.
当初，我带我爸去看病时，很多人扛不过一周。
When I took my dad to see a doctor, a lot of people couldn't do it for a week.
那时我加了很多患者群，每天看着群里的消息真的非常压抑，因为你会突然在群里看到，有个人说他爸爸走了。
I added a lot of sufferers, and it was really depressing to look at the group every day because you would suddenly see someone in the group saying his father was gone.
群里都是同龄人，他们父母的年纪跟我爸妈差不多，真的不知道该说什么。
The group are peers, their parents are about the same age as my parents, really do not know what to say.
别人的无助等同于我的无助，他没有办法的事，我也没办法。
The helplessness of others equates to my helplessness, he can not do anything, I can not do.
所以那段时间，我觉得特别压抑。
So at that time, I felt especially depressed.
“健康活着就好”每年年初我们不是都会说，今年的愿望是什么吗？以前我的愿望都是挣更多钱，去更远的地方。
"Live Well" At the beginning of each year, we all say, "What's the wish this year? My wish used to be to make more money and go further."
从来没想过有一年，大家的愿望都是健健康康活着就好。
Have never thought of one year, everybody's desire is healthy and healthy to live.
我很喜欢看电影，经常有看到一些癌症或者其他重疾患者的故事。
I love going to the movies and I often see stories of people suffering from cancer or other serious illnesses.
里边的主人公刚开始住进医院自己很有信心，家里人却没信心，靠自己给自己打气。
Inside the protagonist just began to live in the hospital is very confident, but the family did not have the confidence to rely on their own self-encouragement.
到了后来，周围所有人都给他打气，要他加油，自己却没有什么信心了。
At last, everyone around him gave him a pep talk to cheer him up, but he had little confidence in himself.
因为别人永远不懂治疗会有多痛苦，到底有没有希望，其实只有患者自己知道。
Because other people never understand how painful treatment will be, whether there is hope, in fact, only the patients themselves know.
所以网上说的“加油”和“坚持”都很苍白无力。
So the online said "refueling" and "persist" are very weak.
通过这件事情，我才理解了那些患者的心情。
It was through this that I understood the feelings of those patients.
但我很知足了，至少我是不幸的人里幸运的那个。
But I am content, at least I am the lucky one among the unfortunate.
我们出院后，按要求要在家隔离14天，可能后面还会有很多事情发生。
After we were discharged from the hospital, we were required to remain in isolation for 14 days, and many more might follow.
但我感觉会慢慢过去的。
But I feel like I'm gonna get over it.
「相关文章」疫区日记 I我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”「征集活动」无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系分享你与疫情的故事「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信。
We want to do something for the city 120 ambulance. "We live in the same home, but we can not meet each other" "Call for information" Whether you are living in the same home, you can not meet each other.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
住在方舱的摄影师：这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了。
Photographer living in the cabin: This photo was on the front page of the People's Daily today.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "住在方舱的摄影师：这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; resident photographer: & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var msg_desc = "“我们一家三口在不同的地方住院”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Three members of our family were hospitalized at a different location";
title: '疫区日记 I',。
A diary I & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情',。
We are from Wuhan and would like to do something with & apos; for this city.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
