感染、病危、治愈、重返一线，一位武汉ICU主任的38天生死劫。
Infection, critical illness, cure, re-entry line, a Wuhan ICU director of 38 days of life and death.
健闻王晨。
Good news Wang Chen.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
致敬所有奋战在一线的医护人员。
Hail all the health care workers on the front line.
武汉的一月，气温总在10度以下，阴雨天气占了大半。
Wuhan in January, the temperature is always below 10 degrees, rainy weather accounted for most of the.
2020年1月14日那天，不仅有雨，还有三到四级的风。
On January 14, 2020, there will be not only rain, but also three to four winds.
武汉协和东西湖医院重症监护室（ICU）主任袁海涛和他的同事，推着一个因病毒性肺炎插管的病人，从传染科转移到重症监护室。
Yuan Haitao, director of the intensive care unit (ICU) of Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital, and his colleagues, pushed a patient with viral pneumonia intubation from the infective unit to the intensive care unit.
病人37岁，没有基础性疾病。
The patient is 37 years old and has no underlying disease.
他是一个1月8号才有名字的新型冠状病毒肺炎（在这之前，还被称为不明原因肺炎）的“疑似病人”，正面临着“生死劫”。
He is a "suspected patient" of a new coronavirus pneumonia (previously known as pneumonia), named January 8, facing a "death sentence."
“疑似”只是因为缺少程序上的“核酸检测”，在袁海涛等一线临床医生的判断中，早已是新冠临床确诊病人。
"Suspected" just because of the lack of procedural "nucleic acid testing", in Yuan Haitao and other frontline clinicians judgement, is the new crown clinical confirmed patient.
这种新型病毒，往往让病人早期出现特殊的“毛玻璃”状的肺部CT影像，后期变为“白肺”，明显地区别于一般细菌性肺炎。
The new virus, which often causes patients to develop special "glass-like" lung CT images in the early stages, becomes "white lungs" later on, distinguishing them markedly from common bacterial pneumonia.
而这个病人，四分之三的肺部都已是“白肺”，已是极其危重的重度ARDS（成人呼吸窘迫综合征）状态，已到了不得不插管的地步。
And three-quarters of the patient's lungs are already "white lung," an extremely critical condition known as severe ARDS (adult respiratory distress syndrome), to the point of having to be intubated.
传染科病房转到ICU只有600米，是一个病人濒临死亡，用常规方法已经无法救治的标志。
Infection ward to ICU is only 600 meters, is a patient dying, the use of conventional methods have become incurable signs.
一个病情逐渐加重的病人，病毒载量都异常高，即使在户外，空气也并不安全。
In a progressively worse patient, the viral load is unusually high, and even outdoors, the air is unsafe.
病毒让他的肺部功能几乎丧失，病人像溺水的人一样，呼吸困难，挣扎躁动，袁海涛他们不得不用力按着他，雨水混杂污水流进他的护目镜，打湿了他的二级防护服。
The virus nearly destroyed his lung function, the patient breathed like a drowning man, struggled restlessly, Yuan Haitao had to press hard on him, and the rain mixed into his goggles, wetting his secondary protective clothing.
第二天，他就开始发烧了。
The next day he began to have a fever.
此后的二十多天里，当袁海涛自己的身份转为新冠疑似病人、确诊病人、病情不断严重到插管边缘时，他才意识到，1月14日那600米的路程，也是一个医生，在抗击新冠疫情中的“生死劫”。
It was not until more than 20 days later, when Yuan Haitao turned himself into a suspected new crowns patient, confirmed the patient, and became seriously ill until the edge of the intubation, he realized that the 600-meter journey on January 14 was also a doctor's life-or-death struggle against the New Crown.
△ 袁海涛工作照，受访者供图             感染：一开始，医生们在防护上却并未特别在意转移完病人的那一天，袁海涛在医院住了一夜。
Yuan Haitao worked on a photo of people being infected: Initially, doctors were not particularly concerned about the day after the transfer. Yuan Haitao spent a night in a hospital.
那段时间，他特别忙。
At that time, he was very busy.
从1月初，他就成为武汉东西湖区不明原因肺炎专家组（后改名为新冠专家组）成员，他要参与东西湖区新冠相关病例的会诊。
Since early January, he has been a member of the Wuhan Eastern and Western Lakes Group of Experts on Unexplained Pneumonia (later renamed the New Crown Expert Group), where he will attend consultations on cases related to the new crown in the Eastern and Western Lakes region.
在1月14日之前，每天都要查房、会诊、讨论的袁海涛已经经历了几十个病人。
Before January 14, Yuan Haitao, who had to be checked, consulted and discussed every day, had gone through dozens of patients.
他所在的医院，协和东西湖区医院在1月中上旬有三十多个“疑似病人”住院，住在医院感染科。
His hospital, Concorde Lake District Hospital, had more than 30 "suspected patients" hospitalized in hospital infection departments in early January.
收治的病人中，大部分都没有华南海鲜市场接触史。
Most of the patients admitted did not have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market.
1月初武汉市并没有核酸检测试剂，后来有了，也有一个漫长的确诊周期：经过专家组会诊后，上报市疾控，市疾控确诊后，上报省疾控，病人等不及。
Wuhan City in early January did not have a nucleic acid detection reagent, later, there is a long diagnosis cycle: after expert group consultation, reported to the municipal disease control, the city disease control confirmed, reported to the provincial disease control, patients can not wait.
大部分医院，在早期床位充足时，收治病人是通过肺部CT影像——新冠病毒肺炎患者的肺部CT有显著的毛玻璃状，明显区别于其它肺炎。
In most hospitals, where early beds are plentiful, patients are treated with CT images of the lungs, which are markedly glassy and distinct from other pneumonia.
虽然当时专家组的意见是未发现明显的人传人，确诊患者数字在很长一段时间内也停留在41例，没有增加。
Although the Group's observation at the time was that no significant human-to-human transmission had been observed, the number of confirmed cases had remained unchanged at 41 cases for a long time, with no increase.
但武汉各大医院感染科、发热门诊的医生根据自己往年的经验，对这一点存疑：他们认为，只要是病毒性肺炎都存在人传人的风险；在已确诊的40余例中，有一例有家族聚集史，这预示着人传人的可能。
But doctors at the infection and fever clinics in Wuhan's major hospitals, based on their experience in previous years, have questioned whether there is a risk of human-to-human transmission of viral pneumonia, and that in one of the more than 40 cases diagnosed, there is a history of family agglomeration, which portends a potential for human-to-human transmission.
但长期在医院这种事业单位体制内生存的医生们，对外遵循统一的口径，他们只能在私下里悄悄交流各自医院的情况。
But doctors, who have long lived in the hospital system, speak with one voice, and can only whisper about their hospitals in private.
医生们隐约从别的医院听说，武汉市中心医院可能有医护人员感染，武汉协和神经外科有十几名医护人员“中招”，神外出身的袁海涛曾问过武汉协和神经外科的医生，对方没有明说，只说了一句“现在科室停诊”。
Doctors vaguely heard from other hospitals, Wuhan central hospital may be infected with medical personnel, Wuhan Concorde Neurosurgery has a dozen medical personnel "Zhongzhi," Yuan Haitao was born outside of the gods asked the doctor of Wuhan Concorde Neurosurgery, the other side did not explicitly, said only a "department now stop diagnosis.
重症医学科的医生们私下交流，互相提醒，接触这种病人要小心。
Doctors in intensive care practice communicate with each other in private, reminding each other to be careful when contacting such patients.
一开始，医生们对新冠病毒的传染性不了解，加上早期发病的病人以轻症患者居多，即便认为可能人传人，大家在防护上却并未特别在意。
At first, doctors were unaware of the infectious nature of the new crown virus, and the preponderance of early-stage cases of mild illness meant that even though it was thought possible to spread from person to person, no special attention was paid to protection.
袁海涛在早期会诊轻症病人时，和其它专家一样，只戴一个口罩，然后洗手，有时甚至连口罩也忘记戴。
Like other experts, Yuan Haitao wore only one mask when he first consulted light patients, then washed his hands and sometimes even forgot to wear a mask.
至于其他对这种疾病不太了解的医生，接诊病人甚至连口罩都不戴。
As for other doctors who do not know much about the disease, patients are treated without even wearing masks.
疾病发展需要一个周期，在武汉各大医院中，轻症患者中有一部分的病情逐渐加重，对于症状加重的病人，东西湖医院自己要求医护人员防护升级到二级防护。
The development of disease needs a cycle, in Wuhan major hospitals, some of the patients with mild illness gradually increased, for the symptoms of patients, the East and West Lake Hospital themselves require health-care personnel to upgrade the protection to secondary protection.
1月14日那个插管病人，是袁海涛印象中的第一例危重症病人。
January 14 that intubation patient, Yuan Haitao impression of the first case of critical illness.
对这个病人，东西湖区疾控来了工作人员进行会诊。
To this patient, east and west lake disease control staff to consult.
不经意间，区疾控的工作人员说了一句话，大意是，这个病可能比你们想象的严重，轻症病人要做二级防护，像这样的危重症病人插管、吸痰时要做三级防护。
Carelessly, the District CDC staff said a sentence to the effect that the disease may be more serious than you think, light patients to do secondary protection, such as patients in critical cases such as intubation, spitting to do three-tier protection.
疾控工作人员这一不经意、非正式的提醒，几乎证实了病毒不仅人传人，而且在传染性上不可掉以轻心。
CDC staff this casual, informal reminder, almost confirmed that the virus is not only human-to-human, but also infectious not easy.
那时不少医院还缺少三级防护措施，因此这个病人在进行插管时，东西湖医院向区疾控借了一个三级防护需要的正压头套。
There was a lack of tertiary protection in many hospitals, so the patient was intubated and the East-West Lake Hospital borrowed a positive-pressure hood for level-III protection from the District CDC.
1月15日，加班在医院住了一晚的袁海涛回到了家中，感觉肌肉酸痛，他心想，该不会中招了吧？千万不要发烧。
On January 15, Yuan Haitao returned home after spending the night in the hospital, feeling sore muscles. He thought, "Can't you just confess? Don't get a fever."
当天晚上，他独自在书房睡下了，担心的情况发生了，他开始发烧，体温达39℃。
That night, alone in his study, he fell asleep. Worried, he began to have a fever, which reached 39 degrees Celsius.
第二天一早他急忙赶往医院，在路上，给家人打了一个电话，让他们把书房用消毒液和酒精消毒，开窗通风，做好交待，去放射科拍片，他的肺部CT已有毛玻璃样阴影，一做血常规，“八九不离十”是新冠肺炎，于是马上安排隔离、住院。
Early the next morning he rushed to the hospital. On the way, he called his family and told them to disinfect the study with disinfectant and alcohol, air the windows, make a clean presentation, go to the radiology department, his lungs had been shaded by the wool glass.
△ 治疗中的袁海涛，受访者供图病危：清醒地意识到自己可能要插管这时，原来的住院科室已经没床了，直到当天晚上，袁海涛才住进刚刚改造好的病房。
Yuan Haitao, one of the patients undergoing treatment, was on the verge of death: He was clearly aware that he might have to be intubated. By this time, the original inpatient department had run out of beds. It was only later that night that Yuan Haitao moved into the newly renovated ward.
1月初，武汉协和东西湖医院被市里定为收治新冠肺炎的定点医院。
In early January, Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital was designated by the city as the designated hospital for new crown pneumonia.
1月中旬，医院收治的疑似病人越来越多，感染科30多张床位很快就不够用。
In mid-January, the hospital admitted an increasing number of suspected patients, and more than 30 beds in the Infection Unit soon became inadequate.
武汉对外公报的病例长期停留在41例时，医院自己开始将呼吸科两层楼的开放病房改造为隔离病房，将原来呼吸科住的非新冠肺炎的肺部感染病人和慢性支气管炎病人劝离出去，改造后的呼吸科全部收治新冠疑似病人。
Wuhan external bulletin of cases of long-term stay in 41 cases, the hospital began to transform the respiratory department of the two-storey open ward into an isolation ward, the former respiratory patients and chronic bronchitis patients living in non-coronary pneumonia, the re-engineered respiratory department all admitted the suspected patients.
袁海涛的住院，在东西湖医院内部对全部人员都是一个重大的警醒。
Yuan Haitao's hospitalization in the East-West Lake Hospital is a major wake-up call for all personnel.
一线医生的感染，坐实了新冠病毒“人传人”的可能。
The infection of the first-line doctor confirmed the possibility of human-to-human transmission of the new crown virus.
从此，医护人员主动地相互提醒防护措施做得够不够。
Since then, medical staff have proactively reminded each other of the inadequacy of protective measures.
一月中下旬病人激增的情况下，医护人员的防护意识增强是对自身的重要保护。
With the patient surge in the second half of January, the increased awareness of health care workers is an important protection for themselves.
但病人那边，却不容乐观。
But the patient side, but not optimistic.
改造后的床位不断增加，但赶不上新冠患者的增长速度。
The number of beds has been increasing, but it has not kept pace with the rate of new crowns.
1月上旬，只要是肺部CT异常的病人还可以收治入院，到了1月中旬，这个条件就难以执行。
Early in January, patients with pulmonary CT abnormalities were admitted to hospital, a condition that was difficult to implement by mid-January.
住不进医院的肺部CT异常的病人，医生只能建议门诊用药、门诊输液，然后回家观察。
Patients with pulmonary CT abnormalities who cannot be admitted to the hospital can only be advised to outpatient medication, outpatient infusion, and then home observation.
那时，社区参与的居家隔离政策尚未出台，医生建议的回家隔离，并没有丝毫约束力。
At that time, community involvement in the isolation policy was not yet in place, the doctor recommended home isolation, not the slightest binding.
在发热门诊，一个医生后面有几十乃至上百个病人等待就诊，环境嘈杂，医生不可能有时间详细叮嘱病人回家隔离的种种细节，这些病人回家后极有可能传染家人，而且这些住不进医院的病人，因私家车在医院附近难以停车，他们往往乘坐地铁、公交等公共交通工具，辗转各大医院求医。
In a fever clinic, where dozens or even hundreds of patients are waiting to see a doctor, the environment is noisy, and doctors cannot afford to give patients time to tell their patients to go home for isolation, which is highly likely to infect their families.
这段时间这些病人成为数量巨大的移动传染源，而被他们传染的人有较长的潜伏期，甚至无症状，成为新的传染源，这一切为日后武汉新冠病人确诊、疑似人数呈几何数量的激增，埋下了导火索。
These patients have become a huge source of mobile infection, while those infected by them have a longer incubation period, or even no symptoms, and become a new source of infection, all of which set the stage for an exponential growth in the number of patients diagnosed and suspected in the new Wuhan crown.
一年的年底到第二年初的春节之间，是每年节日最多的一段日子。
The Spring Festival between the end of the year and the beginning of the second year is the most festive period of the year.
因为有圣诞节、元旦、小年、除夕，春节这些节日在前面等待。
Because there is Christmas, New Year's Day, Year's Eve, Spring Festival in front of these waiting.
不管武汉的天气如何，人们都喜气洋洋，18号是南方的小年，住院两天的袁海涛问妻子，了解到街上戴口罩的百姓依旧寥寥无几，他们走亲访友准备年货，医院的紧张和外界的祥和，冰火两重天。
No matter what the weather is in Wuhan, people are beaming, 18 is a small year in the south, two days in hospital Yuan Haitao asked his wife about the street still very few people wearing masks, they visit relatives and friends to prepare New Year's goods, hospital tension and the peace of the outside world.
核酸检测的等待期依旧漫长，袁海涛住院两天之后，18日才做了第一次核酸检测，结果是阴性。
The waiting period for nucleic acid testing is still long, Yuan Haitao was hospitalized for two days before making his first nucleic acid test, which turned negative.
临床医生都知道，核酸检测的准确性受病毒载量和取样的限制，准确率只有30%-50%，很多医生形容就像钓鱼，如果钓上鱼来，证明池塘里一定有鱼，如果钓不上来，不代表这个池塘里没有鱼。
Clinicians know that the accuracy of nucleic acid testing is limited by viral load and sampling, with an accuracy of only 30% -50%. Many doctors describe it as like fishing.
不管核酸检测结果如何，只要症状不减轻，该治疗还要治疗。
Regardless of the nucleic acid test results, as long as the symptoms do not alleviate, the treatment will be treated.
在这几天内，他16日开始口服药，17日开始输液，但症状却日趋严重，每天高烧不退，肺部的CT检查，每次的阴影都有所增加。
During these days, he began to take drugs orally on the 16th, but began infusion on the 17th, but the symptoms are growing, daily high fever, CT examination of the lungs, each time the shadow increased.
住院十天时，袁海涛已经到了说话都困难的地步。
Ten days in hospital, Yuan Haitao had already reached the point where he could hardly speak.
在同学同事眼中性格极其淡定的他，在熟人的群聊中总是轻描淡写，说自己的病情问题不大。
In the classmate's eye character is extremely calm, in acquaintances' group chat always understates, said own illness problem is not big.
在治疗过程中，他和主治医生一起讨论对自己的治疗方案。
During the treatment, he discusses his treatment plan with the attending physician.
但持续治疗不见好转之后，袁海涛内心开始焦躁，开始有不详的预感。
But continued treatment did not improve, Yuan Haitao heart began to worry, began to have a bad presentiment.
呼吸极其困难时，他上了经鼻高流量，但症状丝毫未好转，身为重症监护室主任的他，清醒地意识到自己下一步面临的很可能是“插管，上有创呼吸机”。
When he was breathing extremely hard, he had high nasal flow, but the symptoms did not improve. As the head of intensive care unit, he was well aware that his next step would likely be "intubation, invasive breathing machine."
对于插管，医生内部面临着争议。
Doctors face internal controversy over intubation.
对大部分呼吸科医生来说，插管上有创呼吸机对病毒性肺炎病人是一个槛，后面每一步都面临更多风险。
For most respiratory doctors, a invasive ventilator on a catheter is a sill for viral pneumonia patients, and each step is more risky.
插管后，人会极不舒服，容易出现人机对抗，如果使用镇静、镇痛药也无效，就会用肌松剂停掉病人的自主呼吸，完全靠机控呼吸。
Intubation, people are very uncomfortable, prone to man-machine confrontation, if the use of sedatives, analgesics also ineffective, will use muscle relaxant to stop the patient's autonomous breathing, rely on machine-controlled breathing.
此外，插管之后，病人的口咽屏障消失，门户大开，面临细菌、真菌感染，全身的机能、免疫力下降，肺部感染进一步加重，后来可能面临多器官功能的障碍和衰竭，然后一步步走向死亡。
In addition, following intubation, the patient's oropharyngeal barrier disappears, the door opens wide, the patient is exposed to bacterial and fungal infections, systemic dysfunction, reduced immunity, further exacerbation of lung infections, and may later face multiple organ dysfunction and failure, leading to death step by step.
即使主张对危重病人早插管的重症科医生，也在评估病人是否插管上，极其慎重。
Even the intensive care physician who advocates early intubation in critically ill patients is extremely cautious in assessing whether the patient is intubated.
如果不插管能够扛过来固然很好，但那时的袁海涛以及治疗他的医生，都认为不乐观了。
It would have been nice to carry it without an intubation, but Yuan Haitao and the doctors who treated him thought it was a bad idea.
距离1月14日已半个月，一部分轻症病人已慢慢转化为重症。
Half a month after January 14, some patients with mild illness have slowly turned into serious illness.
医生们对新冠病毒肺炎的认知在临床实践中不断积累，他们发现，轻症的患者，有一部分人会持续轻症，可以慢慢恢复。
Doctors' knowledge of pneumonia is accumulating in clinical practice, and they have found that some people with mild cases continue to develop mild symptoms that can slowly recover.
而另有一部分病人会转化为重症，由轻到重的时间是十天到两周左右。
Other patients will be transformed into serious illness, from light to heavy time is about 10 days to two weeks.
有时轻症到重症，会有一个忽然的变化。
Sometimes mild to severe, there will be a sudden change.
22日前后，在住院的袁海涛听到钟南山院士公开讲新冠病毒是“人传人”的，他松了一口气，觉得终于有一个有身份地位、有业界公信力的人公开说这句话了，让他们这些心存疑虑的医护人员确认了“人传人”的事实，也让各方都意识到事情的严重性。
About 22 days ago, when Yuan Haitao was hospitalized, he was relieved to hear academician Zhong Nan-shan publicly proclaim that the new cap virus is "human-to-human." He felt that someone of stature and credibility in the industry had finally spoken out, allowing their skeptical medical staff to confirm the fact of "person-to-person" and to make everyone aware of the seriousness of the situation.
1月28日前后，东西湖医院的重症监护室已经住满了病人，而在普通病房，根本就不具备插管上有创呼吸机的条件。
Around January 28, the intensive care unit at the East-West Lake Hospital was full of patients, while in the general ward the invasive ventilator on the cannula was not available at all.
即便袁海涛是重症监护室主任，也不可能把别的病人赶走，自己住进去。
Even though Yuan Haitao is the director of intensive care unit, it is impossible to drive away other patients and live in it.
他和院领导商量，决定转院。
He discussed it with the hospital leadership and decided to transfer it.
△ 2月7日，袁海涛出院，妻子来接他。
On February 7, Yuan Haitao was released from hospital and his wife came to pick him up.
图片来源：武汉市东西湖区人民政府官方微博出院、隔离、重返一线：上了战场就不能当逃兵1月29日，袁海涛转入武汉市肺科医院的重症监护室，在这里做的核酸检测，结果是双阳性，也就是确诊了。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Yuan Haitao was transferred to the intensive care unit of Wuhan Lung Hospital on January 29 and tested positive for nucleic acid, a diagnosis.
肺科医院重症监护室的主任胡明是袁海涛的好友，听到袁海涛病情危重消息的一瞬间忍不住大哭了一场。
Wu Ming, director of the intensive care unit of the lung hospital, was a friend of Yuan Haitao's.
亲自查看袁海涛病情后，胡明决定赌一下，继续给袁海涛用经鼻高流量治疗，如果这一关熬得过去，就不用插管。
After personally inspecting Yuan Haitao's illness, Hu Ming decided to bet that Yuan Haitao should continue to be treated with high nasal flow.
当时北京朝阳医院的几位呼吸科专家和中部战区总医院的ICU邬明主任来援助肺科医院，也参与了袁海涛的治疗。
Several respiratory experts from the Beijing Chaoyang Hospital and the director of ICU Wu Ming from the Central Theatre General Hospital came to the assistance of the hospital and also participated in the treatment of Yuan Haitao.
经鼻高流量治疗，是无创呼吸机的一种，也让人极度不适，要病人在使用的过程中高度配合，大多数人不容易耐受。
Transnasal high flow treatment, is a non-invasive breathing machine, also makes people extremely uncomfortable, patients in the use of a high degree of cooperation, most people are not easy to tolerate.
在肺科医院，和袁海涛同房间的那位病人，也是一位年轻的男性，一直不适应无创呼吸机，最终插管上了有创呼吸机。
At the lung hospital, the patient in the room with Yuan Haitao, a young man, never adapted to a non-invasive ventilator, eventually inserted a invasive ventilator.
袁海涛使用经鼻高流量治疗，虽然未见明显好转，但他告诉自己，再难也要坚持，如果最终不得插管上有创，意识丧失，那就会完全失去对自己病情的决策权，同时面临更多的风险。
Yuan Haitao used transnasal high-flow therapy, although he did not see a significant improvement, but he told himself, no matter how difficult it is, if not eventually invasive intubation, loss of consciousness, will completely lose their decision-making power over their illness, while facing more risks.
幸运的是，在坚持几天后中，他的呼吸功能逐渐变好，血氧饱和度脱离危险边缘，发烧长达半个月之久的袁海涛开始退烧，他很高兴：这是个好兆头。
Fortunately, over the course of a few days, his breathing became better, his blood oxygen saturation was off the edge, and Yuan Haitao, who had a fever for half a month, began to get rid of his fever.
事后回忆，袁海涛认为，新冠病毒肺炎虽然有许多未解之谜，但在治疗方向没有跳出病毒性肺炎这个大框架。
After the event, Yuan Haitao thought that although there are many unsolved pneumonia, but in the direction of treatment did not jump out of the viral pneumonia framework.
要降低死亡率，有三条治疗准则：抗病毒治疗、控制并发症和增强免疫力。
To reduce mortality, there are three guidelines: antiviral treatment, managing complications, and boosting immunity.
袁海涛认为自己治疗的转折点，在于免疫力增强。
Yuan Haitao thinks the turning point of his treatment is the strengthening of immunity.
在转入肺科医院前十几天，他的血象检查，淋巴细胞一直很低。
Ten days before he was transferred to the pulmonary hospital, his blood was examined and the lymphocytes remained low.
转院之后，用了增强免疫力的药，淋巴细胞增多后，才逐渐好转。
After the hospital transfer, the use of immune-enhancing drugs, lymphocytes increased, only gradually improved.
随后的一周，袁海涛的症状不断减轻。
The following week, Yuan Haitao's symptoms continued to abate.
准备出院时，因为不放心核酸检测的结果，他做了三次核酸检测——比出院标准的要求还多一次。
As he was getting ready to leave the hospital, he underwent three nucleic acid tests - one more than the discharge criteria required - because of concerns about the results of the nucleic acid tests.
三次的核酸检测结果都是阴性，肺部CT有明显好转，但并未完全恢复。
Three times the nucleic acid test results are negative, the pulmonary CT has obviously improved, but not completely recovered.
2月7日，达到出院标准的他出院后，转入了东西湖医院为医护人员专门设置的隔离病房，进行为期十四天的隔离。
On 7 February, he was discharged from the hospital after meeting the discharge criteria and was transferred to a special isolation ward for medical staff at the East-West Lake Hospital for a period of 14 days.
住院的这二十多天，外界的变化翻天覆地。
During these 20 days of hospitalization, the outside world changed a lot.
武汉市的新冠病人确诊人数，已经由最初公布的41例，暴增至14982例，暴增的原因，包括当初未及时让人们预防人传人时的感染，居家隔离不力的交叉感染，潜伏期病人的发病，以及核酸检测的大力推进。
The number of newly diagnosed cases in Wuhan has risen to 14,982, up from 41 initially reported, including delays in preventing human-to-human transmission, cross-infection from poor home isolation, the onset of latent period patients, and aggressive promotion of nucleic acid testing.
虽然确诊人数暴增，医护人员的压力却没有他当初入院时那么大，因为在这半个月内，武汉已经开始四类人的分类收治，定点医院已经扩展到第5批，可以收治重症病人的床位数已经扩展到9000多张，轻症确诊病人到方舱医院，危重症病人到新建的雷神山、火神山以及定点医院，疑似和密切接触人员到宾馆隔离点。
Although the number of confirmed cases has surged, the pressure on medical personnel is not as great as when he was admitted to the hospital. During this half month, Wuhan has started to classify four categories of patients, the number of beds for patients with serious diseases has expanded to more than 9,000.
不断有危重症病人从东西湖转出去，转到同济中法医院等有ECMO的医院，轻症的病人也不像当初堵塞在门诊和急诊大厅。
Patients in critical condition continue to be transferred from the East-West Lake to ECMO hospitals, such as Tongzhong-France Hospital, and patients with mild illnesses are not as congested as when they were in outpatient and emergency rooms.
袁海涛认为，病人分流的方向是正确的，不同医院可以分门别类地治疗某一种类型的病人，有利于对病人的治疗和管理。
Yuan Haitao believes that the direction of patient diversion is right, different hospitals can treat a certain type of patients, conducive to the treatment and management of patients.
2月21日，袁海涛结束隔离期，回归一线和同事继续救治新冠病人。
February 21, Yuan Haitao end isolation period, return to the front line and colleagues to continue to treat new crown patients.
在此时，全国的医务人员同行，已有3000余位被感染，其中已有超过10位医护人员去世。
Meanwhile, more than 3,000 medical professionals have been infected, and more than 10 of them have died.
经历过生死线的袁海涛感慨，不管医护人员平时如何，但需要他们挺身而出的时候他们决不会退。
Yuan Haitao, who experienced life-and-death experience, lamented that no matter what medical staff were doing in normal times, they would never step back when they were needed.
新冠肺炎对大家都是未知的，每个人都会有一种恐慌和无助，但只要上了战场就不能当逃兵，虽然不知道子弹最终会击中哪里。
The New Crown Pneumonia is unknown to everyone, and everyone has a sense of panic and helplessness, but as long as on the battlefield can not be a deserter, although it is not known where the bullet will eventually hit.
王晨|撰稿微信号：2174127王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
WANG Chen & # 124; Writing microsignal: 2174127 Wang Jiriku; Blame microsignal: wangjilu006 We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻王晨。
Good news Wang Chen.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
感染、病危、治愈、重返一线，一位武汉ICU主任的38天生死劫。
Infection, critical illness, cure, re-entry line, a Wuhan ICU director of 38 days of life and death.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "感染、病危、治愈、重返一线，一位武汉ICU主任的38天生死劫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Infected, critically ill, cured, and reintegrated, a 38-day life-and-death visit by Wuhan ICU director.
var msg_desc = "历经生死后袁海涛说：上了战场就不能当逃兵";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
