疫情风暴眼中的武汉居民生活 | 特写。
Wuhan residents seen in the eye of the storm.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
The following article comes from 南方都市报。
The following article comes from the Southern Metropolis Daily.
Author 南方都市报。
Author Southern Metropolis Daily.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
南都，换一种方式。
Nandu, a different way.
公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭……除夕至，武汉人今年的春节注定要不一样了。
Bus, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport suspended operations, airports, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed... New Year's Eve, Wuhan people this year is doomed to be different.
农历2019年的最后一天，武汉市卫健委通报关于武汉市肺炎疫情情况，截至23日24时，全国已累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例830例。
On the last day of the 2019 lunar calendar, Wuhan city health committee reported the situation of pneumonia in Wuhan, as of 2400 hours on the 23 cumulative reported cases of new coronavirus infection of 830 cases of pneumonia.
1月23日上午10时，距离通报23天后，官方宣布武汉全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
On January 23, at 10 a.m., 23 days after the announcement, the authorities announced Wuhan city bus, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation suspended, the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，恢复时间另行通告。
No special reason, the public do not leave Wuhan, recovery time will be announced separately.
被外界称为“封城”后的第一天，武汉城内不少家庭开始着手囤粮，取消年夜饭、朋友聚会和祭扫。
On the first day after the city was declared closed, families in Wuhan began hoarding grain and canceling dinner, friends' parties and sweeps.
湖北省省长王晓东表示，武汉市物资储备和市场供应是充足的。
The governor of Hubei province, Wang Xiaodong, said supplies and markets in Wuhan were sufficient.
目前，云南、海南等地的农副产品也在源源不断地往武汉调运。
At present, Yunnan, Hainan and other places of agricultural and sideline products are also continuously transferred to Wuhan.
武汉城外，一些无法回家的武汉人一遍遍刷着手机内的疫情报道，还有一批非武汉市民，为避免影响他人选择留守武汉。
Outside Wuhan, some Wuhan people who can not go home again and again brush mobile phone reports of the epidemic, there are a number of non-Wuhan, to avoid affecting the choice of others to stay in Wuhan.
武汉“封城”前后，这些城内外的武汉人生活有何变化？南都记者电话连线跟他们聊了聊。
Wuhan "sealing the city" before and after, these inside and outside Wuhan life changes? Nan Duo reporter telephone line to chat with them.
01“没顾上看价格，货架上有的都拿了”一觉醒来，家住武汉市汉阳区的李涛发现武汉封城了。
01 "Do not look at the price, some on the shelf take" a wake-up, home to Wuhan Hanyang District Li Tao found Wuhan sealed.
1月23日上午10点起，武汉全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
From 10 a.m. on January 23, Wuhan city bus, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport suspended operation, the airport railway station from Han corridor temporarily closed.
图源：新华视点李涛的第一反应就是跑去附近的菜市场买菜，要过年了，年货都还未来得及囤。
Source: Xinhua perspective Li Tao's first reaction is to run to the nearby vegetable market to buy vegetables, to celebrate the New Year, the goods have not yet been hoarded.
家周边的小菜场已经没剩下什么，他赶紧开车到附近的菜市场，这是他近三天来第一次开车出门，“菜市场人山人海，菜场里的人好多都戴着口罩。
He drove to a nearby vegetable market for the first time in nearly three days. "The market is crowded with people, and many of the people in the market wear masks.
”胡萝卜、白萝卜、青椒、洋葱、大蒜，能拿多少拿多少，“没顾得上看价格，只要货架上有的都拿了，不是买多少买什么的问题，而是抢不抢得到。
"Carrots, turnips, green peppers, onions and garlic take as much as you can," regardless of the price.
”李涛告诉南都，印象中菜价确实涨了，最后结账花了近三百，“涨价也没办法，你不要别人要，还有从别人手里抢菜的。
Li Tao told Nandu that the impression was that the price of vegetables had really gone up and that the final bill had cost nearly 300 yuan.
”李涛的父母住在武汉市蔡甸区，距离汉阳区的距离大约是30公里，父母本来准备过来送点物资，因封了收费站，父母放弃了这个打算。
Li Tao's parents, who live in Cai Den district of Wuhan city about 30 kilometers from Hanyang district, gave up plans to send supplies when the toll gates were sealed.
据中央广播电视总台中国交通广播消息，1月23日下午1点40分，目前京港澳高速武汉西、武汉北、蔡甸、永安收费站入口封闭。
At 1: 40 p.m. on January 23, the entrances to Wuhan West, Wuhan North, Cai dian and Yongan toll gates of the Beijing-Hong Kong-Macao Expressway were closed at 1.40 p.m.
收费站关闭，市内的公共交通也停运了，据说高架桥也关停了，李涛开着私家车转去四新南路上的加油站，心想给车加点油，“结果一条道上都是车去排队加油的。
When toll gates were closed and public transport in the city was shut down, the viaduct was said to be closed, Li Tao drove his private car to a petrol station on Four New South Road in an attempt to refill it.
”李涛想着，春节不出门走动了，车耗不了什么油，索性回家了。
Li Tao thought, the Spring Festival does not go out to walk, the car can not consume any oil, simply go home.
李涛不担心自己的身体，但家里还有个怀孕的老婆，老婆是湖北省人民医院的护士，早在1月11日，就告诉李涛要做好防护，李涛的公司就在金银潭医院附近，他之后坚持每天戴上口罩开车上班，“因为戴口罩当时还被公司的职员嘲笑了。
Li Tao does not worry about his health, but his wife, a nurse from the People's Hospital in Hubei Province, told Li Tao as early as January 11 to take precautions. Li Tao's company was near the gold and silver pool hospital.
”因老婆的嘱咐，他当时一口气买了1000多块钱的口罩，“198一盒三十个的N95口罩，老婆觉得多了，我还退了六七百的口罩，没想到现在口罩完全不够用，到处都买不到口罩了。
"Because of his wife's orders, he bought more than 1000 yuan worth of face masks in one go." 198 boxes of 30 N95 masks, the wife felt more, I returned six or seven hundred masks, but now there is not enough masks, everywhere can not buy masks.
”22日晚，家族群里就已经都商定好今年都不拜年了，连往年大年初一准点的祭拜活动也省了。
On the evening of the 22nd, the family had agreed not to pay New Year's Eve this year, and even the first day of the New Year's Day celebrations had been saved.
“家里老人也理解，爸妈都让我们不要出门了，我也害怕亲戚过来串门，尤其是现在家里还有个宝贝，孕妇万一染上了也不能吃药。
"The old man also understood that our parents told us not to go out, and I was afraid of relatives visiting, especially now that there is a baby at home, pregnant women should not take medicine in case of infection.
”老婆前段时间因为怀孕没去医院上班了，但仍跟同事们保持着密切联系。
"My wife didn't go to the hospital because she was pregnant some time ago, but she still keeps in close touch with her colleagues.
“老婆科室里有一半的人都去支援发热门诊和定点医院了。
"Half the people in the wife's office go to the fever clinic and the designated hospital.
”李涛听说，医院的物资挺紧缺的，他期待未来，能有更多的医疗资源支援武汉。
Li Tao heard that hospitals were in short supply and he looked forward to seeing more medical resources to support Wuhan in the future.
家里储备的一点物资还能用上，但要是时间一长，李涛很担心是否还能撑过去。
A small stock of household goods can still be used, but if the time goes on, Li Tao is very worried about whether they will survive.
“近期就宅在家里等通知，等待来年春天，武汉的疫情能好转吧。
"The recent house in the home notice, waiting for the next spring, Wuhan can improve the epidemic bar.
”李涛说。
"said Li Tao.
对于这个担忧，湖北省省长王晓东在接受采访时表示，武汉市储备大米500万公斤，食用油4000吨，猪肉、牛肉超过1万吨以上，物资储备和市场供应是充足的。
In an interview, Hubei Governor Wang Xiaodong said that Wuhan city has a reserve of 5 million kilograms of rice, 4,000 tons of edible oil and more than 10,000 tons of pork and beef.
目前，云南、海南等地的农副产品在源源不断地往武汉调运，“保证市场的供应是有把握的”。
At present, Yunnan, Hainan and other places in the agricultural and sideline transport to Wuhan, "to ensure that the market supply is sure."
02“全家不出门”记者联系到吴晨的时候，他正忙着退机票。
02 "The whole family does not go out" when contacted by Wu Chen, he was busy refunds the ticket.
按照原计划他22日晚上11点10分要从武汉天河机场乘飞机前往成都过年。
He is scheduled to 22: 10 p.m. from Wuhan Tianhe Airport to Chengdu flight for the New Year.
中午12点半，他接到了购票APP的通知，航班取消。
At 12: 30 he was notified of the ticket purchase APP and the flight was cancelled.
吴晨家住在武汉市光谷区中心，离武汉旧城区大概15公里。
Wu Chen lived in the center of Guanggu District in Wuhan, about 15 kilometers from the old city of Wuhan.
听说武汉封城的消息后，他的第一反应也是出门囤粮。
When he heard the news that Wuhan had been closed, his first reaction was to go out and hoard grain.
在此之前，他已经几天没出过门。
He had not been out of the house for days.
“外卖也不敢点了，都吃自己烧的菜。
"Take out, too, and eat your own cooking.
”吴晨说。
"said Wu Chen.
他上午9点前往楼下的盒马生鲜超市囤粮，“啥都没了，新鲜蔬菜、水果和肉都没了，只剩速冻的产品和礼盒产品”。
He went downstairs at 9 a.m. to box Ma Shengshen supermarket hoard food, "nothing, fresh vegetables, fruits and meat, only frozen products and gift boxes products."
今年他没打算在武汉过年，家里什么也没买。
He didn't plan to spend the New Year in Wuhan this year.
由于封城的原因，航班取消，现在他只能买到一些速冻食品和盒装食品，例如泡面八宝粥之类。
Flights were canceled because of the city's blockade, and now he can only buy frozen foods and boxes of food, such as noodles or porridge.
“大超市没有涨价，就是被抢空了。
"Big supermarkets don't go up, or they get emptied.
估计明天的货都在网上预订完了。
It is estimated that all the goods are booked online tomorrow.
京东自营的东西，平时都是当天或第二天就送到，现在最快也要初三左右送到，大多数东西都是年后才有货。
Jingdong self-employed things, usually on the same day or the next day on the delivery, now the fastest around the third day of the delivery, most things are not available until after the year.
”吴晨说，现在自己和周边人就是都待在家里，尽量少出门，少和别人说话，尤其是不带口罩的人，多洗手，多通风。
Ms. Wu says people around her and herself are staying at home, spending as little time as possible outside the home, talking less to people, especially those without masks, and washing their hands and ventilating more.
受访者供图不过，与李涛和吴晨不同的是，陈心怡家现在还不担心粮食的事情。
However, unlike Li Tao and Wu Chen, Yi-jia Chen's family is not worried about food yet.
他们一家已经完全不出门了。
The family has been completely shut out.
“因为过年囤了年货，所以我们家不需要出门买菜。
"We don't need to go out to buy vegetables, since we have New Year's Eve, according to source.
而且沃尔玛等超市还可以送货，菜价也没有太大幅度的上涨，我妈说菜够吃一个月。
And Wal-Mart and other supermarkets can also deliver goods, vegetable prices have not increased too much, my mother said the food will last a month.
”陈心怡说。
'she said.
陈心怡是武汉的一名大三学生，家住武昌区。
Chen Xinyi is a senior student in Wuhan, living in Wuchang District.
她告诉南都记者，在听说封城的消息后，她和家人觉得是应该的，但第一反应还是怕，“心里发慌”。
She told Nandu that she and her family felt justified after hearing the news of the closure, but their first reaction was still fear, "panic."
陈心怡是从钟南山院士到达武汉才意识到事情的严重性，开始戴上了口罩。
Chen Xinyi from Zhong Nan Shan academician arrived in Wuhan just realized the seriousness of the matter, began to put on a mask.
也强制爸妈戴，劝说他们不串亲戚，用酒精消毒。
Also force parents to wear, persuade them not to visit relatives, disinfect with alcohol.
“但他们不怎么听，照常出行，直到公布有9人死亡，他们才觉得真的严重，开始自觉地戴口罩。
"But they didn't listen and went about their business as usual until it was announced that nine people had died before they felt really serious and started wearing masks voluntarily.
”陈心怡说。
'she said.
往年他们一大家会去爷爷奶奶和外婆家拜年，但今年也都取消了。
In the past year, they will visit their grandparents and grandma, but this year, they have also cancelled.
她所在的学校是2月17日开学，但目前还没有收到推迟开学的消息。
Her school, which opened on 17 February, has yet to receive any news of a delay in its opening.
03准备呆在家刷5部电影当武汉“封城”的消息传出后，麻酱还是有点意外。
03 Ready to stay at home to brush 5 films When news spread that Wuhan "closed the city," sesame sauce or a bit unexpected.
麻酱是一名漫画师，家在就住在华南海鲜市场附近，直线距离约3公里，平时家人也会去那买菜。
Sesame sauce is a comics division, the home in the south China seafood market nearby, straight line distance is about 3 kilometers, ordinary family will also go there to buy vegetables.
12月30日晚，“不明原因肺炎”的消息在网上传出后，麻酱赶紧告诉家人不让再去华南海鲜市场采购了。
On the night of Dec. 30, news of "unidentified pneumonia" spread on the Internet, Ma quickly told his family not to go back to the South China seafood market procurement.
麻酱比较“宅”，平时也很少出门。
Sesame sauce is more "mansion", usually also very few go out.
疫情出现后，除了出门采购物资，麻酱也基本都呆在家。
After the outbreak, in addition to out of the procurement of supplies, sesame paste is also basically at home.
这段时间，麻酱都在刷网剧和电影打发时间。
During this time, sesame sauce is in the brush net drama and the movie pass time.
从前天开始，麻酱刷上了《生化危机》，“有5部呢，苦中作乐嘛”。
The day before yesterday, the sauce was painted "The Crisis of Life," "There are five, bitter fun."
麻酱也在创作一部漫画，想表达下医务工作者对抗病毒的决心。
Sesame sauce is also working on a cartoon to show the antiviral determination of medical workers.
拟人化的病毒举着镰刀，说出“你觉得自己有胜算吗？”“我想试试。
The humanized virus holds up a sickle and says "Do you think you have a chance?" "I want to try.
”病毒的对面，全服武装的医生说道。
"Opposite the virus, the armed doctor said.
“主要是觉得这个台词说出来感觉很帅气。
"The main thing is that it feels good to say it.
”麻酱评价他画的小场景。
"The sauce evaluates the little scenes he draws.
目前，麻酱所在的小区还没出现新型冠状病毒肺炎患者，周围邻居朋友的态度也“还算稳定”，大多在讨论感染人数，和对病毒人传人能力的担忧。
So far, no new coronavirus pneumonia has appeared in the neighborhood where the sauce is located, and the attitude of the surrounding friends is "fairly stable," mostly discussing the number of infected people and concerns about the ability of the virus to pass from person to person.
麻酱告诉南都记者，在距离病源地这么近的地方，说不担心肯定不可能的，不过现在也只能尽量把能做的都做好了。
The mayonnaise tells Nantou reporters that it's impossible to say you're not worried so close to the source, but you can only do what you can now.
1月20日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山院士在接受媒体采访时表示，新型冠状病毒已经呈现了人传人特点。
The new coronavirus has taken on the characteristics of human-to-human transmission, academician Chung Nan-shan, chairman of the high-level panel of experts, told the media on January 20.
从那以后，麻酱每次出门都会带上口罩，家里也准备了三四十个一次性医用外科口罩、酒精喷雾和84消毒水。
Since then, the paste will wear a mask every time they go out, the family has prepared 30 or 40 disposable medical surgical masks, alcohol spray and 84 disinfectant water.
他告诉南都记者，现在从外面回来之后会用酒精洗手，每天一次用84拖地和擦桌子这一类的清洁。
He told Nandu reporters that he now washes his hands with alcohol after returning from the outside, cleaning with 84 mops a day and wiping the table.
封城的消息确定后，麻酱又出门买了点挂面。
After the news of the closure of the city was confirmed, sesame sauce went out to buy some noodles.
谈及武汉封城，他多多少少有点意外。
Speaking of Wuhan, he was more or less surprised.
“我本来觉得武汉作为春运最忙的城市之一，应该不会那么容易封城的，所以刚看到消息有点意外，不过早一点管控总是好的，我和周围的朋友对这个措施还是支持的。
"I thought Wuhan, as one of the busiest cities in the Spring Festival, should not be so easily closed, so it was a bit surprising to see the news.
”他说。
'he said.
麻酱家的年夜饭、朋友聚会和祭扫都取消了。
The mayonnaise family dinner, friends' parties and sweeps have all been cancelled.
“暂时还没有什么特别的安排，只能等官方确认疫情完全控制住了再做打算。
"There is nothing special going on until the authorities confirm that the outbreak is fully under control.
”04领导每日一问回不回家“鼠年”是宋璐的本命年，不过明天的除夕夜她得独自一人待在北京，这是她第一次在外过年。
The leader asked her once a day whether to return home for the "Year of the Rat" was Song Lu's life year, but tomorrow New Year's Eve she had to stay alone in Beijing, her first New Year's Eve.
宋璐是武汉新洲区人，原计划1月22日晚从北京飞回武汉。
Song Lu, from Wuhan Xinzhou area, had planned to fly back to Wuhan from Beijing on January 22.
在当天下午2点多，她还是取消了二十多天前订好的回家的机票。
She cancelled her plane ticket, booked more than twenty days ago, at 2: 00 p. m.
“至少安全一点。
"At least safe.
” 宋璐说。
'said Sung Lu.
宋璐告诉南都记者，她曾于12月31日，也就是“不明原因肺炎”的消息在网上传出后的第二天，回武汉参加姐姐的婚礼，1月2日返京。
Song Lu told Nandu that she had returned to Wuhan for her sister's wedding on December 31, the day after news of the "unknown pneumonia" spread online, and returned to Beijing on January 2.
“早就听闻过一些疫情，那个时候觉得没什么，大家都不担心。
"I've heard of some outbreaks a long time ago, and I don't think we were worried.
”直到确诊病例公布后宋璐才意识到事情的严重性，开始关注新闻。
Only when the case was confirmed did Song Lu realize the seriousness of the situation and began to pay attention to the news.
爸妈将回家的决定权交给了宋璐自己。
Her parents left the decision to go home to Song Lu herself.
“最初还挺想回家的，那时候没有口罩，同事听说我要回武汉，东凑西凑给了我5个。
"I wanted to go home at first. I didn't have a mask and my colleagues heard I was going back to Wuhan and scraped together five.
武汉的朋友劝我别回。
Wuhan friends advised me not to go back.
领导也开始每日一问，你要回武汉吗？北京的朋友们也劝我，都给我发最新消息。
The leadership also began to ask daily, you want to go back to Wuhan? Beijing's friends also advised me to send me the latest news.
然后我犹豫了。
Then I hesitated.
”宋璐说。
'said Sung Lu.
直至前天，她爸让她做出决定，购票软件也给她打了电话，说可以免费取消航班。
Until the day before yesterday, her father asked her to make a decision and the software called her, saying it would be free.
“我犹豫到下午2点，想到回去后可能出不来，回家也要加班，就算了，退了票。
"I hesitated until 2 p. m., and thought I might not be able to get out, so I had to work overtime to get home.
”宋璐说。
'said Sung Lu.
昨天凌晨“封城”消息一出，宋璐就看到了，她现在每天都在关注疫情的消息。
Early yesterday morning "closed the city" news, Song Lu saw that she is now watching the news of the epidemic every day.
“新的消息我基本都是第一时间知道的，担心家人的安全。
"I was basically aware of the new information for the first time and worried about the safety of my family.
”宋璐告诉南都记者。
Song Lu told Nan Duo reporters.
今天除夕夜，她打算在北京租的房子内“睡觉、看小说、看电影、做饭”。
On New Year's Eve, she plans to "sleep, read novels, watch movies and cook" in a rented house in Beijing.
当前有一件让她更头疼的事情，尽管家人出门戴上了口罩，但他们依然在准备着一大家子的年夜饭，好几个当地亲戚会来她家团圆。
One of her biggest headaches is that even though her family is wearing a mask, they are preparing a large family dinner and several local relatives are coming to her home for a reunion.
“他们曾在口头上承诺取消了，但还是决定过来，我阻止不了，好生气。
"They made a verbal promise to cancel, but decided to come. I couldn't stop it. I was angry.
”宋璐说，她还在跟家人争取。
Song Lu said she was still fighting with her family.
05她和室友决定不回家了与宋璐不同的是，小魏在户籍上属于武汉城外人。
She and her roommate decided not to go home. Unlike Song Lu, Xiao Wei belongs to people outside Wuhan.
为避免伤害家人，她最终选择留在了武汉城内。
To avoid harming her family, she ended up staying in Wuhan.
“从新闻开始报道人传人的时候，我就决定不回家了。
"I've decided not to go home since the news started reporting people to people.
”90后小魏告诉南都记者。
Wei told Nan Duo after 90.
她的老家在湖北荆州，目前在武汉市汉阳区居住，在一家公司做运营。
Her hometown is in Jingzhou, Hubei, and now lives in Hanyang District of Wuhan City, where she works for a company.
小魏说，之前媒体一直说新型肺炎没有人传人，也被控制住了，她以为是普通的疫情，本打算回家过年的。
Wei said the media has been saying that the new pneumonia no one, and was under control, she thought it was a normal outbreak of the disease, intended to go home for the New Year.
但后来小魏意识到事情可能不简单，但也没有想“逃离武汉”。
But then Wei realized that things might not be easy, but did not want to "escape Wuhan."
小魏认为，要“逃离武汉”的那些人根本就没有意识到，家里亲戚朋友总有抵抗力差的，他们急急忙忙跑了，以为自己逃脱了，其实是给更多人带来了风险，“那伤害的可是自己的亲人朋友”。
Wei argues that those who want to "flee Wuhan" simply do not realize that relatives and friends always have poor resistance. They run off in a hurry, thinking that they have escaped, and that it is really a danger to more people.
小魏和远在荆州的家人说了想法，家人最终同意她留武汉过年。
Wei and far in Jingzhou family said the idea, the family finally agreed to her stay in Wuhan for the New Year.
同时，她还把想回家过年的室友也劝住留下来。
She also persuaded her roommates who wanted to come home for the New Year to stay.
室友老家在武汉东部的阳逻，其同事已有被隔离的。
His roommate, who was home to Yang Li in eastern Wuhan, was quarantined.
“都不回去啦！团圆什么时候都行，但是现在不行啊。
"Not at all! Anytime I can get together, but not now.
”她说。
'she said.
这不是她第一次在武汉过年。
This is not her first New Year in Wuhan.
谈到现在的感受，她说，武汉这边现在没有什么过年的感觉，基本上身边的人都是在讨论疫情。
Speaking of the feelings now, she said, Wuhan side of there is no feeling of the New Year, basically around the people are discussing the epidemic.
她告诉南都记者，自己除了在家里待着，什么也不能做。
She told Nandu that she could do nothing but stay at home.
而且身在疫区，每天看到的都是各种恐慌的报道，要说不怕是假的，看到周围有人一个一个进医院，小区一个一个被封锁，第一次有一种身处漩涡中心的感觉。
And in the epidemic area, every day to see a variety of panic reports, say fear is false, to see people around one by one into the hospital, block by block, the first time there is a sense of being in the whirlpool center.
小魏表示，自己每天都能听到好几次救护车的声音，身边朋友有几个发烧的，去医院就是排队六七个小时，几百个病人只有四五个医生，还被告知回家隔离，并没有什么有效治疗方式。
Wei said he heard ambulances several times a day, with friends with fever, queuing for six or seven hours to go to the hospital, hundreds of patients with only four or five doctors, and told to go home in isolation with no effective treatment.
06“预感事情有变化，提早回家”陈威是武汉一家初创公司的负责人。
"Premonition things have changed, come home early," Chen Wei is the head of a Wuhan start-up company.
家在浙江的他，原本计划1月23日开车从武汉经高速公路赴老家过年。
Home in Zhejiang, he had planned to drive from Wuhan to his hometown on January 23 to celebrate the New Year.
1月20日开始，疫情防控措施似乎所有升级，陈威临时决定提前两天，1月21日就出发。
From January 20 onwards, the disease control measures seem to have all escalated, Chen Wei tentatively decided to two days ahead of schedule, January 21 departure.
到家的第二天，武汉市政府宣布交通封城。
The day after arriving home, Wuhan city government announced traffic closure.
身为公司负责人，在这次疫情一开始，陈威就开始有所准备。
As head of the company, Chen Wei began to prepare for the outbreak from the beginning.
1月3日，武汉市第二次通报，感染新型冠状病毒的患者增至44例。
On January 3, Wuhan City for the second time reported that the number of patients infected with the new coronavirus increased to 44.
看到这个消息，陈威马上在网上买了免费洗手液，让公司员工进出必须洗手。
See this news, Chen Wei immediately bought free hand sanitizer on the Internet, let the company employees to wash their hands when entering or leaving.
此前，“双12”当天，他也在网上提前买了两盒100个口罩，发放给公司员工。
Previously, "double 12" that day, he also bought two boxes of 100 masks online in advance, distributed to the company staff.
当时的价格是2盒口罩一共25元。
The price was 2 boxes of masks at 25 yuan.
“想到买口罩纯属巧合，看到打折就买了，当时没有任何消息。
"It was a coincidence that I bought the mask at a discount. There was no news at the time.
”陈威说。
"said Chen Wei.
此外，办公室的同事们决定，开始执行上班前测量体温的制度。
In addition, colleagues at the office decided to begin implementing a pre-work temperature measurement system.
1月20日，事情似乎有所变化，随着通报病例上升，舆论开始重视起来，防控措施也升级了。
On 20 January, things appeared to change, and as the number of notified cases increased, public opinion began to focus and control measures were upgraded.
“我发现不太对劲，怕自己可能走不了，就想早点走吧，把工作带回老家完成”。
"I found something wrong, afraid I might not be able to go, just want to leave early, take work home to complete."
于是，他提前了两天，于21日就出了武汉城，没想到“交通封城”的消息突然就来了。
So, he two days ahead of schedule, on the 21st out of Wuhan City, did not expect the "traffic closure" news suddenly came.
由于走得早，他的宠物猫也跟他一起回了老家。
As he left early, his pet cat returned home with him.
陈威告诉南都记者，他在武汉的办公地点和住址都不在华南海鲜市场所在的江汉区，甚至隔着长江。
Chen told Nandu that his office and address in Wuhan were not in the Jianghan area, where the South China seafood market is located, or even across the Yangtze River.
他平时出门都是自己开车，不坐公共交通，自己也是住家和办公室两点一线的生活。
He usually drives his own car, does not take public transport, and is a line between home and office life.
尽管回到老家，“很想很想约好朋友见个面，可是我不能，就算不说，大家心里也是怕的吧”。
Although back home, "would like to very much like to meet a good friend, but I can not, if not, everyone is afraid of it.
陈威只好自己在家先待几天。
Chen Wei had to stay at home for a few days.
（文中署名均为化名）南方都市报（nddaily）原创报道南都记者 吴单 宋承翰 吴斌 蒋小天 胡明山。
The South Metropolis Daily originally reported on Wu Dan Sung Han Wu Bin Jiang Xiaotian Hu Mingshan, the southern metropolis newspaper.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情风暴眼中的武汉居民生活 | 特写。
Wuhan residents seen in the eye of the storm.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情风暴眼中的武汉居民生活 | 特写";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭……除夕至，武汉人今年的春节注定要不一样了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; temporary suspension of bus, subway, ferry, and long-distance passenger service; and temporary closure of Han passages at airports and railway stations.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
