最新研究发现新冠病毒和穿山甲无直接关系，多地监狱爆发聚集性传染，以及其他 34 条疫情新闻。
The latest study found no direct link between the new crown virus and pangolin, a spate of prison infections, and 34 other news items.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
所有的鱼现在同步在 allthefishnews.wordpress.com 更新并可通过邮件订阅。
All fish are now synchronized at allthefishnews. wordpress.com and can be subscribed to by mail.
你可以复制上方链接浏览器打开获取订阅链接。
You can copy the above link browser to open for a subscription link.
疫情发展1.湖北卫健委：不允许核减已确诊病例。
Development of epidemic situation 1. Hubei Wei Jian committee: Not allowed to reduce the confirmed cases.
2月21日举行的湖北疫情防控新闻发布会上，湖北卫健委副主任涂远超表示，明确要求对已确诊的病例不允许核减，已核减的必须全部加回。
At a press conference on the prevention and control of the disease in Hubei province on February 21, Hubei vice-director of the health committee Yu Yuan-chao said there was a clear demand for confirmed cases not to be allowed to reduce, the reduced must be added back.
此前，由于统计标准的一再变化，黄石、天门等多地出现核减确诊病例的情况，导致新增数出现负增长，湖北省以及武汉市的新增确诊病例数发生巨大波动。
Prior to this, due to repeated changes in statistical standards, Yellowstone, Tianmen, and other confirmed cases of nuclear reduction, resulting in negative growth, Hubei Province and Wuhan City of the number of new confirmed cases of great fluctuations.
（图片来源：丁香医生）2.多地监狱爆发聚集性传染，鄂鲁浙三省监狱一日通报 514 例。
(Photo: Dr. Lilac) 2.Aggregate infection broke out in many prisons, and 514 cases were reported in the prison of three provinces of Zhejiang Province.
湖北、山东、浙江 5 所监狱发生聚集性新冠肺炎疫情，均为输入性案例。
Five prisons in Hubei, Shandong and Zhejiang provinces experienced cases of conglomerate pneumonia, which were imported cases.
其中截止 21 日，湖北武汉女子监狱确诊 230 例；湖北省汉津监狱确诊 41 例；山东省任城监狱确诊 207 例；浙江省十里丰监狱确诊 34 例，由一名隐瞒旅行史的民警输入。
As of July 21, 230 cases had been diagnosed in Wuhan Women's Prison in Hubei Province, 41 cases in Hanjin Prison in Hubei Province, 207 cases in Yancheng Prison in Shandong Province and 34 cases in Xilifeng Prison in Zhejiang Province.
包括山东司法厅长在内，11名官员被免职。
Eleven officials, including the Shandong Ministry of Justice, were dismissed.
3.韩国累计确诊新冠肺炎 346 例。
3. Cumulatively 346 cases of New Crown Pneumonia were diagnosed in Korea.
截至 2 月 22 日上午 9 时，韩国感染新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）的患者累计 346 例，其中 2 人死亡。
As of 9: 00 am on February 22, 346 cases of infection with the new coronavirus (COVID-19) in South Korea have accumulated, including two deaths.
东南部的大邱受新型冠状病毒疫情冲击最大，出现大规模集体感染，其中一名 61 岁的患者近日曾参加新天地大邱教会活动，目前该教会已有 43 人确诊，约 400 人出现症状，9000 名成员被告知需自我隔离。
Daegu in the southeast has been hit hardest by the new coronavirus outbreak, with a massive mass infection. A 61-year-old patient recently joined the Taegu Church in Xintiandi, where 43 people have been diagnosed, about 400 have developed symptoms and 9,000 have been told to isolate themselves.
首尔市政府宣布，将禁止市内三处主要广场举行集会并关闭多处宗教设施；韩国军中 3 名士兵确诊病例，所有军事基地都处于紧急封闭状态，并上调危险等级。
The Seoul city government announced a ban on rallies and the closure of several religious facilities in three of the city's main squares; three South Korean army soldiers confirmed the case, and all military bases were placed under emergency closure and upgraded to danger levels.
中央应急处置本部副本部长金刚立 2 月 22 日上午在记者会上表示，疫情尚未进入全境扩散阶段，政府决定继续将新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）的预警级别维持在第二高的“警惕”级别。
The government has decided to maintain the alert level of the new coronavirus (COVID-19) at the second-highest "alert" level, said Kim Gang-li, deputy minister of the Central Emergency Response Agency, at a news conference on the morning of February 22.
4.新冠病毒在中东蔓延，世卫警告「机会之窗正变小」。
4. The New Crown Virus is spreading in the Middle East, and WHO warns that "the window of opportunity is closing."
2 月 21 日，阿联酋、伊朗、以色列和黎巴嫩皆出现新增病例。
On 21 February, there were new cases in the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Israel and Lebanon.
其中，伊朗新增 13 例分散在库姆（7 例）、德黑兰（4 例）和吉兰（2 例）。
Of these, 13 new cases were reported in Qom (7 cases), Tehran (4 cases) and Gilan (2 cases).
据财新网报道，伊朗卫生部官员 Minou Mohrez 在 2 月 21 日称，如今疫情已扩散到伊朗的多个城市，包括首都德黑兰，“可能来自在库姆工作并曾前往中国旅行的中国工人”。
Minou Mohrez, an Iranian health ministry official, said on February 21 that the outbreak had spread to cities in Iran, including Tehran, "possibly from Chinese workers who worked in Qom and traveled to China."
据称，一家中国企业正在库姆当地建造一座太阳能发电厂。
A Chinese company is said to be building a local solar power plant in Qom.
截止 2 月 21 日，中东地区阿联酋（11例）、埃及（1例）、伊朗（18例、4例死亡）、以色列（1例）、黎巴嫩（1例）共5个国家通报 32 例。
As at 21 February, 32 notifications had been received from five countries in the Middle East: the United Arab Emirates (11 cases), Egypt (1 case), Iran (18 cases, 4 deaths), Israel (1 case) and Lebanon (1 case).
世卫组织谭德塞警告「机会之窗正变小，因此我们需要在它完全关闭之前迅速采取行动……」5.世卫组织专家团于 2 月 22 日赴武汉。
"The window of opportunity is closing, so we need to act quickly before it closes completely," WHO expert mission to Wuhan Feb. 22, 2006.
欧洲中部时间 2 月 21 日下午，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞新冠疫情例行记者会上宣布，在于北京、广东和四川三地进行考察工作之后，世卫与中方的联合约 20 名专家的考察组，将于 2 月 22 日进入湖北省武汉市继续工作。
In the afternoon of Feb. 21, World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Theresa Tam announced at a regular press conference that after three visits to Beijing, Guangdong and Sichuan, a research team of about 20 experts from WHO and China will enter Wuhan, Hubei Province, on February 22 to continue their work.
在此之前，中方和世卫只公布了这一专家团将在北京、四川和广东考察的消息。
Before then, China and WHO had only announced that the expert mission would visit Beijing, Sichuan and Guangdong.
他们于上个周末抵达中国，并从 2 月 17 日起开始正式工作。
They arrived in China last weekend and began official work on February 17th.
这批专家的学术领域包括流行病学、病毒学、临床管理、疫情控制和公共卫生领域等。
The group's academic fields include epidemiology, virology, clinical management, epidemic control and public health.
他们的主要工作是研究病毒的传播动力学、疫情的严重程度、中国采取的应对策略，和已实行措施的效果等。
Their main task is to study the transmission dynamics of the virus, the severity of the epidemic, the countermeasures taken by China, and the effects of measures taken.
专家组的目标，则是迅速制订在中国和全球各地应对新冠疫情的后续步骤。
The Group aims to rapidly develop follow-up steps to address the new crown epidemic in China and around the globe.
6.武汉市红十字会医院一医生因感染新冠肺炎离世。
6.A doctor at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital died of pneumonia.
据武汉红十字会医院微信公众号消息，2 月 21 日，武汉红十字会医院发布公告，证实该院普外科医生肖俊，在抗击疫情一线感染新冠肺炎，于 2020 年 2 月 8 日 18 时 13 分在武汉市金银潭医院去世。
Wuhan Red Cross Hospital issued a notice on February 21 confirming that Xiao Jun, a general practitioner of the Wuhan Red Cross Society, had died on February 8, 2020 at 18: 13 am at the Jiantan Hospital in Wuhan, China's first-line infectious disease, according to the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital Weixin Public News.
7.北京一居家隔离女子私自复工，66 人密切接触。
7. A woman in a home in Beijing has returned to work privately with 66 people in close contact.
北京疾控中心副主任庞星火介绍一例案例，2 月 13 日，中心接诊 A 某某，确诊新冠肺炎，并确定其女儿 B 是密切接触者，但因为 B 某在哺乳期，让她在家隔离。
Pong Xing-hua, deputy director of the Beijing CDC, described a case in which the center was admitted to A on February 13 to confirm that her daughter B was in close contact with her, but because B was breast-feeding, she was kept in isolation.
但 B 某之后隐瞒了咽痛的症状，直到 2 月 19 日确诊新冠肺炎后，疾控中心开始排查密切接触者。
But B later concealed symptoms of sore throat, until February 19 after the diagnosis of pneumonia, the CDC began to search for close contacts.
调查发现，B 某已经复工，最后划定 66 名人员为密切接触者，另外还有 200 多名一般接触者，在家隔离。
The investigation found that B had resumed work, resulting in the identification of 66 personnel as close contacts, in addition to more than 200 general contacts, isolated at home.
8.黑龙江也是疫情重灾区。
The Heilongjiang River is also a disaster area.
距武汉较远的黑龙江“意外”地成为疫情重灾区之一，确诊病例数逼近 500，现有重症病例数仅次于湖北，死亡人数位居全国第三，死亡率与湖北（除武汉）不相上下；当地疫情管控措施滞后，医疗救治资源紧张且失衡。
Far away from Wuhan, Heilongjiang has become one of the hardest hit areas, with nearly 500 confirmed cases. It now has the second highest number of serious cases after Hubei, the third highest death toll in the country, and the death rate is comparable to that in Hubei (Wuhan excepted).
9.33 位城乡社区工作者殉职。
9.33 urban and rural community workers died in the line of duty.
2 月 21 日，「国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会」，民政部基层政权建设和社区治理司司长陈越良通报，“截至 2 月 20 日，全国已有 33 位城乡社区工作者在疫情防控期因公殉职。
"As of February 20, 33 urban and rural community workers nationwide had died in the line of duty during the epidemic prevention and control period," Chen Yuliang, director of the grassroots regime-building and community governance department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, told the press conference.
”10.神农架林区新增 1 例确诊，潜伏期长达 27 天。
10. A new case was diagnosed in Shennongchang forest area with latency of up to 27 days.
据《湖北日报》报道，患者于 1 月 24 日乘私家车从鄂州华容区返回神农架松柏镇，2月 19 日晚出现发热(体温 37.5℃)伴乏力等症状，2 月 20 日到林区人民医院就诊。
According to Hubei Daily, the patient returned to Shennongjia pine and cypress town on January 24 by private car. Febrile (37.5 degrees Celsius) accompanied by fatigue appeared on the night of Feb. 19 and went to the forest people's hospital on February 20, Hubei Daily reported.
该患者一家在鄂州期间住在其妹妹家中，其妹妹于 1 月 25 日发病，2 月 2 日在鄂州市确诊为新冠肺炎病例。
The family lived in her sister's home in Huizhou Province, where she developed symptoms on January 25 and was diagnosed with Newcrown Pneumonia on February 2 in Huzhou.
而神农架林区从 2 月3 日后连续 16 天无新增确诊。
No new diagnosis was reported in Shennongjia forest area for 16 consecutive days after February 3.
如对该患者从鄂州返回至 2 月 19 日发病计算，潜伏期长达 27 天。
If the patient returned from Huizhou to February 19, the incubation period was as long as 27 days.
未来研判美疾控中心：新型冠状病毒或全美蔓延。
Future Judgment of the U. S. CDC: New Coronavirus or National Spreading.
当地时间 2 月 21 日，美国疾病控制与预防中心（CDC）发出警告称，#新型冠状病毒#可能在美国蔓延，美国卫生部门官员正在为可能到来的新冠肺炎大流行做准备。
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) warned on Feb. 21 that a new coronavirus # could spread in the United States as health officials prepare for a possible new coronary pneumonia pandemic.
截至 21 日，美国共发现 34 例新冠肺炎确诊病例，其中 18 例来自“钻石公主号”邮轮。
Up to the 21st, 34 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia have been found in the United States, 18 of them from the Princess Diamond cruise ship.
美国疾控中心国家免疫与呼吸系统疾病中心主任梅森尼尔（Nancy Messonnier）表示：“目前尚未发现新冠病毒在美国社区传播，但是最终可能发生这种情况。
Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said: "There has been no new cases of transmission in the US community, but that could eventually happen.
我们的目标是继续减缓新冠病毒在美国的传播速度，以赢得更多时间，为可能到来的持续传播做准备。
Our goal is to continue slowing the spread of the new Crown virus in the United States in order to buy more time to prepare for possible continued transmission.
”城市防控1.武汉计划再建 19 家方舱医院。
Wuhan is planning to build another 19 cabin hospitals.
武汉市委常委、市政府常务副市长胡亚波 2 月 21 日表示，武汉计划再建设 19 家方舱医院，到 2 月 25 日，武汉市储备的方舱医院床位要达到 3 万张。
Wuhan city's standing committee and deputy mayor Hu Yapo said Feb. 21, Wuhan plans to build another 19 cabin hospitals, by February 25, Wuhan City Reserve of the hospital to 30, 000 beds.
据其介绍，目前武汉已经有13家方舱医院开舱，可提供救治的床位达到了 13348 张，已使用 9313 张。
Wuhan has opened 13 cabin hospitals, offering 13,348 beds and 9,313 beds, according to the ministry.
72 支援助武汉医疗队进入方舱医院。
72 medical teams to help Wuhan enter the cabin hospital.
2.武汉——新冠肺炎出院患者需统一康复隔离 14 天。
Wuhan - People discharged from hospital with Xinguan Pneumonia should be unified and isolated for 14 days.
2 月 22 日，武汉发布「关于对新冠肺炎治愈出院患者实施康复隔离的通告」，新冠肺炎出院患者“应到指定场所统一实施为期 14 天免费的康复隔离和医学观察。
On Feb. 22, Wuhan issued a notice on the rehabilitation isolation of patients discharged from hospital with Xinguan Pneumonia. Patients discharged from the hospital with Xinguan Pneumonia should be given free rehabilitation quarantine and medical observation for 14 days at designated places.
观察期满，身体状况符合条件的解除隔离”。
At the end of the observation period, the eligible condition of isolation. "
此前，在成都的一则案例显示，出院 10 天后核酸检测仍呈阳性。
Earlier, a case in Chengdu showed that nucleic acid tests were still positive 10 days after discharge.
3.湖北医疗物资供需矛盾突出。
The contradiction between supply and demand of medical materials is prominent.
湖北省召开新冠肺炎疫情防控新闻发布会，湖北省副省长曹广晶介绍，目前，湖北省医疗物资供需依然比较紧张，为了应对这种局面，湖北省出台文件，通过“三个一批”举措扩大医疗物资供应。
Cao Guangjing, vice-governor of Hubei province, said the supply and demand for medical supplies in Hubei province remained tight. To deal with the situation, Hubei Province issued a document expanding the supply of medical materials through the "three batches" initiative.
曹广晶介绍，具体来说包括“推动一批”，也就是推动有能力的企业扩大生产、增加产能；“转产一批”，即相关企业在满足产品质量要求下，可以进行转产，比如原来生产民用口罩的企业改为生产医用口罩，以前生产服装的企业转产为生产医用防护服。
Cao Guang-jing said, specifically including "push a batch," that is, to promote the ability of enterprises to expand production and increase production capacity, "that is, the relevant enterprises can meet product quality requirements, such as the former production of civilian mask enterprises to produce medical masks, the former production of clothing enterprises into the production of medical protective clothing.
此外，湖北省还要“新建一批”，即企业愿意投入资金新建医疗物资工厂。
In addition, Hubei Province will "build a batch of new", that is, enterprises are willing to invest funds to build new medical materials factories.
4.湖北——新增 4500 位医护人员，三峡邮轮提供武汉医护人员住宿。
4. Hubei - 4500 new medical staff, Three Gorges cruise ship to provide accommodation for Wuhan medical personnel.
据「人民网」报道，2 月 20 日—21 日，湖北从全国 15 余省（自治区、直辖市）接收近 4500 名医护人员。
From February 20 to 21, Hubei received nearly 4,500 medical personnel from more than 15 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the central government, the People's Daily reported.
另一方面，为了应对武汉紧张的酒店住宿，交通运输部门调度 7 艘「三峡游轮」为医护人员提供住宿，一共可提供 1469 个床位。
On the other hand, in response to the tense hotel accommodation in Wuhan, the Transport Department has deployed seven "Three Gorges Cruises" to provide accommodation for medical staff with a total capacity of 1,469 beds.
其中，“蓝鲸”游轮已经停靠江汉区王家巷码头。
Among them, the "Blue Whale" cruise ship has docked at Wang Jia Lane Wharf.
5.广州餐饮业恢复堂食，部分县和市区不得拼桌。
Guangzhou restaurant industry to restore the canteen, some counties and urban areas can not put together table.
2 月 21 日，继广东省发布餐饮业复工的相关指引后，广州市防控新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情工作指挥部办公室最新发布《广州市推动餐饮业有序复工复产指引（试行）》，明确南沙、从化、增城 3 个区为Ⅳ级防控区，其余 8 区均为Ⅲ级防控区。
February 21, following the Guangdong Province issued guidelines on the resumption of catering industry, Guangzhou City to prevent and control the new coronavirus pneumonia work command office recently issued "Guangzhou City to promote orderly resumption of food and beverage industry (trial)," the three districts of Nansha, Conghua, Zengcheng as Area IV, and the remaining eight as Class III control areas.
分级为Ⅲ级防控区的县（市、区），餐饮经营单位限制堂食服务，限制措施包括不得拼桌；大堂餐桌实际使用数量不超过平时的 50%，不同餐桌之间距离不小于 1 米；长条桌同排顾客隔位相坐，对面错位相坐；圆桌顾客隔位相坐，面对面距离不少于 1 米等。
County (city, district) classified as PASSAGE III control area. Catering business units restrict the parlour service. Limitations include not putting together tables; actual use of tables in the lobby does not exceed 50 per cent of the usual distance between tables of not less than 1 m; long tables sit side by side with customers opposite each other; round tables sit side by side, face-to-face distance not less than 1 m.
6.杭州零售药店恢复向市民销售治疗发烧、咳嗽药品。
6. Retail drugstores in Hangzhou resumed the sale of medicines to treat fever and cough.
@杭州市市场监督管理局 发布关于恢复全市所有零售药店销售治疗发烧、咳嗽药品的通知。
The Hangzhou Municipal Market Supervision Authority has issued a notice on the resumption of the sale of fever and cough medicines in all retail pharmacies across the city.
“各区县（市）市场监督管理局（钱塘新区、景区分局）、医疗保障（分）局，各零售药店：鉴于当前新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控形势变化，根据杭州市新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控指挥部要求，决定自 2020 年 2 月 22 日起，在全市所有零售药店恢复向市民销售治疗发热、咳嗽的药品。
"In view of the current situation of prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia, it has been decided to resume the sale of medicine for fever and cough to the public at all retail pharmacies throughout the city as of February 22, 2020, in accordance with the requirements of the new-style coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control command.
此前禁止销售此类药品的相关通知停止执行。
Previous notifications prohibiting the sale of such drugs have been suspended.
各零售药店要引导有发热等症状的人员，就近到设有发热门诊的医疗机构就诊。
Each retail pharmacy should guide people with fever and other symptoms to the nearest medical institution with a fever clinic.
”7.香港将启动“超级电脑”追踪疫情。
"7. Hong Kong will launch a" supercomputer "to track the outbreak.
2 月 21 日，香港卫生防护中心称，因为新冠患者的病例增多且情况复杂，已经请求警方启动重大事件调查及灾难支持系统，即俗称的“超级电脑”系统，协助追踪患者的活动踪迹和密切接触者。
On February 21, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of Hong Kong said the Police had been requested to activate the Major Incident Investigation and Disaster Support System, commonly known as the Supercomputer System, to help track the movement of patients and their close contacts.
“超级电脑”系统主要用作数据管理和分析，以支持刑事案件调查工作在 2016 年推出的第三代重大事件调查及灾难支持系统中，已引进“传染病感染追踪”功能，可协助卫生防护中心对传染病进行追踪分析。
The "Super Computer" system is mainly used for data management and analysis to support the investigation of criminal cases. In the third generation of Major Incident Investigation and Disaster Support System, launched in 2016, the "Infection Tracking" function has been introduced to assist CHP in tracking and analysing infectious diseases.
“超级电脑”系统还能分析不同确诊病例之间是否存在关联。
The Supercomputer system can also analyze whether there is a link between different confirmed cases.
8.疫情中风险地区应允许健康防护的快递员进入小区。
8. Health protection couriers should be allowed into communities in areas at risk of epidemics.
交通运输部政策研究室主任吴春耕表示，要保证末端投递，对疫情低风险地区恢复全面正常投递秩序，对中风险地区，在加强快递员健康防护基础上，允许快递员进入小区、社区、物业管理区域，在高风险的区域应该为邮递员、快递员取件投递，提供一些相关的便利措施。
Wu Chunplowing, director of the Policy Research Office of the Ministry of Transport, said that it was necessary to ensure terminal delivery and restore full and normal delivery order to low-risk areas, and to strengthen the health protection of couriers to allow couriers to enter small areas, communities and property management areas.
9.四川广元扎堆喝茶被叫停。
9. Sichuan Guanyuan Tangdui tea was stopped.
2 月 21 日，四川广元。
21 February, Guangyuan, Sichuan Province.
不少人出门晒太阳，在利州广场，市民扎堆喝坝坝茶，一市民拍视频称“人山人海，全是脑壳”。
Many people out in the sun, in Lizhou Square, the public to drink dam tea, a citizen took a video said "people mountain sea, all brain shell."
针对人员聚集，广元新冠肺炎应急指挥部提醒：现仍处于 1 级响应时期，市民要自觉远离人群聚集地，摊位间距应在 1.5 米以上，严重违规的将予以处罚。
In response to the gathering, the Guangyuan New Crown Pneumonia Emergency Command warned that the public is still in a level 1 response period. People should voluntarily move away from the crowd. Booth spacing should be more than 1.5 meters.
10.西安未发生疫情小区，取消限制外出采购规定。
10. Xi'an did not have an epidemic area, lifting the restrictions on travel procurement.
西安市莲湖区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通知称，莲湖区属于中风险地区，应坚持“实施‘外防输入、内防扩散’策略”，“尽快有序恢复生产生活秩序”，结合莲湖区疫情防控工作实际，现将社区疫情防控有关事项通知如下：一、所有的小区保持出入登记、测温、消杀等基本的管控措施不变；居民一律不串门、不聚集、不打牌，提倡减少外出，外出必须戴口罩。
The Lianhu District is a medium-risk area and should adhere to the strategy of implementing the strategy of preventing and controlling external and internal proliferation and restoring the order of production and living as soon as possible.In view of the actual situation of the disease prevention and control in the Lianhu District, residents should not visit, gather or play cards, advocate less travel and wear masks.
二、对仍需管控的有确诊、疑似病例及密切接触者所居住的小区，坚持实施之前最严格的管控措施，精细化管理、精准化管理。
Secondly, strict control measures, fine management and precise management should be carried out for those small areas with confirmed or suspected cases and close contacts that still need to be controlled.
三、对未发生疫情且没有密切接触者的小区，取消每户每 2 天一次外出采购物资的规定，有序恢复正常生产生活秩序。
To abolish the rule that every household should go out every two days to purchase goods in small areas where there is no epidemic and no close contacts, so as to order the normal order of production and life.
11.东京要求取消 500 人以上活动。
11. Tokyo called for the cancellation of more than 500 people.
东京都政府 21 日表示，从 2 月 22 日起到 3 月 15 日内，中止或延期超过 500 人的大规模活动。
The Tokyo metropolitan government said Tuesday that it suspended or extended large-scale activities involving more than 500 people from February 22 to March 15.
为防止飞沫传染，较少人参与的聚餐活动也希望延期或终止。
Smaller parties are also expected to be postponed or terminated to prevent the spread of foamy infection.
三周后再根据疫情决定是否延长实施这一决定。
Three weeks later, the decision to extend the decision is based on the outbreak.
医疗方案1.最新研究发现新冠病毒和穿山甲无直接关系。
New research has found no direct link between the new crown virus and pangolin.
2 月 20 日，华南农业大学沈永义、肖立华研究团队，以及广东省生物资源应用研究所副所长陈金平团队均在预印本网站 bioRxiv 上发表了有关穿山甲冠状病毒的论文。
On February 20, the team of Yongyi Shen, Xiao Lihua of South China Agricultural University and Chen Jinping, deputy director of Guangdong Province Institute of Applied Research in Biological Resources, published a paper on the coronavirus on the pre-printed website bioRxiv.
两个团队均发现，穿山甲病毒不太可能与新冠病毒直接相关，但两种病毒之间可能还有另一个中间宿主参与了病毒重组。
Both teams found that pangolin virus was unlikely to be directly associated with the new crown virus, but another intermediate host may have been involved in the virus recombination.
研究者认为，某些穿山甲冠状病毒 S 蛋白的受体结合域几乎与新冠病毒的完全相同，因而新冠病毒可能起源于穿山甲冠状病毒与来自蝙蝠的RaTG13 病毒的重组。
The researchers believe that some coronavirus S protein receptor binding domain is almost identical to that of the new crown virus, so the new crown virus may have originated from the recombination of Pangolin coronavirus and RTG13 virus from bats.
管轶团队 2 月 19 日的研究则发现，穿山甲样本中的冠状病毒与新冠病毒相似度达97%。
Guan Yi's team found on February 19th that the coronavirus in the pangolin sample was 97% similar to the new coronavirus.
但他们也不能排除另一种可能：穿山甲独立于蝙蝠或其他动物宿主，而感染了和新冠病毒相似的病毒。
But they cannot rule out another possibility: pangolins are independent of bats or other animal hosts and are infected with viruses similar to the new crown virus.
2.新研究疑华南海鲜市场非最初来源新冠病毒在 12 月初已有人际传播。
New research has suggested that the non-original source of the South China seafood market, the New Crown virus, had spread from person to person in early December.
2月21 日，中国科学院西双版纳热带植物园、华南农大、中国脑科学研究所等机构的研究人员发表预印文章提出，武汉华南海鲜市场的新冠病毒是从其它地方传入，拥挤的市场促进病毒在 2019 年 12 月上旬传播到整个城市。
On February 21, researchers at the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, NanNong University in south China and the China Institute of Brain Science published a pre-printed article suggesting that the new crown virus from Wuhan South China seafood market had been introduced from other places and that the crowded market had facilitated its spread to the whole city in early December 2019.
这篇论文还指出，新冠病毒在 2 月 12 日之前发生过 2 次明显的种群扩张，早期扩张发生在 12 月 8 日，近期扩张在 1 月 6 日。
The paper also noted that the new crown virus had had two distinct population expansion before February 12, with early expansion on December 8 and recent expansion on January 6.
论文收集了截止 2 月 12 日全世界共享到 GISAID EpiFluTM 数据库的病毒数据，包括四大洲 12 个国家的 93 个新冠病毒样本。
The paper collected virus data from the GISAID Epi FluTM database shared worldwide as of 12 February, including 93 new crown virus samples from 12 countries on four continents.
发表在中国科学院科技论文预印发布平台 ChinaXiv，未经同行评价。
Published in the Chinese Academy of Sciences pre-printed publishing platform for scientific papers ChinaXiv, not peer-reviewed.
3.钟南山团队从尿液中分离出病毒。
Zhong Nan Shan team isolated the virus from urine.
据广州日报消息，2 月 22 日上午 10 时，广州市举行广州市科技战“疫”新闻，通气会通报广州市防控新冠肺炎科研攻关工作的措施、成效等情况。
At 10: 00 a.m. on Feb. 22, Guangzhou city will hold a scientific and technological battle "epidemic" news, ventilation will inform Guangzhou City to prevent and control the new crown pneumonia research measures, effectiveness and so on.
在开展病毒溯源研究方面，钟南山院士团队专家、呼吸疾病国家重点实验室副主任赵金存教授团队联合广州海关首次从广州本地被感染的病例样本中成功分离出新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）毒株，为进一步开展疫苗和药物研究打下基础。
Professor Zhao Jinzhou, a team of experts from the Zhong Nan Shan Academician Team and Deputy Director of the National Key Laboratory for Respiratory Diseases, jointly with Guangzhou Customs for the first time successfully isolated a new coronavirus (COVID-19) virulent strain from Guangzhou local infected cases, laying the foundation for further vaccine and drug research.
其后，该团队又从新冠肺炎患者的粪便标本中分离出新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）。
The team then isolated a new coronavirus (COVID-19) from fecal samples from patients with Newcomial Pneumonia.
近日，他们再次从新冠肺炎患者尿液中分离出新冠病毒，这对公共卫生安全防控有重要的警示和指导意义。
Recently, they isolated the new crown virus from the urine of patients with new crown pneumonia, which has important warning and guiding significance for public health safety control.
目前，相关课题组正在围绕病毒的致病机制和药物治疗靶点等开展研究。
At present, the relevant research group is focusing on the pathogenesis of the virus and drug treatment targets.
外围影响1.人社部：企业员工感染新冠肺炎不能认定工伤。
Peripheral influence 1. The person ministry: The enterprise employee infects the new crown pneumonia cannot confirm the work injury.
人社部2月21日表示，在新冠肺炎预防和救治工作中，医护及相关工作人员因履行工作职责，感染新冠肺炎或因新冠肺炎死亡的，应认定为工伤。
The Ministry of Health today (February 21) said that in the prevention and treatment of pneumonia in the new crown, health care and related workers who discharge their duties and contracted pneumonia or died of Newcrown Pneumonia shall be considered as industrial injuries.
如果不是从事新冠肺炎预防和相关工作人员，感染新冠肺炎不能认定为工伤。
If not engaged in new crown pneumonia prevention and related staff, infection with pneumonia can not be recognized as an injury.
2.摩根士丹利预测中国一季度 GDP 或低至 3.5%。
Morgan Stanley forecasts that China's GDP could fall as low as 3.5% in the first quarter.
摩根士丹利 2 月 19 日发布的一份研究报告称，如果新冠肺炎疫情控制速度不足以使制造业恢复到正常水平，中国一季度的经济增长可能会降至 3.5%。
Growth in China could slow to 3.5 percent in the first quarter if the new crown pneumonia epidemic is not controlled fast enough to restore manufacturing to normal, according to a study released February 19 by Morgan Stanley.
报告称，尽管地方政府正在放松对生产暂停的限制，但现有的宏观和微观数据表明，中国的生产活动恢复缓慢。
According to the report, although local governments are easing production moratoriums, available macro and microdata suggest a slow recovery in production activity in China.
摩根士丹利中国行业分析师的调查数据显示，上周的产量水平仅达到正常水平的 30%-50%，有望在 2 月底达到正常水平的60%-80%，在 3 月中下旬恢复正常。
Production levels last week were only 30% to 50% of normal levels, according to Morgan Stanley China industry analysts, and are on track to reach 60% to 80% of normal levels by the end of February, before returning to normal in late March.
如果在接下来的两周内没有控制好疫情的传播，则对生产的干扰可能会持续到今年二季度。
If the spread of the epidemic is not contained within the next two weeks, disruption of production could continue into the second quarter of this year.
3.海底捞已获得 21 亿元信贷。
3. Benthic fishing has secured credit amounting to $2.1 billion.
2 月 21 日，财新记者从海底捞方面获悉，海底捞已获得中信银行北京分行与百信银行提供的信贷资金支持 21 亿元，首笔 8.1 亿元放款资金已于 2 月 19 日汇入海底捞账户。
On February 21, Finance and News Correspondents learned from an undersea fishing operation that Benthic fishing had received 2.1 billion yuan in credit support from Citic Bank Beijing Branch and Paterson Bank, and that the first loan of 810 million yuan had been remitted to the seabed fishing account on February 19.
海底捞歇业已近一个月，中信建投研报预计其全年营收将损失 61 亿元，近日外送业务部分恢复。
Nearly a month after closing, Citic Construction Research said it expected to lose 6.1 billion yuan in annual revenue, with some of the outsourcing business resuming recently.
4.主要快递企业整体复工率近七成。
4. Overall return to work rate of major express enterprises nearly 70%.
交通运输部政策研究室主任吴春耕表示，快递业稳步恢复，中国邮政、顺丰和京东基本全部复工，其他主要快递企业整体复工率达到 66.7%。
Wu Chunyuan, director of policy research at the Ministry of Transport, said the express delivery industry had recovered steadily, with China Post, Shunfeng and Jingdong all basically back to work, while other major express-delivery enterprises had overall restarted work rates of 66.7 per cent.
5.上海暂停高校毕业生现场招聘活动。
Shanghai suspended the on-site recruitment activities for college graduates.
上海市教委发布通知，对 2020 届上海市高校毕业生就业工作做出部署。
Shanghai Education Commission issued a notice to the 2020 Shanghai College graduates to make arrangements for employment.
通知要求，要暂停现场招聘活动，各高校、研究生培养单位、各区就业服务部门须暂停一切毕业生现场招聘活动，不得接待用人单位进校宣讲；暂停组织实施上海市 2020 年事业单位集中公开招聘考试和“三支一扶”人员招录工作。
The notice requires that on-site recruitment activities be suspended and that universities, graduate training units and regional employment service departments suspend all on-site recruitment activities for graduates and employers from receiving employers for talks at schools; and suspend the organization of the Shanghai Central Public Recruitment Examination for 2020 and the recruitment of personnel for the "three arms."
6.义乌小商品市场转向线上直播。
6. Shift of Yiwu small commodity market to live online.
浙江义乌小商品市场自 2 月 18 日复工以来，因市场客流锐减，多位商铺店主为争取订单转型线上直播，自己当起了“主播”。
Since the resumption of work on Feb. 18, Yiwu small commodity market in Zhejiang Province, due to a sharp decline in passenger flow, many shop owners for the transformation of orders online live, their own "anchor".
目前义乌已有超过 3000 位商家线上“云开市”。
At present Yiwu has more than 3000 businessmen online "cloud open market."
舆论关注1.临沂兰陵两名男子向湖北黄冈等地运送物资被行政拘留。
Two men in Linyi Lanling have been placed in administrative detention for transporting materials to Huanggang, Huanggang, Hubei Province.
2 月 19 日，兰陵县公安局查处一起拒不执行紧急状态下决定、命令案，抓获何某法、朱某祥。
February 19, Lanling County Public Security Bureau investigated and dealt with a refusal to implement a decision, order under a state of emergency, captured He Mifa, Zhu Moxiang.
经查，二人先后三次组织人员、车辆向湖北省黄冈市等疫情较重地区运送面粉、蔬菜等物资。
After investigation, the two men organized three times to transport flour, vegetables and other materials to Huanggang city in Huanggang, Hubei Province.
因违反新冠肺炎期间的《“三供”实施方案》，被行政机关拘留。
He was detained by the administration for violating the "Three Supply" Implementation Scheme during the New Crown Pneumonia.
通报引发社会反响后，兰陵县公安局回应称，二人行为是以营利为目的，返回后隐瞒行程，给疫情防控带来重大安全隐患。
The announcement triggered a social response, Lanling County Public Security Bureau responded that the two acts are for profit-making purposes, after the return of the hidden itinerary, to bring major security risks to disease prevention and control.
2.训斥护士的公务员被停职检查。
2. Civil servants reprimanding nurses were suspended from duty.
2 月 20 日，一则“患者无端训斥护士扫厕所”的视频在社交网络流传。
On Feb. 20, a video of patients scolding nurses to clean the toilet circulated on social networks.
被训斥护士向南都记者表示，当晚该患者换病房后多次反馈病房卫生问题，并在护士参与危重病人抢救以及消毒时要求其清洗厕所。
The nurse was reprimanded and told Nantou that he had repeatedly complained about the hospital's hygiene after changing wards that night and had been asked to clean the toilet when nurses were involved in the rescue and disinfection of critically ill patients.
护士告知其已帮忙联系上报后，患者依然态度粗暴。
When the nurse told him she had helped contact him, the patient remained violent.
2 月 21 日，湖北省市场监管局通报称，该患者为该局后勤服务中心筹备组副组长朱保华。
On February 21, the Hubei Provincial Market Supervisory Authority announced that the patient was Zhu Baohua, vice-chairman of the preparatory group for the Bureau's logistics service center.
该局党组已对其作出停职检查等决定。
The group has suspended him from work and other decisions.
事发后朱保华在微信朋友圈发布道歉书，向被训斥医护人员道歉，并称“康复后会响应号召捐血抗疫。
Zhu issued a letter of apology after the incident in Weixin circle of friends, apologized to the medical personnel reprimanded, and said "recovery will be called upon to donate blood to fight the epidemic.
”3.武钢生产中的防疫情况让人担忧。
"3. The epidemic prevention situation in the production of WISCO gives cause for concern.
武汉钢铁有限公司的生产及防疫情况引起不少员工担忧。
Wuhan Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. production and epidemic prevention situation caused many staff worried.
武钢有限目前在岗工作的工人有 6000 余名。
WISCO has more than 6000 workers on duty at present.
企业会每日发放口罩，按规定进行消毒。
Masks will be issued daily and disinfected as required.
但武钢员工反应口罩每天只有一个，消毒液有时领不到。
But WISCO staff only one reaction mask per day, disinfectant sometimes do not get.
还有更多隐患：班车大巴不开窗， 46 座的班车一般上座在 30 人左右。
More hidden dangers: Shuttle buses do not open windows, 46-seat buses generally seat about 30 people.
工人进出车间还要经历集体洗澡、集体换衣服。
Workers also go through group bathing and changing clothes in groups when entering and leaving the workshop.
武钢有限是中国最大钢铁央企中国宝武钢铁集团有限公司的重要基地之一。
WISCO is one of the important bases of China Baowu Iron and Steel Group Co. Ltd.
截止 2 月 22 日，武钢有限一直在正常生产，并未减产。
As of February 22, Wu Gang limited has been in normal production, did not reduce production.
武钢有限还提供了全武汉市 50% 以上的医用氧， 为两神山亿元供应数百吨彩涂板，并为青山区新冠肺炎定点医院、发热门诊等医疗机构供电。
Wu Gang also supplies more than 50% of the medical oxygen in all of Wuhan, hundreds of tons of painted slabs for the two Shenshan Mountain areas, and supplies electricity to medical institutions such as the Xinguan Pneumonia Hospital and the Heat Clinic in Qingshan District.
截至 2 月 13 日 15：00，武钢有限确诊病例 69 例。
As of 15: 00 on February 13, Wu Gang limited confirmed cases 69 cases.
文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nsqPfOLQkAzIzt2VwGw1X1KuvnnSkTq7wpcpvrC-UWc/edit《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报》，可复制链接后科6学6上网打开。
All news and sources in the article can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 1nsqPfoLQkAzIzt2VwGw1x1Kuvnn SkTq7wpcpvrC-UWc / edit The Daily Outbreak of New Coronavirus Pneumonia.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最新研究发现新冠病毒和穿山甲无直接关系，多地监狱爆发聚集性传染，以及其他 34 条疫情新闻。
The latest study found no direct link between the new crown virus and pangolin, a spate of prison infections, and 34 other news items.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "最新研究发现新冠病毒和穿山甲无直接关系，多地监狱爆发聚集性传染，以及其他 34 条疫情新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; The latest study found no direct relationship between the new crown virus and pangolin, an outbreak of concentrated infection in many prisons, and 34 other epidemiological news & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We've selected RPG's important news for you;;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
