29岁的彭银华医生殉职，结婚照成了遗照。
Dr. Peng Yinhua, 29, died in the line of duty.
王鑫昕 孙庆玲。
Wang Xin Xin Sun Qingling.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
彭银华的照片下摆满菊花。
Peng Yinhua's photos are covered with chrysanthemums.
中青报·中青网记者 王鑫昕/摄中国青年报客户端武汉2月22日电作者 王鑫昕 孙庆玲编辑 张国彭银华医生走了。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News reporter Wang Xinxin / China Youth Daily Client Wuhan Feb. 22 The writer Wang Xin Xin Sun Ling editor Dr. Zhang GuoYinhua left.
因感染新冠肺炎，2020年2月20日21时50分，他在武汉金银潭医院去世，年仅29岁。
On 20 February 2020, at 2150 hours, he died at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, aged 29, as a result of contracting pneumonia in the New Crown Pneumonia.
2月21日，在他所供职的武汉市江夏区第一人民医院的一间会议室里，同事们捧着菊花向这位以身殉职的年轻医生告别。
Colleagues greeted the young doctor who died in the line of duty with chrysanthemums in a conference room at the Jiangxia First People's Hospital in Wuhan on February 21.
他还没来得及使用的结婚纪念照被投射在幕布上，成了遗照。
Before he could use the wedding photo, it was projected on the curtain and became a relic.
“吃了你的喜糖，却没能参加你的婚礼。
"I ate your candy, but I didn't get to your wedding.
”一位同事在旁边的笔记本上留言，“心里一直在想你会好起来，却没想到……”Play“青蜂侠”视频按照原本的计划，彭银华和妻子要在2月1日——农历正月初八这天举行婚礼。
A colleague wrote in a notebook nearby, "I thought you were going to be okay, but I didn't think..." As originally planned, Mr. Peng and his wife were to get married on February 1, the eighth day of the first month of the lunar month.
他已经邀请了科室同事们“热闹一下”。
He has invited his colleagues in the department to have a "fuss."
办公桌抽屉里还放着没发出的请柬。
There are still unsent invitations in the desk drawer.
婚礼只是仪式，这对年轻夫妇已经领了结婚证，孩子在妈妈肚子里有6个月了，同事们和他开玩笑说，再不办婚礼就要变成3个人了。
The ceremony was just a ceremony at which the young couple, who had been on their mother's tummy for six months, teased him that the wedding would take three people.
跟疫情粗暴打断的所有事情一样，这场婚礼不得不暂时取消。
Like everything that was violently interrupted by the outbreak, the wedding had to be cancelled temporarily.
1月21日，彭银华所在的呼吸与危重症医学科3病区被列为第二批投入收治“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”的住院隔离病区。
On January 21, Peng Yinhua's Respiratory and Critical Medicine Division 3 was listed as the second group of hospitalized quarantined areas for "unspecified viral pneumonia."
当晚，彭银华的同事李英璞值班，她记得一晚上收治了40位患者，第二天再来上班时，100多张床位几乎满了。
In the evening, PengYinhua's colleague, Li Yingpu, was on duty. She remembered that she had treated 40 patients in one night, and when she returned to work the next day, more than 100 beds were almost full.
“随着疫情的升级，他主动说，大家工作都很忙，他就不去办婚礼了。
"As the epidemic escalated, he volunteered that because everyone was busy at work, he would not go to the wedding.
”江夏区第一人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科3病区主任陈浩向记者回忆。
Jiang Xia District First People's Hospital Respiratory and Critical Medicine Division 3 Director Chen Hao recalled to reporters.
“当时任务非常重，老百姓蜂拥而至，我们如果不把病人尽可能地收进来，他们就会流到社会上去，又会导致疾病的蔓延。
"The task was very heavy and the people were coming in, and if we didn't get the patients in as much as possible, they would go out into society and cause the disease to spread.
”陈浩说，“那几天，我们所有的医生吃住都在医院里面。
"All our doctors ate and stayed in the hospital for a few days," Chen said.
”看到眼前形势，有些医务人员已经有些不好的预感，有人直接打电话给家人，说自己可能得在医院过年了。
"Seeing this, some medical staff already had a bad feeling that someone was calling their families and telling them they might have to spend the New Year in the hospital.
病房里，彭银华和同事们一样，接收病人、办理住院、开医嘱，还要安抚惊慌的病人，忙得连轴转。
In the ward, Peng Yinhua, like his colleagues, received patients, hospitalized, prescribed doctors, but also to appease panic-stricken patients, busy.
他一度连续值班长达48小时。
He was on duty for 48 hours at a time.
疫情防控期间彭银华的工作照。
The work of Peng Yinhua during epidemic prevention and control.
赵莹/供图“当时的状况是，如果有一个人休息一下，就意味着别人更累。
Zhao Ying / Supply Pics The situation then was that if one person took a rest, it meant that others were more tired.
” 李英璞说，像彭银华这样的热心人，更是冲在了前面。
Li Yingpu said, such as Peng Yinhua warm-hearted people, but also rushed in the front.
在她印象中，即便平时，无论医生还是护士，只要说“彭银华，来搭把手”，他就会放下可以暂缓的手头工作来帮忙。
She had the impression that, even in normal times, when a doctor or a nurse simply said "Peng Yinhua, come and get a handle," he would put aside the work at hand to help him.
在早期的忙乱中，不少医务人员被病毒击中。
In the early bustle, many medical personnel were hit by the virus.
1月23日开始，彭银华出现低烧、咳嗽症状。
January 23, Peng Yinhua appeared low fever, cough symptoms.
同事们高度警觉，1月25日给他做了检查，医学影像显示是病毒性肺炎，但“冠状病毒核酸检测阴性”，也“没有看到明显的感染病灶”。
Colleagues were on high alert when they examined him on January 25 and medical images showed viral pneumonia but "negative for coronavirus nucleic acid test" and "no clear infection focus."
第二天，彭银华仍然不舒服，同事让他再去查一次肺部CT。
The next day, Peng Yinhua was still not feeling well and his colleague asked him to check his lung CT again.
“这次就感染到了。
"This time it's infected.
”陈浩说。
"said Chen Hao.
直到今天，同事们也无法回溯彭银华是在哪一天、在什么场合被病毒入侵的。
To this day, colleagues cannot trace the date and place Peng Yinhua was invaded by the virus.
呼吸与危重症医学科护士长赵莹说，那段时间收治的疑似病人太多，不知道是哪里感染的。
Zhao Ying, head nurse of respiratory and critical medical science, said there were too many suspected patients admitted during that period and did not know where the infection had occurred.
1月30日晚，由于病情没有得到控制，反而逐渐加重，彭银华被转入金银潭医院重症监护病房。
On the night of Jan. 30, Mr. Pang was transferred to the intensive care unit of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital as his condition was not under control.
但病情仍然反复，有时会传来病情稳定的消息。
However, the condition is still repeated, sometimes with stable news.
李英璞记得，2月2日那天，彭银华早餐吃了两碗青菜瘦肉粥。
Li Yingpu remembered that on February 2, Peng Yinhua had two bowls of lean porridge for breakfast.
“我们觉得这是好事，说明他在好转，大家都鼓励他。
"We thought it was a good thing that he was getting better and that everyone was encouraging him.
”到2月9日，彭银华病情又加重了，血氧饱和度下降。
By February 9, Peng Yinhua's condition had worsened, and her blood oxygen saturation had declined.
2月10日，李英璞听说他已接受插管治疗。
On February 10, Li Yingpu heard that he had received intubation treatment.
赵莹也牵挂着这位年轻的同事。
Zhao Ying also worried about the young colleague.
有一次她问彭银华想不想喝牛奶，得到回复：“如果方便，就给我带点吧。
Once she asked Peng Yinhua if she would like to drink milk. "If it's convenient, bring me some.
”这让她感觉情况好转了。
It made her feel better.
彭银华还在微信里对同事说，我一定要坚持，我还有没出生的小孩。
'I must insist that I have unborn children, 'Mr. Pang told her colleagues in a micro-letter.
怀有身孕的妻子也在给他加油打气。
His pregnant wife was giving him a pep talk.
在澎湃新闻提到的一张微信聊天截图中，妻子对他说：“记得我永远在你身边陪着你、爱着你，还有宝宝，我们一起等你回来。
"Remember that I'll always be there for you, always with you, always with you, and baby, and we'll all wait for you to come back," she said in a microphone chat shown on the surging news.
”“谢谢老婆关心，我一定会更加努力，早点回去的。
"" Thanks to my wife for asking, but I will definitely try harder and go back earlier.
”在这段发生在2月8日的对话中，正在经历艰难治疗的彭银华仍然乐观。
In this conversation, which took place on February 8, Peng Yinhua, who was undergoing difficult treatment, remained optimistic.
彭银华的新婚照。
Peng Yinhua's recent wedding photo.
赵莹/供图为了救治彭银华，院方曾考虑采用血浆疗法，为他注射新冠肺炎康复者捐献的血浆，但第一批血浆血型未能匹配。
Zhao Ying / Figure To treat Peng Yinhua, the hospital considered using plasma therapy to inject him with plasma donated by patients recovering from New Crown Pneumonia, but the first blood group failed to match.
2月12日找到了与他匹配的200毫升康复期血浆，但他接受注射后，病情仍在恶化。
On 12 February, he was found to have matched his 200 ml convalescent plasma, but his condition continued to deteriorate following the injection.
2月20日晚，彭银华经抢救无效去世。
On the night of Feb. 20, Peng Yinhua died in vain.
一个微博账号首先披露了彭医生去世的消息。
A microblog account first disclosed the news of Dr. Peng's death.
李英璞一度不相信这是真的。
Li Yingpu did not believe that this is true.
“谁都接受不了。
"No one can accept it.
我们知道这个病肯定会死人，但从来没想到会是身边的朋友，从来没想到他会走得那么快。
We know this disease is certain to die, but never thought it would be a friend around, never thought he would walk so fast.
”同事的留言。
"A message from a colleague.
中青报·中青网记者 王鑫昕/摄那天晚上，有人彻夜未眠，有人发朋友圈悼念他，有人则把头像换成了点亮的蜡烛。
Xinxin Wang, a reporter for Zhongqing Daily, said that some people stayed up all night, some friends mourned him, while others switched their heads to lighted candles.
在江夏区第一人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科，值班的同事们甚至很难找到完整的为他默哀的时间——争分夺秒救治病人的工作仍在继续。
In the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District breathing and critical medicine, duty colleagues find it difficult to find even a full time of silence for him - the battle for time to heal patients continues.
“我们也会怕，但是我们不会退。
"We will be afraid, but we will not retreat.
”赵莹说，“有人说‘我不怕’，我说你真的不怕吗？你是圣人吗？其实不是不怕，而是当进入到那个环境，看到了病人，我们都忘记了害怕。
"I'm not afraid," said Zhao Ying. "I'm not afraid." I said, "Are you really not afraid? Are you a saint?
”（本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
(The article was produced independently by China Youth Daily, which started with the client and headline numbers of China Youth Daily and joined the Tree Program.
）中国青年报·中国青年网出品觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily China Youth Net products feel good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
29岁的彭银华医生殉职，结婚照成了遗照。
Dr. Peng Yinhua, 29, died in the line of duty.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "29岁的彭银华医生殉职，结婚照成了遗照";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Dr. Peng Yinhua, 29, was killed while on duty.
var msg_desc = "他也有个没出生的孩子";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he also had a baby that wasn't born;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
