战“疫”物资漂洋过海的最后一公里。
The plague was the last mile across the ocean.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
华科北京校友会和德国校友会联合采购的医疗物资进入医院一线。
Medical supplies procured jointly by the Huako Beijing Alumni Association and the German Alumni Association entered the hospital front.
受访者供图本文约3940字预计阅读时间11分钟作者 王景烁编辑 陈卓60小时后，那批2.5吨重的防护物资，终于从美国旧金山抵达武汉华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院（以下简称武汉协和医院）。
The 2.5-ton batch of protective materials finally arrived at Concorde Hospital, an annex of Tongji Medical School, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan (hereinafter referred to as Wuhan Concorde Hospital).
1月31日，武汉大学北加州校友会和华中科技大学（以下简称华科）北加州校友会联合发起了募捐活动，美国慈善基金会Direct Relief捐赠了这批物资。
On January 31, the North California Alumni Association of Wuhan University and the Huazhong University of Science and Technology launched a joint fundraising campaign with the North Carolina Alumni Association, donated by the American charitable foundation Direct Relief.
包括中国邮政、华科武汉校友会以及一个志愿者车队一同为它搭建了“最后一公里”的通道。
A team of volunteers, including China Post, the Wuhan Alumni Association of China and a volunteer team, built the "last kilometer" route for it.
新冠肺炎疫情发生后，有诸多团队开始在海外筹集物资。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, many teams began to raise money overseas.
在这些向全球延伸的筹措物资渠道中，这“最后一公里”是重要的一环。
This "last mile" is an important part of the global reach of these financing channels.
在接受中青报·中青网记者采访时，一位在海外筹集物资的志愿者称，他最怕的不是没有物资，而是“买了物资，但运不到一线”。
In an interview with the China Youth Daily, a volunteer who raised supplies overseas said he feared not so much the lack of supplies as "the purchase of goods but not the delivery of first-line goods."
目前，一些国家已经缩减或暂停了飞往中国的航班。
At present, some countries have scaled back or suspended flights to China.
武汉市的交通管制也在逐步升级，途经武汉的所有航班暂停，高速路口封闭，市内机动车限行。
Wuhan city traffic control is also gradually upgraded, through Wuhan all flights were suspended, high-speed intersections closed, the city's motor vehicles restricted.
即使多家物流公司相继推出了针对疫区免费运输援助物资的服务，但这些海外物资进入湖北地区基层的一线医院，仍有或多或少的梗阻。
Even though a number of logistics companies have launched free transportation assistance to epidemic areas, but these overseas materials into the Hubei grassroots level of the first-line hospitals, there are still more or less obstruction.
而那批从美国旧金山抵达武汉的防护物资，在多方共同搭建的通道下，走完“最后一公里”，只用了不到4个小时。
The convoy, which arrived in Wuhan from San Francisco, completed the "last mile" in less than four hours under a multi-party tunnel.
1那批2.5吨重的物资包括20万个医用外科口罩、2.75万双医用手套及4000件防护服。
The 2.5-ton consignment consisted of 200,000 medical surgical masks, 27,500 pairs of medical gloves and 4,000 pieces of protective clothing.
物资到达武汉的当天早上，华科武汉校友会的秘书长方华就开始联系可以搬运的叉车，可司机们的回复都是“人和车现在都不能出来干活”。
On the morning of the arrival of the goods in Wuhan, Fang Hua, the secretary-general of the Wuhan Alumni Association of China, contacted the forklift that could be moved.
后来，方华找到了校友会的志愿者朱从香，这位志愿者同时也是豹变志愿者车队的司机。
Later, Fang found a volunteer with the Alumni Association, Zhu Yongxiang, who was also the driver of the LEOPARD to volunteer team.
武汉疫情形势升级后，包括他在内的170多名志愿司机已给当地医院运送及分发过多批物资，其中一半来自海外。
Since the escalation of the epidemic in Wuhan, more than 170 volunteer drivers, including him, have delivered and distributed batches of supplies to local hospitals, half of them from overseas.
为了带着这些物资跑好“最后一公里”，朱从香每天早上10点出车，一直运送到晚上8点。
In order to run the "last mile" with the supplies, Zhu left at 10 am every morning and delivered it until 8pm.
一天下来，差不多要跑5趟。
At the end of the day, it takes almost five runs.
在路上跑了20多天，他了解这些物资在运输途中存在的障碍：一个单位捐助了20箱物资，但指定分配到4家医院，这意味着，运输就要跑4次。
After more than 20 days on the road, he was aware of the obstacles to the transport of these materials: one unit had donated 20 boxes of supplies but had earmarked them for distribution to four hospitals, which meant that the transport had to run four times.
一个香港的组织捐助了720万只防护手套，共7200箱，定向捐赠给湖北多地的100多家医院。
A Hong Kong group donated 7.2 million protective gloves, or 7,200 boxes, to more than 100 hospitals in Hubei province.
他们光是卸货就卸了2天，还要先把货物放入一位志愿者提供的临时仓库里，方便清点。
They unloaded the goods for two days and put them in a makeshift warehouse provided by a volunteer to facilitate an inventory.
14位志愿者驾车跑了100多趟才最终运送完毕。
Fourteen volunteers drove more than 100 times before they were finally delivered.
为了解决物流的积压问题，如今他所在的志愿车队广泛使用的一种分发方式是，让定向捐赠的海外组织先把物资寄到武汉某快递的物流中心，他们直接开去物流中心取货，然后送至一线医院。
To address the logistics backlog, one of the modes of distribution now widely used by his volunteer fleet is for targeted overseas organizations to send supplies first to a express logistics centre in Wuhan, where they take delivery directly to the logistics centre and then to the first-line hospital.
但这还不是“最后一公里”上藏着的唯一问题。
But this is not the only problem hiding on the "last mile."
2月1日，华科武汉校友会成为协同管理武汉红十字会仓库的数家单位之一。
On Feb. 1, the Wuhan Alumni Association became one of several units that co-managed the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse.
校友会的秘书长方华组织了60余人的志愿者队伍，排成3班，轮流去位于武汉国际博览中心的捐赠物资仓库，帮助进行物资整理和搬运的工作，完成包裹开箱检查、登记入库、统一调配，以及最后出库等环节。
The Secretary-General of the Alumni Association, Fang Hua, has organized a group of more than 60 volunteers in three shifts to the donated warehouse at Wuhan International Expo Center to help with the sorting and handling of materials, and to complete the unpacking, check-in, warehousing, consolidation and final delivery of parcels.
朱从香曾参与其中。
Zhu was one of them.
在他的印象里，“大批医疗物资来到仓库，即使迅速运转，从登记到最后送入一线医院，也要一定的时间。
In his mind, "it takes time for large quantities of medical supplies to arrive at the warehouse, even if quickly, from registration to final delivery to a first-line hospital."
”他说，审批等环节都顺利的情况下，出货也要两小时。
He said it would take two hours for shipments to proceed smoothly, such as approval.
运力也需要综合配置。
Capacity also needs to be integrated.
目前，红会提供将医疗物资从仓库运送一线医院的服务，但出于统筹的考虑，几乎不可能一次只送一批很少量的物资，需要尽量将运输车塞满。
At present, ICRC provides services for the transportation of medical supplies from warehouses to first-line hospitals, but it is almost impossible to send only a small quantity of supplies at a time, as far as possible filling the trucks.
朱从香表示，容易出现的情况是，各种渠道的捐赠物资汇聚到一起，一份运输清单上有十几二十份等待分发的物资。
Zhu said it was easy for donations from various sources to come together and there were a dozen or so items waiting to be distributed on a shipping list.
“还有不少社会爱心人士捐赠的物资，标准低于医用标准，两者掺杂在一起，需要花时间来分类。
"There are also a lot of materials donated by people of social concern that are below medical standards, mixed together and taking time to sort them out.
”方华补充。
Mr Fang added.
1月30日，武汉红十字会发布《武汉市红十字会对社会公告》（第六号），其中提到在获得了慈善总会或红十字会的批文后，定向捐赠的物资可以直接送入对应的一线医院。
On January 30, Wuhan Red Cross Society issued the Wuhan Red Cross Society Notice (No. 6), which refers to the fact that targeted donations can be sent directly to the corresponding front-line hospitals after obtaining approval from the General Association of Charities or the Red Cross.
因为身处武汉，华科武汉校友会也成为了这部分海外物资进入武汉或者湖北省内其他医院的中转站。
Being in Wuhan, Wuhan Huaku Alumni Association has also become a transit point for overseas materials entering Wuhan or other hospitals in Hubei Province.
该校友会找到了一个仓库，用于临时存放当下难以直接分发的物资。
The alumni association found a warehouse for the temporary storage of items that were currently difficult to distribute directly.
一批医疗物资运抵武汉后，她就带着校友志愿者将其暂存到这个临时仓库，等待医院来人取货，也同时进行派送。
After a shipment of medical supplies arrived in Wuhan, she took her alumni volunteers to the temporary warehouse and waited for the hospital to pick up the goods and deliver them at the same time.
在这些物资的中转过程中。
In the course of transit of these materials.
一些物资紧张的医院甚至半夜一两点打来电话，“我们直接来取！”2这“最后一公里”连接的是焦急的两方。
Some of the straitened hospitals even called in the middle of the night at one or two o'clock, "Let's get it!" 2 The "last kilometer" connects the anxious two.
在疫情严重的湖北省，很多地方都遇到了物资紧缺的问题。
In Hubei province, where the epidemic is severe, many places are experiencing material shortages.
华科北京校友会副秘书长刘稷轩记得襄阳某医院曾传来照片，医护人员穿的防护服是“那种最简单的无纺布”。
Liu Jixuan, deputy secretary-general of the Beijing Alumni Association of China, remembers pictures from a hospital in Xiangyang where medical staff wore protective clothing that was "the simplest kind of non-woven fabric."
他们还接到湖北某市疾控部门发来的求助消息：消毒液、酒精、过氧乙酸都缺，过氧乙酸最好能给“半吨或一吨”。
They also received a call for help from a city in Hubei province: disinfectant, alcohol, peroxyacetic acid are all in short supply, and peroxyacetic acid is best given "half a ton or a ton."
另一位副秘书长谈慧玲记得，孝感一家医院找来并登记后，还要再加上孝感检疫中心。
Another Under-Secretary-General, Dao Hui-ling, remembers that filial piety was found and registered at a hospital, plus a filial piety quarantine center.
对方称，那里的工作人员前往当地医院领取患者标本时，全身的防护措施仅为一个医用外科口罩。
When the staff went to the local hospital to collect the specimens, the full-body protective measures were a medical surgical mask, the other said.
“绝大部分医院都非常缺物资。
"Most hospitals are desperately short of supplies.
”她说，自己对接的多位医务工作者都有同样的态度，“不怕上前线，但真的不想’裸奔’！”1月21日，华科北京校友会开始联系海外校友会，决定由北京校友会负责募集捐款，德国、法国、西雅图等地的校友会负责采购医疗物资。
"I'm not afraid to go to the front, but I really don't want to go nude," she said. On January 21, the Beijing Alumni Association of China began contacting overseas alumni associations, deciding that the Beijing Alumni Association would be responsible for collecting donations and that the alumni associations in Germany, France and Seattle would be responsible for procuring medical supplies.
1月24日16时，募捐渠道正式开通，他们成为海外筹措物资的团队之一。
At 1600 hours on 24 January, fund-raising channels were officially opened and they became one of the teams involved in raising funds from abroad.
问题是，从1月的最后几天开始，海外的防护物资变得紧张。
The problem is that, starting in the last few days of January, overseas supplies are getting tight.
有人趁机抬价，将N95口罩卖到每只32元，还有人把杜邦防护服卖到320元一套。
Someone took advantage of the situation to sell N95 masks for $32 each, while others sold DuPont suits for $320.
谈慧玲告诉中青报·中青网记者，她所了解的货源价位多数都上涨了，不少高了10倍。
Zhang Huiling told the Zhongqing News Zhongying. com that most of the prices she knew about the source prices had gone up 10 times.
华中科技大学德国校友会为了采购物资，曾带着20万欧元的定金，在没有预约的情况下，从法兰克福开了300公里，找到位于拉施塔特县的一家专业防护产品制造商DACH公司，敲定了货源。
The German Alumni Association of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, with a deposit of 200,000 euros, drove 300 kilometres from Frankfurt without an appointment to locate DACH, a professional protective products manufacturer in Rastat County, to finalize the sourcing.
但是，仅仅两天后，供应商就通知要退款毁约。
However, only two days later, the supplier gave notice of the refund for breach of contract.
理由是“当时法国巴黎确诊了一例新冠肺炎，德国希望把物资留给德国防疫部门”。
The reason: "At that time, Paris, France confirmed a case of pneumonia, Germany would like to leave the goods to the German epidemic prevention authorities."
后来，这次驰援疫区活动采购组组长打开手机，播放了一段武汉医生救治病人的现场视频，告诉对方，“如果这次武汉顶住了，德国就能顶得住！”供应商才终于同意按原计划提供这批医疗物资。
Later, the head of the team turned on his cell phone and showed a video of a Wuhan doctor treating the patient, telling him, "If Wuhan withstands this time, Germany can sustain!" The supplier finally agreed to deliver the medical supplies as planned.
供应商同意发货，华科德国校友会立即组织人手将货物运到德国法兰克福机场。
The supplier agreed to deliver the goods and the WACK German Alumni Association immediately organized the shipment to Frankfurt airport in Germany.
后来，该校友会的一位负责人听说，德国另一个募集防护物资的团队，订购的一批口罩，在离目的地半小时车程时被供应商召回。
Later, a leader of the alumni association heard that another German group collecting protective equipment had ordered masks that had been recalled by the supplier half an hour from their destination.
3在这场多方参与的赛跑中，交通的重要性不言而喻。
In this multi-party race, the importance of transportation is self-evident.
但是一些募集物资的团队表示，实际运输的过程并不容易。
But some collection teams say the actual transportation process is not easy.
“寻找运力很难，货物量和航班量都是影响因素。
"It's hard to find the capacity. The volume of cargo and the volume of flights are all factors.
”华科德国校友会秘书长何烁介绍，那批价值260万元人民币的物资分乘7架飞机上才最终被运回国内。
He Shuo, general secretary of the Wako German Alumni Association, said the 2.6 million yuan consignment was eventually shipped back to China on board seven planes.
华科北京校友会的一位负责人告诉记者，意大利飞往国内的航班也已双向关停，当地的物资必须从意大利经由奥地利维也纳发送回国，还要额外付每件二三十元人民币用于清关。
A head of the Huaco Beijing Alumni Association told reporters that flights from Italy to the country have also been closed in both directions and that supplies must be sent home from Italy via Vienna, Austria, with an extra Rmb20 or $30 each for customs clearance.
有时候，一些商业航班用相当于以前运费5倍的价钱都找不到。
In some cases, commercial flights are not available for a price five times higher than the previous rate.
运送至国内的物资依然面临诸多困难。
Delivery of goods into the country continues to face many difficulties.
目前，中国邮政、顺丰速运、京东物流、菜鸟物流等一大批国内的快递公司也开通了全国各地驰援武汉的救援物资“绿色通道”，但仍难提供充足的保障。
At present, a large number of domestic express delivery companies, such as China Post, Shun Fenghao, Jingdong Logistics, and Ningbird Logistics, have opened "Green Channel" of relief materials all over the country, but it is still difficult to provide adequate protection.
记者分别致电几家快递公司咨询得到的回应是，目前邮政可以到达湖北所有地区的一线医院；顺丰只针对政府和慈善机构，运输“到武汉也要比平常晚2天”，有工作人员表示还需到集散点自取；京东则称“优先保障武汉”，湖北其他地区“时效不能保证”；而菜鸟只能送达湖北的武汉、黄冈和孝感三个城市。
Reporters called several express delivery companies to consult the response is that at present, the postal service can reach all areas of Hubei first-line hospitals; Shunfeng only for the government and charitable organizations, transport "Wuhan is more than two days later than usual," staff said to the distribution points, "priority guarantee Wuhan," Hubei other areas "statute of limitations can only serve Hubei three cities.
相比快递运送，货车物流受到的限制更多。
Truck logistics is more constrained than express delivery.
物流服务平台货拉拉称，他们可以承担机构和个人在武汉市内的运送业务，跨市、跨省只受理政府和慈善机构；另一个物流平台福佑卡车也称，“若实在想运医疗物资，可以帮忙想想办法，从之前的经验讲，可能要到高速路口自取。
Logistics platform cargo Lala said that they can assume the agency and individuals in Wuhan city transport business, cross-city, inter-provincial only deal with the government and charity, another logistics platform FU You truck also said that if you really want to ship medical supplies, you can help find a way out
”美国一个位于旧金山湾区的生命科学公益组织LEAP，也成立了支援疫区的工作组。
LEAP, a life sciences public interest group based in San Francisco Bay, has also set up a working group to support affected areas.
这个小组筹集约18万美元（约合人民币126万元），并从海外向武汉、宜昌、黄冈、孝感等地输送了多批医疗物资。
The group raised about $180,000, or about 1.26 million yuan, and sent medical supplies from overseas to Wuhan, Yichang, Huanggang and other places.
该团队负责人的臧晓羽称，第一批医疗物资抵达广州后，他们联系了宜昌当地的志愿者，由几个志愿者开着当地一家受赠医院提供的救护车前往广州取货，之后，再开车进入湖北几个地方运送。
Zang Xiaoyu, the team leader said that after the first medical supplies arrived in Guangzhou, they contacted the local volunteers in Yichang, by a few volunteers in a local donated hospital to pick up the ambulance, and then drove into Hubei several places to transport.
但这些志愿者只能自由进出宜昌，前往武汉、黄冈时，他们均被挡在了高速路出入口。
But the volunteers were able to enter and leave Yichang freely and were stopped at the entrance to Wuhan and Huanggang.
并且，这一趟之后，跟车的志愿者还要进行隔离。
And, after this trip, the volunteers with the car had to be quarantined.
朱从香接到过一个企业捐赠的需求，对方买下了一批在湖北仙桃的防护服，他开着贴有志愿标示的私家车跑去拿货，可“进去容易出来难”，“毕竟当地的医疗物资也出现紧缺，他们不希望外流。
Zhu received a donation from an enterprise demand, the other side bought a group of Xiantao in Hubei protection clothing, he drove to pick up goods, but "easy to go out", "after all, local medical supplies are in short supply, they do not want to outflow.
”除此之外，由于不熟悉流程，没有直接对接的资源，很多驰援疫区的个人和机构容易陷入繁复的表格及流程中，即使是国内段的物流运输，也不清楚该如何选择，并以最快的速度办下手续。
Besides, because they are not familiar with the procedures and do not have the resources for direct docking, many individuals and organizations in the affected areas are prone to become involved in complicated forms and processes, and even in domestic logistics, do not know how to select and process them as quickly as possible.
一些机构最终找到了华科北京校友会，这个团队如今还承担医疗物资“转运中心”的职能，提供物流对接资源。
Some institutions eventually found the Huaco Beijing Alumni Association, which now functions as a "trans-shipment centre" for medical supplies and provides logistical docking resources.
湖北多地的医疗物资仍处在告急状态。
Medical supplies in Hubei Province are still in a critical state.
截至目前，被华科北京校友会登记在册有物资需求的医院共176家，科室700多个，但这些需求信息也“鱼龙混杂”。
So far, China Alumni Association of Beijing registered 176 hospitals with material needs, more than 700 departments, but these needs information is "mixed."
“几乎所有医院都需要医疗物资，可有的私立医院上报的防护服数量比定点医院的重点科室还多。
"Almost all hospitals need medical supplies, but there are private hospitals that report more protective clothing than designated hospitals.
”该校友会一位负责和医院对接的工作人员说。
"said one alumni association official in charge of docking with the hospital.
因此，基于华科同济医学院的校友资源，他们发放医疗物资的医院要有一名医科专业的校友做担保人——事前对医院的具体需求进行核实，并且拿到医院确认函，之后才会安排发货。
Therefore, based on their alumni resources, the hospitals where they dispense medical supplies are guaranteed by a medical alumnus - checking the specific needs of the hospitals and getting confirmation letters from the hospitals before shipping is arranged.
自除夕前后开始，这些组织驰援疫区的活动多已进行了20余天。
Since New Year's Eve, most of the activities of these organizations in the affected areas have been carried out for more than 20 days.
他们都认为，相比与募捐，采购、运输等环节变量更多。
They all agree that there are more variables in the chain than in fundraising, procurement, transportation, etc.
截至2月17日21点30分，华科北京校友会的募款金额已滚到了1348万余元。
By 21: 30 on Feb. 17, the fund-raising amount of the Huako Beijing Alumni Association had risen to more than 13.48 million yuan.
刘稷轩说，现在他们费心最多的，还是如何能把善款花好。
'Now they're struggling the most, or how to spend the money well, 'says Mr. Liu.
他还在洽谈更多的物资，一批来自日本、新加坡、法国的医疗物资也已整装待发。
He is also negotiating more supplies, and a shipment of medical supplies from Japan, Singapore and France has been prepared.
从支援武汉募捐活动开始，刘稷轩和志愿者们的目标只有一个，“跑赢时间”。
From support to Wuhan fund-raising activities, Liu Jixuan and the volunteers have only one goal, "running win time."
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
战“疫”物资漂洋过海的最后一公里。
The plague was the last mile across the ocean.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "战“疫”物资漂洋过海的最后一公里";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; the last kilometer of & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "目标只有一个，“跑赢时间”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with only one goal, Running Win & quot; & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
