隔离病房里的两个月女婴。
Two-month-old baby girl in the isolation ward.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
中青报·中青网记者白皓 见习记者白毅鹏确诊为新冠肺炎后的第13天，乐乐（化名）出院了。
The 13-day-old reporter Bai Yi-peng was discharged from hospital after being diagnosed with pneumonia.
这一天，是她出生后的第67天。
It was the sixty-seventh day after her birth.
在这场新冠肺炎阻击战中，她是目前全国被治愈出院的最小患者。
She was the smallest person in the country to be cured of pneumonia.
贵州省卫健委公开发布的信息显示，乐乐2月2日凌晨被贵州省人民医院儿科发热门诊收治，第二天，她被确诊为新冠肺炎。
She was admitted to the Pediatric Heating Clinic in Guizhou Province in the early hours of February 2 and was diagnosed with pneumonia the next day, according to information released publicly by the Guizhou Health Care Commission.
那时她还只有56天大。
She was only 56 days old then.
“婴儿很脆弱，各种器官功能发育不完全，可能承受不了一些药物的副作用，治疗有难度。
"Babies are vulnerable, their organs are not fully functional, they may not be able to withstand the side effects of some drugs, and treatment is difficult.
” 贵州省人民医院儿科主任崔玉霞说，儿科在业内被称为“哑科”，婴儿不会和医生交流，乐乐到底有什么异常，医生们只能通过细微的观察判断。
Cui Yuxia, director of pediatrics at Guizhou's People's Hospital, said pediatrics are known in the industry as "dumb" and babies don't communicate with doctors, who can only make small observations about what's wrong with Le Le.
婴儿的治疗方案必须考虑得更周全。
Treatment programmes for infants must be more well thought out.
危险在入院后的第4天凌晨到来。
The risk arrived in the early hours of the fourth day after admission.
乐乐突然哭个不停，动脉血氧分压降到了56毫米汞柱，心率超过200， 咳嗽增多，痰增多，病情开始向重症发展。
Le Le burst into tears, the arterial oxygen pressure dropped to 56 mmHg, the heart rate exceeded 200, coughing increased, sputum increased, and the condition began to develop seriously.
“氧分压降低，有呼吸衰竭的风险。
"Oxygen pressure is reduced and there is a risk of respiratory failure.
”贵州省人民医院儿科主任崔玉霞判断，乐乐的病程进入了最危险的阶段。
Cui Yuxia, director of pediatrics at Guizhou People's Hospital, judged that Le Le's illness had entered its most dangerous phase.
她按照提前准备好的救治预案下达了第一个指令——准备好呼吸机，防备病情继续恶化。
She gave her first order in advance, to be ready to breathe, in case her condition continued to deteriorate.
紧接着，儿科的专家团队集结会诊。
Then a team of pediatric specialists gathered for a consultation.
贵州省人民医院儿科的10位副高级以上职称的大夫紧急坐进了一个小讨论室。
Guizhou Province People's Hospital paediatrics 10 deputy high-level and above the title of the doctor emergency into a small discussion room.
进一步的检查结果显示，乐乐的双肺有片状渗出，磨玻璃样改变，肝功能异常，肌钙蛋白升高。
Further examination showed that the two lungs of Le Le had flaky seepage, grinding glass-like changes, abnormal liver function and elevated troponin.
肌钙蛋白是心肌坏死的标志物，这意味着心脏功能受到损伤，国内一些新冠肺炎的重症或危重症病例，也发现了肌钙蛋白升高的现象。
Troponin is a marker of myocardial necrosis, which means heart function is impaired, and elevated troponin has been found in some severe or critical cases of new crown pneumonia in China.
双肺磨玻璃样改变是新冠肺炎的重要特征，进一步发展成“白肺”，人会活活被憋死。
Two-lung grinding glass-like changes are an important feature of the new crown pneumonia, further development of "white lung", people will be suffocated to death.
而此时，乐乐的表现只是哭闹，喝不下奶。
At this point, Le Le's performance is only crying, drink milk.
“你不知道我有多紧张，躺在办公室睡不着，但在大家面前我得表现出镇定。
"You don't know how nervous I am and I can't sleep in the office, but I have to keep calm in front of everyone.
”崔玉霞对中青报·中青网记者说。
"Cui Yuxia told the China Youth Daily.
为了尽最大努力救治乐乐，贵州省人民医院儿科除了抽调了10名副高级以上职称的大夫组成联合专家组外，还有4位儿科医生管床，6名护士轮流在病房护理，每天早上8点半，10位资深大夫都会坐在一起讨论乐乐的病情。
In order to do their utmost to treat Le Le, the Pediatrics Department of Guizhou Province People's Hospital has four paediatricians to supervise the bed and six nurses take turns to take care of it. At 8: 30 every morning, 10 senior doctors sit together to discuss Le Le's illness.
医院还紧急联系上中华医学会儿科学分会呼吸学组组长、首都医科大学附属北京儿童医院呼吸科主任徐保平教授远程会诊。
The hospital also contacted Professor Xu Baoping, Head of Respiratory Unit of the Paediatrics Branch of the Chinese Medical Association and Director of Respiratory Department, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical University.
继续给氧、保持呼吸道通畅、用干扰素、上保护心肌的药物、雾化……紧张的讨论后，一系列救治意见被带出讨论室，进一步的治疗随即展开。
After intense discussions about continued oxygen delivery, airway patency, interferon use, myocardial protection medications, atomization, a series of treatments were taken out of the discussion room and further treatment was initiated.
2月6日晚，儿科护士何小敏第一次在医院的隔离病房见到乐乐。
On the night of February 6, pediatric nurse Ho Xiaomin met Le Le for the first time in the isolation ward of the hospital.
那一夜，何小敏随时观察，一刻也不敢放松。
That night, He Xiaomin at any time to observe, dare not relax for a moment.
血氧饱和度掉了，她立即上氧。
Blood oxygen saturation's gone. She's on oxygen immediately.
穿着防护服带着两层手套，把输氧管插进鼻腔合适的位置不是件容易的事儿。
Wearing protective clothing and wearing two gloves, it is not easy to insert the oxygen tube into the right place in the nasal cavity.
痰积在嗓子眼儿里，乐乐发出“呼呼”的声音。
The spittoon was in his throat and Le Le made a "whir" sound.
要立即吸痰。
Inhale phlegm immediately.
护目镜边缘勒进何小敏眼眶的肉里，眼前都是雾气，还要带上一块面屏，把吸痰管伸进孩子喉咙中，准确找到位置，吸出痰液。
Edge goggles into the eyes of He Xiaomin's eyes, the eyes are full of fog, but also with a screen, the sputum into the child's throat, accurately find the location, suction sputum.
每一步操作都比日常困难，有时，吸痰管会碰到乐乐娇嫩的喉咙，痰液喷射出来，护士感染的风险成倍增加。
Each step is more difficult than everyday, and sometimes the sputum tube encounters Le Le's delicate throat, spitting out, multiplying the risk of infection for the nurse.
但是没有一个护士退缩过，从进病房之前一两个小时开始不吃不喝，5个小时一个班，脱下防护服精疲力尽。
But none of the nurses flinched, starting an hour or two before entering the ward, five hours a shift, exhausted by their protective clothing.
何小敏说，进入“红区”前，她没告诉父母。
He said she did not tell her parents before entering the "red zone."
男朋友把她送到医院门口，两人挥手告别，这个参加工作3年多的姑娘感觉上了个往常一样的班，却开始了“像电视上一样的战斗”。
Boyfriend sent her to the door of the hospital, they waved goodbye. The girl, who had been working for more than three years, felt like her usual class, but began a "fight like a TV show."
在这场“战斗”里，乐乐和同样确诊的妈妈在一起。
In this "fight," Le Le was with his mother, who was also diagnosed.
她的头发剃掉了，输液的针打在脚上，何小敏知道，这意味着针头在头上、手上都扎不进血管，选择扎脚之前应该没少受苦。
Her hair had been shaved and her infusion needle had hit her feet. He knew that meant that needles could not penetrate the blood vessels in her head and hands.
乐乐的妈妈情绪很低落，她自己也是感染者，但所有心思都在孩子身上，乐乐是她的二胎，只有在妈妈怀里能稍微安静一会儿。
Le Le's mother is depressed, she is infected herself, but all the attention on the children, Le Le is her second child, only in her mother's arms can be a little quiet for a while.
妈妈整夜熬着，一直很内疚。
Mom stayed up all night, feeling guilty all the time.
春节前，乐乐刚满月，远在湖北省安陆市的姥姥姥爷想看看这个刚降临的小天使，一家人下了很大的决心，自驾1000多公里的路于1月16日回到位于安陆市黄荆山的老家。
During the Spring Festival, the grandma-grandma grandma in Anlu, Hubei province, wanted to see the newly arrived angel. With great determination, the family drove more than 1,000 kilometers back to their hometown of Huang Jingshan in Anlu on January 16.
在老家期间，与武汉的亲戚有过接触，回到贵阳后，一家人全部确诊。
During his hometown, he had contact with relatives in Wuhan and returned to Guiyang, where the whole family was diagnosed.
何小敏能看得出乐乐病情加重让妈妈很焦虑，她一直希望用自己的专业护理去安慰年轻的妈妈，奶粉纸尿裤随叫随到，配药喂药讲解清晰，有一回手背手腕两次扎针都“一针见血”，“这个护士阿姨技术真不错。
He could see the aggravation of Le Le's condition made her mother anxious. She had been hoping to comfort her young mother with her professional care, the ready availability of powdered milk paper diapers, the clear instructions for dispensing medicines, and once having two stitches on her wrist.
”妈妈很难得地笑着说了一句话。
"Mom smiled rarely and said a word.
何小敏试着给乐乐多喂点奶，奶瓶里90毫升的配方奶只喝了几口，乐乐就咽不下去了。
He tried to give Le Ledo some milk, the bottle of 90 ml formula drink only a few, Le Le can not swallow.
自身抵抗力是战胜新冠病毒的最有力武器，奶粉喝得少，身体就更虚弱。
Self-resistance is the most powerful weapon against the new crown virus. Milk powder drinks less and the body is weaker.
何小敏想抱抱乐乐，但乐乐明显不喜欢穿着防护服像外星人一样的阿姨，按照操作规范，治疗期间护士也不能把孩子抱在怀里。
He wants to hug Le, but Le apparently doesn't like to wear protective clothing like an alien aunt, and nurses are not allowed to hold a child in their arms during treatment.
1小时，8小时，24小时，48小时，72小时……随着药物进入体内，护理越来越细致，乐乐的病情被遏制住了。
One hour, eight hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours... As the medication entered the body and the care became more intensive, Le Le's condition was contained.
何小敏特别高兴的是，乐乐的喝奶量有一次悄悄从90毫升增加到了120毫升，乐乐全喝了进去。
He is particularly pleased that Le Le's milk consumption once quietly increased from 90 ml to 120 ml, Le Le all drank in.
护士们把乐乐每一次的大便、小便情况都做了详细记录，包括小便的颜色、尿量和大便的形状气味，都在向好的方向发展，哭闹时间也在减少。
The nurses kept detailed records of each stool and urine sample, including urine color, urine output and stool shape smell, all in the right direction, and the crying time was decreasing.
管床医生王亮很欣慰，乐乐2月2日凌晨被送到医院就诊时，他是接诊大夫，诊室外所有人“全副武装”，救护车警灯异常刺眼，诊室内乐乐却非常安静，躺在橘黄色的包被里熟睡，不像要与死神较量的样子。
Bed doctor Wang Liang was very pleased that when Le Le was taken to the hospital in the early hours of February 2, he was the attending doctor, everyone outside the consultation room was "fully armed," the ambulance lights were dazzling, the chamber music was very quiet, lying in a tangerine coverlet, not like death.
从发热门诊到隔离病房，王亮一直在乐乐的病床边，凌晨4点多安排进病房，连接上心电监护，吸上氧，王亮在病房外坐到天亮。
From the fever clinic to the isolation ward, Wang Liang has been in Le Le's bed side, more than 4 a.m. into the ward, connected to electrocardiogram, suction oxygen, Wang Liang sat outside the ward until dawn.
王亮说，自己很少这样忐忑，隔十来分钟看一次墙上的钟，脑子里一遍遍过着各种紧急状况的应对办法，“万一突然不好呢？我得救她。
Wang Liang said that he rarely so perturbed, every ten minutes to see the wall of the clock, mind over and over a variety of emergency response, "in case of sudden bad? I saved her.
”乐乐的情况一天比一天好，又经过5、6天的治疗，各项生理指标趋于正常，CT显示，肺部的炎症也开始吸收。
After five or six days of treatment, the physiologic parameters normalized, and CT showed that inflammation in the lungs began to absorb.
2月15日，经专家审核，乐乐和妈妈都达到出院标准，准备出院。
On February 15, after expert review, Le Le and his mother met the discharge criteria, ready to leave the hospital.
那一天，数十家媒体的镜头在病房外对准妈妈怀里的乐乐，贵州省人民医院儿科副主任汪希珂接到了很多同事和朋友表示祝贺的留言，汪希珂给很多人回复说，湖北前线的同行一个人面对成百上千的病人，跟他们比自己微不足道，只是做了该做的。
On that day, dozens of media cameras were aimed at Le Le in his mother's arms outside the ward, and Wang Xicai, deputy director of pediatrics at Guizhou People's Hospital, received many congratulatory messages from colleagues and friends.
但在汪希珂心里，乐乐很重，“最脆弱的婴儿治愈了，全国打赢这场仗的信心又会增加一些。
But in Vanessa-chien's heart, happiness was great. "The most vulnerable babies are cured, and the confidence of the nation to win the war will increase.
”而对于乐乐的另一位管床医生陈云来说，印象很深的是自己有一天下午在医院宿舍里看微信，治疗信息交流群里突然发出了一张乐乐笑眯眯的照片，“乐乐笑了。
"Chen Yun, another Le Bed doctor, was impressed by the way he read the letter one afternoon in the hospital dorm and suddenly sent out a happy photo of Le Le smiling in the therapeutic community.
”他感觉这是一个历史性的时刻。
He felt that it was a historic moment.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
隔离病房里的两个月女婴。
Two-month-old baby girl in the isolation ward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "隔离病房里的两个月女婴";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; two-month-old girl in the isolation ward;;
var msg_desc = "目前全国被治愈出院的最小患者";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
