武汉之外：多地村镇缺少隔离措施、防疫宣传，县级医院物资短缺。
Wuhan outside: many villages and towns lack isolation measures, vaccination campaigns, county-level hospital material shortages.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
The following article comes from 南方都市报。
The following article comes from the Southern Metropolis Daily.
Author 南方都市报。
Author Southern Metropolis Daily.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
南都，换一种方式。
Nandu, a different way.
武汉市的定点医院已物资缺乏、人满为患，设施更加薄弱的周边县市医院亦面临物资短缺的困境。
The designated hospital in Wuhan is short of materials, full of people, and the nearby county hospitals with weaker facilities are facing the shortage of materials.
25日，武汉封城进入第三日。
25, Wuhan into the third day of the city.
据不完全统计，湖北至少18个城市（县）已采取出入管控、限制市内交通等封城措施。
According to incomplete statistics, at least 18 cities (counties) in Hubei Province have taken measures to control access and restrict traffic in the city.
新型冠状病毒感染确诊速度迅速提高，近四日的新增病例从149人跃增至444人。
The speed of diagnosis of the new coronavirus infection increased rapidly, with the number of new cases jumping from 149 to 444 over the past four days.
累计病例已破千，从21日的440人，增长至23日的1287人。
The cumulative number of cases has broken down from 440 on 21 days to 1,287 on 23 days.
截至发稿时，确诊病例数还在进一步增加。
At the time of writing, the number of confirmed cases was increasing further.
在疫源武汉，此前多位市民都告诉南都，已尽量采取戴口罩、家中消毒等防护措施，也已取消家庭聚会。
In Wuhan, the source of the epidemic, a number of citizens have told Nandu, as far as possible, to wear masks, disinfection and other protective measures, has also cancelled family gatherings.
但武汉周边城市和农村，自我防护意识和防疫措施尚不乐观。
But Wuhan peripheral cities and villages, self-defense awareness and epidemic prevention measures are not optimistic.
1月25日，人民日报官方账号也发文指出，新冠肺炎疫情防控形势严峻，但农村地区防控亟待关注。
January 25, the People's Daily official account number also noted that the situation of New Crown Pneumonia prevention and control situation is serious, but rural areas need urgent attention.
文章称，春节返乡人口多，农村医疗水平有限，农民防控意识相对较弱。
The article said that the Spring Festival returns the population many, the rural medical level is limited, the farmer control consciousness is relatively weak.
据此，人民日报倡议要掌握人员动向、做好排查登记、避免人群聚集、做好入户宣讲检查。
According to this, the People's Daily Initiative should grasp the movement of personnel, do a good job of checking registration, avoiding crowd gathering, and do well in door-to-door propaganda inspection.
虽然一些地区已采取防疫措施，但多位武汉以外地区的居民均向南都表示，周围居民戴口罩的比例并不高。
Although some areas have taken preventive measures, but a number of residents outside Wuhan have indicated to the south that the proportion of people around the wearing of masks is not high.
一些村镇也没有对近期从武汉等地返回的人员，采取任何登记、检测体温、追踪，乃至隔离等措施。
Some towns and villages have not recently returned from Wuhan and other places to take any measures such as registration, temperature testing, tracking, and even isolation measures.
此外，武汉市的定点医院已物资缺乏、人满为患，设施更加薄弱的周边县市医院亦面临物资短缺的困境。
In addition, the designated hospitals in Wuhan are short of materials, full of people, and the surrounding county hospitals, which have even weaker facilities, are facing shortages.
缺防护服、缺护目镜、缺手套、缺口罩……几乎每家医院都在发出这样的声音。
Lack of protective clothing, goggles, missing gloves, gap cover... almost every hospital is making such a noise.
赶上武汉封城前最后一班车23日凌晨2点，武汉市宣布将于当日早10点封城，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Wuhan city in front of the last bus 23 at 2 a.m., Wuhan announced that the day will be closed at 10 a.m., the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
何羡的姐夫赶着武汉封城前的最后一班车，从武汉回到了老家随州。
He envy brother-in-law driving Wuhan before the last bus, from Wuhan back home to Suizhou.
此后，湖北省十多个县市都开始采取出入交通管制的措施。
Since then, more than 10 counties and cities in Hubei Province began to take measures to access traffic control.
何羡说，武汉封城的通知出来的“很突然”，自己的舅妈为了赶在封城之前回到随州，差点去坐黑车，最终在家人的劝阻下才作罢。
The notice came "suddenly," Ho said, as his aunt nearly took a black car to get back to Suizhou in time for the city's closure, only to be dissuaded from doing so by family.
直到武汉封城，何羡身边的人才意识到严重性。
Until Wuhan sealed the city, he envied the people around him realize the seriousness.
“封城通知出来之前，很多人还觉得戴口罩太夸张，是言过其实。
"Before the closure was announced, many people thought wearing masks was exaggerated and exaggerated.
”何羡说，就在21日，身在随州老家的她还看见许多医用口罩静静地躺在药店里，无人光顾。
He said that on the 21st, back in her hometown of Suizhou, she also saw many medical masks lying quietly in pharmacies, unattended.
23日武汉封城消息一出，随州的口罩、酒精、消毒液很快被抢购一空。
Wuhan sealing 23 news, Suizhou masks, alcohol, disinfectant were quickly sold out.
何羡的家离武汉车程两个多小时，不少亲朋邻居都从武汉赶回家过年。
He envied the home from Wuhan more than two hours, many friends and relatives are rushed home from Wuhan to celebrate the New Year.
从外地回家的人费力讲疫情如何严峻形势，家里人却将信将疑。
People returning home from abroad struggle to explain how dire the situation is, but the family is skeptical.
“比如我大伯家，堂兄弟姐妹好像就完全没这个意识。
"At my great aunt's, for instance, my cousins seem to be completely unaware of it.
”何羡无奈道。
He envied helplessness.
据何羡描述，除了公共交通停运，暂时没有看到其他的公共卫生措施。
No other public health measures, other than the suspension of public transport, have been described in the envy.
她从外地买到了消毒液和酒精，家人出门回来都会消毒。
She bought disinfectant and alcohol from other places and disinfected her family when they returned home.
24日，随州市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎指挥部办公室发布情况通报，通报显示至23日24时，随州市共收治发热患者493人，累计新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疑似病例42例，其中新增15例。
24, Suizhou City, the new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia command office issued a briefing, reported that as of 2400, Suizhou, a total of 493 patients, cumulative new-type coronavirus infection of pneumonia suspected 42 cases, including 15 new cases.
落实网格化管理和入户排查、登记22日，湖北省成立新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部，进行专班统筹组织协调。
On February 22, 2008, the Hubei Province established the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection, which was coordinated by a special class.
在防控指挥部24日召开的会议上，湖北省委书记、省新型肺炎防控指挥部指挥长蒋超良提出，要落实网格化管理和入户排查、登记等防控措施，做好相关人员隔离留观和诊疗工作，并加强政策宣传，引导群众居家休息，做好自我防护。
At the meeting of the CPPCC on the 24th, Jiang Jieliang, secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee and commander of the new provincial command for pneumonia prevention and control, proposed to implement grid management and home inspection, registration and other preventive and control measures, do a good job of isolation, diagnosis and treatment, and strengthen policy publicity, guiding people to rest and self-defense.
湖北各州、市也成立了防控指挥机构，设置了定点医疗机构。
Hubei provinces and cities have also set up command organs and designated medical institutions for prevention and control.
英山县、宣恩县等均由各自的肺炎防控指挥部统一指挥领导防控工作。
Yingshan County, Xuan County, etc. are under the unified command of the Pneumonia Command to lead the prevention and control work.
比如，1月22日，咸宁市崇阳县政府组织实施《崇阳县新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控工作方案》，要求以最快的速度摸排返乡人员情况将返乡人员名单、手机号、回崇阳时间、密切接触人员名单等信息，上报乡政府汇总。
For example, on January 22, the Chongyang county government in Xiangning implemented the "Prevention and Control Programme of Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection in Chongyang County," which requires that the list of returning persons, mobile phone numbers, time of returning to Chongyang and the list of close contacts be mapped out as soon as possible.
并要求各乡镇组织重点人员，到本村村级卫生室测量体温，每天一测，持续时间不少于两周；县直各单位对武汉返乡干部职工一律在家监测体温。
Each township organization key personnel, to the village-level health room temperature measurement, daily measurement, duration of not less than two weeks; the county union units return to Wuhan cadres and staff are all home temperature monitoring.
此外，各村的小卖部、超市、早点摊、卖菜摊，于1月24日晚6点年三十至大年初八停止营业，并且禁止各村搞玩龙灯、踩龙船活动。
In addition, village canteens, supermarkets, breakfast stands and vegetable stalls were closed from 6: 30 p.m. to 8: 00 p.m. on 24 January.
村镇防疫措施有限，居民希望加强宣传据百度地图慧眼-百度迁徙监控到的数据，1月22日，即武汉封城的前一天，迁入孝感的人口中，51.5%来自武汉方向。
Villages and towns have limited access to epidemic prevention, and residents want to step up publicity Baidu map Huei-Baidu migration monitoring data, January 22, the day before the city was closed to Wuhan, 51.5% of the people moved in from the direction of Wuhan.
除了孝感，黄冈、鄂州、仙桃、咸宁、随州、黄石等地，当天也有超20%人从武汉方向迁入。
In addition to filial piety, Huanggang, Huangzhou, Xiangning, Suizhou, Huang Shi, and other places, on the same day more than 20% of people moved in from Wuhan direction.
与此同时，武汉多个村镇的居民均向南都表示，目前当地对疫情采取的措施极为有限。
Meanwhile, residents of several towns and villages in Wuhan have indicated to the south that local measures to deal with the outbreak are extremely limited.
王先生几天前从武汉返乡过年，途径各个农村戴口罩的人并不多，“大概十个里有两个”。
Mr. Wang returned from Wuhan a few days ago to celebrate the New Year, through the countryside wearing masks are not many, "about two out of ten."
随着疫情的扩散以及信息的披露，据他观察，周围人带口罩的比例有上升趋势，但也仅达到“就10个里边4、5个”的程度。
As the epidemic spread and information came to light, he observed a rising trend in the number of masks around, but only to the extent of "4 or 5 out of 10."
虽然周边的人都在讨论疫情，在他看来，防范意识并没有跟上。
Although people around him were discussing the outbreak, in his view, the sense of precaution had not kept pace.
他告诉南都，周围的邻居虽然大多会在家采取消毒措施，但多数都是用醋或普通的消毒液，比较不科学、不专业。
He told Nandu that although most of his neighbors would disinfect their homes, most of them were using vinegar or common disinfectant, which was unscientific and unprofessional.
据华中科技大学武汉同济医院发布《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗快速指南》，根据对SARS冠状病毒和MERS冠状病毒的研究，冠状病毒对热敏感，保持56℃30分钟，乙醚、75%乙醇、含氯消毒剂、过氧乙酸和氯仿等脂溶剂均可有效灭活病毒。
According to Wuhan Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, the coronavirus is thermally sensitive and remains stable at 56 ℃ for 30 minutes. According to the research on SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus, the coronavirus can be effectively inactivated by ether, 75% ethanol, chlorine disinfectant, peroxyacetic acid and chloroform.
氯已定不能有效灭活病毒。
Chlorine is not effective in inactivating the virus.
住在湖北恩施某村的小武不久前从武汉回村，“我从回家到现在十天整，没有收到过任何宣传、调查、登记。
Xiao Wu, who lives in Enshi village in Hubei Province, recently returned from Wuhan. "I have not received any publicity, investigation or registration since I returned home ten days ago.
”她告诉南都，家人所在的村民群里，也仅有一些“不痛不痒”的信息。
She told Nandu that there was only "lukewarm" information in the group of villagers where the family was living.
“农村真的是宣传盲区，特别是湖北农村，真的是武汉返乡人群特别多的地方”。
"The countryside is really propaganda blind area, especially Hubei countryside, is really Wuhan returns the crowd the place which the crowd is particularly many."
据她介绍，腊月二十九（23日）从武汉返乡的一些居民，仍在参加聚会，并未采取自我隔离措施。
According to her, some residents returning from Wuhan on the 29th of July are still attending the gathering and have not taken measures to isolate themselves.
住在黄石市大治市某镇的居民也告诉南都，当地几乎没有对疫情采取宣传措施，“大家都是看电视新闻知道的”。
Residents of a town in Daji, Huangshi, also told Nandu that there was little publicity about the outbreak and that "everyone knows about it on the TV news."
一个好一些的消息是，一些地区较为及时的采取了相应措施。
On a more positive note, some regions have taken measures in a more timely manner.
例如，枝江市在22日就发布了“致全市居民的一封信”，并在其中介绍，病毒危害，个人防护措施等。
For example, Zhijiang City on the 22nd issued a "letter to the city residents," and in it, introduced the virus, personal protective measures, etc.
当地一位居民也告诉南都，枝江市也会登记从武汉返回的人员。
A local resident also told Nandu that Zhijiang would also register people returning from Wuhan.
武汉周边医院防护物资紧缺1月24日晚上，和除夕的拜年祝福一同刷屏朋友圈的，还有这样一条消息：“武汉紧急求援！”文中介绍：武汉多家医院物资紧张，可能只够维持3-5天，目前医院请求紧急支援。
Wuhan hospitals around the shortage of protective materials January 24 night, and New Year's Eve with the blessing of the screen friends, there is also such a message: "Wuhan urgent appeal for help!" Wuhan, a number of hospitals may be limited to supplies, may only last 3-5 days, the hospital is now requesting emergency support.
包括协和医院、同济医院等武汉市发热患者定点诊疗医院在内的多家医院请求外界捐赠医护人员急需的护目镜、口罩、防护服等防护物资。
Many hospitals, including Concorde Hospital and Tongji Hospital, have requested donations of protective materials such as goggles, masks and protective clothing, which are urgently needed by medical staff.
物资紧缺的消息被多家媒体转载。
The news of the shortage of materials was reproduced by many media.
武汉一家三甲医院的医生此前也告诉南都，因同事感染他要去顶班，但没有防护服，只能自行寻找、购买。
Wuhan doctors of a three-A hospital also told Nandu, because his colleagues infected him to go to the replacement, but no protective clothing, can only find, buy.
事实上，不仅武汉缺乏物资，和武汉一同封城的其他城市，也处在物资紧缺的境地。
In fact, Wuhan is not only a lack of supplies, and Wuhan together with other cities, also in a material shortage.
24日，孝感疾控中心发布公告，开启爱心捐赠通道接受防护物资。
On the 24th, filial piety disease control center issued a notice, open the charitable donation channel to accept protective materials.
汉川、荆州等多地医院也对外发布了接受捐赠的信息。
Hanchuan, Jingzhou and other multi-local hospitals have also issued information on the acceptance of donations.
武汉市的定点医院已经物资缺乏、人满为患，设施更加薄弱的周边县市医院情况如何？1月22日，孝感第一人民医院的官网发布“安全大查房 重点加强对新型冠状病毒肺炎的防控工作”的新闻稿，文中照片显示，参与查房的医护人员身穿白大褂，在检查重点区域时才戴上了医用外科口罩。
The hospital in Wuhan, which is already short of supplies, is overcrowded and has weak facilities, issued a press release on January 22, the official website of the First People's Hospital of Xiaoyan issued a press release on the prevention and control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
文章称，检查组“叮嘱医护人员要带好帽子、口罩、眼罩和防护衣，加强对自身的防护”。
The article said the inspection team "urged medical staff to wear hats, masks, eye masks and protective clothing to strengthen their own protection."
湖北宜昌某医院的一名医生告诉南都，目前该医院急诊没有防护服，只能穿一次性手术服，且必须反复使用，护目镜、口罩等物资也紧缺。
A doctor at a hospital in Yichang, Hubei province, told Nandu that the hospital had no protective clothing for emergency use and had to wear disposable surgical costumes.
“我们是一天发一只口罩，基本上还有三天就到没有口罩使用的状态了。
"We're getting a mask a day, and basically three days from now we're going to be without one," he said.
”他说。
'he said.
值得关注的是，除了防护物资，病毒检测试剂盒也处于紧缺状态。
It is noteworthy that, in addition to protective materials, virus detection kits are also in short supply.
23日晚间，国家卫健委专家组成员高福在接受采访时，呈现了来自武汉一线医生发来的消息：收治的病人无法进行及时的病原检测，导致交叉感染存在。
On the evening of May 23, Gao Fu, a member of the national health committee, gave a message from a first-line doctor in Wuhan that patients receiving treatment were unable to undergo timely pathogen testing, leading to cross-infection.
封城后，各地网友纷纷转发医用物资短缺的消息。
After the closure of the city, netizens everywhere forward medical supplies shortage of news.
亦有网友自发成立物资对接群，希望帮助医院、患者寻找生产厂商、物流公司等。
There are also netizens spontaneously set up material docking group, hope to help hospitals, patients find manufacturers, logistics companies and so on.
接受南都采访的多位居民中，有人采取了自我隔离的措施，防止传染给家人；亦有人要求家人尽量呆在家，不要出门。
Some of the residents interviewed in Nandu resorted to self-isolation measures to prevent transmission to their families; others also asked their families to stay at home as much as possible and not to go out.
但何羡说，家中老人仍然要出去串门，自己只能极力劝阻、做好消毒。
But he said the old man still had to go out to visit the door and he could only try to dissuade and disinfect himself.
（文章采访对象为化名）南方都市报（nddaily）原创报道南都记者 马嘉璐 宋承翰 蒋小天 实习生 马铭隆 李裕鸿* 南方都市报（nddaily）原创内容未经授权，不得转载。
The South Metropolitan Daily reported that the original content of the South Metropolis Daily was not allowed to be reproduced without authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉之外：多地村镇缺少隔离措施、防疫宣传，县级医院物资短缺。
Wuhan outside: many villages and towns lack isolation measures, vaccination campaigns, county-level hospital material shortages.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉之外：多地村镇缺少隔离措施、防疫宣传，县级医院物资短缺";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; outside Wuhan: A lack of segregation, vaccination campaigns in many towns and villages, and a shortage of & quot; at county hospitals.
var msg_desc = "武汉周边城市和农村，自我防护意识和防疫措施尚不乐观。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
