特别报道 | 疫情过后，“共享员工”模式还可持续吗？。
Has the "shared employee" model been sustainable since the outbreak?
刘娉婷。
Ms. PING-TING LAU
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
记者 | 刘娉婷编辑 | 王姗姗今年20岁的葛恒志是西贝餐饮上海森兰商都店的服务员。
Ms. Liu Ping-ting Liu, 20, is a waitress at Sen Lan Shopping Mall in Shanghai at the age of 20.
受到疫情的影响，从大年三十开始，西贝的堂食生意明显下滑，2月3日西贝全国400多家门店停业。
Affected by the outbreak, from the beginning of the 30th year, Xibei Tang food business declined significantly, February 3, more than 400 stores in the West Bay closed down.
葛恒志和他的二十多名同事，每天到店后的工作只剩下帮忙外卖的打包和日常培训来打发时间。
Mr. Ge and more than two dozen of his colleagues spent their days at the store helping with take-out packaging and daily training.
2月4日上午，门店店长召集所有员工开了一个会。
On the morning of February 4, the store manager called together all the employees for a meeting.
“问我们是不是想要加入到盒马鲜生的共享员工的项目，可以自愿报名参加。
"Ask us if we want to join a box of shared staff projects and volunteer to join.
”在此之前，葛恒志甚至都没有听说过盒马，“也是报名后去微博上了解了一下，这家生鲜超市貌似挺火的。
Before that, Mr Ge had not even heard of a box of horses, "and had gone to Weibo to check it out after signing up.
”第二天葛恒志就和店里同事共11个人去了盒马鲜生的金桥店。
"The next day, Mr. Gerhardt and his colleagues went to a box at Ma's Golden Bridge.
他们先是接受了一个上午的企业文化和工作流程的培训，然后办理入职手续。
They first received a morning's training in corporate culture and workflows and then went through the onboarding process.
葛恒志被分配到后场仓库负责外卖订单的拣货工作。
Gehengzhi was assigned to the back yard warehouse to pick up the take-out orders.
当时他并没有想到，这份新工作会让他每天至少要走3万步。
It had not occurred to him then that his new job would require him to walk at least thirty thousand steps a day.
盒马北京红莲店云海肴员工接受上岗前培训。
Boxes Ma Beijing Honglian store Yun Hai staff receive pre-service training.
在线下餐饮、酒店等服务行业受到疫情冲击而没有生意可做时，生鲜电商们却迎来了一轮业务订单量的激增。
While the online catering, hotel and other service industries have been hit by the epidemic and have no business to do, fresh electricity manufacturers have experienced a surge in business orders.
九曳供应链对《第一财经》YiMagazine透露，今年春节期间他们服务的生鲜电商客户——如每日优鲜、京东、天猫超市——需求量相比去年都上涨了300%。
Nine trolley supply chains told First Finance Yi Magazine that demand for the fresh electric customers they serve this Spring Festival - such as Daily Premium, Jingdong and Tian Cat Supermarkets - is up 300 percent from last year.
生意火了，拣货员、打包员和骑手很快就不够用了。
Business was booming, and the packers, packers and riders soon ran out of supplies.
以一种短期的人员流动用工协议促成的“共享员工”，正是此次在疫情中诞生出的一种新的用工方式。
"Shared staff," facilitated by a short-term staff mobility agreement, is a new way of working in the midst of the epidemic.
在两周多的时间里，包括餐饮、文娱、百货、商场、汽车租赁等行业的32家企业的1800多名“共享员工”加入盒马。
More than 1,800 people from 32 companies in catering, entertainment, department stores, shopping malls and car rental have joined the box for more than two weeks.
上海地区另一家生鲜电商叮咚买菜，也通过与10多家餐饮企业的共享，收获了1000多临时工。
Shanghai another fresh electric business Jingdong buy vegetables, also through more than 10 catering enterprises to share, harvest more than 1000 temporary workers.
云海肴员工入驻盒马。
Staff from Yun Hai are in the box.
如何实现“共享”到目前为止，共享员工的流行也不过才20天。
How to "share" so far, the popularity of sharing employees has only been around for 20 days.
这种在特殊时期出现的临时用工方式，“共享”形式较为灵活，还未受到任何法律层面的监管。
This form of temporary employment, "shared" in special periods, is more flexible and has not been regulated at any legal level.
叮咚买菜对《第一财经》YiMagazine表示，此次叮咚和餐饮企业的合作包括两种形式，一种是B2B模式——叮咚和餐饮企业在人力、食材、供应链方面达成战略合作，人力层面的协助是其中一种短期合作，这些员工的劳务关系依然属于餐饮企业。
Ding Dong is telling First Finance Yi Magazine that the Ding Dong-dong cooperation with catering companies includes two forms, the B2B model - Dong-dong and restaurant enterprises in manpower, food, supply chain strategic cooperation, human-level assistance is one of the short-term cooperation, these workers labor relations still belong to catering enterprises.
随着疫情的发展，叮咚将灵活安排这些员工工作的天数。
As the epidemic progresses, Dong-dong will flexibly arrange the number of days these employees work.
而第二种属于B2C模式，即叮咚直接与员工签短时雇佣合同。
And the second belongs to the B2C pattern, that is, Ding Dong directly signed with the staff short-term employment contract.
盒马鲜生的共享用工模式与叮咚买菜相似。
Boxed horse fresh share of the work pattern is similar to Dongdong buy vegetables.
盒马鲜生位于上海浦东一家门店的店长对《第一财经》YiMagazine证实，目前门店也直接面向社会个人招聘，应聘者需拥有B类健康证和春节期间未离沪证明，薪酬为27元/每小时——略高于共享员工的时薪标准。
The store manager at a Shanghai-based Pudong store confirmed to First Finance Yi Magazine that the store also directly targets individual applicants, who must have a B-card and a salary of 27 yuan per hour during the Spring Festival, which is slightly higher than the hourly rate for shared employees.
“现在店里很缺人，只要符合这两个条件又肯吃苦的就能来。
"There is a shortage of men in the shop, and those who meet these two conditions and are willing to work hard can come.
”这位店长说。
"said the inn-keeper.
共享员工的B2B模式，并不是由零售和餐饮之间直接签订员工劳务关系转让合同，而是仍需要借助一个“第三方”来完成用工协议，因为很多餐饮企业并不具备人力资源的业务和人力资源派遣的服务业务。
The B2B model of sharing staff is not a contract between retail and catering companies to transfer employee labor relations directly, but still requires a "third party" to complete the employment agreement, as many restaurants do not have the human resources business and human resources dispatch service business.
蓝领公寓创业公司安歆集团旗下的创新人力资源公司扮演了这个“第三方”的角色。
Blue-collar condo start-up Anshin Group's innovative human resources company played the role of a "third party."
安歆公寓CHO沈丽华告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine，安歆公寓与叮咚买菜联合向餐饮行业发出了“共享员工”的招募倡议，2月1日正式启动餐饮行业与叮咚的共享业务。
Yan-shin apartment CHO Li-hua told First Finance Yi Magazine, Ain Xin and Dong-dong to the restaurant industry issued a "share staff" recruitment initiative, February 1 officially launched the catering industry and Dongdong share business.
安歆通过自己的蓝领公寓项目，本身就对接了一批劳动力密集型企业。
Anshin through their own blue-collar apartment project, itself docked a number of labor-intensive enterprises.
但是刚开始，招募共享员工的沟通不理想。
But at first, the communication between recruiting and sharing employees was not ideal.
“餐饮员工对这种模式不熟悉，HR没有足够的话语权说服老板，所以持观望态度。
"Restaurant staff are not familiar with this model and HR does not have enough voice to persuade the boss, so take a wait-and-see attitude.
盒马的共享员工合作起来后，再加上西贝老板的发言，很多老板才开始行动了。
After the box of shared employees teamed up, and Siebel's boss spoke, many bosses began to act.
”沈丽华说。
"said Shen Lihua.
接下来，企业方和叮咚买菜与拥有资质的安歆集团分别签订服务合同，再由安歆集团与餐饮企业之间达成人员外包的服务协议。
Next, the enterprise and Dingdong buy vegetables and have qualifications of the Group signed a service contract, and then by Anshin Group and catering enterprises to conclude outsourcing services agreement.
“相当于在疫情期间，餐饮企业把他们的人包给我们，由我们输出给到叮咚买菜，”沈丽华解释说，这种模式中，给员工发放工资的环节也是由叮咚买菜先结算给安歆集团，再由安歆支付给临时用工的餐饮企业，这样做就是为了解决资金流转、税务合规等风险。
"During the epidemic, catering companies outsource their people to Dong-dong," explains Shen. "In this model, employees are paid by Dong-dong to Ain Xin Group and then to Ain Xin to catering companies, which address cash flow, tax compliance and other risks.
12小时夜班/每天3万步在分配新岗位时，安歆集团会优先建议选择安排厨房员工，因为“他们对于菜品的新鲜程度非常清楚，具备分拣能力，但具体的排班和岗位分配由零售企业自主决定。
12-hour shift work / 30,000 steps a day When assigning new jobs, Ishin gives priority to kitchen staff because "they know the freshness of the food and have the ability to sort it out, but the scheduling and job assignments are left to the discretion of the retailer."
”这些“转型”后的共享员工被分配的任务，基本都是能够快速上手的工种。
These "transformational" shared employees are assigned tasks that are essentially tasks that can be performed quickly.
盒马鲜生门店的骑手团队中，并没有使用共享员工，因为做骑手就需要对周围配送的环境具备一定的熟悉程度，对配送路径要有规划经验，而这种经验并非能在短时间内完成。
Sharing staff is not used in the rider teams at box horse stores, as riders need to be familiar with the surrounding delivery environment and have planning experience in delivery routes that cannot be accomplished in a short period of time.
24岁的安徽人李佳，原先在莆田餐厅上海七宝店做服务员。
Li Jia, a 24-year-old Anhui, used to work as a waitress at Putian Restaurant in Shanghai.
今年春节她没有回家过年，而是想趁假期餐饮业旺季，继续在店里从大年三十工作到年初三，四天时间就能拿到近千元的加班费。
She didn't go home for the Spring Festival, but wanted to take advantage of the holiday season to continue to work in the store from the 30th year to the beginning of the new year, four days can get close to 1000 yuan overtime pay.
但是疫情打乱了李佳所有的计划。
But the outbreak upset all Li Jia's plans.
整个春节假期，餐厅关门歇业，她每天只能“躺在宿舍里，什么也做不了”。
During the Spring Festival, when the restaurant was closed, she could only "lie in her dorm room and do nothing."
2月5日，李佳通过餐厅报名加入叮咚买菜做共享员工。
On Feb. 5, Li Jia signed up through the restaurant to join Dingdong Buy as a shared staff.
叮咚先给每个共享员工发了一份培训视频。
Ding Dong first sends a training video to each shared employee.
两天后，一辆大巴将这家莆田餐厅的十几个店员送到了叮咚买菜位于上海松江的大仓。
Two days later, a bus took a dozen shop assistants from the Putian restaurant to Dingdong, a warehouse in Songjiang, Shanghai.
李佳觉得这份新工作没有什么难度，只需要将橙子、苹果等按个数要求，挑拣出来包装好。
Li Jia feels this new job is not difficult, just need to orange, apple and so on according to a number of requirements, pick out and pack.
她是仓库流水线操作的一部分——一份水果被包装好后，由她传递给后面一位负责称重的同事，相比于在餐厅内工作时还可以来回走动，这活儿显得有些枯燥。
She was part of the warehouse production line - a piece of fruit was packaged and passed on to a colleague who weighed it, which was a bit dull compared to walking back and forth while working in a restaurant.
“以前在餐厅也是一直站着，习惯了也不感觉到累，其实有一个地方能让我赚点钱挺好的。
"I used to stand in the restaurant, used not to feel tired, in fact there is a place where I can earn some money is good.
”李佳说。
"said Li Jia.
李佳的这份新工作，最开始被安排的是晚上八点上工、12小时制的夜班，次日早上8点下班后，叮咚会再用大巴车把人送回莆田餐厅的员工宿舍睡觉。
Li Jia's new job was initially scheduled for night shifts of 8 p.m. and 12 hours, and the next morning, after work at 8 a.m., Dong-dong would take people back to Putian Restaurant staff dormitory to sleep.
连着上完三个夜班后能轮休一天，接着会再轮两天白班，仍旧是12小时。
Three night shifts could be followed by a day off, followed by two more day shifts, which would still be 12 hours.
然后就是新一轮的夜班。
Then there is the new night shift.
叮咚买菜与共享员工会每周结算一次工资，每小时的薪酬为25元。
Ding Dong Buy and Share Employees will be paid once a week for $25 an hour.
很快，李佳即将获得她的第一笔共享员工的收入。
Soon, Li Jia will be earning her first share of the employees' income.
共享员工在叮咚买菜的松江大仓库里挑拣水果。
Sharing staff pick out fruit in the big Songjiang Warehouse where Dongdong buys vegetables.
葛恒志对新工作的评价是“挺有趣的”。
Mr Ge's assessment of the new job was "quite interesting."
他在盒马负责对外卖订单的拣货，所以工作时间都是在白天。
He was in charge of picking out orders in boxes, so he worked all day long.
每天上午8:00一到岗，就开始拿着扫码枪在货架间来回地跑步穿梭，经过几天的适应期，他已能熟练快速地找到日用品、水果等物品具体摆放的位置。
Every morning at 8: 00 a.m., he began to run back and forth among the shelves with his sweeper. After a few days of adaptation, he was able to find the exact location of daily necessities, fruits, etc.
盒马鲜生对于拣货员的工作量是按“每半小时内完成的订单数”来考核。
Boxed Horse fresh to pick up the workload of the staff is "every half an hour to complete the singular" to assess.
刚入职的共享员工，要求每半小时完成8个订单的完整拣货，而盒马对老员工的考核标准是这个数字的两倍——半小时要完成17-20单。
Newcomers are required to complete the full selection of eight orders every half-hour, while Boxer evaluates older workers at twice that figure - 17-20 orders in half an hour.
平均1分半钟要完成一单。
An average of one and a half minutes to complete.
“这是个勤快活。
"It's hard work.
我上手比较快，前两天就达到了半小时做10单，现在能完成16单。
I am a fast hand, the first two days have reached half an hour to do 10, can now complete 16.
做得快会有一些激励政策。
There will be some incentive to do so quickly.
”葛恒志觉得，在盒马做拣货员，有点像过去在西贝做传菜员，“传菜员是把菜传给消费者，在盒马是把货拣好了给打包员，本质上是一样的。
Mr. Gerhardt felt like a steward in a box of horses, a little like he used to be a dish teller in Sebe. "The teller passed on the food to the consumers, and in the box the horses were picked up and given to the packer, essentially the same.
”但现在，他要走的路可比过去要长多了——平均每天至少要走3万步，相当于步行了20公里，而且还要小跑前进。
But now he has to walk much longer - an average of at least 30,000 steps a day, equivalent to a 20-kilometer walk - and a trot.
共享员工模式可持续吗？从李佳到葛恒志，他们的新工作从劳动强度上，都远大于过去在餐厅的工作。
From Li Jia to Ge Hengzhi, their new jobs are far more labour-intensive than they used to be in restaurants.
很多人愿意选择以这种共享方式临时转岗，只是念及需要一份薪水养活自己。
Many people would prefer to be transferred temporarily on this shared basis, mindful of the need for a salary to support themselves.
“其实很多年轻人不愿意吃苦，可能这儿强度太大，干几天就走了，流动率还挺高。
"In fact, many young people do not want to suffer, perhaps here is too strong, a few days to leave, the flow rate is quite high.
”一位盒马门店的店长对于目前这批共享员工的持久性，表示出不乐观。
A boxed store manager was not optimistic about the durability of the current group of shared employees.
事实上，有些餐饮企业的员工，一听说叮咚买菜排的是夜班，还没干就选择放弃了。
In fact, some restaurant employees, as soon as they heard that Dong-dong platoon is the night shift, not dry on the choice to give up.
当然，餐饮企业那端也有顾虑。
Of course, there are concerns at the restaurant end.
新工作一旦薪水高、就业环境稳定，多少都会影响到自己员工的职业选择，日后不愿意再回到餐厅工作也不是没有可能。
A new job, once well-paid and in a stable employment environment, can affect the career choices of employees, and it is not impossible to return to the restaurant in the future.
“从实际来说，这个问题的答案挺无解的。
"In practical terms, the answer to this question is rather inexplicable.
到目前为止，还没有发生员工流失的情况。
So far, there has been no staff turnover.
”安歆集团CHO沈丽华分析说，餐饮企业中，品牌创建时间较长、老板也比较重视员工关怀和员工福利，员工在企业已经有依赖、品牌吸引力和企业忠诚度，同时零售企业和餐饮在工作内容有很大差异，“所以不排除很多员工可能还是更喜欢自己的本职工作。
In restaurants, says CHO Shen Lihua, a restaurant company that has a long history of brand building, a boss who values employee care and employee benefits, employees who are already dependent on the company, brand appeal and corporate loyalty, and retail companies and restaurants differ widely in content, "so it's not excluded that many employees may still prefer their jobs.
”继一批生鲜电商最先启用共享员工之后，沃尔玛、永辉等线下零售卖场也纷纷尝试这种新的招工方式。
Wal-Mart, Wing Fai and other offline retail outlets have also tried the new method of recruiting, following a spate of live telecoms companies that first started sharing staff.
但也有一些存在用工需求的零售企业仍在观望，认为“共享员工”模式还没渡过它的测试期。
But there are also retail companies that are still waiting to see if the "shared employee" model has passed its test run.
为了使得共享员工获得必要的工伤保障，沈丽华的建议是雇佣共享员工的企业一方，给共享员工办理“雇主责任”保险，规避工作场所员工工伤、也给共享餐饮企业和员工更多安全保障。
To give employees the necessary protection against work-related injuries, Ms. Shen recommends hiring companies that share employees, insuring employees on 'employer responsibility', avoiding work-related injuries at the workplace, and providing greater security for shared-meal companies and employees.
”沈丽华说。
"said Shen Lihua.
叮咚买菜与共享员工签署的用工合同，时间为三个月。
Dingdong buy vegetables and share the staff signed the employment contract, the time is three months.
等疫情过去后，李佳就要回到原先的莆田餐厅工作，但她表示，未来想利用双休日继续在叮咚买菜的仓库中做分拣员。
When the outbreak is over, Li will return to her former Putian restaurant, but says she wants to use her two-day break to continue working as a sorter in the warehouse where she buys food.
据沈丽华透露，一些餐厅企业如今已经在内部讨论，是否能利用共享模式获得一种更为灵活的用工方式。
Some restaurant companies have been discussing internally whether they can use the sharing model to get a more flexible approach, according to Shen.
但她同时也提醒，这种在特殊时期所形成的试验性的用工机制，在操作上需要更加重视用工流程的合规性问题。
However, she also cautioned that the experimental employment mechanism formed during the special period needs to pay more attention to the compliance of the work process.
比如，以餐饮企业为例，其自身被许可的业务范畴内，其实并不具备“劳务输出”这一条。
For example, catering enterprises, their own licensed business scope, in fact does not have "labor export" this article.
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 疫情过后，“共享员工”模式还可持续吗？。
Has the "shared employee" model been sustainable since the outbreak?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 疫情过后，“共享员工”模式还可持续吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Is the "shared employee" model sustainable after the epidemic?;
var msg_desc = "共享用工是在特殊时期出现的临时用工方式，“共享”形式较为灵活，还未受到任何法律层面的监管。
var msg _ desc = & quot; shared work was a temporary form of employment that occurred at a particular time, and "shared" forms were flexible and not regulated at any level of law.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
