防医院内感染，是一场“苦战”——专访华山医院“医院感染管理科”主任杨帆教授。
Prevention of hospital infection, is a "bitter war" - special interview Huashan Hospital "Hospital Infection Management Section," Director of Professor Yang Fan.
黄祺。
Wangqi.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
有时候半夜突然想到某个可能的漏洞，惊出一身冷汗。
Sometimes in the middle of the night I think of a possible loophole and start sweating cold.
记者 |黄　祺抗击新冠肺炎疫情的紧要关头，医院不能失守。
WHEN WONG WONG was at the heart of the fight against Newcastle Pneumonia, hospitals could not afford to fail.
中国疾控中心2月17日的一份研究报告显示，全国已有3019名医务人员感染了新型冠状病毒，其中包括1716名确诊病例，导致5人死亡。
A report released on February 17 by the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) showed that 3,019 medical personnel nationwide had contracted the coronavirus, including 1,716 confirmed cases, resulting in five deaths.
感染的医务人员中80%以上在湖北省，疫情早期湖北不少医护人员因接诊患者而感染。
More than 80 percent of those infected were in Hubei province, where many medical workers contracted the disease during the early stages of the epidemic.
截止发稿，公开报道感染新冠病毒死亡的医护人员，已经有8人。
By the cut-off date, eight health-care workers had publicly reported new crown-virus deaths.
这个数据，让湖北以外的其他地区也倍感焦急——院内感染，是传染病防控中的大忌。
This data, let the outside of Hubei also feel anxious - nosocomial infection, is a major bogey in infectious disease control.
迄今，北京和天津都已经发生了院内感染事件。
So far, hospital infections have occurred in Beijing and Tianjin.
北京大学人民医院内，一位长期住院的老年病人和子女共三人被确诊。
At Peking University's People's Hospital, three elderly patients and their children were hospitalized for a long time.
目前北大人民医院内，老年科病区患者及医护等人员共22人进行集中医学观察；病人可能接触的肾透析患者142人进行集中医学观察。
At present, 22 patients from geriatric patients and medical staff in Peking University People's Hospital underwent intensive medical observation, and 142 patients with possible renal dialysis patients received intensive medical observation.
熟悉17年前非典历史的人，对北京大学人民医院一定印象深刻，北大人民医院因9个病房感染SARS，最后于2003 年4月23日启动全院隔离。
Those familiar with the history of SARS 17 years ago must have been impressed with the Peking University People's Hospital, which was finally opened on 23 April 2003 for contracting SARS in nine wards.
北大人民医院共隔离1554人，包括工作人员942人、病人293人、陪住205人、家属宿舍楼109人，其他人员（没能在指定23日24时之前撤离的几个“号贩子”）5人。
A total of 1,554 people were quarantined at Pattani Hospital, including 942 staff members, 293 patients, 205 accompanying persons, 109 family quarters, and five others (several "traffickers" who were unable to evacuate by 2400 hours on the 23rd).
湖北省内的疫情防控仍处于最艰巨的时刻，而全国其他地区，防控形势远远没有到可以松懈的时候。
The prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Province is still at its most difficult moment, while in the rest of the country the situation is far from being allowed to relax.
医院内的感染防控，是疫情防控的重中之重。
Infection prevention and control in hospitals is a top priority for disease prevention and control.
杨帆教授《新民周刊》记者2月20日专访了复旦大学附属华山医院医院感染管理科主任、抗生素研究所教授杨帆。
Yang Fan, a reporter for Xinmin Weekly, visited Yang Fan, director of infection management section of Fudan University Hospital and professor of antibiotics institute on February 20.
华山医院感染病学科在全国专科排名中名列前茅，由于常年接诊来自全国各地的疑难感染性疾病，华山医院对医院感染管理的要求也特别高。
Huashan Hospital infection disease in the national ranking among the top specialty, because of the perennial treatment of difficult infectious diseases from all over the country, Huashan Hospital on hospital infection management requirements are particularly high.
从武汉出现传染病的消息传出开始，医院感染管理科就投入到应对传染病紧急事件的战斗中。
From Wuhan, the emergence of infectious diseases from the news, the Hospital Infection Management Section has been engaged in the fight against infectious disease emergencies.
说起一个多月的体会，杨帆主任说：有时候半夜醒来会突然想到某个可能存在的疏漏，惊出一身冷汗。
Speaking of more than a month's experience, Yang Fan said: sometimes wake up in the middle of the night will suddenly think of a possible omission, scared a cold sweat.
尽管医务处、院感科会同各部门根据疫情变化不断细化管理制度和防控流程，医院几乎将全力投入防疫，但医院领导和各职能部门丝毫不敢松懈。
Although the medical and sensory departments and departments will continue to refine their management systems and control procedures in the light of the changing epidemic situation, the hospitals will devote themselves almost exclusively to epidemic prevention, but the hospital leadership and functional departments will not relent.
“抓特务”，找到每一个患者《新民周刊》：现在每个人出门都戴着口罩，医院里发热门诊医护人员也按照最高标准防护。
"Catch the Secret Service" and find every patient Newsweek: Everyone is now wearing a mask when they go out, and hospital fever clinic staff are protected to the highest standards.
我们回想2003年SARS期间，防护级别没有现在这么高。
We recall that during SARS in 2003, the level of protection was not as high as it is now.
为什么我们采取如此严格的措施？杨帆：目前的新冠肺炎防控，主要策略是限制外出、减少聚集和加强防护。
Why do we take such strict measures? Yang Fan: At present, the main strategy for the prevention and control of New Crown Pneumonia is to limit travel, reduce agglomeration and strengthen protection.
后者包括所有人外出戴口罩和医务人员按照不同暴露风险进行防控。
The latter includes all people going out to wear masks and medical staff to control different exposure risks.
疫情发展到今天，新冠病毒传染性超出了所有人的预测。
To this day, the new crown virus is more contagious than anyone could have predicted.
公平讲，这个疾病出现至今也不过3个月，我们的认识有个过程。
To be fair, the disease has been around for only three months now, and we have a process of understanding it.
在早期，许多专业人士对形势的判断也比现在乐观。
In the early years, many professionals were more optimistic about the situation than they are now.
湖北疫情恶化，除了当地应对失误，也由于初期对疾病传染性认识不足有关，隔离不及时和医务人员防护不足，造成新冠肺炎不仅在社区广泛传播，还发生大量患者和医务人员院内感染。
The worsening of the epidemic in Hubei Province, in addition to local response failures, was also due to an initial lack of awareness of infectious diseases, delayed isolation and inadequate protection of medical personnel, resulting in the widespread spread of New Crown Pneumonia not only in the community, but also in large numbers among patients and hospital staff.
所以基于惨痛教训，各级政府部门和医院均要求严防院内感染，一定要做好防护。
Therefore, based on the bitter experience, all levels of government departments and hospitals are required to strictly prevent hospital infection, must do a good job of protection.
同时，我们现在的物资条件远胜于当年，有条件以更高标准保证医务人员安全。
At the same time, our material conditions are far better than they were then, and we are in a position to guarantee the safety of medical personnel to a higher standard.
《新民周刊》：像上海这样的城市，准确地找到病人是重要的第一步，这一步怎么能做到既安全又准确？杨帆：有一个很形象的比喻，在湖北的医护人员是“打鬼子”，主要治疗确诊病人。
How can we be safe and accurate in a city like Shanghai? Yang Fan: There is a very vivid metaphor that the medical staff in Hubei are "beating the devils" and treating confirmed patients.
我们留守上海的医务人员是在“抓特务”，要在新冠肺炎流行病学特点越来越模糊的情况下找到患者，甚至无症状感染者。
Our medical staff in Shanghai are "catching agents" to find patients, even asymptomatic, in the face of increasingly blurred epidemiological characteristics of the disease.
疫情早期，基本上患者都是从湖北这样重点地区来的输入性病例，这个时候只要做好流行病学的调查，基本上是比较好寻找目标的。
In the early stage of the epidemic, patients were basically imported from key areas such as Hubei Province. At this time, as long as the epidemiological investigation, it is basically easier to find the target.
但是如今疫情发展到出现了二代三代甚至四代的病人，一些患者与重点地区已经没有什么关系，流行病学界限越来越模糊，人人都有嫌疑，要甄别出患者挑战巨大。
But now that the epidemic has spread to third and even fourth-generation patients, some patients are no longer relevant to key areas, epidemiological boundaries are increasingly blurred, everyone is suspected, and the identification of patients is challenging.
所以，我们对所有门诊、急诊患者进行测体温和流行病学筛查，并设置专门的发热预检，可疑患者均进入发热门诊，按严格流程进行鉴别诊断。
Therefore, we carry out temperature and epidemiological screening of all outpatient and emergency patients and set up special pre-screening for fever. Suspected patients are admitted to the fever clinic and undergo a rigorous process of differential diagnosis.
为防止个别人隐瞒流行病学史，我们还需要通过手机验证患者近15天的行踪。
To prevent individuals from hiding an epidemiological history, we also need to use mobile phones to verify the whereabouts of patients for nearly 15 days.
对发热门诊高度怀疑新冠肺炎的患者，会安排到观察病区进行诊治，并启动基因检测。
Patients with high suspicion of new crown pneumonia in the fever clinic will be referred to the observation area for diagnosis and treatment, and genetic testing will be initiated.
为避免交叉感染，患者必须单间隔离。
To avoid cross-infection, patients must be isolated.
我们把一个感染科病房腾空，原本可以收治30多人的病房，现在按照隔离要求只能收10人。
We evacuated an infection ward, which could have housed more than 30 people, and can now accommodate only 10 people, as required by isolation.
所有医护人员到留观病房都是二级防护，就是帽子、口罩、护目镜、防护服全身披挂，谁也认不出谁那种，以保证医务人员安全。
All the medical staff came to the observation ward is secondary protection, that is, the hat, mask, goggles, protective clothing all over the body, no one can recognize who that is, in order to ensure the safety of medical personnel.
另外，我们还需要对住院患者、患者家属、保姆和护工进行密切监护，因为任何一个人感染，他与周围患者、各部门医务人员接触，他的各类标本送检，可能威胁一个病区、一栋住院楼甚至全院。
In addition, we need close supervision of hospitalized patients, their families, nannies and caregivers, since any one person is infected, he has contact with patients, medical staff from various departments, and his specimens are sent for examination, which could threaten a sick area, an inpatient building or even the entire hospital.
所以院感防控是医院防疫工作的重中之重。
So hospital prevention and control is the most important work of hospital epidemic prevention.
《新民周刊》：目前新冠肺炎的核酸检测阳性率不高，湖北的诊断标准改为可以根据临床症状结合流行病史来确诊。
Xinmin Weekly: At present, the positive rate of nucleic acid test is not high. Hubei's diagnosis standard can be confirmed by combining clinical symptoms with epidemiological history.
其他城市存在这方面的困扰吗？杨帆：武汉是在核酸检测速度赶不上需要时增加了“临床诊断”分类，为尽快把疑似的病人隔离、避免感染传播而采取得权宜之计，近日在检测能力提升后已取消“临床诊断”分类。
Yang Fan: Wuhan has added the category of "clinical diagnosis" when nucleic acid testing does not keep pace with demand, and has recently abolished the classification of "clinical diagnosis" in order to isolate suspected patients and avoid spreading the infection as quickly as possible.
湖北以外的地方不采用这个标准。
This standard is not used outside Hubei.
新冠肺炎的诊断，还是要有病原学证据，就是要做核酸检测。
The diagnosis of new crown pneumonia, or to have pathogenic evidence, is to do nucleic acid testing.
阳性率取决于采样质量和实验室水平，必要时可以重复采样检测。
The positive rate depends on sampling quality and laboratory level and can be repeated if necessary.
守住医院安全，保护医疗“战斗力”《新民周刊》：为什么说医院的感染管理非常重要？杨帆：全国各地支援湖北的医护人员已经达到3万多人，那里是主战场，战斗非常艰苦，也非常危险。
Why is infection management in hospitals very important? Yang Fan: The number of medical personnel supporting Hubei has reached more than 30,000 people all over the country.
全国其他地方的医院，病人数量没有湖北那么多，但同样是高风险的，更加要重视院内感染，防止疫情的扩大。
In other parts of the country, the number of patients is not as high as Hubei, but is also high-risk, more attention to hospital infection, to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
北大人民医院这起事件之前，天津已经发生过院内感染的事件。
The incident at Peking University People's Hospital follows a hospital infection in Tianjin.
2月初，一名发热病人到武清区人民医院发热门诊就诊，接诊医生多次询问流行病学史无异常，根据症状综合判定为普通发热患者，在呼吸内科住院治疗，后来这名患者被确诊为新冠肺炎。
At the beginning of February, a feverish patient went to the fever clinic of the People's Hospital of Wuqing District. The doctor asked him many times about the history of epidemiology.
武清人民医院2月4日清晨封控，管控隔离了973人，其中739人转到集中隔离点进行观察隔离，234名患者则实行住院隔离治疗。
Wu Qing People's Hospital closed down 973 people in the early morning of February 4. Of these, 739 were transferred to centralized quarantine sites for observation and isolation, while 234 patients were placed in hospital for isolation.
防止疾病在医院的传播包含两个方面的内容，一个是防止新冠患者传染其他病人，还一个是防止医护人员感染。
Prevention of the spread of the disease in hospitals has two components, one is to prevent the transmission of new crown patients to other patients, and the other is to prevent the infection of health-care personnel.
医院本来就是人员聚集场所，很多患者是存在免疫缺陷的人，他们容易受到病毒的感染。
Hospitals are supposed to be places where people congregate, and many of them are immune-deficient people who are vulnerable to the virus.
医护人员也不能被传染，医护人员被传染损失更大。
Health-care workers cannot be infected, and health-care workers are more vulnerable to infection.
现在全国医护人员增援武汉，为什么武汉缺那么多医生，一个原因是患者多，另一个原因是之前不仅大量医生被感染，还有一些因密切接触感染者被隔离，严重削弱当地医疗能力。
Wuhan is now being reinforced by medical personnel. One reason why Wuhan lacks so many doctors is that there are so many patients. Another reason is that not only many doctors have been infected, but others have been isolated because of close contact with the infected, seriously weakening local medical capacity.
医生感染不仅威胁患者，同时，还威胁家人。
The doctor's infection threatens not only the patient but also the family.
而且我们很多医务人员还是夫妻，比如我爱人是中山医院的医生，如果我被传染，还可能威胁中山医院。
And many of us are still couples, like my wife is a doctor at Zhongshan Hospital. If I get infected, it could threaten Zhongshan Hospital.
所以说，一个感控疏漏，牵涉面极大，后果可能很严重。
So a sentimental omission is massive, and the consequences can be serious.
华山医院不断更新和完善院内感染管理措施《新民周刊》：华山医院为疫情做了哪些院感管理方面的准备？杨帆：春节前几天，我们意识到疫情不仅仅是武汉的事情，已经威胁到全国了。
Huashan Hospital continuously updated and improved hospital infection management measures "Xinmin Weekly": Huashan Hospital for the outbreak of what hospital management? Yang Fan: A few days before the Spring Festival, we realized that the epidemic is not just Wuhan, but has become a threat to the whole country.
华山医院开始着手各方面的准备。
Huashan Hospital began to prepare for all aspects.
比如发热患者就诊的这个流程，就不能再像平常一样。
For example, the process of consultation with febrile patients, can no longer be the same as usual.
平常看病大家都知道，一个病人先去预检台，他要去诊室，要去做检验，还有可能上电梯，要去缴费、拿药。
Everyone knows that a patient goes to the preview desk first, he goes to the doctor's office, he has to go to the examination room, he can go to the elevator, he has to pay the bills, he has to get medicine.
如果出现传染病，患者这一圈走下来，预检台的护士、收费人员、门诊医生、检验人员、同乘电梯的人，都有被感染的危险。
In the event of an infectious disease, the patient goes down the circle and the nurses, toll collectors, outpatient doctors, examiners, and elevator attendants are at risk of infection.
所以说我们对就诊流程做了专门的设计，如前所述，为对每位就诊者进行甄别，医护人员都提高了防护级别。
So we made a special design for the process, as mentioned earlier, to screen each client, the level of protection was raised.
对自己的员工的健康也进行严密观察，员工进医院都要测体温；外地返沪也要居家隔离14天方能上班。
Health of their own staff are also closely monitored, staff into the hospital to take temperature; return to Shanghai also home isolation 14 days to be able to work.
我们还在修改访客制度，工作伙伴、领导、记者，比如您如果要来医院现场采访我，也必须登记和测体温。
We're also revamping our visitor policy, working with people, leaders, journalists and, if you want to come to the hospital to interview me live, you have to register and take your temperature.
很多同事问我，以后这些措施会不会变？我很难回答这个问题，疫情一直在发展变化，我们现在制定院感管理措施是用“周”计的。
Many colleagues have asked me if these measures will change in the future. It is difficult for me to answer this question.
我们时刻根据情况的变化制定措施，适应新的情况。
We are constantly adapting our measures to changing circumstances.
《新民周刊》：这段时间感觉压力最大的是什么？杨帆：作为高年资医生，工作平时也不轻松，查房、门诊、会诊、讲课，包括许多出差……所以单从“忙”来说，未必更忙。
Yang Fan: As a doctor of high seniority, his work is not easy, and he goes out for house-hunting, out-patient consultations, lectures, including many business trips, so it's not necessarily busier just to be busy.
但是现在最主要压力大，唯恐一个疏失，危及患者、同事安全，甚至影响全院、上海。
But now the most important pressure, lest a neglect, endanger patients, colleagues, and even affect the whole hospital, Shanghai.
2003年非典疫情也严峻，但相比而言这一次挑战更大。
The SARS epidemic in 2003 was severe, but this time the challenge was greater.
非典疫情中上海病例很少，这一次患者数量多几十倍，而且疾病更为隐蔽，人员流动更大、更迅速，威胁相应大了许多。
There are few cases of SARS in Shanghai. This time, the number of patients is dozens of times higher, and the disease is more insidious, the movement of people greater and faster, and the threat correspondingly large.
华山医院在这次超乎寻常的传染病疫情中，医院上下迅速从常规医疗调试到防疫状态，这当中包括硬件设施的改造，员工迅速转变角色，各部门迅速磨合，将人力和防护资源集中在防疫，不断完善各种流程，尽最大努力减少新冠病毒传播风险。
Huashan Hospital In this extraordinary epidemic, hospitals quickly moved from routine medical debugging to epidemic prevention, which included the transformation of hardware facilities, the rapid transformation of roles of staff, rapid attrition among departments, concentration of manpower and protective resources on epidemic prevention, continuous improvement of processes, and maximum effort to reduce the risk of transmission of the new crown virus.
外界看似风轻云淡，但实际我们的工作不仅繁忙，还常有惊心动魄。
Outside the wind seems light, but the actual work is not only busy, but often exciting.
《新民周刊》：现在不少医院暂停了非紧急的手术或者治疗，为什么需要采取这样的措施？杨帆：目前的院感管理措施是为新冠肺炎疫情巨大挑战作的安排，为了减少患者交叉感染机会，，全国的医院都压缩了日常医疗活动，肯定会给一些患者带来不便，但可以为疫情防控集中资源、人力和争取时间，是以局部、短期的牺牲，换取全局和长远的利益。
Yang Fan: In order to reduce the chance of cross-infection, hospitals all over the country have reduced routine medical activities, which will certainly cause inconvenience to some patients. However, it is possible to pool resources, manpower and time for disease prevention and control at short-term and local sacrifice in exchange for overall and long-term benefits.
刚开始，一些同仁也不能理解这种医疗安排，觉得不能将病人拒之门外。
At first, some colleagues were unable to understand the medical arrangements and felt unable to shut out patients.
医务处和我们院感科为此跟很多临床科室主任做了艰苦沟通解释。
Medical service and our hospital sensory department for this with many clinical department directors have made difficult communication explanation.
我跟一些医生开玩笑说，平常我们只有辛勤工作才能得到表扬，这次越少干活越能得表扬，大家要珍惜这种千载难逢的机会。
I joked to some doctors that usually we have to work hard to be praised. The less work we do, the better the chance we get.
最终让同仁真正理解这种策略来自湖北乃至其他省市的惨痛教训。
Finally let colleagues truly understand that this strategy from Hubei and other provinces and cities of the bitter lessons.
当然，目前的非常措施的确对一些病人看病带来了不便，医院也根据疫情作相应调整，满足急需的就医需求。
Of course, the current extraordinary measures do cause inconvenience to some patients, and hospitals are adapting to the epidemic to meet urgent medical needs.
卫生行政部门要求日常医疗活动的恢复要有序、稳妥、逐步，我觉得就好像一个人拉过肚子以后，不能因为前面有营养损失就暴饮暴食来弥补，明智的做法是由少到多慢慢来。
The health administration requires an orderly, steady, gradual resumption of routine medical activities. I feel like a person who has a tummy and can't make up for the loss of nutrients in the front by overeating. It is wise to move from small to slow.
令人高兴的是，从近几天数据上我们已经看到一些好消息，不仅湖北，其他省市的发病人数都有所下降，上海更是发病人数到了个位数甚至零。
Happily, we have seen some good news in recent days, not only in Hubei province, but also in other provinces and cities, and the number of cases in Shanghai has reached single digits or even zero.
说明全社会尤其医院的努力卓有成效。
It shows that the whole society, especially hospitals, have made great efforts.
这场“抓特务”的战斗，不像武汉抗疫战场那样轰轰烈烈，但巩固和保卫了上海安全，也使得我们有充分力量去支援湖北。
This battle of "catching spies" is not as fierce as the Wuhan battle against plague, but it has strengthened and protected the security of Shanghai and given us sufficient strength to support Hubei.
《新民周刊》：上海有 111家发热门诊，院感管理是不是都很严格？杨帆：卫生行政部门一开始就极为重视发热门诊的院感防控，通过各类检查和督导保证安全。
Yang Fan: From the very beginning, the health administration attached great importance to the prevention and control of the fever clinic, and ensured the safety through various kinds of inspection and supervision.
刚开始个别医院尚准备不足，比如有些医院防护等级没有达到要求，甚至发热门诊医生还穿重复使用的手术衣作为防护。
At first, individual hospitals were ill-prepared, for example, some hospitals did not have the required level of protection, and even the fever clinic doctors wore reused surgical clothing as a protection.
卫生行政部门的努力和疫情发展，使得各医院迅速以最大努力防控医院感染风险。
The efforts of the health administration and the development of the epidemic have enabled hospitals to rapidly maximize their efforts to prevent and control the risk of hospital infection.
疫情留给我们哪些拷问《新民周刊》：公众非常关心，疫情接下去到底会怎么发展？杨帆：最近很多专家也表达了他们的观点。
What is the legacy of the epidemic? NEWSWEEK: The public is very concerned about what will happen next? Yang Fan: Many experts have expressed their views recently.
从病毒自身的进化规律来说，如果它搞“你死我活”，把宿主干掉了，它自己也生存不了。
By its very evolution, the virus itself would not survive if it killed its host and killed it.
反而是像乙肝病毒这种跟人类长期共存的病毒，可以蔓延很多年。
Instead, viruses like hepatitis B, which live with humans for so long, can spread for years.
所以新冠病毒在传播中可能毒力下降，而且人群中感染的人多，可能会产生抗体，减少它的传播。
So the new crown virus may be less virulent in transmission, and more people are infected in the population, possibly producing antibodies that reduce its spread.
另外随着气温的升高，可能会对疫情控制带来好处。
In addition, as temperatures rise, there may be benefits for disease control.
但这个疾病才发现3个月不到，我们的认识还很不充分，它何时控制，今后会不会卷土重来，甚至像流感一样年年有？这些问题目前都很难回答。
But less than three months after the disease was discovered, our understanding is far from complete, when it will be contained, whether it will re-emerge, and even like the flu year after year? These questions are difficult to answer.
《新民周刊》：您经历了非典，又在新冠肺炎防疫的一线工作，您认为我们应该从疫情中反思哪些问题？杨帆：从这次疫情的发生我们可以看到，我们国家的公共卫生体系还不够完善。
What do you think we should reflect on from the outbreak? Yang Fan: From this outbreak, we can see that our national public health system is not perfect yet.
比如疾控系统的反应，疾控系统对自身定位，与临床的合作，都还有改进之处。
For example, disease control system response, disease control system to their own positioning, and cooperation with clinical, there are still areas for improvement.
另外，医院对感染科、院感科应该更加重视，在建筑布局等硬件安排上要更多考虑应对这种传染病的挑战。
In addition, the hospital should pay more attention to the infection department, the hospital sensory department, in the building layout and other hardware arrangements to take more account of the challenge of dealing with the infectious disease.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·口述实录 | 香港女孩岑雅茵：大家都要平平安安，阿中哥哥加油！·这场大考里还有一面“全身镜”·这三本《新民周刊》一定要收藏好！中国战“疫”口述细节+全景报道，记录你我的历史新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go to see your story and your clues Why don't we all go to peace, brother Shun Ya-yin! There's a full-body mirror in this quiz! China War Oral Details + Panorama: All of our historical New People's Weekly platform articles shall not be reproduced, published, adapted or carried out without proper authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防医院内感染，是一场“苦战”——专访华山医院“医院感染管理科”主任杨帆教授。
Prevention of hospital infection, is a "bitter war" - special interview Huashan Hospital "Hospital Infection Management Section," Director of Professor Yang Fan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "防医院内感染，是一场“苦战”——专访华山医院“医院感染管理科”主任杨帆教授";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; director of Hospital Infection Management at Huashan Hospital.
var msg_desc = "有时候半夜突然想到某个可能的漏洞，惊出一身冷汗。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '口述实录 | 香港女孩岑雅茵：大家都要平平安安，阿中哥哥加油！',。
Ren Shun, a Hong Kong girl: Everybody must be safe, brother A and C at home! & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '这场大考里还有一面“全身镜”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '这三本《新民周刊》一定要收藏好！中国战“疫”口述细节+全景报道，记录你我的历史',。
This three copy of Xinmin Weekly must be kept in storage! Oral details of the plague in China + panoramic coverage, and a record of your and my history and position.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
