在人间丨妈妈在武汉隔离病房去世。
Die in Wuhan Isolation Ward.
李远穆。
Li Yuanmu.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
联系上倩倩是腊月二十九。
Contact Qian Qian is Lunar 29.
当天上午10点，武汉因新型冠状病毒肺炎封了城。
That day at 10: 00 a.m., Wuhan due to the new coronavirus pneumonia sealed the city.
她很焦急，她母亲和父亲被隔离在不同的医院，母亲严重，父亲轻微。
She was worried that her mother and father were segregated in separate hospitals, with a serious mother and a slight father.
哥哥也确诊了，但医院不接收，自己在一个酒店房间隔离。
Brother also confirmed, but the hospital does not accept, oneself in a hotel room quarantine.
她担心虚弱的妈妈在病房里缺少照料。
She was worried about her weak mother's lack of care in the ward.
除夕夜里，我们又聊了一次，她的情绪明朗了些。
On New Year's Eve, we had another chat and she was in a better mood.
早些时候妈妈告诉她，在隔离病房里找到了护工。
Earlier, her mother told her that a nurse had been found in the isolation ward.
她奔波一天，帮爸爸买到了免疫球蛋白。
She spent a day shopping for immunoglobulin for her father.
她一路飞驰，从买药的汉口奔回了家。
She raced home from Hankou, where she was buying medicine.
那天夜里12点，武汉要锁江。
Wuhan was to lock the river at 12 o'clock that night.
大年初一中午，她发来微信，告知了妈妈去世的消息。
At noon on the New Year's Day, she sent a message informing her mother of her death.
她哭着喊“我没有妈妈了，我没有妈妈了，我该怎么办”。
She cried "I have no mother, I have no mother, I should do."
江城冬日阴冷，时常飘雨。
Jiangcheng cold winter, often drizzle.
农历新年第一天，倩倩四处奔波，送别母亲。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, Qian Qian scurries around to see off her mother.
疫情给了这个家庭突然的重击。
The outbreak dealt a sudden blow to the family.
最内疚的是她父亲。
Her father was the most guilty one.
因为担心妻子肺部的小结节，1月中旬，他让她动了个手术。
Fearing a small tubercle in his wife's lungs, he had her operated on in mid-January.
随后她在医院感染新型冠状病毒。
She later contracted the new coronavirus in the hospital.
短短几个日夜，疫情陡然严峻，喧闹的武汉逐渐停转。
Just a few days and nights, the outbreak of severe, noisy Wuhan gradually stopped.
截至1月28日的官方统计数据显示，湖北已有100个人感染去世。
As of Jan. 28, official statistics showed that 100 people in Hubei province had died of infection.
以下是倩倩的口述（凤凰新闻客户端在人间工作室出品）一、妈妈走了。
Here is Qian Qian's dictation (Phoenix News Client in the world studio production) 1, mother left.
一切都太不真实了。
It's all so unreal.
大年初一早上，爸爸打电话让我给他送药。
On the morning of New Year's Day, Dad called me to deliver medicine to him.
我拿了10瓶免疫球蛋白出门，想分别给爸妈送一些。
I took ten bottles of immunoglobulin and went out to give Mom and Dad some.
我把药放在隔离楼大厅的一个地方，走远。
I left the medicine in a secluded lobby, far away.
爸爸来取走了药，临走时，喊了一句“妈妈可能不行了”。
Dad came to get the medicine, and when he left, he called out, "Mom may not be able to do it."
我很震惊。
I was shocked.
后来他发短信来，说十几分钟前医院打来电话，告知妈妈器官衰竭了，正在抢救。
Later he sent a text message saying that a dozen minutes earlier the hospital had phoned to tell his mother that her organ was failing and that she was in resuscitation.
我很着急，想联系妈妈的护士，但一直联系不上。
I was in a hurry to contact my mother's nurse, but I couldn't reach her.
我又给爸爸发短信，安慰他“哪里衰竭，不会的，肯定可以抢救回来。
I sent a text message to his father, comforting him: "Where failure, will not, can certainly be rescued.
妈妈那么坚强，我们要相信她”。
Mom is so strong, we have to trust her.
他回复：“不会了，现在抢救只是走形式”。
He replied: "No, now the rescue is just a form."
■1月17日，妈妈做完肺部手术，我给她买了花，妈妈很高兴。
▪ On January 17, after my mother had lung surgery, I bought her flowers, and she was very happy.
我向爸爸要了告诉他消息的电话号码，打过去，对方一直暗示，妈妈要不行了。
I asked Dad for his phone number to tell him the news. I called and the caller kept hinting that Mom was going to die.
我只能哭着求他，“我什么都可以不要，多少钱都不在乎，求你用最好的药、最好的设备救救妈妈，我不能没有妈妈啊”。
I can only cry to him, "I can not do anything, how much money do not care, please use the best medicine, the best equipment to save mother, I can not do without mother."
没几分钟，电话又响了。
A few minutes later, the phone rang again.
医生很郑重地介绍了身份。
The doctor gave a serious introduction to his identity.
我就知道，完了。
I knew it was over.
医生说已经通知了殡仪馆，一会就要把妈妈的尸体拉走。
The doctor said he had informed the funeral home that his mother's body would soon be taken away.
我求医生等等我，我马上就到。
I asked the doctor to wait for me. I'll be right there.
他答应了，但让我不能靠近妈妈。
He agreed, but kept me away from my mother.
第一次跟医院打电话后，我给哥哥打了个电话，故作轻松，像往常一样打听他的进展。
The first time I called the hospital, I called my brother, pretending to relax, and asked about his progress as usual.
哥哥早上5点就去医院排队做检查，这是第三天去了。
My brother went to the hospital at 5 in the morning to have a checkup. It was the third day.
哥哥说得要两点半才能看得上医生。
Brother said it would take two-thirty to see the doctor.
我忍住没跟他说抢救的事。
I couldn't hold back from telling him about the rescue.
哥哥最爱妈妈了。
Brother loves mommy best.
接了医院的第二通电话后，我哭了几分钟，又想了几分钟，觉得这件事哥哥应该知道。
After I answered the second call from the hospital, I cried for a few minutes and thought for a few more minutes, thinking that my brother should know.
何况我自己也懵了，不知道怎么处理，我怕自己扛不住。
Besides, I also Meng, do not know how to deal with, I am afraid they can not carry.
我打给哥哥，问他，“你要不要来妈妈这边”。
I called my brother and asked him, "Would you like to come to my mother's side?"
他问怎么了，排了一上午队，他怕现在走就白排了。
He asked what was the matter. He had been queuing up all morning and was afraid he would have to leave now.
我一个字一个字告诉他，“哥哥你要冷静，绝对不能冲动。
"I told him word for word," Brother, calm down, absolutely not impulsive.
我们没妈妈了。
We don't have moms.
”哥哥被吓到了，他不相信。
"The brother was frightened and didn't believe him.
我不说话了。
I said nothing.
我张不了嘴，一开口我就会哭。
I can't open my mouth. I cry when I open my mouth.
一瞬间，哥哥崩溃了，哭得很惨。
For a moment, my brother broke down and cried miserably.
他从没哭成这样过。
He never cried like that.
我也想哭，但哥哥已经这样了，我就不敢哭了。
I want to cry too, but my brother has already done so, I dare not cry.
我一直安抚他。
I always assuaged him.
我们想去看妈妈最后一眼。
We wanted to take one last look at our mother.
一路上，嫂子和爸爸一直给我打电话，让我们不要去，太危险了。
All the way, my sister-in-law and my father kept calling me not to go. It was too dangerous.
但我们不能不去。
But we can't help it.
■右边这栋矮楼是爸爸被隔离的地方，我每天往返两个小时给他送药。
▪ The small building on the right is where my father is kept in seclusion. I bring him medicine for two hours every day.
我先到了医院，手脚发着抖。
I got to the hospital first, my hands and feet shaking.
过了会儿，哥哥也到了。
After a while, my brother arrived, too.
他只戴了口罩，踉踉跄跄冲去病房，我抓都抓不住。
He was wearing only a mask and staggered to the hospital room, where I couldn't catch him.
妈妈还有体温。
Mom's got a temperature.
哥哥趴在妈妈胸口抽噎，大喊“还有心跳，医生，还有心跳啊”。
Brother on mother chest sniffles, shouting "and heartbeat, doctor, and heartbeat ah."
医生过来看了下监视器，上面是两个0。
The doctor came over and looked at the monitor. It was two zeros.
病房里还有三个阿姨，她们都在抹眼泪。
There were also three aunts in the ward, all of whom were wiping their tears.
妈妈的桌子上摆着这么多天来我们送来的饭，好像一动都没动过。
There was so much food on my mother's desk for so many days that we didn't even seem to move.
哥哥哭得喘不过气。
The brother was gasping for breath.
那是感染科病房，我担心他的安全，只能使劲拉他出去。
It was the infection ward, and I was afraid for his safety, so I had to pull him out.
医生不愿意跟我们多说什么。
The doctor didn't want to say more to us.
他给了我们一张死亡证明，上面写着直接死亡原因是“呼吸衰竭”，因“新型冠状病毒感染”引起。
He gave us a death certificate stating that the direct cause of death was "respiratory failure" caused by a "new coronavirus infection."
他说有问题回头再来找医院，现在要先把人送去殡仪馆。
He said he would come back to the hospital if he had a problem. Now he would have to take him to the funeral home.
我们只能走了，在楼下一个空旷的停车场等着。
We had to go and wait in an empty parking lot downstairs.
天开始下雨。
It began to rain.
半小时后，有人推着一个尸袋出来。
Half an hour later someone came out with a body bag.
确认是妈妈后，我们跟着来到了太平间。
After confirming it was Mom, we followed to the morgue.
我和哥哥一直在门口跪着磕头。
My brother and I knelt and kowtowed at the door.
那个地方没消过毒，我担心哥哥，只能又拉着他走了。
The place had not been poisoned, and I was afraid my brother would have to take him away again.
殡仪馆随后打来电话。
The mortician called later.
我哀求他们，一定要等我们。
I begged them to wait for us.
我们一路加速，二十分钟就赶到了。
We sped up and arrived in twenty minutes.
他们递过来一份遗体处理承诺书，上面写着“逝者疑似或患重症肺炎死亡”。
They handed over a deed of commitment for the disposal of the body, which said "the deceased are suspected or dead of severe pneumonia."
殡仪馆的人不允许我们再进去，让我们签了字就直接走。
The undertaker's men wouldn't let us in again. Let's just sign and go.
他也在抱怨，说那里已经都是人了，情况比我们想的严重很多。
He was complaining, too, that it was all human and that the situation was much more serious than we thought.
几辆车停在那。
Several cars were parked there.
我们确认了运妈妈的车，跪下，向着车子磕头。
We confirmed the mother's car, knelt down and kowtowed to it.
旁边还有三四个男人，也跪着哭。
There were three or four men beside them, also kneeling and crying.
车子开走了，我一直追在后面跑。
The car drove off and I ran after it all the time.
它越开越快，我实在追不上，停了下来，站在那儿，气喘呼呼。
It grew faster and faster, and I couldn't catch up. I stopped and stood there, panting.
天很冷，我感觉很无助，很绝望。
It was cold and I felt helpless and desperate.
哥哥哭得收不住。
The brother could not stop crying.
我平复了心情，特别冷静地跟他说，走，我们现在要赶紧把爸爸的药送过去。
I calmed down and said to him calmly, Let's get Dad's medicine to him now.
我一直在和他说，我们剩下的人一定要活得更好，不能再失去任何一个人了。
I have been telling him that the rest of us must live better and not lose anyone else.
二、一月中旬，爸爸担心妈妈的身体，把她叫回来动了手术。
In the middle of February and January, her father, worried about her health, called her back for surgery.
妈妈之前在外地陪外婆。
Mom was out of town with Grandma.
没想到术后感染了病毒，但医院没对她做什么特殊护理。
Unexpectedly, she contracted the virus after the operation, but the hospital did not give her any special care.
我们很着急。
We are in a hurry.
去找爸爸的半个小时车程里，我一直和哥哥说，你可以在我这哭，但不能对爸爸和嫂子哭。
Half an hour to find Dad, I kept telling my brother you could cry with me, but not with my father and sister-in-law.
你也不能钻牛角尖，你说自责的话，爸爸会更自责。
You don't have to. When you say remorse, Dad will blame himself even more.
我们所有人都没错，我们都是为了妈妈的身体才让她做手术的。
All of us are right. We all had her operated on for our mother's health.
新闻之前没报，我们完全不知道这个传染会这么严重。
We didn't report it before. We had no idea that the infection would be so serious.
爸爸下来了，离我们远远的，不说话。
Dad came down. Stay away from us. Don't talk.
我猜他一开口就会哭，会崩溃。
I guess he cries as soon as he opens his mouth. He crashes.
哥哥一直喊，爸爸你把口罩摘下我看看。
Brother kept shouting, Dad, you take off your mask and look at me.
爸爸没搭理。
Dad didn't answer.
我们把东西放在桌子上，走远了，爸爸才来拿东西，拿了就走。
We put our things on the table and walked away. Dad came to pick up the things and took them away.
妈妈确诊后，他一直不让我靠近他。
After my mother was diagnosed, he kept me away from him.
我们俩见面，要隔开20米。
We'll meet 20 meters apart.
我走近一步，他就退后一步。
As I approached, he took a step back.
他会很凶地喊我走。
He would have called me to go.
如果我不走，他就着急，急起来他会吼，让我赶紧滚。
If I don't leave, he's in a hurry. He'll yell and tell me to get out of here.
我一直很黏爸爸，他以前从不这么对我。
I've always been slimy Dad. He never did this to me before.
爸爸也很爱妈妈。
My father loves my mother, too.
17号做完手术后，妈妈每天都很痛苦，日日夜夜睡不好觉，爸爸贴身照顾她，每天也几乎没怎么睡。
After the operation on the 17th, my mother was in pain every day, sleeping hard day and night, my father took close care of her, and hardly slept every day.
1月21日，我和哥哥开了很久的车去看外婆，刚到不久，就接到电话，说妈妈疑似感染了新型冠状病毒。
On January 21, my brother and I drove a long time to see Grandma. Shortly after we arrived, we got a call saying that my mother was suspected to have contracted the new coronavirus.
我们很吃惊，妈妈的医院不在汉口，我们一家也没去过华南海鲜市场。
We are very surprised, mother's hospital is not in Hankou, our family has not been to the South China seafood market.
我们又赶紧开了两百公里车，回了武汉。
We hurriedly drove another 200 kilometers, back to Wuhan.
但爸爸很强硬，不让我们去找他们。
But Dad was too tough for us to find them.
那天下午，他们就从住院部三人间转移到了一个单人间。
That afternoon, they were transferred from three inpatient rooms to a single room.
22号确诊了，中午，医生说要转到金银潭医院。
22 confirmed. At noon, the doctor said he wanted to transfer to the gold and silver pool hospital.
但过了三个小时，我再找他，他就说转不了了，金银潭那边满了。
But after three hours I looked for him again, and he said he could not turn. The gold and silver was full.
我当时就特别慌。
I was so nervous.
医生安慰我，说这家医院也会有全国的专家来支援。
The doctor reassured me that the hospital would be supported by experts from all over the country.
我还是很着急，很想去找他们。
I was still in a hurry and wanted to find them.
当时有一种心情，想一定要看到爸爸妈妈，确定他们在那里。
At that time, there was a mood, want to see parents, make sure they are there.
因为我不知道到底发生了什么，我们就一天不在，事情怎么就成了现在这样。
Because I don't know what happened, we were gone the whole day, and that's how it came about.
想到隔离就看不到妈妈了，我很害怕，怕会不会以后再也看不见了。
Thinking of isolation, I can not see my mother, I am afraid that I will not be able to see the future.
■爸爸拍给我看妈妈的病床。
▪ Dad shows me my mother's bed.
我求护士，能不能让我走近一点，隔着玻璃看一眼。
I begged the nurse if I could come closer and look through the glass.
护士挺好心，她一直提醒我不能进去，不能待久了，要做好防护。
The nurse was kind enough to warn me not to go in, not to stay long enough to take care of myself.
我隔着玻璃门看到了我爸，他当时就很生气，用手势比划，让我赶紧走。
I saw my dad through the glass door. He was angry and gestured and told me to hurry.
妈妈的床靠墙，我看不清她。
Mother's bed is against the wall. I can't see her clearly.
护士把她扶起来，她特别虚弱地跟我招了招手。
The nurse helped her up and she waved to me very weakly.
我一直哭，爸爸一直赶我。
I've been crying. Dad's been driving me out.
我只能走了，哭着嘱咐他们好好的，好好吃东西，好好看病。
I can only go, crying and telling them to good, good food, good medical treatment.
后来我们才知道，爸爸当时没有确诊，他是自己主动要去陪护妈妈的。
Later we learned that the father was not diagnosed, he is his own initiative to accompany his mother.
这段时间，我们每天都面临很残忍的选择。
Every day during this time, we are faced with very cruel choices.
如果爸爸当时没有被感染，让不让爸爸去照顾妈妈？这怎么选。
If the father was not infected, let the father to take care of the mother?
妈妈刚做完手术，爸爸不去照顾，她可能就没有办法上厕所，没办法吃饭。
Mom just finished the operation, father did not take care of, she may not be able to go to the toilet, no way to eat.
妈妈被隔离后，这家医院规定不能收外卖了，也不提供伙食。
After her mother was quarantined, the hospital ordered no take-out or meals.
让哥哥送饭他会有感染的风险，不送，妈妈又会饿肚子，送还是不送？■ 1月20日，我们给爸妈送去饭菜和一桶鸡汤。
If you give your brother food, he will be at risk of infection. If you don't, your mother will be hungry again, will you send or not?
哥哥带着年度优秀的奖状，妈妈旁边两个床的婆婆都说羡慕我们一家子。
Brother with the excellent certificate of the year, my mother-in-law next to the two beds said envy our family.
我们没时间想这些。
We don't have time to think about that.
我们只能给哥哥最大限度的防护。
We can only give our brother maximum protection.
他去送饭时会穿上一次性雨衣，戴上口罩、鞋套和医用橡胶手套，再拿胶带把身上有缝隙的地方全部都封牢了。
He would wear a disposable raincoat, mask, shoe cover and medical rubber gloves when he went to dinner, then tape all the cracks in his body.
■在妈妈的病房，爸爸就是在这张椅子上坐着过夜的。
That's where Dad sits all night in his mother's room.
妈妈的病房有四个病人，爸爸没地方睡，就让我们买了那种和便桶一体的凳子，他在上面坐一夜。
There were four patients in my mother's ward. Dad had no place to sleep, so we bought a stool that would fit into a bucket and he sat on it all night.
22号晚上，爸爸也做了检测。
On the evening of the 22nd, my father had a test, too.
但隔天下午，感染科病房就不让爸爸陪护了。
But the next afternoon, father was not allowed to accompany him in the infection ward.
爸爸取了检测结果，在医院大楼里坐着，不想离开妈妈。
Dad took the test results and sat in the hospital building, not wanting to leave his mother.
我说那我去医院正对面开一个房间。
I said I'll open a room right across the hospital.
那里从窗子可以直接看到妈妈隔离的楼，直线距离两三百米。
From the window there was a direct view of the mother's isolated building, two or three hundred metres apart.
我去找酒店，他们说不对外营业了。
I went to the hotel and they said it was closed.
■ 23日晚上，我和爸爸坐在两辆车里打电话。
On the evening of the 23rd my father and I were on the phone in two cars.
我隔着车窗拍下了另一辆车里的他。
I photographed him through the window in another car.
爸爸看了检验报告，说结果是阴性。
Dad read the test report and said it was negative.
我想开车接他回家休息。
I want to drive him home for a rest.
他不愿意坐我的车，怕身上有病毒。
He didn't want to ride in my car for fear of a virus.
我们俩只能一前一后开车。
We can only drive one car before the other.
半路上，他给我发信息，说他眼花看错了，结果是阳性。
Halfway down the road, he sent me a message that he had read wrong and that he was positive.
他非常难过，更加不敢跟我同住了。
He was so sad that he did not dare to live with me.
他一直问我，怎么办啊，该去哪儿啊。
He kept asking me what to do and where to go.
我也慌神了，也不知道我们应该去哪儿。
I'm in a panic, and I don't know where we should go.
我先把那天早上在药店买到的一瓶500毫升的酒精拿给他。
I first brought him a 500ml bottle of alcohol that morning at the drugstore.
我还买了一瓶喷雾式花露水，爸爸把花露水倒掉，灌进酒精，就能当喷壶用了。
I also bought a spray bottle of dew, my father poured out the dew, poured alcohol, can be used as a spray pot.
但我只买到了一瓶，爸爸坚持要把酒精分我一些。
But I only got one bottle and Dad insisted on giving me some alcohol.
我们的车停在一个黑了灯的巷子里，一左一右。
Our car was parked in a dark alley, right and left.
我走过去，他把窗子摇下来，不说话，使眼神，暗示我把手伸出来。
I went over, and he rolled down the window without speaking, making an expression in his eyes that suggested that I should hold out my hand.
我猜出他的意思，把橡胶手套脱了。
I guessed what he meant. I took off my rubber gloves.
他对着我的两只手喷酒精，递给我剩的酒精瓶子。
He sprayed alcohol on my hands and handed me the remaining bottles.
瓶身整个都喷过了，递给我后，他又把上面他捏过的地方又喷了一遍酒精。
The whole bottle was sprayed, and when he handed it to me, he sprayed it over again where he had pinched it.
他使眼神让我赶紧走。
He made me hurry with his eyes.
回到车里，我们继续用电话交流，又商量了好一会儿怎么办，去哪里，就这样过了半个多小时。
Back in the car, we continued to talk on the phone and talked for a while about what to do and where to go, and so on for over half an hour.
我后来和朋友说，我们隔着这么近，却只能分坐在两个车子里，不知道该往何处去，真的非常心酸。
I later told my friend that we were so close but could only sit in two cars and didn't know where to go. It was really sad.
爸爸最终决定去医院。
Dad finally decided to go to the hospital.
他连夜到另一个医院排队，排到凌晨，做了检查。
He queued up at another hospital overnight and waited until the wee hours for an examination.
第二天早上他给妈妈送了早餐后，又去那个医院排队住院了。
The next morning he gave his mother breakfast and went to the hospital where he was standing in line.
三、爸爸提着药和一桶加了盐的矿泉水走了，越走越远。
My father took the medicine and a pail of salted mineral water and went away.
我和哥哥朝他喊，爸爸加油，要坚强。
My brother and I shouted to him, father refueling, to be strong.
他回头看了看我们，还是没说话。
He looked back at us, but said nothing.
从医院开车返回的路上，我很恍惚，哥哥多次提醒我刹车。
On my way back from the hospital, I was in a trance and my brother reminded me to brake many times.
我们决定让他把酒店退了，回我家住。
We decided to ask him to leave the hotel and return to my house.
妈妈走了，我们需要彼此。
Mom's gone. We need each other.
回家后，我们把当天穿的衣服都丢了。
When we got home, we lost all our clothes for the day.
又怕有人会捡去，就拿剪刀都剪烂了。
I was afraid someone would pick it up and cut it with scissors.
妈妈确诊那天晚上9点半，哥哥一个人去做了检查。
Mother diagnosed that night at 9: 30, my brother went to do a single check-up.
凌晨3点他开车回家，在停车场睡了一夜，他怕传染嫂子和侄子。
He drove home at 3 a.m. and slept all night in the parking lot, afraid of infecting his sister-in-law and nephew.
第二天，确诊结果出来了，但没有医院收。
The next day, the results of the diagnosis came out, but no hospital received them.
■妈妈亲手为我做的橄榄油，我想一直保存着。
▪ Olive oil, which my mother made for me, I want to keep all the time.
我和哥哥说，我们住一起，我还可以给你做饭，我自己也能好好吃饭了，我们一定要坚强，不能倒下。
My brother and I said, we live together, I can cook for you, I can eat a good meal myself, we must be strong, can not fall down.
■妈妈11月来我家，帮我收拾屋子，给我留了字条，让我一个人仔细生活。
▪ Mom came to my house in November, helped me clean up the house, left me a note, let me live a careful life.
第二天我给哥哥烧饭，油桶里没油了。
The next day I cooked for my brother and there was no oil in the bucket.
我翻找出一瓶妈妈之前给我的橄榄油。
I rummaged out a bottle of olive oil my mother had given me.
我一个人住，她时常来看我。
I live alone and she often comes to see me.
今年11月，她给我买来很多调料，写了一个字条，嘱咐我过日子要精打细算。
In November, she bought me a lot of spices and wrote a note instructing me to live a frugal life.
她还帮我扔了做蛋糕的过期的面粉。
She also threw me out-of-date flour for the cake.
妈妈真的很漂亮，是院里非常有名的大美女，朋友都羡慕我有这么好看这么爱我的妈妈。
Mother is really very beautiful, is a very famous beautiful woman in the yard, friends envy me so good-looking so love my mother.
我想一直保存着这瓶橄榄油，就去超市买其他油。
I want to keep this bottle of olive oil all the time and go to the supermarket to buy some other oil.
在一个货架上，我看到妈妈爱吃的酸辣粉，蹲下哭得不成人形。
On a shelf, I saw my mother love to eat sour spicy powder, squatting and crying dehumanizing.
23号晚上，妈妈发微信来，说她想吃手撕面包和酸辣粉。
On the evening of the 23rd, my mother sent a message saying that she wanted to eat bread and hot and sour powder.
我马上出门去找，但超市关门了。
I went out immediately to look for it, but the supermarket closed.
我当时很崩溃，妈妈这么虚弱，好不容易提出要吃一点东西，我却不能满足她。
I was crumbling, my mother was so weak that I could not satisfy her when she tried to ask for something to eat.
我每天能做的只是不停打市长热线，反映妈妈的特殊情况。
All I could do every day was call the mayor's hotline constantly to reflect on my mother's special situation.
但不管我打多少次电话，他们都只会说会向上面反映了，尽快回复。
But no matter how many calls I make, all they say is that they will report it to me and answer it as soon as possible.
打了三天电话，没有任何回应。
After three days of calls, there was no response.
妈妈去世后，我才知道，她说找到护工是骗我们的。
When my mother died, I learned that she had lied to us about finding a caretaker.
她独自隔离后，我们很担心，四处在求助。
After she was isolated, we were worried and looking around for help.
有一次我给妈妈打电话，她在呻吟，喊伤口疼，央求护士帮她打开饭盒。
Once I called my mother and she was moaning, yelling for pain in the wound and begging the nurse to open her lunch box.
护士语气严厉。
The nurse spoke harshly.
妈妈很善良，她反而一直在劝我，20多个病人就一个医生一个护士，他们也遭受了很大的委屈和压力。
Mother is very kind, she has been advising me, more than 20 patients on a doctor a nurse, they also suffered a lot of grievances and pressure.
以前不觉得妈妈在有什么，但当我再也得不到了，感觉就像在黑暗的寒夜里，突然被撤去裹身的棉被，暴露在无尽的暴风雪里。
I didn't think my mother was there, but when I couldn't get it any more, it felt like I was suddenly pulled out of my quilt on a dark cold night and exposed to endless blizzards.
这两天我经常偷偷听妈妈之前发的语音。
These two days I often secretly listen to my mother's voice before.
有次哥哥从背后走过，发现了，往我的后脑勺很用力拍了一下。
One time my brother walked by behind his back and found it. He gave me a good pat on the back of the head.
但我知道，他自己晚上在偷偷哭。
But I knew he was crying at night.
妈妈去世的那天晚上，爸爸一直给我和哥哥发信息，告诉我们银行卡密码、手机密码，以及买了什么保险，乱七八糟的事情都交代得很仔细。
The night my mother died, my father kept sending messages to my brother and me, telling us the bank card password, the cellphone password, and what kind of insurance he had bought.
有时候他突然想起来了，就发来一段很长的语音。
Sometimes he suddenly remembered and sent out a long speech.
我真是崩溃了。
I just broke down.
我特别怕爸爸自责。
I'm especially afraid of daddy's remorse.
他们实在是太相爱了。
They are too much in love.
他们也很爱我，妈妈确诊后，不让我靠近她的隔离病房。
They loved me, too. When my mother was diagnosed, she wouldn't let me go near her isolation ward.
1月24日那天上午，我想给妈妈送手撕面包和酸辣粉，嫂子情绪特别激动，她坚决不让我去。
On the morning of January 24, I wanted to tear my mother's bread and hot and sour powder. My sister-in-law was so excited that she would not let me go.
她说自己已经有一些不适症状了，如果隔离了，我得帮她照顾孩子。
She said she was already suffering from some symptoms, and if she was quarantined, I would have to take care of the baby.
如果我们家五个大人都感染了，孩子怎么办？最后我跟她说，我也烧到37度多。
What if all five adults in my family get infected? I finally told her that I burned more than 37 degrees.
她一下就崩溃了，一直在哭。
She broke down and cried all the time.
我开始给各个地方打电话，打听政府对此有什么帮扶措施。
I started calling various places to find out what the government was doing to help.
市长热线好不容易打通了，他们说做了记录，会向上反映，打给妇联，只有一个值班人员，他也不清楚，红十字会的电话打不进去，卫健委又说这事他没有权利和权限。
The mayor's hotline was hard to get through, they said they had a note, they said it would go up, they called the women's union, there was only one duty officer, he didn't know, the Red Cross couldn't get in, and the health committee said he had no right or authority to do so.
他们又都让我打市长热线。
They all asked me to call the mayor's hotline.
我们实在太慌了，连120和110都打了。
We were so panicked that we even hit 120 and 110.
一上午没有一个电话是有用的。
Not having a phone call all morning is useful.
嫂子从早到晚在家用84消毒水做清洁，还时时刻刻在家喷酒精，给侄儿弄吃的，一定要拿酒精喷手，手背都喷的过敏发红了。
My sister-in-law cleans the house with disinfectant 84 from morning till night. She sprays alcohol at home all the time.
只有六岁的小侄儿什么都不知道，他是正儿八经地过寒假，很开心。
Only six-year-old niece did not know anything, he is a serious winter holiday, very happy.
我嫂子以前对他管的很严，不怎么允许他看电视。
My sister-in-law used to be so strict with him that she didn't allow him to watch TV.
但这几天他可以随意看电视。
But these days he can watch TV at will.
如果孩子黏过来，嫂子就躲开，一直说你走远点，走远点。
If the baby sticks in, my sister-in-law dodges and keeps saying you're going away. Stay away.
我从小是被宠大的。
I was favored when I was young.
这是我第一次感觉到这个家庭需要我来支撑了。
It was the first time I felt the family needed my support.
我觉得我就是最后一道防线，我要保护我嫂子和侄儿。
I feel like the last line of defense. I want to protect my sister-in-law and my nephew.
如果我倒了的话，我嫂子和侄儿就得站出来了，我不想让他们面对这些东西。
If I did, my sister-in-law and my nephew would have to stand up. I didn't want them to face it.
嫂子实在很瘦弱。
My sister-in-law is very thin.
在跟他们说话时，我会故意装作轻松，或者告诉他们一些好信息，比如武汉又来了什么专家，又治好了多少人。
When I speak to them, I will pretend to be relaxed or give them some good information, such as what experts have come to Wuhan and how many people have been cured.
但挂完电话，我常常一个人在家里哭到崩溃。
But when I hang up, I often cry at home alone until I break down.
■ 24日晚上，赶在封江前，我开车跑到汉口硚口买了救命药。
▪ On the evening of the 24th, just before Fengjiang, I went to Hankou to buy a life-saving medicine.
1月24日晚上，我把酸辣粉和面包放到哥哥酒店楼下，他给妈妈送去了。
On the evening of January 24, I put the spicy powder and bread downstairs at my brother's hotel. He sent it to my mother.
我又开车去汉口买免疫球蛋白。
I drove to Hankou to buy immunoglobulin.
市面上一瓶已经涨到了八百元。
A bottle has gone up to 800 yuan.
时间很赶。
Time is running out.
我开得飞快，赶在锁江前奔回家。
I drove very fast and ran home before I locked the river.
回来路上，我给哥哥打电话，问他在哪儿。
On my way back, I called my brother and asked him where he was.
我们俩竟然就在一座高架桥的上面和下面。
We were on the top and the bottom of a viaduct.
看了表，正好零点。
Look at the watch. It's exactly zero.
我才意识到，鼠年来了。
I realized that the Year of the Rat had come.
武汉一点也没有过年的气氛。
Wuhan has no atmosphere for Spring Festival at all.
我向哥哥说新年快乐。
I say Happy New Year to my brother.
我看看车后座，很开心。
I'm happy to see the back seat.
我想我们也算了过了一个不错的年，爸爸要用的那么难买的药，我买了很多很多，妈妈也说她有护工了。
I think we had a good year, Dad used so difficult to buy drugs, I bought a lot of, my mother said she had a caretaker.
我想我们一家马上就要团圆了。
I think our family will get together soon.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and text to record all the photos you hear and see in no less than 3 words in no less than 300 words: micro-mail contact the ruler of the world.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨妈妈在武汉隔离病房去世。
Die in Wuhan Isolation Ward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨妈妈在武汉隔离病房去世";。
var msg _ title = & quot; died and quot; in the human world, into the Wuhan isolation ward.
var msg_desc = "一月中旬，母亲做了肺部手术后在医院感染新型冠状病毒。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in mid-January, mother contracted the new coronavirus in hospital after lung surgery.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（一）',。
Ritle: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨父亲双肺感染严重，然而一床难求',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
