危机下的民间志愿者：把自己逼成超级对接平台。
Civil Volunteers in Crisis: Forcing Yourself into a Super Docking Platform.
谢婵 李叙瑾。
Xie Chan Jin.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
他觉得自己像一个巨大的电插座，身上插满了孔，求助信息和资源提供信息被一起插到他身上，他再来牵线对接。
He felt like a huge electrical outlet with holes all over his body, information and resources being plugged in to provide information, and he pulled the plug.
文 | 谢婵 李叙瑾 编辑 | 小豆22岁的梅浩宇窝在出租屋里，吃光了13包泡面和3大袋零食，每天睁开眼睛，他就开始回复信息，四面八方的求助和物资信息向他一古脑涌来，目的地都是他的家乡武汉。
Li Shu-yu, 22, an editor and daughter of Xie Chan, sat in a rented room, ate 13 bags of noodles and three large bags of snacks. Every day when his eyes were open, he began to respond with messages of help and material from all sides, all destined for his hometown Wuhan.
最大的一宗是十五万只口罩和五万件防护服。
The biggest one was 150,000 masks and 50,000 protective suits.
但某些时刻，他觉得自己面对的是一个巨大的黑洞，怎么都填补不了。
But at some point, he felt he was facing a massive black hole that he could not fill.
“我是一个没有插上电源的电插座”重庆师范大学大三学生梅浩宇“身不由己”地成为了某个民间救援场的核心。
"I'm an unplugged power outlet," said Mei Haoyu, a junior at Chongqing Normal University, who became the center of a private rescue site.
曾在媒体实习过的他，在朋友圈看见别人自发组成的志愿者团队，加入了进去，专门帮记者联系采访对象。
He had been an intern in the media, in the circle of friends to see other people spontaneously formed a volunteer team, joined in, specifically to help reporters contact the interviewee.
后来开始寻找物资，只是在物流停滞封城状态下，为留在武汉的记者对接防护用具。
Later began to look for supplies, only in the logistics of stagnant sealed state, for the journalists left in Wuhan docking protective equipment.
梅浩宇整理好信息，在朋友圈传播出去，回应的速度比他想象得快。
MeiHo-woo sorted out the information and spread it through his circle of friends, responding faster than he had expected.
不到两小时，200多个好友申请等着他通过，最初三四个小时，他一直在通过好友请求，每通过一个好友并改好备注的时间是7秒。
Within two hours, more than 200 applications were waiting for him to pass, and for the first three or four hours, he would ask his buddies for seven seconds each time he passed a friend and changed his notes.
他连回复一句话的精力都没有，“打字打得手都抖了，点击屏幕的手指感觉在抽筋”。
He didn't even have the energy to reply, "typing so much that his fingers on the screen felt cramped."
半夜三点才睡下，早上七点，他就被一种焦虑感和紧迫感给逼醒了。
He went to bed at three in the morning, and at seven in the morning he was awakened by a sense of anxiety and urgency.
没来得及吃东西，他蓬头垢面地坐在出租屋的床上，回复信息和未接电话，全部是来表达捐赠意愿的。
Before he could eat, he sat unkempt on the rental bed, answering messages and not answering the phone, all to show his willingness to donate.
他找到最快能抵达的物资和能联系上的物流公司，凑齐了给记者们送去。
He found the fastest reachable supplies and the logistics company he could contact and assembled them for the journalists.
除夕晚上梅浩宇的“年夜饭”。
Mei Haoyu's "New Year's Eve Dinner".
更多的物资信息还在涌来，没办法一个个回复，他把大家全部拉到一个群里，后来群人数很快增长到400多人。
More material information was pouring in, and he could not answer them one by one. He pulled them all into one group, which soon grew to more than 400.
从这个群开始，所有人都来找他：想捐赠物资的、极度缺乏物资的、物流受阻的....这两天，他觉得自己像一个巨大的电插座，身上插满了孔，求助信息和资源提供信息被一起插到他身上，他再来牵线对接。
Starting with this group, everyone came to him: the desperately short, logistics-stunted... For two days, he felt like a huge electrical outlet with holes all over his body, and he was hooked up with information and resources for help and docking.
小一点的物资包括几百份的防护服、口罩、护目镜，大一点的有十几万的防护物资、护目镜等。
Smaller materials include hundreds of protective clothing, masks, goggles, and a little more than a few hundred thousand protective materials, goggles and so on.
经由他手，梳理好多方的信息再牵线对接，运输遇到困难的就自己去找物流公司帮忙。
Through his hand, carding the information of many parties and docking, transport difficulties on their own to seek help from the logistics company.
梅浩宇强行撑着，加上陆续有朋友帮忙，一直有对接成功的消息反馈过来。
Mei Hao-woo forced support, plus a succession of friends to help, has been successful docking news over.
有一些时刻，他觉得自己面对的是一个巨大的黑洞，怎么都填补不了。
There were moments when he felt he was facing a massive black hole that he could not fill.
有一家企业自己筹了11万的p2出口标准的一次性口罩，问梅浩宇哪里还需要？他打电话给应城的卫健局副局长，想问问对方是否需要，电话里刚讲清来意，对方就大倒苦水，“几乎所有医院都缺，什么都没有”，最后表示，最好能全部给他们。
One company raised its own 110,000 P2 export standard disposable mask and asked Mei Haoyu where he needed it He called the deputy director of Yingcheng Health Bureau to ask if he needed one.
23日武汉封城之后，民间自筹的物资在运输途中遇到了困难。
Wuhan after the closure of 23, the private self-financing of goods in transit encountered difficulties.
梅浩宇记得，有500套防护服需要从蔡甸运到襄阳老河口市第一人民医院应急使用，“但武汉本地的物流出不了武汉，襄阳接应的物流又到不了武汉，中间有一段路完全是我们束手无策的。
Mei recalled that 500 suits had to be transported from Cai dian to Xiangyang Lao Hekou City First People's Hospital for emergency use. "But Wuhan's local logistics can't get out of Wuhan, and Xiangyang's logistics won't reach Wuhan.
”后来是两地的志愿者协商好，双方开车到封界，两台车屁股对着，才把物资交接了。
Volunteers from the two places negotiated well, and the two sides drove to the boundary, the two cars facing each other until the goods were handed over.
事实上，武汉疫情受到广泛关注以来，周边城市的状况也一再被提及。
In fact, Wuhan epidemic has been widely concerned, the situation of surrounding cities has been repeatedly mentioned.
网友开始用“湖北不止一个武汉”这样的话题来呼吁大家关注周边城市的医疗条件与物资需求状况。
"Hubei more than one Wuhan" such a question began to call attention to the surrounding cities medical conditions and material needs.
“武汉本地都有这么多缺的，周围的县级市、乡镇更是，感觉整块像个黑洞。
"Wuhan has so many local shortages, around the county-level city, township, feel like a black hole block.
”无力感和拒绝不掉的物资信息仍然一波波袭来，这个没有回武汉过年的年轻人，几天来一直窝在重庆的出租屋里，一步步逼着自己，去做更多的对接。
Incompetence and refusal of material information still hit waves, the young man who did not return to Wuhan for the New Year, has been cooped up in a rental house in Chongqing for several days, pushing himself to do more docking.
有人向他问起清关问题，未曾接受过专业志愿者培训的梅浩宇赶紧发朋友圈求助。
He was asked about customs clearance, and Mei Haoyu, who had not been trained as a volunteer, rushed to help out with friends.
“我是一个没有插上电源的电插座，装作自己很有电的样子。
"I was an unplugged electrical outlet and pretended I had a lot of electricity.
”每天16个小时趴在电脑前调配捐赠物资席卷朋友圈的医疗物资紧缺信息，是从除夕夜开始的。
Starting on New Year's Eve, 16 hours a day sprawling the computer with donated supplies and desperately short messages of medical supplies to sweep the circle of friends.
来武汉三年的湖南人陈晨加入志愿者团队，是被好友的一张照片触动。
Three years in Wuhan, Hunan Chen Chen joined the volunteer team, is touched by a good friend's photograph.
那是在除夕夜，一位认识多年的护士好友给陈晨发来自己“全副武装”的照片。
It was on New Year's Eve that a nurse friend of mine, who had known her for many years, sent Chen Chen his "well-armed" picture.
防护服面罩上浓密的水汽模糊了朋友的脸。
The thick vapor on the protective mask blurred the friend's face.
陈晨护士朋友的隔离服自拍照。
Nurse Chen took photos of her friend's isolation suit.
聊天中，陈晨得知，护士朋友身边已有同事被感染隔离，而医院医疗用具又不够，“其实我挺怕的”。
Chat, Chen Chen learned that nurses and friends around colleagues have been infected isolation, and hospital medical equipment is not enough, "I am quite scared."
朋友的这句话让他大受触动，他加入了一个志愿小组，陌生的24人，志愿负责协调武汉市内医疗物资运输。
Touched by his friend's words, he joined a volunteer group of 24 volunteers to coordinate the transportation of medical supplies within Wuhan city.
陈晨是武汉某娱乐场所的投资人之一，平时结交广，社会经验也多。
Chen Chen is one of the investors in a place of entertainment in Wuhan, usually with a wide range of social experience.
当源源不断的求助信息涌向陈晨时，这些人脉成为了有力的资源，联系运输车队、发起朋友圈捐赠号召……除了睡觉，陈晨几乎每天16个小时都趴在手机和电脑屏幕前，处理各种民间捐赠物资的调配。
As a steady stream of calls for help poured in to Chen Chenchen, these connections became a powerful resource, connecting convoys, launching a call for donations... Chen spent almost 16 hours a day, besides sleeping, on her cell phone and computer screen, working on various private donations.
“我的打字速度倒在这几天练起来了。
"I've been practicing my typing speed these days.
”陈晨说自己没时间恐慌，也没时间出门，更没时间搭理质疑他的那些人。
Chen said she had no time to panic, no time to go out and no time to talk to those who questioned him.
陈晨线上工作群的部分记录让陈晨特别自豪的是一群来自北京和深圳的中学生，把一大批防护物资（包括2000瓶消毒液、杜邦1422A医用防化服/雷克兰防化服各500套、护目罩1000支、医用口罩5000个、医用消毒液1000瓶等）交到了陈晨手中，他说这让他有一种突如其来的社会责任感。
Chen Chen, who is particularly proud of a group of high school students from Beijing and Shenzhen, gave Chen Chen a sudden sense of social responsibility by handing over a large quantity of protective materials, including 2,000 bottles of disinfectant, 500 medical chemical suits / Raekeland suits, 1,000 eye masks, 5,000 medical masks and 1,000 bottles of medical disinfectant.
陈晨称，和他联系的中学生是北京的刘同学，这批物资是由一个叫“守护白衣”的志愿组织捐献，刘同学是组织中的一员。
Chen said that the middle school student he contacted was a classmate from Beijing, and the supplies were donated by a volunteer organization called "Guardian White," of which Liu was a member.
据深圳电视台1月25日报道，“守护白衣”志愿组织依靠各筹款渠道筹得19余万的善款，核心13名成员是来自北京和深圳的高中生，他们临时集结起“守护白衣”，目前已经联络起多地志愿者正在进行紧张的物资购买和派送等工作。
The organization relies on fundraising channels to raise more than 190,000 donations, with a core of 13 high school students from Beijing and Shenzhen who have temporarily assembled to protect the white dress and are already contacting volunteers to buy and deliver supplies.
陈晨很想感谢他们，要感谢的人还有很多，但“这几天我眼里只有微信头像，没有脸”。
Chen Chen would like to thank them, there are many people to thank, but "these days my eyes only micro-head, no face."
大量的物资通过临时组队的陌生志愿者们，接力送到了疫区的医院里。
Large quantities of supplies were delivered to hospitals in the affected areas through a relay of unknown volunteers who had been temporarily assembled.
武汉大学中南医院一名医生告诉记者，向社会求助接受捐赠的信息发出后，收到了很多捐赠物资，医疗物资用量巨大，每天收到的物资只能保证未来3-4天左右的用量。
A doctor at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital told reporters that after sending out messages asking the society to accept donations, he received a lot of donations and huge amounts of medical supplies.
但并非所有社会捐赠的物资都能直接被医院所用。
But not all the materials donated by society can be used directly by hospitals.
不合格物资会被拒收，或由医院统一保管，可用物资经检查后才被下发到各个科室和部门。
Non-conforming materials are rejected or kept by the hospital as a whole, and available materials are inspected before being distributed to sections and departments.
被质疑私吞和骗子难以计数的捐赠信息和多家医院的物资需求，共同在网上流传着，混乱感包裹着身处其中的志愿者们，除了信息滞后这个严重问题以外，如影随形的还有各种怀疑志愿者私吞的质疑声音。
Innumerable donations of information and requests for supplies from hospitals have been circulated online, and a sense of confusion surrounds the volunteers, along with serious questions about delayed information and suspicions of misappropriation.
有多年志愿者经验的湖南人陈莎莎目前在上海从事公益咨询行业，如今她30多人的团队正联合其他数百名义工一起忙碌。
Chen Sasha, a Hunan volunteer with many years of experience, works in Shanghai as a volunteer, and now has a team of more than 30 people working with hundreds of other volunteers.
相比其他物资，口罩是防呼吸道感染最关键、性价比最高的屏障。
Compared with other materials, respirators are the most critical and cost-effective barrier to respiratory infection.
当得知武汉医护人员急缺口罩时，莎莎团队志愿协助深圳一家捐赠口罩的公司进行事实调研和医院匹配工作。
Sasha's team volunteered to assist a Shenzhen-based mask-donating company in fact-finding and hospital matching when it learned that Wuhan medical staff were in urgent need of a mask.
莎莎称，事实调研就是在收到申领者相关医师、工作证明后，团队会进行事实核查，依据后台数据，按照申领机构的轻重缓急，将资源配给最急需的地方，还有义工负责找物流运输或者发货。
Sasha said the fact-finding was a fact-finding exercise conducted by the team after receipt of a medical practitioner and work certificate from the claimant. Based on background data, the team allocated resources to the areas of greatest need in accordance with the priorities of the claimant organization, and volunteers were responsible for finding logistics or shipping.
自1月23日开始发货以来，莎莎团队四天内向全国多家医疗结构发出100余万只口罩。
Since shipments began on January 23, Sasha's team has distributed more than a million masks to medical structures across the country in four days.
27日陈莎莎调研全湖北已经断货的医院记录对于捐赠公司的产品质量，莎莎团队会拍下捐赠方产品规格图片，提前发给医院，经过医院审核后同意后，莎莎团队才联系物流发货。
The team will take pictures of the donor's product specifications and send them to the hospital in advance. Only after approval by the hospital can the Sasha team contact the logistics department for shipment.
但令她“力不从心”的是一线情况每天在变，这家医院上午还缺，下午就可能收到了100万只口罩，而网上信息还没更新，物资仍在蜂拥而至。
But what has overwhelmed her is the daily shift in the hospital's morning shortage, the possibility of receiving a million face masks in the afternoon, and the lack of updated information on the Internet.
还有一次受困于物流条件和人手不足，当天的需求订单无奈延迟了一天发货，陈莎莎就接到电话骂自己是骗子。
In another instance, struggling with logistics conditions and staffing shortages, the same day demand orders had to be delayed by a day of shipping, Chen Sasha received a phone call calling herself a liar.
最近几天，发出接受物资捐赠海报的医院越来越多。
In recent days, an increasing number of hospitals have issued posters for donations of materials.
原本只有包括武汉大学人民医院在内的武汉众多三甲医院通过官微、微信群直接发布海报，面向社会公开征集口罩、防护服等医疗物资，如今湖北省的众多县市医院，甚至广州也有医院发出接受捐助的海报。
Many hospitals in Wuhan, including Wuhan University People's Hospital, have directly issued posters through official and micro-credit groups, and openly solicited medical supplies such as masks and protective clothing for the public.
“大家什么都缺，但就是不知道医院有了多少，还缺多少？”应接不暇的信息让梅浩宇意识到，有一些问题是志愿者难以解决和推动的， “需要一个更高效的机制来配合”。
"Everyone is short of everything, but they just don't know how many hospitals there are and how much they are short of." Meihao-woo realized that there are some problems that volunteers find difficult to solve and promote and "need a more efficient mechanism to match them."
程序员志愿者4天建起物资对接平台除夕夜，一个近500人的武汉本土群里没有讨论春晚节目，大家讨论着如何帮助武汉渡过难关。
On New Year's Eve, a group of nearly 500 Wuhan residents did not discuss the program and discussed how to help Wuhan tide over the difficulties.
远在700多公里外的西安人白宇也被朋友邀请进了这个“加油群”，天南海北的人聚在一起商量讨论，让他感觉振奋。
More than 700 kilometers away from Xi'an Bai Yu was also invited into the "refueling group" by friends, people from all over the world gathered to discuss the discussion, let him feel excited.
白宇是音乐学院毕业的演员，在群里很活跃，他结识了几名武汉的程序员，热议中他们有了建一个医疗物资信息共享平台的想法。
Bai Yu, an actor who graduated from the Conservatory of Music and is active in the group, got acquainted with several programmers in Wuhan, and discussed the idea of building a platform for sharing information on medical supplies.
很快，1月25日晚，最初的几名程序员就搭建出湖北医疗物资供需信息平台的雏形并上线。
Soon, January 25 night, the first few programmers set up Hubei medical supplies supply and demand information platform prototype and on-line.
由最开始的3名核心程序员，到如今的15人的核心团队和1000多名志愿者，白宇和他的程序员朋友以及志愿者们在4天内，不仅进行了三次产品迭代，还完成了308家湖北省内缺口医院信息的搜集，目前已核实的有103家。
From the first three core programmers to today's core group of 15 and more than 1,000 volunteers, Bai Yu and his programmer friends and volunteers have not only conducted three product iterations in four days, but also completed the collection of information on 308 gap hospitals in Hubei Province, 103 of which have been verified so far.
平台志愿者团队分工明确，涵盖产品、前端、后台、测试工作、运营客服等。
Platform volunteer team clear division of labour, covering products, front-end, back-office, testing work, operating customer service, etc.
湖北医疗物资供需信息平台初创时的工作群“平台建设是持续性的。
When Hubei Medical Materials Supply and Demand Information Platform was set up "Platform construction is continuous."
”白宇说，26日晚，经过技术迭代，平台2.0版本新增了物流车队信息，解决了流量过载等问题后重新上线。
After a technical iteration on the night of May 26, the platform added logistics fleet information to version 2.0, addressing issues such as traffic overload, Bai said.
27日，团队里还在不断涌进新鲜力量，新加入的程序员和志愿者都有序支招。
On the 27th, the team is still pouring in fresh strength, new programmers and volunteers are orderly move.
湖北医疗物资供需信息平台28日晚，白宇在朋友圈发出平台3.0版本。
Hubei medical supplies supply and demand information platform on the night of 28, Baiyu in the circle of friends issued platform 3.0 version.
他称这次更新考虑到了县市医疗物资倾斜和全国性医疗物资缺口的问题，会新增浏览量功能以便捐赠者综合衡量医疗物资配给情况，也正在加紧收集全国除湖北省以外的多省医疗资源缺口信息。
He said the update takes into account the tilt in medical supplies in counties and cities and the nationwide shortfall in medical supplies, adding new views to allow donors to measure medical rationing in an integrated manner, and is stepping up efforts to gather information on health-care resource gaps across the country, except in Hubei province.
那是他们建立平台的初心，现在正在一点点儿实现。
That was their initial intention to build the platform, and it is being realized little by little.
迭代后的湖北医疗物资供需信息平台白宇和志愿者们的努力换来了平台技术、数据每天一迭代的成绩，但他们仍然希望有一个更有实力，最好是官方的组织来运营这个平台。
Iterative Hubei medical materials supply and demand information platform Bai Yu and volunteers in exchange for platform technology, data iterative results every day, but they still want a more powerful, preferably official organization to operate the platform.
庞大的医院信息搜集、核对工作常常让白宇和志愿者们吃不消，连日里不断地打电话、加微信询问医疗物资规格、缺口信息等让白宇疲惫不堪，甚至还患上了感冒。
Bai and the volunteers were often overwhelmed by the huge collection and collation of hospital information. He spent days phoning, quizzing him about specifications and gaps in medical supplies, and even catching a cold.
陈莎莎说，“湖北医疗物资供需信息平台”的上线是中国民众众志成城的体现，但是她也建议政府引导建立“供需信息匹配实时更新平台”，防止医用物资坐地起价，指导社会资源流向最急需的地方。
Chen said the launch of the Hubei Medical Materials Supply and Demand Information Platform was a reflection of the Chinese people's determination to achieve success, but she also suggested that the government guide the establishment of a "real-time update platform for matching supply and demand information" to prevent medical supplies from starting prices and directing social resources to where they are most needed.
目前，一些民间捐赠物资仍然可以直接对接给有需要的医院。
At present, some non-governmental donations can still be docked directly to hospitals in need.
在湖北医疗物资需求信息平台上，捐赠者可以依据已核实信息与医院进行对接。
On Hubei Medical Material Requirement Information Platform, the donor can connect with the hospital according to the verified information.
（文中白宇、陈晨系化名，王超、丁宁对本文亦有贡献）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(In the article Bai Yu, Chen Chengning alias, Wang Chao, Tingning also contribute to this article) less than welcome to share with friends, if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
危机下的民间志愿者：把自己逼成超级对接平台。
Civil Volunteers in Crisis: Forcing Yourself into a Super Docking Platform.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "危机下的民间志愿者：把自己逼成超级对接平台";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情围城，他们自发而上";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
