武昌医院院长刘智明的最后人生路。
The last life path of Liu Zhiming.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
（本文首发于丁香园）在上了 ECMO 17 小时后，刘智明还是没有等来转机。
After 17 hours of ECMO, Liu Zhiming still hasn't waited for a turnaround.
ECMO 被视为挽救肺炎患者生命的终极手段之一，在患者眼里，这能让他们「起死回生」：新生儿成功率为 70％ 左右，普通患者为 50% 到 60%，危重症患者则低至 20% 到 30% 。
ECMO is seen as one of the ultimate means of saving the lives of patients with pneumonia, which is seen as "life-saving": around 70 per cent for newborns, 50 to 60 per cent for ordinary patients and as low as 20 to 30 per cent for critically ill patients.
可这患者的最后一道生命防线，失守了。
But the patient's last line of defense was broken.
据武汉市卫健委公告，武昌医院院长刘智明系在抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎（下文简称「新冠肺炎」）疫情中不幸染病，经全力救治无效去世，于 2 月 18 日 10 时 54 分去世，享年 51 岁。
Liu Zhiming, director of Wuchang Hospital, died on February 18 at 10: 54 after receiving full medical treatment after suffering from the latest outbreak of coronavirus pneumonia (coronavirus pneumonia).
从刘智明户籍信息得知，刘智明并非是此前媒体报道和百度百科显示的 1969 年生，他生于 1968 年 12 月 28 日。
Liu Zhiming, born on December 28, 1968, was not born in 1969, according to Liu Zhiming's household registration, according to media reports and Baidu Encyclopedia.
他的生死，在前一晚曾引起轩然大波。
His life and death had caused an uproar the night before.
率先披露刘智明经抢救无效去世的消息者，是微博认证为「湖北省卫健委宣教中心党委书记、主任」的「@全科健康」。
The first person to disclose the ineffectual death of Liu Zhiming is the "@ General Health" certified by Weibo as "Secretary and Director of the Party Committee of Hubei Wei Boarding and Education Center."
此前一晚，2 月 17 日 21 时 49 分，他发布消息称：「年前诗会音容犹在，今后医界再无兄长！」随后，一些媒体发报道，各大资讯客户端纷纷推送。
The night before, at 21: 49 on February 17, he released news: "The poem will be still alive and well, and there will be no more brothers in the medical profession!"
2 月 18 日凌晨 1 时，刘智明妻子对媒体称「丈夫还在抢救」，@全科健康 删除微博。
February 18 1: 00 a.m., Liu Zhiming's wife told the media that "the husband is still rescued" @ General Health deleted Weibo.
刘智明是第一个因为新冠肺炎殉职的在职医院院长。
Liu Zhiming was the first in-service hospital director to die with pneumonia.
此前，刘智明的同事、59 岁的武昌医院护士柳帆于 2 月 14 日去世。
Liu Zhiming, a 59-year-old nurse at Wuchang Hospital, died on February 14.
而于 2 月 7 日殉职的武汉市中心医院李文亮医生，是刘智明武汉大学的师弟。
Dr. Li Wenliang of Wuhan Central Hospital, who died on February 7, is a teacher at Wuhan University in Liu Zhiming.
18 日早晨 9 点 58 分，丁香园拨通了刘智明妻子蔡利萍的电话。
At 9: 58 a.m. on the 18th, the clove garden dialed Liu Zhiming's wife, Cai Liping.
她情绪低落，语气凝重，称「我无法回答你们的问题，也不愿意受到打扰」。
"I can't answer your questions, and I don't want to be disturbed," she said, in a low, solemn tone.
47 岁的蔡利萍，在武汉市第三医院光谷院区重症病区任护士长。
Cai Liping, 47, is the head nurse in Guanggu courtyard area of Wuhan Third Hospital.
2015 年，刘智明由武汉市第三人民医院调任武昌医院，任副院长，此后升任院长。
In 2015, Liu Zhiming was transferred from Wuhan Third People's Hospital to Wuchang Hospital, where he served as Vice-President.
刘智明有两个孩子，小儿子还在上初中。
Liu Zhiming has two children and his youngest son is still in junior high school.
如今，妻子没有了丈夫，孩子失去了父亲。
Now that the wife has lost her husband, the child has lost her father.
我去陪着你，好吗蔡利萍脖子上有一道深深的疤痕，清晰可见，那是 2019 年 11 月她做颈椎手术留下的，此后，她在家休养。
I'll go with you, okay? Cai Liping has a deep scar on her neck, visible from her cervical surgery in November 2019, and she's been at home ever since.
当疫情袭来时，她还有一个月假期没休完，可她坐不住了。
When the outbreak hit, she still had a month of vacation to spare, but she couldn't sit tight.
「孩子们可能忙不过来，我就提前回来了。
"The children may be too busy, so I came back early.
」蔡利萍曾对媒体这么解释。
"Cai Liping had explained this to the media.
她口里的孩子，是一群 90 后为主力的 ICU 护士，护士们也视她为「蔡妈」。
Her children, a group of 90 after the main ICU nurses, nurses also see her as "Cai Ma."
「蔡妈，我要哆啦 A 梦！」「我要佩奇！」进隔离病房前，蔡利萍会一遍遍检查护士们的防护衣穿戴，并在白色的防护衣上，写上鼓劲的话语，画上一个卡通形象。
"Tsai Ma, I want Doraemon!" "I want Page!" Before entering the isolation ward, Cai Liping would check nurses' protective clothing over and over again and write encouraging words and a cartoon image on the white protective clothing.
「哪是什么战士，都是一群孩子。
"What is a warrior? A group of children.
」护士们遇到问题、受了委屈，都会找她诉苦，甚至哭鼻子。
"When the nurses had problems and were wronged, they would complain to her and even cry.
从她这，总能得到劝解和安慰。
There was always comfort and persuasion in her.
让她挂在心上的还有丈夫。
It was her husband who kept her in mind.
她给丈夫起的微信备注是「小肚鸡肠老公」：「你每天中午 2:00 给我打电话，不然我不放心，晚上也不接电话。
"You call me at 2: 00 noon every day, otherwise I don't feel comfortable and I don't answer the phone at night.
」2 月 3 日她对丈夫说，中午 2 时是她从隔离病区下班的时间，她的班次是从早 6 时到中午 13 时，共计 7 个小时。
On 3 February, she told her husband that, at 2 p.m., she was off duty from the isolation ward and that her shift lasted seven hours, from 6 a.m. to 13 noon.
出了隔离病区，下班后，蔡利萍脱下防护服，里头的深绿色的短袖洗手衣，早已被汗湿透。
Out of the quarantine area, after work, Cai Liping took off protective clothing, inside the dark green short-sleeved washing clothes, has been wet through sweat.
武汉市第三医院宣传科的李菡见证了蔡利萍对刘智明的思念。
Li Han of Wuhan Third Hospital Propaganda Section witnessed the yearning for Liu Zhiming.
2 月 4 日，早晨进隔离病区前、中午出隔离病区后，她的头一件事都是给丈夫拨视频通话。
The first thing she did on 4 February, before going to the quarantine area in the morning and leaving the quarantine area at noon, was to dial a video call to her husband.
连续打了 4 次，都没有接通。
There were four consecutive calls, none of which were connected.
那时，刘智明正躺在武昌医院的重症病区，戴着呼吸机。
At that time, Liu Zhiming was lying in the critically ill area of Wuchang Hospital, wearing a respirator.
谁也没想到，刘智明会倒在这场仗刚打响的时候。
No one expected Liu Zhiming to fall at the very beginning of the battle.
在武汉市卫健委 1月 20 日公布的首批 61 家发热门诊医疗机构名单中，武昌医院和武汉市第三医院均列其中。
Wuchang Hospital and Wuhan Third Hospital are among the first 61 out-patient facilities with fever announced by Wuhan Health Commission on January 20.
「战疫」，让一度各自为战的夫妻档，再次被牵在了一起。
"Battle Disease," so that once separate husband and wife file, was again led together.
1 月 21 日，刘智明给妻子打电话，告知武昌医院要在 2 天内转运患者，进行院区改造，所有病房均改造为隔离病房，接收发热患者。
On January 21, Liu Zhiming telephoned his wife and told Wuchang Hospital to transfer patients within two days, carry out the renovation of the hospital area, all wards have been converted into isolation wards to receive patients with fever.
这让蔡利萍有些担心，因为刘智明已经轻微发热、全身没劲了好几天，她担心他的身体「撑不住」。
This worries Cai Liping, who has had a mild fever and has been languishing for days, worried that his body will "not hold up."
当时，两人还不知道这是新冠肺炎的症状，警觉性没有这么强。
At the time, they did not know this was the symptom of new crown pneumonia, less alert.
此时，蔡利萍也接到通知，武汉市第三医院作为武昌医院的定点支持医院，接收转运患者。
At this time, Cai Liping was also informed that Wuhan Third Hospital as the designated support hospital of Wuchang Hospital, receiving patients in transit.
1 月 22 日凌晨 4 时，她接到丈夫电话，请她帮忙收拾一点换洗衣物，因为医院很忙，他就不回家了，马上要上班。
On 22 January, at 4 a.m., she received a telephone call from her husband asking her to help with a few changes of clothes, as the hospital was very busy and he would not be home and would be coming to work soon.
蔡利萍对媒体回忆，当时她感觉丈夫呼吸有点急促，提醒丈夫他呼吸有点问题，不能轻视。
Cai Liping told the media that she felt her husband breathing a little bit short of breath, remind her husband that he breathing problems, can not despise.
凌晨 4 时丈夫还在工作，这加剧了蔡利萍的不安。
At 4 a. m. her husband was still at work, which added to Cai's uneasiness.
到了 1 月 23 日下午，她再次接到的却是坏消息：刘智明进了重症病区。
On the afternoon of January 23, she received the bad news again: Liu Zhiming was in the critically ill.
1 月 23 日，刘智明曾前往隔离病房，查看病房改造进度。
On January 23, Liu Zhiming went to the isolation ward to check the progress of the ward renovation.
武昌医院医生魏华曾在当天上午偶遇刘智明，「他脸色憔悴，黑眼圈很重，感觉蛮累的样子」，魏华回忆。
Dr. Wei Hua, a doctor at Wuchang Hospital, met Liu Zhiming that morning. "His face was haggard, his black eyes were heavy and he felt very tired," Wei recalled.
「第一次在病区名单看到刘智明这个名字，我们第一反应都是这是同名同姓吧……（院长）这么年轻，肯定能扛过去的。
"When we first saw the name of Liu Zhiming on the list of affected areas, our first reaction was that it was the same name...
」武昌医院重症监护室的一名医生说。
"said a doctor at the intensive care unit of Wuchang Hospital.
当天，刘智明被确诊为感染新冠肺炎。
On the same day, Liu Zhiming was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
据湖北省卫健委通报，1 月 23 日，武汉市新增确诊病例 70 例，累计病例 495 例。
On January 23, more than 70 new cases were diagnosed in Wuhan, with a total of 495 cases, Hubei Wei reported.
而蔡利萍也于当天接到通知，她所在的光谷院区成为武汉市第二批发热定点医院，要在 3 天内完成改造和患者转运。
Cai Liping was also informed that day, her Guanggu courtyard area became Wuhan's second batch of fever-designated hospitals, within three days to complete the transformation and patient transit.
20 多位重症患者的转运，难度大、风险高。
Transshipment of more than 20 patients with severe diseases is difficult and high risk.
当时武汉大部分医院的重症监护室都已满员，找到接收患者的医院很难。
The intensive care unit in most hospitals in Wuhan was full at the time and finding a hospital to receive patients was difficult.
不眠不休了两天，蔡利萍和 ICU 的医生、护士们一道，转运安置了所有患者。
After two sleepless days, Cai Liping, along with the doctors and nurses of ICU, transited and settled all the patients.
蔡利萍在 ICU 看护患者图片来源：武汉市第三医院 江泓颖 李菡事业和家庭，两头拉扯着蔡利萍。
Cai Liping looks after patients in ICU Photo Source: Wuhan Third Hospital Han Wang Han cause and family, pulling two end pull Cai Liping.
「不好」、「很不好」、「越来越不好」、「一度氧饱和低到 80，怎么都上不去」，蔡利萍陆续接到丈夫的主诊医生发来的病情。
"Not good," "very bad," "less and less good," "once oxygen saturation to 80, how not to go," Cai Liping continued to receive her husband's doctor from the disease.
干了二十多年医护，夫妻俩都明白，血氧饱和低意味着什么。
After more than 20 years of medical attention, the couple understood what low blood oxygen saturation meant.
「刘院长是个很乐观的人，确诊感染后，他看着自己片子、给自己开医嘱。
"Dean Liu is a very optimistic person, after the diagnosis of infection, he looked at his own film, to his own doctor's orders.
」武昌医院神经外科胡俊医生说，「可后来病情恶化，他连说话都没有力气了。
"But then he became so ill that he had no strength left to speak," said Dr. Hu Jun, a neurosurgeon at Wuchang Hospital.
」密集的排班、丈夫不断恶化的病情，蔡利萍兼顾的吃力可想而知。
"Intensive scheduling, her husband's deteriorating health, Cai Liping can imagine the struggle to balance.
她不是没有想过有个取舍。
She had not thought of a trade-off.
她真的，真的很想放下这一切去陪丈夫，她先后问过几次丈夫，「我来照顾你吧？」可刘智明的回复一如既往，拒绝，拒绝，还是拒绝。
She really, really want to leave all this to accompany her husband, she has asked her husband several times, "I will take care of you?" But Liu Zhiming's reply, as usual, refused, refused, or refused.
2 月 4 日，蔡利萍出了隔离病区，脱下防护服，深绿色的短袖洗手衣早已被汗湿透图片来源：武汉市第三医院 李菡1 月 27 日，武汉市第三医院光谷院区正式开始接收患者。
Drenched with sweat, Cai Liping left the quarantined area on February 4, taking off her protective clothing. The dark-green, short-sleeved hand-washing clothes were drenched with sweat.
一天半里，所有病区全满。
For a day and a half, all areas are full.
蔡利萍所在的重症病区平时就被视为「离死神最近的地方」，随着疫情的日益加剧，更是让人踹不过气来。
Cai Liping's severe disease area is usually regarded as the "nearest place to death", as the epidemic intensifies, people are unable to kick the air.
蔡利萍心疼「孩子们」。
Cai Liping loves "the children."
心疼护士们体力透支后，晕倒在更衣间；心疼护士们换班后，需要吸氧；心疼护士们饿得犯了胃病，还要喝咖啡、红牛苦撑；心疼护士们隔离服下湿透了的洗手衣。
Heartache nurses exhausted, collapsed in the locker room; distressed nurses after the shift, need oxygen; heartbroken nurses hungry stomach trouble, but also coffee, red bull bitter, heart-ache nurses under the soaking wet clothes.
作为护士长，蔡利萍要操心的事太多，危重患者、医护团队的磨合、护士们的想法，甚至设备仪器的调试和使用。
As head nurse, Cai has too many things to worry about, critical patients, the running of medical teams, nurses' ideas, and even the commissioning and use of equipment and instruments.
病区总共调配了 14 台呼吸机，不同的原产国，不同的型号，这就意味着需要不同的配件。
A total of 14 respirators were deployed in the affected areas, with different countries of origin and different models, which meant that different accessories were needed.
为了短时间内使这些机器配足配件全部启用，蔡利萍找社区卫生服务中心、找厂商、找自己的人脉......终于全部配齐，让所有危重患者，都及时用上了支持生命的呼吸机。
In order to make these machines fully functional in a short period of time, Cai Liping looked for community health services, manufacturers, find their own contacts... Finally, all the critically ill patients, timely use of the life-supporting breathing machine.
随着病情的加重，刘智明也开始上呼吸机。
With the aggravation of his condition, Liu Zhiming also began to use the ventilator.
1 月 24 日，他被送进 ICU，经抢救后，病情有所好转。
On 24 January, he was admitted to the ICU, where he recovered and recovered.
2 月 3 日晚 21 时 9 分，刘智明跟妻子发微信说，「昨晚折腾了一晚上，怎么搞氧合上不来，我以为我要死了，缺氧，烦躁，全身虚汗。
At 2109 hours on the evening of February 3, Liu Zhiming told his wife, "I thought I was going to die from lack of oxygen, restlessness and sweating all over my body.
今早打了呼吸机，好多了！」当日，在跟丈夫微信视频时，蔡利萍哭着对刘智明说：「我来陪你吧！」屏幕那头，不能说话的刘智明，摇了摇头。
I had a ventilator this morning, much better! "Cai Liping cried to her husband in a video message saying," Let me accompany you! "Liu Zhiming, unable to speak, shook her head.
「院长会问我们，对工资薪酬满不满意」「院长身材高大，一米八多，眼睛大而又有神。
"The dean will ask us if he is not satisfied with his salary." "The dean is tall, more than a metre and over, his eyes are large and divinely fixed.
」武昌医院重症监护室护士李翰昭说。
Li Han-chiu, nurse in intensive care unit at Wuchang Hospital.
刘智明是湖北十堰人，1991 年毕业于武汉大学，特别擅长神经外科疾病手术治疗。
Liu Zhiming is a native of Shiyan, Hubei Province. He graduated from Wuhan University in 1991 and specializes in neurosurgical treatment.
在同事眼里，他是个很有人情味的人。
In the eyes of his colleagues, he is a very human being.
王苡沐医生是 2019 年 7 月毕业后来的武昌医院，在精神心理科任职。
Dr. Bao Bao Wang was a graduate of Wuchang Hospital in July 2019 and served in the Psychology Department.
2018 年 11 月，刘智明带队到黑龙江省齐齐哈尔医学院招聘，签下了王苡沐和她的几个同学。
In November 2018, Liu Zhiming led the team to the Qiqihar Medical College in Heilongjiang Province, where he signed Wang Bao and several of her classmates.
武昌医院有三个院区，西院区是总部，和东院区隔一条马路，但跟南湖院区就相隔 16 公里远。
Wuchang Hospital has three courtyard area, the west courtyard area is the headquarters, and the east courtyard area is separated by a road, but with the south lake courtyard area is 16 kilometers away.
王苡沐和新入职的几位医生都在南湖院区工作，由于南湖院区没有职工宿舍，所以她们起初被安排在了西院区职工宿舍。
Wang Baozhi and the newly appointed doctors all worked in the South Lake District. As there was no staff dormitory in the South Lake District, they were initially placed in the staff quarters of the Western Campus.
「本来医院是没有给职工租房的待遇。
"Originally, the hospital did not give workers the right to rent accommodation.
院长知道我们几个新同事来回上班远，就在南湖院区外的小区，为我们争取了两套屋子，一套给女生，一套给男生，租金由医院出。
The dean knew that several of our new colleagues were going back and forth to work, just outside the South Lake District, and got us two rooms, one for the girls and one for the boys, the rent of which was paid by the hospital.
」对于刘智明的「特殊关照」，王苡沐和新同事们很感恩，这让第一次离开黑龙江、在外地生活的她们找到了家的感觉。
"Thanks to his" special care, "Wang Bao and his new colleagues found a home for those who had left Heilongjiang for the first time.
在王苡沐眼里，刘院长「人超级好」，不论是对同事，还是对陌生患者。
At the bathe of Wang's eyes, President Liu was "super-good," both to colleagues and to strangers.
精神心理科是有封闭病房的，这些患者属于弱势群体，不能回家过节，刘智明都会利用休息时间，逢年过节去病房慰问，「会给患者们带水果，还有月饼等时令食物」。
Psycho-psychological departments are closed wards, these patients belong to vulnerable groups, can not go home for the holidays, Liu Zhiming will use the rest time, the festival to the ward condolences, "will bring the patients fruit, mooncakes and other seasonal food."
在给新员工面试时，刘智明提问的第一个问题是：当患者误解医生时，医生如何处理？「院长还会问，我们对工资待遇满不满意。
When interviewing new employees, Liu's first question was: What does a doctor do when a patient misunderstands a doctor? "The dean also asks," We are not satisfied with our pay. "
」王苡沐感恩于刘智明给他们这些新入职员工的福利。
"Wang was grateful to Liu Zhiming for giving them the benefits of these new recruits.
最后一次见到刘智明，王苡沐是在职工食堂。
The last time I saw Liu Zhiming, Wang Baked in the staff canteen.
「偶然碰到刘院长，他跟其他院领导介绍，我们是他从东北招过来的美女。
"Occasionally met President Liu, he and other hospital leaders introduced, we are him from the Northeast recruit beautiful women.
刘院长知道我们在东北习惯了冬天有暖气，而武汉的冬天阴冷，特意说，有什么生活需要跟他提，医院会尽可能解决。
President Liu knew that we have been used to winter heating in the northeast, and Wuhan cold winter, especially said that what needs to be mentioned with him, the hospital will be as far as possible.
」王苡沐说，这让她们在武汉的第一个冬天，多了些暖意。
"Wang Bao Bao said that this made their first winter in Wuhan a little warmer.
刘智明去看望武汉市第三人民医院同事的宝宝图源：长江日报「说话办事都非常接地气，每个人有问题时，他都会帮忙解决，解决不了的，也总会出主意。
Changjiang Daily "Everything is very grounding. When everyone has a problem, he will help solve it. If he can't solve it, he will always give an idea.
」武汉市第三医院神经外科孟亮说。
"Wuhan Third Hospital Neurosurgery Meng Liang said.
和刘智明共事五年的胡俊认为，刘智明是个有想法、也善于做事的人。
Mr. Hu, who has worked with Mr. Liu for five years, says Mr. Liu is an 'thinking' and 'doing' person.
2015 年，胡俊与刘智明一同从武汉市第三医院调至武昌医院。
In 2015, Hu Jun and Liu Zhiming were transferred from Wuhan Third Hospital to Wuchang Hospital.
此前，刘智明曾在武汉市第三医院任副院长、医务科主任和神经外科主任。
Previously, Liu Zhiming served as Vice-President, Director of Medical Section and Director of Neurosurgery in Wuhan Third Hospital.
据魏华回忆，刘智明来到武昌医院后，医院发展迅猛，效益翻番，口碑提高，职工的薪资涨幅也很大。
According to Wei, Liu Zhiming came to Wuchang Hospital, the rapid development of the hospital, double the benefits, improve word of mouth, workers and salaries have also increased significantly.
他建立了神经外科和脑卒中中心，医院门诊、急诊科和 ICU 改变也非常大。
He has set up neurosurgery and stroke centers, and hospital clinics, emergency departments and ICU have changed dramatically.
2017 年，武昌医院通过三级医院评审。
In 2017, Wuchang Hospital passed the level III hospital evaluation.
同年，在刘智明主导下，武昌医院一期工程开工。
In the same year, under the leadership of Liu Zhiming, Wuchang Hospital Phase I project began.
目前新的住院大楼已经改好，正在装修。
The new in-patient building has now been renovated and is being renovated.
除此之外，刘智明对医院人事进行大刀阔斧地改革，高薪引进人才。
In addition, Liu Zhiming to the hospital personnel overhauled the high-paying introduction of talent.
魏华说，「他提拔的主任都是有才华、有能力的人。
"The directors he promoted were talented and competent people," Wei said.
这是医院 20 年以来没有过的。
The hospital hasn't had one in 20 years.
」「住进 ICU 的头几天，院长还经常打电话布置工作。
"" During the first few days of my stay at the ICU, the dean often telephoned to set up the work.
他尽量生活自理，能自己干的事，都不叫我们护士干。
He tried to live on his own, and he didn't ask us nurses to do anything he could.
」李翰昭说，「可上了无创呼吸机后，他就很难再说话了。
"But on the non-invasive ventilator, it is difficult for him to speak," he said.
」没有了刘智明居中指挥的武昌医院，在疫情中超负荷运转着。
"Without Liu Zhiming's center-directed Wuchang hospital, it was overrun by the epidemic.
「 2 月 6 日凌晨 3 点，武汉下着冷雨，在武昌和平大道，汪莹鹤开车护送妻子汪晓婷上夜班，用车灯为她照亮前路，让人心酸又感动。
"On February 6, at 3 a.m., it was raining cold in Wuhan. On Wuchang Road of Peace, Wang Ying He escorted his wife, Wang Xiaoping, to the night shift.
」武昌医院官方微博发布了这么一条消息。
The official Weibo service at Wuchang Hospital released the news.
汪晓婷是武昌医院的一名主治医生，为减少传染率，凌晨 3 时她上夜班，她都不坐家里的车，而选择走路，丈夫则开车在身后，用车灯护航。
Wang Xiaoting is a doctor at Wuchang Hospital. To reduce the infection rate, she worked at night at 3: 00 a.m., she did not take the car at home, but chose to walk, her husband driving behind, with car lights escort.
最后的人生路「蔡护士长有时上完班后，会在夜里赶来我们医院，给刘院长陪护。
Last Way of Life "Master Cai sometimes comes to our hospital at night after work to accompany Dean Liu.
」武昌医院重症监护室护士李翰昭说，按常理，重症患者是不允许陪护的，但蔡利萍是武汉为数不多的取得呼吸治疗师 RT 证的护师，她的技能，对救丈夫的命，有所帮助。
Li Han-chiu, a nurse at the intensive care unit at Wuchang Hospital, said patients with serious illnesses were not allowed to accompany them, but Cai Liping was one of the few Wuhan nurses to get an RT certificate as a respiratory therapist.
可在无常的病情前，再多的努力，也一再受挫。
But before the disease can be volatile, no matter how much effort, but also repeatedly frustrated.
武昌医院神经外科胡俊医生说，刘智明在感染初期有发烧、呼吸困难等症状，后期逐渐加重，肺部 CT 显示斑片逐渐遍布他的整个双肺，血氧下降。
Dr. Hu Jun, a neurosurgeon at Wuchang Hospital, said Liu Zhiming had fever, dyspnea and other symptoms at the beginning of the infection.
1 月 25 日晚，空军军医大学医疗队进驻武昌医院。
On the night of January 25, the Air Force Medical University medical team arrived in Wuchang Hospital.
第二天上午，医疗队专家进入武昌医院重症医学科指导救治。
The next morning, the medical team experts into Wuchang Hospital intensive care guidance.
当时，14 名重症患者里包含 4 名极危重患者，其中就有刘智明。
Four of the 14 critically ill patients, including Liu Zhiming, were critically ill at the time.
1 月 24 日，大年三十那天，他转入武昌医院 ICU，医疗队多次对他进行会诊。
On 24 January, on the thirtieth day of the Chinese New Year, he was transferred to the ICU of Wuchang Hospital.
2 月 1 日，胡俊在 ICU 里最后一次见到刘智明，那时，他已经上了无创呼吸机，精神状况还好，但肺部 CT 显示：双肺全白。
On February 1, Hu saw Liu Zhiming for the last time in the ICU. By then, he was on a noninvasive ventilator, in good mental condition, but his lung CT showed that his lungs were all white.
「上无创呼吸机后，院长病情依然不见好转，血氧饱和度也降低的很快。
"After the non-invasive ventilator, the dean's condition still did not improve, blood oxygen saturation also decreased rapidly.
」胡俊医生说。
"said Dr Woo.
能用的手段越来越有限，只剩插管最后一条路。
The means available were becoming more and more limited, leaving only the last avenue of intubation.
天门市第一人民医院麻醉科主任曾解释，插管是危重症病人病情逆转的最后手段之一。
Tianmen City First People's Hospital anesthesiology department has explained that intubation is one of the last means of reversal of critical patients.
2 月 14 日，刘智明病情突然恶化。
On February 14, Liu Zhiming's condition suddenly deteriorated.
据媒体报道，插管需要医护人员使用比三级防护更高级的负压防护服，需要上 ECMO，武昌医院的重症监护室不具备这个条件。
According to media reports, the cannula requires medical staff to use a higher level of negative pressure protective clothing than tertiary protection, requiring ECMO, which is not available in the intensive care unit of Wuchang Hospital.
于是，他被转入华中科技大学同济医院中法新院。
He was transferred to Tongji Hospital, Tongji University of Central China.
央视记者于 2 月 17 日下午去中法医院重症监护室。
CCTV reporter on February 17 afternoon to the Chinese-French Hospital intensive care unit.
他们发现，上着 ECMO 的刘智明，生命体征全靠机器维持，「危重」、「内环境紊乱」、「测不出乳酸」。
They found that Liu Zhiming, with an ECMO, was dependent on machines for vital signs, "critical condition," "internal disturbance" and "undetectable lactic acid."
「他了解我的，他知道我放不下走不开，所以他总说不要。
"He knows me, and he knows I can't let go, so he always says no.
但他自己也是医生，他自己也很清楚，甚至连医疗预嘱都跟主诊医生讲了，他说如果万一，不要插管抢救。
But he, too, was a doctor, and he knew well enough that even his medical advice was given to the attending physician, who said that if it should happen, he would not have to be intubated.
」刘智明确诊的那一天，1 月 23 日，武昌医院开放的 500 张床位马上住满了病人——这也是医院住院病区的全部床位。
The day Liu was diagnosed, on January 23, the 500 beds opened at Wuchang Hospital were immediately filled with patients - the total number of beds in the hospital's inpatient section.
疫情期间，武昌医院最多收治过 700 多位新冠肺炎患者，「大部分是重症」，魏华医生说。
During the outbreak, Wuchang Hospital admitted up to 700 new cases of pneumonia, "most of them critically," Dr. Wei said.
在刘智明确诊后的第二天，1 月 24 日，魏华医生也确诊感染。
On January 24, the day after Liu's diagnosis, Dr. Weihua was also diagnosed with the infection.
根据中国疾控中心新冠肺炎应急响应机制流行病学组在《中华流行病学杂志》上发布的研究，截至 2020 年 2 月 11 日，在为新冠肺炎患者提供诊治服务的 422 家医疗机构中，共有 3019 名医务人员感染了新型冠状病毒（1716 名确诊病例），其中 5 人死亡，粗病死率为 0.3%。
According to a study published in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology by the Epidemiology Unit of the China CDC's New Crown Pneumonia Emergency Response Mechanism, as of February 11, 2020, 3,019 medical personnel (1,716 confirmed cases) had contracted the new coronavirus (coronavirus), 5 of whom died, giving a crude death rate of 0.3%.
按发病日期分布的医务人员比例图片来源：上述论文魏华知道自己不在这个名单中，「之前我们都不敢说有这么多医务人员感染。
Weihua knows she is not on the list. "Before that, we didn't dare to say that there were so many medical staff infected.
直到 2 月15 日，武昌医院才来统计这个数据。
It wasn't until Feb. 15 that Wuchang Hospital counted the numbers.
」由此，魏华推测，医务人员感染新冠肺炎的数据，在近期会持续增长。
As a result, Wei speculated that the number of cases of nosocomial pneumonia among medical staff would continue to grow in the near future.
「在疫情前期，医务人员的防护不到位。
"Medical protection was not in place in the pre-epidemic period.
在第二阶段，防护物资短缺，又造成大批医护感染。
In the second phase, shortages of protective materials resulted in a large number of medical infections.
」全国新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组成员、上海市院内感染质控中心主任胡必杰教授归纳了两点造成大量医护人员感染的原因。
Professor Hu Bijie, director of the Shanghai Hospital Infection Quality Control Center and a member of the National Group of Experts on New Crown Pneumonia, summed up two reasons for the large number of infections among medical personnel.
初期，医护人员对新冠肺炎的认识也有限。
At the beginning, the knowledge of new crown pneumonia was limited.
一位和刘智明熟悉的医生对媒体说，初期的官方宣传是「轻症多，重症少，传播强度低于 SARS」，所以在防护措施上，主要启用二级防护，还未上升到三级。
A doctor familiar with Mr Liu told the press that the initial official announcement was that secondary protection had not yet been upgraded to Class III because of the "low prevalence of mild cases with less severe cases and transmission intensity lower than SARS."
蔡利萍曾于 1 月 24 日对外求援，提出她所在的科室需要 N95 口罩 500 个，护目镜 50 个，防护服 100 件。
Ms. Chua, who asked for help on January 24, said her department needed 500 N95 masks, 50 goggles and 100 protective clothing.
而从 1 月 22 日至今，武昌医院在疫情期间更新了 8 条官方微博，有 3 条是与捐赠物资相关的。
Since January 22, Wuchang Hospital has updated eight official microblogs, three of which are related to donated materials.
「分层分析虽然难度较高，但可以通过感染时间段来推测原因。
"Hierarchical analysis is more difficult, but it can be inferred from the time of infection.
如果在武汉封城、湖北省发布一级响应后的两周内（即 2 月 7 日前）发生感染，那可能是由于防护不到位造成的。
If an infection occurs within two weeks after Wuhan Fengcheng and Hubei provinces publish a first-level response (i.e. by February 7), it may be due to inadequate protection.
如果在 2 月 7 日之后，医务人员有新发感染，说明后续防控依然有漏洞。
If new infections occur among medical personnel after 7 February, there are still gaps in follow-up.
我们需要追查这个漏洞是什么。
We need to find out what this hole is.
」胡必杰表示，目前国家公布的医务人员感染数据还不够精细，需要进行分层分析，来探索上述两种原因导致感染的比例。
"The country's data on the number of infections among medical personnel are not very detailed, and a stratified analysis is needed to explore the rates of infection for both causes, Hu said.
蔡利萍尽力保护着「孩子们」，她所负责的病区曾一度医护人员零感染。
Cai Liping tried to protect "the children," and once there was no infection among medical staff in her sick area.
可在 2 月 7 日以后，安全被打破，「有一位 25 岁的护士感染，病情不乐观。
But after February 7, safety was breached. "A 25-year-old nurse was infected and was not very well.
」武汉市第三医院 ICU 医生董辉说。
Wuhan Third Hospital ICU Doctor Dong Fai said.
据媒体报道，2 月 13 日中午，刘智明还跟朋友说，艰难的 20 天度过了，坚信会一天天好起来。
At noon on February 13, Liu told his friends that he had had a tough 20 days and was confident that he would get better every day, according to media reports.
没想到，仅一天后，他的病情忽然加重，再无好转。
Unexpectedly, only a day later, his condition suddenly aggravated, no better.
他生于冬天，当春天即将来临的时候，他却永远留在了冬天。
He was born in winter, but when spring is near, he stays in winter forever.
（文中提及的王苡沐、魏华、李翰昭、胡俊为化名）（更多主笔好文，可点击阅读原文查看）作者：史晨瑾 郑宇钧题图来源：健康时报参考资料：中国疾病预防控制中心新型冠状病毒肺炎应急响应机制流行病学组. 新型冠状病毒肺炎流行病学特征分析[J]. 中华流行病学杂志, 2020, 41(2): 145-151—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
The Epidemiology Unit of the Chinese Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's New Coronavirus Pneumonia Emergency Response Mechanism Epidemiology Group. New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemiology Group. New Coronavirus Pneumonia Epidemiological Profile & # 91; J & # 93; China Epidemiology Journal 2020, 41 (2): 145-151; Often Helps & # 124; Comfort.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武昌医院院长刘智明的最后人生路。
The last life path of Liu Zhiming.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "武昌医院院长刘智明的最后人生路";。
var msg _ title = & quot; last mile & quot; by Liu Zhiming, director of Wuchang Hospital.
var msg_desc = "他生于冬天，他永远留在了冬天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; He was born in winter; he stayed with him forever.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
