方舱医院里，不只有广场舞。
It's not just the square in the cabin hospital.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
The following article comes from 守候微光。
The following article comes from waits for the light.
Author 中国青年报。
Author China Youth Daily.
守候微光。
Waiting for the light.
大家一起凝视的， 既是我们的生活，也是历史的脉络。
What we gaze upon together is not only our life, but also the thread of history.
中国青年报摄影部公众平台，生产真诚严肃的社会纪实摄影，品读新鲜有益的全球视觉资讯，帮助年轻的你看身旁、看远方。
China Youth Daily Photography Department public platform, production of sincere and serious social documentary photography, reading fresh and beneficial global visual information, to help young you look at the side, see the distance.
。
.
最早认识武汉是从池莉的小说开始的，烟火味、人情味十足。
The first time to know Wuhan is from Chi Li's novel, fireworks smell, full of human feelings.
去过武汉，也就理解了她怎么能写出嘈杂的市井，是三镇的布局、是长江的流淌、是九省通衢的历史。
If you have been to Wuhan, you will understand how she can write a noisy market-place. It is the layout of the three towns, the thoroughfare of the Yangtze River and the thoroughfare of nine provinces.
如今，方舱里人间烟火正浓。
Today the cabin is thick with fireworks.
Play一位患者眼中的洪山体育馆方舱医院。
A patient in Play saw the Hongshan Stadium Fang Causeway Hospital.
周莉/拍摄 孔斯琪/剪辑采访/中国青年报 鲁冲孔斯琪通讯员罗俊华写文/鲁冲武汉洪山体育馆方舱医院安置着800张床位，烟火气正弥漫在方舱的每个角落。
Zhou Li / Kongqi / Editing Interview / China Youth Daily Lu Chonghuangqi Correspondent Luo Junhua wrote / Lu Chong Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital in Wuhan installed 800 beds, the smoke of which permeates every corner of the cabin.
这里的新冠肺炎轻症患者从一开始恐惧担忧、寝食不安，到如今能够唱歌跳舞、泡脚唠嗑。
Here's the new crown pneumonia patients from the beginning of fear, restlessness, to now be able to sing, dance, foot nagging.
看台上挂的衣服、饭菜里冒的热气、病床间的家长里短、图书角里的翻书声……生活气息在方舱的细节中打开，生活的秩序在这重建。
The clothes hanging in the stands, the heat rising from the food, the paternalism in the bedspace, the volume turning in the corner of the book... the life breath opens in the details of the cabin, and the order of life here is re-established.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名高三学生患者的桌子里放满了书本，墙上贴着的便签是她手写的课程表。
On February 21, a senior student's desk in Block A of Hongshan Stadium Hospital in Wuhan City was filled with books and her handwritten curriculum was marked with notepads on the wall.
晚餐期间每人一份苹果和牛奶，邻床患者将自己那份也送给了她。
Each of them had an apple and milk for dinner, and the next-door patient gave her his share.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄活动区里，无论电视上播放什么歌曲，三位大爷都能跟着节奏律动起来，脚步跟不上节奏就快速扭动上半身。
No matter what songs are played on TV, the three grandfathers can follow the rhythm and move their upper bodies rapidly because their feet cannot keep pace with the rhythm.
旁边泡脚的大爷也忍不住了，泡脚盆里溅起了水花。
Beside the grandpa of bubble foot also cannot help but, bubble foot basin spatter splash of water.
大家一起享受着音乐，舞姿各异也不觉得别扭。
We all enjoy the music together, the different dance posture also does not feel awkward.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，挡板将病区分成了若干个小区域。
February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Square Hospital A area, the baffle will be divided into a number of small areas.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，青海省海东市互助县中医院高晓燕护士（前）正在带患者练习八段锦。
Lu Chong / She Feb 21, 2007, Nurse Gao Xiaoyan (former) of Hedong County Chinese Medicine Hospital, Haidong City, Qinghai Province, was taking the patient to Bazuanjin, Fangkang Hospital, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，“组长”张明（化名，右一）正在带领患者做健肺操。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital Area A, "Team Leader" Zhang Ming (alias, first right) is leading the patient to do lung exercises.
A区内会细分出各个区域，每区域选一位患者当组长，负责协助医护人员统计、拿饭、上报情况等等。
Area A will be subdivided into areas, each region selected as a patient leader, responsible for assisting health care workers statistics, meals, reporting, and so on.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者正在与家属视频通话，给家属看方舱医院里面的情况。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Hospital Area A, a patient and his family are video calling to show the family the situation inside the cabin hospital.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，刘梅（化名）在直播，她的观众基本上都是家人朋友。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital Area A, Liu Mei (alias) live, her audience is basically family and friends.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区外，“晾衣杆”上挂满了衣服。
Lu Chong / She Feb. 21, 2008, outside Area A, Hongshan Stadium, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan City, China, clothes hang on the "clothes hang pole."
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄方舱不是孤岛，人们在手机上消磨着时光。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net trainee reporter Lu Chong / Photographer's cabin is not an island, people spend time on mobile phones.
有患者将手机屏幕转向外，让屏幕里的家人看看自己的生活环境；有人在直播平台上给数量不多的粉丝直播自己的近况；还有人躺着刷起了短视频，屏幕那头的陌生人同样戴着口罩。
One patient turned the screen outward to show his or her family the environment in which he or she lived; others broadcast live live to a small number of fans on a live broadcast platform; and still others lay with short videos of strangers wearing masks at the other end of the screen.
一位今年马上高考的高三学生患者，在墙上贴着手写的课程表，床头桌里塞着满满的书本。
A senior high school student who is about to take the college entrance exam this year has a handwritten curriculum stuck to the wall and a bedside table full of books.
她的父母也被确诊了，此前因为离家近的洪山体育馆床位满员，住进了另一所方舱医院。
Her parents were also diagnosed after being admitted to another cabin hospital near their home in Hong Shan Gymnasium full of beds.
后来洪山方舱有患者出院空出了床位，这时候女孩也确诊了，便在社区的安排下独自入住。
Later, the Hong Shan square cabin patients out of the hospital bed, when the girl was also diagnosed, will be in the community under the arrangement of living alone.
在电话里听女儿说旁边的叔叔阿姨都很关照，女孩的父母感到放心。
In the phone listen to her daughter said that the aunt and uncle are very caring, the girl's parents feel relieved.
已经康复的张明和刘梅由于没能赶上出院车辆，只能次日再出院。
Zhang Ming and Liu Mei, who had already recovered, could not catch the discharge vehicle and had to be discharged the next day.
刚回到方舱医院里，病友们便关心起来：“你们不是今天出院吗，怎么又回来了？”还沉浸在失落中的刘梅立马开玩笑说，“舍不得你们啊，等明天和你们一起出院哈”。
Just returned to the cabin hospital, the sick people began to care: "You are not discharged today, how come back?" Liu Mei immediately immersed in the lost joking, "ah, waiting for you to leave hospital with you tomorrow Ha.
作为院内小分区的“组长”，每到晚上7点半，张明准时带着20多个病友到活动区做健肺操。
As the "group leader" of the small sub-district in the hospital, Zhang Ming brings more than 20 patients to the activity area for exercise every 7: 30 pm.
白天病友们还在商量着，张明出院了晚上活动谁来安排。
During the day, the patients are still discussing who will arrange the discharge from the hospital at night.
周莉的丈夫2月初被确诊为新冠肺炎，作为疑似患者的她也在不久后被收治进洪山体育馆方舱医院。
Zhou's husband was diagnosed with Newcastle pneumonia in early February, and she was admitted to Hong Shan Stadium's Fang Causeway Hospital shortly after being admitted as a suspect.
因为症状较轻，周莉担任起了“组长”的工作，负责为临近病区的14位患者分发一日三餐、领取生活物品。
As the symptoms were less severe, Zhou Li took on the role of "team leader," distributing meals and daily necessities to 14 patients in areas close to the disease.
有一天中午，方舱医院来了一批新的病人，原本刚好的饭菜不够，周莉将自己的饭菜让给同组年龄大的患者先吃，她自己下午一点半才吃上午餐。
One day at noon, a new group of patients arrived at the Fang Cao Hospital. There was not enough food. Zhou Li left her food for her older patients to eat first.
“虽然微不足道，但我想为大家早日‘出舱’尽一份力。
"It's not important, but I want to do something for you to get out of the cabin early.
”周莉说。
"said Zhou.
照顾病友之余，周莉还一直在微博上更新“方舱日记”，记录他们夫妻二人的“战疫”之路。
In addition to taking care of her sick friend, Zhou Li has been updating the "cabin diary" on Weibo to record the couple's path to the epidemic.
2月21日，在两次核酸检测结果都显示阴性后，周莉终于达到出舱标准。
On February 21, Zhou finally reached the exit standard after negative results from both nucleic acid tests.
她在微博上发出了与医生和病友们的合影：“待春暖花开，一一谢过。
On Weibo, she sent out pictures of doctors and patients: "Let the spring bloom, thanks one by one.
”出院后她将继续居家隔离，与14岁的孩子一起，耐心等待丈夫的痊愈。
She will remain in quarantine with her 14-year-old, waiting patiently for her husband to heal.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，医护人员在给病患测量血压。
Medical staff measure blood pressure in Block A, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan, Feb. 21, 2006.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，患者在医护人员处领取口罩。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She February 21, Hong Shan Sports Centre, Wuhan City, Area A Hospital, the patients at the medical staff to collect masks.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，摆放着社会公益组织捐赠的书籍。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital Area A, there are books donated by social welfare organizations.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者在看《三字经》。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital Area A, a patient is looking at the "Three Characters."
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者在看《安妮日记》。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital A area, a patient is reading "Diary of Anne."
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者在看电视。
Lu Chong / She Feb 21, a patient watches TV in Block A, Hongshan Stadium, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan, China.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，两名患者躺在床上看手机。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She Feb 21, 2007 Two patients lie on their beds looking at their mobile phones in Block A, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者在泡脚，他准备换上新的袜子。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Hospital Area A, a patient bubble feet, he is ready to change into new socks.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，一名患者在吃晚饭。
Lu Chong / She Feb 21, a patient eats dinner in Block A, Hongshan Stadium, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan, China.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，医护人员在收拾出院病人的床上用品。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She February 21, Hong Shan Sports Centre, Wuhan City, Area A Hospital, A, hospital staff are cleaning the bedding of discharged patients.
接下来，他们会换一整套全新的床上用品。
Next, they will have a whole new suite of bedding.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，保洁人员正在对垃圾进行消毒处理。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing net trainee reporter Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Area A Hospital, cleaning personnel are disinfecting the garbage.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，湖北省肿瘤医院医生严浩正在翻看病患群里的消息。
Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fangkang Hospital Area A, Hubei Province Oncology Hospital doctor Yan Hao is looking through the patient's information.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁冲/摄2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院A区内，心愿墙上贴满了患者的寄语。
Chinese Youth Daily: Lu Chong / She February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Fang Cao Hospital Area A, the Wishing Wall is covered with messages from patients.
活动区里，一面心愿墙上贴满了五颜六色的便签纸：“热干面加油，面窝加油，豆浆加油”“越是瘟疫越向前，医患一起扛肺炎”“艰难岁月，我们一起走过”……患者在这里短暂停留，情感却是加速连结。
In the activity area, a wish wall is covered with colorful notepaper: "hot and dry noodles refueling, buns refueling, soy milk refueling" "The more plague the more forward, the doctor and patient together carry pneumonia" "Tough times, we walk together.
随着疫情发展，武汉各地陆续投入建设方舱医院，用于收治新冠肺炎轻症患者。
With the development of the epidemic, Wuhan has been gradually put into the construction of the cabin hospital, used to treat patients with pneumonia.
截至2月21日，已有13所开舱，可提供救治的床位达到13348张，已有72支援助武汉的医疗队入驻，前期存在的患者收治难问题已得到有效解决。
As of February 21, there were 13 open spaces, with 13,348 beds available for treatment, and 72 medical teams had been sent to Wuhan to assist the medical teams.
未来，武汉预计再建19所方舱医院，同时确保每个方舱医院CT全覆盖。
In the future, Wuhan is expected to build 19 more cabin hospitals, while ensuring that every square cabin hospital CT coverage.
专门为方舱医院设计的“方舱CT”可以大大提高检测速度，平均两分多钟就能扫描一位患者，无接触的操作也可降低医护人员的感染风险。
A "square-cabin CT" specially designed for cabin hospitals can greatly improve detection speed, averaging more than two minutes to scan a patient, and non-contact procedures can reduce the risk of infection for health-care workers.
身在方舱，生活在继续；走出方舱，生活仍要继续。
In the cabin, life goes on; out of the cabin, life goes on.
（为保护患者隐私，部分照片进行了打码处理，文中部分患者名为化名）编辑 | 曲俊燕中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
(Some of the photos have been coded to protect the privacy of the patient. Some of the patients have been given pseudonyms.)
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院里，不只有广场舞。
It's not just the square in the cabin hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "方舱医院里，不只有广场舞";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the cabin hospital.
var msg_desc = "有人的地方就有生活，他们也是你我。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Where there are people, there's life; They're you and me.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
