他们依然滞留在武汉。
They remain in Wuhan.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2020年2月15日，因武汉封城，约有20人被滞留在武昌火车站地下停车场。
On February 15, 2020, about 20 people were detained in the underground parking lot at Wuchang railway station because of the city's closure.
中青报·中青网见习记者李强/摄本文约4040字预计阅读时间11分钟作者 |尹海月 刘 言王嘉兴 李 强编辑 | 从玉华封城前，出来旅游散心的江西人张文，觉得武汉是个很治愈的城市。
About 4040 words Anticipated Reading Time 11 Minutes By Li Qiang; Wang Jiaxing Li Qiang, editor and chief executive of Jiaxing Li Qiang; Zhang Wen, a tourist from Jiangxi before Yuhua Fengcheng, thinks Wuhan is a very cured city.
他去了黄鹤楼、汉正街，游人很多，“没有戴口罩的”“那个时候都没有听到什么风声，发生得太突然了。
He went to the Yellow Crane Tower and Hanzheng Street. There were a lot of visitors. There was no such thing as a mask.
”到武汉后，他在一天150元的旅馆待了24天，最后拖着行李箱，走了两个多小时到武昌火车站，“脚都走肿了。
After arriving in Wuhan, he stayed at a 150-yuan hotel for 24 days, then dragged his suitcase for more than two hours to the Wuhan railway station.
”当时，他的口袋里只剩下一张车票的钱，可火车站无票可卖。
"He had only one ticket left in his pocket, but there were no tickets to sell at the station.
2月12日，他住进了武昌火车站的地下车库里。
On February 12, he moved into the underground garage of Wuchang railway station.
两天后，张文成为方舱医院的一名志愿者。
Two days later, Zhang Wen became a volunteer at Fang Cao Hospital.
他说，做志愿者，能帮助别人一点儿是一点儿。
'Being a volunteer is a little bit of a help, 'he says.
在这里，他负责安保工作，有吃的住的——34岁的他第一次住进三星级酒店。
Here, he was in charge of security, food and lodging - the 34-year-old first time he was admitted to a three-star hotel.
他加入外地人滞留武汉的几个微信群，发现有200多人被困：有的是因为来武汉做手术，有的是陪孩子艺考，还有的只是封城当天转车，就再也出不去了……现在，他们只有一个共同的目标：等着武汉好起来，出城。
He joined several micro-groups of outsiders stranded in Wuhan, and found more than 200 people trapped: some came to Wuhan for surgery, some accompanied their children's art exam, others just closed the city on the day of the transfer, can not get out of... Now, they only have one common goal: to wait for Wuhan to get better and leave town.
11月23日凌晨2点的封城令很多人感到突然。
The 2 a. m. closure on Nov. 23 surprised many people.
当天晚上，张文才得知这一消息。
Only later that night did Zhang learn of the news.
他不看新闻，对疫情一无所知。
He doesn't read the news and knows nothing about the epidemic.
晚上出门时，他被旅馆老板娘叫住，说有疫情，封城了，这几天不要出去，出去必须要戴口罩，不然不要回来。
When he went out at night, he was stopped by the hostess, saying that there was an epidemic, closed the city, do not go out these days, must wear a mask, otherwise do not come back.
他以为很快就会解封，没想到一住就是近一个月。
He thought he would be unsealed soon, but he didn't expect to live for nearly a month.
刘艳芳也没想到会滞留这么久，以为“封一个星期不得了了”。
Anita Lau also did not expect to stay so long, think "a week sealed."
看到封城消息时，她正在病房里陪着丈夫，他们1月10日从河南开封到武汉来治病，她想着，“既然来了就在这好好治。
When she saw the news, she was in the hospital room with her husband, who had come to Wuhan from Kaifeng, Henan Province, on January 10 to cure her illness.
”刘艳芳后来后悔不已，她错过了出城的机会——1月21日，弟弟想接她回去，她没让，“别瞎紧张。
Anita Lau regretted that she had missed the chance to leave town on Jan. 21, when her younger brother tried to take her back.
”她对弟弟说，“武汉这边可热闹了”。
"Wuhan is busy," she said to her younger brother.
她从9楼的窗户向外望，医院对面的商场人来人往。
She looked out the window on the ninth floor and the mall across the hospital was full of people.
“开始新闻上说可防可控，给我的印象就是跟流感差不多”。
"It started out as preventable and gave me the impression that it was similar to the flu."
陈恋也没在意，直到封城前一天，她感觉有点不对劲，医院开始跟病人协商出院，“我们那一层基本上走了一半。
Chen didn't care until the day before the city was closed. She felt something was wrong and the hospital began to negotiate with the patient to leave the hospital.
”同这些早早进入武汉的外地人不同，李祖清是封城当天进入武汉的。
Unlike these early arrivals in Wuhan, Li Zuqing entered Wuhan on the same day.
1月22日，他从广东揭阳出发，23日10点多达武昌火车站，准备转车回陕西过年。
January 22, he set out from Jieyang, Guangdong, 23 at 10 o'clock up to Wuchang railway station, ready to transfer back to Shaanxi Province for the New Year.
但出站后，李祖清发现进站口已封，车不开了，随后被通知办理退票。
But after leaving the station, Li Zuqing found the entrance has been sealed, the car can not be opened, and was subsequently informed to handle the refund.
还有人在封城之后进入武汉。
Some entered Wuhan after the closure of the city.
他们是在高速路上被拦截的。
They were intercepted on the highway.
1月24日，朱言言从广西开车回安徽，途经武汉市高速路收费口时，警察告诉他们，前面的高速路封了，可以走国道或省道，朱言言便下了高速路，开到武汉市边界新洲区凤凰镇时，发现出不去了。
When Zhu Yue said he was driving back to Anhui from Guangxi on January 24, he told them that the expressway ahead was blocked and they could use either national or provincial roads. Zhu said he got off the expressway and drove to Phoenix Township in Xinzhou district of Wuhan city.
他给当地政府、公安局、派出所打电话均无果。
He tried in vain to call the local government, the police station or the police station.
一个警察说，再往前走是麻城，即使这里给你放行，前面也过不去。
said one of the officers. 'It's Massachusetts further, and even if you let it through here, it won't pass.
朱言言一家人只好入住当地的一家宾馆。
Zhu said the family had to stay at a local hotel.
2对这座城市的滞留者，等待才刚刚开始。
The waiting period for those remaining in the city has only just begun.
1月24日，张文出门买了两个口罩，再未出酒店大门。
January 24, Zhang Wen out to buy two masks, the hotel has not left the door.
起初，他还可以去便利店，后来酒店所在的小区也被封了，他只能叫外卖，又托酒店老板娘在网上买菜，并借来锅煮。
At first he could go to a convenience store and later the neighborhood was closed. He ordered takeaway and asked the landlady to shop online and borrow a pot to cook.
足不出户的张文靠看电视剧打发时间，“包青天看完了，新白娘子传奇又重新看了几遍。
Zhang Wenwen does not leave the house by watching TV play to kill time, "Bao Qingtian read the end of the legend of the new white woman re-read several times.
”张文每天托外卖小哥带烟，心烦的时候能抽两三包。
Zhang wen takes out his younger brother every day with cigarettes, and can smoke two or three packs when he is upset.
转车失败后，李祖清也住进了火车站附近的宾馆，他挑了最便宜的一间，60元一天，饿了就去外面饭店吃。
When the transfer failed, Li also went to a hotel near the railway station. He picked the cheapest one, 60 yuan a day.
刘艳芳只能吃医院里的盒饭，她最担心丈夫的病情。
Anita Lau can only eat boxed rice in the hospital, she is most worried about her husband's illness.
丈夫需要每日通过吸高压氧治疗脑损伤，但1月23日，医院的康复科就停了。
The husband is required to treat brain damage daily with hyperbaric oxygen, but the hospital's rehabilitation unit stopped on January 23.
当时，医院告知她，正月初五会恢复上班，但直到现在也没复工。
At the time, the hospital told her that she would resume work on the fifth day of the first month, but has not returned to work.
年前约好的手术延期了。
The surgery on the appointment was postponed years ago.
从2月5日起，丈夫越来越暴躁，拔针，吵着要回家。
From 5 February, the husband became increasingly irritable, pulling needles and clamoring to go home.
有人好心抱着劝阻他，还被打了一拳。
He was well-intentioned to dissuade him and received a blow.
有一次，她跟着丈夫去卫生间，丈夫突然不耐烦地推了她一把，冲入卫生间将自己反锁，直到几个护士过来帮忙才将门打开。
Once she went to the bathroom with her husband, who suddenly gave her an impatient push and rushed into the bathroom to lock himself until several nurses came to help her open the door.
刘艳芳担心，老公的病越来越严重，“错过最佳治疗期。
Anita Lau worried that her husband's illness was getting worse and worse.
”在武汉就医的外地人不是少数。
Few outsiders seek medical treatment in Wuhan.
王静的丈夫也在封城当天停掉了高压氧的治疗。
Wang Jing's husband also stopped treatment for hyperbaric oxygen on the day the city was closed.
1月13日，她陪丈夫到武汉看病，在医院住到现在。
On 13 January, she accompanied her husband to Wuhan to see a doctor, living in the hospital until now.
王静所在的7楼已被锁，病人们只能在7楼走动，王静几乎没有出过病房，看到楼下发热门诊处的救护车和运输车，她很害怕。
Wang Jing, whose seventh floor was locked and patients had to walk on the seventh floor, had barely been out of the ward and was frightened to see the ambulance and delivery car in the fever clinic downstairs.
她天天戴着口罩，睡觉也不敢摘。
She wears a mask every day and doesn't dare to sleep.
自封城以来，陈恋看着身边的医护人员的装备从一个口罩变成两层口罩，再加上帽子，帽子之后再卡上护目镜。
Since the self-styled city, Chen has watched his paramedics switch from a mask to a two-layer mask, with hats, hats and goggles stuck behind them.
4个月大的宝宝一直吃母乳，由于焦虑，陈恋的奶水变得少而透明，她只能让丈夫去网上买奶粉。
Her 4-month-old baby has been breast-fed, and because of anxiety, Chen's milk has become less transparent and she has to send her husband online to buy milk powder.
陈恋害怕听到每天晚上从楼底传来的救护车声。
Chen is afraid to hear ambulance calls coming from the bottom of the building every night.
1月28日，医院开始接收发热病人，陈恋立即出了院，很多酒店已不收新的房客，因无处可去，出院当晚，一家四口在车里过了一夜。
On January 28, the hospital began to receive febrile patients, Chen immediately left the hospital, many hotels have no new tenants, because there is nowhere to go, the night of discharge, the family of four spent the night in the car.
第二天，有网友看到陈恋发布的求助信息，给她提供空房住。
The next day, some netizens saw Chen Xiang release the help information, to provide her with vacant room accommodation.
一家人终于有了落脚之处。
The family finally had a place to settle down.
能把房子交给一个陌生人住，这让困顿的陈恋感到了久违的暖意。
To be able to give the house to a stranger, which makes the sleepy old love feel a long time ago warm.
因为身上只带了8000多元钱，张文的钱快花光了。
With only 8000 yuan on me, Zhang Wen is running out of money.
2月12日，他离开旅馆，去火车站，车站的售票员告诉他有票才能进站，但他根本买不到票。
On 12 February, he left the hotel and went to the railway station, where the conductor told him that tickets were available to enter, but he could not buy them.
他打市长热线求助，对方称“会跟上面反映一下”，并提供给他救助站的电话，但张文多次打都无人接听。
He called the mayor's hotline for help, saying he would "talk to it," and gave him a phone call from the help desk, but Zhang was repeatedly left unanswered.
张文又给110打电话，对方称不在自己管辖范围内。
Zhang Wen calls 110 again, the other side said is not in his jurisdiction.
眼看就要流浪，有人告诉他可以去火车站地下车库住，张文到那里发现，住在车库的人不少，“这里一堆，那里一堆”。
On the verge of vagrancy, he was told he could go to the underground garage of the railway station, where Zhang found a lot of people living in the garage, "Here's a pile, there's a pile."
还有的人有锅，可以做饭。
Others have pots to cook.
张文了解到，这些人多数都因为付不起房费来到这里，“有住二十几天的，十几天的，还有刚来的。
Zhang Wen learned that most of these people can not afford to pay here, "there are 20 days of living, 10 days, and new arrival.
”来得早的，有工作人员给他们发了被子。
Early came the staff, who gave them quilts.
当晚，他在车库坐了一晚上，冻得直哆嗦。
That night, he sat in the garage all night shivering with cold.
32月13日，张文花170元买了两床被子。
On the 13th, Zhang Wenhua bought two quilts for 170 yuan.
当天下午，城管部门的几名工作人员来到车库询问他们情况。
That afternoon, several staff members of the city administration came to the garage to ask about their condition.
“他问我从哪里来，为什么要被困在武汉，说你不用急，等下我给你安排。
"He asked me where I came from and why I was stranded in Wuhan, saying you needn't hurry.
”之后为他们安排了住宿，两人一间，“住的问题解决了，没钱可以打电话问家里借点，把难关熬过去”。
"Then they were given accommodation, one for each of them." The problem of housing was solved, and there was no money to call home and borrow some money to tide them over.
住了两天，有个朋友告诉张文，方舱医院招志愿者，他觉得闲着不如去帮点忙，就和十几个朋友一同去了医院。
After living for two days, a friend told Zhang Wen that the cabin hospital was looking for volunteers. He thought it would be better to do something about it.
到那儿一看，方舱安排的住宿条件不错，伙食也很好，“又是肉又是鱼，还有红萝卜、藕片，都是我爱吃的。
When I got there, the accommodations arranged in the cabin were very good, the food was good, and the meat and fish as well as the carrot and lotus root slices are all my favorite foods.
”不少人仍在武昌火车站地下车库滞留。
Many people are still stuck in the underground garage of Wuchang railway station.
“我们已经连续吃了10多天泡面了。
"We've been eating noodles for more than 10 days in a row.
”2月15日下午，一位在地库打地铺的外地人对记者说。
'On the afternoon of February 15, a stranger who was working in a basement bunk told reporters.
这一天，武汉下了一场大雪，气温从前一天的4至15摄氏度，骤降至零下2至4摄氏度。
On this day, Wuhan, a heavy snow, temperature from the previous day from 4 to 15 degrees Celsius, plummeted to minus 2 to 4 degrees Celsius.
记者在地下车库发现，此处不算寒冷，但空气流通不畅，明显有氨味。
Reporters found in the underground garage, here is not cold, but the air ventilation is not smooth, obviously has ammonia flavor.
53岁的黄冈人张大爷18天前经朋友介绍来到这里。
Uncle Zhang, a 53-year-old Huanggang, was introduced here 18 days ago by a friend.
他在武汉打工多年，本来买了1月23日下午回乡的车票，去了被告知列车停运，这才听说新冠肺炎这回事。
He worked in Wuhan for many years, originally bought the January 23 afternoon ticket back home, was told that the train stopped operation, then heard about the New Crown Pneumonia.
1月28日早上，他在群租房内刷牙时咳嗽干呕，被合租者怀疑“有那个病”，劝了出来。
On the morning of January 28, while brushing his teeth in a group house, he coughed and sickened, and the tenant, suspecting that he was "sick," persuaded him out.
张大爷告诉记者，最初火车站地库有超过50人，政府安排他们住到上面的旅馆，有20多个人已搬了。
Zhang told reporters that initially there were more than 50 people in the basement of the railway station. The government arranged for them to stay in the hotel above.
但他觉得不太方便， 住不惯，“我不愿意进去旅店。
But he found it inconvenient to live in. "I don't want to go into the hotel.
”张大爷说，在宾馆也是一日两桶泡面，还不怎么让出门，“有被子有褥子就行，这里安静、空旷。
"Zhang said that in the hotel is also two barrels of noodles a day, not so much let out," quilt has mattress, here quiet, open.
”他说，辖区城管每天都会派人来给他们量体温，1月31日时，民政部门送来一些被褥，还给每人发了一箱泡面。
The precinct sent people to take their temperature every day, he said. On January 31, the civil affairs department sent in some bedding and a box of noodles.
除夕夜，他和老伴、儿子通了个电话，因为只用老人机，他也没法视频。
On New Year's Eve, he talked to his wife and son on the phone, because he could not use the old man's computer.
62岁的汤师傅，因为老板临时让他多装2天货，没能在封城前离开。
Mr. Tang, 62, couldn't leave the city because his boss temporarily asked him to load two more days.
在这个地下车库，他靠兜里的400元钱撑了23天。
In the underground garage, he survived for 23 days with 400 yuan in his pocket.
39岁的湖南人王哥，因为发现自己租住的旅店涌入越来越多外地人，担心感染新冠肺炎，主动来到这里。
Brother Wang, a 39-year-old Hunan resident, came here on his own initiative, fearing a new crown pneumonia as he found himself in an influx of people from outside the country.
他早早在京东买了睡袋和零食，每天靠外卖度日。
He bought sleeping bags and snacks early in Jingdong and lived off takeaway every day.
但这里的人大多是50岁上下的中年人，不擅长使用智能手机。
But most of the people here are middle-aged people in their mid-50s and are not good at using smartphones.
地库有公厕，也可以用电，也有开水可以打。
There are public toilets in the basement, as well as electricity and boiling water.
在地库岗亭值班的管理员曾告诉媒体：“我在这值班，从封城那一天起，他们在这，我就在这。
The watchman on duty at the basement booth told the press: "I'm on duty here. From the day the city was closed, they were here, I was here.
”“这些设备也需要看护。
"" These things need nursing too.
眼下特殊时期，没办法，有困难多克服，大家互相体谅吧。
At this particular time, there is no other way to overcome difficulties, let us understand each other.
”4陪丈夫看病滞留武汉的刘艳芳是一名初三班主任，学校通知她尽快回去。
"4 accompany her husband to stay in Wuhan Liu Anfang is a junior class director, the school told her to go back as soon as possible.
她也着急回去上课，惦记毕业生。
She was also anxious to go back to school, thinking of the graduates.
刘洋在英国读博，已在武汉的男朋友家滞留一个月。
Liu Yang has been staying at his boyfriend's home in Wuhan for a month while reading a blog in Britain.
学校通知她，如果不能在3月1日及时回学校进行学籍注册，英国移民局将注销签证，这意味着她将面临失学。
The school informed her that if she did not return to school in time for registration on 1 March, the British Immigration Office would cancel her visa, which meant that she would be out of school.
王静在一家房地产企业上班，公司将于2月24日复工，通知只能等她半个月，“万一工作丢了，房贷车贷一个都还不上。
Wang Jing, who works for a real estate company that will resume work on Feb. 24, has been told to wait only half a month.
”王静打电话向社区询问，社区让她问街道，街道又让她问指挥中心，区指挥中心说不知道，她又开始打市长热线。
Wang Jing called the community, which asked her to ask about the street, and then asked her to ask the command centre, which said she didn't know, and she started calling the mayor's hotline again.
市长热线说，现在没有政策，让她去网上看有没有通知。
The mayor's hotline said there was no policy for her to go online to see if there were any notices.
可网上没有任何相关内容。
But there is no relevant content on the Internet.
几乎所有滞留者都经历了这样的求助过程。
Almost all those who remain have gone through this process.
刘艳芳从学校得知，只要有健康证明，就可以回去上班，她去社区开健康证明，但社区工作人员称未接到相关政策，让她去问区指挥部，但区指挥部一名主任告诉她，办不了，只能等着。
Anita Lau learned from school that she could go back to work as long as she had a medical certificate, and that she went to the community to issue a health certificate, but community workers said she had not received the policy of asking her to go to the district headquarters, but one of the district headquarters directors told her that she could not do so and had to wait.
前几日，刘艳芳听人说有私人救护车能出城，她打电话咨询，对方称不用别的手续，有体检证明就能走，每公里24元。
A few days ago, Anita Lau heard that there is a private ambulance out of the city, she called to consult, the other side said no other procedures, a medical certificate can go, 24 yuan per kilometer.
刘艳芳算了算，从武汉到开封，要花1.4万多元。
Anita Liu calculated, from Wuhan to Kaifeng, spending more than 14,000.
她想走，但对方说无法送到开封市内。
She wanted to leave, but was told she couldn't get it to Kaifeng.
老公是病人，她担心一旦在高速上被困住，更难办。
Her husband was a patient, and she worried that it would be harder to get stuck on the highway.
2月13日，湖北省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通告称，湖北省内各类企业不早于2月20日24时前复工。
On February 13, the Hubei Provincial Command for the Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia issued a notice saying that enterprises of all types in Hubei Province should resume work before 2400 hours on February 20.
刘艳芳心想，20日或许会解封，她又开始等待。
Anita Lau thought that the 20th might be unsealed, she began to wait.
张文也在等待。
Zhang Wen is waiting, too.
直到现在，家人也不知道他在武汉。
Until now, his family did not know that he was in Wuhan.
住地下车库时，他也没跟家里要钱。
He didn't ask his family for money when he lived in an underground garage.
在方舱医院做志愿者，他每天要在门外站12个小时，“工作量不大，就是有点冷。
As a volunteer at the Fang Cavern Hospital, he would stand outside the door for 12 hours every day.
”15天志愿者工作满后，他要再隔离14天。
After 15 days of volunteer work, he was kept in isolation for another 14 days.
在有着200多人的滞留者群里，人们每天都在讨论着，什么时候能重新上班、上学，能回家见到亲人。
In a group of more than 200 people, people talk every day about when they can get back to work, go to school, and go home to see their loved ones.
2月17日凌晨，一个女人在群里说，母亲昨日下午5点多钟去世，她没能见妈妈最后一面。
In the early morning hours of February 17, a woman told the group that she had not been able to see her mother for the last time after her mother died at more than 5 pm yesterday.
中年女人称，自己在江苏的一个工地上开塔吊车，大年初三开车回云南看望病重母亲，途经武汉，不小心下了武汉高速路，就再也出不去了。
The middle-aged woman said she opened a tower crane on a construction site in Jiangsu Province and drove back to Yunnan on the third day of the year to see her sick mother.
“感觉很对不起我的妈妈，就因为我走错了路，在这里出不去，我现在很讨厌我自己。
"I feel sorry for my mother, just because I went the wrong way, can not get out of here, I now hate myself.
”有人在群里安慰她。
"Some one comforted her in the crowd.
她向有关部门求助，有工作人员劝慰她，暂时无法出城，会帮助她解决食宿问题。
She asked for help from the relevant authorities. She was advised not to leave the city for the time being and would be helped with accommodation.
群里很热闹，消息迅速被淹没。
The crowd was very busy and the news was quickly drowned.
人们又开始讨论，明天吃什么，去哪里买菜。
People began to talk again about what to eat and where to buy food tomorrow.
大家互相鼓励，日子要好好过。
We should encourage each other and live a good life.
（文中刘艳芳、王静、刘洋为化名）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
(Anita Liu, Wang Jing and Liu Yang are aliases) The China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor / editor.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们依然滞留在武汉。
They remain in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们依然滞留在武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; they remain at & quot; & quot; at Wuhan & quot;;
var msg_desc = "等着武汉好起来";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
