苦中作乐的武汉人，此生不忘的这些天。
Wuhan people who are happy in life, these days do not forget.
何可人。
Who is it?
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月16日中午，武汉市江岸区的美食街吉庆街上，一处雕像被人挂上了口罩，一位市民坐在旁边吃午餐。
At noon on Feb. 16, a statue was hung with a mask and a citizen sat down to have lunch on Jiqing Street, Jieqing Street, Jiangan District, Wuhan.
中青报·中青网见习记者 鲁 冲/摄作者何可人冰点周刊×腾讯新闻谷雨武汉封城第十六天后，武汉姑娘小曲在豆瓣广播里贴了一张黑色的海报，上面是海明威的话：所有人其实是一个整体，别人的不幸就是你的不幸。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Wuhan Hung Hom On the 16th day after Wuhan Fengcheng, Wuhan Girl put up a black poster on the Douban radio, saying: All people are one whole, others' misfortune is yours.
刚刚封城的时候，小曲一度自行“断网”：不上微博，不刷短视频，不去豆瓣“自由吃瓜”小组，不参加各种群聊……只在家里看美剧，练瑜伽，跟爸妈学做菜。
Just when the closure of the city, Xiaoqu once "cut off": do not Weibo, brush short video, do not go to peas "free gourd" groups, do not participate in a variety of group chats... only at home to watch American drama, yoga, parents learn to cook.
决定源自小曲在网上看到的一份“恐慌下心理救助手册”。
The decision comes from a "psychological aid manual in case of panic," which ditto read online.
手册上建议少去浏览负面信息。
The manual recommends skimming down on negative information.
除此之外，生活中该做什么就做什么。
Besides, you can do whatever you want in your life.
小曲当时接受了这份“心理干预”。
Xiaoqu then accepted the "psychological intervention."
和众多武汉市民一样，她在疫情突变的短短数日里，经历了不以为意、紧张、不安、悲愤等心理起伏。
Like many Wuhan city residents, she experienced the sudden outbreak of a few days, such as disapproval, tension, anxiety, grief and other psychological ups and downs.
她带着这些情绪泡在豆瓣小组里，有时回击别人针对武汉人的“地图炮”，有时安抚外地网友过度紧张的情绪，有时发帖给家乡打气加油。
She took these feelings to the Douban team, sometimes return others aimed at Wuhan "map gun", sometimes to calm the feelings of over-stressed foreign friends, sometimes posted to home to cheer up.
1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布“封城”。
In the early morning of January 23, Wuhan announced the "closure".
小曲“特别无助”，觉得“被人抛弃了”，而她常去的“自由吃瓜”小组，“整个瓜组都在欢呼”。
Xiaoqu "special helplessness", feel "abandoned," and she often go to the "free gourd" group, "the whole team cheers.
各地开始组织物资驰援武汉。
Everywhere began to organize supplies to help Wuhan.
除夕这天，小曲看到好几个帖子都对武汉人流露出不友好，糟糕的情绪至此累积到顶点。
On New Year's Eve, Xiao Qu saw several posts to Wuhan people are not friendly, bad mood at this point accumulated to the peak.
她决定断网“自救”，回避网上的歧视，也回避各种晚会上的欢呼。
She decided to cut off "self-help," avoid online discrimination, and avoid cheers at parties.
半个月后，小曲刷完了好几部美剧，学会了摊煎饼，平板支撑练到能坚持一分钟……她不再需要靠“断网”来隔绝最初的紧张焦虑甚至愤怒，能够更冷静地直视眼前的世界。
Half a month later, Xiaoqu brushed several American dramas, learned to spread pancakes, and practiced flat-panel support for a minute... She no longer had to "cut off" her initial nervousness or anger and was able to look more calmly into the world before her.
这也是不少留守武汉的人共同的经历。
This is also the common experience of many people left behind in Wuhan.
500万人离开，900万人原地不动，他们既要捍卫自己的平安，也要紧紧地拽着病毒不滑向更广大的人群。
Five million people left and nine million stayed where they were, defending their own safety as well as dragging the virus so tightly that it did not slip into the wider population.
乐观、沮丧、焦虑、不安、疑惑、希望、失望，种种情绪随着疫情的变化，在人心里交替消长。
Optimism, depression, anxiety, uneasiness, doubt, hope, despair, emotions that follow the epidemic, alternating in the human heart.
留下的人眼前，是城市的伤痛和自救。
Those who stay behind see the pain and self-help of the city.
但如武汉那句著名的市民哲学“冷也好，热也好，活着就好”，只要人还平安，就要努力生活下去。
But such as Wuhan's famous civic philosophy "cold or hot or alive," as long as people are still safe, we have to work hard to live.
1月31日，武汉同济医院发热门诊空间有限，许多患者在门外的花园里打点滴。
On January 31, Wuhan Tongji Hospital has limited hot clinic space, many patients outside the garden dripping.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄作 乐一位40多岁的大汉，穿着灰色睡衣睡裤，站在高层的楼顶钓鱼。
A man in his 40s was standing on the roof of a high-rise building fishing, wearing grey pajamas.
鱼从直径不到1米的鱼缸里钓出，大汉喊着“快快快快”，拿着网兜的小男孩小跑过去，将鱼捞住。
Fish from the diameter of less than 1 meters out of the tank, the big man shouted "Hurry up," the little boy with the net ran to catch the fish.
武汉人阿娇看到这段视频时哈哈大笑。
Wuhan people Ah Jiao saw this video when laughing.
那会儿封城才刚开始。
It was just the beginning of the siege.
面对这前所未有的局面，留守者摁下不安，苦中作乐。
Facing this unprecedented situation, the left-behind people press uneasiness, bitter joy.
钓鱼大汉是阿娇的同事，用武汉话形容，是一位“咵天高手”。
Fishes big man is A Jiao's colleague, uses Wuhan language to describe, is a "Zhangtian master".
封城后，大哥宅在家里，开始拍趣味小视频。
After the closure of the city, Big Brother Mansion at home, began to shoot interesting video.
微博上流传“武汉人宅在家里的100种方式”之前，她的这位同事就已拍下了钓鱼视频。
"Before the 100 ways Wuhan people live in their homes" was circulated on Weibo, her colleague had filmed a fishing video.
鱼是之前储备的年货，没想到封城后有了娱乐的用途。
Fish is the previous reserve of the New Year, did not expect to have entertainment after the closure of the city.
鱼钓了5次才上钩，视频也因此拍了5次。
The fish was caught five times before being hooked and the video was filmed five times.
收工后，鱼被煮进了火锅。
After the work was over, the fish was boiled in a hot pot.
家距华南海鲜市场2.6公里的阿娇，手机里存了一份武汉市民某一时间节点内的“街道风险排序表”，上面由高至低排列了全市一百几十个街道的疫情风险指数。
Ajiao, 2.6 kilometers from the South China seafood market, has a "street risk ranking table" at a point in time in Wuhan city that lists the epidemic's risk indexes for dozens of streets from high to low.
第一名是唐家墩——离华南海鲜市场700余米，风险高达96.52，最低的是36.38的鲁湖。
The first place is TangjiaTun - away from the South China seafood market more than 700 meters, the risk as high as 96.52, the lowest is 36.38 Luhu.
阿娇所在的塔子湖街道排名11，风险指数93.3。
Gillian is located in the Tower Lake Street ranking 11, the risk index 93.3.
外地朋友在微信群里关心阿娇的状况，她常常在大家一段灰心或愤慨的对话中，插入几句“过年好”“财神到”的喜庆口号。
Friends in the field in the micro-letter group concerned about the situation, she often in a section of frustrated or indignant dialogue, insert a few "good New Year," "God of Wealth" happy slogan.
或是一片唉声叹气后，给大家打一针“兴奋剂”：“没事，一定没事，武汉一定能挺过去的。
Or a sigh, give us a shot of "doping": "nothing, certainly nothing, Wuhan will be able to survive.
”整座城市草木皆兵，阿娇和家人起初庆幸自己是健康的，直到他们的亲戚中出现了确诊病例，全家人吓得睡不着觉。
Throughout the city, Gillian and her family initially congratulated themselves on being healthy, until confirmed cases appeared among their relatives, leaving the family too scared to sleep.
在此之前，一家人的生活有条不紊地进行。
Until then, the family's life had been orderly.
父母早上醒来，先用84消毒液兑水拖地。
Parents wake up in the morning and mop the floor with disinfectant 84.
无法出门“过早”，早餐也要尽量丰富：面条配腊肉，蒸馒头加黑芝麻糊，水蒸蛋加炸面饼。
Cannot go out "too early," breakfast should also be as rich as possible: noodles with bacon, steamed steamed bread with black sesame paste, steamed eggs with fried bread.
藕汤必不能少。
lotus root soup is indispensable.
头天晚上把粉藕和排骨丢进锅里，炖上一夜，第二天早上盛上一碗。
The night before the flour lotus root and ribs into the pot, stew overnight, the next morning filled a bowl.
之前储备的年货越吃越少，莲藕汤里的上排慢慢变成龙骨。
The less food you have in stock, the more slowly the top row of lotus root soup becomes keel.
封城第七天的时候，阿娇的妈妈嫌龙骨没肉，又扔了块猪蹄进去。
Sealed the seventh day of the city, Gillian's mother disrelish keel no meat, and threw a pig hoof into.
阿娇笑：“龙骨没肉，猪手来凑，还是第一次吃。
Gillian laughed: "keel no meat, pig hand to join, or the first time to eat.
”阿娇想念在武汉人中大名鼎鼎的“王师傅豆皮”，馋得咽口水。
Ah Jiao missed the famous "Wang Shifu Peel" among the Wuhan people and his mouth watered.
她去网上找了制作豆皮的教程，想在家一试。
She went online for a pea peel tutorial and wanted to try it out at home.
她说，这就是武汉人，“很有娱乐精神”，“总能兵来将挡，水来土掩。
She said that this is Wuhan people, "very entertaining spirit", "always come and get in the way, water cover.
”封城第一周，这样的心态见于许多武汉市民的生活里。
In the first week of the city, this mentality was seen in the lives of many Wuhan residents.
在豆瓣上的“武汉豆瓣”小组里，到处都是这样的生活痕迹。
In the "Wuhan Douban" team on the Douban, there are many such traces of life everywhere.
有人在读《霍乱时期的爱情》，有人开始看心理学书籍，有人号召大家向孤岛时期的文学家学习，执笔记录当下，有人购置了望远镜表示要仰望星空，有人下单了显微镜，准备观察唾液细胞和草履虫。
Some people are reading Love in the Cholera, others are reading psychology books, and some are calling on the writers of the Isle of Man to learn from the writers of the Isle. Now, someone has purchased telescopes to look up at the stars.
封城前，小曲就做好了宅在家里的准备。
Before the closure of the city, Xiaoqu on the home of the preparation.
她和表弟表妹们约好，今年不串门，不走亲戚，大家一起在网上打麻将。
She and her cousin cousins, do not visit the door this year, do not go relatives, we play Mahjong online.
试了好多款游戏，系统都不允许亲友自建房间，只能随机加入。
Try a number of games, the system does not allow relatives and friends to build rooms, can only join at random.
表弟表妹们改投另一款游戏的阵营。
My cousins switched to another game camp.
小曲下了4个单机游戏，每个都充了6元钱。
Xiaoqu under the 4 single game, each filled 6 yuan.
小曲的爸爸在网上斗地主，成绩毫无进展。
Xiao Qu's father was fighting the landlord online and his grades were flat.
她就拉着爸爸一起运动，时不时地做10个俯卧撑。
She would pull her father together and do ten push-ups from time to time.
放下心理包袱后，小曲“无所畏惧”地“刷剧”，看了不少剧集，包括《血疫》这类内容涉及传染病的惊悚剧。
After putting down the psychological burden, Xiao Qu "fearless" "brush play," saw a lot of drama, including "plague" such as the horror of infectious diseases.
看别处的剧情，小曲想的是眼前的武汉。
Looking at the story elsewhere, Xiaoqu thought of the immediate Wuhan.
她说武汉人“表面比较刚”，实际“内心柔软得不得了”。
Wuhan, she said, was "outwardly tough" and "incredibly soft inside."
她不知道家乡未来如何，武汉人会不会有心理阴影，也不知道有多少人会在绝望和希望中纠结。
She does not know the future of her hometown, Wuhan people will not have psychological shadow, do not know how many people in despair and hope entanglement.
最后带给她安慰的一部剧集，讲的是8个来自不同城市的人齐心协力杀出一条生路的剧情，这让她觉得，“在武汉也不会孤单……总有人会安慰、治愈你”。
In the end, she was comforted by a series about eight people from different cities working together to create a life story, which made her feel like "not alone in Wuhan... someone will comfort and heal you."
2月2日，武汉同济医院发热门诊门外，身着防护服的患者家属梁倩。
February 2, Wuhan Tongji Hospital outside the heating clinic, wearing protective clothing family members Liang Qian.
她母亲已确诊感染新型冠状病毒，在这里输液和吸氧，等待收治的床位。
Her mother has been diagnosed with a new coronavirus, where infusion and oxygen suction await admission to the hospital bed.
中青报·中青网记者李峥苨/摄除了武汉本地人，900万人里也有留守的外乡人。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongying.com, a journalist, Li Zheng Zheng / photographing In addition to the local people in Wuhan, there are some 9,000,000 foreigners left behind.
皮克老家在山东，在武汉求学、恋爱、置业，已度过12年。
Peak hometown in Shandong, in Wuhan to study, love, home, has spent 12 years.
他原计划年后开车回老家，因疫情作罢。
He had planned to drive back to his hometown in a few years because of the outbreak.
封城时，皮克的全部储备有：一包腊肠，两包水饺，一袋速食拉面，一捆湿面条，两袋米，30个咸鸭蛋，几棵大葱，一瓶老干妈辣酱，一箱纯牛奶。
At the time of the siege, Pick had a bag of sausages, two packs of dumplings, a bag of instant ramen, a bundle of wet noodles, two bags of rice, 30 duck's eggs, some scallions, a bottle of dried mother's chilli sauce, and a crate of pure milk.
他算了算，省着点吃，米饭配咸鸭蛋也能撑半个多月。
He calculated that he would save some food and that rice and duck eggs would last more than half a month.
他仿照网上的段子，调侃自己的留守生活：“大葱炒鸡蛋，放了856粒盐，味道不咸不淡。
He mocked his stay-at-home life by mimicking the passage on the Internet: "Onion scrambled eggs, 856 pieces of salt, taste good.
”从网上找来“第八套广播体操”，他在家一边喊“一二三四”，一边伸胳膊伸腿。
"Eight sets of radio gymnastics" was found online, and he stretched out his arms as he shouted "1234" at home.
更重要的，是他有100多个N95口罩和半瓶消毒液。
More importantly, he has more than 100 N95 masks and half a bottle of disinfectant.
一切安排好，皮克封闭好门窗，想着“躲进小楼成一统，管他冬夏与春秋”。
Everything was arranged, and Pike closed the door and windows, thinking, "Take refuge in the little building, in winter and summer and spring and autumn."
1月27日晚上8点，武汉的楼宇间响起了起此彼伏的“武汉加油”。
January 27 at 8 p.m., Wuhan between the buildings sounded between the wave of "Wuhan refueling."
声音传到千家万户，让隔绝数日的人自发地投入宣泄，一瞬间悲喜相通。
Sound spread to thousands of families, so that the isolation of a few days people spontaneously into catharsis, a moment of happiness.
小曲听见了。
Little song heard.
她原本觉得武汉已经是一座“空城”，直到听见这些并不整齐的声音，才感觉“周围还有那么多人”。
Wuhan, she thought, was an "empty city" until she heard the voices were not orderly, only to feel "there are so many people around."
阿娇也听到了，趴在29楼窗口不管不顾地跟着喊。
Gillian also heard, flat on the 29th floor window regardless of the shouting.
皮克嗓门不够，他把一台音箱搬到窗台，把音量调成最大，播放《义勇军进行曲》。
Pike didn't have a loud enough voice. He moved a speaker to the window sill, turned the volume up to maximum, and played the Volunteer March.
各种各样的视频被传到互联网上。
Various videos were uploaded to the Internet.
有人用武汉当地朋克乐队SMZB的歌词形容这一夜：“这里不会永远象一个监狱/打破黑暗就不会再有哭泣/一颗种子已经埋在心里/这是一个朋克城市，武汉。
Some people use the words of the local Wuhan punk band SMZB to describe the night: "It will not always be like a prison / break the darkness there will be no more crying / a seed is buried in my heart / this is a punk city, Wuhan.
”互 助封城第二天，因为公共交通停摆，武汉医务人员上下班出现困难。
The following day, Wuhan medical staff had trouble commuting because public transport was suspended.
本地车主迅速集结成队伍，志愿接送医护人员上下班。
Local car owners quickly formed a group to volunteer medical staff to and from work.
Vlog博主“蜘蛛猴面包”带着镜头加入了队伍，既接送医护人员，也协助运送救援物资。
The Vlog blogger, Spider Monkey Bread, joined the group with footage to transport medical staff and aid in the delivery of relief supplies.
志愿车队人数超过5000人，有武汉人、外地人，也有在武汉生活了7年的外国人。
There are more than 5,000 volunteers, including Wuhan people, outsiders and foreigners who have lived in Wuhan for seven years.
陌生的人们一起抵抗疫情，积极互助。
Unfamiliar people together to resist the epidemic, active mutual assistance.
一位护士看到“蜘蛛猴面包”只戴一个外科口罩，在车里留下一个N95。
A nurse saw Spider Monkey Bread wearing only a surgical mask and leaving an N95 in the car.
另一位护士说着令她感动的细节：同事缺口罩，就有邻居送去了仅有的N95；同事缺护目镜，家门前就被人默默地挂上一副泳镜。
Another nurse gave her moving details: a neighbor sent her only N95 through a colleague's notch, while a colleague was left without goggles and a pair of goggles hung silently in front of the door.
更多个体和民间组织的互助跑了起来。
More individuals and civil society organizations are running for mutual help.
有酒店业主组织300多家武汉本地的酒店，每日提供1.5万间房，就近给医护人员提供免费住宿。
There are more than 300 local hotel owners in Wuhan, providing 15,000 rooms daily, to provide free accommodation to the nearest medical staff.
火神山、雷神山医院开工后，民间工程车志愿者们也驶进建设工地。
After the start of the Fire Goddess Mountain and Lei Shenshan Hospital, volunteers of folk engineering vehicles also drove into the construction site.
汉口北批发城的一些业主联名表示， 愿意把仍未投入使用的商铺捐出去，作为隔离点，“为武汉解难”。
Hankou North Wholesale City a number of owners jointly expressed their willingness to still not use the shop donated, as an isolation point, "for Wuhan relief."
在方舱医院，有护士发现，一位患者默默地收拾垃圾，希望减少保洁人员的感染风险。
At the cabin hospital, a nurse found a patient quietly picking up the trash in hopes of reducing the risk of infection for cleaners.
城封了，留下的人成了命运共同体。
The city was sealed, and those who remained became the destiny community.
小曲闺蜜的婆婆有了疑似症状，在医院从除夕排队到初一。
Xiao Qu's mother-in-law had suspected symptoms, queuing from New Year's Eve to the first day of junior high school.
现实再无可避，小曲着急得跟着哭。
Reality can not avoid, Xiaoqu anxious to follow the cry.
一贯乐观的阿娇刷到各种纷乱的信息忍不住哭出来，感觉耳边满是 “嗡嗡声”。
Always optimistic Ah Jiao brush all kinds of messy information can not help but cry out, feel the ear full of "buzzing."
她去好多平台找“武汉加油”的捐款通道，“只要看到了就捐一点”，每天都捐。
She went to a lot of platforms to find "Wuhan refueling" donation channel, "as long as you see a little donation," donated every day.
和被疫情忽然砸晕的武汉市民不同，皮克提前就被预警了危险。
Unlike Wuhan, which was suddenly stunned by the outbreak, Pike was warned of danger ahead of schedule.
他家距离武汉协和医院、华南海鲜市场、汉口火车站都在2公里左右。
His home away from Wuhan Concorde Hospital, South China Seafood Market, Hankou Railway Station are about 2 kilometers.
他的女友在本地一家医学院读博士。
His girlfriend is a doctor at a local medical school.
1月18日，在老师措辞严厉的预警后，女友花了200元在网上买下100个N95口罩。
On Jan. 18, her girlfriend bought 100 N95 masks online for 200 yuan after her teacher gave her a stern warning.
那时公众当中还没有病毒“潜伏期”概念，没有症状的人们正常访亲会友。
There was no "incubation period" for the virus among the public, and asymptomatic people regularly visited their relatives.
1月20日，国家卫生健康委高级别专家组对媒体提醒，病毒已有“人传人”案例。
On January 20, the high-level group of experts of the National Health Council reminded the media that the virus has "human-to-human" cases.
1月21日，皮克女友的闺蜜上门拜访，3个人在家吃了顿火锅。
On January 21, Pick's girlfriend's girlfriend called on her door and three people ate a hot pot at home.
次日，他们接到电话：那位闺蜜一家五口三代人，除了孩子，全都出现了疑似感染症状。
The next day, they got a phone call saying that all but the children of the three generations of the girl's family were suffering from suspected infection.
危险骤然逼近眼前。
The danger loomed large.
皮克找到3天前买口罩的网店，再下单100个口罩，此时价格已经从200元涨了800元。
Pike found the shop that bought the mask three days ago and ordered another 100 masks, at a time when prices had risen 800 yuan from 200 yuan.
当晚，100个口罩的价格就涨到了7000元。
That night, the price of 100 masks rose to 7,000 yuan.
大量的信息在各种平台传播。
A great deal of information is disseminated on various platforms.
皮克家所在小区业主群里不到500人，除夕当夜发了3万多条语音。
The Peacock family, with fewer than 500 owners, delivered more than 30,000 voices on New Year's Eve.
皮克意识到，自己可能是个密切接触者。
Pike realized he might be in close contact.
他找到小区业主群的群主做了报备，对方说“没事没事”。
He found the owner of the small group of owners made a report, the other side said "nothing is okay."
小区群里有资源的“老板”，开始调动关系往城内运送物资。
"Bosses" with resources in the community began to mobilize relationships to move supplies into the city.
皮克看着大家激烈的反应，开始想“我能帮点什么”。
Pike looked at the intense reaction and began to think, "What can I do for you?"
200个N95口罩，被1月22日回老家的女友带走50个，再加上单位发的、家里存的一点医用外科口罩，总数不到200个。
Two hundred N95 face masks were taken by their girlfriend back home on January 22, bringing the total to less than 200, along with a handful of medical surgical masks that were handed out at home.
皮克在群里说：“我帮不了大的，但是我可以帮小的。
"I can't help big," Pike said in the group. "But I can help.
小区里谁没有口罩，或者不足，加我微信。
Community who do not have a mask, or lack of, add my micro-letter.
”近10个好友申请出现在他的微信里。
Nearly 10 close friends applied to appear in his letter.
深夜一点多，皮克趴在客厅桌子上规划口罩派发方案。
At one o'clock in the night, Pique planned the mask distribution programme on the living room table.
他给每人配4个口罩指标，N95算一个，医用外科口罩二抵一。
He gave each person four mask indicators, N95 count one, medical surgical mask two to one.
大部分求助者都是两口、三口之家，每家可分8个或者12个口罩。
Most of the patients are two-person, three-person families, each can be divided into 8 or 12 masks.
只有一对夫妻除外，那位丈夫告诉皮克，妻子在120急救中心工作，非但缺N95口罩，每天回家还要把隔离服挂在阳台上吹，舍不得扔掉。
With the exception of one couple, the husband told Pike that his wife worked at the 120 emergency center. Instead of a N95 mask, he would return home each day to blow her quarantine suit on the balcony and not throw it away.
皮克给这对夫妻留了20个N95和10个医用外科口罩。
Pique left the couple 20 N95 and 10 medical surgical masks.
他在群里承诺，初一中午12点前，一定将口罩送到每家门前。
He promised in the group that by 12 noon on the first day of junior high school, he would deliver the mask to every door.
按照皮克山东老家的习俗，初一早上要吃素饺子，还需要盛三个饺子，和鱼、肉一起供奉在灶台上，磕了头后再吃。
According to the custom of Peak Shandong Province, it is necessary to eat vegetarian dumplings in the morning, and three dumplings, fish and meat to be served together on the hearth, knock their heads before eating.
皮克没条件讲究荤素，在母亲的叮嘱下把饺子盛在桌上，磕了三个头，然后开始包口罩。
Pike is not in a position to pay attention to meat, on her mother's orders to put dumplings on the table, knock three heads, and then began to wrap masks.
每一户的口罩装入食品密封袋里，捆好，扎紧，上面贴着提前写好的联系人微信名、楼栋号、家里人口数和口罩数。
Each mask is strapped in a food-sealed bag, tied tightly and labeled with pre-written contact details, building numbers, family size and number of masks.
带着口罩，皮克出了门。
Wearing a mask, Pike went out the door.
他把袖口领子全部绑紧，戴上手套、口罩，头上罩一顶酒店里的一次性浴帽，戴上女友的泳镜。
He tied the cuffs tightly around his neck, put on gloves, a mask, a disposable hotel bathing cap, and wore his girlfriend's swimming glasses.
皮克给自己这副怪模样拍了照，却没把照片发给任何人——他不敢让亲友知道自己这个节骨眼还往外跑。
Pike took pictures of himself, but did not send them to anyone - he did not dare to let his friends and relatives know that he was still running away.
雾气凝结在泳镜里，皮克不太看得清路，好在小区楼栋他都熟悉，挨个摸到各家的门前，用胶带把每捆口罩贴在门上。
The mist condensed in the goggles, Pike can not see the road, but fortunately he is familiar with the building, one by one touched the door, taped each bundle of masks on the door.
11点左右，皮克回家，又等了半小时才在群里通知大家可以开门取口罩了。
Around 11 o'clock, Pike went home and waited another half hour before announcing in the group that he could open the door to get his mask.
这时候他才想起来，供奉饺子时候忘了摆筷子，“神仙不会怪罪我吧”。
Only then did he remember that he forgot to put his chopsticks on the dumplings. "The gods will not blame me," he said.
大年初二，皮克女友的闺蜜确诊了，家里好几个大人都去了酒店隔离，唯一健康的女儿由外婆在家照顾，家里急需消毒液。
On the second day of the New Year, Pick's girlfriend's boudoir confirmed that several adults in the family went to the hotel seclusion, the only healthy daughter by grandmother at home, the family badly need disinfectant.
皮克很沮丧，在群里问：谁家有富余的消毒液，如果方便，能否匀出来一部分，“放在你们家门口的电梯口就好了，我自己去取，免得见面。
"Pike, frustrated, asked in the group," Who has any spare disinfectant, and if it's convenient, if you can spare some of it. "Just leave it at the elevator in front of your house.
”有人积极响应。
"Some responded positively.
皮克上门去取，发现陌生的邻居早早打开家门，等着自己出现——他昨天收到了皮克送的口罩，执意要当面感谢。
Pick went to pick it up and found his strange neighbor, who had received a Pike mask yesterday and was determined to thank him personally, opened his door early and waited for him to appear.
皮克因为担心自己已被感染，扒着电梯门不出去，隔着四五米喊话：“不用感谢，你赶紧回去！”2月19日，武汉百步亭社区，窗台边的一位老人。
Fearing that he was infected, Pike could not go out through the elevator door and shouted four or five meters away: "No thanks, you must hurry back!" Feb. 19, Wuhan Baibuting community, window sill by an old man.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄记 录大年初三晚上，皮克家小区外几栋高楼的巨幅LED屏，忽然亮起了红色的“武汉加油”。
On the evening of the Chinese New Year, the huge LED screens of several high-rise buildings outside Pike's house suddenly lit up the red "Wuhan refueling."
小区邻居胡大哥是无人机爱好者，觉得口号“燃”，“应该要记录一下”，于是爬到楼顶开始拍摄。
Neighboring Hu Da Ge is drone enthusiast, feel the slogan "burn", "should be recorded," so climbed to the top of the building to start filming.
第一段视频才15秒，发在小区业主群里。
The first video was only 15 seconds long and was distributed among small business owners.
画面里一栋亮灯大楼，皮克认出“那是10年前武汉的最高楼”。
The picture shows a brightly lit building, which Pique recognizes as "the tallest building in Wuhan 10 years ago."
他的窗外是六车道的建设大道，平时汽车川流不息。
Outside his window was a six-lane thoroughfare of construction, and there was a steady stream of cars.
如果不是疫情暴发，这个时节，武汉的街上和小区里该是人声喧哗。
If the outbreak had not occurred, this season, Wuhan streets and small areas should be noisy.
人们热热闹闹地走出家门，来到街上，高声地彼此招呼。
People came out of the house noisily and came out into the street, shouting hello to each other.
但他们拍到的武汉一片寂寥，商圈和社区都紧闭门户。
But they took a lonely shot of Wuhan, the business circle and the community closed the door.
Vlog博主马峰，每隔一天就全副武装地上一次街，举着他的镜头。
Vlog Boss Ma Ma Feng, every other day on the heavily armed street, holding his camera.
街上安静得令他发慌。
The street was quiet enough for him to panic.
银行、小店铺和他常去的健身房都关了门。
Banks, small shops and the gymnasium he frequented were closed.
路上的车一只手能数得过来。
A car on the road can be counted in one hand.
行人稀少，绝大部分人戴上了口罩，偶尔能见到不戴口罩的大爷双手抄着兜走过。
Pedestrians are rare, most wear masks, and occasionally a man without a mask walks by with his hands folded.
大型超市是街面上最有人气的地方。
Large supermarkets are the most popular places on the street.
马峰以前觉得在超市排队特别烦，这一次，“我专门找到人排队的地方，感觉好幸福啊，碰到人了！”大年初五，马峰在家附近的汤逊湖边溜达，看见一个大爷正在持杆垂钓，身边4个大爷在围观。
Ma Feng used to feel particularly bored in the supermarket line, this time, "I find people queuing up, feel very happy, meet people!"
大爷们都穿着睡衣，戴口罩，彼此并不交谈……画面颇为滑稽，“大家就是憋坏了”。
The men were all wearing pajamas and masks and didn't talk to each other... The picture was funny. "Everyone was pissed off."
1月29日，汤逊湖边的垂钓者和围观者阿娇每天也用手机拍上一段视频。
On January 29, a fisherman and a spectator by the lake, Ajiao, also made a video on his cell phone every day.
她在29楼的窗口，举着手机向下。
She's at the 29th floor window, holding her cell phone down.
有时候能看到一辆快递电瓶车出现在小区，俯瞰像只蚂蚁。
Sometimes you can see an express truck in the neighborhood, looking down like an ant.
阿娇把大拇指伸出窗外，说“终于有人给我们送这送那……赞”。
Gillian put his thumb out of the window and said, "Finally someone gave us this... good..."
天气多阴霾，偶遇晴好，阿娇也不忘在视频里开心提上一嘴。
How cloudy the weather, occasional good, Gillian also did not forget in the video happy mention a mouth.
她们全家不出门，但每天要看天气预报，火神山、雷神山两座临时医院日以继夜施工时，人们满怀希望，期盼着能赶紧竣工，生病的人能“应收尽收”。
Their families do not go out, but every day to see the weather forecast, the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan two temporary hospitals around the clock, people are full of hope that can be completed quickly, the sick people can "receivable.
2月10日，有人拍到北湖路上，一位被感染的市民等到了医疗转运车，被送往医院。
On 10 February, an infected citizen was photographed on the North Lake Road waiting for a medical transfer truck to be taken to hospital.
他的老父亲，穿着睡衣，原本隔着两三米目送，忽然骑上电动车，一路跟在转运车后相送。
His old father, dressed in pajamas, had been seen two or three meters apart, suddenly mounted an electric car, all the way after the transfer car.
也是这天，阿娇得知从小就认识的一位医生伯伯被感染，好在“病情好转，往轻症的地方隔离了”。
Also that day, Gillian learned from childhood to know a doctor uncle was infected, Fortunately, "the condition improved, to the location of mild isolation."
她那位拍钓鱼视频的同事不再拍摄小视频，只是上传家里生机勃勃的绿色植物的图片。
Her fishing-video co-worker no longer makes small videos, but simply uploads pictures of the family's vibrant green plants.
阿娇觉得大哥情绪有时候“低气压”，猜测他多半听见了不好的消息。
Gillian thinks elder brother mood sometimes "low pressure", conjecture he mostly heard bad news.
解封之日未定，“武汉豆瓣”小组里的氛围也在变化。
Unsealed day is not determined, "Wuhan Douban" team atmosphere is also changing.
人们不再热衷分析“封城之后能干什么”，更忙着交换身边人“排查”“做核酸”的信息，分析每日公布的疫情数据，或者交流买菜、买药的心得体会……有人失眠，有人担心——不再有人责怪别人倾诉焦虑，有人写道，“这些说着丧气话的普通人……更能给我信心”。
People are no longer keen to analyze what they can do after a siege, but rather to exchange information about what they do with each other, to analyze the epidemic data they publish every day, or to share their experiences of buying food and medicine.
2月16日，湖北省武汉市，利济路上，一名市民躺在栏杆上晒太阳。
On Feb. 16, a citizen lies on the railing of Liji Road, Wuhan, Hubei province, to bask in the sun.
中青报·中青网记者李隽辉/摄900万人的眼睛、镜头和文字都在记录着历史。
The eyes, lenses and words of 9 million people of Zhongqing News Zhongqing Net journalist Li meaningful hui / 9 million record the history.
65岁的武汉作家方方受文学杂志《收获》邀请，开始写“封城记”。
Wuhan writer Fang Fang, 65, was invited by the literary magazine Harvest to write "The Book of Seals."
她困于湖北省文联的宿舍大院里，一个人和一条16岁的老狗作伴。
Trapped in a dormitory courtyard in Hubei province, she was accompanied by a 16-year-old dog.
方方每天吃点清淡的粥菜，晚上在跑步机上走步一小时。
Fang Fang eats a light porridge every day and walks on the treadmill for an hour at night.
她说，往年年关，大院里车来车往，满是迎客送客的笑声。
She said that in previous years, the yard to the car, full of guests to see off the laughter.
不远处的东湖，但凡周末，道路会堵得一塌糊涂，如今空无一人。
East Lake not far away, but every weekend, the road would be blocked, now empty.
封城半个月，武汉许多小区建起了互助买菜群。
Half a month after the city was closed, many districts in Wuhan set up mutual help to buy vegetables.
业主们轮班制，集体采购、分发、领取。
Owners work in shifts, making group purchases, distributing and collecting.
方方通过采购群订购过猪肉，她感慨：“生活那么艰难，但办法还是有的。
Fang ordered pork through the purchasing group and lamented: "Life is so difficult, but there are ways."
”她觉得武汉人“又爽快又坦诚又吊儿郎当又听话”。
Wuhan, she thought, was "frank, open and disobedient."
疫情暴发后，她在网上看到诸多医护人员和病人的视频，“那种悲哀无助的感受，我今生从未有过。
After the outbreak, she saw videos of health-care workers and patients online. "The feeling of sadness and helplessness I've never had in my life.
”小曲一直在追方方的日记，也开始在电脑里每天写日记。
Xiaoqu has been tracking Fang Fang's diary and started keeping a diary every day on her computer.
大概剧集看多了，她有了些英雄念头，跑去豆瓣“自由吃瓜”小组发帖：如果你穿越到两个月前，有没有办法把这件事情减少损失？小组成员给她泼冷水，她感慨，“大家的回答，都太现实了。
Perhaps the show was over, she had some heroic ideas, and she went to the Doubane "Free to Eat Melon" group to post: If you cross two months ago, is there any way to reduce the damage? Panelists threw cold water on her, saying, "Everyone's answers are too realistic.
”2月7日，年轻的武汉医生李文亮去世的消息传来，小曲心情无法平静。
On February 7, the news of the death of young Wuhan doctor Li Wenliang came, and Xiaoqu could not calm down.
许多情绪在她心里来回冲撞，许多问题她得不到答案。
Many emotions ran through her mind, and many questions eluded her.
城市的伤口终会愈合，但有些人会一直被封印在伤口下，小曲告诉自己，“不要忘，忘得慢一点……”这也是皮克所想，这一天，他在微信朋友圈写下“只怕记忆太短暂”。
The wounds of the city will heal, but some will remain sealed, and the ditty tells himself, "Don't forget, forget it a little..." This is also Pike's idea, one day he wrote in a microphone circle of friends, "Just afraid the memory is too short."
皮克挺过了14天的隔离期，他是健康的。
Pike survived the 14-day quarantine, and he was healthy.
但他的小区里有人被“抬出去”——病毒带走的生命越来越多。
But someone in his neighborhood was "carried out" - more and more lives were taken away by the virus.
邻居胡大哥的无人机视频越拍越长，镜头里的武汉湿漉漉的，画面中有从头防护到脚的医务人员，也有闪着灯的警车和救护车。
The longer a neighbor's UAV is filmed, Wuhan is wet, with medical staff from scratch and a police car and ambulance flashing lights.
在一段视频的尾声，这位业余摄影师打上了拍摄日期，还打了4个字：“此生不忘。
At the end of a video clip, the amateur photographer put the date on and typed four words: "Never forget this life.
”皮克拍的武汉夜景*文中小曲、阿娇、皮克为化名，部分图片出自受访者和中青报视觉中心微信公号“守候微光”。
The songs, Gillian and Pike are pseudonyms, some of which are taken from the interviewee and the official Weixin official line "Waiting for the Light" of the Visual Center of the China Youth Daily.
*本文由冰点周刊、腾讯新闻谷雨联合出品，仅在腾讯新闻平台和中青报发布，未经授权不得转载。
* This article is produced jointly by Freezing Point Weekly and Tencent News Grain Rain. It is only released on Tencent News Platform and Zhongqing News, and cannot be reproduced without authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
苦中作乐的武汉人，此生不忘的这些天。
Wuhan people who are happy in life, these days do not forget.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "苦中作乐的武汉人，此生不忘的这些天";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“冷也好，热也好，活着就好”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Cold or hot, or alive" & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
