封城下的“出行难题”和急需去医院的人们。
The "travel problem" below the city and the urgent need to go to the hospital.
陈星萌、薛雨霏等。
Meng Chen, Xue Ru Fei, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
封城，已经过去了一周。
A week has passed since the city was closed.
市内交通停运、机动车中心城区限行，让这座现代城市里习惯了汽车、地铁出行的人们突然之间陷入寸步难行的境地。
The city's traffic stoppages and traffic restrictions in the center of the city's motor vehicles have suddenly left the modern city accustomed to cars and subways in desperate straits.
文 | 陈星萌、薛雨霏、谢婵、高逸佳编辑 | 小豆自1月23日10时武汉封城，到今天已经一周了。
It has been a week since Meng Chen, Xue Ru Fei, Xie Chan and Gao Yiga, and that Xiao Bean has been sealed in Wuhan since 10: 00 on January 23.
市内交通停运、机动车中心城区限行，让这座现代城市里已经习惯了汽车、地铁出行的人们突然之间陷入寸步难行的境地。
The city's traffic jams and restrictions on the city's central urban areas have suddenly left the modern city accustomed to cars and subways in desperate straits.
需要上下班的医护人员、需要定时透析的尿毒症患者、急性病发作需要去医院的病人...... 亟需出行的个体四处求助，各种以前不曾考虑的出行问题都成了问题。
Health workers who need to commute, uremic patients who need regular dialysis, patients who need to go to hospitals for acute attacks... individuals who need to travel around for help are having problems with travel problems that were not previously considered.
1月25日，大年初一，已关闭的武汉汉口黄浦路地铁站。
January 25, the New Year's Day, the closed Wuhan Hankou Huangpu Road subway station.
（图源：中国日报网）为方便透析住酒店，两天饿瘦两公斤40岁的尿毒症患者田磊每周需要进行三次每次为时四个小时的肾透析。
Tian Lei, a 40-year-old uremic who is hungry for two days, needs kidney dialysis three times a week for four hours to facilitate dialysis at the hotel.
以前他都是去离家30公里外的协和医院做透析。
Before, he had gone to Concorde Hospital, 30 kilometers from his home, for dialysis.
虽然有点远，但步行十分钟、地铁一小时就可以到达。
It's a little far, but you can get there by walking for ten minutes and the subway in an hour.
然而1月23日那天，田磊从医院做完透析出来，武汉已经开始封城，公共交通停运，田磊靠着骑共享单车加上步行，经过晴川桥和长江大桥，前后用了五个小时才回到家。
On January 23, however, after dialysis from the hospital, Wuhan had begun to shut down, public transport stopped, and Tian Lei spent five hours riding and walking through Qingchuan Bridge and Changjiang Bridge before returning home.
这么走了一次之后，没有私家车的田磊决定到医院附近的酒店暂住。
After a walk like this, Tian Lei, who has no private car, decided to stay at a hotel near the hospital.
酒店房费一天120元，他说，这与平时价格差不多，可能因为没有外地人来住，价格甚至还降了一些。
The room rate is 120 yuan a day, he said. 'It's about the same price as usual.
但是对于大部分没有工作和收入的透析病人来说，在酒店住宿绝对是一个奢侈的选择。
But for most dialysis patients with no job or income, staying at a hotel is a luxury.
然而，大年三十刚刚在酒店住了一天，田磊就因为酒店停止营业，被赶了出来。
However, just after spending a day at the hotel, Tian Lei was thrown out because the hotel was closed.
他只能再去找一家住，目前还在营业的酒店已经不多了。
He had to find another place to stay, and the number of hotels that were still open was running low.
同样，饭馆、商店也都陆续停业。
Similarly, restaurants and shops have been closed down.
一个人住在酒店，一日三餐成了田磊最大的问题：“房间里没有冰箱，明天又没有饭吃了，只能找到什么吃什么。
Living alone in a hotel, three meals a day is Tian Lei's biggest problem: "There is no refrigerator in the room, and tomorrow there will be no food but what to eat.
医院是重疫区，食堂只对医护。
Hospitals are highly affected areas and canteens are for medical care only.
我每次透析都会量体重，大年三十和初一这两天我已经饿瘦了两公斤。
I weigh every time I dialyse. I've lost two kilograms of hunger in my late thirties and junior high days.
”1月26日，武汉二环线竹叶山立交桥路段行驶的汽车不多。
On January 26, there were not many cars on the bamboo-leaf mountain flyover in Wuhan's Second Ring Road.
（图源：中国日报网）像田磊一样因为交通问题导致无法定时透析治疗的病人还有很多，但是选择住酒店的病人并不多。
(Source: China Daily) Like Tian Lei, there are still many patients who cannot be dialyzed regularly because of traffic problems, but not many people choose to stay in hotels.
“有钱的多半有车，没车开的又多半没钱。
"Most of them have cars, and most of them don't have money.
住酒店的经济压力实在太大了。
The financial pressure to stay in the hotel is too great.
有一部分人靠步行和共享单车硬抗，也有一部分人选择找社区帮助。
Some people fight hard by walking and sharing bicycles, while others choose to seek community help.
”田磊说。
"said Tian Lei.
田磊表示，现在有很多患者坐社区派的车去透析。
Mr. Tian says many patients now use community-driven cars for dialysis.
但是不同社区情况不一，有些社区无法提供派车：“比如太远，说跨区不走。
But the situation varies from one community to another, with some communities unable to provide vehicles: "For example, it is too far away to move across districts.
比如说二医院南京路可以24小时透析，但晚上又没车接送。
For example, Nanjing Road, the second hospital, has 24-hour dialysis, but no transport at night.
各区情况不一样，资源不一样，态度也不一样。
The situation varies from region to region, from resource to resource and from attitude.
”这样的派车服务存在志愿者服务、社区派遣和自己付车费三种形式。
There are three types of car-delivery services: volunteer service, community dispatching and car-paying.
田磊还担心一些老弱的需要轮椅助行的尿毒症患者，他们往往没有什么社交，也没有加入信息灵通的病友群，如果是独居的话，可能会更危险。
Mr. Tian is also worried about the elderly and vulnerable uremic who need wheelchairs, who often have little social contact and do not belong to a well-informed group of patients, which can be even more dangerous if they live alone.
急性肠炎患者艰难寻车1月28日下午三点钟，窝在家里上网的周洁突然感到剧烈的腹痛。
Acute enteritis patients struggling to find cars January 28 at 3 p.m., nest at home on the Internet Zhou Jie suddenly feel a severe abdominal pain.
自从武汉封城之后，她不怎么出门，不过偶尔还是会出门买菜。
She hasn't gone out much since Wuhan was closed, but she has occasionally gone out shopping.
一想到这里，再加上这几天一直嗓子疼，现在又浑身发热，她不禁怀疑自己是不是感染了新型冠状病毒？她赶紧戴上口罩，也让母亲戴好口罩离她远一些。
She wondered if she was infected with the new coronavirus. She quickly put on a mask and told her mother to wear a mask and stay away from her.
忍了两个小时后疼痛没有丝毫好转，一边的母亲干着急也没办法。
After two hours of endurance, the pain did not improve, and the mother on one side couldn't help worrying.
她打了120想要救护车，却一直打不通，打110也没打通。
She called 120 for an ambulance, but she couldn't get through, nor did she get through to 110.
下午五点半，周洁已经疼得快没有力气打字了，她请朋友帮自己发了找车的朋友圈，并在志愿者车群里询问附近的车。
At 5: 30 p. m., Zhou Jie was so sore that she had no energy to type. She asked her friends to help her find her friend's circle of friends and to ask the cars nearby in the volunteer group.
很快志愿者车群里不少司机师傅主动询问，但他们那个时间点正在高速口接送医护人员，距离太远暂时赶不过去。
Soon many of the drivers in the volunteer corps volunteered to ask, but they were picking up paramedics at the highway at that time, too far to catch up.
1月28日，汉口澳门路至武昌的武汉长江公铁隧道，已关闭。
January 28, Hankou Road to Wuchang Wuhan Yangtze River Tunnel, has been closed.
（图源：中国日报网）下午六点，一位朋友发给了她社区的用车电话，社区在接通电话之后安抚她先不要紧张，很快就找车过来。
(Source: China Daily) At 6 p. m., a friend gave her a car phone in her community. After she got through, the community reassured her not to get nervous and quickly looked for a car.
就这样，经过了三个小时的生理和心理折磨，周洁终于坐上车踏上了去医院的路。
In this way, after three hours of physical and psychological torture, Zhou Jie finally got on the bus and set off for the hospital.
到了医院，已经烧到38度的周洁先被派到发热门诊做了肺炎排查，然后在急诊做CT和抽血，折腾到晚上8点，医生初步诊断是急性肠炎，周洁这才安了心，拿了药回家休息。
At the hospital, Zhou Jie, who had burned to 38 degrees, was sent to the fever clinic to have a pneumonia screening, then emergency CT and blood extraction, toss until 8 pm, the doctor initially diagnosed acute enteritis, Zhou Jie this Anxin, took medicine home to rest.
生病后周洁给朋友们的提醒回家的路上，开车的司机告诉周洁自己也是志愿者，当时社区在微信群里发了用车求助信息之后，很多志愿者都抢着报名接病人，由于自己相对而言是距离最近的，于是放下碗筷就出发了。
On the way home from his illness, the driver told Zhou Jie that he was a volunteer, too, and that many volunteers were rushing to collect patients because they were relatively close, so they set off.
民间爱心车队帮助解决医护人员通勤问题1月23日武汉封城，24日，李东集结的某民间爱心车队承担起了接送医护人员上下班的任务。
On January 23, Wuhan closed the city of Wuhan, a folk love convoy of Li Dong gathered to take medical workers to and from work.
社会各界的及时反应和自救给这个疫情笼罩的城市带来一丝希望。
The community's timely response and self-help to the epidemic shrouded in the city to bring a glimmer of hope.
据本地媒体报道，通过当地一些民间组织的号召，有4000多名车主陆续自发加入了各种民间爱心车队。
According to local media reports, through a number of local non-governmental organizations, more than 4,000 owners have spontaneously joined the various folk love convoys.
然而，爱心车队仅仅运行了一天，25日16：00，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布9号通告，宣布除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理。
However, the love of the team only one day, 25, 16: 00, Wuhan, the new coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia command issued a notice 9, except for licensed transport vehicles, free transport vehicles, official vehicles, the central urban areas of the implementation of motor vehicle ban management.
1月24日，大年三十，下午3时，武汉黄鹤楼前汽车行人不多。
January 24, about 30, at 3 p.m., Wuhan Yellow Crane Tower in front of a small number of pedestrians.
（图源：中国日报网）收到消息后，李东在名为“武汉接送”的微信群里发了一条通知，告知大家自明日起，爱心接送医护人员出行的车队工作可以告一段落了。
(Source: China Daily) After receiving the news, Li Dong sent a notice in a microphone group called "Wuhan pick-up" informing everyone that from tomorrow onwards, the work of the convoy carrying medical personnel will be over.
“也许官方人力配备到位，不需要我们民间力量了，我们可以在家好好休息了。
"Maybe the official manpower is in place, we don't need the strength of our people, we can have a good rest at home.
”李东说。
'said Li Dong.
群里的几个护士却开始发愁第二天如何上班。
The nurses in the group began to worry about how to get to work the next day.
这个问题从武汉封城起就摆在她们面前。
This question has been before them since the sealing of Wuhan city.
市内公共交通停运之后，如何出行似乎成了时间成本与金钱成本的较量。
After the city's public transportation has been shut down, how to travel seems to become the time cost and the money cost contest.
对于没有私家车的医护人员和必须要到岗的其他防疫工作者来说，留给他们的选择只有步行和自行车。
For medical staff without private cars and other immunization workers who must be on duty, the only options left for them are walking and bicycling.
1月25日深夜，武汉市交管局进行紧急解释：对非用于疫情防控工作的机动车实行禁行管理，会通过手机短信形式提前24小时告知车主，未接到短信通知的机动车可以通行。
Late last night on January 25, the Wuhan Municipal Bureau of Trade and Industry gave an urgent explanation: motor vehicles not used for epidemic prevention and control work are banned, and owners are informed 24 hours in advance by text message that motor vehicles not notified by text message are allowed to cross the border.
对违反者从严从重处罚，直至记12分。
Aggravated penalties were imposed on violators until 12 points were recorded.
一些车主一直等到凌晨，没有接到短信通知，才放下心来。
Some owners waited until the early hours of the morning, did not receive a text message notice, just relax.
对于这个公共交通已经停摆的城市，大家不敢想象如果私家车被禁行、车队被停掉之后会发生什么。
For a city where public transport has stopped, it is hard to imagine what would happen if private cars were banned and caravans were stopped.
张宇是李东爱心车队中的一名车主。
Zhang Yu is a car owner in Li Dong's Loving Team.
在车队的群里，志愿者会更新整理需要出行的医护人员需求，他看到有能力帮一把的，就按照志愿者留下的信息去联系，一天里，他接送了三名医护人员，他们都是从武汉市外赶回来医院工作的。
In the group, volunteers updated the needs of the medical staff who needed to travel. Seeing those who were able to help, he contacted the volunteers according to the information they had left. In one day, he picked up three medical workers, all of whom had come back from outside Wuhan.
大家约定好，搭车的医务人员会给车主提供手套、酒精，84消毒液和过氧化氢，帮助车主做好消毒。
It was agreed that the paramedic would provide the owner with gloves, alcohol, disinfectant and hydrogen peroxide to help disinfect the owner.
张宇说在接送乘客前，会用酒精擦拭座位和门把手，并至少留15分钟给车通风。
Zhang said he would wipe the seats and doorknobs with alcohol and keep them ventilated for at least 15 minutes before taking passengers.
26日下午，滴滴app开发的仅供医护人员线上叫车的功能投入使用。
On the afternoon of the 26th, drip app developed only for on-line medical personnel to call the function of the car.
截至28日下午18：30，平台已经接入武汉市7家医院9个院区的3713名医护工作者。
As of 18: 30 pm on the 28th, the platform has connected 3,713 medical workers from 9 hospital districts in Wuhan city.
外地休假护士盼回武汉支援，苦等无车李菲是武汉某医院的护士，之前她根据单位休假安排正常回到襄阳老家。
Vacation nurses from other places are looking forward to Wuhan support, bitter waiting for a car-free Li Fei is a Wuhan hospital nurses, before she returned to Xiangyang normal unit vacation arrangements.
疫情爆发后她便想要返回武汉支援，可是如何回去成了难题。
After the outbreak, she wanted to return to Wuhan to support, but how to go back has become a problem.
李菲在微博、朋友圈、微信群求助，希望能有顺路的车载她回武汉，可一直到了要回武汉上班的时间，她还没有找到车。
Li Fei in micro-blogging, circle of friends, micro-groups for help, hope to have the next car back to Wuhan, but until the time to return to Wuhan, she has not found a car.
身处枝江市的护士宋红遇到了同样的困境。
Song Hong, a nurse in Zhijiang, is in the same predicament.
枝江市内也在实行机动车限行，她希望能找到类似运输物资的、从枝江市出发的公路车顺便将她带回武汉支援，可一直未能得到回应。
Traffic restrictions are also being imposed in Zhijiang, and she hopes to find a highway bus from Zhijiang that will carry similar supplies and bring her back to Wuhan to support her, but no response has been forthcoming.
除了没有车外，李菲还面临着其他阻力。
In addition to the lack of a car, Li Fei faces other obstacles.
按规定，武汉车队群的车只能由市内开至武汉的高速路口，而医务人员要提供证明才能通过。
According to regulations, Wuhan fleet of vehicles can only drive from the city to Wuhan high-speed intersection, and medical personnel to provide certification to pass.
李菲说，之前开这个证明需要盖一个章，后来又要求换另外一个章，直到现在她的证明还没有处理好。
Li said the previous certificate required a stamp, and then another chapter, until now her certificate had not been processed.
“8号令”出台，社区配车各有各解释徐好和老公都在医院上班，今年没有回家过春节，一直等待调度，准备哪里需要去哪里。
Xu and her husband are working at the hospital. They haven't been home for the Spring Festival this year, waiting for dispatch, ready to go where they need to go.
因为家在武汉远城区，本来想跟护士长申请协调在离家较近的分院上班，但是分院这边医护人员充足，现在总部人手不够，她必须去总部。
Since her home was in Wuhan Yuancheng District, she had wanted to apply to the head nurse for coordination with her work in a branch near her home, but there was a sufficient number of medical staff on this side of the compound.
听说每个社区会配备3-5台车后，她已经给社区连续打了三天电话，后来还把电话打到了市政府，得到的回应都是没有足够的车，就算有工作证和相关的证明也没有用。
After hearing that each community would be equipped with three to five cars, she had been calling the community for three days and then calling the city government, only to be told that there were not enough cars, even with a work permit and relevant certificates.
志愿者车队群无人回应，她在滴滴平台上的认证也还没有通过。
There was no response from the volunteer convoy and her certification on the drip-drip platform had not yet passed.
徐好告诉记者，群里面没有通过认证的同事还有很多，为了找车，愁得她几个晚上都睡不着觉。
Xu Hao told reporters that the group did not pass the certification of colleagues there are many, in order to find cars, worried that she can not sleep several nights.
1月24日，指挥部下达8号令，宣布为中心城区每个社区配备3—5台车，主要是为解决市民居家出行不便等问题。
On 24 January, the Command issued Order No. 8, which announced the provision of three to five vehicles for each commune in the central city, mainly to address inconveniences in the movement of residents within their homes.
但在不同社区这些车辆的使用情况却不相同。
However, the use of these vehicles varies from community to community.
（图源：湖北之声）汉阳区某社区书记告诉记者，这些出租车是为居民提供送菜、送药和送餐的服务，一般是不送人的，但在医护人员有接送需求的时候也会提供帮助。
(Source: Voice of Hubei) Hanyang District, a community secretary told reporters that these taxis are to provide residents with food, medicine and delivery services, generally not people, but also when the medical staff needs to help.
另一位社区负责人则表示，社区分配的出租车主要是为辖区的困难群体以及不方便出行的人（比如孤寡老人、空巢老人）等老弱病残的住户提供方便，或者作为应急使用的。
Another community leader said that taxis distributed by the community were mainly for disadvantaged groups in the district and for people who were inconvenient to travel, such as the elderly, empty nests, etc., or for emergency use.
这些车并不是用来解决医护人员出行问题的，医护人员自身可能携带病菌，如果病菌残留在车上很可能会感染其他乘客。
These vehicles are not designed to deal with the travel problems of medical staff, who may carry their own germs and may infect other passengers if left in the vehicle.
“医护人员应该有专门的接送车辆接送。
"The paramedics should have special delivery vehicles.
”1月28日，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理后。
On January 28, the central city area was banned from motor vehicles.
全市紧急征集6000台出租车，分配给中心城区，由社区居委会统一调度使用。
The whole city urgently collects 6000 taxis, distributes to the central city area, by the community neighborhood committee unified dispatch uses.
（图源：中国日报网）最后徐好终于联系上一个有车的同事，她打算在家里收拾一下直接拖一个行李箱去医院，然后就住在那边不回来了。
Xu finally got in touch with a colleague who had a car. She decided to pack a suitcase at home and go to the hospital instead of staying there.
“住在家里当然相对来说比较安全，我和老公一人一个房间也是足够隔离的。
"It's relatively safe to live at home, and my husband and I have separate rooms.
但是没有办法，克服一下吧。
But there's nothing we can do about it.
”说到这里她苦笑了一下。
"She smiled bitterly at this.
“交通管制给我们市民造成很大的影响。
"Traffic control has a great impact on our citizens.
社区里还有好多待产的孕妇、要做透析的患者，都没有车，他们比我们的情况更紧急，所以还是把车留给更需要的人吧。
There are a lot of expectant mothers, dialysis patients in the community who don't have a car, they're more urgent than we are, so leave the car to someone more in need.
”（应采访对象要求，文中人名均为化名，冯洁、李叙瑾对本文亦有贡献）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
(2) Feng Jie and Li Shu Jin also contributed to this article at the request of the interviewee. Feel free to share it with your friends, e-mail to newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城下的“出行难题”和急需去医院的人们。
The "travel problem" below the city and the urgent need to go to the hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封城下的“出行难题”和急需去医院的人们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; urgently needed to go to hospital.
var msg_desc = "封城，已经过去了一周";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a week; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
