重度抑郁症患者断药后。
Patients with severe depression after withdrawal of medication.
成琨 李仪。
Chenkun Li Yi.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
“要是我能得肺炎就好了。
"If only I could get pneumonia.
”疫情围困，会让重度抑郁症患者产生一些可怕念头。
An outbreak of the siege could lead to some terrible thoughts for people with severe depression.
断药威胁下，他们展开自救，并积极行动起来去援助处境更加凶险的病友。
Under the threat of drugs, they began to help themselves, and to act to help their more dangerous friends.
在“想死”和“好好活”之间，这些破碎的人一次次重建内心。
Between "wanting to die" and "living well," these broken people rebuild their hearts again and again.
故事时间：2020年故事地点：福建、湖北、北京断药21点26分，大二学生轰仔挣扎着从噩梦中醒来，昏睡了一整天的她正准备吃今天的第一餐饭。
Story: 2020 Story: Fujian, Hubei, Beijing medicine 21: 26, sophomore students struggling to wake up from a nightmare, sleepy all day she is preparing to eat today's first meal.
这不是她第一次作息颠倒，整个寒假，她一直活在夜里。
It was not the first time she had turned upside down. All winter long she had lived at night.
2019年12月，19岁的轰仔去精神科复诊，确诊为重度抑郁，开始按照医嘱每日服一次药。
In December 2019, the 19-year-old was referred to the psychiatric department for a re-examination, diagnosed with severe depression, and began taking the prescribed medication once a day.
在精神类药物的副作用下，她产生了嗜睡、恶心、四肢乏力等明显的躯体化症状。
As a side effect of psychoactive drugs, she developed symptoms of somatization such as lethargy, nausea, and weakness in her limbs.
“感觉要死了，我准备先写个遗书。
I am going to write a suicide note first.
”这样的念头一直在轰仔脑子里打转。
"The thought kept running through his mind.
服药的副作用是难耐的，但轰仔说，更痛苦的是没有药吃：“药，就是命。
The side effects of taking the drug were intolerable, but the more painful thing, Boom said, was that there was no medicine: "Medicine is life."
”曾有一次外出，轰仔躺在酒店的床上焦灼不安，想起似乎忘了带药。
Once he went out, and while lying on his bed in a hotel, he remembered that he seemed to have forgotten his medicine.
她不知所措，一遍又一遍地爬起来翻找药物，但却一无所获，只能躺回床上。
She was at a loss and got up again and again to look for the medicine, but nothing came of it but lay back in bed.
头晕、头疼、耳鸣、眼球刺痛，戒断反应折磨得她一夜未眠。
Dizziness, headaches, tinnitus, tinnitus of the eyes, abstinence from the reaction to torture her sleepless night.
正事办不成了，她第二日匆匆回程。
Business failed her, and she hurried back the next day.
从那以后，轰仔再也不敢擅自停药，去哪里都随身带药。
Since then, Rob no longer dare to stop taking drugs, go everywhere to take medicine.
若是要出远门，她会在行李箱里备上一份病例和处方单，这样即使药吃完了，也方便在当地就诊开药。
If she had to travel long distances, she would keep a copy of her case and prescription list in her suitcase so that she could easily prescribe drugs locally even when she was finished.
吞下那粒小药丸带来的心理安慰，能让她安心片刻。
The comfort of swallowing that little pill reassured her for a moment.
今年春节回福建老家，轰仔随身带了28片盐酸文拉法辛缓释片，一天一片，足够春节期间在家服用。
Back home in Fujian this Spring Festival, Rozette took 28 tablets of Venlafaxine Hydrochloride with him one tablet a day, enough for the Spring Festival at home.
原本以为家乡受疫情影响不大，如果药吃完了，就在当地医院开药。
Originally thought that the hometown is not affected by the epidemic, if the medicine has run out, on the local hospital prescription.
结果1月30日，轰仔所在的小区开始实行封闭管理。
As a result, on January 30, the small area in which Rob was located began to implement closed management.
轰仔后知后觉，2月7日发现余下的药只够吃五天了。
After a rumble, February 7 found that the remaining medicine only five days.
她立马想起了戒断反应下脆弱又痛苦的自己，陷入了焦虑。
She immediately remembered her fragile and painful self under the withdrawal reaction and fell into anxiety.
不惜一切代价也要买到药。
Buy medicine at all costs.
一秒也不敢耽误。
Not a second.
轰仔先是查询本地的精神卫生中心公众号，却发现精神科门诊在未来几周内都没有排班。
After inquiring about the public number of the local mental health centre, Rob found that the psychiatric clinic was not scheduled for the next few weeks.
这时，夹在病历和一沓处方单中间的卡片掉在地上，轰仔捡起来发现是复诊医师的名片。
At this point, the card sandwiched between the medical record and a wad of prescription forms fell to the floor, and Rob picked it up and found it was the doctor's name card.
扫描上面的二维码后，她进入到一家网上诊室的公众号。
Scanning the upper two-dimensional code, she entered a public phone number in an online consultation room.
受访者供图 |轰仔在网上诊室购药从医生线上义诊到审核处方单，轰仔等了4个小时。
Respondents at Roppongi & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
之后，轰仔又等了5天快递。
After that, Rob waited another five days for express delivery.
直到家里只剩下一片药，轰仔恨不得把它掰成两片来吃时，送药的快递终于到了。
Until there was only one piece of medicine left in the house, Rob wanted to break it into two pieces to eat, the express delivery finally arrived.
疫情下，封城封村，断药成了这群抑郁症患者共同面临的现实危机。
Under the epidemic situation, the closure of the village, drug withdrawal has become a group of depression patients face a real crisis.
特殊时期，医生宽限了药量，给轰仔开了42天的剂量。
During the special period, the doctor relaxed the dosage and prescribed 42 days to the baby.
轰仔拿到药后长舒一口气 ，把快递盒紧紧攥住。
After getting the medicine, Rob heaved a sigh of relief and gripped the express box tightly.
精神类处方药有很强的副作用，一次最多只能开两周的量，并且只有在精神卫生中心或三甲医院的精神科室才能开具。
Psychotropic prescription drugs have strong side effects, can only be prescribed for up to two weeks at a time, and can only be prescribed in mental health centres or psychiatric departments in triple A hospitals.
2017年，WHO发布精神疾病报告，中国的抑郁症发病率达到了4.2%。
In 2017, the World Health Organization published a report on mental illness, with China's depression rate at 4.2%.
最新数据显示，中国抑郁症患者数量已达到了9000万。
The latest figures show that the number of people suffering from depression in China has reached 90 million.
然而，像轰仔这样依靠自己的力量获得药的人只是少数。
Yet only a handful of people, like the blockbuster, have access to drugs on their own.
“我都停药两天了，抑郁从轻到重。
"I've been taking medication for two days and the depression is mild to severe.
”“我不敢去医院开药，体质太差了。
"I dare not go to the hospital to prescribe drugs; my health is very poor.
”在病友群里，还有人认真地问：“要是村里的人知道我在找抑郁症的药，以后我嫁不出去了怎么办？”病耻感加大了药物的获取难度，还容易让药贩子钻空子。
Among the sick, others asked earnestly: "What if the villagers knew I was looking for a medicine for depression, and I couldn't get married?" The stigma made it harder to get drugs and made it easier for drug dealers to take advantage of it.
常有药贩子在贴吧或群里伪装成病友：“我的药吃不完，还有40g便宜出。
Traffickers often pretend to be sick in pubs or groups: "I can't eat all my medicine, and 40 grams are cheap."
”患者很难辨别，这40g是面粉还是过期药。
It is difficult for the patient to tell whether the 40g is flour or expired.
错过了正规就诊治疗，擅自使用替代药物，还会有加重病情。
Missing the regular medical treatment, unauthorized use of alternative drugs, there will be aggravation.
互助拿到“救命药”后，轰仔没能如预期那样靠着药物稳定好情绪。
After mutual help got the "life-saving medicine", the blockbuster did not rely on the drug as expected to stabilize good mood.
疫情日益严重，她捧着手机不断刷新消息，可坏消息实在太多了，一向关注时事的她哭着痛骂出声。
As the epidemic got worse, she kept updating the news with her mobile phone, but there was so much bad news that she cried and swore loudly as she followed current events.
尽管情绪状况不乐观，但轰仔坚持浏览这些信息：“不在乎一点也不酷，在乎才是真正需要勇气的事情。
Despite the mood swings, Rob insists on browsing the message: "It's not cool at all, it's what really takes courage.
”这是电影《超脱》中的台词，轰仔很喜欢。
"This is the line from the movie" Beyond the Thunder, "which Rob loved.
“想要活下去对我们这样的患者来说是很了不起的事”，轰仔说。
"It's a great thing for a patient like us to live," said Rob.
疫情期间，她看到一些艾滋病患者在网上求药，伴随而来的是质疑、误解、辱骂，轰仔感到无力。
During the outbreak, she saw some AIDS sufferers seeking medicine online, accompanied by questions, misunderstandings, insults and feelings of helplessness.
或许因为同病相怜，她对这些自救很有感触：“多一点人想活下去对我们来说就多一点希望”，轰仔心里有了一个小小的愿望——帮助像她一样被困在家里，面临断药风险的病友活下去。
Perhaps out of pity for her, she was struck by such self-help: "A little more to live is a little more hopeful for us," and Rob had a small desire to help sick people like her who are stuck at home, at risk of dying.
救助行动开始于在2月8日凌晨4点23分，一个轰仔失眠的夜晚，她重新注册了一个微博账号，分享她在疫情期间网上购买抑郁症药物的经验。
The rescue began at 4: 23 a.m. on Feb. 8, when she re-registered a Weibo account to share her experience buying depression drugs online during the epidemic.
第二天，热心网友发来自己整理的网上购药途径，轰仔核实后再次发博。
The next day, the warm-hearted netizens sent their own collation online drug purchase way, after the verification of blockbuster blogging.
她和朋友一起拜托微博大V帮忙转发扩散，这篇微博逐渐积累起了热度和关注。
She and her friends asked Weibo V to help spread the message, which gradually gained heat and attention.
轰仔一连回复了几百条评论，直至手臂乏力才肯停下。
Rob replied to hundreds of comments until his arm gave way.
一遍又一遍，她不厌其烦地为病友们讲解网上购药的途径和平台操作方法。
Over and over again, she went to great lengths to explain to her patients how to buy medicine online and how to operate it.
受到轰仔的影响，一些能够外出购药或因病情好转留有余药的病友，愿意自负邮费、免费赠药，和缺药的疫区病友一起共度难关。
Under the influence of booze, some patients who are able to go out to buy medicine or keep more medicine because their condition is better are willing to bear the cost of postage, give medicine free of charge, and share the difficulties with their sick friends in drug-deficient areas.
受访者供图| 病友从轰仔微博里知晓购药途径意外来得很快。
Respondents at AT & # # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
两天后，轰仔的微博遭人恶意举报封号，她和病友们沟通的渠道突然断了。
Two days later, Rob's microblog was maliciously reported and her communication with her sick friends suddenly broke down.
连日来的压力和此刻的委屈让轰仔喘不过气来，她将手机重重地反盖在桌面上，放声大哭。
Day after day of pressure and this moment of grievance let Boom gasp, she put her mobile phone heavy back on the table, crying loudly.
哭过之后，她想起了一名在武汉做志愿者的病友。
After crying, she remembered a sick friend who had volunteered in Wuhan.
他们共同组建了一个疫区精神类疾病互助微信群，专门帮助网络医疗平台无法配送的湖北地区病友。
Together, they have formed a group of mutual aid micro-credit groups for mental diseases in epidemic areas, specializing in helping sick people in Hubei who cannot be delivered on the network medical platform.
对一位湖北黄冈的病友来说，幸运来得比想象中快。
For a sick friend in Huanggang, Huanggang, luck came sooner than expected.
2月11日，他通过微博留言和私信联系上轰仔，进入了互助群。
On 11 February, he entered the support group by contacting him via microblog messages and personal letters.
黄冈是疫情重灾区，由于小区全面封锁，网络购药不配送，几位黄冈的病友面临着相同的断药困境。
Huanggang is a serious epidemic area, because of the comprehensive blockade of the community, network drug purchase does not distribute, several patients in Huanggang face the same drug-deprivation dilemma.
“我在重庆，我可以帮你买药。
"I'm in Chongqing and I can get you some medicine.
”2月16日下午，群里一位曾罹患抑郁症的群友主动提出，帮黄冈的病友异地购药并邮寄。
On the afternoon of February 16, a group of former depression friends offered to help Huang Gang buy medicine and mail it.
她表示家附近有很多家医院的药店，只需提供医生的处方单，便可以买到所需的药品。
She says there are many hospital pharmacies near her home and that all she needs is a doctor's prescription sheet.
互助群里有五十余人，一部分病友通过这样的方式拿到了急需的药物，还有一些同城匀药的病友，借助外卖跑腿解了燃眉之急。
There are more than 50 people in the support group, some of whom get much-needed medicine in this way, and some of their sick friends, who use take-out to run errands, meet their immediate needs.
截至目前，已有近百人向轰仔求助，她每天都关注着大家的需求，确认药物是否送达。
So far, nearly 100 people have turned to him for help, and she keeps an eye on everyone's needs every day to make sure the drugs are delivered.
为了保护病友隐私，她尽量少问话，积极提供各种求助途径。
In order to protect her patient's privacy, she minimizes questioning and actively provides various avenues of help.
不过，还是有很多病友不能拿到药，这让轰仔很失落。
However, there are still a lot of sick friends do not have access to medicine, which makes the rogue very frustrated.
有一些病友在乡下隔离，快递和外卖都进不去，轰仔只能看着他们绝望的求助干着急。
Some of his sick friends were isolated in the countryside, unable to get in express delivery or take-out, and Rob watched as they despaired of asking for help.
还有一些药物受到国家管制，线上不予售出，需要本人到医院亲自取药。
Others are under State control and are not sold online and require personal access to hospitals to collect them.
尽管已经拼尽全力，轰仔觉得自己的力量还是太有限了：“我也是这场疫情的受害者之一，我也只是个莫名其妙背负起社会责任的普通人。
Despite his best efforts, Rob felt that his strength was too limited: "I was one of the victims of the epidemic, and I was just an ordinary person with no sense of social responsibility.
”好在这场援助行动中，还有其他人在关注着抑郁症患者。
Fortunately, there are others watching for depression as part of the rescue effort.
在一个疫区互助群里，轰仔看到一位病友分享了自己的经历：“我的医生主动来问是不是缺药，已经安排助理给我们寄药了。
In a mutual aid group in an epidemic area, Rob saw one of his patients share his experiences: "My doctor came forward to ask if there was a shortage of medicine and arranged for an assistant to send us the medicine.
”求生隐藏在断药危机背后的，是不受控制冒出的自残、自杀念头。
Hidden behind the crisis is the uncontrolled emergence of self-harm and suicidal thoughts.
整个抑郁症患者群体，在关于疫情的信息环境影响下，一次次地重建内心。
The entire group of depression patients, in the information environment about the epidemic, time after time to rebuild their hearts.
一条医护人员被感染的新闻，就会让抑郁症患者产生了强烈的“幸存者内疚”心理。
News of a healthcare worker being infected creates a strong "guilt of the survivors" mentality among people suffering from depression.
“如果我能得肺炎就好了。
"If only I could get pneumonia.
”病友群里有人发言，引来了一些附和。
"There was a voice in the sick group, which drew some echoes.
对于健康的人来说，面对疫情的第一反应是保护好自己和家人。
For healthy people, the first response to an epidemic is to protect themselves and their families.
但抑郁症患者本就消极厌世，有的人会冒出这样念头：死于肺炎或许能想到的最“得体”的死亡方式，可以避免与自杀有关的社会舆论压力。
But depressed patients are already negative, some people will come up with the idea that death from pneumonia may be the most "appropriate" way to die, can avoid the social pressure associated with suicide.
即使不在眼下的特殊状况中，每年春节，当抑郁症患者回到原生家庭，与父母、长辈的接触，也会产生巨大的情绪波动。
Even if it is not in the current special circumstances, the annual Spring Festival, when depressed patients return to their original families, contact with parents, elders, will also produce tremendous emotional fluctuations.
湖北女孩颜雨是一名大三学生，已经计划过几次死亡。
Yan Yu, a Hubei girl, is a junior student and has planned several deaths.
她患有重度抑郁，回家过年对她来说本是一件别扭的事。
She suffered from severe depression, and coming home for the New Year was an awkward time for her.
颜雨的家是重组家庭，母亲和继父对她很关心，但到底还是有隔阂。
Yan Yu's family is a reorganization of the family, her mother and stepfather are very concerned about her, but there is still a gap.
还要走亲戚，这更加让颜雨感到痛苦。
Still have to go relative, this lets Yan Yu feel more painful.
平日里，抑郁症患者习惯于求助一、二线城市的精神医疗体系，返乡后，许多小乡镇的心理咨询服务尚未普及，干预不及时会致使病情加重。
On weekdays, depression patients used to turn to the first and second-tier city mental health system, after returning home, many small townships have not yet universal psychological counselling services, intervention will lead to the aggravation of the disease.
今年，被封闭在家中的日期无限延长，各种负面情绪以无法预知的方式点燃，朝他们涌去。
This year, the days of being confined to one's home have been extended indefinitely, with negative emotions igniting in unpredictable ways and rushing towards them.
1月中旬回家后，颜雨发现身为医生的继父每天加班。
Back home in mid-January, Yan Yu found that his stepfather, a doctor, worked overtime every day.
临近除夕，武汉封城，疫情加重，继父连回家的时间都没有了。
Near New Year's Eve, Wuhan sealed the city, the increase in the epidemic, stepfather did not even have time to go home.
家里只剩下她和母亲，一切又失去了平衡。
She and her mother were all that remained of the house, and everything was out of balance.
2月5日，母亲无意识地对颜雨说：“都这么久了，你怎么还没好呢？” 一直以来，母亲很理解颜雨的抑郁症，处处照顾女儿的情绪，但眼下同时担心着丈夫与女儿，让她难以支撑。
On Feb. 5, her mother unconsciously said to Yan Yu, "After all this time, why have you not recovered?" For a long time, her mother understood Yan Yu's depression and looked after her daughter, but now she was worried about her husband and daughter, making it difficult for her to support her.
傍晚，颜雨关起房门站在窗前，再一次想要纵身一跃。
In the evening, Yan Yu closed the door and stood in front of the window.
就在这个当口，母亲喊她吃饭，暂时扑灭了她自杀的念头，她不忍心让母亲担心。
At this point, her mother called her to eat, temporarily extinguished her thoughts of suicide, she could not bear to let her mother worry.
第二天，颜雨看到一个线上捐赠时间的活动，其中有位叫“任有病”的人捐赠了9小时，身份介绍上写着：“抑郁研究所所长，曾为上百抑郁症患者完成自杀干预。
The next day, Yan Yu saw an online donation of time. One of them, Ren Sick, donated nine hours of time. His profile said, "The director of the Institute of Depression Research has completed a suicide intervention for hundreds of depressed patients.
” “她一定是懂我的人。
'She must be someone who knows me.
”一个念头在颜雨脑袋里闪过。
An idea flashed through Yan Yu's head.
“任有病”的本名叫任可，是个26岁的创业者。
Ren Kang, 26, is a 26-year-old entrepreneur.
她曾经也是重度抑郁症患者，2018年末康复后，开了一家陪伴抑郁症患者的“抑郁研究所”，病友们都喊她“所长”。
Once a major depressive patient, she opened a "depression institute" to accompany depressed patients after her recovery in late 2018.
疫情发生以来，任可一直在线上平台直播讲解抑郁和心理学相关知识，只能匀出一部分时间来一对一心理援助。
Since the outbreak, Ren has been able to broadcast depression and psychology live on a live platform, freeing up only part of his time for one-on-one psychological assistance.
要获得捐赠者的时间，需要朋友助力点赞，颜雨把链接分享到朋友圈和QQ空间里，附上了一句话：“我想去见见这个所长，请大家救救孩子，谢谢你们。
To get donor time, need friends to help praise, Yan Yu shared the link with friends and QQ space, attached a sentence: "I would like to meet this director, please save the children, thank you.
”很快，有50多个人点了进去，给她留言打气。
"Pretty soon, more than 50 people signed up to cheer her up.
在朋友的帮助下，颜雨如愿获得了一次聊天的机会。
With the help of his friends, Yan Yu got a chance to chat.
通话的前半个小时，颜雨情绪很激动，频繁地提起自杀的想法。
During the first half hour of the conversation, Yan Yu was excited and frequently mentioned the idea of suicide.
在普通的心理咨询里，咨询师不会暴露自己的个人情况，但任可更希望这是一场朋友间的对话。
In normal counseling, the counselor doesn't reveal his or her personal circumstances, but Ren hopes it's a conversation between friends.
任可主动提起自己的抑郁经历，在她的诊断书上，写着“自杀行为9年”。
Ren can take the initiative to bring up her own depressive experience, and on her diagnosis it says, "Nine years of suicidal behavior."
“突然有一天，阳光照在我身上，我感觉好惬意，原来我又有了发现美好的能力。
"Suddenly one day, the sun shining on me, I feel so comfortable, I have found the beautiful ability.
”她想告诉颜雨，死亡不是什么甜蜜的解决方案。
She wanted to tell Yan Yu that death was not a sweet solution.
电话另一头，颜雨拿出了两张A4白纸，边听边记笔记。
At the other end of the phone, Yan Yu took out two A4 sheets of white paper and took notes while listening.
任可表扬她：“你能主动求助，是一个很有能量的女孩，你一定还有很多事想去做，只是暂时生病了而已。
Ren praised her: "You can take the initiative to help, is a very energetic girl, you must have a lot of things to do, just temporarily sick.
”虽然很多抑郁症患者想自杀，但他们仍然在为长期生活做准备。
Although many people with depression want to kill themselves, they are still preparing for a long-term life.
颜雨告诉任可，她有考研的计划，状态好的时候，她会坐下来复习。
Yan Yu told Ren Ke that she had plans to take the entrance examination, and when she was in good shape, she would sit down and review.
后来几天，颜雨常常在任可直播时参与互动，提醒她保护好嗓子。
In the days that followed, Yan Yu often interacted during the live broadcast, reminding her to protect her voice.
任可发现了抑郁症患者的求生欲：他们一边说着太累了、撑不下去、想离开，一边会想方设法来自救。
Ren can find the sustenance of depressed patients: they say too tired, can not sustain, want to leave, while trying to find ways to rescue.
对于这些在求死欲望与求生欲之间挣扎的抑郁症患者，任可觉得：“不是所有的自杀干预都需要说教和劝阻，有时候只是需要有人教他，怎么给自己放个假。
"Not all suicidal interventions require lecturing and dissuasion. Sometimes someone just needs to teach him how to give himself a break.
”在任可的微信里，有上百个抑郁症病友群。
There are hundreds of depressive patients in every letter in office.
最近，群里依然会出现刀片割手臂的照片。
Recently, images of razor blades cutting arms still appear in the group.
但在“不想活下去”的声音之外，一个女孩突然说：“等这次疫情过去了，我要好好活着。
But outside the "do not want to live" voice, a girl suddenly said: "When this epidemic is over, I want to live well.
”“让我们一起活到好事发生的那一天。
"" Let us live to the day when good things happen.
”任可把这句话写进了个性签名里。
"Ren wrote the sentence into his signature.
共情1月29日，湖北省确诊病例达3554例。
On January 29, 3,554 cases were diagnosed in Hubei province.
疫情加深的过程，抑郁症患者也出现了更多危险情境。
As the epidemic deepens, so do the more dangerous scenarios for people suffering from depression.
2月10日，任可刷朋友圈评论时，在一条评论旁停下来。
On February 10, Ren stopped by a comment as he was commenting from his circle of friends.
“所长，我们全家被隔离了，我每天晚上睡不着，我该怎么办？”留言的男生是群里一位叫李航的病友，同样身处疫区湖北。
"Director, our family has been isolated, I can not sleep every night, how should I do?" Message boy is a group of a sick friend called Li Hang, also in the epidemic area of Hubei.
看到“全家隔离”几个字，任可很担心李航的身体和心理状态，立马回复：我们聊一聊吧。
See "family isolation" a few words, can be very worried about the physical and psychological state of Li Hang, immediately reply: Let's talk about it.
语音通话里传来的声音很冷静，但任可还是感受到了对方的焦虑。
Voice calls from the voice is very calm, but can still feel the other side of the anxiety.
一开场，这个叫李航的男生就快速倾吐自己的处境。
As soon as the beginning, the boy named Li Hang quickly poured out his situation.
春节前，他和父母、爷爷奶奶因疑似感染被转移到了隔离区，一人住一个空房间。
Before the Spring Festival, he, his parents, grandparents were moved to the quarantine area because of a suspected infection, living alone in an empty room.
除了有人定时送饭和中药，医院医疗资源紧缺，一家人暂时无法进一步确诊和治疗。
In addition to regular meals and Chinese medicine, hospital medical resources are scarce, the family is temporarily unable to further diagnosis and treatment.
“我爷爷都快90岁了，隔离第一天还晕倒了，可我什么都做不了。
"My grandfather is nearly 90 years old, he fainted on the first day of isolation, and I couldn't do anything.
”24岁的李航一直在自责，怪自己没有提前为家人做好防护。
Li, 24, blamed himself for not protecting his family ahead of time.
现在住在同一栋楼里却见不了面，“我很害怕他们撑不下去。
Living in the same building now and not seeing each other, I'm afraid they won't make it.
”他常常在打开家庭群后，连一句关心的话都说不出口。
He often failed to say a word of concern after he had opened up his family.
李航将自己封闭起来，反复自我拷问，一场公共卫生事件引起的应激反应，正在让他的内心不断坍缩。
By shutting himself off and torturing himself again and again, the stress of a public health event was making his heart collapse.
没有一个声音告诉他，这不是他的错。
Not a sound told him it was not his fault.
“即便暂时无法见面，告诉家人你的担心，对他们来说也是一种支撑。
"Even if you can't see each other for a while, telling your family about your fears can be a support.
”任可劝说李航。
"Yen can persuade Li Hang.
她知道，在社会环境的压力下，很多男性不愿意表达“不开心”和无助，于是劝他：“如果你想哭，群里的病友们都在等你倾诉。
She knows that many men are unwilling to express their unhappiness and helplessness under the pressure of social circumstances, and advises, "If you feel like crying, the sick people in the group are waiting for you to talk.
”“其实，你最应该照顾的那个小朋友是你自己。
"" Actually, the little friend you should take care of the most is yourself.
”任可说。
"said Ren.
直到任可说出这句话，李航才愿意敞开心底脆弱的部分，谈论自己的状态。
It was not until Ren could say this that Li Hang was willing to open up the fragile part of his heart and talk about his state.
隔离十多天以来，他每天吃不下饭、睡不满3个小时。
Isolated for more than 10 days, he could not eat or sleep for less than three hours a day.
一躺下来，脑袋里就开始循环播放一件长久以来难以释怀的事情。
As soon as I lay down, I began to circulate in my head something that I had been unable to forget for a long time.
那是大一刚入学时，辅导员组织新生做心理测验。
It was when freshmen first started college, counselors organized freshmen to do psychological tests.
大家做完后就忘了这件事，直到一天下午，辅导员在年级QQ群直接喊出了一个女生的名字，“请速到心理咨询室来一趟。
After we finished, we forgot this matter, until one afternoon, counselor in grade QQ group directly called out a girl's name, "Please come to the psychological consultation room.
”后来，同学之间开始议论这件事，女生在整个大学里都背负着歧视和敌意。
Later, when the students started talking about it, the girls were burdened with discrimination and hostility throughout the university.
“我当时为什么不做点什么呢？”李航问任可。
"Why didn't I do something?" Li asked Ren Xing.
这件事和后来的疫情一样，置身其中，李航的敏感和无能为力，放大了他的痛苦。
This incident and the subsequent outbreak, in which Li Hang's sensitivity and impotence magnified his pain.
任可试着转移他的注意力，帮忙找一些他可以做的事情，“你看，现在你有充足的时间，去学习你感兴趣的心理学。
Ren tries to divert his attention and help find something he can do. "You see, now you have enough time to study psychology that interests you.
你想帮助更多人，可不能还没有被一个小小的肺炎打倒，就被抑郁症先打倒了。
You want to help more people, but can not be knocked down by a small pneumonia, depression first down.
”任可的话，给了在崩溃边缘的李航一块浮板。
Mr Ren gave a floating board to Li Hang on the verge of collapse.
“抑郁症患者特别能共情。
"Depression can be particularly empathetic.
”任可发现。
"You can find it.
大年初一开始，一些公益组织和互联网企业在线上开展了心理援助，为公众开放24小时咨询热线。
At the beginning of the Lunar New Year, some public welfare organizations and Internet enterprises launched psychological assistance online, opening a 24-hour consultation hotline for the public.
但病情严重的抑郁症患者反而不愿意拨打这通电话。
But seriously ill patients with depression are reluctant to make the call.
一种普遍的心态是：“疫区的人可能比我还痛苦，我不能因为一点心理问题就去占用公共资源。
A common mindset is: "People in affected areas can be more miserable than I am, and I can't take up public resources because of a little psychological problems."
”2月1日前后，疫情信息爆发式增加，抑郁症患者的第一反应是自我奉献。
On or around February 1, the number of outbreaks increased, and depression patients' first response was self-sacrifice.
“您是本平台第969966位志愿登记者。
"You are the 969966 volunteer registrant of this platform.
”一位病友在群里分享了中国人体器官捐献志愿登记卡。
A sick friend shared a voluntary registration card for donations of human organs from China in the group.
看到登记卡的人，可以扫描上面的二维码，进行捐献登记，捐献遗体、器官和眼角膜。
People who see a registration card can scan the two-dimensional code on it, register donations and donate bodies, organs and corneas.
像接力一样，陆续十几位病友扫码登记，任可也加入了他们。
Like a relay, more than a dozen sick friends sweep the code registration, Ren can also join them.
受访者供图|病友群里的志愿登记卡一些病友认为自己享受社会资源，却不能像医护人员去帮助别人，过度沉浸在愧疚感中。
Voluntary Registration Cards at AT & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Some patients
于是，他们会自发捐赠器官，把这件事形容成“购买赎罪券”。
As a result, they donate organs spontaneously, describing the event as "buying a ransom."
想着当下做不了任何事，但如果有一天离开了，自己的身体器官可以救人，遗体可以成为大体老师，为医学做贡献，群友们的心理就能获得一定补偿。
Think of the present can not do anything, but if one day left, their body organs can save people, the body can become a gross teacher, to contribute to medicine, the group of friends can be a certain psychological compensation.
“我们就隔着几个号呢，到时候说不定我就在你隔壁第三个床位。
"We'll be a few yards apart, and maybe I'll be in your third bed next door.
”另一位群友说。
"said the other.
病友经常像这样开玩笑，任可觉得他们可爱又让人心疼。
Patients often like this joke, can feel that they are cute and heartbreaking.
*文中颜雨、李航为化名撰文| 成琨 李仪编辑 | 温丽虹。
* Yan Yu and Li Hang as pseudonyms. & quot; Cheng Jade Li Yi Editing & # 44; Wenlihong.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
重度抑郁症患者断药后。
Patients with severe depression after withdrawal of medication.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "重度抑郁症患者断药后";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; with severe depression at & quot; after service.
var msg_desc = "想死，以及比死更酷的事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; wanting to die, and something cooler than dying.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
