等待返工的人：有人实在不想在家哄孩子了丨图集。
Waiting for rework: Someone really doesn't want to coax a child into a book at home.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：疫情以来，企业复工日期一再调整，何时能回到办公室成为人们最关心的事情之一。
Abstract: Since the epidemic, the date of resumption of work has been adjusted time and time again, when to return to the office has become one of the most important concerns.
2月10日以来，人们陆续回到岗位，有的经历旅途波折，有人面临待业裁员。
Since 10 February, people have continued to return to their posts, some in difficult travel situations and others facing layoffs.
经过这个漫长的假期，人们有种恍若隔世的感觉。
After this long holiday, people have a feeling of strangeness.
不管怎样，返岗上班或许是生活回到正轨的标志。
Going back to work, however, may be a sign that life is back on track.
Play文｜王一然图、视频｜吕萌（除署名外）编辑｜王珊 林鹏返岗很难想象，“能正常上班”有一天会成为奢侈的愿望，至少红酒线上运营专员林康这样觉得。
+ + + + + it is hard to imagine that being able to get to work normally will one day become a luxury, at least not so much for Lin Kang, the wine-line operator.
他在北方一家红酒连锁公司上班，是国家二级品酒师。
He works for a wine chain in the north and is a national wine taster.
2月初，他就在家忙碌，准备推出一款情人节礼盒：两支酒，一红一白，特意选了带有丘比特LOGO的酒庄。
At the beginning of February, he was busy at home, ready to launch a Valentine's Day gift box: two bottles of wine, one red and one white, deliberately chosen with Cupid LOGO winery.
只待复工第一天返岗，林康就可以去公司，和销售们对接。
Just waiting for the first day of work to return to work, Lin Kang can go to the company, and sales docking.
这笔绩效提成能满足他2月的愿望：买个好用的电推子，还想买台电钢琴学电子音乐编曲。
The commission would satisfy his February desire to buy an easy-to-use electric pusher and an electric piano to compose music.
受疫情影响，在多个省市的复工通知中，2月10日成了许多人返岗上班的第一天。
As a result of the epidemic, February 10 became the first day of many people returning to work in several provinces and municipalities.
经过一个空前漫长的假期，对很多人来说，这或许是生活回到正轨的标志。
After an all-time long vacation, it may be a sign for many that life is back on track.
2020年2月19日，朝阳区首创·郎园Vintage复工，企业员工正在办公区内办公。
On 19 February 2020, Vintage Park, the first of its kind in the Chaoyang district, was reactivated and its employees were working in the office complex.
图片来自：东方IC上市公司的中层领导田真已经被在家办公折磨得“苦不堪言”，每天早上9点到晚上6点半，除了在钉钉上打卡之外，也要按照平时上班要求：正装、领带和得体的发型——小区附近没有理发店开门，田真只能让妻子照着抖音视频给自己理发，“前边就跟狗啃过一样”。
Tian Zhen, the middle-level leader of Orient IC, has been tormented from his office at 9: 00 a.m. to 6: 30 p.m. Every day, despite pins and pins, he goes to work as usual: no hairdresser, no hairdresser in the neighborhood, only his wife can get her hair cut by shaking a video.
大小会议都需要视频沟通，几天之后，田真找到了偷懒的办法，他刮了胡子，行头整齐，但镜头照不到的下身只穿了一条大裤衩。
Both meetings and conferences required video communication, and days later Tian found a way to be lazy. He shaved and dressed neatly, but could not see through the lens except for a pair of big panties.
“北漂”多年的河北人吴天也想尽快返岗，“实在不想哄孩子了！”他在一家教育机构工作，平日早出晚归。
"North drift" many years of Hebei Wu Tian also want to return to work as soon as possible, "really do not want to coax children!"
最初假期延长时，他特别高兴，“终于能多陪陪儿子了。
When the initial vacation was extended, he was particularly pleased. "At last he was able to stay with his son.
”到了2月3日，复工又推迟一周，儿子幼儿园没开学，每天闹着出去，吴天和妻子轮番上阵安抚，家里玩具玩了个遍，也消磨不了一个6岁男孩想去上游泳课的热情。
By February 3, work had been delayed for another week and the kindergarten was not open, with Wu and his wife going out every day. Wu and his wife played around with their toys and couldn't efface a six-year-old boy's enthusiasm for swimming lessons.
2020年2月16日，北京地铁10号线上戴口罩的乘客。
Passengers wearing masks on Line 10 of the Beijing subway on February 16, 2020.
比吴天还着急的是90后创业者祁莫，他是武汉人，小公司紧邻华南海鲜市场。
Worried than Wu Tian is 90 is the post-entrepreneur Qi Mo, he is Wuhan, small company next to the South China seafood market.
武汉“封城”后，“出小区都费劲，项目也黄了几个，工人们也回不来。
Wuhan "closed the city", "out of the community are struggling, a few yellow projects, workers can not return.
”济南一家实体企业总经理王含几乎数着日子过，他住的小区就有确诊病例，全封闭管理，眼看公司开工，部分员工都陆续返岗，王含只能“遥控指挥”，“需要签字的文件攒了一摞。
Wang Han, general manager of an entity company in Jinan, has been living in a small area with confirmed cases that have been closed to management. As the company starts work and some employees return to work, Wang can only "command by remote control" and "need to sign a pile of documents.
”2月10日一早，26岁的设计师许娜戴着蓝色一次性口罩，站在中关村苏州街附近的写字楼前，年前公司年会后，也是站在这儿，她和同事约好“回来吃老金的涮羊肉”，但回来的同事不到一半，“有种恍若隔世的感觉。
Earlier this morning, 26-year-old designer Xu Na, wearing a blue disposable mask, stood in front of an office building near Suzhou Street in Zhongguancun, where she stood after the company's annual meeting with colleagues to "come back for a shabu shabu shabu.
”2020年2月16日，北京国贸桥下的外卖员。
"February 16, 2020, under the Beijing International Trade Bridge takeaway.
一上午，许娜被测了4次体温。
All morning, Xu Na had her temperature taken four times.
小区门口保安24小时严阵以待，出入凭条；写字楼物业门岗处，公司名称和楼层都要核对，电梯里弥散着浓重的消毒水味，许娜隔着纸巾按键，后勤人员就隔两个小时一次，到她工位上测量体温。
The entrance to the security 24 hours, access to the slip; office property gate, the name of the company and floor to check, the elevator scattered a heavy smell of disinfectant, Xu Na across the napkin button, logisticians every two hours, to her workstation to take temperature.
口罩和小瓶消毒液取代了平时包里的补妆用品，“就露俩眼睛，脸都可以不洗了。
Masks and small bottles of disinfectant replace the usual toiletries in your bag. "Just show your eyes and face won't wash.
”来公司值班的人只有几个，坐她对面的同事敲了敲桌子，晃了晃手机，微信对话框里发来问候：“年怎么过的？中午去哪吃饭？”没许娜那么幸运，杨丽卡在了写字楼门口。
There were only a few people on duty at the office. Her colleague, who sat opposite her, knocked on the table, shook her cell phone, and sent greetings in the microphone box, "How did you spend your day? Where did you go for lunch?"
她和三个同事顺路拼车一起去公司，写字楼在天津和平区CBD中心区域，到了门岗处，保安看着体温枪惊问：“你们怎么全都高烧？”“可能是车上的空调！”折腾了20多分钟，重新再测几次，体温都正常，才被放上楼。
She and three colleagues carpool to the company, office buildings in Tianjin Zone of Peace CBD center area, to the door, the security guard looked at the temperature gun and asked: "Why do you all have a fever?" "Maybe the car air conditioning!"
第二天，有员工家附近的小区发现确诊病例，公司领导决定继续在家办公。
The next day, a confirmed case was found in a small area near the employee's home, and the company leader decided to stay at home.
2020年2月17日，北京海淀区紫光大厦外，安保人员检查来访者的个人信息。
On February 17, 2020, outside the Ziguang Building in Haidian District, Beijing, security personnel check visitors' personal information.
林康已经线上办公了一周。
Lin Kang has been working online for a week.
公司要求每天写工作日志，但线下销售基本没有工作可做，尤其是负责餐饮酒店等大客户的业务员，一天下来，一个业务员的日志就憋出两条：1.今天去了客户公司，没开门。
The company requires a daily logbook, but there are few jobs available for offline sales, especially for sales staff in charge of large customers such as restaurants and hotels.
2.等待群里分派任务。
2. Waiting groups for assignments.
第二天的日志几乎雷同：1.今天去了客户公司，又没开门。
I went to the client company today and didn't open the door.
2.等待群里分派任务。
2. Waiting groups for assignments.
2月10日复工这天早上，林康醒来准备上班，头发之前就拿给猫剃毛的推子推得利索干练，“防毒面罩”也准备好了。
The morning after he returned to work on February 10, Lin Kang woke up to work, had his hair shaved before the cat pushed the hair-shaving pushers skilfully, and the "gas mask" was ready.
但拿起手机时，他发现人力在群里发了一条消息，那是一条几乎针对全员的“待岗通知”：复工日期待定，复工之前工资只支付当地最低工资标准的70%。
But when he picked up the phone, he found that a message had been posted in the group, almost aimed at the entire staff: the date of return to work was to be determined and wages were paid only 70 per cent of the local minimum wage before returning to work.
2020年2月17日，北京市海淀区后厂村，多家互联网公司已复工，图为戴口罩交流的园区工作人员。
February 17, 2020, Haidan District, Beijing, a number of Internet companies have resumed work, picture for the park staff wearing masks exchange.
再这么下去可能要被开除了待岗之后，人力要求每个人写一份今年的工作计划。
After further layoffs, the workforce asked everyone to write a work plan for the year.
林康在家里闷着，没什么思路，戴着“防毒面具”下去扔垃圾，想透透气。
Lin Kang in the home stuffy, no way of thinking, wearing a "gas mask" to throw garbage, want to breathe.
这是前两年雾霾时，林康买来的防护品，当时觉得“有些小题大做”，疫情之后，口罩脱销，面具派上了用场。
Lin Kang bought the mask two years ago when he felt "a little fussy". After the outbreak, the mask went out of business and came into use.
“情人节计划”付诸东流，林康看着已经做好的海报，有些失落，晚上和恋人视频时，他怕对方担心：“我存款还能撑俩月呢。
"Valentine's Day went down the drain. Lin Kang looked at the posters he had already put up, lost some of them, and at night he was afraid of his partner's fears:" I have two months left in my savings.
”林康已经跟恋人异地快一个月了。
"Lin Kang has been living with her lover for almost a month.
恋人从事建筑工程，原计划2月3日从沈阳回北京，票定了几次，但公司防护用品不足，工地也无法开工，只能退票。
Lovers engaged in construction projects, originally planned from Shenyang back to Beijing on February 3, a few times, but the company is not enough protective supplies, the site can not start, can only refund tickets.
疫情扩大后，为雾霾天准备的口罩成了很多上班族的“救命稻草”。
As the epidemic spread, masks prepared for the haze became a "lifesaver" for many workers.
为了安全，有的上班族每天都会用消毒液擦拭地面。
For safety, some office workers clean the floor with disinfectant every day.
也有人一出门就被繁复的证明和公章“劝退”。
Some people go out on the complex proof and official seal "persuade to retreat."
广西男生张明家在南宁，公司和小区城区相邻，小区实行封闭管理后，返工人员需要提供企业复工批文复印件；之后到社区办理居住证明，再到医院体检办理健康证明；手续齐全后回到社区填写通行证申请表，再由居委会和卫健委审核盖章，写个人承诺书后，才能由城区政府审核发出入通行证。
Guangxi male students Zhang Mingjia in Nanning, the company and the neighborhood area adjacent to the rework area after the implementation of closed management, after the re-workers to the community for residence certificates, and then go back to the community to complete a laissez-passer application form, the neighborhood committee and health care committee review and seal, write a personal commitment before the city government audit and issue entry pass.
折腾了一圈，最终还是失败了，社区回复他，公司属于个体户经营，不在复工范围内。
Toss a circle, eventually failed, the community responded to him, the company is self-employed, not in the scope of the resumption of work.
2020年2月20日，在中通快递山西转运中心，复工人员开始投入工作中。
On February 20, 2020, workers started working at the Shanxi Transit Center of China Express.
中通快递山西省管理中心在做好疫情防控消杀的情况下，鼓励员工分批返岗复工。
Zhongtong Express Shanxi Province Management Center in the case of good disease prevention and elimination, employees are encouraged to return to work in batches.
图片来自：东方IC温州市永嘉县的周裳或许比他更焦急。
Photo from: Oriental IC Wenzhou Yongjia County Zhou clothes may be more anxious than he.
他家所在的桥头镇有一人确诊，村里严防死守，封闭管理，无法出行。
His home in the town of Qiaotou a diagnosis, the village strictly guarded, closed management, unable to travel.
同事们10号之后已经陆续上班，周裳成为唯一一个在家办公的运营专员。
Co-workers have been working since the 10th, Zhou clothing has become the only home-based operation of the Commissioner.
为了证明自己和大家一样，没有在家偷懒，他连吃饭都要发电脑在旁边的照片，“比去上班还累”。
To prove that he was not lazy at home, like everyone else, he even sent out pictures of his computer at the side of the meal, "harder than going to work."
他担心，“再这么下去可能要被开除了。
He worried that if things went on like this, he might get fired.
”企业的复工之路也没那么容易。
Nor is it easy for companies to get back to work.
钱娟是一家中小型企业老板，除夕开始就在各大电商平台上为员工们采购口罩和消毒用品，最后只买到两包一次性口罩和几瓶84消毒液，她又开始联系微商。
Qianjuan is a small and medium-sized enterprise owner, New Year's Eve in the major electric business platform for staff to purchase masks and disinfection supplies, only to buy two bags of disposable masks and a few bottles of 84 disinfectant, she began to contact micro-business.
“防护不到位，根本不敢让大家冒险，我们不开工，每月硬性支出的亏损差不多30万。
"The defenses are not in place, we don't dare to put people at risk, we don't start work, we lose almost 300,000 dollars in hard expenses every month.
”某国企公司的盈利部门全是劳动密集型产业，人力资源部工作人员许佳说，采购的防护品，至今还有一万个口罩没有发货，工厂现在根本不敢复工。
The profit-making arm of a state-owned company is labour-intensive, says Xu Jia, a human-resources worker.
“我们分公司今年盈利目标是8000万，那么到现在也就剩10个多月了，完不成绩效也全要受影响。
"Our branch's profit target for this year is 80 million, then there will be more than 10 months left, not to complete the performance will also be affected.
”北京一家防护服生产厂从大年初四开始就进入复工状态。
A protective clothing factory in Beijing has been back to work since late Thursday.
图为2020年2月11日，生产车间一名员工正在对防护服进行检验。
Photo shows a production workshop employee inspecting protective clothing on February 11, 2020.
2020年2月11日，防护服缝纫生产线的工人正在加紧生产。
On 11 February 2020, workers in the sewing line of protective clothing are stepping up production.
压力之下，很多企业没能熬到春天。
Under pressure, many businesses did not survive into spring.
2月10日，“新潮传媒集团宣布裁员500人”的消息刷屏。
Feb. 10, the "trendy media group announced 500 layoffs" news screen.
林康公司的线下门店已经关了20多天，1月工资发不出来，员工们在群里“讨薪”，财务安慰：“大家再等等。
The company's offline store has been closed for more than 20 days, with no pay for January, and employees are begging for pay in the group, financial comfort: "Wait.
”等到后来，公司的销售员和实习生陆续接到了辞退电话。
"Later, the company's salesmen and interns continued to receive layoff calls.
公司把员工大体分成了四拨人：第一批是公司物业、水电，轮班值岗时正常发工资，其他时候算请假，没有工资；第二组是林康这些负责线上业务的员工，从2月10日开始一直到复工之前，只发当地最低工资标准的70%，大概一千多块；第三类是在外地无法按时返工的线上业务人员，复工前没有任何薪资；第四种是被解聘的员工，大多是实习生和没有正式合同、靠业务提成的销售们。
The company has roughly four groups of employees: the first is company property, utilities, regular pay when on duty, and others without pay. The second is composed of 70% of the local minimum wage, or more than 1,000, from February 10 until they return to work. The third category consists of laid-off employees, mostly interns and sales staff without formal contracts and business commissions.
由于这些员工没有劳动合同保障，只能交接工作等待当月的工资结算。
Because these employees do not have labor contract security, can only hand over the work waiting for the current month's salary settlement.
2020年2月19日，辽宁沈阳，一家复工的公司，工人正在食堂吃午餐。
February 19, 2020, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, a company, workers are eating lunch in the canteen.
图片来自：东方IC生机与转机一周过去，2月17日，复工的第二个星期一，更多人陆续回到工位。
2007-9-25 21: 48 More people are returning to work on February 17, the second Monday after the start of the week.
早上8点多，北京上品折扣商厦整层底商就被纵列长队遮住，返工的人们戴着口罩，排了一百多米，在寒风里等待登记测量体温；一家互联网公司的中层领导一上午被测了7次体温，同事喝咖啡时摘了口罩，也就一分钟，就被物业逮个正着，行政人员在全员邮件里提醒，“疫情期间戴口罩是一种礼仪！”对林康来说，这个星期一依然失业。
At 8 a. m., the whole floor quotient of Beijing's shopping malls is hidden by long lines, reworked people in masks, queuing up for more than a hundred meters in the cold, and an internet company's mid-level leader took his temperature seven times a morning and colleagues took off their masks in a minute.
2月3日那一周，他还卖出过一次几万的大单，其中有支两万多的拉菲，“有钱人的心思捉摸不透，这时候还买酒是给家里消毒吗？”接到“待岗通知”后，订单彻底为零，他只能在家做今年的“工作计划”PPT。
During the week of Feb. 3, he sold tens of thousands of tickets, including more than 20, 000 Raphael, "Is it possible that rich people, obsessed with the idea, are buying wine to disinfect their homes?"
自2月3日回京后，后厂村某家互联网公司的员工一直在家办公至今。
Since returning to Beijing on February 3, employees of an Internet company in Houchangcun have been working from home to date.
线上工作并不比坐班轻松，几乎24小时在线，周末也要工作。
Online work is no easier than sitting on the job, almost 24 hours online and working on weekends.
复工日期不断推后，在家办公的人除了忙工作，大多还要自己做饭、洗碗，有人开始怀念离开家，去公司正常上班的日子，“有点想念公司的食堂了。
Back to work, people working from home, in addition to busy work, most have to do their own cooking, washing dishes, some people began to miss leaving home, to the company's normal work day, "a little miss the company canteen.
”他本来打算下半年左右就辞职，和朋友一起创业，做游戏相关的社交平台。
He had planned to quit around the second half of the year to start a business with friends and build a social network around games.
但自己的公司无法复工，基本工资都没法保障外，朋友那边的项目计划也都搁置，一切又迷茫起来。
But his company can not resume work, basic wages are not guaranteed, friends on the side of the project plans have been put on hold, everything confused.
林康一米七多，体重已经超过200斤，患有糖尿病。
Lin Kang is more than one meter and weighs more than 200 jin and suffers from diabetes.
恋人在沈阳，2月初得了感冒，不敢去医院，林康每晚鼓励他：“我们离病毒还很远。
Lovers in Shenyang, early February caught a cold, dare not go to the hospital, Lin Kang encouraged him every night: "We are far from the virus.
”但在家待岗的第三天，林康得知，一位糖尿病病友因新冠肺炎去世，“人一下没了，那时候特别害怕，觉得疫情和每个人都息息相关。
But on the third day of his stay at home, Lin Kang learned that a diabetic had died of pneumonia. "The man was gone.
”那之后林康彻底投入直播，每天一醒来就打开摄像头，一个星期赚了一百多块钱。
After that, Lin went live and woke up every day with the camera on, earning more than a hundred dollars a week.
直播内容以日常生活为主，画画、跳热门抖音舞、打游戏、听歌、在床上打滚儿，还“掌握了各种新技能”：第一次自己做饭，可乐鸡翅和蜜汁鸡翅，“算俩菜吧？”除了刷新闻、玩游戏，绘画、厨艺这些平日里无瑕顾及的爱好被很多人重拾。
Daily life is the main focus, painting, dancing hot chatter, playing games, listening to music, rolling in bed, and "mastering new skills": the first time cooking your own food, cola chicken wings and honeywings, "Let's count the dishes?"
无事可干时，盯着家里的静物发呆，成了疫情中很多人的一种常态。
When there is nothing to do, staring at the static objects at home, has become a normal situation for many people in the epidemic.
有时林康半天不动，粉丝问他“在播什么？”“直播发呆啊。
Sometimes Lin Kang did not move for half a day, fans asked him "what is broadcast?" "live daze ah.
”林康说，“很多人在家没事干，你干什么都有人看。
"Lots of people don't work at home, and people watch everything you do," he said.
”经过漫长的等待，义乌国际商贸城终于开市，横店影视城也已宣布剧组将分阶段复工，海底捞恢复了外送服务，北京29家美容美发店已经营业，但要求理发师没事别和顾客聊天。
After a long wait, Yiwu International Trade City finally opened, Hengdian Film and Television City announced that the crew would resume work in stages, sea floor fishing resumed, 29 beauty salons in Beijing were open, but barbers were asked not to talk to customers.
一家卖饺子馄饨的门店窗口试开业一上午，来买的人们都戴着口罩，隔出一两个人的距离，有个顾客小心翼翼地问师傅：“剁馅儿时候戴口罩了吗？”截止到2月17日，北京CBD功能区内，已有约5万家企业陆续复工，占企业总数九成以上；广州天河区商务楼宇复工复产几乎百分之百。
A restaurant selling dumpling wonton opened its doors early in the morning, wearing masks, and a customer asked his teacher carefully, "Did you wear a mask when cutting into the strudgery?" As of February 17, about 50,000 enterprises, or more than 90% of the enterprises, had resumed work in the CBD functional area of Guangzhou.
从天津返工的工程师李显在北苑租房，怕高速封路，正月十五之前就赶回来。
From Tianjin rework engineer Li Xian renting in Bei Yuan, afraid of high-speed road closure, before the 15th day of January back.
车行一路畅通无阻，李显盯着窗外，大街上人影稀疏，车流锐减，以往后备箱里是吃的，今年都是能凑得到的消毒防护用品。
The road was clear, Li looked out of the window, the streets were sparse, traffic was dwindling, food used to be in the trunk, and sterile supplies were available this year.
李显把车停好，在楼下歇了会儿。
Li Xiang pulled in and rested downstairs for a while.
“那时候突然很想那个拥堵的、特别有人气儿的北京。
"I was looking forward to the congested, very angry Beijing all of a sudden.
”期待早日复工的互联网员工。
"Internet workers looking forward to an early resumption of work.
（为保护隐私，文中人物为化名）后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
(To protect privacy, include & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
等待返工的人：有人实在不想在家哄孩子了丨图集。
Waiting for rework: Someone really doesn't want to coax a child into a book at home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "等待返工的人：有人实在不想在家哄孩子了丨图集";。
var msg _ title = & quot; waiting to be reworked: Someone really didn't want to kid at home.
var msg_desc = "“那时候突然很想那个拥堵的、特别有人气儿的北京。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Suddenly I wanted to see that congested, very angry Beijing.
”";。
";;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
