当穷孩子也开始上网课。
When poor kids start taking classes online too.
张舒婷 郑婷。
Zhang Shu Ting Cheng Ting.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
疫情期间，在清北网校与福州鼓楼小学开发的“空中课堂”，挤进了超过7万名学生。
During the outbreak, more than 70,000 students were crowded into an "air class" developed at the Tsinghua and Fuzhou Gulou primary schools.
其中除了沿海城市的孩子，还有来自甘肃岷县、陕西延安杨家岭等贫困山区的8000名孩子。
In addition to children in coastal cities, there are also from Gansu Minxian, Shaanxi Yenan Yang Jialing and other poor mountain children.
地隔南北、贫富不一的孩子们，在一个偶然契机中，坐在了“同一间教室”。
North and South, rich and poor children, in an accidental opportunity, sat in the "same classroom."
故事时间：2020年故事地点：福州、岷县、杨家岭等70000名小学生挤进一堂课是什么情形？这些小孩的家乡相隔2000公里，从东南沿海跨越到西北内陆，黄土高原的延安杨家岭还是一片冬日肃杀，而在海边的福州市鼓楼区已有初春的暖意。
2007-9-25 10: 48 What happens when 70,000 schoolchildren in Fuzhou, Minxian and Yangjialing squeeze into one class The children's home towns are 2,000 kilometers apart, stretching from the southeast to the northwest, and Yenan Yangjialing on the Loess Plateau is still cold and wintry.
在疫情期间开始的中小学网课，让这些天各一方的孩子坐进了“一间教室”。
Cyber classes at primary and secondary schools, which began during the epidemic, brought children from each of these days into a "classroom."
这样的课堂，在清北网校系统已经运行了近两个星期。
Such classes have been running for nearly two weeks in the network school system in Qingbei province.
2月初开始，全国各地中小学校为了兼顾防疫与教学，纷纷开启线上网课。
Beginning in early February, primary and secondary schools across the country began to open online classes in order to take care of epidemic prevention and teaching.
在福州核心的鼓楼区，教育部门特地选拔出152名教师，通过字节跳动旗下的清北网校直播系统，共建“空中课堂”。
In the Drum Tower area in the heart of Fuzhou, the education department specially selected 152 teachers, through the byte beat of the network broadcast system, a total of "air class."
参与在家学习的除了鼓楼区的近7万名小学生，还有鼓楼区定点帮扶学校的学生，来自甘肃、陕西等偏远山区的8000名孩子。
Besides nearly 70,000 primary school students in Gulou district, 8,000 children from remote mountainous areas such as Gansu Province and Shaanxi Province have participated in home-based learning.
一根网线，意外地拉平了地域与经济状况带来的教育差距。
A net line, the geographical and economic situation brought about by the education gap.
可是，只有身在其中的参与者才知道疫情期间的网课教育，带来的真实冲击和改变。
However, only the participants in it know about the real impact and change of online education during the epidemic.
与发达地区联网的“空中课堂”，让甘肃岷县东照小学的语文老师裴美玲完成了一次家访。
"Classrooms in the Air" networked with developed regions enabled Pei Mei-ling, a Chinese teacher at Dongzhao Primary School in Minxian, Gansu, to complete a home visit.
甘肃省岷县是一个农民工大县，东照小学超过一半的孩子都是留守儿童，平时父母不在家，老师们很难掌握孩子的具体家庭情况。
More than half of the children in Dongzhao Primary School are left behind. Usually their parents are not at home, and it is difficult for teachers to grasp the children's specific family situation.
孩子要上网课，尚未外出的父母的手机就派上了用场。
Children to online classes, not yet out of the parents of the mobile phone came in handy.
第一天网课结束，裴美玲在班级群里查收家长们发来的“学习打卡”照片。
After the first day of Internet class, Pei Mei-ling was in the class group checking photos of "learning to punch a card" from parents.
她发觉这些照片普遍光线暗淡、像素模糊，大小只有几十KB。
She found the photos to be generally dim, pixel-blurred, and only a few dozen KB in size.
在线学习的孩子们缩着身子，挤进桌椅的缝隙，家中桌面堆满杂物。
Kids studying online huddle into crevices in desks and chairs, their desks piled high with clutter.
有的孩子没有书桌，只得撑在床上学习。
Some children do not have desks and have to stay in bed to study.
图 |甘肃岷县东照小学学生在听直播课裴美玲注意到，37个同学中，只有一个是对着电脑，余下的都是使用手机，因为家里没有大屏幕的设备。
Pickei Meiling, a student at Dongzhao Primary School in Minxian, Gansu, who attended a live broadcast class, noticed that only one of the 37 students was facing a computer. The rest were mobile phones because there was no large-screen device at home.
裴美玲所在的甘肃岷县东照小学，是福州市鼓楼区定点帮扶学校。
Pei Mei-ling's Gansu Minxian Dongzhao Primary School is the fixed-point support school in Gulou District, Fuzhou City.
过年后，听说要与发达地区的学校联网上网课，裴美玲松了一口气。
After the Chinese New Year, Pei Mei-ling heaved a sigh of relief when he heard about networking classes with schools in developed areas.
不同于城市孩子业余时间被培训班占满，岷县经济贫困，家长对孩子教育的重视程度不高。
Unlike the urban children's spare time occupied by training courses, Minxian economic poverty, parents do not pay enough attention to the education of their children.
延期开学，裴美玲一直担心在乡下的学生们“无事可做”。
Postponing the start of the school year, Pei had been worried that students in the countryside had "nothing to do."
“空中课堂”的网课，为孩子们开辟出新的学习渠道，接到通知后，裴美玲马上就在微信群里通知家长这个消息。
"Classroom in the Air" classes opened up new avenues for children to learn, and immediately after receiving notice, Pei Mei-ling informed her parents of the news in a microphone group.
微信群是5年前开始建立起来的，东照小学多数家长进城打工，人在外地，很多学生的爸爸妈妈、爷爷奶奶都在群里，才能确保消息通知到位。
Most parents in Dongzhao Primary School go to work in the city. Many students' parents, grandparents and grandparents are in the group to make sure the message is in place.
为了发挥网课的效率，裴美玲更多承担助教的职责。
In order to play the efficiency of the network lessons, Pei Meiling more assumed the duties of teaching assistant.
每次通知直播课信息，裴美玲发完文字通知后，都会用语音再读一遍。
Each time notice live class information, Pei Mei-ling after the text notice, will be re-read in phonetic.
此前，有位家长说“老师我不识字，你说一下”，裴美玲就养成了这个习惯。
Earlier, a parent said, "Teacher I can't read, you say", Pei Mei-ling formed this habit.
当裴美玲借助网课进行家访，在延安杨家岭福州希望小学任教的冯海艳也焦灼着盯着手机，帮着孩子和家长答疑。
When Pei Mei-ling visits home with the help of online classes, Feng Haiyan, who teaches at Fuzhou Hope Primary School in Yanan Yangjialing, also stares anxiously at the mobile phone, helping children and parents answer questions.
冯海艳曾去过福州市鼓楼第二中心小学进行交流，对两地学校的差别感受很深。
Feng Haiyan has been to the second central primary school in Gulou, Fuzhou City for exchanges, the difference between the two schools feel deep.
鼓楼二小每间教室都有钢琴，而杨家岭福州希望小学在几年前才普及了电子白板，硬件设施差距大。
Drum Tower two small each classroom has piano, and Yangjialing Fuzhou hope that a few years ago only universal electronic whiteboard, the gap between the hardware facilities.
冯海艳记得，她刚到希望小学那会，上公开课时没有多媒体设备，只能提前将重点写在纸上，讲课时再往黑板上贴，相当于PPT。
Feng Hai Yan remembers that when she first arrived at Hope Primary School, she didn't have multimedia equipment when she went to the public class. She had to put emphasis on the paper in advance and put it on the blackboard when lecturing.
由于学校师资不足，她作为英语老师，还同时教过音乐、美术。
Due to the shortage of teachers in the school, she also taught music and art as an English teacher.
在海边的“鼓楼区”对杨家岭的学生们而言是遥远的。
"Drum blocks" on the seaside are remote for Yang Jialing's students.
冯海艳曾让同学们用“旅行”造句，例句的目的地有伦敦、埃及，而许多同学的答案是他们的老家乡镇，那就是他们去过最远的地方。
Feng Haiyan had asked his classmates to travel to London and Egypt, but many students answered that their hometown town was the farthest place they had ever been.
执教20年，冯海艳还是头一次接触网课。
20 years of teaching, Feng Hai Yan is the first contact network class.
带着新奇，直播课开课那天，她早早打开了网页等待。
With novelty, she opened the webpage early on the day the class began.
9点，鼓楼区的老师出现在了屏幕上，冯海艳看向左上角，同时观看的人数定格在一万六千多。
At 9: 00, the drum-block teacher appeared on the screen, Feng Haiyan looked to the upper left corner, while watching the number of people fixed at more than 16, 000.
在这间无形教室里，延安地区的学生和沿海城市的学生，因为一块屏幕，链接在了一起。
In this invisible classroom, students in Yenan area and students in coastal cities, because of a screen, are linked together.
直播授课让乡村教师冯海艳感到惊喜，她觉得这对乡村孩子们是一个契机，将会“开阔孩子们的眼界”。
The live lecture surprised country teacher Feng Haiyan, who felt it was an opportunity for country children to "broaden their horizons."
今年春节，福州市鼓楼实验小学的肖明娟老师第一次没回娘家。
This Spring Festival, the Fuzhou Gulou Experimental Primary School Xiao Mingjuan teacher did not return home for the first time.
接到担任“空中课堂”直播老师的任务，她感到紧张。
She felt nervous at the task of being a live air-classroom teacher.
鼓楼区特地安排了5所学校作为直播点，这些学校设备良好。
Drum block specially arranged for five schools as live broadcast points, these schools are well equipped.
真正的挑战来自8000名来自山区的孩子，他们与鼓楼区孩子的学习水平有差异，教材也有差异，既有的讲课模式肯定不适用了。
The real challenge is the 8,000 children from the mountainous areas, who differ from the children in the Gulou area in terms of their level of learning, as well as from the textbooks, and the existing teaching model is certainly not applicable.
网课带给肖明娟的第二个挑战是，课程如何让一万多名基础各异的学生听得懂。
Xiao Mingjuan's second challenge is how the curriculum can be understood by more than 10,000 students with different backgrounds.
以往，肖明娟上课面对是教室里成群的学生，现在，她必须面对三个镜头。
In the past, Xiao Mingjuan is facing the classroom in groups of students, now, she has to face three scenes.
没有及时反馈，一下很难习惯得起来，更难适应的是，平时上课40分钟，现在直播课堂就20分钟。
Without timely feedback, it is hard to get used to getting used to, and even more difficult to adapt, is usually 40 minutes of classes, now live classroom 20 minutes.
以前的经验和教学模式，不管用了。
Previous experience and teaching model, no use.
“需要添加一些互动效果，预设学生会怎样回答。
"You need to add some interactive effects that presuppose how the students will respond.
”想象着自己面对一万多名学生，肖明娟的压力更大了。
Imagine yourself facing more than 10,000 students, Xiao Mingjuan is even more stressed.
如同一个电视节目策划，肖明娟自己先写教案，再进行小组备课，有了脚本后，她再通过视频和教研员讨论课件，了解卡时间、顺环节的技巧。
Like a TV program, Xiao Mingjuan wrote her own lesson plans, and then conducted group preparation, after the script, she through video and teaching researchers to discuss courseware, understand the card time, the smooth process skills.
彩排时，她对着镜子反复练习、确保没有费解、多余的话，这样课程才能在20分钟内完结。
During rehearsals, she practiced in front of a mirror to make sure there was no confusion or redundancy so that the lesson could be completed in 20 minutes.
为了保证网课质量，清北网校的“空中课堂”项目组也对授课老师进行了培训。
In order to ensure the quality of online courses, the "Air Classroom" project team of Tsinghua University also conducted training for instructors.
从2月2日起，清北网校每天安排4场线上培训，给老师和管理人员进行全面系统的操作培训。
From February 2, QNN arranged 4 on-line training sessions every day to train teachers and administrators in the operation of the system.
“不像那些专职主播，部分老师岁数比较大，添加摄像头、添加课件这一系列操作对他们来说挺困难的。
"Unlike the full-time anchormen, some teachers are older and it's hard for them to add cameras and add courseware.
”项目负责人刘芸说，一些老师还是第一次直播授课。
Some teachers were still giving lessons live for the first time, said Liu Yun, project director.
考虑到西部乡村孩子们，肖明娟的课程难度不高，图文并茂，为了让所有学生都听得清，她特意放慢了语速。
Considering the western country children, Xiao Mingjuan's curriculum is not difficult, pictorial, in order to let all students hear clearly, she deliberately slowed down the pace.
在镜头前，肖明娟摘下了会影响发音的口罩，为了配合暗蓝色的课件背景，她特地穿着一件紫红色毛衣。
In front of the camera, Xiao Mingjuan took off the mask will affect pronunciation, in order to match the dark blue background, she specially wore a purple sweater.
想象着镜头前学生听课的样子，肖明娟抬起右手，开始讲课。
Imagining the students attending the camera, Xiao Mingjuan raised her right hand and began to lecture.
在肖明娟看来，英语作为一门语言，是为了运用，而不仅为应试。
In Xiao Mingjuan's view, English as a language, is to use, not just to test.
直播时，她给孩子做示范，讲述自己的春节生活，从中自然带出了知识点。
During the live broadcast, she gave the children a demonstration of their own Spring Festival life, from which the natural knowledge point.
图 | 肖明娟讲课中她自己班级的孩子，除了当日背诵全部的新单词和词组外，可以举一反三，用新学的语法写成一篇短文。
The children in her class at Xiao Mingjuan's lecture can, in addition to reciting all the new words and phrases on the day, write a short essay in their new grammar.
然而到了下午答疑的时间，有些被帮扶地区的孩子，单词和语法还没搞清楚。
In the afternoon, however, some of the children in the help area, words and grammar are not clear.
这和两地生源的差别不无关系。
This is not unrelated to the differences between the two places.
肖明娟所在的鼓楼实验小学，是鼓楼区的重点小学，生源很好，大部分孩子来自经济条件和父母素质“双高”的家庭。
Xiao Mingjuan's Drum Tower Experimental Primary School is the key primary school in Gulou District, the source of students is very good, most of the children from economic conditions and parents quality "double high" families.
有的家长带孩子去电影院看小黄人，一定要看原版发音的，“从点滴的细节教育培养孩子” 。
Some parents take their children to the cinema to see the little yellow people, must see the original pronunciation, "from the details of education to raise children."
从家长反馈的照片里，肖明娟也看到，她班上的孩子几乎全用的电脑，屏幕大，不伤眼，照片背景大多在书房，干净亮堂。
From the parents' feedback photos, Xiao Mingjuan also saw that her class of children almost all the use of the computer, screen, not hurt eyes, the majority of photos background in the study, clean and bright.
有的孩子可以用笔记本电脑看教案，再拿平板放直播课，手机则用于接收微信群的信息。
Some children can use their laptops to read lectures, then use tablets to broadcast lessons, and mobile phones can be used to receive messages from microphone groups.
图 | 鼓楼实验小学学生在听直播课2000公里以外，就读于甘肃岷县东关小学的五年级学生黄倩，就没有网课学习设备的选择。
A fifth-grade student at Dongguan Primary School in Min County, Gansu, 2,000 kilometers away from the classroom, has no choice of online learning equipment.
家里经济紧张，没买电脑，妈妈又在外工作，黄倩和姐姐只能共用爸爸的手机，一起看直播课。
The family economy is tight, did not buy the computer, mother also works outside, Huang Qian and elder sister can only share father's mobile phone, watch the live class together.
家里没有wifi，她们用的流量，直播结束，就立马退出网络页面，防止流量浪费。
There is no wifi at home, their use of traffic, live broadcast end, immediately exited the web page, to prevent traffic waste.
从没有上过网课，对着直播的老师，黄倩感觉“怪怪的，像隔着什么”，花了两天适应，黄倩接受自己“多了一个老师”。
Having never taken an online course, Huang Qian felt "strange, like what is the other side" and spent two days getting used to it. Huang accepted his "extra teacher."
学习上，黄倩没有想过太紧迫的目标，觉得自己做好预习和复习就好。
On study, Huang Qian did not think too urgent goal, feel oneself do well preview and review.
但上直播课后，收发作业都在微信群里，黄倩和姐姐只有一台手机，只能错开时间来用。
But live after class, sending and receiving operations are in the micro-letter group, Huang Qian and sister only have a mobile phone, can only stagger time to use.
与黄倩相比，在南平松溪县实验小学上六年级的刘肖然要从容一些，家长重视教育，给她买了专用于学习的平板。
Comparing with Huang Qian, Liu Xiao Ran, who is in the sixth grade at Songxi County Experimental Primary School in Nanping, takes education seriously and buys her a tablet for study.
但对于其他投资，家长仍是谨慎。
But for other investments, parents remain cautious.
肖然意识到自己不懂写作文，家长赶紧找来了网络上的作文提高班，是体验版的。
Xiao Ran realized that he did not know how to write composition, parents quickly found the composition on the network to improve classes, is experiential version.
肖然听了五天，感觉有收获，但家长还没确定要不要给她买价值1800元的正式课程。
Xiao Ran listened for five days, feel harvest, but parents have not yet decided whether to buy her a formal class worth 1800 yuan.
肖然学习很刻苦，上学期期末英语考了96分，她自认为没发挥好。
Xiao Ran studied very hard, last semester at the end of the English exam 96 points, she thought she did not play well.
受疫情影响，开学延迟，她最担心的问题就是耽误学习，听说可以听直播课，肖然兴冲冲地坐在桌前，可没想到屏幕里的老师们“讲得有点快，有点听不懂”。
Because of the epidemic and the delay in starting school, she was most worried about delaying her studies, hearing that she could listen to live lessons, sitting at her desk in a sullen mood. But the teachers on the screen "spoke a little too quickly to understand".
发现这一点，肖然决定提前预习，可她没有借到语文的教科书，不像城里的孩子有打印复印一体机，肖然没能将课文、讲义打印下来，只能在屏幕里预习，将重点一字一句抄在本子上，再对照着回放的直播课学习一遍。
Discovering this, Xiao decided to preview, but she did not borrow language textbooks, like children in the city to print out a copy of the text, handout, can only preview in the screen, the key word copy in the book, and then against the playback of the live lessons.
适应直播课的节奏后，肖然也留意到了它和往常课堂的不同之处。
After adapting to the rhythm of the live broadcast class, Xiao Ran also noticed the difference between it and the normal classroom.
英语课上，肖然发现连“复述一遍课文”老师都是用英语表达的，全程没说普通话。
In English class, Xiao Ran found that even "retelling the text again" teachers are expressed in English, the entire process did not speak Mandarin.
这是肖然上的第一节全英文课。
This is Xiao Ran's first full English class.
清北网校的“空中课堂”打破了横亘在肖然眼前的教育壁垒，让优质的教育资源以屏幕为载体，流动在各个角落。
The "Classroom in the Air" of Tsinghua University breaks down the barriers to education in front of Xiao Ran, allowing high-quality educational resources to flow around the corner as a carrier.
不仅老师可以在线授课，实时管控直播间、查看上课人数和统计分析课程数据，学生也可以在移动和PC等多终端便捷上课，提前预习课堂知识点，在线评论与老师进行互动，之后还可以反复多次观看直播回放。
Not only are teachers able to teach online, manage the studio in real time, view attendance and statistical analysis course data, but students can also easily attend classes at multiple terminals, such as mobile and PC, preview classroom knowledge in advance, interact with teachers with online reviews, and then watch the playback repeatedly.
图 | 空中课堂网页界面原本专注于中小学课程在线辅导的清北网校，疫情期间已经免费为福建、广州、湖北等近20个省份中上千所中小学校搭建了“空中课堂”。
The air-class interface, which used to focus on online tutoring for primary and secondary schools, has set up free air classes for thousands of primary and middle schools in nearly 20 provinces, including Fujian, Guangzhou and Hubei.
在直播间强大的技术支撑下，“空中课堂”实现了教育资源的平等共享，孩子们站在了同一起跑线上。
Under the strong support of direct broadcasting technology, the "air class" has realized the equal sharing of educational resources, and the children stand on the same starting line.
这次被选上做直播的鼓楼区教师，上的每堂课几乎都是公开课水准。
This time was selected to do live drumming district teachers, almost every class on the level of open class.
开课几天后，冯海艳明显感觉到了同学们的热情。
A few days after the beginning of the class, Feng Haiyan obviously felt the enthusiasm of his classmates.
一天，她早上8点多打开手机，发现6点出头，就有学生在群里打卡，开始学习。
One day she turned on her cell phone at more than 8 a.m. and found that in her early sixties, some students were punching and studying in the group.
冯海艳这天准备等孩子们上完语文、数学课后，下午再布置英语作业，没想到中午时，就有学生在微信上问：“老师，今天的作业是什么？”这个学生已完成了课程的预习。
Feng Haiyan one day ready to wait for the children to finish the language, math class, the afternoon layout of English homework, I did not expect that at noon, students on the micro-letter asked: "Teacher, today's homework?" This student has completed the course of preparatory classes.
课程形式的颠覆，也让裴美玲想起从前条件艰苦的时候，那会教室里没暖气，生煤炉，放学后为了节省煤，不能再生，操场里有太阳，反而比教室里还暖和一点，爱学习的孩子，就拿着粉笔在操场的地上默写古诗。
The overturning of the curriculum also reminded Pei Mei-ling of the hard times when there was no heating in the classroom, a raw coal stove, no regeneration after school in order to save coal, the playground instead of the sun, but a little warmer than the classroom, love learning children, with chalk on the playground floor silent ancient poetry.
图 | 甘肃岷县东照小学学生在听直播课在空中课堂，裴美玲觉得老师们不光是教学者，更像是魔术师，“孩子们在家就可以像海绵一样去吸收扑面而来的知识”。
Picture & # 124; & # 45; Students at Dongzhao Primary School in Minxian, Gansu Province, were listening to live classes in the air. Pickerell felt that teachers were more like magicians than teachers.
对在山区教书20年的裴美玲来说，这就是她梦想中的场景。
For Blair Pickerell, who has been teaching in the mountains for 20 years, this is the scene of her dream.
*文中刘芸、黄倩、刘肖然为化名。
* Liu Yun, Huang Qian and Liu Xiao Ran are aliases.
- END -撰文| 张舒婷 郑婷编辑| 雷磊。
- END-writing & # 124; & # 44; Zhang Shu Ting Editing & # 124; & # 44; Lei.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
当穷孩子也开始上网课。
When poor kids start taking classes online too.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "当穷孩子也开始上网课";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when poor children started & quot; & quot; & quot; class.
var msg_desc = "挤进一间教室的七万个孩子。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 70,000 children crowded into a classroom.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
