中山医院赴武汉医疗队领队：不希望我的队员说太多豪言壮语。
Zhongshan Hospital to Wuhan Medical Team Leader: I do not want my players to say too much bravado.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：截至2月17日，全国已有3.2万余名医护人员支援湖北，支持湖北实现“应收尽收、应治尽治”。
As of February 17, more than 32,000 medical personnel had supported Hubei in realizing the principle of "receiving as much as possible and treating as much as possible."
2月7日，其中一支医疗队的领队、复旦大学附属中山医院副院长朱畴文率领的136人队伍奉调入鄂，一天后接管了武汉大学人民医院东院两层病房，专治重症患者。
On February 7, 136 troops led by Zhu Yuwen, vice-dean of Fudan University's Zhongshan Hospital, took over the two-storey ward of the East Hospital of Wuhan University on February 7.
他提到，这个疾病还很神秘，存在诸多未知，但根据以往经验，有一些手段可以针对性治疗。
He noted that the disease was still mysterious and unknown, but that, based on past experience, there were a number of tools available for targeted treatment.
“我们是经过严格训练的专业医务人员，请相信我们的责任心，请相信我们的使命感和学识，我们会把这个工作尽可能做到最好。
"We are highly trained medical professionals and you can count on our sense of responsibility, our sense of mission and our learning, and we will do the best we can.
”文 |周航编辑 |王珊支援武汉逾十天，上海中山医院医疗队定下很多规矩，最重要的一条是，安全第一。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
作为领队，朱畴文下发的第一条指令是在武汉机场：所有人戴上N95口罩，尽量避免触碰机场内任何物体。
The first instruction Zhu issued as a team leader was at Wuhan airport: All wore N95 masks and avoided touching anything in the airport.
朱畴文相信，有着国内顶尖水平的同事们能很好完成任务，但整个医疗队的安危，需要他这个领队来负责，由整个团队共同参与。
Zhu believes that colleagues with the best domestic level can do a good job, but the safety of the entire medical team, the leadership of his team to be responsible for the participation of the entire team.
初到武汉，入驻武汉大学人民医院东院，中山医院医疗队就制定了感染控制条例，不允许医护人员冒任何风险。
Wuhan, the first time to the East Hospital of Wuhan University People's Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital Medical Team on the establishment of infection control regulations, do not allow any risks to medical staff.
2月11日凌晨，接班的护士发现备用N95口罩告罄，只剩挂耳口罩，值班医生坚决不许她们进污染区。
In the early morning hours of 11 February, nurses on duty insisted that they not enter the contaminated area after finding that the spare N95 mask was running out and only hanging ear masks.
直到联络员从十几公里外的酒店送来口罩，再交接班。
Until the liaison from the hotel more than 10 kilometers away sent masks, and then hand over.
安全防护之外，其他的规矩还有很多，背后的原则都是一样的，尊重每个个体的尊严和基本需求。
There are many other rules besides security, and the principles behind them are the same, respecting the dignity and basic needs of each individual.
为了不过于劳累，医疗队规定，在隔离区工作时间不超过4小时。
In order not to be overworked, the medical team stipulated that work in the area of separation should not exceed four hours.
特殊时期，朱畴文也有无可奈何的心疼，因为缺乏护工、清洁员，护士们要给病人喂水喂饭，擦身，清理污物，打扫病房，搬运氧气钢罐，这也影响了他们重症照护专长的发挥。
In special times, Zhu Yuwen also suffered from a lack of caretakers, cleaners and nurses who fed and fed patients, cleaned their bodies, cleaned the wards and carried oxygen tanks, which also affected their expertise in intensive care.
他和医院能做的就是尽可能关怀医护人员。
All he and the hospital can do is care for the staff as much as possible.
从羽绒服的大小，到家人的口罩。
From the size of a down jacket to a family mask.
情人节，每个队友分到了一盒巧克力。
On Valentine's Day, each teammate was given a box of chocolates.
一位队员过生日还吃上了蛋糕。
One member of the team had cake for his birthday.
"这也是很普通的事情，没必要渲染。
It's just a normal thing to do, and it doesn't have to be overstated.
"朱畴文说，语言一如既往的直接、干脆——他不说豪言壮语，也不希望队员们说豪言壮语，"我们就是干好自己的本职工作。
Zhu said that the language was as direct and straightforward as ever - he didn't speak big words, and didn't want the team to say it, and that we just did our job.
”以下内容根据朱畴文讲述整理：1“生活上已经步入了正轨”就我个人而言，这是我第一次支援外地。
In my case, this is the first time that I have supported a foreign country.
家里人肯定担心，但我是医生，又是领导，没有什么话好讲，说出发就出发了。
The family must have worried, but I was a doctor and a leader, had nothing to say, and set off.
其实，在这之前，上海已经派出多支医疗队，我们医院也有不少同事参与其中。
In fact, before this, Shanghai has sent a number of medical teams, our hospital also has many colleagues involved.
我们也知道，作为国家卫健委委属医院，武汉如果需要还支援，我们肯定继续要上的，只是不清楚时间。
We also know that as a national health-care commission hospital, Wuhan if the need for support, we will certainly continue to go, but not clear the time.
但队伍规模那么大确实没想到。
But the size of the team really did not expect.
按照国家卫健委的要求，去前线支援的医疗队要带足10天物资，包括防护物资以及必要生活用品。
At the request of the National Fitness Commission, medical teams going to the front lines are required to carry a full 10-day supply of supplies, including protective equipment and essential supplies.
我们就按照这个要求携带了。
We took it with us in accordance with this request.
像卫生巾一类的女性用品，除了个人携带，医院都有准备。
Female products such as sanitary towels are prepared in hospitals except for personal items.
出发的时候我没有想象武汉的情况，到了再看吧，我们自己调整。
I did not imagine the departure of Wuhan, to see it again, we adjust ourselves.
当时说，物资还是当地医院提供，如果不足，我们后方也要及时补充。
At that time, said that supplies or local hospitals, if insufficient, we will also be timely replenishment.
到了发现，确实武汉也没有弹尽粮绝，人民医院很努力在筹备物资。
To the discovery, it is true that Wuhan did not run out of food, the people's hospital very hard in preparing materials.
最重要的防护物品这块，我们目前也是用他们准备的多。
The most important item of protection, we are also using them to prepare more.
武大人民医院感染科主任刘志超向医疗队的医生团队介绍患者情况。
Liu Zhichao, director of infection department at WU People's Hospital, briefed the medical team about the patient.
图片来自中山医院微信公号现阶段（物资）紧缺肯定还是有的。
Picture from Zhongshan Hospital micro-letter official at this stage (supplies) shortage is certainly there.
物资有采购的，有调拨的，也有捐赠的，型号、品牌不一，我们会非常细致检查。
Materials have been purchased, some transferred, some donated, models, brands vary, we will be very carefully inspected.
一些东西，比如口罩、防护服，如果不能满足我们的要求，或者用起来不舒服，那我们就用自己带来的。
Some things, such as masks and protective clothing, if they don't meet our requirements or are uncomfortable to use, we bring them with us.
到武汉，第一天晚上是蛮艰苦的，因为不能开中央空调，房间里很冷，但第二天取暖设备就补充上了。
To Wuhan, the first night is tough, because can not turn on the central air conditioning, the room is very cold, but the next day heating equipment was added.
现在，每人一条电热毯肯定有的，暖风机，充油式电暖器，我们也叫油汀，每个房间都有。
Now, there must be an electric blanket for everyone, a radiator, an oil-filled heater, we call it a oletine, and every room has it.
前段时间每人发了羽绒服。
Everyone had a down jacket some time ago.
不单是医院提供，这些主要是当地和上海捐赠的。
It's not just hospitals. These are mainly donations from local and Shanghai.
酒店楼道还有后方送来的紫外线灯，供轮流房间消毒用。
The hotel hallway also has the ultraviolet light from the rear to disinfect the room in turn.
现在生活上已经步入了正轨。
Life is now on the right track.
时间关系，物资有些没有考虑到的，后面再补充过来。
Time relationship, some of the material did not take into account, and later added.
比如说全身防护还需要鞋套，之前没考虑到，后来及时运过来。
For example, the whole body protection also needs shoe cover, did not take into account before, later shipping in time.
另外长时间戴防护用品，脸上有压痕，皮肤破损，需要一些敷贴，还有水润性的东西，后方也及时调用过来。
Also wear protective equipment for long periods of time, face indentation, skin damage, need some compress, and wetting things, after the timely call.
另外，包括内衣，鞋子，冲锋衣，医院都准备得很齐全。
In addition, including underwear, shoes, emergency clothing, the hospital is well prepared.
我们楼道里头有上百箱的纸尿裤，但现在严格控制隔离区工作时间，其实都用不上。
We have hundreds of cartons of diapers in the hallway, but we don't have time to strictly control working hours in the quarantine zone.
我们的女性队员也多，队伍里护士100个，只有9个男的。
We also have more female team members, the team of 100 nurses, only 9 men.
医生中也有相当多的女性。
There are also a considerable number of women among doctors.
我可以说，她们没有人因为缺乏什么物资而烦恼，从而影响工作。
I can say that none of them was bothered by a lack of material things, which interfered with their work.
我们也没要求她们一定要理发什么的。
We didn't ask them to have a haircut or anything.
实际上，护理部对护士的头发一直是有规定，不是说不能留长发，但留长发必须要盘在帽子里头。
Actually, the nursing department has a policy on nurses' hair, not that it should not be long, but that long hair must be curled up in the hat.
出发前，有的护士自己为了方便，去医院的理发屋剪发。
Before leaving, some nurses went to the barber shop of the hospital for their convenience.
有的我看现在也有点长，那就盘在里面。
Yes, I think it's a little long now, so it's in there.
医疗队中有6位行政后勤人员，其中4位都具有临床背景。
There are six administrative logistics personnel in the medical team, four of whom have clinical backgrounds.
还有两位，一位是医务处的干部，一位是总务处的干部，他们主要负责物资的保障（收、发）和内部很多事务性工作。
In addition, there are two staff members, one in the Medical Service and one in the General Service, who are mainly responsible for material security (receipt, dispatch) and many clerical tasks in-house.
比如联系确定每天的班车。
For example contact the daily shuttle bus.
我要求队员们每天结束工作，尽快返回驻地。
I asked the players to finish their work every day and return to the station as soon as possible.
所以班车在早班出发后，从中午开始，基本上就每一个小时都要往返一次，一直到晚上。
So the shuttle bus starts at noon after the morning shift and basically goes back and forth every hour until evening.
深夜、后半夜也安排了。
Late at night and after midnight.
班次密，司机也辛苦，武汉高新区、人民医院给了很大的支持。
shift dense, the driver also laborious, Wuhan high-tech district, the people's hospital gave a lot of support.
后方来物资，大件都是通过专线到武昌火车站，也要去接，向指挥部申请大车，但有时候没工人，我们就开好心人捐借的商务车，蚂蚁搬家。
After the arrival of goods, large items are through the special line to Wuchang railway station, also to pick up, from the headquarters to apply for large cars, but sometimes no workers, we have donated good people to drive business cars, ants move.
所以是没有闲人的。
So there are no idlers.
另外，网上说我们医院还带了厨师、保安，这是讹传。
In addition, the Internet said that our hospital also brought cooks, security guards, which is a rumor.
我们想带厨师也没地方开火烧啊，带保安干嘛，没有，真没有。
We don't have room for a chef to set fire to. Why? No, not really.
我们一天三顿都由酒店或者医院供应。
We serve three meals a day at a hotel or hospital.
吃的东西没什么问题，不谈味道哦。
There's nothing wrong with the food, not the taste.
就是队员就餐时间可能不规律。
It is the team dining time may not be regular.
两边都有微波炉，有时候就自己加热吧。
There are microwave ovens on both sides. Sometimes just heat yourself.
希望持续的交通管制不要对食品尤其是肉食品的供应产生太大的影响。
It is hoped that continuous traffic control will not have too great an impact on the supply of food, especially meat.
晚上21时到次日早上7时，中山医院医疗队为夜班医护提供补给。
From 21 p.m. to 7 a.m. the following day, the medical team at Zhongshan Hospital provided night medical supplies.
图片来自中山医院微信公众号2三十多位转为轻症，三位患者去世我们接手了人民医院内科大楼两层，原来一层是心内科病房，一层是神经内科病房。
Photo taken from the Zhongshan Hospital Weixin Public Hospital, more than 230 into light illness, the death of three patients we took over the People's Hospital internal medicine building two floors, the original floor is the cardiology ward, the one is the neuroendoscopic ward.
人民医院东院非常不容易，短时间从综合性医院改造成传染病医院，从最早的200张定点床位，到后来400张，现在又加到800张重症隔离病房。
The East Hospital of the People's Hospital was very difficult to convert for a short period of time from a general hospital to a hospital for infectious diseases, from the earliest 200 fixed-bed beds to 400 later, and now to 800 intensive care wards.
改造后，这些病房能够满足传染病房三区（清洁区、污染区和半污染区）两通道（医务人员通道和病人通道）分隔的基本要求。
After the renovation, these wards were able to meet the basic requirements for the separation of the two corridors (medical staff access and patient access) of the three wards of the infectious diseases room (cleaning area, contaminated area and semi-polluted area).
我们来之前，病房已经收治新冠肺炎感染病人，但很多都是轻症，医生也是原先科室的医生。
By the time we arrived, the wards had treated patients with pneumonia, but many of them were mild, and the doctors were doctors in the same department.
我们进来后，根据指挥部的要求，轻症病人出院，后面只转入重症病人。
After we came in, according to the command, light patients were discharged from the hospital, after which only serious patients were transferred.
现在加起来我们一共管理80张床位，目前有70位病人，都是重症病人，也有部分危重病人。
Together we now manage a total of 80 beds, and there are currently 70 patients, both seriously ill and partially critically ill.
好一点的病人自己能走路，生活基本能自理，有些检查也可以自己过去做，严重的就完全在床上动不了，一直上着呼吸机。
Better patients can walk by themselves, life is basically self-care, some checks can be done by themselves, serious on the bed completely unable to move, always on the ventilator.
现在治疗采取的都是综合措施。
Treatment is now based on a comprehensive approach.
比如各种氧疗，抗病毒药物、低剂量的激素，以及不能忘了的是增加营养，还有“话疗”，就是言语上尽量安慰病人，让他们放松，更有信心。
For example, oxygen therapy, antiviral drugs, low-dose hormones, and, not to forget, increased nutrition, as well as "speech therapy," are words that try to comfort patients, relax and feel more confident.
这次疾病需要依靠患者免疫力痊愈，他们的精神状态很重要。
This disease depends on the patient's immunity to cure, their mental state is very important.
到现在（2月19日），累计有30多位转为轻症调去别的地方，也有三位患者没有抢救过来，不幸去世。
Up to now (February 19), a cumulative total of more than 30 people have been transferred to other places, but also three patients did not rescue, unfortunately died.
我们每一个病例肯定要分析，讨论，是不是未来有改进空间。
Each of our cases will certainly have to be analyzed, discussed, and there is room for improvement in the future.
我们这次面临的疾病确实凶险，一些重症病人情况会突然恶化，有时根本预想不到这样的改变，就是我的同事、最早到金银潭医院支援的重症科医生钟鸣之前提到的“炎症风暴”，现在大家都很熟悉这一说法，但具体怎么治疗，还是在摸索中。
The disease we are facing is indeed dangerous, and the situation of some seriously ill patients has suddenly deteriorated. It is not always anticipated that the "inflammatory storm" mentioned earlier by my colleague Zhong Ming, a specialist in the intensive care unit who first went to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, is now well known, but how to treat it is still being explored.
还有一个问题，现在没有护工，清洁员也很少。
Another problem is that there are no nurses and very few cleaners.
我们的护士要做很多清洁、护理工作，甚至搬运氧气钢瓶。
Our nurses do a lot of cleaning, nursing and even moving oxygen cylinders.
护士、医生，都是挑选出来的有专业的精锐，踏实能干。
Nurses, doctors, are selected out of the professional elite, practical and capable.
但这不应该成为一个常态，也是我们必须要正视的问题。
But this should not be the norm, and it is something that we must confront.
供氧不足也是武汉普遍的问题。
Lack of oxygen supply is also a common problem in Wuhan.
病房原来的供氧设计，就不是为如此大规模需要氧气的病人所使用。
The original oxygen supply in the ward was not designed for patients who needed oxygen on such a large scale.
每个重症患者都需要氧气，区别只在于，有的是间歇吸氧，有的需要持续吸，有的面罩吸氧就够了，有的需要插管。
Every patient in serious condition needs oxygen. The difference is between intermittent oxygenation, continuous suction, oxygen absorption by some masks, and intubation.
现在就是用氧气钢罐来补充，所以说护士们很辛苦。
Now it's using oxygen tanks to replenish it, so it's hard for nurses.
另外，我们作为重症病房，要救治一些危重患者，其实也需要完整的ICU配置，目前已经配备很多机器，但还是不够。
In addition, we as the intensive care unit, to save some critically ill patients, in fact also need the complete ICU configuration, has been equipped with many machines, but is not enough.
比如说呼吸机型号各异，一些管道、过滤网都不配套。
For example, different types of respirator, some pipes, filters do not match.
当然这些不可能一步到位，现在其实比刚来已经好多了，也在继续改善。
Of course, these cannot be put in place one step at a time, in fact, is much better than just now, and continue to improve.
我们这次来了30个医生，涉及10个专业，以呼吸、重症和感染为主，还有麻醉科、急诊科、心内科、神经内科、肾内科、消化科等，当然还有护理学科。
We have 30 doctors in 10 specialties, mainly respiratory, severe and infectious, as well as anesthesiology, emergency medicine, cardiology, neurology, renal medicine, digestive medicine, and of course nursing.
医学是专业的，严谨的，我们尊重医学规律，在已有的、公认的处理原则、规定的基础上，根据临床状况，予以诊治，因为有许多未知，所以肯定有探索性的实践在里面。
Medicine is professional, rigorous, we respect the laws of medicine, on the basis of established and recognized principles and regulations, according to clinical conditions, diagnosis and treatment, because there are many unknown, so there must be exploratory practice in it.
关于治疗，我想强调的是，第一，这个疾病还很神秘，存在诸多未知，但我们也并非一无所知。
With regard to treatment, I would like to stress that, first, the disease is still mysterious and unknown, but we are not ignorant of it.
它毕竟也是一个病毒，临床表现以肺部为主，也有侵袭其他脏器的表现。
After all, it is also a virus, clinical manifestations of the lungs, but also invasion of other organs.
根据以往经验，我们还是有一些手段可以针对性治疗。
Based on past experience, there are a number of tools available for targeted treatment.
第二，我们是经过严格训练的专业医务人员，请相信我们的责任心，请相信我们的使命感和专业学识，我们会把这个工作尽可能做到最好。
Secondly, we are highly trained medical professionals. Please be assured of our responsibility and of our sense of mission and expertise, and we will do the best we can.
一位医生从隔离区抢救病人回来，躺在办公室的椅子上小憩一会。
A doctor rescues a patient from the isolation area and lies in an office chair for a nap.
图片来自中山医院微信公号3“我们的医护人员是勇敢的，但不要认为英雄就应该献身”我现在基本上就是驻地和酒店两点一线。
"Our paramedics are brave, but don't think heroes should die." I'm basically a line between the hotel and the station.
工作内容，一个是保障，一个是协调，比如和后方沟通需求，协调接收上海运来的物资等等。
Work content, one is a guarantee, one is coordination, such as and rear communication requirements, coordination of the receipt of goods sent by sea, and so on.
再一个队伍管理，到现在我们已经发了5个通告，最重要就是感染控制、强调安全的条例。
Another team management, so far we have issued five notices, the most important is infection control, emphasis on safety regulations.
另外还有一些生活上的规定，比如不要随便外出。
There are other rules in life, such as not to go out at will.
另外，在人民医院东院，每两天晚上要开一次领队会议，人民医院和几个援助医疗队（分别来自新疆、陕西、四川、辽宁、山东等）一起开会。
In addition, in the East Hospital of the People's Hospital, a group-leader meeting is held every two nights, together with the People's Hospital and several medical aid teams (from Xinjiang, Shaanxi, Sichuan, Liaoning, Shandong, etc.).
物资配备、药物供应、检测检查、医疗流程、专业会诊需求等等，有什么特殊问题需要大家共同解决，一起探讨。
Material equipment, drug supply, testing and inspection, medical procedures, professional consultation needs, and so on, there are any special problems we need to solve together, explore together.
比如拍床旁片子，要怎么预约，做好检查，报告怎么回来，各种各样的细节，大家都问清楚。
For example, make a bed next to the film, how to make an appointment, do a good job checking, how to report back, various details, we all ask clearly.
七个医疗队在这里，医疗原则是相通的，但多少诊疗习惯上有点区别，都需要与人民医院沟通，会有个性化安排。
Seven medical teams here, the medical principles are common, but the number of diagnosis and treatment habits are somewhat different, all need to communicate with the people's hospital, there will be personalized arrangements.
我们现在都有人民医院的工号。
We all have people's hospital job numbers now.
每个医生上班时间不一样，由工作的性质决定，大家都是轮的，也没有必要强调值个夜班就是奉献很大。
Every doctor has different working hours, because the nature of the work, everyone is rotating, there is no need to emphasize that night work is a great dedication.
其实在上海，大家也很辛苦。
In fact, in Shanghai, we are also very hard.
总之，原则就是去符合人本身的体力、精力、脑力，并且尽量做到公平安排。
In short, the principle is to accord with one's own physical, mental, and energy, and try to be fair.
不能要求去过度消耗，比如在隔离区，几层手套，全套防护服，鞋套等，不能吃东西、上厕所，工作环境和平常完全不同，操作也是开始陌生的。
Can not require excessive consumption, such as in the isolation zone, a few layers of gloves, full protective clothing, shoes cover, and so on, can not eat, toilet, work environment and normal completely different, the operation is also beginning to unfamiliar.
所以，我们严格规定隔离区的护士每班不能超过4个小时。
As a result, we strictly limit nurses in the exclusion zone to four hours per shift.
如果有人出现什么任何不舒服，比如说普通发热，或者是在隔离区高强度连续工作，有的护士脱水，晕过去了，那就安排休息。
If someone has any discomfort, like a normal fever, or high-intensity continuous work in an isolation area, or if a nurse is dehydrated and faints, schedule a break.
来这里第六天，我们通过小程序做过匿名的问卷调查，询问对住宿、对伙食、对排班、对交通的看法。
On the sixth day, we did an anonymous questionnaire about our views on accommodation, food, scheduling, and transportation.
大家总体还是满意的。
There was general satisfaction.
有人提出，能不能给上海家里送点防护用品，我立刻跟总部反映，总部说完全可以，马上操作，每户送些口罩。
It was suggested that if I could send some protective equipment to my home in Shanghai, I would immediately report to the head office that it would be possible to operate immediately and bring some masks to every household.
还有一些个人问题，也要单独落实解决。
There are also personal problems that need to be addressed separately.
比如有人说，羽绒服领的太大了，我们让他马上找过来，点对点解决。
For example, someone said that the down jacket collar is too big, we let him immediately find it, point-to-point solution.
到现在为止，我们两个病区有三个患者不幸去世。
So far, three patients in our two sick areas have died.
对于有着相当资历的医生和护士来说，死亡本身并不是一件非常可怕的事。
For highly qualified doctors and nurses, death itself is not such a terrible thing.
但新的环境，医护人员需要一些疏导，劝慰。
But in the new environment, medical staff need some counseling and persuasion.
我想强调的是，如果你想让医护人员保持比较平和的状态，你首先要想好医院给他提供了什么---是不是有足够的防护，工作的任务有没有不切实际，如果没有做到这些，那就不要奢谈心理干预。
I would like to stress that if you want to keep the paramedics in a relatively peaceful state, you have to figure out first what the hospital has to offer him - whether there is enough protection, whether the task at hand is not realistic, and if not, don't talk about psychological intervention.
这个疾病具有传染性，救治工作有很大挑战，从这个意义上说，我们的医护人员是勇敢的。
Our health-care workers are courageous in the sense that the disease is contagious and the treatment is challenging.
但不要认为“英雄”就应该献身。
But don't think "heroes" should die.
什么是英雄？不戴防护用品直接去抢救病人就是英雄，这个肯定没道理。
What is a hero? To go directly to the rescue of a patient without a protective device is a hero.
严格讲起来，受伤都不应该，要尽量避免。
Strictly speaking, injuries should not be, to avoid as much as possible.
表彰也不要跑到天上去。
And do not run to heaven.
说得低一点，我们只不过换一个城市，换一家医院，但工作性质没有变样，医生还是医生，护士还是护士。
To put it mildly, we simply changed the city and the hospital, but the nature of the work did not change, the doctor or doctor, nurse or nurse.
我始终觉得，救死扶伤，防控疫情，就是我们的职责。
I have always felt that saving lives, preventing and controlling the epidemic is our responsibility.
我希望大家能够完成工作，但完成工作的前提是保证安全。
I hope that you will be able to finish your work, but only if you can do so.
我们不仅是说把医护人员当人，我们应该把每个人当人，尤其是病人，需要全方位、全身心的照护，这是做人的非常基本的要求。
We are not just talking about the medical personnel as people, we should treat everyone as a person, especially the sick, need all-round, full-time care, this is a very basic human requirements.
这种人文关怀也贯穿于我们平常的点滴。
This kind of humanistic concern also runs through our ordinary drip.
比如我们的医护人员会给患者分发水果，提供智能手机，帮助一些老人和家人视频。
For example, our paramedics distribute fruit to patients, provide smartphones, and help with videos for the elderly and their families.
实际上，不在这些方面关心患者，我们整个救治照护也是不完整。
In fact, we do not care for patients in these areas, our entire treatment and care is incomplete.
这些也都是很自然的事，没必要渲染什么。
These are also very natural things, there is no need to exaggerate what.
我不喜欢说豪言壮语，我也不希望我的队员去说太多的豪言壮语。
I don't like to talk big and I don't want my players to say too much bravado.
大家就是尊重规律，按照流程，做好自己的事情。
Everyone is to respect the rule, according to the process, do their own thing.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中山医院赴武汉医疗队领队：不希望我的队员说太多豪言壮语。
Zhongshan Hospital to Wuhan Medical Team Leader: I do not want my players to say too much bravado.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "中山医院赴武汉医疗队领队：不希望我的队员说太多豪言壮语";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们的医护人员是勇敢的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Our paramedics were brave.
但不要认为“英雄”就应该献身。
But don't think "heroes" should die.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
