林俊杰、孙燕姿为疫情写歌：没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱。
Lin Junjie, Sun Yanzi wrote songs for the epidemic: there is no imprisoned city, only do not leave love.
林铭豪等。
Lin Minghao et al.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱。
There is no imprisoned city, only love that does not leave.
文 | 林铭豪 陈嘉玲 崔旭蕾编辑 | 沈小山 Play “stay with you等待着日出不想说多累，多辛苦。
Lin Ming-hao Chen Ka-ling Choi Yulei Editing & # 45; Shen Hill "With you waiting for the sunrise not to say how tired, how hard.
”           ——《STAY WITH YOU》歌词28日，歌手林俊杰（JJ）在微博上发布了自己作曲的新歌MV《STAY WITH YOU》，并配文“就算再艰难，爱不会离开，I will stay with you”。
The lyrics to STAY WITH YOU, singer JJ JJ released his new song, "STAY WITH YOU," on a microblog on Monday, with the words "No matter how hard it is, I will stay with you.
这条微博到今天已有超过55万次转发、174万个点赞。
To date, the blog has received more than 550,000 retweets and 1.74 million commendations.
在目前全国各地仍聚焦抗击新型冠状病毒肺炎的时候，林俊杰的新歌能收获如此热度，除了自身影响力，更关键的还是这首歌本身为疫情而做，林俊杰还在微博中特地@人民日报。
At a time when the nation is still focused on fighting the new coronavirus pneumonia, Lin Junjie's new song can harvest so much heat, in addition to its own influence, more importantly the song itself for the outbreak of the disease, Lin Junjie in Weibo specifically @ People's Daily.
《STAY WITH YOU》的作词人、歌手孙燕姿在微博留言说，这首新歌从策划到完成不过数天时间，是林俊杰为“致敬前线所有人员”而作。
Singer Sun Yanzi, author of STAY WITH YOU, said in a message on Weibo that the new song was written by Lin for "all the people on the front line" in just a few days from its inception to its completion.
而在此前网络上还一度出现有人质疑林俊杰作为公众人物并未就疫情发声，新歌一经推出，被“暖到”的网友惊叹“不愧是你（林俊杰）”。
In the previous network also appeared to doubt that Lin Junjie as a public figure did not voice the epidemic, once the new song was launched, "warm to" the netizens exclaim "worthy of you (Lin Junjie).
“信仰，是我最大的力量”这其实不是林俊杰第一次为重大事件写歌，2008年汶川地震、2009年台湾88风灾、2015年台湾八仙尘爆事故期间，林俊杰分别写了《爱与希望》、《妈妈的娜鲁娃》、《I pray for you》三首歌，借此表达自己的祝福与鼓励，在华语音乐界传为佳话。
"Faith is my greatest strength" This is not the first time Lin Junjie wrote songs for major events. During the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, the Taiwan 88 disaster in 2009 and the Dust Blast in Taiwan in 2015, Lin Junjie wrote three songs, "Love and Hope," "Mother's Naruva" and "I Pray for You," respectively.
从1996年开始正式踏足音乐界，林俊杰出道至今已有20余年时间，凭借其过人的音乐才华及扎实的唱功被称为“行走的CD”，成为与五月天、周杰伦一样在两岸三地都极具影响力的90年代新生台湾音乐人。
Since 1996, Lin Junjie has officially stepped into the music industry, has been more than 20 years, relying on his outstanding musical talent and solid singing skills known as "walking CD," as May days, Jay Chou in both sides of the same impact in the 1990s, Taiwan's new musicians.
在90年代崭露头角，尔后逐渐成长为台湾乃至华语流行音乐界代表人物的歌手在唱作上都具有同质化的特点：敢于创新、出道历程曲折、音乐精神正向、两岸联结密切，而林俊杰无疑是拥有这些特性的代表歌手。
The singer who emerged in the 1990s and became a representative figure in Taiwan and even Chinese pop music has the characteristics of homogeneity in singing: daring to innovate, zigzag course, positive music spirit, close cross-strait ties, and Lin Junjie is undoubtedly a representative singer with these characteristics.
但影响林俊杰这种关切社会的情怀的，也离不开其信仰。
But Lin Junjie this concern about the feelings of the community, but also inseparable from their faith.
林俊杰16岁便信仰基督教，2007年成立的个人工作室“JFJ”即取“Just For Jesus”（只为耶稣）的意思。
As a Christian at the age of 16, JFJ, a personal studio founded in 2007, means "Just For Jesus".
在忠实于自己的音乐道路上，林俊杰也毫不掩饰个人信仰带给他的精神力量，他的饰品中总有十字架的影子、写下了歌曲《圣所》、还在2018年开始了名为“圣所”的巡回演唱会。
Faithful to his music, Lin Junjie also made no secret of the spiritual strength of his personal beliefs, including the cross in his ornaments, his writing of the song "Holy Place," and his 2018 roving concert called "The Holy Place."
在这次为抗击疫情而做的新MV中，也出现了他进行祷告以及“圣所”演唱会湖北场时天空突显彩虹的画面，这样的用心既是林俊杰对自身信仰和价值的表达，也是其在用信仰为武汉加油。
In this new MV to fight the epidemic, he also appeared in prayer and "Holy Place" concert Hubei field when the sky highlighted the rainbow, such intentions are Lin Junjie's own beliefs and values, but also their faith in Wuhan refueling.
（MV解读 图源：微博用户@吸小瓜）“她的爱从未离开”林俊杰新歌发布的填词一栏，映入眼帘的是孙燕姿的名字。
"Her love never leaves," Lin Junjie's new song published in the filling column, met Sun Yanzi's name.
在微博评论区里，她说：“Stay With You是我们的一份心意。
"Stay With You is one of our hearts," she said in the Weibo comments section.
谢谢你们，辛苦了”。
Thank you for your hard work.
没有空喊口号，孙燕姿在无声无息地传递支持与爱。
Without shouting slogans, Sun Yanzi quietly conveys her support and love.
细细品味歌词，细腻的情感和真挚的关怀倾注在每一个字里行间，不必太多言语，寥寥数字已足够直击人心。
Taste the lyrics, tender feelings and sincere care in every line, do not have to say too much, few numbers have been enough to hit the heart.
在这个被无数疫情的新闻刷屏、充斥的“寒冬”，无疑如春风化雨般为紧紧揪着心的人们送去了一丝安慰。
In this by numerous epidemic news brush screen, full of "cold winter," no doubt like the spring wind and rain for the people clinging to the heart sent a ray of comfort.
然而，她做的事还不止如此，匿名默默地为武汉捐款——但是“韩红好友孙女士”这个名字还是让眼尖的网友们一下子就发现了她。
Still, she did more than that, donating anonymously and quietly to Wuhan - but the name "Miss Sun" caught the eye of her netizens.
就这样，在我们看不到的角落，她安静地用爱发电。
In this way, where we can't see, she quietly uses love to generate electricity.
在转发募款微博时，孙燕姿写下这样一句话：“善良的人最酷”。
In forwarding the fundraising tweets, Sun Yanzi wrote the following sentence: "Kind people are the coolest."
看似平淡无奇的一句，实则包裹着无数滚烫的善意。
Seemingly ordinary sentence, the fact is wrapped up in countless hot goodwill.
作为爱心大使关注留守儿童问题、参与家扶基金会的公益活动、举办慈善演出等，孙燕姿身体力行地助力公益。
As a caring ambassador concerned about children left behind, participating in the public welfare activities of the Family Support Foundation, organising charitable performances, etc., Sun Yanzi has done her utmost to help the public interest.
才情出众只是她身上众多的闪光点之一，秉持着一颗有温度的心，这份双箭头的爱让众多的粉丝追随了这么多年。
Her talent is just one of many bright spots on her body, holding a warm heart, and the love of this double arrow has been followed by fans for so many years.
“音乐传递的力量”用音乐在一代人的青春里印下符号，优质偶像这个称号林俊杰和孙燕姿可以说当之无愧。
"The power of music transmission" with music in a generation of youth printed symbols, the title of quality idols Lin Junjie and Sun Yanzi can be said to be worthy.
作为歌手，林俊杰也曾数度面对事业的低谷，他对此说过：“向上帝祷告，把重担交给上帝，信仰就是我最大的力量。
As a singer, Lin Junjie has faced the lowest ebb of his career several times. He said, "Pray to God and give the burden to God. Faith is my greatest strength.
”这份信仰在林俊杰身上是带有神圣色彩的，当他再通过音乐传达给听众和社会时则成为勉励大众对困难和艰辛的不屈奋斗的精神力量。
This belief, which is sacred to Lin Junjie, became a spiritual force encouraging people to struggle against hardship and hardship when he communicated to his audience and society through music.
没有炒作，没有绯闻。
No hype, no gossip.
孙燕姿在华语乐坛的“长青”是用作品换来的。
Sun Yanzi's "Evergreen" in Chinese music was bought with her works.
九十年代末新世纪初，在时代与新潮流相碰撞的境遇下，充满张力和生命力的音乐弥足珍贵。
At the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the new century, the music full of tension and vitality is precious.
而孙燕姿，正是凭借着独特的声线和朝气蓬勃的姿态走出了自己的风格。
And Sun Yanzi, with a unique voice and vibrant posture out of their own style.
《逆光》这首歌里写到：“我不要困难把我们挤散／面对希望，逆着光，感觉爱存在的地方。
"I don't want to squeeze us out / face hope, against the light, to feel where love is," wrote the song.
”这不仅仅是形容爱情，世间之事大都如此。
"It's not just about love; it's about everything in the world.
众多脍炙人口、流传经典的歌曲，折射的是人生态度。
Many of the well-known, classic songs, refraction is the attitude to life.
浅吟低唱，让音乐传递的力量透过阴霾，拨云见日。
Sing in a low voice, let the power of music transmission through the haze, clear the sky.
为什么在公共资源竞争激烈的当下，林俊杰和孙燕姿这首新歌仍能掀起转发50w+，MV播放量5000w+的涟漪呢？往大层面看，这份音乐人对社会大众的情怀和精神是华语音乐最宝贵的内核之一。
Why are Lin Junjie and Sun Yanzi still able to set off the ripples of 50w + and 5000w + in the face of intense competition for public resources? On a larger scale, this musician's affection and spirit towards the public is one of the most valuable cores of Chinese music.
1986年，罗大佑等一众歌手为效仿《We are the word》形式推出了影响数代人回忆的公益大合唱《明天会更好》；2003年非典期间，陶喆、王力宏等当时的新一代歌手又齐心唱出了动人的《手牵手》，而如今林俊杰和孙燕姿一首《STAY WITH YOU》再次唤起听众对华语音乐正面能量的记忆：坚信苦难终将过去，我们一起相伴，这是属于华语音乐人和受众的共同信仰。
In 1986, David Luo and other singers imitated We are the Word by launching a multi-generation public service chorus, Tomorrow Will be Better. During SARS in 2003, David Tao and Wang Lihong sang touching "Hand in Hand." Now Lin Junjie and Sun Yanzi sing "STAY WITH YOU" to remind listeners of the positive energy of Chinese music.
公众人物的影响力与传播度巨大，其一言一行都在潜移默化地作用于大众。
The influence and dissemination of public figures is huge, their words and deeds are subtly affected by the public.
公众人物的发声是鼓舞，是一针能量剂。
A public figure's voice is an inspiration, an energy booster.
这首歌就是雪中的那点炭，也许微不足道，可无法否认它星星点点的火热。
This song is the little bit of charcoal in the snow, perhaps insignificant, but it can not be denied that it is a little bit hot.
自新型冠状病毒肺炎的疫情发生以来，看着实时数据上不断跳动上涨的一个个冰冷数字，人们似乎渐渐感到麻木。
Since the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia, people seem to be growing numb as they look at the cold numbers bouncing up and down the real-time data.
但当新歌发布后，有网友说，听见JJ那句“长长的黑夜它到底还暗淡多久”幽幽地传送至耳边，瞬间泪目。
But when the new song released, some netizens said, heard the JJ sentence "the long night it is still dim how long" quietly teleported to the ear, instant tears.
千言万语化成一句stay with you，联结的是无数不顾自身安危冲锋在第一线的医护工作者们，联结的是积聚力量协调物资运送的志愿者们，联结的是为了保持社会正常运转而牺牲小我的服务者们，联结的是无数抱着手机时刻刷疫情动态的屏幕前的每一个你。
A thousand words turn into a day with you, connecting countless health-care workers at the front of their own lives, volunteers who amass forces to coordinate the delivery of supplies, service providers who sacrifice the ego to keep society functioning, and each of you in front of a myriad of screens holding the mobile phone constantly to brush the epidemic.
每一个小小的我们，都紧紧站在一起，纵使天大的难关，我们都携手共渡。
Each of us, all tight together, even if the big difficulties, we all work together to share.
就像mv末尾出现的那副海报：“没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱”，最冷的天终会离去，We’ll stay with you。
Like the poster that appeared at the end of mv: "There is no imprisoned city, only love that never leaves," the coldest day will finally leave.
（MV解读 图源：微博用户@吸小瓜）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
: www.youtheme.cnyeongnyeongnyeongnyeongnyeonfriend circle: newmedia @ nbweekly.com, if you would like authorization, please send it to newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
林俊杰、孙燕姿为疫情写歌：没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱。
Lin Junjie, Sun Yanzi wrote songs for the epidemic: there is no imprisoned city, only do not leave love.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "林俊杰、孙燕姿为疫情写歌：没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Lin Junjie, and Sun Yanzi have written about the epidemic: There's no city imprisoned, only love and quot; that never left.
var msg_desc = "没有被禁锢的城，只有不离开的爱。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no imprisoned city but love that never leaves.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
