抗击过非典的护士长，来了武汉。
The head nurse who fought SARS came to Wuhan.
故事FM                      。
Story FM.
故事FM。
Story FM.
欢迎收听故事FM。
Welcome to Story FM.
在这里，我们用你的声音，讲述你的故事。
Here, we tell your story in your voice.
每周一、三、五，各平台同步更新。
The platforms are updated simultaneously on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.
。
.
文/六筒李岩半年前刚去过武汉，和家人去旅游，主要想看看黄鹤楼。
Li Yan had just been to Wuhan six months ago and went on a trip with his family, mainly to see the Yellow Crane Tower.
那还是夏天，热气蒸得人头上冒烟。
It was summer, and the heat steamed smoke from the head.
高温挡不住蜂拥的游客，摩肩接踵，拥塞的车辆在大道上艰难挪动。
The heat can't hold back the crowds of tourists, jostling by each other and jammed traffic on the boulevard.
“真是个大都市”，她想。
"It's a big city," she thought.
李岩是河北医科大学第二医院呼吸与危重症二科护士长，从医二十年，非典时就上过前线。
Li Yan is the second hospital in Hebei Medical University Respiratory and Critical Diseases II head nurse, from 20 years of medical treatment, SARS has been on the front line.
今年大年初二晚，她坐着火车，和同事们千里驰援武汉。
This year's New Year's Eve, she took the train, and colleagues thousands of miles to help Wuhan.
这一次，武汉的街上空空荡荡，车也没几辆了，只见着警察、清洁工和医护人员。
This time, the streets of Wuhan are empty, there are few cars, only the police, cleaners and medical personnel.
刚开始他们还称赞城市的防护意识好，但日日如此，心底免不了生出些悲凉。
At first they praised the city for its sense of protection, but every day it brought with it some sadness.
随着新冠疫情越发严重，来自全国各地的医疗团队赶往武汉，仅河北就派出735人。
As the new crown became more serious, medical teams from across the country rushed to Wuhan, sending 735 people from Hebei alone.
李岩是第一批去的，大家都是自愿报名，一天之内就集结了150名医护人员。
Li Yan was one of the first to go, and everyone signed up voluntarily, assembling 150 medical workers in a single day.
她并没觉得害怕，毕竟曾经上过非典的战场，但她告诉我，这次的疫情让她感触更深。
She was not afraid, after all, had been on the battlefield of SARS, but she told me that she felt the epidemic more deeply.
武汉冬天阴冷，为了防止交叉感染，医院不能开中央空调。
Wuhan cold winter, in order to prevent cross-infection, the hospital can not open the central air conditioning.
医护人员只能往防护服里塞贴身衣服，后方紧急协调了保暖内衣，还有爱心人士捐了许多秋衣秋裤。
Medical staff had to put clothes in protective clothing, emergency coordination of warm underwear, and caring people donated a lot of autumn clothes autumn trousers.
但白天出了太阳，忙活起来秋衣裤又湿透了。
But during the day out of the sun, busy up autumn clothes and trousers drenched.
年轻的女护士们剪下了长发，有的甚至理成了光头——“是个非常漂亮的小姑娘”，一位护士告诉我。
Young nurses cut their long hair, some even shaved their heads - "a very pretty little girl," a nurse told me.
在他们身后，还有无数人用自己的方式支撑这场战役。
Behind them, there were countless others who supported the battle in their own way.
就在前天，有两个武汉人开车过去，从车上卸下150箱牛奶，说是捐给医疗队的，没留下名字就走了；还有送苹果的、送蜂蜜的、送新鲜蔬菜的。
Just the day before yesterday, two Wuhan people drove over and unloaded 150 boxes of milk from the car, which they said had been donated to the medical team. They also sent apples, honey and fresh vegetables.
这让他们很感动。
It moved them very much.
李岩有点后悔告诉父母自己去武汉了。
Li Yan regretted telling his parents that he had gone to Wuhan.
老人家担心，每天晚上都等她一个报平安的电话。
The old man was afraid to wait for a safe phone call every night.
虽然有些不妥，但她的一位同事瞒住了父母，偶尔打个电话，只说“单位特别忙，加班”，就匆匆挂了。
Although a little inappropriate, but one of her colleagues hid his parents, occasionally called, saying "the work unit is particularly busy, overtime," and hurried to hang up.
以下是李岩的口述：一、我去年暑假来武汉旅游，去看黄鹤楼，车水马龙的。
I visited Wuhan last summer vacation. I went to see the Yellow Crane Tower.
前些天再来这儿，整个街上都是那么萧条，觉得心里特别难受。
When I came here the other day, the whole street was in such low spirits that it was very hard.
我们支援的是武汉市第七医院，我们来的时候，这里的医护人员已经很疲惫，很疲惫了。
We are supporting Wuhan seventh hospital, when we came here, the medical staff was very tired, very tired.
我看他们的排班，就是每天都有班，白天晚上连轴转。
I think their schedule is that there are shifts every day, day and night rotation.
他们应该是在22号接到的通知，医院被列为定点医院，在这之前，他们是一个相当于二级的社区医院。
They were supposed to have been notified on the 22nd that the hospital was classified as a designated hospital, prior to that they were a level II community hospital.
很快中南医院来帮他们改造，分区分带，分污染区、清洁区，反应很迅速，改造之后，很快就成立了四个病区。
Soon the South China Hospital came to help them with the transformation, zoning, decontamination and cleaning areas. They responded quickly and soon after the renovation, four disease areas were set up.
病房成立之前，他们就一直在连轴上班了，真的很辛苦。
Before the establishment of the ward, they had been working on the shaft, it was really hard.
我们来了后，我就和他们说，我们的护士先上，你们休息一下。
When we arrived, I told them that our nurses would go first and you would have a rest.
我在的这个病区，一共48张床，我们的护士14个人，他们的护士是9个人，一共23个。
There are 48 beds, 14 nurses in this sick area, and 9 nurses, 23 in all.
有个孩子，那天她本来应该前半夜11点就下班的，第二天早上6点钟再去协助科室完成一些采血工作。
There was a child who was supposed to be off duty at 11 a. m. that day, and who was supposed to help with some blood collection the next morning at 6: 00 a.m.
结果到了早上8点，我一到病区里头，护士告诉我，她一晚上没回去。
As a result, at 8 a.m., as soon as I got into the ward, the nurse told me that she had not been back all night.
因为太忙了，那天晚上一直在抢救病人。
I was too busy to save the patient that night.
第二天她还要上夜班，我说调一下吧。
The next day she had to work the night shift, so I'll talk about it.
这个孩子说不用调，一调，所有人的班次都会动，就会打乱，我们就要重新排班。
The boy said that without a tune, everyone's shift would move, it would be disrupted, and we would have to reschedule.
她说“没事，我咬咬牙就能过来，放心，我没事”。
She said "nothing, I gnash teeth can come over, rest assured, I am all right."
我们住在医院旁边的一家酒店里，里面全是医护人员。
We stayed in a hotel next to the hospital, which was full of paramedics.
为了防止交叉传染，每个人都住单间。
In order to prevent cross-infection, everyone lives in a single room.
老板照顾我们北方人，还准备了很多馒头、面条。
The boss took care of our northerners and prepared many steamed bread and noodles.
午餐在医院吃的，都是志愿者或者美团小哥送的爱心餐，吃住都没问题。
Lunch in the hospital to eat, are volunteers or small group of boys to send a loving meal, food and accommodation are no problem.
我们每天早上8点钟上班，7点20有班车来接，也都是志愿者。
We go to work at 8 o'clock every morning, and there is a bus to pick us up at 7: 20.
早上到了医院开始分组交班。
I arrived at the hospital in the morning and began to shift.
去看每个病人情况时，我们会给他打招呼，让他们能感觉到我们在关注着他。
When we see each patient, we say hello and let them know we're watching him.
交完班之后，我会把护士们聚集到护理站这儿，打打气，说新的一天又开始了，大家加油！加油！让大家喊一下加油，能释放一下情绪。
After the shift, I would gather the nurses at the nursing home to cheer up and say that a new day had begun. Come on, everybody! Let's cheer up and let go.
毕竟穿上这身衣服，看见病人后，多少还是有压力的。
After all, wear this dress, see the patient, or how much pressure.
防护服穿着确实难受，穿脱都得十几分钟吧。
Wear protective clothing really uncomfortable, wear it takes ten minutes.
先穿自己的工装，完了后就是一层蓝色的隔离服，再是防护服。
First wear their own overalls, after the end of a blue layer of isolation clothing, and then protective clothing.
习惯了还好，但肯定每天出汗。
I'm used to it, but I must sweat every day.
我防护服里套着保暖秋衣，防护服不透气，所以每天都是湿的。
My suit was warm and autumn, and it was airtight, so it was wet every day.
现在一个护士要管8个病人，真的很忙碌。
Now a nurse has eight patients to attend to. It's really busy.
我们的工作中生活照护比较多，因为病人没有家属陪护，什么事情都要管；重病人也多，不少病人下不了床。
Our work life care is more, because the patient has no family to accompany, everything must be taken care of; serious illness also many people, many patients can not get out of bed.
我们帮他们打开水、送饭，带他们去做检查。
We help them open water, deliver food, and take them for tests.
收拾病房是每天必须要做的，包括早起的病床整理，包括病人的大小便，尤其是在床上解大便的。
Cleaning up the ward is a daily necessity, including getting up the bed to clean up, including the patient's defecation, especially in bed.
有一个腹泻的病人，我们一天给他擦洗了5次，这些清洁工作一直都要做。
There was a case of diarrhea, and we scrubbed him five times a day, and the cleaning was done all the time.
我们现在既是护士，又是家属，是护工，还是保洁员。
We are now nurses, family members, caregivers, and cleaners.
有个护士连轴转，一晚上抢救两个病人，抢救完一个病人，另一个病人突然又不好了。
One nurse whirled around, rescuing two patients overnight, rescuing one patient, and the other suddenly failing.
抢救完后，她突然坐到地上大哭。
After the rescue, she suddenly sat on the ground and cried.
哭完了擦擦眼睛，又继续干活了。
After crying, I wiped my eyes and went back to work.
后来医院找了个心理老师，给她开导了一下，就好很多了。
Later the hospital found a psychological teacher, to enlighten her a bit, just a lot better.
处在这个压力下，想喊就喊出来，想哭就哭出来，因为人要释放压力。
Under this pressure, want to cry out, cry out, because people want to release pressure.
现在情况好多了，特别是方舱医院开了之后，一些轻症病人被分流出去了。
Things are much better now, especially after the cabin hospital opened, and some light patients were shunned.
我们现在一个班次三到四小时，中午休息一小时。
We now have three to four hours a shift and an hour's rest at noon.
休息时，要喝一杯水，不敢多喝，但是一定得喝一口。
Rest, to drink a glass of water, do not dare to drink, but must drink a mouthful.
因为我们都穿着防护服，出汗多，大家说话声音会很大。
Because we all wear protective clothing, sweat a lot, everyone will speak loudly.
这时大家很少唠嗑，就看看手机，或者闭会儿目，养会儿神，马上就要接班了。
At this time, people very little nagging, just look at the mobile phone, or to close the eyes, raise God, soon to take over.
二、我是2000年参加的工作，今年就要满20年了。
I joined the work in 2000 and will be twenty years old this year.
工作没几年就遇上非典，当时我们医院成立了非典病房，第一批我就去了。
I met SARS within a few years of working, when my hospital set up the SARS ward and I went there the first time.
当时我很年轻，一开始主任没让我去，我就去和主任要求。
At that time I was very young, at first the director did not let me go, I went to ask the director.
我当时刚结婚，老人不在身边，也没有孩子，爱人在部队上。
I was just married, the old man wasn't around, I had no children, I loved him in the army.
主任问我，你想好了？我说我想好了。
The director asked me, You think so? I said I had it.
这次支援武汉，我是初一晚上十一点五十接到主任电话的，当时我已经睡着了。
This time to support Wuhan, I was the first night of junior high school at 11: 50 received a call from the director, when I was already asleep.
她说要成立应急队，让我考虑一下，问科里人谁去。
She said she was going to set up an emergency team, let me think about it, and ask the koreans who's going.
这么晚了，不可能叫别人，我说我去吧，我毕竟是科里护士长，就这么决定了。
It's impossible to call anyone at this late hour. I say I'll go. After all, I'm Master Corey. That's it.
到了第二天她才告诉我，咱俩一起去，我没想到她也主动要求过来。
She didn't tell me until the next day that we were going together, and I didn't expect her to come.
我跟我爱人和孩子在两地生活。
I live in two places with my wife and children.
他每年也就春节带着孩子才回来。
He comes back with his children every Spring Festival.
今年是大年二十四到的家。
This year is the twenty-fourth home.
大年三十那天，我在医院值夜班，初一紧接着又在科室值白班，年夜饭都没跟孩子一块儿吃。
On New Year's Day, I was on night shift in the hospital, immediately after the first day of junior high school value day shift, dinner with the children did not eat.
初一下班，回去补了个年夜饭，晚上就接了这个电话。
On the first day of junior high school, back to make up a New Year's dinner, evening took the phone.
他们刚回来，我就走了。
No sooner had they returned than I left.
我觉得也挺对不起孩子。
I think I'm sorry for the kids.
我爱人说你该去就去吧，你又是护士长，又参加过非典，你想去，我不拦着，去吧。
My wife said you should go, you are the head nurse, and participated in SARS, you want to go, I do not stop, go.
大年初二出发了，初三凌晨三点多到的。
New Year's Day set out, three in the morning more than arrived.
我孩子今年15岁，上高一。
My child is 15 years old and is a sophomore.
决定要去时他已经睡了，后来才告诉他。
He went to bed when he decided to go, but he didn't tell him until later.
男孩子嘛，大了，我就说这是妈妈的工作，妈妈得过去，等妈妈回来再给你做饭，再好好照顾你。
Boys, big, I said that this is the mother's job, mother had to go, when your mother came back to cook for you, then take good care of you.
他也没有吭气。
He did not hold his tongue.
有些事情我得让他知道，男孩子就得有担当。
There's something I have to let him know. Boys have to take responsibility.
我干这个工作，我就得去。
I'll have to go if I do the work.
我想孩子心里是有感触的。
I think there's something in the kid's heart.
他虽然没跟我说什么，但我看到他转发（有关各地医生驰援湖北的）朋友圈，他说我妈妈就是这其中之一，我为我妈妈自豪。
He didn't tell me anything, but I saw him relay a circle of friends [about doctors helping Hubei] and he said my mother was one of them, and I was proud of my mother.
他只要觉得妈妈做的是对的，我就很心安。
I was happy when he thought my mother had done the right thing.
来武汉后，我每天都会给家人打电话，包括我的父母。
After I came to Wuhan, I called my family every day, including my parents.
我知道他们会很担心，毕竟我到疫情最严重的地方来了。
I know they'll be worried. After all, I've come to the worst of the epidemic.
如果一天不打电话，他们就睡不着觉，就会老等着。
If they don't call for a day, they won't sleep and they'll be waiting.
有一次因为开会，我没给他们视频。
Once I didn't give them a video because of a meeting.
那天都到晚上11点了，我妈给我打电话，她说她一直在等着我的电话。
It was 11 p. m., and my mom called me and she said she was waiting for my call.
我就觉得非常对不起他们，这么晚了还这么惦记着。
I feel very sorry for them, so late to remember.
之后每次下了班，我第一时间就会先给他们说一句：今天下班了，没事，挺好的，放心吧。
After every shift, I will give them the first time to say: today off work, nothing, very good, rest easy.
三、对病人来说，最重要的要有信心。
To the patient, the most important thing is to have confidence.
你内心要强大，想着我能战胜它，那就有80%的可能了。
You have to be strong inside, think I can beat it, and that's 80% possible.
我们一直在给病人鼓劲，走到哪个床上我们都会给他竖起大拇指，“你今天好多了”，我们经常会给他们这种暗示。
We've been encouraging patients to give them thumbs-up whenever we go to bed. "You're much better today," we often give them that hint.
我们医院有个阿姨，前几天突然间病情重了，要上呼吸机。
Our hospital has an aunt, the other day suddenly serious illness, must be on the ventilator.
上了呼吸机她不耐受，特别憋得慌。
When she got on the ventilator she couldn't stand it, she was pissed off.
人越烦燥就越耗氧，就想往下扒面罩，我们看她确实很痛苦。
The more irritated people are, the more oxygen they consume, just want to lower the mask, we see that she is really very painful.
我问阿姨，你想不想活下去？她说我想，可是戴上这个很憋得慌啊。
I asked my aunt, would you like to live? She said I thought, but I can't hold my breath.
我说我陪着你，你安静下来，自个儿心里默默数，慢慢把呼吸频率降下来。
I said I accompany you, you calm down, silently counting their own hearts, slowly down the frequency of breathing.
过了两天，阿姨就往好转的方向，血氧饱和度从70多升到了89，呼吸频率也从40多到了20多。
After two days, aunt will be in the direction of improvement, blood oxygen saturation from more than 70 to 89, breathing frequency from more than 40 to more than 20.
她一直在冲我们竖大拇指。
She keeps giving us thumbs up.
她带着面罩，一直想说话。
She wore a mask and tried to speak.
正好一个中南的大夫过来了，他对阿姨说，你记住她，她是河北队的护士长，她特别关心你，你一定要记住她。
Just a doctor in the middle south came by, he said to his aunt, you remember her, she is the head nurse of Hebei team, she cares about you very much, you must remember her.
阿姨明显好转了，她说等我出院后，要给你们送锦旗。
Aunt obviously improved, she said when I left hospital, to give you a banner.
我说你肯定能出院，我们等着。
I said you'd be discharged. We'll wait.
不过我们河北太远了，要送锦旗就送到中南医院去吧。
But our Hebei too far, to send the flag to the South China Hospital to go.
现在情况改观了很多，急诊也没那么多人了。
Things have changed a lot, and there are fewer emergency cases.
方舱医院开了好几家后，收治了这么多病人，我们这里现在一般收治的是重症些的患者。
After several sessions at the Fang Cavern Hospital, where so many patients were admitted, we now generally treat patients with more serious illnesses.
武汉的医护人员也让我很感动，他们从来不喊累。
Wuhan medical personnel also let me very moved, they never tired.
都是地道的武汉人，在保护自己的家园。
Are authentic Wuhan people, in the protection of their homes.
我对那个连着上夜班的护士说，丫头，你真是武汉人的骄傲。
I said to the nurse who was on the night shift, girl, you are the pride of Wuhan people.
她都不好意思了。
She's so embarrassed.
可能她心里头就憋着那股劲，要干到什么程度，一定要挽救她的病人。
Perhaps her heart was suffocating as to how far she would go to save her patient.
这都是她的家人，她的家乡。
This is her family, her hometown.
信心还是要有的！我觉得会越来越好的！等到疫情结束了，所有的地方都解除封锁了，我想回家照全家福。
Confidence is still there! I think it will get better and better! When the epidemic is over and the blockade is lifted, I want to go home and take a picture of my family.
之前从来没有想过，不知道今年是怎么回事儿，已经跟我爸妈、公公婆婆还有大姑姐都约好了要照全家福的，但是现在计划泡汤了。
Never thought before, do not know what happened this year, and my parents, mother-in-law and great-aunt have all made plans to take the family photo, but now the plan is ruined.
等疫情过去了，我爱人和孩子假期回来时，我们一定要去照一张全家福！——————为了致敬像李岩这样的一线援鄂医护人员，1月26日，美团公益基金会宣布捐赠2亿元人民币。
When the epidemic is over and my wife and children come back from vacation, we must take a picture of the whole family.To honor medical professionals like Li Yan, on January 26, the US Mission Public Welfare Foundation announced a donation of 200 million yuan.
截至2月19日，美团公益基金会已完成对山西、江西、安徽、江苏、河北、贵州、重庆、黑龙江、辽宁、上海、甘肃、宁夏、陕西13省区市援鄂医疗队的定向捐赠——对已派出的4299位成员账户发放5000元慰问金。
As of February 19, the USF has completed targeted donations to medical teams in 13 provinces and municipalities in Shanxi, Jiangxi, Anhui, Jiangsu, Hebei, Guizhou, Chongqing, Heilongjiang, Liaoning, Shanghai, Gansu, Ningxia and Shaanxi.
此外，河南、湖南、广东、福建等省也在同步推进中。
In addition, Henan, Hunan, Guangdong, Fujian and other provinces are also advancing simultaneously.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗击过非典的护士长，来了武汉。
The head nurse who fought SARS came to Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "故事FM";。
Var nickname = & quot; Story FM & quot;;;
var msg_title = "抗击过非典的护士长，来了武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; head nurse who fought SARS at & quot; & quot; at Wuhan & quot;;
var msg_desc = "最重要的是要有信心";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="故事FM";。
Var title = & quot; Story FM & quot;;
