守护“新冠孕妇”。
Guardian of the New Crown Pregnant Women.
刘以秦 等。
Liu Yiqin and so on.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
她们是疫情中心湖北的待产准妈妈，其中有疑似或确诊的新冠病毒感染者。
They are expectant mothers in Hubei, the epicentre of the epidemic, who are suspected or diagnosed with the new crown virus.
对于医生护士来说，无论是守护孕妇，还是保护即将降生的新生儿，都是巨大挑战摄影/本刊记者 王小刘以秦 王博 房宫一柳 | 文 马克 | 编辑自2月14日起，湖北孝感孕妇孙珊持续发烧，她已经怀孕4个半月，跑了四家医院，都将她拒之门外，至今未能得到救治。
Photo / print journalist Wang Xiaoqin has had a persistent fever since February 14. Sun Shan, a pregnant woman who has been pregnant for four and a half months and has been in four hospitals, has been denied treatment.
不仅是这些疑似感染孕妇，新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，还有大量孕妇无法出门，也找不到医院做产检，一些临产的孕妇甚至找不到床位生产。
In addition to these suspected pregnant women, since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak, a large number of pregnant women have been unable to leave their homes or find hospitals for check-ups, and some expectant mothers have been unable to find beds to give birth.
孕妇是特殊的群体。
Pregnant women are a special group.
新冠肺炎的确诊和治疗需要配合CT检查，由于担心辐射，孕妇会尽量避免CT检查，此外，孕妇身体情况相较普通人更为敏感复杂。
The diagnosis and treatment of Newly Coronary Pneumonia requires a CT scan, which is avoided because of concerns about radiation, and the physical condition of pregnant women is more sensitive and complex than that of the general population.
截至2月22日下午1点，全国共计累计确诊新冠肺炎患者76394例，湖北省确诊63454例，武汉市确诊45660例，湖北省，尤其是武汉及周边城市，医疗系统已经超负荷运转。
By 1 p.m. on February 22, a total of 76,394 cases of new crown pneumonia had been diagnosed nationwide, 63,454 cases had been diagnosed in Hubei Province, and 45,660 cases had been diagnosed in Wuhan city.
疫情来势汹汹，大量医护人员疲于奔命，一位武汉市中心医院的一线医生告诉《财经》记者，目前所有的精力都放在收治确诊病人上，至今仍未有非常有效的治疗方案，针对感染的孕妇患者，也没有更多的精力去专门救治。
A front-line doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing that all efforts are being made to treat patients who have been diagnosed. There is still no effective treatment and there is no more energy devoted to treating infected pregnant women.
“我能等，宝宝不能等”2月14日，孙珊高烧39度，当天她去了孝感市的四家医院，分别是航天医院、孝感市一医院、孝感市中心医院和市妇幼医院，四家医院告知均不接收发热孕妇。
"I can wait, the baby can not wait," February 14, Sun Shan high fever 39 degrees, that day, she went to Xiaogan City four hospitals, namely, astronautics hospital, Xiaoyan City a hospital, Xiaoyan City Central Hospital and City Women and Children Hospital, four hospitals advised not to accept pregnant women with fever.
当天她被防疫站送到一个由企业员工宿舍改造的隔离区，并未做任何检查和治疗。
On the same day, she was taken to a quarantine facility that had been converted from the enterprise's staff quarters without any inspection or treatment.
她给自己做了物理降温措施，2月15日，体温下降到37.3度。
She took steps to cool herself physically, and her body temperature dropped to 37.3 degrees on February 15.
随后，她和家人与防疫站和医院多次沟通，最终在孝感市一医院做了血液检查。
Subsequently, she and her family and the prevention of epidemic stations and hospitals many times, and finally in Xiaogan City a hospital blood tests.
她希望可以做核酸检查来排除感染，但被告知，必须先做CT，才能安排核酸，如果要做CT，需要签告知书。
She wanted to have a nucleic acid test to rule out the infection, but was told that CT must be done before nucleic acids could be arranged and, if CT was to be done, a notice was needed.
由于担心CT检查会影响胎儿，孙珊拒绝接受。
Fearing that a CT scan might affect the fetus, Sun refused.
但如果不能排除是否感染新冠肺炎，医院也无法给出任何治疗方案。
But hospitals cannot offer any treatment if they cannot rule out a new crown pneumonia.
截至目前，孙珊一直在家隔离。
So far, Sun Shan has been isolated at home.
1月31日，怀孕8个月的武汉市江夏区孕妇王媛媛（化名）发烧已经8天，肺部有感染，去了江夏中医院、江夏区妇幼、人民医院、武汉妇幼、中南医院和武汉市一医院共6家医院，都未被接收。
On January 31, Liu Yuanyuan, a pregnant woman in Jiangxia Hui Autonomous Region of Wuhan City, eight months pregnant, had a fever for eight days and her lungs were infected. She went to a total of six hospitals, including Jiangxia Hospital, Jiangxia District, People's Hospital, Wuhan Women and Children, Zhongnan Hospital and Wuhan City Hospital.
由于回家时村口封路，只能住在车上。
The village had to stay in the car because it was sealed off at the entrance.
她和家人拨打了110、120、市场热线等求助电话，也没能解决问题。
She and her family made 110 and 120 calls to help out, including the market hotline, which also failed to solve the problem.
“定点医院发热门诊不收孕妇，妇产科又不收发热的。
"Point hospital fever clinic does not accept pregnant women, gynecology and obstetrics and gynecology do not charge fever.
”王媛媛的哥哥告诉《财经》记者。
Liu Yuanyuan's brother told Caijing.
哥哥将王媛媛的情况发布在社交网络上，引起了社区工作人员的关注，社区也安排了车辆和志愿者司机，带着王媛媛继续去与医院沟通，包括中南医院与湖北省人民医院东院区，都未被接收。
Liu Yuanyuan, who was posted on social networking sites to draw the attention of community workers, arranged vehicles and volunteer drivers, and sent Liu Yuanyuan to communicate with hospitals, including Zhongnan Hospital and Hubei Provincial People's Hospital East Campus, which were not accepted.
1月31日晚上，王媛媛出现呼吸困难。
On the night of January 31, Liu Yuanyuan experienced difficulty breathing.
2月1日上午，她哥哥告诉《财经》记者，社区工作人员的帮助下，已经住进了湖北省人民医院东院区。
On the morning of February 1, her brother told Caijing that with the help of community workers, he had been admitted to the eastern courtyard of Hubei Provincial People's Hospital.
对于一些已经接近生产的孕妇来说，有医院愿意接收才是第一步。
For some pregnant women who are close to giving birth, having a hospital willing to accept is the first step.
疫情期间，所有新冠肺炎以外的患者入院时，都需要在过渡区接受2次核酸检测和CT排查，确认没有感染后会转去相应科室，如果有感染的情况，则会被安排在隔离病房进行救治。
During the outbreak, all patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia were required to undergo two nucleic acid tests and CT scans in the transition area to confirm that they were not infected and, if infected, were referred to the isolation ward for treatment.
核酸检测的结果需要等待24小时，“我能等，宝宝不能等。
The result of a nucleic acid test is a 24-hour wait. "I can wait. The baby can't wait.
”一位武汉孕妇对《财经》记者说，她在人民医院过渡区等了2天，做了一次核酸和CT，最终见到了产科大夫，产科大夫表示要立即进行剖腹产，医院马上加急给她做了第二次核酸，确认阴性后，立刻送入手术室。
A pregnant woman in Wuhan told Caijing that she had waited two days in the transition area of the People's Hospital for nucleic acid and CT scan and finally met with a obstetrician who said she needed an immediate cesarean section.
没有家人陪同的生产疫情对于孕妇来说是一次莫大的挑战，对于医护人员来说也是难题不断。
Unaccompanied births are a major challenge for pregnant women and a continuing challenge for health-care providers.
“不能聊了，马上又有三个新冠孕妇入住。
"I can't talk anymore. There will be three new crowns coming in soon.
”晚上10点30，李玉（化名）又全副武装的进了隔离区，上午他刚刚为一个疑似新冠孕妇做了剖宫产手术，下午又收治了两个孕妇，深夜又有新的任务，他还不能离开隔离区。
At 10: 30 p. m., Li Yu (not his real name) entered the quarantine zone, where he had a Caesarean section in the morning, two more pregnant women in the afternoon and a late-night assignment and was unable to leave the colony.
李玉是湖北省鄂州市鄂钢医院的一名妇产科医生，鄂钢医院是鄂州市唯一接诊新冠病毒疑似和确诊孕妇的定点医院，也是鄂州市收治新冠病人最多的四家医院中唯一的民营医院。
Li Yu is an obstetrician-gynecologist at the Huizhou-Huizhou Hubei Steel Hospital, which is the only designated hospital in Huzhou for treating suspected and confirmed pregnant women, and the only one of the four hospitals receiving the largest number of new crowns in Huzhou.
这家三级乙等综合性医院始建于1958年，原鄂城钢铁厂职工医院，2016年被海南海药全资收购，从公立改为民营。
Established in 1958, the tertiary B general hospital, formerly known as the Echeng Iron and Steel Works Staff Hospital, was wholly owned by Hainan Pharmaceutical Company in 2016.
和所有湖北抗疫医院一样，鄂钢医院缺防护服、缺专业医生、护士，而定点收治新冠孕妇，又让这家医院的妇产科面临更大压力。
As with all Hubei anti-epidemic hospitals, the Hubei Steel Hospital is short of protective clothing, professional doctors, nurses, and targeted treatment of newly crown pregnant women, this hospital obstetrics and gynecology under increased pressure.
“鄂钢医院接诊孕妇暂无准确数据，每天都在变。
"There is no accurate data on pregnant women admitted to Huangang Hospital, which changes every day.
但是哪怕只有一个新冠孕妇，也需要两个医生、两个护士，全副武装，隔天轮换24小时班。
But even a single new-crown pregnant woman requires two doctors, two nurses, fully armed, and a 24-hour rotation every other day.
”李玉谈到。
"said Li Yu.
“妇产科严重缺人、缺防护措施、缺蓝光温箱和产床。
"Obstetrics and gynaecology suffer from severe shortages of personnel, protective measures, blue-light incubators and maternity beds.
”新冠孕妇中，有家庭聚集发病的情况，有的确诊或者疑似孕妇来到医院时，家属已经被隔离了。
"Newly crowned pregnant women have had family gatherings, and families have been quarantined by the time a woman is diagnosed or suspected of coming to the hospital.
这些孕妇无人陪同，从开住院证、缴费开始，直到生产，做月子，整个流程中家属能参与的环节，现在都需要医生、护士来承担。
Unaccompanied, these pregnant women, starting with the issuance of a hospitalization certificate, payment of fees, until childbirth, childbirth, the whole process of family participation, now need doctors, nurses to bear.
不管是疑似还是确诊的新冠产妇，新生儿都要被隔离照顾，以前一个护士可以照顾多个新生儿，但现在，疑似新生儿只能由一个护士专职照顾。
Newborn babies, whether they are suspected or diagnosed, are cared for in isolation. Previously, a nurse could take care of more than one newborn, but now it is suspected that a newborn can only be cared for by one nurse.
新冠孕妇的接产难度也在升高。
Newly crowned pregnant women are also having more difficult deliveries.
随着疫情发展，有的孕妇害怕在医院被传染，没有按时产检，有的孕妇感染了，因为封城，并没有及时就医，导致生产时出现很多隐患。
As the epidemic unfolded, some pregnant women feared infection in hospitals, missed regular check-ups, and some became infected because they did not seek medical attention in time for childbirth.
新冠孕妇生产时，由于没有家人陪同，需要护士穿好隔离服，寸步不离，随时监测孕妇胎心、宫口开大情况。
Newly crowned pregnant women give birth, because there is no family to accompany them, nurses need to wear isolation clothing, constant monitoring of pregnant women's fetal heart, uterine open large.
为了结省防护服，护士们严重超时工作。
The nurses worked long hours to get rid of the protective clothing.
由于护士紧缺，鄂钢医院有一名护士流产一周后就到岗了。
Due to the shortage of nurses, a nurse in Estec Hospital had a miscarriage a week later.
为了应急，鄂钢医院不得不把原有护士拆科，无论是心脑血管、儿科还是妇产科，通通重新编配，投入到抗疫一线。
In order to respond to the emergency, the Huangang Hospital had to break down the original nurses, whether cardio-cerebrovascular, paediatric or obstetrics and gynecology, re-allocation, into the first line of the epidemic.
鄂钢医院从1月20日就开始接诊新冠病人，早期发热门诊一个医生一上午就接诊二十多个病人，但医护人员感染率相对较低，只有一名临床护士被感染，很快治愈了。
Early fever clinic A doctor treated more than 20 patients in a single morning, but the infection rate among medical personnel was relatively low. Only one clinical nurse was infected and quickly cured.
但这没有什么可骄傲的。
But there is nothing to be proud of.
鄂钢医院物资供给处的刘岩（化名）对《财经》记者说，“战役还不知道要持续多长时间，我们也不知道能坚持多久。
"We don't know how long the campaign will last, and we don't know how long it will last," Liu Yan (not his real name) of the Huangang Hospital told Caijing.
”“哪怕只在隔离区待一分钟，出了隔离区也要更换防护服，护士们早上8点进隔离区，一般下午1点30分才能出来换岗。
"While in the area of separation for even one minute, protective clothing will be replaced when exiting it. Nurses enter the area of separation at 8 a.m. and usually come out at 1.30 p.m.
”刘岩说，医生用的防护服已经挺不过两天了，妇产科尤其严重。
Liu said doctors' protective clothing had lasted only two days, especially in obstetrics and gynecology.
“政府的资源更倾向于公立医院，但我们接诊的新冠病人目前在全市排前列，而且我们医院还要接收专科病人，如儿科、透析病人的定点治疗。
"The government's resources are more in the public sector, but we now have the highest number of new patients in the city and we have specialist patients, such as paediatricians and dialysis patients," he said.
”鄂钢医院也是当地收治新冠透析病人的唯一定点医院。
The company is also the only designated local hospital for new dialysis patients.
刘岩表示，前期防护物资都是医院自己采购的，卫计委拨付的完全不够，他理解全湖北的医疗物资都缺乏，但看着同事们冒着生命危险坚持在一线，仍然心焦，“只能持续跟领导反馈。
Liu Yan said that the initial protection material is the hospital's own procurement, the CPVP allocation is completely inadequate, he understood the lack of medical supplies throughout Hubei, but watched colleagues risk their lives persist in the line, still worried, "can only continue to feedback with the leadership.
”现在，鄂钢医院质量好的防护服留给进隔离区的医生、护士用，物资不够时，医生、护士们就用垃圾袋代替长筒鞋套，甚至是用平时居家的鞋套，没有防护帽子时，就用普通帽子顶一下。
Now, when the quality of the hospital's protective clothing is reserved for doctors and nurses entering the area of separation, doctors and nurses use garbage bags instead of long-barrelled shoes.
也有很多志愿者从世界各地向鄂钢医院运物资，但他们采购的防护服很多达不到一级防护标准标，只能放在仓库里。
There are also many volunteers who transport supplies from around the world to ESCO hospitals, but many of the protective clothing they buy does not meet the primary standard and can only be stored in warehouses.
此前鄂州红会给鄂钢医院分配了800套床上用品，但还是不够。
The Huizhou Red Society had previously allocated 800 bedding sets to the Huangang hospital, but that was not enough.
新冠病人的床单和口罩一样都是消耗品，以往，普通病人的床单被褥可以消毒清洗后循环利用，但新冠病人用过的只能焚烧。
Bedspreads for newly weaned patients are consumables, as are masks. In the past, bedspread bedding could be disinfected and cleaned for recycling, but patients with new crowns could only be burned.
2月11日，贵州省对口支援鄂州的337名医护人员到达。
On February 11, 337 medical personnel arrived in Guizhou province to provide assistance to Hubei province.
当时也有几名医生、护士被分配到鄂钢医院，但因为防护服不到位，也没有按照传染病医院的要求做好隔离，所以他们没有进入。
Several doctors and nurses were also assigned to the Er Gang Hospital, but they did not enter because protective clothing was not in place and was not segregated according to the requirements of the Hospital for Infectious Diseases.
“现在我们已经改造好了，希望他们能回来。
"Now we are reformed, and we hope they will come back.
”刘岩说。
"said Liu Yan.
他透露，2月19日鄂州卫计委的领导已到鄂钢医院商量对口援建事宜。
February 19, he revealed that the Huizhou Wei and Planning Commission leadership has been to the Esteel Hospital to discuss counterpart assistance matters.
截至发稿，鄂钢医院又接生了两名宝宝，新冠病毒并没有通过母体传染。
By the time of writing, two more babies had been delivered at the Huanghe Hospital and no mother-to-child transmission had taken place.
“宝宝守护计划”疫情期间，大部分武汉人都在家留守，郭迪晴也待在家里关注疫情进展，她想为疫情出一份力，但又无法出门。
"Babies Guardian Program" during the epidemic, most Wuhan people stay at home, Guo Diqing also stay at home to follow the progress of the epidemic, she wants to contribute to the epidemic, but can not go out.
她自己也是妈妈，想到孕妇妈妈们在疫情期间可能会遇到各种困难，她和几个包括育儿专家、心理专家在内的朋友组织了“宝宝守护计划”，为孕妇们提供线上支援。
As a mother herself, and mindful of the difficulties expectant mothers may encounter during the epidemic, she and several friends, including child-rearing experts and psychologists, have organized a "baby-sitting program" to provide online support to pregnant women.
一开始，微信群里的孕妇们都有各种各样的问题，包括情绪焦虑、产检困难、身体出状况等。
At first, pregnant women in the microphone group had a variety of problems, including emotional anxiety, difficulty in getting tested, and physical problems.
每天晚上8点左右，湖北省第三人民医院产科任主任会集中答问，此外，郭迪晴和其他30多位志愿者，每人负责7-8位孕妇，陪她们聊天，排解情绪。
At about 8 pm each evening, the director of obstetrics at the Third People's Hospital in Hubei Province will concentrate on answering questions. In addition, Guo and more than 30 other volunteers, each responsible for 7-8 pregnant women, accompany them to chat and relieve their emotions.
如何检查、就医、住院是问的最多的问题。
How to examine, seek medical treatment, hospitalization is the most asked questions.
疫情开始后，很多孕妇们定期做检查的医院都发来通知，让大家尽量少出门，少去医院，一些小的检查都暂停。
Since the outbreak began, many of the hospitals where pregnant women regularly check-up have sent notices, asking people to avoid going out as little as possible, to avoid hospitals and to suspend some minor examinations.
郭迪晴发现，孕妇们跑了多家医院都不被接收的问题比较常见，她们就帮忙整理了收治孕妇的医院名单，目前包括华中科技大学附属同济医院中法新城院区，华中科技大学附属协和医院西院，湖北省人民医院东院区，武汉大学中南医院，武汉市中心医院后湖院区。
Guo found it was common for expectant mothers to go to hospitals without being admitted, so they helped sort out the list of hospitals that admitted pregnant women, including Tongji Hospital, a hospital in Tongji, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Hubei Provincial People's Hospital, Wuhan University, Zhongnan Hospital, and Wuhan Central Hospital.
类似这样帮助孕妇的民间组织有很多，社区也在积极配合孕妇检查、住院等工作，包括安排出行车辆，帮忙联系医院等。
There are many non-governmental organizations that help pregnant women in this way, and the community is actively cooperating with pregnant women's examinations, hospitalizations, etc., including arranging travel vehicles and helping to contact hospitals.
政府也没有忽视孕妇群体，2月8日，湖北省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布通知，疫情期间，承担孕产保健服务的助产机构，要落实孕产妇产检及分娩，不得拒绝或推诿。
The government has not neglected the pregnant women.On February 8, the Hubei Provincial Command for the Prevention and Control of Newly Crowded Pneumonia issued a notice that midwifery institutions providing maternal health services should not refuse or shirk their duties during the epidemic.
各地医疗救治及防疫物资的分配上，要向妇幼保健机构倾斜。
All localities shall give preferential treatment to maternal and child health institutions in the distribution of medical treatment and epidemic prevention materials.
通知还要求各新冠病毒核酸检测机构对疑似孕产妇实行有限检测、尽快确诊。
Nucleic acid testing facilities are also required to carry out limited testing of suspected pregnant women and diagnose them as soon as possible.
各新冠肺炎救治定点医院要落实疑似和确诊孕产妇转诊绿色通道，确保优先转诊和治疗。
To ensure the priority of referral and treatment, the designated hospitals should implement the green passage for the suspected and confirmed pregnant women.
截至发稿，孙珊还未等到核酸检查，但通过血液检查已经基本排除了感染新冠肺炎的可能。
By the time of writing, Shan had not yet received a nucleic acid test, but a blood test had largely ruled out a new crown pneumonia.
2月22日中午12点，宝宝守护计划的微信群里，一位新爸爸发来了新生儿的照片，称母女平安，接下来，他们还需要面临购买尿不湿、奶粉等物资的难题，郭迪晴也在积极帮助大家寻找购买渠道，她说，“我们会一直陪伴大家直到疫情结束。
At 12: 00 noon on Feb. 22, a new father sent a photo of the baby, saying it was safe for the mother and the baby. Next, they had to face the challenge of buying things like urine, milk powder and so on. She said, "We will stay with you until the end of the epidemic.
”作者为《财经》记者责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
The writer is Caijing's reporter AT & # 124; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
守护“新冠孕妇”。
Guardian of the New Crown Pregnant Women.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "守护“新冠孕妇”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; guarding Newly crowned Pregnant Women;;
var msg_desc = "她们是疫情中心湖北的待产准妈妈，其中有疑似或确诊的新冠病毒感染者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they were expectant mothers at Hubei, the epizootic center, with suspected or confirmed cases of New Crown virus infection.
对于医生护士来说，无论是守护孕妇，还是保护即将降生的新生儿，都是巨大挑战";。
For doctors and nurses, guarding a pregnant woman or protecting a newborn baby has been a great challenge and challenge.
title: '祸从口入——起底野味“产业链”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '难产又难卖，苹果怎样熬过疫情期？',。
How did Apple survive the epidemic? & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '拯救武汉：实录封城后最艰难的三周',。
Saving Wuhan: The hardest three weeks & apos; & quot; at & quot; since sealing the city.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '武汉爱情故事',。
Wuhan love story & apos; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
