日本疫情蔓延，东京奥运会还能如期开吗？。
Japanese epidemic spread, the Tokyo Olympic Games can still be held on schedule?
王晓枫。
Wang Xiaofeng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
按照原计划，今年奥运圣火传递活动将在3月12日从希腊开始，3月26日来到日本，7月24日东京奥运会将开幕，这些安排会否受到影响，取决于日本政府对于疫情的控制2020年2月15日，东京奥运会圣火传递大使石原里美（右）在彩排中与临时担任“火炬手”的工作人员握手相互鼓励。
According to the original plan, this year's Olympic flame will start March 12 from Greece, March 26 to Japan, July 24 Tokyo Olympic Games opening, these arrangements will be affected, depending on the Government of Japan control of the outbreak of the Olympic Games on February 15, 2020, Tokyo Olympic torch relay Ambassador Ishihara (right) in rehearsal with temporary staff as "torch bearer" mutual encouragement.
当日，东京奥组委在日本东京都羽村市举行奥运会火炬接力彩排。
Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games held Olympic Torch Relay rehearsal in the Japanese city of Hanura, Tokyo.
照片中，远处的观众大多数都戴起了口罩。
In the photos, most of the distant audience wore masks.
图/新华文|《财经》记者 王晓枫 编辑|郝洲新冠疫情会影响东京奥运会吗？“我认为会。
Photo / Xinhua News & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”日本非营利组织医学治理研究所所长上昌广（Masahiro Kami）在回答《财经》记者问题时坦言情况不乐观。
Masahiro Kami, director of the Institute of Medical Governance, a non-profit group, told Caijing that the situation was not encouraging.
上昌广对新冠肺炎疫情在日本的快速传播深表担忧，他已经在《周刊文春》和《周刊新潮》等多家日本知名媒体发表文章批评日本政府当前的应对措施不力。
Shaochang has expressed deep concern about the rapid spread of the outbreak in Japan, and he has published articles in several well-known Japanese media, including the weekly magazine Wen Chun and Newsweek News Tide, criticizing the government's current response.
“大多数日本人都期待着奥运会的到来，但很难按计划举行。
"Most Japanese are looking forward to the Olympics, but it's very difficult to do so as planned.
除日本外，大多数国家都对参加东京奥运会有犹豫。
With the exception of Japan, most countries are hesitant to participate in the Tokyo Olympics.
”上昌广悲观地说。
'he said gloomily.
上昌广并非杞人忧天，截至当地时间2月21日晚，包括“钻石公主”号邮轮感染人数在内，日本共计737人确诊感染新冠病毒，3例死亡。
As of the night of Feb. 21, 2007, 737 people in Japan, including the number of people infected by the MV Princess Diamond, had been diagnosed with the new crown virus, with three deaths.
截至2月20日，“钻石公主”号邮轮有634人确诊，这是中国大陆以外人数最多的聚集性感染。
As of February 20, the Diamond Princess had 634 confirmed cases, the largest number of concentrated infections outside mainland China.
乘客中确诊感染新冠病毒的一名神奈川县87岁男性和一名东京都84岁女性被送往医疗机构后死亡。
An 87-year-old man from Kanagawa Prefecture and an 84-year-old woman from Tokyo who were diagnosed with the new crown virus died after being taken to a hospital.
“伦敦愿接手奥运会”东京奥运会原定于今年7月24日开幕，按照原计划，日本方面要在年初进行一系列测试赛以确保场馆和营地正常运行。
"London Wants to Take Over Olympic Games" The Tokyo Olympics, which were due to begin on July 24, were scheduled to start with a series of tests early in the year to ensure that venues and camps were functioning properly.
虽然此前出现零星新冠病毒感染个案，但这并不影响东京方面的筹备工作。
Although there have been sporadic cases of new crown virus infection, this does not affect preparations in Tokyo.
然而，“钻石公主”号事件改变了事件走向。
However, the Diamond Princess incident changed the course of events.
鉴于疫情发展十分迅速，日本方面已经缩小了东京和名古屋这两场重要马拉松赛事规模，并取消一些小城市马拉松赛事。
Japan has scaled down the two major marathon races in Tokyo and Nagoya and canceled some of the smaller city marathons in the light of the epidemic's rapid development.
原定于下周举行的东京残奥会硬地滚球测试赛取消，这是第一个受疫情影响取消的奥运会及残奥会测试赛。
The hard bowling test at the Tokyo Paralympic Games, originally scheduled for next week, was cancelled as the first Olympic and Paralympic Games test to be cancelled due to the epidemic.
随着国际社会担忧情绪不断上升，英国伦敦保守党市长候选人肖恩·贝利（Shaun Bailey）甚至表示，如果新冠疫情迫使奥运会要更换举办国，那么伦敦愿意从东京手中接过承办权，举办这次体育盛事。
Shaun Bailey, the Tory mayoral candidate in London, even said London was willing to take over from Tokyo to host the sporting event if the new crown forced a change of host country.
疫情的发展给东京奥运会组委会、日本政府和东京市政府造成很大困扰。
The development of the epidemic has caused great distress to the TOKYO Organizing Committee, the Japanese government and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.
面对外界担忧，国际奥委会和日本有关方面最近几个星期一再强调，不准备取消或者推迟东京奥运的举行。
Faced with concerns, the IOC and Japanese authorities have repeatedly stressed in recent weeks that they are not prepared to cancel or delay the Games.
2月21日，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在记者会上强调，东京奥运会和残奥会将如期举行。
On February 21, Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Naoto Kan stressed at a press conference that the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games would be held as scheduled.
日本奥运大臣桥本圣子同时表示，3月26日开始的东京奥运会圣火也将照常进行。
Japan's Olympic minister, Naoko Hashimoto, also said the flame, which started March 26 in Tokyo, would be carried out as usual.
日本方面筹备工作正在加紧推进，从2月下旬至4月仍将举办一系列比赛测试活动，为正赛积累病毒防控经验。
Japan is stepping up preparations and will hold a series of competition tests from late February to April to gain experience in virus prevention and control for the race.
在谈到日本是否会推迟或取消这些测试活动时，东京奥运会发言人高古正哲（Masa Takaya）连说五个“不”。
Masa Takaya, a spokesman for the Tokyo Olympics, said five "no" s when it came to whether Japan would postpone or cancel the tests.
他介绍说，第一阶段测试活动在本月进行，仅限于日本运动员参加。
The first phase of the test took place this month and was limited to Japanese athletes, he said.
第二阶段测试活动计划在3月和4月举行，其中包括轮椅橄榄球和体操项目等。
The second phase of the test is planned for March and April and will include wheelchair rugby and gymnastics.
他强调，有些测试活动会进行调整，但肯定会进行。
He stressed that some of the testing activities would be adjusted, but certainly would.
对于疫情带来的压力，世界卫生组织（WHO）呼吁大家冷静，发言人塔里克·贾萨雷维奇 （Tarik Jasarevic）认为，目前没有证据表明在中国以外有社区感染状况，因此WHO目前不要求取消大型集会。
In response to the strain of the epidemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) is calling for calm. Spokesman Tarik Jasarevic says there is no evidence of community infection outside China, so the World Health Organization is not calling for large gatherings to be cancelled.
马里恩·库普曼斯（Marion Koopmans） 是WHO突发事件委员会成员。
Marion Koopmans is a member of the WHO emergency committee.
今年1月22日，WHO在日内瓦总部召开突发事件委员会会议讨论新冠肺炎疫情是否构成“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”，库普曼斯就是在座的16名专家之一。
Kupmans was one of 16 experts at a meeting of the Emergency Committee at its Geneva headquarters on January 22 to discuss whether the outbreak of pneumonia constitutes a public health emergency of international concern.
对于疫情是否会危及东京奥运会，库普曼斯对《财经》记者表示，虽然有媒体曾经引用她的话暗示东京奥运会有危险，但目前情况并非如此。
Kupmans told Caijing that although she had been quoted in the media as suggesting the Games were dangerous, that was not the case.
我们需要等待，看看这种病毒是否通过中国以及其他国家和地区采取的防控措施得到控制。
We need to wait and see if the virus is contained through control measures in China and other countries and regions.
“从长远来看，如果（这些措施）无法取得成功，我们可能会在世界其他地区看到更广泛传播。
"If [these measures] do not succeed in the long run, we may see it more widely in other parts of the world."
这是否会导致像旅行限制这样的措施，将取决于它有多严重。
Whether this leads to measures like travel restrictions will depend on how serious it is.
当我们看到来自中国的数据时，我们确实看到了疾病的严重性，但我们也知道，大多数病例（表现出的症状）是轻微的，我们目前只能推测近期事件的确切进程。
When we look at the data from China, we do see the severity of the disease, but we also know that most cases (the symptoms shown) are mild and we can only speculate on the exact course of recent events.
” 库普曼斯说。
"said Kupmans.
历史上还没有任何一届奥运会因为战争以外的原因而取消或延期。
No Olympic Games in history has been cancelled or postponed for reasons other than war.
保险界人士认为传染病将会是东京2020奥运会保险政策中一部分。
Insurers say infectious diseases will be part of Tokyo's 2020 insurance policy.
按照惯例，奥运会组织方通常投保对冲门票销售亏损，而国际奥委会也会额外买保险为赞助商和广播收入方面可能的亏损保底。
As is customary, Olympic organizers usually insure against losses on ticket sales, while the IOC buys additional insurance to cover potential losses on sponsors and broadcast revenues.
伦敦劳合社（Lloyd's of London）一个主要承保商透露，通常来说，给奥运会买保险时，不会将传染病排除在承保范围外。
A leading underwriter at London's Lloyd & apos; s of London says communicable diseases are not routinely excluded from coverage when buying insurance for the Olympics.
因此，从理论上来说，如果东京奥运因为新冠肺炎取消，相关条款就会被激活。
So, in theory, if the Tokyo Olympics were to be cancelled because of pneumonia, the terms would be activated.
对于保费，据劳合社估算，支付的费用可能相当于保额的1.5%至3%。
For premiums, Lloyd's estimates that the fees paid may be equivalent to 1.5 to 3 per cent of the amount insured.
鉴于东京2020组织方表示预算是97亿英镑，假设保费是保额的3%，投保成本就将是2.91亿英镑。
Given Tokyo 2020's budget of ￡9.7 billion, assuming premiums of 3 per cent of coverage, the cost of insurance would be ￡291 million.
安倍政府面临信任危机疫情给东京奥运会蒙上阴影的同时也让安倍政府面临巨大的信任危机，安倍内阁支持率一度跌至38%。
While Abe's government has faced a crisis of confidence that has cast a shadow over the Games in Tokyo, Abe's government has faced a huge crisis of confidence, with support for Abe's cabinet falling to 38%.
朝日新闻社于2月15-16日进行全国民意调查，当被问及政府应对新冠肺炎对策时，50%受访者回答“不予好评”，“好评”只有34%。
When asked about the government's response to the new crown pneumonia, 50 percent of respondents to the Asahi Shimbun news agency conducted a nationwide poll on February 15-16.
对于感染在日本扩大是否感到不安，回答“非常”与“某种程度”感到不安的受访者为85%。
Asked if the infection was spreading in Japan, 85 percent of respondents said they were "very" or "somewhat" upset.
45%的受访者认为日本政府针对钻石公主号的处理方式不恰当，造成病毒感染不断扩大。
Forty-five percent of respondents said the government's handling of the Princess Diamond was inappropriate, causing the virus to spread.
在应对钻石公主号问题上，日本政府面临内外压力，在过去两周时间里，日本政府在乘客权利与防止疫情扩散的两难抉择中艰难走钢丝，基于检疫法，为了实施检疫而要求乘客在船上观察健康状况14天，日本不允许未检疫人员下船。
The Government of Japan has faced internal and external pressure to deal with the issue of the Princess Diamond. For the past two weeks, the Government of Japan has been walking a tightrope between the rights of passengers and preventing the spread of the disease.
然而，经过多日隔离后，随着船上环境逐渐变差以及感染人数快速上升，这一隔离政策遭到越来越多质疑，一些公共健康问题专家认为正是因为将如此众多乘客隔离在这样的密闭环境中，使得感染机会倍增。
However, after many days of isolation, the isolation policy is increasingly being questioned as the ship's environment deteriorates and the number of infections rises rapidly, and some public health experts believe that it is the isolation of so many passengers in such a closed environment that multiplies the chances of infection.
神户大学传染病学教授岩田健太郎（Kentaro Iwata）抨击船上隔离政策是最大失策，大错特错，非常可能发生二次感染。
Kentaro Iwata, a professor of infectious diseases at Kobe University, attacked the ship-quarantine policy as the biggest blunder, a blunder, and a high risk of secondary infection.
对于日方举措，库普曼斯对《财经》记者表示，虽然并不了解钻石公主号船上具体情况，但依照惯例，隔离检疫可以阻止进一步传播，因此需要持续14天，直到最后一次接触患者或病毒来源……但检疫隔离不一定在船上，也可以在家里。
As for the Japanese move, Kupman told Caijing that although the exact circumstances of the Princess Diamond were not known, quarantine was routinely used to prevent further transmission and therefore needed to continue for 14 days until the last contact with the patient or the source of the virus... but quarantine need not be on board the ship or at home.
日本官员则捍卫海上隔离作法， WHO前西太平洋地区主任尾身茂（Shigeru Omi）就认为这对减少感染非常有效，因为多数感染都是在隔离措施开始前就已发生。
Japanese officials defend maritime isolation, which Shigeru Omi, the World Health Organization's former director for the Western Pacific, believes is very effective in reducing infection, because most infections occur before the quarantine measures begin.
上昌广赞同尾身茂的说法，他的团队曾协助东京大学医科学研究所井元清哉教授合作研究2009年甲流在日本传播的轨迹，他们发现虽然在机场入境口岸设置检疫隔离有助于发现病例，但这些被发现的感染人员只是冰山一角，因为有潜伏期，事后统计数据证明入境检疫漏过大量病例，这说明这一措施有局限性，对于轮船同样如此。
While quarantine at airport ports of entry helped to detect cases, they found that these detected infections were just the tip of the iceberg, as evidenced by the latency period and the large number of cases of missing quarantine at entry points, indicating the limitations of the measure, as well as for ships.
日本政府检疫速度慢也备受诟病，虽然检验能力有限，但多日后才请求民间机构协助，直到隔离结束前一天才完成对所有乘客筛查。
The slow quarantine of the Government of Japan has also been criticized for its limited ability to test, but it took many days to request the assistance of civil agencies until the screening of all passengers was completed the day before the end of the quarantine.
由于筛检缓慢，要确定感染是从何时开始，更是难上加难。
Slow screening makes it even more difficult to determine when an infection begins.
“日本卫生部应该与私营企业合作，扩大病毒检测能力，而不是依赖已经超负荷运转的国家传染病研究所。
"Japan's health ministry should work with private companies to expand virus detection capabilities rather than relying on the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, which is already overstretched.
”上昌广说。
'he said.
不仅如此，由于日本政府让隔离结束后呈阴性的数百名乘客自行下船且可以乘坐公共交通工具回家，这一举动引发担忧，因为这些检测呈阴性的乘客是否在隔离期间被感染但仍处于病毒的潜伏期不可而知。
Moreover, the fact that the Japanese government has allowed hundreds of passengers who were negative after the quarantine to disembark and travel home by public transport is a cause for concern, as it is not conceivable that these negative passengers would have been infected during isolation but would still be in the incubation period of the virus.
美国、澳大利亚、加拿大和韩国表示，这些撤离乘客乘包机回国后将再进行两周隔离，其中一些是在军事基地，这表明这些国家不信任船上的隔离措施。
The United States, Australia, Canada and South Korea have said that the two-week quarantine period for evacuees returning home on chartered flights, some of which are on military bases, shows that these countries do not trust the separation measures on board.
对于这些乘客是否会将病毒在日本国内传播开来，上昌广并不这么认为。
Mr Shang did not think the passengers would spread the virus in Japan.
因为虽然有些乘客可能在船上感染且没有任何感染迹象，但如果处理得当，这种携带病毒被感染的可能性似乎不大。
Because while some passengers may be infected on board and show no signs of infection, if handled properly, the risk of contracting the virus appears low.
日本政府对于钻石公主号的应对也折射出日本官僚体制存在的问题。
The Japanese government's response to the Princess Diamond also reflects Japan's bureaucratic problems.
天普大学（Temple University）东京校区社会学教授基莱·克利夫兰（Kyle Cleveland）曾研究日本政府应对福岛核泄漏事故的反应。
Kyle Cleveland, professor of sociology at Temple University's Tokyo campus, studied the Japanese government's response to the Fukushima accident.
对比这两起事件，克利夫兰看到了令人不安的相似之处。
In contrast to the two incidents, Cleveland saw disturbing parallels.
在他看来，这说明日本的官僚机构危机管理存在很大问题，缺乏真正的专家负责决策协调有很大问题，因为这会让政府官员被置于他们能力之外的权威地位。
In his view, this suggests that there is a big problem with bureaucratic crisis management in Japan, and that the lack of real experts in charge of decision-making coordination is problematic, because it puts government officials in a position of authority beyond their capabilities.
“日本有时是自身能力的受害者，这里一切运转良好，是一个在各方面都高度结构化、功能齐全的社会。
"Japan is sometimes a victim of its own capabilities, where everything works well and is a highly structured and functional society in every way.
当事情偏离轨道时，他们认为采取正常的日常流程就足够了，但特殊情况需要特殊的应对措施，”克利夫兰说。
When things get off track, they think it's enough to go through the normal routines, but special circumstances require special measures, "Cleveland said.
“日本算是一个自然灾害非常多的国家，所以国民性格也比较特殊，目前看来大家没有感到那么恐慌。
"Japan is a country with a large number of natural disasters, so it has a special national character," he said.
不过传染病跟地震、海啸、台风等不一样，我觉得还是需要某种恐惧，警惕心。
But unlike earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons and the like, I feel I need some kind of fear and vigilance.
所以我觉得岩田教授的警告很有意义。
So I think Professor Iwata's warning makes sense.
”日本知名媒体的一位驻华记者对《财经》记者表示。
A China-based journalist with a prominent Japanese media outlet told Caijing.
该驻华记者认为，日本政府必须管控疫情，而不是能不能应对的问题，因为事关国民生命，要不然后果严重。
The Chinese correspondent says the Japanese government must control the epidemic, not whether it can deal with it, because it is a matter of national life or serious consequences.
在他看来，疫情也许会影响东京奥运会，“我个人觉得东京奥运也不是一定要准时开的。
In his view, the epidemic may affect the Tokyo Olympics. "Personally, I don't think Tokyo is going to start on time.
为了召开奥运而牺牲生命，也不合理吧。
It is unreasonable to sacrifice one's life in order to hold the Olympic Games.
”重点关注高风险人群目前，日本疫情的发展是一方面出现重症患者死亡现象，另一方面则感染扩大但轻症较多。
"Focus on high-risk groups The current epidemic in Japan is characterized by severe deaths on the one hand and expanded but mild infections on the other.
鉴于这种情况，日本政府将焦点对准重症化风险较高的人，在彻底预防老年人等高风险人群感染同时，构建能尽早发现发病患者进而优先给予治疗的机制。
In view of this situation, the Government of Japan has focused on people at higher risk of serious illness, while at the same time thoroughly preventing infections in high-risk groups such as the elderly, constructing mechanisms that will enable the early detection of patients and thus prioritize treatment.
厚生劳动省2月17日发布了发热等症状人士向咨询中心电话咨询的标准，其中列举了感冒症状和37.5度以上发热持续4天以上等症状。
The Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour on February 17 issued guidelines for people suffering from fever and other symptoms to consult the counselling centre by telephone, citing symptoms such as colds and fever of more than 37.5 degrees lasting more than four days.
由于老年人和存在基础性疾病的人容易出现重症化的现象，这类人群症状持续2天左右便应电话咨询。
Since the elderly and people with basic diseases are prone to severe forms of illness, such people should consult by telephone for about 2 days.
如果咨询中心认为有必要就诊，将介绍疑似人士前往设置有“归国者及接触者外来”门诊的专业医疗机构。
If the counselling centre deems it necessary, the suspect is referred to a specialized medical institution with a "Returnees and Contacts Outside" clinic.
设置专业门诊的医疗机构数量截至2月15日达到726个，厚生劳动省力争扩充至与2009年甲流爆发时800个左右的规模。
The number of medical institutions with specialized clinics reached 726 as of 15 February, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare strives to expand to around 800 at the time of the outbreak of influenza A in 2009.
后生劳动省还将专用病床增至约3400张，根据感染扩大情况，可能让重症者优先入院，而轻症者在自己家养病。
The Ministry of Health and Labour has also increased the number of specialized beds to about 3,400, which, depending on the spread of the infection, may give priority to hospitalizing the seriously ill, while light cases will be brought up in their own homes.
杜绝医院内感染是防止高风险人士被感染的关键，此次新冠肺炎爆发后，武汉出现多起医院内感染。
Eliminating hospital infections is the key to preventing high-risk people from getting infected. After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, there were many hospital infections in Wuhan.
在日本国内，和歌山县和神奈川县也发生疑似医护人员和患者相互感染的事例。
Cases of mutual infection between medical personnel and patients have also been reported in Hokyama and Kanagawa Prefectures in Japan.
冲绳县立中部医院传染内科首席专家高山义浩（Hiro Takayama）指出，如果感染在有100名入住者的设施内扩大，将有30人以上发病，数人死亡。
Hiro Takayama, chief specialist in infectious medicine at Okinawa Central Hospital, notes that if the infection expands in a facility with 100 residents, there will be more than 30 cases and several deaths.
为了尽早发现高风险患者，厚生劳动省扩充接受病毒检测的人员范围，不仅限于中国旅行史或有相关接触，医生判断疑似感染情况也纳入检测范围。
In order to detect high-risk patients as early as possible, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour has extended the range of persons tested for the virus beyond the history of travel in China or related contacts.
检测最初由国立传染病研究所和地方卫生研究所进行，每天可进行1500人左右，但由于人员和试剂不足，未能满负荷运转，目前在企业和大学协助下检测能力已提高至逾3000人。
Initially carried out by the National Institute of Infectious Diseases and the Local Health Institute, it can carry out around 1,500 persons per day, but it is not operating at full capacity because of insufficient personnel and reagents, and its detection capacity has now been increased to over 3,000 with the assistance of enterprises and universities.
由于现阶段尚无新冠肺炎特效药，日本采取肺炎等对症疗法。
Due to the lack of new-crown pneumonia specific drugs, Japan has adopted pneumonia and other symptomatic treatment.
厚生劳动省为临床试验提供研究费用，避免让患者个人承担。
The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare provides research fees for clinical trials to avoid placing the burden on individual patients.
目前日本政府正全力推进上述措施，确保控制疫情和避免影响东京奥运会。
The Japanese government is making every effort to push ahead with these measures to ensure containment and avoid disrupting the Tokyo Olympics.
对于未来疫情走向，上昌广认为，日本不太可能成为第二个病毒传播中心，因为新冠病毒已经在东亚包括韩国、日本和台湾等在内的国家和地区传播。
In terms of the future course of the epidemic, Shang Changguang believes that Japan is unlikely to become a second center for the spread of the virus, which has spread in East Asia, including South Korea, Japan and Taiwan.
奥运圣火传递活动将在3月12日从希腊开始，3月26日来到日本，这些标志性活动会否受到影响取决于日本政府对于疫情的控制。
The torch relay starts in Greece on March 12 and arrives in Japan on March 26. Whether these iconic activities will be affected will depend on the Japanese government's control of the disease.
四年一届，从组织方到运动员，都为东京奥运会花费多年努力，正如世卫组织专家库普曼斯所言，全球疫情走向将决定这奥运会能否继续在正常轨道上运转。
Every four years, from organizers to athletes, it took years of hard work for the Games, which, as WHO expert Kupman put it, will determine whether the Games can continue on track.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日本疫情蔓延，东京奥运会还能如期开吗？。
Japanese epidemic spread, the Tokyo Olympic Games can still be held on schedule?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "日本疫情蔓延，东京奥运会还能如期开吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did the Tokyo Olympics keep pace with its epidemic?;
var msg_desc = "按照原计划，今年奥运圣火传递活动将在3月12日从希腊开始，3月26日来到日本，7月24日东京奥运会将开幕，这些安排会否受到影响，取决于日本政府对于疫情的控制";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; As originally planned, the Olympic flame will begin this year with Greece on March 12, Japan on March 26, and the Tokyo Olympic Games on July 24.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
