505人确诊11人被免职，监狱该如何防范疫情暴发？。
505 confirmed 11 dismissals, how should the prison guard against the outbreak?
王丽娜 等。
Wang Lina and others.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
截至2月20日24时，全国有湖北、浙江、山东五所监狱发生了新冠肺炎感染疫情，这些均为输入性病例，确诊的505人中暂无死亡图/Unsplash文|《财经》记者 王丽娜 俞琴 辛颖 黄姝静编辑|鲁伟截至2月20日24时，湖北武汉女子监狱确诊230例，湖北汉津监狱确诊41例、疑似9例；湖北省未成年人管教所疑似一例；山东任城监狱确诊200例，疑似10例；浙江十里丰监狱确诊34例。
As of 2400 on February 20, there were five new cases of infection with pneumonia in Hubei, Zhejiang and Shandong prisons nationwide. These cases were imported. Among the 505 cases diagnosed, there were 230 confirmed cases in Hubei Wuhan Women's Prison, 41 cases and 9 cases suspected.
2月21日下午，在国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，司法部监狱管理局负责人何平披露了上述监狱疫情数据。
On the afternoon of 21 February, at a press conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, the head of the Prison Administration of the Ministry of Justice, He Ping, disclosed the above-mentioned prison epidemic data.
何平表示，所有病例都是输入性感染，“目前，没有发生感染新冠肺炎罪犯死亡事件。
He said all cases were imported infections and "there have been no deaths of new crown pneumonia offenders."
”五所监狱有505人确诊一事引发广泛关注。
The 505 confirmed cases in five prisons have caused widespread concern.
司法部司法研究所原所长王公义对《财经》记者表示，监狱最害怕的就是暴发传染病。
'The worst thing a prison fears is an outbreak of infectious disease, 'Wang Gongyi, a former director of the Justice Institute, told Caijing.
因为监狱人群密集、场所比较封闭，一般情况下每个监舍至少关押10人，服刑人员的主要活动空间如吃、住、睡、学习、上厕所都集中在监舍内。
Because of the density of the prison population and the relative isolation of the facilities, which normally hold at least 10 persons per cell, the main areas of activity for inmates, such as food, housing, sleep, study and toilet use, are concentrated in the cells.
因此，即便在未发生重大疫情时，“监狱对传染病及突发公共卫生事件都非常重视。
Thus, even in the absence of a major outbreak, "prisons take infectious diseases and public health emergencies very seriously.
”何平表示，疫情发生以来，监狱系统认真贯彻落实党中央、国务院关于疫情防控的决策部署，严格落实国务院联防联控机制要求，对疑似病例及其密切接触者一律隔离观察，对确诊患者一律送诊治疗，确保全部得到及时救治。
He said that since the outbreak, the prison system has earnestly implemented the decision-making arrangements of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on epidemic prevention and control, strictly implemented the requirements of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism under the State Council, observed suspected cases and their close contacts in isolation, and sent all patients to hospital for treatment.
何平还表示，对在疫情防控中排查不彻底、报告不及时、隔离不到位，导致发生输入性疫情的严肃问责。
He also said that in the prevention and control of the epidemic, incomplete screening, untimely reporting, isolation in place, leading to serious accountability for the imported epidemic.
据新华社2月21日下午报道，经中央批准，近日，中央政法委组成调查组，由中央政法委副秘书长雷东生同志任组长，中央政法委、最高人民检察院、公安部、司法部有关负责人参加，赴山东省就任城监狱新冠肺炎疫情有关情况进行全面调查。
With the approval of the central government, the CPPCC recently formed an investigation team headed by Comrade Ledong-sheng, Deputy Secretary-General of the CPPCC, with the participation of relevant officials from the CPPCC, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Justice.
截至目前，监狱系统已有11人被免职，1人被党内严重警告处分，1人被立案调查。
To date, 11 persons have been dismissed from the prison system, one has been severely reprimanded by the party and one has been investigated.
监狱暴发输入性疫情目前监狱系统暴发的疫情，均为“输入性病例”，作为一个相对密闭的场所，病例是如何输入监狱的？2月21日，湖北省监狱管理局方面公开表示，湖北省监狱系统共有新冠肺炎确诊病例271例，其中湖北省武汉女子监狱确诊230例，湖北省沙洋汉津监狱确诊41例。
An outbreak of imported cases The current outbreak of the prison system is known as "imported cases" and how cases are imported into prisons as a relatively closed place.On February 21, the Hubei Provincial Prison Administration said there were 271 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia in Hubei Province, 230 of which were confirmed in Wuhan Women's Prison in Hubei Province and 41 in Shayang Hanjin Prison in Hubei Province.
2月21日同一天，山东省对外公布任城监狱发生新冠肺炎疫情。
On February 21, Shandong Province announced the outbreak of new crown pneumonia at Ren Cheng prison.
在新闻发布会上，山东省卫生健康委党组书记、主任袭燕表示，截至2月20日，已全面完成对任城监狱相关人员2077人的核酸检测，确诊病例207例，其中，干警7例，服刑人员200例，而干警7例此前已统计在济宁病例中即时发布。
As of February 20, 2,077 people in Ren Cheng prison had been tested for nucleic acid, and 207 cases had been confirmed, including 7 by police officers and 200 by prison inmates, while 7 cases had been counted for immediate release in Jining, according to Yan, secretary and director of the Shandong Health Commission.
山东省监狱管理局党委书记、局长吴磊介绍了疫情的发展。
Shandong Prison Administration Party Secretary and Director Wu Lei introduced the development of the epidemic.
2月12日下午，任城监狱一值班干警因咳嗽到医院就诊被隔离收治，2月13日晚22时经双试剂检测后诊断为新冠肺炎确诊病例；2月13日下午18时，该监狱一备勤干警经核酸检测后诊断为确诊病例。
On the afternoon of 12 February, a duty officer of Ren Cheng prison was hospitalized for coughing and was diagnosed as a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia at 2200 hours on 13 February, after being tested by a double reagent, and on 13 February, at 1800 hours, when the superintendent of the prison was diagnosed as confirmed by a nucleic acid test.
当晚23时，山东省委、省政府接到报告后，迅即组织有关方面对相关区域进行封闭管理，全力开展排查、筛查、隔离、救治等工作。
At 2300 hours on the same day, the Shandong Provincial Committee and the provincial government received the report and promptly organized the relevant authorities to close the relevant areas for close management and to make every effort to carry out screening, screening, isolation and treatment.
仍是2月21日，据浙江发布消息，浙江省昨日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例28例，其中27例为十里丰监狱罪犯，加上此前已公布的7例确诊病例，十里丰监狱共有罪犯确诊病例34例。
Also on February 21, Zhejiang reported 28 new confirmed cases of pneumonia in Zhejiang yesterday, 27 of them at Xilifeng prison, in addition to seven previously announced confirmed cases and 34 confirmed criminal cases at Xilifeng prison.
此前的1月30日，网上曾流传一份“指挥部令第5号关于责成省十里丰监狱立即启动战时问责追责程序的命令”的文件，文件称该监狱有民警感染，1月27日被初步确认为新冠肺炎疑似病例， 1月28日上午核酸检测的血样符送省疾控中心实验室复核检测。
Earlier, on January 30, a document circulated online called "Order No. 5 of the command order obliging the province's Xulifeng prison to immediately activate wartime accountability procedures" stated that the prison had a civilian police infection, was initially confirmed as a suspected case of pneumonia on 27 January, and blood samples tested on the morning of 28 January were sent to the provincial CDC laboratory for review and testing.
1月30日，浙江省监狱管理局执法监督处工作人员向红星新闻证实该文件属实。
On 30 January, law enforcement officers of the Zhejiang Prison Administration confirmed the document to the Red Star News.
目前公布的监狱存在确诊病例的浙江省、湖北省均出现了民警瞒报生活轨迹的情况。
At present the announced existence of confirmed cases of prison Zhejiang, Hubei Province, the police have been hiding the track of life.
据官方通报，浙江十里丰监狱一名民警在1月14日至19日去了武汉，但刻意隐瞒继续上班，至1月25日深夜被发现，1月29日确诊为新冠肺炎。
According to official reports, a civilian police officer from Shiulifeng prison in Zhejiang Province went to Wuhan from January 14 to 19, but deliberately kept secret from going to work until he was found late on January 25 and confirmed as New Crown Pneumonia on January 29.
湖北沙洋汉津监狱一名干警，因未如实报告生活轨迹，被给予党内严重警告处分。
A police officer at the Han Jin prison in Shayang, Hubei Province, was given a severe warning by the party for failing to report the true trajectory of his life.
三省多地监狱暴发疫情，对各地的监狱疫情防控提出新的挑战。
Outbreaks in prisons in three provinces pose new challenges to the prevention and control of prison outbreaks in various regions.
前述一位在监狱工作的人士告诉《财经》记者，他所在的监狱警察职工在防控期间进行了分批封闭管理，第一批封闭执勤14天，再隔离14天，无恙才能回家。
A former prison official told Caijing that his prison police staff had been kept in batches during the control period, with the first 14 days of closed duty followed by 14 days of isolation before returning home unharmed.
第二批先隔离14天再执勤14天，依此类推，第一批执勤干警的出监日将至。
The second batch is quarantined for 14 days, and so forth, with the first batch of off-duty vigilantes approaching.
但因为多地监狱暴发疫情，他所在的监狱已接到通知，第一批执勤警察原定的出监行程被取消。
However, as a result of outbreaks in many prisons, his prison had been notified that the first scheduled departures of police officers on duty had been cancelled.
“继续在监内封闭，出监时间待定。
"To remain confined in prison for a time to be determined.
”监狱该如何防范疫情？新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，监狱也是疫情防控的重点区域。
Prisons are also a key area for disease control after the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia outbreak.
湖北省的一名前监狱干警告诉《财经》记者，监狱有应对公共卫生事件的预案，比如SARS时期就制定预案，对监狱实行全封闭管理，干警实行轮班制，一般是半个月一轮回，进出测量体温，这一模式延续至今。
A former prison superintendent in Hubei province told Caijing that prisons had plans to deal with public health problems, such as making plans during the SARS period, keeping prisons completely closed and police running shifts, typically half a month, to take in and out of body temperature, a pattern that continues to this day.
他分析，监狱对干警的管理有所疏忽导致监狱疫情爆发。
He analyzed that the prison management of the police carelessly led to the outbreak of an outbreak of prison.
在2月21日的通报中，山东和浙江都表示，此前确诊的监狱干警案例已统计在当地病例中即时发布。
In a February 21 briefing, Shandong and Zhejiang provinces said that previously confirmed cases of prison police officers had been reported immediately in local cases.
但有关监狱服刑人员的数字还是第一次集中性对外公布。
However, for the first time, the figures for prison inmates were published centrally.
司法部司法研究所原所长王公义表示，各地监狱属于省级直管单位，由各省、直辖市、自治区的监狱管理局直管，后者又归各省、直辖市、自治区司法厅管理。
Wang Gongyi, former director of the Judicial Research Institute of the Ministry of Justice, said prisons were under the direct supervision of provincial-level prisons under the direct supervision of the prison administration departments of provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions.
一般情况下，监狱发生传染病及突发公共卫生事件会向省监狱局报告，省监狱局上报司法厅，对于重大的公共卫生事件应当在事发后第一时间报告当地党委、政府。
In general, cases of infectious diseases and public health emergencies in prisons are reported to the Provincial Prison Bureau, which reports major public health incidents to the local Party committees and governments at the first possible time.
对于重大公共卫生事件在内的重大事件的应对，司法部2013年就出台《司法部关于重大案（事）件处置工作的意见》（下称《意见》）。
In response to major events, including major public health events, the Ministry of Justice issued the Opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the Handling of Major Cases (hereinafter referred to as "Opinions") in 2013.
《意见》要求，认真执行《突发事件应对法》等法律法规和《司法行政系统突发事件应急预案》，制定完善具体的重大案（事）件处置预案。
The Opinions call for the earnest implementation of the Emergency Response Law and other laws and regulations, as well as the Emergency Plan for the Administration of Justice System, and the formulation and improvement of a concrete plan for handling major cases.
对发现的重大案（事）件苗头性信息，要加强研判，及时进行综合性评估，提出预警。
For the discovery of major cases (events) of the incipient information, we should strengthen the judgment, timely comprehensive assessment, and provide early warning.
对发生的重大案（事）件，要启动处置预案，最大限度减轻重大案（事）件的影响。
In major cases (incidents) that occur, the disposal plan shall be initiated to minimize the impact of major cases.
各级司法行政机关按照规定，安排专人24小时值班，确保重大案（事）件处置工作通讯畅通。
Judicial administrative organs at all levels shall, in accordance with relevant regulations, assign special persons on duty 24 hours a day to ensure smooth communication in handling major cases.
重大案（事）件处置过程中的重要情况，要按规定及时报送。
Important information in the process of disposing of major cases shall be reported in time and in accordance with regulations.
王公义告诉《财经》记者，各监狱内都有医疗机构，大的监狱还有医院，监狱在日常监管中特别重视传染病的预防和控制，“不是一般的重视”，比如监狱内常见的流感和消化道传染病痢疾等，监狱都有较为完善的应对。
Wang told Caijing that there are medical institutions in prisons, large prisons and hospitals. In their daily supervision, prisons attach special importance to the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
“社会上发生重大突发公共卫生事件时，监狱和学校这类人员聚集的地方，也都比较紧张。
"Prisons and schools, where people congregate, are also tense when there are major public health emergencies.
”王公义分析，此次几个监狱发生大规模的疫情，可能与监狱监管不力有关，“一个是重视不够，另一个是对新冠肺炎认识不足，导致管理跟不上。
The large-scale outbreaks in several prisons, Wang said, may have been linked to poor prison supervision, "one due to a lack of attention and the other to a lack of awareness of pneumonia in the new crown."
”一位参与过监狱传染病管控的流行病学专家向《财经》记者介绍，监狱是一定人群的特定密闭性公共场所，在传染病日常监控方面，要严格防范传染源的输入，发挥狱舍室长、组长、监狱医生的作用，发现哨点感染者或患者及时报告。
An epidemiological expert involved in the control of infectious diseases in prisons told Caijing that prisons are specific closed public places for certain groups of people. In terms of routine surveillance of infectious diseases, strict precautions should be taken against the importation of infection sources and the role of cell chiefs, group leaders and prison doctors should be exercised to detect infected persons or patients at checkpoints.
“监狱管理的优势在于，集中排查很容易，人员集中，便于管理，容易采样。
"The advantage of prison management is that it is easy to centralize, centralize, manage and easily sample.
”一位传染病感染控制研究人员向《财经》记者分析，监狱这样的地方，一定是外来的输入性病例，最首要的就是源头控制。
An infectious-infection control researcher told Caijing that a place like a prison must be an imported case, the most important one being source control.
启动问责，11人被免职司法部监狱管理局负责人何平表示，对于疫情防控不力的责任人要严格追责问责。
Accountability has been initiated, with 11 dismissed Justice Ministry Director of Prisons He Ping said those responsible for the lack of effective epidemic prevention and control should be strictly held accountable.
外界尤为关注的是，监狱作为一个较为特殊的存在，在疫情中的防控力度如何？公开信息显示，1月25日以来，湖北监狱系统全面落实一级响应各项要求和措施，启动战时机制，进入抗击疫情的战时状态。
The public information shows that since January 25, the Hubei prison system has fully implemented all the requirements and measures, started the wartime mechanism and entered the wartime state of fighting the epidemic.
为确保监狱安全稳定，保障民警职工与服刑人员身体健康和生命安全，在疫情期间，湖北监狱全面进入应急状态，启动封闭值班机制，服刑人员亲属会见也暂时一律停止。
In order to ensure security and stability in prisons and ensure the physical health and safety of civilian police officers and prisoners, Hubei prisons went into full emergency mode during the epidemic period, the closed-duty mechanism was activated and family meetings with prisoners were temporarily suspended.
为了防控疫情，湖北省监狱局还制定了《监狱突发新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎应急工作预案》，成立了疫情防控工作领导小组并组建了维护稳定、综合协调、医疗救治、物资保障、新闻宣传等八个应急工作组，明确了“30分钟内”报告等应急措施，并紧急协调5万个口罩、150箱84消毒液等消毒物资。
In order to prevent and control the epidemic, the Hubei Provincial Prison Bureau has formulated the Pneumonia Emergency Response Plan for the New Coronavirus Infection in Prison, established the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of the Epidemic Disease and formed eight emergency response teams to maintain stability, overall coordination, medical treatment, material security and public information.
至1月31日，山东省监狱局第二次召开全省监狱系统新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控情况视频调度会。
As of January 31, Shandong Prison Bureau held the second provincial prison system of the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia prevention and control video meeting.
会上有关负责人“肯定了前期工作成效，指出工作中存在的问题和不足，分析疫情防控面临的形势，对下步防控工作提出要求。
The meeting "confirmed the previous work effectiveness, pointed out the problems and deficiencies in the work, analysis of the situation faced by the epidemic prevention and control, the next step in the prevention and control of the request.
”浙江省监狱管理局则是在1月23日浙江省启动重大公共突发卫生事件一级响应后立刻要求，自1月24日起，全省监狱系统暂停罪犯会见。
The Zhejiang Provincial Prison Administration (ZJPA) ordered the provincial prison system to suspend prisoner interviews from January 24, following the launch of a major public health emergency response on January 23 in Zhejiang Province.
1月26日下午，浙江省监狱管理局宣布全省监狱系统即刻进入疫情防控阻击战战时状态。
January 26 afternoon, Zhejiang Prison Administration announced that the provincial prison system immediately into the epidemic prevention and control of wartime state.
据司法部监狱管理局负责人何平表示，监狱系统下一步要“坚决堵住漏洞，全力以赴做好监狱疫情防控工作，坚决防止疫情扩散蔓延。
He Ping, director of the prison administration at the Ministry of Justice, said the next step for the prison system was to "resolutely close the loopholes and do its best to prevent the spread of the epidemic."
”截至目前，山东省任城监狱因防控不力发生较大范围的疫情，山东省司法厅党委书记、厅长，省监狱管理局党委书记、第一政委解维俊，山东省监狱管理局党委副书记、政委姜运华，山东省监狱管理局党委委员、副局长王文杰，任城监狱党委书记、监狱长刘葆善，任城监狱党委副书记、政委刘勇刚，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长陈为宁，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长（试用期）邓体贺，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长（试用期）房德峰8人已被免职。
"So far, Shandong Ren Cheng prison due to inadequate control of a large-scale epidemic, Shandong Province Department of Justice Party Secretary, Director, Provincial Prison Administration Party Secretary, Political Commissar Jiang Yunhua, Shandong Prison Administration Party Committee Secretary, Deputy Prison Commissioner Liu Baoshan, Ren Cheng Prison Party committee member, deputy prison director (probation) Deng Tie-hee, Ren Cheng prison committee member, deputy prison director (probation) Fang Defeng 8 have been dismissed.
浙江省司法厅已派出督导组进驻省十里丰监狱现场督查，监狱政委曾祥华、监狱长陈日飞已被免职，公安机关对一名涉事干警立案调查。
Zhejiang Provincial Justice Bureau has dispatched a supervisory team to the provincial 10 Li Fung prison site inspection, prison commissar Zeng Xianghua, prison director Chen Ri-fei has been dismissed, the public security organs opened an investigation against a police officer involved.
湖北省武汉女子监狱因发生较大范围疫情，监狱长周裕坤被免职。
Zhou Yukun, director of Wuhan Women's Prison in Hubei Province, was dismissed because of the extensive epidemic.
湖北沙洋汉津监狱一名干警，因未如实报告生活轨迹，被给予党内严重警告处分。
A police officer at the Han Jin prison in Shayang, Hubei Province, was given a severe warning by the party for failing to report the true trajectory of his life.
截至目前，暴发疫情的监狱共有11人被免职，1人被党内严重警告处分，1人被立案调查。
To date, 11 people have been removed from prisons where the outbreak occurred, one has been severely reprimanded by the party and one has been investigated.
随着中央政法委组成调查组赴山东省就任城监狱新冠肺炎疫情有关情况进行全面调查，后续或有更多监狱系统人员因防控不力被问责。
More prison system personnel may be held accountable for the lack of control as a result of the investigation team formed by the CPLCC to take up the new crown pneumonia epidemic in Shandong Province.
（本文为腾讯独家合作稿件，谢绝转载！）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the epidemic, please see below: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
505人确诊11人被免职，监狱该如何防范疫情暴发？。
505 confirmed 11 dismissals, how should the prison guard against the outbreak?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "505人确诊11人被免职，监狱该如何防范疫情暴发？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 505 diagnosed with 11 dismissals, and how does the prison guard against an outbreak?;
var msg_desc = "截至2月20日24时，全国有湖北、浙江、山东五所监狱发生了新冠肺炎感染疫情，这些均为输入性病例，确诊的505人中暂无死亡";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
