王振耀：疫情前所未见，需要跨部门协调响应，也要避免叠床架屋。
Wang Zhenyao: The epidemic is unprecedented and requires a coordinated response across sectors and the avoidance of duplication.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
突发灾害在变，从传统单一灾害，变得更复杂、更跨界；应急管理也得变，传统条块分割的专业处置，单打独斗遇到了不小的挫折文|《财经》记者 李皙寅实习生 马文斌编辑|施智梁新冠肺炎这场突发公共事件，逐渐演变成包含经济、社会多方面的混合型、跨界型灾害，这引起了救灾人的关注和热议。
The sudden onset of disasters has changed from a traditional single disaster to a more complex and transboundary one; emergency management has also changed, with traditional compartmentalized professional handling and a single-handedness. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
“我在民政部救了十几年灾，没遇到这么复杂，规模这么大的疫情灾难，”北京师范大学中国公益研究院院长王振耀在接受在接受《财经》记者电话专访时表示，新冠肺炎疫情融合了2003年SARS、2008年南方冰冻、汶川地震三场灾害事故的特性，这是现代社会人类面临的一场大灾，不可能有完全成熟的经验来应对。
"I have saved more than a decade of disasters at the Ministry of Civil Affairs," Wang Zhenyao, dean of the China Institute of Public Welfare at Beijing Normal University, told Caijing in a telephone interview that the outbreak of Newcastle Pneumonia combined the characteristics of the three disasters -- SARS in 2003, freezing in 2008 in the south and Wenchuan earthquake.
王振耀曾担任国家民政部救灾救济司、社会福利和慈善事业促进司司长，SARS、汶川地震期间，均在任上参与调度物资。
Wang Zhenyao was the head of the Disaster Relief Department, the Department of Social Welfare and Philanthropy Promotion of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
在救灾领域，建立了国家自然灾害救助四级响应体系，加快了灾民救助工作的规范化进程。
In the field of disaster relief, a four-tier national response system for natural disaster relief has been set up to speed up the standardization of relief work for disaster victims.
“看来大家开始逐渐复工了。
"Everyone seems to be starting to get back to work.
”王振耀一直在持续关注疫情发展，和《财经》记者通话时，他反映晚上路面的车变多了，东三环又堵了起来，断断续续开了一个小时。
Wang Zhenyao, who has been keeping an eye on the situation, told Caijing that traffic on the road had increased at night and the Third Ring Road was blocked again for an intermittent hour.
王振耀认为，这次疫情规模太大，客观上已经演变成了一场大灾。
Wang Zhenyao believes that the epidemic is too large, objectively has evolved into a major disaster.
而现有的突发公共卫生事件响应机制和应急管理体制预案建设都还有待完善。
But the existing public health emergency response mechanism and emergency management system plan construction have yet to be improved.
须有一套标准化的、明确责任到人的响应预案。
There must be a standardized response plan with clear responsibilities to people.
“救灾必须具体，危急时刻不能到处协商讨论表决，就要直接负责的一线相关责任人决策并承担责任，不能谁都说了算，到处报告，但不承担责任。
"Disaster relief must be concrete, it cannot be negotiated and voted upon everywhere in times of crisis, it must involve decision-making and accountability by those directly responsible on the ground, and it cannot be left to everyone to decide, to report everywhere, but not to be held accountable.
这是需要大家重视的宝贵经验”，王振耀直言道。
This is a valuable experience that needs to be taken seriously, "Wang said bluntly.
和自然灾害抗争了十多年的王振耀呼吁，在顶层设立应急管理委员会，通过这个常设机构协调各职能部门积累处理应急事务的经验，借助大部制和大委员会的协调机制，能有效发挥双重优势。
After more than a decade of fighting against natural disasters, Wang called for the creation of an emergency management committee at the top, through which functional departments would be coordinated to accumulate experience in dealing with emergencies, effectively leveraging the coordination mechanisms of the Ministry and the Grand Committee.
王振耀建议，政府应该和社会团体互通情况，鼓励他们依法、依职能来行动。
Wang suggested that the government should communicate with social groups and encourage them to act according to law and function.
从汶川经验来看，社会组织的活力能够弥补政府的不足。
From Wenchuan experience, the vitality of social organizations can make up for the lack of the government.
应对预案不完善，大灾面前就被动《财经》：您曾经在任上处置过多次重大灾害，相比过去这次新冠肺炎疫情有何不同？王振耀：这是现代社会人类面临的一场大灾，不可能有完全成熟的经验来应对。
Caijing: You have dealt with many major disasters during your term of office, how is it different from the previous outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia? Wang Zhenyao: This is a major disaster facing the human race in modern society and it is impossible to deal with it with full-fledged experience.
民政部工作十几年来，从没遇到这么复杂，规模这么大的疫情灾难。
Never before in more than a decade has the Ministry of Civil Affairs experienced such a complex and large-scale epidemic.
它是只巨大的黑天鹅，静悄悄地来了，只好封城，这是非常大的突发性公共卫生事件。
It is a huge black swan, quietly came, had to close the city, this is a very large public health emergency.
我经历过2003年的SARS，直接参与处理过2008年初南方低温雨雪冰冻灾害，及汶川地震救灾等重大灾害的处置，但这次疫情包括传染病、春节期间，加上涉及千万人口多种因素，复杂程度比上述三灾合一还要复杂，规模还要大。
I experienced SARS in 2003 and was directly involved in handling major disasters such as the cold, sleet and ice disaster in the south in early 2008 and the earthquake relief in Wenchuan. But the epidemic included infectious diseases, the Spring Festival and many other factors involving tens of millions of people.
这次是疫中有灾，灾中有疫。
This is a plague, the plague.
伴随疫情扩大，后期牵扯到居民生活必需品的后勤供应和各类人员的救助和保障，这就类似于一次大灾了，疫和灾开始了转换。
With the spread of the epidemic, late in life involved in the provision of basic necessities of life and the rescue and security of all categories of personnel, this is similar to a major disaster, epidemic and disaster began to change.
《财经》：当灾情和疫情来回转换后，现有的处置机制跟上了吗？为什么会出现前方物资结构性紧缺，运转不畅的情况？王振耀：目前来看，我国突发公共卫生事件响应乃至应急管理体系预案机制还有待完善。
"Caijing": When the disaster and epidemic situation back and forth, the existing disposal mechanism has kept up with it? Why is there a structural shortage of supplies in front of the situation, and the situation is not smooth? Wang Zhenyao: At present, China's public health emergency response and emergency management system plan mechanism needs to be improved.
当各省启动突发公共卫生事件一级响应后，在开展防疫救援、封路停市的同时，在医疗物资保障、生活必需品配送、救护人员轮休替换、预防企业延迟复工期间资金链断裂、志愿者协调统筹等诸多方面都需要有预案同步响应、同步保障。
When a province initiates a first-level response to a public health emergency, while carrying out epidemic prevention and rescue work and road closures, plans need to be synchronized and synchronized at the same time to guarantee medical supplies, distribute daily necessities, replace ambulance personnel on rotation, prevent disruption of the financial chain during enterprises' delayed resumption of work, and coordinate and coordinate volunteers.
目前来看，仍缺乏多种烈度的综合预案，以应对小概率的特大突发应急事件。
At present, there is still a lack of a variety of high-intensity comprehensive plans to respond to the small probability of extreme emergencies.
我在民政部担任救灾救济司司长时，职责就是保障老百姓的生活、前线应急（包括医疗）工作人员的基本生活。
When I was Director of the Disaster Relief Department at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, my role was to ensure the livelihood of the civilian population and the basic livelihood of frontline emergency (including medical) staff.
人马未动，粮草先行。
No movement. no movement. forerunner.
救灾物资的保障本来就是救灾工作的重点之一。
The provision of relief supplies is originally one of the priorities of relief efforts.
我一直强调，灾区一定要建立救援物资清单制度。
I have always stressed that the disaster areas must establish a relief goods inventory system.
目前来看，前一阶段，大家对疫情的发展心里没底，加上应对预案准备不充分，在大灾面前还是有些被动。
At present, the previous stage, the development of the epidemic, coupled with the lack of preparation for the response plan, or in the face of a major disaster or some passive.
灾害演变更复杂，制度建设正当时《财经》：新世纪的灾害普遍具有跨界性，自然灾害、公共卫生突发事件、公共安全突发事件、安全生产责任事故等往往容易彼此交互，现有的分块包干有助于专业，但如何实现复杂灾情的跨部门协助呢？王振耀：基于我十几年来应对自然灾害的经验来看，有一个国家层面的协调机制特别重要，借助这个机制和详细的预案就能形成合力，救灾防灾的困难就容易解决。
In the new century, natural disasters, public health emergencies, public safety emergencies and work safety accidents often interact with each other easily. However, based on my experience in dealing with natural disasters for more than a decade, a national-level coordination mechanism is particularly important.
疫情涉及公共卫生专业，也需要更为详细和具体规范的国家行动方案。
The epidemic involves the public health profession and requires more detailed and regulated national programmes of action.
《财经》：2018年，应急管理部应运而生，但其权责不包括应对突发公共卫生事件，导致此次疫情难以发挥专业优势，对此您怎么看？王振耀：这次疫情启动了公共卫生事件，没有启动自然灾害的应急预案，这是可以理解的。
Caijing: In 2018, the Ministry of Emergency Management came into being, but its mandate does not include responding to public health emergencies, making it difficult for the epidemic to play its professional positions.Wang Zhenyao: The outbreak set in motion a public health event, and no contingency plan was launched for natural disasters.
不过，这导致应急管理部很难依照预案启动体制性的支援，发挥自身处置自然灾害的充沛经验，除非有特殊要求。
This, however, makes it difficult for the Ministry of Emergency Management to initiate institutional support in response to the plan and to bring to bear its full experience in dealing with natural disasters, unless there are special requirements.
正因如此，虽然民政部的救灾救济司职能已经划归到应急管理部。
That is why the functions of the Disaster Relief Division of the Ministry of Civil Affairs have been transferred to the Ministry of Emergency Management.
但应急管理部没法依照灾害应急预案响应，从担起大灾捐赠的职责，就只能由民政部规定由红十字会、慈善总会等组织来协调捐赠。
However, the Ministry of Emergency Management is unable to respond according to the disaster emergency plan, from the responsibility of disaster donation, can only be provided by the Ministry of Civil Affairs by the Red Cross, the General Association of Charity and other organizations to coordinate donations.
从当前的发展看，尽管这次疫情不亚于任何一场大灾，但却出现了应急管理部门无法启动灾害应急预案的尴尬局面。
Judging from the current development, although this is no less than any major disaster, but the emergency management departments can not start a disaster emergency plan situation.
《财经》：2005年，SARS疫情结束后，国务院办公厅曾内设过应急管理办公室，负责协调多部委协作处置突发事件。
Caijing: In 2005, after the SARS epidemic ended, an Emergency Management Office was set up within the Cabinet Office of the State Council to coordinate multi-ministerial collaboration in emergency response.
王振耀：当时国务院应急管理办，提供了各部委跨界应急响应的协调机构，每个部门都能把信息报送到这里，统一处理后，供领导决策。
Wang Zhenyao: At that time, the Emergency Management Office of the State Council provided a coordinating body for the cross-border emergency response of various ministries.
那时候，大家不仅能直观地看到所有信息，还要经常参加协调工作会议，承担各大应急体系职责的司长、处长都很熟悉。
At that time, people can not only intuitively see all the information, but also often participate in coordination working meetings, assume the responsibility of the major emergency system directors, section chiefs are familiar.
部制改革后，各部委恢复到传统分工报送的体制，各自直报分管领导，导致前段信息汇总分析能力不足，还可能弱化地方的疫情处置权限。
As a result of the ministerial reform, ministries have reverted to the traditional division of labour reporting system, reporting directly to their respective authorities, which has led to a lack of information-gathering and analysis capacity in the preceding paragraph and may weaken local authority to deal with the epidemic.
《财经》：在灾情发生一段时间后，现在顶层成立了临时指挥部后，各项协调工作顺畅了很多，这套制度是否有必要固定下来？王振耀：确实应该把这个制度进一步规范并固定下来。
Caijing: Some time after the disaster, now that the Interim Headquarters has been set up at the top and coordination is much smoother, does it need to be fixed? Wang Zhenyao: It really should be further regulated and formalized.
放眼全球来看，应急管理改革在各国都是巨大的挑战。
Across the globe, emergency management reform is a huge challenge in all countries.
看来还有必要在国务院内设综合协调机制，通过这个常设机构，让各方积累熟练地处理应急事务的经验。
There also appears to be a need for an integrated coordination mechanism within the Department of State, through which all parties would gain experience in handling emergencies skilfully.
借助大部制和大委员会的协调机制，能有效发挥双重优势。
Through the coordination mechanism of the majority system and the Grand Committee, the dual advantages can be put into practice effectively.
救灾责任得明确，民间力量要悦纳《财经》：您亲历了2008年的汶川地震的救援，当时留下最深印象的是什么？王振耀：国家的应急预案必须权责到人、明确职能，并细化启动预案的机制。
What impressed you most when you experienced the rescue of Wenchuan Earthquake in 2008Wang Zhenyao: The emergency plan of the state must have authority and responsibility, clarify functions, and specify the mechanism for initiating the plan.
例如，在自然灾害的四级响应机制中，由国务院副总理领导下的34个部委办包括军队的相关负责人组成国家减灾委员会，从民政部救灾救济司司长、副部长、部长到国务院副总理依照灾情级别，启动响应机制。
For example, in the four-tier response mechanism for natural disasters, 34 ministries under the leadership of the Vice-Prime Minister of the State Council constitute the National Disaster Reduction Committee, which starts a response mechanism from the Director, Vice-Ministers and Ministers of the Disaster Relief Department of the Ministry of Civil Affairs to the Vice-Prime Minister of the State Council.
一旦灾害发生，达到响应级别，相应的中央工作组必须24小时就要到达灾区，并且要在24小时之内使灾民生活得到初步安排。
Once a disaster occurs and the response level is reached, the corresponding central working group must reach the disaster area within 24 hours and make initial arrangements for the lives of the affected persons within 24 hours.
如果没有标准化处理机制，这就不好办了。
This would be difficult without a standardized treatment mechanism.
各类自然灾害的应急响应体系中，都有一系列明确的责任指标。
In the emergency response system of all kinds of natural disasters, there are a series of clear responsibility indicators.
我怕自己忘了，特地在办公桌后挂着响应标准和程序的大图表，天天看，直到背熟才行。
I was afraid I'd forgotten to hang a large chart of response standards and procedures behind my desk. I read them every day until I knew them by heart.
救灾切记推诿，谁响应谁负责，这不能算糊涂账。
Disaster relief must bear in mind the blame, who answer who is responsible, this is not a muddle.
救灾必须具体，危急时刻不能到处协商讨论表决，就要承担相关责任的责任人决策并承担相应的责任，不能谁都说了算，到处报告。
Disaster relief must be concrete, and in times of crisis it must not be the subject of negotiation, decision-making and accountability on the part of those responsible, who could not be held accountable and reported on everywhere.
这是需要大家重视的宝贵经验。
This is a valuable experience that requires everyone's attention.
《财经》：这次民间力量的自救和互救惹人关注，但也出现了盲动和“报国无门”的情况，是否有必要专设一个接口，以便在遇灾时充分社会动员？王振耀：大灾面前，政府应该和社会团体互通情况，鼓励他们依法、依职能来行动。
"Caijing": This time, people's self-help and mutual help cause concern, but there are blind movements and "no access to the state." Is there a need for a special interface to fully mobilize society in the event of disasters?
应鼓励志愿者和慈善组织发挥作用，即便是疫情，他们也没有缺位，做得很好，让人感动，有的志愿者还献出了宝贵的生命。
Volunteers and charitable organizations should be encouraged to play a role and, even in the event of an epidemic, they are not absent, well done and touched, and some have given their precious lives.
虽然有声音争议韩红的捐赠，但人家率先冲上去了，给了大家信心，真是难能可贵啊！社会组织的活力能够弥补政府的不足。
Although there are voices disputing Han Hong's donation, but people rushed first, give everyone confidence, really valuable ah! Social organization vitality can make up for the lack of government.
以汶川经验来看，当时也有不少政府工作人员遇难，民间组织就发挥了很大的作用。
Wenchuan experience, there were also many government workers killed, the role of non-governmental organizations played a great role.
在疫情面前，志愿者需要经过专业训练、更需要政府的支持。
In the face of the epidemic, volunteers need professional training and government support.
我觉得红十字会可以发挥对接双方的平台性角色，遗憾的是他至被安排接受捐赠，被边缘化了，非常让人遗憾。
I think the Red Cross can play a platform role between the two sides. Unfortunately, he has been relegated to the sidelines, which is very regrettable.
《财经》：从国际经验来看，这种遇灾有没有他山之石？王振耀：学习国外经验是必要的，但套搬经验不一定行。
Caijing: From the international experience, is there a stone in this disaster? Wang Zhenyao: Learning from foreign experience is necessary, but the transfer experience is not always possible.
2008年，我担任亚太经合组织的救灾委员会的轮值主席，在秘鲁介绍汶川救援经验后，很多国家希望中国给他们做内部培训。
In 2008, I served as Chairman-in-Office of the APEC Disaster Relief Committee. After Peru introduced the Wenchuan experience, many countries hoped that China would provide them with internal training.
澳大利亚负责救灾的官员当时就对我说，中国的经验会促进澳大利亚的体制更为完善。
Australian officials in charge of disaster relief told me at the time that China's experience would help improve Australia's system.
日本3·11大地震后，我去现场评估救援后发现，当初学日本，我们通过不断充实健全后，现在人家回过头想向我们学习。
After the March 11 earthquake in Japan, I went to the scene to assess the rescue, found that after learning from Japan, we continue to enrich and improve, now people want to learn from us.
我个人建议要学习海外对于应急管理相对健全的培训体系，包括增设突发公共卫生应急响应、自然灾害应急响应的相关专业，增强中央党校（国家行政学院）的应急培训课程，在中小学甚至幼儿园都要普遍开展减灾训练，更好地普及相关知识，提高国民防疫防灾、应急救灾的能力。
I personally recommend learning from overseas training systems that are relatively sound in emergency management, including adding relevant specialties for emergency response to sudden public health emergencies and natural disasters, strengthening the emergency training courses of the Central Party School (National School of Administration), and carrying out disaster reduction training in primary and secondary schools and even kindergartens.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
王振耀：疫情前所未见，需要跨部门协调响应，也要避免叠床架屋。
Wang Zhenyao: The epidemic is unprecedented and requires a coordinated response across sectors and the avoidance of duplication.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "王振耀：疫情前所未见，需要跨部门协调响应，也要避免叠床架屋";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wang Zhenyao: Never before has an outbreak required a coordinated response across sectors, and should avoid duplication or duplication;;
var msg_desc = "突发灾害在变，从传统单一灾害，变得更复杂、更跨界；应急管理也得变，传统条块分割的专业处置，单打独斗遇到了不小";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; sudden-onset disasters are changing, from traditional single-hazard to more complex and transboundary; emergency management has also changed, with traditional, segmented expertise and a stand-alone battle with AT & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
