线上问诊：抗击疫情的“第二战场”。
On-line consultation: the "second battleground" against the epidemic.
丁宁。
Tinin.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
线上问诊主要针对轻症患者进行病情初步判断并提供建议，对于重症患者还是建议到线下门诊就医。
On-line consultation mainly for patients with mild cases of the initial diagnosis and advice, or for patients with severe illness or to recommend out-patient treatment.
文 | 丁 宁 编 辑 | 沈 小 山21岁的张宁在家已经咳嗽了半个月，走到了发热门诊门口，却因为担心交叉感染，又返回了家。
At home, Zhang Ning, 21, has been coughing at home for half a month and at the door of a fever clinic before returning home for fear of cross-infection.
坐立不安时，张宁发现了朋友圈中转载的微医“线上问诊”链接。
fidgeting, Zhang Ning found in the circle of friends reprinted in the micro-medicine "online consultation" link.
抱着试试看的态度，张宁将自己的症状在线发给了医生：“夜里咳嗽，没有发烧症状，无武汉旅行史，没有接触肺炎病患。
Taking a try, Zhang Ning sent his symptoms online to his doctor: "Cough at night, no fever symptoms, no Wuhan travel history, no contact with pneumonia patients.
”十分钟后，张宁得到了医生“建议在家观察”的回复意见。
Ten minutes later, Zhang Ning received the doctor's "suggested home observation" response.
而此前，她从未使用过“线上问诊”功能。
Previously, she had never used the "online consultation" function.
张宁告诉南都周刊，她每天早起看到新闻中增加的确诊人数数字，都怀疑自己可能有患病的风险。
Zhang Ning told Nandu Weekly that she gets up early every day to see the number of confirmed cases added to the news, and suspects she may be at risk.
从武汉读书回家之后的李翔也有着类似的焦虑。
Li Xiang had similar anxieties when he returned home from his studies in Wuhan.
李翔说，自己回家已经超过10天了，期间好像有一点感冒发烧，但只有37.3度，也没有咳嗽的症状。
Mr. Li said he had been home for more than 10 days with a flu fever, but only 37.3 degrees and no cough.
体温计不离手，不敢与家人过多交谈，整日考虑是否要去医院，已成为了李翔的日常写照。
The thermometer does not leave hand, dare not talk too much with the family, day in and day out to consider whether to go to the hospital, has become a daily portrayal of Li Xiang.
直到昨天，线上呼吸科医生告诉李翔“建议待在家里，不用害怕，按照这个症状在家里隔离就行”，他才稍微放下心来。
Until yesterday, the online ventilator told Li Xiang, "I suggest staying at home, don't be afraid, just stay at home and isolate yourself according to the symptoms."
图为受访者提供的线上问诊截图随着新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊人数激增，不少人陷入了去医院还是在家观察的两难纠结中。
Pictured here is a snapshot of online consultations provided by the respondents. As the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus infection rises sharply, many people find themselves in a dilemma of going to hospital or observing from home.
“线上问诊”成为了不少人就医的第二条途径。
"On-line consultation" has become a second way for many people to seek medical treatment.
“线上问诊”是否靠谱？目前有哪些正规平台？应当如何正确使用？“线上问诊”火爆弹出消息框、询问病情、回复患者……除夕夜，四川省人民医院呼吸内科主治医师张燕是守着手机过的。
"On-line consultation" depends on the spectrum? What is the current formal platform? How to use it correctly? "On-line consultation" pop-up pop-up box, asking questions, answering patients... On New Year's Eve, Sichuan People's Hospital Respiratory Physician Zhang Yan guarded the mobile phone.
最近几天，张燕在网络上不间断地进行义诊，截至1月27日已接诊患者近800名。
In recent days, Zhang Yan has been conducting free consultations on the Internet without interruption. As of January 27, nearly 800 patients had been treated.
刚刚结束一天的线下门诊，27日晚上8点钟，深圳市儿童医院呼吸内科主任徐建强又拿起了手机，开始在线上回复患者的咨询。
Just after the day's off-line clinic, 27 evening, 8 p.m., Shenzhen Children's Hospital Respiratory Director Xu Jianqiang picked up the mobile phone, began to respond to patients online consultation.
“问诊的家长都非常焦虑，心理压力很大，我都是在空隙的时间回复家长的问题。
"The parents were very anxious and stressed, and I was responding to my parents' questions during the break.
”徐建强说。
"said Xu.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情期间，与张燕、徐建强一样在线上接诊的医生过万名。
The new coronavirus infection during the pneumonia epidemic, and Zhang Yan, Xu Jianqiang on-line access to doctors more than 10,000.
截至1月28日上午10时，“平安好医生”累计接诊疫情相关问诊94.8万次；截至1月29日上午9时，“微医”平台上共有12775名义诊医生，累计提供了约62万例咨询，平台累计访问量达7千万次。
As of 10 a.m. on January 28, "safe good doctors" had received 948,000 consultation consultations related to the epidemic; as of 9 a.m. on January 29, there were 12,775 volunteer doctors on the "micro-medicine" platform, providing a cumulative total of 620,000 consultations and 70 million visits to the platform.
在平台界面的下方，可以看到几乎每分钟都有来自全国各地的医生“持续应援中。
Beneath the platform's interface, doctors from around the country can be seen "continuously responding" almost every minute.
”据财新网报道，在多个在线医疗平台上，湖北地区问诊人数持续涌入，最高可达每小时3000人次。
Hubei province continues to see an influx of medical consultations on multiple online medical platforms, up to a maximum of 3,000 per hour, Caixin reported.
南方医科大学深圳医院耳鼻喉科主任陈向军在接受采访时表示，“各地尤其是武汉地区医疗资源紧张，线上问诊是此次疫情中一个很重要的辅助战场”。
"Medical resources are tight everywhere, especially in Wuhan," Chen Xiangjun, director of the otorhinolaryngology department at the Shenzhen Hospital of Southern Medical University, said in an interview.
图为“平安好医生”医师正在进行在线问诊何为“线上问诊”？“线上问诊”源于互联网背景下的“移动医疗”，又称“非接触式医疗”，与传统医疗方式中医患双方的“接触”相对应。
The picture shows a doctor who is conducting an online consultation on what is meant by "on-line consultation." The online consultation comes from "mobile medicine," also known as "contactless medical care," in the context of the Internet, corresponding to the "contact" between doctors and patients in traditional medicine.
“线上问诊”中的医患双方无需见面，通过文字、图片、语音等方式，在互联网平台上进行非接触性质的信息交流。
"On-line consultation" in the doctor and patient do not need to meet, through text, pictures, voice and other means, on the Internet platform for non-contact nature of information exchange.
目前，由于部分地区就医人数过多，医疗资源承压，武汉协和医院、武汉同济医院、无锡市第三人民医院、四川省人民医院等均在线上针对此次新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎开设“发热门诊”咨询渠道。
At present, due to the over-representation of doctors and the pressure on medical resources in some areas, Wuhan Concoravirus Hospital, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuxi Third People's Hospital and Sichuan People's Hospital are all online consulting channels for the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia.
“阿里健康”“丁香医生”“平安好医生”“好大夫”“微医”、腾讯微信等平台也均提供相关的“线上问诊”服务。
"Ali Health", "Doctor Lilac" "Good Doctor," "Good Doctor," "Micromedicine," Tencent micro-letter and other platforms also provide relevant "online consultation" services.
根据2018年国家卫健委发布的《互联网诊疗管理办法》，医疗机构不得对首诊患者开展互联网诊疗活动。
According to the Measures on the Administration of Internet Diagnosis and Treatment issued by the National Health Commission in 2018, medical institutions are not allowed to conduct Internet consultations for first-time patients.
因此，目前在线医疗平台提供的大多仅为轻问诊，即提供建议，而非下诊断和开处方。
As a result, the majority of online medical platforms currently offer only minor consultations, i.e. advice, rather than diagnosis and prescription.
图为“微医”和“平安好医生”APP的 “线上问诊”平台如何使用“线上问诊”？使用“线上门诊”之前，首先要对病情有基础的判断。
The picture shows how the "online consultation" platform of the "Microphysician" and "Good Doctor of Peace" APP uses "on-line consultation"?
根据1月24日《柳叶刀》针对首批41例患者发表的研究显示，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者临床表现有发热（98%，40例），咳嗽（76%，31例）和疲劳（44%，18例）。
According to a January 24 Lancet study of the first 41 patients, the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia showed fever (98%, 40 cases), cough (76%, 31 cases) and fatigue (44%, 18 cases).
超过一半的患者还出现呼吸困难（55%，22例），但头痛（8%，3例）和腹泻（3%，1例）少见。
More than half of the patients also had dyspnea (55%, 22 cases), but headache (8%, 3 cases) and diarrhea (3%, 1 case) were rare.
张燕在接受南都周刊采访时表示，只要患者没有流行病学史（即流行病学接触史，在现阶段指在咳嗽、发烧等发病症状两周内存在湖北旅游史，特别是武汉旅游史，或与湖北发热病人有接触史的人）、发热、咳嗽或者是呼吸困难等严重症状，建议在线上咨询后在家休息，时时监测体温即可。
In an interview with Nandu Weekly, Zhang Yan suggested that as long as the patient does not have an epidemiological history (i.e. epidemiological exposure history, at this stage it means that there is a history of travel in Hubei within two weeks of onset of symptoms such as cough, fever, or contact with a patient with fever in Hubei Province), fever, cough or breathing difficulties.
据《西安晚报》，西安交大二附院感染科专家表示：冬春季节本就是呼吸道疾病高发季节，日常生病中经常出现的打喷嚏、流涕症状并不是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的常见症状。
According to Xi'an Evening News, experts from the Infection Division of Xi'an Jiaotong University Second Affiliated College said: The winter and spring season is the season of high incidence of respiratory diseases.
如果没有武汉接触史，更有可能是普通感冒、流感、支气管炎等。
If there is no Wuhan contact history, more likely is common cold, flu, bronchitis and so on.
因此，有轻微不适不必扎堆发热门诊，以免导致交叉感染，也给有限的医疗资源增加负担。
As a result, there is no need to set up a heating clinic for minor ailments, which could lead to cross-infection and place an additional burden on limited medical resources.
深圳市儿童医院呼吸内科主任徐建强在接受南都周刊采访时表示，如果小孩出现了发烧1～2天，但温度不是很高（38.5度以下）的情况下，可以自己在家里多喝水，平衡饮食，多吃含有维生素C的水果、蔬菜之类。
If a child has a fever for 1-2 days but the temperature is not very high (38.5 degrees), he can drink more water at home, eat a balanced diet and eat fruits and vegetables with vitamin C, Xu Jianqiang, director of respiratory medicine at Shenzhen Children's Hospital, told Nandu Weekly.
但如果发热时间长或出现高热或伴随出现了头痛、全身乏力、精神差等症状，家长要及时带孩子到医院就诊。
However, if the fever time is long or high fever, or accompanied by headache, general fatigue, mental illness, and other symptoms, parents should take their children to the hospital in time.
完成基本判断后，到哪里寻找正规平台？目前，除了部分医院的公众号开设了线上问诊平台，还有部分医疗平台也专设了“线上问诊”分区。
After completing the basic judgment, where to find a formal platform? At present, in addition to some hospitals have opened the public number on-line consultation platform, and some medical platforms also set up a special "online consultation" sub-division.
以同济医院为例，可下载“掌上同济”APP,注册后找“在线问诊-发热门诊”进行线上咨询。
Take Tongji Hospital as an example, you can download the "Palm Tongji" APP, register and find "online consultation - fever clinic" for on-line consultation.
1月25日，腾讯微信也开辟了“城市服务-发热门诊”和微信搜一搜“在线问诊”两种方式为患者提供线上咨询服务。
On January 25, Tencent Micromail also set up "urban services - fever clinic" and micro-letter search "online consultation" two ways to provide patients with online consulting services.
截至1月28日，武汉协和医院、绵阳市第三人民医院、韶关市第一人民医院、广州中医药大学金沙洲医院、中山大学附属第七医院、南方医科大学第三附属医院等十余家公立医院自愿接入在线问诊专区。
As of January 28, more than a dozen public hospitals, including Wuhan Heping Hospital, Mianyang Third People's Hospital, Shaoguan First People's Hospital, Golden Sha Chau Hospital of Guangzhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Seventh Hospital of Zhongshan University and Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University, volunteered to access the online consultation area.
其中，武汉协和医院投入了320名医生进行24小时轮流问诊，一天内接诊了1.2万名患者。
Among them, Wuhan Concorde Hospital invested 320 doctors in 24-hour rotating consultation, a day to receive 12,000 patients.
宜昌市中心人民医院有200多名医生入驻，在线问诊上线后的四五个小时内，有超过4000名市民进行咨询。
More than 200 doctors were admitted to Yichang Central People's Hospital, and more than 4,000 people were consulted within four or five hours of the online consultation.
此外，在支付宝界面搜索“问专家”也可以找到新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎问诊专区。
In addition, the pay treasure interface search "ask experts" can also find the new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia consultation area.
图为支付界面的线上问诊“由于此次传染病的特殊性，互联网不受场地、时间等要素限制的特性发挥了功能，关于此次疫情的心理救助也可以通过互联网大面积地开展。
Due to the particularity of this infectious disease, the Internet is not limited by the location, time and other factors to play a role in the performance of psychological assistance on the epidemic can also be carried out on a large scale through the Internet.
”国家心理危机干预专家组成员、温州医科大学附属康宁医院精神科主任医师、教授，温州医科大学心理危机干预中心主任唐伟在接受采访时表示，由于线上问诊在信息沟通渠道、信息总量、交流深度、信息准确度等方面都会受限，医务工作者也都是摸着石头过河。
In an interview, Tang Wei, a psychiatrist and professor at Wenzhou Medical University's Kang Ning Hospital, a member of the National Psychological Crisis Intervention Team, said that because online consultation is limited in terms of information channels, the total amount of information, the depth of communication, the accuracy of information, etc., medical workers also cross the river by feeling stones.
“线上问诊一定程度上可以减少交叉感染的风险，但像咽喉的情况、肺部听诊、血常规化验、病毒核酸筛查等，在线上确实没办法完成。
"Online consultations can reduce the risk of cross-infection to some extent, but things like pharyngeal status, pulmonary auscultation, routine blood testing, viral nucleic acid screening and so on, can't really be done online.
”张燕表示，线上问诊主要针对轻症患者进行病情初步判断并提供建议，对于重症患者还是建议到线下门诊就医。
Zhang said the online consultation focused on early diagnosis and advice for people with mild illness, and for patients with severe illness, outpatient consultation was recommended.
“线上问诊”是否规范？在线问诊医生是否都有医师执照？如何确保医生的信息真实可靠？微信相关负责人周豫在接受采访时表示，微信平台上线均为正规公立医院机构，医生均为所属医院的执业医师。
"On-line consultation" is standardized? Are doctors licensed online? How to ensure the doctor's information is truthful and reliable?
“微医”相关负责人告诉南都周刊，参与抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的医生可在线自主报名，提交医生身份证、执业证、职称证等证照信息。
The official in charge of "micromedicine" told Nandu Weekly that doctors involved in fighting pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection could sign up online and submit medical certificates, practising certificates and titles.
在认证环节，“微医”会对申请者进行人像的活体检测，将活体人像与身份证上的照片比对，确保是申请者本人操作。
In the authentication process, the "micro-medical" will carry out the image of the applicant live testing, the living human figure and the identity card on the photo comparison, to ensure that the applicant is personally operating.
但在采访过程中，有患者反映，非呼吸科的医生也在线上回答肺炎症状相关的问题。
But during the interview, patients reported that non-respiratory doctors also answered questions about pneumonia symptoms online.
有些平台前期是AI分诊，回复速度非常快，但机器设定的固定回答偶尔出现答非所问的现象。
Some platforms are AI early diagnosis, the speed of recovery is very fast, but machine-set fixed answers occasionally appear the phenomenon of answering questions.
图为受访对象提供新冠病毒线上门诊医生简介对此，武汉协和医院在接受采访时表示，目前，医院快速制定了此次疫情的筛选、救治预防细则，医护人员均经过基础培训后进行线上服务。
At present, hospitals have quickly worked out the detailed rules for screening, treating and preventing the outbreak, and the medical staff have undergone basic training to provide on-line services, the spokesman said in an interview.
南方医科大学深圳医院耳鼻喉科主任陈向军则向南都周刊透露，参与“微医”线上问诊的医生建有一个微信群，对于自己拿不准的问题，医生们会在群里相互讨论。
Chen Xiangjun, director of the otorhinolaryngology department at the Shenzhen Hospital of the Southern Medical University, told Nandu Weekly that doctors involved in "micromedicine" online consultations had a small group of doctors who discussed their doubts among themselves.
“平安好医生”的线上问诊采用“AI＋真人”模式，前端是智能导诊在应答，然后根据具体病情描述分诊给医生解答。
"Safe good doctor" on-line consultation uses "AI + life" mode, the front end is intelligent consultation in the answer, and then according to the specific disease description to the doctor solution.
除了物理治疗，“微医”平台还开设了线上心理援助。
In addition to physical therapy, the "Micromedicine" platform offers online psychological assistance.
唐伟表示，此次新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎可能造成的心理问题也不能忽视。
Tang Wei said that the new coronavirus infection pneumonia may cause psychological problems can not be ignored.
目前接诊患者从地域上可以分为湖北省内、省外两种人员，从身体健康状况可以分为无隔离状况、家人在隔离而自己未隔离、自己正在被隔离及自己已被确诊等不同人群。
At present, patients can be divided into two groups: those in Hubei province and those outside, and those who can be divided into non-isolated health status, isolated family members who are not isolated, being isolated and having been diagnosed.
患病症状也分为焦虑、惊恐发作、躯体化障碍、抑郁、睡眠障碍、强迫症、应激性障碍等不同症状。
Symptoms include anxiety, panic attacks, somatization disorders, depression, sleep disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder and stress disorders.
“线上心理援助无法获知患者的表情、动作、肢体语言及其所处环境的安全状况，恰当的语言交流变得十分重要，如何在线上开始话题、结束话题，都是对医务工作者的巨大考验。
"Online psychological support fails to capture a patient's facial expressions, movements, body language and the safety of his or her environment. Proper language communication becomes very important, and how to start and end a conversation online is a great test for health care workers.
线上心理医生还应该具备医学、心理学背景及心理危机干预的实践经验。
Online psychologists should also have a medical, psychological background and psychological crisis intervention experience.
有些患者需要转介到线下医院，但我们现在联系不到，如果能实现线上、线下的精准对接，就更好了。
Some patients need to be referred to an offline hospital, but we can't get in touch now, so much the better if we can achieve accurate docking online and offline.
”唐伟呼吁道。
"he called.
图为正在进行线上心理救助的唐伟湖北人陈向军此刻也在深圳进行线上接诊。
The picture shows Chen Xiangjun, a native of Tang Wei Hubei who is providing online psychological assistance, who is also receiving treatment online in Shenzhen.
17年前，他曾在“非典”疫情中奋斗在湖北省十堰市一线。
Seventeen years ago, he struggled with the SARS epidemic in Shiyan City, Hubei Province.
在采访过程中，提到自己正在武汉同济、协和医院“奋战”的百余名同学，他几度哽咽，“武汉第一个牺牲的医生就是我们耳鼻喉科的，我在第二战场随时准备着，冲到前线。
During the interview, he mentioned that he is Wuhan Tongji, Concorde Hospital "fighting" more than 100 students, he several times choked, "Wuhan's first sacrifice of the doctor is our ear, nose and throat, I am ready in the second battlefield, rushed to the front.
”（文中出现的张宁、李翔均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + + +
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
线上问诊：抗击疫情的“第二战场”。
On-line consultation: the "second battleground" against the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "线上问诊：抗击疫情的“第二战场”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; online consultation: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "​线上问诊主要针对轻症患者进行病情初步判断并提供建议，对于重症患者还是建议到线下门诊就医。
var msg _ desc = & quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
