一个人干两个人的活，物流企业抗疫复工。
A person doing two people's work, logistics enterprises to fight back to work against the disease.
王静仪。
Wang Jingyi.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
人员返岗难、道路不畅通、现金流紧绷，中小物流企业需要更多的支持和帮助，这不仅事关物流业全面复工复产，也关系到民生和社会稳定文 |《财经》记者 王静仪编辑 | 施智梁快递员王为这几天已经忙昏了头，他所在的上海市浦东新区某网点只有一半员工按时返工，“太累了，一个人要送两个人的区域。
Small and medium-sized logistics enterprises need more support and help. Not only is the logistics industry fully back to work, but it also matters to people's livelihood and social stability.
”距离快递公司2月10日全面复工已经过去了十多天，产能仍然难以爬坡。
More than a decade after the express company resumed full operations on February 10, production capacity is still difficult to climb.
根据国家邮政局2月19日的统计，产能不足一半。
According to the National Post Office on February 19, less than half the capacity.
卡车的车轮跑起来，国民经济的供应链才能转起来。
The wheels of the truck began to run and the supply chain of the national economy began to turn.
小件快递运输影响了居民的日常消费，大宗货运体系也制约了制造业复工。
Small express shipments have affected residents' daily consumption, and the bulk freight system has constrained the resumption of manufacturing.
据全国道路货运车辆公共监管与服务平台数据，全国重型货运车辆节后开工形势不佳，正月十五前后行业开工率仅为往年的四分之一。
According to data from the National Platform for Public Regulation and Service of Road Freight Vehicles, construction of heavy cargo vehicles across the country has been poor, with only a quarter of the industry starting around the fifteenth month of January.
但是不少员工还困在老家，卡车在高速上处处碰壁，复工必备的口罩难寻，物流企业复工成本高企，现金流紧绷。
But many workers are stuck at home, trucks are bumping along highways, masks are hard to find, logistics companies are back to work at high costs, cash flow is tight.
在紧张的防疫态势下，全国多地城市间的公共交通停运，一些村庄甚至全面“封村”，不少回家过年的员工不愿也不能返回工作所在地。
Under the tense situation of epidemic prevention, many cities across the country to stop public transport, some villages even "closed villages", many workers who returned home for the New Year are unwilling and unable to return to work.
返回之后，隔离14天的要求也加剧了用工难题。
The requirement of 14 days of isolation after return also exacerbates the employment challenge.
“我们需要把卡车司机从被窝里喊出来。
"We need to yell the truck driver out of bed.
”物流信息服务商路歌的CEO冯雷对《财经》记者说。
Feng Lei, chief executive of Lu Song, the logistics information service provider, told Caijing.
更重要的是，各地交通管制制约了物流行业的运转。
More importantly, traffic control everywhere restricts the operation of the logistics industry.
《财经》记者从长久物流(603569.SH)副总裁张振鹏处了解到，截止2月20日中午12点，全国可顺畅通行的城市只占一半，多个城市禁止大车下高速或者情况时时变动。
Zhang Zhenpeng, vice-president of Long-term Logistics (60359.SH), told Caijing that as of 12: 00 noon on Feb. 20, only half of the cities in the country were accessible, with many cities banning big cars or changing the situation from time to time.
天津乾海物流有限公司总经理蔺宜坤很忧心。
Lin Yikun, general manager of Tianjin Qianhai Logistics Co. Ltd, is worried.
“2月业绩大幅衰退，亏损是必然的。
"February was a sharp downturn and losses were inevitable.
3月是否恢复、能恢复到何种程度都将直接影响企业的运转，甚至生存。
Whether and to what extent it can be restored in March will have a direct impact on the functioning, and even the survival, of enterprises.
但是现实是开源无门，以裁员、降薪的方式节流也不合适。
But the reality is that there is no way to open source, and cutting jobs and wages is not the way to cut costs.
如此一来，现金流就变得格外紧张。
As a result, cash flow becomes particularly tight.
”当平时习以为常的物流运输陷入停滞，国务院发展研究中心市场经济研究所所长王微评价道，保应急物资和日常必需品的畅通都是物流企业的任务，现在都感到交运和物流行业在国民经济中的巨大作用。
Wang Weiwei, director of the Institute for Market Economics at the Development Research Center of the State Council, said it was the task of logistics companies to ensure the smooth flow of emergency supplies and daily necessities.
人员返岗不易2月10日，这是中通快递(NYSE:ZTO)、申通快递(002468.SZ)、百世集团(NYSE:BEST)、韵达股份(002120.SZ)、德邦股份(603056.SH)等快递公司全面复工的日子。
This is the day when express delivery companies such as NYSE: ZTO, Shentong Express (002468.SZ), Century Group (NYSE: BEST), Randa (002120.SZ) and Deutsche Bank (603056.SH) will not return to work on February 10.
中国邮政、顺丰控股(002352.SZ)、京东物流和苏宁物流等春节期间为正常收派。
China Post, Shunfeng Holdings (002352.SZ), Jingdong Logistics and Suning Logistics and other Spring Festival for the normal distribution.
“一手抓疫情，一手抓复工”，国家邮政局于2月7日同各大快递企业召开专题电话会议提出要求：在2月10日实现绝大部分地区运营全面恢复；计划在本月中旬快递业生产要恢复到正常产能的4成以上；到本月下旬，根据疫情变化和形势发展，继续提高产能比重。
"With one hand on the epidemic and the other on resumption of work," the National Post Office on Feb. 7 held a conference call with major express-delivery companies to demand that the vast majority of operations be fully restored by February 10, that express-delivery production return to more than 40% of normal capacity by mid-February.
各大快递企业于当天紧急召开全网工作视频会议响应，2月10日，主要企业纷纷复工。
Major express enterprises in the same day emergency network work videoconference response, February 10, the main enterprises have resumed work.
“现在已经进入防疫的下一个阶段，重点要转入复产复工，为社会、为百姓提供服务。
"Now has entered the next phase of epidemic prevention, the focus will be on the resumption of production, for the community, for the people to provide services.
”《财经》记者从圆通速递(600233.SH)副总裁相峰处了解到。
Caijing asked Xiangfeng, vice-president of Yuantong Express (600233. SH).
名为全面复工，消费者的感受却不甚不同。
The feeling of consumers is not so different when it comes to getting back to work.
在国家邮政局宣布复工消息的微博评论区内，清一色都是类似“我的快递已经在转运中心停了7天了”对低下效率的抱怨。
In the Weibo comment area, where the post office announced the resumption of work, it was all similar to the complaint about inefficiency that "my courier has been at the transit center for seven days."
圆通速递相关人士告诉《财经》记者，全面复工意味着除了疫区和政府管控严格地区之外的所有网点正常运营，但目前只有80%员工返岗，业务量是正常状态的四成。
Full resumption of work means that only 80% of employees are back on duty, compared with 40% of normal operations, except in affected areas and areas under strict government control, Caijing told Caijing.
全面复工多日后，产能仍然难以爬坡。
Full resumption of work many days later, capacity is still difficult to climb.
根据国家邮政局2月19日的统计，快递业的产能是平时的4成以上。
According to the February 19 statistics of the National Post Office, express delivery capacity is more than 40% of the usual.
2月17日，全国快件揽收量1.12亿件，达到正常业务量的6成，投递量超过8000万件，仅为正常业务量的4成多。
On February 17, express mail nationwide collected 112 million pieces, accounting for 60 percent of the normal volume of business, and delivered more than 80 million pieces, just over 40 percent of the normal volume of business.
据全国道路货运车辆公共监管与服务平台数据分析显示，全国重型货运车辆节后开工形势不佳，正月十五前后行业开工率仅为往年的四分之一。
According to the national road freight vehicles public regulation and service platform data analysis showed that the national heavy cargo vehicles after the festival started a bad situation, around the first 15 months of the industry only about a quarter of the previous year.
其中，湖北车辆开工率不到往年的10%。
Among them, Hubei vehicle start rate is less than 10% of previous years.
2 月10日后车辆开工率持续回升，但是回升速度较为缓慢。
Vehicle start-up rates continued to recover after 10 February, but at a slower pace.
中通快递上海市浦东新区某网点的快递员王为这几天已经忙昏了头。
Shanghai Pudong Express express delivery of a branch of express delivery Wang for the last few days has been busy.
他所在的网点只有一半员工按时返工，于是分摊到每个快递员身上的任务大大增多，“太累了，一个人要送两个人的区域。
Only half of his network restarted on time, and the number of tasks assigned to each courier increased dramatically. "Too tired to deliver two people alone."
”员工返岗难是快递企业要面临的头号难题。
The difficulty of returning employees is the number one problem for express delivery companies.
受疫情防控的影响，全国多地城市间的公共交通停运，一些村庄甚至全面“封村”，不少回家过年的员工不愿也不能返回工作所在地。
As a result of the epidemic, public transportation between cities has been suspended in many parts of the country, and some villages have been completely "closed".
国家邮政局2019年发布的快递员生存现状调查报告显示，76.31%的快递员来自农村，15.89%的快递员来自县城，7.8%来自城市。
According to the report on the current situation of couriers in 2019 by the National Post Office, 76.31 per cent of couriers come from rural areas, 15.89 per cent from county capitals and 7.8 per cent from cities.
“我们需要把卡车司机从被窝里喊出来。
"We need to yell the truck driver out of bed.
”物流信息服务商路歌的CEO冯雷对《财经》记者形象地说道。
Feng Lei, chief executive of road song, the logistics information service provider, told Caijing.
即使回到工作所在地，隔离14天的要求也加剧了用工难题。
Even when returned to the place of work, the 14-day isolation requirement exacerbates the employment challenge.
目前北京市要求，所有返京人员抵京后需居家或集中观察14天。
Beijing now requires all returning Beijing personnel to stay at home or focus on observation for 14 days after arrival.
此前北京市曾通报一确诊病例，其从外地返京后未主动居家隔离14天即正常上班，导致单位数十人作为密切接触者被隔离。
Beijing had previously notified a confirmed case, after returning to Beijing from outside the home isolation for 14 days before the normal work, resulting in dozens of units as close contacts were isolated.
“人员复工率不足，对于收派、转运都有影响。
"The inadequate rate of return to work has an impact on the reception and transit of workers.
每年员工只有过年一次假期，以往节后返工对于快递企业来说都是困难和挑战，今年的挑战更是数量级的上升，直接导致效率降低、成本上升。
With only one holiday a year, rework after the holidays is difficult and challenging for express delivery companies. This year's challenges are orders of magnitude higher, leading directly to lower efficiency and higher costs.
”《财经》记者从相峰处了解到。
"Caijing" reporters from Xiangfeng learned.
一些地方政府已经在积极行动，帮助企业解决复工荒。
Some local governments are already taking positive action to help businesses cope with the labour shortage.
以浙江宁波市为例，当地物流协会应市政府要求，组织高铁专列，从安徽阜阳、四川成都、江西南昌和河南周口，免费运送企业员工直达宁波。
In Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, for example, the local logistics association, at the request of the city government, organized special trains for high-speed trains from Fuyang in Anhui, Chengdu in Sichuan, Nanchang in Jiangxi and Zhoukou in Henan Province.
要想复工，得买口罩。
To get back to work, buy a mask.
作为劳动密集型行业，一家快递公司的城市转运中心就有上千名员工，对于口罩等防疫保障物资的需求极大，但是在全国防护物资采购难的大背景下，企业采购普遍受挫，“现在口罩已经是有价无市。
As a labor-intensive industry, the city transit center of a courier company has thousands of employees, and the demand for epidemic prevention supplies such as masks is great. However, against the background of difficulties in purchasing protective materials nationwide, business procurement has generally been frustrated.
而且各地标准不一，有的地方要准备十天的口罩，有的要准备一个月”，杭州松松供应链管理有限公司总经理高松对《财经》记者说。
And standards vary from 10 days of masks to a month of preparation, Gao Song, general manager of Hangzhou Songsong Supply Chain Management, told Caijing.
道路待畅通，企业现金流紧绷交通运输部、国家邮政局和中国邮政集团公司在2月8日联合印发紧急通知，要求“各高速公路、国省干线公路、农村公路不得非法禁止或限制邮政、快递车辆正常通行(包括始发或途经重点疫情地的邮政、快递运输车辆)，不得随意扣押邮件、快件、车辆及驾押人员。
The Ministry of Transport, National Post Office and China Post Corporation jointly issued an emergency notice on February 8, demanding that "normal postal and express vehicles, including those originating from or passing through key epidemic areas, be prohibited or restricted on highways, highways and rural roads, and that postal and express vehicles not be impounded at will.
”但在紧张的防疫态势下，各地道路难言畅通，交通管制仍是制约物流行业的重要因素。
But under the tense situation of epidemic prevention, traffic control is still an important factor restricting the logistics industry.
《财经》记者从主营整车物流的长久物流副总裁张振鹏处了解到，截止2月20日中午12点，全国限行的城市有68个，即不让大车下高速；162个城市不确定，情况时时变动；251个可进入。
Zhang Zhenpeng, vice-president of long-term logistics at Caijing, learned that as of 12: 00 noon on Feb. 20, there were 68 cities across the country where carts were not allowed to leave the expressway.
这意味着，全国可顺畅通行的城市只占一半。
This means that only half of the cities in the country are accessible.
不少卡车司机曾被交警要求在高速公路服务区上自我隔离。
Many truckers have been asked by traffic police to isolate themselves in motorway service areas.
一周前，陕西司机杨冰满载一车口罩前往四川达州，尽管他不曾进入湖北疫区，也被要求在驾驶室内自我隔离四日，再进入达州市区。
A week ago, Shaanxi driver Yang Bing filled a load of masks on his way to Sichuan state. Although he did not enter the Hubei epidemic area, he was asked to isolate himself in the cab for four days before entering the Dazhou district.
一头是焦急的客户，一头是谨慎的基层执法者，物流企业进退两难，面临复工后效率低下的问题。
At one end are anxious customers and at the other are cautious law enforcement officers at the grass-roots level.
“各地秉持守土有责的原则，跨省运输的驾驶员出去了再回来要隔离14天，虽然所有车都复工了，但是实际复工率非常低。
"In keeping with the principle of holding the ground to account, the transprovincial drivers went out and came back for 14 days. Although all the cars were back to work, the actual rate of return to work was very low.
”贵州丰茂运输有限公司副总经理李青桁告诉《财经》记者。
Li Qingqiang, deputy general manager of Guizhou Fengmao Transport Co. Ltd, told Caijing.
长三角区域对于道路运输的限制正在放开。
Restrictions on road transport in the Yangtze River Delta region are being liberalized.
2月16日，上海市交通委发布了“长三角疫情防控交通运输一体化货运车辆通行证”，即日起，符合防疫条件的企业和员工可以在输入相关信息后，获取电子版“货通证”，持证货运车辆在长三角可便捷通行，持证人员回沪无须再次隔离14天。
On February 16, the Shanghai Municipal Transport Committee issued the "Passport for Transportation Integrated Cargo Transport in the Yangtze River Delta Epidemic Prevention and Control," which means that enterprises and employees eligible for epidemic prevention can obtain electronic "Cargo Pass" after entering relevant information.
疫情期间，众多物流企业都在践行企业社会责任，进行免费运输；但后续如果无法开展正常的运输经营活动，司机就还不上车贷，企业也入不敷出。
During the epidemic, many logistics companies are carrying out corporate social responsibility, free transport; but if the normal transport operations can not be carried out, the driver will not get on the car loan, enterprises can not pay.
根据中国物流与采购联合会于2003年发布的《SARS对物流业影响的调查报告》统计，75%的物流企业受到不同程度的负面影响，其中导致收入减少的占62%，造成成本上升的占70%。
According to the report on the impact of SARS on logistics published by the China Logistics and Purchasing Federation in 2003, 75% of logistics enterprises were negatively affected to varying degrees, with 62% of the decrease in revenue and 70% of the increase in costs.
疫情影响下，物流企业受困于业务量减少。
Influenced by the epidemic, logistics enterprises are suffering from a decline in business volume.
李青桁很担心，由于上下游厂家的物流需求急剧降低，部分厂家的物流需求又无法及时得到满足，公司的正常生产经营和商誉受到影响。
Mr. Li worried that because of the lower and upper manufacturers' demand for logistics, some manufacturers can not be satisfied in time, the company's normal production and operation and reputation are affected.
针对企业成本增多而收入降低的情况，甘肃省物流与信息技术研究院院长王久梗认为，成本方面需要政府减税减费，收入方面政府应该重点补贴应急物流，以往政府在应急基础设施的投入是很不到位的。
Wang Jiudui, director of the Gansu Provincial Institute of Logistics and Information Technology, argues that government spending on emergency infrastructure has been inadequate in the past, given the need for government tax cuts and revenue cuts, and that the government should focus on subsidizing emergency logistics.
目前，主流商用车企业已允许卡车司机申请延迟还贷，物流企业也已享受到减免社保、延交公积金等国家政策利好。
At present, mainstream commercial vehicles enterprises have allowed truck drivers to apply for late repayment of loans, logistics enterprises have also benefited from social security relief, the extension of provident fund and other national policies.
交通运输部印发通知，2月17日零时起至疫情防控工作结束，全国收费公路免收车辆通行费。
The Ministry of Transport issued a notice that toll roads throughout the country would be exempted from toll fees from 0 p.m. on 17 February until the end of epidemic prevention and control efforts.
结合各上市快递公司财报数据，这项费用减免有望为企业节省30%左右的成本。
The fee cut is expected to save companies about 30 per cent of their costs, combined with data reported by listed courier companies.
根据财政部国家税务总局2月7日的公告，将对快递业纳税人运输疫情保障物资取得的收入，免征增值税，以及对提供公共交通运输服务、生活服务、为居民提供必需生活物资快递收派服务取得的收入，免征增值税。
According to the February 7 announcement by the State Administration of Taxation of the Ministry of Finance, revenue from the transportation of epidemic-proof goods to express-delivery taxpayers will be exempted from value-added tax, as well as income from the provision of public transport services, domestic services and express delivery and delivery of essential goods.
但在这样一个中小型企业占多数的行业，现金流紧绷现象仍然突出，多家企业主都向《财经》记者表达了扩宽融资渠道、降低融资成本的希望。
But cash flow is still tight in an industry dominated by small and medium-sized businesses, where many business owners have expressed hope to Caijing about widening access to finance and lowering its cost.
“大家都明白现金流很重要，但是我们每年的盈利基本都投入到生产再扩大中去了，行业的利润率逐年在下降，不扩大规模，就是死亡，我们没办法做到有充足的现金流。
"Everyone knows that cash flow is important, but we basically invest our profits in production and expansion every year. Profit margins in the industry are going down every year.
”拥有几十名员工的天津乾海物流有限公司总经理蔺宜坤说，“我们的生命力很顽强，不需要长期的扶持，只需要短期的扶持。
'Our vitality is tough, and we don't need long-term support, just short-term support, 'said Lin Yikun, general manager of Tianjin Qianhai Logistics Ltd., which employs dozens of people.
”为解决融资难，专注大件运输的日日顺物流正结合上下游企业，一起向银行申请普惠金融。
In order to solve the problem of financing, day-to-day logistics, which focuses on large shipments, is combining upstream and downstream enterprises to apply for financial inclusion with banks.
总经理于贞超说：“金融的普惠政策和用工保险减免对于小微企业都很重要，但这都是金融和人社部门的意见，目前还没有看到针对物流企业单独的政策。
"Financial inclusion policies and employment insurance relief are important for micro and small enterprises," said Yu Zhenchao, general manager. "But this is the opinion of the financial and social sectors, and there is no separate policy for logistics companies.
”圆通速递副总裁相峰认为，快递行业的以往重要经验是加盟制，一个网络带来几千个网点，网点又带来承包区，这些大都是小微企业，而他们的抗风险能力是最弱的。
Xiang Feng, vice-president of round-the-clock express delivery, said the previous key experience in the express delivery industry had been the affiliate system, with thousands of outlets brought in by a network and contract areas, mostly micro and small enterprises, which were the least risk-resistant.
建议相关部门出台政策关注小微企业，这不仅事关物流业全面复工复产，而且关系到民生和社会稳定。
It is suggested that the relevant departments issue policies to pay attention to micro and small enterprises, which is not only related to the full resumption of logistics industry, but also to the livelihood and social stability.
小区难进入，无接触配送成新热点？顺丰速运上海市浦东新区某网点快递员小张已经习惯了在小区门口的寒风中等待，“送一次件要在门口等很久，要确保所有人都拿到，因为担心有人偷快递。
Small area difficult to access, no contact distribution into new hot spots? Shun Fengyun Shanghai Pudong New Area express delivery of a network of small Zhang has been used to waiting in the cold front door, "to send a long time to the door, to ensure that everyone, because of fear of someone stealing express.
”小区门口满地的快递已成为疫情期间的常态。
Express delivery in front of the neighborhood has become the norm during the epidemic.
“一夜之间回到了当年摆摊的时代”，《财经》记者了解到，由于诸多城市小区采取封闭式管理，即使快递柜都在小区里，也不允许快递员进入小区，这使得投递效率大大下降，在末端交付的成本增加。
"Overnight back to the era of stalls," Caijing reporters learned that because of the closed management of many urban areas, even express cabinets are located in small areas and couriers are not allowed to enter the area, which greatly reduces delivery efficiency and increases the cost of end-of-delivery.
丰巢科技CMO李文青近日接受环球网采访时表示，目前丰巢在全国有18万多台柜机，覆盖110多个城市的10万多个小区，其中大概有9000多台快递柜设置在小区内部，受快递员禁入小区的影响，无法被利用。
At present, the company has more than 180,000 lockers covering more than 100,000 small areas in more than 110 cities, including about 9,000 express delivery cabinets in inner neighborhoods that cannot be used because they are off limits to express-delivery workers, Li Wenqing said in a recent interview on the Web.
2月19日，交通运输部、国家邮政局、中国邮政集团有限公司发出紧急通知：低风险地区要全面恢复正常寄递投递秩序；中风险地区要允许快递员在做好防护的情况下，进入小区进行末端投递；在设立智能快件箱的管理区域，应允许其优先将邮件快件通过指定路径直接投递到智能快件箱。
On 19 February, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the National Post Office and China Post Group Limited issued emergency notices: low-risk areas should be fully restored to normal delivery order; medium-risk areas should be allowed to enter the small area for terminal delivery while being protected; and management areas with intelligent express boxes should be allowed to prioritize the direct delivery of mail through the designated routes to the smart express boxes.
快递不能送到家门口了，消费者还需要时间适应。
Express couriers can't get to their homes. Consumers need time to get used to it.
家住上海的陈女士对《财经》记者抱怨道：“有次买了一袋10千克的猫砂，从小区门口搬回家，半条命都没了。
"Once I bought a bag of 10 kg of cat litter and brought it home from the front door of the neighborhood, and half my life was gone," Chen, a Shanghai-based resident, told Caijing.
”在行业人士看来，疫情正是快递业推广“非接触配送”服务的机遇，国家邮政局在2月6日新闻发布会上提出“要积极推广智能快递箱模式”。
The outbreak is seen by industry sources as an opportunity for the express delivery industry to promote "non-contact distribution" services, and the National Post Office said at a press conference on February 6 that "smart express box mode should be actively promoted."
快递行业长期苦于社区配送的“最后一公里”问题。
The express delivery industry has long suffered from the "last mile" problem of community distribution.
圆通速递相关人士对《财经》记者说，这将有助于物流终端的变革和升级，如末端门店、驿站、快递柜越来越被消费者欢迎和认可，这对于快递行业提升终端物流配送效率、优化用户体验来说都具有重要意义。
This will help transform and upgrade logistics terminals, such as end-of-pipe stores, post offices and express delivery cabinets, which are increasingly welcomed and recognized by consumers. This is very important for the express delivery industry to improve the efficiency of logistics distribution and optimize the user experience, "the spokesman told Caijing.
华创证券提出，2019年快递柜存量规模约33万组，预计2025年快递入柜率提升至33%，快递柜存量规模可达200万组。
According to Huacheng Securities, the stock of express-delivery cabinets will reach about 330,000 units in 2019, with an expected increase to 33 per cent by 2025, and express-delivery cabinets of up to 2 million units.
随着主要运营商自身调整结束，以及快递企业加速布局，预计2020年有望迎来快递柜需求爆发，相关产业链有望迎来中长期利好。
With the end of the major operators' own adjustment, as well as the accelerated layout of express delivery enterprises, in 2020 is expected to usher in express cabinet demand, the relevant industrial chain is expected to usher in medium- and long-term good.
物流信息平台山东阿帕网络技术有限公司董事长周纪念对《财经》记者直言，智慧物流的口号已经喊了很多年，但是企业在这次疫情面前依然手提肩扛，表现出在信息化方面的投入不足。
Logistics information platform Shandong Apa Network Technology Co. Ltd. Chairman Zhou Memorial told Caijing that the slogan of wisdom logistics has been shouting for many years, but enterprises still hold hands in the face of the epidemic, showing insufficient investment in information technology.
京东物流已经在疫情中运用了一些科技手段。
Jingdong logistics has used some scientific and technological means in the epidemic situation.
配送机器人被派上疫区前线，以降低高危环境下由配送导致人员感染的风险；在道路封闭的地区，京东物流已准备利用无人机进行配送。
Distribution robots are deployed to the front lines of epidemic areas to reduce the risk of human infection caused by distribution in high-risk environments; in closed areas, Jingdong Logistics is ready to use drones for distribution.
科尔尼管理咨询全球合伙人、供应链物流专家宋旭军告诉《财经》记者，疫情过后，物流行业内会加大对数字化和科技的投资，企业端会更加主动寻找新技术的运用场景，用户端的教育成本和时间也都被大大压缩。
After the outbreak, companies will look more actively for scenarios where new technologies can be deployed, and the cost and time of education for users will be significantly reduced, Song Xujun, a supply chain logistics expert and global partner at Kelney Management Consulting, told Caijing.
国务院发展研究中心市场经济研究所所长王微判断，一季度内疫情对物流企业的短期冲击比较大，二季度的影响会慢慢减弱，因为疫情在得到有效控制，而且消费活动会得到释放，制造业的生产制造会回复，物流业的经营也会走上正轨，影响在下半年会消失。
Wang Weiwei, director of the Institute of Market Economy at the Development Research Center of the State Council, concluded that the short-term impact of the epidemic on logistics enterprises would be greater in the first quarter, and that the impact would gradually diminish in the second quarter as the epidemic was effectively controlled and consumption activities were released.
2020年所有企业的盈利和收入状况会受到比较大的影响，但长期不会改变经济走势，也不会改变物流业加快发展、转型升级的态势。
In 2020, the profitability and income of all enterprises will be more affected, but will not change the economic trend in the long term, nor will it change the logistics industry to accelerate development, transformation and upgrading.
（本刊记者王斌斌、实习生赵知乐对本文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and should not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization. This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个人干两个人的活，物流企业抗疫复工。
A person doing two people's work, logistics enterprises to fight back to work against the disease.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "一个人干两个人的活，物流企业抗疫复工";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "人员返岗难、道路不畅通、现金流紧绷，中小物流企业需要更多的支持和帮助，这不仅事关物流业全面复工复产，也关系到民生和社会稳定";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; difficult return, blocked roads, and tight cash flow. Small and medium-sized logistics companies need more support and help.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
