武汉的城市血管：他们输送食物、温暖与爱。
Wuhan's urban blood vessels: they carry food, warmth and love.
三联.CREATIVE。
Triple. CREATIVE.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
2月2日那天早上6点47分，家住武汉三环外的王莉全副“武装”地出门了。
February 2 that morning at 6: 47, home in Wuhan outside the Third Ring Road Wang Li all "armed" out.
从1月26日武汉封城第三天开始，她就一直在做滴滴社区保障车队的司机志愿者。
Since the third day of Wuhan on January 26, she has been serving as a volunteer driver for drip-drip community support convoys.
口罩、护目镜、防护服，从早上七点出门到晚上七点回家，将近十二个小时都不能卸下，“防护服统一发的，都很大，我个子比较小，感觉可以装下我两个了。
Masks, goggles, protective clothing, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. home, can not be unloaded for nearly 12 hours, "protective clothing issued uniform, are large, I am relatively small, feel can hold me two.
在太阳下十几分钟就会流汗了，仿佛捂着一件不透气的雨衣。
In the sun for a few minutes will sweat, as if covering an airtight raincoat.
”到了义门社区，王莉就接到了一个让她心情沉重的任务，一位感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的病人去世，她需要开车送家属前往医院料理后事。
When she arrived in the community, Wang received a heart-rending assignment for a patient infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia who had to drive her family to hospital to take care of the family.
//陪伴也是对逝者的告慰自从2006年读大学来到武汉，王莉就在这个她眼里“闹哄哄”的大武汉扎下了根儿，成为了一名“新武汉人”。
/ / The companionship is also a consolation to the deceased Wang Li has taken root in what she considers to be a noisy Wuhan and has become a "new Wuhan people.
她平时真没有感觉这么爱武汉，但这一次不一样。
She doesn't usually feel this way about Wuhan, but this time it's different.
我是这座城市的主人，我要为她担当”。
I am the master of this city, and I will bear the blame for it.
大武汉是一个移民城市，这场无妄之灾让无数新武汉人更有了归属感。
Wuhan is a city of immigrants, this wanton disaster so that countless new Wuhan people have a sense of belonging.
2月2日当天到了义门社区后，王莉先把车内进行两遍清洁。
February 2 arrived in the community of Yimeng, Wang Li first inside the car to clean twice.
第一遍使用84消毒液擦拭，然后通风。
Wipe with disinfectant 84 for the first time and then ventilate.
第二遍使用酒精消毒，之后开始接送社区居民。
For the second time, use alcohol to disinfect, and then start taking the community.
王莉正在给后排座位消毒确认用车的家属后，插钥匙、点火、挂档、给油……一连串的动作王莉一气呵成，体现了一个老司机的职业素养，刚刚还有些紧绷的身体随着进入角色松弛了下来。
Wang Li is disinfecting the back seat to confirm the use of the family car, plug in the key, ignition, gear, oil... a series of actions Wang Li into a row, reflects the professional quality of an old driver, just a little tight body into the role of relaxation.
王莉很少在车上主动说话，“减少对话的机会，就是减少彼此之间飞沫传染的机会。
Wang Li rarely takes the initiative to speak on the bus. "To reduce the chances of dialogue is to reduce the chance of contagion.
”但这次王莉主动和病人家属聊天，安慰对方不要太难过。
But this time Wang volunteered to chat with the patient's family to reassure them not to be too upset.
双方都带着护目镜和口罩，尽管彼此看不到表情，但王莉还是希望乘客能感受到自己的关怀。
Both wore goggles and masks, and although she could not see each other's expressions, Wang hoped passengers would feel cared for.
当天武汉在短暂回暖后，再次阴沉，时不时落下雨滴。
Wuhan on the same day after a short warm, once again overcast, from time to time falling rain.
天气阴冷，心中积蓄着的情绪更加压抑。
The weather is cold, the mood that accumulates in the heart is more depressed.
世事无常，谁能想到亲人离去如此突然？空荡荡的武汉长江大桥到了医院，下车前，逝者家属对王莉致谢告别。
The empty Wuhan Yangtze River Bridge reached the hospital, and before I got off the bus, the families of the deceased thanked Wang Li.
按照社区志愿者车辆的管理规定，为了减少感染几率会另安排司机来接返程。
According to community volunteer vehicle regulations, in order to reduce the risk of infection will be arranged for drivers to pick up the return trip.
而那一次，王莉选择留下等待，“你一会儿回去也要用车的，我在这里等你还更方便。
But that time, Wang Li chose to stay and wait. "You'll have to use the car when you get back. It's more convenient for me to wait here.
”她说：“自己能做的不多，在别人最伤心的时候，陪伴也是对逝者的告慰。
"I don't have much to do," she said. "It's comforting to be with someone who is sad.
”回家路上，路过汉口解放大道，王莉看到除了大楼上面写着“武汉加油”，最繁华的武广商场只留下了一块广告牌还在亮着，其余的地方一片暗淡。
On her way home, Wang Li saw that apart from the words "Wuhan refueling" written on top of the building, only a billboard remained on the most prosperous Wu-guang shopping mall.
她打开了车灯，照亮前路。
She turned on the headlights and lit up the road.
来不及伤感，下一位乘客正在某个地方等她。
There was no time to be sad. The next passenger was waiting for her.
//封城了，但城市还要运转1月23日，武汉封城。
/ / The city is closed, but the city still needs to be run. Wuhan Sealed on January 23rd.
大雾弥漫的武汉就在五天前的18日，一个社区还办了万人宴，大部分人都没有想到小小病毒掀起了惊涛骇浪。
Five days ago in Wuhan, a foggy city, a mass dinner was held in a community. Most people did not think of the small virus causing the storm.
不断有人确诊，有人死去，恐惧以及因为未知带来的焦虑逐步蔓延，冲淡了春节将至的喜悦。
People continue to be diagnosed with death, fear and anxiety about the unknown spread, diluting the joy of the upcoming Spring Festival.
愁云笼罩城市，以至于人们觉得——“那段时间就没有晴天”。
Clouds hang over the city so much that people feel like there was no sunny day at that time.
高速运转的城市来了一个急刹车，一时间，稳定而规律的节奏被甩脱了轨。
High-speed operation of the city came to a sudden brake, a stable and regular rhythm was thrown off the track.
首当其冲的就是交通。
The first is transportation.
封城之后，武汉公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，网约出租车也停止运营，巡游出租车实行单双号限行。
After the closure of the city, Wuhan public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport suspended operations, about the network of taxis also stopped operation, cruise taxis to implement single-digit restrictions.
连本地人都会嫌吵闹的大武汉，猛地静止了。
Even the local people will resent the noise of the big Wuhan, suddenly stopped.
2月16日的武汉，街头依旧空荡（王莉/摄)武汉市交通运输局随即发布公告，组织安排6000辆网约车和出租车，分配到全市10个中心城区1159个社区，解决市民的出行问题。
Wuhan Feb. 16, the streets are still empty (Wang Li / She) Wuhan City Transport Bureau immediately issued a notice, the organization of 6,000 network cars and taxis, distributed throughout the city's 10 central urban areas 1159 communities to solve the problem of citizens traveling.
滴滴也在第一时间调配人手，承担了其中绝大部分网约车出行需求。
Drop also in the first deployment of personnel, shouldered the vast majority of the network travel requirements.
1月24日当天，王莉在她担任队长的“绿动六队”微信群内率先报名，并鼓动伙伴们报名，两天后她正式开始志愿服务。
Wang signed up for captain Green Motion 6 on January 24 and urged her partners to sign up. Two days later she began volunteering.
“我一直到今天也没告诉家里人每天还在街上开车。
"I haven't told my family that I drive in the street every day.
”王莉说。
'said Wang.
父母在湖北荆门乡下住，1月23日封城的消息出来，父母就让她回家。
Her parents lived in the countryside of Jingmen, Hubei Province. When word came out that the city was closed on January 23, her parents sent her home.
王莉坚定地不肯，“如果我没有感染，肯定是不会离开武汉的。
"Wang Li firmly refused." If I hadn't been infected, I would not have left Wuhan.
万一我感染了，就更不能去扩大感染范围。
If I get infected, I won't be able to spread the infection.
”王莉做过职员、做过生意、干过游戏代练，一个人在武汉打拼，遇到修水龙头、换电灯泡这样的事她都亲自来，甚至洗衣机坏了，也能修好。
"Wang Li has worked as a clerk, as a businessman, as a game agent, as a person in Wuhan, repair faucet, change the light bulb, and so on, she came in person, even if the washing machine broke down, can be fixed.
严格的交通管制让大量医务工作者的上下班成了大问题，有些人改为骑单车或步行，要花费一两个小时上班；有人甚至需要凌晨四点出发步行到医院上班。
Strict traffic control makes commuting a lot of medical workers a big problem. Some people take an hour or two to get to work by bike or on foot. Some even have to walk to the hospital at 4 a.m.
1月24日深夜，滴滴又召集司机志愿者，成立医护保障车队，免费接送医务人员。
Late at night on January 24, drip-drip volunteers again, set up a medical support convoy, free of charge to transport medical personnel.
至此，1300多名滴滴司机奔赴抗疫一线，支撑起城市的正常运转。
So far, more than 1,300 drip-drip drivers rushed to the frontline of the epidemic, supporting the normal operation of the city.
武汉滴滴保障车队正迅速出车司机志愿者们很快进入角色，算上来往家里和社区的时间，王莉每天工作将近13个小时，社区工作人员手里永远有几项，甚至是十几项工作在等着志愿者。
Wuhan drip-drip guarantee team is rapidly moving into the role of volunteers, counting the time to go to home and community, Wang Li work nearly 13 hours a day, community workers will always have several or even a dozen jobs waiting for volunteers.
每次接送乘客前后，按照滴滴要求，要各进行一次消毒，“尤其是脚垫，是重点消毒的位置。
Before and after each transfer, according to drip requirements, to be disinfected each time, "especially the pad, is the key disinfection location.
”为了乘客也为了自己反反复复地擦拭，但心头的隐忧却并不能完全清除。
"For the sake of passengers and for their own repeated wipe, but the heart of the worry can not be completely removed.
谁都知道，这是一个有风险的工作。
Everyone knows it's a risky job.
在这个特殊时期，人们想尽各种办法进行防护。
At this particular time, people tried every means to protect themselves.
滴滴也想出一个简陋却实用的好办法，计划投入1亿元专项资金，为全国数百万在疫情期间提供服务的滴滴网约车加装隔离防护膜，像是给车加了一个透明口罩，这样前后排成为两个相互隔离的“安全舱”；同时滴滴还为2019年12月15日至疫情结束期间所有完成线上订单的司机提供专项肺炎险，为司机的付出加码保障。
Drop-by-drop has come up with a simple but practical way to add a $100 million safety barrier to millions of drop-in trucks serving the country during the epidemic, such as a transparent face mask, so that they can be placed side by side in two separate "safes"; and for all drivers who complete online orders between December 15, 2019 and the end of the epidemic.
现在，没有人提醒，也用不着提醒，每名司机志愿者、每名乘客都会先保护好自己。
Now, no one to remind, and no need to remind, every driver volunteers, every passenger will protect themselves first.
“几乎所有的乘客一边道谢一边上车，然后主动坐到了后排。
"Almost all the passengers thanked each other and got on the bus and sat down in the back seat.
”王莉说，“武汉人脾气直爽、火爆，疫情之后，大家都更礼貌了。
"Wuhan people are straightforward and hot-tempered," Wang said. "After the outbreak, everyone became more polite.
”贴有温馨提示的防护隔离膜//比普通人多勇敢五分钟除夕之夜，40岁的武汉人黄飞也拿起手机悄悄报了名，成为第一批滴滴招募到的医护专车司机，专门接送医护人员。
Five more minutes braver than ordinary people on New Year's Eve, 40-year-old Wuhan Hwang Fei quietly took up his cell phone and became the first medical driver to be recruited to take care of medical staff.
经历了滴滴首批志愿者司机集结、防疫安全培训后，捧着发下来的护目镜、口罩、防护服、手套、消毒液、酒精……“搞这么大的阵仗？！”黄飞心想，“这个事情没有那么简单。
After the first batch of volunteer drivers' gathering and epidemic prevention safety training, Huangfei thought to himself, "It's not that simple..."
”滴滴志愿者在司机驿站休憩二月的前三天，黄飞连着拉了几位护士，聊了两句，她们都哭起来。
"Three days before the driver's stop for rest, Huang Fei dragged a few nurses and chatted, and they both began to cry.
“那个时候的情况，出乎所有人的意料，医护人员一进医院，几天都不能出来。
"At that time, contrary to everyone's expectations, the medical staff entered the hospital and could not come out for a few days.
谁都受不了啊！”此时，对于新冠肺炎的恐慌逐渐扩散到全国，而武汉的医院挤满了疑似和因为发热前来看病的患者，严重超负荷运转，医护人员的心理压力极大。
By this time, panic over pneumonia was spreading across the country, and Wuhan hospitals were crammed with patients suspected of and coming to the hospital with fever, severely overworked, and the stress of medical staff was overwhelming.
这种情绪也传递给了司机志愿者。
This sentiment was also passed on to the drivers.
王莉坦承：“说不怕是假的，每天都要接人送人，怎么会不担心感染？”但第二天起床，王莉如约开车去了义门社区。
Wang admitted: "No fear is false, every day to send people, how can you not worry about infection?" But the next day, Wang LiuRu drove to the Yimeng community.
英雄并不比普通人更勇敢，只是比普通人多勇敢五分钟而已。
A hero is no braver than a man. He is only five minutes braver than a man.
遇到风险、极度疲劳的时刻，志愿者心里都会打鼓，也有人因为害怕而退出，但黄飞、王莉以及更多志愿者司机们，却执意将这“多勇敢的五分钟”不断叠加。
At times of risk and extreme fatigue, volunteers would drum up and others would quit for fear, but Huang Fei, Wang Li and more volunteer drivers insisted on adding "how brave five minutes" to each other.
担当志愿者的黄飞2月3日，1000张床位的火神山医院建成，开始投入运行；当天晚上，由体育馆改建的首批三家方舱医院也开始接收病人；各地赴鄂医疗支援队伍源源不断地开赴湖北；近四万多名志愿者奔波在武汉空荡荡的马路上，把医护人员、物资、生活用品甚至发热患者送到他们该去的地方，竭力让这座围城维持着运转和生气。
Huangfei, a 1,000-bed hospital in Huangfei, started operating on Feb. 3. The first three squatter hospitals renovated by the gymnasium began to receive patients that evening. Medical support teams from all over the region rushed to Hubei.
滴滴志愿者司机的队伍也在壮大。
The ranks of volunteer drivers are also growing.
他们中有人是因为强烈的公益心而加入；有人是因为在家赋闲而烦闷；有的开玩笑说是“敌不过社区的动员广播声音太大”，于是下楼投身其中。
Some of them joined because they were strongly pro bono; some were bored because they were idle at home; others joked that "the mobilisation of the community was too loud" and went downstairs to join them.
但他们都清楚，这并不是一件“常规”工作。
But they all know that this is not a "routine" job.
滴滴车队不仅解决出行难题，同时承担运送物资的任务志愿者的家人们苦口婆心地说，“在家看看电视，守着老婆孩子不好吗？”但灾难来临，总有人要去做点什么。
Not only did the drip-drip team solve the problem, but the families of the volunteers carrying the supplies complained bitterly, "Isn't it good to watch the TV at home and watch the wife and children?" But when disaster strikes, someone has to do something about it.
黄飞以前开滴滴快车，同样是开车，感受完全不同。
Huangfei before driving drip express, is also driving, feel completely different.
开“快车”是个工作，工作做不好，可以改进，赚钱少一点也没关系。
Driving a "fast train" is a job. If you don't do a good job, you can improve it and make less money.
现在做志愿者是个任务，任务完成不好，他心里过不去这个坎儿。
Now as a volunteer is a task, the mission is not good, his mind can not get through this.
黄飞最主要的任务就是接送医务人员。
Huang Fei's main task is to transport medical personnel.
协和、同济、三医院、人民医院、同济中法新城、协和光谷、人民东院区，这些医院都是黄飞的目的地。
Concorde, Tongji, Three Hospitals, People's Hospital, Tongji French New City, Concorde Gwanggu, People's East District, are all destinations for Huang Fei.
近一个月的“任务”，让他知道了不同的医院有着4、6、8三个不同时长的排班。
Nearly a month of "work", let him know that different hospitals have 4, 6, 8 different long shifts.
这也让滴滴司机志愿者们在早上6点30分、下午16点、深夜23点和凌晨1点，分别迎来近两个小时的用车高峰。
It also allowed drip-drip volunteers nearly two hours of peak use at 6: 30 a.m., 16: 00 p.m., 23: 00 p.m. and 1: 00 a.m.
有的志愿者最晚在凌晨四点还送过医护人员。
Some of the volunteers also delivered paramedics by 4 a.m. at the latest.
写有“武汉加油”的广告牌  王莉/摄司机被医护人员的精神所激励，他们的付出也得到医务人员的认可。
"Wuhan refueling" billboard Wang Li / Photographer inspired by the spirit of medical staff, their pay is also recognized by the medical staff.
有的医务人员当面表达诚挚谢意，也有医务人员在工作群里分享着自己遇到的暖心事，“上次凌晨下班，一位师傅接了我，然后早上六点多还有单子，晚上车子还要充电，他说他就在车里休息了，不然时间都耗在了来回路上。
Some of the medical staff expressed their sincere thanks in person, while others shared their warm thoughts with the workgroup. "Last morning, after work, a master picked me up and had a bill for more than six in the morning and a car charged in the evening.
谁都不容易，他们也是战士。
No one's easy. They're fighters.
”工作中的滴滴医护专车志愿者滴滴为了解决一些地理位置相对偏远的医护上下班难题，特别抽调司机志愿者，成立起“特攻队”。
In order to solve some of the more remote medical and commuter problems in the workplace, volunteers were drawn in to form "special attack teams."
当聊起自己所在的，专门接送协和医院中法新城院区的特攻队时，有的司机会立刻报出“93189、97919……”这些是车牌号，对应一位志愿者司机，也是他们好战友的“代号”。
As they chatted about their special attack unit in the French New Town area of Concorde Hospital, some drivers immediately called "93,189, 97919..." These were the number plates corresponding to a volunteer driver and the "code name" for their fellow soldiers.
医生奋战在一线，医护专车司机也是。
Doctors are on the frontlines, as are the drivers of medical cars.
自除夕夜以来，截至2月15日，滴滴医护专车已在武汉、上海、北京、厦门、宁波、南京等城市，免费接送20885名医务工作者，竭尽所能，只为这场战役可以尽早获得胜利，让医护人员们可以踏实休息。
Since New Year's Eve, as of February 15, the drip-drop medical service has been transporting 20,885 medical workers free of charge in cities such as Wuhan, Shanghai, Beijing, Xiamen, Ningbo and Nanjing.
//“所有的风险我们来承担为了更多人好好在家”医护专车之外，解决社区出行服务也是滴滴司机志愿者们的重要工作内容。
/ / "All Risks Let's Accept All the Risks In order to get more people to stay at home," community travel services are also an important part of the work of drip-dripping volunteers.
“你好！请帮我们买土豆4斤、小白菜2斤、芹菜1斤、大蒜3斤、瘦肉2斤、五花肉2斤、湿纸巾6大包（80片）、医用一次性手套（2盒）、农夫山泉（550毫升、5瓶）……”这些需要购买的物品信息发到志愿者刘宇的手机上，有时是晚上八点，有时是凌晨一两点。
"Hello! Please help us buy potatoes 4 jin, cabbage 2 jin, celery 1 jin, garlic 3 jin, lean meat 2 jin, wet napkin 6 big bags (80 pieces), medical disposable gloves (2 boxes), Nongfu Mountain Quan (550 ml, 5 bottles).
大超市的菜场区域，人员聚集，结账还需要排队，存在传染风险。
Large supermarket's vegetable field area, the personnel gathers, the checkout also needs queues, existence infects the risk.
刘宇经常到超市帮助社区居民采购，超市中人流仍较为密集在超市这样的密闭空间里，能看到普通人所做的各种各样的防护，普通的会在鞋外面再套一个鞋套，有的人穿上吃火锅的一次性围裙，夸张点的会把头套在透明塑料袋里。
Liu Yu often goes to the supermarket to help the community to purchase, the crowd in the supermarket is still more dense in the supermarket such as the closed space, can see the ordinary people do a shoe jacket outside the shoes, some people wear a disposable apron eat hot pot, exaggerated will put the head in a transparent plastic bag.
每当狭路相逢两人走近，立即反射式地绕开，仿佛不想和对方共存在同一片空气中。
Whenever the narrow road meets the two people approach, immediately reflected around, as if they do not want to co-exist with each other in the air.
“很多东西买不到啊！刘宇要在滴滴司机群里问，有一些女性用品还要咨询妻子。
"Many things cannot buy ah! Liu Yu wants to ask in drip drip group, there are some female articles to consult his wife.
担任滴滴志愿者后，他以半天为单位工作，每个半天至少要去七、八家超市、六、七个药房。
After serving as a drip volunteer, he works half a day, going to at least seven or eight supermarkets and six or seven pharmacies every half day.
他知道这些药品关系着生死，即便跑了好几家买不到，第二天还会继续找。
He knew that the drugs were a matter of life and death, and that he would look for them the next day, even if he could not buy them.
少则几样，多则十几样，因为物资短缺，每多一样物品，就要多跑一个超市。
Few, more than a dozen, because of the shortage of supplies, every more than one item, to run more than a supermarket.
刘宇努力满足每个人的要求。
Liu Yu strove to meet everyone's demands.
“反正我已经出来当志愿者了，所有的风险就让我们来承担，大家都好好在家。
"I've come out as a volunteer anyway, so let's take all the risks and be at home.
”刘宇的工作安排表他买完菜和生活用品，要继续分包、送到社区。
"Liu Yu's work schedule He bought vegetables and supplies and had to continue subcontracting and delivering them to the community.
他的服务名单上还有位80多岁的奶奶，女儿现在在国外，采购和照顾的任务也由刘宇负责了。
He also has an 80-year-old grandmother on his list. His daughter is abroad and Liu is in charge of procurement and care.
疫情来临，其他的疾病不会偃旗息鼓。
When the outbreak comes, other diseases will not be wiped out.
心脏问题是其中最多的，其余还包括脑梗、透析、化疗。
Heart problems were the most common, along with cerebral infarction, dialysis, and chemotherapy.
甚至怀孕临产，产妇不敢去医院，害怕交叉感染，熬到临产只能拨打120急救。
Even pregnancy is about to give birth, the mother afraid to go to the hospital, afraid of cross-infection, until childbirth can only dial 120 first aid.
但很多医院爆满，协和、同济等大医院只接收发热患者。
But many hospitals are full, Concorde, Tongji and other major hospitals only accept febrile patients.
这个时候，就需要滴滴的志愿者们挺身而出，担负起急救车的功能。
At this time, the need for drip-drip volunteers to come forward and take on the function of the ambulance.
2月5日，一位高龄老人因为手术后需要拆线，王莉帮助老人往返医院。
On February 5, a senior citizen needed to be disconnected from surgery. Wang Li helped the old man get to and from the hospital.
接送完老人之后，她觉得自己额头发烫，一时之间非常恐慌。
After taking the old man away, she felt her forehead burning and panicking for a moment.
拿出随身携带的体温计，早中晚各量一次，体温都正常后才稍稍放心，事后猜想可能是因为防护服、护目镜、口罩捂得太严实，加上为了照顾手术后的老人而车内空调开得太大，导致自己有了“发烧”的假象。
Take out the thermometer you carry with you, measure your temperature once in the morning and evening, and then feel a little relieved when your body temperature is normal. It may be because the protective clothing, goggles and mask are covered too tightly, and the air conditioning in the car is too big to take care of the elderly after the operation, leading to the appearance of fever.
滴滴社区保障车队司机给居民运送的物资2月5日下午4点多，王莉送完防护物质返回的途中，被路边一位短头发的女孩子拦了下来。
On Feb. 5, more than 4 p. m., Wang Li was returning from protective gear when she was stopped by a short-haired girl by the side of the road.
她的声音很年轻，“这是我做的便当，给你们吃。
"Her voice was young." I made it for you to eat.
这几天我看到在路上跑的只有滴滴，你们太辛苦了。
I've seen only dribs and drabs on the road these days. You're working too hard.
”王莉忙拒绝，“马上就下班了，晚上回家自己做，你把这些饭留给别人吧。
"WangLi refused," It's almost time to leave work and go home at night to do it for yourself.
”女孩子坚持，“带上吧，不用下车，不用和我接触，我把饭放在后座上了。
"The girl insisted," Take it with you. You don't have to get out of the car, you don't have to touch me.
”从2月份起，越来越多的居民开始给志愿者司机送饭。
Starting in February, more and more residents began delivering food to volunteer drivers.
刘宇所在的团队有一百多人，每天中午都有居民自发地来送饭。
Liu Yu's team of more than 100 people, every day at noon residents spontaneously to deliver food.
//用车灯照亮这黯淡时刻身处抗疫一线，志愿者们都会听到各种消息，心情如同过山车。
/ / Lighting up the dark moment with headlights In the battle against the plague, volunteers will hear all kinds of news and feel like a roller coaster.
但无数人与人之间的温暖与互助，让他们更乐观的前行。
But countless people between warm and mutual assistance, let them more optimistic forward.
看到有医护人员牺牲，看到更多人千里驰援为武汉运送物资，看到海外中国人为湖北接力采购，王莉觉得自己也没有理由停下来：“大家都在为武汉拼，我们怎么能放弃。
Seeing the sacrifice of medical staff, seeing more people galloping to transport supplies for Wuhan and overseas Chinese purchasing for the Hubei relay, Wang felt that she had no reason to stop: "Everybody is fighting for Wuhan, how can we give up?
”她更是想到被疫情影响到的全国其他的司机同行们，订单下滑收入减少，也都没有放弃，坚持在一线满足大家的出行需求。
She is thinking of her fellow drivers across the country affected by the epidemic, who have seen their orders fall and their incomes drop, and who are sticking to meet their travel needs on the front line.
同时，滴滴也在为更多的司机们想办法。
At the same time, dribs and drabs are trying to find a way for more drivers.
继在湖北16个城市车辆实行租金顺延后，也在近期倡议全国范围租赁公司伙伴，为小桔车服合作租赁公司的在租车辆顺延一个月的租金，司机暂停缴纳2020年2月份租金，车辆租期相应顺延一个月。
Following delays in the rental of vehicles in 16 cities in Hubei Province, a nationwide leasing company partner has recently been initiated to extend the rental of Orange Garment Co-op vehicles for one month, and the driver has suspended payments for the month of February 2020, with a corresponding one-month extension.
工作中的王莉连续精神高度紧张地服务了二十多天，性格火爆的武汉人必须发泄一下。
In the work of Wang Li continuous high-tension service for more than 20 days, the temperament of Wuhan people must vent.
50岁的志愿者胡建斌把自己在滴滴志愿者大群里的19个兄弟姐妹单独拎了出来，建了一个小群。
Hu Jianbin, a 50-year-old volunteer, set up a small group of 19 brothers and sisters in a small group of volunteers.
“他们压力太大，在大群里发泄，影响不好。
"They are under too much pressure to vent in large groups, the impact is not good.
在小群里可以痛快痛快嘴。
A good hearty tongue in a small company.
”心里痛快了，车开得也顺畅。
"My heart gave vent to it and the car went smoothly.
这些性格各异的老武汉、新武汉人，组成了滴滴司机志愿者队伍。
These different characters of the old Wuhan, new Wuhan people, formed drip drip volunteers.
他们早出晚归，构建起城市的毛细血管，为城市的正常运转输送着“血液”。
They come out early and come back late, building up the capillaries of the city, for the normal operation of the city's "blood."
他们像很多中国人一样，在这场始料未及的疫情之中选择担当，默默奉献着自己的力量，聚沙成塔，共同维系着城市的生命与未来。
Like many Chinese, they choose to bear the burden in the unexpected epidemic, silently contributing their strength, gathering sand into a tower, and jointly sustaining the life and future of the city.
胡建斌的午餐他们都是最普通的人，只是选择比普通人多勇敢5分钟，于是便叠加起无数个5分钟。
They were all ordinary people for lunch, but chose to be braver than the average person for five more minutes, so they stacked up for countless five minutes.
在最黯淡的时刻，武汉这座城市依旧能被车灯照亮。
In the darkest hour, Wuhan city can still be illuminated by the headlights.
（图片提供：王莉、刘宇、黄飞、胡建斌）策划：三联.CREATIVE监制：路瑞海、高效微信编辑/设计排版：赵星宇作者：吴楠、方禾⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
(Photo provided: Wang Li, Liu Yu, Huang Fei, Hu Jianbin) Planning: Trillion. CREATIVE executive production: LuRuihai, high-efficiency micro-letter editing / design typesetting: Zhao Xingyu author: Wu Nan, Fang Wo-woo.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉的城市血管：他们输送食物、温暖与爱。
Wuhan's urban blood vessels: they carry food, warmth and love.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉的城市血管：他们输送食物、温暖与爱";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan's urban blood vessels: They sent food, warmth, and love and quot;;
var msg_desc = "医护专车司机们用车灯照亮了武汉这座城市";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
