骑单车成疫情返工新姿势，共享单车的消毒能放心吗？。
Cycling into an epidemic rework of the new posture, the sharing of bicycle sterilization can rest assured?
林北辰。
Lin Beicheng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：哈啰单车记者：林北辰“ “戴口罩、戴帽子，擦完手把后骑单车去上班，是最近的常态。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnWearing masks, wearing hats, wiping handlebars and riding bicycles to work is the latest norm.
””“戴口罩、戴帽子，擦完手把后骑单车去上班，是最近的常态。
"Wearing masks and hats, wiping handlebars and riding bicycles to work is the norm of late.
”一位在上海返工的用户说。
"said a user reworking in Shanghai.
新冠病毒持续影响交通出行，返工潮到来后，为了避免在公共交通上和人近距离接触，共享单车成为了很多民众短距离出行的首选，其中的消毒问题也成为用户在现阶段使用单车时的最大担忧。
In order to avoid close contact with people on public transportation after the arrival of the new canopy virus, sharing bicycle has become the first choice for many people to travel for short distances. Disinfection has become the biggest concern for users at this stage of the cycle.
据中国城市公共交通协会的公告，2月17日，中国城市公共交通协会完成了《互联网租赁自行车卫生保障运营规范》（以下简称《规范》）团体标准的立项工作，该项标准由美团单车发起，青桔单车、哈啰出行等出行企业联合参与编制，有望在三月中下旬正式对外发布。
On February 17, the China Urban Public Transportation Association completed its work on the establishment of a corporate standard for the hygienic guarantee of bicycles leased on the Internet (hereinafter referred to as "the Code"), which was developed by tour operators, including orange cycling and Hello Kitty, and is expected to be released in late March.
《规范》将对共享单车消毒常态化和标准化，对共享单车日常卫生维护及突发公共卫生事件时期的消毒和维护提出了车辆卫生要求及运营人员要求，防止共享单车使用中的交叉感染。
The Code will normalize and standardize the disinfection of shared bicycles, introduce vehicle hygiene requirements and operators' requirements for routine hygienic maintenance of shared cycles and disinfection and maintenance during public health emergencies, and prevent cross-infection in the use of bicycles.
据界面新闻记者了解，多个单车平台在疫情蔓延之初已施行消毒计划，大多以喷洒的方式对车把、车座、车锁、车筐等接触频繁部位进行消毒，美团、青桔、哈啰等公司均对外宣称施行“无差别消毒”。
According to the interface journalists, many bicycle platforms were disinfected at the beginning of the epidemic. Most of them were sprayed to disinfect the handlebars, saddles, locks, baskets and other frequent points of contact.
哈啰单车上海运营负责人殷慎强对界面新闻记者表示，哈啰单车目前在上海市的消毒运维人员约有30至50人，这批人在大年初三后逐渐返工，主要以喷洒消毒原液的方式对交通要道处的单车进行无差别消毒，最初是对医院、商场附近的单车进行消毒，后来在写字楼、菜市场等相对更高频的场所附近进行消毒。
About 30 to 50 people have been working in Shanghai to sterilize bicycles at the main thoroughfares by spraying disinfectant, initially to disinfect bicycles near hospitals and shopping malls, and then to disinfect relatively high frequency locations such as office buildings and the Hallucinogen market, said Yan Shengqiang, head of Shanghai operations for Hello bicycles.
不过，殷慎强坦言，目前的人力不可能做到每一天都对全区内的单车进行消毒。
However, careful to confess that the current manpower is not able to do every day to disinfect the region's cycle.
以上海为例，50人的消毒团队中约有一半是哈啰的原来员工，另外一半则是为了应对疫情新招募的人员，这批人分至上海的16个辖区，每个区仅有3至5人进行消毒工作，每人平均每天大约能对500至600台单车进行喷洒消毒，因此只能选择在车量密度比较高的地方进行消毒工作，无法做到完全覆盖。
In Shanghai, for example, about half of the 50 people on the disinfection team were former employees of Hello and the other half were new recruits to the 16 districts of Shanghai, each with only three to five people disinfecting, with an average of about 500 to 600 bicycles per person per day, so they can only choose to disinfect areas with high vehicle densities and cannot fully cover them.
据哈啰出行大数据，复工前期（2月6日-2月9日）餐饮店、地铁、大型超市是出行需求最大的地点，其中餐饮店尤其是必胜客、肯德基为出行需求最旺盛的地点；复工后（2月10日-12日）餐饮店、商务区、休闲广场、银行成为出行需求最大的地点，餐饮店仍为出行需求最旺盛的地点。
Restaurants, subways and large supermarkets were the most sought-after locations, with restaurants, especially Pizza Hut and KFC being the most in demand, and restaurants, business areas, leisure squares and banks remaining the most sought-after locations when work resumes (10-12 February).
在大部分城市都选择复工的2月10日，以通勤为主的骑行需求明显上涨。
On February 10, when most cities chose to return to work, the demand for commuting-oriented rides rose sharply.
2月10日相比于2月9日的早高峰期间，哈啰单车在北京、广州、上海的骑行量分别增加了104%、88%和81%。
On February 10, compared with its early peak on February 9, Hello Bicycle increased by 104 percent in Beijing, 88 percent in Guangzhou and 81 percent in Shanghai.
在晚高峰时间，北京、广州、上海的增长率分别为87%、50%和52%，深圳则在当日晚高峰仅增加了7%。
Beijing, Guangzhou and Shanghai posted growth rates of 87 percent, 50 percent and 52 percent, respectively, during the late-night rush hour, with Shenzhen recording a peak of just 7 percent.
不过，结合更早阶段的2月3日复工时间点来看，哈啰单车在2月3日至2月10日期间早晚高峰骑行量并不稳定，曾出现过明显的下降趋势。
However, in conjunction with the earlier resumption of work on 3 February, the morning and evening peak cycle traffic of Hello Bicycle between 3 February and 10 February was not stable, with a marked downward trend.
即使阶段性复工潮到来，单车需求依然不够稳定。
Even with a phased return to work, demand for bicycles is not stable enough.
一位不愿具名的业内人士透露，本次疫情的爆发对共享单车行业打击巨大。
An unnamed industry source said the outbreak had dealt a huge blow to the shared bicycle industry.
疫情之后，全行业的订单量降低了70%至80%，即使返工后订单成倍增长，依然不能回到原先的水平。
After the outbreak, industry-wide orders fell by between 70 and 80 per cent, and even after rework orders multiplied, they were unable to return to their previous levels.
共享单车的消毒成为行业共识，未来这个行业的运营将面临更多的成本支出。
Sharing bicycle disinfection has become an industry consensus, the operation of this industry will face more costs in the future.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
骑单车成疫情返工新姿势，共享单车的消毒能放心吗？。
Cycling into an epidemic rework of the new posture, the sharing of bicycle sterilization can rest assured?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "骑单车成疫情返工新姿势，共享单车的消毒能放心吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Ride a bike into a new epidemic rework position, and share bicycle sterilization? & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“戴口罩、戴帽子，擦完手把后骑单车去上班，是最近的常态。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Wearing a mask, hat, and riding your bike to work after wiping your handlebars is the latest norm.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
