鄂州通报派出所分发捐赠物资事件：派出所长停职，另2名官员被免职。
Huizhou notified police stations of the distribution of donated materials: the director was suspended and two other officials were dismissed.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ 网络上日前流传一则湖北鄂州地方派出所民警分发捐赠慰问物资的视频引发关注。
Photo Source: Visual China "A video circulated recently in Hubei Huzhou local police station on the distribution of condolence materials caused concern.
”网络上日前流传一则湖北鄂州地方派出所民警分发捐赠慰问物资的视频引发关注，鄂州市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部2020年2月21日晚通报，涉事派出所所长已被停职，另有两名官员被免职。
A video circulated on the Internet recently of police officers from Hubei Huzhou local police station distributing solicitude and solicitude materials has aroused concern. The Huzhou New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Command announced on the evening of February 21, 2020 that the police station chief had been suspended and two other officers dismissed.
据媒体报道，日前有网友在自己朋友圈内晒出一段水果和蔬菜的视频，并称“我老公派出所几索彪（厉害、牛逼之意）了，这个水果4箱子，今天又发了这么多菜，这菜都是他们凤凰派出所发的，这水果4箱，我拿了3箱回去给家里人。
"My husband's police station has a few Biao Biao, this fruit 4 box, today issued so many dishes, this fruit is issued by their Phoenix police station, this fruit 4 boxes, I took 3 boxes back to the family.
”视频画面显示，在女子面前摆放的泡沫箱里，堆满了芒果和木瓜，旁边还有各色蔬菜——大白菜、红菜苔、金针菇、木耳等，还有一盒鸡蛋。
The video shows a frothy box in front of the woman, piled high with mangoes and papayas, along with assorted vegetables - cabbage, red moss, mushrooms, fungus and a box of eggs.
网友所发视频截图。
Video screenshots sent by netizens.
此事在网络上引发关注后，鄂州市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部宣传组2月19日回应称，网民在微信朋友圈晒鄂城区公安分局凤凰派出所民警分发水果、蔬菜的视频，引发高度关注，“我们感谢网友们对鄂州捐赠慰问工作的监督，将组织全面、深入的调查，如发现违规违纪行为，无论涉及任何单位、任何个人，绝不姑息，坚决严肃处理。
"We thank the netizens for their supervision of the donation to Hubei police station." We thank the netizens for their supervision of the donation of solicitude to Huzhou, and we will organize a thorough and in-depth investigation.
”2月20日凌晨，鄂州市疫情防控指挥部再次通报称，2月19日晚，鄂州市纪委监委迅速成立专班，立即对鄂州市捐赠慰问物资分配、使用情况进行全面介入、深入调查，如发现违规违纪违法问题，无论涉及任何单位、任何个人，绝不姑息，坚决依法依纪依规严肃处理。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 20, the Huizhou Provincial Disciplinary Control Bureau once again reported that on the night of February 19, the Huzhou Municipal Disciplinary Committee promptly set up a special class to immediately intervene and conduct in-depth investigation into the distribution and use of solicitude materials donated to Huzhou.
2月21日晚，鄂州市疫情防控指挥部通报了此次事件调查结果。
February 21 night, the city of Huzhou epidemic control command reported the results of the investigation.
通报称，经查，鄂州市鄂城区凤凰街道党工委书记、凤凰街道疫情防控指挥部指挥长余建兵，不正确履行职责，违反疫情防控捐赠生活物资分配管理规定，擅自扩大发放范围和发放标准，违规分配和领取捐赠生活物资。
The notice said that, according to the investigation, the secretary of the Phoenix Street Party Working Committee of the Hucheng District of Huzhou and the commander of the Phoenix Street Prevention and Control Command had improperly performed his duties, violated the regulations on the distribution of living materials donated by the epidemic prevention and control, and arbitrarily expanded the scope and issued standards, illegally distributing and receiving donated living materials.
鄂城区发展改革和经济信息化局党组书记、局长杜焕保，在负责鄂城区捐赠物资分配、发放工作中，不正确履行职责，违反疫情防控捐赠生活物资分配管理规定，擅自决定将有关物资分配给凤凰派出所。
The party secretary and director of the Bureau of Development, Reform and Economic Informatization of Hucheng District, Du Huanbao, incorrectly performed his duties in the distribution and distribution of donated materials to Hubei city, and made his own decision to distribute related materials to Phoenix police station in violation of the regulations on the distribution of living materials for epidemic prevention and control.
鄂州市公安局鄂城区分局凤凰派出所所长成学军将凤凰街道下拨的捐赠生活物资分配给所内干警和工作人员。
Huzhou City Public Security Bureau Hucheng District Office Phoenix Police Station commander Chengxue Army will Phoenix Street allocation of donated living materials to the police and staff inside the Institute.
通报称，余建兵、杜焕保的行为涉嫌违纪违法，并造成恶劣影响。
The notice said Yu Jianbing, Du Huanbao's behavior suspected of violating discipline and breaking the law, and causing evil effects.
经鄂州市纪委监委研究并报鄂州市委批准，对余建兵、杜焕保党纪立案、监察立案，并予以免职。
After studying and reporting to the Huizhou Municipal Committee for approval, the discipline of Yu Jianbing and Du Huanbao Party was registered, monitored and dismissed.
市公安局对成学军予以停职处理，有关问题继续深入调查。
The Municipal Public Security Bureau suspended Chengxue Army and continued to conduct in-depth investigation.
鄂州市疫情防控指挥部还表示，网络反映的凤凰派出所“民警”为凤凰派出所从凤凰街道菜园头村借用的治安员，系普通群众。
Ezhou epidemic control command also said that the network reflects the phoenix police station "police" for Phoenix police station from Phoenix Street garden head village borrowed from the security personnel, is the common people.
疫情防控期间，其参与留观隔离点值守工作，所领水果、蔬菜系成学军安排分配。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, it took part in guarding the quarantined points, and the fruits and vegetables were distributed according to military arrangements.
此外，微信用户“与石俱进”2月19日在微信群内自称其亲戚是当官的，并称“我们家圣女果是跟凤凰派出所是一批的”“冒得发，别人送的”“反正我家里也是吃不完”等言论。
In addition, micro-credit users "and Shi Qiajing" February 19 in the micro-letter group claiming that their relatives are in office, and said that "our family is with the Phoenix police station is a batch of" "take the trouble, someone else gave" "I have no end at home.
鄂州市疫情防控指挥部通报，经查，该用户姓名严某华，男，48岁、鄂州市燕矶镇人，燕矶某个体小酒厂负责人。
The Ezhou epidemic prevention and control command informed, after investigation, the user's name Yan Hua, male, 48-year-old, people from Yanshi Town, Huizhou City, Yanshi an individual winery director.
2019年底，严某华被人拉入“开心驿站”微信群，2020年2月19日，看到涉鄂城区公安分局凤凰派出所视频里的圣女果和他买的小西红柿差不多，就想在群内炫耀一下，发布了上述言论和图片。
At the end of 2019, Yan was pulled into the "happy post" micro-faith group, February 19, 2020, to see the city police station Phoenix police station video similar to the small tomatoes he bought, want to show off in the group, published the above-mentioned remarks and pictures.
据其交待，发帖“本意是聊得好玩，想吸引别人的眼球”，图片中的小西红柿是在燕矶中百超市购买，食用油和大米是在当地一家粮油店购买，口罩是网上截屏的，其妻子为家庭妇女，有三个小孩，两个小孩在读书，一个小孩只有2岁，其亲属中均没有公务人员。
The tomato was bought at a local food and oil store, and the mask was bought online by a housewife with three children, two children reading a book and a two-year-old child with no family members.
鄂州市疫情防控指挥部称，目前，公安机关已对其进行了批评教育。
At present, the public security organs have criticized and educated the city's epidemic prevention and control command.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
鄂州通报派出所分发捐赠物资事件：派出所长停职，另2名官员被免职。
Huizhou notified police stations of the distribution of donated materials: the director was suspended and two other officials were dismissed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "鄂州通报派出所分发捐赠物资事件：派出所长停职，另2名官员被免职";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "网络上日前流传一则湖北鄂州地方派出所民警分发捐赠慰问物资的视频引发关注。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A video circulated recently about donations of condolence material by police at a local police station in Hubei province has drawn attention.
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
