神农架新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例，潜伏期长达27天。
In Shennongjia, there was a new confirmed case of crown pneumonia with incubation period of 27 days.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：翟兴波 本文来源：湖北日报“ 在连续16天无新增确诊病例后，2月21日，神农架林区新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Reporter: Zhai Xingbo Source: Hubei Daily: "After 16 days without new confirmed cases, February 21, Shennong forest area, a new case of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia.
”在连续16天无新增确诊病例后，2月21日，神农架林区新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
On February 21, a new confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia was reported in Shennongchang forest area after 16 days of no new confirmed cases.
据神农架林区新冠肺炎防控指挥部通报，患者姜某某，男，神农架人，现年70岁。
According to Shennongjia forest area New Crown Pneumonia Control Command informed that the patient Jiang, male, Shennongjia, Aged 70.
1月24日乘私家车从鄂州市华容区返回神农架松柏镇。
January 24 by private car from Huarong District Huarong City, Shennongjia returned to the town of pine and cypress.
2月19日晚出现发热(体温37.5℃)伴乏力等症状，2月20日到林区人民医院就诊，后经采集咽拭子开展新冠肺炎病毒核糖核酸检测，结果呈阳性。
Febrile fever (37.5 degrees Celsius) accompanied by fatigue on the night of 19 February, followed by a visit to the People's Hospital in forest areas on 20 February, and a positive result was obtained by swabbing the swabs of the new crown pneumonia virus RNA.
患者自述患有高血压、脑梗等基础性疾病，曾有2次手术史，返回后一直服药治疗。
The patient described himself as suffering from hypertension, cerebral infarction and other basic diseases, there have been two surgical history, has been taking medication since the return.
根据流行病学调查表明，该患者在鄂州的妹妹于1月25日发病，2月2日在鄂州市确诊为新冠肺炎病例。
According to the epidemiological investigation, the patient's sister in Huzhou on January 25, February 2 in Huzhou City confirmed as a case of new crown pneumonia.
据了解，姜某某一家人在鄂州期间，与其妹妹同吃同住3天。
It is understood that the Kang family in Huzhou, and his sister eat and live together for three days.
1月24日与子女一起返回神农架林区后，未同其他人员密切接触。
He returned to the Shennongshan Forest Area with his children on 24 January without close contact with other personnel.
同车家属4人目前身体均无异常，核糖核酸检测呈阴性，已接受隔离医学观察。
None of the four family members were currently in abnormal condition, had been tested negative for ribonucleic acid and had been placed under isolated medical observation.
负责治疗的专家认为，该患者从鄂州返回至2月19日发病，长达27天时间，属于较长潜伏期的典型病例。
Experts in charge of the treatment believe that the patient returned from Huizhou to February 19, up to 27 days, a typical case of a longer incubation period.
专家建议，有与武汉及周边地区旅行史和居住史的居民，要注意做好自我隔离，降低与他人接触交叉感染的可能，如有发烧、咳嗽等不适症状要及时到医院就诊。
Experts recommend that residents with a history of travel and residence in Wuhan and surrounding areas should pay attention to self-isolation, reduce the risk of cross-infection with other people, such as fever, cough and other symptoms to the hospital in time.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
神农架新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例，潜伏期长达27天。
In Shennongjia, there was a new confirmed case of crown pneumonia with incubation period of 27 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "神农架新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例，潜伏期长达27天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Shennongjia has a new confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia, with a latency of 27 days;;
var msg_desc = "在连续16天无新增确诊病例后，2月21日，神农架林区新增一例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with no new cases confirmed for 16 days, a new confirmed case of crown pneumonia was reported in Shennongchang Forest on February 21.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
