“不透析就是在等死” ，尿毒症患者的封城困境。
"Without dialysis is waiting to die," uremia patients in the closure of the plight.
冯洁、高逸佳等。
Feng Jie, Gao Yi Jia etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
每一次维持生命的出行，都充满了未知。
Every trip to sustain life is full of the unknown.
文 | 冯洁、高逸佳、谢婵 编辑 | 小豆元元已经在汉阳中医院连续站了八个多小时。
Feng Jie, Gao Yia Jia, Xie Xie and Xiao Bean Yuan have been standing at Hanyang Chinese Hospital for more than eight hours.
除了他，1月28日当晚，还有将近20名尿毒症患者聚集在汉阳中医院，他们只戴了口罩，没有别的防护。
In addition to him, on the night of January 28, nearly 20 patients with uremia gathered at Hanyang Chinese Hospital, wearing nothing but masks.
肾内科的医生、医院保卫科的领导来来往往，双方僵持着，不断地等待、讨论甚至争吵。
The head of the renal department, the head of the hospital security department, came and went, and the two sides froze, waiting, discussing and even quarrelling.
期间患者们“拨打了三次110的电话，无数遍卫健委的电话和市长热线，来了三批警察”，最后等到了院领导。
During the period the patients "made 110 calls three times, countless times Wei Bodyguard telephone and the mayor's hotline, came three batches of police," and finally waited until the hospital leadership.
直到晚上九点多，院方终于承诺，会将还没找到新的透析场地的患者安排到普爱医院进行透析，患者可以先回家等具体的医院分配与透析时间安排。
Until around 9 p.m., the hospital promised that patients who had not yet found a new dialysis site would be sent to the hospital for dialysis. Patients could be assigned to specific hospitals, such as home, and dialysis schedules.
新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎感染人数还在持续上升，在医院进行群体性聚集，是风险极高的行为。
Pneumonia infection caused by the new coronavirus infection is still on the rise. It is extremely risky to gather in groups in hospitals.
但规律透析是这些尿毒症患者活下去的唯一选择。
But regular dialysis is the only way for these uremic patients to survive.
“不透析就是在等死”血液被引出后，经人工肾脏及血液透析机器将体内多余的水份及毒素清除，再透过另一针管从瘘管注回体内。
"Nondialysis is waiting to die." After the blood is extracted, excess fluid and toxins are removed from the body by an artificial kidney and hemodialysis machine and injected back into the body through another needle.
这样的透析过程，作为尿毒症患者的元元每周要经历三次，每次需要四至六小时。
This dialysis process, which takes four to six hours at a time, takes three yuan a week for uremic patients.
1月26日，元元在透析病友群中接到通知，由于汉阳中医院被征用为第三批定点救治医院，需要清空病人、关闭透析室。
On January 26, Yuan Yuan was informed among dialysis patients that the Hanyang Chinese Hospital had been requisitioned as the third batch of designated treatment hospitals, requiring emptying patients and closing dialysis rooms.
负责对接的护士表示，询问了几个没被征用的医院的透析室也已经都饱和了，需要透析的患者只能自己“找路子”。
The nurses in charge of the docking said the dialysis rooms of several hospitals that had not been requisitioned were already full and patients in need of dialysis had to "find their own way."
病友都开始慌了。
The sick friends began to panic.
次日，汉阳中医院联系安排了一批病人到私人医院自费透析，还有一部分人被安排到湖北省中医院。
The next day, Hanyang TCM Hospital contacted a group of patients to pay for dialysis in private hospitals.
元元被分配到了汉阳天泽透析中心，怕之后不能透析，元元一次性交了六次透析的钱，2740多块，没有包含药费。
Yuan Yuan was assigned to the Hanyang Tianze Dialysis Center, afraid of not being able to dialysis after, yuan one time paid six dialysis money, more than 2,740, did not include drug fees.
“平常透析经过医保重症报销只要一百多。
"Normal dialysis claims after Medicare are just over a hundred.
”对于部分没有工作和收入的透析病人来说，两周近三千元的花费是一笔不小的数目。
For some dialysis patients without jobs or income, the cost of nearly $3,000 a week is a hefty sum.
同医院包括李萍在内的几名病友还在寻找新的医院。
Several patients with the hospital, including Li Ping, are still looking for a new hospital.
“你们能帮忙联系到透析的医院吗？我们这个病等不了。
"Can you help me get to the dialysis hospital? We can't wait for this.
”元元补充道，“她们已经好几天没透析了，今天一天不敢吃喝。
"They haven't had dialysis for days and don't dare to eat or drink today," yuan added.
”1月29日，李萍已经五天没透析了，体内的积液无法排出，全身水肿得厉害。
On January 29, Li Ping had not dialyzed for five days, leaving the body unable to drain away fluid and suffering from severe oedema.
“体内的毒素清理不干净会积累下来，损伤全身的脏器，还有一些其他的后遗症。
"Toxins accumulated in the body when they were not cleaned, causing damage to the body's organs and other after-effects.
”久了，心律不齐，血压也会持续升高，甚至可能造成死亡。
Over time, arrhythmia occurs and blood pressure continues to rise, possibly leading to death.
李萍四处打听消息，不断地往不同的医院跑。
Li Ping asked about the news and kept running to different hospitals.
路上崴了脚，脚腕肿了一圈，所幸社区派了车接送。
He sprained his foot and swollen his ankle, but fortunately the community sent a car to pick him up.
由于李萍另患有甲肝，血液具有传染性，需要适用于阳性的机器进行透析，而她联系的大多医院都已经饱和，没有机器或不再接受新的病人。
As Li Ping also has hepatitis A, the blood is infectious and needs to be dialyzed by positive machines, and most of the hospitals she contacted are saturated and do not have machines or new patients.
各个医院的透析室都可能面临关闭。
Dialysis rooms in hospitals may face closure.
武汉市先后征收了三批共24家定点医院，清出近万张床位收治发热病人。
Wuhan city has collected three batches of 24 designated hospitals, clearing nearly 10,000 beds to treat febrile patients.
有病友告诉记者，自己的医院“之前转了一些透析病人过来，结果不久又变成定点了”，“透析完一次就不知道还有没有下一次”。
Some patients told reporters that their hospital "before turning some dialysis patients over, the result soon became a fixed point", "dialysis once I do not know if there is another."
有病友被再分配到普仁分院透析记者联系到武汉市新洲区卫生局，工作人员语气匆忙：“今天好多人都给我打电话说要做透析，没有办法，医院都已经满了，不管是武汉还是新洲，哪里的都收不了了，所有的医院都爆，没有办法。
"There were a lot of people calling me today to talk about dialysis. There was no way the hospital was full, no matter whether it was Wuhan or Xinzhou, there was no way to save the hospital.
”规模较大的综合医院尚有能力将病人分流到医院的其他院区，武汉协和医院宣传部负责人向记者确认，协和医院西院在被征收之后，与疫情无关的病人已经全部妥善分流。
The larger general hospital still has the capacity to divert patients to other hospital districts, and the head of Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital's propaganda department confirmed to reporters that after the seizure of the hospital's western courtyard, all patients not related to the outbreak had been properly diverted.
但对于更多医院来说，一旦被征收，第二天透析室就要关闭。
But for more hospitals, dialysis rooms will be closed the next day once they are collected.
机器有限，甚至有些医院开通了夜间透析，或者减少透析次数以安排更多的患者。
Machinery is limited, and some hospitals have even introduced nightly dialysis or reduced the number of dialysis sessions to accommodate more patients.
在名为“武汉战疫”的微信群里，依旧源源不断地有新的尿毒症病友加入，逐渐扩展到了湖北地区，群里不停更新着关于透析的求助信息。
In the "Wuhan battle plague" micro-letter group, there is still a continuous flow of new uremia patients to join, gradually expanding into Hubei region, the group constantly updated on dialysis help information.
ID为“双手合十”的病友回了一句：“兄弟姐妹们，互相关照一下，实在不行就减时间尽量让大家都活下去。
ID for the "hands and knees" of the sick friend replied: "Brothers and sisters, correlative photo, really can not take time to let everyone live.
”这句话马上又被群里“陆总明天要关闭透析室了”的信息刷掉了。
The words were immediately erased from the group's message that the president would close the dialysis room tomorrow.
充满未知数的出行李炘羲在孝感市第一人民医院透析。
He was dialyzed in the First People's Hospital of Xiaogan City.
早上5：30出门，7：20到医院，25公里的路，骑摩托花了近两个小时。
5: 30 in the morning, 7: 20 to the hospital, 25 km away, it took almost two hours to ride a motorcycle.
父亲不放心，陪着他一起去。
The father was not at ease and went with him.
出村时，路口让树丫子和水泥块、废旧的水泥电线杆挡住了，清了十多分钟，两个人用力推才勉强过去，到镇上也怕有挡路的，就走了外环土路。
Out of the village, let the intersection of branches and cement blocks, old cement poles blocked, clear for more than 10 minutes, the two people pushed hard to pass, the town is afraid of blocking the road, and walked the outer ring dirt road.
冬天的武汉，他全身冻得冰凉。
In the winter in Wuhan, his whole body was cold with cold.
对比群里的病友们，李炘羲觉得自己这一路算是很幸运。
He thought he was lucky to be there, compared with his sick fellows.
自武汉1月23日封城以来，市内公共交通暂停运行，湖北省各市区都施行了不同程度的交通管制。
Since Wuhan was closed on January 23, public transportation in the city has been suspended and traffic control has been enforced in all urban areas of Hubei province to varying degrees.
田磊透析完正好遇上武汉开始封城，公共交通停运，田磊靠着骑共享单车加上步行，经过晴川桥和长江大桥，前后用了五个小时才回到家。
It took Tian Lei five hours to get home from his dialysis at the start of Wuhan, when public transport was shut down and Tian Lei rode a shared bicycle and walked across the Qingchuan and Yangtze bridges.
他在朋友圈写道：“人在危难时刻会迸发出极大的毅力，在我平时走几步路都觉得气喘吁吁，尤其是透析后应该是最虚弱的时候，竟然能走路加骑车近5小时。
"It takes a lot of stamina in a time of crisis," he wrote in his circle of friends. "I feel breathless after walking a few steps, especially after dialysis, when I am supposed to be the weakest, walking and cycling for nearly five hours.
回家全身汗透。
Home sweaty.
”路途消耗对尿毒症患者是很大的负担，很多患者本就存在器官衰竭的症状，很多人无法支撑长途步行或骑行。
Travelling is a huge burden for uremic patients, many of whom already have symptoms of organ failure, and many cannot afford to walk or ride long distances.
有病友平时坐15元的大巴去透析，现在单程打车就花费了480元。
Patients usually take 15 yuan bus to dialysis, now a one-way taxi cost 480 yuan.
在政府安排下，社区现在可以提供必要的派车接送服务。
Under government arrangements, the community can now provide the necessary shuttle services.
田磊表示，现在有很多患者坐社区派的车去透析。
Mr. Tian says many patients now use community-driven cars for dialysis.
但是不同社区情况不一，有些社区无法提供派车：“比如太远，说跨区不走。
But the situation varies from one community to another, with some communities unable to provide vehicles: "For example, it is too far away to move across districts.
比如说二医院南京路可以24小时透析，但晚上又没车接送。
For example, Nanjing Road, the second hospital, has 24-hour dialysis, but no transport at night.
各区情况不一样，资源不一样，态度也不一样。
The situation varies from region to region, from resource to resource and from attitude.
”阿刘在社区给父亲约的车临时被取消了，这次阿刘真急了。
"Ah Liu's car, which he had contracted for his father in the community, was cancelled temporarily.
大年初一那天，57岁的父亲透析完，没叫到车就决定步行返回，可是老人走着走着就走错了路。
On New Year's Day, his 57-year-old father dialyzed and decided to walk back without calling, but the old man walked on and went the wrong way.
等不到父亲的阿刘和警察在雨中找了几个小时才找到老人，再也不敢让老人独自去透析。
After several hours of searching in the rain, Ah Liu and the police, unable to wait for their father, found the old man and dared not go to dialysis alone.
到处找车的阿刘最后进了一个车队群，几经询问终于找到了车。
Ah Liu, who was looking for a car everywhere, finally got into a convoy and finally found it after several inquiries.
由于出现了一例司机被发热病人隐瞒病情，在送其去医院后即被隔离的事件之后，大多数志愿者车队与社区车队不愿意再接送前往医院的乘客，因为“生命得不到保障”。
Most volunteer convoys and community convoys were reluctant to transport passengers to the hospital because of "life insecurity," following an incident in which the driver was kept in hiding by a feverish patient and was quarantined immediately after being taken to hospital.
这种情况下，透析病人的出行更为困难。
In such cases, dialysis patients' travel is more difficult.
田磊还担心一些老弱的需要轮椅助行的尿毒症患者，他们往往没有什么社交，也没有加入信息灵通的病友群，如果是独居的话，可能会更危险。
Mr. Tian is also worried about the elderly and vulnerable uremic who need wheelchairs, who often have little social contact and do not belong to a well-informed group of patients, which can be even more dangerous if they live alone.
为落实“内防扩散、外防输出”的要求，湖北各地区以更严格的措施限制车辆和人员流动。
In order to fulfill the requirements of "internal non-proliferation and external defense export," Hubei areas have adopted stricter measures to restrict the movement of vehicles and personnel.
1月29日上午11时左右，宜昌当阳市所有路灯变红，禁止一切车辆通行。
January 29 around 11 a.m., Yichang Dangyang City all street lights turned red, banned all vehicles.
孝感市自2020年1月30日零时，不仅限制机动车出行，也对电动车实施禁行。
Xiaogan City from January 30, 2020 at 0, not only to restrict the movement of motor vehicles, but also the ban on electric vehicles.
乡镇间更是设立了大量的物理关卡，茅草、横挡的卡车、石墩都被作为路障，村、镇、市之间对于通行证的认同程度不同，被拦下来交涉几个小时是常有的事。
Townships and townships set up a large number of physical barriers, thatched grass, blocked trucks, stone piers are used as roadblocks, villages, towns, cities and the level of recognition of permits, was stopped down to negotiate for several hours.
透析病人每一次维持生命的出行，都充满了未知。
Dialysis patients every time life-sustaining travel, are full of unknown.
尿毒症患者拍摄的路障。
A roadblock shot by a uremic patient.
“惊弓之鸟”透析前，李炘羲在家里尽可能做了全套的防护。
Before Dialysis, Li did as much protection as he could at home.
穿上带连衣帽的长羽绒服，带一个医用口罩和一个棉口罩，把帽子带上后用帽带扎紧就只露出两只眼睛，他觉得大家“都成了惊弓之鸟，感觉除了自己，谁都是病菌”。
Wear a long down jacket with a hood, a medical mask and a cotton mask, put on his hat and tie it tightly to reveal only two eyes.
兵哥一直没有买到新口罩，每次出入医院，他就回家用高温烫煮之后烤干，再用剩下的一点酒精喷上。
His brother never bought a new mask, and every time he went to the hospital, he would go home, boil it hot and dry it, and spray it with the rest of the alcohol.
兵哥反复使用的口罩。
A mask used repeatedly by soldiers.
疫情下，武汉市天霖中西结合医院（后简称“中西医院”）成了特别的透析室。
Under the epidemic situation, Wuhan Tianlin Chinese and Western Combined Hospital (hereinafter referred to as "Western and Chinese Hospital") became a special dialysis room.
中西医院是民营专科肾病医院，收治有近60多名需要透析的尿毒症患者。
Chinese and Western hospitals are private specialized nephropathy hospitals, nearly 60 patients in need of dialysis uremia.
该医院与华南海鲜市场，仅两站路距离。
The hospital is only two stops away from the South China seafood market.
由于属于私立医院，且没有收治肺炎病人，中西医院无法获得卫健委提供的防护服和消毒物品。
Due to private hospitals and the lack of treatment for pneumonia patients, the Western and Central Hospitals are unable to obtain the protective clothing and disinfectant provided by the CHP.
1月26日，医院领导决定停业后，无处透析的病友们联系了医生护士，商量着以私人名义做透析。
On January 26, after hospital officials decided to suspend operations, dialysis patients contacted doctors and nurses to discuss dialysis in a private capacity.
但是防护物资的紧缺始终是难题，医院里的口罩和防护服都已经用完了，一开始病友通过志愿者筹集了十几套防护服，并且安排有私家车的病友去接送四名护士，成功支撑了3天，为近60名患者的提供了透析治疗。
But the shortage of protective equipment has always been a problem. At first, the patient collected dozens of protective suits through volunteers and arranged for four nurses to be transported by private cars. This successfully lasted three days and provided dialysis treatment to nearly 60 patients.
然而防护服用完后，护士们也不敢透析了。
However, nurses were afraid to dialyse after the prophylaxis.
武汉市第六医院，尽管被设为定点医院，但在尿毒症患者的强烈要求下，仍在同时接诊发热病人与开设透析室。
Wuhan sixth hospital, although set up as a designated hospital, but under the strong demand of uremia patients, is still attending to fever patients and opening dialysis rooms.
但这带来了新的风险。
But this brings new risks.
尿毒症患者的免疫力差，被感染的几率高于普通人。
People with uremia have poor immunity and are more likely to be infected than the general population.
一方面收治发热病人的医院害怕交叉感染、疫情扩散，不敢收其他普通病人；另一方面由于存在无症状传染者，非定点医院无法仅通过测量体温排除无症状的感染者，不敢收新病人。
On the one hand, hospitals treating febrile patients are afraid of cross-infection, spread of the epidemic, and do not accept other common patients; on the other hand, because of asymptomatic infectors, non-designated hospitals cannot exclude asymptomatic infections and dare not admit new patients simply by measuring body temperature.
武汉市1月28日发布的《关于做好新冠肺炎疫情期间特殊人医疗保障工作的通知》中指出，“切实保障新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊及疑似病例伴有慢性肾功能衰竭病人、孕产妇、外科疾病等人群医疗保健服务需求。
"The notice on medical protection for special people during the outbreak of new coronavirus infection" issued by Wuhan on January 28 states that "the confirmed and suspected cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection will be guaranteed along with the need of medical and health care services for patients with chronic renal failure, pregnant women and surgical patients.
”由于武汉市正值疫情高峰，医院科室往往只要检测出一例新型冠状病毒肺炎，为防止交叉感染，整个科室都不敢再接收新的病人。
As Wuhan is at the peak of the epidemic, hospital departments often only need to detect a new coronavirus pneumonia, to prevent cross-infection, the entire department dare not accept new patients.
但对于未被感染，却又处于被感染风险极高状态的其他重症患者而言，所有的医疗资源都在向发热病人倾斜，重症患者需要在做好防护的同时寻找活下去的希望。
But for other critically ill patients who are not infected but are at high risk of infection, all medical resources are tilted toward febrile patients, who need to be protected and hope for survival.
尿毒症患者并非孤例。
People with uremia are not alone.
1月29日，有急性白血病患者家属在微博求助，由于没有医院接收，又由于封城，无人献血、血库告急，病人住不进医院甚至没有排队申请输血的资格。
On 29 January, family members of patients with acute leukaemia sought help on Weibo and, owing to the lack of hospital reception, the closure of the city, the absence of blood donations and the crisis of the blood bank, patients were not admitted to hospitals or even queued to apply for blood transfusions.
而不能及时输上血小板，就随时会有内出血死亡的危险。
But cannot induct platelet in time, can have the risk of internal hemorrhage to die at any time.
武汉地区，医院看病的需求都被政府接手，由社区联络员负责，通过“武汉微邻里”小程序进行信息登记。
Wuhan, the hospital needs to be taken over by the government, by community liaison officers, through the "Wuhan micro-neighborhood" small procedures for information registration.
但对于非肺炎患者，其他病人的医疗需求该如何得到保障，仍是需要解答的问题。
But for non-pneumonia patients, how the medical needs of other patients can be guaranteed is still a question to be answered.
病友群里，病友们在互相鼓励：“透析十几年都熬过来了，办法总比困难多。
In the sick group, the patients encouraged each other: "After more than a decade of dialysis, the solution is always more difficult.
”但对于一直在不停接听电话的武汉市新洲区卫生局工作人员来说，他也只能一次次重复，“我们也没有办法，真的很特殊，不做透析也没办法，我们也没有办法。
"But for the staff of Wuhan Xinzhou District Health Bureau, who had been on the phone all the time, he could only repeat," We have no choice, we really are special, there is no way without dialysis, and we have no choice.
”（应采访对象要求，文中人名均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: less-than-usual: newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“不透析就是在等死” ，尿毒症患者的封城困境。
"Without dialysis is waiting to die," uremia patients in the closure of the plight.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“不透析就是在等死” ，尿毒症患者的封城困境";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "每一次维持生命的出行，都充满了未知";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; every life-sustaining trip.
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
