“钻石公主”历险记：邮轮隔离真的到位吗？。
"The Diamond Princess" Adventures: Is Cruise Isolation Really in Place?
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：WikiCommons记者：田思奇“ “当我们回顾过去时，很容易对当时某一时刻的公共卫生决策做出评判。
Source: WikiCommons: "When we look back, it's easy to judge public health decisions at a given moment in time.
当时的决定，显然比让所有人分散在世界各地要好得多。
It was a much better decision than to spread everyone around the world.
研究这一特殊事件，看看过程中出了什么问题，这非常重要。
It is important to study this particular event and see what went wrong in the process.
””当日本政府在2月5日下令隔离“钻石公主”号两周时，没有人会想到，这艘载有3700人的船上竟会出现超过630名新冠肺炎确诊病患。
When the Japanese government ordered the quarantine of the Princess Diamond on February 5 for two weeks, no one expected more than 630 people diagnosed with pneumonia on board the 3,700-strong vessel.
距离从横滨港出发已经过去一个月，“钻石公主”号终于开始陆续送走船上来自数十个国家的乘客和船员。
A month after its departure from Yokohama, the Princess of Diamonds began to ferry passengers and crew from dozens of countries.
这段史无前例的相聚之后，船上的人正走向截然不同的新阶段：确诊患者及其密切接触者去往日本国内的医疗机构和特定隔离设施；病毒检测呈阴性的外国乘客，例如美国和澳大利亚的公民，则乘包机回国开启额外两周隔离期；而重获自由的日本乘客大都在横滨站就地解散，有的已经和朋友约在寿司店见面。
After this unprecedented gathering, the people on board are heading for a completely different phase: diagnosed patients and their close contacts go to medical institutions and specific isolation facilities in Japan; foreign passengers who test negative for viruses, such as citizens of the United States and Australia, return home on chartered flights to begin an additional two-week quarantine period.
乘客Daxa在Twitter公开了他拿到的下船许可而对于原本没有责任和义务接纳这艘国际邮轮的日本厚生劳动省（下称“厚劳省”）来说，他们仍需继续回应一个被外界质疑无数的问题：把所有人隔离在船上两周，真的是最好的办法吗？留在船上1月20日从横滨出发的“钻石公主”号途经鹿儿岛、中国香港和台湾，以及越南等地。
Passenger Daxa posted on Twitter his disembarkation permit, and for the Japanese ministry of health, health and labour, which had no responsibility or obligation to accept the international liner, continued to respond to a myriad of questions: Is it really the best way to keep everyone on board for two weeks?
在此期间，一名曾出现咳嗽症状的80岁乘客于1月25日在香港下船，并在2月1日确诊感染新冠病毒。
During this period, an 80-year-old passenger who developed cough symptoms disembarked in Hong Kong on 25 January and was diagnosed with the new crown virus on 1 February.
这时，距离该乘客下船已过去一周，“钻石公主”号已离开冲绳，载着2666名乘客和1045名船员踏上返回横滨港的航程。
By this time, a week after the passenger had disembarked, the Princess Diamond had left Okinawa with 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members on her way back to Yokohama harbour.
虽然“钻石公主”号的起点和终点都是日本，但这艘属于美国邮轮公司的船舶悬挂着英国旗帜，理应根据由所属国管理的“旗国主义”原则适用英国法律。
Although the "Princess of Diamonds" started and ended in Japan, the ship belonging to a United States cruise company, flying the British flag, was supposed to apply British law under the flag of the flag of the flag State, which was administered by the State of nationality.
《日本经济新闻》评论强调，日本允许邮轮靠岸、承担乘员的检查并提供生活支持，并非国际法上的义务，这是考虑到近半数乘客是日本人的情况下依然可以作出的判断。
The Japan Economic News commentary stresses that Japan is not under an obligation under international law to allow cruise ships to land, carry out crew inspections and provide livelihood support, considering that nearly half of the passengers are Japanese.
该评论援引日本政府人士的话表示，“本来是可以拒绝邮轮靠岸的”。
The commentary quotes Japanese government sources as saying "cruise ships could have been refused access to shore."
的确，在确诊患者出现后，日本完全可以依据其出入国管理法第5条第1项中提到的“有可能危害日本利益和公共安全的情况”拒绝“钻石公主”号靠岸。
Indeed, once a patient has been diagnosed, Japan is free to refuse to dock the Princess Diamond under the "circumstances likely to endanger the interests of Japan and public safety" referred to in Article 5, Item 1 of the Law of the Country of Entry and Exit.
这正是日本之后拒绝“威士特丹”号邮轮靠岸，以及拒绝曾到访中国浙江者入境的法律依据。
That was the legal basis for Japan's subsequent refusal to dock the Rotterdam cruise ship and to deny entry to people who had visited Zhejiang, China.
但日本厚劳省还是接过了任务。
But the Japanese province of Hou has taken over.
美国乘客马修·史密斯对界面新闻表示，从2月3日到4日，所有乘客都测量了体温，还有一些人接受了血液测试。
Matthew Smith, an American passenger, told the Interface News that from February 3 to 4, all passengers had their body temperature taken and others had blood tests.
“2月5日早上7点，船长告诉我们，因为有10个人的病毒检测呈阳性，日本官员将对我们进行14天的隔离，在此期间我们必须留在船舱内。
"At 7 a.m. on February 5, the captain told us that because 10 people were tested positive for the virus, Japanese officials would isolate us for 14 days, during which we would have to stay in the cabin.
”日本首相安倍晋三2月5日当天在对策总部表示，“现在面对大型客船内的集体感染这一新情况，必需采取万全措施”。
Japan's prime minister, Shinzo Abe, said on February 5 at his countermeasure headquarters that "the new situation of mass infection in large passenger ships calls for all-out measures."
面对突如其来的两周隔离，乘客和船员们当时不会意识到，按照日本国立传染病研究所事后发布的研报，有明确证据表明，在2月5日对邮轮实施检疫之前，“新冠病毒已经在船上有大量传播”。
Faced with the sudden two-week quarantine, passengers and crew would not have realized that, according to an ex post facto study by the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, there was clear evidence that "the new crown virus had spread on board the ship" before the cruise was quarantined on February 5.
日本北海道大学教授西浦博20日依据国立传染病研究所数据分析称，在乘客和船员们开始待在房间里待命前，船内是“平均1名感染者传染给5个人的高风险环境”。
Hokkaido University professor Shippo 20, based on data analysis by the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, said the ship was "a high-risk environment for an average of one infected person to five people" before passengers and crew began to stay in their rooms.
那么，既然要采取措施防止病毒扩散，日本政府为什么不让所有人离开邮轮，让他们待在陆地上的隔离设施内？首先，日本政府有避免病毒在国内传播的考量。
So why not let everyone leave the cruise ship and let them stay in a land-based quarantine facility when measures are taken to prevent the virus from spreading? First, the Japanese government has a concern to avoid the virus spreading in the country.
共同社援引政府相关人士表示：“为了防止（病毒）在国内的扩散，认为全员留船更安全。
"To prevent the spread [of the virus] in the country, it is considered safer to keep all personnel on board," Kyodo quoted government sources as saying.
”首相官邸消息人士称：“尽到最大努力。
A source at the prime minister's official residence said: "Try your best.
即使被说初期应对太慢，也已经是在拼命去做了。
Even if it is said that the initial response is too slow, it is already desperately trying to do.
”日本厚劳省内部还有观点指出，2009年爆发甲型H1N1流感时，“把资源配置到边境防控措施方面，导致医疗机构变得脆弱”。
"Japan's H1N1 flu outbreak in 2009, it is also argued within the province," the allocation of resources to border control measures led to the vulnerability of medical institutions. "
并且邮轮上的人员约8成是外国人，而日本只有有限的医疗机构有能力接待不会日语的外国人。
And about 80% of the people on board are foreigners, and Japan has only a limited number of medical facilities capable of handling foreigners who do not speak Japanese.
此外，当“钻石公主”号靠岸时，日本对新冠病毒的检测能力每天只有300人次左右。
In addition, when the Princess Diamond docked, Japan's ability to detect the new Crown virus was only about 300 a day.
如果集中力量检测船上所有人，很可能削弱日本其他各地的检测能力。
Concentrating on the detection of all on board is likely to weaken detection capabilities in other parts of Japan.
日本环境感染学会调查组负责人，岩手医科大学教授樱井滋表示：“既然陆地上没有能够容纳很多人的巨大检疫站，那么（留在船上）就是合适的方法”。
"Since there are no huge quarantine stations on land that can hold a large number of people, staying on board is the right approach," said Hiroshi Sakurai, a professor at Iwama Medical University, who led the research team at the Society for Environmental Infection in Japan.
隔离生活历经初始的混乱后，“钻石公主”号上的船员和乘客过上了按部就班的隔离生活。
After the initial chaos of the isolated life, the crew and passengers of the Princess Diamond lived a life of orderly segregation.
公主邮轮表示，船上乘客继续享用免费网络和电信服务，在每日菜单上选择的食物和饮料将被直接送至隔离的舱房，通过厚劳省检测的船员仍会按规定履行职责。
"Passengers on board the ship will continue to enjoy free Internet and telecommunication services," said the princess. "The food and drinks selected on the daily menu will be sent directly to the isolated cabin.
此外，邮轮公司也与权威卫生机构紧密协作，采取措施最大程度减少传染性疾病在船上的输入和扩散，并增加环境消毒的频次。
In addition, cruise companies, in close collaboration with authoritative health agencies, have taken measures to minimize the importation and spread of infectious diseases on board ships and to increase the frequency of environmental disinfection.
与此同时，一些乘客开始在社交网络分享自己的隔离生活，向各国网友和媒体介绍每天早中晚吃了什么，自己和同伴如何打发“禁足”的时光。
Meanwhile, some passengers are sharing their segregated lives on social networking sites, introducing users and the media from around the world to what they eat each morning and evening and how they and their peers spend their time in prison.
船上发放的折纸和数独游戏 来源：Daxa的Twitter然而隔离期并非平静又愉快。
The ship's origami and Sudoku sources: Daxa's Twitter feed, but the isolation period was not peaceful and pleasant.
如果病毒检测的结果呈阳性，乘客和船员会被带下船送往日本的医疗机构。
If the virus is tested positive, the passengers and crew are taken off the ship to a medical facility in Japan.
如果检测呈阴性，他们将留在船上直到隔离期结束。
If the tests are negative, they will remain on board until the end of the quarantine period.
美国乘客泰勒·托雷斯对界面新闻表示，他和妻子因为上船前后得了流感、出现咳嗽症状而率先接受病毒检测，没有被通知确诊。
US passenger Taylor Torres told the Interface News that he and his wife were the first to be tested for the virus because of flu and cough before and after boarding the ship.
然而夫妇二人也迟迟没有收到厚劳省宣布他们结果为阴性的消息。
However, the couple were also slow to receive word from Howe-Law province that they had negative results.
在有限的检测能力下，船上所有人只得持续等待日本厚劳省发布令人大悲或大喜的通知。
With limited detection capacity, the owners of the ship had to wait continuously for the lamentable or exhilarating announcement from the Japanese province of Thurao.
隔离前三天（至2月7日），邮轮上共确诊70人；到了第六天（2月10日）人数翻倍接近翻倍至130多例确诊。
Three days before the quarantine (until February 7), 70 people were diagnosed on board; by day six (February 10), the number nearly doubled to more than 130 confirmed cases.
此时中国香港乘客黄雅曦对界面新闻透露，船上发放的口罩已经从普通口罩升级为N95。
At this point, Hong Kong, China passenger Huang Yaxi told the interface news that the ship's issued mask has been upgraded from ordinary mask to N95.
北海道大学教授西浦博研究称，自厚劳省要求乘客和船员待在房间里待命的5日起，平均传染人数从5人减少到1人，“通过采取对策，感染率急速缩小了”。
The average number of cases fell from five to one five days after Hokkaido University asked passengers and crew to stay in their rooms for standby, according to a study by Hokkaido University professor Shipbo.
到了2月17日，厚劳省宣布一日内新增99人确诊，创隔离期内最高。
On February 17, Hou Law announced that 99 new cases had been diagnosed within a day, the highest number in the quarantine period.
截至2月20日，船上共发现634人感染新冠病毒，其中两名80多岁乘客不治离世。
As at 20 February, a total of 634 people had been found infected with the new crown virus, two of whom died in their 80s.
随着确诊病例数量的急剧上升，以及多名上船的厚劳省职员确诊，越来越多的观察研究认为，船上的隔离并不完善。
With the sharp rise in the number of confirmed cases and the diagnosis of many of the thick-labour provincial staff on board, a growing body of observational research suggests that segregation on board ships is not perfect.
美国《纽约时报》指出，这是“史无前例的失败”。
The New York Times called it an "unprecedented failure."
韩国也有电视台批评称：“在保健卫生领域一直自诩为世界一流的日本声誉留下污点。
South Korea has also been criticised by a television station as saying: "The reputation of Japan, which has always prided itself on being world-class in health care, has been tarnished.
”日本国立传染病研究所提到，为了维持船上生活的运行，船员必须继续提供一定服务，这也导致船员在隔离期内没有像乘客一样完全隔离。
The National Institute for Infectious Diseases (NIPI) mentioned that in order to maintain the operation of life on board ships, crew members must continue to provide certain services, which also results in the crew not being completely segregated from passengers during the quarantine period.
从2月11日起上船指导的樱井滋教授发现，船上人员戴着的N95口罩很容易在15分钟后让人喘不过气，但松开透气的过程可能就会有手脸接触，导致病毒蔓延。
Professor Sakurai, who has been on board since February 11, found the N95 mask worn by crew members can easily become unbreathable in 15 minutes, but the process can lead to hand-to-face contact and spread of the virus.
此外船员手册中写着用自来水洗手后再涂酒精消毒，但如果手上留有水，消毒的效果就会打折扣。
In addition, the crew manual states that hand washing with running water is followed by alcohol disinfection, but if water is left on the hands, the effect of disinfection is compromised.
樱井滋指出，关于船内的状况，“在船内，虽然按照手册采取了基本的感染预防措施，但是船员感受到了由于国家和语言都不同，传达防疫对策的难度”。
Regarding the condition of the ship, Sakurai noted that "in the ship, although basic infection prevention measures were taken in accordance with the manual, the crew felt it was difficult to communicate the response because of differences in country and language," Sakurai said.
在隔离期即将结束时，一位医学专家发布的视频引发更大的争议。
Towards the end of the quarantine period, a video released by a medical expert sparked more controversy.
神户大学医院感染症内科的教授岩田健太郎2月18日在YouTube发布视频讲述了他在“钻石公主”号上看到的场景。
Professor Kentaro Iwata, professor of infectious diseases at Kobe University Hospital, posted a YouTube video on Feb. 18 about the scene he saw aboard the Princess Diamond.
在岩田于2月20日自行删除前，该视频已获得超100万次点击。
The video received more than 1 million hits before Iwanda was deleted on February 20.
岩田健太郎自称在传染病方面工作20年，有应对埃博拉病毒和SARS的专业知识和经验。
Mr. Iwata claims to have 20 years of experience in infectious diseases and expertise and experience in dealing with Ebola and SARS.
即便如此，他仍然认为邮轮上的情况“真的非常悲惨，从心底感到害怕”。
Even so, he said, the situation on the cruise ship was "really tragic and frightening from the bottom of my heart."
他说，邮轮上没有区分有病毒传染可能的“红区”和无需做防护的“绿区”，很多人没戴口罩，发热患者会从自己房间直接走去医务室。
He said there was no "red zone" or "green area" where the virus could spread, and many people did not wear masks and fever sufferers would walk directly from their rooms to the infirmary.
检疫所的人会突然跟他说：“啊，刚才走过去的那人是患者”。
Quarantine officials would suddenly say to him, "Ah, the man who has just gone by is a patient."
此外，岩田自称在与厚劳省高层对话时对方态度冷淡。
In addition, Iwada claims to have been lukewarm during high-level talks with Hou Law.
想提建议的他被叫下船，还取消了他的检疫许可。
He was called off the boat and his quarantine permit was revoked.
他认为日本没有像中国一样重视消息的公开透明，完全没有公开‘钻石公主’号上的情报。
Japan, he said, did not attach as much importance to transparency as China, and did not disclose information on board the Princess Diamond.
“如果谁都不公开，我就只有在这里公开了。
"If no one is in the open, I'll only be here in public.
”不过世卫组织突发事件规划执行主任迈克尔·瑞恩2月18日表示：“这艘船上的情况显然已经发生了变化，日本当局最初做出隔离船上所有乘客的决定，这使得乘客可以留在一个可以被观察的环境中，在那里他们有单独的住宿设施和其他的一切。
But Michael Ryan, WHO's executive director of emergency planning, said on the 18th: "The situation on the ship has apparently changed and the Japanese authorities initially made the decision to isolate all passengers on board, allowing them to remain in a observable environment where they have separate accommodation and everything else.
显然，在当时的情况下，这比让所有人分散在世界各地要好得多。
Clearly, under the circumstances, it would have been much better than spreading everyone around the world.
”下船以后2月19日，也就是“钻石公主”号隔离期结束的日子。
February 19, the day after the arrival of the ship, was the end of the period of quarantine of the Princess Diamond.
数百名乘客依次离开，登上久违的陆地。
Hundreds of passengers left in turn for the long-lost land.
而日本政府也开始对岩田发表在网络上的说法予以解释。
The Japanese government has also begun to explain Iwata's statement on the Internet.
厚劳省官员对《朝日新闻》指出，船上没有专家，由“外行领导传染病防御”的说法有误。
Hou Lao officials told Asahi Shimbun that there were no experts on board and that the claim that "lay people lead the epidemic prevention" was erroneous.
熟悉传染病的医护人员每天都在现场工作，还要接受学会针对传染病的指导。
Health-care workers familiar with infectious diseases work on the spot every day and receive guidance from the Society for dealing with infectious diseases.
他强调像医院一样在船上做区分存在结构上的局限性，运送感染者时其他人都会设法避免出现在走廊上。
He stressed the structural limitations of being able to distinguish between ships like a hospital, with others trying to avoid being in the corridors when transporting infected people.
此前公主邮轮公司也表示，日本政府为邮轮至少提供了7000个防护口罩和由16名医生、12名护士及医疗接待人员构成的专业团队。
Earlier, Princess Cruise said the Japanese government had provided at least 7,000 face masks for cruise ships and a specialist team of 16 doctors, 12 nurses and medical receptionists.
2月20日早些时候，日本厚劳相加藤胜信回应称，根据现场工作人员的说法，感染症专家们指出了各种各样的课题，直到今天每天都在做修正。
Earlier on Feb. 20, Japan's Hakushiko Kato responded that, according to field workers, infection experts had pointed out a variety of topics that were being corrected every day to this day.
对于网络上有关日本政府施压岩田删除视频的说法，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在20日的记者会上否认政府从中干预，并强调“（船上）有管理感染的专家常驻”。
Japan's top cabinet secretary, Naoto Kan, denied government intervention in the Internet about the government's pressure on Iwada to remove the video, stressing that "there are experts on board to manage the infection."
岩田在2月20日自行删除了视频。
Iwada deleted the video on Feb. 20.
这天下午，他在东京通过电视画面直播举行的记者会上表示，“指出问题后，船内针对感染的对策有了很大的改善。
"After pointing out the problem, the response to the infection in the ship has improved a lot," he said at a news conference in Tokyo broadcast live on television that afternoon.
”岩田称：“我上船的时候，船内的感染对策还不够充分，昨天（2月19日），从有关人员那里听说，船内的区域划分得到了彻底的贯彻，对策有了很大改善。
"When I got on board, the measures for the infection in the ship were not enough," Iwata said. "Yesterday (February 19), people heard that the division of the area inside the ship had been thoroughly carried out and the response improved considerably.
”此外，“关于船内感染者的数据，国立传染病研究所首次发表研究报告等信息公开的措施，也有一定的作用”。
In addition, "information disclosure measures such as the first publication of a study by the National Institute of Infectious Diseases have a role to play with regard to data on people infected on board ships."
然而几番说明的公信力又被厚劳省副大臣桥本岳破坏。
However, the credibility of several statements by Hashimoto Deputy Minister of Hashimoto destroyed.
他在Twitter上发图强调船上区分了“清洁路线”和“不洁路线”，结果被网友发现两道门前方共用宽敞的中厅，两条路实际上难以隔离。
He posted a Twitter map highlighting the "clean route" from the "impure route," only to be found by netizens sharing a spacious lobby in front of the two doors, making it virtually impossible to isolate the two roads.
随后桥本删除了图片。
Hashimoto then deleted the image.
桥本岳发在Twitter的图片岩田评价道：“显然他把推特删除了，我很高兴他知道问题确实存在。
"Obviously he deleted Twitter, and I'm glad he knew there was a problem," Hashimoto commented in a Twitter photo, Iwata.
”同时岩田指出，从19日开始离开邮轮的乘客“还有感染的风险，需要接受两周观察”。
Meanwhile, Iwada said passengers leaving the ship from May 19 "are at risk of infection and will need two weeks of observation."
然而大量日本乘客已乘坐公共交通工具回家，无需接受额外隔离。
However, a large number of Japanese passengers have returned home by public transport without additional isolation.
川崎市健康安全研究所所长冈部信彦2月12日对《日本经济新闻》表示，日本全国只有大约1800个传染病专用床位，如果轻症患者也要住院，医院将很快人满为患，优先治疗重症患者的机制非常重要。
There are only about 1,800 beds for infectious diseases nationwide, and hospitals will soon be overcrowded if people with mild illnesses are admitted to hospitals, the Kawasaki Health and Safety Institute (Kawasaki) told the Japan Economic News on Tuesday.
樱井滋认为，以美国为例，船上包机回国的乘客只有300人，在军事基地隔离是可行的。
Sakurai believes that in the United States, for example, where only 300 passengers are chartered to return home, segregation at military bases is feasible.
然而船上日本人太多，没有可以隔离的设施，“这是现实”。
But there are so many Japanese on board that there are no separate facilities. "It's a reality."
世界卫生组织2月18日在日内瓦表示，虽然让乘客和乘务员留在船上的最初措施是令人满意的，但感染的蔓延超出了预想。
The World Health Organization said in Geneva on 18 February that although initial measures to keep passengers and crew on board were satisfactory, the spread of the infection exceeded expectations.
该组织还呼吁对下船的人继续提供必要的护理。
It also called for the necessary care to continue to be provided to disembarking persons.
“资源有限，医院总会有某些物资耗尽，如果说东京地区可以处理这样的情况，日本其他地方就不一定了，”国际医疗福祉大学公众卫生学教授和田耕治说。
"With limited resources, hospitals will always run out of supplies, and if the Tokyo area can handle this, the rest of Japan is not," says Takahiro Tanaka, a professor of public health at the International University of Medical Well-being.
“疫情可能还要持续至少几个月，政府最好制定一个计划，为长期应对做打算。
"The epidemic is likely to continue for at least a few months, and it would be best for the government to develop a plan for a long-term response.
”“当我们回顾过去时，很容易再对当时某一时刻的公共卫生决策做出评判，”世卫组织的迈克尔·瑞恩说。
"When we look back, it's easy to re-judge public health decisions at that point in time," says WHO's Michael Ryan.
“这是发生在船上的不幸事件，我们相信日本当局和接收这些人的政府将能够以适当的方式跟踪这些（下船的）人，确保他们得到适当的护理。
"This is an unfortunate incident on board the ship, and we trust that the Japanese authorities and the Governments that receive them will be able to track these people in an appropriate manner and ensure that they receive appropriate care.
研究这一特殊事件，看看是什么问题导致传播给船上的人，这是非常重要的。
It is important to study this particular incident and see what causes the problem to spread to the people on board.
”他说。
'he said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“钻石公主”历险记：邮轮隔离真的到位吗？。
"The Diamond Princess" Adventures: Is Cruise Isolation Really in Place?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "“钻石公主”历险记：邮轮隔离真的到位吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“当我们回顾过去时，很容易对当时某一时刻的公共卫生决策做出评判。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "When we look back, it's easy to judge public health decisions at a given moment in time.
当时的决定，显然比让所有人分散在世界各地要好得多。
It was a much better decision than to spread everyone around the world.
研究这一特殊事件，看看过程中出了什么问题，这非常重要。
It is important to study this particular event and see what went wrong in the process.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
