日本邮轮上的“网红爷爷”确诊了。
The "grandpa" on the Japanese cruise ship has been diagnosed.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 张无为亚伯在“钻石公主”号上拍下的富士山 本文图片均来自大卫·亚伯社交媒体2月19日，在经历了14天的海上隔离后，备受关注的“钻石公主”号邮轮首批新冠病毒检测呈阴性且未与确诊病例同舱室的443名乘客终于回到了陆地上。
| | | | | | | | | | | [dvnewspage] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
与此同时，因几乎每天在社交媒体“脸书”上发布视频和文字“直播”船上隔离生活而被全世界网友关注的74岁英国乘客大卫·亚伯（David Abel），却和妻子莎莉·亚伯（Sally Abel）忧心忡忡地在自己的客舱内等待着。
Meanwhile, David Abel, a 74-year-old British passenger who has been watched almost daily on social-media Facebook by Internet users living in isolation on video and text on Facebook, waits anxiously in his cabin with his wife, Sally Abel.
亚伯夫妇本应在当天结束隔离，但就在此前一天，一名无法用英语交流的日本检疫工作人员敲开了亚伯夫妇的房门，示意他们可以准备下船。
Abel and his wife were supposed to end quarantine the same day, but the day before, a Japanese quarantine worker who could not communicate in English knocked on Mr. and Mrs. Abel's door, indicating that they were ready to disembark.
“我问，‘那么，（病毒检测）是阳性（positive）？’对方点了点头。
"I asked, 'So, is [virus detection] positive?' The other side nodded.
”亚伯随即在“脸书”上宣布了这一结果。
Abel then announced the results in Facebook.
但一夜过后，亚伯觉得，对方的点头可能只是表达对亚伯夫妇即将下船一事是“positive（肯定）”的。
But after a night, Abel felt that the other's nod might be just a sign that they were about to disembark.
然而，不到两个小时之后，亚伯再度更正称，在一位会讲英语的医生的帮助下，他终于搞清楚了，“我们被确诊感染了新冠病毒”，尽管亚伯夫妇俩都觉得自己身体状态很好。
Less than two hours later, however, Abel corrected himself again, saying that with the help of an English-speaking doctor, he had finally figured out that "we were diagnosed with the new crown virus," even though both Abel and his wife felt in good health.
这一过山车似的乌龙事件，让一直以来关心亚伯夫妇的全世界网友颇为忧心——他们不愿意相信，这个每天发布隔离生活点滴、总是乐观开朗的“网瘾爷爷”，会在隔离结束前的最后一天收到这个坏消息，甚至有人怀疑确诊信息是亚伯的“脸书”账号被“黑客”入侵后的恶作剧。
The roller coaster ride worried netizens around the world who have long cared about Abel and his wife - who did not want to believe that the upbeat grandpa, who released isolated bits of life every day, would receive the bad news on the last day before the end of the segregation. Some even suspect that the diagnosis was a hoax after Abel's Facebook account was hacked.
19日中午，亚伯不得不在“脸书”上发布了他的第61条Vlog（视频博客），向网友证明一切都是真的，“他是他自己”。
At noon on the 19th, Abel had to post his rule 61 Vlog on Facebook, proving to netizens that it was all true, "He's himself."
截至20日晚，停靠在日本横滨港的“钻石公主”号邮轮上的3711名乘客和船员中，已累计确诊634人，其中两名80多岁的患者不治身亡。
As of the evening of the 20th, out of a total of 3,711 passengers and crew on board the MV Princess Diamond, docked in Yokohama, Japan, 634 people had been diagnosed, two of whom died in their 80s.
此外，已有近千名乘客结束隔离下船，包括美国、韩国等多国组织了撤侨行动。
In addition, nearly a thousand passengers have left the ship, including the United States, South Korea and other multinational organizations organized evacuation operations.
2月20日下午3点，亚伯更新了“脸书”状态，他贴出了自己和莎莉接受治疗的画面，并称夫妻俩在一家“可爱的”医院，“我们的两个护士很漂亮，莎莉也很喜欢医生。
At 3 p.m. on Feb. 20, Abel updated his Facebook status, posted images of himself and Sally being treated, and said the couple were in a "lovely" hospital. "Our two nurses are beautiful, and Sally loves the doctor.
”亚伯似乎又恢复了此前的乐观和幽默。
Abel seemed to regain his former optimism and humour.
他说，次日他将进行胸片、心电图、尿检等项目，网友们的信息他已收到，只是他之后或将不便回复。
He said the next day he will be chest, electrocardiogram, urine tests, and other items, he has received information, but he may not be able to reply.
2月20日，亚伯夫妇在日本的医院接受检查被打乱的金婚纪念之旅大卫·亚伯来自英国北安普敦，是一名婚礼主持，并开办了相关的培训公司。
On Feb. 20, Abel and his wife were examined in a Japanese hospital on an interrupted golden wedding anniversary. David Abel, from Northampton, England, was a wedding host and started a training company.
在他的个人主页上，他还称自己为“环球旅行者”和“自然摄影师”，经常和妻子莎莉到世界各地旅游，在“脸书”上发布用单反相机拍摄的照片。
On his home page, he also calls himself Universal Traveler and Nature Photographer, and travels around the world with his wife Sally, posting photos of them on Facebook with single-reflex cameras.
“钻石公主”号之旅本来是亚伯夫妇为了庆祝结婚50周年而特别制订的行程，亚伯为此订了一间昂贵的套房，房间约有80平方米，是一般无窗舱房的五倍，房间外还有阳台，可以吹海风看海景。
Abel ordered an expensive suite of about 80 square meters, five times the size of a typical windowless cabin, and a balcony that blew the sea breeze over the sea.
1月20日，邮轮从母港横滨启航，先后停靠了日本鹿儿岛、中国香港、越南下龙湾和中国台湾等地。
On January 20, the ship set sail from Yokohama, its home port, and docked at Kagoshima of Japan, Hong Kong, China, Ha Long Bay, Vietnam and Taiwan, China.
每到一个景点打卡，亚伯都会在他的“脸书”账号上分享自己和妻子拍摄的照片。
Abel shared photos of himself and his wife on his Facebook account for every card he visited.
1月22日，他们在日本鹿儿岛看活火山和日本园林；1月25日，来到了中国香港；1月28日，夫妻俩在越南爬上了数百级阶梯去参观寺庙……此时，新冠病毒疫情已在中国发生，平时就有“网上冲浪”习惯的亚伯是这艘载有来自五十多个国家的乘客的豪华邮轮上，较早关注到疫情的人之一。
They visited active volcanoes and Japanese gardens in Kagoshima, Japan, on January 22, and Hong Kong, China, on January 25, and climbed hundreds of stairs to visit temples in Vietnam on January 28th... Abel, who is known to surf the Internet, was one of the first people to notice the epidemic on a luxury liner carrying passengers from more than 50 countries.
1月30日，亚伯记录道：只要观测体温、勤洗手、不使用公共厕所，病毒在这艘船上应该不会成为问题。
Abel wrote on January 30 that the virus should not be a problem on board as long as the body temperature is observed, hands are washed frequently and public toilets are not used.
但是，回到英国后，他会和莎莉自觉隔离14天，因为这艘船上有来自中国香港的乘客。
But when he returned to Britain, he and Sally felt isolated for 14 days because the ship had passengers from Hong Kong, China.
“除了恐惧，我们享受着船上的每一刻。
"We enjoy every moment on board, except the fear.
”亚伯夫妇在船上的照片然而，这艘被选为亚伯夫妇金婚纪念之旅的豪华邮轮，最终未能免受疫情的袭扰。
But the luxury liner, chosen for the Abel and Abel's golden wedding anniversary, was not immune to the epidemic.
2月1日，一名曾搭乘邮轮从横滨前往香港的乘客被确诊感染新冠肺炎；2月3日，邮轮提前一天返回横滨港，但没有靠岸，日本厚生劳动省开始进行全船检疫。
On 1 February, a passenger who had travelled by cruise from Yokohama to Hong Kong was confirmed to have contracted pneumonia. On 3 February, the vessel returned to Yokohama port one day in advance, but did not dock. The Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour began to carry out full-scale quarantine.
2月3日上午8点，邮轮广播向乘客通报，船只将会提前到达横滨并接受检疫，但广播并未提及那名被确诊的香港乘客。
At 8 a.m. on February 3, Cruise announced to passengers that the ship would reach Yokohama early and undergo quarantine, but the radio did not mention the Hong Kong passenger who had been confirmed.
当天，亚伯在他的“脸书”上转发了一则新闻，提及“钻石公主”号将因被确诊乘客而进行检疫，“天啊，这就是我们乘的这艘船！”亚伯大呼。
On the same day, Abel posted a news item on his Facebook page, saying that the Princess Diamond would be quarantined by the passengers who had been diagnosed.
他说，这时，已经有乘客猜测，他们会被强制隔离，这艘船将“无处可去”。
By this time, he said, there had been speculation that they would be forcibly quarantined and that the ship would have "nowhere to go."
2月3日晚，检疫人员登船，检疫工作一直持续到第二天。
On the night of February 3, the quarantine personnel boarded the ship and the quarantine work continued until the next day.
亚伯4日立即取消了下船后飞回英国的航班，他几乎百分之百肯定，自己和莎莉无法按时回到英国。
Abel 4 immediately cancelled the disembarkation of the flight back to England, he almost 100% sure that he and Sally can not return to the United Kingdom on time.
2月5日，日本厚生劳动省宣布邮轮上首批被检测者中有10人确诊感染新冠病毒，为防止疫情扩散，日本官方要求所有乘客和船员在邮轮上集中隔离14天，除了当值的工作人员和每天一个半小时的“放风”时间，所有人必须呆在自己的房间里。
On February 5, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour announced that 10 of the first people tested on board the cruise ship had been confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus. To prevent the spread of the disease, Japanese officials required all passengers and crew to remain in their rooms for 14 days, except for staff on duty and an hour and a half of "outdoor exercise."
这一消息让船上很多乘客一时难以接受，他们中的大多数人是和亚伯夫妇一样的老年人——2666名乘客中，60岁以上占八成。
Many of the passengers on board, most of them elderly people like Abel and his wife, were 60 years of age or older, out of 2,666 passengers.
他们中的一些人患有各类基础疾病，也无法从网络上获取信息。
Some of them suffer from various basic illnesses and have no access to information on the Internet.
突如其来的两周隔离生活让他们无所适从。
The sudden two weeks of isolation left them bewildered.
乐观的“网瘾爷爷”相比之下，尽管行动受到限制，亚伯似乎并未被隔离生活所困扰，闲来无事，他在网上频繁发布视频和文字，讲述自己和妻子的隔离生活，更以自己的乐观幽默，以及“话唠”式的视频风格，成为了收获全世界无数粉丝的“网红爷爷”。
In contrast, despite restrictions on movement, Abel appears to be enjoying a quiet life, posting videos and text frequently on the Internet, recounting his isolated life with his wife, and displaying his own optimistic humor and "talking-chatter" video style, making him a "net-red grandfather" who has won millions of fans around the world.
“钻石戴夫和公主莎莉（Diamond Dave and Princess Sally）在邮轮上接受检疫的冒险之旅。
"Diamond Dave and Princess Sally are on a cruise ship for a quarantine adventure.
这是一个真诚的频道，你会比任何人都先听到最新消息。
It's a genuine channel, and you'll hear the latest news before anyone else.
”亚伯在自己视频网站Youtube主页介绍一栏写道，“戴夫”他名字大卫的昵称。
"Dave," his nickname for David, wrote Abel in the introductory column of his YouTube home page.
亚伯发布在社交网站上的视频截图2月4日上午9点，亚伯发布了检疫开始后的第一条视频，介绍自己和船上乘客的处境。
Abel released a video clip on the social networking site at 9 a.m. Feb. 4. Abel released the first video of the quarantine, describing his situation and that of the passengers on board.
“船上信息不及时”，“检疫太慢”，亚伯开启“吐槽”模式，由于网络信号差，他将视频分为两段发。
Abel turned on the spit mode, dividing the video into two parts because of poor network traffic.
在第二则视频里，他戴着墨镜，站在阳台上，背靠大海，仍是一副正在度假的悠闲模样。
In the second video, he stands on the balcony in sunglasses, his back to the sea, still looking as leisurely as he is on holiday.
在证实将被隔离14天后，亚伯在视频中说，幸好他订了有阳台的房间，“我们从中吸取了一个教训，多花点儿钱订一间有阳台的房间特别值得。
After 14 days of confirmed isolation, Abel said in the video that he had booked a room with a balcony. "We learned the lesson that it's especially worth spending a little more money on a room with a balcony.
”2月6日，亚伯在邮轮上拍摄夕阳2月6日，亚伯上传了一张自己架着三脚架，用单反相机拍摄横滨夕阳的照片。
On February 6, Abel filmed the sun on a cruise ship. On February 6, Abel posted a picture of himself with a tripod and a single-camera camera taking the setting sun in Yokohama.
夕阳下的大桥、海面、远处的高楼和富士山，一切都很美。
The bridge in the sunset, the sea, the high buildings in the distance and Mount Fuji, everything is beautiful.
2月8日，亚伯说，他想念自己的两条狗“布丁”和“蜂蜜”了，他上传了一张自己与爱宠的合影，引发网友们在评论区争相晒出自己与狗的照片。
On Feb. 8, Abel said he missed two of his dogs, pudding and honey, and posted a photo of himself and his pet, sparking online reviews of himself and his dog.
2月8日，亚伯拍下的和他打招呼的临舱乘客同一天，亚伯还在房间的阳台上，与两名相隔不远的“邻居”打招呼。
On February 8, Abel photographed the cabin passenger who greeted him. Abel was still on the balcony of the room, greeting two nearby neighbors.
“这是一个美丽的早晨，生活是美好的。
"It was a beautiful morning, and life was beautiful.
”亚伯写道，“他们精神都很好，莎莉和我周围都是一些可爱的人啊！”不仅如此，面对隔离的苦闷，74岁的亚伯还不忘“皮”一下。
Abel wrote, "They are all in good spirits, and Sally and I are surrounded by lovely people!" Not only that, but Abel, 74, did not forget to "skin" in the face of the agony of isolation.
2月8日，他发布了一段妻子莎莉跟着电视节目学太极的视频，配文打趣道：“她不知道我在拍（她），所以只有你们和我知道。
On Feb. 8, he released a video of his wife, Sally, learning tai chi from a TV show, joking: "She didn't know I was shooting [her], so only you and I knew.
”除了分享自己的日常，亚伯还会留意并分享邮轮上发生的新闻。
"In addition to sharing his daily routine, Abel watched and shared the news on the cruise.
2月5日，亚伯说，早上7点，“两架直升机和四艘船一直停靠在我们船边”。
At 7 a.m., Abel said, "Two helicopters and four ships have been docking alongside our ships."
2月6日，“昨晚有一位女士没有收到晚餐，她走出房间想找人问问，工作人员发现后立刻对她大喊，让她马上回到自己的房间。
February 6, "Last night, a woman did not receive dinner, she went out of the room to ask someone to ask, staff immediately found her shouted, she immediately back to her room.
”这天，亚伯还拍下了一张乘客对外呼救的照片，“美国，救救我们！”这句话被写在一张布上，挂在阳台上。
One day, Abel took a picture of a passenger crying out for help. "America, Help Us!" was written on a piece of cloth and hung on the balcony.
邮轮上的废水处理12日，亚伯关注到了船上的污水处理，“消毒液被倒进了邮轮废水中，希望媒体能看到并报道。
On the 12th, Abel watched as the ship's wastewater was treated. "The disinfectant was poured into the ship's wastewater, hoping the media would see it and report it.
”亚伯的视频引来世界各地网友的评论和祝福，他们感谢亚伯一直用积极的态度来应对这场危机。
"Abel's video drew comments and good wishes from netizens around the world, who thanked Abel for his positive attitude in dealing with the crisis.
每天，亚伯都会开启一个话题，话题下的评论区成了人们讨论此事的最佳场所。
Every day, Abel opened up a topic, and the comment area under the topic became the best place for people to talk about it.
有人称，看了亚伯的视频，“袜子都笑掉了”，还有无数媒体在其状态下留言，想采访他，邀请他做节目。
Some claimed to have watched Abel's video, "all his socks laughed off," and countless other media outlets left messages in his presence, wanting to interview him and invite him to do the show.
有粉丝留言称，“亚伯，一夜之间成为明星的感觉如何？”“我不想成为明星，我只想引起人们的注意。
One fan message said, "Abel, how did it feel to be a star overnight?" "I didn't want to be a star.
”亚伯回复说。
"Abel replied.
成为“网红”之后，亚伯还当起了“中介”——来自世界各地的“钻石公主”号老年乘客的子女通过亚伯的“脸书”页面了解船上真实情况，并将自己无法熟练使用互联网的父母的名字及在船上内部电话的号码告诉亚伯，亚伯一一找到他们，通过电话线和网络，为邮轮内受困的老人和邮轮外忧心的子女架起了桥梁。
After becoming a "net red," Abel also acted as a "middleman" - children of older passengers from around the world who read Abel's Facebook page about the real situation on board, and told Abel the names of parents who were unable to use the Internet skillfully and the numbers of their internal telephone numbers.
亚伯与莎莉的儿子斯蒂芬·亚伯（Stephen Abel）接受了英国独立电视台（ITV）25分钟的独家采访，但在最终播出的节目中，只保留了4分钟的采访内容，让斯蒂芬最遗憾的是，自己父亲通过直播来帮助船上乘客的内容被删去了，他本希望更多人可以通过这种方式找到亚伯夫妇，让自己的父母“有事可做，不致于被憋疯”。
Abel and Sally's son Stephen Abel gave an exclusive 25-minute interview with ITV, but only four minutes of interviews were retained in the final broadcast, leaving Stephen to regret that his father's live coverage of the ship's passengers had been deleted.
斯蒂芬因此在自己的“脸书”主页上再次分享了父亲的主页，希望更多人留下积极的信息，帮助父母度过隔离的最后几天。
Stephen is sharing his father's home page again on his Facebook page, hoping more people will leave positive messages and help parents get through the final days of isolation.
亚伯贴出的他与“布丁”的照片等不到的糖尿病人菜单尽管亚伯时时表现得乐观甚至有些调皮，但在“钻石公主”号上的隔离生活对身患糖尿病的他而言并不舒适。
The Diabetic Menu Abel posted pictures of him and the pudding showed that while Abel was optimistic and even mischievous at times, his seclusion on board the Princess Diamond was not comfortable for him with diabetes.
据斯蒂芬透露，父亲亚伯患有2型糖尿病，患者通常会表现出高血糖、伴有意识水平下降以及低血压的症状，容易被感染。
According to Stephen, his father, Abel, has type 2 diabetes, and his patients often show symptoms of high blood sugar, decreased consciousness and low blood pressure, making him susceptible to infection.
亚伯几年前还被诊断出患有早发性痴呆，这也是糖尿病的并发症。
Abel was diagnosed with Alzheimer's a few years ago, a complication of diabetes.
隔离第二天，亚伯在视频直播中说，自己已经有十六七个小时没有进食，对于患有糖尿病的他来说，这很可能导致昏迷。
The next day, Abel said in a live video broadcast that he had not eaten for sixteen or seven hours and that for him with diabetes it was likely to lead to a coma.
他的直播奏效了，工作人员响应这一请求，随后送来了食品，虽然亚伯后来又在视频中开玩笑似的喊话“想吃香蕉”、“想要一瓶威士忌”都得到了满足，但他长期需要的“糖尿病人特殊菜单”却一直没有得到回应。
His live broadcast worked, and the staff responded to the request, and food was delivered, though Abel later joked in the video, "Want a banana" and "A bottle of whiskey," but his long-needed "special menu for diabetics" remained unanswered.
2月13日，凌晨5点，“地狱般的一个晚上”，亚伯依然醒着，旁边莎莉已经熟睡，他默默打开手机，敲下一行字：“我很喜欢与他人联系，但不擅长向他人寻求帮助。
On February 13, at 5 a.m., "a night like hell," Abel was still awake, and Sally was asleep. He silently opened his cell phone and typed the following line: "I enjoy communicating with others, but I'm not very good at soliciting help from others.
”邮轮上提供的餐食“钻石公主”号提供的餐食虽然是一流的，但对患有糖尿病的亚伯来说，却并不友好，隔离一周以来的困扰在这个夜晚倾泻而出：“自从被隔离以来，没有超过三顿饭是符合我要求的，我的胃一天24小时都在咕咕叫，我真的很饿。
The meal served on board the vessel, Princess Diamond, while first-class, was unfriendly to Abel, who suffered from diabetes. "Not more than three meals have been served since I was quarantined, and my stomach is cooing 24 hours a day.
”亚伯列出了邮轮每天提供的早餐：橙汁——对糖尿病人有害；两杯酸奶——含乳糖的奶制品对他来说是致命的；三个面包圈、一个馅饼和一个松饼——都是高碳水化合物，它们转化为葡萄糖后会让他的血糖“高得吓人”。
Abel listed the daily breakfasts for cruise ships: orange juice - bad for diabetics; two yogurt - lactose-containing dairy products that were deadly to him; and three bagels, a pie, and a muffin - all high in carbohydrates that converted to glucose made his blood sugar "alarmingly high."
所以，亚伯说，他一天当中的大部分时间不吃东西，只是喝水。
So Abel said he did not eat for most of the day, but drank water.
亚伯于是郑重地提出了自己对船上三餐的要求，他还表示，为了方便厨房，早餐只需要一杯不含乳糖的牛奶和玉米片就可以了。
Abel made a solemn request for three meals on the ship, saying that for the kitchen, all he needed for breakfast was a cup of milk and cornflakes free of lactose.
“我每天就只需要这一些，这就是我想要的。
"I just need it every day. That's what I want.
”然而，亚伯也知道，直接给餐厅打电话不是最好的解决办法，“因为他们压力很大，从他们的声音中可以听出来。
However, Abel also knew that calling the restaurant directly was not the best solution, "because they were so stressed that their voices could be heard.
”他写了一封信，希望通过船员间接转告给厨师。
He wrote a letter which he hoped would be communicated indirectly to the cook through the crew.
2月14日，他终于收到了需要的早餐。
On 14 February, he finally received the breakfast he needed.
2月14日，亚伯终于在吃到了他要求的早餐“光总会胜利”除此之外，随着隔离时间的推进和越来越多确诊病例的宣布，亚伯也越来越难以掩饰自己的沮丧。
On Feb. 14, Abel finally got his breakfast "Light triumphs," and Abel found it increasingly difficult to hide his frustration as isolation progressed and more and more confirmed cases were announced.
2月9日，他在直播中说，自己受够了。
On February 9, he said in a live broadcast that he had had enough.
2月14日，距离隔离结束还有5天，亚伯上传了一个长达42分钟的视频，分享他在 “钻石公主”号一路以来的经历，他表示，自己收到了来自船员和岸上朋友寄来的非常多的惊喜。
Five days before the end of the quarantine on Feb. 14, Abel posted a 42-minute video sharing his experiences with the Princess Diamond, saying he had received many surprises from the crew and friends ashore.
但是，亚伯还是在当天的视频中表达了焦虑的心情。
Abel, however, expressed his anxiety in a video of the day.
他向英国维珍航空公司老板理查德·布兰森（Richard Branson）喊话求助，他希望布兰森能派一架飞机来接走困在邮轮上的所有英国乘客，让他们在英国继续接受隔离。
He called for help from Richard Branson, the owner of Virgin British Airways, who wanted Mr Branson to send a plane to pick up all the British passengers stranded on the cruise ship and keep them isolated in the UK.
亚伯还批评了英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊，称对他不信任。
Abel also criticized British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, saying he did not trust him.
“我是认真的。
"I mean it.
”亚伯情绪激动道，“我们现在不知道该怎么办，希望您（布兰森）不要让我们失望。
"We don't know what to do now," Abel said excitedly. "I hope you don't let us down.
”“我们受够了，真的受够了！”亚伯情绪的波动被大家看在眼里，网友们试图安慰他：克里斯蒂娜·安（Christina Ann）留言说：“情人节快乐！我已经追踪你的故事大约一个星期了，你们两个真是太神奇了！……希望您早日回家与家人和小狗相聚。
"We've had enough, and we've had enough of it!" netizens tried to comfort Abel by saying, "Happy Valentine's Day! I've been following your story for about a week.
”金·米勒·凯利（Kim Miller Kelly）则用经典的英国食物“拉仇恨”：“给你看亚伯！这是三个星期前我吃的炸鱼薯条配豌豆泥。
Kim Miller Kelly used the classic British food to "pull hatred": "Look at Abel! This is the fish and chips I had three weeks ago with pea mud.
”这条评论得到了亚伯的回复：“你这个混蛋。
"This comment was answered by Abel:" You son of a bitch.
”亚伯和莎莉在随后的一则视频中设想着万一两人中有人被检测出新冠病毒阳性，亚伯哽咽着说，最害怕与莎莉分开，如果其中一个人会得病，他希望是自己。
In a subsequent video, Abel and Sally imagined that if one of the men was tested positive for the new crown virus, Abel choked and said that he was most afraid of being separated from Sally, and that if one of them got sick, he wanted to be himself.
2月15日，亚伯和莎莉接受了病毒检测，“这对我来说不是一个很好的体验，他们用棉签蘸了我喉咙里面，我都快吐了！估计结果出来需要2到3天。
On February 15, Abel and Sally were tested for the virus. "It wasn't a good experience for me. They dipped a cotton swab into my throat and I almost vomited.
”2月16日晚上9点，亚伯发布了一系列最新消息：“美国乘客现在下船了，他们可以坐飞机回家，回家终归会舒服一些。
At 9 p.m. on February 16, Abel released a series of updates: "American passengers are now out of the boat. They can go home by plane and come home more comfortable.
36个小时以后，加拿大人也要回家了。
Thirty-six hours later, Canadians are going home, too.
中国香港也正在组织公民撤离。
Hong Kong, China, is also organizing citizen evacuations.
意大利政府宣布要把他们国家的人带回家。
The Italian government has announced it will take its people home.
韩国人正在组织撤侨。
The Koreans are organizing the evacuation.
”2月17日，亚伯忍不住了，他再次质问约翰逊，“是不是英国政府根本不在乎船上的英国乘客”，他感觉被遗弃了。
On February 17, Abel couldn't help asking Johnson again, "Does the British government care about the British passengers on board?" He felt abandoned.
第二天，亚伯又发了一则视频道歉称，自己之前情绪处于极度崩溃的状态，因而说了一些对约翰逊不礼貌的话。
The next day, Abel sent out another video apologizing for having been in a state of extreme emotional breakdown and making some rude remarks about Johnson.
最后亚伯表示，将代表英国人，坚守住自己（完成隔离）的责任。
At last Abel said he would stand for the British and hold fast to their responsibilities.
几个小时后，亚伯得到消息，英国政府也决定派飞机来接回邮轮上的英国乘客。
A few hours later, Abel received word that the British government had also decided to send a plane to pick up British passengers on board.
但是，亚伯和莎莉却无法登上那架等待已久的飞机。
But Abel and Sally were unable to board the long-awaited plane.
2月19日，“钻石公主”号第一批乘客结束了隔离、开始下船的时候，亚伯在经过一晚上的悲喜与等待后，最终在一名说英语的医生口中确认了自己和莎莉确诊感染新冠病毒一事。
On February 19, when the first passengers of the Princess Diamond got off the ship, Abel, after a night of sadness and waiting, finally confirmed with an English-speaking doctor that she and Sally had been diagnosed with the new crown virus.
亚伯的儿子斯蒂芬表示，希望不要将父母分开，“我父亲患有早发性痴呆，他醒来后可能会有点困惑，所以我妈妈需要陪在他身边。
Stephen, Abel's son, said he wanted to keep his parents separate. "My father has early dementia and he may wake up confused, so my mother needs to be with him.
”20日下午，斯蒂芬发布了最新一则视频：你可以在最开始十来天的视频中看到我爸妈是什么样的人，他们很棒，人人都爱他们，但是越到后面，他已经（情绪受影响）不是他自己了。
Stephen released his latest video on the afternoon of Tuesday: "You can see my parents in the first dozen videos. They're great and everyone loves them, but the farther back he goes, he's not himself.
“他们目前的状态都不好，特别是我爸爸，他已经24个小时没有进食了，上一次我跟他聊天的时候，我说听到他在卫生间呕吐的声音，但其实他不会吐，因为他的肚子里已经没东西了。
"They're in poor shape, especially my dad, who hasn't eaten for 24 hours, and the last time I talked to him, I said I heard him vomiting in the bathroom, but he can't vomit because he has nothing left in his stomach.
”亚伯在“脸书”主页上对自己的描述有很多，其中一项是“自然摄影师”。
Abel described himself on the Facebook page in many ways, including as a "natural photographer."
2月8日，亚伯发布了一张在邮轮上拍摄的日落时的天空，虽然云层密布，但金色的阳光仍然从空隙中射出。
On February 8, Abel released a sunset photo of the sky on a cruise ship. Despite the clouds, the golden sun still shone through the void.
亚伯在照片上写下“光总会胜利”，并配文说：“别害怕，只要时间对，我们总会迎来新的黎明。
Abel wrote in the picture, "The Light always wins," with the words: "Don't be afraid, as long as time is right, we always have a new dawn.
”2月8日，亚伯在“钻石公主”号上拍下的照片戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
On February 8, a photograph taken by Abel on the Diamond Princess marked Abel here into PPA, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, PhD, for a new type of coronavirus infection.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日本邮轮上的“网红爷爷”确诊了。
The "grandpa" on the Japanese cruise ship has been diagnosed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "日本邮轮上的“网红爷爷”确诊了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "截至20日晚，“钻石公主”号邮轮上的3711名乘客和船员中，已累计确诊634人，其中两名80多岁的患者不治身亡。
var msg _ desc = & quot; of the 3,711 passengers and crew on board the MV Princess Diamond yesterday evening, 634 have been diagnosed, two of them in their 80s.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
