“医院新楼修好，但刘院长不在了”。
The new hospital building has been repaired, but President Liu is not in.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 汤琪 发自武汉实习生 胡友美 孟津津 薛晓咚武昌医院西院区门诊部。
Pai news reporter Tangqi from Wuhan intern Hu Youmei Mengjin Xue Xiaodong Wuchang Hospital West Hospital out-patient department.
澎湃新闻记者 汤琪 图从武汉市武昌区和平大道通往武昌医院西院区门诊楼的小径，是一条“断头路”，若开车进去，只能调头原路返回。
Tang Qi-tu, a Peng Pai journalist from Wuchang District Wuchang District to Wuchang Hospital out-patient building, is a "broken head road," if driving into, can only turn the original way back.
这座医院和周围的几栋居民楼几乎紧挨着，它像一滴水，淹没在附近密集的老旧小区里。
The hospital and the surrounding residential buildings are next to each other. It is like a drop of water, submerged in an old, dense neighborhood nearby.
这滴“水”对它所处的武昌杨园地区来说，是“救命的水”。
This drop of "water" for its location in Wuchang Yangyuan area, is "life-saving water."
六年前，武昌医院被核定为三级医院，填补了附近地区公立三级医院的空白。
Six years ago, Wuchang Hospital was approved as a level III hospital, filling a gap in the nearby public level III hospital.
2013年调任武昌医院院长的刘智明，是该院近年来发展的推动者和见证人。
Liu Zhiming, who was transferred to the director of Wuchang Hospital in 2013, is a promoter and witness of its development in recent years.
武昌医院指挥部。
Wuchang Hospital Command.
澎湃新闻记者 汤琪 图去年12月以来，一场新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎（以下简称“新冠肺炎”）疫情从武汉发起，席卷全国。
A new case of coronavirus-infected pneumonia (hereinafter referred to as "new coronavirus") has swept the country from Wuhan since December last year.
疫情蔓延之时，平日里就几乎满负荷运转的武昌医院被改造为收治新冠肺炎患者的第二批定点医院。
When the outbreak spread, Wuchang Hospital, which normally operated at almost full capacity, was converted into the second batch of designated hospitals for patients with Newcomost pneumonia.
2020年2月18日10时54分，51岁的刘智明因感染新冠肺炎在武汉同济医院中法新城院区去世。
On 18 February 2020, at 1054 hours, 51-year-old Liu Zhiming died in the French-Xincheng district of Wuhan Tongji Hospital for contracting Newcastle Pneumonia.
这是疫情发生后，第一位因新冠肺炎牺牲的医院院长。
It was the first hospital director to die of pneumonia after the outbreak.
在武昌医院从普通综合性医院改造为定点医院期间，刘智明已经出现低烧症状。
During the transformation of Wuchang Hospital from a general hospital to a designated hospital, Liu Zhiming developed symptoms of low fever.
但重任当前，他一直坚持在一线指挥，直至改造任务完成。
But for now, he has been on the front line of command until the completion of the transformation task.
武昌医院纪委书记2月20日在接受包括澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn）在内媒体采访时坦言，武昌医院从“开战”以来就树立了一个目标，要以最低的代价打赢这场“战役”。
In an interview with the media on February 20, including Peng Pai News (www.thepaper.cn), the secretary of the disciplinary committee of Wuchang Hospital admitted that since the "war", Wuchang Hospital had set a goal of winning the "battle" at the lowest possible cost.
疫情以来，该院付出了大量的人力、物力，也作出了巨大的牺牲。
Since the outbreak, the hospital has paid a great deal of human and material resources, but also made great sacrifices.
这座原本院感专家评估仅可改造出300个左右床位的医院，最终实现504个床位用于收治患者，最多的时候收治床位达到527个。
The hospital, which had been assessed by hospital specialists as being capable of converting only about 300 beds, eventually allowed 504 beds to be used for the treatment of patients, with a maximum of 527 beds.
2月20日，院长刘智明的简介海报还挂在武昌医院外。
On 20 February, the poster of President Liu Zhiming was also hung outside Wuchang Hospital.
澎湃新闻记者 郑朝渊 图带病坚守的院长多位刘智明的家人和同事如今已经非常明确，早在1月23日武昌医院被改造为收治新冠肺炎患者的第二批定点医院前，这位院长的身体已经处于不适的状态。
The family and colleagues of Liu Zhiming, the inveterate president of the Peng Chao Yuan Hospital, are now very clear. The hospital was converted into the second batch of designated hospitals for treating patients with pneumonia on January 23.
与刘智明共事了三年的武昌医院副院长黄国付2月20日在接受澎湃新闻采访时透露，在1月21日之前，武昌医院已经接收到一批新冠肺炎的疑似患者，医院特地把重症监护室（ICU）的床位全部腾出来，作为收治的病区。
Wu Guofu, vice-president of Wuchang Hospital, who has been working with Liu for three years, told reporters in Pai Pai on Feb. 21 that the hospital had received a batch of new cases of pneumonia.
按照武昌医院纪委书记洪毅的说法，该医院收治疑似患者的时间或更早。
According to Hongyi, the disciplinary secretary of Wuchang Hospital, the hospital admitted suspected patients for a longer period of time.
他告诉澎湃新闻，那时还没有给这个病命名，ICU里隔离起来的疑似患者都是没有做核酸检测的。
He told the roar news that the disease had not yet been named and that suspected patients quarantined in the ICU were not tested for nucleic acids.
“他当时就是一级防护进去的。
"He was in first-degree protection.
”据洪毅介绍，作为神经外科专家，刘智明都要深入一线对每个收治在ICU的患者进行探视，并一一掌握他们的病情。
As a neurosurgeon, Liu Zhiming visits each patient admitted to the ICU on a first-line basis and keeps track of their condition, according to Hong.
但当时，由于整体防控意识薄弱，刘智明在面对这些疑似患者时，仅做了一级防护。
At the time, however, due to a weak sense of overall control, Liu Zhiming in the face of these suspected patients, only did a level 1 protection.
“可能是在那个时候被感染，因为没有做病原学追踪，我们也只能是猜测。
"It was probably an infection at the time, because there was no etiological follow-up, and we had to guess.
”洪毅说。
"said Hong Yi.
1月20日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山在接受央视采访时，首次对外宣布新冠肺炎是肯定的人传人。
In an interview with CCTV on January 20, Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of the National Fitness and Health Commission's High-Level Group of Experts, announced that the new crown pneumonia was a positive person-to-person.
第二天，武昌医院就接到指令，要求三天内把现有住院的499名其他疾病患者全部转出，确定该院为发热患者定点收治医院。
The next day, Wuchang Hospital was instructed to transfer all 499 patients with other diseases currently hospitalized within three days, confirming the hospital as a designated hospital for fever sufferers.
刘智明的妻子蔡利萍是武汉市第三医院光谷院区重症病区护士长，据她介绍，在1月20日前后，丈夫便开始轻微发热、全身没劲。
Liu's wife, Cai Liping, the head nurse in the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan's Third Hospital, said her husband had a mild feverish body around January 20.
只不过当时，她并未意识到，出现在丈夫身上的反应就是新冠肺炎的症状。
At the time, however, she did not realize that her husband's reaction was symptomatic of new crown pneumonia.
1月22日上午六七点左右，蔡利萍又接到刘智明打来的电话，说医院很忙，就不回家了，马上要上班。
January 22 around 6 or 7 a.m., Cai Liping received a telephone call from Liu Zhiming, said the hospital is very busy, so do not go home, soon to work.
她当时感觉刘智明的呼吸有点急促，告知他不要轻视这个问题。
She felt a little short of breath and told him not to belittle the issue.
同一天，洪毅还与刘智明一起在单位食堂吃饭。
The same day, Hong Yi and Liu Zhiming also eat in the unit canteen.
据洪毅回忆，当时刘智明曾说起自己“角膜有问题，眼部有干眼症”，洪毅还以为他在开玩笑，调侃说“你能吃、能喝、能跑，哪里都不像得病了”。
Liu said he had "a corneal problem and dry eyes," Hong recalled, joking that "you can eat, drink, run and nothing like get sick."
事实上，刘智明当天已测过两次体温，一次是36.8度，一次是37度。
In fact, Liu Zhiming had his temperature taken twice that day, once at 36.8 degrees and once at 37 degrees.
下午，他打电话告诉告诉妻子，自己走路气喘，疑似感染，已经在武昌医院接受治疗。
In the afternoon, he called his wife and told her that he had walked for breath and suspected infection and had been treated at Wuchang Hospital.
次日，确诊。
The next day, confirmed.
1月24日，他因病情加重，被转入武昌医院ICU。
On 24 January, he was transferred to the ICU of Wuchang Hospital because his condition had worsened.
武昌医院西院区外。
Wuchang Hospital outside the West Campus.
澎湃新闻记者 郑朝渊 图重任下的病区改造明知身体有恙，为何不“退”？黄国付认为，刘院长在一线的坚守，一部分原因来自于武昌医院从普通综合性医院改造为定点收治新冠肺炎患者医院时所面临的巨大压力。
The reform of the sick area under the heavy responsibility of journalist Cheng Chaoyuan knows why he is ill, why not "back off"? President Huang believes that President Liu's adherence on the front line is due in part to the tremendous pressure faced by Wuchang Hospital when it was converted from a general hospital to a designated hospital for patients with Newcomrown Pneumonia.
据湖北日报此前报道，武昌医院原名武昌铁路医院，曾隶属于原铁道部郑州铁路局管理，为广大铁路职工及家属提供医疗服务。
Hubei Daily had previously reported that Wuchang Hospital, formerly known as Wuchang Railway Hospital, was once under the management of Zhengzhou Railway Bureau of the Ministry of Railways to provide medical services to railway workers and their families.
2004年，该院交由原武汉市卫生局直属管理，更名为武汉市武昌医院，完成了从企业医院向行业医院的改制，面向社会提供医疗服务。
In 2004, the hospital was transferred to the former Wuhan Municipal Health Bureau, renamed Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, completed the transformation from an enterprise hospital to an industrial hospital and provided medical services to the society.
2014年6月，该院顺利通过原湖北省卫计委组织的专家现场评审，被核定为三级综合医院。
In June 2014, the hospital successfully passed the on-site expert evaluation organized by the former Hubei Provincial Health and Planning Commission and was approved as a level III general hospital.
2013年调任为武昌医院院长的刘智明，是该院近年来不断发展的推动者和见证人。
Liu Zhiming, who was transferred to director of Wuchang Hospital in 2013, is the promoter and witness of its continuous development in recent years.
上述报道称，武昌医院填补了武汉市武昌杨园地区公立三级医院的空白，该区域此前医疗资源比较匮乏。
According to the report, Wuchang Hospital has filled the void in the public level III hospital in Wuchang Yangyuan district of Wuhan, a region that had previously suffered from a shortage of medical resources.
武昌医院消化内科主任王珣在刘智明住院后去病房探望过。
Wu Chang Hospital digests the medical director Wang Zheng to visit Liu Zhiming in the hospital ward.
2月20日，她在接受包括澎湃新闻在内媒体采访时表示，武昌医院所在区域附近确实没有一个比较好的、大型的三甲医院，刘院长和该院党委书记都希望未来能把武昌医院打造成优秀的三甲医院，能更好服务于周围的老百姓。
In an interview with the media on 20 February, including the roaring news, she said that there was indeed no better, large triple-A hospital in the vicinity of Wuchang Hospital, and that Liu and its party secretary hoped to turn Wuchang Hospital into an excellent triple-A hospital in the future, which would better serve the people around her.
“刘院长为这件事操了很多心”。
"President Liu has been very concerned about this matter."
更让刘智明操心的是，新冠肺炎疫情不断蔓延，第二批定点医院改造任务落在了包括他在内的武昌医院1000余名职工肩上。
Liu Zhiming is more worried that the new crown pneumonia epidemic is spreading, the second batch of designated hospital renovation tasks fell on the shoulders of more than 1,000 workers, including him in Wuchang Hospital.
黄国付告诉澎湃新闻，1月21日下午4点，武昌医院接到改造指令，要求下午6点就正式启用发热门诊。
Huang told Pai News that at 4: 00 pm on January 21, Wuchang Hospital was ordered to officially open the fever clinic at 6 pm.
“我们下午4点半召开了职能部门的动员会，5点又召开了全院临床一级主任的动员会，会后立即启动改造工作。
"We held the mobilization meeting of the functional departments at 4.30 p.m. and the mobilization meeting of the clinical directors of the whole hospital at 5 p.m., and immediately started the transformation work after that.
”医院决定，把西院区过去的日常门诊楼改成发热门诊，1月22日和23日两天，还要进行隔离病房改造。
The hospital decided to convert the former day-to-day outpatient clinic in the western courtyard into a fever clinic and to upgrade the isolation ward on January 22 and 23.
这期间，刘智明一直在一线指挥。
Meanwhile, Liu Zhiming has been in the front-line command.
“在这之前，我们没有改造方面的经验，当时也不太清楚会进行什么样的改造。
"Before that, we didn't have experience with adaptation, and it wasn't clear what kind of transformation we were going to make."
”王珣说，武汉市金银潭医院很早就收治新冠肺炎患者，因为他们是专门的传染病医院，而武昌医院就是普通的综合性医院，要改造为收治呼吸道传染疾病的医院是很大的考验。
"The Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan City early admitted patients with Newcomial Pneumonia because they are specialized hospitals for infectious diseases, and Wuchang Hospital is a general hospital, said Wang.
据《中国新闻周刊》报道，1月21日下午5时，刘智明曾给武汉市第三人民医院前任院长、老同事金捷打电话告知了这一消息。
On January 21, at 5: 00 p.m., Liu Zhiming telephoned his veteran colleague and former dean of Wuhan Third People's Hospital, the China News Weekly reported.
对于这次改造，金捷有些不确定，因为时间太短了。
Kim is a bit unsure about the makeover because the time is too short.
当时，武昌医院还有499名其他疾病的住院患者需要转移至结对的医院，有些人还处于病重、病危状态。
At the time, there were 499 hospitalized patients in Wuchang Hospital who needed to be transferred to twinned hospitals, some of whom were seriously ill and critically ill.
上述报道称，转为定点医院之前，武昌医院的物资和设备紧缺，没有专门的员工通道，不具备处理传染病的条件。
According to the above-mentioned report, before turning into a designated hospital, Wuchang Hospital was short of materials and equipment, had no special staff access and was not equipped to deal with infectious diseases.
“超负荷”的运转改造成为传染病的定点医院，对院感再造的要求极高。
The operation of "overload" has been transformed into a designated hospital for infectious diseases, which requires a great deal of hospital reengineering.
“我们医院的院感是经过了几轮专家督导的。
"We had several rounds of specialist supervision of the hospital.
”黄国付对澎湃新闻介绍，一开始是武汉市的院感专家来指导，第二轮来的是国家卫健委支援的院感专家，第三轮来的是支援该院的空军军医医疗队的一批院感专家。
Huang told the roaring news that the first round was directed by hospital specialists in Wuhan, the second by hospital specialists supported by the State Health Commission, and the third by a team of hospital specialists from the Air Force Medical Corps supporting the hospital.
他透露，根据院感专家的意见，武昌医院可改造收治的床位应在300个左右，但基于患者的需求，基于当时接到的指令，最终完成了504个床位的收治，最多的时候（1月23日）达到527个床位。
He revealed that, according to the opinion of hospital specialists, Wuchang Hospital should be able to adapt to around 300 beds, but based on the needs of patients, based on the instructions received at that time, 504 beds were finally admitted, reaching a maximum of 527 beds (23 January).
其中，东院区的一栋准备在今年拆迁的旧楼里都安置了140个床位。
One of the East Side compounds 140 beds in an old building slated for demolition this year.
在病房改造的这几天，包括刘智明、黄国付、洪毅在内的院领导都在通宵达旦指挥工作。
During the renovation of the ward, including Liu Zhiming, Huang Guofu, Hongyi and other hospital leaders are directing the work throughout the night.
洪毅告诉澎湃新闻，武昌医院的医护人员、其他在职员工共1034人，其中有三分之二的医护人员投入到了这场“战役”中，基本上把该院的所有人员抽空了。
Hong told Pai news that two-thirds of the 1,034 medical staff and other staff at Wuchang Hospital had been engaged in the "campaign," essentially emptying the hospital of all staff.
“不仅仅涉及硬件改造和流程再造的压力，也涉及专技人员不足的压力，正因为是院长，要统筹安排，加上他平时身体好，可能没当回事。
"It's not just the pressures of hardware re-engineering and process re-engineering, but also the pressure of not having enough technocrats.
”再次忆起刘智明确诊住院前的工作片段，黄国付至今从情感上不愿相信斯人已去的事实。
"Remembering the episode of Liu Zhiming's diagnosis of pre-hospital work, Huang has so far been emotionally reluctant to believe that the Si person is gone.
洪毅坦言，武昌医院从“开战”以来，就树立了一个目标，要以最低的代价打赢这场“战役”。
Since the war, Wuchang Hospital has set a goal of winning the "battle" at the lowest possible cost.
新冠肺炎疫情以来，武昌医院付出了大量的人力、物力，也作出了巨大的牺牲。
Since the outbreak of Xinguan Pneumonia, Wuchang Hospital has paid a lot of human and material resources, but also made great sacrifices.
2月14日，刘智明从武昌医院转入同济医院中法新城院区后，开始接受插管治疗，最终于四天后宣告抢救无效离世。
On February 14, Liu Zhiming transferred from Wuchang Hospital to Tongji Hospital in the French New Town area, began receiving intubation treatment, and finally declared the rescue invalid four days later.
洪毅透露，目前，武昌医院共有26位医护人员被感染新冠肺炎，但相对于其他有的医院来说，感染率是较低的，没有出现明显的聚集性医护人员感染。
At present, 26 medical workers in Wuchang Hospital have been infected with new crown pneumonia, but the infection rate is relatively low compared to other hospitals.
目前，其余被感染的医护人员状态稳定，正在接受“一人一方案”的治疗。
At present, the rest of the infected health care workers are in stable condition, receiving "one person, one plan" treatment.
“我们会尽全力做好医护人员的防护装备供给、营养保障、轮休制度及工伤待遇。
"We will do our best to provide health care workers with protective equipment, nutritional security, rotation leave and employment injury benefits.
”黄国付说。
"said Huang.
武昌医院一栋新修的大楼已经在东院区落成封顶，这只是该院扩建的一期工程，未来还会有二期、三期，肉眼可见的发展蓝图原本令全院职工充满寄望。
A new building in Wuchang Hospital has been completed in the East Campus. This is only the first phase of the expansion of the hospital. There will be two or three phases in the future.
“我们医院的新楼修好了，但刘院长不在了。
"The new building of our hospital has been repaired, but Dean Liu is not in.
”一名武昌医院的护士在微信朋友圈留下了无尽的感慨。
"A nurse at Wuchang Hospital left a deep impression on her microscopic circle of friends.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读。
Dell Compute Plot Here into Dell Computers Computation of New-style Cases of Coronavirus Infection in the Country
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“医院新楼修好，但刘院长不在了”。
The new hospital building has been repaired, but President Liu is not in.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“医院新楼修好，但刘院长不在了”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "The new hospital building was repaired, but Dean Liu is not at his service.";
var msg_desc = "“我们医院的新楼修好了，但刘院长不在了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "The new building at our hospital was repaired, but dean Liu is not at home.
”一名武昌医院的护士在微信朋友圈留下了无尽的感慨。
"A nurse at Wuchang Hospital left a deep impression on her microscopic circle of friends.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
