70年一遇的蝗灾席卷东非，联合国为什么筹不到援助？。
Why is the United Nations unable to raise aid when a locust plague strikes East Africa only once in 70 years?
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 喻晓璇联合国粮农组织 图清晨，农妇们敲打着锅碗瓢盆，吹着口哨，摇晃着装满鹅卵石的塑料罐，她们口中念着祈祷文，身体随着“打击乐”的节奏不停摇摆……这看上去像某种原始宗教活动的场面，发生在今年1月肯尼亚东南部的马修卡尼。
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Picture shows women beating pots and pans, whistling and rocking plastic jugs full of pebbles, chanting prayers in their mouths and rocking their bodies to and fro with the rhythm of the percussion music.
农妇们确实在祈祷，但祈祷的内容，却是“让蝗虫闭上嘴巴”。
The peasant women were indeed praying, but the prayer was for the locusts to shut their mouths.
她们站在已经被玫瑰色“蝗虫云”覆盖的田野之中，用“打击乐”作为驱赶害虫的武器。
They stand in fields already covered with rose "locust clouds" and use "percussion" as a weapon to repel pests.
从去年12月起，数十年来最为严重的蝗灾席卷了整个东非地区。
Since December, the worst locust infestation in decades has swept across East Africa.
凶猛的“蝗虫大军”已在索马里和埃塞俄比亚摧毁了大量农田，随后又在肯尼亚各地肆虐，并越过边境抵达了乌干达。
A fierce "army of locusts" has destroyed vast tracts of farmland in Somalia and Ethiopia, then spread across Kenya and across the border to Uganda.
截至2月20日，蝗虫已经入境南苏丹。
As at 20 February, locusts had entered South Sudan.
联合国呼吁国际社会捐款7600万美元应对此次东非蝗灾，然而目前资金缺口仍超过70%。
The United Nations has appealed to the international community for $76 million to respond to the locust infestation in East Africa, but the funding gap is still over 70 per cent.
影响千万人温饱与生计的灾害防控，为何无法得到足够援助？蝗虫从哪里来？到哪里去？此次东非蝗灾的源头，可追溯到2018至2019年的阿拉伯半岛雨季。
Disaster prevention and control, which affects the livelihoods and sustenance of millions of people, cannot be adequately assisted. Where do locusts come from? Where? The source of locust infestation in East Africa dates back to the rainy season in the Arabian Peninsula from 2018 to 2019.
据英国广播公司（BBC）报道，前两年阿拉伯半岛的湿润气候为三代蝗虫创造了有利繁殖条件。
Moisture in the Arabian Peninsula has created favourable breeding conditions for three generations of locusts in the last two years, BBC reported.
到2019年初，“蝗虫大军”已经到达了也门、沙特和伊朗，在进一步繁殖后，又抵达了东非。
By early 2019, the "army of locusts" had reached Yemen, Saudi Arabia, and Iran and, after further breeding, East Africa.
到去年年底，蝗虫已经在厄立特里亚、吉布提和肯尼亚繁殖出更多后代。
By the end of last year, locusts had bred more offspring in Eritrea, Djibouti and Kenya.
然而，有专家指出，这只是灾难的先声。
However, some experts point out that this is only a harbinger of disaster.
由于气候变化导致天气状况异常，海面温度上升会让印度洋气旋频率提高，气旋带来的大雨则有利于蝗虫繁殖。
Due to abnormal weather conditions caused by climate change, rising sea surface temperatures increase the frequency of cyclones in the Indian Ocean, and heavy rains from cyclones facilitate locust reproduction.
据《华盛顿邮报》和澳大利亚广播公司（ABC）的报道，这一轮气候异常是由印度洋的一次类厄尔尼诺事件即“正印度洋偶极”（positive Indian Ocean Dipole）引起的，研究表明，原本十年一次的正印度洋偶极现象正变得越来越频繁，而且这一轮的强度尤其大。
According to The Washington Post and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), this round of climate anomalies was triggered by an El Nino-like event in the Indian Ocean, the "positive Indian Ocean Dipole," which shows that the once-in-a-decade "straight Indian Ocean dipole" is becoming more frequent and particularly intense.
值得注意的是，此次正印度洋偶极现象还引起了去年澳大利亚的高温。
It is worth noting that the positive Indian Ocean dipole phenomenon also caused a high temperature in Australia last year.
“困扰埃塞俄比亚和东非其他地区史无前例的蝗灾与气候变化之间存在着联系。
"There is a link between locust infestation, unprecedented in Ethiopia and elsewhere in East Africa, and climate change.
温暖的海洋意味着更多气旋能为蝗虫提供理想繁殖地。
A warm sea means more cyclones can provide an ideal breeding ground for locusts.
现在，蝗虫群的面积已经能和一座大城市相比，这种现象每天都在恶化。
The locust swarm is now large enough to be compared to a large city, and the phenomenon is worsening every day.
”联合国秘书长古特雷斯表示。
United Nations Secretary-General Carlos Guterres said.
据联合国粮农组织的报告，此次蝗虫入侵是肯尼亚70年来最严重的一次，也是埃塞俄比亚和索马里25年最大规模的蝗灾。
The invasion is Kenya's worst in 70 years and the largest locust infestation in 25 years in Ethiopia and Somalia, according to the FAO.
索马里已于2月2日宣布国家进入紧急状态。
Somalia declared a state of emergency on 2 February.
截至目前，“蝗虫大军”已经越过乌干达边境，抵达刚刚摆脱内战、仍面临饥荒问题的南苏丹。
So far, the "army of locusts" has crossed Uganda's border to South Sudan, just emerging from civil war and still facing famine.
南苏丹农业部20日称，蝗虫出没的消息已经在该国三个地区得到证实，这些蝗虫正在寻找适合繁殖的场所。
Locust infestation has been confirmed in three parts of the country as locusts search for suitable breeding grounds, the South Sudan Agriculture Ministry said Tuesday.
联合国粮农组织 图威胁2500万人的粮食安全姆文德（Mwende）是肯尼亚东部基图伊县卡拉廷地区的小农户。
Mwende, a food security threat to 25 million people, is a smallholder farmer in the Karatine district of Kituyi district in eastern Kenya.
在她三英亩（约合1.2公顷）的土地上，种着玉米、小米、豇豆等作物，她以此来维持生计并为孩子们支付学费。
On three acres (1.2 hectares), she grows crops such as corn, millet and cowpea to make ends meet and pay for her children's schooling.
在经历了三年的干旱后，卡拉廷自去年10月起迎来了持续4个月的大雨，姆文德期待一场丰收。
After three years of drought, Mr Mwende is expecting a bumper harvest after four months of torrential rain since October.
但她的希望却因一群“不速之客”而破灭——2月3日，一大批蝗虫入侵了她的土地。
But her hopes were dashed by a group of "uninvited guests" - a swarm of locusts invaded her land on February 3.
肯尼亚穆兰加县卡米鲁地区的奶农彼得·伊伦古（Peter Irungu）在1月的某一天醒来，也发现他的三英亩的牧场变成了玫红色。
Peter Irungu, a dairy farmer in Kamirou district, Mulanga district, Kenya, woke up one day in January to find that his three acres of pasture had turned reddish.
近距离观察时，他惊诧地意识到，一群可怕的沙漠蝗虫正在吞噬着绿色牧场上的幼苗——这些蝗虫将让他今年一无所获。
From close range, he realized with surprise that a horrendous swarm of desert locusts was gobbling up seedlings on green pastures - locusts that would make him nothing this year.
姆文德和彼得·伊伦古只是肯尼亚400万至900万农民（粗略估计）中的两名代表。
Mwende and Peter Irengu are just two of 4 million to 9 million (rough estimates) farmers in Kenya.
近年来的气候变化让肯尼亚的农业深受打击，蝗虫的到来更是毁灭性的。
Kenya's agriculture has been hit hard by climate change in recent years, and the arrival of locusts has been devastating.
“我们认识到，有害生物的入侵以及迅速扩散的潜力对国家的粮食安全和人民的生计构成了前所未有的威胁。
"We recognize that invasive pests and their potential for rapid spread pose an unprecedented threat to national food security and the livelihoods of people.
” 肯尼亚农业部长姆旺吉·基尤里（Mwangi Kiunjuri）表示。
"Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kenya's minister of agriculture, said.
蝗虫的食量惊人。
The locusts eat an amazing amount.
《经济学人》形象地指出，一片巴黎面积大小的蝗虫群一天之内吃掉的粮食相当于法国一半人口的消耗。
The Economist graphically points out that a colony the size of Paris eats as much food in a day as half the French population.
小米、高粱和玉米等农作物是蝗虫主要的食物，这也将让埃塞俄比亚、肯尼亚和索马里1200万饥饿人口的生活更加艰难。
Crops such as millet, sorghum and corn are the staple food of the locusts and will make life more difficult for the 12 million hungry people in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia.
联合国则警告称，东非地区2500万民众的粮食安全将受到影响。
The United Nations is warning that the food security of 25 million people in East Africa will be affected.
2019年联合国粮农组织发布的《作物前景与粮食形势》报告显示，包括肯尼亚、埃塞俄比亚、索马里、南苏丹在内的多个东非国家需要外部粮食援助。
According to the 2019 FAO report Crop Prospects and the Food Situation, several East African countries, including Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia and South Sudan, require external food aid.
2019年东非的谷物总产量将比2018年下降5.6％，肯尼亚和苏丹将出现最大幅度的减产，玉米和高粱的价格大幅上涨，已达到该地区的历史高位。
Total cereal production in East Africa in 2019 will decline by 5.6 per cent from 2018, with the largest cuts in Kenya and the Sudan, and prices of maize and sorghum, which have reached historic highs in the region.
肯尼亚和索马里的粮食安全形势出现最严重的恶化。
The most serious deterioration in the food security situation occurred in Kenya and Somalia.
据美国商业和消费者频道（CNBC）报道，穆迪公司在最近的一份报告中称，蝗灾将考验非洲之角国家现有的粮食储备，也会加剧这些国家的通胀压力。
A recent report by Moody's said the locust infestation would test existing food reserves in the Horn of Africa and exacerbate inflationary pressures in those countries, according to the US business and consumer channel (CNBC).
“主要农作物长期短缺引起的食品价格上涨，加剧了东非整个社会的潜在动荡。
"Rising food prices, caused by chronic shortages of key crops, exacerbate the potential for social unrest in East Africa as a whole.
” 穆迪副总裁兼高级信贷官开尔文·达林普表示。
Kelvin Darling, vice president and senior credit officer at Moody's, said.
不仅如此，蝗灾还可能影响地区安全局势。
Moreover, locust infestation could affect the security situation in the region.
据肯尼亚《每日国家报》（Daily Nation）报道，在肯尼亚的桑布鲁县，超过7万英亩（约合2.8万公顷）的植被和牧场已经被蝗虫破坏，牧民们争相寻找新的牧场，当地官员警告称这将引发部落间的冲突。
In Kenya's Samburu district, more than 70,000 acres (28,000 hectares) of vegetation and pasture have been damaged by locusts as pastoralists scramble to find new pastures, officials warn, sparking tribal clashes.
蝗灾防控——“第22条军规”蝗灾肆虐时，这些东非国家在做什么？据英国《新政治家》杂志报道，肯尼亚政府已经在努力向蝗灾地区运送农药以阻止蝗虫继续繁殖。
What are the East African countries doing when a locust plague strikes? The government is already trying to deliver pesticides to locust-infested areas to stop locusts from multiplying, New Statesman magazine reported.
但肯尼亚农业首席秘书哈马迪·博加（Hamadi Boga）称，由于当地公司“没有大量农药库存”，杀虫工作推进缓慢。
But Hamadi Boga, Kenya's chief agricultural secretary, said the drive to kill insects was slow because local companies "do not have large stocks of pesticides."
而对于仍未摆脱战争和饥荒的厄立特里亚、南苏丹等国，有组织的蝗灾防控更是奢侈。
And for countries like Eritrea and South Sudan, which are still struggling with war and famine, organized locust control is a luxury.
在一些蝗灾泛滥的国家，政府的行动比蝗虫要迟缓得多。
In some locust-infested countries, government action has been much slower than locust infestation.
《经济学人》分析称，发达国家的保险公司通常会敦促政府采取预防措施，因此蝗灾极少爆发。
Insurance companies in developed countries often urge governments to take precautions, so locust outbreaks are rare, the Economist said.
而在非洲，很少有公司为农场提供保险，政府不会受到压力。
In Africa, few companies provide insurance for farms, and governments are under no pressure.
一旦蝗灾来袭，受影响的国家往往缺乏防控的能力和专业知识。
When locust invasions strike, affected countries often lack the capacity and expertise to control them.
今年1月，联合国粮农组织已经宣布为埃塞俄比亚、索马里、肯尼亚、吉布提和厄立特里亚筹集7600万美元应对蝗灾。
In January, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations announced a $76 million locust response for Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Djibouti and Eritrea.
然而据彭博社报道，截至2月10日，联合国得到的募捐只有2000万美元——不到目标款项的30%，缺口远远未被堵住。
But as of February 10, the UN had received only $20m - less than 30 per cent of the target, according to Bloomberg.
可是灾害不等人。
But disasters do not wait for people.
据联合国粮农组织估计，当3月雨季来临，东非大部分地区新的植被长出后，速生蝗虫的数量可能增长500倍。
The FAO estimates that the number of fast-growing grasshoppers could increase 500-fold with the onset of the rainy season in March and the emergence of new vegetation in most parts of East Africa.
这也意味着，过了目前的防治窗口期，将会有更大规模的蝗灾爆发，会对今年的粮食生产造成毁灭性影响。
It also means that beyond the current window of control, there will be a larger locust outbreak, with devastating effects on food production this year.
“这是紧急援助的通病，因为一般来说，各国的援助每年的预算是固定的，是提前计划好的，遇到紧急情况能很快拨付的很少，”国际发展组织Diinsider联合创始人孔喆对澎湃新闻表示。
"This is a common problem with emergency assistance because, in general, countries' aid budgets are fixed and planned in advance each year, and very little is quickly disbursed in emergencies," David Kong, co-founder of Diinsider, an international development organization, told SciDev.com.
“这就像是‘第22条军规’。
"It's like 'Rule 22'.
”（编注：此处指互相矛盾的条件造成的困境。
(Note: This refers to a dilemma caused by conflicting conditions.
）联合国粮农组织高级蝗虫预报官员凯斯·克莱斯曼（Keith Cressman）也指出援助和预防是矛盾的，“捐助者往往只对紧急情况和重大问题提供援助资金。
Keith Cressman, a senior locust-forecasting officer at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, also points out that aid and prevention are contradictory, and that "donors tend to fund only emergencies and major problems."
”据《经济学人》报道，2003年至2005年发生在西北非的蝗灾对粮食生产造成25亿美元的损失，而控制住这场蝗灾花费了6亿美元。
According to The Economist, locust infestation in North-West Africa between 2003 and 2005 cost $2.5 billion in food production and $600 million to contain it.
专家表示，这笔捐助足以支持该地区170年的蝗灾预防工作，可是预防工作却无法吸引太多援助。
The expert indicated that the contribution was sufficient to support locust prevention efforts in the region over 170 years, but that prevention efforts did not attract much assistance.
“在预防性管理中反复出现的一个问题是，当长时间没有出现灾情，蝗灾的问题就被遗忘了，因此会造成周期性的爆发。
"A recurring problem in preventive management is that when a disaster does not occur for a long time, locust infestation is forgotten, resulting in periodic outbreaks.
”法国国家科学研究中心的蝗虫防治科学家西里尔·皮乌（Cyril Piou）在非营利智库媒体“对话”（The Conversation）撰文指出，每当发生大规模蝗虫入侵时，各国会投入大量人力和技术来对抗蝗灾，随后通常会建立起一个预防性管理系统。
Cyril Piou, a locust-control scientist at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, wrote in The Conversation, a non-profit think tank, that every time a large-scale locust invasion occurs, countries invest a lot of manpower and technology to fight locust infestation, and then usually establish a preventive management system.
然而，当蝗虫离开后，这些国家就会逐渐减少预防措施。
However, when the locusts leave, these countries gradually reduce preventive measures.
事实上，一年前联合国已经号召国际社会提供900万美元援助，帮助尼日尔及其他几个邻国控制蝗灾，然而收效很慢。
Indeed, a year ago the United Nations had appealed to the international community for $9 million to help Niger and several other neighbouring countries control locust infestation, but with slow success.
六个月后，这笔所需金额达到了1亿美元。
Six months later, that amount had reached $100 million.
原因很简单：蝗虫远比国际援助“跑得快”。
The reason is simple: locusts "run faster" than international aid.
“我们必须采取行动，避免全面灾难爆发。
"We must act to avoid a full-blown catastrophe.
”联合国粮农组织总干事、中国科学家屈冬玉与联合国人道主义事务副秘书长兼紧急救济协调员马克·洛克在《卫报》上呼吁道，“我们敦促国际社会能够抓住（灾害防治的）机遇期，迅速、慷慨地做出反应。
"We urge the international community to seize the window of opportunity and respond quickly and generously," said Qu Dongyu, director-general of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and China's Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Mark Locke, in the Guardian.
”本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
Xing Tam, editor of this issue, recommends reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
70年一遇的蝗灾席卷东非，联合国为什么筹不到援助？。
Why is the United Nations unable to raise aid when a locust plague strikes East Africa only once in 70 years?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "70年一遇的蝗灾席卷东非，联合国为什么筹不到援助？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Why didn't the United Nations find assistance when a plague of locusts struck East Africa every 70 years?;
var msg_desc = "“我们必须采取行动，避免全面灾难爆发。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "We must take action to avoid a full-blown disaster.
”";。
";;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '黄燕玲被传“零号病人”，导师发声',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 0 & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
