一场为女性发起的「战疫」。
An epidemic for women.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
梁钰说，疫情刚来时，她很害怕，每天想的都是自己，自己会不会被感染了？自己是不是不能出门了？当她发起了这场「姐妹战疫」，为一线女性医护送上了338317条安心裤、 202209条一次性内裤，当她真正为其他女性做了些事，提供了实在的帮助，才看到生命变得不同。
Leung Yu said, when the outbreak first came, she was very afraid, every day think of themselves, can not be infected with their own? When she launched the "Sisterhood Disease", 338317 comfort pants, 202,209 disposable underwear, when she really did something for other women, to see life become different.
文｜赖祐萱编辑｜槐杨被湮没的声音生理期来了，住在北京的女孩小熊决定上网买些卫生巾。
yeg locust yeh, editor of yekeg locust Yang, had decided to buy some sanitary napkins online when her voice began to subside.
常用的大牌子，平时24小时内就能送达，今天，商家告诉她没有库存了。
Commonly used big brands, usually within 24 hours of delivery, today, the merchant told her there was no stock.
那是2月7日，疫情还未好转。
It was February 7, and the epidemic was not improving.
小熊突然想到，北京的状况都这样糟糕了，疫区中心的湖北，尤其是已经封城到第三周的武汉，会是什么样？她打开微博，搜索「疫区」和「卫生巾」，想看有没有人讨论这个问题。
The bear suddenly thought that the situation in Beijing was so bad that what would happen in Hubei, the epicenter of the epidemic area, especially Wuhan, which had been closed to the third week? She opened the microblog and searched for "epidemic areas" and "sanitary towels" to see if anyone would discuss the issue.
她发现了梁钰。
She found Leung Yu.
那天晚上，24岁的上海女孩梁钰在微博询问，一线医护人员如何解决月经期问题？她们的卫生巾和安心裤（裤型卫生巾）还够吗？几天前，梁钰看到武汉医护人员脱防护服的视频，全程27个步骤，12次消毒双手，耗时长达30分钟。
In a Weibo interview that evening, 24-year-old Shanghai girl Liang Yu asked first-line medical staff how to solve menstrual problems? Are their sanitary towels and comfort pants (pants sanitary napkins) enough? A few days ago, Liang Yu watched a video of Wuhan medical staff taking off their protective clothing, 12 times disinfecting hands for 30 minutes.
出镜的医护人员是女性。
The doctors and nurses are women.
她因此想到，一旦遇上生理期，如此复杂的穿脱过程，女性医护者要如何处理卫生巾的更换问题？为了节省消耗防护服，女性们会不会选择不换卫生巾？ 医护人员演示脱防护服的过程图源荔枝视频梁钰打算捐一些卫生巾和安心裤。
She wondered how women doctors and nurses should handle changing sanitary towels once they meet the physiological period and such complicated wearing process. To save on the consumption of protective clothing, will women choose not to change sanitary towels?
要让它们最快速地抵达武汉，湖北省内的商家是最好的选择。
For them to reach Wuhan most quickly, businesses in Hubei province are the best choice.
淘宝上的店铺一家一家地搜，看到发货地是湖北，就去问，「有库存吗？我要买很多很多」。
Taobao stores on a one-by-one search, see the shipping site is Hubei, go to ask, "Do you have inventory? I want to buy a lot."
找到的第一家，是湖北当地的卫生巾品牌洁婷。
Found the first, is Hubei local sanitary napkin brand Jing.
他们知道了梁钰的想法，花了三倍工钱请工人回来加班，把库存都调了出来，还坚持不要梁钰的钱。
They know Liang Yu's idea, pay three times wages to invite the workers back to work overtime, stock all transferred out, but also insisted not to Liang Yu's money.
有了物资，梁钰通过朋友询问了一家武汉的医院，听说要捐安心裤，对方非常惊喜，「还有人捐这个吗？我们需要的，需要的。
With supplies, Liang Yu asked a Wuhan hospital through friends, heard to donate comfort pants, the other side was very surprised, "Is there anyone else to donate this? We need, need."
」两天后，这批卫生巾抵达了这家医院，梁钰又想，其他医院呢？于是在微博上，她发起了那句询问，当时，她的微博有27万粉丝，每条转评量大约在100多，而这一条转评超过了1600。
"Two days later, the sanitary napkin arrived at the hospital, Liang Yu thought," What about the other hospitals? "So on Weibo, she launched the inquiry, when her microblog had 270,000 fans, each rating more than 100, and this was rated more than 1,600.
突然，数不清的私信涌进来，多数来自一线医护女性：向领导申请过，好几天了也没有拿到卫生巾；8个小时不吃不喝不尿，不敢上厕所；护士长自己掏钱去买纸尿裤；拿到卫生巾还舍不得用，先给患者；没有生理用品，用保鲜膜扛一阵；只有纸尿裤能用，血和尿都混在一起……各地支援湖北的医疗队更艰难，匆忙赶来，根本没时间准备这些。
All of a sudden, countless personal letters poured in, mostly from front-line medical women: they applied to the leadership and didn't get sanitary towels for days; the head nurse paid for diapers; he was reluctant to use them; he held them for a while without physiology supplies; only diapers worked, blood and urine mixed together.
湖北潮湿，连日雨雪，一条内裤都晾不干。
Hubei moist, day after day rain and snow, a pair of underwear can not hang dry.
没有可换洗的衣物，经过隔离区的衣物又不能带出来，很多女性医护甚至选择不穿内衣裤，只能穿着带血的防护服走来走去。
With no laundry to change and no clothing to take out of the quarantine zone, many women choose not to wear underwear but to walk around in bloody suits.
梁钰根据这些私信又写了条微博，呼吁更多人关注一线女性医护，这条微博被转发了1.7万次。
Leung Yu based on these personal letters wrote a micro-blog, calling more attention to the front-line female medical care, this micro-blog was transmitted 17,000 times.
她收到了更多来自一线女性医护的私信，有的是求助，有的就是想和她谈谈心，还有人小心翼翼地问，能不能先给五人份的量，也不多要。
She received more personal letters from front-line female doctors and nurses, some asking for help, some wanting to talk to her, others being careful to ask if she would not ask for more than five.
梁钰感到心疼又心酸。
Liang Yu felt heartbroken and heartbroken.
也是这一天，2月7日，小熊找到梁钰，想和她一起做这项给医护女性送卫生巾的工作。
Also this day, Feb. 7, the bear found Liang Yu and wanted to join her in the task of delivering sanitary towels to medical women.
她们要做的事琐碎而重复：打电话。
What they have to do is trivial and repetitive: call.
打给医院，问需不需要安心裤；打给品牌，问有没有库存；打给物流，问有没有车队。
Call the hospital and ask if you need comfort pants; call the brand and ask if there is stock; call logistics and ask if there is a motorcade.
打电话给医院是第一步。
Calling the hospital is the first step.
循着网上求募捐的医院名单和卫健委公布的求助信息，她们从武汉20多家医院开始，又找到湖北省内其他城市的医院，一家一家打过去。
Starting from more than 20 hospitals in Wuhan, they found hospitals in other cities in Hubei Province, one after another.
被拒绝是常态，最常见的说法是「医院需要口罩和防护服，不需要生活物资」。
Refusal is the norm and the most common statement is that "hospitals need masks and protective clothing and do not need living materials."
她们逐渐发现规律：接电话的如果是男性，拒绝的概率更高。
They gradually discovered the rule that men were more likely to say no if they answered the phone.
他们不了解安心裤是什么，认为和纸尿裤没有太大区别，甚至有人反问，「安心裤男性是不是也可以用？」唯一对她们的捐赠迅速做出接收反应的男性，是孝感市指挥部的一名负责人，毕业于北京大学社工专业。
They do not know what comfort pants are, and think they are not very different from paper diapers. Some even ask, "Is it OK for men to use them?" The only man who responded quickly to their donation was a director of Xiaogan City Command, a graduate of Peking University's social work program.
后来，梁钰得知，她发起活动之前，洁婷曾向武汉两家大医院提出捐赠，都被拒绝，理由是，不需要。
Later, Liang Yu learned that before she launched her activities, Jing had made donations to two major hospitals in Wuhan, were rejected, on the grounds that it was not required.
小熊发现，女性的声音是被一点一点淹没的。
The bear found that the female voice was drowned out little by little.
需求就在那里，但是，一部分女性认为生理期是私密的，不好意思表达需求，另一部分表达了，但当她们求助的对象没有将这种需求传递给负责物资采购的部门，或者这个部门认为这些需求不那么要紧，这个本不强烈的声音就又被削弱了。
The demand is there, but some women feel that the physiological period is private, embarrassed to express their needs, and part of it is expressed, but when the object of their request does not convey this demand to the department responsible for the procurement of the material, or if the department considers the needs to be less important, the already weak voice is weakened.
疫情时期的医院需求，医疗物资一定排在首位，女性对生理用品的需求也在被抑制。
Hospital needs during the epidemic period, medical supplies must be at the top of the list, women's need for physiological supplies is being suppressed.
梁钰和小熊要做的，就是找到那些隐藏在背后的、女性的声音。
Leung Yu and the bear to do, is to find those hidden behind the voice of women.
她们改变了询问的话术。
They changed their interrogation techniques.
开始，她们这样问，「我们有一些安心裤想要捐赠，请问您那边有需要吗？」后来，她们问，「我们有很多安心裤，请问您那边有多少女性职工？您的地址是哪里？」不再给出选择，而是提示，令接电话的人意识到「原来我们这里还有女性员工，可以去问问她们的需求。
At first, they asked, "We have some comfort pants to donate. Do you need them?" Later, they asked, "We have a lot of comfort pants. How many female workers are there? What's your address?" Instead of giving a choice, the caller realized, "We still have female employees here who can ask for their needs.
」若是还是被拒绝，梁钰和小熊会最后再挣扎一下，「请问您身旁有女性工作人员吗？可不可以请她听电话？」通过这些电话中得来的数字，梁钰和小熊窥见，一线女性医护是个多么庞大的群体：武汉同济医院，女性医护人员超过5000人；武汉协和总院，约5700人；武汉金银潭医院，约1300人；武汉汉口医院，约600人；武汉同济医院中法新城院区，约1000人；孝感市，约1.66万人……她们联系过的医院里，女性医护人员占比60%-70%，一些妇产医院超过了80%。
"If they are still rejected, Liang Yu and Cubs will struggle one more time." Is there a female worker next to you? Can you talk to her? "Liang Yu and Bear peered at the numbers. Some 5,700 from Wuhan Concorde Hospital; 1,600 from Hankou Hospital in Wuhan.
截至2月7日，这些医院都没有获得过卫生巾等生理用品的捐赠。
As of 7 February, none of the hospitals had received donations of physiological items, such as sanitary towels.
2月8日，梁钰开始组建「姐妹战疫安心行动」的志愿者团队，为一线女性医护人员提供生理期帮助。
On February 8, Mr Leung started to form a volunteer team of Sisters' Disease Safe Action to provide physiological support to frontline female medical staff.
她想，是时候为这些姐妹们做点什么了。
It was time, she thought, to do something for the sisters.
「姐妹战疫安心行动」的志愿者团队运送物资中 图源受访者哭一哭，继续战斗募捐的想法，在发第一条呼吁微博时就有。
The idea of a team of Sisterhood Active Plague volunteers carrying supplies crying and continuing the fight to raise money was the first call to tweet.
有饭圈团队找到她，想和她一起募捐，但她很快了解到，作为个人，她没有公开募捐的资格；她又想，找几个要好的朋友一起出资，卫生巾这种东西，能花得了多少钱呢？但那些数字让她意识到，这不是靠她自己或几个朋友就能完成的事。
The rice ring team approached her and tried to raise money with her, but she soon learned that as a private individual she had no standing to raise money publicly; and she wondered how much money could be spent on things like sanitary towels with a few close friends, but the numbers taught her that this was not something she or a few friends could accomplish.
她想到了以团队名义筹款，按照规定，她首先要找到一家有资质的基金会。
She thought of raising money on behalf of a team and was required to find a qualified foundation as a rule.
通过志愿者中的一位北大毕业生，梁钰找到了北大校友创办的灵山基金会，他们愿意帮忙进行筹款立项。
Through a Peking University graduate among the volunteers, Liang Yu found the Lingshan Foundation, founded by alumni of Peking University. They are willing to help fund-raising projects.
预计筹款金额226万余元，用来购买10万份安心裤，10万余份一次性内裤，还包括10万物流费用和5万应急费用。
It is expected to raise more than $2.26 million to buy 100,000 slacks, more than 100,000 disposable underpants, 100,000 logistics costs and 50,000 contingency fees.
226万，不是小数字，但它能够覆盖的女性医护人员并不多。
The figure of 2.26 million is not a small number, but it does not cover many female health-care workers.
一个人6条安心裤，10万条安心裤，只能覆盖1.67万人。
A person 6 peace of mind pants, 100,000 comfort pants, can only cover 16.7 thousand people.
一个人20条一次性内裤，10万条只能供给5000人。
One man 20 disposable underwear, 100,000 pieces can only supply 5000 people.
226万金额能够购买的安心裤和一次性内裤，都不足支撑一个月。
The $2.26 million worth of comfort pants and disposable underwear won't last a month.
梁钰记得，当时团队里还有男性志愿者提醒她们，怎么只给人家三天的量？起码也要四天。
Leung Yu, the team also had male volunteers to remind them, how to give people only three days? At least four days.
她感到无能为力，为了覆盖更多的女性，只能按照最低的标准。
She felt powerless and, in order to reach more women, had to follow the minimum standards.
2月11日，《人物》采访梁钰那天，她们启动了募捐。
On February 11, the day People interviewed Liang Yu, they launched a fundraising campaign.
紧张，担忧，不安，每五分钟梁钰就打开一次募捐页面，看筹款金额的进度条。
Nervous, worried, uneasy, every five minutes Liang Yu open a fundraising page, to see the fund-raising amount of progress bar.
负责宣传的色阿也很焦虑。
Zea, who was responsible for the propaganda, was also anxious.
色阿正在深圳读大学，办了一家小公司专门做性教育。
Zea is studying in Shenzhen University, set up a small company specializing in sex education.
她一直关注女性生理的科普问题。
She has been paying attention to the popular science of female physiology.
曾经在一份调查资料上，她看到汶川地震紧急赈灾时，物资调配清单上几乎不存在卫生巾等生理用品。
Once in a survey data, she saw Wenchuan earthquake emergency relief, the material deployment list almost does not exist sanitary napkin and other physiological supplies.
肺炎疫情爆发后，她想，是不是这种忽视也会发生在抗疫之中？她在微博上搜索到了梁钰，并加入了她们。
After the outbreak of pneumonia, she wondered if this neglect could also occur in the fight against the epidemic? She found Liang Yu on Weibo and joined them.
募捐发起前，色阿和组里的伙伴花了一天半，写了一篇文章，打算在募捐的第二天发布。
The group spent a day and a half writing an article before the fund-raising was launched, to be published the next day.
她们改了又改，生怕写得不清楚，又怕这个普通人发起的募捐没什么声响，为了能让更多人看见，她还特意跟几个自媒体号打了招呼，请他们帮忙转发。
They changed and changed, fearing that they would not be able to write clearly, or that the fund-raising launched by the common man would be silent. In order to be seen by more people, she had specially accosted several self-media numbers and asked them to help them forward them.
色阿和梁钰的担心是多余的。
Soa and Liang Yu's worries are superfluous.
一觉醒来，募捐完成。
As soon as I wake up, the collection is complete.
13个小时，她们筹到了捐款2355051.96元。
In 13 hours, they raised $235,5051.96 in donations.
色阿那篇没能发出来的文章，修修剪剪，变成了一份进度公示。
The article that Ser'ana failed to send out was trimmed and made into a progress announcement.
那是2月12日，梁钰和色阿发现，她们不需要再给医院打电话了，很多医院主动向她们求助，还有河南、湖南的医院。
It was February 12. She found out that she didn't need to call the hospital any more and that many hospitals had turned to them for help, and hospitals in Henan and Hunan.
除了医护人员，女性警察也来询问卫生巾。
In addition to medical staff, female police officers also came to inquire sanitary towels.
信息求助组的志愿者，加人加到手机一度崩溃。
The info-help group of volunteers, plus people added to the cell phone, crashed for a while.
当天，她们的求助池里已经有了165家医院，仅这165家医院的女性医护需求量，就远远超过了第一批募捐金额所能筹集到的物资数量，她们只得暂时关闭医院求助对接通道。
On that day, there were 165 hospitals in their shelters, and the demand for women's health care in these 165 hospitals alone far exceeded the amount of money that could be raised in the first round of fund-raising, and they had to temporarily close hospitals for help and docking.
这是一种难以描述的复杂感觉。
This is a complex feeling that is difficult to describe.
凭着这么多天的坚持，她们挖掘出被遮蔽的、真实的女性声音，又感到无力。
With so many days of persistence, they excavate the covered, real female voice, and feel powerless.
如此庞杂的关注和求助声，意味着这不止是湖北的困境，也不止是医护人员的困境，全国身处抗疫一线的女性都可能陷入一场与生理期对抗的焦灼战。
Such a vast array of concerns and calls for help means that this is not only Hubei's plight, but also not just the plight of medical staff, women in the frontline of the epidemic across the country may be caught up in a battle with the physiological period.
梁钰的人生梦想是在50岁的时候，统筹一个妇女权益的NGO项目。
Liang Yu's life dream is 50 years old, co-ordinates a women's rights NGO project.
没有想到，在24岁这年，她就在行动上实现了。
I didn't think she'd make it happen by the age of 24.
猝不及防，她被推到一个位置上，「其实，这让我感到痛苦。
Unprepared, she was pushed into a position where, "Actually, it hurts me.
」梁钰告诉《人物》。
"Liang Yu told People.
忙和累是一定的，纷飞的信息和急切的需求催促着她们，还要面对一些不友好的声音。
Busy and tired is certain, the information that flies and urgent need urges them, still have to face some unfriendly voice.
比如，有媒体采访时问梁钰，「有没有因为『月经』这个敏感词受到什么阻碍？」对方也是一个女生。
For example, some media interviews asked Liang Yu, "Is there any obstruction to the sensitive word" menstruation "?" The other side is also a girl.
梁钰不明白，什么时候「月经」变成了敏感词，甚至女性自身都要因此感到羞耻呢？还有人质疑，为什么医护人员不自己去买卫生巾？为什么不能忍一忍？为什么不能在网上下单？小熊觉得很愤怒，「这完全是『何不食肉糜』的想法！」封城之后，武汉的普通市民想要走出小区都很难，更何况这些一线的医护，在接诊量剧增的情况下，她们几乎不眠不休，没有时间买卫生巾，同时，大量的店铺关门，物资匮乏，快递也难以流通。
Leung Yu did not understand when "menstruation" has become a sensitive word, even women themselves are ashamed of it? Others questioned why medical staff do not buy sanitary towels? Why can not bear it? Why can't you order them online?
她们只能忍受。
They can only bear it.
梁钰听到了来自一线女性医护的很多故事，也听到了很多让她愤怒的声音。
Liang Yu heard many stories from the front-line female medical care, but also heard a lot of angry voice.
有些能分享的，她发在微博上和大家讨论；有些不能说的，她留给自己消化。
Some she could share, she discussed with everyone on Weibo; some she couldn't say, she left to herself to digest.
那种愤怒，由来已久。
That anger goes back a long time.
梁钰从小就觉得自己是个「正常人」，无需考虑太多性别，女性应该可以和男性说一样的话，做一样的事。
Liang Yu felt like a "normal person" from an early age. Women should be able to say the same thing and do the same thing without considering too much sex.
「我就是大家怎么讲一个正常人，我就怎么生活，但长大了，我发现不能那么生活了。
"I'm what everyone says about a normal person, I live as I do, but when I grow up, I find I can't live that way.
就因为我是一个女性，我就不能像正常人那样生活，我意见很大。
Just because I'm a woman, I can't live like a normal person. I have a lot of opinions.
比如说，男性会觉得，小孩如果不跟自己姓，那就不是自己的小孩；可是我是女性，如果我也这么觉得，我就有问题。
For example, a man feels that a child is not his own child if he does not have his own family name; but I am a woman, and if I feel the same way, I have a problem.
每次当跟男人说着一样的话，做着一样的事的时候，就有人开始骂我。
Every time I say the same thing to a man and do the same thing, someone starts scolding me.
」一天晚上，她绷不住了，打电话给一家心理咨询热线，哭了一个小时。
"One night, feeling stressed out, she called a counseling hotline and cried for an hour.
「哭完之后，我想，算了，再继续战斗吧。
"After crying, I thought," Come on, let's go on fighting.
」武汉中心医院的女性医护接受「姐妹战疫」的捐赠图源受访者上路武汉女孩笛子有辆车，司机是她妈妈。
wuhan central hospital female medical personnel received "sisterhood epidemic" donation map source interviewee hit the road wuhan girl flute has a car, the driver is her mother.
笛子会开车，但没有驾照，加入武汉志愿者车队后，妈妈就跟着她一起送货。
The flute can drive, but no driver's license, join Wuhan volunteer team, mother will follow her to deliver goods.
别的家长恨不得把孩子锁在家里，只有她的妈妈，不仅不关她，还要带着她一起跑——从封城那天开始。
The other parents wanted to keep their children locked up in the house. Her mother was the only one who didn't care about her and ran with her - from the day the city was closed.
她们一起送过口罩酒精，也送过鸡鸭鱼肉和蔬菜，这一次，她们要送的是卫生巾。
Together, they gave alcohol for masks, chicken, duck, fish and vegetables, this time with sanitary towels.
笛子说，妈妈很酷，听说是去送卫生巾，很冷静地说，「对，早该有人送了。
The flute said, "Mom is very cool, I heard is to send sanitary towel, very calm said," Yes, someone should have given.
」整个募集、捐赠过程中，物流是最难的环节，「姐妹战疫」的小组成员都提到这一点。
"Logistics is the most difficult part of the entire collection and donation process, as mentioned by the Sisterhood Disease team members.
卫生巾无法进入医疗物资或紧缺物资的目录清单，也就不能进入物流的绿色通道，很难找到物流公司承接运送，只能靠志愿者的私家车。
Sanitary towels can not enter the list of medical supplies or materials, so they can not enter the green channel of logistics, it is difficult to find logistics companies to undertake delivery, can only rely on the private cars of volunteers.
有时候，一家医院她们要花一整天才能送到，甚至好几天都送不过去。
Sometimes it takes them a whole day to get to a hospital, or even days.
有些求助和捐赠来自湖北的其他城市，跨市的运送，找车就更难。
Some of the calls and donations came from other cities in Hubei province, making it harder to find cars across the city.
若是黄冈来拉货的司机，要从武汉的仓库调货，把卫生巾送回黄冈之后，司机就需要面对14天的隔离。
If the Huanggang to pull goods drivers, from Wuhan warehouse to transfer goods, sanitary towels back to Huanggang, the driver will have to face 14 days of isolation.
相当于跑一趟，人「没了」，司机师傅变成了极其珍贵、需要谨慎使用的消耗资源。
The equivalent of a trip, people "gone," the driver of the master has become extremely precious, the consumption of resources that need careful use.
求助的需求也在实时变化。
The need for help is also changing in real time.
对接组负责人告诉《人物》，经常一家医院昨天还需要5000片安心裤，今天再联系就不需要了，已经从别的渠道获得了物资。
The head of the docking group told People that often a hospital needed 5,000 pieces of comfort pants yesterday, but was not contacted today and had already received supplies from other sources.
对接捐赠物资的表格每天更新好几次，但还是经常赶不上变化，物流组总是要到最后一刻才知道今天该不该出发，又要往哪儿去，甚至车队到了医院，才知道已经不需要了。
The forms for docking donations were updated several times a day, but often failed to keep up with changes, and the logistics team did not know until the last minute whether or not to start today and where to go, or even when the convoy reached the hospital and realized that it was no longer needed.
封城期间，武汉的路况变幻莫测。
During the closure of the city, Wuhan road conditions unpredictable.
仓库大多在郊区，医院则在市区，从郊区到市区的通行证是个问题。
Warehouses are mostly in the suburbs, hospitals are in the city, and permits from the suburbs to the city are a problem.
很多路被封了，有时地图也没有提示，开到一处才发现路障横在中间。
Many of the roads were blocked, and sometimes the map did not indicate, until the roadblock was in the middle.
他们只能四处找小路。
They had to look around for paths.
甚至小路也是不确定的。
Even the path was uncertain.
今天这个路口不需要通行证，明天还需不需要？今天能出得了小区，明天还能出吗？这个通行证今天能用，明天还会好使吗？没有人知道答案。
Today this intersection does not need pass, tomorrow still need? Today can get out of the neighborhood, tomorrow can out? This pass can be used today, tomorrow will be good? No one knows the answer.
笛子说，上了路，一切都要看运气。
"said the flute." On your way, luck is on everything.
封城后，她和另外十几个年轻人组了个志愿者车队，送过菜、发卡、酒精、喷壶，还送过23吨砂糖橘、30吨香蕉。
After sealing the city, she and a dozen other young people organized a volunteer convoy, served food, cards, alcohol, spray cans, and delivered 23 tons of sugar oranges and 30 tons of bananas.
这是一群亚文化青年，DJ、Coser、摄影师、涂鸦青年、开电玩城的、做服装店的，还有机车发烧友。
This is a group of young subcultures, DJ, Coser, photographer, graffiti youth, video game city driver, clothes shop, and locomotive enthusiast.
这些天，他们也帮姐妹小团队送卫生巾。
These days, they also help the small group of sisters to deliver sanitary towels.
有天任务重，几个男孩着急，一边研究怎么往车里塞，一边惊叹，「你们女生怎么会需要这么多卫生巾？」笛子有点惊讶，他们居然对女性生理期的了解这么少。
One day when the task was heavy, some boys were wondering, as they studied how to cram into the car, "Why do you girls need so many sanitary towels?" The flute was a bit surprised that they knew so little about female physiology.
她解释了一通，男孩们恍然大悟，「哦，原来你们不是一个月只用一片啊！」那个瞬间令笛子印象很深。
When she explained it, it dawned on the boys, "Oh, you only use one piece a month!" That moment impressed the flute.
如果这些年轻的、愿意帮女性送卫生巾的男性尚且对女性生理期了解这么少，那些在医院接电话的中年男性，对女性生理期的了解又有多少呢？她突然觉得有点能够理解那些拒绝了。
If these young men, who were willing to give women sanitary towels, knew so little about a woman's reproductive life, how much did middle-aged men who answered the phone know about a woman's physiology?
两性之间，是需要有更多沟通的。
There is a need for more communication between the sexes.
一辆SUV里塞了25箱安心裤，两厢轿车里也塞下了15箱。
One SUV was packed with 25 boxes of comfort pants and 15 boxes in two cars.
箱子们呈现出一种诡异的扭曲姿态，不过，这不重要。
The boxes presented a bizarre twist, but it didn't matter.
2月17日，笛子和志愿者车友们为武汉17家医院送去了安心裤，2月19日，不到两个小时，他们又送了17家。
Feb. 17, flutes and volunteers sent comfort pants to 17 hospitals in Wuhan, February 19, less than two hours, they sent 17 more.
截至2月19日，卫生巾和安心裤送达了44家医院，仅仅完成了求助池中165家医院的26%。
As at 19 February, sanitary towels and comfort pants had reached 44 hospitals, with only 26 per cent of the 165 hospitals in the help pool completed.
笛子和她的伙伴还在飞快地运转，他们已经找到了新的方法，连两厢轿车都能塞进25箱安心裤了。
The flute and her companions were still moving at a breakneck speed, and they had found a way to pack 25 cases of comfort pants into a two-car car.
团队中每个人接受采访时，都会提到笛子。
Everyone on the team will mention the flute when they are interviewed.
她们都疑惑，笛子到底是什么做的？在武汉如此艰难的路况下，按时送完所有的货，不可思议。
They all wondered what the flute was made of and under such difficult road conditions in Wuhan, it was unthinkable to deliver all the goods on time.
笛子却没有觉得那么难，她说，自己送的都是武汉市区的医院，还算容易。
The flute did not feel so difficult, she said, they are sent to the Wuhan city hospital, but also relatively easy.
但接下来的日子会是怎样的呢？笛子也不知道。
But what will the next day be like? The flute does not know.
她习惯了武汉清晨那烟火腾腾的氛围，但封城之后，一切都变了。
She was used to the atmosphere of the fireworks in Wuhan early in the morning, but everything changed after the city was closed.
路上几乎没有人，唯一热闹的地方是药店和超市。
There were few people on the road, and the only crowded places were the drugstores and supermarkets.
她特别喜欢吃一家店的牛肉粉，有天送货时，她特意往那条街上绕了一下，店面大多关了，满目萧瑟，突然看到一家店冒出了一缕蒸腾而上的烟。
She particularly liked beef powder from one shop, and one day she made a point of going around the street to deliver goods. The store was mostly closed and her eyes were bleak. Suddenly she saw a wisp of steaming smoke rising from a store.
走近了才发现，不是她喜欢的那家牛肉粉店，但那瞬间她还是特别想哭。
When she came near, she found that it was not her favorite beef restaurant, but she wanted to cry all the time.
2月12日，笛子受到梁钰委托，跑出小区，在武汉四处给海南医疗队的姐妹搜罗安心裤。
Feb. 12, the flute was entrusted by Liang Yu, ran out of the district, four in Wuhan to Hainan medical team sister search peace of mind pants.
她专门戴了一条那不勒斯球队的围巾。
She wore a special Naples scarf.
她拥有好多条那不勒斯的围巾，只有这条写了加油歌，每次赢球后她会大声唱。
She had dozens of Naples scarves, the only one with a cheering song that she would sing loudly every time she won.
笛子觉得，这歌唱的就是她们，这群为女性战斗的女性，「时光荏苒，从不曾离开，就像每一个今天，守护这座城。
The flute felt that it was they who were singing, these women who were fighting for women, "Time goes by so slowly, never leaving, like every one of us today, guarding this city.
」笛子将安心裤、一次性内裤交给海南医疗队图源受访者姐妹的力量团队的宣传海报原本是粉色的，梁钰反对，她要用蓝色代表这次行动。
"The flute gives peace of mind pants, disposable underwear to Hainan medical team diagram source sister's strength team's propaganda poster originally is pink, Liang Yu disagrees, she wants to use blue to represent this action.
她要趁这个机会告诉所有人，女性的代表色也可以是蓝色。
She would like to take this opportunity to tell everyone that female representation can also be blue.
「《冰雪奇缘》的Elsa不就是蓝色的吗？那可是00后女孩们的偶像。
Isn't Elsa from Ice and Snow Wonderland blue? It's the idol of the girls after 00.
谁说蓝色不适合女生？没有任何颜色可以代表一个性别。
Who says blue is not suitable for girls? No color can stand for either sex.
」字体是圆体，梁钰依然反对，她希望海报设计上没有任何字是弯的，也不要粉色的、可爱的符号。
: "The font is round, Liang Yu is still opposed, she hoped that no word on the poster design is curved, also do not want pink, lovely symbols.
「心」上面那一点，她本来想弄把剑，想到还是要点题，才换成卫生巾。
"The heart" above that point, she would like to get a sword, thought or to ask questions, before changing into sanitary towel.
一切被呈现、被传达的，都要是女性的力量。
All that is presented and communicated is the power of a woman.
「姐妹战疫安心行动」海报。
Poster on "Operation Sisterhood Against SARS."
底图为「姐妹战疫」团队向新疆独山子援鄂医疗队捐赠卫生巾图源受访者成立组织后，话题标签，梁钰选择了#姐妹战疫安心行动#。
Photo shows "Sisterhood Disease" Team donating sanitary napkin map to medical team in Dushan, Xinjiang. After the interviewee set up the organization, topic label, Liang Yu chose # Sisterhood Disease Safe Action #
当时，小熊有些担忧，她提醒梁钰要谨慎，「一旦观点和立场被利用、被引导、被歪曲，我们所有的、想对女性同胞做的努力，都白费了。
At the time, the bear was worried. She warned Liang to be careful: "Once ideas and positions are exploited, guided and distorted, all our efforts to do for our female compatriots are in vain.
」她告诉梁钰，「有些反对的声音在，可以忽略掉。
"Some voices of opposition can be ignored," she told Mr Leung.
我们想做什么，你就直接去做，清楚地告诉大家你在做什么就好了。
If we want to do something, just go ahead and tell everyone what you're doing.
」她们都知道，能够走到现在这一步，太不容易。
"They both knew it would be hard to get to this point.
15天前，60多个分布各地的志愿者还是陌生人， 15天后，他们中的大多数依然不知道对方的姓名、身份和样貌，只知道他们做着同样一件事情，为这些一线女性找到她们本应该拥有的声音。
Fifteen days ago, more than 60 volunteers from all over the country were strangers. Fifteen days later, most of them still did not know each other's names, identities, and faces, only to know that they were doing the same thing, finding the voices that these frontline women were supposed to have.
现在收货的时候，医疗队的女孩们都愿意叫志愿者们一声「姐妹」。
Now when the goods are received, the girls in the medical team are willing to call the volunteers "sisters."
新疆独山子医疗队的女孩们听说安心裤来了，一路小跑，拿着红色的长条横幅下楼迎接。
Girls from the Dushan Medical Team in Xinjiang were greeted at a trot, carrying long red banners down the stairs.
安心裤数量不多，只有两箱，就那么摆在正中间，几个女孩开心着扯着横幅，上面写着，「奋战疫情，勇于担当」。
There were not many pairs of trousers, just two boxes, so placed in the middle, a few girls happily pulled the banner, it said, "Fight the epidemic, dare to take responsibility."
还有穿着防护服出来接收安心裤的医生，看见志愿者第一句话便说，「你们别怕，刚刚换的干净的防护服，还没有进隔离区」。
And the doctor who came out in protective clothing to receive the reassurance pants, saw the volunteer's first words and said, "Don't be afraid, the newly changed clean protective clothing has not yet entered the quarantine zone."
签完单子，收完货，说声「谢谢」，又赶去工作。
Sign the list, get the goods, say "thank you," and get back to work.
梁钰觉得，是这些女性的温度照映着她们，志愿者才能一点一点地坚持下去。
Liang Yu, it is the temperature of these women reflected them, volunteers can adhere to little by little.
「叫一声姐妹，就真心当做是姐妹了。
"Call a sister, and you really mean to be a sister.
」「姐妹」，是志愿者团队里大家互相的称呼。
"Sisters" is what people call each other on a volunteer team.
笛子喜欢这个词，她说自己体验到了一种从未有过的连结感，是人与人之间的、强烈的联系。
The flute liked the word, and she said she felt a connection she had never felt before, a strong connection between people.
色阿第一次私信梁钰，两个人都客客气气的，您来您去几句后，梁钰突然叫了一声，「姐妹！」从那一刻开始，色阿觉得不一样了。
When you came to visit you, Liang Yu suddenly let out a cry, "Sister!" From that moment on, Se'er felt different.
这是她第一次和别人用姐妹相称，她觉得充满了力量。
It was the first time she had ever been matched with a sister, and she felt full of strength.
后来，只要有新成员进群，色阿都会立刻喊，「姐妹！你可以帮忙做这件事吗？」对方也热情回应。
Later, whenever a new member enters the group, Thoreau immediately shouts, "Sister! Can you help?" The other person responds enthusiastically.
有次，色阿发现，有个叫了几天的「姐妹」居然是个男生。
Once, Sean found out that a "sister" who had been calling for a few days was a boy.
阿布是姐妹战疫团队的小组负责人里为数不多的男性，80后，算是「大哥」。
Abu is one of the few men on the Sisters' Plague team, and after 80 he is the "Big Brother."
隔离期间，他待在家里，无意中发现了这个活动。
While in isolation, he stayed at home and stumbled upon the activity.
最初只是想做点事，但加入进来后，他「确确实实被震撼了」。
At first he just wanted to do something, but when he joined in, he was "really shocked."
他管理物资组，和厂商对接，感觉「4天的工作量顶得了上班一个月的强度」，也因此他惊讶于这些年轻女孩怎么跟打了鸡血似的，每天连续工作十几个小时，只吃一顿饭，24小时内，他随时说话，随时有人在线。
He managed the supplies team and docked with the manufacturer, feeling "four days of work is worth a month's work," so he was surprised at how the young girls worked for more than a dozen hours a day, eating only one meal a day, and talking and being on-line for 24 hours.
他评价她们，「非常勇敢」，像一簇火在这些女性里烧起来，把他也点燃了。
"Very brave," he observed, burning among the women like a cluster of fire, and setting him on fire.
作为男性，变成「姐妹战疫」的一份子，阿布觉得，这也是一种来自男性的发声。
As a man, he became part of the Sisters' Battle Disease, which Abu felt was a male voice.
他愿意加入她们，关注她们，了解女性的需求，女性的力量。
He is willing to join them, to focus on them, to understand the needs of women, the power of women.
「并不说是什么女性崛起，我想，只要能让社会正常地、平等地对待她们，已经很不错了。
"It's not about the rise of women. I think it's nice to have society treat them as normal and equal.
」但是，最懂女性的，还是女性。
"But it was women who understood best.
「当我们作为姐妹出现，同为女性，才会发现原来有一些东西你不用说，我就能懂，我就愿意为你去做。
"When we appear as sisters, as women, we discover that there is something that you need not say, that I can understand, and that I am willing to do for you.
」小熊说。
"said the bear.
梁钰说，疫情刚来时，她很害怕，每天想的都是自己，自己会不会被感染了？自己是不是不能出门了？当她真正为其他女性做了些事，提供了实在的帮助，才看到生命变得不同。
Liang Yu said, when the outbreak first came, she was very afraid, every day think of themselves, will not be infected? Is she not able to go out? When she really did something for other women, to provide practical help, only to see life become different.
每一个行动在一线的女性都变得鲜活起来，真实而具体。
Every woman on the front line of action becomes alive, real and concrete.
梁钰不确定是忙碌让她忘记了那些担忧，还是这些女性消减了她对病毒的恐惧。
Leung Yu is not sure whether busy let her forget about those worries, or these women reduced her fear of the virus.
「总之，我感觉自己没有那么害怕了。
"Anyway, I felt less scared.
」截至2月20日，「姐妹战疫安心行动」向一线女性医护募捐及协调捐赠共计：安心裤338317条、一次性内裤202209条、卫生巾2880片、护手霜700支，覆盖79家（支）医院和医疗队、超6万人。
As at February 20, the Sisters in Spirit Campaign had collected and coordinated donations from frontline female health care workers: 33,8317 pairs of trousers, 202,209 disposable underwear, 2,880 sanitary napkins, 700 hand cream, covering 79 (sub) hospitals and medical teams and over 60,000 people.
物资的运送还在继续。
The delivery of supplies continues.
在梁钰她们的呼吁下，更多的团体、组织、品牌和个人加入了这次行动。
In Liang Yu their appeal, more groups, organizations, brands and individuals joined the operation.
中国妇女基金会筹集了4万包卫生巾运往武汉，恒安集团承诺每个月向湖北捐赠260万片卫生巾和20万条安心裤，直到疫情结束……梁钰说，她知道很多后期再出发援助的医疗队，会给女性医护们的行装里放进安心裤和卫生巾。
The China Women's Fund raised 40,000 bags of sanitary napkins for transport to Wuhan, and the Heng'an Group pledged to donate 2.6 million sanitary napkins and 200,000 comfort pants to Hubei every month until the end of the epidemic.
「姐妹战疫安心行动」在武汉市内的捐赠情况图源受访者2月19日，「姐妹战疫」志愿团队的公众号「神经食粮」发了篇文章，解释了一线女性医护面临的状况，谈论了经血，并问道，「同样是血，为什么会有高低贵贱之分？」「我们期待，这次全国共命运的疫情过后，占人口半数的女性所拥有的正常生理现象将不再被冠以 『特殊』的名号，月经也不再是一种身体羞耻。
"Sisters in the Battle Against the Sisters" Campaign Donations in Wuhan Feb. 19, 2007 The public name "Neurofood" of the Sisters' Disease Volunteer Group explained the situation of frontline female health care, talked about menstrual blood, and asked, "Why is there such a thing as blood?"
我们不必每天都将她挂在嘴边，但希望她不能被谈论、不能被提及的过去，真正成为过去。
We don't have to talk about her every day, but hope that the past, which she cannot talk about, cannot be mentioned, is truly a thing of the past.
」文章末尾，她们说。
"they said at the end of the article.
梁钰一直记得，2月11日，那是个好日子。
Liang Yu always remembered, February 11, it was a good day.
不仅是募捐链接终于上线，还有个女性医护主动来问她，有没有护手霜可以捐助？她觉得太棒了，女性终于可以不要这么矜持，觉得提出需求就是矫情、就会害羞，「没有关系的，女性想要什么，也大胆地说出来吧。
Not only did the fundraising link finally come online, but a female healthcare professional came forward and asked if she had any hand cream to donate? She thought it was great that a woman could finally stop being so reserved and feel shy about asking for what she wants.
」没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional focus on People.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一场为女性发起的「战疫」。
An epidemic for women.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一场为女性发起的「战疫」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "女性想要什么，也大胆地说出来吧。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and be bold about what a woman wants.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
