方舱的日与夜。
The day and night of the cabin.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
住进武昌方舱的第二天，付丹看到有人在垃圾站收拾，将在地上扔得乱七八糟的垃圾捡起来放到垃圾箱里。
The day after arriving at Wuchang Square, Fudan saw someone cleaning up at the dump, picking up the rubbish thrown on the ground and putting it in the bin.
她感到有些奇怪，清洁工怎么没有穿防护服呢。
She wondered why the dustmen were not wearing protective clothing.
一问，原来那人是住在同一个病区的病友，住在159号床。
One question, it turned out that the man was living in the same sick area, living in bed No. 159.
文｜谢梦遥采访｜谢梦遥 王雨娟编辑｜金匝摄影｜尹夕远分流那不是你的家。
+ yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + yeg + + + + + + + that was not your home.
甜蜜的家，或者曾经甜蜜的，破碎的家，或者尚未破碎的。
Sweet home, or once sweet, broken home, or not broken.
方舱医院是个临时搭建的医院，如果你真正理解方舱医院的概念，你会理解它所有比不上家的地方。
The Fang Cavern Hospital is a makeshift hospital, and if you really understand the concept of a cabin hospital, you'll understand all the places it can't be compared to home.
但在一开始，不是所有人都能知道这一点。
But in the beginning, not everyone knew about it.
「人还是比较恐慌的。
"People are more scared.
」这是张伟对武昌方舱的最初感受。
"This was Zhang Wei's first feeling for the Wuchang cabin.
她是半夜2点从家里被社区接出来的，一场紧急转移正在发生，仅仅3个小时前，社区才接到命令。
She was picked up from her home by the community at 2: 00 in the middle of the night, an emergency transfer was taking place, and the community had been ordered only three hours earlier.
她被告知要送去方舱医院，但具体去哪个，进行什么样的治疗，将隔离多久，「一切都不知道，都是未知的」。
She was told to take her to the cabin hospital, but where to go, what kind of treatment to take, and how long it would be isolated, "nothing is known, nothing is known."
她后来回忆，那个夜里下了一场特别大的雨，大巴在风雨交加的大街上等了3个小时，2月6日的5点20分，她终于入住武昌方舱的东区。
She later recalled that there had been a particularly heavy rain that night and that the bus had waited three hours in the stormy streets. At 5.20 on February 6, she finally moved into the eastern section of the Wuchang cabin.
那是个顶棚有几十米长的体育馆，作为第一波进入的病人，她放眼望去，全是一排排铺着白色床单的空床。
It was a gymnasium with a ceiling of dozens of metres, and as the first wave of patients entered, she looked at rows of empty beds with white sheets.
「哦，原来这里面会住这么多人。
"" Oh, there will be so many people here.
」她心说。
'she said to herself.
2月初，武汉抗疫策略转向，集中隔离取代居家隔离，重症感染者、轻症感染者与疑似感染者将分流至定点救治医院、方舱医院、临时征用的社区隔离点三处不同去向。
In early February, Wuhan anti-epidemic strategy to focus on isolation instead of home isolation, severe, light and suspected infections will be diverted to the designated treatment hospital, square cabin hospital, temporary community isolation point three different destinations.
首批三个方舱医院的修建在2月3日启动，武昌方舱所在的洪山体育馆正是选址之一。
Construction of the first three square-cabin hospitals began on February 3, and the Hongshan Stadium, where Wuchang's cabin is located, is one of the sites.
仅用了两天修建，首批方舱就投入了使用。
It took only two days to build, and the first cabins were put into use.
张伟是确诊者，但发烧已经是十几天前的事情了。
Zhang Wei is a confirmed person, but fever has been 10 days ago.
「我说我都已经好了，就不用去占用政府的资源和这个名额了。
"When I say I'm all right, I don't have to take up government resources and the quota.
」她说。
'she said.
但事实上，退烧并不能作为病毒在体内无残留的依据，高烧也不能作为重症患者的判断依据。
But in fact, the fever does not serve as a basis for the virus in vivo residue, high fever can not be used as a basis for severe patients.
发烧39度的付丹，同样在2月6日那个雨夜，被送去了武昌方舱。
Fever 39 degrees Fu Dan, also on February 6 that rainy night, was sent to Wuchang cabin.
严格来说，此时的她算不上官方定义的确诊。
Strictly speaking, she is not an officially defined diagnosis at this time.
她做过核酸检测，结果还未出来。
She had a nucleic acid test, but the results are still out.
在体育馆外搭起来用于预检分诊的帐篷，医生看她的CT片，表示「已经很明确了」，于是她也被收进方舱。
A tent set up outside the gymnasium for a pre-check-up visit. The doctor looked at her CT scanner and said, "It's clear," so she was taken into the cabin.
果然，当天下午核酸检验出来结果为阳性。
Sure enough, the nucleic acid test that afternoon showed positive results.
她已经连续高烧一周多了，直至5号晚上才被社区安排进酒店进行隔离。
She had been feverish for more than a week until she was quarantined by the community on the night of the 5th.
那个酒店开了三层，住着60多个病人，没见到医生，只有一两个护士。
The hotel, which opened three floors and housed more than 60 patients, did not see a doctor, only one or two nurses.
「酒店里面管理起来很复杂，楼层又多，互相之间传达一个信息都很难，人都叫不着。
"The hotel is very complex to manage and there are many floors. It is difficult to get a message from one to the other.
」付丹告诉《人物》，「有的人病重了，他还得给家人打电话，家人再想办法到了这个酒店门口，在酒店门口叫保安，保安再去找医生。
"Some people are seriously ill and they have to call their families," Fudan told People. "Family members try to get to the door of the hotel, call the security guard at the hotel door, then go to the doctor.
」酒店里的全部病人都送去方舱进行筛选。
All the patients in the hotel were sent to the cabin for screening.
方舱开放第一天，混乱和有序同时发生着。
The first day of the cabin opened, chaos and order occurred simultaneously.
病人按照床号顺序依次安排，床位渐渐满了。
The patients were arranged according to the number of beds, which gradually became full.
三餐有供应，药也发放下来。
Three meals were served, and medicines were distributed.
舱内没有志愿者，医护人员忙前忙后，穿着同样的防护服，分不清谁是医生，谁是护士。
There were no volunteers in the cabin, and the paramedics were too busy wearing the same protective clothing to distinguish between a doctor and a nurse.
但病人的抱怨也一直没有停歇过。
But the patient's complaints never stopped.
「主要是大家都很迷茫。
"Most of the time, we were confused.
每个人又希望医生能够对自己特别关注一些。
Everyone wants the doctor to pay special attention to himself.
」一个病人回忆。
"a patient recalls.
最大的问题是冷。
The biggest problem is cold.
为了防止交叉感染，体育馆的中央空调关闭了。
The central air conditioning in the gymnasium was turned off to prevent cross-infection.
当天武汉最低温度只有5度，再加上下了雨，馆内极为湿冷。
Wuhan on that day the lowest temperature only 5 degrees, plus the rain, the museum is extremely wet and cold.
虽然每张病床上都有电热毯，但其中一些插座没有电。
Although there is an electric blanket on each bed, some of the sockets are without electricity.
一个护士记得，在规模稍小的西区情况更甚，「有一半的电热毯是没电的」。
One nurse remembers that the situation was even worse in the smaller West Side, where "half of the electric blankets were dead."
作为一个临时居所，方舱不是家。
As a temporary residence, the cabin is not home.
启动之初，很多设施还有待完善。
At the beginning, many facilities needed to be improved.
洗漱台是十几个立柱状的面盆。
The washstand is a dozen vertical cylindrical basins.
装了热水器，但用的人一多，就跳闸了，后来的人只能用冷水。
Installed the water heater, but with a lot of people, on the trip, people can only use cold water.
为了防止病毒在粪口传播，所有大小便需进行无公害处理，体育馆内的厕所关闭了。
To prevent the spread of the virus through the faeces, all defecation should be treated cleanly and the toilets in the gymnasium should be closed.
移动厕所设在馆外，没有来得及装灯，黑漆漆的。
The mobile toilet is located outside the museum and was painted black without time to install lights.
一些厕所的水管尚未安好，无法冲水。
Some latrines have not been installed and cannot be flushed.
出门走到厕所的路上没有遮挡，有人淋湿了，回来又是发了一通脾气。
There was no shelter on the way out to the toilet, someone got wet and came back in a temper.
方舱承诺每天清洁两次，但没有人进来做卫生。
The cabin promised to clean twice a day, but no one came in to do the cleaning.
摆着四台开水炉的大厅里，地上全是积水，老人慢慢地走，以避免滑倒。
In the hall of the four water-heaters, the ground was covered with water, and the old man walked slowly to avoid slipping.
送来的饭菜经常是凉的。
The food is often cold.
方舱里也没法洗澡。
There's no bathing in the cabin.
什么样抱怨的声音都有。
There are all kinds of complaints.
一个年轻女孩突然哭起来，原来，她想到了因病去世的母亲。
A young girl suddenly began to cry. She thought of her mother who had died of illness.
周围的病友纷纷予以她安慰，说着打气的话。
She was comforted by her sick companions, who spoke words of encouragement.
那是个暖心时刻，但整体气氛依然很压抑，人们不得不联想到自己。
It was a warm moment, but the overall atmosphere was still depressing and people had to think of themselves.
「确实在这里面很多人，家里其他人也生病了。
"There are a lot of people here and the rest of the family are sick," he said.
」付丹说。
"said Fu Dan.
张兵一家四口就被分隔在三个不同的地方。
The four members of the Zhang Bing family were separated in three different places.
48岁的他在方舱，父母在医院，症状已经消失的太太则在社区指定的酒店里隔离。
The 48-year-old is in the cabin, his parents are in the hospital, and his wife, whose symptoms have disappeared, is quarantined in a community-designated hotel.
他发烧到39.4度，但他更挂念的是家人。
He had a fever of 39.4 degrees, but he was more worried about his family.
他有两三个同学的父母去世，症状和新冠肺炎吻合，但没有确诊。
Two or three of his classmates' parents died and the symptoms matched those of Newcastle pneumonia, but no diagnosis was made.
第一天结束的时候，付丹发现睡眠是个新的问题。
At the end of the first day, Fudan found that sleep was a new problem.
有人打鼾倒是其次，方舱要维持运作，照明灯24小时开着。
Snoring was followed by the maintenance of the cabin, with lights on 24 hours a day.
靠着一些安定片，她才终于睡着了。
She finally fell asleep thanks to some tranquilizers.
武昌方舱医院内部图源央视新闻筹备将时间倒退2天，湖北省肿瘤医院放疗科护士唐斟，是在2月4日下午3点接到命令的。
Wuchang Fang Hospital internal chart source CCTV news preparations will be two days back, Hubei Province Cancer Hospital radiotherapy nurses Tang Pu, February 4 received orders at 3 p.m.
早前医院征询支援抗疫一线的意向，她报了名。
She was named after the hospital had sought support for the first line of battle against the disease.
她是两岁孩子的母亲，领导因此反复询问她是否考虑清楚并得到家人支持；但同时，作为肿瘤医院里兼任的院感科护士（院感科工作包括防止医源性感染的培训、医疗废弃物的管理、消毒管理等），她又是前线亟需的人。
She is the mother of two-year-olds, and her leadership has repeatedly asked her if she thinks well and is supported by her family; but at the same time, she is the hospital's sensorial nurse in the oncology hospital (which includes training in the prevention of iatrogenic infections, management of medical waste, disinfection management, etc.) and is in urgent need on the front line.
赶去医院做了核酸检测和CT确定身体健康，当天晚8点，她和同事进入武昌方舱。
Rush to the hospital for a nucleic acid test and CT to determine good health, the same day at 8 p.m., she and her colleagues into Wuchang cabin.
时间紧急，作为肿瘤医院第二批派出的医护人员，她反而比第一批定下要去雷神山那40人，早两天到岗。
The emergency, as a second batch of oncology hospital medical personnel, she was more than the first set to go to Luishen Mountain that 40 people, two days early.
在4号这一天里，许多事情同时发生着。
On the fourth day, many things happened at once.
在湖南长沙，湘雅医院由10辆车组成的「方舱医院」车队一早启程，如果说体育馆起到的是「留观室」作用，这些可独立实现野外检查与手术的车辆才是方舱的关键构成。
In Changsha, Hunan, the 10-vehicle fleet of "Fang Ngau Hospital" left early this morning. If the stadium serves as a "viewing room," these vehicles, which can be independently inspected and operated on in the field, are the key components of the cabin.
在广西柳州，市工人医院的呼吸科护士长梁艳冰早上7点就去单位集合，她和5名同事要去南宁搭下午4点的飞机。
Liuzhou, Guangxi City Workers Hospital, the respiratory head nurse Liang Yanbing gathered at 7: 00 am, she and five colleagues to take a 4: 00 p.m. plane to Nanning.
她们所在的这支广西队有100名护士，抽调自20余家不同医院。
Their team, which includes 100 nurses, is drawn from more than 20 different hospitals.
这天晚些时候，包括湘雅医院在内的以专家为主的三支国家救援队，来自广西、河北四地的总计400人的护理团队，陆续抵达武汉。
Later in the day, three national rescue teams, including Xiangya Hospital and a total of 400 nurses from Guangxi and Hebei, arrived in Wuhan.
他们将与肿瘤医院等五家本地医院携手，将武昌方舱作为示范点共同运营。
They will work with five local hospitals, including the Oncology Hospital, to operate the Wuchang Fang module as a demonstration site.
此时方舱还在建设。
The cabin was still under construction.
「我印象最深的是，什么都没有，只有空床。
"What impressed me most was that there was nothing but an empty bed.
搞不清楚哪里是进口，哪里是出口，哪里是我们换衣服的地方。
We don't know where to import, where to export, where to change clothes.
」梁艳冰说。
"said Liang.
各单位做了分工，湖北省人民医院统筹全局，肿瘤医院分配的任务是负责院感与物资分配。
Units have done division of labor, Hubei Province People's Hospital overall planning, the task assigned by the oncology hospital is responsible for hospital and material distribution.
「说实话，刚开始来的时候，看到那个场景，你真的会有那种心态，感觉工作开展不下去了。
"To tell you the truth, at the beginning of the scene, you really will have that kind of mentality, feel the work can not go on.
」唐斟有一种无助的感觉。
Carving Tang had a feeling of helplessness.
「什么东西都没有头绪。
"There's no clue about anything.
」考虑到医生仍然不足，五家本地医院主动提出，在各自原有的两医四护的团队上，每家再加派18名医生支援。
Considering the continuing shortage of doctors, five local hospitals offered to provide 18 additional doctors to each of their existing teams.
武昌方舱将设800个床位，两个体育馆分别做东区和西区。
There will be 800 beds in Wuchang Square and two gymnasiums for the Eastern and Western Regions respectively.
但肿瘤医院的团队看过场地后提出，床位太密集，相邻两张床的人站到间隔里近乎脸贴脸，不符合院感要求。
But after looking at the site, the team at the oncology hospital suggested that the beds were too dense and that the two beds next to each other stood so close to their faces that they did not meet the hospital's requirements.
经讨论决定，方舱将开设地下一层作为第三个区域。
After discussion, it was decided that the capsule would open a third basement level.
铺好的床被撤走了一小半。
Less than half of the bunk had been removed.
另一个调整是，把全场通铺改为由20至50张床位为一个单元的隔断间。
Another adjustment is to change the entire floor to a 20-50 bed cubicle.
「因为你要设身处地为患者去想啊。
"Because you have to put yourself in the patient's shoes.
」肿瘤医院副队长王俊向《人物》解释，「男男女女，老老少少，至少要稍微隔一下吧。
"Men and women, old and young, at least once in a while," explained Wang Junjun, deputy chief of the Oncology Hospital.
」病床是早先由志愿者铺的，颜色花花绿绿。
"The beds, which were previously staffed by volunteers, are colourful.
志愿者退场后，为了统一色调，医务人员将床铺重新收拾，更换为白色的床单被套。
After the volunteers left, to unify the hues, medical staff rearranged the beds and replaced them with white sheets.
改造连夜进行。
The makeover took place overnight.
5日凌晨4点，6个可满足医疗需求的专用配电柜到位。
At 4 a.m. on the 5th, six special distribution cabinets were in place to meet medical needs.
配电柜体在鄂州，配件是由武汉送过去，组装完成后，再送回来的。
Distribution cabinets in Huizhou, parts are sent by Wuhan, assembly is completed, and then sent back.
市内建材市场停业，找配件也经历了一番波折。
City building materials market closed, looking for accessories has experienced some ups and downs.
看不见的地方，工作也在紧锣密鼓地开展着。
Invisible places, work is also in full swing.
对于一个两天建成的传染病医院来说，一切都是新的，入院、值班、危重患者转院、出院、院感等制度，都需要不同工作组协调制定，并形成文字。
For a two-day hospital for infectious diseases, everything is new, and the system of admission, duty, transfer of critically ill patients, discharge from hospital, hospital feeling, etc., needs to be worked out in a coordinated and documented manner by different working groups.
在方舱的第一个工作日结束，唐斟在宾馆躺下，看了下表，凌晨4点10分。
At the end of the first working day in the cabin, Tang Lou lay down at the hotel and read the table below.
「妈呀，我可不可以回（家）去啊。
"Mom, can I go home?
」她想。
"she thought.
睡不了太久，8点要到岗。
I can't sleep long. I'm on duty at 8.
运营到了2月5号晚间，武昌方舱已经初具雏形了。
By the evening of February 5, Wuchang's cabin had begun to take shape.
东区为例，划为两个区域，省肿瘤医院和省妇幼保健院各负责100余张床位。
The Eastern Region, for example, is divided into two regions, with the Provincial Oncology Hospital and the Provincial Maternal and Child Health Centre each responsible for more than 100 beds.
所有医护人员由体育馆南门进出，北门用于接送病人和运走垃圾。
All medical staff are transported through the south gate of the gymnasium, while the north gate is used for transporting patients and garbage.
馆内设清洁区、缓冲区、半污染区、病人所在的污染区，各区之间有门隔开。
The building has clean areas, buffer zones, semi-polluted areas, contaminated areas where patients are located, with doors separated from each other.
医护人员除了在病区工作，也有一部分人需在外围值守。
In addition to working in the sick area, some of the medical staff are stationed at the outlying areas.
一切都是简易的。
Everything is simple.
梁艳冰所在的「办公室」，其实就是一间更衣室，桌子是用做仰卧起坐的台子搭的。
The "office" where Anita Leung is located is in fact a locker room where the table is built for sit-ups.
她在这里检查医护人员的防护衣是否穿好，用酒精喷壶进行初步消毒。
Here she checked to see if the paramedics' protective clothing was on and used an alcohol spray bottle for initial disinfection.
房间里摆着一台对讲机，用于与病区联络、沟通需求。
The room is equipped with a walkie-talkie to communicate with the sick area, communication needs.
除此之外，舱内舱外各有两部公用手机。
In addition, there are two public cell phones outside the cabin.
仿佛进入一场真正的战争，突发任务随时下达。
It was as if a real war had been fought, and a sudden task was ready.
来自福建的国家救援队派来之后，很快抽调去了其他地方。
The national rescue team from Fujian was sent to other places soon after it arrived.
广西队在5号接受了全天培训，晚上本没有工作安排，晚10点时突然被通知要派3个护士进方舱支援，随后命令又变了，12点前第一组人员（广西队分成5组）必须到位，临时去顶夜班。
Guang Xi team received full-time training on the 5th, no work arrangements at night, was suddenly informed at 10 p.m. to send three nurses into the cabin support, then changed orders, before 12 o'clock the first group (Guangxi Team divided into five groups) must be in place, temporary night work.
那晚完成队员交接工作后，负责外围联络的梁艳冰发现没有车送她和其他几个同事回去。
After finishing the handover that night, Anita Leung, who was in charge of the outpost, found no car to take her and several other colleagues home.
虽然有车停在外面，但她们调度不了，也没有联络电话。
Although there was a car parked outside, they could not move it and there was no contact number.
最后等了一个多小时，凌晨4点才坐上车回酒店。
After waiting for more than an hour, I got on the bus and went back to the hotel at 4 a.m.
她几乎一夜没睡，7点钟又要起床带队去接班。
She stayed up almost all night, getting up at seven to lead the procession.
好在从第二天起，对口接送的车辆安排下来。
Fortunately, from the next day, the corresponding transport arrangements under the vehicle.
病区的医护人员每一班4小时，最初是6小时，发现强度太大才降下来。
Medical staff in the affected areas spent four hours per shift, initially six hours, only to see the intensity drop off.
穿着防护衣，汗透不出去，一个班结束，「全身都是水」。
Wearing protective clothing, perspiration can not go out, a class end, "the whole body is water."
护目镜无法根据每个人的脸型去配，为了避免暴露，调得很紧，很多人的脸压伤了。
The goggles don't match each other's faces. To avoid exposure, they are tightly set and many people have had their faces bruised.
进入病区要有三级防护，里面一层隔离衣，外面一层隔离衣，中间是防护服，戴两层手套。
Enter the area to have three levels of protection, the inner layer of protective clothing, the outer layer of protective clothing, between the two layers of gloves.
脱比穿要更慎重，也耗时更长，规范操作时间是40分钟。
The stripper is more discreet and takes longer to wear, with a standard operating time of 40 minutes.
洗澡也占用了大量时间，按照要求，出舱后在体育馆里要洗30分钟，回到酒店再洗30分钟。
Bathing also takes up a lot of time and is required to take 30 minutes in the gym and 30 minutes in the hotel.
（按卫健委专家组成员吴安华的说法，不需这么机械，洗干净即可。
(According to Wei health committee expert group member Wu Anhua said, need not be so mechanical, wash clean.
）人人要洗30分钟，体育馆的热水供应难以保障，洗到后面水是冷的，再加上没有吹风机——在一开始就能考虑到所有这些细节实在太难了——室内温度只有几度，有几个同事因此感冒了。
) Everyone has to wash for 30 minutes, the hot water at the gym is not guaranteed, the water at the back is cold, and there is no hairdryer - it's hard to think about all these details at the start - it's only a few degrees cold, and several colleagues have caught a cold.
开过协调会后，上面派来电工，水冷的问题解决了，洗澡房也配了吹风机。
After the coordination meeting, the electrician was sent from above, the problem of water cooling was solved, and the bathroom was equipped with a hair dryer.
感冒的同事和处于生理期的同事无须排班。
Colds and colleagues in the physiological period do not have to shift.
从医护人员的角度看方舱的运营，和从病人的角度看是不同的。
The operation of the cabin from a medical point of view is different from that of a patient.
「如果说比生活条件，那肯定比不上你社区。
"If it's better than living conditions, it's definitely not as good as your community.
如果说比医疗设施，跟正规医院比那差了去了。
If anything, it's worse than a medical facility or a regular hospital.
很多患者一来，心理上面肯定是有落差的。
Many patients come, there must be psychological above the fall.
」肿瘤医院副队长王俊说，「方舱是大灾大疫的时候，一个过渡点一样的地方，来了之后你有药吃，有医护人员给你进行护理。
"The cabin was a place like a transition point when the plague struck," said Wang Junjun, deputy chief of the oncology hospital.
它里面可以有移动的CT，移动的DR，移动的检测车。
It can have a moving CT, a moving DR, a mobile detection vehicle.
」卫生打扫不及时，是因为很难找到临时工，还是靠中南路调来的几个清洁工勉力维持，后来又从二桥借了几个人过来。
"Sanitation cleaning was delayed because it was difficult to find temporary workers, or because a few cleaners from the south-central road managed to keep up and then borrowed a few people from Erqiao.
热水器是因为一开始没装，病人住进去，再请人进污染区施工就太难了。
Because the water heater didn't start with, it was so difficult to get people into the contaminated area because the patient lived in it.
饭菜偶尔是凉的或者未能赶在饭点发，是因为只有在医护人员交班时才能带进来，有时候没沟通好，就只能等下一班了，进去的人不能走回头路。
Occasionally, the food is cold or not served at meal times because it can only be brought in when medical staff are on duty. Sometimes when there is no good communication, one has to wait for the next one, and those who go in cannot turn back.
「我说句不好听的话，在方舱有时候比在医院里工作还辛苦。
"I have a hard word to say, but sometimes it's harder to work in the cabin than in the hospital.
在医院里面我就只负责他的医疗问题，这些东西我们都不用负责。
I'm only responsible for his medical problems in the hospital, and we're not responsible for any of this.
」王俊说。
"said Wang.
按照方舱医院的收治标准，只接受由社区转入的65岁以下、没有严重并发症的轻症患者。
In accordance with the admission criteria of the Fenghuang Hospital, only light patients under the age of 65 without serious complications are accepted for transfer from the community.
但实际情况是，由于定点医院床位太紧张，社区将一些标准之外的病人也送了过来。
In practice, however, due to the tight schedule of hospital beds, the community brought in patients who were not up to standard.
王俊介绍，出于人性化考虑，方舱还是接受其中一些病人，包括一位80多岁的婆婆。
Wang said, out of consideration of humanity, the cabin or accept some of the patients, including a mother-in-law in her 80s.
让一些病人感到不安的是，方舱不能输液，也没有ECMO（人工心肺）之类的急救设备。
To the unease of some patients, the cockpit cannot be filled with fluid, and there is no emergency equipment such as ECMO.
在反复要求下，直到第三天才有了供氧机。
After repeated requests, the oxygen machine was not available until the third day.
但从医生角度看，输液属于有创操作，对卫生环境有一定要求。
However, from the doctor's point of view, the infusion is a invasive operation, the sanitary environment has certain requirements.
最初没有供氧机和ECMO，也是因为那是重症病人才需要的。
Initially there was no oxygen supply and ECMO, also because it was needed for patients with severe illnesses.
理论而言，轻症病人可以靠服药等待自愈，一旦病情恶化，转为重症，按分流处理方案，将送到定点医院。
In theory, patients with mild illness can wait for self-recovery by taking medication. Once the condition deteriorates and becomes serious, they are referred to designated hospitals under the diversion scheme.
但实际衔接没有这么流畅，有的病人在方舱里等了一两天才转出去。
But the actual connection was not so smooth that some patients waited a day or two in the cabin before turning out.
「舱内的要催你赶紧转，转出去的条件就是要有接收他的医院和有床位，你还要联系救护车，还要有相应的医生领导来批注，评估他的病情。
"If the cabin calls you for a quick turn, the transfer is conditional on the availability of a hospital and a bed, you need to contact an ambulance, and a doctor to comment on and assess his condition.
所以一层一层（传上去），你就是一个中间人，两头都来说你。
So one layer at a time, you're a middleman, you're on both sides.
」护士唐斟说。
"said Tang, the nurse.
她经手转出的几个病号，东一个西一个，去了不同医院，「确实一床难求」。
She passed through the transfer of a few patients, one after another, to different hospitals, "really a bed difficult."
作为主要在舱外工作的护士，唐斟的工作时间比舱内护士更长，很多事情要协调汇报，头几天，每天只能睡两三个小时。
As an extravehicular nurse, Tang worked longer hours than the cabin nurse and had to report many things, only two or three hours a day for the first few days.
她也想过，是否可以请求肿瘤医院增派人手。
She also wondered if she could ask for more staff at the oncology hospital.
单位也有难处。
Units have their share of difficulties.
肿瘤医院不是肺炎定点收治医院，但人手同样捉襟见肘。
The oncology hospital is not the designated hospital for pneumonia, but it is also understaffed.
放疗科有大约1/3的医护人员处于隔离状态。
About one-third of the medical staff in the radiotherapy unit are isolated.
一个同事的老公是定点医院医生，遭到感染，家属因此也要隔离。
A colleague's husband, a doctor at a designated hospital, was infected and his family was quarantined.
年后第一天上班，她就连轴工作了24个小时。
On her first day of work in 2000, she worked 24 hours on an axis.
当她来到方舱后短短几天里，医院又派出了两批人马去支援石牌岭与随州，「感觉医院都已经掏空了」。
When she arrived at the square cabin in a matter of days, the hospital sent two more teams to support Shik Pak Ling and Suizhou. "It felt like the hospital was empty."
她告诉自己，挺过最初阶段，工作理顺就会好起来的。
She told herself that getting through the initial stages would make things better.
武汉体育馆方舱医院外景其实，作为示范点，武昌方舱条件已算优越。
Wuhan gymnasium Fang cabin hospital location in fact, as a demonstration site, Wuchang square cabin conditions have been considered superior.
医护人员有500余名，对应800张床位。
There are more than 500 medical personnel, corresponding to 800 beds.
以肿瘤医院值守的那片127张床位的区域来说，每一班有3个医生，十几个护士。
For the 127-bed area guarded by the oncology hospital, there were three doctors and a dozen nurses in each shift.
每天上下午，还有一位国家医疗队的医生进舱协助。
Every morning and afternoon, a doctor from the national medical team comes in to assist.
「说实话，真正能够叫方舱，其实只有我们这两三家。
"To tell you the truth, we're the only two or three that can really be called a cabin.
因为它有国家救援队，所以真的有那个（医疗）车，有舱。
Because it has a national rescue team, so there's really that [medical] car with the cabin.
」一位医生对《人物》说。
"said a doctor to People.
第二批启动的武汉体育中心方舱，一位江苏护士告诉《人物》，她和两位同事要负责一个病区里的90多个病人，每班6小时。
A Jiangsu nurse told PEOPLE that she and two colleagues were responsible for more than 90 patients in a six-hour shift in a sick area.
她所在的这支队伍一直在用自己带来的医疗物资，各自医院补寄过一批，但看起来还是有紧缺的危机。
Her team has been sending back medical supplies from its own hospitals, but there still seems to be a crisis of scarcity.
领导不断告诫她们省着点用，有些护士站的人不再穿最外层的隔离衣，「反正我接触病号的时间也少」，他们自我安慰。
The leaders kept telling them to save money. Some nurses stopped wearing outermost paraphernalia and comforted themselves by saying, "I've had less contact with the sick man anyway."
这位护士感到困惑：「后方比较吃紧，我们医院也被我们掏空了。
The nurse was puzzled: "The rear is tight and our hospital has been hollowed out.
如果我们的物资不够用的话，武汉政府会给我们提供吗？」汉阳方舱倒是从建成就解决了病人的洗澡问题——电热水器装在了蹲便池上方，但药的供应却无法满足需求。
If we don't have enough supplies, will the Wuhan government provide us with that? "The Hanyang square solved the problem of bathing patients from the moment they were built - the electric water heater was installed above the squat urinal, but the supply of medicine did not meet the demand.
2月13日，一个病人告诉《人物》，入舱三天来，汉阳方舱只统一发过一盒金花清感颗粒和一包「3号中药」。
On February 13, a patient told PEOPLE that in the past three days, only one box of Jinhua Qingseng granules and one package of "No. 3 Chinese Medicine" had been distributed in the Hanyang cabin.
他自己带的抗病毒药阿比多尔（定点医院一般会给确诊者开三五天剂量的阿比多尔）快吃完了，他不是没提过要求，医生一直说没有药。
His own antiviral drug, Abidor (which is usually prescribed three or five days at a designated hospital), is running out. He didn't ask for it. The doctor kept saying there was no medicine.
方舱里也没有护士监测体温，要自己跑去护士站才能量。
There was no nurse in the cabin to monitor the temperature and run to the nurses' station for energy.
「你又不给我检查，你又不给我用药。
"You're not going to give me a test, and you're not giving me medication.
我们其实要的是医疗，因为它叫医院啊，它不叫方舱隔离区嘛。
What we really want is medical care, because it's called a hospital. It's not called a cockpit exclusion zone.
」他抱怨道。
"he complained.
他跑去找医生。
He went to see a doctor.
医生告诉他，这些问题天天在向上反映。
The doctor told him that these questions were reflected upward every day.
更紧迫的情况是，很多社区安排进来的病人不符合进方舱的条件，他们在连夜筛查。
More urgently, many of the patients placed in by the community do not meet the conditions for entering the cabin, and they are screened overnight.
「3天只睡了8个小时。
"I only slept eight hours in three days.
」医生说。
"said the doctor.
舱内生活住进武昌方舱的第二天，付丹看到有人在垃圾站收拾，将在地上扔得乱七八糟的垃圾捡起来放到垃圾箱里。
The day after living in the cabin in Wuchang, Fudan saw someone cleaning up at the garbage station, picking up the rubbish thrown on the ground and putting it in the bin.
她感到有些奇怪，清洁工怎么没有穿防护服呢。
She wondered why the dustmen were not wearing protective clothing.
一问，原来那人是住在同一个病区的病友，住在159号床。
One question, it turned out that the man was living in the same sick area, living in bed No. 159.
这次目睹对于付丹来说是个转折点。
This was a turning point for Fudan.
她本来也是充满消极情绪，躺在床上不想动，「159号」的行为感染了她，她想着自己可以去做些力所能及的事情。
She, too, was in a negative mood, lying in bed not wanting to move. "159" infected her and she thought she could do something about it.
她发现，开水区地上总是湿漉漉的，原因在于热水器都没有装下水口。
She found that the ground in the boiling water area was always wet because the water heater was not equipped with a drain.
于是她跑到馆外，找了几个废桶，把管子接到里面排水，水满就倒掉。
So she ran outside and found some buckets, connected the pipe to the inner drain, and emptied it out.
慢慢地她发现，不止她一个人在做这件事，一些人自觉地在行动。
Slowly she discovered that she was not the only one doing it and that some people were acting on their own.
床号最初排得有些混乱，护士梁艳冰得到任务，需要按列在地上重贴一遍床号。
The number of beds initially arranged a bit chaotic, nurse Liang Yanbing got the task, need to be listed on the ground to re-paste the bed number.
她发现戴着手套，扯胶布很不方便。
She found it inconvenient to wear gloves and pull tape.
而和她一起贴的一位医生，穿得防护服比较紧，根本蹲不下身子。
And with her paste together with a doctor, wearing a relatively tight protective clothing, simply squat down.
很快就有病人主动来帮忙。
Soon the patient offered to help.
贴了一会儿需要休息，又有人接力下去，梁艳冰很感动。
Posted for a while need to rest, and then someone relayed down, Liang Yanbing very moved.
在护士发饭发药时，总有几个人上前帮忙。
When the nurse dispensed the medicine, several people came forward to help.
他们自作主张地命名了各自负责的部分，一区、二区、左区、右区。
They named their respective areas of responsibility in their own right, zone one, zone two, zone left and right.
肿瘤医院团队注意到这种趋势，于是画了图，将区域分为ABCDE，从病人中选出区长，自我管理。
The oncology team noticed the trend and drew a map, dividing the area into ABCDE, selecting the district governor from among the patients and managing himself.
应区长们要求，一个扩音喇叭送了进来。
At the request of the sous-préfets, a loudspeaker arrived.
「有武器了，有时候宣传一下。
"Arms, sometimes propaganda.
」自荐成为区长的付丹说。
"said Fu Dan, a self-recommended district mayor.
积极性就这样调动起来。
Motivation was thus mobilized.
考虑到垃圾里有汤水，总导致焚烧炉熄火，区长们号召大家注意干湿垃圾分类，汤水要倒到厕所里。
Considering that there was soup in the garbage, which always led to the burning of the incinerator, the section chiefs called attention to the separation of dry and wet garbage and to pour the soup into the toilet.
有人拖地、收垃圾，卫生条件得到了改善。
Some people mop the floor and collect rubbish. Sanitary conditions have been improved.
方舱24小时不熄灯影响大家睡眠，付丹托在外的朋友买眼罩，跑了几个商店都没有。
Cabin 24 hours do not turn off the lights affect everyone's sleep, pay Danto outside friends to buy blindfolds, run a few shops are not.
最后，她找到一个在社区组织工作的朋友，恰好有批给小朋友做游戏准备的眼罩，全部捐了过来。
Finally, she found a friend working in a community organization, just a batch of children to do the game prepared blindfold, all donated over.
武汉客厅方舱医院的「信心树」，患者和医护人员可以用便利贴留言 图源我们视频方舱正在慢慢进入正轨。
Wuhan living room square cabin hospital "confidence tree," patients and medical personnel can use the convenient posted message map source our video cabin is slowly getting into the right track.
空调系统经改造后，体育馆能供暖了，室温升到15度。
The air-conditioning system was renovated and the gymnasium was heated to 15 degrees room temperature.
新增了几百床被子，如果睡觉还感到冷，可以盖两床。
Hundreds of new quilts have been added and two beds can be built if you still feel cold sleeping.
厕所装上了灯，露天位置搭了避雨棚。
Lights were installed in the toilets and shelters were set up in open spaces.
在第三天时，吸氧机运进来了。
On the third day the oxygen machine arrived.
第四天时，到了一批书，可供借阅。
On the fourth day, a number of books were made available for borrowing.
重症患者陆续转走，每天都有医护人员查血氧了。
Grave patients continue to be transferred, every day a medical staff blood oxygen.
一名心理咨询师被请过来，每天上下午各半小时，对病人进行心理疏导。
A counselor was invited to come every day in the morning and half an hour in the afternoon, to the patient psychological counseling.
付丹感到，方舱里明显能听到笑声了。
Fu Dan felt that laughter was clearly audible in the cabin.
依然有人有抱怨，但转身给家里打电话，「你们能住就来这住，这里毕竟有人管，也更安全。
There are still complaints, but turn to the home phone, "you can live here, after all, there are people, it is safer.
」舱外是另外一个世界了。
It's another world out there.
微博上，依然能见到重症患者得不到床位的求助。
On microblogs, patients with severe illnesses still have no access to beds.
最惨的个案往往能够得到人们的注意，得到大量转发。
The worst cases tend to get people's attention and get a lot of forwarding.
转发不意味着必然得到解决。
Forwarding does not necessarily mean that it is resolved.
对肺炎感染和疑似者「应收尽收」是一道死命令，但需要更长时间消化。
"Receivable" for pneumonia infected and suspected persons is a death order, but it takes longer to digest.
方舱里有了微波炉，又有了电视——但没什么人在看，大家主要看手机。
There was a microwave oven in the cabin and a TV -- but no one was watching. People were watching cell phones.
自发打扫的病人带的衣服不多，怕弄脏没得换，请求提供雨衣披在最外，医生们干脆送去四个白大褂，有的连号牌都没取走。
Spontaneous cleaning patients do not bring a lot of clothes, afraid of getting dirty not to change, request to provide raincoat in the outermost, the doctors simply sent four white coats, some not even the number plate.
在舱内，各种生活用品，从卫生巾、拖鞋、肥皂到指甲剪，提出要求后，基本都满足了。
Inside, everything from sanitary towels, slippers, soap to nail clips is basically satisfied.
购买需要走流程，怕里面的人用不上，护士们送去自己的洗发水。
Purchases need to go through the flow, afraid the people inside do not use, nurses send their own shampoo.
有人要吃清真食物，有人有糖尿病，就专门给他们配餐。
Some people want to eat halal food, others have diabetes, they are specially equipped with meals.
「送过来的时候你就要告诉我哪几个是清真的，我就要在上面进行标注，送餐的时候我们又要跟里面的护士说是哪几个病人，你不要弄错了，一定要发到他的手上。
"When you bring it in, you will tell me which ones are clear, and I will mark them on them, and we will tell the nurses inside which patients they are, so make no mistake and send them to him.
这都是很小的一些细节。
These are very small details.
」唐斟说。
"said Tang.
有人口腔溃疡想吃稀饭，唐斟把他的需求记录下来汇报上去。
Some oral ulcers want to eat porridge, Don poured out a note of his needs to report.
在舱外世界，医护人员可能无力兼顾这些细节。
In the extravehicular world, healthcare professionals may not be able to take these details into account.
在武汉九医院——这个二甲综合性医院临时变成定点救治医院，两个护士需要负责8个病危病人和45个重症病人。
At Wuhan Jiu Hospital, a temporary designated hospital for patients with dialysis, two nurses are responsible for 8 critically ill patients and 45 seriously ill patients.
整夜不停地换氧气桶，汗流浃背。
Changing oxygen tanks all night, sweating profusely.
湖北孝感一名女护士，每天要上下五层楼，搬运数吨隔离病房里的医疗垃圾，因为医疗垃圾不能进电梯，最终因劳累过度晕倒在路边。
Hubei filial piety of a female nurse, up and down the fifth floor every day, carrying tons of medical waste in the isolation ward, because medical waste can not enter the elevator, eventually due to excessive fatigue collapsed on the roadside.
2月9日这天晚上，武昌方舱里，病人们自发跳起了广场舞。
On the evening of February 9, patients spontaneously danced in the square of Wuchang Square.
大家用手机进入同一个直播频道，伴奏就有了立体环绕效果。
Everyone uses the mobile phone to enter the same live channel, accompaniment has three-dimensional surround effect.
「其实动作看得清不清楚，齐不齐啊，是次要的吧。
"I can't see the movements clearly. I can't see them properly.
主要是在于那个心情。
Mainly in that mood.
」付丹说。
"said Fu Dan.
这在社区隔离点和医院是无法想象的事情，只有方舱，才能提供这样的人际互动。
This is unthinkable at community isolation points and hospitals, and only cabins can provide such interpersonal interaction.
有医护人员对记者表达对交叉感染的忧虑，但没有成为主流声音。
Health-care workers have expressed concerns about cross-infection to journalists, but have not become mainstream voices.
武汉方舱里，病人们在医护人员的带领下跳起了广场舞图源风视频同样这一天，《人物》记者在追踪另一条线索，一批武汉中心医院的护工被他们照顾的慢性病人感染肺炎，被医院要求撤离。
On the same day, People was following another lead. A group of nurses at Wuhan Central Hospital were asked to evacuate from a chronic patient they were looking after for pneumonia.
他们都是外来打工者，没有固定住所，也没有对接社区，露宿街头。
They are migrant workers, have no fixed abode, have no docking community and live on the streets.
并没有任何一种现行处理流程，适用于这一群人。
There is no single current process that works for this group of people.
在记者群扩散后，中国青年报的记者给他们找到了住处。
Journalists from the China Youth Daily found a home for them after a proliferation of reporters.
方舱里终于可以洗澡了。
At last the cabin was ready for a bath.
走在路上，人们彼此打招呼。
People greeted each other as they walked along the road.
每天有水果、有鸡蛋吃。
Fruit and eggs are eaten every day.
每餐有三个菜，荤素搭配。
There are three dishes per meal, meat and vegetable.
元宵节那天，早餐吃的汤圆。
On the Lantern Festival, I had a dumpling for breakfast.
病人们被告知，一天的伙食标准是120元。
Patients were told that the daily rate for meals was 120 yuan.
当一个赴武汉采访的记者在微博上开玩笑说，「吃得比我还好」，他遭遇了接连几天的网络暴力。
When a reporter interviewed in Wuhan joked on Weibo that "he ate better than I did," he suffered days of cyber violence.
「吃得不应该比你好吗？」网友对他说。
"Shouldn't you eat better?" netizens told him.
方舱通过情况摸底，组织病人成立了党支部。
By mapping out the situation, the patient was organized into a Party branch.
付丹是宣传委员，职业是民警、有着20多年党龄的张兵被指定为东区临时党支书。
Fu Dan is propaganda committee, profession is the police, has more than 20 years of party years Zhang Bing has been designated as the temporary party branch.
张兵高烧已经退了，他特别积极，一刻停不下来，忙前忙后帮医务人员分担杂务，一天下来微信运动显示走了一万多步。
Zhang Bing high fever has retreated, he is particularly active, can not stop for a moment, busy after helping medical staff to share chores, the day after the micro-letter campaign showed more than 10, 000 steps.
主流媒体报道之外，这天里发生了一件值得引起重视的事情：在武钢二医院，一批患者在凌晨2点被转院，几位老人因为走不动，在停车场掉队，医护人员没有发现。
Outside the mainstream media coverage, an important incident occurred this day: a group of patients were transferred to WISCO 2 Hospital at 2 am. Several elderly people were left behind in the parking lot because they could not walk. Medical staff did not notice.
在冷风中熬到早上8点才被路人发现，按转院单写的医院名字送过去，医院却说手续不全无法接收。
In the cold wind until 8 a.m. was found by passers-by, according to the name of the hospital referred to the hospital sent, the hospital said incomplete procedures can not be accepted.
直到此时，一个老人的家人才接到电话，知道转院消息，之前对整个过程一无所知。
It was not until then that an old man's family received a phone call to find out about the transfer and knew nothing about the whole process.
扩音喇叭再次派上了用场，大家会一起唱《歌唱祖国》，「在唱之前我还是觉得有点不好意思的，但是确实你要相信大家在一起这个歌声的力量，包括这个正能量的东西，真真正正地感染了所有的人。
The loudspeaker came in again, and everyone would sing "Sing the Motherland." "I feel a little bit embarrassed before singing, but you do have to believe that the power of the song together, including this positive energy, really infects everyone.
」付丹说。
"said Fu Dan.
2月11日，张伟成为武昌方舱的首批28位出院者之一，这28个人里，最晚入院时间为2月9日。
On February 11, Zhang Wei became one of the first 28 people discharged from Wuchang's cabin. The 28 were admitted to hospital on February 9 at the latest.
按照出院标准，病人需三天没有发烧，呼吸道的症状缓解，CT片显示病灶好转，核酸2次检测是阴性。
According to the discharge criteria, the patient did not have a fever for three days, respiratory symptoms alleviated, CT scan showed an improvement, nucleic acid testing was negative 2 times.
「住进来之后住得还不想走了。
"I don't want to leave after I've lived here.
」有人感叹。
"sighed one.
这句话上了电视。
That was on TV.
截至发稿前，武汉已有13家方舱医院开舱，可提供救治的床位达到了13348张。
By the time of writing, Wuhan had opened 13 cabin hospitals, with 13,348 beds available for treatment.
下一步计划还将增建19家。
A further 19 are planned as a next step.
十几天过去了，付丹还在等待出院，应该很快了，她准备把衣服、日常用品和被子统统打包扔掉。
Ten days later, Fu Dan was still waiting to be discharged from hospital. She was going to pack up her clothes, everyday things and quilts and throw them away.
她注意到，方舱里，跳广场舞的人越来越多了，唱歌的人越来越多了。
She noticed that more and more people were dancing in the square and singing more and more.
坏消息越来越少。
Bad news is dwindling.
武汉体育馆方舱医院（黄孝光、王辉对本文亦有贡献）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Wuhan gymnasium Fang cabin hospital (Huang Xiaoguang, Wang Hui also contributed to this article) did not see enough? Long two-dimensional focus on "People" micro-message more wonderful story waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱的日与夜。
The day and night of the cabin.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "方舱的日与夜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; day and night at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "混乱和有序在这里同时发生着。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; chaos and order occurred at the same time here.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
