专访作家方方：保持自己的诚实和正义感，这是必须的。
Interview with writer Fang Fang: Maintain your sense of honesty and justice, which is a must.
隗延章。
Kui Yanzhang.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
"I am not a man concerned with public affairs at all.
但我会关注民生和世道”作家方方。
But I will pay attention to people's livelihood and worldly affairs. "
中新社记者 张道正 摄专访作家方方保持自己的诚实和正义感本刊记者/隗延章发于2020.2.17总第935期《中国新闻周刊》自疫情蔓延以来，身居武汉的著名作家方方开始在网络记述她所见证和思考的一切，她努力言说不停歇。
Kui Yanzhang 2007-9-24 16: 16 Kui Yanzhang 2007-11-26 09: 36 Journalist Kui Yanzhang Since the outbreak spread in Wuhan, famous writer Fang Fang has been writing about everything she witnessed and thought on the Internet. She tried her best to keep her mouth shut.
她说，“把这种非常时期的人和事记录下来，难道不是我们当作家的人所应该做的吗？”2月10日，方方独家回复了《中国新闻周刊》的专访，谈及她于武汉封城前后的生活，李文亮去世后的悲愤，以及她对于知识分子在公共事务中应该扮演的角色。
On February 10, Fang Fang gave an exclusive reply to an interview with China News Weekly about her life before and after the closure of Wuhan, Li Wenliang's death, and her role in the public affairs of intellectuals.
“封城时逃出去也不是不行，但我根本没有产生这个念头”中国新闻周刊：你最初了解到武汉有“疑似SARS的肺炎”那一刻，你正在做什么？当时听到这一消息，你的反应是什么？方方：我是去年12月31日从我大哥那里知道的这事。
"It's not impossible to escape while sealing the city, but I didn't have the idea at all." China News Weekly: What were you doing when you first learned that Wuhan had "pneumonia suspected of SARS"?
我们家里有一个小群，就是我和我三个哥哥。
We have a small family of three brothers and I.
那时候，大家就立即相互警告，不要出门，不要去人多的地方，不要去医院，出门戴口罩。
At that time, people immediately warned each other, do not go out, do not go to crowded places, do not go to the hospital, go out wearing masks.
经过2003年的SARS事件，大家都有这种基本的警惕性。
After the SARS incident in 2003, we all have this basic level of vigilance.
中国新闻周刊：你确切知道肺炎真的很严重那一刻的情景是怎样的？听到这一消息，你的反应是什么？做了哪些事情？方方：我高度保持警惕的时间应该是元月18日。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: You know exactly what happened when pneumonia was really serious? What was your reaction to the news? What did you do? Fang Fang: I should be on high alert on January 18.
网上的流言已经很多了。
There's been a lot of gossip online.
毕竟那是传染病。
After all, it was infectious.
从那天起，我出门戴了口罩。
From that day on, I went out to wear a mask.
但我家是独门独院，自己开车，接触的人少。
But my family is unique, driving their own cars, contact less people.
只是心里是很生气的。
I'm just pissed off.
因为在此前，一直告诉我们不会人传人的，尽管我们事先都有警惕，但大家都相信政府。
Because until now, we had been told that there would be no human-to-human transmission, and although we had been vigilant beforehand, everyone believed in the government.
甚至我哥哥还说，这么大的事，政府不可能隐瞒的。
Even my brother said that the government could not conceal such a big thing.
我在有的朋友群里，也说过同样的话。
I have said the same thing in some groups of friends.
中国新闻周刊：得知武汉封城那一刻，你有考虑过暂时离开武汉吗？那时你的想象中，如果待在武汉，接下来的生活会是怎样的？方方：我在1月22日晚上（即封城的前一天）去机场接我女儿，她从日本旅游回来。
China News Weekly: Did you ever think about leaving Wuhan temporarily when you learned that Wuhan was closed? Then you imagined what life would be like if you stayed in Wuhan? Fang: I met my daughter at the airport on the evening of January 22, the day before the city was closed.
那时候武汉已经相当紧张和恐慌了。
By that time Wuhan had become quite nervous and frightened.
钟南山先生的“人可传人”的信息公开后，政府没有任何声音，老百姓就开始慌了，街上行人很少。
When Mr Zhong's message of "people can be passed on" became public, the government made no noise, people began to panic, the street few people.
这种恐慌感，是莫名其妙的，但却真实存在，而且蔓延很快。
This sense of panic is inexplicable, but it is real and spreading fast.
我去机场前，跟朋友说，真的有点“风萧萧兮易水寒”的感觉。
I go to the airport, with friends to say, really a bit "wind rustling, easy cold" feeling.
而同时，正是那天，我女儿她父亲在上海住院，说是可能中招。
At the same time, that very day, my daughter, her father, was hospitalized in Shanghai, saying it might have been a hit.
我女儿去日本前曾与她父亲一起吃过饭，所以我的心里更是忧心忡忡，生怕女儿感染到。
My daughter had a meal with her father before she went to Japan, so I was even more worried lest my daughter should get infected.
那天飞机晚点，接到女儿后，已是深夜。
The plane was late that day. It was late at night when she received her daughter.
我们俩在车上都不摘口罩，决定先让她到自己住处隔离一周，我给她送些吃的。
Neither of us took off our masks on the bus, and decided to have her quarantined for a week while I brought her some food.
我送她回家后，在回自己家的路上，又去加油，到家时已经是凌晨一点左右。
After I saw her home, on the way home, go back to refueling, when it was around 1: 00 a.m.
这时打开电脑，第一时间得知即将封城。
Then open the computer, the first time to know that the city will be closed.
当时要整理行李逃出去也不是不行，但实际上我根本没有产生这个念头。
It wasn't impossible to pack up and get out, but I didn't think of it at all.
武汉市那么多人，大家都被封在家里，我的条件跟老百姓比，几乎是最好的之一。
Wuhan so many people, we are locked at home, my conditions compared to the common people, almost one of the best.
大家能生活，我自然也能。
People can live, and so can I.
所以，并没有太多担心。
So, there is not much to worry about.
说来说去，还是相信政府。
After all, trust the government.
事情到了这一步，政府定会有办法控制疫情。
At this point, the government will certainly be able to contain the outbreak.
中国新闻周刊：今年的新年，对于每个中国人来说，都太特殊了。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: This year's New Year is too special for every Chinese.
以往没有疫情时的新年，你通常是怎样度过的？方方：以前也差不多这样，也是待在家里。
How do you usually spend your New Year when there was no epidemic? Fang Fang: It used to be the same, just stay at home.
有所差异只是，过年中间会有一天，去我舅公杨叔子那里拜年并聚餐，见见一众亲戚。
It's just that one day in the middle of the New Year, I will pay a New Year call and have a dinner with my uncle Yang and meet some relatives.
然后就是女儿在家住几天。
Then my daughter stayed at home for a few days.
其余的，还是在家看书看电视以及写作。
The rest, reading at home, watching TV and writing.
我平时经常宅在家里，一待十天不出门，所以我的职业让我并不觉得关在家里有什么难处。
I usually stay at home for ten days, so my career doesn't make it difficult for me to stay at home.
“李文亮的死让我很悲愤”中国新闻周刊：我看你的“封城记”中，涉及了大量跟武汉有关的消息、新闻。
"Li Wenliang's death makes me very sad and indignant." China News Weekly: I see that your "story of the city" involves a lot of news and news related to Wuhan.
这些天，你在看这些消息时，你的情绪变化是怎样的？方方：其实初期阶段，武汉很乱，很恐慌，但我们不能传达这种恐慌。
How is your mood changing these days, as you read the news? Fang Fang: Actually, in the early stages, Wuhan was confused and frightened, but we can't convey the panic.
我要给政府帮忙，这是基本想法。
I want to help the government. That's the basic idea.
这时候的心情会有些复杂，一方面你明知道发生了什么事，甚至知道是什么原因延误了时间，但另一方面却必须放弃有些内容。
The mood at this point can be a little complicated. On the one hand, you know what happened and even know what is causing the delay, but on the other hand you have to give up something.
这是没办法的事。
There's no way to do that.
疫情是大事，我们必须跟政府团结一致，共同抗疫。
The epidemic is a major event, and we must stand united with the Government in fighting it.
而实际上，到了初一，全国关注武汉，武汉人的情绪已经开始稳定，已经开始接受不能出门的日子，并且已经变得通达起来。
In fact, to the first day of junior high school, the national attention Wuhan, Wuhan people's mood has begun to stabilize, has begun to accept can not go out of the day, and has become accessible.
这是一个转折点。
This is a turning point.
只是，后来随着发病的人越来越多，而医院根本无法接受这么多人，时间长了，事情都发生在大家身边，不可能不会感到压抑和不安。
Only, with the increasing number of cases, and the hospital simply can not accept so many people, long time, things happen around us, can not not feel depressed and uneasy.
李文亮的死，之所以引起滔天大浪，其实也是压抑已久的人们需要一个出口，发泄自己的心情。
Li Wenliang's death, the cause of huge waves, in fact, people who have been repressed for a long time need an outlet, vent their feelings.
中国新闻周刊：当你情绪不好的时候，会去做哪些事情去消化这些情绪？方方：我一向是很理智的人。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: What do you do to digest these emotions when you are in a bad mood? Fang Fang: I have always been a reasonable person.
我曾经五年内做过三次手术，同事跟我开玩笑，说我都是生机勃勃走到医院动的手术，我可以理智到在我身体最好的时候去除掉体内的病灶。
I had three surgeries in five years, and my co-workers joked that I was alive and well enough to get to the hospital and get rid of the lesion at my best.
其实没几个人可以做到这个。
Not many people can do that.
每一次手术，都如同电脑重新启动。
In every operation, it was like a computer reboot.
我觉得自己做对了。
I think I did the right thing.
而前些天，连我都有了紧张和恐慌的时刻。
The other day, even I had moments of tension and panic.
我对自己是不紧张的。
I'm not nervous about myself.
尽管我在元旦之后到18日前，曾经三次去过医院。
Although I had been to the hospital three times between New Year's Day and 18 years ago.
我一直在用排除法，来排除我是否有可能被感染。
I've been using elimination to rule out the possibility of infection.
我的结论是，我不可能被感染。
My conclusion is that I can't be infected.
我的紧张主要来自家人处在不确定中。
My nervousness stems mainly from the uncertainty of my family.
我一直对自己作心理暗示：要平静，要理智，最坏的结果有多严重。
I have been mentally hinting at myself: Be calm, sensible, and how bad the worst is.
其实最坏的结果就是我女儿可能被感染。
The worst that could happen is that my daughter could get infected.
但是她年轻，一定不会有事。
But she's young. She'll be fine.
我要求女儿随时注意自己的身体变化，好在她一直没事，而后来她父亲也排除了新冠肺炎。
I asked my daughter to keep an eye on her body, but she was all right, and her father later ruled out pneumonia.
再之后，我们都顺利地过了14天的隔离期。
After that, we all had a 14-day isolation period.
中国新闻周刊：这些天，你的家人的状况是怎样的？方方：我从小在武汉生活，我有两个哥哥也在武汉。
China News Weekly: What's the status of your family these daysFang Fang: I grew up in Wuhan, and my two brothers are in Wuhan.
我小哥正好住在华南海鲜市场附近，所以他是最让人担心的。
My little brother lives right near the South China Seafood Market, so he's the biggest worry.
但好在他很早就出门戴口罩了。
Luckily, he went out early to wear a mask.
今天看到他们小区得病人数排在全武汉第一。
Today, I saw the number of patients in their district ranked first in Wuhan.
他那里是我们最担心的。
He's where we're most worried.
我大哥在华科大，那边本来就距汉口比较远，大哥接触的人也不多，所以他不会有事，我是知道的。
My elder brother is in Huakkoo University, which is far away from Hankou, and there are not many people in contact with Big Brother, so he will be all right, I know.
好在目前大家都还很安全。
Luckily everyone is safe so far.
封城以及封门近二十天了，受感染而发作的人，大概都已经发作了。
Almost twenty days after the cordon and sealing of the city, the man affected by the infection must have been seized.
应该说，我们大家都平顺地度过了最危险的时候。
It is fair to say that we have all sailed through the most dangerous times.
中国新闻周刊：见到李文亮去世的消息那一刻，你正在做什么？接下来，你做了哪些与这个消息有关的事情？方方：那时我刚刚写完当天的博客。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: What were you doing at the moment you saw the news of Li Wenliang's death? And what did you do with the news? Fang Fang: I had just finished writing my blog for the day.
听到这个李文亮死的消息，真的非常悲愤。
Hearing the news of Li Wenliang's death, he was very sad indeed.
这种心情，可能身在武汉之外的人难以体会得到。
This kind of mood, may be outside Wuhan people difficult to understand.
“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
"I am not a man concerned with public affairs at all.
但我会关注民生和世道”中国新闻周刊：1998年洪水时，你也曾写过文章《把这一切都记住》。
But I will be concerned about people's livelihood and the ways of life. "China News Weekly: In the 1998 flood, you wrote" Remember it all. "
在你看来，在重大灾难发生时，将灾难记录下来，是写作者应有的责任吗？方方：洪水时候，我还可以到大堤跑一天，那时我也年轻。
In your opinion, it is the responsibility of the writer to record disasters in the event of a cataclysmic eventFang Fang: I can also run to the embankment for a day during the flood, when I was also young.
现在我几乎是个老人了，就算想去当志愿者，都害怕给人添麻烦。
Now that I'm almost an old man, I'm afraid of causing trouble even if I want to volunteer.
所以，我自己一直说，我在家里待着，保证自己不病，就是帮忙。
So I've been saying myself, staying at home, making sure I'm not sick, is helping.
那么，在我没病的时候，把这种非常时期的人和事，记录下来，难道不是我们当作家的人所应该做的吗？其实记录者很多，各人都有各人的角度，这样多好。
And then, when I am not ill, should not it be the duty of our writers to record such extraordinary events and persons as I am not ill?
这可以让未来的人们真正了解到2020年的疫情真相。
This will give future generations a true picture of the epidemic in 2020.
中国新闻周刊：大概从什么年纪起，你开始认为自己是一个“知识分子”？那个年纪，你对自己“知识分子”这一角色的理解是怎样的？方方：我从小到大，就是在知识分子堆里长大的。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: At what age did you begin to think of yourself as an "intellectual"? At that age, what was your understanding of your role as an "intellectual"? Fang Fang: I grew up in the intellectual community.
那时候，学历高的人，就是知识分子。
In those days, the highly educated were intellectuals.
我祖父是北大毕业的，后来当老师；我父亲是上海交大毕业的，后来当工程师。
My grandfather graduated from Peking University and later became a teacher. My father graduated from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and later became an engineer.
他们都很自然地认为自己是知识分子。
They all take it for granted that they are intellectuals.
我大学毕业后，也很自然觉得自己是个知识分子。
When I graduated from college, I naturally felt like an intellectual.
当年的理解，就这么简单。
That's how it was, that's it.
中国新闻周刊：你的父亲、祖父都是知识分子。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Your father and grandfather were intellectuals.
我看公开资料写，你有一个阶段，花了很大精力去考察他们的人生经历，也曾在作品中讲述他们的人生。
I read about public sources. You've had a phase where you've spent a lot of time looking at their life experiences and talking about their lives in their books.
在你尚未专门考察家族史的时候，祖父和父亲在你的印象中，分别是怎样的人？方方：我祖父死得早，我根本对他没有任何了解。
What are your impressions of Grandpa and Father when you haven't specifically examined the family history? Fang Fang: My grandfather died early, and I don't know anything about him at all.
开始写作后，看到一些资料，还有他的学生的回忆录，才慢慢知道他的一些事。
After he began to write, he began to learn something about him by reading some materials and the memoirs of his students.
我父亲我自然是很了解的，但是那时年龄小，体会不到他的心情。
My father, of course, knew me well, but at that time I was too young to feel his feelings.
他们都只是一介书生，对政治不感兴趣，也从无意仕途。
They are mere academics, uninterested in politics, and never interested in careers.
他们都是努力做好自己本分的事。
They are all trying to do their part.
好像我家人都是这样。
It's like my family.
我自己也是如此。
So do I myself.
我当省作协主席，也是他们要我当的。
I am the chairman of the provincial cooperation, they also want me to take.
我哥哥还劝我不要当，把小说写好就可以了。
My brother also advised me not to take it too seriously and just write the novel.
我当时不好意思推却，反正作协主席也不是什么官，就同意了。
I was embarrassed to refuse, anyway, the chairman of the association is not what officials, agreed.
我们都是不喜欢跟外界有过多接触的人。
We all don't like people who have too much contact with the outside world.
中国新闻周刊：大概在上世纪80年代末期，你开始写祖父和父亲作为知识分子的人生和当时的处境。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Around the end of the 1980s, you began to write about the life and circumstances of your grandfather and father as intellectuals.
在追溯他们的过往时，你对他们有了哪些新的认识？方方：我前面说了，他们就是一介书生。
What new insights do you have about them in retrospect? Fang Fang: As I said before, they are a scholar.
关心世道关心民生，而不关心政治，也无意参与。
Caring about the world cares about people's livelihood, not politics, and has no intention of participating.
我对祖父的了解太少，他去世时，我父亲自己也才刚刚大学毕业。
I knew too little about Grandpa. When he died, my father had just graduated from college.
但我父亲则有一堆日记留了下来。
But my father had a pile of diaries left.
他从1942年开始到他死的日记，都保留着。
He kept his diary from 1942 until his death.
其实像中国很多知识分子一样，他爱国，有正义感，希望生活安静平和，爱家庭，对政治运动充满苦恼，为自己所学无处可用感到悲观。
Like many intellectuals in China, he loves his country, his sense of justice, his desire for a quiet and peaceful life, his love for his family, his unhappiness with the political movement, and his pessimism that he has nowhere to go.
尽管如此，他还是在努力地学习，希望有一天能有用处。
Nevertheless, he was studying hard, hoping that one day he would be of use.
“文革”中，我父亲在家，除了读书就是读书。
During the Cultural Revolution, my father was at home, studying instead of reading.
他们真是悲哀的两代人。
They are really two generations of woe.
祖父是遇到战争，社会动荡，导致被日寇杀害，而父亲更多的是在政治运动中不得安宁。
Grandfather was confronted with war, social unrest, resulting in the Japanese killed, and the father is more in the political movement restless.
中国新闻周刊：去写作、理解祖父和父亲的过程，对你产生了怎样的影响？你对自己作为“知识分子”的自我期许，会随着理解祖父、父亲的人生的过程，产生变化吗？方方：我的职业跟他们不一样。
China News Weekly: How did your writing and understanding of your grandfather and father affect you? Do your self-expectations of yourself as an "intellectual" change as you understand the life of your grandfather and father? Fang Fang: My career is different from theirs.
他们可以更纯粹地做学问，尽管他们没能有这个机会。
They can study more simply, although they have not had the opportunity.
但我大哥二哥他们就可以了。
But my elder brother and brother they can do it.
但我的职业要求我的关注面更广一些，要求我对社会民生必须有更深入的了解。
But my career requires me to pay more attention to a wider range, and I must have a deeper understanding of the people's livelihood.
每个人的成长过程和生活背景决定着彼此的不同。
Each person's upbringing and life background determine their differences.
这个不需要去了解祖父或父亲，自己在成长过程中，随着年龄的成熟，见识的增加，观念的改变，自然会有变化。
You don't need to know your grandfather or father. As you grow up, you naturally change your outlook as you get older, become more knowledgeable, and change your outlook.
这个用不着勉强往父辈头上套。
This doesn't have to be imposed on parents.
中国新闻周刊：2015年之前，大众对你的印象，似乎更多是一个埋头写作的作家，而非热衷参与公共事件的知识分子。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Before 2015, the public's impression of you seems to be more of a writer-writer than an intellectual obsessed with public events.
这种印象，是一种对你的误解吗？方方：我现在也不是热衷公共事件的人。
Is this impression a misunderstanding of you? Fang Fang: I am not a passionate public event either.
很多事，不是我怎么样了，而是别人把我怎么样了。
A lot of things, not what happened to me, but what others did to me.
近些年，有的事，只是我尽自己的工作之责；有的事，是人家批判我的小说，我不服气，反驳而已。
In recent years there have been cases in which I have done my duty; there have been cases in which my novels have been criticized, and I have denied them.
无意间变成了事件。
Unintentionally turned into an event.
我现在仍然不是一个公共事件的积极发声者。
I am still not an active voice in public events.
比方这次，我只是想记录一点事，没料到会这样。
For example, this time, I just want to record something, did not expect this.
说实话，我非常意外。
To tell you the truth, I was surprised.
我甚至没想过天天去写的，比方，初二我就没写。
I didn't even think about writing it every day. For example, I didn't write it in Grade Two.
我本来就是一个随意懒散的人。
I was originally a sloppy person.
可以说，所有的事，没有一件是我自己事先预料到的，都是激怒我而不得已反抗。
It is fair to say that none of these things, which I had foreseen in advance, provoked me into revolt.
我现在仍然是一个喜欢待在家里写作读书的人。
I am still a person who likes to stay at home and write and read.
偶尔闲了，跟朋友出门逛逛，吃吃喝喝。
Occasionally idle, go out with friends, eat, drink and drink.
大家经常说，我们要享受岁月静好呀。
It is often said that we should enjoy the quiet time.
但是保持自己的诚实和正义感，保持自己的正直之心，这是必须的。
But it is necessary to maintain a sense of honesty and justice and integrity.
中国新闻周刊：在外界看来，你在越来越关注公共事务之后，在文学创作的选材上，似乎会随之变化。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: You seem to be changing your selection of literary creations as you become more and more concerned with public affairs.
对你来说，关注公共事务和文学创作之间，会彼此影响吗？还是说，两者是彼此独立、互不影响的事情？方方：如前所述，我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
For you, is it possible to focus on the relationship between public affairs and literary creation, or are the two separate and mutually exclusive things? Fang Fang: As mentioned earlier, I am not a person concerned with public affairs at all.
但我会关注民生和世道，关注个人的生活。
But I will pay attention to people's livelihood and the world, personal life.
所以有时候，会转发一些别人的东西，那些是我认同的。
So sometimes, I forward something from someone else that I identify with.
我自己并没有多少发声。
I don't make much noise myself.
很惭愧。
I am ashamed of myself.
所以，你这个问题不成立。
So, you don't have a problem.
中国新闻周刊：这次疫情发生之后，你发声提醒同行，“在灾难后歌功颂德要注意底线”。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: After this outbreak, you said to your colleagues, "pay attention to the bottom line after the disaster."
当年在你担任湖北省作协主席时，有遇到类似的事情让你为难吗？如果有，当时具体的情况是怎样的？你是怎样处理的？方方：其实这种人任何时候都有的，有些文字，实在让人看不下去，像那个写什么感谢“冠状君”的，真是太恶心了。
When you were chairman of the Hubei Provincial Association, did you have a similar problem? If so, what was the specific situation? How did you deal with it? Fang Fang: In fact, there are people of this kind at any time.
我当作协主席时，把写作者分为三类，一类是擅长写主旋律作品的作者，二是有相当写作功底的作者，三是已经出名的有自己风格的作家。
When I was chairman, I divided the writers into three groups, those who were good at writing the main melody, those who had good writing skills, and those who were well-known for their own style of writing.
按这三类人，给予帮助，或是分派任务。
Help or assign tasks to each of these three groups.
当然，也没有明显界线。
Of course, there is no obvious line.
作家协会，有重大事件发生时，总是有任务的。
Writers' associations, when major events occur, always have a mission.
汶川地震后，我自己就带队去湖北援建的汉源市去采访。
Wenchuan after the earthquake, I took the team to Hubei to help build the Han source city to interview.
我当作协主席共十一年，并没有遇到什么为难的事。
I have been chairman of the Association for eleven years, and there has been no difficulty.
即使有，我自己可以承担和解决。
If there is, I can take it and solve it myself.
其实作协的同事们都和我关系不错，有些人是我看着他们长大的。
In fact, the co-workers are good relations with me, some people are I watched them grow up.
毕竟我到作协已经有三十年了。
After all, I have been working together for thirty years.
中国新闻周刊：你担任湖北省作协主席期间，做过哪些让自己自豪的事情？现在回顾当初担任湖北省作协主席这段经历，又有哪些遗憾？方方：我没觉得自己要做什么让自己自豪的事，但让同事自豪的事多的是。
During your presidency of the Hubei Provincial Cooperative Association, what made you proud? Looking back on your experience as chairman of the Hubei Provincial Cooperative Association, what regrets? Fang Fang: I don't think I have to do anything to make myself proud.
我最遗憾的是没有能帮到诗人余秀华。
I most regret that I have not been able to help the poet Yu Xiuhua.
我一直希望她能调到作协来，这样她的生活会安定一些。
I had been hoping that she would be transferred to the association so that her life would be more secure.
虽然我做了很多努力。
Although I've made a lot of efforts.
但是，在作协，看上去，我是主席，实际上我也人微言轻。
But, in concert, it seems that I am the chairman, in fact I am also a slight.
值班编辑：罗晓兰封面报道之三《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Xiaolan Luo cover story 3, "Wuhan Jianzheng - how we race against the epidemic" (composed of 5 stories) click the following figure, one click order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访作家方方：保持自己的诚实和正义感，这是必须的。
Interview with writer Fang Fang: Maintain your sense of honesty and justice, which is a must.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专访作家方方：保持自己的诚实和正义感，这是必须的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; to maintain his sense of honesty and justice.
var msg_desc = "​“我根本不是一个关注公共事务的人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I'm not a public man at all.
但我会关注民生和世道”";。
But I will pay attention to Romeo and Ritual Ritual.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
