“她不怕我们！”被刷屏的湛江，这样对待湖北籍旅客。
"She is not afraid of us!" by the screen Zhanjiang, such treatment of Hubei tourists.
梁金宏、甘笠男等。
Liang Jinhong, Bonin Man, etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
“我们说好，以后这个群不解散怎么样？”“好！疫情无情人有情，徐闻来结缘，永不解散！”文 | 梁金宏、甘笠男、韩凤兰 编辑 |小豆最近广东湛江徐闻县超市里的老干妈和牛栏山白酒突然成了热销货，它们被志愿者装进最大号塑料胶袋，沉甸甸的一袋又一袋送往华通酒店。
"We agreed that the group will not be disbanded in the future?" "Good! The merciless epidemic never dissolves!" & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45
徐闻县位于中国大陆最南端，通过琼州海峡与海南岛相望，是途径海南的必经之地。
Located at the southernmost tip of mainland China, Xu Wenxian looks across the Qiongzhou Strait to Hainan Island.
徐闻县位于中国大陆最南端，是“汉代海上丝绸之路的始发港”。
Located at the southernmost tip of mainland China, Xu Wenxian was the "port of origin of the maritime Silk Road in Han Dynasty."
1月25日开始，海口暂停湖北旅客上岛，大批过路的武汉人滞留在了这座南方小城里。
January 25, Haikou suspension of Hubei tourists on the island, a large number of passers-by in Wuhan stayed in this small southern city.
进退两难，四处碰“壁”陈明一家住在武汉光谷一带，与疫情源头华南海鲜批发市场隔着一条长江。
Dilemma, the "wall" around the Chen Ming family living in Wuhan Guanggu area, and the source of the outbreak of South China seafood wholesale market across a Yangtze River.
1月17日，陈明一家离开武汉时，关于新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的报道不多，“当时没说这个病毒会人传人，所以我们都没太在意。
When the Chen family left Wuhan on January 17, there were few reports of a new coronavirus contracting pneumonia. "There was no suggestion that the virus would spread from person to person, so we didn't pay much attention to it.
”他们一家七口分批出发，旅行路线是先去广州探亲，然后自驾去海南过春节。
The seven-member family set off in batches, travelling first to Guangzhou to visit family members and then to Hainan for the Spring Festival.
大年初一，陈明一家离开广州，开车来到徐闻县，打算从码头坐轮船到海南。
On New Year's Day, Chen Ming's family left Guangzhou and drove to Xuwen County, intending to take a ship from the dock to Hainan.
“今年的年初一跟往常不一样，一整天都在下雨”，他们来到徐闻县已经是晚上10点，一家人都有些疲惫了，决定先在徐闻住上一晚。
"The first day of the year is different from usual, it's raining all day." They came to Xuwen County at 10 p. m. The family was a little tired.
此时，武汉已经封城，疫情凶猛，鄂A车、武汉人一夜间成了不受欢迎的群体。
At this time, Wuhan has been closed, the fierce disease, Hubei A car, Wuhan overnight became an unwelcome group.
陈明找了一家酒店，前台听到他们是湖北来的，拒绝他们入住，要他们去华通酒店住。
Chen Ming found a hotel, the front desk heard that they were from Hubei, refused them to stay, and asked them to stay in Huatong Hotel.
陈明在地图上搜索酒店的位置，却没有找着。
Chen Ming searched the map for the location of the hotel, but could not find it.
于是，陈明打算去港口瞧瞧。
So Chen Ming decided to go to the harbor to see.
路上，一位朋友打电话过来说，海口那边的湖北武汉人都被集中隔离了。
On the way, a friend called to say that the people of Hubei Wuhan on the other side of Haikou had been isolated.
妻子杨莉担心，与其他新近离开湖北的旅客集中隔离，万一被感染了怎么办。
His wife, Yang Li, worries about concentrating with other tourists who have recently left Hubei in case they get infected.
无可奈何，一家人又折回镇上，陈明想起在广州时住过的酒店，仍在每天打电话跟踪他们有没有发热、咳嗽症状，说不定有机会。
In desperation, the family returned to the town, and Chen Ming remembered the hotel he had stayed at in Guangzhou, still making phone calls every day to check for signs of fever and coughing, and perhaps an opportunity.
但打电话过去，酒店已经拒绝湖北武汉籍旅客入住，并再三地表示道歉。
But call in the past, the hotel has refused to Hubei Wuhan residents to stay, and repeatedly expressed apologies.
家乡病毒来势汹汹，异乡的恐慌、拒绝也是意料之中。
Hometown virus is aggressive, foreign panic, rejection is also expected.
杨莉告诉南都周刊：“如果我们当时知道疫情会这么严重，我们也愿意留下来跟武汉人民共进退。
"If we had known it would be so serious, we would have stayed with the Wuhan people," Yang told Nandu Weekly.
谁都有老人、小孩，都会担心。
Anyone with an old man or a child will worry.
”陈明一家最终接受了被集中隔离的现实，他们想去海口隔离。
The Chen family finally accepted the reality of being concentrated in isolation, and they wanted to go to Haikou to quarantine.
26日凌晨1点，陈明驱车回到码头，码头附近有一名医生，医生让他们别去海口，说那边武汉来的人都被隔离了，其中还发现了很多发热的病人。
At 1 a.m. on the 26th, Chen Ming drove back to the dock. There was a doctor near the dock. The doctor told them not to go to Haikou.
一家人的情绪低落到谷底，“进也不是，退也不是，我们第一次感到这么无助。
The family's spirits sank to the bottom. "It wasn't going in, it wasn't going back, it was the first time we felt so helpless.
”打算去三亚装芒果的货车司机黄爱，也被迫滞留徐闻，他来自湖北襄阳，1月17日就来到了徐闻县。
Huang Ai, a lorry driver planning to go to Sanya to dress mangoes, was also forced to stay in Xu Wen, who came from Xiangyang, Hubei Province, and arrived in Xu Wenxian on January 17.
刚到徐闻的时候，黄爱还没听说疫情的事，后来看到了新闻报道，当时只觉得这像流感，不会很严重。
Just arrived Xu Wen, Huang Ai did not hear about the outbreak, and later saw the news, only to feel that it was like the flu, not very serious.
等到武汉封城，他才发觉了事情的严重性。
When Wuhan closed the city, he realized the seriousness of the matter.
黄爱在木兰大道附近停下车，吃住都在车上， 22日他在朋友圈晒了自己在车上做饭的视频。
Huang Ai in Mulan Boulevard near the car, eating and living in the car, 22, he in the circle of friends bask in his own cooking video.
他的车牌也是湖北的，但没有被举报过。
His license plate was from Hubei, too, but it was never reported.
“湛江滞留大量武汉车”与其他地方一样，湛江这座不起眼的三线城市，在最初迎来这群特殊的客人时，也是惊慌失措的。
Like other places, Zhanjiang, an obscure third-tier city, was stunned to welcome its first special guests.
一些市民发现自家楼下、马路旁停泊了许多鄂牌车辆，纷纷拍照发朋友圈，大呼：“见到的湖北来湛江的车比我3年见到的还要多，重灾区在万达和金沙湾！”。
Some citizens found their downstairs, the roadside parked a lot of Hubei cars, photographed friends, shouted: "see Hubei Zhanjiang more cars than I see in three years, the worst affected areas in Wanda and Jinsha Bay!"
微博也炸开了锅，出现“湛江涉鄂车辆”、“湛江大量武汉人”等热门话题，有网友称大量湖北车辆准备去海南，海南封岛导致他们滞留在湛江市区、徐闻、雷州一带。
Weibo also blew up the pot, "Zhanjiang Hubei vehicles", "Zhanjiang a large number of Wuhan people" and other hot topics, some netizens said that a large number of Hubei vehicles ready to go to Hainan Island, Hainan Island led them to stay in Zhanjiang City, Xu Wen, Lei Zhou area.
微博上“湛江涉鄂车辆”成为热门话题。
"Zhanjiang E-E vehicle" has become a hot topic on Weibo.
疾病预防控制中心的电话在微信群中传播。
CDC calls spread through the microphone community.
湛江疾控中心电话号码在微信、微博广泛传播，亲朋好友纷纷互相告知看到鄂牌车辆要赶紧向湛江疾控中心“举报”。
Zhanjiang CDC phone number in micro-letter, Weibo widely disseminated, friends and relatives have told each other to see EB vehicles to quickly "report" to Zhanjiang CDC.
一时之间，湛江全市如临大敌，市民们戒备森严，时刻准备在街上截获鄂A车辆。
For a while, Zhanjiang city as the enemy, the citizens are heavily guarded, ready to intercept Hubei A vehicles in the street.
25日，徐闻县新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室发出告示：自2020年1月26日12时起，对来自湖北尤其是武汉的从海南过海途径徐闻的旅客进行集中医学健康观察14天，地点在徐闻县徐海大道华通酒店。
On January 25, 2007, the Office of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Xuwen County issued a notice: From 12: 00 a.m. on January 26, 2020, intensive medical health observation will be conducted on passengers from Hubei Province, especially Wuhan, who crossed the sea from Hainan Province.
此时，陈明一家人已经在车上待了十几个小时，大家都疲惫不堪。
At this time, Chen Ming's family has been in the car for more than 10 hours, everyone tired.
绝境中的微光，“她不怕我们”“不能让小孩和老人继续在车里过夜”，陈明决定拨打110求助。
"She's not afraid of us" "Can't let the kids and old people stay in the car overnight," Chen decided to call 110 for help.
经过警察指引，他终于找到了华通酒店。
After police guidance, he finally found the Huatong Hotel.
陈明回忆，当时前台还有一个值晚班的工作人员，是位年轻女孩。
Chen recalls that there was a night shift worker at the front desk. She was a young girl.
女孩告诉他们还有空房间可住，还问他们吃饭了没有，留了几份盒饭在前台。
The girl told them there was room to stay and asked if they had eaten. She left a few boxes of rice at the front desk.
对于陈明一家而言，女孩的热情，在他们屡遭拒绝之后，显得极其温暖和珍贵。
To Chen Ming's family, the girl's enthusiasm, after their repeated rejection, appears extremely warm and precious.
“她不怕我们”，杨莉为此感动。
"She's not afraid of us," Yang Li said.
得知华通酒店成为湖北旅客集中观察点，酒店不少员工担心被感染新型冠状病毒，都不愿意留下来，那安置服务湖北旅客的工作谁来做呢？带头报名协助安置旅客的是许程聪，大家都亲切地称呼她许姐。
It is known that Huatong Hotel has become a focus of visitors to Hubei, many of the hotel staff worried about being infected with the new coronavirus, do not want to stay, so who will do the resettlement services Hubei travellers?
许姐今年50岁，是个湖南辣妹子，25年前来到湛江做生意，徐闻县是她的第二故乡。
Xu, a 50-year-old sister from Hunan province, came to Zhanjiang to do business 25 years ago. Xu Wenxian is her second hometown.
25日晚上十点多，许姐看到徐闻县志愿者服务联合会微信群发来消息：紧急召集10名志愿者参与湖北旅客的安置服务工作。
More than 10 pm on the evening of 25, Xu saw Xu Wenxian volunteer service federation sent a message: emergency call 10 volunteers to participate in Hubei tourists resettlement services.
她没有丝毫犹豫，次日一大早，许姐志愿者协会里的4位志愿者到华通酒店报道。
She did not hesitate, the next morning, Xu Jie Volunteers Association of four volunteers to Huatong Hotel report.
另一边，通知、指引湖北旅客入住酒店的工作也继续同步进行着。
On the other hand, the work of informing and guiding Hubei tourists to stay in the hotel also continued in parallel.
26号下午3点左右，两辆警车停在了黄爱的车旁，通知他到华通酒店居住。
Around 3 p.m. on the 26th, two police cars stopped by Huang Ai's car and informed him to stay at Huatong Hotel.
黄爱开着货车来到了酒店门口，旁边停车场停满了鄂牌小轿车，已经停不下大货车。
Huang Ai arrived at the door of the hotel in a lorry. The parking lot next to it was full of EB cars.
无奈之下，黄爱开车绕着县城转了几圈，在路边随便找了个地方应付了一晚。
But, Huang Ai drove around the county a few times, in the roadside casually find a place to deal with the night.
第二天，经过县政府协调，最终找到一块地方供停大货车，黄爱这才放下心来，坐上了专用大巴，入住华通酒店。
The next day, after coordination with the county government, finally found a place to park a large truck, Huang Ai relaxed, took a special bus, check into Huatong hotel.
就这样，坐落在徐海大道上，离海安码头不到4公里的华通酒店，成为150多位湖北籍旅客的落脚地。
In this way, located on Xuhai Boulevard, less than 4 kilometers from the Haian Pier Huatong Hotel, more than 150 Hubei tourists settled.
在陈明和黄爱之后，还陆续有湖北籍旅客涌来。
After Chen Ming and Huang Ai, Hubei tourists also poured in.
2月1日，南都周刊再次询问徐闻的定点酒店情况，看到了这样一份公告。
On February 1, Nandu Weekly again asked Xu Wen about his designated hotel and saw such a notice.
志愿者们撑起的定点酒店刚开始，志愿者都手忙脚乱的，谁也没干过酒店服务员的活。
At the start of the hotel, the volunteers were all in a hurry, and no one had ever worked as a hotel attendant.
更换床单被套、登记入住信息、调剂床位、安排三餐、打扫酒店大堂·····不到一个小时就汗如雨下，呼出的热气让口罩变得湿漉漉的。
Change bedspread coverings, check in information, transfer beds, arrange meals, clean the lobby of the hotel... It rained in less than an hour and the exhaled heat made the mask moist.
志愿者们在酒店前台忙碌。
Volunteers were busy at the front desk of the hotel.
（图片由受访者提供）前台的电话响个不停，有看到徐闻县告示来核实确认的，有多次被其他酒店婉拒的湖北旅客，也有非湖北来询问住店的。
The phone rang unceasingly at the front desk, and Xu Wen County notices were seen to verify the confirmation that there were many times refused by other hotels in Hubei, but also non-Hubei to inquire about the hotel.
不少旅客已经奔波好几个地方，一直没有找到愿意接收湖北人的酒店，心里积了不少委屈，只盼望着早些离开。
Many passengers have been several places, has not found willing to accept Hubei people's hotel, in the heart accumulated a lot of grievances, just looking forward to leaving early.
志愿者阿佑告诉记者 ，这些天他做得最多的其实是说服工作，“既来之，则安之”几乎成了口头禅。
Volunteer Ah You told reporters that he did the most these days is in fact the work of persuasion, "the future, the rest" has become almost a mantra.
湖北人爱吃辣，许姐趁着中午的空隙，回家炒了一大锅的红辣椒，半小时不到又开车赶回去帮忙，“每天这么来来回回，太浪费时间了，我回家收拾一下，今晚就搬到酒店去住。
Hubei people love to eat spicy, Xu sister took advantage of the midday break, home fried a large pot of red pepper, less than half an hour driving back to help, "every day so back and forth, too much waste of time, I went home to clean up, tonight moved to a hotel.
”手上忙活，眼睛也闲不下来。
His hands were busy, and his eyes were not free.
名为“湖北家人们：有困难我们一起扛”的微信群一刻不停地弹出消息：电视开不了？房间怎么收不到WiFi信号？垃圾袋还有吗？换床单要联系谁？到了晚上，群里又有人发来消息：“七楼房间没热水”，“水温很低，我们还有两个孩子，洗不了。
"Hubei family: difficulties we carry together" micro-group constantly pop up: TV can not open? Room how can not receive WiFi signal? garbage bag? Who to contact? At night, the group sent a message: "no hot water in the seventh floor room," "very low temperature, we still have two children, can not wash.
” 值晚班的阿佑挨个上门解决问题。
"He walked up to the door one by one to solve problems.
“其实我们哪懂怎么去修（热水器），但我们人一定会到，让他们体会到我们是很认真地在对待他们的诉求，后来发现，他们只是水龙头开反了。
"We don't know how to fix [the water heater], but we're going to be there and let them know that we're taking their claims very seriously, and then they just turn the tap upside down.
”阿佑每天和志愿者们忙得团团转，并在微信群里不断地解决新的需求：“你们谁还要老干妈的?”“307要一瓶。
You and the volunteers alike walked around every day, constantly addressing new needs in the microphone community: "Who else would you like a bottle of?
”“给我带两瓶，谢谢！”“还要两瓶牛栏山，42度的。
"Two bottles for me, thank you!" "Two bottles of cowslip, 42 degrees.
”占据群聊天主要内容的，是湖北住客们的所需商品清单：抽纸一提、奶粉一罐、香皂两个、黑人牙膏一盒、医用酒精两瓶、洗脸盆两个······湖北旅客在群里接龙需求物资清单。
Hubei residents were given a list of items they needed: a tissue paper, a milk powder can, two soaps, a box of black toothpaste, two bottles of medical alcohol and two washbasins.
以房间为单位，每户派代表依次接龙，罗列今日所需物资。
Take the room as the unit, each household sends the representative to connect the dragon in turn, enumerates today's material needs.
清单很长，用手指下滑屏四五回才能翻完，客人需求最多的是口罩和消毒水 。
The list is long, with the finger slide screen 45 times to turn over, the most requested is the mask and disinfectant.
相约不解散的“湖北家人”群除了吃、住这些琐事，湖北旅客最关心的问题还是：待满14天后就可以回家了吗？到其他地方后又被要求隔离怎么办？经徐闻县政府各部门研究，被集中观察的湖北旅客在定点酒店待满14天，并且期间没有出现发热、咳嗽等疑似感染症状，就能领到徐闻县政府开出的健康证明。
Besides eating and living in these trivial matters, Hubei travellers are mainly concerned about whether they can go home after 14 days or be asked to be quarantined when they go to other placements.After studying by the government departments of Xuwen County, Hubei travellers under observation stayed at designated hotels for 14 days without any suspected symptoms of infection such as fever and cough.
志愿者将这个好消息告诉大家，下一刻，群里就被“太好了！”和竖起大拇指的表情包刷了屏。
Volunteers will tell the good news, the next moment, the group was "wonderful!" and thumbs up the expression of the package brush screen.
吃下定心丸的旅客接着开始思考：不能出酒店，漫长的两周该如何度过？有人提出打牌的主意，大家纷纷附和，请志愿者逛超市的时候买上几副扑克牌，顺带捎上五、六瓶42度的牛栏山白酒和十来包烟。
Then the diner began to think: Can't go out of the hotel, how to spend the long fortnight? Some people put forward the idea of playing cards, everyone joined in, invited volunteers to go to the supermarket to buy a few pairs of poker, and to bring along five or six 42-degree bottles of Niuguan liquor and a dozen packs of cigarettes.
住客中还有不少是带着孩子的，有的正在上小学，但这几天看电视、玩手机严重超时，家长们担心孩子玩散了心。
Many of the residents are with children, some are in primary school, but these days television, mobile phone play a serious overtime, parents are worried that their children play with the heart.
刘文夫妇上传的小学数学试卷刘文夫妇找来电子版小学数学期末综合达标测试卷，并请志愿者帮忙打印，其他家长看到后也在群里发言：“可以给我们也打印一份吗？”刘文夫妇带着两个孩子1月16日从武汉出发，夫妻二人均从事体育教培事业，对儿子们的教育尤为重视。
Liu Wen and his wife upload the primary school math paper Liu Wen and his wife to find an electronic final math final standards test paper, and asked volunteers to help print it, other parents see it also said: "Can we print a copy?" Liu Wen and his two children started from Wuhan on January 16, both engaged in physical education and training, with particular emphasis on the education of their sons.
每天早上九点半到十一点半，是刘文给孩子们讲故事的时间；吃完饭后，她还会带儿子们做活动操，帮助消化，毕竟“这几天被关得够狠的”。
From 9: 30 to 11: 30 every morning, Liu Wen tells the children stories. After dinner, she takes her sons to do exercises and helps them digest them.
刘文惊喜地发现，大儿子变懂事了。
Liuwen was pleasantly surprised to find that the eldest son had become sensible.
大儿子以前爱和弟弟争风吃醋，但是在昨天，刘文喂完小儿子早餐，准备自己吃饭的时候，回头一看，大儿子正有模有样地给弟弟讲起了“大米的由来”，两个孩子一问一答，刘文觉得这个画面很珍贵。
The eldest son used to be jealous of his younger brother, but yesterday, Liu Wen fed his little son breakfast and prepared his own dinner. When he looked back, the elder son was telling his younger brother about the origin of rice.
志愿者阿佑很理解酒店的湖北住客，“毕竟他们不是专业人员，面对未知的恐惧我们也能理解。
Volunteers A You very understand the hotel's Hubei resident, "after all, they are not professionals, we can understand the fear of the unknown.
我们在这里搞志愿服务，邻居也告诫我们要当心”。
We volunteer here, and our neighbors tell us to be careful.
到南都周刊采访时，住在徐闻华通酒店的人没有出现感染症状，县政府也给志愿者送来了10套防护服。
During an interview with Nandu Weekly, no one living in the hotel in Xuwen Huatong showed any signs of infection, and the county government sent 10 suits to the volunteers.
当地人送到酒店的物资。
Material delivered to a hotel by locals.
（图片由受访者提供）许姐这些志愿者的事传开后，本地人也送来水果、蔬菜、鸡蛋、啤酒还有各种口味的方便面，大大小小近五十箱，排成一排，摞得高高的，酒店前台都被遮了大半。
As the story spread, local people brought fruit, vegetables, eggs, beer and a variety of different flavors of instant noodles, nearly fifty boxes in all sizes, piled high, with the front desk of the hotel almost half covered.
人和车因为疫情受困，大货车司机黄爱最担心的就是，家里需要每个月还房贷4000多和车贷13000多，妻子全职在家带两个孩子，他们没有存款，自己解除14天隔离后，要先去哪里赚钱。
Huang Ai, a truck driver, worried that his family needed to pay back more than 4,000 mortgages and more than 13,000 cars a month, and that his wife had two children at home full-time.
27日晚上22:48，睡不着的黄爱坐在房间的床上，用手机敲下一行字，发到微信群里：“非常感谢所有志愿者的帮助，我来自湖北襄阳，我们襄阳城永远欢迎你们疫后的光临。
At 22: 48 p. m., the sleepless Wong sat on the bed of her room, typed the next line with her cell phone and sent it to the microphone group: "Thanks very much to all the volunteers.
”志愿者阿佑提议：“我们说好，以后这个群不解散怎么样？”“不解散！”“好！疫情无情人有情，徐闻来结缘，永不解散！”（应受访者要求，文中陈明、杨莉均为化名）来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
Volunteer Ah You suggested, "We agreed that the group would not be disbanded in the future?" "Do not dissolve!" "Good! The heartless people of the epidemic have love, Xu heard of marriage, never disband!"
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“她不怕我们！”被刷屏的湛江，这样对待湖北籍旅客。
"She is not afraid of us!" by the screen Zhanjiang, such treatment of Hubei tourists.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“她不怕我们！”被刷屏的湛江，这样对待湖北籍旅客";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "She's not afraid of us!" by painted Zhanjiang, who treated Hubei passenger & quot;; & quot;
var msg_desc = "他们本打算自驾去海口过年";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; They intended to drive to Haikou at New Year's Eve & quot;;;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
