日行1000公里，“人肉”配送，一家民营医院的战“疫”实录。
1000 km a day, "human flesh" distribution, a private hospital war "epidemic" records.
徐佳、陶宁宁。
Xu Jia and Tao Ning Ning.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
30天里，济和医院的故事高度浓缩成为武汉城市命运的一个生动侧写武汉济和医院的命运在1月23日那天分叉了。
For 30 days, the story of Jihe He Hospital was highly condensed into a vivid description of the fate of Wuhan Ji and Hospital, which split on January 23.
小年夜，也是武汉发出“封城”公告的同一天，这家位于武汉蔡甸区的非公医疗二级综合医院被征用为新冠肺炎患者定点救治医院，成为武汉不到10家的首批定点医院中的一员，继而被推到了一场全球瞩目的公共医疗事件的最前线。
On the same day that Wuhan issued the "closure" proclamation, the non-public medical general hospital in Cai Den, Wuhan, was requisitioned as a designated hospital for patients with pneumonia, becoming one of the first 10 designated hospitals in Wuhan, and was pushed to the forefront of a high-profile public health event.
今天，距离武汉“封城”刚好一个月。
Today, Wuhan is just a month away from the "closure".
30天里，济和医院的故事高度浓缩，成为武汉城市命运的一个生动侧写。
In 30 days, the story of Ji He Hospital is highly condensed into a vivid description of the fate of Wuhan city.
枢纽内科医生晏飞还记得当晚的状况：100多位病人被救护车一趟趟送来济和，很快把感染区200张病床中的绝大部分填满，医护人员在刚刚改建完成的隔离病区中疲惫奔走。
Anchor, the hub physician, remembers the situation that night: more than 100 patients were rushed to the hospital by ambulance, quickly filling most of the 200 beds in the infected area, and medical staff ran tired in the recently renovated quarantined area.
呼吸机及高流量氧等关键设备出现了相当大的紧缺，只能满足一个病区的需求；HIS（Hospital Information System）录入也没能跟上，医生们只能抓起纸笔快速抄写医嘱。
Critical equipment, such as respirators and high-flow oxygen, is in considerable short supply and can only meet the needs of one sick area; the HIS (Hospital Information System) entry has not kept pace, and doctors have had to grab pen and paper to copy doctor's orders quickly.
在骤然超负荷运转的医院里，奔走一天的医护人员身心疲惫此时，济和医院大部分的医护人员已经放假，只剩留守的50余名医护人员。
At a hospital overrun by the sudden overloading of the hospital, the majority of the hospital's medical staff have been on vacation, leaving only about 50 health care workers.
防护设备也捉襟见肘，库存里只有500件不能满足隔离区要求的普通防护服，N95以上的高级别医用口罩严重缺乏。
Protective equipment was also overstretched, with only 500 items of general protective clothing that did not meet the requirements of the area of separation in stock, and high-level medical masks over N95 were seriously lacking.
一个医生如果24小时连轴转，白天需要1-2件防护服，夜班需要2-3件，500件防护服就只够50余名医护人员5天所需。
A doctor who has a 24-hour rotation needs 1-2 protective clothing during the day, 2-3 night shifts, and 500 suits for just over 50 medical personnel for 5 days.
医用物资、专业医护人员双重匮乏，这是1月23日全武汉乃至全湖北所面临的普遍状况。
The shortage of medical materials and medical professionals is a common situation in Wuhan and even in Hubei Province on January 23.
但济和医院略为不同的是，它是复星医疗集团旗下的一员，身后是中国代表性的全球化企业之一——复星国际（后文简称“复星”）。
But unlike the hospital, it is a member of Fuxing Medical Group, behind one of China's most representative global companies, Fuxing International.
此时，复星的上海总部，一场大的湖北驰援计划在同步落棋和推进。
At this point, Fuxing's Shanghai headquarters, a large Hubei rescue plan in synchronization with the chess and push.
第二天，1月24日上午9:46，复星国际董事长郭广昌发动了全球医疗物资调配计划。
The next day, Jan. 24, at 9: 46 a.m., Guo Guangchang, chairman of Fuxing International, launched a global plan to deploy medical supplies.
12小时内，已经锁定了海外20万只口罩和5万件医用级防护服。
Within 12 hours, 200,000 masks and 50,000 medical-grade suits had been targeted overseas.
全球合伙人和海外业务团队、首代系统全部动员，订单在不断增加，回国运输渠道正在打通。
Global partners and overseas business teams, the first generation of all the mobilization of the system, orders are increasing, the home transport channel is being opened.
1月24日，复星全球医疗物资调配计划启动，大额订单开始全球锁定1月25日起，复星医疗集团紧急动员旗下医院，从江苏、广东、浙江、安徽、湖南等地，抽调呼吸、急诊、重症医学、院感等专业的业务骨干，共同组建复星医疗援鄂医疗队，并于2月6日晚，作为全国非公医疗首支援鄂医疗队，抵达武汉蔡甸。
Since Jan. 25, Foxing Medical Group has mobilized its hospitals from Jiangsu, Guangdong, Zhejiang, Anhui, Hunan and other places to form a medical support team for Hubei medical team, and arrived in Cai dian on February 6 as the first national non-public medical support team.
目前，已有超过30名成员投入到蔡甸区的一线救治工作中。
At present, more than 30 members have been put into the first-line treatment work in Cai Den.
复星援鄂医疗队集结武汉与此同时，1月28日深夜，复星全球采购的首批紧急医用物资跨越9000公里，借助飞机+货车，抵达武汉。
Meanwhile, late at night on January 28, the first batch of emergency medical supplies purchased by Fuxing International crossed 9,000 kilometers and arrived in Wuhan by plane + truck.
截至2月22日零点，复星全球调配运回防护服101万件、口罩124万只、护目镜75000副、医用手套11万副，总计243.5万件医疗防护物资，另加240台呼吸机。
By midnight on February 22, Fuxing had returned 1.01 million protective suits, 1.24 million masks, 75,000 goggles and 110,000 medical gloves, totaling 2.435 million pieces of medical protection material, plus 240 respirators.
绝大部分已全部运抵疫情防控一线。
Most of them have arrived at the frontline of disease control.
1月28日凌晨，复星全球调配首批物资从法兰克福抵达上海，29日凌晨这批物资被紧急送到一线这些物资中运往湖北的大部分在济和医院汇集，又经过这个“枢纽”，点对点输送至孝感、黄冈在内12个地市的防控一线，包括协和医院、同济医院、中南医院、武汉中心医院、雷神山医院、火神山医院在内的80余家医院。
In the early morning hours of January 28, Fuxing International dispatched the first batch of materials from Frankfurt to Shanghai, which arrived in Shanghai in the early morning of the 29th. The supplies were rushed to most of the Ji-He Hospital in Hubei Province and passed through the "hub" to 12 cities, including Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan Central Hospital, Raytheon Mountain Hospital and Fire Goddess Hospital.
九省通衢的武汉，曾经是地理位置最为便捷的全国中转枢纽。
Wuhan, a thoroughfare of nine provinces, used to be the most convenient transit hub in the country.
当它按下暂停键后，像济和医院这样的支点，自发地运转起来，生长出一种顽强的韧劲。
When it pressed the pause button, such as Jiji and hospital fulcrum, spontaneous operation, the growth of a tenacious resilience.
日均行驶1000公里的救护车皮浩从来没觉得自己那么重要过。
The ambulance, which travels an average of 1,000 kilometers a day, never thought he was that important.
这位42岁的武汉人是济和医院车队队长，负责驾驶救护车。
The 42-year-old Wuhan man is the head of the Ji He Hospital convoy and drives the ambulance.
从1月24日起，这台平日仅仅在区内往返的救护车，经常日均要跑上1000公里。
Since 24 January, ambulances, which travel only within the district on weekdays, often travel 1,000 kilometres a day.
皮浩开着120疾驰送物资，“救急就是救命”1月23日武汉封城后，济和医院立马动员医护人员们返岗，但是武汉的交通几近瘫痪。
After the city was closed on January 23 in Wuhan, Ji and the hospital immediately mobilized medical personnel to return to their posts, but the traffic in Wuhan was nearly paralyzed.
汉口火车站只许出站不许进站，大部分涉及武汉的航班被取消，省内多个高速公路一日内逐一封闭……这台有着特殊通行证的救护车此时被派上了大用场。
Hankou railway station is only allowed out of the station, most of the flights involving Wuhan were canceled, the province of a number of highways within a day one by one closed... this ambulance with a special pass was put to use.
最初几天，皮浩开着它往返于孝感、黄冈、襄阳等地，一天接回来六七名医护人员。
The first few days, Pihao drove it back and forth filial piety, Huanggang, Xiangyang and other places, a day to bring back six or seven medical personnel.
而此前医院下达了命令，只要是返岗的医护人员，哪怕只有一个人，也要派车去接。
Earlier, the hospital had ordered the hospital to send a car to pick up even one of the returning paramedics.
几乎是同时，复星医疗总裁陈玉卿、复星医疗执行总裁包勤贵，以及徐州徐矿总医院呼吸科主任贾晓民分三路，于大年初一出发，各自辗转，在岳阳会合。
Almost at the same time, Xing Yuqing, Chief Executive Officer of Fu Xing Medical, Bao Qiugui, and Jia Xiaomin, the respiratory director of Xuzhou Xugong General Hospital, set off on the first day of the Lunar New Year.
从深圳恒生医院调来的一辆救护车已在岳阳等候。
An ambulance transferred from Heng Sheng Hospital in Shenzhen has been waiting in Yueyang.
会合后，三人便自驾这辆满载N95口罩、防护服等医用物资的救护车赶往武汉。
After the rendezvous, the three men drove to Wuhan in an ambulance loaded with N95 masks, protective clothing and other medical supplies.
他们不知道的是，这两台救护车在日后湖北全境的驰援中将发挥巨大的作用。
What they do not know is that these two ambulances will play a huge role in the future assistance throughout Hubei Province.
至此，仅仅两天时间，以陈玉卿和包勤贵为主的复星武汉前线指挥部在济和医院已经运转起来。
So far, just two days, Chen Yuqing and Baoqinggui-based Fuxing Wuhan Frontline Command in Ji He Hospital has become operational.
“当时还没想过要承担湖北地区医院急需物资的支援调配工作，”晚上11点，陈玉卿在电话里回忆，“我们只想着必须在一线，保护好自己的同事，也鼓励他们保护好病人。
"At the time, I didn't think about undertaking the deployment of urgently needed materials for hospitals in Hubei," Chen recalled over the telephone. "We just wanted to be on the front line, to protect our colleagues and encourage them to protect the sick.
”复星武汉前线总指挥、复星医疗集团总裁陈玉卿在搬运医疗物资这已然是一件艰巨的任务。
Chen Yuqing, head of Foxing Wuhan Frontline Command and chairman of Fuxing Medical Group, is already carrying medical supplies, an arduous task.
济和医院是一家二级医院，并不以呼吸科见长，全院只有约260名医护人员。
Chi Wo Hospital is a level II hospital, not long for respiratory department. It has only about 260 staff.
作为区级定点救治医院，它承担了救治轻重症患者的任务。
As a district-level designated treatment hospital, it took on the task of treating patients with mild and severe diseases.
济和医院内二科医生孙梦冰介绍，许多人在隔离之后，病情加重了，就直接送到这里诊疗。
Dr. Sun Mengbing, a second doctor at Chi Wo Hospital, said many people were taken directly to the hospital for treatment after their condition worsened after the quarantine.
如果转成危重症，就要立刻转往上级医院抢救。
If it becomes critically ill, it must be transferred to a higher hospital for immediate rescue.
武汉三级分层分级的防护体系中，济和这样的定点医院，起到了中转枢纽的作用。
Wuhan three-level stratified protection system, Jihe such a designated hospital, played the role of a transit hub.
在武汉3万多名的确诊病例中，轻重症患者是样本庞大的群体。
Of the more than 30,000 confirmed cases in Wuhan, patients with mild and severe illnesses are a large sample.
贾晓民是经历过2003年抗击SARS的专家，到了济和医院，久经沙场的他也吃了一惊：病人数量太多——200张病床，从第一天收治到目前为止，始终保持病床满负荷的状态。
Jia Xiaomin, an expert in the fight against SARS in 2003, arrived at Ji He Hospital and was surprised by the number of patients - 200 beds - who have remained at full capacity since the first day of treatment.
最初的阶段，孙梦冰一个人一天须负责13位住院病人。
In the early stages, Sun Mengbing was responsible for 13 inpatients a day.
贾晓民还记得初来济和医院时所见到的慌乱场面。
Jia remembered the panicky scene he saw at the beginning of the Jia and hospital.
大多数医生都不是呼吸科专业出身，外科、骨科、甚至是妇产科的医生们临阵上战。
Most doctors are not breathing professionals. Surgeons, orthopaedic surgeons, even obstetricians and gynecologists are fighting.
他们很多不具备防控知识，有的鞋套浅了，不能完全包裹身体；有的戴了双层口罩，“多余的，还难受”。
Many do not have the knowledge of prevention and control, some shoes shallower than the body; some wear a double mask, "superfluous, uncomfortable."
年轻护士胸闷喘不过气，一度怀疑自己被感染了，其实只是戴口罩时间太长导致缺氧。
Young nurses breathless chest, once suspected that they were infected, in fact only wearing a mask for too long resulting in hypoxia.
在恐慌和人手不足的双重压力中，他们穿着防护服在25度的室温中每日工作10余个小时。
Under the combined pressure of panic and understaffing, they worked more than 10 hours a day in protective clothing at room temperature of 25 degrees.
护目镜卡在脸上，一取下来，显出深深的勒痕。
The goggles got stuck in his face and took them off, showing deep strangulation.
医护人员能不能跟上？医疗物资能不能跟上？全武汉都在发出疑问。
Can medical staff keep up? Can medical supplies keep up? Wuhan is asking.
那些防护服的字体歪歪扭扭的武汉济和医院医护人员背影皮浩不会忘记1月28日深夜的那个画面。
The crooked nature of those suits and the back of hospital staff Pippy Hao won't forget the late-night scene on January 28.
武汉蔡甸高速公路路口，他和包勤贵要去接应复星从上海运抵前线的第一批医疗物资。
Wuhan Cai dian Expressway junction, he and Baoqin expensive to respond to the first shipments of medical supplies from Shanghai to the front line.
1月26日晚上，复星动员全球力量采购到的1万个口罩运抵上海。
On the night of January 26, 10,000 masks procured by Fuxing mobilized global forces arrived in Shanghai.
20余个小时后，它们即将经由上海-武汉900公里的货运生命线，输送至前方。
More than 20 hours later, they will be transported to the front via the 900-kilometer freight lifeline from Shanghai to Wuhan.
此后的每一天，它将永不间断。
And every day thereafter, it will never cease.
那是一个风大雨大的夜晚，气温刚过零度。
It was a stormy night and the temperature was just above zero.
雨水打在车窗上，形成一种刺耳的声响。
The rain was beating against the window, making a harsh noise.
两人按照要求把救护车停在检测站，徒步赶往服务区等候两辆沪牌、长至17.5米的红色箱式大货车。
As required, the two men parked the ambulance at the station and hurried to the service area on foot, waiting for the two red trunks, 17.5 metres long, of the Shanghai plates.
第一辆车错过了路口，皮浩赶快开车，追了几十公里领了回来。
The first car missed the intersection, Pi Hao quickly drove, followed by dozens of kilometers to take back.
天上下着冻雨，公路停摆。
The sky was freezing rain and the road was stopped.
“好像武汉的空气中都是病毒”，皮浩闪出这个念头。
"It's as if the air in Wuhan is full of viruses," Pihao thought.
然后他眼见着包勤贵在雨中用手机打了一个小时电话，引导车过来，也沟通司机的防护。
Then he saw Baoqin expensive in the rain with a cell phone for an hour to guide the car over, also communicate the driver's protection.
约凌晨2点，两个集装箱的物资终于在济和医院卸货。
At about 2 a.m., the two containers were finally unloaded at the Jai and hospital.
大货车消毒完毕，立即返回上海。
After disinfecting the truck, return to Shanghai immediately.
济和医院分为两个区域。
The hospital is divided into two areas.
1-3区在“清洁”的西楼，4-8区在“污染”的东楼，也是新冠肺炎患者隔离病区。
Areas 1-3 are in the "Clean" West Building, Areas 4-8 are in the "Contaminated" East Building, which is also the isolation area for New Crown Pneumonia patients.
一箱箱的物资就被搬进了西楼仓库，因为储藏空间不够，很多堆放在了门诊大厅。
Boxes of supplies were moved into the West Wing warehouse because there was not enough storage space and many were piled up in the outpatient lobby.
1月31日下午5点，40岁的岳阳广济医院院感科主任吴琼抵达济和医院时，恰好看到复星的物资车辆停在医院门口。
On January 31 at 5: 00 pm, 40-year-old Yueyang Guangji Hospital hospital sensory director Wu Qiong arrived in Ji He Hospital, just saw the material vehicles of the compound parked in front of the hospital.
一股暖流突然从胃部涌了上来，“就是安心的感觉”，他笑嘻嘻地说。
A warm current sprang up from his stomach, "a feeling of relief," he said with a smile.
院感科的主要职责是防止院内病人、医护人员产生交叉感染。
The Department's main function is to prevent cross-infection among hospital patients and medical staff.
陶飞，佛山禅城中心医院的ICU专家，到济和医院的第一件事就是去物资楼侦查。
Tao Fei, an ICU expert at Foshan Zen City Central Hospital, went to Ji He Hospital to investigate the first thing.
重症科出身的他最关心高流量氧疗设备的配备问题，这是救治重症新冠肺炎患者的指标性设备，省内多处医院告急。
He is concerned about the provision of high-flow oxygen therapy equipment, which is the guideline equipment to treat patients with severe crown pneumonia, many hospitals in the province are in urgent need.
当被告知有20台，上海采购过来的，刚刚就位，“顿时心里有底了”。
When told that there are 20, Shanghai procurement over, just sitting down, "immediately the bottom of my heart."
佛山禅医ICU主任陶飞（右二）与医疗队另两位专家为患者会诊物资充裕有时候也是一种“甜蜜”的负担。
Tao Fei (second right), director of Buddhist monk ICU, and two other medical team experts are sometimes a "sweet" burden on patient consultation.
陶飞每天拿到的防护服都是最高等级的标准，且款式不重样，有的裤边镶着黄道，有的黑道或红道。
The protective clothing Tao Fei gets every day is the highest class standard, and the style is not the same, some trousers with the zodiac, some mafia or red road.
标签上的字体也每每不一，他认识英文、日文、法文，另外还有一些歪歪扭扭的字母难以辨别。
The type on the label also often varies, he knows English, Japanese, French, there are also some crooked letters difficult to identify.
差异需要适应，比如有的拉链很高，会卡到脖子；有的在拉链之余还须用不干胶封口；还有一件因密闭性太好，以至于把整张脸都包裹起来，只露出眼睛。
Some have a high zipper that sticks to the neck, some have to be sealed with a sticky tape over the zipper, and one is so tightly sealed that the whole face is wrapped up to reveal only the eyes.
“防护服里面还有帽子和口罩，就像大热天穿了三层厚衣服。
"There are hats and masks inside, like three layers of thick clothes on a hot day.
”他事后问询才知道，这是复星在第一时间从全球20余个国家快速采购到的医用级防护服。
It was only after questioning that he learned that this was the first medical-grade protective clothing that Fuxing had procured quickly from more than 20 countries around the world.
那些歪歪扭扭的字母有可能是印度文或葡萄牙文，对应他们的采购地。
The crooked letters may be in Hindi or Portuguese, corresponding to their place of purchase.
各国运抵济和医院的防护服，统一写着：复星全球物资调配我的3个病人出院了复星医疗精英的加入，核心目标只有一个：通过早期治疗，不至于让患者发展到重症。
The protective clothing that has arrived at Ji He Hospital in various countries has the following unified message: Three patients from Fuxing Global Distribution have been discharged from hospital. The core goal is only one: through early treatment, the patient will not develop into serious illness.
新冠病毒很狡猾，它会致使病情在一个相对稳定的时期后突然恶化，“把握节点尤为关键”，陶飞解释。
The new crown virus is cunning, causing it to deteriorate suddenly after a relatively stable period of time, "holding the node is especially critical," Tao explained.
针对性的培训是必要的。
Targeted training is necessary.
贾晓民抵达济和医院的头几天，主抓的就是让全院以最快速度填补呼吸科的基本知识。
In the first few days of his arrival at Jia Xiaomin's hospital, the main task was to have the hospital fill the basic knowledge of respiration as quickly as possible.
每天晚上，他从呼吸道的感染、肺炎的基本表现、影像上怎么鉴别、怎么查血项、怎么做血项分析等展开，逐一剖解诊治新冠肺炎的方法，明确氧分压和氧饱和度是重点关注的指标，让大部分从其他科室抽调的医护人员有了聚焦。
Every night, he started from respiratory tract infections, the basic manifestations of pneumonia, how to identify on the image, how to check blood items, how to do blood item analysis, etc., one by one, the diagnosis and treatment of New Crown Pneumonia, oxygen partial pressure and oxygen saturation are the key indicators of concern, bringing into focus most of the medical staff drawn from other sections.
陶飞在治病救人之余，最重要的工作是梳理病例，观察本院危重症病人的发展史。
The most important work of Tao Fei is to comb the cases and observe the development history of critically ill patients in our hospital.
ICU有一句名言：没有忽然变化的病情，只有病情的变化被突然发现。
ICU has a famous saying: there is no sudden change in the disease, only the change in the disease was suddenly discovered.
是否及时地在前期发现病变征兆，决定了一个鲜活生命是转重症还是回家团聚，这也是济和医院作为诊治枢纽的价值所在。
It is the value of Zhi He Hospital as a diagnosis and treatment hub that whether the signs of disease are detected in advance determines whether a living life is reunited or reunited.
复星医疗抗疫专家组组长贾晓民教授在查房，并鼓励病人深圳恒生医院支援武汉医疗小组领队杨勇就遇到了一个典型的病例。
Professor Jia Xiaomin, the head of the SARS Expert Group, is on the lookout and encourages patients from Shenzhen Heng Sheng Hospital to support the Wuhan Medical Team Leader, Yang Yong, to encounter a typical case.
患者第一天来的时候，指脉氧饱和度还比较正常。
When the patient came on the first day, the oxygen saturation of the fingers was normal.
到了第二天查房时，他的手指已全部发紫，手指血氧饱和度检测结果只有80%，是个危险信号。
By the next day, his fingers were all purple and his finger blood oxygen saturation was only 80%, which was a red flag.
经过高流量供氧机治疗后，患者才好转。
The patient was cured by a high-flow oxygen supply machine.
“从早期转到重症过程的每一个节点，一定要控制住。
"Every node of the transition from early to severe must be controlled.
”陶飞解释，血氧饱和度的数据就是其中一个节点，及时氧疗会减少病人发展为重症的几率。
Blood oxygen saturation data is one such node, Tao explained, and prompt oxygen therapy reduces a patient's chance of developing serious illness.
而重症病人的死亡率是很高的，截至2月15日，武汉的重症病例为8530例，病死率2.96%，均高于湖北和全国。
As of February 15, the number of serious cases in Wuhan was 58.0 percent, which is higher than that in Hubei and the whole country.
他的病区有一位病人，氧疗后情况得到好转。
There was a patient in his ward and his condition improved after oxygen therapy.
但气流穿过鼻腔，带来不好的本体感受。
But the airflow through the nasal cavity, brings the bad ontological feeling.
“病人反反复复，不予配合，最后转到上级医院插管了。
"The patient repeats, does not cooperate, finally transfers to the superior hospital intubation.
”陶飞既痛惜又不甘。
"Tao Fei regretted and refused.
怎么让病人配合，怎么安抚病人，这也是医院的一大难题。
How to let the patient cooperate, how to appease the patient, this also is a big problem of the hospital.
病人被隔离后特别焦躁，这是一种常态。
It is the norm that patients become particularly anxious after isolation.
有位患者因腹痛就诊，查出核酸阳性而入院。
One patient was admitted to hospital with abdominal pain and was found to be nucleic acid positive.
他情绪一直激动，不明白胃痛怎么收到这里住院了，怀疑是误诊，要求再次核酸检测，也不配合治疗，每天只是反复追问测试结果。
He has been emotional, do not understand how stomach pain received here in hospital, suspected to be misdiagnosed, asked for a second nucleic acid test, also do not cooperate with treatment, every day only repeated test results.
医护人员只有耐心地解释新冠肺炎的临床表现，劝说他安心治疗。
The hospital staff had to patiently explain the clinical manifestation of Newcomial Pneumonia and persuade him to treat it safely.
三日后，看到“阳性”二字的他一脸失落，沉默良久后，说了一句“加油！武汉加油！中国加油！”济和医院的护士长吴姣总结出了心得，作为医护人员，首先要主动给病人传播知识，尽可能消除他们内心的恐惧，光说“别怕“这两个字没用。
Three days later, seeing the word "masculine" on his face, he was silent for a long time and said, "Come on! Wuhan! Come on, China!" Wu Jiao, head nurse at Ji He Hospital, summed up his experience.
武汉济和医院护士长吴姣在隔离病区而有个病人告诉她，以前住院，家人都在旁边。
Wu Jiao, head nurse at Wuhan Jiao Hospital, was in the quarantine area when a patient told her that she had been hospitalized and her family was nearby.
现在这个病，家属不能陪着，只能把护士当成家属。
Now this illness, the family can not accompany, can only take the nurse as the family.
“我们和他们说话，他们会觉得很安心，心情也会好很多，更愿意治疗了”，吴姣介绍自己的方法。
"When we talk to them, they will feel at ease, in a much better mood and more willing to be treated," Wu said of his method.
安抚病人对人力配备也是个考验。
Solving patients is also a test of manpower.
从“封城”那天开始，济和本院的4个护士长已经连续工作29天，拒绝下火线。
Since the "Sealing Day," the hospital's four head nurses have been working continuously for 29 days, refused to fire.
来自康复科的吴姣，第一次被抽调到感染区。
Wu Jiao, from the rehabilitation department, was first evacuated to the infected area.
“工作量翻了好几倍”。
The workload has multiplied several times.
因为很多病人会呼吸困难，所以除了静脉输液等常规工作，她与各种仪器打交道的时间变得很长。
Because many patients have difficulty breathing, she spends a lot of time with various devices, except for routine tasks such as intravenous infusion.
呼吸机、雾化器、中心供氧系统、高流量呼吸湿化治疗仪等，都在不间断使用，必须保障病人生命体征的稳定。
The ventilator, the atomizer, the central oxygen supply system, the high-flow respiratory humidification therapeutics, etc., are all used without interruption, and the stability of the patient's vital signs must be guaranteed.
新冠肺炎和普通肺炎相比，传染性强，这就要求大家特别注意预防病房内的交叉感染。
Coronary pneumonia is more infectious than ordinary pneumonia, which requires special attention to the prevention of cross-infection in wards.
护士们每天都在做消毒工作，喷撒消毒液，隔一天就给病人换床单被套，统一送到指定地方清洗和消毒。
The nurses disinfect themselves every day, spray disinfectant, change sheets every other day, and send them to designated areas for cleaning and disinfection.
这些工作原来依靠护工分担，但他们中的许多人因为交通原因被阻隔，现在只能由医护人员亲自处理。
Many of these jobs, which used to be shared by caregivers, have been blocked for transportation reasons and now have to be handled by medical personnel themselves.
像陶飞、吴琼这样的专业医护人员的到来，极大缓解了济和医院本身的压力。
The arrival of medical professionals such as Tao Fei and Wu Qiong greatly eased the pressure on the economy and the hospital itself.
本院的医护人员会开玩笑说，看到大家来了，就好像看到了“小甜饼”一样。
The hospital staff would joke that to see everyone coming was like seeing a cookie.
岳阳广济医院院感科主任吴琼听说需要去武汉支援，二话不说答应了人手渐渐充裕了。
Yueyang Guangji Hospital sensory director Wu Qiong heard the need to go to Wuhan to support, without saying that the hands gradually abundant.
几天前，济和医院院长柳再奎要求医院强制排班，规定医护人员必须轮休。
A few days ago, Ji and hospital director Liu Zaiqui asked the hospital to make the shift mandatory and mandatory for medical staff.
目前，济和医院的医护/病人比大约是1：3，一个病区约36名病人，配备12位轮班医生护士，救治渐渐进入常态化阶段。
At present, the ratio of medical care to patients in JWH is about 1: 3, with about 36 patients in one ward, with 12 shift doctors and nurses, who are gradually moving into the normalization phase.
患者也慢慢平稳了心态，更多地体谅起医护人员的不易。
The patient also slowly calmed down the mentality, more understanding of the difficulties of medical personnel.
比如，与医生谈话时，会故意保持距离。
For example, when talking to a doctor, you deliberately keep your distance.
咳嗽时，示意对方别靠近。
When coughing, signal to keep away from the cough.
许多最开始不耐烦的病人，得知援助队是来自江苏、广东的专科精英，便高高握起了拳头，做出鼓励的姿势。
Many of the most impatient patients, learning that the team was a specialist from Jiangsu and Guangdong, shook their fists high and made a gesture of encouragement.
医护人员的情绪也不再高度紧绷，互相给对方的防护服写名字时，偶尔画个爱心，也会加一句“我想回重庆吃火锅”之类的俏皮话。
Health care workers are no longer in a high mood. When they write names to each other's protective clothing, they occasionally draw a love note and add "I want to go back to Chongqing to eat hotpot."
晏飞说他病房里的病人，目前零死亡，且有3人已治愈出院。
Anor said that the patient in his ward, the current zero death, and three people have been cured out of hospital.
“这就是前线继续坚持的最大动力。
"This is the greatest motivation to continue on the front line.
”武汉济和医院内科医生晏飞正在查看患者CT结果把每一个口罩“人肉”快递到80余家医院12天前，皮浩的救护车坏了。
Wuhan Ji and Anfei, a physician at the hospital, are looking at CT results showing that an ambulance broke down 12 days after sending each mask "human flesh" to more than 80 hospitals.
因用得太频繁，从机场回医院的路上，满载医疗防护物资的救护车离合器烧坏了。
Ambulance clutches, loaded with medical supplies, burned out on the way back from the airport to the hospital.
从1月29日首批复星采购物资抵达武汉后，陈玉卿和包勤贵的重点工作之一，就是解决如何在湖北全境有效分发物资的问题。
Since the first batch of restocking materials arrived in Wuhan on January 29, one of her priorities and that of BaoGui is to solve the problem of how to distribute materials effectively throughout Hubei Province.
每一天，两人要收到几百个电话和几千条微信，来自各级防疫指挥部、各大医院、各省援鄂医疗队，甚至医院科室主任，都希望得到防护物资的紧急援助。
Each day, the two men received hundreds of telephone calls and thousands of letters from the epidemic prevention headquarters at all levels, major hospitals, medical teams in Hubei province, and even the heads of hospital departments and offices to receive emergency assistance with protective materials.
谁也没有想到，武汉乃至湖北的医疗物资短缺，是一个持续性的问题。
No one thought that Wuhan or even Hubei medical supplies shortage, is a continuing problem.
1月31日，在“封城”的第8天，湖北省人民政府召开发布会，特别回应了“红十字会接收了大量物资，为什么医院还是缺物资？”的问题。
On January 31, eight days after the city was closed, the People's Government of Hubei Province held a press conference, responding in particular to the question "Why are hospitals still short of supplies?"
把救命的医疗防护物资送到阳光照不到，政府暂时顾不到的地方，只能点对点地“人肉”快递。
Life-saving medical protection supplies to the sun, the government temporarily ignored the place, can only point to the point of "human flesh" express.
车不得不频繁地用，因为救急就是救命。
Cars have to be used frequently because emergency is life-saving.
可需求这么多，物资怎么才能高效分配？指挥部定下原则：浪费是低效的捐赠，每一个口罩都要物尽其用，每一件关乎生命的物资都要精准送抵。
But with so much demand, how can supplies be distributed efficiently? The command has set the rule that waste is an inefficient donation, that every mask should be put to good use, and that everything that matters to life must be delivered with precision.
复星武汉前方副总指挥、复星医疗执行总裁包勤贵代表复星和济和医院，将1000套医用级防护服送到华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院（武汉协和医院）陈玉卿和包勤贵俩人采用了最土的办法——打电话。
Fu Xing Wuhan front vice-director and chief executive of Fuxing Medical, Bao Qiugui, on behalf of Fu Xing and Jiehe Hospital, sent 1,000 sets of medical-grade protective suits to the Tongji Medical College Affiliated Concorde Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (Wuhan Concorde Hospital).
每一天，两人盯着手机的时间超过14个小时，为了随时与一线的人员密切联系，核实每一家医院的真实状况，动态跟踪它们在战疫过程中的角色变化。
Each day, the two spent more than 14 hours staring at their phones, keeping in close contact with front-line staff, verifying the true status of each hospital and dynamically tracking their role in the epidemic.
如一家医院设置了多少隔离病区，有多少在隔离病区及发热门诊工作的医护人员，就是硬数据。
For example, the number of quarantined areas set up in a hospital, the number of health-care workers working in quarantine and fever clinics is hard data.
如果某家医院没有设置隔离病区，而仅仅只有发热门诊，那么带密封胶条的医疗级防护服和红区（隔离区）的N95口罩就不在救急的范围内。
Medical-grade protective clothing with sealants and N95 masks in the Red Zone (ZOS) are not included in the emergency response if a hospital does not have an isolation area but only a fever clinic.
当然也要分析疫区的情况。
The situation in the affected areas must also be analysed.
湖北下辖地级市中，孝感和黄冈形势最为严峻，因两地紧邻武汉，自属的医疗资源不是特别丰富。
In Hubei prefecture-level city, filial piety and Huanggang situation is the most serious, because the two places close to Wuhan, their own medical resources are not particularly rich.
而襄阳、宜昌、荆州属于次级重灾区，至少当地还有几家大型三甲综合医院。
Xiangyang, Yichang, Jingzhou is a secondary disaster area, there are at least a few large triple A general hospital.
从对方在沟通中的态度，也可判断防护物资的紧缺程度。
From each other's attitude in communication, can also judge the degree of shortage of protective materials.
“举个例子，如果真的十万火急，我一个电话过去，他会马上来取。
"For example, if there's a real rush and I call over, he'll pick it up right away.
如果说过两天有车再来拿，说明暂时没有那么紧张，”包勤贵分析对方语言传递的信息。
If there's a car coming back in two days, it means it's not that stressful, "Bao said, analyzing each other's messages.
几天前，为了研究武汉周边地市的具体需求，他们两人至少拉了包括孝感、黄冈、襄阳、十堰、荆门在内9个地级市防疫指挥部的直线对接群，联络各种渠道——同事、同学、朋友，一点点地盘摸各地动态情形。
A few days ago, in order to study the specific needs of the cities around Wuhan, the two of them at least pulled the nine-level city epidemic prevention command, including filial piety, Huanggang, Xiangyang, Shiyan and Jingmen, to contact various channels - colleagues, students, friends, a little bit of the site of the dynamic situation.
“因为现在到处都在紧急求援，需求不可能均匀配给，极有可能会错位”，陈玉卿说。
"Because there are urgent calls for help everywhere, demand cannot be evenly rationed and there is a high risk of misplacement," Chen said.
所以哪个医院缺鞋套而非护目镜，哪个城市缺尿不湿而非防护服，一定不能含糊，“都是救命的重要资源，绝不能因错配，轻易浪费。
So which hospital is short of shoes cover rather than goggles, which city is lack of urine not wet rather than protective clothing, must not vague, "are life-saving important resources, must not be mismatched, easy to waste.
”济和医院作为中转站的特殊枢纽地位渐渐显现。
Ji He Hospital emerged as a special hub of the transit center.
每一天，一辆辆从上海驶来的货车将物资快速卸下，济和医院的两辆救护车、两辆商务车又将盘点统计完毕的物资，一趟趟分发出去。
Every day, a truck from Shanghai to quickly unload goods, Ji He Hospital, two ambulances, two commercial vehicles will be the inventory of the finished distribution of goods.
武汉济和医院“日均1000公里，少则开七八趟，多则十几趟，怎么会跑不坏呢？”皮浩还在心痛那辆开了七八年的救护车。
Wuhan Ji and hospital "average 1000 km a day, less than seven or eight times, more than a dozen times, how can not run bad?"
三天前，他和陈玉卿、包勤贵分别驾驶车辆出发，以武汉济和医院为轴点，折返于孝感、黄冈和荆州，共6趟。
Three days ago, he and Chen Yuqing, BaoGuiGui drove their respective vehicles, to Wuhan Ji He Hospital as the axis, back to filial piety, Huanggang and Jingzhou, a total of six trips.
早上8点半出发，次日凌晨最终返回医院。
Departure at 8: 30 a.m. and eventually returned to the hospital in the early morning.
“救护车空间有限，一次性只能装1.5吨的物资，只能往返折腾。
"Ambulance space is limited, only 1.5 tons of supplies can be loaded at a time, can only toss and turn.
”1月31日晚上，包勤贵代表复星将1000套医用级防护服捐赠给武汉协和医院，从这时候起，陈玉卿和包勤贵两个人二十几天，共分配了近40万套/件医疗防护物资，覆盖湖北全境12个地市的80余家医院。
On the evening of January 31, Bao diligently donated 1,000 sets of medical-grade protective clothing to Wuhan Hsieh-ho Hospital. From then on, Chen Yuqing and BaoGui distributed nearly 400,000 sets / pieces of medical protection materials, covering more than 80 hospitals in 12 cities throughout Hubei Province.
在雷神山医院的捐赠现场，救护车司机皮浩向我们描述了一个“壮观”的场景：方圆几公里灯火通明，公安、武警、军队、城管、路政等各种机构，货车、负压车、执勤车、救护车、施工车等各种车辆，在这里汇合；穿不同制服的人分工协作，大家非常忙碌，无暇他顾，像一颗颗螺丝钉地高速运转。
At the donation site of Raytheon Mountain Hospital, ambulance driver Pi Hao described a "spectacular" scene: public security, armed police, army, city control, highway administration, and other vehicles, such as trucks, negative pressure vehicles, duty vehicles, ambulances, construction vehicles, and other vehicles.
2月11日晚，复星从全球紧急采购的5000件胶条防护服、1万个红区口罩、30台医用无创呼吸机和1辆负压救护车等医疗物资，运抵武汉雷神山医院。
On the night of February 11, 5,000 pieces of medical supplies, including 5,000 rubber suits, 10,000 red-zone masks, 30 non-invasive medical ventilators and a negative-pressure ambulance, which were urgently procured from around the world, arrived at Wuhan Shen Shan Hospital.
疫情面前，作揖替代握手成为交接礼仪国家力量在行动，带来无限的信心和底气。
In the face of the epidemic, bowing to the handshake has become the handover ceremony of the national forces in action, bringing unlimited confidence and confidence.
但一家民营企业以一家非公医疗医院为支点，也在前方勉力地做着拾遗补缺的工作，尽一份心力和责任。
But a private enterprise to a non-public medical hospital as the fulcrum, but also in front of the work of picking up the gap, do a part of the effort and responsibility.
包勤贵赶到武汉时，带了一个24寸的行李箱，里面只有两件羽绒服。
When Bao came to Wuhan, he brought a 24-inch suitcase with only two down-down suits inside.
一件送货、搬货时外穿，一件清洁居家。
A delivery, when the goods wear outside, a clean home.
他的外衣被复星同学戏称为“黑金战衣”——近1个月的酒精喷洒和日晒雨淋，已经让它变得有些板结。
His coat has been dubbed "Black Gold War Clothes" by his fellow Fuxing classmates - nearly a month of alcohol spraying and sun and rain have made it a little tight.
“就先这样在外面撑着吧”，他说，疫情不完，不归。
"Just hang out like this," he said. "The epidemic is not over.
春暖花开，战士归来本文仅代表作者观点，不代表本刊立场推荐阅读▼全国10%重症力量支援武汉：一支医疗队的新冠战事一下冒出80多项新冠肺炎疗法，世卫组织：迄今无一推荐。
Shall we go back to Wuhan = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日行1000公里，“人肉”配送，一家民营医院的战“疫”实录。
1000 km a day, "human flesh" distribution, a private hospital war "epidemic" records.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "日行1000公里，“人肉”配送，一家民营医院的战“疫”实录";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "一家医院的故事，也是一座城市的故事";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a hospital story, and a city story & quot;;
title: '全国10%重症力量支援武汉：一支医疗队的新冠战事',。
At least 10 per cent of China's intensive care service Wuhan: A medical team's new crown war.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '全国10%重症力量支援武汉：一支医疗队的新冠战事',。
At least 10 per cent of China's intensive care service Wuhan: A medical team's new crown war.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '全国10%重症力量支援武汉：一支医疗队的新冠战事',。
At least 10 per cent of China's intensive care service Wuhan: A medical team's new crown war.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '癌从“口”入，医生为何建议男人也打HPV疫苗？',。
Why did doctors recommend that men also take HPV? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一下冒出80多项新冠肺炎疗法，世卫组织：迄今无一推荐',。
At least 80 new treatments for pneumonia have sprung up, none at WHO: Not at all.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '一下冒出80多项新冠肺炎疗法，世卫组织：迄今无一推荐',。
At least 80 new treatments for pneumonia have sprung up, none at WHO: Not at all.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
