直播卖车能救车企吗？。
Can selling a car live save a car?
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）火热周二晚上七点，宝马在天猫旗舰店的第一场夜场直播准时开始。
The first live broadcast of BMW's flagship store on Tuesday night began on time at 7: 00 pm.
两位销售人员戴着口罩，西装笔挺，手里各拿着一只公仔，冲着镜头聊了起来。
The two salesmen, wearing masks and formal suits, each had a male figure in his hand and began to talk to the camera.
直播间很快涌入3000多观众。
Broadcast studios soon flooded in to more than 3,000 viewers.
与那些游刃有余的游戏或娱乐主播不同，这两位主播看上去略显生涩。
Unlike the game or entertainment anchorman, these two anchors look a little bit more esoteric.
从车型介绍、弹幕互动，到抽奖结束，一个小时的直播，似乎是在听了一段“对口相声”后宣告结束。
From the introduction of the car, the interaction of the bomb screen, to the end of the raffle, an hour of live broadcast, seems to be listening to a "cross-talk" after the end.
把这些汽车销售员“赶鸭子”上架般推进线上直播间的，是目前仍在持续的新冠肺炎疫情。
Pushing these car salesmen into the online studio like a duck is the ongoing outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
随着线下销售基本停滞，对本已深陷寒冬的汽车行业而言，打开线上市场就成为众多车企和经销商不得不做出的突围选择。
With offline sales largely stagnant, opening the online market has become a break-through option for many car companies and distributors already in the grips of winter.
“没想到直播会这么火，最近很多汽车厂商都在咨询我们，问有没有直播的功能。
"I didn't expect the live broadcast to be so hot. Recently many auto makers have been asking us if there is a live broadcast function.
”在一家大型汽车垂直平台工作的刘峰向“商业人物”表示。
Mr Liu, who works on a vertical platform for a large car, told People in Business.
据他透露，从2月3日复工开始，其所在团队就在忙不停地筹备一个新项目——一款面向厂商的直播产品。
Since resuming work on February 3, his team has been busy preparing a new project, a live feed to manufacturers, he said.
这款产品原计划是年后慢慢启动，但这段时间公司内部正加班加点，希望3月份便能够上线。
The product was planned to start slowly after a year, but the company is working overtime in the meantime and hopes to go online in March.
与受到疫情冲击的很多行业类似，车企们的日子也并不好过。
Like many of the industries hit by the epidemic, car companies are struggling.
乘联会统计数据显示，今年1月份全国乘用车市场零售169万辆，同比下降21.5%，这是该机构自2005年有统计以来的最低增速。
According to the FHKI statistics, the passenger-car market in China was 1.69 million in January, down 21.5% from a year earlier, the agency's lowest growth rate since 2005.
2月以来疫情冲击更为明显，整个汽车产业链几乎处于全面停顿状态。
Since February, the impact of the epidemic is more obvious, the entire automotive industry chain is almost at a standstill.
据中国汽车流通协会最新调查显示，目前68家汽车经销商集团（涉及全国各地共4437家4S店）综合复工率仅10%左右。
According to a new survey by the China Automobile Circulation Association, only about 10 percent of the 68 auto dealer groups (4,437 4S stores across the country) have been restarted.
虽然车企和经销商陆续复工，但一季度产销量出现大幅下滑将难以避免。
Although car companies and dealers continue to work, but a first quarter production and sales decline will be inevitable.
面对门可罗雀的线下销售门店，包括一众外资、合资以及国产品牌在内的汽车厂商，将目光纷纷投向了线上。
Auto makers, including a host of foreign, joint-venture and domestic brands, are casting their sights on the line as they sell their stores offline.
“云看车”、VR全景看车、在线下单和预约上门试驾等网上动作，一时间变得十分火热。
"Cloud look at the car", VR panoramic view of the car, online ordering and booking door-to-door test drive and other online actions, become very hot.
供职于一家主机厂多年的王川称，据他从行业内部了解，“其实直播卖车在疫情之前就有尝试，从复工到现在，很多车企都设定了线上直播的考核硬指标。
Wang Chuan, who has worked for a home-engine factory for years, said he knew from within the industry that 'there was an attempt to sell cars live before the epidemic, and from the start of work until now, many companies have set hard targets for live online testing.
作为一种低成本获取客源的方式，这成了目前必须要做的一件事。
As a low-cost way of getting customers, this has become a must now.
”小鹏汽车一位销售业务相关人士告诉“商业人物”，自其线上销售方案执行之后，目前各门店均已开始逐一进行直播讲车，官微、抖音、快手官方账号等渠道也同时进行。
A sales source told People in Business that since the launch of its online sales plan, stores have started to broadcast live talk cars one by one, with official channels such as micro, dithered and fast-moving official accounts running concurrently.
其中官方账号平均每周至少一场直播，门店自行策划的直播平均每天保持8场以上。
Official accounts average at least one live broadcast a week, with stores planning their own live broadcasts averaging more than eight a day.
截至2月11日，已有30家门店进行了直播看车和讲车。
As of February 11, 30 stores had conducted live car watching and speaking.
难题刘峰的直观感受是，以前很多汽车厂商并不太重视线上营销。
Liu Feng's intuitive sense of the problem is that many auto manufacturers have not been too heavy line of sight marketing.
现在受疫情影响，线上需求变得非常旺盛。
Now affected by the epidemic, online demand is becoming very strong.
虽然抖音、天猫等平台流量巨大，但一些厂商出于产品调性的考虑，仍然希望通过行业垂直平台进行直播。
Although the jitter, cat and other platforms are huge, but some manufacturers out of concern for the tone of the product, still hope to broadcast live through the industry vertical platform.
“正是看到这种需求，公司才决定尽快上马面向B端的直播产品。
"It was in response to this demand that the company decided to launch a live feed to B as soon as possible.
我们可能会采取打包售卖服务的方式，厂商购买直播服务之后，会得到相应的流量和线索（即有效电话号码）。
We may take the form of a package sale service where the vendor will get traffic and clues (that is, a valid phone number) when buying a live feed service.
”目前市面上的直播卖车主要由两种团队在做。
There are two main groups that sell cars live on the market.
一是由厂商的销售人员进行，一是网红带货性质，即厂商与KOL合作。
One is by the manufacturer's sales staff, one is the nature of red tape goods, that is, manufacturers and KOL cooperation.
这类似于小型团购，由KOL前期在网上搜集购车需求，积攒到一二百辆时去和厂商谈判，以拿到更优惠的购车价格。
It's similar to small group buying, where KOL collects online car-buying needs and saves up to 200 vehicles to negotiate with the manufacturer for a better purchase price.
对这些厂商内部表现生疏的销售们而言，无疑需要承受额外压力。
There is no doubt that extra pressure will have to be put on these vendors, whose internal performance is rudimentary.
相比以往用户到店数量、订单和成交量的考核指标，现在面对镜头，直播间活跃度和意向用户数，可能就成了新的棘手任务。
Compared to the past number of users to store, orders and volume of assessment indicators, now facing the lens, direct broadcasting activity and the number of intended users, may become a new challenge.
虽然各类直播的架势热闹，但无论哪种方式，要抓住眼下这波流量红利都不容易。
Despite the hustle and bustle of all sorts of live broadcasts, capturing the current flow dividend will not be easy either way.
在王川看来，传统的4S店销售模式都是线下下单，并没有线上下单的流程，实际交付都还需要到店里。
In Wang Chuan's view, the traditional 4S store sales model is under-line orders, there is no line up and down the single process, the actual delivery needs to go to the store.
而在4S店购车各种费用算得比较杂，考虑到各种配置、保险、以及口头上的优惠，成交价和指导价可以相差两三万元。
In the 4S shop to buy a variety of costs are more complex, taking into account a variety of configuration, insurance, and oral preferences, turnover and guidance prices can differ by $230,000.
这种价格上的不透明，导致无法通过线上直接下单。
This price opacity makes it impossible to place orders directly over the line.
另外，目前4S店销售都有地域性，是不同的利益团体，并不支持异地交车。
In addition, the current 4S store sales are regional, is a different interest group, and does not support off-site delivery.
如果线上在一个地方下单，但需要另外一个地方对接的话，整个流程就会变得复杂。
If you place an order online in one place, but you need to dock in another place, the whole process becomes complicated.
“现在很多做直播的销售，是为了完成KPI而直播。
"A lot of live sales are now being made to complete KPI live.
基本的直播要求，比如镜头感、技巧、产品展现能力等都比较欠缺，没有经过相应的培训。
Basic live broadcast requirements, such as mirror sense, skills, product presentation ability are relatively inadequate, without the corresponding training.
”他说，从大多数的用户角度看，车毕竟是十几万、几十万的大件商品，去店里实地查看仍然是刚需。
After all, from the point of view of most users, cars are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of large goods, and going to the store to see them in person is still just needed.
线上直播的最大作用是导流，但订单成交还是需要到线下或者其他形式才能更好实现。
The biggest effect of live streaming is streaming, but order transactions still need to be offline or other forms to better achieve.
线上直播的转化率不高，从刘峰此前接触到的一些案例中也能看出端倪。
Online live broadcast conversion rate is not high, from Liu Feng has been in contact with a number of cases can also see Ni.
他表示，从以往有过的几次与厂商合作经历看，线上销售的效果都比较一般。
He said that from the past several times with manufacturers cooperation experience, online sales effect is relatively modest.
线上直播通常采取的分发优惠券等形式，其实计算下来未必比到店里买更划算。
The online broadcast usually takes the form of coupons, which are not necessarily more cost-effective to calculate than to go to the store.
直播所用到的市场推广费用，最终“羊毛还是出在羊身上”。
The marketing costs of the live broadcast ended up being "wool is still on the sheep."
线上直播并不太适合汽车这种产品，可能流量很大，但转化率和有效线索并不理想。
On-line live broadcast is not suitable for the car this product, may flow very big, but the conversion rate and the effective clue are not ideal.
消费者更多还是线上咨询，然后去实体门店里体验再最终成交。
Consumers are more likely to consult online, then go to the physical store to experience the final transaction.
此外他同样认为，在“跨区销售”被严格禁止的情况下，厂商或经销商对异地订单并不太感兴趣。
He also believes that in the case of "cross-regional sales" is strictly prohibited, manufacturers or dealers are not very interested in off-site orders.
比如一个湖南买家，下了一个江西的订单，但现在都出不了门，购车用户就只能在本地消化。
One Hunan buyer, for example, placed an order for Jiangxi, but is now unable to get out of the door, so buyers have to digest it locally.
在到不了店的情况下，要在直播上成交是不可能的。
Without access to the store, it is impossible to close a deal on the live broadcast.
“现阶段直播卖车可能更多只是噱头，用于品宣带流量可以，但实际转化效果很难评估。
"At this stage live selling may be more of a stunt, used for tasting traffic can, but the actual conversion effect is difficult to assess.
”刘峰说。
"said Liu Feng.
分化在触摸不到实车的情况下，价格透明度、口碑和品牌的作用就变得明显。
Differentiation in the touch of the real car, price transparency, word of mouth and the role of the brand has become apparent.
与传统汽车厂商相比，造车新势力们由于统一的价格体系和直营渠道，被认为更适于线上直播，转化率也可能会更高。
New car builders are thought to be better suited for live broadcasting than traditional car makers, and conversion rates are likely to be higher, thanks to a unified price system and direct marketing channels.
目前除小鹏汽车之外，蔚来和威马等也已纷纷加入直播阵营。
At present, in addition to the car, Wei Lilai and Weimar have also joined the live camp.
而看上去高高在上的特斯拉，在2月2日暂时关闭中国大陆所有线下门店之际，早早便已切入直播卖车模式。
Tesla, who appears to be above the crowd, was already cutting into live-broadcast selling on Feb. 2, when he temporarily closed all offline stores in mainland China.
小鹏上述人士表示，区别于传统的汽车经销商依赖线下门店销售渠道，小鹏汽车在线上内容和用户运营方面具有一定经验。
Xiaopeng said that, unlike traditional car dealers rely on online store sales channels, Peng has some experience in online content and user operations.
现在关键是通过优化直播流程把流量拉上来，最终促成转化为订单。
The key now is to optimize the live streaming process to pull up the flow, ultimately leading to the conversion into orders.
从当前的流量转化来看，留资线索、试驾预约以及意向订单，甚至是大定订单，均有所收获。
From the current flow conversion point of view, retained capital clues, trial-drive appointments, as well as intention orders, even large orders, have gained.
不过，其未进一步透露具体销售数额。
However, it did not further disclose the amount of the sale.
尽管认为线上直播的效果待考，但王川仍觉得疫情结束之后，这种模式可能会保留下来。
Although the effects of the live online broadcast are expected to be tested, but Wang still feels that the epidemic is over, this model may remain.
甚至车企应该设置固定的运营团队，来专门负责这部分工作。
Even car companies should have a permanent operating team dedicated to this part of the work.
尤其如果所有厂商均支持线上下单，那么直播卖车等线上营销很可能会成为车企的发力重点。
Especially if all manufacturers support the line up and down single, then direct selling on line such as car sales is likely to become the focus of the power of car enterprises.
“目前养一个4S门店的成本很高，一个较大规模的门店，每月固定开销能达到两三百万以上。
"It's expensive to run a 4S store right now, a larger store with a fixed monthly cost of more than two or three million dollars.
”而据波士顿咨询最新发布的报告，在疫情导致的现金流压力之下，一些弱势品牌、新品牌和库存高的经销商尤其面临生存挑战。
And under pressure from cash flow from the epidemic, some vulnerable brands, new brands and dealers with high inventories face particular survival challenges, according to a new report from Boston Consulting.
因此在业内人士看来，将销售渠道扩展至线上，不失为未来变革销售体系的一步。
Therefore, in the industry, the expansion of sales channels to the line, is a future change in the sales system a step.
刘峰所在的不到20人团队，正在加紧直播产品的各项测试。
Liu Feng's team of less than 20 people is stepping up live product testing.
他同样感受到并不完备的直播卖车背后，潜在的庞大市场需求。
He also felt the potential demand behind the imperfect live selling of cars.
“原来一些厂商对线上这套东西反应是很慢的，因为他们不缺客户。
"It turns out that some manufacturers are slow to respond to this online package because they don't need customers.
但现在都有了认识上的转变，意识到线上同样十分重要。
But now that there has been a shift in perception, it is also important to be online.
如果不是疫情带来的极端情况，这种转变短期内是很难发生的。
Such a shift would have been difficult in the short term had it not been for the extremes brought about by the epidemic.
”对那些动作较快、市场意识前卫的厂商而言，线上营销还可能加速转变其经营模式，包括市场推广费用的投放配比。
For fast-moving, market-conscious manufacturers, online marketing may also accelerate a shift in their business model, including matching marketing costs.
而原本固化的汽车广告市场，也会借此催生新的波澜。
And the original solidified car advertising market, will also be able to generate new waves.
刘峰举例称，目前汽车厂商一条线索的获客成本约200元-500元，如果各类线上平台的导流和转化效果提升，这无疑将为其市场策略提供更多可能。
For example, Liu said that the current car manufacturers of a clue to the cost of about 200 yuan - 500 yuan, if the diversion and conversion of various online platforms, this will no doubt provide more possibilities for its market strategy.
2月20日，周四。
Thursday, 20 February.
宝马又开始了在天猫的全天四场直播。
The BMW began its four full-day live broadcasts of the cat.
另一端的抖音平台上，各类汽车KOL也在向粉丝们讲解着各种车型的“硬核”知识。
At the other end of the chatter platform, KOL is teaching fans about the "hard core" of various models.
在疫情裹挟而来的普遍焦虑中，寒冬中的车企们借此能走多远？（文中刘峰、王川为化名）*头图为抖音视频截图推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
In the midst of the epidemic's widespread anxiety, how far can car companies in the winter go? (Liu Feng, Wang Chuan, alias) * The head picture suggests that all original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直播卖车能救车企吗？。
Can selling a car live save a car?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "直播卖车能救车企吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "架势热闹背后，转化率可能并不高。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Behind the bustle, the conversion rate may not have been high.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉卫健委往事',。
At the service of Wuhan Fitness & amp; Health Committee.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '一个村庄的新冠肺炎乌龙事件',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '缺血、断药、移植暂停，疫情中的白血病人',。
AT & amp; apos; Ischemia, disabling medication, temporary suspension, and leukemia & amp; apos; in an epidemic.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
