上海学界发表重磅文章，反思新冠疫情中暴露出的十大问题/* declared */。
The Shanghai academic community published a weighty article reflecting on the top ten issues exposed in the new crown epidemic / * declared * /.
上海学界发表重磅文章，反思新冠疫情中暴露出的十大问题<br>。
The Shanghai academic community has published weighty articles reflecting on AT & L & lt; Br & gt; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45;
| title       = 上海学界发表重磅文章，反思新冠疫情中暴露出的十大问题。
& # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
上海学界发表重磅文章，反思新冠疫情中暴露出的十大问题。
Shanghai academic circles published a heavy-weight article, reflecting on the new crown epidemic exposed in the ten problems.
黄祺。
Wangqi.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情给我们上了沉重一课。
The sudden outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia has taught us a heavy lesson.
这次付出的代价也许难以估量。
The cost may be incalculable.
吃一堑, 长一智, 必须成为我们的不二选择!记者 | 黄　祺今天（2月23日），《中国科学：生命科学》杂志在线发表了由中国科学院院士陈国强牵头的上海交通大学医学院团队撰写的专题评述论文：《新型冠状病毒感染疫情下的思考》（⬅点击看全文）。
Today, the journal Chinese Science: Life Sciences published online a monograph written by a team from the School of Medicine of Shanghai Jiaotong University, led by Chen Guoqiang, a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
文章从我国公共卫生防控体系、应急响应机制、科技创新、医疗供给与储备等十大方面的问题进行系统梳理, 并在此基础上着重就加强公共卫生和疾病防控体系、完善应急防控体系、提高政府治理能力和公民知 识普及力度、构建相关法律法规体系以及国家生物安全体系等提出相关建议。
This paper systematically combs the problems of public health prevention and control system, emergency response mechanism, science and technology innovation, medical supply and reserves, and puts forward some suggestions on strengthening public health and disease prevention and control system, improving emergency prevention and control system, enhancing government governance and public knowledge, constructing relevant laws and regulations and national biosafety system.
文章认为，2020年1月20日,钟南山院士公开表示新冠肺炎出现人传人特点前的3~4周防控初期，相关机构对疫情发展的“误判” 很大程度上降低了公众甚至是医务工作者的警觉和防护意识, 进而加大了后阶段疫情防控的难度。
On January 20, 2020, academician Zhong Nan Shan publicly said that in the 3-4 weeks prior to the emergence of human-to-human transmission of New Crown Pneumonia, the "misjudgment" of the development of the epidemic greatly reduced the awareness of the public and even medical workers, thus making the prevention and control of the disease more difficult.
论文通讯作者为上海交大医学院院长陈国强，副院长江帆，作者团队包括：上海交大医学院院长办公室丁蕾、蔡伟，上海交通大学医学院科技发展处丁健青，上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院临床病毒研究室张欣欣，上海交通大学医学院公共卫生学院蔡泳、石建伟，上海交通大学医学院基础医学院梁启明, 上海交通大学健康长三角研究院张录法，上海交通大学科学技术发展研究院孙丽珍, 上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院呼吸与危重症医学科瞿介明中国新冠肺炎疫情还在持续，《新型冠状病毒感染疫情下的思考》一文在摘要中说明了撰写此文的目的：“举国上下积极抗疫的过程中, 我们还是非常有必要及时并不断总结经验、吸取教训。
The writer is Ding Lei and Cai Wei, Director's Office of Medical College, Shanghai Jiaotong University Medical School, Ding Jianqing, Department of Scientific Development, Shanghai Jiaotong University Medical School, Zhang Xinqing, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine.
为此, 本文拟基于有限的信息下, 在聚焦讨论这次疫情应对中暴露出的短板和不足的基础上, 提出一些不成熟的思考和建议。
Therefore, on the basis of the limited information, this paper puts forward some immature thoughts and suggestions on the basis of focusing on the shortcomings and shortcomings exposed in this epidemic response.
期待这些思考能够引起更多的讨论, 助力国家 总结疫情经验教训, 进一步提升我国应对突发公共卫生事件的治理体系和治理能力现代化建设水平。
It is expected that these reflections will lead to more discussions, help the country to draw lessons learned from the epidemic, and further improve our governance system and the level of modernization of governance capacity to cope with public health emergencies.
”上海交大医学院院长、本文通讯作者之一陈国强院士接受《新民周刊》采访时表示：“突如其来的新冠肺炎疫情给我们上了沉重一课。
"The sudden outbreak of pneumonia has taught us a heavy lesson," academician Chen Guoqiang, dean of Jiao Tong University School of Medicine in Shanghai and one of the authors of the article, told Xinmin Weekly.
在疫情防控人民战争中，国家治理体系的制度优势得到充分展示，为赢得战争发挥了非常重要的作用。
In the epidemic prevention and control of the people's war, the institutional advantages of the national governance system were fully demonstrated and played a very important role in winning the war.
同时，这次疫情也敲响了警钟，暴露出我国在治理体系和治理能力建设上的短板和不足。
At the same time, the epidemic also sounded the alarm, exposing China's governance system and governance capacity-building shortcomings.
痛定思痛，亡羊补牢，认识到这些短板和不足，进行进一步思考和研究，是我们不断总结经验，积极推进国家治理体系和治理能力现代化的必要条件。
Further reflection and research, in recognition of these shortcomings and shortcomings, is a sine qua non for us to continue to learn from our experience and actively promote the modernization of governance systems and capacities in the country.
我们在2月7日组织有关人员基于有限的信息，开始思考，两天形成了这个报告。
On 7 February, we organized a brainstorming session, based on limited information, which produced the report for two days.
这也是我们医务工作者闻召而动，逆行抗疫的同时，坚守在后方的人员需要做的事情。
This is what our medical workers need to do when they hear the call to action and fight back against the epidemic.
最近，我们决定有必要发表，引起全社会的反思和进步。
Recently, we have decided that it is necessary to publish, causing reflection and progress of the whole society.
”文中分析了新冠疫情中暴露出的十个方面的问题和短板。
Ten problems and shortcomings exposed in the new crown epidemic were analyzed.
问题一：国家重大公共卫生疫情向公众报告不够及时、有度, 初期科学防控预案缺乏。
Issue one: The major public health epidemic in the country is not reported to the public in a timely and timely manner.
据1月29日来自中国疾病预防控制中心、武汉市疾病预防控制中心等机构发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》的回顾性病例分析论文《新型冠状病毒感染肺炎在中国武汉的初期传播动力学》报道, 2019年12月中旬密切接触者之间就已发生人际传播。
According to a retrospective case study published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29 by the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Wuhan City Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "The Early Kinetic Propagation Dynamics of New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan, China," reported interpersonal transmission among close contacts in mid-December 2019.
据随后各方公布的报道显示, 此后的1月 1~11日已有7名医务人员感染, 12~22日, 又有8名医务人员感染。
According to subsequent reports released by the parties, seven medical personnel were infected between 1 and 11 January and another eight from 12 to 22 January.
但是, 有关部门依然在2020年1月10日向公众报告“未发现明确的人传人证据”, 14日报告“不排除 有限人传人”。
However, authorities still reported to the public on January 10, 2020 "no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission", and the 14-day report "does not exclude limited human-to-human transmission."
“回顾这一过程, 我们认为, 在疫情发生的萌芽阶段, 地方政府在面对可能威胁人民群众生命安全和身体健康的重大传染病, 尤其是未知传染病疫情时应该及时倾听和回应专家意见, 并合理合情地向公众报告, 赋予公众知情权, 既防止造成恐慌, 也强化公众的警觉和自我防护意识。
"Looking back on this process, we believe that in the embryonic stage of an epidemic, local governments should listen to and respond to expert opinions in a timely manner when confronted with major infectious diseases, especially unknown infectious diseases, which may threaten the lives and health of the people, and reasonably inform the public to prevent panic and strengthen public awareness of vigilance and self-protection.
”文章认为，国家卫生部门和疾病防疫部门应该在“内部知情期”就制定科学合理的防控预案, 既要有最好的预期, 也要做最坏的打算。
The article argues that state health departments and disease-prevention departments should work out scientific and rational prevention and control plans during the "internal knowledge period," expecting both the best and the worst.
问题二：公共卫生和疾病防控体系建设与经济发展不相适应。
The second problem is that public health and disease prevention and control systems are incompatible with economic development.
文章指出，我国公共卫生总体规划和顶层设计仍较薄弱, 公共卫生体系改革尚处于初期阶段, 甚至还没有破题。
The article points out that China's general public health planning and top-level design is still weak, public health system reform is still in its infancy, or even solved the problem.
目前一些传统传染性疾病控制还未完全到位的同时, 新发传染病及突发公共卫生事件又突如其来, 而SARS疫情后小汤山医院关闭运行, 仅上海保留了因SARS疫情而开始建设的临床公共卫生中心(其间, 多次面临转型的问题), 多数城市包括武汉, 普遍出现识别和应对重大突发传染病能力不足的问题, 难以在应对突发疫情中发挥专业主导作用。
While some traditional infectious disease control measures are not yet in place, new infectious diseases and public health emergencies are occurring at short notice, while Xiaotangshan Hospital has closed down after the SARS epidemic, and only Shanghai has retained the clinical public health center started by SARS epidemic.
问题三：应急响应机制难以应对威胁人民健康的突发重大公共卫生事件。
Issue three: Emergency response mechanisms are difficult to respond to sudden major public health events that threaten people's health.
文章特别分析了疫情初期核酸检测能力不足的问题。
In particular, the article analyzes the deficiency of nucleic acid detection ability in the early stage of epidemic.
作者认为：面对疫情突袭, 病毒的检测与分离环节暴露出的诸多问题, 尽管现有的技术 发展能够确保在最短时间研发出病毒检测试剂盒, 但是平时作为三类医疗器械的检测试剂盒需要几年时间才能正式上市。
The authors believe that the detection and isolation of virus in the face of the epidemic attack has revealed many problems, although the current technological development can ensure that the virus detection kit is developed in the shortest time, but usually it takes several years for the test kit as a three-type medical device to go on the market.
在突发疫情来临时, 如何启动应急程序, 在确保检测质量及生物安全的前提下以最快速度将检测权限下放到有资质的医疗机构成为了疫情防控的核心问题之一。
It is one of the core problems of epidemic prevention and control how to activate the emergency procedure to distribute the detection authority to qualified medical institutions in the quickest speed under the premise of ensuring the quality of testing and biosafety.
但此次疫情暴发后, 因为流程尚不清晰, 出现了符合资质的医疗机构迟迟无法获得检测资质, 大量疑似病人积压给临床工作带来巨大压力, 而疾控部门由于短时间研发生产的检测试剂质量“良莠不齐”, 样本采集标准化程度不高等问题难以将检测权限下放。
However, after the outbreak, the lack of clarity of the process, the emergence of qualified medical institutions has delayed the acquisition of testing qualifications, a large backlog of suspected patients put great pressure on clinical work, and the CDC has difficulty in decentralizing detection because the quality of detection reagents developed and produced in a short period of time is "mixed."
在这个过程中, 双方的沟通与协商机制在早期不够健全, 影响病毒感染者的早期筛查和确诊, 成为延误诊断的“堰塞湖”。
In this process, the two sides of the communication and consultation mechanism in the early period is not sound, affecting the early screening and diagnosis of infected persons, has become a delayed diagnosis of "Yan Sehu."
问题四：科技创新成果基于临床问题导向的针对性不强, 数据共享及转化应用渠道不通畅, 缺乏相关安全等级实验室。
Question 4: The results of science, technology and innovation are not well targeted based on clinical problems, the channels for data sharing and transformation are not easy, and there is a lack of relevant safety level laboratories.
虽然国家自“十一五”开始就布局实施了传染病重大专项, 并取得了一定的研究成果, 但缺乏对重大传染病发生、发现、确定的系统性整合式全链条研究, 仍严重存在论文导向的问题, 多数研究成果不能对传染病的快速有效防控起到关键技术支撑作用。
Although the state has carried out major special projects for infectious diseases since the Eleventh Five-Year Plan period, and has obtained certain research results, there is still a serious problem of paper-oriented research on the occurrence, discovery and determination of major infectious diseases.
问题五：应对重大突发公共卫生事件的医疗供给和战略储备不足。
Question No. 5: Inadequate medical supplies and strategic reserves for responding to major public health emergencies.
本次疫情显示, 在应对新发突发特大传染病疫情时, 我国各地战略储备普遍短缺, 主要表现在应急医 疗服务人员和场地提供、应急医疗物资储备和生产方面。
This epidemic has shown that, in responding to new outbreaks of mega-infectious diseases, there is a general shortage of strategic reserves in various parts of the country, mainly in the provision of emergency medical personnel and sites, emergency medical supplies and production.
2月11日凌晨，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布第11号和第12号通告，要求发热患者不得跨区就诊；即日起，武汉市所有住宅小区实行封闭管理。
In the early morning hours of February 11, the Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued No.1 and 12, requiring febrile patients not to cross-district consultation; that day, all residential areas in Wuhan city to implement the closed management.
问题六：突发公共卫生事件中暴露出的一些干部专业化能力不足及缺乏循证决策能力的短板。
The sixth problem is the shortage of professional ability and evidence-based decision-making ability of some cadres exposed in public health emergencies.
文章认为，地区主要领导是公共卫生事件中的指挥主体, 在公共卫生事件萌芽阶段的早期判断与应对上, 极为需要第一时间组织专家团队提供决策建议(而不是一味等中央专家组的意见以及疫情的国家正式发布)。
The paper argues that the regional leaders are the command subjects in public health events. In the early judgment and response of the germination stage of public health events, there is a great need to organize expert teams to provide decision-making advice at the first time (instead of waiting for the opinions of the central expert group and the official release of the epidemic country).
武汉作为国内临床医疗、公共卫生及病毒研究最豪华的专业阵容所在地, 此次专业团队在当地政府早期疫情判断及应对决策过程中的作用似乎没有得到最大发挥, 是需要深入思考与反省的。
Wuhan is the most luxurious professional lineup for clinical medicine, public health and virus research in China. The role of Wuhan professional team in the local government's early diagnosis and decision-making process seems to have been under-utilized.
问题七：突发公共卫生事件舆情应对和舆论引导能力存在较大缺陷。
Question 7: There are great defects in public opinion response and guidance ability in public health emergencies.
文章分析认为本期疫情中舆论应对存在三大缺陷：首先, 舆情应对理念落后，以 “封、堵、防”为核心的旧有舆情治理理念既不能及时杜绝舆情危机的发生, 更可能因为应对“失语”造成次生舆情危机的产生, 致使民众产生负面社会心态。
First, the old idea of public opinion management, with "seal, block and prevent" as the core, can not put an end to the crisis of public opinion in time, and it is more likely to cause the public to have a negative social mentality because of the crisis of secondary public opinion caused by the aphasia.
其次, 舆情应对能力不足，如发布会风波、红会风波两起风波后续引发的舆情效应对政府公信力产生较大冲击, 而其背后则反映出当前作为治理主体的各级政府、相关机构并没有把舆情应对能力的提升摆在足够重要的位置。
Secondly, the public opinion response ability is insufficient, such as the press conference disturbance, the Red Cross Society storm caused by the two subsequent public opinion effects on the government credibility, and its backside reflects that the current government as the main body of governance at all levels, related institutions have not placed enough emphasis on raising the ability to respond to public opinion.
第三,“体制内舆论场”和“民间舆论场”分歧日甚，主流媒体在很多时候重点关注更加全局和宏观的疫情防控问题, 而社交媒体不设门槛, 很大程度上表达不满抗议, 甚至发布造成公众恐慌的谣言。
Third, the gap between the "public opinion field" and "civil opinion field" is growing, with the mainstream media focusing on more general and macro-level epidemic prevention and control issues in many cases, while social media are open-ended, largely expressing dissatisfaction and protest and even spreading rumours of public panic.
及时澄清事实, 公布实情, 消除谣言应该远比简单的“删帖”更有正面效果。
It should be far more positive to clarify the facts in time, publish the truth and dispel rumors than simply "abridge."
当前,正值新型冠状病毒感染疫情 防控关键期, 必须尽快分析当前舆情中的问题, 及时回 应舆论关切, 才能有效澄清事实、解疑释惑。
At present, this is a critical period for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection. It is necessary to analyze the current situation of public opinion as soon as possible and to respond to the public's concern.
武汉协和医院肿瘤中心风雪中转运收治病人　刘坤维｜摄问题八：疫情发生后“次生灾害”研判和应对体系有待加强。
Wuhan Concorde Hospital Oncology Center in the wind and snow transshipment patients Liu Kun-wei problem eight: after the outbreak of "secondary disasters" research and response system needs to be strengthened.
文中提醒：但在决胜疫情防控战、绝大多数医疗资源向新冠病毒感染者倾斜的同时, 我们也必须注意到还有大量的肿瘤、外伤、尿毒症、其他感染等非新冠肺炎的患者等待救治。
But while the battle for control of the disease and the vast majority of medical resources are tilted toward those infected with the new crown virus, we must also note that there are still a large number of patients with non-crown pneumonia, such as tumours, trauma, uremia and other infections.
如何合理调配医疗资源、建立均衡的医疗保障体系也是确保人民健康、维护社会秩序的当务之急。
How to allocate medical resources rationally and establish a balanced medical security system is also an urgent task to ensure people's health and maintain social order.
问题九：生态文明理念缺位, 野生动物市场监管乏力。
Issue 9: The idea of ecological civilization is absent and the wildlife market is poorly regulated.
野生动物是许多严重新发疫病的自然宿主,有数据显示目前70%的新发传染病, 均来源于野生动物。
Wild animals are the natural hosts for many serious new epidemics, and data show that 70 per cent of new infections are currently occurring in wildlife.
由于理念缺位和市场监管乏力,国内依旧存在公然销售野生动物及其制品以及以食用为目的非法捕猎、运输、买卖等乱象。
Because of the lack of concept and weak market supervision, there are still some chaotic phenomena in China, such as the open sale of wildlife and its products and the illegal hunting, transportation and trading for food.
问题十：民众的公民素质和科学素养亟待提升。
Question 10: The civic quality and scientific literacy of the people urgently need to be improved.
公安部刑侦局的报告显示, 目前全国已有超过20名新型冠状病毒肺炎患者故意隐 瞒病例, 此外, 在疫情防治时期制造和贩卖假口罩、恶意造谣或发布误导信息、盲目抢购各类物资、聚集性病例、歧视武汉人等现象也时有报道。
The report of the Criminal Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security shows that more than 20 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been concealed deliberately. In addition, cases of fake masks, malicious rumors or misleading information, indiscriminate buying of various materials, cases of conglomeration and discrimination against Wuhan people have also been reported in the epidemic prevention and treatment period.
文章认为，上述问题表明我们国家在提升公民素质的这条道路上还有很长的一段路要走。
The article believes that the above-mentioned problems show that our country has a long way to go in improving the quality of its citizens.
论文最后表示：我们相信风雨过后是阳光, 这次疫情一定会被战胜! 但是, 这次付出的代价也许难以估量。
Finally, we believe that after the storm is the sun, this epidemic will be overcome! But the cost may be incalculable.
吃一堑, 长一智, 必须成为我们的不二选择! 总结经验, 吸取教训, 并认真实施, 将有力推动国家治理体系建设和治理能力现代化征程!征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Learning from experience, lessons learned, and serious implementation will give a strong impetus to the cause of building national governance systems and modernizing governance capabilities! The Call for New People is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·抗疫期间已有多位医生殉职，除了痛心，接下来该做什么·这场大考里还有一面“全身镜”·口述实录 | 老婆，对不起了，我这辆车只能接送医生护士新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all go over there = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
上海学界发表重磅文章，反思新冠疫情中暴露出的十大问题。
Shanghai academic circles published a heavy-weight article, reflecting on the new crown epidemic exposed in the ten problems.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
