给艾滋感染者送药的武汉外地人。
Wuhan outsiders who send medicine to people infected with AIDS.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
GS乐点                      。
GS Music Point.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
独立杂志，关注性少数群体的存在与生存。
Independent magazine focusing on the existence and survival of sexual minorities.
。
.
2月8日，元宵节。
February 8th, Lantern Festival.
在这一天，一家人和和美美地吃完象征着团圆的汤圆，传统的农历春节就进入了尾声。
On this day, the family and delicious food symbolizing the reunion of the Tang Yuan, the traditional Lunar New Year is coming to an end.
但没能回到老家浙江、留在武汉的申明，看了看窗外的天气，云朵层层，太阳偶尔洒下些许阳光。
But did not return to his hometown Zhejiang, stay in Wuhan affirmed, looked out of the window of the weather, clouds layer upon layer, the sun occasionally shed a little sunshine.
起床后，他一边听着疫情播报，一边准备亲自做些汤圆，也算是一个人过了节。
After getting up, he listened to the spread of the epidemic, while preparing to do some soup dumplings himself, is a person's holiday.
原计划申明下午要送一位A友（艾滋病病毒感染者，以下同）去武汉市蔡甸区金银潭医院取药。
The original plan to send a friend (HIV-infected, following the same) to Wuhan City Chaidian gold and silver pool hospital to get medicine.
已经封城17天了，没有人能适应曾经喧嚣、叫嚷、闹哄哄的武汉变得安静、空旷、失去烟火气。
The city has been closed for 17 days, no one can adapt to the once noisy, noisy, noisy Wuhan has become quiet, empty, lost fireworks.
而疫情并没有得到控制的迹象。
And there is no sign that the epidemic is under control.
看着锅里的水花渐渐翻腾，手机忽然响了，临时又有另两位A友想上午去取药，社群组织的工作人员问申明是不是方便现在出车去接送。
Watching the pot of water gradually churn, the phone suddenly rang, temporary and two other A friends want to get medicine in the morning, community organizations staff asked whether it is convenient to travel now to pick up.
申明算了一下时间，现在出门，从自己住的小区到A友的小区、再到金银潭医院，再返回，基本上就需要出发去接下午预约好的那位A友了。
I'm going to go out from my neighborhood to A-friend's, to gold and silver pool hospital, and then back again. Basically, I need to go to pick up the friend I booked in the afternoon.
“这样也好，可以省下口罩，而且回到家里也只需要冲一次澡，比较省事。
"It's just as well to save face masks and just take a shower when you get home.
”申明回复了信息，关掉火，开始穿衣服、防护服，戴口罩。
The statement replied, turning off the fire and starting to dress, protective clothing and a mask.
而汤圆，等下回来再做吧。
And Tangyuan, you can do it later.
也许吃汤圆的时候，还可以和远在浙江的父母视频，“他们一开始很不同意我留在武汉的。
Perhaps eat soup Yuan, but also far away in Zhejiang parents video, "they initially very much disapprove of my stay in Wuhan.
” 不回家过年提前一个月，申明订好了1月22日下午返回浙江的机票。
We have booked a flight back to Zhejiang on the afternoon of January 22, one month before the lunar new year.
在武汉一年半的时间，这是他第二次准备带着武汉特产回到浙江的乡下老家。
In Wuhan for a year and a half, this is his second time to take Wuhan specialty back to his hometown in the countryside.
一向喜甜的父母偶尔吃一点武汉的火辣食物，觉得挺新鲜有趣。
Always sweet parents occasionally eat a little Wuhan hot food, feel very fresh and interesting.
1月20日，正在整理行李的申明接到了准男友的信息，“你这两天怎么样？”申明先是一愣，上一次见面还是两天前，他们约在长江边散了步。
On Jan. 20, while packing, they received a message from her boyfriend-to-be, "How are you these two days?" The statement was stunned. The last time they met, two days earlier, they had walked around the Yangtze River.
两人接触三个多月了，彼此都有好感，只是在等待一个合适的时机来确定关系。
The two have been in contact for more than three months and have a good opinion of each other, just waiting for an appropriate moment to determine their relationship.
还没等申明回答，准男友又发来消息，“我爸爸基本上确诊了。
Before the statement could be answered, my boyfriend-to-be sent back, "My dad's basically diagnosed.
妈妈和我也都开始发烧。
Mom and I are both starting to have a fever.
我们现在准备去医院，如果有床位就会住院了。
We're going to the hospital now. We'll be hospitalized if we have beds.
”短短几分钟，对于申明来说，仿佛是很久以前那次高危性行为之后，被告知要赶快去做检测一般。
In just a few minutes, it seemed to the statement that after that high-risk sexual act a long time ago, he had been told to go for a test.
1月20日起，武汉市内已经越来越多的人出现发热迹象。
Since Jan. 20, more and more people in Wuhan have been showing signs of fever.
民众之间口口相传，这一次的肺炎来势汹汹。
Pneumonia, this time, has been raging among the population.
虽然那时申明还不知道这次的疫情被称为新型冠状病毒引发的肺炎，但眼下他最担心的是需要赶快确诊，以便决定要不要回家。
While it was not known at the time that the outbreak was known to be the new coronavirus-induced pneumonia, what worried him most was the need for an urgent diagnosis to decide whether or not to go home.
1月21日。
January 21.
“我没敢去市内的医院，”当时申明还不确定如何更好地保护自己，“我选择了位于不算市区的金银潭医院。
"I didn't dare go to the city hospital," the statement said at the time. "I chose the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, which is not an urban area.
开车要半个多小时。
It takes more than half an hour to drive.
去做了检查后，医生认为我没有感染，建议我在家观察。
After the examination, the doctor decided that I was not infected and advised me to observe it at home.
”幸运的是，直到今天，申明也没有任何感染的迹象。
Fortunately, to this day, the statement shows no sign of infection.
申明成长在极为注重传统和家族团圆的村落，不回家过年，几乎等同于大逆不道。
Affirm that growing up in villages that attach great importance to tradition and family reunion and do not return home for the New Year is almost tantamount to treason.
1月21日那一晚，他没有睡好。
He did not sleep well on the night of 21 January.
在别人看来不过是不回家过年，对于他来说是对父母的反抗，“他们还不知道我是同性恋，就算我不出柜，可能也面对着不结婚或者以后更多次的过年不回家。
For others, it was just not going home for the New Year. For him, it was a rebellion against his parents. "They didn't know I was gay, and even if I didn't come out, I probably wouldn't get married or go home many times in the coming New Year.
”申明想试试。
"Affirmed that he wanted to try.
马上就三十岁的他，以有可能感染新冠肺炎为理由不回家，也得到了家人的同意。
Immediately after the age of 30, he refused to return home on the grounds that he was at risk of contracting pneumonia, with the consent of his family.
在退掉了机票的22日，申明做了一件换做以前一定不会做的事：他去了寺庙，为准男友和家人祈福，希望他们早日康复。
On the 22nd, he said he had done something he would never have done before: he went to the temple to pray for his future boyfriend and family, hoping that they would recover soon.
而这些似乎还不够。
And that doesn't seem to be enough.
在1月25日，申明报名成为了一名专门接送A友的爱心志愿者司机。
On January 25, he signed up as a caring volunteer driver to pick up A friends.
“因为我很幸运吧！报名的那一天，我就看到小区里小超市的店主发了朋友圈，说他那里还有口罩，我立刻去买了二十个。
On the day I signed up, I saw the owner of a small supermarket in the neighborhood send out a circle of friends saying he still had a mask there, and I immediately went and bought twenty.
”他觉得自己准备好了。
He felt himself ready.
你也是感染者么？1月20日后，武汉的天气阴雨连绵，这让很多人心情更加压抑。
Are you also infected? After January 20, the weather in Wuhan continuous rain, which makes many people more depressed.
越来越多的医护人员从全国各地奔赴武汉，不断加入对疫情的抵抗中去，申明在浙江老家的父母每天都在和申明联系，时不时还会埋怨他为什么要留在武汉。
More and more medical workers are coming to Wuhan from all over the country to join the fight against the epidemic, affirming that their parents in Zhejiang province are making contact every day and occasionally complaining about why he stayed in Wuhan.
而在申明承受着压力的时候，第一个接送A友的任务到来了。
And when I said I was under pressure, I was the first to pick up A friend.
申明更没想到的是，在接下来的一周里，要开近五百公里，这几乎是平时两个月的开车公里数，“如果不是封城，武汉的交通其实很糟糕，经常堵车。
"Even more unexpected was the fact that in the following week, it would have taken nearly 500 kilometers, almost two months' driving distance." If it hadn't been for the traffic in Wuhan, which is really bad and often blocked, "the statement said.
”申明每天都乘坐公共交通上下班，只有周末偶尔才会开车去市郊爬山。
Affirms that it takes public transportation to and from work every day and only occasionally does it drive to the outskirts of the city on weekends.
第一位A友来自上海，武汉是他这次长途旅行的最后一站，A友的计划是在1月23日下午回到上海。
The first A friend is from Shanghai, Wuhan is the last stop of his long trip, A friend's plan is to return to Shanghai on January 23 afternoon.
武汉封城，他被迫留了下来。
Wuhan closed the city, he was forced to stay.
申明虽不是A友，但在他看来，A友在确定感染的时候，身体已受到重创，“如果再断药，意味着他们要面对第二次伤害。
The statement was not a friend of A's, but in his view, A's body had already been badly hurt when the infection was confirmed.
”这是申明对断药的理解，也许不够准确，但他真切地感受到了他们的害怕、忧虑和恐慌。
This was an affirmation of an understanding of stuttering, perhaps imprecisely, but he felt their fear, their anxiety, and their panic.
这是申明第一次载着A友去武汉市艾滋病定点医院金银潭医院取药。
This is the first time to take A friends to Wuhan AIDS Dingtan Hospital to pick up medicine.
那时他还没有防护服，能保护自己的只有口罩。
He didn't have protective clothing, and all he could protect himself was a mask.
这位来自上海的A友虽然是第一次异地取药，但在打了很多电话后，他也提前完成了准备工作，得到了武汉同志中心的指导，进一步联系到了金银潭医院的医生。
Although the A friend from Shanghai was the first time to get medicine from other places, after making many phone calls, he finished his preparations ahead of time and got guidance from Wuhan Gay Center.
这也几乎成为了每个异地取药的A友要经历的准备过程。
It has also become almost a preparatory process for every A friend who gets a drug in a different place.
申明将车开到指定地点时，A友已经站在路边等待了。
By the time they reached the designated place, A-friend had already stood by the side of the road waiting.
那天申明戴了三个口罩，后来这让他有些心疼，毕竟口罩是珍贵的防护物资。
The statement said he was wearing three face masks, which made him a little heartbroken. After all, they were precious protective material.
那两天在接送时，申明会将驾驶位的车窗摇开，关闭车内空调，让空气流通起来，减少疫情感染的概率。
During the two-day pickup, it was stated that the windows of the driving spaces would be rolled open, the air conditioners would be turned off and the air would be ventilated to reduce the probability of infection.
申明到了医院才发现，艾滋病门诊并没有和发热门诊在一起，而是单独位于走廊的尽头，甚至不需要经过发热门诊。
It was confirmed at the hospital that the AIDS clinic was not with the fever clinic, but was located at the end of the corridor alone and did not even require a fever clinic.
1月26日、27日，武汉的天气依旧阴沉，时不时下着小雨。
On January 26 and 27, the weather in Wuhan is still gloomy, occasionally drizzle.
武汉同志中心的工作人员在得知申明的情况后，为他送来了防护服和口罩等防护用品。
Wuhan Comrade Center staff learned of the situation, he was sent to protective clothing and masks and other protective supplies.
从第二次接送A友前往金银潭医院起，申明不再像第一次那样紧张。
From the second pick-up of friend A to gold and silver pool hospital, the statement is no longer as tense as the first.
他会陪同病友走到走廊尽头，然后在艾滋病门诊的门口等待就诊和取药。
He would accompany his patients to the end of the corridor and then wait at the gate of the AIDS clinic for treatment and medication.
三四次后，申明甚至可以告诉这些因为封城而滞留在武汉的异地病友，“沿着这条走廊走到头，最里面的就是门诊，在那里取药。
Three or four times later, the statement could even tell the patients, who had been stranded in Wuhan because of the siege, to "walk down this corridor to the end, the innermost part is the outpatient clinic, where they can get the medicine.
”由于疫情的影响，艾滋病门诊的医生不断提高效率。
As a result of the epidemic, doctors at the AIDS clinic are improving their efficiency.
一些常规的一线二线药物组合可以直接在门诊领取。
Some conventional first-line second-line drug combinations are available directly at the clinic.
特殊的药物需要医生开出处方的，耗时会久一点。
Special medications require a prescription from a doctor and take a little longer.
但通常都会控制在每个A友在十五到二十分钟内能够拿到一周到半个月的药物。
But it's usually controlled within 15 to 20 minutes of each A friend getting a week to half a month's worth of medication.
最多的一次，申明载了三位A友前往医院。
For the most part, the statement carried three A-friends to the hospital.
那天，有五六位武汉本地的A友也在门诊就诊和取药。
On that day, five or six local Wuhan A friends are also out-patient consultations and get medicine.
申明在医院门外等待了一个多小时。
Declared waiting outside the hospital for more than an hour.
为避免飞沫传染，通常A友们在车上是不会讲太多的话的。
To avoid froth, friends A usually don't say much on the bus.
反而看完门诊、取到药物以后，一方面要等待其他人，一方面得到一周或者半个月的药物供给后心情也轻松了些许，大家会站在比较空旷的地方聊聊天。
On the other hand, waiting for someone else, while getting a week or half a month's supply of medicine eased the mood, and people would stand in the open to chat.
“你也是感染者吗？”几乎每一个A友都会问申明这个问题。
"Are you also infected?" Nearly every A friend asks this question.
“我不是。
"I'm not.
”申明老实回答，但他认为，对于A友的关怀，不应该只来自于A友本身，艾滋病只是一种慢性病，“大家都是普通人。
"The statement is honest, but he believes that concern for A friends should not come from A friends alone. AIDS is a chronic disease.
”“我把你删掉了”疫情、封城，成了压在武汉人心上的巨石。
"" I deleted you "epidemic situation, sealed the city, has become pressure on the hearts of Wuhan on the huge stone.
对A友来说，又比别人多了一样：艾滋、断药。
To A friend, also more than others the same: AIDS, medicine.
很多滞留武汉的A友，哪怕是本地人，也经常夜里睡不好，心里总像有事。
Many friends who stay in Wuhan, even the local people, often sleep at night, always feel like something.
也许申明不愿呆在家里默默承受封城带来的无形压力，也许他觉得忙碌起来会让人心里更加轻松。
Perhaps affirming that he did not want to stay at home and quietly endure the pressure of closure, perhaps he felt more relaxed when he became busy.
2月1日，在已经接送了十余位A友取到药物的申明眼中，封城十天的武汉更显得安静和困苦。
Wuhan, the city's 10-day-old capital, was even quieter and more difficult, according to a statement on Feb. 1, which had already taken more than a dozen A friends to get medicine.
路过汉口解放大道，除了路边大楼上面写着“武汉加油”，几乎没有什么灯光。
Hankou Liberation Road, in addition to the roadside building above the written "Wuhan refueling," almost no lights.
最繁华的武广商场只留下了一块广告牌还在亮着，其余的地方一片暗淡。
The most prosperous Wuguang shopping mall left only a billboard still on and the rest of the area was dark.
武广大楼没有点亮的2020装饰，是之前跨年的时候装饰的，很漂亮的外墙灯饰，现在仿佛被撕落了外套，孤零零地立在阴冷的天气中。
Wu vast buildings unlit 2020 decoration, is the previous multi-year decoration, beautiful exterior lighting, now seems to be torn off the coat, stand alone in the cold weather.
这天，申明从社群组织处得到的最新任务是接送一位异常安静的A友。
On this day, the latest announcement from the community organization is to deliver an unusually quiet A friend.
这位A友全程带着防护镜和口罩，身穿防护服，言语极少，一直沉默着坐在后排。
The A friend, who wore protective goggles and masks and few words, sat in the back row in silence.
等到A友取到药物、返回家中，换做别人都会轻松很多，但他仍然表现得异常紧张。
By the time A gets the medicine and returns home, it will be a lot easier for everyone else, but he's still very nervous.
在接送A友取药的过程中，申明不会主动询问对方的姓名，更不会打听其家庭住址。
In the process of taking A friend to pick up the medicine, the declaration will not ask the name of the other party, let alone ask for his home address.
一次，申明到达了A友指定的小区门口，等了近二十分钟，对方才磨磨蹭蹭地出来。
On one occasion, the statement reached the gate of A-friend's designated area and waited for nearly 20 minutes before the other party dawdled out.
从那一次开始，申明会主动添加要接送的A友的微信，避免失联。
From that point on, the announcement will automatically add a message to the A friend to pick up, to avoid disconnection.
毕竟正如同一位志愿者司机说过的，“我们这是冒着生命危险出来的。
After all, as one volunteer driver once said, "We're risking our lives to come out.
”回到家，申明正在做饭的时候，这位异常沉默的A友忽然主动联系申明，客客气气地说了很多道谢的话，申明还没明白他的意思，对方忽然说道，“我把你删掉了。
When he got home and declared that he was cooking, the unusually silent A friend suddenly volunteered to contact him and said thank you kindly, affirming that he had not understood him, when suddenly he said, "I deleted you.
”申明觉得很委屈。
"The statement feels wronged.
虽然做志愿者不是为了让别人感激，但这种不信任感让他今天的奔波似乎有些可笑。
Though not intended to impress others, this distrust makes his trip today seem laughable.
“也许他自己也接受不了感染了艾滋病，也不希望像我这样的陌生人知道他是一个A友。
"Maybe he can't live with AIDS himself and doesn't want strangers like me to know he's an A-friend.
”哪怕别人什么都没做，对内心十分惶恐的A友来说，也是一种潜在的威胁。
"Even if no one else does anything, it can be a potential threat to a friend who is in deep fear.
申明没有告诉准男友自己做志愿者的事。
The statement didn't tell her boyfriend about volunteering on her own.
这段日子，准男友和家人都入院治疗。
During this time, both her boyfriend and family are hospitalized.
“他平时很少看手机，大部分时间我们就是在微信上约好见面的地点，”申明说，“这一次，我却只能在微信上陪他。
"He seldom watches his cell phone, and most of the time we meet on a microphone," the statement said. "This time, I could only accompany him on a microphone.
我不敢告诉他太多不好的消息，怕他更有压力。
I dare not tell him too much bad news for fear that he will be more pressured.
每天我都是把治愈人员的数量、看到的一些能鼓励人的视频发给他。
Every day I send him videos of the number of healers and encouraging people I see.
”一开始准男友发烧咳嗽，身体不舒服，每天最多回复三五条信息。
At first her boyfriend-to-be developed a fever and coughed, and responded to up to 35 messages a day.
到了1月底，他逐渐康复，“也习惯了在微信上和我聊天。
By the end of January, he was recovering and "used to chatting with me on micro-letters.
这也算是这次疫情改变了我们俩的交往模式吧。
This is the kind of epidemic that has changed the way we interact.
”直到2月3日准男友出院，申明才告诉他自己做志愿者。
He didn't volunteer until February 3, when his would-be boyfriend was released from the hospital.
“要不要我去接你？你们去住院，你也没让我去送。
"Do you want me to pick you up? You went to the hospital and you didn't ask me to.
”准男友拒绝了，“现在你安心去帮别人。
The boyfriend-to-be refused, "Now you can go and help people.
” 我想留在这个城市了随着封城，武汉市内各区逐步封闭。
"I wanted to stay in the city ， and with it the districts of Wuhan became gradually closed ．"
不同区域之间需要通行证才能开车通过。
Permits are required between different areas to drive through.
2月4日，申明要接送两位A友。
On 4 February, the two A friends were confirmed to be picked up.
在他意料之外的是，第一位A友是一位年过半百的老人，坐在后排。
To his surprise, the first friend was an elderly man over fifty, sitting in the back row.
第二位A友同样超过了五十岁，见到后排有人，便坐到了前排。
The second friend, also over 50, saw someone in the back and sat in the front row.
申明很佩服他们，“这么大年纪的人，都不是武汉本地人，而且也不会讲普通话，但却能够通过他们户籍所在地的社群组织，绕了不知道多少个弯，最后联系到武汉相关社区的工作人员。
"No one of this age is a native Wuhan native and cannot speak Mandarin, but he has been able to get around an unknown number of corners through the community organizations where they are domiciled and finally contact the staff of Wuhan-related communities," the statement said.
”两位老年A友一路上不停地对申明说着感谢，坐在前排的老人还掏出一包烟，要送给申明。
"The two older A's friends kept saying thank you all the way to the affirmation, and the old man in the front row pulled out a pack of cigarettes for the declaration.
申明忙拒绝了。
The affirmation refused hastily.
等到两位老人在申明帮忙用普通话“翻译”下，分别开好了药物，又不约而同地站在金银潭医院门口，第一时间给之前帮助过他们的爱心人士一一打电话道谢。
When the two elderly people affirmed to help with the "interpretation" of Putonghua, opened the drugs, but also the same time stood in front of the gold and silver pool hospital, the first time to help them before the love people called to thank.
申明被这两位老人感动了。
The two old men were moved by the affirmation.
“很多老年人和对网络不熟悉的人，在疫情中是最容易被忽视的，因为他们无法发声。
"Many older people and people unfamiliar with the Internet are among the most neglected in the epidemic because they are unable to speak out.
这两位老人，虽然素不相识，但能看得出，他们这一次真的是被逼急了。
The two old men, though they did not know each other, could see that they were really in a hurry this time.
”与老年A友的彬彬有礼相比，申明送的A友大部分都是二十多岁的年轻人，甚至还有20岁的小孩子。
Compared with the civility of older A friends, the majority of A-friends reported being in their 20s and even 20-year-olds.
这位小孩子在申明送他回到家后，主动要求加微信，在2月5日，小孩子忽然联系申明，“我和家人吵架了，能不能把我接出去？”申明很诧异，“你怎么了？这个时候不要出来，家里人会担心的。
After stating that he would be sent home, the child offered to write a letter to him. On February 5, the child suddenly contacted him saying, "My family and I are quarrelling, can you pick me up?" The statement was surprised, "What's the matter? Don't come out this time.
”但小孩子接连几天不断地联系申明，表示想来他这里住。
But the little boy kept contacting him for days saying he wanted to stay.
最后，申明被逼的没办法，只能保持沉默。
Finally, the affirmation was forced to have no choice but to remain silent.
有时候，申明回到家会觉得很疲倦。
Sometimes when you say "home" you feel tired.
他很想休息一下。
He is eager to have a rest.
可第二天接到工作任务，依旧会穿好防护服出门。
Can receive the work the next day, will continue to wear protective clothing to go out.
“听说现在摄像头如果拍到私家车在外面行驶，可能以后要扣分吧？”申明说，“都是大家传的消息。
"I heard that now if the camera caught the private car driving outside, may have to deduct points in the future?" The statement said, "It is everyone's message.
可我想自己反正已经出去开了这么多天了，就继续接送A友吧。
But I think I have been out of the car for so many days anyway, continue to pick up A friend bar.
”2月8日，一直到夜里九点多，申明才忙完回到家中。
It was not until nine o'clock in the evening, on the 8th of February, that the declaration was made.
厨房灶台上的锅里，盛着的还是早上出门前烧开的水，现在已经凉了。
The pot on the kitchen hearth, which was still boiling in the morning, was now cold.
他重新点着火，虽然是元宵节，想自己亲手做汤圆，但回得太晚、肚子太饿，最终还是下了面条了事。
He lit the fire again. Although it was the Lantern Festival, he wanted to make the dumpling by himself, but he came back too late and hungry.
这是他第一次在元宵节没有吃到元宵。
This is his first time in the Lantern Festival did not eat Lantern Festival Lantern Festival.
还是有开心的事的。
There's still something to be happy about.
这一天，申明给准男友送去了口罩和托人开出的药物。
On that day, the statement sent her boyfriend-to-be a mask and prescribed medication.
两个人在距离小区门口几百米的地方见了面。
The two men met a few hundred meters from the gate of the neighborhood.
虽然只不过几分钟的时间，申明还要忙着去接其他A友，但见到准男友出院后精神不错，申明的心情轻松了很多。
Although it was only a few minutes, the statement was busy picking up the other A friends, but it was a relief to see her boyfriend coming out of the hospital.
进入2月以后，申明每次路过长江，都会忍不住多看几眼。
After entering February, I declare that every time I pass the Yangtze River, I can't help but look at it a few more times.
江水依旧滔滔奔过这个城市，黄鹤楼沉默地矗立江岸，凝视着人口过千万的武汉。
River water still rushes through the city, Yellow Crane Tower silently stand on the river bank, staring at the population of more than 10 million Wuhan.
这些天以来，四处奔波接送A友的申明愈发对武汉三镇的庞大和繁杂有了深刻的了解。
These days, the affirmation that carries A friend to and fro all over the place has gained a deeper understanding of the vastness and complexity of Wuhan Sanzhen.
虽然长江大桥上的景观灯已经关闭，但是路上的灯光还在亮着。
Although the view lights on the Changjiang Bridge have been turned off, the lights are still on on the road.
申明不是一个很容易感伤的人，但这段日子里武汉的沉寂，让他觉得这个城市似乎蛰伏了起来。
Affirmation is not a very sentimental person, but the silence of Wuhan these days, let him feel that the city seems dormant.
“我从小就在浙江长大，又在福建读了大学，”申明说，“最开始来到武汉工作，看到有人摔公交车的门、在地铁上打架，真的不太适应。
"I grew up in Zhejiang Province and went to college in Fujian," the statement said. "I first came to Wuhan to work, and saw someone break a bus door and fight on the subway.
感觉这个城市真的太生猛了，生猛里带着粗鲁。
It felt like the city was really raw, raw and rude.
”但疫情到来，因为种种原因，申明选择了留在这里，还成为了一名接送A友的爱心志愿者，“我想留在这个城市了，等疫情过去，也许会买个房子，在这扎根。
But the outbreak has come because, for a variety of reasons, it has chosen to stay here and become a loving volunteer to escort A friends. "I want to stay in the city and maybe buy a house to take root when the epidemic is over.
”而做爱心志愿者接送A友，他说，“我会一直坚持到不再需要我为止。
"As a caring volunteer to drop off A friend, he said," I'll stick it out until I'm no longer needed.
不再需要我就最好啦。
It's best not to need me anymore.
”文中人物为化名采访、撰文 | 吴楠文章和图片版权归联合国艾滋病规划署所有长按二维码关注GS乐点微信号：gayspot投稿邮箱：gayspot_edit@163.com合作QQ:1531514762。
Wu Nan's article and picture rights belong to all UNAIDS directors with a two-dimensional focus on GS music: gayspot mailbox: gayspot _ edit @ 163.com, in collaboration with QQ: 1531514762.
GS乐点。
GS Music Point.
原创不易，多谢小主打赏。
Original not easy, thank you very much.
。
.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
原创不易，多谢小主打赏。
Original not easy, thank you very much.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
给艾滋感染者送药的武汉外地人。
Wuhan outsiders who send medicine to people infected with AIDS.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GS乐点";。
Var nickname = & quot; GS & quot;;
var msg_title = "给艾滋感染者送药的武汉外地人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "等疫情过去，我想留在武汉这个城市。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; When the epidemic passed, I wanted to stay in Wuhan, the city.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="GS乐点";。
Var title = & quot; GS & quot;;
