武汉政策加码：出院后还要集中隔离2周，新冠肺炎怎样才算治愈？。
Wuhan policy add code: After discharge from hospital still must concentrate quarantine 2 weeks, how does new crown pneumonia calculate cure?
吴靖王晨吴晔婷。
Wu selected Wang Chen Ting.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
一些患者出院后，复查核酸检测结果又呈阳性，还有的肺部阴影加重。
Some patients discharged from the hospital, review of the nucleic acid test results are positive, and some lung shadows increased.
这些患者不仅自身症状反复，还可能成为新的传染源。
These patients not only repeated their own symptoms, but may also become a new source of infection.
问题的根源，是这些患者并未真正治愈就出院。
The root of the problem is that the patients were discharged before they were really cured.
出院标准在制定和执行层面，都还有完善空间。
There is still room for improvement in the formulation and implementation of discharge standards.
有专家正在研究新的出院标准，比如判断消化道病毒留存的“肛拭子”检测。
Experts are working on new discharge criteria, such as "anal wiping" tests to determine what remains of the digestive tract virus.
按现有标准出院的患者，为了确保安全，需要集中隔离观察14天。
Patients discharged according to existing standards require intensive isolation for 14 days in order to ensure safety.
出院潮的到来，也为防疫工作增加了新的难点。
The arrival of discharge tide has also added new difficulties for epidemic prevention work.
△ 图片来源：yestone2月22日，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布公告，从当天开始，新冠肺炎治愈出院患者须到指定场所统一实施为期14天的免费康复隔离和医学观察。
2007-9-25 09: 48 Hospital Authority of Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia issued a notice on Feb. 22, 2007. From the same day, patients discharged from hospital with SARS were required to undergo 14 days of free-of-charge isolation and medical observation in designated places.
这一政策出台的原因在于，最近出现多地新冠肺炎患者出院后复查时，核酸检测由出院时的阴性变为阳性。
The reason for this policy is that, in the recent past, when many patients with Newcomial Pneumonia were discharged from hospital, nucleic acid testing changed from negative to positive.
出院患者复查核酸转阳，早在今年1月中旬，已陆续在武汉市治愈出院的医护人员身上发生。
As early as mid-January this year, patients discharged from hospital have been cured in Wuhan on the body of medical personnel.
各家医院针对自己的医护人员采取了出院标准的严格化，或将出院后的医护人员进行集中隔离14天。
Hospitals have tightened discharge standards for their own health-care workers or have concentrated quarantine for 14 days after discharge from hospitals.
这部分患者，不仅自身病情在出院后出现反复，而且有可能具备传染性。
This part of the patients, not only their own illness after discharge from the hospital repeated, and may be infectious.
在湖北之外，其他城市医疗资源相对充足，有的患者可以做多次核酸检测，转阴后才出院，也有的城市如浙江省余姚市，对恢复期患者的管理要求是进行14天集中隔离。
Outside Hubei, other cities have relatively abundant medical resources.Some patients can be tested for nucleic acids several times before being discharged after turning negative, while others, such as Yuyao City in Zhejiang Province, require intensive isolation for 14 days.
但在确诊患者已超过4.6万人的武汉市，出院患者的集中管理，将面临巨大挑战。
But in Wuhan, where more than 46,000 patients have been diagnosed, centralized management of patients discharged from hospitals will face enormous challenges.
2月16日~2月22日，一周时间，武汉市治愈出院患者超过4500人。
Feb. 16 to Feb. 22, a week, Wuhan City cured more than 4,500 patients discharged from the hospital.
据知情人士透露，武汉市目前正在大量征用酒店，以备出院患者集中隔离之用。
According to people familiar with the matter, Wuhan City is currently a large number of requisitioned hotels, in preparation for hospital patients concentrated isolation.
患者出院后，将由街道统一送到定点酒店进行隔离观察。
After discharge from hospital, patients will be unified from the streets to designated hotels for quarantine observation.
新冠肺炎患者出院后，复查核酸又呈阳性武汉中南医院医学影像科主任徐海波，对12月下旬发生在本院的一起医务人员感染新型冠状病毒事件印象深刻。
After being discharged from hospital, Xu Haibo, director of medical imaging department of Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital, who was positive for nucleic acid reexamination, was impressed with a new coronavirus infection among medical staff at the hospital in late December.
这位职工2019年12月23日开始发热，以为是一般的感冒，顺便也做了一下肺部CT，但影像科同事发现影像非常奇怪，不像一般的病毒性肺炎，便请徐海波会诊。
The worker developed fever on December 23, 2019, thinking it was a common cold and had a lung CT as well, but imaging colleagues found the images strange and, unlike the usual viral pneumonia, asked Xu Haibo to consult him.
当时医院内部已在流传武汉出现不明原因肺炎，发现这位职工的情况之后，医院以当年治疗SARS的方式对其进行隔离治疗。
At that time, the hospital in Wuhan has been circulating unknown causes of pneumonia, found the case of this worker, the hospital to treat SARS in the way of isolation treatment.
住进隔离病房两到三天之后，该职工体温恢复正常，他前后在隔离病房住了一周多，临床症状都已消失，便安排出院。
After two to three days in the isolation ward, the worker's temperature returned to normal. He stayed in the isolation ward for more than a week.
出院前，两次病毒核酸检测都是阴性。
Before discharge, both viral nucleic acid tests were negative.
徐海波也让他再次检查CT，这时候肺部多个病灶都已吸收，阴影很淡薄，回到了早期第一次查CT的症状，徐海波认为是明显吸收好转。
Xu also had him examine the CT again, when multiple lung lesions had been absorbed, the shadow was thin, returned to the early first CT symptoms, Xu Haibo thought is significantly improved absorption.
出院后，这位职工居家隔离了快1个月，也继续吃了一些奥司他韦之类的药物。
After being discharged from the hospital, the worker was kept in isolation for nearly a month and continued to take drugs such as oseltamivir.
2月初，这位职工说要回医院上班，肺部CT检查结果没有问题，但核酸检测结果出乎意料，第一次结果是弱阳性，隔了一天查，还是阳性。
At the beginning of February, the employee said he would return to the hospital. The results of a lung CT scan were good, but the results were unexpected.
随后，徐海波又发现第二起这样的情况。
Later, Xu Haibo found a second such case.
目前虽未对出院医护人员全部进行排查，但已有4人出院后复查核酸检测结果为阳性。
Although not all discharged medical personnel have been screened, but four people have been discharged from the hospital to review the positive results of nucleic acid testing.
1月下旬，武汉市中心医院一名呼吸内科的医生，出院解除隔离后，复查时不仅核酸检测再次回归阳性，肺部阴影也加重了。
In late January, a physician at Wuhan Central Hospital released from isolation and returned not only to positive nucleic acid tests, but also to lung shadows.
此种情况越来越多。
This is increasingly the case.
据知情人士透露，2月中旬，湖北省人民医院两名出院已半月余的医生，复查时同样出现了核酸阳性的情况，只好又回去住院。
According to people familiar with the matter, in mid-February, two doctors who had been discharged from Hubei People's Hospital for more than half a month had returned to the hospital with the same nucleic acid-positive condition.
出院后复查出现核酸阳性，不仅仅在医护人员身上出现。
Reexamination of nucleic acid positive after discharge from hospital is not confined to medical staff.
武汉某社区2月20日的疫情通报中说，“新增2例确诊、1例疑似，皆为前期治愈解除人员”；无独有偶，成都望江锦园也发生了相同的情况，一位治愈后回家隔离的新冠肺炎患者，在10天后复查出现核酸阳性。
"Two new cases were diagnosed and one case is suspected to have been cured in the early stages," said an outbreak notice from a Wuhan community on Feb. 20. "The same happened in Wangjiang Jinyuan, Chengdu, where a patient who was cured and returned home to be quarantined was tested positive for nucleic acid 10 days later.
那些出院后仍携带新冠病毒的患者，很可能成为感染源。
Those who remain with the new crown virus after discharge are likely to be the source of infection.
针对这一问题，一种解决方式在于改变出院标准，另一种方法是，加强出院人员从出院到复查期间的管理。
One solution to this problem is to change discharge criteria, while another is to strengthen the management of discharged persons from discharge to review.
多家医院先是对本院医护人员关于核酸检测的出院标准做了调整，中南医院和湖北省人民医院对医护人员的出院标准由核酸检测二次阴性增加到五次阴性。
First, many hospitals have adjusted the discharge standards for nucleic acid testing, and the discharge standards for medical personnel in Zhongnan Hospital and Hubei People's Hospital have been increased from two to five negative nucleic acid tests.
武汉协和东西湖医院ICU主任袁海涛认为，五次核酸检测隔天一次的话，每个患者的住院周期要延长一周，对于一直紧张的定点医院床位是个挑战，不适合推广至所有患者。
Wu Yuan Haitao, director of the ICU at Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital, said five rounds of nucleic acid testing could prolong the hospitalization cycle by one week per patient, posing a challenge to the already strained hospital beds available to all patients.
武汉协和东西湖医院为本院的医护人员开辟了一个集中隔离区，包括满足出院标准的医护人员，继续在本院集中隔离区隔离14天。
Wuhan Concorde East-West Lake Hospital established a centralized area of separation for its medical staff, including medical staff who met discharge criteria, and continued to be segregated in the College's centralized area of separation for 14 days.
在国家卫健委2月18日发布的第六版诊疗方案中，对出院患者的建议是：“继续进行14天自我健康状况监测，佩戴口罩，有条件的居住在通风良好的单人房间，减少与家人的近距离密切接触，分餐饮食，做好手卫生，避免外出活动。
In the sixth edition of the programme, released on February 18, patients discharged from the hospital were advised to continue monitoring their self-health for 14 days, wearing masks, living in well-ventilated single rooms with conditions, reducing close contact with family members, sharing meals, keeping hands clean and avoiding physical activity.
”出院标准存争议，根源在于未治愈徐海波坦言，尽管还没有大数据统计出来，但有一部分出院的医生，已经发现有病情反复的情况。
The controversy over discharge criteria stems from the fact that Xu Haibo has not been cured and although no big figures are available, some doctors discharged from the hospital have found repeated cases.
这意味着，同样的情况将会出现在其他出院的病患身上。
That means the same thing will happen to other patients who have been discharged.
多位医生认为，导致这一结果的原因在于出院标准。
Doctors say the reason for the results is the discharge criteria.
在第五版和第六版《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》中，两个版本的出院标准相似，都有以下几条：1、体温恢复正常3天以上、呼吸道症状明显好转。
In the 5th and 6th editions of the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection, the discharge standards of the two versions are similar.
2、肺部影像学显示炎症明显吸收（第六版是肺部影像学显示急性渗出性病变明显改善）。
2. Pulmonary imaging showed significant absorption of inflammation (the sixth edition showed a marked improvement in acute exudative lesions).
3、连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性（采样时间间隔至少1天）。
3. Negative detection of nucleic acids for two successive respiratory diseases (at least 1 day interval).
所有人对第一条并无异议，争议主要集中在CT影像学和核酸检测。
Everyone has no objection to the first, which focuses on CT imaging and nucleic acid testing.
比如，两版出院标准之一，都要求医生结合肺部CT做判断。
For example, one of the two versions of the discharge criteria requires doctors to combine lung CT findings.
但肺部影像学检测，标准较为主观。
But the standard of lung imaging examination is subjective.
徐海波认为，出院标准中的炎症“明显吸收”和“明显改善”是模糊描述，究竟多少是明显吸收？没有定量标准。
Xu Haibo thinks, discharge standard inflammation "obvious absorption" and "apparent improvement" is fuzzy description, how much is apparent absorption? There is no quantitative standard.
从CT上看，病灶究竟是要缩小三分之一，三分之二，还是完全吸收掉？还是说只有一点肺部纤维化，指南并没有细化。
The guide does not specify whether the focus should be reduced by one-third, two-thirds, or completely absorbed, or if there is only a little pulmonary fibrosis.
在徐海波看来，出院标准有一个重要的原则，就是出院后该患者不应具备传染性。
In Xu's view, an important principle of discharge criteria is that the patient should not be contagious after discharge from hospital.
他根据自己的临床经验假设，如果这个病灶在CT影像上已经表现出纤维化，按理来说患者就可以出院，因为肺部纤维化是肺泡经过异常正在修复形成的疤痕，意味着到了疾病终末期，一般不再具有传染性。
Based on his own clinical experience, he hypothesized that if the lesion showed fibrosis on CT images, the patient could reasonably be released because pulmonary fibrosis is a scar in the alveoli that is undergoing abnormal repair, meaning that by the end of the disease it is generally no longer infectious.
但他担忧的是，包括SARS在内的其他传染病，已被证实在肺部纤维化阶段没有传染性，而这个病的肺部纤维化是不是也代表没有传染性了，还无法证实。
He is concerned, however, that other infectious diseases, including SARS, have been shown to be non-contagious during the fibrosis phase of the lungs, and that it is impossible to prove that pulmonary fibrosis is also noncontagious.
而且，根据CT影像如何作出判断，和每个影像科医生解读的水平有一定相关性。
Moreover, how CT images are judged has some relevance to the level of interpretation by each imaging surgeon.
CT标准即便定量，也存在每个医生主观判断的不同。
Even if the CT standard is quantitative, there are differences in the subjective judgment of each doctor.
至于核酸检测，其一直是新冠病毒肺炎确诊的重要客观指标，在入院标准和出院标准上，核酸检测起着决定性作用，直接影响患者收治和治疗的最终结果。
As for nucleic acid testing, it has always been an important objective index for the diagnosis of new crown virus pneumonia. Nucleic acid testing plays a decisive role in admission criteria and discharge criteria.
即便出院前检测两次都是阴性，也存在假阴性的可能。
Even if two pre-discharge tests were negative, there was a risk of false negativity.
在专家看来，核酸检测准确率只有30%-50%，这就直接导致了有一部分出院患者体内的新冠病毒未被检测到，这部分患者出院后可能仍具有传染性。
In the experts' view, the accuracy of nucleic acid testing is only 30% -50%, which directly results in some patients being discharged from the hospital without detection of the new crown virus, which may still be infectious after discharge.
武汉大学中南医院医学影像科副主任张笑春解释，新冠患者病情的好转在于病毒载量的变化。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of medical imaging department of Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, explained that the improvement of patients in Xinguan lies in the change of viral load.
一个患者，起初核酸检测是阳性，经过一定治疗好转了。
A patient who initially tested positive for nucleic acid improved with some treatment.
好转的原因是指病毒在一定程度上消灭了一部分，不仅数量上减少，侵犯能力也被弱化。
The reason for the improvement is that the virus has been partly eliminated, not only in terms of numbers, but also in terms of its ability to invade.
病毒的减少，导致上呼吸道的取样部位没有病毒，或者样品的病毒含量较少，这个时候检测的核酸就是阴性，但并不代表肺泡内没有病毒。
A reduction in the number of viruses causes the upper respiratory tract to be sampled without viruses or with fewer viruses in the sample, at which point the nucleic acid tested is negative but does not indicate that there is no virus in the alveoli.
如果看到患者两次核酸检测结果都是阴性，就放人出院，可能会出现病情反复。
If the patient sees two nucleic acid test result is negative, release person is discharged from hospital, can appear repeatedly.
在院治疗的时候，包括吸氧等各种措施都很到位，肺的自身抵抗能力很强，出院后患者的环境改变，可能体内残存的病毒又活跃起来，就造成了其实不是复发而是反复的过程。
In the hospital treatment, including oxygen intake and other measures are in place, lung self-resistance is very strong, patients after discharge from the environment, may be the residual virus in the body to revive, resulting in a process that is not really a relapse but repeated.
治疗让患者向好的方向转化，结果又逆向回来，不是因为核酸检测不精确，而是因为病毒载量的变化，影响了核酸检测的结果。
Treatment changes patients for the better, and the result is reversed, not because nucleic acid testing is inaccurate, but because changes in viral load affect nucleic acid test results.
最关键的一点是，如果患者出院2周后复查核酸检测结果转为阳性，他是否具备传染性？临床上尚未明确。
Most critically, is it clinically unclear whether the patient is infectious if he reviews the nucleic acid test for positive results two weeks after discharge from the hospital.
只有一种途径可以验证，就是看他们跟家人在一起的时候，排除掉家里人跟外界接触的机会后，家人是否感染，但这样的实验违反伦理道德。
The only way to test this is to see if the family is infected when they are with their families, excluding contact with the outside world, but such an experiment would be ethically unethical.
目前，中南医院检验科在突破“核酸检测阳性的低度”。
At present, the South Central Hospital Inspection Department is breaking through "nucleic acid test positive low degree."
寻找低度，是为了找到一个合理的区间，看核酸阳性在哪个区间以内，致病性或者传染性最弱。
The search for low levels is aimed at finding a reasonable range within which nucleic acid-positive individuals are most pathogenic or infectious.
寻找新的出院标准“肛拭子”检测正在研究中有一部分患者出院后复发，既在肺部表现出明显病灶，也在核酸检测上呈现阳性。
Looking for a new discharge standard "anal swab" test. A number of patients have relapsed after discharge from the hospital, showing significant lung lesions and positive nucleic acid tests.
但还有一种情况是，有些人核酸检测是阳性，肺部却表现正常。
But in another case, some people tested positive for nucleic acid, but the lungs behaved normally.
中南医院的另一名职工因为父母感染，他也做了肺部CT和咽拭子检测，结果是肺部出现异常，核酸检测也呈阳性。
Another worker at the South-Central Hospital tested for lung CT and swabs because his parents were infected. The result was an abnormal lung and a positive test for nucleic acid.
在医院住院、隔离一个月后，这位职工的肺部CT显示，炎症几乎完全吸收了，核酸检测的结果却是阳性。
After a month in hospital and isolation, the worker's lung CT showed that inflammation was almost completely absorbed and that nucleic acid tests were positive.
徐海波觉得，这个病毒很诡异，好像可以和人共存，肺部不一定会表现出很强的病变。
Xu felt that the virus was so bizarre that it seemed to coexist with humans and that the lungs did not have to show very strong lesions.
因此，在核酸检测和肺部CT影像之外，研究人员也在寻找新的检测方式。
So, in addition to nucleic acid testing and lung CT imaging, researchers are also looking for new ways to test.
相关专家正在开展新冠病毒“肛拭子”研究。
Experts are working on a new crown virus, "anal wipe."
专家认为，新冠病毒感染最初聚集在上呼吸道，但发病主要是在下呼吸道，随着治疗的进行，上呼吸道很可能检测不到病毒，因此核酸检测是阴性。
Experts believe that the virus initially collects in the upper respiratory tract, but the disease occurs mainly in the lower respiratory tract, and as treatment progresses, the upper respiratory tract is likely not to detect the virus, so nucleic acid testing is negative.
只有进行肺泡灌洗才能检测到病毒，但在现实中这不可能。
Only alveolar lavage can detect the virus, but in reality this is not possible.
他们发现，患者的消化道也会出现新冠病毒，出现的时间滞后于上呼吸道和下呼吸道，基于这一理论，他们正在研究肛拭子检测的可行性。
They are studying the feasibility of anal swabbing based on the theory that patients also develop a new crown virus in their digestive tract, which lags behind the upper and lower respiratory tract.
但一个新冠病毒肺炎患者在呼吸道症状消失后，病毒何时还会在消化道出现？治愈多长时间后，病毒在消化道会消失？要解开这些问题，还需进行大量实验。
But when will the virus appear in the digestive tract after respiratory symptoms disappear, and how long after it has been cured, will the virus disappear in the digestive tract?
如果确定病毒在消化道出现和消失的基本时间，就可以在出院标准上，加上肛试子检测。
If you determine the basic time at which the virus appears and disappears in the digestive tract, you can add anal tests to the discharge criteria.
武汉沌口方舱医院的一位医生谈到，他们在出院标准的临床诊断上，几位专家也综合了一些其它因素，例如发病时长。
A doctor at the chaotic oral cabin hospital said they had combined other factors, such as length of illness, in their clinical diagnosis of discharge criteria.
疾病的潜伏期平均7~10天，最长到14天，发病以后有个病程，比如有的患者发病开始到现在已15天了，期间从来没有做过核酸检测，最近三天又不发烧，像这种患者就优先做核酸检测和肺部CT。
The incubation period of the disease averages 7-10 days, up to 14 days, and there is a course of disease after the onset of the disease, such as 15 days since the onset of the disease, during which no nucleic acid testing has been done, and the last three days have no fever, such patients are prioritized for nucleic acid testing and pulmonary CT.
迎接出院潮，需要善后措施为了确保应收尽收、应治尽治，武汉市现在要做到“床等人”。
To meet the discharge tide, need rehabilitation measures to ensure that the receivable, should be treated, Wuhan City now to do "bed and so on."
不管是收治重症患者的定点医院，还是收治轻症患者的方舱医院，都有加快床位周转、收治更多患者的压力。
There is pressure to speed up the turnover of beds and treat more patients, whether in designated hospitals for the treatment of the seriously ill or in the cabin hospitals for the treatment of patients with mild illnesses.
此外，还有一批患者已渡过病程的各个周期，符合既定出院标准。
In addition, a number of patients have passed the various stages of the course and meet the established discharge criteria.
也就是说，出院潮正在到来。
In other words, the discharge wave is coming.
武汉市新冠患者的出院潮从2月5号开始。
The discharge wave for the Xinguan patients in Wuhan began on February 5.
第一批出院患者集中在定点医院。
The first group of discharged patients were concentrated in designated hospitals.
武汉市第五医院至迟在2月5日得到内部通知，从当天起，“能出院的尽量出院，如有临床症状重的，可以继续留院观察或治疗”，根据当时的安排，一些有基础疾病的双阴（两次核酸检测均为阴性）患者，会转入专门收治双阴患者的定点医院（如武汉市商职医院等）继续治疗，大量无基础疾病的双阴患者，直接出院，回家隔离。
According to the then arrangements, some patients with basic diseases with double yin (negative for both nucleic acid tests) will continue to receive treatment at designated hospitals (such as Wuhan City Commercial Hospital, etc.) for patients with basic diseases.
武汉市红十字会医院一位医生表示，根据上级要求，患者只要症状减轻，核酸检测双阴，就可以转走。
According to a doctor at Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, patients can be transferred if their symptoms are alleviated and their nucleic acids are detected.
但转出之后，又出现了患者病情反复的情况。
But after the transfer, the patient's condition again and again.
截至2月10日，接纳有基础疾病的双阴患者的商职医院，有一部分患者因为病情加重，又返回红十字会医院救治。
As of 10 February, some of the patients admitted to commercial hospitals for patients with basic ailments had returned to the hospital of the Red Cross for treatment because their condition had worsened.
第二批出院患者，来自收治轻症确诊患者的方舱医院。
The second group of discharged patients came from the cabin hospital where patients with mild cases were admitted.
2月13日，江汉（卓尔武展）方舱医院分两批出院100多人，还有500多人具备病愈出院条件，正在办理出院流程，那几天每天都可以安排100人左右出院。
On February 13, more than 100 people were discharged from the Jianghan (Zhuoerwu Exhibition) Fang Cao Hospital in two batches. More than 500 people were discharged from the hospital in two batches.
现在方舱医院可以做核酸检测和肺部CT，一天检测的患者可以多达400个。
Now the square cabin hospital can do nucleic acid test and lung CT, the patient can test up to 400 a day.
这意味着出院人数将持续大幅增长。
This means that the number of discharges will continue to increase significantly.
从疫情通报来看，最近两天，武汉市每天治愈出院病例都接近千人。
According to the epidemic report, in the past two days, Wuhan city cured nearly one thousand cases every day.
但出院核酸检测阴性、复查阳性患者的存在，又给防疫工作增加了新的难度。
But discharge nucleic acid test negative, the existence that reviews positive patient, added to epidemic prevention work new difficulty.
在出院潮分批到来之际，迫切需要应对之策。
There is an urgent need to deal with the hospital discharge wave in batches.
此前已经治愈出院的2万多名患者（其中湖北患者1.5万余名，武汉患者8千余名），同样不能忽视。
More than 20,000 patients (15,000 in Hubei and 8,000 in Wuhan) who have previously been cured cannot be ignored.
吴靖|撰稿微信号：1136352312王晨|统筹撰稿微信号：2174127吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19刘冉|责编微信号：foooorest我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: 1136352312; Wang Chen & # 124; Co-ordinated Writing Micro Signal: 2174127 Wu selected & # 124; Writing microsignals: wytlucky 19 Liu Ran & # 124; We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉政策加码：出院后还要集中隔离2周，新冠肺炎怎样才算治愈？。
Wuhan policy add code: After discharge from hospital still must concentrate quarantine 2 weeks, how does new crown pneumonia calculate cure?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "武汉政策加码：出院后还要集中隔离2周，新冠肺炎怎样才算治愈？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "一些患者治愈出院后，核酸检测又呈阳性。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some patients tested positive for nucleic acid when they were cured and discharged.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
