在人间丨一个武汉隔离病房护士的自述。
an account of a nurse in the Wuhan isolation ward.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
我叫张丽（化名），是武汉某医院隔离病房的护士。
My name is Zhang Li (alias), is Wuhan a hospital isolation ward nurses.
我们医院从1月6号、7号开始接收新型冠状病毒肺炎病人。
From January 6, 7, our hospital began to receive the new coronavirus pneumonia patients.
2019年12月31日，我们第一次收到针对华南海鲜市场密切接触人群排查的文件类指令，问我们每一个人有没有去过海鲜市场。
On December 31, 2019, for the first time, we received a document-type directive on close contact with crowd search in the South China seafood market, asking each of us if he or she had been to a seafood market.
元旦刚过，大概1月3号左右，我们医院开始进行病房隔离改造，重新布置病床。
New Year's Day has just passed, about January 3, our hospital began to carry out ward isolation renovation, re-arrangement of beds.
一夜之间，我们把所有早先的住院病人尽可能转到其他科室，也有一些直接办理出院手续。
Overnight, we moved all our earlier inpatients as far as possible to other departments, and some of them went straight out of the hospital.
那是我们第一次接收这类病人，所有人都不知道怎么做，只能一点点摸索。
It was the first time we had received a patient like this, and everyone didn't know how to do it, just groping a little.
刚开始设施不全，人手不足，保护措施也不完善。
Initially, facilities were inadequate, staffing was inadequate and protection measures were inadequate.
每天怎么去上班，怎么防护，都不知道。
I don't know how to go to work and how to protect myself every day.
上级不让我们说正在收治这类病人，我们也感受不到支持，当时心里有点不舒服，为什么是我们科室要接收这类病人，而不是其他科室接收。
Our superiors did not allow us to say that we were treating such patients, and we did not feel support, and we felt a little uncomfortable at the time, why it was our department that received such patients, not other sections.
妈妈担心我被感染已哭了四次我们心理压力特别大，但收治病人又刻不容缓，我们每天从早上8点上班，一直加班到晚上十一二点，中午没有休息时间。
My mother worried that I had been infected and cried four times. We had a lot of psychological stress, but there was no time to lose. We went to work from 8 a.m. to work late every night until eleven or twelve at night.
我们好几个同事曾连续值班24个小时，那一次我感到非常崩溃。
Several of our colleagues had been on duty for 24 hours, and on that occasion I felt very broken.
我妈妈因为我在临床一线上班这件事，担心我被传染，已经哭了不下四回。
My mother had cried more than four times for fear that I might get infected because I was working on the clinical front line.
最开始上级口头传达说这个病情很轻，远没有非典那么可怕，大家只用做好基础一级防护就可以了，一级防护就是指简单的戴口罩、穿隔离衣。
At the beginning, the superior verbally said that the disease is very light, far less terrible than SARS, we only need to do a good basic level of protection, that is, wearing a simple mask, wearing protective clothing.
但是我们院领导认为这毕竟是新型传染病，也不知道到底是什么情况，所以要求我们做二级防护，二级防护比一级防护更完善。
But our hospital leaders think this is a new type of infectious disease, do not know exactly what the situation is, so we are required to do secondary protection, secondary protection is better than the first protection.
防护服、隔离衣、口罩、护目镜和面罩，全部要准备齐整。
Wear protective clothing, protective clothing, face masks, goggles and face masks, all in good condition.
因此我们从收治第一例患者时，就防护很到位。
So when we treated the first patient, the protection was there.
这也是很庆幸的一点，到目前为止，我们医院没有医护人员感染。
This is also very fortunate that so far, no hospital staff have been infected.
但是其他医院不一样，每隔几天，就听到同行告诉我，他们医院哪个科室的医生护士感染了，具体数字我不知道。
But other hospitals are different. Every few days, I hear my colleagues tell me which department of their hospital doctors and nurses are infected. I don't know.
当在网上看到一些医务人员情绪波动很大时，我非常理解，因为自己也经历过。
When I see a lot of emotion fluctuating among medical staff on the Internet, I quite understand it because I have experienced it myself.
我已经工作好几年了，这是第一次产生这么压抑的情绪。
It was the first time I had felt so depressive that I had been working for several years.
一段时间后，我才慢慢调整好心态。
It took me a while to adjust my mind.
一是因为医院的保障比较充足，我有安全感；另一方面，这几天疫情大爆发之后，其他医院的护士被调过来帮忙，人手比之前稍微缓和些。
On the one hand, I felt safe because the hospital was more secure. On the other hand, nurses from other hospitals were called in to help after the outbreak of the epidemic.
不过由于他们都没有隔离病房护理经验，我们需要先对他们进行培训，一段时间后才能让他们进隔离病房。
But since they don't have any isolation experience, we need to train them before they can be admitted to the isolation ward.
我们现在每天至少工作9个小时，三餐由医院食堂直接送到隔离病房。
We now work at least nine hours a day, with three meals delivered directly from the hospital cafeteria to the isolation ward.
大年三十那天，医院给晚上值班的同事送饺子和排骨冬瓜汤。
On New Year's Day, the hospital delivered dumplings and spareribs to his colleagues on duty at night.
我们医院的后勤相对还不错，但是很多其他医院，后勤根本无法满足每个一线医务人员。
The logistics of our hospital are relatively good, but in many others, logistics simply do not meet the needs of every front-line medical worker.
目前最大的困难还有出行问题，现在公交、地铁都停运了。
At present the biggest difficulty also has the traveling question, now the bus, the subway all stops.
有的同事可以开车上班，但大部分同事都没有车，家住得也远，幸亏有一些民间自发组织的志愿者和的士司机愿意接送一线医护人员。
Some co-workers can drive to work, but most of them have no cars and live far away. Thanks to the willingness of volunteers and taxi drivers from non-governmental organizations to transport front-line health workers.
医院也正在解决这个问题，准备联系附近的宾馆为大家安排住宿。
The hospital is also working on the issue and is ready to contact a nearby hotel to arrange accommodation for everyone.
病人太多我们无法做标准隔离我们医院现在一般只收治重症和高度疑似病人，但并不是只要是疑似病人就全部接收。
Too many patients We can't do standard seclusion Our hospitals now only treat severe and highly suspected patients, but not all of them as long as they are suspected.
病房内的高度疑似和确诊的病人通常都有乏力症状，难以自理，需要高容量吸氧，我们要照顾他们吃饭、喝水、大小便等日常生活。
Patients in the wards who are highly suspected and diagnosed usually have symptoms of fatigue, difficulty in taking care of themselves, need high capacity oxygen, and have to take care of their daily life such as eating, drinking water, defecating and so on.
如果情况特别危重，就要送到ICU。
If the situation is particularly critical, send it to the ICU.
我护理的病人中，目前最严重的，有呼吸困难、极度乏力、精神和食欲不佳症状，血氧饱和度很低，需要器官插管或者呼吸机来维持血氧饱和度。
The patients I care for are currently the most severe, with dyspnea, severe fatigue, mental and anorexia, low blood oxygen saturation, and the need for organ intubation or respirator to maintain blood oxygen saturation.
疫情爆发后，大家都很恐慌，包括我自己。
After the outbreak, everyone panicked, including myself.
每天都有身边的朋友跟我咨询，他们可能有点儿低烧或者咳嗽，就很紧张，问我怎么办，需要做什么，应该怎么处理。
Every day I have a friend to consult with, they may be a little low fever or cough, very nervous, ask me what to do, what to do, how to deal with it.
很多市民有普通的发烧咳嗽等症状，也会很担心自己是不是感染上了新型冠状病毒，就会去医院。
Many citizens have common symptoms such as fever and cough, and will worry about whether they are infected with the new coronavirus, they will go to the hospital.
当普通肺炎患者、感冒患者和新型冠状病毒肺炎患者全部聚集到医院时，医院是无法承受的。
When the common pneumonia patient, the cold patient and the new coronavirus pneumonia patient all gather in the hospital, the hospital is unable to afford.
一些武汉群众说有医院不接收病人，我相信医院一定不是拒收，而是没有办法接收。
Some Wuhan people said that hospitals do not accept patients, I believe the hospital must not refuse, but there is no way to receive.
我觉得大家不一定非要去同济、协和等三甲医院，其他市级定点医院也可以去，这样可以缓解个别医院的压力。
I don't think we have to go to Tongji, Concorde and other tertiary hospitals can also go, which can relieve the pressure on individual hospitals.
现在病人的数量还在增加，我们科室每天差不多新增4、5例病人，也遇到过一天新增9、10个病人的情况。
Now the number of patients is increasing. Our department has added four or five new patients a day, and we have had 9 or 10 new patients a day.
他们都属于确诊和高度疑似病人。
They are both confirmed and highly suspected patients.
我所在的病房目前有30多个病人，整个医院大概100多个。
There are now more than 30 patients in my ward and more than 100 people in the hospital.
由于病人很多，我们没有办法做成标准隔离病房，只能尽量把相同病症的病人放在一起，比如核酸检测都是阳性的放在同一个房间，高度疑似的安排在同一个房间。
Due to the large number of patients, we can not make a standard isolation ward, can only try to put the same patients together, such as nucleic acid testing is positive in the same room, highly suspect in the same room.
我记得一个比较早入住的女病人，她的症状比较轻，一开始她对住院很抗拒，因为她觉得自己挺好的，怎么会被感染。
I remember a woman who moved in early. Her symptoms were mild. At first she was resistant to hospitalization because she thought she was fine and how she got infected.
她当时住在三人间，如果隔壁床收治新病人，她就很不情愿，觉得就算住院，也要住单人间。
She lived in three rooms, and if a new patient was admitted to the next bed, she was reluctant to stay in a single room, if at all.
但是我们的床位非常紧张，无法保证她住单人间。
But our beds are so tight that we can't guarantee her a single room.
她甚至不信任我们，怀疑药到底有没有效，我们是不是在把她当作一个试验品。
She didn't even trust us, she wondered if the drugs were working, and whether we were treating her as a test case.
我们花了很多时间跟她沟通，她才慢慢愿意接受治疗，前段时间已经痊愈出院。
We spent a lot of time talking to her, she slowly willing to accept treatment, some time ago has recovered from hospital.
轻症患者自行治疗是有可能自愈的但也需要服药新型冠状病毒主要的疑似症状是发热、咳嗽、乏力，重症的会胸闷、呼吸困难。
Patients with mild cases are likely to self-heal but also need to take the new coronavirus main suspected symptoms are fever, cough, fatigue, severe chest tightness, breathing difficulties.
我没有很具体的诊断方法，只能根据我了解的告诉你。
I don't have a specific diagnosis. I can only tell you what I know.
一般要先问有没有与确诊病人密切接触史，到了现阶段我们不会再问有没有去过华南海鲜市场了。
Generally, we should ask whether there is close contact with the confirmed patient. At this stage, we will not ask whether we have been to the South China Seafood Market.
收住院后，要从咽喉部取标本做咽拭子、病毒学检验；再做血项检查，排除流感病毒和其他已知六种冠状病毒；接着拍CT看肺部病理特征是否符合新型冠状病毒影像特征；还要提取痰液标本。
After admission to the hospital, specimens should be taken from the throat for swabs and virology tests; a blood test should be conducted to exclude the influenza virus and the other six coronavirus that are known to be coronavirus; and a CT scan should be taken to see if the pathological features of the lung conform to the imaging features of the new coronavirus.
如果已知六种冠状病毒全部排除，我们会确诊这是个高度疑似病人，给他做核酸检测，是阳性，就确诊。
If all six coronavirus types are known to be ruled out, we will confirm that this is a highly suspected patient, a nucleic acid test, a positive, confirmed.
之前有核酸检测试剂盒可以用于检测病毒，但只能在同济医院做，确诊人数有限。
There were previously nucleic acid test kits that can be used to detect viruses, but only in Tongji hospitals, the number of confirmed cases is limited.
现在核酸检测试剂盒相对充足一些，我们医院也可以做，一月份已经确诊了大约100例病人。
Nucleic acid testing kits are relatively abundant now, and we can do so in hospitals, in January about 100 patients have been confirmed.
对于病症较轻的疑似病例，我们会建议他们先去门诊拍片，吃药，自行在家隔离，或在门诊输液或流管。
In suspected cases of mild illness, we recommend that they take an outpatient consultation, take medication, isolate themselves at home, or have an outpatient infusion or drainage system.
其实如果是普通的感冒发烧，或是轻症，先自行在家隔离观察两周，可能比去医院更安全。
In fact, if you have a common cold fever or mild illness, it may be safer to stay home and observe it for two weeks than to go to a hospital.
虽然住到医院得到治疗更有保障，但是在你进医院之前，要经历一个过程，而且医院本身是一个巨大的病毒库，潜在的感染风险更高。
While it is more secure to stay in a hospital for treatment, there is a process before you go to the hospital, and the hospital itself is a huge reservoir of viruses with a higher potential risk of infection.
现在也有很多平台开通线上免费问诊，你可以先和医生沟通，再确定要不要去医院进一步治疗。
There are also many platforms that offer free online consultation. You can talk to your doctor first and then decide if you want to go to the hospital for further treatment.
但如果是高烧不退，同时觉得乏力、呼吸困难，我建议要来医院。
But if the fever is not back, and feel tired, breathing difficulties, I suggest to come to the hospital.
轻症患者自行隔离治疗是有自愈的可能性的，主要看自身抵抗力的强弱。
Self-isolation treatment of light patients is self-healing possibilities, mainly depending on the strength of their own resistance.
因为通过分析之前的重症和死亡病例，我们发现很多人本身就存在基础疾病，才导致病毒发展迅猛，如果本身没有基础疾病，身体抵抗力比较强，是可以自愈的，但不是说隔离之后什么都不做，也需要服药。
Because by analysing previous cases of severe illness and death, we find that many people have their own underlying conditions that lead to rapid virus development. If there is no underlying disease, the body is more resistant and self-healing, but it is not to say that isolation is followed by doing nothing but taking medication.
由于新型冠状病毒存在潜伏期，病毒携带者在确诊之前是有传染性的。
Due to the latency of the new coronavirus, the virus carriers are infectious before being diagnosed.
而我们不知道你身边哪些人是病毒携带者，是不是正在潜伏期。
And we don't know which people around you are carriers of the virus, or whether they are incubating.
所以如果出门，一定要戴口罩。
So if you go out, be sure to wear a mask.
我觉得疑似患者首先要保证可以在家自行隔离，其次就是保证有充足的口罩佩戴，这样即使出门就医，传播风险也很小。
I think the suspect should be able to make sure that they can isolate themselves at home, and then make sure they have enough masks on, so that if they go out for medical treatment, the risk of transmission is minimal.
我们现在无法统计有多少人没有确诊。
We are unable to count how many people have not been diagnosed.
我觉得大家最好少出门，待在家里，保持门窗早晚通风，用酒精棉片擦手，或在家里消消毒，因为这个病毒害怕酒精。
I think we'd better stay home and keep doors and windows ventilated early and late, wipe your hands with alcohol cotton pieces, or sterilize your home because the virus is afraid of alcohol.
如果有条件，还可以买紫外线灯光在家里照射。
If conditions permit, you can also buy ultraviolet light at home irradiation.
消毒时，最好一个房间一个房间的进行，消毒时门窗一定要关好，一般消毒半到一个小时，消毒完再打开门窗通风半小时，人再进去。
When disinfecting, had better a room one room to proceed, disinfect the door and window must close, general disinfection half to one hour, open the door and window ventilation half an hour after disinfection, people re-enter.
我希望疫情早点结束，这么多人都在帮助武汉，我相信我们一定可以战胜病毒，渡过这个难关。
I hope the epidemic will end soon, so many people are helping Wuhan, I believe we can overcome the virus, through this difficult time.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and text to record all the photos you hear and see in no less than 3 words in no less than 300 words: micro-mail contact the ruler of the world.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨一个武汉隔离病房护士的自述。
an account of a nurse in the Wuhan isolation ward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨一个武汉隔离病房护士的自述";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; from a nurse at Wuhan Isolation Ward.
var msg_desc = "病人太多，我们无法做标准隔离。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Too many patients to make a standard isolation.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（一）',。
Ritle: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨父亲双肺感染严重，然而一床难求',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
