有谁想去武汉？我们7个摄影记者全部报了名|武汉一线摄影师专访。
Who wants to go to Wuhan? All seven of our photographers have been interviewed by a first-line Wuhan photographer.
轮到你了                      。
It's your turn.
轮到你了。
It's your turn.
这是来自世界各地100多所高校大学生的新媒体实验室。
It is a new media laboratory for college students from more than 100 universities around the world.
在这里，遇见最有个性的大学生摄影师。
Here, meet the most individualistic college photographer.
。
.
这里是大学生的新媒体实验室 ∆再坚持几天，快了……轮到你了按：这是摄影师蔡颖莉隔离在家的第8天。
Here is a new media lab for college students, but for a few more days, soon... it's your turn to press: this is photographer Cai Milli's eighth day in isolation.
8天前，她与所供职的财新网7位记者抵达武汉新型冠状病毒疫情现场采访。
Eight days ago, she and her 7 reporters at Caixin Network arrived in Wuhan to report the new coronavirus outbreak live.
在经历了14小时的一线拍摄后，被迫在武汉封城前撤离，现在宜春家中隔离。
After 14 hours of first-line filming, forced to leave the city in front of Wuhan, now Yichun home isolation.
轮到你了联系上了目前体温正常，身体状况良好的蔡颖莉，带我们重回那个没有硝烟的战场，经历一场恐惧的洗礼。
It's your turn to get in touch with Cai Yingli, now in good health with normal body temperature, and take us back to the smoke-free battlefield, experience a baptism of fear.
财新图片 蔡颖莉有谁想去武汉？轮：你是什么时候被通知要去武汉，前期作了哪些准备？蔡：1月20日下午，我们领导郭现中老师（财新视觉新闻中心总监）在部门工作群里问大家，“有谁想去武汉？”，我们七位摄影视频记者全部都报了名，实际上领导在委派上左右为难，新闻里不断攀升新冠病人数字，我们都知道其中的风险，我们没有经验，不知道如何既采访到核心现场，又能保护好自己。
Who wants to go to Wuhan? Wheel: When were you told to go to Wuhan, what preparations did you make? Cai: When were you told to go to Wuhan on January 20th? Cai: In the afternoon of January 20, we led our seven photographers to Wuhan.
最后决定，我和丁刚两位摄影记者，以及领队主编高昱老师还有其他五位记者陆续到武汉汇合。
It was decided that two photographers, Ding Gang and his editor-in-chief, Gao Yu, and five other journalists were converging in Wuhan.
部分防护用品我们的防护设备其实是非常短缺的，当时已经很难在实体店购买防护装备了。
Some of our protective gear was in short supply, and it was hard to buy it at the physical store.
我们一共八个记者，只有28套防护服，10个护目罩以及为数不多的消毒液和口罩。
We have eight journalists, only 28 suits, 10 eye shields and a small supply of disinfectant and masks.
出发前，我备了三套旧衣服两双鞋，想到万一防护服出问题我就穿一套扔一套，24寸的箱子已被防护用品塞满，还买了很多小瓶子装上消毒液，以备随时消毒，把能想到的防护措施都备好了。
Before I left, I had three pairs of old clothes and two pairs of shoes. I thought I would wear a suit of toss in case my suit went wrong. The 24-inch box was full of protective gear.
当时确实也是非常担忧安全问题，不过也做好打持久战的准备，想着除夕夜和同事们一起驻守在武汉。
I was really worried about security, but I was prepared to stay in Wuhan with my colleagues on New Year's Eve.
8位财新记者抵达汉口轮：从北京一路到武汉，周围的情绪和氛围如何？蔡：我是坐着22日早上六点北京开往汉口的高铁，就在我认为如临大敌的时候，车站还有部分没有戴口罩的人群。
How about the mood and atmosphere from Beijing all the way to Wuhan? Cai: I was sitting on the 22-morning high-speed train from Beijing to Hankou.
因为前两天睡眠不充足，我一上车便睡着了，几小时后我被咳嗽声惊醒，发现我的口罩有一边没有戴好，突然一下慌张起来，拿出随身带的免洗消毒液就开始往脸上抹。
As I did not get enough sleep the previous two days, I fell asleep as soon as I got on the bus. A few hours later I coughed and woke up to find that one side of my mask was missing.
这个举动还引来邻座一位未戴口罩人士的不解，迎面走来的列车员也没有戴口罩，还是看似祥和。
The move also drew the bafflement of a man not wearing a mask, and the oncoming conductor did not wear a mask, or seemed to be peaceful.
当时我就在脑补韩国电影《流感》的画面，咳嗽者的飞沫喷洒在人群密集的空气中，大家都难以抵挡这猝不及防的飞沫，一路忐忑。
I was patching up images of the South Korean movie "Influenza," coughing people's spray in the dense air, we can not withstand the unexpected spray, all the way perturbed.
不过时间越往后推，我看见大家越来越紧张，从20号到22号，各种肺炎新闻铺天盖地，我所见的北京到武汉，大家都开始警惕起来了，几乎没有不戴口罩的人了。
But as time went on, I saw mounting nervousness. From the 20th to the 22nd, with all kinds of news about pneumonia, from Beijing to Wuhan, everyone was starting to be on alert.
1月22日，北京前往汉口的高铁上，一位未戴口罩售卖饮料的列车员|财新记者 蔡颖莉移动的病毒源轮：到武汉首先去了哪些现场，情况怎么样？蔡：22日中午12点一刻到的汉口站，还是看见有一些人没有戴口罩。
On January 22, at a high-speed train from Beijing to Hankou, a man selling drinks without a mask was seen wearing a mask at Han Kou. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
按照之前的安排，我和文字记者萧辉老师一组，后来我们先去了武汉天河机场，大家基本带上了口罩，让我非常惊讶的是这个时候了，居然还有马上出发去日本的旅游团。
According to the previous arrangement, I and the text reporter Xiaohui group of teachers, later we went to Wuhan Tianhe Airport, we basically wear masks, I was very surprised that this time, there is a tour to Japan immediately.
还碰到一家人从武汉老家飞往深圳过年，妈妈手里抱着六个月大的孩子。
Also met a family from Wuhan home to Shenzhen for the New Year, mother holding a six-month-old child.
年轻的妈妈在不断地给孩子整理口罩，但孩子太小了，还是太大戴不住，这样的防护效用看着令人担忧。
Young mothers are constantly cleaning their children's masks, but the fact that they are too young to wear them seems worrying.
1月22日武汉天河机场为孩子整理口罩的妈妈| 财新图片 蔡颖莉蔡：之后我们去了发热患者定点的红十字协会医院，这里离华南海鲜市场仅两公里。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Cai Ying-lai: Then we went to the Red Cross Society hospital, where fever sufferers are located, just two kilometers from the South China seafood market.
我们起初到了住院部，几乎没有什么人，气氛一度诡异，询问患者和医生这里是否疑似病例或确诊病例，得来的回应语焉不详。
We first went to the inpatient department, where there were few people, in a quirky atmosphere, asking patients and doctors if there were any suspicious cases or confirmed cases.
之后我们看见“非请勿入”的呼吸科病区，一位全副武装的大夫和我说，“情况随时在变，现在确诊的都送到金银潭医院。
Then we saw the "uninvited" respiratory tract, where a heavily armed doctor and I said, "Things are changing now. What is now confirmed is sent to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
” 那个时候我们都没有穿防护服，仅戴了口罩和手套。
We didn't wear protective clothing at that time, only masks and gloves.
走到门诊大厅时，看到突如其来的发热病患蜂拥而至扎堆等待检查，我们立即走出门诊部，找了一位发热患者家属在医院附近的蛋糕店采访。
Arriving at the outpatient clinic, we saw the sudden arrival of feverish patients waiting to be examined. We walked out of the clinic and asked the family of a feverish patient to interview the bakery near the hospital.
当时我身边有位戴口罩的中年男子，他说自己也是等待检查的患者，家离华南海鲜市场非常近，一边说还一边咳嗽。
A middle-aged man in a mask near me said he, too, was waiting to be tested and was coughing near the South China seafood market.
那一瞬间我肾上腺素飙升，连忙起身把防护装备穿戴好。
At that moment my adrenaline soared, and I quickly got up and dressed my protective gear.
穿着防护服、戴着口罩、眼罩、手套的蔡颖莉蔡：这时候眼前的门诊医院就像是疫情的漩涡中心，我独自到了门诊部，这里患者越来越多，门诊大厅被挤得水泄不通，医护人员被吞噬在巨大的发热患者人群中，这里的医生戴了防目面罩，但还有几位医生只戴了两层薄薄的口罩而已。
Cai Ying-lai, wearing protective clothing, mask, eye mask, gloves: The outpatient hospital was like the whirlpool center of the epidemic. I went to the clinic alone. There were more and more patients, the out-patient hall was full of people, the doctors there were wearing masks, there were just a few doctors wearing two thin masks.
这时候有两位医生正在给刚来的医护人员穿戴防护服，重重包裹下只露出了这位医护人员的焦虑的眉眼。
By this time two doctors were wearing protective clothing for the newcomer, and the worried eyebrows of the paramedic were visible under the heavy bags.
期间有患者冲到我的前面说“这里没有办法确诊，太容易交叉感染”诸如此类的泣诉。
During the patient rushed to my front and said "there is no way to diagnose, too easy to cross-infection" and so on.
120救护车两位医护人员对我说，目前这里没有办法确诊，也不能把人接走，白跑了两趟空车。
120 Ambulance two paramedics told me that there is no way to diagnose, nor to take people away, two empty trips.
我被人群挤进了“红区”抢救室，这里的病人看似更严重，他们躺在病床上输液，鼻腔插上了管子。
I was crowded into the Red Zone recovery room, where the patients, who appeared to be more serious, lay infusion in their beds and had tubes inserted into their nostrils.
就在门口，一位老人躺在临时搭建的病床上，带着薄薄的一层口罩，我没有看到驻守在旁边的家属，他的眼里噙着泪水，就这么一直望着我，那个时候我差点没能忍住眼泪。
Just at the door, an old man was lying on a makeshift bed with a thin mask, and I didn't see any of my family members standing nearby, with tears in his eyes, staring at me all the time, and I could hardly contain my tears.
武汉协和红十字会医院一位等待检查确诊的老人|财新记者 蔡颖莉这次情况的后续就是记者萧辉老师写《发热患者定点医院里的故事》，“不能检测，就不能确诊，不能确诊就很难住院。
"Not being tested, not being diagnosed, not being diagnosed and not being hospitalized is a follow-up to what happened to Cai Ying-li, a reporter at Wuhan Concorde Red Cross Hospital who is waiting to be diagnosed.
不能住院，就没办法检测。
No hospitals. no way to test.
” 发热患者们这样扎堆排队等待检查，这样交叉感染的机率实在太大了，并且这家医院离华南海鲜市场仅两公里不到。
Fever sufferers are queuing up for tests, which puts the chances of cross-infection too high, and the hospital is less than two kilometers from the South China seafood market.
这仅仅是武汉其中一家定点医院，这样的移动病毒源是一个严重的隐患，如果不及时安置这些发热病患，只会成倍扩散，后果不堪设想。
This is just one of Wuhan designated hospitals, such a mobile virus source is a serious hidden danger, if not the timely placement of these febrile patients, will only multiply proliferation, the consequences of unthinkable.
武汉协和红十字会医院，排队等候检查的发热病患及家属们|财新记者 蔡颖莉轮：什么时候被通知要撤回？蔡：在武汉的时间非常短，拍完发热门诊后回去消毒，领导当时和我们商量要不要回去，开始不想撤离，他也在陆续安排和指导我们工作，但没有想到的是十几分钟后，我们看到了武汉23日上午10点封城的消息。
When was Cai Ying-lai notified to withdraw? Cai: The time in Wuhan was very short; he went back to disinfect after the fever clinic, and the leader talked with us about going back and not wanting to leave.
勇气最终还是向实际情况妥协，在防护物资这么匮乏的情况下，别无选择，所以特别无奈和遗憾。
Courage eventually yielded to reality, leaving little choice in the face of such a shortage of protective equipment, so it was particularly necessary and regrettable.
当晚三点左右，我们主编高昱老师开车将我们送到了汉口站，八位记者有五位离开。
About three o'clock that evening, our editor-in-chief, Gao Yu, drove us to Hankou Station. Five of the eight journalists left.
当时我很犹豫，不知道是回北京还是选择回老家，出于隔离条件考虑，我还是选择回老家，当时特别担心自己要是感染了会传给父母，他们年过五十，特别担忧，我也不知道我的选择是否是对的，最后半夜四点给我父母打的电话，让他们等天一亮就去市委社区报备。
At that time, I was very hesitant, I did not know whether to go back to Beijing or back home, due to isolation, I still chose to go back home, especially worried that if infected they would pass to their parents, they were over 50.
1月23日，父母穿着雨衣当防护服来车站接我本户有新型冠状病毒肺炎患者密切接触者！！！轮：现在的隔离是如何进行的？状况如何？蔡：当天下午我到了老家，父母穿着雨衣戴着口罩手套来接我，给我和我的行李消毒，小城里买不到防护服他们就以雨衣代替，报备后社区的工作人员也跟一路跟随。
On January 23, my parents came to the station wearing raincoats as protective clothing to meet my family with the new coronavirus pneumonia patients!!! Wheel: How is the current isolation going on? Cai: When I got home that afternoon, my parents came to pick me up in raincoats and masks.
我就隔离在自家带有卫生间的主卧里，父母会戴着口罩和手套，把一日三餐放在我隔离的房门口。
I was isolated in my bedroom with a bathroom, where my parents would wear masks and gloves and put three meals a day in front of my isolated room.
隔离第一天，父母将一碗鸡汤放在我的隔离房间的门口，这把小凳子就是隔离期间父母和我的传递工具蔡：市医院的医护人员也联系了我，让我每天上午将测量的体温汇报给她，中间还有一次亲自上门体测。
On the first day of isolation, my parents left a bowl of chicken soup in front of my isolation room. This stool was my parents' and my delivery tool during the quarantine. Cai: The city hospital staff contacted me and asked me to report my temperature to her every morning.
隔离的日子里我的体温都保持在36度左右，精神状态也很好。
I kept my temperature around 36 degrees on quarantine days, and I was in good shape.
但每天看着新闻，实在是坐立难安。
But every day watching the news, it is difficult to sit down.
就在27号晚上，我家门口还贴着“本户有新型冠状病毒的肺炎患者密切接触者！！！”的纸条，电梯和本单元门口也各贴了一张，就连对面十分熟络的邻居也把常年放在门外的鞋柜搬进了室内。
On the night of the 27th, my door was pasted with the note of "close contacts of pneumonia patients with the new coronavirus!!!". The elevator and the door of the unit each posted a note.
有人也拍了照发在在我家小区的业主群里，搞得整个群里的业主都弄得气氛尴尬又慌张，也不仅仅是我家这一户，还有很多武汉返乡的本地人都碰到了这个情况，第二天他们商讨之后，上午还是把纸条给撕了，这件事弄得我父母心里有些不舒服，但还是没有办法，单位后来都安排他们延后上班了。
The owners of the whole group were embarrassed and flustered. This happened not only to my family, but also to many local Wuhan returnees. The next day, after discussion, they tore up the paper in the morning, but there was nothing I could do about it.
我也并非孤立，当天我在微信上看到其他小区也贴出类似纸条，其中有一则通告，上面大致写着，“某小区有武汉返乡人员，要求自我检测，请各位居民监督，如有发现该户出入，及时报告”。
I was not alone when I saw similar messages posted in other neighborhoods on the same day. There was a notice that said, "There are Wuhan returning people in a small area.
也就是当天，本市的一个乡镇传言确诊了一位病例，并将与该病例接触过的人都做了详细登记，制成excel表格在各个微信群里转发。
That same day, a township in the city rumored to have confirmed a case and made a detailed register of people who had come into contact with the case, which was then forwarded in an excel form to the various micro-groups.
在网上看到太多这样的案例，极端的比比皆是，没想到自己也成了其中的一员，这种感觉特别复杂。
There are too many such cases on the Internet, extreme everywhere, I did not expect to become one of them, this feeling is particularly complex.
民众的情绪到了一个亢奋的高潮，自己还算幸运的一员，想着那些可能的疑似患者，本身就被潜在病毒和心理压力所支配，如此一来遭受的歧视、驱逐以及隐私泄漏，那种悲观我特别能感同身受。
I particularly sympathize with the pessimism of discrimination, expulsion, and privacy leaks when the public's emotions reach a high-spirited climax, and they are lucky enough to think about potential sufferers who are themselves subject to potential viruses and psychological stress.
1月27日晚，我家门口贴上的纸条一次恐惧的洗礼轮：你之前有没有参加过类似的报道？对2003年的非典还有印象吗？蔡：我参加波及范围及严重程度如此之大的公共事件还是第一次。
On the night of Jan. 27, a note posted on my door was a baptism of fear: Have you ever participated in a similar story before? Tsai: For the first time, I attended a public event of such magnitude and severity.
2003年的非典那时候我还在读小学，只记得那年春天每天都要测量体温后才能上课，仅存这种量体温记忆还是没能让我有这种历史参与感。
When I was in primary school in 2003, I remembered taking my body temperature every day that spring, and the mere memory of my body temperature didn't give me that sense of historic involvement.
这次仅仅14个小时的一线经历，让我彻底经历了一次恐惧的洗礼，以及明确了传达给公众现场实况是多么重要，虽然非常短暂，但我这次拍下发热定点医院面对的这种特别棘手有待解决的问题，也不枉费自己这次前往一线的机会。
This first experience of only 14 hours, let me thoroughly experience the baptism of fear, and clear how important it is to communicate to the public on the spot, although very short, but this time I took a picture of the feverish problems facing the hospital, and did not waste my trip.
财新记者 蔡颖莉轮：这次参加一线的报道，最大的感触是什么？蔡：从20号拐点的开始，因恐惧让我变得特别敏感害怕，每一根神经都紧绷着，我没有参与过如此重大的公共报道，也没有经验，特别害怕什么也没拍到就被感染了。
Cai: From the beginning of the 20 inflection point, I became very sensitive and frightened, every nerve was tensed, I was not involved in such a major public report, I had no experience, I was especially afraid of getting infected without being photographed.
我们前行的几位年轻记者没有经过这方面的培训，当时最早去一线的记者因为没穿防护服就去了发热门诊，因此受到严重的批评。
Several of our former young journalists were not trained in this area and were severely criticized for not wearing protective clothing when they went to the fever clinic.
来到现场之后我才发现最可怕的是周遭的一片祥和，你不知道背后究竟暗涌着多少可怕的病毒，何时会趁机进入你的体内。
When I arrived at the scene, I found that the most terrible is the surrounding peace, you do not know how many hidden behind the terrible virus, when will take the opportunity to enter your body.
如果不是出于当时的恐惧，可能我也不会当时不顾他人眼光而穿上那套防护装备，在当时那么危险的环境下，我可能因为自己的恐惧而自救了。
Had it not been for my fears at the time, I might not have worn the protective gear without looking the other way. In the dangerous circumstances of the time, I might have saved myself from fear.
在之后因为媒体的参与报道，大众掌握真相、信息更多了，尽管迅速蔓延的疫情让人恐惧，但最终还是迅速唤起了广大民众的警惕性，在这期间我能明显能感受到因为实时报道而改变其中的变化。
Then, thanks to the media coverage, the public gained more truth and information, and although the rapid spread of the epidemic was frightening, it eventually aroused the vigilance of the general public, during which time I could clearly feel the changes that had changed as a result of real-time reporting.
真相不是造成恐慌和悲剧的源头，无知和封闭才是。
Truth is not the source of fear and tragedy, but ignorance and closure.
财新记者 蔡颖莉采编| 青木 蔡颖莉  2015 四川美术学院新媒体图片摄影硕士  现就职于财新传媒（北京） 从事摄影记者工作。
Cai Ying-lai, a new reporter with wealth and wealth, has worked as a photographer for Caixin Media (Beijing) at the Cai Ying-li 2015 Sichuan Academy of Fine Arts New Media Photography.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
有谁想去武汉？我们7个摄影记者全部报了名|武汉一线摄影师专访。
Who wants to go to Wuhan? All seven of our photographers have been interviewed by a first-line Wuhan photographer.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "轮到你了";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "有谁想去武汉？我们7个摄影记者全部报了名|武汉一线摄影师专访";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Who wants to go to Wuhan? Our seven photographers have all been named and interviewed by a first-line Wuhan photographer.
var msg_desc = "一次恐惧的洗礼。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a baptism of fear.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="轮到你了";。
A: R: It was your turn to service.
