日本如何应对新冠疫情 | 一条时间线。
How Japan responded to AT & # 124; s new crown?
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
Keypoint：《感染症法》/《检疫法》1 月 28 日，日本内阁决定，将新型冠状病毒传染病指定为基于《感染症法》的“指定感染症”和基于《检疫法》的“检疫感染症”。
Keypoint: The Infection Act / Quarantine Law On January 28, the Japanese Cabinet decided to designate the new coronavirus infection as a "designated infection" based on the Infection Act and a "quarantinable infection" based on the Quarantine Law.
考虑到措施调整可能给各界带来的影响，提供了十天的通知期限，计划于 2 月 7 日正式实施；后因 WHO 宣布突发公共卫生事件 （PHEIC） ，日期提前至 2 月 1 日。
A 10-day notice period was provided, taking into account the possible impact of the measures on various sectors, and was scheduled to be officially implemented on 7 February; the date was brought forward to 1 February following the announcement of a public health emergency by the World Health Organization (WHO).
这两部法律为诸多疫情应对措施提供了法律依据和执行参照，对信息收集和公布、健康诊断和就业限制、消毒措施等种种均作出明确规范。
These two laws provide the legal basis and enforcement reference for many epidemic response measures, and clearly regulate the collection and publication of information, health diagnosis and employment restrictions, sterilization measures, etc.
按照《感染症法》，传染病被分为三类，埃博拉病毒、出血热、鼠疫等为 1 类，而新冠肺炎被归为与“非典”相同的 2 类——政府被允许对患者或疑似展开行动调查、安排住院以及对其持有物进行消毒。
In accordance with the Infection Act, infectious diseases are classified into three categories - Ebola, haemorrhagic fever, plague, etc. - while pneumonia is classified as having the same category 2 as SARS - the government being allowed to investigate patients or suspicions, arrange hospitalization, and disinfect their holdings.
值得注意的是，随着“钻石公主号”发生聚集性感染，愈多来自自民党以及社会的声音要求采取更强力措施；右翼作家百田尚树甚至发文，呼吁日本政府停止中国与韩国人入境。
It is worth noting that, as the Princess Diamond became infected, more voices from the LDP and society called for stronger measures; right-wing author Shinzo Akita even sent a message calling on the Japanese government to stop the entry of Chinese and Koreans.
2 月 14 日，安倍政府修改政令，决定在入境时采取可强制患者住院的“隔离”措施，以及让疑似感染者在指定设施观察的“留观”措施。
On February 14, Abe's government revised the decree to include "isolation" measures that would force patients to be hospitalized, as well as "watch" measures to allow suspected infected people to observe at designated facilities.
这种对于出行的限制，实质已经超出对 2 类传染病的应对举措。
This restriction on travel is in essence beyond the response to category 2 infectious diseases.
此前，虽然“公主号”乘客被要求呆在船内单间进行观察隔离，但缺乏明确的法律依据。
Previously, although the Princess passengers were required to stay in the ship's single room for observation and isolation, there was no clear legal basis.
“强制隔离”的措施曾在日本麻风病流行期间酿下严重后果，造成大量患者在康复后仍深受偏见和歧视。
The practice of "forced isolation" had serious consequences during the Japanese leprosy epidemic, resulting in a large number of patients recovering from prejudice and discrimination.
因此，此次修改也仍伴随着是否会侵犯人权的争议。
Thus, the amendment was accompanied by a dispute as to whether or not it would violate human rights.
水际对策转向防止蔓延扩散2 月 13 日，厚劳省大臣加藤胜信在新闻发布会上称，日本目前的新冠疫情“不处于流行蔓延阶段，但不能否认传染进一步扩大”。
Japan's new crown is "not in the epidemic phase, but it cannot be denied that the epidemic is spreading," Minister Kato Kato told a news conference on Feb. 13.
两天后，他则表示情况“已经发生变化”，新冠肺炎已在事实上开始在日本流行。
Two days later, he said the situation had "changed" and that pneumonia had in fact begun to become popular in Japan.
这昭示着这段时间，日本疫情已经发生重大转变。
This represents a significant shift in the epidemic in Japan during this period.
截至 2 月 12 日，日本国内确诊的 17 人均可推断感染途径。
As of February 12, 17 people diagnosed in Japan were able to infer the route of infection.
但截止 16 日四天内新增的 29 名感染者中，有 12 人属于可能无法确认感染途径的“社区感染”。
But 12 of the 29 new infections in the four days to the end of the 16-day period were "community infections" that could not be confirmed.
他们不仅没有旅行史，也没有明显的接触史，且散布在六个不同的地区——意味着感染在国内可能已经开始扩散。
Not only do they have no travel history, they have no visible history of contact, and they are spread across six different regions - implying that the infection may have begun to spread at home.
前期日本政府采取的“水际对策”，将防疫重点放在边境防控上：从上调中国的传染病危险提醒级别，到要求抵达乘客进行健康申报，加强检疫，暂停部分签证签发。
Earlier, the Japanese government adopted an "inter-water policy," focusing on border control and prevention, ranging from raising China's alert level for infectious diseases to requiring arriving passengers to file health declarations, strengthening quarantine and suspending some visa issuance.
但随着国内出现疫情蔓延的趋势，日本感染症学会和日本环境感染学会于 2 月 21 日宣布，疫情应对进入防止蔓延扩散，也就是内部防控的阶段。
But with the spread of the epidemic in Japan, the Society for Infection in Japan and the Japan Society for Environmental Infection announced on February 21 that the response to the epidemic had moved into the phase of preventing the spread of the epidemic, or internal control.
此举被一些学者批评为政府行动滞后。
This has been criticized by some scholars as lagging government action.
“我的担心是，政府会认为关闭了边境，国家就安全了。
"My fear is that the government will think that by closing the border, the country will be safe.
”和田耕治 2 月 4 日就曾对《日本时报》表示，“但现在政府应该做的，是根据国内会出现更多感染、疫情会持续恶化的假设，提前采取措施。
"But what the government should do now is move ahead on the assumption that there will be more infections in the country and the epidemic will continue to worsen," Wada told the Japan Times on Feb. 4.
”实际上，日本国内并不是没有准备。
Indeed, Japan is not unprepared at home.
2 月 1 日，厚劳省已经向各都道府县卫生主管部发出事务联络文件，要求尽快设立专门的“归国者及接触者门诊”以及咨询中心，并于早先设立了由医师接听的咨询热线。
On 1 February, the Ministry of Health of the Prefectural Health Department issued a liaison document on matters requiring the establishment of specialized "Returnees and Contacts Clinic" and counselling centres as soon as possible, as well as an earlier counselling hotline for physicians.
但面对可能的大规模爆发，医疗资源短缺的压力仍成为一个担忧，口罩短缺的现象已经在医院中出现。
But the strain of scarce medical resources remains a concern in the face of a possible large-scale outbreak, and a shortage of face masks has emerged in hospitals.
2 月 11 日起，“传染病床位”以外的普通病床被允许，改造成单人病房或负压病房后接诊新冠肺炎患者。
Since February 11, ordinary beds other than "infectious disease beds" have been allowed to be converted into single-person wards or negative-pressure wards for patients with Newcomial Pneumonia.
日本全国只有约 1800 张“负压”的传染病床，以接诊 1 类和 2 类传染病患，宣布启用新型流感流行时期同等标准的1600张病床，21 日这个数字增加至约 3400 张。
Japan has only about 1,800 "negative-pressure" beds for Class 1 and 2 infectious diseases, and has announced the opening of 1,600 beds of the same standard for the new influenza pandemic, an increase to about 3,400 beds on the 21st.
题图来源于 NHK 新闻视频截图：专家会议认为日本接下来的防疫关键是 1~2 周内能否抑制感染扩大的速度。
Experts say the next key to preventing infection in Japan is whether it can slow the spread of infection in a week or two.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日本如何应对新冠疫情 | 一条时间线。
How Japan responded to AT & # 124; s new crown?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "日本如何应对新冠疫情 | 一条时间线";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How Japan responded to AT & # 124; & quot; A time line;;
var msg_desc = "法令先行还是教条主义？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; legislation first or dogmatism? & quot;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
