如果你是湖北孝感的一位发热孕妇。
If you are a feverish pregnant woman in Hubei province.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
新型冠状肺炎肆虐的当下，发热孕妇在孝感的处境很尴尬：妇产科不接收发热孕妇，发热门诊不接受孕妇，医院之间相互推脱，他们得不到治疗的机会。
At a time when new forms of coronary pneumonia are rampant, febrile pregnant women are in an awkward position: pregnant women are not admitted to hot clinics, pregnant women are not admitted to hot clinics, hospitals push each other out and they are denied access to treatment.
文| 吴美芬1月22日，在武汉工作的邹杰（化名）和怀孕四个月的妻子，回到家乡孝感过春节。
Wu Mei-fen, a Wuhan-based Zou Jie (not his real name) and his wife, who was four months pregnant, returned home on January 22 to celebrate the Lunar New Year.
2月14日，妻子突然发烧，接下来五天，他们在孝感各个医院的妇产科和发热门诊来回转了两三轮。
On February 14, the wife suddenly had a fever, and for the next five days they returned two or three rounds at the maternity and fever clinics of the various hospitals.
2月17日，我联系上邹杰时，他们正在孝感中心医院做检查，医生建议他们做CT扫描以便确诊是否受到新型冠状病毒感染，但CT扫描可能会造成胎儿畸形，邹杰夫妇陷入两难境地。
On February 17, when I contacted Zou Jie, they were being examined at the Central Hospital of Filial Piety. The doctors advised them to have a CT scan to find out if they were infected with the new coronavirus.
我问邹杰，为什么不选择做核酸检测。
I asked Zou Jie why he did not choose to do nucleic acid test.
他说当时核酸试剂紧缺，而且当地医院的确诊流程必须是先有CT结果才能做核酸检测。
He said there was a shortage of nucleic acid reagents and that local hospitals had to have CT results before they could be tested for nucleic acids.
很无奈，2月19日，邹杰夫妇只好选择回家隔离观察。
Very helpless, February 19, Zou Jie couple had to choose to go home to observe isolation.
也是这天，他接受了我的采访。
It was also on this day that he gave me an interview.
以下是邹杰的自述：情人节当晚我怀孕的太太被送往隔离点2月14日，情人节那天晚上，我老婆突然高烧39度。
Here's what Zou Jie wrote: My wife, who was pregnant on Valentine's Day, was taken to a seclusion on February 14, when my wife had a 39-degree fever.
因为她现在怀孕18周，突然发烧让我有点着急，就赶紧送她去孝感市三江航天医院。
Because she is pregnant now 18 weeks, sudden fever makes me a little anxious, rushed to send her to Xiaogan City Sanjiang Space Hospital.
我们去的是发热门诊，到了之后，工作人员首先是询问我们的一些基本情况。
We went to the fever clinic, and when we arrived, the staff first asked us about the basics.
他们一听说我们是孕妇发热，直接说：“我们这里不接受孕妇”。
When they heard that we were pregnant, they said, "We don't accept pregnant women."
接着我们又去了孝感市第一医院，还是不收。
Then we went to the first hospital in Xiaogan City, or not.
我问他们，哪里接受呢？他们回答说孝感市中心医院，那里是新冠肺炎定点医院。
I asked them where to accept it? They replied that Xiaogan City Central Hospital, which is the Xinguan Pneumonia designated hospital.
然后我们就开车去中心医院，可中心医院说他们不接收孕妇，让我们去妇幼医院。
Then we drove to the central hospital, but the central hospital said they would not accept pregnant women, so let's go to the mother and child hospital.
医院之间推来推去的，我有点烦。
I'm a little tired of pushing and shoving between hospitals.
没办法，还是开车去妇幼医院试试，到那已经是晚上八点多，我老婆依然高烧不退，饭也没吃。
Can't help but drive to the mother and child hospital to try, by that time it was more than 8 pm, my wife still has a high fever, food did not eat.
妻子坐在孝感市中心医院等沟通的结果妇幼医院的医生一听说我老婆在发烧，直接说：“这里不接收发热人群”。
Mother and Child Hospital doctors heard that my wife was feverish and said, "We don't accept hot people here."
我实在没地方去了，就请求她帮我们看一下。
I really have no place to go, so ask her to take a look at it for us.
医生给我老婆测了体温。
The doctor took my wife's temperature.
测完体温，也没做其他的检查，说是没办法做，连血检都做不了，因为他们无法治疗发热人群。
After taking the temperature, they didn't do any other tests, they said they couldn't do it, they couldn't even do a blood test because they couldn't treat the febrile people.
我说不给做检查，给点药吃可以吗？医生说他帮我们联系一下，就打电话去了。
I said not to have a test, can you order some medicine? The doctor said he would contact us, so he called.
那天晚上下着雨，气温比较低，老婆发着高烧，我很焦急。
It rained that night. The temperature was low. My wife had a high fever. I was worried.
医生打完电话后跟我们说，希望我们去隔离，隔离点那边可能会有医护人员。
After the doctor calls us, I hope we're quarantined. There may be paramedics over there.
我听后觉得不放心，便继续恳求，能不能先做个检查，让我知道是什么情况，心里有个定心丸。
After listening to feel uneasy, then continued to plead, can you do a check-up, let me know what the situation is, the heart has a reassurance.
医生坚持说做不了，必须去隔离点。
The doctor insisted that he couldn't. He had to go to the quarantine.
没办法，国家政策规定，我们作为公民不执行也没办法。
There is no alternative. State policy dictates that we, as citizens, have no choice but not to implement it.
既然这样，我就想着我们先回家吃饭再过去。
In that case, I think we'll go home and have dinner first.
可那个医生说，不行，隔离点有饭吃，现在就要直接过去。
But the doctor said, 'No, there's food in the quarantine, and we're going straight to it now.
到了隔离点，我不能进去，我老婆一个人进去了。
When I got to the isolation point, I couldn't get in. My wife went in alone.
她住进去后，发现这是一个征用当地企业宿舍的临时隔离点，里面没有医护人员，没有吃的，也没有人管，只是每个房间放了些基本的生活用品。
When she moved in, she found that it was a makeshift seclusion of a local business dormitory where there were no medical staff, no food, and no one to take care of it, except for the basic necessities of life in each room.
老婆给我反应这个情况后，我很崩溃。
When my wife reacted to this, I collapsed.
妇幼医院的医生明知道我老婆发烧，也没想过有什么办法可以让她退烧。
The mother and child hospital doctor knew my wife had a fever and didn't think of any way to relieve it.
他作为医生最起码知道发烧对孕妇有多大的影响，对胎儿有多大的影响。
As a doctor, he knows at least how much a fever can affect a pregnant woman and how much it affects a fetus.
不但没有药，连最起码的物理降温都没做，直接就把我们丢到隔离点了，我觉得这个事情对任何正常人来说都受不了。
Not only is there no medicine, not even a minimum of physical cooling, but we are thrown into isolation, and I don't think this is going to be tolerated by any normal person.
很庆幸，我老婆在隔离点待了一晚上，虽然天气很冷，但第二天早上体温回复正常了。
Luckily, my wife spent the night at the quarantine station. Although it was very cold, my temperature returned to normal the next morning.
“烫手山芋”早上，妇幼医院的医生联系了我，让我到妇幼医院开证明，拿着证明去隔离点接人，再来妇幼医院看病。
"Hot potato" morning, the mother and child hospital doctors contacted me, let me to the mother and child hospital certificate, with proof to pick up people, and then came to the mother and child hospital.
可我到医院时，另一个负责的主任却说医院开不了证明，让我去隔离点问清楚手续，然后医院再跟隔离点沟通。
But when I got to the hospital, another director said that the hospital could not issue a certificate, let me go to the quarantine point to ask for procedures, and then the hospital with the isolation point.
我当时有点蒙，这个事情不应该是医院与隔离点之间沟通吗？为什么需要我去呢？2月15日，邹杰拍的孝感市妇幼医院那时孝感的城市道路已经封闭了，路上有交警把守，我没法开车出去。
Why should I go? On Feb. 15, Zou Jie filmed the Xiaogan City Maternal and Child Hospital where filial piety was closed and I couldn't drive out because traffic police were on the road.
医生建议我去社区开证明，有了证明就可以通过交警的关卡，那时我很着急，就按照他们说的方法去社区开了证明，自己开车去了隔离点。
The doctor advised me to go to the community to prove that I could pass the traffic police checkpoint with a certificate, and I was in a hurry and went to the community to prove it, driving myself to the quarantine point.
隔离点的工作人员告诉我说需要当地卫生院的领导同意，才能把我的老婆接出来。
The staff at the quarantined site told me I needed the consent of the head of the local hospital to pick up my wife.
我就又联系了妇幼医院的那个医生。
I contacted the doctor at the mother and child hospital.
这个医生为这个事情忙活了一上午，不断地帮我们沟通，看得出来她也很想帮我们，但也只是停留在沟通上，没什么有效的解决办法。
The doctor has been working on this all morning, helping us to communicate, and it's clear that she wants to help us too, but it's just communication and there's no effective solution.
1个多小时后，来了一个120救护车。
More than an hour later, a 120-ambulance arrived.
我以为救护车是送我们到妇幼医院，最后发现他把我们送到了孝感市第一医院。
I thought the ambulance was taking us to the mother and child hospital, only to find out that he had taken us to Xiaogan City Hospital No. 1.
孝感第一医院的医生接收后懵逼了，他们说怎么这个孕妇又来了，当时不是拒绝过了吗，怎么又来了呢。
Filial piety of the first hospital doctors after acceptance of Meng, they said how this pregnant woman came back, then refused, how come again.
医院之间接收病人都是很混乱的，皮球相互踢来踢去的。
Hospitals are all messy accepting patients, and balls kick each other around.
我老婆遇到这样的情况，都崩溃了。
My wife's been through this, she's broken down.
没办法，我求他们至少帮我们检查一下。
No way. I begged them to at least check it out for us.
医务组帮我们做了个血检。
The medical team did a blood test for us.
2月15日中午，我们做了第一次血检，血检结果显示白细胞很高，情况比较糟糕，医生初步判断可能是细菌感染。
At noon on February 15, we had our first blood test, which showed that the white blood cells were very high and the condition was worse.
建议我们做CT扫描，以便进一步的检查确认。
We are advised to do a CT scan for further examination and confirmation.
我们都知道孕妇做CT扫描风险太高，可能会导致胎儿畸形。
We all know that CT scans are too risky for pregnant women and can lead to fetal malformations.
我和老婆都不同意做CT。
Neither my wife nor I would agree to a CT scan.
我们是情愿自己感染了新冠肺炎，也不情愿承担将来孩子出生可能是畸形的风险。
We would rather be infected with pneumonia than risk the birth of a child in the future.
可医生说不做CT确诊不了，只好建议我们转院，去航天医院或者妇幼医院看看有没有办法。
But the doctor said no CT diagnosis, had to recommend that we transfer to the space hospital or maternal and child-care hospital to see if there is no way.
她的这个建议其实是没有意义的，因为我们已经跑过那些医院了。
This suggestion of hers is really pointless, for we have already run through the hospitals.
我希望她可以帮我们跟那些医院沟通联系好，我们再过去。
I hope she can connect us to those hospitals Okay, let's go over there.
要不然他们不收，皮球又踢来踢去。
If they don't, the ball kicks back and forth.
医生说跟领导反馈一下，就没有下文了。
The doctor told the leader that there would be no follow-up.
一天折腾下来，我们都没吃饭。
A day toss down, we did not eat.
最后我们跟医生说，能不能给我们一些退烧药，我们回家吃饭先观察一下。
Finally we told the doctor if we could get some antipyretics, and we could go home and have a look.
回家之后，我们用冰块和冷毛巾做了物理降温。
When we got home, we used ice cubes and cold towels to cool down physically.
之后几天，我老婆白天不会发烧，但到了下午体温就会升高，到了晚上会到37.5度以上。
For the next few days, my wife won't have a fever during the day, but by the afternoon it will rise to over 37.5 in the evening.
2月18日，我老婆已经连续发烧五天了，我觉得不能再拖下去，就打电话给96120，他们帮我联系当地的卫生院。
On Feb. 18, my wife had a fever for five days in a row, and I decided I couldn't put it off any longer so I called 96120 and they called the local clinic.
但卫生院说没有条件给孕妇做相关检查，让我们去中心医院或者妇幼医院。
But the clinic says there are no conditions for pregnant women to be examined. Let's go to the central hospital or maternity and children's hospital.
我感觉整个流程特别繁琐，就问120原因。
I find the whole process particularly tedious, and ask 120 why.
120说他们按照片区管理的，这个社区对应的医院是卫生院，所以120只能把我们送到卫生院，而卫生院没有条件收发热的孕妇，这样的话，120就无法送我们了。
120 They said that they were being run on a district basis and that the corresponding hospital in the community was a health centre, so we had to be taken to the health centre, which was not equipped to receive pregnant women with fever, so that we would not be able to deliver.
当时，我感到很愤怒，难道已经受感染的几万人里就没有孕妇吗？难道说孕妇发烧就该死吗？在这样情况下，没办法，我们只能是靠自己交际圈的能力去联系医院。
At that time, I was very angry, has not been infected tens of thousands of pregnant women? It is difficult to say that pregnant women have a fever should die? In this case, there is no way, we can only rely on their social circle to contact the hospital.
那天我们又跑了航天医院，还是同样推脱，说没有条件收，特殊时期必须要按照程序来。
That day we ran the space hospital, or the same refused to accept the conditions, special period must follow the procedure.
妇产科不收是因为发热了，发热门诊不收是因为孕妇。
Obstetrics and gynecology does not take because of fever, fever clinic does not charge because of pregnant women.
最后120帮我们联系航天医院，航天医院给我们帮忙联系到了中心医院。
Finally 120 to help us contact the space hospital, the space hospital to help us to contact the central hospital.
到了中心医院后，医生花5分钟为我们做了情况登记，并了解个人病史。
After arriving at the central hospital, the doctor took five minutes to register our condition and learn about our personal history.
大概1个小时之后，他们给我们的建议就是一定要做CT扫描。
After about an hour, the advice they gave us was to make sure we had a CT scan.
真的很头疼，我们不可能接受CT扫描。
It's a real headache. We can't get a CT scan.
现在就希望可以退烧，吃点消炎药。
Hope to reduce fever now, eat some anti-inflammatory drugs.
我们也知道吃消炎药、打点滴对胎儿有影响，但CT辐射影响太大了。
We also know that anti-inflammatory drugs, dosing on the fetal impact, but CT radiation too much.
平时没有新冠病毒，并不是所有的孕妇发热都要做CT的。
Usually no new crown virus, not all pregnant women fever to do CT.
医生什么检查都没给我们做，就往这上面扯。
The doctor didn't do anything for us. Just pull it up here.
医生听了我的理论，无话可说，就说给我们做一个初步的血液检查。
After listening to my theory and having nothing to say, the doctor told us to have a preliminary blood test.
我问过医生能不能直接做核酸检测，医院都说不可以，要先做CT才能做核酸检测。
I asked the doctor can do nucleic acid test directly, the hospital said no, have to do CT before doing nucleic acid test.
如果能够给我们做一个核酸检测，我觉得会更保险些。
I think it would be safer if we could have a nucleic acid test.
2月18日，中心人民医院的医生帮忙做检查万幸，血检结果显示除了淋巴细胞偏低，我老婆各项指标正常。
On February 18, doctors at the Central People's Hospital helped with the tests. Fortunately, the blood tests showed that my wife was doing well except for the low lymphocytes.
最后医生给我们开了两盒头孢，让我们回家隔离。
At last the doctor gave us two boxes of cefres, and told us to go home and quarantine.
孝感市中心医院留观室期间政府每个部门都只想着把自己的事情解决好，不断地向我了解情况，但只限于流程和沟通，没有实际的行动解决问题。
Xiaogan City Central Hospital during the observation room each government departments only want to solve their own affairs, constantly asked me to understand the situation, but only limited to the process and communication, there is no actual action to solve the problem.
但病患的病情不断恶化，救治刻不容缓。
But the patient's condition is getting worse and treatment is urgent.
我希望在这样特殊的时期，孝感相关部门可以针对特殊人群采取特殊措施和手段，保障特殊人群的就医问题，不要一刀切，不考虑实际情况。
I hope that in such a special period, filial piety-related departments can take special measures and means for special groups of people to ensure that the medical treatment of special groups of people, not across the board, do not take into account the actual situation.
家人都被送往隔离点虽然基本排除了是新型冠状病毒感染的可能，但社区的工作人员还是让我们去强制隔离。
Family members were sent to the quarantinable site and although the possibility of a new coronavirus infection was largely ruled out, the community workers asked us to be forcibly quarantined.
考虑到我老婆是孕妇，他们允许我留在家里照顾她，我把父母和妹妹安排去了隔离点。
Considering that my wife was pregnant and they allowed me to stay at home to look after her, I arranged for my parents and sister to be separated.
说实话，把我家里没有症状的正常人安排到隔离点，我有点接受不了。
To tell you the truth, I can't accept the isolation of a normal person who has no symptoms in my family.
因为隔离酒店的环境很糟糕，特别不卫生，马桶上有污渍、床上有头发和烟头，很明显没有经过清洁消毒。
Because the isolated hotel environment is very poor, particularly unsanitary, toilet stains, bed hair and cigarette butts, it is obvious that there is no cleaning disinfection.
让我更愤怒的是，这个隔离酒店什么人都有。
What makes me even angrier is that this isolated hotel is for everyone.
住过发热和高度疑似病人，卫生条件还这么差，这比我们出门受感染的风险还要高。
Living with a fever and a high level of suspicion, sanitation conditions are still so poor, which is higher than our risk of getting infected when we go out.
让我家的老人住在那里14天，如果出了事，谁负责呢？既然政府强制要求我们去隔离点，我们会配合。
Let my old man live there for 14 days, and if anything happens, who is responsible? Since the government has forced us to go to the quarantine point, we will cooperate.
但最起码政府要有能力承担起隔离的责任，把工作做好。
But at the very least, the government needs to be able to take responsibility for isolation and do its job well.
那个环境是不让人信服的环境。
That environment is an unconvincing one.
从我一个普通人的亲身经历来看，当地政府在这次疫情防控中办事的能力和逻辑不符合常识，有种自己糊弄自己的形式主义在里面，隔离没有起到隔离的作用。
From the personal experience of one of my ordinary people, the ability and logic of the local government in the prevention and control of this epidemic is not common sense, there is a kind of self-deception formalism in it, isolation does not have the effect of isolation.
2月22日下午五点钟，我为老婆测体温时，发现她又发烧了。
February 22nd, at five o'clock p.m., when I took my wife's temperature, I found that she had a fever again.
我就联系了社区的负责人，社区安排送我们去卫生院，我觉得这个时候去卫生院不合适，因为之前去过卫生院，他们说没有医疗条件来为做检测或治疗。
I contacted the head of the community, and the community arranged for us to be taken to the clinic, which I felt was inappropriate at this time, because I had been to the clinic before and they said there was no medical condition for testing or treatment.
但社区执意让我们去，就在去卫生院的路上，我老婆高烧不断，还出现了颤抖、昏厥的症状。
But the community insisted that we go, just on the way to the health center, my wife has a high fever, there are shivering, fainting symptoms.
5点45分，我们到了卫生院，当时医生开始测体温，我说人现在非常的不行了，要昏了。
At 5: 45, we arrived at the clinic, when the doctor began to take a temperature, I said that the person is now very bad, faint.
医生却说他没办法，帮我联系96120。
The doctor said he could do nothing to help me reach 96120.
我说这不是没有意义吗？把人拖过来在这里耗着。
Don't I say it's pointless? Drag people over here and waste them.
医生回应说他们也是按程序来办事。
Doctors responded that they followed the procedure, too.
他们按程序办事儿，可病人等不起呀，在等待的期间我的老婆开始呕吐了。
They followed the procedure, but the patient couldn't wait. My wife began to vomit during the waiting period.
吐了三次，最高体温去到39.3度，中间也做了一个血检，结果不是很好，免疫细胞基本为零，是病危的人。
He vomited three times, his highest temperature went to 39.3 degrees, and he had a blood test in the middle. The result was not very good.
那个医生跟我说，现在不是新冠肺炎的问题，也不是保大人还是保小孩的问题了，现在大人和小孩都会出现生命危险。
The doctor told me that this was not a case of pneumonia, nor was it a matter of protecting adults or children, who were now in danger.
卫生院帮我们联系了车子，一直等到八点钟，他们说把我们送到区的妇幼医院。
The clinic contacted the car and waited until eight o'clock. They said they would take us to the district maternity and child hospital.
我比较担心区的妇幼医院不肯接收我们，因为之前就是这样。
I'm worried that the maternity and children's hospitals in the district won't accept us because that's what happened before.
我就又联系社区的负责人，社区说到了妇幼医院再说，如果妇幼医院再不接收，他们再想办法。
I contacted the community leaders, and the community talked about maternal and child hospitals saying that if they don't accept them again, they'll figure it out.
我觉得很可笑，只是走一个流程而已。
I think it's funny. It's just a process.
如果人去那边白等两个小时，岂不是拿生命当儿戏。
If you wait there for two hours, you're not making fun of your life.
很庆幸的是这个救护车是从中心医院过来的，他们说如果妇幼医院不接收的话，他们可以到中心医院去。
Thankfully, the ambulance came from the central hospital and they said they could go to the central hospital if the mother and child hospitals did not accept it.
最后我们就到了中心医院做检查，结果非常糟糕，人非常危险，没有免疫力。
Finally we went to the central hospital for a check-up, the results were very bad, people are very dangerous, not immune.
当天我们一直在外面等结果，医院说今天必须要做CT检查了。
We were waiting outside all day for the results, and the hospital said a CT scan was needed today.
我希望他们尽快解决我老婆高烧的问题。
I hope they get rid of my wife's high fever as soon as possible.
但一直断断续续地进行各种检查，一直等到十一点多才住院。
However, various checks were carried out intermittently until more than eleven o'clock before being admitted to the hospital.
老婆住下后，我想回家弄点吃，但没有车，只好步行14公里回去。
When my wife moved in, I wanted to go home and get something to eat, but I had no car and had to walk 14 kilometers back.
凌晨2点半开车回到了医院，准备给她做CT扫描。
I drove back to the hospital at 2: 30 in the morning for a CT scan.
CT扫描结果排除了我老婆患的是新冠肺炎。
The CT scan ruled out a new crown pneumonia in my wife.
2月23日零点，邹杰步行回家的路上空荡荡的从14日到现在，我每天都会接到市防疫、区防疫、社区防疫、120等各个部门的问询电话，但我觉得作用不大。
February 23rd At 0 o'clock Zou Jie walked home empty From 14 to the present, I received daily from the city epidemic prevention, regional epidemic prevention, community epidemic prevention, 120 and other departments of the inquiry telephone, but I do not think the role of much.
打电话不能治病，打电话也不能退烧，不能解决病人治疗的问题。
Caller can not cure a disease, telephone can not reduce the fever, can not solve the problem of patient treatment.
到最后，我们做了各种该做的检查，CT也做了，但发烧的问题也没得到治疗。
At the end of the day, we did all the tests we needed to do and the CT did, but the fever was not treated either.
我现在不知道宝宝以后会有什么问题，身体又会有怎样的隐患。
I don't know now what kind of problem the baby will have in the future, what kind of hidden trouble the body will have.
「相关文章」疫区日记 I我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”「征集活动」无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系分享你与疫情的故事「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信。
We want to do something for the city 120 ambulance. "We live in the same home, but we can not meet each other" "Call for information" Whether you are living in the same home, you can not meet each other.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
如果你是湖北孝感的一位发热孕妇。
If you are a feverish pregnant woman in Hubei province.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "如果你是湖北孝感的一位发热孕妇";。
var msg _ title = & quot; if you were a feverish pregnant woman and & quot; & quot; with Hubei's sense of piety.
var msg_desc = "“我现在不知道宝宝的身体以后会有什么隐患”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "I don't know what's at stake with my baby now."
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫区日记 I',。
A diary I & apos; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情',。
We are from Wuhan and would like to do something with & apos; for this city.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
