一名重症患者家属的自白。
Confessions from a family member of a seriously ill patient.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
“- 疫情 之 下 -看到爸爸如此坚强的内心和乐观的心理状态，我也充满了信心。
-Under the Epidemic - Seeing Dad so strong inside and optimistic, I was also full of confidence.
” 故 事 练 习 生 习 作  第  58  篇1月20日晚间，钟南山院士对“新型肺炎人传人”的一句肯定，让全国各地陷入对病毒感染的无限恐慌之中。
On the evening of January 20, Academician Zhong Nan-shan gave an affirmation of the "new human-to-human transmission of pneumonia" and plunged the whole country into a perpetual panic over the virus.
一时之间，所有药房的口罩、酒精几乎售罄，武汉“封城”，举国闭门，人人自危。
In a while, all pharmacies of respirators, alcohol almost sold out, Wuhan "closed", the whole country closed doors, everyone is in danger.
疫情爆发，恰逢春节前夕。
The outbreak coincided with Spring Festival Eve.
虽然漫天都是疫情报道，但这依然冲不散我回家过年的喜悦。
Although the epidemic is reported all over the world, but this still does not wash away my happy New Year home.
小年夜的傍晚，吃过晚饭，我坐在公寓的地板上一边哼着曲儿收拾行李，一边美滋滋盘算着这次回家一定要大吃一通。
On a small evening, after dinner, I sat on the floor of my apartment humming and packing, thinking that I would have a big meal when I got home.
然而，这一切和平美好的小幸福，在我接到妈妈的一个电话之后，支离破碎。
However, all this peace and good little happiness, after I received a call from my mother, broken up.
故事时间：2020.1.20—至今故事地点：上海1“小Y！你爸爸被隔离住院了！”接到妈妈的电话，是在21日的午后。
The Story Time: 2020.1.20 The Story Location: 1 Shanghai 1 "Little Y! Your father was quarantined!" Got a call from his mother on the 21st afternoon.
那天阳光不错，站在办公室的落地窗前，十几摄氏度的气温，把人晒得浑身懒懒洋洋。
It was a sunny day, standing in front of the office window, a dozen degrees Celsius temperature, people lazy all over lazy.
但此时，听到这个噩耗的我却止不住浑身发冷。
But at this point, I could not help feeling chilled at the sad news.
“怎么回事？不是小感冒吗？”我有点焦急。
"What's the matter? Isn't it a little cold?" I was a little anxious.
“开始有发热症状了，你爸1月初去过武汉。
"Your father went to Wuhan in early January.
医院怀疑可能是……”消息来得太突然，我的思维还停留在昨晚：不是说小感冒不打紧吗？依稀记得，妈妈明明昨晚还笑爸爸嫌弃输液室的环境不好，非要她把晚饭拿到车上去吃。
The hospital suspected it might be... "The news came too suddenly, and my mind stayed on the last night: Didn't I say that the flu wasn't tight? As I remember, my mother clearly laughed last night that my father hated the infusion room and insisted she take dinner to the car.
等等！他们在车上一起吃了晚饭？“妈妈你怎么样？有哪儿不舒服吗？”“我也被隔离了。
Wait! They had dinner together in the car? "How are you, Mom? Is there anything wrong?" "I was quarantined.
就在你爸病房的对面。
Right across from your dad's ward.
”不出意外，妈妈也进去了。
"No surprise, my mother went in too.
彼时，武汉肺炎“人传人”的消息才过两天，尽管口罩坐地起价，武汉消息满天飞，但我万万没想到，疫情竟离我们如此之近。
At that time, Wuhan pneumonia "person-to-person" news only two days later, although the mask sat on the ground price, Wuhan news everywhere, but I never expected that the epidemic so close to us.
当天下午，医院传来了消息，爸爸的核酸检测为阳性，成为该市确诊第一例。
That afternoon, the hospital reported that the father's nucleic acid test is positive, the city's first confirmed case.
我原本打算除夕当天一早返程，无奈爸爸坚持不让我回去：“你回来干什么？我和你妈妈都在医院，家里人都没有，你还不如就在那儿待着给我们省省心。
I had intended to return early on New Year's Eve, but my father insisted that I should not go back: "What are you doing here? Your mother and I are both in the hospital.
”爸爸强硬的态度不容拒绝，考虑再三，为了安慰家中的老人，也为了躲避春运高峰、保护自身安全，我退掉了好不容易定点抢到的高铁票，对爷爷奶奶谎称外面事态严重，高铁危险系数太大，这次就不聚在一起吃年夜饭了，等疫情过去了再好好一起吃一吃。
"Dad's tough attitude can't be refused, repeatedly, to comfort the elderly family, but also to avoid the spring rush, to protect their own safety, I gave up the hard-won high-speed rail tickets, told grandparents that the outside push is serious, high-speed rail danger coefficient is too big, this time do not get together to eat dinner, after the epidemic has passed.
吃不吃我不知道，但这个年，我注定过不好了。
Don't eat I don't know, but this year, I'm doomed.
自那天起，我坚持每天和妈妈视频电话，还给爸爸写了一封长长的信，感谢爸爸拼搏和坚定信念的精神，这么多年一直影响着自己，让自己也成长为和他一样优秀聪明努力的人。
From that day on, I kept on talking to my mother on the video every day and wrote a long letter to my father thanking him for his hard work and determination.
为了保持自己情绪的稳定，我每天和朋友CC保持通话。
To maintain my emotional stability, I keep in touch with my friend CC every day.
尽管生活按部就班地继续着，但我知道，自己内心的压力与煎熬，压得我快喘不上气了。
Although life continues in an orderly manner, but I know that their own internal pressure and suffering, pressure I am almost out of breath.
除夕就要来了，尽管疫情仍在扩散，年还是要过，饭也要吃。
New Year's Eve is coming. Even though the epidemic is still spreading, we still have to eat our food.
我原以为这已经是最糟糕的情况，却不想这只是噩梦的开始。
I thought it was the worst, but I didn't think it was just the beginning of a nightmare.
2“小Y，医院那边下了转院通知，你爸爸情况好像不太好了。
"Little Y, your father seems to be in a bad way after the transfer from the hospital.
”就在卫健委通告全国这次疫情杀伤力远不如2003年的非典时，我们收到医院通知：爸爸转重症了，必须尽快送XX医院和其他患者一起集中治疗——因为那里集中了全省最好的专家团队。
When the health committee informed the nation that the epidemic was far less deadly than SARS in 2003, we received a notification from the hospital that Dad was in serious condition and needed to be sent to XX hospital as soon as possible for intensive care with other patients - because there was the best team of specialists in the province.
但这也意味着，爸爸和妈妈要分开了。
But it also means that father and mother are going to be separated.
这些天，这对患难夫妻即使都被隔离着，但因为知道对方就在身边，就在离自己对面不到10米开外的地方，心上总算是有寄托的。
These days, even if the couple were isolated, but knowing that the other side of the side, less than 10 meters away from their own, the heart is finally sustenance.
俩人互相依赖着，才能坚持到今天。
The two of them depend on each other to hold out until today.
“我妈现在情绪有点崩溃，我爸也不想去那个医院。
"My mom is a little upset and my dad doesn't want to go to that hospital.
”我很难受，给医院打了电话，想尽可能帮助爸妈。
"I felt terrible and phoned the hospital to help my parents as much as possible.
果不其然，对于分开这件事，即使夫妻双方都是拒绝的，医院的态度也是强硬的。
Sure enough, the hospital's attitude toward separation is tough, even if both spouses refuse.
医生把转院告知书的图片传给了我。
The doctor handed me a picture of the transfer.
我终于知道为什么妈妈如此恐惧——因为告知书上面赫然写着“重症、呼吸衰竭、请家属知悉”等信息。
I finally knew why my mother was so scared because the note said, "Severe illness, respiratory failure, family members' knowledge."
这些字眼亮晃晃的扎得人眼疼，谁也不知道转院后的情况——爸爸一个人转过去行吗？有人能照顾好他吗？这么多病人一起治疗，会不会交叉感染？尽管恐惧，但我们心里清楚，不转，也许就是等死。
These words dazzle the eyes pain, no one knows the situation after the transfer - Dad alone can it? Can someone take care of him? So many patients together, can cross-infection? Despite fear, but we know, do not turn, may be waiting for death.
没有更好的办法，爸爸最后还是转院了。
There was no better way. Dad ended up in the hospital.
妈妈继续留在医院隔离观察，但渐渐也陆续出现了咳嗽、发热的迹象。
Mother continued to stay in the hospital for observation, but gradually there were signs of cough and fever.
为了减缓症状，增强免疫力，医生开始给她用药，希望能控制病情的发展。
To slow the symptoms and boost her immunity, the doctor began to give her medication in the hope of controlling the disease.
一个人的日子总是难熬一些。
A person's life is always a little tough.
就这样，除夕夜到了。
In this way, New Year's Eve came.
3这个春节过得简简单单，全国人民难得的默契，夜空中干干净净，没有什么礼花。
The Spring Festival passed simply, the people of the country rarely tacit understanding, the night sky clean, there are no fireworks.
除夕夜，我去朋友家一起包了饺子，三鲜馅的饺子很可爱，趁着饺子下锅的时候，我高兴地传了几张照片给CC，展示自己第一次优秀的包饺技术。
On New Year's Eve, I went to my friends' house to make dumplings. The dumplings with three fresh stuffing were lovely. While making the dumplings, I happily passed some photos to CC to show off my first excellent dumpling technique.
坎坎坷坷，终于也算是吃了顿热腾腾的年夜饭。
The bumpy road is bumpy, finally also ate a hot dinner.
朋友们也陆续知道了我家的事，看到我终于能打起精神努力生活的样子，有点心疼，也放心了些。
Friends also know about my family one after another, to see that I can finally pick up the spirit of hard life, a little distressed, but also relieved.
大年初五的早晨，医院传来了一个好消息：妈妈核酸检测为阴性，可以出院了！和妈妈通完电话后，我迫不及待和CC分享了这个消息：“特别高兴！我感觉自己这么多天的坚持终于有了价值！”那个上午，我们聊了很久，聊疫情结束之后的旅行计划，哪里的海更蓝，哪里的建筑更迷人；聊回家后要好好抱抱爸妈，甚至还互相分享吐槽了这些天如何更快更有效地在各大APP线上抢蔬菜水果的心得。
After talking to my mother on the phone, I couldn't wait to share the news with CC: "I'm so happy! I feel so much more valuable after so many days!" That morning we talked for a long time about our post-epidemic plans, where the sea is bluer and buildings are more attractive.
我的身心太久没放松下来，听到自己久违的高昂的语调声，觉得自己又活了过来。
My body and mind have not relaxed for too long, heard their long-ago high-pitched voice, feel that they have come back to life.
“妈妈今天就回家了，但还是需要在家自我隔离14天，不能出门。
"" Mom went home today, but she still had to be kept in isolation for 14 days and couldn't go out.
他们年前就进了医院，现在家里什么都没有，一点儿物资都没准备。
They went to the hospital years ago, and now they have nothing at home and no supplies at all.
”考虑到现实生计问题，我们暂时中断了天马行空的畅聊，联系了离家住的比较近的小姨。
"In consideration of our present livelihood, we temporarily cut short our casual conversation and contacted our nearest aunt who was away from home.
一番沟通后，小姨自告奋勇提出，隔离期间妈妈的饭由她负责。
After some communication, aunt volunteered to put her mother in charge of food during the isolation period.
挂了电话，我打开房间的窗户，几缕光线从云隙中洒下来，下了几天的雨终于停了。
Hang up the phone, I opened the window of the room, a few rays of light from the clouds, after a few days of rain finally stopped.
所有的事情都在往好的方向发展。
Everything is moving in the right direction.
4淅淅沥沥的雨，停了一天又开始下起来。
After a day's pause, the rain began to fall again.
天有点阴沉。
It was a little overcast.
2月的第一天深夜，我接到了医院的电话。
Late at night on the first day of February, I got a call from the hospital.
“你好，是XX吗？我是XX医院的，是你爸爸XXX的主治医生。
"Hello, is XX? I am XX hospital, is your father XXX attending doctor.
我们很遗憾地告知你，目前患者情况不太乐观。
We regret to inform you that the patient situation is not very good at present.
我们讨论考虑需要换一种治疗方式，可能要增加用药量，不排除上呼吸机的可能，治愈后也可能仍留有部分后遗症。
We discussed the need to consider the need for a different treatment, possibly with an increased dose, without excluding the possibility of a ventilator, and which may still have partial sequelae after the cure.
对于治疗方式的更换，我们需要家属签字同意。
For a change of treatment, we need the signature of the family.
”一天没联系，医生的语气很疲惫。
"The doctor's tone was tired after a day of silence.
“好的，我考虑一下给您回电。
"Well, I'll think about calling you back
”我不自觉握紧了手机，听到自己回复的声音，礼貌且平静。
"I involuntarily gripped my phone and listened to my own reply, polite and calm.
其实我有点害怕。
I'm actually a little scared.
我不知道回去后，等待我的是怎样的现实，或者说直接是结局？但现实情况不允许我犹犹豫豫，尽管家人们还是反对，但作为女儿，我真心希望自己不要做出今后也许会后悔的决定。
I don't know what reality, or the end, awaits me on my return, but reality does not permit me to hesitate, and despite the family's objections, as a daughter I sincerely hope not to make decisions that I may regret in the future.
工作可以请假，现在也不是春运高峰，仔细做好防护工作，我坚信，两小时的飞行还是可行的。
Work can ask for leave, now is not the peak of spring transportation, careful protection work, I firmly believe that the two-hour flight is still feasible.
也许回去是内心挣扎已久的想法，想通后，我马上打开手机查看最近的航班。
Maybe going back is something I've been struggling with for a long time. I open my cell phone and check the nearest flight.
“你先联系医院，回去后想办法见一面主治医生，虽然我们不懂医疗，情况还是要了解清楚的。
"You get to the hospital first, then you go back and try to meet a attending doctor, and even though we don't know anything about medical care, the situation needs to be clear.
还有，你妈妈在家隔离，委托授权书也一起准备好吧。
Also, your mother is isolated at home, and the power of attorney is ready.
”我把情况告诉了CC，她尽可能想为我多考虑一些情况，多做好一些准备，这样回去后不会太过慌乱。
I told CC, and she tried to think more about the situation for me and to be better prepared so she wouldn't get too flustered when I got back.
“回去后先去见医生，口罩多备几个，及时换新。
"After going back to see the doctor, a few more masks, timely replacement.
一定要保护好自己。
Be sure to protect yourself.
”“我们等你回来。
"We will wait till you return.
加油。
Come on.
”“加油。
"Come on.
”第二天，我搭上了回家的飞机。
The next day I got on the plane home.
望着窗外的天空，我想，即使困难重重，陪在家人身边，做好一切后盾，坚定信念，就是我最大的力量。
Looking out of the window of the sky, I think, even difficult, to stay with their families, do all the backing, firm belief, is my greatest strength.
5两小时后，我顺利下机。
After two hours, I got off the plane smoothly.
我见到了这几天一直辛苦送饭送水果的小姨，简单了解情况后，小姨送我到了爸爸的医院。
I have seen these days have been working hard to bring fruit aunt, after a brief understanding of the situation, aunt sent me to my father's hospital.
医院的防控措施非常严格，私家车只能开到院门口，一下车，一群医护人员对着我们和车内喷洒酒精。
Hospital control measures are very strict, private cars can only drive to the front yard, get off the car, a group of medical personnel spray alcohol at us and the car.
小姨不是直系亲属，不能进院。
Aunt is not a direct relative and cannot enter the hospital.
我一个人走进了医生办公室，谈了近一小时后，我在患者家属谈话记录上签了字，并同意了更换治疗方法。
I walked into the doctor's office alone, talked for almost an hour, signed the transcript of the patient's family conversation, and agreed to a change of treatment.
但是我没有见到病房中的爸爸，也没有见到在家隔离中的妈妈。
But I did not see my father in the ward, nor my mother in isolation at home.
忙完一切后，我在距离家两条街道的酒店办理了入住。
After I was busy, I checked in at a hotel two blocks from my house.
疫情爆发后，家乡的疫情比我工作的城市更为严重。
After the outbreak, the epidemic in my hometown was more serious than in the city where I worked.
酒店没有开业，只剩几个干净的房间，和经理沟通了情况后，酒店答应给我提供住宿，但是没有清扫服务，一切自理。
The hotel did not open, only a few clean rooms left, and after communicating with the manager, the hotel agreed to provide me with accommodation, but no cleaning services, everything on its own.
“这样也好，现在和越多的人接触，危险就越多一分。
"So much the better. The more people you meet now, the more dangerous you are.
“CC觉得这反而是个好事，这样大家都安全。
CC thought it was a good thing, so everyone was safe.
“是的，我现在刚刚进房间，刚去超市买了些水果吃的。
"Yes, I have just come into my room and have just gone to the supermarket to buy some fruit to eat.
”放下了购物袋，我接着说道：“我和医生沟通过了，爸爸的情况确实不太好，开始有并发症了。
Putting down my shopping bag, I continued, "I talked to the doctor. Dad was really not doing very well and was beginning to have complications.
我们现在在和其他医院调配，条件允许的话，可能开始要用抗肺纤维化药物。
We're now working with other hospitals, and if conditions permit, we may start using anti-pulmonary fibrosis drugs.
”我把刚签字的谈话记录确认书传给了CC。
I sent the confirmation of the transcript of the conversation that I had just signed to CC.
尽管情况确实不如想象的乐观，但是一回到这里，我的内心终于如释重负，轻松了许多。
Although the situation is not as optimistic as I thought, but once back here, I finally feel relieved and relieved a lot.
事发前，我和爸爸几乎不怎么说话，也很少沟通。
Before the incident, my father and I hardly spoke, and seldom communicated.
回来后，我每天和爸爸发微信，鼓励他要坚强，虽然他常常只回复我一两个字，但我心里踏实多了。
When I came back, I wrote to him every day to encourage him to be strong, and though he would often reply to me only a word or two, I felt much better.
虽然他身体上承受着巨大的痛苦，但只要身体好一点，能在床上坐起来，他就开始办公了。
Although he suffered a great deal physically, as long as he was well enough to sit up in bed, he began to work.
他说：“现在不是个人如何，而是一些社会责任使然。
"It's not about individuals, it's about social responsibility," he said.
”我了解到，这次疫情对餐饮旅游业影响比较大。
"I understand that the epidemic is having a greater impact on the catering industry.
他打算公司在手续费、通道费及扣点上对商户上半年全免，员工的工资也必须要保障落实。
He intends the company in handling fees, access fees and deduction point on the first half of the merchants are free of charge, employees' wages must be guaranteed to implement.
这虽然也加重了公司的压力，但我们绝不能在这时候把员工推向社会，造成更大的不稳定。
This may also add to the pressure on companies, but we must not push employees into society at this time, creating greater instability.
”爸爸是在我读书时就自己创业做公司的，平时工作很忙。
"My father started my own business while I was at school, and I was very busy at work.
这次武汉出差后，来不及做出任何决策，就临时被隔离带到医院。
This Wuhan business trip, no time to make any decision, temporary isolation was taken to the hospital.
疫情爆发后，人心惶惶，我没想到爸爸即使身处ICU，还心系员工与社会，也许这就是中国企业家的社会责任使然。
After the outbreak, panic, I did not think Dad even in the ICU, but also care about employees and society, perhaps this is the social responsibility of Chinese entrepreneurs.
从爸爸身上，我学到的不只是拼搏，耐心，还有使命感。
From Dad, I learned more than just struggle, patience, and a sense of mission.
“爸爸心里是开心的，他在做他想做的事情。
"Daddy is happy in his heart. He's doing what he wants to do.
这么久以来，我们都劝他要多休息，想吃什么，却忽视了他内心的需求。
For so long we have advised him to take more rest and eat what he wants, ignoring his inner needs.
爸爸讲出那番话后，我突然明白，不仅仅是生理，我们更要关注他内心的感受变化。
When Dad said that, it suddenly dawned on me that it's not just physiology. It's more about how he feels.
”看到爸爸如此坚强的内心和乐观的心理状态，我也充满了信心。
"I was also full of confidence to see my father's strong heart and optimistic state of mind.
保持着巨大的耐心和责任，2月8号，医院传来消息，爸爸终于病情有了好转，不需要24小时戴着呼吸机了。
With a great deal of patience and responsibility, on Feb. 8, word came from the hospital that Dad was finally getting better and did not need a 24-hour ventilator.
医生说，这意味着他的肺功能在逐渐恢复了。
Doctors say this means his lungs are gradually returning to normal.
我特别高兴，那一天晚饭都多盛了一碗。
I was particularly glad to have had an extra bowl of dinner that day.
截止目前，爸爸的核酸检测仍为阳性，淋巴细胞等生理指数也不达标，依然是ICU的重症患者。
So far, the father's nucleic acid test is still positive, lymphocytes and other physiological indicators are not up to standard, is still ICU serious patients.
但总体情况，已然比年前好了许多。
But the overall picture is much better than it was a year ago.
回想这一段曲折的经历，我想起爸妈从小就把我送到国外念书，遇事也很少帮我解决，他们有事也不会告诉我。
Looking back on the twists and turns of this experience, I remember my parents sent me to study abroad when I was a child, and rarely helped me out when things happened.
尤其是爸爸，印象中总是埋头努力做着事业，为我提供很好的物质基础，其余一切都靠自己。
Dad, in particular, is always the impression of efforts to do business, to provide me with a good material basis, the rest of the rest on their own.
我想，这次疫情结束后，也许我们的相处模式依然少言寡语。
I think, after this epidemic, maybe we still have a pattern of silence.
但通过这次成长，我更理解了为人父母的心，与他们无私奉献的品质。
But through this growth, I understand the hearts of parents, and their selfless dedication to the quality.
这种奉献，不止对我，这也是对公司、对社会的坚持。
This kind of dedication, not only to me, but also to the company, to the community adhere to.
我们知道，中国爸爸的情感颗粒度是非常粗糙的，他们不沟通，不说话，不解释。
We know that Chinese dad's emotional granularity is very rough, they do not communicate, do not speak, do not explain.
但却常常会在背后尽自己最大努力，为我们提供最安全美好的世界。
But often we do our best behind our backs to provide us with the safest and best world.
因为，这就是他们表达父爱的方式。
Because this is how they express fatherly love.
（本文系朋友口述采写。
This article was taken orally by a friend.
）-END-- 我 是 故 事 练 习 生 -作者|CC，青年作者。
---- I'm a certified student. --Author & # 160; CC, young writer.
题图|《流感》剧照华中科技大学出版社·武汉战“疫”数博馆抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情作品资料正在征集中——【征集要求】＊来稿应为未公开发表和出版的内容，题材不限，VLOG、文字、图片等均可，务必客观真实，​反映疫情当下的民生现况及个人见闻；＊提供作品者都将获得华中科技大学出版社提供的“宅家悦读大礼包”；＊作品一旦录用，将提供完整规范的版权保护。
2007-9-25 09: 49 China University of Science and Technology Press Wuhan Battle Plague Collection of materials for the fight against the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia is being solicited. All submissions should be published in an objective and factual manner that reflects the current state of the people's livelihood and personal information.
【投稿方式】音视频：2279281426@qq.com文字：423322329@qq.com图片：454578039@qq.com或点击下方链接直接投稿http://2019ncov.xiushewang.com/请务必留下真实姓名及详细联系方式。
Audio and Video: 2279281426 @ qq.com Text: 423322329 @ qq.com Photo: 454578039 @ qq.com or click the link below to contribute directly http: / / 2019ncov.xiushewang.com / Please make sure to leave your real name and contact details.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一名重症患者家属的自白。
Confessions from a family member of a seriously ill patient.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "一名重症患者家属的自白";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a confession from a family member with serious illness;;
var msg_desc = "看到爸爸如此坚强的内心和乐观的心理状态，我也充满了信心。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I was also confident to see Dad's heart so strong and optimistic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
