没错，我就是个做口罩的。
Yeah, I'm just a mask-maker.
丁家幺女。
Ding's youngest daughter.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
“- 疫情 之 下 -她们加班加点的多生产一片，老百姓就少一份因为口罩紧缺带来的恐慌；多生产一片，政府部门的抗疫情压力就会减轻一份；多生产一片，人与人之间就多了一个传递守护和关心的桥梁。
"- In the face of the epidemic - they work overtime to produce more than one piece, people have less fear because of the shortage of face masks; more production reduces the pressure on government departments to fight the epidemic; more production creates an additional bridge between people to deliver care and care.
”1作为一个只有79名职工的服装厂员工，肖燕从来都没想到，有一天他们厂的人，从老板到员工，会在亲戚朋友、远亲旧邻眼里的地位那么高，直到2020年的2月8号。
As an employee of a clothing factory with 79 employees, Xiao Yan never thought that one day the people in his factory, from the boss to the employees, would be so well-positioned in the eyes of relatives, friends and distant relatives in the old neighborhood until February 8, 2020.
因为，那天他们厂开始生产口罩了。
Because, that day, their factory began to produce masks.
2月8号，老板在员工群发布通知，暂时只需要36个本地机工即可，其他员工的复工时间等通知。
On Feb. 8, the boss issued a notice to his staff that only 36 local mechanics would be needed for the time being, and other employees would be required to return to work.
原本，已经做好复工准备的肖燕，转头继续做起了家务。
Originally, had made preparations for the resumption of work Xiao Yan, turned around and continued to do housework.
这种准备好上班又不能上班的失落并没有持续多久，肖燕的班长很快给她来了电话：“明天7点半到班，自己带午饭。
The loss of being ready to go to work and not be able to go to work did not last long. Xiao Yan's squad leader quickly called her: "Tomorrow at 7: 30 to work, to bring their own lunch.
”做口罩不仅需要机工，还需要剪线头、包装的辅工。
Masks require not only mechanics, but also tailoring and packaging auxiliaries.
肖燕从全国至今还在等通知的若干就业人员里率先以口罩辅工的职业身份，走出了家门，走进了自己的工作单位。
Xiao Yan from the country is still waiting for notification of a number of employees to be the first to work as a mask auxiliary, out of the home, into their own work unit.
这是肖燕工作十几年来，最严格以及最复杂的一次复工。
This is Xiao Yan's more than a decade of work, the most stringent and complex return to work.
她必须准备好复工材料以及个人轨迹证明材料。
She had to have back-to-work materials and a personal locus of proof.
首先，要把身份证正面拍好了发到员工群里；其次，按照个人轨迹证明方法指导要求，将自己的活动轨迹发到员工群里。
First, the front of the ID card should be taken and distributed to the staff. Second, follow the instructions of the individual track proof method and send your activities to the staff.
老板收集好员工的这两个材料后，随后统一交至街道企业复工指导组。
The boss collects these two materials of the staff, and then uniformly submits them to the Street Enterprise Return to Work Guidance Team.
指导组再进行审核。
The Steering Group conducts further audits.
图|复工必备材料之一个人轨迹证明材料肖燕并不明白这个材料和她复工有什么关系。
One of the must-have materials for returning to work. Xiao Yan did not understand how the material had anything to do with her return to work.
直到隔了两天，她的两个同事被劝返回家时，她才知道其意义。
It was not until two days later, when two of her colleagues were persuaded to return home, that she knew what it meant.
第二天一大早，肖燕带着自己老公给自己备好的盒饭，戴好口罩后才拉开门。
Early the next morning, Xiao Yan and her husband prepared their own boxed rice, wearing a mask before opening the door.
不到7点半，她就到厂里了。
She was at the factory before half past seven.
严格意义上来说，是到了厂门口了。
Strictly speaking, it is the gate of the factory.
迎接她的是个穿着白色防护服、带着白色口罩，整张脸只露出两只乌溜溜眼睛的同事。
She was greeted by a colleague in a white suit and a white mask whose entire face revealed only two dark-eyed colleagues.
平常热情开朗的同事，看到戴着口罩的肖燕走至跟前时，瞬间拘谨起来。
Usually warm and cheerful colleagues, see Xiao Yan wearing a mask to the front, momentarily stiffen up.
肖燕觉得有点滑稽，但这么严肃的事情，她不好开玩笑。
Xiao Yan thought it was funny, but she was not funny about such a serious matter.
同事给她测完体温，分发完口罩和防护服，指导她洗手消毒后，才放她进厂。
Colleagues took her temperature, distributed masks and protective clothing, and instructed her to wash hands and disinfect before releasing her into the factory.
整个过程中，两人的交谈不超过十句话。
The two talked for no more than ten sentences.
这些流程，也成为了肖燕接下来每天进厂时的第一步工作。
These flow, also became the first work that Xiao Yan enters the factory next day.
肖燕穿戴好这些物件，走进自己的工作间时，百感交集。
Xiao Yan wears these things well and walks into her workplace with mixed feelings.
不知道是要为厂里重视普通工人的生命安全而高兴，还是该为新冠肺炎离自己的生活并不远而紧张。
I do not know whether to be happy for the factory to pay attention to the lives of ordinary workers, or for the new crown pneumonia not far from their lives and tension.
2进厂后，班长又交代，以后在班不准聚集交谈、不准聚集吃饭、取消午休、没有休息日、不准请假、同事间远距离工作等各项要求。
2 After entering the factory, the squad leader said, after the class is not allowed to gather to talk, not to gather for dinner, to cancel lunch break, no rest day, no leave of absence, remote work among colleagues, and so on.
不光是她们工作间的同事保持着距离，就是机工们也是一个个间隔开来的。
Not only did their co-workers keep their distance, but the mechanics were separated from each other.
往常这些女同胞们，都是哪里热闹往哪里凑的。
Usually these women, are where the bustle and where to put together.
肖燕听完各种要求和注意事项后，终于拿起了剪刀和半成品口罩。
Xiao Yan listened to all kinds of requirements and attention, finally picked up scissors and semi-finished masks.
上班总比待岗强，即便条件这么苛刻。
It's better to be at work than at work, even under such harsh conditions.
不过，她也有些纳闷，就做个口罩，至于吗？还没到吃午饭的时候，肖燕就从同事们的话里明白了这些口罩的来龙去脉。
However, she also a little puzzled, make a mask, as for? Before lunch time, Xiao Yan from the colleagues to understand the history of these masks.
口罩不是他们厂的，是政府的。
The mask is not from their factory, it's from the government.
而他们厂能这么早复工，也是政府扶持的。
And their factory can resume work so early, is also supported by the government.
自新冠肺炎爆发以来，口罩一跃成为全中国人民必备、必屯单品。
Since the outbreak of new crown pneumonia, the mask has become a must-have all over China, Bidun single.
即便是现在，全中国能供应口罩的商铺和药店都寥寥无几。
Even now, there are few shops and pharmacies in China that can supply masks.
因为，上游的生产商有限。
Because upstream producers are limited.
口罩的利润不大，基本无利可图，特别是普通防尘口罩。
Masks are not very profitable and are largely unprofitable, especially common dust masks.
此前，全中国这类供应商都数得过来。
Previously, such suppliers had been able to count across China.
哄抢口罩的新闻时不时地在新闻上爆出来；和口罩相关的诈骗新闻也是屡见不鲜；甚至最新的炫富方式也从有猪肉变成了有口罩。
News of the muffle breaks out on the news every once in a while, as do the mask-related scams; even the latest display of wealth has gone from pork to masks.
肖燕知道，肖燕的同事们和杨老板也知道，但他们从来都没想到这和他们厂有什么关系。
Xiao Yan knows that Xiao Yan's colleagues and Yang boss also know, but they never thought that this has anything to do with their factory.
2月5日夜间，杨老板收到了街道的一份倡议。
During the night of February 5, Boss Yang received an initiative from the street.
当晚，他就做出了全力转型生产口罩的决定。
That night, he made the decision to fully transform the mask production.
此前，他们厂里做的都是服装加工的生意，并没有口罩生产经验。
Previously, the factory was doing garment processing business, and did not have experience in mask production.
最主要的是，连口罩的原材料都没有一个。
Most importantly, there is not even a single raw material for the mask.
街道的反馈很迅速，得到答复后，就开始组织班子帮助厂里组织生产要素。
Feedback from the streets was swift, and when responses were received, teams were organized to help organize the factory's production factors.
2月6号开始采购熔喷布、鼻梁条等原材料以及消毒设备，并提供了一间厂房作为无菌车间。
The procurement of raw materials such as molten cloth, nose beams and disinfectant equipment began on February 6, and a plant was provided as a sterile workshop.
2月7号培训和试生产。
February 7th Training and Pilot Production.
2月8号第一批2000个口罩下线。
The first 2,000 masks were taken off line on February 8th.
图|政府采购的熔喷布肖燕被分配在原厂。
AT RATE & # 124; & # 45; Swallow, a government-purchased molten swallows, was distributed at the factory.
她到厂里的那天，厂里的9个机工都已经是生产口罩的熟练工了。
On the day she arrived at the factory, the nine mechanics of the factory were already skilled workers in the production of masks.
尽管她们都穿着碍事的防护服。
Although they were all wearing obscene protective clothing.
肖燕的工作，就是把机工做好的口罩，一个一个修线头，再点个数和包装起来。
Xiao Yan's job is to put the machine to do a good job of masks, one by one repair, then count and wrap.
11个女人分工明确，任务清晰。
Eleven women had a clear division of labour and clear mandates.
3都说“三个女人一台戏”，以往车间里都是东家长、西家短的闲谈八卦声，但这会最响亮的却是缝纫机的声音。
"Three women, one play." The workshop used to be full of gossip and gossip from parents, but the loudest of all was the sound of the sewing machine.
大家都跟换了个人似的，拼劲全力做事情，这让一直很健谈的肖燕感到有点不适应。
Everyone with a change of people, hard to do things, this has been very talkative Xiao Yan feel a bit out of place.
车间里每天都弥漫着若有似无的紧张气息。
In the workshop every day if there seems to be no tension.
这种紧张感，除了是因为出于安全考虑，要少说话、间隔距离工作外，更多的是因为她们都有生产指标。
This tension, apart from security concerns, stems more from the fact that they all have production indicators than from talking less and working at intervals.
做服装时，她们都是流水作业，按期交货就行，对产量并没有要求。
When making clothes, they are the assembly line, on schedule to deliver the goods, production is not required.
现在就不一样了。
It's not the same now.
每个机工每天都有500至600个口罩的生产指标，按个数计产量。
Each mechanic has a production target of 500 to 600 masks per day, measured in terms of output.
11个人除了吃午饭和去卫生间的时候手里拿的不是口罩，其他的时候都是。
The 11 men were not wearing masks when they were eating lunch or going to the bathroom.
起初，大家的生产方法，还是按做服装那套分工序的流水模式，一人做一道工序。
At first, everyone's production methods, or according to the set of garment production process flow model, one person to do a process.
但很快大家就发现，这样做的结果是产量完全无法达标。
But it soon became clear that the result was a total failure to meet production targets.
为了提高效率，机工们很快转变生产模式，不分工序，一人就做一个完整的口罩。
To improve efficiency, mechanics quickly change production patterns, regardless of the process, one person to make a complete mask.
图|机工在做口罩这个方法很凑效，当天她们9个人的产量就都达标。
The mechanic did a very good job of making masks, and all nine met their production targets that day.
加上政府提供的那间车间，两个车间加起来每天能出产1万个左右的口罩。
Together with the workshop provided by the government, the two workshops together produce about 10,000 masks a day.
厂里从转型生产到实现高效率运转，只用了两三天的时间。
It took only two or three days for the plant to move from transformation to efficient operation.
堆起来的口罩成品越来越多。
More and more masks are being piled up.
知道肖燕他们厂里在生产口罩的人越来越多。
More and more people know Xiao Yan is producing masks in their factory.
各种上门认亲的人也越来越多。
More and more people are making relatives through the door.
从老板到员工，每个人每天都有认识不认识的人，找上门来要点和买点口罩，各种攀关系，各种谈交情。
Everyone, from the boss to the staff, meets people they don't know on a daily basis, asks for essentials and buys masks, engages in a variety of relationships, and engages in a variety of conversations.
很多豪气的人，甚至给出了高于市场价几倍的价格来求购。
Many high-spirited people even offer prices several times higher than the market price to buy.
作为一个廉价的劳动密集型中小企业，厂里从老板至员工，从来没有享受过这种待遇。
As a cheap labor-intensive small and medium-sized enterprise, the factory from the boss to the staff, has never enjoyed such treatment.
老板一直在企业家圈子里没有话语权，员工一直在亲戚朋友中间没有炫耀的资本。
Bosses have long had no say in the entrepreneurial world, and employees have had little to show off among their relatives and friends.
但是现在，他们走到哪里都有一堆兄弟姐妹、两肋插刀的朋友。
But now, wherever they go, they have a bunch of brothers and sisters and friends with two ribs.
只要提一句“我是做口罩的”，就行。
Just say, "I'm a mask maker."
肖燕还没去上班的时候，就有各种知情的亲戚找上门来预定口罩了。
Xiao Yan did not go to work, a variety of informed relatives came to the door to book masks.
作为一个普通工人，一天到晚的被人围着，也难免会骄傲。
As an ordinary worker, surrounded by people all day long, will inevitably be proud.
但骄傲归骄傲，甭管有多深的情谊，求口罩的人无一例外，都会被回绝。
But pride is proud, regardless of how deep the friendship, all those who ask for masks, without exception, will be rejected.
亲爹、亲妈也不行。
Not my father or my mother.
不是他们不给面子，而是他们没有权利。
It is not that they do not give face, but that they have no right.
4这些口罩的支配权完全归政府所有。
The control of these masks rests entirely with the Government.
作为最紧缺的抗击疫情防护物资，政府负责统一调度和分配。
As the most urgent anti-epidemic materials, the government is responsible for the unified dispatch and distribution.
每隔一两天，政府都会派人来领取。
Every day or two, the government sends someone to collect it.
知道自己厂里生产的口罩都是政府为了保供应、稳市场、统筹分配的抗疫情防护物资后，肖燕和自己的同事们还是有点自豪的。
Xiao Yan and his colleagues are a bit proud to know that the masks they produce are anti-epidemic protective materials that the government is trying to supply, stabilize the market and distribute in a coordinated manner.
尽管，她们被要求答应复工后就不准请假、中午不准午休、必须完成指标等苛刻条件。
Although they were asked to agree to return to work, they were not allowed to take time off work at noon, they had to fulfil their targets and other harsh conditions.
但是，大家依然每天准点上班，中午饭碗一丢就跑到自己的岗位。
However, people still go to work on time every day, lost their jobs at noon and ran to their posts.
做服装时，肖燕从没见过大家有过这样的热情和积极性。
Xiao Yan had never seen such enthusiasm and enthusiasm before when she made her costume.
即便大家的工作积极性很高，指标完成的也很好，但肖燕的两个同事在上班后的两天还是被暂时劝退了。
Two of Xiao Yan's colleagues were suspended after two days on the job, even though their motivation was high and their performance was good.
不是工作有瑕疵，也不是老板不留情面，而是她们提交上去的复工材料不合格。
Not that the work was flawed, or that the boss was not merciless, but that the materials they submitted were not up to standard.
街道复工指导组通过她们提交上去的复工材料核查出，她们的户籍不在本区，而是下面县城的。
The Street Return to Work Steering Group verified, through the materials they had submitted, that their domicile was not in the district, but in the county below.
当天，就让其老板对她们进行劝退。
On the same day, ask their boss to persuade them to quit.
尽管她们的活动轨迹达标，产量也一直达标，也没有出现感冒发热的症状，家里更没有新冠肺炎患者。
Although they kept track of their movements, their output kept up to date, they showed no signs of catching a cold or getting feverish, and there were no new cases of pneumonia at home.
但规定就是规定，没有讨价还价的余地。
But regulation is the rule, and there is no room for bargaining.
特殊时期，能稳稳地端个饭碗都显得格外的不容易。
In special times, it is not easy to secure a job.
肖燕的户籍也是县城的。
Xiao Yan's household registration is also county.
但侥幸的是，她家在本区有房子，离厂房只有5、6个红绿灯的距离。
But luckily, her family has a house in the area, away from the factory building only 5, 6 traffic lights distance.
所以，符合复工条件。
Therefore, the conditions for resumption of work are met.
严格的复工硬性要求，让能继续留在厂里工作的同事们对自己拥有的工作机会倍感珍惜。
Strict return-to-work requirements make it easier for colleagues who can stay in the factory to appreciate the job opportunities they have.
大家勤勤恳恳的做着口罩，不敢有一丝懈怠。
Everybody makes the mask diligently, dare not have the slightest slack.
不仅是她们不敢懈怠，政府部门的公务人员也一样。
Not only are they afraid to slacken their efforts, but so are government officials.
厂里的口罩生产工作刚良好运转起来，2月11号，就有领导亲自带队奔赴他们厂里，进行视察和检查。
As soon as the operation of the mask was well under way, on February 11, a leader personally led the team to their factory for inspection and inspection.
肖燕在这个厂里上了3年的班，第一回见到有领导来他们厂检查工作。
Xiao Yan worked in this factory for 3 years. For the first time, he saw a leader come to inspect the factory.
她和自己的妹妹提到这事时，特地强调了两三遍：“还有领导来检查的呢！”在很多企业复工的日子还遥遥无期时，当地政府就急速为他们厂创造条件复工，大家都很清楚，不是他们厂有多重要，也不是他们老板面子有多大，而是这会口罩重要。
When she and her sister mentioned it two or three times, "There's a leader to check!" The local government rushed to create conditions for many businesses to get back to work, and it was clear not just how important their factory was or how big their boss's face was, but how important it was that they would be.
现在，能顺利地生产出口罩，已经不是经济效益的问题了，更像是在生产出一颗颗能稳定民心的定心丸。
Now, can smoothly produce the mask, is no longer the economic benefits of the problem, more like in the production of one can stabilize the hearts and minds of the people.
领导们看到了安心，千家万户的老百姓看到了也安心。
The leaders saw peace of mind, and so did thousands of ordinary people.
图|待包装的口罩5已经没人关心口罩的生产利润是多少，工厂的收益是多少。
Masks to be packaged. No one cares how much money a mask can make or how much it earns.
大家的目光都出奇一致地看向了一个数字：产量。
All eyes were strangely fixed on one number: output.
眼下药店、商场里都缺货，但紧缺只是暂时的，有人在想方设法创造条件来生产，有人在冒着生命危险出门去生产。
At present pharmacies, shopping malls are out of stock, but the shortage is only temporary, someone is trying to create conditions to produce, someone is risking their lives to go out to give birth.
肖燕的职业自豪感，就是从领导来厂视察后，在新闻帖子上看到自己厂的相关新闻后冉冉升起的。
Xiao Yan's professional pride, is from the leadership to the factory inspection, in the news post to see their factory after the relevant news slowly rise.
她的兄弟姐妹中，有研究生、本科生；有技术员、公务员，唯独她学历不高，一直从事着体力活。
Among her brothers and sisters, there are graduate and undergraduate students; there are technicians, civil servants, only her education is not high, has been engaged in manual work.
她很少和别人提起自己的工作，但现在，她很乐于告诉别人，“没错，我就是个做口罩的。
She rarely talks about her job to anyone else, but now she's happy to tell people, "Yes, I'm a mask-maker.
”作为一个廉价劳动密集型企业的员工，肖燕没有多高深的人生境界。
As an employee of a cheap, labor-intensive company, Xiao Yan does not have much depth in her life.
她和她的同事们此前的工作模式，一直是早上7点半到晚上9点，加班加点出卖劳动力，以便能换来一个月大几千的工资。
She and her colleagues had been working from 7: 30 a.m. to 9: 00 p.m., selling labor overtime in exchange for a few thousand a month's wages.
即便是现在做口罩，也是从早上7点半到晚上6点，还没有休息日。
Even now, there are no rest days from 7: 30 am to 6: 00 pm.
这么辛苦努力的工作就是为了多挣点钱，为了更好的养家糊口。
It's hard work to make more money to feed the family.
图|同事们合影留念只不过，当她忽然发现，自己厂里努力生产的东西，不仅能给她们带来物质回报，还能和整个国家以及人民生活息息相关起来时，多多少少都有点感慨。
My co-workers took a picture just when she suddenly found out that what she had worked so hard to produce in her factory not only brought them material rewards, but was also more or less impressed when she had a stake in the life of the country and its people.
衣服可以买，可以不买。
Clothes can be bought, not bought.
而此时此刻，口罩，14亿人民必须买！她们加班加点的多生产一片，老百姓就少一份因为口罩紧缺带来的恐慌；多生产一片，政府部门的抗疫情压力就会减轻一份；多生产一片，人与人之间就多了一个传递守护和关心的桥梁。
At this point, 1.4 billion people have to buy face masks! If they work overtime, they will produce one more piece and people will have less fear because of the shortage of face masks.
她已经来这个城市工作生活了3年了，从没有哪一天像现在这样，觉得这个城市里的所有人是紧密相连在一起的一个整体。
She had been working and living in the city for three years, and there had never been a day when all the people in the city felt as if they were one and the same.
“激动，”肖燕想了想，“有一点点。
"Excited," thought Xiao Yan, "a little bit.
”她这么想着，手上的动作更快了几分。
'she thought, with something more rapid in her hand.
*肖燕为化名-END-- 写 作 之 星 -//一辈子不长，努力做个有故事的人。
* Xiao Yan is an alias-END-writing star - / / For a short time, try to be a story-teller.
//作者|丁家幺女，青年作者。
/ / Author & # 124; Ding's youngest daughter, young author.
华中科技大学出版社·武汉战“疫”数博馆抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情作品资料正在征集中——【征集要求】＊来稿应为未公开发表和出版的内容，题材不限，VLOG、文字、图片等均可，务必客观真实，​反映疫情当下的民生现况及个人见闻；＊提供作品者都将获得华中科技大学出版社提供的“宅家悦读大礼包”；＊作品一旦录用，将提供完整规范的版权保护。
2007-9-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 14: 19 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-11-19 15: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-19 09: 19 2007-06-17 09: 19 2007-06-12 09: 19: 40 2007-06-12 09: 19: 40 2007-06-19 19: 19 2008-12-19 17: 19 2008-11-19 17: 19
【投稿方式】音视频：2279281426@qq.com文字：423322329@qq.com图片：454578039@qq.com或点击下方链接直接投稿http://2019ncov.xiushewang.com/请务必留下真实姓名及详细联系方式。
Audio and Video: 2279281426 @ qq.com Text: 423322329 @ qq.com Photo: 454578039 @ qq.com or click the link below to contribute directly http: / / 2019ncov.xiushewang.com / Please make sure to leave your real name and contact details.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
没错，我就是个做口罩的。
Yeah, I'm just a mask-maker.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "没错，我就是个做口罩的";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Yes, I did & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "这是肖燕工作十几年来，最严格以及最复杂的一次复工。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it was Xiao Yan's most rigorous and complicated return to work in over a decade.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
