后方的老师，我隔着屏幕在抗疫。
The teacher in the rear, I across the screen in the fight against the plague.
丁家幺女。
Ding's youngest daughter.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
“- 疫情 之 下 -她不会要求她的学生们将来必须成为医务工作者、科学家、警察、建筑工、老师，但她一定会要求自己的学生，好好学习，将来一定要用自己所学、所知、所拥有的知识和技能守护好那些曾经守护过他们的人。
"- In the midst of an epidemic - she will not ask her students to become medical workers, scientists, policemen, builders, teachers in the future, but she will demand of her students that they study hard, and that in the future she will protect those who have guarded them with the knowledge and skills they have learned, known and possessed.
”1张明亮已经24天没有见到她的43名学生了。
A student who had not seen her for 24 days was bright.
1月17号，看着自己的学生领完各种奖状、寒假作业，开开心心跟着自己的家长回家的那一刻，张明亮的心情是轻松、愉快、喜悦的。
On January 17, Zhang's bright mood was relaxed, pleasant and joyful as he watched his students receive certificates and homework during the winter vacation and happily follow their parents home.
这批刚从幼儿园走进小学课堂里的孩子，经过一学期的教育和培养，都已经成长和进步了许多。
After a semester of education and training, these children, who had just entered elementary school from kindergarten, have grown and improved a lot.
像43株幼苗一样，一个个争相破土发芽，长势喜人。
Like 43 seedlings, one after another rushed to break the ground germination, growth is good.
按照盐城市教育局和学校的原计划，她将会在2月10号再次见到孩子们，继续带领着他们一起成长。
She will see her children again Feb. 10 and continue to lead them through life, according to plans from the Salt City Education Bureau and the school.
意外来得很快。
The accident came quickly.
“武汉不明肺炎”的新闻传播的越来越广，已经沉浸在迎接新年的喜庆氛围里的张明亮也察觉出了形势的严峻。
"Wuhan unknown pneumonia" news spread more and more, has been immersed in greeting the New Year festive atmosphere Zhang bright also aware of the serious situation.
1月23号，学校官微正式推送了《预防新型冠状病毒告家长书，速度转给家长！》的文章。
January 23, the official micro-pushed the "prevention of the new coronavirus parents, speed transfer to parents!" article.
那一刻，包括张明亮在内的全体老师都有了一个新的任务：保护好别人家的孩子。
At that moment, all the teachers, including Zhang Bright, had a new task: to protect the children of others.
学校要求抗疫期间的各项工作必须做到“班班到位，生生到位”。
School requirements during the fight against the disease must be "class in place, life in place."
按照学校的统一部署和安排，张明亮开始负责一（1）班43名学生的健康管护。
In accordance with the unified deployment and arrangement of the school, Zhang Bright began to be responsible for a (1) class 43 students health care.
首先要让所有的家长意识要此次肺炎危机的严重性。
First, make all parents aware of the severity of the pneumonia crisis.
寒假时段，家长们都忙着带自己的孩子走亲访友、出门旅游。
During the winter break, parents are busy taking their children out to visit friends and family and travel.
要在最短的时间内，让他们把自己的孩子监管在家里才行。
Let them keep their children at home in the shortest possible time.
学校开始不定期推送各种告家长书以及新型冠状病毒的相关知识。
The school began to push the parents of various charges and the new coronavirus related knowledge.
张明亮第一时间建群，开始正常排查和登记，每天统计孩子的健康状况、出行状况，并且要求孩子居家隔离至少14天。
Zhang immediately set up a group, began regular check-up and registration, daily statistics of children's health, travel status, and require children to stay at home for at least 14 days.
这期间，还要在群里不定期的推送疫情相关科普知识。
During this period, but also in the group occasionally push the epidemic-related scientific knowledge.
原本沉浸在新春佳节喜庆氛围里的家长们，起初并没有意识到问题的严重性。
Originally immersed in the festive atmosphere of the New Year, parents at first did not realize the seriousness of the problem.
很多家长在私底下都有学校和老师是在“小题大做”的感慨。
Many parents have schools and teachers in private are "making a fuss" feeling.
但在张明亮的严谨、严格的管护要求下，他们也逐渐地意识到疫情的危害性和严峻性。
But under Zhang's strict strict and bright management requirements, they also gradually realized the danger and severity of the epidemic.
一个和你孩子不相干的外人，每天都要求作为父母的你，上报自己孩子的健康状况。
Every day, an outsider who has nothing to do with your child asks you, as a parent, to report on your child's health.
一天可以没有感想，两个星期就不可能没有想法了。
One day without feeling, two weeks without a thought.
在很多父母眼里，原本孩子感冒、发热、留个鼻涕是正常不过的小事。
In the eyes of many parents, it is normal for a child to have a cold, fever and a runny nose.
现在，他们也开始小心翼翼地留意起自己孩子的一举一动，生怕他们有一点不舒服。
Now they, too, were beginning to watch their children carefully for fear that they might feel a little uncomfortable.
家长们开始和张明亮一起齐心协力保护起孩子们。
Parents began to work together with Zhang Bright to protect the children.
因为，有全体家长们的积极配合，张明亮对43名孩子每天的状况一清二楚。
Because, with the active cooperation of all parents, Zhang Bright knows the situation of 43 children every day.
此前，为了不错漏任何信息，她的手机是24小时不关机、不静音的。
Before that, in order not to miss any information, her cell phone is 24 hours off, silent.
虽然，学校和老师的管护工作一丝不苟，但外面的疫情形势依然越来越严峻。
Although schools and teachers are meticulous in their care, the situation outside the epidemic is still more serious.
21月27号，盐城市教育局正式发出2020年春季学期延迟开学公告。
On July 27, the Salt City Education Bureau officially announced the postponement of the start of the spring term 2020.
原定的2月10号开学日期延期为2月17号。
The scheduled start of the school year on February 10 has been extended to February 17.
前仆后继的医务工作者、警察、工人、科研人员、志愿者都奔向了抗疫战争的前线，他们都在极尽所能的用自己的知识和技能为全国人民筑起一道守卫长城。
Successive medical workers, police, workers, researchers, volunteers have rushed to the front lines of the war against the epidemic, and are doing their best to use their knowledge and skills to build a wall for the people of the country.
张明亮所供职的，在后方的学校没有掉下队伍，也及时打出了“‘延假不停学，学习不延期’——后方我们在行动”的口号。
Zhang Bright, in the rear of the school did not fall off the team, also timely hit "Long holidays do not stop learning, study non-extension '- the rear we are in action.
作为一名老师，此时的张明亮又面临了一个新的挑战：启动网络学习。
As a teacher, Zhang bright at this time is faced with a new challenge: to start online learning.
准备电子教材、备课，发布上课时间表，督促家长们下载教材，了解上课平台以及提交作业渠道。
Prepare e-learning materials, prepare classes, issue class schedules, urge parents to download textbooks, understand the class platform and submit homework channels.
2月10号正式开课前，她必须将这些工作准备完毕。
She had to get her work ready before the official start of class on February 10th.
这也是张明亮从业以来，第一次挑战网络授课。
It is also Zhang's first challenge to online instruction since he started his career.
学校的组织和分工很明确。
The organization and division of labour in schools is clear.
要求老师们团队合作，开展集体备课并且在两周内形成成熟教案。
Teachers were asked to work together on group preparation and to develop a mature curriculum within two weeks.
学校不仅布置了教学任务，也明确规定了开学后会组织相关科室对老师们的教研工作进行检查。
The school not only set up the teaching task, but also clearly defined after the beginning of the school will organize the relevant departments to examine the teachers' teaching and research work.
也就是说，学校不仅要求老师们在两周内保证网络教学计划按期实行，还要确保教学质量。
In other words, not only do teachers have two weeks to keep their online programs on track, but they also ensure the quality of teaching.
因为延期开学，张明亮必须继续管护每个学生居家不出门，现在还要逐一统计每个学生家中成员的出行情况，填写相关调查表。
Because of the delay in starting school, Zhang must continue to supervise each student's stay at home. Now he has to count the trips of each student's family members and fill out the relevant questionnaires.
她在继续进行正常排查和登记工作的同时，又要开始和同事们一起备课。
As she continues with her normal inventory and registration, she will begin to prepare for class with her colleagues.
原本就没有闲暇时间的张明亮更加忙碌起来。
Zhang, who had no free time, became busier and busier.
她甚至有点紧张。
She was even a little nervous.
并不是因为工作任务的紧凑，而是因为她不确定网络授课的效果；也不确定自己能否胜任一个优秀的网络授课老师；更不确定的是，隔着屏幕，她有没有办法像以往那样及时观察和捕捉到每一个孩子的反应。
Not because of the intensity of her task, but because she is unsure of the effectiveness of online instruction, of her ability to be a good web-based instructor, and, more uncertainly, of how she will be able to observe and capture every child's reactions as quickly as she has in the past across the screen.
孩子们真的听得进去吗？他们会开小差吗？现在靠张明亮一个人是掌控不了了。
Can the children really listen in? Can they desert? A person can't control it now because of Zhang Bright.
还得有家长们的监督，孩子们的自律才行。
There has to be parental supervision and self-discipline on the part of children.
备课时，张明亮忽然有种想把自己掌握的所有知识一下子都教给学生们的冲动。
When preparing for class, Zhang Bright suddenly had the impulse to teach all the knowledge he had at once.
她很想让自己的学生在短时间内学到知识，快速进步。
She is eager for her students to learn knowledge and make rapid progress in a short time.
希冀小幼苗在一夜之间长成参天大树，是多么不切实际的幻想。
It is an unrealistic dream to hope that the young seedlings will grow into towering trees overnight.
深知教育规律的她，明白自己有了拔苗助长的心态。
Knowing the law of education, she knew that she had a tug-of-war mentality.
这在以往的教学过程中是从没出现过的情况。
This has never happened before in the teaching process.
可是，此时，此刻，她真真切切地希望自己的学生能够一步登天。
But now, at the moment, she really wished her students would step up to the sky.
2月6号，江苏省政府发布延迟开学通告，全省2月底前不得开学。
Feb. 6, Jiangsu Provincial Government issued a delayed opening notice, the province before the end of February can not open.
这个通告让原本就紧张的张明亮更加焦虑起来。
The announcement made Zhang, already nervous, even more anxious.
这就意味着，到3月初，她才有可能见到自己的学生们。
That means she won't be able to see her students until early March.
在这之前，他们还是必须依靠网络进行沟通、交流、授课、答疑解惑。
Until then, they must rely on the Internet for communication, communication, teaching, and problem-solving.
一方面，她既为孩子们可以继续居家隔离得到严格的管护而高兴；另一方面，她又为孩子们的学习成长忧心忡忡。
On the one hand, she was happy that the children could remain in the house under strict supervision. On the other hand, she was worried about their learning and development.
张明亮的学生才一年级，弥补、修正的机会还有很多，此时的她就已经有了教学计划和节奏被打乱的局促和担忧。
Zhang bright students are only the first year, make up, the opportunity to amend there are many, at this time she has a teaching plan and the rhythm of the disruption of the situation and worry.
那些正负责着小升初、初升高、高升大学关键学点的老师们的处境就更是可想而知了。
It is conceivable that the teachers who are in charge of the key points of the universities are in charge of the rise.
老师教学就像割韭菜，这一茬割完，可以继续割下一刀，可是绝大数的学生只有这一次的机会。
Teacher teaching is like cutting leeks, this crop can continue to cut off a knife, but most students only this time.
还是和个人命运息息相关的人生机会。
Or the opportunity of a life tied to one's own destiny.
3“离校不离教，停课不停学”。
School Leavers never leave school and never stop learning.
2月10号，网络授课如期进行。
On February 10, Internet classes went ahead as scheduled.
早读，课堂作业，课后作业该有的环节一个都不少。
Morning reading, classroom work, homework after school should have a number of links.
因为，前期准备工作充分，全班学生都在规定的时间内，准时进入了网络学习课堂。
Because, the preparatory work is sufficient, the entire class in the stipulated time, punctually entered the network study classroom.
甚至比以往在教室里进入上课状态还及时。
Even more timely than before in the classroom into the state of classes.
课程进行的很顺利，这让原本一直处于紧张状态的张明亮松了口气。
The course went smoothly, giving Zhang, who had been in a tense state, a relief.
课程结束后，张明亮在群里逐一核对检查，确保每个学生完成了当节的学习任务。
At the end of the course, Zhang Bright checked the group by group to make sure that each student completed the task.
现在，她还不能掌握每个学生的学习吸收的程度，但至少要保证每个学生完成了规定的学习任务。
At present, she cannot grasp the degree of absorption of each student's learning, but at least ensure that each student completes the prescribed study task.
至于如何能够隔着屏幕督促教育好每个学生，将是她在这之后工作和研究的重点。
How to educate each student across the screen will be the focus of her work and research after that.
网络授课的日子还将持续些时日。
The days of online instruction will continue for some time.
这些日子里，张明亮相信每个教育一线工作者都将怀着忐忑不安的心情度过。
These days, Zhang Bright believes that every front-line worker in education will spend with some trepidation.
该学的学了吗？该懂得懂了吗？该掌握的掌握了吗？和学校的教学质量区别大吗？他们不仅要担心自己的孩子，更多的忐忑是因为别人家的孩子。
Is it time to learn? Do you understand? Have you mastered it? Is it any different from the quality of teaching at school? They worry not only about their children, but also about other people's children.
而作为老师的她必须时刻调整自己，以确保自己一直处于良好的状态，带领着家长们、孩子们一起接受各种新的、未知的挑战。
As a teacher, she has to constantly adjust to ensure that she has been in good shape, leading parents, children together to accept new and unknown challenges.
张明亮的抗疫工作还在继续。
Zhang's bright fight against the disease continues.
短短的二十几天，疫情就让她和43个家庭紧密联系在一起，也让她看到了很多往常看不到的令人啼笑皆非又感慨良多的点点滴滴。
In just twenty days, the outbreak has brought her into contact with 43 families, and she has seen many ironies and emotions she has never seen before.
一个平常很调皮，上课不安分，下个铃一响就往外跑的小男孩，在自己和家长不停地灌输外面病毒的危害性以及居家隔离必要性后，在他的妈妈正常开窗通风期间，就一个激灵地跳到离窗户最远的角落里，嘴里还嚷嚷：“妈妈，你开啥窗户，病毒都给你放进来了。
A naughty boy, restless in class, running outside the next bell, jumped to the farthest corner of the window during his mother's normal window ventilation, after indoctrinating himself and his parents about the dangers of the outside virus and the need for home isolation.
”一个同行在群里通知家长们看好自己的孩子时，不顾为人师表的形象，用出了“恐吓”和“威胁”的口气：“同时强调这十四天期间如果督察组发现有小孩在外面，要追究当事人和监督人的法律责任，请看好孩子。
One colleague told parents in the group to look after their children, ignoring the image of the teacher, using a tone of "intimidation" and "threats": "It was also stressed that if the inspectors found a child outside during the 14-day period, they should investigate the legal responsibility of the person concerned and the supervisor.
”很多原本一到放假就处于放飞状态的孩子，自从疫情发生后，就自觉地在家看书、学习起来。
"Many of the children, who were released on holiday, have been studying and studying at home since the outbreak.
据说比在学校时都认真。
It is said to be more serious than at school.
这让家长和老师多多少少有些欣慰。
This gave parents and teachers some relief.
还有一个喜欢看各种动漫卡通的小姑娘，以往崇拜的都是各种魔法卡通人物形象。
There is also a little girl who likes to watch cartoons, used to worship a variety of magic cartoon characters.
在家期间，忽然也开始念叨起“钟南山”这三个字。
At home, suddenly began to read "Zhong Nan Shan" these three words.
这个爷爷不会变魔法，只是一个医生，她也并不清楚这个人具体是做什么的，但铺天盖地的新闻和信息，让她懂得了将“英雄”这两个字和这个人联系在了一起。
The grandfather did not change magic, just a doctor, she does not know exactly what this person does, but the overwhelming news and information, let her understand that the word "hero" and this person together.
最让人动容的是，听说一个人家的孩子，在疫情初期，所有人都认为中老年人更容易感染，年轻人和小孩不容易感染时，主动不让自己奶奶出门买菜，自告奋勇代替奶奶出门。
It is most moving to hear that the children of a family, in the early stage of the epidemic, all the people believe that the elderly are more vulnerable to infection, young people and children do not easily infected, the initiative not to let their grandmother out to buy vegetables, volunteered to go out instead of Grandma.
在一家三口全副武装去超市买菜的路上，这个孩子紧紧地挽着自己爸爸和妈妈的胳膊说了句：“爸爸，妈妈我爱您。
On the way to the supermarket with three armed men, the boy took his father and mother by the arm and said, Dad, I love you.
”她其实是担心自己染病，也担心自己父母染病的。
"She was really worried about her illness, and about her parents.
她的父母为之感动了许久。
Her parents were moved for a long time.
隔着屏幕，听说此事的张明亮也是如此。
Across the screen, I heard that this bright Zhang is the same.
疫情面前，没有一个侥幸和旁观的人。
In the face of the epidemic, there was not a single fortunate observer.
每个人的生活都受到了不同程度的威胁和影响。
Everyone's life is threatened and affected to varying degrees.
学生这个群体在第一时间就得到了格外的关注和守护。
This group of students in the first time received special attention and protection.
所有人都在想方设法的将疫情对学生这个群体的影响降到最低，不遗余力在第一时间为他们创造力所能及的健康、安全、可靠的生活、学习、成长环境和氛围。
Everyone is trying to minimize the impact of the epidemic on the students as a group, spare no effort to create a healthy, safe, reliable life, learning, growing environment and atmosphere for them as soon as possible.
要保护他们的安全和健康，还要保证他们的学习和成长。
Their safety and health must be protected and their learning and development ensured.
老师定点负责管护学生，延迟开学时间，改变教学模式，第一时间组织备课，开展研讨，教育系统安排名师录制免费在线课程，有线、移动公司提供技术支持。
Teachers are assigned to supervise students, delay the start of school hours, change the teaching model, organize classes first, conduct seminars, arrange free online courses for teachers in the education system, and provide technical support from wired and mobile companies.
这些在后方抗疫的人们，不遗余力地用自己的力量守护着千家万户的孩子。
These people in the rear of the epidemic, spare no effort with their own strength to protect thousands of families of children.
因为，孩子代表着一个家庭、一个民族以及一个国家的希望。
For children represent the hope of a family, a nation, and a nation.
有希望，才会生生不息。
Hope makes all the difference.
绿水长流，千山依旧。
Green waters flow, mountains still flow.
张明亮的学生们还很小，他们很多人只知道外面有病毒不能出门，必须在家学习。
Zhang's bright students are very young. Many of them only know that there is a virus outside and they have to study at home.
他们绝大多数人还不能够明白外面的疫情有多严重，疫区的生活有多紧张、危险和艰苦，整个国家和社会因为疫情受到了多大的重创。
Most of them are still unable to understand how serious the outbreak is outside, how stressful, dangerous and difficult life is in the affected areas, and how much the whole country and society have been hard hit by the outbreak.
甚至，也许一些孩子还在为不能出门和同学玩耍而感到沮丧和抱怨。
Some children may even be frustrated and complaining about not being able to go out and play with their classmates.
这时，张明亮就会庆幸自己是一位老师，一位教育工作者。
At this time, Zhang bright will be glad that he is a teacher, an educator.
张明亮已经想好了，等到她和孩子们再次面对面的站到同一个教室里时，她要告诉她的孩子们，是医务工作者、科学家、警察、建筑工、老师、社区工作人员等，用自己的知识和技能一起携手战胜了病毒，才让他们可以重新肆无忌惮地走出门，走到太阳底下，走进教室里高高兴兴地学习和成长。
Zhang Bright had thought, when she and the children again face to face in the same classroom, she told her children, medical workers, scientists, police, builders, teachers, community workers, etc. together with their knowledge and skills to overcome the virus, so that they can go out into the sun, into the classroom happily study and grow.
她不会要求她的学生们将来必须成为医务工作者、科学家、警察、建筑工、老师，但她一定会要求自己的学生，好好学习，将来一定要用自己所学、所知、所拥有的知识和技能守护好那些曾经守护过他们的人。
She will not ask her students to become medical workers, scientists, policemen, builders, teachers in the future, but she will demand of her students that they study hard and that in the future she will protect those who have guarded them with the knowledge and skills they have learned, known and possessed.
张明亮期待这样的时刻早日来临。
Zhang is looking forward to such an early moment.
☆张明亮老师系化名-END-- 写 作 之 星 -//一辈子不长，努力做个有故事的人。
Zhang Bright Teacher's Fake Name - END - Star of Life - / / For a short time, try to be a story-teller.
//作者|丁家幺女，青年作者。
/ / Author & # 124; Ding's youngest daughter, young author.
题图|《小欢喜》剧照“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
For details, please call our Training Program and join our Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing!!! > > Business Collaboration / Consultation Message Backstage Message or E-mail: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform of China Central University of Science and Technology Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
后方的老师，我隔着屏幕在抗疫。
The teacher in the rear, I across the screen in the fight against the plague.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "后方的老师，我隔着屏幕在抗疫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; rear teacher, I sat across the screen at AT & quot;;
var msg_desc = "网络授课，这是一个新挑战。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Internet instruction, a new challenge.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
