出租车司机：非常时期感冒一场，我心有余悸。
Taxi driver: I had a bad cold and I had palpitations.
琉火。
Ryukyu fire.
我们是有故事的人                      。
We are people with stories.
我们是有故事的人。
We are people with stories.
每一行都有认真的人，再平凡的人也有不平凡的故事。
There are serious people in every line, and even ordinary people have extraordinary stories.
华中科技大学出版社官方非虚构故事平台，有故事的人终将在这里相遇。
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Press official non-fiction platform, the story will eventually meet here.
。
.
- 疫 情 之 下-过年那天晚上，一家人气氛十分怪异，一双儿女居然对我有点回避。
On New Year's Eve, the atmosphere of the family was so strange that a pair of children avoided me.
往年都是一左一右挂在我身上，找我要红包，今年都刻意保持着距离。
In previous years are left and right hanging in my body, looking for me to red envelopes, this year deliberately kept a distance.
”12020年1月10，春运正式开始拉开帷幕，由于大规模的人口迁徙，这成为了我们这拨本地的士司机赚钱过年的好时机。
On January 10, 2020, the Spring Festival courier officially opened, making it a good time for our local taxi drivers to make money for the Lunar New Year because of mass migration.
托郴州高铁站的福，因为县城离高铁站近，开车只需要两个小时，多数家乡人都选择乘坐高铁回家，南来北往的高铁极多，几乎每小时都有客人下高铁，但是客运站一天只有两趟回县城的班车。
With only two hours' drive away from the high-speed railway station in Chenzhou, most villagers take the high-speed train home. There are too many high-speed trains running from south to north.
所以，乘坐的士成了他们回家最好的选择。
So taking a taxi is the best way to get home.
每年这个时候，我们车队的男人个个都像打了鸡血一般，凌晨六点的客要去高铁站我们也送，十二点要回家的客我们也接，当然价格要比平时贵一倍。
Every year at this time of the year, the men in our motorcade are like chicken blood. We take our passengers to the high-speed rail station at 6 a. m. and we pick up those who want to go home at 12: 00, at twice the usual price.
平时一位客人六十，春运期间是一百，过年那两天是一百五。
Usually a guest is sixty, the Spring Festival is a hundred, the New Year's two days is a hundred and fifty.
一天跑三趟，回到家已是凌晨。
Three times a day, it was early morning when we got home.
说来也巧，春运的客人才接了两三天，我居然就感冒了。
It so happened that the Spring Festival couriers had only taken two or three days, and I caught a cold.
记得上次感冒还是08年雪灾的时候，那时候我老婆生二胎，我在又累又冷的状态下得了感冒。
I remember the last cold or 2008 snowstorm, when my wife gave birth to two children, I was tired and cold in the state of catching a cold.
作为一个体质非常好的男人，我没把感冒当回事，除了不抽烟，我该干嘛就干嘛，晚上收工晚，还会跟几个老师傅去桥下吃完烧烤再回家。
As a very good man, I did not take the cold seriously, except do not smoke, I do what I do, evening, and a few old teachers to eat barbecue under the bridge before going home.
我一家四口，女儿上六年级，儿子刚上高中，老婆全职照顾孩子，除了过年的花销，我还得趁此机会攒下儿子春季的一万多块钱学费，要知道平时生活中的开销也不小，全靠我这一双手一辆车。
In addition to spending the New Year, I have to take advantage of this opportunity to save my son's spring tuition, which is also quite expensive, because I own a two-handed car.
1月14日，大概是我不舒服的第二天，当天提前两个小时回家，不知是年纪大了抵抗力下降了还怎么回事，我的喉咙很干，在车上一直喝的矿泉水太冰，让我极为不舒服，连鼻子出气都痛。
On January 14th, probably the second day of my discomfort, I returned home two hours earlier that day. I did not know what was the matter with my weakened resistance. My throat was very dry, and the mineral water I had been drinking in the car was so cold that it made me very uncomfortable and my nose ached.
我叫老婆倒了满满一杯热茶，老婆还说大半夜的喝茶，是不是不想睡觉了，难道还要出去宵夜？我摇头，说不舒服，神仙叫我也不会出去了，什么喝几杯酒就好了那是鬼话，现在只想洗个热水澡就睡觉。
I told my wife to pour out a cup of hot tea, and she said she didn't want to go to bed and drink tea in the middle of the night? I shook my head and said I wasn't feeling well.
老婆说：要不吃点感冒药吧。
His wife said, Do not eat some cold medicine.
我拒绝了。
I refused.
想着这么多年我都没吃过药，最多一觉之后就舒服了。
After all these years of thinking I haven't taken any medicine, I feel better after a nap at most.
第二天早上，车队的队长发来语音，说今天要安排两辆车去高铁站接客，要去早一点，放空去也无所谓。
The next morning, the team leader sent a voice, said that today to arrange two cars to pick up passengers at the high-speed rail station, to go earlier, it does not matter to empty.
我已经头重得抬不起来了，老婆给我煮了碗鸡汤面，还拿了两包双黄连给我，叫我半小时后泡水喝下去。
My wife made me a bowl of chicken soup noodle, and gave me two bags of double porridge. She told me to soak it in half an hour.
这次我没有拒绝。
I did not refuse this time.
女儿在刷手机，大概是看到了什么新闻，表现得一惊一乍的，我问她看到什么消息了。
My daughter was brushing her mobile phone and was surprised to see something new. I asked her what she had seen.
她说：武汉的新型肺炎你没听说吗？都死掉了一个人了，还说现在已经有几十人感染了，说不定会越传越多呢。
She said: Wuhan of the new pneumonia you have not heard of? A person died, and said that now dozens of people have infected, perhaps more will spread.
老婆说她又在那胡说八道。
My wife said she was talking nonsense again.
2我听完后心里却咯噔一下，这感觉有点似曾相识，像极了十七年前的非典，那时候我刚刚参加工作，记得那时候从外地回家的人全部都抓起来关到山上去隔离了，过了好多天确认无事才放回来。
I thought it was a little bit familiar, like SARS 17 years ago, when I started working, and remember that when people from other places came home and went up in isolation there, days passed before they were released.
“宝宝，这个肺炎都有些什么症状呀？”我问女儿。
"Darling, what symptom does this pneumonia have?" I asked my daughter.
“爸爸，肺炎会发烧，有感冒的症状，而且会传染。
"Dad, pneumonia has a fever, symptoms of a cold and infection.
”听完女儿的话，我立刻把两包药都喝了下去，出了一身汗，自我感觉舒服点了，又立刻穿得严严实实的出车了。
"After listening to my daughter, I immediately drank both bags of medicine, perspiring a little, feeling better about myself, and dressed up to go out of the car at once.
那一天，感冒没有加重，但是也一直不太舒服，回家后我又自觉喝了两包药，早早就睡了。
On that day, the cold did not get worse, but also has been uncomfortable, I came home after I consciously drank two packets of medicine, early sleep.
这些天开始降温，还下小雨，客人越来越多，我们车队十辆车都忙不过来。
These days began to cool down, but also a light rain, more and more guests, our team of 10 vehicles are busy.
这个关键时刻，我没有因为感冒这种小事而打算提前休息，甚至也没有当一回事，只是心里也开始有丝丝担忧。
At this critical moment, I did not plan to take early rest because of such a small cold, or even when the matter was not taken seriously, just began to worry about the heart.
1月19日是南方小年夜，这天回家的人特别多，从早上开始，我发现回家的客人都戴上了口罩，我想可能是大城市回家的人才喜欢这时髦玩意吧，我们小县城的人不喜欢这些。
From the morning, I found my guests wearing masks. I thought it might be the people back home in the big city who like the fashionable gadgets. People in our small county don't like them.
当天下午，我接到了同时回家的三位女客人，一位是在校大学生，说在中医院下车，两位是放假回家过年的成年人，她们三个在车上开始聊天。
On the afternoon of the same day, I received three female guests who had come home at the same time. One was a college student who had got off at the Chinese Hospital.
聊天的内容就是这次武汉的疫情，说得十分生动，我听得一愣一愣的。
The content of the chat is this Wuhan epidemic, said very vivid, I heard a Leng Leng.
作为一名老司机，阅历和经历都是十分丰富的，什么样的客人都见过，他们在聊疫情时十分严肃，我因为长期没有关注新闻，并不知道已经这么严重，能插上话的还是十七年前的非典事件。
As an old driver, experience and experience are very rich, any kind of guests have seen, they talk about the epidemic very serious, I did not know because the long-term attention to the news, I did not know that it was the SARS incident 17 years ago that could be inserted.
其中一位女客问我：“大哥，武汉经过郴州的高铁和火车应该不少吧。
One of the women asked me, "Brother, Wuhan should have a lot of high-speed trains in Chenzhou.
”“加上火车和汽车，一天少说七十趟。
'And seventy times a day, plus trains and buses.
”说完后我自己被这数量吓到了。
"And with that I was frightened by the quantity.
“那你肯定也接了不少从武汉回家的客人吧？”她继续问。
"Then you must have picked up a lot of visitors from Wuhan?" she continued.
“这个我不敢说，我不会问每个客人从哪里回来的。
"I dare not say that. I won't ask each guest where he came from.
”“你得戴口罩！小心被传染！”小姑娘大声说。
"You must wear a mask! Be careful to catch the infection!" cried the little girl.
“光戴口罩都不行呢，你这是高危行业了，太危险了。
"You can't even wear a mask. You're in a high-risk business. It's too dangerous.
”另一位客人说。
'said the other.
我又吓了一跳。
I started again.
她们说的不无道理，我现在正处于感冒之中，最奇葩的是好几天了还没好，我是不是已经中招了还不一定，我紧张得不再说话。
They say, I am now in a cold, the most wonderful work is a few days has not recovered, I have not admitted not necessarily, I am too nervous to talk.
“师傅，刚听你说话，感觉你的鼻音很重呀。
"" Master, I just heard you talking. You have such a heavy nose.
”小姑娘又说。
"said the little girl.
“是啊，好奇怪，我都感冒十天了也不见好，也不加重，你们说的这么严重真是吓到我了，我都担心我是不是被从武汉回来的人给传染了。
"" Yes, it's strange that I've had a cold for ten days and it's not getting better or worse. I was so scared by what you said that I feared I might have been infected by people returning from Wuhan.
”我只好半开玩笑地说。
'I said, half-jokingly.
“普通的感冒不用担心，但你还是去医院检查确诊一下吧，这个肺炎有潜伏期，万一得了传染的人可不少呢。
"You don't have to worry about a common cold, but you'd better go to the hospital and have a diagnosis. There's a latent period of pneumonia.
”一位女客说。
'said one of the ladies.
送完她们，我感觉我的症状加重了，连呼吸都困难了。
After seeing them off, I felt that my symptoms were getting worse and I was having trouble breathing.
3当天夜里，老婆给我留的最喜欢吃的梅菜扣肉都没有吸引我，我直接洗澡换衣服睡了，特意叫老婆去女儿房间睡，特别郑重地跟她说：“我听说肺炎严重了，搞不好有人会带到我们县城来，我现在也感觉自己感冒加重了。
That night, my wife left me the most favorite plum button meat did not attract me, I took a direct bath to change clothes to sleep, specially asked his wife to her daughter's room to sleep, particularly solemn said to her: "I heard pneumonia, maybe someone will bring to our county, I now feel their cold aggravated.
”老婆被我吓到了。
"My wife was scared by me.
第二天，她特意陪着我去了医院，专门找了位老熟人给我看病。
The next day, she specially accompanied me to the hospital, specially found an old acquaintance to see me.
他快五十了，经验丰富，给我看完病，说看情况应该是感冒，但是必须得在家好好休息了，不要再出去跑客了，钱是永远也赚不完的。
He was nearly fifty years old and experienced. He showed me the sickness and said that it should be a cold, but he had to rest at home and not go out running.
我问他：休息多久呢？他说：最好一直休息到春节结束之后再出来。
I asked him: How long is the rest? He said, It's best to rest until after the Spring Festival.
我老婆问他为什么要休息这么久，感冒不过是三两天的事。
My wife asked him why he should take such a long rest. A cold is only a matter of three or two days.
他慢悠悠地说：“听说潜伏期就有十四天，你虽然目前表现是感冒，很难保证你这么多天接的客人没有问题啊，万一被传染了，你再出来，岂不是祸害人了。
He said slowly, "I hear that the incubation period is fourteen days. Although you are suffering from a cold, it is hard to guarantee that your guests will be all right for so many days.
你们一家人都要少出门，出门记得戴口罩。
All of you should go out less often and remember to wear masks when you go out.
”我感觉到害怕，立刻去药店一次性买了五包口罩，回家给他们三个人一人分一包，在家里也要求他们戴上，要求老婆正式跟我分床睡，我还恶补了这十几天所有的新闻，看完后后背都是一身汗。
Feeling scared, I immediately went to the drugstore and bought five bags of masks at once, went home and gave them three a bag each, and asked them to wear them at home and ask my wife to sleep separately from me.
“今年可能会少赚点钱了，我打算休息一段时间。
"Maybe I'll make less money this year. I'm going to take a break.
”我对老婆说。
'I said to my wife.
我老婆是农村人，把钱看得比较重，开口就是医生最喜欢骗人了，这样的事情肯定不会传到我们小地方来的，我们这天高皇帝远，太上老君都不管。
My wife is a country man, the money is more serious, the mouth is the doctor like to deceive people, such things will certainly not spread to our small places, our emperor far away, the old gentleman do not care.
说白了，她是真不想我这大劳力就在家里休息，这段时间一天可以挣个千巴块呢，我要真十天半个月不出门，那损失真不小。
To tell you the truth, she really doesn't want my laborer to stay at home and earn a thousand bucks a day for the time being.
但我不能妇人之见，万一我病了，我不能出去传染人，那是千古罪人。
But I can't be a womanly man. If I'm sick, I can't go out and infect people. It's an ancient sinner.
车队的人知道我这节骨眼上突然请假了，一个个在群里调侃我，是不是钱赚够了，休养生息准备生三胎。
The people in the motorcade knew that I had taken a sudden leave of absence at this juncture and were making fun of me one by one in the group.
我把最新疫情链接发到群里，我说我感冒加重了，我怀疑自己有可能被传染了，为了安全起见，还是自我隔离比较好。
I posted the latest link to the group. I said I had a bad cold. I suspected that I might be infected. It's better to isolate myself for the sake of safety.
1月24日那天，一个老客人给我发微信，说她会在当晚十一点下高铁，希望我去接她。
On January 24th, an old guest sent me a message saying that she would be on the high-speed train at eleven o'clock that evening and that I would pick her up.
换作往常，我会拍着胸脯对她说：“放心，我保证可以接到你。
In other words, I would beat my chest and say to her, "You can count on me to receive you.
”但是那天，我犹豫了半天，最后对她说：“我感冒了，安全起见，不能去接你了。
But that day I hesitated for a long time before finally saying to her, "I have a cold.
”后来为了客人的安全，我还是介绍了其他的司机过去接她。
"Later, for the guests' safety, I introduced the other drivers to pick her up.
当天晚上，我开始发烧，保险起见，还是去了县人民医院的发热门诊。
That night, I began to have a fever, to be on the safe side, or went to the county people's hospital fever clinic.
医生知道我已经感冒好多天未好，现在还在发烧，他十分紧张，想为我做检查，因为条件不允许，又没有试纸。
The doctor knew that I had had a cold for many days and was still feverish. He was very nervous and wanted to have my examination done because conditions did not permit it and there was no test paper.
医生出于谨慎，给我做了胸部CT，结果显示我的双肺没有问题。
The doctor gave me a chest CT out of caution and it turned out that my lungs were all right.
最后还是开了退烧药和感冒消炎之类的药叫我先回家。
Finally, I was prescribed antipyretics and cold anti-inflammatory drugs to let me go home first.
过年那天晚上，一家人气氛十分怪异，一双儿女居然对我有点回避。
On New Year's Eve, the atmosphere of the family is very strange, a pair of children even a little shy of me.
往年都是一左一右挂在我身上，找我要红包，今年都刻意保持着距离。
In previous years are left and right hanging in my body, looking for me to red envelopes, this year deliberately kept a distance.
我也担心他们的健康，口罩从不离嘴，连吃饭时候也用上了专用的碗，还在每个菜碗上放上公筷。
I also worry about their health. They never leave their mouths. Even when eating, they use a special bowl and put chopsticks on each dish.
自从禁止燃放烟花爆竹，小县城过年也少了许多乐趣，倒是可以安静地看春晚了，早早吃完了年夜饭，又吃了一次药，我感觉到舒服多了。
Since the firecracker ban, small county town New Year less fun, but can be quiet to watch the Spring Festival Evening, early ate the New Year's dinner, and took a medicine, I feel much more comfortable.
老婆见我状态不错，问我要不要接两个老人过来搓麻将，往年都是接上来一起吃团年饭的，今年我情况特殊，叫他们俩老去弟弟家吃年夜饭了。
When my wife saw that I was in good shape, she asked me if I should pick up two old men to rub the seeds together for the Chinese New Year.
我犹豫了一下，还是摆摆手。
I hesitated for a moment and waved again.
这个年过得十分寡淡和安静，孩子们都回房间玩手机了，老婆就一直在客厅里陪着我，有一句没一句地评论着春晚的节目，我却明显感觉到似乎体内的病毒在渐渐减少，看来是第一次去医院开的药不对症，这次是吃对药了。
It was a very dull and quiet year, the children went back to the room to play mobile phones, my wife has been with me in the living room, a sentence of commentary on the Chunwan program, I clearly feel as if the virus is gradually decreasing, seems to be the first time to the hospital prescribed medicine, this time on the right medicine.
4第二天是大年初一，我已经完全好了。
The next day is New Year's Day. I am perfectly well.
除了肩膀上还有些酸痛，整个人真是轻松得可以跳上一米的锅台，我也终于体会到什么叫无病一身轻了。
In addition to some sore shoulders, the whole person is really easy enough to jump on a meter pot, I finally realized what is called disease-free light.
小年夜那天晚上接的三个客人，我都一一加过微信，这是我这么多年来做生意的习惯，做的士司机，需要好的口碑，需要积累回头客，所以当我感冒彻底好的那一刻，我激动地给她们发信息报平安，也让她们心安。
The three guests I received on the night of New Year's Eve, I have added letters to them. This is my habit of doing business for so many years. As a taxi driver, I need a good word of mouth and need to accumulate repeat customers.
她们都安慰我，说没事就好，以后出车要多注意安全。
They all comforted me, said nothing is good, after the trip to pay more attention to safety.
1 月26日大年初二，全国疫情公布，我看到累计死亡病例高达56例，本市已经有三名从武汉回乡的居民被确诊，都已经安排到市医院住院治疗。
On the second day of January 26, when the national epidemic was announced, I saw a total of 56 deaths, and three residents of the city who had returned from Wuhan were diagnosed and hospitalized in the municipal hospital.
往年大年初二回娘家，今年因特殊情况，整个县城都呼吁居民不要请客，也不要拜年，更不要参加同学聚会。
This year, due to special circumstances, the whole county appealed to residents not to invite, do not pay a New Year's visit, not to participate in student gatherings.
我也难得陪着老婆在家里看电视，帮忙做几个菜。
I also rarely accompany his wife at home watching TV, help make a few dishes.
在家庭群和同学群里发了几个红包，大家都在微信上互相拜年，聊天，讨论疫情。
In the family group and schoolmate group distributed several red packets, everybody pays a New Year call on each other on the micro-letter, chat, discuss epidemic situation.
1月31日，本县第一例新型冠状病毒肺炎被确诊了，立即转入市中心医院治疗，连同他的家人和接触过他的朋友全部自行在家隔离。
On January 31, the county's first case of coronavirus pneumonia was diagnosed and immediately transferred to a central hospital for treatment, along with his family and friends who had come into contact with him.
还有多少被他传染的人，目前还没有公布，至少我和家人已经是安全了。
How many others he has infected have not yet been announced, at least my family and I are safe.
老婆第一次夸我，说我有先见之明，身体健康抵万金。
My wife praised me for the first time, saying that I have foresight, good health is worth ten thousand dollars.
特殊时期，大家还是少出门吧。
In special times, we'd better go out less.
（本文系采访口述）-END-图文|琉火，青年作者。
(Interviewed Oral) - END-picture & # 144; & # 45; Ryukyu, young author.
“我故”故事练习生培养计划，详情请戳：培养计划|加入“故事创造营”，你就是未来写作之星！About us主编：鹿｜本期编辑：鹿Contact us投稿/商务合作/咨询微信后台留言or 邮箱：wmsygsdr@163.com我们是有故事的人｜华中科技大学出版社官方故事平台。
I Am Here Story Training Program, for details: Join the Story Creation Camp, where you are the star of future writing! Deer Contacts / Business Collaboration / Consultation Letter Backstage Message or Mailbox: wmsygsdr @ 163.com We are storytellers, official story platform at HUST Press.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
出租车司机：非常时期感冒一场，我心有余悸。
Taxi driver: I had a bad cold and I had palpitations.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "我们是有故事的人";。
Var nickname = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
var msg_title = "出租车司机：非常时期感冒一场，我心有余悸";。
var msg _ title = & quot; taxi driver: I had a cold at the height of my life.
var msg_desc = "回想一下，真是后背发凉。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Looking back, it was a chill on the back.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="我们是有故事的人";。
Var title = & quot; We are someone with a story & quot;;
