号外｜你在城内战斗，我在城外支援。
Outside, you are fighting in the city, and I am on the outside.
扣肉。
Button, buckle.
娱志TheReview                      。
Recreation The Review.
娱志TheReview。
Recreation The Review.
用我们的方式爱娱乐。
We love entertainment in our way.
本文由娱志The Review原创出品华东师范大学传播学院学生娱评号转载需申请授权作者 | 扣肉编辑 | 拾贰导语在今年的救助行动中，当地政府的某些做法，反向激活了民间救助和志愿行动的效力。
In this year's rescue operation, some local government practices have reversed the effectiveness of private rescue and voluntary action. The review's original product, The East China Normal University School of Communication, requires an application for authorisation to reprint.
这次疫情，至少在武汉封城的前后几天内，志愿者凭借自己的经验和能力，几乎走上了舞台中央。
This outbreak, at least in Wuhan before and after the closure of the city, volunteers relying on their experience and ability, almost stepped into the center of the stage.
娱志今日推出文章《你在城内战斗，我在城外支援》，描述了这些志愿救助活动的“邻里逻辑”和自发性，在此次防控疫情的过程里，是如何对科层机构的无效性，或不作为，进行了有效的“补充“，或“纠偏”。
Recreation Today's article, "You Fight in the City, I Support Outside the City," describes the "neighbourhood logic" and spontaneity of these volunteer relief activities. In the course of the epidemic prevention and control, how the ineffectiveness or inaction of the hierarchy was effectively "supplemented" or "corrected."
这几天，娱志编辑部很辛苦。
These days, the editorial department is very hard.
这帮年轻人充分显示了对重大公共事件的不张扬、理性却不失感性的态度，与行动力。
These young people have amply demonstrated a quiet, rational and perceptual attitude towards major public events, and their ability to act.
我们联系了武汉城内的同学，与武汉医护人员的家属保持沟通后，对城外、后方无偿奉献、支援和救助的个体与组织，进行简短而持续的采访。
We contacted the students in Wuhan, and maintained communication with the families of Wuhan medical staff, on the outside of the city, behind the pro bono dedication, support and rescue of individuals and organizations, a short and continuous interview.
今日娱志推出的这则，严格来说，不算新闻报道，因为缺少更多的细节，带着作者的某些观点，它更像一则采访手札。
Today's entertainment, strictly speaking, does not count as news reports, because the lack of more details, with some of the author's point of view, it is more like an interviewer.
娱志的成员不是专业的记者，无法深入一线，但是她们前期线上尽可能地与不同的救助组织或个体进行沟通，希望从救助者的视角，来看待这场疫情防控。
Recreation members are not professional journalists, can not go deep into the line, but they as early as possible with different relief organizations or individuals to communicate, hoping to see the perspective of the rescue, the prevention and control of the epidemic.
1月23日，N大的大学生白依通过朋友圈与同样关注武汉疫情的好友共同建立了微信群，大家在群内分享自己所了解到的疫情资讯。
On January 23, through a circle of friends and friends who are also concerned about the outbreak in Wuhan, N. University student Baiyi set up a micro-group to share information about the epidemic.
但白依的行动并没有止步于“聊聊”而已。
But Baie's actions did not stop at "talking."
在了解到武汉当地医院物资短缺的事实后，她立刻在淘宝购买了护目镜捐赠给武汉，并在朋友圈不断更新着店铺和快递的消息，很多好友因此参与进来。
After learning about the shortage of materials in Wuhan local hospital, she immediately Taobao bought goggles donated to Wuhan, and friends constantly updated shop and express news, many friends involved.
朋友圈内的高关注度与高互动让白依觉得可以发动更多人的力量，形成汇总，减轻武汉当地接收物资的工作量。
The high degree of attention and interaction within the circle of friends makes Baiyi feel able to mobilize more power, form a summary, reduce the workload of local materials received in Wuhan.
于是，她和朋友小陈决定共同召集有意向捐赠钱物的好心人，多买物资帮助武汉。
So, she and her friend Xiao Chen decided to co-convene a good intention to donate money and goods, more supplies to help Wuhan.
小陈将这个消息转给了当地一家高中生的模拟联合国大会组织，借助了模联组织活动的经验，很快让捐赠活动以项目为单位运行了起来。
Chen passed the news on to a local high school mock-up of the United Nations General Assembly, building on the experience of modeling activities and quickly making donations run on a project basis.
白依和小陈同学，就这样以非慈善人士的身份，依托一个非慈善机构，临时组织起了一个筹款团体。
In this way, Bei and Xiao Chen, as non-charitable people, rely on a non-charitable organization, temporarily organized a fund-raising group.
截止1月25日下午两点左右，他们已经筹到了大约六万元人民币，捐赠给13家医院的物资五万五千元左右。
By about 2 p.m. January 25, they had raised about 60,000 yuan and donated about 55,000 yuan to 13 hospitals.
还有很多普通人，做着跟白依和小陈一样的事情。
There are a lot of ordinary people doing the same thing as Baie and Xiao Chen.
1月24日，大学生Eve加入了一个志愿者微信群，尽管她刚刚进群，但她不是志愿工作的新人。
On January 24, college student Eve joined a volunteer microcosm group and, although she was new to the group, she wasn't a new volunteer.
她和前期几位发起人基本都有过类似的志愿者经历，比如汶川地震时期的支教、Metoo线上行动等。
She and several previous sponsors have basically had similar volunteer experience, such as Wenchuan earthquake support, Metoo online operations.
Eve的一般经验是，临时找人，建立志愿者群，分配工作以支撑运转。
Ive's general experience is finding people on a temporary basis, building a volunteer base, and assigning work to support operations.
在这种临时组织里，大家都不怎么熟识，可经验的类似，保证工作的高效。
In such ad hoc organizations, people are not familiar with each other, but experience is similar to ensure efficient work.
除夕夜，朋友圈里几乎每个人都在转发不同渠道的筹款信息，国外的校友会或个人，通过这样的方式向国内捐助钱物。
On New Year's Eve, almost everyone in the circle of friends relays fund-raising messages from different sources, and foreign alumni associations or individuals donate money and goods to the country in this way.
出于对这些个体或组织，以及行动的有效性的好奇，我尝试着与他们接触。
Out of curiosity about these individuals or organizations, and the effectiveness of their actions, I tried to reach them.
经过好几轮的沟通，我发现，这些团体、组织或个体面临着相似的困难。
After several rounds of communication, I found that these groups, organizations, or individuals faced similar difficulties.
最大也是最难解决的问题，便是物资供应不足。
The biggest and most intractable problem is the shortage of supplies.
白依和小陈同学筹集护目镜和手套，她们发现大部分淘宝店或生产厂家提供的口罩和防护服很难符合标准。
Ms. Bai and Ms. Chen raised goggles and gloves and found that most of the masks and protective clothing provided by Taobao stores or manufacturers were difficult to meet standards.
白依告诉我，她们曾试图联系一些商家和厂商，都说现在没有货。
Bei told me that they had tried to contact a number of vendors and manufacturers, all of which said they were out of stock.
那么货去哪里了呢？其实都应国家要求配往武汉了。
So where did the goods go? In fact, in response to the request of the state to Wuhan.
然而，应国家要求发往武汉的很多货物，滞后于民间团体输送的医疗物资。
However, many goods sent to Wuhan at the request of the State lag behind medical supplies delivered by non-governmental organizations.
尽管如此，民间救助依然会遭遇某些尴尬的境地。
Still, there are some awkward situations for private bailouts.
例如25号当天中午，白依与武汉一家医院联系的时候，对方提到，国家送来的物资已经落实，暂时不缺东西。
For example, at noon on the 25th, Baiyi and a Wuhan hospital contact, the other side mentioned that the State has sent the material has been implemented, there is no shortage of things.
武汉当地的一些医院规定，不能接受民间捐赠。
Some local hospitals in Wuhan have ruled against accepting donations from non-governmental organizations.
白依和Eve团队只好选择顺丰或其他有绿色通道的快递，将医疗物资直接寄给医生。
Baie and the Eve team had to choose Shunfeng or other express delivery with a green channel to send medical supplies directly to the doctor.
刚参与了澳洲山火募捐行动的澳洲网友@雲五，在当地本就很难买口罩的情况下，仍然想办法购买了一些物资，打算捐到武汉。
An Australian netizen who has just taken part in the campaign for collecting money for mountain fires in Australia has been trying to buy some materials for donations to Wuhan, since it is difficult to buy masks locally.
1月24日之前，湖北省出台的一系列文件，却显示政府暂时不接受境外捐赠。
Before January 24, Hubei province issued a series of documents, but showed that the government does not accept foreign donations temporarily.
雲五只能透过红十字会，武汉海关，湖北卫生健康委员会等机构，希望将物资运送国内。
As a result, flowers can only be sent through the Red Cross, Wuhan Customs, Hubei Health Commission and other agencies.
红十字、武汉海关提供的境外捐赠联系方式无法接通，湖北卫健委则专门强调拒收境外捐助。
The Red Cross, Wuhan Customs to provide overseas donor contact information can not be connected, Hubei Wei Bodyguard Committee specifically stressed the rejection of foreign donations.
政策规定，或联系机构无果的情况下，悉尼的一些华人医师将物资从厦门口岸入境，运送到武汉。
As a matter of policy, or in the absence of a contact, some Chinese physicians in Sydney brought supplies from Xiamen to Wuhan.
这算得上典型的曲线救助了。
This is a typical curve rescue.
部分自发组织的结构，更加心明眼亮，它们敏锐地捕捉到政府救援，甚至媒体报道的不足。
Part of the self-organized structure, more clear-sighted, they are keen to capture the government rescue, even the lack of media coverage.
Eve团队认为，当前除了武汉，湖北省其他城市或地区的支援力量非常薄弱，媒体报道对武汉周边城市关注，明显不够。
Besides Wuhan, the support forces in other cities or regions in Hubei Province are very weak at present, according to the Eve team.
所以，她们将救助目标，锁定为武汉周边如荆州，黄石等城市。
Therefore, they will rescue the target, targeted for Wuhan surrounding such as Jingzhou, Yellowstone and other cities.
在今年的救助行动中，我发现，当地政府的某些做法，反向激活了民间救助和志愿行动的效力。
In this year's rescue operation, I found that some local government practices, on the contrary, activated the effectiveness of civil relief and voluntary action.
这次疫情，至少在武汉封城的前后几天内，志愿者凭借自己的经验和能力，几乎走上了舞台中央。
This outbreak, at least in Wuhan before and after the closure of the city, volunteers relying on their experience and ability, almost stepped into the center of the stage.
其在以前的活动中得到锻炼的一些特点，如临时组建、灵活组织、民间渠道、联系网广泛，在面对反应迟滞举措落后的湖北政府的时候，正好发挥了作用。
Some of the characteristics that they have learned from their previous activities, such as ad hoc formation, flexible organization, private channels and extensive networks, have played a role in the face of the sluggish response of the Hubei government.
前线和后方，在合规的限度内，达成了一种几乎无中介的联合。
On the front and back, within the limits of compliance, there is a coalition that is almost non-intermediated.
它直接与医院甚至医生个人进行沟通，志愿者们现在是医护人员之外，最了解湖北医院物资实际情况的人。
It communicates directly with hospitals and even with individual doctors, who are now the most knowledgeable people outside the medical staff about the actual conditions of Hubei hospitals.
借助于这个时代无比发达的通讯手段，志愿者们得以在全国的不同角落就能联合成组织，降低了参与志愿活动的成本，而在电商推动下迅速发展的快递物流，则成了封城之后医护人员们的最后一道战壕。
Thanks to the age-old means of communication, volunteers were able to organize themselves in different parts of the country, reducing the cost of participation in voluntary activities, while the rapid expansion of express logistics, driven by electronic commerce, became the last trench for medical personnel after the closure of the city.
志愿者借助接近于“邻里互助”的行动逻辑，与自发性，它对官方，或科层体系顾及不到的系统和角落，进行有效地纠偏和补充。
With the aid of a logic of action close to "neighborhood help," and spontaneity, volunteers are able to effectively correct and supplement systems and corners that are beyond the reach of the official or hierarchical system.
此次疫情中，民间力量的这些“补充“，或“纠偏”行动，是消解还是加固了政府对NGO或民间机构相对不那么信任的认知，和心态？一切还有待观望。
It remains to be seen whether these "add-ons," or "corrective" actions by civilian forces, will dispel or reinforce the government's relative lack of trust in NGOs or civil society institutions.
当然，我不否认志愿捐助本身也存在一些问题，比如来源过多会给医院造成工作量上的增加，以及捐助物资不符合医用标准，有可能会被医院拒收。
I do not deny, of course, that there are problems with voluntary contributions themselves, such as the increased workload of hospitals as a result of too many sources, and the fact that donations do not meet medical standards and may be rejected by hospitals.
在写完这篇观察手札后，雲五发表在豆瓣上的日记《海外捐助武汉，处处红灯》被删帖。
After writing this note, an dust-leaf dust journal Donating to Wuhan, Red Light everywhere, published by an eager beancurd, was censored.
我又联系到一位在泰国工作的导游，她和她的同行为疫区捐献了大批口罩物资。
I contacted a tour guide working in Thailand who donated large quantities of surgical masks to her endemic area.
26号当天凌晨，又有几位导游带着口罩刚刚回国内。
In the early morning of the 26th, several more guides had just returned home wearing masks.
民间救助团体、志愿者们是如何参与进这页历史的书写，我们正在看，也都看到了。
We are reading and seeing how civil aid groups and volunteers have been involved in writing this page of history.
（文中姓名均为化名，指导老师：吴畅畅）主编执行主编 --END-- 主编| 华实执行主编 | 拾贰美术总编 |四七、木羊美编组 |云起、果子、鲸落、海岛、层层。
Ren Chang Chang, chief editor-in-chief and editor-in-chief of Wuchang Chang, the editor-in-chief and chief editor-in-chief of Huawei has never seen anything but clouds, fruit, whales, islands and layers of land.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
号外｜你在城内战斗，我在城外支援。
Outside, you are fighting in the city, and I am on the outside.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "娱志TheReview";。
var nickname = & quot; entertainment The Review & quot;;
var msg_title = "号外｜你在城内战斗，我在城外支援";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; +: You fought in the city, and I supported & quot; outside.
var msg_desc = "这就是爱";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="娱志TheReview";。
var title = & quot; entertainment The Review & quot;;
