武汉，无法忘却的31天。
Wuhan, can not forget the 31 days.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
2020年2月23日，武汉封城整一个月。
Wuhan city closed for one month on February 23, 2020.
以下是武汉在过去一个月中的31个片段，它们来自一线记者的所见、来自市民在社交平台上的记录，它们汇聚在一起，构成了这座城市最难忘的一段记忆。
Here are 31 excerpts from Wuhan in the past month, taken from first-line reporters and recorded by citizens on social platforms. Together, they constitute one of the city's most memorable memories.
策划｜《人物》编辑部2020年01月23日小雨4℃~6℃武汉封城。
plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, plan, organize
出租司机李少云在下午三点接到一个订单，送一位滞留在武汉的大学生回鄂州。
Li Shaoyun, a taxi driver, received an order at 3 pm to send a college student stranded in Wuhan back to Huizhou.
原路返回时，在乡道和国道的交界处，她被一辆路虎车拦住，车主劝她，别回去啦，现在的人已经出不去了。
When the original road returned, she was stopped by a Land Rover at the junction of Heung Hom Road and State Road. The owner advised her not to go back.
那是2020年1月23日晚上七点半，武汉周边的路口已经全部封锁，路虎车的后面，密密麻麻地排着数百辆等待出城的车，焦急的人们有的下了车观望，就站在路边，望着离开武汉的方向。
At 7: 30 p.m. on January 23, 2020, the intersection around Wuhan has been completely blocked, behind the Land Rover, hundreds of cars waiting to leave the city, some anxious people from the car watching, standing on the roadside, watching the direction of leaving Wuhan.
2020年01月24日小雨4℃~7℃除夕夜。
10: 00 light rain on January 24, 2020 ~ 7 New Year's Eve.
晚上11点44分，武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇刚刚离开医院。
11: 44 pm, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital of the Director of Severe Medicine Peng Zhiyong just left the hospital.
回家的路上，他接到了一位记者打来的电话，被问到「压力大吗」，他叹了一口气，面对一些问题，他显得欲言又止。
On his way home, he received a phone call from a journalist, who asked if he was "stressed out." He sighed and faced some questions.
采访即将结束时，零点已过，他对记者说：「新年好啊，新年要平安，以前我们都说新年快乐，现在我们说新年平安。
"Good New Year," he told reporters shortly after midnight. "We used to say Happy New Year, but now we say New Year's peace.
健康才是最重要的。
Health is the most important thing.
」湖北省武汉市汉秀剧场的外墙打出「武汉加油」字样 尹夕远 摄2020年01月25日雨夹雪 3℃~4℃大年初一，家在武汉的记者安琪独自工作了一整天。
Hanxiu Theater in Wuhan, Hubei Province, printed the words "Wuhan refueling" on the outside walls of the theater. Yun Xi Yuan took pictures on January 25, 2020.
从1月21日开始，她连续在发热门诊采访，为了避免传染家人的可能，她搬到了楼上邻居空置的房子，自我隔离。
Starting on January 21, she was interviewed in a fever clinic and, to avoid the possibility of contagion to her family, moved to the vacant house next door and isolated herself.
这天的午饭是一碗面，配菜是母亲从小区后面的荒地里刨来的野菜。
Lunch on this day is a bowl of noodles, the side dish is mother from the backyard of the wasteland planed wild vegetables.
封城之前，她的父母完全没把病毒当一回事儿，也没有青菜和肉类的储备。
Before the city was closed, her parents completely ignored the virus and had no reserves of vegetables and meat.
直到除夕夜才发现超市生鲜区被附近居民扫荡一空，没有任何绿色。
It was not until New Year's Eve that the fresh section of the supermarket was emptied of nearby residents without any green.
随后，妈妈戴上口罩去后山找还没开花的油菜苔和荠菜，摘满一袋子，带回家包成饺子，搭配面条。
Then, mother put on a mask to the back of the mountain to find rape moss and shepherd's purse has not blossomed, picked up a bag, take home bag into dumplings, matching noodles.
这成了蔬菜恢复供应之前，安琪家里唯一的绿色。
It was the only green in the home before vegetables returned to supply.
2020年01月26日雨夹雪 3℃~1℃汉口医院护士@三点半 开始自我隔离的第一天。
13: 40 Hankou Hospital nurse @ 3pm on the first day of self-isolation.
她在微博上用以下文字做了记录——「大年初一13：00，我们在没有任何防护措施、只有一个口罩和头套、手套的情况下徒手抢救一个高度疑似肺炎的病人，好多套cpr不停地推药电除颤，我到现在还能听到他最后生命衰竭的声音，可惜最后他还是没有挺过来，死于心梗。
"At 13: 00 on New Year's Day, we rescued a highly suspected pneumonia patient by hand without any protection, only a mask and a hood and gloves. Several sets of cpr kept pushing and shaking.
结束之后，我重新换了一套没有意义的科室备用的隔离服，换上了干净口罩，换上了早就不知道怎么弄破的乳胶手套，和同事一起去给他把身上的导管都拔了，给他盖好被子就默默地回来了……事情做完了，我赶紧冲到水龙头狠狠的洗手洗脸，我也知道应该没有意义了，可是我只想用冷水让我清醒这已经发生的事情。
At the end of the day, I changed back into a pointless department back-up suit, put on a clean mask, changed into latex gloves I didn't know how to break, went to work with my colleagues, pulled out all the ducts and covered him in silence.
我只想哭，我想回家，可我又不敢回家，家里还有家人。
I just want to cry, I want to go home, but I dare not go home, there are family.
事情已经发生了，也只好自求多福。
Things have happened, and we have to ask for more.
同事开玩笑说我们也算是同生共死了，先合张影，等14天潜伏期我们都没发病好好的，再合一张，不行就一起住院去凑个包间。
Colleagues joked that we were living and dying together, first closing the picture, waiting for the incubation period of 14 days we have not had a good illness, then another, not together to go to the hospital to make up a bag.
今天隔离第一天，我也希望我们能好好的。
Today is the first day of isolation, And I hope we can do it.
也一定会的。
I'm sure I will.
」图源三点半微博2020年01月27日晴-1℃~6℃武汉女孩李梦的预产期。
Wuhan girl expected due date of Li Meng, Wuhan girl July 27, 2020.
武汉封城后，她做产检的医院设立了发热门诊，暂时不再接收新患者——这也是很多身在武汉的孕妇共同面临的困境。
Wuhan closed the city, she did the hospital set up a fever clinic, temporarily no longer accept new patients - this is a lot of pregnant women in Wuhan common difficulties.
直到大年初一，李梦仍然没有找到可以接收的公立医院，只好在一家私立医院做了住院预约。
Until the New Year's Day, Li Meng still could not find acceptable public hospitals, had to make a private hospital appointment.
预产期这天，一切安好。
All is well on the expected date of birth.
深夜，阵痛开始了。
Late at night, the pain began.
第二天一早，李梦和家人去了医院，下午3点多进产房，晚上9点多，宝宝出生，顺产，是个男孩，她给孩子取了一个小名叫「佑佑」，保佑的佑，希望他能平平安安。
The next morning, Li Meng and her family went to the hospital, more than 3 pm into the delivery room, more than 9 p.m., the baby was born, the birth, is a boy, she gave the child a little named "You You," bless you, hope he can be safe.
2020年01月28日晴-1℃ ~8℃38岁的武汉人桃子在这一天终于回到武汉，带着她的女儿和母亲。
09: 50 Wuhan, 38, finally returned to Wuhan on that day, taking her daughter and mother with her.
此前，她们去外地旅行，但只能躲在郊区的临时住处吃泡面，生怕一不小心就因为是武汉人而被举报，身在外地的武汉人建了临时的微信群，分享着各种能够回到武汉的方法，桃子按照其中的方法购买了路过武汉的高铁票——那是她坐过的最空旷也最安静的一列高铁，车厢里不到十个人，安静的像没有人。
Wuhan people in other parts of the country built makeshift micro-belief groups and shared various ways to get back to Wuhan, where peaches bought the most empty and quiet train she had ever traveled - the emptiest and quietest train she had ever seen.
到达武汉时，列车停车，人们忽然不约而同地起身下车。
When we arrived in Wuhan, the train stopped and people suddenly got up and got off the train.
隔着口罩，他们看不到彼此的表情，只挑着眉毛互相打招呼。
Through their masks, they couldn't see each other's faces and greeted each other with their eyebrows raised.
下车之后，桃子对坐在自己后面的群友说，「终于回来了。
After she got off the bus, the peach said to her friends who were sitting behind her.
」武汉火车站站台 尹夕远 摄2020年01月29日晴-1℃~12℃一首名为《武汉伢》的歌曲在这一天刷爆了武汉人的朋友圈。
Wuhan railway station platform Yun Xi Yuan took a picture 202020A song called "Wuhan So" exploded in Wuhan people's circle of friends on that day.
这是武汉封城期间，由3位武汉音乐人创作、17位武汉文艺工作者演唱的公益歌曲。
This is Wuhan during the closure of the city, created by three Wuhan Musicians, 17 Wuhan artists singing public welfare songs.
每位演唱者都在全国不同的地方，他们用手机录制，最终传回上海合成。
Each singer is performed in different parts of the country, recorded on a cell phone and eventually sent back to Shanghai to be synthesized.
歌里描绘的是武汉最普通的生活日常，夏天的竹床，热干面，黄鹤楼，江汉路，二厂汽水……但MV里记录的则是武汉几乎空无一人的街道，MV的最后写道，「我从未见过这样的武汉/但我相信/明媚的阳光终会照亮这片土地/樱花会再次盛开/过早的人们依旧吃着热干面/街道会再次人声鼎沸/我们会摘下口罩/去自己想去的地方/见想见的人。
Wuhan is described as the most ordinary daily life, summer bamboo bed, hot and dry surface, Yellow Crane Tower, Jianghan Road, Second Factory Soda... But the MV records Wuhan, almost empty street.
」当天，武汉作家方方在微博上转发了这首歌，写道：「热泪盈眶。
"Wuhan writer Fang Fang forwarded the song on Weibo, saying:" Tears are welling up in your eyes.
」2020年01月30日晴0℃~13℃当晚，网友@一宝 suer 在武汉的二环路上拍到了魔幻的一幕——一只野猪在空旷的二环路上狂奔，随后，他将这则视频发上了微博，引来无数人围观。
10: 38 A wild boar racing down an empty Second Ring Road was captured on Wuhan's Second Ring Road when he posted the video on a Weibo, drawing crowds of onlookers.
13天后，还有人记挂着这只猪，在这条微博下留言：「不知二师兄怎么样了，平安到家没有，还是又跑进了什么人的梦里。
Thirteen days later, someone still remembered the pig and wrote on the microblog, "I wonder what happened to my second brother, whether he got home safely or ran into someone's dream again.
」2020年01月31日晴0℃~10℃经停武汉的高铁上，一位记者跟列车员说想在武汉下车，对方说让她等回复。
10: 52 On the Wuhan high-speed railway, a reporter told the conductor that he wanted to get off in Wuhan, and he said he would let her wait for a reply.
过一会儿来了一个列车长，检查身份证，名片，还要看采访函……没带采访函的记者心里打鼓，担心不被放行。
After a while came a conductor, check ID cards, business cards, and interview letters... did not bring the reporter letter heart drum, afraid not to be released.
结果，列车长说，「如果你没有证明，就没有专用通道了，要和普通人一块儿出站。
As a result, the conductor said, "If you don't prove it, there is no special passageway. You have to go out with ordinary people.
」说完，列车长停了几秒，很认真地说：「下了车，一定要做好防护。
"The conductor paused for a few seconds, then said earnestly," Be sure to take precautions when you get out of the car.
」下车后，这位记者看到的第一眼的武汉，有一层薄雾，安静，空无一人。
"After getting off, the reporter saw the first sight of Wuhan, a layer of mist, quiet, empty.
在去往酒店的路上，只有几辆急行的救护车和她擦肩而过，但她始终记得列车长的那双眼睛，「很亮」。
On her way to the hotel, only a few ambulances brushed past her, but she remembered the eyes of the conductor, "bright."
2020年02月01日晴4℃~13℃武汉封城的第十天。
10: 38 Wuhan Seal the 10th day of the city.
连续几天的放晴，整个城市的气温逐渐回升。
After a few days of sunshine, the temperature of the whole city is gradually rising.
家住东湖边一个老小区的女孩木木打开了阳台的窗户，发现一楼院子里搭的棚子顶上，睡着一只黑色的猫，隔着四层楼的距离，她都能感觉到它那黑色的毛集满阳光后的松软，以及伴着肚子起伏的呼噜声。
A girl who lived in an old neighborhood on the East Lake opened a window on the balcony and found a shed on the ground floor yard. A black cat was asleep. Four stories away, she could feel the soft black hair gathering behind the sun and the rolling grunt of her stomach.
她对着它喊：「喂，猫！」它一动不动，旁边的橘猫突然起身，随后又继续酣睡着。
She called to him, "Hello, Cat!" He did not move, and the orange cat next to him rose suddenly and went on soundly.
木木说，封城以来，她从没下过楼，但那一刻，她几乎产生了一种错觉，忘记了疫情的存在，好像回到了往常的日子。
She had never been downstairs since the city was closed, she said, but at that moment she almost had the illusion that the outbreak was there, as if she had returned to her old days.
转身回到现实中，她在豆瓣记录下了这个瞬间，写道：「不知道可以随随便便下楼、随随便便逗猫的日子，躺在未来日历的哪一页。
Turning to reality, she recorded the moment in the petal, "I don't know which page of the future calendar I can casually go downstairs and tease the cat."
」图源豆瓣2020年02月02日多云转晴6℃~11℃距离火神山医院接收首批患者只剩两天时间。
The first batch of patients admitted to the Mount Huoshen Hospital is only two days away.
深夜，仍有工人在通宵赶工。
Late at night, workers were still working all night.
第二天上午，几位熬了一夜的工人坐在病房的一楼抽烟，解困，有记者来采访，问他们，通宵有没有加班费，一个小包工头回复说，没问。
The next morning, several workers who had stayed up all night sat on the ground floor of the ward smoking and relieving their distress. A reporter came to interview them and asked them if there was overtime pay all night.
一旁还有工人在修水管，他们戴的是薄薄的粉红色口罩，手成天泡在水里，发白了。
On one side were workmen mending water pipes, wearing thin pink masks and white hands soaking in the water all day.
离开火神山回到住处，这位记者在当天的采访手记写道：「这些个体，是这样一个奇迹工程里最值得赞美的部分。
"These individuals are the most admirable parts of such a miraculous project," the reporter wrote in an interview on the day as he left Mount Fire.
」2020年02月03日多云转晴0℃ ~ 12℃上午十点多，武汉大学中南医院影像科副主任张笑春发了一条朋友圈，「别再迷信核酸检测了，强烈推荐CT影像作为诊断2019-nCoV肺炎的主要依据。
10: 00 a.m. Zhang Xiaochunfa, deputy director of imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, had a circle of friends. "Stop superstition about nucleic acid testing and highly recommend CT imaging as the main basis for diagnosing 2019-nCoV pneumonia.
」这是一线医生首次公开质疑核酸检测的可靠性问题。
This is the first time a frontline doctor has publicly questioned the reliability of a nucleic acid test.
当时，核酸检测是确诊新冠肺炎的唯一依据，但由于检测存在较高的「假阴性率」，大量疑似病人无法得到及时收治。
At the time, nucleic acid testing was the only basis for the diagnosis of New Crown Pneumonia, but a large number of suspected patients could not be admitted in time because of the high "false negative" detection rate.
两天之后，国家卫健委印发第五版新冠肺炎诊疗方案，规定将CT影像作为临床诊断标准（仅限于湖北省）。
Two days later, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the fifth edition of the New Crown Pneumonia Diagnostic Program, which stipulates CT images as a clinical diagnostic standard (limited to Hubei Province).
十几天后，在接受《人物》采访时，张笑春说，她的父母也在这次疫情中双双感染，1月20号左右，她为母亲办理新冠住院手续时，看到在医院大厅很多病人，有人抱着肚子在地板上躺着，有人抱着头，有人猛咳，她看到他们手里提的CT片子，其中有一张片子就是她经手拍的。
A few days later, in an interview with People, Zhang said her parents also contracted the disease, and when she checked in with her mother around January 20, she saw many patients lying on the floor with their stomachs on their stomachs, some holding their heads and some coughing.
「那双肺已经白了，哎哟，当时我那个心真的是被刺痛了。
"That pair of lungs is already white, Ouch, my heart was really stabbed at that time.
」张笑春医生在电脑前工作 图源网络2020年02月04日晴0℃~14℃立春。
Dr. CHEUNG Kwok-chun in front of a computer map source network 2020-02-04 Fine Spring.
武汉市第五医院的发热门诊中，输液室、留观室和抢救室都挤满了人，无处下脚。
In the fever clinic of Wuhan Fifth Hospital, the infusion room, the observation room and the rescue room were crowded with people with nowhere to go.
抢救室门窗没关，站在门口就能看见医护们在紧张地操作着。
The doors and windows of the emergency room were open, and the paramedics could be seen working nervously at the door.
门诊外，一位大爷趿拉着拖鞋，气定神闲地啃着甘蔗。
Outside the clinic, a patron of slippers, calmly gnawed at sugar cane.
路过的记者问他：「你怎么不戴口罩？在医院门口很危险。
A passing reporter asked him, "Why are you not wearing a mask? It's dangerous in front of the hospital.
」他回头看了一眼记者，说：「我不怕得病，我死了算了。
"He looked back at the reporter and said," I'm not afraid of illness.
」这位记者说，那是她在武汉看到的最放松的一个人。
"The reporter said it was the most relaxed person she had ever seen in Wuhan.
2020年02月05日晴转小雨 3℃~15℃志愿者司机成冬这一天接到的订单中，有几单来自一线的护士。
09: 38 volunteer drivers received orders this winter from a number of front-line nurses.
早上乘车的那位护士，20多岁，上车就哭了。
The nurse, in her early twenties, got on the bus and began to cry.
因为在医院的CT筛查中查出肺病，她被要求回家待命，但她不愿意休息，因为「我的同事都在一线，我回家心里很愧疚」。
She was asked to go home on standby because of pulmonary disease detected during the CT screening in the hospital, but she did not want to rest because "my colleagues were on the line and I felt sorry to go home."
还有一位医生，是个孕妇，怀孕七个月，住在距离医院18公里的地方，她说同事们都在一线，自己也想要加入他们，能帮一些是一些。
Another doctor, a pregnant woman who was seven months pregnant and lived 18 kilometers from the hospital, said her colleagues were on the front line and wanted to join them.
最初，社区有车接送人，后来知道她是医生，没人敢载她了，她就四处求人带她去上班。
Initially, the community had a car to pick her up, but when she learned that she was a doctor and nobody dared drive her, she begged people to take her to work.
送完这位医生，成冬把车停在路边，哭了整整一个小时。
After seeing the doctor off, he parked his car by the side of the road and cried for an hour.
他说，从这一天之后，他依旧每天跑车，接人，也听了无数悲伤、糟糕、痛苦的故事，但他却再也没有哭过。
After that day, he said, he continued to run cars, pick up people, and listen to countless sad, awful, painful stories, but he never cried again.
成冬送护士去上班图源网络2020年02月06日小雨转阴 4℃~6℃武汉首个方舱医院启动的第二天，在病房中读福山的付先生成为其中最著名的患者。
09: 48 Mr. Fu Shan, who was reading in the hospital room, became the most famous of the patients the day after Wuhan's first cabin hospital was launched.
付先生是方舱医院的第一批入院患者。
Mr. Fu was one of the first patients admitted to the cabin hospital.
入院晚上，他戴着口罩，倚在病床上读书，读的是著名日裔美籍学者弗朗西斯·福山的《政治秩序的起源：从前人类时代到法国大革命》。
On the night of his admission, he was reclining in his bed wearing a mask and reading Francis Fukuyama, a renowned Japanese-American scholar, on the origins of the political order: from the pre-human era to the French Revolution.
这一幕被《湖北日报》的记者拍了下来，随之火遍全网。
This scene was "Hubei Daily" reporter filmed down, and then fire all over the network.
2月7日，弗朗西斯·福山本人在推特上转发了这张照片。
Francis Fukuyama himself posted the photo on Twitter on 7 February.
很多网友感叹，「阅读是一所随身携带的避难所。
Many netizens lament, "Reading is a shelter to take with you."
」据《湖北日报》随后的报道，付先生今年39岁，是留美博士后，在美国佛罗里达州立大学教书，研究方向是高分辨冷冻电镜。
Mr. Fu, 39, teaches at Florida State University in the United States and is a 39-year-old doctoral fellow working on high-resolution frozen mirrors, Hubei Daily reported later.
这次过年，他回武汉探望父母，没想到自己和家人相继感染上新冠肺炎。
This New Year, he returned to Wuhan to visit his parents, did not expect himself and his family have been infected with pneumonia.
那则报道的评论区，读者们纷纷询问付先生是否结婚，在此后的很长一段时间内，这本书的出版方理想国每天都能收到微博私信询问，「那个读福山的小哥出院了吗？」在方舱医院看书的付先生 图源网络2020年02月07日阴转多云 2℃~7℃这天晚上，武汉姑娘KxxKiko听到邻居用小号吹起了《思念曲》，她回忆道，当时自己推开窗户，「听得痴了。
In the comment section of the report, readers asked Mr. Fu if he was married, and for a long time thereafter, the publisher of the book, Utopia, received a daily microblog asking, "Is that brother of Fukuyama discharged from hospital?
」乐曲声中，还混合着其他邻居的哨声和掌声。
"The music was mingled with the whistles and applause of the other neighbors.
她用视频记录下了这一幕，并将这则32秒的视频发上了微博，写道：「愿音乐治愈每个人的心灵，晚安。
She recorded the scene on video and posted the 32-second video on Twitter, "May music heal everyone's heart. Good night.
」此时，武汉市中心医院的门诊楼外，堆满了人们自发送来的鲜花，其中一捧是车厘子做的，「花束」中有一个小纸条，上面写着：「愿来世吃遍天下。
At this time, outside the outpatient clinic building of Wuhan Central Hospital, there was a huge pile of flowers, one of which was made of cherries. In the bouquet, there was a little note that said, "May the afterlife be eaten all over the world.
」据该院官方消息，李文亮医生于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分抢救无效去世。
According to the hospital's official sources, Dr Liang died at 2.58 a.m. on February 7, 2020.
武汉市中心医院的门诊楼外的「花束」罗婷 摄2020年02月08日多云转晴 1℃~10℃武汉人张琼终于为母亲找到了一个可以做透析的私人血透中心。
Wuhan Central Hospital outside the out-patient building of the "flower bouquet" Lo Ting 2020-02-08 02: 00 Cloudy turned fine Wuhan Qiong finally found a mother can do dialysis of a private blood transfusion center.
她的母亲今年79岁，患有尿毒症，长期做肾脏透析，每周三次。
Her mother, 79, suffers from uremia and has long-term kidney dialysis, three times a week.
但疫情爆发后，母亲常去做透析的医院被征收为定点发热医院，透析室也随之关闭。
But after the outbreak, the hospital where the mother often went to dialysis was confiscated as a fixed-point fever hospital, and the dialysis room was closed.
如果不能及时透析，基础病缠身的母亲最多只能挺一周。
Without timely dialysis, mothers with basic ailments can stay up to a week at most.
七天里，她带着母亲辗转武汉各大医院寻找可以透析的地方。
For seven days, she took her mother to Wuhan hospitals looking for places to dialyse.
即便母亲多次核酸检测均为阴性，也没有任何新冠肺炎的症状，还是无处透析。
Even if the mother tested negative for multiple nucleic acid tests, she did not show any symptoms of Newly Coronary Pneumonia or dialysis.
理由是，张琼的母亲有慢性肺炎，而根据医院的规定，「只要有肺炎就不收治」。
The reason was that Ms. Zhang's mother had chronic pneumonia and, according to the hospital's rules, "she will not be admitted as long as she has pneumonia."
这一天，在私人血透中心自费为母亲透析的张琼说，她的愿望是下次透析时，她们不会被这家私人血透中心拒绝。
Zhang, who paid for her mother's dialysis at a private hemodialysis centre, said her hope was that the next dialysis would not be rejected by the private hemodialysis centre.
2020年02月09日晴1℃~13℃在武昌方舱，新冠肺炎患者付丹看到了病友们自发地跳起了广场舞。
09: 38 Fu Dan, a patient with pneumonia in Wuchang, saw his sick friends dancing in the square on their own initiative.
她是在3天前的雨夜住进方舱的。
It was on a rainy night three days ago that she was lodged in the cabin.
住进来的第一天，方舱初建，她经历了湿冷的，没有空调的夜晚，靠着安定才入睡。
The first day she came in, the cabin was newly built, she had a wet, cold, air-conditioned night, and she slept by settling down.
第二天，她看到有人在收垃圾，以为是清洁工，后来才知道是病友。
The next day, she saw someone collecting rubbish, thinking it was a dustman, but later learned that it was a sick friend.
那天起，情绪消极的付丹也开始行动起来，自发做一些志愿服务。
From that day on, Fudan, who was in a negative mood, began to volunteer on his own initiative.
住进方舱的第四天，方舱的暖气和新被子来了，厕所有灯了，可以洗澡了，漏雨的地方也有遮挡了。
On the fourth day of stay in the cabin, the radiator and the new quilt arrived, the lavatory had a light, it was ready for a bath, and there was shelter in the leaking place.
付丹记得，跳舞的这天晚上，病友们特意同时用手机进入同一个直播频道，让音乐伴奏有了立体环绕的效果。
Fudan remembers that on the night of the dance, the sick people entered the same live channel simultaneously with their cell phones, giving the music a three-dimensional surround effect.
接受《人物》采访时，付丹说，「其实动作看得清不清楚，齐不齐啊，是次要的。
In an interview with People, Fu Dan said, "Actually I can't see clearly and I can't see them clearly.
主要是在于那个心情。
Mainly in that mood.
」病人们在医护人员的带领下跳起了广场舞图源风视频2020年02月10日小雨5℃~10℃武汉女孩薇薇的妈妈在这一天出院了。
Wuhan girl's mother was discharged from hospital on the same day, as doctors and nurses led her to the square dancing source.
刚刚过去的一月，这位女孩因为新冠肺炎失去了爸爸和奶奶，妈妈也因新冠肺炎住院治疗。
Just last January, the girl lost her father and grandmother to pneumonia, and her mother was hospitalized with pneumonia.
出院这天，薇薇妈妈回家第一顿饭吃的是湖北特色排骨鱼面汤，家人提前买了1000多块钱的肉囤着，要让她「餐餐都有肉」，这位妈妈自己也很积极，虽然没法儿出门，每天都会打开手机对着视频跳操。
On the day of her discharge, Vivian's mother returned home to her first meal with a special Hubei sparerib fish noodle soup. The family bought more than 1,000 yuan in advance for a "meat meal," and the mother herself was very active, turning on her cell phone and jumping into the video every day.
薇薇说，解除封城后，最想做的事情是和妈妈一起出去旅行，去哪里都好。
Vivian said that after the closure, the most wanted thing is to go with her mother to travel, wherever it is good.
2020年02月11日阴转多云 5℃~13℃武汉市中心医院医生蔡毅查完房、脱下防护服，在清洁区打开手机，微信群弹出一则消息：林军走了。
10: 38 Dr. Cai Yi, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, finished checking the room, took off his protective clothing and opened his mobile phone in the clean area.
林军是中心医院南京路园区门口小卖部的老板，做生意十几年，因为做事麻利、为人实在，和很多医生护士都成了熟人，「医院院长书记换了一茬，但林军还在。
Lin Jun, the owner of the shop at the gate of Nanjing Road Park in the central hospital, had been doing business for more than a decade. He knew many doctors and nurses.
」两天前，蔡毅曾接到麻醉科老主任打来的电话，问他有没有床，说「小卖部的林军感染了」。
"Two days ago, Cai Yi received a call from the head of the anesthesiology department asking him if he had a bed and saying" the Lin Jun in the canteen is infected. "
两天后，在中心医院急诊留观室，林军走了。
Two days later, in the central hospital emergency ward, Lin Jun left.
蔡毅发了条长长的朋友圈，写道：「我们都是小人物，在这场疫情的洗礼下，默默地付出，默默地承受生离死别。
Cai Yi-fat a long circle of friends, wrote: "We are all small people, in the baptism of this epidemic, silently pay, silently bear the parting.
」新冠肺炎患者和他的CT底片 尹夕远 摄2020年02月12日多云转多云 8℃~14℃新冠病毒被世界卫生组织正式命名为「COVID-19」。
New crown pneumonia patients and his CT negative, Yin Xi Yuan, Feb. 12, 2020 Cloudy to Cloudy New Crown Virus has been officially named "COVID-19" by the World Health Organization.
同一天，武汉网友@乐祁 在微博记录了两件令她感动的小事——「我单位的一个供应商，并不是武汉人，年前回老家了。
On the same day, Wuhan netizens @ Leqi recorded two trifles that moved her in Weibo - "A supplier of my unit, not a Wuhan native, returned home years ago.
1月27日就开上大货车来汉支援，除了给我们单位保供，还义务运输物资。
January 27 to drive on the big trucks to Han support, in addition to our unit to guarantee, but also the voluntary transport of goods.
今天车跑坏了，没有抱怨，全是感激。
The car broke down today. No complaints, all thanks.
小区保安上班路上摔了一跤还在坚持执勤，业主自发捐款筹了3720块钱，保安只拿了1000块钱，剩余的钱物业又回馈业主买了台消毒机给小区消毒。
Community security on the way to work is still on duty, the owner of the voluntary contributions of 3720 yuan, the security guard took only 1000 yuan, the remaining money property back to the owner bought a disinfector to disinfect the community.
」@乐祁写道：「他们就是这样你我身边的普通人，可此刻，朴素的善意和执着的勇气让他们如此闪光又高贵。
"They were the ordinary people around you and me, but at this moment, their simple kindness and persistent courage made them so shining and noble.
」2020年02月13日多云转小雨9℃~17℃依据新的临床诊断标准，此前一天，湖北全省新增新冠肺炎病例14840例。
14: 48 A new total of 14,840 new cases of pneumonia have been reported in Hubei province the day before, according to new clinical criteria.
一位金银潭医院的护士在日后接受采访时，谈到了那位令她印象最深的逝者——一个非常乐观非常礼貌的爷爷，最后没能抢救回来，离开了。
In a later interview, a nurse from the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital spoke of the deceased, who impressed her the most - a very optimistic and polite grandpa, who eventually failed to recover and left.
清理遗物的时候发现，爷爷包里装着一沓手抄的乐谱。
When cleaning up the relics, Grandpa's bag contained a wad of handwritten music.
老人遗体被运走后，护士说，「我特别伤心。
When the old man's body was taken away, the nurse said, "I am very sad.
」 2020年02月14日小雨5℃~17℃情人节。
14: 20 Valentine's Day is between 5 ° C and 17 ° C. Valentine's Day.
参与建设火神山医院的老刘感染了新冠肺炎，在这一天转入火神山医院治疗。
Lao Liu, who was involved in the construction of the Mount Huoshen Hospital, became infected with Xinguan Pneumonia and was transferred to Mount Huoshen Hospital for treatment that day.
家里人和他视频，隔着屏幕鼓励他，「犟到吃，好好睡，什么都不想，很快就会好起来的」，「你再也不用焦虑了，每天心平气和地躺着，外面的工作都不要操心，只想着怎么吃好睡好，你就全胜了」。
The family and his video encourage him through the screen, "to eat, sleep, nothing, soon," "You do not have to worry, every day quietly lying down, outside the work do not worry, just think about how to eat good sleep, you won.
最可爱的是他的妻子，为了让他保持乐观的心态，跟他开玩笑，「那边伙食那么好，多住几天再回家，家里的鸡蛋牛奶都不够了」。
The loveliest was his wife, who, to keep him sanguine, joked to him, "The food is so good there, I'll stay a few days before I go home, there's not enough eggs and milk in the house."
2020年02月15日大雪-3℃~4℃在武汉江岸区一家社区医院，下午来了一个穿黄色雨衣的中年男人，雨衣上很长一道口子，他把摩拜停下，看医院门口的告示，犹豫要不要进来。
15: 48 A middle-aged man in a yellow raincoat with a long cut in his raincoat arrived at a community hospital in Wuhan Jiangjiang district in the afternoon. He stopped Mobai to look at the sign at the hospital gate and hesitated to come in.
医院里空空荡荡，门口贴了政策规定，社区医院不再收发热病人，也不再看病打针。
Hospitals are empty, and policies have been put in place at the gates to remove febrile patients and injections from community hospitals.
他的母亲从1月中旬一直发烧，被当成新冠疑似患者奔波于各大医院检查，先后拍了7次CT片，均显示正常。
His mother, who had been feverish since mid-January, was seen traveling around major hospitals as a suspected new patient, taking seven CT images, all of which showed signs of normality.
直到前几天才答案揭晓——是肝癌晚期引发的发烧。
It wasn't until a few days ago that the answer became known - a fever caused by advanced liver cancer.
他说他要求不高，只想让母亲的高烧降下来，好受一些就行。
He said he wasn't demanding. He just wanted his mother's fever to come down and make her feel better.
因为不能开车，这天早上，他推着75岁的母亲在雪里走了三小时，找到一家医院，被告知不提供打针，回来时母亲浑身发抖。
Unable to drive, he pushed his 75-year-old mother through the snow for three hours this morning and went to a hospital, where he was told not to be given a needle.
他执意来社区医院，是想撞撞运气，看能不能打针。
He insisted on coming to the community hospital in order to bump into his luck and see if he could get an injection.
结果还是不能。
The result was still no.
他说，他家住江对岸，为了看母亲，封城时被锁在江这边，但江那边还有癌症的妻子刚刚动完手术，只有女儿一个人在照顾。
He said his wife, who lives across the river to see his mother, was locked on the other side of the river, but that his wife, who still has cancer on the other side of the river, has just undergone surgery and her daughter alone is taking care of her.
他已经20多天没有过江了，他的衣服皱皱巴巴，戴着眼镜，说到这里，他沉默了很久。
He had not crossed the river for more than twenty days, his clothes wrinkled and his glasses on, and he was silent for a long time.
2020年02月16日晴-3℃~7℃从这一天起，武汉的超市不再接受个人购买，只接受社区团购。
09: 39 From this date onwards, Wuhan supermarkets will no longer accept individual purchases but only community-group purchases.
螃蟹岬的盒马鲜生门口，一位拖着蓝色购物车的老爷爷被拦住，他告诉门口的工作人员，自己想买点鱼，因为好久没吃鱼了。
At the door of Horse's Point, an old man with a blue shopping cart was stopped. He told the clerk at the door that he wanted to buy some fish because he hadn't eaten for a long time.
他说，自己每天都吃小南瓜，一天切一半，吃了二十多天了。
He said he ate pumpkins every day, cutting them in half a day and eating them for more than 20 days.
工作人员问他：「你申请嘛，怎么不去申请要别的东西？」他问：「跟哪个申请？」然后双手一摊，拖着小车子无奈地走远了。
Staff asked him, "Why don't you apply for something else?" He asked, "With which application?" Then, with both hands, he dragged the cart away helplessly.
超市工作人员整理小区居民团购订单图源网络2020年02月17日多云 -2℃~12℃一场大雪后，气温回暖，武汉街边的花开了。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105] / n. After a heavy snow, the temperature returned and the flowers on Wuhan Street opened.
红十字会医院门口有一个小公园，好多树桃花，白色的、粉色的，已经开得很好。
In front of the Red Cross hospital there is a small park with a lot of peach trees, white and pink, and it is open very well.
这天早上，红十字会医院的医生接待了几位来采访的记者，在其中一位记者的防护服上，医生写了五个字：「我要去看花」，还随手画了一朵花。
This morning, the Red Cross hospital doctor received several reporters who had come to interview. On the protective clothing of one of them, the doctor wrote five words: "I want to see the flowers," and drew a flower.
防护服上的「花」 尹夕远 摄2020年02月18日晴转多云 1℃~14℃作为志愿者，琦恰的工作是给之前打过求助热线的新冠肺炎疑似和确诊的武汉市民打电话，更新他们的情况。
Flowers on protective clothing Yin Xi Yuan Showing Up to Clouds As a volunteer, Qi Cha calls residents of Wuhan city who had previously called the helpline about suspected and confirmed cases of pneumonia in the city to update their situation.
这一天，有一通电话是患者的孙子接的，对方说：「我爷爷已经走了。
One day, a grandson of the patient answered the phone and said, "My grandpa has gone.
」那一瞬间，电话两端的两个人同时陷入了沉默。
"For an instant, the two men on both ends of the line fell silent.
琦恰说，她的胸口一下被堵住，眼泪很快掉下来，泣不成声。
Tsichal said that her chest was blocked and tears soon fell down and she began to cry.
顿了一会，她告诉对方：「对不起，实在太难过了。
"After a pause, she told him," I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
」对方说：「没关系，你们自己也注意。
"That's all right," said the other.
」电话挂了，琦恰一直很难过，揪心地难过，她说，「这是我听到最直接、最近的『死亡』，就在我的耳边……这场灾难到底留给了我们什么？」2020年02月19日多云转晴 2℃~14℃前一天，武汉市第三医院光谷院区ICU护士长蔡利萍在同济医院门口送别了丈夫刘智明。
"The phone hangs up and Tsića is sad and sad all the time," she said. "This is the most direct and recent death I've ever heard of... what's left of this disaster?
51岁的刘智明是武汉市武昌医院院长，也是第一位因新冠肺炎死亡的在职医院院长。
Liu Zhiming, 51, is director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital and the first in-service hospital director to die from pneumonia.
当载着刘智明的遗体的黑色殡葬车驶出同济医院时，穿着防护服的蔡利萍一路追着车子，拍着后备箱，撕心裂肺地哭喊，还跟着车子跑了很远。
As the black funeral van carrying Liu's body drove out of Tongji Hospital, Cai Liping, dressed in protective clothing, chased the car, patted the trunk, cried bitterly, and ran a long way with the car.
这一天，蔡利萍追着车子痛哭的视频传遍全网，有网友看了不禁落泪，「明明没有打开声音，还是那么清楚地感觉到了她的痛彻心扉。
This day, Chua Liping chase the car crying video spread all over the network, some netizens could not help but cry, "clearly did not open the voice, but still feel her pain so clearly.
这几天所有人都在说，等疫情结束后，我们想做什么就做什么，想做这个，想做那个。
Everybody's been saying these days, When the epidemic is over, We're gonna do whatever we want, We want to do this, we want to do that.
可是，我们只是困在家里，而有些人却永远困在了2020。
But we're just stuck at home, and some of us are stuck in 2020.
」妻子蔡利萍追在车子后面跑2020年02月20日晴转小雨 3℃~17℃武汉每日新增确诊病例在连续17天超过四位数后首次降至三位数。
Wife Chua Liping ran behind the car for the first time since the newly confirmed daily cases in Wuhan dropped to three digits after 17 consecutive days in excess of four digits.
一位金银潭医院的护士也迎来了久违的「八小时工作制」，但她却对一位驻扎医院采访多日的记者说，自己可能需要心理干预，因为，这些天每天下班后，她开车回住处，脑袋常常一片空白，违章闯红灯的次数多到「数都数不过来」。
A nurse at the Golden Pool Hospital, who had been away for days, told a reporter who had been in the hospital for days that she might need psychological intervention because she often drove home after work each day, her head was often blank and she ran red lights so often that she could not count them.
她半夜经常睡不着，睡不着就起来看疫情新闻，越看越睡不着。
She often couldn't sleep in the middle of the night, got up to watch the news and couldn't sleep.
记者问她，疫情结束后最想做什么？隔着防护服，她先是笑了，接着抬头往上看了看，想了几秒钟，突然就哭了，她说希望自己的孩子高考顺利。
Reporters asked her what she wanted to do after the epidemic ended. She smiled across the suit, looked up, looked up for a few seconds, then burst into tears, saying she wanted her child to pass the college entrance exam.
入夜，一名医护人员坐在路边休息，路对面是武汉红十字医院发热门诊 尹夕远 摄2020年02月21日小雨转晴 3℃~15℃一位记者在采访日记里记录了前一天看到的一幕——在汉口医院的门口，排起长队，非冠的老人们在这里统一等待领药，药针对慢性病，像糖尿病、高血压等等。
A reporter wrote in an interview diary of a long queue at the gate of Hankou Hospital where non-crowed elderly people were waiting for drugs for chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension.
其中有位老人号码排到800多号，他从12点就到这里，一直等到晚上七点多。
One of them had a number over 800, and he was here from twelve till seven in the evening.
他不敢坐凳子，因为听了他老婆的意见，外面所有的栏杆、座椅都不能碰，怕沾上病毒。
He did not dare to sit on the stool, because after listening to his wife's advice, all the railings and seats outside could not be touched for fear of being infected with the virus.
因为站太长时间，加上他是高血压，等到要进去领药量体温时，是38.5度。
It was 38.5 degrees when he had to go in to take his temperature, because he was standing for too long and because he was hypertensive.
他说并不想让儿子来排队，他老了，并不怕死。
He said he did not want his son to stand in line. He was old and not afraid to die.
2020年02月22日阴 3℃~15℃疫情爆发后，武汉大学中南医院的护士王芳一直在后勤处负责接收物资。
10: 38 Wang Fang, a nurse at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, has been receiving supplies in the logistics department since the outbreak of the disease.
这天中午，一车捐赠物资送到医院，其中有来自云南的鲜花。
At noon that day, a load of donated materials, including flowers from Yunnan, was delivered to the hospital.
王芳去得晚，鲜花数量有限，已经被其他科室陆续领完了。
Wang Fang went late, a limited number of flowers, has been other departments have been finished.
只有一个不熟悉的同事，拿着几捧领到的花摊在地上分拣。
Only an unfamiliar co-worker, with handfuls of the flower stalls, picked them up on the floor.
王芳站在同事身边几米外，多看了一会儿。
Wang Fang stood a few meters away from her colleagues and looked at her for a while.
那人注意到了，从一捧花里分出几枝，隔着口罩对她说，「给你。
The man noticed, took a few sticks out of a handful of flowers and said to her through a mask, "Here you are."
」王芳上一次收到鲜花，是在去年夏天，那天是她的生日，也是丈夫要做大手术的日子，但他还是托人给她买了一束花，送到了科室里。
Wang Fang had last received flowers the previous summer, her birthday and her husband's big operation, but he had them sent for a bouquet of flowers to the office.
再次接过几枝玫瑰，王芳把它们捧回家，插在瓶子里，倒上水。
Again took a few roses, Wang Fang took them home, put them in a bottle, poured water.
告诉丈夫，「这是云南人民给的鲜花。
Tell her husband, "This is a flower from the people of Yunnan.
」云南寄来的鲜花 受访者供图2020年02月23日多云 8℃~18℃仍有一些打工者因为封城滞留在了武昌火车站，他们没有选择政府提供的免费住宿，而是领了被子和方便面，睡在地下车库里。
Some workers still sleep in underground garages instead of free accommodation provided by the government because they are stuck in Wuchang railway station.
一位60岁的大爷每天早起看书，然后在11点的时候步行前往5公里以外的汉街，收集瓶子和硬纸板卖废品。
A 60-year-old man got up early to read a book every day and walked 5 km to Seoul Street to collect bottles and cardboard for scrap.
这些日子，他已经看完了厚厚的《康熙王朝》，并正在研读一本叫《微表情心理学》的书，他说人有124种微表情，如果你能记住其中的10种，那就『干啥都不用求人了』。
These days he had read a thick Kangxi dynasty and was studying a book called Psychology of Micro-Expression. He said people had 124 microexpressions, and if you could remember 10 of them, you wouldn't need to ask for anything.
一天后，2月24日上午，多家媒体同时发出通告：滞留武汉的外地人员可以出城。
One day later, on the morning of Feb. 24, several media simultaneously announced that the people staying in Wuhan could leave the city.
但是，几个小时后，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布消息：放开离汉通道的通告无效，且已对相关人员进行了严肃的批评处理。
However, a few hours later, Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Control Command announced that the announcement to open the Han Channel was invalid, and that the personnel concerned had been seriously criticized.
武昌火车站，滞留在武汉的外地人睡在地下车库 尹夕远 摄。
Wuchang railway station, stranded in Wuhan outsiders sleep in the underground garage Yin Xi Yuan.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉，无法忘却的31天。
Wuhan, can not forget the 31 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉，无法忘却的31天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan, the memorable 31 days & quot;;
var msg_desc = "封城一个月中的31个片段。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 31 episodes in a month.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
