天通苑：“亚洲最大社区”的疫情防控难题。
Tian Tong Yuan: Prevention and Control Problem of "Asia's Largest Community"
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
The following article comes from 中国慈善家杂志。
The following article comes from the Chinese philanthropist magazine.
Author 范颖华 吴可言。
Author Fan Ying Wah Wu.
中国慈善家杂志。
China Philanthropists Magazine.
中国新闻社主管、中国新闻周刊主办。
Head of China News Agency, hosted by China News Weekly.
立足中国，关注全球慈善公益及社会议题，提供专业、理性兼具深度与温度的报道和分析。
Based in China, focus on global public welfare and social issues, provide professional, rational depth and temperature coverage and analysis.
。
.
近50万人的社区防疫战，流动人口密集与社会治理下沉之困天通苑人员密集，外来人员多。
Nearly half a million people in the community vaccination campaign, mobile population density and social governance sinking of the difficult Tiantong Yuan densely populated, more foreign personnel.
2月6日以来，北京市疾控中心连续发布新发病例活动过的小区或场所，天通苑社区占了6例。
Since February 6, Beijing CDC has issued new cases of activities in the neighborhood or site, Tiantong Yuan community accounted for 6 cases.
从最早风传限制外地人员返回社区，到天通东苑二区三次被列入新增确诊病例活动场所名单，天通苑屡成热门话题。
Tian Tong Court has been a hot topic since the earliest days when people from outside Hong Kong returned to their communities and were added to the list of newly confirmed cases in Area 2 of Tin Tong Court.
常住人口基数庞大、租户群体密集返京，有“亚洲最大社区”之称的天通苑疫情防控压力巨大。
The resident population base is large, the tenant groups are returning to Beijing, there is "Asia's largest community" known as the Tiantong Yuan epidemic prevention and control pressure is enormous.
作为“巨无霸”社区，它是超大城市的缩影，也在防疫之战凸显出基层治理的诸多难题。
As the "Big Mac" community, it is a microcosm of the mega-city, but also in the battle against epidemic highlighted many difficulties in grass-roots governance.
人手严重不足《中国慈善家》在采访中发现，随着外地返京人群不断增加，天通苑社区也严阵以待，小区门口均有醒目的红色标识牌提示：外地返京居民必须到社区主动登记，体温测量正常后方能进出小区。
China Philanthropists, in an interview, found that as the number of people returning to Beijing continued to grow, the community of Tian Tong Yuan was well prepared. All residents returning to Beijing from abroad must register with the community and have their body temperature measured normally before entering or leaving the district.
登记过的来京人员发放蓝色临时出入证，14天隔离期满后换取粉色临时出入证。
Registered visitors to Beijing will be issued a temporary blue pass, which will be exchanged for a temporary pink pass after 14 days of isolation.
各主要街道上，除了戴有“昌平志愿者”红袖章的保安人员、居委会及社区工作人员外，鲜有行人。
There were few pedestrians on the main streets, except for security guards with "Changping Volunteers" red armband, neighborhood committees and community workers.
偶有从超市采购完物品回家的居民路过，也个个戴着口罩、行色匆匆。
Occasionally from the supermarket purchased goods to go home by the residents, but also wearing masks, hurry.
虽然隶属北京近郊的昌平区，但由于临近地铁、出租房源较多，天通苑成为北京外来人口最密集的地区之一。
Although it is located in Changping District near Beijing, Tian Tong Yuan has become one of the most densely populated areas in Beijing due to its proximity to the subway and the availability of rental housing.
据统计，在昌平188.9万常住人口中，回天地区（回龙观、天通苑）约86.3万。
According to statistics, out of the total resident population of 1.889 million in Changping, about 863,000 are in Huitian (Huilongguan and Tian Tong Yuan).
天通苑共有16个分区、645栋楼，常住人口近50万。
Tin Tong Court has 16 districts and 645 buildings with a resident population of nearly 500,000.
天通苑素有“睡城”之称，职（业）住（所）分离严重。
Tian Tong Yuan is known as "Sleeping City," the occupation (occupation) of the separation of serious.
昌平人力社保局与高德地图大数据分析显示，绝大多数回天地区就业人口的就业半径在10公里以上，工作地点遍布主城区。
Large-scale data analysis between Changping Manpower Social Security Bureau and Gao De map shows that the majority of the working population in the Tiananmen area has an employment radius of 10 kilometers or more.
随着返京人群不断增多，社区防控工作的重压也传导到街道、社区管理者和志愿者身上。
As the number of people returning to Beijing continues to increase, the stress of community prevention and control efforts is transmitted to the streets, community managers and volunteers.
《中国慈善家》从昌平区政府了解到，天通苑南街道社区党员干部、社工及志愿者从大年初一下午开始，便逐一查阅档案，电话联系辖区居民，重点询问是否出京，并强调出京人员返京后务必联系居委会进行登记、自觉在家隔离观察14天。
"Chinese philanthropist" from the Changping District Government, Tian Tong Yuan South Street party cadres, social workers and volunteers from the New Year's Day afternoon began to check the file, telephone contact area residents, focus on whether or not to go to Beijing, and stressed that Beijing people must contact the neighborhood committee for registration, consciously isolation observation 14 days.
除夕之前便从湖北某县返京的刘健租住在天通南苑某小区。
Before New Year's Eve, Liu Jian, who had returned to Beijing from a county in Hubei Province, rented in a district of Nanyuan.
他告诉《中国慈善家》，回来后这些天，他接到过几十个电话。
He told China Philanthropists that he had received dozens of phone calls in the days since his return.
从派出所到居委会，各部门都在询问他从哪里返京、去了哪里、目前身体状况如何等等。
From the police station to the neighborhood committee, departments were asking him where he had returned to Beijing, where he had gone, how he was doing, and so on.
为了避免麻烦，他整个假期都没怎么出门，完全靠网购囤积食物和日用品。
To avoid trouble, he spent most of his holiday shopping online, hoarding food and groceries.
一位快递小哥拿着两个手机，不停地说着。
A courier carrying two mobile phones kept talking.
小区封闭管理，快递人员不得进入，收件人只能出去小区取件。
Zone closed management, express personnel may not enter, the recipient can only go out to pick up pieces.
快递小哥说，他的工作效率从来没有这么低过。
The courier said his efficiency had never been lower.
密集的电话背后是巨大的防控压力，庞大的人口基数让工作人员应接不暇。
Behind the intense phone calls is enormous pressure to control and control, and the huge population base overwhelms the staff.
以天通苑北街道为例，该街道下辖9个社区，常住居民户数在5000户左右的超大型社区6 个，仅天通北苑第一社区常住户便有5806 户，常住人口15389 人。
Take the North Street of Tin Tung Court, for example, which has nine communities and six mega-communities with 5,000 or so permanent residents. There are 5,806 ordinary households and 15,389 permanent residents in the First Community of Tian Tong Nga Court alone.
但是党支部、居委会工作人员仅9 人，即平均一位工作人员服务645 户、2564 位居民，明显人手不足。
However, Party branches and neighborhood committees have only 9 staff members, i.e. an average of 645 households and 2,564 residents, which is clearly understaffed.
人少事多也让日常防控中的疏漏在所难免。
A small number of people also let the day-to-day control in the oversight inevitable.
据节后返京的居民小李观察，她所在单元楼门口的工作人员并没有对出入楼门的居民一一检查出入证，也没有测体温。
According to Xiao Li, a resident returning to Beijing after the festival, the staff at the gate of her apartment building did not check passes for residents entering or leaving the building and did not take temperature measurements.
小李回忆，刚回京的几天还可以闻到楼道有酒精消毒的味道，电梯里也有一次性便利贴供居民在按电梯时做防护。
Xiao Li recalled, just returned to Beijing a few days can still smell the corridor alcohol disinfection, elevator is also a one-time convenience for residents to do protection when the elevator.
但最近几天，小李发现一次性便利贴经常“断货”。
But in recent days, Xiao Li has found that one-off post-it-all often "cut off."
为弥补人手不足，昌平区疫情防控工作领导小组要求，区属部门一律下沉基层支援社区防控。
In order to make up for the shortage of personnel, Changping District epidemic prevention and control work leadership team, all the district departments to support community control.
其中，在天通苑南街道，昌平区科委便安排了党员干部、职工共40人前往天通苑第二社区协助开展疫情防控。
Among them, in Tian Tong Yuan South Street, Changping District Science and Technology Committee arranged a total of 40 Party cadres, staff and workers to the Tiantong Court Second Community to help carry out disease prevention and control.
天通苑多个小区门口都是“重兵把守”。
Tian Tong Yuan is a number of community gates are "heavily guarded."
对进出小区的人员和车辆进行严格登记管理已成为常态。
Strict registration of persons and vehicles entering and leaving the neighbourhood has become the norm.
《中国慈善家》实地走访发现，在天通苑，戴着“昌平志愿者”红袖章的志愿者大多是各个社区年龄偏大的居民以及保安，鲜有年轻人。
A field trip to China Philanthropists found that in Tian Tong Yuan, volunteers wearing the "Changping Volunteers" armband were mostly elderly residents of various communities and security guards, with few young people.
某居委会巡街的工作人员告诉记者，这些退休的大爷大妈们平时为社区做志愿服务还行，但在疫情期间其实更容易成为被传染对象。
The staff of a neighborhood patrol told reporters that the retired aunts volunteer for the community, but are more likely to become infected during the outbreak.
针对志愿者人数不足和年龄偏大的问题，天通苑社区的一些公益组织也开始通过网络在年轻居民中招募志愿者。
In response to the problem of under-representation and over-age of volunteers, some public interest organizations in the Tian Tong Yuan community have also started recruiting volunteers among young residents through the network.
业主有限参与家住天通北苑的杨川一家从春节到现在一直窝在家里，哪也没敢去。
Owner limited participation in the home Tiantong North Yuan Yang Chuan family from the Spring Festival has been in the home, where did not dare to go.
他所在的社区分成了4个管片，封锁了大部分出入口，各社区之间也禁止穿行。
His community was divided into four sections, blocking most of the entrances and crossings between the communities.
为了减少被感染的机率，居民都尽量在家“宅”着。
To reduce the risk of infection, residents try to stay at home.
杨川感觉最大的变化是，疫情发生后居委会、街道社区发动居民建立业主微信群，群里发布街道、居委会的各种信息，业主之间互相通报情况。
Yang Chuan felt the biggest change is, after the outbreak of neighborhood committees, street communities to mobilize residents to set up micro-groups of owners, the group issued a variety of street, neighborhood committee information, owners inform each other.
他觉得这次天通苑各小区、楼宇的业主群的确帮了大忙，“为什么过去没有早点建立这样一个社区互动的渠道？”住在天通中苑的小邱说，疫情发生后她所在的居委会进行了入户摸底，也建立了业主群，并把相关注意事项和进展情况在群里进行通报。
"Why wasn't such a community interactive channel established earlier?" Xiao Qiu, who lives in Tian Tong Zhongyuan, said after the outbreak, her neighborhood committee had conducted a household survey and set up a group of owners.
社区组织了送菜渠道，需要什么东西群里预定，第二日按区域配送。
The community organized the food delivery channels, what the group needs to book, the second day of distribution by region.
为了避免人员接触，购物平台新增设的无接触配送存放点。
In order to avoid personal contact, the new non-contact distribution storage site of the shopping platform.
据小邱介绍，通过微信群，业主也会互相关注左邻右舍的情况，重点关注摸底排查时标注出的出租屋，如看到外地返京人员会在群里上报，由社区去交涉。
According to Xiaoqiu, through the micro-groups, owners will also pay attention to each other's situation, focusing on the mapping marked rental housing, if the people will be reported in the group, the community to negotiate.
对于业主委员会是否在其中发挥作用，杨川和小邱等多位受访居民均表示，没有见到业主委员会的人做什么，他们甚至不知道是否有业主委员会存在。
Many residents, including Yang Chuan and Xiaoqiu, said they did not see the owners' committee and did not even know if it existed.
中国人民大学公共管理学院教授毛寿龙在接受《中国慈善家》采访时表示，以目前社区的基层组织架构，要把工作做得面面俱到是有难度的。
In an interview with China Philanthropists, Mao Shoulong, a professor at the School of Public Administration at Renmin University of China, told China Philanthropists that it would be difficult to do all the work at the grassroots level.
社区工作人员少，单靠居委会的力量是不够的。
Community workers are few and neighbourhood committees alone are not sufficient.
毛寿龙认为，对于天通苑这类租户多、人员密集的社区，业主仍然应该是小区的第一责任人，业主应该请租户作为代表，参与小区的组织管理。
The owner should still be the first person responsible for the neighbourhood in a densely populated community like Tian Tong Court. The landlord should invite the tenant to be the representative and participate in the management of the community.
从目前政府防疫工作的文件来看，没有把发动业主力量摆在很重要的位置，只看重居委会的工作。
From the current government epidemic prevention documents, do not put the mobilization of the owner of the very important position, only the work of the neighborhood committee.
实际上，政府应该倡导更多业主参与社区管理，才能做好防疫工作。
In fact, the Government should encourage more owners to participate in community management in order to do a good job in epidemic prevention.
灵活防控尺度武汉疫情暴发后，随着北京防控措施的加强，网络上也传出了天通苑1月30日后外地返京人员和车辆均不得进入社区的消息。
After the outbreak of Wuhan Flexible Prevention and Control Scale, with the strengthening of prevention and control measures in Beijing, the network also spread the message that after January 30, no foreign personnel and vehicles are allowed to enter the community.
虽然天通苑南北两街道均出面辟谣，但也反映了人们对返京潮带来的防控压力的敏感。
Though both the north and the south streets of Tian Tong Yuan have come forward to deny rumors, they also reflect people's sensitivity to the pressure of control brought back to Beijing.
一方面是流动人口多，返京人群密集的超大社区必须警惕和严控潜在病毒携带者的交叉感染，另一方面又要保证返京人群的正常流动和生活。
On the one hand, the large floating population and the super-large community must be vigilant and strict control the cross-infection of potential carriers, on the other hand, to ensure the normal flow and life of the returning population.
这对管理者来说，是两难之选。
This is a dilemma for managers.
天通东苑二区传来马达轰鸣声，透过封堵的围挡可以看到工作人员正在喷雾消毒。
The motor roared from the second district of Tung Court, Tian Tong. Staff could be seen disinfecting the spray through the blocked enclosure.
2月17日新发病例活动小区，就包括此小区。
Feb. 17 new cases of activity in the neighborhood, including this small area.
中国社科院法学研究所副研究员余少祥认为，社区是防控最重要的环节之一，社区应该掌握居民返京路线、回京后每天的行程，主动与返京居民建立联系也是必要之举。
Yu Shaoxiang, Associate Researcher at the Institute of Legal Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said that the community was one of the most important links in prevention and control.
一旦发生确诊病例，这些汇总到的信息也有助于跟踪密切接触者。
In the event of confirmed cases, the aggregated information also facilitates the tracking of close contacts.
按照北京市政府要求，2月14日起所有返京人员均应居家或集中观察14天。
According to the Beijing municipal government, all returning residents should stay at home or under intensive observation for 14 days from February 14.
在天通苑地区，已要求湖北返京人员必须先前往区级集中安置点——位于天通苑的黄河京都会议中心观察隔离，费用自理（含餐每人每天280元）。
In the area of Tian Tong Yuan, Hubei Returnees must first go to a district-level centralized resettlement site, the Kyoto Convention Center of the Yellow River in Tian Tong Yuan, at their own expense (280 yuan per person per day for meals).
社区工作人员正在向外籍人士讲解防疫注意事项。
Community workers are briefing expatriates on precautions.
中国人民大学危机管理研究中心主任唐钧对《中国慈善家》表示，天通苑这种人口密集社区和2003年SARS期间的香港淘大花园情况类似，由于环境的高风险性，疫情防控的等级自然也应该更高，属地政府应该考虑调配更高等级的资源比例来增强防控措施。
Tian Tong Yuan, director of the Center for Crisis Management Studies at Renmin University of China, told China Philanthropists that Tian Tong Yuan, a densely populated community like Hong Kong Taobao Gardens during SARS in 2003, should naturally be ranked higher due to high environmental risks. Territorial governments should consider allocating higher proportions of resources to strengthen control measures.
唐钧同时表示，随着时间推移，疫情风险程度降低之后，则需要考虑在风险管控和社会治理常态化、人性化之间求得平衡，以保证社会秩序的正常运行。
Tang said that as the risk level of the epidemic decreased over time, consideration would need to be given to striking a balance between the normalization and humanization of risk management and social governance in order to ensure the normal functioning of social order.
摄影：张旭值班编辑：冯超封面报道之三《武汉攻坚——我们如何与疫情赛跑》（由5篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
Zhang Zhaoxu, editor-in-charge: Feng Chao-cover story No. 3 Wuhan Jianzheng - How We Run Against the Outbreak (composed of five stories) Click below to place an order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
天通苑：“亚洲最大社区”的疫情防控难题。
Tian Tong Yuan: Prevention and Control Problem of "Asia's Largest Community"
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "天通苑：“亚洲最大社区”的疫情防控难题";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "近50万人的社区防疫战，流动人口密集与社会治理下沉之困";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
