看不见的“中国瘟疫史”。
An Invisible History of the Chinese Plague.
赵小薇。
Zhao Xiaowei.
物质生活参考                      。
Material life reference.
物质生活参考。
Material life reference.
多美好啊，这尘世的生活。
What a beautiful life, life on earth.
。
.
点击上方物质生活参考加星标！物质生活参考作者：赵小薇来源：物质生活参考（ID：wzshck）01.第一次对“黑死病”三个字有直观了解，是在维也纳市中心的格拉本步行街上。
2007-3-1 15: 55 [hide] http: / / www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cn01 For the first time there is a visual understanding of the words "the Black Death" on Graben Street in central Vienna.
一根白色纪念柱立于最繁华的街巷中央，巴洛克风格精妙繁复的浮雕，在林立的各色精品店铺之间，毫无逊色之意。
A white monument in the middle of the most prosperous streets, baroque style complex relief, among the various boutiques, no less than the meaning.
如果不是查阅资料，很难想象这一浪漫华美的高大立柱，是为纪念死于残酷疫情的维也纳人而立。
It would have been hard to imagine this tall, magnificent, romantic column standing in memory of the Viennese who died of a brutal epidemic.
1679年，黑死病席卷维也纳，夺去了城市中几乎三分之二人的生命。
In 1679, the Black Death swept through Vienna, killing almost two-thirds of the city's population.
出生于维也纳的神圣罗马帝国皇帝利奥波德一世，决定修建一座纪念柱为臣民祈福。
Emperor Leopold I of the Holy Roman Empire, born in Vienna, decided to build a monument to bless his people.
纪念柱为大理石质地，中间层雕刻的，是半跪在地上、摘下皇冠为民祈福的利奥波德一世；其上为金光闪耀的圣三位一体像，其下是一群天使立于云端。
The monument is marble in texture, carved in the middle, is half kneeling on the ground, take off the crown for the people's blessing of Leopold I; above it is the golden trinity, and below is a flock of angels standing in the clouds.
颇具戏剧性的一幕是，一位天使正将女巫推向地狱，女巫所映射的，是使无数人丧命的鼠疫。
In a dramatic scene, an angel pushes an enchantress into hell, a witch mapping plague that kills countless people.
此后，我又在捷克的ck小城，匈牙利的布达佩斯，以及斯洛伐克的首都布拉迪斯拉发等地见过为黑死病而立的纪念柱或纪念碑。
Since then, I have seen monuments or monuments to the Black Death in places like the Czech town of CK, Budapest, Hungary, and Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia.
它们或是融入繁华街巷之中，或是矗立于热闹广场之上，游客偶尔流连于此，驻足拍照，更多的是当地人，坐在台阶下或雕塑旁，歇脚、聊天、谈情，吃刚从便利店买来的午餐。
They blend into busy streets or stand on busy squares, where tourists occasionally stop to take photos, more local people, sit on steps or beside sculptures, stop to talk, talk, have lunch from a convenience store.
对于外来客而言，这一场景的反差稍显强烈。
For outsiders, the contrast is slightly more stark.
黑死病，即鼠疫，人类历史上最严重瘟疫之一。
The Black Death, or plague, is one of the worst plagues in human history.
一旦染病，患者皮肤就会出现许多黑斑，治愈毫无可能，死亡过程非常痛苦。
Once infected, the patient's skin will appear many black spots, a cure is impossible, the death process is very painful.
格拉本大街纪念柱的底座上，除了常见的圣经故事，也雕刻着民众在疫病中挣扎的场景，染病、哭泣、死亡、送葬……画面真实而具体，画中人沉浸于对疾病无能为力的哀痛之中，白色大理石上写满灰暗和绝望；而在这线条之下，就是拥挤人群的熙来攘往，是露天咖啡的热闹嘈杂，是喧嚣和生机。
On the pedestal of the Graben Street monument, in addition to the usual biblical stories, there are scenes of people struggling with disease, sobbing, dying, and being buried... The picture is real and concrete, with the white marble crammed with gray and despair, and beneath it the bustle and bustle of open-air coffee, the noise and vitality.
劝诫与警示，自然融入到一个城市的生活之中。
Admonish and admonish with admonition, natural blend into the life of a city.
时空交错间，生与死，痛与乐，都很鲜活。
Time and space stagger, life and death, pain and joy, are very fresh.
02.发生于维也纳的这场黑死病，可以看作是中世纪大瘟疫的余波。
2. The Black Death in Vienna can be seen as a relic of the plague of the Middle Ages.
这场席卷中世纪欧洲的劫难爆发于1437年，此后四百余年间，因此丧生者多达7500万至2亿。
The catastrophe that engulfed medieval Europe took place in 1437 and has since claimed between 75 million and 200 million lives over a period of more than 400 years.
仅1347年至1353年间，黑死病就夺走了2500万欧洲人的性命，占当时欧洲总人口的三分之一。
Between 1347 and 1353 alone, the Black Death claimed the lives of 25 million Europeans, a third of Europe's population.
每三个人中就有一个人死于非命。
One out of every three people dies.
生存于死亡阴影笼罩之中的艺术家，不免将这一时代特质投射至作品之上。
Artists living in the shadow of death inevitably project the qualities of the age onto their works.
因而，行走于欧洲的美术馆、博物馆乃至教堂、公墓之中，常常能与这一恐怖事件的“亡魂”不期而遇。
Therefore, walking in European art galleries, museums and even churches, cemeteries, often with this terrorist incident "dead" encountered unexpectedly.
教堂里手持镰刀，收割生命的死神像，置于棺木之上肉体糜烂、骨架凸显的的尸体雕塑，在某种意义上，这些作品与纪念柱一样，都是黑暗时代生死记录。
The church holds a sickle and reaps the deities of life, carnal erosions and skeletal carcasses above coffins, which, like monuments, are records of the dark ages of life and death.
画作更为常见。
Paintings are more common.
西班牙普拉多博物馆中，有尼德兰画家老彼得·勃鲁盖尔的作品：《死亡的胜利》。
In the Prado museum in Spain, there is the work of the artist Peter Breguerre, Senior of Nederland: Victory of Death.
这幅绘制于1562年的油画，就是以骷髅亡灵军团的隐喻，记录了这次中断了人类历史进程的黑死病瘟疫。
This painting, painted in 1562, depicts the plague of the Black Death, which interrupted the course of human history, in the metaphor of the Skeleton Necropolis.
画面之中，死神化身成骷髅，以棺材为盾牌，阵势浩荡地向世间血肉之躯发起进攻。
In the picture, death incarnate into a skeleton, using the coffin as a shield, the battle against the flesh and blood of the world.
被收割的头颅塞满马车，尚未死去的或已被砍倒，或面临斩首，或挣命逃窜。
The harvested head is crammed with carriages, not yet dead or cut down, facing beheading, or fleeing for life.
张皇的红衣贵妇陷入骷髅魔爪，而她身前，还有宴席与纸牌——在灾难来临之前，人类沉迷于享乐，一无所知。
Zhang Huang's lady in red fell into the claws of a skeleton, and she was in front of her, with banquets and cards - human indulgence in pleasure and ignorance before the disaster struck.
无论是热恋中的情侣，衣着光鲜的富人，还是全副武装的骑士，在骷髅军团的杀戮下皆毫无退路可言。
Lovers in love, well-dressed rich men, or armed knights have no way out of the Skull Legion's killing.
如同瘟疫面前众生平等，国王或贫民，都无法逃脱死亡的厄运。
Just as all men are equal before pestilence, neither the king nor the poor can escape death.
同样的死亡命题，同样受十四世纪大瘟疫影响，这幅画或可看作画家对其极为推崇的博斯的一种致敬。
The same proposition of death, similarly affected by the great plague of the fourteenth century, may be regarded as a tribute by the painter to Bos, whom he highly esteemed.
博斯的名作《人间乐园》也收藏在普拉多，三联画中最右一幅，是画家以荒诞的笔触描画的地狱图景。
Boss's masterpiece, Paradise on Earth, is also collected in Prado, the most right of the trio, is the artist's grotesque portrait of Hell.
即便是今日，博斯画作中的场景依旧充满讽刺意味，纵然脑洞奇大荒诞无稽，也可与现实无缝对接。
Even today, the scenes in Boss's paintings are ironic, and even the grotesque absurdity of the brain can seamlessly connect with reality.
地狱之中，人类自食恶果，成为被动物捉弄、虐待的对象。
In hell, the human self-inflicted harm, become the animal tease, the object of abuse.
趾高气昂的鸟吃掉人类，又将其排泄出去，如同对贪婪的隐喻，也是对乐于置一切生物于死地的人性的极致嘲讽。
It is a metaphor for greed, and a mockery of human nature, which delights in the death of all living creatures.
这幅诡谲之作前，常常伫立着大量观赏者。
Before this treacherous work, large crowds of spectators often stood.
相对于以神谕和天使慰藉人心的宗教画，辛辣且怪异的嘲讽之作，明显更对现代人胃口。
Compared with the oracle and the angel consolation religious painting, acrimonious and strange ironical work, obviously more to modern people's appetite.
03.事实上，大规模侵袭过欧洲的瘟疫灾难，并非只有绵延于中世纪的这一起；而艺术家对于疫情的表现形式，也不仅仅映射于死亡与地狱之间。
3. In fact, the plague that ravaged Europe on a massive scale did not extend only to the Middle Ages; nor did the artist map the manifestation of the epidemic to death and hell alone.
宗教画是常见的一种。
Religious painting is a common type.
在医学尚不发达的时代，神的形象成了人们在逃亡途中对付疾病的第一道防线。
In an age of underdeveloped medicine, the image of God became the first line of defense against disease on the run.
如同欧洲各地的黑死病纪念柱，天使、圣人成为救赎的元素。
Like the Black Death Column throughout Europe, angels and saints became elements of salvation.
《被瘟疫侵袭的罗马城》，撷取的即是圣徒塞巴斯蒂安殉道故事中的场景，天使挥动翅膀，墙下尸横遍地。
The Plague-struck City of Rome captures scenes from a saintly Sebastian story of martyrdom, with angels wagging their wings and corpses lying under the walls.
这一画作所展现的，是爆发于公元6世纪东罗马帝国的“查士丁尼瘟疫”，这场瘟疫，也被史学家视作“人类历史上第一场重大鼠疫”。
The painting shows the plague of Justinian, which broke out in the Eastern Roman Empire in the 6th century and is also considered by historians to be "the first major plague in human history."
这场惨剧之中，君士坦丁堡在三月之内，每日死亡超过5000人，查士丁尼的帝国统一之梦，也就此破灭。
In the midst of this tragedy, Constantinople died more than 5,000 people a day in March, and Justinian's dream of empire was shattered.
顺便说一句，疫情初期，查士丁尼正在地中海一带御驾亲征，为了不扫兴，帝国官员们选择了瞒报，直至事态失控。
Incidentally, in the early days of the epidemic, Justinian was on his way to the Mediterranean, and Imperial officials chose to keep things secret until things got out of hand.
或者因为信仰隔阂，相对于圣光笼罩的宗教画，那些如新闻报道般重现当时惨象的写实画作，往往更令我感到惊心动魄，虽然很长一段时间内，创作出此等作品的画家，曾因违拗教会“颂扬希望，避免恐惧”的宗旨而遭到排斥。
Or because of the faith gap, I am often even more appalled by the reappearance, like news reports, of realistic paintings of the time, as opposed to the shrouded in holy light, although for a long time the painters who created them were ostracized by the perverse Church's aim of "extolling hope and avoiding fear."
戈雅的《瘟疫医院》中，幽微的日光艰难地从唯一的窗口射入，却难以点亮患者所陷入的黑暗。
In Goya's Plague Hospital, the faint light of day glows painfully through the only window, but hardly illuminates the darkness into which the patient falls.
饱满的哀伤从画面流淌而出，在真实的场景描绘下，画面朦胧，绝望与无奈却分外清晰。
Full of sadness from the screen flow out, in the real scene depiction, the picture is hazy, despair and helplessness but very clear.
1918到1919年间，西班牙流感横扫世界，夺去超过5000万人的生命。
Between 1918 and 1919, the Spanish flu swept through the world, killing more than 50 million people.
挪威画家爱德华·蒙克，是幸存者中的一个。
Norwegian painter Edward Monk was one of the survivors.
瘟疫的痕迹留在他的画作之中，1919年，蒙克创作了《西班牙流感后的自画像》，虚弱的恢复者双腮塌陷，但画面色调温暖，像一场与死亡的作别。
Traces of the plague remain in his paintings, and in 1919 Monk wrote "A Self-portrait of Spain after Influenza," in which the faint recoverer's cheeks collapsed, but the scene was warm, like a farewell to death.
关于瘟疫的艺术记录，最令我感到惊讶的，是在东京太田美术馆见到的一幅浮世绘。
What surprises me most about the artistic record of the plague is a floating painting I saw at the Taeda Gallery in Tokyo.
画面上，吃了会感染霍乱的海鲜军团，正和吃了能预防霍乱的蔬菜军团展开激烈争斗，不仅如此，各自阵营中的出战选手都被认认真真起了名字，比如辣椒是唐辛四郎，山芋叫芋头山十八，螃蟹是海底泡之助，鲶鱼则被称为鲶太郎……这幅军团混战图为江户末期画师歌川广景于1859年所绘，描绘的是此前一年发生的安政霍乱。
In addition to eating the cholera-infected Seafood Legion, fighting a fierce battle with the Vegetable Legion, which is protected against cholera, the fighters in each camp are known as Siro Tang, Yamato is called Taro Mountain XVIII, Crab is underwater bubble, catfish in 1859, describes the end of Edo artist Song Chuan Guang painting in 1859, depicting a cholera.
这场霍乱持续三年，仅江户死亡人数，就达3万人。
The cholera epidemic lasted for three years, killing 30,000 people in Edo alone.
真正令我吃惊的，不仅仅是脑洞大开的离奇场景、神似植物大战僵尸的趣味画面，而是日本画师对于瘟疫事件的表现。
What really surprised me was not just the bizarre scenes of a brain opening, the spice of a botanical zombie apocalypse, but the Japanese artist's response to the plague.
在此之前，与瘟疫相关的艺术作品，我似乎只在西方得见。
Before that, I only seem to see works of art related to plagues in the West.
04.那么，中国呢？搜寻记忆，国内的博物馆、美术馆中，关于灾难的传世之作，印象中只有前些年国博展出的蒋兆和的《流民图》。
What about China? Looking for memories, museums and galleries around the country, the only images of disaster left in mind are Jiang Zhaohe's Map of Displaced Persons, which was exhibited at the national exhibition in previous years.
至于关于瘟疫的作品，则全无印象。
As for the pestilence, there was no impression at all.
查阅资料可见，中国绘画史上关于灾难的作品少之又少，只有屈指可数的几幅《流民图》，而难得的描画蝗灾的《捕蝗图》上，展现的也并非飞蝗侵袭田地的惨状，而是百官庆祝捕蝗战绩的欢腾场景。
There are only a handful of maps of displaced persons in the history of Chinese painting. The rare locust scene depicts not locusts invading the fields, but the jubilant scenes of locust hunting.
甚至有人因此写文章，一本正经地宣称中国自古少瘟疫，并将其归功于讲卫生、信中医，甚至是爱喝茶。
Some even wrote about it, solemnly proclaiming that China has had fewer epidemics since ancient times, attributing it to hygiene, traditional Chinese medicine and even tea.
追溯中国瘟疫史，其频发程度、惨烈状况，足以令人震颤。
Retrospective Chinese pestilence history, its frequency, brutal condition, enough to make people tremble.
仅就鼠疫来说，史学家一般认为，人类历史上共有三次大规模鼠疫爆发，除前文提过的查士丁尼瘟疫、中世纪大瘟疫，第三次，就爆发在太平天国时期的中国云南。
In the case of plague alone, historians generally believe that there have been three large-scale outbreaks of plague in human history, except for the Justinian plague mentioned earlier, the medieval plague, and the third in the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom period in Yunnan, China.
也有人将明末崇祯年间的鼠疫视为中世纪黑死病的延续，据《崇祯实录》记载：“京师大疫，死亡日以万计。
Some people regarded the plague as a continuation of the medieval plague, recorded in Chongzhen Record: "Beijing master plague, the death of the tens of thousands.
”除此之外，《后汉书》记载了重大瘟疫14次；唐朝关于瘟疫的记录中，255年间共爆发疫情21次；北宋的168年间至少发生了59次疫灾，南宋仅都城临安一地，就曾在152年间遭遇15次大瘟疫侵袭......而在过去百余年间，就曾有1895年京师直隶大疫、1902年黑龙江瑷珲霍乱、1910年东北鼠疫三次重大疫情。
In addition, the Book of the Han Dynasty recorded 14 major plagues; the plague records of the Tang Dynasty showed 21 outbreaks in 255 years; the Northern Song Dynasty had at least 59 epidemics in 168 years.
据《医史文献》记载，1232年河南疫情，不到50天死亡9万人；1358年，山西、河北死亡人数超过20万；1772年云南鼠疫，死亡人数25.3万......以上种种，我们却极少在流传的艺术作品中得见。
According to medical history documents, in 1232, 90,000 people died in Henan Province in less than 50 days; in 1358, more than 200,000 people died in Shanxi and Hebei; and in 1772, 253,000 people died in Yunnan plague.
宣称“中国少瘟疫”者或者各怀目的，但中国艺术史对于瘟疫的缺席，却是不争的事实。
Those who claim that China has fewer plagues may have different purposes, but the absence of plague in Chinese art history is an indisputable fact.
灾难场景成为艺术的敏感区，美术史论家贺疆认为，某种程度上，这源于东西方文化的差异。
The disaster scene becomes the sensitive area of art, art historian He Xian thinks, to a certain extent, this originates from the difference between East and West culture.
相对于西方对死亡的直面，东方人更为含蓄，更乐意在苦难中寻求灵光，一方面看是生的希望，另一方面则是回避人性的弱点。
Easterners are more reserved and more willing to seek the light of suffering than the Western face of death, seeing on the one hand the promise of life and on the other the avoidance of human frailty.
同样，艺术家们的艺术观和社会价值观，也影响着对于灾难的表现。
Similarly, artists' views of art and social values also influence the performance of disasters.
纵观中国绘画史上的作品，反映的多为吉祥和乐，鲜有大灾难题材之作。
Throughout the history of Chinese painting, most of the works reflect auspiciousness and music, few of the major disaster themes.
宫廷画院喜花鸟繁华，文人精英爱自喻自省，对于瘟疫灾荒的描绘，从来不在他们的喜好之中。
Palace paintings like flowers and birds flourishing, the literary elite love self-introspection, the plague famine of the description, never in their preferences.
近年来，一些中国艺术家开始就灾难展开创作；此次新冠疫情，也有人提议，在华南海鲜市场处立雕塑，以作永久警示和纪念。
In recent years, some Chinese artists have begun to write about the disaster; this time around, it has been suggested that a sculpture be set up at the South China Seafood Market as a permanent reminder and remembrance.
但在贺疆看来，艺术家的价值取向、胸襟视野、思想境界和文化结构，极大地影响着作品的表现力与生命力。
However, in his view, the artist's value orientation, mind-scope, ideological realm and cultural structure greatly affect the expressive force and vitality of his works.
“疫情让人类反思，只有从骨子里反思，反思无休止的贪欲，反思人性之恶，大情怀大悲悯才有可能产生传世之作。
"The epidemic has made humanity reflect, and it is only through introspection, introspection of unending greed, reflection on the evils of humanity, and great compassion that it is possible to produce a masterpiece.
”她说。
'she said.
参考资料：1.《未来简史》，作者：尤瓦尔·赫拉利，中信出版社，2017年1月；2.《艺术与灾难》，来源：瀚望艺术网，2020年1月29日；3.《维也纳“黑死病”纪念柱铭刻历史》，来源：环球网，2020年2月18日；4.《好一场浮世绘瘟疫大战，暗藏着什么政治嘲讽？》，作者：spRachel，来源：1DayStand，2020年2月11日；5.《灾难之后，艺术家的集体沉默是另一种文化灾难》，来源:凤凰文化《洞见》栏目，2015年9月7日。
Reference: 1. A Brief History of the Future, by Yuval Herali, Citic Press, January 2017; 2. Art and Disasters, source: Hanwang Art Network, 29 January 2020; 3. World Wide Web, 18 February 2020; 4. "What kind of political mockery is the collective silence of artists in the wake of a disaster," in: Phoenix Culture "Insight," 7 September 2015.
图片源自视频截图及网络△长按二维码，添加物质生活君微信，回复“粉丝”，进入物质生活粉丝群，获取独家优质生活参考。
Video screenshots and network?? s?? press two-dimensional code, add material life gentleman letter, reply "fan", enter material life fan group, get exclusive quality life reference.
= 推荐阅读=被偏爱的宋康昊的一生超长带娃期，被迫”升级打怪“的父母们历史上，那些带着致命病毒的船舶-END-。
recommended = favored life of Song Kang Hao super long period of time, forced to "upgrade monster" parents history, those carrying the deadly virus - END-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
看不见的“中国瘟疫史”。
An Invisible History of the Chinese Plague.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "艺术文化";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; arts, culture;;;
var nickname = "物质生活参考";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; material life reference;
var msg_title = "看不见的“中国瘟疫史”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; invisible & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“中国少瘟疫”？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '被偏爱的宋康昊的一生',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '物质生活参考',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '超长带娃期，被迫“升级打怪”的父母们',。
AT RATE & amp; EXPLOITATION & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '物质生活参考',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '历史上，那些带着致命病毒的船舶',。
Ritual: & aposs; Historically, those carrying the deadly virus have AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '物质生活参考',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="物质生活参考";。
Valle title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; material life reference;
