“猎毒者”：上海“一号病人”流调的背后。
"The Hunter": Behind the Shift of "Patient One" in Shanghai.
应琛。
Yingchen.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
很多时候，流调人员不像医生，患者会主动尽可能多地给医生提供有用信息。
In many cases, instead of being a doctor, patients volunteer to provide as much useful information as possible to their doctor.
流调人员说，希望市民在经历过疫情之后，能够了解到流调的重要性，为他们将来的工作提供更多便利。
"We hope the public will understand the importance of migration after they have experienced the epidemic and facilitate their future work," they said.
记者 | 应　琛当大家对新冠肺炎“零号病人”议论纷纷之时，近日，上海的“一号病人”揭开了神秘的面纱。
As debate raged over New Crown Pneumonia's patient zero, Shanghai's Patient # 1 has lifted the veil of mystery recently.
经报道，1月16日傍晚5时，上海市疾控中心的电话响起。
It is reported that on January 16 at 5 p.m., the Shanghai CDC phone rang.
电话来自长宁区疾控中心，长宁区某医院，有一位武汉过来的病人，高度疑似新冠肺炎。
The phone came from the CDC in Changning District, a hospital in Changning District, a patient from Wuhan, a high-suspected new crown pneumonia.
上海市疾病控制中心传染病防治所急传科的二位医师赶到医院的发热门诊后，一边等待核酸检测结果，一边开始了紧张的流调工作。
Two doctors from the Emergency Department of the Shanghai Centers for Disease Control and Prevention arrived at the hospital's fever clinic, waiting for the nucleic acid test results, and began an intense reassignment exercise.
让流调人员欣慰的是，上海第一位确诊病人非常配合，到了上海后没有去过其他地方，密切接触者只有女儿和女婿，到医院就诊也是女儿家里开车来的，没有涉及公共交通。
To the relief of the transferees, the first confirmed patient in Shanghai was very cooperative and had not been to any other place since arriving in Shanghai. The only people in close contact were daughters and sons-in-law.
1月20日，经过国家复核确认了本市第一例新冠病人。
On 20 January, a State review confirmed the city's first new patient.
用上海市疾控中心新冠肺炎防控现场工作组副组长潘浩的话来说，流调的作用就是控制增量。
In the words of Pan Hao, vice-chairman of the Shanghai CDC's New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Team, the role of diversion is to control increments.
流调，即流行病学调查，就是通过抽丝剥茧式的调查询问，透过纷繁复杂的生活轨迹，探索传染的来龙去脉，将一个个看似毫不关联的片段，串成一条条紧密连接的传染链条，然后通过隔离传染源，切断传播途径等措施，保护易感人群。
The epidemiological investigation is to protect the vulnerable population by isolating the source of infection, cutting off the transmission route, etc., by means of a cocoon-like investigation that explores the context of infection through the intricacies of life, stringing seemingly unrelated fragments into tightly linked chains of transmission.
同时，流调也为判定病例的感染来源和密切接触者提供了依据。
It also provides a basis for determining the source of infection and close contacts in a case.
凡是经医院初步认定的疑似患者，流调人员必须第一时间介入，即便最终发现是 “虚惊一场”。
After the hospital initial identification of suspected patients, the transfer of personnel must first intervene, even if the final discovery is "false alarm."
因此，有网友给流调员们取了一个酷酷的别称：猎毒者。
As a result, some netizens have given stream dispatchers a cool nickname: poacher.
事实上，正是有了流调人员对上海2500多位疑似新冠肺炎病人进行的深入流调、调查，以及排摸可能感染的蛛丝马迹和传播方式，在第一时间隔离传染源、切断传播途径，尽可能控制了新冠病毒这个“星星之火”。
Indeed, it is the transfer of personnel to more than 2,500 suspected cases of pneumonia in Shanghai, investigation, as well as the detection of possible infection traces and transmission patterns, isolation of the source of infection at the first time, the cutting off of transmission channels, as much as possible to control the new crown virus.
值得一提的是，在上海至今为止的330多例确诊病例中，有三分之一是在密切接触者中确诊。
It is worth mentioning that, of the more than 330 confirmed cases in Shanghai so far, one third have been diagnosed in close contact.
这也从侧面印证了流调的重要性，以及上海的防控是切实有效的。
This also from the side confirmed the importance of the transfer, and Shanghai's prevention and control is effective.
帮助患者寻找回忆，补齐时间线“我们的手机是24小时不能关的，随时待命准备去现场调查。
Help patients find memories and make up the timeline Our cell phones are available 24 hours a day, ready for on-site investigation.
轮到备班的晚上，更是不能深睡。
When it is my turn to prepare for work, I cannot sleep deeply.
半夜被电话惊醒的情况也不在少数。
Many people wake up in the middle of the night.
”1990年出生的马兆骧这样形容流调队员们的工作节奏。
Mr. Ma, born in 1990, Mr. Ma Sheung described the pace of the players' work.
马兆骧是静安区疾控中心急性传染病防治科的科员，此次疫情防控工作开展以后，身处急传科的他自然成为流调队第一梯队的成员。
Mr. Ma Sheung is a member of the Acute Infectious Diseases Section of the CDC in the Jing'an District.
“这次是我工作以来第一次经历的重大疫情，虽然平时工作也积累了些经验，但说实话心里还是有点紧张的。
"This is the first major epidemic I've experienced since I started working, and although I've gained some experience working on a regular basis, I'm a little nervous to be honest.
工作中，我会不停地提醒自己要细致，不要出错，也要在患者的面前展现出自己的专业性。
At work, I will constantly remind myself to be meticulous, do not make mistakes, but also in front of patients to show their professionalism.
”马兆骧告诉《新民周刊》记者，如果遇到棘手的问题，他也会及时向有经验的同事讨教。
Mr. Ma told Newsweek that he would also seek timely advice from experienced colleagues if confronted with tough questions.
静安区疾控中心工作人员在现场开展流调工作某日17时左右，临近下班的马兆骧接到了区内某医院打来的电话，说接诊到一位新冠肺炎疑似病例。
Quiet An CDC staff on the scene to carry out the transfer at around 17: 00 one day, near work Ma ZhaoSheung received a call from a hospital in the region, said a suspected case of new crown pneumonia was admitted.
来不及吃饭的他立刻检查了一下流调装备——防护用品、流调表、采样试管、消毒用品等，便与同事赶往医院。
Without time to eat, he checked the equipment - protective equipment, flow meters, test tubes, disinfection supplies, and so on - and rushed to the hospital with his colleagues.
流调的目的是要回答“病人在哪里被谁或通过什么途径感染”“可能与其接触的密切接触者有哪些人”这两个关键问题。
The purpose of the transfer is to answer the key questions of "where, by whom, and by whom" "Who are the people in close contact with whom the patient may be in contact."
因此，调查中，流调人员要做到尽量细致。
Therefore, the investigation, the transfer of personnel to do as detailed as possible.
疑似患者发病前14天去过哪里、密切接触过哪些人、乘坐的交通工具的班次等，这些信息了解得能多详细就要多详细。
The details of where the suspected patient went 14 days before the onset of the disease, who he was in close contact with, and the frequency of the transport used, are known in more detail.
“但我当时碰到的这个上海老太太相当的自信，因为没有武汉旅行史，也没有相关接触史，觉得自己不会得病。
"But the Shanghai woman I met was quite confident because she had no Wuhan travel history and no history of contact and felt that she would not get sick.
在面对我们的流调时，很长时间是在抱怨，回答也是相当敷衍。
In the face of our turnover, a long time is complaining, the answer is quite perfunctory.
”马兆骧回忆道，他只能一边安抚，一边尽可能梳理出有用的信息，“但第一次的交谈，其实不算太成功，得到的有用信息很少。
Mr. Ma recalled that he had to soothe and carve out as much useful information as possible, 'but the first conversation wasn't really very successful and it got very little useful information.
只知道，她去过两家医院检查，还和女儿一家吃过年夜饭。
All she knew was that she had been to two hospitals and had dinner with her daughter's family.
”马兆骧告诉记者，当他们联系老太太女儿时对方也是相当警惕，第一次电话，甚至连名字和地址都不愿告知，“她们电话会接，但就沉默不愿意多说。
Mr. Ma told reporters that Mr. Ma told reporters the pair were also wary of contacting the old lady's daughter, who declined to be told on the first call, even her name and address.
她女儿还很担心我们会上门，不想让邻居指指点点，说她们还要在这里住很长时间的”。
"Her daughter was also worried that we would come to the house and not want our neighbors to point out that they were going to stay long.
马兆骧在做电话流调但第二天，老太太的检测结果呈阳性，她被确诊得了新冠肺炎。
Mr. Ma Sheung was making a phone call but the next day, the old lady tested positive and was diagnosed with pneumonia.
当老太太得知这一结果时，抱怨更多变成了担心。
When the old lady learned of the result, the complaints became more of a worry.
马兆骧在第二次与她沟通的时候，首先安抚了她的情绪，然后告诉她事情的严重性。
Mr. Ma, in a second communication with her, first calmed her mood and then told her the seriousness of the matter.
这一次，老太太配合多了，说了两家外区医院的名字和当时看的科室。
This time, the old lady to cooperate more, said the names of the two hospitals and looked at the department at the time.
“我们当时怀疑她在就医过程中感染的可能性很大，但后来经过市里的帮忙，我们把这个可能性排除了。
"We suspected there was a high risk of infection during treatment, but with the help of the city we ruled it out.
”马兆骧说，为了找到老太太的感染源，他再一次给她打了电话。
Mr. Ma said he called her again to find the source of the infection.
由于时间太久，老太太很多细节都记不太清。
It was too long for the old lady to remember many details.
马兆骧陪着她一天天的回忆，甚至精确到了几点几分。
Mr. Ma Sianxiang accompanied her day-to-day memories, even accurate to a few minutes.
因此一次流调，通常花上两个小时都不算长。
So it usually takes up to two hours for a single shift.
终于，老太太回忆起，自己曾经有一次和女儿到过一个交易中心。
Finally, the old lady remembered that she had once been to a trading center with her daughter.
“之后我们通过引导其女儿，进一步联系与患者交易的对方得知，当天与他们交易的对方是被确诊的病例。
"We then got to know from the people who had been talking to them that the person they were dealing with that day was a confirmed case," she said.
”马兆骧表示，这下总算弄清楚了老太太的感染来源，流调才算完成。
Mr. Ma said Mr. Ma said the move was completed after Mr. Ma finally determined the source of the old lady's infection.
希望患者更多的配合如果碰到记不清的患者还能慢慢引导回忆，那碰到有意隐瞒的患者，只能通过流调人员的观察和沟通来实现突破。
Hope that patients more cooperation if the patients do not remember can slowly guide memories, then encounter deliberately hidden patients, only through the observation and communication of transfer personnel to achieve a breakthrough.
静安区疾控中心食品营养卫生科科长陈毅琼在此次疫情中是支援流调组的一员。
Chen Yiqiong, chief of the food and nutrition health section of the Jing'an CDC, was a member of the support flow control team.
在她碰到的案例中，她发现很多患者在讲述自己或者自己亲人的活动时，出于保护他们的目的，都会说得比较详细，“但一旦涉及到朋友，或远亲，出于各种顾虑，很多人就比较含糊”。
In many of the cases she encountered, patients described their activities or those of their loved ones in greater detail for their own protection. "But when it comes to friends or distant relatives, a lot of people are vague," she said.
陈毅琼清楚地记得，她在做流调时碰到过一个刚退休的阿姨。
Chen Yi Qiong vividly remembers that she met an aunt who had just retired when she was doing the transfer.
阿姨在陈毅琼的引导下非常配合地讲述了自己的行动轨迹，但当陈毅琼追问她具体某几个空白的时间段时，阿姨就开始含糊其辞。
Auntie Chen Yi Qiong under the guidance of a very cooperative account of their own track, but when Chen Yi Qiong asked her specific gaps in the time, aunt began to mumble.
陈毅琼在做电话流调中几经追问，再加上从阿姨儿子那里旁敲侧击，陈毅琼得知，阿姨原来是约了几个小姐妹聚餐。
Chen Yi-qiong in the telephone flow in a number of cross-examination, plus from aunt and son from the side-knock, Chen Yi-Joan learned that aunt is originally about a few small sisters to have dinner.
“这些小姐妹，可能有的也不是很熟悉，就是平时买菜或者跳广场舞认识的，所以阿姨比较顾忌。
"These little sisters, some may not be very familiar, is usually to buy vegetables or dance in the square known, so auntie more scruple.
通过给阿姨做思想工作，我们终于得到了其中一个小姐妹的联系方式，又通过她，我们才对所有人完成了追踪。
By doing ideological work for our aunt, we finally got the contact information of one of the little sisters, and through her, we were able to track all of them.
”陈毅琼表示。
Mr Chen said.
在陈毅琼看来，拉家常是一个很快与对方熟络并获得信任的方式，在让对方回忆之前，她自己首先会回忆一遍那天的细节，“如果是下雨天，我会提醒对方，那天好像是下雨天，你有没有叫过外卖或者出门拿过快递。
In Chen's view, the family is often a way to get to know each other quickly and gain trust. Before she can recall, she recalls the details of the day first.
”静安区疾控中心急性传染病防治科科长李恩国在审核信息流调人员有自己的工作准则，更确切地说是使命。
Li Enguo, chief of the acute infectious diseases section of the Jing'an CDC, has his own guidelines, or rather a mission, for vetting information flow controllers.
从接到医院通知一刻算起，第一时间要出具初次调查的报告，几乎没有商量的余地。
From the moment of receiving the notification from the hospital, the first time to issue a report of the initial investigation, there is little room for consultation.
因为晚一分钟，病毒便会在不具名的地方多“逍遥”一分钟。
Because a minute later, the virus will be unnamed in the place "free and unfettered" one minute.
很多时候，流调人员不像医生，患者会主动尽可能多地给医生提供有用信息。
In many cases, instead of being a doctor, patients volunteer to provide as much useful information as possible to their doctor.
“而我们是被动去问，只有自己想得越多，流调时才能问得越细。
"But we are passive to ask, only their own thinking more, the more detail can be asked when the flow.
”陈毅琼表示，也希望市民在经历过疫情之后，能够了解到流调的重要性，为他们将来的工作提供更多便利。
Ms Chen said she also hoped citizens who had experienced the outbreak would understand the importance of the shift and make it easier for them to work in the future.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：shewen-2020周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong✳如你需要捐赠物资，可与以下两位工作人员联系:王勇：WangYong-SH吴轶君：rommy150708（添加时请注明“捐物资”，方便工作人员快速通过您的申请，谢谢。
WangYong-SH micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signaling: Zhou Jie micro-signals: kbx875055141 Friday: kbx875055141 If you need a donation, please contact: Wang Yong-SH micro-signaling: kbx875055141 Sunday: Wu Xue micro-signal: JiangHao Feng micro-signal: www.jinggeladandong: www.youtheme.cn
）新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
) News is the manuscript of history, and you are witnesses to it.
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·军事 | 台军在金门集结实弹射击，呵呵……·口述实录 | 老婆，对不起了，我这辆车只能接送医生护士·口述实录 | 华人医生留守家乡参战：80岁的母亲流着泪同意我加入专家组新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Why don't we all try to collect these live ammunition at Golden Gate? Wife, I'm sorry, but my 80-year-old mother agreed to my joining all the platforms of NEWSWEEK with tears.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“猎毒者”：上海“一号病人”流调的背后。
"The Hunter": Behind the Shift of "Patient One" in Shanghai.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“猎毒者”：上海“一号病人”流调的背后";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "有网友给流调员们取了一个酷酷的别称：猎毒者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some netizens gave stream workers a cool nickname: poacher.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '军事 | 台军在金门集结实弹射击，呵呵……',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 老婆，对不起了，我这辆车只能接送医生护士',。
A: Wife, I'm sorry I only had to take in a doctor or nurse at service.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 华人医生留守家乡参战：80岁的母亲流着泪同意我加入专家组',。
Chinese doctors left behind to fight at home: My 80-year-old mother tearfully agreed to join AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
