武汉隔离：疫区、信息孤岛与一辆鄂A车的漂流/* declared */。
Wuhan Isolation: the drifting / * declared * / of an epidemic area, isolated information island and a E-E vehicle.
武汉隔离：疫区、信息孤岛与一辆鄂A车的漂流<br>。
Wuhan isolated: epidemic area, isolated information island, and a E E car AT & L; br & gt;
| title       = 武汉隔离：疫区、信息孤岛与一辆鄂A车的漂流。
& # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Wuhan
武汉隔离：疫区、信息孤岛与一辆鄂A车的漂流。
Wuhan isolation: epidemic areas, isolated information island and a car to Hubei drifting.
蔚琳 颖迪 诗予。
Poetry to Wei Lin Yingdi.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
在武汉和鄂州交界处的村庄，一辆鄂A车冒夜雨往前开，被什么东西挡住了路。
In a village at the intersection of Wuhan and Huizhou, a Hubei A car braved the rain at night and was blocked by something.
父亲下车，回来时脸色难看：有人在路中间立了一块墓碑。
Father got out of the car and came back pale: someone had set up a gravestone in the middle of the road.
“他们怕我们是从武汉逃出来的”，父亲的声音有些激动，“他们不想让我们从这边过。
"They're afraid we're coming out of Wuhan," his voice said excitedly. "They don't want us to pass by.
”从恐惧，到担忧，再到被处处歧视，过去一周内，湖北人经历了一场心理的漂流。
Hubei people have experienced a psychological drift in the past week, from fear to worry to discrimination everywhere.
如《人民日报》所说：“抗疫”不能成“恐鄂”，我们唯一共同的敌人是新型冠状病毒。
As the People's Daily said: "Anti-epidemic" can not become "Hubei," our only common enemy is the new coronavirus.
好的是，这种状况正在慢慢改变。
The good news is that this is slowly changing.
鄂A、4201和武汉口音1月24日，除夕一早，云南大理一个村子的停车场，在此度假的郭芮一家遇到了麻烦。
Hubei A, 4201 and Wuhan accent January 24, the New Year's Eve, a village parking lot in Dali, Yunnan, where the GouRui family had trouble.
一个年轻人过来说，鄂A的牌照不允许开出去！郭芮说，不开出去，我们只是看一下有没有剐蹭。
A young man came over and said that the licence plate was not allowed to go out! Guo Rui said, not to go out, we just to see if there was a scratch.
停车场管理员过来帮忙解释，他们已经住了很久，没有关系的。
The garage attendant came over to help explain that they had been living for a long time and that it was okay.
年轻人面露怀疑，说，这个事我要报到村里去。
The young man looked suspicious and said, I'm going to report to the village.
半个多月前，郭芮父母从武汉自驾到大理。
More than half a month ago, Guo Rui's parents drove from Wuhan to Dali.
21日，郭芮所在科学期刊杂志社放假，第二天，她飞来和父母团聚。
Guo Rui was on holiday at the journal Science on February 21 and flew to join her parents the next day.
当时，武汉的疫情已露出苗头——单位每天都要量体温，呼吁大家戴口罩——但“封城”的消息要等到23号才被宣布。
At the time, the outbreak in Wuhan showed signs that the unit was taking temperature every day and calling for people to wear masks, but news of the "closure" would not be announced until the 23rd.
按原计划，他们一家将在大理度过这个春节。
According to the original plan, their family will spend the Spring Festival in Dali.
回到民宿，郭芮正睡午觉，隐约听到了争吵的声响。
Back home, Mr. Rui was taking a nap when he faintly heard a brawl.
醒来后，母亲神情严肃地告诉她，那个年轻人已向村主任举报。
When she woke up, her mother told her seriously that the young man had reported to the village director.
村主任来找民宿老板交涉，说，湖北来的车停在村口，会让游客和本地人激烈反应，我们这里不允许你们再住。
Village director to approach the boss, said that Hubei cars parked at the village head, visitors and local people will react violently, we do not allow you to live here.
郭芮母亲说，让我们走可以，要有个正常程序，好歹量下体温吧？村主任说，量不量体温都是题外话，大理不许你们继续待了，你们去丽江或者西双版纳吧。
Ms. Guo's mother said, 'Let's go. There's a normal procedure to take your temperature.' The village director said, 'It's a digression.
半晌过去，郭芮父亲走去停车场，又看到了那位年轻人，正在质问管理员：为什么还不让鄂A的车主走？父亲气上头了，说，我们现在就走。
Guo Rui's father walked to the parking lot for a while, then saw the young man again, and was asking the custodian, Why not let the owner of the E E's car go yet?
回到民宿，他们一家开始收拾东西。
Back at the lodge, the family began to pack.
民宿老板挽留，要不再住一晚，今天是大年三十。
Residential boss to stay, or no longer live one night, today is the New Year's 30.
父亲说，算了，大年三十让你们被别人吼，添麻烦了。
Father says, forget, New Year's Eve lets you be roared by others, cause trouble.
郭芮一家踏上了归乡的路途。
The GouRui family set out on their way home.
途径贵州的车窗外|图片来源：郭芮同样因为“鄂A”惹上麻烦的还有在北京的Andy，这半年她都没有回过武汉。
Picture: Guo Rui is also in trouble with Andy in Beijing, who hasn't returned to Wuhan in the past six months.
1月27日，她接到片警电话，说小区里有人报案，让她把车挪开。
On 27 January, she received a telephone call from the police stating that a report had been made in the neighbourhood asking her to move the car away.
她感到奇怪，车就停在停车位里，肯定不会挡住谁。
She was surprised that the car was parked in a parking space and would certainly not block anyone.
她后来才被告知，举报人只是想找出这辆鄂牌车的主人。
She was later told that the informant only wanted to find the owner of the E-car.
她很不舒服，感觉背后出现很多双眼睛，她的一举一动都在被监视。
She was uncomfortable, she felt a lot of eyes behind her, and her every move was being monitored.
在丽江，55岁的陈先生和太太来到订好的酒店，却因为自己4201打头的武汉身份证，没办法入住。
In Lijiang, 55-year-old Chen and his wife came to the hotel reserved, but because of their 4201 Wuhan identity card, can not live.
警察前来调解，让他们去医院做检查。
The police came to mediate and sent them to the hospital for an examination.
开了健康证明，警察又说，我们没法强迫酒店老板接待你，你们只能自己想办法。
'There's no way we can force the landlord to receive you, 'he added.' You'll have to do it yourself. '
陈先生找到了一个微信群，里面都是滞留在云南的湖北人。
Mr. Chen found a microcosm of people stranded in Hubei Province, Yunnan Province.
群里有人提供一处酒店式公寓，200多元一晚，收留湖北人。
Some people in the group provided a hotel-style apartment, more than 200 yuan a night, hosting Hubei people.
他在26日住进去，第二天一早，周边居民报了警，警察又赶了过来。
He moved in on the 26th, and early the next morning, residents of the neighborhood called the police, who rushed in again.
酒店外贴了封条，拉起警戒线，警察守在门口。
Seals were affixed to the outside of the hotel, cordoned off and the police stood at the door.
起初，他们被禁止点外卖，饮食问题没法解决，交涉了好一阵，警察才勉强同意他们点外卖送到酒店前台。
At first, they were forbidden to order take-out, and food problems could not be solved. After much discussion, the police reluctantly agreed to order takeaway and take it to the front desk.
在海南，武汉口音成为了瘟疫的标志。
In Hainan, Wuhan accent has become the hallmark of the plague.
1月20号，也就是钟南山院士说新型冠状病毒肺炎存在“人传人”现象的那一天，汉口的小陈一家从武汉飞到了海口。
January 20, that is, Zhong Nan Shan academician said that there is a "human-to-human" phenomenon of coronavirus pneumonia, the Hankou Xiaochen family flew from Wuhan to Haikou.
出了机场，小陈母亲用“自己觉得还很标准的普通话”和司机讲话。
Outside the airport, Xiao Chen's mother spoke to the driver in "Mandarin, which she thought was still very standard."
司机一听便说，你是武汉的吧？你们那里的病好像很严重，边把车窗打开了。
When the driver heard this, he said, "You are from Wuhan, aren't you? You seem to be very ill there and have your windows opened."
慢慢地，人们谈论武汉的口吻严肃了起来。
Slowly, the tone in which people talked about Wuhan became serious.
在海南西岛景区坐游览车时，小陈和母亲在用武汉话闲聊。
Xiao Chen and her mother chatted in Wuhan during a tour bus ride in the island's scenic area.
后排忽然有人愤怒地说，“都是武汉来的！”她们一下噤声了。
Suddenly someone in the back row said angrily, "It's all Wuhan!" They were silent.
23日，随武汉封城，返程航班取消。
23, with the closure of Wuhan, the return flight canceled.
几番考虑，小陈决定先带家人去长沙，想着实在不行，就租车回去。
After several considerations, Xiao Chen decided to take his family to Changsha first, thinking it was impossible, so he rented a car to go back.
大年三十晚上九点，他们抵达长沙黄花机场。
They arrived at Changsha Huanghua Airport at 9: 00 pm on New Year's Eve.
可等入住酒店后，前台空无一人，店主在电话里驱逐了她们。
After waiting to check into the hotel, the front desk was empty and the owner evicted them on the phone.
母亲还不甘心，见隔壁旅馆门口坐了个男人，她问，你这里能不能住啊？男人说，你们不会是武汉的吧？母亲又用“非常不标准的普通话”说，我是武汉的。
Mother was not willing to see a man sitting next door to the hotel door, she asked, can you live here? The man said, you can not be Wuhan? Mother also used "very substandard Putonghua," said I am Wuhan.
男人说，那我们不收，你赶紧走，你不走我走了。
"said the man." Then we won't take it. You just go away.
话毕，男人从前台消失，转身往楼上跑了。
With that, the man disappeared from the front desk and turned and ran upstairs.
消息更新中此时的武汉城里，封城的消息仍未传遍每个角落。
The news update at this time in Wuhan city, the news of the closure of the city has not spread to every corner.
1月23日早上9点，武汉大学的快递小哥张泽下楼，看到房东的房门紧闭，心里嘀咕：这大爷之前成天开着门，天天找我催水电费，怎么现在连门都关上了？小吃店里，人们都戴上了口罩，他吃完一碗热干面，掏出手机一看，群里在发：武汉封城了。
At 9 a.m. on January 23, Zhang Ze, a courier from Wuhan University, went downstairs and saw the landlord's door shut. He said to himself, "This man used to open the door all day long, looking for me for water and electricity.
上楼前，他又去房东门前看了看，还是大门紧锁，他意识到不对劲了，“房东跑了，他连钱都不要了！”这时，同为老乡的主管打来电话，说自己今天上午八点多就跑了，时间太紧张，没来得及叫上张泽。
Before going upstairs, he went to the landlord's door and looked at it again. He realized that something was wrong. "The landlord ran away and he didn't want any money!"
种种迹象下，张泽做了决定，下午就要随同另一位老乡回家。
In all signs, Zhang made the decision to accompany another villager home in the afternoon.
收拾东西时，他只带了三本书同行，其中一本便是福柯的《说真话的勇气》。
When he packed up, he had only three books with him, one of which was Foucault's Courage to Tell the Truth.
来到武汉出城的收费站，捎他上路的老乡拍了一段视频，发了条朋友圈：加油，武汉！张泽感到荒唐：明明人都跑了，却还在加油武汉。
Wuhan came out of the toll station, take him on the road to take a video, sent a circle of friends: Come on, Wuhan! Zhang Ze felt absurd: clear people ran, but still refueling Wuhan.
25日，大年初一下午，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布了一条公告：1月26日零时始，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理。
On the afternoon of January 25, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice: January 26, the central urban areas of the implementation of motor vehicle ban.
眼看武汉回不去了，刚离开大理的郭芮一家打算赶回鄂州老家。
Seeing Wuhan can not go back, just left Dali Guo Rui family to rush home to Huizhou.
父母的户口在鄂州，当地还有一套房，从疫情的感染数据来看，鄂州比武汉安全。
Parents' hukou in Huizhou, there is also a suite, from the epidemic infection data, Huizhou than Wuhan safe.
一家人开始联系各自在鄂州的朋友，朋友们说还没封城，私家车应该能进来。
The family began to contact their friends in Huizhou, friends said the city has not been closed, private cars should be able to enter.
几小时后，他们又不断收到新消息：鄂州可能进不来了。
Hours later, they received fresh reports that the state might not be able to get in.
郭芮想在网上核实这个消息，在微博和本地公众号上，看到的消息都像假新闻，慌乱让她忘了去看看政府官网。
Guo wants to check the news online. On Weibo and the local public, what she saw was false news, and she forgot to look at the government website.
比起武汉能轻松查到哪几个高速还开放，鄂州的信息无处可找。
Wuhan can easily find which high-speed also open, Huizhou information nowhere to find.
同学发给她一张截图，她没读懂那段表述，上面只说了哪几个高速口不能进鄂州，可是鄂州到底是不是要封城了？她怀疑手机导航也跟着禁行令的更新在不断变动。
Her classmates sent her a screenshot, she did not understand the paragraph, it only said which high-speed mouth can not enter Huizhou, but Huizhou is closed after all? She suspects that mobile phone navigation is also changing with the update of the ban.
零点之前，他们始终按照同一条路驶向鄂州，零点一过，那条路线在地图上消失了。
Before midnight, they had always followed the same route to Huizhou, where it disappeared on the map as soon as midnight.
在尝试了几条不同的路线、并全部失败后，她们只好又改道向武汉行进。
After several different routes were tried and all failed, they had to turn back and head for Wuhan.
零点已过，武汉能通车吗？这也是个未知数。
After midnight, can Wuhan open the car? This is also an unknown number.
几小时前，武汉市的那条公告后面又加了一条：对禁止通行的机动车通过手机短信形式提前24小时告知车主，未接到短信通知的机动车可以通行。
A few hours ago, the Wuhan city announcement was followed by a new one: Forbidding motor vehicles to notify their owners 24 hours in advance by text message that motor vehicles not notified by text message are allowed to pass.
收到短信的到底是通行还是禁行？郭芮读了几遍才理解，父亲没有收到短信，却担心禁行令还会再变。
After reading it several times, Mr. Guo understood that his father had not received a text message, but feared that the injunction would change again.
清晨4点，他们驶入武汉，街上通行一切正常。
At 4 a.m., they drove into Wuhan and the streets were all right.
到家几小时后，朋友发来微信，说接到通知，鄂州从零点开始全面封城了。
Hours home, a friend sent a letter, said received notice, Huizhou from the zero point of full closure of the city.
事实上，官方发布的公告称，鄂州全市高速公路和普通公路实行交通管制的时间是1月25日14:30。
In fact, the official announcement said that the city's highway and ordinary highway traffic control time is January 25 14: 30.
但在此之前，一家人谁也没能找到一份正式、清楚的声明，语焉不详的消息夹杂着恐慌，不断发射到他们身上。
But none of the family had been able to find a formal, clear statement until then, and inexplicable messages, mixed with panic, continued to emanate from them.
鄂州市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎防控指挥部通告25日下午四点，36岁的武汉人周阳也收到了“中心城区机动车禁行”的公告。
Wuhan 36-year-old Zhou Yang was also notified of the ban on motor vehicles in the central city at 4: 00 pm on Thursday.
她给社区打电话说，母亲有肾病，每隔一天要去医院做一次透析。
She called the community and said her mother had kidney problems and needed dialysis every other day.
目前没有接到上级指示，社区的工作人员说。
No instructions have been received from superiors, community workers said.
电话挂掉了。
The phone is dead.
两小时后，社区又给她打了回来：是有这个事，但现在一些医院的透析滞后了，你得去落实，后天是不是确定要去做透析。
Two hours later, the community called her back: yes, but now that some hospitals are behind with dialysis, you need to make sure that you get dialysis the day after tomorrow.
透析怎么能滞后呢？周阳没有收到医院的任何通知。
How can dialysis lag behind? Zhou Yang did not receive any notification from the hospital.
透析小组的电话占线，医生的电话也占线。
The dialysis team's line was busy, and the doctor's was busy.
赶不上透析，母亲身体里的水分和毒素就排不出去，“整个人等于泡在毒缸里”。
Unable to catch up with dialysis, the water and toxins in the mother's body cannot be drained out. "The whole person is in a poisoned tank."
她举着手机在房间走来走去，业主微信群在讨论社区配车，群里500个家庭，一台车，车要留给发热的病人。
She was walking up and down the room with her cell phone, and there was talk of a community car, 500 families, a car, reserved for febrile patients.
我母亲是走不到医院的，她在那天下午的采访电话里一遍遍强调。
My mother couldn't get to the hospital, she said over and over in her interview call that afternoon.
医院离她家一站地，但母亲的身体只能支撑自己走到楼下的菜市场。
The hospital was a stop from her house, but the mother's body could only support herself to the market downstairs.
透析四年，母亲瘦了30斤，每次透析后回到家，要睡两个小时才有力气起来吃午饭。
After four years of dialysis, the mother lost 30 pounds and returned home after dialysis. She had to sleep two hours before she could get up for lunch.
我做好违令上路的打算了，周阳说，逮我那就逮吧。
I'm ready to go on the road against my will, said Zhou Yang. Catch me.
到了晚上，禁行令加上了“短信通知”这条前提，周阳没有收到短信。
In the evening, the ban was accompanied by "SMS notice" this premise, Zhou Yang did not receive text messages.
第二天一早，她看到街上的私家车飞奔如初。
Early the next morning, she saw private cars racing down the street.
除夕夜，还在长沙街头漂泊的小陈一家意识到，所有旅馆都不会收留他们了。
On New Year's Eve, the Chen family, still wandering the streets of Changsha, realized that all the hotels would not take them in.
他们转身回机场，想着至少要找一个落脚的地方。
They turned back to the airport, trying to find at least one place to stay.
经过机场附近的派出所，母亲说，实在不行我们就报警。
After passing the police station near the airport, my mother said we couldn't.
小陈走上前问门口的值班保安，我们实在没有地方可去了，可不可以在这里住一晚上？保安把小窗户拉开，听罢，只说里头没有凳子，坐不了。
Xiao Chen asked the guard on duty at the door, we really have no place to go, can we stay here all night? The guard opened the small window and listened, saying there was no stool, no seat.
母亲很生气，你们这么大地方，连一个凳子都没有？保安说，你们这个事情，我们也管不了，要不然那边还有个网吧，你们去网吧住一晚上？他们最终折回机场。
My mother is very angry, you are so big place, not even a stool? Security guard said, you this matter, we can not manage, otherwise there is a net bar over there, you go to the Internet bar overnight? They finally turned back to the airport.
这注定是一个漫长的除夕夜，小陈把所有短袖都穿在身上，裹着外套匆匆睡在了机场的凳子上。
It was destined to be a long New Year's Eve, Chen put all the short sleeves on his body, wrapped in his coat and rushed to sleep on the airport stool.
隔天，小陈加入了一个“长沙回武汉”的微信群，看到有人已经从长沙回到了武汉。
The next day, Xiao Chen joined a "Changsha back to Wuhan" micro-faith group, see someone has returned from Changsha to Wuhan.
这时她才知道，直接买长沙到武汉的高铁票，票务系统上所有票都是灰色的，但如果买经停武汉的车票，就还有回家的可能。
Only then did she know that buying the high-speed train ticket from Changsha to Wuhan, all tickets on the ticket system are gray, but if the ticket stopped Wuhan, there is the possibility of going home.
她当即买了长沙到安徽六安的车票。
She immediately bought a ticket from Changsha to Liuan in Anhui Province.
上车时，她问乘务长，武汉站能不能下车？乘务长没说什么，只让他们登记。
As she got on the bus, she asked the conductor if he could get off the train.
一个半小时后，列车即将抵达武汉站。
The train will arrive at Wuhan Station in an hour and a half.
广播里说，所有想在武汉站下车的旅客都到某车厢里统一下车。
According to the radio, all the passengers who want to get off at Wuhan Station will get off the train.
小陈看见，站台上空无一人，连灯都关上了。
Xiao Chen saw that the platform was empty and the lights were off.
两个女孩开心地向列车员挥手说再见，列车员也开心地朝她们挥手。
The two girls waved goodbye happily to the conductor, who waved happily to them.
小陈也轻松下来，回到武汉，她不再害怕了，“在外面反而不受待见”。
Xiao Chen relaxed down, back to Wuhan, she is no longer afraid, "on the outside but not to see."
空荡的武汉站|图片来源：小陈他们被病毒攻击，我们被敌意攻击早在启程之初，郭芮一家就说好了，一路只睡收费站，不去找酒店，免得再被驱逐和拒绝。
Photo: Xiao Chen They were attacked by a virus. Long before the start of their journey, the GouRui family agreed to stay at the tollbooth all the way to avoid deportation and rejection.
粗算起来，行程24小时，加上过夜，他们在24号下午5点出发，能赶在26号凌晨到湖北。
Taken together, the 24-hour trip, plus an overnight stay, enabled them to leave at 5pm on the 24th and make it to Hubei in the early morning of the 26th.
启程前，他们带上了棉被、泡面和刚蒸好的花卷。
Before they left, they brought quilts, noodles and freshly steamed rolls.
我们不麻烦任何人，父亲一路都这么说。
We don't bother anyone, Father kept saying that all the way.
可在第二晚，疲劳驾驶让他在收费站睡过了计划的时间。
But on the second night, tired driving kept him asleep at the tollbooth.
朋友之前说，零点鄂州封城，但他们晚了半小时才到边界。
Friends had said the city of Zhouzhou closed, but they arrived half an hour late to the border.
路过一个收费站，父亲问工作人员，能进鄂州吗？工作人员把他们的箱子打开检查了，说可以。
Passing a toll station, the father asked staff, can enter Huzhou? Workers opened their boxes to check, said yes.
父亲又问从哪儿走，对方答，跟着导航走。
The father asked where he was going, answered the other, and followed the navigation.
可导航把他们导去了一条狭窄的泥路，要穿越武汉和鄂州交界的一个村庄。
Navigation led them down a narrow dirt road through a village at the junction of Wuhan and Huizhou.
天下起雨，车向前开，前方出现了一个模糊的轮廓，像有什么东西竖在那儿。
It began to rain, and as the car moved forward, a vague outline appeared ahead, as if something had been set up there.
父亲停车下去看，回来的时候，脸色很难看：有人在路中间立了一块墓碑。
My father stopped to look at it. When he came back, he looked very pale. Someone had set up a gravestone in the middle of the road.
“他们怕我们是从武汉逃出来的”，父亲的声音有些激动，“他们不想让我们从这边过。
"They're afraid we're coming out of Wuhan," his voice said excitedly. "They don't want us to pass by.
”父亲想再试试别的路，想起了一条大路可以走。
"The father wanted to try another way, and thought of a road to take.
走到大路上，他们的车又被一个警察拦住了。
When they reached the main road, their car was stopped again by a policeman.
他们解释了一番前因后果，警察说，不管怎么样，就算是你们自己错过了，现在高速路口已经不对你们开放了。
They explained the sequence of events, and the police said that, in any case, even if you had missed it yourself, the motorway was closed to you.
父亲掏出身份证，说我们本来就是鄂州人，想要回家怎么办？公安说，那你们自己去找酒店等消息吧，鄂州什么时候不封城了，你们什么时候进去。
The father took out his identity card and said that we were originally Huzhou people, how do you want to go home? Police said, you go to the hotel and so on, when Huzhou closed the city, when you go in.
父亲戴着口罩，警察也戴着口罩，父亲上前一步，想再解释，对方马上说，你离我远一点。
The father was wearing a mask and the police were wearing one. The father stepped forward and tried to explain again. The other man immediately said, "You stay away from me.
车里的泡面|图片来源：郭芮一省之隔的河南洛阳，刚从武汉返乡的李彦青接到了一个陌生电话：“你不要出门，你不要害人。
Photo: Li Yanqing, who just returned from Wuhan, China's Luoyang province, just returned from Wuhan with a strange phone call: "Don't go out. Don't harm people.
”他觉得莫名其妙，又想起来前一天，武汉封城时，县城的工作人员给他打过电话，问身体怎么样、武汉情况怎么样，采集了他的住址、身份证号和手机号。
He was puzzled, and remembered that the day before Wuhan had been closed, the county staff had called him to ask how he was, how things were in Wuhan, and had collected his address, identity card number and mobile phone number.
他还收到了同学发来的一份excel表格，里头就有那天他登记的全部信息——接下来的陌生电话，他决定统统不接了。
He also received an excel form from a classmate with all the information he had registered for that day - the next strange phone call, and he decided not to answer it.
原定的同乡朋友聚餐也取消了。
The planned dinner party for fellow countrymen was also cancelled.
朋友们向他发来慰问，但结尾总要加上一句：“你不要出门。
His friends sent him condolences, but always at the end of the sentence: "You do not go out.
”李彦青想，这话里总还是有点嫌弃的意思吧。
Li Yan-qing thought that there was always a sense of disgust in this remark.
马尔代夫，来自武汉的刘女士在那里度过了自己的31岁生日。
Ms. Liu from Wuhan, Maldives, celebrated her 31st birthday there.
她和女朋友住进7000元一天的“水屋”，水屋建在海上，阳台上就能看海吹风。
She and her girlfriend live in a 7,000-yuan-a-day "water house" built on the sea, balcony can see hair dryer.
晚上，所有星星都清晰地闪烁在头顶，她想要“一辈子待在这里”。
At night, all the stars were clearly flashing overhead, and she wanted to "stay here forever."
四天后，武汉封城，航空公司取消了她们回武汉的航班，她们只得搬入市中心一家“破烂招待所”。
Four days later, in the city of Wuhan, airlines canceled their flights back to Wuhan, forcing them to move into a "tattered guest house" downtown.
此时马尔代夫回国的直飞航班只能前往广州或上海。
At this time Maldives return to the direct flight only to Guangzhou or Shanghai.
她们飞到广州后，入住的酒店前台小姐却要求她们出示“七天健康证明”。
After they flew to Guangzhou, the hotel receptionist asked them to produce a "seven-day health certificate."
刘女士说，我出门九天了。
Ms. Liu said that I had been away nine days.
前台说，这是公司规定，我也是打工的。
The front desk said it was company policy and I was a part-time worker.
酒店告示|图片来源：刘女士她俩套上三四层口罩，打车到医院。
Photo: Ms Liu, they put on three or four-storey masks and took a taxi to the hospital.
接待员听闻来了两个武汉人，让她们赶紧站远一点，“得有两米以上”。
Receptionist heard that two Wuhan people, let them hurriedly stand a little further, "must be more than two meters."
接待员和领导打过电话后，又说，你们得去发热门诊。
The receptionist and the leader called and said, You have to go to the fever clinic.
明明就没有发热，为什么要去发热门诊？刘女士和朋友回到了酒店，尝试打110、换民宿均未果，晚上九点，在酒店大堂，刘女士哭了起来。
Why did Ms. Liu and her friends go back to the hotel and try to call 110 and change lodgings without success. At 9 p. m., Ms. Liu began to cry in the lobby of the hotel.
她的哭声最终招来了黄冈籍的经理，把她们送去了另一家愿意收留武汉人的酒店。
Her cries eventually brought the Huanggang managers to send them to another hotel willing to take in Wuhan people.
箱子里装着的还是波西米亚风的长裙，最厚的不过一件薄外套和牛仔长裤。
It contained a bohemian dress, the thickest of which was a thin coat and jeans.
刘女士便开足暖气，闷了一晚。
Ms. Liu then turned on the heating, stuffy all night.
隔天起来，两个人脸涨得通红。
The next day, both faces turned red.
有人来敲门，三位穿黄色防护服的卫生所成员进来，拿温度计往她们脸上扫，显示38度。
Someone knocked at the door, and three members of the clinic wearing yellow suits came in and ran thermometers over their faces, showing 38 degrees.
又测了腋下，体温正常。
Under my armpit again, my temperature is normal.
防护人员说，你俩不要激动，不要紧张。
The guard said, you two, don't get excited, don't get nervous.
刘女士想换一个有窗户的房间，酒店工作人员没露面，把一张房卡放在了她们门口。
Ms. Liu wanted to change into a room with windows. The hotel staff did not show up and put a room card in front of their door.
附带还有一瓶消毒液，“你们自个儿把里头消消毒！”也没人来打扫了。
With it was a bottle of disinfectant, "You sterilize it yourselves!" And no one came to clean it.
两位女士定了三天房，但她们不知道，接下来俩月都得困在这儿吗？虽说酒店普通，也得要三百块钱一天啊。
The two ladies were engaged for three days, but they did not know whether they would be stuck here for the next two months.It would cost three hundred dollars a day for the average hotel.
湖北红安，快递小哥张泽搭着老乡的车，总算是回到了老家。
Hubei Hongan, express delivery brother Zhang Ze ride the car of the townsman, is finally back home.
大年初一，亲戚给他母亲打电话拜年，说的却是：你们不要来我家拜年了，尤其是张泽。
On New Year's Day, relatives called his mother to pay a New Year call, said: you do not come to my home, especially Zhang Ze.
他到市中心溜达，戴着口罩，街上却空无一人。
He strolled downtown wearing a mask, but the street was deserted.
晚上，他给我们发来微信：“他们被病毒攻击，而我们从武汉回来的则是被莫名其妙的敌意攻击，太魔幻现实了。
In the evening, he sent us a message: "They were attacked by the virus, and what we returned from Wuhan was an inexplicable hostile attack, too magical reality.
”2020年的除夕夜1月21日，周阳得到消息，母亲做透析的医院要开始接收新型冠状病毒患者了，那晚，她失眠到凌晨三点。
On January 21, 2020, Zhou Yang received word that the hospital where his mother was on dialysis was about to begin receiving patients with the new coronavirus.
隔天一早，母女俩赶在7点前开车到医院。
The next morning, the mother and daughter drove to the hospital before seven o'clock.
站在大门口，母亲对她说，你不要进去，我这个年纪了，你还很年轻。
Standing at the door, her mother said to her, don't go in. You're still young at my age.
“我看着母亲的背影，她一个人进去了。
"I looked after my mother. She went in by herself.
”采访中说到这里，周阳又一次哭了。
"Zhou Yang cried again as he spoke in the interview.
正在做透析的母亲|图片来源：周阳朋友不聚了，门也不能出了，李彦青待在洛阳老家自我隔离，天天玩吃鸡、王者荣耀、阴阳师，还看起了《切尔诺贝利》——据他所说：“很应景，也很硬核。
Photo: Zhou Yang's friends are not together and the door can't come out. Robin Li stays in his hometown of Luoyang to isolate himself and play chicken, the glory of the king, the yin yang teacher, and Chernobyl, which he says is very responsive and hard-core.
”更具体来说，不是待在家，是待在自己的房间。
More specifically, not at home, but in my own room.
大年三十，父母走进他房间，没戴口罩。
In his late thirties, his parents walked into his room without wearing a mask.
他把他俩推出了房门，再把门反锁上，冲着门外的父母喊话：“你们不戴口罩，我就不开门。
He pushed them out of the room, locked the door behind them and shouted at his parents outside, "If you don't wear a mask, I won't open the door.
”年夜饭，李彦青一个人在房间里吃了碗猪肉韭菜馅的饺子。
On New Year's Eve, Li Yan-qing ate a bowl of dumplings with pork and leek filling in his room.
今年，他也错过了和父母包饺子的环节。
This year, he also missed making dumplings with his parents.
除夕的凌晨一点，冒着云南的大雪，陈先生开车到祥云县郊区的一家招待所落脚。
At 1 a.m. on New Year's Eve, despite heavy snow in Yunnan, Mr. Chen drove to a guest house in the outskirts of Xiangyun County.
老板看到他出示的健康证明，爽快地办好了入住手续。
The boss saw his health certificate and went through the check-in formalities.
两小时后，他被不断传来的敲门声唤醒——他的身份证在前台登记时进入了系统，赶来的警察在门外要求他起床登记信息。
Two hours later, he was awakened by repeated knocks on the door -- his identity card had entered the system while he was checking in at the front desk, and the police who had arrived asked him to get up and register.
测完体温，警察站在离他一米远处，回头说，最好还是把鄂A的车牌摘掉。
After measuring his temperature, the policeman stood one meter away from him and said in turn that it would be better to take off the license plate of the E E.
大年初一，陈先生做的第一件事，就是摘掉自己的车牌。
The first thing Mr. Chen did on New Year's Day was to take off his license plate.
他联系了拖车公司，把车运到昆明的4S店，然后租车赶赴昆明。
He contacted the tow company, transported the car to the 4S store in Kunming and rented a car to Kunming.
“我是不是真有病？”在云南搬完行李上了车，郭芮感觉四肢无力，可能是搬东西太费力气，但她又想，也可能是真的感染了。
"Am I really sick?" Guo felt limp after moving her luggage to Yunnan. It might have been too much lifting, but she thought it might be a real infection.
她上网查资料，发现感染者未必会发热，难怪村里人没给他们量体温，就断定一定有问题。
She found that infected people do not necessarily have fever, no wonder people in the village did not take their temperature, concluded that there must be a problem.
为什么非要来云南？出发时她不知道会封城，不知道疫情很严重，只想着全家团聚。
Why did she have to come to Yunnan? When she left, she didn't know that the city would be closed.
现在，她忍不住在心里暗示自己：我是一个潜在的病毒携带者，我是一个不安全的人。
Now, she could not help but suggest to herself that I was a potential carrier of the virus and that I was an unsafe person.
如果我没有来云南，父母是不是本来可以过个好年？被撵走前，村支书来问民宿老板，这里住了几个人？老板说，两个人。
If I hadn't come to Yunnan, would my parents have had a good yearBefore I was dismissed, the village secretary asked the landlord how many people lived here, the boss said.
没人敢提到她的存在。
Nobody dares to mention her presence.
她想，是我给所有人添了麻烦。
I'm the one who's causing all the trouble, she thought.
车子开动了，父亲的脸更阴沉。
The car started, and my father's face grew more gloomy.
从前逢年过节，她家是云南的常客。
Once upon a time, her family was a regular visitor in Yunnan.
早年这里还没发展好旅游业，父亲就发现了大理。
Before tourism was developed here in the early years, my father discovered Dali.
现在郭芮想，这些感情可能是一厢情愿，他们被这座城市当成了一个麻烦。
Now, Mr. Guo thinks, these feelings may be wishful thinking, they were taken as a problem by the city.
要是主动去找酒店，说不定也能住进去，但父亲害怕再一次被拒绝。
He might have been able to stay if he had taken the initiative to look for a hotel, but his father was afraid of being turned down again.
第一晚，父亲憋着一口气，绝不在云南过夜。
On the first night my father breathed that he would never spend the night in Yunnan.
直到凌晨3点，他们到了贵州境内的第一个收费站，一家人盖上棉袄和被子，在车里睡了三个小时。
They arrived at the first toll booth in Guizhou province at 3 a.m. The family covered themselves with cotton padded jackets and quilts and slept in the car for three hours.
那一晚也是除夕夜，往年的这个时候，郭芮会在手机上收到点不完的新年祝福和红包，今年什么都没有。
That night was also New Year's Eve. At this time of the year, Mr. Guo would receive countless New Year's greetings and red envelopes on his mobile phone.
接近零点，天空绽开了烟花。
Near zero, the sky burst into fireworks.
她把车窗摇下来看，烟花开得特别大。
She rolled down the window to see how big the fireworks were.
“他们是把欢乐建立在湖北人的痛苦上“，正在开车的父亲说。
"They built their joy on the misery of Hubei people," said his father, who was driving the car.
母亲把头扭到了一边，“我再也不喜欢云南了。
"My mother turned her head away." I don't like Yunnan any more.
”手机上不断有微信涌进来，叫他们别回来，“别回来”三个字刷屏了。
"There was a steady stream of microphone messages telling them not to come back," don't come back.
父亲接到了朋友的一个电话：有些话我们不方便说得太明白，但你们就是不要回武汉。
Father received a call from a friend: some words we can not say too clearly, but you do not want to go back to Wuhan.
要不我们别回了，有一回郭芮提议说，父亲如她所料地拒绝了：如果情况很糟糕，那就是给省外人添麻烦；如果没那么糟，我只想回家好好休息。
Or let's not go back, suggests Guo Rui, whose father once declined as she had expected: If things go badly, it's just trouble for people from outside the province; if not, I just want to go home and have a good rest.
她知道父亲心里受了伤，不想继续在外流浪。
She knew her father was hurt and did not want to go on wandering.
担心父亲疲劳驾驶，郭芮给他买了很多含着提神的口香糖。
Fearing her father's fatigue, Guo Rui bought him a lot of chewing gum.
一路上，一家人一起玩一个游戏：看前面是什么车牌，猜想车主的遭遇。
Along the way, the family played a game: look at the front of what license plate, guess the fate of the owner.
看到一辆浙A，她问父亲，浙A为什么在赶路呢，浙A又不是鄂A。
When she saw a Zhejiang A, she asked her father why he was driving, Zhejiang A was not E A.
父亲说，浙江的防御做得紧，估计人家不想在外面待了。
My father said Zhejiang's defenses were so tight that people probably didn't want to stay outside.
凌晨两三点，一辆鄂A开到眼前，父亲说，这是跟我们一样的人，都是被嫌弃的人。
Two or three o'clock in the morning, a E-E arrived and my father said, This is the same people as us.
*文中陈先生、张泽、小陈、刘女士、Andy为化名撰文 |洪蔚琳、李颖迪、刘诗予编辑｜吴呈杰、康路凯。
* In this letter, Mr. Chen, Mr. Zhang, Ms. Chen, Ms. Liu, and Andy write or write for pseudonym.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉隔离：疫区、信息孤岛与一辆鄂A车的漂流。
Wuhan isolation: epidemic areas, isolated information island and a car to Hubei drifting.
