在人间丨寻药的武汉护士: 虽然怕，但我们愿意守护这座城。
Wuhan Nurse: Though afraid, we are willing to guard the city.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
昨天（1月28日），我的一位朋友在群里筹药，说她武汉的护士朋友可能感染了新型肺炎，但是武汉已经买不到这种药了，请求外地的朋友支援。
Yesterday (January 28), a friend of mine was in the group, saying that her nurse friend in Wuhan might have contracted the new pneumonia, but Wuhan could not buy the medicine and asked for help from friends outside the city.
医护人员患病的消息在群里激起了千层浪。
The news of the illness of the paramedics stirred up waves in the crowd.
群友纷纷去附近药店打听，最后有人在杭州买了药寄给护士。
Group friends went to the nearby drugstore to inquire, finally someone bought medicine in Hangzhou and sent it to the nurse.
我们都不愿意却又不得不承认，疫情其实离我们很近，近到如果医院是一线，其它地方都是二线。
Neither of us wanted to but we had to admit that the epidemic was so close to us that if the hospital was on the front line, everything else was on the second line.
这位武汉护士是我碰到的最前线群体，出于对她自身和对武汉疫情的关注，我拜托朋友牵线，让我跟这位护士聊聊。
Wuhan nurse is the most frontline group I met, out of concern for herself and Wuhan epidemic situation, I asked my friends to tie the line, let me talk to the nurse.
她很爽快地答应了，我们约了下午四点通话。
She said yes with alacrity. We had an appointment at four in the afternoon.
通话前，我翻了翻她的朋友圈，一月份的内容全都与疫情有关。
Before I spoke to her, I flipped through her circle of friends and everything in January had to do with the epidemic.
有一则是转发医院的“寻求社会捐赠公告”；还有一个小视频，视频里的病患紧紧拽着医生的手问：“我是不是快不行了”，医生说：“不是不是，坚强一点，我们会治好你”；还有一个是她报名支援发热门诊的截图，上面配文：“虽然怕，但我们愿意守护这座城……”四点时，她发来一条微信，说自己的CT结果确实有问题，需要平复一下情绪，晚点再打给我。
One is a "Call for Social Donation Proclamation" forwarded to the hospital; another is a small video of the patient clutching the doctor's hand and asking, "Am I going to die," and the doctor says, "No, we'll cure you."
我赶忙安慰她，并且在心里做好了无法通话的准备——毕竟这种情况放在谁的面前，都难以在短时间内接受。
I comforted her quickly, and was mentally prepared to be unable to speak - a situation that, after all, was difficult to accept in the short term.
没想到过了一会儿，她还是打来了电话，听筒里的声音有些沙哑，鼻音很重，应该刚刚哭过。
Unexpectedly, after a while, she still called the phone, the voice in the receiver is hoarse, heavy nasal voice, should just cry.
我安慰她说，你这么年轻，抵抗力也很强，会没事的。
I reassured her that you were so young and so resistant that it would be all right.
她说她不担心自己，而是担心传染给家人，两个孩子还那么小。
She said she was not worried about herself, but about infecting her family, two of whom were so young.
这是一次很克制的通话，我一直试图以还未确诊的事实来宽慰她，却还是屡次听见了她的抽泣和哽咽。
It was a restrained conversation, and I kept trying to soothe her with undiagnosed facts, but I heard her sobs and sobs repeatedly.
不过她并未表现出过分的悲伤，这或许便是一种真实，生活不是小说不是戏剧，没有那么多巧合的线索、集中的冲突感和外化的情感表达，事实的发生发展更不会因为一己悲喜而改变轨迹或者产生任何特别的意义。
It may be true, however, that life is not a novel or a drama, that there are not many clues of coincidence, that there is a concentrated sense of conflict, that there is no outward expression of feeling, and that the unfolding of events does not alter the course of events by one's own pessimism or produce any particular significance.
我们都有太多时候，对于突如其来的命运只能迎面相对，默默承受。
We all have too many times, for the sudden fate can only face each other, silently bear.
通话结束时，我鼓励她：“加油，一定会好起来的！”她也跟着说了声“一定会好起来的”，整个通话中，这是她语调稍显轻快的唯一一句，充满着坚强的信念和真诚的希望。
At the end of the conversation, I encouraged her: "Come on, it's going to be okay!" She added, "It's going to get better," the only one in her voice that was a little brisk, full of strong faith and sincere hope.
以下内容根据这位护士的自述整理而成：大年初二的晚上我开始骨痛和发热我是武汉某三甲医院的一名普通护士，疫情爆发的这些天来，我在医院值了三次班，接触过三例高度疑似的患者，其中一例的核酸检测呈强阳性。
On the evening of the New Year's Day, I began to have bone pains and fever. I was an ordinary nurse at a Three A Hospital in Wuhan. In the days since the outbreak of the outbreak, I have worked three shifts in the hospital and contacted three highly suspected patients, one of whom tested positive for nucleic acid.
我们科并非是对抗疫情的主力，至少到目前为止，院里还没有调配我们去支援。
We are not the main force in the fight against the epidemic, at least so far, the hospital has not deployed our support.
不过23日的时候，大家就主动报过名了，时刻待命准备战斗。
However, on the 23rd, people volunteered to report names, stand by ready to fight.
此时我心里虽然也怕，但又愿意尽自己的一份力去守护这座城市。
At this time, although my heart is afraid, but also willing to do their part to protect the city.
1月20日是我值的第一个班，那时还没有“封城”。
January 20th was my first class and there was no "city closure."
等到24日也就是除夕那天再值班时，武汉的公共交通就已经全停了。
By the time the 24th, New Year's Eve, was on duty, Wuhan's public transport had stopped.
“封城”之前，我老公回了老家，他的车留在家里，但我不会开，所以也没用，只好搭同事的车。
Before the city was closed, my husband went back to his hometown. His car stayed at home, but I couldn't drive, so it was useless.
院里也开了一些班车，而且“封城”之后，武汉人建了好多群，都是互助群，不光交通，吃的喝的口罩什么的，都是互帮互助，社区也给我打过电话，说我们医护人员如果有困难就告诉他们。
There were also buses in the courtyard, and after the closure of the city, the Wuhan people built a lot of groups, not only traffic, food and drink masks, are mutual help, the community also called me, if we have difficulties to tell them.
之前我上下班一直坐的出租车司机，人也挺好的，跟我说有需要就发微信给他。
I have been commuting taxi drivers, people are also very good, to tell me to have a need to send a letter to him.
有一些食品厂家会给医院送一些食品，前两天还有人说要给我们送水果，科里又备了好几箱方便面，一点不用担心吃的问题。
There are some food manufacturers will send some food to the hospital, the other two days people said to bring us fruit, Corey prepared several boxes of instant noodles, do not worry about the problem of food.
因为家人照顾，所以我上班去都是自己带饭，还用不着吃方便面。
Because my family takes care of me, I bring my own food to work and I don't need instant noodles.
防护装备确实有些紧张。
The protective gear was a bit tight.
之前科里有十几个N95口罩，到院里领了两次都领不到，26日时主任领到了50个，应该是第一批物资到了。
Corey used to have a dozen N95 masks, but he couldn't get them twice in the yard. By 26, the director had received 50.
防护服还是紧张，就我们科而言，全体医护三班倒，一个人待8个小时，这就需要三套防护服，8个小时里真的不敢吃东西不敢喝水，不然脱了再穿的过程中也很容易感染。
Protective clothing is still tense, as far as our department is concerned, three shifts of medical care, eight hours a person, three suits of protective clothing, eight hours of really dare not eat water, otherwise take off the process is also very vulnerable to infection.
所以算下来，防护服肯定是不够的，更不用说那些一线的科室。
So in terms of numbers, protective clothing is definitely not enough, not to mention the front-line departments.
我们每天都会测体温，院里有专门人员负责随时沟通医护们的身体状况，每个科室也都有自己的微信群，群里会随时上报任何症状。
We take temperature every day, there is a specialist in the hospital to communicate with the health care personnel at any time, each section has its own micro-group, the group will report any symptoms at any time.
22日那天，院里还给我们安排了体检，体检结果显示我一切正常。
On the 22nd, we were given a medical check-up, which showed that I was all right.
然而风云总是瞬息万变，看似一切尚可以应对的情况，到26日也就是大年初二的晚上终结了。
However, the wind and clouds are always changing, it seems that everything can still cope with the situation, by the 26th, that is, the end of the New Year's Eve.
那天值班的时候我就一直觉得身上发冷，晚上回家以后开始出现骨痛，10点钟测了一下体温——37.5℃，最担心的事情还是发生了。
When I was on duty that day, I felt chilly. After coming home at night, I began to have bone pains. At 10 o'clock, my temperature was 37.5 ℃.
我可以接受自己被感染最担心的是孩子看到自己的体温，我赶紧联系了护士长，取消了第二天的值班，接着立即赶回院里检查。
I could accept that I was infected Most worried about the child seeing his temperature, I immediately contacted the head nurse, canceled duty the next day, and rushed back to the hospital to check.
11点多时，我到了发热门诊，诊号已经排到了52号——一天总共大概150个号。
By eleven o'clock I was at the fever clinic, and the number was already on the number 52 -- about 150 a day.
就是这一两天，院里取消了医务人员专用通道，所以这会儿我只能和普通病人一样排队。
For a day or two, the hospital closed to medical staff, so now I have to line up like a normal patient.
排了两个多小时，差不多凌晨2点时终于看上诊。
After waiting for more than two hours, I finally came to see him at about 2 am.
医生给我拍了一个CT，怀疑是病毒肺，但鉴于我的实际症状不是很明显，所以医生暂时说的是让我自己在家吃药。
The doctor gave me a CT, suspected to be a viral lung, but since my actual symptoms were not obvious, the doctor temporarily told me to take the medicine at home.
作为护士，我知道这属于正常操作。
As a nurse, I know it's normal practice.
现在所有发热病例都要去发热门诊或专门的发热医院就诊，医生会给你做血常规检查，然后会做一个检测甲流乙流以及禽流感的咽拭子，还会给你拍一个胸部加纵隔的CT，看一下有没有肺部感染，如果CT已经有片状的磨玻璃样，医生就会诊断作“有病毒性肺炎，结合临床症状”。
Now that all fevers are going to a fever clinic or a special fever hospital, your doctor will give you a routine blood test, then a swabbing swabs for swine flu and a chest and mediastinal CT to see if there is a lung infection. If CT already has flaked glass, the doctor will diagnose "viral pneumonia combined with clinical symptoms."
但这并非确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，只有再做一个专门的咽拭子才能确认，应该是咽拭子比较紧张的原因，一般的医院做不了，必须去发热医院才能做。
But this is not diagnosed as a new coronavirus pneumonia, only a special swabs can confirm that swabs should be the reason for the relatively tense swabs, the general hospital can not do, must go to the fever hospital to do.
虽然我是本院的医务人员，也要向社会医疗发展部申请，待他们和门诊这边确认以后才能做。
Although I am a medical officer of the hospital, I have to apply to the Ministry of Social and Medical Development for confirmation from them and the outpatient clinic.
医生开给我的药里有连花清瘟，中成药，再有就是新康泰克，我自己又吃了莫西沙星，主要就是消炎。
The medicine the doctor prescribed to me included rinderpest, Chinese patent medicine, and then New Kangtak, I myself ate moxifloxacin, mainly anti-inflammatory.
我们医院的门诊没有开阿比多尔，只是我们自己的医务人员每人可以领一盒，但只够五天的量。
There is no abidor in our hospital clinic, only our own medical staff can get a box each, but only for five days.
虽然同事愿意把他们的药给我，但是他们自己其实也需要的，恰好有一个同事之前在药房买过，所以给了我一盒，可还是不够。
Although my co-workers were willing to give me their medicine, they needed it themselves. A colleague had bought one at the drugstore before, so they gave me one, but it wasn't enough.
主要是我怕家里人被传染，再就是这几天同事一直送我上下班和看病，接触挺多的，我希望他们能有足够的用量来预防。
The main thing is that I am afraid of being infected with my family, and that my colleagues have been sending me to and from work and seeing doctors these days, and I hope they have enough to prevent it.
这个药现在市面上已经买不到了，所以27日那天我发了个朋友圈，希望有药或者能帮忙搞到的朋友提供些帮助。
The drug is no longer available on the market, so on the 27th I sent out a group of friends hoping for help from friends who might be able to get medicine or help.
27日早上7点，同事给我打电话，说CT结果出来了，有问题，随后我又去了发热门诊，协调做核酸检测。
At 7 a.m. on the 27th, my colleague called me to say that the CT results came out, there was a problem, and then I went to the fever clinic to coordinate a nucleic acid test.
当晚开始我明显感觉到乏力，第二天早上出现胸闷气短，症状越来越像“新冠”，我们主任看了CT也说应该就是新冠。
The next morning I had chest tightness, the symptoms were more and more like the "new crown," and our director looked at the CT and said it should be the new crown.
但是我的核酸显示是阴性，所以我跟护士长申请了再做一次核酸检测，只有核酸结果是阳性，医院才会治疗。
But my nucleic acid was negative, so I applied to the head nurse for another nucleic acid test, and only if it turned out to be positive would the hospital treat it.
其实对于自己，我是可以接受已被感染的结果的，阳性就阳性吧，至少作为医务人员，院里是会管我的，不需要去担心治疗、床位这些问题。
In fact, for myself, I can accept the results of the infected, positive, at least as a medical staff, the hospital will be in charge of me, do not have to worry about treatment, bed and other issues.
可是就是因为现在是阴性，而我的症状又非常像，多方面治疗就比较头疼。
But just because I am now negative, and my symptoms are very similar, multi-faceted treatment is more headache.
最主要的还是担心给家人和同事造成的影响，尤其是我的两个孩子，身体本来就不好，元旦的时候我还许了一个愿，希望他们新一年少生点病——去年除了8月，每个月都去了趟医院报到。
Most of all, I was worried about the impact on my family and colleagues, especially my two children, who were already in poor health, and I made a wish on New Year's Day that they would have less babies every monthexcept in August.
从我20日开始接触肺炎病人，到22日把孩子送走之前，我们都是一起睡的，很怕他们会被传染上。
Since I began to contact the pneumonia patients on the 20th, until the 22 sent the children away, we are sleeping together, afraid that they will be infected.
疫情面前总有些感动也有过犹疑，尤其是看到一些医患矛盾的新闻，确实挺寒心的，不知自己到底值不值得上一线？就在我发热以后，医院给我照顾的病人也做了检测，结果呈阳性。
In the face of the epidemic there are always touched and hesitant, especially to see some contradictory news, really cold, I do not know whether their worth on the line? Just after my fever, the hospital for my care patients tested positive.
家属知道以后崩溃了，闹情绪。
The family knew it was going to break down and get upset.
但是目前这位病人还在我们医院，我们该治还是得治。
But this patient is still in our hospital, we should still be treated.
但是也是在我自己出现状况之后，看到了不管是同事还是群里的朋友，纷纷帮忙筹药，内心仍然还是会感动。
But also in my own situation, see whether colleagues or the group of friends, to help raise drugs, the heart will still be moved.
目前，我所能做的就是在家隔离好自己，避免给身边的人带来更大危险，等待第二次的核酸检测。
For now, all I can do is isolate myself at home and avoid further danger to those around me, waiting for a second nucleic acid test.
我相信自己一定会好起来的。
I'm sure I'll be all right.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨寻药的武汉护士: 虽然怕，但我们愿意守护这座城。
Wuhan Nurse: Though afraid, we are willing to guard the city.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨寻药的武汉护士: 虽然怕，但我们愿意守护这座城";。
Wuhan nurse: Fear, but we are willing to guard this city and its place.;
var msg_desc = "“一定会好起来的”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Certainly will" and & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
