努力完成今年经济社会发展目标任务。
We will strive to achieve economic and social development goals this year.
张岸元。
Zhang Bian Yuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情行至中盘，当下的事情尚存不确定，不宜为一个翻番指标，上新的紧箍咒张岸元 | 文当前形势下，提出努力完成今年经济社会发展目标任务，对于稳定预期，鼓足干劲，具有重要意义。
In view of the current situation, it is of great importance to make every effort to achieve the economic and social development targets for this year.
努力完成任务，首先要明确任务；明确任务，首先要对灾疫既有经济损失有充分估计。
Efforts to complete the task, first of all, to clarify the mandate, first of all to have a full estimate of the economic losses of the epidemic.
一段时期以来，经济界纷纷强调疫情对中国经济社会发展构成严重冲击。
For some time, the economic circles have emphasized that the epidemic poses a serious impact on China's economic and social development.
但这一冲击从短期定量看，究竟严重到什么程度；从中长期定性看，究竟有无结构性趋势性影响，尚缺少说服力的阐述。
However, the short-term quantitative impact of this impact, how serious it is; from the medium- and long-term qualitative point of view, whether there is a structural trend or not, is not convincing.
此前，个别流行病学家轻言“可防可控”，对疫情的严重性讳莫如深、顾左右而言他。
Previously, a few epidemiologists said that "preventable controllable," to the severity of the epidemic kept silent, right and left him.
而今，一些搞经济工作的人士，判断一季度能有4%、5%正增长；断言“中长期不改向好态势”。
Now some people in the economy are predicting a positive 4 percent and 5 percent growth in the first quarter, asserting that "things are not changing for the better in the long run."
这些拍脑袋的表态如果成为决策基础，造成的危害不亚于此前对疫情的误判。
These pats of the head, if used as a basis for decision-making, would be no less damaging than previous miscalculations of the epidemic.
一、要考虑一季度经济可能萎缩的场景关于一季度增长的定量预测，确实存在很大难度，需要随疫情演进不断调整。
First, consider a scenario in which the economy may contract for the first quarter. Quantitative forecasts of first-quarter growth are difficult indeed and need to be adjusted as the epidemic evolves.
但既然是预测，就不能犯方向性错误，不能有量级的偏差。
But since is the prediction, cannot make the directional mistake, cannot have the order of magnitude deviation.
如果说半个月之前，预测一季度能有3%到5%的增长，尚值得商榷的话，时至今日，还维持该判断，则是谬以千里。
It is debatable whether, half a month ago, growth of 3% to 5% was forecast for the first quarter, and to this day it is a fallacy to maintain it.
GDP的统计方法、统计口径固然复杂，但其本质是居民一段时期内经济活动创造财富总量的测度。
The statistical methods and caliber of GDP are complex, but the essence of GDP is the measure of the total amount of wealth created by economic activities.
回归常识：一个季度三个月，其中十几亿人口待在家里近一个月，经济居然还实现若干正增长，怎有可能？假定一月份、三月份都能一切如常，且实现6%的增长，那么，二月份工作量最多萎缩12%（两个6%），三个月加总才正好实现零增长。
How is it possible for the economy to achieve some positive growth after three quarters and three months, with more than one billion people staying at home for nearly a month.Assuming that all goes well in January and March, with a 6% growth rate, the workload shrank by up to 12% (two 6%) in February, adding up to just three months of zero growth.
从目前披露的开工率、电厂耗煤、发送旅客、集装箱吞吐、城市拥堵指数、乘用车销售等一系列高频数据看，二月份工作量萎缩程度显然超过这一水平。
Based on a range of high-frequency data currently disclosed, such as starting rates, coal consumption by power plants, passenger dispatch, container throughput, urban congestion index and passenger vehicle sales, the magnitude of the workload contraction in February clearly exceeded this level.
市场预测出现如此大偏差的原因是多方面的。
There are many reasons for such a big deviation in market forecasts.
首先，多年来，我们习惯了正增长，一些研究者并不清楚国民经济核算，容易将二月份经济规模的绝对萎缩，误解为增速下行，没有从一月、三月的正增长中减除萎缩的工作量。
First, over the years, we have become accustomed to positive growth, and some researchers are not clear about the national accounts. It is easy to misinterpret the absolute contraction in the size of the economy in February as a downward trend, without subtracting the shrinking workload from positive growth in January and March.
其次，宣传的力量不能移山，却能使人看不到有山在移。
Secondly, the power of propaganda can not move mountains, but people can not see that there are mountains moving.
我们更愿意传播正能量，更愿意被疫情期间个别需求逆向繁荣的树叶障住眼睛。
We prefer to spread positive energy and are more willing to be blinded by leaves that reverse-thrive on individual needs during epidemics.
最后，此前经济数据的瑕疵，让我们轻视了统计工作的严肃性。
Finally, previous flaws in economic data make us belittle the seriousness of statistical work.
我相信官方统计不会因为疫情改变口径，更不可能对核算数据做量级上的调整。
I do not believe that official statistics will change in tone because of the epidemic, much less make an order of magnitude adjustment to the accounting data.
高估一季度经济正增长的政策后果，就是刻舟求剑，指望通过随后几个季度的逆向政策刺激，将全年增速锁定在实现翻番所需的某个水平上。
The policy consequence of overestimating positive economic growth in the first quarter is a desperate attempt to lock in year-round growth at a level necessary to double through subsequent quarters of adverse policy stimulus.
这太难了。
It's too difficult.
简单估算，一季度若没有经济增长，随后三个季度的当季增速必须达到7%，全年平均下来经济增速才可能超过5%。
Simple estimates suggest that without economic growth in the first quarter, growth would have to reach 7% in the next three quarters and average over 5% for the full year.
中国经济季度增速最近一次达到7%，还是2017年二、三季度的事。
China's latest quarterly growth of 7% was in the second and third quarters of 2017.
在经济总量扩大、下行趋势不改情况下，要想通过逆向调节达到7%增速，所需的政策力度必然超出一般刺激政策边界，必然以更显著的结构恶化、更大规模的潜力透支为代价。
In the face of an expanding aggregate economy and a steady downward trend, a 7 per cent growth rate through reverse adjustment will necessarily require policies that go beyond the boundaries of general stimulus policies and necessarily come at the expense of more pronounced structural deterioration and a larger overdraft of potential.
疫情冲击之下，目标任务一切如常，反而反常。
Under the impact of the epidemic, the target mission was abnormal.
去年底中央经济工作会议议定的事项，不涵盖疫情因素。
Matters agreed at the Central Economic Work Conference at the end of last year did not cover epidemic factors.
全国两会尚未召开，经济和社会发展目标尚未通过法定程序确认公布。
The NPC and CPPCC have not yet convened, and economic and social development goals have not been confirmed and announced through legal procedures.
届时进一步强调小康社会的民生保障、社会建设含义；根据一季度经济损失的严重程度，调整增速目标并淡化之，人民能够理解、能够接受。
At that time, we will further emphasize the significance of livelihood security and social construction in a well-off society.According to the seriousness of economic losses in one quarter, adjust the growth targets and dilute them so that the people can understand and accept them.
目标切合实际，任务自然完成。
The objective is realistic and the task is natural.
二、要考虑中长期趋势的变化疫情不改变中国经济中长期向好态势的判断，是个愿景。
It is a vision to consider changes in medium- and long-term trends that do not alter China's medium- and long-term economic outlook.
需要问两个问题：一是原有中长期趋势是否是向好，二是这一趋势是否会改变，是否需要改变。
Two questions need to be asked: first, whether the old medium- and long-term trend is positive, and second, whether the trend will change and whether there is a need for change.
——百年未有之大变局客观存在。
- The great changes that have not occurred in a century exist objectively.
此时此刻，各方都在评估中国社会治理的真实状况，都在考察这个国家的应对策略应急管理能力，事后可能会在对华政策方面有所反应。
At this very moment, all sides are assessing the real state of China's social governance, examining the country's emergency management capacity in response to the strategy, and may later reflect on China policy.
至于方向是什么，不完全取决于我们，也不完全取决于对方。
What direction we take is not entirely up to us, nor is it entirely up to each other.
疫情爆发前中美第一阶段贸易协议的达成，为防控应对提供了和缓的外部环境，避免了内外共振局面的出现。
Before the outbreak of the outbreak, the first stage of China-US trade agreement was concluded, providing a smooth external environment for the prevention and control of the response, avoiding the emergence of internal and external resonance.
下一步疫后恢复期间，缓和态势需要延续。
After the next recovery period, the situation needs to continue to ease.
——经济加速下行态势需要逆转。
- The accelerated economic downturn needs to be reversed.
由中长期变量趋势性变化决定的潜在增长率下行态势，不会因疫情冲击恶化，当然，也不会因之好转。
The downward trend in potential growth rates, determined by medium- and long-term variable trends, will not be exacerbated by the epidemic, and certainly not by it.
我们尤其需要关注近年来，中国经济领域出现的新变化。
We need to pay particular attention to the new changes that have taken place in the Chinese economy in recent years.
图：2018年以来，季度同比增速加速下行制图：中信建投证券研究发展部2018年以来（上图红线部分），中国经济在原有中长期增速缓慢下行基础上，又叠加了一个新的加速下行态势。
Figure: Since 2018, year-on-year growth has accelerated downwards mapping: CITIC Construction Securities Research and Development Department since 2018 (above, red line), adding a new acceleration to the growth of the Chinese economy in the medium to long term.
背后的原因，显然要从制度层面、政策层面去找。
Behind the reasons, obviously from the institutional level, the policy level to find.
坦率说，改开以来推动中国经济快速增长的微观激励制度基础，有的被暂时搁置。
Frankly, some of the microeconomic incentives that have underpinned China's rapid economic growth have been put on hold.
与此同时，新的激励约束机制尚没有建立。
At the same time, no new incentive-binding mechanism has been established.
疫情后，如果不改，中国经济可能下滑到更低的增速平台。
After the outbreak, if uncorrected, China's economy could slide to a lower growth platform.
习主席说，中华民族伟大复兴绝不是轻轻松松、敲锣打鼓就能实现的。
Xi said that the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is by no means easy to achieve.
此次灾疫、特别是采取的强力管控措施史无前例，对短期经济的影响数十年未有。
The epidemic, in particular the adoption of strong regulatory measures, was unprecedented and had an unprecedented impact on the short-term economy for decades.
其后续影响超出现有分析框架。
Its follow-up impact goes beyond the existing analytical framework.
疫情行至中盘，当下的事情尚存不确定，不宜为一个翻番指标上新的紧箍咒。
Epidemic to the middle dish, the current thing is still uncertain, it is not appropriate for a double indicator of a new straitjacket.
至于疫后，大到国家、小到家庭，首先都需要休养生息。
As for the epidemic, large countries, small families, all need to rest first.
如何总结反思此次灾疫是宏大命题。
How to summarize and reflect on this plague is a grand proposition.
确定的是，体制内外，社会各阶层，不可能一切照旧。
It was determined that business as usual was not possible at all levels of society, both within and outside the system.
不确定的是，基于同样的事实，将得出怎样的结论，引申出怎样方向可能截然相反的路线。
It is uncertain what conclusions, based on the same facts, will be drawn and which course may be diametrically opposed.
我相信历史的车轮滚滚向前，相信五星出东方利中国。
I believe in the wheel of history rolling forward, the five stars out of Orient China.
作者为中信建投证券首席经济学家 编辑：苏琦▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is chief economist for Citic Capital Securities. Click here to see more details about the outbreak. & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
努力完成今年经济社会发展目标任务。
We will strive to achieve economic and social development goals this year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "努力完成今年经济社会发展目标任务";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; economic and social development this year.
var msg_desc = "疫情行至中盘，当下的事情尚存不确定，不宜为一个翻番指标，上新的紧箍咒。
var msg _ desc = & quot; midway through the epidemic, the situation remains uncertain and should not be doubled as a new straitjacket.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
