A股战“疫”上半场：万亿成交，科技领涨。
A-share battle "plague" in the first half: trillion transactions, led by technology.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 读数一帜。
The following article comes from the reading is unique.
Author 郭楠 等。
Author Guo Nan et al.
读数一帜。
The reading is unique.
读数一帜由《财经》杂志资本证券组创建。
The first reading was created by Caijing Capital Securities Group.
数说资本故事，解读财富密码。
Count capital stories and decipher the code of wealth.
。
.
顶住开市压力，A股在大跌后逐渐修复，沪指重回3000点，创业板创下新高。
Against the opening pressure, A shares after the crash gradually repair, Shanghai index back to 3000 points, set a new high GEM.
未来中国的经济增长靠什么？不是靠短期的货币政策、财政政策，而是消费升级与产业升级，A股已然掀起科技热潮文 |《财经》记者 郭楠 杨秀红 特约记者 辛然编辑 | 陆玲鼠年春节，中国版图成为了新冠肺炎疫情地图，数字的变化，事件的发酵，情绪的积攒，所有的压力都集中在了2月3日延迟开市的A股。
Instead of short-term monetary and fiscal policy, China's future economic growth will depend not on short-term monetary and fiscal policy, but rather on consumption upgrading and industrial upgrading. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
证监会在开市前发声，2月3日股市开市，是权衡各种因素的结果，从一个侧面表明了对市场、对规则的尊重和战胜困难的信心。
The SFC's pre-market announcement and the February 3 opening of the stock market were the result of a weighing of factors, demonstrating confidence in the market, respect for rules and the ability to overcome difficulties.
央行更是在公开市场投放1.2万亿元流动性并降息。
The central bank is putting 1.2 trillion yuan of liquidity on the open market and cutting interest rates.
此后政策力度不减，再融资新规落地，MLF、LPR利率跟随下调。
Since then, the policy strength has not decreased, refinancing new regulations landing, MLF, LPR interest rates follow the downward adjustment.
8.73％，沪指开盘创下了多年跌幅纪录，点位逼近2700点，超出了市场预期。
At 8.73%, the Shanghai index opened down a multi-year record close to 2,700 points, surpassing market expectations.
同时，北上资金逆势买入近200亿元。
At the same time, the north to buy nearly 20 billion yuan.
恐慌与理智并存，危与机同在，大跌之后创业板指加速反弹，并创出新高，沪指也在2月20日回归3000点。
Panic and reason coexist, crisis and crisis together, after the GEM index accelerated rebound and hit a new high, Shanghai index also returned to 3000 on February 20.
分析者们类比2003年的非典，计算着疫情对经济的拖累，猜测政策的走向以及市场的涨跌。
Analysts liken 2003 SARS to the economic drag of the epidemic, guessing where policy is headed and how markets are rising and falling.
悲观者认为，新冠肺炎疫情影响超过非典，同时政府不会刺激房地产。
Pessimists argue that the SARS epidemic is affecting more people than SARS and that the government will not stimulate real estate.
而更多的乐观者表示，全国统一的防控行动更快更坚决，疫情将更快缓解。
More optimists, however, said the national unity of the prevention and control actions faster and more resolute, the epidemic will be easier to alleviate.
“未来中国的经济增长不是靠短期的货币政策、财政政策，而是消费升级与产业升级的趋势。
"China's economic growth in the future will not depend on short-term monetary and fiscal policies, but on the trend of consumption upgrading and industrial upgrading.
”中金公司首席经济学家梁红对《财经》记者表示。
Liang Hong, chief economist at CICC, told Caijing.
在A股中不仅能看到眼下，也能看到未来。
In A shares can not only see the present, but also see the future.
短期内，口罩、肺炎相关概念受到爆炒后逐步退烧，在线教育、在线办公等股票终于等来了风口，而市场上表现最亮眼的仍是代表未来的5G、新能源、芯片等科技股。
In the short term, the concept of masks, pneumonia after being fired gradually reduce fever, online education, online office and other stocks have finally come to the wind, and the market is still the most outstanding representative of the future of 5G, new energy, chip and other technology stocks.
开市三周以来，深市明显跑赢沪市，创业板指大涨15.51%，上证综指涨幅为4.02%。
In the past three weeks, Shenzhen has clearly won the Shanghai market, with the GEM up 15.51% and the Shanghai Composite up 4.02%.
以申万一级行业来看，2020年以来，电子、计算机涨幅高达31.19%、27.66%，而钢铁、银行、房地产、交通运输领跌。
In terms of Shenwan I industries, electronics and computers have risen 31.19 per cent and 27.66 per cent since 2020, while steel, banking, real estate and transport have led the way.
“经济面临的挑战还很多，但科技周期即将开启。
"There are many challenges ahead for the economy, but the technology cycle is about to start.
”一位基金经理表示。
'says one fund manager.
压力下开市在农历新年到来前爆发的新冠肺炎疫情成为2020年金融市场的黑天鹅。
The outbreak of pneumonia on the eve of the Lunar New Year, under pressure, became the black swan of financial markets in 2020.
春节期间，新冠肺炎疫情确诊人数迅速攀升，截至1月28日24时，新冠肺炎确诊人数达到5974例，超过2003年非典，引发全球市场调整。
During the Spring Festival, the number of people diagnosed with pneumonia in the New Crown rose rapidly. As of 2400 hours on January 28, the number of confirmed cases had reached 5,974, surpassing SARS in 2003, triggering a global market correction.
开市前夕，确诊人数已上升至17205例，疫情蔓延至全球。
On the eve of the opening day, the number of confirmed cases rose to 17,205, spreading to the whole world.
在春节期间，海外市场受冲击明显。
During the Spring Festival, overseas markets were hit hard.
标普500和纳斯达克分别下跌3.01％和2.68％；恒生指数下跌5.72％，创一个半月新低；韩国综合指数下跌5.66％，日经225指数下跌2.48％；富时A50期货下跌7.04％，创下6个月来的新低。
The S & P 500 and Nasdaq fell 3.01 per cent and 2.68 per cent, respectively; the Hang Seng index fell 5.72 per cent to a one-and-a-half-month low; the South Korean composite index fell 5.66 per cent and the Nikkei 225 index fell 2.48 per cent; and FTSE A50 futures fell 7.04 per cent to a six-month low.
疫情影响之下，1月27日大年初三，国务院通知延长春节假期至2月2日，证监会也在当日晚间宣布延迟开市，2月3日（星期一）照常开市。
Under the impact of the epidemic, January 27, the State Council informed the extension of the Spring Festival holiday to February 2, the Securities and Futures Commission announced the same night postponed the opening of the market, February 3 (Monday) as usual.
此前，市场有观点认为，受疫情影响，证监会应再次延迟开市时间。
Earlier, the market has the view that affected by the epidemic, the Securities and Futures Commission should once again delay the opening time.
“不论是2月3日开市还是继续延迟，均有利有弊，只能两害相权取其轻。
"Whether the market opens on February 3 or continues to be delayed, it has both advantages and disadvantages.
”证监会表示，“更为重要的是，股市交易规则不宜随意更改，否则会影响市场预期。
"More importantly, stock market rules should not be subject to arbitrary changes that could affect market expectations," the regulator said.
股市是经济社会的晴雨表，同时也具有自我修复和调节功能，对此要一分为二看待。
The stock market is the economic and social barometer, but also has the function of self-repair and regulation, which has to be divided into two.
”应对短期市场冲击保证流动性是关键。
Addressing short-term market shocks to ensure liquidity is key.
开市前一天，央行表示，2月3日将开展1.2万亿元公开市场逆回购操作投放资金，确保流动性充足供应。
The day before the market opened, the central bank said it would launch a 1.2 trillion yuan reverse repurchase operation on February 3 to ensure an adequate supply of liquidity.
证监会副主席李超强调，要“尊重市场规律，体现监管弹性”，推出9项举措，从便利企业直接融资、延长上市公司信息披露发行债券等业务时限、放宽部分证券基金经营机构监管要求、减免上市公司相关费用四方面，加强金融服务力度，稳定市场平稳运行。
Li Chao, vice chairman of the CSRC, stressed the need to "respect the laws of the market and demonstrate regulatory flexibility," and put forward nine measures to strengthen financial services and stabilize the smooth operation of the market by facilitating direct financing for enterprises, extending the time limit for listed companies to issue bonds, relaxing regulatory requirements for some securities fund operators and reducing and waiving fees associated with listed companies.
对于可能出现的市场异动，证监会表示，将保持高度警惕，坚持底线思维，出台和研究对冲工具，缓解市场恐慌情绪。
The CSRC said it would be vigilant against possible market changes, sticking to bottom-line thinking, introducing and researching hedging tools to allay market fears.
2月2日晚间，多家券商接到证监会通知，2月3日起暂停融券卖出业务。
February 2 night, a number of securities companies received notice from the Securities Regulatory Commission, February 3 suspended short-selling business.
此举意在减少市场空头，抑制股市剧烈波动。
The move is intended to reduce short-selling and curb stock market volatility.
沪指重回3000点2月3日，A股开盘大跌，沪指下跌8.73％，逼近2700点，跌幅创下1997年以来的开盘跌幅纪录。
Shanghai index fell 8.73 per cent to 2,700 points, its opening decline since 1997, as the Shanghai index slid back to 3000 February 3.
截至当日收盘，上证综指收于2746.61点，单日跌幅7.72％；深证成指收于9779.67点，跌幅8.45％；创业板指收于1795.77点，跌幅6.85％。
By the end of the day, the Shanghai composite index closed at 2746.61, down 7.72% a day, Shenzhen closed 8.45% at 9779.67, while the GEM closed at 1795.77, down 6.85%.
全市场跌停股票数据超过3000只。
The total market limit stock data more than 3,000.
超预期跌幅也伴随着央行公开市场意外降息。
The ultra-expected decline was accompanied by an unexpected cut in the central bank's open market.
2月3日上午，央行开展1.2万亿元公开市场逆回购操作投放流动性。
On the morning of February 3, the central bank launched a 1.2 trillion yuan reverse repurchase operation to release liquidity.
同时，此次公开市场操作中标利率下调10个基点。
At the same time, the open market operation bid rate cut 10 basis points.
海通证券首席经济学家姜超2月3日表示，预计货币政策将更为灵活。
Haitong Securities chief economist Jiang Chao said Feb. 3 that monetary policy is expected to be more flexible.
OMO（公开市场操作利率）利率下调预示未来MLF利率也将大概率同等幅度下调，进而LPR报价也有望跟随下调10BP。
The OMO rate cut predicts that the MLF rate will fall by the same margin in the future, and the LPR offer is expected to follow a 10-BP cut.
而实体经济贷款利率已挂钩LPR(贷款基础利率)，也将有望相应下调。
The real economy lending rate has been linked to the LPR (loan base rate) and is expected to fall accordingly.
目前，宽松预期已逐步落地。
Expectations of easing are now on the ground.
2月17日，央行开展2000亿元MLF（中期借贷便利）操作，中标利率下降10个基点。
On February 17, the central bank launched a 200 billion yuan (medium-term lending facility) operation, reducing the winning interest rate by 10 basis points.
2月20日，央行宣布贷款市场报价利率（LPR）下调，1年期LPR为4.05%，5年期以上LPR为4.75%，分别下行10个、5个基点。
On February 20, the central bank announced that the lending market quote rate (LPR) would be lowered by 4.05% for one-year LPR and 4.75% for LPR older than 5 years, down 10 basis points and 5 basis points, respectively.
市场恐慌之时，聪明的资金却在逆势买入。
When markets panic, smart money is buying against the trend.
据Wind数据显示，2月3日，北向资金全天净流入181.91亿元，其中沪股通净流入136亿元，创下单日历史纪录。
On February 3, there was a full-day net inflow of 18.191 billion yuan, including 13.6 billion yuan in Shanghai-based stock exchanges, a record, according to Wind.
工银国际首席经济学家程实分析认为，外资净流入和指数涨跌呈现出高度同步性，且前者往往是后者变动的先行指标。
Cheng factual analysis of the Bank's international chief economist found that the net inflow of foreign capital and the rise and fall of the index show a high degree of synchronization, and the former is often the first indicator of the latter's changes.
首日大跌之后，有大型私募基金人士对《财经》记者表示，市场最大的跌幅已经完成。
After the first day of the crash, some big private equity investors told Caijing that the biggest drop in the market was over.
多数机构纷纷表态，大跌带来了战略布局的“黄金坑”。
Most institutions have said that the plunge has created a "golden pit" for strategic positioning.
“2月3日A股发生了剧烈调整，这是疫情下恐慌情绪的一次性宣泄，基本调整到位。
"February 3 A shares underwent a drastic adjustment, which is a one-off panic under the epidemic, basic adjustment in place.
”星石投资董事长江晖表示。
Cheung Kong Hui, director of Star Investment, said.
2月4日，A股放量上涨，创业板大涨4.84％。
On February 4, A-share volume rose, GEM jumped 4.84%.
此后市场开市连续上涨。
Since then the market has continued to rise.
2月5日，上证综指突破2800点，2月11日，再次突破2900点大关，2月20日，沪指重回3000点。
On February 5, the Shanghai Composite Index breached 2,800 points, and on February 11 it again passed the 2,900 mark, before returning to 3000 on February 20th.
创业板指则在科技热潮之下突破年前高位，创下2016年3月以来新高，开市三周内涨幅高达15.51%。
The GEM index surged to a new high since March 2016 amid a technology boom, rising as much as 15.51 per cent in three weeks.
证监会副主席阎庆民2月15日在国新办发布会上表示，A股市场经受住了疫情的冲击和严峻考验，目前市场已经基本回归常态化运行。
Yan Qingmin, vice chairman of the CSRC, said at a press conference on Feb. 15 that the A-share market had withstood the impact and severe test of the epidemic and that the market had basically returned to normal operation.
指数修复，交易活跃度也在提升。
Index repair, trading activity is also increasing.
数据显示，A股开始后交易量节节攀升，开市第二日成交额突破9000亿元，2月19日至21日，两市成交额连续突破万亿。
Data showed that trading volume rose steadily after the start of A-share trading, surpassing 900 billion yuan on the second day of trading, and topped trillion yuan in turnover between February 19 and 21.
钱从哪来？除了上述北上资金逆势流入，机构与散户资金也在加速入场。
Where does the money come from? In addition to the above-mentioned capital inflow northward, institutions and retail funds are also accelerating admission.
开年以来爆款基金频现，市场已有招商科技创新、建信科技创新等多只“日光基”。
Since the beginning of the year explosion of funds, the market has been attracting investment in science and technology innovation, building innovation and other "daylight base."
2月18日，睿远基金旗下第二只公募产品募集上限60亿，单日认购金额达到1200亿。
On February 18, Rui Yuan raised a limit of $6 billion for its second public offering, raising $120 billion a day.
此外，散户亦加速入场。
In addition, retail customers also speed up admission.
中国结算数据显示，A股1月新增投资者80.07万任，投资者总人数达到1.6亿。
China clearing data showed 800,700 new investors in A-shares in January, bringing the total number of investors to 160 million.
一级半市场也迎来政策利好。
First-tier semi-market also ushered in good policy.
疫情下的情人节，证监会为市场送来礼物，再融资新规正式出台并再度松绑，在非公开发行股票融资规模、“新老划断”时点安排、对“明股实债”的限制等方面做出了超预期调整。
On Valentine's Day, the CSRC sent gifts to the market, refinancing rules were formally issued and re-liberalized, and made unexpected adjustments in the size of private share offerings, the timing of the "new cut-off" arrangement, and restrictions on "bright-share debt."
市场分析认为，短期来看，再融资新规有助于上市公司缓解疫情带来的现金流紧张，而从中长期来看，对于定增价格、锁定期限、发行规模、发行对象人数等方面的放宽，将吸引更多资金进入资本市场。
In the short term, market analysis suggests that the refinancing rules will help listed companies ease cash flow strains from the epidemic, and that, in the medium to long term, more money will be attracted to capital markets by easing price increases, lock-in periods, issue sizes and target groups.
A股回暖，疫情影响是否逐渐消散？兴业证券首席策略分析师王德伦表示，本此疫情对市场可能也会有两轮影响，第一轮是对于风险偏好的影响，节后首日基本完成，因为跌幅较大，目前是存量反弹的过程中。
'There are likely to be two rounds of impact on the market as well, 'said Wang Darren, chief strategy analyst at Societe Generale Securities. The first round was on risk appetite and the first day was largely completed, as the decline was large and the stock was now in the process of rebounding.
第二轮影响可能来自于基本面，对经济基本面的影响，继而对市场形成制约。
The second impact may come from fundamentals, which affect economic fundamentals and then constrain markets.
但不需要太悲观，因为市场往下的空间不大，后续市场可能还会有“磨底”的过程。
But there is no need to be too pessimistic, because there is not much room for the market to fall, and the follow-up market may have a "grind bottom" process.
后续疫情对中国经济影响几何，市场上观点不一。
There are different views on how the subsequent epidemic will affect China's economy.
野村证券在报告中指出，新型冠状病毒很可能对中国的短期经济增长造成严重影响，2020年第一季度的GDP增速可能会比2019年第四季度的6.0％下降2个百分点。
The new coronavirus is likely to have a serious impact on China's short-term economic growth, with GDP growth in the first quarter of 2020 likely to fall by 2 percentage points from 6.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2019, Nomura said in the report.
而相对2003年“非典”对中国经济的影响，由于服务业占比由41％增长到53％、春节假期延长及封锁状态带来对经济的限制，此次新冠肺炎疫情对经济的影响更大。
Compared with the impact of SARS on China's economy in 2003, the economic impact of the SARS epidemic has been even greater due to the increase in the share of the service sector from 41% to 53%, the extension of the Spring Festival and the economic restrictions imposed by the blockade.
“目前来看新冠病毒对经济的影响会大于非典。
"The economic impact of the new crown virus is now expected to be greater than that of SARS.
”瑞银投资研究部首席中国经济学家、亚洲经济研究主管汪涛表示。
Wang Tao, chief China economist and head of Asian economic research at UBS Investment Research, said.
汪涛预计，假设疫情在一季度得到控制，生产和生活在4月全面恢复，一季度GDP环比增速会下降至-1.5%，同比增速为3.8%作用，在政策刺激之下，全年GDP增速将由原来预测的6%降至5.4%，甚至更差。
Mr. Wang expects GDP growth to slow to -1.5% in the first quarter, compared with 3.8% YoY, assuming the epidemic is contained in the first quarter and production and living conditions recover fully in April.
中金公司首席经济学家梁红则表示，新冠肺炎疫情对经济整体影响未必一定超过“非典”。
Liang Hong, chief economist at CICC, said the overall economic impact of the outbreak is not necessarily greater than SARS.
2月7日，梁红在接受《财经》记者采访时表示，2003年非典时期，从第1个确诊病例到全国统一开展防疫行动，时间间隔为5个月，而此次严格隔离防御措施采取的时间更早且范围更大，因此新冠肺炎疫情从爆发到进入“缓和期”的时间可能比“非典”更短。
In an interview with Caijing on Feb. 7, Liang said that the SARS outbreak may have lasted less than five months from the time of the first confirmed case to the unified national immunization campaign in 2003, when the strict quarantine measures were earlier and more extensive.
另外，此次疫情的影响区域集中在湖北省，而“非典”时期则呈“多点爆发”的局面。
In addition, the impact of the epidemic in Hubei Province, and the "SARS" period was a "multi-point outbreak."
不过，梁红强调，此次疫情对全球经济的影响要大于“非典”时期。
However, Liang stressed that the impact of the epidemic on the global economy than the SARS period.
“中国制造业占全球的30％，特别是一些行业中的隐形冠军，中国工厂停下来，全球都会感受到压力。
"With Chinese manufacturing accounting for 30 per cent of the world, and especially invisible champions in some industries, Chinese factories will stop and the world will feel the pressure."
”2019年年底，在中美贸易谈判出现乐观预期之后，梁红调高了对2020年中国GDP增速的预期。
In late 2019, after buoyant expectations in trade talks between China and the US, Mr Leung raised China's GDP growth forecast for 2020.
疫情突然来袭，对于是否重新调整预期的问题，梁红表示不会调整。
The outbreak of a sudden attack, whether or not to readjust expectations, Liang Hong said will not adjust.
医药股冰与火2月3日开市之后，疫情蔓延下，医药股成为最受关注的板块之一。
Medicines and Fire After the February 3 opening of the market, the spread of the epidemic, the pharmaceutical shares become one of the most concerned plate.
Wind数据显示，自2月3日节后开市以来，医药生物板块涨幅位居前三，其子行业医疗器械板块涨幅最高，涨幅超10％。
According to Wind, the pharmaceutical and biological sector has gained the top three spots since the start of the holiday on February 3, with its son's medical equipment sector gaining the biggest percentage gain of more than 10 per cent, according to Wind.
尤其在鼠年A股首个交易日，沪指开盘大跌，医药行业一枝独秀，口罩、诊断试剂、抗病毒药物、医药商业流通等相关股票涨停。
In particular, the Year of the Rat A shares in the first trading day, Shanghai index fell sharply, the pharmaceutical industry is unique, masks, diagnostic reagents, antiviral drugs, medicine commercial circulation and other related stocks trading.
热炒过后，分化显现。
After the hot stir-fry, differentiation appears.
“目前受益的主要是与疫情密切相关的医疗医药类企业，其他与疫情相关不大的医药企业，则可能受到疫情负面影响。
"The main beneficiaries are medical and pharmaceutical companies that are closely related to the epidemic, while other pharmaceutical companies that do not have a strong association with the epidemic may be negatively affected by the epidemic.
”一位创投机构的CEO对《财经》记者表示。
A VCs chief executive told Caijing.
招商国证生物医药指数基金经理侯昊表示：“此次新冠肺炎疫情期间受益的医药子板块较SARS爆发时更丰富，对抗生素、诊断试剂、药店、疫苗等均有一定影响，其中，对抗生素、检测、器械、血制品子领域短期影响较为直接。
Hou Hao, manager of CMA Biomedical Index Fund, said: "The medical sub-section benefited from the outbreak of SARS, which had an impact on antibiotics, diagnostic reagents, pharmacies, vaccines and so on.
”民生加银优选基金经理高松认为，疫情还对不少行业产生实质性利好，其中之一是对抗疫情所爆发的需求，集中于医疗医药、卫生防护、预防保健领域；二是互联网领域，比如：在线娱乐、在线教育、远程办公、电商、快递等。
Gao Song, a fund manager at Minsheng Development Bank, said the outbreak also had substantial benefits in a number of sectors, including fighting the outbreak of demand, focusing on medicine, health protection and preventive health care, and the Internet, such as online entertainment, online education, telecommuting, telecommerce and express delivery.
高松进一步分析称，疫情对医药行业整体是利好，不仅短期出现部分产品的需求爆发，从长期看，更会促进各级政府完善公共卫生应急系统平台的建设，增强医疗机构对大型流行病的疾控应对能力，提升广大公众的卫生预防意识和医疗健康知识水平，具有深远意义。
In the long run, it will help governments at all levels to improve the platform of the public health emergency system, enhance the ability of medical institutions to control and respond to major epidemics, and raise the level of public health awareness and medical health knowledge.
前述创投机构的CEO亦对《财经》记者表示：“此次疫情，给人们上了重要一课，未来大家会更加注重自身的健康，预计疫情结束后，相关医疗检测类的企业有望迎来业务的大幅增长。
"This epidemic has taught us an important lesson," Caijing told Caijing. "We will pay more attention to our health in the future," Caijing told China Daily.
”“疫情可能会使市场资金短期追捧医药板块，部分标的被炒作产生泡沫，疫情结束后，并未实质性受益的公司，股价自然会跌回原位。
"The epidemic is likely to cause market funds to chase down the pharmaceutical sector in the short term, with some targets being hyped up to create bubbles, and companies that do not substantially benefit after the epidemic ends and share prices will naturally fall back in place.
”高松表示，“未来中长期主宰中国医药行业趋势的主要矛盾是，中国加速的人口老龄化进程带来的对医药的巨大需求与医保支付能力不足之间的矛盾。
"The main contradiction that will dominate trends in China's pharmaceutical industry in the medium to long term is the contradiction between the huge demand for medicine and the insufficient ability to pay for health care due to China's accelerating aging population."
因而以仿制药为代表的缺乏竞争力的中低端医药产品将面临大幅降价是大势所趋，创新是唯一出路。
Therefore, the lack of competition represented by generic drugs in the low-end pharmaceutical products will face a significant price reduction is the trend, innovation is the only way out.
”医疗健康领域在未来的确定性发展，依然离不开一些必要的改革。
Some necessary reforms are still needed for the future definitive development of health care.
“中国未来要有15个到20个千万级以上人口的城市，更值得关注的问题是，公共资源是否按照真正的实际人口来配置，而非按照户籍人口。
"In China, where there will be between 15 and 20 cities with 10 million or more people in the future, it is even more interesting to see whether public resources are allocated on the basis of a real real population rather than on the basis of household registration.
”梁红提醒道。
"warned Liang.
科技牛与宅经济科技股行情在去年三季度爆发，开年之后，科技股仍是全市场焦点。
The tech bull market and home economics technology market broke out in the third quarter of last year, technology stocks remained the market-wide focus.
“科技成长是全年主线，因为我们现在已经处在新一轮科技创新的起点，所以科技成长板块不仅是今年，也是未来几年的投资主线。
"Technology growth is the mainstay of the year, because we are now at the beginning of a new round of technological innovation, so the technology growth sector is not only this year, but the next few years as well.
”王德伦表示。
'he said.
“虽然对今年一季度和二季度的业绩有一定影响，但是一旦疫情得到控制，市场会用偏长期的视角去给公司估值。
"Although this year's first and second-quarter results have some impact, but once the epidemic is under control, the market will use a longer-term perspective to value the company.
因此，以一年的维度来看，疫情不太会改变市场的幅度和市场的结构，市场仍然以科技创新为驱动的科技板块行情为主导，但是疫情会改变市场节奏，因此，下跌的时候会给我们更好的调仓机会。
Thus, on a one-year scale, the epidemic is unlikely to change the size and structure of the market, which remains dominated by the science, technology and innovation-driven technology sector, but the epidemic changes the pace of the market, so it gives us a better chance to position ourselves in downturns.
”银华基金基金经理唐能认为。
Tang Neng, a fund manager at Yinhua Fund, thinks.
建信基金权益投资部总经理助理兼研究部首席策略官陶灿表示，从不同行业来看，负面影响较大的板块有旅游、餐饮、交运、院线等，而云计算、游戏、5g等板块却获得了产业新机会。
According to Tao Tan, assistant general manager and chief strategic officer of research department of the Equity Investment Department of the CITIC Fund, the sectors with the biggest negative impact are tourism, catering, delivery, courtyard lines, etc., while cloud computing, games, 5g and other sectors have gained new industrial opportunities.
同时，一些行业的影响是暂时性的，比如制造、工程类，可能通过后期的赶工补回，但有些行业影响是持续性的，比如餐饮、旅游、交运等偏消费行业过了旺季，很难通过赶工完全弥补。
At the same time, the impact of some industries is temporary, such as manufacturing and engineering, which may be compensated for through late-stage rush-back, but some industry impacts are ongoing, such as catering, tourism, and delivery.
自2019年科创板成功设立，A股掀起了科技热潮，众多科技ETF涨势凶猛，其中国泰半导体50ETF年初至今涨幅已达52.99%，华夏5GETF上涨29.19%，华宝科技ETF上涨25.81%。
The ETF is up 52.99 per cent since the start of the year, while Cathay Pacific's 5GETF is up 29.19 per cent and Huabao ETF is 25.81 per cent higher.
随着估值不断提高，市场是否过热了？王德伦表示，总体上看，当行业景气度向上时，从估值和业绩的匹配度趋势上看，目前科技股的估值还处于合理的水平。
Does the market overheat as valuations continue to rise? In general, says Mr Wang, valuations of tech stocks are now at a reasonable level in terms of matching trends in valuations and performance when the industry is buoyant.
民生加银基金经理孙伟表示，尽管科技股在2019年有一定的涨幅，但也仅仅是开始，只要产业趋势确立，公司业绩能够持续较快增长，那么未来的投资收益率还会不错。
Sun Wei, a fund manager at the People's Bank of China, said that while technology stocks had risen somewhat in 2019, they were only the beginning of a long-term return on investment as long as industry trends were established and the company's performance continued to grow relatively fast.
对于短期内市场的快速反弹，和聚投资表示，如果短期出现一定的波动也是正常现象，当下市场的整体风险偏好还处在比较高的位置，科技股受疫情影响较小，甚至还有一些显著受益的领域，短期仍会是市场关注的重点。
For the short-term market rebound, Hutchison said that if short-term fluctuations are normal, the overall risk preferences are still relatively high, technology stocks are less affected by the epidemic, and even some areas of significant benefit, will remain the focus of market attention in the short term.
回首2003年，有观点认为，非典疫情加速了大众网购习惯的建立，与电商的崛起不无关系。
Looking back in 2003, there was a view that the SARS epidemic accelerated the establishment of mass-market buying habits, and the rise of electricity business is not unrelated.
而如今的新冠肺炎疫情又会带来哪些行业的爆发？科技驱动之下，一些工作、学习、娱乐方式也随之发生改变，并在疫情催化下爆发式生长，在线教育、在线办公、在线医疗、网络游戏、视频等成为了宅在家的生活需求，“宅经济”也成为资本市场上的宠儿。
Technology-driven changes in some forms of work, learning, and entertainment have led to the explosion of online education, online office, online health care, online games, video, etc., and the "home economy" has become a favorite in the capital markets.
春节期间娱乐板块抢先受益。
Entertainment plate benefits first during Spring Festival.
腾讯旗下手游《王者荣耀》在1月24日除夕当天的流水达到了20亿元，较2019年春节提升50％。
Tencent's hand-tour, "The Glory of the King," reached 2 billion yuan on January 24, a 50 percent increase over 2019.
社交软件的比拼中，阿里一直是腾讯的追赶者。
In the social software competition, Ali has been Tencent's pursuer.
当前疫情下，大多数公司选择远程办公，在线办公软件成为刚需。
Under the current epidemic, most companies choose telecommuting, online office software has become just needed.
根据App Store数据，钉钉成功超过微信成为免费榜第一。
According to the App Store data, the tack succeeded in overtaking the micromail as the number one free list.
随着学校全面延迟开学，线下培训机构全面停止，在线教育的春天终于到来。
The spring of online education has finally come as schools have been delayed across the board and offline training facilities have been shut down.
截至2月13日收盘，Wind数据显示，热门概念板块指数中，在线教育指数以14％位居市场前列，世纪天鸿（300654.SZ）、方直科技（300235.SZ）连续数日涨停。
As of February 13, Wind data showed that the online education index was at the top of the list of popular concepts, at 14%, with Century Tianhong (300654.SZ) and Founder Tech (300235.SZ) trading for a few days in a row.
更多在线教育概念股在境外迎来暴涨。
More online education concept units are experiencing a surge abroad.
有道（DAO.N）股价一度翻倍。
Shares in DAO.N have doubled for a while.
而跟谁学（GSX.N）、新东方在线（1797.HK）等最高涨幅也超90％。
Those with the highest gains were also 90 percent or more, such as GSX.N. or New Oriental Online (1797.HK).
“在家隔离的这段时间我自己切身感受到，在线教育、远程医疗、远程办公、游戏都处于持续爆发的状态。
"I personally experienced the constant outbursts of online education, telemedicine, telecommuting and gaming during this time of home isolation.
这个趋势可以持续，只是疫情加快了这个趋势。
This trend can be sustained, only accelerated by the epidemic.
”广发基金基金经理刘格菘在直播间里表示。
"Broadcast Fund Fund Manager Liu Ge woad said in the studio.
和聚投资也认为，这不是短期的机会，而是一个中长期的趋势方向。
Hutchison also believes that this is not a short-term opportunity, but a medium- to long-term trend.
这次疫情已经改变了大家的一些消费习惯，这会深刻地影响部分产业的发展节奏。
This epidemic has changed some of your consumption habits, which will profoundly affect the pace of development of some industries.
在线教育的爆发只是表象，5G时代来临才是本质。
The explosion of online education is a symptom, the 5G era is the essence.
东方证券表示，在4G时代游戏、直播、在线视频实现了渗透率的快速提升，在线教育却发展缓慢，与4G技术局限有关，随着5G时代的来临，在线教育将进入快速发展阶段。
Orient Securities said that while 4G-era games, live broadcasts and online video had led to a rapid increase in penetration, online education had been slow to develop and was related to the limitations of 4G technology, and online education was set to enter a period of rapid growth with the advent of the 5G era.
建信基金基金经理黄斐玉表示，以5G为代表的科技成长板块处于一个从基础设施到硬件创新，然后再到应用创新拉动的阶段，处于新一轮科技创新周期的起点，市场在实现资金的初步轮动之后，都在寻找一个能影响产业格局变化的大方向。
'The technology growth sector, represented by 5G, is at the beginning of a new cycle of science, technology and innovation, from infrastructure to hardware innovation to application of innovation, 'says Huang Feiyu, manager of the fund.
“从2020年到2021年，更多的机会将落在硬件的创新和应用的创新上，因此更看重5G应用在C端和B端的渗透，从而反过来推动硬件创新和基础设施建设，以及硬件和软件的国产化替代。
"From 2020 to 2021, more opportunities will fall on innovation in hardware innovation and applications, so more emphasis will be placed on 5G applications penetrating C and B, which in turn will drive hardware innovation and infrastructure development, as well as home-grown replacements for hardware and software."
”黄斐玉预测。
"Huang predicted.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
A股战“疫”上半场：万亿成交，科技领涨。
A-share battle "plague" in the first half: trillion transactions, led by technology.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "A股战“疫”上半场：万亿成交，科技领涨";。
var msg _ title = & quot; A & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "顶住开市压力，A股在大跌后逐渐修复，沪指重回3000点，创业板创下新高。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Against the start of the market, A shares recovered gradually after the crash, with Shanghai up to 3,000 and GEM at new highs.
未来中国的经济增长靠什么？不是靠短期";。
What does China's future growth depend on? Not with AT & quot; s service.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
