病毒学家金冬雁：治愈患者短期内二次患病几乎不可能。
Virologist Geese Geese: It is almost impossible to cure a second disease in the short term.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 晚点LatePost。
The following article comes from the late LatePost.
Author 晚点团队。
Author late team.
晚点LatePost。
Late LatePost.
晚一点，好一点。
Later. Better.
这是《财经》杂志与小晚团队联合推出的新品牌。
This is Caijing magazine and the evening team jointly launched the new brand.
全部一手采访，没有二手信息。
All hands-on interviews, no second-hand information.
做你最信任的商业新闻媒体。
Be the business press you trust most.
。
.
“用激素治病毒病完全是饮鸩止渴，后患无穷。
"Hormone treatment of viral diseases is completely drinking poison, after endless disaster.
SARS、MERS或者现在 COVID-19，用激素后看起来立竿见影。
SARS, MERS, or now COVID-19, look instant with hormones.
可治标不治本，病毒会飙上来，医护人员受感染的机会也因此提高。
It cures symptoms rather than causes, causes viruses to surge up, and increases the risk of infection for health-care workers.
甚至有一些人，接受激素治疗后有可能变成超级传播者，这非常危险。
There are even people who, after hormone therapy, may become super-carriers, which is very dangerous.
”文 |《财经》杂志记者 纪麓编辑 | 宋玮无数次历史经验证明，对抗疫情最好的办法就是科学和真相。
Sung Wei's countless historical experiences with Caijing magazine show that the best way to combat the epidemic is through science and the truth.
新型冠状病毒（SARS-CoV-2）在武汉引起疫情后不久，香港大学袁国勇教授带领团队开始研究家庭群组的聚集感染。
Professor Yuan Guoyong of the University of Hong Kong led a team to study the cluster infection in family groups shortly after the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in Wuhan.
研究发现在家庭内密切接触的情况下病毒攻击率很高，整个家庭中有83%的成员受到感染。
The study found a high rate of virus attacks in close family contact, with 83 per cent of the entire household infected.
该研究报告于1月24日发表在《柳叶刀》杂志上，在国际上首次提供确凿证据，说明此病毒不仅能够人传人，而且在此阶段其人传人的能力非常强。
The study, published in The Lancet on 24 January, provides the first international conclusive evidence that the virus can be passed on not only from person to person, but also from person to person at this stage.
当时港大的研究已经发出了明确信号——出现家庭内聚集感染的风险很高。
By then, the HKU study had sent a clear signal that there was a high risk of intrafamilial infection.
可就在1月28日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控方案（第三版）》规定，规定称：如当地发生强度较大流行，医疗资源紧张时，轻症病例和无症状感染者可采取居家治疗和观察。
But on January 28, the National Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Prevention and Control Program (3rd Edition)," said: "If the local intensity of the epidemic, medical resources tight, light cases and asymptomatic infected people can take home treatment and observation.
研究团队当时还找到一名无明显症状但肺CT有轻度异常而痰液中检出病毒核酸的感染者，首次敲响无症感染传播病毒的警钟。
The team also found an infected person with mild pulmonary CT abnormalities and detected viral nucleic acids in sputum, the first time the disease-free infection spread the virus.
为国家果断应对疫情提供了重要的科学依据。
It provides an important scientific basis for the country to deal with the epidemic decisively.
此后武汉多个病患案例证明，与确诊患者密切接触的家庭成员也相继发病。
Since then, Wuhan patients in a number of cases proved that close contact with the confirmed patient family members have also been affected.
而各地因家庭聚集而集中确诊的病例更层出不穷。
The number of cases diagnosed centrally due to family agglomeration is increasing everywhere.
2月21日，国家卫健委发布第五版防控方案，新版方案修正为：无症状感染者应当集中隔离14天。
On 21 February, the National Board of Health issued the fifth edition of the Prevention and Control Programme, which was amended to read that asymptomatic infected persons should be concentrated in isolation for 14 days.
武汉“封城”至今近一个月，暴露出中国医疗体系以及传染病防治的某些短板。
Wuhan "closed city" for nearly a month now, exposed China's medical system and the prevention and treatment of certain short board.
这体现在公布疫情的及时性、医疗资源的调配上，也体现在研究领域的多个方面：包括高水平临床研究的稀缺；高水平流行病学研究的缺位；诊断试剂与药物研究技术储备不足；医疗救治、疫控及病毒学研究是拧成一股绳、共同作战，还是各自忙碌，缺乏沟通？病毒学家金冬雁对此深有体会。
This is reflected in the timeliness of disease disclosure, the deployment of medical resources, and the scarcity of high-level clinical research; the absence of high-level epidemiological studies; the insufficient availability of diagnostic reagents and drug research techniques; and whether medical, epidemiological and virological research is integrated into a single strand, or whether they are busy and lack communication.
他从2003年以来坚持对冠状病毒的研究。
He has been working on the coronavirus since 2003.
他回忆17年前SARS疫情暴发后，“中国可能有成千上万个科学家在研究冠状病毒”，但SARS消失后“研究也停止了，跟风赶潮流的多而坚持下来的极少，充分显示一些中国学者的浮躁和急功近利”。
He recalled that after the SARS outbreak 17 years ago, "there may have been thousands of scientists studying coronavirus in China," but after SARS disappeared, "research has also stopped and there have been very few that have followed the trend, fully demonstrating the impetuous and rapid progress of some Chinese scholars."
他说。
'he said.
金冬雁是香港大学李嘉诚医学院生物医学学院教授，也是中国自己培养的分子病毒学家。
Golden goose is a professor of biomedical sciences at Li Ka-shing Medical School of the University of Hong Kong and a molecular virologist trained by China.
1982年他考入中山大学生物化学专业；其后他在中国预防医学科学院攻读医学博士，并留在病毒学研究所工作；之后他去美国国家卫生研究院从事博士后研究；1999年回到中国，在香港大学任教至今。
He studied biochemistry at Zhongshan University in 1982; then studied medicine at the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine and stayed at the Institute of Virology. He then went to the National Institutes of Health to do postdoctoral research.
他多年来致力于肿瘤病毒分子生物学及病毒与细胞相互作用的研究，成为相关领域内国际公认的学术带头人之一。
He has been working on molecular biology of oncology and virus-cell interaction for many years and has become one of the internationally recognized academic leaders in related fields.
2020年他刚刚当选美国微生物科学院院士。
He was elected to the American Academy of Microbial Sciences in 2020.
金冬雁说，在英美医疗体系里，微生物学科和病理学科具有举足轻重的地位。
In the Anglo-American medical system, microbiology and pathology play an important role, says Geese.
但我国医院内的微生物学、传染病学及病理学专家则未能对其他各科以至整个医院发挥指导作用。
But the microbiology, infectious diseases and pathology experts in our hospitals have not been able to guide other subjects and even the whole hospital.
包括这次疫情中，呼吁了很久才开始进行的尸检工作，便是上述忽视病理学问题的直接体现。
Including this outbreak, the long-awaited autopsy is a direct manifestation of the above-mentioned neglect of pathology.
病毒是可怕的。
The virus is terrible.
人类本不该一次次重蹈覆辙。
Mankind should not repeat the same mistakes time and again.
以下是《财经》对金冬雁教授的专访：“康复者马上再感染，是违背病毒学和免疫学基本原理的。
The following is Caijing's interview with Professor Jin Dongyan: "It is against the basic principles of virology and immunology for a convalescent person to reinfect immediately.
”《财经》：最近有新闻称病愈出院者二次患病，检测结果是双阳。
Caijing: Recently there was news that people who had been discharged from the hospital had been sickened a second time and tested positive.
有人推测是SARS-CoV-2病毒发生了某些变异，作为病毒学研究专家，你的看法是？金冬雁：康复者马上再感染，这是完全违背病毒学和免疫学基本原理的。
As an expert in virology, your opinion is that golden goose: The convalescent person immediately reinfects, which is completely contrary to the basic principles of virology and immunology.
人体对抗病毒靠免疫反应，免疫反应产生后再遇到病毒会被激发，不会在短时间内迅速消退。
The human body depends on the immune response to the virus, immune response after the emergence of the virus will be activated, not quickly subside.
至少6个月、一年内不会再受感染。
At least 6 months, no more infections within a year.
SARS-CoV-2病毒的变异率明显低于SARS-CoV，没有任何证据说明它会迅速变异导致出现免疫逃逸。
The mutation rate of the SARS-CoV-2 virus is significantly lower than that of SARS-CoV, and there is no evidence that it will mutate rapidly enough to cause immune escape.
钟南山院士团队2006年的研究表明，SARS康复病人体内至少两年内仍可检测到具有保护作用的IgG中和抗体。
A 2006 study by the team of academicians in Zhong Nan Shan showed that protective IgG neutralizing antibodies could still be detected in patients recovering from SARS for at least two years.
可以推断SARS-CoV的情况应与此类似。
A similar situation can be inferred for SARS-CoV.
（注：IgG抗体是保护性中和抗体,代表你感染过相应抗原。
(Note: IgG antibody is a protective neutralizing antibody, which means you have been infected with the corresponding antigen.
）治愈者或高或低都有抗体。
) The healer has either high or low antibodies.
再次遇到同样或者十分相似的抗原时，抗体免疫系统受到激发，还会大量产生抗体。
When confronted again with the same or very similar antigen, the antibody immune system is stimulated, and a large number of antibodies are produced.
采用治愈者的抗体救治重症患者，是可行的办法之一。
Using antibody of cure person to cure serious patient, it is one of feasible method.
如果说治愈者还能马上再受感染，近乎不可思议。
It is almost inconceivable that the healer should be infected again at once.
真如此那也不必再研究疫苗。
That's true and there's no need to study vaccines.
我们从事疫苗研究的人常说，最好的疫苗就是不发病或症状极为轻微的感染。
As we in vaccine research have often said, the best vaccine is one that is free from disease or has extremely mild symptoms.
如果实际感染都没有保护作用，那疫苗也不会有用。
If the actual infection has no protective effect, the vaccine will not be useful.
《财经》：国家卫健委新冠病毒诊疗方案提出“血清疗法”，就是用已治愈者血清里的抗体来治疗重症患者。
Caijing: The National Health Care Commission's new crown virus diagnosis and treatment program proposes "seroprevalence therapy," that is, the use of antibodies in the serum of cured people to treat serious patients.
金冬雁：用病人的恢复期血清来治疗重症的病人，这是屡试必爽的，值得一试。
Golden goose: The patient's convalescent serum to treat serious patients, this is always good, worth a try.
抗体疗法就跟病毒感染后期病毒被人体正常产生的抗体所清除的原理是一样的，不同的只是借用别人身体所产生的抗体，所以又称为被动免疫。
Antibody therapy is the same principle that viruses are eliminated by the body's normal antibodies in the latter stages of viral infection, except for the use of antibodies produced by other bodies, which is also called passive immunity.
与此相对，接种疫苗后产生抗体中和病毒，则是主动免疫。
In contrast, vaccination produces an antibody to neutralize the virus, which is active immunity.
被动与主动免疫，都可以达到抑制和清除病毒的目标。
Both passive and active immunity can achieve the goal of suppression and elimination of virus.
但“血清疗法”也是有副作用的，血清里面可能有未知的病原，也可能有致敏原可引起过敏反应。
But "serum therapy" also has side effects, serum may have unknown pathogens, or allergens can cause allergic reactions.
用别人的抗体性质跟输血类似，就是应急，只适用于危重病人。
Using other people's antibody nature is similar to blood transfusion, is emergency, only suitable for critically ill patients.
《财经》：四川省新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组成员雷学忠曾表示，病愈后再确诊的病例“更大可能是少数病毒的持续残留”。
Caijing: Lei Xuezhong, a member of the Sichuan team of experts on treating the disease, said cases diagnosed after the illness were "more likely to be persistent remnants of a few viruses."
学术上是否存在“病毒残留”这种说法？金冬雁：病毒持续残留不是科学语言。
Is there a "viral residue" in academia? Geese: Continued viral residue is not the scientific language.
如果是持续性感染，除非病人是免疫缺损，否则可能性极低。
In the case of persistent infection, the likelihood is very low unless the patient has an immune deficiency.
理论上病人无症后可能通过粪便或肠道经常排病毒一段时间，过去也有一些报道。
In theory, patients who have no disease may often pass the virus through the faeces or intestines for some time, and there have been reports in the past.
但这种情况很少，现在也不是这种情况，不应以猎奇的心理去放大。
But this kind of circumstance is rare, present also is not this kind of situation, should not enlarge with the psychology of seeking a novelty.
《财经》：你认为病人“二次复发”最可能的原因是什么?金冬雁：最可能就是出院时没测准，承认这一点是最直接了当。
Caijing: What do you think is the most likely reason for a patient's "second relapse"? Geese: Probably the most straightforward thing to admit is that I didn't know exactly when I left hospital.
病愈时核酸检测可能是假阴性，或者病毒载量降低后由于试剂灵敏度及取样等关系没检出。
Nucleic acid testing may be false-negative when the disease recovers, or the viral load may not be detected due to reagent sensitivity and sampling.
如果要排除没测准的概率，应同时测抗体，比如，抗体有四倍以上增高才是进入恢复期。
If the probability of uncertainty is excluded, antibodies should be measured at the same time. For example, more than four times higher antibodies are in recovery.
最好的办法是量产抗体试剂作辅助诊断，用其他奇奇怪怪的理由去解释，根本违背常理。
The best way to do this is to produce antibody reagents for auxiliary diagnosis, and to explain them with other strange reasons, which is contrary to common sense.
《财经》：新冠肺炎治愈者是否存在后遗症？金冬雁：目前看不会比SARS更严重。
Caijing: Is there a hangover in the Crowne Pneumonia curer? Geese: It's not going to be worse than SARS at the moment.
SARS的后遗症实际很多是激素治疗后遗症，而不是SARS本身的后遗症。
Many of the sequelae of SARS are the sequelae of hormone therapy, not of SARS itself.
以SARS为例，绝大多数患者都可完全康复，只是重症患者完全康复的时间更长一些。
With SARS, for example, the vast majority of patients recover completely, although patients with severe illnesses recover longer.
《财经》：我们现在掌握的信息，有治愈患者肺部纤维化仍存在。
Caijing: The information we have now is that there is still a cure for pulmonary fibrosis.
金冬雁：肺部纤维化确实不可逆转，也无药可治。
Geese: Pulmonary fibrosis is indeed irreversible, and there is no cure.
但过往研究表明，SARS-CoV感染所产生的肺局部纤维化还是可以被吸收被清除，最后完全自愈，只是需要一定的时间。
But previous studies have shown that local pulmonary fibrosis from SARS-CoV infection can still be absorbed and removed, and eventually completely self-healing, but only over time.
重症及年长患者恢复更慢，但大部分人都是能够百分百完全恢复的。
The recovery is slower for the seriously ill and the elderly, but most people are able to fully recover.
《财经》：为什么此次新冠病毒肺炎感染者会呈现前期症状不明显、潜伏期长、传染性强而致死率相对较低的特性？金冬雁：病毒跟宿主之间是相互作用相互拮抗的关系，我比喻它为“拔河”。
Caijing: Why do people infected with Caijing-Pneumonia show less obvious symptoms, long latency, high infectivity and relatively low mortality? Geese: The interaction between virus and host is antagonistic, and I call it tug-of-war.
这个过程中，病毒和宿主彼此要适应——病毒适应人，或者人适应病毒。
In this process, viruses and their hosts adapt to each other - viruses adapt to people, or humans adapt to viruses.
有人说病毒很狡猾，这个说法并不恰当，因为病毒进化的自然规律就是这样。
Some people say the virus is cunning, which is not appropriate, because the natural law of virus evolution.
病毒的传染性变强，它的致病性就转弱。
As the virus becomes more infectious, its pathogenicity weakens.
可以说这就是病毒逐渐适应人体的过程，并不意味着这个病毒有多特别。
It can be said that this is the gradual adaptation of the virus to the body process, does not mean that the virus has special.
相反，传染性弱的病毒，致病性则比较强，这是一般规律。
In contrast, the infectious weak virus, the pathogenicity is stronger, this is the general rule.
此病毒感染时前期症状不明显，甚至出现无症感染者，确实为防疫带来很大挑战。
This virus infection in the early stages of symptoms are not obvious, or even the emergence of disease-free infected persons, really brought great challenges for epidemic prevention.
目前一个重中之重的任务，不是继续争论这些现象是否存在，而是迅速查明它们在病毒实际传播中的意义和作用。
A top priority now is not to continue to debate the existence of these phenomena, but to quickly identify their significance and role in the actual spread of the virus.
具体来说，就是要搞清楚这些情况在整体中占多少比例，他们的传染性是否较弱，以及被这些感染者传染的病人是否症状也较轻微。
Specifically, it is important to know what proportion of these conditions are overall, whether they are less contagious, and whether patients infected by these infections have mild symptoms.
我再补充说明一点，此病毒感染的潜伏期与SARS-CoV和MERS-CoV类似，一般不超过一星期。
Let me add that the incubation period for this virus infection is similar to that of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV and generally does not exceed one week.
目前并无证据表明其潜伏期特别长。
There is no evidence of an unusually long incubation period.
《财经》：大家都在讨论病毒的变异性，它在短期内是否有变异出另外一种形态的可能性？金冬雁：肯定有变异。
Caijing: Everybody is talking about the variability of the virus. Is there any chance that it will mutate into another shape in the short term?
但它的突变率和SARS-CoV比，相对较低。
But its mutation rate is relatively low compared to that of SARS-CoV.
SARS-CoV的源头是蝙蝠，蝙蝠非常适应这种病毒，但这种病毒可能不太适应高等哺乳类。
The source of SARS-CoV is bats, which are well adapted to the virus, but which may not be well adapted to higher mammals.
MERS-CoV的中间宿主是骆驼，骆驼有发病但不严重，说明该病毒已经比较适应骆驼。
The intermediate host of MERS-CoV is the camel, which has a mild, though not serious, presence, indicating that the virus has become more adapted to camels.
但它感染人体引起的症状就非常严重，推断它在人类中仍未充分适应。
But the symptoms caused by its infection are so severe that it is assumed to have not yet been fully adapted in humans.
那么SARS-CoV-2是不是也经过了一个中间宿主，可能已经比较适应这个中间宿主，而这个未知的中间宿主也可能与人类比较接近。
Does SARS-CoV-2 also pass through an intermediate host that may have adapted to this intermediate host, and this unknown intermediate host may also be closer to humans.
所以SARS-CoV-2的突变率较低？这是一种推测。
So the mutation rate of SARS-CoV-2 is low? That's a guess.
《财经》：这是否意味着它几乎不会变成更致命的一种病毒？金冬雁：从进化角度来说，进化是要对病毒自身有利。
Caijing: Does that mean it hardly becomes a more deadly virus? Geese: Evolution is evolutionary to the advantage of the virus itself.
它变成更强的病毒，并不对自身有利，因为它把宿主杀光了，自己也无处藏身无法繁衍。
It becomes a stronger virus and does not benefit itself, because it kills the host and has nowhere else to hide.
变异成特别凶恶、毒力很高的病毒，这是意外，不符合一般规律，其可能性很低。
The mutation into a particularly vicious and virulent virus is accidental, inconsistent with general rules, and highly unlikely.
从研究结果来看，从香港患者身上检测出来的毒株和武汉患者毒株差6个核苷酸，这说明变化很少。
According to the results, there was a difference of 6 nucleotides between the virulent strains detected in Hong Kong patients and those in Wuhan, suggesting little change.
整个SARS-CoV-2病毒有3万核苷酸，6个只占极小的比例。
The entire SARS-CoV-2 virus has 30, 000 nucleotides, 6 of which account for only a tiny fraction.
（注：核苷酸是病毒的遗传物质，控制病毒的复制和决定病毒特性。
(Note: Nucleotides are the genetic material of the virus, controlling its replication and determining its characteristics.
）“不是说病毒消失了我们就胜利了，它不消失我们就失败了。
"" It doesn't mean we win when the virus disappears, we fail if it doesn't.
”《财经》：疫情的拐点可能何时到来？到来的标志是什么？金冬雁：最主要是先掌握实情，疫区的真实情况如何，到底“敌人”有多强大。
Caijing: When may the inflection point of the epidemic come? What is the sign of its arrival? The most important thing is to know the truth first, what is the real situation in the affected area and how powerful the "enemy" really is.
什么时候到顶，这个我预测不了，不能拍胸脯说，这个东西哪天可能到高峰到拐点。
When to reach the top, I can not predict this, can not clap your chest, this thing may one day reach the peak to the inflection point.
这是因为到现在我并不掌握第一手的实际情况，所以心中没有底。
This is because I do not know the actual situation first-hand, so there is no bottom in my heart.
如果还有很多人现在都没有诊断出来，有很多无症状感染者，他自己不觉得得病，喉咙痛了一下就过了，可能已经传染给别人了，这是十分危险的。
If there are a lot of people who are not diagnosed, and there are many asymptomatic infections, he doesn't feel sick himself, a sore throat goes by and may have passed on to someone else, which is very dangerous.
现在的实际情况非常不明，不查清楚怎么设定防控策略？未来只有两种情况，一是病毒在人类完全消失了，像SARS-CoV一样，虽然致病性不低，但没有在人体里落地生根；另一种情况，就是病毒完全适应了人类，传染性高但致病性低，成为另一种社区获得性人类冠状病毒。
There are only two scenarios for the future: the virus completely disappears like the SARS-CoV, but it does not take root in the human body. On the other hand, the virus is well adapted to humans, highly infectious but less pathogenic, and becomes another community-acquired coronavirus.
如果真出现这种情况，我们依靠疫苗同样可以将SARS-CoV-2病毒在人体内完全消灭，就像我们利用疫苗消灭天花病毒和脊髓灰质炎病毒一样。
If that were to happen, we would also be able to eliminate the SARS-CoV-2 virus completely in humans with a vaccine, just as we do with the smallpox virus and the polio virus.
《财经》：病毒完全消失和完全适应人类，你的判断是？金冬雁：实际上会消失或者不会消失，都没什么了不起。
Caijing: Viruses completely disappear and completely adapt to humans, your judgment is? Goose: It doesn't matter if it actually disappears or doesn't disappear.
不是说它消失了我们就胜利了，它不消失我们就失败了。
It doesn't mean we win when it disappears, we lose if it doesn't disappear.
这两种情况我们都要做好充分准备，各有相应策略去应对。
In both cases, we should be fully prepared and have our own strategies to deal with them.
只要应对得当，人类在任何一种情况下仍然可以取得最后的完全的胜利。
Mankind can still achieve a final and complete victory in any situation, provided that he responds appropriately.
《财经》：如果后一种情况发生，人类将面对什么？金冬雁：那就要在病毒变弱之前，竭尽全力把尽可能多的危重患者从鬼门关救回来。
Caijing: If the latter happens, what will the human race face? Geese: Before the virus weakens, try your best to get as many critically ill people back from the dead as possible.
现在大概有10%－20%的人出现重症，需要使用ICU，致死率是2%、1%或更小，武汉大概是3%。
About 10 to 20 percent of the population is now seriously ill, requiring the use of ICU. The death rate is 2 percent, 1 percent or less, and Wuhan is about 3 percent.
我们要把危重病人及早识别出来，把这些人命救回来，这是现在临床最大的任务。
We need to identify the critically ill people early, to save these lives, this is now the biggest clinical task.
人命关天。
Human lives are at stake.
《财经》：目前疫情已经在全球蔓延，包括在气候炎热的国家。
Caijing: The epidemic is already spreading around the world, including in countries with hot climates.
之前人们期盼它像SARS疫情一样随着天气变热而消失，是否不可能发生了？金冬雁：SARS-CoV是由于防控隔离等措施慢慢发挥作用，而且病毒在人类传代后传播力也有所减弱，所以在天气变热之前疫情退却。
Is it impossible that it will go away with the heat like the SARS epidemic? Geese: SARS-CoV is a slow-acting disease due to containment and quarantine measures, and the spread of the virus is reduced after human transmission, so the disease recedes before the weather gets hotter.
从动物跨越种间屏障传播到人的病毒，常常会由于未知的原因，自然而然地消失。
Viruses that spread from animals across inter-species barriers to humans often disappear spontaneously for unknown reasons.
至于消失的原因，温度未必是关键。
As for the cause of disappearance, temperature is not necessarily the key.
新加坡气温一直较高，但SARS-CoV-2仍有一定传播。
Singapore has been experiencing relatively high temperatures, but SARS-CoV-2 is still spreading.
SARS-CoV-2在人类传到第三四代或更多代，传播力到底是不是减弱，致病性又有没有变化，都十分值得关注，应花大气力尽早摸清情况。
The spread of SARS-CoV-2 from humans to the third and subsequent generations is of great concern. Great efforts should be made to ascertain the situation as soon as possible.
如果病毒传播力确实减弱而各方面防控措施也发挥作用，疫情仍然可能无疾而终。
If the virus transmission is indeed reduced and all aspects of control work, the outbreak may still be undone.
历史上类似的情况在其他病毒性传染病也出现过多次，例如艾滋病毒从灵长类跳到人，十几次中只有三四次成功。
Historical parallels have been repeated for other viral infections, such as HIV jumping from primate to human, with only three or four of a dozen successes.
但今天病毒在武汉爆发，现在已经有5、6万人感染。
But today the virus has broken out in Wuhan, and 50,000 to 60,000 people have been infected.
人们开始都笑话管轶教授说10倍起跳，我却认为他有他的道理。
People started to joke about Professor Guan Yi saying that he takes off ten times, but I think he has his reasons.
现在回过头看，起码他这个预见是对的，真是10倍起跳。
Looking back now, at least he was right about this prediction. It was a ten-fold jump.
如果感染人数到了一定量级，只能等待群体免疫，等到30%、40%以至更多人都有抗体的情况下，就会有传播阻力，而且越来越大，最后根本传不起来，自然就阻断了。
If the number of infections reaches a certain level, waiting for the group to be immunized, when 30 per cent, 40 per cent and even more people have antibodies, there will be resistance to transmission, and it will grow so large that it will not spread at all and will naturally break down.
如果守不住，将来就得靠疫苗了。
If you can't keep it, you'll have to rely on vaccines.
“不把基本情况摸清，搞什么策略都是无本之木，”《财经》：此次疫情是否会在全球大规模爆发？金冬雁：病毒在很多国家及地区的传播仍是早期，不好说。
"If we don't know the basic situation, we will have no strategy," Caijing said. "Can we expect a massive global outbreak of the disease?
《财经》：目前不同国家和地区对待新冠的策略很不一样，国内是强制隔离，日本则不主张隔离，新加坡的防控也相对宽松。
Caijing: At present, different countries and regions treat the new crown very differently, there is forced segregation at home, Japan does not advocate segregation, and Singapore's control is relatively loose.
金冬雁：不同的决策，殊途同归。
Geese: Different decisions make the same way.
中国香港是尽量堵截，堵截不了就尽量拖慢病毒的蔓延速度。
Hong Kong, China is trying to intercept the virus to stop the spread of the virus as slow as possible.
新加坡说，如果传播到一定程度我们就弃守，不再追踪密切接触者，专注于救治危重病人。
Singapore said that if spread to a certain extent, we would abandon close contacts and focus on treating critically ill people.
因为所有病毒性疾病的爆发流行都有规律可循，有一些是很难挡住的。
Because all viral outbreaks have a regular pattern, some are difficult to stop.
《财经》：钻石公主号选择全员在船上隔离，结果从1人感染到全船621人感染，这是否是个错误的决策？金冬雁：事后看船上隔离效果确实不好，但问题出在哪还是要先查清，具体情况再具体分析。
Caijing: Is it a mistake for the Princess Diamond to isolate all her crew on the ship, from one person infected to 621 people infected? Goose: It's not good to look at the ship's isolation after the fact, but the problem is still to find out.
是不是你把船上的人放到岸上去隔离就好呢？不好说。
I wonder if you could just put the people on the boat ashore to be quarantined?
如果隔离方法不对，无论在船上还是在岸上，效果都不会好。
If the isolation method is not right, the effect will not be good either on board the ship or on shore.
《财经》：如何看待钻石公主号上高达17%的感染率？金冬雁：过去香港淘大花园发生过SARS-CoV的超级传播事件。
Caijing: What do you think of the 17% infection rate on the Princess Diamond? Geese: There was a SARS-CoV superepidemic in Taobao Garden in Hong Kong in the past.
首先源头的肾透析病人可能因为免疫抑制而释放大量病毒，然后可能通过污水管道形成气溶胶传播。
The first source of kidney dialysis patients may release a large number of viruses as a result of immunosuppression, which may then form aerosol transmission through sewage lines.
现在的钻石公主号应该也是有超级传播者，至于受病毒污染的究竟是通风、排污、食品还是其他什么东西，是不是气溶胶传播，都有待查明。
Now the Princess Diamond should also have super-disseminators, as to whether the virus pollution is ventilation, sewage, food or other things, whether aerosol transmission is still to be ascertained.
你把人关在那儿，说是隔离，但一直还是每天50例、60例、100例新增，实际上这种隔离没起到作用。
You keep people there, isolated, but you still have 50 cases, 60 cases, 100 new cases a day, and in fact it doesn't work.
同样来看武汉，病毒到底是通过什么方式在传播？是家庭内传播、医院内传播、还是社区内甚至楼上楼下传播，还是通过粪渠、垃圾、通风系统？你不把这个情况摸清，两眼一抓瞎，是非常危险的。
In Wuhan, too, how is the virus spreading? Within the family, in the hospital, in the community and even upstairs and downstairs, or through a dung canal, garbage, ventilation system?
现在据报道已经有抗原抗体检测试剂，应该尽快把这个量产，真正实现一滴血很快就可以查出患者的抗原抗体。
It is now reported that antigen antibody detection reagents should be produced as soon as possible, a real drop of blood can be quickly identified in patients antigen antibodies.
有IgG抗体的可能是过去受过感染，有抗原的或者有IgM抗体的则是正在受感染。
Those with IgG antibodies may have been infected in the past, those with antigens or those with IgM antibodies are being infected.
（注：IgM抗体是灵长类动物感染后最先出现的抗体。
(Note: IgM antibodies are the first antibodies to appear after primate infection.
）现在做核酸检测技术难度大，那我们应该赶紧把抗原抗体检测试剂做好，通过抗原抗体检测把基本情况摸清，否则搞什么策略都是无本之木。
) Nucleic acid testing technology is difficult now, we should quickly do a good job of antigen antibody detection reagent, through antigen antibody detection to understand the basic situation, otherwise any strategy is useless.
《财经》：给所有确诊和疑似患者都做抗原抗体检测，这个工作量太大。
Caijing: Antigen antibody testing is done for all confirmed and suspected patients, which is too much work.
金冬雁：我们要解剖麻雀，可以从几个代表性居民小区或单位做起。
Golden goose: We want anatomical sparrow, can start from a few representative residential areas or units.
应该组织力量把这个基本疫情摸清楚，实事求是，再来设计甚至改变防控的策略。
We should organize efforts to understand this basic epidemic, seek truth from facts, and then design and even change the strategy of prevention and control.
检测对象不仅包括确诊和疑似病人，还应包括小区或单位中的所有健康人。
The object of testing should include not only the diagnosed and suspected patients, but also all healthy people in the community or unit.
通过检测查清有多少人受过感染已恢复，多少人正受感染，以及多少人无症或轻症带病毒。
The tests identified how many people have recovered from the infection, how many are being infected, and how many are free of disease or mildly infected.
我们的防控策略需要因应实际情况来设定及修改。
Our prevention and control strategies need to be tailored to the actual situation.
例如在受感染比例较高的情况下，就不能再大量集中隔离密切接触者，因为在感染者已经很多的情况下，集中隔离密切接触者就不再有意义。
For example, in the case of high rates of infection, it is no longer possible to focus heavily on isolating close contacts, which is no longer relevant when the number of infected persons is already high.
他占着床位，真正中症或者重症的病人就无法收治。
He occupies a bed and cannot be admitted to a truly ill or seriously ill patient.
《财经》：为什么湖北地区的病死率远高于其他地区？金冬雁：目前看到的数据里，湖北以外的死亡率大概0.6%的样子。
Caijing: Why is the death rate much higher in Hubei than in other areas? Geese: The death rate outside Hubei is about 0.6% according to current data.
流感的住院病死率有2%到3%，从绝对数字来讲，流感死的人也不少。
In-patient deaths from influenza range from 2% to 3%, and the absolute number of flu deaths is high.
我们一般认为，湖北省外的情况是比较接近真实的，因为医疗资源丰富，很多地方拼命把所有的患者都找出来了。
We generally believe that the situation outside Hubei Province is relatively close to reality, as medical resources are abundant and many places are desperately trying to find all the patients.
就是说如果我们功夫做到家，是可以降低病死率的。
Which means that if we work hard at home, we can reduce the fatality rate.
武汉为什么致死率更高，有可能是重症的治疗不及时不恰当，包括有些可能是激素造成的继发感染致死；实际上武汉计算病死率的分母可能要大得多，因为有大批的人可能还没诊断出来，他无症或者非常轻症，根本没就医。
Wuhan why the death rate is higher, may be that the treatment of serious illness is not timely and appropriate, including some may be hormone-caused secondary infection death; in fact, Wuhan may calculate the fatality rate much larger, because a large number of people may not have been diagnosed, he is not sick or very mild, and no medical treatment at all.
很多可能已经痊愈，只能通过检测抗体才能查出来。
Many may have recovered and can only be detected by detection of antibodies.
正因为如此，现在没条件创造条件也要赶紧摸清实际情况，确定后才能按照实情重新判断。
Because of this, it is not possible to create the conditions to quickly ascertain the actual situation, after the determination of the facts can be re-judged.
《财经》：你如何看待武汉封城，假如早半个月、早十天封城，会如何？金冬雁：封的时候公共医疗体系已经超负荷了。
Caijing: What do you think of Wuhan Fengcheng if it is closed half a month early or ten days earlyGeese: The public medical system was overloaded when it was sealed.
一开始还是流感高峰，很多人是得了流感跑去医院，结果被少数的SARS-CoV-2病毒感染者传染。
Initially, it was the height of the flu, with many people coming to the hospital with the flu and being infected by a small number of people infected with SARS-CoV-2.
封城肯定是有用的。
Sealing the city is definitely useful.
但是作用在哪？这个作用是把病毒消灭了，还是只是把病毒传播拖慢？更多专家觉得是拖慢了。
But where does it work? Does it kill the virus, or just slow it down? More experts think it's a drag.
封城成功的地方在于阻止病毒从武汉和湖北流出。
The success of the city lies in stopping the flow of the virus from Wuhan and Hubei.
我们封城，阻止人员流动，效果如何？有多少人实际上是无症感染？有多少人是轻症感染？有多少人实际上在感染但没有就医？现在是很多问题都没搞清楚。
How effective are we in blocking the movement of people? How many people are actually asymptomatic? How many are mildly infected? How many are actually infected but not treated? Many questions remain unclear.
封城后病毒还在传播，到底是怎么传，主管部门要动起来，组织疾控及其他力量，花大力气解剖麻雀，把原因给搞清楚，我们无论如何也不能放弃武汉。
After the closure of the city the virus is still spreading, the competent authorities to move, organize the disease control and other forces, the anatomical sparrow to understand the reasons, we can not give up Wuhan on any account.
“真正高水平的临床研究是很重要的，也是我们现在最缺的。
"Really high levels of clinical research are important and we are most in need of them.
”《财经》：你经历过SARS疫情，相比之下，这次疫情防控上有何进步？还有什么不足？金冬雁：有很多进步的地方，比如很快就把病毒分离出来，测定序列，和全世界分享等等。
Caijing: What progress has been made in the prevention and control of the SARS epidemic compared to the SARS epidemic? What are the shortcomings? Geese: There are many advances, such as quickly isolating the virus, sequencing and sharing it with the rest of the world.
不足之处，也是最最重要的，是基础跟临床，临床跟疾控，整个配合不够。
Deficiencies, but also the most important, is the basis and clinical, clinical and disease control, the whole cooperation is not enough.
CDC（中国疾控中心）、卫健委和地方政府的职权不够分明。
The powers of the CDC, CHRC and local governments are not clear enough.
CDC上面有疾控局，疾控局上面有卫健委，这里面的关系没有理清。
CDC above the disease control bureau, CDC above the health committee, this relationship is not clear.
从疫情爆发到1月20日这段时间，决策出了一些问题，造成了两到三周的耽误，这是一个非常惨痛的教训。
The period between the outbreak and 20 January was marked by problems in decision-making, resulting in delays of between two and three weeks, which was a very painful lesson.
将来一定要好好总结。
Be sure to take stock in the future.
《财经》：根据你的观察，此次疫情给医疗体系和传染病防治体系带来哪些启示？金冬雁：这应该等到疫情结束，或者是告一段落时认真总结，现在还在进行当中。
Caijing: According to your observation, what are the implications of this outbreak for the health care system and infectious disease control system? Geese: It should wait until the epidemic is over, or when it is over, and it is still in progress.
目前来看，方方面面各自为政，配合较差。
At present, the various aspects are fragmented, poor coordination.
医院由医政医管局主管，跟疾控及病毒学研究没有拧成一股绳。
The hospital is headed by the Hospital Authority and is not integrated with disease control and virology research.
基础做基础，临床做临床，疾控做疾控，大家各不往来。
Base on the foundation, clinical do clinical, disease control to do disease control, we do not exchange.
从研究的角度来讲，香港大学在深圳医院做了家庭群组研究，1月24日就提出在家庭密切接触下病毒的攻击率很高，家庭成员83%中招。
In terms of research, the University of Hong Kong (HKU) conducted a family group study at Shenzhen Hospital. On January 24, the University of Hong Kong proposed a high rate of virus attacks in close family contact with 83% of family members.
研究团队还找到了一位自述无明显症状但肺CT有轻度异常而痰液查出SARS-CoV-2病毒核酸的年轻感染者，第一次敲响无症传播的警钟。
The team also found that a young person who described himself as having no obvious symptoms but had mild pulmonary CT abnormalities and whose sputum detected SARS-CoV-2 virus nucleic acid, sounded the alarm for the first time.
这项研究为国家制定和修改防疫政策和举措提供了有力的科学根据。
The study provided a strong scientific basis for the development and revision of national immunization policies and initiatives.
真正高水平的临床研究至关重要，能发挥很大作用，我们现在缺的就是这些。
Really high levels of clinical research are essential and can make a big difference, and that's what we lack now.
（注：家庭群组研究指通过对家庭成员中某种疾病的发病情况进行调查分析，来显示某种疾病在家族中的传播特点。
(Note: Family cohort studies show the familial characteristics of a disease by investigating and analyzing the incidence of a disease among family members.
）《财经》：在这次疫情防控中，疾控中心、卫健委和政府部门，分别应承何责任？金冬雁：疾控中心主要起技术指导的作用，疫情公布是在卫健委。
) Caijing: What are the responsibilities of the CDC, the CDC and the government departments in this epidemic prevention and control? Geese: The CDC mainly acts as a technical guide.
我们1月18日之前就知道部分情况，但并未看到对疫情的及时公布。
We had some knowledge of the situation before 18 January, but we did not see a timely release of the outbreak.
这一次暴露了我们医疗体系及传染病防治体系的一些瓶颈和短板。
This time, we have exposed some bottlenecks and shortcomings in our health-care system and the system for preventing and treating infectious diseases.
在英美体系里，微生物学科和病理学科的作用非常重要。
In the Anglo-American system, the role of microbiology and pathology is very important.
但现在我们的医学微生物学、传染病学和病理学专家基本上不能对全院起指导作用。
But now our medical microbiology, infectious disease, and pathology experts are largely incapable of guiding the hospital.
包括呼吁了很久才开始做的尸检，说明病理学科的重要性被忽视。
Including a long-awaited call for an autopsy, the importance of the pathology discipline was ignored.
《财经》：关于临床用药，你观察到的现状是什么？金冬雁：规范治疗，不能乱治。
Caijing: What is the current situation you have observed with regard to clinical medication? Geese: Normative treatment, not management.
过去SARS用激素治疗，这一点我是历来非常反对，用激素治病毒病完全是饮鸩止渴，后患无穷。
SARS in the past with hormone therapy, which I have always been very opposed to the use of hormones to treat viral diseases is pure poison, after endless.
SARS、MERS或者现在NCP，用激素后看起来立竿见影，马上炎症减少，或者说是细胞因子风暴受到抑制。
SARS, MERS, or now NCP, seem to produce immediate results with hormones, immediately reducing inflammation, or suppression of cytokine storms.
可是治标不治本，病毒会飙上来，医护人员受到感染的机会也因此提高。
But the symptoms do not cure the symptoms, the virus will come up, and the chance of infection of medical personnel is increased.
甚至有一些人，接受激素治疗后有可能变成超级传播者，这是非常危险的。
There are even people who, after hormone therapy, may become super-carriers, which is very dangerous.
所以凡用激素治病毒病，都是火上浇油。
So every kind of hormone used to treat viral diseases is to add fuel to the fire.
最近有医院发现有患者深部真菌感染，这很可能跟激素有关。
A recent hospital found deep fungal infections in patients, possibly linked to hormones.
激素用了以后，真菌、衣原体等病原体接踵而来。
Hormone use, fungi, chlamydia and other pathogens followed.
激素必须在病毒已完全受控的大前提下，才能发挥减缓细胞因子风暴的作用，其发挥作用的窗口很窄，使用上一定要慎之又慎。
Hormones must be fully controlled in order to play a role in mitigating cytokine storms, its role in the window is very narrow, must be used with caution.
其他各种试用药物，包括干扰素，其实都各有毒副作用。
Various other experimental drugs, including interferons, actually have toxic side effects.
例如干扰素用于病毒感染早期可发挥抗病毒作用，但在感染后期，则往往有较严重副作用，对细胞因子风暴可能有推波助澜的作用。
Interferon, for example, can act as an antiviral agent in the early stages of viral infection, but often has more serious side effects in the later stages of infection, possibly contributing to cytokine storms.
所以即使有明确抗病毒作用的干扰素，使用时仍应谨慎。
Therefore, even if there is a clear anti-virus effect of interferon, use should still be cautious.
所以治疗方面也是需要大家有共识，需要医学病毒学家、临床病毒学家还有危重医学、呼吸科，各方面沟通配合。
Therefore the treatment aspect also needs everybody to have the consensus, needs the medical virologist, the clinical virologist also has the critical medicine, breathing department, all aspects communication cooperation.
不规范治疗是很危险的。
Non-standard treatment is dangerous.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
病毒学家金冬雁：治愈患者短期内二次患病几乎不可能。
Virologist Geese Geese: It is almost impossible to cure a second disease in the short term.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "病毒学家金冬雁：治愈患者短期内二次患病几乎不可能";。
var msg _ title = & quot; virologist & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“用激素治病毒病完全是饮鸩止渴，后患无穷。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
SARS、MERS或者现在 COVID-19，用激素后看起来立竿见影。
SARS, MERS, or now COVID-19, look instant with hormones.
可治标不治本，病毒会飙上来，医护人员受感染的机会也因此提高。
It cures symptoms rather than causes, causes viruses to surge up, and increases the risk of infection for health-care workers.
甚至有一些人，接受激素治疗后有可能变成超级传播者，这非常危险。
There are even people who, after hormone therapy, may become super-carriers, which is very dangerous.
”";。
";;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
