意甲推迟、学校停课、超市抢购，意大利因何成疫情重灾区。
Italy postponed, school closed, supermarket rush, why Italy into the disaster areas.
江玮。
Jianwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
由于确诊病例迅速攀升，意大利成为亚洲国家之外疫情最严重的国家。
With the number of confirmed cases rising rapidly, Italy is the most affected country outside of Asia.
为了控制病毒的扩散，意大利政府从2月22日起在11个市镇采取了“封城”举措。
To control the spread of the virus, the Italian government began February 22 in 11 municipalities in the "closure" initiative.
在被封锁地区，只有持特别通行证者才能出入2月23日，意大利米兰市中心的大教堂广场前，很多人都戴起了口罩。
In the closed areas, access to the cathedral square in central Milan, Italy, was restricted to holders of special permits, with many wearing masks.
图/法新文 |《财经》记者江玮编辑 | 郝洲封城、取消意甲比赛、大学停课、歌剧停演、教堂关闭，意大利突然陷入了新型冠状病毒肺炎急剧爆发的紧急状态。
Photo / AFP & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
截至当地时间2月23日下午，意大利共发现152例确诊病例，其中3人在48小时内先后去世。
By the afternoon of February 23, local time, there had been 152 confirmed cases in Italy, three of whom had died within 48 hours.
而三天前，意大利的确诊数目还只停留在3例。
Three days ago, the number of confirmed cases in Italy remained at only three.
意大利总理孔特在接受意大利媒体采访时表示：“我对这些病例的爆发感到惊讶。
"I am surprised at the outbreak of these cases," Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte said in an interview with Italian media.
”他表示意大利在未来几天可能还会出现更多病例。
He said Italy was likely to see more cases in the coming days.
由于确诊病例迅速攀升，意大利成为亚洲国家之外疫情最严重的国家。
With the number of confirmed cases rising rapidly, Italy is the most affected country outside of Asia.
为了控制病毒的扩散，意大利政府从2月22日起在11个市镇采取了“封城”举措。
To control the spread of the virus, the Italian government began February 22 in 11 municipalities in the "closure" initiative.
在被封锁地区，只有持特别通行证者才能出入。
In closed areas, access is restricted to persons with special permits.
世界卫生组织发言人塔里克·贾萨瑞维奇(Tarik Jasarevic)对《财经》记者表示：“机会窗口正在变小，我们必须抓住时机阻止一场更大范围的全球危机。
Tarik Jasarevic, spokesman for the World Health Organisation, told Caijing: "The window of opportunity is closing and we must seize the moment to prevent a wider global crisis."
”疫情急转直下意大利于1月30日发现来自武汉的一对夫妻游客感染新冠病毒，为该国最早的确诊病例。
Italy's first confirmed case of the virus was a couple of Wuhan-based tourists who were found to have contracted the virus on January 30.
随后，意大利宣布暂停所有往来于中国的航班，并进入六个月的紧急状态。
Italy then suspended all flights to and from China and imposed a six-month state of emergency.
此后一段时间，意大利确诊病例没有出现明显增长，直到最近两日情况突然急转直下。
Since then, there has been no significant increase in confirmed cases in Italy until the last two days, when the situation suddenly deteriorated.
意大利目前公布的确诊病例主要来自北部地区的伦巴第和威尼托。
The confirmed cases reported in Italy come mainly from Lombardy and Veneto in the northern regions.
两个重灾区为意大利的经济重镇，贡献了全国30%的GDP。
The two worst-hit regions are Italy's economic powerhouse, contributing 30% of the country's GDP.
在2月22日召开内阁紧急会议之后，意大利总理孔特当晚宣布一系列紧急措施，包括封锁伦巴第、威尼托大区的11个市镇。
Following an emergency cabinet meeting on February 22, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte announced a series of emergency measures, including a blockade of 11 municipalities in the Lombardy and Veneto regions.
被封锁区域目前出入通道由警察把控，所有公共活动暂停，交通也被限制，影响范围覆盖大约5万人。
Access to the closed areas is currently controlled by the police, all public events have been suspended and traffic has been restricted, affecting approximately 50,000 people.
违反防疫要求的违规者将会被处以最多三个月监禁或最高206欧元（约合人民币1567元）的罚款。
Violators who violate quarantine requirements will be sentenced to up to three months' imprisonment or a fine of up to 206 euros (1,567 yuan).
由于新型冠状病毒肺炎在意大利迅速蔓延，三场原定于23日晚上举行的意甲联赛被延期，其中包括意甲豪门国际米兰主场对桑普多利亚的一场比赛。
With the new coronavirus pneumonia spreading rapidly in Italy, three Serie A tournaments scheduled for the evening of 23 have been postponed, including a match between Italy's giants Inter Milan and Sampdoria.
意大利教育部发布公告，要求伦巴第、威尼托、艾米利亚-罗马涅三个大区的高等院校暂时停止教学活动至2月29日。
The Italian Ministry of Education has issued a circular requesting higher education institutions in the regions of Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia Romagna to suspend their activities until 29 February.
周旻雪是意大利都灵大学的一名中国学生，她所在的城市都灵属于皮埃蒙特大区，虽然不在上述三个大区范围之内，但也已经出现了6例确诊病例。
Zhou Min Xue is a Chinese student at the University of Turin, Italy, and her city, Turin, belongs to the Piedmont region. Although outside the three regions mentioned above, there have also been six confirmed cases.
她于23日晚上八点收到学校发出的通知，宣布暂时停课至29日，复课时间仍待另行通知。
She received a notice from the school at 8 p.m. on the 23rd, announcing that the school would be suspended until 29 November, with the resumption of classes subject to further notice.
周旻雪来自湖北鄂州，她对《财经》记者表示：“我之前担心家里，现在家里担心我。
Zhou Min Xue, from Hubei province, told Caijing: "I used to worry about my family, but now my family is worried about me.
”她在周围的药店已经买不到消毒水、免洗洗手液和口罩。
She can't buy disinfectant, hand sanitizers or face masks at the drugstores around her.
23日，周旻雪去了一趟超市采购食物，看到货架上的物品还算充足。
Zhou Min-xue went to the supermarket to buy food on the 23rd, and found the goods on the shelf were sufficient.
但生活在米兰的另一名中国留学生却发现他去的那家超市货架上的食品已经基本被抢购一空。
But another Chinese student, who lives in Milan, found that the supermarket shelves he had gone to were almost empty.
“前一天去的时候还不是这样。
"It wasn't like that the day before.
”他对《财经》记者表示。
"He told Caijing.
目前确诊的152个病例中，有110例来自伦巴第大区。
Of the 152 cases identified so far, 110 are from the Lombardy region.
米兰是这一地区的首府，尽管确诊病例主要集中在米兰南部的城镇，但出于对控制病毒传播的考虑，米兰大教堂将对游人暂时关闭至2月25日；米兰斯卡拉歌剧院（Teatro alla Scala）23日宣布暂停剧场演出；米兰的学校也停课一周。
Milan, the capital of the region, although confirmed cases are concentrated in towns south of Milan, will temporarily close until Feb. 25 to control the spread of the virus; the Teatro alla Scala has been suspended for 23 days; and schools in Milan have been closed for a week.
当新冠病毒在意大利爆发时，米兰时装周正接近尾声。
Milan Fashion Week drew to a close when the new Crown virus broke out in Italy.
奢侈品牌阿玛尼(Giorgio Armani)表示，他们原定23日的时装表演将在没有观众的情况下完成。
Giorgio Armani, the luxury brand, said its planned 23-day fashion show would be completed without an audience.
确诊病例数量紧随伦巴第大区的是威尼托大区，其首府为威尼斯。
The number of confirmed cases follows that of the region of Veneto, whose capital is Venice.
从2月8日开始的威尼斯狂欢节原本将持续至25日，但威尼托大区行政长官卢卡·扎亚叫停了最后三天的狂欢节活动。
The Venice Carnival, which began on February 8 and continued until February 25, was suspended for the last three days by Luca Zaya, the governor of the department of Veneto.
“（意大利）卫生部门采取了一系列措施阻止进一步传播，比如关闭学校、酒吧，停止体育赛事和其他大型集会。
"The [Italian] health authorities have taken a series of measures to stop further spread, such as closing schools, bars, sporting events and other large gatherings.
这与中国采取的遏制战略是一致的。
This is consistent with China's containment strategy.
”贾萨瑞维奇对《财经》记者说。
'Mr. Jasarevich told Caijing.
寻找意大利“零号病人”意大利卫生部长罗伯托·斯佩兰萨表示，意大利正在出现与德国、法国相似的群聚性案例。
Roberto Speransa, Italy's health minister looking for "Patient Zero," said Italy was seeing similar cases of clustering with Germany and France.
世界卫生组织发言人贾萨瑞维奇也表示，意大利北部出现的群聚性感染表明意大利首次出现了本地传播。
World Health Organization spokesman Dmitri Jasarevic also said the outbreak of mass infections in northern Italy was the first local spread in the country.
在他看来，重要的是要弄清事情是如何演变的，发现并追踪接触者。
In his view, it was important to understand how things had evolved and to find and track contacts.
但意大利民事保护署负责人安杰洛·博雷利在23日的新闻发布会上表示：“我们还不能查明谁是零号病人，因此很难预测新的可能病例。
But Angelo Bolelli, head of the Italian Civil Protection Agency, said at a news conference on Wednesday: "We are not yet in a position to identify patients with number zero, so it is difficult to predict possible new cases.
”意大利新近出现的一些病例来自伦巴第大区科多尼奥的一家医院。
Some of the new cases in Italy come from a hospital in Cordonio, Lombardy.
一名38岁的意大利男性是当地首例确诊病人。
A 38-year-old Italian man is the first confirmed local case.
在他因感染新冠病毒入院后，他的妻子和一名朋友也被查出感染。
His wife and a friend were also found infected after he was admitted to hospital with the new crown virus.
在他接受治疗的医院，3名病人和5名医护人员在病毒检测中呈阳性。
At the hospital where he was treated, three patients and five health-care workers tested positive for the virus.
被他感染的那位朋友其父开有一家酒吧，3名高龄常客已被确诊。
His infected friend, whose father owns a bar, has confirmed three elderly regulars.
意大利《共和国报》还原了这名“一号病人”的行动轨迹。
The Italian newspaper La Repubblica restored the track of operation of the "patient number one."
在确诊之前，他先于在2月2日去往热那亚附近海滨城市参加了半程马拉松，4日与朋友一起去了一家酒吧，9日参加了另一场跑步比赛，期间继续在单位联合利华上班。
Prior to his diagnosis, he ran a half marathon on February 2 in a coastal city near Genoa, went to a bar with friends on February 4, and took part in another race on February 9, continuing his work at Unilever.
2月15日，他参加了一场足球比赛和一场红十字会培训，并与两名朋友一起聚餐。
On 15 February, he attended a football match and a Red Cross training session and had a dinner with two friends.
他在饭后出现了不适症状。
He developed symptoms after dinner.
目前这名男子的感染途径仍未明了，因此仍然无法确定谁是“零号病人”。
The man's route of infection is still unknown, so it remains unclear who is "patient zero."
他曾与一名从中国返回的意大利男性一起吃饭，后者在2月初出现了流感症状，但对其的病毒检测结果呈阴性。
He ate with an Italian man returning from China who developed flu symptoms in early February but tested negative for the virus.
“尽管中国之外的确诊案例仍然相对较少，但我们对缺乏明显流行病学关联的病例表示担忧，比如是否去过中国或者与确诊案例有过接触。
"Although the number of confirmed cases outside China is still relatively low, we are concerned about the lack of a clear epidemiological link, such as whether we have been to China or have had contact with confirmed cases."
”贾萨瑞维奇说。
'he said.
威尼托大区行政长官卢卡·扎亚表示，病毒像流感一样传播，试图精准查明单一来源或者建立与中国的关联不再是有效的遏制举措。
Veneto's chief executive, Luca Zaia, says the virus is spreading like the flu, and trying to pinpoint a single source or establish ties with China is no longer an effective deterrent.
“你可以从任何人那里感染。
"You can get it from anyone.
我们会看到没有与疑似病例接触的确诊病人。
We will see no confirmed cases of contact with suspected cases.
”部分华人处境受影响病毒在意大利的蔓延也使得当地华人的处境受到影响。
The spread of some Chinese-affected viruses in Italy has also affected the situation of local Chinese.
1月底，意大利罗马的一家音乐学院曾要求来自东亚国家的学生停课。
At the end of January, a conservatory in Rome asked students from East Asian countries to suspend classes.
在都灵留学的一名中国学生对《财经》记者表示，两周前在地铁上，一名十几岁的青少年捂着嘴避开了他。
A Chinese student studying in Turin told Caijing that a teenager had covered his mouth to avoid him on the subway two weeks ago.
但除此之外，没有更多不愉快的经历发生。
But beyond that, there are no more unpleasant experiences.
一些社交媒体上出现针对华人超市的打砸抢或者反华游行图片也已经被证明为谣言。
Pictures of vandalism or anti-China demonstrations on some social media outlets against Chinese supermarkets have also proved to be rumors.
但一名华人女性成为了种族歧视的受害者。
But a Chinese woman became a victim of racial discrimination.
2月20日，一名在都灵生活多年的华人遭到两名意大利人的袭击。
On 20 February, a Chinese living in Turin for many years was attacked by two Italians.
据意大利《新闻报》23日报道，事发时间在白天，地点为都灵市中心。
According to the Italian newspaper El Pais 23, the incident took place in the daytime, in downtown Turin.
当时这名华人女性在路边等红绿灯，两名三四十岁的意大利人走向她，并夹杂着脏话冲她喊：“病毒，快离开都灵。
The Chinese woman was waiting for a traffic light when two Italians in their 30s and 40s approached her and shouted at her with foul language: "Virus, get out of Turin.
”这名女性试图解释，即使她是中国人，也不意味着她就携带了病毒。
The woman tried to explain that even if she was Chinese, that did not mean she was carrying the virus.
但男子持续辱骂她，与其同行的一名女性则动手打了她。
The man, however, continued to abuse her, and one of the women with whom he was travelling beat her.
都灵市长奇亚拉·阿彭迪诺对这一行为表示谴责，称其卑鄙可耻。
The mayor of Turin, Chiara Apendino, condemned the act as despicable and shameful.
对于在意大利的华人来说，他们纠结的一个问题是：在能够买到口罩的前提下，到底要不要戴上口罩？在当地人看来只有患病的情况才需要戴上口罩，而华人则把戴口罩视为一种自我保护或者保护他人。
For the Chinese in Italy, a vexed question is whether to put on a mask if one can buy one. In the eyes of the locals, it is only necessary to wear a mask in case of illness, whereas the Chinese see it as a form of self-protection or protection.
手里只有一个口罩的周旻雪决定减少出门，在目睹了家乡疫情爆发的经过之后，她为意大利人对病毒缺乏警惕的心态感到担忧。
Zhou Min-snow, who had only one mask, decided to cut back on travel and was worried about Italians' lack of vigilance about the virus after witnessing the outbreak in her hometown.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意甲推迟、学校停课、超市抢购，意大利因何成疫情重灾区。
Italy postponed, school closed, supermarket rush, why Italy into the disaster areas.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "意甲推迟、学校停课、超市抢购，意大利因何成疫情重灾区";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; delayed Serie A, school closings, supermarket shopping, and why Italy has been at & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "由于确诊病例迅速攀升，意大利成为亚洲国家之外疫情最严重的国家。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Italy is the most affected country outside Asia, with a rapidly rising number of confirmed cases.
为了控制病毒的扩散，意大利政府从2月22日起在11个市镇采取了“封城”举措。
To control the spread of the virus, the Italian government began February 22 in 11 municipalities in the "closure" initiative.
在被封锁地区，只有持特别通行证者才能出入";。
Only holders of a special permit have access to or from a closed area.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
