“封城”一月：武汉生活图鉴。
"Seal the City" January: Wuhan Life Map.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
经历整整31天的艰难考验之后，武汉疫情防控已经从无序走向有序，但千万居民的生活从无序到有序才刚刚开始，这个疫情核心区的社会经济生活全面恢复，还面临很多挑战2020年2月11日，武汉市洪山体育馆武昌方舱医院，社区工作人员前来迎接28名首批患者出院。
After a 31-day ordeal, Wuhan has moved from disorder to order, but the lives of tens of millions of residents have only just begun to move from disorder to orderliness.
图/中新文 |《财经》特派武汉记者 信娜 刘以秦 王小《财经》记者 辛颖编辑 | 王小2020年2月23日早晨，在武汉一家方舱医院的刘静，去找医生询问排队核酸检测名单，“每天每个病区平均有7个检测名额，符合条件先排队，过两天就能检测了，符合标准就能出院。
2007-9-25 21: 55 "Caijing" Wuhan journalist Xinna Liu, a journalist with Caijing Wang, went to see a doctor at a local cabin hospital on the morning of February 23, asking for a list of nucleic acid tests.
”刘静告诉《财经》记者。
"Liu Jing told Caijing.
距离武汉“封城”已过去一个月。
Wuhan "closure" has been a month.
1月23日10时起，武汉市公共交通暂停运营；无特殊原因，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭，恢复时间另行通告。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, public transport in Wuhan has been suspended. Without special reasons, the Han corridor at airports and railway stations has been temporarily closed.
刘静没看见自己的名字，但她没有焦虑，安心排队，等待出院，等待去见已分开一个月的两个孩子，等待一切恢复正常。
Liu Jing did not see her name, but she did not worry and waited in line to be released from hospital, waiting to see her two children, who had been separated for a month, and for everything to return to normal.
自进入2月，武汉的街道几无行人，每过两三个街角，便能看到公安执法人员。
Since entering February, the streets of Wuhan almost no pedestrians, every two or three street corners, you can see public security law enforcement personnel.
街道两旁，超市、便利店、水果店大多关闭。
Supermarkets, convenience stores and fruit shops are mostly closed on both sides of the street.
只有时不时穿过身边的外卖递送员，才让人感受到些许生活气息。
Only occasionally through the side of the take-out delivery, people feel a little breath of life.
居住在小区高楼中的人想看看这座城市，只能透过窗户，“大家都无聊地天天趴在玻璃上看，有人下楼遛狗都会被拍照发群里”。
People living in high-rise residential buildings want to see the city, can only through the window, "everyone bored looking at the glass every day, down the stairs walk the dog will be photographed in the group.
一位当地居民对《财经》记者说。
A local resident told Caijing.
面对传播能力超强的新冠病毒，武汉打的是一场“隔离”战，只有切断病源传播，才能停止疫情扩散。
In the face of the spread of the super-strong new crown virus, Wuhan is fighting a "quarantinable" war, only cut off the spread of the disease, can stop the spread of the epidemic.
经过一个月，战场已从医院内隔离扩大到全市，每个社区都被封闭成孤岛。
After a month, the battlefield has spread from the hospital to the city, and every community has been sealed off into isolated islands.
过去一周是武汉“封城”以来，市民经历过的最严隔离。
The past week has been the most isolated city in Wuhan since the city was closed.
虽然自2月11日起，武汉实行社区封闭式管理，2月16日为数不多还营业的超市内，早晨还是人头攒动，带着口罩的人们经过体温检测后可从半封闭的通道进入。
Although Wuhan has been under closed community management since February 11, the few supermarkets still open on Feb. 16 are crowded in the morning and people with masks can enter through semi-enclosed passageways after temperature tests.
然而，6天后，各超市已经不允许个人进入采购，只能团购。
However, after 6 days, supermarkets no longer allow individuals to enter the procurement, can only buy in groups.
武汉一家沃尔玛超市门口。
Wuhan, a Wal-Mart door.
《财经》记者刘以秦 摄2月17日—19日，武汉开展三天集中拉网清底大排查，以社区为基础，旨在彻底排查各类病人和密切接触者。
"Caijing" reporter Liu Yicheng February 17-19, Wuhan launched a three-day intensive screening, community-based, aimed at a thorough screening of all categories of patients and close contacts.
疫情防控进入关键时刻，为了守住武汉这座城市，全体武汉人都做出了牺牲。
The prevention and control of the epidemic into a critical moment, in order to keep Wuhan this city, all Wuhan people have made sacrifices.
经历整整31天的艰难考验之后，武汉疫情防控已经从无序走向有序，但千万居民的生活从无序到有序才刚刚开始，这个疫情核心区的社会经济生活全面恢复，还面临很多挑战。
After a 31-day ordeal, Wuhan has gone from disorder to order, but the lives of tens of millions of residents have only just begun to move from disorder to order.
“现在是无休止的排队”1月21日前后，当武汉疫情警报响起的时候，大多数人还沉浸在春节长假一家人团圆喜乐的氛围中。
"There is an endless queue" around January 21, when the Wuhan outbreak of the alarm sounded, most people are still immersed in the Spring Festival holiday family reunion happy atmosphere.
“封城”前两天，武汉人王琛还在计划春节自驾游，他周围的朋友们也在讨论过年怎么玩，回忆那几天，他觉得好像所有人都在担心武汉，只有武汉人自己没有感觉到。
Two days before the city was closed, Wang Chen, an Wuhan native, was planning a drive-in for the Spring Festival. Friends around him were discussing how to play the festival.
“‘封城’之前，武汉市政府的表现太正常了，甚至还计划给大家免费派送景点门票。
"Before the city was closed, the Wuhan government had behaved so normally that it even planned to give free tickets to the scenic spots.
”王琛告诉《财经》记者。
Wang told Caijing.
武汉大学的一位教授在1月20日带领十几人的学生团队到社区卫生服务中心进行日常调研，“我是研究公共卫生的，但当时都不清楚疫情的严重程度。
"I studied public health, but I didn't know how serious the outbreak was," said a Wuhan University professor who led a group of about a dozen students to the community health service center on January 20.
”刘静虽然已经意识到风险，但这天是公公的头七，虽然电话拒绝了所有亲友来家中祭拜，但同一个小区的哥哥和嫂子总是要在一起坐坐。
Although Liu Jing was aware of the risks, she was in the first seven years of her father-in-law's life.
“要不留下来吃个晚饭吧。
'Why don't you stay and have supper?
”刘静对自己的话印象深刻。
"Liu Jing was impressed by her words.
事后她说，早知道就不吃了，当时有些轻微咳嗽的嫂子，也成为了她唯一接触的病源。
Her sister-in-law, who had coughed slightly at the time, was also the only source of exposure, she said.
1月22日，湖北启动启动突发公共卫生事件二级应急响应机制。
On January 22, Hubei launched a secondary emergency response mechanism for public health emergencies.
当晚，武汉即将“封城”的消息传出。
That night, Wuhan will "seal the city" news spread.
一位当地警察也是第一时间在网上看到这个消息，很快他接到指令，“不能出武汉。
A local policeman, who saw the news online for the first time, was soon instructed not to leave Wuhan.
待命。
Stand by.
”此时，除61家开设发热门诊的武汉本地医院，武汉市卫健委在1月22日公布第了二批7家收治新冠肺炎病例的定点医院，并由7家综合医院帮扶，扩容安排3000余张病床收治新冠肺炎疑似和确诊病例。
At the same time, in addition to the 61 Wuhan local hospitals with fever clinics, the Wuhan Health Commission on January 22 announced the second batch of seven designated hospitals for treating new crowns of pneumonia, with seven general hospitals providing assistance and expanding the capacity of more than 3,000 beds to treat suspected and confirmed cases of pneumonia.
当大多数人还在议论“封城”信息真假难辨时，出现症状的人群已经超负荷的涌向武汉各医院。
While most people are still talking about the "closure" of the information true and false, the symptoms of the crowd has been overloaded to Wuhan hospitals.
医院外聚集着排队挂号的患者，挂不上号的人开始在各家医院奔走。
Outside the hospital there were patients queuing up to register, and those who couldn't hang up began to run around the hospitals.
1月23日零点刚过，武汉一家定点医院的一位医生坐立难安，他打电话给《财经》记者说：“几家定点医院都在武汉市中心区域，无法收治住院的患者在医院间辗转，已经成为移动的传染源，必须尽快控制。
Just after midnight on January 23, a doctor at a Wuhan-based designated hospital sat down and told Caijing that several designated hospitals are in the central region of Wuhan. Those unable to treat hospitalized patients toss and turn between hospitals have become a source of infection that needs to be quickly controlled
”“封城”前一日，武汉发热门诊量激增至约13000人次，此后一直到1月28日，武汉每天的发热门诊量一直保持在万人次以上。
Wuhan fever clinics surged to about 13,000 a day before the city was closed, and then stayed above 10,000 daily until Jan. 28.
1月23日凌晨两点，武汉“封城”信息正式公布，这一天也是1月份武汉各医院压力最大的一天，发热门诊量达最高点，14486人次。
Wuhan city closed at 2 a.m. on January 23, the day is also the most stressed day in Wuhan hospitals, calorific outpatients reached a peak of 14,486.
“封城”当日，刘洋被派到定点医院武汉七医院支援。
"Seal the city" that day, Liu Yang was sent to Dingdian Hospital Wuhan seven hospitals to support.
那时七医院发热门诊排队候诊人群已蜿蜒至院外街道。
At that time, the waiting list of the seven hospitals fever clinic had snaked into the street outside.
经过20多个小时排队，1月23日凌晨两点多，李帆的父亲终于在七医院门诊观察室接受输液治疗。
After more than 20 hours of queuing, January 23 more than 2 a.m., Li Fan's father finally in the seven hospital outpatient observation room received infusion treatment.
观察室内外，挤满了戴着口罩的人群。
Inside and outside the observation room, crowded with people wearing masks.
而在这之前的24小时内，李帆和家人在武汉走了四家医院。
In the previous 24 hours, Li Fan and his family had walked through four hospitals in Wuhan.
1月24日就是庚子鼠年除夕，刘洋的记忆里只剩下黑压压的人群。
January 24 is the Year of the Gengzi mouse New Year's Eve, Liu Yang's memory only left the pressure of the crowd.
他被人群围绕，被嘈杂的声音围绕，咳嗽和抱怨交叠。
He was surrounded by crowds, surrounded by loud voices, coughing and complaining.
几乎被挤爆的各大医院外，还彷徨着无数病人。
Outside the main hospitals, which had been nearly bursting, there were innumerable patients.
1月24日，时任湖北省委书记蒋超良要求，武汉市对所有疑似患者一律无条件收治，并进行有效隔离。
On January 24, then-secretary of Hubei Provincial Party Committee Jiang Xiaoliang requested that Wuhan city accept all suspected patients unconditionally and segregate them effectively.
随后武汉决定中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理，火神山、雷神山医院工程先后启动。
Wuhan then decided to implement the central urban areas of motor vehicle management, the god of fire, Lei Shenshan Hospital project started successively.
华南海鲜市场所处的武汉江汉区政府，曾在1月30日、2月1日两次向武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组及副市长陈邂馨请示，“恳请协调解决病人收治事宜”。
Wuhan Jianghan District Government of South China Seafood Market has asked the medical treatment group and vice mayor Chen Yingxin of Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command twice on January 30 and February 1.
“目前仍有142例确诊病人无法收治入院，其中红十字会医院65例，其他医院77例，情况异常危急”。
"There are still 142 cases of confirmed patients who cannot be admitted to hospitals, including 65 Red Cross hospitals and 77 other hospitals," he said.
这是《财经》记者获悉的当时情况，江汉区四家定点医院，在医疗条件差、医护人员缺乏、医疗资源有限的情况下，收治了大量病人。
According to Caijing News, four designated hospitals in Jianghan district treated a large number of patients with poor medical conditions, lack of medical staff and limited medical resources.
1月28日，刘静的嫂子打电话来告诉她，在医院进行CT检查，“肺部感染呈毛玻璃状”，但是没有办法进行核酸检测，只能居家隔离，这一等就是十天。
On January 28, Liu Jing's sister-in-law called to tell her that a CT scan at the hospital had revealed that the lung infection was "glassy," but there was no way to test for nucleic acids.
“我为武汉这座城市难受”这是王琛第一次一个人过年。
"I feel bad for the city of Wuhan" This is the first time Wang Chen alone New Year.
他计划去超市买点好吃的，他跑了几家超市，货架空空荡荡的，只好买了几盒泡面。
He planned to go to the supermarket to buy some delicious food, he ran several supermarkets, shelves empty, had to buy a few boxes of noodles.
回到家发现停水了，他只能吃泡面干。
Home found no water, he had to eat dried noodles.
他在朋友圈写道：“我回来与你同舟共济，可你要把我饿死。
He wrote in his circle of friends, "I am here with you, but you will starve me to death.
”1月25日，大年初一。
January 25, the New Year's Day.
早晨王琛拉开窗帘，看着外面雾蒙蒙的天空和空无一人的街道，“完全没有任何过年的气氛。
In the morning Wang Chen drew back the curtains and looked out at the foggy sky and empty streets.
”“就好像是一个巨人突然倒下了，”王琛说，“我没觉得自己可怜，我为武汉这座城市难受。
"It was as if a giant had suddenly fallen down," Wang Chen said. "I didn't feel sorry for myself.
”其后疫情数据一天天上升，武汉人和外界每天都揪着心。
"The figures rose day by day, with Wuhan people and the outside world clinging to their hearts every day.
2月中旬，疫情数据看似有所转好时，2月11日武汉宣布实行社区封闭式管理，每三天一户一人可以出去购物。
In mid-February, when the epidemiological data appeared to be improving, Wuhan announced on 11 February the implementation of closed community management, one family every three days can go shopping.
“我们小区天天在群里喊话不要出门，说是有通行证才能上街，不然出去会有人查，看你有没有单位证明。
"Our community every day in the group yell not to go out, said is to have a pass to go out, or someone will check out, see if you have unit certificate.
我朋友是在医院上班，她就是有医院证明才能去上班。
My friend works in a hospital. She only goes to work if she has a medical certificate.
”李晓义说，她在过去的一周都没有出门，只在2月22日出门一趟，“我去拿顺丰的快递，他要求自提”。
Ms. Li says she hasn't been out of the house for the past week, except for a trip on February 22, when "I'll get Shunfeng's express, he said.
李晓义本来还想出门顺便买点东西回去，结果商店都关了，便利店不对个人，只能在网购平台下单，然后外卖员送货入社区。
Li also wanted to go out and buy something, but the store was closed. Convenience stores were closed. Instead of individuals, they ordered things online and delivered them to the community.
自2月16日社区管理更严，小区一律封锁，一些老式小区甚至用木板把路口封死。
Since 16 February, communities have become more tightly managed, with entire neighbourhoods blocked, and some old-fashioned neighbourhoods have even boarded up intersections.
一些大型超市也不再接受任何个人消费，必须以社区为单位，出具证明后才能购买物资。
Some large supermarkets also no longer accept any personal consumption, must be community-based, before the production of certificates to purchase goods.
超市、菜场也不再允许个人进入。
Supermarkets and vegetable farms are no longer open to individuals.
李晓义加入了10多个微信购物群，有蔬菜群、米面群，各群甚至细分到还有猫粮的团购。
Li joined a group of more than 10 micro-mail shopping groups, vegetables, rice noodle groups, even subdivided into cat food group.
“现在吃就是天大的事，微信群里从睁眼聊到熄灯就是吃。
"It's a big thing to eat now, from opening your eyes to turning off the lights.
”武汉市武昌区一家超市，上图2月16日，下图2月22日，蔬菜水果区。
A supermarket in Wuchang district, Wuhan, Feb. 16, pictured above, Feb. 22, in the greengrocer's section.
《财经》记者王小 摄作为志愿者，王琛收到的求助信息大多来自普通居民，买不到菜，买不到药，买不到奶粉，买不到狗粮猫砂，他继续为这些求助信息奔走。
Wang Xiaoxing, a reporter for Caijing, received most of the help he received from ordinary residents. He could not buy food, medicine, powdered milk, dog food and cat litter.
如何保障这些居民的日常生活，是新的重任。
How to safeguard the daily lives of these residents is a new challenge.
为了解决买菜问题，武汉市组织了9家电商企业推出“社区团购菜”。
In order to solve the problem of buying vegetables, Wuhan City organized nine appliance manufacturers to launch "community group to buy vegetables."
但网购平台并不能覆盖所有角落，志愿者陈星旭告诉《财经》记者，社区团购菜的品种有限，价格较高，一些时候也不新鲜，且很多独居的老人不会使用电商团购。
But the online shopping platform doesn't cover all corners, volunteer Chen Xingxu told Caijing. Community group buying is limited, expensive and sometimes not new, and many elderly people who live alone do not use electric groups.
一位业主在业主微信群里说，下午有老人要她帮忙买鱼，她一直以为婆婆去她儿子家了。
An owner in a small group of owners said that in the afternoon she was asked to help buy fish, she always thought her mother-in-law went to her son's house.
老人没有微信，外界信息来源有限。
The old man had no letter and limited external sources of information.
为一个病床所做的努力生活物资由社区统一负责采购分发，一个中型社区居民数量接近1万人，社区工作人员排查发热病人的工作仍在继续。
Efforts for one bed were procured and distributed by the community as a whole, the number of residents in a medium-sized community was close to 10,000, and the work of community workers in screening febrile patients continued.
2月3日，武汉七医院核酸检测室外，排在前5位的人一夜未归。
February 3, Wuhan seven hospitals nucleic acid testing outdoor, ranked in the top five people did not return overnight.
最前面的中年人紧了紧外衣，“我从昨天晚上8点钟一直到现在”，终于能坐在最前面时，心理踏实。
The middle-aged man in the front tightened his coat. "I have been from 8 o'clock last night until now," and was at last reassured to be in the front seat.
但这一天的检测规则又变了。
But the rules of the day have changed.
早上8点钟，一位身穿防护服的高个子医生拿着几页A4打印纸，列着序号、姓名等信息。
At eight o'clock in the morning, a tall doctor in protective clothing carried pages of A4 typed paper with serial numbers, names, etc.
刘洋用扩音器朝着门外焦急等待的人群大喊，头一天打电话通知的人今天才能做核酸检测，也就是必须在这名单上。
Liu yelled at the anxious crowd outside the door with a megaphone. Those who called the first day could not get a nucleic acid test today, which meant they had to be on the list.
当天的名额是190人。
The number of places on that day was 190.
队伍立马松动，随着大声的抱怨，人们拥至门口。
The procession immediately loosened and, with loud complaints, people rushed to the door.
接近20分钟后，人群渐渐恢复平静，大家不得不接受新规则。
Nearly 20 minutes later, the crowd gradually calmed down and everyone had to accept the new rules.
刘洋回忆，那段时间自己不断重复着相同的答案，什么时候开始检测，在哪里排队，怎么取结果，他的音带因长时间剧烈运动而变得嘶哑。
Mr. Liu recalls repeating the same answers over and over again during that time. When did he start testing, where he queued up and how to get the results.
这一突出变化，源自武汉的“应收尽收、应检尽检”之战。
This outstanding change, originates from Wuhan's "receivable, due inspection" war.
2月2日晚，武汉市疫情防控指挥部召开视频调度会，要求“四集中”：确诊、疑似、发热及密切接触者全部集中收治隔离。
February 2 night, Wuhan city epidemic prevention and control command convened a video-control meeting, "four episodes": diagnosis, suspicion, fever and close contacts all concentrated treatment isolation.
所谓全部收治，主要是重症病人，接到重症医院和定点医院；轻症病人，则安排进入各个方舱医院和隔离点。
So-called total admission, mainly serious patients, to the severe hospital and to the designated hospital; light patients, arrangements to enter the various cabin hospitals and isolation points.
《财经》记者获悉，2月5日上午，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部召开的会议，要求各区在未来两天内，即最晚至2月7日，完成武汉市所有疑似病例的核酸检测。
According to Caijing, a meeting of Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control Command was held on the morning of February 5 and required all districts to complete nucleic acid testing of all suspected cases in Wuhan within the next two days, i.e. by February 7 at the latest, Caijing said.
除了疑似病例的检测，这次会议还提出争取在2月5日晚24时，收治所有确诊病人。
In addition to the detection of suspected cases, the meeting also called for the admission of all confirmed patients by 2400 hours on 5 February.
2月8日，刘静病发，她去医院做了检测。
On February 8, Liu Jing became ill and went to the hospital for a test.
2月14日，她被确诊为新冠肺炎，2月15日她被送到一家方舱医院。
On 14 February, she was diagnosed with pneumonia, and on 15 February she was taken to a cabin hospital.
这是武汉为收治轻症病人，利用体育馆等大型公共设施临时创建的。
This is Wuhan for the treatment of light patients, using the stadium and other large public facilities created on an ad hoc basis.
那一段时间，整个武汉都在为增加床位不遗余力。
During that time, Wuhan was sparing no effort to increase the number of beds.
2月1日，火神山医院进入抢工高峰期，一位工程负责人告诉《财经》记者，那3天他总共只睡了3个小时，在老家的妻子发高烧，6岁的孩子在家照顾她，“那段时间真的好难。
"It was a really hard time for him to sleep three hours in all, his wife in her hometown had a fever and her six-year-old baby was at home to look after her," a project director told Caijing on February 1.
”2月4日，火神山医院接受首批45位患者，整个医院建成后能提供1000张床位。
The first group of 45 patients was admitted to Mount Fukuyama Hospital on February 4, providing 1,000 beds when the hospital is completed.
2月8日，武汉雷神山医院交付使用，逐步放开1500张床位。
On February 8, Wuhan Raytheon Hill Hospital was commissioned, gradually opening 1,500 beds.
武汉首批3家“方舱医院”陆续启用，用于收治轻症患者。
Wuhan first three "square cabin hospitals" have been opened successively, used to treat patients with light diseases.
此外，各方面想方设法提高物资和人员支援。
In addition, every effort has been made to increase material and human resources.
2月5日，武汉的核酸检测最高能力已经达到每日6000-8000份。
Wuhan has the highest nucleic acid detection capacity of 6,000-8,000 a day on February 5.
截至2月12日，国家卫健委共派出189支医疗队、21569名医护人员驰援湖北，各方才稍稍松口气。
As of February 12, 189 medical teams and 21,569 medical personnel had been dispatched to Hubei by the National Health Service Commission.
武汉协和医院的一位医生连续工作1个月，终于在2月初获得几天假期，武汉市中心医院也在此时开始安排轮休。
A doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, who worked for a month, was finally given a few days off in early February, when Wuhan Central Hospital began to arrange rotation breaks.
2月10日，湖北省卫健委书记、主任双双被免职。
On February 10, both the secretary and director of the Hubei Wei Bodyguard Commission were dismissed.
随后，湖北省和武汉市主要领导相继更换。
Subsequently, the major leaders of Hubei and Wuhan changed.
2月13日，应勇出任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
February 13, Yingyong Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan Secretary.
从2月初开始，志愿者王琛又有了信心，打电话来求助的病人数量明显变少。
Since the beginning of February, Wang Chen, a volunteer, is confident that the number of patients calling for help has decreased significantly.
负责物资捐赠的武汉市红十字会工作量也逐步稳定。
Wuhan Red Cross, which is responsible for material donations, has steadily stabilized its workload.
1月24日，武汉市红十字会开通了17部电话，一开始打来电话的几乎都是要捐款捐物，由于不断有红十字会相关的负面消息，接听组接到了大量指责的电话，一位红十字会工作人员告诉《财经》记者，那几天，志愿者经常被骂哭。
On January 24, Wuhan Red Cross opened 17 telephone lines, almost all of which started with donations. Due to the constant negative news about the Red Cross, the group received a lot of critical phone calls.
之后，打电话过来要捐赠的人逐渐变少，更多的是来查询物资和款项流转情况。
Later, the number of people calling for donations gradually decreased, more to inquire about the flow of goods and money.
到2月底，武汉红十字会接听组的电话已经减少到11部，接听组的志愿者最高峰时有100多位，如今大部分停止了志愿者工作。
By the end of February, the number of calls to the Wuhan Red Cross had been reduced to 11, and the number of volunteers in the reception group, who numbered more than 100 at their peak, had largely stopped working as volunteers.
一位曾经在接听组工作的志愿者告诉《财经》记者，捐赠物资变少了，感觉自己也发挥不了太大的作用，于是离开红十字会，转去做帮助医疗队的支援工作。
A volunteer who worked on the team told Caijing that fewer donations were being made and that he didn't feel he had much to do, so he left the Red Cross to help with the medical team.
武汉各方面的情况在改善，但疫情扩散的压力仍然很大。
Wuhan is improving all aspects of the situation, but the spread of the epidemic is still very pressure.
医院发热门诊终于“闲了”2月14日，武汉春日的气息愈加浓郁，路边树上小朵的宫粉梅成簇开放，引得稀疏的路人停驻、拍照。
Feb. 14, Wuhan fever clinic "leisure" February 14, Wuhan more rich flavor, small trees on the roadside in clusters of pink plum, sparse passers-by stopped, take photos.
当天，中央赴湖北指导组发布消息：要打好武汉保卫战、湖北保卫战全面总攻。
On the same day, the central government went to the Hubei guidance group to announce that the overall offensive should be well fought in Wuhan and Hubei.
当战场从医院转向社区，各定点医院已经大不相同。
As the battlefield shifted from hospitals to communities, designated hospitals became very different.
2月22日上午11点左右，武汉七医院核酸标本采集室外的门口，刘洋难得有空闲坐一会儿，手边的扩音器变得多余。
February 22 around 11 a.m., Wuhan Seven Hospital nucleic acid specimens collection outside the door, Liu Yang rarely have a moment to sit idle, the hand of the loudspeaker became redundant.
这一天，七医院的发热门诊罕见的空空荡荡。
On this day, the seven-hospital fever clinic was unusually empty.
二楼诊室门外无人等候。
No one was waiting outside the second floor.
一位导诊的工作人员说，近一周，一天也就50几个人，大多是隔离酒店的疑似患者来进行复查，或者将要复工的人进行体检排查。
Nearly a week later, more than 50 people, most of them suspected of quarantining hotel patients, have had their cases reviewed, or people about to return to work undergo a medical check-up, said a staff member who supervised the visit.
2月22日上午11时左右，武汉第七医院发热门诊空荡荡的候诊区。
February 22 around 11 a.m., Wuhan seventh hospital fever clinic empty waiting area.
《财经》记者信娜 摄武汉市目前核酸检测能力达到每天2.5万人次。
Caijing reporter Xinna Vuhan city at present nucleic acid detection capacity of 25,000 people per day.
2月21日，武汉市临床诊断、疑似、发热患者、集中隔离点的密切接触者“四类人员”核酸检测存量已全面清零；从2月22日开始，武汉市计划对有必要进行核酸检测的人做到日清日结。
On February 21, the nucleic acid testing inventory of the four groups of people in close contact with patients with clinical diagnosis, suspected fever and concentrated isolation in Wuhan has been completely eliminated.
收治确诊患者的医院稳定下来，社区人员的工作量却丝毫未减，只是重心转移。
Hospitals where confirmed patients are admitted have stabilized, while the workload of community members has not decreased, but the focus has shifted.
所有发热病人的第一通道就是社区，社区负责每日记录居民的身体状况，联系医院就诊，还包括接送。
The first point of contact for all febrile patients is the community, which is responsible for keeping a daily record of residents' physical condition, contacting hospitals and including transportation.
2月15日，武汉遭遇大风和雨雪，刘静在当天收到电话通知收拾行李，赶去一家方舱医院。
February 15, Wuhan encountered strong winds and snow, Liu Jing in the same day received a telephone notification pack, rushed to a cabin hospital.
“大部分流程都很紧凑。
"Most processes are very tight.
”之前，她在2月14日拿到核算阳性诊断结果后，一个小时左右，就有市政府工作人员向她打电话确认病情。
Earlier, about an hour after she got her positive results on February 14, city officials called her to confirm her condition.
当晚刘静主动给社区打电话联系如何进入方舱医院隔离，但未联系上。
That night, Liu Jing volunteered to call the community to contact how to enter the cabin hospital isolation, but did not contact.
2月15日早上，隔壁社区工作人员来电，主动提出到刘静家中进行全面消毒，但确认地址后发现不在管辖范围内。
February 15 morning, next door community workers called, offered to go to Liu Jing's home for a comprehensive disinfection, but confirmed that the address was found outside the jurisdiction.
当天中午，刘静所在社区来电，告知她去往方舱医院的接送事宜。
At noon that day, Liu Jing's community called and told her to go to the cabin hospital to pick up the matter.
下午两点，司机逐个来接一车8个人，开到青山方舱医院后，对方说名单上没有她的名单。
At 2 p. m., the driver picked up a truckload of eight people and drove to Castle Peak Hospital.
经核对才知，她应送到沌口方舱医院。
After checking, she should be sent to the chaotic oral cabin hospital.
刘静说，“车上没有别的工作人员跟着，也不能怪司机。
"No one else on the bus followed, and I can't blame the driver," Liu said.
那天风雪交加，我们还安慰司机师傅，别着急，慢慢开。
It was a snowy day and we comforted the driver. Don't worry. Drive slowly.
”武汉市洪山区某社区，工作人员已经连轴转了一个月，一位社区负责人告诉《财经》记者，每天她接到的求助电话超过100个，早期社区工作人员防护装备有限，不敢直接接触发热病人，“我们已经尽了最大的努力了。
"We've done our best," a community official told Caijing Daily, a community official in Hongshan district of Wuhan, told Caijing that she received more than 100 calls a day, that early community workers had limited protective equipment and did not dare to come into direct contact with febrile patients.
”在物资充足后，还要应对各种繁琐的工作流程，包括填表、拍照合影、各级政府部门的对接等等，“我一个人就要对接6个领导”。
"After the supplies are plentiful, I have to deal with a variety of tedious work processes, including filling out forms, taking photographs, docking government departments at all levels, and so on.
更重要的任务还等着他们。
More important tasks await them.
为真正完成隔离任务，全面排查被再次提出。
In order to truly complete the isolation task, a full inventory was proposed again.
2月17日-19日，武汉开展三天集中拉网清底大排查，以社区为基础，彻底排查清楚各类病人和密切接触者。
From 17 to 19 February, Wuhan launched a three-day intensive screening of patients and close contacts on a community-based basis.
为此，2月16日湖北省要求，城乡所有村组、社区、小区、居民点实行24小时最严格的封闭式管理。
To this end, on February 16 in Hubei Province, all village groups, communities, small areas and population centres in urban and rural areas were subject to the strictest 24-hour closed management.
“几次排查下来，这次是最严的，至少我确实接到电话，也有人上门。
"Several checks down, this is the strictest, at least I did get a call, someone came to the door.
”上述武汉大学教授回忆此前排查工作一直不够彻底。
The Wuhan University professor recalled that previous searches had not been thorough enough.
2月9日，社区每天入户统计就是应付差事，给链接登记、报平安、留下联系方式后就不管了，我第一天主动登记，再接下来的两天没登记也没人打电话给我。
On February 9, the daily community statistics is to cope with the task, the link registration, peace, left contact information, I voluntarily registered the first day, the next two days did not register and no one called me.
"一位武汉市民告诉《财经》记者。
A Wuhan city resident told Caijing.
武汉一位家住武汉协和医院附近的居民告诉《财经》记者，他们需要每天自己量体温，然后在小区群里报备，但是不报也没人催。
A resident of Wuhan who lives near the Wuhan Huihe Hospital told Caijing that they needed to take their own temperature every day and report it in the neighborhood, but no one rushed them.
由于有的小区需要每天填报体温两次，小区业主当志愿者，对接网格员，帮忙统计和催促。
As some communities need to fill in the temperature twice a day, small district owners as volunteers, docking grid, help statistics and urging.
华中师范大学近日发布的一份网络调查问卷，取样1500人，其中约60%的人不清楚小区内是否有确诊、疑似患者未隔离，70%的人不清楚是否有密切接触者未隔离。
About 60 percent of 1,500 people polled online by the Central China Normal University said they did not know if there was a diagnosis or suspected unquarantined, and 70 percent did not know if there were close contacts.
小区需向居民公示具体信息，如疫情警示。
Residential areas need to communicate specific information to residents, such as epidemic alert.
“我们小区没贴任何疫情警示，也没有社区向业主通报，最后业主强烈要求下在2月14日发通知，才知小区有11例确诊、8例疑似。
"Our community did not post any epidemic alert, no community to inform the owners, the final owners urged the February 14 notice, only to know that there are 11 confirmed cases, 8 suspected cases.
”这位居民所在的单元有2例确诊病例、1例疑似病例，所以他和家人避免出门，一周下一次楼，除非订购肉、菜等生活必须品。
The resident lived in a unit with two confirmed cases and one suspected case, so he and his family avoided going out and went to the next building once a week, unless he ordered meat, vegetables and other necessities.
虽不尽如人意，但情况会慢慢好起来生活物资紧缺之下，一些现实困难也在武汉出现。
Although not satisfactory, but the situation will gradually get better under the scarcity of living materials, some practical difficulties also appeared in Wuhan.
志愿者陈星旭发现，“封城”后经济拮据的老人是最困难的。
Volunteers Chen Xingxu found that after the "closure" of the elderly is the most difficult financial constraints.
他了解到，一位老人为了节约几元钱菜钱，偷偷翻墙跑出社区，想自己去外面买菜。
He learned that an old man in order to save a few yuan of money, secretly ran out of the community wall, want to buy their own vegetables.
一位公安厅刑侦人员在2月20号发微信朋友圈称，下基层守小区门禁很艰难，“小区有一位86岁的婆婆以前每天各种理由出门采购，最终只拎一盒方便面回来。
"An 86-year-old mother-in-law used to go shopping every day for a variety of reasons and ended up carrying only one box of instant noodles," a police investigator said in a letter to friends on Feb. 20.
这几天全封闭后，社区工作人员和志愿者苦口婆心，今天，还是邻居帮她确认她每天喝的10元一斤的酒已经卖完了，终于才放弃出门。
After days of total closure, community workers and volunteers took pains to confirm that the $10 a catty she drank every day had been sold out before finally giving up the door.
”各种物资紧缺的情况下，有人无偿捐赠物资，也有人试图浑水摸鱼。
"In a world of scarcity, some donate goods free of charge and others try to fish in troubled waters.
2月18日，武汉东西湖区的恒大城小区，业主微信群里有人发出消息，称可以团购活鱼，10斤100元，包括草鱼、鲫鱼和花鲢，可以送货上门。
Feb. 18, Wuhan East and West Lake District, Heng Daocheng small area, owners micro-letter group issued a message that can buy live fish, 10 jin 100 yuan, including grass carp, carp and carp, can be delivered door-to-door.
一位业主付款后，晚上10点左右，在小区的一个封锁的出口处收到鱼，当时天已黑，她没有看清袋子里的东西，回到家后，才发现只有白鲢鱼和鳊鱼，且大部分都是死鱼。
When a proprietor paid, she received the fish at about 10 p.m. at a closed exit in the neighborhood. It was dark, and she didn't see what was in the bag. When she returned home, she found only silver carp and any ice fish, most of them dead fish.
“如果按照他说的标准，价格已经是平时的两倍了，我们能理解物价上涨，但是不能理解欺骗。
"If, by his standards, the price is already twice as high as usual, we can understand the price increase, but we cannot understand the deception.
”该业主告诉《财经》记者。
The owner told Caijing.
“不是所有小区都能够控制好，有些小区团购每天上午十点一次，大家取物品间隔1米，但是有些小区管理稍混乱，团购不断，取货时也人挨人，这或许会影响隔离效果。
"Not all small areas can be controlled, some sub-group purchase every morning at 10: 00, people take the article interval of 1 meter, but some small areas management, continued to buy, also when the people pick up the goods, which may affect the isolation effect.
"上述武汉大学教授说。
Refer to Wuhan University professor above.
全国各地支援武汉的医护人员陆续到来。
Support for Wuhan medical personnel have arrived throughout the country.
武汉一家有78间房的酒店在2月20日被征用，安置一批支援武汉的医护人员。
Wuhan, a 78-room hotel was requisitioned on February 20, placing a group of medical staff to support Wuhan.
酒店经理对《财经》记者说，先安排，没谈费用，现在不是时候。
The hotel manager told Caijing that it was not the right time to arrange things first and not talk about expenses.
前来接洽的是一位中年男子，胸前挂着“志愿者”的牌子，他在学校工作，被抽来做联络工作，他将会负责这批援汉医护人员生活的方方面面，如酒店无法供应伙食，他要帮忙统一安排订餐。
A middle-aged man with a volunteer sign on his chest who works at the school and is drawn to do liaison work will be responsible for all aspects of the life of the Chinese medical staff.
2月22日，武汉市防控指挥部公布前一日疫情相关数据，“四类人员”中，确诊患者一栏，居家为零。
February 22, Wuhan city control and control command released the previous day's epidemic-related data, "four categories of personnel," confirmed the patient column, the home is zero.
完成隔离，这是武汉防控疫情、恢复健康的第一步，虽然后面的路还长。
Complete isolation, this is Wuhan to prevent and control the epidemic, recovery of the first step, although the road ahead is still long.
王琛现在更担心的是自己的生计，由于工厂不能开工，他也没有稳定的收入来源，员工的工资不能断，银行的贷款利息每天都在增加，他不知道还能挺多久，但终究还是希望可以挺过去。
Wang Chen is more worried about his livelihood, because the factory can not start, he does not have a stable source of income, employees can not break down, the bank loan interest rate is increasing daily, he does not know how long, but ultimately hope to survive.
（文中刘静、刘洋、李帆、李晓义为化名）【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright in this work belongs to the exclusive ownership of Caijing, and authorizes the Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to have exclusive rights to disseminate the information network, and no third party may reproduce it without authorization.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“封城”一月：武汉生活图鉴。
"Seal the City" January: Wuhan Life Map.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "“封城”一月：武汉生活图鉴";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "经历整整31天的艰难考验之后，武汉疫情防控已经从无序走向有序，但千万居民的生活从无序到有序才刚刚开始，这个疫情核心区的社会经济生活全面恢复，还面临很多挑战";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
