身份信息被泄露？防控疫情背后的大数据治理权衡。
Identity information leaked? Controlling the big data governance trade-offs behind the epidemic.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 刘晓春。
Author Liu Xiaochun.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
有关部门基于对于疫情信息的处理权限，对个人信息进行未经同意的处理，其基础的合法性不应受到质疑，但同时也应该建立更加规范化的机制和手段处理个人信息文|刘晓春运用“大数据+网格化”的手段对疫情进行全面和精细化治理，目前已被政府采纳为控制疫情扩散的重要手段，这也是完善治理体系和治理能力的落实机制。
While the legality of non-consensual processing of personal information based on the authority to process epidemic information should not be questioned, more standardized mechanisms and tools should be put in place to handle personal information. Liu Xiaochun has been adopted by the government as an important means of controlling the spread of the epidemic.
近日，工业与信息化部迅速响应，部署利用手机信令等电信大数据支持工作，从2月14日举行的媒体通气会上，可以了解到目前移动运营商提供电信大数据分析、支撑服务疫情防控的总体情况。
In recent days, the Ministry of Industry and Informatization has responded quickly by deploying large-scale data support services such as cell phone signaling. At a media briefing on February 14, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology learned the overall situation of mobile operators providing big data analysis and supporting the prevention and control of service epidemics.
从媒体会上的提问可以看出，人们关心的焦点之一就是，根据手机信令分析获得的个人信息，如行踪轨迹、地理位置，会在何种程度上被处理、传播甚至披露。
Questions from the media showed that one of the main concerns was the extent to which personal information obtained from cell phone signaling analysis, such as tracking trajectories and geographic locations, would be processed, disseminated and even disclosed.
毕竟，在令人意外的疫情出现之前，每个使用手机的人可能并没有做好准备——因为使用手机而提供给运营商的相关信息会被全面收集、记录，作为对自身和公共风险评估的依据，甚至有可能面临在不知情的情况下被披露的状况。
After all, before an unexpected outbreak occurs, everyone who uses a cell phone may not be prepared - because the information provided to operators using the phone is collected, recorded, used as a basis for their own and public risk assessment, and may even face uninformed disclosure.
基础合法性不应受到质疑从突发公共卫生事件的防控治理角度来看，对个人信息的收集和处理，不仅是“大数据+网格化”治理的必要步骤，也是整个突发事件应对的题中应有之意。
The collection and processing of personal information is not only a necessary step in the management of "big data + grid" but also an implication of the whole issue of emergency response.
某种意义上来说，疫情防控的有效性，需要高度依赖疫情信息的监测、收集、报告、解释、发布机制，只有在及时、准确、全面的信息获取和处理机制之上，才能够支撑科学、有效、快速的决策，并落实到各种具体举措上。
In a sense, the effectiveness of epidemic prevention and control requires a high degree of reliance on surveillance, collection, reporting, interpretation and dissemination mechanisms for epidemic information. Only on the basis of timely, accurate and comprehensive information access and processing mechanisms can scientific, effective and rapid decision-making be supported and translated into concrete initiatives.
包括对人群根据不同风险级别采取不同措施、进行物资和人员的高效调度、对公众发布合适的信息通报等等。
These include the adoption of different measures for groups of people depending on the level of risk, efficient movement of goods and personnel, dissemination of appropriate information to the public, etc.
事关公共健康安全，个人权利和行动自由受到适当克减，不仅是法律法规明确规定的情形，也是公众从直觉和理智上都很容易接受的政策。
It is a matter of public health security, and individual rights and freedom of movement are subject to appropriate derogations, not only in cases expressly provided for in laws and regulations, but also as policies that are intuitively and intellectually acceptable to the public.
在这样的特殊情形下，个人信息的“信息”属性也非常鲜明地凸显出来。
In such a special case, the "information" attribute of personal information also stands out clearly.
疫情信息作为疫情防控的基础支撑性要素，其中不可避免包含对海量个人信息的收集、处理和传输，因为人恰恰是疫情传播的基本单元和载体。
Epidemic information is the basis of epidemic prevention and control, which inevitably involves the collection, processing and transmission of large amounts of personal information, because people are the basic unit and carrier of the spread of the epidemic.
在个人信息保护领域，时常被讨论的“公共安全”和“个人利益”的关系，在这个特殊时期像被置于放大镜下面一样集中体现出来。
In the field of personal information protection, the often-discussed relationship between "public safety" and "personal interest" is as central to this particular period as being placed under a magnifying glass.
作为疫情信息和防控机制的一部分，个人不可避免要让渡自己包括个人信息在内的权利和利益，来换取整体风险的控制和安全。
As part of epidemic information and control mechanisms, individuals inevitably cede their rights and interests, including personal information, in return for control and security of the overall risk.
因此，尽管目前中国现有的个人信息保护制度，尚未明确确立不需个人同意而进行个人信息收集和利用的“例外”规则，但无论是基于相关法律法规的现有规定，还是基于一般性的法律原则，有关部门基于对于疫情信息的处理权限，对个人信息进行未经同意的处理，基础的合法性是不应受到质疑的。
Thus, although China's current personal information protection system does not explicitly establish an "exception" rule for the collection and use of personal information without individual consent, the legitimacy of the basis should not be questioned, whether based on existing provisions of relevant laws and regulations or on general legal principles, and the authority to process epidemic information without consent.
规范处理仍有遗憾遗憾的是，在疫情防控前期，的确出现了一些对于个人信息不受限制、未经规范的随意传播现象。
Normative Handling Still Regrets that, in the pre-epidemic prevention and control phase, there have indeed been some uncontrolled and unregulated spread of personal information.
政府部门、媒体、群众，都出现了公布或者散播未经“脱敏”的个人信息的情况，批量武汉公民的身份信息被泄露、某些病毒携带者的行踪轨迹在社交媒体大量转发并引发众怒，而网友类似于集体“人肉搜索”并披露病毒携带者不良私生活引发群嘲的现象，也不在少数。
Government departments, the media and the general public have reported the publication or dissemination of personal information that is not "desensitized." There are also many instances of batch Wuhan citizens being divulged, the tracks of some virus carriers being widely relayed on social media, and netizens exhibiting collective "human flesh searches" and revealing the bad private lives of people living with the virus.
在疫情下，民众的注意力都高度集中并存在焦虑心理，这就使得，个人信息的泄露会导致特定人群处于“风口浪尖”，引发被孤立、歧视、甚至名誉严重受损等后果。
The high concentration of attention and anxiety associated with the epidemic has led to the disclosure of personal information, which can lead to isolation, discrimination and even serious reputational consequences for particular groups of people.
不加规范的个人信息处理和披露，会导致多重不良后果。
Unregulated processing and disclosure of personal information can lead to multiple negative consequences.
首先，出于隐私暴露和口诛笔伐的担忧，存在病毒感染风险的人群会倾向于隐瞒不报，并抱有侥幸心理，这实际上对于疫情信息的顺利收集会造成严重的阻碍，因此已经超越了个人利益保护的层面，上升到了对公共安全的威胁。
First, for reasons of privacy and fear of verbal abuse, people at risk of infection tend to hide and take what they need, which can seriously hamper the smooth collection of information on the epidemic, thus moving beyond the level of protection of personal interests to that of a threat to public safety.
其次，自发上报机制实际上是最节省成本的信息收集机制，如果由于个人信息的不规范处理，抑制了风险人群自发上报的积极性，那么需要采用更大规模的监控和排查机制，一方面大大增加了成本和本就有限的资源消耗；另一方面，升级的监控机制给更为普遍的人群带来隐私焦虑和不安全感，从而陷入恶性循环。
Second, the spontaneous reporting mechanism is in fact the most cost-effective information-gathering mechanism. If irregular treatment of personal information discourages spontaneous reporting by at-risk groups, greater monitoring and screening mechanisms are needed to significantly increase costs and already limited resource consumption, while upgraded monitoring mechanisms can lead to a vicious cycle of privacy anxiety and insecurity for more general populations.
最后，也是更为重要的是，在疫情面前，个人尊严同样需要被捍卫和尊重。
Last but not least, in the face of the epidemic, the dignity of the individual equally needs to be defended and respected.
数字社会中，个人信息和隐私权保护的必要性越来越被普遍认同，被认为是事关人们保全尊严和独立人格的重要利益。
In the digital society, the necessity of the protection of personal information and privacy is increasingly recognized as an important interest in preserving human dignity and independent personality.
人们可以容忍因为公共健康安全而让渡一部分利益，可以未经同意由有关部门进行收集和处理，但是这种让渡应当是严格限于防控疫情目的和范围的。
People can tolerate the transfer of some benefits for public health and safety, which can be collected and handled by the relevant departments without consent, but such alienation should be strictly limited to the purpose and scope of the control of the epidemic.
尤其是，当这种权利的让渡有可能涉及到对民众其他权利和自由的进一步限制，就需要更加谨慎而规范。
In particular, when the alienation of such rights may involve further restrictions on other rights and freedoms of the population, greater care and regulation is required.
要建立规范化机制和手段具体而言，收集和处理疫情信息可能涉及到的个人信息，有可能非常全面立体。
In particular, the collection and processing of epidemic information may involve personal information that can be very comprehensive.
从个人的行踪轨迹、地理位置、家庭地址、工作单位这些与人员流动密切相关的位置信息，到接触关系网络、家庭成员、身份信息这些“接触追踪”所必要获取的信息，以及医疗信息，都可能在特定情况下成为疫情防控所收集的对象。
The information needed to "track" an individual's whereabouts, geographic location, home address, workplace - all of which are closely related to the movement of people - to contact networks, family members, identity information, and medical information - can be targeted for epidemic prevention and control in specific situations.
从疫情防控的视角，一方面需要通过较高量级的大数据分析，来监测与掌握全国与重点地区人员流动情况，进行态势研判和预测预警，协助提升政策落实过程中的精细化和精准度；另一方面，对于被判断出存在不同等级实质性风险的人群，则需要对其进行身份识别并分类分层采取措施，如2006年发布的《国家突发公共卫生事件应急预案》所言，“对流动人口采取预防工作，落实控制措施，对传染病病人、疑似病人采取就地隔离、就地观察、就地治疗的措施，对密切接触者根据情况采取集中或居家医学观察”。
From the point of view of epidemic prevention and control, it is necessary to monitor and master the movement of people in the country and key areas through high-level big data analysis, make situation assessment and forecast early warning, help improve the precision and precision of the implementation of the policy.
从政府和企业的表述看，在对上述第一类人群的信息处理过程中，会强调对于个人信息的匿名化处理，即通常所说的“数据脱敏”，而仅供整体态势研判所用。
According to the government and enterprises, the anonymization of personal information, commonly referred to as "data desensitization," will be emphasized in the process of information processing for the above-mentioned groups of people, and will only be used for overall situation analysis.
而对第二类人群个人信息的使用，则涉及到基于风险判断而对于原始个人信息的还原、追踪和处理。
The use of personal information of the second kind of population involves the reduction, tracking and processing of original personal information based on risk judgment.
更为重要的是，除了处理这些个人信息之外，还需要根据信息的分析结果，对个人采取相应的措施，这些措施一般来说都会涉及到限制行为自由等各项个人权利，在个人拒不配合的情况下还可以采取强制措施，严重者有可能动用刑事制裁。
More importantly, in addition to the processing of such personal information, measures need to be taken against individuals on the basis of an analysis of the information, which generally involve individual rights such as restrictions on freedom of movement, as well as coercive measures and, in serious cases, the use of criminal sanctions, where individuals refuse to cooperate.
这在2003年由国务院发布并在2011年修订的《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》中已有相关规定。
This is already provided for in the Emergency Regulations for Public Health Emergencies, issued by the State Council in 2003 and amended in 2011.
举例来说，北京新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室2月14日发布的《关于进一步明确疫情防控期间返京人员有关要求的通告》要求：“即日起所有返京人员到京后均应居家或集中观察14天。
For example, the Office of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia in Beijing issued on February 14 requires that "all returning personnel should stay at home or be under intensive observation for 14 days after their arrival in Beijing.
拒绝接受居家观察、集中观察等防控措施的，依法追究责任。
Refusal to accept home observation, centralized observation and other preventive and control measures shall be investigated for responsibility.
回京前，须提前向在京所在单位及居住的社区（村）报告。
Before returning to Beijing, you should report in advance to the units and communities (villages) where you live in Beijing.
”通知虽短，涉及的个人信息数量和相关工作量却是巨大。
Despite the short notice, the amount of personal information involved and the amount of work involved are enormous.
假设从重点地区返京的个人，根据北京市的这个通告，需要自行向单位和社区（村）报备其行程，并自行居家或集中观察14天。
According to the notice, individuals returning to Beijing from key areas will be required to report their itinerary to their units and communities (villages) and stay at home or for 14 days under intensive observation.
如果出于各种原因未能报备——这种情况实际上从媒体报道看并不少见——则除了潜在的法律责任之外，还可能通过他人的举报，或者政府部门或其授权机构（疾病防控机构、医院、运输部门、单位/社区等）的主动排查被获知，还有一种可能性就是通过手机信令等移动互联网的手段分析出实际情况。
If, for various reasons, it is not uncommon, as reported in the media, it is possible, in addition to potential legal liability, to analyse the situation through reports from others or through the initiative of government departments or their authorized agencies (disease control agencies, hospitals, transport departments, units / communities, etc.), or through mobile Internet means such as cell phone signaling.
在这三种可能性里面，前面两种法律法规已经作出明确规定，比如，《传染病防治法》《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》都规定了，任何单位和个人“有权向人民政府及其有关部门报告突发事件隐患”，“发现传染病病人或者疑似传染病病人时，应当及时向附近的疾病预防控制机构或者医疗机构报告。
Among these three possibilities, the first two laws and regulations have already made clear that, for example, the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases and the Emergency Regulations for Public Health Emergencies provide that any unit or individual "shall have the right to report potential emergencies to the people's government and its relevant departments."
”第三种可能性，目前尚无明确的规定，但亦是目前民众最容易对于个人信息过度采集担忧的情况，如何将该举措有效纳入现有的法律法规体系，以及出台更有针对性的适当的政策和细则，亟需探讨。
The third possibility, which is not yet clearly defined, is that the public is most concerned about excessive collection of personal information, and how to effectively integrate the initiative into existing legal and regulatory frameworks and put in place more targeted and appropriate policies and regulations needs to be explored.
在这些未经个人同意的个人信息收集、报告、传输、反馈过程中，需要建立规范化的机制和手段。
In the process of collecting, reporting, transmitting and feedback personal information without the consent of individuals, there is a need to establish standardized mechanisms and means.
首先，尽管任何单位和个人有权甚至有义务“报告”，但是接收报告的入口应当尽量集中并规范化，并向社会进行及时公告。
First, while any unit or individual has the right, and even the obligation, to "report," the entry point for receiving reports should be as centralized and standardized as possible, and timely announcements should be made to the public.
对于收集到的个人信息应当妥善保存且尽可能采取保密手段，对于相关工作人员应当做出最基础的培训，避免此前出现的批量个人信息表格通过微信群等方式在网上不受限制地大量散播，实际上也已经有相关工作人员因此受到处罚，但是更广范围内的规范化机制，如操作具体流程和纪律框架，还亟需建设。
Collected personal information should be properly maintained and kept confidential to the extent possible, and staff should be given the most basic training to avoid the widespread and unrestricted online dissemination of previously generated bulk personal information forms, including through micromail groups, for which relevant staff members have in fact been penalized, but broader normative mechanisms, such as operating specific processes and disciplinary frameworks, need to be developed.
其次，对于评估存在风险的特定人群，确定采取相应措施后，也应当根据情况对其个人信息进行最小化原则的使用，例如尽量限制掌握手机号码、具体地址、身份信息的人员范围，避免对相关风险人群的过度打扰。
Second, the use of the principle of minimization of personal information should also be applied, as appropriate, to specific populations at risk, following the identification of appropriate measures, such as limiting the range of persons with mobile phone numbers, specific addresses and identification information to the extent possible, and avoiding undue interference with the populations at risk.
在需要更大范围公布信息以进行预警的情况下，也应当尽可能做出匿名化处理，仅将预警所需的地点、时间及相关注意事项进行定向或者一定范围内的披露，而无需包含可以识别到个人身份的信息，从而避免个人信息泄露给个人带来的困扰。
Where wider dissemination of information is required for early warning, anonymity should also be achieved, to the extent possible, by providing only targeted or limited disclosures of locations, times and related caveats required for early warning, without the need to include personally identifiable information, thereby avoiding the perturbation of the disclosure of personal information to individuals.
此前网上出现地方政府对于特定人员数日行动轨迹的具体描述，包括其所在村落、小区、门牌号、姓氏以及与亲友的具体互动，这很可能导致特定社区的人可以定位到具体个人，对其造成隐私泄露的困扰。
Previously, specific descriptions by local governments of the movements of particular individuals over the course of a few days, including their village, neighbourhood, number, surname and specific interactions with relatives and friends, were likely to result in individuals in a given community being targeted and subjected to privacy leaks.
比较合适的做法是北京市对于每日确诊或疑似病例活动过的小区进行公示，由于这将个人身份完全“脱敏”，因此本身不是对于个人信息的披露，也能较好地起到面向公众的有效警示作用。
It would be more appropriate for Beijing to publish notices for neighbourhoods where daily confirmed or suspected cases have been active, since this would completely "desensitize" individuals, and thus would not in itself be a disclosure of personal information, but would also serve as an effective warning to the public.
利用“大数据+网格化”的手段收集疫情信息、推进疫情治理，的确可以在局部领域借助大数据的技术优势提升治理效果，但是这种技术手段前所未有地深入到每个人的生活日常，如果不加节制，尤其是如若未能保持对于隐私和个人信息的尊重和敬畏，则有可能使得民众产生一种被“全面监控”的不安全感和抵触感。
Collecting epidemic information and promoting disease control by means of "big data + grid" can indeed improve governance in local areas with the technological advantages of big data, but this technology is more deeply embedded in everyone's daily life than ever before, and if left unchecked, especially if respect and reverence for privacy and personal information are not maintained, it can create a sense of insecurity and resistance.
这样一来，一方面不利于更加全面而深入地推进疫情治理；另一方面，疫情当前，唯有设计、采用并落实具有人情味的规范和机制，把每一个个体的生命和尊严都视若珍宝，才能真正强化众志成城、共克时艰所必需的信任感和凝聚力，并迎来最终的胜利。
This, on the one hand, is not conducive to a more comprehensive and in-depth treatment of the epidemic; on the other hand, only the design, adoption and implementation of norms and mechanisms with a human face that value the life and dignity of every individual can truly strengthen the trust and cohesion needed to overcome these difficulties and usher in a final victory.
（作者为中国社会科学院大学互联网法治研究中心执行主任，编辑：鲁伟）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is executive director of the Internet Rule of Law Center at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, editor: Lu Wei.) Click here to see more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
身份信息被泄露？防控疫情背后的大数据治理权衡。
Identity information leaked? Controlling the big data governance trade-offs behind the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "身份信息被泄露？防控疫情背后的大数据治理权衡";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; ID information leaked? Control & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "有关部门基于对于疫情信息的处理权限，对个人信息进行未经同意的处理，其基础的合法性不应受到质疑，但同时也应该建立更加规范化的机制和手段处理个人信息";。
Valar msg _ desc = & quot; The legality of unconsented handling of personal information by authorities based on its authority to process epidemic information should not be questioned, but should also include more formalized mechanisms and tools to deal with personal information and inquiries;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
