全民宅家，疫情如何影响中国食品饮料消费市场？。
How does the epidemic affect China's food and beverage consumer market?
李湛 蔡娜。
Li Chaina Chaina.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
中长期来看，疫情推进行业再次洗牌，经营能力强的龙头酒企全年业绩有望得到保证，而大众食品行业中的必选消费品优势再次凸显，乳品、家庭调味品、方便食品等龙头企业全年业绩波及有限图/unsplash文|李湛 蔡娜 2003年的非典疫情影响周期超过半年，期间抑制消费，中国第三产业GDP受波及影响长达两个季度。
In the medium to long term, the industry is again shuffling its cards, and the annual performance of leading liquor companies with strong business capabilities is expected to be reasserted. The dominance of dairy, household condiments and ready-to-eat items has again been highlighted.
另一方面，非典疫情影响社会消费数据仅是短期性，待疫情控制后迅速回升。
On the other hand, the impact of the SARS epidemic on social consumption data is only short-term in nature, after the epidemic control quickly recovered.
此次新冠疫情发生于春节旺季，短期影响整体消费市场究竟有多大？新冠疫情的发生，抑制了中国春节期间的旺季需求，叠加民众宅家，不管是整体的外出就餐、还是家庭聚会，此类的消费均被抑制。
The outbreak of the new crown comes during the Spring Festival season, and its short-term impact on the overall consumer market is such that the outbreak of the new crown has dampened demand during the Spring Festival season, and the consumption of such items has been curbed, whether it is for eating out as a whole or for family gatherings.
细分来看，白酒行业在此次疫情影响下，行业商务宴请及个人需求均被抑制，春节旺季需求大幅下滑，而终端消费受阻，行业供给端酒企库存难以消化。
In terms of breakdown, the liquor industry in the impact of the epidemic, industry business banquet and personal demand are suppressed, the Spring Festival season demand has fallen sharply, and the end consumption is blocked, the industry supply wine enterprises inventory difficult to digest.
大众食品行业，疫情爆发，民众宅家，禁止聚会，餐饮受损较大，同时，年货市场遇冷，其相关的调味品、以休闲食品、啤酒为代表的大众食品均受到影响。
The mass food industry, the outbreak of outbreaks, people's homes, ban on gatherings, food damage, but also the New Year's market cold, its related seasonings, leisure food, beer as the representative of the public food are affected.
疫情影响下，民众在家，必选消费品业绩优势凸显。
Influenced by the epidemic, people at home, consumer products must be selected to highlight the performance advantages.
我们认为，此次疫情将对中国短期的消费市场造成较大影响，长期来看，春节旺季的食品饮料企业收入一般是占比最大的，因此旺季销量的流失将对大部分企业全年业绩造成影响。
We believe that the epidemic will have a greater impact on China's short-term consumer market. In the long run, food and beverage enterprises usually earn the largest proportion of their income during the Spring Festival season.
中长期来看，疫情推进行业再次洗牌，经营能力强的龙头酒企全年业绩有望得到保证。
In the medium to long term, the epidemic industry to re-shuffle, strong operational capacity of leading wine enterprises are expected to be guaranteed year-round performance.
大众食品行业，疫情影响下，必选消费品优势再次凸显，乳品、家庭调味品、方便食品等龙头企业全年业绩波及有限。
In the mass food industry, under the influence of the epidemic situation, the advantages of consumer goods must be re-emphasized, dairy products, household condiments, convenience food and other leading enterprises have limited year-round performance.
非典疫情（SARS）影响及分析非典疫情影响周期超过半年。
SARS epidemic (SARS) affects and analyzes the SARS epidemic impact cycle more than half a year.
根据新闻及数据显示，从2002年11月中旬广东佛山出现首例非典患者，到2003年6月末WHO将中国大陆从疫区中除名，非典事件从始至终影响时间超过半年。
According to news and data, the first case of SARS occurred in Foshan, Guangdong in mid-November 2002, and by the end of June 2003, WHO removed mainland China from the epidemic area.
非典疫情对中国第三产业GDP波及影响长达两个季度，控制后企稳回升。
SARS epidemic on China's tertiary industry GDP ripple effect for up to two quarters, after control of the recovery.
2003年非典疫情的爆发，中国GDP增速从第一季度的11.1%下滑至第二季度的9.1%，随着疫情在第二季度末得到控制，中国GDP自第三季度起回升。
With the outbreak of the SARS epidemic in 2003, China's GDP growth slowed from 11.1% in the first quarter to 9.1% in the second quarter.
细分各产业看，影响最大是第二产业，其次是第三产业（最终消费支出）从当年第一季度的10.5%下滑至第二季度的8.7%，非典疫情对中国第三产业波及影响长达两个季度。
In terms of breakdown by industry, the greatest impact was in the secondary sector, followed by the tertiary sector (final consumption expenditure), which fell from 10.5 per cent in the first quarter of the year to 8.7 per cent in the second quarter.
随后待疫情控制后，中国GDP企稳回升，整体消费在较强的消费力背景下，在第三、第四季度中国第三产业GDP回升至两位数增长，10.1%。
After the epidemic was under control, China's GDP recovered steadily and overall consumption recovered to double-digit 10.1 per cent in the third and fourth quarters against the background of strong consumption power.
非典疫情影响社会消费数据仅是短期性，待疫情控制后迅速回升。
The SARS epidemic affects the social consumption data is only short-term in nature, after the epidemic is under control to recover rapidly.
回顾2003年非典期间，中国第三产业GDP受到两个季度影响，而中国社会消费增速仅在疫情爆发应对期间的4月、5月出现断崖式下滑，最低达到5月的4.3%。
Looking back at the SARS epidemic in 2003, China's GDP in the tertiary sector was affected by two quarters, while China's social consumption growth fell only precipitously in April and May of the response period, reaching a low of 4.3 per cent in May.
随后在疫情末期，社会零售增速迅速反弹。
Then, at the end of the epidemic, social retail growth rebounded rapidly.
另一方面，从消费者信心指数来看，受非典疫情的影响，导致消费信心在爆发期间出现明显下滑，但在疫情得以控制后，作为前瞻性的消费者信心指数再次回升，表明非典疫情对中国消费造成的影响是短期性。
On the other hand, the impact of the SARS epidemic has led to a marked decline in consumer confidence during the outbreak, but once the epidemic has been contained, it has rebounded again as a forward-looking consumer confidence index, indicating that the impact of the SARS epidemic on Chinese consumption is short-term.
非典疫情抑制消费，必选消费品刚性特性显现。
SARS epidemic inhibits consumption, must choose the rigid characteristics of consumer products.
在2003年非典疫情影响下，中国消费需求出现明显分化。
Under the impact of SARS epidemic in 2003, China's consumption demand showed marked differentiation.
必选消费增速是明显快于可选消费增速，消费者对于必选消费品需求基本保持稳健，而可选消费零售总额在爆发期的5月出现明显下跌。
Required consumption grew at a markedly faster rate than optional consumption, with consumer demand for discretionary consumer goods remaining largely robust, while total discretionary retail sales fell markedly in May of the outbreak period.
另一方面，疫情期间，食品CPI不断，在通胀周期的背景下，CPI与必选消费增速走势较为一致，反映出在需求压力下，必选消费品的刚需特性。
On the other hand, during the epidemic, the food CPI continued, in the context of the inflation cycle, CPI and the trend of mandatory consumption growth trend more consistent, reflecting the demand pressure, must choose consumer goods just the characteristics.
非典食品饮料板块跑输大盘，必选消费品业绩波及较小疫情期间，整体板块跑输大盘，细分板块受疫情影响出现分化。
SARS food and drink plate running to the market, consumer products must be selected to affect the performance of the smaller epidemic, the overall plate run to the market, subdivision plate affected by the outbreak of differentiation.
根据数据显示，我们可以看出在2003年非典期间，食品饮料整体板块跑输大盘，同时，在爆发的4、5月期间，其走势与沪深300进一步拉开差距。
According to the data, we can see that during SARS in 2003, the whole plate of food and beverages lost market, while in April and May, the trend of the gap between Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 further widened.
细分子板块来看，可以看出，作为必选消费品乳制品及肉制品跑赢沪深300，与餐饮相关性较高的调味品、白酒、及啤酒板块跌幅较为明显。
Looking at the molecular plate, it can be seen that as a must-choose consumer products dairy products and meat products win 300 Shanghai and Shenzhen, catering-related high-seasoning, liquor, and beer plate decline more obvious.
白酒整体业绩承压，大众必选消费品企业业绩保持稳健。
Liquor overall performance under pressure, the public must choose consumer products enterprises to maintain a solid performance.
非典期间，整体消费市场受到影响，不管是白酒还是非白酒企业业绩均出现不同程度的下滑。
During SARS period, the whole consumption market was affected, whether white wine or non-white wine enterprises have all experienced varying degrees of decline.
细分来看，白酒行业中，高端酒企业绩增速较为稳健，次高端及中低端地方酒企受市场需求下降等影响，03Q2业绩不管是营收还是净利润增速均出现下滑。
In terms of subdivision, the performance of high-end liquor enterprises in the liquor industry is more robust, the second-end and low-end local wine enterprises are affected by the decline in market demand, 03Q2 results, whether revenue or net profit growth rate declined.
大众食品方面，必选消费品企业业绩增速相对亮眼，乳制品伊利股份及肉制品双汇发展均在非典期间，业绩反而相对收益。
Popular food, consumer products enterprises growth rate is relatively bright, dairy Yili shares and meat products in the SARS period, the results of the relative benefits.
对比非典疫情，此次新冠影响有所差异新冠肺炎仍处在爆发应对期。
In contrast to SARS, the impact of the new crown is different New Crown Pneumonia is still in response to the outbreak.
从本次新冠疫情的时间线来看，疫情始于2019年12月8日，截至2月17日24时，此次疫情累计报告确证病例72436例，现有疑似病例6242例，累计死亡病例1868例。
As of 2400 hours on 17 February, there were 72,436 confirmed cases, 6,242 suspected cases and 1,868 cumulative deaths from the outbreak, which began on 8 December 2019.
目前，政府正在积极应对，民众则通过选择宅在家进行隔离，新型肺炎疫情仍处在爆发应对期。
At present, the government is actively responding, people through the choice of homes for isolation, the new pneumonia epidemic is still in response to the outbreak.
此次疫情或将对中国第三产业的GDP造成一定影响。
The outbreak is likely to have an impact on China's tertiary GDP.
对比2003年非典，根据目前中国出口、投资及消费对GDP增长贡献率数据来看，自2008年起，居民消费对GDP的增长拉动越发明显，其已成为中国经济增长的重要推动因素。
In comparison with SARS in 2003, according to the current data on the contribution of China's exports, investment and consumption to GDP growth, household consumption has been increasing significantly since 2008, making it an important driver of China's economic growth.
此前，非典疫情影响中国第三产业的GDP时长达两个季度，因此我们认为此次新冠肺炎将对中国第三产业造成一定影响。
Since the SARS epidemic affected China's tertiary sector GDP for two quarters, we think the new outbreak will have an impact on China's tertiary industry.
对比非典，此次疫情发生于春节旺季，短期将影响整体消费市场。
In contrast to SARS, the outbreak occurred in the Spring Festival season, short-term will affect the overall consumer market.
通过时间线对比两次疫情事件，可以看出，此次新冠疫情与非典疫情有所差异。
Through the time line comparison of two outbreaks, we can see that the new crown epidemic and SARS epidemic is different.
非典疫情发生于中国消费市场淡季（爆发期于第二季度），而此次疫情发生于2020年的春节期间。
The SARS epidemic occurred during the low season in China's consumer market (the second quarter of the outbreak) and occurred during the Spring Festival in 2020.
新冠疫情的发生，抑制了中国春节期间的旺季需求，叠加民众宅家，不管是整体的外出就餐、还是家庭聚会，此类的消费均被抑制。
The outbreak of the new crown has curbed demand during the Spring Festival in China, and overlay people's homes, whether they are eating out as a whole or attending family gatherings.
我们认为，此次疫情将对中国短期的消费市场造成较大影响，长期来看，春节旺季的食品饮料企业收入一般是占比最大的，因此旺季销量的流失将对大部分企业全年业绩造成影响。
We believe that the epidemic will have a greater impact on China's short-term consumer market. In the long run, food and beverage enterprises usually earn the largest proportion of their income during the Spring Festival season.
白酒行业：短期市场需求被抑制，酒企业绩承压对比非典时期白酒行业的整体表现，由于其疫情爆发集中于第二季度，随着疫情得到控制，第三季度消费旺季到来，酒企业绩从第三季度起基本企稳回升，整体动销稳健，酒企业绩波及有限。
Liquor industry: short-term market demand was suppressed, wine enterprises performance compared to the overall performance of the SARS liquor industry, due to its concentrated outbreak in the second quarter, as the epidemic was under control, the third quarter consumption season began to come, wine business performance basically recovered from the third quarter, overall robust sales, wine enterprise performance affected limited.
而此次疫情发生于春节，不管是白酒行业的需求还是供给端均受到较大影响，短期酒企业绩承压。
And this outbreak occurred in the Spring Festival, whether the liquor industry demand or supply side are affected by a large, short-term wine enterprises under pressure.
1）需求端：商务宴请及个人需求均被抑制，春节需求基本为零。
1) Demand side: Business dinners and personal demand are suppressed, Spring Festival demand is essentially zero.
2）供给端：酒企渠道库存较高，中小酒企持续承压民众宅家，白酒消费受到抑制。
2) Supply side: the wine enterprise channel inventory is high, small and medium-sized enterprises continue to pressure the public house, liquor consumption is restrained.
不管是白酒消费端占比最大的商务应酬还是朋友聚会消费，受此次疫情影响，均受到较为严重的影响。
Whether it is the liquor consumption side of the largest business or friends gathering consumption, affected by the epidemic, are more seriously affected.
细分来看，高端白酒方面，以茅台为代表的高端白酒，受其稀缺特性影响，多以高端送礼及自饮或收藏为主，其需求影响有限。
In terms of subdivision, the high-end liquor, represented by Maotai, is influenced by its scarcity, mainly high-end gift-giving and self-drinking or collection, and its demand is limited.
次高端白酒及大众酒，受到餐饮门店关闭，民众不允许出门及拒绝聚餐等多项条理限制，此类白酒消费大幅下降，市场消费旺季转为淡季。
Second-end liquor and mass spirits, closed by restaurants and restaurants, people are not allowed to go out and refuse to eat a number of organizational restrictions, such as a sharp decline in consumption of such liquor, market consumption peak season into low-season.
终端消费受阻，短期酒企库存难以消化。
End consumption is blocked, short-term liquor stock is difficult to digest.
白酒行业渠道方面，疫情爆发前，多家酒企已进入春节备货阶段，高端白酒动销表现较为亮眼，酒企春节出货及回款基本提早完成。
Liquor industry channels, before the outbreak of the epidemic, a number of wine enterprises have entered the Spring Festival preparation stage, high-end liquor marketing performance is more eye-catching, the wine enterprises Spring Festival shipments and cash basically completed early.
随着新冠疫情大面积爆发，企业延期复工（酒企及经销商），白酒市场需求大幅萎缩，这使得大部分酒企及经经销商存在较大库存问题，白酒短期实际终端消费受到严重影响。
With the outbreak of the new crown epidemic, enterprises have postponed the resumption of work (wine enterprises and dealers), the demand for liquor market has shrunk, which has caused the majority of liquor companies and dealers to have a large stock problem, and liquor short-term real end consumption has been seriously affected.
随着春节原本的春节旺季即将结束，马上进入白酒市场的消费淡季，短期内，酒企库存消化受到冲击。
With the Spring Festival Spring Festival originally close to the end of the market immediately into the consumption of liquor market slack season, short-term, wine stocks digest the impact.
疫情推进行业再次洗牌，经营能力强者为王。
Outbreak promotion industry reshuffles the card again, the management ability strong is king.
此次新冠疫情爆发于春节期间，整体白酒行业业绩受终端消费市场大幅下滑及短期酒企高库存影响，短期内，我们认为酒企节前受提前备货动销良好所致，其业绩影响有限，但春节期间业绩预计将受到冲击。
During the Spring Festival period, the overall performance of the liquor industry will be affected by the sharp decline in the terminal consumption market and the high stock of short-term liquor stocks.
此次疫情不管是对酒企的经营状况还是企业现金流都造成一定影响，细分来看，高端白酒及次高端龙头酒企依靠自身较强的经营能力及优秀得管理团队，通过与经销商共同奋战，将进一步避免出现优质经销商流失、产品价格错乱等问题，企业全年业绩有望得到保证。
The epidemic will not only affect the business conditions of the enterprises, but also the cash flow of enterprises. In terms of subdivision, the high-end liquor and sub-high-end liquor companies will avoid the loss of quality dealers and price derangement through their strong management skills and excellent management team, will further avoid the loss of high-quality dealers, product price derangement, and so on.
另一方面，中小酒企由于自身品牌、渠道管控、现金流实力相对较弱，在此次疫情的冲击下，市场份额将会逐步流失，业绩或将持续承压。
On the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises because of their own brand, channel control, cash flow strength is relatively weak, under the impact of the epidemic, market share will gradually lose, performance may continue to bear pressure.
未来，在疫情得到控制后，市场需求持续分化，行业集中度有望进一步提升，龙头酒企加速消化库存，经营能力进一步加强。
In the future, after the epidemic is under control, market demand continues to diverge, industry concentration is expected to further improve, leading wine enterprises to accelerate the digestion of inventories, further strengthening operational capacity.
大众食品行业：民众宅家，必选消费品需求稳健春节期间销售额大幅下降，企业不断寻求出路。
Popular food industry: home, consumer goods demand steady during the Spring Festival sales plummeted, enterprises continue to seek a way out.
疫情爆发，民众宅家，禁止聚会，餐饮受损较大，同时，年货市场遇冷，其相关的调味品、以休闲食品、啤酒为代表的大众食品均受到影响。
The outbreak of the epidemic, people's homes, ban on gatherings, food damage, but also in the New Year's market cold, its related seasonings, leisure food, beer as the representative of the public food are affected.
对比2003年的非典，随着餐饮行业不断创新转变，餐饮行业及大众食品企业均在此次通过无接触配送方式尽力挽回企业营业额。
In contrast to SARS in 2003, as the catering industry continued to innovate and transform, the catering industry and mass food enterprises in this way through contact distribution to save business turnover.
但企业复工推迟，春节期间营业额大幅下降多方面影响，成本端的压力使得大众食品企业短期承压。
But the delay in the resumption of work, the Spring Festival turnover significantly reduced the impact of many aspects, cost-side pressure so that public food enterprises short-term pressure.
目前，企业正呼吁政府通过减免租金，推迟缴纳员工五险一金及减税降费等方式帮助企业渡过这次难关。
Businesses are calling on the government to help them tide over the crisis by cutting rents, postponing employee contributions and lowering tax rates.
疫情爆发，必选消费品优势再次凸显。
Outbreak of the epidemic, consumer products to choose the advantage again highlighted.
回顾此前非典疫情可以看出，必选消费品成为消费者首选。
Looking back on the previous SARS epidemic can see that consumer choice becomes the first choice.
而对比此次疫情，新冠疫情的爆发影响了整体春节期间大众品销量。
In contrast to this outbreak, the outbreak of the New Crown affected the overall Spring Festival sales of popular goods.
叠加随后的封城政策出台、全国民众宅家策略及全国延期复工等政策，无疑对中国短期消费市场造成一定影响，在居民消费能力有限背景下，类似乳品、家庭调味品、方便食品等必选消费品优势再次凸显。
The policy of superimposing the subsequent closure policy, the national strategy of home ownership and the national moratorium on the resumption of work will undoubtedly have an impact on China's short-term consumer market. Under the background of limited consumer capacity, the advantages of such consumer goods as dairy products, household condiments and ready-to-eat items are re-emphasized.
乳品行业：整体来看，乳品行业在2003年非典期间，其波及影响较小。
Dairy industry: Overall, the dairy industry in 2003 during the SARS, its impact was relatively small.
我们预计此次新冠疫情对乳品行业影响主要来自两方面，第一，疫情爆发于春节期间，低线城市的春节礼赠消费将受影响，第二，民众宅家，购物频次相对有所减少，乳品复购率有所下滑。
We expect the impact of the new crown on the dairy industry to come mainly from two sources. First, the outbreak of the Chinese New Year during the Spring Festival, low-line cities will be affected by the gift consumption, second, people's homes, shopping frequency relatively reduced, dairy repurchase rate has declined.
但乳品自身营业价值高，属于民众日常必选消费品，乳企将通过线上渠道，与商场加大合作，通过配送方式可挽救乳品销量。
But the dairy products themselves high business value, belongs to the people's daily necessities consumer goods, dairy enterprises will be through online channels, and shopping malls to increase cooperation, through distribution methods can save milk sales.
总体来看，我们认为受供应链限制，常温奶销量将强于低温奶销量，而龙头乳企通过自身优势，有望缓解疫情所带来的冲击，全年业绩影响有限。
Overall, we believe that supply chain constraints will lead to stronger sales of warm milk than low-temperature milk sales, and the advantages of leading dairy companies are expected to mitigate the impact of the epidemic, with limited impact throughout the year.
调味品行业：回顾2003年非典，餐饮行业业绩大幅下滑，传统调味品酱油受到一定负面影响，而醋因传闻具有预防杀菌功效销量剧增。
Seasoning Industry: Looking back on SARS in 2003, the performance of the catering industry declined significantly, traditional sauces soy sauce affected by a certain negative impact, and vinegar rumored to have a preventive sterilization effect sales soared.
就此次新冠疫情而言，因外出就餐及宴席消费在春节期间明显被抑制，作为调味品行业中餐饮消费占比最重的渠道销量基本折腰再折腰。
In the case of the new crown epidemic, dining out and banquet consumption were significantly suppressed during the Spring Festival, as the seasoning industry as the largest portion of the channel sales volume basic waist down.
虽餐饮加速线上渠道布局，打开无接触配送，但受限于供应链及食品安全问题，市场打开有限。
Although catering speed line channel layout, open contact distribution, but limited supply chain and food safety issues, the market opened limited.
另一方面，受民众宅家及企业延期复工等因素影响，中国调味品下游消费渠道占比30%的家庭消费需求增加。
On the other hand, the consumption demand of households with 30% of the consumption channels downstream of seasonings in China was increased by factors such as the postponement of the resumption of work by people's houses and enterprises.
总体来看，此次疫情对餐饮端产生较大影响，而以家庭渠道为主的调味品企业受其需求增加影响，企业成本端承压较小，波及有限。
Overall, the epidemic on the catering side of the larger impact, and the family channel-based seasoning enterprises are affected by the increase in demand, the cost-side pressure of enterprises is smaller, affected limited.
速冻食品行业：在近些年市场规模迅增长的速冻食品行业，受此次疫情影响，餐饮门店关店、企业延期复工中间零售批发市场关门等，其零售额遭到冲击。
Fast-frozen food industry: the rapid growth of the market scale in recent years, the impact of the epidemic, restaurants and stores, enterprises to resume the middle retail wholesale market closed, and its retail volume has been hit.
虽家庭渠道需求增长，但C端的需求增长短时间内无法弥补B端较大的需求量。
Although the family channel demand growth, but C demand growth in the short term can not make up for B end of the larger demand.
休闲综合食品行业：此次疫情对于线上休闲食品波及有限，根据数据显示，线上休闲食品的备货基本在春节前已进入尾声，因此消费者早已购买做好提前囤货，线上休闲食品的春节销量目标基本完成。
The epidemic has had a limited impact on online leisure food, with consumers already buying and stocking ahead of the Spring Festival holiday, according to the data.
而作为线下休闲食品，例如卤制品、短保面包及商城门店的礼盒套装，受疫情影响，线下的春节需求均受到一定负面影响。
As an offline leisure food, such as halogen products, baguettes and gift sets in shopping malls, the epidemic affected the demand for offline Chinese New Year.
总体来看，此次疫情对于主要以线下销售为主的休闲食品企业冲击较大，未来，随着疫情逐步得以控制，还需不断关注企业对于春节挤压存货的动销情况，业绩方面，我们认为线下渠道门店的休闲食品及中小企业的全年业绩将会受到一定影响。
Overall, the epidemic mainly to off-line sales of leisure food enterprises impact more. In the future, as the epidemic is gradually under control, we need to continue to pay attention to the sales of the Spring Festival squeeze inventory, performance, we think the offline channels store leisure food and small and medium-sized enterprises will be affected.
风险提示：新冠疫情持续时长超预期，行业需求抑制；食品安全出现严重问题，影响消费者购买意愿。
Risk Tip: The new crown epidemic lasts longer than expected, industry demand is suppressed, food safety appears serious problem, affecting consumers' willingness to buy.
（作者李湛为中山证券首席经济学家，蔡娜为中山证券研究员）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Author Li Zhansheng, chief economist at Zhongshan Securities, and Cai Na, a researcher at Zhongshan Securities.) Click here to see more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全民宅家，疫情如何影响中国食品饮料消费市场？。
How does the epidemic affect China's food and beverage consumer market?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全民宅家，疫情如何影响中国食品饮料消费市场？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "中长期来看，疫情推进行业再次洗牌，经营能力强的龙头酒企全年业绩有望得到保证，而大众食品行业中的必选消费品优势";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
