新冠病患会否“复发”？极少数出院者核酸检测疑为假阴性。
Will there be "relapse" in new crown patients? Very few discharged patients are suspected to have false negative nucleic acid tests.
房宫一柳 等。
a willow house etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
这些患者再次发病的时间、病程和就诊难度各异，但他们至今不清楚，自己是“复发”还是没有被治愈？他们曾被计入治愈出院的统计病例中，而突发的症状和重新检测结果意味着，他们实际上没有被彻底治愈文|《财经》记者 房宫一柳刘以秦 纪麓 黎诗韵编辑|宋玮2020年2月20日，成都望江锦园小区一名新冠肺炎患者在宣布治愈出院后，隔离期间复查核酸试纸为阳性。
The timing, course and difficulty of the patients' relapse vary, but it remains unclear whether they have relapsed or have not been cured. They were counted in the statistics of cured discharges, and sudden symptoms and retests meant they were not actually cured.
这引发了当地民众警觉，担心是“复发”或“二次感染”。
This has alerted the local population to fears of a "relapse" or "secondary infection."
上述患者的同事告诉《财经》记者，该单位确有此位病患，但不确认是否二次住院，同时该病患并未在疫情前后与同事有接触。
A colleague told Caijing that the unit did have the patient, but did not confirm whether he had been hospitalized a second time and did not have contact with co-workers before and after the outbreak.
记者致电了该病患所在医院，未收到回复。
The reporter called the hospital where the patient was, but did not receive a response.
2月21日，四川省新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组成员雷学忠表示，此类病愈出院后再确诊的病例属于极少数，国内之前已有类似的情况。
On Feb. 21, Lei Xuezhong, a member of the Sichuan team of specialists in treating pneumonia in the Sichuan province of Xinguan, said the number of cases diagnosed after discharge was very small.
但该病例不属于复发，更大可能性是少数病毒的持续残留。
But the case is not a recurrence, more likely to be a small number of persistent virus residue.
但据记者了解，这一解释并非医学界人士的共识。
But reporters understand that this explanation is not the consensus of the medical community.
这样的病患，可以算作真正“治愈”吗？按照新冠肺炎的统计标准，这位出院又重新入院的病患应被算作一名“治愈”病例，还是一名新增“确诊”病例？香港大学李嘉诚医学院生物医学学院教授金冬雁接受《财经》记者采访时称：“康复者马上再感染，这是完全违背病毒学和免疫学基本原理的。
According to statistics on pneumonia, should the patient be treated as a "cured" or a new "confirmed" case? "The convalescent person will be reinfected immediately," Caijing told Caijing, a professor of biomedical sciences at the Li Ka Shing Medical School of the University of Hong Kong.
”关于“少数病毒的持续残留”，金冬雁教授认为这是一种不够科学的说辞。
"With regard to" persistent remnants of a few viruses, "Prof Goldwynn believes this is an unscientific argument.
他认为，可能性最高的，是测不准导致的假阴性。
The most likely, he believes, is false negatives caused by uncertainty.
正常情况下病毒载量也会有高低变化，而病毒载量降低后，由于检测试剂的灵敏度和取样等因素，可能带来假阴性。
Under normal circumstances, viral load will also have high and low, and the virus load reduction, due to detection reagent sensitivity and sampling factors, may bring false negative.
“承认这一点最直接了当。
"The most straightforward admission is made.
不然用其他奇奇怪怪的理由去解释，根本违背常理。
Otherwise, it would be contrary to common sense to interpret them in terms of other strange reasons.
”金冬雁说。
"said the goose.
成都市望江锦园病例事件的次日，2月21日，国家卫健委发布了《新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第五版）》，在实验室检测技术指南中明确提出，核酸检测结果阴性不能排除新型冠状病毒感染，需排除可能产生假阴性的因素。
A day after the case of Wangjiang Jinyuan in Chengdu, February 21, the National Health Protection Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Programme (5th edition)," in the technical guidelines for laboratory testing clearly stated that negative nucleic acid test results can not exclude the new coronavirus infection, the possible negative factors need to be excluded.
这一权威解释与金冬雁教授的说法基本一致。
This authoritative interpretation is basically consistent with that given by Professor Jin Dongyan.
湖北专家组组长赵建平表示，鼻咽拭子核酸试纸检测阳性率只有30-40%。
Zhao Jianping, head of the Hubei expert group, said only 30-40 percent of the test results were positive.
“假阴性情况如果增多，可能将在出院后进一步引起人传人。
"An increase in false negatives may cause further human-to-human transmission after discharge from the hospital.
”中南医院急救中心主任助理、急诊外科主任沈俊告诉《财经》记者。
Shen Jun, assistant director of emergency surgery at the Central South Hospital, told Caijing.
《财经》记者了解到，武汉人民医院及江夏区某大型医院的医护人员，均出现了出院隔离期间核酸阳性再次入院的情况。
"Caijing" reporter learned that Wuhan People's Hospital and a large hospital in Jiangxia District, the medical staff, there was isolation during the release of nucleic acid-positive re-admission.
1月27日湖北荆州市出院的第一个治愈病例，近期，又再次出现症状，后经核酸试纸检测为阳性后重新入院。
January 27, Hubei Jingzhou first out of the hospital case, recently, re-emergence of symptoms, after the positive nucleic acid test paper after re-admission.
上述病患的出院标准，都是根据2月8日印发的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案(试行第五版修正版)》中的“解除隔离和出院标准”： 体温恢复正常3天以上、呼吸道症状明显好转，连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性（采样时间间隔至少1天）。
The discharge criteria for the above patients are based on the "criteria for release from isolation and discharge" in the February 8 version of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Revision 5): the body temperature returned to normal for more than three days, respiratory symptoms improved markedly, and two consecutive RNA tests were negative (at least one day intervals).
2月18日，该方案修订到了第六版，出院标准新增了“肺部影像学显示急性渗出性病变明显改善”，以及“出院后注意事项”。
On February 18, the program was revised to the 6th edition, adding to the discharge criteria "significant improvements in lung imaging showing acute exudative lesions," and "post-discharge precautions."
截止2020年2月22日24时，全国新冠肺炎累计报告确诊病例76936人，累积治愈出院病例22888人。
As of 2400 hours on February 22, 2020, a cumulative total of 76936 confirmed cases and 22,888 cases of discharge from hospital had been reported nationwide.
从目前情况看，治愈出院后再转确诊的情况是极少数案例，但医学专家提醒，此类个案也值得重视，因为这可能带来潜在的病毒传播问题。
At present, there are very few cases in which referrals are cured after discharge, but medical experts caution that such cases also deserve attention because of the potential for transmission problems.
通过梳理和复盘，《财经》记者了解到，这其中更多是出院标准、核酸试纸准确性和出院后隔离措施的问题。
Through combing and rearranging the disk, Caijing reporter learned that this is more the discharge criteria, nucleic acid test paper accuracy and the post-discharge isolation measures.
“要排除感染病患，应该同时测抗体，如抗体有四倍以上增高才是进入恢复期。
"To exclude infected patients, antibodies should be measured at the same time, such as more than four times the increase in antibodies is the recovery period.
所以我建议要量产抗体试剂做辅助诊断。
So I recommend mass production of antibody reagents for auxiliary diagnosis.
”金冬雁教授说。
"said Professor Geese.
湖北武汉以外的城市医院，包括黄石、荆州、孝感等医院的多位医护人士对《财经》记者表示，出院患者可以做到每日回访。
A number of medical personnel from hospitals outside Wuhan, Hubei Province, including Huang Shi, Jingzhou and Xiaogan, told Caijing Daily that patients discharged from hospitals can make daily return visits.
但武汉市内，包括武汉金银潭医院在内，多数医院则表示，很难做到医院每日致电回访，需要患者自我观察、自我隔离。
But most hospitals in Wuhan, including the Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, said it was difficult for hospitals to call back daily, requiring self-observation and isolation.
武汉市患者出院后的情况跟踪，有望从2月23日起得到更好解决。
The situation of patients discharged from hospital in Wuhan is expected to be better solved from February 23.
2月22日晚间，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发布了《新冠肺炎治愈出院患者实施康复隔离的通告》，即日起，出院患者应到指定场所统一实施14天的免费康复隔离和医学观察。
On the evening of February 22, the Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command issued the Notice on the Treatment and Isolation of Patients Discharged with Newly Crowded Pneumonia, which stipulates that patients discharged from the hospital should undergo 14 days of free-of-charge isolation and medical observation in designated places.
观察期满，身体状况符合条件的将解除隔离。
At the end of the observation period, those eligible will be released from isolation.
而武汉市以外的地区，还未跟进该措施，全国还有上万感染者在医院，出院的2万多名康复患者在自我隔离中。
Outside Wuhan, the measure has not been followed up, with tens of thousands of infected people in hospitals across the country and more than 20,000 recovering patients discharged from hospitals isolated themselves.
在湖北一些地区，疫情仍在爬坡，从湖北到全国，防疫战还在继续。
In some areas of Hubei, the epidemic is still climbing, from Hubei to the whole country, the epidemic prevention war continues.
随着大量新冠肺炎患者康复出院，一个新挑战已出现：应如何打好两万多康复病患的后续防守战。
A new challenge has emerged as more than 20, 000 recovering patients have been discharged from hospital.
出院又入院的病患2月12日，刘阳的父亲从武汉某新冠肺炎定点医院出院，回到了空荡荡的家，此前刘阳的母亲已经在疫情中去世。
Liu Yang's father was discharged from a hospital in Wuhan with pneumonia on Feb. 12 and returned to his empty home after his mother died of the disease.
刘阳告诉《财经》记者，2月10日，医院根据老人超过3日没有出现发烧、咳嗽的症状，要求其出院。
Liu told Caijing that on February 10, the hospital asked the elderly people to leave the hospital because they did not have fever or cough for more than three days.
在刘阳的强烈要求下，医院为老人做了核酸试纸检查，但在未告知检查结果的情况下，医院还是让老人出院了。
Liu's strong request, the hospital for the elderly to do nucleic acid test paper examination, but did not inform the results of the examination, the hospital discharged the elderly.
出于对医生的信任，和对床位紧缺程度的理解，2月12日，刘阳家人将父亲接回了家。
Out of trust in doctors and an understanding of the extent of the shortage of beds, the family took his father home on February 12.
但老人出院时没有拍CT。
But the old man left the hospital without CT.
这位80多岁高龄的老人，一个人在家隔离，靠邻居送菜自己做饭。
The 80-year-old man is isolated at home and cooks his own food from his neighbors.
几天后，他又出现了发烧的症状。
A few days later, he developed symptoms of fever.
2月18日，子女将其送回之前住院的医院。
On 18 February, the children were returned to the hospital where they had been hospitalized.
老人最新的核酸试纸检测结果显示为——阳性。
The old man's latest test results on nucleic acid test paper showed a positive result.
即使几天后再次入院，家人也不知道出院时的试纸检测结果，院方也没有明确告知家属，老人是复发还是尚未治愈？半个月间，这名老人失去了老伴，自己在入院、转院、出院，回家、再次入院间来回辗转。
Even if he was hospitalized a few days later, his family did not know the results of the paper test at the time of his discharge, nor did the hospital clearly inform his family whether the old man had relapsed or remained uncured.
《财经》记者询问了该医院的医生，医生表示他所在科室的出院情况，是严格按照出院标准执行，并不知晓其他科室的情况。
Caijing asked the hospital's doctor, who said the discharge from his department had been carried out in strict accordance with discharge standards and was unaware of other sections.
几乎在同一时间，另一家医院的医护人员告诉《财经》记者，荆州市第一例确诊病患，也是荆州市首例治愈出院患者，已经再次入院。
At about the same time, another hospital staff told Caijing that the first confirmed case in Jingzhou and the first case to be cured in Jingzhou had been re-hospitalized.
这位病患出院时，曾被当地媒体高调报道：“王某手捧医护人员送过来的鲜花，走出了隔离病房。
"Wang walked out of the isolation ward with flowers sent by paramedics," the patient was released from the hospital with high-profile local media reports.
”曾在武汉市华南海鲜市场从事搬运工作的王某，于1月7日被转诊到荆州市胸外科医院门诊。
Wang, who worked as a stevedore at Wuhan's South China Seafood Market, was referred to the Chest Surgery Hospital in Jingzhou on January 7.
出院前，他连续两次核酸试纸检测阴性。
Before he left hospital, he tested negative for two successive nucleic acid test strips.
就在近期，他重新低调入院，被专门负责诊治重症的荆州市某医院接收。
Just recently, he re-low-key admission, was specialized in the treatment of severe hospital in Jingzhou to receive.
该医院医护人员对《财经》记者表示，出于保护病患隐私，近期医院系统已经无法查看病人病例情况，只知道该病患已经入院，但不了解病程情况，也并不清楚医院对其的研究定性：是二次感染、复发还是尚未治愈。
The hospital staff told Caijing that the hospital system had been unable to check the patient's case in the near future because of the need to protect patients' privacy.
同时未知的，是在王某出院接近两周时间内居家隔离期间，有无传染家人及随行者？毕竟，家庭无法达到医院的隔离环境。
At the same time, it is not known that during the nearly two weeks that Wang was discharged from the hospital, there was no contagion to his family and the people who followed him. After all, families could not reach the isolation of the hospital.
根据《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》，病毒传染方式是：“经呼吸道飞沫和密切接触传播是主要的传播途径。
According to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia (Trial Version 6), the mode of transmission of the virus is as follows: "Transmission via respiratory droplets and close contact is the main mode of transmission.
在相对封闭的环境中长时间暴露于高浓度气溶胶情况下存在经气溶胶传播的可能。
Aerosol transmission is possible when exposed to high concentrations of aerosols for prolonged periods of time in relatively closed environments.
”因此，居家隔离的环境不能做到绝对安全。
As a result, a home-isolated environment is not absolutely safe.
2月18日，武汉新冠医疗救治组组长赵建平在接受《新京报》采访时表示：“有病例出院后再发烧，或再次成为传染源。
"Cases are discharged from the hospital and then have a fever or become a source of infection again," Zhao Jianping, head of Wuhan's Xinguang Medical Treatment Group, told Beijing News on Feb. 18.
”这些普通病患，在经历了治疗的忐忑、出院的欣慰后，又重新回到病房。
These ordinary patients, after experiencing treatment of perturbed, discharged from the hospital, and returned to the ward.
他们没有医生专业视角，对再次入院的具体原因不了解，同时还担心着出院后接触的家人的情况。
They do not have the professional perspective of a doctor and do not know the exact cause of re-admission, and they are concerned about their family members who come into contact with them after discharge.
一位江夏区志愿者告诉《财经》记者，他身边的一位护士，在出院后隔离十四天期间，再次发病住院。
A Jiangxi volunteer told Caijing that a nurse close to him was hospitalized again during a 14-day isolation period.
“她现在病情加重、情绪很不稳定。
"She's getting worse and she's in a very unstable mood.
”同时，正如成都望江锦园小区案例，这些病例虽然是个别情况，但已经引起了周围人的警觉和恐慌。
Meanwhile, as in the case of the Wangjiang Jinyuan district in Chengdu, these cases, although isolated, have caused alarm and panic among those around them.
而一位接近武汉市人民医院的人士告诉《财经》记者，近期，该医院已将医护人员的出院标准提高，核酸试纸检测次数从规定的2次提高到了5次。
A person close to the Wuhan People's Hospital told Caijing that the hospital had recently raised the discharge standards for medical staff and raised the number of nucleic acid test strips from two to five.
医护人员较为特殊，解除隔离后，他们需要即刻准备上岗，因此有着更大的风险。
Medical staff are special, and they are at greater risk when they are released from isolation and need to be prepared for duty immediately.
同时，由于身体劳累，他们抵抗力可能更低。
At the same time, their resistance may be lower due to physical exertion.
普通患者在出院隔离期间，一旦出现症状，他们将和其他病患一样，需再次经过社区安排门诊。
Once symptoms develop during discharge isolation, ordinary patients, like other patients, will have to go through the community again to arrange an out-patient visit.
从武汉某医院出院十天左右的李洋说，她在隔离第八天出现了发热症状，找到所在地汉口某社区。
Li Yang, who was discharged from a hospital in Wuhan about 10 days ago, said she developed fever symptoms on the eighth day of isolation and found a community in Hankou.
社区表示，让她先排队预约CT，但两天后看病问题仍未得到解决。
The community indicated that she had been asked to stand in line to make an appointment for CT, but two days later the issue of access remained unresolved.
2月22日晚间，社区表示先将她安排去酒店统一隔离，但并未将其家人纳入隔离范围。
On the evening of 22 February, the community indicated that she had been placed in a single quarantine at the hotel, but that her family had not been placed in isolation.
随后社区改口，让她第二天去医院复查，暂时不用隔离。
Subsequently, the community changed mouth, let her go to the hospital the next day to review, temporarily not isolated.
此时，李洋的体温37.3度。
At this point, Li Yang's temperature 37.3 degrees.
这些患者再次发病的时间、病程和就诊难度各异，但相同的是，他们至今都不清楚，自己是“复发”还是没有治愈。
The timing, course, and difficulty of resuscitation vary, but it remains unclear to them whether they are "relapsing" or not.
他们都是被计入治愈数字统计中的康复病患，而突发的症状和试纸阳性的结果告诉他们，他们实际上没有被真正彻底治愈。
They were all convalescent patients who were counted in the cure statistics, and the sudden symptoms and positive results told them that they had not actually been completely cured.
阴阳不定的试纸武汉市人民医院刘宝辉医生告诉《财经》记者，临床上再次入院的病例存在，但确诊病例不能被“又确诊”。
Dr. Liu Baohui of Wuhan People's Hospital told Caijing that there were cases of re-admission clinically, but confirmed cases could not be "confirmed again."
对于重复住院的问题，医生和研究人员还在对病毒的了解过程中。
Doctors and researchers are still in the process of understanding the virus for repeated hospitalizations.
首先被科学家和医生们认为概率较低的，是二次传染和复发。
The first things that scientists and doctors think are less likely to be secondary infections and relapses.
病毒学家金冬雁告诉《财经》记者：“康复者马上再感染，这是完全违背病毒学和免疫学基本原理的。
Virus scientist Jin Dongyan told Caijing: "The convalescent person reinfects immediately, this is completely contrary to the virology and immunology basic principle.
人体对抗病毒靠免疫反应，免疫反应产生后再遇到病毒会被激发，不会在短时间内迅速消退。
The human body depends on the immune response to the virus, immune response after the emergence of the virus will be activated, not quickly subside.
至少6个月、一年内不会再受感染。
At least 6 months, no more infections within a year.
”病人经过治疗，通过国家统一标准出院后，即算作统计口径上的治愈出院者。
"After receiving treatment and being discharged from the hospital according to unified state standards, the patients are counted as persons of statistical calibres who have been cured.
《财经》记者获取了荆州市《新冠肺炎出院患者随访工作方案》，患者出院数据统计流程是：隔离区每日报备预备出院患者信息；接着，门诊确认和上报两天后预出院患者的信息，交给市防控指挥部医疗救治组。
After receiving the follow-up plan of patients discharged from the hospital in Jingzhou, Caijing City, the hospital discharge data flow is: daily report in the separation area to prepare for discharge patients; then, the outpatient clinic confirmed and reported two days after the pre-discharge patients to the Municipal Control and Prevention Command medical treatment team.
病患出院前，将由康复科制定每个病人的康复建议。
Rehabilitation advice for each patient will be formulated by the Rehabilitation Unit before discharge from the hospital.
“出院的标准是合理的，也在不断改进，本质不会变。
"The criteria for discharge are reasonable and are constantly improving and will not change in essence.
”刘宝辉说。
"said Liu Baohui.
但统计口径之外，病患出院是否是医学意义上的治愈？目前看来，仍存在极少数标准之内、预料之外的反复情况。
But statistically speaking, is the patient discharged from hospital a medical cure? At present, there are still a very small number of standard, unexpected and repeated circumstances.
金冬雁教授认为，此类出院后再入院的病患，原因可能性最高的，是核酸试纸测不准导致的假阴性。
Professor Jin Dong Yan believes that such patients discharged from the hospital after re-admission, the highest probability of cause is nucleic acid test results caused by false negative.
正常情况下，病毒载量有高低变化，而病毒载量降低后，由于试剂灵敏度及取样等关系没检出，就可能带来假阴性。
Normally, the viral load varies, but when viral load is reduced, false negatives may result from undetected reagent sensitivity and sampling.
武汉大学中南医院医生沈俊也表示，新冠病患出院后再入院，问题主要出现检测手段的不确定上。
Dr. Shen Jun, a doctor at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, also said the problem of re-admission of Xinguan patients after discharge was mainly due to the uncertainty of testing means.
护士操作熟练程度、试纸沾取部位的不同，都可能影响检测结果判断。
The nurse's proficiency and the position of the paper dipping may influence the result of the test.
2月21日，国家卫健委发布了《新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第五版）》，其中在实验室检测技术指南中明确提出，核酸检测结果阴性不能排除新型冠状病毒感染，需要排除可能产生假阴性的因素。
On February 21, the National Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Programme (5th edition)," which clearly stated in the technical guidelines for laboratory tests that negative nucleic acid test results could not exclude new coronavirus infection.
同时，肺部CT的出院标准，大多依赖医生经验判断。
At the same time, pulmonary CT discharge standards, most rely on the experience of doctors to judge.
该标准是：CT显示渗出性病变得到明显改善，但不是病变全吸收。
The standard is: CT showed that exudative lesions were significantly improved, but not all lesions absorbed.
”因为“肺上实质性的损伤可能会留下印记，就像皮肤上的疤。
For "substantial damage to the lungs may leave a mark, like a scar on the skin.
”沈俊表示，比如新冠肺炎患者可能留下的肺部纤维化。
Mr Shen says pulmonary fibrosis, for example, may be left in patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
因此，医生对肺部CT的判断可能也有遗漏之处。
As a result, doctors may have missed out on lung CT as well.
沈俊表示，最优的检查方案可能是查患者体内的抗原是否存在，类似乙肝病毒抗原，但目前对病毒的认知还在扩展中，此类检测手段暂时无法实行。
Shen said the best way to test the presence of antigens in patients, similar to hepatitis B virus antigens, but knowledge of the virus is still expanding and such tests are temporarily unavailable.
金冬雁教授认为，要排除感染病患，应该同时测抗体，如抗体有四倍以上增高才是进入恢复期。
Professor Golden Geese believes that to exclude infected patients, antibodies should be measured at the same time, such as more than four times higher antibody is to enter the recovery period.
所以应该尽快量产抗体试剂做辅助诊断。
Therefore, the antibody reagent should be produced as soon as possible.
在暗在明的病毒病患出院后核酸试纸检测仍为阳性，如果没有新冠肺炎临床特征，是否也可能是四川省新冠肺炎医疗救治专家组回应成都锦园小区病例时所说的“病毒残留”？2月19日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰，在接受央视新闻频道采访时表示，新冠肺炎有可能转成慢性，像流感一样长期在人间存在的病。
If there is no clinical feature of the new crown pneumonia, it may also be what the Sichuan team of experts on medical treatment of Xinguan Pneumonia called "virus residue" in response to the case of Jinyuan District in Chengdu on Feb. 19, the vice-president of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and expert Wang Chen told CCTV News.
对此，金冬雁教授的观点是，“病毒转慢性”和“病毒残留”的说法都不够科学。
Professor Jin Dongyan's view is that the terms "virus to chronic" and "virus residue" are not scientific enough.
“除非病人是免疫缺损，否则这个可能性非常低。
"This possibility is very low unless the patient has an immune deficiency.
”“我个人认为已经建立免疫力的病人，并不是大家需要担心的对象，我们需要关注的是所谓的无症状感染者。
"Personally, I don't think people who have built up immunity are what everyone needs to worry about, we need to focus on the so-called asymptomatic infected.
”刘宝辉说。
"said Liu Baohui.
无症状感染者，即没有外界干预的情况下，自始至终没有症状但携带病毒的感染者。
The asymptomatic infected person, that is, without outside intervention, is always asymptomatic but carries the virus.
因为没有症状，他们可能不会主动去检查。
They may not take the initiative to examine because they have no symptoms.
根据日本近期的一项研究表明，在撤离武汉的日本侨民中，无症状感染者占所有感染者的40%，而根据对德国撤侨的研究显示，离开湖北的126名德国人中，研究人员发现了2名无症状感染者，2名有症状的感染者，无症状感染者占所有感染者的50%。
According to a recent study in Japan, asymptomatic infections accounted for 40% of all infections among Japanese evacuees in Wuhan, while among 126 Germans who left Hubei, researchers found two asymptomatic infections, with asymptomatic infections accounting for 50% of all infections, according to a recent Japanese study.
“虽然该类研究样本量较小，可能存在偏差，但至少说明无症状感染者比例比我们之前认识的要大得多。
"Although the sample size of the study is small and may be biased, it suggests at least that the proportion of asymptomatic infections is much higher than previously known.
”刘宝辉说。
"said Liu Baohui.
近期，河南省人民医院王梅云团队报道了一例河南安阳的病人，其在无症状期感染了5名家人，说明无症状感染者也可以感染他人。
Recently, Wang Mei-yun's team at Henan People's Hospital reported a case of a patient in Anyang, Henan province, who infected five family members during asymptomatic periods, suggesting that asymptomatic infections can also affect other people.
而广东CDC、中山大学、香港大学研究学者在新英格兰医学杂志发表的一篇文章也证实，无症状感染者的咽拭子病毒浓度与有症状的感染者没有差别。
An article published in the New England Journal of Medicine by CDC, Zhongshan University and the University of Hong Kong also confirmed that asymptomatic swabs in asymptomatic infected individuals did not differ from those in symptomatic patients.
以上都说明，无症状感染者很有可能同样具有传染性。
All of this suggests that asymptomatic infections are likely to be equally contagious.
刘宝辉称，这可能造成三个结局：一是病毒不断传播、感染性减弱，进而无法感染他人，病毒消失；二是，病毒有传染性但是对多数人不致病，意味着我们可能将与病毒长期共存；三是，隐性感染后可能再次致病、引发传染。
That could lead to three outcomes: the virus spreading, becoming less infectious and thus unable to infect others and the virus disappearing, Liu said. Second, the virus is contagious but not sickening to most people, meaning that we may live with the virus for a long time.
“这种点状爆发不一定是出院病人导致的，但我个人认为其危险性更高。
"This outbreak need not be caused by a patient leaving the hospital, but I personally think it's more dangerous.
”他说。
'he said.
对此，刘宝辉医生建议，当务之急是需要研究出病毒的传播时间窗，目前武汉市的管控可以有效地避免无症状感染者进一步传播，但无法切断家庭内部的传播。
In this regard, Dr. Liu Baohui suggested that it is imperative to develop a time window for transmission of the virus. At present, the control of Wuhan city can effectively avoid the further spread of asymptomatic infection, but can not cut off the transmission within the family.
因此，要想将无症状感染者的向家庭外的传播链彻底切断，目前的管控至少需要持续2个传染时间窗长度。
Therefore, current controls require at least two transmission window lengths if asymptomatic infections are to be completely cut off from the transmission chain outside the home.
这也意味着，想要打赢这场防疫战，针对无症状感染者、康复患者以及疑似病例等各类人群的隔离诊治措施，亟待进一步完善。
It also means that isolation and treatment of asymptomatic infections, convalescent patients, and suspected cases need to be further improved if the epidemic is to be won.
在成都望江锦园病例再次入院事件得到广泛关注后次日，2月22日晚间，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发布了《新冠肺炎治愈出院患者实施康复隔离的通告》。
On the night of Feb. 22, 2007, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command issued the Notice on the Treatment and Isolation of Patients Discharged with New Crown Pneumonia, the day after the re-admission of a case of Wangjiang Jinyuan in Chengdu received extensive attention.
该通告指出，即日起，出院患者应到指定场所统一实施14天的免费康复隔离和医学观察。
The circular states that from now on, patients discharged from the hospital should go to designated places to implement 14 days of free rehabilitation isolation and medical observation.
观察期满，身体状况符合条件的将解除隔离。
At the end of the observation period, those eligible will be released from isolation.
截至2月22日24时，武汉市累计确诊病例46201例，累计治愈出院病例8171例，也就意味着，针对这数以千计的出院人群的出院后跟踪防守战役即将向纵深展开。
As of 2400 hours on February 22, a cumulative total of 46,201 cases had been diagnosed and 8,171 cases had been cured in Wuhan, meaning that the post-discharge follow-up defence campaign against thousands of discharged people was about to spread deep.
武汉市以外，仅湖北省其他地区，截至2月22日24时，还10265例确诊病例仍在医院治疗，他们出院后的隔离条件如何落实，隔离意识教育能否到位，仍有待相关工作的加强。
As of 2400 hours on February 22, 10,265 confirmed cases were still being treated in hospitals. How to implement the isolation conditions after their discharge from hospital and whether the education on isolation consciousness can be put in place still needs to be strengthened.
极少数出院但并不严格等同于治愈的病例提醒人们，新冠病毒的复杂性仍待我们进一步了解。
The small number of cases discharged, but not strictly equivalent to cure, is a reminder that the complexity of the new crown virus remains to be understood.
（实习生马可欣对本文亦有贡献。
(Intern Markheen also contributed to this article.
应采访对象要求，本文中刘阳、李洋为化名）【版权声明】本文由《晚点LatePost》授权腾讯新闻独家发布，未经腾讯公司许可，不得转载。
At the request of the interviewee, Liu Yang and Li Yang are pseudonyms in this article. This article is published exclusively by Tencent News under the authority of Late LatePost and cannot be reproduced without permission from Tencent.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠病患会否“复发”？极少数出院者核酸检测疑为假阴性。
Will there be "relapse" in new crown patients? Very few discharged patients are suspected to have false negative nucleic acid tests.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠病患会否“复发”？极少数出院者核酸检测疑为假阴性";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did Newcrown patients "relapse"? Very few discharged patients had nucleic acid tests that suspected false negative & quot;;;;
var msg_desc = "这些患者再次发病的时间、病程和就诊难度各异，但他们至今不清楚，自己是“复发”还是没有被治愈。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
他们曾被计入治愈出院的统计病例中，而突发的症状和重新检测结果意味着，他们实际上没有被彻底治愈";。
They were counted among the cases that were cured and discharged, and the sudden symptoms and re-examination meant that they were not, in fact, fully cured or quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
