封——锁。
seal - lock.
杨依依。
Yang Yi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
本文系读者投稿。
This article is a reader contribution.
来稿请投：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn楼下的一对夫妻在打羽毛球，球网接触球发出的“嘣嘣”声在空气中跳动，一下一下，听得人眉毛也跟着抖；隔壁的邻居又在弹钢琴，钢琴声不成调，弹得缓慢又迟疑，像午后稀疏的阳光往墙下移（他晚上还要弹一次）；偶尔看到骑自行车的人从小巷子那头过来，总要特别留意他们的嘴部——果然戴着各式的口罩（今天的这位女士戴了一个黑色棉质的，像个三缄其口的革命者，踩着脚踏板有些吃力但不失决绝地一径溜了过去）。
A couple below zhuangao @ lifeek.com.cn was playing badminton, and the "boom" of the ball was beating in the air and shaking one's eyebrows; the next-door neighbor was playing the piano again, slowly and hesitatingly, moving slowly and hesitatingly down the alley like a mute in the afternoon.
这是个阴天。
It's a cloudy day.
南方的天气像疯女人，明明昨天还阳光明媚仿佛上帝的恩赐，过一天便凄风苦雨，雨滴如同怨妇的眼泪稀稀拉拉下个不停；再过一日是半天晴朗半天阴沉，在下午四点左右蓦地回光返照，来了几束阳光，把这在瞌睡中的老城区照耀得犹如欧洲小镇般典雅又沉静。
The weather in the south was like a mad woman, and yesterday it was as sunny as a gift from God, and after a day it rained and rained like a bitter woman's tears; another day was a half-day of sunshine and a half-day of gloom, and a few gleams of sunshine burst forth, shining the sleepy old city as quietly as a European town.
这一个月的日子仿佛被偷来的一样，极不真实。
The days of the month seemed as unreal as stolen.
一只灰鸽子总是在对面人家的雨棚上窸窸窣窣地走走停停，忽然就不见了。
A gray pigeon always rustled across the shed, and suddenly disappeared.
大家因为新冠肺炎被迫窝在家里，关心着每天的数据，又害怕自己或身边的人成为数据。
People are forced to stay at home with pneumonia, concerned about the daily data, and afraid of themselves or the people around them become data.
数十年后，当这一段成为历史，回头望去，我们自己也是亲历者和缔造者。
Decades later, as this passage becomes history, we ourselves, in retrospect, are the witnesses and creators.
一部现实版的灾难大片就近上演，谁说人生不是如梦似幻呢？李风 摄77年前的1943年，张爱玲发表了一部叫《封锁》的短篇小说，大约7800个字。
Who says life is not a fantasy? 77 years ago in 1943, Zhang Ailing published a short story called The Blockade, with about 7,800 words.
该小说的背景发生在日据时代下，因为日军搜查，一辆正在行驶的电车停运了——“整个的上海打了个盹，做了个不近情理的梦”（摘自《封锁》），一对男女在电车上因封锁开始、又因封锁解除而结束的一段艳遇。
The background to the novel occurred in Japanese times, when a traveling trolley car was stopped during a Japanese search - "the whole of Shanghai had a nap and had an unreasonable dream" (excerpt from "The Blockade"), a man and a woman on a trolley car ended when the blockade was lifted.
《封锁》中的男主角是结了婚的。
The main character in The Blockade is married.
不知为何，几乎所有已婚男人都要向不是老婆的异性倾诉自己的“婚姻之苦”。
Almost all married men somehow confide in the opposite sex who are not their wives.
《封锁》中的这个男人也不例外，他所倾诉的对象，是一位受过大学教育的单身女性，后者处于生命夹缝中模棱两可的状态——不甘于草草嫁于寒酸人家，但嫁入豪门一时又逮不住机会。
The man in The Blockade is no exception, talking about a single, college-educated woman who is in a quagmire in her life - not content to marry in a shabby house, but unable to get married into a rich family.
明显，她的条件不足以遭遇一场传奇的爱情，然而知识又让她对自我有了过高的认知。
Obviously, her condition is not enough to encounter a legendary love, but knowledge has given her too high a sense of self.
前后几个钟头的封锁时间，两人都被命运轻轻撞了一下。
A few hours before and after the blockade, the two were gently hit by fate.
封锁结束，一切恢复如初，吹起几褶浪花的水面重归平静。
The blockade is over, everything is back to normal, and the pleated waters are calm again.
也不知他俩是如何揩干净脸上的尴尬，重新又被生活这片大海给吞没的。
I don't know how they wiped the embarrassment on their faces and were swallowed up again by the sea of life.
这样的“封锁”，李安2007年的电影《色戒》中也有类似表现，我们可以理解为按照张爱玲原著把它给影像化了：王佳芝在放走易先生之后，惶惶然走出咖啡馆，夕阳打在她身上，金灿灿得却不晃眼，反而有一种繁华落尽见平淡的温馨，一种儿时走在放学回家路上要吃晚饭的期待。
Such a "blockade," Lee's 2007 film "Lust, Caution," can be understood as the original Zhang Ailing image of it: after the release of Mr. Yi, Wang Jia-zhi walked out of the cafe, the sun hit her body, but not dazzling, there is a prosperous insipid warmth, a childhood walk home from school to dinner.
《色戒》剧照王佳芝叫上一辆黄包车去福开森路。
"Lust, Caution" pictured Wang Jiazhi calling a rickshaw to Fukui Sen Road.
全片中就这位拉车小哥笑得最灿烂，迎着夕阳，蹬起车来了脚底生风，插在把手边的一只风车转得快活。
The whole film on the pull car brother smiled the most brilliant, facing the sunset, pedal to the bottom of the wind, inserted in the hand of a windmill turned happy.
此情此景，使小哥不由地回过头来问王佳芝：回家啊！？还没到静安寺，就听见有人吹哨子——看来出状况了，街道要封锁了。
So the little brother could not help but turn back and ask Wang Jiazhi: Go home! Before he reached the Jing'an Temple, someone blew a whistle. It looked like something was going wrong. The streets were closed.
小说原文到这就没往下再写，笔锋一转挪到易太太的麻将桌上去了。
The text of the novel to this did not write down again, the pen front a turn to Mrs. Yi's mahjong table.
可在电影中，李安在此加了一场戏，一个老妈子操着上海话朝封路警察叫道：“晨光不早了，我要回去烧饭呀！”说罢，引来周遭市民一片哄笑。
But in the film, Ang Lee here added a play, an old woman in Shanghainese towards the closure of the police cried: "The morning light is late, I will go back to cook ah!" Said the people around the roar with laughter.
此时，死亡近在王佳芝的耳边向她低声细语，或者说，死神像一团黑色的阴影趴在她的背后。
At this time, the death in Wang Jiazhi's ear whispered to her, or the god of death a dark shadow on her back.
她摸着缝在衣领里的那颗毒药，犹疑了片刻，手上粉色的“鸽子蛋”移入镜头。
She felt the poison sewn into her collar and hesitated for a moment as the pink dove egg moved into the camera.
不知怎么回事，王佳芝对着哄笑的人群也笑了一下。
Somehow, Wang Jiazhi smiled back at the laughing crowd.
日本导演大岛渚拍于1976年的电影《感官世界》，取材于1936年真实的“阿部定”事件。
Oshima, the Japanese director, filmed the 1976 film Sensational World, based on the 1936 real "Abe" story.
比1944年更早的1936年——日本“二.二六”兵变失败，东亚战争转为太平洋战争，整个日本社会完全被军国主义所操控。
In 1936, before 1944, when Japan's "II-26" mutiny failed, the war in East Asia turned into the Pacific War, and the entire Japanese society was dominated by militarism.
同年12月国内发生“西安事变”。
The "Xi'an Incident" took place in December that year.
接下来1937年“七七卢沟桥”事变后，日本帝国主义爆发了全面的侵华战争。
Then in 1937, after the incident of the Seven-Year-Long-Gully Bridge, Japanese imperialism broke out an all-out war of aggression against China.
《感官世界》中的大部分场景都在室内，也是个封闭空间，突然在后半段插入一个镜头，像有人揭开了整个大幕的一角：男主角吉藏，形销骨立地站在路边，迟疑地看着一队杀气腾腾的军人整装出发。
Most of the scene in Sensational World is indoors, in a closed space, when suddenly a shot is inserted into the back of the scene, as if someone had uncovered a corner of the whole scene: the hero, Yoshizo, stands on the curb and watches hesitantly as a line of murderous soldiers prepares to leave.
看似漫不经心的一个片段，却是导演交代影片主旨的有意安排。
What seems to be a casual fragment is a deliberate arrangement by the director to explain the main idea of the film.
之前男女主角在室内温被里颠鸾倒凤，殊不知外面一片肃杀严酷，死亡就在枕边。
Before male and female protagonist in indoor temperature was upset and tragic, just do not know outside a brutal, death on the pillow.
1936年的日本正是在这样的情境下，日益逼近的战争如黑云压城。
It was in this context that Japan in 1936 was confronted with a looming war.
“二二六”之后的东京一直处于戒严之中，终于在五月份爆出了“阿部定”事件（详细内容可自行搜索之）。
Tokyo has been under curfew since February 26, culminating in the "Abe" incident in May (details are searchable).
它的诡异和奇情让日本社会在战前进行了一次彻底的全民狂欢，街头巷尾都在争相讨论，将此作为茶余饭后的谈资——阿部定被捕之后的那张照片尤其令世人惊异，她笑靥如花，不像个刚杀了情郎的凶手，反而是一个依旧在与情郎如胶似漆的女人。
Its bizarre and bizarre nature led Japanese society to engage in an all-out national orgy before the war, with the streets and alleys swirling over it as a conversation item after dinner.
《感官世界》剧照时间回到当下，我妈一边做着家务，一边念叨着这小区何时能够解禁。
Back in the moment, while doing housework, my mother talked about when the neighborhood would be released.
现在每户人家两天只能出去一人。
Now only one person can go out in two days.
她明早要出门去买菜。
She is going out to buy some food tomorrow morning.
而我所住小区东门的那家肯德基，被朋友笑称为整个南昌城唯一开门的店。
And I live in the East Gate of the KFC, friends laugh that the whole Nanchang City is the only open shop.
然而就在我嚷着说要爬墙出去买炸鸡的当口，朋友发微信来和我说：她刚下班开车路过时发现，这之前屹立不倒的“英雄之店”，也关门了。
But just as I was yelling about climbing a wall to buy fried chicken, a friend wrote to me and said, She just drove by after work and realized that this store of heroes, which had stood firm before, had also closed.
我不由得想起前几个礼拜小区还没封锁前的那次放风，我和我妈戴着口罩走在青山湖边，路边偶尔走过一两个行人，其中有一个穿夹克的中年男性，竟然没戴口罩，他拿着一把尺子，站在树下，远远看去以为他在量树叶（可能他正是在做这件事）。
I couldn't help thinking of the last few weeks when my mother and I were walking by the Green Mountain lake wearing a mask, and one or two passers-by, including a middle-aged man in a jacket who was not wearing a mask. He stood under a tree with a ruler and looked far away to think he was measuring the leaves.
李风 摄我还在回味今早做的那个梦，梦中一切事物的边缘都像浸了水，模糊不清，还泛着一股令人丧气的灰色，具体情节早已无法确认，唯有那种“令人丧气的灰色”演化出的情绪始终在我脑海中盘旋。
I still think about the dream I had this morning, where everything in my dream seemed to be immersed in water, blurred, and there was a depressing grey, the details of which could no longer be confirmed, and only the "depressing grey" evoking in my mind.
一个问题时时叩问着我：究竟梦里的那个世界是真实的？还是醒来后这个世界是真实的？我一天有差不多十个小时在睡觉，这问题不得不困扰我。
A question kept poking at me: Is the world in the dream real, or is it real when I wake up? I sleep almost ten hours a day, and that has to bother me.
与此同时，我嘴里始终弥漫着一股钝钝的味道，好像含了一块无形的金属，让人注意力实在无法集中，我姑且也理解为这是那股“令人丧气的灰色”的味觉化吧。
At the same time, there was a dull dull taste in my mouth, as if it contained an invisible metal, and it was hard to concentrate, and I understood it as a "depressing grey" taste.
隔壁的钢琴声还是东倒西歪的，像钢琴键被拆了下来，在桌子上被丢得乱七八糟。
The piano next door was still croaking, like a piano key pulled down and thrown into a mess on the table.
我想，这人弹起钢琴来，像是在跟琴过不去，大概弹琴者心里有一团乱麻，这样和钢琴纠结在一起，明显更乱了。
I think the man played the piano as if he had a problem with it, and the entanglement of the violinist was clearly compounded by the entanglement of the piano.
李风 摄外面越来越黑了，小巷子里唯一的路灯亮了起来，它像歪戴着一顶军帽，射出的光线发蓝，在黑夜里显得异常锋利。
It was getting darker and darker outside, and the only road-light in the alley came on. It was like wearing a military hat, and the light was blue and sharp in the dark.
每一个从灯下路过的人，都像是舞台上的演员，只是现在巷子里早已无人经过。
Everyone passing under the lamp is like an actor on the stage, but now no one has passed in the alley.
隔壁的钢琴声，突然加重了。
The sound of the piano next door suddenly increased.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道本文为读者投稿。
Please stamp [5prEutEri] Lifestyle Weekly New Crown Pneumonia series This article is a contribution to the readers.
如果你对社会热点话题有敏锐的感知力与丰富的写作经验，欢迎自荐为《三联生活周刊》微信公号自由撰稿人；如果你在艺术时尚、影评娱评、美食体育、旅游地理等任一领域有所专攻，欢迎随时给《三联生活周刊》微信投稿。
If you have a keen sense of hot topics and rich writing experience, you are welcome to join us as a freelance writer for the magazine Lifestyle News. If you specialize in any field, such as art fashion, film and entertainment, food and sports, travel geography, etc., please feel free to contribute to the newsletter of Three Lives Weekly.
撰稿人申请与原创投稿皆发至：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn，此邮箱长期开放。
Writer applications and original contributions are sent to: zhuangao @ lifeek.com.cn, which is open on a permanent basis.
投稿需从未在任何公开平台发表过。
Contributions must never have been published on any public platform.
一经投稿，即默认由《三联生活周刊》编辑修改及发送。
Once submitted, it will be modified and sent by the editor of Triple Life Weekly by default.
20天内未收到回复可另投他处。
If no reply is received within 20 days, it may be sent elsewhere.
来稿请写明联系方式，标题注明“自荐撰稿人”或“投稿+稿件领域”。
Please specify the contact information of the manuscript. The title indicates "Contributor" or "Input + Input Area".
稿件字数2000~3000字为佳。
Words like 2000 ~ 3000 words are better.
一经采用，我们将提供有竞争力的稿酬。
Once adopted, we will offer competitive rewards.
期待你的文字。
Looking forward to your words.
⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
The copyright of the article belongs to Lifestyle Magazine. Welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
扫码下单新冠特刊「武汉会战」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Sweep the code under the new crown special issue "Wuhan Conference War" click to read the original text, into the weekly bookstore, purchase the New Crown Pneumonia special issue portfolio.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封——锁。
seal - lock.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封——锁";。
var msg _ title = & quot; sealed - lock & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "这一个月的日子仿佛被偷来的一样，极不真实。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the month seemed as if it had been stolen, utterly untrue.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
