复工不足3万人，郑州富士康入职奖升至7000元。
Return to work less than 30,000 people, Zhengzhou Foxconn entry award rose to 7000 yuan.
徐杰。
Xu Jie.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫文：财联社 徐杰“ 为加大复工力度，郑州富士康再次增加奖励，新入职员工在满足相关条件后可获现金7000元，目前郑州富士康在厂员工已突破2万人，并且不断有新人面试，同时河南省也在动员员工返工。
Foxconn in Zhengzhou will receive a cash bonus of 7,000 yuan after meeting the relevant conditions. At present, Foxconn in Zhengzhou has more than 20,000 employees in the factory and has been interviewed by new employees, while Henan Province is mobilizing its staff to rework.
”为加大复工力度，郑州富士康再次增加奖励，新入职员工在满足相关条件后可获现金7000元。
Foxconn has increased incentives for new hires to pay 7,000 yuan in cash after meeting the necessary conditions to resume work.
根据劳务派遣公司提供的消息，经过近期全方位招聘，目前郑州富士康在厂员工已突破2万人，并且不断有新人面试。
According to the labor dispatch company, after the recent all-round recruitment, Zhengzhou Foxconn has more than 20, 000 employees in the factory, and there are new interviews.
《科创板日报》记者采访还获悉，河南各级人社部门也开始动员组织当地员工返厂。
"Science Chuangban Daily" reporters also learned that Henan departments at all levels have also begun to mobilize local staff to return to the factory.
复工人数不足3万，宿舍附近商铺开门营业2月22日上午，郑州航空港区天气尚好，当地居民畅先生戴好口罩、做好防护措施后外出，当路过富士康富鑫宿舍区时发现，三天前还闭门停业的商铺已经开门营业，商铺前的马路边停满了轿车，虽然商铺门前不算热闹，但偶尔会有人进出。
When Mr. Chang, a resident of Zhengzhou airport, went out in the morning of February 22, wearing masks and taking protective measures, he found that shops that had been closed only three days before were open for business and that the roadside in front of the shop was full of cars.
商铺后即是郑州富士康富鑫宿舍区，拍摄时间2月21日“招募中心前大概有二十多人，这些人没排队。
After the shop is Zhengzhou Foxconn Fuxin dormitory area, February 21 shooting time: "Before the recruitment center about 20 people, these people did not queue.
”畅先生告诉《科创板日报》记者，当他开车到郑州富士康东门时，东门旁边停满了电动二轮车，虽然接近中午，但东门口只有个别工人进出，东门口对面就是新员工招募中。
When he drove to the east gate of Foxconn, Zhengzhou, Mr. Chang told the paper that electric two-wheelers were parked beside the east gate.
与东门口一样，郑州富士康北门人数也很少。
Like the east gate, the north gate of Zhengzhou Foxconn has a small number of people.
畅先生介绍，正常情况下北门、东门到中午会有大量工人进出，因为有工人会结伴在外面吃饭，也有工人出来拿外卖，现在因为疫情防控需要，所有工人只能在厂区内的餐厅吃饭。
Under normal circumstances, Mr. Chang said, there would be large numbers of workers coming in and out of the north gate and east gate until noon, because workers would eat out in groups and workers would come out for take-out.
郑州富士康北门自郑州16日通告发布后，因厂区所在地被划定为疫情轻微区域，郑州富士康一面通知老员工返厂、一面招募新员工入职，以提升复工率。
Zhengzhou Foxconn North Gate since Zhengzhou notice issued on the 16, because the factory site was classified as a mild epidemic area, Zhengzhou Foxconn informed the old workers to return to the factory, while recruiting new staff to increase the rate of return to work.
2月19日，郑州发布20号通告，明确员工返岗复工要求，客观上为郑州富士康复工创造条件。
On February 19, Zhengzhou issued Circular No. 20, clarifying the requirements for returning to work and objectively creating conditions for the resumption of work by Foxconn in Zhengzhou.
2月22日下午，某家为郑州富士康招工的劳务派遣公司工作人员向《科创板日报》记者透露，像他们一样的为郑州富士康服务的劳务派遣公司有好多家，从公司驻厂经理反馈的情况看，目前郑州富士康在岗人数估计在2万人至3万人之间，而且每天都有新人入职。
On the afternoon of Feb. 22, a staff member of a labor dispatch company recruiting for Foxconn in Zhengzhou told SciDev.Net that there are many labor dispatch companies like them serving Zhengzhou Foxconn. According to the feedback from the company's factory managers, the number of workers at Foxconn in Zhengzhou is estimated to be between 20,000 and 30,000.
公开消息显示，富士康此前希望2月底恢复中国大陆50%产能、3月恢复80%产能，眼下距离2月底只有一周，留给郑州富士康的时间不多了。
Foxconn, which had hoped to restore 50 per cent of capacity in mainland China by the end of February and 80 per cent in March, is only a week from the end of February, according to public sources.
招工奖励升至7000元，河南人社系统开始行动《科创板日报》记者调查发现，提升奖励幅度叠加当地政府动员，是近期郑州富士康和河南省地方政府在各自能力范围内的行动。
Incentive to 7000 yuan, Henan people's social system began to action "Science Founder Daily" reporters found that the increase in reward scale superimposed local government mobilization, is the recent Zhengzhou Foxconn and Henan Province local governments within their respective capabilities.
其实在郑州16号通告发布当天，郑州富士康就发出返岗激励通知，符合要求的员工可获得3000元，此后又将奖励提升至5250元。
In fact, on the day Zhengzhou Notice 16 was issued, Foxconn in Zhengzhou issued a notice to encourage employees to return to work.
2月22日，除前文所述公司外的另一家劳务派遣公司工作人员透露，郑州富士康最新奖励政策：分两次向新员工返费7000元，第一次发放要求是打卡满35天、且在职超过60天发放3000元，剩下4000元在打卡满55天、且在职超过90天时发放。
On February 22, Foxconn in Zhengzhou paid 7,000 yuan back to new employees in two installments. The first payment was due for 35 days and 3,000 yuan for more than 60 days, leaving 4,000 yuan after 55 days and more than 90 days of service.
据了解，有大量招工需求的甲方公司会委派劳务派遣公司招工，劳务派遣公司完成后，甲方公司将按人计算给劳务派遣公司一笔奖励，有些劳务派遣公司为吸引工人应聘，会将该笔奖励的按比例分给工人，而分给工人的这部分奖励就称为返费。
It is understood that a company with a large demand for labor service will appoint a labor dispatch company to recruit workers. After the completion of the labor dispatch company, Party A will give a reward to the labor dispatch company on a per-person basis.
如此看来，郑州富士康提升奖励政策，会提升劳务派遣公司招工积极性。
So, Zhengzhou Foxconn to promote the incentive policy, will enhance labor dispatch companies to recruit.
《科创板日报》记者拿到的复工方案显示，郑州富士康针对不同区域的应聘员工有相应要求，分为高、一般、低三个等级，不同等级区域的应聘员工需要提供居家隔离14天证明、承诺书、健康证明等资料。
According to the program, Zhengzhou Foxconn has requirements for candidates from different regions, including high, average and low grades. Candidates from different grades are required to provide 14-day proof of isolation, letter of commitment, health certificate, etc.
图为复工方案及健康证明模板除了劳务派遣公司，河南省人社系统通过动员各地务工人员、组织包车送达等方式为郑州富士康输送劳动力。
In addition to labor dispatch companies, the Henan Human Society System provides labor for Foxconn in Zhengzhou by mobilizing local workers and organizing the delivery of charters.
《科创板日报》记者获悉，从2月17日开始至今，河南省内各地向郑州富士康运送3481名工人：截至2月18日，登封市累计运送316人返岗；截至2月20日，中牟县已向郑州富士康输送2173人；2月21日，濮阳市护送803人集体返岗，平顶山市运送189人。
Since February 17, 3,481 workers have been transported to Foxconn in Henan Province since Feb. 17, according to the daily. As of February 18, the city of Dengfeng had transported 316 workers to Foxconn, Zhengzhou.
接近河南省人社厅的当地人士透露，河南省内人社部门都在行动，组织各地务工人员返岗郑州富士康，返岗人数还在汇总中，而且该行动可能会持续，预计到2月底。
Local people close to Henan's provincial bureau say the ministry is organizing workers to return to Foxconn, Zhengzhou, and the number of such workers is still being compiled, and the operation is likely to continue until the end of February.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
复工不足3万人，郑州富士康入职奖升至7000元。
Return to work less than 30,000 people, Zhengzhou Foxconn entry award rose to 7000 yuan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "复工不足3万人，郑州富士康入职奖升至7000元";。
var msg _ title = & quot; returned to work at least 30,000; and Zhengzhou Foxconn's entry award rose to Rmb7,000;;
var msg_desc = "为加大复工力度，郑州富士康再次增加奖励，新入职员工在满足相关条件后可获现金7000元，目前郑州富士康在厂员工已突破2万人，并且不断有新人面试，同时河南省也在动员员工返工。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Foxconn, Zhengzhou, has once again increased its incentives to reinstate workers to $7,000 after meeting the relevant conditions. Foxconn in Zhengzhou has more than 20,000 employees at its plant, and has had interviews with new employees, and is mobilizing employees to return to work.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
