四川、黑龙江两省监狱进入战时管理状态。
Sichuan, Heilongjiang two provincial prisons into wartime management.
界面中国报道。
Interface China Report.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国近日，3省5个监狱被曝发生罪犯感染疫情之后，四川、黑龙江两省宣布监狱进入战时管理状态。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Five prisons in three provinces have been exposed as being under wartime administration in Sichuan and Heilongjiang provinces after the outbreak of a criminal epidemic, local media reported on Monday.
据四川省司法厅微信公号消息，2月22日，针对下一步疫情防控工作，司法厅明确要求，全省监狱戒毒所实行战时管理，执行战时纪律，深刻认识监所防疫的政治性、特殊性，严防死守，全力确保人员安全、防线牢固。
On Feb. 22, in response to the next step in prevention and control of the epidemic, the Ministry of Justice explicitly requested that war-time management be carried out in provincial prisons, that wartime discipline be enforced, that the political and special nature of the epidemic prevention in prisons be deeply understood, and that all efforts be made to ensure the safety and security of personnel.
坚决杜绝监所疫情管理漏洞，全力防止疫情向监所蔓延。
We will resolutely put an end to loopholes in the management of prisons and spare no effort to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
消息称，新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，四川省司法厅高度重视疫情防控特别是监所疫情防控，迅速实施监所全封闭管理，实行“四个一律”：对新接收罪犯、戒毒人员以及离监探亲返监人员一律隔离，对进入监狱戒毒场所人员一律测量体温并佩戴口罩，对体温过高或其他疑似人员一律禁止进入并按规定处置，对进入监所的车辆、物资一律检测消毒；同时，实施“六个暂停”：暂停一切外来人员进入监管区，包括非监管区值班执勤民警也不得进入监管区，暂停面对面会见探视，暂停办理罪犯戒毒人员转押，暂停提审、亲情帮教和警示教育，暂停服刑人员、戒毒人员集体就餐；暂停监所内一切大型活动。
Since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the Sichuan Provincial Justice Bureau has attached great importance to disease prevention and control, particularly in prisons, promptly implemented the "four uniform" rule: no face-to-face visits and visits, no face-to-face visits and visits, no transfer, temporary suspension of arraignment, family support and warning.
此前2月21日，四川省司法厅组织召开的全省监狱戒毒系统疫情防控调度会暨厅防控领导小组第十三次会议强调，立即封存1月22日以来所有监所的监控视频，组织监狱、戒毒所开展交叉检查，凡是检查出问题的，对相关单位和相关责任人一律严肃处理。
On February 21, the 13th meeting of the Leading Group for Prevention and Control of Drug Abuse Prevention and Control System in Prisons in Sichuan Province, organized by the Sichuan Provincial Justice Bureau, emphasized the immediate blocking of surveillance videos in all prisons since 22 January and the organization of cross-checks in prisons and drug rehabilitation centres.
另据《黑龙江日报》消息，记者从黑龙江省司法厅获悉，22日起全省监狱戒毒场所进入战时管理状态，坚决堵住疫情防控漏洞，确保“零输入、零感染、零炒作”目标。
According to Heilongjiang Daily, reporters from the Heilongjiang Province Department of Justice learned that from 22 to the province's prison detoxification sites into wartime management, resolutely plug the disease prevention and control loopholes, to ensure "zero input, zero infection, zero speculation."
据介绍，黑龙江省司法厅发布疫情防控战时管理，要求关住门、守住人、报情况、勤洗消、严防护、早检测、分散管、联防控、严追责。
Heilongjiang Province, the Department of Justice issued the wartime management of the epidemic prevention and control, requiring the closure of doors, guarding, reporting, frequent decontamination, strict protection, early detection, decentralization, control, strict accountability.
在2月21日国务院联防联控机制举行的新闻发布会上，司法部监狱管理局负责人何平称，对监狱罪犯感染疫情的情况，内疚、沉重。
At a press conference held on February 21 by the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, Ho Ping, the head of the prison administration at the Ministry of Justice, said there was a guilty conscience about the epidemic among prison inmates.
截至2月20日24时，全国共有湖北、山东、浙江3个省，共5个监狱发生罪犯感染疫情，全是输入型病例，新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，监狱系统确诊患者一律送诊治疗。
As of 2400 hours on February 20, all of China's five prisons in Hubei, Shandong and Zhejiang provinces had contracted epidemic diseases, all of which were imported cases. Since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, all patients diagnosed by the prison system have been referred for treatment.
2月22日，中共中央政治局委员、中央政法委书记郭声琨在突击检查监管场所疫情防控工作时强调，要深刻吸取个别监管场所发生疫情的教训，坚决杜绝麻痹松懈和侥幸心理，采取非常之举、拿出战时之策，遏制疫情扩散。
On February 22, Guo Shenkun, a member of the Politburo Political Bureau and secretary of the Central Political and Legal Committee, stressed the need to draw lessons from the outbreak of diseases in individual detention facilities, resolutely put an end to paralysis and improve chances, and take extraordinary measures to curb the spread of the disease.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
四川、黑龙江两省监狱进入战时管理状态。
Sichuan, Heilongjiang two provincial prisons into wartime management.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "四川、黑龙江两省监狱进入战时管理状态";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "在湖北、山东、浙江的三所监狱发生新冠肺炎疫情后，四川、黑龙江宣布两省监狱进入战时管理状态。
Sichuan and Heilongjiang declared war-time prison management after AT & G's three prisons in Hubei, Shandong and Zhejiang provinces.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
