让韩国亮起疫情红灯的，为何是“新天地教会”？。
Let South Korea light up the red light, why is "Xintiandi Church"?
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
韩国大邱市，工作人员正在消毒，其身后建筑张贴着新天地教会的宣传广告。
Workers in Daegu, South Korea, are disinfecting their buildings behind which posters from Xintiandi Church have been posted.
图片来源：Yonhap记者：潘金花“这场疾病，出自恶魔之手，意图扼杀‘新天地’的飞速壮大。
Source: Yonhap Journalist: Pan Jinhua, "This disease, from the hands of demons, intended to kill the rapid growth of the 'new world'.
正如约伯所经受的试炼那样，它是想摧毁我们的进步。
As Job went through the trials, it was to destroy our progress.
”就在韩国卫生防疫部门通报大邱市“新天地教会”内发生新冠病毒“超级传播事件”后不久，该教会的上万信众便通过一个内部应用程序，收到了会长李万熙发来的这句鼓励语。
Shortly after South Korea's anti-epidemic agency informed Daegu's Xintiandi Church of a "super-transmission" of the new crown virus, tens of thousands of people in the church received a message of encouragement from President Lee Wanxi through an internal application.
但他们或许没想到，这场“试炼”，竟来得如此凶猛。
But they may not think, this "trial", unexpectedly come so fierce.
从2月19日至22日，韩国报告的新冠肺炎确诊病例总数已连续三天翻番，从51人激增至433人，是原来的8倍。
From 19 to 22 February, the total number of confirmed cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia in South Korea doubled for three consecutive days, from 51 to 433, an eightfold increase.
23日，韩国再新增169例病例，累计确诊达602例，死亡增至5例。
On February 23, 169 new cases were reported, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 602 and the number of deaths to 5.
在这之中，有多达329人与新天地大邱教会有关，比例高达54.7%。
Of these, as many as 329, or 54.7 per cent, are associated with the Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
在第一名被发现感染的信徒曾前往的庆尚北道清道郡，一家名为大南的医院也有至少111人感染，不仅包括多名医护人员，甚至还涉及3例死亡。
A hospital in Grand Nan, Ching Tao county in the northern province of Gyeongshan, where the first infected devotee was found, also infected at least 111 people, including medical staff, and even three deaths.
更令人担忧的是，从20日开始，以新天地教会为原点，韩国的疫情正朝着失控的方向发展，新增的病例不再局限于大邱和庆北地区，而是朝着庆南、忠北、光州、首尔、釜山、京畿、世宗、蔚山、江原道等地扩散开来，与该教会有关的病例现已覆盖韩国过半行政区，就连军队也未能幸免。
More worryingly, starting on the 20th, the epidemic in South Korea is moving out of control, with new cases no longer confined to Daegu and Gyeongbun, but spreading to Gyeongnam, Chongnam, Gyeongju, Seoul, Busan, Kinki, Shizhong, Ulsan, and Kangwon-Do. Even the army has not been spared.
韩国已于23日将新冠疫情预警上调至最高级别：“严重”。
South Korea on the 23rd of the new crown epidemic alert to the highest level: "serious."
但到现在，还没有人知道疫情是如何在新天地教会开始的，首先被发现感染的信徒、即韩国“第31号病例”并没有海外旅行的经历。
But until now, no one knows how the outbreak began in the Church of Xintiandi, where the infected devotee, South Korea's Case No. 31, was first found to have no overseas travel experience.
不过，从这位61岁韩国女性的行动轨迹以及新天地教会本身，我们或许能为这几日的“失控”找到一点答案。
But with the 61-year-old Korean woman's track record and that of the Church itself, we may be able to find some answers to these days of "runaway control."
“独特”的礼拜据界面新闻此前报道，第31号病例在确诊前，曾四次在大邱参加新天地教会的礼拜活动，后两次前往教堂时，她已出现发冷、咽喉痛等症状，而这两次和她一同在教堂参加礼拜活动的共有1001人。
"Unique" worship The Interface News previously reported that case No. 31 had attended church services in Taegu on four occasions before her diagnosis. The last two trips to church showed chills, sore throats and other symptoms, and 1,001 people attended church services with her.
从新天地教会举行礼拜活动的现场照片中可以看到，上百名信众密密麻麻地跪坐在一个相对密闭的空间里，人与人之间不过两三个拳头的距离。
Hundreds of believers knelt down in a relatively closed space, barely two or three fists apart, as can be seen in a live photograph of a church service in Xintiandi Church.
图为新天地教会举行的礼拜活动，人员十分密集。
The picture shows a church service held in Xintiandi Church with a very intensive staff.
来源：读者提供给《韩国日报》的照片实际上，被称为“教堂”的空间位于大邱市一幢八层的建筑里。
Source: Photo taken by readers of the Korea Daily newspaper. In fact, the space known as the "church" is located in an eight-story building in Daegu City.
据《南华早报》20日报道，一位不具名信徒透露，每逢周日的礼拜活动，大家便会聚集到这栋楼里，已婚的女性和男性分别坐在四楼和七楼，未婚的男女则统一坐在八楼。
According to an unnamed devotee, the building is crowded with married women and men on the fourth and seventh floors respectively, while unmarried men and women sit on the eighth floor, according to an unnamed follower.
而在礼拜活动开始前，大家得先“肩膀挨着肩膀”、整整齐齐地坐好，还得摘下自己的口罩和眼镜，接下来是一同高声颂唱半小时的赞美诗，聆听一小时的布道。
Before the service began, people had to sit neatly on their shoulders, take off their masks and glasses, and chant together a half-hour hymn and listen to an hour of sermons.
礼拜结束后，信众会分成一个个小组，相互问候，已婚女性则通常会拿出自己事先准备好的菜肴，与众人分享。
At the end of the service, the congregation greets each other in small groups, and married women often share their pre-prepared dishes.
已离开教会五年的李浩妍（Lee Ho-yeon，音译）告诉《纽约时报》，和其他教会不同，新天地教会要求信众“像军队里的士兵一样”彼此挨着坐好，脸上什么都不能戴，唱歌要有多大声就唱多大声。
Lee Ho-yeon, who had been out of church for five years, told The New York Times that, unlike other churches, Xintiandi Church required believers to sit next to each other "like soldiers in the army," without wearing anything on their faces and singing as loudly as they could.
据《韩国先驱报》20日报道，除此以外，信众在礼拜活动中还会进行一些身体接触，比如会将手臂搭在其他人的肩膀上。
In addition, some physical contact, such as placing the arm on the shoulder of another person, is practiced during the service, the Korea Herald reported on the 20th.
密闭的空间加上密切的接触，不难想象，一旦信众之中出现可通过飞沫及密切接触传播的新冠病毒的感染者，会造成何等规模的传播事件。
Confined spaces and close contact make it easy to imagine the scale of the spread of the new crown virus, which can be transmitted by droplets and close contact among the faithful.
对此，新天地教会给出的解释是，“不得已”。
To this, Xin tiandi church gives the explanation is, "have to".
该教会在网站上写道，“媒体报道说的我们好像就是病毒传播的罪魁祸首一样，说我们的礼拜形式很独特，但事实是，我们只能这样坐在地上，才能在有限的空间里，装下更多的人。
"Media reports suggest that we are the culprits for the spread of the virus," the church wrote on its Web site. "The truth is that we have to sit on the ground like this to accommodate more people in our limited space.
”李浩妍说，教会告诉他们的是，不要害怕生病。
What the church told them was not to be afraid of getting sick, Li said.
据悉，第31号病例在确诊前曾至少两次拒绝转院，不愿接受新冠病毒的检测。
Case No. 31 is known to have refused to be referred at least twice before being diagnosed and refused to be tested for the new crown virus.
“他们要我们别在乎世俗之事，比如工作、追求或是爱好，”李浩妍说，“一切精力都要用来劝说他人皈依（proselytizing），哪怕生病了也不能停。
"They want us not to care about mundane things like work, pursuit or hobbies," Li said. "All our energy should be used to persuade others to convert, even when they are sick."
”“被选中”的信众然而，信众的脚步还是停下来了。
"The chosen people, however, stopped in their footsteps.
新天地教会日前已宣布关闭大邱教堂，并禁止信众访问教会在全国12个分部的74座教堂，敦促信众改在家中和线上进行礼拜。
The Church of Xintiandi recently announced the closure of Taegu Church and has banned people from visiting 74 churches in 12 branches across the country, urging believers to worship at home and online.
但这并不意味着与新天地教会有关的疫情会就此告一段落。
But that doesn't mean the end of the epidemic involving the Church of Xintiandi.
据其官网，该教会在韩国和全球拥有超过20万信众，包括教堂和附属机构在内，教会在韩国共拥有约1100个据点，不仅各地之间常有交流，信众也遍布社会各行各业。
According to its official website, the church has more than 200,000 members in South Korea and around the world, including churches and affiliates. The church has about 1,100 strong points in Korea.
《南华早报》指出，比如在人口250万的大邱市，就有1.3万人是新天地的信众，在日本、中国内地、香港以及包括一些东南亚国家在内的约30个国家与地区，也活跃着约2万信众。
The South China Morning Post said 13,000 people in Taegu, a city with a population of 2.5 million, were followers of Xintiandi, and about 20,000 people were active in Japan, mainland China, Hong Kong and some 30 countries and regions, including some Southeast Asian countries.
来源：新天地教会官网公开资料显示，新天地教会的全称是“新天地耶稣教证据帐幕圣殿”，由现年88岁的韩国人李万熙于1984年3月14日建立，总部位于韩国京畿道果川市。
The full name of Xintiandi Church is the Temple of the Jesuit Evidence of Xintiandi, founded on March 14, 1984 by Lee Wanxi, an 88-year-old Korean based in Gyeonggi Province, South Korea.
李万熙于1931年9月15日出生在韩国庆尚北道。
Lee was born on September 15, 1931 in Gyeongshan North Province, South Korea.
据韩国《中央日报》21日报道，庆北清道郡正是李万熙的故乡，与果川市及忠南的鸡龙山国师峰（据称李万熙曾在此峰修行）并称为新天地教会的三大圣地。
Gyeongbei Ching Road County is the birthplace of Lee Wanxi, and the city of Gokawa and Chungnan Chicken Longshan Division Fengfeng, where Lee is said to have practiced, and called it the Three Holy Places of the Church of Xintiandi.
1月31日至2月2日，李万熙胞兄的葬礼在清道郡大南医院举行，据推测有不少新天地信众到场观礼。
From January 31 to February 2, the funeral of his brother Lee Wan-hee was held in Ching Road County's Da Nan Hospital.
不过，第31号病例表示，自己没参加这场葬礼，但她在清道郡去过一个澡堂。
Case No. 31, however, indicated that she had not attended the funeral, but that she had been to a bathhouse in Ching Tao County.
按照其官网的描述，“新天地”是上帝的国度，由上帝创造在现世，以履行天上的意志，这项工作已历经6000年。
According to its website, "New World" is God's kingdom, created by God in the world, to fulfill the will of heaven, this work has been going on for 6000 years.
李万熙则是“上帝指派的牧师”，正在人间创造上帝的天国，并将见证《启示录》中预言的“末日灾难”与“新天新地”。
Lee Wanxi is the "God-appointed priest" who is creating God's Heaven on earth and will witness the apocalyptic disaster and the "new heaven and the new earth" predicted in the Book of Revelation.
在据称为李万熙自传的《我所走过的路和神的恩惠》一书中，他曾写道，“我是王室的后代，作为光来到这个世界”，“ 就在某一天，我遇见了从天而降的天人耶稣”，“ 我所到之处都有彩虹同行，有十字架（云彩）同行，有光同行”。
"I am a descendant of the royal family who came into this world as light," he wrote in his book The Way I Walk and the Grace of God, an autobiography of Lee Wanxi. "On just one day I met the heavenly Jesus, who came down from heaven.
釜山长神大学的教授志日卓（Ji-il Tark，音译）告诉美联社，“新天地信众相信李万熙是不死的，能够永生。
Ji-il Tark, a professor at Changshen University in Busan, told the Associated Press: "People in Xintiandi believe that Lee is immortal and can live forever.
”按照教会官网的说法，“在最后的审判来临之时，将会有14.4万人能够灵体合一，登上天堂”。
"By the time the final judgment comes, 144,000 people will have reached the heavens in one spirit," according to the official website.
洪允浩（Hong Yeun-ho，音译）的女儿在两年前加入了新天地教会。
Hong Yeun-ho's daughter joined Xintiandi Church two years ago.
他告诉彭博新闻社，只有完成6个月的课程才能正式加入教会，参加他们的礼拜活动。
He told Bloomberg News that only after completing the six-month course could he formally join the church and attend their services.
此外，所有信众都必须录入指纹，才能进入教堂。
In addition, all believers must be fingerprinted in order to enter the church.
洪允浩说，这会让他们有“被选中”的感觉。
This will give them the feeling of being "selected," said Hong.
去年11月10日，新天地教会曾举办过一场声势浩大的毕业典礼。
On November 10 last year, Xintiandi Church held a big graduation ceremony.
来源：新天地教会官网而每逢重大活动，新天地教会也会以万人为计出动。
Source: Xintiandi Church official website and every major event, Xintiandi Church will also be out of 10,000 men.
去年11月10日，该教会举办过一场声势浩大的“毕业典礼”，庆贺103764名信众顺利完成6个月的课程。
On Nov. 10, the church held a big graduation ceremony to celebrate the successful completion of a six-month course for 103,764 believers.
由于人数过多，新天地教会不得不采用了直播的形式，在多地同时进行典礼。
Due to the large number of people, Xintiandi Church had to use the form of live broadcast, in many places simultaneously ceremony.
“隐秘”与争议韩国《东亚日报》20日报道说，新天地教会这种紧密的宗教联系，将会极大地改变新冠肺炎疫情的走向。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The church's close religious ties will dramatically change the course of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, South Korea's East Asian Daily reported Tuesday.
一位宗教专家告诉该报，“在新天地教会，成百上千信众都聚集在一个地方，礼拜、聚餐、交谈，病毒在极短的时间里就能造成感染。
"In Xintiandi Church, hundreds of believers congregate in one place to worship, eat and talk, and the virus can infect in a very short time," a religious expert told the paper.
”与新天地大邱教会有关的病例数量的急剧增加已说明了这一点。
This is illustrated by the dramatic increase in the number of cases related to the Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
据《韩国时报》21日报道，继对该教会本月9日和16日与第31号病例一起进行礼拜的1001人展开调查后，大邱市又追加对3474名信众进行了询问，综合两次调查结果，已有544人表示自己出现症状，还有343人尚无法取得联系。
After investigating 1,001 people who attended services with Case No. 31 on the 9th and 16th of this month, Daegu asked 3,474 more people, adding up the results of two surveys, 544 of whom said they had symptoms and 343 could not be reached.
而随着韩国中央防疫对策本部扩大检测范围，截至22日白天，该教会已有9336人接受了问询，其中1261人表示自己出现不适，比例高达13.5%。
As of the day, 9,336 people had been questioned, including 1,261, or 13.5 percent, who said they were unwell.
但韩国有牧师怀疑，真正可能受到感染的人数，只会比这个数字更多，而且不会只存在于新天地教会内部。
But South Korean clerics suspect that the number of people actually at risk of infection will only be higher than that, and will not be found only within the Church of Xintiandi.
牧师申显旭（Shin Hyun-uk，音译）告诉《南华早报》，该教会开展传福音活动时十分“大胆”，但行事“隐秘”，布道者会潜入其他基督教会，参加他们的礼拜活动，劝说他人皈依“新天地”。
Reverend Shin Hyun-uk told the South China Morning Post that the church was "bold" in its evangelical activities but "secretive," and that preachers would sneak into other Christian churches to attend their services and persuade others to convert.
“我怀疑‘新天地’不会公开曾与第31号病例接触的信众的行动轨迹，也不会完全配合政府的追踪工作，”申显旭说，“他们担心这会披露自己的秘密传教活动，这实在令人担心。
"I suspect Xintiandi will not disclose the track of the people who came into contact with Case No. 31, nor will it fully cooperate with the government's tracking efforts," said Shin Hsien-yuk.
”曾对新天地教会进行过研究的牧师黄义英（Hwang Eui-jong，音译）也告诉《纽约时报》，如今，该教会的信众正将目标转向韩国的年轻人，不仅免费帮他们解读占卜，还会提供个性测试和外语课程。
Hwang Eui-jong, a pastor who studied the Church in Xintiandi, also told The New York Times that the church's followers are now targeting young South Koreans not only to read divination for free, but also to offer personality tests and foreign language classes.
在韩国基督教界，新天地教会的确不招待见。
In Korean Christianity, Xintiandi Church does not entertain people.
韩国基督教监理会在2014年认定该教会为“异端”，韩国基督教联合会也在2016年发布公告，要求信众警惕该教会的“侵蚀”。
In 2014, the Korean Council of Churches designated the church as "heretical," and in 2016 the Korean Christian Association issued a proclamation warning believers to be wary of "encroachment" by the church.
此后，英国、新西兰、印度等地的基督教界也都发出过提醒，中国一些地区也发布过取缔该教会的公告。
Since then, Christian communities in Britain, New Zealand and India have also issued reminders, as have announcements in some parts of China banning the church.
就连韩国中央防疫对策本部，也在2月19日的英文通报中将新天地教会称为“异端”（cult）。
Even the Central Anti-epidemic Policy Headquarters of Korea, in an English-language bulletin on February 19, called Xintiandi Church "heretic."
有信众的家人向媒体“控诉”该教会的不是，60岁的文柳佳（Moon Yoo-ja）说，自己多年来一直想“拯救”自己的女儿，“一旦人们入了会，往往就会放弃学业和工作，一些家庭主妇还会离家出走，抛弃丈夫和孩子。
Moon Yoo-ja, 60, said she had been trying to "save" her daughter for years. "Once people get into society, they tend to give up their studies and jobs, and some housewives run away from their husbands and children.
”标橙文字为：同样的韩国异端，名为新天地 来源：韩国中央防疫对策本部英文网站黄义英解释说，新天地教会的信众其实清楚这些“恶名”，所以往往会隐藏自己的身份，就连父母也不会告知。
Believers in Xintiandi Church are aware of the stigma, so they tend to hide their identities, even from their parents, explained Huang Yiying, the official website of the Central Anti-epidemic Policy of Korea.
而在第31号病例确诊后，韩国社交媒体上也出现了一些传言，称该教会的信众被告知私下里要继续小范围布道，若被当局问起，就否认自己与教会存在联系。
After case No. 31 was diagnosed, rumors also surfaced on South Korean social media that the congregation was told to continue to preach small sermons in private, denying that they were affiliated with the church if asked by the authorities.
新天地教会对此予以否认，称已处罚相关责任人。
Xintiandi Church denied this, said that has punished those responsible.
李万熙也在21日呼吁信众“遵照政府的指示”，减少聚会并改为线上布道。
Lee on the 21st also called on believers to "follow the government's instructions", reduce the number of meetings and convert to online sermons.
大邱分会一官员当天告诉《中央日报》，已在努力制定和实施相关的疫情防控措施，“近30万信众正在恳切地向上帝祈祷，希望新冠肺炎疫情能尽快结束。
"Nearly 300,000 people are praying earnestly to God that the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia will end soon," an official with the Taegu branch told China Daily.
”在当天发表的内部信中，李万熙也鼓励大家，一起“赢得这场考验”。
In an internal letter issued the same day, Lee also encouraged everyone to "win the test."
“让我们战胜诱惑与欺骗，加深我们的信仰，我们能赢，”他写道，“夜幕降临，就代表光明将至，信仰会为我们作证，任何风浪都无法夺走我们的心灵和信念。
"Let us overcome temptation and deceit and deepen our faith, and we can win," he wrote. "When night falls, light will come, faith will witness us, and no storm will take away our hearts and our faith.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
让韩国亮起疫情红灯的，为何是“新天地教会”？。
Let South Korea light up the red light, why is "Xintiandi Church"?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "让韩国亮起疫情红灯的，为何是“新天地教会”？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why did South Korea light up its red light? & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var msg_desc = "“这场疾病，出自恶魔之手，意图扼杀‘新天地’的飞速壮大。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "This disease, at the hands of a fiend, was intended to kill the rapid growth of New Horizons.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
