意大利成新冠疫情欧洲重灾区，米兰时装周或草草收场。
Italy's New Crown Epidemic in Europe, Milan Fashion Week or a cursory end.
界女士。
Ms. Reynolds.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
在Giorgio Armani米兰时装周的秀场外，工作人员带起了口罩。
On the sidelines of the Giorgio Armani Milan Fashion Week show, staff wore masks.
图片来源：路透社记者：黄姗 编辑：周卓然“ 虽然大部分品牌在刚刚过去的周日按照原定计划完成了走秀，但米兰时装周余下日程活动恐怕将草草收场。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn / Reuters editor: Johan Chou: Although most of the brands finished the show on Sunday as originally planned, the rest of Milan's fashion week is likely to end in a hurry
”意大利已经成为欧洲受疫情影响最严重的国家。
Italy has become the most affected country in Europe.
截至当地时间2月24日零时，意大利累计确诊新冠肺炎病例已达157例，其中三例死亡、两人治愈出院。
By 0000 hours local time on February 24, Italy had confirmed 157 cases of new crown pneumonia, three of them fatal and two cured.
当地时间2月23日开始，意大利北部伦巴第大区和威尼托大区的11个市镇已经进入封城隔离，违反防疫要求者将面临监禁或罚款处罚。
Since 23 February local time, 11 municipalities in the regions of Lombardy and Veneto in northern Italy have been isolated from the city, and those who violate the requirements for vaccination face prison sentences or fines.
虽然米兰和威尼斯目前不在封城名单上，但米兰已经宣布暂时关闭大学和米兰大教堂，而米兰时装周的活动也受到了影响。
Milan and Venice are not on the list, but Milan have announced the temporary closure of the university and the cathedral, and Milan Fashion Week has also been affected.
担心疫情会进一步扩散，意大利奢侈品牌Giorgio Armani在22日晚上宣布，原定于上周日的米兰时装周发布会改成在一间空秀场内完成，所有受邀嘉宾和观众当晚都只能通过在线直播进行收看。
Fearing that the epidemic could spread further, Italian luxury brand Giorgio Armani announced Sunday evening that the opening of Milan Fashion Week, originally scheduled for Sunday, would be changed to a show where all invitees and spectators will be able to watch only live on-line that evening.
在一份公开声明中，该品牌表示，“这个决定是为了所有受邀嘉宾的健康着想，不让他们挤在拥挤的空间内。
In a public statement, the brand said: "The decision was made for the sake of the health of all invited guests and to keep them out of the crowded space.
”Giorgio Armani 2020秋季女装系列意大利国家时装商会主席Carlo Capasa在一份公开声明中表示，“时装秀将会冷静地进行下去，目前没有恐慌，在米兰或我们所在的区域目前没有确诊病患或疑似病例的出现，我们希望现状能继续保持。
"The show will go on calmly and there is no panic," Carlo Capasa, president of the Italian National Fashion Chamber, said in a public statement. "There is no immediate panic, and there are no confirmed cases or suspected cases in Milan or our region.
”但声明也提到，各个品牌有权决定是否继续完成走秀。
But the statement also said brands had the right to decide whether to proceed with the show.
虽然不是意大利国家时装商会的一员，意大利奢侈品牌Dolce&Gabbana也把2020秋冬系列大秀安排在23日当天。
Italian luxury brand Dolce & amp; amp; amp; amp; Gambana has also set the date for its 2020 fall and winter series, though not a member of the Italian National Fashion Chamber.
而D&G上周日的这场大秀差点泡汤。
And D & amp; G's big show last Sunday nearly fell through.
时装秀的开秀时间通常晚于规定时间，因为看秀嘉宾们总是姗姗来迟。
Fashion shows usually show later than the established time, because show guests are always too late to come.
但因为疫情原因而加强监管的米兰当地警方给Dolce&Gabbana下了死规定，要求必须按时开秀，否则就要关闭秀场。
But local police in Milan, where surveillance has been tightened because of the outbreak, have killed Dolce & amp; Gabbana and demanded that the show be opened on time or closed.
因此，在周日晚上演的Dolce&Gabbana秋冬时装秀上，据FashionNetwork报道，有数十位迟到的买手和编辑们被迫在米兰市中心Viale Piave的秀场上方的画廊内看完了这场大秀。
So at Dolce & amp; Gabbana's autumn / winter fashion show on Sunday night, dozens of late buyers and editors were forced to watch the show from a gallery at Viale Piave in downtown Milan, according to FashionNetwork.
Dolce&Gabbana 2020秋冬系列虽然大部分品牌在刚刚过去的周日按照原定计划完成了走秀，但米兰时装周余下日程活动恐怕仍将草草收场。
The rest of Milan's fashion week may yet be in tatters, although most of its brands completed the show last Sunday as planned.
《女装日报》报道称，为配合意大利政府应对新冠肺炎疫情采取的行动，Michael Kors上周日取消了原计划在米兰举办的“007詹姆斯·邦德”联名系列发布会，该品牌与最新007系列电影《无暇赴死 》合作推出了一个胶囊系列。
Michael Kors cancelled a planned joint James Bond series in Milan on Sunday to coincide with the Italian government's response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown Pneumonia, and launched a capsule series in partnership with the latest 007 film, No Time to Die, the Daily Dress said.
由该电影主演和Michael Kors母公司Capri控股首席执行官John Idol出席的聚会和晚宴也同样被取消。
Meetings and dinners attended by John Idol, star of the film and chief executive of Michael Kors' parent company Capri Holdings, were similarly cancelled.
米兰距离已经被封城的伦巴第大区仅有62公里，约一小时车程。
Milan is only 62 kilometers from the blockaded Lombardy region, about an hour's drive.
多家媒体报道，在米兰和伦巴第大区之间的多场活动已经被取消，包括一些体育赛事。
Several media reports indicate that several events between Milan and Lombardy have been cancelled, including some sporting events.
而原定于2月29日到3月2日之间在米兰举办的Mido眼镜贸易展，也将推迟到今年夏天举办。
The Mido Glasses Trade Fair, originally scheduled to be held in Milan between February 29 and March 2, will also be postponed until this summer.
米兰时装周之后紧接着就是2020巴黎时装周秋冬女装展。
Milan Fashion Week is followed closely by the Autumn and Winter Women's Show 2020 Paris Fashion Week.
一位意大利设计师告诉行业媒体Footwearnews，她既担心呆在米兰，同时也害怕飞往巴黎。
An Italian designer told industry media that she was worried about staying in Milan as well as flying to Paris.
截止至24日8时30分，法国确诊新冠肺炎病例为7人，一人死亡，其中有五例已经康复出院。
As of 0830 hours on the 24th, seven cases of pneumonia had been confirmed in France and one person had died, five of whom had recovered and been discharged.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利成新冠疫情欧洲重灾区，米兰时装周或草草收场。
Italy's New Crown Epidemic in Europe, Milan Fashion Week or a cursory end.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利成新冠疫情欧洲重灾区，米兰时装周或草草收场";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Italy's new crown - infested region of Europe, Milan Fashion Week, or hastily completed & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "虽然大部分品牌在刚刚过去的周日按照原定计划完成了走秀，但米兰时装周余下日程活动恐怕将草草收场。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; While most brands completed their show last Sunday as scheduled, the rest of Milan's fashion week is likely to be at an early end.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
