伊朗新冠肺炎死亡率近19%，美国制裁下“战疫”更难？。
With nearly 19% of Iran's new crown pneumonia death rate, the U. S. sanctions under the "epidemic" more difficult?
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：PressTV记者：肖恩“ 伊朗卫生部发言人在接受《金融时报》采访时坦言，国内感染人数可能高于目前通报的数量，但伊朗把人民的健康放在首位，这时不会考虑政治或经济因素。
Source: PressTV: Sean, a spokesman for Iran's health ministry, admitted in an interview with the Financial Times that the number of infections in the country may be higher than currently reported, but Iran puts people's health first and does not consider political or economic factors.
”伊朗已然成为中东地区的新冠肺炎疫情中心。
Iran has become the epicentre of the new outbreak of pneumonia in the Middle East.
从2月19日通报出现确诊病例至23日，短短五天，伊朗新冠肺炎确诊人数激增至43例，其中八例死亡，是除中国外死亡人数最多的国家，死亡率高达18.6%。
In the five days from the notification of the confirmed cases on February 19 to 23, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Iran surged to 43, with eight deaths, the highest number outside China, at 18.6 per cent.
在什叶派圣城库姆，共有26例确诊病例，包括五例死亡病例。
In the Shiite holy city of Qom, there were 26 confirmed cases, including five deaths.
伊朗七个陆上邻国中，有五个已经宣布关闭与伊朗边境，包括巴基斯坦、伊拉克、土耳其、阿富汗和亚美尼亚。
Five of Iran's seven land neighbours have announced the closure of their borders with Iran, including Pakistan, Iraq, Turkey, Afghanistan and Armenia.
此外，土耳其还宣布暂时停止往返伊朗的航班。
In addition, Turkey has announced the temporary suspension of flights to and from Iran.
阿富汗国家安全网站称，为防止新冠肺炎疫情扩散，该国已停止与伊朗所有陆上和空中往来，同时关闭两国边境。
The Afghan national security website says it has stopped all land and air travel with Iran and has closed its border to prevent the spread of the outbreak.
巴基斯坦则在巴伊边境设立了有100张床位的帐篷医院，以应对可能发生的紧急情况。
In Pakistan, a 100-bed tent hospital was established on the border between Pakistan and Iraq to respond to potential emergencies.
科威特也取消了所有往返伊朗的航班和船只。
Kuwait has also cancelled all flights and vessels to and from Iran.
约旦则在23日开始禁止来自伊朗的非约旦人入境。
Jordan on the 23rd began to prohibit the entry of non-Jordanians from Iran.
伊朗总统鲁哈尼23日出席内阁会议时表示，德黑兰将动用军事力量控制疫情，尽可能地减小损失。
Iran's President Rowhani 23 Cabinet meeting said Tehran will use military force to control the outbreak and minimize losses.
另据伊朗Press TV报道，鲁哈尼当天还签发命令，要求伊朗卫生部长纳马基（Saeed Namaki）牵头成立一个国家疫情防控指挥部。
Rouhani also issued an order asking Iran's health minister, Saeed Namaki, to lead the creation of a national command for disease control, press TV reported.
纳马基表示，伊朗每个城市都会设立至少一家新冠肺炎定点医院，在德黑兰等大城市可能会增加，所有治疗费用全免。
Mr Namaki said every Iranian city would have at least one new Crown Pneumonia designated hospital, which could increase in major cities such as Tehran and free of charge for all treatments.
全国将投入至少230家医院用以接受新冠肺炎患者。
At least 230 hospitals across the country will be used to receive new cases of pneumonia.
德黑兰市长哈纳奇（Pirouz Hanachi）表示，全市所有公共场所、公交车和地铁会在每天晚上消毒。
The mayor of Tehran, Pirouz Hanachi, says all public places, buses and subways in the city are disinfected every night.
伊朗已经出台一系列“防疫措施”，包括关闭14个省份的学校和教育机构、展览馆和电影院等场所也关闭一周，以及暂停足球赛事等。
Iran has put in place a series of "vaccination measures," including the closure of schools and educational institutions, exhibitions and cinemas in 14 provinces for a week, and the suspension of football matches.
但伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊却称，伊朗国内的肺炎疫情被敌对势力利用，以妨害该国选举。
But Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei says Iran's pneumonia epidemic is being used by hostile forces to disrupt the country's elections.
伊朗四年一度的议会选举在23日落下帷幕，投票率仅有42.57%，是1979年伊斯兰革命以来最低。
Iran's quadrennial parliamentary elections ended on the 23rd, with a turnout of 42.57%, the lowest since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
哈梅内伊23日表示，低投票率与一些关于新冠肺炎疫情的虚假宣传有关。
Khamenei 23 said the low turnout was linked to some false information about the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
敌对势力抓住这次机会，利用媒体造势，阻止人们前去投票。
The hostile forces seized the opportunity to use the media campaign to prevent people from voting.
实际上，在21日选举开始前，就有大批伊朗年轻人表示不会去投票，以表达对宪法监护委员会剥夺改革派候选人参选机会的不满。
Indeed, before the 21 st election, a large number of young Iranians said they would not vote to express their displeasure with the Guardian Council's denial of access to reformist candidates.
此前就有预测指出，此次伊朗议会选举投票率或仅有50%左右。
Forecasts had suggested that only about 50 per cent of the electorate would vote in Iran's parliamentary elections.
伊朗民众对政府的信任度已经达到低谷，尤其是在此前伊朗政府屡次否认击落乌克兰客机的事实以后。
Iranian confidence in the government has hit rock bottom, especially after Tehran repeatedly denied shooting down a Ukrainian airliner.
不少伊朗民众对政府公布的确诊数字表示怀疑。
Many Iranians are skeptical of the government's figures.
还有民众指出，虽然政府一直表示口罩和洗手液供应充足，但事实并非如此。
It was also noted that although the Government had consistently stated that there was an adequate supply of surgical masks and hand sanitizers, this was not the case.
据英国《金融时报》报道，在伊朗通报首例新冠肺炎死亡病例后，伊朗国内就出现了抢购食物的现象。
According to the Financial Times, there has been a scramble for food in Iran since Iran reported its first death from pneumonia.
消毒产品、口罩和一些食品价格在过去几天涨了五倍，一些药店的口罩已经售罄。
Sterilized products, masks and some food items have quintupled in the past few days, and some pharmacies have sold out of masks.
伊朗卫生部发言人贾汉普尔在接受《金融时报》采访时坦言，伊朗国内感染的人数可能高于目前通报的数量，只有那些前去就医或者出现严重症状的患者才会被纳入统计。
In an interview with the Financial Times, Iranian Health Ministry spokesman Mohammad Jahanpur admitted that the number of people infected in Iran may be higher than currently reported, and only those who go to see a doctor or have severe symptoms will be counted.
贾汉普尔同时强调，他们把人民的健康放在首位，这时候不会考虑政治或经济因素。
Jahanpur also stressed that they put the health of their people first and would not consider political or economic considerations at this time.
伊朗政府发言人拉贝（Ali Rabiei）19日表示，卫生部在处理疫情爆发问题时做到了诚实、透明。
Iran's government spokesman Ali Rabiei said on the 19th, the Ministry of Health in dealing with the outbreak of the disease has been honest and transparent.
无论政府态度如何，美国制裁下的伊朗应对疫情的能力的确堪忧。
Irrespective of the government's attitude, the ability of US-sanctioned Iran to deal with the epidemic is a real concern.
英国东英吉利大学医学教授亨特（Paul Hunter）表示，如果感染人数庞大，伊朗基本不可能有足够的设备和资源筛查和诊治患者。
If the number of infections is large, it is highly unlikely that Iran will have enough equipment and resources to screen and treat patients, says Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at Britain's East Anglia University.
在过去发生的多次武装冲突中，医疗设施通常会成为打击目标，受损严重。
In past armed conflicts, medical facilities have often been targeted and severely damaged.
一名来自吉兰省拉什特（Rasht）的护士表示，她们身处诊治疑似病人的前线，却没有符合标准的防护服或口罩，只能使用没有真正防护力的手术衣，消毒产品也急缺。
Rasht, a nurse from Gilan province, said they were on the front lines of treatment for suspected patients but did not have standard protective clothing or face masks.
一名伊朗商人对伊朗劳动通讯社（ILNA）表示，有多家国际企业有意向伊朗提供新冠病毒试剂盒，但由于美国制裁限制，伊朗无法向这些企业付款。
An Iranian businessman told the Iran Labor News Agency (ILNA) that several international companies were interested in providing Iran with New Crown Virus kits, but Iran was unable to make payments to those companies because of restrictions imposed by US sanctions.
就在21日，国际反洗钱金融行动特别工作组（FATF）决定将伊朗重新列入黑名单，与伊朗进行的所有交易都面临更严格的审查。
On the 21st, the International Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF) decided to re-blacklist Iran, making all transactions with Iran subject to stricter scrutiny.
WHO地中海东部区域办公室成员阿布巴卡尔（Abdinasir Abubakar）也说，伊朗拥有区域内最好的医疗卫生系统之一，有能力应对疫情。
Abdinasir Abubakar, a member of the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, also says Iran has one of the best health systems in the region and is capable of dealing with the epidemic.
但美国制裁的确对伊朗经济造成巨大打击，可能导致伊朗无法进口生产相应设备和药物的技术。
But US sanctions do deal a huge blow to Iran's economy, possibly preventing it from importing the technology to produce the equipment and drugs needed to do so.
但贾汉普尔仍然表示，伊朗拥有检测病毒的能力，并且从一个多月前就开始进口相关设备。
But Jahanpur says Iran has the ability to detect the virus and began importing the equipment more than a month ago.
美国制裁没有也不会对伊朗进口医疗设备产生影响。
US sanctions have had no and no impact on Iranian imports of medical equipment.
目前世界卫生组织（WHO）援助的第四批新冠病毒试剂盒已经运抵伊朗，还有更多正在路上。
The fourth World Health Organization-assisted New Crown Virus kit has arrived in Iran, and many more are on their way.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗新冠肺炎死亡率近19%，美国制裁下“战疫”更难？。
With nearly 19% of Iran's new crown pneumonia death rate, the U. S. sanctions under the "epidemic" more difficult?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗新冠肺炎死亡率近19%，美国制裁下“战疫”更难？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Iran's nearly 19% death rate from pneumonia, made it harder to fight with U.S. sanctions?;
var msg_desc = "伊朗卫生部发言人在接受《金融时报》采访时坦言，国内感染人数可能高于目前通报的数量，但伊朗把人民的健康放在首位，这时不会考虑政治或经济因素。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iran's Health Ministry spokesman admitted in an interview with the Financial Times that the number of people infected in the country may be higher than is currently reported, but that Iran puts people's health first and does not consider political or economic factors.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
