一家24小时书店疫情下的紧急自救。
An emergency rescue in a 24-hour bookstore outbreak.
马越。
Ma Yue.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
1200bookshop记者：马越  编辑：牙韩翔“ 广州第一家24小时不打烊的书店，第一次在夜晚熄了灯。
"Guangzhou's first 24-hour closed bookstore turned off its lights at night for the first time.
脆弱的实体书店行业，也将迎来生存危机。
Fragile physical bookstore industry, will also usher in an existential crisis.
”2月24日，“二月二”这一天，由许知远联合创办的单向街书店，开始在社交网络上发出众筹求助。
On February 24, February 24, the one-way street bookstore jointly founded by Xu Zhiyuan began a crowd-fundraising campaign on social networks.
这个坚持了15年的书店品牌，仅剩的4家实体书店只有北京朝阳大悦城一家开始营业，预计整个2月份收入较往年直线下滑 80% 之多，对这个本来就利润微薄的行业来说，这意味着绝境。
The only remaining physical bookstore in the 15-year-old brand is Beijing's Chaoyang Hyatt City, where revenues are expected to plummet by as much as 80% in February over previous years, meaning a desperate situation for an industry that is already running low.
“每一个普通人的疼痛和焦急，汇成了此刻我们共同的命运。
"The pain and anxiety of every human being come to be our common destiny at this moment.
”求助信里说。
"said the letter.
疫情对于实体行业的冲击显而易见。
The impact of the epidemic on the real sector is clear.
比起餐饮行业的大声疾呼，实体书店的发声微弱了很多。
The voice of the physical bookstore is much weaker than that of the restaurant industry.
当然也是因为饭店屯菜可以出售，可以送外卖，因为它是生活必需，而图书却不是。
Of course, it's also because a restaurant can sell food and take it out, because it's a necessity, but books aren't.
2月4号晚上10点，广州体育东路1200bookshop的店员开始准备打烊。
At 10 p.m. on February 4, the clerk at the 1200 bookshop on Guangzhou Sports East Road began to prepare for closing time.
白天的客流已经急剧减少。
The daytime passenger flow has been drastically reduced.
这座南方城市夜晚热闹的景象不再，零星的几个顾客走出门，和戴着口罩的店员点头，彼此用眼神致意：“注意安全。
The hustle and bustle of the southern city is over. A few patrons walk out the door, nod to each other in masks, and greet each other with eyes: "Be careful.
”广州第一家24小时不打烊的书店，第一次在夜晚熄了灯。
Guangzhou's first 24-hour closed bookstore turned off its lights for the first time at night.
事态开始变得严重的时候，书店老板刘二囍还在国外。
Mr. Liu, the bookstore owner, is still in the country when things start to get serious.
春节前夕他按照计划出行，去考察洛杉矶当地的实体书店。
On the eve of Spring Festival, he traveled as planned to visit the Los Angeles local physical bookstore.
国内防疫升级的消息接连不断，他开始感到忐忑不安。
News of the escalation of domestic epidemic prevention continued, and he began to feel uneasy.
1200bookshop 图片来源：1200bookshop微信公众号变化来得突然。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cn
正常营业的状态被疫情踩了急刹车，整个春节到2月的前两周，他在国内一半以上的门店关闭，没有任何收入来源。
Business as usual was braked by the epidemic, and for the first two weeks of the Spring Festival to February, he closed more than half his stores in the country without any source of income.
勉强保持营业状态的门店，收入也非常惨淡，甚至不及平日的十分之一。
Shops struggling to stay in business also make very miserable, even less than a tenth of their usual earnings.
不出意外，二月份所有门店将全线亏损。
Not surprisingly, all stores will lose money across the board in February.
春节，通常是实体书店行业一年中资金链最脆弱的时候。
Spring Festival, is usually the physical bookstore industry in a year the most vulnerable financial chain.
整个1月份，除了给员工发工资，大部分书店都在为春节档和开学季做准备，采买进货，给供应商结货款。
Throughout January, in addition to paying employees, most bookstores are preparing for the Spring Festival and the start of the school year, buying goods and paying suppliers.
尤其是中小书店，如果没有收入，房租、工资、货款每一项都在成为压垮它们的重担。
Small and medium-sized bookstores in particular, if there is no income, rent, wages, loans are all becoming a crushing burden.
刘二囍联络了房东，尝试申请租金减免，在迟迟没有得到肯定的回复后，他在创办实体书店6年来第一次觉得，“可能真的到了事关生死的时刻。
After trying to obtain a positive response to his request for rent reduction, Mr. Liu, for the first time in six years, feels that "it may indeed be a matter of life and death.
”“大家都觉得，关门结业接下来就是遣散员工，快要活不下去了。
"Everyone thinks that closing the door is followed by laying off workers who are going to die.
”孙谦是最早觉察到行业集中迎来生存危机的人之一，她是国内实体书店联盟“书萌”的创始人。
Mr Sun, who was one of the first to detect an existential crisis in the industry, was the founder of "Shu Meng," a domestic entity bookstore federation.
整个春节，书店群里的同行们都是唱衰的声音。
Throughout the Spring Festival, the peers in the bookstore are all singing the blues.
大年初二，她看到同行曾锋写了一篇《一个书业人的鼠年春节随想》，呼吁书店自救。
New Year's Day, she saw a colleague Zeng Feng wrote a "book industry of the Year of the Rat Spring Festival thinking," calling on the bookstore to help themselves.
于是紧随其后，决定发起一份书店现状的调查。
Immediately afterwards, it was decided to launch an investigation into the state of the bookstore.
“第一是希望大家知道受伤的不止你一家，第二是让大家知道我们每个人都在关心书店，我们先要把信心提振起来。
"The first is to let everyone know that you're not the only one injured. The second is to let everyone know that we all care about the bookstore.
”孙谦告诉界面新闻。
Sun told the interface news.
截止2月5号，从全国范围内收到1021份问卷，孙谦和曾锋合作发布了一份报告。
As of February 5, 1021 questionnaires had been received from all over the country, and Sun Qianhe and Zeng Feng had jointly issued a report.
他们发现，停业书店已经超过了90%，超过99%的实体书店目前没有正常收入，79.04%的实体书店的资金则撑不过3个月。
They found that over 90 per cent of the bookstores were closed, more than 99 per cent of the physical bookstores currently had no regular income, and 79.04 per cent of the physical bookstores had less than three months of funding.
“基本可以判定，自2013年以来的实体书店回暖复苏期将宣告结束，未来一段时间内将会出现大范围的中小实体书店应急调整甚至闭店现象。
"Basically, it can be concluded that the recovery period of the physical bookstore will be over since 2013, and there will be a wide range of small and medium-sized entity bookstores in the future to adjust or even close shop phenomenon."
”报告中说，“实体书店需要自我诊断、开方找药、自我解救。
"Physical bookstores need self-diagnosis, prescription and self-help," the report said.
”看到这份行业报告，还在洛杉矶的刘二囍和10个同事紧急开了会，盘算着该如何计划下一步。
Mr. Liu also had an emergency meeting with 10 colleagues in Los Angeles to figure out how to plan the next step, according to the industry report.
占据往日营收4成的咖啡业务做不了，图书虽然并不像水果蔬菜那样怕烂在地里，但它们只要摆在书架和堆放在仓库多一天，书店便会承受多一天没有流水的压力。
Coffee, which used to earn 40% of its revenue, doesn't work. Books aren't as bad as fruits and vegetables, but as long as they sit on the shelves and pile in the warehouse for an extra day, the store will be under pressure for an extra day without running water.
迟迟无法复工，员工们担忧当下的疫情，也担忧未来的生计。
Workers, worried about the current outbreak and their future livelihoods, have been slow to resume work.
刘二囍曾经说过自己不太赞成实体书店“太过悲情”的表达，“早几年，传统书店面临集体凋零，面临消亡自然会有惋叹的情绪。
Mr. Liu has said that he is not in favor of the expression "too sad" in a physical bookstore. "In the early years, the traditional bookstore is facing a collective decline and is facing extinction that naturally leads to euphoria.
大量媒体哀挽式的报道，加剧了这种悲情。
The lament was exacerbated by a spate of lamentable media reports.
”他说，“悲情难免，只是不希望过于渲染这种情绪，生活总得继续，要努力乐观。
'Misery is inevitable, but I don't want to exaggerate it, 'he said.
更值得着墨的应该是探寻如何改变与应对，面向未来。
It is more worthwhile to explore how to change and respond to the future.
”但眼下顾不得那么多，求生欲让他开始寻求线上渠道。
But with so much to spare for the moment, the desire to survive has led him to seek online channels.
2月15号晚上11点55分，刘二囍在1200bookshop的微信公众号中第一次向读者们发出了一封求救信，“六年来，不打烊书店一直24小时亮着灯，夜间从未停止过营业的1200bookshop总店（体育东店），夜间已经熄了灯。
At 11.55 p.m. on February 15th, Mr. Liu sent out a distress message to readers for the first time in a microphone public sign featuring 1,200 bookshops. "For six years now, no-closing bookstores have been operating around the clock and their 1200bookshop (East Sports Shop) has been out of service at night.
对此我们非常担忧，如果这种状况持续再久一些，书店的灯也将在白日无光。
We are very worried that if this situation continues longer, the lights in the bookstore will go out of light during the day.
”通过微信小程序的方式，读者可以购买1200bookshop的储值卡、帆布袋文创，或是包含图书和文创的“盲选礼包”——读者可以留言当下的感触或者阅读倾向，书店则会尽力为每个人的需求来匹配。
Using the microphone app, readers can purchase 1,200 bookshop store cards, canvas bags or "blind pick-and-choose" gift packets containing books and artwork - readers can leave a message about their current feelings or inclination to read, and bookstores will try to match everyone's needs.
多亏书店微信公众号积累了超过10万的粉丝，很快，这篇文章的阅读量超过了10万。
Thanks to the bookstore Weixin Public, which has amassed more than 100,000 fans, the article was soon read by more than 100,000 people.
读者留言道：“加油，自救不丢人”“请一定要撑下去，等疫情过去之后我去广州找你。
Readers message: "Come on, self-help does not humiliate" "Please insist on, after the epidemic has passed I go to Guangzhou to find you.
”由于直飞航班取消，刘二囍辗转泰国终于回到广州，同时带回来的，还有朋友帮忙在海外采购的2000个口罩。
With the cancellation of the direct flight, Mr. Liu has finally returned to Guangzhou with two thousand masks that were purchased overseas with the help of friends.
微信小程序图书订单超过了2000单，文创帆布袋也卖了1000多个。
Micromail small program book orders more than 2,000, Wenchuang canvas bags also sold more than 1000.
平日的咖啡消费区、地上都摆满了书，所有人的工作量比往常突然大增，他一回到店里，就和所有员工一起忙着选书、打包和发货。
The usual coffee-consuming areas and floors were filled with books, and everyone's workload suddenly increased more than usual. As soon as he got back to the store, he and all the employees were busy selecting, packing and shipping books.
店内打包发货的场景 图片来源：1200bookshop微信公众号实体书店，在各个零售领域中应该算是最赚不到钱的行当。
2007-9-25 21: 38: 00 Bookshop The physical bookstore, No. 1, is probably the least profitable of all retail businesses.
传统书店尤其是中小型书店，很难与电商平台在价格上有什么竞争优势。
Traditional bookstores, especially small and medium-sized bookstores, and electrical business platform in the price of what competitive advantage.
在资金压力之外，主营业务单一、收入来源较少也是问题，“我们在行业内做过调查，如果卖书的收入占到30%以上，那就一定是亏损的。
In addition to the financial pressure, the main business is single, the source of income is less, "we have done research in the industry, if the sales of books account for more than 30% of the income, it must be a loss.
”孙谦告诉界面新闻。
Sun told the interface news.
愿意开书店的老板，大多出自情怀。
Bosses who are willing to open bookstores are mostly sentimental.
刘二囍创办24小时书店的念头，是在中国台湾环岛1200公里时诞生的——1200bookshop的店名，也正是来源于此。
The idea of creating a 24-hour bookstore is exactly what led to the birth of 1,200 bookshops around the island of Taiwan, China.
夜里2点钟，还有出租车在24小时营业的诚品书店门口排队，给他“带来了很大冲击”，而他也被这种人文关怀所吸引。
At 2 p. m., there was a line of taxis in front of the 24-hour Sincere product store, giving him a "big shock," and he was attracted by the humanistic concern.
供背包客休息的地方 图片来源：1200bookshop微信公众号2014年回到广州，他就在居住的小区附近找了间铺子，临街的店铺充满了烟火气。
Back in Guangzhou in 2014, the backpacker returned to Guangzhou, where he found a shop near his neighborhood filled with fireworks.
后来随着业务的扩张，1200bookshop的几家分店开在广州和深圳的商业中心。
As the business expanded, some 1,200 bookshops opened in commercial centers in Guangzhou and Shenzhen.
但刘二囍始终让总店保持24小时营业——“为一座城市点燃一盏深夜的灯”，举办读书会、观影会、音乐会等各类文化沙龙活动，每周六晚从12点到凌晨2点的“深夜故事”也在持续更新。
However, Mr. Liu always keeps the main store operating on a 24-hour basis -- "light a late-night light for a city," hold book-reading sessions, video-watching meetings and concerts, and continue to update the "late-night story" every Saturday night from 12 p.m. to 2 a.m.
以及，这里还会为背包客提供过夜的容身之所。
And there will be a place for backpackers to spend the night in.
“有三分之一的顾客会经常来，还有人喜欢在这里过夜。
"A third of the customers come regularly and there are people who like to stay overnight.
”刘二囍告诉界面新闻，“对于这家总店，我始终把它当做理想中的独立世界——而它也是最接近独立书店形态的。
"We have always thought of this as the ideal independent world -- and it is the closest thing to an independent bookstore," Mr. Liu told Upload News.
”截止2月24日，1200bookshop的总店仍然没有恢复24小时营业，还有1家仍然在闭店中。
As of February 24, 1,200 bookshop stores were still open 24 hours a day and one was still closed.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一家24小时书店疫情下的紧急自救。
An emergency rescue in a 24-hour bookstore outbreak.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "一家24小时书店疫情下的紧急自救";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; in a 24-hour bookshop.
var msg_desc = "广州第一家24小时不打烊的书店，第一次在夜晚熄了灯。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Guangzhou's first 24-hour, closed bookstore turned off its lights at night.
脆弱的实体书店行业，也将迎来生存危机。
Fragile physical bookstore industry, will also usher in an existential crisis.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
