韩国发布最高级别预警，意大利上百人确诊11市封城。
South Korea issued the highest alert, Italy hundreds of people diagnosed 11 city closed.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
日本街头 图片来源：共同社“ 全球新冠肺炎疫情播报，持续更新。
Japanese street picture source: Kyodo "the world's new crown pneumonia broadcast, continuously updated."
”（本文持续更新中，点击左下角阅读原文，实时跟踪国际疫情动态。
(This article is continuously updated by clicking on the lower left corner to read the original text to track the international epidemic in real time.
文中段首所示时间为本文更新时间。
The time shown at the beginning of the middle paragraph is for this article.
）意大利0800【意大利累计确诊157例新冠肺炎，累计3人死亡】人民日报微博消息，截至当地时间24日零时，意大利累计确诊157例新冠病毒肺炎感染病例，2人治愈出院，新增1例死亡病例，累计3例死亡病例。
Italy confirmed 157 new cases of pneumonia and three deaths, the People's Daily Weibo reported Thursday, with 157 confirmed cases of pneumonia, 2 cured, 1 new death and 3 cumulative deaths in Italy.
目前，意大利北部11个市镇封城隔离，违反防疫要求者将面临最高三个月刑期或最高206欧元的罚款。
At present, 11 northern Italian municipalities are isolated, and violators face up to three months in prison or a fine of up to 206 euros.
意大利北部多个城市停课，同时取消了包括狂欢节、足球赛等一系列活动。
Several cities in northern Italy have suspended classes and cancelled a series of events, including carnival and football.
0800【意大利受疫情影响足球赛事延期，威尼斯狂欢节叫停】中新网消息，据欧联通讯社报道，受新冠肺炎病毒疫情影响，意大利足球甲级联赛23日的4场赛事已被迫延期，国际米兰队原定下周的欧霸赛事也充满了变数。
Italy's Soccer Tournament has been postponed to a later date, the European Union news agency reported. Four matches of Italy's Serie A soccer tournament have been postponed due to the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia virus, and Inter Milan's Europa League scheduled for next week is fraught with uncertainty, according to Euronews.
威尼斯狂欢节最后几天的活动也因疫情蔓延被叫停。
Events in the final days of the Venice Carnival were also halted by the epidemic.
伊朗0800【伊朗确诊43例新冠肺炎确诊病例，其中8例死亡】央视新闻消息，当地时间23日，伊朗卫生部公共关系与信息中心主任贾汗普尔接受伊朗国家电视台采访时表示，近日上千名有流感和感冒症状的患者前往医院就医。
Iran confirmed 43 cases of pneumonia, 8 of them fatal CCTV news, said Sunday in an interview with Iran's state television network Jahanpur, director of the Public Relations and Information Center of the Ministry of Health.
截至当地时间23日中午12:00，伊朗共确诊新冠肺炎患者43例，其中8例死亡。
As of 12: 00 noon local time, Iran had confirmed 43 cases of New Crown Pneumonia, 8 of which died.
为应对疫情，伊朗已成立抗击新型冠状病毒特别委员会，并采取包括10个省份在内的大中小学及教育机构停课、取消近期体育赛事等措施。
In response to the outbreak, Iran has set up a special committee to combat the new coronavirus and has taken measures such as suspending schools, universities and educational institutions, including 10 provinces, and cancelling recent sports events.
伊朗卫生部将于当地时间每天中午12时左右更新确诊数据。
The Ministry of Health will update the confirmed data at around 12 noon local time each day.
韩国0800【韩国发布新冠疫情最高级别“严重”预警】韩联社消息，韩国政府23日正式发布新冠肺炎疫情最高级别“严重”预警，并设中央灾难安全对策本部，加大防疫力度。
ROK (Reuters) - South Korea on Wednesday issued a top-level "severe" alert for the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, setting up the central disaster safety response headquarters to step up epidemic prevention, the agency said.
这是韩国政府继2009年甲型H1N1流感后时隔11年再次发布最高级别的传染病预警。
This was the second highest-level infectious disease alert issued by the Korean Government 11 years after the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic.
韩国传染病预警级从低到高分为四个阶段，分别是关注、注意、警惕、严重。
The early warning level of infectious diseases in Korea is divided into four stages: attention, attention, vigilance and severity.
在发布“严重”预警之后，政府可采取最高级别的应对措施，包括下令各级学校停课、禁止集体活动等。
After issuing a "serious" warning, the government could respond at the highest level, including ordering schools to suspend classes at all levels and banning group activities.
0800【韩国累计确诊602例6人不治，最小感染者仅16个月】央视新闻消息，据韩国卫生部门，截至当地时间23日16时，韩国累计确诊新型冠状病毒感染者602人；另据消息，23日晚，死亡总数升至6人。
South Korean health ministry said Wednesday that 602 people had been diagnosed with the new type of coronary virus, and the death toll rose to 6 on the night of May 23.
此外，韩国一名出生16个月的女婴23日被确诊感染新型冠状病毒，为韩国已确诊的最小感染者。
In addition, a 16-month-old baby girl was diagnosed with the new coronavirus on the 23rd, the smallest confirmed infection in South Korea.
0800【韩国一医院精神科发生聚集传染，102人中99人确诊】新华社23日消息，除确诊329人的“新天地”大邱教会以外，位于庆尚北道的清道大南医院也成为“重灾区”。
0800 A conglomerate of 102 people confirmed in a psychiatric hospital in South KoreaXinhua news agency said Wednesday that in addition to 329 people diagnosed in the "Xintiandi" Daegu Church, Qingshan North Road, the Ching Nan Hospital has also become a "serious disaster area.
据韩国媒体报道，与该医院相关的新冠肺炎确诊患者为111人，其中3人死亡。
South Korean media reported 111 new cases of pneumonia linked to the hospital, including three deaths.
清道大南医院是一家主要针对老年疾病的综合医院，住院患者以老年人居多。
Grand South Hospital on Qingdao is a general hospital for the elderly, with the majority of hospitalized patients.
该医院精神科住院楼栋多为多人间并采取封闭式管理，共102名住院病人，99人确诊。
The hospital's psychiatric inpatient building, which is multi-room and closed-ended, has 102 inpatients and 99 patients diagnosed.
英国0800【英国确认4名从“钻石公主”号回英人员感染，总计13人确诊】央视新闻消息，英国英格兰首席医疗官员当地时间23日宣布，从“钻石公主”号撤回的人员中有4人被确认感染了新型冠状病毒；加上此前英国曾经确认的病例，英国新冠肺炎确诊病例总共达到13例。
Britain confirmed four confirmed cases of coronavirus among those withdrawn from the Princess Diamonds, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 13, the country's chief medical officer said on Wednesday.
而此前感染的9名患者中，有8例已经于数日前治愈出院。
Eight of the nine previously infected patients were cured a few days ago.
新确诊的这4名患者是周六从日本返回英国的。
The four newly diagnosed patients returned to the UK from Japan on Saturday.
据悉，有30名英国公民和2名爱尔兰人从日本返回后，在威勒尔的亚罗公园医院开始进行为期两周的隔离观察。
Thirty British citizens and two Irish citizens returned from Japan for a two-week quarantine at Arrow Park Hospital in Willem.
目前四名患者已经被从亚罗公园医院转送到英国公共卫生部门的感染中心接受治疗。
Four patients have been transferred from Arrow Park Hospital to the Infection Centre of the British Public Health Department for treatment.
德国0800【德国累计16例新冠肺炎病例，已经治愈14例】央视新闻消息，据德国《世界报》援引巴伐利亚州施瓦宾医院的消息，此前该医院收治的14例新冠肺炎患者已有12例治愈出院，加上此前法兰克福地区治愈出院的另外2例病患，德国16例新冠肺炎感染病例中，已有14例治愈出院。
BERLIN (Reuters) - The German newspaper Le Monde quoted Schwabin Hospital in Bavaria, Germany, as saying 12 of the 14 cases of new crowbar pneumonia had been cured, along with two others from Frankfurt, and 14 of the 16 cases of new crown pneumonia in Germany had been cured.
剩余两名患者目前病情稳定，正在接受治疗。
The remaining two patients are in stable condition and are receiving treatment.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国发布最高级别预警，意大利上百人确诊11市封城。
South Korea issued the highest alert, Italy hundreds of people diagnosed 11 city closed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国发布最高级别预警，意大利上百人确诊11市封城";。
var msg _ title = & quot; South Korea issued its highest-level warning, and hundreds of Italians were diagnosed with 11 city closures;;
var msg_desc = "全球新冠肺炎疫情播报，持续更新。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Global Newly Crowded Pneumonia broadcast, continuously updated.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
