“潘秀荷，你不要命了！”。
Pansy, you are dying!
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
实习生 陈媛媛 澎湃新闻记者 任雾李阳阳还没回过神来。
Chen Yuanyuan, an intern, had no recollection of Liu Yangyang, a journalist.
短短十余日，他毫无预料地成为逃离武汉的一员，更没想到父母感染上新冠肺炎，卷入疫情风波之中。
Just over a decade, he unexpectedly became a member of the escape from Wuhan, not to mention parents infected with the new crown pneumonia, involved in the storm.
“儿子，帮爸打个120吧……”2月9日，高烧十一天后，从不求人的李阳阳父亲李德玉，用气若游丝般的声音在电话里向儿子恳求道。
"Son, give Dad a 120......" Feb. 9, 11 days after a high fever, Li Deyu, Li Yang's father, asked his son in an angry voice.
30岁的李阳阳很平静地挂了电话，他心里一阵难受。
Li Yangyang, 30, calmly hung up the phone and felt a pain in his heart.
他已经打了各种电话，但是没有用，尽管父亲的CT显示肺部感染，但两次核酸检测都是阴性，不满足收治条件。
He had made various calls, but to no avail, and although his father's CT showed a lung infection, both nucleic acid tests were negative and did not meet the admission requirements.
此时父亲的喘气声已经十分粗重，听着声音，他似乎能看到父亲艰难起落的胸膛。
By this time his father's breaths were so thick that he seemed to see his father's chest as he struggled to rise and fall.
2月8日，中央指导组要求“应收尽收，刻不容缓”。
Feb. 8, the Central Steering Group asked "receivable, no delay."
紧接着，2月12日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎治疗（试行第五版）》，其中写明疑似病例只要具有肺炎影像学特征者，为临床诊断病例。
Immediately afterwards, on February 12, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Infection Treatment for Pneumonia (Trial Version 5)," which states that suspected cases with imaging features of pneumonia are clinically diagnosed.
这意味着只要CT符合症状，就按确诊病例收治。
This means that as long as the CT is symptomatic, it is treated as a confirmed case.
恰逢其时，李阳阳父母被收治了，他从没想过，有一天会因为父母都住进了病房而感到安心。
At the right time, Li's parents were admitted to hospital, and he never thought he would be relieved that his parents were in the hospital room one day.
以下是李阳阳的口述“没敢相信武汉封城了”直到火车向前奔去，我都没敢相信武汉封城了。
The following is Li Yangyang's dictum that Wuhan could not be believed. Until the train ran ahead, I dared not believe the city of Wuhan.
1月26日，航拍武汉城市道路。
January 26, aerial photograph Wuhan city road.
1月18日，我从单位回了家，计划在家待五天。
January 18, I returned home from work, planning to stay at home for five days.
20日的傍晚，我们家一个在医院做护士的亲戚来串门，聊天时她谈到了疫情，说现在这个新冠肺炎传染性极强。
On the evening of the 20th, a relative of my family who worked as a nurse in the hospital came to talk about the outbreak and said the new crown pneumonia was extremely contagious.
她听说很多医院的工作人员因为没有做好防护被感染了，而且医院人满为患，去看病弄不好要交叉传染。
She heard that many hospital workers had been infected because they were not well protected, and hospitals were overcrowded with patients who might have to cross-infect.
她这么一说，我们一家人都很紧张，气氛一下子凝重了。
When she said this, we were all very nervous and the atmosphere was heavy.
一月初，我和爸说过这事，他当时不屑一顾。
In early January, when I told Dad about it, he didn't care.
这时，亲戚在讲，他沉着脸，不说话。
At this time, the relatives are talking, he calm face, do not speak.
我爸有点大男子主义，认准自己的一套理，不服软。
My father has a little male chauvinism, recognize his own set of reasoning, not soft.
他不说话，我就知道他已经听进去了。
He said nothing, and I knew he had heard it.
第二天一早，我和爸妈一起出去买菜，准备中午提前吃个年夜饭。
The next morning, my parents and I went out to buy vegetables, ready to have lunch in advance.
超市出来后，我们在边上的药店买了些医用口罩。
After the supermarket came out, we bought some medical masks at the drugstore next to us.
从那时起，我就和家人约定，以后不管去哪儿，都要戴口罩。
From then on, I made an agreement with my family to wear masks wherever I went.
1月22日，我和父母把我的妻儿送回了娘家。
On January 22, my parents and I returned my wife and children to our mother's house.
我和妻子2018年结婚，儿子现在8个月大，妻子平时和我父母一起生活。
My wife and I were married in 2018, my son is now eight months old, and my wife lives with my parents.
当时主要是考虑到疫情，还想着我今年没法在家过年，她回娘家的话，那里亲戚多，小孩照顾不来，也能有人搭把手。
It was mainly because of the outbreak of disease, but also think that I can not spend the New Year at home this year, she returned home, there are many relatives, children can not take care of, can be someone to help.
一大早，我爸开车直接走高速，没几个小时就到了。
Early in the morning, my father drove straight down the freeway and arrived in a few hours.
每次过收费站，我们都会戴好口罩。
We wear masks every time we pass the tollbooth.
中午，我们留岳母这吃了饭。
At noon, we left our mother-in-law for dinner.
当天晚上，我们回了武汉，我怕家里的口罩不够用，又跟爸跑出去买。
That night, we returned to Wuhan, I am afraid the family mask is not enough, and ran out with Dad to buy.
当时，我们找了好几家店，都说没了，好不容易找到了一家店，买了10个N95，19块8一个。
At that time, we looked for several shops, all said no, hard to find a shop, bought 10 N95, 19, 8.
23日早上，我起床的时候，朋友给我发了一些封城的消息。
On the morning of the 23rd, when I got up, my friends sent me some news of the city's closure.
我问了爸，他不相信。
I asked Dad. He didn't believe me.
直到我走进了地铁站，还是不确定武汉是否封城了。
Until I walked into the subway station, is still not sure whether Wuhan closed the city.
那天的地铁车厢很安静。
The subway car was quiet that day.
绝大部分人都戴着口罩，避开脸，往人少的地方躲。
Most people wear masks, avoid their faces and hide in places where there are few people.
地铁乘了大半个小时，无形之中的紧张感压得人喘不过气来，谁也不知道什么时候病毒就在自己身边，恨不得列车下一秒就到站。
The subway took the majority of the hour, the tension is overwhelming, no one knows when the virus on their side, would like the next second on the train.
到了汉口火车站，检票口没多少人，站得零零散散的。
Arriving at Hankou railway station, there were not many people at the ticket gates, standing here and there.
我没看到工作人员，连安检也没有，检票要人脸识别，我只能憋着气，拉下口罩，迅速过了安检。
I did not see the staff, even security check, check VIP face recognition, I had to suffocate, pull down the mask, quickly past security.
进站后，我看了看时间，八点整，离开车还有一个半小时。
When I got into the station, I looked at the time. It was eight o'clock sharp. It was an hour and a half away.
我找到进站口后，那里的人多得不知道说什么好了，我没敢在那停留，躲到了工作人员通道里。
When I got to the entrance, there were so many people there that I didn't dare stay there and hide in the staff passageway.
已经有五个人在这了，但是大家分得很开，至少隔着七八米。
There are already five people here, but everyone is very open, at least seven or eight meters apart.
眼前的一切让我难以置信，我压根没来得及反应，便卷入了人潮。
I couldn't believe what was going on. I was caught in a rush of people before I could react.
缓过气后，我马上给家里头打了电话，说了下我看到的情况，然后叮嘱他们千万不要出门。
As soon as I recovered, I telephoned the head of the house, said what I had seen, and told them never to go out.
检票上车的时候，我虽然戴着N95口罩，还是不放心，右手提着行李，拿着身份证，左手仍要捏紧鼻子，因为我总感觉鼻梁处还是有间隙，怕没封紧。
Although I was wearing the N95 mask when I got on the bus, I was still worried. I was carrying my luggage in my right hand, holding my ID card and clenching my nose in my left hand.
当时一心想着快点上车，不敢东张西望。
I was so anxious to get on the bus that I dared not look around.
动车上的人都戴着口罩，没人说话，我的口罩也一直没敢摘下来。
The occupants of the vehicle were wearing masks, no one spoke, and my mask had not been removed.
虽然我带了泡面，也带了水杯，但我不敢喝，不敢吃。
Although I brought bubble noodles, but also brought a cup of water, but I dare not drink, dare not eat.
也有少数人接水泡面，但即便闻着泡面的香味，我的胃饿得打滚儿，我的理智还是一个劲地吹哨命令，千万不能吃，一刻也不能摘下口罩。
There were a few people who picked up the foam, but even when I smelled the smell of the noodles, my stomach was so hungry that my mind kept whistling and never eating or taking off my mask for a moment.
一到达所在地，我又换乘地铁到单位，整个过程太像逃命了。
As soon as I arrived, I took the subway to work. The whole process was too much like running for my life.
到单位后，我就被隔离了，我也巴不得自己被隔离，真的怕自己携带了病毒。
Once at work, I was quarantined, and I wanted to be quarantined, really afraid I was carrying the virus.
不夸张地说，这一整天，我都感觉自己是个装在套子里的人，不想出来。
It's no exaggeration to say that I've felt like a man in a condom all day and I don't want to come out.
之后很快，单位停止一切探亲休假事宜。
Soon thereafter, the unit ceased all family visit leave matters.
本来打算年初四请年假回去，这下我回不了家了。
I was going to ask for annual leave early in the year, and now I can't go home.
气得直喊我妈名字过年那几天，我妈本来很想去外婆家吃年夜饭，但是外婆说现在形势不太好，不让她过去。
My mother wanted to go to grandma's house for Chinese New Year's Eve, but Grandma said it was not so good to let her go.
父母给故去的老人烧了纸，还去了趟超市，就在家里过了年。
His parents burned paper for the deceased and went to the supermarket, where they spent the next year.
我在隔离室的第七天，突然得知爸发烧了。
On the seventh day of the isolation room, I learned that Dad had a fever.
我虽然有点紧张，但往好的方面想，可能是受凉了。
I'm a little nervous, but at the best of it, I think it might be a cold.
爸跑药店买了些头孢之类的药，吃下去后，第二天体温降下来一些，37度多。
Dad went to the drugstore and bought some medicine, such as cefe. After eating it, the temperature came down a little the next day, more than 37 degrees.
看到体温降下来后，我们的疑虑差不多打消了。
Our doubts were almost dispelled when we saw the temperature come down.
结果没想到，2月1日他又烧回38度多。
Unexpectedly, he burned back more than 38 degrees on February 1.
那天早上，爸去了医院，当时照了CT没有问题，所以医生只当作普通发烧来治，开了退烧药，爸就回来了。
That morning, father went to the hospital, then took a CT no problem, so the doctor only treated as a common fever, prescribed antipyretics, Dad came back.
但是后来几天，爸的烧一直没退下来。
But for the next few days, Dad's fever didn't recede.
2月2日的时候，妈也烧起来了，这时我才真的紧张了，我怕他们得新冠肺炎，但还是略带侥幸地想，可能是会传染的病毒性感冒。
On February 2, Mom started burning too, and I was really nervous. I was afraid they might have pneumonia, but I still thought, with a slight fluke, that it might be a contagious viral cold.
隔天一早，爸妈决定一起去医院。
The next morning, my parents decided to go to the hospital together.
我听他们说要去医院，我心里就焦急得麻乱。
When I heard them say I was going to the hospital, I was in a panic.
我知道现在医院的患者特别多，去那边很危险。
I know there are so many patients in the hospital now. It's dangerous to go there.
可是没办法啊，他们俩都不舒服了，医院还是得去。
But there was no way. They were both sick and the hospital had to go.
他们一到医院，我就想知道他们怎么样了，没办法在身边盯着，只能视频看一看。
As soon as they got to the hospital, I wanted to know what was wrong with them. I couldn't keep an eye on them.
当时我爸在排队，我妈坐在边上等。
My dad was in line, and my mom was waiting by the side.
视频一开，我刚看到我妈，就气了，直接喊她名字，我说：“潘秀荷，你不要命了！只戴一层口罩。
As soon as I opened the video, I just saw my mother, angry, directly called her name, I said: "Pan Xiuho, you are deadly! Only wearing a mask.
你看你的口罩脱到鼻孔了，戴了跟没戴一样。
You see your mask has come out of your nostrils, just like you did not wear it.
”我妈不认真和我说话，头动来动去，口罩和鼻子间的缝隙很大。
"My mother didn't talk to me seriously and her head moved. There was a big gap between the mask and her nose.
她的性子大大咧咧的，有时候话不说重，她好像不会放在心上，后面她嫌我啰嗦就戴起来了。
She is careless and sometimes she doesn't say anything serious. She doesn't seem to take it to heart. She wears it after me for being so verbose.
他们搞了一整天，中午都没吃饭，下午拿到了CT，我妈的CT没问题，爸的CT显示：双肺感染，考虑病毒性肺炎。
They worked all day, didn't eat lunch, got CT in the afternoon, my mother's CT is no problem, Dad's CT showed: two lung infections, consider viral pneumonia.
而核酸检测结果要过一天才能出来。
And the nucleic acid test results will come out in a day.
2月5日，我爸的核酸检测结果出来了，是阴性。
On Feb. 5, my dad's nucleic acid test came out, negative.
当时很高兴啊，松了一口气，我们觉得这样可以说明爸没被感染。
Well, I was so happy and relieved, And we thought it would mean dad wasn't infected.
一家人都很庆幸。
The whole family is lucky.
可是另一边，爸的病情明显恶化了。
But on the other side, Dad's condition was clearly deteriorating.
视频的时间越来越短，他都不愿意和我说话，呼吸也变得吃力起来。
Video time is getting shorter and shorter, he does not want to talk to me, breathing has become difficult.
好几次，我把视频电话拨过去，看不到他太多的面部表情，他人缩在被窝里，接通了就把手机放在一边。
Several times, I dialed the video and couldn't see his face. He huddled under the bedclothes and put his phone aside when he reached it.
他的面色灰灰的，半合着眼睛，他说他很冷。
His face was grey, his eyes half closed, and he said he was cold.
爸又做了第二次核酸检测，还用了退烧栓，体温正常以后，吃了一大盘饺子。
Dad did a second nucleic acid test, but also used a fever thrombolysis, normal temperature, ate a large plate of dumplings.
8号早上，我爸烧到了39度，他又吃了退烧栓，可是这次烧虽然降下来了，但是呼吸愈发费力。
On the morning of the 8th, my father burned to 39 degrees, and he had a fever-relieving hydrant, but the fever came down, but his breathing became more and more demanding.
但是没办法，不能打针看病，他就经常在我们家饭厅里的药箱里，瞎折腾找药吃。
But there was no way to see the doctor, he often in our dining room in the medicine box, toss around for medicine.
况且他准备开车去医院再看看，不吃的话，车都不知道怎么开了。
Besides, he is going to drive to the hospital and look at it again. If he doesn't eat it, he won't know how to drive.
开车到了武汉市第三医院，我爸已经气都喘不过来了。
Driving to Wuhan Third Hospital, my father was out of breath.
医生看了他的CT，说他就是新型冠状病毒，但是现在没有床位。
The doctor looked at his CT and said he was the new coronavirus, but there was no bed available.
让他先上报社区弄床位，他还是只能硬着头皮开车回家。
Having him report to the community first, he had to drive home with a vengeance.
李阳阳父亲第三次去医院的CT检查报告单。
The CT examination report card that Li Yangyang father goes to hospital for the third time.
这趟回来后，我爸变得很安静。
After this trip, my dad became very quiet.
之前，还会跟我妈掐嘴，自己瞎折腾找药吃，现在什么都不做了，基本窝在被子里。
Before, I would have pinched my mother and picked my own medicine, and now I'm doing nothing, basically under the covers.
我们问他体温多少，他也不告诉，妈妈送进去的饭，他也几乎没动过。
We asked him how much his temperature was, and he would not tell him that his mother had sent him in and that he had hardly touched it.
我感觉我爸去了三趟医院，他知道现在看个病有多难，跟我们说也帮不上忙，他不抱希望了……爸求我帮忙叫救护车2月9日，爸的第二次核酸检测结果出来了——阴性。
I felt like my dad had been to the hospital three times, and he knew how hard it was to see him now, and that he couldn't help us, he was hopeless... Dad begged me to call an ambulance and on February 9, Dad's second nucleic acid test came out negative.
社区说，目前阴性还是没办法住院治疗。
The community says there is still no way to treat the patient who is negative.
当我知道只有阳性才能得到救治时，又看爸的病一天天严重起来，却无法去打针吃药，我巴不得他是阳性，很难受。
When I know that only the positive can be treated, and see that Dad's illness serious day by day, but can not go to the injection to take medicine, I would like to be a positive, very uncomfortable.
那时，妈打电话过来，着急地说爸的情况很糟糕了，每天叫他也不应。
At that time, my mother called, anxiously said that Dad's situation is very bad, every day should not call him.
我妈一共给爸煮了5个饺子，他就吃了一个，掰了四瓣橘子过去，只吃了半片。
My mother made five dumplings for Dad. He ate one, broke off four pieces of oranges and ate only half of them.
晚上8点，爸主动给我打了电话，他的声音很虚弱，喘气非常困难了，他说：“儿子，帮爸叫个120吧……”爸不知道在他说之前，我已经打了三个了，但是没用。
At 8 p.m., Dad volunteered to call me. His voice was weak and he was gasping hard. He said, "Son, please call Dad 120..." Dad didn't know that before he said it, I had already hit three, but it didn't work.
我可以想到爸有多难受，我从来没听他这样，哀求似的说过话。
I could think of how much Dad was feeling. I'd never heard him say anything like that.
我心痛，当时特别想回家，想着在这里打120还得多一个区号。
I was so heartbroken that I wanted to go home so much that I had to call 120 here with an extra area code.
我很平静地挂了电话，心里一阵难受，但还是疯狂地打各种电话，求社区胡书记。
I calmly hung up the phone, a pain in my heart, but still frantically made all kinds of phone calls, asking the community secretary Hu.
爸的情况胡书记心里一清二楚，她也着急，因为我爸的事哭了好几场，打了紧急报告上去，区里又把名字给划掉了。
Dad's case Secretary Hu made no mistake. She worried too, because my father cried several times, made an urgent report, and the district scratched out his name.
因为爸的核酸检测不符合，表面看来症状也不够重。
Because dad's nucleic acid test doesn't match, and the symptoms don't look serious enough.
我知道我爸这种两阴的情况，能进方舱医院就已经算破格了。
I know my father this kind of Yin situation, can enter the square cabin hospital already counted breaking the mark.
所以我当时和胡书记说，我知道病床紧张，我不奢求能住院，只要能打针把体温降下来就行，先得把命保住啊。
So I told Secretary Hu that I knew my hospital bed was tight and I didn't expect to be hospitalized, so long as I could get an injection to keep my temperature down, I had to save my life.
那天很晚了，胡书记还在帮忙联系，她说今晚不睡了，陪你一起等。
Later that day, Secretary Hu is still helping to contact, she said not to sleep tonight, with you to wait.
后面终于联系到区里，第二天可以送方舱医院。
Finally contact with the district, the next day can be sent to the cabin hospital.
心里还是比较高兴，但是一想到我爸的呼吸十分衰微了，我又深怕他挨不过这一晚，我和妈说：“如果半夜起来的话，去看一下爸吧。
My mom and I said, "If you wake up in the middle of the night, why don't you go see Dad
”我真的怕他一睡不醒。
I was really afraid that he would not wake up.
武昌方舱医院内部澎湃新闻记者 赵思维 图第二天将近中午，区里面还是没有消息，我们知道没指望了。
Wuchang square cabin hospital internal Peng journalist Zhao thinking map the next day near noon, there is still no news inside the district, we know no hope.
好在很快，胡书记直接把我爸送到了武汉大学人民医院东院。
Luckily, Secretary Hu sent my father directly to the East Hospital of Wuhan University.
医院看我爸的情况很危急，直接收治了。
The hospital looked at my dad in a critical condition and admitted him directly.
我妈把爸送到了医院，自己做完检查回到家里，已经五点多了。
My mother took Dad to the hospital and went home after her examination. It was over five o'clock.
她发来了视频通话，和我说今天在医院忙了什么，做了CT，上面写着：左肺感染性病变。
She sent me a video call and told me what she was doing at the hospital today, with a CT scan that said: Left lung infectious disease.
还弄了核酸检测，说到这里，我能感觉到妈和我一样，都很怕她的核酸检测会是阴性。
And I got a nucleic acid test, And here, I can feel Mom, like me, Afraid that her nucleic acid test will be negative.
把父亲送到医院后，李阳阳母亲做了CT检查。
After taking his father to the hospital, Li Yangyang's mother had a CT examination.
她还说，社区准备第二天把她送隔离点去，要她现在把爸的衣服被子收拾出来烧掉……说到自己还有很多很多事情要做的时候，她流泪了。
She also said that the community was going to send her to the quarantine site the next day and told her to get Dad's clothes and clothes out and burn them... and she cried when she said she had so many things to do.
只是几秒的时间，她的泪水溢出眼角后，又很快提起袖子把眼泪抹掉了。
It was only a few seconds before her tears overflowed the corners of her eyes and quickly rolled up her sleeves and wiped away the tears.
一个小时后，我又视频找她，她说没胃口吃饭。
An hour later, I saw her again, and she said she had no appetite.
我只能鼓励她，爸爸不在身边，你要自己照顾好自己，饭一定要多吃，一个人一定要撑住，还要一起等爸出院。
I can only encourage her, Dad is not around, you have to take care of yourself, meals must be more to eat, a person must support, and together we have to wait for Dad to leave hospital.
妈点了点头。
Mother nodded her head.
睡前，我们再视频的时候，她说把之前我给她买的猪肉，炒青椒一起吃了，她硬是吃了很多。
Before going to bed, we video again, she said before I bought her pork, fried green pepper to eat together, she ate a lot.
盼着回家做饭2月11日，凌晨两点，我妈提着两个塑料袋子，被送到了隔离点。
Looking Forward to Cooking Feb. 11, my mother was taken to the quarantine point with two plastic bags in her hand.
我妈进隔离点不到十个小时，医院那边打电话给我妈，说爸进入了危症，在用呼吸机供氧，医生已经把最后一道药给爸注射了。
My mother was in quarantine less than 10 hours later, and the hospital called my mother and said Dad was in a critical condition, supplying oxygen on a ventilator, and the doctor had given Dad the last dose.
我妈也没听清是什么药，只知道这是最后的希望。
My mother didn't hear what the medicine was, only she knew it was the last hope.
医护工作人员及患者进出隔离的宾馆大楼都要进行消毒作业。
Medical staff and patients in and out of the isolated hotel buildings are to be disinfected operations.
妈妈跟我说这话的时候，她很想哭，但是她忍着，我也忍着，我看她的眼眶已经红了。
When Mom said this to me, she wanted to cry, but she resisted, and so did I. I saw that her eyes were red.
我说，我们现在唯一要做的就是相信爸能挺过去，要对爸有信心。
I said the only thing we have to do now is trust Dad to make it through and have faith in him.
然后妈也在那里说，爸是个好人，这辈子没做过坏事，应该保佑他度过这次难关……电话挂断后，我哭了好几场。
And then Mom said, Dad's a good guy, and I didn't do anything bad in his life, and I should have blessed him through this... After the phone hung up, I cried several times.
但没办法，电话还是得一个一个接着打，我想尽快把妈弄去医院，不能让她再送晚了。
But I had to call one after another. I wanted to get Mom to the hospital as soon as possible. I couldn't let her be late again.
过了几个小时，我的妻子听到消息打电话过来，她哭得很崩溃，一直怪自己，她说当时要是强硬点，把父母留在（娘家）武穴，就不会像现在这样了。
A few hours later, my wife heard the news. She cried herself out and blamed herself. She said that if she had been harder, she would have left her parents in the cave.
第二天，我给领导打口头报告说，我想回家，想陪父母度过这一关。
The next day, I gave an oral report to the leader that I wanted to go home and stay with my parents through this.
我作为儿子，什么都不怕，我根本不怕病毒……回想当时说话的形景，我有点小孩耍性子的感觉。
As a son, I'm not afraid of anything, I'm not afraid of the virus... Looking back on the way I talked, I felt a little bit of a child.
不过领导也理解，他和我分析了一通。
But the leader also understood, he and I analyzed a connection.
我知道我回去了，帮不上什么忙，能做的很有限。
I know I'm back. There's nothing I can do. There's only so much I can do.
另外我也担心要是我们三个有什么事，我的妻子和小孩就真的没有依靠了。
And I'm worried that if anything happens to the three of us, my wife and kids really won't be there.
幸而没多久，爸爸醒来了，他给我妻子和妈发了信息，唯独没给我发。
Fortunately, not long after, Dad woke up and sent messages to my wife and mother, but not to me.
我们当时都很吃惊，还疑心是不是谁用他的手机发的，所以我想着视频看看爸。
We were all surprised and wondering if anyone had used his cell phone, so I wanted to see Dad on video.
要按键通话的时候，我挺紧张的。
I was nervous when I tried to push the button.
视频一接通，看到爸爸的头靠在白色的枕头上，呼吸面罩盖在爸的口鼻上，他的面容有些微起色，精神还可以，这时我的心才踏实了。
Once the video was on, I was relieved to see my father's head resting on a white pillow, his breath mask resting on his mouth and nose, his face slightly improved and his spirit was okay.
但是傍晚的时候，我想着他应该吃饭了，给他拨了个视频，他的状态又不好了。
But in the evening, I thought he should be eating, and dialed him a video, and he was in a bad shape.
他的两腮有点红，眼睛眯着，看起来有些乏力。
His cheeks were a little red, his eyes narrowed, and he looked weak.
我不忍心让他说话，让他听我说话点头摇手就行。
I can't bear to let him talk and let him listen to me nod and shake hands.
我记得，我问他，现在感觉怎么样了？他摇了摇头；嘱咐他，要多吃饭，强迫自己吃，他点了点头。
I remember, I asked him, how did he feel now? He shook his head; he told him to eat more, to force himself to eat, and he nodded.
再说几句，他就摇手了，意思是不说了，要挂了。
A few more words, and he shook his hand, meaning to say no, to hang up.
2月13日，社区接到通知，只要CT符合症状，就可以收治，所以我妈也很快住院了。
On 13 February, the community was informed that as long as the CT was symptomatic, it could be admitted, so my mother was hospitalized quickly.
尽管父母都有了病床，我心里确实安心了不少。
Even though my parents had beds, I was really relieved.
这几天，父母的情况都还算稳定，爸虽然还在重症之中，但是恢复一些了，他现在跟我视频，都会尽量坐起来，还有一次，甚至把面罩扒起来，给我说了几句。
These days, my parents are stable, Dad is still in serious condition, but recovered a little, he now video with me, will try to sit up, and even on one occasion, the mask picked up, I said a few words.
我能感到他愿意和我多说些话，眼神总是停留在我脸上。
I could feel that he was willing to talk to me more, and his eyes were always on my face.
妈也还可以，就是比较嗜睡，沾着枕头就睡着了。
Mom can also, is more sleepy, touched the pillow and fell asleep.
现在我就盼着疫情快点过去，回去看看爸妈，看看妻子和儿子，我想给他们做个饭。
Now I'm looking forward to the epidemic as soon as possible. Go back to see my parents, my wife and my son. I want to cook for them.
以前每次回来我都会给他们做，邻居会说，别人儿子回家被当成宝，你们儿子回来怎么干这干那的。
I used to do it for them every time I came back. Neighbors would say that someone else's son came home as a treasure.
其实能为他们做饭，我心里挺美的。
In fact, I can cook for them, my heart pretty beautiful.
（文中受访对象为化名）戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑 周玉华推荐阅读。
Wee Chow, PhD, editor of this PhD, recommended the reading of the Dell Computerized Dell Computers for New-style Cases of Coronavirus Infection.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“潘秀荷，你不要命了！”。
Pansy, you are dying!
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“潘秀荷，你不要命了！”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "Pan Xiuho, you are dead!" & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我在异地隔离，遥望武汉感染的父母";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I was isolated and looked at Wuhan's infected parents & quot;;.
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '法医刘良详述尸检经过，预计10天内出结论',。
Liang Liu, a forensic physician who gave details of the autopsy, expects conclusions and findings to be made within 10 days.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
