每一位在这个冬天离开的人，都曾热气腾腾地活过。
Everyone who leaves this winter has lived a very hot life.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
The following article comes from 湃客工坊。
The following article comes from the guest house.
Author 镜相工作室。
Author Mirror Studio.
湃客工坊。
Pai guest workshop.
澎湃新闻“湃客”创作者平台 | 更宽广的世界，更丰饶的人生。
Pai news "roar guest" creator platform & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; The Broader World, More Rich Life.
澎湃新闻 湃客镜相今天，距武汉封城整整一个月。
The roar of the news roar mirror phase today, the whole month from the closure of Wuhan.
1月23日，这座千万级人口的码头城市落入漩涡，从四面楚歌到八方驰援，无数的人合力，让局面缓缓扭转。
January 23, this multimillion-level wharf city fell into the whirlpool, from all over the world to help, countless people joined forces to slowly reverse the situation.
短时间内，疫情从武汉蔓延到全国。
In a short time, the epidemic spread from Wuhan to the whole country.
截至2月22日24时，新冠肺炎已造成2442名确诊患者的逝去。
As of 2400 hours on February 22, 2,442 confirmed patients had died as a result of pneumonia.
此外，还有许多因为疫情而离开的人。
In addition, there are many people who left because of the outbreak.
在此，我们试图记录下那些被疫情叫停的人生。
Here, we are trying to document the lives that have been stopped by the epidemic.
他们之中，有的是普通人，有的牺牲于抗疫一线，是医者、志愿者，也有令人痛惜的育人者……透过这些生平掠影，是每一个无比重要的人生。
Some of them are ordinary people, some are dead on the frontlines of the epidemic, doctors, volunteers, and lamentable educators... through these lives, it is a life of unparalleled importance.
仁心在漩涡之中，他们是逆流而上的水滴。
Benevolent hearts in the whirlpool, they are upstream water droplets.
封城之后，武汉市内公交系统也几近中断，医务人员的通勤成了难题。
After the city was closed, the bus system in Wuhan was almost cut off and commuting by medical staff became a problem.
何辉加入了志愿者车队，义务接送医务人员上下班。
He joined the volunteer corps and volunteered to take medical staff to and from work.
他向家人解释，有力出力。
He explained to his family that he was doing a good job.
这符合他一贯善良热情的个性，在整个大家族中，他也是顶梁出头的那一个。
This was in keeping with his usual good-natured and warm personality, and he was the head of the extended family.
家人见他的最后一面是在2月2日，同济医院的门诊，被感染的何辉上了救护车准备转院，他朝家人挥手，显示出冷静与坚强。
His family saw him for the last time on February 2, Tongji Hospital clinic, infected Ho Hui on the ambulance ready to be transferred to the hospital, he waved to his family, showing calm and strong.
3日晚，玉笋山殡仪馆收到同济医院中法新城院区送来的“摆渡人”何辉的遗体，1965年生，死亡证明写着“呼吸系统衰竭”。
On the evening of March 3, the Jasparagus Hill Funeral Home received the remains of He Hui, born in 1965, from the French New Town Hospital in Tongji Hospital. The death certificate said "Respiratory Failure."
许鹏出门前对儿子说，爸爸去打怪兽了。
Xu Peng said to his son before he went out.
梳着帅气的背头，留一撮短须，他是英雄老爸，也是江苏蓝天救援队机动队队长。
With a handsome back and a pinch of whiskers, he is the hero's father and head of the mobile team of Jiangsu Blue Rescue Team.
他曾为阜宁风灾、广元沉船、玉树雪灾甚至缅甸、老挝、可可西里等地执行救援任务。
He was in Fu Ning disaster, Guangyuan shipwreck, Yushu snowstorm even Myanmar, Laos, cocoa and other places to carry out rescue missions.
2月7日起，他在天河机场一处应急仓库负责向各大医院发放来自全球的抗疫捐赠物资。
From February 7, he was in Tianhe Airport emergency warehouse to distribute major hospitals from the world's donated anti-epidemic materials.
2月10日，在运送物资的途中，没有躲过一场意外的车祸。
On 10 February, on the way to deliver supplies, there was no escape from an accidental car accident.
大鹏高飞，魂归蓝天。
Dapeng high flying, soul to the blue sky.
许鹏 （图源：姑苏晚报）2005年，武汉人俞关荣意外丧子，这是他决心成为施救者的缘由。
Xu Peng (Source: Ghoutu Evening News) In 2005, Wuhan resident Yu Guanrong accidentally lost his child, which is why he was determined to be a rescuer.
他爱好冬泳，2010年，发起成立了长江救援队。
He loved winter swimming and in 2010 launched the Changjiang Rescue Team.
这十年，他在长江、汉江、东湖，救起过至少几十名落水者。
Over the past decade, he rescued at least a dozen people from the Yangtze, Han and East lakes.
他是个敬畏生命的人，不抽烟不喝酒，朋友圈签名写着“健康第一”，平时可以在水下憋3分20秒，肺活量惊人。
He was a life-fearing man who didn't smoke, didn't drink, had friends who signed up to say, "Health First," and could hold his lungs for three minutes and 20 seconds.
他的微博取名为“大磉”， “磉”即是柱子底下的石礅，寓意坚固平稳。
His microblogging is called "The Big Picture," "Zai" is the stone post under the post, symbolizing firmness and stability.
因为新冠肺炎，他逝世于2月6日。
He died of pneumonia on February 6.
俞关荣普通人更多的武汉人，他们过着最最普通的生计，每日被琐事占尽精力。
Yu Guanrong more ordinary people in Wuhan, they live the most ordinary livelihood, daily trifles occupied with energy.
冷也好热也好，活着就好。
Cold or hot, just live.
年年如此，这个新年原本也当如此。
And so it has been every year since the New Year began.
1月28日是武汉市民江寿昌的七十大寿。
January 28th marks the 70th birthday of Min Jiang Shouchang in Wuhan City.
那时距武汉封城已经5天，女儿江晓辉还是设法订了个蛋糕，她和父亲生日只差3天，爷俩一同庆生。
Five days after the city was closed in Wuhan, her daughter, Jiang Xiaohui, managed to order a cake. She was only three days away from her father's birthday.
他是一名技术员，后来患了喉癌，挺了过来，转为后勤。
He was a technician who later developed laryngeal cancer, survived and turned back to logistics.
日子满了下来。
The days are over.
自从中风后，他不怎么出门，就待在家里看警匪片、战争片，维持着波澜不惊的晚年。
Since the stroke, he did not go out much, stay at home to watch police movies, war films, maintain a quiet old age.
但人逢寿辰，毕竟是欢欣的一天。
But every birthday, after all, is a happy day.
江晓辉心怀信心，父亲69岁也熬过，70岁生日也过了，一定还有很多时日。
Jiang Xiaohui was confident that his father had survived at the age of 69 and that his 70th birthday was over.
然而三天后，他发起高烧，后来被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Three days later, however, he developed a high fever and was later diagnosed with pneumonia.
2月10日，心跳停止，未曾寿昌。
February 10, the heartbeat stopped, did not Shouchang.
长久以来，林红军在鄱阳街上经营一爿小卖部。
For a long time, the Red Army ran a commissary on Poyang Street.
武汉中心医院的职工大多数是他的老主顾。
Wuhan central hospital staff are mostly his regular customers.
他们习惯去他店里赊账，值夜班时买个夜宵。
They used to go to his store on credit and buy supper while on night shift.
这个黑脸老板，有一张笑眯眯的面孔，爽快地帮忙送货上门，收发快递。
The dark-faced boss, with a smiling face, helped with the door-to-door delivery and courier delivery.
小卖部是他的生意，也是他的住所。
The commissary was his business and his residence.
他守着医院，谁也不知道他是哪天被感染的。
He's guarding the hospital. No one knows when he got infected.
从1月31日起，他倒在一张临时病床，勉强维持着，得不到有效救治。
From 31 January, he collapsed in a temporary hospital bed, barely able to sustain himself and receiving no effective treatment.
一直到2月9日，他才排到一张床位，而当天傍晚，病情恶化，抢救无效。
It was not until 9 February that he was placed in a bed, and by the evening of the same day, his condition had deteriorated and rescue efforts had been ineffective.
为这位没来得及深交的老友，武汉中心医院疼痛科主任蔡毅写道：“我们都是小人物，在这场疫情的洗礼下，默默地付出，默默地承受着生离死别。
"We are all small people," Cai Yi, director of the pain department at Wuhan Central Hospital, wrote for the old friend who had not had enough time to make deep acquaintance.
”邱钧的离去更让亲友无从接受。
"Qiu Jun's departure from the family and friends can not accept.
虽然年过七旬，但一直是健身达人，还曾获得过健美冠军的荣誉。
Although the age of 70, but has been a fitness Talent, has won the honor of the champion bodybuilder.
十几年前，他的老伴过世，因为健身的爱好，老年生活并不寂寥。
More than a decade ago, his wife died, because of a fitness hobby, the elderly life is not lonely.
老爷子的日常，就是到公园和健身房去锻炼，他拥有傲人的肌肉，从不吝于展示，这是他对抗衰老的证明。
His daily routine is to go to parks and gymnasiums to exercise. He has proud muscles and never gives in to show off, which is proof of his resistance to aging.
即使1月23日封城那天，他也按平时习惯，去往公园锻炼。
Even on January 23rd, when the city was closed, he used to go to the park for exercise.
1月24日他开始感到少有的身体异样，11天后确诊新冠肺炎入院。
On January 24 he began to feel a rare abnormality, and 11 days later he was admitted to hospital with pneumonia.
住院3天后，匆匆离世。
After 3 days in hospital, he died hurriedly.
家人知道，毕竟72岁了，再强健的肌肉，也耐不住岁数在这了。
Family members know, after all, 72 years old, no matter how strong the muscles, also can not bear the years here.
邱钧（图源：凤凰网）曲巧明是2月6日走的，死前意识已经不清，不知道外面发生了什么。
Qiu Jun (Source: Order of the Phoenix) Qu Qiao Ming is February 6 walk, the consciousness before death has not been clear, do not know what happened outside.
家人还记得他意气风发的样子。
His family still remembers the way he looked.
年轻时，他在武桥重工做工人。
When he was young, he worked as a heavy worker in Wuqiao.
硬骨头一个，喝了酒便犯浑。
A hard bone makes you stink when you drink.
老伴杨来云常细声细气地叹说命苦，怎么嫁了这样的人。
Old wife Yang Laoyun often sighs that fate is bitter, how to marry such a person.
老了脾气似乎好些，学着做北方面食，在自家天台侍弄花草，养只狗。
Old temper seems to be better, learn to do northern pasta, in the roof of their own flowers and plants, a dog.
再后来，中了风，听力和肾都出了问题，渐渐动不了了。
Later, in the wind, hearing and kidney problems, gradually unable to move.
六年来，一直躺在床上，天天靠儿女翻身，搞这搞那。
For six years, I've been lying in bed, turning over my children every day, doing this.
儿女难免有怨气，和老头吵。
Children are bound to complain and quarrel with the old man.
但该做的义务，经受的苦，是始终认下的。
But the obligation to do, the suffering, is always recognized.
原本，他只是患上普通肺炎，1月16号由家人急忙往协和急诊室一送，他们没有防备交叉感染的知识。
Originally, he was suffering from ordinary pneumonia, January 16 by the family rushed to Concorde's emergency room, they do not have knowledge of cross-infection.
事后想来，新冠病毒也许就是从这里潜入老人的脆弱身体。
In hindsight, the new crown virus may have infiltrated the frail body of the elderly from here.
2010年的春节，曲巧明、杨来云和女儿一起包饺子余明也是当了一辈子工人，2000年退休。
In 2010, Qu Qiaoming, Yang Lai-yun and her daughter made dumplings together as a lifelong worker, retired in 2000.
偶尔有人家让他帮忙的活儿，他就接。
Occasionally he was asked to help with his work, and he took it.
他老实，话少，和老伴都是朴素的人，退了休也起很早出去买菜。
He was honest, quiet, and simple with his wife, and retired early to buy vegetables.
他们是最最典型的普通老百姓，没什么特别的爱好，大部分时间就是坐在家里看电视，在小区里溜达，聊天。
They are the most typical ordinary people, no special hobbies, most of the time sitting at home watching TV, wandering around the neighborhood, chatting.
大年初三，他没觉出异样，但儿子为保险起见，给父亲量了体温，果然中了招。
New Year's Day, he did not feel strange, but his son to be on the safe side, took his father's temperature, really hit.
家人带他去了社区医院，拍了片子，发现双肺感染，被确诊为病毒性肺炎。
His family took him to the community hospital, where he was photographed and found to have a two-lung infection and was diagnosed with viral pneumonia.
2月10日，他在去往火神山医院的路上，落下此生的最后一口气。
On February 10, he was on his way to Mount Fire Hospital, where he took his last breath.
刘志英是建国后第一批水电工程师，青年时代曾支援边疆，在西藏拉萨水电二队工作。
Liu Zhiying was one of the first hydroelectric engineers after the founding of the People's Republic.
妻子胡梅跟着他入藏，在拉萨当过赤脚医生，做过财务会计。
His wife, Humei, followed him into hiding, worked as a barefoot doctor in Lhasa and worked as a financial accountant.
1970年，儿子刘刚在拉萨出生。
In 1970, his son Liu Gang was born in Lhasa.
1979年全家回到武汉。
The family returned to Wuhan in 1979.
刘章英是家中主心骨，是个通透明白的人，带领着小家蒸蒸日上。
Liu Zhangying is the backbone of the family, is a clear understanding of the people, leading the small family flourishing.
多年来，夫妻两人感情甚笃。
For years, the couple had been in deep love.
胡成梅也是个坚强的女人，轻易不愿在家人面前显示脆弱。
Hu Chengmei is also a strong woman, easy to do not want to show in front of their families vulnerable.
最后走的时候也是，静悄悄的，在家中卧室没有发出声响。
The last time I left it was quiet and silent. There was no sound in my bedroom.
悲痛的刘志英向儿子预言，老伴离开，自己的精神也垮了。
The grieving Liu Zhiying prophesied to his son that his wife had left and that his spirit had broken down.
三天后他离世。
He died three days later.
医者当哨声在夜空响起时，李文亮已经离开。
When the whistle sounded in the night sky, Li Wenliang had left.
他发出疫情预警，彰显出可贵的诚实。
He issued an early warning of the outbreak, demonstrating valuable honesty.
被感染后，还惦记着康复后再上一线。
After the infection, but also think of recovery after a line.
他离开后，人们翻遍了他的微博，拼凑出这位医生平时的面貌，他喜欢美食，是个数码控，每条微博下方都燃起小小的蜡烛，纪念这位不以勇敢自居的眼科医生。
When he left, people rummaged through his microblogs, piecing together the doctor's usual look. He liked food, was digitally controlled, and a small candle lit under every microblog in memory of the ophthalmologist who did not pretend to be brave.
纪念李文亮在李文亮之后，另一位倒在一线的是武汉市武昌医院院长刘智明。
After commemorating Li Wenliang in Li Wenliang, the other fell on the front line is Wuhan Wuchang hospital director Liu Zhiming.
李文亮或许能叫他一声“学长”，两人同求学于武大。
Li Wenliang may be able to call him a "senior", the two students together in martial arts.
武昌医院为武汉市第一批接收发热病人的定点医院，刘智明曾戴佩着一级防护设备进入过ICU，里面躺着多位疑似新冠肺炎患者，事后他的同事分析，感染或起于当时。
Wuchang Hospital was one of the first designated hospitals in Wuhan to receive febrile patients. Liu Zhiming had entered the ICU wearing primary protective equipment.
他的妻子蔡利萍也是一线护士长，日夜不分地收治病人，丈夫倒下后，她只能靠微信追问——我能去陪你吗？我去陪着你好吗？要我照顾你吗？不用，他答。
His wife, Cai Liping, also a first-line matron, treated patients day and night, and when her husband fell, she could only ask by micromail - could I go with you? Shall I go with you? No, he answered.
他躺在ICU，白茫茫的病房，烦躁，缺氧，虚汗不止，打了呼吸机后一度好转，认为自己该是死不了。
He lay in the ICU, in a white ward, fidgety, hypoxic, sweaty, temporarily better after a ventilator, thinking that he should not die.
就在几天前，他也是一线上的一员，身为院长，统筹调度，24小时待命，时间仍是不够。
Just a few days ago, he was also on the front line, as dean, co-ordinated scheduling, 24-hour standby, time is still not enough.
最终情况没按预想的走，医者终难自医。
Eventually the situation did not go as expected and the healer was unable to cure himself.
2月18日，刘智明走了。
On February 18, Liu Zhiming left.
刘智明被疫情叫停的还有一场永不到来的婚礼。
Liu Zhiming was also called off by the outbreak of a wedding will never come.
彭银华是武汉江夏区第一人民医院医生，和妻子本打算正月初八举行婚礼。
Peng Yinhua is Wuhan Jiangxia District First People's Hospital doctor, and his wife had intended to hold the wedding on January 8.
情况有变，他们达成共识：疫情不散，婚期延迟。
As things changed, they agreed that the epidemic was not over and that the marriage was delayed.
之后，他请缨参与抗疫。
He has since chosen to fight the disease.
他是呼吸内科医生，必须直面一线患者。
He is a respiratory physician who has to face front-line patients.
他一度连续撑了两天两夜，其间收治了40多位病人。
For two days and two nights, he treated more than 40 patients.
在高强度的状态下，抵抗力毫无预警地下降。
Under the high intensity condition, the resistance drops without warning.
1月25日新年第一天，彭银华入院， 2月2日，乐观的他还在病房摆出V字形手势，让为自己输血浆的护士拍照留念。
On January 25, Peng Yinhua was admitted to hospital. On February 2, he made a V-shaped gesture in the ward, taking pictures of nurses who had been pumping plasma into his room.
他是做好凯旋的准备的。
He was ready for the triumph.
2月20日，心愿未了的彭银华离开人间，抽屉里还放着没来得及派发的喜帖。
Feb. 20, the wish of the unfinished Peng Yinhua left the world, drawer is still not in time to distribute the wedding post.
同事在纪念彭银华（图源：新华社）在湖北鄂州，许德甫是颇有名望的老中医，长于诊治肝胆脾胃病。
In Hubei Province, Hubei Province, Xu Defu was a famous Chinese traditional Chinese medicine specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of hepatobiliary, splenogastric diseases.
他用药简便廉验，药到病除，网上甚至流传着他所开出的药方。
His medication was simple and inexpensive, and his prescriptions were even circulated on the Internet.
他虽然已退休，但又被鄂州市中医医院返聘为专家，每周坐诊，有时也出义诊。
Though retired, he was rehired as an expert at Huzhou TCM Hospital, attending weekly and sometimes free consultations.
年前，病人量增多，大家总说他的号千金难求。
Five years ago, the number of patients increased, people always say that his number is difficult to find.
这对于63岁的他，同样也是身心的双重挑战。
For the 63-year-old, it was also a physical and mental challenge.
许德甫的感染路径至今不明，逝世于2月13日。
The route of Xu's infection remains unknown and he died on February 13.
一位叫夏敬明的市民赋诗送行——“瘟疫眼无珠，好人不长生”。
A citizen named Xia Jingming sent a poem to see off - "the plague without beads, good people do not live long."
许德甫天职毛样洪的倒下是个意外。
The fall of Xu Defu's career was an accident.
他是福建浦城县仙阳镇中心卫生院副院长，镇卫生院唯一一位副主任医师、全科大夫。
He is the deputy director of the central hospital in Pu Cheng County, Fujian, the only deputy chief physician, general practitioner.
浦城县被称为福建“北大门”，对全省防疫来说，是定要扼守的地理位置。
Pucheng County is known as Fujian "Peking Damei", on the province's epidemic prevention, is bound to hold the geographical position.
大年初一，轮到他值守高速检查站监测点，从16时到24时，登记车辆信息，检测乘车人员体温。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, it is his turn to monitor the high-speed checkpoint, from 1600 to 2400 hours, registration of vehicle information, temperature detection personnel in vehicles.
他当晚只吃了一碗泡面，对付对付的意思，儿子在家中等他，妻子在外地工作，此时也在返乡的路上。
He had only one bowl of noodles that night, and was on his way home, waiting for him at home and his wife working in the field.
下午出门前，他换上一身新衣，问儿子帅不帅，晚上21时许，一辆失控的车撞向了他。
Before leaving the house in the afternoon, he changed into a new suit and asked his son how handsome he was. At about 21 p. m., a runaway car hit him.
毛样红的最后一餐是一盒泡面这半个月来，清晨5点，蒋金波身着红色制服，戴一只淡蓝色医用口罩，拎着防护设备箱，里面装有防护衣、隔离衣、面瓶、面罩、口罩、鞋套、手套。
At 5: 00 a.m. Jiang Jinbo, dressed in a red uniform, wore a pale blue medical mask and carried a protective gear box containing protective clothing, jackets, bottles, face masks, masks, shoe covers and gloves.
这是他出门前的行头。
This is his outfits before he goes out.
他是江西省赣州市大余县疾控中心的医师，疫情期间，负责在隔离病房进行流行病学调查。
He is a physician at the CDC in Dayu County, Ganzhou City, Jiangxi Province. He was in charge of epidemiological investigation in isolation ward during the outbreak.
到达医院清洁区后，他打开设备箱，一一换上，接着走入弥漫着新冠病毒的隔离病房。
Arriving at the hospital's clean-up area, he opened the kits, replaced them one by one, and walked into the isolation ward filled with the new crown virus.
疫情爆发的二十多天来，他的主要工作，就是与这里的病人一一询问、核实调查病例的基本情况、发病就诊经过、暴露史，确定密切接触者和可疑暴露者。
In the more than 20 days since the outbreak, his main task has been to inquire with patients here, verify the basic status of the investigation cases, the history of medical consultations, exposure history, and identify close contacts and suspected exposed persons.
这样的工作节奏持续了十五天。
The rhythm of the work lasted fifteen days.
如果不是1月28日，因劳累过度引发的心肌梗死，让他停歇，不知道他还会这样运转多长时间。
If it hadn't been for the January 28 myocardial infarction caused by overwork, he would have stopped, not knowing how long he would still be running like this.
蒋金波（左一，图源：经济日报）急性心肌梗死也带走了村医王土成。
Jiang Jinbo (left one, picture source: economic daily) Acute myocardial infarction also took village doctor king earth Cheng.
他是河南省长葛市下属新王庄村村医。
He is the new village doctor of Changge City Henan Province.
河南的硬核防疫，拆解来看，是千万水滴的汇集。
Henan hard core epidemic prevention, dismantling, is a collection of tens of millions of water droplets.
其中的乡村防疫，更是紧要环节。
One of the rural epidemic prevention, but also the crucial link.
需要王土成做的太多了。
It takes too much of Wang Tucheng.
一一调查村民的健康状态，测量体温，指导消毒，在群里转发防疫知识，反复呼告。
Survey the health status of villagers, take temperature, guide disinfection, forward epidemic prevention knowledge in the group, call repeatedly.
屏幕里翻下来，都是他在刷屏，让人似乎能听得到他在那头声嘶力竭地喊。
The screen turned down and he was scrubbing the screen so that one could hear him shouting at the top of his voice.
从2005年取得乡村医生资格证后，他一直留在新王庄村卫生室工作，为两千多村民解除大小病痛。
Since obtaining a village doctor's certificate in 2005, he has been working in the health office of Xinwangzhuang Village, relieving more than 2,000 villagers of major and minor ailments.
被发现时，他静静地躺在这方陋室的休息间。
When he was found, he lay quietly in the resting-room of the Burrow.
新王庄村卫生室（图源：人民网）正月初一，宋英杰与父母在家中留下合影，他身着熨帖的黑风衣，父母则穿得红火喜庆，新春第一天本就该这么打扮。
On the first day of the first month, Song Yingjie and his parents left a photo at home. He was dressed in an ironed black windbreaker, while his parents were dressed in a red-hot festive costume, as they should have done on the first day of the new spring.
这是一个不甚富裕的家庭，以种植柠檬树为生。
It was a less affluent family that lived on lemon trees.
宋英杰是“90后”，家中小儿，粗眉细眼，精瘦干练，本科毕业后在湖南省衡山县下属东湖镇马迹卫生院工作。
Song Yingjie is "90 years after", home children, coarse eyebrow, lean and capable, after graduation from the Hunan Hengshan County East Lake Township Ma Tian Health Center.
这是他加入抗击新冠肺炎团队的的第一天，负责在高速路口收费站对过往车辆人员实施体温检测。
It was the first day he joined the team that tested people's body temperature at toll booths at high-speed junctions.
当地缺乏人手，也兼顾物资分发，来回都是这样琐碎而消磨体力的活。
The lack of local staff and the distribution of supplies are all such trivial and physically exhausting tasks.
11天后的凌晨，他交班后回到宿舍，心源性猝死悄无声息地带走了这名年轻人。
11 days later, he returned to the dormitory after the shift, sudden cardiac death quietly took the young man.
宋英杰和父母（图源：衡阳晚报）同事们还记得徐辉走进办公室轻缓的关门音，低沉的讲话声。
Song Yingjie and his parents (source: Hengyang Evening News) colleagues remember Xu Hui walking into the office, softly closing the door, deep voice.
她是南京市中医医院的副院长，新冠肺炎防治组组长，种种决策，依赖她的拍板定夺。
She is the vice-president of Nanjing Chinese Medicine Hospital, head of the New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Team.
这段日子，即使回家后，电话依然一通接着一通，丈夫只记得她焦灼的语气，大致能想象妻子每日面临的繁重局面。
These days, even after returning home, phone calls followed, and the husband could only remember the anxious tone of her voice and the heavy daily situation his wife was facing.
2月6日早上，同事唐暮白听徐辉提起，脚肿了。
On the morning of Feb. 6, my colleague Xu Hui mentioned that his feet were swollen.
他劝说她去做个B超检查，她没有去。
He talked her into a B-scan, but she didn't.
晚上，因疼痛难忍，她终于决定打一通告假的电话。
In the evening, the pain being unbearable, she finally decided to make a call to leave.
那是她生命的最后一天。
It was the last day of her life.
徐辉育人者1953年，19岁的段正澄成为华中工学院（现华中科技大学）成立后招收的第一届大学生，1957年毕业起，留校任教。
Xu Hui educated people in 1953, the 19-year-old Duan Zhengcheng became the first university student admitted after the establishment of the Central China Institute of Technology (now Huazhong University of Science and Technology).
他说，喻园有我栽下的树。
There are trees I planted in the garden, he said.
此话不虚，他进校时是校园初创期，他们一帮年轻学生都要参加基建工作，常常是上午种树，下午在工地当小工。
He entered the school at the beginning of his school year. A group of young students took part in the construction work, often planting trees in the morning and working at the construction site in the afternoon.
1996年，段正澄带领团队研发全球首台全身伽马刀，大大提高杀死肿瘤细胞的精准性，降低对正常器官的损害。
In 1996, Danzheng Cheng led the team to develop the world's first full-body gamma knife, greatly improving the accuracy of killing tumor cells and reducing damage to normal organs.
这项发明已在全国上百家医院推广。
The invention has been popularized in hundreds of hospitals all over the country.
2月15日，段正澄感染新冠肺炎去世。
Feb. 15, Duan Zhengcheng died of pneumonia.
当日，华中科技大学公布，学校的“征程助学金”系段正澄先生用自己的百万元奖金匿名捐助设立。
On the same day, Huazhong University of Science and Technology announced that the school's "journey grant" was set up by Mr. Cheng Cheng Cheng with his own million-dollar bonus.
他一生所为一事，以己之力，福泽他人。
What he did in his life, by his own power, benefited others.
离开的师者还有武汉同济医院教授林正斌。
Those who left were Professor Lin Zhengbin of Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
他是一名低调的器官移植专家。
He is a low-key organ transplant specialist.
1983年毕业于同济医学院医疗系，后赴日本金泽医科大学留学。
He graduated from Tongji Medical College in 1983 and went to Jinze Medical University in Japan to study.
他行事低调，谦和待人，说话细声细语。
He was low-key, modest, and spoke in a low voice.
从事器官移植专业30余年，是国宝级专家。
Engaged in organ transplantation for more than 30 years, is a national treasure experts.
今年他62岁，退了休，本是颐养之年。
He retired this year at the age of 62, the year of his retirement.
同事推测，大概率是体内触发的“炎症因子”风暴带走了这位教授。
Colleagues speculate that the high probability is that the body triggers an "inflammatory factor" storm that takes the professor away.
平日的他身体不错，没有什么基础病，理应有悠长的时日享受平静的晚年。
He is in good health on weekdays and has no basic ailments. He deserves a long, quiet old age.
在灰暗的背景下，错落有致地摆放着鲜亮缤纷的水果。
In the dark background, a patchwork of brightly colored fruit.
日常之物，透过艺术家的笔法下，呈现出庄重平和的生命感。
The daily life, through the artist's pen, presents a solemn and peaceful sense of life.
这是刘寿祥的代表作《鲜果》。
This is Liu Shouxiang's masterpiece, Fresh Fruit.
他是中国当代水彩画界具有影响力的画家之一。
He is one of the influential painters in the field of Chinese contemporary watercolor painting.
1981年毕业于湖北艺术学院美术系师范专业并留校任教，直至2018年退休，培养了大批美术人才。
Graduated in 1981 from the Hubei Institute of Art Department of Fine Arts teacher training and teaching, until 2018, the retirement of a large number of fine arts talent.
2月13日，他被新冠肺炎掠去生命，而他的作品和艺术精神将会永生。
On February 13, he was robbed of his life by the New Crown Pneumonia, and his works and artistic spirit will live forever.
刘寿祥结语因感染新冠肺炎以及抗击疫情牺牲的还有武汉红十字会医院医生肖俊、武汉协和江北医院医生夏思思、泰州市人民医院医生姜继军、武汉武昌医院护士柳帆、湖北电影制片厂导演常凯、华科大教授红凌、一线民警王春天、潘继明、何建华，交警郑勇，辅警王爱兰，基层干部姜娜、黄和艳，政府职工李光剑、社区医生宋云花……我们无法一一道尽所有离开者之名。
Liu Shouxiang Conclusion Wuhan Red Cross Hospital doctor Xiao Jun, Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei Hospital doctor Xia Sisisi, Taizhou City People's Hospital doctor Jiang Jijun, Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Director Changkai, Hubei University Professor Hong Ling, first-line police Wang Spring, Pan Jiming, He Jianhua, traffic police Zhengyong, auxiliary police Wang Erlan, grassroots cadre Jenna, Huang Wenhyan, government staff Li Guang Jian, community doctor Song Yun-hua.
我们在渡过漫长的冬天。
We are having a long winter.
前方是什么，必定要勇敢走过去，亲身验证。
What is ahead, must be brave to walk past, personally verify.
不能犹疑，也不能丧失意志。
No hesitation, no loss of will.
此处有痛苦，也有胜利。
Here there is both pain and victory.
唯有战而胜之，才能告慰每一个在冬天离开的人，他们都曾热气腾腾地，活过。
Only a victory in the war can comfort everyone who leaves in the winter, they have all steamed and lived.
本文综合参考了澎湃新闻、北京青年报、中国青年报、红星新闻、南方都市报、经济日报、新京报、荔枝新闻、健康时报等媒体报道* 为保护隐私，文中余明、柳志英、胡成梅为化名采访 /王迪 实习生 胡雅婷撰文 /刘成硕本期编辑 邢潭推荐阅读。
In order to protect privacy, media reports including Peng Pai News, Beijing Youth Daily, China Youth Daily, Red Star News, Southern Metropolis Daily, Economic Daily, Xinjing News, Lai Chi News, Health Times, etc.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
每一位在这个冬天离开的人，都曾热气腾腾地活过。
Everyone who leaves this winter has lived a very hot life.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "每一位在这个冬天离开的人，都曾热气腾腾地活过";。
var msg _ title = & quot; everyone who left this winter was at least as hot as Rhett;;
var msg_desc = "透过这些生平掠影，是每一个无比重要的人生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with all that life, it's a life of the utmost importance.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉彭银华医生牺牲，本打算正月初八办婚礼',。
At the expense of Dr. Peng Yinhua, Wuhan, who intended to have been married at & apos; 8 in January.
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '村支书在朋友圈卖菜，法官们成最大客户',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '新冠病毒“高清彩照”曝光',。
AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
