玫瑰花农今年没有情人节。
The roses farmers have no Valentine's Day this year.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
摘要：31岁的李戈从事花卉行业12年，他在云南楚雄承包了500亩玫瑰花田，有200亩都在为“2·14”情人节做准备，从去年10月忙到了今年初。
Li Ge, 31, spent 12 years in the flower industry contracting 500 mu of roses in Chuxiong, Yunnan, where he spent 200 mu preparing for February 14, 2008, from October to early this year.
疫情来临，原本期待的收获季变成他从业以来最困难的时节。
With the onset of the epidemic, what was expected to be a harvest season became the most difficult of his life.
文｜汪婷婷编辑｜陶若谷2020年本该是花农李戈的“丰年”。
Wen Wang Tingting, editor of less than 20 percent of Tao Ruogu in 2020 should have been a "bumper year" for flower farmer Li Ge.
年初，云南宜良、陆良、昭通等鲜花种植地下了场大雪，压垮许多花棚，毁了几十万枝当地花农为“2·14”准备的玫瑰花。
Early this year, Yiliang, Lu Liang, Zhaotong and other flowers planted underground snow, crushing many huts, destroyed hundreds of thousands of local flower farmers for "February 14" roses.
这反而成了李戈的机遇，市场上的花少了，他手里的花更值钱了。
On the contrary, it became an opportunity for Li Ge. There were fewer flowers in the market and the flowers in his hand were more valuable.
他承包的500亩玫瑰花田在楚雄，逃过了年初的雪灾。
He contracted a 500-acre field of roses in Chuxiong, escaped the snowstorm early in the year.
他估计今年“2·14”的玫瑰花至少能和去年一样，涨到一支3块钱的高价，为了这天，他从去年10月底就开始在花田做准备。
He estimated that this year's "February 14" rose to at least the same price as last year, a three-dollar price, for which he had been making preparations since the end of October.
昆明国际花卉拍卖交易中心（简称“花拍中心”）也在官微上打出广告，称今年的“2·14”是“史上最具潜力的情人节”——只要开市，花价一定上涨，甚至有可能刷新过往的纪录。
Kunming International Flower Auction Center (Kunming International Flower Shooting Center) also advertised the February 14 holiday as "the most promising Valentine's Day ever," saying that prices would rise as soon as the market opened, possibly even setting new records.
最终，“2·14”那天李戈一枝花也没卖。
In the end, Li Ge did not sell a single flower on February 14.
过完年，快递陆续停运，各地花市都封了，花运不出去烂在地里。
After the end of the year, express delivery continued to stop, all over the flower markets are closed, flowers do not go out rotten in the field.
为这天忙活了3个月，投入的580万元成本都赔了。
Work for the day for three months, the cost of the investment of 5.8 million yuan have been made up.
物流继续停，他还在继续亏。
Logistics continues to stop, he continues to lose money.
他一支接一支地点烟：“事情都成这样了，走一步看一步吧。
He lit cigarette after cigarette: "It's all done. Take a step at a time.
”以下为李戈的口述：泡汤的情人节我从去年10月底就在为情人节做准备，500亩的玫瑰花田，有200亩都是为“2·14”种的。
I have been making preparations for Valentine's Day since the end of October last year. I have been planting 200 mu of my 500-acre rose field for February 14.
冬天玫瑰花的生长周期特别长，要100多天才成熟一次，所以我（去年）10月底就给花切枝，让花重新发芽，每天施肥、浇水、拔草，保证情人节能有足够多、足够新鲜的玫瑰。
The growing cycle of roses in winter is so long that it takes more than 100 days to ripen, so I cut the flowers and allowed them to sprout again at the end of October, fertilizing, watering and weeding every day to make sure there were enough fresh roses for Valentine's Day.
鲜花寿命很短，采收期3天左右，这3天没把花摘下来送到客户手里，往后再采也没用了，因为花到不了客户手里就谢了。
Flowers have a short lifespan of about three days. They have not been picked in the hands of customers for three days, and it is no use collecting them again because they can't be spent in the hands of customers.
我的客户主要是北京、上海、天津、南京等大城市的花卉批发商。
My customers are mainly flower wholesalers in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Nanjing.
一年到头卖得好的也就是“2·14”、七夕、国庆节、圣诞节……有时（市场上）花太多，或者节日气氛没那么浓，也不好卖。
The things that sell well all year round are February 14, Tanabata, National Day, Christmas... Sometimes it costs too much, or the festive atmosphere is not so strong, and it's hard to sell.
生意最好的时候就是情人节，一定好卖，花价一定涨。
The best time for business is Valentine's Day. It must be good to sell and expensive.
情人节又经常在春节附近。
Valentine's Day is often near the Spring Festival.
大家过年休息的时候，都是我们最忙的时候。
We all have our busiest time during the New Year break.
我这两天有空跟你聊聊，也是因为遇到疫情了。
I have two days free to talk to you, also because of the outbreak.
花市上都是按扎卖花，一扎20枝。
Flower market is according to Zha selling flowers, a bunch of 20.
每一扎的价格不固定，今晚一扎可能3块，明晚就30块了，要看市场，浮动大也是常见的。
The price of each package is not fixed, tonight it may be 3 yuan, tomorrow night 30 dollars, depending on the market, fluctuations are common.
今年情人节尤其好。
Valentine's Day is especially good this year.
“2·14”的订单很多，都是大单，我手上的一个单子就要15万扎花。
"February 14" a large number of orders, are large orders, I have a list of 150, 000 Zha.
2月14日是一个周五，一般来说，周五的成交量都会大。
February 14 is a Friday, generally speaking, the volume of Friday will be large.
加上前段时间云南的花被大雪压垮了一些，（市面上）花也比较少，所以我预估今年一扎至少能卖到去年的价格，甚至更高。
Plus the flowers in Yunnan have been crushed by the heavy snow some time ago, and there are fewer flowers, so I estimate that this year a bunch of them will fetch at least last year's price, or even more.
不止是我，所有花农都奔着今年情人节能挣个几十万、上百万。
It's not just me. All the gardeners are making hundreds of thousands and millions this Valentine's Day.
但遇到了疫情，期望全泡汤了。
But in the face of an epidemic, expectations are gone.
李戈花田里开爆（蔫）的玫瑰花。
Roses exploded (wilted) in the Li Ge Flower field.
为了控制人流量，大城市的花市都封了，下游商家没生意，我们的订单也少了。
In order to control the flow of people, the big city flower markets are closed, downstream businesses have no business, and we have fewer orders.
各地物流又陆续停运，接到了订单也发不出去。
Logistics around the block, received orders can not be sent out.
花市上有公开数据，云南光种鲜花的就有170多万亩地，但现在除了“花拍中心”还在销售，其他所有的鲜花交易都瘫痪了。
Flower market data, Yunnan alone more than 1.7 million mu of flowers, but now in addition to the "flower shooting center" is still on sale, all the other flower trade is paralyzed.
最后，“2·14”那天的花价差不多是3块钱一扎。
Finally, the price on February 14 was almost three dollars a share.
作为对比，我告诉你去年是60多块（一扎）。
By contrast, I told you it was more than 60 yuan (a bar) last year.
那天我没卖。
I didn't sell it that day.
我打包鲜花的场地被封，卖包装资材的厂家也停工了，当然，要是想卖，这些都是可以克服的，主要是花装箱打包要把工人召集起来，疫情那么严重，风险太大了。
The grounds where I packed the flowers were sealed and the factories selling the packaging materials were shut down. Of course, if I wanted to sell them, they could be overcome, mainly packing cases to bring the workers together.
我的工人有四分之三放假了，到现在我也没让回来。
Three-quarters of my workers have been on holiday, and I haven't let them back yet.
每一天，都有几万枝鲜花开爆（蔫），烂在地里。
Every day, tens of thousands of flowers explode and rot in the ground.
前期在200亩花田投入的地租、农药化肥、工人工资，大概580万全赔了。
In the early 200 mu of field investment in land rent, pesticide fertilizer, workers wages, about 5.8 million full compensation.
工人放假，浇水施肥也不弄了，每天还在亏1.5万元左右。
Workers holiday, watering fertilizer did not do, each day is still a deficit of about 15 million yuan.
烂在地里还能少亏一点我的基地在云南楚雄，市场部在昆明斗南花市。
rotten in the field can be less loss of my base in Yunnan Chuxiong, marketing department in Kunming Du Nanhua market.
以往，我和工人每天黎明前就起床摘花，6点之前要把鲜花分级、防腐包装后装车。
In the past, workers and I used to get up before dawn to pick flowers, before 6 o'clock to grade flowers, anticorrosive packaging after loading cars.
大货车开2个小时到斗南花市，一半由市场部直接打包发走，另一半进入“花拍中心”卖。
Big trucks drive 2 hours to Du Nan Flower Market, half are packed and sent directly by the marketing department, the other half enter "Flower Shooting Center" for sale.
斗南花市是亚洲交易量最大的鲜切花市场，占地面积有1万多平，有两个“花拍中心”和一个散花交易市场。
The market is Asia's most traded fresh cut flower market, with an area of more than 10, 000 square meters, with two "flower shooting centers" and a bouquet market.
日均交易量有1500万到2000万支鲜花，其中，“花拍中心”占60%左右。
The average daily trading volume is 15 to 20 million flowers, of which the "flower shooting center" accounts for about 60 percent.
把花送到“花拍中心”后，工作人员会根据质量分为ABCD级，排列好装桶，等着买家来拍。
After the flowers are sent to the "Flower Center," the staff will be ABCD-rated according to the quality, arranged in drums, waiting for buyers to shoot.
两天卖不出去就爆（蔫）了。
It will shrivel up after two days.
所以为了保证市场上花的质量，“花拍中心”每天都会销毁滞销的花。
So in order to ensure the quality of the flowers on the market, "shoot center" will destroy the unsold flowers every day.
2019年情人节前夕的斗南花市。
2019 Valentine's Day eve Du Nan Flower Market.
图源自网络受疫情影响，散花市场1月下旬就封了。
The picture stems from the network affected by the epidemic, scattered flower market closed in late January.
两个“花拍中心”，小的那个也封了，大的闭市了几天，2月10号又重新开市到现在。
Two "flower shooting center," the small one is also sealed, the big closed for a few days, February 10 reopened to the present.
新闻说那天斗南花市有上百万支鲜花被销毁，这很正常，每天都有花被销毁，只是多与少。
It said millions of flowers had been destroyed that day at the Danun Flower Market. It was normal and flowers were destroyed every day, just more or less.
虽然我没问过，但我猜10号销毁的就是闭市前送进去的花。
I didn't ask, but I guess the number 10 destroyed the flowers that were sent in before the market closed.
我们花农不用一直守在那里，网上会有数据，今天卖了多少扎，多少钱，谁买走的……第二天就汇款到我银行卡。
We gardeners do not have to stay there all the time, there will be data on the Internet, today sold how much Zha, how much money, who bought... the next day remittances to my bank card.
17号我送了些花过去，平时有几千买家的“花拍中心”那天只有300多人。
17, I sent some flowers to the past, usually thousands of buyers of the "Flower Center" that day only more than 300 people.
这还是我春节后第一次卖花，价钱也不好，3块钱一扎，赔得很。
This is the first time I sold flowers after the Spring Festival, the price is not good, three yuan a Zha, a loss.
有客户天天跟我下单、催我发货，像北京有四五个大花市，批发商手里一支花都没有，要跟我拿货。
There are customers with me daily orders, urged me to send goods, like Beijing has four or five big flower markets, wholesalers do not have a flower in their hands, want to get goods with me.
我也尝试过两次，但不顺利。
I tried it twice, but it didn't work out.
花田附近的高速路口不知什么时候给封了，司机每次拉货出去都要量体温、登记，问你从哪儿来的，要到哪儿去，每天得更早出门。
I do not know when the high-speed intersection near the flower field was sealed, every time the driver pulled out to take temperature, check in, ask where you came from, where to go, and go out earlier every day.
第一次，花拉到昆明摆了两天，飞机一直停飞，花就废了。
The first time, Hua pulled to Kunming for two days, the plane has been grounded, the flower waste.
第二次又拉到昆明，车都没地方停，花没地方卸，直接原地报销了，几千扎玫瑰啊！花烂在地里我还能少亏一点钱。
The second time I pulled to Kunming, the car no place to stop, flowers no place to discharge, directly in situ reimbursed, thousands of roses ah! Flowers in the field I can lose a little money.
硬往外发，如果发不出去亏得更多。
Offshoring hard, if you can not go out of the loss more.
我给你算算，包装一扎花3块，从楚雄到昆明，拉一扎花的成本是4块，地里工人采花的钱也得给。
From Chuxiong to Kunming, the cost of pulling a bunch of flowers is 4 yuan, and the workers in the field have to pay for the flowers.
就等于这扎花烂在地里亏10块，往外卖还卖不出去，得亏15块。
The same as this bunch of flowers rotten in the field 10 dollars, to take away can not sell, to a loss of 15 dollars.
看到网上有人说可以做成玫瑰鲜花饼，我也想告诉你们，这就不是同一种东西。
I want to tell you that it's not the same thing to see someone online saying they can make rose-flower cakes.
做鲜花饼的是食用玫瑰，我们这个是切花月季，培育过程中下农药重，不能食用的。
Flower cake is made of edible roses, we are cut rose, the process of cultivation under heavy pesticides, can not be eaten.
还有人说做成永生花，那又是另一种工艺了，跟我们就不搭尬，要是我做永生花，估计赔得更多。
There are those who say that making immortal flowers is another kind of craft, which we have no choice but to lose more if I am an immortal flower.
平时，李戈的玫瑰花都要包装成这样才能往外发货。
Usually, ligo's roses have to be packaged so that they can be shipped out.
拖着，等着做这个行业12年了，还没遇到过这么难的时候。
Drag, wait to do this industry for 12 years, has not encountered such a difficult time.
我是楚雄人，大山里的孩子，要啥没啥。
I'm a Chu Xiong, a kid from the mountains. It's nothing.
以前家里穷，成绩也不好早早就辍学了，从做苗木转做花卉生意的时候，我19岁。
I dropped out of school early because I was poor and had poor grades. I was 19 when I moved from nursery stock to flower business.
刚开始主要做新加坡、韩国等亚洲国家的鲜花进出口贸易，后来转向国内鲜花批发。
Start doing Singapore, South Korea and other Asian countries to import and export flowers trade, and then switch to domestic flower wholesale.
2016年，受电商冲击，批发生意难做，我才想着转向源头。
In 2016, the shock of electricity business, wholesale business difficult, I want to turn to the source.
那时候前景是好的。
The outlook was good then.
我积累8年了，有人脉、有经验，所以一下子跟附近的农户租了500亩地，种玫瑰。
I have accumulated 8 years, people, experience, so all of a sudden with the nearby farmers rent 500 acres, planting roses.
我的花田里有20多个玫瑰品种，紫罗兰、流星雨、卡罗拉黑玫、戴安娜粉玫、荔枝、海洋之歌……五颜六色，好看得很。
My flower field has more than 20 rose varieties, Violet, Meteor shower, Carola Black Mae, Diana powder, lychee, sea song... colorful, very beautiful.
玫瑰苗不算贵，一株种下去能采好几年了。
Rose seedlings are not expensive; one can be planted for years.
一年可以采四五季，你一边摘，它一边发（芽）。
You can pick four or five seasons of the year while you pick it and it sprouts.
我雇了将近200个工人，每天挨个大棚锄草、打药、浇肥。
I hired nearly 200 workers to mow, take medicine, and fatten each day.
工钱、农药化肥钱，加上地租，即便每一年投入要有上千万，但感觉还是有得赚的。
The money, the pesticide fertilizer money, and the land rent, even if it takes tens of millions of dollars every year, but still feel profitable.
今年，我大年初三就到花田扎着了。
This year, I went to Hua Tian on the third day of the year.
花田是源头，“2·14”的卖花期会持续10多天，要开始忙了，我得在基地守着。
Flower field is the source, the "February 14" sales period will last more than 10 days, to start busy, I have to stay at the base.
老婆孩子在昆明家里，快1个月了，我还没回去看过。
My wife and children are at Kunming's house. I haven't been back for nearly a month.
花卖不出去，心里的压力肯定大。
Flowers cannot be sold, the pressure must be great.
1月底，十几万支花爆在地里一点办法没有，是我最焦虑的时候，每天吃不下睡不好，可是咋整？手下的员工都是附近村民，五六十岁的大叔大妈，申请过好多次了，想要复工。
At the end of January, hundreds of thousands of flowers exploded in the ground. It was my most anxious time. I couldn't sleep well every day.
都是大山里的人，平时家里就种点田、种点蔬菜、采采野山菌，不务工就相当于没有收入。
They are people in the mountains. They plant fields, plant vegetables and pick wild mountain bacteria at home. Not working is equivalent to no income.
我花田里有几十个特困户，都是这两年国家给评的，想想也知道（家庭条件）好不到哪儿去。
I have dozens of SHC families in my field, which the state has appraised for the past two years.
原先在我这里每月能挣两三千块钱，好歹能供孩子上学，养家糊口吧。
I used to make two or three thousand dollars a month to send my children to school and support their families.
我基地附近还有8000多亩花田，都面临同样的问题。
There are more than 8,000 mu of flower fields near our base, all of which face the same problems.
我们（花农）都在讨论，下一水（季）的农药化肥怎么弄？工人工资怎么整？然后又要付地租了对吧？很多农民送田给人种花，都没有人要。
We (the florists) are discussing, what about the next water (season) pesticide fertilizer? What about the wages of the workers? And then rent the land, right? Many farmers send fields to people to plant flowers, but no one wants them.
种花的生意要先投入才可能有回报。
The business of planting flowers may pay off only if you invest in it first.
算下来一亩地大概投入6000多块钱，现在花种出来，采收的时候已经是夏季——淡季，不一定能卖回来（成本）。
At about 6,000 yuan a acre of land, the flowers are now grown and harvested in the summer, off season, and not necessarily back (at cost).
像这两天，一扎花2、3块钱，一亩地就卖1000来块，种30亩地得亏21万。
Like these two days, a bunch of flowers 2, 3 yuan, an acre of land on the sale of 1000, 30 mu of land loss of 210,000.
只要是做花（生意）的都有影响。
As long as you're in the flower business, it makes a difference.
最简单的开花店，平时可能就维持一下，赚钱还要靠“2·14”。
The simplest flowering shop, may maintain at ordinary times, make money still depend on "2. 14".
但今年街上没人，手里的货也出不去，一个石家庄的批发商跟我说，他下游很多花店都在转手。
But no one on the street this year, the goods can not get out, a Shijiazhuang wholesaler told me, he downstream a lot of flower shops are changing hands.
但是像我的客户，都是批发商，他们前期光冷库投入就有七八十万，不是想退就能退的，只能拖着，拖着又每天都在亏钱。
But like my customers, are wholesalers, they have seven or eight hundred thousand cold storage in the early days, not want to retire, can only drag, drag and lose money every day.
跟我们种花的一样。
It's the same as our florist.
也不光是卖花的，种菜种水果的也都损失，物流出不去，作物原地销毁。
Not only selling flowers, growing vegetables and fruits are also lost, logistics can not get out, crops in situ destroyed.
旁边一个种了600亩草莓的老板说，烂在地里的草莓太多，他看着心疼，昨天刚刚免费送出去两吨。
Beside a 600-acre strawberry boss said, rotten strawberry in the field too much, he looked sad, just yesterday free to send out two tons.
今天他送都没法送，因为包装资材的厂家停工，把草莓装起来的东西都用完了。
He couldn't deliver it today because the packaging factory stopped working and ran out of strawberries.
现在就是等着，等疫情控制住，生活恢复正常，街道上开始有人消费了，就开门做生意。
Wait until the epidemic is under control, life returns to normal, and the streets begin to be consumed. Open the door to business.
目前还能维持住小家庭的日常生活和基地运转，接下来还有一个三八妇女节，我还有大概六七万扎花，如果一扎均价能在30元左右，那也还行。
I can still maintain the daily life of the small family and the operation of the base, then there is a March 8, I still have about 607,000 Zha, if the average price can be around 30 yuan, that is OK.
都亏这么多了，我也不知道未来该有什么打算，如果还是没卖出去，那就只能走一步看一步。
With so much to lose, I don't know what I'm going to do in the future. If I still haven't sold it, I'll have to take a step at a time.
李戈的玫瑰花田以前的样子。
What happened to ligo's rose fields.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
玫瑰花农今年没有情人节。
The roses farmers have no Valentine's Day this year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "玫瑰花农今年没有情人节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & rsquo; & rsquo; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "硬往外发，如果发不出去亏得更多。
var msg _ desc = & quot; outsourcing hard, if you can't go out and lose more.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
