火神山备忘录。
Memorandum from Mount Fire.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
The following article comes from 守候微光。
The following article comes from waits for the light.
Author 中国青年报。
Author China Youth Daily.
守候微光。
Waiting for the light.
大家一起凝视的， 既是我们的生活，也是历史的脉络。
What we gaze upon together is not only our life, but also the thread of history.
中国青年报摄影部公众平台，生产真诚严肃的社会纪实摄影，品读新鲜有益的全球视觉资讯，帮助年轻的你看身旁、看远方。
China Youth Daily Photography Department public platform, production of sincere and serious social documentary photography, reading fresh and beneficial global visual information, to help young you look at the side, see the distance.
。
.
火神山医院内部。
Inside the Mount Fire Hospital.
李峥苨/拍摄、剪辑中国青年报 李峥苨 摄影报道2月21日，武汉市蔡甸区知音湖畔的火神山医院，自接收第一名患者以来已经运转了18天。
Li Zheng, the Chinese Youth Daily, reported on February 21 that the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital on the banks of Zhiyin Lake, Cai Den, Wuhan, has been operating for 18 days since the first patient was admitted.
医院里设有近1000张病床，军队支援湖北医疗队的医护人员在这里为集中收治的新冠肺炎确诊患者提供治疗。
The hospital has nearly 1,000 beds, and military support staff from the Hubei Medical Team are here to provide treatment for patients diagnosed with centrally treated pneumonia.
感染八科一区是火神山医院首批接收新冠肺炎患者的病区之一。
Infection of Section I is one of the first areas in Mount Huoshen Hospital to receive patients with new crown pneumonia.
这里的60张病床几乎住满，由30余名护士轮班负责。
The 60-bed facility is almost full and is headed by more than 30 nurses working in shifts.
控制传染的弦在这里时刻紧绷着。
The strings of the infection are tensed here at all times.
防护用品的穿和脱都有严格的顺序，带图示的操作提示被打印贴在墙上，随处可见。
There is a strict sequence of wearing and stripping of protective gear, and pictorial operation tips are printed and posted on the walls.
进⼊隔离病房前，医护人员需要脱掉⾃⼰的服装，换上统⼀清洗消毒的⾐服和胶鞋，按照严格的顺序分区域先后穿上防护服和隔离服，戴上两层⼝罩、头套，3层⼿套、鞋套，再戴上护⽬镜和⾯罩。
Before entering the patient's isolation ward, medical staff need to take off the clothing to wash and disinfect them in a uniform, wear protective clothing and protective clothing in strict order, wear a two-layer hood, a hood, 3-storey quilts, and wear protective goggles and a hood.
期间需要反复消毒和确认防护细节，有时需要他人配合，才能完成整套作业。
During the period need to repeatedly disinfect and confirm the details of protection, sometimes need the cooperation of others to complete the entire set of homework.
严格的防护也给治疗工作带来了挑战。
Strict protection also poses a challenge to treatment.
血气检查是评价患者呼吸功能及酸碱平衡的一种手段，需要从患者的动脉采血样。
Blood gas examination is a method to evaluate the patient's respiratory function and acid-base balance. Blood samples need to be taken from the patient's arteries.
戴上3层手套后，感知动脉的跳动变得异常困难。
With three layers of gloves on, it becomes extremely difficult to sense the pulse of the artery.
护士们在采血前往手指上抹上酒精，既为了消毒，也为了强化自己的触觉。
Nurses collect blood and apply alcohol to their fingers, both to disinfect them and to strengthen their sense of touch.
隔着好几层口罩，病房里医护和患者的沟通依然顺畅。
Across several layers of masks, the patient and the hospital room continue to communicate smoothly.
感染八科一区的护士长左卉川来自河北，病区里许多老年患者只会说湖北方言，同病房的年轻患者会主动在查房时充当翻译，把老年患者的用药、进餐情况记下来告诉医护人员。
There are many old people in the sick area who only speak Hubei dialect. Young patients in the same wards act as interpreters when checking rooms, and take notes of their medication and meals.
医患之间还建起了微信群，交流治疗感受。
There are also micro-groups of doctors and patients to communicate their therapeutic feelings.
午餐时，几个医护人员坐在餐桌前打盹，这是他们繁忙工作中少有的可以坐下休息的时间。
At lunchtime, a few paramedics sit at the table to nap, the rare time they have to sit down and rest during their busy workday.
左卉川说，她和同事们有时需要在防护服中连续⼯作六七个⼩时，⼯作开展的初期，每天只能睡两三个⼩时。
She and her colleagues sometimes have to sleep only two or three times a day in the early stages of development, when they need to move up to six or seven times a day in protective clothing.
一天后，又一批71名符合出院标准的新冠肺炎患者走出了火神山医院。
A day later, another group of 71 patients who met the discharge criteria walked out of Mount Fujimori Hospital.
2⽉21⽇，武汉⽕神⼭医院感染八科，医护人员在病房内了解患者的情况。
Chao 21th, Wuhan Zhen Shenyang Hospital infected eight subjects, hospital staff in the ward to understand the patient's situation.
中⻘报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，一名老年患者食欲不振，医护人员上前询问情况。
Zheng Zheng Mountain Hospital in Wuhan on February 21, an elderly patient suffered from lack of appetite, and medical personnel came to inquire about the situation.
老人说武汉方言，医护人员分别来自河北和河南，隔壁床的患者主动帮忙翻译，帮助双方沟通。
The old man speaks Wuhan dialect, the medical personnel come from Hebei and Henan respectively, the patient of adjoining bed offers to help translate, helps both sides communicate.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，一名医护人员准备穿上防护服进入病区。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News, a journalist, Li Zheng Zheng / February 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital infects eight departments. A medical worker prepares to put on protective clothing and enter the sick area.
为了防止污染，防护服不能着地，穿着过程中需时刻注意。
In order to prevent pollution, protective clothing can not touch the ground, wearing the process needs constant attention.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科护士站门前，该病区的护士长左卉川（右）在护理部助理员葛雪燕的帮助下戴上第二层口罩。
The head nurse of the disease area, Zuojiechuan (right), put on a second mask with the help of nursing assistant Gerk Yan, the paramedic of the nursing department.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，在为一名患者采动脉血样前，护士长为护士的手指抹上酒精，这既是为了消毒，也为了强化护士的触觉。
The head nurse applied alcohol to the fingers of a nurse before taking an artery blood sample for a patient, both for disinfection and to strengthen the nurses' sense of touch.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科一区，医护人员准备为一名新冠肺炎患者采动脉血样做血气分析。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News, a journalist, Li Zheng Health / She Feb. 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital contracted Area 8. Medical staff are going to carry out blood gas analysis for a patient with new coronary pneumonia.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院，感染八科的护士长左卉川脱下防护服，准备去吃午餐，脸上是护目镜压出的痕迹。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News, reported that Li Zheng went to the Fire Mountain Hospital in Wuhan on February 21. He infected the head nurse of eight departments, Zuojiechuan, taking off his protective clothing and getting ready to go to lunch.
她所在的病区是火神山医院第一批接收新冠肺炎患者的病区之一。
Her area was one of the first to receive patients with new crown pneumonia at Mount Fukuyama Hospital.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，结束巡查工作的护理部助理员葛雪燕按步骤脱下外层隔离服后，用“七步洗手法”清洁双手。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News, reported that Li Zheng was infected with eight units on February 21. During the visit, nursing assistant Gersheyyan took off his outer layer of quarantine and cleaned his hands in seven steps.
长期戴护目镜压伤了鼻梁，她当天在护目镜和鼻子之间垫了一块纸巾缓解压迫感。
She wore goggles for a long time and broke her nose. She put a tissue between her goggles and her nose to ease the pressure.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科护士站，值班护士们讨论如何优化工作流程。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongying.com, a journalist, Li Zheng Zheng / February 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital infects eight nurse stations.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，护士正收集患者的动脉血样，准备移交检验科，身后一名患者拎着热水壶走过。
The nurse is collecting blood samples from the patients and preparing to hand them over to the inspection department. A patient walks by with a hot water bottle behind him.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院旁的武汉职工疗养院，火神山医院的医护人员在这里吃午餐，几名医护人员在椅子上睡着了。
The medical staff of Wuhan Workers' Sanatorium, next to Wuhan Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital, had lunch there. Several medical workers fell asleep on their chairs.
这是他们繁忙的工作中少有的可以坐下休息的时间。
It was one of the few hours of their busy work when they could sit down and rest.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，新冠肺炎患者在病房内休息。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Pneumonia, a journalist, Li Zheng Zhen / She February 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital contracted eight departments.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，医护人员在病床前询问患者的情况。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongying.com, a journalist, Li Zheng Zheng / February 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital contracted eight departments. Medical workers asked the patient in front of his bed.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，一位年轻的患者在病房内休息。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongying.com, a journalist, Li Zheng Zhen / She Feb. 21, Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital contracted eight departments.
出于安全考虑，患者病愈出院后，除了贵重物品外的大部分个人物品都无法带出病区。
For safety reasons, most personal belongings, except valuables, could not be taken out of the area after the patient was discharged from the hospital.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院感染八科，新冠肺炎患者在病房内的电视上收看当天在北京举办的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会直播。
Zheng Zheng Mountain Hospital in Wuhan, China, was infected with eight units on TV. People suffering from Newcastle Pneumonia watched the news conference of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held in Beijing the same day.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄2月21日，武汉火神山医院，感染八科的护士长将病区患者的一批动脉血样送到检验科，进行血气分析。
Zheng Zheng Mountain Hospital, Wuhan, February 21. The head nurse infected with eight departments sent a batch of arterial blood samples from the sick area to the laboratory for blood gas analysis.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄编辑 | 曲俊燕中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing News, a journalist with Li Zheng Zheng / photography editor / photography. Qu Junyan, China Youth Daily, has produced a micro-letter online.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火神山备忘录。
Memorandum from Mount Fire.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "火神山备忘录";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "控制传染的弦在这里时刻紧绷着。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The string that controls infection is tensed here at all times.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
