她没等到樱花开。
She didn't wait for the cherry blossoms.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月24日，武汉市协和江北医院殉职女医生夏思思的同事们，在她曾经用过的办公桌上摆放了鲜花、千纸鹤等。
On Feb. 24, colleagues at Wuhan Concorde Jiangbei Hospital, a woman doctor who died in the line of duty, laid flowers and thousands of paper cranes on her desk.
中青报·中青网记者王鑫昕/摄  中青报·中青网记者 孙庆玲 王鑫昕　2月23日，武汉市协和江北医院发布公告：该院消化内科医生夏思思，在抗击疫情一线不幸感染新冠肺炎，于2月23日清晨6时30分，经抢救无效在武汉大学中南医院去世。
Sun Qingling Wang Xinxin, a journalist with Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News, Zhongqing News, reported on Feb. 23. The hospital, digested by internist Xia Si-si, died in Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University at 6.30 a.m. on February 23 after suffering an unfortunate outbreak of new crown pneumonia.
“一朵盛开的鲜花，就这么飘落了。
"A blooming flower that floats away.
”2月24日上午，回忆起这位科室里最年轻的医生，协和江北医院消化内科主任邱海华眼圈通红，几度哽咽。
On the morning of February 24, remembering the department's youngest doctor, Qiu Hai-hua, director of the department and digested by the hospital's director of medicine, Qiu Hai-hua, choked.
空荡荡的病区里，同事们表情肃穆，沉默无语。
In the empty sick area, colleagues looked solemn and silent.
在她曾经用过的办公桌上，摆放着一根蜡烛、三个苹果、七捧鲜花、无数的千纸鹤，还有一个红色的听诊器，上面贴着写有主人姓名的标签：夏思思。
On the desk where she had worked was a candle, three apples, seven handfuls of flowers, countless thousands of cranes, and a red stethoscope tagged with the owner's name: Summer.
同事们在她生前用过的电脑上贴了四张她的照片，照片里的夏思思头戴花环，在一片春樱的映衬下，笑意盈盈。
Colleagues posted four photos of her on a computer she had used before her death, showing Xia thinking in a wreath of flowers, beaming in the background of a spring blossoms.
但这次，她没等到樱花盛开。
But this time she didn't wait for the cherry blossom.
1月14日，夏思思值夜班。
On January 14, Xia is on night shift.
当晚23时许，她接诊了一位76岁的病人。
At about 2300 that evening, she attended to a 76-year-old patient.
同事们事后回想起来，认为那是一次高危的接触。
Colleagues in retrospect thought of it as a high-risk encounter.
像往常一样，夏思思给这位病人做了相关检查，之后便交接班、下班回家。
As usual, Xiaxis gave the patient a proper examination and then handed him over and came home from work.
但还没到家，她接到通知说，该病人的检查结果显示疑似新冠肺炎，且病情较为严重。
But not yet home, she was informed that the patient's test results showed a suspected new crown pneumonia, and more serious.
夏思思立刻折回医院参与救治、协调专家会诊、汇报病人相关情况等。
Xia Sisisi immediately turned back to the hospital to participate in treatment, coordination of expert consultation, report patients related conditions.
在母亲姜文艳眼中，女儿就是这样的，总是把病人的事看得比家里的事还重要。
In the eyes of her mother Jiang Wenyan, this is the daughter, always regard the patient's affairs more important than the family matter.
“平常只要是科室一个电话，要会诊啊、抢救病人啊，她总是会及时协助领导把病人安顿好、诊治好……”这次，夏思思也没有丢下这位病人。
"Usually as long as the department is a telephone, to consult ah, rescue patients ah, she will always promptly assist the leadership of the patients well settled, diagnosis and treatment......" This time, Xia also did not leave the patient.
夏思思的丈夫、武汉市另一家医院的骨科医生吴石磊回忆说，1月14日，她一直忙到很晚，之后几天她住在医院，为那位病人协调会诊、联系转科转院……后来，这位病人转到传染科、转至定点医院。
Wu Shilei, Xia's husband and an orthopaedic surgeon at another Wuhan hospital, recalled that she had been busy late on January 14 and spent the next few days in a hospital coordinating consultations with the patient and transferring him to another hospital.
再后来，据邱海华说，病人已康复。
Later, according to Qiu Haihua, the patient had recovered.
但1月19日，下夜班回到家的夏思思突然高烧至39度多。
But on January 19th, when she came home from the night shift, she suddenly had a fever of more than 39 degrees.
经检查，她的肺部CT出现磨玻璃影，高度疑似新冠肺炎，于是便在协和江北医院接受隔离治疗。
Upon examination, CT of her lung appeared to grind glass shadow, high suspicion of New Crown Pneumonia, so she received isolation treatment at Concorde Jiangbei Hospital.
由于高烧不退，她又于1月25日转入协和江北医院济和病区，后来高烧退去，但出现了胸闷、憋喘等症状，好在通过治疗有明显好转。
Due to her high fever, she was transferred on 25 January to the economic and medical area of the hospital in Concorde Jiangbei, where she developed a high fever but developed chest tightness and pent-up symptoms. Fortunately, there was a marked improvement in treatment.
一家人曾经看到过希望的曙光。
The family had seen a glimmer of hope.
2月初，夏思思的身体状况一度好转，有两次核酸检测结果均显示阴性。
At the beginning of February, Shaanxi's health improved, with negative nucleic acid tests on two occasions.
当时家人都很高兴，夏思思还对母亲说，自己正月十五（2月8日）就可以出院了。
The family was very happy then. She told her mother that she would be able to leave the hospital on the 15th of the first month.
在和同事的群聊中，夏思思发送了一连串“秀肌肉”的表情，表达自己乐观的期待：“我会尽快归队的。
In a group chat with co-workers, she sent out a string of "muscle" expressions expressing optimism: "I'll be back as soon as possible.
”但没想到，2月6日晚，夏思思病情突然加重，次日转入武汉大学中南医院。
But I didn't expect that on the night of February 6, Xiaxi suddenly became seriously ill and transferred to Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital the next day.
转院后，她还曾突发呼吸、心跳骤停，医院连夜组织抢救，但病情没有好转。
After the transfer, she also had sudden breathing, cardiac arrest, the hospital overnight organization rescue, but the condition did not improve.
在随后的17天内，她一直处于昏迷状态，直至2月23日清晨去世。
For the following 17 days, she remained unconscious until her death in the early morning hours of 23 February.
“她没来得及给我们留下一句话，就昏迷了，再也没有醒过来。
She fainted before she could leave us a word, and never woke up again.
”吴石磊泪流满面。
"Mr. Wu wept.
过去一个多月里，夏思思两岁多的儿子一直被告知“妈妈在加班”。
For more than a month, Shaith's more than two-year-old son has been told his mother is working overtime.
直到今天，孩子仍在等着妈妈回家，听到家里电话响起，就抢着要接电话，以为那是妈妈打来的。
To this day, the child is still waiting for his mother home, heard the phone rang, rushed to answer the phone, thinking it was her mother.
在家人和朋友的眼中，夏思思是母亲、女儿、妻子、闺蜜，“是个平凡的人”。
In the eyes of family and friends, Xia is a mother, daughter, wife, boudoir, "is an ordinary person."
她和很多人一样爱吃麻辣锅，还会把头发染成草木灰色，喜欢旅游、会被“种草”口红。
Like many people, she likes to eat spicy pot, hair dye into grayish vegetation, like travel, will be "grass" lipstick.
“但在这次疫情中她很勇敢。
"But she was brave in the epidemic.
”吴石磊说。
"said Wu.
夏思思出生于医生家庭，她小时候就会学着父母的样子救治“病人”。
Born into a doctor's family, she learned to treat patients as a child by imitating her parents.
2014年从江汉大学临床医学专业毕业后，她也选择了医生这一职业，次年来到协和江北医院，成为消化内科最年轻的医生。
After graduating from clinical medicine at Jianghan University in 2014, she also took a career as a doctor, coming to Concorde Jiangbei Hospital the following year to become the youngest doctor in digestive medicine.
“健康所系，生命相托，她从小对这个就有理解。
"Health is what life is all about, and she understood it when she was young.
”母亲姜文艳说。
"said her mother, Jiang Wenyan.
同事都爱称呼她“小思思”“小甜甜”。
Colleagues love to call her "Little Think" and "Sweet."
长相甜美的她是个热心肠的人，总是乐于帮同事的忙，对于下乡、义诊也总是很积极。
Sweet-looking she is a warm-hearted person, always willing to help colleagues, for the countryside, free consultation is always very active.
在邱海华的印象里，夏思思对病人像对待亲人一样。
In Qiu Haihua's impression, Xiaxi treats the patient as if he were a relative.
“有位孤寡老人每次来医院就诊治疗，都点名要找夏思思。
"Every time a lonely old man came to the hospital for treatment, he called by name for his thoughts.
看到病人没有饭了，她还帮他买饭。
Seeing that the patient had no food, she also helped him buy food.
”医学泰斗裘法祖有句话：德不近佛者不可以为医，才不近仙者不可以为医。
Ju Fazu says that a man who is not near to a Buddhist cannot be a doctor, but one who is not near a fairy cannot be a doctor.
吴石磊觉得妻子做到了这两点，“也践行了我们读大学时就学习的医学誓言，救死扶伤，为人民服务”。
Wu felt his wife had done both, "and practiced the medical vows we took when we were in college to save lives and help the people."
现在，在夏思思办公桌旁边的墙上，还挂着病人送给她的锦旗，上面写着“医德高尚暖人心，医术精湛除病痛”。
Now, on the wall next to her desk in summer, hung a banner that had been given to her by the patient. It said, "Medical ethics is noble and warm, medical skill is superb."
锦旗下面，同事为她折的千纸鹤堆了一小箱，有人在千纸鹤的翅膀上写道：“一路走好，我们将会用生命接力，战胜疫情。
Beneath the banner, her colleagues piled a small box of paper cranes that she had folded. Someone wrote on the wings of a thousand-paper crane: "We will overcome the outbreak with a relay of life.
”中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
她没等到樱花开。
She didn't wait for the cherry blossoms.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "她没等到樱花开";。
var msg _ title = & quot; she didn't wait at Cherry & quot;;
var msg_desc = "女医生夏思思殉职";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; female doctor Charles & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
