「我在和死神抢病人」｜对话援鄂ICU医生李圣青。
"I am stealing patients with death," dialogue with Dr. Li Shengqing of Hubei province.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
「应收尽收」的当下，武汉最惊心动魄的战场已经转移到了重症病房。
"Receivable" of the moment, Wuhan's most exciting battlefield has been transferred to the intensive care unit.
2月22日下午5点，华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院光谷院区的ICU病区里，医生办公室的大屏幕正监控着每张病床的情况。
At 5: 00 p.m. on Feb. 22, the large screen of the doctor's office monitors each bed in the ICU ward of the Guanggu courtyard of Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
11床和19床的患者刚刚去世，护士在一根一根拔掉他们身上的管子。
The 11-bed and 19-bed patients had just died, and the nurses were pulling out tubes one by one.
几位医生站在屏幕前，看着房间里的一切，很沮丧。
Several doctors stood in front of the screen, looking at everything in the room, very depressed.
其中一位患者本不在危重名单内，上午评估时情况都还不错，下午便急转直下。
One of the patients, who was not on the critical list, did well in the morning and went into a steep afternoon.
一位医生说，「每个人都拼尽了全力想保（病人的）命，但是病情变化太快了，没有给你一点准备的机会。
"Everyone tried their best to keep [the patient's] life, but it changed so fast that you didn't have a chance to prepare," said one doctor.
」到了晚上，又传来消息，18床的患者也去世了。
"Later that evening word came that the 18-bed patient was dead, too.
一天之内，该院区ICU死亡3人。
Within a day, ICU in the compound killed three people.
同济医院光谷院区一共有17支医疗队，管理全院828张重症床位。
The Kwun Tong Hospital has 17 medical teams and manages 828 beds in the hospital.
其中上海华山医院医疗队，整编制接管了重症监护室，收的都是其他病区转运的危重症病人。
Among them, Shanghai Huashan Hospital Medical Team, the entire system took over the intensive care unit, are in other areas of transit of critically ill patients.
意外常常会发生，在他们的死亡病例里，有些病人是死在厕所里，有些吃饭吃到一半就去世了，根本来不及抢救。
Accidents often occur. In their deaths, some patients die in the toilet, while others die in the middle of their meals, without any time to save them.
从2月11日开始，每天下午3点，死亡讨论会在报告厅准时召开，17支队伍派出代表，讨论疑难与死亡病例。
Beginning on 11 February, at 3 p.m. each day, the seminar on deaths starts punctually in the lecture hall, with 17 teams sending representatives to discuss difficult and fatal cases.
一位医生在会上提到自己的患者在吃饭时突然去世，表达了痛苦和困惑：「怎么会这么快，这么猛？给人感觉一根稻草就把这个骆驼给压死了。
One doctor told the meeting that his patient had died suddenly while eating, expressing his pain and bewilderment: "How could it be so fast and so violent? It felt like a straw had crushed the camel to death."
」同济光谷院区ICU的负责人李圣青，是华山医院呼吸科主任，经历过SARS，但此次新冠疫情的惨烈程度仍在她的经验之外。
Li Shengqing, head of the ICU at Tongji Valley College, is the respiratory director of Huashan Hospital. She has experienced SARS, but the severity of the new outbreak is still beyond her experience.
她把自己的工作总结为「和死神抢病人」。
She summed up her work as "robbing the sick with death."
在ICU的病床上，会看到有的病人已经上了几台机器，「那么小小的身躯被一群机器围住，很多病人都是这样，完全被机器围绕了……我是觉得真是太惨烈，如果你在我们ICU长期干，你会知道简直太惨烈了，太惨烈了。
In the ICU hospital bed, there are patients who are already on several machines, "so small a body surrounded by a group of machines, a lot of patients are like this, completely surrounded by machines... I think it is really terrible, if you work in our ICU for a long time, you will know it is too terrible, too cruel.
」在经历了几位病人的去世之后，李圣青一直在呼吁关口前移，提前介入，提前治疗。
"After the death of several patients, Li has been calling for the barrier to be moved forward, for early intervention and for early treatment.
目前同济医院光谷院区的死亡率，已经低于大多数医院。
At present, the mortality rate of Guanggu courtyard district of Tongji Hospital is lower than that of most hospitals.
以下是《人物》记者与李圣青的对话。
Here is the dialogue between People and Li Shengqing.
文｜罗婷编辑｜糖槭《人物》：你接管ICU已经十多天了，刚开始时是什么感受？李圣青 ：当初决定要来，就是想，我是搞呼吸危重症的，武汉前线这么多同道倒下，病人死去，我坐不住，心里着急，所以就来了。
less than ten days since you took over the ICU, how did you feel at first? Li Shengqing: When I decided to come, I was thinking that I was suffering from severe respiratory distress, so many comrades in Wuhan frontline collapsed and the patients died.
我经历过SARS，知道该怎么做。
I've been through SARS, and I know what to do.
但到了之后，让我崩溃的一点是我们所谓的重症ICU，还只有床和床头柜（注：该院区的ICU是临时改造的），但要收最重的病人。
But then, one of the things that broke me down was what we called ICU, with only beds and bedside cabinets, but with the heaviest patients.
所以想尽一切办法，先把心电监护仪、呼吸机都搜罗过来。
So think of all means, first electrocardiograph monitor, respirator all search come over.
到现在，呼吸机基本配置够了，有将近30台有创呼吸机。
By now, the ventilator is basically in place, with nearly 30 invasive breathing machines.
实际上，我们这儿的病人都要上有创（呼吸机）的，因为在普通病区，吸氧和无创他都给病人上过了，如果还搞不定，到这儿来一定是要插管的。
As a matter of fact, all of our patients are going to have invasive [ventilator] because in the common area, he has been given oxygen and non-invasive treatment, and if he can't, he must have been intubated here.
我们一共30张床，最多的时候有27个病人插管。
We have a total of 30 beds and a maximum of 27 patients with intubation.
《人物》：你反复提到「关口前移」，是在什么状况下得到的这个结论？李圣青：之所以这么提，是因为有血的教训。
People: How did you come to this conclusion when you repeatedly referred to the "Pass-Forward"? Li Shengqing: The reason for this mention is the lesson of blood.
应该是四天前吧，我进去查房，所有病人我挨个看了一遍，把呼吸机也调了一遍，病人都很平稳，我还挺开心的，我觉得今天可能不会有病人死了，很高兴地脱了防护服出去，还没走到医生办公室，他们就告诉我，15床成直线了，4床也成直线了，这简直是太让我吃惊了，你想想我是什么感受。
I went in four days ago, I went in, I looked at all the patients, I adjusted the ventilator, the patient was calm, I was happy, I thought maybe no patients died today, I was happy to take off my suit, and before I got to the doctor's office, they told me that the bed was straight and the beds were straight.
那两个病人还都是没上（有创）呼吸机的啊，他们无创吹得好好的，指脉氧也挺好的，大概是92%、93%，因为当时指南（指《新型冠状病毒诊疗方案》）中说，指脉氧维持在88%到93%之间就可以，我想在这个范围嘛，是不是就不需要给他升级插管呢？结果就这样了。
The two patients were not on the (invasive) ventilator, they played well, and the phalanx was good, about 92% and 93%, because the guideline (New Coronavirus Diagnosis and Treatment Program) said that finger oxygen was between 88% and 93%.
所以我下定决心，一定要关口前移。
So I made up my mind to move forward.
《人物》：成直线了，是不是就意味着已经是无法抢救了？李圣青：对，就是这样一个结局。
People: In a straight line, doesn't it mean there is no way to save themLee: Yes, that's the end.
指南写的（指脉氧）范围是88%到93%，我就提升到93%以上，如果你达不到93%，我就要给你插管。
From 88 percent to 93 percent, I've been promoted to over 93 percent, and if you're less than 93 percent, I'm going to intubate you.
（甚至）93%、94%我都认为是危险的。
I think 93% and 94% are dangerous.
在患病后期，病情是呈加速度地发展和恶化。
In the late stage of illness, the disease develops and deteriorates at an accelerated rate.
我吃过这么多次亏之后，现在反复强调，关口前移，再前移都没有错，但如果错过了抢救这个病人的机会，真的就是无法挽回了。
After so many losses, I now repeat that there is nothing wrong with moving forward or moving forward, but if I miss the chance to save the patient, it is really irretrievable.
《人物》：你说「吃过多次亏」，就是说这样的事情不止发生过一次？李圣青：还有一个病人，我查房的时候发现他在吸氧情况下，95%已经维持不住了，只有93%。
People: You said "ate many times," which means that this kind of thing happened more than once? Li Shengqing: Another patient, when I checked in, found that 95% of them could not hold up under the oxygen condition, only 93%.
马上给他上了无创（呼吸机），上了之后发现改善还是不明显，还是93%，我就跟他的主管医生说，立刻要插管上呼吸机，请了插管队来。
Immediately he was given a non-invasive (ventilator), and when I saw that the improvement was still not noticeable, or 93%, I told his doctor in charge that the ventilator should be intubated immediately and asked the intubation team to come.
但插管队犹豫，说病人坚决不同意。
But the intubation team hesitated, saying the patient strongly disagreed.
我说你不管他，我跟他家属联系，你先赶紧给我穿了衣服进去。
I said you don't care about him. I'll get in touch with his family. You get dressed first.
他们穿衣服进去，我就征得家属同意。
When they get dressed, I ask my family for permission.
等麻醉科医生进去插管的时候，他的指脉氧在无创的情况下只有85%，就半个小时，掉得这么快。
By the time the anesthesiologist entered the catheter, his phalanx was only 85% non-invasive, just half an hour, falling so fast.
紧急插上管之后，现在100%。
100% now after emergency tube insertion.
所以为什么我反复提关口前移的问题，如果等他85%、86%，我们穿好衣服再进去，你就不用进去了，病人已经结束了，真的就是这么快。
So why do I keep asking the question of the forward movement of the barrier, if we wait for him 85%, 86%, and we get dressed and go in, you don't have to go in, the patient is over, really fast.
李圣青（左一）在和医护人员讨论病人病情受访者供图《人物》：指脉氧85%，这个数据意味着什么？李圣青：意味着严重的呼吸衰竭，马上就要死人了，也意味着你要在三五分钟内给他插管解决。
Li Shengqing (1st from left) is discussing with healthcare personnel the patient's condition What does this figure mean for People 85% VDV Li Shenqing: It means severe respiratory failure and is going to die soon, which also means you need to intubate him in three or five minutes.
《人物》：为什么能快到这个程度，就像你说的，争分夺秒。
PEOPLE: Why is it fast enough, like you said, to race against the clock?
李圣青：这是这个疾病的特点决定的，进展非常迅速，而且是多脏器功能的损害，尤其是危及心脏和肾脏。
Li Shenqing: This disease is characterized by very rapid progress, but also multi-organ function damage, especially endanger the heart and kidneys.
很多病人都是因为爆发性心肌炎，引起心衰、猝死，发生率非常高。
Many patients are due to burst myocarditis, cause heart failure, sudden death, the incidence is very high.
他们呼吸都好好的，是死于心功能衰竭，心跳骤停。
They were breathing well, dying of heart failure and cardiac arrest.
我感觉我每天像打仗一样，就是在和死神在抢病人。
I feel like I'm fighting every day, fighting with death.
他抢我也抢，看谁抢得厉害，看谁手快。
He snatched me and robbed me to see who could do it well and who could do it quickly.
我一眨眼他就抢了好几个病人走，我就关口前移，先给你把住，否则根本来不及反应。
He robbed several patients in the blink of an eye, and I moved on, holding you first, or there would be no time to react.
不是说像普通病房，这个病人还挺好的，再等等，等到他不行的时候，你说哎呀要插管了插管了，穿了半个小时防护服进来，不用进来，不用穿了。
It's not like the general ward. The patient is fine. Wait a minute. When he doesn't do it, you say alas he's got a cannula and a half-hour's worth of protective clothing.
《人物》：上次死亡讨论会上一位医生说，ICU大多数的新冠病人不是死在床上，而是在厕所，还有在吃饭时突然去世。
People: A doctor at the last death conference said most of the new-crown patients at the ICU died not in bed, but in the toilet, and died suddenly while eating.
据说还有病人是在无创转有创的那几分钟里去世的，为什么会这样？李圣青：其实病人已经处于氧耗竭状态，没有任何的氧储备。
It is said that other patients died in the non-invasive minutes, why is this happening? Li: Actually the patient is in a state of oxygen depletion and has no oxygen reserve.
只要离开了呼吸支持，不能够维持重要脏器的氧供应，很快就会死掉。
As long as you're out of breath support, you can't maintain the oxygen supply to your vital organs, and you'll soon die.
有时候对这个疾病还是轻敌了，这样的病人要尽快上呼吸机、插管。
Sometimes this disease or a light enemy, such a patient to the ventilator, intubation as soon as possible.
有时候晚了一分钟，就再没机会了。
Sometimes it's a minute late, and there's no chance.
（注：会上医生们的讨论显示，并非每个死亡病例，医生们都知道死因。
(Note: The doctors' discussion at the meeting showed that not every case of death is known to the doctors.
因为很难做到在移动危重症病人去做CT和心脏超声的同时，还给他们供氧，所以一些医生表示，有时不能及时发现病人身体的细微变化。
Because it is difficult to move critically ill patients for CT and cardiac ultrasound while giving them oxygen, some doctors say that sometimes subtle changes in the patient's body cannot be detected in time.
也因为很多病人都有基础性疾病，他们最终是否死于原有的其他疾病，也需要讨论。
It also needs to be discussed whether many patients will eventually die of other diseases because they have basic diseases.
李圣青的做法是每隔五到十分钟记录病人的相关数据，比如心率、血压、呼吸、氧饱和等等，看看病人是死于心衰，还是呼衰，还是其他问题。
Li's plan is to keep track of patients' heart rate, blood pressure, breathing, oxygen saturation, etc. every five to ten minutes to see if the patient has died of heart failure, respiratory failure or other problems.
）《人物》：如果是这样的情况，关口前移，具体可以有哪些措施？李圣青：如果危及肾脏的话，那我们可以肾替代治疗，这倒没关系。
Li Shenqing: If the kidney is in danger, then we can replace it with kidneys, that's OK.
危及心脏呢，我现在想到的提前介入的方法就是先上IABP（主动脉内球囊反搏，是机械性辅助循环方法之一，能增加冠状动脉供血、改善心肌功能）。
In terms of heart risk, the way I'm thinking of early intervention is to go up to IABP, one of the mechanically assisted circulatory methods that increase coronary blood flow and improve cardiac function.
我把这一项介入操作提前，起到一个心脏辅助作用。
I put this intervention forward to play a heart-assisted role.
而事实证明，我们把这个提前确实也降低了死亡率。
And it turns out that by bringing this forward, we actually reduced the death rate.
如果危及肺脏，就先插管，我们重症ICU很多送进来，氧饱和70%、 80%，这属于抢救的，肯定要插管，不用犹豫。
If the lung is at risk, intubation is the first step. Many of our ICU patients are brought in. Oxygen is 70% and 80%.
还有一些有疑惑，93%、94%，你觉得还行啊，到底插不插？你再问病人，病人说我不插，你就犹豫。
And some people have doubts, 93%, 94%, you think OK, after all, insert or not? Ask the patient again, the patient says I don't interpose, you hesitate.
你敢犹豫半个小时，他也就没命了。
If you hesitate for half an hour, he will die.
一个奄奄一息的重症病人 尹夕远 摄《人物》：你是呼吸科主任，也经历过SARS，之前见过这样的场景吗？李圣青：没有，虽然我搞呼吸危重症，但也没有见过这么大的场面。
Yin Xi Yuan, a critically ill patient on the verge of death: Are you a respiratory director and have experienced SARS before? Li Shengqing: No, I'm breathing critically, but I haven't seen anything like this.
我病房里头可能有三四个这样的，最重也就是这样的病例，但没有这么密集，大家都已经累得脚不沾地了。
There were probably three or four of them in my room, the heaviest cases of all, but they were not so dense that everyone was tired to the ground.
SARS的时候我还在西京医院呼吸科，接触的病人也都是比较轻的。
SARS when I was still in the Xijing Hospital breathing department, contact patients are also relatively light.
这是我生平第一次，30张床，27个在插管，一个上ECMO，还有5、6个都在做肾替代治疗。
For the first time in my life, 30 beds, 27 in the cannula, 1 on ECMO, and 5 or 6 in renal replacement therapy.
我们把所有的手段都上上，硬是拉住病人不让死，现在就是这种情况。
We put all our means on the table, and held the patient to death, as it is now.
《人物》：我们今天在病房看到，有一位病人上了三台机器，ECMO、肾代替治疗和呼吸机。
PEOPLE: We saw today in the ward that a patient was on three machines, ECMO, renal replacement therapy, and respirator.
李圣青：是，那么小小的身躯被一群机器围住，很多病人都是这样，完全被机器围绕了，多惨。
Li Shengqing: Yes, so small body surrounded by a group of machines, many patients are like this, completely surrounded by machines, how sad.
你看看就知道，我们做出多大的努力一定要留住他。
You'll see how hard we're trying to keep him.
我是觉得真是太惨烈，如果你在我们ICU长期干，你会知道简直太惨烈了，太惨烈了。
I think it's terrible. If you work in our ICU for a long time, you'll know it's too terrible. It's terrible.
而且你想想，每一个病人死的时候，周围没有任何亲人，都是我们这种陌生人，而且陌生人他连脸都看不到，眼睛还是在护目镜后面。
And you see, every patient dies with no relatives around, strangers like us, and he can't even see his face and his eyes are behind the goggles.
死了之后，他家里人能领到的就是一盒骨灰，是不是太悲惨了。
When he died, all his family received was a box of ashes. Isn't it too tragic?
每一个人他活在世界上他都值得被爱，值得被尊重。
Every man he lives in the world deserves to be loved and respected.
但是就是因为这个疫情，让武汉很多的新冠肺炎患者在离去的时候毫无尊严，毫无爱的感受。
But just because of the outbreak, Wuhan so many of the new crown pneumonia patients left with no dignity, no feelings of love.
《人物》：而且从监控里看，病房里每个医护人员的工作量都非常大，一直都没有停。
PEOPLE: And from the monitoring, every medical worker in the ward has a huge workload that never stops.
李圣青：因为病情的瞬息万变，我要求医生根据病情的需要，随时查看病人、巡视病房，在里面就是跑个不停。
Li: Because of the rapid change of his condition, I asked the doctor to check the patient and visit the ward at any time according to the needs of his condition.
另外每个插管病人配一个护士，护士每30分钟要去巡视一次，不停地巡视，随时发现病情变化，随时调整治疗方案。
In addition, each intubation patient with a nurse, nurses every 30 minutes to visit, constantly on the lookout for changes, ready to adjust the treatment plan.
真的就是像在打仗，所以我跟他们说，我们都是生死之交的战友。
It was really like a war, so I told them we were all close friends.
我们现在的床护比1比6，一张床6个护士。
We now have a bed-to-bed ratio of 6 to 1, 6 nurses per bed.
平常的ICU 1比3，有时候还可能1比2吧。
The usual ICU is 1: 3, and sometimes maybe 1: 2.
短期之内这么多的重症病人，而且你工作时间有限，一般就4到6个小时，时间再长，防护作用失去了，这种情况我绝对不可能让大家冒险的。
With so many seriously ill patients in a short period of time, and with limited working hours, typically between four and six hours, the longer the time, the less protective effect is lost, I would never be able to put everyone at risk.
重症监护室医生办公室的监控屏幕受访者供图《人物》：大家也会觉得，这已经是全中国最知道怎么把人留住的一群人了，但是有些死亡还是不可避免。
Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Surveillance Screen Interviewer: People, you know, is one of the best people in China who knows how to keep people, but some deaths are inevitable.
李圣青：对，为什么病人上厕所他就死，为什么他吃口饭他就死，这说明我们对这个疾病的严重性缺少一个预判和预估。
Li: Yes, why does a patient die when he goes to the toilet, and why he dies when he takes a mouthful, which means we lack a prejudgement and estimate of the severity of the disease.
关口前移之后，你就可以避免他吃饭死，上厕所死，就是降低死亡率。
By moving forward, you can prevent him from eating, dying in the bathroom, and lowering his death rate.
我现在目的就是降低死亡率，其他先不谈，我先把能用的手段我全部用上，生命支持手段先全支持上，先保住他的命，先让他不死，后面我慢慢再来了。
My goal now is to reduce the death rate, and before I say anything else, I'll use all the means at my disposal, support his life first, save his life first, and then I'll come back slowly.
《人物》：在ICU，还有一小部分病人是清醒的、可以表达的，他们说得最多的是什么？李圣青：其实也没有说什么，我发现病人有一个特点，进了ICU之后，好像他们自己都做好最坏的打算了，这个ICU就是最后一站。
People: In the ICU, there is a small number of patients who are sober and expressive, what they say the most? Li Shenqing: In fact, I did not say anything, I found a patient after the ICU, as if they were prepared for the worst, this ICU is the last stop.
能不能出去都是个问号，我们现在总共也就出去了5个人。
It's a question mark if we can get out. We've got five people out now.
《人物》：插管之后，他们是否还有变好的可能性，有多大？李圣青：我们在努力，现在是维持住，不准死，先给你拽住在这儿，这样我们还有机会。
People: Do they have any chance of getting better after the intubation? Lee: We're trying, we're trying, we're not going to die, just drag you in here, so we have a chance.
之前我们有个相对比较轻的病人，已经拔管了。
We had a relatively light patient who had been unplugged.
明天我挑一个病人让他做一下SBT（自主呼吸测试）——就是把呼吸机的各种参数下调，把对他的支持下调，我看他的自主呼吸情况怎么样，如果可以的话，我就给他脱机，但我还给他戴着管子，我随时可以接上，如果他脱机之后他都很好，那我就可以安全地拔。
Tomorrow I'll pick one of my patients for SBT - lowering the parameters of the ventilator and lowering his support downwards. I'll see how he breathes autonomously. If I can, I'll take him offline, but I still have a hose on him, and if he's all right offline, I can pull it safely.
现在他们得到了足够的呼吸支持，之后就是精细化的重症ICU管理，我希望再通过多学科协作，让我们这些插管的病人能够尽可能脱机，离开ICU，这就是我们下一步努力奋斗的目标。
Now that they have enough breathing support, and then fine-grained ICU management, I hope that through multidisciplinary collaboration, we intubated patients will be able to leave the ICU as offline as possible, which is what we will strive for next.
红十字医院重症监护室，医生在进行抢救工作尹夕远 摄。
Red Cross hospital intensive care unit, doctors in the rescue work Yin Xi Yuan.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「我在和死神抢病人」｜对话援鄂ICU医生李圣青。
"I am stealing patients with death," dialogue with Dr. Li Shengqing of Hubei province.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「我在和死神抢病人」｜对话援鄂ICU医生李圣青";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "I'm fighting with death," dialogue with Dr. Li Shengqing;;;
var msg_desc = "离开ICU，这就是我们下一步努力奋斗的目标。
var msg _ desc = & quot; leaving the ICU, that's what we're trying to do next.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
