在人间丨孕妇的至暗时刻。
The darkest hour in the human world.
佳怡。
Jia Yi.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品28岁的幻境（化名）一直在等待新生命的到来，这是她初次怀孕。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet produced 28-year-old fantasy (alias) in the world studio has been waiting for a new life, this is her first pregnancy.
第12周的产检，却让她的期待化成泡影。
The 12th week of checkups, however, turned her expectations to naught.
新生命戛然而止，她必须去医院做手术。
The new life came to an abrupt end and she had to go to the hospital for surgery.
然而，一场全国范围内新冠肺炎病毒的突袭，使得她的住院之路异常艰辛。
However, a nationwide raid on the New Crown Pneumonia virus made her hospitalization difficult.
她历尽周折，终于住进医院。
After much ado, she was admitted to the hospital.
那一刻，她突然觉得，自己仿佛是在黑暗时刻看到了一束光芒。
At that moment, she suddenly felt as if she had seen a beam of light in the dark.
2月5日，怀孕12周多的上海孕妇幻境像往常一样，前往自己的建档医院做NT，以进行胎儿早期唐氏综合征的风险评估。
On February 5, Shanghai pregnant women with more than 12 weeks of pregnancy went to their own construction hospital for NT to assess the risk of early foetal Down syndrome.
肚子里这个去年12月份出现的小生命，给她全家都带来了巨大的喜悦。
The presence of this tiny life in her tummy last December brought great joy to her family.
幻境更是小心翼翼：上下班不再坐公交车，而是拼车；疫情爆发前去医院，她也都会戴着口罩。
Mirage is even more gingerly: commuters no longer ride buses, but carpool cars; she wears masks even before the outbreak.
为了保胎，春节期间，她没有像往年那样回宁夏老家过年。
In order to protect the fetus, she did not return to her hometown in Ningxia for the Spring Festival.
幻境来到产检室外，等着被叫号。
Fantasy comes to the maternity ward and waits to be called.
她手里提着一些糖果，在门外来回踱步。
She paced up and down the door with some candy in her hand.
今天就能看到小孩的样子了。
I can see the baby today.
她之前听好多孕妇朋友说起，做NT的时候，小孩会调皮，B超医生可能看不到颈部，这时医生会让孕妈出去走一走，吃一些甜食，让小宝宝兴奋起来。
She had heard a lot of pregnant friends before, when doing NT, children will be naughty, B ultrasound doctors may not see the neck, the doctor will let pregnant mothers out to walk, eat some sweet food, so that the baby excited.
她时不时地摸摸肚子，默默地告诉小宝宝，到时候要好好配合医生哦。
From time to time she would feel her stomach and silently tell the baby to cooperate with the doctor.
随后她进入了B超室。
Then she went into the B-room.
幻境躺下后，医生做扫描，然后突然问她，“你之前有什么不正常吗？有没有出血？”她愣住了。
After lying down, the doctor did a scan, and then suddenly asked her, "What was wrong with you? Was there any bleeding?" She was stunned.
胎早停了，在63天左右的时候就停掉了。
The baby stopped early and stopped about 63 days later.
晴天霹雳。
The thunderbolt.
幻境觉得自己起不来了。
Fantasy felt that it could not get up.
她哭着问医生，小孩还有没有救？B超医生回答：“胎停很久了，很危险，需要马上做手术。
She cried and asked the doctor if the child could be saved "The baby has had a very long and dangerous stop and needs an operation right away.
”医生说胎停可能是因为胚胎本身发育不好，也有可能是外界原因。
Doctors say the abort may have been caused by the embryo's poor development or by external factors.
可是幻境真的想不起来到底哪里出了问题。
But Mirage really can't remember what went wrong.
今年1月，在该妇幼保健院建档时，各项检查都很正常。
In January of this year, when the mother and child health-care centre was opened, the checks were normal.
最后一次1月13号的B超检查也很正常。
The last B-scan on January 13 was also normal.
即使幻境有时会有小腹和腰部疼痛，但也只是轻微的，且当时医生跟她说过“没关系的”。
Even if the illusion sometimes has pain in the lower abdomen and waist, it is only mild, and the doctor told her "it's OK."
她不知道自己是怎么从B超室里走出来的。
She doesn't know how she got out of the B-room.
丈夫搀扶着她回到产科见了医生。
The husband helped her to go back to the obstetrics department to see the doctor.
“有没有可能保得住？”她一直在哭。
"Is it possible to take care of it?" She kept crying.
产科医生说不可能了，胎停太久了。
The obstetrician said that's impossible. It's been a long time.
幻境无法接受这一事实，她又去询问计划生育科医生。
Unable to accept this fact, she went back to the family planning doctor.
“我真的很想要这个孩子，求求你，能不能帮帮我保住这个孩子？”然而医生的回答也是否定的：“优胜劣汰，很有可能就是胚胎自身不好，现在已经停了这么多天了，没有办法保的。
"I really want this baby, please, can you help me keep it?" But the doctor's answer was no: "The best odds, most likely, is that the embryo itself is bad.
跟你说死掉了，你要赶紧做手术。
I'm telling you it's dead. You need an operation.
”这句话让幻境感到一丝绝望。
"This sentence gave the illusion a trace of despair.
“医生对我说，‘跟你说了这么多，你听不懂吗？’我很想要这个孩子，可是没想到一个小生命就这样戛然而止了。
"The doctor said to me, 'Did you not understand what I said to you?' I wanted the child very much, but I didn't expect a life to come to an abrupt end.
”最后，幻境只能接受现实。
In the end, fantasy can only accept reality.
在被告知有大出血的可能后，她想要尽快做手术。
She wanted to have an operation as soon as she was told there was a risk of haemorrhage.
医院给她开了一张住院申请单，让她回家等通知。
The hospital gave her a request for admission to the hospital and told her to wait until she got home.
回到家后，幻境情绪很低落，她不敢相信自己的宝宝已经没有了。
When she got home, the mood was so low that she could not believe her baby was gone.
“是不是医院的仪器坏了，也可能是小宝宝开玩笑呢，说不定后面又会有心跳呢？”那几天，她几乎每日以泪洗面，甚至想到了死亡。
"Is the hospital equipment broken, or maybe the baby is joking, or maybe there will be a heartbeat?" She cried almost daily, even thinking of death.
远在宁夏的妈妈打视频电话来安慰她，怕她有什么想不开的，还说要是女儿有什么事情她也活不下去了。
Ningxia's mother made a video phone call to comfort her, afraid she had something wrong, and said that if her daughter had something she would not survive.
2月7日，医院打来电话通知她10号去办理住院。
On February 7, the hospital called her and told her to go to the hospital on February 10th.
挂完电话，她还是抱着一丝侥幸。
After hanging up the phone, she was still holding a bit of luck.
她心想，或许等到10号手术前，小宝宝会再次被检测出心跳的。
Perhaps, she thought, the baby would be tested for heartbeat again before surgery No. 10.
在家等待住院和手术的日子里，幻境的丈夫也在查其他的专科医院，准备挂号再去看医生。
While waiting to be hospitalized and operated on, Mirage's husband was checking out other specialist hospitals, ready to register and see a doctor.
他们在线咨询了另一家妇产科医院的专家。
They consulted another obstetrics and gynaecology hospital online.
专家说这种情况要符合急诊才会安排手术，否则还是要走门诊程序。
Experts say the condition requires emergency treatment before an operation can be arranged, or an out-patient procedure is required.
他们还在网上挂了这家妇产科医院的门诊，结果却被短信告知门诊停诊了。
They also hung up the gynecology and obstetrics hospital clinic on the net, only to be informed by text message that the outpatient consultation had stopped.
医院的官方网站上写道，“因当前新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的严峻形势，为保障您和您家人的安全，自2020年2月6日起，周末所有门诊暂停；所有专科（PICC门诊除外）门诊暂停；中西医门诊暂停；门诊非急性手术暂停。
"Due to the severe situation of pneumonia due to the new coronavirus infection, all outpatient clinics will be suspended on weekends starting from February 6, 2020," the hospital's official website said.
再次开诊时间将另行通知。
Further appointments will be made.
那就只能去自己建档的医院做手术了，她想。
Then she had to go to the hospital where she had built her own, she thought.
2月10日早晨5点，幻境打出租车去医院。
At 5 a.m. on February 10, Mirage took a taxi to the hospital.
担心手术后体虚，她穿了一件秋衣、一件毛衣和一件羽绒服。
Worried about the postoperative deficiency, she wore an autumn coat, a sweater and a down jacket.
虽然家里的口罩储存已经不够了，她还是拿出了新的口罩戴上。
She took out a new mask and put it on despite the fact that she no longer had enough masks in her house.
到了医院，她在门口测了体温，被允许通行。
When she arrived at the hospital, she took her temperature at the door and was allowed to pass.
随后她来到住院部，坐在走廊前的椅子上等候。
Then she went to the inpatient department and sat in a chair in front of the hallway waiting.
8点左右，医生护士陆陆续续来上班。
About eight o'clock, a doctor's nurse trickled in.
登记住院时，护士给她测体温，结果一只耳朵是37.4度，另一只是37.6度。
When she was admitted to the hospital, the nurse took her temperature. As a result, one ear was 37.4 degrees and the other 37.6 degrees.
护士觉得温度偏高，就让幻境等一会儿再测。
The nurse felt the temperature was high, so let the illusion wait for a moment.
可是结果还是偏高，一只37.3度，另外一只37.4度。
But the result was still high, one at 37.3 degrees and the other at 37.4 degrees.
“这个人不能让她住，医生不收，”一个护士突然跑来说。
"This person can't let her live, the doctor doesn't," said a nurse, suddenly running.
另一个护士建议幻境去找医生询问。
Another nurse advised Mirage to see a doctor.
幻境怔了。
He was in a trance.
“我这胎停一个多月了，再不做怎么办？”她随即拿着病历单去找了医生。
"I stopped this tire more than a month, how to do not do again?" She immediately took the chart to the doctor.
在知道幻境已经量了两遍体温后，医生对护士说道，“第一遍量37.6度，你就直接不收，现在为什么还写一个37.3，你还要收她？（这个病人）不能住。
After knowing that the vision had been taken twice, the doctor said to the nurse, "The first time you measure 37.6 degrees, you don't take it directly.
我跟你说过这个病人不收，你为什么还让这个病人来找我？”幻境察觉到医生的不耐烦，但她仍存有一丝希望，便继续问道，“我情况很危险，怎么办呢？”“我也没办法，” 医生回复道，并建议幻境等体温稳定了重新去挂门诊，让门诊给约手术。
Why did you let this patient come to me, I told you? Phantom sensed impatience on the part of the doctor, but she still had a glimmer of hope, and went on to ask, "I'm in danger, what?" "I can't help it," the doctor replied, suggesting that Phantom return to the clinic when his body temperature stabilizes and have an appointment.
但是前提是，“体温一定要下来。
But the premise is, "The temperature must come down.
”幻境知道现在是疫情期间，医院也都很谨慎。
Mirage knew it was an epidemic, and hospitals were cautious.
她没有多说什么，和丈夫回家了。
She said nothing more and went home with her husband.
“我被请出了医院，很无助，”她说道。
"I was asked out of the hospital, helpless," she said.
回到家之后，幻境就不断地给自己测体温，一直在36.9度到37.2度之间波动。
Back home, Mirage kept measuring its temperature, fluctuating between 36.9 degrees and 37.2 degrees.
第二天，她打开这家医院的微信官方平台，咨询一位医师，她是否可以去住院，得到的回答还是否定的。
The next day, she opened the official microphone platform of the hospital and asked a doctor if she could go to the hospital. The answer was no.
“体温高需要去发热门诊排除疫情影响，体温正常才能手术，不然术后会感染，”医生在平台上回复道。
"Hyperthermia requires a fever clinic to rule out the epidemic and a normal body temperature before surgery, or it can infect after surgery," the doctor said on the platform.
这家三级甲等专科医院并没有发热门诊。
There is no fever clinic in this level III specialist hospital.
“伴有发热的患者或孕产妇请至上海市设有发热门诊且有妇产科的医疗机构就诊。
"With fever patients or pregnant women, please go to Shanghai with a fever clinic and gynecology and obstetrics medical institutions.
”医院客服中心的微信页面上显示。
The micromail page of the hospital's customer service centre shows it.
也就意味着，幻境需要先去上海其他设有发热门诊的定点医院做检查。
This means that Mirage first needs to go to other designated hospitals in Shanghai with a fever clinic.
而国家卫健委于2月2日发布的《关于做好儿童和孕产妇新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》中明确指出，孕产妇是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的易感人群。
On February 2, the State Council of Health issued the Notice on the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Infected by the New Coronavirus in Children and Pregnant Women, which clearly states that pregnant women are susceptible to pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus.
幻境十分担心自己要是去了发热定点医院会受到感染。
Mirage is worried about getting infected if she goes to a hot spot hospital.
平时别人感冒都会受到感染的她，不敢冒这个险。
Usually other people's cold will be infected by her, dare not take this risk.
她在家尝试了各种各样的降温方法。
She tried all kinds of cooling methods at home.
除了一直拿湿毛巾敷在额头上，她拼命给自己灌水，有时在身体上擦点儿酒精，也服了些小柴胡颗粒等等。
In addition to applying wet towels to her forehead, she tried to fill herself with water, sometimes wiping some alcohol on her body and taking some of the Bupleurum granules.
但是都不奏效。
But it didn't work.
“我那天已经有点儿流血了，有褐色的血出来了，而且肚子有一种要来大姨妈的感觉”，幻境慌了。
"I was bleeding a little that day, there was brown blood, and I had a feeling that I was coming to my aunt," he said.
朋友在网上帮她咨询了妇产科专家，专家回复：胎停一般超过两周，不处理就会出现凝血功能障碍，导致出血多。
Friends on the Internet to help her consultation with obstetrician-gynaecologists, expert response: fetal stop generally more than two weeks, will not deal with coagulation dysfunction, resulting in more than bleeding.
必须尽快住院手术。
Inpatient surgery must be performed quickly.
幻境自己也继续在线上咨询医生，她还求助了红房子的医生。
Mirage continued to consult her doctor online, and she went to the doctor in the red house.
然而得到的回复和妇婴院一样：但凡是有点轻烧的都不收。
However, the response is the same as that of the maternity home: but anything slightly light is not taken.
如果要挂急诊需要符合急诊的标准，比如出血很严重才会收。
If the emergency needs to meet the criteria for emergency care, such as severe bleeding will be collected.
即使幻境告诉医生，她已经有褐色分泌物了，医生的回复依然是需要她在家先把体温降下来，或者去发热门诊排除自己是新冠肺炎患者。
Even if Phantom tells the doctor that she has brown secretions, the doctor replies that she needs to take her temperature down at home first, or to go to the fever clinic to rule out being a New Crown Pneumonia patient.
“我觉得很绝望，躺在家里的时候就感觉自己在等死，” 幻境说。
"I felt desperate and I felt like I was dying when I was at home," says Fantasy.
远在宁夏老家的父母也很着急。
Parents far back in Ningxia are also worried.
幻境的妈妈打电话来说道，“你在这里躺着，要是大出血，你都来不及去医院，这个很危险！”在那一刻，幻境突然很希望自己感染了新冠肺炎。
"You're lying here, you can't make it to the hospital if you bleed so much, that's dangerous!" At that moment, Mirage suddenly wanted to get the new crown pneumonia.
“与其在家里等死不如我感染了新冠肺炎，医院给我治。
"Instead of waiting at home to die, I got pneumonia, the hospital treated me.
我感染了，医院肯定收我，收了我之后他们肯定会给我处理的。
I'm infected. The hospital's gonna take me in. They're gonna take care of it when they take me.
不至于像现在这样我低烧，都还要自己去排除，我也不知道去哪里排除。
I do not like the current low fever, I have to eliminate their own, I do not know where to remove.
”自己会染上新冠肺炎吗？幻境开始回忆。
Will you get yourself a new crown pneumonia? Fantasy begins to recall.
自从21号不上班后，她就一直呆在家里。
She has been staying at home since the 21st has been out of work.
虽然新闻上大年初一初二的时候已经报道疫情很严重了，但是幻境在的小区似乎没什么反应，那个时候马路上散步的人也不怎么戴口罩。
Although the news on the first two days of the New Year has been reported very serious epidemic, but phantasmagoria in the community seems to have little response, when strollers on the road were not very wearing masks.
大年初一之前，楼下的小吃店每天早晨有人排队买包子，也没什么人戴口罩。
Before the New Year's Day, the snack bar downstairs had people queuing up every morning to buy steamed buns, and few wore masks.
不过她还是觉得自己不太可能感染上，因为她几乎一直呆在家里。
Still, she felt less likely to get infected, as she stayed almost at home all the time.
幻境不想等死。
Delusions don't wait to die.
她之前就是担心去设有发热门诊的医院会引发交叉感染，才去的专科的妇婴保健院。
She had been worried that going to a hospital with a fever clinic would cause cross-infection before going to a specialist maternity home.
但现在她也顾不上了，直接去了家附近的一家设有发热门诊的二甲医院——浦东新区人民医院，挂了急诊。
But now she did not care, directly to a fever clinic near the second A hospital - Pudong New District People's Hospital, hung up the emergency.
她告诉医生自己出血了。
She told the doctor that she was bleeding.
医生也觉得情况不对，问道，“你胎停都这么久了，为什么拖到现在才来？你有可能随时大出血，情况很危险。
"The doctor, finding it wrong, asked," Why have you had a flat tire for so long that you've only been here before now?
”幻境很紧张，她害怕再次遭到拒绝。
Fantasy was tense, and she was afraid of being rejected again.
她没有告诉医生她被前一家医院拒收是因为体温偏高。
She did not tell her doctor that she had been refused admission to the previous hospital because of her high temperature.
她撒了个谎，说是因为还没有排到自己。
She lied because she hadn't been on her own.
医生随后问她是否去过武汉，她说没有。
The doctor then asked her if she had been to Wuhan and she said no.
因为是特殊时期，医生让幻境去拍胸部CT，排除感染新冠肺炎才能住院。
Because it was a special time, the doctor asked Mirage to take a chest CT and rule out a new crown pneumonia.
幻境马上去拍片。
Fantasy is going to shoot right away.
医院人很多，觉得坐电梯浪费时间，她就爬楼梯。
The hospital was crowded and she climbed the stairs because she thought the elevator was a waste of time.
她在医院里跑上跑下，有种子宫在下坠的疼痛感。
She ran up and down the hospital, feeling the pain of falling uterus.
不过也顾不了这么多，“当时就想着赶紧住院，能住进去就是万幸了。
But also can not take care of so much, "think of hastening hospitalization, can live in is lucky.
”CT显示一切正常。
CT showed everything to be fine.
医院愿意收她。
The hospital was willing to accept her.
医生随即给住院部打电话，告知对方这里有一个患者有紧急情况，让院方加紧办理住院。
The doctor then called the inpatient department to tell him that there was an emergency and asked the hospital to speed up the hospitalization.
“感觉我得救了，至暗时刻突然一下子有光了，” 幻境说。
"I felt saved, and all of a sudden there was a light in the dark," said Fantasy.
2月11号当天下午4点左右，幻境住进了一个三人间的病房。
At about 4 p.m. on February 11, Mirage was admitted to a three-room ward.
因为体温偏高，她一个人住着那间病房。
She lives alone in the ward because of her high temperature.
她问护士，体温高是不是因为之前楼上楼下做检查跑热了呢？护士说有可能。
She asked the nurse if the fever was due to the check-up upstairs and downstairs? The nurse said it was possible.
“我安心了，哪怕大出血，终于有地方可以抢救我了，”她说。
"I was relieved that there was at last a place to save me, even if there was a lot of bleeding," she said.
在病房，护士每隔三四个小时给她量一次体温。
In the ward, the nurse took her temperature every three or four hours.
12号，她的体温终于回归正常。
12, her temperature finally returned to normal.
当天，医院其他科室的医生来病房会诊，问她有没有胸闷气短，有没有拉肚子，等等。
On the same day, doctors from other departments of the hospital came to the ward to consult and ask her if she had chest tightness, diarrhea, etc.
幻境都做了否定回答。
Mirage answered in the negative.
吃了三天药之后， 2月14日下午，幻境终于做了手术。
After three days of medication, Mirage finally had surgery on the afternoon of February 14.
当她看到医生从手术包里一包一包拿手术器械，把注射器往盘子里丢的时候，她发抖了。
She shuddered when she saw the doctor drop a bag of surgical instruments from the bag and drop the syringe into the tray.
没有麻药，医生害怕她痛晕过去，一直在和她聊天。
There was no anesthetic, and the doctor was afraid she would faint and kept talking to her.
手术的过程很痛苦。
The operation was painful.
“我当时已经出现幻觉了，遭罪啊，不仅是身体上的还有心里上的，感觉让我死了算了吧。
"I was hallucinated, suffering, not only physically but psychologically, and I felt like I was dead.
”手术结束后，幻境整个人都虚了。
When the operation was over, the vision was empty.
一个医生一路上扶着她从手术室走到门外。
A doctor helped her out of the operating room all the way.
出了手术室，护士用轮椅把她推进病房。
Out of the operating room, the nurse wheeled her into the ward.
在病房里又住了一个晚上，第二天下午，她出院了。
After spending another night in the ward, she was discharged the following afternoon.
幻境回忆，这几天她经历了人生“至暗时刻”，像“捡回了条命”。
Fantasy memories, these days she experienced the "darkest moment" of life, like "picked back the life".
回到家，她觉得自己重生了。
When she got home, she felt like she was born again.
不过躺着的时候幻境还是会想，为什么会胎停呢？她回忆，准备要小孩后她和老公生活饮食都很注意，基本杜绝吃各种垃圾食品，也不喝各种饮料，提前开始吃叶酸……她真的不知道哪里出了问题。
She recalls how she and her husband ate and drank when they were ready to have a baby, basically stopped eating all kinds of junk food and drinking all kinds of drinks, and started eating folic acid early... she really didn't know what was wrong.
她会想起当时接待她的医生们。
She would think of the doctors who had received her.
“当时拒绝收我住院的医生为什么对我那么冷淡呢？”她想起来，那天早晨老公为她准备了个很大的行李箱，一个护士看到她早早地拿着大行李箱坐着等待，还说了句，“（打胎）好积极啊。
Why did the doctor who refused to admit me at the time seem so cold to meShe remembered that her husband had prepared a big suitcase for her that morning, and a nurse saw her sitting there in the early morning with the big suitcase and saying, "What a positive thing.
”不过她也会想起温暖的人。
But she also thinks of warm people.
2月10号，慌乱的幻境在另外一个医疗问询平台上还找到了一个重庆的医生，她问有低热有没有可能是因为炎症引起的，她在家要怎么给自己降温等等。
On Feb. 10, panic phantoms found a doctor in Chongqing on another medical information platform. She asked if the fever might be due to inflammation, how she would cool herself at home, etc.
这位医生建议她要赶紧去医院，不能自己在家，且有些药不能乱吃。
The doctor advised her to hurry to the hospital, unable to be at home and unable to take some medicine randomly.
没想到2月17号，这个医生来询问幻境的情况，还问她有没有做手术。
Unexpectedly, February 17, the doctor came to inquire about the illusory situation, and asked her if she had an operation.
“我太感动了。
"I was so touched.
当时只是跟她咨询了几个问题，人家完全不回复我不问我也没有关系。
I asked her a few questions, and it doesn't matter if they didn't answer me at all.
我可能都不是她的患者，她还记得我。
I may not even be her sufferer. She remembers me.
”这几日，作为返工潮流入的热门城市，尽管最近的23日、24日两日无新增确诊病例，但依然面临严峻的防疫挑战。
"The hottest city for rework these days is facing a serious epidemic prevention challenge, despite the fact that there were no new cases confirmed on the 23rd and 24th of this week.
根据上海市卫健委公布的数字，截至2月24日24时，上海市累计确诊病例335例。
As of 2400 hours on February 24, 335 cases had been confirmed in Shanghai, according to figures released by the Shanghai Health Commission.
其中，111人是外地来沪人员，大概占到百分之三十三。
Among them, 111 people came to Shanghai from other places, accounting for about 33 percent.
幻境住的小区外来人口很多。
The hallucinations are home to a large foreign population.
在2月7、8日，她陆陆续续听到有行李箱回来的声音。
On February 7 and 8, she continued to hear the sound of luggage coming back.
在回家的路上，她也感觉到路上行人在变多。
On her way home, she also felt more and more pedestrians on the road.
“我知道疫情很严峻，我理解医院，可是也有很多需要就医的患者因为体温偏高就只能这样等，等过了最佳时间，等来了意外”，她说。
"I know the epidemic is severe and I understand the hospital, but there are also many patients who need medical attention because of the high temperature, waiting for the best time, waiting for an accident," she said.
“希望在这个特殊时期，每个像我这样有特殊情况的人，都能顺利解决问题。
"Hopefully, at this particular time, everyone in a special situation like me will be able to solve the problem smoothly.
”新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all the photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨孕妇的至暗时刻。
The darkest hour in the human world.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨孕妇的至暗时刻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; at the darkest hour of human service;
var msg_desc = "“我也没办法，” 医生回复道，“体温一定要下来”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I couldn't help it," the doctor replied. "My temperature must come down."
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉的30天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（三）：4个离家和回家的故事',。
Ritual: & amp; # 39; & # 45; Imaged Diary into the World; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
