疫情中受创行业里的他们：复工无期 月亏房租十几万 期待扶持政策中守望春天 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
They in the affected industries: back to work life-long deficit rent tens of thousands of expected support policy watchful spring - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="姜鑫";。
Var auther = & quot; Jiang Xin & quot;;
疫情中受创行业里的他们：复工无期 月亏房租十几万 期待扶持政策中守望春天。
Affected by the epidemic in their industries: back to work life-long monthly deficit rent tens of thousands of expected support policies to watch out for spring.
姜鑫2020-01-31 10:41。
Jiang Xin 2020-01-31 10: 41.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 姜鑫。
Economic Observer reporter Jiang Xin.
一、大年初一“失业”了。
First, the New Year's Day "unemployment."
“本来想2020年咸鱼翻身，没想到直接粘锅了————致所有旅游行业从业者。
"Originally thought 2020 salty fish turns over, did not expect the direct glutinous pot - to all travel industry practitioners.
”。
"
回家的路上，边丽在朋友圈中发出了上面一条朋友圈。
On her way home, Bian Li sent out a circle of friends above.
。
.
大年初二，边丽在一路电话、邮件中回到了家，这是她工作七八年以来第二次在正月里回家拜年。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, she returned home by phone and mail for the second time in seven or eight years.
作为一名导游，边丽的春节有时在海南、有时在东南亚的某个国家，就是不在老家。
As a tour guide, Bian Li's Spring Festival is sometimes in Hainan, sometimes in a country in Southeast Asia, but not in her hometown.
。
.
边丽刚发完朋友圈，并为“没有任何一个行业比旅游从业者更希望国家风调雨顺”的评论点赞，电话就响了起来，——又是一个客户的退团事宜。
Bian Li just finished her circle of friends and praised the comment that "no industry wants the country to behave better than tour operators," and the phone rang - another customer exit.
。
.
就在近日，文化和旅游部下发通知，要求全国旅行社及在线旅游企业暂停经营团队旅游及“机票+酒店”旅游产品。
Just recently, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism issued a circular requesting travel agencies and online tourism enterprises nationwide to suspend group travel and "air ticket + hotel" tourism products.
乍一看到这一消息，边丽心里一阵窃喜，终于可以和家人一起过个年了，但这个年并不像想象般简单，大部分时间，边丽都是在退团、退票事宜的处理中度过的。
At first glance, Bian Li felt very happy that she could spend a year with her family. But this year was not as simple as she thought.
。
.
关于年的遗憾终于得到了弥补，但随着新冠状病毒肺炎的扩散和病例的增多，边丽开始担忧，没有旅游团就意味着没有收入，这也意味着生活失去了保障，房贷、车贷都是压力。
But with the spread of the coronavirus pneumonia and an increase in the number of cases, Bian Li began to worry that the absence of a tour group meant no income.
而老公亦是旅游行业从业者，面对无法预估的疫情，二人的生活可能会受到很大的影响。
Husband is also the travel industry practitioners, facing an unpredictable epidemic, two people's lives may be greatly affected.
。
.
更令边丽无奈的消息是，在不少国家暂停往来中国航班后，1月31日凌晨，WHO宣布中国疫情构成国际关注的突发公共卫生事件，这或许意味着边丽所熟悉的境外游将面临更多限制。
To add to Bian Li's frustration, after many countries suspended flights to and from China, in the early hours of January 31, the World Health Organization declared that the Chinese epidemic constituted a public health emergency of international concern, which might mean that Bian Li's familiar outbound travel would face more restrictions.
。
.
就在边丽回到老家的第三天，弟弟改签了由家里到北京的车票，在返程高峰之前赶到上海，准备短暂隔离后正式上班。
On her third day back in her hometown, her brother changed his ticket from home to Beijing and rushed to Shanghai before the rush hour for a brief quarantine.
尽管市政府要求企业在2月9日后开工，但面对大量订单，边丽弟弟所在公司决定先进行小规模复工，“除了满足订单需求，还需要考虑到设备维护，对于几千万甚至是上亿元的设备来说，不运转就是伤设备”，弟弟如是向家人解释。
Despite the city government's demand for companies to start work after February 9, Mr. Bian's company decided to resume work on a small scale, "not only to meet the demand for orders, but also to take into account equipment maintenance, for tens of millions or even hundreds of millions of dollars of equipment," Brother explained to his family.
。
.
在身边朋友都准备返回找工作岗位的时候，边丽还在等待。
When her friends were ready to return to their jobs, Bian Li was still waiting.
在这场突然爆发的疫情中，每天数字的增长都令她忧心忡忡，“已经处在失业状态，希望快点过去”，边丽表示。
In this sudden outbreak, the daily increase in numbers worries her, "I'm out of work, I hope to get over it soon," says Ms Bian.
2003年非典的时候，边丽还在读书，但在与同行交流中，边丽了解到，2003年3月到5月期间，旅游出行人数锐减，行业受影响较大。
Bian Li was still at school when SARS struck in 2003, but in exchanges with her peers, she learned that the number of tourists fell sharply between March and May 2003 and that the industry was more affected.
。
.
空闲之余，边丽计划进行一些外语和视频剪辑的学习来提高自己，“或者找时间写一些有见闻或问答，争取搞一点副业”，边丽这样谈自己未来几周的计划。
In her spare time, Ms. Bian plans to improve herself by studying foreign languages and video clips, "or find time to do some reading or Q & amp; A for a bit of sideline work," she said of her plans for the coming weeks.
。
.
监管政策不断升级，1月29日，国家移民管理局表示，自即日起，全国公安机关出入境管理部门暂停受理、审批、签发内地居民赴香港、澳门团队旅游、个人旅游（含深圳“一周一行”）签注。
On January 29, the State Administration of Migration said that with immediate effect, the entry and exit authorities of the public security organs nationwide had suspended the processing, approval and issuance of endorsement notices for Mainland residents travelling to Hong Kong and Macao on group trips and individual trips, including "one-week trips" from Shenzhen.
目前，国内大部分旅游设施都开始陆续关闭，包括上海迪士尼乐园、福建厦门鼓浪屿，山西平遥古城、江苏南京玄武湖等。
At present, most of the country's tourism facilities began to close, including Shanghai Disneyland, Guolangyu in Xiamen, Shanxi Pingyao ancient city, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province and so on.
。
.
除了边丽来自一线的感触外，行业的影响已经开始显现。
In addition to Bian Li from a first line of feeling, the impact of the industry has begun to show.
1月29日，复星旅文(01992-HK)发布公告称，基于目前疫情的进展情况，预计该集团来自中国大陆地区的度假村及旅游目的地运营以及旅游休闲服务及解决方案（统称旅游运营）的收入在近期将受到较大的影响。
On January 29, Fuxing Travel (01992-HK) issued a statement saying it expected the group's revenues from resorts and tourist destinations in mainland China, as well as tourism and leisure services and solutions (collectively known as tourism operations), to be significantly affected in the near future, given the progress of the current outbreak.
。
.
1月20日至21日，A股餐饮旅游板块连续两日大跌，跌幅超过6%，成为两市表现最差的板块之一。
From January 20 to 21, A-share catering tourism plate fell more than 6% for the second day in a row, making it one of the worst performing sectors in the two cities.
年后港股开盘后，香港中旅、英皇国际等个股下跌。
Hong Kong shares opened in 2000, Hong Kong Tourism, Royal International and other shares fell.
而与出行相关的机场、航空板块也萎靡不振，市场正在预期一场空前的旅游行业危机。
Travel-related airports and airlines are also in a slump, and the market is anticipating an unprecedented tourism crisis.
。
.
二、赔钱进行时 不知自己能否熬过去。
I wonder if I can make it through when I lose money.
“腰子哥”还没有定好最后的开业时间，但已经在做最坏的准备。
"Kidney Brother" has not set a final opening date, but is already preparing for the worst.
。
.
截至1月30日24时，新冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例9692例，疑似病例15238例。
As of 2400 hours on January 30, there were 9,692 confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia and 15,238 suspected cases.
这也意味着，短短30天内仅确诊病例就已超过2003年暴发的“非典（SARS）”病例数量，传播速度也快于当时。
That means that the number of confirmed cases in just 30 days has surpassed the number of SARS cases that erupted in 2003, and spread faster than then.
。
.
朝阳区石佛营路八里庄，一家名为腰约烤羊腰精酿酒馆的店经常被美食爱好者推荐到网上。
At BaliZhuang, Shifu Camp Road, Chaoyang District, a restaurant called the Waist Baking Sheep Wine Brewery is often recommended by gourmet lovers online.
这是“腰子哥”的第一家店，目前他的店面已经扩展至3家。
The store is the first of its kind, and it has now expanded to three.
。
.
疫情的变化情况，是“腰子哥”每天关注的重点信息。
The change of epidemic situation, is "kidney son elder brother" daily attention key information.
因为疫情不断升级，“腰子哥”在春节前夕选择了停业休息，因为疫情假期延长，“腰子哥”尚未有明确的开业时间。
With the outbreak escalating, Kidney chose to suspend work on the eve of the Spring Festival because of the extended holiday and the lack of a clear opening date.
。
.
此时，对于餐饮行业从业者来说，正像边丽一样处在艰难时刻。
At this point, for the restaurant industry practitioners, just as Bian Li is in a difficult time.
。
.
在“腰子哥”看来，目前情况下，“行业赔钱是必然的”，以腰子哥的经营为例，三家店面月租金有几十万，这是营业与否的必然开销。
In the view of "kidneys," the current situation, "the industry is losing money is inevitable," in the case of the operation of kidneys, three storefront rent hundreds of thousands of dollars a month, this is the inevitable cost of business or not.
员工工资也是必然开支，不开业可能需要支付的工资少些，开业可能没有什么生意，开业与否，腰子哥和其他从业者一样在观察。
Wages of employees are also a necessity, and failure to start a business may require less pay, business may not be done, practice may or may not be done, and kidneys are watching like any other practitioner.
。
.
幸运的是，“腰子哥”的店由于没有储备年夜饭而避免了库存食材的积压。
Luckily, the store didn't stock up on New Year's Eve meals to avoid overstocking.
但张然（化名）却没有这么幸运。
But Zhang Ran (alias) is not so lucky.
张然的店面在距离北京不远的河北，为了应对春节期间的大量客流，张然在年前多买了三个冰柜，储备不少肉类、青菜和米面粮油。
Zhang Ran, whose storefront is not far from Beijing, bought three more freezers a year ago to cope with heavy passenger flow during the Spring Festival, stocking up on meat, vegetables and rice noodles.
当河北省开始公布出现确诊病例，张然的生意开始冷清起来。
When the province of Hebei began to publish confirmed cases, Zhang Ran's business began to cool.
。
.
客户越来越少，惆怅的张然开始想办法处理库存，一方面把一些做过预处理的肉类和青菜摆在店门口销售，另一方面开始加大外卖供应量。
Fewer and fewer customers, melancholy began to think of ways to deal with inventory, on the one hand, some pre-processed meat and vegetables on the door of the shop, on the other hand began to increase the supply of take-out.
但很快，一则外卖员疑似感染的新闻也使外卖生意遭遇了滑铁卢。
But soon a news item about a suspected infection among takeaway salesmen hit Waterloo.
无奈之下，张然选择关店。
Helpless, Zhang Ran chooses to close shop.
。
.
决定关门的当天，张然转发了一篇全国房东免租进行时的文章，期待房东能做出让步。
The decision to close the day, Zhang Ran forward a national landlord rent-free when the article, expect the landlord to make concessions.
“腰子哥”也在与房东的沟通中，但仍未有结果。
"Kidney Brother" is also in communication with the landlord, but still no results.
据“腰子哥”介绍，万达宣布商户免租金后，不少在商场营业的餐饮企业可能会在房租上得到让步，但房东为个人的街边店面却这么好谈。
According to the "kidneys", Wanda announced that after the rent-free business, many restaurants in shopping malls may be able to get concessions on rent, but the landlord for the personal street storefront is so easy to talk about.
更为头疼的是，房东可能会作出一个月的让步，但如果疫情时间持续的话，对于餐饮行业来说可谓压力不小。
Adding to the headaches, landlords may concede for a month, but if the epidemic continues, the food and beverage industry is under pressure.
。
.
“收入没有了，只能减少开支”，采访中，“腰子哥”对经济观察报记者表示，目前在做最坏的打算，一方面缩减开支，一方面储备现金流，争取熬过去。
"Income is gone, spending can only be cut," the interviewer told the Economic Observer, adding that the company was preparing for the worst by cutting spending and saving cash flow to survive.
。
.
在这段艰难的时间里，“腰子哥”也希望能在政策上得到支持。
In this difficult time, the "kidneys" also hope to be able to get policy support.
“经营赔钱所得税不用交了，如果营业税能减免一点也是好的，目前的情况是企业规模越大，店铺越多，所面临的压力越大，现金流风险越大。
"There is no need to pay income tax on operating losses, and it would be good if the business tax were to be reduced at all. The bigger the business, the more shops, the greater the cash flow risk.
为了能帮助中小企业度过难关，希望能有一些低息或无息贷款”。
In order to help small and medium-sized enterprises through the difficulties, I hope to have some low-interest or interest-free loans.
。
.
这同样也是张然的心愿，如果疫情持续时间过长，他不知道自己能否熬过去。
It was also an obvious wish that if the outbreak lasted too long, he did not know whether he would survive.
。
.
自1月份以来，位于港股的海底捞已经8个交易日收跌，累计跌幅9.12%。
Hong Kong-based bottom fishing has fallen 9.12 per cent in eight trading days since January.
就在近日，海底捞还曾发布公告称，自新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情爆发以来，中国多个省市启动最高级别的重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应，采取各项严格措施遏制疫情蔓延。
Just recently, the Chinese government announced in a statement that, since the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, many provinces and municipalities in China have responded to major public health emergencies at the highest level, taking strict measures to contain the spread of the disease.
为积极配合疫情防控工作，确保员工和顾客的健康与安全，公司决定于2020年1月26日至1月31日暂时停止中国大陆地区(港澳台地区除外)门店营业。
In order to actively cooperate with the prevention and control of the epidemic and to ensure the health and safety of employees and customers, the company decided to temporarily suspend business in mainland China (except Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) from January 26 to January 31, 2020.
公司2019年上半年财报数据显示，报告期内餐厅经营113.3亿元，占营业总收入的97%。
The company reported revenue of 11.33 billion yuan in the first half of 2019, accounting for 97% of total revenue.
。
.
三、期待优惠政策落地。
Expect preferential policies to land.
因为疫情，李老师的鼠年春节假期就这样被延长了。
Because of the epidemic, Miss Li's Rat Year Spring Festival was thus extended.
作为教辅培训老师，李老师亦是受到影响的一个。
As a teaching assistant teacher, Mr Li was also affected.
。
.
教育部日前下发通知，要求2020年春季学期延期开学，学生在家不外出、不聚会、不举办和参加集中性活动。
The Ministry of Education has issued a circular asking students to stay at home, not to meet, not to hold or participate in intensive activities until spring 2020.
本在寒暑假期间大展身手的教辅培训机构也不得不按要求取消各类线下课程。
The auxiliary training institutions, which were able to excel during the winter and summer holidays, had to cancel various off-line courses as required.
李老师的补课计划也取消了，年后的所有事项目前不可计划，几万元的补课费就此化为泡影。
Mr. Li's remedial plan was also canceled, after the year all things are not currently planned, tens of thousands of dollars in remedial fees have been wiped out.
。
.
但李老师也看到了新的机会——在线教育。
But Mr Li also sees new opportunities - online education.
目前，已经有多家在线教育机构表示向社会捐赠免费课程，践行公益之外，这些举措亦是在寻找获客机会。
At present, there are a number of online educational institutions offering free courses to the public, and these initiatives are looking for opportunities for clients.
。
.
李老师也开始了新的尝试，基于原来的补课计划，李老师决定由线下转到线上，补课费用减半，几天沟通下来，决定线上补课的同学并没有减少太多。
Li also began a new attempt, based on the original remedial plan, Li decided to transfer from offline to on-line, compensation fees halved, a few days of communication, decided that online remedial classes did not reduce too much.
。
.
疫情拖得越久，经济影响也就越大。
The longer the epidemic continues, the greater the economic impact.
面对边丽、腰子哥、张然的疑惑，经济会受到怎样的影响？又有多少人可以像李老师一样把握住新的机会？。
Facing Bian Li, kidney brother, Zhang Ran doubt, how will the economy be affected? And how many people can like Miss Li to grasp the new opportunities?
评级机构标准普尔做了一个“初步的评估”，认为新型肺炎可能令中国的GDP减少1.2个百分点，但最终影响几何，尚需时间来验证结果。
Standard & amp; Poor's, the rating agency, made a "preliminary assessment" that the new pneumonia could cut China's GDP by 1.2 percentage points, but that it would take time to test the results.
。
.
但就目前交通受限、消费减少等现状，新冠疫情对旅游、餐饮旅店等服务消费带来的负面影响将更为直接和明显。
However, the current situation of traffic restrictions, consumption reduction, the new crown epidemic on tourism, restaurants and hotels and other services consumption will be more direct and obvious.
中泰证券首席经济学家李迅雷在研报中表示，当年非典使得2003年旅客周转量增速为-2.3%，国内旅游人次下降0.9%；旅游总收入下降11.2%。
In 2003, SARS caused a -2.3% increase in passenger turnover, a 0.9% drop in domestic tourism, and a 11.2% drop in tourism revenue, said Li Xunlei, chief economist at Cathay Pacific Securities.
目前正逢传统的假日消费黄金周，但为了应对疫情所采取的举措则远比非典时期严厉，预期降幅会更大。
This is the traditional Golden Week of Holiday Consumption, but the response to the epidemic has been much tougher and is expected to fall even more sharply.
。
.
而“腰子哥”和张然的期待或许正在路上。
And the "kidneys" and Zhang Ran's expectations may be on the way.
一位上海的化工行业创业者对经济观察报记者表示，上海要求延迟复工，疫情期间鼓励职工在家上班，对此企业也应算做休息日上班，而休息日加班要支付两倍工资，这对企业来说压力也很大，因此对于税收优惠的呼声比较大，也有声音说可能会落地。
A Shanghai-based chemical entrepreneur told the Economic Observer that the city's demand for a delay in resuming work, which encourages workers to work from home during the outbreak of the disease, should count as a day off, with companies paying twice as much on rest days, has put pressure on companies to call for tax breaks, and some say they could land.
。
.
类似的措施在2003年非典期间已有先例。
Similar measures were already in place during SARS in 2003.
据了解，当年4月30日，财政部、国家税务总局发出通知：“对企业、个人等社会力量向防治’非典’事业捐赠的现金和实物，允许在缴纳所得税前全额扣除。
It is understood that on April 30 of that year, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation issued a circular: "Cash and in-kind donations to SARS prevention and control by enterprises, individuals and other social forces are allowed to be deducted in full before income tax is paid.
对受“非典”疫情直接影响比较突出的部分行业在2003年5月1日至9月30日期间实行税收优惠政策。
From May 1 to September 30, 2003, some industries that had a direct impact on the SARS epidemic implemented preferential tax policies.
”同时，财政部也对相关行业减免了15项政府性基金国税务。
At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has exempted 15 government-funded countries from taxes on related industries.
。
.
而在近日，无论是央行还是银保监会都对金融机构应对疫情提出要求，例如，银保监会要求金融机构开辟金融服务绿色通道，进一步加大对疫区的支持，减免手续费，简化业务流程，开辟快速通道。
In recent days, both the central bank and the CBRC have demanded that financial institutions respond to the epidemic. For example, the CBRC has asked financial institutions to open up green channels for financial services, further increase support to epidemic areas, reduce transaction costs, simplify business processes and open fast-track channels.
对受疫情影响暂时失去收入来源的人群，要在信贷政策上予以适当倾斜，灵活调整住房按揭、信用卡等个人信贷还款安排，合理延后还款期限。
For those who have temporarily lost their sources of income due to the epidemic, appropriate preferential credit policies should be adopted, and arrangements for repayment of personal credit such as mortgages and credit cards should be flexibly adjusted so as to reasonably delay the repayment period.
同时还要求做好受困企业金融服务。
At the same time it also requires financial services for troubled enterprises.
对于受疫情影响较大的批发零售、住宿餐饮、物流运输、文化旅游等行业，以及有发展前景但暂时受困的企业，不得盲目抽贷、断贷、压贷。
Wholesale, retail, hotel and catering, logistics and cultural tourism industries, as well as enterprises with a bright future but temporarily in trouble, shall not blindly draw loans, stop lending or suppress loans.
鼓励通过适当下调贷款利率、完善续贷政策安排、增加信用贷款和中长期贷款等方式，支持相关企业战胜疫情灾害影响。
We will encourage relevant enterprises to overcome the impact of the epidemic by appropriately reducing loan interest rates, improving loan renewal policy arrangements and increasing credit loans and medium- and long-term loans.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
姜鑫经济观察报记者。
Jiang Xin Economic Observer reporter.
金融机构新闻部记者。
Ministry of Information, Financial Institutions
关注证券、新三板、保险行业与上市公司相关领域。
Focus on securities, new board, insurance industry and listed companies related to the field.
擅长深度报道。
Good at in-depth reporting.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、疫情中受创行业里的他们：复工无期   。
1. They in the battered industry: back to work for life.
2、详解新冠肺炎被定为国际危机事件    。
New Crown Pneumonia has been designated as an international crisis event.
3、经观社论|共克时艰，我们能够做些   。
3. We can do something about difficult times with AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
4、远程办公、视频社交、防护用品市场   。
4. Telecommuting, video social networking and protective equipment market.
5、疾控中心回应发表论文：确诊病例在   。
CDC Responds to Publish Paper: Confirmed Cases in China.
6、图景嘉园31日恢复正常出入 需登记   。
Registration is required for the resumption of normal access on the 31st.
7、赵笠钧：应发挥好企业本职功能，而   。
geraniums: should play a good role of the business function, and.
8、快讯 | 国家卫健委：新型冠状病毒   。
8. News & # # 124; & # 44; National Health Service Commission: New Coronavirus.
9、WHO将新冠病毒疫情列为国际关注的   。
9. The World Health Organization lists the new crown virus outbreak as an international concern.
10、口罩中国下的撕裂与弥合   。
Tearing and healing of masks under China.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
