世卫组织称新冠疫情尚未到“大流行”，评价中国“战疫”：中国人民奉献很多。
The World Health Organization says the new crown is not "pandemic," evaluating China's "epidemic": the Chinese people have much to offer.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
关于新冠病毒疫情，一如既往，每天的数字变化是第一关注要素。
With regard to the New Crown Virus epidemic, daily numerical changes are, as always, the number one concern.
在 2 月 24 日世卫组织关于新冠病毒疫情的媒体通报会上，总干事谭德塞像往常一样从最新数字谈起：截至日内瓦时间 24 日上午 6 点，中国向世卫组织报告了共 77,362 例新型冠状病毒确诊病例，其中包括 2,618 例死亡。
At the 24 February WHO media briefing on the New Crown Virus outbreak, Director-General Edwards started with the latest figures as usual: By 6 a.m. Geneva time, China had reported to WHO a total of 77,362 confirmed cases of new coronavirus, including 2,618 deaths.
在过去的 24 小时内，中国报告了 416 例新增确诊病例和 150 例死亡。
In the past 24 hours, China has reported 416 new confirmed cases and 150 deaths.
“我们对中国境内病例的持续下降感到欣慰。
"We are heartened by the continuing decline in the number of cases in China.
”谭德塞说。
'she said.
25 日上午，据数据显示，昨日中国除湖北以外的 30 个省区市和新疆生产建设兵团新增确诊病例数降至个位——为 9 例。
On the morning of May 25, data showed that the number of newly confirmed cases in 30 provinces and municipalities and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps dropped to one - nine cases, according to statistics.
随后，谭德塞介绍了世卫组织与中国联合专家组在中国几个省，以及武汉的访查结果。
Subsequently, Tantese presented the results of the WHO-China Joint Expert Group visit to several provinces in China, as well as Wuhan.
关于病毒的传播性、疾病的严重程度，以及所采取措施的效果，联合专家组得出了一系列结论。
The Joint Expert Group reached a series of conclusions on the spread of the virus, the severity of the disease and the impact of the measures taken.
专家组发现，此次疫情在 1 月 23 日至 2 月 2 日这段时间内达到高峰并逐步稳定，而之后一直在稳步下降。
The Group found that the epidemic peaked and stabilized between 23 January and 2 February and has steadily declined since then.
同时，他们表示目前病毒本身未发现其发生了明显变异。
At the same time, they say the virus itself has not found any significant mutations.
从新冠病毒的致死率来看，武汉的病死率在 2% 到 4% 之间，而武汉以外地区的病死率为 0.7%。
Wuhan has a mortality rate of between 2 and 4 percent, compared with 0.7 percent outside Wuhan, according to the new crown virus mortality rate.
此外，轻症患者的康复时间大约为两周，患有严重或危重疾病的人则需要三到六周左右的时间康复。
In addition, the recovery time for light cases is approximately two weeks, and for persons with severe or critical illnesses it takes about three to six weeks to recover.
图 | 世卫组织总干事谭德塞（来源：Twitter）专家组表示，中国为控制疫情蔓延所采取的措施避免了更多的病例。
WHAT'S DIRECTOR-GENERAL, Roger Tanner (Source: Twitter), says China's efforts to contain the spread of the epidemic have averted more cases.
但目前，仍然有部分问题无法给出准确答案，专家组已在报告中详细列明，并提出了 22 项建议。
At present, however, there are still some questions that cannot be answered with precision, as detailed in the report of the Group of Experts, which made 22 recommendations.
而作为世卫组织总干事高级顾问、也是联合专家考察组外方组长布鲁斯 · 艾尔沃德（Bruce Aylward）博士对中国 “战疫” 给出这样评价：“我们要认识到武汉人民所做的贡献，世界欠你们的。
As Bruce Aylward, senior adviser to the WHO Director-General and head of the foreign team on the Joint Expert Mission, put it this way: "We must recognize the contribution of the people of Wuhan, the world owes you.
当这场疫情过去，希望有机会代表世界再一次感谢武汉人民，我知道在这次疫情过程中，中国人民奉献很多。
When this epidemic is over, I hope to have the opportunity to thank Wuhan people once again on behalf of the world.
”布鲁斯 · 艾尔沃德还表示，在没有特效药、没有疫苗的情况下，中国的做法是有什么就用什么，能怎样拯救生命就怎么样拯救生命。
Bruce Alvold also said that in the absence of a specific drug or vaccine, China would do what it could to save lives and use what it could.
而确诊患者数据的下降，表明中国的方法是目前唯一的被事实证明成功的方法。
And the decline in the number of confirmed patients suggests that China's approach is the only one that has yet proved successful.
他还提到，目前来说最重要的一条建议就是切勿沾沾自喜，未获全胜，不轻言胜利。
The most important piece of advice, he said, was not to be complacent, not to win, not to say to win.
虽然病例数目在下降，但人群依然是普遍易感的。
Although the number of cases is declining, the population remains generally susceptible.
同日，钟南山院士在接受媒体采访时也提到，防控意识需要保持，防控的级别完全可以改变。
On the same day, Academician Zhong Nan Shan also mentioned in an interview with the media, control awareness needs to be maintained, the level of control can be completely changed.
图 | 布鲁斯·艾尔沃德博士（来源：Sam McNeil/AP）对于网上热议的，是否会将此次新冠病毒疫情宣布为 “大流行” 一说，谭德塞对媒体表示：当中国境外的病例不到 100 例，其中有 8 例人与人之间的传播时，世卫组织便宣布了此次疫情为“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”（PHEIC），而这也是世卫组织的最高警戒级别。
When there were fewer than 100 cases outside China, including eight human-to-human transmission, the WHO declared the outbreak "a public health emergency of international concern," Dr. Sam McNeil / AP told reporters.
世卫组织在决定是否使用 "大流行" 一词来描述某一流行病，并不代表警戒程度的变化，而是取决于对病毒的地理传播、所引起疾病的严重程度，以及其对整个社会的影响的持续评估。
WHO's decision to use the word & quot; pandemic & quot; to describe an epidemic does not represent a change in alert levels, but depends on a continuing assessment of the geographical spread of the virus, the severity of the disease it causes, and its impact on society as a whole.
“意大利、伊朗和韩国的病例骤然增加，令人深感忧虑。
"The sharp increase in cases in Italy, Iran and South Korea is deeply worrying.
”谭德塞说，“但目前，我们没有看到这种病毒在全球不受控制地蔓延，也没有看到大规模的严重疾病或死亡事件。
"But at the moment, we don't see the virus spreading uncontrolled around the world, nor is there a large-scale outbreak of serious illness or death," he said.
”对于新型冠状病毒是否有可能 “大流行”，世卫组织总干事谭德塞对媒体说：“我理解你们问这个问题的原因。
"I understand why you are asking this question," WHO Director-General Lindsay Tan told reporters on the possibility of a "pandemic.
可能性是当然有的，但经过评估还没有到达那种地步。
The possibility is certainly there, but it has not been assessed to that extent.
” 对于目前的疫情局势，他将其描述为“这一疾病在世界不同地区流行，以不同的方式影响国家，对之需要采取有针对性的对策。
He described the current epidemic as "an epidemic in different parts of the world, affecting countries in different ways and requiring a targeted response."
”谭德塞表示，其他国家新病例的突然增加纵然令人十分担忧，但人们需要看到的是客观事实，而不是恐惧。
Mr Tanner said the sudden increase in new cases in other countries, while very worrying, needed to be seen in terms of objective facts, not fear.
“当然，也应该做好其可能发展为全球流行病的准备。
"Of course, it should also be prepared for what could turn into a global epidemic.
”他补充道，“不过，此时此刻并不是该关注我们使用什么词来描述的时候。
"But this is not the time to focus on the words we use to describe it," he added.
使用这个词，在现在既不会阻止一次感染，也不会拯救任何人的生命。
Using this word will not stop an infection or save anyone's life right now.
现在是所有国家、社区、家庭和个人集中精力做好准备的时候。
It is time for all nations, communities, families and individuals to focus on preparing themselves.
”“我们并非生活在一个非黑即白的二元世界。
"We do not live in a dualistic world of black and white.
”谭德塞对媒体说，“这不是非此即彼的问题。
'It's not an either / or problem, 'Mr. Tanner told reporters.
我们必须专心防控，同时尽我们所能为潜在的病毒长期存在的可能做好准备。
We must focus on prevention and control, while preparing as much as we can for the possibility of a long-term virus.
防疫也没有放之四海而皆准的方法，每个国家都必须针对本国的国情进行自我风险评估。
Nor is there a one-size-fits-all approach to epidemic prevention, and each country must undertake a self-risk assessment tailored to its national circumstances.
世卫组织也在继续进行自己的风险评估，并日夜监测这一流行病的演变情况。
WHO is also continuing its own risk assessment and monitoring the evolution of the epidemic day and night.
”在媒体会上，他强调了三大重点：所有国家都必须优先保护医务人员；我们必须促进社区参与，保护最有可能罹患严重疾病的人，特别是老年人和有基础性健康问题的人；为保护卫生系统脆弱的国家，我们必须尽最大努力在有能力的国家中控制住流行。
At the media conference, he emphasized three main priorities: all countries must prioritize the protection of health-care workers; we must promote community participation to protect those most at risk of serious diseases, especially the elderly and those with basic health problems; and to protect countries with fragile health systems, we must do our utmost to contain the epidemic in countries that have the capacity to do so.
通报会的最后，谭德塞感谢了法国、德国、印度尼西亚、古巴和韩国的外交部长们对疫情应对措施办法的支持。
At the end of the briefing, Mr. Tandesse thanked the foreign ministers of France, Germany, Indonesia, Cuba and South Korea for their support for the response to the epidemic.
同时，还感谢了欧盟委员会捐赠了 2.32 亿欧元。
The European Commission was also thanked for its contribution of Euro232 million.
“这体现了全球团结互助精神，我为此感到鼓舞。
"I am encouraged by the spirit of global solidarity that this embodies.
”他说道，“法国、德国和瑞典还宣布将额外捐款。
"France, Germany and Sweden also announced additional contributions," he said.
”疫情对于世界各国来说，是一种共同的威胁。
The epidemic is a common threat to countries around the world.
“我们唯有一道面对，才能一起克服困难。
"Only by confronting them together can we overcome them together.
如果我们团结一致，如果各国家、各区域和全球的医疗卫生机构、媒体、私营部门，以及世界各地人民通力合作，就会形成巨大的集体力量。
If we are united, if health institutions, the media, the private sector and people around the world work together at the national, regional and global levels, there is great collective power.
但若单枪匹马，我们必输无疑。
But on our own, we will lose.
万众一心，我们则一定能赢。
As one, we will win.
”谭德塞最后说道。
"said Tandesse at last.
-End-参考：https://www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19---24-february-2020。
- End-reference: https: / / www.who.int / dg / speeches / detail / who-director-general-s-opening-markets-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19-24-February-2020.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
世卫组织称新冠疫情尚未到“大流行”，评价中国“战疫”：中国人民奉献很多。
The World Health Organization says the new crown is not "pandemic," evaluating China's "epidemic": the Chinese people have much to offer.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "世卫组织称新冠疫情尚未到“大流行”，评价中国“战疫”：中国人民奉献很多";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; WHO says the new crown has not yet reached pandemic status, and evaluates China's' plague ': the Chinese people's service at & quot;.
var msg_desc = "关于新冠病毒疫情，一如既往，每天的数字变化是第一关注要素。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with regard to the new crown virus epidemic, daily changes in numbers are, as always, the number one concern.
在 2 月 24 日世卫组织关于新冠病毒疫情的媒体";。
AT & quot; WHO & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; about the new crown virus outbreak on February 24.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
