滞留湖北的5个外地人和他们的5种遭遇。
Five outsiders stranded in Hubei Province and their 5 encounters.
任尚坤。
Ren Shankun.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：任尚坤来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）2月24日，武汉发布“部分人可出城”的第17号通告。
Author: Ren Shankun Source: ID: biz-leaders February 24, Wuhan issued "some people can leave the city" notice No. 17.
“外地人滞留群”一下子沸腾了起来。
The "outsider swarm" suddenly boiled over.
旋即，武汉又发布第18号通告宣布此前通告无效。
Immediately afterwards, Wuhan issued Circular No. 18 declaring the previous announcement invalid.
这距离武汉封城已过去33天，距离湖北全域封闭也过去了30天。
It is 33 days since Wuhan was closed, and 30 days after Hubei province was closed.
群里的人们对时间点已经愈加敏感。
People in the group have become more sensitive to the point in time.
2月20日，他们等到了，这是湖北原定的复工时间。
February 20, they waited, this is Hubei scheduled to resume work time.
他们又在等3月10日，这是经更改后湖北新的复工时间。
They are also waiting for March 10, the revised Hubei new time to resume work.
“我的心情就像过山车一样。
"I feel like a roller coaster.
”看着群里，叶青觉得她目前的境况算不错了。
Looking at the group, Ye Qing felt that she was doing well.
她不是那些患重病急需找医院或转省就诊的病人，不是怀胎待产的孕妇，不是带着婴儿的妈妈，更不是无处可住被迫睡地下车库的人。
She is not a patient who is seriously ill and is in urgent need of a hospital or provincial visit, a pregnant woman with a baby, a mother with a baby, or a person forced to sleep in an underground garage.
偌大武汉，她被安置了。
Hubei Wuhan, she was placed.
她曾反复打了当地民政局、旅游局、派出所、社区、市民热线、信访办以及防疫指挥部的电话，后来等到了有关部门的回应。
She repeatedly called the local Civil Affairs Bureau, the Tourist Board, the police station, the community, the Citizen's Hotline, the Letters and Visits Office and the epidemic prevention command.
她当下所在的安置酒店已经住满。
The hotel where she is staying is full.
每天在群里，她开始支援那些同她一样滞留于此的人，“每次帮他们我心里就舒服一点”。
Every day in the group, she began to support those who stayed with her. "Every time I help them, I feel better."
物资昂贵、匮乏、难买是普遍问题。
Expensive, scarce and difficult to buy are common problems.
吃住成了很多人的基本诉求。
Food and shelter have become the basic demand of many people.
当然，他们更期待着离开。
Of course, they are more looking forward to leaving.
离开需要手续，主要包括社区隔离证明，工作单位或返程目的地的接收证明，防疫指挥部的健康证明等。
Departure requires formalities, including, inter alia, community isolation certificates, acceptance certificates for workplaces or return destinations, health certificates from the vaccination command, etc.
不过，从大家在群里的反馈信息来看，各省市包括湖北境内，对手续的要求并不统一，宽严程度并不统一，具体到乡镇的归后隔离措施也并不统一。
However, from your feedback in the group, the provinces and municipalities, including Hubei Province, do not have uniform requirements for formalities, leniency is not uniform, specific to the township post-return isolation measures are not uniform.
他们希望能有个统一规定，好让社区等有关单位可以照章执行。
They hope that there will be a uniform provision so that the community and other relevant units can follow suit.
以下，是5个滞留在湖北的外地人，和30天里他们的5种遭遇。
Below are five outsiders stranded in Hubei, and their five encounters in 30 days.
01泡面度日，住得提心吊胆韩猛 | 滞留鄂州想回青岛1月20日，我第一次和女朋友去她的鄂州老家。
I first went to her hometown of Huizhou with my girlfriend on January 20.
封城那天，我没注意到新闻。
On the day of the siege, I didn't notice the news.
后来我租住在一个私人旅馆。
Then I rented a private hotel.
当时旅馆被限制开放，外地人不予登记。
Hotels were restricted and outsiders were not allowed to register.
我求了店主好久，最后商量成日租金240元。
I asked the shopkeeper for a long time and finally agreed to rent 240 yuan a day.
因为之前有人来查宾馆营业情况，所以我一直住的提心吊胆。
Because someone came to check the hotel business, so I have been living in fear.
这边不让上街，抓到罚款500元，然后再在隔离点待14天，每顿饭再交50元，隔离期满后一次缴清。
You're not allowed to go out here, you get a fine of $500, and then you stay in quarantine for another 14 days. You pay $50 for each meal.
所以，我上街偷偷摸摸的，找到个偏僻的小卖铺，囤了点泡面。
So, I went on the street sneak, found a remote shop, hoard some bubble noodles.
我在市长留言区留了言，后来公安部门打电话给我，让我找社区街道办。
I left a message in the mayor's message area, and then the police called me and asked me to find a community street.
我一个外地人不知道找哪个街道。
I don't know which street to look for.
返回青岛的话，我需要鄂州本地的社区材料，体检报告还有山东方面社区或单位的接收函。
To return to Qingdao, I need to Huizhou local community materials, medical reports and Shandong community or unit to receive letters.
体检报告必须鄂州当地社区出证明，我才能再去中心医院办，因为不是常驻人口，所以暂时没有社区愿意处理，而且青岛街道办那边目前也不予接收。
The medical examination report must be certified by the local community in Huizhou before I can go to the central hospital again, because there is no permanent population, so there is no community willing to deal with it, and Qingdao Road Office do not accept at present.
我和女朋友分手了。
I broke up with my girlfriend.
我已经准备等到3月10日了。
I'm ready to wait until March 10th.
02看着救护车灯在医院窗户上闪，挺害怕卓然 | 滞留武汉想回河南1月19日，我从河南到武汉第三医院首义院区就医。
Watching the ambulance light flash on the hospital window, I was afraid to return to Wuhan and wanted to return to Henan on January 19.
来之前曾向主治医生询问不明原因肺炎情况，医生答复说没有关系，我就按原计划来了。
I had asked the attending physician about the pneumonia, but the doctor replied that it was okay, and I went as planned.
武汉封城前，我刚做完手术也走不了。
Wuhan before the closure of the city, I just finished the operation can not walk.
身体恢复后，我不知道去哪儿就一直住在医院。
When I recovered, I didn't know where to stay in the hospital.
医生护士们的装备从不戴口罩到普通医用口罩，再到防护服、防护眼罩。
Doctors and nurses wear everything from masks to regular medical masks to protective clothing and eye protection.
后来，科室医生被抽调去支援方舱。
Later, the section doctors were drawn in to support the cabin.
这里医务人员不够，为方便管理，就把不同科室的患者整合到了一起。
Here the medical staff is insufficient, in order to facilitate management, the patients from different sections were integrated together.
我所在院区不接收发热病人，但有发热门诊。
I do not accept febrile patients in the courtyard, but there is a fever clinic.
科室合并后，我被搬到了发热门诊楼上的2楼病房，楼下正对着发热门诊。
When the sections were merged, I was moved to the second floor ward on the fever clinic floor, just below the heating clinic.
晚上，我看着救护车灯光在窗户上闪，说实话挺害怕的。
At night, I watched the ambulance lights flash on the window, and I was really scared.
2月7日，我打了12345市长热线，问有没有针对滞留外地人的离汉政策。
On February 7, I called the mayoral hotline 12345 to ask if there was a departure policy for outsiders.
工作人员记录了我的情况。
The staff took note of me.
之后，我还打了很多不同部门的电话。
After that, I made a lot of phone calls to different departments.
10日，工作人员通知我第二天到某酒店安置点办登记手续。
On the 10th, the staff informed me to check in at a hotel resettlement site the next day.
如今，我就每天在“滞留群”里看他们怼架，然后和大家商量怎么离开，不过折腾到最后，就还是等着。
Today, I watch them every day in the "stranded group" and talk to everyone about how to leave, but at the end of the day, I wait.
03女儿一岁生日，我哭了一个晚上周舟 | 滞留武汉想回云南我和丈夫在云南工作，定居，那边有个刚断奶的孩子。
Wuhan wants to return to Yunnan. My husband and I worked and settled in Yunnan, where we had a recently weaned child.
1月18日，我和丈夫到武汉，看望正在同济医院住院的婆婆。
On January 18, my husband and I went to Wuhan to visit my mother-in-law who was hospitalized in Tongji Hospital.
本来计划是，23号我回云南照顾孩子，丈夫留下照顾老人。
The plan was that I would return to Yunnan on the 23rd to look after the children and the husband to take care of the elderly.
当天网约车定的是早上8点去长沙机场，后来司机通知我4点走，我才看了下新闻发现疫情严重了。
On that day, the train was scheduled to go to Changsha airport at 8: 00 a.m., and then the driver told me to leave at 4: 00, I just read the news and found the epidemic serious.
当时我就犹豫回还是不回，回的话那边没有任何防护措施，而且不清楚病毒的传播路径，如果运气不好带了疾病回去，孩子怎么办？另外，有当年非典的经历，我想着最多耽误一个月，所以，最后没有和司机出城。
At the time, I hesitated to go back, there was no protection, there was no clear way to spread the virus, if bad luck took the disease back, children do? In addition, the SARS experience, I would like to delay up to a month, so finally did not get out of town with the driver.
来武汉时，我们住的酒店是100元/天，封城后酒店不让住了，又租个民宿，也是每天100。
When we came to Wuhan, we stayed in a hotel of 100 yuan per day, closed after the closure of the hotel, and rent a residential accommodation, also 100 per day.
小区封闭管理后，二手房东的民宿也不让住了。
After the closed management of the residential area, the second-hand owner of the residential housing is also not allowed.
我们就找了现在的短租房，70元/天。
We found the current short rental housing, 70 yuan / day.
断断续续的，我们囤了一个月的生活物资，因为快递人员不让进来，所以想找人拖一下，不过没人愿意帮忙。
On and off, we hoard supplies for a month, because couriers don't let us in, so we're looking for someone to put us off, but no one wants to help.
个人防护方面，我们基本不出门，确实有人来排查了，但只是登记了下，并没量体温。
Personal protection, we basically do not go out, it is true that someone came to check, but only registered under, and did not take temperature.
孩子目前由他外婆照顾。
The child is currently in the care of his grandmother.
2月14日，孩子满一周岁，我哭了一个晚上，就担心他吃喝、生病这些事情，而且外婆的身体也不是很好。
On February 14, after my child turned one year old, I cried all night, worrying about his eating, drinking, getting sick and not being in good health.
之前我心态挺崩溃的，后来加入到“滞留群”里，看了其他人的情况，感觉自己还不算太糟糕。
Before my mentality quite collapsed, and then joined the "stranded group," to see the situation of others, feel that they are not too bad.
现在就盼着对滞留群体的统一政策能尽快出来。
It is now hoped that a unified policy for the remaining groups will emerge as soon as possible.
04湖北放行，可老家始终不让回万归 | 滞留湖北某县想回临沂1月19日，一家五口开车从山东到湖北探亲，计划一周后返回。
Hubei was released but never allowed to return to a county in Hubei province. On January 19, a family of five drove from Shandong to Hubei province to visit their families, planning to return a week later.
我就带了两套换洗衣服，半月量的奶粉和尿不湿，小儿子体质差，辅食机也带了，但没过几天，孩子还是出现了上吐下泻的情况。
I took two change clothes, half a month of milk powder and urine not wet, the youngest son's poor health, the auxiliary food machine, but a few days later, the child still had vomiting and diarrhea.
年三十晚上有朋友告诉我，全省高速将会在凌晨十二点封闭。
Year 30 evening friends told me that the province's high-speed will be closed at 12: 00 a.m.
我当时想这是不是谣言，封武汉不至于波及邻市的小县城。
I wondered if this was a rumor that Wuhan would not spread to the small county of a neighbouring city.
这儿住的是婆婆以前的老房子，亲戚接继了些蔬菜。
Here lived the old house of her mother-in-law, and her relatives took over some vegetables.
后来，老公就天天看哪个群里有偷着卖菜奶水果的，但有时候上午联系好了，下午人家又不送了，说是交通管制。
Later, my husband would see which group had stolen vegetables and fruits every day, but sometimes I get in touch with them in the morning, but in the afternoon, they don't give them any more.
社区给到的配送物资清单里也没看到奶粉、尿不湿这些。
The community to the distribution list also did not see milk powder, urine wet these.
闺女作业本都是我自己画的，用的教具也是自己做的。
I did my own drawings of my girls' homework, and I made my own teaching aids.
家里一个月有两万的房贷、车贷，时不时会收到银行的催缴电话。
The family has 20, 000 mortgages, car loans a month, from time to time will receive a bank call.
我们这儿没有人来排查量体温。
We don't have anyone here to take our temperature.
有一天，老公不舒服，躺下了，我汗毛都竖起来了。
One day, my husband was sick, lying down, my hair bristling up.
另外，他心脏本身不大好，真怕有什么闪失，小县城医疗能力有限。
In addition, his heart itself is not very good, really afraid of what blunder, small county medical capacity is limited.
回去的话要办手续。
We have to go through the formalities.
2月20日，派出所让我开山东临沂的接收证明，然后湖北这儿再有个健康证明，他们就能协助返回。
On February 20, the police station asked me to issue a acceptance certificate for Linyi, Shandong Province, and then Hubei Province has another health certificate, so they can help return.
我开了单位的接收证明，湖北县城这边刚开始不认可，说需要街道接收证明，于是就卡在了这个环节。
I opened the unit's acceptance certificate, Hubei county side just did not recognize, said the need for street acceptance certificate, so stuck in this link.
老家区防疫指挥部还告诉我，就算回去也得集中隔离，一人一间屋。
Home area cordon sanitaire also told me, even if return also must centralize quarantine, one person room room.
可孩子还在哺乳期。
But the baby is still nursing.
况且，孩子现在连口罩都没有，去体检中心开健康证明也有风险。
Moreover, the child now does not even have a mask, there is a risk to go to the health center to issue a health certificate.
2月22日，我又和老公吵了一架，他心疼孩子，不同意回去集中隔离。
On Feb. 22, I had another argument with my husband, and he loved the child and refused to go back to concentrate.
24日，区防疫指挥部又说，街道如果让回去就可以居家隔离。
24, the district epidemic prevention command said that the street if allowed to go back home can be isolated.
现在是，有了健康证明，湖北县城这儿就能放行，但街道又打来电话讲，还是不让回去。
Now, with the health certificate, Hubei County can be released here, but the street called again to say, or not to return.
不过，我们决定了，回去再说，到家了应该不会强制集中隔离。
We decided, however, to go back and say that when we got home there should be no forced segregation.
05街头流浪，去方舱医院做安保杜杰 | 滞留武汉想回绵阳我是来武汉找女朋友。
I've come to Wuhan to find a girlfriend. I've come to Wuhan to find a girlfriend.
过年那会儿，她跟家人开车先回的家。
When the New Year came, she and her family drove home first.
结果，我就赶上封城了，找了家旅馆住了一个礼拜。
As a result, I caught up with the city and stayed at a hotel for a week.
之后，房东不让住了。
After that, the landlord stopped.
从2月1日开始，我在江夏区藏龙岛附近流浪了4天，那时候宾馆要么关了，要么住满了，要么价格高得离谱，外卖一顿60以上，慢慢的越来越贵，到最后外卖也没得可点。
From Feb. 1, I spent four days wandering around Tanglong Island in the Jiangxia area, when the hotel was either closed or full, or the price was outrageously high.
之前兼职时认识的中介说，洪山体育广场武昌方舱医院在招“志愿者”。
Before part-time recognition of the intermediary said that Hongshan Sports Square Wuchang Square Hospital in the recruitment of "volunteers."
我打求助电话无果后，才通过他加入了安保公司的巡逻队。
After I failed to call for help, I joined the security company's patrol through him.
他们对外说是志愿者巡逻队。
They said it was a volunteer patrol.
巡逻队要进内舱，8小时工作制230元/天，外围站岗12小时也是230。
The patrol was to enter the cabin at an eight-hour working day of 230 yuan per day and a perimeter post of 230 hours.
不过，无论是中介还是安保公司，我跟哪方都没正式合同。
But neither the middleman nor the security company has a formal contract with me.
这边开始住的大酒店，5号我刚来那几天，饭菜很好，虾有味道，鸡腿也有味道。
The hotel I started living here, Number 5 I just got here a few days ago, the food was good, shrimp had a taste, chicken legs had a taste.
过了段时间住宿换到如家，饭菜也不好吃了，但我还是觉得有点浪费物资。
After a period of accommodation to change home, the food is not delicious, but I still feel a little waste of material.
个人防护上，我们有普通医用口罩，舱外巡逻发了套雨衣，反复穿。
Personal protection, we have ordinary medical masks, extra-vehicular patrol issued a raincoat, repeatedly wear.
现在我不想干了，危险。
I don't want to do it now. It's dangerous.
2月22日，我跟中介掰扯了半天工资，最后算上加班时间，他给了我4780块钱。
On Feb. 22, I had a half-day job with a middleman, and he paid me $4, 780, including overtime.
晚上出来后没地儿住，我又流浪了一天。
When I came out at night and no land to live, I wandered about for another day.
23日傍晚，“滞留群”的群友帮打了一圈电话，然后政府来人把我安置在了一家宾馆。
On the evening of the 23rd, the group of "stranded group" made a ring of phone calls, and then the government came to place me in a hotel.
我兜里确实没钱，还欠了20万的债，家人并不知道我在武汉的情况。
I do not have money in my pocket, but I still owe 200,000, the family did not know what I was doing in Wuhan.
这也是第一次流落街头，后悔是没用的，就算对一个赌狗的救赎吧，我早已经不赌了。
This is also the first time on the street, regret is useless, even to a gambling dog redemption bar, I have not gambled.
（应受访者要求，叶青、韩猛、卓然、周舟、万归、杜杰为化名）*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
(At the request of the respondents, Ye Qing, Han Meng, Zhuang Ran, Zhou Zhou, Wangui and Dujie as aliases) * The head map is bought in Visual China's Recommended Reading: All original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
滞留湖北的5个外地人和他们的5种遭遇。
Five outsiders stranded in Hubei Province and their 5 encounters.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "滞留湖北的5个外地人和他们的5种遭遇";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 5 outsiders at Hubei & amp; their 5 & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "心情就像过山车一样。
var msg _ desc = & quot; was in a roller coaster mood.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '直播卖车能救车企吗？',。
A: Can a live car sell a car at the company's service?
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉卫健委往事',。
At the service of Wuhan Fitness & amp; Health Committee.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '一个村庄的新冠肺炎乌龙事件',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
