新冠防疫到乡村：武汉百公里外，一个县的防控日志。
Xinguan epidemic prevention in the countryside: Wuhan 100 kilometers away, a county control log.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
1月23日武汉封城前，有近70万黄冈人从武汉返乡，并带回新冠疫情。
On January 23, Wuhan before the closure of the city, nearly 700,000 Huanggang people returned home from Wuhan, and brought back the new crown epidemic.
这些返乡人员分布在黄冈市下辖的10个县市区。
The returnees are located in 10 districts and municipalities under the jurisdiction of the city of Huanggang.
其中一个人口百万的县，确诊病例数在全市排名靠前。
One of the million counties has the highest number of confirmed cases in the city.
曾在武汉出现的床位紧缺、物资告急、病毒检测困难，在这座县城，也悉数重演。
There was a shortage of beds in Wuhan, supplies urgent, virus detection difficulties, in this county, all repeated.
该县大部分人口分布在乡镇和农村，空间范围广，基层防控力量相对薄弱。
Most of the county's population in the township and rural areas, a wide range of space, grass-roots control power is relatively weak.
县里派出干部，进驻到600多个村，协助督导开展防疫工作。
The county sent cadres to more than 600 villages to help supervise and carry out epidemic prevention work.
封村封路、宣传疫情、组织隔离、消毒杀菌、入户排查……一位驻村干部感觉：方方面面都到达了极限。
Seal the village, spread the epidemic, organize isolation, disinfect sterilization, enter the house inspection... a village cadre feel: all have reached the limit.
2020年1月21日，农历腊月廿七，湖北省黄冈市下辖的一个县，开始热闹起来，在外务工的人纷纷返乡，一定要赶上腊月廿八回家“还福”。
January 21, 2020, the Lunar New Year 27, Huanggang City, Hubei Province, under the jurisdiction of a county, began to lively, migrant workers have returned home, must catch the twenty-eighth to return home "Blessed.
“还福”是当地春节期间最隆重的一个日子，人们要在这一天吃“发财饭”。
"Fu" is the local Spring Festival during the most solemn day, people to eat on this day "rich rice."
一大早，家家户户都会关上大门，摆上鸡鸭鱼肉祭祖，其乐融融地吃上一顿饭，吃完之后才能开门、放鞭炮，祈福新年。
Early in the morning, every family will close the door, put on the chicken, duck, fish and meat ancestors, happily eat a meal, eat before opening the door, setting off firecrackers, blessing the New Year.
他们压根想不到，一场巨大的疫情危机正在逼近。
They had no idea that a huge epidemic was looming.
在县城工作生活的李承（化名），腊月廿八晚上去火车站，接回了在江苏工作的孩子。
Li Cheng (alias), who worked and lived in the county, went to the railway station on the night of 28 December to pick up the children working in Jiangsu.
事后他说，早知疫情如此严峻，说什么也不会让儿子回湖北。
After the event, he said that the early knowledge of the outbreak is so severe, said nothing will let his son back to Hubei.
由于疫情影响，儿子在春节假期结束后还无法返回江苏上班，但一家人聚在一起的时间仍然屈指可数。
Because of the outbreak, the son was unable to return to work in Jiangsu after the Spring Festival, but the family still had little time to get together.
10天后，李承就要从县城下乡，去执行驻村防疫的任务。
Ten days later, Li Cheng will go to the countryside from the county to carry out the task of vaccination in the village.
1月30日（同日，黄冈市卫健委原主任唐志红被免职），县里下发紧急通知，要求各单位的驻村干部必须前往驻点村，协助督导镇村开展疫情防控工作。
January 30 (same day, the former director of the Huanggang City Health Committee Tang Zhihong was dismissed), the county issued an emergency notice that all units resident in the village must go to the villages to help supervise the work of disease prevention and control.
截至1月30日24时，黄冈市累计报告确诊新冠肺炎病例573例，死亡12例，成为湖北省内除武汉之外疫情最严重的地市。
By 2400 hours on January 30, 573 new cases of pneumonia and 12 deaths had been reported in Huanggang, making it the worst city in Hubei province with the exception of Wuhan.
李承所在的县累计报告58例，在黄冈排名前五。
Li Cheng in the county cumulative report 58 cases, in Huanggang ranked in the top five.
据了解，在1月23日武汉封城前，有近70万黄冈人从武汉返乡。
It is understood that on January 23, Wuhan before the closure of the city, nearly 700,000 Huanggang people from Wuhan return home.
这些人员分散在黄冈下辖10个县市区的广大农村。
These personnel are scattered throughout Huanggang under the jurisdiction of 10 counties and municipalities in the vast rural areas.
给各地乡村基层的防疫工作带来不小的压力。
To the rural grass-roots epidemic prevention work has brought no small pressure.
2月初至今，李承一直住在村里，协助落实管控交通、宣传防疫、入户排查等工作，还要帮助隔离中的村民采买生活物资、药品。
Since the beginning of February, Li Chengzhong has been living in the village, helping to control traffic control, promoting epidemic prevention, carrying out house searches and other work, and helping villagers in isolation to buy living materials and medicines.
和他一样执行驻村任务的干部，以及马上要返工、春耕的村民，都在等待疫情结束，早日解封。
Cadres on village missions like him, as well as villagers about to resume work and spring ploughing, are waiting for the end of the epidemic and the early release of the disease.
疫情从武汉来该县第一例高度疑似新冠病例出现在1月16日之前。
The outbreak of the disease from Wuhan came to the county's first highly suspected new crown case before January 16.
县人民医院医生丁晴记得很清楚，第一例病人是通过CT筛查出来的。
County People's Hospital doctor Ding Qing remembered very clearly, the first patient was screened through CT.
“当时医院就已经警觉了，立即腾空感染科病区，设置10间重症病房，调配呼吸机、监护仪等医疗设施20套，开始每天发放医用口罩、防护帽，并有专人督促医生戴。
"The hospital was alerted and immediately evacuated the infected area, set up 10 intensive care units, deployed 20 medical facilities such as ventilators and monitors, started distributing medical masks and protective headgear every day, and had special staff to urge doctors to wear them.
”此时县城里还没有任何异常，满大街少有戴口罩的人。
There was nothing unusual about the town at the time, and there were few masks on the streets.
1月17日，李承还去武汉参加了一个活动。
On January 17, Li Cheng also went to Wuhan to participate in an event.
几天后，武汉的几个朋友想过来玩，特意问李承：能不能来？李承不假思索地说：“你们又不是病毒，来就是了。
A few days later, a few friends of Wuhan want to come over to play, especially asked Li Cheng: Can you come? Li Cheng said without thinking: "You are not viruses, just come.
”不过，就在那几天，县人民医院里的发热、咳嗽病人突然多了起来，丁晴每天的门诊量由几个增加到二十几个，患者大多是从武汉回来的务工人员。
However, in those days, the people's hospital in the county of fever, cough patients suddenly began to rise, Ding Qing the number of outpatient from a few to more than 20, the majority of patients returned from Wuhan workers.
1月19日，根据上级通知安排，县人民医院所有医务人员紧急参加了关于冠状病毒的学习培训。
On January 19, all medical staff of the county People's Hospital participated in an urgent learning training on the coronavirus, as advised by their superiors.
也是从当天开始，该院的CT设备开始高负荷运转。
Also from the same day, the hospital's CT equipment began to operate at high capacity.
“像这样发热、咳嗽的病人，全部规定要做CT，检测人员忙得不得了，每天光排队照CT的，就有一百多个……”丁晴说，医院很快住满了发热患者。
"All the patients with fever and cough like this are required to have CT, and the staff is so busy that every day there are more than 100 people queuing up for CT," Ding said.
“呼吸内科的病人太多，医生根本忙不过来。
"There are so many patients in the respiratory department that doctors are simply too busy.
就把内分泌、肿瘤科等几个门诊都停了，这几个科室的医生帮着分诊。
Endocrine, oncology and a few out-patient clinics were stopped, the doctors of these departments to help with the diagnosis.
”根据县防疫指挥部的安排，县人民医院和县中医院作为收治新冠病人的定点医院。
County People's Hospital and County Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine are designated hospitals for new crown patients according to the arrangements of the county epidemic prevention command.
前者收治重症，后者收治轻症和疑似患者。
The former treated severe cases, while the latter treated mild and suspected patients.
丁晴回忆，县人民医院的感染科有4层楼，很快就住满了重症患者。
Ding Qing recollects, the infection department of county people's hospital has 4 floor, full of serious patient very quickly.
为了分担接诊压力，县妇幼保健院也设置了预检分诊和发热门诊。
In order to share the burden of treatment, county maternal and child health care homes also set up pre-screening and fever clinics.
各乡镇卫生院、社区卫生服务中心，开设预检分诊点和发热诊室。
Township health clinics, community health services centres, the opening of pre-screening clinics and heating rooms.
曾在武汉出现的床位紧缺、物资告急、检测困难，在与武汉直线距离一百公里外的这座县城，也悉数重演。
Wuhan, which had a shortage of beds, supplies urgent, difficult to detect, in the Wuhan straight line 100 kilometers away from the county, also all repeat.
病毒检测是确诊患者的关键指标。
Virus detection is a key indicator for the diagnosis of patients.
但在1月25日前后，县人民医院的试剂盒就用完了。
But around January 25, the county People's Hospital's kit ran out.
“我们接诊的话，只能做一个甲流、乙流检查，检测新冠病毒的核酸试剂稀缺。
"When we receive a diagnosis, we can only do a A-flow, B-flow test to detect the scarcity of nucleic acid reagents for the new crown virus.
”丁晴说，在这期间，县里收治住院的标准为核酸检验阳性。
Ding said the standard for admission to hospitals in the county during this period was nucleic acid-positive.
她认为，这致使一部分隐形患者游荡在外，扩大了病毒蔓延。
This, she believes, causes some invisible patients to wander outside, amplifying the spread of the virus.
2月初，试剂盒得到充分供应，但县人民医院只有3个检测员，还是忙不过来。
At the beginning of February, kits were fully supplied, but the county People's Hospital, with only three inspectors, was overwhelmed.
据了解，新型冠状病毒核酸检测的实验室必须达到至少二级生物安全实验室级别，同时采用三级个人防护，才能开展检测。
It is understood that the new coronavirus nucleic acid testing laboratory must be at least level 2 biosafety laboratory level, using three levels of personal protection to carry out the test.
“临近几个县都做不了检测，只好把标本都送到我们这，白天采样、晚上检测。
"Several nearby counties could not do the tests, so we had to send the specimens to us, day sampling, night testing.
”丁晴说。
'said Ding Qing.
直到2月中旬，山东医疗支援队（山东、湖南对口援助黄冈）携带物资陆续赶来，并派来3名检测员，病毒检测的压力才得以释放。
Until mid-February, Shandong Medical Support Team (Shandong, Hunan Province counterpart assistance Huanggang) arrived with supplies, and sent three inspectors, the virus detection pressure was released.
床位资源也在有限的空间内不断腾挪。
Bedspace resources are also constantly shifting within the limited space available.
截至2月10日，县人民医院总共腾出了感染科、肿瘤科、综合楼三栋楼，作为新冠肺炎病区（山东医疗队后来接管了其中一个），每个病区可容纳60名患者。
As at 10 February, the county People's Hospital had vacated a total of three buildings -- the Infection Department, the Oncology Unit and the General Building -- to serve as the new crown pneumonia area (one of which was later taken over by the Shandong Medical Team), each with a capacity for 60 patients.
距离县城十几公里的一个镇卫生院，也被迅速征用为定点收治机构，作为第四病区。
A township hospital, located more than 10 kilometers from the county seat, was also quickly requisitioned as a designated treatment facility as the fourth disease area.
截至2月10日24时，全县累计报告确诊病例277例。
As at 2400 hours on 10 February, 277 confirmed cases had been reported throughout the county.
△ 隔离病区患者的感谢信 （受访者提供）对比发病人数，床位依然紧张。
Thank-you notes for patients in isolated areas Compared with the number of cases, beds are still tight.
县里本着“宁可备而不用”的原则，决定紧急征用县妇幼保健院在建的新院区，将其改造成应急后备定点收治医院，预计可提供床位200张。
Based on the principle of "better prepared than not," the county decided to urgently requisition the new compound under construction in the county maternal and child health care hospital and transform it into an emergency reserve hospital with an expected capacity of 200 beds.
防控不断升级医院只是对抗疫情的最后一道防线。
Prevention and control of escalating hospitals is only the last line of defence against the epidemic.
若不切断病毒传播途径，控制潜在传染源，再多医疗资源投入也是抽刀断水。
If the virus does not cut off the transmission route, control the potential source of infection, then more medical resources input is also cut off.
1月23日，该县新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控工作指挥部发布1号通告，宣布实行交通管制：从次日0时起，全县范围内公交、县乡客运、长途客运、出租车和轮渡码头暂停运营，火车站离县通道暂时关闭。
On January 23, the Pneumonia Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in the County issued Notice No. 1 announcing that traffic control would be enforced: From 0000 hours the county-wide bus, county and township passenger transport, long-distance passenger transport, taxis and ferry terminals were temporarily closed.
和其他地区一样，本县境内所有进出道口也开始实施过往车辆及人员排查，对进出人员进行体温测量，有发热症状的，迅速安排到指定医疗点做进一步诊治。
As in other areas, traffic and personnel checks have been carried out at all entrances and exits in the county, temperature checks have been carried out on people entering and leaving the county, and those with fever symptoms have been quickly referred to designated medical points for further treatment.
1月31日，交通管制升级，根据黄冈市疫情防控指挥部的命令，从当日0时起，全县城区除参与疫情防控、医疗救护、生活生产保障、应急救援的车辆外，其它车辆一律禁行。
On January 31, traffic control was upgraded and, according to the order of the Huanggang epidemic prevention and control command, from 0000 hours on the same day all county-wide vehicles were banned, except those involved in epidemic prevention and control, medical aid, life and work security and emergency rescue vehicles.
各村组、自然湾、社区、居民小区的进出机动车道只预留一条应急道路，其余道路全部封闭。
Only one emergency road has been reserved for motorway access to villages, nature bays, communities and small areas. The rest of the roads are closed.
县级防疫指挥部进一步要求：各村组、自然湾、社区、居民小区实行封闭管理、道路管制，无特殊原因，人车均不得出入。
The county-level epidemic prevention command further requires that all village groups, natural bays, communities and residential areas be under closed management and road control, and that no person or vehicle should enter or leave the country without special reason.
全县人口一百万，但城区范围不大，常住人口20余万，其余大部分人口分布在十多个乡镇（区、处），下面还有600余个行政村。
The population of the county is one million, but the urban areas are not large, with a resident population of more than 200,000.
换句话说，基层防控的重点和难点，其实是在广大农村。
In other words, the focus and difficulty of grass-roots control is actually in the vast rural areas.
△ 受访者供图1月底，县防疫指挥部发布通知，安排干部下沉到村，每村至少确保一名国家干部进村入湾，督促村（居）民委员会、村民小组对疫情防控工作查缺补漏，“强化措施，严防死守，遏制疫情扩散蔓延”。
At the end of January, the county epidemic prevention command issued a notice to arrange for cadres to descend to the villages. Each village should ensure at least one state cadre enter the bay.
李承下乡，就是去执行这项任务。
Li Cheng went to the countryside to carry out this task.
一个村的防疫战：5个人，管1738人李承要去的村，距离县城20多公里，也是他去年参加扶贫工作的驻点村。
A village vaccination campaign: 5 people, despite 1738 Li Chenggong to the village, more than 20 kilometers from the county seat, he also participated in poverty alleviation work last year in the village.
全县每个村之前都派驻了扶贫工作人员，“指挥部命令，扶贫工作就地转为防疫任务，所以我们就下来了。
Each village in the county before the deployment of anti-poverty staff, "the command order, anti-poverty in situ into the task of immunization, so we came down.
”刚进村，李承就遇到一个村民没戴口罩。
Just after entering the village, Li Cheng met a villager who was not wearing a mask.
而县里要求的“十个一律”，其中一条就是“所有外出人员一律佩戴口罩”。
One of the ten "one size fits all" requirements in the county is that "all people going out wearing masks."
“摇下车窗，问他，他说抽烟，有口罩，我喊‘抽烟也要戴口罩！’，然后他就戴上了口罩。
"Shake down the window and ask him if he smokes and has a mask, and I say, 'Smoke and wear a mask!' and then he puts on a mask.
”李承在当天的日记里这样写道。
"Li Cheng wrote in his diary that day.
那天上午，李承、镇卫生院的医生，和村支书一起，到各小组粘贴标语，宣传“十个一律”。
That morning, Li Cheng, the town hospital doctor, and the village branch of the book, to paste signs to promote the "ten uniform."
全村有10个小组，全部走遍，一趟下来至少十公里。
There are ten groups in the village, all of which travel at least ten kilometers at a time.
“铜锣一响，就有很多人朝我们看，有人远远地看，有人开半扇门，从门缝朝外看，还有人过来问是不是发口罩……”△ 当地“十个一律”宣传栏 （受访者提供）李承的工作单位和镇政府，确实陆续下发了一些口罩，他和4名村干部使用绰绰有余，但对全村村民而言，则是杯水车薪。
"When the gongs go off, many people look at us. From a distance, some people open half a door and look out the door. Others come and ask if they are wearing masks.
“全村1738人，怎么分？口罩又是消耗品。
"1738 people in the village, how to divide? Mask is consumables.
我们只能给到执勤和拖运垃圾的人员用。
We can only give it to people on duty and hauling rubbish.
”据了解，全村有389人是外地返乡的。
"It is understood that 389 people in the village have returned home from other places.
除了排查这些返乡人员，李承的主要工作就是——挨家挨户发体温计，劝阻打麻将的、钓鱼的、不戴口罩出门的。
In addition to screening the returnees, Li's main job is to go door-to-door thermometers, discourage mahjong, fishing, and go out without a mask.
疫情期间，加上又是春节，农村聚集打牌的情况很多。
During the epidemic period, coupled with the Spring Festival, the countryside gathered a lot of playing cards.
按照上级命令，李承得去收麻将机。
As ordered by his superior, Li Chengde went to collect Mahjong machines.
但自动麻将机太笨重，不好处理。
But the automatic mahjong machine is too bulky to handle.
李承想了一个办法：从一副麻将中收上来10张牌，代为保管，疫情之后再归还。
Li Cheng thought of a way: from a pair of mahjong pick up 10 cards, take over the custody of the disease after the return.
“有一个读书的小女孩，她说，你们这么做有什么法律依据吗？我该怎么回答她呢？我知道她的意思，但这个时候没有办法。
"There was a little girl who was reading," she said. "Do you have any legal basis for doing so? How can I answer her? I know what she means, but there is nothing to do at this time."
”对于劝阻村民外出，李承表示，一开始根本劝不住，10个人能劝一半就不错了，到后来才稍微好一点。
"To dissuade villagers from going out, Li Cheng said, saying that at first he could not persuade at all, and that 10 people could persuade half as well, only to be a little better later.
也有特殊情况。
There are also special circumstances.
上个星期，湖北下雪的第二天，其他村一个村民生病，因为交通隔绝，没有车，就由儿子儿媳用推车推去镇里卫生院，经过李承所管辖的路卡，李承没有阻拦。
Last week, the day after the snow in Hubei, another villager fell ill, because of traffic isolation, no car, by his son-in-law pushed a cart to the town health center, Li Chengzhi jurisdiction over the checkpoint, Li Cheng did not obstruct.
村里到镇上，推着车走过去，大约需要一个多小时。
It took more than an hour for the village to get to the town and push its way.
△受访者供图从2月14日中午开始，该县的防疫措施再度升级，全域实施战时管制。
From noon on Feb. 14, survey results show that epidemic prevention measures in this county have been upgraded once again, and wartime controls have been implemented throughout the territory.
截至2月13日24时，全县累计报告确诊病例308例（含临床确诊病例20例），比两周前增加了4倍。
As at 2400 hours on 13 February, 308 confirmed cases (including 20 clinically confirmed cases) had been reported throughout the county, a fourfold increase over the previous two weeks.
战时管制状态下，居民一律居家，禁止外出。
In wartime control, residents are not allowed to go out at home.
若是违反规定，经巡逻民警检查后，将被强制送往县体育中心接受集中教育学习。
In case of violation of the regulations, after the police patrol will be forced to send to the county sports center for intensive education study.
违反禁令人员及所在单位和社区名单，每天都会公布上网。
The list of violators and their workplaces and communities is published on a daily basis.
目前全县已有70多人接受强制学习。
More than 70 people in the county have now received compulsory education.
李承的工作又多了一项——集中给村民代买物资。
Li Cheng's job was to concentrate on buying supplies for the villagers.
他和村干部5个人，要负责解决村里1738个人的吃饭问题。
He and five village officials were responsible for feeding 1,738 people in the village.
村民提前一天把所需的生活用品名称、数量汇总到村委会，村里派专人去镇上采购。
Villagers bring up the names and quantities of daily necessities to the village committee one day in advance, and the village sends someone to go shopping in the town.
△ 村民的代购清单（受访者提供）还有的村民是慢性病患者，比如高血压、心脏病、痛风等，常年吃药的，需要买药。
There are also villagers with chronic diseases, such as hypertension, heart disease, gout, etc., who take medicine all year round and need to buy some medicine.
李承也会帮助代买。
Li Cheng will also help buy.
镇上有卫生院，外加两个定点药店。
The town has a clinic and two designated pharmacies.
但还有新的问题：比如，牙疼的人特别多，病因各异，镇上的卫生院没有专门的牙科，李承常常不知道该买哪些药；还有的药镇里没有，比如痛风患者需要的秋水仙碱、别嘌醇等，“买不到的话，就把信息汇集到镇里面，然后再想办法。
But there are also new problems: for example, toothaches are particularly common and the causes vary, the town's health center does not have a special dental unit, Li Cheng often does not know which drugs to buy, and there are others that don't, like colchicine and allopurinol for gout patients.
”替村民代购，也闹出不少啼笑皆非的事。
"For the villagers to buy, but also made a lot of ironic things.
要么是需求千奇百怪，有人甚至要买强效避孕药；要么是买回来东西嫌贵，比如猪肉；还有的，忘了给钱就把东西拿走。
There are even people who want to buy powerful contraceptives, or they can be too expensive to buy, like pork, or they can take things away without paying.
“村里堆了一堆前几天代买的卫生巾，去采买的是个男的，不懂这东西有什么讲究，要用这些东西的人也没说清楚卫生巾有大小之分，结果买一堆回来，仙女们才羞答答地说型号不符，拒绝收货，也不付款，退又退不了……”就像是有看不见的敌人尽管村里的工作有这样那样的困难，但对于战时管制，李承认为，还是有必要。
"The village piled up a pile of sanitary towels bought a few days before, went to buy a man, didn't understand the importance of the sanitary napkin, and didn't know the size of the sanitary napkin.
“病毒，谁都看不见。
"Virus, no one can see.
”幸运的是，到目前为止，他驻点的村，还没有发现新冠病例。
Fortunately, so far, no new cases have been found in the village where he is staying.
该村所在的镇，一共41个村，其中10个村合计发现了十多个病例。
More than a dozen cases were found in 10 of the 41 villages in the town where the village is located.
李承觉得，发现了病例的村子，工作反而好做一些，因为大家都怕。
Li Cheng felt it was easier to work in a village where cases had been found because everyone was afraid.
当然也容易走向另一个极端，比如把村与村之间道路全部封死，甚至堵住外地返乡村民的家门。
Of course, it is easy to go to the other extreme, such as completely sealing off the road between village and village, or even blocking the home of a returning villager.
孙毅（化名）驻点的村就没那么幸运。
The village where Sun Yi (alias) is stationed is not so lucky.
“还福”那天下午，从武汉打工返乡的一对夫妻，突然感觉不太舒服，送到医院后，隔天就被确诊。
"Also happy" that afternoon, from Wuhan return home from a couple, suddenly feel uncomfortable, sent to the hospital, the next day was diagnosed.
村里炸开了锅。
The village exploded the pot.
和那对夫妻有密切接触的村民，纷纷主动汇报。
The villagers, who were in close contact with the couple, volunteered to report.
这要放在前几天，是不可能发生的事。
That would have been impossible in the last few days.
因为有驻村经历，孙毅对村里情况比较了解，“有的人性格比较倔，在家里待不住，喜欢到处转一转，跑出去钓鱼，劝都劝不住。
Because of his experience in the village, Sun Yi knew the situation better. "Some people are stubborn and stay at home. They like to go around and go fishing.
但有了确诊患者之后，他们就很主动，闭门不出、自行隔离。
But with the diagnosis of the patient, they are very active, closed door, self-isolation.
量体温也比较配合，出现异常情况，上报就及时一些。
Temperature measurement is also more in line with unusual circumstances, reported in a timely manner.
”按照工作流程，碰到村民体温异常，孙毅要向镇政府报告，由镇卫生院统一派专门人员进行体温测量以后，再接到镇卫生院做进一步检查，如果症状符合，就直接送到县里去。
"According to the work flow, when the villagers had abnormal body temperature, Sun Yi would report to the township government, send specialists from the township hospitals to take temperature measurements and then receive them for further examination by the township hospitals.
孙毅是2月1日进的村，住在村委会的办公室。
Sun Yi, who entered the village on February 1, lives in the office of the village committee.
现在每天早上8点半准时醒，第一件事就是去开广播。
I wake up at 8: 30 every morning, and the first thing I do is to go on the radio.
那个像拉杆箱一样的立体音箱，就放在村委会办公楼的三楼阳台上。
The three-dimensional speaker, like a boom box, was on the third floor balcony of the village council office building.
“把音箱放在上面，大半个村都能听到。
"Put the speakers on it, half the village can hear you.
”孙毅说，除了村委会这个音箱之外，整个村一共有7个音箱，放置在各个空旷地，循环播放“十个一律”和发热病人管理等科普宣传内容，每天播8个小时左右。
"In addition to the village council's speakers, the village has seven speakers sitting in various open spaces, circulating popular science messages such as" Ten One-size-fits-all "and fever-patient management for about eight hours a day, Sun said.
一开始，村民很不习惯，觉得天天放，有点吵。
At first, the villagers were not used to it. They felt a little noisy and put it on everyday.
孙毅也觉得吵。
Sun Yi also felt noisy.
后来播放内容有所更新，比如物资怎么代买、测量体温怎么做，等等。
Later the broadcast content was updated, such as how to buy supplies, how to measure temperature, and so on.
李承驻点的村，是在道路卡点放录音，“现在已经没人听了,只是造势。
Li Chengzhong village, is placed in the road card point recording, "no one has heard now, just a pose.
”李承回想，刚开始手持喇叭进组进湾宣传，敲锣打鼓、走村串门，那股子热闹劲一过就没了。
Li Cheng recalled that he had just come into the bay with a trumpet, percussion drums, visiting the village, and the excitement was over.
驻村20多天后，李承的睡眠开始出现问题。
More than 20 days after the village, Li Cheng began to sleep problems.
乡下的夜，来得比城里早，也来得静。
The night in the country came earlier and calmer than in the city.
他每天晚上九点半就睡了，常常半夜醒来，恍惚不知道身在何处。
He goes to bed at 9: 30 every night and often wakes up in the middle of the night, not knowing where he is.
疫情持续的时间越长，内心的焦灼感越重。
The longer the outbreak continues, the greater the anxiety within.
很多驻村的同事出现了同样的症状——失眠。
Many colleagues in the village have the same symptom - insomnia.
李承这样描述：就像是有看不见的敌人，似有似无，能感觉到，又触摸不到，只能无望等待。
Li Cheng thus described: as if there is an invisible enemy, seems to have no, can feel, can not touch, can only hope to wait.
他感觉方方面面都到达了极限。
He felt that everything was reaching its limits.
封村封路、宣传疫情、组织隔离、消毒杀菌、入户排查、买药灌气、采购物资……这些事情历历在目，却又分不清昨天和今天。
Sealing the roads, publicizing the epidemic, organizing quarantine, disinfecting and sterilizing, entering homes, buying medicine and pouring gas, buying supplies... these things are very much in evidence, but I can't tell yesterday from today.
返工、春耕倒计时，等待彻底解封基层防疫究竟要持续多久，李承还不知道。
Rework, the countdown to spring ploughing, waiting for the complete lifting of the grass-roots epidemic prevention to continue for how long, Li Cheng still do not know.
因为做饭麻烦，食材又不太充足，他一天吃两餐（中午把早饭中饭一起吃）。
He ate two meals a day (lunch with lunch) because of the trouble of cooking and the insufficiency of the ingredients.
“刚开始的时候，因为要长时间下村，早上不吃的话，一天非常饿，所以我现在每天早上都要打起精神来，把饭做好。
"At first, I was very hungry because I had to go to the village for a long time. I didn't eat in the morning.
”2月2日出发时，他带了8斤米、3斤面，到第20天，吃掉了一半。
When he set out on February 2, he took eight kilograms of rice and three jacks, and on the twentieth day he ate half of them.
虽然之前打定主意驻村期间不回家，但在元宵节后一天，他还是回去了一趟。
Although he had made up his mind not to go home during the village, he went back one day after the Lantern Festival.
前后5个小时，花在路上的时间两小时，回家消毒用了半小时，吃了一顿饭，拿了些存放时间更久的腊肉、腊鱼，就立刻返回村里。
Five hours before and after, two hours on the road, half an hour to disinfect the house, a meal, some bacon and bacon that had been stored longer, and immediately returned to the village.
驻村时间久了，村民对李承的态度也悄然改变。
Longer stay in the village, the attitude of the villagers to Li Cheng also quietly changed.
一户人家小孩过生日，还给他送来几个包子。
A family of children's birthday, but also sent him a few steamed buns.
李承拍了照片，发朋友圈说：有好长时间没有吃包子了。
Li Chengpu took photos, hair friends said: for a long time did not eat steamed buns.
这个情节，也让他想起最开始去村民家测量体温，那些溢于言表的冷漠和疏远。
The plot also reminds him of the first time he went to the villagers' house to take a temperature, those overflowing with apathy and alienation.
以及有一次去收麻将，村民还扬言要上传视频，告到法院去。
And once went to collect mahjong, the villager also threatened to upload video, take to court.
疫情威胁之下，村民不管愿意与否，都不得不接受现状。
Villagers, like it or not, have to accept the status quo under the threat of the epidemic.
近日，李承一位朋友驻点的村，一位老中医冠心病突发，不幸离世。
Recently, a friend of Li Cheng resident village, an old Chinese medicine coronary heart disease burst, unfortunately passed away.
那位医生德高望重，村里老少都找他看过病。
The doctor was so respectable that he was looked after by all the villagers.
“要在平时，这样的老人上山，全村的人都要哭一场再送一程。
"In ordinary times, when such an old man goes up a hill, the whole village will cry and send a ride.
可是在疫情阴霾之下，当天就一切从简把老人的后事处理了。
But in the haze of the epidemic, that day everything from Jane to deal with the old man's affairs.
”然而，在这个季节，村民还有一件大事是耽搁不起的，那就是即将到来的春耕。
However, there is one more thing the villagers cannot afford to delay at this season: the coming spring ploughing.
一部分人肯定要去干农活、买种子肥料。
Some people must do farm work and buy seed fertilizer.
李承认为，关，终归是关不住的。
Li admitted that, after all, it is impossible to lock up.
返工潮也陆续开始了。
The influx of returnees has also begun.
孙毅透露，必须是所在的企业、单位开具同意返工的证明，当事人申请之后，村里再根据这一段时间的健康状况，把办理复工手续的文件送到镇政府，镇政府统一向县防疫指挥部汇报，获批之后，孙毅这边再放行。
After the application is made by the parties concerned, the village will send the documents to the township government, which will report them to the county epidemic prevention command in a unified way. After the approval, Sun will release the documents.
孙毅驻点的村外地返乡总共212人，目前已经放行24人，大部分是去广州。
Sun Yi camp outside the village to return to a total of 212 people, has now released 24 people, most of them to Guangzhou.
另一个问题，是很多待产的孕妇通行困难，乡镇卫生院不保险，去城里也不容易，去了，有的地方要隔离，回来，同样也要隔离。
Another problem is the difficulty of access for many expectant mothers. Township health centres are not safe and it is not easy to go to the cities.
李承曾劝说过一个孕妇，尽量别去产检，但那也是一种无奈的妥协。
Li Cheng once persuaded a pregnant woman, try not to go to check-up, but that is a helpless compromise.
截至2月24日24时，该县已经连续4天没有新增确诊病例。
As at 2400 hours on 24 February, there had been no new confirmed cases in the district for four consecutive days.
什么时候能彻底解封，大家都在等。
When will it be completely unsealed? Everybody's waiting.
谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706刘冉|责编微信号：foooorest我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Writing microsignal: tzz19930706 with microphone service. We respect original copyright and don't reprint it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠防疫到乡村：武汉百公里外，一个县的防控日志。
Xinguan epidemic prevention in the countryside: Wuhan 100 kilometers away, a county control log.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "新冠防疫到乡村：武汉百公里外，一个县的防控日志";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "驻村干部“以一当百”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
何时解封，大家都在等。
When will it be unsealed? Everybody's waiting.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
