防控「死角」中的精神病患。
Prevention and control of mental patients in the "dead end."
左异。
On the left.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
急需 A+ 型新冠肺炎康复患者血浆 —— 2 月 16 日，武汉市精神卫生中心一医生，生命垂危于金银潭医院。
Urgent need for plasma A + new crown pneumonia rehabilitation patients - Feb. 16, Wuhan City mental health center, a doctor, dying in the gold and silver pool hospital.
见此求助信息，柳樱更为焦虑。
See this help message, fuchsia even more anxious.
正为母亲（精神分裂 4 年）寻求入院治疗的她，意识到专业机构或已「沦陷」，无法正常应诊。
She is seeking hospital treatment for her mother (schizophrenia for four years), aware that professional institutions may be "sunk" and unable to respond properly.
柳樱的担忧，早于 2 月 8 日即现征兆。
Mr Sakura's concerns were apparent as early as February 8.
据《中国新闻周刊》报道，武汉市精神卫生中心发生院内感染，COVID-19 确诊医患约 80 人。
According to China News Weekly, hospital infection occurred at Wuhan Mental Health Center, and COVID-19 confirmed about 80 patients.
此外，「偶尔治愈」确认到，同于 2 月 16 日，武汉市精神卫生中心向感控专家请求支援；原因在于，其将作为定点医院，接收新冠肺炎合并精神疾病患者。
In addition, the "Occasional Healing" confirmed that on February 16, Wuhan Mental Health Center requested the assistance of sentinel specialists because it would serve as a designated hospital for patients with New Crown Pneumonia complicated with mental illness.
但柳樱的母亲，两次核酸检测前后阳阴不同。
But Liu Sakura's mother, two nucleic acid tests before and after different Yang Yin.
从而被拒之武汉市精神卫生中心在内的相关医院门外。
As a result of the denial of Wuhan City Mental Health Center outside the relevant hospitals.
同时，特殊医务人员的重压解决，却受阻于反馈渠道的封堵。
At the same time, the pressure of the special medical staff to solve, but blocked by the feedback channel.
多有武汉精神专科医护对「偶尔治愈」表示，疑似或确诊新冠肺炎病例出现时，相比于综合性医院的应急及隔离，更为滞后；而封闭管理的常态，则导致难以预测的风险骤增。
Many Wuhan psychiatrists said that "occasional cures" were more delayed than general hospitals in responding to suspected or confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, while the normal pattern of closed management led to a sharp increase in unpredictable risks.
2 月 18 日，国家卫健委发布国务院联防联控机制综合组针对「严重精神障碍患者治疗管理工作」的通知。
On February 18, the State Council issued the notice of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism (JCMB) of the State Council on the treatment and management of patients with severe mental disorders.
统计显示，17 省确诊新冠肺炎的严重精神障碍患者 323 名，43 人疑似。
Statistics show that 17 provinces confirmed the new crown pneumonia in 323 patients with severe mental disorders, 43 suspected.
不过，武汉一前线精神科室医师对「偶尔治愈」分析道，通知仅限于「严重精神障碍患者」，真实数据尚未明晰外；应对建议亦局限于政策指导，无责任到位式的落地要求。
However, a frontline psychiatrist in Wuhan analyzed the occasional cure, saying that the notification was limited to "severe mental disorder patients" and that the actual data was not clear. The recommendations were limited to policy guidance and did not require a responsible landing.
如此，围绕于精神病患的新冠肺炎防控矛盾，既陷入关注「死角」，又难再引发重视。
Thus, the contradictions surrounding the prevention and control of New Crown Pneumonia among mental patients have become both a concern and a challenge.
院内感染的恐慌武汉市精神卫生中心辖六角亭及二七两院区，编制床位 950 张，年门急诊量 30 余万人次，为湖北省首家三甲精神专科医院。
Hospital infection panic Wuhan city mental health center under the jurisdiction of the hexagonal pavilion and the 27 Bicameral District, 950 beds, more than 300,000 emergency cases a year, Hubei Province for the first three-A psychiatric hospital.
综合医务人员及病患家属的信息提供，「偶尔治愈」了解到，武汉市精神卫生中心首例新冠肺炎确诊于 1 月 20 日。
"Occasionally cured" information was provided by a combination of medical staff and family members who were informed that the first case of new crown pneumonia was diagnosed at Wuhan Mental Health Centre on January 20.
在此之后，医院虽有警惕，但相关举措仅限于发热通知。
After this, although the hospital is vigilant, but the initiative is limited to calorific notice.
2 月 7 日，武汉市精神卫生中心一例新冠肺炎病患死亡。
February 7, Wuhan City mental health center a case of death of patients with pneumonia.
1 月 26 日，武汉市精神卫生中心曾联系该病患家属，表示住院同区出现 2 名未被确诊为新冠肺炎的发热病人；2 月 5 日，家属再被告知，病患已呼吸困难，需送入重症监护室。
On 26 January, the Wuhan Mental Health Centre contacted the patient's family and indicated that two febrile patients who had not been diagnosed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia had appeared in the same district. On 5 February, the family was told that the patient was having difficulty breathing and needed to be admitted to intensive care unit.
彼时，武汉市精神卫生中心医患新冠肺炎确诊已达 80 人（医务人员 30 人，住院病患 50 人）。
At that time, Wuhan Mental Health Center, the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia has reached 80 (30 medical staff, 50 hospital patients).
对此，武汉市精神卫生中心回应道，初期认识不足，也不知晓存在人传人的情况，所以存在疏漏。
To this, Wuhan city mental health center answers, initial understanding is insufficient, also does not know existence person-to-person situation, therefore has the omission.
但武汉市精神卫生中心的院内感染事件，尚未推动武汉市内精神专科医院或科室的针对性防控升级。
However, the hospital infection of Wuhan Mental Health Center has not promoted the upgrading of specific prevention and control in Wuhan.
武汉市精卫中心院内感染严重图源：武汉市精卫中心官微「偶尔治愈」独家获悉，在精神专科上较为典型的武汉钢铁（集团）公司第二职工医院（下称「武钢二院」），即情况危急。
Wuhan Jingwei Center Hospital infection serious source: Wuhan Jingwei Center official micro-treatment "occasionally cured" exclusive learned that in the psychiatric specialty of Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Company Second Staff Hospital (hereinafter referred to as "WISCO II Hospital"), that is, the critical situation.
武钢二院虽为三乙医院，但其精神科为市级重点建设专科。
Although Wugang Second Hospital is the third B hospital, but its psychiatric department for the city key construction specialty.
疫情期间，由天津医疗队进驻支援。
During the outbreak, support was provided by Tianjin medical team.
目前，近 200 名精神病患，主要收治于该院专科住院部。
At present, nearly 200 mental patients, mainly admitted to the hospital's specialized inpatient department.
2 月 9 日前，武钢二院疑似及确诊病例隔离区，和专科住院部其余病房集中于同一楼层。
Before Feb. 9, the suspected and confirmed cases in WISCO II were concentrated on the same floor as the rest of the specialized inpatient wards.
医务人员因此存在暴露风险外，10 名精神病患亦感染（ 1 名死亡）。
In addition to the resulting exposure of medical staff, 10 mental patients were infected (1 died).
至 2 月 20 日，仅「偶尔治愈」了解到的武钢二院一科室数据显示，新冠肺炎确诊病例已上升至 20 人，疑似 8 人。
By February 20, only the "occasional cure" of WISCO Department data showed that the number of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia has risen to 20, suspected 8.
5 人死亡，9 人又检测转阴隔离。
Five died and nine were tested for vaginal isolation.
不仅如此，武钢二院精神专科医护，至今仍缺乏医疗物资保障。
Not only that, Wu Gang Institute of Psychiatric Specialist Medical Care, still lack of medical supplies guarantee.
口罩，医帽紧缺外，需 6 小时一更的防护服，24 小时仅 1 件配额。
Mask, medical cap scarce, need 6 hours a day more protective clothing, 24 hours only 1 quota.
吴今工作于武汉市一专科精神病院，据其透露，相比之下，武钢二院的情况在其所在医院更甚，且无任何诸如医疗队等外界力量援助。
Wu Jen, who works in a specialist mental hospital in Wuhan, said the situation was worse in his hospital and there was no outside assistance, such as medical teams.
吴今所在医院在疫情爆发时，决定停止接收病患；但自湖北省人民医院及武科大附属天佑医院被确定为新冠肺炎定点医院后，滞留两家医院的部分精神病患，开始转入其所在医院。
Wu Jin's hospital decided to stop receiving patients when the outbreak broke out. However, some mental patients in two hospitals were transferred to the hospital after the Hospital of People's Hospital of Hubei Province and Tian You Hospital affiliated with Vukoku University were designated as the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital.
之后，院内科室医患陆续出现发热症状，直到近期出现因呼吸衰竭的死亡病例后，医院方安排相关科室人员外出 CT 并提供防护服。
Afterwards, hospital doctors and patients developed febrile symptoms, until the recent death due to respiratory failure, the hospital arranged for the staff of the relevant departments to go out CT and provide protective clothing.
但除却出现死亡病例的科室，该院其他科室的防护服竟然不达标，「从早晨上班到下午，防护服会破损十几处」。
However, with the exception of the department where the death occurred, the other departments of the hospital did not meet the standard of protective clothing, "from the morning to the afternoon, protective clothing will be damaged more than a dozen."
更让吴今忧虑的，是目前该院一名护士已确诊新冠肺炎，「正在医院内部隔离，上报与否未知」。
What worries Mr Wu today is that a nurse at the hospital has now confirmed the new crown pneumonia, "being quarantined inside the hospital, whether reported or not."
一旦发生院内感染，后果无法想象。
In the event of nosocomial infections, the consequences are unimaginable.
院内感染的警醒，不仅在于诸如武汉市精神卫生中心的国内案例。
The alertness of nosocomial infection lies not only in domestic cases such as the Wuhan Mental Health Center.
据韩国 2 月 23 日通报，清道大南医院精神科住院楼栋出现封闭聚集感染，102 名住院病人中，99 人确诊为新冠肺炎。
South Korea on February 23, Ching Nan Hospital psychiatric inpatient building in the closed cluster infection, 102 in-patient, 99 confirmed as the new crown pneumonia.
院外求诊的无助柳樱已无所适从。
The helpless willows seeking treatment outside the hospital were overwhelmed.
连续联系武汉精神专科医院无果后，她开始考虑，如果母亲未感染，即使「撞运」到相关医院愿意收治，是否又将母亲置于另一危险情形。
After contacting Wuhan Psychiatric Hospital without success, she began to consider whether, if the mother was not infected, even if the "crash" was willing to be admitted to the hospital, she would put the mother in another dangerous situation.
但居家隔离，是每一位精神病患家属的困境。
But home isolation is the plight of every family member with mental illness.
柳樱说道，一旦发病，「谁也无法控制」。
Once the disease starts, "no one can control it," she said.
也正因此，当母亲「闹腾」起来，其身体虚弱的父亲已承受不起。
As a result, his frail father could no longer afford it when his mother became "rowdy."
很多时候，「我也只能躲进卫生间里哭，什么也做不了」。
Most of the time, "I can't do anything but hide in the bathroom and cry."
她甚至「幼稚」却认真地思考过，通过伪造自己和父亲都确诊新冠肺炎的诊断，引起相关部门的重视，将母亲「强制」入院。
She even "naively" seriously considered that by falsifying her own diagnosis and that of her father's diagnosis of New Crown Pneumonia, she drew the attention of the authorities and "forcibly" hospitalized the mother.
如此想法，源于柳樱看到的一则视频新闻：2 月 4 日，因一精神病患家人中 2 名确诊新冠肺炎，湖北十堰市警方破门「缠斗」，将该精神病患送诊。
Hubei Shiyan City police broke into a "fight" on February 4 after two family members of a mentally ill person were diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, sending the mental patient to hospital.
前述国务院联防联控机制综合组通知中，要求在新冠肺炎疫情期间，乡镇（街道）精神卫生综合管理小组要安排人员，加强居家严重精神障碍患者的定期访视。
In the aforementioned circular of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, it was requested that during the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, the township (street) integrated mental health management team be staffed to strengthen regular visits for persons with severe mental disorders.
对出现发热或者肺炎疑似症状的患者，综合管理小组应当及时协助将其送往就近的发热门诊就诊，如确诊新冠肺炎或者疑似感染入院治疗的，应当告知相关医疗机构患者既往精神疾病史和目前治疗情况。
For patients suffering from fever or suspected pneumonia, the integrated management team shall promptly assist in sending them to the nearest fever clinic for consultation. If a case of newly diagnosed pneumonia or suspected infection is admitted to hospital, the patient concerned shall be informed of the previous history of mental illness and the current treatment situation.
收治患新冠肺炎的严重精神障碍患者的医疗机构，如不具备精神科疾病诊疗能力，应当及时请精神科医师联络会诊。
Medical institutions treating patients with severe mental disorders with Newly Coronary Pneumonia who do not have the capacity to diagnose and treat mental illness should consult a psychiatrist immediately.
卫生健康行政部门可指定辖区内精神卫生医疗机构承担对应的联络会诊工作。
The health administration may designate mental health institutions within their jurisdiction to undertake the corresponding liaison visits.
但通知内所言的举措，柳樱从未「感受到一分」。
However, the notification said the initiative, the Sakura never "feel a point."
社区除联系核酸检测外，只建议家属密切观察，柳樱无奈道，而目前也几无精神专科医院对新报病患采取开放收治态度。
In addition to the community nucleic acid testing, only recommend close observation by family members, Sakura helplessness Road, and there are few psychiatric hospitals for newly reported patients to adopt an open attitude.
相关求助信息中，和柳樱一般焦急的不在少数。
In the related help information, and Willow Sakura general anxious many.
一位家属表示，其母亲 2 月 5 日病发后，至今无医院收治，自己也常被母亲殴打，甚至会上街攻击路人。
One family member said that his mother, who had been ill on 5 February, was still hospitalized and was often beaten by his mother, and even attacked passers-by on the street.
另多有家属反映，因精神病患难以沟通，不佩戴口罩「出走」的情况时有发生，于己于人，皆为风险。
There are also many family members reported that due to mental distress to communicate, do not wear masks "run away" from time to time, to their own, are a risk.
警方尽力寻回后，又只能迁怒于家属缺乏照看。
When the police tried to recover, they had to moan at the lack of family care.
武汉一区级精神病院医生对「偶尔治愈」表示，疫情期间停止接诊，是在诸如武汉精神卫生中心等大型医院都出现院内感染情况下的「自我保护」。
Wuhan district mental hospital doctors told the "occasional cure" that the cessation of treatment during the outbreak is "self-protection" in the case of nosocomial infections in major hospitals such as Wuhan Mental Health Center.
首先，精神专科医务人员本身对传染病学的知识就极为匮乏，甚至重症急救都存在操作瑕疵；该医生表示，加之精神病患无法如正常群体般，及时反馈病情并配合治疗，且精神病院均为集中管理，封闭看护，一旦新冠肺炎感染，院内医患全部「中枪」的可能，也绝非危言耸听。
In the first place, the lack of knowledge of infectious diseases among mental health professionals themselves, and even severe first aid, is extremely poor; the doctor says that, combined with the inability of mental patients to provide timely feedback and cooperation with treatment as a normal group, and the fact that psychiatric institutions are centrally managed, confined to nursing homes, it is far from alarmist.
当养老院等特殊机构，逐渐被重视起来后，希望政府对精神病患及关联医院的防控指导，进行讨论和重视，上述医生强调，仅凭院方和家属，终究无能为力。
When special institutions, such as nursing homes, become more and more important, we hope that the government will discuss and attach importance to the prevention and control of mental patients and associated hospitals.
防控政策的缺位2019 年 10 月，武汉市卫健委公布 2018 年度部门决算显示：管理严重精神障碍患者 3.72 万人，规范化管理率达 84.6% 外，传染病疫情报告及时率为 99.9%。
Lack of Prevention and Control Policy In October 2019, the Wuhan Health Care Commission released its 2018 annual departmental accounts, which show that 37,200 people suffer from severe mental disorders, with a standardized management rate of 84.6 percent, and a timely rate of 99.9 percent for infectious disease reports.
但在新冠肺炎的疫情防控中，此报告数据的现实价值似未能对应体现。
However, in the prevention and control of new crown pneumonia, the actual value of the reported data does not seem to reflect.
此外，曾为武汉市红十字会志愿者的李达告诉「偶尔治愈」，对特殊群体的防控缺位的关键原因之一，也在于舆论和情绪的误导。
In addition, Li Da, a former volunteer of Wuhan Red Cross Society, told The Occasional Healing that one of the key reasons for the lack of prevention and control of specific groups is misinformation about public opinion and mood.
2 月初，省市红会调拨物资和款项至武汉市优抚医院时，即广被指责和批判。
In early February, the provincial and municipal Red Cross Society transferred materials and funds to the Wuhan Youcao Hospital, which was widely criticized.
原因在于武汉市优抚医院（二级综合医院）前身为武汉市民政局精神病医院。
The reason lies in Wuhan Youcao Hospital (level II general hospital) formerly known as Wuhan Civil Affairs Bureau Psychiatric Hospital.
李达说道，彼时，由武汉市精神卫生中心引发的精神病患感染，尚为引发任何关注。
At that time, Li said, the mental illness caused by Wuhan Mental Health Center, still cause any concern.
加之红会深陷质疑，对精神专科医院或精神科见长医院的物资调配，极易引发众怒。
In addition, the Red Cross will be deeply questioned, psychiatric hospitals or psychiatric hospital material deployment, easy to cause public anger.
但据李达回忆，武汉市优抚医院医生曾对其表示，早于 2020 年 1 月，该院即发现住院精神病患出现集中发热情况并据此确信新冠肺炎的人传人特征。
But as early as January 2020, doctors at Wuhan Youcao Hospital told Li that the hospital had detected a concentrated fever among hospitalized mental patients and was confident of human-to-human transmission of the new crown pneumonia.
八点建闻的相关报道中，亦对李达所言进行证实。
Eight points of news related to the report, but also confirmed the remarks of Li Da.
但针对武汉市优抚医院的汇报，上级疾控部门并未在意。
But for Wuhan Youcao Hospital report, the higher level CDC departments did not care.
直至前述 2 月 18 日，国务院联防联控机制综合组通知发布后，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部于 2 月 20 日发布通知，方涉及精神病患等特殊困难群体的指导意见。
Until the aforementioned February 18, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council issued the notice, Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command issued a notice on February 20 to provide guidance to the mentally ill and other special hardship groups.
防控指挥部通知表示，将特殊场所所需防控物资统筹纳入当地防控指挥部物资保障体系，重点保障一线护理人员所需的口罩、手套、防护服等防护装备。
The CPPCC has announced that it will integrate the materials needed for prevention and control at special sites into the local material support system for the local command and control, with a particular focus on ensuring that frontline care personnel need face masks, gloves, protective clothing and other protective equipment.
同时，加快完善特殊场所内病人就医绿色通道，有发热或疑似病人，要及时通知卫生疾控部门上门检测或社区送诊检测，确诊的由定点医院无条件收治。
At the same time, to speed up the improvement of patients in special places to see the Green Channel, there is fever or suspected patients, to promptly notify the health and disease control departments door-to-door testing or community consultation testing, confirmed by the unconditional admission to designated hospitals.
此外，社区（村组）要加强居家严重精神障碍患者的定期访视，对出现发热或者疑似的，及时协助送医就诊。
In addition, the community (village group) should strengthen the home serious mental disorder patient's regular visit, to the emergence of fever or suspicion, promptly assists in the medical consultation.
密切关注居家的严重精神障碍患者服药情况，可采取邮寄、代取药、送药上门等方式，帮助患者持续药物治疗。
Pay close attention to the home patients with serious mental disorders medication, can take the mail, drug delivery door-to-door, and other means to help patients continue drug treatment.
但就柳樱及相关求助者的反馈，及前述武钢二院等情况可知，相比于国务院联防联控机制综合组通知，相对更为具体的武汉防控指挥部通知，同样到位存疑。
However, the feedback from Willow Sakura and its related clients, and the above-mentioned situation of WISCO, shows that compared with the notice of the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, the more specific Wuhan Command of Control and Prevention is also in place.
难以落实到位的相关通知图源：湖北省人民政府网站截图2 月 23 日，湖北省委书记应勇主持召开省委常委会会议，要求加强监狱、民营医疗机构、养老院等特殊群体及重点部位的防控。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Hubei Provincial People's Government Website: Feb. 23, 2007 The secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, Ying Yong, held a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Provincial Committee, demanding that the prevention and control of prisons, private medical institutions, nursing homes and other special groups and key areas be strengthened.
虽专科精神病院及精神病患群体未被明确强调，柳樱则期盼高层对特殊群体的直接「关照」，将继续推动精神病患问题的切实改观。
Although specialist mental hospitals and mental patients groups are not clearly emphasized, Liu said she expects high-level direct "care" for special groups to continue to promote real change in the mentally ill.
补救举措的模糊目前，武汉市精神卫生中心已于金银潭医院开设专项病区，主要诊治该院确诊的新冠肺炎医患。
At present, the Wuhan Mental Health Center has opened a special area in the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital to treat patients diagnosed with Newcastle Pneumonia.
此外，在武汉精神卫生中心内，则设置隔离病区两处，以应对疑似病例。
In addition, Wuhan Mental Health Center, the establishment of two quarantine areas to deal with suspected cases.
2 月 9 日，武汉市精神卫生中心曾回应媒体表示，具体情况及跟进数据，将在其官网微信「推出」。
On February 9, the Wuhan Mental Health Center responded to media reports that specific information and follow-up data would be "rolled out" on its website.
但至今尚无进一步公示。
No further announcements have been made.
「偶尔治愈」了解到，武汉市精神卫生中心正在国家卫健委援武汉感控专家等指导下，进行防控改造。
"Occasionally cured" understand that Wuhan City Mental Health Center is the national health care expert such as Wuhan sensuous control under the guidance of prevention and control reform.
其二七院区的住院楼，将作为新冠肺炎的收治隔离病区，进行新冠肺炎并精神病患救治。
The in-patient building of its 27-yard block will serve as a quarantine area for new crown pneumonia, with treatment for mental patients.
作为武汉市精神疾病诊疗主力，武汉市精神卫生中心的再度接诊开放，极为关键。
As the main diagnosis and treatment of mental illness in Wuhan City, Wuhan Mental Health Center re-admission, is crucial.
但其院区改造具体成型时间及规划接诊量，目前亦无明确信息。
However, there is no clear information on the time of transformation and the number of visits planned.
另在武汉外的湖北县市，相关举措正在同步进行。
Besides, in Hubei county outside Wuhan, relevant measures are being carried out simultaneously.
网传胡场精神病院患者「全部感染」后，仙桃市卫健委介入表示，对 130 名在院病人及 49 名医务人员进行核酸检测及相关诊查，确诊新冠肺炎患者 18 例，已安排进入当地定点医院治疗。
After "total infection" of patients in the hospital, Xian Dao health committee intervened, 130 patients and 49 medical staff were diagnosed with nucleic acid test and related examination, 18 cases of new crown pneumonia patients have been arranged to enter the local designated hospital for treatment.
在孝感市，其社会福利和医疗康复中心，则派驻相关专业医务人员，与当地新冠肺炎接诊医院合作，对疑似和确诊新冠肺炎的精神病患进行协助治疗。
In Xiaogan City, its Social Welfare and Medical Rehabilitation Center has assigned relevant medical professionals to work with the local New Crown Pneumonia Referral Hospital to assist in the treatment of mental patients suspected and diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia.
但工作开展并不容易。
But the job isn't easy.
据楚天都市报对新冠肺炎病患「出逃」消息的辟谣报道，事件起因即为一名疑似新冠肺炎的精神病患，击穿墙壁夹板后，离开病区。
The Chu Tian Metropolis Daily denied rumors that a mental patient suspected to be suffering from pneumonia had broken through a splint and left the area.
此外，就尚未确无新冠肺炎症状，但急需入院治疗的精神病患，武汉外的湖北县市专科病院，同样收治「谨慎」。
In addition, the hospital in Hubei County, outside Wuhan, was also treated "cautiously" for mental patients who did not yet have symptoms of pneumonia but were in urgent need of hospitalization.
针对疫情中精神病患的相关评论图源：新浪微博截图孝感所辖镇村的一名精神病患家属对「偶尔治愈」表示，相关机构竟答复，除非发生精神病患实际且严重的「肇事肇祸」情形，方有希望被专业精神病院接收。
A family member of a mental patient in the town under Sina Weibo's filial piety said, "Occasionally cured," the agency replied that unless there was an actual and serious "cause-and-effect" situation in a mental patient, there was hope of admission to a professional psychiatric hospital.
综上，目前湖北所涉的精神病患防控的最新数据及具体救治方案，依旧模糊不清。
To sum up, the latest data of prevention and treatment of mental patients involved in Hubei Province is still unclear.
如此情形下，柳樱却在社交平台看见太多的争议，直接指向精神病患是否应「让位」，以「节约」医疗资源，保护医务人员等。
In such cases, Sakura has seen too much controversy on social platforms, pointing directly to whether mental patients should "give way" to "save" medical resources and protect medical staff.
一精神科医生则留评感慨道：疫情之下，生命不该如此被「衡量」。
One psychiatrist remarked that life should not be so "measured" by the epidemic.
（柳樱、吴今、李达为化名 ）（主笔更多好文，可点击「阅读原文」）撰文：左异封面图来源：站酷海洛—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式偶尔治愈 | 常常帮助 | 总是安慰。
Our new book, "Between Life and Death," publishes two-dimensional code purchases that recognize the occasional cure to disease, old age, and death - an occasional cure for illness, aging, and death; and often helps and comforts.
左异。
On the left.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
防控「死角」中的精神病患。
Prevention and control of mental patients in the "dead end."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "防控「死角」中的精神病患";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "院内感染抑或院外风险，一旦触发，均为难抑悲剧";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; once triggered.
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
