肺炎疫情下的武汉高考生：节前紧急停课 节后教师排班在线授课 鼓励自主学习 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Wuhan high-test students under the pneumonia epidemic: emergency pre-holiday teacher scheduling online teaching to encourage autonomous learning - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="万敏";。
var auther = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
肺炎疫情下的武汉高考生：节前紧急停课 节后教师排班在线授课 鼓励自主学习。
Wuhan high-achievers in pneumonia: emergency pre-holiday teacher scheduling after the holidays online teachers to encourage self-learning.
万敏2020-01-31 12:49。
Min 2020-01-31 12: 49.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 万敏 准备好教案，调试好QQ，等待开课——林老师从来没想到，会以这样的方式，带领学生向着高考冲刺。
The network of economic observers Wan Min ready to teach the case, debugging good QQ, waiting for a class - Miss Lin never thought, will lead students to the college entrance exam in this way.
。
.
林老师是湖北省武汉市一所重点中学的高三年级任课老师、班主任。
Mr. Lin is a senior high school teacher and head teacher of a key middle school in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
从1月30日（农历正月初六）开始，她和其他老师已开始按照学校的统一安排，通过在师生QQ群内的语音电话功能，为高三考生排班授课。
Since January 30, the sixth day of the first month of the lunar calendar, she and other teachers have begun to follow the unified arrangement of the school, through the teachers and students QQ group within the voice telephone function, senior three candidates scheduled classes.
目前，该校高三年级共有16个班级，学生680人。
There are currently 16 classes for 680 students in the third year of high school.
。
.
情势急转直下的非冠肺炎疫情，把武汉所有的中学打了个措手不及。
The situation suddenly changed the situation of non-crown pneumonia, Wuhan all the secondary schools were caught unawares.
。
.
距离高考仅130余天的紧急停课。
The college entrance examination is only 130 days away from the emergency suspension.
林老师所在的学校，原计划给高三年级的放假安排是一直上课到1月22日（农历腊月二十八），到农历初六再返校补课。
Mr. Lin's school, which had been planned for the third year of high school holidays until January 22 (Lunar New Year 28), to return to school on the sixth day of the Lunar New Year remedial classes.
“差不多市内所有的高中都是这样安排的。
"Almost all high schools in the city are organized in this way.
”她对记者说，那天早上通过各种途径，林老师已经获知了关于肺炎疫情的最新消息，“我记得很清楚，20日上午我们还召开了全校教职工大会，包括我在内，只有零星的几个人戴着口罩，台上坐着领导都没戴，感觉还挺尴尬。
"I remember very clearly that on the morning of the 20th we held a general meeting of the faculty and staff of the school. Only a few people, including me, were wearing masks, and it was embarrassing not to have a leader on the stage.
”。
"
实际上，在1月20日凌晨，北京、广东、武汉接连发布新型冠状病毒肺炎情况。
In fact, in the early hours of January 20, Beijing, Guangdong, Wuhan released a series of new coronavirus pneumonia.
其中，武汉18日、19日新确诊病例136例，广东深圳市确诊1例，北京市大兴区确诊2例患者。
Among them, Wuhan 18, 19 new confirmed cases 136, Guangdong Shenzhen confirmed 1 case, Beijing Daxing District confirmed 2 patients.
这也是武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情出现以来，国内首次在武汉以外的地区确诊这一疾病。
This is Wuhan new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak since the emergence of the first time in the country outside Wuhan confirmed the disease.
。
.
20日中午，林老师在午休时间通过“京东到家”向附近的药店下订单购买口罩，药店迟迟没有接单，很晚才回电告诉她，因为很多人买口罩，她预定的款式已经售完，是否接受调换其他款，林老师接受了这个建议，因对疫情的严重性估量不足，她并未购买太多。
At noon on the 20th, Ms. Lin ordered masks from a nearby drugstore during lunch break. The drugstore was late to call her back to tell her that because many people had bought masks, she had already sold out of the models she had ordered, and whether she would accept a replacement.
。
.
20日晚上，正在准备学生第二节晚自习的林老师忽然收到了学校转达武汉市教委的紧急停课通知，当天原本高三年级有持续到晚上8点的晚自习，7点左右收到通知散学，“当时还没有太多讨论疫情，有的老师一直在群里布置说明寒假作业”。
On the evening of the 20th, Ms. Lin, who was preparing for her second day of study, suddenly received an urgent suspension notice from the Wuhan Education Commission, which had lasted from grade three to 8pm. He received a notice at around 7: 00 pm.
同时，学校也取消了原计划21日和22日召开的家长会和质量分析会。
At the same time, the school also cancelled the planned 21 and 22 February meeting of parents and quality analysis.
她说，“因为刚组织过一次全市重点中学联考，需要就考试成绩给家长做个分析说明，现在想想十分后怕，幸亏都取消了。
"Because just organized a city-wide key secondary school exam, need to do an analysis of the examination results to parents, now think very scared, fortunately cancelled.
”。
"
林老师后来才知道，“我们学校旁边的医院，20日当天就有确诊的。
Mr. Lin later learned that "our school next to the hospital, the same day there was a diagnosis.
”。
"
21日，林老师返回学校取东西，发现一路上戴口罩的人已明显增多。
On May 21, Mr. Lin returned to school to pick up some things and found that the number of people wearing masks along the way had increased significantly.
22日，《长江日报》官微发布了湖北省卫健委、湖北省教育厅的《致全省学生及家长的一封信》，提示学生和家长采取预防保护措施，减少寒假外出。
A letter to students and parents from Hubei Provincial Health Commission and Hubei Provincial Education Bureau was released on February 22, urging students and parents to take preventive measures to reduce winter vacation travel.
。
.
23日凌晨2点，武汉宣布封城。
23, 2 a.m., Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
林老师记得很清楚，这一天，距离2020年6月初的全国高考开始仅有135天了。
As Mr Lin well remembers, it was only 135 days before the start of the National College Entrance Examination in early June 2020.
白天里，因家人还需外出工作，林老师跑了五家药店购买口罩和酒精，但都已被抢购一空，最后外地的同学通过顺丰给她邮寄了50个口罩。
During the day, Ms. Lin went to five pharmacies to buy masks and alcohol because her family still had to work, but they were sold out and 50 masks were mailed to her by her classmates through Shunfeng.
当天，湖北省教育厅确定，今年春季湖北省中小学开学确定延期，具体何时开学有待后续公布。
On the same day, Hubei Education Bureau confirmed that this spring in Hubei Province, the opening of primary and secondary schools was postponed, specific time to be announced.
。
.
湖北省是继江苏、河南、山东、河北之后，全国高考压力最大的省份之一，虽然全省高校林立，但湖北的高考考卷是全国卷一，属于比较难的卷型，各家高校在湖北的招生分数线普遍较高，很多武汉市内的学生，从小学就开始了各种课外补习、竞赛，到了高中，更多学校对教师采取绩效与分数挂钩的管理方式，学生的学习状态更是高压高强度，课程和自习时间排到最满，老师和学生都是以“打仗”的心态面对高考，而仿佛忽如其来的疫情成为今年高考的最大不确定因素。
After Jiangsu, Henan, Shandong and Hebei, Hubei Province is one of the most stressed provinces in the country. Although there are many colleges and universities in the whole province, the college entrance examination paper in Hubei is a difficult one.
。
.
2019年全省共有38.4万人报名参加高考，比去年的37.4万人增加约1万人，这是自2017年以来的“三连增”。
In 2019, 384,000 people across the province signed up for the national college entrance examination, an increase of about 10,000 from 374,000 last year, a "three-way increase" since 2017.
。
.
与河南、山东等地的中学采取集中住宿的“高考工厂”不同，如林老师所在的武汉市内的中学，大部分都不具备住宿条件，学生多为走读，在疫情持续的状况下，学生只能居家自学，尽管学校采取了线上授课的安排，但学生的专注力和适应新的教学方式情况，还有待观察。
Unlike the centralized "college entrance" factories in Henan and Shandong, where most of the secondary schools in Wuhan, where Mr. Lin is based, are not equipped to accommodate students, most of them are day-to-day students.
。
.
“学生的心态也很矛盾，一方面想多放几天假，但另一方面又很担心高考。
"The students' mentality is also very contradictory, on the one hand want to take more days off, but on the other hand worried about the college entrance exam.
”林老师说，学校的线上教学，也是为了求一个“心安”。
Mr Lin said the school's online teaching was also aimed at a "peace of mind."
。
.
湖北省教育厅于1月29日和1月30日分别发布了全省中小学校在疫情防控期间开展网络教学的指导意见和做好疫情防控期间高校教学工作的通知。
On January 29 and January 30, the Education Bureau of Hubei Province respectively issued guidance to primary and middle schools on how to carry out online teaching during epidemic prevention and control and a notice on how to do a good job of teaching in colleges and universities during epidemic prevention and control.
其中提出，“中小学校可充分发挥网络平台、数字电视、移动终端等特点和优势，结合地区和学段特点，采取在线直播、网络点播教学、学生自主学习、电视视频学习、集中辅导答疑等多种形式开展网络教学。
"Schools can make full use of the network platform, digital TV, mobile terminal and other characteristics and advantages, combined with the characteristics of regions and school segments, online broadcast, on-demand teaching, student self-study, TV video learning, centralized tutoring and problem-solving," it said.
”。
"
教师花样线上授课 鼓励自主学习。
Teacher training online encourages self-directed learning.
一位居住在武汉的初三年级学生家长告诉记者，已经收到了学校转发的教委关于线上补课的通知：2月1日开始，组织高中毕业年级开展在线教学，2月5日开始，组织初中毕业年级开展在线教学，2月10日开始，组织其他年级开展在线教学。
A parent of a junior high school student living in Wuhan told reporters that he had received a notice from the school about online remedial classes: starting on February 1, organizing online teaching for senior high school graduates, starting on February 5, organizing online teaching for junior middle school graduates, and starting on February 10, organizing online teaching for other grades.
。
.
这位家长除了担忧疫情的发展，对即将到来的中考也感到“焦灼”，“我们本来请了物理、化学、生物三门课的一对一上门家教，孩子成绩提升很明显，现在这样的补课短期内是不可能了，还是只能上网课，网课的效果没有这种面对面教学的效果好，但也只能聊胜于无了。
"We've had one-on-one home tutoring in physics, chemistry and biology. We've had one-on-one classes in physics, chemistry and biology, and it's not possible in the short term.
”。
"
目前，这位家长听到校方传达的信息是，今年的中考和高考大概率都不会因为疫情而推迟。
So far, the parent has heard the school's message that neither this year's test nor the college entrance examination will be delayed by the epidemic.
。
.
林老师说，目前她班级内的学生目前情绪普遍比较稳定，在武汉封城前后的那几天，有一名父母都是医生的学生，因为担心父母的安全，情绪十分紧张，但是“现在都比较平静了。
In the days before and after the city was closed in Wuhan, a student whose parents were both doctors was nervous about the safety of her parents, but said, "It's all calmer now.
”。
"
在1月30日开始的这次网络授课中，因为有不少年纪较大的老师第一次接触“直播”，操作不太顺利，还意外地在学生面前暴露了生活中可爱的一面，林老师说，有的学校老师通过“斗鱼”平台直播，被学生截图做成了“表情包”，有的老师在语音直播中不会操作“闭麦”，和家人的日常对话被学生听到，师生之间的距离反而得以拉近，还有老师通过B站做直播，竟然收到了学生的“投币”，学校已经要求绝对不能接受各种“投币”、“打赏”，后续都会退还给学生。
In the online lecture, which started on Jan. 30, many older teachers were exposed to the live broadcast for the first time, and accidentally exposed the lovely side of their lives to the students. Some teachers were shown live on a "fish fighting" platform.
。
.
据悉，2月1日，武汉市教委会组织老师线上培训其推荐的网络授课平台“空中课堂”的操作，但是对有的已经回到外地家中被隔离起来的老师来说，如果家中没有笔记本电脑或台式机，使用这个平台时是不太友好的。
On Feb. 1, the Wuhan Education Commission organised an online training session for teachers on its recommended web-based instructional platform, "Classrooms in the Air," but for teachers who have returned to their isolated homes, it is less friendly to use laptops or desktops if they don't have one.
。
.
考虑到目前学生们普遍使用QQ，林老师表示，如学校没有特别要求，后续老师们可能还是会用QQ群的电话会议和分享屏幕功能授课。
Given that QQ is now widely used by students, Mr Lin said follow-up teachers might still use QQ group teleconferencing and screen-sharing if the school did not ask.
。
.
历年的“二月调考”，是高考前较为重要的一次考试，一般会安排在二月中旬，这次考试目前来看极有可能会推迟，师生们普遍也希望，疫情能在2月下旬得到有效控制，恢复正常上课，迎战高考。
The exam, which is scheduled for mid-February, is likely to be postponed at the moment. Teachers and students generally hope that the outbreak will be brought under effective control in late February and resume normal classes for the college entrance examination.
。
.
不管是通过何种方式授课，老师们督促学生的向学之心都是一样的。
No matter how they teach, the teachers urge their students to learn the same way.
。
.
在疫情阴影重压下的武汉的教师们，积极采取各种方式鼓励学生的学习信心和热情。
Wuhan teachers in the shadow of the epidemic under the pressure of actively take a variety of ways to encourage students to learn confidence and enthusiasm.
在一封流传于武汉市各中学的教师致考生信中，一位令人尊敬的老师写到，“延迟开学，各类辅导暂停。
In a letter addressed to candidates by teachers from Wuhan high schools, a respected teacher wrote, "School starts late and various kinds of counseling are suspended.
在生命面前，试卷、分数、名次显得轻如鸿毛。
In the face of life, test papers, scores, ranking appears as light as feather.
学生宅在家里，家长急在心里。
The students are at home, parents are anxious in mind.
‘教是为了不教’。
Teach is to teach not to teach.
在不教、不管的情况下，学生是否愿学、会学、高效地学，成为检验一所学校、一个教师、一个家庭教育水平的天然试金石。
Whether or not students are willing to learn, learn, and learn efficiently without being taught is a natural litmus test of a school, a teacher, a level of family education.
受了12年的教育，却不会主动学习，无疑是教育的失败。
After 12 years of education, but not active learning, is undoubtedly a failure of education.
不管怎么自诩‘名校’‘负责’‘学霸’‘天才’都难掩其羞。
No matter how self-styled 'elite school' is responsible ',' genius' is hard to hide its shame.
不能自主学习，即使考上清北，其发展情况也令人堪忧。
Can not learn independently, even if admitted to the north of the Qing Dynasty, its development is worrying.
”。
"
在提出数条在家自主学习的具体建议后，在信的末尾，这位老师说到，“学会主动学习，你战胜的不仅是病毒，更是一个平庸的自己！”。
At the end of the letter, after putting forward several concrete suggestions for autonomous learning at home, the teacher said, "Learn to take the initiative to learn, you will defeat not only the virus, but also a mediocre self!"
武汉市的肺炎疫情，将对今年的春季开学、高考情况造成何种具体影响仍是一个未知数，但正如那些奋战在医疗、交通物流等疫情一线的人们一样，各行各业的人们依然在为了一个光明的未来，守土有责，奋力前行。
The exact impact of the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan on the start of the spring school year and the college entrance examination is still unknown, but people from all walks of life, like those in the frontlines of medical treatment, transportation and logistics, are still struggling for a bright future.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
万敏经济观察报记者。
Wan Min Economic Observer reporter.
金融市场研究院。
Financial Market Research Institute.
关注包括但不限于金融、互联网、财富管理、理财相关领域。
Attention includes, but is not limited to, finance, the Internet, wealth management, and finance-related areas.
探索金融新闻新的写作方式。
Explore new ways of writing financial news.
。
.
新闻线索可联系邮箱：wanmin@eeo.com.cn。
News leads can be reached at: wanmin @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、农村防控新型肺炎工作被高度重视    。
1. The prevention and control of new pneumonia in rural areas is highly valued.
2、肺炎疫情下的武汉高考生：节前紧急   。
2, pneumonia under the Wuhan high examinee: Pre-festival emergency.
3、湖北30日新增新冠肺炎病例1220例    。
3, Hubei 30 new cases of new crown pneumonia 1220 cases.
4、世卫组织总干事关于《国际卫生条例   。
Report of the Director-General of WHO on the International Health Regulations.
5、疫情中受创行业里的他们：复工无期   。
5. They in the affected industries: back to work for a lifetime.
6、详解新冠肺炎被定为国际危机事件    。
New Crown Pneumonia has been defined as an international crisis.
7、经观社论|共克时艰，我们能够做些   。
7. We can do something about difficult times with AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45;
8、远程办公、视频社交、防护用品市场   。
8. Telecommuting, video social networking and protective equipment markets.
9、疾控中心回应发表论文：确诊病例在   。
CDC Responds to Publish Paper: Confirmed Cases in China.
10、图景嘉园31日恢复正常出入 需登记   。
Registration is required for the resumption of normal access on the 31st.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
