疫情预警升至最高，韩国将检测“新天地”教会全部成员。
Early warning of the outbreak rose to its highest level, and South Korea will test all members of the New World Church.
蔡婷贻 王晓枫。
CHOI Ying-yee Wang.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
韩国已经过了政府防疫部门能独立控制疫情的阶段，现在已经进入整个社会都要配合防疫的关键时期。
The Republic of Korea has passed the stage when the government epidemic prevention department can independently control the epidemic and has now entered a critical period when the whole society should cooperate with the epidemic prevention.
根据相关部门的推演，3月3日之前将是韩国是否能有效控制疫情的时间窗口2月23日，在韩国大邱，工作人员在一家市场内进行消毒工作。
South Korean workers disinfect a market in Daegu, South Korea, before March 3, a window on whether South Korea will be able to effectively control the outbreak, according to the department's calculations.
图/法新文 |《财经》记者 蔡婷贻 王晓枫 编辑 | 郝洲神秘教会、封闭式老年住所、军队、不愿配合防疫的疑似案例、防疫指挥官员是隐形神秘教会信徒……防疫教科书式的挑战自2月20日起出现在韩国，导致确诊案例在短短数日内呈翻倍式增长，韩国瞬间成为中国以外新型冠状病毒感染最严重的疫区，原本以围堵为主的防疫政策被迫转为寻求减灾。
CHOI Ting Ying Wang Xiaofeng, a Caijing journalist, has been forced to turn to disaster reduction after a mysterious church in Hao Zhou, closed homes for the elderly, the army, suspected cases of unwillingness to cooperate with epidemic prevention, and a doubling of confirmed cases in just a few days.
韩国疫情自2月21日开始升温，确诊案例当日增加100例，接着22日出现229例、23日169例、24日新增231例、25日新增144例。
The number of confirmed cases increased by 100 on February 21, followed by 229 cases on February 22, 169 cases on 23 days, 231 cases on 24 days and 144 cases on 25 days.
根据韩国中央灾难安全对策本部通报，截至26日早9点，韩国又新增169例确诊病例，累计1146例，全国死亡病例达11例，其中疫情严重的大邱市和庆尚北道清道郡的确诊案例至26日早上为944例，占韩国全国确诊感染总数的82.3%。
As of 9: 00 a.m. on June 26, 169 new cases had been confirmed, bringing the total number of deaths nationwide to 11, including 944 confirmed cases in Daegu city and Qingdao county in Gyeongshan Province, accounting for 82.3 percent of the total number of confirmed cases nationwide.
随着案例快速增加，韩国防疫部门已来不及调查和阻隔每个案例的感染源，国会也因为在野党议员曾接触过确诊患者紧急宣布休会。
With the number of cases rapidly increasing, the Korean epidemic prevention authorities have not had time to investigate and block the source of infection in each case, and the National Assembly has abruptly adjourned due to contacts made by opposition MPs with confirmed patients.
韩国政府23日召开紧急会议，文在寅总统宣布国家进入紧急状态，将传染病预警级别由此前的“警戒”调高到最高级“严重”。
The South Korean government called an emergency meeting yesterday, and President Wen Jiabao declared a state of emergency, raising the alert level of infectious diseases from the previous "alert" to the highest level.
“请避免过渡恐慌，同时相信政府采取的措施。
"Please avoid excessive panic and believe in the measures taken by the government.
”文在寅表示，接下来几天将是防疫关键期。
Wen said the next few days would be a critical period for immunization.
负责灾难应对的国务总理丁世均25日6点进驻大邱，预计在大邱常驻至29日，视情况决定是否延长坐镇指挥。
Ding Shi-jun, the premier in charge of disaster response, arrived in Taegu at 6: 00 pm and is expected to stay in Daegu until 29, depending on the circumstances.
这是韩国自2009年H1N1流感后，再次发布最高级传染病预警，政府依法定标准能随时发布学校停课、禁止集体活动等紧急命令。
This is the South Korean H1N1 influenza since 2009, again issued the highest-level infectious disease alert, the government in accordance with legal standards can be issued at any time school suspension, ban collective activities and other emergency orders.
鉴于疫情升温迅速，韩国政府已经宣布全国幼儿园、中小学等各级学校新学年自3月2日延后至3月9日。
In view of the rapid rise in the epidemic, the Korean Government has announced the postponement of the new school year at all levels -- kindergarten, primary and secondary -- from 2 March to 9 March.
根据相关部门的推演，2月23日至3月3日将是韩国是否能有效控制疫情的时间窗口。
Feb. 23 to March 3 will be a window into whether South Korea can effectively control the epidemic, according to a calculation by the relevant authorities.
韩国疫情快速升温主要源于两起群聚感染，尤其是第四大城市大邱“新天地”教会，至24日为止与教会有关的病例已达458例；另一个感染源为庆尚北道清道郡大南医院，至今感染案例达112例。
The fast-rising epidemic in South Korea has two major causes, particularly in the Church of New Horizon, the fourth-largest city, with 458 church-related cases as of June 24, and the Chhnang Hospital in Qingdao, Gyeongshan Province, with 112 cases of infection so far.
由于庆尚北道是“新天地”教会创办人李万熙的家乡，且数周前教会成员曾参加在该医院举办的创办人兄长丧礼，韩国保健福祉部（卫生部）下属的疾病预防控制中心推断大南医院的感染源同样来自教会。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention under the Ministry of Health and Welfare concluded that the source of infection at the Greater South Hospital was also from the Church, as Gyeongshan North Province was the home of Lee Wanxi, founder of Xintiandi Church, and where church members attended the founder's funeral several weeks ago.
由于大南医院感染楼层主要提供老年人居住，且病毒传播到该院封闭式管理的精神科住院楼，病毒蔓延快速，该住院楼的102名病人中99名确诊，同时死亡病例也集中在医院的感染案例，到2月25日为止已经出现至少5例。
Since the infected floor of the Greater South Hospital is mainly occupied by the elderly and the virus spreads to its closed-managed psychiatric inpatient building, the virus has spread rapidly, with 99 of the 102 patients in the hospital diagnosed, while deaths are concentrated in hospital infections, with at least five cases reported as of 25 February.
韩国翰林医学院流行病专家金东炫指出，韩国已经过了政府防疫部门能独立控制疫情的阶段，现在已经进入整个社会都要配合防疫的关键时期。
Kim Dong-hyun, an epidemiologist at Korea's Hanlin School of Medicine, said South Korea had passed the stage when the government anti-epidemic department was able to control the epidemic independently and was now entering a critical period when the whole society should cooperate with the epidemic prevention.
“第31例”和争议教会“第31例确诊案例为一名1959年出生的女性。
"Thirty-one cases" and the controversial church "The thirty-first confirmed case is a woman born in 1959.
”2月18日韩国疾病预防控制中心的疫情公告一如往常地更新确诊案例数量，第一时间在病人接触人数上留下的记录是“仍在调查中。
The February 18 announcement from the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated the number of confirmed cases as usual, leaving a record of "ongoing investigations" on the number of patients contacted.
”隔日，前总统朴正熙故乡、第四大城市大邱和庆尚北道出现13例新增案例，调查显示源头都来自第31例，让韩国疾控机构没想到的是，正是这个案例让接下来的确诊数开始成倍增长。
The next day, 13 new cases emerged in Park Chung-hee's hometown, Taegu, the fourth largest city, and Gyeongshan North Province, all from the 31st case, which, to the surprise of South Korea's CDC, started multiplying the number of subsequent diagnoses.
根据调查，第31例病人因为车祸自2月7日开始往来地方诊所接受治疗，她自2月10日开始发烧，17日接受检测，18日确诊阳性。
According to the investigation, the thirty-first patient had been admitted to the local clinic since the accident on 7 February, she had a fever since 10 February, was tested on 17 February and was confirmed to be positive on 18 February.
韩国媒体指出，诊所医生曾经建议她接受筛检，但是遭到拒绝。
South Korean media said doctors at the clinic had advised her to be screened, but were rejected.
没想到她会成为“超级传播者”，她在出现症状后仍4次参加教会礼拜活动，并与超过1160人发生了接触。
Unexpectedly, she became a "super-communicator," attending church services four times after her symptoms began and having contact with more than 1160 people.
韩国防疫系统自此面临严峻挑战。
The Korean epidemic prevention system has since faced serious challenges.
调查人员后来发现，在确诊以前，“第31例”曾参加过大邱争议教会“新天地”的千人聚会，并多次前往公共场所，除了第33例是她就诊医院的医疗人员，其他后来确诊的感染案例几乎都和教会相关。
Investigators later found that the "thirty-first case" had attended a gathering of 1,000 people at the Taegu controversy church in Xintiandi and went to public places several times, except for the 33rd case, where she attended a hospital, where almost all the other confirmed infections were related to the church.
2月25日新公布的第9例死亡案例，也被认为曾接触过教会人员。
The ninth new death, announced on 25 February, is also believed to have involved church personnel.
根据调查，遭到感染的“新天地”教会信徒，主要在2月7日-10日以及14日-18日间出现症状，韩国疾病预防控制中心推断教会的礼拜活动可能是病毒的主要传播场合。
According to the survey, the infected believers in Xintiandi Church showed symptoms mainly between February 7-10 and 14-18, and the Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention concluded that church services could be the main places of transmission of the virus.
该教会信徒在韩国至少有21万之众,有超过1000个据点，这些教徒倾向于隐瞒参加教会活动，也向家人隐瞒秘密入教。
With a population of at least 210,000 and more than 1,000 strongholds in South Korea, the congregation tends to conceal its activities from the church and from its family members.
“新天地”教会在初期不愿配合防疫，提交的信徒名单和联系方式并不完整，有媒体指出教会要求信徒在接到防疫电话时否认参与活动误导防疫人员。
The Church was initially reluctant to cooperate with immunization, submitting incomplete lists of believers and contact details, with media reports pointing out that the church had asked believers to deny involvement in misleading vaccination personnel when called for vaccination.
防疫人员随后表示，若教会不配合将采取法律手段。
The vaccination official later said the church would take legal action if it did not cooperate.
文在寅在2月23日的紧急会议之后特别指出，政府将关闭新天地在全国各地的教会，对教徒进行全面调查。
Wen said after an emergency meeting on Feb. 23 that the government would close its churches around the country and conduct a thorough investigation of the faithful.
他25日亲自到大邱视察并主持防疫会议，他指出疫情控制的关键在速度和时间，希望疫情拐点很快到来。
He went to Daegu on the 25th to inspect and preside over the vaccination conference, he pointed out that the key to the epidemic control in speed and time, hope that the inflection point of the epidemic will soon come.
在此之前，韩国政府已宣布大邱和庆尚北道清道郡为“传染病特别管理地区”。
Prior to this, the South Korean government has declared Daegu and Qingdao County, Gyeongshan North Province, as "special management areas for infectious diseases."
韩国中央灾难安全对策本部于2月25日表示，政府将对“新天地”教会全部成员进行新冠病毒检测，并随时公开检测结果。
The government will test all members of Xintiandi Church for the new crown virus and make the test results public, the central disaster security headquarters said on Feb. 25.
“新天地”教会引发的疫情还包括军队，一名在济州岛的军人2月20日放假前往大邱和女友见面后也遭到感染，韩国陆、海、空三军感染人数达11人，目前已隔离至少7700人，考虑到疫情，韩美正考虑缩小原定于3月9日进行的联合军演规模。
A soldier on Jeju Island who traveled to Taegu on February 20 to meet his girlfriend was also infected. The army, navy and air force, which has 11 people infected, has quarantined at least 7,700 people. South Korea and the United States are considering scaling down a joint military exercise scheduled for March 9.
韩国国防部25日因一名摄影记者发现疑似症状，宣布暂时关闭简报室。
South Korea's Defense Ministry announced the temporary closure of the briefing room 25 because a photographer found suspected symptoms.
普通人的生活骤变大邱市政府除了宣布学校延后一周开学，同时也要求市内1324所幼儿园休园，252个老年医疗设施管制外部人员进出。
The city government, in addition to announcing a one-week delay in opening schools, also called for 1,324 kindergartens in the city to be closed and 252 geriatric facilities to control access.
在取消了大邱市举办的主要活动之外，不少政府部门也已改为在家办公。
In addition to the cancellation of major events in Daegu city, a number of government departments have been converted to home-based work.
“我们觉得市中心好像被炸弹攻击了一样一个人也没有……路上的人都戴起口罩，很多地方需要量体温才能进入，没有戴口罩就不提供服务。
"We felt as if the city centre had been hit by a bomb... Everyone on the road was wearing masks, many places needed temperature to get in, and no service was provided without masks.
”住在“新天地”大邱教会附近的美国人梅里德斯 (Meredith Khanloo) 对《财经》记者指出。
Meredith Khanloo, an American living near the Taegu church in Xintiandi, told Caijing.
在大邱生活了13年的她介绍，很多韩国人认为“新天地”教会是社会上的负面力量，信徒在路上传播福音时让人觉得不舒服，但在这次疫情之前大部分人选择忽视他们。
After 13 years in Daegu, she said many South Koreans view the Church as a negative force in society, with believers feeling uncomfortable spreading the gospel on the road, but most people chose to ignore them before the outbreak.
“新天地”教会成立于1984年，创办人李万熙自称有“不坏肉身”，通过秘密传教，要求信徒隐匿身份潜入其他教会传教，手法颇受争议。
Founded in 1984, founder Lee Wanxi claimed to have a "non-bad body", through secret proselytizing, asked believers to sneak into other churches in a controversial way.
教徒相信李万熙是基督再世，教会是真正的继承者，当审判日来临时将能带领教徒进天堂。
Believers believe that Lee Wanxi is the reincarnation of Christ, the church is the true successor, when the day of judgment comes will lead believers to heaven.
让外界讶异的是，2月24日参与主要疫区抗疫的大邱西区卫生所官员确诊感染病毒，被确诊后他承认自己也是“新天地”教会信徒。
Surprisingly, on February 24, officials at the Taegu Western Health Centre, which was involved in fighting the epidemic in the major affected areas, confirmed the virus and admitted that he was also a member of the Church of Xintiandi.
该名官员主管该地区整体防疫政策，确诊后卫生所50名职员被要求立即回家进行自我隔离。
The officer was in charge of the overall vaccination policy in the area and 50 staff of the post-diagnosis clinic were asked to return home immediately for self-isolation.
由教会引起的疫情引发韩国社会的愤怒，数万人签署要求该教会解散，但是教会发言人反驳称教会也是受害者，同时指控外界抹黑教会。
The church-caused outbreak sparked outrage in South Korean society, with tens of thousands signing up for its dissolution, but church spokesmen retorted that the church was also a victim and accused the outside world of discrediting the church.
不过，教会后来改变态度，与政府达成协议，将交出全体成员名单和联系方式，特别是今年1月-2月参加过大邱教会活动的人员，配合政府进行病毒检测。
However, the Church later changed its attitude and reached an agreement with the Government to hand over the full list of members and contact details, particularly those who participated in the Taegu Church activities in January-February this year, to assist the Government in carrying out virus testing.
在首尔居住从事中韩文翻译的朴女士非常愤怒地对《财经》记者表示，新冠病毒在韩国大流行全是因为“新天地”教徒。
Ms. Park, who lives in Seoul and works as a Chinese-Korean translator, told Caijing angrily that the New Crown Virus pandemic in South Korea was all about Sinti.
“那些人精神不正常。
"Those people are insane.
我们原本并不担心新冠病毒，但现在情况完全变了，我们也开始担忧，甚至感到不安。
We didn't worry about the new Crown virus, but it has changed, and we are beginning to worry and even feel uneasy.
”朴女士的儿子在2月14日刚刚经历毕业典礼，那时韩国完全感受不到新冠病毒流行的气氛。
Ms Park's son had just graduated from graduation on February 14, a time when South Korea simply did not feel the vibe of the new crown virus.
有两个孩子的梅里德斯担忧地表示，除非她相信疫情获得控制，她和很多韩国妈妈都不会准时在新的开学日将孩子送到学校，“妈妈们非常担心自己的孩子到时候会独自被隔离或在医院接受治疗。
Unless she believes the outbreak is under control, Merides, who has two children, says she and many South Korean mothers will not be able to send their children to school on the new school day on time.
”为尽快控制疫情，中央政府正编列新的预算，协助大邱和庆尚北道政府进行疫情封锁，“织密防疫网”阻断进一步社区传播。
To bring the outbreak under control as soon as possible, the central government is drawing up a new budget to help the Daegu and Gyeongshan provincial governments to block further community transmission.
另外，尽管国内制造商近来提高口罩产量，每日产量将达到1100万片，但是国内需求量庞大仍导致供应短缺，韩国政府决定自2月26日起限制口罩出口。
The government has also decided to restrict the export of face masks from February 26, despite recent efforts by domestic manufacturers to boost production to 11 million tablets a day, which is still suffering from a shortage of domestic demand.
中韩往来紧密，两国也面临如何共同防疫的挑战。
China and South Korea have close ties and face the challenge of how to prevent the disease together.
随着韩国大学即将陆续开学，3.8万名中国学生将回到韩国就学，韩国政府为此已拨出50亿韩元（2888万元人民币）用于中国学生14天隔离和发放口罩之用。
The South Korean government has allocated 5 billion won (28.88 million yuan) to Chinese students for 14 days of isolation and the distribution of face masks as universities begin to reopen in South Korea and 38,000 Chinese students will return to South Korea.
网络上甚至出现大批韩国游客乘坐飞机前往中国青岛避难的说法，韩国驻华使馆文化新闻官金万洙告诉《财经》记者，来华躲避疫情的说法不准确，有很多正常往来中韩两地的旅客，现在两国都在为抗击疫情防止扩散努力。
He told Caijing that it was inaccurate to say that he had come to China to escape the epidemic. There were many regular travellers from China and South Korea, and both countries are now fighting the spread of the disease.
为了彰显中韩友谊，韩国总统文在寅2月21日和中国国家主席习近平通话，表达韩国协助中方抗疫的善意，会谈还确认中韩高层会谈如期举行，习主席将于今年上半年到访韩国。
President Wen Jieyin spoke with Chinese President Xi Jinping on February 21 to express the good will of the ROK to help China fight against the disease. The talks also confirmed that the high-level talks between China and South Korea are on schedule and that Xi will visit the ROK in the first half of this year.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情预警升至最高，韩国将检测“新天地”教会全部成员。
Early warning of the outbreak rose to its highest level, and South Korea will test all members of the New World Church.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情预警升至最高，韩国将检测“新天地”教会全部成员";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; South Korea will test & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "韩国已经过了政府防疫部门能独立控制疫情的阶段，现在已经进入整个社会都要配合防疫的关键时期。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Korea has passed the stage when the government's immunization department was able to control the outbreak independently, and is now entering a critical period when society as a whole must cooperate with epidemic prevention.
根据相关部门的推演，3月3日之前将是韩国是否能有效控制疫情的时间窗口";。
By March 3, South Korea will be at least as good a time window as it has been able to control the epidemic, according to authorities.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
