真假“新冠疫苗”：专家呼吁谨慎发布防治信息，别轻信“有效药”。
True or False "New Crown Vaccine": Experts call for caution in delivering prevention messages, not trusting "effective drugs."
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 赵天宇。
Author Zhao Tianyu.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
药物、疫苗的筛选这样一个万众期待的大事，更需要准确传递信息，以减少公众误解图/新华文 |《财经》赵天宇编辑 | 王小2020年2月25日，又传出一款新冠肺炎治疗的“有效药”——新冠口服疫苗。
The much-anticipated screening of drugs and vaccines has added to the need for accurate information to reduce public misconceptions about the chart / Xinhua language. Zhao Tianyu, editor of Caijing and Wang Xiaoyu, announced on February 25, 2020, a new effective remedy for pneumonia - the new crown oral vaccine.
消息是天津市移动新媒体平台“津云”微博传出，称天津大学生命科学学院黄金海教授团队研发出新冠病毒口服新型防治制剂，也就是口服疫苗。
Tianjin mobile new media platform "Tianjin Yun" Weibo reported that the Tianjin University School of Life Sciences Professor of the team to develop a new oral crown virus prophylaxis, oral vaccine.
天津大学宣传部一位工作人员的手机因此消息，在当日上午就被媒体打到关机。
Tianjin University Propaganda Department of a staff member's mobile phone as a result of the news, the same morning was called off the media.
“后续的成果，现在也不好说，暂时没有更多进展。
"Follow-up results, it is not easy to say, no further progress for the time being.
”天津大学宣传部另一位人士告诉《财经》记者，黄金海团队的疫苗研发，现在只是取得了一个初步的进展，是初步成果，距离上市应用还需要一个漫长的过程，需要严谨的科学求证。
Another person in the propaganda department of Tianjin University told Caijing that the research and development of vaccines by the Golden Sea team had made only preliminary progress and was a preliminary result.
新冠疫情暴发已近两月，相关药物、疫苗信息层出不穷。
Nearly two months after the outbreak of the new canopy epidemic, related drugs and vaccines have emerged one after another.
各方都在努力寻找有效药物，但是从最初哄抢双黄连口服液的闹剧开始，到如今，权威信息仍然不足。
All sides are struggling to find effective drugs, but authority has been scant since the initial drama of looting Shuanghuang Liang's oral liquid.
截至2月24日，《财经》记者查询，至少有225项新冠肺炎药物、疗法的临床试验已经注册。
As of February 24, Caijing reporter inquired that at least 225 new crown pneumonia drugs, therapy clinical trials have been registered.
加之一些尚未进行临床试验、便宣称“有效”的药物和疫苗，疫情下的药物市场，在药物有效与否上频现反转。
Add to that drugs and vaccines that have not yet been clinically tested and that are declared "effective," and the market for drugs in the face of the epidemic is often reversed in terms of their efficacy.
世界卫生组织（WHO）在官网上明确，“目前还没有可推荐的预防或治疗新型冠状病毒的任何特效药。
As the World Health Organization (WHO) makes clear on its website, "there is no specific drug recommended to prevent or treat this new coronavirus.
”WHO总干事高级顾问布鲁斯·艾尔沃德在2月24日新闻发布会中说，研究人员曹彬（中日友好医院副院长、国家卫健委专家组成员）说现在招募病人变难了，不仅是因为病例减少了，而是同时还有其他的多种药品在开展试验，而那些药物并未见得有多么大的希望。
Researchers such as Cao Bin, vice-president of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital and a member of the National Health Council's panel of experts, said it was becoming difficult to recruit patients, not only because fewer cases had been reported, but also because there were other drugs being tested that didn't seem to hold much promise.
2月24日，国务院应对新冠肺炎疫情联防联控机制科研攻关组（下称科研攻关组）发布消息，对临床研究提出规范。
On February 24, the State Council should release the news to the Joint Research and Tackling Group of the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemiology and Control Mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the scientific research key group) and propose norms for clinical research.
如发现试验组有明显的毒副作用，或者无明确的治疗效果，立即向医疗机构报告，医疗机构提前终止研究，并及时上报联防联控机制科研攻关组。
If it is found that the test group has obvious side effects or has no definite therapeutic effect, report immediately to the medical institution, terminate the research ahead of time, and report to the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism Research Tackling Group in time.
药物是商品，背后离不开商业逻辑和商业利益，无论疫情来临与否。
Drugs are commodities, backed by commercial logic and commercial interests, regardless of whether the outbreak comes or not.
疫情下，某种药物若被称有效，各地加急采购，便可以在产销上一路绿灯，对药企的营收、品牌、社会责任、公益形象，都有益处。
In an epidemic situation, if a drug is claimed to be effective, local emergency procurement, can be in the production and marketing all the way green lights, drug enterprises on the revenue, brand, social responsibility, public image, are beneficial.
正因如此，发布药物、疫苗信息应格外谨慎。
That is why we should be extremely cautious in publishing information about drugs and vaccines.
同时，科研攻关组鼓励疗效明确的药品，应促进药品尽快推广使用，以尽快使更多患者受益。
At the same time, the scientific research team encourages clear-cut drugs, should promote the use of drugs as soon as possible, so as to benefit more patients as soon as possible.
“给大家一点希望也好，我不反对，但严谨些更好。
"It's as well to give everyone a little hope, I don't object, but it's better to be precise.
”疫苗和免疫规划专家陶黎纳说。
Vaccine and immunization planning expert Tauriana said.
药物、疫苗有效吗？忽有忽无据上述消息说，黄金海自己已经4倍量口服过这款新冠病毒口服疫苗的样品，称无任何副反应。
Does the drug or vaccine work? All of a sudden there is no evidence that the Golden Sea itself has taken four times as many samples of the new crown virus oral vaccine, saying there was no side effect.
上述天津大学宣传部人士说，发布这一消息是希望寻找有资质的企业参与合作，共同推进疫苗的开发。
The announcement was made in an effort to find qualified companies to work together to develop a vaccine, said Tian Jin University's propaganda department.
黄金海团队研制的这款疫苗，以食品级安全酿酒酵母为载体，以新型冠状病毒S蛋白为靶点，产生抗体。
The vaccine, developed by the Golden Sea team, targets a new coronavirus S protein and produces antibodies using food-grade fermented yeast as a carrier.
“估计类似原来兰菌净，但不是疫苗。
"It's similar to the original strain, but it's not a vaccine.
”一位中国疾控系统疫苗专家对《财经》记者分析。
An expert on China's disease-control system vaccine told Caijing.
中国科学院院士、疫苗专家陈凯先曾在一个新闻发布会介绍，疫苗开发的流程，包括获得免疫原、免疫反应测试、毒理研究等前期研发环节，以及疫苗研发注册等步骤，这其中又包括一系列临床研究。
At a press conference, Chen Kai, an academician and vaccine expert from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, described the vaccine development process, including the acquisition of immunogen, immunological response tests, toxicological studies, and registration for vaccine development, which included a series of clinical studies.
“所以，疫苗的研发需要一个过程，需要比较长的时间”。
"So vaccine development is a process that takes a long time," he said.
在现阶段，确证这款新冠病毒口服制剂有效性，显然为时过早。
At this stage, it is clearly too early to confirm the efficacy of this oral formulation.
按照黄金海的解释，目前该团队在积极布置进行动物毒理学、免疫效力、中试生产等评价。
According to the Golden Sea interpretation, the team is currently actively engaged in animal toxicology, immune efficacy, pilot production and other evaluation.
也就是说，这距离大规模确认安全有效、最终上市使用，还有相当漫长的路。
In other words, it is still a long way from large-scale confirmation of the safety and effectiveness of the final use of the market.
新冠疫情暴发的近两个月来，类似的误导、误解已多次发生。
In the nearly two months since the outbreak of the new crown epidemic, similar misinformation and misunderstanding have occurred many times.
一位44岁、家住郑州的女士，在2月14日被确诊新冠肺炎。
A 44-year-old woman from Zhengzhou was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 14.
回溯既往经历，2月1日她未出门，2月2日她步行到一家药店购买“双黄连口服液”，此后自述未外出，2月13日身体不适，去郑州市中心医院就诊，次日确诊。
Retrospective experience, February 1, she did not go out, February 2, she walked to a pharmacy to buy "Shuang Huanglian oral liquid," since then said not to go out, February 13, not feeling well, Zhengzhou City Central Hospital, the next day confirmed.
这条消息来自郑州市委宣传部官方微博“郑州发布”，病例编号是144。
The message came from Zhengzhou Municipal Communications Department's official Weibo "Zhengzhou release," case number 144.
消息下面热度最高的留言写道，“真讽刺”。
The hottest message under the news said, "That's ironic."
给公众带来困惑并引发质疑的所谓抵制新冠病毒的“有效药”，最早正是双黄连口服液。
It was Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid, the so-called "effective medicine" against the new crown virus that confuses and challenges the public.
“上海药物所、武汉病毒所联合发现中成药双黄连口服液可抑制新型冠状病毒”的消息一出，出于对专业科研机构的信任，全国各地民众连夜排队抢购双黄连口服液。
"The Shanghai Medicines Institute and Wuhan Virus Institute have jointly discovered that the Chinese patent medicine Shuanghuanglian oral liquid can suppress a new coronavirus." Out of trust in professional scientific research institutions, people from all over the country queued up overnight to buy Shuanghuanglian oral liquid.
江苏省徐州市并不属于新冠疫情中心地带，即便在这里，当时多家药店同样出现双黄连抢购一空，人们排队一直到药店外。
Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province, is not in the heart of the New Crown Epidemic, and even here pharmacies were snapped up and people lined up outside.
《财经》记者了解到，双黄连在感冒药里本来算不上热销品种，药店库存平常并不多，很快出现断货，这更加剧民众的抢购心理。
"Caijing" reporters learned that Shuang Huanglian in cold medicine was not a hot variety, pharmacy inventory is usually not many, and soon there was a shortage of goods, which exacerbated the people's buying psychology.
然而，这是一个未经临床证实的药物信息。
However, this is an unclinically proven drug message.
面对临床试验前期的相关试验数据的问题时，中国科学院上海药物所的相关人士回答说，“我这边没有，我不知道，我现在没办法回答您这个问题。
"I don't have one, I don't know, I can't answer that question right now," said the Shanghai Institute of Medicine of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
”上海药物研究所新闻发言人则称“这一结论是基于实验室体外研究的结果”，下一步还需通过进一步临床研究来证实。
A spokesman for the Shanghai Institute of Medicine said: "This conclusion is based on the results of in vitro laboratory studies," which need to be confirmed by further clinical studies.
清华大学法学院卫生法研究中心特聘研究员卓永清并不认可，“有什么证据能够让他这么说话呢？”他质疑。
Zhuo Yongqing, a special research fellow at the Center for Health Law at Tsinghua University School of Law, does not agree, "What evidence would make him talk that way?" he questioned.
从那时起，业内普遍提出建议：没事不要乱吃药。
Since then, the industry has generally made recommendations: nothing to take drugs.
不过，没隔多久，另一个对新冠肺炎效果“忽有忽无”的药物又出现了，阿比多尔。
Soon, however, another drug with a "slight" effect on new crown pneumonia reappeared, Abidol.
阿比多尔的历史可追溯到前苏联，主要用于治疗流感。
Mr Abidor's history goes back to the former Soviet Union, where it was mainly used to treat flu.
2月4日，中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟团队，在武汉公布了阿比多尔治疗新冠肺炎的初步测试结果，在体外细胞实验中显示，阿比多尔与对照组比较，“能有效抑制冠状病毒达到60倍，并且显著抑制病毒对细胞的病变效应”。
On February 4, Li Lanjuan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level group of experts of the State Health Commission, announced in Wuhan the preliminary results of Abidol's treatment of new crown pneumonia.
李兰娟院士提议，将阿比多尔列入国家卫健委的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》。
Academician Li Lanjuan proposed that Abidor be included in the National Health Council's "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (6th Edition)."
2月19日，此建议被采纳。
This recommendation was accepted on 19 February.
阿比多尔突然走红，甚至生产厂商“愕然”，对《财经》记者说：“很意外。
"It was a surprise," Mr. Abidor told Caijing as he suddenly became popular, and even the manufacturer was "stunned."
”反转来的很快。
The reverse is happening very quickly.
两日后，上海市公共卫生临床中心感染与免疫科10位作者，研究了134例新冠肺炎患者，回顾分析了这些患者临床治疗的经过。
Two days later, 10 authors from the Infection and Immunology Department of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center studied 134 patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia and reviewed the history of their clinical treatment.
结论是，未发现阿比多尔具有改善症状、或缩短呼吸道标本病毒核酸转阴时间的作用，因此认为，药物对新型冠状病毒肺炎的治疗效果“仍有待进一步评价”。
In conclusion, Abidor was not found to have the effect of improving symptoms or shortening the time of nucleic acid transvagination of RSV. Therefore, the therapeutic effect of the drug on the new coronavirus pneumonia "still needs to be further evaluated."
同时，上述研究还分析了洛匹那韦利托那韦对新冠肺炎的疗效，结论也是一样。
The study also analyzed the effect of lobinavelitonavir on new crown pneumonia, and the same conclusion was reached.
虽然同在新冠肺炎的诊疗方案中，但洛匹那韦利托那韦进入的时间更早，从最初即被推荐试用。
Although in the same programme, Lopina Velitonavir entered the hospital much earlier and was recommended for trial in the first place.
这一研究已发表在《中华传染病》。
The study was published in the Chinese Journal of Infectious Diseases.
药物遴选和信息发布，不能随意目前各国医药界公认的，就是药物通过临床试验进行验证的整套流程。
Drug selection and dissemination of information, not readily accepted in the current world of medicine, is the drug through clinical trials to verify the entire process.
在允许被人类服用之前，化学药要经历一个相当长的验证过程。
Chemicals undergo a lengthy validation process before being allowed to be taken by humans.
药品处方组成、工艺、药学、药剂学、药理、毒理学的研究，其中包括动物实验，药品初步确定后，再经过人体的三期临床试验，主要验证安全性、疗效、副作用(安全性)及用法等。
Pharmacological, pharmacological and toxicological studies, including animal studies, preliminary determination of drugs, followed by a third phase of human clinical trials, mainly to verify safety, efficacy, side effects (safety) and use.
所有步骤通过了，这个药品才能送药监部门审批后，上市应用。
After all the steps have been taken, this drug can only be sent to the Department of Medicine for approval, marketing applications.
以此对比，如今这些号称对新冠肺炎治疗“有效”的药物，无一通过此流程。
By contrast, none of the drugs now claimed to be "effective" in treating pneumonia have passed this procedure.
面对灾难有特殊性，临床研究促进公益基金秘书长李树婷告诉《财经》记者，疫情期间，之所以可以使用这些已有的药物，是基于迫切的临床需求，“我们面对的是全新的病毒，没有针对这个病毒的上市药”，此时如果有具有相同机理或体外实验证明有效的药物，是可以在人体试用的，符合伦理要求。
In the face of the special nature of the disaster, Li Shu Ting, secretary-general of the Public Interest Fund for Clinical Research, told Caijing that the use of the existing drugs during the outbreak was based on urgent clinical need. "We are dealing with a new virus and no marketed drugs for the virus.
截至2月24日，中国临床试验注册中心网站上，已经注册了225项新冠肺炎药物和疗法的临床试验，既涉及法匹拉韦、磷酸氯喹等呼声很高的药物，也有双黄连口服液、痰热清注射液等中药。
As of February 24, 225 clinical trials of new crown pneumonia drugs and treatments had been registered on the website of the China Clinical Trials Registration Center, involving both highly vocal drugs such as Fabiravir and chloroquine phosphate, as well as Chinese medicines such as Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid and Tanreqing Injection.
一项注册于2月2日的临床试验，研究太极拳对新冠肺炎患者康复期肺功能、生存质量的影响。
A clinical trial, registered Feb. 2, investigated the effects of Taijiquan on lung function and quality of life in convalescent patients with Newcrown Pneumonia.
另一项临床试验，注册在2月18日，课题相似，研究健身气功养肺方。
Another clinical trial, registered on Feb. 18, looked at fitness Qigong to raise lungs on a similar topic.
“如果中国的试验设计没有严格的参数标准，例如对照组、随机分组和临床结果的衡量标准，那么这些努力将徒劳无功。
"These efforts will be in vain if China's test designs do not have rigorous parameters, such as control groups, randomized trials and metrics for clinical outcomes.
”世界卫生组织（WHO）首席科学家Soumya Swaminathan说，其团队一直在评估中国的许多试验，并草拟一项可由世界各地的临床医生同时进行的临床试验方案计划。
Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the World Health Organization, says his team has been evaluating many trials in China and drafting a plan for clinical trials that could be carried out simultaneously by clinicians around the world.
Soumya Swaminathan说，WHO正在与中国科学家一道制定标准。
Soumya Swaminathan says the WHO is working with Chinese scientists to develop standards.
例如，无论接受何种治疗，都应以相同的方式来衡量一个人病程的恢复或恶化。
Whatever treatment is received, for example, the recovery or deterioration of a person's course should be measured in the same way.
由于新药研发耗时太漫长，新冠肺炎疫情等不了，所以找药从效率角度考虑， “老药新用”是一条路，从既有药物中筛选出有潜力的，然后经临床验证得出有效与否的结论。
Because new drugs take so long to develop, and new cases of pneumonia cannot wait, finding a cure is a way, from the point of view of efficiency, to sift out potential drugs from existing ones, and then clinically validate them.
即便是专门从事药物早期筛选的公司，也不敢轻易说出哪种药“会有效”。
Even companies that specialize in early screening of drugs are hesitant to say which drugs "will work."
晶泰科技首席科学家张佩宇告诉《财经》记者，疫情开始后，该公司已经着手用人工智能和计算化学筛选药物，不断精简候选药。
Zhang Pei-yu, chief scientist at Jingtai Technology, told Caijing that since the outbreak began, the company has begun streamlining candidate drugs with artificial intelligence and computational chemistry.
“我们现在确实不太方便说哪种药物最有可能，就是怕误导大家。
"We are really not in a good position to say which drug is most likely to mislead us.
”他坦言，这件事情应该谨慎，“药物有了一定的验证，甚至是说准备做临床试验了，才会披露消息”。
He admitted that the matter should be treated with caution, "the drug has been tested to some extent, and even is ready to do clinical trials before disclosing information."
2月24日，WHO总干事高级顾问布鲁斯·艾尔沃德在新闻发布会上说，尽管我们列出了很长的研究清单，但也强调研究项目应该有优先次重，以便快速地掌握知识以进一步阻断病毒传播，进一步降低重症率及病死率。
On 24 February, Bruce Alvold, Senior Adviser to the Director-General of WHO, said at a press conference that, while we had a long list of studies, we stressed that research projects should be prioritized so that knowledge could be quickly captured to further disrupt virus transmission and further reduce the severity and fatality rates.
“我们认为瑞西韦德可能有预期效力”。
"We think that Rexi Wade may have the desired effect."
同日，上述科研攻关组发文称，对疗效明确的药品应促进药品尽快推广使用，以尽快使更多患者受益。
On the same day, the above-mentioned research team issued a communication, clear-cut drugs should promote the use of drugs as soon as possible, so as to benefit more patients as soon as possible.
以什么标准选药？不仅是新冠肺炎疫情，很多疾病都会有官方发布的诊疗方案，里面若干章节，覆盖疾病检测、药物和疗法推荐等，引导医生以科学合理的方法诊治病患。
What are the criteria for choosing a drug? Not only is there a new crown pneumonia outbreak, but many diseases are covered by an official diagnosis and treatment plan that includes chapters covering disease testing, drug use, and recommendations for treatment, leading doctors to treat patients scientifically and rationally.
截至2月24日，新冠肺炎的诊疗方案已更新到第六版，全国的医疗机构需要参照执行。
As at 24 February, the new Crown Pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme had been updated to version 6, which needs to be implemented by medical institutions across the country.
第六版是由国家卫健委和国家中医药管理局组织专家，在对前期医疗救治工作进行分析、研判、总结的基础上，对诊疗方案进行的修订。
The sixth edition is organized by the National Health Care Commission and the State Administration of Chinese Medicine, based on the analysis, evaluation and summary of the previous medical treatment, the revision of the diagnosis and treatment plan.
药物的筛选标准到底是什么，仍不清晰；为什么有的药物能进诊疗方案，有的进不了？目前未见制定方和发布方给予解释。
It remains unclear what the screening criteria for drugs are; why some drugs can enter diagnostic protocols, or fail to do so? No explanation has been given by formulators and distributors.
一线医院在救治病人时，会在诊疗方案基础上做些许的调整。
The first-line hospital will make some adjustments on the basis of the diagnosis and treatment plan when treating the patients.
华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院的救治医疗专家根据临床一线诊治经验，加之国家卫健委的诊疗方案等，1月21日发布该医院的诊疗快速指南，此后也更新过几次。
On 21 January, medical experts from Tongji Hospital attached to Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, based on their clinical first-line experience and the National Health Care Commission's diagnosis and treatment programme, issued a quick guide to treatment at the hospital on 21 January and have since been updated several times.
“有一点小的差别很正常。
"" A small difference is normal.
”武汉医疗救治组组长赵建平说。
Wuhan medical treatment group leader Zhao Jianping said.
诊疗方案对药物销量和知名度的提升，显然是有效果的。
Diagnosis and treatment programmes for the increase in drug sales and visibility, is clearly effective.
疫情期间人们隔离在家很少出门，药店的生意也在滑坡，销售额不比以往。
During the epidemic, people stayed at home and rarely went out, and drugstore business was slumping, with sales no higher than usual.
连花清瘟也是中药，很早就出现在新冠肺炎的诊疗方案中，作为医学观察期的推荐中成药之一。
Lianhua Qing distemper is also a traditional Chinese medicine. It appears early in the diagnosis and treatment of new crown pneumonia, as one of the recommended Chinese patent medicine.
翰林医药总经理庞子晗告诉《财经》记者，连花清瘟成了为数不多的热销药。
Han Lin's General Manager Pang Zihan told Caijing that even Hua Qing Distemper was one of the few popular medicines.
中药连花清瘟的生产商借势获得红利，比如以岭药业（002603.SZ），早在1月20日便涨停，彼时新冠疫情暴发不久。
Chinese medicine makers, such as Eling Pharmaceuticals (002603.SZ), stopped trading as early as January 20, shortly after the outbreak of the new crown.
至今该公司股价也大幅高于疫情前。
So far the company's share price is also much higher than before the epidemic.
SARS疫情期间的诊疗方案，如何描述药物、如何筛选，或可做个参考。
Diagnosis and treatment protocols during SARS outbreak, how to describe drugs, how to screen, or a reference.
2003年9月30日，《中华医学杂志》发表了《传染性非典型肺炎（SARS）诊疗方案》，此前已成立了编写组，钟南山担任组长。
On September 30, 2003, the Chinese Medical Journal published the Diagnostic and Treatment Programme for Infectious Atypical Pneumonia (SARS), following the establishment of a writing team headed by Zhong Nan Shan.
这一版中已经写明，“在诊疗方面，特别是治疗方面，尽可能汇集专家的共识，而对临床疗效尚未肯定的防治手段不予推荐。
It has been stated in this edition that "in the field of diagnosis and treatment, particularly in the field of treatment, expert consensus is gathered whenever possible, while preventive measures with uncertain clinical efficacy are not recommended."
”2005年5月25日，原卫生部、国家中医药管理局再发通知，更新了SARS诊疗方案（2004版）。
On May 25, 2005, the former Ministry of Health and the State Administration of Chinese Medicine issued another circular updating the SARS diagnosis and treatment programme (2004 version).
这一版中标明，尚未发现针对SARS病毒的特异性药物。
No specific drugs for the SARS virus have been identified in this edition.
临床回顾性分析资料显示，利巴韦林等常用抗病毒药对SARS无效。
Clinical retrospective analysis showed that ribavirin and other commonly used antiviral drugs were ineffective against SARS.
多位医学专家提醒，十几年过去，新型冠状病毒来临，人类依然没有特效药，只能不停地去尝试，受益于技术水平进步，效率已经高于从前。
A number of medical experts reminded that more than a decade later, the arrival of a new coronavirus, humanity still has no specific drugs, can only try, benefit from technological progress, the efficiency has been higher than before.
但问题仍显而易见：药物筛选如果没有一个统一的标准，仅靠专家、机构发布，或仅凭个案便认为药物有效，可能会滋生更多的炒作行为，也不利于一线医护人员合理安排救治方案。
But the problem remains clear: without a uniform standard for drug screening, published by experts, agencies, or considered to be effective on a case-by-case basis, drug screening may encourage more hype and discourage front-line health-care providers from properly arranging their treatment.
业内普遍认为，药物筛选这样一个万众期待的大事，更需要准确传递信息，以减少公众误解。
The need for accurate messaging to reduce public misperceptions is widely recognized in the industry as a highly anticipated event.
在新冠肺炎治疗和科研的比拼中，不要再玩文字游戏了。
In the fight between new crown pneumonia treatment and scientific research, do not play word games.
（《财经》记者信娜对此文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing reporter Caijing also contributed to this article) Click here to see more about the epidemic report. & # 160; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
真假“新冠疫苗”：专家呼吁谨慎发布防治信息，别轻信“有效药”。
True or False "New Crown Vaccine": Experts call for caution in delivering prevention messages, not trusting "effective drugs."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "真假“新冠疫苗”：专家呼吁谨慎发布防治信息，别轻信“有效药”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "药物、疫苗的筛选这样一个万众期待的大事，更需要准确传递信息，以减少公众误解";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
