疫情蔓延终结华尔街牛市？A股震荡仍未结束。
Outbreak ends Wall Street bull market? A-share shock is still not over.
金焱  郭楠。
Yanyan Jin, Guo Nan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情持续在中国境外蔓延会恶化市场情绪，美欧股市最近两天持续下跌与此有关。
The continued spread of the epidemic outside China will exacerbate sentiment, which has been linked to continued declines in US and European stock markets over the past two days.
展望未来，资本市场持续上行的希望在于：中国疫情防控企稳，世界其他地区迅速协调行动文 |《财经》特派华盛顿记者金焱《财经》记者 郭楠 编辑 | 陆玲连日来，世界各地新冠肺炎疫情的持续蔓延，让美欧投资者看到这只黑天鹅的临近。
Looking ahead, the hope for continued upward movement in capital markets is that China's epidemic is stabilizing and the rest of the world has quickly coordinated its actions with the rest of the world. Caijing, a Washington-based reporter with Caijing, has seen the Black Swan approach for days as the worldwide outbreak of pneumonia continues to spread.
当地时间2月25日，美股再遭遇重挫。
Feb. 25, local time, the United States shares again suffered a major setback.
道琼斯指数在2月24日跌超千点后，2月25日收盘再下跌879.40点，跌幅3.15%，报27081.36点；标普500指数收盘下跌97.70点，跌幅3.03%，报3128.21点，两个交易日已连跌6.3%，为2015年8月以来最大跌幅；纳斯达克指数收盘下跌255.70点，跌幅2.77%，报8965.61点。
The Dow closed down 879.40 points, or 3.15%, at 27081.36 after falling below 1,000 on Feb. 24, while the S & P 500 finished down 97.70 points, or 3.03%, at 3128.21, down 6.3% in two trading days, the biggest drop since August 2015, while the Nasdaq closed down 255.70 points, or 2.77%, at 8965.61.
中国沪深A股在海外市场连续大跌的背景下，也未能继续独善其身。
China's Shanghai and Shenzhen A shares in overseas markets have continued to fall in the background of the failure to continue alone.
2月26日上证综指震荡下行，全天跌幅0.83%，收于2987.93点，再次跌破3000点心理关口。
On February 26, the Shanghai composite index fell 0.83% to 2987.93, falling below the 3,000-point mark.
深证成指当天跌3.02%，收于11497.55点。
Shenzhen Stock Exchange closed down 3.02% at 11,497.55.
此前涨幅可观的A股创业板指数2月26日跌4.66%，收于2180.70点。
The A-share index, which had gained considerably earlier, fell 4.66 per cent to 2180.70 on February 26.
摩根大通一位不具名经济学家对《财经》记者表示，非理性繁荣统治市场的时光不多了。
'The irrational exuberance is running out of time, 'an anonymous economist at J.P. Morgan told Caijing.
如果从美国股市2月21日遭抛售、纳斯达克指数录得约三周来的最大单日百分比跌幅时起计算，美国股市已经连续三天大跌。
U.S. stocks have fallen for three straight days, after being sold off on Feb. 21 and the Nasdaq index recording its biggest percentage decline in about three weeks.
市场情绪已变，如果还没有完全掉头，至少也到了观望之际。
The mood in the markets has changed, and if not yet fully turned, at least it is time to wait and see.
一方面，亚洲、中东和欧洲持续增加新的病例；另一方面，伊朗、意大利和韩国报告的新病例急剧增加。
On the one hand, new cases continue to increase in Asia, the Middle East and Europe; on the other hand, there has been a sharp increase in new cases reported in Iran, Italy and South Korea.
欧洲主要股指周二收盘全线下跌，意大利富时MIB指数跌1.44%，法国CAC40指数收跌1.94%，德国DAX指数收跌1.88%，英国富时100指数跌1.94%。
Europe's main stock indexes closed down Tuesday across the board, Italy's FTSE-MIB index fell 1.44%, France's CAC40 fell 1.94%, Germany's DAX index closed down 1.88%, and the FTSE 100 index fell 1.94%.
国际油价继续下行。
International oil prices continued to fall.
周二收盘，美国西得克萨斯中质原油(WTI)4月期货下跌3%，报49.90美元/桶；布伦特原油4月期货下跌2.4%，报54.95美元/桶。
West Texas Intermediate futures ended Tuesday down 3% at $49.90 a barrel, while Brent crude fell 2.4% to $54.95 a barrel.
国际金价亦大幅走弱，市场获利回吐迹象明显。
International gold prices also weakened sharply, the market profit is clear signs of recovery.
周二收盘，纽约商品交易所黄金期货市场交投最活跃的4月黄金期价比前一交易日下跌26.6美元，收于每盎司1650美元，跌幅为1.59%。
The most active April gold session on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed Tuesday down $26.6, or 1.59%, from the previous session to $1,650 an ounce.
美国卫生与公共服务部部长亚历克斯·阿扎尔(Alex Azar)2月25日在记者会上说，美国公众目前面临的风险仍低，但随着疫情在全球扩散，情况有可能迅速改变。
Alex Azar, the US health and human services secretary, told a news conference on Feb. 25 that the risks facing the American public were still low, but could change rapidly as the epidemic spread around the world.
同天早些时候，美国疾控中心国家免疫和呼吸疾病中心主任南希·麦斯尼耶(Nancy Messonnier)在一个媒体简报会上也说，新冠病毒迟早会在美国传播。
Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told a media briefing earlier the same day that the new crown virus would spread in the U.S. sooner or later.
她说：“问题不在于这种情况是否会发生，而在于这种情况何时会发生，以及这个国家有多少人会患上重病。
"The question is not whether this will happen, but when it will happen and how many people in the country will fall seriously ill," she said.
”她接着警告说：“对日常生活的干扰有可能是严重的。
"Interference with everyday life can be serious," she warns.
”美国目前有57个确诊新冠病毒感染病例，主要以撤侨人员为主，包括从停靠日本横滨的钻石公主号邮轮撤回的相关人员，及从武汉撤回的侨民。
There are 57 confirmed cases of the virus in the US, mainly among evacuees, including those from the MV Princess Diamond, which docked in Yokohama, Japan, and expatriates withdrawn from Wuhan.
在美国境内发生的确诊病例有14起，其中有12起有中国旅行史，两起与有旅行史的人有密切接触。
There were 14 confirmed cases in the United States, of which 12 had a history of travel to China and two had close contact with individuals with a history of travel.
美国疾控中心当天还警告说，如果新冠病毒在美国大面积传播，这将意味着大批人在同一时间需要医疗照顾，这将对医疗、学校、运输、执法、应急等社会多个方面造成冲击。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned the same day that if the virus spreads widely in the United States, it could mean large numbers of people in need of medical care at the same time, which would have an impact on many sectors of society, including health care, schools, transportation, law enforcement and emergency response.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）则对《财经》记者说，病毒持续在中国境外传播会恶化市场情绪。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global foreign-exchange director and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, told Caijing that continued transmission of the virus outside China would exacerbate market sentiment.
美国疾控中心的警告非常重要，如果疫情导致更严格的出行限制，对经济会产生更严重的负面影响。
The CDC's warning is important and could have a more serious negative impact on the economy if the outbreak leads to tighter travel restrictions.
出于对新冠肺炎疫情的担忧，旧金山市长伦敦·布里德(London Breed)于在25日宣布该市进入紧急状态。
San Francisco Mayor London Bred declared a state of emergency on Friday over concerns over the outbreak of pneumonia in the capital.
布里德在一份声明中说，虽然旧金山目前尚未有确诊病例，但“全球疫情形势正迅速变化，我们需要加强防范”。
Although there have been no confirmed cases in San Francisco, "the global epidemic is changing rapidly and we need to strengthen our defences," Blide said in a statement.
疫情诱发美股跌到十字路口在过去十年中，美股都奉行着逢低买入的操作方式。
The epidemic has pushed U.S. stocks to a crossroads. For the past decade, U.S. stocks have followed a buy-and-buy approach.
自上一次熊市以来，标普500指数已经有25次跌幅达到5%或以上，每一次都成为买入机会。
Since the last bear market, the S & P 500 has fallen 25 times by 5% or more, each time as a buying opportunity.
导致股市出现这些动荡的事件包括美国信用评级遭下调、贸易战、英国退欧和日本2011年大地震。
Events contributing to the stock market turmoil include a downgrade of US credit ratings, a trade war, Brexit and the 2011 earthquake in Japan.
本来，美国股市2月25日也要重复这一个逢低买入的操作。
Originally, the U. S. stock market on February 25 to repeat this bargain buying operation.
在“黑色星期一”之后，美股三大指数周二全线高开，似乎要来一波反弹操作。
After Black Monday, the three major U. S. stock indexes opened wide on Tuesday, as if to have a bounce.
但在恐慌情绪的主导下，美股迅速转跌，一路下行，道指创下2019年10月来新低，标普500指数再跌3%，连续4日跌超7.6%。
But, led by panic, U.S. stocks fell sharply, hitting a new low since October 2019, when the S & P 500 fell another 3%, falling more than 7.6% for four straight days.
约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)金融经济中心(Center for Financial Economics)主任Robert Barbera表示：“美国经济扩张已经进入第11年个年头，过去11年来所有让你害怕的事情，事后看来，都是买入机会。
Robert Barbera, director of the Center for Financial Economics at Johns Hopkins University, said: "The US is now in its eleventh year of economic expansion and everything you've been afraid of over the past 11 years looks like buying opportunities in hindsight."
”在美股再次遭到猛烈抛售，恐慌指数持续攀升，债券等安全资产受到追捧之际，按同样的思路，多位接受《财经》记者采访的经济学家表示，在疫情威胁下，各经济体或以宽松货币政策为主要基调。
Along the same lines, several economists interviewed by Caijing told Caijing that economies might be on a loose monetary policy stance amid renewed heavy selling of US stocks, rising panic indices and the pursuit of safe assets such as bonds.
杰弗瑞·杨对《财经》记者说，在过去十年中，人们接受的都是逢低买入的操作训练，因为它屡试不爽。
Over the past decade, people have been trained to buy low because it has been tried and tested, Jeffrey Young told Caijing.
股市大跌，美联储就实行宽松政策，如果疫情发展到每个人都必须待在家里的境地，那么降低利率有什么帮助？因此杰弗瑞·杨认为，这次的“低”与过去十年牛市中投资者习惯了的“逢低买入”有所不同。
With the stock market plunging and the Fed loosening its policy, and if everyone has to stay at home, what's the point of lowering interest rates? Jeffrey Young argues that this "low" is different from the "buy-in" that investors have been accustomed to in bull markets over the past decade.
当地时间2月25日，美国疾控中心承认，正在努力为各州和地方实验室提供新版本的新冠病毒检测试剂盒，原先的某些试剂盒存在缺陷。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) acknowledged on February 25 that it was working to provide state and local laboratories with new versions of the new Crown virus test kits, some of which were defective.
目前美国确诊数57个，仅对426人进行了测试，不包括乘坐撤侨航班上返美的公民。
Of the 57 confirmed cases in the United States, only 426 were tested, not including citizens returning to the United States on overseas evacuation flights.
此前，2月25日，美国卫生与公共服务部部长阿扎带领相关官员就新冠肺炎疫情在美国发展的情况向国会议员做闭门报告。
Earlier, on February 25, U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Ada led officials to brief lawmakers behind closed doors on the progress of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic in the United States.
闭门会议结束后，美国国会参议院拨款委员会主席谢尔比对媒体表示，就目前情况来看，25亿美元用于应对疫情可能不够。
At the end of the meeting, Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby told reporters that as things stand, $2.5 billion may not be enough to deal with the epidemic.
同时，越来越多的企业开始担心未来的盈利前景，一些经济学家已经下调了对该季度的增长预期，尤其是对亚洲部分。
Meanwhile, a growing number of companies are starting to worry about future earnings prospects, and some economists have cut their growth forecasts for the quarter, particularly in Asia.
一些市场人士认为，新冠肺炎疫情也许会成为这一操作的终结者。
Some market participants believe that the outbreak of pneumonia may be the end of the operation.
目前美股处于历史高位，在新冠疫情何时消失依旧不明之际，股市存在进一步下跌的可能。
With U.S. stocks at record highs, there is a risk of further declines as it remains unclear when the new crown will disappear.
在股市因为疫情在全球扩散而大跌之际，白宫首席经济顾问库德洛赶紧在25日表示，美国目前经济状况良好，行政当局控制住了新型冠状病毒疫情。
As the stock market tumbled as the epidemic spread around the world, White House Chief Economic Adviser Christopher Cudlow hastened to say on the 25th that the United States is in good shape and the administration has brought the new coronavirus under control.
他敦促大家“不要惊慌”。
He urged "not to panic."
他说：“我们的经济状况良好。
"Our economy is doing well," he said.
这个病毒不会持久的。
The virus won't last long.
我们已经控制住了它。
We've got it under control.
我不会说滴水不漏，但这些措施已经非常接近滴水不漏了。
I won't say anything, but these measures are very close to being watertight.
美国做得很好。
The United States is doing well.
”他还说，虽然这次疫情是一场“人类悲剧”，但在他看来可能不会成为一场“经济悲剧”。
He added that although the outbreak was a "human tragedy," it might not be an "economic tragedy" in his view.
杰弗瑞·杨认为，美联储和财政部将不得不祭出更“宽容”工具，像中国政府对银行实行的一系列措施一样，而能让市场企稳的重要正常化指标，是中国一些重要工业省份如广东和浙江最新数据有良好表现。
Jeffery Young argues that the Fed and the Treasury will have to offer more "lenient" tools, like the series of measures imposed by the Chinese government on banks, and that the key normalization indicators that will stabilize the market are the latest data from some important industrial provinces in China, such as Guangdong and Zhejiang.
市场持续上行的希望在于，或者中国疫情企稳，或者世界其他地区迅速采取行动。
The hope that markets will continue to rise is either that the Chinese epidemic stabilizes or that the rest of the world will act quickly.
A股能否独善其身 ？面对海外市场连续大跌，沪深A股在2月25日的震荡向上之后，2月26日经历了震荡下行，其中深圳市场和创业板跌幅明显，中国股市能否独善其身，引发市场争议。
In the face of a series of overseas market falls, Shanghai and Shenzhen A shares after the February 25 shock upward, February 26 experienced a shock downward, Shenzhen market and GEM decline obvious, whether China's stock market can escape the market controversy.
2月26日开盘，三大股指全线下跌，上证指数低开1.15%，创业板指低开1.69%。
Feb. 26, all three indexes fell, with the Shanghai index falling 1.15% and the GEM down 1.69%.
从行业上看，获利资金开始撤离科技股，电子、计算机、生物医药、通信等行业领跌，创业板明显走弱，建筑装饰、房地产、钢铁、建筑材料等行业护盘，沪指有所企稳。
In terms of industry, the profit began to withdraw from the technology stocks, electronics, computers, biomedicine, communications and other industries led the decline, GEM clearly weakened, architectural decoration, real estate, steel, building materials and other industries, the Shanghai index stabilized.
截至收盘，上证指数收于2987.93点，下跌0.83%，深证成指收于11497.55点，大跌3.02%，创业板指收于2180.70点，大跌4.66%。
The Shanghai index closed down 0.83 per cent at 2987.93, down 3.02 per cent at 11,497.55, while the GEM closed down 4.66 per cent at 2180.70.
两市成交额1.31万亿元，连续六个交易日突破万亿。
The two cities turnover 1.31 trillion yuan, six consecutive trading day breakthrough trillion.
对于此前市场的快速上涨，西南证券首席宏观分析师杨业伟认为，无论节奏还是结构，都显示并非基本面主导，资金面产生了更大的主导作用，与2014-2016年类似，虽然程度不及，但主要逻辑均是货币宽松叠加向实体经济补偿，在金融市场形成流动性堰塞湖。
Yang Yiwei, chief macro analyst at Southwest Securities, argued that the pace or structure had shown that the fundamentals were not dominant and that the funds had assumed a more dominant role, similar to that of 2014-2016, although to a lesser extent, the main logic was monetary easing combined with real economic compensation to create liquidity barrier lakes in financial markets.
流动性盛宴何时结束？一些机构在近期提示了创业板的回调风险。
When does the liquidity bonanza end? Some institutions have recently pointed to the GEM's risk of a correction.
中信证券在上周日发布报告提出，今年A股第一轮“填坑”行情主要由流动性宽松驱动，各类信号明确后，后续动能将区域衰减，市场将进入一段平和期。
Citic Securities reported on Sunday that the first round of "pit filling" in A shares this year was driven mainly by easy liquidity, with subsequent momentum fading away after signals become clear and the market entering a period of calm.
博时基金首席宏观策略分析师魏凤春也表示，近期市场主要是流动性宽松所驱动，A股“赚钱效应”持续走强，各路资金活跃合力推高市场，虽然从估值、成交等角度看市场整体的过热程度并没有突破历史极端数据，但从行业间的估值差异看，从创业板成交量占比高达22.8%已经接近历史最高水平（23%），市场结构分化程度已处于历史较高水平。
Wei Fengchun, chief macro-strategy analyst at Bo Xue, also said that the recent market was mainly driven by easy liquidity, A-share "profit-making effect" continued to strengthen, although the overall market overheating from valuation, transaction value and other points of view did not break historical extremes, valuation differences from the value of 22.8% close to the highest level ever (23%), market structure differentiation has reached a historical high.
短期来看，资金仍会惯性流入市场，但需警惕在这种资金推动下市场波动将会放大。
In the short term, money will still flow into the market, but beware of the volatility that would be amplified by such funds.
“目前来看，创业板短期进入了震荡调整阶段。
"At present, GEM short-term into the shock adjustment phase.
”一位大型私募基金投资总监对《财经》记者表示。
A big private equity investment director told Caijing.
科技股调整，基建、地产等行业护盘。
Technology stocks adjustment, infrastructure, real estate and other industry protection.
“熟悉的味道，熟悉的配方。
"Familiar taste, familiar formula.
”有市场人士感叹。
"Some people in the market sigh.
2月以来，各地也已经纷纷出台房地产支持政策。
Since February, property support policies have been rolled out across the country.
继2月19日苏州新政对于现房销售和商品定价等方面做出调整后，东莞、惠州、广东省、河南省、驻马店市等地继续出台房地产市场支持政策，分别在土地市场、复工、销售、融资、居民购房等方面场提供支持。
Following the February 19 Suzhou New Deal adjustments to existing housing sales and commodity pricing, Dongguan, Huizhou, Guangdong Province, Henan Province, Ma Tian City and other places continued to introduce real estate market support policies, respectively in the land market, resumption of work, sales, financing, residential housing support.
有分析指出，近期地方政府稳经济诉求进一步加强，财政与货币也更趋积极，地方“一城一策”密集接力，经济、财政、地产三大政策放松信号力度加强，预计逆周期调控力度将进一步加大。
Some analysts point out that local governments' economic demand for stabilization has been further strengthened, and their fiscal and monetary policies have become more active. The local "one city, one policy" intensive relay has strengthened the three major policies of economic, financial and real estate loosening.
市场调整之时，外资的动向仍备受关注。
At a time when the market is adjusting, the trend of foreign capital remains a concern.
春节后开市首日，市场恐慌之时，北向资金逆势流入超180亿元。
On the first day after the Spring Festival, when the market panicked, capital inflows to the north turned negative to exceed 18 billion yuan.
3月20日收盘后，富时罗素如期提升A股纳入因子，通常纳入因子提升会为A股带来资金流入。
After closing on March 20, FTSE Russell was on schedule to factor in A-shares, often including factor hikes that bring in capital inflows to A-shares.
而在本周，北向资金却在撤退。
This week, however, the north retreated.
数据显示，2月25日，北向资金净流入48.31亿元，两个交易日合计净流出135.36亿元。
On February 25, the figures showed a net inflow of 4.831 billion yuan to the north and a combined net outflow of 13.536 billion yuan for both trading days.
从行业上看，广发证券统计数据显示，截至2月21日，北向资金2月以来合计净流入409亿元，其净流入规模排前5位的行业是食品饮料、医药生物、电气设备、计算机、休闲服务，净流出前5位行业则为电子、建筑材料、钢铁、综合、家用电器。
In terms of industry, Guangfa Securities statistics show that as of February 21, the total net inflow to the north since February was 40.9 billion yuan, with the top five sectors being food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, electrical equipment, computers and leisure services, while the top five sectors in terms of net outflows were electronics, building materials, steel, composite and household appliances.
从2月26日A股市场资金流向看，机构资金从电子、计算机等行业撤离，散户则在继续买入。
From February 26 A-share market funds flow to see, institutional funds from electronics, computers and other industries to withdraw, retail investors continue to buy.
但仍有私募基金人士表示，今年的科技成长主线不会因疫情的发生而改变，全年的主线就是科技、成长、创新。
But there are still private fund people said that this year's technology growth mainline will not change due to the outbreak, the main line of the year is technology, growth, innovation.
兴业证券首席策略分析师王德伦此前表示，本此疫情对市场可能也会有两轮影响，第一轮是对于风险偏好的影响，节后首日基本完成，第二轮影响可能是对经济基本面的影响，继而对市场形成制约。
Wang Darren, chief strategy analyst at Societe Generale Securities, said the outbreak could also have two rounds of effects on the market, with the first round on risk appetite, the first day after the holiday and the second on economic fundamentals, which could then constrain the market.
“目前，市场上多数投资者尚没有对经济数据下滑到什么程度有清晰的估计，下月中旬将陆续公布一月、二月的重要经济数据，投资者将面临巨大心理预期差冲击。
"Most investors in the market do not yet have a clear estimate of the extent of the downturn in economic data and will be reporting important economic data for January and February next month, with investors facing a huge psychological shock."
要关注这一时间点的市场反应。
Focus on the market response at this point in time.
如果没有出现大跌，则基本可以判断股市经历了此次疫情冲击的考验。
If there is no big drop, the stock market can be judged by the impact of the epidemic.
”中信建投首席经济学家张岸元提醒。
Mr Cheung, chief economist at Citic Capital, cautioned.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情蔓延终结华尔街牛市？A股震荡仍未结束。
Outbreak ends Wall Street bull market? A-share shock is still not over.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情蔓延终结华尔街牛市？A股震荡仍未结束";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情持续在中国境外蔓延会恶化市场情绪，美欧股市最近两天持续下跌与此有关。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
展望未来，资本市场持续上行的希望在于：中国疫情防控企稳，世界其他地区迅速协调行动";。
Looking ahead, the hope that capital markets will continue to rise is that prevention and control of the Chinese epidemic has stabilized and that the rest of the world has quickly coordinated its efforts.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
