山东半岛严防境外疫情回流，暂未见“韩流”来袭。
Shandong Peninsula strictly prevent the return of the disease abroad, not yet "Han Liu" attack.
马霖 等。
Mr Ma etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
青岛、威海等城市并未出现传闻中“大批韩国人来华躲避疫情”的现象，但山东各地已经相继采取措施，防止在韩国愈演愈烈的疫情波及山东半岛文 |《财经》记者 马霖 杨立赟 陈亮 吴琼 编辑 | 余乐近期新冠疫情在韩国蔓延，确诊人数已从一周前的35人猛增至2月26日中午的1146人。
Qingdao, Weihai and other cities have not reported "large numbers of Koreans fleeing the epidemic," but measures have been taken throughout Shandong to prevent the epidemic from spreading to Shandong Peninsula. Caijing reporter Ma Lin Liangyun Chen Liang-yuk has recently spread to South Korea, where the number of confirmed cases jumped from 35 a week ago to 1,146 at noon on February 26.
随着韩国疫情暴发，与韩国地理位置接近、且有大量人员和商务往来的山东青岛、烟台、威海，以及东北地区的大连、延吉等城市开始感受到了防控疫情回流的新压力。
With the outbreak in South Korea, Qingdao, Yantai, Weihai in Shandong Province, Dalian and Yanji in Northeast China, which are close to South Korea and have a large number of people and businesses, are beginning to feel the new pressure to control the return of the epidemic.
这也是新冠疫情从武汉出现以来，中国大陆第一次面临疫情自境外回流的风险。
This is also the first time since the emergence of the new crown outbreak from Wuhan, mainland China faces the risk of backflow from abroad.
近日来，网上接连爆出“首尔至青岛机票暴涨”、“大批韩国人涌入中国躲避疫情”等传闻。
In recent days, a spate of online rumors have sprung up about the "Seoul-Qingdao airfare boom" and "mass influx of South Koreans fleeing the epidemic in China."
《财经》记者多方采访了解到，近几日从韩国到山东半岛各城市的航班乘客人数确有明显增长，但大多数乘客均为中国公民，并未出现“大批韩国人躲避疫情”的现象。
Indeed, the number of passengers on flights from South Korea to Shandong Peninsula cities has increased markedly in recent days, according to Caijing, but most of the passengers are Chinese citizens and there has been no "exodus of South Koreans fleeing the epidemic."
而且，机票价格的增长也与航班减少等因素有关。
Moreover, the increase in ticket prices is also related to factors such as the reduction of flights.
《财经》记者了解到，由于威海等城市已宣布“所有入境人员一律隔离14天”或类似的严厉管控措施，已有部分原准备前往这些城市的韩国人退掉机票，改变了计划。
As Weihai and other cities have announced "14 days of quarantine for all incoming personnel" or similar stringent controls, some South Koreans who were planning to travel to these cities have withdrawn their tickets and changed their plans, Caijing said.
接受《财经》记者采访的多位韩国人和在韩的中国人也都表示，不会为了躲避疫情而跑到中国。
Many South Koreans and Chinese in South Korea interviewed by Caijing said they would not travel to China to escape the outbreak.
但是，新冠病毒的传播和扩散并不会区分国籍。
However, the spread and spread of the new crown virus does not distinguish between nationalities.
由于由韩国入境人员确实有所增长，青岛、威海等城市面临的境外疫情回流风险是切实存在的。
Due to the fact that the number of people entering the Republic of Korea has increased, Qingdao, Weihai and other cities face a real risk of backflow from the overseas epidemic.
为此，各城市近两天相继采取各种措施，加强了对入境人员的监测和管理力度。
To this end, over the past two days, cities have taken various measures to strengthen the monitoring and management of people entering the country.
入境人员八成为中国人根据携程提供给《财经》的机票数据，从首尔飞青岛、烟台、威海、大连这几个城市，2月25日当天相较2月19日当天的出行人次增长了近三倍；就机票价格看，2月25日相较2月19日的平均机票价格增长了近六成。
The number of trips from Seoul to Qingdao, Yantai, Weihai and Dalian on Feb. 25 was nearly three times higher than February 19 and nearly 60 percent higher on February 25 than on February 19, according to data provided to Caijing by Chinese nationals.
仅2月24日一天，首尔飞往上述四个中国城市的预订量就比前一天增长了近六成，出行人次也增长超过五成。
On Feb. 24 alone, Seoul's bookings for the four Chinese cities were up nearly 60% from the previous day, and the number of trips rose by more than 50%.
与此同时，根据携程平台的机票数据，中国飞往韩国2月15日-2月24日的订单量下降了超过五成，对应出行人次也下降超过五成。
Meanwhile, orders for flights to South Korea from Feb. 15 to Feb. 24 fell by more than 50% and the corresponding number of trips fell by more than 50%, according to Ctrip data.
去哪儿网平台数据显示，从2月17日至2月24日，韩国有首尔、釜山、清州、济州岛、大邱与国内各城市有航班往来。
From February 17 to February 24, Seoul, Busan, Qingzhou, Jeju Island and Daegu have flights to and from various cities in the country, according to data from the Web platform.
其中票量呈上升状态的只有首尔和大邱两个航点，且疫情最为严重的大邱飞往国内的机票每天未突破两位数。
Seoul and Taegu were the only two places where the numbers were up, and Daegu, the worst hit, did not break double digits a day.
来自多个渠道的信息证明，近期韩国飞往中国的航班价格上涨，亦有此前受新冠疫情影响，各大航空公司均减少了往来中国航班的原因，并不完全由韩国疫情爆发导致。
The recent rise in the price of flights to China and the earlier outbreak of the new crown have led airlines to reduce the number of flights to and from China, according to multiple sources, and not all have been caused by the outbreak.
中国往返韩国的航班总量大，但自疫情发生后，各航空公司取消了多数班次，航班执行率仅在20%左右。
China has a large number of flights to and from South Korea, but since the outbreak, airlines have cancelled most flights, with a flight execution rate of only about 20 per cent.
由于受到疫情的影响，韩国自2月4日也出台一系列关于中国公民的签证优惠收紧的政策。
As a result of the outbreak, South Korea since February 4 also introduced a series of Chinese citizens visa tightening policy.
虽然这一情况在2月17日得到缓解，航班执行率仍因国内需求没有恢复而无法得到有效提升。
Although the situation eased on 17 February, flight implementation rates continued to be hampered by a lack of recovery in domestic demand.
大量航班没有恢复，突然的需求上涨导致航班价格瞬间攀升。
A large number of flights did not resume, and sudden increases in demand caused flight prices to skyrocket.
2月25日，首尔至青岛单程航线航班含税价格一度破万。
February 25, Seoul to Qingdao one-way flight including tax prices once broke the ten thousand.
这对于去年同期成交价格在500-700元来说可谓“天价”。
For the same period last year, the transaction price of 500-700 yuan can be described as "sky-high."
（2月25日，首尔至青岛航线单程直飞航班，当日下午1:13搜索去哪儿网含税价格为3347元，是去年同期418元的8倍。
(On February 25, a one-way direct flight from Seoul to Qingdao. The search price for the Internet included 3347 yuan, eight times the amount of 418 yuan in the same period last year.
）“不过，这一价格在半小时后就已看不到。
"" But the price won't be there for half an hour.
2月25日一班晚上9点起飞的航班，最低含税价格在3400元左右。
The minimum tax rate for a flight leaving at 9: 00 p.m. on Feb. 25 is around 3,400 yuan.
”去哪儿网相关负责人说。
"said the person in charge of the website.
2月26日、27日起飞的该航线航班，能够购买到低于2000元的含税直飞机票。
The flights, which take off on February 26 and 27, will be able to purchase direct tax-free tickets of less than 2,000 yuan.
随着恐慌情绪的缓解，不少航班的价格已在向下调整。
As panic subsided, the prices of a number of flights were already moving downward.
“例如2月26日中午13:05起飞的KE861航班，2月25日12:36搜索时价格是4100元含税，到14:16时搜索已经降至3650元。
"For example, flight KE861, which took off at 13: 05 noon on February 26, was priced at 4,100 including taxes at 12: 36 on February 25, and the search was down to 3,650 yuan at 14: 16.
”上述人员称，“疫情尚未结束，价格忽高忽低的情况仍会出现。
"The epidemic is not over yet and prices will continue to fluctuate," these people said.
”（随着恐慌情绪的缓解，2月25日下午，不少航班的价格在向下调整。
(As panic subsided, the prices of a number of flights fell on the afternoon of February 25.
）据“青岛发布”的消息，疫情发生前，青岛机场的韩国航线日均进港航班21个，进港旅客3622人。
Before the outbreak, Qingdao airport had an average of 21 daily inbound flights and 3,622 inbound passengers, according to Qingdao News.
近期的日均进港航班只有6个架次，进港旅客800人次左右，客座率达85%-90%。
In recent days, the average daily number of inbound flights was only 6, with about 800 inbound passengers and an attendance rate of 85% -90%.
在进港旅客中，中国籍旅客超过80%，韩籍旅客不到20%。
Of the inbound passengers, more than 80 percent are Chinese and less than 20 percent are Korean.
韩籍旅客大都在中国工作或求学，以产业人士和学生为主。
The majority of Korean tourists work or study in China, mainly industry figures and students.
山东航空也回复《财经》记者称，目前山东航空韩国飞中国的航班，中国旅客占比80%左右。
Shandong Airlines also responded to "Caijing" reporter, Shandong Airlines Korea flight to China, China accounted for about 80% of the total.
目前山东航空在韩国登机时要对乘客进行体温检测，有症状不允许登机。
Shandong Airlines is currently boarding in the Republic of Korea to check the temperature of passengers, symptoms are not allowed to board.
2月25日起，机组执行完首尔航班后会采取居家隔离措施。
From February 25, the unit will carry out flights in Seoul after the home isolation measures.
至于后续航班是否会取消？山东航空表示，首先要根据政府要求，其次要看市场需求。
As for whether follow-up flights will be canceled, Shandong Airlines said, first, according to the government, and secondly, depending on market demand.
目前韩国来中国航班中中国旅客占比80%，说明市场有需求。
At present, the proportion of Chinese tourists on flights from South Korea to China is 80%, which indicates the market demand.
除非政府明确说停航，在当下市场有需求的情况下，山航还是会保有合适的航班量。
Unless the government says it is grounded, it will keep the right number of flights if the market demands it.
一位经常往返于中韩两国的中国籍女士也告诉《财经》记者，近期从韩国坐飞机到青岛、威海、烟台等地的大部分是中国人。
A Chinese woman, who travels to and from China and South Korea, also told Caijing that most of the recent flights from South Korea to Qingdao, Weihai and Yantai were Chinese.
她说，很多长期居住在韩国的中国人，因为签证原因，需要定期出（韩国）境。
She said many Chinese long-term residents in South Korea need to leave the country regularly for visa reasons.
这些人一般会选择青岛、威海入境，因为机票便宜，可以当天往返，方便他们办理出入境手续。
These people will generally choose Qingdao, Weihai entry, because the cheap air tickets, can be the same day round trip, to facilitate their entry and exit procedures.
这位女士表示，机票涨价还有另外一个原因：大韩航空有一位客舱乘务员确诊，因此中国旅客最近都希望选择中国的航空公司，这也造成了中国航司的票价进一步上涨。
The woman said there was another reason for the increase: a Korean Airlines flight attendant confirmed that Chinese passengers had recently sought to choose a Chinese carrier, which also contributed to higher ticket prices for the Chinese shipping department.
“韩流来袭”言过其实最近几天，“韩国人大批涌入”的传闻已经让山东半岛的居民产生了一些恐慌情绪。
"Hanliu attack" exaggerated in recent days, "South Korean influx" rumors have caused some panic among residents of Shandong Peninsula.
烟台是很多韩国人士选择工作定居的一座山东城市。
Yantai is a Shandong city where many Koreans choose to live and work.
25日，当地小区业主微信群里流传一张烟台黄海城市花园业主群的截图，是否真实暂时不详，群里有业主表示小区外有人未进小区门就被隔离，对韩国人士返回小区感到紧张。
25, local small district owners micro-letter group spread a screenshot of the Yantai Huanghai City Garden owners, whether true temporarily unknown, the group of owners said that people outside the residential area before entering the cell door was isolated, the South Koreans return to the community feel nervous.
《财经》记者联系到一位该小区业主，该业主表示，这座小区里居住了比较多韩国人士，自己家楼上邻居也是一家韩国人，她表示没有听说有韩国人士疑似或感染新冠肺炎。
The owner of the small district, who was contacted by Caijing, said there were more South Koreans living in the neighborhood and her neighbour, a South Korean, said she had not heard of any South Korean suspected or infected.
一位烟台居民向《财经》记者表示，由于不掌握可靠信息，看到一些微信群里转发韩国人士比较集中的小区的业主和物业聊天截图，以及一些关于疫情传播的无端猜测，会加剧恐慌。
A Yantai resident told Caijing that the lack of reliable information, the sight of owner-occupier and property chat maps in microphone groups relaying information to neighborhoods with a high concentration of South Koreans, as well as unfounded speculation about the spread of the epidemic, could exacerbate the panic, a Yantai resident told Caijing.
她向记者转发烟台开发区科信物业向烟台碧海云天小区业主发布的近期疫情防控提醒，该提醒表示，“近期韩国日本疫情突发严重，从2月23日起有大批从国外返烟人士，碧海云天小区是韩国人聚集小区，连续几天已经多人返回小区。
"The recent outbreak of serious outbreaks in South Korea and Japan, with a large number of people returning from abroad since February 23, and the Bihaiyun District, a Korean-populated community that has returned to the district for several days," she said.
”该提醒也有言辞比较激烈的的部分，如“截止目前政府上级部门还未针对此类人群做出强制隔离命令，物业没有执法权，仅要求居家隔离可能出现的不可控因素太多。
The caveat also has more vehement parts, such as: "So far there has been no compulsory segregation of such people by higher authorities, property has no enforcement power, and there are too many uncontrolled elements that can arise from residential segregation."
”《财经》记者联系科信物业负责人，希望核实该信息，并了解目前是否有疫情上升的风险，对方表示要核实情况，但截至发稿尚未有回复。
Caijing contacted the property manager of Caijing to verify the information and see if there was a risk of an escalation of the outbreak.
据《财经》记者了解，近日进入青岛、烟台等地的韩国籍人士大多属于正常复工。
According to Caijing reporter, recently entered Qingdao, Yantai and other places, most of the Korean people belong to the normal resumption of work.
居住在首尔的《朝鲜经济》（Chosun Biz）杂志编辑吴光镇（Kwang Jin Oh）对《财经》记者表示，目前前往中国山东等地的大多是韩国籍侨民。
Kwang Jin Oh, editor of the Seoul-based magazine Chosun Biz, told Caijing that most of the people who are going to Shandong and other places in China are Korean nationals.
“中国开始复工了，学校要开学了，在中国工作和留学的韩国人也要回中国，大多是中国人。
"China is back to work, schools are about to open, and Koreans working and studying in China are going back to China, mostly Chinese.
”中国韩国商会的一位韩国籍工作人员告诉《财经》记者，商会的下属韩国企业这两天没有反映入境难等问题，也暂未反映其他方面的困难，他了解到之前一些返回中国的韩国人士已经开始上班。
A South Korean staff member of the China South Korean Chamber of Commerce told Caijing that the chamber's South Korean unit had not reported entry difficulties or other difficulties for two days, and he understood that some South Koreans who had previously returned to China had started working.
青岛悦华韩国国际学校的的一位工作人员告诉《财经》记者，韩国也有过年的传统，年前大约一半的韩国家长带着孩子回到韩国过年。
A staff member at the Yue Hua Korea International School in Qingdao told Caijing that South Korea also has a Chinese New Year tradition, with about half the country's parents returning with their children to celebrate the New Year.
往年这个时间，学校已经开学，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，现在学校老师还没上班，学校开学日期未定，还在等待指示。
At this time of the year, schools have reopened, affected by the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, and now teachers are not at work, with no date set for the start of the school year and awaiting instructions.
他表示，从2月25日开始，按照青岛市政府的规定，从韩国飞到青岛的韩国人士将被接到个人家里，或者宾馆隔离。
From February 25, South Koreans who fly to Qingdao from South Korea will be taken to their homes or isolated from hotels, according to the city government.
所以目前有很多韩国人不打算立刻回到中国，2月26日开始会有很多韩国人退机票，“因为回到青岛什么也做不了，直接隔离14天，所以就没必要回来了。
So there are a lot of South Koreans who don't want to go back to China right now, and a lot of South Koreans will return on February 26th. "Because they can't do anything back in Qingdao for 14 days, there's no need to come back.
”针对此前一些中文报道所写的“韩国人来中国躲避疫情”，这位国际学校工作人员表示，他个人感觉这不符合实际情况。
"South Korea came to China to escape from the epidemic," according to some Chinese-language reports earlier, but the international school worker said he felt this was not the case.
山东半岛严防疫情蔓延虽然并没有出现大批韩国人涌入的情况，但山东半岛各城市已经严阵以待。
Shandong Peninsula strictly prevent the spread of the epidemic although there has not been a large influx of South Koreans, but Shandong Peninsula cities have been ready.
2020年2月25日12-24时，山东省无新增新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊病例756例（含重症病例7例，危重症病例7例，治愈出院357例，死亡病例6例），已经少于韩国。
From 12 to 24 hours February 25, 2020, there were no new confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia in Shandong Province, with a cumulative total of 756 confirmed cases (including 7 serious cases, 7 critical cases, 357 cured cases of discharge and 6 cases of death).
累计确诊病例中，青岛有60人，烟台47人，威海38人。
Cumulatively, 60 cases were diagnosed in Qingdao, 47 in Yantai and 38 in Weihai.
目前中国政府尚未发布针对韩国入境人员的禁入或限入措施，但是，青岛、烟台、威海、大连、延吉等中韩人员往来频繁的城市已经各自出台措施，以防止疫情回流。
The Chinese government has yet to issue a ban or restriction on the entry of South Korean nationals, but cities such as Qingdao, Yantai, Weihai, Dalian and Yanji have each put in place measures to prevent a return of the epidemic.
例如，威海要求从2月25日起，对从日本、韩国等国家来威海的入境人员，包括外籍人员和中方人员，全部统一接到宾馆免费集中居住，14天后解除集中居住。
From February 25, Wei Hai, for example, demanded that all foreign nationals, including foreign nationals and Chinese nationals, arriving in Weihai from Japan and South Korea be unified and housed free of charge in hotels.
据央视报道，2月25日上午由韩国仁川飞抵威海的济州航空7C8501航班上，发现有五名乘客体温异常。
Five passengers were found to have abnormal body temperatures on Feb. 25 morning aboard Jeju Airlines flight 7C8501 in Incheon, South Korea, CCTV reported.
这五名乘客已送至医院进行医学诊治和观察，本次航班其余乘客均由大巴车统一送至指定酒店集中医学观察。
The five passengers were taken to the hospital for medical treatment and observation, and the rest of the passengers were transported by bus to designated hotels for intensive medical observation.
山东有10家收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，负责收治青岛患者的医院有青岛大学附属医院、青岛市胸科医院，负责收治烟台、威海患者的是烟台市奇山医院，又称烟台传染病医院。
There are 10 designated hospitals in Shandong for treating patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia. The hospitals in charge of treating patients in Qingdao include Qingdao University Hospital, Qingdao Chest Hospital, and Yantai Qishan Hospital, also known as Yantai Infectious Disease Hospital.
烟台市奇山医院管理宣传事务的一位王姓科长告诉《财经》记者，因为韩国人士刚刚开始返程，目前烟台还未出现突发情况，医院目前没感觉到疫情有增加，她还表示，自己目前不了解医院有没有接触到外籍患者。
A Wang surnamed section chief of the Qishan Hospital management and publicity service in Yantai told Caijing that because South Koreans have just returned, there have been no outbreaks in Yantai, hospitals are not aware of any increase in cases, and she said she does not know if the hospital is in contact with foreign patients.
《财经》记者拨打青岛市两家定点医院的电话，青岛市胸科医院总机人员提供了宣传科电话号码，但记者拨打该电话号码，显示该电话号码不存在。
Caijing called two designated hospitals in Qingdao, and the telephone number of the propaganda section was provided by the switchboard of Qingdao Chest Hospital, but the reporter called the number and indicated that it did not exist.
另一家青岛大学附属医院的电话无人接听。
The other Qingdao University Hospital's phone was not answered.
位于威海市大连路的威海汤泊温泉度假村，是被当地政府征用、隔离韩国来华人员的酒店之一。
Weihai Topaz Resort, located at Dalian Road in Weihai, is one of the hotels requisitioned and isolated by the local government.
OTA平台上的信息显示，这是一家豪华型酒店，共有450间房，温泉套房的价格超过800元。
According to information on the OTA platform, this is a luxury hotel with 450 rooms and hot spring suites for more than 800 yuan.
酒店工作人员对《财经》记者称，酒店只负责将一日三餐送到护士手上，由护士分发给隔离人员，具体的防疫工作由政府人员和医护人员完成，酒店不直接接触隔离人员。
Hotel staff told Caijing that the hotel is only responsible for delivering three meals a day to nurses, who distribute them to quarantine personnel. The specific vaccination work is carried out by government personnel and medical personnel, and the hotel does not have direct contact with the quarantine personnel.
他不清楚具体的隔离人数。
He did not know the exact number of persons isolated.
“酒店从上个月开始被征收，除了韩国过来的人，也隔离本地人员。
"Hotels have been expropriated since last month, and people from South Korea have been quarantined," he said.
”这名员工称，该酒店目前没有对外营业，一半员工上班，另一半休假。
The employee said the hotel was not open for business, with half of its staff on duty and the other half on leave.
根据威海当地酒店从业者的说法，被征用隔离韩国来华人员的基本是温泉度假酒店，另一家被提及的是威海天沐温泉度假区。
According to local hotel operators in Weihai, spa resorts are the primary source of segregation for South Koreans, while another is referred to as the Weihai Bathing Hot Springs Resort.
《财经》记者致电，该酒店前台电话无人接听，在OTA上显示“满房”。
"Caijing" reporter called, the hotel receptionist phone unattended, in OTA display "full room."
靠近青岛中韩小商品城的花溪花园酒店，近日也被政府征用接待韩国来华人员。
Flower Creek Garden Hotel near Qingdao, China and South Korea Commodity City, was recently requisitioned by the government to receive Korean visitors to China.
“只有通过政府办好完整的手续，我们才可以接待，自己上门的韩国人是不可以接待的。
"Only through the government to complete the complete formalities, we can receive, the door-to-door Koreans are not allowed to receive.
”该酒店一名工作人员对《财经》记者称，目前尚未接到入住隔离的韩国来华人员。
A staff member at the hotel told Caijing that there had been no isolated arrivals from South Korea.
公开资料显示，花溪花园酒店共有123个房间，定位为舒适型酒店，距离青岛流亭国际机场仅500米，距中韩小商品城仅两公里。
A total of 123 rooms are located at the Huaxi Garden Hotel, just 500 meters from Qingdao Pavilion International Airport and just two kilometers from China and South Korea's Small Commodities City, according to open sources.
出于防疫和统一部署的考虑，青岛市黄岛区灵山卫街道文明办和派出所要求下辖酒店不得接收日韩客人，如有日韩客人到店一律禁止入内，并留住客人在门外不让离开，酒店立即联系街道人员。
For the sake of epidemic prevention and uniform deployment, Qingdao District Lingshan Wei Street civilized office and police stations under the jurisdiction of the hotel is not allowed to accept Japanese and South Korean guests, if all Japanese and South Korean guests to the store, and to retain guests outside the door not to leave the hotel immediately contact street personnel.
青岛威斯汀酒店、威海铂丽斯国际大酒店的前台人员均称，目前暂时不接待韩国来华人员。
The front desk staff of Qingdao Westin Hotel and Weihai Platinum Liss International Hotel all said they were not receiving Korean visitors to China for the time being.
韩国民众：不会到中国来躲疫情据韩国外交部2月24日发布的消息，随着新冠疫情在韩国蔓延，共有15个国家和地区禁止来自韩国的人员入境或加强入境管理措施，包括以色列、英国、澳门等。
15 countries and regions, including Israel, the United Kingdom and Macao, have banned entry into South Korea or tightened immigration controls following the outbreak of the new crown in South Korea, the Foreign Ministry said Tuesday.
2月24日晚间，中国香港特区政府发布公告，自2月25日6时开始限制从韩国来港的非香港居民入境香港。
On the evening of February 24, the Hong Kong SAR Government issued a notice restricting the entry into Hong Kong of non-Hong Kong residents from the Republic of Korea from 0600 hours on February 25.
2月25日，日本政府也敲定方案，将禁止曾去过韩国大邱、庆尚北道的外国人入境日本。
On February 25, the Japanese government also finalised a plan to bar foreigners who had been to Daegu and Gyeongshan provinces in South Korea from entering Japan.
韩国外交部长官康京和在2月25日表示，各国基于对疫情形势的自行评估采取措施，韩方本无权干涉，但采取措施也应该顾及韩方在国内付出的努力，以来自韩国为由无条件禁止入境的做法是断然难以接受的。
South Korean Foreign Minister Kyung-wha Kang said on Feb. 25 that the ROK had no right to intervene because of the self-assessment of the situation, but the measures should also take into account the efforts made by the ROK at home.
韩国外交部会在认定有关国家政府采取过当措施时提出抗议。
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs protested when it was determined that the Government had taken disproportionate measures.
吴光镇说，近日韩国大邱疫情爆发，像是疫情初期的武汉，因此有在韩华人想提前回到中国。
Wu said the recent outbreak of Daegu in South Korea, such as the early stage of the outbreak in Wuhan, so Chinese in South Korea want to return to China early.
但对于韩国人来说，虽然有些恐慌，还没有达到要“离开祖国”的程度。
But for South Koreans, though panicked, it has not yet reached the point of "leaving the country."
近两日起，韩国许多企业也开始要求员工在家办公。
Since the last two days, many companies in South Korea have also begun to require employees to work from home.
在韩定居的中国姑娘刘晓薇（化名）亦对《财经》记者表示，大部分赴华的都是中国人。
Liu Xiaomei (not her real name), a Chinese girl who has settled in South Korea, also told Caijing that most people coming to China are Chinese.
“韩国护照免签国家很多，韩国人没必要去疫情最严重的的中国。
"There are a lot of non-visa-free countries and there is no need for South Koreans to go to China, where the epidemic is most severe.
”她留意到近日由于两国对疫情处理而引起的纷争和民众之间的仇恨，感到非常着急。
"She noted the recent bickering between the two countries over the handling of the outbreak and resentment among the population.
“我看国内很多网友在纠结威海对于韩国人提供14天免费隔离的事，实际上中国人在韩国隔离也是免费的，还发援助金。
"I think a lot of Chinese netizens are tangled up in Weihai to provide 14 days of free isolation. In fact, Chinese people in South Korea are also free of charge, and grant aid.
给中国留学生提供专门的宿舍，甚至提供连韩国人都买不到的口罩。
Provide special dormitories for Chinese students and even masks that are not available even to Koreans.
”根据韩国KBS电台2月10日报道，韩国政府的援助方案，以4人家庭为准，若被隔离14天以上，将可领取每月123万韩元的援助金，1人家庭可领取45万韩元，2人家庭77万韩元，5人家庭145万韩元。
The South Korean government's aid package, based on four-person families, will receive a monthly stipend of 1.23 million won for 14 days of isolation, 450,000 won for one family, 770,000 won for two families and 1.45 million won for five-member families.
韩国保健福利部表示，外国人以1人家庭标准制定支援金。
According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, foreigners make support payments based on a one-person family standard.
另据韩联社报道，韩国政府决定额外拨款50亿韩元（约合人民币2888万元）用于隔离保护中国留学生和公务员考生免受新冠病毒感染。
Separately, the government decided to allocate an additional 5 billion won (28.88 million yuan) to insulate Chinese students and civil-service candidates from infection by the new crown virus, Kyodo reported.
其中25亿韩元用作隔离14天所需的人工费，15亿用于发放防护口罩等宿舍防疫工作，2亿用于向入境留学生普及防护知识和发放一次性口罩。
Of that amount, 2.5 billion won was spent on labor costs to isolate students for 14 days, 1.5 billion won was spent on immunization of dormitories such as masks, and 200 million was spent on popularizing protection knowledge to foreign students and distributing disposable masks.
一位在中国工作的韩国籍人士向记者表示，自己家在首尔，没有感到很恐慌，生活没有太大变化，就是一些文化活动取消了了，他在中国教韩语，因为学校还没开课，因此现在也不打算回到中国。
A South Korean working in China told reporters his home in Seoul wasn't panicked, that life had not changed much, but that some cultural activities had been cancelled and he was teaching Korean in China because the school was not yet open and therefore did not plan to return to China.
一位在北京大学读书的韩国学生告诉《财经》记者，目前留学生同学们基本上都没回到中国，因为开学延迟了，具体什么时候回来要等学校的开学通知。
A South Korean student studying at Peking University told Caijing that students have not returned to China for the most part because the start of classes has been delayed.
她表示，如果外籍人士必须要回到中国，有专门的酒店给他们隔离，还有免费核酸检测，是一件好事。
If foreigners had to return to China, there would be special hotels to isolate them, and free nucleic acid testing would be a good thing, she said.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
山东半岛严防境外疫情回流，暂未见“韩流”来袭。
Shandong Peninsula strictly prevent the return of the disease abroad, not yet "Han Liu" attack.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "山东半岛严防境外疫情回流，暂未见“韩流”来袭";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "青岛、威海等城市并未出现传闻中“大批韩国人来华躲避疫情”的现象，但山东各地已经相继采取措施，防止在韩国愈演愈烈的疫情波及山东半岛";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
