专访卫健委派武汉第二批专家：为何没发现人传人？。
Interview with the second batch of Wuhan experts appointed by Wei Jian: why did not find human-to-human?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 俞琴 黎诗韵。
Author Yu Qinli's poetry.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
国家卫健委第二批专家组一位成员匿名接受《财经》记者专访时称，当时他们在武汉掌握的信息和材料有限，无法得出新冠病毒“人传人”的结论。
In an interview with Caijing News anonymously, a member of the second group of health experts said they had limited information and materials available in Wuhan at the time to draw the conclusion that the new crown virus could not be passed from person to person.
但公众要求对专家组追责的声音始终存在，他们是否真的尽职尽责了？文 |《财经》记者 俞琴 黎诗韵编辑 | 鲁伟 宋玮2020年1月20日，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士、呼吸病学专家钟南山接受央视《新闻1+1》采访时表示，新冠病毒“肯定人传人”。
But the public demand for accountability has always been there, and are they really doing their job? & # 160; On January 20, Wei Song Wei, leader of the National Fitness and Health Commission's high-level group of experts, academician and cardiologist Zhong Nan-shan, told CCTV News 1 + 1 that the virus was "positively transmitted from person to person."
发现“人传人”，对公众防护、医疗救治，都具有重要意义，1月20日也成为此次疫情防控的重要时间点。
The discovery of "human-to-human transmission" is of great significance for public protection and medical treatment, and January 20 has also become an important point in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
自从2019年12月31日“不明原因肺炎”由武汉市卫健委公开披露以来，新冠病毒是否“人传人”一直是备受关注的话题。
Since December 31, 2019 "unknown causes of pneumonia" by Wuhan Health Commission public disclosure, whether the new crown virus "person-to-person" has been a topic of concern.
2020年1月18日傍晚，84岁的钟南山从广州奔赴武汉，两天后公开病毒“人传人”的信息。
On the evening of January 18, 2020, 84-year-old Zhong Nan Shan traveled from Guangzhou to Wuhan and two days later disclosed the virus's "human-to-human" message.
外界已经知悉，在钟南山之前，先后有两批专家组分别在2019年12月31日、2020年1月8日赴武汉调查，但两批专家均未明确公开提及病毒会“人传人”——2020年1月4日，国家卫健委第一批专家组成员公开表示，“从目前看，未发现明显的人传人证据”；1月10日，又有第二批专家组成员对媒体表示，按病人病情及扩散情况，整体疫情“可防可控”。
Before Zhong Nan Shan, two groups of experts visited Wuhan on December 31, 2019 and January 8, 2020, respectively, but neither team of experts explicitly mentioned the virus as "human-to-human evidence." On January 4, 2020, a second group of experts told the media that the epidemic was "preventable and controllable" depending on the patient's illness and spread.
从后来的疫情暴发来看，上述两批专家的调查结果和公开表态，可能成为疫情防控延误的因素之一。
Judging from the outbreak, the findings and public pronouncements of the two groups of experts may have contributed to the delay in the prevention and control of the outbreak.
因此公众一直在以各种方式追问：为何前两批专家组未能在武汉调查时得出“人传人”的重要结论？《财经》记者近日专访了第二批专家组的一位成员，这名专家于2020年1月8日到武汉，2020年1月下旬离开。
As a result, the public has been asking in various ways why the first two groups of experts were unable to reach important conclusions about "human-to-human transmission" in Wuhan? Caijing recently interviewed a second group of experts who arrived in Wuhan on January 8, 2020 and left in late January 2020.
这位专家要求匿名接受采访，但不反对《财经》点明他曾作为第二批专家组成员的身份。
The expert asked to be interviewed anonymously, but did not object to Caijing naming him as a member of the second panel.
这位专家向《财经》记者强调，当时专家组在武汉掌握的信息和资料有限，无法得出“人传人”的结论。
The expert told Caijing that the expert group had limited information and materials in Wuhan at the time and could not draw the conclusion of "person-to-person".
他表示，“有医务人员感染一定是‘人传人’，而且说明，病毒传染性还非常强”。
"There must be a 'person-to-person' transmission of the infection and it shows that the virus is very infectious," he said.
事后看，当时武汉已经出现了医护人员被感染的病例，但这位专家称，当时专家组并不掌握相关信息。
In hindsight, there were already cases of infection in Wuhan, but the expert said the team did not have the information at the time.
“我们也试图去了解。
"We're trying to understand, too.
”这名专家介绍，在武汉期间，专家组特别注意医务人员有没有感染，“每到一个地方，就问有没有医务人员感染。
While in Wuhan, the expert said the panel paid particular attention to the presence of infections among medical personnel, "and asked if there was any infection among medical staff wherever they went.
”但得到的答复，都是“没有”。
But the answer was "No."
事后来看，专家组当时在武汉了解到的并非全部实情。
In hindsight, not all that the Group learned in Wuhan at the time was true.
但究竟谁向专家组隐瞒了一些医护人员当时已经感染的实情，目前不得而知。
However, it is not known who concealed from the Group the fact that some health-care personnel were infected at the time.
这位专家还表示，第二批专家组到武汉后很多信息都不掌握。
The expert also said that the second group of experts to Wuhan after a lot of information is not available.
“我们就没有看到一个正式的报告，包括这个病是怎么来的、是怎么发现的、做了哪些调查、调查结果是什么、最初发现哪几个病例……这些我们都不掌握。
"We didn't see a formal report, including how the disease came about, how it was discovered, what investigations were made, what were the results of the investigation, what cases were first discovered... we don't have any of these.
后来我们都没办法，基本上就负责临床救治了。
Later we all have no way, basically responsible for the clinical treatment.
”2020年1月16日，第二批专家组回到北京之后组织开会，当时已有专家组成员表示，疫情被低估了。
On January 16, 2020, when a second group of experts returned to Beijing to organize a meeting, Panel members said the outbreak had been underestimated.
即便如此，公众仍然质疑：专家组此前去武汉是否真的做到了“尽职尽责”，是否尽了最大可能了解实情?以下为这位专家接受《财经》记者专访的内容。
Even so, the public still questions whether the group's previous visit to Wuhan was really "doing its part" and doing its best to find out the truth. The expert was interviewed by Caijing.
为何没有发现“人传人”？《财经》：为什么第二批专家组没有发现“人传人”？专家：家庭、社会上传染，再得到确认“人传人”，一定要有一个明确的链条，因为还有可能是共同暴露。
Why is there no "person-to-person"? Caijing: The second group of experts did not find that "human-to-human" experts: family, social infection, and confirmed that "human-to-human", there must be a clear chain, because there may also be common exposure.
但是医务人员不一样，因为他们和病人不可能有共同暴露，不需要分析说，有什么传播链。
But medical personnel are different, because they and the patient cannot have common exposure, do not need to analyze what the transmission chain is.
只要医务人员感染，一定是“人传人”，而且说明，病毒传染性还非常强，因为医务人员一般和病人没有特别密切的接触。
Whenever a medical worker is infected, it must be a "person-to-person" and indicates that the virus is highly contagious, as medical staff generally do not have particularly close contact with patients.
钟南山院士为什么能说“明确人传人”呢？第一，他在广东就已经了解到病毒的传播链了。
Why can academician Zhong Nan Shan say "clear person to person"? First, he already knew the transmission chain of the virus in Guangdong.
在广东有两个病例，没去过武汉，但家人去了武汉后染上了新冠肺炎。
In Guangdong, there are two cases, have not been to Wuhan, but the family went to Wuhan after the new crown pneumonia.
第二，正因为钟院士掌握了病毒的传播链，所以他到了武汉，马上有人跟他报告，有医务人员感染。
Second, because Academician Zhong mastered the transmission chain of the virus, so he went to Wuhan, someone immediately reported to him that there were medical staff infected.
相比之下，尽管当时我们掌握的材料里，也包含了两起家庭聚集性病例，但是，我们并不掌握传播链及医护感染案例，所以就没法得出“人传人”的结论。
By contrast, although two cases of familial agglomeration were included in the data available at the time, we did not have a chain of transmission or a case of medical attention, so we were unable to draw a "person-to-person" conclusion.
《财经》：关于新冠肺炎到底会不会“人传人”，当时专家组讨论过这个问题吗？专家：大家都很困惑。
Caijing: Did the panel of experts discuss whether there will be "human-to-human transmission" of pneumonia at the time? Expert: Everybody is confused.
因为早期，病例多是和华南海鲜市场相关的，常常商贩一家子都在这个市场里面工作，或者经常去这个市场。
Because in the early days, most cases were related to the South China seafood market, where vendors often worked or often visited the market.
所以，一家人感染以后，到底是共同暴露引起的，还是“人传人”引起的？这个问题是不明确的。
So is it unclear whether a family infection is caused by common exposure or by "human-to-human transmission"?
当时我们专家组里，也有人去问疾控系统的专家，对方给出的答复是，没有办法确定“人传人”。
At the time, some of us on the panel went to an expert on the disease control system and were told that there was no way to determine "person to person."
《财经》：第二批专家组去武汉调查，武汉方面提供的资料里，难道没有医护人员是否被感染的信息吗？专家：没有。
Caijing: The second group of experts went to Wuhan to investigate, Wuhan, provided by the data, is there no information whether the medical personnel were infected? Expert: No.
后来根据媒体报道，其实那时候已经发生了医务人员感染的案例。
Later, according to media reports, there had been cases of infection by medical personnel.
同济医院急诊科医生陆俊是2020年1月5日发病的，1月10日住院，1月17日转诊至金银潭医院。
The emergency doctor of Tongji Hospital, Lu Junjun, developed symptoms on January 5, 2020. He was admitted to hospital on January 10 and was referred to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on January 17.
（编者注：据《北京青年报》报道，1月5日晚，30岁的同济医院急诊科医生陆俊出现发热症状，1月10日因“病毒性肺炎”住院，1月17日转至金银潭医院ICU治疗。
(Note to the Beijing Youth Daily) On the night of January 5, Lu Jun, a 30-year-old emergency doctor at Tongji Hospital, developed fever symptoms. He was hospitalized with viral pneumonia on January 10 and transferred to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on January 17 for treatment, the Beijing Youth Daily reported.
陆俊称，自己并不清楚确诊为新冠肺炎的确切日期，但肯定是1月17日转院前确诊。
Lu said he did not know the exact date of the diagnosis, but it must have been confirmed before the hospital was transferred on January 17.
）我们是1月10日以后去的同济医院，当时得到的答复是没有医务人员感染。
) We went to Tongji Hospital after January 10 and were told there were no medical staff infected.
我认为，医务人员的感染情况，应该一个一个地去追，医院报告给谁了，最终这个信息报告到哪儿被阻断了？《财经》：第二批专家组都去了哪些医院？专家：金银潭医院、武汉肺科医院、武汉人民医院、武汉市第一医院、协和医院、同济医院，主要是去他们的发热门诊。
In my opinion, the infection of medical staff should be pursued one by one, to whom was the hospital reported, and where was the information finally blocked? Expert: Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Wuhan Lung Hospital, Wuhan People's Hospital, Wuhan First Hospital, Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital, mainly to their fever clinic.
《财经》：你们去到的所有医院，是否都有亲口询问有没有医护感染？专家：我们特别关心有没有医护人员感染，每一个地方都要问。
Caijing: Do you all go to all the hospitals and ask if there is any medical infection? Expert: We are particularly concerned about whether there is any infection among medical staff.
我们当时听说哪有医务人员感染，都会一个个打电话去问，结果最后得到信息根本不是。
When we heard about medical staff being infected, we would call one by one and ask, only to be told that it wasn't.
医护人员的感染区我们也没看到，谁知道他们在哪。
We didn't see the infection area of the paramedics. Who knows where they are.
这么大的院区，我们怎么去找呢？《财经》：当时陪同专家组的人都有谁？专家：医院和卫健委的人都在。
How can we find such a big courtyard? Caijing: Who were the people who accompanied the expert groupsExpert: The people in the hospital and the health committee were there.
《财经》：医院的人是院长？还是行政人员、医生？专家：有的是院长，有的是医务处主任。
Caijing: Is the person in the hospital the dean, the administrator, the doctor? Expert: Some are the dean, some are the director of the medical service.
《财经》：“人传人”在这种传染病里是最核心的一个要素。
Caijing: "Person-to-person" is the most important factor in the epidemic.
专家：很关键很关键，我们一直怀疑有“人传人”，但就是没有证据。
Expert: It's crucial. We've always suspected that there is "human-to-human", but there's no proof.
《财经》：没有证据是因为他们不提供还是提供的素材不够？专家：没有告诉我们实情，从现在真实的情况看来，他在说谎。
Caijing: Is there no evidence because they didn't provide it or because they didn't provide enough fodder? Expert: They didn't tell us the truth.
专家组不掌握真实情况？《财经》：武汉方面有没有把当时已经掌握的信息完整地告诉专家组？专家：关于第一批专家组和湖北、武汉方面的调查发现，我们没有看到一个正式的报告，包括这个病是怎么发现的、做了哪些调查、调查结果是什么、最初发现哪几个病例……这些我们都不掌握。
Experts: Investigations on the first group of experts and on the situation in Hubei and Wuhan have found that we have not seen a formal report, including how the disease was discovered, what investigations were carried out, what the results of the investigation, what cases were first discovered... We do not have any information at all.
后来我们都没办法，基本上就负责临床救治了。
Later we all have no way, basically responsible for the clinical treatment.
《财经》：为什么会出现这种情况？专家：他们根本不合作，这是最主要的问题。
Caijing: Why does this happen? Expert: They are not cooperative at all, that's the main problem.
比如医务人员感染的事，你哪怕报一个医务人员感染，我们也就意识到它有传染性。
For example, in the case of a medical infection, if you report a medical infection, we realize that it is contagious.
《财经》：那你们后来放弃调查了？专家：不是我们放弃，是不让你管，当时要求属地管理。
Caijing: So you gave up the investigation later? Expert: We didn't give up, we didn't let you take care of it.
我们去了以后，就接到指示，大概内容是：属地管理，地方为主，专家组是帮忙的。
When we went there, we received instructions, presumably, on territorial administration, mainly local, with the help of the Group of Experts.
后来，湖北、武汉各自有自己的专家组，对病人的救治，主要由他们负责。
Later, Hubei, Wuhan have their own expert group, the treatment of patients, mainly by them.
我们主要的任务，一个是当时接待港澳台的代表团，另外一个是，我们去发热门诊了解情况。
One of our main tasks was to receive delegations from Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. The other was to go to the fever clinic for information.
《财经》：让你们帮忙？你们帮上忙了吗？专家：那最简单的道理，我让你把病例都报出来，你怎么不报呢？《财经》：武汉方面听取了你们的建议和意见吗？专家：病原找到后，在发布消息以前，专家组成员和地方上开过一次会。
Caijing: Can you help me? Expert: The simplest truth is, why don't you report the caseCaijing: Wuhan listened to your suggestion and adviceExpert: After the pathogen was found, there was a meeting between the expert group members and the local people before the news was released.
我们实际上讨论的是，到底有多少病例？在武汉提供的病例资料里面，有41例是实验室检测结果确诊的，除了这一批病例外，还有一批是没有经过实验室检测的疑似病例。
We are actually talking about the number of cases, 41 of which were confirmed by laboratory tests in Wuhan, and in addition to these, there are a number of suspected cases that have not been tested in the laboratory.
关于发布什么样的病例，这在当时是有争论的。
It was a matter of debate at the time what kind of cases were published.
我们专家组一致的意见是，疑似的、确诊的都要报出来，我们临走前都说好了。
The unanimous opinion of our group of experts is that all suspected and confirmed cases should be reported, and we agreed before we left.
但是第二天见报不是这样。
But not the next day.
新闻出来，地方上报出来的是41例，仅仅是实验室方法确诊的一批人。
News out, the local reported 41 cases, just a laboratory method of diagnosis of a group of people.
背后的那些事情，我就不懂了。
I don't understand the things behind it.
（编者注：武汉市卫健委1月11日发布通报称，在“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”病原体初步判定为新型冠状病毒之后，武汉卫健委组织对现有患者标本进行检测，截至1月10日24时，初步诊断有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例41例，其中重症7例、死亡1例，其余患者病情稳定。
(Note: Wuhan Health Committee issued a notice on January 11, after the "unknown cause of viral pneumonia" pathogen was initially identified as the new coronavirus, Wuhan Health Commission organized the testing of existing patient specimens, as of 2400 hours January 10, a preliminary diagnosis of the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia 41 cases, 7 of which are serious, 1 death, the rest stable.
）《财经》：当时你看到的疑似病例患者有多少？专家：具体我记不住了。
) Caijing: How many suspected cases did you see back then? Expert: I can't remember exactly.
可以肯定的是，我当时看到的疑似病例数目大于确诊病例数目。
To be sure, the number of suspected cases I saw at the time was greater than the number of confirmed cases.
《财经》：假如当时把疑似的数目也公布了，公众的警惕性也会更高一些吗？专家：情况就是这样。
Caijing: Would the public have been more vigilant had the suspected amount been released? Expert: That's the way it goes.
《财经》：在你们之前，第一批专家已经去过武汉。
Caijing: Before you, the first experts have been to Wuhan.
为什么还要组织第二批专家去武汉？专家：他们待的时间太长了。
Why organize a second group of experts to Wuhan? Expert: They stayed too long.
他们在那过的元旦。
They spent New Year's Day there.
《财经》：第二批专家组和第一批专家组，是怎么交接的？专家：他们跟我们简单介绍了一下情况，主要是在病例的交接上。
Caijing: How did the second and first batch of experts hand over? Expert: They briefed us on the situation, mainly on the handover of cases.
大家了解下基本情况，就完了。
We all know the basics, and that's it.
我们的重点是，看金银潭医院、武汉市肺科医院，指导他们治疗。
Our focus is to see the gold and silver pool hospital, Wuhan City lung hospital, to guide their treatment.
《财经》：当时对于新冠肺炎病毒有没有一个初步的判断？专家：它肯定和SARS不是一个病毒，因为我得到的信息，两者同源性只有70%多，把它归到SARS是不对的。
Caijing: Was there a preliminary verdict on the new crown pneumonia virus? Expert: It must not be a virus like SARS, because the information I got was more than 70% of the same origin, and it was wrong to classify it as SARS.
另外从我们当时看到的病例，确实比SARS的重病例少，这是没有问题的，到现在更加证实了。
It is also true that the number of cases we saw at the time was lower than the number of serious cases of SARS, which is not a problem and is even more so now.
另外，有死亡，但是死亡不多，当时41例确诊案例当中有一例。
In addition, there were deaths, but not many, in one of the 41 confirmed cases.
《财经》：之后你们和第三批专家组，怎么做的交接？专家：我没见到钟南山院士。
Caijing: How do you and the third group of experts make the transition? Expert: I haven't seen the academician Zhong Nan Shan.
第二批专家组成员回来后，到国家卫健委开会，要对疫情判断。
The second group of experts returned to the National Health Committee to meet to judge the epidemic situation.
当时有成员就说，疫情被低估了。
At the time, some members said that the epidemic had been underestimated.
我印象中，第二天卫健委态度变了，已经开始重视了。
I have the impression that the next day health care committee attitude has changed, has begun to pay attention to.
《财经》：相比“人传人”的问题，当时第二批专家组得出的“可防可控”结论引起了更大争议。
Caijing: The second group of experts came up with a more controversial "preventable controllable" conclusion than the "human-to-human" issue.
专家：当时专家组掌握的情况确实是可防可控。
Expert: The information available to the Panel at the time was indeed preventable and controllable.
41个病人你说可防不可防，可控不可控？主要的问题不是说可防可控的问题，这个病现在看肯定是可防可控，你们把这个要写清楚，就是可防可控，不是说让它不防不控。
The main problem is not that it is preventable or controllable, but that the disease is certainly preventable and controllable. If you write this clearly, you can control it, not let it go unchecked.
到今天我们防住了吗？控住了吗？问题是让你防让你控，你不防不控，那是谁的责任？所有的病如果不防不控它能控制住吗？不防不控是今天造成的这个恶果，而不是说可防和可控这个观念造成的。
Did we stop today? Control? The problem is let you guard against you, you do not control, who is responsible? All the disease if unchecked can control it? Unchecked is caused today by this evil, not by the idea of preventable and controllable.
《财经》：今天来看，你认为他们为什么要隐瞒信息？专家 ：那我不知道，那你可以问他们去，谁知道，我们不擅自猜测别人。
Caijing: Today, why do you think they are hiding information? Expert: Well, I don't know, so you can ask them to go.
我相信在北京不是这样，在广东也不是这样，在其他地方可能都不会是这样。
I do not believe so in Beijing, nor in Guangdong, and probably not elsewhere.
你看现在的防控就知道了。
You can tell from the controls we have now.
《财经》：如果他们当时跟你说了实际的情况（医护感染），今天的情况会有所不同吗？专家：如果他们说了医护人员感染，那就不是说有限的“人传人”了，就能肯定明确“人传人”。
Caijing: Would things have been different today if they had told you the actual situation [healthcare infection]? Expert: If they said healthcare professionals are infected, then not just limited "person-to-person" can be certain.
《财经》：第三批专家组过去的时候，为什么他们能够看到明确“人传人”的证据？专家：发展到那个程度，他捂不住了，那不就暴露出来了吗？从钟院士的讲话来讲，有医务人员感染，这是很重要的证据。
Expert: When he reached that stage, he could not keep his head above it.Caijing: From the remarks of the academician, there was an infection of the medical staff, which is very important evidence.
如果当初告诉我们有医务人员感染，我们肯定对疫情的判断就是另一码事。
If we had been told that there were medical staff infected, we would have judged the epidemic differently.
《财经》：武汉方面当时一直称没有医护人员感染，作为专家组，你们就没有怀疑过这一点吗？专家：我们当然怀疑，但是这个怀疑没有用。
Caijing: Wuhan always claimed that there were no medical staff infected, as a group of experts, you do not doubt this? Expert: Of course we doubt, but this doubt is useless.
我们听说（医护感染）消息，就联系院方，因为不知道具体是哪个医生，联系完了人家不跟你说，不跟你说实话。
We hear about it, just contact the hospital, because we don't know which doctor it is. They don't talk to you and tell you the truth.
我们也没办法，因为很明确是属地管理，我们接到的这个指示是地方为主，国家专家组帮忙、指导、辅助。
We have no choice either, as it is clearly territorial management, and we have been instructed to do so locally, with the help, guidance and assistance of national teams of experts.
《财经》：既然有怀疑，为什么没有直接向当地的政府或者医院发问？专家：当时我们讨论的时候，我们让他如实报。
Caijing: If you have doubts, why didn't you ask the local government or the hospital directly? Expert: When we discussed it, we asked him to tell him the truth.
卫健委的领导当场就说了，他说，“你们是不是怀疑我瞒报啊？”他公开反问我们，专家组的都在场。
The Wei health committee leader said on the spot, he said, "Do you doubt that I hide?" He asked us openly, the expert group are present.
他都这么说了我们还能说什么？《财经》：听到这句话，专家组心里是什么感觉？专家：你不应该找我们，你应该找找那个领导层去了解。
What else can we sayCaijing: What's the feeling in the group of experts when they hear thisExpert: You shouldn't come to us, you should look to the leadership to find out.
现在这个卫健委的人已经被免职了。
Now the bodyguard has been removed from his post.
（注：2月10日，湖北省委常委会决定：免去张晋的湖北省卫生健康委员会党组书记职务；免去刘英姿的湖北省卫生健康委员会主任职务；上述两职务，由新到任的湖北省委常委王贺胜兼任。
(Note: On February 10, the Standing Committee of the Hubei Provincial Committee decided to remove Zhang Jin from the post of secretary of the Hubei Provincial Health Committee and Liu Yingzi from the post of director of the Hubei Provincial Health Committee.
）【版权声明】本文由财经杂志授权腾讯新闻独家发布，未经腾讯公司许可，任何平台不得转载。
This article is authorized by Finance magazine to release Tencent News exclusively. No platform may be reproduced without Tencent's permission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访卫健委派武汉第二批专家：为何没发现人传人？。
Interview with the second batch of Wuhan experts appointed by Wei Jian: why did not find human-to-human?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访卫健委派武汉第二批专家：为何没发现人传人？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "国家卫健委第二批专家组一位成员匿名接受《财经》记者专访时称，当时他们在武汉掌握的信息和材料有限，无法得出新冠病毒“人传人”的结论。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in an anonymous interview with Caijing & amp; Co., a second group of NHS specialists, a member of its second group said in an interview with Caijing anonymously that they had limited information and materials available in Wuhan at the time to draw a conclusion about the new crown virus.
但公众要求对专家组追责的声音始终存在，他们是否真的尽职尽责了？";。
But public calls for accountability to the Panel persist, and have they really done their job?;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
