229家A股公司年报推迟披露 ，多家湖北企业考虑延期。
229 annual reports of A-shares companies delayed disclosure, many Hubei enterprises consider postponing.
张建锋 王颖。
Zhang Jianfeng Wang Ying.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情不仅严重影响了企业复工，多家A股公司年报披露也因此延期。
The outbreak not only seriously affected the resumption of work, a number of A-share companies annual report disclosure also delayed.
作为此次疫情重灾区，湖北省内上市公司年报披露所受影响正逐步显现文 |《财经》记者 张建锋 王颖编辑 |陆玲突然袭来的新型冠状病毒，不仅严重影响了企业复工，多家A股公司年报披露也因此延期。
As the worst affected area, the annual report disclosure of listed companies in Hubei Province is gradually showing up. & # 160; The sudden arrival of a new coronavirus by Caijing reporter Zhang Jianfeng Wang Ying has not only severely affected the resumption of work, but also delayed the disclosure of annual reports of a number of A-share companies.
“我们公司年报原计划披露时间为3月底，但受疫情影响，现在审计师进场需要隔离14天，公司计划延迟年报披露时间，目前正等待集团批复。
"Our annual report was originally scheduled to be released at the end of March, but due to the outbreak, we now need 14 days of isolation and the company plans to delay annual report disclosure and is waiting for the group's approval."
”一位福建省上市公司董秘对《财经》记者表示，具体披露时间需要看审计师进场时间。
Dong Secy, a listed company in Fujian province, told Caijing that the timing of the disclosure would depend on the auditor's arrival time.
与上述公司年报披露时间尚未修改不同，多家上市公司2019年报披露日期已初次延后。
Unlike the company's annual report disclosure schedule has not been revised, 2019 annual report disclosure date for a number of listed companies has been postponed.
《财经》记者根据巨潮资讯统计，截止2020年2月24日，共计266家沪深公司初次变更2019年报披露时间，其中229家延迟。
By February 24, 2020, a total of 266 Shanghai and Shenzhen companies had changed their 2019 annual report disclosure schedule for the first time, 229 of which were delayed, according to Caijing News.
Wind数据统计显示，截止2020年2月24日，仅有11家公司披露2019年年报，相对于2019年2月24日41家披露数据，大幅缩减。
Wind statistics show that, as of 24 February 2020, only 11 companies had disclosed their 2019 annual report, a significant reduction from 41 as at 24 February 2019.
作为此次疫情重灾区，湖北省内上市公司年报披露所受影响正逐步显现。
As the disaster area, Hubei Province listed companies annual report disclosure impact is gradually emerging.
《财经》记者采访多家湖北上市公司发现，受复工延期、交通封锁、隔离等因素影响，审计师春节后无法进场，部分尚未更改年报披露日期的公司，考虑延期。
"Caijing" reporters interviewed a number of listed companies in Hubei Province, found that due to factors such as delay of resumption of work, traffic blockade, isolation and other factors, auditors can not enter the scene after the Spring Festival, some companies have not yet changed the annual report disclosure date, consider postponing.
虽然目前证监会已明确，难以在原预约日期披露2019年年报的，可申请延期至2020年4月30日前披露。
Although the CSRC has now made it clear that it is difficult to disclose the 2019 annual report on the original appointment date, it may apply for an extension until 30 April 2020.
但受访的多位事务所合伙人及审计师表示，目前企业复工率不高，由于线下审计工作无法开展，4月底未必来得及，呼吁进一步延期。
However, many of the firm's partners and auditors interviewed said that the rate of return to work was low and that due to the unavailability of an off-line audit, it might not be possible to do so in late April and called for further extensions.
对于一些主要业务或审计团队在湖北的上市公司，证监会副主席李超表示，将全面评估疫情影响再做安排，并做好和现有法律法规及相关规则的有效衔接。
Li Chao, vice chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission, said the company would conduct a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the outbreak before arranging for effective interface with existing laws, regulations and rules.
延期数量快速增加受新型冠状病毒疫情影响，因现场审计无法全面开展等原因，延期披露2019年报的上市公司数量近期快速增加。
Due to the impact of the new coronavirus epidemic, the number of listed companies deferring the 2019 annual report disclosure has increased rapidly in recent years due to reasons such as the inability to conduct on-site audits.
《财经》记者根据巨潮资讯统计，2月19日，沪深两市推迟披露年报的公司为168家，至24日攀升到229家，增幅36.31%。
On February 19, 168 companies in Shanghai and Shenzhen postponed the disclosure of their annual reports, increasing 36.31 percent to 229 on February 24, according to statistics from Caijing.
“受疫情影响，包括财务在内的公司部门，现在每天上班人数不能超过50%，下周也是一样。
"The corporate sector, which is affected by the epidemic, including finances, cannot go to work more than 50 per cent a day, nor next week.
”四创电子（600990.SH）一位人士2月21日对《财经》记者表示，当天有2名审计人员进场，因疫情期公司和审计机构复工人数限制，审计团队约11个人无法全部到场，后续要分批过来与财务人员对接。
The audit team of about 11 people was unable to make it to the scene because of the restrictions on the number of employees returning to work during the epidemic period, a spokesman for Caijing told China Daily on Feb. 21.
办公地址位于安徽省合肥市的四创电子，2019年报首次预约披露时间为2月29日，初次变更时间为4月25日。
The office address is located in Hefei, Anhui Province, the 2019 annual report is the first appointment to disclose February 29, the initial change time is April 25.
与四创电子已有部分审计人员进场不同的是，有些上市公司审计机构目前尚无法进场。
Unlike the four-way electronics has some auditors into the market, some listed companies audit institutions are not yet able to enter the market.
“年前我们已做了大部分年报审计工作，还有部分本地审计工作打算春节后再做，没想到疫情这么严重，现在即便审计人员能过来，还需要14天隔离后才能工作。
"We did most of our annual audit work a year ago, and some of our local audit work was going to be done after the Spring Festival.
”宏发股份（600885.SH）证券部人士向《财经》记者坦言，公司跟审计机构沟通，对方预计在3月初再过来开展工作。
HTC Securities told Caijing that the company communicated with the auditor and that the other party was expected to come back in early March.
宏发股份年报首次预约披露时间为4月2日，初次变更时间为4月30日。
Hongfa shares annual report of the first appointment disclosure time is April 2, the initial change time is April 30.
上市公司大范围延期披露年报背后，是疫情之下，各地对复工的要求、外来人员隔离等因素，打乱了审计机构的工作节奏。
Large-scale delayed disclosure of annual reports of listed companies, is under the epidemic situation, local requirements for resumption of work, isolation of foreign personnel, and other factors, disrupted the pace of audit institutions.
“目前团队已复工，暂采取远程审计，要求企业提供电子版的报表数据进行分析，在家做项目底稿。
"At present the team has resumed work, temporarily adopt the remote audit, the enterprise provides the electronic report data to carry on the analysis, makes the project manuscript at home.
”一名四大会计师事务所的审计经理告诉《财经》记者，但存货盘点、管理层访谈、实地走访等现场工作无法开展，“一个所就那么点人，要审几十上百家公司，说实话是很紧张的，更何况今年。
An audit manager at one of the big four accountancy firms told Caijing, but fieldwork such as inventory counts, management interviews and site visits could not be carried out.
”而部分银行工作人员和上下游公司还未正常复工，事务所向他们寄送的银行存款、应收应付往来款等询证函，因没人接收，极大影响回函速度，亦延缓了上述审计经理的工作进程。
However, some bank staff and upstream and downstream companies have not yet resumed normal work. Letters of enquiry from the firms, such as bank deposits, accounts payable, etc. sent to them by the firms have not been accepted, greatly affecting the response time and slowing down the work of the above-mentioned audit managers.
一名位于福建的审计师透露，本地项目开始陆续进现场，但出差项目更是难上加难：“好多地方宾馆暂停营业，因此即便被审计企业上班了，出差也没地方住。
A Fujian-based auditor says local projects are beginning to arrive, but business trips are even more difficult: "Many local hotels are closed, so there is no room for business trips even when the audited companies are at work.
”“对于子公司多、业务复杂的上市公司来说，短时间内要保证审计质量难度很大。
"For listed companies with multiple subsidiaries and complex operations, it is difficult to ensure the quality of audits in a short time.
”一位大型国内会计师事务所的合伙人表示，但该做的程序一个也不能少，因为如果上市公司爆雷，“最后账都算到审计师头上”。
A partner at a large domestic accountancy firm says there is not a single procedure to be followed, because if a listed company explodes, "the final account goes to the auditor."
上市企业较多的地区，2019年报披露延迟的公司数量也较为靠前。
In regions with more listed companies, 2019 annual reports also show a higher number of delayed disclosure.
《财经》记者统计发现，截止2月24日，在2019年报披露推迟的上市公司区域分布上，广东省共计40家暂排名首位，北京市、浙江省紧随其后。
As of February 24, according to Caijing, Guangdong Province ranked first out of a total of 40 listed companies whose regional distribution had been delayed by 2019, followed by Beijing and Zhejiang provinces.
从行业分别来看，包括化工、汽车、轻工等在内的制造业，共计约148家上市公司延迟披露年报，占比为64.63%。
In terms of industry, some 148 listed companies, including chemicals, automobiles and light industry, have delayed the disclosure of their annual reports, accounting for 64.63 per cent.
在一位上市公司人士看来，审计工作中，有些工作需要到现场才能进行，如库存盘点等工作，因疫情导致审计师无法进场，相应的工作就无法按时展开，拥有大量存货的制造业公司尤其如此。
In the view of a listed company, some of the work involved in the audit, such as inventory counts, could not be performed on time due to the lack of access by auditors due to the epidemic, especially in manufacturing companies with large inventories.
湖北公司影响初显作为此次疫情重灾区，湖北上市公司年报审计遇到的问题正逐步显现。
Hubei company as the impact of the disaster areas, Hubei listed companies annual report audit problems are gradually emerging.
截止2月19日，办公地址位于湖北省内延迟披露年报的公司有3家，分别为中信特钢（000708.SZ）、天茂集团（000627.SZ）、当代明诚（600136.SH）。
As of February 19, three companies with offices in Hubei Province had delayed the disclosure of their annual reports: CITIC Steel (000708.SZ), Tianmao Group (000627.SZ) and Mincheng Contemporary (600136.SH).
至2月24日，随着五方光电（002962.SZ）、ST双环（000707.SZ）的加入，湖北省内推迟披露年报的公司数量增至5家。
By February 24, with the addition of five-way photovoltaic (002962.SZ) and ST double-ring (000707.SZ), the number of companies in Hubei Province that delayed the disclosure of their annual reports increased to five.
《财经》记者采访发现，多家尚未延期披露2019年报的湖北企业，在考虑延期。
"Caijing" reporter interviews found that many have not postponed the 2019 annual report disclosure Hubei enterprises, in consideration of the extension.
2月20日，湖北省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部日前发布通告称，涉及保障疫情防控、公共事业、群众生活必需及其他涉及重要国计民生的相关企业除外，各类企业先按不早于3月10日24时前复工。
The new coronavirus-infected pneumonia in Hubei Province will resume work before 2400 hours on March 10, 2007, with the exception of enterprises involved in the prevention and control of the epidemic, public services, the necessities of life and other enterprises that affect the livelihood of the country.
即便已经复工的湖北企业，现场审计工作也无法开展。
Even in Hubei enterprises that have resumed work, on-site audit work could not be carried out.
作为湖北省超市龙头的中百集团（000759.SZ），目前复工率在80%以上，其年报首次预约披露时间为3月27日。
As Hubei supermarket leader in the 100% Group (000759. SZ), the current rework rate is more than 80%, the annual report of the first appointment disclosure date is March 27.
其证券部人士告诉《财经》记者，“年报审计机构中审众环已于年前进场审计，受交通封锁、隔离等因素影响，部分现场盘点推迟，经与证监局沟通过，争取4月底前披露。
"The annual report of the audit institutions in the public audit field audit, due to traffic blockade, isolation and other factors, some of the on-site inventory was postponed, after communication with the Securities Regulatory Bureau, the end of April to disclose.
”办公地址位于湖北的高德红外（002414.SZ）、安琪酵母（600298.SH），年报审计也面临同样的问题。
The office is located in Gao De Infrared (002414.SZ) and Angie Yeast (600298.SH) in Hubei, and annual report audits face the same problem.
延期20天的通知，使得尚未复工的湖北上市公司，现场审计再度延期。
The 20-day extension of the notice, so that the resumption of work of Hubei listed companies, on-site audit once again postponed.
“再度延期20天，无疑对进场审计形成约束。
"A further 20-day extension will no doubt constrain the approach audit.
公司正与事务所沟通，评估影响，对披露时间尚无明确意见。
The company is communicating with the firm to assess the impact and has no firm opinion on the timing of disclosure.
”华工科技（000988.SZ）向记者表示。
China Industrial Technology (000988.SZ) told reporters.
华工科技审计项目负责人直言：“中审众环武汉分所的员工多为湖北本地人，只能呆在家。
The head of the China Industrial Technology Audit Project bluntly said: "Most of the staff of the Central Examiner's Office in Wuhan are Hubei natives and can only stay at home.
根据以往审计经验，一般11-12月预审，次年元月开始正式年审，至少两个月，一般要到三月份。
Based on past audit experience, preliminary examinations are generally conducted in November-December, with formal annual reviews commencing in January of the following year, and at least two months, usually until March.
”一位上市公司人士对《财经》记者分析，作为疫情重灾区，受到疫情因素影响，湖北上市公司年报审计工作受到影响更大，预计延期披露年报的公司数量会逐步增加。
A listed company official told Caijing that the annual report audit of listed companies in Hubei province was more affected by the epidemic as a result of the epidemic, and the number of companies delaying the disclosure of annual reports was expected to increase gradually.
根据Wind数据，需披露2019年年报的湖北省上市公司有107家。
According to Wind, there are 107 listed companies in Hubei province that need to disclose their 2019 annual report.
虽然目前证监会已明确，难以在原预约日期披露2019年年报的，可申请延期至2020年4月30日前披露。
Although the CSRC has now made it clear that it is difficult to disclose the 2019 annual report on the original appointment date, it may apply for an extension until 30 April 2020.
但受访的多位事务所合伙人及审计师呼吁，进一步延期。
But many of the firm's partners and auditors interviewed called for a further extension.
日前，中注协向各会计师事务所发出专项提示，表示正与有关部门密切沟通，并致函有关部门，提请研究年度报告披露延期问题。
Recently, the CIC issued special reminders to all accounting firms that it was in close communication with the relevant departments and wrote to the relevant departments to request that the annual report on the extension be disclosed.
多家湖北上市公司对《财经》记者表示，湖北证监局、交易所在了解公司年报披露受疫情影响，关于无法在4月底前披露年报有什么应对措施，尚没有具体方案。
Hubei listed companies told Caijing that the Hubei Securities Regulatory Commission and the exchange have no specific plans to disclose the impact of the epidemic on the company's annual report before the end of April.
“审计人员不到现场去，肯定会影响审计质量。
"The absence of auditors is bound to affect the quality of the audit.
现场工作是年报审计的硬性规定，缺少这一部分，也是违反规定的。
On-site work is a mandatory annual report audit, the lack of this part, is also against the rules.
”中国农业大学经济管理学院会计系副教授葛长银对媒体表示。
Wei Changyin, associate professor of accounting at the China Agricultural University School of Economics, told reporters.
不过，为了更加准确评估疫情对上市公司的影响，监管层正紧锣密鼓地开展风险排查，对各类市场主体受疫情影响的程度进行研判，以做出应对安排。
However, in order to more accurately assess the impact of the epidemic on listed companies, regulators are intensively conducting a risk screening exercise to assess the extent to which various market players are affected by the epidemic in order to make arrangements.
如上交所组织力量了解疫情对上市公司生产经营的影响，针对面临的复工难等压力，提出相关解决建议方案。
Such as the Shanghai Stock Exchange organizational forces to understand the impact of the epidemic on the production and operation of listed companies, facing the pressure, such as back-to-work, put forward relevant solutions.
同时，安排公司进行年报披露预约日期变更。
At the same time, the company annual report disclosure appointment changes.
“疫情给我的启示是：事务所信息化程度越高，非现场审计的效果就越接近现场审计。
"The apocalypse to me is that the higher the information level of the firm, the more effective off-site audit is."
”国内某大型会计师事务所合伙人表示，未来将加大对审计软件的投入，提升审计效率。
The partner of a large domestic accounting firm said he would invest more in auditing software in the future to improve audit efficiency.
在市场人士看来，上市公司2019年报披露大范围延期，多数情况下对投资者判断公司价值大体方向影响不大，但会在细节上给研究公司带来些许困扰。
For market participants, 2019 annual reports reveal a wide range of postponements, which in most cases have little impact on investors' judgment of the general direction of a company's value, but can be a nuisance in detail for research firms.
因为对公司投资价值产生影响的非标意见也会相应推迟公布，持有这类股票股东的策略调整时间会受到影响。
Since non-standard opinions that affect the value of a company's investments are also delayed, the timing of strategic adjustments for holding such shareholders will be affected.
“不过，非标审计意见在白马股中出现的概率较小，小市值公司中可能会出现。
"However, non-standard audit opinions are less likely to occur in white horse stocks and may occur in small capitalization companies."
”惠潆医疗资本副总经理侯大玮对《财经》记者表示。
Hou Dawei, vice-general manager of Hui medical capital, told Caijing.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
229家A股公司年报推迟披露 ，多家湖北企业考虑延期。
229 annual reports of A-shares companies delayed disclosure, many Hubei enterprises consider postponing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "229家A股公司年报推迟披露 ，多家湖北企业考虑延期";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 229 A-share company annual reports delayed disclosure, and many Hubei companies considered renewing or quoting;;
var msg_desc = "疫情不仅严重影响了企业复工，多家A股公司年报披露也因此延期。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Not only has the outbreak severely affected company resumption, but many A-share company annual reports have been delayed.
作为此次疫情重灾区，湖北省内上市公司年报披露所受影响正逐步显现";。
As the worst affected by the epidemic, Hubei province's annual report disclosure is gradually showing up at & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
