全球股市战战兢兢，世卫否定大流行病。
Global stock markets tremble and WHO rejects a pandemic.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
世界卫生组织官员对韩国和伊朗等地爆发新冠病毒疫情表示担忧，但表示情况尚未上升到大流行病的程度。
World Health Organization officials have expressed concern about outbreaks in places such as South Korea and Iran, but say the situation has not risen to pandemic proportions.
在美欧金融市场，这一模式已变得清晰：新增确诊病例数=增加的市场恐慌=疲弱的资本市场。
In US and European financial markets, the pattern has become clear: the number of newly diagnosed cases = increased market panic = weak capital markets.
这一模式会否必然在中国出现，尚待观察图/法新文 |《财经》特派华盛顿记者金焱编辑 | 苏琦全球股市被新冠病毒疫情的恐惧所笼罩。
Whether this model will inevitably emerge in China remains to be seen. Caijing's Washington correspondent Jin Yan, editor and director, Suqi Global Stock Markets, is haunted by fears of a new crown virus outbreak.
继亚洲股市一片惨跌、欧股收盘全线重挫暴跌后，美股2月24日大幅低开，道指一度跌超千点、收盘创下2年来最大单日跌幅。
US stocks opened sharply lower on Feb. 24 after Asian equity markets tumbled and European stocks tumbled sharply as the Dow briefly fell below 1,000 points and closed off its biggest one-day drop in two years.
一个华尔街基金经理对《财经》记者形容市场的恐惧时说，当天投资人彼此发出的评论多以“我的天啊（OMG）”开头。
One Wall Street fund manager told Caijing's fear of describing the market that most of the comments investors made to each other that day started with 'My God.
美国科技股在今年不到二个月的时间已经推动股市不断飙升，创下新高。
U.S. technology stocks have pushed stocks to record highs in less than two months this year.
另一方面，花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）则对《财经》记者表示，现在一个已变得清晰的模式是：新增确诊病例数=增加的市场恐慌=疲弱的资本市场，这是底线。
On the other hand, Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global head of foreign exchange and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, told Caijing that there is now a clear pattern of newly diagnosed cases = increased market panic = weak capital markets, which is the bottom line.
当然新增确诊病例数指的是中国境外的新增。
The number of newly confirmed cases, of course, refers to new cases outside China.
随着中国确诊感染病例的减少，全球关注焦点已转移到了疫情陆续爆发的新前线。
With fewer confirmed infections in China, the focus of global attention has shifted to the new front lines of the epidemic.
世界卫生组织官员对韩国和伊朗等地爆发新冠病毒疫情表示担忧，但表示情况尚未上升到大流行病的程度。
World Health Organization officials have expressed concern about outbreaks in places such as South Korea and Iran, but say the situation has not risen to pandemic proportions.
世卫组织总干事谭德塞表示，他们的研究小组刚刚结束了在中国的调研，并确认该流行病在1月23日至2月2日之间达到顶峰后，一直在稳步下降。
WHO Director-General Lindsay said his team had just concluded its research in China and confirmed that the epidemic had been declining steadily since peaking between January 23 and February 2.
谭德塞表示，意大利、伊朗以及韩国等突然增加的病例让我们深感忧虑，很多人担心这种增长是否意味着这种疫情现在是否已经进入大流行阶段。
We are deeply concerned about the sudden increase in cases in Italy, Iran and South Korea, and many are concerned whether that growth means the epidemic is now in the pandemic phase, he said.
我们决定是否使用“大流行病”一词。
We decide whether to use the term "pandemic."
谭德塞解释说，世卫组织在判断是否使用“大流行病”一词描述疫情时，要对病毒传播的地理范围、所引发疾病严重程度以及对整个社会的影响等进行持续评估。
When WHO judges whether to use the term "pandemic" to describe an outbreak, it conducts a continuous assessment of the geographic spread of the virus, the severity of the disease it causes and its impact on society as a whole, he explained.
目前世卫组织并未看到新冠病毒在全球范围内“不受控制地”传播，也未看到重症病例或死亡病例大规模出现。
So far, the WHO has seen no "uncontrolled" global spread of the new strain of the virus, or a large-scale outbreak of serious cases or deaths.
“我们看到的是世界不同地区发生的疫情正以不同方式影响着各国，需要采取因地制宜的应对措施。
"What we are seeing is that outbreaks in different parts of the world are affecting countries in different ways and require local responses.
”谭德塞说。
'she said.
美欧股市再现“黑色星期一”多位投资经理对《财经》记者表示，市场在2月21日就感到了疫情对全球经济的寒意，在整个周末情况越来越糟，韩国、意大利和伊朗的重镑消息直接导致了黑色星期一的到来。
'Black Monday 'returns to US and European stock markets Many investment managers told Caijing that markets felt the chill of the global economy on Feb. 21 and things got worse over the weekend, with heavy news from South Korea, Italy and Iran leading directly to Black Monday.
深数宏观用一种新颖的大数据方式判断疫情对市场的影响。
Deep number macroscopic uses a kind of novel big data way to judge the epidemic situation to the market influence.
他们的分析基于路透社新闻头条中对新冠病毒疫情的语言处理——用语言的恐惧程度为指标，对比了与“冷静/平静”相关单词的数量，与“恐慌/担忧”相关单词的数量，得出对新冠病毒疫情报道恐惧程度的净得分，负值意味着更恐惧/不大镇定，正值则意味少有恐惧/更镇定。
Their analysis was based on the verbal treatment of the New Crown Virus epidemic in Reuters news headlines - comparing the number of words associated with "calm / calm" with the number of words associated with "panic / fear," to derive a net score for fear of reporting a new crown virus outbreak. Negative values mean more fear / less calm, positive values mean less fear / calmness.
这是一种更全球而非中国情绪的指标。
This is a more global indicator than a measure of Chinese sentiment.
结果是“恐惧”情绪在2月1日达到顶峰。
As a result, "fear" peaked on February 1.
尽管在2月9日和2月14日中的净恐惧增加，但这一情绪在那之后明显减少。
Although there was an increase in net fear on 9 February and 14 February, this sentiment has decreased significantly since then.
最近几天，由于韩国，伊朗和意大利疫情暴发，恐惧指数急剧恶化，拖累了全球股市。
In recent days, fear indices have deteriorated sharply, owing to outbreaks in South Korea, Iran, and Italy, which have dragged down stock markets around the world.
2月24日，韩国首尔综指收盘下跌3.9%，为2018年10月来最大单日跌幅；韩元兑美元汇率盘中一度下跌0.8%，至1218.35，为8月以来最低；泰国综合指数重挫3.98%，跌至2016年10月份水平；孟买SENSEX30指数跌1.22%；日经225指数跌1.14%；香港恒生指数跌1.79%。
On February 24, the Seoul Composite Index closed 3.9 per cent lower, its biggest one-day fall since October 2018; the won fell 0.8 per cent to 1218.35, its lowest since August; the Thai composite index fell 3.98 per cent to October 2016 levels; the SenseX30 index fell 1.22 per cent; the Nikkei 225 index fell 1.14 per cent; and the Hong Kong Hang Seng index fell 1.79 per cent.
上证指数跌0.28%。
The Shanghai index fell 0.28%.
欧股周一收盘全线重挫，德国DAX30指数跌超4%，英国富时100指数、法国CAC40指数跌超3%，意大利富时MIB指数大跌逾5%。
European shares fell sharply Monday, with the German DAX30 index falling below 4 per cent, the FTSE 100 index, the French CAC40 index falling below 3 per cent and the Italian FTSE MIB index falling more than 5 per cent.
A50指数期货盘中跌超1%。
A50 futures fell below 1 per cent.
避险情绪陡升，股市大跌，避险资产上涨的故事也在美国资本市场上演。
Stories of a sharp rise in risk aversion, a plunge in equity markets, and a rise in risk-averse assets are also unfolding in US capital markets.
周一美股三大股指全线收跌，道指跌超达1032点。
All three indexes closed lower Monday, with the Dow dropping more than 1032 points.
截止收盘，道指跌3.56%，纳指跌3.71%，标普500指数跌3.35%。
By the close, the Dow was down 3.56%, the NX was down 3.71%, and the S & P 500 was down 3.35%.
A50指数期货盘中跌超1%。
A50 futures fell below 1 per cent.
受疫情发展的相关消息影响，周一早间，衡量投资者恐慌程度的芝商所(Cboe)波动率指数(VIX)一度飙升约48%，上涨至23点。
On Monday morning, the Cboe volatility index, a measure of investor panic, soared about 48 per cent to 23 on news of the outbreak.
目前该指数上涨约34%。
The index is now up about 34%.
大宗商品市场方面，美、布两油跌近4%，截止收盘，WTI原油期货收跌1.95美元，跌幅3.65%，收报51.43美元/桶。
In commodities, U.S. and cloth oil fell nearly 4%, and by the end of trading, WTI crude fell $1.95, or 3.65%, to $51.43 a barrel.
布伦特原油期货收跌2.20美元，跌幅3.76%，收报56.30美元/桶。
Brent crude fell $2.20, or 3.76%, to $56.30 a barrel.
多位经济学家对《财经》记者表示，疫情对美国经济的影响可能要大于预期，如果美股继续下跌，美联储的选择空间不多，只能降息。
Economists told Caijing that the impact on the U.S. economy could be greater than expected, leaving the Fed little choice but to cut interest rates if U.S. stocks continue to fall.
疫情进一步全球扩散在过去两天，个别国家确诊病例的快速增长令人咋舌，如何控制病毒在人与人之间的进一步传播已成为疫情的新担忧。
Further Global Spread of the Epidemic Over the past two days, the rapid increase in confirmed cases in individual countries has been staggering, and how to control the further spread of the virus from person to person has become a new concern of the epidemic.
意大利成为欧洲地区最大规模的新型冠状病毒疫情区，有219人对该病毒呈阳性反应，有5人死亡。
Italy has become the largest new coronavirus outbreak in Europe, with 219 people HIV-positive and five deaths.
随着人们担忧整个欧洲疫情加剧，意大利警方在北部十几个被隔离的城镇附近设置了检查站。
Italian police have set up checkpoints near more than a dozen isolated towns in the north amid fears of a wider European outbreak.
当地时间2月24日晚，世界卫生组织欧洲地区办公室发表声明称，世卫组织与欧洲疾病预防控制中心联合派出的专家组已于当天达到意大利。
On the night of February 24, the WHO Regional Office for Europe issued a statement saying that a team of experts from WHO and the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention had arrived in Italy the same day.
专家组主要将在临床管理、感染防控、疫情监测与危机沟通等方面提供支持。
The team will provide support in clinical management, infection control, epidemic surveillance and crisis communication.
意大利出现的病例中，80%没有症状或者只有轻微症状，这算是个好消息。
Of the cases in Italy, 80% are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms, which is good news.
意大利的“1号病人”来自伦巴第大区在21日凌晨确诊的意大利第四例新冠病毒确诊患者，他此前并未前往中国也没有和任何确诊患者有过密切接触。
Italy's "No.1 patient" from the region of Lombardy in the early morning diagnosis of Italy's fourth case of the new crown virus, he did not travel to China and did not have any close contact with any confirmed patients.
意大利媒体表示，在约半个月的时间里，他参加了一次半程马拉松比赛、一场足球赛、一次跑步比赛，并多次和朋友一起用餐。
Italian media say he ran a half marathon, a football match, a running contest and dined with friends for about half a month.
“1号病人”曾在1月21日和另外一名41岁的意大利男子一起用餐，这名41岁男子曾前往中国并在2月初出现流感症状，不过他进行新冠病毒核算检测的结果为阴性，因此意大利当局仍在努力确定可能存在的“0号病人”。
Patient 1 dined with another 41-year-old Italian man who traveled to China on January 21 and developed flu symptoms in early February. However, negative results from his New Crown Virus accounting test led the Italian authorities to try to identify a possible "No.1 patient."
韩国总统文在寅将韩国置于红色警报即最高警报级别之中。
South Korean President Wen JY put South Korea on Red Alert, the highest alert level.
在仅仅五天的时间内，韩国确诊病例数就增加了大约25倍。
In just five days, the number of confirmed cases in South Korea has increased approximately 25-fold.
韩国中央应急处置本部副本部长金刚立24日在记者会上表示，大邱地区感染新冠病毒的确诊病例规模较大，若不能有效阻断社区传播，疫情很可能扩散至全国。
Kim Gang-li, deputy minister of the Central Emergency Management Agency, told a news conference on Thursday that the confirmed cases of the new crown virus in Daegu are so large that they are likely to spread to the whole country unless community transmission is effectively halted.
目前新冠病毒疫情正在中东扩散。
The New Crown Virus epidemic is spreading in the Middle East.
伊朗已有12人死于该病毒。
Twelve people have died in Iran.
来自库姆的伊朗议员艾哈迈德·阿米里阿巴迪·法拉哈尼则对媒体表示，新冠肺炎疫情在库姆扩散的范围大于此前报道，目前已导致50人死亡，另有250多人隔离，这一消息不前未得到官方证实。
Ahmad Amiri Abadi Farahani, an Iranian parliamentarian from Qom, told the press that the spread of the outbreak in Qom was greater than previously reported, with 50 people killed and more than 250 isolated, a development that has not been officially confirmed.
巴林卫生部当地时间24日晚发布公告，称确诊一名巴林女性公民为新型冠状病毒确诊病例。
A Bahraini woman was confirmed to be a confirmed case of coronavirus, the ministry of health said Thursday night.
这也是巴林境内确诊的第二名新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例。
This is the second confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia in Bahrain.
公告显示，该感感染者此前曾前往伊朗旅行，后与其丈夫和儿媳一起经停阿联酋迪拜后返回巴林。
The announcement said the person had travelled to Iran before returning to Bahrain with her husband and daughter-in-law via Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
科威特卫生部24日晚发布声明称，经过对伊朗返回科威特公民的医学检查，确定新增两例新型冠状病毒感染者。
The Kuwaiti Ministry of Health issued a statement on the evening of 24, after Iran returned to Kuwait citizens medical examination, identified two new cases of coronary virus infection.
科威特境内的新型冠状病毒感染者数量也因此增加至五人，其中包括一名沙特公民和一名不确定国籍者。
As a result, the number of new coronary infections in Kuwait has increased to five, including one Saudi citizen and one person of uncertain nationality.
阿富汗公共卫生部长费罗兹(Ferozuddin Feroz)2月24日表示，在靠近伊朗边界的一个西部省份赫拉特，发现了3起疑似新冠病毒病例，其中1例已经确诊。
Ferozuddin Feroz, Afghanistan's public health minister, said on February 24 that three suspected new crown virus cases had been found in Herat, a western province close to the Iranian border, and one case had been confirmed.
费罗兹还宣布，赫拉特省进入紧急状态。
Feroz also declared a state of emergency in Herat province.
阿富汗政府已经决定暂停与伊朗之间的空中及路上交通，并停止从伊朗进口鸡肉及鸡蛋。
The Afghan government has decided to suspend air and road traffic with Iran and to stop importing chicken and eggs from Iran.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球股市战战兢兢，世卫否定大流行病。
Global stock markets tremble and WHO rejects a pandemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "全球股市战战兢兢，世卫否定大流行病";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Global stock markets trembled, and WHO rejected pandemic & quot;;
var msg_desc = "世界卫生组织官员对韩国和伊朗等地爆发新冠病毒疫情表示担忧，但表示情况尚未上升到大流行病的程度。
var msg _ desc = & quot; WHO officials have expressed concern about outbreaks in places such as South Korea and Iran, but say the situation hasn't risen to pandemic proportions.
在美欧金融市场，这一模式已变得清晰：新增确诊病例数=增加的市场恐慌=疲弱的资本市场。
In US and European financial markets, the pattern has become clear: the number of newly diagnosed cases = increased market panic = weak capital markets.
这一模式会否必然在中国出现，尚待观察";。
Whether this model will inevitably emerge in China remains to be seen and seen.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
