研究表明：新冠病毒可能于去年11月出现，近期变异不大。
Studies suggest that the new crown virus may have appeared last November, with little recent variation.
孙爱民。
Sun Aimin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
新冠病毒一直在变异，研究者发现截至目前仍较缓和。
The new crown virus has been mutating and researchers have found it to be milder so far.
但鉴于当前疫情的严峻形势，共享病毒相关的数据对控疫更有帮助室外环境中，患者咳嗽、说话等喷出来的病毒，很快会被大气稀释，在扩散过程中会衰减，所以浓度会变得很低，病毒活性也可能受到空气污染物的影响。
But given the severity of the current outbreak, sharing virus-related data is more helpful in controlling the epidemic. Outdoor viruses, such as coughing and talking, are quickly diluted into the atmosphere and decay in the process of spreading, so concentrations become low and virus activity may be influenced by air pollutants.
图/中新文 |《财经》记者 孙爱民 编辑 | 王小新冠病毒肺炎疫情已经两个多月，人们对罪魁病毒的认知还十分有限。
Photo / Zhongxin & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
2月22日，南方医科大学学者通过对39条新冠病毒（SARS-CoV-2）序列进行研究，发现病毒可能出现在2019年11月左右。
On 22 February, Southern Medical University scholars studied 39 new crown virus (SARS-CoV-2) sequences and found that the virus could be around November 2019.
这一结论与学术界和官方认为的最早病例出现的时间相符：卫生部门与疾控系统普遍认可第一例病例发生于2019年12月8日，《柳叶刀》的一篇论文则认为是2019年12月1日。
This conclusion is consistent with the earliest known cases in academia and official circles: the health sector and the disease control system generally agree that the first case occurred on 8 December 2019, while a Lancet paper dated 1 December 2019.
对38个病毒毒株进行基因序列比较后，研究人员发现从疫情发生至今，病毒虽在变异，但变化不大。
After sequencing 38 viral strains, the researchers found that the virus had mutated but changed little since the outbreak.
研究人员发现了 117处变异，变异位点没有聚集性，相对均匀地分布在整个基因组，这表明目前的突变，尚未出现特别“激进”的变异之处。
The researchers found 117 mutations, which were not clustered and were spread relatively evenly across the genome, suggesting that the current mutations had not yet produced particularly "radical" variations.
该研究在《南方医科大学学报》网络首发，由南方医科大学公共卫生学院生物安全防护三级（P3）实验室副主任张宝教授领衔的科研团队完成。
The study, published in the Journal of Southern Medical University, was led by a research team led by Professor Zhang Bao, deputy director of the Biosecurity Level 3 (P3) Laboratory at the Southern Medical University School of Public Health.
全球多支研究团队，正在试图攻克新冠病毒。
Teams of researchers around the world are trying to conquer the new crown virus.
来自浙江、北京、湖北武汉等的多个P3实验室，正进行活体病毒的相关研究。
Many P3 labs from Zhejiang, Beijing and Hubei Wuhan are doing research on vivo virus.
尽管病毒的基因组在疫情发生后很快被解析，基因组特征正被一层层揭晓，但这些特征还难以解释病毒为何具有强传播力。
Although the virus's genome was soon resolved after the outbreak, and genomic signatures are being revealed, it is difficult to explain why the virus has a strong transmission.
而病毒出现的时间，以及是否有中间宿主、传染源是什么、传染病是否会一直存在，也都是谜。
The timing of the virus's emergence, and whether it has an intermediate host, what the source of infection is, and whether infectious disease will persist, is also a mystery.
这些问题，同样是解开新冠病毒强传播力的钥匙密码。
These problems, too, are the key codes that unlock the strong transmission of the new crown virus.
“说实话，我们仍然不知道病毒来自哪里”谁是第一例新冠肺炎患者，至今没有消息，有人甚至已悲观地预测，会像SARS第一例患者的追寻一样，无疾而终。
"To be honest, we still don't know where the virus came from." There is no news so far, and some have even gloomily predicted that it would end up as badly as the first SARS patient sought.
从第一例患者，可以通过流行病学调查，来倒推病毒的由来、寻找传染源。
From the first case, the epidemiological investigation can be used to reverse the origin of the virus, find the source of infection.
以中国疾控中心为主要参加单位的论文，普遍将2019年12月8日作为此次疫情第一例患者的住院时间，这也是武汉市卫健委等官方认可的时间点。
Taking China CDC as the main participating unit, the paper generally regards December 8, 2019 as the time of hospitalization of the first case of the epidemic.
中日友好医院副院长曹彬等，在《柳叶刀》上发表的论文，则将一例2019年12月1日住院的病例，作为疫情的第一例患者。
Cao Bin, vice-president of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, among others, published a paper in The Lancet on a case of hospitalization on December 1, 2019 as the first case of the outbreak.
另一种方式，是通过对病毒基因序列的研究，通过病毒基因组的特性，来推测病毒出现的时间。
Another way is by studying the virus's genetic sequence, the virus genome characteristics, to predict the emergence of the virus.
张宝研究团队，应用进化时间信号分析软件TempEst，分析当前基因组数据，然后进行了tMRCA（最近共同祖先出现时间）分析。
Zhang Bao's team analyzed current genome data using the evolutionary time-signal analysis software TempEst, and then conducted a tMRCA analysis.
按照上述思路，遴选最佳核苷酸替代模型参数，将其采样时间2020年1月23日作为第0天，研究者最终推算新冠病毒出现的时间为此前38.9天到119.3天，即2019年9月23日到2019年12月15日之间。
Along these lines, the optimal nucleotide replacement model parameters were selected and sampled for a 0-day period on January 23, 2020, with researchers eventually projecting that the new crown virus would occur between 38.9 and 119.3 days before, between September 23, 2019 and December 15, 2019.
“按照模型计算，病毒出现时间为1月23日往前平均73天，95%可信区间是38到113天。
Model calculations show that the virus was present for an average of 73 days prior to January 23, with a 95 percent confidence interval of 38 to 113 days.
所以，2019年11月10日是平均值。
Thus, 10 November 2019 is the average.
”张宝对《财经》记者分析。
Zhang Bao's analysis of Caijing.
“病毒最先在2019年11月份出现”，这一推算与《科学》杂志的一篇报道相符。
"The virus first appeared in November 2019," according to a report in Science.
1月24日，北京中日友好医院副院长曹彬、武汉市金银潭医院胸外科主任医师黄朝林等人，在《柳叶刀》上在线发表的论文，对最初感染的41个病人的临床症状进行了分析和总结，发现41例患者中有27例曾接触过华南海鲜市场，并将2019年12月1日的病例作为此次疫情的最早病例。
On January 24, 2008, Cao Bin, Vice-President of the China-Japan Friendship Hospital in Beijing, Huang Chaolin, Chief Physician of Chest Surgery at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, and others, published online in The Lancet, analyzed and summarized the clinical symptoms of 41 patients who had been exposed to the South China seafood market.
两天后，《科学》杂志因此撰文援引美国乔治敦大学传染病学专家Daniel Lucey的说法：如果12月1日出现首个病例，也确实没有华南海鲜批发市场的暴露史，考虑到潜伏期的因素，这个人很可能是在11月就感染了病毒，“这种病毒是先被带入市场，然后才被带出市场的”。
Two days later, the journal Science quoted Daniel Lucey, an infectious diseases specialist at Georgetown University, as saying that if the first case had occurred on December 1, there would have been no history of exposure at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
不过，曹彬在接受《科学》采访时称，“说实话，我们仍然不知道病毒来自哪里”。
"To be honest, we still don't know where the virus came from," Cao told Science.com.
变异一直在发生，未产生全新毒株新冠病毒发生两个多月，截至2月24日18时，仅中国便有77000多例确诊患者。
The mutation has been occurring without the emergence of a new strain of Newcap virus for more than two months, with more than 77,000 confirmed cases in China alone as at 1800 hours on 24 February.
公众担心病毒是否在快速变异，会不会杀伤力更强。
The public is worried about whether the virus is mutating rapidly and will be more lethal.
近期的多项研究，可扫除此种担忧。
A number of recent studies have addressed this concern.
张宝的研究团队，将38株病毒基因序列进行比较研究后发现：核苷酸之间变化差异非常小，以最早测定的序列为参考，共计有117处变异，变异位点没有聚集性，相对均匀地分布整个基因组。
Zhang's team, comparing 38 viral gene sequences, found that the variation between nucleotides was very small, with a total of 117 mutations, with no aggregation at the mutation sites and a relatively uniform distribution of the genome as a whole, using the earliest available sequence as a reference.
香港研究者发现，从香港患者身上检测出来的毒株，与武汉患者毒株相比，只差6个核苷酸。
Hong Kong researchers found that the virus strains detected in Hong Kong patients were only six nucleotides short of Wuhan.
核苷酸是病毒的遗传物质，控制病毒的复制和决定病毒特性。
Nucleotides are the genetic material of the virus, controlling its replication and determining its characteristics.
整个SARS-CoV-2有3万核苷酸，目前有6个突变，只占极小的比例。
The entire SARS-CoV-2 has 30, 000 nucleotides and currently has 6 mutations, a very small percentage.
2月19日，中科院西双版纳热带植物园研究员郁文彬等学者，在中科院科技论文预发布平台ChinaXiv上发表的论文显示：研究者在对93个新冠病毒样本的基因组数据研究后发现，病毒基因组没有发生重组事件，93个基因组之间有120个核苷酸发生了突变，占序列长度的0.41%，这些突变均匀分散在10个编码区。
On February 19, Yu Wenbin, a researcher at the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, published in the Chinese Academy of Sciences' pre-release platform for scientific papers, showed that there had been no recombination of virus genomes and 120 nucleotide mutations between 93 genomes, representing 0.41% of the sequence length.
研究者的结论是，新冠病毒基因组尚未发生重组事件是一个好消息，也就是说不会产生全新的病毒毒株。
The researchers concluded that the fact that the genome of the new crown virus had not yet been restructured was good news, meaning that no new strain of the virus would be created.
事实上，病毒的变异一直都在发生。
In fact, mutations of the virus have been occurring all along.
新冠病毒是RNA病毒。
The new crown virus is RNA virus.
“RNA病毒跟人的基因不一样，在复制过程中没有校准机制。
"RNA viruses, unlike human genes, do not have a calibration mechanism during replication.
”上海公共卫生临床中心一名研究人员告诉《财经》记者。
A researcher at the Shanghai Public Health Clinic told Caijing.
从进化角度来说，病毒的进化要对自身有利，把自己变得更“毒”，会把宿主杀光，自己也无处藏身，不利于繁衍。
From an evolutionary perspective, viruses evolve in their own favor, becoming more "poisonous," killing their hosts and leaving them with nowhere to hide.
但传播速度更快，显然是SARS-CoV-2的利器。
But the speed of transmission is much faster and is clearly the weapon of the SARS-CoV-2.
有学者提醒，在疫情两个月后，要警惕新冠病毒传播进程的加快。
Some scholars warn that two months after the outbreak, we should be alert to the rapid spread of the new crown virus.
2月18日，中国科学院院士蒲慕明与中山大学生命科学学院教授吴仲义，在《国家科学评论》撰文指出：2003年SARS疫情期间，病毒在开始的两个月早期较慢传播后，进入了中期加速阶段。
Writing in the National Scientific Review on February 18, Chinese Academy of Sciences academician Pu Muming and Wu Zhongyi, a professor at the School of Life Sciences at Zhongshan University, wrote in the National Scientific Review that during the SARS epidemic in 2003, the virus entered a mid-term acceleration phase after slow transmission in the first two months.
研究者提醒：SARS病毒进化的第一阶段恰好是两个月，此次疫情“最坏的可能性是，经历了两个月的‘慢进化’模式之后，2019-nCoV‘摸索’出了进化的途径，开始蠢蠢欲动。
The researchers note that the first stage of the SARS virus's evolution occurred just two months ago, and that the "worst-case scenario" of the outbreak is that 2019-nCoV "gropes" out of the way of evolution and starts acting up after two months of "slow evolution."
”新冠病毒的传播力远超SARS病毒，尽管病毒基因组很快被破译，国内外多篇论文也揭示了基因组特征，但这些特征还难以解释新冠病的强传播力。
The spread of the new crown virus far exceeds that of the SARS virus, and although the virus genome was quickly deciphered and several papers at home and abroad have revealed genomic characteristics that do not explain the strong transmission of the disease.
2月15日，美国国立卫生研究院(NIH) 与德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校Jason S.McLellan研究组进行合作，利用冷冻电镜技术分析发现，SARS-CoV-2和SARS病毒的S蛋白具有相同的功能性宿主细胞ACE2，但前者的ACE2胞外域吸引力，比SARS病毒高出10—20倍。
On February 15, the US National Institutes of Health (NIH), in collaboration with the Jason S. McLellan Research Group at the University of Texas at Austin, used freeze-mirror analysis to find that the S protein of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS virus has the same functional host cell ACE2, but its ACE2 extracellular attraction is 10-20 times higher than the SARS virus.
这仅仅是病毒传播力强解释的一方面。
This is only one aspect of the strong explanation for the virus's spread.
整个传播环节，包括病毒的入侵、脱壳、RNA转录合成、蛋白质翻译组装、病毒成熟、释放，都决定了传播能力。
The entire transmission chain, including virus intrusion, dehusking, RNA transcription synthesis, protein translation assembly, virus ripening and release, determines the ability to spread.
传播力强，说明病毒在人间具有很好的适应性，也许是时候改变我们周边的环境和自身的行为了。
High transmission means that the virus is well adapted to the world, and it may be time to change the environment around us and our behavior.
“1月22日后所得病毒序列均来自国外”新冠病毒是否在人群中持续进化？如果答案是否定的，病毒没有快速变异，对于抵抗疫情是个定心丸。
If the answer is no, the virus does not mutate rapidly and is a reassuring measure of resistance to the outbreak.
病毒传播力的变化，与病毒基因组序列的变化相关，这种变化的跟踪，需要科学家对疫情不同阶段、不同地区的病毒序列进行比对研究。
The change of virus transmission ability is related to the change of virus genome sequence, and the tracking of this change requires scientists to compare virus sequences in different stages and regions of the epidemic.
然而，这一工作的开展正受到阻滞。
However, the implementation of this work is being hampered.
“截至2020年2月10日，全球共有55条新型冠状病毒基因组数据公开发布，其中1月22日以前获取的31份测序数据几乎全部来自中国。
"As of February 10, 2020, 55 new coronavirus genomes have been released worldwide, with almost all of the 31 coronavirus genome data obtained before January 22 coming from China.
然而1月22日以后，余下的24份数据一律源于境外。
However, after 22 January, all the remaining 24 data came from outside the country.
”蒲慕明院士与吴仲义教授在上述评论中指出，“数据背景的断层，使我们很难在时间与地理上找到连续的规律”。
"Faults in the data context make it difficult to find consistent patterns in time and geography," said Prof Pu and Professor Wu Zhongyi in the comments.
首个将新冠病毒的序列公布在virological.org网站，供全球研究者共享的，是中国疾控中心研究员、复旦大学公共卫生学院兼职教授张永振的团队。
The first to post a sequence of the new crown virus on virological.org, shared by researchers around the world, was part-time professor Zhang Yongzhen, a researcher at the CDC and adjunct professor at Fudan University School of Public Health.
他们在北京时间1月11日上午提交了序列。
They submitted the sequence on the morning of January 11, Beijing time.
virological网站是一个病毒学、传染病学公开论坛。
Virological is an open forum on virology and epidemiology.
“尽管张永振团队提交的序列，没有样品收集日期，但他所做的贡献非常大，序列分析的非常好。
"Despite the sequence submitted by Zhang Yongzhen's team, there was no sample collection date, but his contribution was very large and the sequence was very good.
”张宝说，序列提交是非常重要的，相当于原始数据，是分析病毒变异进化、特性等工作的基础源泉，足够多的序列对于科学研究至关重要，“数据的质量，也是非常关键的，比如：样品的收集的日期、病人的地点，病人与病人之间的关系，病人疾病的状态等。
"Sequence submission is very important, equivalent to raw data, and is the basis for analyzing the evolution and characteristics of virus variation," Zhang said. "Sufficient sequences are essential for scientific research.
”然而，据上海公共卫生临床中心一位工作人员透露，张永振所在的上海公共卫生临床中心P3实验室，在1月12日之后，不知道是什么原因，重新申请活病毒的培养等相关的研究，无法得到批准，目前只能做一些临床检测。
However, according to a staff member at the Shanghai Public Health Clinic, Zhang Yung-jin's P3 laboratory, which is based at the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre, was unable to get approval for a new study after Jan. 12 to reapply for live-virus culture.
17年前的SARS疫情防控，可为此次疫情控制提供参考。
Seventeen years ago the SARS epidemic prevention and control, can provide a reference for this outbreak control.
但前提是需要更多的病毒基因组研究、序列发布，以便科学家对比这两种病毒，了解它们进化动态的差异。
But the premise is that more viral genomics research and sequencing is needed so that scientists can compare the two viruses and understand the differences in their evolutionary dynamics.
尽管新冠病毒尚未显示出活跃的变异性，但更多的数据研究对追寻传染源等大有帮助，正如蒲慕明院士与吴仲义教授在其评论文章中提醒：“鉴于当前疫情的严峻形势，选择不公开病毒相关的数据是有悖科研道德的。
Although the new crown virus has yet to show active variability, more data research can be of great help in tracking down the source of infection, as Academicians Pu Muming and Professor Wu Zhongyi warned in their commentary: "Given the current critical situation, it would be unethical to choose not to disclose virus-related data.
”【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Statement The copyright in this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer Systems Limited to enjoy exclusive rights to disseminate the information network.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
研究表明：新冠病毒可能于去年11月出现，近期变异不大。
Studies suggest that the new crown virus may have appeared last November, with little recent variation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "研究表明：新冠病毒可能于去年11月出现，近期变异不大";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Studies show that the new crown virus may have appeared last November, but did not mutate at all recently;;
var msg_desc = "新冠病毒一直在变异，研究者发现截至目前仍较缓和。
var msg _ desc = & quot; New Crown virus has been mutating, and researchers have found it relatively mild so far.
但鉴于当前疫情的严峻形势，共享病毒相关的数据对控疫更有帮助";。
But given the severity of the current outbreak, sharing virus-related data helped AT & quot; s service.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
