有人好几万，有人零自付，新冠肺炎医疗费这笔账怎么算？。
Tens of thousands of people, some people pay out of pocket, the new crown pneumonia medical expenses how does this account calculate?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
财政兜底实现患者“零自付”，保险理赔延展填补账单亏空。
Financial backend to achieve "zero out-of-pocket" insurance claims extension to cover the bill deficit.
如果不幸被新冠病毒击中，能免于因病致贫，对于不幸的微小个体而言，是这个寒冬疫情阴霾下的一抹温暖文｜《财经》记者 俞燕编辑｜袁满住了十天医院之后，经过连续两次病毒核酸检测为阴性、CT复查和专家会诊，武汉周边某市的女孩王晶（化名）终于收到了可以出院的通知。
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10: 50: 50 Wangjing (not named Wang), a girl from a city around Wuhan, received notification that she could be discharged after two consecutive negative viral nucleic acid tests, CT reviews and expert consultations.
十几天之前，王晶出现发烧症状。
Ten days ago, Wang Jing developed fever symptoms.
第二天，当体温飙升到38.6摄氏度，王晶心里渐渐生出“中招了”的预感。
The next day, when the temperature soared to 38.6 degrees Celsius, Wang Jingzhi grew into a premonition.
赶紧让家人把自己送到医院，挂了号，验了血，拍了CT。
Quickly let the family to send themselves to the hospital, hung up the number, blood test, took a CT.
一天后做了核酸检测和CT复查确诊，成为一名新冠肺炎患者，所幸属于轻症。
A day later, Nucleic acid test and CT reexamination confirmed that he became a patient with New Crown Pneumonia, fortunately belongs to a mild case.
亲友们在祝贺王晶康复之余，也有不少人关切地问她：治病花了多少钱？之前，在一篇刷屏的文章中，一名孕妇因不明原因肺炎，花光了20万元医药费，依然未能挽回生命，让人们印象深刻。
After congratulating Wang Jing on her recovery, many people asked her: How much did it cost to treat her? People were impressed by a screen-painting article in which a pregnant woman spent 200,000 yuan on medication for pneumonia, still unable to save her life.
20万元医药费，对于普通家庭来说，不是一个可以短时间内轻松掏出来的金额。
For average families, $200,000 is not an amount that can be easily taken out in a short time.
“免费治疗！”王晶很干脆地说。
"Free treatment!" Wang said bluntly.
王晶透露，除了第一次去医院时支付了验血和CT费用，确诊后的住院和治疗费用都不用自己花钱。
In addition to paying for a blood test and a CT scan at the time of her first visit to the hospital, Wang said the hospitalization and treatment costs were not self-funded.
不仅如此，住院期间的三餐也是免费提供，“伙食还不错，荤素搭配”。
In addition, three meals during hospitalization are also provided free of charge, "food is good, meat matching."
王晶是幸运的，成为自国家出台新冠肺炎医疗费用特殊报销政策后“零自付”群体中的一员。
Wang is fortunate to be part of the "zero-pays" group since the country introduced a special reimbursement policy for medical expenses for new crown pneumonia.
自从1月20日晚国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山重新出山，面对全国公众拉响了新冠肺炎“存在人传人现象”的警报，全国便由此进入抗疫状态。
Zhong Nan-shan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of the high-level group of experts of the National Fitness and Health Commission, has reappeared on the night of January 20, setting the nation on the alert for human-to-human transmission of new crown pneumonia.
近一个月里，各项抗疫政策逐渐清晰和完善。
In the past month, the various anti-epidemic policies gradually clear and perfect.
对于患者来说，最关注的政策莫过于医疗费用的报销政策。
For patients, no policy is more important than reimbursement of health-care costs.
与17年前的非典相比，新冠肺炎抗疫的诸多举措更加全面，对于患者的保障，也更加接地气。
Compared to SARS 17 years ago, the SARS response was more comprehensive, more patient-friendly, and more grounded.
“非典时国家也出台了相关的医疗救治扶持政策，但不如这次有这么多更具实操性的技术细节，比如，对于一线医护人员的补偿政策、异地就医患者的医疗费用结算，相关的费用结算报销流程也简化了。
"The SARS countries have also introduced supportive policies for medical treatment, but not as many more practical technical details as the compensation policy for front-line medical staff and the settlement of medical expenses for patients seeking medical treatment in remote areas, and the related cost-reimbursement process has been simplified.
”一位地方监管部门人士表示。
One local regulator said.
随着治愈的患者陆续出院，其医疗费用零自付的政策落地情况也逐渐明晰。
As cured patients continue to be discharged, the zero-out-of-pocket policy for medical costs has gradually become clear.
近日，多地披露了当地患者零自付政策落实的情况。
Recently, more than disclosed the implementation of the local patient pay-as-you-go policy.
据了解，从目前各地对新冠肺炎患者和疑似患者的医疗报销政策来看，基本上由基本医保报销、大病保险、医疗救助和个人自付等构成，而个人自付费用由当地财政兜底解决，医保部门或医院先行垫付，患者则实现了“零自付”。
It is understood that the current medical reimbursement policy for patients and suspected patients in the new crown pneumonia, basically consists of basic medical insurance reimbursement, major sickness insurance, medical assistance and personal out-of-pocket payments, while individual out-of-pocket expenses are covered by local financial outlays, medical insurance departments or hospitals advance payments, and patients achieve "zero out-of-pocket payments."
不过，由于新冠肺炎从症状出现到确诊再到免费救治政策出台，存在一定的“时间差”，此外，由于前期检测试剂盒不足，还有相当一部分有相关症状的患者被排除在确诊或疑似群体之外，因此有相当部分患者无法享受到“零自付”的待遇。
However, there is a "time lag" between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis and the introduction of a free treatment policy. In addition, due to a shortage of early detection kits, a significant proportion of patients with related symptoms are excluded from diagnosis or suspected groups, and thus a significant proportion of patients do not benefit from "zero-pays" treatment.
为了缓解患者的医疗费用压力，商业保险机构通过扩展保险责任、取消等待期和免赔额、免费赠送保险等措施，尽可能地让患者获得一定的风险保障。
In order to ease the pressure on patients' medical expenses, commercial insurance institutions offer patients as much risk protection as possible by extending their insurance liability, eliminating waiting periods and deductible amounts, and giving them free insurance.
在支持和鼓励保险机构在抗疫中发挥一方力量之时，监管部门亦同时勒紧了监管之缰，在监管刚性与人性关怀之间进行着平衡。
While supporting and encouraging insurance institutions to play a part in the fight against the epidemic, regulators have also tightened the regulatory rein, balancing regulatory rigidity with human concern.
“保险赔付虽能一定程度缓解出险客户和家庭的经济压力，但无法换回逝去的生命和健康。
"Insurance payments, while relieving financial stress on risky clients and households to some extent, cannot replace lost lives and health.
”在近期发布的一份通知中，银保监会以一种罕见的充满悲悯而又克制的口吻如是提醒，明确提出不得以商业为目的跟风炒作疫情，不得利用疫情事件营销以及利用舆情热点做广告。
In a recent notice, the CBRC warned in a rare, compassionate and restrained tone that it must not market outbreaks for commercial purposes, use epidemic events to market or use public opinion to advertise.
“时代中的一粒灰，落在个人那里，可能就是一座山。
"A speck of ashes from the age, falling on a person, may be a mountain.
”武汉当地著名作家方方在“封城系列日记”里写道。
Fang Fang, a famous local writer in Wuhan, wrote in the "Journal of the Enclosure Series."
在冰冷的统计数据背后是一个个家庭、一个个人，没有一个人愿意变成名单上的数字。
Behind the icy statistics are families and individuals, and no one wants to be on the list.
如果不幸被新冠病毒击中，能免于因病致贫，对于不幸的微小个体而言，是这个寒冬疫情阴霾下的一抹温暖。
If, unfortunately, hit by the new Crown virus, it saves the unfortunate little individual from poverty, it is a warm glow from the haze of this cold winter.
沉重的医疗费用2020年1月25日，武汉市红十字会医院的医护人员将一名患者接入医院。
Heavy medical expenses January 25, 2020, Wuhan City Red Cross Hospital medical staff will be a patient access to the hospital.
图/法新由于新冠肺炎最初起因不明，首批患者绝大部分都经历过在基层医院或小诊所看病，后又转院复诊。
Figure / AFP Due to the initial unknown causes of Newly Coronary Pneumonia, the majority of the first patients have experienced basic hospital or small clinic, and then referred to hospital for re-examination.
据《财经》记者了解，最多的甚至转院多达四次。
According to Caijing reporter, the most even transfer to the hospital as many as four times.
在最终确诊前，这些患者的病程从10天到20天不等。
Prior to the final diagnosis, the course of the patient's illness ranged from 10 to 20 days.
就诊和住院意味着医疗费开销。
Attendance and hospitalization mean medical expenses.
最初选择在小诊所或小医院看病，除了就近方便，不愿花太多的钱检查，也是这些处在社会底层的患者尤其是年老患者的普遍心态。
The initial choice of small clinics or hospitals, in addition to the proximity of convenience, unwilling to spend too much money to check-up, is also the general attitude of these patients at the bottom of society, particularly the elderly.
以CT检查为例，费用约为200元。
Take CT examination for example, the cost is about 200 yuan.
加之血常规检查、药品费乃至输液，每一次进出医院，对普通患者而言，亦是一笔不小的开销。
Combined with routine blood tests, drug charges and even transfusions, every visit to the hospital, for ordinary patients, is also a considerable expense.
疫情曝光初期，由于很多医院没有核酸检测试剂盒，很多出现肺炎症状的患者无法确诊为新冠肺炎。
In the early days of the outbreak, many patients with pneumonia could not be diagnosed as New Crown Pneumonia because many hospitals did not have nucleic acid test kits.
此外，亦有一些患者并不符合疾控中心最初制定的疑似病例的三个诊断标准。
In addition, some patients did not meet the CDC's original three diagnostic criteria for suspected cases.
对于这部分确诊和疑似名单之外的患者，其医疗费用只能自付。
For patients outside this part of the diagnosis and the suspected list, the medical expenses can only be covered out of pocket.
一家东部省份市级医院的一位临床医生表示，新冠肺炎疫情初期，正值冬季流感高发期，一些患者出现的症状与流感颇为相似，因此在初期一般给药多为左氧氟沙星等抗菌消炎药、奥司他韦等抗病毒药。
A clinician at a municipal hospital in the eastern provinces said the initial phase of the outbreak coincided with a high winter flu season, with some patients showing symptoms similar to those of influenza, so early doses were mostly antibacterial anti-inflammatory drugs such as levofloxacin and oseltamivir.
如果出现呼吸困难和肺炎症状，会用到激素治疗。
If dyspnea and pneumonia develop, hormone therapy is used.
重症患者可能需要上呼吸机，有时还要输丙种球蛋白以增强免疫力。
Severe cases may require a respirator and sometimes a gamma globulin to boost immunity.
每到流感季，被视为“流感神药”的奥司他韦往往出现销量和价格攀升。
Every flu season, oseltamivir, known as the "flu miracle drug," tends to see sales and prices rise.
《财经》记者从药品价格315网看到，10粒的零售价约为150元到190元不等。
According to Caijing, the retail price of 10 tablets ranges from 150 yuan to 190 yuan, according to Caijing 315.
如作为流感用药，疗程通常需5天。
If administered as flu medicine, the course usually takes five days.
如果需要用到静脉注射丙种球蛋白（IVIG），则2.5g的零售价格约为500元－750元。
If intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG) is required, the retail price of 2.5g is about $500 to $750.
如果在ICU使用呼吸机，则首日费用约为1500元，首日以后的每日费用为800元左右。
If the ventilator is used in ICU, the first day cost is about $1,500 and the daily cost after the first day is about $800.
如果还需用到机械循环辅助支持或体外循环膜氧合器（ECMO）即“人工肺”治疗，则首日费用约6万元，此后每日应用的费用约1000元。
If mechanical circulatory support or extracorporeal circulation membrane oxygenator (ECMO), or "artificial lung," is required, the first day will cost about $60,000, followed by a daily application fee of about $1,000.
加上后续的综合治疗，费用则高达约10万－20万元。
Combined with follow-up comprehensive treatment, the cost can be as high as about $100,000 to $200,000.
“一入医院深似海，从此钱包是路人。
"Once in the hospital like the sea, henceforth the wallet is passer-by.
”当患者踏入医院大门的那一刻，便意味着一张巨额账单将很快从天而降。
The minute a patient steps into a hospital gate, it means a huge bill is about to fall from the sky.
此前有报道称，一些重症患者在治疗期间每天需要打八瓶丙种球蛋白，托人在外面自费购买，花费不菲，还担心“不知能不能报销”。
There have been reports of severe cases requiring up to eight bottles of gamma globulin a day for treatment, sending people out to pay for them at their own expense, fearing "I wonder if they can be reimbursed."
据澎湃新闻报道，一名年轻孕妇，在发病到过世短短12天时间内，花费了20多万元。
According to roar news reports, a young pregnant woman spent more than 200,000 yuan between her onset of illness and her death in just 12 days.
除了参保的“新农合”保险报销了6万多元、社会筹款4万多元，其他费用由其家人四处借钱筹得。
In addition to the "New Farmers' Insurance" insurance covered, more than 60,000 yuan was reimbursed, more than 40,000 social fund-raising, and other expenses were raised by their families borrowing money from around the world.
最终，因为实在无处筹钱，而且妻子病情日益加重，丈夫只好签字放弃了治疗。
Eventually, with no money to raise and his wife becoming increasingly ill, the husband signed off on the treatment.
这名孕妇去世的当天，武汉市卫健委宣布，新冠肺炎确诊患者全部免费救治，发热门诊留观患者则享受零缴费。
The day the pregnant woman died, Wuhan Health Commission announced that all patients diagnosed with new crown pneumonia free of charge treatment, fever outpatient observation patients enjoy zero fees.
国家医保局出台了针对新冠肺炎确诊患者的特殊报销政策。
The NHS has introduced a special reimbursement policy for patients diagnosed with pneumonia in the New Crown.
不过对于这位孕妇患者来说，即使赶上了政策出台，也未必能享受到这项政策的红利，因为她的死因是重症肺炎导致的感染性休克和呼吸循环衰竭，至死未被确诊为新冠肺炎。
For the pregnant woman, however, the benefits of the policy are unlikely to be realized even if she overcomes the policy, as she died of infectious shock and respiratory failure from severe pneumonia to death without being diagnosed with pneumonia.
上述临床医生对《财经》记者表示，如果未经核酸试剂确诊，按照循证医学的要求，医院通常按普通肺炎进行收治。
The clinician told Caijing that, if not diagnosed with nucleic acid reagents, hospitals usually treat patients with ordinary pneumonia, as required by evidence-based medicine.
“如果没有入院确诊，这部分作为普通肺炎治疗的患者，在目前的统计口径里可能连疑似都算不上”。
"If there is no hospital admission, this part of the common pneumonia treatment patients, in the current statistical caliber may not even be suspected."
看到王晶零自付治疗后亦有出院的消息，一位有新冠肺炎相似症状的患者不由发出羡慕之声，由于其核酸检测两次都是阴性，最终被确诊为普通肺炎，除了社保报销的部分，所余检查、治疗和住院医疗费用只能自己买单。
Seeing the news that Wang had been discharged from hospital after receiving zero-sum out-of-pocket treatment, a patient with similar symptoms of New Crown Pneumonia was not envied. As his nucleic acid tests were negative twice and he was eventually diagnosed with ordinary pneumonia, he had to pay for the rest of the examination, treatment and hospitalization expenses except for the social security reimbursement.
据了解，针对新冠肺炎患者的特殊报销政策出台后，定点收治医院陆续向已入院的患者退还了预交的住院费。
It is understood that after the introduction of the special reimbursement policy for patients with new crown pneumonia, the designated hospital has returned to the hospitalized patients the prepaid hospital fees.
从目前各地披露的新冠肺炎患者的医疗费用来看，非危重患者的医疗费用在一二万元到三四万元不等。
Medical expenses for non-critically ill patients range from $12,000 to $40,000, according to the medical expenses disclosed for patients with pneumonia in the New Crown.
在国家兜底医疗费用的政策出台之前，在基本医保报销后，自费比例约有三到五成。
Prior to the introduction of the national health-care policy, out-of-pocket payments accounted for about 30 to 50 per cent after reimbursement of basic health care.
医疗费减负钟南山院士敲响疫情“人传人”的当日，国家卫健委宣布将新冠病毒纳入《传染病防治法》规定的乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施，由该病毒导致的肺炎纳入《国境卫生检疫法》规定的检疫传染病管理。
On the day that academician Zhong Nan Shan sounded the human-to-human transmission of the epidemic, the State Health Commission announced that it would include the new crown virus in the Class B infectious diseases stipulated in the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases, and take preventive and control measures against A infectious diseases.
第二天（1月21日），国家医保局发布公告称，对确诊为新冠肺炎患者采取特殊报销政策，将国家卫生健康委《新冠肺炎诊疗方案》覆盖的药品和医疗服务项目，全部临时纳入医保基金支付范围。
The following day (January 21), the NHS announced a special reimbursement policy for patients diagnosed with Newly Coronary Pneumonia (NCHP) by temporarily including all the drugs and medical services covered by the NCHC's New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program.
换言之，已确诊的新冠肺炎患者的相关医疗费由政府兜底，实施先救治后结算。
In other words, the government will carry out first aid and then settle the related medical expenses of the patients diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia.
随后，财政部与国家医保局联合发文，明确对新冠肺炎患者的医疗费用，在救助保障之外的个人负担部分由财政给予补助。
Subsequently, the Ministry of Finance, in a joint communication with the National Health Service, clarified that the medical expenses of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia and the personal burden beyond the assistance guarantee were partially subsidized by the financial assistance.
异地就医患者的社会医保报销，不执行异地转外就医支付比例的调减规定。
Social medical insurance reimbursement for patients in different places, do not implement the rate of relocation outside the medical treatment reduction provisions.
此外，医保基金的支付范围也进行扩容，符合卫生健康部门规定的肺炎诊疗方案，但使用药品和医疗服务项目此前并未纳入医保基金支付范围的，临时亦可纳入并执行支付。
In addition, the scope of payment of the health insurance fund has been expanded to conform to the Pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme prescribed by the health authorities, but the use of drugs and medical services that were not previously covered by the Medical Insurance Fund may be included and implemented on an ad hoc basis.
在新政之下，对于确诊的患者，除医保报销外，医疗费全由政府兜底。
Under the New Deal, the cost of care for patients diagnosed, with the exception of Medicare, was covered by the Government.
在各发热门诊留观的病人，门诊费亦由政府买单。
Outpatient care is also paid for by the Government in the case of visits to various fever clinics.
这意味着，从门诊到住院费用，全面实现了患者零自付。
This means that zero out-of-pocket payments for patients are fully realized, from outpatient to in-patient costs.
1月27日，国家医保局、财政部和国家卫健委进一步把疑似病例列入免费范围。
On 27 January, the National Health Service, the Ministry of Finance and the National Board of Health further extended free coverage to suspected cases.
不过疑似患者个人负担部分中央与地方财政的分摊比例，并未明确。
However, the proportion of the individual burden of suspected patients between central and local governments is not clear.
据了解，在国际上将法定传染病的治疗费用由公费承担，是一种通行做法。
It is understood that it is common practice to bear the cost of treatment of statutory infectious diseases internationally at public expense.
2013年，日本将H7N9型禽流感确定为“指定传染病”，其治疗费用由公费承担。
In 2013, Japan identified avian influenza H7N9 as a "designated infectious disease," the cost of which was covered by public funds.
本次新冠肺炎疫情发生后，日本、泰国、新加坡亦对境内的染疫患者实施公费治疗，且不分国籍。
After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Japan, Thailand, Singapore also on the territory of people suffering from infectious disease public treatment, regardless of nationality.
一位医界人士指出，根据我国的《传染病防治法》，中央财政对困难地区实施重大传染病防治项目给予补助，对患有特定传染病的困难人群实行医疗救助，可减免医疗费用。
According to the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the central treasury subsidizes the implementation of major infectious disease prevention and control projects in difficult areas, and provides medical assistance to people with specific infectious diseases, thus reducing or waiving medical expenses.
以往结核病之类的传染病的常规药费可予免费，但需在结核病防治所收治，而新药和辅助治疗的药费仍需自费。
Whereas in the past the cost of conventional drugs for infectious diseases such as tuberculosis was free of charge, treatment at tuberculosis clinics was required, and the cost of new drugs and supplementary treatment remained self-funded.
从本次疫情的诸项医疗费用减负措施来看，比《传染病防治法》的救助规定范围更大，更加具有普惠性，给予患者的救助非常给力。
The measures taken to reduce the burden of the epidemic's medical expenses are broader and more inclusive than those of the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act, and the assistance provided to patients is very effective.
近期，随着各地治愈出院的患者逐渐增多，对其医疗费用的报销情况陆续披露。
Recently, with the gradual increase in the number of patients cured and discharged from the hospital, the reimbursement of their medical expenses has been disclosed.
从各地通报的情况来看，医疗费用约为一万元左右，其中自付费用约为三成。
According to the information received from various places, the cost of medical treatment is about 10,000 yuan, of which about 30% is out of pocket.
如有基本医保、大病保险和医疗救助报销，则自付费用占比不到两成。
Fees out of pocket account for less than 20 per cent of claims for basic health care, major sickness insurance and medical assistance.
自付部分便由财政全部兜底。
The out-of-pocket part is financed entirely by the treasury.
“第一次体验到看病不花钱。
"The first experience of seeing a doctor costs nothing.
虽然生病不开心，但不用花钱，确实挺能减轻个人的经济压力。
Although sick and unhappy, but do not spend money, it does ease the financial pressure on individuals.
尤其是现在都还没复工，公司还不知能不能撑到发工资的时候。
Especially now has not returned to work, the company still does not know whether can support until the time of pay.
”王晶表示。
Mr Wang said.
一位地方监管部门人士表示，从针对本次疫情下发的救助政策来看，比非典时期具有更多的技术细节，保证了执行过程的可操作性，同时口子也开得很大。
A local regulator said the rescue plan for the current outbreak had more technical details than the SARS epidemic, ensured the implementation process was workable and opened wide.
再比如，救治新冠肺炎患者新增的医疗服务项目，不需经过新增项目立项程序，可由定点救治医疗机构直接确定使用，且可按照成本测算定价原则自行定价。
For example, the new medical service projects for patients with new crown pneumonia do not need to go through the project establishment procedures, can be directly determined and used by designated medical institutions, and can be priced according to the principle of cost estimation.
比如，允许市内调剂使用的中药自制剂，纳入医保支付范围。
For example, traditional Chinese medicine self-preparations allowed to be dispensed in the city are included in Medicare payments.
在异地就医方面，医保部门亦取消异地就医、转诊转院备案手续，个人住院费用由医保部门或医院先行垫付。
In other places, the medical insurance department also cancelled the medical treatment, the referral to the hospital record, the individual hospitalization costs by the medical insurance departments or hospitals.
为了减轻医疗机构垫付的压力，一些省市对定点收治医院预拨部分资金，并实时根据其申报需求预拨资金。
In order to alleviate the pressure on medical institutions to pay in advance, some provinces and municipalities pre-allocate part of their funds to designated hospitals and pre-allocate funds in real time according to their declared needs.
据了解，在经办服务方式上，各级社会医疗保障机构亦进行相应的调整，实行在线办理、绿色通道、长处方报销等多项服务创新。
It is understood that in the way services are handled, social security institutions at all levels have made corresponding adjustments, implementing on-line processing, green channels, long-prescription reimbursement and other service innovations.
除了国家卫健委和国家医保局联手火线救助患者，民政部亦于1月29日发文对低保、贫困的新冠肺炎患者，给予临时救助。
In addition to the National Health Commission and the National Health Service jointly rescue patients, the Ministry of Civil Affairs issued a letter on 29 January to the poor, low-income patients with new crown pneumonia, temporary relief.
此外，对于因探亲、旅游、务工等原因在非户籍地染疫并导致生活困难的流动人口患者，亦直接实施临时救助。
In addition, temporary assistance is provided directly to migrant workers who have contracted the disease in non-residential areas for reasons such as family visits, tourism or migrant workers and who are in a difficult situation.
“行动迅速，力度空前。
"Rapid action and unprecedented intensity.
”一位在县级政府部门工作的人士感叹。
"lamented a man working for a county-level government department.
据介绍，当地一名确诊患者在外地出差过程中染疫，便在出差所在地的医院就地治疗，经过十天的治疗顺利出院，无需体验昔日异地就医时复杂的报销程序。
A confirmed local patient who contracted the disease while on a business trip was discharged after 10 days of on-site treatment at a hospital where he was on mission, the report said.
商保不缺位疫情发生后，商业保险公司纷纷启动应急响应机制，迅速汇入抗疫大军。
After the outbreak of commercial insurance, commercial insurance companies have started the emergency response mechanism, quickly into the anti-epidemic army.
据了解，在新冠肺炎疫情发生之前，传染病并不涵盖在重疾险和医疗险的保险责任范围之中。
It is understood that prior to the outbreak of Crowne Pneumonia, infectious diseases were not covered by insurance coverage for serious diseases and medical insurance.
这意味着，即使购买了高达百万的医疗险，也未必能获得相应的赔付。
That means that even if you buy up to a million dollars in health insurance, you don't always get the payout.
一位寿险公司人士指出，医疗险有一定期限的等待期，并有免赔额的限制。
One life-insurance company pointed out that medical insurance has a limited waiting period and a deductible limit.
即使医疗险将传染病纳入赔付范围，但还要符合等待期和免赔额的要求。
Even though medical insurance covers communicable diseases, it is subject to waiting periods and deductible requirements.
更为重要的是，赔付的前提是该疾病获得确诊。
More importantly, payment presupposes that the disease has been diagnosed.
在疫情初期，由于检测试剂盒不足，以及一些患者的病征并不符合三项确诊标准，有相当一部分人并不在确诊之列。
At the beginning of the outbreak, a significant number of people were not diagnosed due to insufficient test kits and the fact that some patients did not meet the three criteria for diagnosis.
那么对于颇受消费者欢迎的重疾险，是否也可以为新冠肺炎买单呢？据了解，目前“急性呼吸窘迫综合征”是保险公司重疾险条款中常见的约定疾病，但新冠肺炎诊疗方案中所提及的其他疾病，在目前的重疾险产品中还较少涵盖。
So is it possible to pay for the new crown pneumonia, which is a popular disease among consumers? It is understood that acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a common conventional disease in the severe disease provisions of insurance companies, but other diseases mentioned in the new Crown Pneumonia diagnosis and treatment programme are less well covered by current severe disease products.
不过，一位寿险公司人士指出，因新冠肺炎引起的并发症如果涵盖重疾险的保障范围，则可得到赔付。
However, a life-insurance company said complications from pneumonia could be compensated if they covered coverage against serious illness.
此外，染疫患者去世，如其生前投保了定期寿险，则可以对其赔付身故保险。
In addition, a person suffering from the disease may be insured against death if he or she was insured against a periodic life insurance policy.
为了更好地发挥保险业在抗疫中的作用，2月3日，银保监会人身险部发文，支持人身保险公司在风险可控的前提下，在疾病险、医疗险等产品中针对新冠肺炎客户取消等待期、免赔额、定点医院等限制，并支持将意外险、疾病险等产品的保险责任范围扩展至新冠肺炎等。
In order to better play the role of the insurance industry in the fight against SARS, the Personal Insurance Department of the CBRC issued a letter on February 3 supporting life insurance companies to eliminate waiting periods, deductible amounts and fixed-point hospitals in products such as sickness insurance and medical insurance under the premise of controllable risk.
在新规之下，多家保险公司针对目前在售的医疗险、意外伤害险和重疾险等保险产品，取消了等待期、免赔额和定点医院等限制，扩充了针对新冠肺炎的相关责任赔付。
Under the new rules, several insurers extended liability payments for new crown pneumonia by eliminating waiting periods, deductible amounts and targeted hospitals for existing insurance products such as Medicare, accidental injury and serious illness.
确诊后的新冠肺炎如达到重症或危重症标准，亦可视为一次重大疾病，且不受等待期限制。
New crown pneumonia may also be considered a major disease if it meets the criteria of severe or critical illness and is not subject to a waiting period.
部分保险公司甚至在原保险责任不变的基础上额外给付基本保险金额的30％左右。
Some insurance companies even pay an additional 30 percent of the basic amount of insurance on the basis of unchanged liability.
复旦大学风险管理与保险学系主任许闲在《复旦金融评论》撰文指出，在现有的社会医疗保障框架之下，用国家兜底的形式解决了新冠肺炎患者的医治费用。
Xu Xian, head of the department of risk management and insurance at Fudan University, wrote in the Fudan Financial Review that the cost of treating patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia was covered by the state under the existing social security framework.
但商业保险亦可作为补充，为已确诊人群、疑似人群早期的医治费用提供补偿，也可为非患者的疫情恐慌和常规治疗费用提供相应的补偿。
However, commercial insurance can also be used as a supplement to compensate for the cost of early treatment for the identified and suspected population, as well as for non-patient panic attacks and routine treatment costs.
《财经》记者从多家保险公司获悉，在其理赔案件中，便有一部分来自新冠肺炎患者确诊前或界定为疑似患者前所发生的医疗费用。
Caijing has learned from many insurance companies that some of its claims come from pre-diagnosis or pre-diagnosis medical expenses.
“确诊之前的相关费用一般由个人负担，如果之前购买了医疗保险，是可以赔付这一部分费用。
"Costs associated with pre-diagnosis are generally a personal responsibility and can be covered if health insurance was previously purchased."
”一位保险公司人士表示。
"said one insurer.
在本次疫情中，亦有多家保险公司提供了每日300元－500元不等的住院补偿金。
In this outbreak, a number of insurance companies have provided daily between 300 yuan and 500 yuan in hospital compensation.
“这一部分住院补偿金相当于误工期间的收入，可以补偿一定程度的经济损失，对患者也是一种安慰。
"This part of the hospital compensation equivalent to the period of lost income, can compensate for a certain degree of economic loss, is also a comfort to patients.
”一位人身险公司人士表示。
"said a life insurance company person.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
有人好几万，有人零自付，新冠肺炎医疗费这笔账怎么算？。
Tens of thousands of people, some people pay out of pocket, the new crown pneumonia medical expenses how does this account calculate?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "有人好几万，有人零自付，新冠肺炎医疗费这笔账怎么算？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Tens of thousands; someone paying zero, how does New Crown Pneumonia pay its bills?;
var msg_desc = "财政兜底实现患者“零自付”，保险理赔延展填补账单亏空。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
如果不幸被新冠病毒击中，能免于因病致贫，对于不幸的微小个体而言，是这个寒冬疫情阴霾下的一抹温暖";。
And if, unfortunately, struck by the new Crown virus, it can save poor people from disease, it was a warm and quot; d against the haze of this winter's winter for hapless microscopic individuals.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
