传染病网络直报系统投资了7.3亿，为何失灵了28天？。
Why did the Communicable Disease Network's Direct Reporting System fail for 28 days, with $730 million invested?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
2020年1月24日以后，传染病网络直报系统在对各地的疫情信息上报、汇总，以及疫情整体的防控非常重要，但仍需进一步改善上报机制、监测系统过于繁复等问题文 |《财经》特派武汉记者 信娜 王小《财经》记者 孙爱民 辛颖编辑 |王小多位医学专家回顾此次疫情暴发早期的工作得失，不约而同提到2003年SARS疫情以后，中央和地方花费巨资建立的“传染病网络直报系统”并未充分发挥作用。
Since January 24, 2020, the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System has been very important in reporting and summarizing epidemic information and controlling the epidemic as a whole. However, many medical experts need to further improve the reporting mechanism and monitoring system.
2019年12月27日，湖北省中西医结合医院第一次口头向武汉市江汉区疾控中心上报不明原因肺炎病例。
On December 27, 2019, the Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital reported the first case of unexplained pneumonia orally to the CDC of Jianghan District, Wuhan.
三天后，武汉市卫健委医政医管处给该市各医疗机构下发一份紧急通知，“请各单位立即清查统计近一周接诊过的具有类似特点的不明原因肺炎病人，于今日下午4点前将统计表（盖章扫描件）报送至市卫健委医政医管处邮箱。
Three days later, the Medical and Medical Bureau of Wuhan Health Care Commission issued an urgent notice to all medical institutions in the city asking them to make an immediate inventory of patients with unexplained pneumonia with similar characteristics who had received medical treatment in the past week and submit the statistic forms (sealed and scanned) to the MCHMS mailbox by 4: 00 p.m. today.
”28天后，2020年1月24日，武汉“封城”后的第二天，中国疾病预防控制中心（ CCDC，下称“中国疾控中心”）“传染病网络直报系统新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎动态监测功能”上线。
Twenty-eight days later, on January 24, 2020, the day after Wuhan was closed, the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CCDC) came online with the "Dynamic Surveillance Function of Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection in the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System."
这一新功能，基于中国在2003年SARS疫情之后，由中央和地方共同投资约7.3亿元建立的“全国传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统”（下称网络直报系统），加入了新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的病例个案信息、诊治信息、感染来源等相关信息的快速报告。
This new function is based on the National Information System for Monitoring Infectious Diseases and Public Health Emergencies (NSCIS), set up by the Central Government and local governments with a total investment of about 730 million yuan after the SARS epidemic in 2003.
在1月20日，国家卫健委经国务院批准，将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎纳入《传染病防治法》规定的乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施。
On January 20, the State Council approved the State Council to include pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus in the Class B infectious diseases as stipulated in the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, and adopted measures for the prevention and control of Class A infectious diseases.
这是一个重要节点。
This is an important node.
按相关法规要求，乙类传染病按甲类管理，要求发现病例后2小时内网络报告，对于报告信息，需要2小时内完成三级确认审核。
As required by the relevant regulations, Class B infectious diseases are managed according to Category A, network reports are required within 2 hours of the discovery of a case, and 3-level validation audits are completed within 2 hours for reporting information.
但在1月24日新功能上线之前，网络直报系统并未充分发挥应有的作用。
But until the new features went live on January 24th, the network direct reporting system didn't work as well as it should.
包括疫情的中心武汉在内，大多数地方的新冠病毒感染者，在长达28天的时间内，主要通过口头、邮件、电话上报疫情。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, is the epicentre of most cases, reporting the outbreak orally, by mail and by telephone, for up to 28 days.
或者说，这套直报系统，在本次疫情最初扩散的28天，失灵了。
In other words, the system failed in the first 28 days of the epidemic.
“也不能说没发挥作用，至少在2020年1月24号以后，也就是湖北省I级响应之后，对各地的疫情信息上报、汇总，这套系统对于疫情整体的防控是非常重要的。
"It can't be said that it didn't work, at least after January 24, 2020, that is, after Hubei Province I response, to report and aggregate epidemic information across the region, and this system is very important for the overall prevention and control of the epidemic."
”中国疾控中心专家组成员、北京大学第一医院感染疾病科主任医师徐小元对《财经》记者说。
Xu Xiaoyuan, a member of the CDC team and director of infectious diseases at Peking University's First Hospital, told Caijing.
口头上报、邮箱上报和在线直报2019年12月24日，武汉中心医院的医生在穷尽常规治疗和检查后，一位65岁的男性发热患者病情仍没有好转的迹象。
Oral report, mailbox report and online direct report December 24, 2019, Wuhan central hospital doctors after exhausting routine treatment and examination, a 65-year-old male febrile patient is still not signs of improving.
起了疑心的主治医生为病人取样，并将样本送到一家第三方检测机构，进行基因检测。
Suspected attending physicians sample patients and send them to a third-party testing facility for genetic testing.
三日后（2019年12月27日），这家检测机构却“没敢给书面报告”， 只是电话告知武汉市中心医院检测结果为“冠状病毒，未分型”，该院急诊科一名工作人员告诉《财经》记者，“没有书面报告，没法上报，嘴上说的也不算数啊。
Three days later (December 27, 2019), the agency "did not dare to give a written report." Instead, it called Wuhan Central Hospital and told Caijing that the test results were "coronavirus, untyped," a staff member of the hospital's emergency department told Caijing.
”据悉，武汉中心医院的这例疑似案例最终没有上报直报系统。
It is reported that Wuhan Central Hospital this suspected case finally did not report the direct reporting system.
在他们接到检测样本口头结果的当天，湖北省中西医结合医院呼吸与重症医学科主任张继先在连续接诊数个症状相似病人，且均排除了已知常见病原体感染后，将病人情况汇报给院领导、医院院感办和医务部，医院随即口头上报武汉市江汉区疾控中心。
On the day they received the oral results, Zhang Jixian, director of the Department of Respiratory and Severe Medicine of Hubei Province Combined with Western Medicine, continued to treat several patients with similar symptoms.
一位甘肃疾控系统人士向《财经》记者分析，口头报告不能算正式报告，好比道听途说，疾控中心的工作人员也无法捕风捉影据此调查。
An Gansu disease-control official told Caijing that oral reports do not count as formal reports, as hearsay suggests, and CDC staff are unable to track them down.
但一旦形成规范报告，疾控中心就会开展调查，及早发现来龙去脉。
But once a formal report is made, the CDC conducts an investigation to find out what happened.
2003年非典疫情后，中国建立了一套传染病网络直报系统，以便在医院接诊传染病病人或疑似传染病病人后，能快速上报、审核，卫生部门与疾控系统也能快速分析、研判疫情。
In the wake of the SARS epidemic in 2003, China established a direct reporting system for infectious disease networks so that patients with infectious diseases or suspected infectious diseases can be reported to and examined by hospitals quickly, and the health department and disease control system can quickly analyze and judge the epidemic.
按照设计规划，这套庞大的信息系统理论上横向覆盖全国，纵向“到乡镇卫生院的电脑里都可以看到这个网络系统”。
According to the design plan, this huge information system theoretically horizontal coverage of the country, vertical "to township hospitals in the computer can see this network system."
程序是，一线医护人员只要发现传染性病例、不明原因肺炎，填写纸质或电子传染病报告卡，最终汇总至医院公共卫生科或院感部门，这些部门负责将病例录入直报系统。
The procedure is that first-line medical staff who detect infectious cases or pneumonia of unknown origin fill out a paper or electronic infectious disease report card and eventually summarize them in the public health or hospital departments, which are responsible for recording cases in the direct reporting system.
直报系统使用的是专线网络系统，实时的个案可直接报至中国疾控中心的数据中心，疾控中心有专人监测这些病例数据。
Direct reporting systems use dedicated line network systems, and real-time cases can be reported directly to the CDC's data center, which monitors the case data.
不过，多位一线临床医生向《财经》记者表示，直报系统复杂，不少医生没有经过培训，不知道如何有效使用。
However, a number of frontline clinicians told Caijing that the direct reporting system is complex and many doctors are not trained to use it effectively.
2020年1月初，武汉发布《武汉市不明原因病毒性肺炎应急监测方案》中提到了如何报告病例：对无法明确诊断的病例，应立即填写传染病报告卡，注明“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”，并进行网络直报。
In early January 2020, Wuhan issued the Emergency Monitoring Program for Unknown Causes of Viral Pneumonia in Wuhan City, referring to how to report cases: For cases that cannot be clearly diagnosed, an infectious disease report card should be filled out immediately, indicating "viral pneumonia of unknown cause," and a direct online report should be made.
直报系统中有“不明原因肺炎”子集。
There is a subset of "unspecified pneumonia" in the direct reporting system.
《财经》记者获得的一份“关于印发新冠肺炎诊疗和防控等方案的通知”显示，仍不能排除的疑似病例由医疗机构进行网络直报，病种选择“不明原因肺炎”。
A "Notice Concerning the Issuing of Programs for the Treatment and Prevention of New Crown Pneumonia," obtained by Caijing, shows that suspected cases that cannot be ruled out are reported directly on the Internet by medical institutions.
1月15日，国家卫健委陆续开始培训各省市医疗机构，如何排查疑似病例及使用直报系统。
On January 15, the National Fitness and Health Commission began training provincial and municipal medical institutions on how to detect suspected cases and use a direct reporting system.
三天后，武汉协和医院在内部培训中要求，医务人员发现符合观察病例定义的患者时，应立即(2小时内)进行网络直报。
Three days later, Wuhan Concorde Hospital requested in-house training that medical staff should report directly to the network immediately (within 2 hours) when they find patients who meet the definition of observed cases.
网络直报病种选择“人感染新型冠状病毒”，以“观察病例”类型上报。
The network directly reported the disease type selects "the person infects the new coronavirus", reports to "the observation case" type.
《财经》记者在采访中发现，网络直报并未真正在一线得到有效落实，即使是在处于疫情暴发中心的武汉市。
In an interview with Caijing, Caijing reporter found that direct online reporting has not been effectively implemented even in Wuhan city, which is at the epicenter of the outbreak.
距武汉协和医院3公里外，一家省级医院的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，1月20日前，其所在医院公共卫生科仅将整理的疑似病例，上报到地方卫健委及疾控中心。
Three kilometers away from Wuhan Heping Hospital, a provincial hospital worker told Caijing that by January 20, the public health department of his hospital had reported only suspected cases to local health committees and disease control centers.
之前，院内发现的十几例疑似病例并未在网络中直报。
Previously, the hospital found a dozen suspected cases did not report directly in the network.
云南的一家收治新冠肺炎定点医院的负责人对《财经》记者说，直到1月30日，发现的疑似患者仍然是通过电话告知卫健委和疾控中心。
Until Jan. 30, the suspected cases were still notified by telephone to the health committee and the CDC, the director of a designated hospital in Yunnan for treatment of pneumonia told Caijing.
另一种方式其实绕开了直报系统：武汉中南医院的一位临床医生向《财经》记者还原了该院的直报系统运营流程。
Another way is to bypass the direct reporting system: a clinician at Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital has restored the hospital's direct reporting system to Caijing.
他透露，之前碰到不明原因肺炎的情况，临床医生先上报给主任，主任报给院长，院长再向上报。
He revealed that previously encountered pneumonia due to unknown causes, clinicians first reported to the director, the director reported to the president, then to the president of the report.
医院不会通过系统直报到国家层面，而是报到市里或者省里。
Instead of reporting directly to the national level through the system, hospitals report to the city or province.
而且，临床判断会显示为诊断待查，电脑系统并不能直接识别，因而也不能直报。
Moreover, clinical judgment is shown to be diagnostic and the computer system is not directly recognizable and therefore not directly reportable.
武汉市江汉区疾控中心一名负责传染病报卡审核的工作人员侧面印证了这个说法，他告诉《财经》记者，最初的几家医院，可能将病情口头报给了区疾控中心的领导，但并未在传染病网络直报系统中填写、上报。
A CDC official in charge of infectious disease report card verification in Wuhan City confirmed the statement, telling Caijing that the first hospitals may have reported the disease orally to the CDC leadership, but did not fill it out and report it in the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System.
张继先所在的湖北中西医结合医院在上报江汉区疾控中心两天后，于2019年12月29日，又组织专家会诊后，直接向湖北省卫健委以及武汉市卫健委报告。
Zhang's Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital reported to the CDC of Jianghan District on December 29, 2019. After organizing an expert consultation, he reported directly to the Hubei Wei Bodyguard Committee and Wuhan Health Care Commission.
接到武汉中西医结合医院报告后，第二天（2019年12月30日），武汉市卫健委医政医管处发出一份紧急通知，要求各医疗机构立即清查统计近一周接诊过的具有类似特点的不明原因肺炎病人，于当日下午4点前将统计表盖章扫描，报送至市卫健委医政医管处邮箱。
After receiving the report from Wuhan Chinese and Western Medical Association, the following day (December 30, 2019), Wuhan Health Care Commission Medical and Medical Administration issued an urgent notice, requesting medical institutions to check immediately the treatment of patients with similar characteristics of unknown pneumonia, before 4: 00 p.m. the same day to the medical and medical management office of the City Health Commission.
2019年12月31日下午一点左右，武汉市卫健委发布通报：已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重。
At about 1 p.m. on December 31, 2019, the Wuhan Health Commission announced that 27 cases had been found, 7 of which were serious.
这些病例应来自于前一天收到的辖区各医院的上报邮件，是这场灾难中首次正式的疫情通报。
The cases, which should have come from reported mail from hospitals across the jurisdiction received the day before, were the first official notification of the disaster.
无论是张继先，还是医院，及至武汉市卫健委医政医管处发到医院的紧急通知，都没有提及网络直报系统。
Whether Zhang Jixian, or the hospital, and Wuhan Health Commission Medical and Medical Administration issued to the hospital emergency notice, do not mention the network direct reporting system.
也就是说，在灾疫初期，直到直报系统新功能出来前的28天内，直报系统相当于被旁置。
In other words, in the early stages of the epidemic, the direct reporting system was sidelined for 28 days until the new functionality of the direct reporting system came out.
中国疾控中心主任高福曾在2019年博鳌亚洲论坛全球健康论坛上说，“中国有很健全的信息系统，对于任何可疑的，包括新发或者再发的传染病等，卫生部门在6个小时之内会立刻知道，因为我们已经建立了覆盖全国全境的信息直报系统。
"China has a well-developed information system, and the health authorities will be aware of any suspicious cases, including new or re-emerging infectious diseases, within six hours, because we have a direct reporting system covering the whole country," Gao Fu, director of the China CDC, told the 2019 Boao Forum for Asia's Global Health Forum.
”为何不在线直报？传染病网络直报系统自2003年“非典”之际着手搭建，至2004年建成，由中央政府（2.5亿元）和地方政府（4.8亿元）共同出资。
Why not report directly online? The Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System was set up on the occasion of SARS in 2003 and completed in 2004, with co-financing by the central government (250 million yuan) and local governments (480 million yuan).
这些投资涵盖系统硬件和软件、网络访问、人员培训和程序员的薪水。
These investments cover system hardware and software, network access, staff training and programmer salaries.
医院为联通直报系统一年支付1300元上网费。
Hospitals pay $1,300 a year for the Unicom Direct Mail system.
直报系统下有6个子系统，法定传染病系统、突发公共卫生事件报告系统、专病管理系统、医院死亡病例报告系统、健康危险因素报告系统、疾病预防控制基本信息系统。
There are six subsystems under the Direct Reporting System, the Statutory Communicable Disease System, the Public Health Emergency Reporting System, the Specialized Disease Management System, the Hospital Deaths Reporting System, the Health Risk Factors Reporting System, and the Disease Prevention and Control Basic Information System.
要求是每日观察与报告异常事件，这样疫情可在第一时间上报至国家层面。
The requirement is to observe and report unusual events on a daily basis so that the outbreak can be reported to the national level at the first possible time.
例如，医生发现SARS病例，可以直接填写在这一系统法定传染病中乙类SARS栏目下。
For example, a doctor who discovers a SARS case can fill in the B-SARS field directly in this system.
“不管哪一科的医生，只要诊断出传染病，必须填写一张传染病报告卡，报医院防保科，由防保科上报CDC，不得有任何遗漏或者延误。
"Any doctor in any subject who has been diagnosed with an infectious disease must fill out an infectious disease report card and report it to the Preventive Health Section of the hospital, which will report it to the CDC without any omissions or delays.
实际上并没有纸质报告卡，应该网络直报，但医生为了避免出错往往先把他的诊断拍一个照片发防保科，确认后防保科就代劳发网络直报。
In fact, there is no paper report card, it should be reported directly online, but to avoid errors, doctors often take a photo of his diagnosis and send it to the Preventive Security Section, which confirms that it reports directly on behalf of the Network.
”上海一家医院感控科人员告诉《财经》记者。
A Shanghai-based hospital sensory-control officer told Caijing.
然而，2020年1月20日之前，新冠病毒肺炎是一个新发疾病，尚未被确认为“法定传染病”，因此不在系统中的法定传染病之列，无法上传至法定传染病系统中。
However, by January 20, 2020, pneumonia is a new disease that has not been recognized as a "statutory infectious disease" and is therefore not among the statutory infectious diseases in the system and cannot be uploaded into the statutory infectious diseases system.
这套系统中还设置了针对不明原因肺炎（Pneumonia of Unknown Etiology，PUE）的直报，也就是医生一旦发现符合设定条件的不明原因肺炎病例时，需要在这个系统上报。
The system also has a direct report on Pneumonia of Unknown Etiology (PUE), which doctors need to report to the system if they find an unidentified pneumonia that meets certain criteria.
初期官方称这些清查出的武汉病例为 “不明原因的病毒性肺炎”。
Early officials said these identified cases of Wuhan as "unknown causes of viral pneumonia."
中国疾控中心副主任冯子健2017年在《疾病监控》期刊上发文称，如果按照目前的病例定义，要求医生上报不明原因肺炎，“病例数将会有很多，不仅会增加临床医生以及疾控机构相关人员的工作负荷，也容易造成公共卫生资源的浪费”。
In 2017, Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, wrote in the Journal of Disease Surveillance that if doctors were required to report unexplained pneumonia, "the number of cases would increase not only the workload of clinicians and disease controllers, but also the waste of public health resources."
卫生部门对“不明原因肺炎”病例的定义有4条：发热，腋下体温≥38℃；具有肺炎的影像学特征；发病早期白细胞总数降低或正常，或淋巴细胞分类计数减少；经规范抗菌药物治疗3-5 天，病情无明显改善或呈进行性加重。
The health authorities have defined four cases of "unexplained pneumonia": fever, armpit temperature at 38 ° C; imaging features of pneumonia; decreased or normal leukocyte count or reduced lymphocyte classification in the early stages of onset; and no significant improvement or progressive increase in the number of lymphocytes treated with standardized antimicrobial drugs for 3-5 days.
发现符合上述四条的病例后，医疗机构要在12小时内组织本单位专家组进行会诊和排查。
If a case is found to fall within the four above-mentioned articles, the medical institution shall organize a consultation and check-up by its own expert group within 12 hours.
仍不能明确诊断的，应立即填写传染病报告卡，注明“不明原因肺炎” 并向疾控系统网络直报。
If the diagnosis is still not clear, fill out the infectious disease report card immediately, indicate "unknown pneumonia" and report directly to the disease control system network.
武汉某三甲医院呼吸科医生对《财经》记者说：“如果没有弄明白是什么原因，怎么可能通过直报系统向上报？”疾病防控体系上报机制是属地垂直，管理分级，分国家级、地方级、县级和乡镇级，各级疾病防控中心与同级的卫生行政部门进行信息的通报与反馈。
"If it is not clear what the reason is, how can it be reported through a direct reporting system?" The disease control system reports are vertical, hierarchical, at the national, local, county and township levels, and information is communicated and fed back by disease control centers at all levels and by the health administration at the same level, "Caijing told Caijing.
武汉中心医院、中西医结合医院都在武汉市江汉区。
Wuhan Central Hospital, the combination of Chinese and Western medicine hospitals in Wuhan Jianghan District.
如果江汉区疾控中心将医院报告的病例录入直报系统，只有武汉、湖北和国家疾控能看到，其他省份看不到湖北的信息。
Only Wuhan, Hubei and National CDC can see that other provinces can not see Hubei if the CDC enters the cases reported by the hospital into the direct reporting system.
业内的规则是，“一般先口头汇报，因为书面汇报需有一个流程。
The rule in the industry is "to report orally first, because a written report requires a process.
”湖北中西医结合医院一名工作人员告诉《财经》记者。
"Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital staff told Caijing.
武汉市江汉区疾控中心上述负责传染病报卡审核的工作人员向《财经》记者证实了这一说法，传染病疫情的上报虽然是自下而上，可是对于这些新型疾病，如果要通过系统上报，首先要由上级疾控部门、卫生部门组织的专家会诊，等专家们确定了疾病，下面的医疗机构才可以通过疾控直报系统上报。
The CDC staff in charge of infectious disease report card verification confirmed this statement to Caijing. However, if the epidemic is to be reported through the system, experts from the disease control departments at higher levels and health departments should first consult experts, and so on.
“监测报告的程序太复杂了，需要逐级排查、采样监控等，报告与处理的压力都很大。
"The process of monitoring reports is too complex, requiring step-by-step screening, sample monitoring, etc., and the pressure to report and process is high.
而且，这套系统本是监测SARS与人禽流感的，这么多年没发生（疫情）了，医疗机构已经普遍不当回事，虽然疾控中心每年也会对下属的疾控人员、医院进行培训，差不多都是走过场。
And the system, which monitors SARS and human bird flu, has been largely ignored by health-care providers for years, although the CDC trains its disease controllers and hospitals every year, almost in a formality.
”一位疾控系统医师对《财经》记者说。
'A disease-control physician told Caijing.
还有一个原因是，“医院内检测到的病原体，系统会直接跳出上报对话框。
Another reason is that the "hospital detected in the pathogen, the system will jump out of the report dialog box.
但是委托医院外其他检测公司检测的病原体，系统里就不会跳出上报对话框。
But if you entrust someone outside the hospital to detect a pathogen tested by a company, the system will not jump out of the reporting dialog box.
”武汉某三甲医院一位呼吸科医生说，这时候不可能在电脑系统中填报，需要进行人工报告，一般先报告给院感控科。
A ventilator at a Wuhan Sanjia hospital said it was impossible to fill in the computer system at this time, requiring manual reporting, usually to the Induction Control Section.
因此，虽然中国疾控中心有专人监控直报系统的数据，每两小时之内必须登录系统巡视，根据病例数据作出相应的反应，但在源头上的上报就是缓一步的。
Therefore, although the CDC has special personnel to monitor the data of the direct reporting system, every two hours must be logged into the system patrol, according to the case data to respond accordingly, but the reporting at the source is a slow step.
“我不知道有这个系统”2020年2月22日，《财经》记者分别采访了六名武汉三级医院医生，均表示没有听说过不明原因肺炎上报系统，在实际中也从未使用过。
"I didn't know there was such a system." On February 22, 2020, Caijing interviewed six doctors at Wuhan Level 3 Hospital, all of whom said they had no knowledge of the system and had never used it in practice.
中央和地方花大价钱建立直报系统的初衷，正如中国疾控中心介绍这套系统时所言，是为弥补“2003年，一场突如其来的SARS疫情灾难，暴露出我国公共卫生信息系统发展滞后，信息不通、决策迟缓、指挥不灵等薄弱环节”。
The central and local governments spent a lot of money to set up direct reporting systems, as the China CDC said when introducing the system, in order to make up for "a sudden SARS disaster in 2003, which exposed the weakness of China's public health information system, lack of information, slow decision-making and poor command."
据中国疾控中心官网文章，中国首次报告发现3例人感染H7N9禽流感确诊病例在2013年3月31日，时任中国疾控中心卫生应急中心主任冯子健介绍，此次疫情发现，源于主动监测。
China first reported three confirmed cases of human infection with H7N9 avian influenza on March 31, 2013, according to an article on the website of the China CDC.
最早报告的3例病例，1例通过不明原因肺炎监测系统发现，2例通过国家重大传染病监测系统发现。
The first three cases were reported, one case was detected through the Unexplained Pneumonia Surveillance System and two cases were detected through the National Surveillance System for Major Infectious Diseases.
然而，冯子健、向妮娟等人在2017年发表的一篇论文中提及，对安徽省两家三甲医院的不明原因肺炎监测系统研究后，发现两家医院的2619例急性呼吸道感染病例中，筛选出335例符合不明原因肺炎病例的标准，只有1例上报至当地市疾控中心。
However, Feng Zijian, Xianjuan and others mentioned in a paper published in 2017 that a study of the unexplained pneumonia surveillance system in two triple-A hospitals in Anhui Province found that 335 cases of acute respiratory infection in two hospitals met the criteria for unspecified pneumonia, and only one case was reported to the local CDC.
在对未将符合PUE定义的病例上报的管床医生进行调查后发现：76%不知道有不明原因肺炎监测这项工作，53%不理解PUE病例定义。
An investigation of tube-beds doctors who did not report cases falling within the PUE definition revealed that 76 per cent did not know about the monitoring of pneumonia for unknown reasons and 53 per cent did not understand the PUE case definition.
“不明原因肺炎监测在地方医院的运行效率太低，有一年我们从一个直辖市2家医院的住院系统中，找到了8例符合不明原因肺炎定义的病例，这8例都没有上报过，当时该市260多家医疗机构，一共才上报了8例。
"Unknown causes of pneumonia are poorly monitored at local hospitals. One year we found eight cases from the hospital system of two hospitals directly under the central government that met the definition of unexplained pneumonia. None of the eight cases were reported at the time, when there were more than 260 medical institutions in the city.
这说明更多病例根本就没上报。
This means that more cases are not reported at all.
”上述疾控系统医师说。
"said the disease-control physician.
在上述2017年的论文中，冯子健建议，应考虑对现有的监测方案进行修改，如在现有PUE病例定义的基础上加入流行病学危险因素暴露史条件，以提高病例定义的特异性，减少临床医生的报告压力，从而提高对监测方案操作流程要求的依从性。
In the above-mentioned 2017 paper, Feng Zijian suggested that consideration should be given to modifying existing monitoring programmes, such as adding epidemiological risk factor exposure history conditions to the existing PUE case definition in order to increase the specificity of the case definition and reduce the reporting pressure on clinicians, thereby increasing compliance with the operational process requirements for monitoring programmes.
一位中国疾控中心专家组成员对《财经》记者分析，“在新冠肺炎疫情发展初期，这个直报系统几乎没发生什么作用，毕竟这是一个新发的病毒，连专家们都拿不准，基层的接诊医院与疾控部门更搞不清楚，从症状看跟其他的肺炎、甚至跟流感都有相似性。
A CDC expert group member told Caijing that "in the early days of the outbreak, this direct reporting system did little. After all, it was a new virus, and experts were not sure.
”据中国疾控中心官网2019年8月5日转发的一篇报道称，目前，网络直报系统覆盖了全国所有县级以上疾病预防控制机构，同时覆盖98%的县级医疗机构和96％的乡镇卫生院。
According to a report on Aug. 5, 2019 by the CDC, the online direct reporting system now covers all county-level and above disease prevention and control facilities, as well as 98 per cent of district-level and 96 per cent of township hospitals.
2020年2月23日，中共中央总书记习近平“在统筹推进新冠肺炎疫情防控和经济社会发展工作部署会议”上讲话指出：“在这次应对疫情中，暴露出我国在重大疫情防控体制机制、公共卫生应急管理体系等方面存在的明显短板，要总结经验、吸取教训，深入研究如何强化公共卫生法治保障、改革完善疾病预防控制体系、改革完善重大疫情防控救治体系、健全重大疾病医疗保险和救助制度、健全统一的应急物资保障体系等重大问题，抓紧补短板、堵漏洞、强弱项，提高应对突发重大公共卫生事件的能力和水平。
On February 23, 2020, the General Secretary of the CPC, Xi Jinping, speaking at the Deploy Conference on Managing the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic and Economic and Social Development, said: "In this response, we should draw lessons and learn lessons, study how to strengthen the public health prevention and control system, improve major disease medical insurance and rescue systems and improve the emergency material support system.
”新功能如何更好走起来正月初三（2020年1月27日），距离武汉约600公里的陕西省商洛市山阳县，卫健局副局长徐毓才，意识到自己的工作节奏又要调整了。
Xu Yucai, deputy director of the Wei health bureau in Shanyang County, Shanlo City, Shanxi Province, about 600 kilometers from Wuhan, realized that his pace of work would have to be adjusted.
这天，《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第四版)》发布，要求医务人员发现符合病例定义的疑似病例后，经院内专家会诊或主诊医师会诊，仍考虑疑似病例，在2小时内进行网络直报 。
On this day, the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 4) requires medical staff to report suspected cases of coronavirus infection within 2 hours after consultation by hospital specialists or attending doctors.
这意味着，疑似病例的诊断权限下放了，“普通医院的专家，甚至医院里面的医生几个人一商量，能报就直报了。
This means that diagnostic authority for suspected cases has been decentralized and that "specialists in general hospitals, and even doctors in hospitals, can report straight after consultation."
”徐毓才对《财经》记者分析，之前对新冠肺炎的排查要求比较严格，疑似病例必须通过县一级的专家会诊，评估之后才能在疾控直报系统上报告。
Xu Yuk-cai's analysis of Caijing said the previous clearance requirements for new crown pneumonia were strict and suspected cases had to be consulted by experts at the county level before being reported on the CDC system.
此时，新冠肺炎的病例，是直报到传染病网络直报系统新冠肺炎动态监测功能。
At this point, the case of new crown pneumonia, is directly reported to the infectious diseases network direct reporting system of dynamic monitoring of new crown pneumonia.
网上直报之后，整个疾控系统都能看到。
After direct online reporting, the entire disease control system can be seen.
这一功能在1月24日上线，可实现新型肺炎的病例个案信息、诊治信息、感染来源等相关信息的快速报告。
This function went live on January 24, can realize the new pneumonia case information, diagnosis and treatment information, the source of infection and other related information to report quickly.
不过，新系统运行后，医院进行网上直报的同时，有地方还要求电话通知区疾控中心备案；“医院里的各类监测系统太多，有流感的监测、呼吸道感染病例的监测，还有法定传染病的监测，这些病的定义、临床特征本身就相互交叉，除了法定传染病的监控外，其他的监测，基层的医生大多数时候只能多一事不如少一事了。
However, when the new system comes into operation, hospitals will be required to notify the CDC of all kinds of monitoring systems on the Internet at the same time as they do online. "There are too many types of surveillance systems in hospitals, such as influenza surveillance, respiratory infection surveillance and statutory infectious disease surveillance.
”一名正在援助西北地区某地级市疾控部门的工作人员对《财经》记者说。
A staff member who is assisting the CDC in a northwestern city told Caijing.
1月25日，中国疾控中心、国家卫健委派出工作人员分赴各地进行培训新上线的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎动态监测系统。
On January 25, China's CDC and State Health sent staff to various places to conduct training for the new coronavirus infection on the new dynamic monitoring system of pneumonia.
派出的国家队到地方后，组织视频培训会，一般培训一次1个多小时，主要是讲解新系统上报的流程、技术维护。
When the national team is sent to a local area, it organizes a video training session, usually lasting more than one hour at a time, focusing on the process and technical maintenance of the new system.
上述疾控部门援助人员告诉《财经》记者，当地疾控工作人员、医生对不明肺炎监控系统完全不知晓，“幸亏现在有新冠肺炎网络直报系统，要不然只能电话向上级每天报告、填各种表格”。
CDC aid workers told Caijing that local disease control staff and doctors were completely unaware of the unidentified pneumonia surveillance system. "Thanks to the Direct Reporting System for New Crown Pneumonia, we would be able to report to our superiors and fill out forms every day," Caijing told Caijing.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
传染病网络直报系统投资了7.3亿，为何失灵了28天？。
Why did the Communicable Disease Network's Direct Reporting System fail for 28 days, with $730 million invested?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "传染病网络直报系统投资了7.3亿，为何失灵了28天？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "2020年1月24日以后，传染病网络直报系统在对各地的疫情信息上报、汇总，以及疫情整体的防控非常重要，但仍需进一步改善上报机制、监测系统过于繁复等问题";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
