韩国飞中国航班爆满，多城市加强入境人员防疫。
South Korean flights to China full, multi-city strengthening of immigration personnel immunization.
陈晓双。
Chen Xiaoshuang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：陈晓双“ 2月25日，首尔中转日本到青岛的经济舱单程机票含税价格一度破万元。
Reporter: Chen Xiaoshuang "Feb. 25, Seoul to the city of Qingdao economy class one-way ticket including the tax price once broke yuan.
”韩国中央防疫对策本部25日通报,截至当地时间当天下午4时,韩国较当天上午9时新增84例新冠肺炎确诊病例,累计确诊病例达977例,共出现10例死亡病例。
As of 4: 00 p.m. local time, the Republic of Korea had added 84 new cases of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia, with a total of 977 confirmed cases and 10 deaths, the ministry said Tuesday.
韩国疫情形势严峻，中韩航线运力变得紧张。
South Korea's situation is grim, the shipping capacity between China and South Korea has become tense.
携程机票数据显示，今年2月15日-2月24日，韩国飞中国的机票预订量及订单出行人次持续增长。
From Feb. 15 to Feb. 24, the number of air-ticket reservations and orders from South Korea to China continued to grow, according to Ctrip data.
尤其是，2月24日预订量环比前一天增长了近六成，出行人次环比增长超过五成。
In particular, bookings on Feb. 24 were up nearly 60% from the previous day, and the number of trips rose by more than 50%.
与2月15日相比较，预订量增长了1.5倍左右，出行人次增长也超过了1倍。
Compared with February 15, bookings grew by a factor of 1.5 and the number of trips more than doubled.
据去哪儿网数据显示，因疫情发酵，韩国回国机票确出现急速上涨。
According to where the net data show, due to the outbreak of fermentation, Korean home tickets do rise sharply.
截至目前，虽然中国往返韩国的航班总量大，但执行率仅在20%左右。
So far, while China has a large number of flights to and from South Korea, the implementation rate is only about 20 per cent.
大量航班没有恢复，突然的需求上涨导致航班价格瞬间攀升。
A large number of flights did not resume, and sudden increases in demand caused flight prices to skyrocket.
2月25日，首尔中转日本至青岛的经济舱单程机票含税价格一度破万元。
On Feb. 25, Seoul's economy-class one-way ticket to Qingdao via Japan included a tax price of one million yuan.
这对于去年同期成交价格在500-700元来说可谓“天价”。
For the same period last year, the transaction price of 500-700 yuan can be described as "sky-high."
但随着航空公司因需求上涨不断恢复航班，价格目前已回落。
But prices are falling as airlines resume flights amid rising demand.
“目前2月25日尚有一班晚上9点起飞的航班，最低含税价格在3400元左右。
"There is one flight on Feb. 25 that leaves at 9pm and the minimum tax is around 3,400 yuan.
”去哪儿网相关负责人说。
"said the person in charge of the website.
通过去哪儿网平台搜索，2月26日、27日起飞的该航线航班，能够购买到低于2000元的含税直飞机票。
Through the Internet platform to search, February 26, 27 to take off the flight, can purchase less than 2,000 yuan tax-free direct air tickets.
据飞友科技AirSavvi数据显示，2月19日至25日，韩国通航中国内地执行航班座位数最多的城市是北京，共执飞45个航班，座位数达到9712个；青岛以41个航班和8242个座位排名第二；上海排名第三，两机场共31个航班5797个座位。
From Feb. 19 to 25, the most heavily traveled Chinese city was Beijing, with 45 flights with 9,712 seats, Qingdao ranked second with 41 flights and 8,242 seats, and Shanghai was third, with 31 flights with 5,797 seats, according to Flying Friends Air Savvi.
不过此前受疫情影响中韩航线大幅削减，2月19日至25日，韩国通航执飞航班座位量排名前三的国家是日本、越南和菲律宾，中国内地排名第八。
But China and South Korea, previously affected by the outbreak, have been slashed, with Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines in the top three spots on flights from Feb. 19 to Feb. 25, with China in eighth place.
国内各城市也加强对入境人员的防疫措施，严防疫情输入。
All cities in China have also stepped up anti-epidemic measures for people entering the country to strictly prevent the importation of epidemic diseases.
据民航青岛监管局，青岛机场成立了现场指挥部，与海关、移民局联防联控，设立了专门的停靠廊桥，对专门廊桥进行统一消毒。
According to the Qingdao Supervisory Authority of Civil Aviation, Qingdao Airport has set up an on-site command, with the joint control of the Customs and Immigration Bureau, set up a special dock bridge to carry out uniform disinfection.
青岛航空等航空公司加大执飞韩国至青岛航班的防控力度，实行指定专门乘务组人员执飞韩国航班、增配应急情况下使用的隔离服、加大航后消毒等级等措施手段，确保严防严控。
Qingdao Airlines, among others, has increased its efforts to prevent and control flights from the Republic of Korea to Qingdao by assigning special crew members to conduct flights to the Republic of Korea, adding quarantine suits for emergency situations and increasing the level of disinfection after the flight to ensure strict control.
青岛自2月24日开始，对所有入境人员，除需要隔离或留观的外，均由居住地所在区市派车接回，对在境内有居所的人员，居家隔离观察14天；对商务旅游等短期居住的，安排在指定宾馆入住、活动。
Qingdao from February 24, except for those who need isolation or observation, will be sent back by car by the city where they live, and residential residents will be kept in quarantine for 14 days. Those who live for short periods, such as business tourism, will be arranged to stay and move in designated hotels.
威海要求2月25日起，对从日本、韩国等国家来威海的入境人员，包括外籍人员和中方人员，全部统一接到宾馆免费集中居住，14天后解除集中居住。
Since February 25, Wei Hai has demanded that all incoming migrants from Japan and the Republic of Korea, including foreign nationals and Chinese nationals, be unified and housed free of charge in hotels.
吉林延边表示加强机场的海关、疾控、公安检查的联防联控工作；对从韩国来延人员由各县（市）统一接送，相关人员的亲友及其他社会车辆不允许到机场接机；州内景点暂不开放，各旅行社不接团、组团，不接韩国旅游团。
Jilin Yanbian said that joint control of customs, disease control and public security inspection should be strengthened. People coming from the Republic of Korea are transported uniformly from all counties (cities). Relatives, friends and other social vehicles are not allowed to pick up flights at the airport.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国飞中国航班爆满，多城市加强入境人员防疫。
South Korean flights to China full, multi-city strengthening of immigration personnel immunization.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国飞中国航班爆满，多城市加强入境人员防疫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; South Korea's flight to China was full, and multi-city immigration service & quot;
var msg_desc = "2月25日，首尔中转日本到青岛的经济舱单程机票含税价格一度破万元。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Seoul's one-way economy-class air ticket to Qingdao via Japan cost $1, 000 a year on February 25.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
