意大利确诊229例死亡7例，韩国检测“新天地”全体信众。
Italy confirmed 229 cases of death 7 cases, South Korea test "Xintiandi" all believers.
界面天下。
Interface world.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
意大利米兰街头。
The streets of Milan, Italy.
图片来源：半岛电视台“ 全球新冠肺炎疫情播报，持续更新。
Source: Al Jazeera's "Global Newly Crowded Pneumonia Report," updated continuously.
”（本文持续更新中，点击左下角阅读原文，实时跟踪国际疫情动态。
(This article is continuously updated by clicking on the lower left corner to read the original text to track the international epidemic in real time.
文中段首所示时间为本文更新时间。
The time shown at the beginning of the middle paragraph is for this article.
）意大利0800 【意大利新冠肺炎死亡病例增至七例，累计确诊229例】据意大利安莎通讯社消息，该国北部新增一例新冠肺炎死亡病例。
Italy's new crown pneumonia has led to seven deaths, with 229 cases confirmed, according to the Italian news agency ANSA.
死者是一名80岁男性，上周因心脏病被送往洛迪市一所医院。
The victim, an 80-year-old man, was taken to a hospital in Lodi last week after suffering a heart attack.
当地医生认为该患者是被另一名患者感染。
Local doctors believe the patient was infected by another patient.
另有一名意大利患者治愈出院，目前意大利确诊人数达229例，是欧洲疫情最严重的国家。
Another Italian patient has been cured and now has 229 confirmed cases in Italy, the worst case in Europe.
确诊病例中有172例集中在伦巴第大区。
Of the confirmed cases, 172 were concentrated in the Lombardy region.
而传染源——“零号病人”尚未被发现。
And the source of infection - "patient zero" has not been found.
西班牙0800【西班牙确诊第三例新冠肺炎确诊病例】据央视新闻消息，当地时间24日晚，西班牙确诊第三例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Spain confirmed its third confirmed case of new crown pneumonia on Thursday night, CCTV news reported.
该名患者是在加纳利群岛特内里费岛南部度假的一名意大利医生，之前他因身体不适而去了当地一家私人诊所，之后他的冠状病毒检测呈阳性。
The patient, an Italian doctor on vacation in southern Tenerife, Canary Islands, was tested positive for coronavirus after he went to a private clinic in the Canary Islands.
此前西班牙曾有两例新冠肺炎确诊病例，均已治愈出院。
There have been two confirmed cases of pneumonia in Spain, all of which have been cured.
法国0800【法国11名确诊患者全部出院】据中新社消息，法国卫生部长维兰当地时间24日晚宣布，法国11名新冠肺炎确诊患者已经全部出院。
France's 11 confirmed cases of pneumonia have been discharged from hospital, French Health Minister Jean-Pierre Villian announced Thursday night.
这意味着法国除了一名患者去世外，其他已知确诊患者均被治愈。
This means that all but one of the patients in France who are known to be diagnosed have been cured.
维兰说，最后一名仍在住院的患者当天治愈，不再具有传染性，可以出院。
Whelan said the last patient is still hospitalized the same day cured, no longer infectious, can be discharged.
截至目前，法国12名新冠肺炎确诊患者中，一名来自中国湖北的80岁患者医治无效去世，其余11名确诊患者最近几天陆续出院。
So far, one 80-year-old patient from Hubei, China, has died of pneumonia in France, and the remaining 11 patients have been discharged in recent days.
维兰说，法国目前没有新的确诊病例，也没有病毒流行传播的迹象。
There are no new confirmed cases in France and there are no signs of the virus spreading, Whelan said.
斯洛伐克0800【斯洛伐克总理辟谣：未得新冠肺炎】近日，针对多家媒体关于斯洛伐克总理佩列格里尼疑似感染新冠肺炎的报道，2月24日晚上，佩列格里尼在其社交媒体账号上表示，“有人在推特上炮制我感染新冠肺炎的恶作剧。
Slovak Prime Minister Dmitry Pneumonia Says Slovak Prime Minister Aleksandr Pellegrini "Someone on Twitter concocted a hoax about my new crown pneumonia," Pellegrini told his social media account on the night of Feb. 24.
真是一派胡言！”2月22日晚间，佩列格里尼因高烧和急性上呼吸道感染被送往医院接受治疗，并暂时取消了此后的行程安排，总理办公室于23日发表声明确认了这一情况。
What nonsense! "On the night of February 22, Pellegrini was taken to hospital with a high fever and an acute upper respiratory infection, and the subsequent schedule was temporarily cancelled, as confirmed in a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office on 23 February.
由于近日新冠肺炎在一些欧洲国家的扩散，这一声明立即引发了外界的猜测。
The announcement immediately sparked speculation over the recent spread of pneumonia in some European countries.
截至发稿，斯洛伐克全国并无新冠肺炎确诊病例。
As of the date of writing, there are no confirmed cases of NCP in Slovakia.
伊朗0800 【伊朗库姆地区21名新冠肺炎感染者康复出院】据央视新闻援引伊朗媒体报道，伊朗卫生部库姆地区代表宣布，截至24日库姆已经有21名新冠肺炎感染者康复出院。
Iran's Qom district has released 21 newly infected people with pneumonia as of the 24th, state media reported, citing Iranian media reports.
目前库姆两家指定医院中，共有320名疑似感染病例。
At present, there are 320 suspected cases in two designated hospitals in Qom.
中新网援引外媒报道说，伊朗卫生部副部长哈利其24日表示，该国新冠肺炎累计确诊病例达61例，死亡人数增至12人。
The number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Iran has risen to 61, and the death toll has risen to 12, China Daily reported, citing foreign media reports.
大多数确诊病例出现在位于首都德黑兰以南120公里的圣城库姆。
Most of the confirmed cases occurred in the holy city of Qom, 120 kilometres south of the capital, Tehran.
阿曼0800 【阿曼首次确诊两例新冠肺炎病例，暂停往来伊朗航班】阿曼卫生部23日通报称，该国首次确诊两例新冠肺炎病例，是两名从伊朗返回阿曼的女性。
Oman 0800 [Oman first confirmed two cases of New Crown Pneumonia, suspended flights to and from Iran] Omani Ministry of Health 23 reported the country's first confirmed two cases of new crown pneumonia, is the return of two women from Iran to Oman.
目前两名患者状况稳定，正居家隔离。
The two patients are now in stable condition and are in isolation at home.
另据阿曼国家电视台报道，该国民航总局最后宣布暂停所有往来伊朗的航班，恢复时间待定。
Also, Omani national television reported that the country's Civil Aviation Authority had finally announced the suspension of all flights to and from Iran at a time to be determined.
科威特0800【科威特确认新增两例新型冠状病毒感染者】据央视新闻消息，科威特卫生部24日晚发布声明称，经过对伊朗返回科威特公民的医学检查，确定新增两例新型冠状病毒感染者。
Kuwait confirmed two new cases of coronary virus infection Kuwait's Ministry of Health issued a statement Thursday night confirming two new cases of people infected with the virus after medical tests on Iranian citizens returning to the country, CCTV said.
科威特境内的新型冠状病毒感染者数量也因此增加至五人，其中包括一名沙特公民和一名不确定国籍者。
As a result, the number of new coronary infections in Kuwait has increased to five, including one Saudi citizen and one person of uncertain nationality.
科威特卫生部门表示，已对确诊患者实施救治，并将采取更严格的措施防止疫情在科威特境内蔓延。
The Kuwaiti health authorities have indicated that they have treated those diagnosed and will take stricter measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic in Kuwait.
巴林0800【巴林确诊第二例新冠肺炎病例】据央视新闻消息，巴林卫生部当地时间24日晚发布公告，称确诊一名巴林女性公民为新型冠状病毒确诊病例。
Bahrain confirmed second case of coronavirus A Bahraini woman was confirmed to be a confirmed case of coronavirus, the Ministry of Health said Thursday night.
这也是巴林境内确诊的第二名新冠肺炎确诊病例。
It is also the second confirmed case of new crown pneumonia in Bahrain.
公告显示，该感感染者此前曾前往伊朗旅行，后与其丈夫和儿媳一起经停阿联酋迪拜后返回巴林。
The announcement said the person had travelled to Iran before returning to Bahrain with her husband and daughter-in-law via Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
巴林卫生部表示，正在继续采取严密措施，以防止病毒在巴林境内传播。
Bahrain's health ministry says it is continuing to take stringent measures to prevent the virus from spreading in Bahrain.
另据当地媒体报道，目前尚有上千名巴林公民在伊朗境内。
There are also thousands of Bahraini citizens in Iran, according to local media reports.
美国0800【美国确诊病例增至53例，白宫拟要求国会拨款应对】据新加坡《联合早报》消息，美国疾病控制与预防中心（CDC）24日宣布，美国境内的新冠肺炎确诊病例为14起，加上钻石公主号游轮撤回人员中确诊的39起病例，全国累计病例已增至53起。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced Thursday that the number of confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia (CDC) in the United States has risen to 53, along with 39 confirmed cases from the Retriever, the Lianhe Zaobao newspaper reported.
其中新增的18例病例全部为日本“钻石公主”号游轮上的撤侨人员。
The 18 new cases were all evacuees from the Japanese cruise ship Princess Diamond.
路透社报道，CDC表示，在加利福尼亚州洪堡县和萨克拉曼多县出现两起新病例。
The CDC said two new cases were reported in Humboldt County, California, and Sacramento County, Reuters reported.
美国公共卫生部官员警告，从暴发疫情地区撤回的公民出现确诊病例数量预计将会增加。
Officials at the United States Department of Public Health have warned that the number of confirmed cases among citizens evacuated from outbreak areas is expected to increase.
白宫发言人受访时表示，特朗普政府正考虑向国会要求紧急拨款，以应对传播迅速的冠病病毒。
In an interview, a White House spokesman said the Trump administration is considering asking Congress for emergency funding to deal with the rapidly spreading coronary virus.
据《华盛顿邮报》报道，白宫可能要求国会拨款10亿美元。
The White House may ask Congress for $1 billion, The Washington Post reported.
0800【美股重挫，道指下跌1000点创两年来最大单日跌幅】周一，因中国以外地区新冠肺炎病例数量激增，引发人们对病毒蔓延将导致全球经济持续放缓的担忧，美国股市大幅下跌。
Stocks tumbled on Monday as a surge in new cases of pneumonia outside China sparked fears the virus could lead to a continued global economic slowdown.
道琼斯指数收盘下跌1031.61点，至27960.80点，跌幅3.56%。
The Dow closed down 1031.61 points, or 3.56%, at 27960.80.
标普500指数下跌3.35%，收于3225.89点。
The S & P 500 fell 3.35% to 3225.89.
纳斯达克指数下跌3.71%，收于9221.28点。
The Nasdaq fell 3.71 per cent to 9221.28.
0800【美国调高意大利和伊朗旅游警告至第一级】据新加坡《联合早报》消息，由于伊朗与意大利新冠肺炎疫情迅速蔓延，美国疾病管制中心将两国旅游警示调升至第一级，未建议取消或延迟前往当地，但呼吁有意前往的民众应做好预防措施，避免与病患接触并勤洗手。
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control raised the alert to Level 1 because of the rapid spread of pneumonia in Iran and Italy. No cancellation or delay is recommended, but people intending to travel are urged to take precautions to avoid contact and wash their hands, according to Lianhe Zaobao.
加拿大0800 【加拿大新冠肺炎确诊病例累计达到11例】据央视新闻消息，加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省医疗官波尼·亨利（Bonnie Henry）当地时间24日上午在温哥华宣布，该省又发现一例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Bonnie Henry, medical officer of British Columbia, Canada, announced Thursday morning in Vancouver, Canada, that a new confirmed case of crown pneumonia had been found in the province, CCTV news reported.
这名40多岁的男子与该省的第六个确诊病例有过接触，目前病情稳定，正在家里接受隔离治疗。
The 40-year-old man has been in contact with the sixth confirmed case in the province and is in stable condition, receiving isolation treatment at home.
这个病例的出现使得该省新冠肺炎确诊病例达到七例。
This case brought the number of confirmed cases of Newcastle pneumonia in the province to seven.
此前一天，安大略省也宣布新增一例确诊病例。
The day before, Ontario also announced a new confirmed case.
截止目前，加拿大境内发现的新冠肺炎确诊病例累积已达11人，其中四人已经痊愈。
So far, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in Canada has reached 11, four of whom have recovered.
韩国0800【韩国累计确诊病例833例，死亡8例】韩国中央防疫对策本部24日通报，截至当天下午4点，韩国累计确诊新冠肺炎病例833例，死亡8例。
The Republic of Korea reported 833 confirmed cases and 8 deaths as of 4: 00 pm on Thursday. The number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in the Republic of Korea was 833, with 8 deaths.
确诊病例中有74.6%与“新天地教会和清道大南医院”有关。
Of the confirmed cases, 74.6 percent were related to Xintiandi Church and Ching Tao Da Nan Hospital.
韩国共有3.2万多人接受新冠病毒检测，其中2.0292万人检测结果呈阴性，其余1.1631万人结果尚未出炉。
More than 32,000 South Koreans have been tested for the virus, 202.92 million of them negative and the remaining 11.631 million have yet to be tested.
0800【韩政府：将对新天地教会所有信徒进行病毒检测】据韩联社报道，韩国中央灾难安全对策本部25日表示，经过与新天地教会的协商，政府将对新天地所有信徒进行新冠病毒检测，并随时公开检测结果。
0800 The government will test all believers in Xintiandi Church for virus detection. The government will test all believers in Xintiandi for the new crown virus and release the test results at any time after consultation with Xintiandi Church, AFP reported.
对策本部表示，前一天国务总理秘书室等与新天地教会进行密切磋商，就新天地方面提供全体信徒名单和联系方式，以及积极配合卫生部门检测工作等达成一致。
The ministry said the previous day the secretary-general of the State Council and others had held close consultations with Xintiandi Church to provide a full list of believers and contact details on Xintiandi and actively cooperate with health sector testing.
日本0800【日本新增10例新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊850人】据日本共同社消息，日本24日新确诊10人感染新冠肺炎，分布在北海道、东京都、神奈川县和石川县。
Japan confirmed 10 new cases of crowns pneumonia in Japan A total of 850 new cases have been confirmed in Japan, 10 people were newly diagnosed with pneumonia in Hokkaido, Kyoto, Kanagawa and Ishikawa Prefectures, Kyodo news agency said.
此外，在“钻石公主”号游轮工作的厚生劳动省的1名职员和1名检疫官当天也确诊感染。
In addition, a staff member of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and a quarantine officer working on the cruise ship Princess Diamond also confirmed the infection the same day.
包括游轮的乘客和船员在内，日本国内感染者增至合计850人。
Including passengers and crew from cruise ships, the total number of infected persons in Japan has increased to 850.
世卫组织0800【世卫组织：新冠肺炎有发展成全球性流行病的可能，但目前还不是】世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞24日表示，新冠肺炎疫情有发展成全球性流行病的可能性，但目前还没有到那一步。
WHO 0800 [WHO: Newly crowned Pneumonia has the potential to develop into a global epidemic, but it is not the case, World Health Organization Director General Tham Desai said Thursday.
谭德塞表示，使用“全球性流行病”一词，需要对病毒的扩散范围、严重性和社会影响进行评估，目前他们还没有看到新冠病毒在全球范围内失控的现象。
Mr Tanner said the use of the term "global epidemic" required an assessment of the spread, severity and social impact of the virus, which they had not yet seen getting out of hand globally.
谭德塞指出，目前新冠肺炎疫情对全球各国的影响不尽相同，不能一刀切，要“因国制宜”。
Tan said that the current outbreak of pneumonia in the global impact of different countries, can not be uniform, to "adapt to national conditions."
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利确诊229例死亡7例，韩国检测“新天地”全体信众。
Italy confirmed 229 cases of death 7 cases, South Korea test "Xintiandi" all believers.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利确诊229例死亡7例，韩国检测“新天地”全体信众";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "全球新冠肺炎疫情播报，持续更新。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Global Newly Crowded Pneumonia broadcast, continuously updated.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
