韩国不满以色列“过度防疫”，以方自费包机送400名韩国人回家。
Discontent with Israel's "over-immunization", Israel chartered flights at its own expense to send 400 South Koreans home.
高恺仪。
Gaokaizi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2月23日下午，在仁川机场，大韩航空KE957号航班搭载的韩国公民从以色列返抵韩国。
On the afternoon of February 23, Korean citizens aboard Korean Airlines flight KE957 arrived from Israel at Incheon Airport.
图片来源：韩联社记者：高恺仪“ “如果我们与以色列政府有过紧密沟通，本可避免这样的波折，国际信誉的降低，会让反韩情绪直接影响到韩国经济的生命力、阻碍商务人士跨境出行，而这可能导致国外对韩国产品的反感。
"If we had been in close communication with the Israeli government, we could have avoided this kind of trouble," he said. "The erosion of international credibility would have directly affected the viability of the Korean economy and prevented business people from travelling across the border, which could have led to foreign antipathy to Korean products.
””由于韩国境内新冠肺炎确诊病例的不断攀升，已有16个国家对韩国采取限制入境或加强检疫等措施。
As a result of the rising number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in South Korea, 16 countries have imposed restrictions or tightened quarantine on South Korea.
其中，以色列等国的“过度反应”引发了韩方的强烈不满。
Among them, the "overreaction" of Israel and other countries has caused strong dissatisfaction.
截至2月25日上午9时，韩国新增新冠肺炎确诊病例60例，累计确诊893例。
As of 9: 00 a.m. on Feb. 25, there were 60 newly diagnosed cases of New Crown Pneumonia in South Korea, with a total of 893 confirmed cases.
据韩联社24日报道，庆尚北道的39名天主教徒于2月8日至16日期间前往以色列朝圣，其中18人在21至22日被确诊感染新冠肺炎，另有12人在24日确诊，总计30人。
Thirty-nine Catholics in the northern province of Gyeongshan made a pilgrimage to Israel between February 8 and 16, 18 of whom were diagnosed with pneumonia on February 21 and 22, and another 12 on February 24, a total of 30, local news agency Yonhap reported.
这一消息以及韩国连日来确诊病例的急剧增加立即引起了以色列方面的恐慌。
This news, and the sharp increase in confirmed cases in South Korea in recent days, immediately caused panic on the Israeli side.
22日，以色列宣布禁止来自日本和韩国的所有航班入境。
On the 22nd, Israel announced a ban on all flights from Japan and South Korea.
一架韩国大韩航空KE957航班降落以色列本古里安机场后，航班上近200名韩国等国乘客被拒绝进入以色列领土，机上12名以色列乘客被直接运送回家隔离14天。
Nearly 200 passengers from South Korea and other countries were denied entry into Israeli territory after a KAL flight KE957 landed at Israel's Ben Gurion airport, and 12 Israeli passengers on board were taken directly home for 14 days.
此外，以方还告知目前在以旅行的大约1000名韩国游客：避免进入公共场所，自觉隔离在旅馆中，等待有关部门采取相应措施。
In addition, the Israeli side also told the current travel of about 1000 South Korean tourists: avoid public places, self-isolation in hotels, and wait for the relevant authorities to take appropriate measures.
23日，韩国外交部对以方拒绝韩国人入境的决定表示遗憾。
South Korea's foreign ministry yesterday expressed regret at Israel's decision to deny entry to South Koreans.
后经两国协商，以色列政府于24日安排两架包机将被拒入境的约400名韩国公民送回国，所有费用由以方承担。
Subsequently, after consultation between the two countries, the Israeli Government arranged two charter flights on the 24th to repatriate some 400 Korean citizens who had been denied entry, all at Israel's expense.
韩国外交部表示，将继续安排后续航班，帮助韩国游客返韩。
South Korea's foreign ministry said it would continue to arrange follow-up flights to help South Korean tourists return to South Korea.
韩国《东亚日报》24日称，嫌韩情绪在以色列正迅速扩散，当地不仅发生了针对韩国的游行示威，多家酒店和饭馆还贴出禁止韩国人进入的告示，这导致滞留在以色列的韩国游客衣食住行更加困难。
South Korea's East Asia Daily said Sunday that South Korean sentiment is spreading rapidly in Israel, where demonstrations against South Korea and hotel and restaurant bans have made it more difficult for South Korean tourists to stay in Israel.
除以色列外，毛里求斯共和国近日也对韩国人采取入境管制措施。
In addition to Israel, the Republic of Mauritius has recently introduced immigration control measures for Koreans.
韩国外交部官员表示，由于抵达毛里求斯的韩国人中有发烧等症状者，因此毛里求斯政府暂缓这些人员的入境。
South Korean foreign ministry officials say the government has suspended the entry of South Koreans arriving in Mauritius because of fever and other symptoms.
韩国媒体称，这其中包括17对刚刚完婚的韩国夫妇。
South Korean media said it included 17 newly married South Korean couples.
韩国外长康京和24日在联合国日内瓦办事处接受采访时表示，以色列政府采取过度应对措施，限制入境和将已入境的人员赶出去是不同层次的措施，韩方正通过驻外外交机构与当地政府保持紧密沟通。
South Korean Foreign Minister Kyung-wha Kang said in an interview with the United Nations Office at Geneva yesterday that the Israeli government has responded excessively by restricting entry and expelling those who have already entered the country.
截至24日，已有包括以色列、巴林和约旦在内的7个国家禁止由韩国前来的外国人入境。
As of the 24th, seven countries, including Israel, Bahrain and Jordan, had banned foreigners arriving from South Korea.
另有文莱、英国和哈萨克斯坦等9个国家强制韩国游客在隔离设施中进行体检。
Nine other countries, including Brunei, Britain and Kazakhstan, force South Korean tourists to undergo medical checks in quarantine facilities.
美国则将其旅行建议的级别从“正常预防措施”提高到“更加谨慎”。
The United States has raised the level of its travel advice from "normal precautions" to "greater caution."
韩国《中央日报》25日发表社论称，外国政府希望确保本国人民的安全而采取一定措施无可厚非，但实施入境禁令是另一回事，他们必须保护韩国旅客的人权。
South Korea's China Daily said in an editorial Thursday that foreign governments must take certain measures to ensure the safety of their people, but that enforcing the ban on entry is another matter.
在这个方面，以色列和毛里求斯的举措令人非常失望。
In this regard, the initiatives of Israel and Mauritius have been very disappointing.
“我们不能强迫其他国家终止其入境禁令，但我们的政府必须尽最大努力来减少这种不合理的歧视行为。
"We cannot compel others to end their entry bans, but our governments must do their utmost to reduce this unjustifiable discrimination."
”“如果我们政府与以色列政府有过紧密沟通，本来可以避免出现这样的波折，”文章说，“国际信誉的降低，会让反韩情绪直接影响到韩国经济的生命力、阻碍商务人士跨境出行，而这可能导致国外对韩国产品的反感。
"This could have been avoided if our government had been in close communication with the Israeli government," the article said. "The erosion of international credibility would have directly affected the viability of South Korea's economy and prevented business people from travelling across borders, which could lead to foreign antipathy to Korean products."
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
韩国不满以色列“过度防疫”，以方自费包机送400名韩国人回家。
Discontent with Israel's "over-immunization", Israel chartered flights at its own expense to send 400 South Koreans home.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "韩国不满以色列“过度防疫”，以方自费包机送400名韩国人回家";。
var msg _ title = & quot; South Korea disgruntled Israel's "over-immunization" by chartering 400 South Koreans home at its own expense.
var msg_desc = "“如果我们与以色列政府有过紧密沟通，本可避免这样的波折，国际信誉的降低，会让反韩情绪直接影响到韩国经济的生命力、阻碍商务人士跨境出行，而这可能导致国外对韩国产品的反感。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "If we had had close communication with the Israeli government, such a setback could have been avoided. A decline in international credibility would have directly affected South Korea's economic viability and deterred business people from travelling across borders, which could have led to foreign antipathy to Korean products.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
