特朗普向国会申请25亿美元应对疫情，至少10亿美元用于疫苗研发。
Trump has asked Congress for $2.5 billion to address the epidemic, with at least $1 billion for vaccine development.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
据外媒报道，特朗普政府周一晚上宣布，它将向国会申请“至少25亿美元”的额外资金来对抗冠状病毒。
According to foreign media reports, Trump's administration announced late Monday that it would apply to Congress for "at least $2.5 billion" in additional funds to fight the coronavirus.
一位官员表示，其中将包括至少10亿美元的疫苗研发资金。
One official said it would include at least $1bn in funding for vaccine development.
他补充说，该资金需求要求一次性拨款，以使卫生与公众服务部获得“最大的灵活性”。
He added that the funding requirement would require a one-time grant to give the Department of Health and Human Services "maximum flexibility."
白宫管理与预算办公室发言人雷切尔·塞梅尔（Rachel Semmel）说：“特朗普政府持续非常严肃地对待COVID-19冠状病毒的传播。
Rachel Semmel, spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said: "The Trump administration continues to take the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus very seriously.
”她补充说：“今天，美国政府已向国会提交了25亿美元的额外拨款计划，以加快疫苗开发，支持备灾和应对活动以及采购急需的设备和物资。
"Today, the administration has presented Congress with an additional $2.5 billion plan to accelerate vaccine development, support disaster preparedness and response, and procure urgently needed equipment and supplies," she added.
”这一资金请求提出之际，病毒正向更多国家蔓延，包括意大利、伊朗和韩国，引发了人们对病毒在全球范围内传播的担忧。
The funding request comes as the virus is spreading to more countries, including Italy, Iran and South Korea, raising concerns about its global spread.
在美国，目前尚未发现该病毒在普通大众中传播，但许多专家预计，这种情况最终有可能会发生。
No transmission of the virus among the general population has been found in the United States, but many experts expect this to eventually happen.
出于病毒担忧，周一道琼斯工业平均指数跌超1000点。
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell below 1, 000 points Monday on concerns about the virus.
不过，特朗普坚称，冠状病毒“很大程度上得到控制”。
Trump insists, however, that the coronavirus is "largely under control."
“在美国，冠状病毒很大程度上得到控制。
"In the United States, the coronavirus is largely under control.
我们正与所有相关的国家和人员保持联系，”特朗普发推文说。
We are in touch with all the countries and people involved, "Trump tweeted.
“疾控中心和世卫组织为此作出了艰辛且睿智的努力。
"The CDC and WHO have worked hard and wisely.
股市对我来说正看起来非常好！”。
The stock market is looking very good to me!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特朗普向国会申请25亿美元应对疫情，至少10亿美元用于疫苗研发。
Trump has asked Congress for $2.5 billion to address the epidemic, with at least $1 billion for vaccine development.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "特朗普向国会申请25亿美元应对疫情，至少10亿美元用于疫苗研发";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Trump petitioned Congress for $2.5 billion to fight the epidemic, at least $1 billion at least at R & D & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "这一资金请求提出之际，病毒正向更多国家蔓延，包括意大利、伊朗和韩国，引发了人们对病毒在全球范围内传播的担忧。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The funding request comes at a time when the virus is spreading to more countries, including Italy, Iran and South Korea, raising concerns about its global spread.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
