被指“没有家国情怀”，潘石屹未捐助武汉疫情惹争议。
Accused of "no family feeling," Pan Shiyi did not contribute to Wuhan epidemic caused controversy.
吴波。
Wu Po.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
SOHO中国董事长潘石屹“ “潘石屹只是一个盘算精明的企业家”。
Pan Shiyi, chairman of SOHO China, is just a shrewd entrepreneur.
”在灾难性事件爆发后，慈善背后捆绑的道德感，总会激起社会公众的情感波动，成为热议对象。
In the aftermath of a cataclysmic event, the sense of morality that binds behind philanthropy invariably stirs up public sentiment and becomes the subject of heated debate.
自疫情爆发以来，很多个人和企业因捐款捐物站在了聚光灯下，而地产界大佬潘石屹却成为其中一个备受关注的特殊个例。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, many individuals and businesses for donations in the spotlight, and the real estate industry Pan Shiyi has become one of the special attention of a special case.
从被指蹭武汉热度到不捐款捐物，潘石屹甚至被网友骂上过社交媒体热搜，争议不断。
From alleged rubbing Wuhan heat to non-donation, Pan Shiyi has even been scolded by netizens on social media hot search, controversy continued.
稍早前的1月24日，潘石屹通过微博转发SOHO中国给中建三局、武汉凌云等合作商的一封信。
Earlier on January 24, Pan Shiyi through Weibo forward SOHO China to China Construction Bureau, Wuhan Lingyun and other partners of a letter.
给中建三局的信中写道，“中建三局临危受命，6天建设一所临时医院，集中收治肺炎患者，我们要为中建三局每一位伟大的建设者点赞。
"Construction of a temporary hospital in six days to concentrate on treating pneumonia patients is a matter of urgency. We would like to pay tribute to every great builder in the three innings.
中建三局是古北SOHO的承建商，他们是一支能战斗、能打硬仗的队伍。
China Construction is the third bureau of the ancient North SOHO contractor, they are a fighting, hard-fought team.
”信中这句“中建三局是古北SOHO的承建商。
In the letter, "China Construction was the contractor for SOHO in the Old North.
”引来网友围攻，指责潘石屹感谢信夹带私货，借此蹭武汉热度，为SOHO中国做宣传。
"drew netizens siege, accusing Pan Shiyi thank-you letter with private goods, thus rubbing Wuhan heat, for SOHO China to do propaganda.
在疫情持续爆发期间，房地产开发商积极捐款捐物驰援抗疫工作。
During the continued outbreak of the epidemic, real estate developers actively donated money and supplies to help fight the epidemic.
在武汉疫情防控升级全面封城后的几天内，房企捐款总额已超过10亿元。
Wuhan in the prevention and control of the upgrading of the city after a few days, the total donations have exceeded 1 billion yuan.
根据界面新闻粗略统计，截至1月28日，恒大捐款2亿元，世纪金源集团捐款1.2亿元，融创累计捐款1.1亿元，碧桂园累计捐款2亿元、万科捐款1亿元，龙光捐款5000万元，龙湖捐款3500万元，世茂捐款3000万港元，滨江、中南、阳光城、旭辉等分别捐款2000万元，万达、绿城、金地、凯德、新城、建业、远洋、弘阳等分别捐款1000万元。
As of January 28, 200 million yuan had been donated by the University, 120 million yuan had been donated by Century Golden Resources Group, 110 million yuan had been raised, 200 million yuan had been donated by Bigui Garden, 100 million had been donated by Vanke Garden, 50 million had been donated by Longguang, 35 million had been donated by Longhu, 30 million had been donated.
捐赠物资包括紧缺口罩、防护服、消毒剂及救护车等。
Donations include face masks, protective clothing, disinfectants and ambulances.
绿地、复星国际捐赠50万个口罩和2万件手术服；中国奥园、合景泰富、中梁、宝能等房企均捐赠口罩；荣盛发展捐赠10台救护车、1000份康旅度假权益等。
Greenfield and Fuxing International donated 500,000 face masks and 20,000 surgical costumes; China's Olympic Park, Hejingtai Fu, Zhongliang, Bao Neng and other housing enterprises donated masks; Rongsheng Development donated 10 ambulances, 1,000 Kang Hsiang Holiday Entitlement, etc.
疫情爆发至今，商业地产商为商户减免租金的动作一直在持续，万达的租金减免甚至近40亿，为商户纾困的贷款额度达百亿。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, commercial property developers have continued to provide rent relief to businesses, with Wanda providing rent relief of nearly $4 billion and relief to businesses amounting to $10 billion.
而SOHO中国始终未捐赠过一钱一物。
SOHO China has never donated a penny or a dollar.
相形之下，SOHO中国的“不作为”令网友难以接受，潘石屹微博评论被攻陷。
In contrast, SOHO China's "inaction" makes it difficult for netizens to accept, Pan Shiyi Weibo comments were captured.
事实上，在这场影响全国多地封城、全民居家隔离的新冠状病毒疫情中，个人所牵涉的社会身份、权力以及金钱，已经不再停留于对价值观的追问，更多指向人与人、人与社会之间关系的拷问。
Indeed, in this new coronavirus epidemic, which has affected many cities across the country and isolated entire populations from their homes, the social identity, power, and money that individuals are involved in are no longer just questioning values, but rather torturing people in their relationships with each other and society.
在网友的众多评论中，有一种观点是，“捐是情分不捐是本分”，企业家捐不捐款属于个人自由，不能做过多道德绑架。
In many comments on the netizens, there is a view that "donation is not a duty," entrepreneurs do not donate donations is a personal freedom, can not do more than moral kidnapping.
另外一种观点则恰好相反——潘石屹是社会公众人物，在地产界，他是曾与王石、任志强、王健林等地产大佬齐名的房地产开发商，其发家致富离不开个人努力，但也离不开国家和社会的发展，应该在疫情中捐款担当一个商人和社会公知应有的社会责任。
Another view is the opposite - Pan Shiyi is a public figure in the real estate industry, he and Wang Shi, Ren Zhiqiang, Wang Jianlin and other real estate developers, their wealth inseparable from personal efforts, but also inseparable from the development of the state and society, should contribute to the epidemic as a businessman and the community due social responsibility.
网友评价说：“潘石屹只是一个盘算精明的企业家，但绝算不上一个有家国情怀的中国企业家。
"Pan Shiyi is just a shrewd entrepreneur, but he is not a Chinese entrepreneur with family feeling," said a netizen.
同胞在受苦，他可能看不到那种苦，他只为自己的利益自己的事业，这点做为商人确实没有错，但作为中国人他不值得尊敬，希望国民不要忘记，否则这样对那些捐物捐钱的企业家们不公平。
As a businessman, there was nothing wrong with him as a businessman, but as a Chinese he was not worthy of respect, and he hoped that his countrymen would not forget that otherwise it would be unfair to the entrepreneurs who had donated money.
”潘石屹因捐款被骂并非首次。
It is not the first time Mr Pan has been scolded for donating.
2008年汶川地震，潘石屹捐200万，被指责“捐太少”。
Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, Pan Shiyi donated 2 million, was accused of "too little donation."
而这次分文未捐，网友对潘石屹诘问不仅限于作为企业家道德和担当，更多舆论矛盾指向了，潘石屹、张欣夫妇海外投资和对美国哈佛大学的捐助。
But this time no donation, the netizens to Pan Shiyi cross-examination not only as an entrepreneur ethics and responsibility, more public opinion contradictions pointed to Pan Shiyi, Mr. and Mrs. Zhang Xin overseas investment and contributions to Harvard University.
2005年，潘石屹、张欣夫妇共同创建SOHO中国基金会。
In 2005, Pan Shiyi, Mr. and Mrs. Zhang Xin co-founded the SOHO China Foundation.
该基金会在2014年启动了金额达1亿美元的SOHO中国助学金项目。
The Foundation launched a $100 million SOHO China grant project in 2014.
目前已经与哈佛大学和耶鲁大学签署总额为2500万美元的捐赠协议，且已支持40多位中国学生在哈佛大学和耶鲁大学进修本科学位。
Donations totalling $25 million have been signed with Harvard University and Yale University, and more than 40 Chinese students have received undergraduate degrees at Harvard and Yale.
SOHO中国基金会选择的捐赠学校耶鲁大学和哈佛大学，正是潘石屹、张欣另外两个儿子就读学校。
The donation schools chosen by SOHO China Foundation Yale University and Harvard University are attended by Pan Shiyi and Zhang Xin.
二儿子潘让早已入读耶鲁大学，小儿子Luc去年就读哈佛大学。
His second son, Jean Peng, was already at Yale University, while his youngest son, Luc, attended Harvard last year.
面对网友舆论抨击，潘石屹选择沉默，关闭微博评论功能，未做任何回应。
Facing the netizen public opinion attack, Pan Shiyi chooses the silence, closes the micro-blog comment function, did not make any response.
倒是元宵节后，他的长子，曾与王思聪、王烁、富力公子张量并称“京城四少”的潘瑞为父表态—— “某会儿都哪样了你咋还腆着脸让我捐呢？口罩都发不明白还想碰我钱？”不过，潘瑞这次发声并不成功，反而招致更多责骂。
But after the Lantern Festival, his eldest son, Wang Si-chong, Wang Shuo, Felix Zhang Quan, called "the capital four little" Pan Rui said - "At some point you still shy to let me donate? Mask do not understand also want to touch my money?"
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被指“没有家国情怀”，潘石屹未捐助武汉疫情惹争议。
Accused of "no family feeling," Pan Shiyi did not contribute to Wuhan epidemic caused controversy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "被指“没有家国情怀”，潘石屹未捐助武汉疫情惹争议";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“潘石屹只是一个盘算精明的企业家”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Pan Shiyi is only a shrewd entrepreneur."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
