新冠确诊病例将破千，韩政府：全面禁止口罩出口。
New crown confirmed cases will be broken, the South Korean government: a total ban on the export of masks.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
仁川国际机场。
Incheon International Airport.
图片来源：Yonhap记者：潘金花“ 文在寅强调，“最大程度封锁”措施并非封堵和围困该地区，而是最大限度阻断疫情扩散，有关部门需争取使疫情拐点在本周之内到来。
Source: Yonhap Journalist: Pan Jinhua, Wen stressed that the "maximum blockade" measure is not to block and sieges of the area, but to prevent the spread of the disease to the greatest extent possible.
”韩国中央防疫对策本部25日通报说，截至当天下午4时，韩国较当天上午9时新增84例新冠病毒感染病例，累计确诊977例，死亡增至10例，治愈22例。
"As of 4: 00 pm on the same day, the Republic of Korea had 84 new cases of Crested Virus virus (HCV) infection, with a cumulative total of 977 cases, 10 deaths and 22 cases cured, the ministry said.
在当天新增的144例病例中，分别有60例和56例来自集中爆发的大邱和庆北地区。
Of the 144 new cases reported that day, 60 were from Daegu and 56 from Gyeongbei.
韩国中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬25日在记者会上表示，第9例死亡病例曾接触新天地大邱教会确诊病例，死因和感染途径尚不明确。
The ninth case of death was confirmed by Taegu Church in Xintiandi, and the cause of death and the way of infection remain unclear, the minister said at a news conference.
据悉，第9例死亡病例是1951年生的女性，因腹胀前往庆尚北道漆谷庆北医院急诊室就医，此后因出现肺炎症状而接受新冠病毒检测，其于24日下午死亡，当晚病毒检测结果呈阳性。
The ninth case, a woman born in 1951, died in the afternoon of 24 after she was tested positive for pneumonia in the emergency room of Qingbei Hospital, Qinggu, Gyeongshan Province.
第10例死亡病例则为1962年生的男性，初步了解与清道大南医院有关。
The tenth case of death was male born in 1962, the preliminary understanding of the hospital is related to Ching Road.
在截至当天上午9时通报的8名死亡病例中，除了与新天地教会有关的第38例患者外，其余7人中有6人与清道大南医院有关，1人是在庆尚北道庆州的自家中被发现身亡的41岁男性。
Of the eight deaths reported as of 9 a.m. on the same day, six of the remaining seven, with the exception of the thirty-eighth case related to Xintiandi Church, were associated with Ching Nan Hospital and one was a 41-year-old man who was found dead in his home in Gyeongju, Gyeongshan North Province.
目前，韩国超八成确诊病例集中在大邱和庆尚北道这两个相邻地区，分别有两个主要的传染发生地，新天地大邱教会和庆尚北道清道郡大南医院。
At present, more than 80% of the confirmed cases in South Korea are concentrated in the neighboring areas of Daegu and Gyeongshan North Province. There are two major infectious sites, Taegu Church in Xintiandi and Ching Nan Hospital in Qingdao in Gyeongshan North Province.
据中央防疫对策本部25日下午通报，在截至当天上午9点韩国累计确诊的893例新冠肺炎病例中，有499例来自大邱，225例来自庆尚北道，占比81.1%；分别有501例与113例与新天地大邱教会及清道郡大南医院有关，占比68.8%。
As of 9 a.m. on the same day, 499 of the 893 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia in Korea came from Daegu and 225 cases (81.1 percent) from Gyeongshan North Province.
据《朝鲜日报》25日报道，庆尚北道青松郡一处教导所（即监狱）已有一名狱警确诊新冠肺炎，这是韩国监狱首例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
A prison guard in Qingsong county, Gyeongshan province, has confirmed the case of New Crown Pneumonia, the first confirmed case in a South Korean prison, the newspaper reported Wednesday.
据了解，该狱警是新天地大邱教会的信徒，22日晚上发烧，24日确诊感染，目前被隔离在大邱的家中。
It is understood that the warder is Xintiandi Daegu church, 22 night fever, 24 confirmed infection, is currently isolated in Daegu's home.
韩国政府25日已表示，将对“新天地”所有信徒（约21.5万人）进行新冠肺炎情况调查，并随时公开结果。
The South Korean government said on the 25th it would conduct a survey of pneumonia in the New World among all believers, about 215,000 people, and make the results public at any time.
此外，韩国航空界、国防部与军队也出现了确诊或疑似病例。
In addition, the Korean aviation industry, the Ministry of Defence and the military also appeared to be confirmed or suspected cases.
韩国航空业界25日透露，大韩航空1名客舱乘务员被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
South Korean aviation industry 25 revealed that a Korean Airlines cabin crew was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
大韩航空已暂时关闭仁川机场的乘务员办公室，确诊乘务员乘坐的航班和感染途径等正在调查确认中。
KAL has temporarily shut down the flight attendant's office at Incheon Airport to confirm the flight and route of infection.
韩国国防部当天也表示，在一位媒体摄影记者因出现疑似病毒感染症状而入院后，国防部将暂时关闭记者室以及新闻发布厅至周三（26日）。
South Korea's Defense Ministry said the same day, after a media photographer because of suspected virus infection symptoms in the hospital, the Ministry of Defence will temporarily close the press room and press conference room until Wednesday (26).
该记者的检测结果将于今天晚些时候公布。
The reporter's test results will be released later today.
《中央日报》称，国防部因疫情关闭两处办公室尚属首次。
The central daily said it was the first time the ministry had closed two offices because of the outbreak.
截至25日上午9点，韩国军队共出现13例新冠肺炎确诊病例，包括陆军10例、海军1例、空军1例、海军陆战队1例，较前一日未有变化。
As of 9 a.m. on the 25th, there were 13 confirmed cases of pneumonia in the ROK, including 10 in the Army, 1 in the Navy, 1 in the Air Force and 1 in the Marine Corps, unchanged from the previous day.
由于部队内的二次感染可以视为大规模感染的前兆，截至昨日，韩国军队内已有7500余人被隔离。
More than 7,500 South Korean troops were quarantined as of yesterday as secondary infections within the army could be seen as a precursor to mass infection.
据《朝鲜日报》报道，隔离人员中还包括曾访问大邱和庆北地区的20多名国防部大楼职员。
The group also included more than 20 Ministry of Defence staff who visited Taegu and Gyeongbei regions, the newspaper reported.
截至目前，除确诊患者外，韩国接受新冠病毒检测的人数累计39327人，其中25447人的检测结果呈阴性，其余13880人的结果还未出炉。
So far, 39,327 people have been tested for the virus, 25,447 of them negative, and the results for the remaining 13,880 are still pending.
来源：韩国中央防疫对策本部韩国执政党、政府和青瓦台25日已将大邱和庆北两地划为特别管控区，将采取超强“封锁措施”力阻疫情蔓延。
South Korea's ruling party, government and Qingwatai have designated Daegu and Gyeongbei as special control zones, and will take super-strong "blockade measures" to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
但执政的共同民主党首席发言人洪翼杓向媒体群发短信称，“最大程度封锁”意味着补强织密防疫网，阻断疫情在社区扩散，并不是说要完全“封市封道”禁止出入。
But Hong Wing-pyo, the ruling Joint Democratic Party's chief spokesman, sent a text message to the media saying that the "maximum blockade" meant strengthening the network and stopping the spread of the epidemic in the community, not the complete "sealing off" of access.
韩国总统文在寅25日也表示，拟对大邱和庆北地区采取的“最大程度封锁”措施并非封堵和围困该地区，而意为最大限度阻断疫情扩散。
South Korean President Wen Jiabao also said on the 25th that the proposed "maximum blockade" measures against Daegu and Gyeongbei region is not to block and siege the area, but to minimize the spread of the epidemic.
韩国中央灾难安全对策本部第一总括协调官金刚立当天也在中央政府世宗办公楼开例行记者会澄清，这不是“武汉式防疫”。
Kim Gang-li, the first umbrella coordinator of the Central Disaster Security Response Headquarters, also held a regular press conference in the central government office building to clarify that this is not "Wuhan-style epidemic prevention."
防疫策略可分为“堵”和“疏”两类，前者是指在疫情初期限制来自疫区的人员入境，尽快寻找并隔离接触病例的人员，以防疫情进一步扩散，而“最大程度封锁”措施就是要在大邱地区最大程度地启动“堵”的策略。
The epidemic prevention strategy can be divided into "blocking" and "sparse." The former refers to restricting the entry of people from epidemic areas in the early stage of the epidemic, and identifying and isolating those who come into contact with the cases as soon as possible so as to prevent further spread of the epidemic.
文在寅25日在大邱市厅召开的大邱地区特别对策会议上强调，阻止疫情蔓延的关键在于时间和速度，有关部门需争取使疫情拐点在本周之内到来。
Wen stressed that the key to stopping the spread of the epidemic lies in time and speed. Authorities need to try to get the inflection point within this week.
文在寅表示，政府将投入军警和民间医疗人力资源，启动全方位支援体系，全力抗击新冠疫情。
Wen said the government would invest in uniformed and civilian medical human resources and launch a comprehensive support system to combat the new crown.
国务总理丁世均将作为中央灾难安全对策本部长从当晚起在当地指挥相关防疫工作。
State Councilor Ding Shi will act as the central disaster safety countermeasure The minister will direct related epidemic prevention work in the local area from that night.
政府还将为大邱和庆北地区提供财政支持，解决当地居民面临的各种困难，动用一切可用手段，确保疫情尽快得到控制。
The Government will also provide financial support to Daegu and Gyeongbei districts to address the difficulties faced by the local population and to use all available means to ensure that the outbreak is brought under control as soon as possible.
据韩联社报道，为解决新冠疫情升级导致的口罩紧缺问题，韩国政府将从26日零时至4月30日实施紧急调整口罩和洗手消毒液供应等措施，从26日起将全面禁止销售商出口口罩，生产商的出口量也限制在当天生产量的10%以内。
The government will implement emergency respirators and hand-washing disinfectant supplies from 0600 hours to April 30, banning the sale of face masks from 26 to 30 April, and restricting producers' exports to less than 10 percent of the daily output, the agency reported.
据韩国外交部消息，截至目前，禁止来自韩国的人员入境的国家和地区共7个，包括以色列、巴林、约旦、基里巴斯、萨摩亚、美属萨摩亚、中国香港。
So far, seven countries and territories have banned people from South Korea, including Israel, Bahrain, Jordan, Kiribati, Samoa, American Samoa and Hong Kong, China, the Foreign Ministry said.
中国澳门、新加坡、泰国、密克罗尼西亚、英国、哈萨克斯坦、土库曼斯坦、阿曼、卡塔尔、乌干达10个国家和地区则加大对从韩国入境人员的检疫力度。
Macao, China, Singapore, Thailand, Micronesia, the United Kingdom, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Oman, Qatar, Uganda and 10 countries and regions increased quarantine efforts from the Republic of Korea.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠确诊病例将破千，韩政府：全面禁止口罩出口。
New crown confirmed cases will be broken, the South Korean government: a total ban on the export of masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠确诊病例将破千，韩政府：全面禁止口罩出口";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "文在寅强调，“最大程度封锁”措施并非封堵和围困该地区，而是最大限度阻断疫情扩散，有关部门需争取使疫情拐点在本周之内到来。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wen stresses that the "maximum blockade" measure was not to block or besiege the area, but to minimize the spread of the disease, and that authorities needed to try to get the disease's inflection point within this week.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
