新冠肺炎遗体解剖已完成11例，死者肺部有黏液性分泌物。
The autopsy of New Crown Pneumonia was completed in 11 cases with mucous secretion in the lungs of the deceased.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼“ 解剖团队所处的环境，病毒浓度最高，物资缺乏、实验室缺乏也需要引起重视。
Interviewer: The anatomy team is in a situation where the virus concentration is the highest, the material shortages, the lack of laboratories also need attention.
”自2月16日，华中科技大学同济医学院法理学刘良教授带领团队开展第一例新冠肺炎死亡病例的解剖以来，截止到2月25日，国内专家已经完成11例新冠肺炎死亡病例的病理解剖。
Since February 16, 2008, when Professor Liu Liang, of the Tongji School of Medicine at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, led the team to carry out the autopsy of the first case of death from Newcrown Pneumonia.
病理解剖是病理学研究的重要方法之一.通过病理学变化和临床变化对比研究，可揭示发病机制、分析死亡原因，总结诊疗经验，提高临床救治效果和防控效果。
The pathologic anatomy is one of the important methods of pathology research. Through the pathology change and the clinical change contrast research, may reveal the pathogenesis, the analysis death cause, summarizes the diagnosis and treatment experience, enhances the clinical treatment effect and the prevention and control effect.
在已经完成的11例解剖中，刘良团队共解剖9例，另外两例由上海团队在武汉进行解剖。
Of the 11 autopsies completed, Liang's team dissected a total of 9 cases, while two others were dissected by the Shanghai team in Wuhan.
遗体捐赠者年龄从52岁到80多岁。
The donor of the body is from 52 to over 80 years old.
刘良在《北京青年报》接受媒体采访时表示，目前已经有三例病例诊断初步结果出来，但还在进行包括免疫组化在内更深入的检查。
In an interview with the Beijing Youth Daily, Liu said preliminary results from the diagnosis of three cases were available, but more in-depth tests, including immunohistochemistry, were being carried out.
目前在尸检过程中，发现部分死者肺部切面有黏液性分泌物。
At present, during autopsy, some of the dead were found to have mucous secretions in the cut of their lungs.
刘良介绍，肺在人体内是氧气和二氧化碳交换的场所，其功能依赖气道的通畅和肺泡的功能。
The lungs are places where oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged, and their function depends on airway patency and alveolar function, Liu said.
而目前情况显示，死者肺泡功能可能受到损伤，气道也被黏液堵住，临床上会出现缺氧表现。
The current situation shows that the alveolar function of the deceased may be damaged, the airway is blocked by mucus, clinical manifestations of hypoxia will appear.
因此需要对黏液进行稀释或者溶解，保持气道通畅。
Therefore need to dilute or dissolve mucus, keep airway unobstructed.
目前临床上已经使用相关药物，但刘良表示“可以再多试一试”。
The drug has been used clinically, but Liu said "we can try it again."
“在临床治疗上，如果黏液成分没有化解，单纯用给氧的方式，可能达不到目的，有时候会起反作用。
"In clinical practice, if the mucus composition is not resolved, simply using oxygen may not achieve the goal, and sometimes it can be counterproductive.
正压给氧的时候可能会把黏液推得更深更广，会加重患者的缺氧。
Positive pressure on oxygen may push the mucus deeper and wider, aggravating the patient's hypoxia.
临床上可能也在注意这个事情，但我们觉得还是要强调这个问题。
Clinical attention may also be given to this matter, but we feel compelled to emphasize it.
”针对媒体关心的尸检是否发现病毒的确切感染部位、主要靶器官，从而明确新冠病毒的传播机制上。
Media interest in the autopsy revealed the exact location of the virus, the main target organ, and the mechanism of transmission of the new crown virus.
刘良表示，病毒的传播途径目前不是病理上的问题，虽然前几例尸检过程中也进行了不同器官和组织的核酸检测，但由于不同病例的结果“不太一致”，还需要进一步分析。
"The route of transmission is not pathological," Liu said. "Although nucleic acids have been tested in different organs and tissues during previous autopsies, further analysis is needed because the results of different cases are" less consistent. "
尸检工作都于医院手术室内完成，此前刘良等人曾因没有医院提供解剖场地支持等，无法开展遗体解剖。
The autopsy work was completed in the operating room of the hospital, Liu Liang and others have not been able to provide anatomical support for the hospital, such as the autopsy could not be carried out.
虽然有了场地，但刘良表示，解剖环境（病毒）浓度最高，目前团队的防护物资都是从其他地方“化缘”得来，希望解剖团队的物资紧缺也能够被关注到。
Although the site was available, Liu said the anatomical environment was the highest, and the team's protective materials were obtained from elsewhere, hoping the lack of supplies for the anatomy team would also be noted.
华中科技大学同济基础医学院病理学系主任王国平也表示：“解剖室的问题应该提到议事日程上来，解剖室的不达标会导致解剖工作的延缓。
Wang Guoping, head of the department of pathology at the Tongji Basic School of Medicine at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, said: "Anatomical room problems should be put on the agenda.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎遗体解剖已完成11例，死者肺部有黏液性分泌物。
The autopsy of New Crown Pneumonia was completed in 11 cases with mucous secretion in the lungs of the deceased.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎遗体解剖已完成11例，死者肺部有黏液性分泌物";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Anatomy of New Crown Pneumonia has been completed in 11 cases, and the deceased's lung mucous secretion;;;
var msg_desc = "解剖团队所处的环境，病毒浓度最高，物资缺乏、实验室缺乏也需要引起重视。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Anatomical team in an environment with the highest concentrations of the virus, lack of supplies, and a lack of laboratories also needed attention.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
