解读：上海支持文化企业防疫“20条”政策措施如何操作？。
Interpretation: Shanghai support cultural enterprises epidemic prevention "20" policy measures how to operate?
上海市委宣传部。
Shanghai Municipal Party Publicity Department.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
来源：上海市委宣传部“ 自新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，上海文化企业主动承担社会责任、积极作为，捐款捐物，踊跃参与各类志愿活动，表现出了良好的精神风貌和社会担当。
Source: Shanghai Municipal Government Propaganda Department "Since the outbreak of Xinguan Pneumonia, Shanghai cultural enterprises have taken the initiative to shoulder their social responsibilities and take an active part in voluntary activities.
”自新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，上海文化企业主动承担社会责任、积极作为，捐款捐物，踊跃参与各类志愿活动，表现出了良好的精神风貌和社会担当。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak of pneumonia in Shanghai, Shanghai cultural enterprises have voluntarily assumed social responsibility and taken an active part in voluntary activities by donating money and goods and demonstrating good mental outlook and social responsibility.
但受疫情影响，文化企业特别是中小微文化企业生产经营也受到了较大冲击。
However, affected by the epidemic, cultural enterprises, especially the production and operation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have also been greatly impacted.
针对这一情况，市委宣传部高度重视、迅速行动，出台了《全力支持服务本市文化企业疫情防控平稳健康发展的若干政策措施》，并采取了一系列举措，以期与企业携手并肩、共克时艰，打赢疫情防控狙击战，共同努力推动文化企业平稳健康发展。
Aiming at this situation, the Publicity Department of the Municipal Government attaches great importance to and takes prompt actions to put forward some policies and measures to support the smooth and healthy development of epidemic prevention and control of cultural enterprises in this city.
上海支持文化企业防疫“20条”的政策措施如何操作？详情↓一、电影行业1.问：到目前为止，全市电影院已停业近40天。
How does Shanghai operate its policy measures to support cultural enterprises in epidemic prevention How do you handle the policy of "Article 20" on epidemic prevention in cultural enterprises? Q: Up to now, the city's cinemas have been closed for nearly 40 days.
政府相对应的扶持政策是什么？答：市委宣传部出台的《若干政策措施》已将电影院列为重点扶持的对象，将多方位对标问题，帮助影院解决困难、树立信心，在疫情平稳后及时恢复营业。
A: Some Policy Measures issued by the Publicity Department of the Municipal Party Committee have listed cinemas as key targets for assistance.They will help cinemas solve difficult problems, build confidence and resume business in time after the epidemic stabilizes.
一是拨付停业支持资金。
One is the disbursement of closure support funds.
依托中央和上海两级国家电影事业发展专项资金，对此次因疫情影响停业的电影院，在复业后，综合考虑影院规模、银幕数、票房情况，予以一定支持。
Relying on the special funds of the central government and the Shanghai government for the development of the national film industry, the movie theater that has been closed because of the epidemic will be given some support when it resumes operation, taking into account the size of the cinema, the number of screens and the box office situation.
下一步，相关部门将制定实施细则，确保在上半年将支持资金拨付到位。
Next, the relevant departments will work out the implementation rules to ensure that support funds are disbursed in the first half of the year.
二是帮助电影院用好现有的组合政策。
The second is to help cinemas use the existing combination of policies.
实施好国家阶段性减免企业养老、失业、工伤保险单位缴费的相关政策，落实好上海市出台的28条疫情防控支持服务政策措施，协调帮助电影院切实享受到相关政策优惠，符合条件的享受“减免企业房屋租金”等政策。
We will implement the relevant policies of the state regarding the payment of premiums by enterprises for old age, unemployment and industrial injury insurance, implement the 28 policies and measures for prevention and control of the epidemic in Shanghai, coordinate and help cinemas enjoy relevant policies and benefits, and qualify for "rent relief for enterprises."
三是加大力度协调院线管理部门，增加影片的供给。
Third, strengthen coordination with the line management departments to increase the supply of films.
在疫情结束后，尽快提供丰富的片源，恢复电影放映市场。
After the end of the epidemic, as soon as possible to provide a rich source, the resumption of film screening market.
2.问：电影行业企业可向各行业协会寻求哪些支持？答：一是可申请协调与业主租金减免等相关事宜，上海市电影发行放映行业协会已配合发函近200多份。
Q: What support can enterprises in the film industry seek from industry associations? A: First, they can apply for coordination with the owners' rent relief and other related matters.
二是可申请协调解决关于摄制场地延期、商务合同履行、贷款延期、复工复产等问题，三是电影企业在生产经营中如遇到其他具体困难，也可主动向各相关行业协会寻求帮助。
Second, they may apply for coordinated solutions to problems concerning the extension of filming venues, the performance of commercial contracts, loan extensions and the resumption of production. Thirdly, film enterprises may also voluntarily seek help from relevant trade associations if they encounter other specific difficulties in their production and operation.
电影行业协会将继续围绕企业诉求，发挥好桥梁作用，及时了解、回应和协调电影企业在生产经营中遇到的困难，帮助电影企业渡过难关。
The Film Industry Association will continue to focus on the appeal of enterprises, play a good bridge role, timely understand, respond to and coordinate the difficulties encountered in the production and operation of film enterprises, help film enterprises tide over difficulties.
3.问：对电影发行企业有什么样的扶持政策？答：上海有多家企业是全国电影发行的头部企业，承担了今年春节档多部影片的发行工作。
Q: What kind of support policy do you have for movie distributing companiesA: Many enterprises in Shanghai are the head companies of national film distribution, and have undertaken the distribution of many films for this year's Spring Festival.
原计划在春节档和2、3月份上映的影片，由于疫情影响未能如期上映，发行方损失较大。
The film, originally planned for Spring Festival and released in February and March, lost much to the distributor as the epidemic did not show on schedule.
上海电影发展专项资金将在宣发补贴中，对受此次疫情影响较大的上海发行企业，经过综合评估后给予一次性的补贴与支持。
The Shanghai Film Development Fund will provide one-off subsidies and support to Shanghai-based distribution enterprises affected by the epidemic after comprehensive evaluation.
请相关发行企业予以关注。
Please pay attention to the relevant issuing enterprises.
4.问：对电影项目生产，有什么针对性的举措？答：针对电影项目生产，一是优化政务服务。
Q: What specific measures are there for the production of film programsA: For the production of film projects, one is to optimize government service.
为减少人员聚集、阻断疫情传播，上海市电影局为企业提供便捷服务，所有政务服务事项通过网上办理、材料寄送等方式，实行“不见面、零跑动、网上办”；对电影梗概剧本备案、变更等申请项目即事即办，减少人员跑动和聚集。
In order to reduce the number of people gathering and stop the spread of the epidemic, the Shanghai Film Bureau provides convenient services to enterprises. All government affairs are handled online, materials are mailed, etc., "Do not meet, run and do things online.
二是开设绿色通道。
Second, open green channel.
为满足上海观众观影期待，确保疫情结束后影院内容供给充分、重点产业项目不受影响，上海将对重点影片、重点项目的审批开设绿色通道，全方位保障重要项目不停工、不流产、不降标。
In order to meet the expectations of the audience in Shanghai and ensure that the supply of cinema content is adequate and key industry projects are not affected after the epidemic, Shanghai will open green channels for the approval of key films and key projects to guarantee all-round guarantee that important projects will not stop operation, abort or lower standards.
三是支持重点项目。
Third, support key projects.
将依托促进上海电影发展专项资金，对受疫情影响较大的重点企业和重点项目、影视拍摄基地，予以适当的支持。
Relying on the special fund for promoting the development of films in Shanghai, appropriate support will be given to key enterprises and key projects and film and television shooting bases affected by the epidemic.
5.问：对反映防疫抗疫的电影作品是否会加大扶持力度？答：鼓励影视企业强化责任担当、肩负起重大使命，反映打赢疫情防控阻击战的电影创作项目将纳入今年的重点作品资助范畴，依托促进上海电影发展专项资金，加大培育和扶持力度。
Q: Will more support be given to films reflecting the epidemic prevention and treatment? A: Film-making enterprises are encouraged to take on greater responsibility and take on major missions, reflecting the fact that winning the disease prevention and control war will be included in the category of funding for key works this year.
二、演艺行业6.问：“演艺大世界”是具有标杆意义的演艺集聚区，对此有哪些支持举措？答：一是优化演出审批流程，开辟绿色审批通道，提供剧本预审服务，缩短审批时间。
Q: What are the support measures for the "Performing Arts World" as a benchmark performing arts agglomeration? A: First, optimizing the approval process for performances, opening up green approval channels, providing pre-screening services for scripts, and shortening the examination and approval time.
二是加强演艺大世界配套扶持资金的导向支持，引导区域内相关主体积极储备优质项目，对于引进精品项目、推动首演首秀、推进演艺市场向好发展的演艺主体给予优先扶持。
Second, to strengthen the guiding support of the supporting funds for the performing arts world, and guide the relevant subjects in the region to actively reserve high-quality projects, so as to give priority to the entertainers who introduce fine projects, promote premiere shows and promote the performing arts market.
7.问：对受疫情影响的民营院团和中小微文化演艺公司有哪些具体的帮扶政策？答：一是全面贯彻落实上海市出台的28条疫情防控支持服务政策措施，加大政策宣传力度，协调帮助企业切实享受相关政策。
Q: What specific assistance policies do you have for private hospitals and micro, small and medium cultural performing arts companies affected by the epidemic? A: First, we will comprehensively implement the 28 policies and measures put in place by Shanghai to support the prevention and control of the epidemic, intensify policy publicity and help enterprises enjoy relevant policies in a coordinated manner.
二是倡导相关剧场返还或减免场地定金，帮助企业改善现金流，渡过难关。
Second, advocate the return of relevant theatrical or reduced venue deposit to help enterprises improve cash flow, tide over difficulties.
三是积极统筹演出档期资源，场租不涨价。
Third, actively co-ordinate the performance slotting resources, the venue rent does not increase.
四是依托各类文化扶持资金，对受疫情影响较大、信用良好、符合条件的中小微演艺企业，在同等条件下优先予以支持。
Fourth, depending on various funds for cultural support, priority should be given to small and medium-sized performing arts enterprises that are more affected by the epidemic, have good credit and meet the requirements.
8.问：恢复演艺市场，有什么举措？答：一是鼓励演艺市场转型创新，支持在线点播、直播等新业态、新模式探索，推动线上线下融合发展，多渠道发布、多网格分发、多终端呈现，鼓励开发新型文化消费金融服务。
Q: What are the measures to revive the performing arts market.A: First, we should encourage the transformation and innovation of the performing arts market, support the exploration of new business models such as on-demand broadcasting and direct broadcasting, promote the development of on-line offline integration and development, multi-channel distribution, multi-grid distribution and multi-terminal presentation.
二是积极运用各类传播平台，加大宣传疫情防控权威信息和政策法规，待剧场开门营业，在科学引导、群防群控的基础上，尽量缩短公众的适应期，提升在剧场观剧的安全体验。
Second, actively using various communication platforms to increase publicity of authoritative information and policies and regulations on epidemic prevention and control, waiting for theaters to open for business and, on the basis of scientific guidance and crowd control, try to shorten the period of public adaptation and enhance the safety experience of watching dramas in theatres.
9.问：对疫情防控阻击战中表现突出的优秀文艺创作、主动承担社会责任的演艺企业，将有哪些支持举措？答：一是依托上海市重大文艺创作资助项目，推进各艺术门类重大选题规划，加大对全面建成小康社会、庆祝建党100周年、疫情防控等主题创作的扶持力度。
Q: What measures will be taken to support outstanding literary and artistic creations and performing arts enterprises that have taken the initiative to take social responsibility in the prevention and control of epidemic diseases?
二是依托上海市促进文化创意产业发展财政扶持资金，对在疫情期间主动承担社会责任、捐赠各类抗疫物资、参与志愿活动的演艺企业，在同等条件下优先予以支持。
Second, depending on the financial support fund of Shanghai to promote the development of cultural and creative industries, performing arts enterprises that have voluntarily assumed social responsibility during the epidemic period, donated various kinds of materials for fighting epidemic diseases and participated in voluntary activities are given priority support under the same conditions.
10.问：上海文化发展基金会的项目年度申报和验收工作，目前有何调整？答：一是将上半年的申报截止日期适当延长，推迟项目评审日期。
Q: What are the current adjustments to the annual declaration and acceptance of the projects of the Shanghai Cultural Development Foundation? A: First, the deadline for filing in the first half of the year has been extended appropriately to postpone the project evaluation date.
二是调整基金会项目监管和绩效评估工作，对受疫情影响，导致受资助项目未能按计划实施的，视实际情况酌情予以顺延，不视为违约。
Second, the adjustment of the project supervision and performance evaluation of the foundation will not be regarded as a breach of contract if the projects funded are not implemented as planned due to the impact of the epidemic.
三、电竞行业11.问：对线上电竞赛事是否有相应支持？答：据统计，今年上半年有400多场线下电竞赛事受到不同程度影响，这是一个暂时现象。
Q: Is there any corresponding support for the on-line electricity competition? A: According to statistics, more than 400 offline electricity competitions were affected to varying degrees in the first half of this year, which is a temporary phenomenon.
我们鼓励举办线上电竞赛事。
We encourage the holding of online competitions.
有一定规模、影响力的线上电竞赛事，文创资金将参照线下电竞赛事的标准给予支持。
There is a certain scale, impact of the online electricity competition, Wenchuang funds will reference the standards of the offline electricity competition to support.
12.问：今年英雄联盟全球总决赛S10会受影响吗？答：不会。
12. Q: Will this year's Heroes World Finals S10 be affected? A: No.
S10赛事筹备各项工作正在全面展开、有序推进过程中。
The preparations for the S10 are well under way and progressing in an orderly manner.
13.问：第十八届ChinaJoy、2020全球电竞大会、第二届上海电竞周等上海电竞文化品牌活动是否会继续举办？答：上海打造“全球电竞之都”的决心是坚定不移的，电竞之都建设的步伐没有放缓。
Q: Will the 18th China Joy, the 2020 Global Atletico Conference and the second Shanghai Telecom Competition continue to be held? A: Shanghai's determination to build a "global Atletico Capital" is unswerving and the pace of construction of the Capital of Atletico has not slowed down.
目前，各项工作和重点项目，正加快推进中。
At present, various work and key projects are being accelerated.
疫情结束后，相关活动将陆续举办。
After the outbreak is over, related activities will be held successively.
14.问:对网络文学是否有针对性的扶持政策？答：将通过优秀网络文学作品扶持、举办现实主义网络文学征文大赛等评比和活动，积极引导和促进优秀网络文学作品的创作。
Q: Is there a targeted support policy for online literature? A: We will actively guide and promote the creation of excellent online literature by supporting excellent online literature works and holding realistic online literature essay competitions.
15.问：对网络游戏企业是否有相关的扶持政策？答：一是全面推广网络游戏出版管理申报服务平台，加快网络游戏审批效率，争取更多的新游戏产品尽快上市，让企业手中有粮，心中不慌。
Q: Is there any supporting policy for online gaming enterprises? A: First, promote the online game publishing management and filing service platform across the board, accelerate the approval efficiency of online games, and strive for more new game products to market as soon as possible, so that enterprises have food in their hands, not panic.
二是在今年的文创资金扶持方面，会针对中小微企业制订专门的指南，避免中小微企业因为疫情的影响，优秀作品不能面世。
Second, in this year's creative fund support, MSMEs will develop special guidelines to avoid the impact of the epidemic MSMEs, outstanding works can not be published.
四、艺术品行业16.问：受疫情影响，很多展览、拍卖活动取消或延期举办，有什么针对性举措？答：一是将在第二届上海国际艺术品交易月中，积极引入今年上半年因疫情影响延期或取消的优质艺术品展销活动，为这些展销活动提供平台。
Q: Because of the epidemic, many exhibitions and auctions have been cancelled or postponed. What specific measures have been taken? A: First, during the second Shanghai International Art Exchange Month, we will actively introduce the high-quality art exhibitions and sales activities that were postponed or cancelled in the first half of this year because of the epidemic.
二是结合疫情对艺术品行业的影响，进一步完善交易月的配套政策和实施细则，降低参展机构参展成本。
Second, the impact of the epidemic on the art industry, further improve the trade month supporting policies and implementation rules, reduce the cost of exhibitors.
17.问：受疫情影响，艺术品进出口贸易大幅减少，请问有什么应对措施？答：中国艺术品市场仍将保持高速发展，进而支撑艺术品进出口贸易。
Q: Because of the epidemic, the import and export trade of works of art has been greatly reduced. What measures have been taken to deal with it? A: The Chinese art market will continue to develop at a high speed, thus supporting the import and export trade of artworks.
各部门也将依托上海自贸区各项政策优势，做优做强服务，进一步提升艺术品贸易便利化水平。
Various departments will also rely on the advantages of Shanghai Free Trade Area policies, do better services, further improve the facilitation of trade in works of art.
一是对自贸区艺术品仓储租金及进出口通道服务费用进行减免。
The first is to free trade area art storage rent and import and export channel service fees relief.
二是优化艺术品进出境流程，将艺术品进入保税区的时间由原来的3到5天缩短至48小时以内。
Second, optimize the entry and exit process of works of art into the bonded area from the original time of 3 to 5 days to 48 hours.
三是优化保税展览审批流程，将原先提前1个月的备案时间，缩短至常态操作6个工作日，上海国际艺术品交易月期间3个工作日。
Third, optimize the process of examination and approval of bonded exhibitions, reduce the original 1 month to normal operation of the record time to 6 working days, Shanghai international art trade during the three working days.
四是投入使用保税区服务中心艺术品智能远程查验系统，优化功能服务。
Fourth, put into use bonded area service center works of art intelligent remote inspection system, optimize function service.
五是打造365天全年艺术品展示及交易平台，开展常年展示及交易服务。
Fifth, to create 365 days of art exhibition and trading platform to carry out the perennial display and trading services.
五、出版行业18.问：防疫期间，对传统出版企业有哪些帮扶举措？答：除了市委市政府、市委宣传部出台的针对企业的共性政策外，专门针对出版企业，一是将抗击疫情类图书、音像电子出版物纳入2020年上海主题出版的范畴，强化主题出版的引领作用，积极策划出版一批优秀出版物，激发上海出版界主动作为，积极参与抗击疫情。
Q: During the period of epidemic prevention, what measures will be taken to assist traditional publishing companiesA: In addition to the general policies on enterprises promulgated by the Municipal Government and the Publicity Department, we will focus on publishing enterprises and include books and audio-visual and electronic publications on fighting epidemic diseases in the 2020 Shanghai theme publication.
二是为防疫相关选题专门配发书号，不占用出版单位的年度书号资源，为出版单位解除资源压力。
Second, for epidemic prevention-related topics assigned to the book number, do not occupy the annual book number resources for the publishing units to relieve the pressure on resources.
三是针对疫情相关选题的申报，为各出版单位开设“绿色通道”，提高办理效率，简化审批流程，减轻出版单位的行政压力。
Third, the declaration of topics related to the epidemic, to open "Green Channel" for each publishing unit, improve the efficiency of processing, simplify the examination and approval process, and reduce administrative pressure on publishing units.
四是对向社会捐赠精品出版物的出版单位，在成本上予以一定补助和支持。
Fourth, to donate fine publications to the community publishing units, in the cost of a certain amount of subsidies and support.
五是为疫情防控做了突出贡献的出版单位，在年度书号资源和资金申报、奖项参评、社会效益评估考核等方面将进一步有所倾斜。
Fifthly, the publishing units, which have made outstanding contributions to the prevention and control of the epidemic, will further tilt their annual book number and financial declaration, award evaluation and social benefit evaluation.
19.问：疫情期间，针对实体书店、印刷发行企业有哪些帮扶举措？答：除了市委市政府、市委宣传部出台的针对企业的共性政策外，专门针对实体书店、印刷发行企业，一是对在疫情期间坚持生产，保障重点图书、中小学教材印刷、发行的相关企业，配合商圈商场运营、开展正常营业活动的实体书店等给予资金扶持。
Q: During the epidemic period, what support measures were put in place for physical bookstores and printing and distribution companiesA: In addition to the general policies for enterprises issued by the Municipal Government and the Publicity Department, we will give financial support to enterprises that insist on production and guarantee the printing and distribution of key books, primary and secondary school textbooks during the epidemic period.
二是联合相关银行机构，设立印刷出版条线金融信贷抗疫专项贷款，对用于恢复生产经营、维持企业正常经营活动的流动资金进行贷款支持。
Second, the relevant banking institutions shall establish special loans for printing and publishing lines of financial credit and epidemic prevention to provide loan support for the working capital used to restore production and business operations and maintain the normal operations of enterprises.
三是支持相关行业协会，对相关印刷、发行企业机构减免年度会费。
Third, support relevant trade associations, printing and distribution enterprises to reduce annual membership fees.
四是对实施转型发展、满足新业态要求的印刷发行重大项目，给予重点扶持。
Fourth, we will give key support to major printing and distribution projects that meet the requirements of transformation and development and meet new industry requirements.
六、文化金融20.问：在防疫期间，资金周转出现困难的中小微文化企业，可以获得哪些支持？答：疫情发生以来，为数不少的中小微文化企业经营出现困难，面临流动性问题。
Q: During the period of epidemic prevention, what support can be given to micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises facing difficulties in capital flow during the period of epidemic prevention? A: Since the outbreak of the epidemic, many small, medium and small cultural enterprises have experienced difficulties in their operations and are facing liquidity problems.
对此，市委宣传部高度关注，并采取了一系列举措。
In this regard, the Municipal Communications Department is highly concerned and has taken a series of measures.
一是支持金融机构全面落实国家及本市出台的金融扶持政策，特别是上海市文创特色支行，对中小微文化企业不抽贷、不断贷。
One is to support financial institutions to fully implement the financial support policies issued by the state and this Municipality, especially the special branch of Shanghai Literature and Creation, which does not lend money or loans to micro, small or medium-sized cultural enterprises.
二是依托下属的国有金融企业拿出专项资金，推出“文金惠”专项金融服务，着重解决防疫期间中小微文化企业流动性问题。
Second, depending on the subordinate state-owned financial enterprises to put out special financial services, "Wenjin Hui" to focus on the liquidity of micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises during epidemic prevention.
三是联动上海银行、上海政策性融资担保基金等金融机构，即将推出“文创保”服务，着眼长远解决文化企业融资难、融资贵的问题。
Third, linked Shanghai Bank, Shanghai Policy Financing Guarantee Fund and other financial institutions, will soon launch "Wenchuang Insurance" services, long-term solution to the difficult financing of cultural enterprises, financing expensive.
四是依托市文创资金推出贴息、贴担保费政策，进一步降低文化企业融资成本。
Fourth, relying on the funds created by the city to launch discount, guarantee premium policy, further reduce the cost of financing cultural enterprises.
五是依托各市级文创园区、各相关行业协会，建立文化金融服务工作站，主动对接中小微文化企业，更好做好金融服务。
Fifth, relying on the city-level creative parks, related industry associations, set up cultural financial service workstations, actively docking micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises, better financial services.
21.问：市委宣传部推出的“文金惠”有什么特色，中小微文化企业可以获得哪些服务？答：“文金惠”是市委宣传部依托下属的国有金融企业上海滨江普惠小额贷款有限公司、上海东方惠金融资担保有限公司，已经正式推出的一款金融专项金融服务，目的是为了更好地解决防疫期间中小微文化企业的流动性问题。
Q: What are the characteristics of the "Wenjin Hui" launched by the Publicity Department of the Municipal Committee, and what services can be obtained by MSMEs? A: Wenjin Hui is a financial special financial service that has been officially launched by the Publicity Department of the Municipal Committee, relying on the affiliated state-owned financial enterprises, Shanghai Binjiang Inclusive Micro-Finance Co., Ltd.
“文金惠”有这样几个特点，一是针对中小微文化企业，全市范围内注册的应纳税所得额不超过300万元的文创企业都可以申请；二是形式多样，通过“文金惠”，中小微文化企业既可以申请小额贷款，也可以申请银行贷款，相关机构还可以帮中小微文化企业提供免费的金融咨询服务。
For micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises, enterprises with taxable income of not more than 3 million yuan can apply. Second, through Wenjin Hui, micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises can apply for small loans, bank loans, and related organizations can provide free financial advisory services to MSMEs.
三是服务效率高，5个工作日内出审批结果；四是手续简便，无需房产抵押。
Third, high service efficiency, 5 working days to issue approval results; Fourth, simple procedures, no mortgage on the property.
五是费率优惠，小额贷款利率比市场平均利率至少下浮25%，年担保费率从2.5%降至1%。
Fifthly, the interest rate of micro-loans will float at least 25% below the average market rate, and the annual guarantee rate will be reduced from 2.5% to 1%.
22.问：“文创保”的特点是什么，什么时候文化企业可以申请？答：“文创保”是市委宣传部联动上海银行、上海政策性融资担保基金等金融机构，将于近期推出的一款银行贷款产品，主要着眼于解决文化企业融资难、融资贵的问题。
Q: What are the characteristics of "WenChuangbao" and when can cultural enterprises apply for it A: WenChuangbao is a bank loan product to be launched recently by the Publicity Department of the Municipal Government, the Shanghai Policy Financing Guarantee Fund and other financial institutions.
“文创保”的特点，一是免抵押，针对文化企业轻资产的情况，无需提供房产抵押；二是审批快，两个星期内出审批结果；三是额度大，原则上贷款金额不超过1000万元，四是周期长，贷款期限可不超过三年。
The characteristics of the "Wenchuang Bao" are: first, no mortgage is required for cultural enterprises to lighten their assets; second, fast examination and approval results are given within two weeks; third, it is large in amount and in principle the loan amount does not exceed 10 million yuan.
相对于“文金惠”，“文创保”是更为常态、覆盖面更广的服务产品，预计3月份相关企业即可申请。
In contrast to "Wenjin Hui," "Wenchuang Bao" is a more normal, wider coverage of service products, the relevant enterprises are expected to apply in March.
23.问：对抗疫期间主动承担社会责任、表现突出的文化企业是否优先扶持？答：对于此类企业以及演艺、文旅、电竞、文化会展等受疫情影响较大的中小微文化企业，文创专项扶持资金以及各类服务产品，将会给予优先扶持。
Q: Is it a priority to support cultural enterprises with outstanding social responsibility during the fight against epidemic? A: Priority will be given to such enterprises, as well as to medium-sized and micro-cultural enterprises affected by the epidemic, such as performing arts, cultural tourism, Atletico, cultural exhibitions, etc.
此外，市级文创园区、楼宇和空间在抗疫期间扎实推进防控工作，保障承租企业复工复产，通过减免租金等方式主动减轻承租中小微文化企业负担的，文创专项扶持资金也将给予部分补贴。
In addition, municipal Wenchuan Park, buildings and space firmly promote prevention and control during the period of fighting epidemic, guarantee the resumption of work of enterprises under lease, and actively reduce the burden of leasing micro, small and medium-sized cultural enterprises by way of rent reduction and other means.
24.问：很多文创企业因疫情尚未复工复产，承担的扶持项目无法按时完成或资金紧张，是如何考虑的？答：对已签约的 2019 年度本市文创资金在建扶持类项目，项目验收材料提交时间可由2020 年 10 月 31 日延期至 2021 年 1 月 31 日，特殊情况可再予以研究。
Q: How can we consider that many literary and creative enterprises have not resumed production due to the epidemic situation, and are unable to complete their support projects on time or face financial constraints? A: For 2019, the municipal fund for literary creation is supporting projects, and the submission time for project acceptance materials can be extended from 31 October 2020 to 31 January 2021.
对已完成验收的项目，市文创办将尽快拨付尾款，确保企业正常运转。
For the completed acceptance of the project, the establishment of municipal culture will be allocated as soon as possible to ensure the normal operation of enterprises.
七、文化旅游25.问：目前旅游企业资金流较紧张，最新出台的12条措施中，如何帮助这些企业缓解这一困境的？答：一是为旅游企业减轻负担。
Q: At present, the funding flow of tourism enterprises is quite tight, and how can we help them alleviate this dilemma with the latest 12 measures? A: First, ease the burden on tourism enterprises.
对我市所有已依法交纳保证金、领取旅行社业务经营许可证的旅行社，暂退标准为现有交纳数额的80%，暂退保证金至2022年2月5日前返还。
For all travel agencies in our city that have paid the deposit according to law and have received the business operation license of the travel agency, the temporary withdrawal standard is 80% of the existing payment amount, with the refundable deposit returned before February 5, 2022.
截至2月25日，已暂退671多家旅行社旅游质量保证金，涉及金额2.82亿元；预计将暂退1400家旅行社，涉及金额约5亿。
As of February 25, more than 671 travel agents with a total travel quality guarantee of 282 million yuan had been withdrawn, and 1,400 travel agencies, involving an estimated value of 500 million, were expected to be withdrawn.
二是发挥专项资金助力发展作用。
Second, give play to special funds to help development.
加快2019年度旅游专项资金拨付工作，力争1季度底2季度初完成拨付；还将尽快启动2020年度旅游专项资金申报工作，重点支持振兴上海旅游发展、提升上海旅游形象、完善旅游公共服务、丰富疫后重大旅游活动等项目。
We will accelerate the allocation of special funds for tourism in 2019 and strive to complete the allocation by the beginning of the second quarter of the first quarter.
三是加大金融助企纾困力度。
Third, increase financial relief efforts.
与农行、中行等金融机构积极沟通，主动推荐本市旅游企业，争取金融机构的信贷投放；与市经信委联手，为旅游中小企业协调应急短期流动资金贷款事宜。
Actively communicate with Agricultural Bank, Bank of China and other financial institutions, proactively recommend the city's tourism enterprises, seek credit from financial institutions; and join hands with the Municipal Economic and Communications Commission to coordinate short-term emergency liquidity loans for tourism SMEs.
四是发挥行业协会作用。
Fourth, play the role of trade associations.
指导上海市旅游行业协会做好免除会员单位2020年上半年会费的工作，在行业内形成合力共克时艰。
Guide the Shanghai Tourism Industry Association to do a good job of exempting members from the first half of 2020 dues, in order to form joint efforts in the industry.
26.问：最新出台的12条措施中，也提到了提振文旅融合发展信心，对疫后旅游业恢复发展是怎么部署的？答：一是推出以“信心、安心、称心、暖心、欢心”为主题的上海文旅市场振兴计划，整合调动文旅行业及平台资源，开展线上线下宣传推广活动，实现防护有措施、企业有产品、市场有活动、游客有感受、城市有形象的目标。
Q: Among the 12 new measures, mention has been made of how to integrate and develop confidence in the rejuvenation of the tourism industry since the outbreak of the epidemic. One is to launch the Shanghai Cultural Tourism Market Revival Plan with the theme of "Confidence, peace of mind, contentment, warm heart and happy heart."
二是整合资源搭建上海世界著名旅游城市的宣传营销平台，联合我市旅游企业、行业协会等全方位推介上海。
Second, the integration of resources to build Shanghai's world-renowned tourism marketing platform, the city's tourism enterprises, industry associations and other all-round promotion of Shanghai.
三是通过做优做特首发经济、赋能升级数字文旅、创意融合文旅产业、做大做强“上海礼物”等方面工作，着力丰富文化和旅游产品供给及服务创新，如在原有的旅游产品基础上，重点推出“旅游+康养”、“旅游+生态”等主题，帮助市民游客舒缓心情、健康生活。
The third is to enrich the supply of cultural and tourism products and service innovation by doing outstanding startup economy, empowering people to upgrade the digital travel industry, creating integrated cultural and tourism industries, and innovating the supply of cultural and tourism products, such as "tourism + health" and "tourism + ecology."
四是推动博物馆、美术馆、演艺场馆、非遗项目等文化资源与旅游服务的深度融合，不断丰富旅游的文化内涵、展现样式、体验形式。
Fourth, promote the in-depth integration of cultural resources and tourism services, such as museums, art galleries, performing arts venues and non-heritage projects, so as to continuously enrich the cultural connotation, presentation style and experience form of tourism.
五是主动适应市民文化和旅游消费的新需求，鼓励企业依托互联网、云平台、VR技术，创新推出一批“云阅读”“云看展”“云演出”“云游园”“云赏景”等精品项目，真正做到线上线下同步发展、联动发力。
Fifth, actively adapt to the new needs of citizens' culture and tourism consumption, encourage enterprises to rely on the Internet, cloud platforms and VR technology to launch a batch of innovative projects such as Cloud Reading, Cloud Show, Cloud Show, Cloud Garden and Cloud View.
八、文化服务27.问；在疫情期间,文化单位如何提供便民利民服务,满足市民对文化艺术享受的需求？答：一是创新公共文化、文博、美育线上服务。
Q: During the epidemic period, how can cultural units provide convenient and convenient services to meet the needs of the public for cultural and artistic enjoyment?
推动开放和推送数字资源，市、区两级270家公共图书馆、博物馆、文化馆、美术馆通过各馆开设的142个网站、218个微信公众号、43个微博公众账号，纷纷创新推出“云阅读”“云创作”“云看展”“云观演”等活动，做到线上服务不停摆、更精彩。
To promote the opening up and delivery of digital resources, 270 public libraries, museums, cultural centres and art galleries at the municipal and district levels have innovated by launching such activities as "cloud reading," "cloud creation," "cloud watching" and "cloud watching" through 142 websites, 218 micro-public numbers and 43 microblogging public accounts.
如，上海博物馆推出“上博邀您云看展”专题，整合18个三维展览、25个远程教育、3个网上展览、5个珍品介绍等数字资源；上海图书馆每日持续更新微阅读、微讲座、线上观览等；中华艺术宫每天发布“轻阅读”微信，并以语音形式开展线上艺术讲座，上海油画雕塑院美术馆将迎春展移至网上展厅等。
For example, the Shanghai Museum launched the "Invitation to the Cloud Exhibition" project, which integrates 18 three-dimensional exhibitions, 25 distance education, 3 online exhibitions, 5 treasure trove presentations, etc. The Shanghai Library continuously updates micro-reading, micro-talks and online viewing.
二是放大“文化上海云”平台作用。
Second, amplify "culture Shanghai cloud" platform function.
汇聚各区数字资源，推出19个“云上文化春节”专题、34项子活动、数字艺术课程651课时、在线展览80余个，使市民能足不出户在线看展、观演、品诗，参与文化活动，累计浏览量210余万人次。
A total of 19 "Spring Festival on Cloud Culture" projects, 34 sub-activities, 651 hours of digital art courses and more than 80 online exhibitions have been launched, bringing the total number of visitors to exhibitions, performances, poems and cultural activities to over 2.1 million.
上海市民文化节联合文化上海云、数字文化馆，共同举办“宅家保安康·云上闹元宵”主题系列活动。
The Shanghai Citizen Cultural Festival, jointly with the Shanghai Cloud and Digital Culture Museum, will hold a series of activities on the theme of "Homestead Ankang Yun Lantern Festival."
三是丰富广播电视和网络视听节目。
Third, rich radio and television and network audio-visual programmes.
东方卫视等各档主要新闻栏目迅速调整版面报道重点和基调，及时报道各地疫情防控最新动态，加大防疫公益广告制播力度，进一步丰富优质影视剧、纪录片、动画片等供给，为群众居家生活提供更多选择。
Major news items such as Dongfang Satellite TV quickly adjust the focus and tone of the layout, report on the latest situation of epidemic prevention and control in various places, intensify the production and broadcast of public health advertisements for epidemic prevention, and further enrich the supply of high-quality movies, TV dramas, documentaries and animated films.
哔哩哔哩、喜马拉雅、聚力等本市20余家网络视听新媒体先后开设疫情相关专题专区，丰富网络视听节目供给，推出减免费用、赠予等措施，满足人民群众精神文化生活需要。
More than 20 new online audio-visual media in the city, such as serges, Himalayan cohesion and cohesion, have set up specialized areas for disease-related topics to enrich the provision of audio-visual programmes on the Internet and to introduce measures such as fees and gifts to meet the needs of the people in their spiritual and cultural life.
四是组织开展基层群文创作。
Fourth, organize and carry out grass-roots group writing.
用文艺作品讲好故事、做好宣传，把党和政府的声音、把疫情防控的要求传递到千家万户，为做好防控工作凝心聚力、加油鼓劲。
With literary and art works to tell a good story, do a good job of publicity, the voice of the party and the Government, the disease prevention and control requirements to thousands of families, in order to do a good job of prevention and control cohesion, encourage.
28.问：防疫期间，上海针对文化企业的政务服务事项如何开展？答：市文旅局、市新闻出版局、市版权局、市电影局政务服务事项已经全部接入上海市“一网通办”门户网站。
Q: During the period of epidemic prevention, how did Shanghai conduct government affairs for cultural enterprises? A: The Municipal Culture and Tourism Bureau, the Municipal Press and Publication Bureau, the Municipal Copyright Bureau and the Municipal Film Bureau have all been connected to the Shanghai One Net Office portal.
除营业性演出审批等暂停事项外，其余审批和服务事项均可网上查询和申报，纸质申请材料、证照和批复文件均可邮寄快递，实行“不见面、零跑动、网上办”，保证实际办结时限不打折，为企业提供更加主动、便捷、高效的政务服务。
In addition to business performance approval and other suspension matters, the rest of the approval and service matters can be found and declared online, paper application materials, certificates and approval documents can be mailed express delivery, so as to ensure that the actual closing time is not discounted, and to provide more active, convenient and efficient government service for enterprises.
对于有特殊困难无法网上办理的情形，提供电话预约、现场办理服务。
For special difficulties that cannot be handled online, provide telephone booking, on-site processing services.
对于非紧急业务，倡导申请人延期办理、错峰办理，减少人员聚集，降低感染风险。
For non-urgent business, advocating the applicant to delay processing, staggered processing, reduce the accumulation of personnel, reduce the risk of infection.
九、未来发展29、问：对文化企业未来发展有何引导性举措？答：疫情是一时的，企业的发展是长期的。
Q: What are the leading measures for the future development of cultural enterprises? A: The epidemic is temporary, and the development of enterprises is long-term.
相关部门高度关注如何更好地推动文化企业转型升级、创新发展。
The relevant departments are highly concerned about how to better promote the transformation and upgrading of cultural enterprises, innovative development.
一是在政策措施中明确把深化文化科技融合发展作为主攻方向，培育壮大电子竞技、数字动漫、在线旅游、智慧传媒、数字文博等新兴产业，支持一批高成长创新型中小文化企业。
First, in the policy measures to deepen the integration and development of culture, science and technology as the main direction, nurture and expand e-sports, digital animation, online tourism, intelligent media, digital entertainment and other emerging industries, and support a number of high-growth innovative small and medium-sized cultural enterprises.
二是鼓励文化企业利用这段时间“做强内功，补齐短板”，特别是鼓励传统文化企业利用好新技术，线上线下两条腿走路，提升抗风险能力。
Second, cultural enterprises are encouraged to make use of this time "to do strong internal work, to fill the gap," in particular to encourage traditional cultural enterprises to take advantage of new technologies, two on-line off-line to enhance their anti-risk capacity.
30、问：这次疫情期间，民众对线上文化消费的需求非常强烈，请问上海在发展数字文化产业方面有些什么应对举措？答：一是抓好关键技术突破。
Q: During this epidemic period, people's demand for on-line cultural consumption is very strong. What measures is Shanghai taking to develop the digital culture industry
鼓励文化科技企业加强对文化创作、生产、传播和消费等环节共性关键技术的研究开发与标准制定，加大对重大关键技术的引进、输出和合作。
Cultural and scientific enterprises are encouraged to strengthen research, development and standard-setting on key common technologies in the creation, production, dissemination and consumption of culture, and to increase the introduction, export and cooperation of key technologies.
二是抓好精品内容生产。
Second, good quality product content production.
全力支持文化企业借助创新技术，实现内容创作生产的全流程智能化以及内容形态的创新，通过启动一系列原创数字文化精品内容扶优计划等，积极引导和培育数字文化精品内容生产。
Cultural enterprises are fully supported to realize the innovation of the whole process intelligentized and the content form of content creation with the help of innovative technology, and actively guide and cultivate the production of high-quality content of digital culture by launching a series of original digital culture fine-quality content support plans.
三是抓好应用场景落地。
Third, grasp the application scene landing.
以应用为驱动、市场为牵引，加速推进数字产品在文旅、体育赛事、教育等应用场景的跨界联动、融合应用。
The application-driven, market-driven, accelerate the promotion of digital products in the travel, sports, education and other applications of cross-border linkage, integration applications.
四是抓好服务平台建设。
Fourth, the construction of a good service platform.
着力打造数字文化发展所需的技术服务、产权保护、成果交易、活动展示等各类服务平台，通过ChinaJoy等重大会展平台为数字文化产品和技术提供优质的展示、推介、交易服务。
We will create various service platforms, such as technical services, property rights protection, result-based trading and activity display, to provide high-quality display, promotion and trading services for digital cultural products and technologies through major exhibition platforms such as ChinaJoy.
五是抓好政策配套支持。
Fifth, we should support relevant policies.
授牌一批市级文化科技园区，建立特色产业孵化器，发挥市文创引导资金和市文化金融服务平台作用，加快集聚培育一批新技术、新模式、新业态的文化科技企业。
A number of municipal cultural science and technology parks have been licensed, special industry incubators have been set up to give full play to the role of municipal cultural innovation guidance funds and municipal cultural financial service platforms, and to speed up the gathering and training of a number of new technologies, models and industries.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
解读：上海支持文化企业防疫“20条”政策措施如何操作？。
Interpretation: Shanghai support cultural enterprises epidemic prevention "20" policy measures how to operate?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "解读：上海支持文化企业防疫“20条”政策措施如何操作？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "自新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，上海文化企业主动承担社会责任、积极作为，捐款捐物，踊跃参与各类志愿活动，表现出了良好的精神风貌和社会担当。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Since the outbreak of pneumonia in Shanghai, Shanghai cultural companies have demonstrated a good spirit and commitment to society by actively assuming social responsibility, donating and donating goods, and actively participating in various volunteer activities.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
