日本老字号旅馆因疫情倒闭，资生堂8000员工开始远程办公。
In Japan, 8000 employees of Shiseido have been telecommuting due to the collapse of the hotel.
田思奇。
Tennessee.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
爱知县蒲郡市的老字号日式旅馆“富士见庄”图片来源：共同社记者：田思奇“ 今年1月，日本面向主要国家和地区的出口与上年同期相比齐齐下滑，2月起疫情蔓延则雪上加霜，或将造成日本贸易进一步萎缩，日本经济的停滞感日益明显。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Japan's exports to key countries and regions slipped in January compared with the same period last year, adding to the spread of the epidemic since February, or causing further contraction in Japanese trade, and a growing sense of stagnation in the Japanese economy
”受新冠病毒肺炎疫情扩大影响，日本旅游业遭受重创。
Japan's tourism industry has been hit hard by the spread of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
爱知县一家接待中国团体游客的旅馆将成为日本首个受新冠病毒影响破产的案例。
A hotel in Aichi Prefecture hosting Chinese group tourists will become Japan's first case of bankruptcy affected by the new crown virus.
据共同社介绍，爱知县蒲郡市的老字号日式旅馆“富士见庄”本月中旬倒闭。
According to Kyodo, the old Japanese-style hotel "Fuji Zhuang" in Aichi Prefecture closed in the middle of this month.
团体游客因疫情接连取消预定给这家1956年创立的旅馆带来巨大冲击。
The group of tourists canceled due to the outbreak of a major impact on the hotel set up in 1956.
据东京商工调查公司介绍，该旅馆计划近期向名古屋地方法院丰桥支部申请破产。
The hotel plans to file for bankruptcy in the near future with Fengqiao Branch of the Nagoya District Court, according to Tokyo Commercial and Industrial Research.
31岁的旅馆社长伊藤刚表示：“虽然是上一辈人维持下来的宝贵旅馆，但是没有客人就毫无办法”，“像我们这样地方温泉街上的旅馆，即使感染不再蔓延，客人也很难回流”。
Ito, the 31-year-old hotel director, said: "Although it was a valuable hotel for the last generation, there was no way out without guests." "Hotels in hot springs like ours don't come back even if the infection doesn't spread."
对于疫情，伊藤称“希望早日平息，但新冠病毒已开始一点点地影响地方经济”。
For the outbreak, Ito said, "hope to end soon, but the new crown virus has begun to affect the local economy little by little."
日本政府此前设定了2020年接纳4000万访日外国游客的目标，意味着同比增加25%。
The government has previously set a target of admitting 40 million foreign tourists to Japan by 2020, representing a 25 percent increase over the same period.
但疫情扩散让这一目标显得遥不可及。
But the spread of the epidemic makes that goal impossible.
2019年，访日中国游客达959万人次，占到整体访日游客的3成，在各国家和地区中居首。
In 2019, 9.59 million Chinese tourists visited Japan, accounting for 30 percent of the total number of visitors, the highest among all countries and regions.
日本国家旅游局（JNTO）2月19日发布的数据显示，1月访日游客人数比上年同月减少1.1％。
The number of visitors to Japan fell 1.1 percent in January from the same month last year, according to figures released February 19 by the Japan National Tourism Administration.
2月以后中国游客的锐减预计难以避免，其他国家游客预计也将因日本国内的疫情放弃这一目的地。
A sharp drop in Chinese tourists after February is expected to be inevitable, and other countries are expected to give up the destination because of the outbreak in Japan.
国际民用航空组织（ICAO）2月13日的报告指出，2020年第1季度日本旅游相关损失可能达到约13亿美元。
According to a February 13 report by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Japan's tourism-related losses could reach about $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2020.
除旅游业外，日本制造业和批发业也遭受疫情的打击。
In addition to tourism, Japan's manufacturing and wholesale industries have been hit by the epidemic.
东京商工调查公司2月中旬的调查显示，有效回复的12348家企业中有2806家企业称疫情已对企业活动造成影响，占总体的23％。
A survey conducted in mid-February by the Tokyo Business Survey showed that 2,806 of 12,348 companies responding effectively said the epidemic had affected business activities, accounting for 23 percent of the total.
按行业来看，受影响的企业中制造业为944家，数量最多，其次是批发业的832家。
By industry, 944 manufacturing enterprises were affected, the largest number, followed by 832 in the wholesale sector.
同时也有44％的企业回答称，虽然目前影响还没有显现出来，但“今后有可能受影响”。
Forty-four per cent of companies responded that, while the effects were not yet apparent, they were "likely to be affected in the future."
当问及受影响的具体内容时，企业主要回答称“取消、延期去当地出差的计划”（39％）、“难以从当地供应商那里采购”（36％）以及“销售额减少”（33％）。
When asked what the impact was, companies responded mainly to "cancellation, postponement of local travel plans" (39 per cent), "difficulty in sourcing from local suppliers" (36 per cent) and "reduced sales" (33 per cent).
日本财务省19日公布的1月贸易统计初值（以通关为准）显示，面向主要国家和地区的出口与上年同期相比齐齐下滑，2月起疫情蔓延则雪上加霜，或将造成日本贸易进一步萎缩，日本经济的停滞感日益明显。
Japanese exports to major countries and regions fell in line with the same period of the previous year, according to the Ministry of Finance's January 19 trade statistics data (based on customs clearance), adding to the spread of the epidemic since February or causing further contraction in Japanese trade.
共同社指出，日本政府将经济形势评估维持为“温和复苏基调”，但2020年一季度实际GDP有可能连续两个季度负增长，艰难局面仍将持续。
Kyodo said the government had maintained its assessment of the economic situation as a "mild recovery tone," but real GDP was likely to contract for two consecutive quarters in the first quarter of 2020, and the difficult situation would continue.
与此同时，越来越多的大型日本企业宣布启用灵活办公制度，要求员工在家办公或错峰通勤。
At the same time, a growing number of large Japanese companies have announced flexible office systems that require employees to work from home or commute by staggered peaks.
化妆品公司资生堂宣布在2月26日至3月6日期间，原则上禁止约8000名员工到公司上班，占日本国内员工总数的3成。
Shiseido, a cosmetics company, said it had banned about 8,000 employees from the company in principle between February 26 and March 6, accounting for 30 percent of the country's workforce.
与欧美大型化妆品企业相比，资生堂对亚洲市场的依赖度较高。
Compared with large cosmetics companies in Europe and the United States, Shiseido relies more on the Asian market.
在疫情蔓延之际，资生堂的业绩前景充满不确定性。
With the epidemic spreading, the outlook for Shiseido's performance is uncertain.
日本电通也于2月25日宣布，东京汐留总部大楼的5000名员工从26日开始改为在家办公。
Also on February 25, Japan Telecom announced that 5,000 employees of the Tokyo Tidal Headquarters Building would start working from home on February 26.
该大楼内的一名50多岁男性员工的病毒检测结果呈阳性。
A 50-year-old male employee in the building tested positive for the virus.
电通暂未确定在家办公的期限。
Telephony has not set a time limit for working from home.
眼下适逢日本应届毕业生的求职高峰，据《日本经济新闻》介绍，在东京举行的就职说明会上，身穿求职套装的学生们一个接一个在入口进行手部消毒。
Students wearing job-hunting suits disinfected their hands one by one at the entrance to Tokyo's inaugural meeting, the Japan Economic News said.
“如果这个时候感染了新型肺炎，将对3月报名参加就职活动产生影响。
"If you get the new pneumonia by this time, it will have an impact on enrolling in March.
绝对不想得病”，参加说明会的一位大三学生戴着口罩说道。
Never want to get sick, "said a senior student wearing a mask at the briefing.
另外已经参加了多家企业面试的大三女生表示，“因为戴着口罩，对方记不住我的脸，很让人头疼。
In addition to the company has participated in a number of corporate interviews, "because wearing a mask, the other side can not remember my face, it is a headache.
通过积极提问和回答来让对方记住我的名字”。
Ask positive questions and answers to make sure my name is remembered.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
日本老字号旅馆因疫情倒闭，资生堂8000员工开始远程办公。
In Japan, 8000 employees of Shiseido have been telecommuting due to the collapse of the hotel.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "日本老字号旅馆因疫情倒闭，资生堂8000员工开始远程办公";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "今年1月，日本面向主要国家和地区的出口与上年同期相比齐齐下滑，2月起疫情蔓延则雪上加霜，或将造成日本贸易进一步萎缩，日本经济的停滞感日益明显。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Japan's exports to key countries and regions fell year-on-year in January, adding to the spread of the epidemic since February, or likely to cause further contraction in Japan's trade, and growing economic stagnation.
​";。
Jade & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
