司法部：三省5个监狱共确诊病例555例，全国其他监狱没有感染。
Ministry of Justice: 555 cases were confirmed in five prisons in the three governorates, with no infection in the rest of the country.
梁宙。
Liang Zhouzhou.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：梁宙“ 司法部副部长熊选国表示，监狱疫情传播反映了监狱管理还有在防控疫情工作中存在的漏洞。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Liang ZhouVice Minister of Justice Xiong Xingguo said the spread of the epidemic reflects the management of prisons and gaps in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
”2020年2月26日上午，国务院联防联控机制举行新闻发布会。
On the morning of February 26, 2020, the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism held a press conference.
司法部副部长熊选国表示，截止到2月25日，湖北、浙江、山东三个省5个监狱共确诊病例555例，疑似19例，重症4例。
As of February 25, 555 cases, 19 suspected cases and 4 cases of severe illness had been confirmed in five prisons in Hubei, Zhejiang and Shandong provinces, Vice-Minister of Justice Xiong Xingguo said.
不过熊选国强调，到目前为止，没有发生监狱在押罪犯感染新冠肺炎死亡的病例，全国其他监狱没有发生罪犯感染疫情。
Xiong stressed, however, that so far, there have been no cases of death from pneumonia in prison, and no other prisons nationwide.
熊选国称，监狱疫情传播反映了监狱管理还有在防控疫情工作中存在的漏洞。
Xiong said the spread of the epidemic reflects prison management and gaps in efforts to prevent and control the disease.
一是思想重视不够，像湖北武汉女子监狱，距离武汉肺科医院不到100米，监狱干警上下班和肺科医院病人看病是同一个公交站，在全面实行封闭前，可能就已经导致了病毒输入。
For example, Wuhan Women's Prison in Hubei Province, less than 100 meters away from Wuhan Lung Hospital, is a bus stop for commuters and patients in lung hospitals. Before full closure, it may have led to virus input.
二是严格管理不到位。
Second, strict management is not in place.
像湖北的汉津监狱、浙江的十里丰监狱、山东的任城监狱，这些监狱发生疫情，都是由于个别干警不如实报告接触到了湖北疫区的人员，接触之后不如实报告，隔离不彻底，这样导致输入性病例。
Such as the Hanjin prison in Hubei Province, the Xilifeng prison in Zhejiang Province and the Ren Cheng prison in Shandong Province, the outbreaks in these prisons are due to the fact that individual police officers did not report actual contact with the personnel in the Hubei epidemic area.
“疫情在监狱传播，充分暴露出这些地方思想认识不深刻，干警管理不严格，防控措施落实不力，工作中存在严重形式主义、官僚主义问题。
"The spread of the epidemic in prisons has fully exposed the lack of deep ideological understanding in these places, the lax management of the dry police, the weak implementation of preventive and control measures and the existence of serious formalism and bureaucracy in the work.
对此，当地已采取了严厉的问责措施。
Strict local accountability measures have been taken in this regard.
”熊选国表示。
"said Xiong.
熊选国还表示，罪犯出现发热或者呼吸道的症状，第一时间要进行隔离观察，对确诊罪犯要与社会其他人员一样同等及时的予以救助。
Xiong also said that prisoners with fever or respiratory symptoms, the first time to conduct isolation observation, the same as the rest of society to identify timely relief.
目前，有1名重症人员经过救治已经解除了重症，有11名患者已经治愈。
At present, one critically ill person has been cured after treatment and 11 patients have been cured.
日前，中央政法委会同最高人民法院、最高人民检察院、公安部和司法部制定了《关于政法机关依法保障疫情防控期间复工复产的意见》（下称《意见》）。
Recently, the CPPCC, together with the Supreme People's Court, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Justice, formulated the Opinions on Legal Guarantees for Resumption of Work during Disease Prevention and Control by Political and Legal Organs (hereinafter referred to as the Opinions).
《意见》重点围绕如何完善法规政策、如何规范执法司法、如何调处化解矛盾纠纷、如何提供优质高效的政法公共服务等方面，提出了12项工作举措和具体要求。
The Opinions focus on how to improve legislation and policy, how to regulate the administration of justice, how to mediate and resolve conflicts and disputes, and how to provide high-quality and efficient public services.
针对复工复产期间利用疫情哄抬物价、囤积居奇、趁火打劫这样妨害疫情防控，以及企业复工复产的违法犯罪行为，《意见》也作出了规定。
The Opinions also provide for the use of the epidemic to inflate prices, hoarding and looting during the resumption of production to hamper the prevention and control of the disease, as well as the resumption of business operations.
最高人民法院副院长张述元表示，《意见》对惩治疫情和影响复工复产的犯罪提出了明确的要求，也提出了相关的任务。
Zhang Shuyuan, vice-president of the Supreme People's Court, said the Opinions set out clear requirements and tasks for punishing epidemic diseases and crimes affecting the resumption of work.
人民法院主要从两方面采取措施：一是依法严惩妨害疫情防控复工复产的相关犯罪。
The people's courts have mainly adopted two measures: First, severely punish crimes related to preventing and controlling epidemic diseases.
人民法院将根据刑法、司法解释，还有2月10日两高、两部联合发布的《关于依法惩治妨害新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控违法犯罪的意见》，依法严惩扰乱医疗秩序、防疫秩序、市场秩序、社会秩序等违法犯罪。
The people's court will, in accordance with the criminal law and judicial interpretation, also issue the Opinions on Punishing Illegal Acts and Crimes that Obstruct the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection and Pneumonia according to Law, issued jointly by the two high schools and the two departments on February 10.
“主要包括依法严惩车匪路霸、插手物流运输、破坏正常的交通秩序等黑恶势力犯罪，包括依法严惩破坏交通设施的犯罪，依法严惩伪劣产品、假药劣药不符合标准的医用器材的犯罪，同时包括依法严惩囤积居奇、哄抬物价等非法经营犯罪，切实保障人民群众生命安全和身体健康，切实保障疫情防控和复工复产顺利进行。
"These include the crime of severely punishing, according to law, fake and inferior products, fake medicines and substandard medical equipment, as well as illegally operating crimes such as hoarding and hoarding and raising prices according to law, so as to guarantee the lives and physical health of the people and ensure the smooth prevention and control of the epidemic and the resumption of production.
”张述元说。
"said Zhang Shuyuan.
此前两高曾发布《关于政法机关依法保障疫情防控期间复工复产的意见》。
The two high schools had previously issued the Opinions on Legal Guarantees for the Resumption of Work during Disease Prevention and Control.
张述元介绍，人民法院要依法审慎地审理有关案件，既要有力震慑违法犯罪，保障疫情防控和复工复产的顺利推进，又要保障企业的合法权益，促进企业的正常经营。
Zhang said that the people's courts should try relevant cases carefully according to law, not only to deter illegal acts and crimes, but also to ensure the prevention and control of the epidemic and the smooth progress of the resumption of work, but also to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises and promote their normal operation.
“依法能够采取较为轻缓宽和措施的，尽量不采用限制人身财产权利等强制性措施。
"Where lighter measures can be taken in accordance with the law, coercive measures such as restricting personal property rights shall be avoided as far as possible.
需要依法查封、扣押、冻结的，一般应当预留必要的流动资金和往来账户，对涉案企业正在投入生产运营或者正在用于科技创新、产品研发的设备资金和技术资料等，原则上不予查封、扣押、冻结。
Necessary working capital and current accounts shall generally be set aside for sealing up, distraining or freezing in principle the equipment, funds and technical materials that the enterprises involved are putting into production and operation or are being used for scientific and technological innovation or product development.
对于处于审判阶段的企业经营者，我们奖慎用有关羁押性的强制措施。
For the enterprise managers in the trial stage, we should carefully use the compulsory measures concerning custody.
”张述元说。
"said Zhang Shuyuan.
另据公安部副部长杜航伟在新闻发布会上介绍，截止到2月24日，全国公安机关先后查处涉及疫情的各类违法犯罪案件2.2万起，刑事拘留4260人，有力地震慑了违法犯罪行为。
As of February 24, the public security organs nationwide had dealt with 22,000 criminal cases involving epidemic diseases and detained 4,260 people on criminal charges, effectively deterring lawbreaking and criminal activities, Du Hangwei, vice minister for public security, told a news conference.
截至目前，公安机关已经侦破制售假劣口罩等防护物资案件688起，抓获犯罪嫌疑人1560余名，查扣了伪劣口罩3100余万只及一批防护物资，涉案价值达到1.74亿元。
So far, the public security organs have cracked 688 cases involving the production and sale of fake and inferior masks and other protective materials, arrested more than 1,560 criminal suspects, confiscated over 31 million fake and inferior masks and a batch of protective materials, involving a total value of 174 million yuan.
近期，我国个别地区出现了一些粗暴执法的现象，也引发外界争议。
Recently, some rough law enforcement has appeared in some areas of China, which has also caused controversy.
杜航伟称，这个问题确实存在，面对突如其来的疫情，一些地方为了及时有力阻断疫情传播渠道，特别是一些疫情严重的地区，采取了严格的管理措施。
Du said the problem does exist and that in the face of sudden outbreaks, some places have adopted strict management measures in order to stop the spread of the epidemic in a timely and effective manner, especially in areas with severe epidemics.
一些群众出不了门、下不了楼，产生焦躁、焦虑和恐慌情绪，对这些严格的管理不理解、不配合。
Some people can not go out of the door, can not go downstairs, resulting in impatience, anxiety and panic, these strict management do not understand, do not cooperate.
这期间，公安机关和有关部门在处理当中确实出现了过度执法、简单执法、粗暴执法的情况。
During this period, the public security organs and relevant departments in the process of dealing with excessive law enforcement, simple law enforcement, rough law enforcement.
杜航伟表示，针对这些情况，公安部及时下发了文件，要求整改，引导广大民警规范执法言行，国务委员、公安部长赵克志同志对此高度重视，多次作出批示指示，要求尽快纠正制止简单粗暴执法，防止类似情况再次发生。
The State Councilor and Minister of Public Security Comrade Zhao Kezhi attached great importance to these situations and issued instructions to correct and stop simple and brutal law enforcement as soon as possible, so as to prevent similar situations from happening again.
不过，杜航伟也强调，对一些主观恶性大、严重妨害疫情防控和企业复工复产的违法犯罪行为，公安机关还是要坚持依法严厉打击。
However, Du also stressed that the public security organs should continue to crack down on some criminal activities that seriously undermine the prevention and control of the epidemic and the resumption of work by enterprises.
对主观恶意小、危害不大、依法可处罚可不处罚的，要坚持以教育为主，努力营造和谐有序的社会生产环境。
For those who are not so malicious and dangerous as to be punished according to law, they should stick to education and strive to build a harmonious and orderly social production environment.
杜航伟表示，疫情防控期间，广大公安民警，特别是战斗在一线的基层民警，发扬疫情不退、公安不退的大无畏精神。
Du said that during the period of epidemic prevention and control, the vast public security police, especially those fighting on the front line of the grass-roots police, carry forward the epidemic, public security will not retreat fearless.
一个多月来，全国公安民警和辅警先后有49人因公牺牲。
Over the past month, 49 members of the National Public Security Police and Auxiliary Police have died in the line of duty.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
司法部：三省5个监狱共确诊病例555例，全国其他监狱没有感染。
Ministry of Justice: 555 cases were confirmed in five prisons in the three governorates, with no infection in the rest of the country.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "司法部：三省5个监狱共确诊病例555例，全国其他监狱没有感染";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Ministry of Justice: 555 confirmed cases in five prisons in all three provinces, and none at & quot;
var msg_desc = "司法部副部长熊选国表示，监狱疫情传播反映了监狱管理还有在防控疫情工作中存在的漏洞。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Vice Minister of Justice Xiong Xinguo says the spread of the epidemic reflects prison management and the existence of gaps in its control.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
