东京奥运会面临疫情困境：5月底或迎生死时限，延期易地办赛不现实。
The games in Tokyo face an epidemic: a late-May or life-and-death deadline, and a postponement of the Games is unrealistic.
罗盈盈。
Lo Ying Ying.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：罗盈盈“ 如果日本当地疫情在今年5月底无法得到有效控制，这届奥运会有可能会被取消。
Source: Visual China Journalist: Luo Ying-ying If the local epidemic in Japan is not brought under effective control by the end of May, the Olympics could be cancelled
”即使日本新冠肺炎疫情持续蔓延，当地官员、东京奥组委以及国际奥委会早前多次强调，东京奥运会准时举办。
Even as the outbreak of pneumonia continues to spread in Japan, local officials, the Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games and the International Olympic Committee have repeatedly stressed that the Games will be held on time.
但在2月25日，国际奥委会高级官员迪克·庞德（Dick Pound）在接受美联社采访时，披露了新的说法——2020年东京奥运会存在被取消的可能性。
But in an interview with The Associated Press on Feb. 25, Dick Pound, a senior IOC official, revealed new claims that there was a possibility that the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games would be cancelled.
迪克·庞德表示，目前还有三个月的窗口期来决定东京奥运会的命运，如果日本当地疫情在今年5月底无法得到有效控制，鉴于公共卫生事件的危险性，这届奥运会有可能会被取消。
Dick Pound said there was still three months until the end of the window to decide the fate of the Tokyo Olympics, which could be canceled if the local epidemic was not brought under effective control by the end of May and given the dangers of public health events.
与此同时，他声称，延期或易地举行奥运会等备选方案的可行性不大，这不是一件容易的事情。
At the same time, he claimed that it would not be easy to postpone or relocate options such as the Olympic Games.
迪克·庞德是一位来自加拿大的前游泳选手，1987年成为国际奥委会委员，是至今任期最长的委员。
Dick Pound is a former swimmer from Canada who became a member of the IOC in 1987 and is by far the longest serving member.
他曾历任国际奥委会市场委员会主席、电视转播权谈判委员会主席、国际奥委会执行副主席、世界反兴奋剂机构主席。
He has been President of the IOC Committee on Markets, Chairman of the Negotiating Committee on Television Rights, Executive Vice-President of the IOC and President of the World Anti-Doping Agency.
当前，国际奥委会仍未就东京奥运会前景进行明确表态，迪克·庞德的个人说法并不代表官方的正式意见。
The IOC has yet to pronounce on the future of the Tokyo Olympics, and Dick Pound's personal statement does not represent an official opinion.
但这被视为国际奥委会催促日本当局全力抗击疫情的信号。
But it is seen as a sign that the IOC is urging the Japanese authorities to fight the epidemic.
日本奥运担当大臣桥本圣子2月26日表示，“（我们）已就此询问国际奥委会，国际奥委会回复称，‘这不是国际奥委会的官方主张，有这样的言论正说明了国际奥委会正在朝着东京奥运会按照计划举办的目标，开展准备工作。
"[We] have asked the IOC, and the IOC has responded, 'This is not an official IOC proposition, and this is an indication that the IOC is preparing for the Tokyo Games as planned," said Yasuko Hashimoto, Japan's Olympic minister, on February 26
’”迪克·庞德（Dick Pound）按照原计划，东京奥运会和残奥会，将分别于2020年7月24日至8月9日和2020年8月25日至9月6日举行。
Dick Pound planned that the Tokyo Games would be held from July 24 to August 9, 2020 and the Paralympic Games from August 25 to September 6, 2020.
目前距离奥运会揭幕，还有5个月的时间。
There are still five months to go before the Olympics begin.
包括世界卫生组织和医学界专家人士普遍认为，现在考虑是否取消东京奥运会还为时过早。
Experts, including from the World Health Organization and the medical community, generally agree that it is too early to consider whether to cancel the Games.
迪克·庞德估计，三个月的窗口期过后，今年5月下旬，视乎日本国内疫情是否得到控制，再决定东京奥运会的命运，是一个比较恰当的时间表。
Dick Pound reckons a three-month window would be a more appropriate time frame in late May, depending on whether the epidemic in Japan is contained before deciding on the fate of the Tokyo Olympics.
若防控效果不好，到时候距离奥运会仅剩两个月，或许只能取消。
If control is not effective, the games will be two months away and may have to be cancelled.
据日本厚生劳动省和各地方政府的消息，截至当地时间2月25日20点，日本国内累计确诊新冠肺炎病例861例，死亡3例。
According to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and local governments, there were 861 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia and three deaths in Japan as of 20: 00 local time on February 25.
其中，停靠在横滨的钻石公主号邮轮确诊691例。
Of these, 691 cases were confirmed by the MV Princess Diamond docked in Yokohama.
在日本47个一级行政区中，多达17个发现新冠肺炎病例，日本政府已紧急拨款103亿日元用于应对新冠肺炎疫情。
As many as 17 of Japan's 47 Tier 1 districts have seen cases of new crown pneumonia, and the Japanese government has allocated an emergency allocation of 10.3 billion yen to fight the outbreak.
受疫情影响，不少东京奥运会相关活动已被叫停，包括志愿者培训和东道主小镇峰会等。
Due to the epidemic, many activities related to the Tokyo Olympic Games have been suspended, including volunteer training and host town summits.
此外，部分奥运场馆测试赛将不设观众。
There will also be no spectators for some Olympic venues.
日本J联赛则决定，3月15日之前全部94场比赛将延期举行。
Japan's League J decided to postpone all 94 games until March 15.
奥运会作为规模庞大的体育盛会，迪克·庞德认为，“很多事情必须现在开始做，加强自己的安保，包括食物、奥运村和酒店，以及各国媒体将在那里建造他们的演播室。
As a huge sporting event, Dick Pound said: "A lot of things must start now to strengthen our own security, including food, the Olympic Village and hotels, and where the national media will build their studios.
”至于东京奥运会是否被取消，做主的不仅仅是国际奥委会一家机构，需要与世界卫生组织、联合国进行磋商，同时还要考虑其他体育组织、相关机构甚至电视转播商的利益。
It is not just the IOC that will decide whether or not the Games will be cancelled. It will need to consult with the World Health Organization and the United Nations, taking into account the interests of other sports organisations, related organisations and even television broadcasters.
尽管形势难以预料，迪克·庞德认为，以目前的迹象来看，奥运会筹备工作照常进行，运动员应该按照原定计划进行训练。
Despite the uncertainty, Dick Pound believes that, given current evidence, preparations for the Games are on track and that athletes should be trained as planned.
近日，鉴于韩国疫情的严峻局势，国际乒联已经决定延期举办原定于3月底举行的釜山世乒赛，暂定延迟至6月21日至28日举行。
Recently, in view of the severe situation in Korea, the International Table Tennis Federation has decided to postpone the Busan World Table Tennis Championships, originally scheduled for the end of March, until 21 to 28 June.
与此同时，外界有声音称，延期或易地办赛同样是东京奥运会可供考虑的选择。
Meanwhile, there have been calls that postponing or changing venues is also an option for the Tokyo Olympics.
但在业内人士看来，这将难以实现。
But that, in the industry's view, will be difficult to achieve.
“就奥运会的规模而言，你不能推迟，那么大规模的赛事移动，同时每个国家有不同的联赛安排，各类项目有自己的竞赛日程，还有电视转播难以协调，”迪克·庞德，奥运延期并非一个简单的时间问题。
"When it comes to the size of the Olympics, you can't put it off, the big games are moving, there are different league arrangements for each country, there's a competition schedule for all kinds of events and there is a lot of television broadcasting," said Dick Pound, the delay is not a simple matter of time.
尤其在每年秋季，职业体育赛事的日程表都被安排得满满当当，包括NBA、NFL等北美职业联赛、欧洲足球及篮球赛事等扎堆举办。
In particular, in the fall of each year, the calendar of professional sports events is packed up, including NBA, NFL and other North American professional leagues, European football and basketball.
在这样的情况下，运动员和各个国家队将难以协调奥运会和联赛赛程。
Under these circumstances, it would be difficult for athletes and national teams to coordinate the Olympic and league games.
除此之外，推迟举办奥运会不太可能让广播公司满意。
Beyond that, postponing the Olympics is unlikely to satisfy broadcasters.
自1988年以来，NBC一直持有夏季奥运会的美国转播权，并且已经支付东京奥运转播费用。
NBC has held U.S. rights to broadcast the Summer Olympics since 1988 and has paid for transmission to Tokyo.
据悉，考虑到下半年有众多职业赛事转播计划，他们无法接受奥运延期的安排。
It is reported that the second half of the many professional events broadcast plans, they can not accept the postponement of the Olympics.
2月20日，英国保守党伦敦市长候选人贝利（Shaun Bailey）曾公开表示，如果新冠肺炎疫情迫使东京奥运会易地举行，伦敦将做好举办的准备。
On Feb. 20, Shaun Bailey, the Conservative Party's London mayoral candidate, said publicly that London would be ready to host the new crown pneumonia if it forced a change of venue.
外界认为，他的言论是为5月伦敦市长选举造势，以达到政治目的。
His comments are seen as a political ploy for the mayoral elections in London in May.
据路透社报道，一名英国体育官员称，伦敦没有接手的计划，“这是一位市长候选人的表态，而非英国或伦敦的态度。
According to Reuters, a British sports official said London had no plans to take over, "a statement from a mayoral candidate, not from Britain or London.
”迪克·庞德则表示，将奥运会整体搬到另一个城市也不太可能，“因为世界上很少有地方能在这么短的时间内完成设施建设。
Dick Pound said moving the Games as a whole to another city was unlikely "because very few places in the world could have built a facility in such a short time.
”与此同时，他不赞成将奥运赛事分散到世界各地举行，因为那样无法完整构成“一届奥运会”，更像是各个单项的世锦赛。
At the same time, he disapproved of spreading the games around the world, because that would not complete "one Olympics," more like individual world championships.
为了筹备东京奥运会，日本方面已经花费约250亿美元。
Japan has spent about $25 billion preparing for the Tokyo Olympics.
如果推迟一年举办赛事，东京奥组委未必能承受更大的成本消耗。
TOKYO may not be able to afford a bigger cost delay of a year.
“日本必须问问自己，这样的成本泡沫能否再维持多一年，”迪克·庞德说道。
"Japan has to ask itself if this cost bubble will last another year," says Dick Pound.
东京设立奥运五环标志当前，国际奥委会已经建立一项应急基金，大约有10亿美元的储备，以应对突发情况。
The International Olympic Committee has established a contingency fund with a reserve of about one billion dollars to deal with emergencies.
万一东京奥运会被叫停，这笔资金将帮助国际奥委会和各大体育协会度过难关，维持机构正常运作。
In the event that the Tokyo Olympics are called off, the money will help the IOC and major sports associations weather the storm and keep the institution running.
根据国际奥委会2018年度财务报告，2013-2016年周期获得57亿美元的收入，其中，73%来自转播版权收入。
According to the 2018 annual financial report of the International Olympic Committee, 73 per cent of the $5.7 billion in revenue from the 2013-2016 cycle comes from rebroadcast copyright.
奥运会的历史上，没有因为公共卫生事件而取消的先例，此前只是在一战和二战期间被取消过三届比赛，东京曾受影响——1940年东京奥运会因二战被取消，直至1964年，东京才首次举办奥运会。
There is no precedent in the history of the Olympics for public health reasons. It was cancelled only three times during World War I and World War II, and Tokyo was affected - the 1940s Tokyo Olympic Games were cancelled by World War II, and it was not until 1964 that Tokyo hosted the Games for the first time.
即使3月份是全球抗击疫情的关键期，东京奥组委坚持奥运圣火传递活动照常进行。
Even though March is a crucial period in the global fight against the epidemic, the Tokyo Organizing Committee insists the Olympic flame relay proceed as usual.
根据计划，3月12日，圣火采集仪式将在奥运会发源地希腊古奥林匹亚举行，火炬将在希腊境内由600名火炬手传递3200公里，于3月19日抵达雅典帕纳辛奈科体育场，并转交给东京奥组委的代表。
The torch, which will be carried 3,200 km by 600 torchbearers from ancient Olympia, the birthplace of the Games, will arrive at Panasinenko Stadium in Athens on March 19 and handed over to representatives of the Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Games, according to plans.
日本境内的奥运火炬传递由3月26日开始，从日本福岛县第一核电站中转场所“J-village”出发，历时121天巡回日本47个都道府县。
The Olympic torch relay in Japan began on March 26 with a 121-day tour of Japan's 47 prefectures at the J-vilage, a staging area at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
东京新国立竞技场的火炬台，能否如期在7月24日开幕式上被点燃，各大相关组织或将在三个月后给出结论。
The torch relay in Tokyo's new Coliseum will be lit as scheduled at the opening ceremony on July 24, and major groups may issue their conclusions in three months.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
东京奥运会面临疫情困境：5月底或迎生死时限，延期易地办赛不现实。
The games in Tokyo face an epidemic: a late-May or life-and-death deadline, and a postponement of the Games is unrealistic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "东京奥运会面临疫情困境：5月底或迎生死时限，延期易地办赛不现实";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at the Tokyo Olympics: Late May or meeting the deadline for life and death, a delay in running a new local Olympics was unrealistic;;
var msg_desc = "如果日本当地疫情在今年5月底无法得到有效控制，这届奥运会有可能会被取消。
var msg _ desc = & quot; if the local epidemic in Japan was not effectively controlled by the end of May, the Olympics may have been cancelled.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
