疫情虽在，是时候复工了。
Despite the outbreak, it is time to get back to work.
老九论财经。
Old Nine About Finance.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
学会和疫情相处，在疫情下生存将是我们不得不接受的选择新冠特刊系列3「准备复工」点击下图，线上购买点击上图，下单新刊「准备复工」主笔 | 谢九新冠肺炎爆发一个月之后，逐渐度过了最恐慌无序的阶段，2月13日以来，全国新增确诊人数和死亡人数都开始明显下降。
Learn to live with the epidemic. Living with the epidemic will be the choice we have to accept. Click below to buy the new issue Ready for Work. A month after the outbreak of Xie Jiuxin Pneumonia, the most panic-stricken period has begun.
虽然还不能说拐点已到，但最黑暗的时刻可以说已经过去。
While the inflection point cannot yet be said to have arrived, the darkest hour can be said to have passed.
在疫情取得阶段性成效之际，另外一个战场的伤害却开始越来越明显地暴露出来，那就是经济领域。
As the epidemic gains momentum, the damage from another battleground is becoming increasingly apparent: the economy.
由于疫情带来大规模人员隔离、物流阻断等等，很多行业陷入减速甚至停摆的困境。
Due to the epidemic caused by large-scale personnel separation, logistics disruption and so on, many industries into a slowdown or even stop the plight.
如果迟迟无法恢复正常的生产状态，疫情对经济的冲击，将很快从旅游、餐饮等个别行业向整体蔓延。
If the resumption of normal production, the impact of the epidemic on the economy, will soon spread from tourism, catering and other individual industries to the overall spread.
到时候，无论是国家、企业还是个人，都将感受到经济减速带来的痛苦。
The pain of the slowdown will be felt by countries, businesses and individuals alike.
要避免疫情在更大范围内扩散，甚至再度反弹，需要对人员的大规模流动有所控制，与此同时，重启中国经济的活力和动力，又需要人员尽快返岗复工，两个目标似乎构成了天然的对立。
Avoiding a wider spread, or even a resurgence, of the epidemic would require some control over the massive movement of people, while relaunching the dynamism and dynamism of the Chinese economy and the need to get people back to work as soon as possible seem to constitute a natural antagonism.
如何在二者之间取得平衡，这已经是一个不容回避而且刻不容缓的两难选择。
How to strike a balance between the two is an unavoidable and urgent dilemma.
2月23日，一名商场服务员在等顾客时整理妆容。
On February 23, a mall attendant was waiting for customers to make up her face.
如果经济活动迟迟无法恢复正常，中国经济到底会遭遇多大的伤害呢？从消费来看，大量人员减少外出活动，除了最基本的消费之外，其余很多非必须的消费支出都大幅减少。
How much harm will China's economy suffer if economic activity does not return to normal? In terms of consumption, large numbers of people are cutting back on their activities, and much of the non-essential consumer spending, in addition to the most basic consumption, has fallen sharply.
即使最近部分人群开始走出家门，很多商家由于员工没有返岗，也无法给消费者提供足够的产品。
Even if some people start to leave their homes recently, many businesses are unable to provide consumers with enough products because their employees have not returned to work.
也就是说，无论是需求端还是供给端，都同时出现了萎缩。
That is, both the demand and supply sides have shrunk.
在中国经济的三驾马车中，消费已经成为第一大引擎，去年消费对GDP的贡献率达到了58%，如果疫情造成消费引擎长时间减速，对于中国经济的冲击不言而喻。
Consumption has become the largest engine of the Chinese economy's troika, accounting for 58% of GDP last year, and its impact on the economy is self-evident if the epidemic causes a prolonged slowdown in consumption engines.
疫情爆发之后，很多人都认为重灾区主要集中在旅游、餐饮等行业，但事实上，疫情的冲击范围之大超出想象。
After the outbreak, many people believed that the worst-hit areas were concentrated in tourism, catering and other industries, but in fact, the impact of the epidemic beyond imagination.
今年2月上旬，国内的汽车销量下降了92%，汽车是我国消费领域的传统大宗消费品，汽车销量的雪崩，可以看出疫情的冲击力到底有多强。
In the first half of February, domestic auto sales fell 92%. The avalanche in auto sales, the traditional consumer good in China, shows how powerful the epidemic really is.
2月14日，一名商场工作人员在商场门口检查顾客体温。
On Feb. 14, a mall worker inspects the customer's temperature at the entrance to the mall.
从投资引擎来看，我国投资的三大主力是制造业、基建和房地产，这三大行业都属于劳动密集型，在疫情爆发的特殊时期，都很难做到快速满员复工。
In terms of investment engines, China's three main sectors of investment are manufacturing, infrastructure, and real estate, all of which are labor-intensive, making it difficult to return to work quickly and at full capacity during the exceptional period of the outbreak.
比如郑州富士康，厂区员工人数高达二三十万人，大规模复工无疑潜藏着较大风险。
For example, Foxconn, Zhengzhou, the number of employees up to 2.3 million people, large-scale return to work there is no doubt that there are greater risks.
也正因为如此，很多富士康的员工迟迟不愿意返岗复工，以至于苹果公司发布公告，表示受到疫情影响，全球iPhone供应紧张，截至3月份的季度营收目标将无法实现。
As a result, many Foxconn employees have been so reluctant to return to work that Apple has announced that quarterly revenue targets for March will not be met because of the epidemic and tight global iPhone supplies.
从出口来看，最近几年，中国原本就面临较大的产业转移压力，东南亚和非洲等地已经承接了很多原本属于中国的外贸订单。
In terms of exports, China has been under considerable pressure to shift industries in recent years, with places such as Southeast Asia and Africa already taking over many foreign trade orders that originally belonged to China.
在疫情期间，如果中国出口企业迟迟无法复工，全球产业链可能会向东南亚以及非洲等地加速转移。
During the epidemic, if Chinese exporters are slow to resume work, global industrial chains could be shifting rapidly to places like Southeast Asia and Africa.
一旦产业链被替代，就很难再重新回来，很多出口型企业将遭受永久性伤害。
Once the industrial chain is replaced, it will be difficult to come back, many export-oriented enterprises will suffer permanent harm.
如果消费、投资和出口三大引擎都受到拖累，中国经济受到的冲击也就可想而知了。
If all three engines of consumption, investment, and exports suffer, the impact on China's economy is conceivable.
经济增速下滑，很快就会通过企业层面传递到个体，大部分个人都将感受到这场疫情带来的切肤之痛。
The economic slowdown will soon spread to individuals through the corporate sector, and most individuals will feel the pinch of the epidemic.
2月22日，富士康（太原）科技工业园职工乘坐“返岗直通车”，从家乡直达厂区，准备复工复产。
Feb. 22, Foxconn (Taiyuan) science and technology industrial park workers on the "back to work through train", from home directly to the factory area, ready to resume work.
最近，很多行业裁员降薪的新闻已经屡见不鲜，疫情对普通民众的经济伤害已经浮出水面，而这还仅仅只是一个开始。
Recent reports of layoffs and pay cuts in many industries have become commonplace, and the economic damage that the epidemic has inflicted on ordinary people is only the beginning.
目前为止，疫情爆发也才一个月时间，应该说，大部分企业的现金流才能够勉强支撑，裁员降薪的还只是少数，大部分企业选择和员工共克时艰。
So far, just a month into the epidemic, it should be said that the cash flow of most businesses can barely support, layoffs and wage cuts are still a minority, and most companies choose to work with their employees.
但是，一旦经济停摆时间延长到2个月甚至3个月，这将是绝大多数中小企业的现金流极限。
But once the economic pause is extended to two or even three months, this will be the cash flow limit for the vast majority of SMEs.
按照清华和北大最近的调研，有85%的中小企业现金流最多能支撑3个月。
According to recent research by Tsinghua and Peking University, 85% of small and medium-sized businesses have cash flow of up to three months.
为了减轻成本压力，换取活下去的时间和空间，到时候将会有越来越多的企业选择裁员降薪。
In order to reduce cost pressures in exchange for time and space to live, more and more businesses will choose to lay off workers and cut wages.
这也就意味着，未来一两个月才是真正的至暗时刻，如果不能及时复工，将会有越来越多的个体面临收入下降甚至失业的风险。
This means that the next month or two will be the real darkest hour, with more and more individuals at risk of falling incomes or even unemployment if they do not get back to work on time.
目前我国就业总人口为8亿多人，其中城镇就业人口约为4亿多，在城镇就业人口中，有3亿多人的就业由民营中小企业贡献。
At present, the total number of employed people in China is over 800 million, of which more than 400 million are employed in urban areas.
假设有80%的企业能够及时复工，剩余20%无法及时复工的企业裁员5%，对应的失业人口也高达300万人左右。
Assuming that 80 per cent of businesses return to work on time, the remaining 20 per cent of those unable to return to work on time will lose 5 per cent and the corresponding number of unemployed will be around 3 million.
由此也可以看出及时复工的紧迫性，复工的进度越往后推，企业被拖垮的概率越高，裁员的比例也就会越高。
It also shows the urgency of getting back to work in a timely manner, and the more progress is made in resuming work, the greater the probability that the enterprise will be pulled down and the higher the proportion of layoffs.
反之，企业复工越快，裁员的压力就会越小。
Conversely, the faster the company resumes work, the less pressure there will be for layoffs.
截至2月21日，山东、浙江、江苏、福建等华东地区复工率都超过70%。
By February 21, Shandong, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Fujian and other eastern China's return to work rate exceeded 70 percent.
疫情之下，民众还可能不得不面临通胀风险。
With the epidemic, people may also have to face the risk of inflation.
去年猪肉价格带动物价大幅上涨，去年年底的CPI指数一度高达4.5%，创下8年多的新高，很多人原本以为今年猪肉价格回落，物价形势会有所好转。
Pork prices drove up prices sharply last year, with the CPI at 4.5 per cent at the end of last year, a record high of more than eight years, and many had expected pork prices to fall this year and improve prices.
但是，今年的物价还是来了一个“开门红”，1月份的CPI指数大幅上涨了5.4%，大大超出人们的预期。
But this year prices have been a big hit, with January's CPI surging 5.4%, well above expectations.
对于物价的超预期上涨，国家统计局的解释是“主要是受春节及新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情因素影响。
The ONS explained the rise in prices as "mainly influenced by the pneumonia epidemic caused by the Spring Festival and the new coronavirus infection."
一直以来，控制通货膨胀都是中国经济社会发展的核心目标之一，每年的《政府工作报告》在展望新年工作时，都会重点列出一个通胀目标，比如3%。
Inflation control has always been one of the central objectives of China's economic and social development, and the government's annual report on its work for the New Year highlights an inflation target, say, 3%.
无论是对于中国还是世界上其他国家，控制通胀都是经济社会发展的重中之重。
For China and the rest of the world, controlling inflation is a top priority for economic and social development.
如果发生严重通胀，不仅会影响民众的正常生活，甚至会诱发社会群体性事件。
If serious inflation occurs, it will not only affect people's normal life, but also induce social group events.
如果中国经济不能及时复工，物价还有继续上涨的可能。
If China's economy does not get back to work in time, prices are likely to continue rising.
首先是因为市场的供需平衡被严重破坏，为物价上涨打下了牢固的基础。
The first is that the supply-demand balance of the market has been severely disrupted, laying a solid foundation for rising prices.
从供给方来看，由于各行业无法正常复工，市场的供给大幅减少，加上疫情期间物流能力下降，更在很大程度上加剧了供给侧的难度。
On the supply side, supply-side difficulties have been exacerbated to a large extent by the inability of industries to resume normal work, a significant reduction in the supply side of the market and a decline in logistics capacity during the epidemic.
在疫情初期，市场的供给可能还能够依靠库存来缓解，但是越到后期，库存越少，供给矛盾就会越来越突出。
At the beginning of the epidemic, the supply of markets may still be able to rely on stocks to mitigate them, but the lower the stocks at a later stage, the greater the supply conflicts.
而从需求来看，虽然全国人民大规模隔离减少了消费需求，但是对最基本的食品需求并不会有任何减少，甚至可能还会大幅增加。
And, in terms of demand, while massive population segregation has reduced consumer demand, there will not be any reduction in the demand for even the most basic food items, and may even increase significantly.
在我国的CPI构成中，食品占据最大的比重，食品价格的上升，往往是物价上涨的最大动力来源。
In the CPI constitution of our country, food occupies the biggest proportion, the food price rises, often is the biggest power source which the price rises.
2月19日，北京的一家主食商店提供“无接触”式服务。
On February 19th, a staple food store in Beijing offered a "no contact" service.
疫情爆发之后，为了缓解企业压力，货币政策也开始有所松动，这也会为物价上涨注入动力。
Monetary policy has also loosened in the wake of the outbreak to ease corporate pressure, which will also fuel price rises.
按照货币学大师弗里德曼的说法，所有的通货膨胀，归根结底都是货币现象。
According to Friedman, the master of money, all inflation is ultimately a monetary phenomenon.
在去年货币政策相对紧缩的背景下，我国的物价指数在年底还创出了8年新高，如果今年货币政策由紧转松，再叠加疫情期间供应不足，物价会上涨到怎样的程度呢？试想一下，如果一个普通人因为疫情遭遇了降薪甚至裁员，最后还要面临物价大幅上涨，这将是怎样的生存压力？从疫情防治的角度来看，当前大规模复工肯定会有潜在风险，只有等到疫情完全得到控制才是最安全稳妥的办法。
Given the relative tightening of monetary policy last year, China's price index reached an eight-year high at the end of this year.If monetary policy is loosened this year and the supply is inadequate during the period of the epidemic, what is the pressure on prices?
但无论是对中国经济，还是每个微小的个体，都无法承受如此长时间的等待。
But neither the Chinese economy nor every tiny individual can afford to wait so long.
学会和疫情相处，在疫情下生存，将是我们不得不接受的无奈但现实的选择。
Learning to live with the epidemic and survive it will be a helpless but realistic option that we have to accept.
点击小程序码，即可下单「准备复工」欢迎分享至朋友圈「准备复工」更多精彩| 封面故事 |复工复产，我们的另一个战场（谢九）中小企业的复工之路（黄子懿）“新冠”，上海防控之道（杨璐 薛芃）返沪“囧途”（薛芃）北京防控，体系与细节（丘濂 陈晓 刘畅）志愿者郑冲纪事（驳静）一个社区主任的抗疫经历（王海燕）| 社会 |时事：弹劾已毕，特朗普备战连任（刘怡）调查：线上买菜，生鲜电商的特殊红利期（王梓辉）调查：“车都”危与机（刘周岩）调查：疫情期间，雾霾因何而起？（严岩）| 文化 |文化：我们如何重读唐诗？（艾江涛）电影：谁在《一直游到海水变蓝》？（顾草草）电视：如果教宗也时尚（张星云）城景：走近帕米欧疗养病院（唐克扬）时尚：“时尚顽童”的告别派对（杨聃）食事：野味的特权（李飞力）思想：无所事事才是正事（薛巍）| 专栏 |邢海洋：快递何时快起来？袁越：TGN1412的启示张斌：6700万美元：平权的代价？宋晓军：埃尔多安的“软肋”朱德庸：大家都有病作者档案谢九《三联生活周刊》资深主笔     在嘈杂的时代独立思考26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信公众号：老九论财经（gh_2556c4453440）⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
2007-9-19 15: 19 Culture: Ready for Work (2002) Movie: Who Goes Back to Work (Xie Xue) Movie: Who Goes Back to Work 26 Minutes Ahead of TGN 144410) TVS: What's Up with the Pop-up?
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，下单新冠特刊「准备复工」点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠肺炎专刊组合】。
Click on the image below to download the new crown special issue of Ready for Work and go to the Weekly Bookstore to buy the New Crown Pneumonia Special Issue.
老九论财经。
Old Nine About Finance.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情虽在，是时候复工了。
Despite the outbreak, it is time to get back to work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情虽在，是时候复工了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; despite the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "学会与疫情相处";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with the epidemic.
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
