失序的日子里，疫区的普通人如何照常生活？。
In the days of disorder, how do ordinary people in affected areas live as usual?
张佳婧、葛书润。
Jing Zhang, Ge Shurun.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
这个冬天，疫情阴霾笼罩江城，居家的普通人也在经历着一种特殊的考验：面对骤然失序的生活，人们应该如何重建日常生活的秩序？她们尝试用镜头记述点滴，寻找答案。
This winter, with the epidemic looming over the city, ordinary people in their homes are experiencing a special test of how to re-establish order in their daily lives in the face of sudden disorder.
···············❶“白大褂脱下来了，但我手里还有相机。
The white coat was taken off, but I still had the camera in my hand.
”摄影师文吉在曾经工作的医院门外拍下了这张照片，从外部来看，医院非常的安静，谁也不知道里面正发生着什么。
Photographer Vingo took the picture outside the hospital where he used to work. From the outside, it was quiet and no one knew what was going on inside.
文吉戴着两层口罩，一个是防雾霾的，一个是棉的，都起不到多大防护的作用。
Vingi wore two masks, one for fog and one for cotton, which did not do much to protect her.
她在医院门口呆看了一会儿，没有进去，驱车返回。
She stayed in front of the hospital for a moment, did not enter, and drove back.
中国人民解放军中部战区总医院是收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，门口一块硕大的石头上刻着：“一切为了人民健康”。
The Central War Hospital of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) is the designated hospital for patients suffering from pneumonia, with a huge stone inscribed "Everything for the people's health."
文吉来到医院门口时，两个人正围着几个箱子讲话，文吉说：“但愿是口罩。
When Vingo arrived at the hospital gate, the two men were talking around several boxes. "I hope it's a mask," Vingo said.
"半年前，文吉从医院辞职，加入了一个摄影工作室。
& quot; Six months ago, Vincennes resigned from the hospital and joined a photography studio.
疫情爆发以后，文吉的父亲对女儿当初放弃医院安稳的工作的决定突然释怀了：“转行了也好，安全。
After the outbreak, Vincenzo's father was suddenly relieved by his daughter's decision to give up her safe job in the hospital.
”武汉封城前，文吉以为疫情十天半个月就会过去，还庆幸着这下不用上一线加班了。
Wuhan before the sealing of the city, Wenji thought the outbreak of half a month will be over, but also glad that this does not have to work on the first line of overtime.
但随着疫情的逐步扩大，文吉的心态又变了。
But as the epidemic spread, Vincenzo's mentality changed again.
辞职后，她还留在检验科的科室群里，刚封城那几天，群里充斥着各种物资缺乏的消息，快递停运，同事们自掏腰包买的防护服也收不到，文吉却“什么忙也帮不上”，她向朋友倾诉：“我好想上一线啊，我想跟以前的同事在一起……”过去的八年里，下图的中南路和武珞路的三叉路口是她每日通勤的必经之路。
After she resigned, she remained in the examination section, and for a few days after the closure of the city, the crowd was filled with news of shortages, couriers stopped deliveries, colleagues couldn't get protective clothing from their own pockets, and Vingi said to her friends: "I miss the line so much that I want to be with my former colleagues.
记忆里，早上七时一过，公交车与私家车便将这个路口塞得水泄不通，没有20分钟通不开。
Memory, at 7: 00 a.m., the bus and private cars will be the intersection will be jammed, there are no 20 minutes can not open.
1月24日下午四点，当她端着相机重走这条路时，画面上只剩下一红一黄两个快递小哥的制服颜色，鲜艳得有些刺眼。
At 4 p.m. on January 24th, when she returned to the road with her camera, there was nothing left but the bright colors of the uniforms of two courier boys, one red and one yellow.
这是武汉封城的第二天，连天的阴霾像给武汉套上了一个巨大的口罩，防止病毒扩散的同时，也闷住了这个城市平日的生气。
Wuhan is the second day of the city, the sky-like haze to Wuhan as a huge mask to prevent the spread of the virus, but also suffocate the city's usual vitality.
“九省通衢”的江城停滞了。
The thoroughfare of nine provinces has stagnated.
汽车站、火车站停运，景区空无一人，离开武汉的高速路口关闭。
Bus station, railway station stop, scenic area empty, leaving Wuhan high-speed junction closed.
文吉感慨：“我们的城市生病了，武汉真的生病了。
"Our city is sick and Wuhan is really sick," she lamented.
”   汉阳去往武昌方向的马路上，一块电子屏显示着“出城通道封闭，敬请理解支持。
Hanyang to Wuchang direction of the road, a video screen shows "out of the city channel closed, please understand the support.
”这条标语和路况信息在电子屏上滚动播出。
The slogan and road information scrolled across the electronic screen.
下午五点，文吉结束拍摄回到家里，洗了个澡，她马上开始处理今天的素材：“虽然白大褂已经脱下来了，但我手里还有相机。
At 5 p. m., when Vingo finished filming and went home to have a shower, she immediately started working on today's material: "Though the white coat is off, I still have the camera in my hand.
”修图修到一半，她看到了曾经的科室群里的新消息，照片里，她的旧同事们穿戴着全套的防护用具，对镜头比了个耶。
Halfway through the trimming, she saw new information from a former office block in which her former colleagues matched the camera in full protective gear.
封城前几天，文吉还不清楚疫情的势态，曾劝相识的医务工作者们不要做“伟人”，封城后，看到曾经的同事们的消息，却忍不住感叹她们的“伟大”。
A few days before the closure of the city, Vincennes did not know the epidemic situation, had advised the medical workers do not do "great men," after the closure of the city, see the former colleagues, but can not help but sigh their "great.
❷找回生活的秩序感这次拍摄回来之后，文吉决定除了买菜不再出门。
After returning from this shoot, Wen Ji decided not to go out except to buy vegetables.
她将镜头转向家中的生活，一天一天，就这么持续到了现在。
She turned the camera to her home life, and it continues to this day.
1月25日，文吉晒在阳台上五颜六色的袜子。
On January 25, Vincenzo basked in colorful socks on the balcony.
1月26日，文吉屯了一篮子漂亮的橙子。
On January 26, a beautiful basket of oranges was set up in Wingyton.
文吉和父亲住的小家不过七十个平方，装修的也简单，文吉更喜欢拍局部。
Wingji and his father lived in a small home only seventy square, decoration is also simple, Wingji prefer to shoot parts.
1月29日，文吉拍下这个微笑着的垃圾桶。
On January 29, Vincenzo snapped the smiling garbage can.
。
.
越发茂盛的酢浆草盆栽，摄于1月31日。
More prosperous wood sorrel potted on January 31.
从阳台俯瞰下去，邻居家的院子里开了一株小小的蔷薇花，长出了围栏。
Overlooking from the balcony, the neighbor's yard opened a small rose, growing a fence.
文吉写道：“在这样一个季节里，生命还在，还有花朵在绽放。
"In a season like this, life is alive and flowers are blooming," Vingi wrote.
”摄于2月7日。
Taken on February 7.
1月末，文吉开始练字，她说，抄写佛经的时候，能够获得一种久违的“平静”，摄于2月12日。
At the end of January, Wingji began practicing, she said, copying Buddhist sutras, can get a long-awaited "calm", February 12.
Play家里的阳台是唯一通向外界的地方，2月18日是个难得的晴天，风一吹，阳台上的风车便转动了起来。
The balcony of the Play's house was the only one to the outside world, February 18 is a rare sunny day, the wind blowing, the balcony on the windmill turned.
2月10日，文吉拎回来了一袋绿油油的新鲜蔬菜，莴笋叶子已被老板给好心去除了。
On Feb. 10, Vincenzo returned with a bag of green, fresh vegetables, the leaves of which had been kindly removed by the boss.
这些天，每周二次的采买是她仅有的外出活动，她总是戴着两层口罩，套一层薄膜手套，朝小区门口的菜贩子径直走去，快去快回。
These days, twice-weekly shopping is her only activity. She always wears a two-layer mask and a thin-film glove.
摆摊的是一对山东夫妇，一大早拉来一车蔬菜在小区门口卖，价格与平常几乎无异。
The spread is a couple of Shandong, early in the morning to pull a load of vegetables sold in front of the plot, the price is almost the same as usual.
家庭主妇小婕的居家图片日记，则是受文吉启发开始的。
Housewife Xiaojie's family picture diary, is inspired by Wenjie started.
刚封城那几天，小婕焦虑不安。
Jasmine was nervous for a few days.
封城前来家中做客的朋友出现了肺炎症状，等待检查结果的那段时间，小婕“整个人的心一直是悬着的”。
The friend who came to the city to visit her family developed symptoms of pneumonia, waiting for the results of the examination, "the whole person's heart has been hanging.
有次女儿凑上来找妈妈，小婕一时没控制住，朝女儿吼，“你自己找个地方玩儿去，我现在没有心情陪你！”即便后来知道，朋友得的是普通肺炎，小婕始终难以打消心中紧张感。
Jasmine roared at her daughter, "You find yourself somewhere to play, I'm not in the mood to accompany you!" Even later, when she learned that her friend was suffering from ordinary pneumonia, Xiaojie found it difficult to relieve her tension.
1月下旬，各种糟糕的新闻遍布网络，她和朋友打电话聊疫情，一打打到凌晨。
In late January, when bad news broke out all over the internet, she phoned friends to talk about the epidemic and hit her until the wee hours.
直到看见文吉的几组居家照片，小婕才稍稍缓解了自己的负面情绪。
It wasn't until she saw several sets of pictures of her family that Xiaojie eased her negative mood slightly.
看着色调明亮的图片，小婕感到“像回归了正常生活。
Looking at the bright picture, Xiao Jie felt "like a return to normal life.
”此后，她开始以同样的方式记录一家人的生活。
"She began to record her family's life in the same way.
年前一周，小婕从姐姐的花店带回来一株水仙，刚封城时它还含苞，2月6日便完全盛开了。
A week ago, from her sister's flower shop, brought back a narcissus, when the city was still bud, February 6 full bloom.
如果以水仙所感知的时间来计算，14天正好足够一株花含羞又开败，等待下一蔟预备军的到来。
In the daffodils' perception of time, 14 days was enough to bring a single flower to shame and defeat, waiting for the next ball to arrive.
小女儿哎呀生日的那天，因为没有迎来一场想象中的热闹生日，哎呀一直噘着嘴表示不满，小婕带她观察生态瓶里面的小虾米转移注意力。
On her birthday, Jay pursed up her lips to express her displeasure at the lack of an imaginary birthday, and Xiao Jie took her to watch the shrimp inside the bottle to distract her attention.
那是1月23日上午，武汉封城的第一天，也是哎呀的四岁生日。
It was the first day of the city of Wuhan on the morning of January 23rd, and it was Alas fourth birthday.
两个孩子不理解“封城”的含义，更不懂什么是“新型冠状病毒”，他们期待的是小伙伴们和爷爷奶奶、姥姥姥爷能一起来给她过生日、唱生日歌、吹蜡烛、切蛋糕。
The two children did not understand the meaning of "sealing the city," let alone what is "the new coronavirus," they are looking forward to small partners, grandparents and grandparents together to celebrate her birthday, sing birthday songs, blow candles, cut cake.
毕竟“别的小朋友都有的。
After all, there are all the other kids.
”经过卧室，小婕看见兄妹俩黏在窗户玻璃上往下望，两人一边喝着牛奶，一边念叨着：“萌萌姐姐会来吗？姗姗姐姐会来吗？她们说了要来的。
After the bedroom, Jasmine saw her brother and sister glued to the window glass. As they drank the milk, they said to each other, "Will Sister Germination come? Will Sister Shanshan come?
”看到这个场景，小婕“鼻子酸酸的”。
"See this scene, Xiaojie" nose sour.
小婕把两个孩子揽在怀里耐心解释：”我们现在正在打一场仗，敌人的名字叫冠状病毒，它会让你生病，现在外面已经有很多很多人被它伤害了。
"We are fighting a battle, the name of the enemy is called coronavirus, it will make you sick, and now there are a lot of people outside it hurt.
前线的医生护士在帮助生病的人。
Doctors and nurses at the front are helping the sick.
我们后方的人，要老老实实在家里呆着，不让敌人找到我们。
Those of us in the rear must stay at home honestly and not let the enemy find us.
“   封城前一天预订的蛋糕准时送来了。
'The cake ordered the day before was delivered on time.
晚上，一家四口给小女儿过了个简单的生日。
In the evening, the family of four gave the little girl a simple birthday.
1月29日，小婕在朋友圈里分享了据说最难吃的泡面——香菇炖鸡面的升级版配方：在锅内倒入纯净水，待到锅壁出现小气泡，再倒入面饼和所有调料包，水开了继续煮两分钟，关火后撒点黑胡椒粉，滴几滴小麻油。
On January 29, Jasmine shared with her friends an updated recipe for mushroom stew noodles, said to be the worst to eat: Pour pure water into a pan, until a small bubble appeared on the wall, then poured bread and all seasonings, boiled water for two minutes, shut down the fire sprinkled with black pepper and a few drops of sesame oil.
现在，改良版的香菇炖鸡面已经是一家人的最爱了。
Now, the improved version of mushroom noodles stewed chicken is the family's favorite.
元宵前几天，小婕夫妻俩给孩子做了好几种口味的米酒汤圆。
A few days before the Lantern Festival, the couple made several kinds of rice wine soup dumplings for her children.
有芝麻馅儿的，花生馅儿的，色彩各异。
There are sesame filling, peanut filling, different colors.
家里的猫咪照常起了个大早，在厨房等着她“爹”，“爹”一来，小猫蹭地跳上他的肩膀。
As usual, the cat got up early and waited in the kitchen for her father. When Daddy came, the kitten jumped on his shoulder.
2月7日，小婕和孩子们一同做起了面食“猫耳朵”，这是一家人的传统活动。
On February 7, Jet and the children together to make pasta "cat ears," which is a traditional family event.
两个孩子在她的指导下把面团搓成小球，撒上面粉，用大拇指按扁往前一推。
Under her direction, the children rubbed the dough into small balls, sprinkled flour, and pushed forward with their thumbs.
女儿还练就了双手按压的“绝技”，“妈妈你看，我还可以闭着眼睛摁。
The daughter also practiced the two hands pressure on the "stunt", "Mom, you see, I can still close their eyes.
”疫情发生前，孩子们也常常帮小婕剥豆子、择菜、打鸡蛋、包饺子。
Before the outbreak, children often helped Jie peel beans, choose vegetables, beat eggs, make dumplings.
看着两个孩子专心致志做猫耳朵的样子，小婕发现，这个场景和平日里一家人做饭的画面没有什么不同，她感到前所未有的放松与享受。
Watching her two children focus on their cat's ears, Jasmine found the scene was no different from the usual family cooking scene. She felt more relaxed and enjoying than ever.
❸“待将九九消寒尽，便是春风入户时”虽然无法再上前线，文吉从大年初一起参与了志愿者线上协调物资的工作，她加了四五个500人的大群，在朋友圈里频繁地发着物资捐赠案例、志愿者招募信息。
"Zen" to the end of the cold, is the spring breeze into the house "although no longer on the front line, Wenji from the New Year's Day to participate in the coordination of supplies, she added a group of four or five hundred people, frequent in friends donated cases, volunteer recruitment information.
在志愿者们的帮助下，几十吨的消毒液原液、几千吨的免费蔬菜被送到疫区的医院与社区。
With the help of volunteers, dozens of tons of disinfectant and thousands of tons of free vegetables were delivered to hospitals and communities in affected areas.
一个月过去，这些工作已融入了文吉的生活。
A month later, these jobs were integrated into Vincenzo's life.
文吉所属的民间志愿者团队“E起支援”协助了多起物资捐赠，这是获得捐助物资的部分医院和社区出具的接收函。
Vincenzo's team of civilian volunteers, "E-Hands Up," helped with several donations, including letters of acceptance from some of the hospitals and communities that received donations.
文吉的摄影师同事Luna也在家中进行着线上的志愿者工作。
Vincenzo's photographer colleague Luna is also doing volunteer work online at home.
1月下旬，Luna帮助着境外的朋友联系物资捐赠的渠道，物资运输困难重重，再加上1月30日前后红会物资的调配问题被曝光，坏消息频繁，Luna情绪低迷。
In late January, Luna helped friends from outside the country to contact the aid pipeline for material donations, which was complicated by difficulties in transporting supplies, as well as revelations about the deployment of ICRC supplies on or around 30 January, with frequent bad news and low Luna sentiment.
2月初的一天，在湖北咸宁老家多日足不出户的Luna忽然发现后院的一株梅花冒了花苞。
One day in early February, Luna, who had been in her hometown of Xianning, Hubei province, suddenly noticed a plum blossom sprouting from the backyard.
梅花是武汉的市花，她去院子里折了一枝，插在家中花瓶里，记录下这抹冬天里珍贵的亮色。
The plum blossom is Wuhan's city flower, she went to the yard folded a branch, inserted in the family vase, recorded this wipe winter precious bright color.
她在微博里写下一句，“每个黑暗的日子都记得寻找光的来处”。
She wrote in micro-blog, "Every dark day remember to look for the place of light."
连续一周，她换着法拍梅花。
For a week in a row, she changed hands to plum.
只能呆看一枝梅的日子里，一些热心人、热心事也慢慢成为了她“光的来处”——她有一个身在海外的朋友，父亲在本地承包了荷塘种藕，“承包池塘的钱还是跟他女儿借的。
Only to see a prune days, some warm-hearted people, warm-hearted things slowly became her "light of the place" - she has a friend overseas, the father contracted lotus lotus lotus root, "contract pond money or his daughter borrowed money.
”但没想到这些藕的丰收正撞上了疫情，老先生把整车的藕全数捐给了疫区。
But did not expect that the bumper harvest of these lotus root hit the epidemic situation, the old gentleman donated the whole car lotus root to the epidemic area.
李文亮医生去世那天，Luna拍了一组《梅之殇》。
On the day of Dr. Lee's death, Luna shot a series of "Meiji's Shame."
一枝已经绽放的梅花躺在蓝天与黑色的枯枝里，像在仰天呐喊。
A blooming plum blossom lies in the dead branches of blue sky and black, like a cry in the sky.
古人有制“九九消寒图”迎春的习惯，自冬至入九起每日描一花瓣，“待将九九消寒尽，便是春风入户时”。
The ancients have a system of "Jiujiu cold map" Spring, since the winter solstice nine petals daily, "until the end of the cold, is the spring breeze into the house."
后来的日子里，寒梅渐盛。
In the days that followed, the plum grew stronger.
2月15日，武汉下了初雪，文吉小区里的梅花也开了。
February 15, Wuhan under the early snow, Wenji district of the plum also opened.
她回想起疫情刚开始时，枝头才刚结出花苞。
She recalled the buds that had just sprouted from the beginning of the outbreak.
那天，文吉在阳台上拍到了一位撑伞前行的路人。
On the balcony that day, Vingi caught a passer-by walking under an umbrella.
“那天风也大，天又冷，下着雪，不知道他要去哪儿呢？” 在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：张佳婧 葛书润编辑：刘楚楚摄影：文吉 小婕 Luna运营编辑：二水。
"It was windy and cold and it was snowing, so I don't know where he was going," wrote Zhang Jia Jing, editor of Ge Shu-run: Liu Jie-jie Luna, editor-in-chief: Ershui.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
失序的日子里，疫区的普通人如何照常生活？。
In the days of disorder, how do ordinary people in affected areas live as usual?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "失序的日子里，疫区的普通人如何照常生活？";。
; How did ordinary people in affected areas live at & quot; at & quot; day with disorder?;
var msg_desc = "秩序塌方，日常是信仰";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; orderly collapse; & quot; & quot; routine & quot; & quot;
title: '黄冈封城：在疫区，两个儿子的药物传递',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情生活同题问答：复杂现实中可以完成一次很好的自我教育',。
Q: What does AT & amp; Q: What & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情生活同题问答：摘掉口罩相遇的那一天，请互相点头微笑吧',。
Q: What's the date of your meeting with your mask? Please shake your head and smile with your face?
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
