难念的经：温州复工克难记。
Difficult to read: Wenzhou resumption of work hard to remember.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
The following article comes from 等深线。
The following article comes from the bathymetric line.
Author 晏耀斌。
Author Anor Yaobin.
等深线。
Bathymetric line.
深度报道。
In-depth coverage.
2月17日，是温州白名单企业（又称规上企业）正式复工的日子。
Feb. 17, Wenzhou white list of enterprises (also known as the business requirements) officially resume work.
相比国务院和浙江省规定的复工期限，作为新冠肺炎疫情重灾区的温州，整整晚了7天。
Wenzhou, the worst hit by the new outbreak of pneumonia, is seven days late compared with the deadline set by the State Council and Zhejiang Province.
以2月10日为时间节点，浙江省以及下辖各市相继出台了稳企业稳经济政策和企业复工的有关前置条件。
With Feb. 10 as the time node, Zhejiang Province and the municipalities under its jurisdiction have successively issued stable economic policies and enterprises return to work related preconditions.
包车、包飞机抢工人返岗，浙江站上了复工的热搜榜，略显滞后的温州启动了追赶的模式。
Cars, aircraft hijack workers back to work, Zhejiang station on the hot search list, slightly lagging Wenzhou started the catch-up model.
2月17日上午，员先生接到辖区街道办干部要求他填写复工申请的电话通知，他躺在床上回复，“连社区大门都出不了，怎么复工？”员先生在温州经营一家100人左右的制鞋厂，疫情暴发后社区采取了封闭式管理，自春节以来他还未踏出过家门一步。
On the morning of February 17, Mr. Yuan received a telephone call from a street official in the district asking him to fill in the telephone call for his application to return to work. He was lying in bed and replied, "How can we get back to work?" Mr. Wen runs a shoe factory for about 100 people in Wenzhou.
员先生天天盯着新冠肺炎实时动态，盘算着何时能复工，却又害怕去想今年公司的发展目标能不能实现。
The man stares daily at the real-time dynamics of New Crown Pneumonia, wondering when to get back to work and wondering if the company's development goals will be achieved this year.
2月20日上午，员先生所在的小区解除了封闭式管理，他很兴奋地开车去见了几个朋友。
On the morning of Feb. 20, Mr. Yuan's community was released from closed management and he was very excited to drive to meet some friends.
他们交流后发现复工的企业并不多，复工遇到的障碍还不少。
Their exchanges revealed that not many businesses are returning to work and that there are still many obstacles to returning to work.
严峻形势下，每家温州复工企业都要承担起员工疫情防控的成本，还得要经受住上游原材料短缺、下游销售渠道关闭以及物流系统不畅通等种种困难。
Under the severe situation, every Wenzhou resumption of industrial enterprises have to bear the cost of staff disease prevention and control, but also to withstand upstream raw materials shortages, the closure of downstream sales channels and logistics systems.
“结论是复工很难，不复工更难，开工亏损，不开工同样亏损。
"The conclusion is that it's hard to get back to work, harder not to get back to work, to start losing money and not to start doing the same.
”员先生和他们的朋友们感到从未有过的“心里没底”。
"The man and his friends felt as if they had never had a heart.
2月23日，复工口号中出现了“赶快出门务工，不要坐吃山空”的条幅，而温州各区县之间的交通障碍也迅速被撤掉了，温州复工热情明显提高。
On February 23, the slogan back to work appeared "hurry out of the work, do not sit down to eat" banners, and Wenzhou between the counties of the traffic barrier was quickly removed, Wenzhou resumed work enthusiasm markedly improved.
作为民营经济发展的先发地区与改革开放的前沿阵地，2019年温州完成6606亿元的GDP，紧随杭州、宁波之后排名浙江第三，继续高举“民营经济看温州”的大旗。
As a pioneer area of private economic development and a frontier of reform and opening-up, Wenzhou achieved a GDP of 660.6 billion yuan in 2019, ranking third in Zhejiang province after Hangzhou and Ningbo, and continuing to hold high the banner of "Wenzhou in the light of the private economy."
本次疫情之下，温州的复工节奏引人关注。
This epidemic situation, Wenzhou's resumption of work rhythm is of concern.
复工等待中2月9日，浙江省委常委会召开扩大会议研究，在前一段防疫和生活保障相关企业复工的基础上，从2月10日开始，因地因时、分类有序推进企业复工复产。
Work resumed on Feb. 9, Zhejiang Provincial Standing Committee convened an expanded meeting to study, on the basis of the previous period of epidemic prevention and life support related enterprises to resume work, from February 10, due to the time, orderly classification of enterprises to resume work to resume production.
2月10日，浙江出台“坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战、全力稳企业稳经济稳发展”的30条意见。
February 10, Zhejiang issued "resolutely win the epidemic prevention and control of the fight against the disease, all efforts to stabilize the economic stability of enterprises" 30 comments.
温州、绍兴、宁波、嘉兴、丽水、金华等浙江各地纷纷出台企业复工政策。
Wenzhou, Shaoxing, Ningbo, Jiaxing, Yeshui, Jinhua and other Zhejiang enterprises have launched a return to work policy.
其中，作为新冠肺炎重灾区的温州于2月10日出台了支持中小企业共渡难关的28条措施。
Wenzhou, the worst-hit area of the new crown pneumonia, on February 10 unveiled 28 measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises to tide over the difficulties together.
截至2月9日24时，浙江省累计报告新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例1092例，其中温州市确诊病例为464例，几乎是浙江确诊病例的一半。
As of 2400 hours on February 9, 1092 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia have been reported in Zhejiang Province, including 464 confirmed cases in Wenzhou, nearly half of those confirmed in Zhejiang Province.
数据显示，温州在武汉经商、务工、就学的人员约18万人，温州市前期累计排查出武汉及周边重点地区返回温州人员4.88万人。
Data show that Wenzhou in Wuhan business, labor, school personnel about 180,000 people, Wenzhou early cumulative clearance of Wuhan and the surrounding key areas returned to Wenzhou personnel 48,800.
2月13日，温州叶先生在接受《等深线》记者采访时表示，“温州这次对疫情防控措施落实很果断，2月6日封城，各个小区依然24小时严守把关，生活用品由社区工作人员安排。
"This time Wenzhou has been very decisive in implementing measures to prevent and control the epidemic," Mr Ye told the Bathymetric Line in an interview on Feb. 13. "Feb. 6, communities remain under 24-hour guard and supplies are arranged by community workers.
”温州制订了企业复工复产时间表：2月17日24时前，“四类”重点企业可立即复工；所谓四类重点企业是指，全市疫情防控必需、保障城市运行和企业生产、群众生活必需、重点项目建设施工以及其他涉及重要国计民生的相关生产企业、转产企业和配套企业。
Wenzhou has set a timetable for the resumption of production: By 2400 hours on February 17, key enterprises in the "four categories" can resume work immediately.
2月17日24时后，“白名单”企业优先复工；所谓白名单企业是指，第一类是重点出口企业、上市企业、雄鹰型培育企业、领军型企业、高成长型企业、隐形冠军企业、隐形冠军培育企业、省级及以上数字化车间/智能工厂和智能制造示范企业、“亩均论英雄”A类企业、创新型领军企业、高新技术企业；第二类是重点商贸企业、重点服务业企业、重点建筑企业和重点工程、重点房地产开发企业等。
After 2400 hours on February 17, white-list enterprises will be given priority to resume work. The first category includes key export enterprises, listed enterprises, eagle-breeding enterprises, leading enterprises, high-growth enterprises, invisible champions, invisible champions, A-class enterprises, innovative leading enterprises and hi-tech enterprises.
具体清单由属地政府及管委会确定。
The specific list is determined by the territorial Government and the MC.
2月22日24时之后，其他企业有序复工。
After 2400 hours on 22 February, other enterprises resumed work in an orderly manner.
2月25日，《温州日报》刊发报道《看战“疫”中的温州这样精准复苏》，其中写道：对企业来说，按下“重启键”并非易事。
It was not easy for companies to press the "restart button," Wen said in a report published in the Wenzhou Daily on Feb. 25.
物流不畅、原材料缺乏、现金流紧张……只要一个环节掉了链子，生产线就开动不了。
Poor logistics, lack of raw materials, tight cash flow... as long as a link dropped the chain, the production line will not be able to start.
好在，一个个破解办法、一个个兜底政策、一项项补贴补助很快就应声落地。
Fortunately, one decryption, one-by-one policies, a subsidy subsidy should soon fall to the ground.
电气、服装、泵阀、汽摩配、鞋业是温州的五大支柱产业。
Electrical, clothing, pump valves, auto-motorcycle, shoes industry is Wenzhou's five pillars of industry.
资料显示，2019年温州规上工业总产值突破5000亿元，约达到5200亿元，其中鞋革和服装产业几乎占据三分之一产值，鞋革的工业总产值预计2020年将突破1300亿元。
Figures for 2019 show that Wenzhou gross industrial output value exceeded 500 billion yuan, or about 520 billion yuan, with shoe leather and clothing accounting for almost one-third of the output value, and shoe leather is expected to exceed 130 billion yuan by 2020.
大东鞋业有限公司（下称“大东鞋业”）是温州最大的制鞋与销售公司，在经历了25年发展后，目前以6000名员工的规模，取代了百丽、达芙妮等老牌制鞋公司一跃成为全国鞋业的先锋。
After 25 years of development, Dadong Shoes Co., Ltd., the largest shoe and sales company in Wenzhou, has replaced traditional shoe makers such as Belle and Daphne with 6,000 employees to spearhead the national footwear industry.
大东鞋业一高管告诉《等深线》（ID：depthpaper）记者，面对突如其来的新冠肺炎，大东鞋业计划2月3日开工，政府不允许，开工一推再推。
A Dadong shoemaker executive told ID: depthpaper.Faced with an unexpected outbreak of pneumonia, the company plans to begin work on Feb. 3, and the government will not allow it to do so.
“各方面准备都不足，预计3月1日正式开工。
"Preparations are lacking on all fronts, and the official start of work is expected on 1 March.
”所谓的规上企业，即为年产值在2500万元以上的企业。
"The so-called regular enterprises are those with an annual output value of 25 million yuan or more.
在复产号召下，温州市动员温州巨一集团、森马集团等规上企业在2月18日正式复工复产，但像大东鞋业等众多规上企业依然还在准备当中。
Under the call to resume production, Wenzhou City mobilized Wenzhou Ju-yi Group, Sengma Group and other enterprises in the formal resumption of production on February 18, but a number of enterprises such as Dadong shoe industry are still in preparation.
企业有顾虑继“温州28条”后，温州市企业复工操作手册、一系列税收优惠政策、人力社保部门14条举措保障企业用工等文件、举措相继出台，旨在帮助支持企业克服困难、恢复生产。
Enterprises are concerned that after Wenzhou 28, Wenzhou enterprises return to work operation manual, a series of preferential tax policies, 14 measures to protect enterprises from labor and social security departments, and other documents and initiatives, aimed at helping enterprises overcome difficulties and resume production.
这些鼓励措施包括补贴企业员工宿舍租金、包车补贴、返岗交通补贴、自驾返岗补贴等等，旨在推进企业复工复产，打通员工返岗堵点。
These incentives include subsidized rental of dormitories for employees of enterprises, subsidies for car charters, transport subsidies for returning to work, subsidies for self-driving back to work, etc., aimed at facilitating the resumption of work and opening the way for workers to return to work.
温州市瓯海区更是将员工返岗与新居民积分挂钩。
Wenzhou Ouhai Ouhai City is the return of staff and new residents points linked.
该区文件规定：对上年度在规上企业就业的老员工，如果于2月29日前返瓯的计新居民积分3分，3月15日前计1分。
District documents: the previous year in the regular employment of enterprises, if the return of new residents before February 29 points points, March 15 count 1.
如果老员工带的新员工在瓯就业满三个月的，按每带1名员工计1分标准计入老员工新居民积分。
If the older employees bring new employees in the Mandarin employment for three months, at each staff member count 1 point into the old staff new resident points.
工厂复工首先面临疫情防控这一关。
The factory is facing the epidemic prevention and control first.
员先生曾粗略计算过，工厂如果开门，首先要备齐口罩、消毒水、护目镜、测温计、消毒专员、员工单间以及单独隔离间等，以60个工人计算，疫情防护一个月增加10万元成本并不算什么。
Mr Yuan has roughly calculated that if the factory opens the door, it would cost nothing to add $100,000 a month to the cost of protection against the disease, with 60 workers, first of all equipped with masks, disinfectants, goggles, thermometers, sanitizers, staff rooms and separate rooms.
“最大的风险来自有员工感染。
"The biggest risk comes from employee infections.
”黄先生在温州经营着一家50多人规模的鞋模厂，他和员先生有着同样的顾虑。
Mr Huang, who runs a more than 50-person shoe and mold factory in Wenzhou, shares Mr Wen's concerns.
他介绍，企业复工需要向所在街道办一级级上报，上报过程中会要求填写复工备案表、复工防控表、复工疫情防控承诺书、新冠肺炎防控应急预案、食堂防控措施、宿舍防控措施等表格。
During the reporting process, enterprises will be required to fill out a return to work filing form, resume work control form, commitment to prevent and control epidemic diseases, emergency plan for prevention and control of new crown pneumonia, canteen control measures, dormitory control measures, and other forms.
“责任都在企业，很可怕的。
"The responsibility lies with the company. It's terrible.
”黄先生不敢想象，一旦公司有一个员工感染，所有的员工都得隔离，他们都需要单独的隔离间，费用全部由企业承担。
Mr Huang can't imagine that once a company has an employee infected, all employees have to be quarantined, they all need separate compartments, and the cost is borne entirely by the company.
“政府可以封城，企业能做的只有停工。
"The government can close the city. All companies can do is stop work.
”“生产过程中一旦出现问题，就必须要关停，后续的费用将是企业无法想象的。
"When something goes wrong in the production process, it has to be shut down, and the subsequent costs will be unthinkable to the enterprise.
”复工是闯关复工意愿，在政府、企业和工人心中，是相似的，但企业是否复工则是另外一个存在。
The desire to return to work is similar in the minds of governments, businesses and workers, but whether or not the enterprise returns to work is another.
温州童装协会副会长邓先生在接受《等深线》记者采访时表示，绝大多数企业是愿意复工的，哪家企业也不愿意等着关门，但意愿解决不了复工问题。
Deng, vice president of Wenzhou Children's Wear Association, told the Bathymetric Line that the vast majority of companies are willing to return to work, and which companies are unwilling to wait to close, but are unwilling to solve the problem.
邓先生的工厂有700多名工人，主要做成品服装。
Mr. Deng's factory has more than 700 workers, mainly in finished clothes.
“对于温州鞋服行业来说，2020年春季注定是个亏损的季节，复工与不复工都改变不了亏损的局面。
"For Wenzhou shoe industry, the spring of 2020 is bound to be a loss season, the resumption of work and do not resume work will not change the situation.
”邓先生分析，开工后的企业风险将会更大，一个确诊病例就可以毁掉一个企业。
Mr Deng argues that the risks of starting a business will be greater, with a single confirmed case destroying a business.
截至2月20日24时，浙江省累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例1177例，其中温州504例。
As of 2400 hours February 20, Zhejiang Province reported a total of 1177 confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia, of which 504 were in Wenzhou.
这一天中午12点，温州市出现浙江省首个新冠肺炎死亡病例。
At 12: 00 noon that day, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, the first case of death from pneumonia.
经前期排查，温州市以外的“三返”人员将达207.6万人，温州疫情防控工作压力可想而知。
Pre-screening, Wenzhou outside the "three return" will reach 2.076,000 people, Wenzhou epidemic prevention and control work pressure can be imagined.
浙江民营投资企业联合会会长周德文在接受《等深线》记者采访时表示，一些规模小的民企恐怕更为艰难，有可能出现较大面积的中小微企业关门歇业。
In an interview with Bathymetric Line, Zhou Devin, president of Zhejiang Private Investment Enterprises Association, said that some smaller private enterprises were more difficult and that there was a risk that a larger number of MSMEs would close down.
温州鞋服行业属于劳动密集型行业，打通工人返岗堵点只是复工的第一步。
Wenzhou footwear industry is a labor-intensive industry, workers back to open the blockage is only the first step back to work.
黄先生困在家里，并没有中断和员工的交流。
Mr Huang is stuck at home without interrupting his communication with his staff.
黄先生发现，工人闲的太无聊了，加上房贷、车贷等经济压力，都想着能尽快工作。
Mr Huang found that workers were too bored, combined with financial pressures such as mortgages and car loans, to work as quickly as possible.
“现在工人比以前好管多了，以前工人动不动要跳槽，老板还得让着他们。
"Workers are more in charge now than ever before. Workers used to change jobs so often, and bosses have to let them go.
现在工作机会减少了，企业老板即使复工也是找回少量工人。
With fewer jobs now, business owners are finding back a small number of workers even when they get back to work.
”黄先生的工厂从事制鞋模具开发，生意来自下单开发和自主开发。
Mr. Huang's factory is engaged in shoe-making mold development, with business coming from order development and independent development.
“下单开发主要是给大东等企业提供模具，自主开发是企业根据市场的判断来开发，无论哪一种开发，模具只有使用的频率越高，利润才更大。
"Order development is mainly to provide enterprises such as Dadong mold, independent development is based on the judgement of the market to develop, no matter which development, the higher the frequency of mold use, more profit.
”温州鞋服行业实实在在错过了春季，能不能赶上夏季才是企业考虑的问题。
Wenzhou shoe-wear industry has missed the spring, whether it can catch up with the summer is a matter of enterprise consideration.
而黄先生的模具开发完全取决于下游鞋服厂家的复工和销售计划，用工反而不是特别紧急的问题。
Mr. Huang's mold development depends entirely on downstream shoeswear manufacturers and sales plans, the use of workers is not a particularly urgent issue.
“用工企业只是试探性复工而已，用工荒不应该是现在，而是未来真正复工的那一天。
"Employment is just a tentative return to work, labor shortage should not be the present, but the future of a real return to work.
”怎么活下去“宅”在家里，纠结着企业。
How to live "house" at home, entangled in the business.
叶先生在家已经待了快一个月，“吃了睡，睡了吃”是全部工作，但食之无味夜不能寐。
Mr Ye has been at home for nearly a month. "Eat, sleep and eat" is all he does, but he can't sleep at night.
“100多号人，工人都是恩施的（湖北），本来去年收益就不是很好，现在我考虑工厂不开了。
"More than 100 people, the workers are benevolent (Hubei), originally last year's earnings were not very good, now I think the factory can not open.
”2月12日，叶先生表示。
On February 12, Mr Ye said.
和叶先生一样，员先生同样感到压力。
Mr. A, like Mr. Ye, feels the same pressure.
他的鞋厂在福建，销售公司在温州，目前原材料无法运输，工人无法到岗以及出口面基本停滞。
His shoe factory is in Fujian, the sales company is in Wenzhou, raw materials cannot be transported, workers are unable to reach their jobs and the export side is largely stagnant.
“工人工资、办公室租金、水电气等费用等，每个月亏损几十万，真的亏不起。
"Workers are losing hundreds of thousands of dollars a month on wages, office rent, utilities, etc., and cannot afford to lose money.
”周德文曾给记者计算，“对于一家养着170位员工的公司来说，如果一个月没活干，公司老板就得准备好400万-500万元现金流。
"For a company with 170 employees, the boss has to be ready for cash flow of $4m to $5m if it doesn't work for a month," Zhou told reporters.
对于数量众多的小微企业来说，他们离破产或许只有一两个月。
For a large number of micro and small businesses, they may be only a month or two away from bankruptcy.
”李先生的鞋底厂，属于规上企业，工人在600人左右。
Mr. Li's sole factory is a regular company with about 600 workers.
截至目前，李先生还没有开工，也没有工人回来。
So far, Mr Li has not started work and no workers have returned.
“物流不畅通，上下游供应链不打通，企业面临的不是复工问题，而是存亡问题。
"Logistics is not smooth, upstream and downstream supply chain is not open, enterprises are not facing the issue of back-to-work, but survival.
”李先生介绍，以成本品鞋为例，制鞋厂销售渠道有三个：公司单、市场单和外贸单。
Taking cost items as an example, Mr. Li said there were three channels for shoe makers to sell: single companies, market orders and foreign trade lists.
公司单是鞋厂由康奈、百丽等公司来提前预定、提前生产；市场单则是面向批发市场、街面店铺等等供货；而外贸单只能根据不同国家不同需求来生产。
The company only by the company Conneh, Belle and other companies to pre-order, advance production; market single for wholesale markets, street shops, and so on; foreign trade orders can only be produced according to the different needs of different countries.
熟知这个行业的都知道，依赖专卖店销售模式的康奈、百丽等公司，在疫情暴发后面临春季销售基本为零的业绩。
Companies familiar with the industry know that companies such as Connell and Belle, which rely on exclusive store sales, face near-zero sales in the spring after the outbreak.
“公司单要比市场单早两个月，也就是说康奈、百丽的成品在去年11月份甚至更早就完成了，现在应该到了上夏季货品的时候了。
"The order comes two months ahead of the market, meaning the Connell and Belle finished last November or even earlier, and it's time for last summer's shipment.
”大东鞋业很大程度上兼备了这三个销售渠道。
The Dadong shoe industry largely combines these three sales channels.
该企业高管认为，他们企业规模大，在物流、原材料供应商等方面有大优势，他们自己开不开工就是一个风向标。
Executives at the company believe their large companies, with big advantages in logistics, raw material suppliers and the like, are a weathervane if they don't start their own businesses.
“开工后做出产品如何销售，卖给谁，毕竟市场还没有释放。
"After all, the market has not yet released how and to whom products are sold.
但是后面开工会更难，员工都面临生活压力，企业面临用工荒问题。
But it will be harder to start later, with employees under stress and companies facing labor shortages.
”该高管坦言，企业也是骑虎难下。
Companies, the executives concede, are also in trouble.
该高管分管的工厂，目前还没有一个员工回来，他似乎也并没有那么着急。
The executive's factory, which has yet to see a single employee back, doesn't seem to be in such a hurry.
在他看来，在经济下行压力下，企业可以通过规模效应向市场让利，市场好时十双鞋赚100元钱，市场不好时可以100双鞋赚100元。
In his view, under economic pressure, enterprises can make profits from the market through economies of scale, 10 pairs of shoes when the market is good, and 100 pairs of shoes when the market is bad.
“没法预测，只能走一步看一步。
"It's not predictable, just a step at a time.
”有关人士预测，温州用工缺口在十万以上。
"Wenzhou has a job shortage of more than 100,000 people, say people.
但对于企业来说，压在他们身上的则是供应商的货款、员工的工资、厂房租金以及生产采购，反过来疫情之下，应收货款能不能按时回收，合同是否按时履行，订单会不会取消。
But for companies, it is suppliers' payments, employees' wages, factory rents and production purchases that weigh on them. In turn, the epidemic is such that accounts receivable can be collected on time, contracts fulfilled on time, and orders cancelled.
这些温州企业接受《等深线》记者采访时表示，用工缺口应该指的是温州企业真正全面复产的那一天，只是这些企业要努力“活”到那一天才行。
In an interview with Bathymetric Line, the Wenzhou enterprises said the shortfall should refer to the day when Wenzhou enterprises can fully resume production, but only if they try to "live" to that day.
截至发稿，浙江已连续4天无新增病例，官方数据称，规上工业企业复工率已达98.6%。
By the time of writing, Zhejiang had had no new cases for four days in a row, and official figures said 98.6 per cent of industrial enterprises had been required to resume work.
据《温州日报》2月24日报道，温州已设立2亿元稳岗专项资金，截至2月23日，温州开复工规上企业5165家，开复工率91.3%，到位复工人员已达22.45万人。
As of February 23, Wenzhou had opened 5,165 enterprises with a restart rate of 91.3 percent, bringing the total number of workers back to work to 224,500.
2月26日，温州市政府转发《温州日报》报道称：“我市5657家规上工业企业100%复工”。
On February 26, the Wenzhou government forwarded the Wenzhou Daily report that "100% of the 5657 industrial enterprises in our city have returned to work."
（编辑: 郝成校对:翟军）推荐阅读点击大图|年营收8500亿元，同谷歌、苹果形成三足鼎立之势？华为引爆相关产业链点击大图|韩国能取缔毒王“新天地”吗？。
(Edit: Hao Cheng proofread by Zhai Jun) Can South Korea clamp down on the drug king's "new world" with annual revenues of 850 billion yuan, a trend that has reached a tripod with Google and Apple?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
难念的经：温州复工克难记。
Difficult to read: Wenzhou resumption of work hard to remember.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "难念的经：温州复工克难记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '年营收8500亿元，同谷歌、苹果形成三足鼎立之势？华为引爆相关产业链',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '韩国能取缔毒王“新天地”吗？',。
Can South Korea scrap its drug king? & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
