生活正在起变化。
Life is changing.
生活正在起变化。
Life is changing.
迟宇宙。
Late universe.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：迟宇宙来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）2020年1月23日上午10点，武汉通往外界的大门“砰”地一声，被锁上了。
Author: Late Cosmic Source: ID: biz-leaders, Wuhan January 23, 2020 at 10 a.m., Wuhan to the outside world of the door "bang", was locked.
封城之前，大约有500万人离开了武汉，新型冠状病毒寄宿在一些人身上，被他们带到了中国的各个角落；留在武汉的九百来万人，在病毒的肆虐中艰难而顽强地活着，等待大门“砰”地一声被打开的那刻。
About five million people left Wuhan before the city was sealed off, and the new coronavirus boarded with some people and taken to all corners of China. The nine million people who remained in Wuhan survived the virus so hard and tenaciously that they waited for the door to slam open.
盒马鲜生配送部小哥张赛不能离开武汉。
Box horse fresh distribution of the younger brother Zhang Xai can not leave Wuhan.
“我的两个孩子还小，负担很重，我不可能服从我的理性，我也一样上班了。
"My two children are young and burdened, and I cannot obey my reason. I am at work, too.
”他说，“我本来就没有计划回老家，因为负担实在有点重，我想靠过年多挣一点。
"I didn't plan to go back to my hometown because the burden was a bit heavy and I wanted to make a little more from the Spring Festival," he said.
”他也害怕。
He was afraid too.
他安慰自己：“怕是对的，怕才会提高意识，才会珍惜生命，生活还是要继续，班还是要上的。
He consoled himself by saying, "I'm afraid I'm right, I'm afraid I'll raise my consciousness, I'll cherish my life.
”也正是从那天开始，张赛成为了这座城市中罕见的自由穿梭者。
It was also from that day that Zhang became one of the city's rare free riders.
他身上蓝色的盒马工装是他自由穿梭的“通行证”。
His blue box of horse-and-pony overalls was his "pass" to travel freely.
这些“通行证”除了盒马蓝，还有饿了么蓝、京东红和顺丰的红黑相间。
These "pass" in addition to a box of horse blue, there are hungry blue, Jingdong red and Shunfeng red and black.
一个动人的故事。
A touching story.
一个普通人在武汉艰难挣扎、恪尽职守的故事。
The story of an ordinary man struggling and doing his duty in Wuhan.
人们为他的故事心碎，也感动地掉眼泪。
People were heartbroken by his story and moved to tears.
他们与那些前往武汉支援的医护人员、冒险运送物资的货运司机一起，被称为“逆行者”。
They are known as the "Reverse Walker" along with the medical staff who travel to Wuhan to support the freight drivers who take risks in transporting goods.
张赛的故事在二十多天后被《纽约时报》发现了。
Zhang Sai's story was discovered by the New York Times more than 20 days later.
2月20日的《纽约时报》说，《在被封锁的武汉，他运送的还有希望》。
The February 20 issue of The New York Times said, "In the blockaded Wuhan, he delivered hope."
“对于许多中国人来说，像张赛这样的送货骑手是他们与外界唯一的联系。
"For many Chinese, delivery riders like Zhang Sai are their only contact with the outside world.
这些骑手曾经是中国几乎每个城市的街道上无处不见却被人忽视的存在，现在被当作英雄来赞颂。
These horsemen, once invisible but invisible on the streets of almost every Chinese city, are now celebrated as heroes.
”“但是人们还是得吃饭——这就是为什么张赛和大批送货骑手每天都在街上忙碌的原因。
"" But people still have to eat -- that's why Zhang Xie and a lot of delivery riders are busy on the streets every day.
随着武汉和中国其他地区的人们困守家中，他们已经变成了这个国家的重要动脉，让新鲜的肉、蔬菜和其他物资流向需要的人。
With people stranded in Wuhan and other parts of China, they have become an important artery in the country, allowing fresh meat, vegetables and other supplies to flow to those in need.
”曾经喜欢拥挤在菜市场、执著于讨价还价、习惯于熙熙攘攘的武汉人、湖北人和中国人，正因对病毒的恐惧而困守家中。
Wuhan people, Hubei people and Chinese, who used to be huddled in the Halles, haggling and used to the hustle and bustle of the city, were stuck in their homes for fear of the virus.
他们经由张赛们打通的“这个国家的重要动脉”，开始改变自己生活形态。
They began to change their lives through the "vital arteries of the country" opened by Zhang Saimen.
我们的生活，不管是主动还是被迫，也不管是否情愿，终究是起了变化。
Our lives, whether active or forced, whether desired or not, have changed.
事情正在起变化在浙江杭州，张赛所服务的那家公司，以及它的母公司、兄弟公司和盟友们，正在筹划一次新的尝试。
Things are changing in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, and the company Mr. Zhang serves, along with its parent company, sister companies and allies, is planning a new attempt.
2月21日，阿里巴巴集团旗下饿了么、盒马、菜鸟丹鸟物流等多部门联合四通一达在杭州开通“城市生活绿色通道”，为全市居民生活物资配送开辟专门通道。
February 21, Alibaba Group's hungry, box horse, bird logistics and other multi-sectoral joint four-way in Hangzhou "urban life green passageway," for residents of the city to open a special passageway.
饿了么、盒马、菜鸟丹鸟物流，以及四通一达等快递公司已统一领到“绿色通道”标识。
Hungry, box horse, rookie Dan bird logistics, as well as four courier companies have been unified to "green channel" logo.
配送小哥们将标识贴在配送车辆和工作服上，通行将更方便。
The distribution of small friends will be affixed to the distribution of vehicles and work clothes, traffic will be more convenient.
这是阿里巴巴在疫情期间进行的又一次探索。
This is Alibaba during the outbreak of another exploration.
阿里巴巴毫无疑问是观察当下中国人生活形态改变的最好标本，不止因为阿里在疫情期间做了很多探索，更重要的是，阿里作为一个“生态系统”，拥有比美团、京东、顺丰更丰富的生态链。
Ali Baba is undoubtedly the best specimen to observe the changing life patterns of the Chinese people today, not only because Ali has done a lot of exploration during the epidemic, but more importantly because Ali, as an "ecosystem," has richer ecological chains than the US Mission, Jingdong and Shunfeng.
我们正在改变的生活形态，在这个生态链的节点上被记录、被沉淀、被数据化了。
The patterns of life we are changing are recorded, precipitated, and digitized at the nodes of this ecological chain.
2月4日，饿了么宣布联合优鲜菜场、菜文基等生鲜商户，重点升级保障全国38个城市的“手机菜篮子”，通过6万家门店，实现蔬菜水果、肉禽水产的线上一站式购买与送货上门。
On February 4, hungry announced the United Youcai fresh vegetable farm, vegetable dishes and other fresh business, focus on upgrading to guarantee the 38 cities of the country's "mobile basket," through 60,000 stores, vegetables, fruits, poultry and aquatic products on line one-stop purchase and delivery.
家住武汉市江岸区的佳佳从2月5日起就买不到菜了，随着家里的米面粮油日渐捉襟见肘，她不得不戴上口罩和护目镜，穿上透明雨衣，只身前往附近的超市。
Jia Jia, who lives on the river bank in Wuhan, has been unable to buy food since February 5. As her rice flour and oil are running out of money, she has to wear masks and goggles, put on a raincoat and go to a nearby supermarket alone.
“我就是想喝口酸奶，吃点新鲜蔬菜而已。
"I just want a cup of yogurt and some fresh vegetables.
”佳佳告诉记者，然而当她一大早赶到超市仍然看到大排长龙的队伍时，最终还是放弃了线下采购的念头。
However, when she arrived in the supermarket early in the morning and still saw a long line of people, she finally gave up the idea of offline shopping.
由于新冠肺炎疫情的肆虐，今年春节变成了一场“全民宅家”的寂静长假；随着居家隔离的时间线被渐渐拉长，不少民众家里囤的菜也空了，“超市排队买菜”就这样揭开了“买菜难”的冰山一角。
The Spring Festival is turning into a long, quiet holiday for homeowners as the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic rages. As the time limit for family separation draws to a head and the family hoard empties, queues for groceries in supermarkets are beginning to unlock the tip of the iceberg.
对小晨和佳佳来说，她们的PlanB就是转战线上“抢菜”；其时，京东到家、盒马鲜生、叮咚买菜等生鲜电商迎来了一场始料未及的需求暴增，“下载多个买菜APP，凌晨起床抢菜”成为屡见不鲜的“魔幻现实”。
For Xiaochen and Jia Jia, their PlanB is a "grab food" on the front line; at that time, Beijing East home, box horse fresh, Dingdong purchase and other fresh electric business ushered in an unexpected surge in demand, "download multiple APPs, wake up in the early morning" become a common "magic reality.
（“启阳路4号”，《生鲜电商战“疫”：供应链迎来大考“共享员工”意外走红》）这场突如其来、不知何日最终结束的新冠状病毒疫情已经困扰了我们许久，它改变了我们的生活，也改变了很多人和很多企业的命运。
The new coronavirus epidemic, which has come to an abrupt and inexplicable end, has long plagued our lives and transformed the lives of many people and businesses.
“火线上线”成为当下最普遍的现象。
"On-line" has become the most common phenomenon.
不只被电子商务培育起的“70后”至“00后”们开始通过互联网改造生活，为疫情所迫，很多“60后”、“50后”，甚至“40后”的老人，也开始向线上“移民”，并形成线上挑选支付线下即时配送的生活习惯；疫情期间，商超不再是他们的唯一选择，在很多管控严格的地方，甚至不再是他们的选择。
Not only did e-commerce nurture "70" to "00 after" people began to transform their lives through the Internet, driven by the epidemic, many "60 years later," "50 years later," and even "40 years later" began to "migrate" online and develop the habit of instant distribution offline; during the epidemic, Shang Chao was no longer their only option, or even their choice, in many highly regulated places.
疫情期间，多数人开始向线上“移民”需求侧发生改变，一定会伴随着供给侧的改变。
During the epidemic, most people began to shift to the demand side of online "migration," which was bound to be accompanied by supply-side changes.
在商户端，越来越多平素不见踪影的商户出现在了互联网上。
At the end of the business, more and more unseen merchants appear on the Internet.
1月27日开始，受疫情扩散影响，全聚德宣布旗下门店大面积“暂停营业”；2月8日，全聚德宣称，“全聚德、丰泽园、四川饭店老字号美食外卖已陆续恢复上线。
Quanjude said on Feb. 8 that "Quanjude, Fengze Garden and Sichuan Hotels have been reinstated after the spread of the epidemic.
”不只是全聚德需要“上线”自救，鹅夫人、王品牛排、电台巷火锅、麦吉奶茶、哥老官们都开始了“云营业”。
Quanjude isn't the only one who needs to "go online" to save herself. Mrs. Goose, Wang Steak, Radio Alley Hotpot, McGill Milk Tea and the elder brothers are all starting to "Cloud Business."
饿了么数据显示，截至2月25日，已有超过15万家门店新上线外卖功能。
Are you hungry By February 25, more than 150,000 stores had taken out new online offerings, according to the data.
从街边小店到五星级酒店，从全聚德、鹅夫人到轻奢下午茶，甚至是书店电影院，在疫情期间批量上线，“全商上线”开始成为一种可能。
From boutiques to five-star hotels, from Quanjude and Lady Goose to luxury afternoon tea and even bookstore cinemas, wholesale going live during the epidemic has become a possibility.
在阿里巴巴内部，这种改变始自1月21日。
Inside Alibaba, the change began on January 21.
钟南山院士在那天说，新冠病毒肺炎有“人传人现象”，疫情真正爆发了。
Zhong Nan Shan academician said on that day, new crown virus pneumonia has "person-to-person phenomenon", the outbreak really broke out.
饿了么发布了“一起守望相助”的声明，接着又在武汉封城那天喊出了“我们一直在”。
Hungry to publish a "mutual help together" statement, and then in Wuhan on the day of the closure of the shouting "We have always been."
本地生活平台各个角落的员工，特别是奔走在武汉空荡荡街道上的骑手们，共同向武汉做出了承诺——“尽最大努力为市民提供坚实、可靠的服务”。
Employees from every corner of the local living platform, especially the riders on the empty streets of Wuhan, made a commitment to Wuhan to "do their utmost to provide solid and reliable service to the public."
“一起守望相助”和“我们一直在”的承诺在1月30日铺向了全国。
The promise of "keeping watch together" and "we've been here" was rolled out across the country on January 30th.
那天《给所有商家伙伴的一封信》从各个渠道被推出，公布包括减免佣金、极速上线和金融支持在内的“五个决定”，全力支持所有商家伙伴，共渡难关。
A "Letter to All Business Partners" was launched that day from all sources, announcing the "Five Decisions," including commission rebates, top speed online and financial support, and giving full support to all business partners to tide them over.
全聚德、鹅夫人们都是“极速上线”的。
Quanjude and Madame Goose are "extremely fast on the line."
这场由疫情造成的用户“火线上线”与商家“极速上线”，最终在一直力推数字化的本地生活平台上呈现出了三种态势——一是生鲜、商超为代表的“菜篮子”产生了前所未有的关注度。
This outbreak caused by the user "on-line" and business "extremely fast online," finally in the local life platform has been pushing digital presented three trends - one is fresh, Shang Chao as the representative of the "vegetable basket" generated unprecedented attention.
“启阳路4号”的文章中称，整个春节期间，京东到家的销售额较去年同比增长了510%；盒马鲜生的网上订单数量较去年同期激增了220%；每日优鲜平台在除夕到初四的实收交易额较去年同期增长321%；叮咚买菜的除夕订单也较上月涨超300%。
Sales at home increased 510 percent year-on-year during the Spring Festival, while orders for fresh boxed horses jumped 220 percent from the same period last year, 321 percent more than the same period last year, and 300 percent more than last month, the article said.
“另据中商产业研究院提供的数据显示，2019年国内生鲜电商行业交易规模约为3223亿元，预计2020年市场交易总额将突破4600亿元。
"According to figures provided by the China Institute of Commerce and Industry, the domestic live electricity business sector is estimated to be worth 322.23 billion yuan in 2019, with the total volume of transactions expected to exceed 460 billion yuan in 2020.
”这是疫情造就的新机会。
This is a new opportunity created by the epidemic.
网上“菜篮子”解决了用户的“痛点”，使他们不必在菜市场中拥挤、在超市中排队，减少了感染的风险；同样它也解决了商户的“痛点”，使其能够在不能正常营业的疫情管控期，依旧可以“生产自救”，甚至开辟出新的销售渠道与商业模式。
An online "basket" solves a user's "pain point," relieving them of the risk of infection by crowding in the Halles and queuing in supermarkets; it also resolves the "pain point" for merchants, allowing them to "save themselves" and even develop new distribution channels and business models during periods of non-functioning disease control.
二是良品铺子等传统电商商户开始或者加快登陆本地生活平台，形成“电商+本地生活”的“双路模式”，这种模式本质上是打通“新零售”与“新服务”的“双新模式”。
Second, merchants of good quality goods and other traditional electric merchants began or accelerated their landing on local living platforms, forming a "two-way model" of "electronic commerce + local life," essentially a "two-way model" of "new retail" and "new services."
对于传统电商品牌来说，这种“双新模式”或许会成为其未来“满血复活”的必杀技。
For traditional electric brands, this "double new model" may become its future "blood resurrection" must kill.
三是言几又书店、万达、大悦城甚至是中石油的昆仑便利店们纷纷出现在了本地生活平台上。
Third, a few bookstores, Wanda, Big Yue City and even Petro Kunlun convenience stores have appeared on the local living platform.
这些书店与商超品牌，素来重视线下体验，通常自营线上业务，与本地生活平台向来“井水不犯河水”。
These bookstores and commercial super-brand, has always attached importance to online experience, usually proprietary business, and the local living platform has always been "well water."
它们的出现，使本地生活的形态变得更加复杂多样。
Their emergence has added to the complexity and diversity of life in the region.
其实阿里的本地生活平台一直在尝试进行多重混合的整合。
In fact, Ali's local living platform has been trying to integrate multiple combinations.
作为外卖平台的饿了么，此前曾多次与服装品牌进行跨界，稍早前还与PEACEBIRD联名推出新款服装。
As a take-out platform hungry, and clothing brands have been cross-border, and earlier with PEACEBIRD jointly launched a new clothing.
分析普遍认为这是双方打破自身边界、扩展品牌辐射面的举动，但饿了么疫情期间的变化，大量“非相关”商户的入驻，都使人们相信，多重混合模式下，一切皆有可能。
The analysis is widely seen as a move by both sides to break their borders and expand the brand's radiant face, but the changes during the outbreak and the arrival of a large number of "unrelated" merchants have led to the belief that anything is possible in a multi-hybrid model.
生活会大爆炸吗？2月19日，随着时间的推移，复工又成为了疫情期的新需求。
Will life explode? February 19, with the passage of time, the resumption of work has become the new needs of the epidemic period.
口碑饿了么宣布推出开工“十件套”助力本地生活行业复苏，其中包括：全国符合条件的口碑商户，佣金减免将进一步延长至2020 年 3 月 31 日、 10万家门店新上线外卖功能、多位明星和淘宝主播零佣金为商户公益带货，平台提供免费流量支持、对接复工企业订餐需求。
Among other things, the commission will be extended until March 31, 2020, with 100,000 new online take-out functions, zero commission for many stars and Taobao anchors, and free flow support for business enterprises to order meals.
此外，口碑卡券还将支持到店自提，提供无接触安心送、提供 4000 门免费线上课程，从卫生防疫到政策解读供商户实时学习。
In addition, word-of-mouth coupons will support store-to-store self-delivery, offering 4,000 free online courses, from hygiene and prophylaxis to policy interpretation for real-time business learning.
阿里巴巴集团合伙人、阿里本地生活服务公司总裁王磊说：“我们一直在努力……我们做这个决定的时候就准备好与大家长期坚守共同努力，商家的生命线就是我们平台的生命线。
Wang Lei, Alibaba's partner and president of Ali Local Life Services, said: "We've been working hard... we've made this decision ready to work with you for a long time, and the lifeline of the business is the lifeline of our platform.
”阿里本地生活平台的一系列动作，加之整个阿里巴巴数字经济体在抗疫期间在物资筹措、物流保障、资金捐助、技术支持诸方面的付出，更兼外卖小哥们恪尽职守，甘冒风险将生活物资准时送达，使其赢得了来自商户与用户的双重口碑。
The actions of Ali's local living platform, combined with the efforts of the entire Alibaba digital economy in terms of financing, logistical support, financial contributions and technical support during the fight against the epidemic, have earned him a reputation as both a merchant and a user for his diligence in delivering goods on time.
很多人因为它的这些举措而褒奖其“德行”，将之作为“好公司”、“社会企业”的典范。
Many praised it for its actions as a model for "good companies" and "social enterprises."
放诸阿里身上，这样的评价与褒奖固然没错，也符合其“让天下没有难做的生意”的初心，但在我看来，其背后的商业逻辑才是真正值得探讨的。
That is true of Mr Ali's praise, and of his "business-as-usual" approach, but it seems to me that the business logic behind it is really worth exploring.
我们知道，阿里本地生活是一个服务平台，其本质是一个生态系统的设计师与管理员。
We know that Ali's native life is a service platform that is essentially an ecosystem designer and administrator.
商家也好，顾客也好，为商家与顾客服务的骑手也好，都是生态系统中不可或缺的一部分，一荣俱荣，一损俱损。
Businesses, customers, and riders serving businesses and customers are all an integral part of the ecosystem, thriving and losing.
疫情肆虐之时，是线下的商家最就艰难的时刻，此时帮商家，本质上也是帮自己；顾客们封闭家中，此时服务好他们，就是占领用户心智、培养用户忠诚度的最好时刻；骑手游走在街巷中，他们是最好的企业品牌大使，也成为最具凝聚力的企业文化建设者。
Helping businesses is essentially helping themselves when the epidemic is raging; closing homes and serving them is the best time to capture a user's mind and build loyalty; riders are the best corporate brand ambassadors and the most cohesive builders of corporate culture.
从阿里巴巴的历史与产品来看，阿里的逻辑是解决最需要解决的商业社会难题（也是其自身“痛点”）。
Given Alibaba's history and products, Ali's logic is the solution to the most pressing business-social problems (and its own "pain point").
它相信解决了社会难题，就是解决了商业空间，自己一定可以得到足够的商业回报。
It believes that the solution to the social problem is to solve the business space, they will be able to get enough commercial returns.
最初的1688（B2B业务）如此，支付宝如此，菜鸟如此，阿里云如此，如今的阿里本地生活同样如此。
This was the case with the original 1688 (B2B business), paypal, rookie, Ali cloud, and now Ali's native life.
科技、商业与社会发展融合到一起，将企业的动能与社会的势能融合到一起，它便成功了。
Science and technology, business and social development are integrated together, the kinetic energy of the enterprise and the potential energy of society, it is successful.
（“商业人物”，《它将改变中国》）依照阿里巴巴一直以来的商业逻辑，阿里本地生活其实正走在它一直在走的那条路上，并没有做更多、更出挑的事，只是在新冠疫情的背景板之下，别人停下或者放缓了脚步，而它还在坚持着往前走而已。
According to Alibaba's long-standing business logic, Ali's local life is actually on the same path it has been taking, doing nothing more, only pausing or slowing down under the backdrop of the new crown, while it keeps moving forward.
在本地生活平台上发生的这些变化，很容易使人们想起17年前。
These changes on the local living platform are easily reminiscent of 17 years ago.
那场“非典”疫情，最终倒逼实体商品选择了“上线”。
That "SARS" epidemic, finally forced the real goods to choose the "on-line."
17年后，这场突如其来的新疫情，会不会造就新的服务商品“上线”？用户端的上线代表的是需求，是习惯。
Seventeen years from now, will this sudden new epidemic "go live" with a new service product? The top line on the user side represents demand and habit.
对于新出现的大量70前用户来说，这种习惯最终能否沉淀为心智的改变，是短期需求能否变成长期需求的关键。
For the large number of new 70 former users, whether this habit eventually settles into mental change is crucial to whether short-term demand translates into long-term demand.
这是很难的。
It is very difficult.
我们都知道，“上线”对于他们中的绝大多数人来说是被迫的，是疫情管控期的无奈之举，而因线上动作迟缓而在各种“抢菜”中的空手而归，又会加深他们的挫败感。
We all know that going online is a compulsion for most of them, a necessity in a period of epidemic control, and that a slow start on the line can deepen their frustration by returning empty-handed among the various "grabs."
至为关键的是，线下购物、逛菜市场、超市排队，本身就是他们生活的一部分，是他们重要的“社交”。
Crucially, shopping offline, going to the Halles, and queuing up at the supermarket are part of their lives and their important "socializing."
生活压缩在线上空间，加上百无聊赖，一定会使他们的生活变得更逼仄。
Living compressed online space, coupled with a sense of helplessness, is bound to make their lives cramped.
他们需要参与感与成就感，如果不能同步解决这些需求，他们将很难成为“本地生活”中的常客。
They need to feel engaged and fulfilled, and if they don't address these needs simultaneously, it's hard to be a regular part of "local life."
网上购物虽方便，但疫情结束后去商场吃顿火锅是很多人的愿望同样的难题也会出现在低线城市。
Online shopping is convenient, but going to the mall for a hot pot after the epidemic is the same thing that many people want in low-end cities.
我们知道，在大城市中，人们已经习惯了本地生活平台的各种服务，而本地生活的影响与覆盖范围也可以保障我们从容不迫的生活。
We know that in large cities, people are used to the services of local living platforms, and the influence and coverage of local life can guarantee us a leisurely life.
当本地生活“下沉”到低线城市，甚至“下沉”到了城镇之后，这种影响与覆盖是否可以满足人们的普遍需求？毕竟生活不不止米和菜，不止油盐酱醋，还有咖啡和奶茶，还有音乐与啤酒。
When local life "sinks" into low-line cities and even "sinks" into towns and cities, will the impact and coverage meet the general demand for more than rice and vegetables, not just soy and soy sauce, but coffee and milk tea, as well as music and beer.
这就是生活。
This is life.
如果你的需求得不到满足，那么“生活”就不会“爆炸”，它只能慢慢地蓄积能量，等待量变到质变的那天。
If your needs aren't being met, then Life won't explode. It will just slowly accumulate energy, waiting for the quantity to change to a qualitatively new day.
低线城市用户在当地互联网生活平台上所面临的选项并不算多，他们的需求同样“多样化”，同样很难得到普遍满足。
Low-line urban users face few options on local Internet life platforms, and their needs are equally "diverse" and hard to satisfy universally.
让他们当中的年轻人形成新的消费习惯并不难，难的是他们的粘度。
It is not difficult to get young people to develop new spending habits, but the problem is their viscosity.
如果不能为他们提供丰富的“生活”，就不会赢得他们的“忠诚”；要他们“忠诚”也不难，想办法满足他们即可。
If they are not provided with a rich "life," they will not win their "loyalty"; it is not difficult to ask them to "loyalty," to find ways to meet them.
至于传统的商超，很难想象，一旦疫情结束，人们重新回到熙熙攘攘当中，他们是否还会继续“多重混合”。
As for the traditional mercantile approach, it is hard to imagine whether people will continue to "multiply" once the epidemic is over and people return to the hustle and bustle.
“混合”是为了利益，当他们从“不混”中可以攫取更多、性价比更高的利益时，“多重混合”就变得可有可无了。
"Mixing" is for profit, and "multiple mixing" becomes dispensable when they can extract more and better value for money from "muddle-through."
疫情使生鲜电商成为了一门“好生意”，是因为突然出现的消费场景给这个行业吃了“兴奋剂”。
The outbreak has turned live-TV into a "good business" because of the sudden appearance of the consumption scene to the industry "doping."
这是一个偶然造就的场景，期望这个消费场景变成常态并不现实，将被催熟的消费场景夯实为理性场景，让商户与用户心智回归理性，或许才是本地生活的最好选择。
This is a fortuitous scene, it is not realistic to expect this consumption scene to become normal. It is perhaps the best choice for local life to ramp up the mature consumption scene into a rational scene and return the minds of merchants and users to reason.
手机生活服务页面上，大都开通了生鲜配送功能新冠疫情当中，受创最大的是餐饮业。
On the mobile phone life service page, most opened the fresh distribution function of the new crown epidemic, the biggest injury is the catering industry.
规模大一些的西贝、眉州东坡、老乡鸡，规模更小的小食店，几乎都在疫情覆巢之下，担心是否能够完卵重生。
Larger West Bay, the eastern slope of Mei Zhou, Laoxiang chicken, smaller restaurants, almost all under the epidemic, worried about whether the eggs can be reborn.
阿里巴巴的“拯救者”角色扮演得很不赖。
Alibaba's "savior" role plays well.
自2月3日，盒马联合云海肴、西贝、探鱼、青年餐厅等餐饮品牌达成“共享员工”的合作。
Since February 3, the box horse united Yun Hai, Xibei, fish, youth restaurant and other catering brands to reach "shared staff" cooperation.
2月6日，阿里本地生活推出就业共享平台，招募万名餐饮员工临时送外卖。
On February 6, Ali's local life launched a job-sharing platform to recruit 10, 000 catering staff to deliver food temporarily.
然而这终究只能是寒冬中的相互取暖。
However, this can only be in the cold winter mutual heating.
春暖花开时，人们又会拥抱道别，带着依依惜别的深情，开始各自的生活。
When spring blossoms, people will hug goodbye, with the affectionate farewell, start their respective lives.
这就是生活，用户如此，商户也如此。
This is life, the user is so, so is the merchant.
如果“救助式自救”或“自救式救助”不能变成一个用户、商户、平台、配送等多方充满参与感的生态，那么它只能成为一个短期场景。
If "rescue-type self-help" or "self-help" can not become a user, merchant, platform, distribution and other multi-participatory ecology, then it can only become a short-term scenario.
疫情结束了，人们会很怀念它。
The epidemic is over, and people will miss it.
生活如何大爆炸毫无疑问，人们需要更好更丰富的生活。
There is no doubt that people need a better and richer life.
一个国家发不发达，也首先是人民群众的物质生活能否得到满足、保障和提升，“人民日益增长的美好生活需要和不平衡不充分的发展之间的矛盾”能否得到解决。
Whether a country's underdevelopment, and above all the people's material life, can be satisfied, safeguarded and enhanced, and "the contradiction between the growing needs of the people for a better life and the unbalanced and inadequate development" can be resolved.
我们身边已经出现了家中从未开过火的“外卖一代”。
We already have a "take-out generation" around us that has never been overdone.
这样的生活方式，没有什么不好，如果外卖品质够好，也能解决好环保问题，还能提升生活品质，间接提供就业机会，那它就是一种好的生活方式。
There is nothing bad about this lifestyle, which is a good way to live if it is of good quality, can solve environmental problems, improve the quality of life and indirectly provide jobs.
所以讨论本地生活拥有多美好的未来、多大的公共价值与商业空间，是一件毫无意义的事。
So it makes no sense to talk about how good a future local life is, how much public value and commercial space it is.
它是刚需、是必须，是我们所期待拥有的。
It is just what is needed, it is necessary, it is what we expect to have.
它只是需要变得更好，更丰富、更便捷、提供更多服务与价值。
It just needs to be better, richer, more accessible, more service and more value.
德鲁克在《创新与企业家精神》中说，企业经济行为的最终目的，也是企业战略的共同点，就是“它们创造了客户”。
In Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Drucker argues that the ultimate goal of corporate economic behavior, and the common denominator of corporate strategy, is that "they create customers."
具体而言，就是通过创造客户功效、定价、适应客户的社会和经济性状以及向客户提供代表真正价值的东西而实现“创造客户”的目的。
Specifically, it aims to "create customers" by creating customer effectiveness, pricing, adapting to their social and economic characteristics, and providing customers with something that represents real value.
当中，至为关键的是创造客户功效。
Among them, the key is to create customer effectiveness.
“在创造功效的战略中，价格通常无多大关系。
"In an efficiency strategy, prices usually don't matter much.
只有使顾客做能够满足其目的的事情，这个战略才会成功。
The strategy will succeed only if the customer is enabled to do what he or she wants.
它的成功在于它问了：对顾客来说，什么是真正的‘服务’，真正的‘功效’？”“创造功效使人们能够以自己的方式满足他们的需求和愿望。
Its success lies in the fact that it asks: What is real 'service', real 'efficacy' to the customer? Creativity enables people to meet their needs and desires in their own way.
”德鲁克说，“它提供了一种不同的功能。
"It provides a different function," says Drucker.
”德鲁克所说的“创造客户”的路径中，无论“创造功效”，还是“定价”，抑或“顾客的现实情况”与“提供顾客想要的价值”，一切都围绕着“新价值”，亦即能否为顾客提供相匹配的“价值”，决定了能否“创造客户”。
In what Drucker calls "customer creation," whether it's "creating effectiveness," "pricing," or "customer reality" and "giving customers what they want," everything revolves around "new values," that is, whether they provide customers with matching "value" and "create customers."
“定价”就是“新价值”——“它的价格应该反映消费者购买的真正‘价值’，而不是供应商的‘成本’。
"Pricing" is "new value" - "its price should reflect the true 'value' of the consumer's purchase, not the 'cost' of the supplier.
”“顾客的现实情况”就是“新价值”——“无论顾客买什么，都必须符合现实状况，否则产品对他们就毫无用处。
"Customer reality" is the "new value" - "whatever the customer buys, he or she must conform to reality or the product will be of no use to them.
”“提供顾客想要的价值”也是“新价值”——“它们使顾客得到了满足，给予顾客要卖的东西，换言之，它们让顾客觉得钱花得很值。
"Providing customers with the value they want" is also a "new value" - "they give customers satisfaction by giving them what they want to sell - in other words, they give customers a sense of value for money.
”确切无疑的是，依靠现有的一切，用户与商户都无法获得持久的“新价值”。
To be sure, with all that is available, neither users nor merchants can achieve lasting "new values."
疫情管控期提供了短暂的幻觉，而“新价值”需要提供的新服务场景、新模式与新体验，并未形成长期的基础设施。
Epidemic management periods provide temporary illusions, and "new values" require new service scenarios, new models, and new experiences, without creating a long-term infrastructure.
当疫情结束，生活回到常态的时候，人们需要的不是需求得到满足，而是平台能够提供出他们尚未意识到的或是尚未体验到的“需求”。
When the epidemic is over and life returns to normal, what people need is not the satisfaction of needs, but the ability of platforms to deliver "needs" that they are not aware of or yet experience.
这些“尚未”，才是包括口碑饿了么、美团这些生活平台所应该思考的。
These "not yet," is included in the word of mouth hungry, the United States tour these life platforms should think.
要创造新价值，要让本地生活真正爆炸起来，归根结底是价值观的问题。
To create new values, it is ultimately a matter of values to make local life truly explode.
疫情期间，穷极无聊的我看完了一部长剧，《外科风云》。
During the outbreak, I was so bored that I finished reading a play, Surgical Wind and Clouds.
结局部分，仁和医院耐药菌株疫情，与当下的新冠状病毒疫情何其相似。
In the end, the disease of the drug-resistant strain of Renhe Hospital is similar to that of the new coronavirus.
医护人员放下得失与成见，付出巨大牺牲，终于战胜了疫情。
Health-care workers put aside gains and losses and prejudice, paid a huge sacrifice, finally overcome the epidemic.
无论是原罪的一代学阀还是，良心发现的老院长，都在面对病患的时候回归了初心——那两个悬在两任院长墙上的大字。
In the face of the sick, the old prioress, both original and good-hearted, returned to his first heart, the two large letters suspended from the walls of two deans.
初心就是为什么——因何而出发，为何要坚持，以及要服务于谁。
The original heart is why - why to start, why to persist, and who to serve.
我们还是以阿里本地生活为例。
Consider, for example, Ali's native life.
其所倡导的“新服务”，内部定义是——“互联网时代，努力打造服务、产品、硬件体系的数智化，构建全球领先的数智化服务业新体系。
The "new services" it advocates are defined internally as "the age of the Internet, efforts to digitize services, products, and hardware systems, and to build a new, globally leading digital services system."
”它有五个关键词，除了“新服务”外，还有“新工具”、“新价值”、“新连接”、“新目标”……从外部来看，“新服务”就是数智化的服务连接。
It has five key words: "new services" plus "new tools," "new values," "new connections," "new goals..." From the outside, "new services" are digital service connections.
它也是“人货场的重构”。
It is also "the reconstruction of the human cargo yard."
它试图通过改变百万商户，最终能服务到每一个本地生活人群。
It is trying to reach out to everyone who lives there by changing millions of businesses.
（“商业人物”，《它将改变中国》）本地生活本质上是服务服务业的平台，它的初心只能也必须是“服务”。
Local life is essentially a platform for services, and its initial focus can and must be "service."
数智化连接是路径，是打通“生活大爆炸”的手段。
Digital connectivity is the path, the means to break through the Big Bang of Life.
如果说“中台”是本地生活服务业的神经中枢的话，数智化连接就是为现代服务业建立起一套高效的神经系统，以协调张赛们所代表的“这个国家重要的动脉”能够做出精确动作，确保“新服务”的实现。
If "Zhongtai" is the nerve center of the local domestic services industry, digital connectivity is the creation of an efficient nervous system for modern services that coordinates the "vital arteries of the country" represented by Zhang Saimen and ensures that "new services" are implemented.
我喜欢看到饿了么的、美团的、盒马的小哥每天在街巷中奔走，他们代表生活，真正的、鲜活的人的生活。
I like to see hungry, beautiful, box-horse little brother running in the streets every day, they represent life, real, live human life.
“你本可以看到更多晒太阳的人，下棋的人，买菜的人，没有任何事可以忙的人，”他在1月30日的那篇文章中写道。
"You could have seen more people in the sun, people playing chess, people buying food, people who have nothing to do," he wrote in his January 30 article.
“平时我嫌他们太吵，现在才发现，没有人嚷嚷的城市，没有意思。
"Usually I don't think they're loud enough, but now I realize that the city where no one is yelling is boring.
”（《纽约时报》，《在被封锁的武汉，他运送的还有希望》）没有人吵吵嚷嚷的城市没有意思，没有商户吵吵嚷嚷的生活平台也没有意思，没有人们一起吵吵嚷嚷的本地生活更没有意思。
(The New York Times, "In a blockaded Wuhan, he delivers hope") No one bothers the city, nor does the noisy living platform of merchants make sense, and the noisy local life of no one is more boring.
没有人生活在别处，人们只会生活在本地。
No one lives anywhere else, only locally.
未来的本地生活会是什么样子，谁也说不清楚。
No one can tell what life in the future will look like here.
时代一直在变，人们的需求也在不停变幻。
Times are changing and people's needs are constantly changing.
本地生活的未来，一定是美好的，因为人们需要它美好。
The future of local life must be good, for people need it to be good.
疫情中，很多人开始怀念起从前熙熙攘攘的街头，所代表的生活气息。
During the epidemic, many people began to miss the bustling streets of the past, representing the breath of life.
这也意味着线上服务除了解决人们的需求外，还需要构建新服务和新价值。
This also means that, in addition to addressing people's needs, online services need to build new services and values.
中国的电子商务也好、线上生活也好，都曾经历过流量搏杀的残酷。
China's e-commerce or online life, have experienced the brutal flow of fighting.
流量收割了用户的心智，补贴形成了用户的习惯，但羊毛薅掉后，人们还得重新培育草地，重新建设生态。
The flow harvests the minds of the users, and subsidies form user habits, but just as the wool is gathered up, people have to regenerate the grassland and rebuild the ecology.
人们需要更好的本地生活。
People need a better local life.
未来美好的城市生活，需要本地生活平台有“服务”的初心，有数智化的服务能力，有完整生态链的互通。
The future good city life, needs the local life platform to have the "service" the initial heart, has the intelligence service ability, has the complete ecological chain interchanges.
最关键的是，它要让用户成为用户，让商户成为商户，让参与者成为真正的生态建设者。
Crucially, it makes users users, merchants merchants, and participants real eco-builders.
德鲁克说：“一个创新是市场或社会的变革。
"An innovation is a change in the market or society," Drucker said.
它为用户带来更大的好处，为社会带来更多财富，以及更高的价值和满足。
It brings more benefits to the users, more wealth to the society, and higher value and satisfaction.
检验创新的标准往往是它为用户做了什么。
The test of innovation is often what it does for the user.
”至于是否以“新零售+新服务”的双轮模式驱动新消费，那是本地生活平台的事。
Whether or not to drive new consumption in a "new retail + new service" mode is a matter for local living platforms.
人们要的是“新消费”提供的美好，是“做了什么”。
What people want is "new consumption" to provide the good, is "do what."
*头图购买于视觉中国（关于未来本地生活，你有什么需求吗？欢迎留言讨论。
* Head Picture purchased in Visual China (What do you need about future local life? Welcome to message discussion.
）推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
生活正在起变化。
Life is changing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "生活正在起变化";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Life is changing & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我们的生活，不管是主动还是被迫，也不管是否情愿，终究是起了变化。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Our life, whether active or forced, whether consensual or not, has changed.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '它将改变中国',。
A: It will change China & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '上海何以撼山？',。
Why did Shanghai shake up its mountains?
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '新年献词｜所有人都在说同一种谎言',。
: Everyone has said the same thing at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
