他召集艾滋病人，给新冠患者捐药。
He summoned AIDS patients to give medicine to the new crown patients.
王大湿。
Wang Daishui.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“不管是艾滋病人还是新冠肺炎感染者，我们都希望更多的人能够活下来。
"Whether it's AIDS patients or new cases of pneumonia, we all want more people to survive.
—全民故事计划的第442个故事—一1月26日，国家卫健委发布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第三版），其中对于口服药物治疗一览中，增加了推荐使用“洛匹那韦利托那韦”，每次2粒，一日二次。
On January 26, 2004, the State Health Council announced a pneumonia programme for a new coronavirus infection (trial version 3), in which the recommended use of "Lopinavelitonavir" was added twice a day at a time for oral drug treatment.
有药，就意味着还有一线生机。
There is medicine, it means there is still a ray of life.
只是那拗口的药物名称对于一般人来说可能难以理解，但松鼠（微博：HIV松鼠哥）知道那是什么，他跟艾滋病打了八年交道了。
It's just that obscure drug name might be hard to understand for the average person, but squirrel (Weibo: HIV Squirrel) knows what it is. He's dealt with AIDS for eight years.
洛匹那韦/利托那韦有另一个更为好记的名字——克力芝。
Lopinavir / Ritonavir has another easier-to-remember name, Kaletra.
治疗艾滋病的药物有很多种，医生会根据每个人的身体情况搭建出一个组合，这被称之为“鸡尾酒疗法”。
There are many kinds of drugs to treat AIDS, and doctors make a combination based on each person's physical condition, known as cocktail therapy.
2012年，临近大学毕业前，松鼠拿到了自己的艾滋病确诊报告单。
In 2012, just before graduating from college, squirrels received their own AIDS diagnosis report cards.
那时的他觉得，“千万人的北京，一个能说话的人都没有”。
At that time, he felt, "tens of millions of people in Beijing, a person who can speak."
协和医院的大夫安抚他：“吃药吧，这和乙肝一样，只是一种慢性病。
The doctor at Concorde Hospital reassured him, "Take the medicine. Like hepatitis B, it's just a chronic disease.
”在经历短暂的沮丧期后，松鼠去了广州，成为写字楼里的一名白领，每天循规蹈矩地生活，每隔三个月到定点医院“打卡”——拿自己的药。
After a brief period of depression, the squirrel went to Guangzhou, where he became a white-collar worker in an office building.
药物治疗的效果很好，他的身体状况也与健康人无异。
The medication worked well and he was in the same physical condition as a healthy person.
从确诊到现在的八年时间里，有三年多，松鼠吃的都是克力芝。
For more than three years, squirrels have been eating Kaletra since their diagnosis.
作为免费药，克力芝也有自身的局限，每天要吃两次，一些人还会拉肚子。
As a free medicine, Kaletra also has its own limitations, to eat twice a day, some people will also have diarrhea.
“如果有条件，很多患者会选择自费药，副作用小。
"If conditions permit, many patients will choose to pay for their own drugs, the side effects are small.
”2017年，松鼠来到郑州定居，远离大城市，他可以有更多时间陪伴家人。
In 2017, squirrels moved to Zhengzhou and settled away from big cities, giving him more time to spend with his family.
但也有一些不便，譬如每次拿药都得排很长时间的队。
But there are also some inconveniences, such as having to wait in line for a long time to get the medicine.
并不是每个人都能腾出时间，有的可能出差或者别的原因，就错过了拿药的日子。
Not everyone can make time, some may travel or other reasons, missed the day to get the medicine.
这些药物是按照名额配给的，错失了就没有了，医院不会多给。
These drugs are rationed according to quota, missed is no longer available, the hospital will not give more.
松鼠渐渐发现，不止他一个人有类似的困扰，于是他在当年发起了一个互助平台，帮助感染者把闲置的药物拿出来，借给需要应急的人。
Slowly, squirrels discovered that he wasn't alone, so he launched a mutual aid platform to help infected people pull out unused drugs and lend them to those in need.
这些借药的人，既有忙于出差的白领，也有假期回家的学生，“这个群体是非常丰富的，各种各样的职业、年龄段和收入层次都有。
These borrowers, ranging from white-collar workers busy with business trips to students returning home from vacation, "are a very rich group, found in a wide variety of occupations, age groups and income groups.
”所谓“借药”的过程并不需要双方面对面，只需要通过小组成员在网上相互沟通，知道谁有多余的药物再用快递发过去。
The process doesn't require a face-to-face meeting between two people, just a small group of people communicating online to find out who has the extra drugs to send by express.
松鼠是这群人的核心，他脑子活，懂英文，又体贴人，在他的协助下，隔着天南地北的人都能在互助平台上借到药。
Squirrel is the core of this group, he is intelligent, understand English, and considerate, with his help, people across the world can borrow medicine in mutual aid platform.
如今，这个互助借药平台的成员已经遍布全国三十多个城市。
Today, the platform has members in more than 30 cities across the country.
1月23号，武汉封城那天，有一个身处武汉的艾滋病患者向他求助：“出不去了，能借药给我吗？”这是第一个求救信号。
On January 23, Wuhan, the day of the closure of an AIDS patient in Wuhan, he asked for help: "can not get out, can I borrow medicine?" This is the first distress signal.
收到消息后，松鼠把最后几份打包好的包裹交到快递员手上，稍微缓和了一下绷紧的神经。
After receiving the news, the squirrel handed the last few packages to the courier, easing the tension a little.
准备忙完这次，短暂地过一下春节。
Get ready for the trip and have a short Spring Festival.
当时有好几份发往武汉的快递，眼下就希望他们都能够收到。
There were several express deliveries to Wuhan at the time, and it is hoped that they would receive them now.
二克力芝是国内药厂给洛匹那韦/利托那韦片取的商品名称，作为蛋白酶抑制剂的一种，它的作用是降低蛋白酶的活性，从而抑制病毒在细胞内的复制，达到治疗疾病的目的。
Acrylic is a commercial name given to Lopinavir / Ritonavir tablets by domestic pharmaceutical companies. As a protease inhibitor, its function is to reduce the activity of protease, thus inhibiting the replication of the virus in cells, thus achieving the goal of curing the disease.
从2000年开始，洛匹那韦/利托那韦片被用于艾滋病抗病毒治疗。
Since 2000, Lopinavir / Ritonavir tablets have been used in HIV treatment.
其实在国家卫健委把克力芝列入治疗新冠肺炎的药物之前，松鼠和互助平台的成员在1月22号就得到了类似的消息。
Squirrels and members of the Mutual Aid Platform received similar information on January 22 before the NHS included Kaletra as a treatment for pneumonia.
在1月22号晚上11:39，北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发更新了一条微博。
At 11: 39 p.m. on January 22, Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, updated a microblog.
在抗疫第一线的他于21日被确诊感染新冠肺炎，凭着丰富的医学经验，他在隔离病房内进行自我治疗，吃的药就是克力芝。
In the front line of the fight against the disease was diagnosed on 21 New Crown Pneumonia, with rich medical experience, he was in the isolation ward for self-treatment, the medicine is Kaletra.
王广发医生的微博 |来自网络松鼠看到的第一反应，是很多人可能拿不到药。
Dr. Wang's first response, seen by Internet squirrels, is that many people may not have access to medicine.
除非是吃这个药的艾滋病感染者，不要说普通人，就连医护人员都不一定知道。
Unless you're an AIDS sufferer, don't say ordinary people, not even paramedics.
对于艾滋病患者，克力芝有成熟的替代品，而对于新冠肺炎患者，克力芝或许是可以救命的。
For AIDS patients, there is a mature alternative to Kaletra, and for patients with new crown pneumonia, Kaletra may be life-saving.
这种药在一般的医院和药店根本没有，流通性很差，绝大部分人都拿不到。
The drug is simply not available in general hospitals and pharmacies, and is so illiquid that most people cannot reach it.
松鼠向互助平台的成员提议：“我们可以把手里的闲置药捐送给有需要的人。
Squirrels have suggested to members of the Mutual Aid Platform: "We can donate our spare medicine to people in need.
”互助平台上的声音很多，意思就一个，“我们做！”松鼠说：“不管是艾滋病人还是新冠肺炎感染者，我们都希望更多的人能够活下来。
"There were a lot of voices on the platform, meaning," We do it! "Squirrel said." We want more people to survive, whether they are AIDS patients or new cases of pneumonia.
”一位给松鼠捐药的网友说：“我们这个群体一直不被理解和认同，但现在疫情当头，我们也应该为社会贡献一点力量。
"We're a group that hasn't been understood and recognized, but now that the epidemic is over, we should do something about it," said a netizen who donated medicine to the squirrel.
”为了让更多人能够拿到药，1月28日中午，松鼠在微博上发布动态，向全网的艾滋病感染者筹集闲置的药物，并无偿提供给新冠肺炎患者，条件是——患者必须提供医疗凭据、病例确诊报告或者处方。
To make medicine more widely available, squirrels posted on microblogs on January 28 at noon to raise unused drugs from people living with AIDS across the network and give them free of charge to patients with Newcastle pneumonia, provided they provide medical credentials, case diagnosis reports or prescriptions.
松鼠也不是没有考虑过这样做的风险，但药物本身是免费的，不存在仿冒的可能。
Squirrels have not considered the risk of doing so, but the drug itself is free, there is no possibility of imitation.
只是在捐赠过程中，互助平台里有熟悉法律的人提醒道：“我们无权捐献给医生，医生也无权把捐助的药品直接拿给患者。
Only during the donation process, people familiar with the law on the platform cautioned: "We have no right to donate them to doctors, nor do doctors have the right to give donated drugs directly to patients.
”最后经过大家讨论，互助平台的人决定直接把药物提供给患者，松鼠说：“我们查过，个人对个人的民间捐助是合法的。
Finally, after much discussion, the people on the platform decided to give the medicine directly to the patient. "We checked that private donations to individuals were legal," the squirrel said.
”三1月28日晚上8点30分左右，第一位新冠肺炎患者联系到松鼠。
At about 8: 30 pm on January 28, the first person with pneumonia in the new crown contacted the squirrel.
对方是武汉某三甲医院的一名医生。
The other is a doctor of a certain Three A hospital in Wuhan.
他发来了医学证明以及核酸检测结果。
He sent the medical certificate and the nucleic acid test results.
到了第二天，向松鼠登记的求助者已经超过了30位。
By the next day, more than 30 people had registered with squirrels.
“那个时候就开始忙了。
"It was a busy time.
” 松鼠把互助平台的志愿者组织起来，一部分负责审核，一部分负责药品，自己就做个中间人。
Squirrels organize volunteers on mutual aid platforms, one to audit, one to take charge of medicine, and one to act as a middleman.
第一批筹集到的克力芝 | 作者供图从1月29日开始，松鼠陆续收到从全国寄来的克力芝，有的一瓶，有的两瓶，最远的是一名台湾的艾滋病患者，一次性捐了五瓶。
From January 29 onwards, squirrels have received five bottles of Kaletra from all over the country, some bottles, some bottles and as many as one Taiwanese AIDS patient.
一个人要处理三十多个包裹，让松鼠几乎好几天没有时间睡觉。
One person had to deal with more than 30 packages, leaving squirrels almost without time to sleep for days.
要把收到的药物分装打包。
The drugs received should be packed separately.
他算过：“根据卫健委给的方案，一人份的量是14天，一天两次、一次两粒，国内原厂的克力芝一瓶可供两名新冠患者，印度版一瓶只可供一人。
He calculates: "According to the program given by the health care committee, the quantity of a person is 14 days, twice a day, two tablets at a time.
”分装打包好后，下一步就是发往武汉。
After packaging, the next step is to send it to Wuhan.
大部分快递都已停工，松鼠找到唯一还在营业的顺丰快递，对方一听是武汉就摆摆手：“现在运力不够了，都运救灾物资去了。
Most couriers have stopped work, squirrels found the only still open Shunfeng express, the other side is heard of Wuhan waved: "Now capacity is not enough, all to transport relief materials.
”“这就是救灾物资。
"" This is the relief material.
”松鼠跟对方说道。
"said the squirrel to his opponent.
最后他跟顺丰快递总部进行了沟通，对方同意把药物按照救灾物资的标准一次性发往武汉。
Finally, he and Shunfeng express headquarters to communicate, the other side agreed to the drug in accordance with the standards of relief materials sent to Wuhan.
此时的武汉，快递停止投递，最早23号寄出去的药品，收件人不得不去分理部自提。
At this time, Wuhan, express delivery stopped, the earliest 23 sent out of the drug, the recipient had to go to the division.
如何把药物送到新冠病人的手上，尤其是还在接受医学隔离的患者，这又是一个问题。
How to deliver drugs to patients in the new crown, especially those who are still in medical isolation, is another problem.
这时，有朋友向松鼠介绍了蜘蛛（微博ID:蜘蛛猴面包）。
At this time, a friend introduced the spider to the squirrel (Weibo ID: spider monkey bread).
蜘蛛热爱徒步，最远去过非洲，还会拍视频，武汉封城后，他戴着口罩，一边做志愿者，一边驾车拍摄“武汉封城日记”。
Spiders love hiking, travel as far as Africa, and make videos, Wuhan closed the city, wearing a mask, while serving as a volunteer, while driving "Wuhan Seal Diary."
朋友介绍他俩认识。
They were introduced by their friends.
松鼠直截了当地问对方：“能不能帮忙送药给新冠肺炎患者？”蜘蛛没有立即答应下来，“这是一件慎重的事，HIV病毒与新冠病毒不同，药物可以通用吗，这药物合法吗？”但第二天起床后，蜘蛛答应了松鼠，因为松鼠给他的名单上，有武汉三甲医院的医生，不止是这一名医生，在跟松鼠申请药物的名单上，医护人员达到四分之一。
The squirrel asked the other directlyCan the spider help deliver medicine to the Crowne Pneumonia? The spider did not immediately respond, "Is it a prudent thing that HIV is not like the new crown virus, is it legal?" But the next morning, the spider agreed to squirrels because squirrels gave him a list of doctors at Wuhan Sanjia Hospital.
2020年2月1日早晨，第一批八人份的药品寄到了蜘蛛位于武汉光谷的家中，他载着药从武昌出发，经过汉口，然后再转到汉阳。
On the morning of February 1, 2020, the first batch of eight drugs arrived at the spider's home in Guanggu, Wuhan. He set out from Wuchang with the medicine, passed through Hankou, and then transferred to Han Yang.
“八人中，有三位是一线的医护人员。
"Three of the eight are frontline medical staff.
”从第一批开始，汇集的药物陆续发放出去，松鼠说：“如果没有线上和线下志愿者的协助，仅靠他自己一个人的力量根本不可能办到。
Since the first batch of drugs was distributed, squirrels have said: "Without the help of volunteers online and offline, it would not have been possible to do it by himself.
尤其要感谢在武汉当地的志愿者。
Thanks in particular to the local volunteers in Wuhan.
”很快，松鼠手里的药物告罄，毕竟是艾滋病患者的闲置药物，不可能有太多的剩余，而向他申请药物的名单已经排到80多号，“得想办法弄到新的药。
"Soon, squirrels ran out of medicine. After all, it was a spare drug for AIDS patients. There couldn't be much left, and the list of people who applied to him was more than 80.
”松鼠把目光转向印度。
"The squirrel looked at India.
近十年来，印度治疗艾滋病的药物需求增长旺盛。
The demand for AIDS drugs in India has grown dramatically over the past decade.
辗转联系到印度的一家药厂，订购了300多盒克力芝，松鼠又在微博发帖：“现有一批来自印度的药物急需带回国内，谁能帮忙？”一群准备从印度回国的驴友们这个时候联系到松鼠，答应帮他带回来，但因为数量众多，只能先带回一批。
After tossing and contacting a pharmaceutical factory in India and ordering more than 300 boxes of Kaletra, the squirrel posted on Weibo: "There is an urgent need to bring home a batch of medicines from India, who can help?" A group of donkey friends returning from India contacted the squirrel and promised to bring him back.
只是前脚刚从印度回到国内，后脚的路就断了，疫情愈发严重，各国开始关闭直飞中国大陆城市的航班。
Just as the front foot had just returned from India, the road to the rear was broken, the outbreak became more serious, and countries began to close flights to Chinese cities.
松鼠不得不把目标锁定到当时仍在开放的香港。
Squirrels had to target Hong Kong, which was still open at the time.
2020年2月7日，第一批从印度运来的克力芝到达香港，麻烦紧跟着又来了，香港宣布从2月3号开始封关，对来往人员进行劝返，只保留必要的物资运输通道。
On February 7, 2020, the first shipment of Kaletra from India arrived in Hong Kong. Troubles followed, and Hong Kong announced that it would close its doors on February 3 to encourage people to return to Hong Kong, retaining only the necessary supply routes.
在这种情况下，是一家名为“希望小组”的公益组织帮助了松鼠，“他们也是给被感染的医护人员提供药物的”。
In this case, squirrels are helped by a charity called Hope Group, which also provides medicine to infected health-care workers.
希望小组用人力背回100多份。
It is hoped that the team will return more than 100 manually.
紧接着香港的航运也停掉了。
Then shipping to Hong Kong stopped.
2月9日，来自印度版的克力芝抵达郑州，又以最快的速度发往武汉。
February 9, from India version of the Kaletra arrived in Zhengzhou, and the fastest speed to Wuhan.
给从印度订的300份药物打包装箱| 作者供图四对于在微博上联系松鼠需要用药的人，松鼠的回复一般都很直接：“地址、凭证给我。
Author's response to a 300-pack-a-day order from India For those who contacted squirrels on a microblog and needed medication, the squirrel's reply was usually direct: "Address, voucher, please.
”他无法解决他们情绪上的恐慌。
He could not solve their emotional panic.
双方留下联系方式，加到微信后，松鼠迅速做开场白，接着把资料转给负责审核的志愿者，他们再给每一个需要的人进行排号。
The two sides left contact information, added to the message, squirrels quickly made opening remarks, and then transferred the information to the volunteer in charge of the audit, they again to each need to line up.
对于服药可能会引起的副作用，松鼠也提醒他们：“不要给穿着防护服的医生吃，会不方便。
Squirrels also warn them about the side effects of taking drugs: "Don't give it to doctors in protective clothing. It's inconvenient.
”互助平台的律师朋友又提醒松鼠，拿没有经过严密医学验证的抗病毒药物治疗新冠肺炎患者，是需要承担医疗和伦理风险的。
Lawyers for the Platform for Mutual Aid also reminded squirrels of the medical and ethical risks involved in treating patients with Newcrown Pneumonia with antiviral drugs that are not medically proven.
松鼠没有想那么多，这个风险他也愿意承担。
Squirrel didn't think that much, and he was willing to take the risk.
谈论到这个药引起的副作用，也有人在网上讨论反驳：“副作用和活命，你选哪个？”还有个别患者，即便拿到药也不敢吃，“尤其是他们知道这个药是治疗艾滋病以后。
Talking about the side effects of the drug, others discussed on the Internet and retorted: "Side effects and survival, which one do you choose?" And some patients, even if they got the medicine, were afraid to take it, "especially if they knew it was for AIDS.
”捐药的关注度大了之后，网上开始有人对松鼠送药的行为产生质疑：“你不是医生，凭什么把处方药给患者？”对于克力芝治疗新冠肺炎的有效性，松鼠也不好下定论，“具体我没有统计过，总体上70%是有效的，主要是早期的轻症患者。
As the focus of attention grew, online questions began to be raised about squirrel delivery: "You're not a doctor, so why give a prescription to a patient?" Squirrel was also unsure about the efficacy of Kaletra in treating pneumonia.
”在这期间，松鼠还遇到一个意外情况，他的微信号冷不防地被封了，“有些人申请了拿不到药，就去后台举报，微信就被封了。
"During this time, squirrels encountered an unexpected situation in which his microphone was blocked." Some people applied for medicine and went backstage to report it, and the message was blocked.
”服药后，患者的反馈 | 作者供图网上对于松鼠的攻击和质疑一直没有停止过。
After taking the medicine, the authors' feedback and questions about squirrels on the Internet have not stopped.
有人散布谣言，说松鼠提供的药物是要掏钱买的。
Some people spread the rumor that squirrels were paying for the medicines they supplied.
那段时间，确实有不法商贩在网上叫卖克力芝，一度达到4000元一瓶。
At that time, there were indeed illegal traders on the Internet to sell acrylic, once reached 4000 yuan bottle.
松鼠找到谣言的传播者跟对方对质：“如果你有证据证明我是卖药，请你拿出来。
The squirrel found the man who spread the rumor and confronted him. "If you have proof that I'm selling medicine, please bring it out.
”对方诡辩：“是从微信里看到的。
"The other side sophistry:" I saw it in the letter.
”松鼠第一次感到愤怒，给对方下通牒，“我不管你从哪里看到的，但凡你知道造谣者的信息，请你告诉我，我一定会走司法程序。
"The squirrel, angry for the first time, gave the other an ultimatum." I don't care where you see it, but if you know anything about the disinformation maker, please tell me that I will follow the course of justice.
”也只有在极少的空闲时，松鼠才有精力去回应网上的舆论，大多时间，他还在为捐药想办法。
"Only in very little free time do squirrels have the energy to respond to online public opinion, and most of the time he is still trying to do something about it.
第一批印度药只解了燃眉之急，松鼠又从印度订购了300多份，面对那些质疑和责问，他也只能抛到脑后。
The first Indian drugs met his immediate needs, squirrels ordered more than 300 more from India, and in the face of all the questions and challenges he had to forget.
新订的300多份药物本该在2月10日到达国内，这次的问题是被海关扣住了。
More than 300 of the new drugs were supposed to arrive in the country on February 10, this time by customs.
松鼠很着急：“海关的人说需要药品进口许可才能放行，目前我得先去找受捐单位(医院)，拿到医院开出来的接收材料，再去找省药监局开药品进口许可。
"The squirrel was worried:" The customs people said they needed to get permission to import the medicine. At present, I have to go to the donation unit (the hospital), take the materials out of the hospital and ask the provincial drug control bureau for permission to import the medicine.
”规则就是规则，即便海关的工作人员知道松鼠送出的是救命药，然而一次性通关超过三百份，就必须要这些证明。
The rules are the rule, and even if customs officials know squirrels are delivering life-saving drugs, they must obtain more than 300 one-time customs clearances.
松鼠并不责怪海关的工作人员，“他们也给我想了很多办法。
The squirrel didn't blame the customs staff. "They gave me a lot of ideas, too.
”问题最后是卡在了印度的药商那里，“他们处理文件的速度太慢了。
The problem ended up getting stuck with Indian drug makers, who were working too slowly with their files.
”在拿不到药的那几天，松鼠只好将微博签名改成：“目前没有克力芝了，请见谅”。
"In the days when the medicine was not available, squirrels had to change their tweet signature to read:" At present, there is no Kaletra, please forgive me. "
采访到最后，松鼠说，“如果这次捐药活动能够扭转大众对于艾滋病患者这一群体的偏见，当然好。
At the end of the interview, the squirrel said, "If this drug donation can reverse the popular prejudice against this group of people with AIDS, of course.
如果不能的话，我们也不强求。
If we can't, we can't force it.
我们其实就是想救一个人，尽一份力。
We just want to save a person, to do their part.
”2月19号，松鼠又收到了网友捐赠的100盒克力芝，可以供应150人份，这些药，全部都是无偿提供。
On February 19, squirrels received another 100 boxes of Kaletra, donated by netizens, to supply 150 people, all of them free of charge.
他又开始恢复了忙碌。
He began to get busy again.
作者王大湿，短视频导演编辑|蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why I'm working on this project. Why don't you tell me why I'm doing this? Why don't you tell me why I'm doing this.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他召集艾滋病人，给新冠患者捐药。
He summoned AIDS patients to give medicine to the new crown patients.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他召集艾滋病人，给新冠患者捐药";。
var msg _ title = & quot; He called AIDS patients to give & quot;; at New Crown.
var msg_desc = "多救一个人，多尽一份力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; do as much as you can to save one more person.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
