一个湖北人流落在北京街头。
A Hubei lives on the streets of Beijing.
周披萨。
Zhou Pizza.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“不信。
"Don't believe it.
不查。
Not looking.
不看。
Not at all.
就是一句话，湖北的一律不许进。
In a word, all Hubei people are not allowed to enter.
—全民故事计划的第443个故事—一2月17日中午，我和老公重新回到徐州老家。
On December 17 at noon, my husband and I returned to my hometown in Xuzhou.
在此之前的24小时，我这个没有回过湖北的湖北人，因为420开头的身份证，经历了被阻拦而流落街头的北京一夜。
For the previous 24 hours, I, a Hubei native who had not returned to Hubei, had spent the night in Beijing blocked by a 420-head identity card.
2月16日中午，我们从徐州到北京南站，打车到小区，过程中没有遇到任何通行问题。
February 16 noon, we from Xuzhou to Beijing South Station, take a taxi to the community, the process did not encounter any traffic problems.
之前听说北京查得严，但有提前回京的同事顺利进入小区，我想我没去过湖北，也没到过其他重点疫区，应该也没有问题。
I heard that Beijing check strict, but there are colleagues back to Beijing ahead of schedule into the community, I think I have not been to Hubei, nor to other key affected areas, should be no problem.
加之老公的公司缺人手，希望我们早回来早隔离早复工，我俩就决定返京。
Coupled with my husband's company lack of manpower, I hope we come back early isolation early return to work, we decided to return to Beijing.
知道外地人回京要自行隔离14天，进小区之前，我和老公还特地去便利店买了2桶5升的纯净水和一桶油。
Before I entered the neighborhood, my husband and I went to a convenience store and bought two barrels of 5-liter pure water and a bucket of oil.
我们的荒诞故事，是从晚上10点开始的。
Our cock and bull story started at 10 p. m.
小区门口支着一个行军帐篷。
There is a marching tent at the gate of the community.
五六个穿着保安制服的大爷在轮岗值班。
Five or six men in security uniforms were on guard duty.
查看了我的湖北身份证后，保安拒绝我进入小区。
After checking my Hubei identity card, the security guard refused to let me into the community.
我据理力争。
I argued for it.
不久，另一个大爷从小区里走了出来。
Before long, another big man came out of the small district.
大爷没有穿制服，60岁左右，北京口音。
Grandpa isn't wearing a uniform. He's about 60 years old with a Beijing accent.
大爷问我：“怎么回事儿，你说你们从徐州过来的，没有到过湖北，有证明吗？”我把刚刚对保安说过的话重新解释了一遍，我1月18号从北京去老公的老家，在徐州的一个村子待了一个月，一直到今天回北京，中间连村子都没出去过，也绝对没有回过湖北。
The old man asked me, "What's the matter? You said you came from Xuzhou and didn't go to Hubei, do you have proof?" I reinterpreted what I had just said to the security guard and spent a month in a village in Xuzhou.
我还把电信查询的近14天的行程信息给他们看：尊敬的客户，您好！根据您的授权查询，您于近14日内曾到访：徐州。
I have also shown them the itinerary information of nearly 14 days of telecom enquiry: Dear Customer, Hello! According to your authorization enquiry, you have visited Xuzhou within the past 14 days.
此为公益服务，查询结果仅供参考，不作为最终判定依据。
This is a public service, the result of the inquiry is for reference only, not as the final judgment basis.
运营商的查询记录 |作者供图大爷给出了斩钉截铁的答复，“你给我看这些没用，湖北的就是不能进。
The operator's search record and offer a firm answer. "You can't show me that it doesn't work. Hubei's isn't allowed in.
”我想，既然不相信我，他们可以自己去查。
'I thought, since they didn't believe me, they could look it up for themselves.
我让他们拿着我的身份信息去查我的记录。
I asked them to check my records with my identification information.
大爷说，“没权限，查不了。
"said the man." No authority. No way.
”我继续出示车票的记录给他们。
"I continued to show them the ticket.
大爷不看。
Don't look.
不信。
I don't believe it.
不查。
Not looking.
不看。
Not at all.
就是一句话，湖北的一律不许进。
In a word, all Hubei people are not allowed to enter.
过了不久，另一个大叔开车到了现场。
Soon after, another uncle drove to the scene.
应该是一个级别更高的警务工作站的领导。
It should be headed by a higher-level police station.
大叔说话之前，特地叮嘱保安给他录像，我老公也警觉地拿起了手机拍他，那场面好像是谍战片，敌我双方都掏出了武器指着对方。
Before uncle, specifically asked the security to video him, my husband also alertly picked up the phone to shoot him, the scene seems to be an ultimatum film, both enemy and I took out their weapons pointed at each other.
大叔说话的内容大致相似：第一，我们没有权限调查你的个人信息，你身份是湖北的，你说你没去过湖北，我们也不能信。
First, we are not authorized to investigate your personal information. You are from Hubei Province. You said you have not been to Hubei, and we can't believe it.
第二，我们要对整个小区负责。
Second, we are responsible for the entire community.
我们和自如沟通过了，谁家孩子谁抱走。
We had a good conversation about who had the baby and who took it.
你们找自如管家。
You find a housekeeper.
第三，非常时期非常对待，我们这么做合情合理。
Third, the extraordinary treatment, we do this reasonable.
你们想办法自行隔离。
You guys try to isolate yourselves.
总而言之，湖北的一律不许进。
All in all, Hubei is not allowed to enter.
之前大爷曾提出要看证明，老公本打算联系村里，因为湖北人的身份，我在村里备份过个人信息。
My husband had intended to contact the village because I backed up my personal information in the village because of the identity of Hubei people.
但和那位大叔沟通之后，连证明都不接受了。
But after communicating with the uncle, he did not even accept the certificate.
这些人站在那里，像复读机一样，反反复复强调是为了对小区居民负责，希望我们理解。
These people stand there, like a reread machine, repeatedly stressed that it is responsible to the residents of the community, I hope we understand.
我和我老公在北京有稳定的工作，按时缴纳五险一金，按时缴纳房租，我们也是小区居民的一部分，谁来对我们负责。
My husband and I have steady jobs in Beijing, pay the five insurance money on time and pay the rent on time.
这个问题，没有人可以回答我们。
No one can answer this question.
二现场沟通无效后，我和老公开始打各种热线电话。
After the communication failed, my husband and I began to call various hotlines.
我想，多找点电话，应该总能把问题解决。
I think finding more telephones should always solve the problem.
毕竟我真的没回过湖北。
After all, I really never went back to Hubei.
我们给自如管家打电话。
We'll call a homely housekeeper.
管家回复，和社区沟通了，得不到通融。
The housekeeper replies, communicates with the community, does not get the accommodation.
管家小哥很自责，怪自己漏了通知我最近不要回来。
The housekeeper is very self-reproachful, blaming himself for having omitted to inform me not to come back recently.
他说，我不是个例，但前几天遇到这种情况还能帮忙找整租房源，让我们暂住隔离。
'I'm not alone, 'he says,' but the experience of the last few days has helped find a whole new renter and put us in isolation.
“现在全顺义的小区都是这样，哪里都进不去。
"This is what happens in every neighborhood right now, where you can't get in.
我建议你们先找酒店住下来。
I suggest you find a hotel to stay first.
”挂断自如的电话，我开始打12345市长热线，但一直都在等待接听状态。
Hanging up the phone, I started calling the 12345 Mayor's Hotline, but I was waiting to be heard.
打110，总机接到顺义分机，接线员听我说了情况之后，告知这事儿不在110的管辖范围之内，让我打12345市长热线。
110, the operator listens to me and tells me that the matter is not within 110's jurisdiction. Let me call the 12345 Mayor's Hotline.
于是我们继续拨12345，仍然无人接听。
So we continued to dial 12345, but no one answered.
在此期间，有一对情侣拖着大包小包回小区。
In the meantime, a couple dragged their bags back to the neighborhood.
保安只是口头询问他们有没有去过疫区，俩人说没有，登记身份信息后，直接给放行了。
Security only asked them orally whether they had been to the epidemic area, two people said no, registration of identity information, directly released.
我提出质疑，凭什么他们说他们没去过疫区你们就信，我说我没回过湖北并且我还有证据，你们就是不信。
I question why they said they hadn't been to the affected area and you believed it, I said I hadn't been back in Hubei and I had evidence, and you just didn't believe it.
他们含糊其辞，但还是那句话，湖北人一律不许进。
They mumbled, but still said, Hubei people are not allowed to enter.
就这样在小区门口耗到12点，虽然穿着羽绒服，但扛不住北京冬夜的寒气，我开始流鼻水。
In this way at the gate of the 12 points, although wearing down jacket, but can not carry the cold Beijing winter night, I began to flow nose.
老公让我去隔壁便利店暖暖。
My husband asked me to warm up in the convenience store next door.
因为他不是湖北身份，希望保安能让他进去先放行李，但依然被拒绝。
Because he is not Hubei identity, hope the security guard can let him go in first to put luggage, but was still rejected.
老公还在苦口婆心地游说。
My husband is still lobbying hard.
我被冻得又气又冷，一刻都不想待在那里。
I was so cold and angry with cold that I didn't want to stay there for a moment.
我决定先去找间酒店，不然真的冻感冒了，就哪里都回不去了。
I decided to go to a hotel first, otherwise I would not be able to go back anywhere if I had a cold.
我们放弃沟通，朝离社区最近的酒店走去。
We gave up communication and headed for the nearest hotel in the community.
去酒店的途中，老公终于打通了12345。
On the way to the hotel, my husband finally called 12345.
我们把情况复述了一遍，接线员边敲键盘边应着，说会反映给有关部门解决。
We repeated the situation and the operator answered as he tapped on the keyboard, saying that it would be referred to the relevant authorities.
我问要多久能给解决，她说不一定。
I asked how long it would take, she said, not necessarily.
我又问：“今晚行吗？”她说：“不敢保证。
And I said, "How about tonight?" She said, "I'm not sure.
”我们只能放弃电话求助。
We had to give up the call for help.
离我们最近的酒店并没营业。
The nearest hotel is not open.
顺义其他酒店分布得较散，怕白跑，只好挨个打电话问，收不收近五十天没回过湖北的湖北人。
Shunyi other hotels scattered, afraid of running, had to call one by one, collected nearly 50 days did not return to Hubei Hubei people.
答案都是不收。
The answer is no.
我们在路上找酒店 |作者供图我们俩站在十字路口，万分无助，打了最后一间酒店的电话。
We stood at the crossroad, helpless, and phoned at the last hotel.
答案依然是“不接收湖北人”。
Again, the answer is "no Hubei people."
我抱着试一试的心态问：“知道附近有什么酒店是接收的吗？”对方说：“不太清楚，这种情况可能需要去派出所报备。
"Do you know of any hotels nearby that are open to you?" I asked with a smile. "I'm not sure. I might have to go to the police station and report it.
”我再次拨通了110。
"I dialed 110 again.
一个北京口音的男民警接了电话，听到我们的陈述后，告诉我们会和社区沟通。
A male police officer with a Beijing accent answered the phone and, upon hearing our statement, told us that he would communicate with the community.
当晚我也记不清到底说了多少遍“我，一个没有去过湖北的湖北人被拒绝进入小区”。
That night I couldn't remember how many times "I, a Hubei people who had not been to Hubei was refused access to the community."
越往后，话里夹杂的情绪越多。
The further back you go, the more mixed emotions there are.
得知北京民警愿意帮我们沟通，我欢呼雀跃，想着终于有希望不受冻了。
Knowing that the police in Beijing are willing to help us communicate, I exulted, thinking that there was finally hope not to be frozen.
从12点28分到凌晨1点05分，我们和民警前后一共打了7通电话。
From 12.28 a.m. to 1.05 a.m., we made a total of seven telephone calls with the civilian police.
民警帮我们联系了社区居委会、隔离点和好几家酒店。
The police helped us contact the neighborhood committee, the isolation point and several hotels.
但他的遭遇，并没有比我们好多少。
But he was no better than we.
其中一间集中接收的酒店隔离点，就是离我们小区最近的那家酒店，我们正好站在酒店门口，甚至能隔着玻璃听见民警和里头值班人员的沟通电话（电话开了免提），当值班人员说，要进去必须得到镇长同意后，我听到了民警在电话那头长长的叹息。
One of the central reception points was the hotel closest to our neighborhood, where we were standing in front of the hotel and could even hear, through the glass, the phone calls between the police and the people on duty, who said they had to get the mayor's permission to go in.
民警在电话中对我们说，他会再去联系顺义的其他酒店，现在外面天寒地冻的，要先帮我们找个落脚地。
The police told us on the phone that he would contact other hotels in Shunyi, now it is freezing outside, to help us find a place to stay.
明天白天再解决社区的问题。
We'll deal with the community by day tomorrow.
他让我们问清楚，居委会需要哪些证明才能让我进去，派出所会协助解决。
He asked us what proof the neighborhood committee needed to let me in and the police station would help.
三凌晨1点多，民警打来最后一通电话，结果和我们预想的一样，顺义区没有酒店愿意接待湖北人。
More than 1: 00 a.m. on Wednesday, the police called the last telephone, as we expected, Shunyi District no hotel willing to receive Hubei people.
他很无奈。
He was helpless.
我和老公决定当晚就离开北京，返程。
My husband and I decided to leave Beijing that evening and return.
我们打了一辆滴滴，等车的时候，过去4个小时的恐慌仍在延续。
We hit a drip, and as we waited for the car, the panic of the past four hours continued.
我和老公都非常害怕滴滴司机问我们为什么这么晚要打车去南站，或者需要查看我们的身份证，拒载湖北人。
My husband and I were so scared that the drip driver asked us why we had to take a taxi to the south station so late, or to check out our ID cards and refuse to take Hubei people.
所幸的是，滴滴司机没有和我们过多交谈。
Fortunately, the drip driver didn't talk to us much.
2点半左右，我们到了南站进站口，才发现北京南站并不是24小时营业，此时它已经大门紧闭。
At about 2: 30, when we got to the south station, we found that the station was not open 24 hours, when it was already closed.
我们看到底下的站台火车通道大厅，灯是亮着的。
We saw the train corridor on the platform below. The lights were on.
试图找到出站口的入口，但发现下楼的唯一方法就是从高架上绕个大弯走下去。
Try to find the entrance to the exit, but find that the only way to go downstairs is to walk around the high shelf in a big curve.
最后我俩只能找了个避风处，尽量来回走路活动身体，避免被冻感冒。
Finally we had to find a shelter to walk back and forth to avoid catching a cold.
早上5点，南站终于开门了。
At 5 a. m., the South Station finally opened.
我们买了最早一班回家的车票。
We bought the earliest ticket home.
从前一天中午吃完午饭，一直到第二天上午6点，我们都没有再吃过任何东西。
From lunch the day before until six o'clock the next morning, we did not eat anything.
去北京的一路上，我们都没摘口罩，想着忍一忍到家就能吃到热饭。
On the way to Beijing, we didn't take off our masks, thinking that we could have hot rice at home.
结果饭没吃上，倒是提了一桶油回去。
Instead of eating, he carried back a bucket of oil.
进小区前买的两桶水被我们丢了，那桶油没舍得丢，就一路拎回了家。
Before entering the community to buy two buckets of water we lost, the barrel of oil was not willing to lose, all the way home.
我随身带了一块香皂。
I brought a piece of soap with me.
买完车票，终于扛不住饥饿，找地方洗手，然后和老公在车站吃了顿早饭。
After buying the ticket, finally unable to carry the hunger, find a place to wash their hands, and then had a breakfast with her husband at the station.
7点上车后，我很快就睡过去了。
After I got on the bus at 7: 00, I quickly went to sleep.
8点左右，我接到了一个北京的私人电话，一听又是派出所民警，他再次核实我们的身份证号等信息，说会再去跟居委会沟通解决。
Around 8 o'clock, I received a private call from Beijing, a police station again, he verified our identity card number and other information, said that will go to communicate with the neighborhood.
他的语气里透着无奈和疲惫，说昨晚实在太晚了，打了那么多通电话也没能解决问题。
His tone is full of helplessness and fatigue, said last night is too late, made so many phone calls also failed to solve the problem.
现在是白天，各个单位都上班了，比较容易办事。
It's day time. All units are at work. It's easier to do things.
我们感谢他又对他感到抱歉，昨晚值班一宿，今天下了班还在想着帮我们解决问题。
We thanked him for apologizing for being on duty last night and for trying to help us out after work today.
我告诉他，我们已经坐上了返程高铁，谢过他之后，祝他平安保重。
I told him we were on the return train and thanked him and wished him all the best.
过了不久，顺义食品药监局的工作人员打来电话，说民警跟他们反馈了我们的情况，他们能帮我们协调回社区，或者安排进相应的集中隔离点。
Shortly afterwards, the staff of the Shunyi Food and Drug Administration called and said that the police had told them about us, that they could help us coordinate our return to the community, or that they could arrange for a centralized quarantine.
我们再次谢过，也表达了我们的想法，希望能把具体办事的流程公布出来，和社区做一个沟通，不然会反复遇到这样的问题。
We thank again, also expressed our idea, hope to be able to work out the specific procedures, and the community to do a communication, otherwise will repeatedly encounter this problem.
接完这两通电话，我的心里稍微好过了一些。
After these two phone calls, my heart felt a little better.
离家24个小时后，我们又重新回到家自行隔离，又累又饿又困。
After 24 hours away from home, we returned home and isolated ourselves, tired, hungry and sleepy.
为了不让家人担心，我们撒谎说，北京的小区现在不让外地人进去，我们在酒店住了一晚，买了第二天最早的一班车回来。
In order not to worry our families, we lied that the Beijing district is now off limits to outsiders. We stayed overnight at the hotel and bought the earliest bus back the next day.
等过了一段时间，再回北京。
Wait a while and then go back to Beijing.
口述 | 徐畅撰文 | 周披萨编辑|蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me something about yourself. Why don't you tell me something about yourself.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个湖北人流落在北京街头。
A Hubei lives on the streets of Beijing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个湖北人流落在北京街头";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a Hubei resident at & quot; Beijing & quot;;
var msg_desc = "小区不让进，酒店也不收。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
