95后一线护士：盛放在武汉病房的葵花。
Post-95 front-line nurse: Sunflower in Wuhan ward.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
她会因为想家哭鼻子，也会因为喝到可乐而幸福感爆棚。
She will cry because she is homesick, but also because she will drink Coke and bliss.
她自愿报名到武汉一线为患者服务，我又钦佩她的坚强和勇敢。
She volunteered to sign up to Wuhan to serve the patients, and I admire her strong and brave.
文| 吴美芬小葵是从北京到武汉支援的一名护士，今年24岁。
Wu Mei-fen, a 24-year-old nurse who has travelled from Beijing to Wuhan to support her.
2月7日她到达武汉，至今已经有20天。
It has been 20 days since she arrived in Wuhan on February 7.
2月19日，我通过之前采访过的患者家属翁文联系上她。
On February 19, I contacted Weng Wen, a family member of a patient I had previously interviewed.
2月22日，小葵在休息日接受了我的采访，讲述她支援武汉重症病房的经历。
On Feb. 22, the anemone gave me an interview on her day off to talk about her experience supporting the Wuhan intensive care unit.
小葵在武汉服务的是重症患者，每天工作强度很大。
The anemone serves in Wuhan is the serious patient, daily work intensity is very big.
有一天，她因为生理期不适，在病房晕过去，被同事扶着走出病区。
One day, due to physiological discomfort, she fainted in the ward and was helped out of the ward by her colleagues.
稍微恢复后，她却说：“好气啊！浪费了一套防护服，没有让它发挥大作用。
When she recovered a little, she said, "It's a waste of a suit, not a big one.
”她心疼防护服，我心疼她。
"Her heart ached for her protective clothing, and I loved her.
希望疫情早日结束，让可爱的姑娘们早日回家吧。
Hope the epidemic ends soon and let the lovely girls go home as soon as possible.
以下是小葵的自述：三次请缨，支援武汉大年二十八，医院让各病房选好赴武汉支援的护士，护士长先是在当月应急梯队里选。
The following is the story of the anemone: Three times, support Wuhan about 28 years old, the hospital let the wards choose to Wuhan support nurses, the head nurse was first selected in the emergency echelons of that month.
我没在梯队里，科室报了另外两个护士的名字。
I wasn't in the echelon. The office named the other two nurses.
但这两个护士一个有孩子，另一个刚结完婚准备要小孩。
But one of the nurses had children, and the other had just married to have a baby.
我没结婚，没有孩子，家里人也都支持。
I'm not married, I don't have children, and my family supports me.
我就跟领导说，我们科室报我的名字。
I'll just tell the leader my name's in our office.
我们医院的第一批支援队伍，在大年初一出发，我报了名但没选上。
Our hospital's first support team, in the New Year's Day departure, I signed up but failed to choose.
直到第三批才轮到我。
It wasn't my turn until the third.
医院是先从呼吸监护室、重症科、感染科和急诊科等几个对口的科室优先选派支援力量。
The hospital will give priority to selected support units from the respiratory ward, intensive care unit, infection unit and emergency department.
我是在血液科，所以排得比较后。
I'm in the haematology department, so I'm a little behind.
我从小在奶奶身边长大，头两次报名不敢跟她说，怕她吃不下饭，睡不好觉，只是跟父母商量了一下。
I grew up near my grandmother, the first two applications did not dare to tell her, afraid she could not eat, sleep badly, just consult with their parents.
第三次被选上后，才跟奶奶说。
After being elected for the third time, I told Grandma.
奶奶特别厉害，她说：“我都猜到了，你当护士就应该承担起这份责任。
"Grandma was very strong," she said. "I've guessed that when you're a nurse you should take responsibility for it.
你该去，家里不用担心。
You should go. Don't worry about the house.
”2月7日凌晨5点，为了准时出征，科室领导安排专车来家里接我，我男朋友跟着一起送到医院门口。
On February 7, at 5 a.m., in order to make the trip on time, the department head arranged for a special bus to pick me up at home and my boyfriend followed me to the hospital gate.
我们俩刚刚交往十天，没能一起过第一个情人节有点遗憾。
We've only been together for 10 days and it's a shame we didn't make our first Valentine's Day together.
送别时，他说会买好礼物等我回去。
At parting, he said he would buy a gift and wait for me to return.
到了首都机场，已经看到北京很多家医院的支援队在那里，跟我们同一个航班的有三家医院的人。
At the Capital Airport, we have seen support teams from many hospitals in Beijing and three hospitals on the same flight with us.
十点半起飞，约两小时后，我们降落在武汉天河机场。
It took off at 10: 30. About two hours later, we landed at Wuhan Tianhe Airport.
一下飞机便感觉到区别。
When you get off the plane you feel the difference.
北京是大晴天，武汉是阴天。
It is sunny in Beijing and cloudy in Wuhan.
接我们的大巴车在路上开时，街道上看不到人，一个空城充满了生化危机的感觉。
As the bus picked us up the road, there was no one in the street, and an empty city was filled with a sense of crisis.
我们坐的车全是消毒液的味道，司机师傅穿着防护服，戴着手套。
Our car smelled of disinfectant, and the driver was wearing protective clothing and gloves.
看到这个场景，我一下紧张了起来。
Seeing the scene, I got nervous for a moment.
“第一天下班，我还挺激动的”2月10日，我第一次进入病房工作。
"The first day off work, I was excited." Feb. 10, I first entered the hospital room to work.
那天我跟心外科一位年资很高的护士搭班，从35床管到56床。
That day I worked with a senior nurse in cardio surgery, from 35 to 56 beds.
病区所有的床位都住满了，还有几个患者上了无创呼吸机。
All the beds in the ward were full, and several patients had non-invasive breathing machines.
进入病区前，我穿防护服花了将近一个小时。
It took me almost an hour to wear protective clothing before entering the sick area.
负责感控的老师一直认真查看，看到有一点点露出来就拿胶带帮我粘好，确定无暴露后才让穿下一件。
The teacher in charge of the sensibility control has been looking carefully, see a little bit of exposed tape to help me stick good, make sure no exposure before let wear next.
小葵在病区那会我还没经验，进入病区后护目镜起了雾。
The anemone was in the sick area and I had no experience. The goggles fogged as I got into the area.
给病人发口服药时，我看不清名单上的字，只能上下左右地找一个相对清晰的视角看一眼，再一一询问患者的名字来核对，所以工作进度比较慢，大概花了两个小时。
When I gave the patient oral medicine, I couldn't see the words on the list. I had to look up and down for a relatively clear view and ask each patient's name for verification.
印象最深的是55床和56床一对年轻夫妻。
The most impressive are 55 beds and 56 beds for a young couple.
每次我们测生命体征，无论先给谁测，另一方的都会很紧张。
Every time we measure vital signs, whoever we test first, the other side is very nervous.
先测女患者的，男患者就会很紧张，不断地问她怎么样？反之，亦然。
Female patients first, male patients will be very nervous, keep asking her how? vice versa.
他俩感情特别好，现在都好得差不多，准备出院了。
They were in a particularly good mood. They were almost well now and were ready to leave the hospital.
我们管的患者里，有一位88岁的老奶奶。
One of our patients is an 88-year-old granny.
她一看到我们进入病房，就冲过来要抱我们，但我们要跟病患保持一定的距离，以免受感染。
As soon as she saw us enter the ward, she rushed over to hold us, but we had to keep a certain distance from the patient to avoid infection.
我们就赶紧叫她坐下来，跟她说现在不能抱。
We hastened to ask her to sit down and tell her that she could not hold her now.
她竖着大拇指，很急着地说了很多感谢的话，都是方言，有些我们也听不懂。
She gave a thumbs-up and hurriedly said a lot of thanks in dialect, some of which we couldn't understand.
很多病人都是这样，一直在感谢我们。
A lot of patients are like this and thank us all the time.
第一天下班后，我还挺激动的，没觉得很累。
After work on the first day, I was still very excited, did not feel very tired.
回到酒店后，收到很多社会捐赠的物品，有牛奶、咖啡、水果、零食等。
Upon returning to the hotel, I received many donations from the community, including milk, coffee, fruit and snacks.
我瞎吃了一堆零食，连饭都没吃。
I was blind with a pile of snacks and didn't even have a meal.
一个难忘的情人节和元宵2月13日，我开始上4个小时的班，凌晨1点到5点，之前都是3个小时。
On a memorable Valentine's Day and Lantern Festival on February 13, I began a four-hour shift from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m., three hours before.
当天发现好多病人都上了呼吸机，我们负责床号靠前的一组患者，都是症状比较重的七八十岁老年人。
A number of patients were found on the day breathing machine, we are in charge of the bed number in front of a group of patients, are more severe symptoms of the elderly seventy-eight.
有一个奶奶正处于病危状态，意识有点不清楚，有点躁动。
There was a grandmother in critical condition, a little confused, a little restless.
我从来见过这么大的阵势，一个特别大的无创呼吸机，旁边还放着一个跟我差不多高的氧气瓶，两个通路同时给她供氧，血氧饱和度勉强达到80%。
I've never seen anything like this, a particularly large, non-invasive breathing machine, with an oxygen cylinder about my height next to it, supplying her with oxygen at the same time, with a blood oxygen saturation of barely 80%.
她有点胖，不肯让我们帮她换尿布，换床单也有点难。
She's a little fat. She won't let us change her diapers, and changing the sheets is a little difficult.
我们担心排泄物停留时间长容易造成感染，还是坚持给她换。
We worried that the long duration of excreta retention could easily cause infection, so we insisted on changing it.
我们四个人差不多花了半个小时才把床单换掉，再帮她穿上止尿裤。
It took almost half an hour for the four of us to change the sheets and put on the diapers.
多人为患者换床单4个小时的班跟3个小时的还真不一样，尤其是那天帮那个奶奶换完床单后，热出了一身汗。
A four-hour shift to change sheets for a patient is not the same as a three-hour shift, especially if you're sweating out after you change the sheets for that grandma.
我戴着三层手套，每层都把里边的衣服勒得特别紧，加上紧紧缠着的胶带，下班后发现双手供血不足，发白发胀。
I wore three layers of gloves, each with a straitened coat and tightly wrapped tape. After work, I found that my hands were short of blood and bloated white.
手腕上还有一个勒痕，脸上也出现了深深的土红色印子。
There was also a strangulation mark on the wrist and deep earth-red marks on the face.
回到酒店洗完澡，一个多小时后，那个印子都没下去。
Back in the hotel after the bath, more than an hour later, the impression did not go down.
那天差不多睡了12个小时，我才醒来。
I woke up after nearly 12 hours of sleep that day.
醒来是2月14日，情人节。
Wake up on February 14, Valentine's Day.
我到武汉之后，天天都得给家里人打电话报平安，也会在北京工作的医院群里报平安。
After my arrival in Wuhan, I have to call my family every day to report safety, but also in the hospital group working in Beijing.
当天晚上，天气很好，我们重新领了一批防护物资。
The weather was fine that evening, and we took a fresh supply of protective gear.
在领物资的场地上，我看到有人用巧克力摆了一个“XX医院加油”的造型，还有一个爱心。
In the field of material collection, I saw someone with a chocolate "XX hospital refueling" modelling, and a love.
后来我看到这个造型的图片在各个群里疯传，收获了很多赞与好评。
Later I saw this model of the image in the various groups frantically, harvest a lot of praise and praise.
刚好那天武汉雨过天晴，特别振奋人心。
It happened to be a sunny day in Wuhan, especially exciting.
用巧克力做成的爱心造型2月15日，武汉下大雪，我们在病房里工作感觉很冷。
On Feb. 15, it was snowing heavily in Wuhan. We felt very cold working in the ward.
因为中央空调会携带病菌扩散，导致更多人交叉感染，不能开。
Because central air conditioning will carry the spread of germs, leading to more cross-infection, can not open.
为了保障空气清洁，工作区域窗户全开着，冻到我的手给病人扎针时都不会回弯。
To keep the air clean, the working area windows were open and frozen to the point where my hands would not bend back to give the patient a needle.
我们穿着防护服进入病区工作一圈，满身大汗，大风一吹就更冷了。
We went into the sick area wearing protective clothing, sweaty, even colder when the wind blew.
这天，前面说的88岁奶奶出院了。
That day, the 88-year-old grandmother was discharged from the hospital.
这个奶奶心态特别好，我们来的时候，她没怎么打针输液，只吃口服药之类的中成药，核酸检测就转阴了，CT也没什么事。
This grandmother was in a particularly good mood, when we came, she did not have much injection, only take oral medicine and other proprietary Chinese medicines, nucleic acid testing turned cloudy, CT is nothing.
她刷新了当时我们这个医院出院年龄最高的记录。
She set the record for the highest discharge age in our hospital at the time.
下班回到酒店，因为人太多热水供应不稳定，我洗了个凉水澡。
Back at the hotel after work, I took a cold shower because there was too much hot water.
我们每天都得洗澡，而且每天必须洗30分钟以上，这样才能洗掉身上携带的病菌。
We have to take a shower every day and have to do it for at least 30 minutes a day to get rid of the germs we carry.
2月15日是元宵节，我们领导在微信群里发了一个视频，是我们在北京的同事、朋友还有家人共同录的，也有在我们血液科住院的病人。
February 15 is the Lantern Festival, our leaders in the micro-mail group issued a video, we colleagues in Beijing, friends and family recorded together, but also in our blood hospital patients.
有一个小朋友一岁半刚做完骨髓移植，在视频里用萌萌的声音给我们祝福。
One child just finished a bone marrow transplant at the age of one and a half, and blessed us with a budding voice in the video.
这个视频我刷了好几遍，每一遍都掉眼泪。
I brushed the video several times and cried every time.
“我开始想家了”慢慢地，我们面对病情越来越重的病人，很多人需要扎留置针、插胃管、插尿管，几乎所有的病人都需要氧气支持。
"I began to miss home." Slowly, as we faced an increasingly serious patient, many of us needed needles, tubes, and catheters. Almost all patients needed oxygen support.
医院的氧气不稳定，工作量慢慢加重了。
Oxygen in the hospital is unstable and the workload is slowly increasing.
新增病例每天好几千地往上涨，我们第一批来支援的队员，来了一个多月了，都还没走。
The new cases are rising thousands of times a day, and our first support team has been here for more than a month and still hasn't left.
我不知道自己什么时候才可以回家，看不到什么希望，开始想家，很难受。
I don't know when I can go home, see little hope, began to miss home, very uncomfortable.
虽然厨师每天在换着花样给做饭，但我心情很紧张，吃不下饭，觉也睡不着。
Although the cook is changing the pattern every day for cooking, but I am very nervous, unable to eat and sleep.
一想到要吃饭，便恶心呕吐，甚至要通过抠喉吐出来才舒服。
The thought of eating makes me sick and vomit, even by picking my throat.
做梦都想吃火锅和肯德基，但是医院食堂没有这些。
Dream about hotpot and KFC, but the hospital cafeteria doesn't have them.
2月19日那天晚饭，我只吃了一个橙子，喝了一点清水。
At dinner on February 19th I ate only an orange and drank a little water.
那会跟家里人打电话都哭，整个人很崩溃。
That would make me cry on the phone with my family.
可能是因为患者病情比较重，每天工作暴露的风险很高，也有新闻说有些医院的院长感染去世了，自己便紧张害怕。
This may be due to the severity of the patient's illness, the high risk of daily work exposure, and reports that some hospital directors have died of infection and become nervous and afraid.
那时我奶奶也生病了，在家不去输液。
My grandma was sick, too, and didn't infusion at home.
我给她打电话，我哭，奶奶也哭。
I called her, I cried, and so did Grandma.
2月21日，我是上午9点到中午1点上班。
On 21 February, I went to work from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
我觉得自己必须积极起来，不能天天很消极，就到酒店的健身房用跑步机跑了三公里。
I felt I had to be positive and not be so negative that I went to the hotel gym and ran three kilometers on a treadmill.
后来，我每天都会用酒店的浴巾铺在地上练瑜伽。
Later, I used my hotel bath towel to do yoga on the floor every day.
那天我跟我们医院第一批来的男护士搭班，他原来是重症监护室的，但年纪比我小。
The other day I worked with the first male nurses from our hospital. He was in intensive care, but younger than me.
我们管的是病情最重的一组病人，由1床管到13床，其中有7个病人上了呼吸机。
We were dealing with the most serious group of patients, ranging from 1 to 13 beds, seven of whom had ventilators.
有一位患者，头两天还能自己下床吃饭、洗衣服，那天却上了无创呼吸机、插着尿管和胃管，我看了特别难受。
One patient, who was able to get out of bed and wash his clothes on his own for the first two days, had a non-invasive ventilator, a catheter and a stomach tube on that day.
有一天夜里，周围特别安静，这位患者一直在按铃，说害怕，觉得自己会死掉。
One night it was so quiet that the patient kept ringing the bell, saying he was afraid and thought he was going to die.
他很紧张和焦虑，想有人在旁边陪着。
He was nervous and anxious to be around.
但他一着急，氧饱和度就会往下掉，呼吸频率上升。
But when he is in a hurry, the oxygen saturation drops and the frequency of breathing increases.
他一直在喘气，氧气也进不去。
He's been gasping, and he can't get in with oxygen.
我们教他用鼻子深呼吸，吸到不能再吸了，再用嘴慢慢地吐出来。
We taught him to take deep breaths with his nose, to suck them out, and to spit them out slowly with his mouth.
这样，他的呼吸频率才慢慢降了下来。
In this way, the frequency of his breathing slowly dropped.
像这样的患者，医生基本上判定他们已经病危，但我们又不能跟他或者家属这样讲。
In a patient like this, the doctor basically decides that they are critically ill, but we can't tell him or his family that.
也是21日，院长跟我们讲，轻症病人转到方舱或者出院后，我们要大量收治病危患者。
Also on the 21st, the dean told us that when light patients were transferred to the cabin or discharged from the hospital, we had to treat a large number of critically ill patients.
我们病区46个病患中，可能有40个是需要上呼吸机的。
Of the 46 patients in our area, 40 may need a ventilator.
所以像方舱那样跳舞的氛围，我们感受不到。
So we couldn't feel the atmosphere of dancing like the cabin.
4个小时的班，我们基本上一直在走，没有停下来过。
Four hours of work, we've been walking, we haven't stopped.
有个病人觉得自己可能会闯不过去，想到了安乐死。
One patient thought he might not make it through and thought about euthanasia.
但这在中国是不允许的，所以没有办法。
But this is not allowed in China, so there is no way out.
他70多岁，病得很痛苦，基本靠嘴来呼吸，呼吸机的风把嘴唇吹得干裂，鼻腔也很干燥。
He was in his seventies, painfully ill, breathing largely through his mouth, his lips parted by the ventilator's wind, and his nose dry.
经历过呼吸机能生存下来的人，毅力都太强了。
People who have survived respiratory function have too much willpower.
我还发现了一个现象，就是女患者都比男的生存欲强。
I also found a phenomenon is that women patients than men's desire to survive.
可能是女子都当了妈妈，要照顾家人，所以更坚强些。
Perhaps the women have become mothers, to take care of their families, so stronger.
现在我们医院的首要任务是降低病死率。
Now our hospital's priority is to reduce the fatality rate.
别的支援队的任务可能是将所有感染患者隔离，不再传染给别人。
Other support teams may be tasked with isolating all infected patients from transmission to others.
我们的任务是医治病情最重的人。
Our task is to cure the worst.
其实我之前在血液科工作，死亡率很高。
I used to work in the hematology department, And I had a high mortality rate.
死亡我已经见到过了，心里有预期。
I've seen death. I've got expectations.
但很少像现在这样：患者在你面前活活地被憋死，你用尽了所有能想到的办法，还是救不回来。
But rarely like this: the patient is suffocated in front of you, and you have exhausted all that you can think of, and you cannot save it.
这种无能为力的感觉，很崩溃。
This feeling of powerlessness is crumbling.
患难与共有一次，我们35床的奶奶需要止尿裤、卫生纸跟湿巾，我们给她的家属打电话。
Once upon a time, our 35-bed grandmother needed diapers, toilet paper and a wet towel. We called her family.
可家属说全家人都住在医院，没有人能够给她买这些。
But the family said the family lived in the hospital and no one could buy it for her.
医护人员就从自己的物资里匀一点出来给她。
The paramedics set aside a little of their own supplies for her.
现在我每次上班，都从房间拿些吸管、纸尿裤、湿巾之类的物资到病区给患者备着。
Now, every time I go to work, I get some stuff like straw, diapers, wet towels from my room for patients.
可能是我们这个医院太大了，饭菜的供应不稳定，不会像方舱那么好。
Maybe our hospital is too big and the food is not always served as well as the cabin.
有一天我下夜班，看到病人的早饭只是一碗白米粥和一个白面馒头，没有咸菜，也没有鸡蛋。
One night when I was on the night shift, I saw that the patient's breakfast consisted of a bowl of rice porridge and a white bread, with no pickles or eggs.
一些年纪大的人吃是够了，但那些四五十岁的患者就不够饱。
It is enough for some older people to eat, but not enough for those in their 40s and 50s.
所以，我们也会带些泡面、牛奶、饼干之类的给他们。
So we also bring them some noodles, milk, biscuits and so on.
想着这个时候，他们吃到泡面肯定很开心。
Thinking about this time, they must be very happy to eat noodles.
你们之前采访的翁文奶奶就住在我这个病区。
Grandma Weng, whom you interviewed earlier, lives in my sick area.
可能是奶奶刚住院时，手机没带，与家里失联了，翁文就辗转问了很多朋友联系上我。
Perhaps grandma was just hospitalized, mobile phone did not take, and lost contact with home, Weng Wen on many friends contact me.
有一天晚上9点多，我帮她跟翁文连上视频电话，看着他俩在视频里乐乐的，特别开心。
One night at 9: 00 pm, I helped her connect with Weng Wen on the video phone, watching them in the video music, especially happy.
爱心人士送的鲜花现在他奶奶两次核酸结果都转阴，CT结果也通过，已经出院了。
The flowers from the loving man Now his grandma has had two negative nucleic acid results, CT results also passed, has been discharged from the hospital.
我问她回去后怎么办，儿子还住院，一个人能行吗？她说社区来接，自己洗衣做饭没问题。
I asked her what to do when she got back. My son was still in the hospital, could she do it alone? She said the community would come and do its own laundry and cooking.
我觉得这里的老人超级坚强。
I think the old people here are super strong.
翁文奶奶还说要去献血救儿子。
Grandma Weng said she would donate blood to save her son.
我不断地劝她，后来她才说不去了，但我感觉她心里还是想去的。
I kept trying to persuade her, and then she said no, but I felt like she wanted to go anyway.
翁文奶奶出院时，我送给她一个糖果和一张卡片，还抱了她一下。
When Grandma Weng was discharged from hospital, I gave her a candy and a card and gave her a hug.
看到奶奶很开心的样子，我觉得这些天没有白付出。
See grandma is very happy appearance, I feel these days did not pay in vain.
我们在这里成立了临时党支部，入党申请书都交上去了，大家的思想特别积极。
We have set up a temporary Party branch here, the application for membership has been handed in, everyone's thinking is particularly positive.
有一个同事年纪比我小，到现在都没有告诉她妈妈已经来了武汉。
A colleague is younger than me and has not told her that her mother has come to Wuhan.
昨天和我搭班的护士，她嗓子已经哑到说不出话，眼睛也肿起来了，每天要借助安眠药才能睡着觉。
The nurse with whom I worked yesterday had lost her voice, her eyes were swollen, and she needed sleeping pills every day.
我现在已经好多了。
I'm much better now.
厨师会给我们做水饺、绿豆汤、小酥肉这些北方常吃的菜，还有酸辣萝卜条。
The chef would make dumplings, green bean soup, crispy crispy meat, a popular northern dish, and hot and sour radish sticks.
有天回酒店的车上，司机师傅说，湖北省政府给我们一线医务工作者都办了一张卡，5年之内可以免费游湖北所有的景点。
One day back to the hotel car, the driver master said the Hubei provincial government to our front-line medical workers have a card, within five years can be free to visit all the scenic spots in Hubei.
他还说，等到樱花开时，我们还没回去的话，就带我们去看樱花，吃正宗的热干面。
He also said that when the cherry blossoms, we have not returned, take us to see cherry blossoms, eat authentic hot and dry noodles.
吃到幸福爆棚的热干面和萝卜条我超级期待，热干面还没吃够呢。
Eat the hot and dry noodles and radish sticks in the blissful shelter. I'm really looking forward to it.
「相关文章」如果你是湖北孝感的一位发热孕妇住在方舱的摄影师：这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶「征集活动」无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系分享你与疫情的故事「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你进入我们的微信群后台留言“进群”加志愿者微信。
If you are a photographer living in the cabin of a febrile pregnant woman in Hubei province: This photo was posted on the front page of the People's Daily today. Wuhan RunerBrother: From fitness trainer to courier If you can, I'd like to share your story with Grandma.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
95后一线护士：盛放在武汉病房的葵花。
Post-95 front-line nurse: Sunflower in Wuhan ward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "95后一线护士：盛放在武汉病房的葵花";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; # 95 rear-line nurse: Kwai Flower & quot;; & quot; in Wuhan ward.
var msg_desc = "祝可爱的姑娘早回家。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wish the lovely girl an early return home.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '如果你是湖北孝感的一位发热孕妇',。
If you were a feverish pregnant woman at Hubei & apos; s service.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '住在方舱的摄影师：这个照片今天在人民日报的首页登了',。
Photographer with cabin service: This picture appeared today at the front page of the People's Daily.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员',。
Running errands in Wuhan: From fitness instructor to courier & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '武汉跑腿小哥：从健身教练到快递员',。
Running errands in Wuhan: From fitness instructor to courier & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '如果可以，我想替爷爷送玫瑰给奶奶',。
If I may, I'd like to send my grandpa roses to Grandma & apos;.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
