超1200例确诊、总统身边有感染者，韩国为何突成第二大疫情国。
With more than 1,200 cases diagnosed and infected with the president, South Korea is the second most endemic country.
健闻吴晔婷。
Nicknamed Wu selected.
八点健闻                      。
Eight good news.
八点健闻。
Eight good news.
看得懂的健康专业新闻。
Understandable health professional news.
韩国1月20日发现首例确诊病例，此后一个月疫情发展缓慢，到2月18日确诊31例。
In South Korea, the first confirmed case was detected on January 20, followed by a slow onset in the following month, with 31 cases confirmed by February 18.
2月19日后突然暴增，一周新增超过1200例。
There was a sudden surge after February 19, with more than 1,200 new cases a week.
18日确诊的第31号患者，被视为“超级传播者”。
Patient No. 31, who was diagnosed on February 18, is considered a "super-communicator."
韩国新冠疫情的一大特征是，在特定群体内出现了集中感染。
A hallmark of the new crown epidemic in South Korea is the emergence of concentrated infections within specific populations.
新天地大邱教会和庆尚北道清道郡大南医院是重灾区。
Taegu Church in Xintiandi and Ching Nan Hospital in Qingdao, Gyeongshan North Province are the hardest hit areas.
新冠肺炎在韩国的致死率为1%左右，高于中国非湖北地区。
The death rate of New Crown Pneumonia in South Korea is about 1%, higher than in non-Hubei areas of China.
2月23日，韩国政府将新冠疫情预警级别上调至最高级别“严重”。
On February 23, the South Korean government raised the alert level of the new crown epidemic to the highest level of "severity."
2月25日，文在寅抵达大邱慰问一线抗疫人员和民众。
On February 25, Wen arrived in Daegu to offer condolences to frontline anti-epidemic personnel and people.
仅仅一周，韩国就成了中国之外最大的新冠肺炎疫情国。
In just one week, South Korea became the biggest new outbreak of pneumonia outside China.
据韩联社报道，截至2月26日下午4时，韩国当日新增284例感染新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）确诊病例，累计确诊1261例，死亡病例增至12例。
As of 4: 00 p.m. on February 26, 284 new cases of coronavirus infection (COVID-19) had been confirmed, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 1,261, and the number of deaths rose to 12.
△ 图片来源：韩联社；由八点健闻汉化其中大邱市和庆尚北道是主要疫区。
Source: Korea Union Bureau; Daegu City and Gyeongshan North Province are the main epidemic areas.
作为韩国六个“广域市”之一的大邱市，以及作为八个“道”之一的庆尚北道，均属韩国一级行政区。
Daegu, one of South Korea's six "wide-area cities," and Gyeongshan North Province, one of the eight "Dao" states, are first-degree South Korean districts.
不止韩国，日本、意大利、伊朗等国也都呈现出感染人数在快速上升的趋势。
Not only South Korea, Japan, Italy, Iran and other countries are also showing a rapidly rising trend in the number of infections.
对于新冠病毒在境外的蔓延，流行病学和病毒学专家早有预警。
Epidemiology and virology experts have long warned of the spread of the new crown virus abroad.
2月9日，日本电视台NHK推出全球首部新冠病毒疫情纪录片——《疫情会扩大到何种程度，紧急报告新冠肺炎》中，片中主持人连线WHO传染病危机及管理高级顾问进藤奈邦子，她当时就表示，中国的管控让海外患者大幅减少，但成果预计只能保持到2月底。
Japanese television channel NHK, which launched the world's first documentary on the outbreak of the new crown virus - "To what extent will the outbreak spread and urgently report new crown pneumonia" - said on February 9 that China's controls had drastically reduced the number of patients overseas, but the results were expected to last until the end of February.
而就在一周前的2月18日，韩国确诊病例数仅为31，也就是说，自韩国1月20日发现首例确诊病例后的一个月，疫情发展缓慢。
On February 18, just a week ago, the number of confirmed cases in South Korea was only 31, meaning that one month after South Korea's first confirmed case was discovered on January 20, the outbreak has been slow.
其中11日至15日连续5天无新增感染者，一度让外界以为，韩国的疫情控住了。
11 to 15 of the five consecutive days without new infections, once let the outside world think that the South Korean epidemic under control.
△图片来源：韩联社为什么形势突然就变了？超级传播者与新天地大邱教会变化发生在2月19日。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Why did the situation suddenly change? The change of super communicator and Taegu Church in Xintiandi took place on February 19th.
当天，大邱市和庆尚北道地区出现大规模扩散和集体感染，此后的数据每日成倍增长。
Large-scale spread and collective infections occurred in Daegu and Gyeongshan-North Province on the same day, and figures have multiplied daily since then.
变化的关键就在于18日确诊的第31号患者，这位61岁（注：韩国卫生部官网信息显示其年龄为59岁，韩联社相关报道中均称是61岁）的韩国女性被视为病毒“超级传播者”。
The key lies in the 18-day-old No. 31 patient, a 61-year-old Korean woman who is considered a "super-communicator" of the virus.
该女性是新天地耶稣教会信徒，住院前后曾四次到大邱市一教堂做礼拜，共有1160位密切接触者。
The woman, a Jesuit devotee of Xintiandi, attended a church in Daegu four times before and after hospitalization, with 1160 close contacts.
在19日当天韩国新增的20例确诊患者中，15例与其相关，多数曾与其去过同一个教堂。
Of the 20 new patients diagnosed in South Korea on the 19th day, 15 were related to them, most of whom had been to the same church.
新天地大邱教会信徒是此次韩国疫情中波及的主要群体，截至26日上午9时的统计数据，1146名确诊患者中，有501名与新天地大邱教会相关，占比达43.7%，此前更是一度超过50%。
Taegu Christians in Xintiandi were the main group affected by the outbreak, with 501 of the 1,146 confirmed cases, or 43.7 percent, linked to Taegu Church in Xintiandi, up from more than 50 percent at one time.
在目前的12例死亡病例中，3例与新天地大邱教会相关。
Of the current 12 deaths, three were related to Taegu Church in Xintiandi.
31号确诊患者居住在大邱市，2月7日首次出现发冷、咽喉痛等症状，乘坐汽车前往大邱市寿城区韩国东方医院住院治疗，2月10日左右开始出现发热症状。
Confirmed patient No. 31, residing in Daegu city, first developed chills and sore throat on 7 February. He was hospitalized by car at the Korea Oriental Hospital in Daegu City. Febrile symptoms began around 10 February.
住院治疗期间，曾先后于9日和16日两次前往大邱南区的教堂做礼拜，并外出至酒店用餐。
During the hospitalization, he visited the church in the southern part of Taegu on two separate occasions, on 9 and 16 September, and went out to the hotel for dinner.
直至18日，经检测确诊为新冠病毒感染。
Until 18, the test confirmed that the new crown virus infection.
鉴于病毒潜伏期最长为14天，防疫部门调查了该患者出现症状前参加的2次礼拜，加上住院期间的2次，共计4次。
Given that the incubation period of the virus was up to 14 days, the vaccination department investigated the patient's participation in two weeks prior to the onset of symptoms, plus two during hospitalization, for a total of four times.
△新天地教会举行的礼拜活动；新天地教会官网宣传视频截图根据韩国卫生与服务部官网的公开信息，该患者自2019年12月以来没有海外旅行经历，也没有接触确诊患者，无法确认感染源和感染途径，仍在进一步展开流行病学调查。
According to public information on the official website of the Ministry of Health and Services, the patient has had no overseas travel experience since December 2019, has no contact with confirmed patients, is unable to identify the source of infection and the route of infection, and is still conducting further epidemiological investigations.
△截图自韩国卫生与服务部官网的公开信息，原文为韩文，此为网页直译版。
Photographs from the Korean Health and Services Department website open information, the original text in Korean, this is a direct translation of the page.
更早些时候，第31例病人有可能参加了吸引不少教徒到场的教主胞兄的葬礼。
Earlier, it was possible that the thirty-first patient had attended the funeral of a brother-in-law who had attracted a large number of worshippers.
葬礼在庆尚北道清道郡大南医院于1月31日至2月2日进行。
The funeral took place from January 31 to February 2 at Ching Nan Hospital, Ching Tao County, Gyeongshan North Province.
清道大南医院：集中感染，7例死亡韩国新冠疫情的一大特征是，在特定群体内出现了集中感染。
Ching Nan Hospital: Concentrated infection, 7 deaths A hallmark of Korea's new crown epidemic is the presence of concentrated infections in specific groups.
除了新天地大邱教会，另一个重灾区是庆尚北道清道郡大南医院（简称“清道大南医院”），该院有精神病区，最初于2月19日出现2例确诊病例，截至26日上午的统计数据，累计113例确诊病例与清道大南医院有关，占比达9.9%。
In addition to the Taegu Church in Xintiandi, another major disaster area is the Ching Nan Hospital on Ching Road, Gyeongshan North Road (Ching Nan Hospital), which has two confirmed cases on February 19. As of the morning of February 26, a cumulative total of 113 confirmed cases are related to Ching Tao Tainan Hospital, accounting for 9.9%.
清道大南医院位于庆尚北道清道郡，是一家主要针对老年疾病的综合医院，住院患者以老年人居多。
Ching Nan Hospital, located in Ching Road County, Gyeongshan North Province, is a general hospital for the elderly, with the majority of hospitalized patients.
该医院精神科住院楼栋多为多人间并采取封闭式管理，共102名住院病人，99人确诊。
The hospital's psychiatric inpatient building, which is multi-room and closed-ended, has 102 inpatients and 99 patients diagnosed.
在这次疫情中，清道大南医院成了重灾区，截至26日，12例死亡病例中，7例归入该院。
In this outbreak, Ching Tao Da Nan Hospital has become a major disaster area, as of the 26th, 12 deaths, 7 cases into the hospital.
△ 图片来源：韩联社；由八点健闻汉化最早在2月19日，该医院2位精神病房住院患者被确诊感染病毒，中央防疫对策本部随即对医院所有的患者和职员展开调查。
2007-9-25 21: 48 The Central Preventive Measures Headquarters launched a survey of all patients and staff of the Hospital after two inpatients in the hospital were diagnosed with the virus on February 19.
当天上午，有109名患者和120名左右医院职员进行了痰液检测。
That morning, 109 patients and about 120 hospital staff were tested for sputum.
因第31例患者曾在确诊前的2月初访问了清道郡，该院病例是否与其相关，也是当时韩国中央防疫对策本部的调查重点。
As the thirty-first case had visited Ching Tao County in early February before diagnosis, whether the hospital case was related to it was also the focus of an investigation by the Korea Central Preventive Response Headquarters at the time.
同一天，该院出现了全国首例死亡，该病例是一名63岁的韩国籍男性，此人在该院住院20多年，死于肺炎。
On the same day, the hospital experienced its first national death, a 63-year-old Korean man who had been hospitalized for more than 20 years and died of pneumonia.
卫生部门在病人死后对其实施病毒检测，结果呈阳性。
The Department of Health tested the patient for virus after his death and found him to be positive.
该院的第二例死亡，也就是韩国的第二例死亡，出现在21日下午。
The hospital's second death, the second in South Korea, occurred in the afternoon of May 21.
该病例为54岁女性，此前住在庆尚北道清道郡大南医院的精神病院，在被转入普通病房当天确诊感染病毒，并被救护车送往釜山大学医院。
The 54-year-old woman, who had previously lived in a psychiatric hospital at Ching Nan Hospital, Ching Tao County, Gyeongshan Province, was confirmed to have contracted the virus the day it was transferred to the general ward and was taken by ambulance to Busan University Hospital.
在转院后的下午5时左右，于治疗过程中身亡。
He died in the course of treatment at around 5 p.m. after the transfer.
韩国九老医院感染内科教授金宇柱指出，大南医院的新冠病例多为住院多年的老弱患者且大多情况危重，死亡率在国内最高，这说明患者可能没有得到妥当治疗，有必要尽快采取措施，对患者进行重症分类，及时转至大学医院的负压病房接受专业治疗。
Kim Yu-joo, professor of infectious medicine at Korea's Jiuolao Hospital, said the new crowns of patients hospitalized for many years, most of them in critical condition and the highest mortality rate in the country, suggested that patients may not receive proper treatment.
26日，中央应急处置本部副本部长金刚立表示，除7例死亡病例外，该院106例病例中已有25例转至其他医疗机构，其余患者由国立精神病院派遣的医务人员进行治疗。
Jin Gangli, copy minister of the Central Emergency Management Headquarters, said that, in addition to seven deaths, 25 of the hospital's 106 cases had been referred to other medical institutions, with the remainder being treated by medical staff from the state-run psychiatric hospital.
金刚立表示，政府目前正在研究重症患者转院方案，并已根据重症程度对患者进行分类，必要时将为其办理转院，但由于大多患者同时患有精神疾病，转院工作有一定难度。
Kim said the government is currently studying referral options for patients with severe illness and has classified patients according to the severity of their condition and will transfer them to hospital if necessary. However, most patients suffer from mental illness at the same time, making it difficult to transfer them to hospital.
根据韩联社26日的报道，与大南医院有关的新冠病例共113人，包括103名原住院患者、9名医务人员和1名患者家属，患者中101名发生在封闭式病栋。
A total of 113 new cases, including 103 former hospitalized patients, 9 medical staff and 1 patient's family members, were reported in the Dayan Hospital, 101 of whom occurred in closed wards.
而大南医院的集中死亡也直接拉升了新冠肺炎在韩国的致死率，韩国中央防疫对策本部长郑银敬26日表示，韩国境内感染新型冠状病毒的致死率为1%左右，死亡病例主要集中在高龄或有基础疾病的患者。
The death toll from the new-type coronavirus in South Korea is around 1 percent, with deaths concentrated in the elderly or those with basic illnesses, said Zheng Yingjing, minister of the National Preventive Measures for South Korea.
而这一数据高于中国非湖北地区。
The figures were higher than in non-Hubei areas of China.
郑银敬解释称，一般情况下新冠病毒的致死率并不高，但在高龄或有糖尿病、心血管疾病患者中致死率较高。
Zheng Yingjing explained that the death rate of the new crown virus is not high in general, but it is higher in the elderly or those with diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
韩国之所以出现多例死亡病例是因为在疫情初期易感染群体聚集的清道大南医院发生集体感染。
There were many deaths in South Korea because of a mass infection at Ching Nan Hospital, where vulnerable groups congregated at the beginning of the outbreak.
为了降低国内新冠病例的死亡率，政府将改善管理体系，在发病初期严格判断病情轻重程度，对病情较重的患者进行集中检查和治疗。
In order to reduce the mortality rate of new crown cases in China, the government will improve the management system, strictly judge the severity of the disease in the early stage of the disease, and carry out intensive examination and treatment of patients with serious illness.
军队、总统府感染引发担忧2月21日，韩军部队发现首例确诊病例。
Army, presidential infection caused concern Feb. 21, ROK troops found the first confirmed case.
在济州海军部队工作的A某，他从13日开始到大邱休假，18日下午乘飞机返回济州并归队，20日因出现咳嗽等症状到医院筛查诊所接受病毒检测后重返部队。
A, who works in the Jeju Navy, from the 13th to Taegu holiday, 18 afternoon return to Jeju and return to the team, 20 because of cough and other symptoms to the hospital screening clinic for virus testing re-enter the army.
为防止疫情扩散，韩国国防部决定从22日起限制官兵休假、外出、外宿和探视，但退役前休假、丧假等特殊情况例外。
To prevent the spread of the disease, the Ministry of National Defence has decided to restrict leave, outings, outings and visits for officers and men from 22 days, with the exception of special circumstances such as pre-retirement leave and bereavement leave.
至23日中午，韩国海陆空部队均发现确诊病例，陆军4人、海军1人、空军1人，共计6人，均系营外感染。
Up to noon on the 23rd, the ROK air, sea and land forces found confirmed cases, four army personnel, one navy, one air force personnel, a total of six people, all outside the camp infection.
24日，这一数据上升至11人。
This figure rose to 11 on the 24th.
韩国国防部认为，一旦疫情在部队内扩散将导致局面无法掌控，因此军方采取扩大隔离范围等进一步升级的管控措施。
The South Korean Defense Ministry believes that if the spread of the epidemic within the forces will lead to uncontrollable situation, the military has taken further escalation of control measures, such as the expansion of isolation measures.
截至23日，韩军共有7700余人被隔离，各军根据国防部的方针加强了管控措施。
As of the 23rd, more than 7,700 South Korean troops had been quarantined, and the armed forces had tightened control measures in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Defence.
陆军、海军、空军、海军陆战队从2月10日起针对前往大邱、庆北地区休假或外出的官兵进行全面调查。
Since February 10, the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps have conducted a comprehensive survey of all officers and men on leave or outside Daegu, Gyeongbei.
军队感染不仅发生在韩军内部，甚至波及了驻韩美军。
The infection has affected not only South Korean troops, but also American troops in South Korea.
26日，韩国庆尚北道驻韩美军基地的一名美军士兵确诊感染新型冠状病毒。
26, South Korea Gyeongshan North Road base in the United States military base confirmed the infection of a new coronavirus.
该士兵目前正在基地外的宿舍居家隔离，他21日起住在卡罗尔营，24日访问过位于大邱市的沃克营。
The soldier, who is currently separated from his quarters outside the base, has been living in Camp Carol since 21 and visited Camp Walker in Daegu on the 24th.
鉴于韩国大邱市和庆尚北道地区确诊病例骤增，驻韩美军19日将预警级别由低级（Low）上调到中级（Moderate），25日又上调到高级（High）。
Due to the sharp increase in confirmed cases in Daegu City and Gyeongshan North Province of South Korea, the US Army raised the alert level from low level to intermediate level and up to advanced level on 25th.
依据新的预警级别，美军将对一切进出部队的人流进行限制，除必需任务外，会议、集会、临时派遣都受限。
Under the new alert level, U.S. forces will restrict all movement of troops into and out of the country, with restrictions on meetings, gatherings and temporary deployments, except for essential tasks.
美军还全面禁止官兵休假或因私外出，建议基地之间避免人员流动，但还没有将随军家属撤回本土的动向。
The U.S. military has also imposed a blanket ban on military vacations or private exits, recommending that movement between bases be avoided, but there have been no moves to bring families home.
和军队感染一样，青瓦台内部如有感染也将是引发担忧的敏感事件。
As with army infections, infections inside the Qingwadai can be a sensitive cause for concern.
而类似的事件确实发生在了韩国总统文在寅身边。
Similar events did take place alongside South Korean President Wen Jin-yin.
Play2月25日，文在寅抵达大邱慰问一线抗疫人员和民众，并主持召开新型冠状病毒疫情对策会议，他表示，本周必须看到遏制病毒的转折点。
PlayOn February 25, Wenin Yin arrived in Daegu to offer condolences to frontline anti-epidemic personnel and the public, and hosted a conference on the response to the new coronavirus epidemic.
会议上，文在寅和团队一起为患病和逝去的民众祷告默哀。
At the meeting, Wen and his team observed a moment of silence in tribute to the sick and departed.
当时他不知道的是，出席会议的大邱市经济副市长的秘书会是确诊病例，因为那时该秘书的检测结果尚未出炉。
What he did not know at the time was that the secretary of the Deputy Mayor of Daegu, who was present at the meeting, would be a confirmed case, as the secretary's test results were not yet available.
得知该消息后，青瓦台建议当时出席会议的相关人士和媒体记者实施7天的居家隔离。
Upon learning of the news, Tsing Wadai advised those present at the meeting and media reporters to impose a seven-day stay-at-home quarantine.
隔离期间若出现发烧、呼吸道疾病症状，需拨打疾病管理本部紧急热线电话（1339）或辖区卫生站后按照指示前往筛查诊所接受检查。
If a fever, respiratory symptoms occur during isolation, call the Department of Disease Control Emergency Hotline (1339) or the Bailiwick Health Post to be directed to the screening clinic for examination.
整体来说，韩国政府层面防控及时，但还是面临着诸多来自市民和信徒的挑战，比如市中心集会。
Overall, South Korean government control is timely, but faces a number of challenges from citizens and believers, such as town hall meetings.
韩国政府自1月20日发现首例确诊患者后，将新冠疫情预警级别从“关注”上调至“注意”级别，之后再次上调至“警惕”级别，至2月23日上调至最高级别“严重”。
The South Korean government raised its alert level from "concern" to "attention" level after the first confirmed case was found on January 20, and again to "alert" level, rising to the highest level on February 23.
根据韩联社报道，韩国传染病预警级从低到高分为四个阶段，分别是关注、注意、警惕、严重。
According to KFW, the alert level for infectious diseases in South Korea is divided into four stages: attention, attention, vigilance and severity.
这是韩国政府继2009年甲型H1N1流感后时隔11年再次发布最高级别的传染病预警。
This was the second highest-level infectious disease alert issued by the Korean Government 11 years after the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic.
在发布“严重”预警之后，政府可采取最高级别的应对措施，包括下令各级学校关闭、禁止集体活动等。
After issuing a "serious" warning, the government could respond at the highest level, including ordering the closure of schools at all levels and banning collective activities.
_韩国防控时间轴_2月16日（确诊29例，死亡0例）韩国国务总理丁世均指示卫生部门强化社区防控体系。
South Korea has instructed its health authorities to strengthen the community control system on Feb. 16, 2009 (29 confirmed cases and 0 deaths).
当天确诊的第29例新冠病毒感染病例近期不曾访华也未接触过确诊病例，由此引发疫情或已经扩散到社区的忧虑。
The 29 new crown virus cases confirmed on the same day have not visited China recently and have not been exposed to confirmed cases, triggering an outbreak or spreading concern to the community.
_2月17日（确诊30例，死亡0例）新冠病毒感染症纳入“重症急性呼吸系统传染病监管体系”；同时列入“流感和呼吸道病毒性病原体感染症监控体系”，像季节性流感一样随时实施监控检查，该体系目前共检测8种病毒。
On Feb. 17, 2008 (30 confirmed cases and 0 deaths), HCV infection was added to the SARS surveillance system. It is also included in the "Influenza and Respiratory Virus Infection Surveillance System," which carries out surveillance checks as readily as seasonal influenza, and currently detects eight viruses.
扩大新冠病毒的检测范围，构建社区和医疗机构监测体系。
Expand the detection scope of new crown virus and construct the monitoring system of community and medical institution.
_2月18日（确诊31例，死亡0例）中央防疫对策本部：疫情进入新局面；卫生部门在采取对入境者进行检疫、接触者进行自我隔离等应对方案的同时，社区要制定防控疫情扩散的对策。
February 18 (Confirmed 31 cases, 0 cases) Central Preventive Measures Headquarters: The epidemic has entered a new situation; the health authorities are adopting quarantine and self-isolation of the people entering the country, while the community should formulate countermeasures to prevent and control the spread of the epidemic.
_2月19日（确诊51例，死亡0例）自武汉入韩人员行踪已全数查明。
February 19 (51 confirmed cases, 0 deaths) from Wuhan into the ROK personnel whereabouts have been fully identified.
大邱一教堂发生新冠病毒超级传播事件。
Supertransmission of New Crown Virus at Taegu Church.
中央应急处置本部总负责人卢洪仁：在大邱和庆北地区，社区传播实际上已经开始，政府有必要全面修改防疫对策。
Central Emergency Response Department chief Luhong ren: In Daegu and Gyeongbei areas, community communication has actually begun, and the government needs to overhaul the epidemic prevention response.
轻症患者应尽可能在家休息观察病情。
Patients with mild illness should rest at home as much as possible.
专家们认为国内也已全面出现社区感染。
Experts believe that there is also a full-blown community infection in the country.
分散包括卫生站在内的所有医疗机构的职能，建立以医疗机构为中心的全方位防疫体系，以提高防疫效率。
We should decentralize the work of all medical institutions, including health stations, and establish a comprehensive epidemic prevention system centred on medical institutions so as to improve the efficiency of epidemic prevention.
另设让有呼吸道患者放心就医的门诊。
A separate clinic is available for patients with respiratory tract problems.
卫生部门正在协商改组医疗系统，让卫生站负责进行筛查诊疗，公共医院负责轻症的住院患者，定点隔离医院和上级医院负责重症病人。
The health sector is negotiating the restructuring of the health system to make health posts responsible for screening and treatment, public hospitals for light inpatients, and sentinel hospitals and higher hospitals for seriously ill patients.
_2月20日（确诊104例，死亡1例）韩政府表示疫情已从海外流入，进入社区传播阶段。
On Feb. 20 (104 confirmed and 1 dead), the South Korean government said the outbreak had entered the community transmission phase from overseas.
大邱新设8个病毒筛查诊所，并再安排24名公共卫生医师。
Eight new Virus Screening Clinics were set up in Daegu and 24 additional public health practitioners were deployed.
病床紧缺，防疫部门正在考虑与地方政府协商，将患者移送至周边地区医疗机构的方案。
There is a shortage of beds and the vaccination department is considering a programme to transfer patients to peripheral medical institutions in consultation with local authorities.
发布疫情应对指南第六版，扩大新冠病毒检测对象范围；重新定义疑似病例。
Release the 6th Edition of the Epidemic Response Guide to expand the range of new crown virus targets; redefine suspected cases.
提高密接者解除隔离标准，隔离第13天需接收病毒检测，结果呈阴性才可解除隔离。
Raise the standard of isolation of the operator, isolation for 13 days to receive a virus test, negative results can be released from isolation.
韩国国会保健福祉委员会表决通过了旨在应对新冠病毒（COVID-19）疫情的三项法案，具体包括《关于预防及管理传染病法律》《检疫法》《医疗法》的修订案。
The National Assembly's Committee on Health and Welfare voted on three bills aimed at addressing the New Crown Virus (COVID-19) epidemic, including specific amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Management of Infectious Diseases and the Quarantine Law (Medical Law).
韩防疫部门对发生超级传播教会千余教徒实施居家隔离。
South Korea's anti-epidemic agency has isolated more than a thousand people in the super-transmission church.
_2月21日（确诊204例，死亡2例）韩国拟将大邱市和庆北清道郡指定为疫情重点管理区。
February 21 (204 confirmed cases, 2 deaths) South Korea will designate Daegu City and Qingdao County Gyeongbei as key epidemic management areas.
韩军部队出现首例确诊患者，韩军为防控疫情明起限制官兵外出休假。
South Korean Army troops in the first confirmed case of the disease, the South Korean Army to prevent and control the outbreak of officers and soldiers on leave.
首尔市决定暂时禁止在光化门广场、首尔广场和清溪广场举行集会，新天地教会设于首尔的设施将从当天起关闭。
Seoul has decided to temporarily ban rallies at the photochemical gate plaza, Seoul square and Qingxi Plaza. The Church's facilities in Seoul will be closed from the same day.
彻查参加新天地大邱教会礼拜和庆尚北道清道郡大南医院葬礼的人员。
Check out the funeral service of Taegu Church in Xintiandi and Ching Nan Hospital in Qingdao, Gyeongshan North Province.
韩青瓦台因新冠疫情考虑暂停对外开放参观。
Han Qingwadai due to Xinguan outbreak of consideration to suspend open visit.
_2月22日（确诊433例，死亡3例）韩国国务总理丁世均：疫情进入严重局面；政府在透明地公开有关疫情的一切情况，希望全体国民也如实报告个人情况。
22 February (433 cases confirmed and 3 deaths) South Korean State Minister Ding Se-jung: The outbreak has entered a serious situation. The government is making all information about the epidemic transparent and hopes that all citizens will also report the situation truthfully.
_2月23日（确诊602例，死亡6例）韩军升级管控措施严防新冠病毒营内传播。
February 23 (602 confirmed cases, 6 deaths) South Korean Army upgrade control measures to prevent the spread of the New Crown Virus Camp.
韩国将新冠疫情预警级别上调至最高级别“严重”。
South Korea raised its alert level for the new crown to the highest level of "severity."
韩外长康京和会见世卫组织总干事谭德塞讨论合作防疫。
Foreign Minister Kyung-wha Kang met with WHO Director-General Theresa Tam to discuss cooperation in epidemic prevention.
防疫部门每日新冠病毒的检测量达到5000至6000份，并争取当天完成检测，最晚不超过24小时。
The anti-epidemic department has tested 5,000 to 6,000 doses of the new crown virus each day and aims to complete the test on the same day for a maximum of 24 hours.
截至目前，韩国共有2.2万余人接受新冠病毒检测，其中1.6038万人检测结果呈阴性，6039人的结果还未出炉。
So far, more than 22,000 South Koreans have been tested for the virus, including 16.038 million who tested negative and 6,039 who have yet to be tested.
_2月24日（确诊833例，死亡8例）韩国釜山一疗养医院因出现确诊病例被封。
24 February (833 confirmed cases, 8 deaths) A convalescent hospital in Busan, South Korea, was closed for confirmed cases.
韩卫生部门：新冠死者将先火化后殡葬。
ROK HEALTH HEALTH: The new crown will be cremated and buried first.
韩政府认为抓社区防控是新冠防疫重中之重。
South Korea believes community control is the new crown epidemic prevention top priority.
防控调整方向：加大对轻症病例的排查力度，防范疫情扩散；针对确诊患者专门建立诊疗体系，有效治疗并减轻肺功能损伤的问题；确保与新冠疫情无关的其他患者也能接受有效治疗。
To prevent and control the spread of the disease by stepping up efforts to detect minor cases and prevent the spread of the disease; to set up a specialized system of diagnosis and treatment to treat and mitigate lung damage effectively; and to ensure that other patients not related to the new crown outbreak receive effective treatment.
政府认为以流行病学调查和隔离接触人员为主展开防疫防控工作仍然有效。
The Government believes that epidemiological surveillance and quarantine of personnel remain effective in the prevention and control of epidemic diseases.
_2月25日（确诊977例，死亡10例）韩政府将对新天地教会全信徒进行新冠检测，政府强调若新天地方面不积极配合政府防疫，只能采取法律手段。
On Feb. 25 (977 confirmed cases and 10 deaths), the government will test all believers in Xintiandi Church for the new crown. The government stressed that if Xintiandi does not actively cooperate with the government in preventing epidemic diseases, it can only take legal measures.
韩国党政青拟对大邱庆北采取超强防控措施，将大邱和庆北两地划为特别管控区，采取超强“封锁措施”力阻疫情蔓延。
The party intends to take super-strong control measures against Daegu Qingbei, designated Daegu and Gyeongbei as special control areas, taking super-strong "blockade measures" to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
“最大程度封锁”意味着补强织密防疫网，阻断疫情在社区扩散，并不是说要完全“封市封道”禁止出入。
"Maximum blockade" means reinforcing the dense network of epidemic prevention, blocking the spread of the epidemic in the community, not to say that the total "closed" access.
自中国大陆和港澳地区入境者需走专用通道，并安装自我诊断APP。
Immigrants from Mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau need special access and install self-diagnosis APP.
目前八成自华入境者安装自我诊断APP。
At present, 80% of Chinese immigrants install self-diagnosis APP.
韩政府明起限制口罩出口解决紧缺问题。
South Korea has imposed restrictions on the export of face masks tomorrow.
_2月26日（确诊1261例，死亡12例）首尔地方警厅通告一社团勿在市中心集会。
February 26 (1261 confirmed cases, 12 deaths) Seoul District Police Department informed a community not to gather in the city center.
韩国政府建议民众暂停聚集性活动，主办方在考虑紧迫性、疫情传播可能性、与会者的感染风险等因素后可推迟或取消大型活动；与会者超过1000人以上时必须制定应对方案并向地方政府申报，而地方政府可根据防控难度要求主办方弥补应对方案或取消活动。
The South Korean government has proposed a moratorium on mass events, with organizers postponing or cancelling large-scale events after considering such factors as urgency, spread of the epidemic, risk of infection for participants; when more than 1,000 participants attend, they must formulate a response plan and declare it to the local government, which may request the host to make up the response or cancel the event, depending on the difficulty.
韩国国会表决通过三项有关防疫的修订法案。
South Korea's parliament voted to pass three revised bills on epidemic prevention.
韩国天主教会因疫情暂停所有弥撒。
The Catholic Church has suspended all mass due to the outbreak.
吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006我们尊重原创版权，未经允许请勿转载。
Ms. Wu selected a microsignal: wytlucky19 Wang Zhilu006. We respect original copyright and do not reproduce it without permission.
授权转载郑琪 微信号:1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
Authorized reprint of Zheng Qi microsignal: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tells burst of material, feedback, join the core reader community, please sweep the code to let your friends see you, too.
健闻吴晔婷。
Nicknamed Wu selected.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
超1200例确诊、总统身边有感染者，韩国为何突成第二大疫情国。
With more than 1,200 cases diagnosed and infected with the president, South Korea is the second most endemic country.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at eight.
var msg_title = "超1200例确诊、总统身边有感染者，韩国为何突成第二大疫情国";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "韩国海陆空军都发现确诊病例，隔离7700多人";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="八点健闻";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; eight.
