六位护工终于找到去处。
Six nurses finally found a place.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
金才玉（中）等护工前往街道求助，希望安排收治。
Jincai Yu (middle) and other nurses went to the streets for help, hoping to arrange admission.
本文约3393字预计阅读时间9分钟作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 王林编辑 | 张国武汉1月23日宣布封城之后，900万人留守，正在武汉市中心医院照顾病人的6位护工阿姨却发现，自己很快陷入了无处可去的窘境。
About 3393 words It took about 9 minutes to read. After the announcement of the city's closure on January 23, 9 million people stayed behind. Six nurses and aunts attending Wuhan's central hospital found themselves in no place to go soon.
疫情蔓延开来的时候，这些护工在干部病房里照顾离退休干部。
When the epidemic spread, the nurses took care of retired cadres in the staff wards.
她们老家都在农村，到武汉是全天候照顾病人的饮食起居，吃住都在医院，没有固定住所。
Their hometown is in the countryside, to Wuhan is all-weather care of patients living and eating in the hospital, there is no fixed abode.
疫情加剧后，为避免交叉感染，院方要求护工全部离开，她们照顾的病人改由护士负责。
To avoid cross-infection after the outbreak, the hospital asked the nurses to leave the hospital and put the patients under their care.
最困难时，这些阿姨只能在医院东躲西藏打地铺。
In the most difficult times, these aunts had to hide in the hospital.
有人出现了肺炎症状，也很难得到及时安置。
Some people have pneumonia symptoms, it is also difficult to get timely resettlement.
61岁的金才玉是其中之一。
The 61-year-old Jincai Yu is one of them.
1月27日那天，金才玉和她照顾的病人一同从武汉市中心医院后湖院区转到南京路院区。
On January 27, Jin Caoyu and the patients she cared for were transferred from the Houhu courtyard area of Wuhan Central Hospital to the Nanjing Road courtyard area.
后湖院区已被列为新冠肺炎定点医院，其他病人都被转出。
The Houhu district has been designated as the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital and all other patients have been evacuated.
后湖院区有护士提醒金才玉，医院内部有人感染了新冠肺炎，包括不少医生和护士，叮嘱她一定要勤洗手、戴口罩。
A nurse in Houhu District alerted Jincai Yu that someone inside the hospital had contracted pneumonia, including many doctors and nurses, and told her to wash her hands frequently and wear a mask.
武汉市中心医院是此次疫情中医务人员感染较多的医院之一。
Wuhan city central hospital is one of the hospitals with more medical staff infection in this epidemic.
到了2月上旬，武汉市中心医院南京路院区也出现了不少新冠肺炎确诊和疑似病例。
In early February, Wuhan city central hospital Nanjing Road courtyard area also appeared a lot of new crown pneumonia diagnosis and suspected cases.
另一位护工陶明娟记得，那些天医院楼道内的咳嗽声“多了起来”，她很害怕。
Another nurse, Tao Mingjuan, remembers the days when she coughed "more and more" in the hospital hallway and she was scared.
这几年，陶明娟大部分时间都在做护工。
In recent years, Tao Mingjuan has spent most of her time as a nurse.
春节前，听说武汉出现了能“人传人”的疾病，她和几个同乡原打算结伴回乡。
Before the Spring Festival, heard that Wuhan can "person-to-person" disease, she and several fellow townsfolk intended to go home together.
但1月23日武汉突然封城，回家的路被切断了。
But on January 23, Wuhan suddenly closed the city, the way home was cut off.
2月10日晚，金才玉照顾的病人出现了发烧症状，后来的CT检测结果发现肺部病毒性感染。
On the night of February 10, Jincai Yu took care of the patient with fever symptoms, later CT test results found that the pulmonary virus infection.
医院很快将病人隔离，之后将其转到定点医院。
The hospital quickly isolated the patient and then transferred him to a designated hospital.
金才玉成了需要隔离的“密切接触者”。
Jin Cha-yu became a "close contact" who needed to be isolated.
老人的子女在外地，最近一年都是金才玉在照顾。
The children of the old man are out in the field, and Jin Caoyu has been taking care of them for the past year.
听说了父亲的病情，老人的儿子给金才玉转了500元作为感谢。
Hearing of his father's illness, the old man's son gave Jin Chuan Yu 500 yuan as a thank you.
2月11日，金才玉用这笔钱到医院给自己做了一次CT检查。
On February 11, Jin Chaoyu went to the hospital to have a CT examination.
“那时候也有点咳嗽，心里很害怕，因为我一直在爹爹（方言，指老年男性）跟前照顾他。
"I coughed a little at the time and was scared because I had been taking care of him in front of Daddy.
”幸运的是，她属于支气管炎，并非新冠肺炎。
Fortunately, she was bronchitis, not pneumonia.
但其他滞留在医院的护工没有这么幸运。
But other hospital nurses are not so lucky.
2月11日-13日，另外5位护工陶明娟、王珍先、刘桂明、尹志芬、陈焕子经CT诊断为肺部病毒性感染。
On February 11-13, five other nurses, Tao Mingjuan, Wang Zhen-sien, Liu Guiming, Yin Huanzi and Chen Huanzi, were diagnosed as pulmonary viral infections by CT.
当时试剂盒紧缺，她们无法做核酸检测，一直未能确诊。
There was a shortage of test kits and they could not be tested for nucleic acid and have not been diagnosed.
医院内确诊和疑似病例较多，护工的工作需要24小时看护病人，医生也难以判定她们的感染源头。
The number of confirmed and suspected cases in hospitals is high, the work of caregivers requires 24-hour care of patients, and it is difficult for doctors to determine the source of their infection.
2月12日，院方要求护工们离开医院。
On February 12, nurses were asked to leave the hospital.
有护士提醒她们，可以去找附近的街道和社区求助，上报患病信息，并安排隔离收治。
Nurses alerted them to seek help from nearby streets and communities, report cases and arrange for isolation.
按照当时武汉市疫情防控指挥部的要求，医院收治新冠肺炎患者，必须经由社区联络才能安排床位。
At that time, according to Wuhan city epidemic control command requirements, hospitals admitted patients with new crown pneumonia, must be community liaison to arrange beds.
从这天起，这6位护工陆续找到附近的街道办事处反映情况，但结果都未能如愿。
From that day on, the six nurses approached a nearby street office to report the incident, but to no avail.
街道办事处和社区居委会工作人员都称，因为她们在武汉没有住所、没有户籍，无法安排隔离和收治，只能登记她们的姓名、电话、症状等基本信息，等待安排。
Neighbourhood offices and neighbourhood committee workers stated that they could not arrange isolation and treatment because they did not have a residence in Wuhan, could not arrange isolation and treatment, but only registered their names, telephone numbers, symptoms and other basic information, waiting to be arranged.
医院和街道都表示无法安排隔离和收治后，她们彻底慌了。
After hospitals and streets said they could not arrange isolation and treatment, they panicked.
“从来没有想过会遇到这种事。
It never occurred to me that this would happen.
”陶明娟说。
'said Tao.
陶明娟在武汉做护工将近10年。
Tao Mingjuan worked as a nurse in Wuhan for nearly 10 years.
因为年纪大了，丈夫身体也不好，去年春节家人都劝她不要再出来打工，但她还是想趁着腿脚方便，到武汉的大医院找点活儿干。
Because of her old age and her husband's poor health, her family advised her not to come out for work last Spring Festival, but she still wanted to find some work in the big hospital in Wuhan.
儿子两年前研究生毕业，她又操心起了给儿子找对象的事儿，想多攒点儿钱。
After her son graduated from graduate school two years ago, she became worried about finding a partner for her son and wanted to save more money.
在武汉做护工，每天最少可以挣130多元，远比在老家务农收入高。
Wuhan as a care worker, can earn at least 130 more per day, far higher than in the home farming income.
疫情打乱了她的计划。
The outbreak upset her plans.
情急之下，金才玉等人向给她们介绍工作的家政服务中介公司求助。
In case of emergency, Jincaoyu and others to introduce their work to the domestic service intermediary companies.
该公司负责人聂腊仙当时正在武汉居家隔离，也很为她们着急。
The head of the company, Nie Laxian, was isolated at home in Wuhan and worried about them.
“她们都是55岁以上的人，文化水平不高，智能手机都不会用，有的连怎么存电话、发短信都不会，这叫她们怎么办呢？”聂腊仙向110、120、市长热线、街道和社区等多方求助，但始终找不到地方可以收留这6位护工。
"They are over 55 years old, have no education, can't use smartphones, can't even save phone and text messages, what do they do?" Nie Laxian turned to 110, 120, the mayor's hotline, the streets and the community, but couldn't find a place to house the six nurses.
他在网上发出的求助信息强调：这些护工阿姨都是外来打工者，在中心医院的干部病房照顾离退休干部，但在武汉没有固定住所，外加年纪较大，也不懂其他求助渠道。
His online help message stressed that the nurses and aunts are migrant workers who take care of retired cadres in the central hospital's staff wards, but do not have a fixed home in Wuhan, adding that they are old and do not understand other avenues of recourse.
这种情况下，感染加重可能随时危及生命，流落街头也会有感染别人的可能性。
In such cases, increased infection can be life-threatening at any time, and living on the street can expose others to infection.
有志愿者注意到这条求助信息，想方设法帮忙联系、求助。
Some volunteers noticed this help message and tried to help contact and ask for help.
2月12日晚，无处可去的几位护工不得不自己想办法。
On the night of February 12, the nurses, who had nowhere else to go, had to find their own way.
金才玉找到了一位老乡，在一个病房里躲了一夜。
Jincai Yu found a villager and stayed in a ward for a night.
王珍先、陈焕子在医院门诊楼找了个角落，挤着过了一夜。
Wang Zhen, Chen Huanzi in the hospital clinic found a corner, squeeze the night.
尹志芬、陶明娟、刘桂明3人找了几张纸壳，垫在冰冷的楼道里，拥着被子依偎在一起。
Yin Zhifen, Tao Mingjuan, Liu Guiming three people found a few paper shells, cushion in the cold corridor, cuddled quilt nestled together.
那几天，湖北省及武汉市多次召开会议，提出“应收尽收、应治尽治”原则，推进新冠肺炎确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者“四类人员”分类集中收治。
In those days, Hubei and Wuhan held many meetings and put forward the principle of "receiving as much as possible and treating as much as possible," pushing forward the principle of "four categories of people" who are in close contact with patients with confirmed pneumonia, suspected patients, febrile patients unable to exclude the possibility of infection, and confirmed patients.
6人中会用智能手机的金才玉和王珍先也看到了这样的说法。
Six people will use smart phones Jincai jade and Wang Zhen first saw such a statement.
连续几天，她们多次向附近街道、派出所和社区反映自己的困难。
For several days, they repeatedly complained about their difficulties to nearby streets, police stations and communities.
“我们跟街道说，不管哪样总要有个遮风避雨的地方，求他们给安排。
"We told the street that there was always a place to shelter from the rain and the wind, and begged them to arrange it.
从11日到13日每天都去，一天去找三四次，但每次都是一样的（结果）。
Go three or four times a day from the 11th to the 13th, but every time it is the same.
”金才玉回忆。
"said the King.
6人当中，只有金才玉的CT检测结果正常。
Among the 6 people, only Jincaoyu's CT test results were normal.
她明白，跟已有感染症状的其他5人待得越久，自己越可能感染。
She knew that the longer she stayed with the other five who already had the infection, the more likely she was to become infected.
但医院不让住了，社区又无法安排，她也实在没地方可去，只好戴着两层口罩，跟大家待在一起。
But the hospital was closed, the community unable to arrange, and she really had nowhere to go, so she had to wear a two-storey mask and stay with everyone.
口罩是一位护士给她的。
The mask was given to her by a nurse.
她之前曾帮忙腾空病房、搬运物资，护士给她塞了一盒口罩。
She had previously helped vacate the ward and move supplies, and the nurse stuffed her with a box of masks.
这些口罩并非医用一次性口罩，还有一股奇怪的味道。
These masks are not medical disposable masks. They also have a strange smell.
但当时口罩奇缺，金才玉坚持佩戴口罩。
But then mask shortage, Jincai Yu insisted on wearing a mask.
事后她回想，这可能是自己接受的最直接的帮助。
In hindsight, she thought, it might have been the most direct help she had received.
2月13日晚，6人又在医院楼道里将就了一夜。
On the night of 13 February, the six men spent another night in the hospital corridor.
医院并不同意她们继续留在院内，但因为她们实在无处可去，保安没有采取强制措施。
The hospital did not agree that they would remain in the compound, but as they had nowhere else to go, the security guards did not take coercive measures.
她们白天去找街道继续求助，或者在医院的花坛边期盼消息，晚上“趁机溜进”医院楼道，挤在一起取暖。
They go to the streets during the day for further help, or wait at the hospital flower beds for news, "sneak into" the hospital hallway at night and huddle together to keep warm.
尹志芬说，楼道里铁制的椅子和地板，都是一样的冰凉。
'The iron chairs and floors in the hallway are just as cold, 'Mr. Yin says.
比这更让她们难忘的，是对家人撒的谎。
Even more memorable than this is the lie they told to their families.
以前，金才玉几乎每晚都会跟家人视频聊天，但2月13日那天晚上，她骗家人说自己在医院附近的小旅社住下了，“跟几个老姐妹住在一起，很好”。
She used to have a video chat with her family almost every night, but on the night of February 13, she lied to her family about staying at a hostel near the hospital.
儿子不放心，发了好几次视频邀请，都被金才玉拒绝了。
The son is not at ease, made several video invitation, were rejected by Jincai Yu.
她找借口，说流量不足、话费不够。
She made excuses for not having enough traffic and not having enough money for her calls.
过了一会儿，儿子给她充好话费，她又说信号不好。
After a while, her son gave her charge, she said the signal is not good.
“在外面这么多年了，也不想家里给我担心。
"After all these years out there, I don't want to worry about my family.
”尹志芬自认也是个很要强的人。
Mr Yin thinks he is also a strong man.
武汉封城以来，她跟家人通话的时间比以前短了许多。
Since the city was closed, Wuhan has spoken to her family for much shorter periods than before.
家人问起，她都说自己在医院一切都好。
When asked by her family, she said she was all right at the hospital.
但打心底里，她不想挂断电话。
But from the bottom of my heart, she doesn't want to hang up.
儿媳妇去年生了娃，小孙子正是牙牙学语的时候，她想多听一听。
Her daughter-in-law gave birth to a baby last year. When her little grandson was learning the language, she wanted to hear more.
最艰难的日子是2月14日。
The toughest day is February 14.
这天，武汉开始大幅降温，晚上更是风雨交加，有的地方还飘起了雪花。
On this day, Wuhan began to significantly cool down, the night is more stormy, some places also floating snow.
6个人已经两天没有正经吃过一顿热饭了。
Six people haven't had a hot meal in two days.
她们只能吃之前买的饼干充饥。
They had to eat the biscuits they had bought before.
她们也买了泡面，但没处打热水。
They also bought noodles, but they didn't get hot water anywhere.
那天也是转机到来的时候。
It was also a turning point.
有志愿者和记者核实相关信息后，向武汉市和江岸区疫情防控指挥部反映了相关情况。
Volunteers and reporters to verify the relevant information, Wuhan City and the Jiangan District Command reflects the situation.
当晚，中国青年报·中国青年网记者通过江岸区民政局，联系到了位于江岸区的一处隔离点。
That evening, China Youth Daily's China Youth Net correspondent contacted a seclusion point in the Jiangxi District through the Civil Affairs Bureau.
这天一直到午夜，风雨才稍弱了些。
It was not until midnight that the storm abated somewhat.
2月15日凌晨左右，在大家的帮助下，6位护工先后住进了隔离点。
February 15 around the early morning, with the help of everyone, six care workers have been living in isolation.
隔离点为6位护工准备的餐食。
A meal prepared at the quarantined point for six nurses.
根据病情，工作人员将她们分别转送至不同医院。
Depending on their medical condition, staff members refer them to separate hospitals.
2月17日，刘桂明被转送至华润武钢医院接受治疗。
On February 17, Liu Guiming was transferred to China Resources Wugang Hospital for treatment.
2月18日，王珍先、尹志芬被转至中南医院；症状轻微的金才玉、陈焕子分别被送至两处方舱医院。
On 18 February, Wang Zhizhen and Yin Zhifen were transferred to the Zhongnan Hospital, while Jin Cai-yu and Chen Huanzi, who had mild symptoms, were taken to two cabin hospitals.
2月22日，陶明娟从隔离点被转送到新华医院接受治疗。
On February 22, Tao was transferred from the quarantine point to Xinhua Hospital for treatment.
在隔离点和医院，她们陆续接受了CT和核酸检测，结果各有不同。
At isolation points and hospitals, they received CT and nucleic acid tests with varying results.
陈焕子和陶明娟核酸检测结果都是阴性，CT检测为病毒性肺炎。
Both Chen Huanzi and Tao Mingjuan nucleic acid test results are negative, CT detection for viral pneumonia.
尹志芬正在等待她的结果。
Yin is waiting for her results.
刘桂明前后做过4次核酸检测，前两次结果未知，后两次结果为阴性。
Liu Guiming did 4 nucleic acid tests before and after, the first two results are unknown, the latter two results are negative.
王珍先迄今接受过4次核酸检测，第一次检测结果为阴性，第二次结果为阳性，后两次结果还未拿到。
Wang has had four nucleic acid tests so far, the first negative results, the second positive results, the last two results have not been obtained.
“护士说核酸检测不准，要我们多做几次。
The nurse said the nucleic acid test was inaccurate and asked us to do it a few more times.
”只有金才玉，做过2次核酸和3次CT检测，结果都没什么异常。
Only Jincai-yu, who had two nucleic acids and three CT examinations, had no abnormalities.
她安慰其他人说：“我们都是同患难的老姐妹啊，一定会没事的。
She comforted the others and said, "We are all old sisters in trouble. It will be all right.
”金才玉的老家在湖北省枝江市。
"Jincaoyu comes from Zhijiang City, Hubei Province.
她以前从没在外地过年。
She has never spent New Year in other places before.
但2020年春节，他们一家8口分布在好几个地方。
But for the 2020 Spring Festival, their family of eight people is spread over several places.
因为疫情，大儿子一家留在广州，小儿子一家留在宜昌，只有64岁的丈夫留在老家。
Because of the outbreak, the eldest son's family stayed in Guangzhou, the youngest son's family stayed in Yichang, and only the 64-year-old husband stayed at home.
她希望疫情赶快结束，赶紧回老家看看，如果可以的话，也让孩子们都回家，“补过一个年”。
She wanted the epidemic to end quickly, and to go home and let the children go home, if possible, "for another year."
住院后，刘桂明感觉自己身体恢复得不错，听护士说再有一段时间自己就可以出院。
After being hospitalized, Liu Guiming felt well and listened to the nurse say he would be able to leave the hospital in a few days.
但她担心的事情又来了：因为在武汉没有住所，出院以后仍需隔离观察，这一次，她希望政府部门能够给安排合适的住处。
But her fears returned: since she had no home in Wuhan and had to be kept in quarantine after leaving the hospital, she hoped the government would arrange suitable accommodation for her.
（王嘉兴对此文有贡献）中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
(Wang Jiaxing has contributed to this article) China Youth Daily China Youth Net has produced a micro-letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
六位护工终于找到去处。
Six nurses finally found a place.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "六位护工终于找到去处";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "最困难时，这些阿姨只能在医院东躲西藏打地铺。
var msg _ desc = & quot; At its most difficult, the women had to hide in a hospital and lay about.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
