他们接管了“重灾区”。
They took over the disaster area.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄中青报·中青网见习记者 李 强编辑 从玉华脚下的地，是黏的。
Zhongqing Post-graduate reporter Li Qiang / She Zhongqing News Zhongying. net trainee reporter Li Qiang editorially editorially from the foot of Yuhua, is sticky.
那是泼洒在地面上的药水得不到及时清洗造成的。
It was caused by the lack of timely washing of the medicine sprayed on the ground.
57岁的郭亚兵很少在医院碰到这样的情形，即使是17年前在北京小汤山医院抗击“非典”时。
The 57-year-old rarely encountered such a situation in a hospital, even 17 years ago when Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital fought SARS.
但当1月26日他带领广东省9家医院组成的126人的临时医疗队，接管武汉市汉口医院一个“重灾区”时，他感觉自己像被“泼了一瓢冷水”。
But when he led a temporary medical team of 126 people from nine hospitals in Guangdong province on January 26 to take over a "disaster area" at Hankou Hospital in Wuhan, he felt as if he had been "splashed with cold water."
在武汉市汉口医院3号楼2层呼吸科第六病区，病房里挤着80个危重症新冠肺炎患者，只有两个护士和两个眼科医生守着；十几个病人同时按响床头铃呼叫护士，总有病人无人搭理；医疗垃圾堆在病区最里面的一间屋子里，满满一屋子没人收；地，黏乎乎的，没人拖；缓冲区空间昏暗狭小，每次仅容两人穿脱防护服。
There were only two nurses and two ophthalmologists in the ward. About a dozen patients rang the bedhead bell simultaneously to call the nurse, and the medical rubbish piled up in the innermost room of the ward, filled with empty rooms; the space was dark and small, allowing only two people to wear protective clothing at a time.
实际上这只是这所有400张病床的临时传染病医院的一部分。
This is, in fact, only part of the 400-bed temporary infectious disease hospital.
“天呀，怎么这么多重病人。
"Good heavens, how come so many patients!
” 医疗队42岁的护士长李利也被吓坏了。
Nurse Li, 42, of the medical team, was also horrified.
每开一个病区，一天就收满了援兵到来之前，武汉市汉口医院医务部主任吕清泉，已经连续工作了23天。
Before the arrival of reinforcements in one day, Lu Qingquan, medical director of Hankou Hospital in Wuhan, had been working continuously for 23 days.
从1月3日，汉口医院收到第一个有华南海鲜市场接触史的疑似病例开始，他的工作就再没停歇。
Hankou Hospital began work on January 3 with the first suspected case of exposure to the South China seafood market.
大多数的夜晚，他都是在办公室里的行军床上度过的。
Most nights, he spent his time on his camp bed in his office.
“当时认为可能没有传染性，但我们还是非常警惕。
"We thought it might not be contagious, but we were very vigilant.
”吕清泉告诉记者，1月5日，汉口医院将位于一栋独立小楼二楼的呼吸科和内分泌科腾空，作为最早收治病人的病区。
On January 5, Hankou Hospital vacated the respiratory and endocrinology departments on the second floor of an independent small building, the hospital said.
这也是后来广东医疗队接管的病区。
This was the area later taken over by the Guangdong medical team.
发热门诊就诊人数越来越多，影像学检查显示“病毒性肺炎”越来越多。
Fever clinic attendance more and more people, imaging examination shows that "viral pneumonia" more and more.
1月13日晚上9点，医院又将住着近70位病人的心内科病房腾空，科室与病人临时调整到外科大楼。
At 9 p.m. on January 13, the hospital emptied the cardiology ward of nearly 70 patients and temporarily relocated the department and patient to the surgical building.
“我们每开一个病区，一天就收满了。
"Every time we open a sick area, it's full in a day.
”吕清泉说，“1月19日发现情况不对，病人太多了，医务人员不够。
"On January 19, we found that there were too many patients and not enough medical staff," Lu said.
我们就把内分泌科关掉了。
We just shut down the endocrinology department.
”1月20日，国家卫健委高级别专家组介绍，这种肺炎存在“人传人”的现象。
The pneumonia has a "person-to-person" phenomenon, a high-level panel of experts from the State Fitness Commission said on January 20.
当天，广东省卫健委通报了广东省首例输入性新冠肺炎的确诊病例。
On the same day, Guangdong Wei Jiancheng reported the first confirmed case of imported new crown pneumonia in Guangdong Province.
1月21日，武汉市汉口医院成为武汉市最早接收新冠肺炎患者的3家定点医院之一。
On January 21, Hankou Hospital in Wuhan City became one of the first three designated hospitals in Wuhan to receive patients with pneumonia.
郭亚兵所在的广东南方医科大学南方医院，也在同一天成为新冠肺炎定点医院。
Guo Yabing's Southern Hospital of Guangdong Medical University also became the New Crown Pneumonia Hospital on the same day.
南方医院呼吸科主治医师肖冠华已经预感到自己可能要去支援，他跟妻子散步时，问她，“武汉那边可能会需要人，我想去，你支不支持？” 妻子丢了一句话：“你要是不去，就不是你了。
Xiao Guanhua, the respiratory doctor at the Southern Hospital, had a presentiment that he might need help. He asked her as he walked with his wife, "Wuhan may need people, I want to go, do you support it?" His wife lost a sentence: "If you do not go, it is not you.
”汉口医院从1月21日起，把将近200个非肺炎病人清空，一夜之间开了10个发热门诊。
Hankou Hospital started emptying nearly 200 patients with non-pneumonia on January 21 and opened 10 fever clinics overnight.
”吕清泉说，“当天晚上，接了400个发热病人。
"Lu Qingquan said." That night, 400 fever sufferers were taken.
第二天1200人，第3天1500人。
1200 on day two, 1,500 on day three.
”大量病人涌向医院，担心感染的护工离开了，行政人员临时充当清洁工和搬运工。
Large numbers of patients poured into hospitals, administrative staff temporarily acting as cleaners and porters, fearing the departure of infected nurses.
吕清泉最担心的问题也出现了：陆续有同事“中招”——感染新冠肺炎。
Lu Qingquan most worried about the problem also emerged: a succession of colleagues "Zhongquan" - infection with the new crown pneumonia.
“每倒一个人，意味着空位置需要有人来填。
"For every person emptied, it means someone needs to fill in the empty space.
”但吕清泉找不到人，“刚开始50岁以上的医生没让上一线的。
But Lu Qingquan couldn't find anyone. "Doctors over the age of 50 didn't let the line at first.
后来50多岁，快退休的医生全部都进来。
Then, in their fifties, all the retiring doctors came in.
”有时候他自己也必须挤进人满为患的发热门诊，处理纠纷。
Sometimes he himself has to cram into a crowded fever clinic to deal with disputes.
腊月廿九，他被一个70多岁老人揪着脖子要求看高血压，还有普通发烧的病人，由于恐慌要求住院。
On the 29th of December, he was asked to see hypertension by a 70-year-old man with a high blood pressure and a common fever.
“有的医生头天晚上还在值夜班抢救病人，第二天就住院。
"Some doctors were still on night shift to save patients the night before and were hospitalized the next day.
”吕清泉记得，他们经历了两次医务人员感染高峰，第一次是1月20日之前，第二次是1月21日至1月29日之间。
Mr. Lu recalls two peaks in medical infection, the first before January 20 and the second between January 21 and January 29.
第一批“中招”的医护人员，主要集中在呼吸科与重症医学科。
The first batch of "middle recruitment" medical personnel, mainly concentrated in the respiratory department and severe medicine.
“因为新的诊疗指南出来之前，我们可能无意识地增加了医务人员暴露风险。
"Because before new guidelines come out, we may unconsciously increase the risk of medical exposure.
后来，第二拨人又特别疲劳休息不够，身体抵抗力下降。
Later, the second group of people and special fatigue rest not enough, the body resistance to decline.
”吕清泉说，“我24小时手机不关机，最长纪录是5天4夜没睡。
"I don't turn off my cell phone for 24 hours, the longest record being five days, four nights without sleep," Lu said.
”1月23日，连续工作21天的吕清泉被院领导要求强制休息半天，“手机关机，天塌下来，你不管它。
On January 23, Lu Qingquan, who worked 21 consecutive days, was ordered by hospital officials to take a half-day off.
”但吕清泉没关掉手机，他给“中招”的医生打电话，电话那头的医生说：“我一旦好了，要立刻返回岗位。
But Lu didn't turn off his cell phone. He called the doctor at the other end of the line and said, "Once I get well, I want to go back to work immediately.
”吕清泉听得直流泪。
Lu Qingquan wept as he heard this.
那时候，支援武汉的广东省医疗队已经开始“备战”。
At that time, the Guangdong medical team supporting Wuhan had begun to "prepare for war."
除夕夜，有人只在年夜饭的餐桌上吃了两块三文鱼；有人到了武汉之后才跟母亲打电话说自己来了一线，母亲哭了；有人找了个借口说“有一台手术要做”，便匆匆回到单位，至今还瞒着父母；有人把银行卡、支付宝密码记在本子上，留给家人。
On New Year's Eve, someone ate only two salmon at the dinner table. When someone arrived in Wuhan, they telephoned their mother that they were on the line, and the mother cried.
有人捧着东拼西凑做成的两束花前来送行，告别时有人哭了。
Someone came to see them off with two bunches of flowers pieced together, and someone cried as they said goodbye.
大年初一凌晨，医疗队126名医护人员抵达武汉时，天正下着小雨，室外温度零下5℃，很多人没提前备好羽绒服，有的带着西服就来了。
Early in the morning, 126 medical personnel of the medical team arrived in Wuhan, it was raining, outdoor temperature minus 5 degrees Celsius, many people did not prepare a down jacket, some with a suit came.
当天晚上，郭亚兵前去汉口医院，准备接手的是一个拥有39个床位的病区。
That night, Guo went to Hankou Hospital to take over a 39-bed ward.
但第二天上午交接时，“变了——80张病床！”2月25日，武汉市汉口医院负责物品搬运的人。
But the next morning, the handover, "changed - 80 beds!" February 25, Wuhan Hankou Hospital in charge of the removal of goods.
中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄我们这些人来对了其实，广东省医疗队已经是第三批支援汉口医院的医疗队。
Zhongqing Pao Zhongqing net trainee reporter Li Qiang / We came to the fact that Guangdong Medical Team is the third medical team to support Hankou Hospital.
吕清泉告诉记者，1月21日，武汉市中心医院曾派医疗队支援过，但1月29日便离开了。
Lu Qingquan told reporters January 21, Wuhan city central hospital had sent medical teams to support, but January 29 left.
1月24日，海军军医大学医疗队也赶赴汉口医院，但2月2日转战火神山医院。
On 24 January, the medical team of the Military Medical University of the Navy also travelled to Hankou Hospital, but on 2 February it was transferred to Mount Huoshen Hospital.
汉口医院已经守了很久，损失惨重。
Hankou Hospital has been waiting for a long time and suffered heavy losses.
“他们的院领导好几个都倒下了。
"Several of their court leaders have fallen.
” 郭亚兵向记者回忆，“他们看到援军来了，眼泪都下来了。
"When they saw the reinforcements coming, tears came down," Guo recalled to reporters.
”最后，郭亚兵接手时数了数，“可能也就六七个医生，不到20个护士。
"Finally, Guo has taken over a number of hours," probably just six or seven doctors and less than 20 nurses.
他们真的管不过来。
They really can't handle it.
”“每个病房都住得满满当当。
"" Every ward is full.
”护士长李利说，“当时护士很疲劳，危重病人多，整个病区脏乱差。
"Nurses were very tired, there were many critically ill people and the whole area was dirty," said Li Li, the head nurse.
”“我们这些人来对了。
"We have come to the right place.
” 李利说。
'he said.
工作开始调整，“这种时候不是进去的人越多越好，减少感染率，要最少的人进去才合适。
Work began to adjust. "The more people you don't get in at this time, the better, the lower the infection rate, the less fit to get in."
” 医疗队实行弹性排班，轮休保证医护人员每周有3天休息时间，并将80个病床进行ABC分区管理。
The medical team operates flex-shift schedules, with medical staff provided with three rest days a week and 80 beds managed by the ABC Division.
这个医院，虽然迎来了广州三甲医院的“精英”，但匮乏的医疗资源，让大家很头疼。
This hospital, although welcomed the "elite" of Guangzhou Sanjia Hospital, but the lack of medical resources, let everyone very headache.
11位检验科的医生，由于医院达不到进行核酸检测的标准，他们只能临时充当起“清洁工”“司机”“搬运工”；重症医学科的医生只能在由普通病房临时改造的病房里抢救病人；那些在三甲医院顺手就能够找到的医疗器材，这里很难找到；郭亚兵至今没在医院里见到ECMO（体外生命支持）。
Eleven laboratory doctors, unable to meet the standards for nucleic acid testing, have had to serve temporarily as "cleaners," "drivers" and "porters"; physicians in intensive care can only rescue patients in wards temporarily adapted from general wards; medical devices that are readily available in triple A hospitals are hard to find; and Guo has yet to see ECMO in a hospital.
重症医学科医生吴凤遇到一例呼吸困难患者，需要做胸腔积液穿刺引流术，但找不到配套的引流管，最后找了一根尿管，通过改造接口也达到很好的引流效果。
Wu Feng, an intensive care physician, encountered a patient with dyspnea and needed to perform pleural effusion and drainage, but could not find a suitable drainage tube.
郭亚兵做的第一步就是改造病区。
Guo's first step was to reform the area.
提到当年在小汤山医院，他最多的记忆也是与“感染控制”有关。
Referring to that year in Xiaotangshan Hospital, his most memory is also related to "infection control."
“汉口医院平时不是按照传染病医院来管理，病人乱串，病人家属乱串，完全是开放的病房。
"Hankou Hospital is not usually managed according to the infectious disease hospital, patients random string, patients' families, is completely open wards.
”郭亚兵注意到，在仅有两道门与隔离区分开的办公室里，竟然有医生在这里吃饭，且不戴口罩。
"Guo noticed that in offices where only two doors were separated from the area of separation, doctors ate there and were not wearing masks.
缓冲区只是闸了3道木门，但门头上有空隙没被封死，且缓冲区没有装灯，每次只能够容下两个人穿脱防护服。
The buffer zone was just three wooden gates, but there was no gap in the front of the door and there was no light in the buffer zone, allowing only two people to wear protective clothing at a time.
“吃饭的办公室赶紧清掉，缓冲区重新做，门口打胶全封死。
"The dining room was quickly cleaned, the buffer zone redone and the door glued to death.
”在改造缓冲区的时候，郭亚兵遇到一个修门的师傅，在将前两扇门改造好之后，最接近污染区的那扇门死活不愿干，连锁也不愿意装好，“他说你给我1万块钱一天我也不干。
"As he worked on the buffer zone, Guo encountered a master mending the door. After remodeling the first two doors, the door closest to the contaminated area remained closed, and the chain would not install it.
”在广东医疗队接管的混乱的第一天，这个病区就送走了5位病人。
On the first day of chaos as Guangdong's medical team took over, five patients were evacuated from the sick area.
郭亚兵记得，“有一个从急诊科直接推到我们这个地方，实际上已经不行了。
"There was a place where we were pushed directly from the emergency department and it was practically dead," Guo remembers.
” “很无助！你看着病人倒下，没多少办法。
"Very helpless! There is little you can do to watch the patient fall.
”郭亚兵感觉到无可奈何。
"Guo felt helpless.
第一天下来，有的护士吓哭了，有的ICU医生夜里做了噩梦，有的吃下安眠药入睡。
The first day down, some nurses cry, some ICU doctors have nightmares, some eat sleeping pills sleep.
“来的时候雄心壮志、豪情万丈，咚地一下掉到冰窟窿里去。
"When I came I had ambition and ambition, and I fell into the hole in the ice.
”郭亚兵说，起初大家有些悲观。
"People were a little pessimistic at first," Guo said.
曾跟随郭亚兵支援过小汤山医院的护士长李利也觉得，“它传染性太强了，而且潜伏期太长，这是比‘非典’更可怕的地方。
"It's too contagious and the incubation period is too long. It's more terrifying than SARS," said Li Li, a nurse who has been with Guo.
”郭亚兵的印象里，17年前在小汤山医院，“所有的后勤供给给你安排得好好的，你管好自己不感染，干好活儿。
"Guo's impression was that 17 years ago at Xiaotangshan Hospital," all the logistics were well arranged for you.
现在好多事情都要自己干。
Now a lot of things to do on their own.
”在如今的病区里，护士成了护工、清洁工、送餐员，要负责污染区的垃圾清理、拖地开窗、端水送饭喂元宵、擦屎倒尿换窗帘，甚至搬运四五十公斤重的氧气瓶。
In today's sick areas, nurses work as janitors, cleaners and messengers, cleaning rubbish, mopping windows, carrying water and rice for the Lantern Festival, washing excrement and urinating for curtains, and even carrying 40 to 50 kilograms of oxygen cylinders.
一位1996年出生的小护士，人生中第一次搬氧气瓶。
A nurse born in 1996 carried oxygen cylinders for the first time in her life.
入行6年的护士张志博每天拉着小车要送20个氧气瓶，整个病区每天至少需要搬六七十瓶。
Six-year-old nurse Zhang Zhibo delivers 20 oxygen cylinders a day with her small car, carrying at least 60 or 70 bottles a day throughout the area.
汉口医院也有中心供氧的管道，但由于耗氧量达到往常的10倍，管道氧压不足。
Hankou Hospital also has a central oxygen supply pipeline, but because oxygen consumption reached 10 times the usual level, the pipeline oxygen pressure is insufficient.
武汉市汉口医院急诊科门口摆放的空氧气瓶。
Empty oxygen cylinders placed in front of the emergency department of Hankou Hospital in Wuhan.
中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄接管病区的第二天，郭亚兵就开始寻找氧气。
The day after the Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net trainee journalist Li Qiang / She took over the sick area, Guo Yabing began to look for oxygen.
郭亚兵去急诊留观室拉氧气瓶的时候，却感受到另一种“可怕”的场景。
Guo Yabing went to the emergency room to pull oxygen cylinders, but feel another "terrible" scene.
“留观室真是躺得满地都是，很悲壮。
"The observation room is really lying all over the floor, very sad.
”郭亚兵第一天到达汉口医院时并未来过这里，他透过一扇玻璃门看到急诊留观室里：有的坐在凳子上，有的躺到简易床上，有的在地上，全都是病人，也收不进去，最多只能打吊针。
"When Guo arrived at Hankou Hospital on the first day and visited the area in the future, he saw the emergency ward through a glass door: some sat on stools, some lay on makeshift beds, some were on the ground, all were sick and could not be taken in.
室外，条件好的把吊针挂在私家车里，条件差的就在三轮车上杵个棍。
Outdoor, the conditions are good hanging in the private car, the poor conditions on the tricycle pestle and stick.
那天晚上，郭亚兵拉了十几瓶氧气，仅解了一时之渴。
That night, Guo Yabing pulled a dozen bottles of oxygen, only to quench his thirst.
接下来的几天，凡是领导下来慰问，医疗队便提出希望解决氧气瓶的问题；弄来三五十台家用制氧机，减少管道氧气的用量；改善储氧面罩，提高用氧效率。
In the days that followed, the medical team offered to solve the problem of oxygen cylinders by sending in thirty or fifty home oxygen machines to reduce the amount of oxygen used in the pipes, improving the oxygen mask and improving the oxygen efficiency.
“语言，药物，氧气，是这里治疗的三大法宝。
"Language, drugs, oxygen, are the three great healers here.
”吴凤在一次值夜班时，遇到过一个老人，陪护家属无法安抚病人情绪。
Wu Feng met an elderly man on a night shift, and accompanying family members could not soothe her patients.
但只要医生护士在旁边不停地跟他讲话，老人的血氧饱和度就可以达到85%，但只要稍微走一会儿，“回来一看又只有74%”。
But as long as the doctor and nurse keep talking to him, the blood oxygen saturation of the elderly can reach 85 percent, but after a short walk, "it's only 74 percent."
吴凤说那天晚上的大部分时间，她都站在老人的病床前说，反复说，“没事的，你放心好了。
Wu Feng said that for most of that night, she stood in front of the old man's bed and said, "It's OK. You can make your mind easy.
”但白班时医生都很忙，没人能够像晚上一样陪他说话。
But the doctors were busy during the day, and no one could talk to him as at night.
次日傍晚，老人走了。
The next evening the old man went away.
她最后连她想喝的水都没喝到其实汉口医院并非没有ICU病房，这里有一个拥有16张床位的外科ICU病房，但被专家们判了“死刑”，至今空置未用。
She didn't even get the water she wanted to drink. Hankou Hospital is not without ICU wards. There is a 16-bed surgical ICU ward, but experts have sentenced her to death.
“呼吸机上不上去，氧压还是不够。
"Oxygen pressure isn't enough for the ventilator.
更严重的问题是，病房通风不行，会造成很大的威胁。
The more serious problem is that the ventilation in the ward is not good, which can cause a great threat.
之前他们ICU的医生，插管插了3个病人，结果7个医生6个‘中招’。
Three patients had been intubated by their ICU doctor, and six out of seven doctors had done it.
”如今一个月过去了，医疗队并未有人感染。
Now a month has passed and no one in the medical team has been infected.
“至少它是同一个呼吸道的疾病，它预防的方式一样。
"At least it's the same respiratory disease and it's prevented the same way.
”郭亚兵说，“非典”时他们做到了“零感染”，虽然这次病毒不同于“非典”，比“非典”传染性更强，更狡猾，但他第一个目标还是零感染，带着大家平平安安来，平平安安回。
"Guo said they achieved" zero infection "during SARS, and although the virus was different from SARS and was more infectious and cunning than SARS, his first goal was to have zero infection and bring everyone home in peace.
从大年初一，医疗队到武汉的那天，高强度的“防护培训”就开始了。
From the New Year's Day, the medical team to Wuhan on the day, the high-intensity "protection training" began.
医疗队花了半天时间训练穿脱防护服，并要求他们两两互相监督。
The medical team spent half a day training in protective clothing and asked them to monitor each other.
这是郭亚兵“非典”时汲取的经验：防护要做严格，但心态要放轻松，“该吃吃该玩玩该睡睡”。
This is the "SARS" Guo Yabing learned from the experience: protection to do strict, but mind to relax, "should eat play should sleep."
真正走进病房，护士张志博总感觉“防护服是不是在漏风？”在郭亚兵看来，“怕，我们就放心了。
Really walked into the ward, nurses Zhang Zhibo always feel "protective clothing is not leaking?" In Guo's eyes, "afraid, we are relieved.
就怕你不怕，慢慢油条了，胆子大了，那种往往容易中招。
Afraid you are not afraid, slowly greasy, bold, that kind of often easy to move.
”“走路跟企鹅似的，衣服全是汗，护目镜上全是雾，眼睛看不清，听力也会受到影响，所以第一天基本就是靠吼。
"" Walking like a penguin, his clothes sweaty, his goggles full of fog, his eyes blurred, his hearing impaired, so his first day was basically a roar.
”张志博告诉记者，戴着3层手套让手指失去了灵活度，第一天扎针的成功率只有60%左右，“还是有些受打击的”。
Zhang told reporters wearing three layers of gloves made fingers lose their flexibility, and the success rate for first-day stitches was only about 60 percent.
工作不几日，几个医生选择了剃成光头，而给他们剃头的同行护士，在此之前只给她家的萨摩耶犬理过毛。
A few days later, several doctors chose to shave their heads and shave their fellow nurses, who had previously sopped only their Samoyed dog.
郭亚兵头发早已花白，在这支队伍里，他是年龄最大的。
Guo Yabing's hair has long been gray, in this line, he is the oldest.
像采集咽拭子这类暴露风险高的任务，他总揽在手上，“你们年轻，我来，我有经验”。
For high-risk tasks like swabbing, he holds hands, "You're young, I'm here, I'm experienced."
有一天他取了20个咽拭子。
One day he took 20 swabs.
疫情一天天地好转，发热门诊的门诊量也降了下来，病区的情况趋于稳定。
The epidemic is improving day by day, the number of outpatient visits to the fever clinic has fallen and the situation in the affected areas has stabilized.
病房的垃圾被清理干净了，病区氧气瓶的供应，也从最初的四处搜寻，到每天在固定的位置搬用。
The garbage in the ward was cleaned, and the supply of oxygen cylinders in the sick area was searched from its original location to its daily use in a fixed location.
前两天医疗队的群里，有人说“这个星期好像没怎么走人了。
In the medical team two days ago, someone said, "I don't seem to be leaving much this week.
”李利记得，起初医疗队到的时候，这个病区平均每天要送走两位病人，“这样的情况维持了一周左右，后来就一周去世一个。
"Li remembered that when the medical team first arrived, the area was carrying an average of two patients a day." It lasted about a week, and then died a week later.
”吴凤也有同样的感受，院方已经不再催着病区接收新病人，一些新住进医院的病人，症状也相对较轻。
Wu felt the same way, with hospital authorities no longer pressing for new patients to be admitted, and some patients admitted to hospitals with relatively mild symptoms.
她见过氧疗3周、从大白肺到肺部纤维化完全吸收的68岁的病人，也见过48岁的退役老兵，在无法住进医院之前在家中靠制氧机自救，住进医院后肺部开始慢慢恢复。
She saw 68-year-old patients who had been fully absorbed in oxygen therapy for three weeks, from white lung to pulmonary fibrosis, and 48-year-old war veterans who had helped themselves to oxygen machines at home before being admitted to hospital, where their lungs slowly began to recover.
吕清泉在连续工作超过50天以后，此前“中招”倒下的同事逐渐出院，呼吸科的医生开始回来了，向他申请上一线。
After more than 50 days of continuous work, his collapsed colleague was released from the hospital, and the ventilator began to return, applying to him for the first place.
武汉的天气渐渐暖起来，病房也是。
Wuhan gradually warm up the weather, the ward is also.
比如有人走路去医院时，在酒店门口遇到陌生人，说“我送你们去医院吧”；比如在病区，陪床家属会在空闲时，帮忙搬运氧气瓶，清理垃圾；比如突然听到一个身体慢慢恢复的病人叫出自己的名字；比如出院的小姑娘会留下一幅画着樱花和热干面的画；再比如当一个陪床家属在护士下班时问，“你明天还上班吗？”眼神里满是期待。
For example, if someone walks to a hospital and meets a stranger in front of the hotel, saying, "I'll take you to the hospital." For example, in the sick area, the bedmate's family helps carry the oxygen bottle and clears the garbage.
护士张志博最近送走了一位50多岁的病人。
Nurse Zhang Zhibo recently sent away a patient in his fifties.
那是个危重患者，上着无创呼吸机和心电监护。
It was a critical patient with a noninvasive ventilator and electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring.
张志博看到她的时候，她的血氧饱和度不到70%，心率为107次。
When Zhang saw her, her blood oxygen saturation was less than 70 percent and her heart rate was 107.
交接班时，同事告诉他，前一天晚上刚通过胸外按压的方式把她抢救回来。
During the shift, colleagues told him she had been rescued by chest compressions the night before.
交接班后，张志博便去给其他病人输液，一会儿有同事喊他，“你的床（病人）要喝水”。
After the transfer, Zhang Zhibo to other patients infusion, some colleagues called him, "your bed (patient) to drink water."
病区里只有开水，张志博拿着杯子接了一杯开水，端在手里用勺子搅着。
There was only boiling water in the sick area. Zhang Zhibo took a cup of boiling water and stirred it with a spoon.
透过护目镜，他看到水还冒着热气，条件反射般地想用嘴吹一下。
Through the goggles, he saw that the water was still steaming and reflexively tried to blow it through his mouth.
勺子又在空气中晾了一会儿。
The spoon hung in the air for a while longer.
张志博把扣在她嘴上的呼吸面罩取了下来，水送到了她嘴边。
Zhang Zhibo took the respirator that was fastened to her mouth and the water was delivered to her mouth.
“她喝了一下，说‘哦好烫，好烫’。
"She drank a little and said, 'Oh, hot, hot'.
”张志博赶忙把她的面罩扣回去，继续让水在杯子里晾着。
Zhang Zhibo quickly pulled back her mask and continued to let the water hang in the glass.
晾了一会儿再喂时，她仍然觉得烫。
She still felt hot when she hung it up for a while.
“晾一下我再喝。
Hang on until I drink it.
”这个病人说。
"said the invalid.
张志博把呼吸面罩又扣了回去，看了看血氧饱和度，80%，“比我接班时好很多”。
Zhang Zhibo pulled back the respirator and looked at the blood oxygen saturation of 80%, "much better than when I took over."
放下杯子，张志博去写护理记录单。
Put the glass down, Zhang Zhibo to write the nursing notes.
过了一会儿，同事告诉他：“她现在（心率）只有50几次。
"After a while, his colleague told him," She has only had 50 times.
”张志博感觉情况不对劲，立马往病人床前走，并让同事帮忙叫管床医生。
Feeling that something was wrong, Zhang walked up to the patient's bed and asked a colleague to call the doctor.
“我过去看她，心率已明显慢下来了。
"I went over to see her and my heart rate noticeably slowed down.
56次。
56 times.
然后我们就开始抢救。
And then we started saving it.
” 最终她还是走了。
At last she went away.
她走后，张志博摸了摸那个40分钟之前还盛着热水的杯子，水已经凉了。
After she left, Zhang Zhibo touched the glass, which had been filled with hot water 40 minutes ago. The water was cold.
“她最后连她想喝的水都没喝到。
"She didn't even get the water she wanted to drink.
”张志博有点儿自责，“哎，这杯水我应该给她准备成温水。
Zhang Zhibo scolded himself a little. "Well, I should have prepared the glass for her in warm water.
”中青报·中青网见习记者 李强/摄在污染区里，原则上不允许有人陪床，但医院一直都有部分病人存在家属陪床的情况。
Li Qiang, a trainee reporter for the China Youth Daily, was not allowed to be accompanied by a bed in principle in the polluted area.
女儿“陪床”80多岁的父亲，死活不肯离开；一个意识障碍的男人确诊后，老伴儿宁可感染了，也不愿离开。
Daughter in his 80s father, refused to leave; a conscious man diagnosed, the old man would rather be infected than leave.
“有很多现实的问题。
"There are many real problems.
”呼吸内科副主任医师胡国栋告诉记者，“很多危重的患者，除了我们医疗积极的救治以外，有一个很好的家属去陪伴也是很好的。
"Many critically ill patients, in addition to our active medical treatment, have a good family to accompany is also good," Hu Guodong, deputy director of respiratory medicine, told reporters.
”但医生们都明白，陪床者很可能是流动的传染源，胡国栋说问题的根源还是医护人员人手不足。
But doctors know that bed-mates can be a source of infection, and Mr. Hu says the problem stems from a shortage of health-care workers.
大多数病人并没有家属陪床。
Most patients are not accompanied by family members.
护士长李利说，“很多病人都是一家人得病，都在医院。
"A lot of the patients are family members who are in the hospital," said the head nurse Li Li.
”郭亚兵但求能够把队伍平安带回，肖冠华希望疫情早点儿结束，他想看看每天自己叫着名字却看不到面容的同事，到底长什么样子，张志博想回家看父母。
"Guo wants to bring the team back safely, Xiao Guanhua hopes the outbreak will end sooner, and he wants to see colleagues who are calling their names but not their faces every day.
东道主吕清泉也盼望能摘下口罩，看看这一群救兵。
Host Lu Qingquan also hopes to take off the mask to see this group of rescuers.
他盼望着疫情在3月初结束，他要带他们去武大看樱花，“3月初正是武汉最美的时候。
He is looking forward to the end of the epidemic in early March, he will take them to Wuda to see cherry blossoms, "early March is the most beautiful time in Wuhan.
”护士的陪护任务很重。
The nurse's escort was heavy.
一天晚上，李利跟女儿打电话时，女儿说自己的作业写完了，要等妈妈回来的时候再对答案，李利哭了。
One night when Li Li was on the phone with her daughter, she said she had finished her homework. She would not answer the question until her mother came back.
李利很少有摘掉口罩的时候，除了一个人在房间，或者阳光好的时候，爬上酒店空旷的天台，就像17年前在小汤山医院一块空旷的草地上。
Li Li rarely takes off his mask except when he is alone in his room or when the sun is bright. He climbs on the empty roof of a hotel like an open lawn at Xiaotangshan Hospital 17 years ago.
医疗队住的酒店离长江只有3000米，他们却没去过。
The hotel where the medical team lives is only 3000 meters from the Changjiang River, but they have not been there.
那个被高楼大厦环绕的天台成为许多医护人员放风的地方，有人散步，有人听歌，有人闲聊，有人晾晒衣裳，有人在此第一次见到雪花从天空飘落。
The rooftop, surrounded by high-rise buildings, became a sort of outdoor playground for many health-care workers, ranging from walking to listening to songs to gossiping to airing clothes, to seeing snow falling from the sky for the first time.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们接管了“重灾区”。
They took over the disaster area.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们接管了“重灾区”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; They took over & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "每开一个病区，一天就收满了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; every day spent in a sick area is full.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
