我在武汉街头入睡，请别对着我的被子浇水。
I sleep on the street in Wuhan, please don't water my quilt.
向治霖。
To treat Lin.
南风窗                      。
South Window.
南风窗。
South Window.
冷静的力量。
The power of coolness.
被冲水的通道和他们的行李，拍摄时间在2月24日下午7点左右（图/南风窗记者 向治霖）接连四天，预测天气的软件显示，武汉将有持久的阴雨。
The flushed passageway and their luggage were filmed around 7: 00 pm on Feb. 24 (pictured above / South Window reporter showers) for the fourth day in a row. Software predicting the weather shows that there will be persistent overcast rain in Wuhan.
然而，眼前的雨还没下时，高强住的地方就湿透了。
However, before the rain came down, the place where Gao Qiang lived was soaked to the skin.
他住在武昌区一个地下通道。
He lives in an underground passage in Wuchang district.
2月24日下午2点多，通道里来了十多个人，他们接上水管，冲洗了整个地面。
At about 2 p.m. on 24 February, more than a dozen people arrived in the corridor, hooked up the pipes and washed the entire floor.
差不多一小时后，冲水的人走了，高强下去“抢救”他的行李。
Almost an hour later, the flushing man left, Gao Qiang went down to "rescue" his luggage.
他的行李全湿了，包括铺地上的床单、被子，还有在两天前，“红十字会送的棉大衣”。
His luggage was all wet, including the sheets and quilts on the floor, and the "cotton overcoat from the Red Cross" two days ago.
他舍不得棉大衣，拿出来晒在出入口的铁杆上。
He was loath to take out his coat and bathe it on the iron pole at the entrance.
通道里住了7个人，他们滞留在武汉，又交不起钱住旅馆。
There were seven people living in the passageway. They stayed in Wuhan and could not afford to pay for a hotel.
冲水的时候，眼看着被盖衣物要被淋湿，但他们不敢上前，因为“来的人穿着执法人员的制服”。
While flushing, they watched the coverings get wet, but they were afraid to come forward because "the people who came were wearing the uniforms of law enforcement officers."
高强说：“现在是特殊时期，我们都能理解，但是我们这群人，哪怕在通道里住着，也比没有地方住在外乱跑要强啊”。
"These are special times that we can all understand," Gao said. "But it is better for us to live in a passageway than to have nowhere to live."
滞留武汉高强在通道住了10天左右，他是来武汉务工的，在工地上做些零活。
Detention Wuhan Gao Qiang lived in the passageway for about 10 days, he came to Wuhan to do odd jobs on the construction site.
工地放假后，宿舍也清空了，但他不想回家。
After the vacation, the dormitory was empty, but he did not want to go home.
做了一年，没挣到钱，他只想早点开工。
After working for a year without earning money, he just wanted to start work early.
没想到，1月23日武汉“封城”。
Unexpectedly, January 23, Wuhan "closed city."
“这下真回不去了”，高强苦笑说。
"This really can't go back," Gao Qiang said with a wry smile.
他先是住在小旅馆，一天收费30元，但是饭菜越来越贵，“每天最少用掉100块”。
He first stayed at a small hotel for 30 yuan a day, but the food became more expensive, "using at least 100 yuan a day."
他很快就住不起了。
He could not afford to live any longer.
他想了两个办法，一是退了房，露宿街头，省下的一天房费，能多换一些泡面。
He thought of two ways, one is to quit the house, sleeping on the street, save a day's room expenses, can change some more bubble noodles.
二是找工作，他猜想，现在的武汉，肯定缺少劳动力。
The second is to find work, he suspects, Wuhan, there is certainly a shortage of labor.
他从汉口开始走，一路见到社区就闯，问人需不需要临时工？在路上看见环卫工，他也会问有没有工作机会？“没有。
He started walking from Hankou and barged into the community, asking people if they needed casual laborers, and when he saw sanitation workers on the road, he asked if there were any job opportunities.
”“不需要。
"" Not really.
”他不知道怎么来到地下通道的。
He did not know how to get to the underpass.
高强说，他只记得腿走肿了，因为躺在冰冷的地上，他的腰快直不起来，但还是撑着继续走。
Gao Qiang said he only remembered that his legs were swollen because he was lying on the cold ground and his waist could not straighten up.
到了通道，别人看他可怜，给了他一张床垫。
When he reached the passage, he was pitied and given a mattress.
他就这么住了下来。
And so he lived.
黄鹤楼景区的照明依然充足，灯光包围的古式建筑群，在日暮淡薄时分外好看，只是不见一个游客。
The Yellow Crane Tower area is still well illuminated, surrounded by lights of the ancient buildings, in the dusk of the beautiful, but not a tourist.
2月24日下午6点多，我到了通道下面，冲水过后3个小时，水依然在地上流淌，水管被丢在了阶梯上。
On 24 February, at around 6 p.m., I reached the underpass and, three hours after the flush, the water was still flowing on the ground and the pipes had been dumped on the stairs.
通道就在黄鹤楼公园的西门边，马路对面是辛亥革命武昌首义纪念馆。
The passageway is just west of Yellow Crane Tower Park. Across the road is the first memorial hall of Wuchang Revolution.
通道是住不了了，他们只好在公园附近的小树林游荡。
The passageway could no longer live, so they had to roam the woods near the park.
方建“救”回了一个桶和一个包，那是他吃饭的东西，或者说“要饭”的工具。
Fang Jian "saved" a bucket and a bag, which he ate, or "asked for food" tool.
他是一个职业乞丐，从1998年开始乞讨。
He was a professional beggar and had been begging since 1998.
他是安徽阜阳人，今年37岁。
He is from Fuyang, Anhui Province. He is 37 years old.
他右边的袖管空空荡荡，是在15岁那年，做手术截肢了的。
The cuff on his right was empty and he had surgery to amputate it when he was 15.
医生说是里骨头坏死，“现在肯定能治了，但那个时候没有条件，也没有钱去治”，他说。
The doctors said it was bone necrosis. "It's definitely curable now, but then there were no conditions and no money to treat it," he said.
冲水的时候，方建在公园里游荡，不时凑上去看一眼，“他们那些人，接了水龙头，就对着被子冲”。
When flushing, Fang built in the park loitering, from time to time to take a look, "their people, answered the faucet, rushed to the quilt."
他的家当全在下面，但他不敢阻止，他说：“他们这群人，对我们做事，从来不讲理由。
His fortune was all below him, but he dared not prevent it, saying: They are people who do things to us without reason.
说实在的，我们都是下等人”。
To tell the truth, we are all inferior.
湿透的行李（图/南风窗记者 向治霖）另一个滞留者盛宽，和方建是安徽老乡。
Soaking Luggage (Photo / Window of the South Window) Another resident, Sheng Kuan, and Fang Jian are villagers of Anhui Province.
他也在武汉做临工生活，“封城”后无处可去。
He also works in Wuhan as a temporary life, "closure" after nowhere to go.
老谭在这群人中年纪大些，经历也更曲折，他是在汕头打工，春节前要回到老家襄阳，但在经过武汉时被困住了。
Tan, who works in Shantou and wants to return to his hometown Xiangyang before the Spring Festival, was stranded in Wuhan.
老谭早先把钱都寄回了家，只按正常预计留下了一点盘缠，这下完全不够了。
Tan earlier sent the money home, only a normal expected left a little entanglement, this is not enough.
他给家人报平安时，家人说要给他打钱，但他拒绝了，“本来就没几个钱，自己能撑就撑过去”。
When he told his family that he was safe, his family said he would give him money, but he refused.
高强说，家里还不知道他在“流浪”，老家里有个70多岁的老母亲，幸好有亲哥哥照顾，但她知道了一定会担心。
Gao Qiang said that the family did not know he was "wandering", the old family has a 70-year-old mother, fortunately there are brothers to take care of, but she knows will worry.
高强不忍对家里说。
Gao Qiang couldn't bear to say to his family.
可是，钱已经用完了。
But the money was all gone.
高强还问前工友借了200块，没过几天又花光了。
Gao Qiang also asked his former workmate to borrow 200 yuan and spent it in a few days.
他每天盼着武汉“解封”的消息，但在各种传闻中，日子一天天往后拖。
He looked forward to the news that Wuhan "unsealed" every day, but in various rumors, the days later.
“再来一个月，我就真的撑不住了”，他说。
"Another month, I really can't do it," he said.
高强、方建和我交流时，老谭和盛宽拿着最后的泡面，去找医院接开水来泡，但在附近的医院，围起了路障，禁止他们进入。
Gao Qiang, Fang Jian and I exchange, old Tan and Sheng Kuan took the last bubble, went to the hospital to pick up boiling water to soak, but at the nearby hospital, surrounded the roadblock, prohibited them from entering.
他们来回走了一个多小时，才在一家儿童医院接到开水。
They walked back and forth for more than an hour before receiving boiling water at a children's hospital.
高强和方建，则一包泡面也没有，饿了一整天了。
Gao Qiang and Fang Jian, then a bag of foam noodles, hungry all day.
高强说，有个人开始在垃圾桶里找吃的，但是现在，只有医院的垃圾桶还有食物，“他捡了一份盒饭，别人只吃了一两口。
One man began to look for food in the garbage can, but now there is only food in the garbage can in the hospital. "He picked up a box of rice and people ate only one or two.
我看菜色还不错”，高强说，但他不敢吃，因为害怕有病毒。
I think the food is good, "Gao Qiang said, but he was afraid to eat it because he was afraid of a virus.
在垃圾桶找吃的这个人很年轻，今年27岁。
The man looking for food in the garbage can was very young, 27 years old.
他也在公园里，一个人远远坐在条凳上，他说自己去年9月来了武汉，一直没有工作，别的事他不愿意多说。
He was also in the park, sitting alone on a bench. He said he had come to Wuhan last September and had not had a job.
其实，他们很警惕外来的人。
In fact, they are very wary of outsiders.
在我叫的5人份外卖送达时，老谭和盛宽却迟迟不来。
Old Tan and Sheng Kuan didn't show up when the five people I ordered took out.
我和方建转了一圈，在马路边找到他们，招呼他们趁热吃饭。
I walked around with Fang Jian and found them by the roadside, greeting them to eat hot meals.
但他们连连拒绝，说是吃过了。
But they repeatedly refused, saying they had eaten.
盛宽吞吞吐吐讲出了原因，他担心又被拍照。
He stammered out the reason, fearing that he would be photographed again.
他们遇见过几波人了，有的给他们留下点东西，立刻就狂拍照片，“我一个大男人，有手有脚正常工作，只是遇到困难时期，就给我们曝光出去，太丢人了”。
They met several waves of people, some of them left something for them, and immediately took a photo madly. "I am a big man, I have hands and feet working normally.
确定不拍照片后，他们才放心，把饭菜端起来吃。
After making sure that no pictures were taken, they set their minds at rest and served the meal.
高强对我说：“要不是碰上病毒，我们也不会住在通道，现在还被人追着撵了出来。
Gao Qiang said to me: "If it had not been for the virus, we would not have lived in the passageway, but now they chased us out.
我们也想早点开工，正常上班、赚钱吃饭，这不是没有办法了吗？”救 援住的地方没有了，高强担心真的下雨，他们会更加困难。
We also want to start early, normal work, money to eat, this is no way to do it? "Help where there is no, Gao Qiang worried that really rain, they will be more difficult.
吃的东西也快没了，有钱也买不到。
They were running out of food and money was not available.
管理严格，小商店大多没开，超市又不对个人开放。
Management is strict, small shops are mostly closed and supermarkets are closed to individuals.
他们现在有的食物，还是前几天趁早买的，以及部分公益人士的赠予。
They now have some food they bought early the other day, as well as a gift from some of the public interest groups.
高强记得，前后大概来了3拨人。
Gao Qiang remembers that there were about three people around.
“第二拨人是2月21日来的，自称是红十字会的人，他们给的东西最多”，高强说，来的人给了他们一人7个口罩，嘱咐说每天都要戴着，还给他们发了垫子、被子，以及棉大衣——就是在3天后被淋湿的那些。
"The second group came on Feb. 21, claiming to be Red Cross, and they gave them the most," Gao said, adding that they were given seven masks to wear every day, cushions, quilts, and cotton overcoats -- the ones that got wet three days later.
每人还得了10桶左右的泡面。
Each of them got about 10 barrels of noodles.
第三拨人是民间志愿者，来的那天是2月23日，给了他们每人两盒盒饭。
The third group, a folk volunteer, arrived on February 23 and was given two boxes of rice each.
高强吃了一盒，留着另一盒第二天吃。
Gao Qiang ate one box and kept another for the next day.
为了节省开销，他们习惯了每天吃一顿，还都是在晚上吃。
In order to save money, they are used to eating one meal a day and all at night.
方建说，过道里不许生火，他们只好在晚上悄悄做，下面条。
Fang said that no fire was allowed in the hallway, so they had to do it quietly at night, spaghetti.
白天就在公园里走走，晒一天太阳。
Walk around the park during the day and have a day in the sun.
每天早上八九点有固定的人员会来给他们量体温、发口罩。
At 8: 00 a. m., regular people come to take their temperature and wear masks.
但他们说，这批人只是做做样子，来了就给最近的人量体温，旁边的人就拍照。
But they said the group was just a pose. When they arrived, they took the temperature of the nearest person and the people next to them took pictures.
泡面也只给一桶，给的时候又拍照，“表明做了工作，剩下的人就不管了”，方建说。
Bubble noodles are given only in a bucket, and when given a picture, "it shows that the work is done and the rest of the people are left behind," Fang said.
他们怀疑，对通道冲水的人，也是他们叫来的。
They suspected that it was they who washed on the passageway.
究竟是谁？对他们来说不重要，他们最大的问题，是解决眼下的困难。
Who is it? It doesn't matter to them, their biggest problem is to solve the current difficulties.
事情很快有了变化。
Things soon changed.
2月24日晚上10点，他们被人冲了水的消息，在一个志愿者群中传开。
At 10 p.m. on 24 February, news of the water being washed spread among a group of volunteers.
有人立刻组织起救援小队，在凌晨时分，六七人带着新的被子床单，赶到了黄鹤楼公园附近。
A rescue party was immediately set up, and in the early morning hours, six or seven men with new quilt sheets arrived near the Yellow Crane Tower Park.
然而，公园里一个人也没有。
However, there was no one in the park.
根据线索，志愿者在另一个通道找到了人，是方建和盛宽两位老乡。
According to the clues, the volunteers found people in another channel, Fang Jianhe and Sheng Kuan.
他们得了被子，有位独立纪录片导演提了一大袋零食，坚持让他们收下了。
They got quilts, and one independent documentary director insisted that they take a large bag of snacks.
2月24日晚，志愿者给流浪人员送被子（图/南风窗记者 向治霖）下午才抱怨过拍照的盛宽，这次没有拒绝镜头，“我这个人分得清好坏，你们一片好心，我就无所谓了”，他解释道。
On the night of Feb. 24, volunteers gave homeless people quilts (pictured / South Window reporter giving Lin treatment) until the afternoon to complain about the breadth of the photos, this time without refusing the camera. "I can distinguish between good and bad, you are kind, I don't care," he explained.
纪录片导演是个年轻女孩，她盘腿坐在过道，和他们面对着面。
The documentary director was a young girl who sat cross-legged in the hallway, facing them.
她准备了自己的床单，和他们一起，在通道里过了一夜。
She prepared her own sheets and spent the night in the passage with them.
盛宽终于打开了话匣子，笑着讲述他的故事。
At last Sheng-chuang opened the box and told his story with a smile.
沉默的时候，导演的一位男性同伴突然唱歌：“把我的悲伤留给自己，你的美丽让你带走。
Silence, the director of a male partner suddenly sing: "Save my sadness to yourself, your beauty let you take away.
”盛宽很是捧场，拍手连叫“好，好”。
"Shengkang is a very wide-held, clapping hands and shouting" good, good.
遗憾的是，高强、老谭等5人，始终没有找到。
Unfortunately, Gao Qiang, Lao Tan and other five people, has not been found.
天黑以后，他们就收拾东西，各自找各自的“床”，没人知道在哪儿。
After dark, they gathered their things and looked for their beds. No one knew where they were.
幸好，在这一晚，依然没有真的下雨。
Luckily, it didn't really rain that night.
一个安稳觉第二天，2月25日下午，我在黄鹤楼公园找到了高强。
The next afternoon, Feb. 25, I found Gao Qiang in Yellow Crane Tower Park.
他昨晚在桥下睡了一夜，还好天气暖和，他的外套勉强够用。
He slept under the bridge last night, but it was warm and his coat was barely enough.
后半夜时，路上的响动吵醒了他，他就去了一趟江边，把棉大衣重新洗了，预备晾干了穿。
In the middle of the night the noise of the road woke him, and he went to the river, washed his coat anew, and prepared to dry it.
“可惜呀！”他直叹气摇头，中午的时候他摸了下衣服，感觉快干了，就在桥下补了个觉。
"Pitifully!" he sighed and shook his head. At noon he felt his clothes dry and took a nap under the bridge.
但睡醒起来，棉大衣不知被谁收走了。
But wake up, the cotton overcoat was somehow taken away by someone.
他又是一天没吃饭，回到了公园闲逛，其他几个人也回来了。
He had not eaten for another day, returned to stroll around the park, and several others returned.
志愿者获得消息后，立刻开始找被子，把昨晚漏掉的4个人补上。
When the volunteers got the news, they immediately began to look for quilts to make up for the four people who had left out last night.
在这一天，官方发布了新政策，“对因离鄂通道管控滞留在湖北、生活存在困难的外地人员，由当地政府及有关方面提供救助服务”。
On the same day, the government issued a new policy, "to control the exit from Hubei province stranded in difficult living conditions, the local government and related parties to provide relief services.
也就是说，他们可以获得官方的救助。
In other words, they have access to official assistance.
只不过，政策暂时还没落实。
However, the policy has not yet been implemented.
方建说，他遇到过一次管理人员，但不是问他要不要救助，而是提醒他这里不能住，叫他走开。
Mr. Fang said he met an executive once, but instead of asking if he wanted help, he was reminded that he could not live here and asked him to go away.
就算政府给他安排地方住，他也不想去，作为职业乞丐，他很排斥接受救济，因为在2004年时，他在浙江被收容过。
Even if the government arranged a place for him, he did not want to go. As a professional beggar, he was loath to accept relief because he had been admitted to Zhejiang in 2004.
“关了我几天，吃吃不好，住住不好，还让我交了300块钱。
"After being shut up for a few days, I couldn't eat, I didn't live well and I had to pay 300 yuan.
”老谭也遇到了管理人员，他回公园的路上，有3个穿制服的人叫住他，对他说现在有了收留场地，问他愿不愿意去。
On his way back to the park, three uniformed men called him and told him that he now had a place to stay and asked if he would like to go.
老谭回答说：“不用了”，赶紧离开了他们。
"No," said Tan. "I left them quickly.
他告诉我，他主要是担心收费问题，其次害怕去了被感染。
He told me that he was mainly worried about fees and then afraid to get infected.
他们还是愿意在公园，可以散步、晒太阳，同时远离人群。
They are still willing to walk in the park, bask in the sun and stay away from the crowd.
只是住处不好找，早上10点左右，通道被人用铁栏围起了出入口，里面的东西都清空了。
It was hard to find, and at about 10 a.m. the passage was barred out and emptied of its contents.
这天下午，公园里又有新成员。
There were new members in the park that afternoon.
他背着大包，提着一个袋子，穿得整齐干净，他是刚用完了钱，不能继续住酒店了，所以到公园里来。
He was dressed neatly and neatly, with a large bag on his back. He had just run out of money and could no longer stay in the hotel, so he went to the park.
他从浙江过来，别的事也不愿意多说。
He came from Zhejiang and didn't want to say anything else.
下午5点左右，我叫了一单7人份的外卖，过一个小时才送达，他们很快吃光了。
Around 5 p. m., I ordered a seven-person take-out and it took an hour for it to arrive, and they ate it up quickly.
然而，重新找的被子，需要志愿者一处一处拿。
However, the re-found quilt, need volunteers to take one by one.
天黑了，气温明显下降。
It was dark and the temperature dropped noticeably.
晚上8点28分，志愿者魏哥到了公园，把被子给了他们。
At 8: 28 p.m., volunteer Wei Ge went to the park and gave them the quilt.
高强等人连连感谢，但他们的时间不多了，要赶紧找今晚的住处。
Gao Qiang and others continued to thank, but they do not have much time, we must hurry to find tonight's residence.
没过一会儿，一群人就散了。
In a short time, the group dispersed.
在公园附近的路口，我又遇见了那个翻垃圾箱的小伙，他带着全部行李，看起来非常疲惫。
At the intersection near the park, I met the guy who was rummaging through the garbage can. He looked very tired with all his luggage.
他说，他找了两个地方住，但都被人叫起来，把他撵走了。
He said he had found two places to live, but they were all shouted out and turned him out.
他不愿意再说话，朝着长江大桥的方向走去，路口一转不见了。
He did not want to talk any more and walked towards the Yangtze River Bridge. The intersection disappeared.
晚上9点过，高强终于找到了一个新的过道，他准备下去看看。
After 9: 00 pm, Gao Qiang finally found a new corridor, he is ready to go down to see.
其实，盛宽和方建就睡在这里，因为这个过道很偏，暂时没有被注意到。
In fact, Sheng Kuan and Fang Jian slept here because the corridor was so wide that they were not noticed for the time being.
高强有些高兴，他说：“今晚能睡一个安稳觉了”。
Gao Qiang is a little happy, he said: "Tonight can sleep a sound sleep."
2月25日晚，高强找到了新的通道（图/南风窗记者 向治霖）他下去后十多分钟，一个穿保安服的人来了，往地道里看了一眼，抽身走了上来。
On the night of Feb. 25, Gao Qiang found a new passage (pictured / South Window reporter giving Lin a rain treatment) More than ten minutes after he went down, a man in security clothes came, looked into the tunnel, and stepped out.
他对我抱怨说：“这群人叫也叫不走，又住到这儿了。
He complained to me: "This group of people don't call it quits, they live here again.
现在明明有政府收留，包吃包住，他们还不愿意去。
Now obviously have the government to take in, the bag eats encase, they still do not want to go.
”他是对面广场的工作人员，据他说，红十字会捐的物资，是他上报后送来的，前两天冲洗通道，也是因为他的上报反映。
He worked in the square across the street and, according to him, the material donated by the Red Cross had been sent by him after he had reported it and had been flushed the previous two days because of reports from him.
“没有办法，他们不愿意走，但过道不能住人，这是规定”，他说，这个通道还是不能住，等他明天再报上去。
"There's no way, they don't want to go, but the aisle can't be inhabited, that's the rule," he said.
（部分人物为化名）作者 | 南风窗高级记者 向治霖编辑| 李少威排版 | 阿丽菜图片 | 部分来源于网络南风窗新媒体出品点击购买最新一期《南风窗》点在看让理性的声音传得更遥远。
South Window Senior Reporter AT & amp; Edition & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在武汉街头入睡，请别对着我的被子浇水。
I sleep on the street in Wuhan, please don't water my quilt.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南风窗";。
Var nickname = & quot; South Window & quot;;
var msg_title = "我在武汉街头入睡，请别对着我的被子浇水";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "冬春之交的武汉，真的很冷";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the turn of winter and spring.
var title ="南风窗";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
