火神山医院会不会对武汉水源地形成污染？ - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Can the fire god mountain hospital form pollution to Wuhan water source? - Economic observation net - professional finance news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="董瑞强";。
Var auther = & quot; Dong Ruiqiang & quot;;
火神山医院会不会对武汉水源地形成污染？。
Can the fire god mountain hospital form pollution to Wuhan water source?
董瑞强2020-02-04 20:25。
Dong Ruiqiang 2020-02-04 20: 25.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 董瑞强火神山医院位于蔡甸后官湖畔，是武汉的水源之一。
Economic observation network reporter Dong Ruiqiang fire god mountain hospital is located behind Cai Dian Guan lakeside, Wuhan is one of the water sources.
如何保证医院废水、废弃物不对水源造成污染？。
How to ensure that hospital waste water and waste do not pollute the water source?
2月4日，经济观察网记者从中建三局了解到，新建武汉火神山、雷神山医院在废水处理系统方面是经过统筹考虑的，是全封闭运行，不是临时设置。
On February 4, the Economic Observation Network reporters from the China Construction Bureau learned that the new Wuhan Huoshen Mountain, Lei Shenshan Hospital in the wastewater treatment system is considered as a whole, is a closed operation, not a temporary set-up.
废水处理要通过三级液氯消毒后，才能泵送至市政管网，不会向周边环境外排。
Wastewater treatment must be sterilized with three levels of liquid chlorine before it can be pumped to the municipal network and not vented to the surrounding environment.
。
.
一位中建三局的工作人员告诉经济观察网记者，两所医院整个基地下方都铺设了防渗膜，而且是按垃圾填埋场的防渗标准操作的，雨水也会全收集上来，并且会进行消毒，所以医院产生的废水都不会对周边环境造成任何影响。
A CCB official told the Economic Watch network that seepage-proof membranes had been installed throughout the entire base of the two hospitals and were operated according to landfill anti-seepage standards. Rain would also be collected and disinfected, so the waste water from the hospitals would have no impact on the environment.
况且火神山医院配备了两个污水处理装置，即便是一套设备发生故障，仍有另一套系统可用，确保安全。
In addition, Mount Huoshen Hospital was equipped with two sewage treatment plants, and even if one set of equipment failed, another system was available to ensure safety.
。
.
知音湖就是后官湖。
Boxing Lake is a backguan lake.
其实对于火神山医院的选址，早前就有网传因位于知音湖水源地，没有污水管道，将重新选址。
As a matter of fact, for the site of the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital, the site will be re-located since it is located in the water source of Boyin Lake.
不过，武汉城建局对此回应称，该消息系谣传，火神山医院毗邻知音湖，但该湖并非武汉备用水源地。
However, the Authority responded that the news was rumored to be that the lake was not an alternate water source in Wuhan, although the hospital adjoins Boxing Lake.
。
.
既然并非备用水源地，火神山医院又位于蔡甸后官湖畔，知音湖和后官湖有何区别？。
Since it is not a reserve source of water, the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital is located in Cai Den Guan lakeside, what is the difference between Boxing Lake and Houguan Lake?
2月4日，经济观察网记者从武汉市蔡甸区水务局了解到，知音湖就是后官湖，只是叫法不同而已，后官湖是蔡甸境内最大的湖泊。
February 4, economic observation network reporters from Wuhan Cai Den District Water Bureau learned that the lake is the back Guanghu, just called different, the post-Guanhu is the largest lake in Cai dian.
很早之前后官湖就被列入《武汉市湖泊保护名录》，而且在官方各种文件和材料中从未更名。
Guanhu Lake has been on the Wuhan Lake Protection List for a long time and has never been renamed in official documents and materials.
。
.
一份由湖北省政府办公厅在2012年12月10日公布的《湖北省第一批湖泊保护名录》也显示，后官湖也被列入其中，按武汉市湖泊水面面积排序，后官湖位列第六，面积约为37平方公里。
A list of the first lakes in Hubei province, released on December 10, 2012 by the government office of Hubei Province, also showed that Houguan Lake was included, ranking sixth in the surface area of lakes in Wuhan, with an area of about 37 square kilometers.
。
.
事实上早在2018年12月11日，蔡甸区委书记陈新垓就在后官湖水质提升工作会上表示，后官湖是武汉市的后花园及后备饮用水源地，也是蔡甸区生态富矿的标志，是建设中法武汉生态示范城的重要基础。
In fact, as early as December 11, 2018, Secretary Chen Xinatevatecatecatecatecatecatecontrol said at the working meeting on water quality improvement in HouGuanhu, which is the back garden of Wuhan city, a reserve source of drinking water and a symbol of ecological wealth in Cai Den.
。
.
彼时，后官湖水域共摸排出19大排污口，日排污量达16500吨，导致水质逐年恶化，部分水域为劣五类。
At that time, there were 19 major drainage channels in the waters of HouGuanhu, with a daily discharge of 16,500 tons, resulting in the deterioration of water quality year by year.
蔡甸区政府最新数据显示，2019年11月，后官湖全湖水质为Ⅳ类，但其功能类别属于Ⅲ类。
According to the latest data from the Cai Den District Government, the water quality of HouGuanhu Lake was Category IV in November 2019, but its functional category is Class III.
。
.
根据地表水环境质量标准，按功能高低依次划分为五类。
According to the environmental quality standards of surface water, it is divided into five categories in order of function.
其中Ⅲ类水质主要适用于集中式生活饮用水地表水源地二级保护区、鱼虾类越冬场、洄游通道、水产养殖区等渔业水域及游泳区。
The water quality of Class III mainly applies to the secondary protected area of surface water source of concentrated drinking water, the overwintering field of fish and shrimp, migratory passage, aquaculture area and swimming area.
而Ⅳ类水质主要适用于一般工业用水区及人体非直接接触的娱乐用水区。
And the type IV water quality mainly applies to the general industrial water use area and the human body indirect contact recreational water area.
。
.
也就是说，官湖全湖及其4个子湖的水质本应达到Ⅲ类水标准，属于集中式生活饮用水地表水源地二级保护区。
In other words, the water quality of Guanhu Lake and its 4 sub-lakes should have reached the water standard of Class III.
。
.
污水下渗概率非常小。
The probability of seepage from sewage is very low.
经济观察网记者了解到，由于火神山医院建设时间紧急，相关建设单位最主要的解决方法是做好污水处理环节，避免二次污染。
The reporter of the economic observation network understands, because the fire god mountain hospital construction time is urgent, the most important solution of the relevant construction unit is to do a good job in sewage treatment, avoid secondary pollution.
。
.
为此，武汉城建局也在1月24日发出一则消息，寻找能满足技术要求和时间要求的废水一体化设备厂商。
On January 24, Wuhan Urban Renewal Authority (URA) issued a notice seeking integrated waste water equipment manufacturers to meet technical and time requirements.
武汉城建局要求相关废水一体化设备厂商需具备物理和化学处理方法相结合的一级加强处理工艺，主要有格栅、沉淀、消毒等工艺。
Wuhan Urban Renewal Authority requires the manufacturers of relevant integrated waste water treatment facilities to have a combination of physical and chemical treatment of a step-by-step strengthening process, mainly grating, sedimentation, disinfection and other processes.
消毒剂可采用液氯、次氯酸钠、二氧化氯等。
Disinfectant can use liquid chlorine, sodium hypochlorite, chlorine dioxide and so on.
废水经处理达到排放标准后（尤其是2019-nCoV病毒指标），通过市政下水道排入城市污水处理厂处理。
Wastewater is treated to emission standards (in particular 2019-nCoV indicators) and discharged into municipal sewage treatment plants for treatment.
。
.
所谓格栅，其作用是截留并去除污水中含有大量较大的悬浮物和漂浮物，对水泵和后续处理单元起保护作用。
The so-called grille, whose function is to capture and remove sewage containing a large number of larger suspensions and floats, the pump and follow-up processing units play a protective role.
。
.
据了解，医疗污水来源及成分十分复杂，其中含有大量病原细菌、病毒和化学药剂，具有空间污染、急性传染和潜伏性传染的特征。
It is understood that the sources and components of medical sewage are complex and contain a large number of pathogenic bacteria, viruses and chemicals, characterized by space pollution, acute infectious diseases and latent infections.
医疗废水的排放对水资源会造成巨大危害。
The discharge of medical wastewater can do great harm to water resources.
所以如果将医院建在湖泊旁边，一定要把污水处理工艺做好。
So if the hospital is built next to the lake, we must do a good job of sewage treatment.
。
.
一位水处理工业设备公司的专业人士对经济观察网记者表示，如果是排到市政管网里去，就不存在对周边水源有危害性的问题。
A professional from the water-treatment industry told the Economic Watch network that there was no problem with the surrounding water if it was drained into the municipal network.
上了专业的污水处理设备，是要完全达到标准之后，才能排到市政管网的，一般来讲，不会向自然水体里进行排放。
On the professional sewage treatment equipment, is to fully meet the standards, can be discharged to the municipal network, generally not to the natural water body.
况且火神山医院整个地面都充分硬化了，下渗概率非常非常小。
Besides, the whole floor of Mount Huoshen Hospital is fully hardened and the probability of seepage is very small.
至于粪便传播病毒，定点医院有消毒工艺，也不是问题。
As for fecal transmission of viruses, the designated hospital has sterilization technology, is not a problem.
。
.
记者从兴源环境方面获悉，其参建火神山医院的项目组是按照传染病医院建设标准设计施工，在小汤山样本基础上优化方案，采用了生化处理技术，能有效消除各种细菌病毒。
Reporters from the Xingyuan environment, its participation in the building of the Mount Huoshen Hospital project team is in accordance with the construction standards for the construction of infectious disease hospitals, based on the small sample optimization program, the use of biochemical processing technology, can effectively eliminate a variety of bacterial viruses.
严格按国家规定的传染病医疗机构污水排放标准处理污水，处理达标后再排至专门管网。
Sewage disposal standards for infectious disease medical institutions shall be strictly observed as prescribed by the state, and the sewage shall be treated to standards before being discharged into special pipelines.
。
.
对于如何防范粪便传播病毒，生态环境部于2月1日印发通知要求，对新冠病毒感染的肺炎疫情隔离区外排粪便、污水进行必要的杀菌消毒，禁止污水直排或处理未达标排放，不得将固体传染性废物、各种化学废液弃置和倾倒排入下水道。
On February 1, the Ministry of Ecology and Environment issued a notice on how to prevent the spread of human feces and viruses. The Ministry also issued a notice on February 1 to carry out necessary disinfection of excreta and sewage from the SARS quarantine area, prohibit direct discharge of sewage or treat substandard discharge, and not dispose or dump solid infectious waste, chemical waste liquid into sewers.
。
.
环保企业参建。
Environmental enterprises participate in construction.
火神山医院建设项目是由中信建筑设计院设计，中建三局等四家单位负责建设。
The construction project of Fosen Mountain Hospital is designed by CITIC Architectural Design Institute.
历时十昼夜，2月4日上午9时，火神山医院终于正式投入使用，迎来首批新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的病人，他们分别来自武昌医院、汉口医院等三所医院。
Ten days and nights, February 4 at 9: 00 a.m., the fire god mountain hospital finally opened, ushered in the first new coronavirus infection pneumonia patients from Wuchang Hospital, Hankou Hospital and other three hospitals.
。
.
在医院建成背后，有大大小小各类环保企业的身影。
Behind the completion of the hospital, there are large and small environmental protection enterprises.
尤其是在涉污水处理环节上，环保设备企业、技术服务企业以及水质监测企业等参与较多。
Especially in the sewage treatment links, environmental protection equipment enterprises, technical service enterprises and water quality monitoring enterprises are more involved.
。
.
据经济观察网记者不完全统计，截至目前，有16家环保企业直接参与火神山医院项目施工援建，如高能环境、兴源环境、银江环保等等。
Up to now, 16 environmental protection enterprises have directly participated in the construction and construction of the Huoshen Mountain Hospital Project, such as the high-energy environment, Xingyuan environment, Yinjiang environmental protection and so on.
。
.
其中在污水处理工程方面，部分由兴源环境担任工程总集成，银江环保负责环保装备。
In the sewage treatment project, part of the Xingyuan environment as the overall integration of the project, Yinjiang responsible for environmental protection equipment.
银江环保不仅承接了火神山医院污水处理项目，同时也承接了雷神山医院污水处理项目，提供系统装备2套2千吨/天医疗污水处理设备。
Yinjiang environmental protection not only undertook the fire god mountain hospital sewage treatment project, but also undertook the Lui Shenshan hospital sewage treatment project, providing the system equipment 2 sets of 2 kilotonnes / day medical sewage treatment equipment.
品略环境配合兴源环境和银江环保制作并组装污水处理设备所需的2个箱体。
Two boxes are needed for the production and assembly of wastewater treatment equipment in accordance with Xingyuan environment and Yinjiang environment.
。
.
此次高能环境及分子公司组成应急施工团队50多人，参与了火神山医院3万平方米的防渗、防水、防护工程建设，包括人员设备材料调配进场、防渗工程整体实施以及土建等其他专业交叉配合。
The high-energy environment and molecular company formed an emergency construction team of more than 50 people, participated in the fire Shenshan Hospital 30,000 square meters of anti-seepage, waterproofing, protective engineering construction, including personnel equipment and materials deployment, anti-seepage project as a whole and civil construction and other professional cross-coordination.
高能环境承诺在火神山医院施工中所有材料无偿支援，同时还提供了包括HDPE膜、土工布、加热墙、焊接机等设备。
The high energy environment commitment provides free support for all materials during the construction of the Mount Huoshen Hospital, as well as equipment including HDPE films, geotextiles, heating walls, welding machines, etc.
。
.
高能环境董事长李卫国表示，公司为医院防渗工程、污水处理工程、医废处置工程等提供设计施工方案，确保不让一滴污水进入地下。
Li Weiguo, chairman of the high-energy environment department, said the company provided design and construction plans for seepage control projects, sewage treatment works and waste disposal projects to ensure that not a drop of sewage would enter the ground.
。
.
广泰源环保武汉公司、奥淼环保、中兰环保也参与建设了火神山医院部分防渗工程。
Guangtai Yuan Environmental Protection Company, Omiao Environmental Protection, Zhonglan Environmental Protection also participated in the construction of the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital part of the seepage control project.
。
.
在污水处理环节，还有一项重要任务就是做好水质在线监测，确保水质在线监控数据真实准确，防止对水源造成污染。
In the sewage treatment process, it is also an important task to do a good job on-line monitoring of water quality to ensure that the online monitoring data is true and accurate, to prevent pollution of water sources.
。
.
聚光科技公司和力合科技均参与其中，聚光科技为火神山、雷神山医院提供的设备为6套水质在线监测设备，包括COD、氨氮、余氯等。
Both Focus Technology and Leetech are involved, and Focus technology provides six sets of on-line water quality monitoring equipment, including COD, ammonia nitrogen and residual chlorine, for Mount Fujimori and Raytheon Mountain Hospital.
力合科技对火神山、雷神山及金银潭等9家新冠病毒肺炎定点医院的污水及周边水源水质情况开展监测。
The quality of effluent and surrounding water sources at 9 Novovirus Pneumonia Destination Hospitals, including Fo Shen Shan, Lei Shenshan and Gold and Silver Pool, were monitored.
。
.
力合科技方面介绍，此次力合科技无偿提供相关设备和技术支持，装备、调试完成了三台应急监测车，配备有余氯、生物毒性、粪大肠菌群等十余项指标的监测仪器以及一批消毒杀菌物资。
The company provided related equipment and technical support free of charge, equipped and debugged three emergency monitoring vehicles equipped with monitoring instruments with more than a dozen indicators, including residual chlorine, biological toxicity, faecal coliform bacteria and a batch of disinfectant and germicidal materials.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
董瑞强经济观察报记者。
Dong Ruiqiang Economic Observer reporter.
财税与环保新闻部记者。
Reporter, Ministry of Finance and Environmental Protection.
关注国家工业、环保领域产业政策，重点关注钢铁行业、电商、环保、新能源、高端智库等相关方向。
We will focus on industrial policies in the fields of national industry and environmental protection, focusing on the steel industry, electricity and commerce, environmental protection, new energy sources, high-end think tanks and other related directions.
擅长深度报道和人物专访。
Good at in-depth reporting and persona interviews.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、火神山医院会不会对武汉水源地形成   。
Will the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital form on Wuhan water source?
2、长安汽车2019年预亏24-29亿元 第四   。
Changan Automobile 2019 deficit of 2.4-2.9 billion yuan fourth.
3、基于数学建模预判疫情 李迅雷：乐   。
Predicting epidemic situation based on mathematical modeling Li Xunlei: Le.
4、面对“疫情”中困难的企业，何不将   。
Facing the difficult enterprises in the epidemic situation, why not.
5、上海发布抗疫企业减负政策  中小微   。
5, Shanghai issued the anti-epidemic enterprise burden reduction policy medium and small.
6、山东应对疫情紧急救助中小企业：不   。
Shandong Coping with the Epidemic Emergency Relief SME: No.
7、A股翻红 近10家上市公司拟增持或回   。
7, A-share turn red nearly 10 listed companies to increase or return.
8、新型冠状病毒疫情对中国经济的影响   。
The impact of the new coronavirus epidemic on China's economy.
9、为什么武汉的新冠肺炎患者病死率是   。
9. Why is the death rate of the new crown pneumonia in Wuhan?
10、孝感：举报发热不报者属实奖1000元   。
10, filial piety: report feverish does not report the person true prize 1000 yuan.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
