《余生一日》，疫情下的国人“影像日记”。
"The rest of life", the "image diary" of the Chinese people under the epidemic.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
如在看素材、写脚本的过程中，秦晓宇不断地感受到疫情之下人们生发出的恐惧和爱意。
For example, in the process of reading materials and writing scripts, Qin Xiaoyu constantly feel people's fear and love under the epidemic.
他坚信，这种爱意，恰恰是我们克服恐惧，克服冷漠、自私和敌意的力量。
He is convinced that this love is the very strength we have to overcome fear, indifference, selfishness and hostility.
《余生一日》投稿作品截图。
A screenshot of the book The Remaining Day.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 张惠兰编辑｜王婧祎校对|翟永军►本文约4491字，阅读全文约需9分钟2020年2月9日。
interviewee: Zhang Huilan, editor of the new Beijing News, about 4491 words in this article. It will take about 9 minutes to read the full text on February 9, 2020.
对大多数中国人来说，这一天的记忆并不美好。
For most Chinese, the memory of this day is not good.
新冠肺炎疫情仍在扩散，很多人在那天看到了国家卫健委的通报——截至2月8日24时，全国累计报告确诊病例37198例。
The outbreak continued to spread, with many people seeing the report from the National Institutes of Health (NHS) - 37,198 cases reported nationwide as of 2400 on Feb. 8.
这是疫情当下的普通一天。
This is the normal day of the epidemic.
很多人居家隔离，戴口罩出门，在手机上刷着最新的消息……然而，这一天，将被烙印在几千个拿起手机、相机的记录者的余生记忆里。
Many people go out in isolation, wearing masks, and brushing the latest news on their mobile phones... however, this day will be remembered for the rest of the lives of thousands of people who picked up their phones and cameras.
2月5日，纪录片导演、大象纪录创始人秦晓宇在网上发出倡议，邀请所有被疫情影响的人，拍摄下自己在2月9日任一时刻的生活片段。
On February 5, the documentary director and founder of elephant records, Qin Xiaoyu, launched an online initiative to invite all those affected by the epidemic to take pictures of their lives at any time on February 9.
收到素材后，他将和团队一起，制作出一部纪录片，也是一份中国人在疫情中的“影像日记”，取名为《余生一日》。
After receiving the material, he and his team will produce a documentary, also known as the "Imaging Diary" of the Chinese in the epidemic.
截至目前，秦晓宇团队已经收到3000多份投稿，拍摄者遍布全国各地乃至海外，基本都是华人。
So far, Qin's team has received more than 3,000 contributions, filmed all over the country and overseas, mostly Chinese.
秦晓宇说，目前团队还在整理分类素材，和另外两位剪辑师筛选素材的同时，他也在撰写脚本，希望能让片子赶在3月底前面世。
Mr. Qin said the team is still sorting through the material, and while two other editors sift through the material, he is also writing scripts that he hopes will be ready by the end of March.
46岁的秦晓宇是内蒙古人，诗人，2015年以来，他开始执导或监制纪录片，题材多聚焦于底层和边缘人物，如热爱诗歌的打工者、临终关怀医院的老人等。
Qin Xiaoyu, a 46-year-old native of Inner Mongolia and a poet, has directed or supervised documentaries since 2015, focusing mostly on low-level and marginal figures, such as poetry-loving workers and the elderly in hospices.
用这种独特的方式制作《余生一日》，是基于秦晓宇一直以来的信念：人人皆有诗心，人人皆有创造力。
Making The Day of the Other Life in this unique way is based on Qin Xiaowu's long-held belief that everyone has a poetic heart and everyone is creative.
在看素材、写脚本的过程中，秦晓宇不断地印证这一信念，也不断地感受到疫情之下人们生发出的恐惧和爱意。
In the process of reading materials and writing scripts, Qin Xiaowu constantly confirmed this belief, but also continued to feel the fear and love of people under the epidemic.
他坚信，这种爱意，恰恰是我们克服恐惧，克服冷漠、自私和敌意的力量。
He is convinced that this love is the very strength we have to overcome fear, indifference, selfishness and hostility.
以下是新京报记者与秦晓宇的对话：“余生一日”剥洋葱：为什么要制作这样一部纪录片？秦晓宇：这是作为纪录片人的第一反应，因为这次疫情本身有特别大的记录意义，从微观到宏观层面都有很大的影响，宏观是社会，微观是个人生活，记录能给未来留一些资料。
Qin Xiaoyu: This is the first reaction of a documentary filmmaker, because the epidemic itself has a great impact, from the micro to the macro level, macro-social, micro-personal life, and records can leave some information for the future.
具体到这种全民记录的方法，第一是基于疫情防控的要求，我们没办法亲自到各地进行拍摄；第二，疫情的影响波及方方面面，包括各个行业、各个地区、每个人，但显然任何技术团队都不可能有这样的人力、物力去做如此全面的记录；第三，单一的纪录片拍摄者会有主观局限，如果让更多的人来参与，每个人用自己的立场和看问题的角度，记录着对自己而言的真实，这些东西汇总在一起，可以呈现更完整的真实。
Second, the impact of the epidemic affects all sectors, regions and individuals, but obviously no technical team can have the human and material resources to make such a comprehensive record. Thirdly, if more people are involved, everyone can record what is true for them from their own standpoint and point of view, which can be combined to present a more complete reality.
《余生一日》发起人、纪录片导演秦晓宇。
Qin Xiaoyu, founder and documentary director of The Day of the Rest of Life.
受访者供图剥洋葱：片名为什么要叫“余生一日”？秦晓宇：我们可以在三重意义上来理解它。
Why is the title of the film called "Remaining Day" Qin Xiaoyu: We can understand it in a triple sense.
第一，可以理解为“劫难中的一日”，这次疫情对所有的人、对整个社会都是一场劫难，劫难中会发生很多事情，会有很多强烈的情感，也有方方面面呈现出来的特殊状态，纪录片应当为未来著史。
First, it can be understood as "a day of disaster." This epidemic is a disaster for all people and the whole society. A lot of things will happen in the disaster.
第二，也可以理解为“我”生命中普通的一天。
Second, it can also be understood as the ordinary day of my life.
对于绝大多数人来说，不管社会发生了怎样的变化，我们还是要过柴米油盐的普通日子，哪怕在劫难中，我们也会想尽办法让这个日子尽可能好一点，有一些乐趣和幸福感。
For the vast majority of people, no matter what changes have taken place in our society, we still have to live the ordinary life of firewood, and even in the event of a disaster, we try our best to make it as good as possible and have some fun and happiness.
再有，它也是重生的一日。
Moreover, it is also a day of rebirth.
这次疫情会让很多平常不善于或者不喜欢思考的人，因为有了时间和这样的事件背景，而去思考一些关于家庭、真相、人与人的关系、人与动物的关系等问题。
This epidemic will make many people who are not usually good at thinking or not, because of the time and background of such events, but to think about the family, the truth, the relationship between people, the relationship between people and animals.
这种思考不仅仅是对自己生活的审视，同时也包含一种社会反思，从而一点点地推动社会进步。
This kind of thinking is not only a review of their own lives, but also contains a kind of social reflection, thus promoting social progress little by little.
这可能是这次不幸中的一点点有价值的东西。
This could be a little bit of value in this mishap.
剥洋葱：拍摄方式和片名，会让人联想到2011年上映的美国纪录片《浮生一日》，你们是否受到了这部片子的启发？（注：《浮生一日》由英国导演凯文·麦克唐纳执导，190个国家和地区的网民拍摄下自己在2010年7月24日里的生活琐事，总计近4500小时的素材被剪成95分钟纪录片。
Onion-peeling: The way the film is filmed and the title of it is reminiscent of the 2011 American documentary "One Day of Floating," by Kevin MacDonald, a British director who filmed the details of his life on July 24, 2010, in 190 countries and territories, cutting nearly 4,500 hours of material into 95-minute documentaries.
）秦晓宇：我们当然也受到《浮生一日》的启发。
) Qin Xiaoyu: Of course we were inspired by One Day of Floating.
但《浮生一日》的拍摄应该是在2010年左右，当时自媒体没有今天这么发达，大家拍摄视频的意识、水平、设备也没有今天这么好。
But "Floyd One" should have been shot around 2010, when the media were not as developed as they are today, and the awareness, level, and facilities for filming videos were not as good as they are today.
我们在内容上也有很大的不同。
We are also very different in content.
《浮生一日》给出的是一种日常生活景观，而我们拍摄的所有人的生活，他们的喜怒哀乐、悲欢离合，都是发生在疫情这个大背景之下，是一种非常状态下的日常生活，因为通常我们不会这样过日子：走在路上都戴着口罩，或者根本就没法出门。
"Floating a Day" gives a view of everyday life, and the lives of all of us, their moods, moods, joys and sorrows, take place against the backdrop of an epidemic, a state of everyday life, because usually we don't live like this: we wear masks on the road, or we can't go out at all.
就创作来说，这种“非常态”会产生一个巨大的偏离和陌生化的效果，同时会也激发你的情感。
As far as creation is concerned, this "abnormal state" can have a huge effect of deviation and strangeness, and it can also stimulate your emotions.
你的各种情绪都会在这种“非常态”的状态下被激发出来。
Your emotions will be aroused in this "abnormal" state.
很多来自武汉的素材，其实不用怎么拍，拍摄者只要把自己的恐惧、担忧、爱意……这种最本真的状态拿出来，就特别打动人。
A lot of materials from Wuhan, in fact do not need to shoot, filmmakers as long as their own fear, worry, love... this most authentic state out, particularly touching.
剥洋葱：除了普通民众之外，有专业人士参与吗？秦晓宇：我们联系了全国各地的三四十个航拍“飞手”，希望他们那天白天能飞得低一点，让我们看到街道上人们的神情。
Qin Xiaoyu: We contacted thirty or forty aerial photographers from all over the country, hoping that they could fly a little lower that day and let us see the faces of people in the streets.
还有一些玩GoPro（注：一种运动摄像机）的，把摄像头绑在自己的身上进行拍摄，另外也联系了一些车载拍摄的。
Others play GoPro, tying cameras to their bodies for filming, and contacting a number of vehicle-borne shots.
还有一些参与者是我认识的电影相关从业者，比如《乡村里的中国》的导演焦波老师，2月5日左右我给他打电话，他当时生了病，也不敢去医院，就在家里大把吃药，于是拍了自己在家养病的状态。
Some of the participants were film-related practitioners I knew, such as the director of China in the Country, Mr. Jiao Bo. I called him around February 5. He was ill and did not dare to go to the hospital.
还有一位是电影《矮婆》的导演蒋能杰，他那天拍摄了他奶奶一天的生活。
Then there is the director of the film Dwarf, Jiang Nengjie, who took pictures of his grandmother's life that day.
我后来发现一个挺有意思的现象。
I found an interesting phenomenon later on.
这些专业摄影师或者专业纪录片人，他们更多记录的是他人或者自己周围世界，而非专业的人大多是对准自身。
These professional photographers, or professional documentaries, record more about other people or the world around them than about themselves.
当你需要一些情节点，一些特别触动人心的话语时，往往这些非专业人士能带给你更多的惊喜。
When you need some action points, especially touching words, these non-professionals can give you more surprises.
《余生一日》投稿作品截图。
A screenshot of the book The Remaining Day.
受访者供图“复调的，众声喧哗的”剥洋葱：这些拍摄素材主要包括哪些内容和情绪？秦晓宇：占比很大的是拍摄自己隔离在家的状态。
What are the main contents and moods of these filming materialQin Xiaoyu: It's very important to take pictures of yourself being isolated at home.
一部分人拍摄了自己的周围环境，比如去药店、超市，在小区散步。
Some took pictures of their surroundings, such as going to drugstores, supermarkets, and walking around the neighborhood.
纪录片工作者、航拍“飞手”、摄影师等专业人员会记录公共空间发生的一些事情，比如道路的隔断、检查。
Professionals such as documentary makers, aerial filmmakers, photographers, etc., record things that happen in public spaces, such as road seclusion and inspection.
还有一类是跟疫情密切相关的，比如方舱医院里的病人、医护人员，外卖小哥、志愿者，他们多处在工作状态中，记录了自己的工作。
Another category is closely related to the epidemic, such as the cabin hospital patients, medical personnel, take-out brothers, volunteers, many of them in the working state, recorded their work.
我目前看到的，七情六欲、喜怒哀乐忧思恐都会有呈现，没有任何明显情绪的也有。
The emotions, moods, moods and sorrows I have seen so far are likely to manifest themselves, without any apparent emotion.
我们原本也希望这部作品是复调的、众声喧哗的，而不是有着统一调性的作品。
We would have liked this work to be polyphonic and noisy, rather than one with a unified tone.
剥洋葱：讲一讲来自武汉的内容吧。
Peel onions: Tell me something from Wuhan.
秦晓宇：武汉让人感动的素材特别多。
Qin Xiaoyu: Wuhan makes people moved by the material is particularly many.
一个小伙子，走上他们家的楼顶，指着一片灯火比较暗淡的地方，说那是菱角湖，湖边的湖北省中西医结合医院是最早收治新冠肺炎患者的地方，再远处一公里就到了华南海鲜市场。
A young man walked up to the top of their house and pointed to a dimly lit area called Lingjiao Lake. The Hubei Provincial Hospital for Chinese and Western Medicine was the first place to treat patients with Newcastle Pneumonia, and one kilometer away it was the South China Seafood Market.
他也谈到自己的感受，说封城的这段时间，人的活动减少了之后，他明显听到鸟叫声变多了，pm2.5数值也降下来了。
He also spoke of his feelings, saying that during the period of the siege, when human activity had diminished, he had apparently heard more bird calls and the pm2.5 had come down.
那天是正月十六，他攥着手机介绍他所处的位置，镜头转到月亮那儿，让人看了有“人有悲欢离合，月有阴晴圆缺”的感触。
It was the sixteenth of the first month, and he held his cell phone to explain where he was. The camera turned to the moon, showing the feeling that there were "joys and sorrows, the moon is cloudy and round."
一个武汉的姑娘，她先是让镜头对准自己，说“最近武汉……”就说不下去了。
Wuhan girl, she first let the camera point at herself, said "recently Wuhan..." can not go on.
“算了，给大家看一看凌晨2点的武汉吧。
"Come on, let's have a look at Wuhan at 2am.
”她声音发颤，同时把手机拿到窗外，画面黑黢黢的，“你看外面已经没几个灯火了，白天更明显，整个城市就像被按了暂停键一样。
Her voice trembled, and she held her cell phone out of the window and the picture darkened. "You see that there aren't many lights out there, and the day is more obvious, and the whole city looks as if it had been suspended.
”还有一个网名叫“二蛋大王”的医生。
"There was also a doctor named" The King of Two Eggs.
他从宁夏到湖北支援，拍摄是在医院里进行的，面对镜头，他谈到了恐惧，他说一怕疫情不能很快结束，二怕自己染病甚至因此挂掉。
He traveled from Ningxia to Hubei province to support the shooting, which was done in a hospital. He talked about fear, saying that he was afraid that the outbreak would not end soon and that he might even die from it.
虽然背景有点过曝，构图也不能算好，但是因为他们离危险最近，让那种恐惧更真实，让人有强烈的共鸣感。
Although the background is a bit over-exposed, composition is not good, but because they are closest to danger, it makes that fear more real and resonant.
《余生一日》投稿作品截图。
A screenshot of the book The Remaining Day.
受访者供图剥洋葱：还有哪些让你印象深刻的素材？秦晓宇：有一个姑娘在宁波，春节不能回老家，她奶奶是属鼠的，正好过生日，她就用面团做了三只小老鼠，写上“96（岁）快乐”。
Qinxiaoyu: There was a girl in Ningbo who couldn't go back to her hometown for the Spring Festival. Her grandmother was a mouse, and on her birthday, she made three little mice out of dough and wrote "Happy 96."
还有一个女孩儿，因为曾跟确诊患者有过接触，信息在小区群里被曝光，立刻收到了骚扰电话。
Another girl, who had been in contact with a confirmed patient and whose information had come to light in the community, immediately received a harassing phone call.
她说自己感受到了世界对她的深深恶意。
She said she felt the world's deep malice toward her.
她说，自己不怕死，但是怕在歧视中死去。
She said she was not afraid to die, but feared to die in discrimination.
有一个汕头的姑娘，对着河边的风景，说出了真诚的祝福，祝福的对象中包括她的前男友。
There is a Shantou girl, facing the river scenery, said the sincere blessing, including her former boyfriend.
我想是不是这次疫情也让她对两个人的故事有了重新看待。
I wondered if the outbreak had given her a fresh look at the story of the two of them.
她说，疫情给自己的影响是把每一天当作生命的最后一天来看待，这样每一天也会被格外珍惜。
She said the epidemic's impact on themselves is to see each day as the last day of life, so that each day will be especially precious.
有一家人拍摄了他们在屋子里做口罩的情景，还有一对父子在屋子里踢足球。
One family filmed them making masks in the house and a father and son playing football in the house.
再比如一只跛脚鸭走在田间地头上，空中飘荡着四川话的广播：“大家把这件事儿办好了，天天都是春节，办不好，这就是最后一个春节。
Another example is a lame duck walking on the field head, in Sichuan language broadcast: "People do this thing well, every day is Spring Festival, do not do well, this is the last Spring Festival.
”这样的素材特别多，充满了想象力。
"Such material was particularly rich and imaginative.
爱是克服恐惧、冷漠、自私和敌意的力量剥洋葱：收集完素材，接下来要做什么？秦晓宇：整理素材、做场记。
Love is a power to conquer fear, indifference, selfishness, and enmity Peel onions: Gather the material, what's next? Qin Xiaoyu: Gather the material and make the notes.
我们有8-10个人在做素材整理的工作。
We have 8-10 people doing the stuff.
到现在为止，素材我已经看了百分之五六十。
So far I've seen fifty or sixty percent of the material.
之后是粗剪，再精剪。
And then the rough shears, and then the finishes.
我本来以为剪辑和制作会是一个特别巨大的难题，但是在看素材、做剪辑脚本的过程中，我的信心慢慢变得充足。
I thought editing and making would be a particularly big challenge, but as I read the material and edited the script, my confidence slowly grew.
信心主要来自于素材的丰富性和出人意料的程度。
Confidence comes primarily from the richness and unexpected abundance of the material.
我一直有一种认识，人人皆有诗心，人人皆有创造力，这次疫情，一方面激发了大家的困境感、恐惧感、囚禁感等情绪，但另一方面，又因为大家都“憋”得很厉害，不能出门，这样的表达是可以释放这种憋屈的。
I have always known that everyone is poetic and creative, and this epidemic, on the one hand, inspires feelings of distress, fear and imprisonment, and on the other hand, because people are so "pent up" that they cannot go out.
纪录片团队正在加紧制作。
The documentary team is stepping up production.
受访者供图剥洋葱：这些素材能够促进人们对这场疫情的认识吗？秦晓宇：疫情发生以后，大家能够看到的多是发生在公共空间的事，比如政府部门在开会研究，工地在紧张施工，医院在救治病人，大街上空空荡荡。
Qinxiaoyu: After the outbreak, most of what you can see is happening in the public space, such as government departments in conference research, construction sites under intense construction, hospitals treating patients, the streets empty.
但是在我们收到的这些素材中，大部分人都处于“闭关”的状态，拍摄者回到了自己的私人空间。
But most of the material we received was "closed" and the filmmakers returned to their private spaces.
我们原本只知道自己在家里面是怎么过的，我们哪里知道农村跟城市里面的家庭有什么区别，重疫区和轻疫区有什么区别，中产阶级家庭跟底层打工者有什么区别，在这些场域里又会有什么有趣的事情、有趣的对话？比如投稿中出现的一位值班民警，他拍摄了自己工作和居家的状态，你能看到，他到家以后会把那件亮光闪闪的警服挂在院子里消毒，不带到屋里去。
Where do we know the difference between rural and urban families, between heavy and light epidemics, between middle-class families and low-level workers? For example, what is the difference between a middle-class family and a low-level migrant worker?
通常我们看到的所有公共记录的镜头，都是拍民警在街头工作的场景，他怎样去检查、怎样去量体温，但其实他有他的情感、他的爱好、他的家庭，在这些素材中，他一下子就变成了一个可亲可爱的人，而不只是一个职业身份。
Usually all the public records we see are pictures of policemen working on the streets, how he checks, how he measures his temperature, but in fact he has his emotions, his hobbies, his family, and in these materials he becomes a amiable, lovable person, not just a professional status.
剥洋葱：等影片制作完成后，你希望传递怎样的意义？秦晓宇：纪录片的使命是记录真相，特别是在现在这种消息纷繁复杂的情况下，每个人基于自己的观察，基于自己所处的位置，呈现自己眼中的真实就显得特别重要，有助于我们来认识真相，记录下每个普通人的生活史。
Qin Xiaoyu: The mission of the documentary is to record the truth, especially when the news is so complicated that everyone, based on his own observation and position, presents the truth in his own eyes, which helps us to understand the truth and record the life history of every ordinary person.
另外，全民记录的这种形式本身就能给大家一种启示，即每个人的生命体验都是值得被尊重的，都是有价值的，不存在等级高下之分。
Moreover, this form of universal documentation is in itself a revelation that everyone's life experience is worthy of respect and value, and that there is no hierarchy.
再有，疫情之下人们生发出的恐惧和爱意，也将会是片子的一个重要主题。
And the fear and love that people feel from the epidemic will be an important part of the story.
这种恐惧感，既包括对自己和亲友染病的担忧，也有对疫情带来的持续影响的焦虑，甚至还蔓生出了对湖北人的没来由的歧视，你会感觉到人与人的关系突然被拉远，甚至分崩离析，这是我们在瘟疫之外创造了另外一种瘟疫。
This fear, ranging from fear of illness for yourself and your friends and relatives, to anxiety about the continuing impact of the epidemic, and even unfounded discrimination against Hubei people, creates another plague that we have created in addition to the plague.
但另一方面，我们在素材当中又看到，退居到家庭之内，很多人会重新思考家庭的意义，重新感受自己以前未察觉的美好。
But on the other hand, we see in the material that by retreating into the home, many people rethink the meaning of the family and rediscover their previously unnoticed goodness.
这种爱意恰恰是我们克服恐惧，克服彼此的冷漠、自私和敌意的力量。
This love is the very strength we have to overcome our fears, our indifference, our selfishness, our hostility.
洋葱话题▼你对全民记录的形式怎么看？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读29岁殉职医生彭银华的最后20天封城之后，金银潭医院的昼与夜新冠疫情中陨落的三位武汉教授既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell us about the state of our national record? Why don't you come back to China and tell us about it.Why don't you tell us why you're doing this
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
《余生一日》，疫情下的国人“影像日记”。
"The rest of life", the "image diary" of the Chinese people under the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "《余生一日》，疫情下的国人“影像日记”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "每个人的生命体验都是值得被尊重的，都是有价值的，不存在等级高下之分。
var msg _ desc = & quot; everyone's life experience is worthy of respect, value, and no hierarchy.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '29岁殉职医生彭银华的最后20天',。
Last 20 days with Dr. Pang Yinhua, a 29-year-old doctor who lost his life.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '封城之后，金银潭医院的昼与夜',。
Day and night at Golden and Silver Pool Hospital after the siege.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '新冠疫情中陨落的三位武汉教授',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
