“网红”医生余昌平：重症归来。
"Net red" doctor Yu Changping: the return of serious illness.
新京报记者。
Journalist, Beijing News.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科副主任医师，52岁的余昌平1月中旬确诊了新冠肺炎。
Yu Changping, 52, deputy director of respiratory medicine at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, confirmed pneumonia in mid-January.
在与病毒搏斗的40天里，余昌平一度病危，但他用乐观的心态去治疗，录制短视频科普“新冠病毒”，分享自己得病的感受和经历。
During his 40-day battle with the virus, Yu was critically ill, but he used an optimistic attitude to treat it, recording a short video of the popular science "New Crown Virus" to share his feelings and experiences of illness.
2月24日，余昌平终于治愈出院。
February 24, Yu Changping finally cured the hospital.
住院中的余昌平。
Yu Changping in hospital.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 张芮雪编辑｜胡杰校对| 张彦君►本文约4096字，阅读全文约需8分钟武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科副主任医师，52岁的余昌平确诊新冠肺炎后一度病危。
2007-9-25 21: 53 2007-9-25 20: 53 2007-11-27 00: 00 Yan-jun Zhang: About 4096 words, it takes about eight minutes to read the full text. Yu Changping, 52, deputy director of respiratory medicine at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, is critically ill after confirmation of pneumonia.
余昌平坚持用乐观的心态去治疗，录制短视频科普“新冠病毒”，分享自己得病的感受和经历。
Yu Changping insists on using an optimistic attitude to treat, recording short video popular science "new crown virus," sharing their own feelings and experience of illness.
2月24日，治愈出院。
On 24 February, he was cured and discharged.
余昌平盯着眼前的CT片，黑白胶片上两个相互对称的半圆结构里，白色的斑痕顺着边缘蔓延开来，展示着病毒侵蚀肺部的情况。
Yu stared at the CT scans before him. In two symmetrical semicircle structures on black and white film, white markings spread along the edges, showing how the virus had eroded the lungs.
这是他自己的肺部CT片。
This is his own lung CT scan.
作为武汉大学人民医院呼吸内科的副主任医师，52岁的余昌平负责新冠肺炎患者的确诊和收治。
As the deputy director of respiratory medicine in Wuhan University People's Hospital, 52-year-old Yu Changping is responsible for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with Newcastle pneumonia.
17年前，他带领30多人的团队抗击非典，全组医护人员实现零感染，而这次，他成了科室里第一个“中招”的，也成为第一个被感染的湖北新冠病毒防治专家组成员。
Seventeen years ago, he led a team of more than 30 people to fight SARS and achieved zero infection. This time, he became the first team member in the department and the first to be infected with the Hubei New Crown virus.
在与病毒搏斗的40天里，余昌平一度因呼吸困难无法下床，需要使用轮椅才能去做检查，但他说自己一直用乐观的心态去治疗，最终去“阎王爷那里走了一遭”，又回来了。
After 40 days of struggling with the virus, Yu was unable to get out of bed due to breathing difficulties and needed a wheelchair to be examined, but he said he had been treated optimistically and finally went "to Yan Wang's place for a while" and returned.
2月24日，余昌平在两次核酸检测结果为阴性后，治愈出院。
On February 24, Yu Changping was discharged after negative results of two nucleic acid tests.
将前往武汉大学人民医院的隔离点接受为期14天的医学观察。
Will go to Wuhan University People's Hospital isolation site for 14 days of medical observation.
治疗期间，他录制短视频科普“新冠病毒”，分享自己得病的感受和经历。
During treatment, he recorded a short video of the popular science "New Crown Virus," sharing his feelings and experiences of illness.
其乐观的态度和幽默的风格吸引了众多网友关注，粉丝们称他“余爹爹”、“余可爱”。
His optimistic attitude and humorous style attracted a lot of netizens attention, fans called him "Daddy Yu," "I lovely."
呼吸科专家、曾经的重症患者到现在350万粉丝的“网红”。
Respiratory experts, former severe patients to the current 3.5 million fans of the "red net."
余昌平说，现在病毒暂时还没有药物可以治疗，吃好喝好睡好休息好，这是最好的治疗。
Yu Changping said that the virus has not yet been treated with drugs, eat good sleep good rest, this is the best treatment.
他希望能通过自己的讲述，让更多人能科学清晰地认识疾病，知道如何防范不会恐慌。
He hopes that through his own narration, so that more people can understand the disease clearly and scientifically, know how to prevent panic.
“这个病本身不可怕”“我可以出院啦！”视频里，余昌平笑得眼睛眯成了缝，快乐的声音从蓝色外科口罩后传来。
"The disease itself is not terrible" "I can get out of the hospital!" In the video, Yu Changping's eyes narrowed with laughter, and a happy voice came from behind the blue surgical mask.
他站在窗边，阳光透过玻璃洒到墙上，武汉难得有出太阳的好天气。
He stood at the window, the sun through the glass spilled on the wall, Wuhan rarely out of the sun's good weather.
他在这个病房里会诊过无数病人，也在这里隔离治疗了一个多月。
He had consulted numerous patients in this ward, where he had been isolated and treated for over a month.
余昌平视频截图。
Yu Changping video screenshot.
出院后，他还将继续接受隔离观察。
After his discharge from hospital, he will continue to undergo isolation observation.
“关在房间里，休息，锻炼。
"Shut up in your room. Rest and exercise.
”他描述未来14天的计划。
He described his plans for the next 14 days.
余昌平把康复归功于积极的心态：“吃得，睡得，希望就蛮大。
Yu attributed his recovery to a positive mental attitude: "Eat, sleep, hope is quite big.
”“最好的药物就是身体好，这是一个基础。
"" The best medicine is good health, which is the foundation.
另外，心态要好，心态不好，那对治疗很没帮助。
In addition, the mentality to be good, mentality is not good, that treatment is not very helpful.
”在他发在网上的视频里，医院的盒饭被他吃得精光。
In a video he posted online, he ate all the hospital lunch boxes.
余昌平所在科室有个微信群，这里成了大家讨论病例的新阵地。
Yu Changping's department has a micro-group, here has become a new position for discussion of cases.
一天，余昌平大学同学的CT片也出现在了群里，对方的肺部感染情况并没有余昌平严重，但正在准备转往重症监护室。
One day, Yu Changping University students of CT also appeared in the group, the other side of the lung infection is not serious Changping, but is preparing to transfer to intensive care unit.
他在群里说：“你的心态不对，应该高兴，应该起来走动，不能一天到晚睡在床上，要死的样子。
He said in the group: "You are not in the right mood, should be happy, should get up and walk, can not sleep in bed all day, the appearance of death.
”同学根据余昌平的建议，把吸氧方式从面罩换成了鼻导管，这样活动起来更方便。
On Yu Changping's suggestion, the students changed the oxygen intake from the mask to the nasal catheter to make it easier to move.
几天以后，同学专门给他发消息，表示自己情况好转了。
A few days later, his classmates sent him a message that he was better off.
在过去的一段日子里，余昌平每天都在病房内做锻炼。
For the past few days, Yu Changping has been doing exercises in the ward every day.
他通过走路、做体操来恢复四肢力量，通过反复做深呼吸、扩胸运动来恢复肺部功能。
He restores his limbs by walking and doing gymnastics, and restores lung function by repeated deep breathing and chest expansion.
余昌平说，新冠肺炎一般由轻微感冒症状开始，相比非典和其他流感，病程发展缓慢，这为医生的抢治提供了时间；除部分有基础疾病的高龄患者外，其他轻、中和重度患者的治愈可能性极大。
Yu said the onset of New Crown Pneumonia usually starts with mild cold symptoms, and the slow progression of the disease compared to SARS and other influenza provides time for doctors to snap up treatment. With the exception of some elderly patients with basic diseases, other patients with mild, moderate and severe diseases are highly curable.
“这个病本身不可怕，没什么紧张的。
"The disease itself is not terrible. It's nothing to worry about.
”他说。
'he said.
离死亡最近的几天余昌平是1月14日开始发烧的，38.5摄氏度，不流鼻涕、不咳嗽。
The last few days from the death of Changping is January 14 began a fever, 38.5 degrees Celsius, no runny nose, no cough.
当时他已经会诊过至少8名“不明原因病毒性肺炎”患者，但是没有想到下一个被感染的就是自己。
He had already consulted at least eight people with "viral pneumonia of unknown origin," but had no idea that the next person to be infected would be himself.
连续发烧并没有引起他的警觉，他以为是普通感冒。
The continuous fever did not alarm him; he thought it was a common cold.
16日上午是他的专家门诊日，他戴上医用外科口罩和医用帽子，继续出诊。
On the morning of the 16th, his specialist clinic day, he wore a medical surgical mask and a medical hat and went on his rounds.
但接诊到一半，就坚持不住了，随后中断了门诊接诊。
But midway through the visit, he could not hold on, and then the outpatient consultation was interrupted.
1月17日，情况仍没有好转。
On 17 January, the situation had not improved.
给自己照完CT后，直接住进了隔离病房。
After taking a CT scan for himself, he was admitted directly to the isolation ward.
他判断自己的肺炎很有可能也是这次新冠病毒引起的。
He decided that his pneumonia was most likely the result of the new crown virus.
那个傍晚，武汉上空飘着淡淡的霾。
That evening there was a faint haze over Wuhan.
手里提着CT片的余昌平给妻子拨去电话：“我不回去吃饭了，我住院了，隔离呢。
With a CT scan in his hand, Yu Changping dialed his wife. "I'm not going back to dinner. I'm in hospital. Isolated.
给我把剃须刀拿来，充电器拿来，再拿一个水瓶来。
Bring me the razor, the charger, and a water bottle.
”余昌平说自己当时的心情很平静，没有任何担心，在呼吸科工作了几十年，他了解病毒性肺炎的演化，“应该很好搞的。
After working in the respiratory department for decades, he knew the evolution of viral pneumonia. "It should be easy," he said.
”但是他没想到加重的速度如此之快，入院的第四天，他开始出现胸闷、憋气、呼吸困难等症状。
But he didn't expect the aggravation to take place so fast that on the fourth day he began to develop symptoms such as tightness in the chest, choking and breathing difficulties.
“第四天第五天很痛的时候，我就想哭了。
On the fifth day of the fourth day, when it hurt, I started to cry.
我会不会死掉？”他在心里计算着，如果他能在接下来的五天内挺过去，那他有百分之七十的机会活过来，但如果没能好转，他活下去的概率只剩百分之三十。
Will I die? "he said to himself." If he manages to make it through the next five days, he has a 70 percent chance of surviving, but if he doesn't get better, his chances of survival are only 30 percent.
入院第六天，他下床去做CT复查，但已经不能靠自己走过去了。
Six days after admission, he got out of bed for a CT scan, but could not walk by himself.
他坐在轮椅上，手里抱着氧气袋，氧气管一直连到耳根，再往前缠在鼻子下。
He was in a wheelchair with an oxygen bag in his hand. The oxygen tube reached up to his ears and wrapped under his nose.
余昌平说，这场大病让他至少瘦了十斤，因为有五天没下床，下肢力量开始退化，“不能用劲了，下床这个脚一下子抽筋了。
Yu said he lost at least 10 jin because he had not been out of bed for five days and his lower limbs began to deteriorate.
”“我病情严重到可能会死掉，当时有的医生护士对这个病也不是很了解，武汉市情况紧急，也没有人手来照顾我。
"I was so ill that I might die, and some of the doctors and nurses didn't know much about the disease, and Wuhan was in an emergency and had no hands to look after me.
”他说。
'he said.
一方面，担心妻子被传染，另一方面，病人的数量还在急剧增加，加上医护人员感染导致了人手短缺，余昌平吃饭成了问题。
On the one hand, the fear of a wife being infected, on the other hand, the number of patients is increasing rapidly, and with the shortage of staff caused by the infection of medical staff, Yu Changping has become a problem.
最终，余昌平同意了让妻子来送饭。
Eventually, Yu agreed to let his wife deliver the food.
在余昌平离死亡最近的几天里，他从没看见妻子哭。
In the days leading up to his death, Yu Changping had never seen his wife cry.
“她每次都在笑，有时候还会故意惹我生气。
"She laughs every time and sometimes tries to make me angry.
我生气就吼她，我说你离我远点，她故意离我近点。
I yelled at her when I was angry, I said you stay away from me, she deliberately close to me.
她说你能够和我吼，说明你还可以。
She said you could yell at me to show that you were okay.
”但后来妻子也开始咳嗽了，经过CT检查，也确诊为新冠肺炎，但症状较轻。
But she also began to cough and was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia on CT, although the symptoms were mild.
生病后，妻子也住进了同一间病房，两人各在一个角落，相互远远地看着。
When she got sick, she moved into the same ward, each in a corner, looking at each other from afar.
恢复良好的她每天都在房间里跳舞。
She dances in the room every day.
余昌平的妻子在病房里跳舞。
Yu Changping's wife is dancing in the ward.
受访者供图在被轮椅推去照CT后的两周，余昌平呼吸困难的症状逐渐好转。
In the two weeks after being wheeled out for CT scan, the symptoms of dyspnea gradually improved.
“我有活过来的信念。
"I have the faith to live.
”在接受媒体采访时，他说自己的身体素质本身就比较好，抵抗性强，能和这个病毒打下去。
In an interview with the media, he said he was physically fit, resistant and able to fight the virus.
此外，虽然呼吸困难，但能吃能喝能睡。
In addition, although breathing difficulties, but can eat, drink and sleep.
“烧退了我就能吃，我呼吸不畅时吃不动，我慢慢吃。
"I can eat if I burn back, I can't eat when I can't breathe, I eat slowly.
我要有抵抗能力，要有精神，吃了就有命啊。
I want to be defensible, energetic, and live if I eat.
科普新冠病毒成“网红”“你是不是很好奇，我好像戴着氧气（罩）。
"You're not really curious. I seem to be wearing oxygen.
是的，我也感染了。
Yeah, I'm infected, too.
我什么时候感染的，谁感染我的，这是个很难回答的问题，因为我接触过很多病人，因为我冲在最前面，总是会感染的。
When I got infected, who infected me, is a difficult question to answer, because I have come into contact with a lot of patients, because I run in the front, always infected.
”余昌平在一个短视频里说。
"Yu Changping said in a short video.
视频里的他穿着蓝白格纹的衬衣，戴着氧气管和黑色口罩，鼻梁顶部的条形疤痕已经结痂。
He was wearing a blue-and-white shirt, an oxygen tube and a black mask, and scabby scars on the top of his nose.
为了让声音清晰，他把口罩耷拉在下巴上，露出缺块的门牙。
To make his voice clear, he lowered his mask over his chin, revealing the missing front teeth.
这是2月1日，他入院治疗第16天时拍的第一条短视频，累计获得上千万播放量。
It was the first video he had taken on Feb. 1, 16 days after he was admitted to hospital, and he received tens of millions of broadcasts.
在鬼门关闯了一遭，余昌平的身体渐渐恢复。
After a terrible accident at Ghost Gate, Yu Changping's health gradually recovered.
武汉本地一家传媒公司邀请他开通短视频。
Wuhan local media company invited him to open a short video.
怀着做知识普及的目的，他一次性发去了50多分钟的视频素材，后被剪辑成多个短视频发布在网上。
With the aim of popularizing his knowledge, he sent out more than 50 minutes of video material at a time, which was edited and posted on the Internet in several short videos.
视频里的他坐在病床上，吸着氧，面对手机镜头谈对新冠肺炎的体会。
In the video he sits on the bed, sucks the oxygen, faces the mobile phone lens to talk to the new crown pneumonia experience.
“以前看病等七八个小时，住院等好多天，到处跑，流动的传染源呐，这里找医院，那里找医院，很大的问题。
"I used to wait seven or eight hours to see a doctor, stay in hospital for many days, running around, the source of infection, here to find hospitals, there to find hospitals, big problems.
现在都明显的改善，很有信心，是真的很有信心，你看我一直在笑嘛，一个我性格就这个样子，给点阳光就灿烂，再一个笑代表信心，笑代表力量，我想给你们信心和力量。
Now obviously improved, very confident, is really very confident, you see I have been laughing, a character like this, to give a bit of sunshine on the brilliant, and a smile on behalf of confidence, smile represents strength, I want to give you confidence and strength.
”视频里，余昌平操着一口武汉口音的普通话，双手配合语气变换着手势，有时候跷起大拇指，有时候指着自己咧嘴笑，有时候竖起拇指举过头顶。
In the video, Yu Changping speaks Mandarin with an Wuhan accent, gesture with his hands in tune, sometimes twitching his thumb, sometimes grinning at himself, sometimes raising his thumb above his head.
他的视频多用自己或身边医生的发病故事作为开头，然后讲新冠肺炎的临床表现、治疗注意事项和预防措施。
His video begins with a story about himself or a doctor around him. Then he tells the clinical manifestation, treatment and precautions of Newcastle Pneumonia.
他说的最多的几句话是“不用怕”、“很好搞的”。
The most that he said was "Don't be afraid" and "It's all right."
他表示，目前大众对新冠肺炎的了解有限，这是民众心理恐慌的根源，而他可以用自己的专业经验弥补这一点。
He said the public's limited knowledge of pneumonia was a source of psychological panic, which he could make up with his professional experience.
评论区，有网友说看余昌平的视频能够缓解焦虑，压抑多天的心情变得越来越好。
In the comments section, some netizens said watching Yu Changping's video can ease the anxiety, suppress the mood for many days become better and better.
留言大多是祝他和妻子早日康复的，也有网友讲述亲人的生病症状，向余昌平咨询治疗方案。
Much of the message is to wish him and his wife a speedy recovery, there are also netizens to tell the illness symptoms of their loved ones, Yu Changping consulting treatment programmes.
“极力地面带微笑，轻松表述自己的病情，是为了不给大家传递负能量，加油啊医生，你的乐观一定能赶跑病毒的。
"Try to smile and speak easily about your condition so you don't have to send a negative message. Come on, Doctor, your optimism will drive away the virus.
”一位网友评论道。
"commented a netizen.
他简洁明快的语言风格吸引了大量网友，有人叫他余舅舅、余爹爹，还有人叫他余可爱。
His concise and bright language style attracted a large number of netizens, he was called uncle, father, and someone called him cute.
他说，拍视频的本意是让更多人了解新冠肺炎，结果自己却被宣传成了“网红”。
He said the video was meant to make more people aware of pneumonia, but he was touted as "net red."
他最怕出名了，但看到越来越多人在关心他，他不能半途而废。
He was most afraid of fame, but seeing more and more people caring about him, he couldn't give up halfway.
后来再发新视频的时候，他会把衬衣的纽扣扣好，头顶的发丝都统一梳向一个方向。
Later, when a new video is released, he will button his shirt and comb the top of his hair in one direction.
“用武汉话说，恐慌个毛线，天塌下来有长个子顶着，疾病来了，我们医务人员们会冲在前面，没什么可怕的。
"In Wuhan dialect, there is panic, the sky is falling, there are long men against the disease, we medical staff will rush ahead, nothing to be afraid of.
”他在视频里说。
"he said in the video.
住院期间，他累计发布了几十条短视频，粉丝总数超过了350万。
While in hospital, he released dozens of short videos with more than 3.5 million fans.
同科室感染的医护人员大都康复岁末年初，武汉天气阴冷，也是每年呼吸科医生最繁忙的时间。
Most of the hospital staff in the same departments recovered. The weather in Wuhan was cold and cloudy at the beginning of the year.
1月7日前后，医院的情况开始和往常不一样：往年的同期也会出现病毒性肺炎的患者，平均每月一到两个；但今年，他一次性会诊了不下五名患者，后来都以病毒性肺炎收治入院。
Around January 7, the situation at the hospital began to look different: viral pneumonia cases also occurred in the same period in previous years, averaging one to two per month; this year, however, he treated no fewer than five patients at a time and was later admitted with viral pneumonia.
那段时间，他和同事还是戴着口罩，穿着白大褂正常上班。
During that time, he and his colleagues still wore masks and white coats to work normally.
直到住院，他才第一次见到有穿防护服的医生。
It was not until he was hospitalized that he first saw a doctor in protective clothing.
和余昌平同一批确诊的还有一名医生，再后来，他所在科室陆续有十多名医护人员感染。
Yu Changping and the same batch of confirmed doctors, and then, his department has been infected with more than a dozen medical personnel.
余昌平说，他们都是在疫情早期感染的，目前大部分人已康复出院。
'They were all infected early in the epidemic and most of them have now recovered and been discharged, 'Mr. Yu said.
2月24日，中国-世界卫生组织联合专家考察组通报，全国共有3387名医务人员感染新冠病毒，包括确诊病例2055例，其余为疑似病例和临床病例；其中90.4%来自武汉。
On February 24, a joint China-WHO expert mission reported that 3,387 medical personnel had been infected with the new crown virus, including 2,055 confirmed cases and the remainder suspected and clinical cases, 90.4 per cent of whom were from Wuhan.
中国疾控中心发布的一份报告显示，医疗物资匮乏、床位紧缺、人员调度困难等导致医疗人员超负荷工作，生理心理压力大，这或许是医疗人员防护失败的原因之一。
Lack of medical supplies, lack of beds and difficulties in dispatching staff have led to overwork and physical stress, which may have contributed to the failure of medical personnel, according to a report released by the China CDC.
余昌平说，疫情刚暴发时病人数量多，且防护不到位，加上新冠病毒的强传染性，造成了医护人员的批量感染；这也加重了特殊时期医护人员短缺的情况。
Mr. Yu said the high number of patients and inadequate protection at the onset of the outbreak, coupled with the highly contagious nature of the new crown virus, had led to mass infections among health-care workers, which also exacerbated the shortage of health-care workers during special periods.
“有的时候（病毒传染）偷偷摸摸的，静悄悄的，医护人员感染很正常。
"Sometimes [the virus is contagious] is secretive and quiet, and it's normal for health care workers to get infected.
但是现在医护人员感染少了，防护做得好，引起了重视。
But now health care workers are less infected, well protected, attracted attention.
”17年前，余昌平和其他30多名医护人员在医院的发热门诊，抗击SARS感染引起的非典型性肺炎。
"Seventeen years ago, Yu and more than 30 other medical workers went to the hospital's fever clinic to fight SARS.
“那时候更重视，防护搞得很好的，那时候防护就跟我们现在的防护差不多，我们后来都没有医务人员感染，”他说。
"It was more important then, the protection was good, it was about as good as what we have now, and we didn't have medical staff infected later," he said.
SARS的高死亡率和病情的快速演化曾让他焦急，但这次的新冠肺炎他没觉得可怕。
The high death rate and rapid evolution of SARS had worried him, but this time he did not feel terrible about his new crown pneumonia.
他告诉记者，虽然两次的应对情况相似，甚至有所重复，但新冠肺炎从普通型往重型进展的速度偏慢，给了医生更多治疗和抢救的时间，只要及时治疗，死亡风险很小。
He told reporters that while the responses were similar or even repeated, the slow progression of new crown pneumonia from the normal to the heavy had given doctors more time to treat and save, with little risk of death if treated promptly.
25日，他的妻子连续两次核酸检测为阴性，也达到出院标准。
On February 25, his wife tested negative for two consecutive nucleic acid tests, which also met the discharge criteria.
余昌平说，隔离结束后，他会重回医生岗位，到时候忙碌起来，不一定再有时间拍摄视频。
After the quarantine ends, Mr. Yu says, he will return to his job as a doctor and get busy without necessarily having time to make a video.
以前有空的时候，他喜欢看武侠电视剧。
He used to enjoy watching martial arts dramas when he was free.
但最近他看得很少，因为他也在忙着“行侠仗义”，只不过敌人是小到看不见的病毒。
But he has seen little of it lately, because he, too, is busy "doing chivalrous justice," only the enemy is too small to see the virus.
洋葱话题▼你看过新冠病毒的科普视频吗？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读公卫专家：临床角度不讲拐点，以疫情宣告结束为准29岁殉职医生彭银华的最后20天封城之后，金银潭医院的昼与夜既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell us why you're doing itWhy don't you come back = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“网红”医生余昌平：重症归来。
"Net red" doctor Yu Changping: the return of serious illness.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "“网红”医生余昌平：重症归来";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "net red" doctor Yu Changping: Rerked from serious illness;;
var msg_desc = "他希望能通过自己的讲述，让更多人能科学清晰地认识疾病，知道如何防范不会恐慌。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he hopes his own account will help more people understand the disease scientifically and clearly, and how to prevent panic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '公卫专家：临床角度不讲拐点，以疫情宣告结束为准',。
Public health expert: Not at the point of inflection clinically, but at & apos; s service at the end of the epidemic.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '29岁殉职医生彭银华的最后20天',。
Last 20 days with Dr. Pang Yinhua, a 29-year-old doctor who lost his life.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '封城之后，金银潭医院的昼与夜',。
Day and night at Golden and Silver Pool Hospital after the siege.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
