武汉：一条与肺炎赛跑的餐饮供应链。
Wuhan: A catering supply chain running against pneumonia.
凤凰网美食。
Order of Phoenix delicacies.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
我是下面这篇文章的作者，凤凰网美食频道的编辑，1月26日，频道的工作群除了大家拜年信息之外，一位同事转发来的图片让我深受感动。
I am the author of the following article and editor of Phoenix Internet Gourmet Channel. On January 26, in addition to your New Year message, I was deeply moved by the pictures forwarded by one of my colleagues.
这位同事是武汉人，她和众多无法与家人团聚的武汉人一样担心着自己的家乡，担心自己的亲人。
This colleague is Wuhan, she and many can not be reunited with the Wuhan people worried about their hometown, worried about their relatives.
所以我们决定在这个寒冷的冬天，讲述发生在她家乡的，这张图片背后的暖心故事。
So we decided to tell the story of the warm heart behind this picture in her hometown on this cold winter day.
我根据这位同事提供的图片信息，采访到了故事的主人公邱贝文女士，随着采访深入，我与几位受访者都成为了好朋友，从他们身上，也看到这座被称为“江城”的省会背后所蕴含的侠骨柔情。
As the interview progressed, I became good friends with several interviewees, who also saw the chivalrous tenderness behind the provincial capital known as "Jiangcheng."
一1月29日午餐时分，我和受访者说明了采访的意图，她发来信息：“我现在很忙，晚点回复你。
At lunchtime on January 29th, the interviewee and I explained the intention of the interview and she sent a message: "I'm busy right now. I'll get back to you later.
”30分钟之后，她打来电话。
"After 30 minutes, she called.
电话那头是个年轻的声音，急促，没有闲白，我们心照不宣地直奔主题——她的名字叫邱贝文，90后……1月25日凌晨4:47分，身处全国疫情最严重的区域，邱贝文和数以千万的武汉人一样辗转难眠，新闻里每一次数字的跳动都牵动着全国人民的心。
At the other end of the line there was a young voice, short and white, and we went straight to the subject - her name was Qiu Baiwen, 90, January 25, 4: 47 am, in the worst epidemic region of the country, Qiubaiwen and tens of millions of Wuhan people, the beating of every number in the news touched the hearts and minds of the whole nation.
她终于做出一个艰难的决定——发出一条朋友圈，称自己经营的餐厅可以为更多的武汉医护人员提供餐食。
She finally made the tough decision to send out a circle of friends saying that the restaurants she ran would feed more Wuhan paramedics.
其实从1月23日武汉封城那天起，她已经为附近的几家医院送了好几天的饭菜。
In fact, since the day Wuhan was closed on January 23, she has served several days of food to nearby hospitals.
邱贝文和她的丈夫所经营的餐厅“捌号仓库”位于武汉市黄陂区，武汉天河机场附近，本来是以海鲜烧烤为主打的小餐厅在肺炎期间经营的项目变成了炒菜、盒饭。
Qiu Bevan and her husband run a Dutiable Warehouse near Wuhan Tianhe Airport, Huangpi District, Wuhan, where a small restaurant run by a seafood grill during pneumonia has turned into fried food and boxed rice.
捌号仓库离武汉集中收治肺炎患者的几间大医院距离都不算近，即使这样，邱贝文还是决意将配送范围扩大到整个武汉市区。
Even though the Dutian Warehouse is not too close to Wuhan's main hospitals, Qiu Bevan is determined to extend the distribution to the whole district of Wuhan.
“朋友圈发出来之前，我也有向员工们询问意见，员工们都很支持，表示愿意加入，但是当朋友圈真发出来以后，他们的家人看到都非常担心，死活不让他们乱跑。
"Before the circle of friends came out, I also asked the staff for advice. The staff were supportive and willing to join, but when the circle of friends did come out, their families saw that they were very worried and didn't want them to run.
我能理解他们的家人，无论怎样，直到现在我也很感谢这些员工们对我的鼓励。
I can understand their families, however, and until now I am grateful for the encouragement they have given me.
”邱贝文的朋友圈已经发出来了，员工却不能到场，天色渐亮，邱贝文看不到将这件事继续做下去的希望。
Winston Churchill's circle of friends was already out, but the staff were unable to show up, and Churchill saw no hope of continuing the business.
没想到的是她的弟弟妹妹们主动发来微信请求加入，这样一来人手问题就勉强解决，邱贝文将自家的车和店里里外外进行消毒——这在武汉早就成为一道非常必要的工序。
Unexpectedly, her younger brothers and sisters volunteered to join the letter, so the staffing problem was reluctantly solved, Qiu Bevan disinfect his car and store inside and outside the store - a process that had long been necessary in Wuhan.
“我们是要收费的，但是我们一分钱都不赚”她说，“本来我们每份餐食的定价是8元、10元，但是现在整个武汉买菜都成问题，即使能买到的菜也相当贵，所以我们最后定价是15元，两荤一素。
"We charge for it, but we don't make a cent," she said. "We originally priced it at 8 yuan and 10 yuan per meal, but now the whole Wuhan is a problem. Even when we can buy very expensive dishes, we set the final price at 15 yuan, exactly two meat and one vegetable.
我们不能在这个时候赚钱，但是我一定要收费，因为我们是小本生意，只有存活下来才能帮助更多的人。
We can't make money at this time, but I have to pay because we are a small business, only survive to help more people.
”邱贝文的朋友圈登上了央视新闻，把这个消息第一时间分享给她的是邱贝文的姐姐，评论区清一色的理解和支持也增加了邱贝文继续做这件事的决心，她说：“但凡是了解武汉现状的人都知道我在做的事是非常危险的，危难关头永远是命在前面，钱在后面，何况我们也真的不赚钱。
"But anyone who knows the situation in Wuhan knows that what I am doing is very dangerous, that money is behind us and that we really don't make money," Qiu said.
”采访到这里，电话那头的邱贝文一直笃定坚毅，但是当我问及邱贝文：“在灾难面前，医生是易感人群，面对他们的时候你会怕吗？”她愣了一会儿，坦言道：“我很怕，哪怕我现在跟你打电话的时候，手也在抖。
Churchill, who spoke on the other end of the line, was adamant, but when I asked Qiu Bei-wen, "Is a doctor a susceptible person in the face of a disaster, are you afraid of them?" She paused for a moment and confessed, "I'm afraid, even if I'm calling you now.
”邱贝文是这次疫情中压力最大的人之一——她今年28岁，是一个孩子的妈妈，家里也有老人要照顾，动员全家的力量去做这样一件事需要比她这个年龄段的单身年轻人承担更多的责任。
Churchill was one of the most stressed people in the epidemic - a 28-year-old mother of a child with elderly people to care for - and mobilizing the family to do such a thing would require more responsibility than single young people of her age.
“也正是我有孩子，所以我才想做这些事情。
"I have children, and that's why I want to do these things.
因为如果连到我们武汉来支援的一线医务人员的餐食都不能保障，这个疫情会越来越严重。
Because if even our Wuhan to support the front-line medical staff food is not guaranteed, the epidemic will become more and more serious.
”她说。
'she said.
邱贝文和她的丈夫经营餐饮行业已经有些年头，家里有送餐的面包车，之前也提供过配送服务，在1月26日武汉实行私家车管制之前，邱贝文和弟弟妹妹们自己开车为医务工作者送餐，也正是这段时间，她更直观地感受到了生命的分量。
Churchill and her husband, who had been running the restaurant business for years, had van-delivery vans and had previously provided distribution services. Before Wuhan imposed private car controls on January 26, Qiu and her younger brothers and sisters drove their own cars to deliver meals to medical workers.
她说，大部分医务工作者都会让她把餐食放在医院大门口，他们自己来取，就是为了减少和她的接触。
She said most health workers would let her leave her meals in front of the hospital gates, and they would pick them up themselves to cut down on contact with her.
令他印象最深的是一个23岁的护士妹妹，她看到邱贝文之后远远地和她打招呼，大声叫着“姐姐，姐姐！”前一秒钟还是惶恐的邱贝文就在那一刻收获了一份勇气。
What impressed him most was a 23-year-old nurse and sister who greeted Qiu Bevan from afar, shouting "Sister, Sister!" Qiu Beven, who had been frightened for a second, gained courage at that moment.
二1月26日起，武汉中心城区实行机动车管制，除了6000辆出租车和310辆公交车之外，只有少数志愿者的车辆在申请之后可以在大街上行驶。
With the exception of 6,000 taxis and 310 buses, only a few volunteer vehicles will be allowed to drive on the streets after applying for them.
邱贝文的私家车在被管制的范围之内，食物的运输和调配工作只好交由志愿者代劳。
Qiu Bevan's private car is under control and the transport and distribution of food has to be done by volunteers.
王琛，武汉土著，36岁，经营一家信息化公司，两个月前母亲因为患病离开人世。
Wang Chen, a 36-year-old native of Wuhan, runs an information-based company and died of illness two months ago.
当他决意要做志愿者时，他的父亲没有表态，只是在他临行前说了一声：“注意安全。
When he decided to volunteer, his father did not say anything, just before he left: "Please be careful.
”其实比起自己染病，王琛更担心的是他年迈的父亲。
In fact, Wang Chen is more worried about his elderly father than about his illness.
每次回家父亲都会迎过来询问志愿工作的进展，却每次都被王琛制止：“不要过来，去阳台等我，等我消完毒再说！”王琛说，因为封城来得突然，医护人员交通不便是大家首先想到的，其次考虑到随即而来的用餐需求，所以他们组建了“车队志愿者群”和“医护用餐群”。
Every time my father came home, he was stopped by Wang Chen: "Don't come over and wait for me on the balcony until I finish the poison." Wang Chen said that because of the sudden closure of the city, medical staff transportation is the first thought, and in view of the immediate food needs, they formed a "fleet of volunteers" and "medical group.
群内的志愿者由社会爱心人士组成，所有人都想在武汉遇到困难的时候贡献自己的力量，哪怕能做的不多，做一点是一点也是好的。
The volunteers in the group are made up of caring people. All of them want to contribute their strength when Wuhan is in trouble. It is good to do a little, if not much.
大年三十，王琛和其他志愿者们彻夜未眠，开始自发地组建团队分配任务：志愿者从信息对接、搭建平台、筹款捐款、资金管理、联络车辆、医院和餐饮等事项开始形成了一套分工明确的执行链条。
During the Spring Festival, Wang Chen and other volunteers stayed up all night and began to organize their own teams to assign tasks. Volunteers began to form a clear implementation chain on matters such as information docking, setting up platforms, fund-raising donations, fund management, liaison vehicles, hospitals and catering.
王琛告诉我，他们的群里还有两位一直奋战在前线的医生，不仅要治疗患者，还要帮我们提供需要接送或者需要餐食的医护团队联系方式。
Wang told me that there were two doctors in the group who had been fighting on the front lines, not only to treat patients, but also to provide us with the contact information of the medical team that needed to deliver or need food.
“第一个阶段是信息匹配，当时网络信息量很大，我们这些志愿者建群的初衷是建立群平台让供给和需求精确匹配，解决交通和用餐需求。
"The first phase was information matching, when there was a lot of information on the network, and we volunteers were built to create a group platform to match supply and demand accurately and to address transportation and dining needs.
事发当天朋友圈有很多餐饮经营者的信息都被他们自发公布出来，他们主要是把本来准备在过年时期用于经营的储备食材，免费贡献出来提供给医护人员。
On the day of the incident, a lot of information about catering operators were released by them, they mainly used in the Chinese New Year to operate the reserve materials, donated free of charge to medical personnel.
”王琛说。
"said Wang Chen.
收集到这些零散的信息之后，王琛会第一时间对供应端网络信息进行核对，筛选出真实的信息。
After collecting these scattered information, Wang Chen will be the first time to supply the end network information to check, screen out the real information.
王琛说，像捌号仓库这样的餐馆还有很多，但是最后主要选择捌号仓库的原因是：捌号仓库位于武汉黄陂区的盘龙城，相对而言食材比市内的餐饮店更容易采购，后续供应也能跟上。
Wang Chen said there were still many restaurants such as Dutiable Stores, but the reason why many of them were mainly used was that Dutian Warehouse was located in Panglong City, Huangpi District, Wuhan.
在需求端，王琛还要负责收集整理医护人员的中餐、晚餐需求，收集信息之后还要进行信息配对，提供效率最高的供应方案。
On the demand side, Wang Chen is also responsible for collating the needs of medical staff for lunch and dinner, gathering information and matching information to provide the most efficient supply options.
“第二阶段要解决的是资金问题，餐饮库存消耗完之后，这些餐饮企业无法一直提供无偿服务，我们就组织了朋友们募捐，继续免费供应给医护人员。
"The second stage is going to be about money. When we run out of food and beverage stocks, these restaurants can't always provide pro bono services.
群里正好又有注册会计师，请他们对每一笔收入和支出做账，我们用社会各界的爱心支撑餐饮店的经营。
The group also happened to have a certified public accountant, ask them to account for each income and expenditure, we use the love of the community to support the operation of restaurants.
”他说。
'he said.
高峰时期，王琛的团队一天送给医院的餐食达到600多份，覆盖的医院包括：六七二医院、五医院、协和医院、中部总医院等。
During the peak period, Wang Chen's team sent more than 600 meals a day to hospitals, including 672hospital, 5hospital, concorde hospital, central general hospital, etc.
车队的爱心车主一天接送医护人员上百趟。
Loving motorists on motorcades carry medical staff hundreds of times a day.
需求量最大的时候，吴王春秋餐饮公司的老板吴总主动联系志愿者，表示愿意不计成本地为王琛他们供应餐食，除此之外吴总还承接了其他大型团餐，在原材料紧缺的情况下，1月28日当天还是承担了200份的餐食送达六七二医院。
Wu, the owner of Wu's Chunqiu Restaurant Company, volunteered to serve them meals at no cost to Wang. Besides that, Wu also took on other large meals and delivered 200 meals to the 672 hospital on January 28 when raw materials were in short supply.
王琛所在的团队是专门负责送餐的，他告诉我：“我们另外那个接送医护人员出行的群，在不忙的时候也会送餐——我们把盒饭对接好后，也会在这个群里发信息，有空闲的车主也会主动帮忙。
Wang Chen, whose team specializes in delivering meals, told me: "Our other group, which takes in paramedics, also delivers food when not busy - and when we dock the boxed meal, we send messages to the group and the owner of the free car offers to help.
这里很感谢武汉优秀的车主朋友们，不辞辛劳，不计成本。
Here thanks to Wuhan excellent car owners and friends, hard work, regardless of the cost.
”现在，武汉官方已经建议社会车辆不要通行，志愿者的车辆也包含在内，这也是处于对他们的保护。
Wuhan authorities are now protecting volunteers, who have been advised not to use their vehicles.
官方提供了一批司机名单和联系方式，那些驾驶员的防护比王琛他们更加到位。
Officials provided a list of drivers and contact details, and those drivers were better protected than Wang Chen.
王琛也在第一时间响应了政府号召，在三个群里都发出公告。
Wang Chen also responded to the government's call in the first time, in the three groups issued a notice.
王琛说：“现在我们也还有剩余的善款没用完，我们考虑和美团之类的外卖平台联系，看如何帮助到医护一线，完成我们的初衷。
"We are running out of money left over," Wang said. "We will consider contacting delivery platforms such as the US Mission to see how we can help reach the front line of care and achieve our goals.
”同时王琛也请求更多看到这篇文章的读者提供建议。
Wang also asked for more advice from readers of the article.
当我问及王琛更多他们遇到的困难时，王琛表现出的乐观让我始料未及。
When I asked Wang Chen more about the difficulties they encountered, Wang Chen showed optimism that I did not expect.
他说：“一切都开始变好，但我们仍需要时间……”像王琛这样的志愿者是更易感染的人群——他们从年三十晚上就开始支援接送，当时的防护并不充分，车队里甚至有人用雨衣来做防护。
"Everything is starting to get better, but we still need time..." Volunteers like Wang Chen are a more vulnerable group - they've been supporting pick-ups since the late 30s, when protection was inadequate and raincoats were even used.
面对未知的疾病，他们身上承担着远超常人的压力和恐惧。
In the face of unknown diseases, they bear far greater human stress and fear.
按王琛的话说：“我们没有人不怕的。
"None of us is afraid," Wang Chen said.
”但是，医疗物资的补给到来之后，天气逐渐放晴，在前线帮助接送医务人员的志愿者也开始陆续收到医护人员给的口罩、消毒水、酒精等物资，这是让他们意料之外的。
But as supplies began to arrive, the weather cleared, and volunteers helping to transport staff on the front lines began to receive, to their surprise, masks, disinfectant, alcohol and other supplies from medical staff.
在送餐的时候，医务人员将防护物资打包好，放上感谢信，消毒之后送给前来送餐的志愿者。
At the time of the meal, medical staff packed the protective gear, put a thank-you note, disinfected it and sent it to the volunteers who came to deliver the meal.
他说，这一刻，就像一束光穿破黑暗。
This moment, he said, was like a beam of light piercing the darkness.
解决了志愿者防护的问题，又有新的问题出现——在为医护人员送餐的过程中，因为市内找不到餐馆，捌号仓库的位置又相对偏远，群内的志愿者因为市内道路的层层管控，需要很长的通行时间。
The problem of volunteer protection was solved, and a new problem arose - the lack of restaurants in the city and the relative remoteness of the Dutiable Warehouse during the delivery of food to health-care workers, and the long hours required for volunteers in the group to control the city's roads.
加之餐食供应不足，餐厅能提供的数量终究有限，有时候餐食供应不过来，志愿者只能去便利店买些意面、三明治以及零食搭配起来，确保餐量的充足。
Coupled with a lack of food, the restaurant supplies are limited and sometimes food is not available. Volunteers will have to go to convenience stores to buy pasta, sandwiches and snacks.
谈及邱贝文和她的捌号仓库，王琛非常感动，他说邱贝文从始至终都是自发地投入工作，每天只睡三四个小时，一间小小的门店，每天为医院供应近600份餐食。
Wang was very moved to talk about Qiu Bevan and her dutiable warehouses. He said Qiu Bai-wen worked spontaneously from start to finish, sleeping only three or four hours a day, a small store and nearly 600 meals a day for hospitals.
同样让他感动的还有那些接送餐的司机，他们很踊跃、主动地去帮助邱贝文打包餐食，为了保障餐食到达医护人员手里还是热的，他们甚至还会分批取餐，然后绕路把餐食送到医护人员手里。
He was also moved by the drivers, who enthusiastically and willingly helped Qiu Bai-wen pack their meals. They even picked them up in batches to make sure they reached the paramedics, then made a detour to get them to the paramedics.
采访的最后，王琛笑着对我说：“我们昨天为团队想好了一个名字，叫‘楚啦A梦’，这个团队里有做信息化企业的、律师、媒体人、注册会计师、银行、通讯、国企等好多行业的优秀从业者，还有很多人直到现在也没有透露过他们的职业技能，但是我们感觉这次大家做起事来好像机器猫一样啥都有，啥都能行，希望我们是武汉的机器猫。
At the end of the interview, Wang said with a smile: "We thought of a name for the team yesterday," Chulla A dream, "a group of information-based enterprises, lawyers, media people, chartered accountants, banks, communications, state-owned enterprises, and many people have not disclosed their professional skills until now, but we feel like we can do anything, hope we are Wuhan machine cat.
”三“姐姐，姐姐！”小雅对着远处那个陌生的女孩面孔招手呼喊，她不敢再上前，只有看到邱贝文走远才敢叫上同事将几百份餐食搬上病房。
"Sister, Sister!" Xiaoya waved to the face of the strange girl in the distance. She dared not go any further than to ask her colleagues to bring hundreds of meals to the ward.
小雅今年23岁，是武汉某医院的一名普通护士。
Xiaoya, 23, is an ordinary nurse at a hospital in Wuhan.
当我试图了解关于她更具体的一些信息时，她说：“我只是一名普普通通的医务工作人员，穿着这一身白衣才有砥砺前行的勇气，像我这样的医务人员还有很多。
When I tried to get some more specific information about her, she said, "I'm just a mediocre medical worker who has the courage to forge ahead in a white suit, and there's a lot of medical staff like me.
”再问别的问题，小雅就不再回复了，我知道她又开始了新一轮和病魔的斗争。
"Asking other questions, Xiaoya stopped answering, and I knew that she was once again engaged in a new struggle with the disease.
采访暂停，我试图从小雅的朋友圈中了解一些她最近的工作和生活。
The interview was suspended and I tried to learn a little about her recent work and life from Xiaoya's circle of friends.
小雅所在的医院，是省内一所历史悠久的公立专科医院，主治的科目原本和传染病八竿子打不着，但是在疫情肆虐期间，这所医院也成为了该地区收治肺炎患者的定点医院之一。
Xiaoya's hospital, a long-established public specialized hospital in the province, had a history of fighting infectious diseases, but it also became one of the hospitals designated to treat pneumonia patients in the area during the epidemic.
大年三十当天，小雅接到院领导安排，赶往医院上夜班。
On New Year's Day, Xiaoya received the hospital leadership arrangements, rushed to the hospital night shift.
如果说今年全国的除夕夜比往年少了一些热闹，那么对于武汉来说用“苍凉”二字来形容也毫不为过。
If this year's New Year's Eve is a little less lively than in previous years, then for Wuhan, the word "desolate" is no exaggeration.
即使这样，小雅还是穿上了大红色的外套，把头发剪短，像无数正值花季的巾帼英雄一样投入到紧张的治疗中——武汉的新年有了温度。
Even so, Xiaoya wore a big red coat and cut her hair short, putting her hair into intense therapy like countless heroines during the flowering season - Wuhan has a warm New Year.
为了不耽误小雅的时间，我将问题整理好以微信的形式发给她，一再表示：“等你有时间的时候再回，发语音什么的都好。
In order not to delay her time, I arranged the question and sent it to her in the form of a letter, saying, "I'll come back when you have time.
”再回我信息的时候，已经是第二天清晨，小雅说：“不好意思，我刚下夜班。
"When I got back to you, it was early next morning, and Xiaoya said," I'm sorry, I've just come on the night shift.
”随后，几条语音断断续续地发来。
Subsequently, several voices came intermittently.
听罢，我开始惭愧于自己之前对于医护人员“辛苦”的浅薄认知。
As I listened, I began to feel ashamed of my previous superficial knowledge of the "toil" of medical staff.
“我们现在是三班倒，每个人上六到八小时班。
"We are running three shifts, with each taking six to eight hours.
我们穿的防护服非常紧缺，而且很贵，消耗也大，所以我们一穿就是六到八个小时，甚至更多。
The protective clothing we wear is scarce, expensive and expensive, so we wear it for six to eight hours or more.
这样的话，我们穿上隔离服的那一刻起，就不能吃饭，不能喝水，不能上厕所，所以我们不仅要减少失水，还需要尿不湿来解决排便问题。
In this way, we can't eat, drink or use the toilet from the moment we put on our quarantine suits, so we not only need to cut down on water loss, but also need to urinate to solve the problem of defecation.
当然对于医务工作者来说，不能按点吃饭这已经是再正常不过的事了”小雅说。
Of course, it's perfectly normal for medical workers not to eat by order, "said Xiaoya.
这些需求，作为志愿者的王琛和其他心系医院的爱心人士们都看在眼里——1月28日当天，150箱饮料、200箱面包、50箱尿不湿和20个取暖设备送达小雅所在的那间医院。
These needs were seen by Wang Chen, a volunteer, and others at the heart of the hospital - 150 boxes of drinks, 200 boxes of bread, 50 cases of wet urine and 20 pieces of heating equipment were delivered to the hospital where Xiaoya was on January 28.
小雅告诉我，对他们而言，温饱已经不是当下最困难的问题，最难的仍是医疗物资的紧缺，比如外科口罩、N95口罩、防护服、隔离衣、医用手套……这些是他们直接面对肺炎患者所必须的物资，如果少了这些东西，他们面临的感染威胁也会很大。
She told me that food and clothing were no longer the most difficult problems. The most difficult ones were still medical supplies, such as surgical masks, N95 masks, protective clothing, protective clothing, medical gloves... these were the things they needed to deal directly with patients with pneumonia, without which they would be at great risk of infection.
如果连医务人员都感染了，病人也就更得不到保障。
If even medical staff are infected, patients are less secure.
所以她也恳请社会各界人士通过各个方面的渠道筹集一些可靠的防护用品。
So she also implore people from all walks of life to raise some reliable protective equipment through various channels.
邱贝文说当她看到小雅的时候，那个23岁的小女孩给了她勇气，我问小雅：“面对疾病，你害怕吗？”“我不怕！”她斩钉截铁地回答我，“只要当我进了医院的大门，穿上那身防护服，我就绝对不会害怕。
Churchill said that when she saw Xiaoya, the 23-year-old gave her courage, and I asked her, "Are you afraid of the disease?" "I'm not afraid!" She answered firmly.
如果我都害怕了，那些患者，或者是还没有确诊或疑似确诊的病人，他们怎么办？”她说：“很多希望我们已经能够感受得到，有的患者已经平安出院，一些被感染的医务人员也已经被治愈，他们又重新穿上了防护服和隔离衣，重回抗击肺炎的第一线——对我们而言这就是勇气。
If I'm scared, what will they do with the patients, or with patients who have not been diagnosed or are suspected? "She says," A lot of people want us to be able to feel that some patients have been discharged safely, that some infected medical personnel have been cured, that they are back in protective clothing and protective clothing and back on the front line in the fight against pneumonia - that's courage for us.
”透过小雅发来的语音，我对邱贝文所言的那份力量感同身受。
"Through the voice sent by Xiaoya, I felt for Qiu Bevan's share of strength.
我没有见过小雅，但是无疑她透过语音传递给我的是一个坚毅的眼神、一袭白衣所赋予的23岁女孩的勇气。
I didn't see Xiaoya, but no doubt what she delivered to me via voice was a determined look and the courage of a 23-year-old girl in white.
目前和小雅一样奋战在武汉疫情一线的医护人员一共有超过十万人，他们有的是武汉土著，有的来自于全国其它省市地区。
There are more than 100,000 medical workers in Wuhan, some of whom are native to Wuhan and some from other provinces and municipalities.
无论这星星之火来自何处，和他们毕业时所宣读的《希波克拉底誓言》或者《南丁格尔誓言》一样，这些站在风暴中央的人，更直观地感知着关于生死的全部分量。
No matter where the spark comes from, like the Hippocratic Oath or the Nightingale Oath they read at graduation, these people in the middle of the storm are more intuitively aware of the full weight of life and death.
（尊重受访者意愿，小雅为化名，其余所出现人名均为真名）选题：余张笑丹策划：王振宇采访：陈不诌撰文：陈不诌编辑：孙祎图片：均来自受访者（邱贝文  王琛小雅）。
(Respecting the wishes of the interviewee, Xiaoya is a pseudonym, and the rest of the names are real names.) Writing by Wang Zhenyu, I am writing to you from the interviewee (Wang Chen Yi).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉：一条与肺炎赛跑的餐饮供应链。
Wuhan: A catering supply chain running against pneumonia.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "武汉：一条与肺炎赛跑的餐饮供应链";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan: A restaurant supply chain that ran against pneumonia;;
var msg_desc = "除了医务工作者，还有很多“其他人”，这些站在风暴中央的人，更直观地感知着关于生死的全部分量。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
