特别报道 | 一名发热患者如何能离开封了城的武汉且顺利进入北京？。
How did a feverish patient leave the sealed city of Wuhan and make it to Beijing?
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
作者 |第一财经马晓华 刘展超李攻2月26日，北京发布一例新冠肺炎确诊病例信息引发舆论关注。
BEIJING, Feb. 26, 2008 Information on a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia caught the attention of public opinion.
北京市东城区崇外街道新怡家园社区居委会通过微信公众号发布确诊病例提示，称H女士2月22日从武汉来京，当日被隔离检查，3名亲属已进行集中隔离医学观察，并由区疾控中心等部门对其住所和楼内公共区域进行了全面专业的消杀，请居民不必过度担心。
On February 22, 2008, Ms. H. came to Beijing from Wuhan and was examined incommunicado. The three relatives conducted intensive medical observation, and the district CDC and other departments carried out a comprehensive professional elimination of their homes and public areas inside the building, please do not worry too much.
H女士系武汉当地监狱刑满释放人员，在武汉当地已有发热症状，2月22日由家属开车接回北京。
Ms. H., a former convict released from Wuhan local prison, had fever symptoms there and was taken back to Beijing by her family on February 22.
在新冠肺炎疫情扩散后，武汉市1月23日已经开始实行封城政策，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭，坚决防止疫情向其他地区扩散。
Following the spread of the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, Wuhan city on January 23 began to implement the closure policy, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation suspended; airports and railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed, resolutely to prevent the spread of the epidemic to other regions.
在武汉严格实行封城政策之际，为何该病例能够自行返京？此外，由于该确诊病例为刑满释放人员，是否符合相关条件，可以在封城之际离开武汉？根据第一财经的采访，以及北京疾控中心26日下午发布的信息，可以初步还原该病例的离汉返京以及被收治的时间线。
In addition, as the confirmed case is a released person who meets the relevant conditions, he / she can leave Wuhan on the occasion of the city.According to an interview with First Finance and the information released by the Beijing CDC on the afternoon of May 26, the patient's departure from Han back to Beijing and the time line of admission can be preliminarily restored.
2月18日开始，黄女士开始间断性发热并持续五天，伴咽部不适，当时居住地为武汉。
From February 18, Ms. Huang began intermittent fever and lasted five days, with pharyngeal discomfort, then residing in Wuhan.
2月22日凌晨2时，黄女士由其北京的一位家属自行驾车抵京，经体温筛查后入住其家属所在的东城区新怡家园小区7号楼。
At 2 a.m. on February 22, Ms. Huang arrived in Beijing by car with a family member from Beijing. She was screened for body temperature and moved into the 7-building of Xinyi Home District in Dongcheng District, where her family is living.
家属向社区报告情况并服从统一安排，22日，社区安排专人去他家门口进行封门。
Family members reported the situation to the community and complied with the unified arrangements, 22, the community arranged for someone to go to his door to seal the door.
22日晚上八点左右，黄女士作为武汉进京人员被送至集中隔离点隔离观察。
Around 8: 00 pm on the 22nd, Ms. Huang was sent to the central isolation point as Wuhan Jinjing personnel to observe.
其中一位家属也被一同接走。
One of the family members was also taken away.
2月23日19：00，黄女士因发热由急救车转运至东城区普仁医院发热门诊进行排查。
At 19: 00 on 23 February, Ms. Wong was transferred by ambulance for fever to the fever clinic of Puren Hospital in Dongcheng District for screening.
23号晚上，黄女士的其余两位家属被当作密切接触者被相关部门接走。
On the evening of the 23rd, Ms. Huang's other two family members were picked up by the authorities as close contacts.
2月24日，黄女士在北京被确认为新冠肺炎确诊病例，并转运至市级定点医院隔离治疗。
On 24 February, Ms. Huang was confirmed as a confirmed case of pneumonia in Beijing and transferred to a municipal designated hospital for isolation and treatment.
23日，两名家属被相关部门接走结合各方信息可发现，该病例虽然在北京被确诊，但并未纳入北京病例统计。
23, two family members were picked up by the relevant authorities combined with information found that although the case was diagnosed in Beijing, but not in Beijing case statistics.
对这位患者的具体情况我们不好多做揣测，相信会有更多的信息被挖掘出来。
It is difficult for us to speculate more about the patient's condition and believe that more information will be uncovered.
我们更多关心其中的疑点，也就是匪夷所思的地方。
We are more concerned about the suspicion, that is, the unthinkable place.
其一，在武汉市作为重点疫区早已采取封城措施之后，为何还有已经确诊的病例能够走出武汉。
First, in Wuhan as a key epidemic area has already taken measures to seal the city, why has there been confirmed cases can be out of Wuhan.
从武汉出城，到抵达自己的家中，中间的层层设防，这位患者竟然顺利通过了。
From Wuhan out of the city, to their homes, the middle layers of fortification, the patient unexpectedly passed.
难道真的像电影《天下无贼》中的一句台词：形同虚设？与此形成鲜明对比的是，第一财经2月13日曾报道称，一位回湖南探亲的人士，一家三口自驾车回工作地内蒙古最终被“劝回”，他们一家走了近3000公里。
In sharp contrast, a family of three who drove home to work in Inner Mongolia were eventually "persuaded" to return to work after a visit to Hunan province by a family of nearly 3,000 kilometers, according to a report on Tuesday.
与上述这位患者相比，这中间的差别，颇为耐人寻味。
Compared to this patient, the difference between the two is rather intriguing.
其二，武汉的封城措施是否得到了真正的贯彻落实。
Secondly, whether Wuhan's measures to seal the city has been truly implemented.
在疫情扩散后，武汉市1月23日已经开始实行封城政策，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭，坚决防止疫情向其他地区扩散。
Following the spread of the epidemic, Wuhan city on January 23 began to implement the closure policy, the city's public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation suspended; airports and railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed, resolutely to prevent the spread of the epidemic to other regions.
这位患者的经历是否说明，在疫情防控方面，一些措施还停留在纸面上，停留在表格中，停留在视频会议中，停留在层层表态中。
Does the patient's experience suggest that, in terms of disease control, some measures remain on paper, in forms, in videoconferences and in statements?
今日，武汉市长热线表示：封城之后没有通道可以离开武汉，任何机构都不能办理离开武汉的通行证，只能等政府的通知。
Today, Wuhan city director hotline said: After the closure of the city can not leave Wuhan, any organization can not deal with the pass to leave Wuhan, can only wait for the notification of the government.
这里需要解答的是，这位患者发热后怎么不及时处理，还要放其离开武汉。
What needs to be solved here is, this patient is feverish how cannot process in time, still want to let it leave Wuhan.
如果没有“通行证”，这是不可能的，是哪个部门发放了这个“通行证”？其三，在疫情防控过程中，是否还有一些领域的漏洞需要弥补。
If there is no "pass," this is not possible, which department issued the "pass"? Thirdly, in the course of disease control, there are still some gaps to be filled.
这可能是一个“盲区”，但“盲区”带来的影响是巨大的，甚至可能影响到疫情防控的总体走势。
This may be a "blind area," but the impact of the "blind zone" is enormous and may even affect the overall course of disease prevention and control.
其四，由于该确诊病例为刑满释放人员，这就涉及到了监狱管理体制问题，比如监狱内的服刑人员对疫情如何防控，服刑期满的释放人员如何防控等。
Fourth, as the confirmed case is a person released from prison, this has implications for the prison management system, such as how to prevent and control the disease among inmates and how to prevent and control the release of persons who have served their sentences.
由此而引起的后续影响不单在上述案例上，某省因为监狱的疫情，对这个时间段刑满释放人员进行了严格管控，同时，也对该监狱相关工程的施工人员进行了严格隔离。
This has had repercussions not only in the above-mentioned cases, but also in the strict control of persons released from prison in one province as a result of the outbreak of the disease, and the strict segregation of the staff working on the prison-related projects.
如何对特定人员进行特定防控？2月26日下午，北京市疾控中心对黄女士病例作出回应称：根据我国《传染病信息报告管理规范》第四部分第二条规定，病例归属以发病时的住址为准。
In the afternoon of Feb. 26, the Beijing CDC responded to a case of Ms. Huang by stating that according to the second part of Part IV of the Regulations on the Reporting of Infectious Disease Information, the attribution of a case should be based on the address at the time of the outbreak.
该病例发病时住址不在北京，故不属于我市发病病例。
The case at the time of the address is not in Beijing, so it is not a case of illness in our city.
一位知情人士也告诉第一财经，黄女士为武汉当地监狱刑满释放人员，属于武汉确认病例，应该已经纳入当地病例数据统计之中。
A person familiar with the matter also told First Finance that Ms. Huang, an ex-convict at Wuhan local prison, belongs to Wuhan confirmed case and should have been included in the local case statistics.
新怡家园社区居委会通过微信公众号发布H女士确诊病例提示时也明确表示，2月24日，新怡家园小区7号楼3单元出现一名新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例(非北京市确诊病例)。
The New Yee Homeland Community Neighbourhood Committee, in issuing a case alert for the confirmed case of Ms. H via the micro-letter public, also made it clear that on 24 February, there was a confirmed case of pneumonia (non-Beijing confirmed) of a new coronavirus infection in Unit 3 of Building 7 in the New Yee Home quarter.
26日晚，第一财经记者从湖北省司法厅一位工作人员处了解到，目前正在调查了解（黄女士病例）相关情况。
26 night, the first financial reporter from the Hubei Province Department of Justice from a staff, is currently investigating the situation (Ms. Huang case).
新怡家园社区居委会表示，已对新怡家园小区开展封闭式管理,请各位居民不必过度担心,更无需恐慌，家中保持通风,注意个人卫生，勤洗手，出门注意佩戴口罩，并主动配合疫情防控工作，积极承担个人防控责任。
The New Yee Homeland Community Neighbourhood Committee said it had closed its doors to residents, asking them not to worry too much, let alone panic, keep ventilation, observe personal hygiene, wash their hands frequently, go out and wear masks, and take active personal responsibility for prevention and control of the disease.
新怡家园社区居委会还提醒，近期从湖北来（返）京人员请立即联系社区居委会登记相关信息，并留下联系方式。
Xinyi Home Community Committee also reminded that recently from Hubei (returned) Beijing personnel please contact the community committee to register the relevant information, and left contact information.
一位监狱系统人士告诉第一财经，在当前疫情防控期间，对刑满释放人员，应该做好衔接处置。
A prison system source told First Finance that during the current epidemic prevention and control period, released prisoners should be well connected to the disposal.
如果他要前往外地，应告知其目前疫情防控的要求，劝阻其前往，至少监狱不得为其购买前往某地的车票或机票。
If he wants to travel to the field, he should be informed of the current requirements of disease control and be discouraged from travelling, at least for whom the prison cannot purchase a ticket or air ticket to a particular location.
这位人士还表示，监狱方面还应通知当地或者前往目的地的防疫部门，做好收治工作。
The person also said that the prison should also notify the local or to the destination of vaccination departments, good reception.
官方数据显示，截至2月23日，湖北监狱系统现有罪犯确诊病例323人，其中武汉女子监狱279人，沙洋汉津监狱43人，省未成年管教所未1人；现有疑似病例10人。
As of February 23, 323 cases had been confirmed in the Hubei prison system, including 279 in Wuhan women's prison, 43 in Shayang Hanjin prison and 1 in provincial juvenile correctional facility.
据湖北日报报道，针对26日网传一名刑满释放新冠肺炎确诊人员离汉抵京的有关情况，湖北省委书记应勇同志作出批示：在疫情防控最吃劲的关键阶段，竟发生此类严重违反离汉离鄂通道管控的事件，绝不能允许。
According to Hubei Daily, on the 26th, according to the report, a case of a convicted prisoner released from Xinguan Pneumonia arrived in Beijing. The secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party, Comrade Ying Yong, issued an order that such serious violations of the control of the Hubei passage should not be allowed during the most strenuous period of epidemic prevention and control.
要迅速查清事实，依纪依法严肃处理，及时回应社会关切。
We should promptly ascertain the facts, deal with them strictly according to law and promptly respond to social concerns.
此事还是否涉及其他违法违纪问题，也要彻查。
Whether the matter also involves other violations of discipline should also be thoroughly investigated.
不论涉及到谁，都要一查到底。
Whoever's involved, we need to find out.
离汉离鄂通道管控事关全国疫情防控大局，要坚持“全国一盘棋”，吸取教训，举一反三，切实把各项管控措施落到实处。
The control of the Hubei passage bears on the overall situation of national epidemic prevention and control. We should stick to the "whole country as a whole," draw lessons from it, and implement various control measures in practice.
2月26日，经中央政法委批准，司法部牵头，由分管副部长刘志强带队，会同中央政法委、最高人民检察院、公安部组成联合调查组，赴湖北就武汉女子监狱一名刑满释放人员感染新冠肺炎到京事件展开调查。
On 26 February, with the approval of the CPPCC, the Ministry of Justice led a joint investigation team led by Deputy Minister Liu Zhiqiang, together with the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, the Supreme People's Procuratorate and the Ministry of Public Security, to Hubei to investigate the case of an ex-convict from Wuhan Women's Prison.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 一名发热患者如何能离开封了城的武汉且顺利进入北京？。
How did a feverish patient leave the sealed city of Wuhan and make it to Beijing?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 一名发热患者如何能离开封了城的武汉且顺利进入北京？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; How a feverish patient left the sealed city of Wuhan and entered Beijing successfully?
var msg_desc = "在武汉严格实行封城政策之际，为何该确诊病例能够自行返京，目前相关部门尚未回应。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Why the confirmed case returned to Beijing at the time of Wuhan's strict city closure policy has not been answered.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
