水貂、狐狸、貉子移出可食用名录背后：人畜共患病阴影。
Sable, Fox, Hezi Move Out of the Edible List: The Shadow of Common Disease between Man and Animal.
章轲。
Ke Ke.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
你已选中了添加链接的内容26.02.2020本文字数：2394，阅读时长大约4分钟导读：专家建议，尽快重新审定《畜禽遗传资源目录》，将水貂、貉、鹿科动物，鸵鸟科、雉科等人工繁育饲养的陆生野生动物移除作者 | 第一财经 章轲水貂、狐狸、貉子的毛皮穿在身上了，肉去哪了？这些野生动物的肉能吃吗？今天（26日），这个问题又有人提出来了。
The expert recommends that the Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources be re-examined as soon as possible to remove the fur of mink, raccoon, deer, ostrich, pheasant and pheasant. Where is the meat? Can the meat of these wild animals be eaten today (26)?
2月24日召开的十三届全国人大常委会第十六次会议，表决通过了《全国人大常委会关于全面禁止非法野生动物交易、革除滥食野生动物陋习、切实保障人民群众生命健康安全的决定》（下称《决定》）。
The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) adopted the Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) on a comprehensive ban on illegal wildlife trade, eliminating abuses of wildlife, and ensuring people's lives, health and safety (hereinafter referred to as the Decision).
《决定》明确，国务院及其有关部门和省、自治区、直辖市应当依据本决定和有关法律，制定、调整相关名录和配套规定。
The Decision clearly stipulates that the State Council, its relevant departments, provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government shall formulate and adjust relevant directories and corresponding regulations in accordance with this Decision and relevant laws.
第一财经昨日刊发了《全面“禁野”后，哪些野生动物还能吃？》的文章后，很快收到了多家机构的回应。
First Finance yesterday published an article on "Which wild animals can eat after the total ban?" and soon received a response from many organizations.
中国绿发会行动亚洲基金发起人苏佩芬对第一财经记者表示，2003年，原林业部公布54种商业性经营利用驯养繁殖技术成熟的陆生野生动物名单中，将水貂、狐狸、貉此类野生动物的养殖列入成功养殖物种。
In 2003, the former Ministry of Forestry published a list of 54 species of land-based wild animals that are ripe for commercial exploitation using domesticated breeding techniques, adding ferrets, foxes and raccoon-raccoon-like wildlife to successful breeding species, Soo Peifen, founder of the China Green Development Council Action Asia Fund, told First Financial News.
原农业部《中国畜禽遗传资源目录》（2017）也将银狐、蓝狐、水貂，貉等纳入禽畜名单中。
The former Ministry of Agriculture's Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources in China (2017) also includes silver foxes, blue foxes, mink and raccoons on the list of livestock.
这意味着水貂、狐狸、貉等野生动物可以进入食谱上桌。
This means that wild animals such as mink, fox and raccoon dog can enter the table.
但是，“从严重急性呼吸系统综合症（SARS）到新型冠状病毒肺炎COVID-19，一个可见的共同点是，此两类疾病都与不当或紧密接触野生动物有关。
But, "from severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) to COVID-19, a new coronavirus pneumonia, there is a clear common denominator that both diseases are associated with inappropriate or intense contact with wild animals.
”苏佩芬说，比照决定第二条和第三条，需要重视那些被纳入《禽畜资源目录》的野生陆生动物，如何对待这些野生动物将成为《决定》能否全面贯彻实施的关键。
In light of articles 2 and 3 of the decision, wildlife populations listed in the Livestock Resource Catalogue will need to be taken into account and their treatment will be key to the full implementation of the Decision, he said.
苏佩芬介绍，以水貂、狐狸、貉为例，一直以来，相关部门皆将其视为资源，推动皮毛动物的圈养，鼓励将皮毛动物养殖列入促进农村经济发展的一部分。
In the case of mink, fox and raccoon raccoon, authorities have long regarded it as a resource, pushing fur animals into captivity and encouraging fur farming as part of efforts to boost rural economies, he said.
皮草产业被视作一种低成本、高利润的产业。
The fur industry is seen as a low-cost, high-profit industry.
▲来源：河北某野生动物养殖基地里，水貂、貉子的胴体处理设备。
Source: The carcass processing equipment of mink and raccoon in a wild animal breeding base in Hebei Province.
摄影/章轲公开数据显示，水貂养殖的最大省份为山东省，约占全国水貂取皮总量的71.28%。
According to open data, the largest province of mink farming is Shandong Province, which accounts for about 71.28 per cent of the total number of skinned mink in China.
辽宁省位居第二位，约占17.54%。
Liaoning Province ranked second with 17.54 per cent.
黑龙江省位居第三位，约占6.19%。
Heilongjiang Province ranks third with about 6.19 percent.
狐狸养殖的最大省份也是山东省，约占全国狐狸取皮总量的40.55%。
The largest province of fox farming is also Shandong Province, accounting for about 40.55 per cent of all fox skins in the country.
河北省位居第二位，约占29.09%。
Hebei Province ranked second with 29.09 per cent.
辽宁省位居第三位，约占18.33%。
Liaoning Province ranked third, accounting for 18.33 per cent.
三个省份的狐狸取皮数量约占全国狐狸取皮总量的87.97%。
The number of fox skins in three provinces accounted for 87.97% of the national total.
貉子养殖的最大省份为河北省，约占全国貉子取皮总量的66.32%。
Hebei Province is the biggest raccoon farming province, accounting for 66.32 percent of the total fur taken by Hezi nationwide.
山东省位居第二位，约占24.85%。
Shandong Province ranked second with 24.85 per cent.
黑龙江省位居第三位，约占5.28%。
Heilongjiang Province came in third with 5.28 percent.
三个省份的貉子取皮数量约占全国貉子取皮总量的96.45%。
About 96.45 percent of the raccoon skins were skinned in the three provinces.
中国绿发会等机构的调查发现，存在不法分子将取皮后的水貂、狐狸、貉子肉冒充其他肉品，在食品市场销售的情况。
An investigation by the China Green Development Council and other organizations found that illegal elements were selling mink, fox and raccoon meat as other meat products in the food market.
在疑似新型冠状病毒起源的武汉华南市场，在野味餐厅菜单挂板上就公开列有贩售狐狸肉、水貂肉，或是活的水貂。
In Wuhan South China market, where a new coronavirus is suspected to have originated, fox meat, mink meat, or live mink are publicly listed on the menu of game restaurants.
据第一财经记者查询，中国工程院咨询研究项目《中国野生动物养殖产业可持续发展战略研究报告》（2017年）也介绍，我国毛皮动物每年有几千万只的胴体，产皮高峰年份的2015年貂狐貉毛皮动物的胴体高达9500万个左右，合计大约124万吨，这些动物胴体都让流动商贩收走，有的将其做成肉骨粉饲料，还有一大部分充当别的肉类进入市场上了餐桌，因未检疫，上了餐桌容易引发食品安全问题。
China's fur animals produce tens of millions of carcasses annually, and the carcasses of ferrets raccoon raccoon raccoon dogs in 2015 peak year amount to 95 million carcasses, totaling 1.24 million tons. The carcasses of these animals are collected by itinerant traders, some used for meat meal and a large portion for other meat.
据2013年青岛网络广播电视台“爱青岛”一篇题为《腐臭貂肉用来做火腿肠 民警调查被反跟踪》的报道，“剥了皮的貂肉，隔三岔五的，就有人趁着夜色拉走”“卖给了五莲县的一个非法加工点”。
According to a 2013 Qingdao Internet radio and television station "Love Qingdao," a survey entitled "Rotting mink used for leg and bowel police investigation was backtracked," the skin of mink meat, every three branches, someone took advantage of the night to pull away "" sold to a Wulian County illegal laboratory.
2014年1月10日中国经济网一篇题为《沃尔玛采购被曝涉利益输送：真假驴肉进价差10倍》的报道称，“刚开始生产商与沃尔玛合作过程中并不敢以狐狸肉代替驴肉，但在合作过程中，生产商发现沃尔玛监管并没有特别严格，后期很多环节形同虚设，生产商为降低成本在驴肉中掺了部分淀粉狐狸肉。
According to a report by the China Economic Network on January 10, 2014, "Wal-Mart purchases were exposed: 10 times the price difference between real and fake donkey meat," producers at the start of the partnership with Wal-Mart did not find fox meat as a substitute for donkey meat.
”市场上一斤生驴肉价格25元，熟驴肉价格达40元。
"The price was 25 yuan for one kilo of raw donkey meat and 40 yuan for cooked donkey meat.
有业内人士称，若以狐狸肉驴肉代替，进价差至少在10倍以上。
Industry sources said that if the fox meat instead of donkey, the price difference at least 10 times.
▲来源：山东某地的野生动物养殖场。
Source: wild animal farm in Shandong Province.
摄影/章轲2019年7月，光明网一篇题为《泡面辣条只是“冰山一角”，这些零食伤脾害胃，告诉孩子：不要吃》的报道称，“最便宜的一袋烤肠仅仅才18元，里面却足足有52根，平均一根才3毛钱。
In July 2019, Guangming Ke reported in a report entitled "Soak noodles are just the tip of the iceberg." These snacks hurt the stomach and tell children not to eat. "The cheapest kind of sausage costs just 18 yuan, but there are 52 of them, an average of just 30 cents a serving, he said.
”“业内人士爆料，正规一点的造肠厂，会用鸡大胸、鸡皮、鸭皮等做肠，然后用猪肉香精、红曲色素、防腐剂和淀粉增香、上色、填充；还有厂家会用狐狸肉、貂肉做，成本非常便宜”。
"" Insiders tell us that a regular intestinal factory will use chicken breasts, chicken skin, duck skin and so on, and then use pork essence, red pigment, preservatives and starch to fragrance, color and fill; and the factory will use fox, mink, very cheap. "
毕业于中山医科大学基础医学院的行动亚洲生命关怀教育总监张媛媛对第一财经记者表示，对于被《中国畜禽遗传资源目录》列入的水貂、狐狸、貉来说，在食品安全健康的议题下，关注的不仅仅是被取皮后肉的去向问题，更应该关注人畜共患病的问题。
Liu Yuanyuan, director of education for life care in Asia, who graduated from the School of Basic Medicine of Zhongshan Medical University, told the first financial reporter that Liu Yuanyuan, director of education for life care in Asia, is concerned not only with the destination of meat after being skinned, but also with the problem of zoonotic diseases.
张媛媛介绍，刊登在中华传染病杂志上的一项新型布尼亚病毒感染住院患者临床回顾性研究发现：68例患者中有22例为貂类养殖史或被貂咬伤史。
Liu Yuanyuan said a clinical retrospective study of inpatients with a new Bunia virus infection published in the Chinese Journal of Infectious Diseases found that 22 of the 68 patients had a stink culture history or a history of mink bites.
这68例患者均由威海市文登中心医院经实验室确诊，而文登水貂是山东省威海市文登市特产，被誉为全国农产品地理标志。
All 68 patients were diagnosed by the Wenden Central Hospital in Weihai City, while Wendeng Mink is a specialty of Wendeng city in Weihai City, Shandong Province.
研究还发现，水貂不但可以被人流感感染患病，也可以被H5N1型禽流感病毒感染，这也为病毒更进一步的复杂演化提供了机会。
The study also found that mink can be infected not only with human flu, but also with H5N1 avian influenza, which provides an opportunity for the virus to evolve further.
此外，水貂还有传染性海绵状脑病、冠状病毒性肠炎、布鲁氏菌病、附红细胞体病等。
In addition, mink have infectious spongiform encephalopathy, coronavirus enteritis, brucellosis, erythrocyte diseases and so on.
“因此，无论是从食用肉类带来的健康问题，还是养殖业的疫病风险，我们都可以看到，将狐狸、水貂和貉等列入《畜禽遗传资源目录》，极其危险。
"We can therefore see that it is extremely dangerous to include foxes, mink and racoons in the Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources, whether it is health problems caused by eating meat or the risk of epidemics in aquaculture.
”苏佩芬说，建议相关部门尽快重新审定《畜禽遗传资源目录》，将目录中的水貂、貉、鹿科动物，鸵鸟科、雉科等人工繁育、人工饲养的陆生野生动物移除，以切实保障人民群众生命健康安全。
"We recommend that the relevant authorities review the Catalogue of Animal Genetic Resources as soon as possible and remove the species from their catalogues, such as mink, raccoon, deer, ostrich and pheasant, so as to ensure the people's lives, health and safety.
为避免因交易、食用“野味”导致的公共卫生和健康危机事件重演，中国法学会环境资源法学研究会日前也建议，建立健全列入《人工繁育国家重点保护野生动物名录》的野生动物管理措施，包括人工繁育许可制度、生产专用标识，以及据此出售和利用该种群动物及其制品的可追溯制度。
To avoid a repeat of the public health and health crisis caused by trade and consumption of wild meats, the China Law Society's Research Institute of Environmental Resources Law recently recommended the establishment and improvement of wildlife management measures included in the List of Specially Protected Wild Animals, including an artificial breeding permit system, a production mark and a traceability system for the sale and utilization of animals and their products.
【相关阅读】这些陆生野生动物可能不能再吃，吃了就违法！（附名录）。
These terrestrial wildlife may no longer be eaten, and it is illegal to eat them!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
水貂、狐狸、貉子移出可食用名录背后：人畜共患病阴影。
Sable, Fox, Hezi Move Out of the Edible List: The Shadow of Common Disease between Man and Animal.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "水貂、狐狸、貉子移出可食用名录背后：人畜共患病阴影";。
var msg _ title = & quot; mink, fox, raccoon removed from the edible list: AT & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "专家建议，尽快重新审定《畜禽遗传资源目录》，将水貂、貉、鹿科动物，鸵鸟科、雉科等人工繁育饲养的陆生野生动物移除";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and recommends that the Animal Genetic Resources Directory be reviewed as soon as possible to remove or quot;; for mink, raccoon, deer, ostrich, pheasant and rhinoidae.
title: '这些陆生野生动物不能再吃，吃了就违法！（附名录）',。
A: These terrestrial wildlife can no longer be eaten, and it is against the law to eat them!
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '这些陆生野生动物不能再吃，吃了就违法！（附名录）',。
A: These terrestrial wildlife can no longer be eaten, and it is against the law to eat them!
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '这些陆生野生动物不能再吃，吃了就违法！（附名录）',。
A: These terrestrial wildlife can no longer be eaten, and it is against the law to eat them!
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
