翻滚的火锅市场，遇上疫情寒冰。
Rolling hot pot market, encountered an epidemic of cold ice.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
在餐饮业遭受重创的相关新闻下，通常会有两种声音。
There are usually two kinds of voices in the news that the restaurant industry has been hard hit.
一种鼓励店家们再坚持一会，另一种则忧心忡忡，「现在蔬果好贵，有的人在隔离期间还不开工资，出现报复性消费，又能持续多久呢？手上的钱都紧得很，我是不敢再大手大脚花钱了。
One encouraged the shopkeepers to hang on a little longer, the other worried, "How long can the fruits and vegetables be so expensive that some people don't get their pay while they're in quarantine, and retaliate? The money is so tight that I can't afford to spend any more.
」文｜史千蕙编辑｜萧祷「惨了，每一头牛每天都要瘦的」北漂女青年小琳始终记得她迄今为止最后一顿火锅。
Her mother, Christina, said, "Miserably, every cow needs to be thin every day." Xiao Lin, the northern blond girl, always remembers her last hot pot so far.
那是1月16日，在当时，新冠肺炎还是一个遥远的名词，口罩尚未走俏，大街小巷的人们还可以光着嘴自由呼吸，北京市朝阳区的川渝火锅、老北京涮羊肉、潮汕牛肉口锅、椰子鸡火锅俯首皆是。
It was January 16, when pneumonia was a distant term, masks were not yet in fashion, and people in the streets were free to breathe baremouthed. Sichuan and Chongqing hotpot in Beijing's Chaoyang district, old Beijing shabu shabu, Chaoshan beef pot, coconut chicken hotpot are all.
临近春节，小琳的那顿火锅是以素菜为主。
Near the Spring Festival, Xiao Lin's hot pot is mainly vegetarian dishes.
在此后的整整一个月里，有好几个夜晚，她望着天花板，眼前一个场景在反复播放：九宫格里沸腾的红油，翻滚的毛肚，趁着刚煮熟的那一刻，裹着蘸料放入嘴中。
For the rest of the month, as she looked at the ceiling for several nights, a scene played over and over again: red oil boiling in the ninja, tumbling maw, wrapped in the dip in her mouth just as it was being cooked.
镜头拉近，蘸料里的蒜泥清晰可见。
The camera zoomed in, and the garlic was clearly visible.
镜头拉远，整个餐桌上还有黄喉、肉片、豆皮、土豆……小琳不是唯一一个想吃火锅而不能的人。
The lens elongates, the entire table still has yellow throat, meat slice, bean skin, potato...... Xiao Lin is not the only person who wants to eat hot pot but can't.
根据热门微博的统计，疫情结束后人们最想吃的东西分别是炸鸡、奶茶和火锅。
According to popular microblogs, fried chicken, milk tea and chafing dish are the most popular foods after the epidemic.
前两者对着菜谱摸索，大致可以还原外面的口味，唯有火锅，操作上几乎没有难度，却最难复刻和朋友在火锅店涮肉的感觉。
The first two to the menu grope, can be roughly restored to the outside taste, only hotpot, operation almost no difficulty, but the most difficult to re-engraved and friends in the hotpot shop rinse meat feeling.
有的时候，聚在一起吃饭聊天，享受高水平服务、观看拉面表演，是与吃同样重要的事。
Sometimes getting together for dinner and chatting, enjoying high-level service and watching ramen noodles performances are just as important as eating.
与火锅爱好者们的望眼欲穿相比，在餐饮业普遍受到重创的这个月，火锅店老板们的生意遭到了更大的打击。
Hotpot owners' business has been hit harder this month, when the restaurant industry has been generally hard hit, compared with hotpot enthusiasts.
李翔是重庆根据地连锁火锅店一家分店的店长。
Li Xiang is the head of a branch store in Chongqing's chain of hotpot restaurants.
从腊月二十九停业放假到现在，他一直忧心忡忡。
From the close of business on the 29th of December to the present, he has been worried.
年三十的时候，他发现疫情越来越严重，街上无比冷清，只有超市和药店还坚持开着，「给我感觉比非典严重得多。
When he was in his thirties, he found that the epidemic was getting worse, the streets were so deserted, only supermarkets and pharmacies kept going, "It made me feel much worse than SARS.
」与大多数餐饮机构一样，春节是李翔的火锅店全年客流量和营业额最高的时候。
Like most restaurants, the Spring Festival is the year-round peak for Li Xiang's hotpot restaurant in terms of passenger traffic and turnover.
重庆人的家庭聚餐和朋友聚会，大多选在火锅店。
Chongqing people's family dinner and friends gathering, most of the choice in the hotpot shop.
往年春节，李翔的店面7天黄金周的销售额会在20万以上，是平常工作日的5倍。
In previous Spring Festival, Li Xiang's seven-day Golden Week sales will be more than 200,000, five times the usual workday.
如果没有这次疫情，他预计今年春节的销售额会在40到50万。
Had it not been for the outbreak, he would have predicted sales of 400,000 to 500,000 for the Spring Festival.
1月30日，他和几个员工去了一趟店里处理食材。
On January 30th, he and some of his employees went to the store to deal with the food.
他们清点了库存的食物，每人分了一些，然后在店门口摆了个摊，以低于成本价的价格卖给了路人。
They counted the food in stock, each divided up a few, and then set up a stand in front of the store and sold it to passers-by for less than cost.
李翔算了一下，这部分的亏损大概在2万元——如果不这么做，损失只会更多。
Li Xiang calculated that this part of the loss is about 20,000 yuan - if not, the loss will only be more.
许多火锅店选择直接卖菜来减轻亏损图源视频截图作为分店的店长，李翔需要操心的只是自己门店的盈亏。
Many hotpot shops choose to sell vegetables directly to mitigate loss-making source video screenshots as store directors, Li Xiang only needs to worry about the profits and losses of his own stores.
他不了解现金流的概念，也不担心整个火锅行业的走向。
He did not understand the concept of cash flow, nor did he worry about the direction of the entire hotpot industry.
让他焦虑的是当下的情况，还有后续几个月的长尾效应。
What worries him is the current situation, and the long tail effect for the next few months.
他的火锅店一共有40多张桌子，用餐高峰期时，客人们需要排一个小时的队。
His hotpot restaurant has more than 40 tables, and guests have to queue for an hour during the rush hour.
他想，除非等疫情彻底结束，否则聚餐都是危险的，不会有客人来。
'Unless the epidemic is completely over, 'he thought,' the party will be dangerous and there will be no guests.
但对于汕头八合里海记牛肉火锅的创始人林海平来说，问题要多得多。
But for Lin Haiping, founder of Shantou's eight Caspian Sea beef pot, the problem is much greater.
林海平拥有132家连锁店面，他把面对疫情的措施分成了三个步骤，「安全」、「止损」和「增收」，武汉的四家分店还处于第一阶段。
Mr Lam, who owns 132 chain stores, divided his response into three steps: "Safety," "Stop Losses" and "Increase Revenue." Wuhan's four branches are in the first phase.
自暂停营业开始的一个多月内，八合里的上百家店铺一共亏损了6000万元。
Since the suspension began more than a month ago, eight hundred stores in the octopus have lost 60 million yuan.
现金流大概够撑两个月，如果到第三个月情况依然没有改善，林海平准备出售自持物业。
Cash flow will last about two months, and if the situation does not improve by the third month, Lin is ready to sell his own property.
在亏损的6000万里，有2/3是硬性的损失，比如门面租金、人工费用和宿舍成本。
Of the 60 million miles lost, two-thirds are hard-and-fast losses, such as facade rent, labor costs and dormitory costs.
与门店配套的养殖场、屠宰场和中央厨房也跟着停业，又是一大笔钱。
Farm farms, slaughterhouses and central kitchens that go with stores are closed down, again for a large sum of money.
他还心疼他的牛——由于春节期间物流不通畅，八合里在年前运了很多未宰杀活牛到屠宰场。
He also loves his cows - because of poor logistics during the Spring Festival, octopus shipped many unslaughtered live cattle to slaughterhouses a year ago.
那些牛原本是越肥越好，油脂含量最高的胸口朥和五花趾是最受欢迎的两个部位。
Those cows used to be fatter, with the highest fat content of chest pains and five-toed flowers being the two most popular parts.
现在，牛在没有完全复工的屠宰场生活了一个来月，「惨了，每一头牛每天都要瘦的。
Now, cattle have been living in slaughterhouses that have not fully returned to work for a month or so. "Tragically, every cow is thinner every day.
」更多的是看不见的流失。
"More of an invisible drain.
「一些还在努力中的店，因为这一次疫情，它就被over了。
"Some shops are still trying, because of this outbreak, it is overrun.
」意思是，一些分店的经营状况不上不下，本来想趁着春节的客流挽救一下，但是本来翻滚的火锅市场却遇上化不开的疫情寒冰，这些店全部亏损，「有一点鸡肋」。
"Some stores are in poor condition and were hoping to save the flow of Spring Festival, but the overturning hotpot market was caught in an epidemic of cold ice. These stores lost money and" had a little chicken ribs.
这些「鸡肋」店面成了第一批被止损的对象，它们不只是「暂停营业」，而是彻底的关停。
These "chicken-ribbed" stores were among the first to be stopped, not just "off business," but shut down completely.
在八合里海记官方通知中，大一点的店面用到的词是「暂停营业」，部分店面用到的则是「结业」图源南方日报出于自救的无奈之选馋的时候，小琳想过自己在家打火锅。
In the official notice on the octahetian Caspian, the word used in the larger stores is "business suspension," and in some cases, "finished" Tu Yuan Southern Daily out of desperation to save their own time, Xiao Lin thought of their own home hotpot.
她算了一笔账：家里囤的食材如果用来涮火锅，一两顿就吃完了，如果做成炒菜，精打细算，可以撑一周。
She calculated an account: If the family hog materials used to rinse hot pot, a meal or two finished, if made into fried vegetables, careful calculation, can last a week.
她也想过买自热火锅，但在一个近300人的美食交流群里发问后，每个买过自热火锅的人，都斩钉截铁告诉她「不好吃」。
She also thought about buying a hot pot, but after questioning her in a group of nearly 300 people, everyone who had bought a hot pot told her "it wasn't good."
自热火锅市场从2017年起爆发，三年间迅速扩张到近百亿级别。
The self-heating hotpot market, which began in 2017, expanded rapidly to nearly 10 billion levels in three years.
根据电商平台的数据统计，从2020年除夕夜到年初九，京东以自热火锅为代表的方便食品成交金额增长了3.5倍，苏宁的自热火锅品类销量同比增加了370.27%，小龙坎、自嗨锅和海底捞的天猫旗舰店数据显示，本月以来，仅麻辣牛肉口味的自热火锅单品的销量，就分别突破了1万、2.5万和3万。
According to statistics from the electric business platform, from New Year's Eve 2020 to the ninth day of the year, the transaction value of convenience food represented by self-heating hotpot increased by 370.27 percent, while sales of spicy beef-flavored self-heating hotpot items alone have surpassed 10,000, 25,000 and 30,000 respectively since this month, according to statistics from the Tiantong hotpot.
李翔所在的火锅店，也曾在2018年左右推出过自热火锅，试图赶上潮流。
Li Xiang's hotpot shop, also in 2018 or so launched a self-heating hotpot, trying to catch up with the trend.
研发成本和宣发费用加在一起，一共砸进去几百万。
The cost of research and development and the cost of advocacy add up to millions.
然而，自热火锅市场和传统速食市场相近，消费者会本能信任速食企业相关品牌，或是全国布局的餐饮企业，如全国连锁的海底捞和小龙坎。
However, since the self-heating hotpot market is similar to the traditional fast-food market, consumers will instinctively trust fast-food company-related brands or nationally-located restaurants, such as the national chain of bottom fishing and minnows.
李翔所在的火锅店是重庆本土品牌，尽管也在四川、山东、河南和贵州开有分店，却始终没有突破。
Li Xiang's hotpot shop is a local Chongqing brand, although it also has branches in Sichuan, Shandong, Henan and Guizhou, but has not broken through.
最终，仅仅过了半年，刚研发出来的自热火锅就停止生产了，刚运营起来的淘宝店也跟着关了。
In the end, only half a year later, the self-heating hot pot just developed stopped production, and the newly opened Taobao store closed down.
在自热火锅的凑合和吃不到的堂食火锅之间，还存在第三种选项，火锅外卖。
There is a third option, hot pot take-out, between the self-heating hot pot and the uneatable soup pot.
疫情到来前，火锅外卖是一部分连锁火锅店额外营收的来源。
Before the outbreak, hot pot take-out is part of the chain of hot pot stores additional revenue sources.
根据美团点评在2019年推出的《中国餐饮报告》显示，火锅外卖市场的发展瞩目。
According to the U. S. group review launched in 2019 in the "Chinese Food Report," the hot pot take-out market development attention.
主打一人食小火锅的呷哺呷哺曾在2018年的上半年大力推广外卖业务，外送业务收入同比提升了120%。
The first half of 2018 saw a strong expansion of the take-out business, with outbound revenue up 120 per cent year on year.
常年需要排队的海底捞，推出了由独立部门运营、只做外送业务的门店。
Years of queuing up the bottom fishing, launched by an independent department to do only the business of outsourcing stores.
据海底捞的财报显示，从2017年到2019年，外卖业务的订单量和销售额分别增长了47.9%和40.9%。
From 2017 to 2019, orders and sales for the take-out business grew by 47.9 per cent and 40.9 per cent, respectively, according to earnings from the bottom line.
不过，一些对于食材质量或是用餐场景有要求的老板，是不太乐意开通外送业务的。
However, some of the quality of food or dining scene requirements of the boss, is less than willing to open the delivery business.
林海平是其中一个。
Lin Haiping is one of them.
潮汕牛肉火锅对于肉质的要求高，开到外地的大型连锁牛肉火锅店，不少都有自己的屠宰场、供应链和中央厨房，以保证客人吃到的牛肉是尽可能新鲜的。
Chaoshan beef pot for meat quality requirements high, open to the field of large chain beef hotpot, many have their own slaughterhouse, supply chain and central kitchen to ensure that the guests eat beef as fresh as possible.
以八合里来举例，一头牛从被宰杀到吃，不会超过6小时。
Take octopus, for example, where a cow is slaughtered and eaten for no more than six hours.
因此，尽管八合里早就开通了外送，也只配送炒粿条一类的主食。
Therefore, although octopus has long opened the delivery, but also distribution of fried rice kway and other staple foods.
市面上的火锅外卖主要分为两种，一种会将火锅食材烫熟，再配送给顾客，如呷哺呷哺和井格。
There are two main types of hot pot take-out on the market, one of which will cook the hotpot ingredients and then distribute it to customers, such as sipping and well-grooming.
另一种提供炉具锅具租赁和回收服务，配送生鲜和锅底，如海底捞。
Another provides boiler rental and recycling services, distribution of fresh and pot bottom, such as bottom fishing.
林海平此前没有关注过外卖市场，这段时间他研究了一下，发现有的外卖存在过度包装，也有的使用回收型的配套设施，如锅炉租赁，但「成本太高了，成本永远嫁接在客户（身上）」。
Mr. Lin, who hadn't looked at the take-out market before, studied the takeout and found that some were overpackaged and others used recycling facilities, such as boiler rental, but "too expensive and the cost is always passed on to the customer."
有的火锅店，会指派员工去客人家里烫火锅，「一个不认识的人，他老是在那边，要不然就坐在一起吃嘛，在一边看，我觉得别扭。
Some hotpot shop, will assign the staff to the guest's home hot pot, "a person who does not know, he always there, or sit together to eat, side by side, I feel awkward.
」他觉得略带诡异。
"He felt a little strange.
在餐饮行业，火锅是一个特例，它包含了线下社交属性，服务的附加值也更大。
In the restaurant industry, hotpot is a special case, it contains offline social attributes, service added value is also greater.
36氪去年年底发布的《火锅行业研究及消费者调研报告》显示，「火锅是人们外出就餐的常见选择，过半消费者外出就餐次数中有10%-30%选择火锅，且以70-130元中高档火锅居多。
"Hotpot is a popular choice for people to eat out," Krypton said in a report published at the end of last year. "More than 10% to 30% of consumers eat out, with 70-130 yuan for medium and high-end saucepans.
」在大众的感知里，选择中高档与他们所提供的服务有关。
In the public perception, the choice of medium to high grade is related to the services they provide.
许多以服务著称的火锅店经常会为食客带来特色表演服务图源视觉中国外卖锅底和菜品，是许多火锅店在遭受疫情冲击前从未想过的事，是如今出于自救的无奈之选。
Many hotpot restaurants, known for their service, often bring special service to diners. Visual Chinese take-out pots and dishes are things that many hotpots never thought of before the epidemic hit, and are now a desperate choice to save themselves.
经历了持续亏损后，2月10日，八合里海记开始推出外卖业务。
After continuing losses, the octahetian Caspian Sea began selling out on Feb. 10.
由于配套的中央厨房尚未复工，那些开通外卖业务的门店，只好由门店员工捶牛肉丸。
As the supporting central kitchen has not yet been reopened, those who open takeout business, had to knock on beef balls by store staff.
林海平有点无奈，因为这样会导致每家店的牛肉丸在口感上有些微的不同。
Lin Haiping a little helpless, because this will lead to each store of beef balls in the taste of a little different.
他还担心现切的牛肉如果不是一送达就开始吃，会极大影响口感和体验。
He was also concerned that raw beef, if not served immediately, would greatly affect taste and taste.
临时入局，赶鸭子上架，许多火锅外卖只能过过嘴瘾，如果较真用餐体验，是不能和堂食相比的。
Temporary admission, driving duck son on shelves, many hotpot take-out can only be too addictive, if a more authentic experience, and can not be compared with Don.
八合里现有的外卖包装比较简陋，只是一次性的塑料盒，底部垫上一片生菜叶。
Eight HeLi existing take-out packaging is relatively simple, is a disposable plastic box, the bottom cushion on a piece of lettuce.
社交网络的实时动态也显示，八合里的外送由于不提供电磁炉和一人食套装，流失了一些潜在客人。
The real-time dynamics of social networks also show that the outbound delivery of octopus has lost some potential guests by not providing induction cookers and one-man-eat packages.
此外，外卖如何保证食材的新鲜，也是新入局商家们需要着手解决的问题。
In addition, take-out how to ensure the fresh food materials, is also the new entrants need to address the problem.
在知乎上，有人提问「新型冠状肺炎疫情期间，在家点外卖安全吗？疫情期间可以点外卖吗？」一位东北网友匿名回答：「昨晚点了猪肉酸菜锅烙，肉馅发粉紫色，是不是没熟啊，早上醒来胸口不舒服，现在低热，我两天没出门了，大家外卖可别乱点了……」新冠病毒的接触式传播方式，也让消费者们对点外卖这件事，始终做不到如往日的放心。
"Is it safe to order take-out at home during the new outbreak of coronary pneumonia? Can you order take-out during the outbreak?" Anonymous reply by a netizen from the Northeast answered anonymously: "I ordered pork pickle pot last night, meat stuffing purple, is not ripe ah, woke up in the morning chest discomfort, now hot, I did not go out in two days.
尽管各大外卖平台和自行配送的餐饮品牌们纷纷推出「无接触配送」，对于病毒的恐惧还是会让点外卖的人少上一些——社交平台上天天都有人喊着要吃牛肉火锅，在八合里开通外卖后，平均的销售额仅有堂食的30%。
While major takeaway platforms and home-grown food brands are rolling out "touch-free distribution," fear of the virus is still less common among take-out customers, who are yelling daily on social platforms to eat beef hotpot and averaging 30 per cent of what they sell when they open takeout restaurants in the city.
30%已经是难得的数字了。
Thirty percent is already a rare number.
这或许得益于潮汕火锅对于牛肉的独特切割方法，导致离开潮汕当地后，消费者们只能去牛肉火锅店买到这种切割方法的生肉。
This may be due to Chaoshan hot pot for beef unique cutting methods, resulting in leaving Chaoshan local, consumers can only go to beef hotpot shop to buy this method of raw meat.
在这次疫情中，这个特性表现得更为明显：如果想吃川渝火锅、老北京涮羊肉、东北酸菜锅，乃至猪肚鸡、椰子鸡，生鲜电商平台都有可能满足需求。
In this case, this feature is even more obvious: If you want to eat Sichuan and Chongqing hotpot, old Beijing shabu-shabu, northeast sour cabbage pot, even pork belly chicken, coconut chicken, the fresh electric business platform may meet the demand.
唯有牛肉火锅，只能指望店家开通外卖。
Only beef hotpot, can only hope that the store opened take-out.
一些受肉质影响较大的火锅店面会特别提供窗口，让食客来取餐代替外卖图源八合里海记官微大不了一切赔光没有生意可以做了，但李翔所在的火锅店至今也没有开通外卖服务。
Some hotpot restaurants that are heavily influenced by meat offer special windows where diners can take their meals instead of takeaway. The Caspian Sea recorder is a big loser. There is no business to do, but Li Xiang's hotpot restaurant has yet to open a takeaway service.
「重庆这个地方，火锅店太多了，楼下几乎都有，不会点外卖。
"Chongqing is a place with too many hotpot shops and almost everything downstairs that doesn't order take-out.
火锅外卖带到家里，还要自己煮，这些挺麻烦的。
It's troublesome to take out a hot pot and bring it home and cook it yourself.
」与他的判断不同，馋火锅的重庆人们在憋了近一个月后，已经开始了对火锅外卖的报复性消费。
"Contrary to his judgment, Chongqing's greedy hotpot customers have been retaliating for take-out after nearly a month of holding back.
根据中国新闻网在2月21日的报道，截至20日，重庆一共有72家火锅店开通了无接触配送服务，3天的销售总量超过1万单，总销售额接近300万。
As of February 20, a total of 72 hotpot shops in Chongqing have opened non-contact distribution services, with a total sales of more than 10,000 units over three days and a total sales of nearly 3 million people.
下单的时刻多是在凌晨和半夜，小琳盯着天花板那些时刻，发出的「预点单」。
Most of the orders came in the early hours of the morning and in the middle of the night.
据统计，火锅企业陆续提供无接触外卖后，重庆人3天内点了1万单火锅外卖图源中国新闻网根据行业分析师刘越男的预测，在疫情得到控制后，率先实现复苏的行业将是酒店餐饮业，其次是旅游业。
According to statistics, hotpot enterprises successively provide non-contact take-out, Chongqing people in three days ordered 10, 000 single-pot take-out source according to industry analyst Liu Yue-man predicted, after the epidemic is under control, the industry that will take the lead in the recovery will be hotel catering, followed by tourism.
「服务消费已成为刚需，压制后会出现报复性反弹。
"Service consumption has become a demand, repression will have a retaliatory rebound.
餐饮业的消费即时性较强，报复性反弹力度略受限制，但刚需属性下，需求会迅速恢复正常。
Restaurant consumption is timely, retaliatory rebound slightly limited, but just the property of demand, demand will quickly return to normal.
」在餐饮业遭受重创的相关新闻下，通常会有两种声音。
"There are usually two voices in the headlines about the devastation in the restaurant industry.
一种鼓励店家们再坚持一会，另一种则忧心忡忡，「现在蔬果好贵，有的人在隔离期间还不开工资，出现报复性消费，又能持续多久呢？手上的钱都紧得很，我是不敢再大手大脚花钱了。
One encouraged the shopkeepers to hang on a little longer, the other worried, "How long can the fruits and vegetables be so expensive that some people don't get their pay while they're in quarantine, and retaliate? The money is so tight that I can't afford to spend any more.
」口袋收紧的不仅是消费者，林海平也意识在湖北地区之外，他的火锅店必须抓紧进入「增收」环节了。
Not only do consumers tighten their pockets, but Lin Haiping is aware that outside Hubei, his hotpot shop must hurry into the "income" chain.
不得已而为之的外卖业务给他打开了新世界的大门，他决定等堂食复工后，将外送继续下去。
His desperate take-out business opened the door to a new world, and he decided to wait until the canteen returned to work.
他算了一下，哪怕复工后外卖的销售额只有现在的三分之一，也是多出来的一成营收，「从长远角度看，是很乐观的。
He reckons that even a third of take-out sales after returning to work would be an extra 10% of revenue, "optimistic in the long run."
」能看见最好的结果，也得做最坏的打算。
"He who sees the best, must prepare for the worst.
这次疫情中遭受重创的是整个餐饮业。
The entire catering industry has been hard hit by the epidemic.
根据国家统计局公布的数据，去年全国的餐饮总收入中，超过15%的销售额来自春节。
Spring Festival accounted for more than 15 percent of all catering sales nationwide last year, according to figures released by the National Bureau of Statistics.
而今年由于新冠疫情的特殊情况，近八成的餐饮企业收入损失达100%以上。
This year, nearly 80 percent of catering enterprises lost more than 100 percent of their income due to the special circumstances of the new crown epidemic.
即使是头部的餐饮品牌，例如已经上市的海底捞，暂停内地门店营业带来了超过50亿的巨额亏损，外卖续命，只是杯水车薪。
Even headroom brands, such as the already-listed bottom fished, have generated huge losses of more than $5 billion from the suspension of mainland store operations.
李翔能想到的最坏结果是转让店铺。
The worst thing Li Xiang could think of was transferring the store.
2013年，他从父亲手中接过这家已经在重庆南坪营业了十几年的火锅店。
In 2013, he took over from his father the hotpot shop, which had been operating in Nanping, Chongqing, for more than a decade.
此后的7年里，他见到了由于开设分店和大品牌冲击带来的生意下滑，「做餐饮这一行肯定就是由盛到衰，现在慢慢一直在往下滑，这是整体行情。
Over the next seven years, he saw a decline in business as a result of the opening of outlets and the impact of the big brands. "Catering is definitely a boom-and-bust business.
」他并不担心无人接盘的问题，也认可适者生存的残酷规则。
"He was not worried about the lack of access and agreed with the cruel rules of survival of the fittest.
「这个市场就是大鱼吃小鱼，小鱼熬不过就自己倒闭。
"This market is big fish eat small fish, small fish can not survive on their own closure.
市场是竞争性的，现在比的是身板硬，一个行业（倒下的）始终是小厂，大厂不会倒。
The market is competitive, is now more rigid than the body, an industry (down) is always a small factory, big factory will not fall.
」林海平想过，大不了就是一切赔光，重头再来。
Lin Hai-ping thought that the big deal was to lose all his losses and start over again.
哪怕是回到1992年，他还在亲戚家的肉铺里切牛肉的时候。
Even back in 1992, he was slicing beef from a relative's butcher's shop.
那时牛肉卖四块半一斤，牛丸六块一斤。
Beef was then sold for four and a half pounds and beef balls for six pounds a catty.
他先做学徒切牛肉，16年后借钱开牛肉铺，兼有三张桌子卖火锅。
He worked as an apprentice, cut beef, borrowed money 16 years later to open a beef shop, and had three tables selling hot pot.
当时他想，如果每天能卖十斤牛肉丸，再卖十桌火锅，就心满意足了。
He thought that if he could sell ten kilos of beef jerky balls a day and ten hotpots, that would be enough.
不止老板们，馋到不行的食客们同样在回忆着火锅店昔日熙攘的盛景尹夕远 摄（文中李翔、小琳为化名）。
Not only the bosses, but the greedy diners are also looking back at the bustling old scene of the hotpot shop, Yin Xi Yuan (in the text Li Xiang, Xiao Lin as an alias).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
翻滚的火锅市场，遇上疫情寒冰。
Rolling hot pot market, encountered an epidemic of cold ice.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "翻滚的火锅市场，遇上疫情寒冰";。
var msg _ title = & quot; tumbling hot pot market, met with AT & quot; & quot;?
var msg_desc = "大不了就是一切赔光，重头再来。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
