那个被感染的防疫专家出院了，他说：别怕！。
The infected epidemic prevention specialist was discharged from the hospital and said, Don't be afraid.
李桐。
Lee Tung.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
从一开始，余昌平就想过自己可能会被感染。
From the beginning, Yu Changping thought he might be infected.
他是武汉大学人民医院呼吸与危重症医学科的医生，疫情发生后，他成为医院冠状病毒防治专家组的成员。
He is a doctor of respiratory and critical medicine at Wuhan University People's Hospital. After the outbreak, he became a member of the expert group on coronavirus prevention and treatment.
专家组成员被感染？听起来有点严重。
Was the expert group infected? That sounds a bit serious.
余昌平觉得很正常：“接触那么多病人，总是会感染的，因为我冲在最前面，总有一天会倒下”。
Yu Changping felt quite normal: "Contact so many patients, always infected, because I rushed in the front, one day will fall."
病倒了，余昌平也不愿意闲着。
When he fell ill, Yu Changping did not want to be idle.
他注册了个抖音号，身体稍微好点的时候就拍拍视频，让同事帮忙上传。
He signed up for a jitter, and when he was a little better, he took a video and asked his co-workers to upload it.
余昌平用一口需要配字幕的武汉话，分享自己的亲身经历，从感觉到有症状，“一吃东西就打嗝、打屁”，到经历重症期，连续五天没起床，认真地分析自己有多大概率会死，“有30%的可能性”；再到后来，病情逐渐好转，他又继续笑着对网友说：“今天来吹吹牛，我这个性格，不吹牛做什么呢？”在他看来，被感染也是一种经验。
From feeling the symptoms of burping and farting, to going through a severe illness and not getting up for five days in a row, carefully analyzing his probability of dying, "30 percent probability." Then he continued laughing to netizens: "Today blow boasting, my character, don't brag about it?"
作为医生，他想把自己的经历和感受分享给更多人，让大家意识到防护的重要性，但是也不必过分害怕，“用武汉话说，怕个球，恐慌个毛线”。
As a doctor, he wants to share his experiences and feelings with more people and make them aware of the importance of protection, but not too afraid, "in Wuhan dialect, afraid of a ball, panic wool.
抖音上，100多万网友在关心他恢复的进展，看到他拍视频的精神状态越来越好，很多人也受到了鼓励。
More than a million netizens on the quiver were concerned about his progress in the recovery, and many were encouraged to see his video-making spirit improve.
2月24日，两次核酸检测复查结果均为阴性的余昌平准备出院了。
On February 24, Yu Changping, who was negative in both DNA tests, was ready to leave the hospital.
连续吃了五个星期医院盒饭的他，终于“打”赢了自己和新冠肺炎的“拉锯战”。
After a five-week hospital lunch, he finally won the tug-of-war between himself and his new crown pneumonia.
等隔离期结束后，余昌平说自己最想做的事情是吃肉，“红烧肉、五花肉，越肥越好”。
After the quarantine period, Yu Changping said his most wanted to do is to eat meat, "red meat, colorful meat, the fatter the better."
“我被感染了，但是不怕”1月31日，还戴着氧气管的余昌平开始琢磨要做点什么。
"I'm infected, but not afraid," said Yu Changping, still wearing an oxygen tube on January 31, wondering what to do.
这是他住院的第14天，从2月17日检查显示肺部有感染开始，他经历了从疑似、到确诊、迅速发展为重症、再到缓慢恢复为轻症的过程。
This was the fourteenth day of his stay in hospital, and from the beginning of the examination on 17 February, which revealed an infection of the lungs, he went through a process from suspicion to diagnosis, rapid progression to severe and then slow recovery to light illness.
他是武汉大学人民医院最早一批被感染的医务人员之一。
He is one of the earliest infected medical personnel in the People's Hospital of Wuhan University.
在新冠病毒还只是被模糊地称为“新型肺炎”的时候，他每天要接触好几例疑似病例。
While the new strain is only vaguely known as the "new pneumonia," he is exposed to several suspected cases every day.
1月8号，轮到余昌平值班，他会对不同科室转来的发热患者进行会诊，在这天，他遇到了6个有着相似病毒性肺炎症状的病人。
On January 8, when Yu Changping was on duty, he consulted with febrile patients transferred from different departments. On that day, he met six patients with similar symptoms of viral pneumonia.
1月14日，余昌平开始发烧，38.5℃，始终不退烧，但是别的方面都似乎正常，有点奇怪的是一吃东西就打嗝，像肠胃炎吗？不像，不拉肚子；但似乎也不像这几天看到的那种“新型肺炎”，自己就只是发烧。
On January 14, Yu Changping began to have a fever, 38.5 degrees Celsius, but all other aspects seem normal, a little strange to eat hiccups, like gastroenteritis? No, do not have diarrhea, but do not seem to see the "new pneumonia" these days, their fever.
琢磨到17日，快过年了，科室的同事们约好下班后聚餐，余昌平决定还是先去检查一下。
By the 17th, nearly New Year's Day, the colleagues in the section appointment after work dinner, Yu Changping decided to go to check first.
“万一是呢，科室几十个人，影响就很大了”。
"In case it is, the department dozens of people, the impact is very big."
检查结果很快出来，余昌平和另外一个同事同时住进了医院。
The results of the examination came out quickly, and Yu and another colleague were admitted to the hospital at the same time.
在余昌平住院的这14天里，疫情已经迅速从武汉蔓延至全国各地，所通报的确诊病例也从1月17日武汉的45例攀升至全国的9692例。
During the 14 days that Yu Changping was hospitalized, the epidemic quickly spread from Wuhan to all parts of the country, and the number of confirmed cases reported climbed from 45 in Wuhan on January 17 to 9,692 nationwide.
新型冠状病毒所引发的疫情来得凶猛，作为医生，同时也是患者，他有很多想要表达的。
The new coronavirus has caused an epidemic of such ferocity that, as a doctor and as a patient, he has much to say.
对于这个“敌人”，他也困惑过，甚至自己也被感染了，但他相信，到最终，自己还是了解对方的。
He was confused about this "enemy," even infected himself, but he believed that, in the end, he still knew each other.
他想做点事情，虽然平常总会“抱怨”做医生辛苦，“工作压力大、精神压力大”，但当自己病倒的时候，他还是觉得自己应该再做些什么。
He wants to do something, and although he's always complaining about his doctor's hard work, "stressful work and stress," he feels like he should do more when he falls ill.
“想告诉大家，这个病是怎么回事”，余昌平先是尝试了语音分享，发现效果不好；突然想到可以录像，准备了几分钟，就开始对着手机录，因为还有些气喘，他索性把口罩也扯了下去，后来才发现自己当时没洗头也没洗脸。
"I want to tell you how the disease," Yu Changping first tried voice sharing, found the effect is bad; suddenly thought of video, prepared for a few minutes, began to register the phone, because there is some breath, he simply pulled down the mask, only to find that he did not wash his hair and face.
在这个近14分钟的视频里，他回顾了自己过去14天的全过程。
In this nearly 14-minute video, he reviewed his entire 14-day journey.
他爱笑，语气幽默，像每个群体里都会有的热情老大哥，真诚又轻松地告诉网友，他也被感染了，但是，不怕。
He likes to laugh, tone humor, like each group will have the enthusiasm of Big Brother, sincere and easy to tell netizens, he was infected, but not afraid.
“我这么潇洒，这么可爱，死了多可惜啊”但是家人会害怕。
"I am so handsome, so lovely, how sad it is to die" but the family will be afraid.
刚住进医院的前三天，余昌平病情不重，尚未觉得胸闷气短，还能自己走下楼去做CT 复查。
Just three days into the hospital, Yu Changping is not serious illness, not yet feel shortness of breath, but also can go downstairs to do CT review.
他知道这个病的发展过程，双肺病变会一天天地加重，甚至变成重症，会呼吸困难；即使脱离重症，病情也好得慢，乐观的话也需要三四周才能恢复。
He knew how the disease developed, and that the disease could worsen day by day, or even become severe, making it difficult to breathe. Even if the disease was serious, it would take three or four weeks to recover from it, even if it was too slow.
余昌平在心里暗暗希望病情发展能慢一些，这样能给自己和医务人员都留下更多时间和空间。
Yu Changping in the heart secretly hope that the disease can slow down a bit, so that they and the medical staff can leave more time and space.
但现实不像他一样乐观，复查之后的第三天，余昌平病情迅速恶化。
But reality is not as optimistic as he is. On the third day after the review, Yu's condition deteriorated rapidly.
严重的胸闷、呼吸困难，浑身乏力，连续五天，余昌平都不能下床，甚至连坐起来的力气都没有。
Serious chest tightness, breathing difficulties, body fatigue, five days in a row, Yu Changping can not get out of bed, even sitting up the strength.
最重的时候，自己也有点担心。
The heaviest time, oneself also a bit worried.
他觉得自己有30%死掉的可能，最怕的是病情极速恶化、重症的状态又拖得久，很多患者就倒在这一步，“但万一到了那一步，谁也没办法”。
He felt that he had a 30 percent chance of dying. What he feared most was the rapid deterioration of his condition and the long delay in his severe condition.
但转念一想，当下最要紧的事情是活下去。
But on second thought, the most important thing now is to live.
余昌平的信念来自于对自身和病情的了解：自己身体素质较好，能够和病毒“打”下去；虽然病情严重，但是能吃能睡，烧退了就有食欲，呼吸不畅时实在吃不动，就慢慢吃。
Yu Changping's belief comes from his understanding of himself and his illness: he is physically fit and can "fight" with the virus; although serious illness, but can eat and sleep, burn off the appetite, when the breathing really can not eat, eat slowly.
像给别的病人制定治疗方案一样，他给自己定的任务是能尽快地度过危险期，从重症的状态中摆脱出来。
Like making plans for other patients, he set himself the task of getting through the crisis as quickly as possible and getting out of his serious condition.
几近弥留之际，医院又人力紧张，余昌平决定让妻子过来照顾，医院也破例同意了。
Near the deathbed, the hospital is also tight manpower, Yu Changping decided to let his wife to take care of, the hospital agreed to an exception.
他评估过风险，如果自己能撑过危险期，就能活；妻子过来照顾，也有可能会感染，但从病毒的传播规律判断，妻子万一感染，应该会是轻症。
He has assessed the risk of survival if he can survive a critical period, of his wife coming to take care of her and possibly contracting an infection, but judging from the pattern of transmission of the virus, she would have been a mild case of infection.
妻子没想那么多。
My wife didn't think that much.
一天几趟地从家送饭、送水果到医院，让他吃好有力气；给他打气，每次见他都会笑，甚至故意惹他生气，看他有力气发脾气才放心。
He brought food and fruit to the hospital several times a day, to give him strength to eat, to cheer him up, to laugh at him every time he saw him, even to annoy him, and to reassure him that he had the strength to lose his temper.
第五天过去的时候，余昌平再次复查。
At the end of the fifth day, Yu Changping again reviewed.
没有力气下床，就托人找了把轮椅推着，他自己抱着氧气袋，等强撑着精神把CT拍摄的过程完成，他自己心里也有了判断：“最困难的时间，已经过去了”。
Unable to get out of bed, he sent for a wheelchair and, holding the oxygen bag in his arms, he tried to pull the CT out of the way. He thought to himself, "The worst is over."
接下来，是挨过“拉锯战”，慢慢就能好转了。
Then there was the "tug-of-war," which gradually improved.
过后余昌平才知道，病重的那几天，妻子天天给自己姐姐打电话，边打边哭，哭完了再去给他送饭，笑着让他多吃。
After I know, the serious days of illness, his wife called his sister every day, while crying, crying and then to bring him food, smiled let him eat more.
他用妻子给自己打气的方式开玩笑，“她是该哭，我这么潇洒、这么可爱，死了多可惜啊”。
He joked in his wife's way of cheering himself. "She ought to cry. I'm so smart, so cute. What a pity I'm dead."
后来，妻子也被感染了，好在是轻症。
Later, his wife was also infected, but it was a mild illness.
余昌平觉得有点内疚，最严重的时候自己需要妻子的陪伴，但毕竟是将她置于危险之中，“之后不止是夫妻，而是生死之交”。
Yu felt a little guilty. He needed his wife's company at the worst, but he put her in danger. "After all, it's not just the husband and wife, it's a life-or-death relationship."
“笑代表信心，代表力量”余昌平是湖北荆州人，博士毕业后就一直在武汉大学人民医院工作。
"Laughter stands for confidence and strength" Yu Changping is from Jingzhou, Hubei Province. He has been working in the People's Hospital of Wuhan University since graduation.
他觉得自己的性格很适合做医生，开朗、乐观，像他在拍视频时所说的那样，“给点阳光就灿烂”。
He felt that he had the personality to be a doctor, cheerful, optimistic, as he said in the video, "give a bit of sunshine is brilliant."
科室里的同事都爱跟他待一块，出差、旅游，哪里有他，哪里就有欢乐。
Office colleagues love to stay with him, business trips, travel, where there is him, there is joy.
“你看我一直在笑，笑代表信心，代表力量，我希望给你们信心和力量”，通过在抖音拍视频，他把这种乐观也传递给了许多网友。
"You see I have been laughing, smile for confidence, for strength, I hope to give you confidence and strength," he said in a shaking video, which he also passed on to many netizens.
在他看来，对疾病了解得越清晰，心里就越不会恐慌，而积极的心态有助于更好地面对这“欺软怕硬”的病毒。
In his view, the clearer the disease is known, the less likely it is to panic, and a positive mindset helps to better confront the "soft" virus.
不断有受到乐观情绪感染网友在他的分享下留言：“实实在在、通俗易懂”、“不恐慌，不害怕，做好防护”……余昌平总是在笑随着病情的日趋好转，余昌平更新视频的频次也高了起来。
"True, easy to understand," "do not panic, do not fear, do a good job of protection... Yu Changping is always laughing as his condition gets better, Yu Changping's frequency of video updates has also increased.
除了分享自己的恢复进展，他还开始做更多和科普相关的事情：分享自己对疫情发展的看法；建议同行们在进行新冠肺炎的诊断时，将CT 结果作为重要的判断标准；而对于许多人谈之色变的“激素”，他也不断地拍视频向网友解释，合理地使用激素为什么能够有效帮助治疗病毒性肺炎。
In addition to sharing his own progress in recovery, he has begun to do more about science: sharing his views on the progression of the epidemic; advising his peers to use CT findings as an important yardstick in diagnosing new crown pneumonia; and repeatedly video explaining to netizens why proper hormone use can help treat viral pneumonia.
2月4日，余昌平被中央电视台的《焦点访谈》报道。
February 4, Yu Changping was CCTV's "focal point interview" report.
更多人了解到了他通过抖音短视频科普新冠肺炎的事情，第二天一早，他的主治医生查房时都笑着说余昌平“成网红了”。
More people learned about his new crown pneumonia through the jitter video, and the next morning, his attending doctor looked in with a smile and said Yu Changping "became a net red."
被更多人知道的余昌平更忙了。
Yu Changping, known to more people, is busier.
不断有同行和他交流对新冠肺炎的看法，有患者的家属跟他交流恢复情况，也有越来越多的人向他咨询。
His peers continued to talk to him about pneumonia, family members of patients shared their recovery with him, and more and more people sought advice from him.
和新冠肺炎相关的专业问题，余昌平都会坚持自己回复；有了新的心得体会和病例，他也会通过拍视频的方式分享给更多人。
With the professional issues related to the new crown pneumonia, Yu Changping will adhere to their own response; with new insights and cases, he will also be video-sharing to more people.
现在，余昌平和妻子都已经出院。
Mr. Yu and his wife are now out of the hospital.
再经过14天的隔离期，一切顺利的话，他就能在武汉的春天里转转。
After another 14 days of isolation, if all goes well, he will be able to walk around Wuhan in the spring.
之后，等空闲的时候，他还会在抖音上继续科普新冠肺炎，为更多人带去信心。
Then, in his spare time, he would continue to shake out the new crown pneumonia, bringing confidence to more people.
他还考虑以后做些医学相关的科普，让更多人知道医学是什么、医生是什么。
He also plans to do some medically relevant science in the future so that more people know what medicine is and what doctors are.
＊＊＊余昌平为“中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金”受助人。
* * * Mr. Yu is a recipient of the Humanitarian Aid Fund for Chinese Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Workers.
2020年1月25日，今日头条、抖音、西瓜视频母公司字节跳动向中国红十字基金会捐赠2亿元人民币，设立“中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金”，为抗击疫情一线医务工作者提供保障。
On January 25, 2020, the parent company of today's headlines, chatter and watermelon video beater donated Rmb200m to the China Red Cross Foundation, setting up the "Humanitarian Relief Fund for Chinese Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Workers" to protect front-line medical workers against the epidemic.
截至2020年2月26日，全国已经有966名疫情防控一线医务工作者获得该专项基金资助。
As of 26 February 2020, 966 frontline health workers nationwide had received funding from the Fund.
其中，951名因抗击疫情而不幸感染的一线医务工作者，每人获得10万元资助；15名因抗击疫情而不幸殉职的一线医务工作者，每个家庭获得100万元资助。
Of these, 951 frontline health workers who were unfortunately infected by the outbreak received $100,000 each, and 15 frontline health workers who lost their lives in the fight against the epidemic received $1 million per family.
疫情防控一线医务人员保障基金申请请戳。
Epidemic prevention and control first-line medical insurance fund application stamp.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那个被感染的防疫专家出院了，他说：别怕！。
The infected epidemic prevention specialist was discharged from the hospital and said, Don't be afraid.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那个被感染的防疫专家出院了，他说：别怕！";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "“我这么潇洒，这么可爱，死了多可惜啊”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I was so handsome, so lovely, and how sad to have died" & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
