华生：SARS过后不到十七年，我们就两次掉进了同一条河流。
PHIL WATSON: Less than seventeen years after SARS, we fell into the same river twice.
李明子。
Aiko Lee.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
真实的信息为什么没有及时地上传下达？华生图片来源：东南大学人文学院官网“实际上高福这个人，原本并不在我们的研究视野之内。
www.51education.net) www.51education.net www.51education.net www.51education.net) www.51education.net www.51education.net www.51education.net) www.51education.net www.51education.net) www.51education.net
”中国经济体制改革研究会副会长、东南大学资深教授、经济管理学院名誉院长华生对《中国新闻周刊》说。
Hua Sheng, vice-president of the China Economic Reform Research Council and a senior professor at Southeast University and honorary dean of the School of Economic Management, told China News Weekly.
他早在1986年就被评为首批“国家级有突出贡献的专家”，并于2015年被聘为国务院深化医药卫生体制改革领导小组专家咨询委员会的38名委员之一。
He was named the first "country-level experts with outstanding contributions" as early as 1986, and was appointed as one of the 38 members of the Expert Advisory Committee of the Leading Group on Deepening Medical and Health System Reform under the State Council in 2015.
近日，华生在社交媒体上发表文章，澄清中国疾控中心主任高福在此次新冠疫情中的责任问题，引起强烈关注。
Recently, Watson published an article on social media clarifying the responsibility of Gao Fu, director of China's CDC, in the new crown.
实际上，疫情发生后，华生团队全面追踪，从经济学和管理学角度做相关研究，来总结这次疫情发展与防治工作的得失与经验教训。
In fact, after the outbreak, Watson's team thoroughly tracked, from the perspective of economics and management to do relevant research to summarize the development of the epidemic and the lessons learned.
“这次疫情的发生发展说明，SARS之后国家斥巨资建立的传染病网络直报系统没有起到预警作用。
"The outbreak suggests that the post-SARS national direct reporting system for infectious disease networks did not provide early warning," he said.
同时和SARS一样，在疫情发生以后相当一段时间，实际情况仍然没有得到真实的汇报和披露。
At the same time, like SARS, the actual situation has not been truly reported and disclosed for some time after the outbreak.
”华生说，“我们要总结的问题和教训是，真实的信息为什么没有及时上传下达？”《中国新闻周刊》：新冠病毒疫情的前中期防治为什么会出现那么多的迟缓、失误和问题，真实信息的传递和反馈为什么在相当一段时间远远滞后于病毒的传播和扩散，问题出在哪里？华生：SARS过后不到十七年，我们就两次掉进了同一条河流，一个本来有可能在早期防控的病毒感染，演变为一场影响全国的大疫情，我们需要寻找真正的原因和漏洞。
China News Weekly: Why are there so many delays, errors and problems in the mid- to long-term prevention and treatment of the New Crown Virus epidemic? Watson: Less than 17 years after SARS, we fell into the same river twice, a potential infection in early prevention and control, into a pandemic affecting the whole country.
高福因偶然因素成为舆论焦点，但他的问题不是疫情之后最应该研究的真问题，因此需要说清楚“他为什么不是焦点”，这是我写文章的直接原因。
Ghosfeld became the focus of public opinion by accident, but his question was not the real one to be studied after the outbreak, so I need to make it clear why he is not the center of attention.
这个问题说过了，以后我就不会再关心、涉及了。
This question said, in the future I will no longer care about, involved.
目前看到的对新冠病毒疫情的总结，包括重视度不够、人力物力财力不足、公卫系统不完善、制度法规缺少等等，都是对的，但我觉得，研究问题不能回避要害，这次疫情带来的损失太大了，我们国家、人民都经不起折腾了。
So far we have seen a summary of the new crown virus epidemic, including insufficient attention, insufficient human, material and financial resources, inadequate public health systems, lack of institutional regulations, etc., are correct, but I feel that the research issue cannot be avoided. The losses from this epidemic are too great for our country and people to bear.
与17年前的SARS相比，中国现在的国家实力、科技水平都有所发展，但这次疫情比当年SARS波及的范围更广，死亡人数和医护人员感染的更是多得多，而且造成全国停摆。
Compared to SARS 17 years ago, China's national strength, technology and level of development, but the epidemic than that year's SARS epidemic more widespread, the death toll and health-care workers infected much more, and caused a national pause.
我们总结经验教训当然就要更深刻得多。
Our lessons will certainly be much deeper.
一个最大的问题就是：真实的信息为什么没有及时地上传下达？病毒像敌人一样已经摸到岗哨、侵占我们的阵地了，我们却没有预警，这是怎么回事？中国疾控系统在SARS之后就建立了直报系统对传染病进行监测，但问题是，内部为什么失灵了？在内部直报体系之外，是否需要监测环节？这都是要总结、研究的真问题。
One of the biggest problems is: Why hasn't the real information reached us in time? Viruses have reached sentry posts and invaded our positions like the enemy, but we haven't been forewarned.
严格地说，直报系统失灵不是在某一个时间段的某一个环节。
Strictly speaking, the failure of the direct reporting system is not in a certain period of time.
按照国家卫健委的通报，12月上旬已经有患者到医院机就诊，12月中旬，多家医院陆续收到病例，如果预警机制在SARS之后建立得能够解决问题，那么在12月中旬就已经解决问题了，预防越早，代价越小。
According to the National Board of Health, patients arrived at the hospital in the first half of December and a number of hospitals received cases in mid-December. If the early warning mechanism is established after SARS, the problem will be solved by mid-December. The earlier the prevention, the less costly.
但这个精心打造的系统，在这个防疫战争中成了二战中的马奇诺防线——战争还没拉开序幕，防线就失守了。
But this carefully crafted system became the Maginot Line of Defense during World War II in this war of epidemic prevention - the defense was lost before the war began.
我下一篇文章的主题就是：怎么保证真实信息上传下达。
The theme of my next article is: How to make sure that real information gets out.
这篇文章会发表在我个人社交媒体平台上，相关学术论文的研究周期比较长，最快也得几个月，届时会发表在相关学术期刊上。
This article will be published on my personal social media platform, and the research cycle of related academic papers will be long and several months, when it will be published in relevant academic journals.
《中国新闻周刊》：目前中国经济发展增速下降，第三产业占比与2003年SARS时相比更高，疫情带来的经济损失恢复期会比SARS之后更长吗？华生：我认为，现在首先要解决的问题，还是寻求疫情前期、中期防控不力的真正的原因与短板漏洞，从根本上反思、解决这个问题，避免以后重复出现。
At present, the growth rate of China's economy is declining, the tertiary industry is higher than it was in 2003, and the recovery period of economic losses from the epidemic will be longer than after SARS? Watson: In my opinion, the first problem to be solved now is to find the real causes and shortcomings of the weak prevention and control in the early and medium term.
这次疫情暴露的问题是全方位的，从治理体系，到政治、经济、社会道德伦理等等，都提出了一些列问题和挑战。
The epidemic has exposed a wide range of problems, ranging from governance systems to politics, economics, social ethics and so forth, which have raised a number of issues and challenges.
疫情对经济的影响是短期、还是中长期，目前下结论都还太早，但有一点可以肯定的是，这次疫情后克服恢复经济的困难比SARS之后要大，2003年SARS爆发前后，中国正处于经济高速增长期，有困难也容易克服。
It is too early to say whether the epidemic will affect the economy in the short, medium or long term, but it is certain that the post-epidemic recovery will be more difficult to overcome than after SARS. China is going through a period of rapid economic growth around the outbreak of SARS in 2003.
现在，经济下行压力大，中央经济工作会议也提到，在国内外都面临着诸多风险和挑战，疫情爆发是忙中添乱，但究竟对经济发展影响有多大，还要继续评估。
Now, under severe economic pressure, the Central Economic Work Conference also mentioned that there are many risks and challenges at home and abroad. The outbreak of the epidemic is adding to the chaos, but its impact on economic development needs to be further assessed.
这首先取决于接下来疫情与病毒本身的发展变化，其次，取决于防疫战进展的情况。
This depends first and foremost on the evolution of the epidemic and the virus itself and, secondly, on the progress of the epidemic.
当年SARS在广东出现后又在北京的爆发的情况肯定要尽一切可能的努力去避免。
The SARS outbreak in Guangdong and then in Beijing must be avoided by all possible means.
有关促进经济恢复、保证民生的措施，经济学家和研究学者们也在探讨，需要根据事情发展变化，有针对性地采取措施。
Economists and researchers have also been discussing measures to promote economic recovery and ensure people's livelihood, and need to take targeted measures in light of developments.
近期中央也采取了相关措施，应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组会议审议了企事业单位复工复产疫情防控措施指南，各地有序复工、复产。
Recently, the Central Government also adopted relevant measures, and the meeting of the Leading Group on Addressing the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic was held to review the guidelines on measures to prevent and control the resumption of work in enterprises and institutions.
现在市场总体比较稳定，证券市场、人民币币值也比较稳定，说明目前采取有针对性的措施是正确的、有成效的。
At present, the market is relatively stable, and the value of the securities market and RMB is relatively stable, which shows that it is correct and effective to take targeted measures.
值班编辑：冯超封面报道之四《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Feng Chao cover coverage of "Defense of Prevention and Control - How we deal with it scientifically" (consisting of 6 stories) click the following figure and press one button to place an order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
华生：SARS过后不到十七年，我们就两次掉进了同一条河流。
PHIL WATSON: Less than seventeen years after SARS, we fell into the same river twice.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "华生：SARS过后不到十七年，我们就两次掉进了同一条河流";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Watson: Less than 17 years after SARS, we fell twice into the same river and quot;;
var msg_desc = "​真实的信息为什么没有及时地上传下达？​";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Why didn't real-life information reach us in time?
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
