专访美国公共卫生专家：要把疾控系统变成一个独立的系统。
Interview with US Public Health Experts: Transform the Disease Control System into a standalone system.
李想俣。
Minamata Lee.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
疫情从发生到现在，公共卫生专家、流行病学家在话语权上还比较弱2月22日至23日，中国-世界卫生组织新冠肺炎联合专家考察组在湖北省开展现场调研。
From the outbreak to the present, public health experts, epidemiologists in the voice of the weak February 22-23, the World Health Organization new crown pneumonia joint expert mission team in Hubei Province to conduct on-the-spot investigations.
考察组访问了同济医院（光谷院区）、武汉体育中心方舱医院，赴省疾控中心调研湖北省和武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控、医疗救治等情况，并与省联防联控机制成员单位负责同志和专家进行交流。
The team visited Tongji Hospital (Guanggu courtyard district), Wuhan Sports Center Fang Mo Hospital, went to the provincial CDC to investigate the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia epidemic in Hubei and Wuhan, and had exchanges with leading comrades and experts of the member units of the JCCM.
图/中新“上医治未病，这就是预防医学的观念”专访美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长张作风本刊记者/李想俣发于2020.3.2总第937期《中国新闻周刊》近一个多月来，美国加州大学洛杉矶分校（UCLA）公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风不仅一直关注着国内新冠疫情防控的局势，而且频频就相关问题接受媒体采访，提供自己的观察和专业意见。
Zhang style, vice-dean of UCLA School of Public Health and professor of epidemiology for more than a month, Zhang style, vice-dean of UCLA School of Public Health and senior professor of epidemiology, has been paying close attention to the situation of new crown disease prevention and control in China.
这位早年在国内曾做过赤脚医生，后来在国际公共卫生领域长期耕耘，并在世卫组织工作过的知名学者，以他对中国国情的深入理解，和对公共卫生问题的国际眼光，在新冠疫情防控和公共卫生事业发展等方面提出了坦率而独特见解。
As a barefoot doctor in China in his early years, he worked in the field of international public health for a long time and worked in WHO. With his in-depth understanding of China's national conditions and international perspective on public health issues, he has put forward frank and unique views on the prevention and control of the new crown epidemic and the development of public health.
日前，张作风接受了《中国新闻周刊》的专访。
Recently, Zhang style was interviewed by China News Weekly.
“疫情数据的透明将起到稳定民心的作用”中国新闻周刊：在新发传染病疫情的决策中，流行病学家、临床医生、病原学家、行政官员等角色，应该各自承担怎样的职责？张作风：以美国为例，临床医生和临床实验室人员根据法律要求，将新发疾病识别出来并负责报告给地方政府部门或美国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）。
"Transparency of epidemic data will help stabilize the hearts and minds of the people," China Newsweek: What are the roles of epidemiologists, clinicians, etiologists, and administrators in making decisions about new infectious disease outbreaks? Zhang style: In the United States, for example, clinicians and clinical laboratory personnel identify emerging diseases and report them to local government departments or the United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC).
在出现疫情暴发的情况下，当地公共卫生部门的现场流行病学家将进行调查，并采取措施控制疾病传播。
In the event of an outbreak, local public health field epidemiologists will investigate and take measures to control the spread of the disease.
如果暴发严重，美国CDC将设立一个由流行病学家、临床医生组成的应急小组，进行调查并控制暴发。
In the event of a serious outbreak, the U.S. CDC will establish an emergency response team of epidemiologists and clinicians to investigate and contain the outbreak.
同时会通知居民，并采取预防措施。
Residents are also notified and preventive measures are taken.
在流行病暴发的决策过程中，美国总统可以宣布大流行紧急状态，美国CDC和联邦紧急管理机构有标准的详细要求和程序来遵循。
The US President can declare a state of emergency in the course of a pandemic decision-making process, and the US CDC and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have standard detailed requirements and procedures to follow.
新发传染病疫情的决策中, 主要的决定是由美国卫生与公共服务部（HHS）和美国疾病预防控制中心做出的。
The major decisions on emerging infectious disease outbreaks are made by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
通常联邦紧急管理机构（FEMA）会在美国10个大区储存足够紧急物资。
Usually the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) stores sufficient emergency supplies in 10 regions of the United States.
在调查和控制新的传染病暴发中，暴发通常被划分为6个时期: 调查期、识别期、启动期、加速期、减速期，以及下一个大流行的准备期。
In the investigation and control of new outbreaks of infectious diseases, outbreaks are usually divided into six periods: investigation period, identification period, start-up period, acceleration period, deceleration period and preparation period for the next pandemic.
美国CDC在每个时期采取以下行动，包括：传染性病例管理控制、隔离措施、监测和流行病学、实验室诊断方法和标准、减轻社区影响、医疗护理和对策（培训并保护医疗人员和护士，避免医院内部传播）、疫苗研发、与居民的风险沟通，以及与州或地方公共卫生部门的协调。
The United States CDC undertakes the following actions at each stage, including: infectious case management control, isolation measures, surveillance and epidemiology, laboratory diagnostic methods and standards, community impact mitigation, medical care and response (training and protection of medical personnel and nurses against intra-hospital transmission), vaccine development, risk communication with residents, and coordination with state or local public health departments.
中国新闻周刊：有人担心，疫情信息的公开会引起社会恐慌，为何会有这样的考虑？在信息社会，一些个人对相关信息进行传播，是否会影响社会稳定？张作风：在新发传染病开始的时候，我们一方面要上报有关部门，另一方面要对医生和公众进行预警，公众就会知道怎么来保护自己。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Some people worry that the disclosure of information about the epidemic will cause social panic, why should it be so? In the information society, will the dissemination of relevant information by individuals affect the social stability? Zhang style: When a new infectious disease starts, we have to inform the relevant authorities and the public about how to protect themselves.
尤其是医生会接触很多病人，所以更要进行相应的防护，包括戴口罩、护目镜，穿防护衣等，这是非常重要的。
In particular, doctors are exposed to many patients, so it is important to take appropriate precautions, including wearing masks, goggles, protective clothing, etc.
如果信息只能从官方渠道发布，缺乏公众和媒体的监督，那么就可能存在疫情隐瞒、数据伪造，就会给疫情的客观判断带来负面影响。
If information is released only from official sources and without public and media scrutiny, there is a risk of epidemic concealment, falsification of data and negative impact on objective judgement of the epidemic.
疫情数据的透明将起到稳定民心的作用。
Transparent data on the epidemic will serve to stabilize the population.
此外，疫情信息的公开，在了解新发传染病的病因学、传播途径、传播方式、是否存在中间宿主、流行趋势以及控制效果的评价等方面，都起到相当重要的作用。
In addition, the disclosure of epidemic information plays an important role in understanding the etiology of emerging infectious diseases, their modes of transmission, the presence of intermediate hosts, epidemiological trends and the evaluation of control effects.
相反，如果知情不报、刻意隐瞒疫情，就是有关部门的渎职行为，也侵犯了公众的知情权。
On the contrary, failure to report and deliberately conceal the epidemic constitutes misconduct on the part of the authorities and an infringement of the public's right to know.
信息不公开，疫情不清楚，带着瘟疫会自生自灭的幻想，不但伤害了公众的健康，也会造成全国和世界范围的流行。
The secrecy of the information, the lack of clarity of the epidemic and the delusion that the plague would be self-defeating not only harm public health but also cause a national and worldwide epidemic.
我们在SARS时期应该已经学到了这样的教训。
We should have learned this lesson in the SARS era.
中国新闻周刊：在疫情初期病原尚不清楚的情况下，是不是可以提前启动预防措施？流行病学家能够在何时、以何种方式介入？张作风：流行病学家在疫情发生的早期就应该发挥很大的作用。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Is it possible to initiate prophylaxis in the early stages of an epidemic when and how epidemiologists can intervene? Zhang style: Epidemiologists should play a big role in the early stages of an outbreak.
以此次武汉的新冠肺炎疫情为例，在早期建立假设时，医学专家说“没有证据证明人传人”，但如果换个方向思考，我们是否也可以说当时“没有证据证明不发生人传人”？一开始就要假设是有可能“人传人”的，这样考虑问题，防控措施就会更加严格，就可能在疫情发生的早期控制住它。
In the early days of the Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, for example, medical experts said that there was "no evidence of human-to-human transmission," but if we thought differently, we could say that there was "no evidence of human-to-human transmission."
上医治未病，这就是预防医学的观念。
It is the idea of preventive medicine to go to medical treatment.
1月30日，中国工程院院士钟南山与利普金在机场交谈。
On January 30, Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, talked with Lipkin at the airport.
当日上午，来华帮助抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的美国传染病学家维尔特·伊恩·利普金教授抵达广州白云机场。
That morning Professor Wilt Ian Lipkin, an American infectious disease scientist who came to China to help fight the new coronavirus infection, arrived at Baiyun Airport in Guangzhou.
利普金在协助世界卫生组织和多个国家处理纽约西尼罗病毒、SARS、MERS等众多传染病上有丰富经验，被誉为“世界最知名病毒猎手”。
Lipkin is known as the world's best-known virus hunter for his extensive experience in helping the World Health Organization and many other countries deal with the West Nile virus, SARS and MERS in New York.
图/新华“要把疾控系统变成一个独立的系统”中国新闻周刊：在疫病防控领域，是不是应该让公共卫生界拥有更强的话语权？张作风：中国的疾病预防控制系统自SARS以来，在国际、国内的新发传染病防控中，发挥了很重要的作用。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: Should the public health community be given a stronger voice in disease prevention and control? Zhang style: Since SARS, China's disease prevention and control system has played an important role in the prevention and control of new infectious diseases at home and abroad.
SARS最终的成功防治，得益于当时有很多流行病学专家和疾控专家献计献策。
The ultimate success of SARS prevention and treatment, thanks to the contributions of many epidemiologists and disease control experts at the time.
中国的公共卫生专家和专业队伍基础扎实，经验丰富，同时中国的公共卫生学院已经培养出很多优秀人才。
China's public health experts and professionals are well-established and experienced, while China's public health colleges have trained many talented people.
但这次疫情从发生到现在，公共卫生专家、流行病学家在话语权上还比较弱。
But from the outbreak until now, public health experts, epidemiologists in the voice of the relatively weak.
流行病学是研究宿主和传染源之间复杂关系的。
Epidemiology studies the complex relationship between the host and the source of infection.
寻找病因，找到传染源、传播途径，发现疑似病人，保护健康人群，这些都是流行病学家的任务。
It is the task of epidemiologists to find the cause of infection, find the source of infection, spread the disease, discover suspected patients and protect healthy people.
由此可见，流行病学的工作内容与新冠病毒感染这类的传染病疫情密切相关。
Therefore, the epidemiological work is closely related to the new crown virus infection such as infectious diseases.
中国新闻周刊：现在有一种普遍的探讨，把中国疾控中心和美国CDC进行比较。
CHINA NEWSWEEK: There is now a widespread discussion to compare CDC in China with CDC in the United States.
能否介绍一下美国疾控系统业务开展、人才培养的模式，其中哪些值得中国借鉴？张作风：由于中国疾控中心没有决策权和批准程序，因而会造成控制传染病暴发的整个决策过程的延迟。
Could you tell me something about the development of disease control system in the United States and the training mode of personnel training, which is worth learning from China? Zhang style: Since China CDC has no decision-making power and approval procedures, it will cause delays in the entire decision-making process to control outbreaks of infectious diseases.
虽然美国人口是中国的五分之一，但美国疾控中心的工作人员数量是中国疾控中心的7倍。
Although the U.S. has one-fifth the population of China, the CDC has seven times as many staff as China's CDC.
美国CDC每年疾控经费是120亿美元，约合840亿人民币。
The CDC spends $12 billion a year on disease control, about 84 billion yuan.
这些年来，中国疾控系统的经费是不断下降的，同时，比较出色的年轻人才也出现了外流现象。
Over the years, funding for China's disease-control system has been declining, while the exodus of better young people has occurred.
中国要拥有一个强大的疾控系统，就要给予决策权，增加经费，培养好新一代的疾控人员。
For China to have a strong disease control system, it needs to give decision-making power, increase funds and train a new generation of disease controllers.
要把疾控变成一个独立的系统，和美国疾控中心一样，可以向外发布数据、有权宣布紧急状态，来启动疾病防控措施。
To turn disease control into a stand-alone system, like the CDC, it could release data and declare a state of emergency to initiate disease control measures.
由疾控中心来负责急性传染病和慢性病的防控，这样可以抓住时机，把疾病消灭在萌芽状态。
The CDC is responsible for the prevention and control of acute and chronic diseases, so that the opportunity can be seized to nip the disease in the bud.
中国现有80多个公共卫生学院，很多公卫学院都很重视慢性病，但我们不能忘记新发传染病，包括一些老的传染病，比如血吸虫病，可能也会有死灰复燃的迹象。
There are more than 80 public health schools in China, and many public health colleges attach great importance to chronic diseases, but we must not forget that new infectious diseases, including old ones such as schistosomiasis, may also be showing signs of resurgence.
所以，传染病防治应该重新加强，尤其要加强对新发传染病的研究，培养流行病学的领军人物。
Therefore, the prevention and control of infectious diseases should be strengthened, especially the research on new infectious diseases and the training of leading epidemiologists.
“封城充满了挑战”中国新闻周刊：如何评价武汉乃至于湖北各地的封城措施？除此之外，还有没有更好的办法来切断传染源和传播途径？张作风：由于大暴发且患者发病率很高，因此封城是采取的最极端措施，是没有其他方法的措施，它使得人传人的概率降低，减慢了传播到其他省份的速度。
Is there a better way to cut off the source of infection and transmission? Zhang style: Because of the outbreak and high incidence of patients, cityclosure is the most extreme measure taken and there is no other way to reduce the probability of human-to-human transmission, slowing the spread to other provinces.
封城对减少发病率有影响，所以下降的幅度是比较明显的。
The closure had an impact on the reduction of morbidity, so the magnitude of the decline was more pronounced.
对于一个拥有1100万人口的大城市而言，封城充满了挑战。
For a big city with a population of 11 million, the closure is fraught with challenges.
而单纯封城是远远不够的，应该在封城前要做好充分的准备，封城后跟进相应的预防措施。
And the simple closure of the city is not enough, should be done before the closure of the city to make adequate preparations, after the closure of the corresponding preventive measures.
例如，要安排大量的卫生防疫专业人员在社区逐户排查，把人群分为正常、疑似或者病人，然后治疗病人，隔离观察疑似，以及有效保护健康人。
For example, a large number of health and epidemic prevention professionals will be deployed to conduct house-to-house searches in the community, categorizing the population into normal, suspected or sick persons, then treating patients, observing suspected cases in isolation and effectively protecting healthy people.
只有这样，才能有效控制社区感染和传播。
Only in this way can community infection and transmission be effectively controlled.
在封城期间，有必要有限地开通运输工具，保证医疗用品、隔离防护材料以及市民生活必需品的运输。
During the siege, it was necessary to open limited means of transport to ensure the transport of medical supplies, protective materials and the necessities of life of the citizens.
其次，封城造成的长期与外界隔绝，有可能会使得市民出现一些心理问题，要让心理学专业人员做好心理疏导工作。
Second, the closure of the long-term isolation from the outside world, may cause some psychological problems, psychological professionals to do a good job.
第三，实施封城后，还要适当改善城市的一些基本功能，保证老人、孕妇、儿童等群体的常见病就医。
Third, the implementation of the blockade, but also appropriate improvement of some basic urban functions, to ensure that the elderly, pregnant women, children and other groups of common diseases.
我们看到，武汉在突然决定封城之前，似乎还没有做好整个城市被隔离的准备，从而导致医疗用品和医务人员防护用品的短缺。
We see that Wuhan, before suddenly deciding to close the city, did not seem ready to isolate the whole city, leading to a shortage of medical supplies and medical supplies.
与之相对应的是，美国目前仅有35例冠状病毒感染病例，而美国疾控中心已经开始为可能的社区暴发做好准备，并存储医疗设施和防护用品。
By contrast, the United States currently has only 35 cases of coronavirus infection, and the CDC has begun to prepare for a possible community outbreak and store medical facilities and protective equipment.
中国新闻周刊：全国数万名医务人员支援武汉和湖北，这种大规模的医务人员的调动，其效果如何？除此之外是否还有其他可能的方案？张作风：在新冠防疫进入全面攻坚阶段之后，29省（市、区）一起对疫区进行包干支持，对武汉市乃至湖北省的疫情都是一次重拳出击。
Zhang style: After the new crown epidemic entered the stage of full-scale attack, 29 provinces (cities and districts) jointly supported the epidemic area, and the outbreak in Wuhan and Hubei provinces was a major blow.
但我们也看到，大量医疗队进入武汉和湖北后，尽管他们正在帮助和取代当地的医疗专业人员，但患者的病死率并没有明显改变，始终维持在3％～4％之间。
But we also see that after the arrival of large numbers of medical teams in Wuhan and Hubei, although they are helping and replacing local medical professionals, the fatality rate of the patients has not changed significantly and has remained between 3 and 4 percent.
实际上，对待疫情的防控，还可以有不同的战术，例如，除了外援医疗队进入疫区作战，是否可以将被救援市的病人运出，到有条件的包干省市专设的定点医院接受救治？我觉得后者也是应该被重视的。
In fact, the prevention and control of the epidemic can have different tactics, such as, in addition to foreign aid medical teams fighting in epidemic areas, whether patients can be transported out of the rescued city and treated at designated hospitals in the conditional cities of Baogan? I think the latter should also be taken seriously.
无论从医务人员的人力、各方面后勤保障、人的心理定势等方面，后者都有其优势。
The latter has its advantages in terms of medical personnel, logistics and psychological situation.
很多大城市的定点传染病医院处于边缘地带，易隔断，交通方便，医务人员配备齐全，设备也先进。
Hospitals for targeted infectious diseases in many large cities are located on the periphery and are easily accessible, staffed and equipped with advanced equipment.
尤其在目前很多省市新增病人已经消零的情况下，其传染病医院设备良好，可能有很多空床可供接待来自疫区的患者，这也是一个有利条件。
Particularly now that new patients in many provinces and municipalities have been eliminated, the infectious hospitals are well equipped and there may be many vacant beds for patients from affected areas, which is also an advantage.
值班编辑：冯超封面报道之四《防控之辨——我们怎样科学应对》（由6篇报道组成）点击下图，一键下单。
On-duty editor: Feng Chao cover coverage of "Defense of Prevention and Control - How we deal with it scientifically" (consisting of 6 stories) click the following figure and press one button to place an order.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访美国公共卫生专家：要把疾控系统变成一个独立的系统。
Interview with US Public Health Experts: Transform the Disease Control System into a standalone system.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专访美国公共卫生专家：要把疾控系统变成一个独立的系统";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Interview with American public health experts: & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "​疫情从发生到现在，公共卫生专家、流行病学家在话语权上还比较弱";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; public health experts and epidemiologists from the start to the present.
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
