8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工。
Eight executives and more than 20 employees were stranded in Hubei, a factory in Wenzhou, before returning to work.
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）机器再度轰鸣距离温州南站五六公里的瓯海区富泉路上，遍布着各式鞋厂、超市和快餐店。
Ouquan Road, 56 kilometers from Wenzhou South Station, is once again filled with shoe factories, supermarkets and fast-food restaurants.
原本熙熙攘攘的街道，如今在疫情的阴影下显得有点冷清。
Originally bustling streets, now in the shadow of the epidemic appears a bit desolate.
临近饭点，马路南端一家电子厂的员工走进附近一家快餐店——这个快餐店的老板是湖北人，由于无法返回温州，电子厂便暂时租下店铺当作了员工食堂。
Toward dinner time, employees of an electronics factory at the southern end of the road walked into a nearby fast food restaurant owned by a Hubei resident who temporarily rented a store as a staff cafeteria because he could not return to Wenzhou.
“都是被逼的，只能想出这个办法。
"They're all forced, and that's the only way to do it.
”厂里一位王姓经理在电话里说道。
"said a manager surnamed Wang on the phone.
王经理最近非常忙碌，每天他都在就复工事宜和当地政府做各种对接，包括汇报情况、协商包车赴外省市接员工返厂，以及急招新人等。
Mr. Wang is very busy these days. Every day he makes connections with the local government about resuming work, including debriefing, negotiating with charters to pick up employees back from overseas and recruiting new people.
随着110多名员工陆续从全国各地返回，在当地一片沉寂的工业园中，他所在厂子的机器终于再度轰隆起来。
With more than 110 employees returning from all over the country, the factory's machinery is finally roaring up again in the quiet industrial park.
武汉九百公里外的温州，一度是新冠肺炎疫情十分严重的城市。
Wuhan, 900 kilometers away from Wenzhou, is once the new crown pneumonia epidemic is very serious city.
截至目前，其累计确诊病例超过500例，是整个浙江省感染最多的地级市。
So far, its cumulative confirmed cases of more than 500 cases, Zhejiang Province is the most infected city.
昔日工厂林立，民营经济发达的滨海之城，正在经受着疫情之余亟需复工的沉重压力。
The former factory bristles, the private economy developed coastal city, is experiencing the epidemic outside the urgent need to return to work heavy pressure.
王经理的电子厂主要生产线路板，这种产品被广泛应用在各类电器上。
Manager Wang's electronics factory mainly produces circuit boards, which are widely used in a variety of electrical appliances.
他说，去年他们厂的产值过亿，在镇上同类企业中，能排在很靠前的位置。
Last year, he says, their factory was worth hundreds of millions of dollars, and it had a very high ranking among its peers in the town.
这家电子厂共有200多名员工，除了34名行政管理人员外，其余都是一线操作员。
The electronics factory employs more than 200 people, all but 34 of whom are front-line operators.
“往年这个时候，工人们早都回来上班了，但今年差距挺大的。
"Normally at this time of the year the workers would be back at work, but this year the gap is pretty wide.
”他无奈地感慨。
"he asked.
线路板行业是严格的订单型经营模式，由客户下单后工厂负责生产，“不像服装那样可以多做，多生产的线路板一分钱不值，就是一堆垃圾。
The circuit board industry is a strict order-based business model, with customers ordering factory production, "unlike clothing can do more, the production of more circuit boards worthless, a pile of garbage.
”令王经理十分忧虑的是，温州最近才陆续复工，而其他省份同行业有更早复工的，如果他们厂迟迟不能满足订单，那客户瞬间就没有了。
"To Wang's great concern, Wenzhou has only recently resumed work, while similar industries in other provinces have resumed work earlier, and customers will be cut short if their factories delay meeting orders.
2月22日，江西赣州宁都县。
22 February, Ningdu County, Ganzhou, Jiangxi Province.
由温州市瓯海区政府派来的两辆包车，将电子厂的36名员工接回了温州。
Two charter cars from the Ouhai government in Wenzhou took 36 employees back to Wenzhou.
这让王经理终于松了一口气。
This finally gave Wang a sigh of relief.
这是瓯海区组织的第一批外接员工包车，在拿到企业递交的员工名单之后，车辆在前一天晚上便赶赴赣州，等待着迎接这批员工返浙。
It was the first charter hire from the Ou Marine Group, and the car rushed to Ganzhou the night before to greet the employees after getting a list of employees.
“我一直和区政府的工作人员保持沟通，所以我们厂了解的信息比较多，动作比较快。
"I have always been in communication with the staff of the regional government, so we plant more information, faster action.
”他庆幸地说。
'he said.
而与此同时，整个工业园中顺利复工的企业寥寥无几。
At the same time, very few enterprises have successfully returned to work throughout the park.
虽然不少企业喊出复工口号，但实际上面临的困难仍然重重。
Although many enterprises shouted slogans to return to work, but the difficulties faced in practice are still numerous.
在这条各类企业、工厂扎堆的马路上，更多的仍然是萧条。
On this road, piled up by businesses and factories of all kinds, there is still more depression.
包车救急温州是浙江的人口流动大市，外来务工人员约有200多万。
Wenzhou is the major city of population flow in Zhejiang Province, with about two million migrant workers.
去年，全市制造业外地用工人员仅来自湖北的就有33万人。
Last year, there were 330,000 manufacturing workers from Hubei alone.
当前疫情防控的严峻形势，无疑阻断了湖北员工们的返岗之路。
The current severe situation of epidemic prevention and control no doubt blocked the return of the staff of Hubei.
据王经理统计，他们厂滞留在湖北省的员工有31人，其中有8名高管。
According to Wang's statistics, there are 31 employees in his factory in Hubei province, including eight senior executives.
他透露称，瓯海区政府此前的态度是，对重点疫区的管理人员可以先行报备，由政府来想办法尝试解决。
He said the Ouhai Ouhai government had previously taken the position that managers of key affected areas could be reported first and the government would try to find a solution.
但在他上报了8名湖北籍高管的信息之后，至今都没有动静。
But nothing has happened since he reported information about eight Hubei executives.
“可能是政府层面协商不了。
"Probably not at the government level.
现在温州不允许湖北员工复工，湖北也不允许当地人出来，双方管控都很严格。
Hubei employees are not allowed to return to work, Hubei is not allowed out of the local people, both sides are very strict control.
”虽然对此表示理解，但“这几位高管都很着急，每个人都待怕了，想早点出来上班。
"While understanding this," the executives were worried, and everyone was afraid to come out to work earlier.
厂里很多事情并不是靠电脑就能搞定，还是需要到现场解决。
Many things in the factory can not be done by computer, or need to be solved on the spot.
”按照目前瓯海区政府的规定，在向外省市派出包车之前，先由各企业上报接人需求，标明其所在省、市、县，然后经瓯海区派驻当地的工作人员统一调配，满20名员工后再接回温州。
According to current government regulations, before sending charter cars to foreign provinces and cities, companies must first report receipt needs, specify their provinces, cities and counties, and then send local workers to Ouhai region to reassign them to Wenzhou after completing 20 employees.
在从湖北接人无望之际，王经理只能先考虑其他省份的员工。
In the hopelessness of picking up people from Hubei, Wang had to consider employees from other provinces first.
但麻烦的是，并不是每次都像江西赣州那趟一样顺利。
But the trouble is, not every time it goes as smoothly as Ganzhou in Jiangxi Province.
电子厂在贵州有七名员工，这些员工居住分散，毕节、六盘水等地都有。
The electronics factory has seven employees in Guizhou who live in scattered areas such as Bi Jie and Six Plates of Water.
区域跨度大，统一集合不便。
Large area span, the unified collection is not convenient.
虽然包车早早已经派往当地，但由于一直没凑够人数，这部分员工就无法接回来。
Although the charters had been dispatched to the area early on, the staff could not be retrieved because the number had not been made available.
“瓯海在贵州的招工负责人告诉我，去外地接人并不简单。
"Ou Hai in Guizhou recruitment director told me, to pick up people from the outside world is not simple.
当地政府有的配合，有的根本不配合，那就很尴尬。
It's embarrassing when the local government either cooperates or doesn't cooperate at all.
他一连吃了几天馒头和泡面，每天几乎都要打一整天电话，去协调政府和企业的各种需求。
He ate steamed bread and noodles for days at a time, making phone calls almost every day to coordinate the needs of the government and the enterprises.
”或许正是因此，王经理很欣赏区政府的包车计划。
Perhaps it is for this reason that Wang appreciates the district government's car charter program.
在他印象中，温州市和瓯海区是整个浙江率先派车接员工复工的地区之一。
In his mind, Wenzhou and Ouhai were one of the first areas in Zhejiang to send cars back to work.
他觉得政府的人想得很超前，意识到疫情过后，员工将会是企业复工的最大难题。
He thinks the government is ahead of the curve, realising that employees will be the biggest problem in getting the company back to work once the epidemic is over.
于是，瓯海区各单位在第一时间就派专人去外地把员工带回来，同时还就地招工，以缓解企业用工压力。
Thus, the Ouhai Ou units in the first time to send special personnel to the field to bring back employees, but also local recruitment, to ease the pressure on enterprises.
他记得很清楚的是，在电子厂从赣州接回那批员工的第二天，温州市市长就自己带队去外省招工了。
It was clear to him that the day after the electronics factory picked up the workers from Ganzhou, the mayor of Wenzhou took his team to the province to recruit.
在免费包车接人之外，瓯海区发布的复工优惠政策还规定，自行驾车和坐车返回瓯海的员工，车费均由政府补贴；若企业集中租房的员工超过总人数的10%，租金则补贴10%；对那些“新瓯海人”，如果提前返回复工还会有相应积分，后续落户和子女上学等都将受益。
Ouhai Ouhai provides government subsidies for drivers and workers returning to Ouhai by car, 10 percent for those who rent centrally, and 10 percent for those who move to Ouhai. For those who return early, there will be bonus points for those who return early.
“口罩用不了几天”过去一周，温州全市的疫情形势趋于稳定，没有再出现新增病例。
The situation in Wenzhou has stabilized over the past week and there have been no new cases.
截至2月26日，有7个县（市、区）疫情风险等级调降，为全省最多。
As of February 26, seven counties (cities and districts) had reduced their epidemic risk level, the highest in the province.
但随着企业陆续复工，人员再度开始流动，压力实际并未减轻。
However, the pressure has not actually abated as businesses have resumed work and personnel have begun to move again.
温州自2月16日起启用“健康码”这一电子通行凭证。
Wenzhou since February 16 to launch the "health code" this electronic passbook.
根据全国疫情风险程度、个人在疫情严重地区停留时间次数、与密接人员接触状态等信息，健康码分为绿码、黄码和红码，用于在温州区域通行和返岗时的身份验证。
According to the degree of epidemic risk, the number of times a person stays in an epidemic area and the state of contact with close contacts, the health codes are divided into green, yellow and red codes, which are used to authenticate when passing through and returning from work in Wenzhou.
王经理解释称，码的颜色会动态变化。
Manager Wang explained that the color of the code will change dynamically.
现在只允许绿码直接放行，黄码和红码要居家或者集中隔离7天、14天。
Green code is now allowed to pass directly, yellow and red code to the home or centralized isolation for 7 days, 14 days.
他们厂子回来的员工，只有健康码是绿色，同时体温正常，才被允许复工上班。
Only the employees whose health codes were green and whose body temperature was normal were allowed to return to work.
按照此前瓯海区政府划定的复工要求，包括这家电子厂在内的重点企业和高新企业是第一批复工。
Key companies, including the electronics factory, and high-tech companies were among the first to resume work, according to requirements previously laid down by the Ouhai government.
在重新开工之前，管委会或街道会来人检查是否符合复工标准，每家企业和政府之间均有网格员负责对接。
Before work resumes, the MC or the street will check to see if the reinstatement criteria are met, with a grid man between each company and the government.
“现在是疫情防控要抓，复工也要抓。
"Now is the time for epidemic prevention and control, and to get back to work.
如果只考虑复工，万一出现一个病例，那厂子就全封了；但如果只重视搞疫情，很多厂子肯定又要死掉。
If only one case were to be considered, the whole plant would be sealed; but if only the epidemic were to be taken seriously, many factories would surely die again.
”他说。
'he said.
两面紧张中的电子厂不得不小心翼翼。
The tense electronics factory on both sides had to be careful.
据王经理介绍，目前其员工在就餐时，每张桌子只允许一个人就餐，人与人之间相隔两米，而且是面朝同一方向，严格禁止面对面吃饭。
At the moment, only one person is allowed to eat at each table, two meters apart and facing the same direction, and face-to-face eating is strictly prohibited, Wang said.
但最要紧的是复工后防护设备的短缺，其中最缺的依然是口罩。
But what matters most is the shortage of protective equipment after the resumption of work, the most missing of which is still masks.
所幸，由于线路板生产的特性，员工平时工作时就需要佩戴口罩，因此厂里的仓库在年前还有2000个存货。
Fortunately, due to the nature of circuit board production, employees are required to wear masks when they work, so the warehouse in the factory had 2,000 items in stock a year ago.
“这些口罩是工业用的，每天只能给每人发一个。
"These face masks are industrial and can only be given one per day.
我向管委会提了物资申请，对方说可以先报上去，但也无法保证一定可以解决。
I made a material application to the management committee, the other side said that can be reported first, but there is no guarantee that it can be resolved.
现在市面上根本买不到，我估计他们那也缺。
It's not available now, and I guess they're in short supply.
”而为各种复工难题发愁的企业并非少数。
And not a few businesses fret about the return to work dilemma.
相比那些大型或资本技术密集型企业，劳动密集型的中小企业复工进度尤其缓慢。
Labour-intensive small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly slow to return to work than those that are large or capital-intensive.
企业规模越小，复工率则越低。
The smaller the enterprise, the lower the return rate.
据工信部官员日前透露，该部门对240万户使用云平台和电商平台的中小企业监控发现，全国中小企业复工率只有30%左右，形势仍然严峻。
The department's monitoring of 2.4 million small and medium-sized enterprises using cloud platforms and power business platforms found that only about 30 percent of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises are back to work, and the situation is still grim, officials said.
其中人员流动受阻、资金困难、订单交付难以及产业链配套难，成为主要障碍。
Among them, the obstruction of the movement of personnel, financial difficulties, difficult delivery of orders and difficult industrial chain, become the main obstacle.
为了提供复工便利，目前温州已取消任何形式的复工复产审批程序。
In order to provide facilities for the resumption of work, Wenzhou has now cancelled any form of resumption of work approval process.
在瓯海区的梧田街道，111个防疫卡口一夜之间全部改成了服务站，以确保做好返工人员登记、复工企业备案。
In Wutian street in the Ouhai area, 111 vaccination gates were converted overnight into service stations to ensure the registration of reworkers and the registration of enterprises.
尽管如此，王经理心头的包袱仍然不轻。
Despite this, the burden on Wang's mind is still not light.
“我们厂年前有一些订单，交付期没那么赶，所以当时计划年后做完再交，但没想到遭遇这么大的疫情。
"We had some orders a few years ago and the delivery date was not that fast, so we planned to hand it in a few years, but we didn't expect such a big outbreak.
虽然有比较固定的客户，但如果你一直赶不上工，客户又着急要货，那这些订单肯定就丢了。
Although there are more regular customers, but if you have been unable to catch up with the work, customers anxious to order goods, then these orders must be lost.
”他忧心忡忡地表示。
"he said.
按照他的估计，如果疫情再持续两个月，丢失了客户的很多小厂就不得不关门。
He estimates that if the outbreak continues for another two months, many of the small factories that lost customers will have to close.
他有点无奈地说，“今年要考虑的不是赚多少钱，而是要先活下去。
"This year it's not how much money to make, but how much to live on," he said helplessly.
”在同样的焦虑之中，温州下辖的瑞安市已经贴出通告，2月底前复工企业如紧缺防护物资的，市政府将免费配送5天相应物资。
In the same anxiety, the city of Ruian, under Wenzhou's jurisdiction, has posted a notice saying that if enterprises start work before the end of February and run short of protective materials, the municipal government will distribute the corresponding materials for five days free of charge.
首次在当地就业并参保的外地员工，将获得500-1000元奖励；距离温州两百公里外的义乌，也已经派出数批包车，分头赶往云南、湖南、安徽、甘肃等地“招工抢人”；一些温州工厂还在网上频繁发布招聘信息，提出全国免费接送、报销入职车费等口号，希望招徕到更多一线工人。
Some Wenzhou factories have posted job advertisements frequently on the Internet, offering slogans such as free transportation and reimbursement of entry-on-board fares, hoping to attract more frontline workers.
他们都不想束手待毙。
They don't want to die.
王经理也仍然在为电子厂的复工紧张忙碌。
Manager Wang is still busy with the resumption of work at the electronics factory.
厂里的生产线逐渐启动，不过库存的那些口罩支撑不了几天。
The factory's production line was gradually activated, but the stock of masks did not last for several days.
之后怎么办，他还不知道。
What to do afterwards, he did not know.
但他不得不继续招聘——因为只有足够的人手复工，厂子接下来才能更有希望。
But he had to keep hiring - because only with enough people back on the job would the factory be any more hopeful.
*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Headline purchase in Visual China Recommended Reading Solemn Statement: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工。
Eight executives and more than 20 employees were stranded in Hubei, a factory in Wenzhou, before returning to work.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "8名高管、20多名员工滞留湖北，一家温州工厂的艰难复工";。
var msg _ title = & quot; eight executives and more than 20 employees at a Wenzhou factory in Hubei province.
var msg_desc = "先活下去。
var msg _ desc = & quot; lived first.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '生活正在起变化',。
A: Life is changing & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & & quot; &.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '滞留湖北的5个外地人和他们的5种遭遇',。
5 outsiders at Hubei & amp; their 5 & amp; quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '直播卖车能救车企吗？',。
A: Can a live car sell a car at the company's service?
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
