对话武汉一线医护人员：所有隔离病房已饱和，身边已有同事感染/* declared */。
Dialogue Script 1 1 Wuhan First-line medical staff: All the isolation wards are saturated with colleagues already infected / * declared * /.
对话武汉一线医护人员：所有隔离病房已饱和，身边已有同事感染<br>。
Wuhan First Line: All isolation wards are saturated with AT & L's service. & nbsp; BR;
| title       = 对话武汉一线医护人员：所有隔离病房已饱和，身边已有同事感染。
Dialogue 1 Wuhan First-line medical personnel: All isolation wards have been saturated and colleagues have been infected.
对话武汉一线医护人员：所有隔离病房已饱和，身边已有同事感染。
Wuhan first-line medical personnel: All isolation wards have been saturated, colleagues have been infected.
陈鑫 马乔 等。
Chen Xin Ma Qiao etc.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：海洛创意记者：陈鑫 马乔欧云别力克“ 界面新闻对话武汉某医院一线参与救治感染新型冠状病毒患者的护士。
Source: Hailo Creative Journalist: Chen Xin Ma Qiao Oyun Berek "Interface News Dialogue" Wuhan hospital first-line treatment of patients infected with the new coronavirus nurses.
”武汉因疫情成为舆论焦点。
Wuhan has become the focus of public opinion because of the epidemic.
截至1月22日24时，国家卫健委收到国内25个省（区、市）累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例571例，其中重症95例，死亡17例（均来自湖北省）。
As of 2400 hours on January 22, the National Health Commission had received a total of 571 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection in 25 provinces (districts and municipalities) of the country, 95 of which were severe and 17 of which were fatal (all from Hubei Province).
13个省（区、市）累计报告疑似病例393例。
A total of 393 suspected cases have been reported in 13 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities.
在武汉宣布“封城”后，界面新闻对话当地一家知名医院正在一线参与救治感染新型冠状病毒患者的护士。
After Wuhan announced the closure of the city, a well-known local hospital is involved in the front-line treatment of patients infected with the new coronavirus nurses.
据这名医护人员介绍，2019年12月底，该院发现第一起武汉新型冠状病毒感染病例之后，病患数量开始剧增。
By the end of December 2019, the hospital found the first case of Wuhan coronavirus infection and the number of patients began to rise sharply, the doctor said.
“这段时间医生和护士都处于超负荷运转的状态，每天都要加班。
"Doctors and nurses are overworked all the time and have to work overtime every day.
”“所有的隔离病房已经处于饱和的状态。
"" All the isolation wards are already saturated.
”这名医护人员说，很多病人如果症状不清的话，医生会开一些口服治疗药物或者白天在发热门诊输液治疗。
Many patients will be prescribed oral medication or given infusion in a fever clinic during the day if their symptoms are unclear, the paramedics said.
因为床位非常紧张，他们之中一部分人要居家隔离。
Because the beds are so tight, some of them have to be kept at home.
甚至一些病人已经达到了住院标准，但是因为没有床，也只能实行居家隔离。
Some patients have even met hospitalization standards, but since there are no beds, they can only be isolated at home.
界面新闻：你们医院最早是什么时候有第一例疑似病例和确诊病例的？护士：是我们科室大概在2019年12月底发现的。
Interface News: When did your hospital first have a suspected or confirmed case? Nurse: Our department found out about the end of December 2019.
在知道华南海鲜批发市场这条新闻之后，我们就开始筛选自己的病人，并询问病人有无相关接触史。
After learning about the news at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market, we began screening our patients and asking them if they had any relevant contact history.
界面新闻：请问刚开始出现不明肺炎的时候，医院和当地卫生部门是怎么研判的？之后又是如何一步一步紧张起来的？护士：大家都开始警惕，我们并没有把它当作普通的流感。
How did the hospital and the local health authorities decide when pneumonia first appeared? Then how did they get nervous step by step? Nurse: We all began to be wary that we didn't treat it as an ordinary flu.
2019年12月31号，医院发布关于不明原因肺炎如何排查、会诊以及如何确定疑似病例的文件。
On 31 December 2019, the hospital issued a document on how pneumonia due to unknown causes is screened, consulted and suspected cases identified.
我们上报疾控中心之后，疾控中心当时并没有采样。
CDC did not take samples when we reported it to the CDC.
采样和确诊都需要通知，如果没有通知的话就不能进行采样确诊。
Both sampling and diagnosis require notification, and if there is no notification, no sampling can be performed to confirm the diagnosis.
医院在2020年1月4号成立了专门的发热门诊，避免这些病人跟急诊的病人混在一起。
The hospital set up a special fever clinic on January 4, 2020, to avoid mixing these patients with patients in emergency cases.
界面新闻：网上流传，武汉目前有医院出现了拒收的情况。
Interface News: Online circulation, Wuhan has a hospital at present refused to accept.
护士：我觉得可能存在床位满了确实收不了的情况，我们医院现在所有的隔离病区都已经处于饱和状态。
Nurse: I think there may be a situation where the beds are full and we can't get them. All the quarantine areas in our hospital are already saturated.
据我所知，发热门诊甚至连走廊上都已经有留院观察的病人坐着输液。
As far as I know, the fever clinic has patients sitting on infusion even in the hallway.
但是我相信没有哪一家医院会在有床的情况下拒收。
But I don't think any hospital would refuse to accept a bed if it had one.
界面新闻：医生会建议哪些就诊患者进行居家隔离？护士：有很多病人如果症状不清的话，医生会根据他的病情来开一些口服治疗药物，或者白天在发热门诊输液治疗。
Interface News: Which patients do your doctor recommend for home seclusion? Nurse: There are a lot of patients who, if the symptoms are unclear, will be prescribed some oral treatment depending on their condition, or treated with a fever clinic during the day.
因为现在床位非常紧张，没有床位，他们之中可能有一部分人要居家隔离。
Because beds are tight and there are no beds, some of them may be kept at home.
甚至有一些病人已经达到了住院标准，但是因为没有床，也只能实行居家隔离。
Some patients have even met hospitalization standards, but since there are no beds, they can only be isolated at home.
居家隔离的人数应该还是挺多的。
The number of people living in isolation should still be high.
目前我们建议居家隔离病人实行两周观察期，以口服药治疗为主。
At present, we recommend home isolation patients to implement a two-week observation period, mainly oral treatment.
如果觉得自己病情加重可以随时到医院就诊。
If you feel worse, you can go to the hospital anytime.
据我所知，也有居家隔离演变成确诊的情况。
So far as I know, there have also been cases where home isolation has turned into a diagnosis.
界面新闻：目前对于确诊或者重症患者，会采用什么治疗方案？比如说新闻报道里面所说的使用ECMO（体外膜肺氧合技术）成功治愈患者的案例。
Interface News: What treatment options are available for patients who have been diagnosed or seriously ill, such as the successful use of ECMO (External Membrane Pulmonary Oxidation) in news reports.
护士：目前我们主流的治疗方案主要还是进行抗病毒抗感染，然后根据病人其他的症状来进行对症治疗。
Nurse: At present, our mainstream treatment regimen is mainly anti-viral, then symptomatic treatment according to the patient's other symptoms.
ECMO（体外膜肺氧合技术）是一种急救技术，主要在急诊科使用。
ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygen Combination) is a first aid technique mainly used in emergency departments.
能用到ECMO技术的应该是重症中的重症，这个技术并不是这种病的常规治疗手段。
ECMO technology should be used in severe cases, this technology is not the routine treatment of the disease.
新闻中所说的应该不是治愈了患者，只不过可能是这个患者在病毒性肺炎病情到了危重的程度后用了ECMO技术之后将病人成功抢救。
The news isn't supposed to cure the patient, but it could be that the patient was successfully treated with ECMO after the viral pneumonia reached critical levels.
目前应该是暂时稳定了患者的病情。
The patient's condition should be stabilized for the time being.
界面新闻：在接触疑似或者确诊的病例过程中你主要是做些什么工作？护士：我们主要还是对病人进行护理工作。
Interface News: What kind of work do you do when you are in contact with a suspected or confirmed caseNurse: We still work mainly with patients.
平时该进行的护理其实都跟其它的病人一样，只不过我们把他们进行了隔离观察。
The usual care is the same as the rest of the patients, but we've isolated them.
我们自身也要做好防护。
We must protect ourselves.
界面新闻：医护人员现在防护措施是否有升级？护士：出现这种传染性疾病对于防护标准是有规定的。
Interface News: Are there any upgrades for healthcare personnel? Nurse: There are rules about how to protect against this infectious disease.
我们科室从最一开始就是标准预防，根据你跟病人接触的程度采取什么样的防护。
Our department has been a standard prophylaxis from the very beginning, based on how much protection you take with your patients.
比如病人在隔离病房里面，如果只是进入隔离病房走廊的话可以只穿隔离衣。
For example, patients in isolation wards, if only into the isolation ward corridor can only wear isolation clothing.
如果密切接触病人进行操作，需要穿防护服、戴护目镜或者戴面屏面罩或者头盔。
If you are in close contact with a patient, wear protective clothing, goggles or a face mask or helmet.
你采取什么样的防护，取决于你跟病人是进行一个什么样的接触。
What kind of protection you take depends on what kind of contact you have with the patient.
界面新闻：现在有报道说很多防护用品断货了。
Interface News: Now there are reports that many protective products are out of stock.
医院目前在这一方面的物资储备还够用吗？护士：我们医院应该的储备非常充足，已经提前备好了防护用品。
Nurse: Our hospital should have a very large stock and we have all the protective equipment in place in advance.
一次性防护用品是每个科室或者每个隔离病区根据自己的需要量申领。
Disposable protective equipment is required by each department or area according to its own needs.
使用过的医疗垃圾的处理也是有一定的规范程序。
There are also some standard procedures for the disposal of used medical waste.
界面新闻：那到目前为止，你们医院的医护人员被感染得多吗？护士：感染科室医护人员感染人数最多。
Interface News: So far, have your hospital staff been infected much more? Nurse: The infection department has the highest number of patients.
我们科室的工作人员今天去做了检查有3例疑似病例，目前都在隔离观察。
The staff of our department went to have a check-up today. There are three suspected cases, all of which are being observed in isolation.
界面新闻：工作强度有多大？护士：医护人员相对于病人来说本来就比较少。
Interface News: How Intensive Is the Job Intensity Nurse: There aren't as many paramedics as there are patients.
现在的病人量剧增，医生和护士都处于超负荷运转的状态，每天都要加班。
There is a huge increase in the number of patients. Doctors and nurses are overloaded and have to work overtime every day.
以我们的科室为例，最近这一段时间全员都在加班。
In our department, for example, the entire staff has been working overtime these days.
有很多医生和护士可能每天工作要10小时以上，像今天我工作了快13个小时。
There are many doctors and nurses who may work more than 10 hours a day, like today I work nearly 13 hours.
我们科主任在发热门诊倒班，一个班上8到9个小时，中间完全没有时间吃饭，喝水或者去厕所。
Our section director works shifts at the fever clinic, 8 to 9 hours a class, with no time for meals, water or toilet breaks.
界面新闻：目前大概要隔离多久才能确认？护士：这个病的中位数隔离的潜伏期是14天左右，我们科室的同事刚开始没有发热症状，但是CT查出来确实有疑似病毒性肺炎的改变，所以先进行居家隔离。
Nurse: The incubation period of median isolation for this disease is about 14 days, and my colleagues in our department didn't have any fever at first, but the CT did detect a suspected change in viral pneumonia, so stay home-quarantined.
因为他们没有相关症状，今天甚至还在正常上班。
They are even at work today because they have no symptoms.
界面新闻：你们每天回到家之后会担心把一些病毒或者细菌带到家里吗？护士：说实话，我非常担心。
Interface News: Do you worry about bringing some viruses or bacteria home every day after you get homeNurse: To be honest, I'm very worried.
作为一个妈妈，我的孩子都还非常小。
As a mother, my children are very young.
我跟我同事讲，我甚至都不怕自己被感染，但是很怕把病毒带到家里传染给孩子。
I told my colleagues that I wasn't even afraid of getting infected, but I was afraid to bring the virus home to my children.
所以我所知道的大部分科室的医护人员，都把孩子送到了其他的地方，自己一个人待在武汉。
So most of the doctors and nurses in the departments I know sent their children to other places and stayed alone in Wuhan.
界面新闻：会不会担心下一个被感染者就出现在自己的身边？护士：我身边已经有了感染者，我们每个人都会担心下一个被查出来是自己，只能时刻提醒自己做好防护。
Interface News: Do you worry about the next infected person appearing next to youNurse: I already have an infected person with me, and each of us is afraid that the next person to be identified will be himself.
我现在下班之后尽量不出门，回家之后用消毒液浸泡清洗，进行紫外线杀毒。
I now try not to go out after work, home after soaking with disinfectant cleaning, UV anti-virus.
我就怕我将病毒传染给别人，危害到别人的健康。
I was afraid that I would infect others with the virus, endangering the health of others.
作为医护人员，我们也是普通人，也害怕生老病死，也有对死亡的恐惧，害怕被感染。
As health-care workers, we are also ordinary people, afraid to die of old age, death, fear of death, fear of infection.
但是既然干了这一行，这就是我们的责任。
But since we're in the business, that's our responsibility.
在病人面前，我们就得做好自己的事情。
In front of the sick, we have to do our own thing.
我认为医生不能说特别伟大，也不是特别高尚，但至少是比较勇敢的职业。
I don't think a doctor can be particularly great, not particularly noble, but at least braver.
在这样一种艰难的时刻，作为医护人员我必须得在一线，同时也值得被人尊敬。
At a difficult time like this, I have to be on the front line as a paramedic and deserve respect.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
对话武汉一线医护人员：所有隔离病房已饱和，身边已有同事感染。
Wuhan first-line medical personnel: All isolation wards have been saturated, colleagues have been infected.
