是非功过如何评，中疾控撰文详述武汉“封城”。
How to comment on the merits of the disease control article in Wuhan "closure."
孙滔。
Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
武汉 “封城” 功过几何，国内外评价不一。
Wuhan "seal city" has done geometry, domestic and foreign evaluation is different.
以《纽约时报》为代表的国外媒体对其颇多负面评价。
Foreign media, represented by The New York Times, gave it a negative assessment.
这些观点认为，尽管这些措施能起到一定程度上限制病毒传播速度的作用，但造成的巨大社会和经济成本是巨大的，尤其是会造成民众恐慌和医疗资源挤兑。
According to these views, while these measures can play a role in limiting the spread of the virus to some extent, the social and economic costs are enormous, especially in terms of panic among the population and runs on medical resources.
《自然》杂志也引述昆士兰大学病毒学家批评称，“封城”相当于把武汉变成一个巨大的细胞培养皿，所有人互相传染，将制造出更多病例。
The journal Nature also quotes virologists from the University of Queensland as saying that sealing the city amounts to turning Wuhan into a giant cell dish, where everyone infects each other and creates more cases.
世界卫生组织（WHO）内部也有不同声音。
There are different voices within the World Health Organization (WHO).
其驻中国代表高力 (Gauden Galea) 表示，试图封闭一个 1100 万人口的城市是科学上的新课题。
Gauden Galea, its representative in China, said the attempt to close a city of 11 million people was a new scientific issue.
这样的公共卫生措施前所未有，会不会奏效还很难说。
Such public-health measures are unprecedented, and it is far from certain that they will work.
图 | 北京时间 2 月 24 日晚 7 点 30 分，中国 - 世界卫生组织新冠肺炎联合专家考察组在北京召开了新闻发布会。
At 7: 30 p.m. Beijing time on February 24, a joint China-World Health Organization (WHO) team of experts on New Crown Pneumonia held a press conference in Beijing.
2 月 17 日，中国疾控系统研究人员在《中华预防医学杂志》发表《我国新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情早期围堵策略概述》对中国的围堵策略做了阐述和评价。
On February 17, Chinese researchers on disease control system published in the Chinese Journal of Preventive Medicine "China's new coronavirus pneumonia in the early containment strategy outlined the strategy of China's containment strategy and evaluation.
该文认为，整体来看，围堵策略措施的实施降低了除武汉外中国其他地区出现社区持续传播的风险，延缓了流行高峰到来时间，缓解了医疗资源的压力，为应对可能出现的严重流行准备争取了宝贵时间，但也对武汉等疫情较重地区的人民生活和社会生产造成了一定的影响，经济和社会成本巨大。
As a whole, the implementation of the containment strategy reduces the risk of continuous community transmission in other parts of China except Wuhan, delays the arrival of the epidemic peak, relieves the pressure on medical resources and gains valuable time to prepare for possible severe epidemics, but also has a certain impact on people's lives and social production in places such as Wuhan.
此文通讯作者系中国疾病预防控制中心传染病管理处研究员冯录召。
The writer of this article is Feng Luo-chuen of Infectious Disease Control Center of China.
作者署名多达 20 人，除了 1 人来自南宁市疾病预防控制中心外，其他作者均来自中国疾控中心。
The author signed up to 20 people, except one from Nanning City Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the other authors are from China CDC.
WHO 背书的围堵策略隔离检疫法起源于意大利，1370 年在威尼斯首次制定以用来阻止黑死病。
The containment strategy endorsed by WHO originated in Italy and was first developed in Venice in 1370 to stop the Black Death.
冯录召等人的论文指出，围堵策略（containment）于 2005 年由 WHO 提出，作为流感大流行防控的指导性策略。
According to Feng's paper, containment was proposed by the World Health Organization in 2005 as a guiding strategy for pandemic preparedness.
这种策略主要是在新发传染病疫情早期，在限定的地理范围内，采用医学和非医学（区域封锁、停学和停工等）干预策略和措施，以迅速阻断疫情传播。
This strategy is based on the use of medical and non-medical intervention strategies and measures (regional blockades, school suspensions and lockouts, etc.), within a limited geographical area, in the early stages of an emerging infectious disease epidemic, in order to rapidly interrupt the spread of the epidemic.
1 月 23 日，武汉市宣布全市离汉通道暂时关闭。
On January 23, Wuhan city announced the temporary closure of the Han corridor.
此时为病毒传播初期，其他地区的输入病例尚未引起广泛社区传播，专家判断仍有将疫情围堵在湖北等局限范围的可能性。
At this point for the initial stage of virus transmission, other areas of input cases have not caused widespread community transmission, experts judge that there is still the possibility of containment of the epidemic in Hubei and other limited areas.
当时正值中国春节人员出行高峰，对武汉等存在社区传播的地区实施围堵策略，以期将疫情围堵在武汉等有限地区。
At the same time, during the Spring Festival travel peak, Wuhan and other areas where there is community transmission of containment strategy, in order to block the epidemic in Wuhan and other limited areas.
图 | 中国新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情早期围堵策略及核心措施。
Figure & # 124; Early containment strategy and core measures for the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak in China.
（来源：中华预防医学杂志）该策略的核心措施包括封锁疫区，加强病例隔离和密切接触者管理、减少人员流动（交通管控和限制出行等），增加人际距离（停止大型活动、学校延迟开学、工厂推迟复工）和促进公众个人预防等。
(Source: Chinese Journal of Preventive Medicine) The strategy's core measures include sealing off epidemic areas, strengthening case isolation and close contact management, reducing mobility (traffic control and travel restrictions, etc.), increasing people-to-people distances (stopping major activities, delaying the opening of schools, factory restarting) and promoting prevention among the general public.
这些措施在全国均适用，只是对于病例的发现与隔离的措施，武汉市做到了极致。
These measures are applicable all over the country, except for the detection of cases and isolation measures, Wuhan City has achieved the ultimate.
自 2 月 5 日起武汉市开始征用公共场所改建成方舱医院，力求在短时间内集中隔离收治大量的轻症患者，并且以社区网格为基础单元，采取上门排查与自查自报相结合的方式，实施全民拉网式排查，达到”应查尽查，应收尽收，应治尽治”的目标。
Since February 5, Wuhan has begun to requisition public places and convert them into a square-cabin hospital, aiming to isolate and treat a large number of light patients within a short period of time.
对于密切接触者追踪与管理是全国性的。
The tracking and management of close contacts is national.
随着累计确诊、死亡报告病例数的增加，全国社区层面开始实行网格化、地毯式管理，重点追踪、督促来自疫情发生地区武汉市的人员，居家医学观察 14 天，发现异常情况及时报告并采取相应防控措施，防止疫情输入。
With the increase in the number of reported cases of diagnosis and death, the national community level began to implement grid-based and blanket management, focusing on tracking and urging personnel from Wuhan city where the outbreak occurred.
随着聚集性疫情的增加，自 2 月 2 日起，部分省市如天津、山东、甘肃、江苏南京市、云南规定所有密切接触者必须到指定留观场所集中医学观察，不再采取居家隔离方式，防止疫情扩散。
Since February 2, with the increase of concentrated epidemic diseases, some provinces and municipalities, such as Tianjin, Shandong, Gansu, Nanjing, Jiangsu and Yunnan, have required all close contacts to concentrate medical observation at designated detention facilities, and to stop the spread of the epidemic by using home isolation.
增加人际距离的主要措施是减少公众聚集活动，企业延迟复工和学校推迟开学，延长春节假期以及城乡社区管理。
The main measures to increase interpersonal distance were the reduction of public gatherings, delays in the resumption of business and school start-ups, the extension of the Spring Festival and the management of urban and rural communities.
对于城乡社区管理日趋严格。
Stringent management of urban and rural communities.
1 月 26 日，要求各地对社区和村进行严格管理，封村封路，在居民小区、村的出入口设立劝阻点，除就医和必要工作生活需要外，原则上不得外出；2 月 2 日起，除武汉外全国绝大多数居民小区陆续实行封闭式管理，根据小区规模保留 1~2 个出入口，其他通道全部关闭；小区居民凭临时出入证进出，非该小区的外来车辆、人员一律不准进入；部分小区要求每户家庭间隔一定时间指派 1 名家庭成员，在做好防护措施的基础上出门采购生活物资。
On January 26, all localities were required to exercise strict control over the communities and villages, seal off the roads, set up dissuasive points at the entrances and exits of residential areas and villages, and not go out in principle except for medical treatment and necessary working life.
围堵效果几何图 | 中国的新冠肺炎流行曲线。
Containment Effect Geometry & # 144; & # 44; China's New Crown Pneumonia prevalence curve.
（来源：世界卫生组织）冯录召等人承认，尽管世界卫生组织在大流感防控中曾提出类似的策略，但在许多国家是难以实施的。
(Source: World Health Organization) Dr Frederick Fung and others acknowledge that while the World Health Organization has proposed similar strategies in pandemic preparedness, they are difficult to implement in many countries.
他们认为，在应对新发传染病时，中国有政府指导下的多部门统筹协调、群众积极响应，以及 2003 年非典和 2009 年甲型流感大流行应对经验，因此具备实施围堵策略的优势。
They believe that China has the advantage of implementing containment strategy when dealing with new infectious diseases through multi-sectoral coordination under the guidance of the government, positive response from the public, and experience in handling the SARS and influenza A pandemics in 2003 and 2009.
已经有研究提示，武汉在疫情早期采取的病例隔离、出行限制、增加人际距离和个人防护措施可以有效减少感染和死亡例数，若未采取围堵策略的任何核心措施，最终的感染者例数相比于武汉市目前（截至 2 月 4 日）感染人数将存在数量级差异。
Studies have shown that Wuhan can effectively reduce the number of infections and deaths by isolating cases, limiting travel, increasing interpersonal distance and taking personal protective measures in the early stages of the epidemic. Without any of the core containment measures, the final number of infected people would be orders of magnitude different from the current (as of February 4) number of cases in Wuhan.
有研究称，全国不同地区的出行限制可使新冠肺炎病毒从武汉市传播到国内其他城市的速度延迟 2.9 天。
Travel restrictions in different parts of the country have delayed transmission of the virus from Wuhan to other cities by 2.9 days, a study said.
还有研究称，现阶段北京采取 7 天的出行限制措施（无暴露人员进入）可使感染人数减少 91%。
Other studies say Beijing's seven-day travel restrictions, which allow undisclosed people to enter, could cut the number of people infected by 91 percent.
冯录召等人认为，整体来看，围堵策略措施的实施降低了除武汉外国内其他地区出现社区持续传播的风险，延缓了流行高峰到来时间，缓解了医疗资源的压力，为应对可能出现的严重流行争取了宝贵时间。
Overall, Feng said, the implementation of containment measures has reduced the risk of continued community transmission in other parts of the country except Wuhan, slowed the onset of the epidemic, eased the pressure on medical resources and bought valuable time to respond to a possible severe epidemic.
不过论文中也承认，“封城”对武汉民众的生活和社会生产造成了一定的影响，经济和社会成本巨大。
However, the paper also admitted that the "closure" of Wuhan people's lives and social production has had a certain impact, the economic and social costs are huge.
大量病例由于隔离治疗、密切接触者集中隔离观察，对其家庭造成一定损失和影响，建议各地政府考虑给予一定社会支持，提供必要的服务和救助，保障老、孤、病、残、孕、无固定收入等脆弱人群的基本生活不受严重影响。
A large number of cases have caused certain losses and impacts on their families as a result of isolated treatment and intensive observation by close contacts. It is recommended that local governments consider providing some social support, providing necessary services and assistance, and ensuring that the basic livelihood of vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, orphans, the sick, the disabled, pregnant and those without a regular income, is not seriously affected.
论文提醒说，还要特别注意养老院、福利院、寓所等服务机构的疫情防控工作，保障医疗物资的供应，加强防护措施，预防在此类机构中发生暴发疫情。
The paper warned that special attention should be paid to the prevention and control of diseases in nursing homes, welfare homes and apartments, ensure the supply of medical materials, strengthen protective measures and prevent outbreaks of disease in such institutions.
武汉市相关部门对此疏忽了。
Wuhan city relevant departments have neglected this.
据财新网报道，武汉市社会福利院距离华南海鲜市场仅数百米，2019 年 12 月至 2020 年 2 月密集死亡 19 人，除一人确诊新冠后死亡外，死因为肺部感染的老人有 6 名，均未排查新冠，另有多人死因登记为感染性休克、急性心肌梗死、猝死、心律失常，但其中出现发烧症状的不在少数。
According to Caixin, Wuhan Social Welfare Home is only a few hundred meters from the South China seafood market, 19 people died intensively between December 2019 and February 2020. With the exception of one confirmed death in the postnatal period, 6 people died from lung infection.
论文指出，考虑根据策略措施实施的成本效果，可尽快调整和优化现有防控措施，精准施策，制定不同区域、不同流行水平和特点的分类指导防控策略。
The paper points out that considering the cost-effectiveness of the implementation of the strategy measures, we can adjust and optimize the existing control measures as soon as possible.
WHO 怎么说在 2 月 24 日新闻发布会上，中国 - 世界卫生组织新冠肺炎联合专家考察组外方组长、世界卫生组织总干事高级顾问布鲁斯 · 艾尔沃德（Bruce Aylward）表示，武汉方式、湖北方式是中国方式中的一种特殊方式，适用于出现社区传播的地区。
Bruce Aylward, senior adviser to the WHO director-general and head of the foreign team of the China-WHO Joint Expert Mission on New Crown Pneumonia, said at a press conference on Feb. 24 that the Wuhan and Hubei approaches were a special way of doing business in China and were suitable for areas where community transmission is occurring.
据《科学》报道，在考察组未公开发布的访问报告中得出结论，认为中国的疫情在 1 月 23 日至 2 月 2 日达到顶峰，中国在湖北省的积极封锁控制工作中，至少有 5000 万人处于 “居家封锁” 状态，为中国其他省份抵抗疫情的工作争取了宝贵时间，并最终预防了（其他省份）成千上万的病例。
According to Science, the team's unpublished visit report concluded that the Chinese epidemic peaked between January 23 and February 2, with at least 50 million people locked away in active blockade efforts in Hubei province, buying valuable time to fight the epidemic in other Chinese provinces and eventually preventing thousands of cases.
报告还提出，其他国家必须借鉴这一封锁工作的经验。
The report also suggests that other countries must learn from the experience of this embargo.
不一定要全面封锁，但也应该采取同样严格的举措。
The blockade need not be total, but equally stringent measures should be taken.
《科学》报道引述乔治城大学法律中心全球卫生政策专家劳伦斯 · 戈斯延（Lawrence Gostin）看法称，中国国内的限制措施让很多个人付出了巨大代价，这些政策是“令人震惊的、前所未有的、原始的”，并表示他特别关注湖北省内那些封闭在家中、受到严密监督、面临医疗服务短缺的人们的身心健康。
Lawrence Gostin, a global health policy expert at the Georgetown University Law Center, was quoted by the Science report as saying that China's domestic restrictions were "shocking, unprecedented and primitive" for many individuals, and said he was particularly concerned about the physical and mental health of people in Hubei province who were confined to their homes, under close supervision and facing shortages of medical care.
联合专家考察组中方组长、国家卫健委新冠肺炎疫情应对处置工作专家组组长梁万年表示，新冠病毒是很狡猾的，我们无法使用现有知识来应对，需要边阻止疫情、边总结经验、边改变措施和策略。
Liang Yuan, Chinese leader of the Joint Expert Group and head of the National Expert Group on New Crown Pneumonia, said that the new crown virus was cunning and that we could not use the existing knowledge to cope with it.
他承认，“我们早期对疾病的认识不够到位，这也是我们的局限。
"Our early knowledge of the disease was inadequate and that was our limitation," he admitted.
”对于武汉的下一步，梁万年建议对武汉还是要全力强化防控措施，既要强化防止输出，还要对患者、患者的密切接触者、疑似患者尽快诊断出来，把密切接触者都找出来，进行管理和治疗，这是防止新发病人的根本办法。
"As for Wuhan's next step, Liang recommended that Wuhan should make every effort to strengthen prevention and control measures, not only to strengthen the prevention of output, but also to patients, patients close contacts, suspected patients as soon as possible, to find close contacts, management and treatment, which is the fundamental way to prevent new cases.
布鲁斯 · 艾尔沃德说，“我们要认识到武汉人民所做出的贡献，世界亏欠你们！我想当这场疫情过去的时候，希望有机会代表世界再一次感谢武汉人民。
"We must recognize the contribution made by the Wuhan people and the world owes you a debt," Bruce Alvold said.
”-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
是非功过如何评，中疾控撰文详述武汉“封城”。
How to comment on the merits of the disease control article in Wuhan "closure."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "是非功过如何评，中疾控撰文详述武汉“封城”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉 “封城” 功过几何，国内外评价不一。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
以《纽约时报》为代表的国外媒体对其颇多负面评价。
Foreign media, represented by The New York Times, gave it a negative assessment.
这些观点认为，尽管";。
These views notwithstanding & quot;;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
