高考倒计时100天，这届高三学生只能“云誓师”了。
The countdown to the college entrance examination 100 days, this senior three students can only "cloud oath teacher."
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月21日，武汉市洪山体育馆方舱医院，一名高三学生患者桌子里放满书本。
February 21, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium Square Hospital, a high school student patient table full of books.
中青报·中青网记者鲁冲/摄作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 程盟超编辑 | 陈卓无论2020年如何特殊，有些事都会照常发生。
Chen Zhuo, a reporter with China Youth Daily and Lu Chong / photojournalist with China Youth Daily & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Chen Zhuo.
比如高考。
Take the college entrance exam.
按照通常的安排，2月28日，2020年高考将进入100天倒计时。
According to the usual arrangement, the 2020 college entrance examination will enter the 100-day countdown on February 28.
对于疫情阴影笼罩下的高三学生来说，那是他们必须全力以赴的另一场挑战。
That is another challenge that students in the third year of high school, overshadowed by the epidemic, must focus on.
他们目前还没法回到课堂。
They can't go back to class yet.
在山东烟台，一所县中的所有高三学生都被要求每天早晨6点半和晚上10点，分别拍一张书桌的照片发送给老师。
In Yantai, Shandong Province, all senior three students in a county were asked to take pictures of their desks at 6: 30am and 10: 00pm each morning.
即使如此，该校一位语文老师还是不放心，他每天早上6点半会准时开始给学生打电话，让他们背诵文言文。
Even so, one of the school's Chinese teachers was not sure. He would call the students at 6: 30 every morning and tell them to recite the Chinese essays.
不只一位高三学生说，以往教室黑板上的“高考倒计时”被移到了班级的QQ群。
More than one senior high school student said the "countdown to the college entrance examination" on the classroom blackboard had been moved to the class's QQ group.
如今，他们中不少人的学习备考都要依赖这些软件在线上进行。
Today, many of them rely on the software for their preparation.
这种特殊的备考方式让一位武汉的男生陷入纠结——他想报考飞行员，但是手机里网课实在太伤眼睛。
The special preparation for the exam got a guy in Wuhan stuck. He wanted to apply for a pilot, but the lessons on his cell phone hurt his eyes.
他要抓紧每一个课间做眼保健操。
He wants to do eye exercises every class.
对另一位武汉考生而言，他必须首先安抚自己焦虑的心情。
For another Wuhan candidate, he must first reassure himself of his anxiety.
春节期间，他每天起床，先看两眼手机：今天又多了多少病例，高考倒计时又少了一天。
During the Spring Festival, he gets up every day, first look at his cell phone: Today more cases, the countdown to the college entrance examination less a day.
那段时间，用手机看网课，做题的他总忍不住切换屏幕，瞅一眼铺天盖地的新闻。
At that time, with the mobile phone to see the Internet class, do the problem he could not help but switch screens, a glance at a myriad of news.
他说自己为疫情感到紧张，因为这是此刻的生活；也因高考焦虑，那关乎他的未来。
He said he was nervous about the outbreak, because it was life at the moment, and worried about the college entrance exam, which was about his future.
他需要抉择。
He needs a choice.
直到2月，他卸载了新闻App，不再看过多消息。
Until February, he unloaded the news App and stopped reading multiple messages.
他必须回归学习了。
He must return to his studies.
“独特”的高三特殊时期的学习备考，总会遇到意想不到的挑战，网络问题只是其中之一。
"Unique" high school three special period of study preparation, will always encounter unexpected challenges, the network problem is only one of them.
四川省凉山彝族自治州木里县某高中的高三学生苏小英说，她的班级本计划与成都的一所知名高中同步直播复习，大家都很期待。
Su Xiaoying, a senior at a senior high school in Muri County, Sichuan's Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture, said her class planned to review live in time for a well-known high school in Chengdu.
但测试后发现，不少同学家的网速根本不行。
But after the test found that many students of the home network speed is not good.
更让她担心的是，班里几位成绩尚可的同学，近来从未在班群里签到，“他们恐怕没有网络。
What worries her more is that several students in her class who are doing well have never signed up for class recently. "They probably don't have the Internet.
”她的不少老师在农村，网络环境比学生还差。
Many of her teachers are in the countryside, and the online environment is worse than their students.
日常答疑时，部分老师回复得慢，同学们干脆在班级群里互相讨论，自行解决。
When answering questions everyday, some teachers answer slowly, students simply in the class group to discuss with each other, solve their own problems.
陈兴才是昆明某县中的高三年级主任。
Chen Xingcai is a senior high school director of a county in Kunming.
他告诉中青报·中青网记者，即使是对网络要求很低的录播视频课，全年级的大约1200人中，也有100多人因网络不好或联系不到而无法按时参加。
He told China Youth Daily that even in low-demand video classes on the Internet, more than 100 of the 1,200 people in grade 1, 200 could not attend on time because of poor or inaccessible networks.
有关网速的吐槽很多。
Lots of spits about network speed.
一位成都的高三女生称，最害怕数学课网络不稳——卡上半分钟，一道题的讲解就跟不上。
A senior high school student in Chengdu said she was most afraid of the instability of the math class network - half a minute on the card, the explanation of a problem can not keep up.
来上几次，一节课在迷茫和焦虑中过去了。
A few times in the past, a class in confusion and anxiety passed.
李开在成都郊区的一所高中教高三历史。
Li Kai teaches high school history in a high school on the outskirts of Chengdu.
两个班90多名学生中，大约20人来自都周边山区。
Of the more than 90 students in the two classes, about 20 are from the surrounding mountainous areas.
这些孩子最近一直买手机流量包上直播课。
These kids have been buying mobile phone traffic packs for live lessons recently.
好几位同学说，一节课有十几分钟听不清。
Several students said they could not hear clearly for ten minutes in a class.
他感到心疼。
His heart ached.
“好的教师必须互动，上网课，反倒要竭力克服。
"Good teachers have to interact with each other, take classes online and do their best to overcome them.
”李开以往讲评试卷时总下意识问大家，“这道题为什么选错了？”如今，很多学生的网络环境不支持语音问答，一堆人在聊天栏打字——速度慢，表述还不清。
"Today, many students have Internet environments that don't support voice-answering, and a lot of people type in the chat boardroom -- it's slow and unclear.
他发现，网络教学没有互动，只能把所有知识点“大水漫灌”。
He found that the network teaching did not interact, only to "flood all the knowledge points."
身边人惊叹：你现在上课，语速也太快了。
People around you exclaim: You are now in class, speaking too fast.
李开很着急。
Li Ka was worried.
学校要求教师们每天到校，在讲台上直播。
Teachers are required to come to school every day and broadcast live from the podium.
看着空荡荡的座位，他想笑又想哭：每一节课时间都很紧，可效率却低，是“没有办法的办法”。
Looking at the empty seat, he wants to laugh and cry: every class is very tight, but the efficiency is low, is "no way."
有学生总结：尖子生觉得“网课”低效，差生压根儿不听，这种形式最适合中游学生。
Some students sum up: the top students think that "net lessons" is inefficient, poor students do not listen at all, this form is the most suitable for middle-school students.
李开的一位学生告诉他，有人虽然早自习在班级群签了到，其实依然躺在被窝。
One of Li Kai's students told him that although some students had signed up in class early, they were still lying in bed.
甘肃张掖某所高中的高三班主任朱老师每天查看直播课后台，发现有学生一节课只听15分钟就退出了。
Zhang Yue, a senior high school director of a high school in Zhangye, Gansu, teacher Zhu every day to watch live after class, found that students only listen to a 15-minute class on the exit.
他在课上连麦点名，总是有大约三成学生不在。
He calls the roll in class and about 30% of the students are always away.
事后的理由都是相似的，“我去上厕所了。
The reason for the incident was the same: "I went to the bathroom.
”更多学生的共识是：听网课，稍不注意就走神了。
The consensus of more students is that listening to online classes distracts them from the slightest attention.
老师和家长都在强调“自制力”。
Teachers and parents alike are emphasizing "self-control."
问题是，它并非一天养成的。
The problem is that it is not a one-day process.
湖南的一位高三男生承认，每天拿着手机复习，会在短视频、游戏和社交软件上消耗掉个把小时。
A senior three student in Hunan admitted to spending hours reviewing with his mobile phone every day on short videos, games and social software.
一位高三的学生抱怨，自己在家静不下心，刷了一天剧。
A senior high school student complained that he was not quiet at home, brush a day of drama.
到晚上后悔又焦虑，大哭一场。
In the evening, regret and anxiety, crying.
等到第二天起床，便更不想学了。
Wait until the next day to get up, even more do not want to learn.
大多数学生都清楚，自己在高三，必须紧张起来。
Most students know that they are in the third year of high school and must get nervous.
可在家不可避免的效率有限，一天过去，便加倍懊丧。
But the inevitable inefficiencies at home are limited, and when the day is over, we doubly regret it.
他们往往会和朋友互相打听，你是不是在家学得更认真？我们学校的录取率会不会下滑陈兴才告诉记者，昆明市教育局为全市的高三学生组织了“名师课堂”，通过直播和录播等方式播放。
Do you study harder at home? Chen Xingcai told reporters that the Kunming Education Bureau has organized classes for senior high school students to broadcast live and recorded messages.
陈兴才也知道，对于硬件条件不够的偏远地区学校来说，这是目前最好的解决方式了，但问题在于，课程面向全市学生，他的学生中有人觉得难度大，总在手机里问他，跟不上怎么办，班上一位名列前茅的女生，已经把“名师课堂”里听不懂的知识点整理到了笔记本上，密密麻麻，说要返校后找老师们挨个解决。
Chen Xingcai also knows that this is the best solution for schools in remote areas with inadequate hardware, but the problem is that some of his students find it difficult to keep up with them on their mobile phones.
在湖南省新晃县，一位准备参加书法艺考的陶姓考生说，他的学校因为没有条件，只得让他们这些艺术生和其他班级一起看视频录播。
In Xingang County, Hunan Province, a prospective calligraphy examinee said his school had to let its art students watch video cassettes with other classes because conditions were not right.
“就说数学课，我真是一个字都听不懂。
"Just for my math class, I couldn't understand a word.
”他说。
'he said.
“今年，我们学校的录取率会不会下滑？”陈兴才担忧。
"This year, our school admission rate will decline?" Chen Xingcai worried.
在他看来，当学校作用退居二线，城市里条件好的家庭，能给孩子的帮助肯定更多。
In his view, when school plays a secondary role, the city's well-off families can certainly help their children more.
中国教育科学研究院研究员储朝晖也认为，“这次疫情中，学校相对一般的学生，尤其农村的学生，受到的影响比较大。
"Relatively average school students, especially in rural areas, have been more affected by the epidemic," said reserve Chaohui, a researcher at the China Academy of Educational Sciences.
”当原本坐在一个教室的同学们被分隔在不同地方，很多东西会拉远他们的距离。
When students sitting in a classroom are separated in different places, many things lengthen their distance.
有时候，家里是否有打印机都可能成为障碍。
Sometimes the availability of a printer in the home can be a barrier.
一位四川女生只有一部手机，习题在手机里，老师解题的直播画面也在，她不得不在两者间来回切换，“换着换着就蒙了。
A Sichuan schoolgirl had only one mobile phone, problem sets were on her mobile phone, and the teacher had to switch back and forth between them.
”多一部电脑或手机能解决一些问题，但很多农村乃至县城家庭也并没有这些设备。
More computers or mobile phones can solve some problems, but many rural and even county homes don't have them.
无论如何，将题答在白纸上，再拍照提交——这是很多学校明确要求，最贴近高考答题情景的方法。
In any case, answer the questions on white paper, then take pictures to submit - this is a lot of schools expressly required, the closest to the college entrance examination situation.
还有问题接踵而至：除了试卷，课本、复习资料在身边么？放假时，很多人将它们一起放在了学校。
Then came the question: besides the examination papers, textbooks, and review materials, many people put them together at school during the holiday season.
居家备考时间中，体育生们可能是动静最大的。
At home in preparation for the exam, sports students are likely to be the most active.
短视频平台上，他们中的很多人最近成了“网红”：举重杠铃的替代品包括但不限于大桶矿泉水、木桩和空心混凝土砖。
Many of them have recently become "net red" on short video platforms: Weightlifting barbells include, but are not limited to, barrels of mineral water, stakes, and hollow concrete bricks.
一段视频中，河南某农村的一位体育特长生为锻炼体力，在家举起了生锈的三轮车轮毂。
In a video, a rural sports superintendent in Henan province raised rusty tricycle wheels for exercise.
还有人将麻绳捆在腰间，拖拽着大号轮胎，奔跑在乡间空旷的水泥路上，还有人在家练习连续弹跳，楼下最终发来信息：你家怎么了？甘肃的那位朱老师最近总接到班里体育生的电话，说不知如何备考了。
Still others tied twine around their waist, tugged tugs of large tires and ran down the empty concrete road in the countryside, while others practiced bouncing at home and finally sent a message downstairs: What's wrong with your familyThe Zhu in Gansu recently got a call from a sports student in his class saying he didn't know how to prepare for the exam.
“要不先去小区空地上练练？”过一段时间，电话再度响起。
"Want to go to the community first ground practice?" After a while, the telephone rang again.
“报告老师，我们小区连楼都不让下。
"Teacher of the report, we are not allowed to enter even the building.
”他感到头疼。
"He has a headache.
武汉的考生彭昕烨，今年将参加美术艺考，可近来大部分时间都只能围绕着一张床活动。
Wuhan candidate Peng Xinyue, this year will participate in art examination, but most of the recent time can only around a bed activities.
他被确诊为新冠肺炎，是2月6日凌晨第一批进入方舱医院的病人。
He was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, the first patient to enter the cabin hospital in the early hours of February 6.
来时匆忙，没带台灯和纸笔。
I came in a hurry without a lamp or pen.
医院给每位病人发了小箱子，他把它当凳子，趴在床上听网课。
The hospital gave each patient a small suitcase, which he used as a stool on his stomach in bed to listen to the net lessons.
学校安排体育课，他就在床上做卷腹。
The school arranged physical education classes and he curled himself up in bed.
医生护士们给了他很多写作业用的白纸。
The doctors and nurses gave him a lot of white paper for his homework.
方舱每晚11点熄灯，最外围的一圈灯光照到床上很昏暗。
The cabin was turned off at eleven every night, and the outermost circle of lights dimmed the bed.
值班的护士和保安总来问他，要不要去值班室复习，那里光线好。
The nurse and security guard on duty always came to ask him if he wanted to go to the duty room to review, where the light was good.
彭昕烨在方舱医院所作的速写改变的和不变的很多学生为高考感到焦虑，但总有一些人比其他人更焦虑。
Many students feel anxious about the College Entrance Examination, but some are more anxious than others.
艺考生是其中一部分。
Artistic candidates are part of this.
全国大多艺术类考生会在高二结束后暂时放下文化课，开启专业集训，陆续参加本省的专业统考和外省专业院校校考；如果没有意外，2020年的2-3月，所有专业考试结束，再用最后100多天突击文化课。
At the end of the second year of high school, most of the country's art examinees will temporarily drop their cultural classes, start specialized training, take part in the professional examinations of their own province and the examinations of specialized colleges in other provinces.
但现在，意外发生了。
But now, an accident has occurred.
一位武汉艺考生的母亲一股脑给孩子报上了所有能检索到的、目前还未终止艺考报名的院校。
The mother of a Wuhan arts examinee gave her child a newspaper of all the schools that could be retrieved and had not terminated the entrance examination.
但与此同时，她必须安慰孩子。
But at the same time, she must comfort her children.
她发现孩子最近很焦躁，开始有意给孩子分享“积极”的新闻——比如，“今天又有好多省来援助我们”。
She has noticed that kids have been getting restless lately, and she's started intentionally sharing "positive" news - "there's a lot of saving today to help us," she says.
孩子上的辅导班微信群也设定了规矩：一旦有人发送“不好”的消息，会被立刻踢出群。
The kids' tutorial message group also sets the rule that anyone who sends "bad" messages will be kicked out of the group immediately.
湖南那位姓陶的书法艺考生，本应在2月23日完成最后一场专业课考试。
The Hunan calligraphy examinee surnamed Tao was supposed to have completed his last professional exam on February 23.
他说，自己现在是“迷茫大于焦虑”：即使考试在3月恢复，还要每一场都参加吗？还要去报考院校周边的辅导班参加考前集训吗——对艺考生而言，这是提高专业课成绩的通常作法。
He said he was "lost rather than anxious": even if the exam resumes in March, do you want to attend every test? Do you have to go to the classes around the school to take part in pre-test training?
但再花时间，6月的文化课考试怎么办？还有一些人面临着更多未知。
But what about taking the cultural exam in June? Others face more uncertainty.
在武汉音乐学院附近的小区，一对苏州的母女滞留在此。
A mother and daughter of Suzhou stay in a small neighborhood near Wuhan Conservatory of Music.
1月17日，李女士安排女儿来此，接受艺考集训。
On January 17, Ms. Li arranged for her daughter to come here for an art examination.
3天后，女儿说，小区里有很多拖着行李箱的声音。
Three days later, she said, there was a lot of baggage trailing in the neighborhood.
大家都在撤离，她想回家。
Everybody's evacuating. She wants to go home.
李女士要坚持。
Ms. Lee wants to insist.
1月22日，处理完公司事务的她也来了。
On January 22nd, she, who had handled the company's affairs, arrived.
武汉在一天后封城。
Wuhan closed the city in a day.
接下来一段时间，母亲总觉得女儿的古筝声变得悲伤。
For some time afterward, the mother felt the sound of her daughter's guzheng becoming sad.
她自觉对不起女儿，“总要求她听我的。
She felt sorry for her daughter. "Always ask her to listen to me.
但这次，我确实错了。
But this time, I was wrong.
”这个外地艺考集训生集中租住的小区，最近的演奏声明显少了。
The vocal music has been noticeably muted recently in the small district where the outbound art collection is housed.
除了离开的，很多同样滞留的学生开始投入文化课复习。
In addition to those who left, many students who also stayed behind began to study in cultural classes.
对于李女士的女儿，如果苏州于3月初线下复课，她们离开武汉后再隔离14天，已然赶不及了。
Ms. Lee's daughter, if Suzhou in early March off-line resumption of classes, they left Wuhan after 14 days of isolation, has been unable to catch up.
对抗不确定性的办法是花钱——李女士索性给女儿请了私教，一对一视频教学，每个月3万多元。
The way to combat uncertainty is to spend money - Ms. Lee simply offers her daughter private tutoring, one-on-one video instruction, more than $30,000 a month.
但无论如何焦虑，备考都必须进行。
But no matter how anxious you are, preparing for the exam must be done.
网上最近流传一则视频，一位家中没有Wi-Fi信号的高三男生，为上在线课程，每天清晨爬到自家屋顶，接收邻居家的网络。
A video circulated online recently of a three-year-old boy who didn't have Wi-Fi at home climbed to the roof of his home every morning to receive his neighbor's network for online classes.
“屋顶男孩”说，他的目标是浙江大学。
"Rooftop Boy" said his target was Zhejiang University.
在四川旺苍，一位女生每天要走上来回1小时的山路，坐到悬崖边学习。
In Wangcang, Sichuan, a girl walks up and down a mountain road for an hour every day, sitting on a cliff and studying.
村委会有着全村唯一的Wi-Fi信号，但在疫情期间封闭了。
The village council had the only Wi-Fi signal in the village, but it was shut down during the outbreak.
崖上能收到那里的信号。
You can pick up the signal from the bluff.
一位河南的网友发了微博，称自己老家的村子里，两名高三生为了上网课，在村小院墙外搭了个棚子，专门“蹭网”。
A netizen from Henan Province posted a microblog saying that in his hometown village, two high school students had set up a shed outside the village courtyard wall for the Internet class.
小学墙外就是麦田，只在墙根有一圈土包能落脚。
Outside the primary school wall is the wheat field, only in the wall around a circle of soil can settle.
学生们把木桌、竹凳和烤火盆搬了过来。
The students brought in wooden tables, bamboo benches and fire-pots.
广东东莞一位成绩颇好的学生告诉中青报·中青网记者，对她而言，网络复习比传统课堂更高效。
A good student in Dongguan, Guangdong, told the Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net that for her, online review is more efficient than traditional classes.
在她的班级，只有数学课每周要保证4小时直播网课，语文等科目则以学案分享，布置作业，录播视频等形式穿插进行。
In her class, only math classes are guaranteed four hours of live webcasts a week, and language and other subjects are interspersed with case-sharing, homework assignments, and video.
学校给出每天每时段学习科目的建议，但并不强制。
The school gives advice on the subjects to be studied every day, but it is not compulsory.
老师们时间充裕，发过去的问题总在第一时间回复。
Teachers have plenty of time to respond to past questions in the first place.
她得以查漏补缺，补足弱势。
She was able to fill gaps and make up for weaknesses.
陈兴才说，老师们都在调整教学计划。
Chen Xingcai said the teachers were adjusting their teaching plans.
开学后，肯定要全力抢占时间，追赶复习进度。
After the beginning of school, we must seize the time to catch up with review progress.
他班里的那位女生，从昆明市某知名高中的朋友们那里要来了习题和资料，发现无论命题解题，思路都灵活得多。
The girl in his class, from a well-known high school friends in Kunming City, asked for exercises and materials, found that no matter the topic, the thinking is much more flexible.
这是意外的收获。
It was a windfall.
女孩有自己的打算。
The girl has her own plans.
春节前在学校，有时写不完作业，她每天深夜1点入睡。
She sometimes can't finish her homework at school before Spring Festival. She goes to sleep at 1 o'clock every night.
等到开学，她要睡得更晚，无论几点，“一定要完成任务。
When school starts, she sleeps later, no matter when, "Be sure to get the job done."
”在武汉，班主任最近总给彭昕烨打电话，问他今天身体如何，方舱怎么样，复习有没有落下。
In Wuhan, the head teacher recently called Mr. Peng Xinyue to ask him how he is today, how the cabin is and whether he has left his revision.
彭昕烨在学校是那种调皮捣蛋的学生，被老师安排在教室第一排。
Peng Xinyue is the kind of mischievous student at school who is arranged by his teacher in the first row of the classroom.
他说，最近被这么照顾，有点不习惯。
'It's a little strange being taken care of these days, 'he says.
他的复习并不顺利。
His review did not go well.
方舱里终归吵闹，网课容易走神。
Classes always go noisily in the cabin.
几天前，他复查了CT，肺部还有感染；核酸也还呈阳性，仍旧无法出院。
A few days earlier, he had reviewed the CT and his lungs were infected; the nucleic acid was also positive and he was still unable to leave the hospital.
但倘若不看这些指标，他的身体几乎完全康复了，“能吃能喝能跳能睡。
Without these measures, however, he would have recovered almost completely, "eating, drinking, jumping and sleeping.
”1月下旬，他的父母先发烧，等到安排他们入院时，两人都自行康复、核酸转阴了。
In late January, his parents first had a fever, and by the time they were admitted to hospital, both had recovered and their nucleic acids had turned cloudy.
彭昕烨在方舱医院所作的速写“切，他俩把我搞进来，自己倒先好了。
Peng Xinyue in the cabin hospital sketch "cut, they let me in, their own first.
”彭昕烨如今随口说起这事，像一句日常的抱怨。
Peng Xinyue now casually speaks of this matter, like a daily complaint.
在病区转了一圈，他发现自己可能是这区唯一的高考生。
After a tour of the sick area, he found that he might be the only high-level candidate in the area.
病友们路过时总爱给他打气；护士们不时来查看他学得是否认真；有时他在夜里刷手机，睡得晚了，护士直接来提醒，“赶紧睡啊，明天学不学了？”有一天，他画完一张画，然后睡着了，画就在手边。
Sometimes he brushes his cell phone at night and goes to bed late, and the nurse reminds him directly, "Go to sleep, don't study tomorrow?" One day, he finished drawing a picture, then fell asleep and the picture was on hand.
醒来时，人们围过来，举着他的画端详。
When they woke up, people gathered around and held up his picture.
有阿姨说，自己女儿前年刚艺考，能给他很多经验，一定交流下。
Auntie said that his daughter just the year before the examination, can give him a lot of experience, certain exchanges.
大家很快聊起来。
We chatted quickly.
新的一天开始了。
A new day begins.
他把画的“方舱生活”发到了微博上——两位病人在床，护士俯身照顾。
He posted a picture of "cabin life" on Weibo - two patients in bed, nurses bent over to take care of it.
画中医院的墙上被他特意写了四个字：“武汉加油。
He wrote four words on the wall of the painting Chinese hospital: "Wuhan refuels.
”中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
高考倒计时100天，这届高三学生只能“云誓师”了。
The countdown to the college entrance examination 100 days, this senior three students can only "cloud oath teacher."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "高考倒计时100天，这届高三学生只能“云誓师”了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "他们往往会和朋友互相打听，你是不是在家学得更认真？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; They often talk to friends; did you learn more seriously at home?;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
