捐出救命药的艾滋患者们。
AIDS patients who donated life-saving drugs.
张一川。
Zhang Yichuan.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
“洛匹那韦/利托那韦”——一种由疾控中心免费发放给HIV感染者的抗艾药物，商品名为“克力芝”。
Lopinavir / Ritonavir, an anti-HIV drug given free of charge by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is called Kaletra.
它作为推荐的“抗病毒治疗”药物之一，写在国家卫健委第三到第六版新冠肺炎诊疗方案中（目前，该诊疗方案更新至第六版）。
It is listed as one of the recommended "antiviral" drugs in the third to sixth editions of the NCHP's New Crown Pneumonia Program (currently updated to the 6th edition).
在过去20多天，全国各地的HIV感染者把手中闲置的“克力芝”寄给位于郑州的一名志愿者“松鼠哥”，由他把这些药物发到武汉的新冠肺炎患者手中，用于治疗。
For more than 20 days, HIV-infected people across the country have sent unused copies of the drug to a volunteer in Zhengzhou, "Brother Squirrel," for treatment in Wuhan.
2020年1月28日，他发微博称，收到了HIV感染者寄来的40余盒克力芝，还有220盒从印度订购的克力芝正在路上，预计可以救助300名新冠肺炎患者。
On January 28, 2020, he tweeted that he had received more than 40 boxes of Kaletra from people living with HIV, and 220 boxes of Kaletra, ordered from India, expected to help 300 people with pneumonia.
松鼠哥写道：“虽然两个患者群体感染的并非同一种病毒，但我们与冠状病毒感染者不仅药物相同，对他们的处境也更能感同深受，所以我们始终是乐于伸出援手的群体之一，我们迫切地希望你们都能活下来，获得彻底的治愈！”以下为“松鼠哥”的口述：募药我1月23号看到新闻，感染新型肺炎的北大一院呼吸科主任王广发宣称克力芝对他有效，1月24号、25号我就动员HIV感染者来募集药物了。
"Although the two groups were not infected with the same virus, we were one of the groups that were more likely to feel the same about their situation," wrote Squirrel. "We were one of the groups that were eager to help.
一开始，我们得知的消息是，一些抗艾药物可能对新冠有效。
At first, we learned that some anti-HIV drugs might be effective for the new crown.
当时有一些HIV感染者的群在讨论，说HIV感染者不是易感人群，上海的卢洪洲教授也说，HIV感染者的很多药物都可能对新冠有效。
A group of people living with HIV was discussing that people living with HIV were not a high-risk group, and Professor Luhong Zhou of Shanghai said many drugs for people living with HIV could be effective for the new crown.
由于当时还不明确有效药物是“克力芝”，我的第一反应是，我们的药物供应可能会出现药荒。
As it was not clear at the time that the effective drug was Kaletra, my first reaction was that there might be a shortage of drugs in our supply.
很多HIV感染者服用的是自费药，有的人也从国外买药，根据我的职业敏感度和这么多年的服药经验，我预测，如果药物有效，那么HIV感染者在短时间内，可能会拿不到药，药物也可能涨价。
Based on my professional sensitivity and years of experience with drugs, I predict that if the drugs are effective, people living with HIV may not be able to get them in a short time, and drugs may go up.
所以当时我写了一条微博提示大家这一点。
So I wrote a microblog to remind you of that.
后来新闻报道，又发现了新的抗艾药多替拉韦钠可能有效，我开玩笑说“可能是想玩死我们”。
Later news reports suggested that the new drug doxylavir might be working, and I joked, "Maybe I wanted to play with us."
因为新闻提到的多替拉韦钠这个药物，很多HIV感染者都在自费吃。
Many people living with HIV eat at their own expense because of the new drug doxylavir.
自费的药物是市场上自由流通的，不是国家按需分配，如果这个药物被证实对新冠有效，新冠病人也去买，我们就吃不到了，对我们来说就是一个很大的变动。
Out-of-pocket drugs circulate freely on the market and are not distributed by the State on the basis of need. If the drug proves effective for the new crown and the new crowns are bought, we will not be able to eat it, which would be a big change for us.
这个药出现药荒，HIV感染者群体会产生巨大的震动。
There is a shortage of this drug, the HIV-infected people will have a huge shock.
多替拉韦钠比克力芝好很多，它的耐药屏障更高，副作用更小，抗病毒效果也更强，所以很多人自费在吃。
DotiraveNabex is much better. It has a higher resistance barrier, fewer side effects and stronger antiviral effects, so many people eat at their own expense.
不过，这也意味着，一旦服用这个药物的感染者，因断药造成耐药，会引发很严重的后果——可能会出现原发耐药毒株，并且在人群中传播了，之后感染了这种毒株的人，就会直接没有药可吃，对于这些感染者和整个社会来说都是一种威胁。
But it also means that people who take the drug, who become resistant to the drug and develop resistance to it, have serious consequences - a resistant strain of the drug may develop and spread among the population, and those who subsequently become infected will have no direct access to drugs, posing a threat to those infected and to society as a whole.
克力芝能够用于治疗新冠，我觉得是好事，只要有药能治新冠，我们都很开心。
I think it's a good thing that Kaletra can be used to treat a new crown. We are all happy when there is a medicine to cure it.
但是另一方面，如果真的是多替拉韦钠这么重要的药，对我们来说确实很可怕。
But on the other hand, if it's really as important as doxylavir sodium, it's really scary for us.
后来了解到的信息是，比较明确治疗效果的只有克力芝，我们的一颗心就放下来了。
Later learned that the only clear treatment effect is Kaletra, one of our heart down.
毕竟，非吃克力芝不可的HIV感染者不多。
After all, the number of people with HIV who have to eat Kaletra is low.
它是国家免费药，副作用偏大，很多HIV感染者服用一段时间后会更换成其他自费药物。
It is a national free drug, side effects are large, many people living with HIV will take a period of time will be replaced with other self-funded drugs.
与此同时，有很多新冠患者开始找到我要克力芝，我开始思考，怎样有效地利用药物资源，把它们送到真正有需要的人手里。
At the same time, with so many new crowns beginning to find me wanting Kaletra, I began to think about how to use the drug resources effectively and get them to the people who really need them.
我们很清楚正常情况下，这个药物流通性很差。
We are well aware that under normal circumstances, this drug is not very liquid.
一直以来，它是定点定时投放给HIV感染者的处方药，只有HIV感染者到定点医院或疾控中心才能开。
It has long been a fixed-time prescription drug for HIV-infected people, only HIV-infected people to designated hospitals or CDC can be opened.
药房买不到，普通的医院也没有。
Pharmacies can't buy it, and regular hospitals don't.
这个药如果能治新型肺炎，短时间内一定是不够的，我们想要做一个补充。
If this medicine can cure the new pneumonia, it must not be enough for a short time, we want to make a supplement.
倒并不是说我们能够供应多么大的量，只是说尽自己的心力能做多少算多少。
That's not to say how much we can supply, but how much we can do with our own strength.
我没有公开募集“克力芝”，更多是是私底下一个一个联系。
I did not openly raise "Kaletra", more is a private one-way contact.
因为当时印度厂商已经涨价了，国内可能会有人倒卖这个药，我怕被人误会。
Because Indian manufacturers have already raised prices, there may be someone selling this medicine at home, I am afraid of being misunderstood.
HIV感染者更换自费药的时候，可能之前在医院开了三个月的克力芝，他们的手头会有一两盒一直闲置的药物。
People living with HIV may have had one or two boxes of unused drugs on hand after three months at the hospital to replace their self-medication.
我们动员的就是这部分人。
It is this group that we are mobilizing.
一开始，我去动员一些比较熟的感染者，只要简单沟通就行了。
At first, I went to mobilize some of the more familiar infected people, as long as the simple communication.
我说，你现在有没有克力芝，有的话，不如给我。
And I said, Do you have any Kaletra right now, if you have any, why not give it to me?
他们很快就同意了，而且还会去动员身边的人，很快我们就募集到了40多盒，HIV感染者们自己承担运费寄给我。
They quickly agreed, and will mobilize people around us, soon we collected more than 40 boxes, HIV infected people bear the freight to send to me.
图|初期40多盒HIV感染者捐助的克力芝也有一部分感染者正在服用克力芝，但已经在考虑要换成自费药，克力芝对他们来说已经不太合适了。
Kaletra, which has donated more than 40 boxes of HIV-infected people in the early days, and some of those infected, is already considering switching to self-pay medications. Calderon is no longer suitable for them.
找到他们之后，我们就建议他们，不如趁现在就换了。
When we found them, we suggested that they might as well change now.
他们就会去医院开自费药，然后把克力芝寄给我。
They would go to the hospital and prescribe their own medicine and send me Kaletra.
还有一些想捐药的人，本身正在服用克力芝，我们拒绝他们，告诉他们说：没有必要这样，你首先要保障你自己。
There are also people who want to give medicine and are taking Kaletra themselves. We reject them and tell them, There is no need to do this.
本身服用克力芝的HIV感染者很少，有闲置克力芝的就更少了，加上有很多人现在就封闭在老家，他们想要捐药也没办法。
Few people with HIV take Kaletra themselves, even fewer have Kaletra, and many are now confined to their homes, leaving them unable to donate drugs.
所以，我们已经把能接触到的资源都调用得差不多了。
As a result, we have been able to mobilize almost all the resources available.
所有捐药的人，都知道这个药可能会被用于新冠的治疗。
Anyone who donated the drug knows that it may be used in the treatment of the new crown.
他们可以不捐，私下把药物卖掉赚一点钱，或者留在身边，给家里人备用。
They can sell their drugs privately for a little money, or they can stay with their families and give them away.
但他们还是把药物捐了出来。
But they did donate the medicine.
根据当时的信息，我们估计一名新冠患者需要56粒药，我们一份给60粒。
According to the information available at the time, we estimated that a new crown patient would need 56 pills and we would give one to 60.
因为国内的克力芝一盒有120粒，从HIV感染者募集来的这批药一共发出了120人份。
Since there are 120 tablets in a box of Kaletra at home, the batch collected from HIV-infected people sent out 120 people.
一开始我给药很大方，没有问太多细节，觉得你来了，我就尽量给，还有印度药在路上，应该可以接上。
At first I was very generous with the medicine. I didn't ask many details. I thought you were coming, so I tried to give it to you.
有一家三口被感染的，求助者说家里的年轻人不要了，帮他的父母求药。
One family of three infected, suitors said the family's young people did not want to help his parents ask for medicine.
我发了三人份的药给他们，鼓励他们“一家人就是要齐齐整整”。
I gave them three doses of medicine to encourage them to "keep the family together."
一位男护士说自己也买了克力芝，暂时还没寄到，先找我求助，之后再还给我。
A male nurse said she had also bought Kaletra, which had not yet arrived, and asked me for help before returning it to me.
他和母亲都被感染了，但他只要了一人份，给母亲。
Both he and his mother were infected, but he only wanted one for his mother.
我就只给了他一人份，即使他自己买的药到了，自己吃也是应该的，我也不会收。
I gave him only one portion, and even if he had bought his own medicine, I would have taken it myself, and I wouldn't have taken it.
有个女孩，她的父母离异了，有精神障碍的母亲被隔离。
There was a girl whose parents had been divorced and her mentally handicapped mother isolated.
听到她这么说，我心里特别难受，因为我的父亲也有精神障碍，特别能理解她。
It pains me to hear her say that, for my father, too, has a mental disorder, and understands her in particular.
但我当时已经没有药了，印度药也还在等，我就把我给家人预备的药寄给了她。
But I had no medicine, and Indian medicine was still waiting, so I sent her the medicine I had prepared for my family.
我们捐赠克力芝，只是作为患者治疗的一个补充，所以一开始要求患者必须要提供医生的处方。
We donated Kaletra as a supplement to the patient's treatment, so we initially required the patient to provide a doctor's prescription.
我自己做审核的时候，就是看他们的医疗凭据，只要有医疗凭据，我都会给。
When I do my own audit, I look at their medical credentials, as long as there is a medical certificate, I will give them.
医护人员就是看工作证和工作照，确定身份了，我也会给。
The paramedics are looking at the work badges and the work photos, and I'm gonna give them.
直到我收到了一份似曾相识的检查报告。
Until I received an inspection report that seemed familiar.
这让我意识到，可能会有人拿着别人的材料发给我，之后我就要求他们都要提供身份证，要确定跟医疗凭证中是同一个人。
It made me realize that someone might send me material from someone else, and then I asked them to provide their ID cards, making sure they were the same person as the medical certificate.
另一个我一开始没有考虑到的是：克力芝对重症患者可能是无效的。
Another thing I didn't think about in the first place: Kaletra may not be effective for patients with severe illness.
有人提醒我，克力芝对轻症、中症患者的治疗效果更好，我又想办法去核实了，去看他们推荐给我的医学博士的文章。
I was reminded that Kaletra was more effective in treating patients with mild or moderate symptoms, and I tried to check it out to see what they had recommended for my MD.
好几位的文章，我都从头到尾一字不落地看完了。
I read the articles of several people from beginning to end.
所以后来我们送药的方向也有所调整，把药物尽量给轻症患者。
So later we sent the direction of medicine has also been adjusted, as far as possible to light patients with drugs.
最开始送药的时候，药物会滞留在快递站点，没人派送，一些患者因此没有及时收到药。
At the time of the first delivery, the drug was stuck at the express delivery station, and no one delivered it. Some patients did not receive it in time.
我们就想是不是可以找人帮忙派送。
We were wondering if we could get someone to deliver.
有一位朋友介绍了蜘蛛哥给我，当时我还不知道他是视频博主。
A friend introduced Spider Brother to me, and I didn't know he was a video blogger.
我把药分装好以后，装进一个大箱子里，统一寄给他。
When I had packed the medicine separately, I packed it in a large box and sent it to him in one piece.
药盒上贴着地址，同时把患者、地址和联系方式的表格单独再发给他一份，他按照信息来送。
An address was affixed to the medicine box, and a separate form of the patient, address and contact details was sent to him, who followed the information.
做这件事的时候，有一位求助者给我转了2000块钱，我收了，想着用于后面的采购。
While I was doing this, one of my suitors turned over $2, 000 to me. I took it and wanted to use it for later purchases.
我们自己的人知道后，就紧急叫停了，让我后面不要再收任何一笔钱，因为哪怕我收了一分钱，都要公示账目。
When our own people learned about it, they stopped short and told me not to take any money back, because even if I received a penny, I had to publish the accounts.
我们没有精力去计算、去公示。
We do not have the energy to calculate, to publish.
所以我们筹资范围控制在HIV感染者群体内部，稍微扩大了几个朋友相熟的朋友。
So we have limited our funding to people living with HIV and have slightly expanded our friends.
我们是为了把药弄过来，再把药送到患者手里，但还是担心有人说闲话质疑，所以我们干脆就选择效率高、风险小的方式——自己花钱。
We're trying to get the drugs and get them to the patients, but we're still worried about gossip, so we're going to choose the efficient and less risky way - to spend our own money.
虽然成本高一点，但对我们来说也没有太多经济压力。
It's a little more expensive, but there's not a lot of economic pressure on us.
钱花了不要紧，再赚嘛，毕竟是这么多条人命，肯定是人命是最重要的，钱都是次要的。
Money does not matter, then earn it, after all, so many lives, is certainly the most important human life, money is secondary.
100盒药，可以救100个人啊面向HIV感染者筹克力芝时，我们在印度也订了3批药，第一批220盒，第二批100盒，第三批108盒。
We ordered three batches of medicine in India, the first batch of 220 boxes, the second batch of 100 boxes, and the third batch of 108 boxes.
印度药是一盒60粒，这428盒就能救428个人。
The indian medicine is a box of 60 pills, 428 boxes can save 428 people.
这三批印度药，每一次订货价格都不一样，一直在涨。
These three batches of Indian medicine, each time at a different price, have been rising.
有一回我刚付了钱，印度那边就告诉我说没有货。
Once when I had just paid, the Indian side told me there was no stock.
国内的情况这么紧急，但印度那边老是让我等，说他们还在放假，不发货。
Things are so urgent at home, but India keeps me waiting, saying they're still on holiday and not shipping.
我们很着急，多个渠道去找药，因为想要的版本老是找不到，找到了还让等，后面的一些药我们就被迫订了别的厂家。
We are very anxious, many channels to find medicine, because the desired version is always not found, found and so on, some of the latter medicine we were forced to order other manufacturers.
印度药到了海关之后，好几天包裹的状态都没更新。
After the Indian medicine arrived at the customs, the condition of the parcel was not renewed for several days.
我有些着急，就打电话问海关，想问一下是不是能放行？如果需要什么材料我可以去找。
I was in a hurry, so I called customs to see if I could release it. If I needed anything, I could look for it.
我当时没有想到这个事情的难度。
I didn't think of the difficulty of the matter.
因为我们以前购买自用药物，海关是会放行的。
Because we used to buy drugs for our own use, customs will release them.
克力芝并不是强仿药，因为已经过了专利期了，任何一个厂家生产都是合法的，不存在侵权或违反WTO规定的问题。
Kaletra is not a strong imitation, because the patent period has passed, any manufacturer production is legal, there is no infringement or violation of WTO provisions.
而且又是印度的大厂家，我本来是觉得没问题的。
And it's a big manufacturer in india, And I thought it would be okay.
海关工作人员问我，能提供受捐单位的接收函吗？我说好我去找。
The customs staff asked me if I could provide a letter of acceptance from the donator. I said I would look for it.
我其实一开始觉得医院很可能不会收印度药，所以当时计划拿回来后直接赠送给患者。
I actually thought at first that the hospital would probably not take Indian medicine, so I planned to give it directly to the patient when it came back.
现在药物过不了海关，就觉得如果有医院肯接收也不错。
Now the drugs do not go through customs, I think if there is a hospital to accept it is good.
愿意接收的医院很不好找，我们从印度买的药物没有相关批文，大部分医院都不会要。
Hospitals that are willing to accept are not easy to find, and those we buy from India do not have the relevant licenses, and most hospitals do not.
最后，通过朋友的帮忙，我们联系上两家湖北乡镇一级的医院，开了一个愿意接收、请海关放行的材料，盖了章。
Finally, with the help of our friends, we contacted two hospitals at the township level in Hubei Province, opened a material willing to receive and request customs clearance, and sealed it.
找到了接收医院我们很开心，但还要去药监局开许可。
We were happy to find the hospice, but we had to go to the DA for permission.
药监局说现在这个情况确实比较特殊，需要向国家药监局反映，后来反馈给我说可能比较难办，即使能办也要等。
The agency said the situation was special and needed to be addressed to the agency, which gave me feedback that it might be difficult, even if it could be done.
我觉得，接着等也是等一个不确定的消息，不如直接抓紧时间赶紧退回去，之后再走别的办法进来。
I think it would be better to wait for an uncertain message than to hurry back and find another way to get in.
后来我就在想，如果不是提前联系了海关，可能还有一定几率不被抽检，直接放行。
Later, I was thinking that if I hadn't contacted Customs in advance, there might be some chance of not being sampled directly.
当时海关首先要放行救援物资，他们也很忙，其他包裹可能就停了几天，我一着急，反而让他们发现了这批药，就没办法放行了。
The customs first had to release the supplies, they were also very busy, the other parcels may have stopped for a few days, I worried, let them find the batch of drugs, there is no way to release.
这几天我就一直在懊悔和自责，可以选择更好的方式把药弄进来过来，不应该赌。
I've been regretting and remorseful for the last few days, and I can choose a better way to get the medicine in and not gamble.
就是因为知道这个病进展很快，急着想把这个药弄回来，没有想那么多。
Knowing that the disease was progressing rapidly, he was anxious to get the medicine back without thinking much about it.
我们一开始觉得这些药都能顺利拿到，能救助500人。
We thought at first that all these pills would work, that they would help 500 people.
但实际上我们发放的药物会浪费一部分，后面的药物又没有到。
But the fact is that some of the drugs we dispense are wasted, and that the later drugs don't arrive.
我觉得自己做出了错误的判断，觉得自己不应该那么鲁莽，其实还有很多地方可以做得更好。
I felt that I had made the wrong judgment, that I should not be so reckless, and that there was much more that could be done.
其实海关和药监局全程都很帮忙，派了专人来处理我的事情，劳心劳力，跟我反复打电话沟通了好几次。
In fact, the Customs and Drug Administration has been very helpful throughout, sent someone to deal with my affairs, hard-working, and I repeatedly called to communicate several times.
他们不停地向上级请示，也想把这批药弄过来，但是有一些事情不是他们能够决定的，不能违规违法。
They kept asking their superiors for instructions and wanted to get the pills, but there was something they could not decide and could not break the law.
我也不怪他们，也能感觉到，他们自己也觉得很抱歉。
I don't blame them, I can feel it, and they feel sorry for themselves.
300多盒印度药到海关的时候，另一批100盒从香港走的印度药也快到了。
When more than 300 boxes of Indian medicine arrived at customs, another batch of 100 boxes of Indian medicine from Hong Kong was about to arrive.
但是之前说好帮我收货的朋友已经回不去香港了，被封闭在了老家，这100盒药我们一时就不知道怎么运进来了。
But my friend, who had promised to help me with the delivery, was no longer able to go back to Hong Kong and was locked up in his hometown.
后来香港限制跨境人流，时间就更紧迫。
Hong Kong's subsequent restrictions on cross-boundary flows made time more urgent.
刚好有一个志愿者团体找到了我，问我是否需要帮助。
I was approached by a volunteer group and asked if I needed help.
这个团体是一个因为疫情成立的小组，他们也是从各地采买这些药物，或者从印度“人肉”带药回来。
The group is a group created by the outbreak, which also buys the drugs from around the world or brings them back from India with "human flesh."
他们在网络上看到送药志愿者“蜘蛛哥”的视频，找到我的时候我也很惊讶，原来这个事情居然还有人在做。
They saw a video of the drug volunteer Spider Brother on the Internet, and I was surprised to find someone else doing it.
他们因为不是HIV感染者，不懂药、没有经验、没有渠道，种种原因，走了弯路。
They are not infected with HIV, do not know medicine, no experience, no channels, for various reasons, took a detour.
好在我比较懂药，能够提供一些渠道、资源以及建议，他们则有各方面的人脉资源。
Fortunately, I know medicine, can provide some channels, resources and advice, they have a variety of contacts.
通过他们的帮助，很快就找到了香港的朋友，几个人分批帮我把这100盒药带回来。
With their help, I soon found a friend in Hong Kong. Several people helped me bring back the 100 boxes of medicine in batches.
那天是2月7号，中午香港的顺丰小哥帮我代签收，下午一点，跟香港的朋友碰头，然后就带到了内地。
It was February 7. At noon, Hong Kong's young brother Shun Fung signed for me. At 1: 00 pm, he met my friends in Hong Kong and took him to the mainland.
当时我很吃惊，我之前都觉得可能希望不大了。
I was surprised. I thought I might not have much hope.
这100盒药就可以救100个人啊。
These 100 boxes of medicine can save 100 people.
图|从香港转运回内地的100盒印度药在等印度药的时候，我会给求助者编号，等药到了，按照编号顺序发放。
When the 100 boxes of Indian medicine from Hong Kong were waiting for Indian medicine, I would give the caller a number and wait for the medicine to arrive.
那时我这排了70多个编号，后来我只发出不到50份，因为其中有20多人让出了自己在排的药。
I had more than 70 numbers on my platoon, and then I sent less than 50 because more than 20 of them gave up their platoon medicine.
“让出”这两个字是我斟酌过的。
I have weighed the words "give up."
我不希望在微博上写他们“放弃”了自己的编号。
I don't want them to "give up" their numbers on microblogs.
“让出”的人，有一些是已经治愈了，也有患者已经去世了，患者的家属就不要了。
Some of those who "give up" have been cured, others have died, and the families of the patients have given up.
其实这个行为挺令人钦佩的。
In fact, this behavior is quite admirable.
因为多拿一盒药也不嫌多，留着自己备用也是可以的，或者拿去送人，或者卖掉。
Because it is not too much to take an extra box of medicine, it is possible to keep it for yourself, or to give it away or sell it.
但是他们没有要，没有人说我就非要贪这一份药。
But they didn't want it. No one said I had to take it.
现在这个局面，我们都知道这个药意味着什么。
Now, in this situation, we all know what this medicine means.
这也是为什么，这个药多少钱我都不会卖，因为它不能够用金钱来衡量，它代表的是一份生存的希望，甚至有可能它真的就救活了一个人。
That's why I won't sell it for anything, because it can't be measured in terms of money, it represents a hope of survival, and it might even actually save a person.
他们让出这个机会的时候，我觉得很了不起，也让我很感动。
When they gave up the chance, I felt great, and I was moved.
从海关把印度药退回去后，我才想起，其实可以走个人自用的途径寄过来。
After the customs returned the Indian medicine, I realized that I could actually send it on my own.
我打算让全国各地的HIV感染者来收这些药，再把药发给我，我审核过后，再寄给新冠患者。
I'm going to get HIV patients all over the country to pick up the pills, send them to me, I check them out, and send them back to the new patients.
发出倡议30分钟不到，已经有7位HIV感染者报名，后来又有了十几个，目前还处于准备阶段。
Less than 30 minutes after the launch of the initiative, seven HIV-infected individuals have signed up, and a dozen more have been added, and are still in the preparatory stage.
本来我们要再订一批药，但是现在印度那边的药非常贵，因为已经卖得差不多了。
We were going to order another batch, but now the Indian side of the medicine is very expensive, because already sold almost.
我们也实在拿不出钱。
We really can't afford it.
我们跟印度人商量，可不可以先发给我们，我们用退回去的那批药换。
We talked with the Indians, and could we have the medicine returned in exchange for it?
他们不答应。
They did not answer.
所以现在就只能等我们的药回到印度再说。
So now we have to wait for our medicine to return to India.
只能赠送，绝对不能卖开始发药的第三天，我的微信不能用了。
Can only give away, absolutely can not sell to start the third day of medicine, my message can not be used.
后台显示，我被举报存在违规现象。
Backstage, I was reported to have a violation.
我后来想到，一些人想买克力芝找过来的人，我处理得不是很恰当。
I thought later that some people wanted to buy someone from Kaletra, and I didn't handle it properly.
不是每一个人来找我，我的态度都很好，我要承认这是我的失误，或许是因为这样惹了麻烦。
Not everyone came to me, and my attitude was good, and I'll admit it was my fault, perhaps because it caused trouble.
有一些人说我想买来备用，我说提供不了。
Some people said I wanted to buy it for backup, but I said I couldn't.
有一些人说我想买，问我卖多少钱，我直接说不卖，默认了这些想买药的人就不是患者。
Some people said I wanted to buy, asked me how much money I sold, I said not to sell, acquiesced that these would-be drug buyers are not patients.
我觉得这是我的一个失误，我应该审核一下他们是不是患者，如果是患者，我应该跟他们说，我这边不卖，都是捐助。
I think this is a mistake, I should check whether they are patients, if it is patients, I should tell them, I do not sell on my side, are donations.
微信号没了，说实话，当时有一种如释重负的感觉。
The microwaves are gone, and there was, to be honest, a sense of relief.
那时是中午，我去洗了个澡，睡了一觉，醒了之后才把新号的二维码发在微博上，让大家能找到我。
It was noon, I took a shower, slept, woke up and posted the new two-dimensional code on Weibo to let everyone find me.
我真的想休息一会。
I really want a break.
前面几天我几乎没有睡。
I hardly slept the other day.
第一次涌进了这么多的信息，对我来说是精神上的高负荷，大脑一直在运转，难以入睡。
For the first time so much information poured in, it was a mental overload for me, the brain kept going and it was hard to sleep.
即使躺着，即使我跟别人说我睡了，也睡不着。
Even if I'm lying down, I can't sleep even if I tell people I'm asleep.
这段时间我每天要打包很多快递，家里本来有差不多两三百个打包盒，印度药还没到，就已经用完了。
It was a time when I packed a lot of express mail, and there were almost two or three hundred packages in my house. I ran out of Indian medicine before it arrived.
我只能到顺丰要来一些包装袋，拿泡沫纸把药包起来以后装到袋里。
I had to go to Shun Fung and ask for some bags. I wrapped them in foam and put them in bags.
整天发包裹的情况下都没发完，到最后那一位，我下单的时候顺丰已经不接了，派到了第二天。
The day after the delivery of parcels are not finished, to the last one, I ordered when Shunfeng has not been sent to the next day.
每天要发的药，我会把求助者姓名、电话写下来。
Every day to send the medicine, I will ask the name, telephone write down the caller.
打包好了，打一个红色的勾，顺丰下单了，打一个绿色的勾，发免责声明了，再打一个蓝色的勾。
Packed up, hit a red hook, Shun Fung ordered, hit a green hook, issued a disclaimer, and then a blue hook.
这样几件事情做完，我就已经很累了。
After doing a few things like this, I am very tired.
有人问我包裹到哪了，我都没有精力回复。
I was asked where the package had gone and I had no energy to reply.
我的家人知道我正在做什么。
My family knows what I'm doing.
我把新闻发给他们了，也算是跟我妈炫耀一下吧，“我上新闻了”。
I sent them the news, showing off to my mother, "I'm on the news."
家里都知道我是HIV感染者，亲戚都知道，只不过都没有提，心照不宣。
The family knows that I am HIV infected, relatives all know, but did not mention, tacit understanding.
家人很支持我，觉得我做得很好。
My family was very supportive and I thought I was doing a good job.
他们跟我说，最好的处理方式就是赠送，只能赠送，绝对不能卖。
They told me that the best way to deal with it was to give it away, give it away and never sell it.
看到网友把我和“药神”做比较，我还是比较得意的，毕竟这是一个正面形象。
See netizens to me and "medicine god" compare, I still relatively complacent, after all this is a positive image.
不过，因为我是学电影的，加上我对药物代购的了解，我觉得电影通过主角最后牺牲自己免费发药的这种方式，来把主角捧上神坛，是有问题的。
But because I'm a movie learner and I know a lot about drug-buying, I think it's problematic for the movie to bring the hero to the altar by sacrificing his own free medicine.
首先，不是非要以这样的方式来去做，才能够提升他的人格。
First, it is not necessary to do so in order to enhance his personality.
电影也没有考虑到实际情况，患者是长期的患者，真的为了这些患者考虑，你得卖、你得盈利，你得让整个事情运转下去，才能够把它做好，否则在实际操作层面上，让资金链断了，让患者以后没有药吃了，这是说不过去的。
The film also does not take into account the fact that the patient is a long-term patient, really for the sake of these patients, you have to sell, you have to make money, you have to keep the whole thing running, you can do it well, or at the operational level, you break the chain of money and leave the patient without medicine.
虽然现在我也在免费捐药，但如果我们面对的是一个需要长期服药的疾病，我也不会免费捐。
Now I'm giving medicine for free, but if we're dealing with a disease that requires long-term medication, I'm not going to donate it for free.
因为如果你是长期吃，我就得考虑能够长期供应给病人，这种情况下盈利才能保障我有长期供应的能力。
Because if you're a long-term eater, I've got to think about being able to supply patients for the long term, which is what makes me profitable in the long run.
很多人觉得我很勇敢、我很善良，这些夸奖对我来说都不存在。
A lot of people think I am brave, I am very kind, these praise to me do not exist.
其实这件事没有像网友以为的那么可怕，没有那么大的风险，可能有一些技术难度，但不是勇气和善良的问题，只是很多人因为没有这个条件——没有资源，没有资金，所以办不到。
In fact, this matter is not as terrible as the netizens think, not so big risk, there may be some technical difficulties, but it is not a question of courage and kindness, just because many people do not have this condition - no resources, no money, so no way.
我就是有这些药，把它给出去而已，对我来说很难吗？网络舆论的风险是有的。
I have these drugs, just give it out, is it difficult for me? There is a risk of online public opinion.
可能会有人去恶意地揣测、去解读我，或者解读HIV感染者群体，这些声音甚至有可能来自于感染者群体内部。
There may be someone who maliciously conjectures, interprets me, or interprets groups of people living with HIV, perhaps even from within the infected population.
对于无端质疑我也不知道怎么应对，我对自己说，内心强大一点，有些声音不要理会它就是了。
I do not know how to deal with groundless doubts, I said to myself, a little stronger, some voices ignore it.
现在我这边药物的事情暂时放下了，只是志愿者团体的工作。
Now I'm putting the drug thing down for a while. It's just the work of a volunteer group.
等疫情过去以后，我就继续回去做HIV感染者的相关工作了。
When the epidemic is over, I will go back to work with people living with HIV.
2月1号，我收到第一位用药的反馈信息，告诉我服用之后正在好转。
On February 1, I received feedback from the first user that I was getting better after taking it.
其实后来收到的反馈不算太多。
In fact, the feedback received has been modest.
一方面可能很多患者比较忙，没有时间反馈；另一方面，可能有一部分重症患者真的吃了没用，又或是不太确定是不是这个药物起了作用，也有患者收到药还没吃，就已经退烧了。
On the one hand, many patients may be busy and do not have time to respond; on the other hand, there may be some seriously ill patients who have not taken the drug, or who are not sure whether the drug has worked, or patients who have not received the medicine, have given up the fever.
好在没有让人担心的反馈。
Fortunately, there was no feedback to worry about.
我能想到的最坏的结果，就是患者吃药之后，还是去世了，最后家属把责任归到我身上。
The worst thing I could think of was that after the patient took the medicine, he died, and finally the family put the blame on me.
如果真出现了这个状况，我不确定自己要不要负责任。
If that happens, I'm not sure I'm responsible.
我们赠送药物的行为本身是合法的。
The very act of giving medicine is legal.
我在做HIV感染者的借药平台之前，已经查过合法性问题。
I checked for legality before I became a borrowing platform for people living with HIV.
我看到的法律条文说，企业向个人赠送药物是不合法的，但是没有看到个人向个人赠送药物是不合法的。
The law I read says that it is illegal for a business to give medicine to an individual, but it is not legal not to see an individual giving medicine to an individual.
后来经过多方了解，医院可能不能接收药物捐赠，医生也没有权力直接把药给患者，所以如果要帮助新冠患者，我们认为只有现在这条路能走。
After much understanding, hospitals may not be able to receive drug donations, and doctors do not have the authority to give drugs directly to patients, so if we want to help new crown patients, we think that is the only way to go.
为了规避可能的风险，我会让求助者签署免责声明，写明这是处于紧急的、迫切的需求下的人道救助，是患者的自愿行为，如果出现了什么情况，由患者自担自负。
To avoid possible risks, I ask the caller to sign a disclaimer stating that it is an emergency, urgent need for humanitarian relief, that it is a voluntary act of the patient, and that if anything happens, the patient bears the burden.
相应地，我会保证我们提供的药物是真的，没有一瓶是假药。
Correspondingly, I will make sure that the medicine we provide is real and that no bottle is fake.
我自己服用抗艾药8年，做借药平台也两年多了，这个我能够保证。
I have taken anti-AIDS drugs myself for eight years and have been a borrowing platform for more than two years, which I can guarantee.
2月份后，慢慢地有一些有医学背景的大V，写文章说这个药物是有效的。
After February, there were slowly large V's with a medical background who wrote that the drug was effective.
包括泰国的治疗方案里面，克力芝是一个很重要的药物。
Kaletra is an important drug within the treatment regimen that includes Thailand.
这些信息都让我慢慢明确，我们做的这个事情是值得的，没有白白地冒风险，我们赌这一把也算是赌对了。
All this information made it clear to me that what we were doing was worth it, that we were not risking it for nothing, and that we were betting on it.
后来，有一天我正在审核求助者信息，给他们编号，HIV患者群本来每天都在聊新冠和抗艾药物的事，突然有人说，李兰娟院士表示克力芝对新冠没有什么效果。
Then, one day, I was checking the donor information, gave them number, HIV patients were talking about new crowns and anti-AIDS drugs every day, suddenly someone said Academician Li Lanjuan said Kaletra had no effect on the new crown.
我就在网上搜了搜评论和相关资料，发了一条微博。
I searched the online reviews and related materials, issued a micro-blog.
其实对我来说，这个表态并没有什么太大的影响。
In fact, for me, this statement did not have much impact.
我们是按照国家的指南来的，它什么时候剔除了克力芝，我们就什么时候终止活动。
We come in accordance with the guidelines of the state, and when it removes Kaletra, we terminate our activities.
当时我判断这个事可以继续做，但我还是得发一条微博，如果我不发，很多人都会发私信给我，说这个药没有用，你的活动终止吧之类的。
At the time, I decided that I could go ahead, but I still had to send a microblog, and if I didn't, many people would send me personal letters saying it wasn't working, that your activities were over or something.
疫情下的HIV感染者疫情之前，借药的人不是很多，一个月大概三四个，少的时候就两三个。
Before the epidemic of HIV-infected people, the number of people to borrow drugs is not many, about three or four a month, when the small on two or three.
但那几天突然有20多人找到我，后面几天，陆陆续续找来借HIV免费药的人没有停过。
But those days suddenly more than 20 people came to me, the next few days, a man to borrow HIV free drugs did not stop.
疫情造成一些城市封锁的初期，光处理HIV感染者借药的事，我就已经忙到没时间睡觉了，开始给新冠患者送药后就更很难了。
In the early days of some urban blockades, I was too busy dealing with HIV-infected drugs to get to bed, and it was even harder to start delivering drugs to new crowns.
如果是因为封城导致拿不到药，那些地方基本上我的药也发不过去。
If it was because of the blockade that I couldn't get the medicine, it was basically impossible for me to get it.
我把他们拉到一个群里，想着是不是可以相互之间借用、分配一下。
I dragged them into a group and wondered if I could borrow and divide them among myself.
但实际情况是所有进这个群的人都缺药，大家都很无助，迫不得已就只能停药。
But the truth is that all the people in this group are short of medicines, and everyone is helpless and has to stop taking them.
我也只能在微博里面写一篇文章，告诉他们怎么样科学地停药。
I could only write an article on microblogging telling them how to stop using drugs scientifically.
后来，我找到机会把剩下的药全部打包发到武汉去，在群里和他们说，你们武汉内部看能不能自己想办法解决取药的问题，因为我实在没有精力继续照顾了。
Later, I found a chance to pack all the remaining medicine to Wuhan, and told them in the group, you Wuhan can see if you can find a solution to the problem of medicine, because I really do not have the energy to continue to take care of.
有一位HIV感染者朋友说，他的朋友可以帮忙。
A friend of a person living with HIV said his friend could help.
我一看，这是我的克力芝受助人。
I see. This is my Kaletrich recipient.
之前他找到我，说他有一位朋友的家属感染了，想向我求助克力芝。
He had come to me and said he had a friend's family infected and wanted to ask me for help with Kaletra.
按流程审核通过后，药也发给他了。
After the procedure had passed, the medicine was given to him.
他不是HIV感染者，但通过朋友转达说愿意帮忙散发药物，我就发给他了。
He wasn't infected with HIV, but I sent it to a friend who offered to help distribute the drug.
蜘蛛哥也一样，他们都不是HIV感染者，但在疫情面前，HIV感染者也好，非感染者也好，我们之间没有隔阂，我们在做一样的事情。
Spider Brother, they are not HIV infected, but in the face of the epidemic, HIV infected people, non-infected people, we do not estrangement, we are doing the same thing.
图 | 2月2日，松鼠哥把抗艾药物打包发往武汉。
On February 2, Squirrel packed and sent anti-HIV drugs to Wuhan.
但我没有考虑到，他住在汉口，是新冠的重灾区，有些人因此不敢去拿药。
But I didn't take into account that he lived in Hankou, a major disaster area in the New Crown, and some people were afraid to get medicine.
其实武汉有很多人并不是拿不到药，是不敢去传染病医院领取，所以我才找了个人。
In fact, Wuhan is not a lot of people do not get medicine, is afraid to go to the hospital to pick up infectious diseases, so I found a person.
他们还是不敢去汉口。
They still dared not go to Hankou.
最后，我让他把药发给了武汉同志中心，之后还有来找我借药的，我就都转给武汉同志中心了。
Finally, I asked him to send the medicine to the Wuhan Comrade Center, and then came to me to borrow the medicine, I transferred to the Wuhan Comrade Center.
国家疾控中心其实也出台了应对策略，HIV感染者可以联系当地疾控中心去领药。
The CDC also has a strategy in place that allows people living with HIV to contact local CDC for treatment.
这个应对策略比较及时，但现实层面，去领药的路上，有时道路不通，有些地方疾控没有上班，联系不到，还有些HIV感染者不愿意求助于地方疾控，担心会被老家的人知道。
The response is timely, but at the practical level, access to medicines is sometimes blocked by roads, there are places where disease is not reported to work and cannot be reached, and there are people living with HIV who are reluctant to turn to local disease control for fear of being known to their families.
我在微博上会批评他们，这种时候已经是保命要紧了，很多时候要自私一点机灵一点，不要太在乎其他。
I will criticize them on microblog, this is the time to save lives, many times to be selfish a little bit smart, do not care too much about other.
如果是我，我肯定要拿到药的，会想尽各种办法，就是要让自己吃到药，让自己活下去。
If it were me, I would certainly get the medicine, and I would do everything in my power to keep myself alive by giving myself medicine.
在这个时候还考虑什么隐私呢？相似的迷茫我一直在做HIV感染者的志愿工作，接触过很多新发的HIV感染者，我很清楚他们心路历程。
What privacy is there to consider at this timeI've been volunteering for people living with HIV, I've been exposed to a lot of new HIV infections, and I know exactly how they're going.
他们在感染之初会把这个疾病想象成一个绝症，会把自己的情况想象得严重很多。
They visualize the disease as a terminal illness at the onset of infection, and imagine themselves to be much worse off.
这会让他们做出很多错误的判断，让他们错过很多正确的求助机会或自救机会。
This will allow them to make many wrong judgments and miss out on many good opportunities for help or self-help.
其实对于现在的新冠感染者也是一样。
In fact, the new crown infection is the same.
相比而言，我觉得新冠患者比我们感染时要糟糕得多，因为他们面对的是一个未知的疾病。
In contrast, I think new crown sufferers are much worse off than we are because they are dealing with an unknown disease.
我们都想帮助他们，但也无从下手，他们一定也非常无助、非常恐惧，甚至可能会非常愤怒。
We all wanted to help them, but there was nothing we could do. They must have been very helpless, very scared, even very angry.
他们害怕传染给别人，自我封闭、自我隔离，同时又要向外求助。
They are afraid to infect others, shut themselves up, isolate themselves, and turn to the outside world for help.
我们这些艾滋病患者愿意帮助他们，患者跟患者之间一定是有共情的。
We AIDS patients are willing to help them, patients and patients must be empathy.
我曾说，希望能借这个活动，抵消一部分人对HIV感染者们的敌意和偏见，但这并不是我们做这件事情的初衷。
I said I wanted to use it to counteract the hostility and prejudice some people have towards people living with HIV, but that's not what we wanted to do.
我们的初衷是为了救人，并不是为了给我们的群体谋求什么。
We were meant to save people, not to seek something for our community.
如果能够起到一点点效果也好，如果没有，我们也不强求。
If it works a little bit, if not, we don't.
所谓偏见，就是很多人会误认为HIV感染者都长得一个样子，都是青面獠牙的。
Prejudice is that many people will mistakenly assume that people living with HIV look the same, are hyena.
但是实际上我们也是有血有肉、活生生的人。
But in reality we are flesh and blood, living beings.
我们有感情，我们也想要帮助别人。
We have feelings and we want to help others.
我们不指望能消除歧视，只是觉得能让大家看到，HIV感染者中，有我们这样一群热血善良的人存在，就可以了。
We do not expect to eliminate discrimination, just think that people can see that HIV infected people, we have a group of warm-blooded people, it is enough.
我的事情，以后可能也不会有人记得了。
Maybe no one will remember what happened to me.
我希望它被忘记呀，它为什么需要被提起来？我还是想要轻松的生活呀，希望这个事情过去以后，就回归到平常的状态，还做我原来的事，还是给HIV感染者借药就完了。
I wish it were forgotten, why does it need to be lifted up? I still want to live a relaxed life, hope that when this thing is over, I will return to my normal state, do what I did, or borrow drugs for people living with HIV.
我特别怕天天微博上总有人给我评论说你好伟大，你好了不起，是英雄什么的。
I'm especially afraid that someone on my microblog will always comment on how great you are, how great you are, what a hero.
只是刚好我有这些资源而已，不代表我做了什么了不得的事情和多大的牺牲。
It's just that I have the resources, not what I did and how much I sacrificed.
图 | 松鼠哥与“克力芝”我现在很想去武汉。
Brother Squirrel and Calderon. I'd like to go to Wuhan now.
我的脑海里一直出现武汉的画面，之前多次去武汉的画面。
I have been in my mind all the time Wuhan screen, before many times to Wuhan screen.
以前的武汉是很热闹的，我很喜欢的一个地方。
Wuhan used to be very busy, I like a place very much.
疫情结束，我就一定要去。
When the epidemic is over, I must go.
也有朋友在武汉，我很想去拥抱他们，他们虽然现在隔离在家，但从头到尾他们都不是一个人在战斗。
There are also friends in Wuhan, I would like to embrace them, although they are now isolated at home, but they are not alone in the fight.
*2月19日，松鼠哥更新了微博，网友捐赠的100瓶60粒版的克力芝寄到了他的手上。
:: On February 19, Squirrel updated his microblog, sending 100 60-tablet Kaletra Cheese to his hand.
这代表着，他将向150名新冠患者提供这个国家卫健委推荐的抗病毒治疗药物。
That means he will provide 150 new patients with the antiviral drugs recommended by the National Board of Health.
口述 | 松鼠哥撰文| 张一川编辑 | 温丽虹。
Oral & # 124; Squirrel & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 124; & #
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
捐出救命药的艾滋患者们。
AIDS patients who donated life-saving drugs.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "捐出救命药的艾滋患者们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; AIDS patients who donated life-saving drugs;;
var msg_desc = "这个时候，还考虑什么隐私呢？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
