三省五个监狱系统现确诊病例，10多名官员遭处理_疫情。
There are now confirmed cases in five prison systems in three provinces and more than 10 officers have been treated with _ the outbreak.
//  加载监控代码。
/ / Load the monitoring code.
//解決IE8,IE9不支持console的问题。
/ / Resolution 8, IE9 does not support console.
搜狐首页。
Sohu Home Page
新闻。
Public information.
体育。
Sport.
汽车。
Automobiles.
房产。
Real estate.
旅游。
Tourism.
教育。
Education.
时尚。
Fashion.
科技。
Technology.
财经。
Finance.
娱乐。
Recreation.
更多。
More than that.
母婴。
Mother and child.
健康。
Health.
历史。
History.
军事。
Military.
美食。
Gourmet food.
文化。
Culture.
星座。
Constellation.
专题。
Topics.
游戏。
Play games.
搞笑。
It's funny.
动漫。
Animation.
宠物。
Pets.
登录。
Login.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
由内容质量、互动评论、分享传播等多维度分值决定，勋章级别越高(。
By content quality, interactive comments, sharing communication and other multi-dimensional points decided, the higher the medal level (.
)，代表其在平台内的综合表现越好。
), the better their overall performance within the platform.
。
.
5384文章。
Article 5384.
27亿总阅读。
2.7 billion readings.
查看TA的文章>。
View TA's article and gt;.
分享到。
Share it.
微信“扫一扫”分享到朋友圈。
Micromail "sweeps" and shares it with friends.
三省五个监狱系统现确诊病例，10多名官员遭处理。
Five prison systems in the three governorates have now confirmed cases and more than 10 officials have been treated.
来源:中国新闻周刊。
Source: China News Weekly.
原标题：三省五个监狱系统现确诊病例，10多名官员遭处理。
Original title: There are now confirmed cases in five prison systems in the three governorates and more than 10 officials have been treated.
新冠病毒来袭，有人曾调侃监狱比较封闭，是最安全的地方。
The new crown virus attacks, some people have ridiculed that the prison is more closed, is the safest place.
但现实情况并非如此。
But that is not the case.
。
.
2月21日下午，国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会，司法部监狱管理局负责人何平介绍称，截至2月20日24时，全国有湖北、浙江、山东五个监狱发生了罪犯感染疫情。
As of 2400 hours on February 20, five prisons across China -- Hubei, Zhejiang and Shandong -- had contracted the epidemic, said He Ping, head of the prison administration at the Ministry of Justice.
。
.
其中湖北武汉女子监狱确诊230例，湖北汉津监狱确诊41例、疑似9例。
Among them, 230 cases were diagnosed in Wuhan Women's Prison in Hubei Province and 41 cases and 9 suspected cases were diagnosed in Hubei Hanjin Prison.
湖北省未成年人管教所疑似一例。
Suspected case of juvenile correctional facility in Hubei province.
山东任城监狱确诊200例，疑似10例。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 200 cases, suspected 10 cases.
浙江省十里丰监狱确诊34例。
Thirty-four cases were diagnosed in Shiulifeng Prison Zhejiang Province.
三省通报确诊病例累计超过500例。
A cumulative total of more than 500 confirmed cases were reported in the three governorates.
。
.
中国新闻周刊注意到，根据通报，目前这五个监狱没有重症病例，也未有监狱在押罪犯感染新冠肺炎死亡病例，均为输入型病例。
China News Weekly noted that, according to the circular, there are no serious cases at present in these five prisons, and no cases of death from Newcastle Pneumonia among prisoners in prison are imported cases.
。
.
外部输入致感染。
External inputs cause infection.
监狱系统为何出现确诊病例？随着各地官方通报，更多的细节也为大众所知悉。
Why are there confirmed cases in the prison system? More details are known as the authorities around the world report them.
。
.
任城监狱坐落于鲁西南的济宁市，1999年筹建2003年正式成立，有着20多年的历史。
Ren Cheng prison is located in the southwest of Jinning City, set up in 1999 and formally established in 2003, has a history of more than 20 years.
曾获得过山东省监管改造工作先进单位，山东省司法行政系统先进基层单位等荣誉称号。
Has been the Shandong Province supervision and reconstruction work advanced units, Shandong Province judicial administration system advanced basic level units and other honorary titles.
。
.
据山东省政府新闻办新闻发布会上介绍，任城监狱的疫情最早是2月初，个别管教人员出现咳嗽症状。
According to the Shandong Provincial Government Information Office press conference, the earliest Yancheng prison outbreak is the beginning of February, individual correctional officers cough symptoms.
十多天后该监狱一封闭值班干警因咳嗽到医院就诊被隔离收治，第二天被确诊。
After more than 10 days, a closed duty dry-duty police officer in the prison was hospitalized for coughing and was diagnosed the following day.
同时该监狱一封闭备勤干警也被确诊。
At the same time, a closed reserve police station was confirmed.
。
.
与最初管教人员出现咳嗽症状不同，十里丰监狱疫情源于一位民警的刻意隐瞒。
Unlike the initial officers cough symptoms, the ten-mile Feng prison outbreak originated from the deliberate concealment of a civilian police.
。
.
据浙江方面介绍，十里丰监狱一民警1月14日至19日曾去过武汉，但刻意隐瞒继续上班，至1月25日深夜被发现，四天后被确诊为新冠肺炎。
According to Zhejiang, a civilian police officer from ShiLi Fengfeng prison had been to Wuhan from January 14 to 19, but deliberately kept secret from going to work, until January 25 was found late on January 25, four days after the diagnosis of pneumonia.
。
.
第二天浙江方面公布了该病例，虽然及时做了消杀隔离等防控工作，但民警上班时间长，密切接触者多，造成了多名罪犯感染。
Zhejiang announced the next day this case, although the timely elimination of isolation and other prevention and control work, but the civilian police work long hours, close contacts, resulting in a number of criminals infected.
。
.
据《湖北日报》报道，武汉女子监狱确诊230例，汉津监狱确诊41例。
According to Hubei Daily, 230 cases were diagnosed in Wuhan Women's Prison and 41 cases in Hanjin Prison.
。
.
武汉女子监狱疫情发现过程媒体未有提及，不过汉津监狱一名干警因未如实报告生活轨迹，被给予党内严重警告处分。
Wuhan women's prison outbreak detection process was not mentioned in the media, but a Hanjin prison police officer for not reporting the true track of life, was given a severe warning within the party.
。
.
展开全文。
Unfold the full text.
司法部监狱管理局负责人何平表示，以上均为输入型病例。
The head of the prison administration of the Ministry of Justice, He Ping, said these are imported cases.
。
.
一位不愿具名的疾控专家向中国新闻周刊表示，从目前的情况看，新冠肺炎的传染性很强。
A disease expert, who declined to be named, told China News Weekly that the new crown pneumonia is highly contagious.
监狱也有两面性，说安全是因为与外界相对隔离，说不安全，是有可能接触传染源，在封闭的环境里，更容易出现大面积感染，要辩证地看。
Prisons also have two sides, stating that security is due to relative isolation from the outside world, that insecurity is a potential source of infection and that, in closed environments, large-scale infections are more likely to occur, which needs to be seen dialectically.
。
.
他认为阻止新冠病毒在监狱流行，阻止传染源是关键。
He says stopping the new crown virus from spreading in prisons is key.
接触监狱的外来人员的健康状况要清楚，包括管理人员。
The state of health of outsiders who come into contact with prisons should be clear, including managers.
另外，环境卫生也很重要。
Sanitation is also important.
。
.
10多名官员被免。
More than 10 officials were excused.
各省通报监狱疫情的同时，也通报了相关责任人被免职或受到处分的情况。
The provincial reports on prison outbreaks are accompanied by information on the dismissal or punishment of those responsible.
。
.
以任城监狱为例，因疫情防控不力，山东省委常委会会议研究决定对山东省司法厅党委书记、厅长，省监狱管理局党委书记、第一政委解维俊，省监狱管理局党委副书记、政委姜运华，省监狱管理局党委委员、副局长王文杰，任城监狱党委书记、监狱长刘葆善，任城监狱党委副书记、政委刘勇刚，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长陈为宁，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长(试用期)邓体贺，任城监狱党委委员、副监狱长(试用期)房德峰等8人予以免职。
As an example, Ren Cheng prison, due to the poor prevention and control of the epidemic, Shandong Provincial Standing Committee meeting decided to Shandong Provincial Department of Justice Party Secretary, Secretary of the Provincial Prison Administration, Political Commissar Jianwenjie, Provincial Prison Administration Party Committee Secretary, Deputy Prison Commissioner Liu Baoshan, Ren Cheng Prison Party committee member, deputy prison director (probation period) Deng Tian-hee, Ren Cheng prison committee members, deputy prison director (probation) Fang Defeng and other eight people were dismissed.
。
.
值得注意的是，经中共中央批准，近日中央政法委组成调查组，赴山东省就任城监狱新冠肺炎疫情有关情况进行全面调查。
It is noteworthy that, with the approval of the CPC Central Committee, the CPPCC recently formed an investigation team to Shandong Province to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the situation of the new crown pneumonia outbreak in Shandong Province.
。
.
不止于此，湖北省武汉女子监狱长也疫情防控不力被免职。
More than this, Wuhan female prison director in Hubei Province also ineffective control of the disease was dismissed.
。
.
湖北汉津监狱一名干警，因未如实报告生活轨迹，被给予党内严重警告处分。
A police officer at Hubei Hanjin Prison was given a severe warning by the party for failing to report the true trajectory of his life.
浙江省十里丰监狱长和政委也疫情被免职。
Zhejiang Ten Lifeng prison director and political commissar were also dismissed from the epidemic.
公安机关对涉事干警，以涉嫌妨碍传染病防治犯罪立案调查。
The public security organs should file a case of suspected obstruction to the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
。
.
根据上述通报，全国共有11人被免职，1人被党内严重警告处分，1人被立案调查。
According to the above-mentioned circular, 11 persons were dismissed, one was severely reprimanded by the party and one was placed on file for investigation.
。
.
制度反腐专家、中国纪检监察学院原副院长李永忠向中国新闻周刊表示，监狱发生大规模疫情看起来匪夷所思，细想之下也可以解释。
Li Yongzhong, an institutional anti-corruption expert and former vice-president of China's Academy of Discipline Inspection and Supervision, told China News Weekly.
。
.
“从客观的生活环境上看，可能存在通风不好潮湿的情况。
"From the objective living environment, there may be poor ventilation wet situation.
从监狱自身看，其有封闭性，如果管理的好排查到位，可以说是非常安全，反之疫情也可能蔓延开来。
From the prison itself, it is closed, if the management of good checks in place, can be said to be very safe, otherwise the epidemic may spread.
”。
"
目前，山东、浙江和湖北三省都纷纷采取了各种措施。
At present, Shandong, Zhejiang and Hubei provinces have taken various measures.
。
.
山东方面同时派出15个专项检查组和9个督察组，分赴全省其他押犯监狱及看守所、拘留所、戒毒所、强制医疗所开展拉网式排查。
Shandong dispatched 15 special inspection teams and 9 inspection teams to conduct net-pulling checks in other prisons and detention centers, detention centers, drug rehabilitation centers and compulsory medical centers throughout the province.
。
.
浙江方面在当地党委、政府统一领导下，全面彻底排查，对疑似病例及其密切接触者一律隔离观察，对确诊患者一律送诊治疗，确保全部得到及时救治。
Under the unified leadership of the local Party committee and the government, Zhejiang will make a thorough investigation of suspected cases and their close contacts.
。
.
湖北在两所监狱新冠疫情发生后，司法部、省司法厅、省监狱局已派工作组对监狱疫情防控工作进行督导。
After the outbreak of the new crown in two prisons in Hubei Province, the Ministry of Justice, Provincial Justice Department and Provincial Prison Bureau have sent teams to supervise the prevention and control of the epidemic.
。
.
湖北省监狱局将对监狱实施更加严格的全封闭管理，坚决堵住漏洞，防止疫情扩散蔓延。
The Hubei Provincial Prison Bureau will implement more strict and closed management of prisons, resolutely plug loopholes to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
司法部也先后派出28个督导组，由厅局领导带队，赴各地监狱系统开展督查。
The Ministry of Justice has also dispatched 28 supervisory groups, led by departments and offices, to supervise the prison system in various places.
返回搜狐，查看更多 。
Go back to Sohu and see more.
责任编辑：。
Responsible Editor:.
$('#tipInfo').text('已实名回应');。
$(& apos; # tipInfo & apos;). text (& apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
声明：该文观点仅代表作者本人，搜狐号系信息发布平台，搜狐仅提供信息存储空间服务。
Statement: This article only represents the author, Sohu is the information dissemination platform, Sohu only provides information storage space services.
。
.
监狱。
Prisons.
任城。
Ren Cheng.
汉津。
Han Jin.
疫情。
The outbreak.
省监狱管理局。
Provincial Prison Administration.
阅读 (1156)。
Read (1156).
我来说两句0人参与，0条评论。
Let me say two words about 0 people and zero comments.
来说两句吧……。
Say a word or two.
快速登录：。
Quick login:.
登录并发表。
Log in and publish.
评论不能为空！。
Comments cannot be empty.
搜狐“我来说两句” 用户公约。
Sohu "Let me talk about" user convention.
该评论已关闭！。
The review has been closed.
选择举报类型。
Select the type of report.
营销广告。
Marketing advertising.
淫秽色情。
Pornography.
恶意攻击谩骂。
Malicious attacks and insults.
其他。
Other.
提交。
Submitted.
取消。
Cancelled.
实名认证。
Authentication of real names.
小狐提醒您：。
Little fox reminds you:
应国家法律要求，使用互联网服务需完成实名验证。
Access to Internet services is subject to real-name verification, as required by national law.
为保障您账号的正常使用，请尽快完成手机验证，感谢您的理解和支持！。
To ensure the normal use of your account, please complete the mobile phone verification as soon as possible, thank you for your understanding and support.
确定。
Definitely.
推荐阅读。
Recommended reading.
推荐。
Recommendation.
裸贷。
Naked loans.
校园霸凌。
School bullying.
结婚。
Marriage.
枪击案。
The shooting.
拉斯维加斯。
Las Vegas.
手机。
Cell phones.
房地产。
Real estate.
武侠。
Martial Arts.
金庸。
Jin Yong.
恐怖袭击。
Terrorist attacks.
留学签证。
Student visa.
小说。
The novel.
刷新中..。
Update in..
您有未读新闻，点击查看。
You have unread news, click View.
荷兰监狱女看守性饥渴和囚犯有染，一月发生三宗。
Female prison guards in the Netherlands have sex with prisoners, with three cases occurring in January.
东少爷。
Master Dong.
一夜新增207例确诊，被病毒入侵的监狱，旁边煤田被矿业巨头接管。
A total of 207 new cases were diagnosed overnight, and the nearby coal field was taken over by the mining giant.
电商在线。
Electronic Commerce Online.
20日青岛无新增，山东发布任城监狱疫情细节，8名司法系统官员被免。
Qingdao 20 no new, Shandong issued Ren Cheng prison epidemic details, eight judicial system officials were relieved.
凤凰网青岛。
Phoenix net Qingdao.
噩耗！江苏苏州一救援队队员运输途中遭遇车祸不幸逝世。
A member of a rescue team in Suzhou, Jiangsu, died in a car accident.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
被判终身“无期徒刑”的犯人，每天在监狱里做什么？说出来你可能不信！。
What does a life-long "life sentence" prisoner do in prison every day? You may not believe it!
幺猫儿姐。
Little Cat Sister.
山东任城监狱确诊207例新冠肺炎，当地通报感染细节。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases of New Crown Pneumonia, local notification infection details.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
湖北唯一没封城的城市也告急了，新确诊病例成倍增长。
The only city in Hubei that has not been closed is also in crisis, with newly confirmed cases multiplying.
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
11名官员被免职！详解为何三省监狱一日内确诊病例逾500人？。
11 officers dismissed! Why are there more than 500 confirmed cases in three provincial prisons in one day?
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
湖北监狱系统罪犯确诊323人 近日新增确诊患者两位数。
Hubei prison system confirmed 323 people recently confirmed a new double-digit patients.
新京报。
Beijing News.
小太阳趁机给小伙饮料做手脚，听到小伙酒后吐真言，心碎了！。
The little sun took advantage of the opportunity to cheat on the drinks, heard the boys drink the truth, heartbreak!
快乐大家庭。
Happy big family.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
中央应对疫情工作领导小组视频听取湖北前方汇报，李克强提出5点要求。
The Central Leading Group on the Response to the Epidemic was briefed on the situation in Hubei Province.
第一财经。
First Finance.
湖北以外30个省（区、市）24日新增确诊病例9例。
There were 9 newly confirmed cases in 30 provinces (districts and cities) outside Hubei province on the 24th.
证券时报网。
Securities Times Web.
邵阳的“陈琳琳”，省长记住了你的名字，想不到你是这么优秀！。
Shaoyang's "Chen Linlin," the governor remembered your name, unexpected you are so excellent!
发现邵阳。
Find Shaoyang.
产自湖北的8大女星！最后一位：麻烦别说我是湖北人！。
From Hubei 8 big female star! Last: Please don't say I am Hubei people!
今昔娱乐。
Entertainment now and then.
济宁！山东！全国！最新通报汇总！济宁新增2例确诊！3例疑似！。
Jining! Shandong! The country! The latest notice summary! Jinning new 2 cases diagnosed! 3 cases suspected!
济宁新闻综合频道。
Jining News Integrated Channel.
湖北一女子晒丈夫派出所分发物资！官方两度发布回应：将深入调查。
Hubei a woman drying husband police station to distribute materials! Officials issued two responses: will be in-depth investigation.
健康宝宝。
Healthy baby.
山东台儿庄130吨医疗和生活物资驰援湖北。
Shandong Taierzhuang 130 tons of medical and living materials to help Hubei.
经济日报。
Economic Daily.
陈一新督导湖北监狱系统打好疫情防控阻击战。
Chen Xin supervised Hubei prison system played a good disease prevention and control fight.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
南京市“温暖10条”悉心呵护援助湖北医护人员家庭。
Nanking City "warm 10" meticulous care and assistance to Hubei medical staff families.
新华网。
Xinhua Net.
一个县城的中医药抗疫实践。
An anti-epidemic practice of TCM in a county town.
新华社。
Xinhua News Agency.
一家7口全部中招！明知一起聚餐的亲戚确诊，却不当回事！。
All seven members of a family move! Knowingly that the relatives of a dinner diagnosis, but do not take seriously!
观禾博艺。
Guanhe Arts.
吐血整理！全国各省援助湖北的医务人员数量大全！。
Spit up blood! All provinces in China to help Hubei the number of medical personnel.
许伟明老师。
Mr Hui Wai-ming.
任城监狱一天确诊200人，一周前还自夸硬核请战取得阶段性胜利。
Ren Cheng prison diagnosed 200 people a day, a week ago boasted of a hard core battle for staged victory.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
浙江狱警隐瞒武汉探亲，回来上班致34人感染，涉事监狱全员检测。
Zhejiang prison guards concealed Wuhan family visit, back to work caused 34 people infected, involving prison staff testing.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
湖北监狱系统罪犯确诊病例增至323人，超20名相关人员获处分。
The number of confirmed cases of criminals in Hubei prison system increased to 323, and more than 20 related personnel were disciplined.
新京报官微。
The new Beijing News.
战“疫”一线日记丨山东援助湖北医疗队队员陈金玲：曙光在前，期待春暖疫散。
Chen Jinling, a member of Hubei Medical Team, is watching for the end of the epidemic before dawn.
闪电新闻。
Lightning News.
战“疫”Vlog：新疆医疗队医生在武汉工作的一天。
Plague Vlog: A day when doctors from Xinjiang Medical Team work in Wuhan.
央广网。
CCBA.
湖北交通广播携手爱心企业捐赠物资，援助一线医护人员 1000盘防疫药物火速送往武汉市第...。
Hubei traffic radio donated materials, assisted the first-line medical personnel 1000 doses of anti-epidemic drugs rushed to Wuhan City...
楚天交通广播。
Chu Tian traffic broadcasting.
中央指导组批评：前段时间湖北指挥系统依然不是“战时”。
Central guidance group criticism: some time ago Hubei command system is still not "wartime."
新京报。
Beijing News.
山东济宁任城监狱确诊207人，细节首度披露…。
Shandong Jinning Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 people, the details of the first disclosure...
山东头条news。
Shandong Headline News.
中小学生3月1日能开学吗？看看各省的开学时间就知道了。
Can the primary and middle school students start school on March 1? Look at the opening hours of the provinces.
师者。
The teacher.
有网友在湖北上空拍到这一景象！很多人竟看出了眼泪....。
Some netizens took this picture above Hubei! Many people actually saw the tear....
新闻晨报。
Morning News.
湖北监狱323名罪犯确诊，20余名相关人员被党纪政纪处分。
In Hubei prison, 323 criminals were diagnosed and more than 20 related personnel were disciplined by the Party.
政事儿News。
Political Affairs News.
中国摄协抗击疫情摄影小分队，发自武汉！。
China Photography Squad Against Epidemic Disease, from Wuhan.
光明网。
Hanukkah.
浙江十里丰监狱一民警去武汉后刻意隐瞒继续上班，被立案调查。
Zhejiang 10 Li Feng prison a police went to Wuhan after deliberately concealing the continuation of work, was registered for investigation.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
大丰一女婿伪造存单骗岳母。
A son-in-law of Dafeng lied to his mother-in-law.
盐城新视野。
Yancheng New Vision.
今天 04:43。
Today is 04: 43.
陈一新督导湖北监狱系统打好防疫保卫战。
Chen new supervision Hubei prison system played a good preventive defense war.
长安剑。
Chang'an Sword.
济宁任城监狱200名确诊病例具体情况公布！因疫情防控不力，省司法厅厅...。
Jinning Ren City prison 200 confirmed cases of the specific circumstances announced! Because of the lack of effective epidemic prevention and control, the provincial Department of Justice...
山河头条。
Headlines of the mountain.
全国“停工令”升级，复工最晚3月16日，若在家办公工资怎么算？。
National "lockout order" upgrade, return to work by March 16 at the latest, if the wages at home how to calculate?
封面商业。
Cover Business.
新冠遗体解剖重要发现：病毒或有损免疫，单纯给氧或适得其反。
New crown body autopsy important discovery: virus or damage immunity, give oxygen simply or backfire.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
换错身爱对人：看着眼前两个人用的是彼此的身体，男子直接傻眼了。
Change Wrong Love: Look at the two people in front of each other is the body, the man directly stupid eyes.
最绅士。
The most genteel.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
25地昨日新增0确诊，病死率10连升需关注。
25 sites yesterday, a new 0 diagnosis, 10 liters of mortality to be concerned.
新京报。
Beijing News.
一狱警武汉探亲确诊后，34名罪犯感染，监狱政委、监狱长双丢官。
A prison guard Wuhan after the diagnosis of family visit, 34 criminals infected, prison commissar, prison director lost officers.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
潜逃12年，一杀人嫌犯疫情排查中落网！。
Flee for 12 years, a murder suspect caught in the epidemic!
新晚报。
New Evening News.
昨天 15:18。
Yesterday at 15: 18.
司法厅长丢官：省委接报监狱疫情连夜处置，次日启动问责调查。
The head of the judiciary: the provincial committee received reports of overnight prison treatment, the next day to launch an accountability investigation.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
听两位13岁的孩子讲述，大年三十是如何离开湖北的｜我的战“疫”（二十九）。
Listen to the story of two 13-year-old children about how they left Hubei province during the Spring Festival.
新华每日电讯。
Xinhua Daily Telegraph.
广州祈福新邨屡现确诊病例，一查发现有7000名湖北住户。
Guangzhou Kifu Xinxin Tsuen repeatedly confirmed cases, a survey found that there are 7,000 Hubei households.
生活消息。
Life news.
浙江通报监狱新增2例确诊，湖北通报新增监狱1例确诊、3例出院。
Zhejiang informed the prison of the new diagnosis of 2 cases, Hubei reported a new case of diagnosis, 3 cases discharged.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
陈一新督导湖北监狱：执行战时纪律、就地免职“逃兵”。
Chen Xin supervised Hubei prison: carried out wartime discipline, on-the-spot removal of "deserters."
新京报。
Beijing News.
沃尔沃赠送保险引争议 官方回应：产品现已升级。
Volvo Gives Insurance Controversial Official Response: Products Upgraded.
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
小伙在街边和女友亲吻，不料父亲开车看迷了，直接撞上了出租车。
A guy is kissing his girlfriend on the street, only to find his father driving into a car and hitting a taxi.
认真你就熟了就。
Be serious and you'll know it.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
世卫组织专家考察湖北：建议中方进一步完善重大疫情防控体制机制。
WHO experts visit Hubei: China is advised to further improve the major epidemic prevention and control system mechanism.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
国难面前, 私立医院都哪儿去了。
Where are the private hospitals in the face of the national tragedy?
大视野传媒。
Big-field media.
毛骨悚然！美媒：洛杉矶警员分享科比坠机现场遗体照片 还乐此不疲。
Media: Los Angeles police are happy to share photos of Bryant's body at the crash site.
狍子说体坛。
Roe deer said sports.
昨天 22:00。
Yesterday at 22: 00.
胡靖航租借加盟武汉卓尔 租借期为1年。
Hu joined Wuhan on loan for one year.
南京在线。
Nanjing Online.
不打招呼直插现场 司法厅厅长赴监所督查。
Do not say hello to the scene of the director of the Department of Justice to the prison supervision.
四川法制报。
Sichuan Law Journal.
济宁任城监狱一日新增200例新冠肺炎确诊，省司法厅厅长被免职。
Jinning Ren Cheng prison a day to add 200 new cases of diagnosis of pneumonia, provincial head of the Department of Justice was dismissed.
滕州信息港。
Tengzhou Information Port.
浙江新增病例突然反弹，原因细思恐极......。
Zhejiang new cases suddenly rebound, for reasons of fear of extreme...
环球网新媒体。
World Wide Web new media.
写给湖北小朋友的一封信。
A letter to Hubei children.
果雪儿学前国学教育。
Gosher preschool education.
数据统计 | 全国肺炎疫情数据跟踪2月18日。
Statistics & # 124; National pneumonia data tracking at 18 February.
中国汽车流通协会。
China Automobile Distribution Association.
关爱抗疫战士，网约乘车免单！老兵先锋队，给力！。
Care for anti-epidemic fighters, net about travel exemption! Veterans avant-garde, give strength!
焦作广播电视台新闻综合频道。
Jiaozuo radio and television news integrated channel.
今天 03:47。
Today is 03: 47.
爱与罚：失忆千金和穷小伙靠近彼此都脸红，二人怕是对彼此心动了。
Love and Penalty: Amnesia and poor guy close to each other blush, the two are afraid of each other's heart.
快乐大家庭。
Happy big family.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
陈翔六点半：小伙手机被狗吞进肚子，吓坏了一车乘客。
Chen Xiang 6: 30: small group of mobile phones was swallowed by the dog, scared a load of passengers.
大熊搏击。
Big Bear Fight.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
河南周口副市长因公殉职 年仅45岁。
The deputy mayor of Zhou Kou in Henan died in the line of duty.
本地号外。
Outside the local number.
今天 01:21。
Today is 01: 21.
女友的封建父亲报警还打他，小伙实在是受不了说：我们分手吧！。
The feudal father of his girlfriend called the police still hit him, the young man can not bear to say: let's break up!
嘿嘿笑。
Hey hey laugh.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
教育部：疫情得到有效控制前大学生不返校、高校不开学。
Ministry of Education: Effective control of the epidemic before university students do not return to school, universities do not open.
新京报。
Beijing News.
湖北需要太多的“陈行甲”，而且，不仅仅是湖北。
Hubei needs too much "Chen Xingjia", and not just Hubei.
。
.
天水美食。
Tianshui gourmet food.
查龙药师：父亲出现要强制带走kim，Kim说自己是自愿来找马里奥的。
Charon Pharmacist: My father showed up to forcibly take him away. Kim said he came to Mario voluntarily.
哈哈笑不停。
Laughing incessantly.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
灭绝人性！某小区告示：14天隔离费用11200元，每天800，业主自理。
Dehumanization! A community notice: 14 days isolation cost of 11,200 yuan, 800 per day, owners at their own expense.
柯桥卖布郎。
Kirk Bridge sells Brown.
昨天 16:25。
Yesterday at 16: 25.
痛心！浙江一23岁女子跳楼自杀，警方通报出炉。
Distressed! A 23-year-old woman jumped to her death in Zhejiang Province.
筱丽丽说财富。
No, no. No.
昨天 15:39。
Yesterday at 15: 39.
爱与罚：富家千金失忆智商像小孩，有人向千金示爱穷小伙不淡定了。
Love and Penalty: Rich family lost memory intelligence quotient like a child, someone to thousands of gold love poor man is not stable.
为乐而生。
Live for the fun.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
监狱这样一个高度封闭场所， 为何出现输入型新冠肺炎病例？。
Prison is such a highly closed place, why the case of imported New Crown Pneumonia?
中国之声。
Voice of China.
富少害怕灰姑娘和自己争夺继承权，在媒体面前说想要赶快接手公司。
Fearing that Cinderella would fight for her inheritance, Cinderella told the media that she wanted to take over the company quickly.
星星沙场。
Star Wars field.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
在海外美容院，活体蜗牛爬脸护肤，15万一次，你敢试吗？。
In overseas beauty salon, live snail crawls the skin, 150000 times, dare you try?
嘿嘿笑。
Hey hey laugh.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
湖北省委省政府致信陕西：感谢火线驰援、雪中送炭。
Hubei Provincial Government sent a letter to Shaanxi: Thank you for your help.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
今年高考会延期吗？教育部回应来了！。
Will the college entrance examination be postponed this year? The Ministry of Education has responded.
根河市人民检察院。
People's Procuratorate of Genghe City.
爱与罚：穷小伙离开留失忆千金一人在家，坏人来到家里带走了她。
Love and Penalty: the poor man left the amnesia thousands of gold at home, bad people came home to take her.
飞驴马哥。
Donkey and horse.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
农村小伙带你看看60年代用的豆浆机，你见过吗？。
The country guy shows you the bean milk machine used in the sixties. Have you ever seen one?
吃鸡小分队。
Eat chicken squadrons.
昨天 16:00。
Yesterday at 16: 00.
重庆黑龙江四川等地监狱推行战时管理模式，多省此前已宣布全封闭。
Chongqing Heilongjiang Sichuan and other places to implement wartime management model, many provinces have been declared closed.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
三男一女开房狂笑8小时，店主奔溃悄悄报了警，结果却哭笑不得。
Three men and a woman opened a room to laugh hysterically for eight hours, the shopkeeper snapped the police, but ended up crying and laughing.
刘姥姥的日常。
Liu Granny's daily routine.
今天 02:25。
Today is 02: 25.
加载更多。
Load more.
已经到底了。
It's over.
小狐找不到新闻了，请下拉重试吧～～。
Fox can not find the news, please pull down and try again.
热门图集。
Hot atlas.
被判终身“无期徒刑”的犯人，每天在监狱里做什么？说出来你可能不信！。
What does a life-long "life sentence" prisoner do in prison every day? You may not believe it!
20日青岛无新增，山东发布任城监狱疫情细节，8名司法系统官员被免。
Qingdao 20 no new, Shandong issued Ren Cheng prison epidemic details, eight judicial system officials were relieved.
任城监狱一刑满释放人员隔离期外逃！警方回应。
Ren Cheng prison released from a period of isolation of the escape! Police response.
被判终身“无期徒刑”的犯人，每天在监狱里做什么？说出来你可能不信！。
What does a life-long "life sentence" prisoner do in prison every day? You may not believe it!
20日青岛无新增，山东发布任城监狱疫情细节，8名司法系统官员被免。
Qingdao 20 no new, Shandong issued Ren Cheng prison epidemic details, eight judicial system officials were relieved.
山东台儿庄130吨医疗和生活物资驰援湖北。
Shandong Taierzhuang 130 tons of medical and living materials to help Hubei.
南京市“温暖10条”悉心呵护援助湖北医护...。
Nanking City "warm 10" meticulous care to help Hubei medical care...
最高层5天3次会议，这一定调近年罕见！习...。
Three meetings in the top five days, which must be rare in recent years! Xi...
漫威最美亚洲脸，一点都不比汪可盈差。
Manway is the most beautiful Asian face, no less than Wang Keying.
24小时热文。
24-hour heat.
说说天津卫——赤峰道上消失的卢永祥故居。
Talk about Tianjin Wei-Lu Yongxiang's former residence disappeared on Chifeng Road.
939 阅读。
939 Reading.
搜狐新社交产品内测倒计时，仅剩128个名额，速戳。
Sohu new social product inside the measurement countdown, only 128 places left, quick stamp.
100万 阅读。
1 million readings.
第一个停飞我国的国家，如今被全欧洲隔绝，全程都处在...。
The first country to be grounded in our country, now cut off from the whole of Europe, was...
71万 阅读。
710,000 readings.
岳飞墓前原本跪着5个人，如今只有4人在跪，另外一个凭...。
Yue Fei tomb originally kneeled five people, now only four people kneel, the other by...
1162 阅读。
1162 Read.
2月29日猪价：大面积飘绿，猪肉离降价不远了？看完心...。
Feb. 29: Pig price: a large area of green, pork price is not far from the price?
825 阅读。
825 Read.
搜狐号推荐。
Sohu recommended.
红星新闻。
Red Star News.
成都传媒集团旗下的新媒体平台。
Chengdu Media Group's new media platform.
在这里，你能看到锐度，体会深度，感受温度。
Here, you can see the sharpness, the depth, the temperature.
。
.
中国青年网。
China Youth Network.
中国青年网，1999年5月4日正式开通，共青团中央主办的中央重点新闻网站，是...。
China Youth Net, officially opened on May 4, 1999, is the central news website sponsored by the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League.
隐秘的大号。
Hidden tuba.
传播社会正能量。
Propagating positive social energy.
勿忘初心，牢记使命。
Remember the beginning, remember the mission.
。
.
南都观察。
Nantou observation.
南都观察由南都公益基金会发起，立足智识与理性，关注中国社会改革与转型进...。
NANDAO was launched by the Nandu Public Interest Foundation, which focuses on the reform and transformation of Chinese society based on wisdom and rationality...
后窗。
Back window.
记录大国小民，呈现人间百态。
Record big country small people, presents the human variety.
联系我们。
Contact us.
返回首页。
Back to front page.
用户反馈。
User feedback.
免费获取。
Free access.
今日搜狐热点。
Sohu hot spot today.
6秒后。
In six seconds.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
今日推荐。
Recommended today.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
意见反馈。
Feedback from Parties.
账号密码登录。
Account number password login.
手机动态码登录。
Mobile phone dynamic code login.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
下次自动登录找回密码。
Automatic login to retrieve the password next time.
注册。
Registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
下次自动登录。
Automatic login next time.
找回密码。
Retrieve the password.
注册。
Registration.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
为保证您的账户安全，建议您绑定手机号码。
To keep your account secure, it is recommended that you bind your mobile phone number.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
获取动态码。
Gets the dynamic code.
收不到短信验证码？点击获取 语音验证码。
Unable to receive SMS authentication code? Click to get a voice authentication code.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
系统出于安全考虑，在点击“发送语音验证码”后，您将会收到一条来自950开头号码的语音验证码，请注意接听。
For security reasons, you will receive a voice authentication code from the 950's opening number after clicking "Send Voice Authentication Code."
。
.
暂不发送发送语音验证码。
Temporarily does not send the voice authentication code.
手机注册。
Mobile phone registration.
邮箱注册。
Mailbox registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
同意《搜狐服务协议》。
Agree to Sohu Service Agreement.
使用已有账号登录。
Login with an existing account.
try{console.log("执行成功")。
try {console.log; performed successfully and quot;)
title: "三省五个监狱系统现确诊病例，10多名官员遭处理",。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
//adData_fd用于abtest。
/ / adData _ fd for abtest.
'<span><em class="icon err-js-icon"></em>JS加载错误，请重新加载。
& amp; apos; & ltd; span & gt; em class = & quot; icon err-js-icon & quot; & gt; & lt; / em & gt; JS loading error, please reload.
</span>' +。
Ritual; / span & gt; & apos; +.
'><em class="icon-cached"></em>刷新</a></div>';。
& apos; & gt; em class = 'class5' >; icon-cached & quot; & gt; & gt; / em & gt; Refresh & lt; / a & gt; a & ltd; / div & gt; & apos;;
console.error("发生错误",e);。
Console. error; & quot; & quot; e);
