疫情次生灾害： “非冠”患者的求生_义斐。
Epidemiological secondary disasters: the survival of patients with "non-crowns" _ Yifei.
//  加载监控代码。
/ / Load the monitoring code.
//解決IE8,IE9不支持console的问题。
/ / Resolution 8, IE9 does not support console.
搜狐首页。
Sohu Home Page
新闻。
Public information.
体育。
Sport.
汽车。
Automobiles.
房产。
Real estate.
旅游。
Tourism.
教育。
Education.
时尚。
Fashion.
科技。
Technology.
财经。
Finance.
娱乐。
Recreation.
更多。
More than that.
母婴。
Mother and child.
健康。
Health.
历史。
History.
军事。
Military.
美食。
Gourmet food.
文化。
Culture.
星座。
Constellation.
专题。
Topics.
游戏。
Play games.
搞笑。
It's funny.
动漫。
Animation.
宠物。
Pets.
登录。
Login.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
由内容质量、互动评论、分享传播等多维度分值决定，勋章级别越高(。
By content quality, interactive comments, sharing communication and other multi-dimensional points decided, the higher the medal level (.
)，代表其在平台内的综合表现越好。
), the better their overall performance within the platform.
。
.
5384文章。
Article 5384.
27亿总阅读。
2.7 billion readings.
查看TA的文章>。
View TA's article and gt;.
分享到。
Share it.
微信“扫一扫”分享到朋友圈。
Micromail "sweeps" and shares it with friends.
疫情次生灾害： “非冠”患者的求生。
Epidemiological secondary disasters: the survival of "non-crown" patients.
来源:中国新闻周刊。
Source: China News Weekly.
原标题：疫情次生灾害： “非冠”患者的求生。
Original title: Secondary disaster of epidemic: survival of "non-crown" patients.
2019年11月，湖北一家医院的肾病内科透析室图/IC。
Nephrology room map / IC of a hospital in Hubei Province, November 2019.
疫情次生灾害：“非冠”患者的求生。
Epidemiological secondary disasters: the survival of "non-crown" patients.
本刊记者/霍思伊 胥大伟。
This print journalist / Hoschlich Dawei.
发于2020.3.2总第937期《中国新闻周刊》。
Published in 2020.3.2 General No. 937, China News Weekly.
2月15日，武汉迎来了庚子年的首场降雪。
On February 15, Wuhan welcomed the first snowfall in the year of Gengzi.
很多人对这场雪印象深刻。
Many people were impressed by the snow.
。
.
张义斐在打电话的间隙，抬头看窗外，整个城市仍荒芜似一座孤岛，雪落在地上，白茫茫的一片。
Zhang Yifi in the telephone gap, looked up the window, the city is still barren like an island, snow fell on the ground, a vast expanse of white.
。
.
本该去医院透析的王德昌正在一家酒店隔离。
Wang Dechang, who was supposed to be in hospital for dialysis, was quarantined at a hotel.
他想着今晚给老婆打电话送一箱泡面过来。
He wanted to call his wife tonight and send over a box of noodles.
。
.
下雪路滑，轮椅不好走，姜琲的母亲从医院门口，非常缓慢地把自己拖到了透析室，一步一颤。
The snow slippery, wheelchair is not easy to walk, Jiang Zheng's mother from the hospital door, very slowly dragged himself to the dialysis room, a shiver.
很快，她开始低烧。
Soon, she began to have a low fever.
。
.
他们三人，一个28岁，一个56岁，另一个64岁。
They were three, one aged 28, one aged 56 and the other aged 64.
人生本该没有任何交集，因为这场突发的疫情，他们有了一个共同的称谓——“非冠”患者。
Life should have no intersection, because the outbreak of the disease, they have a common name - "non-crown" patients.
。
.
在2月之前，非冠患者的求助少有人关注。
Prior to February, non-crown patients received less attention.
随着“清零”和“应收尽收”的逐步落实，新冠患者收治难的问题得到了有效缓解，武汉整体的疫情防控局面也开始步入轨道。
With the gradual implementation of "zero" and "receivable", the problem of new crown patients receiving treatment has been effectively alleviated, Wuhan as a whole, the situation of disease prevention and control has begun to enter into orbit.
但另一面，越来越多的医院被征用，资源向新冠肺炎患者倾斜，原有的病人被中断治疗，正常的医疗秩序被彻底打乱。
On the other hand, more hospitals are being expropriated, resources are tilted to patients with pneumonia, old patients are cut off from treatment, and normal medical order is completely disrupted.
。
.
一个由志愿者建立的网站专门收集每日微博上的求助。
A website set up by volunteers collects help on the daily microblog.
2月15日，共有29条求助信息，其中19条来自非冠患者。
On 15 February, there were 29 help messages, of which 19 were from non-crown patients.
此后，非冠求助的比例不断增加。
Since then, the proportion of non-crown requests has been increasing.
同一天，武汉新增确诊病例1548例，累积确诊达到35314例。
On the same day, Wuhan confirmed 1548 new cases, cumulative diagnosis reached 35,314 cases.
但在官方统计数字之外，因疫情而中断放化疗的癌症患者、无法按时透析的尿毒症患者，以及无法进行移植的白血病患者等特殊群体有多少人？却没有统计。
But beyond official statistics, how many people in particular groups, such as cancer patients who have been cut off from chemotherapy due to the outbreak, uremic patients who are unable to undergo dialysis on a regular basis, and leukaemia patients who cannot be transplanted?
。
.
民间人士用“肺炎次生灾害”来形容这次疫情带来的一系列负面影响，除了中小企业破产危机、民众心理创伤难愈，更迫切而现实的，是这些非冠患者的生死等待。
Civilian personage uses "pneumonia secondary disaster" to describe this epidemic brings a series of negative effects, besides small and medium-sized enterprises bankruptcy crisis, the people's psychological trauma difficult to heal, more urgent and realistic, is the life and death of these non-crown patients.
。
.
展开全文。
Unfold the full text.
“我们仿佛是一群被遗弃的人”。
We seem to be a group of abandoned people.
武汉鼠年首场大雪前三天。
Wuhan rat first snow three days before the year.
2月12日上午，包括张义斐在内，一共约110名原本正在放疗的癌症患者全部搬到了另一栋楼。
On the morning of February 12, about 110 cancer patients, including Zhang Yifu, who had been on radiotherapy, moved to another building.
就在两天前，他们刚刚入院。
They were in hospital just two days ago.
。
.
和一周前已经陆续停止治疗，被要求强制出院的化疗患者比，张义斐觉得自己还算幸运。
Zhang feels lucky compared with patients who stopped treatment a week ago and were ordered to be discharged from the hospital.
但就在入院后第二天，病友群里就有人说，别的病区的医生已经得到通知，所有放疗患者全部要出院。
But the day after admission, someone in the group said doctors in other areas had been notified that all patients would be discharged from the hospital.
他去问他的医生，对方也说不准，只说院领导还在商议。
He went to ask his doctor, but the other side could not tell, except that the head of the court was still deliberating.
。
.
张义斐今年28岁，2019年10月，在湖南老家被确诊为鼻咽癌中晚期。
Zhang Yifu, 28, was diagnosed with advanced nasopharyngeal cancer in his native Hunan province in October 2019.
11月初，开始在华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院肿瘤中心住院治疗，这里是湖北省治鼻咽癌最好的医院之一。
At the beginning of November, he was hospitalized at the Tongji Medical College Tongji Hospital Oncology Center, one of the best hospitals in Hubei Province for the treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer.
治疗方案是3次诱导化疗，再加33次放疗。
The treatment regimen consisted of three induction chemotherapy plus 33 radiotherapy sessions.
12月底，三次化疗结束后，增强CT显示，肿瘤病变区域缩小。
At the end of December, after three chemotherapy sessions, enhanced CT revealed a narrowing of the lesion area.
医生说，“效果很好，再放疗一下（肿瘤）就没了。
"The doctor said," It worked fine. One more radiotherapy (tumor) is gone.
”。
"
年后没多久，医院突然通知放疗患者全部住院。
A short time later, the hospital suddenly notified the radiotherapy patients that all were hospitalized.
放疗原本不要求住院，因为每次只有十分钟，患者每周有三天在固定时间去医院的放疗科即可。
Radiotherapy was not required, as it was only 10 minutes at a time, and the patient went to the radiotherapy unit of the hospital three days a week.
但特殊时期，张义斐推测，医院担忧，病人每天往返，路上有感染新冠肺炎的风险。
But during the special period, Zhang speculated that the hospital was worried, with patients commuting every day and at risk of contracting pneumonia on the road.
。
.
2月11日晚上，刚入院的张义斐得到通知，协和肿瘤中心马上也要被征收为肺炎定点医院。
On the night of Feb. 11, newly admitted Zhang Yifi was informed that the Concorde Oncology Center would soon be collected as a pneumonia-designated hospital.
医院一共有三栋楼，住院部所在的1、2栋全部要收治肺炎病人。
The hospital has a total of three buildings, the inpatient department is located in 1 or 2 all want to treat pneumonia patients.
放疗病人原本住在2栋，统一要搬去3栋。
The radiotherapy patient originally lives in 2, the unification wants to move 3.
有患者问，放疗室在2栋的负一层，整栋楼共用一套通风系统，通风口就在负一的楼梯口，被征用后，病毒很可能从上面下来。
One patient asked if the radiotherapy room was on the negative floor of two buildings, the entire building shared a ventilation system, and the vents were at the stairway of the negative one, from which the virus was likely to come down.
而且整栋楼都是新冠肺炎病人，他们怎么过去，医生没有答复。
And the whole building is full of patients with pneumonia, how they went over, the doctor did not reply.
当天，出院的说法开始在患者间流传开来。
On the same day, reports of hospital discharges began to circulate among patients.
。
.
12日，搬到新病房后，张义斐开始打求助电话。
After moving to the new ward on February 12, Zhang Yifi began to call for help.
先打到江汉区指挥部，工作人员说，你们不是还没搬走嘛！等要搬走的时候再打电话。
First call Jianghan District Command, the staff said, you have not moved away! Wait until the time to move to call again.
他说“那我怎么办啊？”对方说，此事不归他们管，要他去问区卫健委。
He said, "What should I do?" Said the other side, the matter is not their responsibility, he asked the District Health Committee.
区卫健委说，协和是省级医院，他们管不了，让他打给市卫健委。
District health committee said, Concorde is a provincial hospital, they can not control, let him call the city health committee.
市卫健委说，没得到通知，但会向上面反映。
The city health committee said it was not notified but would report it to the committee.
市长热线也是同样的说法。
The same is true of the mayor's hotline.
。
.
第二天上午，张义斐从放疗室出来，医生就让他去办出院手续，说下午新冠肺炎病人就要过来了，这儿不安全，赶紧回家。
The next morning, Zhang Yifi came out of the radiotherapy room. The doctor asked him to go through the discharge formalities.
他想，如果现在回老家，重新入院治疗，至少还要隔离14天，时间太长，对放疗到一半的患者而言，这个影响很难预估。
He thought it would be too long for him to return to his hometown and go back to hospital for at least 14 days, an effect that was difficult to predict for half of the patients treated by radiation.
于是他没有第一时间回去。
So he had no time to go back.
后来的事实证明，随着武汉管控措施的不断升级，出城成为一件根本不可能的事情。
Later, it turned out that with the continuous upgrading of Wuhan control measures, out of the city has become a completely impossible thing.
。
.
按照程序，医院给外地患者办理出院后，同时开具出城证明，患者凭这个证明向区、市指挥部层层申请，同时报给老家的社区。
In accordance with the procedures, the hospital discharged patients outside the hospital, at the same time issued a city certificate, the patient with this certificate to the district, city headquarters, and report back to the local community.
张义斐说，除了2月13日当天有两个病友托关系出城以外，13日之后，再也没有外地患者出过城。
Zhang said no patients had been out of town since February 13, except for two sick people who had been taken out of the city on February 13.
。
.
2月13日，是张义斐出院的日子。
February 13 is the day Zhang Yifu was discharged from hospital.
这天下午4点20分，协和肿瘤中心第一批新冠肺炎转院病人的收治正式启动。
At 4: 20 p. m., the admission of the first referral patients from the Concorde Oncology Center to the hospital was officially launched.
中心共开设14个发热病区，共计850张病床。
The Centre operates 14 febrile areas with a total of 850 beds.
医疗团队由外省市医疗队和协和自己的医疗队共同组成，抽调医生涵盖重症医学、呼吸、感染和肿瘤等科室。
The team, composed of medical teams from foreign provinces and cities and Concorde's own medical team, drew doctors from departments of severe medicine, breathing, infection and tumours.
据《中国新闻周刊》了解，很多肿瘤病人的主治医生上了前线，此后很难联系上。
According to China News Weekly, many oncologists have been on the front lines and it has been difficult to reach them since.
。
.
办出院手续时，张义斐正好看到主治医生。
When the discharge formalities, Zhang Yifi just saw the attending doctor.
对方说，12日晚上他一直在跟院领导沟通，看能否给患者继续治疗，比如让病人签一个风险同意书，如果感染自己负责，不怪医院。
The other said he had been communicating with hospital officials on the night of the 12th to see if he could continue treatment, such as getting the patient to sign a risk consent form and, if infected, not to blame the hospital.
但领导有顾虑，没有同意。
But the leader had misgivings and did not agree.
他又和院方争取，多给出院患者打一次化疗药，仍没有被批准。
He and the hospital to fight for more patients discharged from the hospital to make a chemotherapy, is still not approved.
。
.
他很担心张义斐，怕放疗到一半，肿瘤会再次长大。
He was worried about Zhang Yifu. He feared that the tumor would grow again in the middle of the radiotherapy.
。
.
第二天，张义斐在病友群里看到武汉协和医院党委书记张玉接受《新京报》采访的截图。
The next day, Zhang Yifu in the sick group saw Wuhan Association and hospital party secretary Zhang Yu accepted the Beijing News interview screenshot.
对癌症患者被强制出院的事，张玉回应说，病情暂时可控、化疗结束的患者被建议出院。
In response to the forced discharge of cancer patients, Zhang responded that patients whose condition was temporarily under control and whose chemotherapy had ended were recommended for discharge.
留院的是病情较重的患者。
Those who remain in the hospital are patients with more serious illnesses.
。
.
“群里所有人都很愤怒。
"Everyone in the group was angry.
我去病区看过，留院的患者目测有30人左右，都是外地回不了家的，暂时住在医院，没给任何治疗。
I went to the hospital area to see, the hospital patients visual test about 30 people, are unable to return home, temporarily live in the hospital, no treatment.
”张义斐气愤地对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"Zhang Yifi angrily told China News Weekly.
。
.
张玉还指出，若出院后病情恶化可重新入院，渠道是畅通的。
Zhang Yu also pointed out that if the conditions worsen after discharge from hospital can be re-admission, the channels are open.
据《中国新闻周刊》调查了解，协和肿瘤中心被征用后，所有放化疗治疗全部停止，也不再允许患者重新住院，放疗室外贴了封条。
According to the China News Weekly survey, after the concord oncology center was requisitioned, all radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatments were stopped, patients were no longer allowed to re-enter the hospital, and the radiotherapy outdoors was sealed.
。
.
武汉协和医院宣传部副部长涂晓晨2月19日对《中国新闻周刊》说，协和肿瘤中心没有中断患者的治疗，已经出院的都是治疗完成的。
Wu Hanhui Hospital propaganda department deputy minister Tu Xiaochen told China News Weekly on February 19, Concorde tumor center has not interrupted the treatment of patients, has been discharged from the hospital is completed treatment.
目前，未完成治疗的肿瘤患者被专门安排到一个“清洁区”继续治疗。
Tumor patients who have not completed treatment are now placed in a "clean area" to continue treatment.
他还说，化疗现在还可以做，但放疗已经停了。
Chemotherapy, he said, is still available, but radiation therapy has stopped.
。
.
对于截至2月19日仍在协和肿瘤中心的癌症病人数量，他说:“一周前是100多人，这两天数字我不太清楚。
For the number of cancer patients still at the Concorde Oncology Center as of February 19, he said: "A week ago there were more than 100.
”。
"
他不知道的是，就在一周前，在100多人被安排到“清洁区”后的第二天，就全部被中断治疗，要求出院。
What he did not know was that just a week earlier, the day after more than 100 people had been placed in the "clean area," they had all been suspended from treatment and asked to be discharged.
据《中国新闻周刊》了解，被中断放疗的患者共计110余名，留在医院的约30名，都是外地患者。
According to China News Weekly, more than 110 patients have been cut off from radiotherapy and about 30 remain in hospitals, all of whom are patients from outside the country.
。
.
其中数位患者向《中国新闻周刊》证实，他们虽留在医院，但已经停止治疗，一些人口服化疗药替代，副作用强烈时，护士会给他们输护肝护胃的药。
Several of the patients confirmed to China News Weekly that they remained in the hospital but had stopped treatment, that some had been replaced by oral chemotherapy and that when the side effects were severe, nurses would give them liver and stomach medication.
其他时间，每天只有护士来测体温。
At other times of the day, only nurses take temperature tests.
。
.
对这些留院患者而言，每天的生活由失眠、焦虑、吃饭和呼吸构成。
For these hospitalized patients, daily life consists of insomnia, anxiety, eating and breathing.
一天的盒饭共33元，饭是硬的，要拿水泡开。
One day the box rice total 33 yuan, the rice is hard, want to take the bubble open.
接受了放化疗的患者大多食欲不振。
Most of the patients who received radiation and chemotherapy suffered from loss of appetite.
由于疫情，出不了房间，整日不能动弹。
Because of the epidemic, we can't get out of the room.
整栋楼从早到晚都安安静静，病房里没有人说话。
The whole building was quiet from morning till night, and no one spoke in the ward.
。
.
2月15日，大雪。
February 15th, heavy snow.
。
.
这天，官方发出通告，进一步扩大新冠重症定点医院的范围，把武汉的委属委管医院和省属大医院的优质医疗资源都拿出来，协和肿瘤中心、协和西院、同济医院的中法院区、光谷院区，以及省人民医院的东院，都作为集中收治重症病例的定点医院，床位扩大到了5000张。
On the same day, the authorities issued a notice to further expand the scope of the Xinguan Severe Acute Respiratory Hospital, releasing high-quality medical resources from Wuhan's appointed hospitals and provincial hospitals. The Concorde Oncology Center, the Western Concorde Hospital, the Central Court District of Tongji Hospital, the Kwong Valley Hospital and the East Campus of the Provincial People's Hospital were all designated hospitals for the intensive treatment of serious cases.
当日，协和肿瘤中心的微信公号头条是《风雪无阻！协和医院肿瘤中心昨日完成539名病人转运收治》。
On the same day, the official headline of Concorde's Center for Oncology was "Blizzard Free! Concorde Hospital Oncology Center completed the transfer of 539 patients yesterday."
。
.
《中国新闻周刊》了解到，除了协和肿瘤中心被中断治疗的110余位癌症患者，其他来自同济中法、光谷院区有同样经历的患者也有很多，而这只是在最新一批征用之后。
In addition to the more than 110 cancer patients whose treatment was interrupted at the Concorde Cancer Center, the China News Weekly reported that there were many other patients from Tongzhong-Fa and Guanggu courtyard districts who had similar experiences, and that this was only after the latest requisition.
这个群体远比想象中庞大。
This group is much bigger than expected.
。
.
从1月22日迄今，武汉先后有5批共计46家医院被征用。
Since January 22, Wuhan has had five batches of 46 hospitals requisitioned.
在官方名单之外，还有一些小型的私立或专科医院被临时征用。
In addition to the official list, a number of small private or specialized hospitals have been temporarily requisitioned.
2月5日晚上7点50分，武汉广发肿瘤专科医院正在接受临终照料的15余位癌症晚期患者也突然接到通知，医院临时被征用。
At 7: 50 p.m. on February 5, more than 15 patients with terminal care at Wuhan Guangfa Special Oncology Hospital were suddenly notified that the hospital had been temporarily requisitioned.
仅10分钟后，这些患者停掉了打到一半的营养液，从医院门口被抬了出去。
Only 10 minutes later, the patients stopped half of the fluid and were taken out of the hospital gate.
。
.
一位亲人已经去世的患者家属告诉《中国新闻周刊》，被强制出院时，对于后续如何治疗，在家里怎么护理，如何让病人哪怕能减轻一点痛苦，哪怕是口头上的一个交代都没有。
The family of a deceased relative told China News Weekly that there was not even a verbal confession of how to treat the patient, how to take care of him at home and how to make the patient feel a little less pain when he was forcibly discharged from the hospital.
当时，整个医院处于无序的状态，连护士长都是临时接到通知。
At that time, the whole hospital was in a state of disorder, even the head nurse was informed on short notice.
。
.
2月13日晚上，张义斐从医院侧门离开，看着三辆公交车拉着满满的新冠肺炎病人住进他们的病房，他不知何去何从。
On the evening of February 13, Zhang left the side door of the hospital and watched as three buses loaded with patients with pneumonia entered their wards.
。
.
他对《中国新闻周刊》说：“我们仿佛是一群被遗弃的人。
"We seem to be a bunch of abandoned people," he told China News Weekly.
”。
"
“政策还没有细化到这个群体”。
"The policy has not been refined to this group."
在张义斐出院当晚，王德昌也被连夜送去了酒店隔离。
On the night of Zhang's discharge from hospital, Wang Dechang was also taken to the hotel overnight to be quarantined.
。
.
2月13日，王德昌照例去武汉市第三医院光谷院区做透析，接到透析室通知，所有透析患者要做CT排查。
On February 13, Wang Dechang went to the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital for dialysis as usual. He was informed by the dialysis room that all dialysis patients should undergo CT scan.
他的CT结果显示：双肺感染，病毒性可能。
His CT findings suggest that two-lung infections may be viral.
。
.
医院马上通知社区，当晚，社区打电话给他的儿子王朗，通知他带父亲去指定酒店隔离。
Hospital immediately informed the community, that night, the community called his son Wang Lang, told him to take his father to designated hotel isolation.
从家步行20分钟后，王德昌住进了一家酒店，开始隔离。
After a 20-minute walk from his home, Wang Dechang moved into a hotel and began seclusion.
。
.
但更紧迫的难题是，光谷院区不再允许王德昌去透析。
But the more pressing problem is that the Gwanggu compound no longer allows Wang Dechang to undergo dialysis.
医院说，如果是确诊为新冠肺炎透析患者，可以继续留在医院透析，因为该院区已经于1月27日被征收为发热定点医院。
The hospital said it was able to remain in hospital dialysis if it was confirmed to be a new crown pneumonia dialysis patient, as the hospital district had been expropriated as a febrile designated hospital on 27 January.
如果彻底排除嫌疑，可以去第三医院首义院区透析。
If the suspicion is completely excluded, dialysis can be done in the first courtyard of hospital No. 3.
但对于疑似患者，医院没有给出明确的解决方案。
But for the suspected patients, the hospital did not give a clear solution.
。
.
事实上，在武汉相继公布了几家定点透析医院后，因为医院被临时征收造成的透析难现象，已经得到有效缓解。
In fact, after several designated dialysis hospitals were announced in Wuhan, the dialysis difficulties caused by the temporary collection of hospitals have been effectively alleviated.
但这些定点医院分为两类，只针对确诊或非新冠病人。
However, these designated hospitals are divided into two categories, only for confirmed or non-new patients.
对疑似病人是否收治，官方没有明确指示，具体做法，各区都不相同，但在疫情防控成为首要任务的当下，每个医院都要在收治与风险之间进行一番谨慎的权衡。
There are no clear instructions on whether patients should be admitted or not. Each district is different, but each hospital has to weigh admission against risk when prevention and control of the disease is a priority.
。
.
首义院区说，肺部有炎症他们不敢收。
The courtyard said the lungs were inflamed and they were afraid to take it.
武汉市普仁医院放射科医生更明确，对王朗说，看到他的（CT）片子,在当下的疫情大环境下，没有哪一个医生敢给你一个肯定的诊断。
Wuhan Puren Hospital radiologist clearer, told Wang Lang, to see his (CT) film, in the current epidemic environment, no doctor dare to give you a positive diagnosis.
。
.
但王朗觉得，父亲染上新冠的可能很小，肺部炎症更可能是此前肺炎的遗留影响。
But Wang Lang felt that the father may be infected with a new crown is very small, lung inflammation is more likely to be the legacy of pneumonia.
王德昌于2017年4月被诊断出慢性肾衰竭末期，此后每周去光谷院区透析三次。
Wang was diagnosed with chronic renal failure in April 2017 and has been on dialysis three times a week since then.
在2019年1月、5月和11月都曾因为肺炎住院。
He was hospitalized with pneumonia in January, May and November 2019.
。
.
事实上，透析患者群体比较特殊，由于体内水分和毒素经年排不出去，会在身体滞留，肺部和心脏一般都有些问题，比如肺气肿、肺部积液或心脏积液。
In fact, dialysis patients are unusual in that their bodies are blocked by years of excretion of water and toxins, and the lungs and heart generally suffer from problems such as emphysema, pulmonary effusion, or cardiac effusion.
但单从影像学的表现上，目前仍很难区分新冠肺炎和普通肺炎。
However, it is still very difficult to distinguish between Newly Coronary Pneumonia and Common Pneumonia.
而核酸检测的不准确性又使医院不敢仅根据核酸检测结果做出判断。
And the inaccuracy of nucleic acid detection makes the hospital afraid to judge based on the nucleic acid test results alone.
。
.
王德昌先后做过两次核酸检测，结果都是阴性，但仍被列为“疑似”。
Wang Dechang has done two nucleic acid tests, the results are negative, but is still classified as "suspected."
据王朗了解，像他父亲这样的“疑似”透析患者，在武汉透析人群中占很大的比例。
According to Wang Lang, "suspected" dialysis patients like his father make up a large proportion of the dialysis population in Wuhan.
。
.
王朗指出，由于病人群体本身很复杂，政策上还没有细化到疑似透析病人这个群体。
Wang Lang points out, because the patient group itself is very complex, the policy has not been detailed to suspected dialysis patients this group.
但他了解到，一些疑似患者和他父亲情况类似，但有些人已经通过向社区、街道各层面反映，利用各种渠道住进了医院。
However, he learned that some of the suspected patients were in a similar situation to his father, but some had been admitted to the hospital through various channels, as reflected to the community and the street.
。
.
他也给所在区各政府部门打过电话，他告诉《中国新闻周刊》，这取决于每个区各自的统筹效率和医疗资源。
He also telephoned various government departments in his district, telling China News Weekly, depending on the overall efficiency and medical resources of each district.
。
.
一方面，他所在的武汉东湖新技术开发区医院资源较少，区内所有的医院他都打过电话，要不就是没床位，要不就是不收疑似。
On the one hand, his hospital in the Wuhan Donghu New Technology Development Zone has fewer resources, and he has called all the hospitals in the area, either without beds or suspected.
另一方面，跨区调配需要由社区、街道、区指挥部一级级上报到市指挥部，再由市里根据每日报备信息统一进行调配。
On the other hand, cross-district deployment needs to be reported by the community, street, district command level to the city headquarters, and then by the city based on the daily report of the unified deployment.
但他发现，即使和市指挥部通过电话，他们也只是打回给东湖高新区让其自行解决。
But he found that even after talking to the city headquarters by telephone, they simply called back the East Lake District and left it to themselves.
。
.
一切又回到原点。
It's all back to square one.
。
.
王朗不知道的是，2月中旬以前，由于密集地征收新的公立医院，透析患者透析难的问题曾经集中爆发出来，当时，哪个医院有位子就把病人分流过去。
What Wang did not know was that, until mid-February, as a result of the intensive collection of new public hospitals, the problem of dialysis among dialysis patients had been concentrated, with the result that a hospital had a seat to divert patients.
那段时间，成功进行过十几例跨区调配。
During that period, more than a dozen cross-district deployments were successfully carried out.
但随着大多数透析病人逐渐稳定，各区原本的透析资源也趋近饱和，政策收紧。
But as most dialysis patients stabilized, dialysis resources in the districts became saturated and policies were tightened.
从中下旬开始，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部要求各区自行解决自己的透析病人。
From the second half of the city, Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Command asked all districts to resolve their own dialysis patients.
。
.
一位在协和肿瘤中心住过的透析病人家属对《中国新闻周刊》解释，比如，如果有五位透析病人因为病情危急住进了协和肿瘤中心，指挥部收到上报后，第二天，就会要求各区把各自的病人接回本区医院。
If, for example, five dialysis patients were admitted to the Concorde Oncology Center because of their critical condition, the command would ask the district to bring their patients back to the hospital the next day, the family told China News Weekly.
。
.
依据官方要求，医院从2月中旬开始彻底不对私开放，所有病人除了紧急透析的情况，必须通过指挥部统一协调安排。
Hospitals have been officially closed to the private sector since mid-February, and all patients, with the exception of emergency dialysis, must be placed under unified command coordination arrangements.
王朗曾咨询过位于青山区的武汉市普仁医院，如果住院，是否要社区与之报备，对方说不用，个人直接过来就行。
Wang Lang has consulted the Wuhan Puren Hospital in Qingshan District, if hospitalized, whether the community to report it, the other side said no, the individual directly over.
这说明，一些医院还是有一定的自主权，整个武汉市对医疗资源的统筹调度仍然比较无序，政策频繁变更且缺乏公开，都增加了患者通过政府渠道求助的难度。
This shows that some hospitals still have a certain degree of autonomy, the overall scheduling of medical resources in Wuhan City is still quite disorderly, frequent changes in policy and lack of openness, all of which make it more difficult for patients to seek help through government channels.
。
.
多位患者对《中国新闻周刊》表示，政策一天一变，也不知道从哪里获取最新的信息，只能每天不断地给各部门打电话，社区、街道、区卫健委、市卫健委、区指挥部、市指挥部，以及市长热线。
Many patients told China News Weekly that policies change day by day and do not know where to get up-to-date information. They can only call departments on a daily basis, communities, streets, district health committees, city health committees, district commands, city commands and mayors' hotlines.
等到的反馈大多是“我们已经上报，请您耐心等待”。
Waiting for the feedback is mostly "we have already reported, please be patient."
。
.
2月13日出院后，张义斐每天都在打电话。
After he was discharged from hospital on February 13, Zhang Yifi made phone calls every day.
市长热线一打过去，他们就说“张先生您好”，接线员已经认识他了。
As soon as the mayor's hotline was called, they said, "Hello, Mr. Zhang." The operator already knew him.
“我觉得常人无法做到感同身受。
"I don't think people can empathize.
得这个病，对我来讲本来就是很大的一个打击，我才二十几岁，没结婚，我妈就我一个儿子，现在又中断治疗。
It was a big blow to me. I was in my twenties, I wasn't married, and my mother, who was a son of mine, is now out of treatment.
一个病友就讲，一个人在绝望中什么事都做得出来。
A sick friend says that one can do anything in despair.
”他说。
'he said.
。
.
2月19日，武汉市卫健委主动给他打了一个电话。
February 19, Wuhan city health committee volunteered to give him a phone call.
对话如下：。
Dialogue as follows:
卫健委：“住院没有？”。
Wellness committee: "Is hospitalization?"
张义斐：“还没有。
Zhang Yifi: "Not yet.
”。
"
卫：“同济和协和本部现在可以收。
Wei: Tongji and Concorde can be collected now.
”。
"
张：“我亲自去协和同济问过，都不开放。
Zhang: I went to Concorde myself and asked him, but it was not open.
”。
"
卫：“那其他医院呢?”。
Wei: What about the other hospitals?
张：“听说普仁可以。
Zhang: I heard that Puren can.
”。
"
卫：“那你去啊。
Wei: "Then you go.
”。
"
张：“我还在考虑，而且还有那么多病友，一个医院也不够。
Zhang: "I'm still thinking about it, and there are so many sick friends that a hospital is not enough.
”。
"
卫：“你别管他们，你自己先住进去。
Wei: Forget about them. You live in there yourself.
”。
"
张：“现在社区的车出不去，我过去也不方便，你们能帮忙吗？”。
Zhang: "Now the community can not get out of the car, I used to be inconvenient, you can help?"
卫：“这个没办法，只有靠你们自己。
Wei: There's no choice but to rely on yourselves.
你有联系其他医院吗？”。
Have you contacted any other hospitals?
张：“你们自己都没搞清楚哪些医院可以住，你就给我打电话，你给我打这个电话有什么意义？”。
Zhang: "You don't know which hospitals can live in, so you call me. What's the point of calling me?"
另一边，王朗持续不断的电话，确实起到了一定“作用”。
On the other hand, Wang Lang's continuous phone calls did play a role.
。
.
2月16日晚，东湖高新区的武汉光谷科技会展中心方舱医院正式开始收治病人，隔离酒店接到通知，立刻把酒店里所有轻症病人分流到新建好的方舱。
On the night of Feb. 16, the Fang Cao Hospital of Wuhan Guanggu Science and Technology Convention and Exhibition Center in Donghu High-tech District officially opened to patients.
王德昌是疑似，仍被酒店连夜送入方舱。
Wang Dechang is suspected that the hotel is still sent into the cabin overnight.
。
.
王朗母亲听说后非常着急，担心他在方舱交叉感染，马上给社区打了一通紧急电话，社区报给街道，街道临时召开了一小时会议，经讨论后，连夜派车又将王德昌从方舱内接出，送到了另一家隔离酒店。
When Wang Lang heard about this, she was worried that he might get cross-infected in the cabin. She made an emergency call to the community. The community reported to the street. After a one-hour meeting, the street was temporarily called for an hour.
但此前，他已经在方舱待了三个小时。
But he had been in the cabin for three hours.
回来时，王德昌被塞进车辆后备箱内一个等人大小的箱子内，用于隔离。
On his return, Wang was crammed into a waiting-sized box in the trunk of the car for isolation.
。
.
2月19日凌晨，社区突然把王德昌从隔离酒店接出，连夜送到了武汉市第三医院光谷院区。
In the early morning of February 19, the community suddenly picked up Wang Dechang from the isolated hotel and sent him overnight to Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital.
同行的共有三个透析病人，两个疑似，一个确诊，司机穿着防护服，三人只戴了口罩。
The group had three dialysis patients, two suspected, one confirmed, the driver wearing protective clothing and three wearing only face masks.
到达住院部后，医生说，只收确诊，另两个疑似病人仍无法入院。
Upon arrival at the inpatient department, the doctor said that only the diagnosis had been taken and the other two suspected patients remained hospitalized.
但司机已经走了，他们被留在了医院门口。
But the driver was gone and they were left in front of the hospital.
。
.
天蒙蒙亮，王德昌的妻子从家里骑着三轮车，去医院门口把他接回酒店，往返用了快两个小时。
It was daybreak and Wang's wife rode a tricycle from home to take him back to his hotel at the hospital gate, spending almost two hours commuting.
此时，他已经中断透析快6天，情况危急。
By this time, he had been on dialysis for almost six days and was in critical condition.
19日白天，再次回到光谷院区挂急诊透了一次。
During the day, I went back to Guanggu Yard and had an emergency operation again.
。
.
一位三甲医院的透析科主任告诉《中国新闻周刊》，没尿的病人透析最多停三四天，如果一周没透，体内的高钾极容易造成心脏骤停，非常危险。
A dialysis director at Triple A Hospital told China News Weekly that dialysis patients with no urine stay for up to three to four days, and high levels of potassium in the body can cause a dangerous cardiac arrest if not seen through a week.
。
.
“此前我们一直不敢让他去光谷透，因为那里都是确诊的新冠肺炎病人，不敢去承担这个风险，但到了危急的时候，就顾不上那么多了。
"We had been afraid to let him go to Guanggu Tou, because there are confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia patients, do not dare to take the risk, but when the crisis, there is not so much.
”王朗说。
"said Wang Lang.
。
.
近期武汉许多医院的病房被改造，用于抗击新冠肺炎疫情。
Recently, the wards of many hospitals in Wuhan have been renovated to fight the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
摄影/Gerry。
Photography / Gerry.
“武汉现在就像一根弦”。
Wuhan is like a string now.
武汉大雪过后，姜琲的母亲开始低烧。
After the heavy snow in Wuhan, Jiang Zedong's mother started low fever.
。
.
家人怀疑是大雪那天，轮椅走不了，她不得不从医院门口步行到透析室，受了寒。
Suspected of being unable to walk in a wheelchair on a snowy day, she had to walk from the hospital gate to the dialysis room, suffering from the cold.
去年，她突发脑梗，丧失了部分语言能力。
Last year, she suffered a brain attack and lost part of her language skills.
在更早之前，她得了慢性肾衰竭，目前已经透析五年。
Earlier, she suffered from chronic kidney failure and has been on dialysis for five years.
。
.
2月20日早上，CT结果显示双肺感染，多发斑块状、片絮状磨玻璃样模糊影，大概率是新冠肺炎。
On the morning of February 20, CT findings showed a double lung infection with multiple plaque-like, floc-shaped, glass-like blurring, with a high probability of new crown pneumonia.
原本透析的普仁医院不收确诊或疑似肺炎病人。
The original dialysis hospital did not accept patients with confirmed or suspected pneumonia.
社区把她送到武汉市第九医院，该医院是收治确诊透析病人的定点医院之一。
The community took her to Wuhan's Ninth Hospital, one of the designated hospitals for admitted dialysis patients.
但从20日早上九点一直等到21日晚上，第九医院仍没有安排住院，只说虽有床位，但要等区防疫指挥部的指示。
However, from 9 a.m. on the 20th until the evening of 21 November, the Ninth Hospital still did not arrange hospitalization, saying that although there were beds, they had to wait for the instructions of the district epidemic prevention command.
。
.
姜琲的父亲陪着母亲在医院大厅里坐了两天一夜，不吃不喝，没有药物。
Jiang Zedong's father accompanied his mother in the hospital hall sitting for two days and nights, do not eat, no medicine.
她担心他们熬不住，在21日晚上开始于微博上求助。
Fearing that they would not make it, she began to ask for help on Twitter on the 21st night.
。
.
她没想到，在一小时内，求助的微博阅读量还没到100，就先后收到了三通电话。
She did not expect to receive three calls in an hour before the volume of microblog reading reached 100.
第一通来自志愿者，和她了解了基本情况后，说会和政府的人沟通。
The first one came from volunteers, and after she learned the basics, she said she would communicate with people in the government.
第二通来自武汉市卫健委，说已经核实过她的身份，会找院长给她母亲安排好床位。
The second one, from Wuhan Health Committee, said she had checked her identity and would ask the dean to arrange beds for her mother.
最后一通是市公安局，说看到了网上她的微博求助，也看到有一些留言，希望既然问题已经解决了就删掉。
The last link is the city public security bureau, said she saw online her micro-blog help, but also saw some messages, hope that now that the problem has been resolved to delete.
挂了电话后，姜琲删了这条微博。
After hanging up the phone, Jiang Zang deleted the microblog.
当晚，她的母亲住进了医院的留观病房。
That night, her mother was admitted to the hospice ward.
。
.
疫情暴发以来，各类民间志愿组织的表现突出。
Since the outbreak, various non-governmental voluntary organizations have performed remarkably.
无论在帮助新冠肺炎病人找床位、给医院捐物资、志愿者车队义务配送，还是在解决非冠患者的求助上，都发挥了很大作用。
Whether in helping patients find beds in the new crown pneumonia, donating supplies to hospitals, volunteer convoys, or in solving the problem of non-crowed patients seeking help, much has been done.
。
.
一位不愿具名的公共政策专家对《中国新闻周刊》指出，这一方面反应出中国的民间力量有足够的潜力，另一方面，也是政府指挥调度存在问题的一个侧面体现。
'On the one hand, it reflects the potential of China's civil power, and on the other hand, it is a reflection of the existing problems of government command and control, 'an anonymous public policy expert told China News Weekly.
。
.
在美国外交关系委员会全球卫生问题高级研究员黄严忠看来，这次疫情暴露出的一个最大问题，表面上看是政府的统筹调度有缺陷，本质上，还是中国医改滞后的困境。
According to Huang Yanzhong, a senior researcher on global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, one of the biggest problems exposed by the outbreak appears to be the government's flawed co-ordination and, in essence, its lagging health care reform.
。
.
他对《中国新闻周刊》指出，武汉征收的定点医院中，三甲医院是最主要的力量，资源一旦被征用，肾透析、癌症、白血病等特殊病人群体的治疗就会出现问题，而大量的区县基层医疗机构则无法及时补位。
He told China News Weekly that among the designated hospitals in Wuhan, Sanjia Hospital is the most important force. Once resources are requisitioned, the treatment of special patient groups such as kidney dialysis, cancer and leukaemia will become problematic, while a large number of district and county primary medical institutions will not be able to replace them in time.
在中国，分级诊疗的体系一直没有建立起来，以前一直说要把医疗资源下沉，比如三甲医院和基层的医院搞联合体（医联体），但效果一直不好，老百姓有病还是往三甲医院跑。
In China, a tiered system of care has not been established, and there has been talk of sinking medical resources, such as the triple-A hospital and the basic-level hospital consortium, but the results have been poor, people are ill or running to Sanjia hospital.
造成这种局面的根本原因，不是出在硬件。
The root cause of this situation is not the hardware.
中国现在小一点的医院，包括农村的乡镇卫生院，基本设施都有，最关键的是没有医生，也就是解决人的问题。
There are now smaller hospitals in China, including rural township hospitals, with basic facilities and, crucially, without a doctor, that is to say, to solve human problems.
这种局面，医改十多年基本上没有解决。
This situation has remained largely unresolved for more than a decade.
。
.
“我希望能够通过这一次新冠病毒事件，让这个问题进一步凸显出来，推动医改继续前行。
"I hope that this time around, the new crown virus will bring the issue to the fore and push health care reform forward.
”他说。
'he said.
。
.
黄严忠还指出，医疗资源在肺炎患者和非冠病人之间分配的不均衡，实际上反映出体制性的问题。
Huang also pointed out that the imbalance in the distribution of medical resources between patients with pneumonia and patients without crowns actually reflects systemic problems.
在动员式体制的作用下，自上而下压下来，对地方来说，最重要的是完成上面提出的硬指标，没有指标要求的没人管。
Under the mobilizing system, top-down pressure down, for the local, the most important thing is to complete the above-mentioned hard indicators, no indicator requirements of the nobody.
。
.
专门帮助肾透析患者的平台“肾一样的人”发起人智安对《中国新闻周刊》指出，从1月26日透析病友开始集中爆发起，他联合数家媒体，开始在网上为透析病人发声，希望引起政府的重视。
Since January 26, when dialysis patients began concentrating, Zhian, the founder of Renal-like People, a platform dedicated to patients with kidney dialysis, told China News Weekly. He joined several media outlets and began speaking to dialysis patients online, hoping to get the government's attention.
在各类非冠患者中，孕妇、透析病人属于被关注较早、较多的群体。
Among all types of non-crowns, pregnant women and dialysis patients belong to the earlier and more concerned groups.
。
.
2月4日，在国家卫健委新闻发布会上，卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉就强调，一些血液透析的病人，因为原来就诊的医院被征用作为定点医院了，这部分病人的就医出现了困难。
On 4 February, at a press conference of the National Fitness and Health Commission, the Deputy Director of the Hospital Authority, Jiao Yahui, stressed that some patients with hemodialysis had difficulties in obtaining medical treatment because the hospital they had attended had been requisitioned as a designated hospital.
针对这个问题，要求全国各地在征用定点医院的过程中，一定要把原来就诊的病人登记造册，每一个病人都要给他办理好后续的治疗。
To solve this problem, all over the country in the process of requisitioning designated hospitals, the original patients must be registered and registered, each patient should be given follow-up treatment.
。
.
2月5日，武汉公布了感染病人的定点透析医院，一共有6家，分散在各个区。
On February 5, Wuhan announced the establishment of a dialysis hospital for patients infected with the disease, with six hospitals scattered throughout the districts.
。
.
2月16日，武汉市卫健委再次公布了一份专门的非新冠肺炎患者接诊医院名单。
On February 16, Wuhan Health Commission announced a special list of hospitals for patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
这是武汉官方第一次专门针对“非冠患者”发布通告，主要针对慢性重症患者、孕妇、儿童和透析患者。
The announcement, the first by Wuhan authorities, is aimed at chronically ill patients, pregnant women, children and dialysis patients.
公布的6家医院中，有三家专门针对非冠透析病人。
Three of the six hospitals announced were dedicated to non-dialysis patients.
。
.
两天后，武汉市卫健委又公布了一份更全的名单，分类也更细，涉及急性心脑血管、外伤等急危重症、血液透析、孕产妇、儿童（含新生儿）、恶性肿瘤（含恶性血液病）及慢性疾病等患者。
Two days later, Wuhan city health committee released a more complete list, also more detailed classification, covering acute cardiovascular and cerebrovascular, traumatic and other critical, hemodialysis, maternal, children (including newborns), malignant tumors (including malignant blood diseases) and chronic diseases.
肿瘤患者定点医院第一次进入官方的行政指令中。
For the first time, the oncologist's designated hospital was placed in an official administrative order.
。
.
从两周前开始，张义斐开始失去味觉，吃什么都感觉在嚼沙子。
Starting two weeks ago, Zhang began to lose his sense of taste and was munching on sand.
基本没有口水，喉咙晚上会痛。
Almost no saliva, throat pain at night.
他放疗中断前刚做完第13次，一共33次，算是中前期。
He had just finished his 13th radiotherapy, 33 times, which is the middle and early stage.
对放疗患者而言，越到后期，痛苦越强。
For radiotherapy patients, the more advanced the pain, the stronger the pain.
他认识的一些病友脖子开始一块块脱皮，满嘴都是口腔溃疡，舌头上都是泡，张嘴都困难，只能吃流食，有的还要先喷麻药再吃，一些大老爷们都哭。
Some of the sick people he knew began to have skin peeling around their necks, mouth sores and sores on their tongues, making it difficult to open their mouths.
这些都是放疗的后遗症，一般结束后半年到一年左右会慢慢消失。
These are the sequelae of radiation therapy, usually after half a year to a year or so will slowly disappear.
病友都想快点熬过去，但现在中断了，只能回家拖着。
The sick man wanted to get through it quickly, but now it was broken off and he had to go home and put it off.
。
.
大多数化疗患者都会在体内置一根外周中心静脉导管。
In most patients with chemotherapy, a peripheral central venous catheter is placed inside the body.
张义斐的有36厘米长，从右手的手臂直接插到心脏大动脉，方便长期输入化疗药。
Zhang Yifu's 36-centimeter-long, straight arm from the right hand into the heart artery, facilitating long-term entry of chemotherapy drugs.
每周要维护一次，比如换针头，换导管，消毒。
Maintain it once a week, such as changing needles, changing catheters, disinfecting.
到2月18日，已经是第七天，他仍找不到医院维护。
By 18 February, the seventh day, he was still unable to find hospital maintenance.
后来他听说普仁医院可以做，但离他住的地方有十几公里，只能靠社区派车送他。
Later he heard that Puren Hospital could do it, but he lived a dozen kilometers away and had to be sent by car from the community.
18日，社区突然说车出不了区。
On the 18th, the community suddenly said the car could not get out.
就在这天，武汉所有私家车之前发的通行证都作废。
On this day, Wuhan all private cars issued before the pass is invalid.
19日，他花500元找了个私家车送他到普仁，换了管。
19, he spent 500 yuan to find a private car to send him to Puren, changed the tube.
。
.
黄葵的母亲患有恶性淋巴瘤，她没有让母亲置管，就是听说很多病友出院后找不到更换的地方。
The mother of the anemone has malignant lymphoma. She did not let her mother take care of it.
和张义斐一样，她母亲原本也在协和肿瘤住院，第一期化疗结束后出院，因为疫情原因，无法再入院。
Like Zhang Yifi, her mother was hospitalized in Concorde's tumor and was discharged after the first chemotherapy treatment. She could not be hospitalized because of the outbreak.
看到武汉市公布的名单后，她看到湖北省肿瘤医院可以收治。
After seeing the list published by Wuhan, she saw that the Hubei Province Oncology Hospital could receive treatment.
于是赶紧去挂号，19日，医生说这几天不行，肿瘤科有感染，正在消毒，医护不够，药也不够。
So hastened to register, 19, the doctor said these days can not, oncology department has infection, is disinfection, inadequate medical care, medicine is not enough.
她每天给肿瘤科打电话，说自己的情况，21日一早，收到医院的通知，说有一张床位，让她马上来。
She called the oncology department every day to tell her about herself. Early on the 21st, she received a notification from the hospital that there was a bed for her to come at once.
21日，黄葵的母亲顺利入院。
21, the mother of the anemone was admitted to hospital.
她猜测，除了自己联系频繁以外，她母亲此前只化疗了一期，比较好重新调配方案，也是医院可能的考量之一。
In addition to her frequent contacts, she speculated that her mother had received only one course of chemotherapy, which was a good option for redeployment and a possible consideration for the hospital.
。
.
三天后，她的母亲化疗第一期结束后要再次出院，下一次，她是否还有这么好的运气，她不知道。
Three days later, her mother was discharged from the hospital again after the first phase of chemotherapy, and the next time she was so lucky, she did not know.
“走一步算一步，先度过今天再说。
"" One step at a time, until you get through the day.
我们就像战争里的人，谁也不知道明天会发生什么。
We are like people in war, and no one knows what will happen tomorrow.
”她对《中国新闻周刊》说。
"she told China News Weekly.
。
.
21日晚上，姜琲把母亲送进病房后，已经是夜里10点，她跑出来找吃的，只买到了一箱泡面。
On the evening of the 21st, Jiang Zheng sent his mother to the ward. It was 10 p. m. She ran out to look for food and only bought a box of noodles.
第二天中午，她捧着泡面，找到一个偏僻的绿化带，蹲在路边吃。
The next day at noon, she took the bubble, found a remote green belt, squatting on the roadside to eat.
她不会预计到，第二天，母亲的核酸结果出来，是阳性，她和父亲马上被送去隔离。
She would not have expected that the next day her mother's nucleic acid turned out to be positive and she and her father were immediately isolated.
但母亲无法自理，说话只有她和父亲听得懂。
But the mother could not take care of herself, and only she and her father could understand.
。
.
23日，张义斐收到主治医生的电话，说协和肿瘤中心开放化疗，但放疗仍不行，建议他回来住院，多加一期化疗。
Zhang Yifu received a call from his doctor on March 23, saying that chemotherapy was available at the Concorde Cancer Center, but radiation was still not available.
24日下午，他顺利住上了院。
On the afternoon of the 24th, he was admitted to the hospital successfully.
。
.
从22日起，同济、协和以及省肿瘤开始收病人的消息就在各病友群流传，但收治情况仍不稳定。
From 22 onwards, Tongji, Concorde and the provincial tumor began to receive patients began to spread throughout the group, but the treatment situation is still unstable.
张义斐告诉《中国新闻周刊》，必须要收到主治的通知，才有资格重新入院。
Zhang told China News Weekly that he had to be notified of the ruling to be eligible for re-admission.
和他同期的一些病友，很多人并没有收到通知。
Many of his fellow patients had not been notified.
同济和省肿瘤的情况也是类似，很多患者反映住不进去。
Tongji and provincial tumors are similar, with many patients reporting inability to enter.
。
.
一位家住湖北省随州市下辖某村的脑瘤患者对《中国新闻周刊》说，放疗中断后，她回到家里，医生开的化疗药已经中断近一个月。
A brain tumor patient living in a village in Suizhou, Hubei province, told China News Weekly that she had returned home after the interruption of radiation therapy and that the chemotherapy prescribed by her doctor had been suspended for nearly a month.
从腊月二十九开始，她所在的村就彻底封锁，村口被设了路障，有人全天把守，不许进出。
Since the 29th of December, her village has been completely sealed off, with roadblocks at the entrance and round-the-clock security.
村民已经和外界完全隔绝，更别提买药。
Villagers have been cut off from the outside world, not to mention buying medicine.
因为手术，她被剃了平头，现在一层薄薄的发茬已经长出，紧贴着头皮，下面，一个碗口大的褐色伤疤仍昭然可见。
As a result of the surgery, she had her head shaved, and now a thin layer of hair had grown up close to her scalp, and a large brown scar was visible below.
此刻，她更关心生活用品用完了怎么办。
At the moment, she was more concerned about running out of supplies.
。
.
上海市公共卫生临床咨询专家缪晓辉告诉《中国新闻周刊》，像糖尿病、高血压、冠心病等慢性病和恶性肿瘤患者，复查和有效治疗，是很迫切的，政府要思考，如何让病人看得上病。
It is imperative that patients with chronic and malignant diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and coronary heart disease are reviewed and effectively treated, and that the government needs to think about how patients can get sick, Shanghai public health clinical consultant Miao Xiaohui told China News Weekly.
。
.
黄严忠也建议，目前重点要解决两个问题，病人看病难和药物的可及性问题。
Huang also suggested that the current focus should be on two issues, patient care and drug accessibility.
地方政府首先应该通过发文、领导督促、纠正此前的一些做法，落实到具体的行动上来。
Local governments should, first of all, follow through by sending letters, urging their leaders to correct previous practices and translating them into concrete actions.
。
.
他说，武汉现在就像一根弦，如果绷得太紧的话，可能会断。
Wuhan, he said, is now like a string, if the tension is too tight, may break.
“我觉得，差不多到极限。
"I think it's almost to the limit.
”。
"
（为保护受访者隐私，文中张义斐、王德昌、王朗、姜琲、黄葵为化名。
(To protect the privacy of the interviewee, Zhang Yifu, Wang Dechang, Wang Lang, Jiang Zang and Huang Gang are aliases.
）返回搜狐，查看更多 。
) Go back to Sohu for more information.
责任编辑：。
Responsible Editor:.
$('#tipInfo').text('已实名回应');。
$(& apos; # tipInfo & apos;). text (& apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
声明：该文观点仅代表作者本人，搜狐号系信息发布平台，搜狐仅提供信息存储空间服务。
Statement: This article only represents the author, Sohu is the information dissemination platform, Sohu only provides information storage space services.
。
.
张义斐。
Zhang Yifi.
王德昌。
Wang Dechang.
协和肿瘤中心。
Concorde Oncology Centre.
患者。
Patients.
王朗。
Wang Lang.
阅读 (247)。
Read (247).
我来说两句0人参与，0条评论。
Let me say two words about 0 people and zero comments.
来说两句吧……。
Say a word or two.
快速登录：。
Quick login:.
登录并发表。
Log in and publish.
评论不能为空！。
Comments cannot be empty.
搜狐“我来说两句” 用户公约。
Sohu "Let me talk about" user convention.
该评论已关闭！。
The review has been closed.
选择举报类型。
Select the type of report.
营销广告。
Marketing advertising.
淫秽色情。
Pornography.
恶意攻击谩骂。
Malicious attacks and insults.
其他。
Other.
提交。
Submitted.
取消。
Cancelled.
实名认证。
Authentication of real names.
小狐提醒您：。
Little fox reminds you:
应国家法律要求，使用互联网服务需完成实名验证。
Access to Internet services is subject to real-name verification, as required by national law.
为保障您账号的正常使用，请尽快完成手机验证，感谢您的理解和支持！。
To ensure the normal use of your account, please complete the mobile phone verification as soon as possible, thank you for your understanding and support.
确定。
Definitely.
推荐阅读。
Recommended reading.
推荐。
Recommendation.
狐观医改。
Fox View Health Reform.
医生。
Doctor.
生命科学。
Life sciences.
谢谢。
Thank you.
高血压。
Hypertension.
患者救助。
Patient assistance.
糖尿病。
Diabetes.
针灸科。
Acupuncture plus moxibustion.
心脏病。
Heart disease.
风湿病科。
Rheumatology department.
就医帮。
Get medical help.
心血管科。
Cardiovascular Department.
刷新中..。
Update in..
您有未读新闻，点击查看。
You have unread news, click View.
钟南山谈核酸复阳：通常病人不会再感染，要防止传染别人。
Zhong Nan Shan talk about nucleic acid resuscitation: usually the patient won't infect again, want to prevent infect others.
新京报。
Beijing News.
下夜班感觉很疲惫却失眠了，想睡又睡不着的感觉难受极了… | 天使日记。
Feeling tired but sleepless at night, I've never slept at all... & # 45; & # 45; Angel Diary.
中国之声。
Voice of China.
女生不想和你聊天怎么办？学会这三招，让她天天主动找你聊天。
Girls do not want to talk with you how to do? Learn these three tips, let her take the initiative to chat with you every day.
无痕。
No trace.
今天 04:44。
Today is 04: 44.
武汉传来大消息：治疗有效率达90%，所有确诊患者吃中药！。
Wuhan sent big news: treatment effectiveness of up to 90%, all confirmed patients take Chinese medicine!
牧心小镇。
Pastoral town.
小说：董事长见到窝囊女婿，竟点头哈腰喊少爷，妻子和岳母都惊呆了。
Novels: the chairman saw the son-in-law, actually bow down to call young master, his wife and mother-in-law are stunned.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
【关注】广州首例死亡病例：因大出血抢救无效，不是肺的问题。
The first case of death in Guangzhou: It's not a lung problem, it's ineffective because of massive bleeding.
羊城晚报。
Yangcheng Evening News.
武汉训斥医护人员患者道歉 39床离世患者亲属这样说。
Wuhan scolded medical personnel for apologizing to relatives of 39 deceased patients said.
哈哈怪谈。
Ha ha!
​最狠打脸！举国抗击疫情的都是公立医院，那些民营私人医院去哪儿了？。
Jade most cruel face! The whole country to fight the epidemic are public hospitals, those private hospitals where?
张殿伟频道。
Zhang Dianwei Channel.
退休副厅长“非厅级病房不住”事件反转？社区书记讲述事件细节。
Retired deputy director of the "non-hall ward" incident reverses? The community secretary recounts the details of the incident.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
6000元都不敢要的翡翠原石，从设计到雕刻，成品价值瞬间翻了100倍！！。
6000 yuan do not dare to ask for emerald stone, from design to sculpture, the value of the finished product instantaneously increased 100 times!!
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
刚刚，从黄石定点医院传来的消息。
Just now, it came from the Yellow Stone Ding Hospital.
东楚晚报。
Eastern Chu Evening News.
“我们不想活？”电话里崩溃咆哮的武汉医生，到底经历了什么。
"We don't want to live?" What happened to the roaring Wuhan doctor on the phone.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
珠海首个死亡新冠肺炎确诊患者：曾使用“魔肺”治疗一度转危为安。
Zhuhai's first confirmed case of death from New Crown Pneumonia: He had been treated with "magic lung" for a time.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
列为“一级致癌物”的2种水果，医生从不吃，已多人中招。
Classified as "carcinogen level 1" 2 kinds of fruit, doctors never eat, many people have been admitted.
路子云云视界。
Way cloud cloud horizon.
今天 03:23。
Today is 03: 23.
首份新冠危重患者特征研究发布：来自金银潭医院52个病例。
First New Crown Critical Patient Profile Study: 52 Cases from Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
观察者网。
Network of Observers.
八方驰援·广西支援十堰 医疗队队长林剑勇：用心治疗 用情沟通。
Eight-Fang assistance Guangxi support Shiyan medical team leader Lin Jianyong: Careful treatment with emotional communication.
附院家健康。
Affiliate home health.
27日发布会丨重庆：出院病人到指定场所进行14天集中康复。
27-day launch into Chongqing: discharge patients to a designated site for 14 days of intensive rehabilitation.
上游新闻。
Upstream news.
【战“疫”日记】眼科教授17年后再当“住院医师”。
Diary of the Plague Ophthalmology professor will be a resident after 17 years.
人民网。
People's Network.
抗“疫”朋友圈① | 朱文娟：相信不久就可以看到胜利的曙光。
Zhu Wenjuan: I believe we shall soon see the light of victory.
红网。
Red net.
是她！果断拦下云南省第1例新冠肺炎确诊病例 现场惊心动魄…。
It was her! The scene of the first confirmed case of Newly Coronary Pneumonia in Yunnan Province was breathtaking...
珠江网。
Pearl River Network.
今天 04:15。
Today is 04: 15.
上海援鄂医生：与非典、埃博拉比，新冠病毒是最棘手的病毒 | 疫中人⑯。
Dr. Shanghai Aid: With SARS and Ebola, the new crown virus is the most troublesome disease at service.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
昨天 02:36。
Yesterday at 02: 36.
回家后要洗头吗？鞋底要消毒吗？很多人都不知道！。
Want to wash a hair after going home? Should sole disinfect? A lot of people don't know!
上海本地宝。
Shanghai local treasure.
今天 03:59。
Today is 03: 59.
广告。
Advertising.
今天 4:58。
Today is 4: 58.
个别新冠肺炎出院患者复检转阳，别慌！不代表疾病复发了。
The patient of discharge of individual new crown pneumonitis rechecks turn positive, do not panic! Does not represent the disease recurrence.
中国之声。
Voice of China.
首份新冠危重患者特征研究发布：来自金银潭医院52个病例。
First New Crown Critical Patient Profile Study: 52 Cases from Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
战疫者｜武汉医护夫妻：我们只是千万抗疫夫妻中平凡的一对。
2007-2-1 00: 00 War blight, Wuhan Healthcare Husband and wife: We are just an ordinary couple of ten million anti-epidemic couples.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
火线 | 叫“肺炎”其实轻视了这种疾病——专访北京协和医院刘正印教授。
Rail & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
首批9例重症患者血浆抗体治疗效果显著。
Plasma antibody therapy was effective in the first 9 patients with severe diseases.
金融界。
The financial world.
科技部明确：这个70年的老药有疗效！。
Ministry of Science and Technology: This 70-year-old medicine is effective!
健康陕西发布。
Healthy Shaanxi release.
武汉日记：“光哥”的两个标签。
Wuhan Diary: "Guang Gang" two labels.
人民网。
People's Network.
上海连续2天0新增！口罩还要戴多久？张文宏医生这样说！。
Shanghai 2 days in a row to add new! How long will the mask wear? Dr. Zhang Wenhong said.
上海本地宝。
Shanghai local treasure.
今天 03:59。
Today is 03: 59.
抗疫一线｜“工作中的事多做一点，就等于多学一点”。
less than a little bit more at work, is as much as learning more.
濮阳网。
Pu Yang net.
“放心，我们绝不会多留你的”。
Don't worry, we won't keep you any longer.
人民网。
People's Network.
58岁再次出征，曾获抗击“非典”先进个人。
58-year-old battle again, won the fight against "SARS" advanced individuals.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
北京一医院出现聚集性疫情，确诊34例，院长：深感内疚痛心。
A hospital in Beijing has a concentrated epidemic and 34 cases have been diagnosed. Dean: I feel very guilty and sad.
每日经济新闻。
Daily economic news.
美国发现首例与已知病例无关联的新品病毒病例。
The United States has found its first case of a new strain of virus unrelated to known cases.
金融界。
The financial world.
武汉一线医生：他视我为"救命稻草",我必须救他！。
Wuhan First-Line Doctor: He saw me as & quot; & quot; & quot; I must save him!
中新网海南频道。
CHINA NEW NETWORK Hainan Channel.
国家卫健委、中医药管理局：中西医结合救治新冠肺炎，推荐使用“清肺排毒汤”。
National Health Commission, Chinese Medicine Authority: Chinese and Western medicine combined treatment of new crown pneumonia, the use of "Qingfei Detoxification Soup" is recommended.
新玉书坊。
Xinyu Shu Fang.
中国疾控中心专家：确诊病例发病前两天已有传染性，接触者也需隔离。
China CDC expert: two days before the confirmed cases have been infectious, contacts also need to be isolated.
新华每日电讯。
Xinhua Daily Telegraph.
小区、医院门口体温检测点，超过多少度要被带走或隔离？有没有人被带走？在哪里隔离？...。
District, the hospital door temperature testing point, more than a few degrees to be taken away or isolated? Has anyone been taken away? Where isolation?...
浙医在线。
Zhejiang Medicine Online.
武汉医生敢死队：高危90秒与病毒源最近，最怕晚上ICU插管。
Wuhan doctor dare death team: high-risk 90 seconds and the source of the virus, most afraid of night ICU intubation.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
为什么中医药能在抗“疫”中发挥重要作用。
Why Chinese medicine can play an important role in the fight against plague.
医药新闻点。
Medical news point.
今天 02:11。
Today is 02: 11.
首份新冠危重患者特征研究发布：来自金银潭医院52个病例。
First New Crown Critical Patient Profile Study: 52 Cases from Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
【抗疫一线】致敬！抗疫勇士，英雄事迹让人泪目。
A Tribute to the Struggle Against the Epidemic! Great deeds are a tear-jerker.
泉州医界。
Quanzhou Medical.
口述｜确诊、治愈、献血浆、返岗，一位武汉护士抗疫的39天。
Oral, diagnosis, cure, plasma, back to work, a Wuhan nurse against the disease 39 days.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
一线医护日记（47）“等病好了，我做面窝、热干面给你吃！”。
First-line medical diary (47) "When I get well, I'll make noodles, hot and dry noodles for you to eat!"
光明网。
Hanukkah.
北京院感专家进驻汉口医院的18天。
Beijing hospital sensory experts to enter Hankou Hospital for 18 days.
健康报。
Health News.
【90后正担当 00后正成长】毫不犹豫，他们签下请战书！。
After 90 they are growing up after 00. Without hesitation, they sign the letter of invitation!
濮阳市广播电视台。
Pu Yang Municipal Radio and Television.
和天使一起的日子。
The day with the angels.
红网永州站。
Red net Yongzhou Station.
山东现货一次性防护服口罩灭菌机杀毒设备生产线厂家库存。
Shandong spot disposable protective clothing mask sterilizer antiseptic machine production line inventory.
立威微波。
Levi microwave.
今天 04:53。
Today is 04: 53.
浙江现货口罩无纺布灭菌设备哪家强？山东立微口罩消毒机满足您的需求。
Zhejiang spot mask non-woven sterilization equipment which strong? Shandong vertical micro-mask disinfector to meet your needs.
立威微波。
Levi microwave.
今天 04:55。
Today is 04: 55.
幽默笑话：你们不看我，怎么知道非洲野猫长什么样子啊。
How do you know what an African wildcat looks like without looking at me?
漫漫笑。
A long smile.
疫情期间，去医院就诊有哪些注意事项？。
During epidemic period, what notice to go to the hospital to see a doctor?
健康与养生。
Health and wellness.
记者专访国家卫健委专家组成员、首位浙江驰援武汉医生郑霞：金银潭医...。
The reporter interviewed the expert group member of national health committee, the first Zhejiang to help Wuhan doctor Zheng Xia: gold, silver and pond medicine...
央广网。
CCBA.
昨天 04:23。
Yesterday at 04: 23.
治了病，暖了心！福建美小护武汉病区里开起揉肺经课堂！。
Treated the disease, warms the heart! Fujian Meixiaohe Wuhan sick area started to knead the lung classics class!
福建广播新闻频道。
Fujian Radio News Channel.
贡献自己的一份力量，把热闹还给武汉。
Contribute one's own strength, return the bustle to Wuhan.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
战“疫”一线哈市第一医院实行24小时门禁管理，严禁探视。
The first hospital on the first line of the epidemic implemented a 24-hour ban on visits.
哈尔滨新闻网。
Harbin News Network.
搜狐健康·课 | 首钢医院顾晋院长：疫情期间，肠癌患者后续治疗咋办？。
Sohu Health & # # 124; & # 44; Head of Shougang Hospital: What about follow-up treatment for bowel cancer patients during the outbreak?
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
湖北官员无端训斥医护人员被停职 网友：加一条：责成打扫医院厕所一年。
Hubei officials gratuitously reprimanded medical staff suspended netizens: Add one: clean hospital toilets for a year.
哈哈怪谈。
Ha ha!
新冠“零号病人”到底是谁？为什么一定要找到TA？。
Who is the new crown "zero patient" after all? Why must find TA?
黑猩猩智库。
Chimpanzee think tanks.
致全县人民的一封信。
A letter to the whole county.
祁县卫生计生。
Qi County Health Family Planning.
今天 02:03。
Today is 02: 03.
德国确诊第19例新冠肺炎患者。
The 19th case of Newly Coronary Pneumonia was diagnosed in Germany.
环球网。
World Wide Web.
武汉、成都出现“治愈患者复发”？官方回应来了。
Wuhan, Chengdu appeared "cure patient relapse"? The official response came.
广州日报。
Guangzhou Daily News.
防控新冠疫情，古代人防疫的五种办法，有那些到现在还有效？。
Prevention and control of the new crown epidemic, ancient people epidemic prevention of the five methods, which is still effective?
小红姐的产房故事。
Little red sister's delivery room story.
樱花开放时，脱去防护服与他们拥抱。
Take off your protective clothing and hug the cherry blossoms as they open.
南方都市报。
Southern Metropolis Daily.
除了楼房和病人什么也没有，但王贺胜对他说：老陆，这一仗你们必须打赢。
There was nothing but buildings and patients, but Wang He-sheng said to him: Lu, you must win this battle.
北方网。
Northern Network.
昨天 00:09。
Yesterday at 00: 09.
疫情期间感冒发热，必须得去医院，怎么办？。
During epidemic period cold fevers, must have to go to the hospital, how to do?
悦居防水。
It is waterproof and pleasant.
国家卫健委：出院后复检阳性患者未再发现传染人现象。
National Fitness Commission: After discharge from hospital re-examination positive patients did not find the phenomenon of human transmission.
黑龙江新闻网。
Heilongjiang News Network.
今天 02:48。
Today is 02: 48.
新冠肺炎死亡患者有什么特征？JAMA分析了138例患者……。
What are the characteristics of death from Newcomb Pneumonia? JAMA analyzed 138 patients...
华恩健康生活。
Wayne has a healthy life.
做好这5件事，远离糖尿病！。
Do these 5 things well and stay away from diabetes!
肾医王铁民。
Kidney doctor Wang Tiemin.
今天 04:22。
Today is 04: 22.
治愈4名重症患者，上海用了两大“利器”。
Healing 4 serious patients, Shanghai used two "sharp tools."
环球网。
World Wide Web.
清零！汕尾市最后一名新冠肺炎患者治愈出院。
Cure zero! Shanwei City the last new crown pneumonia patient cured discharged.
汕尾手机台。
Shanwei Mobile Phone Station.
今天 04:26。
Today is 04: 26.
最近，我无师自通了40个专有名词。
Recently, I learned 40 proper nouns by myself.
今天 03:40。
Today is 03: 40.
华生：SARS过后不到十七年，我们就两次掉进了同一条河流。
PHIL WATSON: Less than seventeen years after SARS, we fell into the same river twice.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
A Biottle美肌波特，让你的肌肤时刻在线。
A Biottle Muscle Porter keeps your skin online all the time.
唐唐谈热点。
Tang Tang talks about hot spots.
今天 03:36。
Today is 03: 36.
“武汉这几天很冷，但是我们的团队很暖。
Wuhan has been very cold these days, but our team is warm.
”。
"
人民网。
People's Network.
昨天 04:02。
Yesterday at 04: 02.
复阳不等于疾病复发 海南疾控专家回应为何会出现“复阳”患者。
Fuyang is not equal to the recurrence of disease Hainan disease experts to respond to the emergence of "Fuyang" patients.
搜狐焦点海南站。
Sohu Focus Hainan Station.
今天 04:00。
Today at 04: 00.
新冠肺炎 | 江夏方舱医院第一批患者出院，看出院前如何为他们消毒？。
NEW GUAN Pneumonia & # # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
中泰专家新冠肺炎疫情防控和诊治经验远程交流会召开。
China and Thailand experts in the new crown pneumonia epidemic prevention, treatment and treatment experience remote exchange meeting convened.
民生观察网。
Minsheng Watch Network.
今天 04:34。
Today is 04: 34.
小学生作文让老师脸红，爸爸“没脸”见人，网友：别啥都让孩子看。
Primary school students make teachers blush, father "no face" to see people, netizens: don't let children see everything.
健康小宝宝。
Healthy baby.
今天 04:16。
Today is 04: 16.
科学家创建手持式3D打印机  通过“生物支架”治疗骨骼肌损伤。
Scientists have created hand-held 3D printers that treat skeletal muscle damage with "biological scaffolds."
今天 03:51。
Today is 03: 51.
【速看】武汉寄来的快递能收吗？关于新冠病毒20个真相你要知道！。
Can the express from Wuhan be collected? You should know 20 truth about the new crown virus.
龙眼直播。
Live dragon eyes.
盖茨顶级医学期刊撰文谈新冠：全球领导人当立即行动刻不容缓。
Writing in the Gates Top Medical Journal: It's imperative that global leaders act now.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
今天 04:37。
Today is 04: 37.
加载更多。
Load more.
已经到底了。
It's over.
小狐找不到新闻了，请下拉重试吧～～。
Fox can not find the news, please pull down and try again.
热门图集。
Hot atlas.
北大教授李玲重磅发声：疫情危急，公立医院救了中国！。
Li Ling, a professor at Peking University, said: The outbreak is critical. Public hospitals have saved China.
下夜班感觉很疲惫却失眠了，想睡又睡不着的感觉难受极了… | 天使日记。
Feeling tired but sleepless at night, I've never slept at all... & # 45; & # 45; Angel Diary.
【关注】广州首例死亡病例：因大出血抢救无效，不是肺的问题。
The first case of death in Guangzhou: It's not a lung problem, it's ineffective because of massive bleeding.
北大教授李玲重磅发声：疫情危急，公立医院救了中国！。
Li Ling, a professor at Peking University, said: The outbreak is critical. Public hospitals have saved China.
下夜班感觉很疲惫却失眠了，想睡又睡不着的感觉难受极了… | 天使日记。
Feeling tired but sleepless at night, I've never slept at all... & # 45; & # 45; Angel Diary.
刚刚，从黄石定点医院传来的消息。
Just now, it came from the Yellow Stone Ding Hospital.
新冠肺炎 | 广东14%出院患者出现“复阳”...。
NEW GUANGZHOU Pneumonia & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
八方驰援·广西支援十堰 医疗队队长林剑勇...。
Eight-Fang assistance Guangxi support Shiyan medical team leader Lin Jianyong...
漫威最美亚洲脸，一点都不比汪可盈差。
Manway is the most beautiful Asian face, no less than Wang Keying.
24小时热文。
24-hour heat.
湖南厅官受贿数额特别巨大被审查起诉！同乡卖官搞权色...。
Hunan magistrate bribery amount is particularly huge be examined and prosecuted! Commissary engaged in power...
14万 阅读。
Read 140,000.
搜狐新社交产品内测倒计时，仅剩128个名额，速戳。
Sohu new social product inside the measurement countdown, only 128 places left, quick stamp.
120万 阅读。
1.2m reading.
铜川市政法委原书记李志强被双开：阅读诬蔑党和国家领...。
Li Zhiqiang, former secretary of the Tongchuan Municipal Political and Law Commission, was dubbed: reading calumny party and state leadership...
13万 阅读。
130,000 readings.
面对新冠病毒，究竟是民主关天还是人命关天？。
In the face of the new crown virus, is democracy closed or life is at stake?
19万 阅读。
Read 190,000.
山东一落马副厅被公诉：与商人老板勾肩搭背。
Shandong a drop horse deputy hall is prosecuted: with businessman boss back-up.
3.6万 阅读。
36,000 readings.
搜狐号推荐。
Sohu recommended.
健识局。
Health Bureau.
达人有见识，君子有健识！健识局 深耕医药领域，权威政策解读、独家产业观察。
Talent has insight, gentleman has health! Health Bureau deep cultivation of the medical field, authoritative policy interpretation, exclusive industrial observation.
。
.
丁香医生。
Dr. Lilac.
专业、好玩、有态度。
Professionally, playfully and with attitude.
丁香医生，新一代大众健康媒体。
Dr. Lilac, a new generation of mass health media.
。
.
漫说健康。
Talk about health.
用漫画阐述健康，让医学也能性感起来！。
Elaborate health with caricature, make medicine also can sexy!
搜狐健康。
Sohu Health.
搜狐健康官方账号。
Sohu health official account number.
健康界。
Health sector.
为了更好的医疗健康服务。
For better health care.
联系我们。
Contact us.
返回首页。
Back to front page.
用户反馈。
User feedback.
免费获取。
Free access.
今日搜狐热点。
Sohu hot spot today.
6秒后。
In six seconds.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
今日推荐。
Recommended today.
进入搜狐首页。
Go to Sohu Home.
意见反馈。
Feedback from Parties.
账号密码登录。
Account number password login.
手机动态码登录。
Mobile phone dynamic code login.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
下次自动登录找回密码。
Automatic login to retrieve the password next time.
注册。
Registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
下次自动登录。
Automatic login next time.
找回密码。
Retrieve the password.
注册。
Registration.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
为保证您的账户安全，建议您绑定手机号码。
To keep your account secure, it is recommended that you bind your mobile phone number.
请输入正确的登录账号或密码。
Please enter the correct login account or password.
获取动态码。
Gets the dynamic code.
收不到短信验证码？点击获取 语音验证码。
Unable to receive SMS authentication code? Click to get a voice authentication code.
安全提示。
Safety Tips.
系统出于安全考虑，在点击“发送语音验证码”后，您将会收到一条来自950开头号码的语音验证码，请注意接听。
For security reasons, you will receive a voice authentication code from the 950's opening number after clicking "Send Voice Authentication Code."
。
.
暂不发送发送语音验证码。
Temporarily does not send the voice authentication code.
手机注册。
Mobile phone registration.
邮箱注册。
Mailbox registration.
获取验证码。
Get the authentication code.
同意《搜狐服务协议》。
Agree to Sohu Service Agreement.
使用已有账号登录。
Login with an existing account.
try{console.log("执行成功")。
try {console.log; performed successfully and quot;)
title: "疫情次生灾害： “非冠”患者的求生",。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
//adData_fd用于abtest。
/ / adData _ fd for abtest.
'<span><em class="icon err-js-icon"></em>JS加载错误，请重新加载。
& amp; apos; & ltd; span & gt; em class = & quot; icon err-js-icon & quot; & gt; & lt; / em & gt; JS loading error, please reload.
</span>' +。
Ritual; / span & gt; & apos; +.
'><em class="icon-cached"></em>刷新</a></div>';。
& apos; & gt; em class = 'class5' >; icon-cached & quot; & gt; & gt; / em & gt; Refresh & lt; / a & gt; a & ltd; / div & gt; & apos;;
console.error("发生错误",e);。
Console. error; & quot; & quot; e);
